.Interha?l -page 6 

VOL XVI, NO. 33 an mdependent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1981 

By MICHELE DIETZ 
News Staff 
Don Murday, Student Body Presi­dent, informed Student Senate mem­bers last night that the academic calender for the 1982-83 year can­not be changed, thereby preventing the resolution for two extra registra­tion and/or study days for that year being passed. 
Murday met with Assistant Provost Sr. john Miriam jones and Chuck Russo, academic commis­sioner of student government, and discoven~d that although the 1982­83 calender is set, the 1983-84 calender can possibly be changed to incorporate the resolution passed last Monday. 
There is, however, a possibility of allowing students to return one day earlier in August, 1982, reflecting a major concern of the HPC over the lack of time students are allowed to move into rooms and unpack. The Senate will work towards adding the 
'Legal' drug trafficgrows 
Coffeehouse future uncertain 
Calendar resolution too late 
Administration pushes to save Saudi AWACS sale 
LEWISTOWN, l'a. (AI') -A haircut will cost you S3. 'iO in David Spcdu's barbershop on the square. For 1120 more, he'll sell you a bottle of 1,000 stimulant l'apsules. 
All the tirst-tloor windows of Mayor William Cham­berlain's home were coven:d with hardened plastic months before the first frost. The stuff is designed to rept:lthe fon:e ofa .32 caliber bullet. 
The two-story brick and stone house just outside the town limits has a cinderblock room built on the rear. It's loaded with boxes ofstimulant pills. By the door a sign with skull and 
crossbones 
warns, "No reportl·rs, press or others ofsuch nature. You will 

be removed!" 
Welcome to Lewistown, the central Pennsylvania city that law enforcement officials call the look-alike drug capital ofthe nation. 
Capsules packed with the non-prescription stimulants caffeine, ephedrine and phenylpropanolamine -the latter two widely used in antihistamines -are manufactured in the Mifflin County area. That's legal. 
They're packaged in this area and sold here in bottles of I,000 and I 00. That's legal, too. All a person needs to get a license from the state is a S2'i check that won't bounce. 
The capsules may contain up to 'iOO milligrams of stimulant, compared with the 7'i-1 00 mg in a typical over-the-counter caft'einc stimulant. And the drugstore variety do not contain ephedrine and phenylpropanolamine. 
The distributors.say the capsules are for usc as dieting aids or to improve alertness, but law enforcement au­thorities say they are being sold individually to teenagers. 
Some teens mistakenly think they're getting illegal amphetamines. Some know better but still take 30 at a time to get a high. Nationwide, 12 deaths have been blamed on look-alike overdoses. But it's all legal. 
lllinois Assistant Attorney General Larry Ramey has filed civil law suits against 28 look-alike distributors, including seven in Pennsylvania, accusing them of violating the Illinois Consumer Fraud Act and using deceptive trade practices in literature and advertise­ments run in the state. 
"By far, that area between Lewistown and State Col­lege has the largest concentration of look-alike distributors and dealers than anywhere in the nation," Ramey said. 
jack Ogun, director of the Pennsylvania Division of Drugs, said Mifflin Country has 70 look-alike dis­tributors. 
In the corridors of Lewistown High School, six ofthe stimulant capsules will cost you at least $1, maybe as much as $3. 
"You can get anything you want like that anywhere in the school. Everyone knows that," one neatly dressed senior told a reporter asking questions in a psychology class with teacherJack Thompson looking on. 
One boy, a junior with short hair, spoke with the reporter in a hallway with Principal james Schnell present. He calmly explained how "around the high school, it's mostly look-alikcs that are sold. Out in the streets, it's a different story." 
Because you can't tell the difference between the caf­feine capsules and the hard drugs, the Mifflin County School District has banned all drugs not first approved by the school nurse. 
"I'm talking even about throat lozenges," Schnell said. "The kids and parents have shown a good attitude about it." 
Chamberlain, the Lewistown mayor, is a vocal op­ponent of the look-alike industry. He's also a dentist who now packs a weapon. 
After telling the police to arrest look-alike dis­tributors and retailers who verbally abuse officers, his house was splashed with paint three times. 
The fourth time a man who described himself as a 
"caffeine salesman" was arrested and pleaded guilty to 
the vandalism. 
"People here are afraid of those men," Chamberlain said. "I'm not scared, but I never thought I'd have to go get a permit to carry a gun either." 
Chamberlain installed S1,500 worth of reinforced 
plastic on his windows after police said informants had 
warned them that his house would be firebombed. 
Look-alike distributors and retailers in Lewistown say they arc wrongly blamed for the increase in street sales of the capsules. 
"I can understand the people's point of view, but we don't deserve to be called the names we're called. That's a legal substance in those capsules," said drug. wholesaler Dale Herto. 
"l have mailing lists, I'm getting into homes. l don't sell to teenagers. I've got people in their 60s buying this for weight loss." 
Proposed state regulations would ban the manufacture of any capsule or pill that resembles a prescription drug. Would th;,tt upset Herto? 
"Sure I'd care. l went to a lot of trouble having my own special capsule made up." 
What color is it? 
"Black." 
Any special reason? 
Herto searched for words for about 25 seconds. 
"It just looks better." 
Black is the color of a popular prescription am­
phetamine sold illegally on the streets today, drug offi­
cials say. 
extra day and the two extra registra­tion and study days to the 1983 academic year. 
Further business discussed l:>y the Senate concerned the investigations into the laundry service becoming optional. According to Brian Callag­han, Senate member, a former sur­vey taken "resoundingly showed that girls do not want to use the laundry service and that most guys would desire to have it optional." Several locations for the installation of laundry machines are being con­sidered. Carroll and Holy Cross Halls and the Credit Union were men­tioned but thesl· locations might be inconvenient because of their dis­tance from campus. Other dorms, however, might have a problem with space ifwashers were installed. 
"The problem is that we are paying almost triple what you would have to if you did the laundry your­self," Murday commented. Male stu­dents arc billed 52.60 for once a week laundry services. Mike Martin, another Senate member, also 
See COFFEEHOUSE, page 3 
WASHINGTON (AP) -In a furious attempt to salvage an S8. c; billion arms deal to Saudi Arabia, Secretary ofState Alexander M. Haig Jr. charged opponents with "illusions ... irresponsible in the ex­treme" yesterday while President Reagan unveiled support from six previous administrations. 
Haig, in testimony to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, per­sonally assailed Democrat john Glenn of Ohio for what he termed the "imaginary" claim that a com­promise could be worked out call­ing for joint U.S.-Saudi manning of the five AWACS radar planes at the heart of the sale. 
The president, meanwhile, as­sembled 16 defense and foreign­policy officials from Washington's past for a White House display of bipartisan support. The officials in-eluded former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, who si:rved presidents Nixon and Ford, and Zbigniew Brzezinski, President Car­ter's national security adviser. 
Reagan read a joint statement by his guests which declared that "the sale ofAWACS and other air defense equipment to Saudi Arabia would make a substantial contribution to the nation security interests of the United States in a vital part of the world." 
Kissinger, whose government service took him to the Middle East repeatedly, said he could sym­pathize· with the concerns expressed about the proposed S8. 'i billion sale. 
"It is my strong conviction, however, that these concerns can­not be met by rejecting the sale of AWACS," he said. 
Thatcher"s cabinetplans 
.•
Irish prison reforms 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland (AP) 
Prime mmtster Margaret 
Thatcher's Cabinet has approved 
prison reforms for Northern Ireland 
and will announce them within days, 
the goverltment said yesterday. 
Two days after Irish nationalist 
prisoners gave up their hunger cam­
paign at Maze prison, the Northern 
Ireland Office, which administers 
this province, said an announce­
ment of changes in the prison 
regime could come by today. 
Attempting to allay Protestants' 
fears of concessions to the almost 
exclusively Roman Catholic IRA, the 
government has said any reforms 
will apply to all inmates. 
No new violence has been 
reported since the collapse Saturday 
of the seven-month hunger cam­
paign for reforms amounting to 
political status. Ten men starved 
themselves to death and 64 people 
were killed in the province's sec­
tarian battle after the protest began 
March 1. 
The six men who gave up their 
fasts Saturday were no longer in dan· 
ger, the government said. Three 
were being nourished back to health 
in hospitals and two have resumed a 
normal diet and returned to their 
cells. 
Britain's Northern Ireland Secretary James Prior, who arrived _here Sunday, was completing plans 
for prison changes with his deputy 
in charge ofprisons, Lord Gowrie. 
The government said Gowrie 
would visit Maze prison outside Bel­
fast when the draft was completed 
and spell out the prison regime to 
inmates, including 420 protesting 
Irish nationalist prisoners who 
refuse to follow prison regulations. 
Richard McAuley, spokesman for Sinn Fein, political arm of the outlawed Irish Republican Army, said the IRA would "wait and see" what the government announced. The IRA has threatened new hunger strikes if the reforms were found wanting. 
The hunger strikers' original five demands were for the right to as­sociate freely in their cellblocks, to wear civilians clothes brought by their families -not issued by the government, to have lost parole time restored, to do prison work they chose themselves, and to receive more visits and mail. 
The government refused to con­cede on grounds that to do so would legitimize the IRA's violent cam­paign to end British rule and unite the province with the overwhelm­ingly Catholic Irish Republic. 
Throughout the protest, Mrs. Thatcher maintained that some changes in prison regime could be considered but only after the protest ended. · 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
One woman was killed and three people were hospitalized in critical conditon in San Diego Sunday after their car crashed in a drag race, police said. That car and another were going more than 90 mph when the accident occurred in the Kearny Mt·sa area of north-central San Diego. Police said the dead woman, Josephine Bryant, 27, was ejected from the back seat. She died of a broken neck. The other women were taken to Sharp Memorial Hospital. Police said the other car was driven by Thomas D. Lego. a 19 year-old sailor. lk was booked for investigation of felony drunken driving and vehicular manslaughter. -AP 
Volkswagen ofAmerica in Englewood <:lills. N.J. has announced it will dose most of its oltkes there and move to Detroit within the nt·xt two to six years ti>r economic reasons. Spokesman Ikrb Williamson said that "it's almost certain" t,hat some Lkpartmcnh, such as banking, would remain in this Bergen County community after the mo\T. The company wanh to relocate most of it., "iOO :'\ew Jersey employees am\ plans to SJX"llll S:'>00 millon to build an assemblv plant in Sterling Heights, .\lieh.. h>r Rabbit ·t\·pe \"chicles, according to spokc,man Tom .\kl>onald. About I,000 Volkswagen employees already work in the Detroit area. -AP 
Chicago is losing an estimated S2H million a year in parking fines becaust· the city can only collect on about 2"i percent of the tickeh issued. accon.ling to Traffic Court records for the year ended :-.lov. 50. 19HO. (:hieago has cracked down on scoftlaw... by lm·king a metallic device called a ··boot" on one wheel of illegally parkt·d cars. preventing the car from being driven until the tines arc paid. But Anthony T. Bertun:a. chiefassistant city corporation coun­sel ti>r Traffic Court. questions the use of boots in such a large city: 
do you know how many truckloads ofboots we would have to have?" 
-AP 
Fifteen year-old Jeff Vanasano of Jackson Township, N.J.. has beaten more than 2,000 competitors-and set a liS. record -ti>r solving the frustrating but addictive Rubik's Cube. The Bronx, N.Y., youth, who has written a book about the game entitled "Jeff Conquns the Cuhe," solved the multi-colored puzzle in 2·t.67 sn:onds Saturday in one of several cuhe-a-thons being held around the country. But Vanasano, who won $'i00 ti>r his feat, says he's get­ting a littk hored with cuhisn}. "After the finals, I hope I'll be ahlc to go on to something else. But I don't know what." The Ideal Toy ·co., which has sold more th;~n I0 million of the cuhes, invented by Hun­garian professor Dr. Erno Kubik, is sponsoring the competitions to dcterminc the world's fastest cubist. The U.S. finals will be in Los Angell's in No~Tmher and an international compl'lition will be hdd in the spring. To solve the cube. according to Ideal Toy Co. spokes­man Zeke Rose, "You need an uncluttered mind and you need to be uninhibited. That's what sepcrates children from adults. To succeed. ··ou have to undo what you've already accomplished to get to the 'lcxt kvd." -AP 
There are timeswhen not even the mayor gets spn:ial treatment in Sanborn, N.D., a town of 257. When ,'v!ayor Deh Duffy's rat terrier, Snoopy, made the mistake of running through the: dog catcher's yard. it cost Her Honor S I0 in court. ''lie ran right over to the fellow who makes the citations," :'vlrs. Duffy said sheepishly. "What's really so dumb about this whole thing," the mayor said, is that she has heen pushing an ordinance to cut down on the problem of dogs on the loose. The 27 year-old Mrs. Duffy became Sanhorn's tirst woman mayor in July 1980 when t!1e previous officeholder. 
Ralph Didier, resigned. -AP 
Notre Dame's Charles and Margaret Hall Cushwa Center for the Study ofAmerican Catholicism, with a grant of$.37,745 from Lilly Endowments, Inc., has undertaken a feasibility study which could result in the tirst comprehensive history ofAmerican Catholic theological education. The study is being conducted by Dr. Joseph White under the supervision of Dr. Jay P. Dolan, Director of the Cushwa Center. and will include on-site visits to 26 American Cath­olic seminaries to look at their historical records and collections and evaluate their availability for research. An advisory committee had also been formed to review the res"ults of Dr. White's research and to propose a strategy for the compilation. The project is separate from the examination of American seminaries to be undertaken soon by 
.the Vatican in cooperation with the National Conference ofCatholic Bishops. -The Observer 
Cloudy today, with rain and a high of 69. Rain again tomorrow with a high of60 degrees. -AP 
flltlitllt Prime .llinisler liulint (,'unti!Ji j(•etls ll ktlltgamrl a/ IIJe l"itlhin/Ji/la \"atun· Reseri'I' ill .·Ill,\/ralill. She ll't/S i 11 .-t us/raliu tr • uflelld Ibe Colli· 11/fJ/1 1/"l'tllib /leads of\"1£1/e 111eding. 
I/icbae/ /Iales bad cigb/ fingers Sl'l'f!IW/, liS /be cbartahrJl•e his bead pictures. Docf()/~~ u/ .llassa­cbuse/ts General 1/o.\jlitu/ i 11 Uoston mmwged to successjill!)' reat/ucb se1•en oftJ.wm. 
.Veu·walku•t~rs hm•e been built in Kansas Cill•'s il)•a/1 Hotel to replace the catu•alks tbat fetljulv 17, killing 113 people. and the hotel opens its doors to the public for the first time since that 
traget~)'. 
,__The_Ohseryer~ 
Oesign Editor........... ..... lkirdr~·.\1urphy 
/Jesign Assistant. .......... Suzanne La Croix 
Layout Staff. ................. \1ikc McCaugh~y Jim K~y~s 
1)'fJesetler....... . .. ................ Ron joe 
Neu•s Editor. ................. Mary Agn~s Carey 
Copy Editor ........................... Valerie Evans Features Layout.. .. .. Suzanne La Croix 
.~ports Copy Editor... ....... Dzavc Dziedzic Typist... .......Jeanine Hynes .\);stems Control .................. Brucl· Oakky 
ND Day Editor...... . .. Kar~n McMahon SMC Day Editor. ............. Mary Kay Hogan Ad Design ........... Fran & Corbs Photographer... ..........Su~ Quinn 
Guest Appearances.............. Rt·proMao;ter 
Tim "never seen Casablanca( 1?)" N~dy 
Cathy "not dressed up" Domanico Monica "semi·formal attire" Guglt." 
The Wardrob~ The Mind "Fool~. said I. you do no[ know . 
Tuesday, October 6, I 981 -page 2 
AP Photo File 
Challenger Victor 1\orcbnni, rigbt. makes the first mol'e as tit/eho/derAnato~)' Karpm• Iouks on at the opening matcb i11 tbe ll'orld cbess cbam­pirmsbips in Ita/)•. 1\urchnui resigned tbis game after 43 mm•es. 
Observer note: The headline in Saturday's Ob­sen,er which read "Representatives evade im­migration policy" was incorrect. The headline should have n::ad"Represcntatives debate im­migration policy". We regret this error. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers
==Ihe=ObseO{er=-:=
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief..............................john McGrath Photo Editor................ ...................john Macor 
The f!bserver is an independent newspaper published b~· the student" of the 
News Editor ..................................Tim Vercellotti
Umversny of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College h does not nece,,arrh 
News Editor.............................................Kelli Flint Business Manager ......................... Rich Coppola
reflect the policies of the administration of either Institution The new" is reponed 
Sports Editor ..............................Michael Ortman Contro//er............................................)oe Mulflur 
as ~ccurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials repre,ent the opinron of a 
Features Editor..,.......................Anthony Walton Advertising Manager .......... ................ Mark Ellis
maJonty of the Ednonal Board. Commentaries, opinions, and leuer" are the vrew" 
SMC Executive Editor........... Mary Agnes Carey Production Manager.... ........... Michael Monk
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the communit\. and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through leuers. i, enUluraged. SMC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico Circulation Manager.. ...Tom MacLennan 
~-----~----~--­
The Observer Tuesday, October 6, 1981 -page 3 
Anorexia, bulimia 
'Problen1 Eating'begins Friday 
By KATHLEEN DOYLE 
Neu•sStajf 
Public awarene~s of anorexia ner­vosa. bulimia ( hingt· eating and pur­ging) and otlwr t·ating problems has incrt·ast·d rapidly over the past few years. It is now t'stimated that I "i to 20 pncnlt of college women and two pt·rlTnt of collq~e men have some involvnlll'lll with these disor­ders. 
l'riday at 5 p.m. the llniversity's l'sychologil'al Scrvin·s Center will begin its piomTring dfort in dealing with the isslll' of eating disorders. .. Problems in Eating" will bl· dirt-ctnl by Dr. Danid Rybicki and Dr. Susan Stdbe. This program will ollt-r both contldential individual coun~ding and group therapy tiJr students believed to he suffering from t·ating disorders. 
"Tht· program will be both didac­tic and experiential," Steihe said. "It will otkr intiJrmation on nutrition and ht·althy lifestyks while allowing the participants to experience the 
therapeutic  process  as  the  group  
mt·mbcrs share and  support each  
otht-r."  

Rybicki and Steibt· plan to focus on the link between eating and emo­tion. Their approach will differ from others in that it will invcstigate a multi-faceted etiology. It will inves­tigate a variety ofpossible causes for the disorders rather than just sub­scribe to one theoretical cause, a method that provides for a variety of treatments. 
This on-going program will be a learning process for all involved. "We arc starting out with no precon­ceived notions," Rybicki explained. "As the concerns of the group surfact· we will be able to conduct appropriatt· intervention," Steibe added. 
"Wt· also plan to work with hall staffs in order to help them deal with this sensitivc issue," Rybicki said. "The hingt· t·ating, purging, and self starving arc usually done in a stTretive way. For this reason we must help the rectors and hall stalls recognize the symptoms and reach out in a caring fashion." 
SnTral symptoms are indicative of anorl·xia nervosa. bulimia and t·ating impube disorders. These art·: 
"Searching for Sammy Seminole" 
"Sl·arching for Sammy Seminok." the theme to this yt:ar's Homecom­ing Search, has begun and will con­tinut· through Friday 
lint· art· yesterday's and today's dues to this year'~ Homecoming St·arch, "Sammy Could Be Hiding Anywhere": 
I. What is the tallest building on campus? 
2. A"Tomer," not a llomer, would be digging tiJr the Seminole. 
Wl!l'n you find tht· answers to thest· clut·s, bring tlu: intimnation to the Studt·nt Union oftke, second tloor LaFortune Studt·nt Center. The winner of the Search will receive dinner for two at a local rt·staurant. 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and 
on home football Saturdays. except 
dunng exam and vacahon penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Col­
~~~;2~~~~c:~~~o(~s1~~~r~~~~~~~)s~~
wnting The Observer. P.O Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 The Observer 1s a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghtsarereserved. Second class postage paid at Notre 

LaFortune Student Cent'er .·tt Date: Thursda_y, Oct. 8 •• 
T:• 700 
• tme: : 'Pm : e • Place: LaFortune Little Theatre ~ Universit_y ofNotre Dame Placement Burea'4 
' 
rapid weight loss of 2<; pcrn:nt of original body weight, hinge eating (uncontrolled excessive eating), tendency to ht· highly active and sports minded, highly restricted diet, self-starvation, ~df-induced vomiting to purgt· system, intense fear of becoming overweight and sensitivity to cold. If you recognize these symptoms in yourself or someone you know, contact Dr. 
By COLETTE ST. AUBIN 
.V<•u•s Staff 
This weekend's celebration of the HOOth anniversary ofSaint Francis of Assisi ended with a lecture given by Sister Melinda Roper in tht· Notre Dame library auditorium. 
Sister Roper, who is President of the Maryknoll Sisters, titled her speech "Today's Peacemaker" and 
discussed  the  role  of  the  
peacemaker in modern soc iety.  
Sister  Roper  said  that  she  has  

spent the majority of her time in Latin American countries hut that there are Maryknoll nuns in over 2S countries. Noting that she was very involved in the crisis which occured in El Salvador last year( when four American women were killed), Sis­ter Roper explained that the Sal­vadorian tragedy is part of the reason that she continues to 
promote peace. 
"Perhaps my dreams for peace are unrealistic," Sister explained, "Today's peacemaker must he one who speaks the truth and seeks the truth." For most people, she ex­plained, the definition of peace is a negative one. Many people define peace as the absence of war, while it should bt· thought of as the peace of God. 
continuedfrom page I 
rcmarkt·d that "the servin· is ter­rihk...you can put your clothes in one night and go up to tlve days without getting them hack. Ifyou do it yourself you only pay about S I. "iO every two weeks and there is no wait." :'vlurday and Callaghan plan to further investigatl· the mattt·r. 
In response to the Iack of hike racks on campus, results ofa Studt·nt St·nate survt·y were reviewed. John Makulski of Maintenance will soon be installing 12 new hikt· racks on campus. Locations ti>r these include O'Shaughnessy llall, the Business Building, North and South Dining halls and between the Administra­tion Building and St. Edward's Hall. 
Another major discussion of the Senate meeting concerned the plans, problems and frustrations with Chatauqua-LaFortune Club. 
Rybicki or Dr. Stdbe at the Psycho­logical Services Center, Student Health Center. Any student in­terested in "P.I.E." is asked to con­tact the Center before Friday to arrange for a personal interview to determine if the program meets hls need. 
Tht· Centn emphasizes that the stan· and "P.I.E." group members are hound to the stricted confidence. 
Assisi anniversary ends with Roper lecture 
Sister Roper explaint:d that she has "no reason to seriously doubt Mr. Duarte's (Salvadorian ambas­sador to the United States) integrity. However, he has no power to do anything about the investigation." 
Sister Roper concluded her lecture in noting that the entire world is responsible for aiding governments in maintaining peace. Sister described her regret for those who do not recognize peace in saying, "I believe they can change, I have a hope that they will change." 
Holy Cross vocations 
Sr. McCabe assumespost 
By MARGARET FOSMOE 
News Staff 
Sr. Pat McCabe has recently been appointed the new vocation direc­tor for the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
Sr. Pat studied in Rome, Italy, last year with a variety of religious women from around the world. 
In addition, she spent 12 years in parish religious education ministry in Texas, Maryland, and Virginia. This experience increased Sr. Pat's 
• Coffeehouse 
When the Student Senate meets with the Board of Trustees two weeks from Thursday, the future ofthe Cot: feehouse will be tht· major issue dis­t·ussed. "Wt· need to see physical action. S:\0,000 is not enough and won't solve the problem. We need a multi-purpose building tiJr social space, not a room in LaFortune," Murday explained. 
Last Friday, Murday's summary of tht· Senate's future plans presented .to members ofthe Alumni Executive Board were greeted with "the up­most praise." The AEB sent an alumni newsletter to llniversity President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, urging that the' students receive a multi-purpose center which could include an alumni center. Murday feels that with the alumni hoard pus­hing to draw up actual plans, "We've now gained an important facet of support to hdp us." . 
Career lnfonnation 
lArts & L-etters Career Day Thursday, October 8 12 noon to 4pm 
Thejustice and Peace Center sponsored a lecture last night by Sr. Melinda Roper, President ofthe Maryknoll Sisters. She spoke on the role of"Today's Peacemaker." (photo by Sue Quinn) 
awareness that the Church is doing much for families, tht: elderly, and youth, but comparatively little for young adults. 
Sr. Pat stated her goal as vocation director. "I want to support and help young adults as they search to see where the Lord is calling them in their lives. I want to invite young women, to challenge them, to con­sider life and ministry with the Sis­ters of the Holy Cross," she said. 
"The Church needs and wants 
them and the Spirit is challenging us to see religious life not as static, rigid, or tlxed in concrete, but con­stantly open and tlexible for service," Sr. Pat pointed out. 
Although her title is Vocation Director for the Sisters of the Holy Cross, Sister Pat emphasized that she is available for vocational counsell­ing in areas outside of the religous field. Her primary concern, she said, is "hdping young people to discern what their calling is in lifc." 
A limited number of 
HOMECOMING PACKETS 
are still availablein the S.U. Ticket Office/Record store 
Includes: 2 FSU G.A.s 2 Beach Bo_ys tix (I'm hip) 2 H omecomin!( tix 


: There will be a general meeting for all : those interested in working on • 
:JUNIOR ••••••••••••

PARENTS ........
' 
WEEKEND. 
L..-Da-me-.ln-di-ana-46-55_6____, I±:=====·==============:t...• ..................... 
Tuesday, October 6, 1981 -page 4
Features 
America for Americans? 
Joe Regotti 
Feature 
There is a danger in studying in Latin America with an open mind and a critical conscience, the dan­ger being that one will inevitably come to the realization that "the way the world is" is not nccccssari­ly "the way the world is according to tht: Unites States." Having cx­pt:ricnccd this crisis last st:mt:stcr while studying at the Ibcroamt:ricana University in Mt:xico City, I rt:turn homt: to find that the "Unitt:d Statt:s standard" is now only a visible social forct: rt:sponsible for tht: lopsided world vit:w wt: 'Americans' grow to un­critically adopt. Wt: comt: to know that "the world is this way" with­out t:vt:n considt:ring the pos­sibility ofalternative world vit:ws. 
From Latin Amt:rica tht: world looks different. Spending time in another culture is t:spt:cially hdp­ful in bt:ginning to get an idea of just what an altt:rnativt: perspective on the world t:ntails. 
Being outside of the U.S. is cru­cial in st:cing tht: fort:st as well as tht: trt:t:s. Looking from the insidt: of a society, it is hard to identify individual aspects which would constitute a nat<mal standard rt:sponsiblc for a lopsided worldvicw. After all, from tht: U.S. one can look to the Soviet Union and clearly sec a prt:dominant stan­dard at work. Through complett: control of the communication and educational systems the Soviet state is able to 'nurture' its pt:ople and formulate an t:thnocentric worldvicw which is acct:ptt:d tht:re as rt:prcscntativc of how the world is. This brings to light a cru­cial aspt:ct of idt:ntifying the predominant guiding standard: for it to become visible it is important to vit:w the socit:ty in question 
from a distinct point not within the socit:ty. 
Lift: in Mexico City offered an interesting point of view of "the great society to the north". As I stumbled through the first couple 
of months then: learning daily about tht: culture of my new home I also learned many interesting things about my old homt:. A par­ticularly tdling example of my in­herent ethnocentrism is the fact tnat I consistently referred to myself as an American and my country as America, which was fine but did little to distinguish me from the crowd. The fact was politely pointed out to me that I was still in America and speaking to Americans. Referring to myself as a North American was equally ineffective; it was patiently pointed out to mt: that Mexicans arc North Americans too. So much for being an American. 
The problem of tht: American/United States-ian dis­tinction runs deep from the view­point of the Latin Amt:rican. The United States has depended on the neat slogan "America for the Americans" as a base for it's politi­cal, military and economic policies throught Latin America since World War II. In Latin America, outside of tht: influt:nce of the U.S. standard, the slogan is translated to reflect tht: reality oftht: situation as seen from there. "America para los cstado-unidt:nst:s", "Amt:rica for the Unitt:d States-ian". Tht: rt:aliza­tion that this conct:pt is at tht: base of tht: perception of how-tht:­world-is from the Latin Amt:rican point of vit:w is disquieting, espe­cially when it is rt:acht:d while 
living in Latin Amt:rica. 
The world view which dt:vdops 
in Latin America, then, is distinct 
from the view which wt: come to 
in the United States. With this in 
mind a look at economic and 
political affairs in Latin Amt:rica 
givt:s rise to conflicting 
worldvit:ws. 
Political, economic and military 
intervention on the part of the U.S. 
into the intt:rnal affairs of otht:r 
countries is conducted when a 
country is in danger of losing its 
stability and falling prey H) sdf­
interested and opprt:sive com­
munist forces. We are the 
champions of frt:e t:ntt:rprise and 
the freedom of man. This is not the 
way the world is to most Latin 
Americans. Intt:rnational intt:rven­
tion on tht: part oftht: Unitt:d Statt:s is vit:wed from Latin Amt:rica as impt:rialism. Tht: United STates reprt:st:nts an immense and saturated economy with an insa­tiable nt:ed of a market for con­sumt:r goods and rt:sourct:s of raw materials and cheap labor. Any in­tervention far from being in the in­terest of the fret:dom of man, is perceived as being solely in the in­tt:rest ofsecuring an effective base upon which we rest out economy and from which we draw our opulant life style. We are rich be­canst: they art: poor, and viet: versa. 
A current illustration of this point is the case of Guatt:mala. Guatt:mala is a typical example ofa country in the hands of the op­pressivt: few intent on exploiting the country's rich resourct:s of labor, raw materials and agriculture while the population starvt:s. This systt:m, when it is stable, is tht: idt:al base for the Unitt:d States' economic interests. Tht: poor of that country, 90 pt:r­cent of all Guatemalans, art: now causing problems by demanding human rights and a more dis­tibutively just form ofgovt:rnment. Our most recent administration has supplit:d the opprt:ssive governmt:nt there with a team of 
U.S. military advisors, most ofthem Gret:n Beret, and war materials to help "restore stability" in the country. Now the popular rt:volutionarit:s must turn to outside sources for arms to combat the Rt:agan machine. The only picture wt: get hert: in tht: Unitt:d States, if wt: hear of it at all, is that our prt:sidt:nt is working to kt:t:p tht: Russians out of our back yard. After all, America is for we Amt:ricans. 
We are raised within the United Statt:s educational system to think that wt: art: prt:sented with pure facts -all the facts -and with these wt: freely construct our worldview. It is only after escaping the U.S. standard and studying from a differt:nt vantagt: point that one can realize how strongly guided -controlled -their intcl­kctual development has been. Tht: 
right into the open arms of big business. It is the multinational corporate interests who, through educational and rest:arch grants; public and private donations, t:tc. now impose on us the rt:stricting standards. Thili is indt:t:d an aspect to be considered in attempting to idt:ntify tht: social forct:s which guide us to our uniquely United States·ian worldview. 
In a real st:nst: my time spent studying in Latin Amt:rica was dan­gerous for me. I was called to aban­don my warm bed of a simple uncritical Unitt:d States-ian worldview and stand in tht: cold rt:ality of tht: world where millions ofpeoplt: art: starving for solutions to tht: complicatt:d dilt:mma of t:conomic t:xploitation and military oppression. Aftt:r such an experience I return home 'to find my bt:d not nearly as warm and comfortable as I left it. I look upon the worldview I'm handed now dif ft:rt:ntly -critically -and rt:alize this is a first step to understanding the dilemma of my fellow Americans to the south. 

The Prostitution ofPerfection 
that particular "bottle of milk's" in­from a lack both of intrinsic valut: should tht:y pull free of the tug ot maybe they will inflict their stan­herent worth. Or1ct: there, they and extrinsic values. In fact, I'd bt: mediocrity, tht:y can never com­dards on others. It would take
Lynne Daley 
clog the nt:ck of the bottle with willing to wager that to thost: of pletely re-enter the atmosphere it courage to t:nforct: a standard of their ineptitudc until the whole the "That's Good Enough" school, creates in evt:ryday socit:ty. excd.Jence, to mandate that others stagnt:nt mess is worthkss. one of life's major impetuses is to Intcrt:stingly enough, those who givt: more of themselvt:s than thay
Features Writer Even bent:ath the corporatt· justify and to win approval for their must sign their work -artists, had prt:viously bet:n askt:d to give. kvel the spt:ctrt: of mediocrity as a standard. "Acct:pt mediocrity," composers, scientists and the like But it would be worth it. sought-after goal continues to they cry, "it's easkr." ' -are compulsivt: perfectionists. Takt:, as an exampk, your 
"That's good enough." plague our society. On a collegiate To fly in the fact: of this mindset They refuse ct:nsorship, and they favorite instructor of all time. No level, for example, studt:nts boast is a difficult undertaking. It's tough requirt: compkte dedication from doubt he or she was not the most The above combination of of "blowing off' schoolwork in ·to put in the extra effort, to work those who aid in the presentation leniant, most forgiving or "t:asiest" words forms one of tht: most favor of more fleeting p!t:asures, -whilt: everyone elst: plays -of their work. They are probably teacher you evt:r had. Chances are destructive statt:ments in today's such as gt:tting drunk. Tht:se stu­toward the elusive standard ofper­not liked much for their that that teacher was special, that society. Think about it. The use of dents enroll in "jock" courst:s to fection. To those who play, you arc persnickety-ness. And they are not he/she madt: you think. In so that phrase can instantaneously boost a sagging G.P.A. which, in the a fool. To those who accept undt:rstood. But tht:y don't give a doing, this teacher made you pt:rvert a goal of pt:rfection by end, st:rves as thcir solt: gauge of mediocrity, you art: dangt:rous, for damn what others think, because realize that you could rt:ason and standardizing mt:diocrt: ac­succt:ss. A 4.0 is a job well done, you rt:ject their standards to hold they comprehend what tht: that your thoughts were valuable complishmt:nts. wht:tht:r or not tht: student has fast to what they consider lofty -mt:diocre mindset can nevt:r grasp: if only bt:caust: -in the whole. learned anything. and unattainable -ideals. And to that tht: final product is what lin­wide world -they are unique. But 
Our wholt: system of capitalism This studt:nt has, in effect, just about everyone, you appear to gers. If evt:n one aspt:ct of their you passed the course and moved is bast:d on the theory that thost: coppt:d out by subjecting be a crazed fanatic. work is. mt:rdy adequate, tht: on, forgt:tting -or repressing ­with the most brains, talent and him/hersdfto the dictatt:s ofthost: It's a shame in our frt:t:­whok creation is suspect and tht: lesson you learned so dt:arly.
ambition will rist: to the top like who accept -even t:ncourage -t:nterprise society, which allows so therefore worthlt:ss. So they drivt: For now, it's inevitable that .cream. And, this system mediocrity. You can find tht:m much leeway to those engaging in themselvt:s relentlessly, hoping to society will continue to wallow in 
propounds, once at tht: top the everywht:rt: -peoplt: who do not tht: get-ahead-at-any·cost gamt:, mold something truly rt:markable. a self-imposed stagnation, just as cream will enhance the quality of 
say "That's inadequate -do it that there are so few individuals Statistically, few will succt:ed in some studt:nts will continue to tht: lt:sser milk bt:nt:ath it, thus again." They have decided that who are willing to fasten their eyes this endeavor bt:cause so few havt: prepare for a big exam by gettingmaking the wholt: bottle more perfection isn't worth the effort on the stars rather than on the dol­the guts to try. drunk. Ofcourse it won't gt:t tht:m valuable. 
and so tht:y t:xcust: anything that lar sign. Unfortunately, it appt:ars Pt:rhaps someday mort: people anywhere. But that doesn't mattt:r 
But unfortunately it dot:sn't al­falls short. And wht:n one of tht:m that mt:diocrity is the standard by will rt:alize the vast amount of un­anyway, sinct: they had no par­ways work that way. Too often is allowt:d to set tht: standards for which all things are measured and tapped potential within them­ticular destination in mind. pt:ople pull strings, widd in­an t:ntire corporate group, then that, as such, it all too easily brt:t:ds selves. Maybe they will see -truly Whcrevt:r they end up will, most fluence and just plain cht:at thdr that group necessarily becomes more mediocrity. No one is willing set: -what they can do in assuredly, be good enough for way to the top, thereby alleviating equally bogged down, suffering to shoot for tht: stars bt:caust:, whatt:vt:r fidd they pursut:. And them. 
---------, 
Tuesday, October 6, 1981 -page 5
Sports Brie/§ 

The Notre Dame chapter of the fellow~hip of 
Christian Athktt·~ is ~ponsoring an evening with Irish baseball Coach Larq <iallo tomorrow at H::)O p.m. in tht· Badin llall chapel. FCA promotn Christian tdlowship among athletes and coadKs in hopn that this will he shan·u with the entire community. All are invited to attt·ml. -The Obserr•er 
The Notre Damegolfteam will host the ND Fall Invita­tional <iolf Tournament Monday atiernoon on the Burke :\1emorial (iolf Courst·. Coach Nod O'Sullivan's Irish will he looking to rebound from their disappointing showing in th<.· recent Indiana• State< :hampionships. -The Obserr•er 
Practice for the Notre Dame Women's Softball Club has btTn cantTied li>r this week. There will be a mandatory meeting for all old and new members next Tuesday. October I3. Time and loca­tion will ht• announced. Call Karen Alig ( 740 I ) ti>r more inti>rma­tion. -The Ohserr•er 
Purdue University, leu by captain .Jay Smith. edged Notre Dame for the team championship of tht· Notre Dame fall In­vitational. held yesterday at Burke Memorial Golf Course. Purdue t1nished with a team total of :)61 while Notre Dame t1nished with 
362. Smith won the individual honors t(Jr the second \Tar in a row when he completed the day with a 69. Notre Dame's B;>h Horak and Tom Scully were runners-up, each with a 71. -The Obserr•er 
Two pass interceptionsand a fumble set up three Tony Franklin t1dd goals and quanerhack Ron .Jaworski threw a :)0­yard touchdown pass as the unbeaten Philadelphia Eagles heat the Atlanta Falcons 16-I 3 last night. The Eagles, however. had to withstand a furious Atlanta second-halfrally in which English import Mick Luckhurst kicked a 3S-yard tkld goal and, 12 seconds later, cornerback Kenny Johnson returned a fumbled kickoff return 20 yards to bring the Falcons within I3-10 with 4:0S ldt in tht· third period. -AP 

This Is what the major league standings would have looked like II the owners had not adopted the split season concept alter the mld-eummer baseball e)rlke. 
NATIONAL LEAGUE East 
w L Pet. GB Sl LOUIS 59 43 578 y-Montreat 60 48 556 2 
_,
x·Ph1ladelph1a 59 48 551 2.5 P•nsburgh 46 56 451 13 New York 41 62 398 18 5 Ch1cago 38 65 369 21 5 
West Ctnc~nnatt 66 42 611 x·Los Angeles 63 47 573 4 y-Houslon 61 49 .555 6 San Franctsco 56 55 505 11.5 Atlanta 50 56 472 15 
San D1ego 41 69 373 26 
Today'a Gamea Los Angeles (Valenzuela 13-7) at Houston (Ryan 11· · 5). 7 15 p m. Only game scheduled 
S~e SPORTSBOARD, page 6 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED.. SAT . SUN 9· 7 CASPERSON, 1303 BUCHANAN AD NILES 
WILL TRADE 2to 4 USC GA S FOR 2 to 4 PENN ST GAS CALL AL-3549 
TYPING··Only $ 65 a page Call Dan. 272·5549. before 9.00 PM 
TO THE FOOL WHO STOLE MY TAPE DECK FROM THE ARKY BUILDING THURSDAY NITE YOUR GRANDMOTER IS BEING HELD HOSTAGE IN MY DORM YOU CAN HAVE HER BACK WHEN MY TO IS RETURNED JUST LEAVE IT ANYWHERE THAT SOME HONEST PERSON CAN FIND IT OR IF YOU HAVE THE ···-S CALL 1678 SHES NOT GOING TO LIVE MUCH LONGER P S. I WANT THE TAPES TOO 
GOING SOUTH FOR THE BREAK? I NEED A RIDE TO CENTRAL ALABAMA WILL SHARE EXPENSES AND DRIVING PLEASE CALL ANGIE AFTER 1030PM AT3750 
A TLANT A!!IATLANT A!IIATLANT AI! I Alders wanted Leav1ng Fr~day Call272· 9913 
OVERSEAS JOBS · Summer/year round Europe. S Amer .. Austrah:t As1a All f1elds $500·$1200 monthly Sightsee­Ing Free 1nfo W111e IJC, Box 52-IN·4. 
Corona Del Mar. CA 92625 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans $20·$200. One percenlln­terest. Due tn one month One day wa1t Open M·F. 11.30·12·30 1n LaFortune Basement 
Sewtng and alterations done by Joanne 272·8450 Great also for handmade grffs for birthdays and !he holidays! 
r-------~ 
!LOST/FOUND 
LOST a two lone blue sweat 1ackel Reward. call V~nce x 1238 
LOST Green F1eld or thereabouts · one wallet Please return Ia Ted. 233·3552 
LOST small tan clutch purse 1n 0 Shag classroom PLEASE return 1ilound Need I D s desperally Donna 2734 
LOST Head T enms Racket al E line North D1mng shelves on 9·18 Please call Tomal1470 
---NOTICE··· To !he k1nd genlleman who offered Ia SELL me back my los! purse Where were you last F11day at 4 30? It sending me on a wtld goose chase IS your tdea of a game. I lhrnk 11 IS SICK Do you even have my purse or IS the whole lh1ng a toke? I DON T THINK IT IS FUNNY!! 
I LOST MY DIAMOND RING ON SATUR· DAY IT IS VERY UNUSUAL 2 DIAMONDS PLUS ONE LARGE PEARL· SHAPED DIAMOND. WHITE GOLD IT WAS MADE AND DESIGNED ESPE· CIALLY FOR ME I COULD HAVE LOST IT IN THE AREA OF THE BOOKSTORE OR UNIVERSITY CLUB REWARD PLEASE CALL JEANNE AT 1-456·1311 IN FORT WAYNE PLEASE 
Lost Cream spr~ng tackel w1th e!as11c wa1sl. collar. and cuffs. 1n mrd sept Call Bob at3260 
Los!. Black pop-up umbrella 1n rm. 265 in old cham bldg··ln m1d Sept. call Bob al 3260 One bedroom. lurmshed apl near NO Newly decorated. pnvate entrance. $165/month Call255·8505 or 259·4629 
WANTED 
Will top highest bid lor 2 FSU GA's Chris 8930 
RIDE NEEDED TO CONN. FOR OCT BREAK. PLEASE CALL 1500. 
Need ROOM RESERVATION for FLORIDA STATE WEEKEND -Call Dron at 3573. 
Need FSU llxs. Will pay $35·40 per 11x 277·5098 
3WANTED: AN AUTHOR FOR SIX CHARACTERS apply w1lh1n.) 
Need nde to east. PA & back for Del break Ia Read1ng or Phila. area w111 share costs. Call Dean. 8643. 
Two w1ld g~rls need 11de Ia Gainesville. Fla. (or general VICinlly) for October break. Will share $ and gas. Can leave anylrme. Call Pam or Sus1e (and they'll leave a message tor the w1ld g~rls) at 41· 5236 
Need many Flonda St. GAs. Please call Mark. 277-0692 
Will pay brg bucks tor 2·4 G A Navy llckels-please help-call Glenn al 3387 
Need 11de Ia North Jersey for break W1ll share $$ B11an 3648 
NEED2GASTOFSU. WILLING TO PAY BIG $$$$. ALSO NEED 2 USC GAS CALLJOE AT 1945 
Need nde to Evansville, IN area for break Will share expenses Call B1ll al 8686 
Need 11de Ia Providence. R.I. over Oct Break Will share expenses Call Lawrence at 3122 
HELP! I NEED A RIDE TO LAWRENCE OR KANSAS CITY FOR BREAK! WILL PAY USUAL SHARE. CALL SHEILA 7907 
Need 11de Ia COLORADO Sp11ngs WILL SHARE USUAL. Call MARK 288·5208 
Help an underpnvtleged mmonty! G1ve a needy F11ip1no a 11de home for October break My homeland of Ftonda awa1ts for me Anywhere m the Jacksonvtlle· Daytona-Orlando-Philippines area! Will share usual (1ncl 11ce and coconuts). Call Greg (propr~elor ol the lovely ABAD ABODE 1n Daytona Bch )-8222 
Need nde to Maryland lor October Break· ··Call Lrsa at 4·1·5411 
Need as many Flonda Stale 11ckels as possrble for lam11y Call Julie al277·8839 
FOR SALE 
MAGNAPAN IIA Speakers. one year old. $645. 616·4 73-1636 
anyone Infested 1n u s.c. t1cs t wtll trade 3 student 11cs lor 3 f.s u stud or gas call JOhn al8791 
ATTENTION PHOTOG­RAPHERS ..... FOR SALE: An Omega B· 22 enlarger w1th copy stand and 36 column Th1s 1s tusl !he condenser head and copy s1and. No lense 1ncluded. but head lakes any standard Omega enlarger lense. P11ce $25 Call John Macor al 1715 or 8661 and leave your name and number 
.___F_O_R_R_E_NT------~~~'--_TI_C_K_ET_S------~ 
Student hous1ng. clean. safe. laundry. k1tchen. rated supenor $100 1ncludes all Penn Sl llckel wanted. please call Donna 291-1405 at6771 2 GA FLORIDA STATE TIX NEEDED BADLY. MONEY NO OBJECT Bob 234­0418 
W1ll pay lop$ lor NO-USC game 11cke1s Need 6 ttckets. best locatton avatlable Please call collect (714) 835-6505 ask lor Tony Herenda or Jud1 Carlos 
TWO GA FSU TICKETS. MONEY NO OBJECT CALL BOB 234·0418 
I NEED 4 GA TICKETS TO THE NAVY GAME CALL PETER t 222 
Need MSU and Ga. Tech GAs desperately Call Paul at 1222 
Need Penn Stale lrx. Call Sian. 3006. or 3008 
Need 2 GAs for Flonda State. Call Stan. 3006 
Help' Need 2 or more t1x to any home game. Call Maureen at 284·4156. $$$ 
NEED MANY FSU TIX (GA). WILL PAY BIG BUCKS AND FIRST BORN SON. CALL TOM-1175 
HELP! FAMILY WANTS TO SEE NAVY GAME! NEED GA TIX DESPERATE· L Y!l! JULIE-3829 
TOP DOLLAR FOR USC GA CALL SUE (SMC) 4889 
MEGA BUCKS tor "2 FSU l1ckels: call x7745. 
For SALE. student USC Best offer. Laura 2858 
NEED 2 NAVY GA TIX. CALL SUSAN x80201 
FLA ST!I! I'M DESPARATE·Will PAY ANYTHING FOR TIXS. JENNY 41·4507 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 OR 4 FSU GA TIX'!I PLEASE CALL LISA AT 6848 
Need 2·4 GA TIX lor any home game Call 1210 
Parents threatemng me! Help! Need 3 FSU GAs. Call B11an 4521 
HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL FANS NEED FLORIDA STATE TIX Call Tom al 3573 
PLEASE !I! I NEED TWO GAS FOR FSU ANDGA TECH. WILLPAYBUCKSCALL JOE al886 
NEED 2 FSU TIX WILL PAY $60 AND UP ED 1208 
BIG $$$$$ lor 2 GA TIX & 2 ST TIX for GEORGIA TECH. PLEASE call BEFORE BREAK!! JAY at 1703 
NEED MSU & FSU GA TIX. CALL TOM x8391 
NEED 3·4 FLA ST GAs FOR FAMILY WILL PAY TOP$ CALL TIM 277-7590 
2 USC GA s needed Please calr MARK at 1841 
Desperally need 1 FSU and 2 USC T1x Call Buzz 8265 
NEED 4 FSU TIX PLEASE CALL 5157 
OESPERATELY NEEO 3 GA TlX TO FLORIOA STATE. WILL PAY SSSI PLEASE CALL PAULA AT 232·8301. 
Need 4 FSU GAs. Will pay b1g $, call Jasper 1744 
DESPERATE ALUMNI NEEDS GOOD TICKETS TO USC GAME CALL COL· LECT (BEFORE 2PM) JOHN DE ROSA (213) 485-1100 
I could use 500 Georgra Tech GAs. buill you have 3 please g1ve me a call. Jeff 6988 
I need GA tickets tor Flo11da State Please call Dave x8923 
NEED FLORIDA ST TICKETS Would like up lo 3 GAs. Please call Jell. 1764 or 1761 
BEN and Dude need FSU llckels d1al 1000 
Help. my lam1ly needs three 11x lor Flor~da Slate. please call Marc1a al 8050. 
NEED GA FLORIDA STATE TICKETS PLEASE CALL M.J. 4-1-4411 
WANTED. FOUR GAS TO FLORIDA STATE. MONEY NO OBJECT CALL HANK AT 1650 WANTED. THREE GAS TO USC AM DESPERATE. SO CALL NOW CALL HANK OR JIM AT 1650 
NEED 2 FSU l1x · studen1 or GA Call T1m 1751 
PENN ST. TIX: WILL BUY PSU TIX OR TRADE FOR USC GAS. Bill 80. 212· 759·4846 
WEAL THY GRANDPARENTS need 2 FLORIDA STATE GAs Call Bob at 3527 
NEED STUDENT OR GA TICKETS FOR FSU WILL PAY TOP$. CALL LATE 289· 3145 
Need G.A llckels Ia ANY HOME GAME Call Pat al 1481 
FLA. ST needed badly. call Joe 1744 
D~speralely need FSU GA·s Please call Joe 1492. 
Need USC student 11cket. Please call me before you sell $$$ Jrm 1 050 
I NEED 2 GA TIX FOR FSU $$$ CALL DAVE 277·5883 
HELP! I NEED TWO NAVY GAs CALL STEVE AT 8165 THANKS. 
Need 4 USC !IX· will pay$$. Call6116 
Need 2 GAs and 1 sludenllicket tor FSU call 4·1·5773. 
llalran GRANDMA wants to see NAVY game so do brother and parents Grandma has pleAiy of money . need up to 4 GAs call John 3623 
No one wtll pay you more for 2 GA hckets for the USC game Call 8906 
URGENT! I need 2 student FSU t1x. Call Mary 41-4276 
BIG BUCKS SCOTT NEEDS: 1 F S U and 1 U.S.C G A or sludenlllckets. Call Scali al8702 
Will trade 4 FSU GA lor 2 USC GA. Call Tony 289·1916. 
Need one FSU GA or student. Bruce 289· 1916. 
URGENTLY NEED FOUR FSU GAS. !'LEASE CALL JACK AT 1100 
HELP' AILING GRANDFATHER HAS NEVER SEEN NOTRE DAME PLAY NEED TWO NAVY TIX FOR HIM AND A DATE CALL2103 
NEED ONE FSU STUDENT TICKET PLEASE CALL TONY AT 3588 
• 1 FSU STUDENT TICKET NEEDED. PLEASE CALL CARLOS AT 1423 $$$$ 
Need 2 or more GAs for Flor~da game. Call Eileen 4·1-4420 
NEEO FLORIOA STATE GA'S. WILL PAY ANY PRICE. CALL PAUL 8509. 
FOR SALE. Beach Boys Tickets. padded seals. $9 each. call Bud x1502. 
Help need 6 G.A.·s tor Florida State. Call Kalre 4631(smc) 
W1lltrade 2 GOOD Navy or GA Tech GAs for 2 GOOD Fla St GAs. Call Lew1s at • 1234 days. or 288-2961 after 5:30 
FSU TIX FOR SALE. USC TIX NEEDED Will make best otter or trade. Call Larry 277-3306 
The Observer will accept classtfteds Mon­day through Friday. 10 am. to 4.30 p.m. However. classtfteds to appear in the next issue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the business day prior lo insertion. All classifieds must be prepatd, either in person or through the Mail. 
NEED 2 FSU 11x. 2, GAs or 1 "' 1 stud lrx VINCE x1238 
I WILL TRADE ONE FSU GA TICKET FOR A FSU STUDENT TICKET ANOTH· ER GA ALSO AVAILABLE CALL CARLOS AT 1423 
PLEASE CALL ME NEED 8 "A FLORIDA STATE TIX CHIP 7443 
NEED 3 NAVY GA TIX! PLEASE CALL CARRIE 8031! 
USC GA trx needed call M1ke 3686 
NEED TWO G A FLORIDA ST TICK· ETS WITHIN THE 20 YARD LINES WIL· 
LING  TO  TRADE  CALL  MIKE  AT  
277·6249  
NEED  TWO  G A  NAVY  TICKETS  

PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 277·6249 
I NEED 2 USC GAS TOGETHER MOM AND DADS 25TH WEDDING ANNIVER· SARY GIFT-PLEASE HELP!! CALL TIM 1372 
PROMINENT CHICAGO STOCK· BROKER NEEDS 10 USC GAS WILL PAY SUBSTANTIAL PREMIUM CALL 312·621·3799 COLLECT ASK FOR TED 
for sale. 2 F S U. GAs call m1ke 2187 
Penn ST lrx wanted w1ll pay b•g$$$ or trade Nav; GAs call Mrke 2187 
Need FSU TIX Please call 1827 
Jail BREAK Dad IS breaking OUI of !Billa see the FSU and NAVY game I need two GAs lor both games Please help Call Lynn al6766 
Wanted. Two Penn Slate G As lor boyfnend s parents. Help save a beautiful relalronsh1p! Aileen 3445. 
PERSONALS 
G~ PROFESSOR RODS -STAY AWAY FROM THOSE GIGS -YOU CANDO IT!! 
DARBY S PLACE IS OPEN TONIGHT FROM MIDNIGHT UNTIL THREE IN THE LAFORTUNE BASEMENT 
CONGRATULATIONS MK, WE LOVE YOU, THE GANG 
CASABLANCA 
CASABLANCA 
CASABLANCA 
SEE IT AGAIN!!! 
Tues. Wed--Del 6. 7 
7.9.11 Eng Aud 
PITTSBURGH CLUB OCTOBER BREAK BUS SIGN UPS AND MEETING TONIGHT!!' 
7:00 P M LAFORTUNE LITTLE THEATER!! 
Da1sy (Monrque). Drop h1m He sa snake 
ACHTUNGIACHTUNG!ACHTUNGI German Club Mee11ng. Tues.. Ocl6 7.15 PM 331 0 shag. Guest Speaker. Refres· ments BE THERE!!!!! 
MY BROTHER FROM TN HAS NEVER SEEN A FOOTBALL GAME. SO IF YOU HAVE IT IN YOUR HEART TO SELL ME 1 USC TICKET I AM SURE HE WOULD APPRECIATE IT CALL GINA 4232 BY THE WAY. WHAT I JUST SAID WAS NOT TRUE BUT I AM REALLY desperate 
WHO SAID CHIP IS EASY!!'??? 
Need nde to Wilkes-Barre. PA tor Oct Break Call Lynn x41-4220 
Volunteer needed lor Cerebral Palsy stu­dent at home 1n h1gh school Bus1ness Law and Psychology. Please call VSO: x7308 for details 
Volunteer tutor needed lor 1 0 yr old g1111n bas1c math ·adding and sublrac11ng Can meet tutor on campus Call VSO: x7308 for de!a1ls 
WANTED Trusty srdekrck tor lale·n•ghl b1cycle lnps around the greater ND·SMC grounds Must have access Ia a b1ke and be able to mooooo or quack WtU tra1n Ser~ous candrdales ~eed not apply 
Ryan.ll SJUSI notlhe same 
DAVID TERRANCE 
Your lour are fast catch1ng up Wllh Har· lem s twenty·ftve. so don't cnhctze The doggy and card are fUSI great 
Try1ng lo smrle preny. 
DONNA SUMMER 
NADER FANS Please call 6923 If you took ptctures of Mr Nader or recorded hts speech. Rephes stncerely apprectated 
Colleen Quinn is ONE CHARACTER IN SEARCH OF AN AUTHOR 
Mrke Boesch !I Are you BUMMED??? Is 11 COOL??? Give me five!!! Have a great week!!! 
NEED RIDE FOR 2 FROM NYC AFTER 4PM OCT 25 CALL 8112 OR 8113 
NORTHERN NEW JERSEY IS WHERE I WANT TO BE FOR OCTOBER BREAK. BUT I M NOT GOING TO GET THERE UNLESS YOU GIVE ME A RIDE My tar· gel area IS Nulley. but I'll take any reasonable near·mtss. Call Atleen X3445 
LONG SCROGGERS LIVES!!!!II! But nobody cares 
CHEER UP KAREN -YOU'RE WON· DERFUL!!! 
Dear T.B . Me too· very much! Always, Bo 
TEXAS CLUB T·SHIRTS ARE IN Prck up at Iafortune TONITE al 7 
JEFF. JIM. AND MIKE. 
A BELATED THANK YOU FOR 
MAKING MINE EIN HERZLICHER 
GEBURTSTAG DRS 
JOE WREN? 
JOE WHEN? 
JOE WHERE? 
JOE WHO? 
JOE WHICH? 
GET A CLUE 
JOE WICH. BAND PRESIDENT 
II all started as a small soc1al galhenng Fnends com1ng together for a dnnk. musrc. and compamonsh1p. Nobody ex­pected the b11th of a legend. Bullhen out of nowhere he came He saw a problem. a chall enge. Wha1 he saw was wrdespead alchohol abuse and he dec1ded lhalll was about lime somebody d1d someth1ng aboulll Who IS th1s man. lh1s legend, lh1s sav1or? Yes! None other than C·A·P-T·A­I·N V-0-D·K·A Yes alchoholrcs you have a protector He. hts compamon Ted and the Vodkaettes. are here to consume mass quan1111es of alchohol 1n !he hope that there Will be less lor you Though al· ready a legend. few have seen h1m. Th1s ts soon to change as the campatgn goes campusw1de CAPTAIN VODKA IS here! 
Tom Kustner--we d1dn't see you danc1ng 1n the stands dunng the MSU game What happened? For our next T K dance rout1ne watch the stands--sect1on 30 row 50 Gp tor 11 Tom! 
C1ao Ernesto and Pretro··· Thanks so much tor the tnp to Bruno·s. A good t1me was had by all..Erma---how many p1eces drd you eat. anyways? Call us if you wan! Ia do 11 agam somet1me. Yours in Togas: 
L.S. and P. 
Mary Arkoosh--· Make wool. not war in your sheep shed! 
Bucko---That w111 teach you not to 1nV1Ie us to your party. Why d1d people keep com1ng and gorng so qu1ckly? Could no slugs.. be the problem? Bener luck next lime. Buck! 
Rtders needed anywhere along 1-57 to Memph1s area Please call Laura at 6896 a.s.a.p. 
.. 

The Observer-Sports Tuesday, October 6, 1981 -page 6 
Reds, Cards-lose in split season 
By GARY MYERS 
Associated Press 
Don't tell the Cincinnati Reds or the St. Louis Cardinalsnow the split­season format in baseball created more interest down the stretch. Each had the best overall record in their divisions ip this mixed-up crazy season, but when the mini­playofts get underway today, the day ofthe second season. Cincinnati Reds and Cardinals will he home was the only team to play over .600 watching. for the entire season. 
The Reds' overall record was not The Cardinals t1nished as the run­only the best in the National League nerup to Philadelphia in the tlrst half West, but tops in baseball. They had and the Expos in the second half. hut the misfortune, however, of t1nish­overall, their record was the best in ing just a half-game behind the Los the National Lt·ague East. Cin(:innati Angeles Dodgers in the t1rst half of and St. Louis between them had two the season and then losing out to the ofthe tlve best records in the majors, Houston Astros on the next to last but now have all winter to gript· 
about the inequities of the system. 
, Before their season-ending gamt· in Cincinnati on Sunday, the entire
Sportsboard
• • • Reds team was introduced to the fans. They lined up carrying a pen­
continuedfrom page 5 
Tomorrow's Games Ph1ladelph1a (Carlton 13-4) at Montreal (Rogers 12­8). 12:05 p.m. Los Angeles at Houston, 12:05 p.m 
AMERICAN LEAGUE East 
w L Pet. GB y-MIIwaukee 62 47 569 Baltimore 59 46 .562 1 Detroit 60 49 550 2 
.._ Boston 59 49 546 2.5 x-New York 58 so .537 3.5 Cleveland 52 51 .505 7
( Toronto 37 69 349 23.5 West x-Oakland 64 45 .587 Texas 57 48 .543 5 Chicago 54 52 509 8.5 y-Kansas City 50 53 .485 11 California 51 59 464 13.5 SeaHie 44 55 444 15 Minnesota 41 68 .376 23 x-first half champion y-second hall champ1on 
• • • Tennis 
continuedfrom page 8 
l'riday was extremely tough, but it prepared us for this weekend and the Irish Invitational. And the chal­lenges this weekend got us ready for next weekend." 
The Notre Dame women are op­timistic about winning their second straight state title. .. I think we should have an excellent chance at the state crown," says Gleason. "I know I'm playing a lot better and I think the whole team is." 
After the Indiana State Tourney, the Irish and the Belles will square off for the tina! match of the fall season on October I.3. 
.. 
Yesterday's Results nant proclaiming, "Baseball's Best Kansas C1ty 9, Cleveland 0 
Record 19Hl." 
Only game scheulded END REGULAR SEASON 
FOOTBALLMJ~)~:::::::~l! 
lit.~§liD!ilillll~}ililili!J~l~i~~J~l~l~llJli~~~~ll~~l~lil~J1~!~~~Hi~~lt~i~~~;~~~~~~~~~~i~~l~~Ji~;~~~~i[iti~1ilii~l[liiii1i~l~~l~~r~~l~ijl]~
Jim Iinney
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL CONFERENCE East 
Sports Writer 
TW L T Pet. PF PA Philadelphia 5 0 01.000 106 53 
Inside Inter hall 
Dallas 4 1 0 .800 126 78 St. LOUIS 2 3 0 400 94 117 
N.Y. Giants 2 3 0 400 71 83 Wash1ngton 0 5 0 .000 77 149 
SOCCER -The Alumni soccer team won its fourth 
Central Minnesota 3 2 0 .600 103 115 game in t1ve outings Sunday, downing Keenan, 4-3. 
Tampa Bay 3 2 0 .600 96 80 
Keenan drew first blood in the game which was tied at 
Detroit 2 3 0 .400 97 99 
Green Bay 2 0 96 119 three at the end of regulation time. Pressure perfor­
3 .400 Chicago 1 4 0 200 82 109 mances on both offense and defense by the Alumni West team was the key factor in the victory as the Dogs came
Atlanta 3 2 0 .600 _122 78 Los Angeles 3 2 0 .600 123 96 through, scoring on their penalty kicks, and goalie Greg San Franc1sco 3 2 0 .600 113 106 
Caine blocked three Keenan penalty kicks. On the 
New Orleans 1 4 0 .200 50 105 
whole, the Dogs rely on a balanced attack from quite a 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
number oftalented players. Many ofthe players feel that 
East 
w L T Pet. PF PA the team has not yet achieved its full potential, but hope 
M1am1 4 0 1 .900 125 83 to do so with team-work and hard play. Alumni has yet Buffalo 3 2 0 .600 127 67 
to play some of the toughest teams on its schedule,
N.Y. Jets 1 3 1 .300 101 145 New England 1 4 0 .200 106 121 including the unbeaten division leader, Flanner I, so Balt1more 1 4 0 200 87 145 
they obviously have their work cut out for them. 
Central PINsburgh 3 2 0 .600 128 104 MEN'S FOOTBALL -After two weeks of play, this 
Cincinnati 3 2 0 600 112 112 
season has produced no suprises with Dillon leading in 
Houston 3 2 0 .600 80 82 
the South Division, Grace in the North and a tight battle
Cleveland 2 3 0 400 81 114 West in the Central. Dillon, chalking up its two wins over San D1ego 4 1 0 .800 162 120 
Fisher ( 22-0) and always-tough Morissey ( 6-2 ), looks as
Denver 4 1 0 .800 106 54 Kansas C1ty 3 2 0 .600 124 132 strong as ever. Grace, winning its t1rst game against Oakland 2 3 0 400 63 62 
Zahm ( 14-0 ), opened its second game against Stanford 
Seattle 1 4 0 200 . 68 101 
with a 65-yard dash by Willie Bostic and went on to beat
Yesterday's Result Ph1ladelph1a 16. Atlanta 13 Stanford, 12-0. St. Ed's and Cavanaugh went at it Sunday 
@U 1Rir4urll·s J}{J\1H& IHE~1Jc&N~ Open 6 days a week~:: __Just 417 DIXIEWAY-/ -~.·­North across from Wend_y's ~of Campus 277-0734 personalized Hair Desi!(nS  

SACRED HEART PARISH
-------5'NS '-------­we are now formin?a Choir for the 9: 30 Sunday Mass in the Crypt. Rehearsals are each Wednesday at 7 : 30 p. m. in the Crypt. All voices welcome --come share in a special musiical experience! All students welcome facul & staff 

Cincinnati Reds t~;am members line up on thefield prior to Sun­dav_'s game against the Brm,es, in Cincinnati, to display a pennant u•htch declares the Red's season record to be the best in baseball. Because ofthe split seasonformat, Cincinnatifailed to quali[)'fur the playoffs. (APPhoto) 
Today's Game Oakland (Norris 12-9) at Kansas C1ty (Leonard 13·11), 3:10p.m 
Non-varsity competition 
Only game scheduled Tomorrow's Games 
New York (Gu1dry 11-5) at Milwaukee (Haas 11-7). 7:10p.m. Oakland at Kansas C1ty. 2·10 p m 
Fall sports in full swing 
-------~----~~------------,
' I RIVER CITY RECORDS I 1 Northern Indiana's :..argest Selection of Albums & Tapes. I I Why pay more any ploce else? I I I 
any regul~r ~ecord or tape with od. 1I $1.00 OFF L1m 11 1 per person I
I •' Expiresocr.31 ,1981 I 
1 50970 US 31 North eOpen till 10 every night I 13 miles N~rth of Campus e ND/SMC checks cashed I1next to AI s Supermarket up to $20 over I I purchase amount · I
2
77-4242 • Record Crates available I 
.. 
--------------------------· 
L.J II...LOI'L-'"' 
Special Guest:SAN'TAN'A 
PITTSBURGH CLUB Tues~ay -.December 1, 1981 * 7:30p.m. Pontlac S1lverdome * Pontiac, Michigan
all Break Bus Sign-ups 
$1.00 OFF! 
All Rolling Stones
Tuesday, Oct. 6 7:00pm 
ill.d Santanl llbums illd tapes now at both
LaFortune Little Theater 
River City Records 
leave Friday, Oct. 16 5:00p.m Limited number of patkage tickets now on sale &t River City Records

Friday, Oct. 23 1:00 pm 
50970 ta 31 Jrorth Sunday, Oct. 25 1:00pm For more information call 277·4242 
-Call IKE at 1581, ., ,; .· 
···.: ::. :;. :· .· '• :: .. . :;: :l: ::: ;: .· ·. ·: :~ ;: :· . 
to decide who would be the Central Division leader only to end in a 6-6 tie, leaving the the two tied for t1rst ( 1-0-1 ) with three other teams (Off-Campus, Holy Cross and Carrol) tied for third with 1-1 records. 
Here are the standings through yesterday: 
North Central Grace 2-0 St. Ed's 1-0-1 Keenan 1-0 Cavanaugh 1-0-1 Stanford 0-1 Off-Campus 1-1-0 Flanner 0-1 Holy Cross 1-1-0 Zahm 0-1 Carrol 1-1-0 
Sorin 0-2-0 This weeks schedule: Tomorrow's Games St. Ed's vs. Carrol, 7 p.m. (Cartier) 
South Dillon 
2-0 Alumni 1-0 Fisher 1-1 Morrissey 0-1 Pangborn 0-2 
Cavanaugh vs. Holy Cross, 8 p.m. (Cartier) 
Off-Campus vs. Sorin, 9 p.m. (Cartier) 
Sunday's Games Stanford vs. Flanner, 1 p.m. (Stepan) Morrissey vs. Alumni, 2 p.m. (Stepan) Cavanaugh vs. Sorin, 3 p.m. (Stepan) 
WOMEN'S FOOTBALL -This past week Breen­Phillips rolled over Badin, 25-0. The exposive offense of Breen-Phillips has outscored it opponents, 76-12 in four games. A tough match-up this week pits B-P against Off-Campus, a game which could decide the eventual division title. 
Here are the standings through yesterday: 
Breen-Phillips  4-0  
Off-Campus  .3-J  
Pasquerilla East  3-1  
Farley  .3-1  
Pasquerilla West  2-2  
Walsh  l-2  
Lewis  1-.3  
Lyon3  0-4  
Badin  0-4  
MEN'S NOVICE TENNIS  - The  

t1nal will be played this week be­tween Barry Fay and Pat Toole. Fay, who played his semit1nal match yes­terday with a broken thumb on his racquet hand, defeated Ted Dore 6­2, 6-2 to advance. Toole knocked off Greg Koch in straight sets, 6-0, 6-0. 
CO-REC SOFTBALL -As the double-elimination softball tourna­ment winds down, the competition between the few remaining teams gets tough. This week "BP and the Big Sticks" will play "Smash & Co." for the championship of the losers bracket. The winner of this game will play "No Names" for the tourna­ment title. For game times and loca­tions, contact your hall athletic commissioner. 
VOLLEYBALL -As the men's in­terhall volleyball tournement also comes to a close, "Carrol Hall" plays "Drink, Smoke and Spike" for the championship ofthe winner's brack­et. 
In the women's division, the "Girls" from Breen-Phillips captured the crown by beating "Farley." 
DEADLINES -October 14 is the deadline for signing up for the following non-varsity events: 
lnterhall Handball lnterhall Racquetball Singles, Men and Women Grad­Fac Raquetball 
Singles, Men and Women Co-Ree Volleyball Co-Rec Basketball Faculty Volleyball Grad Volleyball 
The Observer 7:------____-:--c.-_--_~-=-=-­
T0 day=======================::;T-=u=e=sd=a=y=,(=)=ct=o=b=er=6=·'=1=9=8=1==pa=g=e=7:::; 
Molarity 
:r: HVl R VID~R ISON A.NP 
IH£ TOXIC WA.5TES M!~tiT 
COI-1£:: TD N. f). SDHEIIH&. 



· 

Michael Molinelli 
7J.IE." C.OIJC:.ERT5 ItER£ L4iELY 1-l<\\.fN BEEN PRETTY Ft:cR ,. , L.DOK;THEDOOJ31~ MI5THcR5 AREA\ 'r EVEN BRIJTHEM AND Til£' l£At:H BoY.S HAVE l5E:EAJ 


l}{EY liU. WfiiJT 71:J {JE f?lltiK,~5.lJNi! I'VE 5EEIJ /3E7TER Ci/8 · 5(.0UT5 ... I'H 60111!6 TO 
6ET II J}f!lfJ)(. LET Me KNOw. 5£1f6EIIrJT. I 
/ 

ACROSS 30 Go, old 1 Red planet style 5 Lip 34 Sweetheart, 9 Lea sound for short 
12 Omnium· 35 Nobleman 
gatherum 37 Male and 13 Way out female 14 A votre-38 QED part 16 Kind of 40 Boredom 
verb 42 Calendar 18 Student aid abbr. 19 Stage 43 Rubber 
direction 45 US admiral 20 Absorbing 46 Be menda· 22 Dinner cious 
course 47 Bends 24 Garment 49 Roof pieces of India 51 Comp. pt. 25 Haggard 52 Gait book 54 Winter 28 Graf-white 
Monday's Solution 



56 Well-fixed 21 Snatch 60 Muscle 23 Lowly affliction laborers 64 Archie or 25 Ledge 
Marianne 26 Occurring 65 Fooling every sixty 67 Turns white minutes 68 King of 27 Growing out 
Israel 29 A Ford 69 European 31 Skating nation jumps 70 "Mary-a 32 Military little ..." caps 71 Rue de Ia-33 Ms Lauder 72 Ebbed 36 Despondency 39 Woven DOWN 41 Has a 
1 Additional problem 2 A Haley 44 King of 3 Prevailing Persia 4 Alone, on 48 Trifle 
the boards 50 Hernando 5 Multiply de­by six 53 Company 6 Reference 55 Grew line: comb. 56 Gremlin 
form 57 A Webster 7 Hindu god 58 Montez of 8 British movies 
guns 59 Arizona 9 Aluminum city ores 61 Unlucky 10 Con Roman 11 Like-of number bricks 62 Anent 14 Cubic 63 Hoary meters 66 Prefix for 15 Work unit angle or 17 Slaughter pod 
Campus 
e 12: I 'i p.m. -lccwrc:, "arc: the angiosperms 
rimitivdy vl·ssellcss? ",pro[ david a. yound, univ. of illinois, galvin !if(: science:, sponsored hy hiology dept. e I:00 to 'i:OO p. -make-up photo day, make:up days tl>r faculty/staff photo dirn·tory, c-4H,acc.( inside: gate one:), ad\'ance registration not requirnl. e -.<),I I p.m. -tilm, "casablanca", cngillt:cring aud.. sponsored by geology club. e -., "i p.m. -gl·nnal meeting. gnman dub meeting -ll'durl' on gt-rman ti1reign policy. dr. ronald kom mer. -~.~I o'shag. • -:_->,0 p.m. -general meeting. mem. library auditorium. ~pon~ornl hy Iallie~ of not n· dame. e -:·'>0 p.m. -meeting. faculty ~cnatl' mtTting. 202 continuing center ti1r t·dut·ation e H:OO p.m.-theolog\ dept. lctlUt'l'. "the lord'~ prayer". prof. bo reickt·. ha~c:l ~wil.lerland. galvin auditorium. 
e H:OO p.m. lt·ctun·. "higher education. change~. and cominuitil·~. laun·nn· H'\'st·y, u. of calif.. 'anta cruz, lTe ami., sponsornl by history dept. 
• H: I 'i p.m. -UllllTrt. !Ill' Vl'rtkhr trio, annen­hcrg auditorium, snite art mu~t·um, ~ponsored hy univer~ity artbt series. 
Televisior1 Tor1ight 
6:00p.m 22 !.1. l'y~:witneils nt·ws 46 I.I'SI'A Tekthon. All Ni!(ht 7:00p.m. 16 MBI. lnsic.k Look/National l.l'agu~: 
Division Playoff' 22 Dukt·s of lla1.ard 28 llappy Dap ( pr~:mint·) 34 Cosmos 
34  t ldyss~:y 1.01.  
9:00P.M.  28  IIart to Itart ( prt'mit·r~:)  
34  Thl'  Dud1~:ss  of l>ukt·  ~tn·t·t:  from  
\I asterpiect· Tilt' a In  
10:00 p.m.  22  21. Eyewitness News  
34  The Dkk Cavell Show  
10:30 P.M.  16  Nt·wsCt·nter 16  
22  Alict'!Mt·Uoud  
28  ABC News Nightlint·  
34  ABC Captioned News  
II:00 p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
28  l'antasy bland  
12:00 P.M.  I6  Tomorrow Coast to Coast  

Today in History 
Today's highlight in history: In 161-1:'>. thl' tlrst German settlers in America arrived in Philaddphia. 
On this date:: 
In IH-1H. Austria dc:clan·d war on llungary. 
In ll)'iH. the American nuclear submarine "Seawolf' surfaced off New England after establish­ing a world record hy remaining submerged for two months. 
In Il)7H, ml·llical rl·searchc:rs in Calcutta, India, announced the birth of thl· world's second test­tube baby. 
1-'iVl' years ago: President ford and lkmocratic challenger Jim my Carter hdd the prc:sidl·ntial campaign's second nationally tdc:vised debate:. 
One: year ago: China accusc:d the Sovkt Union of instigating a dash on the: Mongolian horder, the tlrst known incident between the: two C::ommunist nations in more: than a year. 
: Take a study break and relax a bit with
•
: Abraham and Moses 
•. The tunes are mellow and a spiritual 
• theme. 
•~ TONIGHT 
:•:  "Florida? For $4?" Student Union invites you to a suitcase party.  :• :  
•.  sat., Oct. 10  .•  
•. e  9-lam at Century Center  • •  

e e T" e
e CHAUTAUQUA--7·30--FREE''' e tckets at s.u. e 
-
·­
--· -------------------------------------------=:----------­

Tailback Bell follo-ws in fine tradition 
By DAVE DZIEDZIC
-
Sports Writer 
Scene: Oct. l 1, 1980. Miami (Fla.) invades Notre Dame Stadium with the nation's top-ranked defense against the run. 1n four games thus far, the Hurricanes have allowcd on­ly I "i ..::; yards per game on the ground. As if that isn't enough, the Irish are without the services of tail­back Phil Carter, who bruised his thigh last wcek against Michigan State. In only three games so far this scason, Carter has amassed 499 yards -the second-highest total in the nation. jim Stone, a senior who has played in the shadow of Vegas Fcrguson for three years, is called upon to carry the ball for the Irish. Stone responds tremcndously, carrying .38 times for 224 yards as Notre Dame runs away with a 32-14 victory. After the game, Stone com­ments, "Replacing a great runner like Phil was a challcnge but I was ready and so was our line." 
Scene: Oct. 3, 1981. Michigan State visits Notre Dame Stadium. The Irish have lost two games ,in a row, and despcrately need a big vic­tory. junior co-captain and starting tailback Phil Carter carries the ball on the first four Irish plays, but leaves the game with a sprained anklc. Sophomore Greg Bell takes over at tail hack, rushes for 165 yards on 20 carrit:s, and scores two touch­downs. Ttl~· Irish finally get the of­
fense going en routl' to a 20-7 victory. After the game, Bell com­ments, "Our line played great today. Alii had to do was run." 
Greg Bell credits the offensive line with his success on Saturday, but the Columbus, Ohio, native has the tools to make it on his own. At 6-0, 22S pounds, Bell has the size and strength necessary for a power­ful tailback. But Greg is quick to point out that his speed is his 
greatest weapon. "I can run over a lot of guys," he says, "but that's not my style ofrunning." 
Indeed, Bell is a quick runner. Last track season, he was a team leader in the sprints. He has been at 6.3 seconds in the 60-yard dash. Notre Dame Track Coach joe Piane says, 
-+ "Greg is a great runner. And the more Greg runs, the quicker he'll get." Piane points out that Bell earned his first varsity monogram in track and field, not football. Besides his success in the sprints, Greg had a team-best long jump of 24-feet last season. This coming track season, he will again compete in the sprints and the long jump, and perhaps in the hurdles. How has running track helped Bell on the football field? "It's helped a great deal," he says. "Running in the indoor season helped me to im­prove my form, speed, and flexibility." Greg has never been a one-sport athlete. As a senior in high school Greg captained the football, track, and basketball teams. He rushed for over 1400 yards in his last two high school football seasons. As a basket­ball guard, Greg averaged 1 5 points and seven assists a game. In last year's Bookstore Basketball Tourna­ment, his team, T.P.S., competed in the finals. Bell is Notre Dame's leading rus­her this season. In four games, he has rushed for 285 yards on 41 carries, an average ofseven yards per carry. He has also returned four kickoffi; for an average of 20.7 yards a return. Offensive backfield coach Greg Blache has no problem explaining Greg's success. "Greg has improved tremendously. He has a terrific 
awarcness of how to run and where to run." Blache agrees that Bell's par­ticipation in track and field has played a significant role in his foot­ball success. "Whenever a player takes part in a track program, it helps him improve." 
When discussing his achieve­ments, Bell is quick to point out his frit:ndship with first-string tailback Phil Carter. "Phil and I are good friends," he says. "Our competition is very healthy for both of us. We have a lot of confidence in each other." 
Greg stresses that his relationship with Carter has helped him to relax on the field. "In high school," he says, "I was reluctant to take myself out ofa game because I wasn't sure if the guy behind me could do the job. Put here at Notre Dame, I know that Phil can do the job if I'm not playing. That's very important." 
Blache couldn't be happier with the Bell-Carter situation. ''I'm one of the more fortunate coaches," he says. "Phil and Greg get along very well. They know each other's moves and complement each other beauti­fully. Both of them are very unsel­fish, and each waits for his own numbcr to be called. And that makes my job a lot easier." 
Once again, Bdl credits the of­fensive lint: for much of his success last Saturday. "When the blocking is grcat. the running will be great," hc says. "Everyone dreams of having a big day, and I am very proud of my performance on Saturday. But the line deserves a lot ofcredit." 
Sccne: Oct. l 0, 1981. Florida State 
visits Notre Dame Stadium for the 
first time ever. Phil Carter is ready, 
and the Irish offense appears to be 
back on track. And now that Greg 
Bell has proven himself, Irish fans 
can once again rest assured that the 
tailback position is in good hands. 


Tuesday, October 6, 1981 -page 8 
As two Michigan State defenders give chase, sophomore tailback Greg Bell breaks into the clear on his 32-yard touchdown run midway through the third quarter. Bell scored two touch-
Irish Invitational 
Irish women capture title 
/By ROBERT W ALS!f first time Notre Dame has won the Sports Writer Invitational. I thought the tcam played very well," said Petro. "The The Notre Dame women's tennis Invitational provides good prepara­team captured the Fifth Annual Irish tion for the state tournament in In­Invitational yesterday. The Irish, dianapolis this Saturday. And we who won 32 out oftheir 36 matches, must win the state title in order to were followed closely by Eastern qualify for the Nationals." Michigan and Western Michigan, Freshman Lisa Gleason was Notre with 29 and 28 match wins Dame's lone champion in singles '· respectively. St Mary's College competition. "I didn't expect to win finished fifth, with 1 1 victories to the number four singles. I thought their credit. the competition would be too dif­Irish coach Sharon Petro was ficult," said Gleason." "When I was pleased with victory. "This is the warming up against WMU (Janet 
Cats become top dogs 
It had to happen. 
After Northwestern's awesome 0-64 loss to Iowa, many Bottom Ten voters wanted to call off the rest of the season and declare the Wildcats national champs. One enterprising voter came up with an alternate plan, however. It is unique, innovative, trend-setting, and voters approved it overwhelmingly. 
The season will be split into a first half and a second half. Northwesterrt has been declared the first half champ, and the teams will now start over with 0-0 records. It is hoped tliat the split-season concept will add excitement and build fan interest as the season comes to a close later this fall. 
The game that prompted this daring move was one of the finest in the history of the Bottom Ten. The Cats rushed 31 times, gaining an amazing seven inches per carry. At that rate, it would have taken them just 52 plays to gain a first down. 
One Cat had a very disappointing day, however. A running back by the name of Watkins carried the ball just six times, piling up an incredible 1044 inches. Coach Dennis "It's hard to believe this game started at 0-0" Green says he's so despondent over Watkins' per­formance that he may relegate the speedster to the bench. 
The Ivy League ended the first halfof the season on a hopeful note. Two newcomers to the Bottom Ten, Cor­nell and Brown, signalled a new era of mediocrity. Old stand-bys Penn and Columbia played each other in a 
gargantuan battle. Penn's Quakers avenged last year's 
pathetic win over the the Lions by dropping this year's 
contest, 9-20. 
The level ofcompetition in the first halfofthe season 
was fierce, as is evidenced by records ofthe 14 teams in 
the poll this week. Theircombined ledger is 2-53-1, and 
l 1 of the 14 teams have perfect records. 
So, here are the final standings for the first half ofthe 
split season. 
1) Northwestern (0-4)-the pride of the Big Ten 
2) Stanford (0-4)-the Cornell ofthe West 
3) Texas-El Paso (0-4) -at least UTEP lost to Utah, not University ofTexas-Arlington Heights 
4) Virginia (0-4)-debut for Yahoos 
5) Tulane (0-4) -Coach Vince Gibson called last "week's match-up with Rice "The Desperation Bowl" 
6) State ofColorado (2-10) -Colorado State ( 0-4 ), Colorado ( 1-3 ), Air Force ( 1-3) 
7) Cornell (0-3)-Stanford ofthe East 
8) Brown (0-3) -Back to back losses to Army and Princeton 
9) Maine (0-4-1)-shut out by Lafayette 
10) (tie) North Texas State (0-5) (tie) West CaroUna (0-4) (tie) Eastern Michigan (0-4) -teams that 
would be states 
Also receiving votes: Oklahoma (1-1-1) BowUng Green (0-4) 
Quote ofthe Week: 
Alabama coach Paul "Bear" Bryant: "I don't know 
what I mean. Well, I know what I mean; I just don't 
know how to say it. I'm gonna do what I think ought to 
be done. That worked pretty well when 1was doing it." 
Ray), I knew it would be my tough­est match. But I managed to win, 6-.3, 1-6, 6-0." 
Notre Dame's top three singles players, Lisa Lafratta, Linda Hoyer, and Carol Shukis, all tinished second with individual match records of 5­
I. 
Both Notre Dame doubles teams proved to bc unbcatable. Senior Tina Stephen and sophomore Pam Fischette grabbed the number one doubles crown. "Both of us were really pleased with our victory,"said Fischette. "We thought we had a chance coming into the tournament, but Tina and I only began playing to­gether this fall. In Saturday's state tourney, I'll be playing numbcr three singles and Tina and I will be playing at number two doubles." 
The freshman combination of Laura Lee and Camille Cooper won the numbcr two doubles title. They will be teaming up again at number three doubles for the states while Lee will be playing number five singles. 
St. Mary's College finished with a team record o(. 1-5, with II team points. Accounting for four of those points were the number one doubles team of Debbie Laverse and Maureen Fitzgerald. Laverse and Fitzgerald won four of their six matches in the tourney. 
Other teams in the competition included Ferris State, who finished fourth in the competition with 14 points; Marquette, who was sixth with 9 team points, and Central Michigan, who placed last with 3 points. 
While thc Notre Dame netters captured the fourth singles and both doubles, other players distinguished themselves. WMU Sue Weigand and Nancy Martin won the number one and two singles titles respectively. Traci Varken went undefeated in her number three singles spot and took that crown home for EMU. 
The entire Notre Dame team is looking forward to the Indiana State Division II Championship on Friday and Saturday, October 9-10. " It seems like each time we played we were looking towards the state tour­ney," summarized number one singles player, LaFratta. "The com­petition against Northwestern last 
See TENNIS, page 6 
