'Ballgame ' -page 4
' ' ' 


VOL XVI. NO. 6H an mdc:-pc:-ndenr student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1981 

Sever discusses U.S. steel industry 
l:(litor 's note: Observer refxnter 
Vit· SciuJ/i recmt(~· 1111!1 u>ith Setzior 
Pmfiklhility An~ll~·st Christine 
St't'er of lnlmul Steel to clismss the currelll state of the steel ilulustn•. Set•er. a Notre /Jame gmtlluile, uoas illt'ittvl as a guest lecturer ~· the-­Col/egt• of/Justness Atlminisration. 
Q:Can you elaborate un the deal betu·et•n U.S. Sled tmd .'11ara/h(m Uil? 


Christine Sever 
A:Not working for U.S. Steel, 

don't know all the details but my un­
derstanding is that U.S. Steel was just 
sitting on a pile of money and it was 
pretty well cstablisht•d that they 
were shopping around for a poten­
tial merger. Some of their money 
was al:qulred, I believe, by selling 
some of their coal reserves. Marat· 
hon was a perfect target; they had 
been sought after before. One of the 
primt· reasons many analysts (GIVE) 
for their attraction is the fact that 
they (Marathon Oil) own the Yates 
Property, one of the largest oil finds 
in recent y~rs. Part of the lJ.S. Steel agreement is that even if the deal does not go through, they have the option on the Yates Property. 
Q:Can you give us an ana~ysis of the current state of the steel in­dustry? Production for the week en­dir~g Nov. 14 was 81.7/, up 0.71 from tbe u•eek before but dou•n 151 fmm lastyear. 
A:Stn:l is in a soft market right 
now. l')80 was probably the worst 
year for steel. The market did im­
prove in the beginning of 1981, 
showing strong ~ales. It's softening 
again and analysts are thinking that 
this is the double dip of the douhlc 
dip recession that was being talked 
about. In terms of reasons for the 
decline:, there arc: yuite a few. Num­
ber one: imports that art· tlooding 
the market. In Sept., of all the steel 
that was sold, 2"1/ was from foreign 
sources. Anotht·r n·ason was that 
auto sales arc: down and auto com­
panies are big customers for steel. Thirdly, it's a cyclical business as well. 
Q:Hou· are U.S. steelmakers dealing withjaparwse imports? 
A:The trigger-price: mechanism. What it is attempting to do is to reg­ulate on a self-initiation basis the im­ports that are coming into this country. We have Japanese and European producers who are facing over-capacity in their homelands. Their governments either own the steel companies or heavily subsidize them and their objective is to keep employment up in their homes. The result of this is to keep producing the steel and to keep the volume coming out. If the only way to keep the volume coming out is to dump or to sell below their production costs to the U.S., which is one of the largest free markets left for steel, that's what they'll do. What the trigger-price: mechanism attempts to do is to establish a price that is a fair representation of production costs at an efficient mill. When the 
See SEVER, page 4 


Holocaust suroivor and author Elie Wiesel ad­dresses a Washington Hall audier~ce or~faitb and 
'Biblical approach' 

Wiesel offers Holocaust views 
By PAUL McGINN 
News Staff 

"Unless we remember, the future: 
is lost." With these words, Elie Wiesel, internationally acclaimed Jewish scholar, summed up his Bibli­cal approach to the Nazi Holocaust. 
In introducing Wiesel, jam~s Langford, the director of the Univer­sity Press remarked that Wiesel was the "greatest storyteller of our time:." Fr. 'Hesburgh dtcd Wiesel's 
,
'Intestinal bypass 



Chemical diet prolongs life 
By ED McCULLOUGH 
Associated Press 

ALBANY, N.Y. (AP) -Jim Fronk is on a permanent chemical diet -a mixture of proteins, dextrose, vitamins and minerals injected into his jugular vein ­that has virtually rcplat:ed solid food. 
For I 0 years, the 41-ycar-old Fronk, a production line foreman at General Electric, suffered from Crohn's Disease, an inflammation of the lower intestine. He had operations, blood transfusions, vitamin and mineral shots, and imravenous feeding. When the last of his in­testines was 
rc:movd four years ago, he weighed 82 pounds. 
"At that point, I couldn't get out 


of bed. The chemicals in my body were all our of whack," said Fronk. "I thought I'd never get out of the hospital alive." 
Hundreds ofpeople: nationwide:, whose intestines arc: 
damaged by disease, find themselves in the same 
predicament. Until recently, there was no way to 
replace the intestines' function of digesting tood and 
providing nourishment. 

Now, about 90 hospitals across the country, includ­
ing Albany Medical Center Hospital, have developed a 
way for people 10 live on chemicals. 
The program is called Home Total Parenteral Nutri­
tion ( HTPN ), "parenteral" meaning that the: intestines 
are bypassed, said Dr. Lyn Howard, director of clinical 
nutrition at Albany Medical College, which is affiliated 
with the hospital. 

"HTPN only goes back 20 years," said Ms. Howard, 
founder of the hospital's 7-year-old program. The first 
attempt to keep someone alive entirely on a diet of 
chemicals was done at the: University ofPennsylvania in 
I968, she said. 

Fronk is one of about 20 HTPN patients who travel from as far as Syracuse, about 140 miles away, and east­ern Massachusetts to the medical center. At home, he mixes his own solution and, for up to 12 hours a day, hooks himself up to a machine that drips food into his veins. 
Today, Fronk weighs close to his normal ISO pounds and is hclthy enough to work with a volunteer fire com­pany and take his son hunting. 
Only about 500 people nationwide arc on HTPN programs, according to Maureen Brady, administrative assistant for the New York Academy ofMcdidnc's Com­mittee on Public Health. 
But for those who need it, HTPN can be the dif­
ference between life and death, and between life at 
home and life in a hospital. 
"It's a question of the quality of life:, and life itself," 
said former truck driver Don Young, 41. "I can't go 48 
hours without it. I don't have enough intestinal surface 
to digest and absorb solid food. 
For 6 years, Young, whose intestine was cut to 18 
inches, has been treated at the hospital. Today, he's 
healthy enough to chop wood on his Saratoga County 
farm, serve: as councilman on the local town board, and 
take care of two young children. 
The cost of treatment is usually picked up by Medicaid ( 80 percent) or Medicare ( I 00 percent). For Fronk and Young, Medicaid plus private insurance pick up the tab. 
"I cook for my two kids. I'm not going to just watch 
them cat," said Young. He: and Fronk eat small amounts 
ofsolid food, although neither gets much nourishment 
from it. 
See HTPN, page 5 

internment in four Nazi con,:cntra­tion camps, and called the author "the spiritual archivist of the Holocaust." 
Last night. over 300 people: gathered in Washington Hall to hear Wiesel, Andrew Mellon Professor at Boston University, present his per­sonal feelings behind his new book, Five Biblical Portraits. An account of Saul, Jonah, jeremiah, Elijah, and joshua, the work centers on the humanity of these great figures of the Bible. 
Wiesel said the Bible portrays heroes as " the more human they are, the greater they arc ...even if it means weaknesses and shortcom­ings." 
In this same vein, Wiesel stated that writing about the Holocaust, is an "act of faith," combining "what the reader understands, and what the writer wants to say ...What we want to say cannot be said ... but we must speak for humanity." 
Maintaining that he writes not for the dead, nor for the: survivors, but for future generations, Wiesel said, "We must fight anti-Semitism ...we must fight it for mankind." 
"There: are so many victims, so many sufferers," as millions con­tinue to suffer the plights of war and famine. "A certain fatality" sur­rounds the progress of today's events; the only way to save the world is "to tell our story." 
Wiesel commented on the great understanding between Christians and jews as the horrors of the Holocaust "affect us on all levels ... I think it's symbolic -the common bond -our faith -now our belief 
See WIESEL, page 4 



Reagan hints at break for air controllers 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan, lamenting that he has become "estranged from labor," asked AFL-CIO leaders for a fresh start yesterday and promised, for his part, that he will review the mass firings ofair traffic controllers. 
While the president was not specific on the issue, he did not rule out the possibility that the I I ,500 controllers who were fired after an illegal strike Aug. 3 might be allowed back in the airport towers. 
Deputy press secretary Larry Speakes quoted Reagan as telling the AFL-CIO leadership in an hour-long meeting that "I never anticipated I would be estranged from labor with all the years I put in as a union mem­ber." 
"This would be a good point for us to consider starting over. We need (:onsultations to get this country moving again," Reagan was quoted as saying. 
A day earlier, Reagan told leaders of the Teamster union he was considering whether to lift a three-year ban on any federal employment for the fired controllers. On Wed­nesday, according to the AFL-CIO contingent, he went a step further and said he "will review" the entire issue:, including, presumably, whether to reinstate the: controllers. 
Speakes sought at a midday brief­ing, however, to minimize the pos­sibility that the: controllers will be returned to their old jobs. 
"That has not been diSt·ussed. We haven't reached that point," he said. "There are no plans now to put them (the: controllers) back in the towers." 
Speakes agreed that Reagan did not rule that out, though the yues­tion "did not come: up specifically." 
But in a formal statement later, AFL-CIO president Lane Kirkland said the union leaders "urged returning these workers to their jobs so as to restore normal air traffic service as soon as possible, spare the 
See LABOR, page 4 

\ 
I 
I 
I 

News Brie_b 

bv The Oh.ri'rt't'r and The Associated Pre.r.r 
The United Way campaignat Notre Dame con­

tinued a ncb tradition this year by exceeding the annual goal. Gifts totaling more than H 20,000 or I 01 percent of the goal were tab­ulated as contributions continued. Co-chairmen Brian Walsh and Walter Miller reported participation by more than 1,600 members of the faculty and staff. They credited the early success of the cam­paign to the total cooperation of all division chairmen and an in­tensive campaign ofpublicity highlighted by a special film produced on the campus. The 1981 goal was I5.5 percent greater than the 1980 goal on the campus. The gifts will be added to the St. joseph County campaign where workers are seeking to raise S2.75 million· for use by several agencies. -The Observer 
Creativity in American business and in­

dustry is an endangered view according to a book, False Profits, published by the University ofNotre Dame Press. Author Thomas P. Carney, a Notre Dame trustee and president of the Chicago-based Metatech Company, contends that a number offactors, among them government over-regulation ad management emphasis on quick profits, have stifled the imagination, entrepreneurship and in­ventiveness that have been a national resource. Carney's solution is for the federal government to put one billion dollars into a venture capital fund and contract with independent inventors for a percent­age ofthe profits. Inventors could obtain patents and commercialize their investments any way they see fit "The return to the nation would be in the creation of new jobs, the availability of new products, the strengthening of the entire economy," argues Carney, whose own firm develops products based on high technology. The government's role is essen~ial, Carney believes, because private en­terprise has lost its capacity to take risks and industry lacks apprecia­tion for anr idea originating outside its own research effort. Notre Dame Press also published Carney's first book,Instant Evolution, a study of ethical dilemmas caused by modern medical miracles.The . 
Observer 

The Ancient Order ofHiberians, the lar­
gest fraternal organization of Irish-Americans, and its Ladies' Auxil­Iary, have awarded an initial endowment grant of SIO,OOO to the Charles and Margaret Hall Cushwa Center for the Study ofAmerican Catholicism at Notre Dame. With the AOH endowment, the Cushwa Center will underwrite a series of lectures and seminars on various aspects oflrish-American history. The first ofthe Hibernian Lectures has already been scheduled for March 30 ofnext year, when Patrick Blessing, a professor of history from the University of Tulsa will speak at Notre Dame. A $60,000 undergraduate scholarship fund was recently established at Notre Dame by the AOH and its Ladies' Auxiliary for children of the members of both organizations. -The Observer 
Dr. Kwang-Tzu Yang, professor of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering at the University of Notre Dame, has been named one of three recipients of the 1981 Heat Transfer Memorial Award given by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. 
Yang is noted for his contributions to Notre Dame's UNDSAI'E project -a computer code describing the spread ofsmoke and fire. His 2 5 years of research have made lasting contributions in the heat transfer fields of nonlinear conduction, external and internal con­vection, and turbulence modeling. His research has received fun­ding from the National Science Foundation, the National Bureau of 
Standards and the U.S. Department ofTransportation. 

Aformer chairman ofNotre Dame's Department ofAerospace and Mechanical Engineering, Yang received bachelor's, master's, and doctorate degrees from the Illinois Institute ofTechnology. He was named an award recipient with Ared Cezairliyan of the National Bureau ofStandards and Ivan Catton ofthe University ofCalifornia at Los Angeles.-The Observer ~ 
Parents sayEleanor Nathan welcomed their children into her California day care home with a hug and a kiss. But police say that once they were inside she punched, kicked and choked them, and she now is charged with killing one infant and abusing 20 others. Bail was set at $250,000 for Mrs. Nathan, 35, who did not enter a plea at her arraignment Tuesday in Mt. Diablo Municipal Court. She was charged with one count of murder and 18 felony and two mis­demeanor counts of willful cruelty toward children. Mrs. Nathan was arrested Monday after a two-month police and sheriff's depart­ment investigation. Authorities closed the day care center on Sept 
24. It had operated for four years illegally without a license, said Assistant District Attorney joe Campbell. Court documents showed Mrs. Nathan lost a license to operate a day care center in South San Francisco in the early 1970s. A year-old boy died of "abdominal in­juries" while under her care in 1973 but no charges were filed against her, said Campbell. -AP 
Mostly cloudy and cold with a chance for light snow or flurries through Friday. Lows Thursday night in the upper 20's. Highs Thursday and Friday in the mid 30's. Chance for measurable snow 20 percent Thursday and 40 percent Thursday night. -AP 
Thursday, December 3, 1981 -page 2 
CADETS STRIKE: 
Polish firefighter school trainees stage sit-in strike in northern Warsaw in response to deteriorating economic conditions and rising food prices in Poland. Cadets passed leaflets to passers-by while police surround the building. 


AP 

Photo File 


f-The_Ohseryer_ 
Design Editor ....................... Monica Gugle Design Assistants .............. Randy Rentner Mike McCaughey Typesetters..........................)im MacLennan AI Novas News Editor ................................... KeUi Flint CopyEditors................... Tom Melsheimer Joe Musumeci Sports Copy Editor ............. Skip Desjardin Typist .................................... )ohn McCanhy Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor ......................... David Grole SMC Day Editor ....................... Cece Baliles Ad Design .............................. Fran and Mark Photographer ..................... Nick DeCandia Guest Appearances ................... The Usuals 
and The Unusuals We're havin' a pany jus! Kos DMM The'Admen 


===Ihe_-Obsen!er== 
Founded November 3, 1966 

POLICE READY: One thousand Polish riot police armed with shields prepare to surround the firefighter cadets to force them to cease their strike. 
BUILDING TAKEN: 
Special police units take roof of school after ninety minute siege. Three hundred protesting cadets were oustedfrom the training school. 
PROTESTORS CHEERED ON: 

A crowd ofseven thousand cheer the captured cadet protestors as they are bussed from the school by riotpolice. See related story on page 3. 

DANCE THE NIGHT AWAY 
Qt mARDI GRAS 
Dancers sign up 
Thurs -North Dining Hall -Dinner Fri -LaFortune . 
At All Times -Student Activity Office 
Editorial Board 

Editor-in-Chief............................. .john McGrath 
Executive News Editor......................... Kelli Flint Sports Editor ..............................Michael Ortman News Editor..................................Tim Ven·ellotti
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Photo Editor ............... ; ....................... .john Macor
News Editor............................. David Rickabaugh
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily SMC Executive Editor........... Mary Agnes Care} 
Editorials Editor.......................Anthony Walton
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­
SMC News Editor...................... Cathy Domanico Features Editor .........................Gregory Swiercz
ed a~ a~curately and_ as _objectively as possibl~. Edit?r!als represent the opinion of 
a maJonty of the Ed1tonal Board. Commentanes, opm1ons and letters are the views Department Managers
of their authors .. Column sl;'ace is_a~ailable to all members of the community, and 
Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola Production Manager................... Michael Monk
the free expressiOn of varymg opm10ns on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Controller ............................................ .joe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom Maclennan Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)283-8661 
-----------------------~------------------~-------------------------­
The Observer Thursday, December 3, 1981 -page 3 
After raid 


Solidarity orders national alert 
WARSAW, Poland (AI') Solidarity ordered a nationwide alert ami t·allnl its leaders into emer­gency session yesterday after Polish commandos ~tormeJ a tirdighters' school. routed prote~ting cadets and arreMcd nine unionists. 
Solidarity chid Lech Walcsa or­dernl local chapters to await word from national leaders before dcdar­ing a ~trikt·, and t·autiont·d them to he on the guard for other police ac­
tion~. 
'>olidarity's Warsaw chapter con­'iidt·rt·d a gent·ral strike call for its <JOO,OOO-memher region, hut said it would await the release of Seweryn Jaworski, one of the unionists seized at the schooL 
No casualties resulted in the lJO­minutc raid -begun when the com­mandos jumped onto the roof of the five-story building from a huge helicopter, and burst through street­level doors at l 0 a.m. 
"It was non-vioknt and we of­fert•d no resistance to give them an ex<.·ust·," said one of the .~20 cadets ousted after a week-long occupa­tion. "They didn'r heat us. they just 

Student Senate passes trial keg proposition 
By MARK ROLFES 
StaffReporter 
The Student Senate discussed the 
possibility of a new student co-op and a resolution on the age old issue of kegs yesterday. The Senate first dist·ussed the possibility of a co-op on the site of the now dost·d bar, Goost·s. It would serve the neighboring community as well as studt·nts, a move whkh Student Body Prt·sidt·nt Don Murday said would improve tics with the South Bend community. 
The need for a co-op ha~ risen since off­~.:ampus student~> living in that area have no grocery ~tore nearby. and they find it dilllcull to gt:l to one if tht·y do not have a car. 
The St·nate thl.'n discussnl and un­
animously pa~sed Senate Resolution 
IO'i, which proposes a trial period 
allowing kegs in party r()oms next 
semestcr. aftt•r which thcrc would 
be an cvaluation and dccision on the 
permanency of kegs in party rooms. 
Tht· proposcd rules for the experi­
ment would allow kegs only in hall 
party rooms. SptTial passes would 
bc nt·edt·d to get the kegs on campus 
aswdL 
Somc autonomy will also be given to hall rectors to allow them to adapt the guidclincs to special nceds ·or circumstances of each individual dorm. Rectors also can make the decision a~ to whether thcir dorms will partiCipate in the experiment next semester, assuming the resolu­tion is passed by the CLC and Fr. John Van Wolvlcar, Vice President for Student Affairs. 
Murday strcssed that the resolu­tion is not just a revolt against the administration, hut only another resolution that the Senate has con­sidered and passed in the interest of bettering student life. He added that if the resolution passcs, passed, it will to students to satisfy the ex­pectations of the rcsolution. Gross violations, such as kegs appearing in every scction, would fore~; thc rcc­tors to conclude that the experi­ment faikd. 
The rcsolution will bc discussed by the CLC next weck and Murday fecls there is a good chance it will be approvcd. 
In other busint·ss, the Senatt· sent previously passt·d Resolution I 0 I to the CLC This rcsolution calls for a two day rcgistration period instead ofthe present one day. This will give students more timc to deal with problems that exist at the beginning 
of the  semester.  such  as  getting  
dorm  rooms  set  up,  switching  
dasses, t•tc.  
The  experiment  of  extending  

library hours during midterms will continue on a trial basis next semes­ter. Library officials said that if the experimcnt is successful they will extend hours during midterms per­manently. 

pushed a bit." 
The cadets, who had sought civilian status so they could be covered by a new Jaw on academic reforms, were told to go home. But many defied the order. and flocked to Solidarity union oftkes. 
The raid was conducted in full view ofthe residents ofthe northern Zoliborz district, suggesting that the authorites wantcd their new "get tough" policy to be apparent to all. 
As rumors spread through the city, several thousand people con­verged on the scene. When police took the cadets away. the crowd whistled and jeered derisively and shouted cpithets at police. 
Soidriy worker guards, wcaring red and white armbands and carry­ing bullhorns worked furiously to calm the crowd and hours after the raid assured the people that no cadets 'remained in the building or had been bcaten. Professor V.P. Kenney illustrates the world of subatomic par­
ticles with a visual demonstration. See Bill Kolb's story below.
See CADETS, page 6 

(Photo by Nick DeCandia) 
Subatomic particles 


Kenney uncovers inner space 

ByBILLKOLB tube, early researchers dcvelopcd a Neu•sStaff model of the atom that was composed of what was believed to Inviting his audience to "make a be the most basic subatomic par­reverse voyagc to thc world ofinner rides -electrons, protons and space," professor V. Paul Kcnney neutrons. But with the devclopment presented a lecture last night on of particlc accelerators, which Ken­"The World of 'Inner Space' -ney compared to incredibly power­Quarks, Lt-ptons, Photons, Gluons ful microscopes, researchers and All That" in the Ubrary observed that the behavior of par­Auditorium. tides did not conform to that modcl. 
Presented on a nontcchnical lcvd "Quantum thcory," said Kt·nney, directed toward all students, the "changed our thinking about mat­lecture wa~ part ofthe Distinguished ter." With the aid of accelerators, 
Scientist Lecture Series sponsored physicists discovercd "a whole slew by the Student Council of the Col­of new particles" that were 
kge ofScit·nce. "fascinating and unexplainable." But According to Dr. Kenney, thc field by 19S'i, the physidsts' initial ex­of particlc physics is in an exciting hilaration gave way to dismay. The 
stage of devclopmcnt. Kenny dicovery of so many quantum par­
outlincd the progress made by.,._........-............,..-.............-------"----........,-.........,.-............................---"\ 
physicists since the turn of the cen­tury in identifying and understand­ing the properties of elementary particles of matter. By combining thc principle of spectroscopy with the hydrogen
-.. 

Take the EASY BIDER•••United Umo to C1 from Chicago's O'Hare ••• every 2hours , every day! 
LEAVE  LEAVE  LEAVE  ARRIVE  ARRIVE  ARRIVE  
MIDWAY  LEAVE  BIG BEAR  LEAVE  MICHIANA  MICHIANA  ARRIVE  BIG BEAR  ARRIVE  MIDWAY  
MOTOR LODGE  MISHAWAKA  TOWN &  NOTRE  REGIONAL  ARRIVE  LEAVE  REGIONAL  NOTRE  TOWN &  MISHAWAKA  MOTOR LODGE  
ELKHART  OFFICE  COUNTRY  DAME  AIRPORT  O'HARE  O'HARE  AIRPORT  DAME  COUNTRY  OFFICE  ELKHART  
4:45a.m.  5:00a.m.  5:15a.m.  5:30a.m.  5:45a.m.  7:00a.m.  8:00a.m.  11:15 a.m.  11:30 a.m.  11:45 a.m.  12:00 noon  12:15 p.m.  
5:45a.m.  6:00a.m.  6:15a.m.  6:30a.m.  6:45a.m.  8:00a.m.  10:30 a.m.  1:45 p.m.  2:00p.m.  2:15p.m.  2:30p.m.  2:45p.m.  
7:45a.m.  8:00a.m.  8:15a.m.  8:30a.m.  8:45a.m.  10:00 a.m.  12:30 p.m.  3:45p.m.  4:00p.m.  4:15p.m.  4:30p.m.  4:45p.m.  
9:45a.m.  10:00 a.m.  10:15 a.m.  10:30 a.m.  10:45 a.m.  12:00 noon  2:30p.m.  5:45p.m.  6:00p.m.  6:15p.m.  6:30p.m.  6:45p.m.  
11:45 a.m.  12:00 noon  12:15 p.m.  12:30 p.m.  12:45 p.m.  2:00p.m.  4:30p.m.  7:45p.m.  8:00p.m.  8:15p.m.  8:30p.m.  8:45p.m.  
1:45 p.m.  2:0D p.m.  2:15p.m.  2:30p.m  2:45p.m.  4:00p.m.  6:30p.m.  9:45p.m.  10:00 p.m.  10:15 p.m.  10:30 p.m.  10:45 p.m.  
3:45p.m.  4:00p.m.  4:15p.m.  4:30p.m.  4:45p.m.  6:00p.m.  8:30p.m.  11:45 p.m.  12:00 MID  12:15 a.m.  12:30 a.m.  12:45 a.m.  
5:45p.m.  6:00p.m.  6:15p.m.  6:30p.m.  6:45p.m.  8:00p.m.  10:30 p.m.  1:45 a.m.  2:00a.m.  2:15a.m.  2:30a.m.  2:45a.m.  

We stop at every pick-up point on every trip I Free parking at our lot; deliver to your airline at O'Hare, pick-up at lower level Carson's Restaurant; fully licensed; passenger and baggage insured; ICC permit 
Allow one hour from our arrival time to flight time. Please make reservations 24 hours in advance. Ask about special charter rates. 
United Limo 
McKinley &Bittersweet Michiana Regional Mishawaka Airport Office 255-3068 234-6600 or call your Travel Agent 
-·················••ee••·····················~ 
: VAN LINES will run this weekend : 
• friday 6:00 pm -midnight • 
e e 
: saturday 4:00pm -midnight 
• depart from main circle on the hour. Take a study break, 
e
• go out to dinner, or Christmas shop . 
e 
e 
e Town & Country , University Park, 
•e and North Village Malls 
•
•

'••••e•e••••••••••••••••e•••••• 
tides complicated theory beyond its utility. 
A brcakthrough occurred in the late sixties and early seventics whcn researchers at Cal Tech helped sys­tematize the many subatomic par­ticles into a mathematical relationship by discovering a "fundamental particle," th,.. quark. While new particles havt• since bcen discovered, the discovery of the quark has enabled physicists to group all subatomic particles into ninc orderly classifications. The new breakthrough, said Kenney, places physidsts very close to developing a cohesive pcrspective of the forccs dominating thc universe and thc ul­timat~ makc-up of matter. 

HEALTH CARE OPPORTUNITIES 
CAREERS IN HEALTH CARE BEGIN IN THE AIR FORCE 
Positions are now available for upcoming graduates in: PHARMACY .(BACCALAUREATE DEGREES) SOCIAL WORK {MASTERS DEGREES) BUSINESS & PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION {MASTERS DEGREE) ENGINEERING (BACCALAUREATE DEGREE) 
Internships are available for: DIETICIANS {BACCALAUREATE DEGREE) CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST {PHD) MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIST {MASTERS DEGREE) 
FULL SCHOLASHIPS FOR MEDICAL SCHOOL ARE STILL A V All.ABLE. 
Benefits include: excellent salary, complete health care and knowledge offinal assignment prior to commitment For fur­ther information contact: 
Lt. Ted Pantaleo or MSgt Bob Reese at 317-269-6164 ... CALL COLLECT or write 47 S. Pennsylvania St, Indianapolis, IN 46204. 

The Observer Thursday, December 3, 1981 -page 4 
Pre -Columbian 

Curator explores ancient sport 

continuedfrom page I 
steel comes into our shores, a com­merce department agent will look at that invoice and see if the price is above or at the trigger-price. If it is below the trigger-price, that triggers

• • • Labor 
an investigation into the sale. 
Q:U.S. companies are currently 

pressing for legal action to curb Kirkland and other AFL-CIO what they consider dumping of
continuedfrom page 1 leaders had declined any substantive foreign steel at or below cost in the public further inconvenience and 
comment following the meeting. U.S. market. Could this lead to permit the thousands of other fur­
But in the formal statement, retaliation against American im­loughed air industry employees to Kirkland said AFLCIO leaders ports byEuropean countries? return to work." reiterated to Reagan their concern A:The trigger-price mechanism is Reagan, a one-time president of 
about the economy in general and designed to enforce current trade the Screen Actors Guild, told the 
rising unemployment in particular. laws and fair trade practices. If you AFL-C:IO leaders he is asking Vice 
"We acknowledged that labor's were to turn the tables and look at President George Bush and Labor 
approach to national social and the U.S. dumping steel into another Secretary Raymond Donovan to economic issues is at deep variance country, if they have trade laws meet regularly with a "broad cross­
with that of the administration," designed to protect their imports,section" oflabor leaders and to keep Kirkland said, "but urged the presi­
they would retaliate. But right now, him informed of their needs and dent to adopt a strong anti-recession it's almost impossible to dump into views, Speakes said. 
program ...." another country because they got as 



r----------------------------------------, 

BARCLAY'S FRESH APPROACH: 
r 
.., ­

'"\:,.,.a 
-t.t~ ~~.~·~ ......... ·.~·~· 
. f/• ,, 

A fresh approach to good food. 52885 US 31 North, South Bend, 272-5478 
©Continental Restaurant Systems, 1981. 
much steel as they can handle that come from this for the steel in­they're willing to sell below produc­dustry? tion costs. A:The American Iron and Steel In­
Q:When your company has a stitute suggests several amendments plan that they would like to carry to the Clean Air Act. We support out, for example, in constructing clean air but at the same time we new buildings or plants, bow im­want to have a plant that's viable in a portant is its effect on the environ­world economy. Roughly 95/ of the ment to your company? What particulates in the air are control­consideration doyougive to the en­lable and we have spent billions of vironment? dollars to control those. The AI&S's 
A:We have all the latest technol­stance is "Do we really want to ogy in pollution control. It's very spend the huge amounts of money important, not only from the sense necessary for a few extra percentage that Inland is a corporate citizen and points? Is the profit to our economy cares about its environment and there? Does it outweigh those wants to return it in the same condi­costs?" tion or better, but also because we hate regulatory agents to police us. The water that Inland takes in and uses is filtered and returned to the lake much cleaner than the initial 


Wiesel 

water is. So, when we make any kind ' ' ' of expansion, sure we're interested in the return on the expansion for us but part of that return is for ex­continuedfrom page 1 penditures for pollution control. 
is tested in despair." Wiesel rea1 
Q:Does the steel industry support 
firmed his position; "The implica 
President Reagan's plans to deem­
tion of Jewish suffering is universa 
phasize thepolicies ofthe Clean Air 
suffering." 
Act? 1fso, what advantages would 
Relating his his need to speak ou against modern atrocities, Wiese relayed that "Even when I have tc 
,~he Observer (USPS 598 920) 1S 

speak in protest, I go back to tht 
published Monday through Fnday and 
Bible." 
on home football Saturdays. except dur1ng exam and vacat1on penods. The Observer 1s published by the students 
Within the Bible lie rich traditions 

of Notre Dame and Samt Mary s Col· 
which for 4,000 years have spoken
lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased 
ofthe need to go on, even when men
for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntmg The Observer P 0. Box 0. 
"do not have the courage to con­
Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
tinue." Through the examples of 
The Observer IS a member of The 

such men as Jeremiah, modern men 
Associated Press All reproduction 
come to understand their world, a
nghts are reserved Second class postage pa1d at Notre 
world which must come to know 
Dame. Indiana 46556 
the agony ofsuch camps as Buchen­wald and Aushwitz. 
~~~=­
STUDENT UNION 
Presents: ''Do Black Patent Leather Shoes Really 

Reflect Up?" 
3rd Hit Year in Chicago Transportation Ticket _$~2 per person. 
Limited Tickets Available 'Bus departs 6:15 pm, Friday, Dec.4th. Returns to ND immediately 
after show. Arrive 1:15 am. 
By CINDY COLDIRON 
News Staff 
Douglass Bradley, Curator of Eth­nographic Art of the Notre Dame Snite Museum of Art, discussed the ancient ballgame where the losers were sacrificed in his lecture and slideshow "The Old Ballgame: A Pre­Columbian Religious Movement" in the Annenberg Auditorium last night. 
Bradley remarked that much 
dualisllJ is present in Pre-Columbian 
art. This Pre-Columbian ballgame 
flourished and extended its in­
fluence for a period of 2500 years, 
until the lOth century, throughout 
Mexico, the Carribean area, and per­
haps even in Southwest America. He 
stated that the view of the religious 
nature of the game by the people 
was "that the entire well being ofthe 

cosmos depended upon the outcome ofthe ballgame." 
This game, played by two oppos­ing teams on any open court, used a large rubber ball to score. Bradley added that the "open defensive areas were at each end of the court and the purpose ofdefensive play was to put the ball into the offensive endzone and the purpose of of­fensive play was to put the ball into the defensive endzone." No hand or head shots were allowed and the protective equipment the players wore included wide belts called "yokes," kneepads and sometimes even elbowpads. 
Bradley refuted a common mis­conception about the game when he stated that the ring attached to the wall of the court "had been portrayed as the place were the ball was put through, but in actuality it was only a marker." "The actual scoring was done in the endzones." 
Although it is not known for sure if the winning or losing team was sacrificed, it is more commonly believed that the losing one was killed. Bradley added that the "!Jest thinking now is that the games were played twice a year, once at the beginning of the dry season and once at the beginning of the wet season." 
Curator Bradley concluded that although he had tried not to dwell on the sacrificial parts of the game. these ancient people "had built skull platforms and racks from the decapitated heads." He reminded the audience what our sports would be like today if this practice had been continued. 
• • • Sever 
The Observer Thursday, December 3, 1981 page 5 




******************** 
DETROIT BUS SIGN UPS for Christmas Break Thursday, December 3 6:30-7:00 Pm 
Lafortune Ballroom 
round trip fare: 23.00 departur~: Friday, December 1~ 5:30Pm return: monday, January 11 5:30 Pm 

~--­
f Th1e Observer Thursday, December 3, 1981 -page 6 

r 
t 
Mickey Hayes, right and hisfriend Francis Geringer, both suffer­ingfrom progeria, make a point with a Knott's Berry Farm cowboy on a recent visit there. See story below. ( AP Photo) 

patients can be made by looking at the release of a number of lym­

Progeria victims 

phokines, or blood proteins. While the overall aim of Dr. Neta's research is better understanding of

Little old boys go to Disneyland 
the immune system to control or 
ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) -Shy, 8­year-old Fransk Geringer, a little old man who, like Pinocchio, longs to be a normal boy, met his fairy-tale idol at Disneyland on Wednesday after a trip halfway aroundthe world. 
It was a wish-upon-a-star dream come true for the wizened, bald child :from Orkney, South Africa, who suffers from a rare aging disease called progeria. 
While Fransie smied and giggled at Pinocchio's gestures -but said nothing -a newfound friend from 

-·································································· 
lBaaclatory MeetiaC for au· Juaion 

iahreshcl ia Law Schools. 
7:00 · 'lhur. Lib. Aucl. 
Asst. Deaa Waddick and Dean Mcleaa Will talk about new LSA! aad other information pertaining to Law Schools. 

&,ample& of aew LSA1f wll be handecl outl : 
···································································' 

Sunday, Dec. 13 7:30PM NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
TICKETS ON SALE NOW!!t 

$_10.50/9.50 Reserved 


Texas, a victim of the same disease, 
tweaked Mickey Mouse's ears and 
nose. 

Fransie once thouht he was alone 
in suffering from progeria, which 
ages its victims I 0 times faster than 
normal, stunts growth an often 
results in death by the teen years. 
The naughty wooden marionette, Pinocchio, has had special sig­nificance for Fransie since a Pinoc­. chio doll was put in his crib in infancy. The 19th century storybook character won a struggle to become 
Body's immunity 




ND scientists study cancer 
The death ofa cancer patient is of­beneficial to immune responses so 
ten as much a result of a potential that resistance to infections and 
cure as of the disease itself, because tumors can be better controlled. 
chemical therapy can often lower "When a cancer patient dies," she 
immunity to infection. Scientists at noted, "it's usually not ofthe cancer, 
the University of Notre Dame are but ofinfections that occur because 
among those nationwide attempting of therapeutic drugs that reduce the 
to attack the problem from within immune response." 
by bolstering the patient's immune To aid in understanding the system. immune system, Dr. Neta has spent Dr. Ruth Neta, postdoctoral two years working with the release research associate in the Depart­ofthese proteins in infected, geneti­ment of Microbiology, is centering cally inbred strains ofmice. That sys­her investigation on the roll ofsome tem serves as a model to investigate blood proteins called lymphokines, the genetic factors that make one in­including the noted interferon. dividual resistant, but another sus­A different phase of immunologi­ceptible to infection. Dr. Neta has cal research is being conducted by observed that those mice producing Dr. Seymour Schlager, associate less interferon are more susceptible professor of microbiology, who is to infection, and her work also sug­looking at the interactions ofcancer gests that an "inhibitor" to inter­
cells and immune responses feron is present in the blood ofmore through the study of white blood susceptible animals. cells and antibody molecules. In a clinical siuation, she said the 
With a S29,800 grant renewal reason some tumor patients do not from the American Lung Associa­respond well to treatment could be tion, Dr. Neta is attempting to because of a similar inhibitor, and determine which blood proteins are more complete diagnoses of 
a normal boy. cure tumors and infections, 
"It's not nice to be the only one," Schlager's work deals with a more Fransie, whose arthritic walk specific treatment of cancer cells resembles the jerky movements ofa and white blood cells to attack the marionette, once told his mother. disease without strong doses of Then, Sunday, Fransie met 9year­chemotherapy or radical surgery. old Mickey Hays of Hall ville, Texas, Schlager is continuing at Notre and together the little old boys went Dame the research he previously to Disneyland to meet their favorite conducted at the National Cancer 
characters. Institute in Washington, D.C. One 
Mickey headed straight for Mick­phase ofhis work centers on treating ey Mouse, the character he most cancer cells to prevent production admires because "That's my name." of a molecule which "protects" the 
"You're not a real mouse. You're a surface ofthe cell from attack by the 
dressed-up girl," the cocky little Texan told his new friend. "I knew that all the time." 


Provost announces
Fransie, a timid child, giggled throughout the private hour-long meeting as Pinocchio, a traditionally 


chair appointments 
silent character, communicated by immune system. Another phase deals with the treatment of white blood cells -particularly lym­phocytes and macrophages -to simulate their attack ofcancer cells. 

Schlager said his work indicates that cancer cells produce a fat molecule that protects the surface of the cell, making it resistant to damage by the immune system. With drug, hormone, or physical treatment of the cancer cell, Schlager said it may be possible to prevent production of that molecule, making the cells vul­nerable to the immune system. 
Schlager's work in this area has been successful in test tube experi­ments, he said, and is showing preliminary progress with laboratory guinea pigs with liver tumors. He has also gained test tube success in stimulating the two types 
of white blood cells to wage a more effective fight against the cancer cells. By attempting to understand the basic mechanism by which the immune system kills tumor cells, Schlager said that same mechanism can be used to stimulate the white cells. This method is especially ef­fective with the macrophages, 
Schlager said, because this powerful white cell simply attacks tumors as foreign cells, while other types of white cells are only effective against specific types oftumor cells. 
Schlager said this research is com­plimentary . to work recently publiicized at the Baylor College of Medicine in Houston which at­tempts to remove the protec;_tive mask that cancer cells produce. However, he pointed out, "While they are trying to remove that block­ing agent, we are trying to treat the 
cancer cell itself so that it does not produce that agent in the first place. 
graduate and graduate degrees from the University of Michigan. 
Walter ). Nicgorski, associate professor and chairman of the General Program of Liberal Studies, has been reappointed chairman, and Michael ). Loux, professor of philosophy, has been appointed chairman of his department, succeeding Prof. Cornelius Delaney. 
Nicgorski, who received his M.A. and doctorate in political science from the University ofChicago after undergraduate work at Georgetown University, joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1964 and was appointed chairman of the General Program in 1979. He received a Lilly Endow­ment Faculty Open Fellowship in 1978-79, and this summer he and his wife, Elaine, were named Danforth Associates. 
Loux did his undergraduate work at the College of St. Thomas and his graduate work at the University of Chicago. In 1974 he won the Sheedy Award for excellence in teaching in the college ofArts and Letters, and in 
1979 the Madden Award for distin­guished teaching offreshmen. 
I I 


Cadets
I 

continuedfrom page 3 
At one point, the crowd forced a bus taking the cadets away to turn around and yelled, "You are heroes, you have the whole country with you." 
The raid, the biggest show offorce since Solidarity was formed 16 months ago, appeared to represent a new firmness on the part of the au­thorities. The Communist Party has demanded an end to strikes, and called on Parliament to grant the government "extraordinary" powers. 
gestures. 
Pinocchio gave Fransie a Pinoc­chio watch and signed his autograph book with "Fransie, be a good boy like me. Love, Pinocchio." 
Fransie journeyed to the United States with his family after an As­sociated Press article In August told of his struggle against progeria and his dream of meeting Pinocchio. Hundreds of North Americans sent donations ranging from S1 to 11400 to Fransie's family or contributed to various funds established in his be­half. 
Texans, meanwhile, raised money to send Mickey to Disneyland at the same time. The boys have been al­most inseparable since they met. 
Asked how he felt about the visit, Mickey replied in a soft Southern drawl, "I want to go on some rides." 

Three department chairmen have been appointed by Prof. Timothy O'Meara, Provost. 
Walter R Johnson, a member of the Department of Physics faculty for 23 years, has been named acting chairman of that department, ef­fective immediately, and chairman, effective next September. The ap­pointment follows the sudden ill­ness of Walter C. Miller, who has been chairman since 1975. 
Johnson is an internationally known expert in the application of quantum electrodynamics, especial­ly as related to relativistic effects in atomic physics. He recently served on the program committee for the 8th International Conference on Atomic Physics and was a scientist in residence at Argonne National Laboratory. He received his under-
I For further information Write: Father Andre Leveille. CSC Box 541 Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 


I . 
Thursday, December 3, 1981 -page 7 
By 1be Obserl'er and The Associated Press 
Big boat sailorswith racing experience on medium w large size boats are nee<kd hy the Notre Dame Sailing Club. Call Phil Reynolds at 233·3411 for more details-The Obsen1er 
Men's Novice Crew will hold a meeting tonight at 7 
p.m. in the l.al'onune little: theatre. Anyone interested in rowing must attend. For more information call Mike Hawboldt at· 8444. 
The Obsen1er 
The SMC ski team will hold a mandatory meeting tonight at 6:30 p.m. for all women interested in racing this season. The meeting will be held in the LeMans lobby. -The Observer 
The NVA Office has announced that all interhall basket· ball players must have their insurance forms filed in the NVA Office ( C-2 ACC) by 5 p.m. the day oftheir first game. All players must also remember to bring their !D's to the first-round games. -The Ob· server 
The interhall hockey season opens tonight. 
Stanford will play Cavanaugh at I 0: 1 5, and Off-Campus will take on l'lanner immediately afterward. All participants are reminded to have their !D's when appearing at the ACC for their games. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC ski team t will hold a meeting Friday from 4 to 6 p.m. in the Flannt:r Commoner. All students going on the Winter Park trip to Colorado Jan. 2-10 must attend in order to co· ordinate travel plans. -The Observer 
FtrS. t year sailors are encouraged to sail in the Donahue Cup regatta which will be held on St. Joe's Lakt: Sunday Ike. 6. The ND/SMC Sailing Club hosts this annual competition to determine the best rookie sailor of the year. The winner will be honort:d with a cookout. All are welcome to attend the races. For more Information, call Brian ( 8105) or Phil ( 2 33·3411 ). -The Ob­
server 


Notre Dame 87, Slllnt Mary's CoUese 53 One-mder dhina (reqlllnd): Anna Furh:IJ!h ( ND) I 28.0~; MeaJ!h<r (SMC); OlauJ!hlln ( ND ). 200--yard medley re..y: ND ( l.ce Ann Brllllawn. Tcrl Sdllndlcr, Gina Gamboa. Jean MurtaJ!h) 1,~9. ~6; ND;SMC. 500--yard fn:Htylc: Jeanine Blau (NU) ~,21.32; Gaertner ( SMC); Pearl ( ND). 200--yard Individual medley re..y: Gall (;...,y (SMC) 2•22.22; Schindler (ND); Pearl ( ND). 100--yard fn:ctyle, Chris l.cnyo (SMC) •57.78; Brill­lawn (NO); MurtaJ!h (Nl)). 50-yard backatroke: Ellen Byrne (SMC) ,31.59; lallnu (Nil); Fallon (SMC) 50-yard bre-.-okc: Terl Schindler (ND) •H.68; Gamboa ( ND ); Karllng ( NU ). 100--yard bunerfty, lUthy LaUno (Nl>) 1•03.47; Dian ( ND ); Roesler ( N D). 50-yard fn:Htylc: Chrla Lcnyo (SMC) ,26 .•2; Mur­tagh ( ND ); McCalli"ey ( Nl>). 100--yard backatrokc: l.ce Ann Brl51awn (ND) Ul6.52; Byrne (SMC); l.aUno (ND). 100--yard Individual medley relay, Gall Cucy (SMC) L05.42; Gamboa (ND); Hanis(ND). 200--yard fn:HtyJe, Jeanine Dian ( ND) 2,02. 7~; Gaenncr (SMC ); Harrington ( N() ). 50-yard fn:Htyle: Gina Gamboa (ND) ,28.85; l.cnyo(SMC);G. Cucy(SMC). One-meter di'Vins (optlnal): S115a11 O'LauJ!hlln (ND) 122.35; furlleJ!h (ND); Mea~cr(SMC). 
IOO·yard brrastslrukc: Debbie KarUng ( ND) I' 17.84; lanJ!han• ( ND); Mlchlelunl (SMC). 200-yard fr<e01yle reilly, SM(; (Alma Fallon, Ann 
Gacnner, GaU <~.Ellen Byrne) I:~3.%. Rn·orc.ls: Nultt" l>amc.· 1·0~ Sf:. Matv'N ().J 
tf!BASKETBALL ~~1 
l.aat Nlflbt'o Rcouka Mar..,ut'nc 49, Ohio,.~ 
MinnctKUa 90, Dayton'"' Illinois St. 63, N. llllnob 60 S.llllnol• 73, Murray St. M Davidlon 7~. Bapc:i5t ~9 
Michigan St. 6~. Detroit 61 (OT) 

The St. Mary's basketball team scored a big win 
over Tri-State University last night, 88-34, at the Angela Athletic Facility. The Belles took an early lead and continued to put points on the board with a balanced scoring attack. Leading the Belles to their second victory in three games was freshman guard Elaine Suess, who scored a game-high 1 5 points. Teammates Teresa McGinnis and Anne Armstrong contributed 14 and 13 points respectively, while Mary Pat Sitlington chipped in with 11. The Belles play again this weekend in the Goshen Tourney. -The Observer 
A pep rally will be held this Friday night in anticipation of the Notre Dame-UCLA basketball game. The rally will be held in the ACC pit beginning at 7 p.m. Coach Digger Phelps, Irish captain Mike Mitchell, and a special guest will speak. -The Observer 
The final tally in The Observer-Landon Turner Fund drive was S2,387.65, which was presented, along with a check for over 56,500 from South Bend fund-raisers, to Indiana Basketball Coach Bobby Knight and former Indiana Governor Otis Bowen at Tuesday's Notre Dame-Indiana game. The generosity and compas­
sion of the Notre Dame family is truly remmarkable. The ObsenJer wishes to thank all ofyou on behalfofLa~~tion Turner -The Ob­server 
The Cincinnati Reds are in "pretty darn good" shape, President Dick Wagner says. But he's tired ofcomparisons to Cincinnati's powerhouse clubs of the mid-1970s. That was one of the points that Wagner said he wanted to get "off my chest" in a letter to fans printed in the team's RedsVue magazine. "Maybe I'm just overly sensitive, but I guess 1have to say that I'm growing a little tired of hearing how our baliclub isn't what it used to be," Wagner said. "Ofcourse it isn't. Time marches on and dictates changes. And while our ballclub has taken on a new, younger look over the last five years, do you know what team in the National League has compiled the best record?" The Reds finished with the best record in the major leagues last season, although'they did not make the playoffs because ofthe split-season format. The front office presented the club with a 
mock pennant before the final game ofthe season. -AP 
Classifieds  The Observer wtll accept class1fteds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m to 4 30 p.m However. classtf1eds to appear 1n the next tssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the busmess day pnor to tnsert1on All classtfteds must be prepatd. etther tn person or through the ma11  
FOR SALE. 75 watt stereo recetver wtth equalizer. tape deck. and pa1r of speakers. Call Cecil Rucker at 8223. L___N_O_TI_C_ES__~I ~~__FO__R_R_E_NT__~ . SEASON B-BALL TIX. GOOD SEATS ........................ (CHEAP). PKG A AND/OR B. 287·9342 . FOR NEXT SEMESTER HOUSE AND ATTENTION ALUMS & CHICAGO APARTMENTS 234·2626 BOUND STUDENTS: The Notre Dame Club of Chicago will sponsor their annual Next Sem. Housemate $80 p/m incl. all TICKETSChnstmas Mass and Brunch on Oec. 13, utiL 233-3552 1981 at ttam. Mass w111 be held at St. Mtchaers Pansh in Old Town. Brunch will tollow at 12:30 at the Ambassador West Need UCLA GA's Call John 1809 Hotel Please contact JoAnn at the N.D. WANTEDClub office at 312·263·6063 lor reserva­NEED HOME BASKETBALL TIX CALL tions. DENNIS8712 USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED.. FLORIDA nders needed for X-Mass UCLA TIX FOR SALE 3793 SAT.. SUN. 9·7 CASPERSON, 1303 cashwtse: the usual, call-7735 anyttme BUCHANAN RD., NILES leave message ok? wanted 2,4. or6 ga ltckets for UCLA garnt Will pay maga bucks call Tad 1807 USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought, Dnvtng to Detroit th1s weekend? I need a sold. searched ERASMUS BOOKS. ride to the Detro11 a1rport on Fnday and a I need TWO FOREIGNER TIX. Will pay Tues-Sunday.12-6. 1027E. Wayne(One return on Sunday It you can help call good$$ Call Joe at 1200. block south at Eddy· Jefferson tntersec­·1188 IIOn) FOR SALE 2 GA S UCLA ttx lower arena Need nders to OMAHA tor Christmas. best offer call 4375 EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO Call Carrie at 4654 TYPING CALL 287-5162. YES. I'm from Jersey and I need 1 or 2 Need nders from Atlanta to NO on Jan.tO UCLA ttckets. Call Deanna at 4308 for Watch tor The Soctety tor Creattve or 11 Call Carrie at 4654 $$$1 Anacrontsm nght aHer Chnstmas break I MINNESOTANS!!!!!! I need a nde home Have two ttckets on mam floor tor Danger· to St. Paul, MN tor Xmas.teavmgthe 19th. held show on Sunday;wtll sell tor best of­WINDSURF NOW AVAILABLE AT THE One catch -­I'm graduating. and need to fer. Call John at 1526. RARE BOOKS ROOM IN THE LIBRARY. take all my stuff home. It you will take me NOW ANYONE CAN DO IT IN STYLE! and my stuff only. I'll pay all expenses one pair of Rodney Dangerfteld WIND $20. PLEASE HELP!! X3445 tickets-15th row-best offer-call 1972 Rtde neede to MINNEAPOLIS for Chnstmas break. W1ll share usual. Bear 233-2912LOST/FOUND PERSONALS I need nde to and tram ATLANTA tor Chnstmas vacat1on. Can leave on LQST. A 58-C Texas Instrument Cal­December 15. Call Cathy at4t-4424 "SIMON" the touching story ofa culator about a week ago maybe 1n the Father and his mouse ... Cell Btology Class II found, please call I need nde tram ATLANTA TO NO alter 6737 or return to 143 Farley Hall Xmas break. Wtll share dnvtng. ex­THE ZAHM COFFEEHOUSE IS OPEN penses. stale JOkes. and chtldhood EVERY THURSDAY FOR YOUR EXIS­LOST LADIES' BROWN DEARSKIN photos. I mtght even smg my rendtlton of TENTIAL PLEASURE. OFFERING THE GLOVES WITH RABBIT FUR LINING-­Happy Tratls to You. Call Jtm at 3376. FINEST IN LIVE ENTERTAINMENT, OLD AND MENDED--NO QUESTIONS COFFEE, TEA, HOMEMADE DONUTS, WILL BE ASKED--288-9322 Need nde to Cleveland lor Xmas. Please FREE POPCORN AND PAT GALLAG­call John at 8450 HER. COME DOWN AND SEE IF OUR LOST. NO CLASS RING OUTSIDE PROFESSIONAL CONYER· SENIOR BAR FRIDAY NIGHT NAME Rtde needed to Pittsburgh/Wheeling area SATIONALISTS ARE PAID ENOUGH. INSIDE IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL PHIL for Chnstmas Can leave Tuesday night 9-12 EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT, PERKINS AT 8338 or Wednesday Call Scott at 6931 ZAHM BASEMENT. FOUND:set at keys 1n front of library Need nde to ATLANTA for Chnstmas Expenenced typtst .. reasonable Saturday mght Call Don at 1869 to tden­Can leave Wednesday ahernoon. Call Mrs. Bedford ttfy. Dave at6931 288-2107 Hours BAM to SPM ATTENTION IF YOU HAVE NOT AL· READY FOUND A NEWSPAPER FOR TYPING DONE ON CAMPUS BY THE UCLA GAME. PLEASE DO IM· PROFESSIONAL SECRETARY. LOWFOR SALEMEDIATELY. LET'S MAKE THIS YEAR RATES, QUICK SERVICE. CALL X· AS SUCCESSFUL AS LAST YEAR 1315. FOUND Grey cat wtth whtte paws and Have 3 basketball ucket packages lor I NEED A RIDE TO AND FROM PHILL Y chest found m Hayes-Healy No collar. sale Lower arena. Best offer Sell In­AT CHRISTMAS CAN LEAVE ON THE but well-groomed Please call 234-7483 diVIdually or together. Call Mtke or Ted at 19TH OR AFTER. WILL SHARE USUAL to tdenttfy 118t CALL MARYEVAAT 2915  ATTENTION· ATTENTION the Prestdent of the HE-MAN WOMAN HATERS CLUB delivers hts first sample of Prestdenttal sagactousness "there are very few females a! notre dame -just a lot of non-males" stay tuned for the t1me and place of our great Prestdenrs ftrst lecture ­How to start a woman hater's club so successful that 3 g1rls JOin up .welcome to our music mess ..er. test. Go. Chamber Pots! The personal ba«le as begun. May 11 con­ttnue unconstipated and unedtted!!! Two weeks of tmplying. tnvenling and reveal­tng obnoxtous.vulgar.incnminattng lies that can tarnsh even the worst of reputa­tions. LONG LIVE SMUT!!! I love it! SAY HAPPY HOLIDAYS AND SHOW HER THAT YOU CARE WITH A BOU­QUET OF FLOWERS DELIVERED EACH WEDNESDAY FOR 4 WEEKS. (WE CAN BREAK'" FOR XMAS BREAK OR WILL DELIVER IF YOUR LADY IS STAYING ON CAMPUS/ IN TOWN WEDNESDAYS FLOWERS 28912t 1 are KofC HAPPY HOURS as much tun as the UCLA CHEERLEADERS ? FIND OUT on FRIDAY at 4 at the K of C BUILD· lNG JOIN the KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS . NOTRE DAME"S ONLY FRATERNITY INDUCTION IS SUNDAY AT NOON ... CALL 7018 tor tntormatton Members of the spectes Sus Scrofa (famtly Suidae) are tratned to root for TRUFFLES Once you·ve found one. you·re hooked for hte. I need a nde back to N.D. from Purdue Sun Dec 6 Will pay usual Call MARK 8317 AL. ROSALYN. LYNDA. DEBBIE. GARY. KAREN. MICK: Doin· JUSt fine. Wish you were here. The ktd HEY LITTLE RED-HEADED GIRL Remember. all you have to do is whtstle, 1t s easy Just put your your two lips together and blow Georgta can be mtghty empty .. not to mention the land of Hoagy Charmtchael. Carol Lombard, and theB~rd Tnpper WORLD WAR Ill CONTINUES Dave D You CAN'T do lhtngs between the blankets that other men take for granted! Mtke 0. You may have thought you we.re in the dnvers seat, but I was tn con­trol In the rear! John M. You dtdn·t expose yourself completely(ptctures dan·t he). Do you wan! to try agatn? Chns N. Other women mtght kill tor the vtew I got. but I was NOT 1m1mpressed! Tom M, Sorry I got cold feet after you lied me up  NIGHTSOUNDS t05 FM t030 PMJACK BE LIBERAL RYAN football season·s over .let f1 be EVERYONE DO THE FUNKY WES­TERN CIVILIZA TIONIII LAURA MARIE--when wtll I see you aga1n? PAT, I HOPE YOULL EXCUSE THESE MERELY BI-DIMENSIONAL. UNISEN·PHILADELPHIA CHRISTMAS BUS SORY EXCUSES OF A BIRTHDAYNOW ACCEPTING RESERVATIONS. GREETING THEY ARE ALL MY SHAL·$80.00 ROUND-TRIP. LEAVE DEC 18 LOW MIND COULD CONJURE. 5:30PM. FOR MORE INFO. CALL DAVE 6740 OR CHUCK 8702 Pete. Bye bye, now I HOW WOULD YOU LIKE A HAIRCUT CONGRATULATIONS JIM AND SARAH YOU'LL REALLY LOVE? ONLY $5 (GUYS $3) CALL MICHOLE AT 795 t Sleepy sledgehammers smg songs somewhere en summer.hey dorene -get a real high school// Col· Marred mart1ans mark margenne w1thton is just no good compared to the big A mars bars.Ill Stlly sltmy Sinecures slide through stnner­tng sludge.IMPORT ANT! The I HATE INDIANA Maktng many men muddle moneylessclub Will hold tiS charter meeting 1n the through mud Alhterattvely yours.south dome of the ACC on Sat. Dec. 5. at 2:00PM The T ~red Poe I goodmght ATTENTION: PITTSBURGH The BOSTON CLUB will have an tmpor· CHRISTMAS BUS SIGN-UPS -­SUN­tant meeting tor any and all who w1s to DAY. DEC. 6 at 7:00 PM tn LaFortune take the BUS home tor XMAS. Thts 1s the Lt«le Theater Buses Will leave on only meettng, so you MUST a«end. MON­Thursday. Dec 17 at 1:00 PM and on DAY. 12/7, 7:00PM. LaFortune Lt«le Saturday. Dec. 19 at 11:00 AM from the Theater. Bnng cash or ceck for full CCE. All buses wtll return to NO on Mon­payment-$110 roundtnp. $60 one-way day Jan 11 departing from the Greyhound Termtnal Downtown at 1 :00 Helen F. IS the only thtng that could lure PM. Round tnp IS $45.00 and one way IS South-stder Bnan McMahon to Notre $29.00. NO REFUNDS. Any questtons? Dame Have fun Saturday mghtl •• Call BRIAN EICHENLAUB at 1581 before t2:00 AM Laura Mane. you are a REAL fox! JMP h1 cindy 1 · from 11m Calculus IS an 1ntegral part of ones datly function.·· · Manana ·scuse me. M1ss? Miss? Rumor has 1l that you re 20 today! Dtd you believe I was too Is rt true that Manana stud1es Calculus 1n far away? No cheetos. no w1ne, but Simp­the shower? Does she really mumble ly the 11me to hope for a sunset on thiS Theorems 1n her sleep? She's tust a Cal­your birthday!! XXXXX culus tunk•e Mar_y O"Bnen celebrated her 22nd GET HIGH· SMOKE MARIANA! birthday Thanksgtvng Day 1n grand style As you mtght tmagtne she IS s!tll acceptmg How do you get h!$Jh on Manana? That"s gths Mary adores mtnk but would love an easy. Just lear out a page tram a Calculus affair wtlh any available male over tour book, roll 1t up. hght 1t, and Inhale taste teet tall and ten years at age. that cooltntegral taste! Ahhhh! HAPPY BIRTHDAY! BOB BRADLEY MASTER CONTROL? MY hormones Hope 11 IS a good one! Your lavonte troop were 1n control when I mated you tw1cel no 69 SNOW CONTROL HAPPY BIRTHDAY PAT GALLAG­TODAY IS MARTHA TOAD'" HERIII KUTASHY S B-DAY WISH HER A HAP· PY B-DAY AT 3141. REMEMBER PAT GALLAGHER IS 21 YESTERDAY MARTHA, WE LOVE YOU!"' THE HEAD ANOtSONHtSWAYTOHISOWNCEN­TOAD&CO. TENNIAL. DAVID TERRANCE I HOPE THAT YOUR HAPPY BIRTHDAY JAME BIRTHDAY BRINGS YOU THE HAPPI· SABARTESIII NESS YOU DESERVE. YOU ARE GEORGEOUS-EST WHEN YOU SMILE. HAPPY BIRTHDAY FRANK CAPRA. LOVE. one of your women IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE II 0 What do female shepherds t1e the1r ONE NIGHT I WOKE UP AND SHOT PAT shoes wrth In the Yukon? GALLAGHER IN MY PAJAMAS. HOW A. Little Bow Peeps I HE GOT IN MY PAJAMAS I'LL NEVER a Slime offender from the hierarchy at the KNOW HMWHC  

The Observer-Sports Thursday, December 3, 1981 -page 8 

==============================~---------------1lereswill~~~~~nhl~andn• 
Skiers enjoy the winter's first snowfall at Maine's Sugarloaf Mountain over the weekend. Notre Dame's ski team bas enjoyed a great amountofsuccess, despitefactors thatconstantly work against them. See Louie Somogyi's column on page 9. (APPhoto) 




Letter
• • • Swimming 

-------------------------------"1 DearSirs: 
continuedfrom pafSe 9 
Schindler won the 50-yard breaststroke and Gamboa the 50· yard butterfly. 
I. 
Senior All-American Kathy Latino won her ~.peciality, the 100-yard butterfly, for the Irish. Debbie Kar­ling offically won the 100-yard breaststroke because Schindler, the actual winner, swam exihibition. Notre Dame divers Anna Furleigh and Susan O'Laughlin also were win­ners. Furleigh, a fre~;hman, won the one-meter required dives and O'Laughlin, a senior, the optional diving. 



"Blatt, Brislawn, Latino, Schindler and Gambo swam well for us and I was pleasantly pleased with the first­place in the one-meter diying by a freshman," said Stark. "And our first­places were backed up by our seconds and thirds." 
Senior co-captain Rita Harrington will help out in the freestyle and but­terfly events. Junior freestylers Nancy jones and Sheila. Roesler and freshman Colleen Carey will add depth in the freestyle events. Har­rington and Roesler will contribute in the butterfly and freshman]<> Ann Pearl should help out right away in the individual medley relay. 

· 
799

STROHS 
Bourbon GENERIC 
549 1.7:i~ter 1.1.99
Miller 
699 

Lite 
After listening to another N.D. IO!iS to PSU, I have done some serious thinking about the current predica­ment the football team is in. 
Gerry Faust is an excellent repre­sentative of UNO and I know he will eventually gain a National Cham­pionship for the Irish. I am glad that Dan Devine is looking elsew!Jere for employment. 
However, the man responsible for choosing the last two coaches for ND has in the case of Dan Devine picked the wrong person ( I don't care how many games he won ­that's not the point) and it n the case ofJ.F. picked him without giving him any preparation. 
We now have an excellent repre­sentative of the school as a coach and I know he will win, but why wasn't he made an assistant coach under Dan Devine ( with University pressure ofcourse) sothat he could learn about college football? Even Vince Lombardi was an assistant coach for many years. 
Would a soldier be put on the front lines without basic training ? It was poor planning and unfair to ask ].F. to combat Trojans, Boiler­makers, Wolverines, and Nittany lions without proper train'ing. 
In the future the decision-making process on football coaches should be expanded to include others with more foresight. 
GO IRISH!! 
Jim Beam 

Conboy leads Irish with hard work 
By MARK HANNUKSELA 
Sports Writer 
This is not a story ofstatistics. 
It's not about some 6-1 behemoth who collects rebounds like a little kid collects trading cards. Nor is it about a scorer who piles up more points than an arcade-junkie playing pinball. 
Perhaps that's the reason for her 
question "Why me?" when asked for 
an interview. Her tone reflects 
genuine bewilderment; her smile 
exposes the inner pleasure at the 
rare chance for publicity. 
Missy Conboy deserves publicity for a variety of reasons, none of which is any good: She is the captain of Mary DiStanislao's second Notre Dame basketball team; she is the on­ly senior on a team playing for three years from now, when all of its ath­
tiona! title hopes will be more than 
that; she is the source of a veritable 
plethora of quotable quotes -any­
thing she says can be, and often is, 
used against her. 
She certainly is the prettiest inter­
view this side of Derek; her hair, a 
shoulder-length sea of black, her 
eyes, brown, captivating. That's not 
a very good reason either, though. 
There is a good reason. It's not 
easily explainable. But it's there. In 
the following scenario ... 
The scrimmage starts with the veterans and rookies matched against each other. Conboy, Mat­vey, Mullins, Hensley and Crowe vs. Kaiser, Bates, Schueth, Dougherty and Neville. The early part of the five-minute scrimmage isclose. But then the vets start a run ofpoints. Conboy dribbles along the baseline, draws two defenders, then 
passes off to an open jan Crowe, who pops in a five-footer. When the rookies come back down the floor, Conboy steals a pass, and finds Debbie Hensley alone in the front court. Hensley converts the pass in­to a layup. Later, Conboy saves an errant pass from going out of bounds, gets the ball back when she returns to the floor, and cans a 12· foot jumper. The next time down the floor, she works her way open underneath, takes a passfrom Mat­vey, and lays it in. When the buzzer sounds, ending both the scrimmage and the practice session, the vets 
have a 14-point victory. 
"Missy's main contribution is ex­perience," says DiStanislao after­ward. "She's intelligent enough and competitive enough that she can play with anybody at any time. The 
And Enjoy 
Lower Priees! 
NIKOFF VODKA 
Big 1.75 Liter 


Early Times
Y2 KEGS 

1.75 LITER I.0 99 
1199
Bucl or Busch 3399 Michelob 

3799 1621 South Bend Ave. call us for all your party needs! 233-4603 Roseland 272-2522 
team needs her leadership." 
Conboy's style of play is scrappy. She's the diver when the ball is loose. She's the hustler when her team has just committed a turnover, and the defense must recover quick­ly or surrender an easy two points. She's the one who never forgets, al­though she sometimes fails, to box out. "When you look raw talent in the face, you have to have that kind ofattitude," she says. 
Certainly, that kind of attitude is helpful when your opponents arc among those women actually being recruited to play basketball at major colleges and universities. It's also helpful when the teammates you go up against in practice are members of the same group. 
Some days it works. Some days it doesn't. 
"Some days, yeah," she says in 
answer to the question 'Do you ever 
feel like you're in over your head?' 
"Otherdays seem to go pretty well. I 
just wonder which days are the 
flukes." 
Although there are days when the numbers are pleasantly large -a 20­point performance against St. Joseph's her sophomore season, an 11-rebound effort against Chicago the same year -there are no flukes 
in Missy Conboy's career. When one tries as hard as she does, the result­ing performance can never be called a fluke. Both her play and her at­titude are steady. It was because of that attitude that she was voted the first-ever recipient of the Bob Scott Award, given to the player who dis· plays the best attitude in a non· starting role. 
Conboy's career goals also have been steady. She has wanted all along to follow in her father's footsteps, and become a lawyer. And as a fifth-grader, attired in Notre Dame T-shirt and shorts, she faithful­ly practiced her shooting in her family's driveway, and one day in­formed her father, who wondered aloud why she practiced so dilligent­ly, that she was going to go to Notre Dame and play basketball. At the time, the University was all male. 
About the only thing that hasn't been a constant in her life is her address. Born in Buffalo, N.Y., she has called 15 cities home in her 21 years. She attended high school in Kansas for a while, but graduated from Heidelberg American High School in West Germany. She was named Heidleberg's female athlete of the year in that 1977-78 season. 
Conboy's newest home is Tus­caloosa, Ala., where her parents moved from Columbia, Mo., in Sep­tember. 
With the start of her final season 
only two days away, Conboy is 
preparing for another season as the 
Irish Supersub, a title she earned 
while playing under Sharon Petro. 
Most likely, she will come off the 
bench this season as she has for the 
past three years, but that doesn't 
bother her. 
"It's still fun for me," she says in 
her natural state of cheerful. "The 
only time it isn't is when you play a 
game you're not ready for against a 
team like South Carolina. You never 
want to go out and get embarrassed 
like that. I mean you have to taste 
defeat to appreciate success, but one 
defeat like that ( 72-point margin) is 
enough." 
This Irish basketball team 
shouldn't have to worry about too 
many more 72-point losses if Missy 
Conboy provides it with the leader­
ship DiStanislao expected when she 
asked Conboy to be her captain. It 
might even surprise a few people, 
which would be just fine with Con­
boy, who then might have some 
standard by which to measure her 
effectiveness. 
Because she doesn't use a stat 
sheet. 

The Observer-Sports Thursday, December 3, 1981 page9 






Irish win big in first varsity meet ever 
and Ellen Byrne for their efforts yes­
By DAVE IRWIN 
terday. Casey, only a freshman and
Sports Writer 
the brother ofNotre Dame swimmer Dan Casey, captured both the I00Notre Dame's women's swin. · and 200-yard individual medleyming team began a new age yester­relay events while Lenyo was busyday in the Rockne Memorial Pool as winning both the 50 and I00-yardthey opened their first varsity season freestyle events. Bryne, meanwhile,by smashing Saint Mary's College, claimed first in the 50-yard back·87·53. 
stroke.
"It's good to get this one under St. Mary's got the seven points for our belts," said Irish head coach winning the 200-yard freestyleDennis Stark. 
relay, the last event, as Stark swamBut Stark knows things will be his relays exhibition. Alma Fallon,rougher this year than last when the Ann Gaertner, Casey and ByrneIrish were 5·3 as a club team. The combined for first for the Belles.
Irish will travel to Western Michigan Notre Dame, however, counteredTuesday. 
with 10 first plaeces led by jeanine"Western Michigan is a higher Blatt. Blatt, a two-time Division Illdivision team than us," Stark said. 
All-American, won both long­"The competion will be keener." 
distance freestyle events to lead theStark, however, feels the Irish will winners in the individual events.
be respectable in their first varsity Junior All-American Lee Ann Bris· 
season. 
lawn, junior Teri Schindler and Gina"Our women's club has been suc­Gamboa also were double winners.
cessful in the past, and I think we Brislawn, Schindler, Gamboa andwill continue that success as a var· junior co-captain Jean Murtaghsity squad, even though the com­teamed to claim first-place in thepetition will be tougher," Stark said. 
200-yard medley relay. Brislawn"The women are hard workers and also streaked to first-place in hertrue competitors who want to win."· 
speciality, the I00-yard backstroke.
Although St. Mary's took its lumps yesterday, head coach Mark 
See SWIMMING, page 8 
Mamula, who begins his first full season after taking the reins over from Steve Smith with a little over a 


Racing is skiers'sole aim 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's ski-racing clubs 
will compete in seven weekend meets beginning the 
first weekend of next semester. 

Few Irish teams -club or varsity -can boast of as 
consistent a \\-inning program as the Notre Dame men's 
ski team, which was formed in 1975. While competing 
in the I 5-team "Midwest Collegiate Ski Association," 
the team has twice won the conference (in 1977 and 
1978), while finishing second in 1980 and third in 
1981. 

What makes those finishes even more impressive is 
the fact that the team trains only the day before a meet 
at the race site. (Contrary to rumor, the new mound 
displaying the Notre Dame emblem at the campus 
entrance is not a suft1cient training ground.) 

"We do have to rely on the natural racing talents of 
our people," says club president and captain Barry 
Tharp, "but we always manage to get some very good 
people out on our team." 

This year is no exception, as returnees include senior 
assistant-captain Steve Hilbert, juniors Scan Chandler, 
Brack Hattler and Craig Peters, and sophomores Mike 
Maas (who is the top seed in racing for the squad) and 
Kim Hewson. 

Captain for the women's squad at Notre Dame is 
junior Sue Hull, while sen_ior Nancy Sheft captains the 
Saint Mary's squad. 

Saint Mary's is expected to be competitive in regional and national.post-season competition. The team will be young but quite talented with the Meyer sisters, sopho· more Terri and freshman ~~:.:;,.,.,a, (who have both com· pcted in national wurnaments) leading the way. Senior Sharon Smiggen and sophomore Colleen Dwyer are top-notch experienced skiiers returning from last year's squad. 
Experienced skiiers interested in competing for the club which has about 45 active participants, should check into the time-trial races to be held the first week ofnext semester. The races will determine skill levels of interested skiiers. Further information will be availale at the start ofthe semester. 
"We basically only offer racing," says Tharp. "It is not a program where just everyone can come out to ski only for the fun ofit. 
"But the competition and weekend getaways that we have make us a pretty easy-going -and kind ofcrazy ­group. So we have our share o!fun being with the club." 

MEN'S VOLLEYBALL -The men's voJicybaJI club also has attained success in just a short span. Entering its fourth year of club status, the team is a member of the 30-team "Midwest Intercollegiate Volleyball Associa· tion", which is split into four divisions. The team finished tied for first last season in their division and fifth overall among the 30 teams. In 1979 the team finished third overall while placing second the follow­ing year. 
The season will open this year on Jan. 30 at the ACC Fieldhouse in one of the six or seven tournaments in which the team is expected to compete this year. 
Says club-president Barry Smith of the bi-weekly practices to be held next semester: "Anyone who wants to practice with us can. Most people have not played before so we will always devote a I<it ofour time to the basics in the sport. Then we will pick a roster each week for the people th'lt will compete for us in the ali-day tournaments to be played over the weekend." 
Currently, there arc 18 members who have practiced for the club in the last nine weeks, but Smith forsces an expansion. "A lot ofcolleges have gone varsity over the years, and the sport has been especially growing in the Midwest. It truly is a great team sport in that it require~ all six persons who are in the action to play well. You 
just cannot lean on one person to carry a large load." 
Among the top players returning include graduate 
student John Klebba, seniors Scott Erbs and Kevin Hin· 
dcrs, and juniors Clark Gibson and Smith. 
SAILING -The sailing club concluded their fall season ofcompetition with a 16th-place finish out of 18 teams in the renowned "Timmee Angsten Memorial Regatta" at Chicago over Thanksgiving break. Par· ticipating for Notre Dame in the A-division were Phil Reynolds as skipper and Carol Silva as crew. In the B· division, Angelo Capozzi and Tom Fink alternated as 
skippers while Mimi Tortorelli andJerry Daus switched off as the crew. All first-year Notre Dame sailors will participate in a race Sunday at I 0 a.m. at St. Joseph's Lake. 
Kareem passes Oscar in scoring· 

. LOS ANGELEA (AP) -Kareem Abdul-Jabbar has gone from the fourth-leading scorer in National Basketball Association history to No.2 in a hurry. But if he's to reach the top, it's going to take quite a while longer. 
"I'm very fortunate to have had the kind of career I've had, with so many highlights," Abduljabbar said after passing Oscar Robertson on the all-time NBA scoring list Tuesday night. "This ·~ another. It's a relief now that it's over." 
The Los Angeles Lakers' center en-.. tcred Tuesday night's game against the Utah Jazz needing seven points . to move into the No.2 spot. He got his sixth and seventh points on a short left-handed hook shot with 
3:54 remaining in the first quarter. 
The game then was stopped and the crowd of 11,284 at the Forum gave him a 45-sccond standing ova-
week left in the season last year, was 
still optimistic. 

ANYTHING GROWS 
"I was pleased," said Mamula, the 

FLORIST -campus~elivery
former Indiana state champion and UCLA All-American. "Wc're still kind 
272-8820
HOUSE PLANTS
of building. A lot of the girls haven't 
N. IROt~WOOD
had the experience ofcompetition." 


GIFTS. TELEFLORIST at
One swimmer who docs't need thl· experience is sophomore Chris 
TOLL ROAD ,


WIRE FLOWERS
Lcnyo. Last year, Lcnyo was tough 
DIRECTLY 
enough to qualify for the Division III 

get your hall formal EAST of CAMPUS
nationals in the 50 and I00-yard but· tcrfly events. She, however, did not 

corsages and boutonnieres 114mi. N. of Douglas 
attend the meet. "We're not real deep," Mamula 
,• ..

tree delivery to stepan ·Center
said, who is a graduate student in microbiology at Notre Dame. "But we are kind of saved because all the 

r--.-"P'REsENrfiiis-couPoN:.----~ 
girls can swim four events." The lack of proper training 

1 2s% diScount on aU-house· plants ··1·
facilities at St. Mary's also will be a · hlnderence, but Mamula refuses to 

1 ., .{.'".''lr\' NO• SMC l 
use that as alibi. "To some extent it is, but its no excuse," Maumala said. 

I I 
I · I
"It is a little inconvenient, especially 
coming into a bigger pool." 

·------------~-------------
Mamula cited Lenyo, Gail Casey, 

tion. cerned with making the Lakers No.I, 
The 13-year NBA veteran had 14 not me No.1." points in· the game, won by the At his present rate, Abdul-Jabbar Lakers 117-86, giving him a total of would need about 2 years to pass 
2?,718 poin_ts. Robertson finished Chamberlain, if he chooses to play h1s outstandmg career with 26,71 0 that long. points in 14 seasons. Robertson was on hand to watch Earlier this season, Abduljabbar Abduljabbar's achievement. 
pa~sed John Havlicek to move into th1rd place. 
Wilt Chamberlain is the NBA's all· ti~e leading scorer 3 I, 4 19 points. Will Abdul-jabbar, who is 34, play long enough to pass Chamberlain? 
"I'm not going to stick around just to try to top Wilt's record," said the former UCLA star. ''I'm more con­

"I think it's great. I'm very happy for Karecm. He's a good friend of mine," said Robertson, who came from Cincinnati to watch the game. "He's proven his durability all these cars. That was a knock on him when he first came into the league with the (Milwaukee) Bucks." 
lS<ro Discount  
~  toail  
N.D.· S.M.C.  
FOX'S  JEWELERS SINCE 1917 •  Students  

DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS 
Un~y~.r~ity P~k ~II· an~ 
Coticbrd & Pterre Moran 

Malls -Elkhart
•j..._________ 
""· The Observer Thursday, December 3, 1981 -page 10 

----------------~------~------------------------. 
The Observer 






T0 da~·-===============T=h=u::;r=s=d=ay='=D=e=c~e=m=b=e=r=3=,=1=9=8=1==p=a=g=e=l=.l
Molarity 








The Daily Crossword 


ACROSS 31 Lack of 1 Ye-Tea will power Shoppe 32 Pharaoh, 5 Music for short 
acronym 33 Seep 10 Identical 37 Bird 14 Milieu 40 Termites 
for21A 41 Ait: Fr. 15 Great 42 Staggered amount 43 Blackbird 16 "When I 44 Sign of was-" Infection 17 Bird 45 Inquiring 


~+--11--+-~-l 20 Gounod opus 49 Inca land 21 The lion 50 Slow, in 22 Loy music --t---11--+-+-~ 23 Rug or code 51 Swimsuit 
• 25 Menus part 26 Tint again 52 Desist's 30 Peerce the partner 
singer 57 Bird 
© 1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
~~-IJ I I l~:liiiQC,_..?""'tlliW' mI !I II I I I I I nnrr amntra~ 
-------~ 
Tonight's the night 

I 
FOR A GRAPE TlffiE 
a.t Senior 8a.r Wine Specla.l -9:30-2:00 
a.ll evening 

'""-........pus_
Michael Molinelli 

•9:30 -I I :30 a.m. -Law School Interviews, Albany Law School, Placement Office in Ad­ministration Building, 
•11:30 
p.m. -Tornado Warning Test, Test of tornado warning siren, every first and third thursday 

•1 
:30 -3:30 p.m. -Meeting, Important for juniors Interested in law, Asst. Dean Waddick, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by N.D. Pre-Law Society 

•4 
p.m. -Seminar, "Solution Structure and Fe 2 -Fe 3 Electron· Exchange" Dr. B. Tembe, Notre Dame, Confrence Room, Radiation Lab, Sponsored by Radiation Department 

•4: 
IS p.m. -Meet Your Major Meeting, English and General Program majors, Paul Reynolds, IOS O'Shaugnessy, All an: welcome


Garry Trudeau 
•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, " 'Something Like Prop­hetic Strain' Apocalyptic Configurations in Milton' ", C.A. Patrides, University ofMichigan, Hayes Hea­ly Board Room, Sponsored by English Department 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Theatrical Cross­Influences: Tht· Commedia dcli'Arte and Spain's Golden Age Theatre", Professor Nancy D'Antuono, Notre Dame, Memorial Library Lounge, Sponsored by Department ofModern and Classical Languages 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Margulis' Rigidity", B. Weisfeiler, Session Three, 226 Computer Center Math Building, Sponsored by Kenna Lecture Series 

•6:30 
p.m. -Meeting, AIESEC, LaFortune Little Theatre 

•6:30 
p.m. -Madrigal Dinner, Regina North Lounge, Sponsored by Department of Music, Tick­ets by advance registration 

•7, 
10 p.m. -Film, "All The President's Men", Engineering ~uditorium, S I admission 



•7 p.m. -Workshop, "Survivng Exam Week", For more information, call the Conseling Center ( I7I H) or sign up at 400 Administration Building, 
•7:30 
p.m. -Basketball, ND Women vs. St. Joseph, ACC 

•7:30 
p.m.-Film, "The Bitter Tears of Petra Von Kant", Annenberg Auditorium, S I admission 


Television 
7:00p.m. 
60 Ripening 25 Food agent provider 61 Plano 26 Indian 
7:30p.m. 
adjuster music mode 62 Hayworth 27 Black 
or Moreno 28 Sect 63 Lampreys 29 Auto 64 Cubic meter pioneer 
8:00p.m. 
65 Single 30 Protrude 32 Mao·-· DOWN tung 1 Scandina· 33 Author vian king Wister 
8:30p.m.
2 Prayer 34 Heraldic wheel user bearing 
9:00p.m.
3 "Mon-!" 35 Letters 4 Goeswrong 36 Remnants 5 Circle part 38 High priest 6 Waterproof· 39 Infer 
ing for 43 Presently 
9:30p.m.
floors 44 Schoolboy's 7 Crete text 
!O:OOp.m.
seaport 45 Kelp and 8 Both: comb. stonewort form 46 Suiting 9 Tire material pressure 47 Genuflect 
10:30 
ll:OOp.m.
letters 48 Brain 
10 Kind of passages 
butterfly 49 Wont 11 Watchful 51 Set-to 12 Seine 53 Light color 
11:30p.m. 
feeder 54 Related 13 Ferber, 55 Bristle et al. 56 Epochal 
!2:00a.m. 
18 Type type 58 Measure· 19 Govt. agent ments: abbr. 
12:30a.m.
24 Reverbera· 59 Before side tlng and fix 
Tonight 

16 MASH 22 CBS News 28 joker's Wild 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 46 Miracle Revival Hour 16 Allin The Family 
22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 46 W. V. Grant 16 The Wallons 22 Magnum P.l. 28 Mork and Mindy 34 Doc Sevc:rinson: A Soundstage Special 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 28 Best of the West 46 Pattern For Uving 16 Dill'rent Strokes 22 Knots Landing 28 NFL Football: Cleveland at Houston 34 Requiem For A Heavyweight 46 Today with Lester Sumrall 16 Gimmc: A Break 34 The Woodwright's Shop 16 Hill Street Blues 22 jessica Novak 34 Masterpiece Theater 46 jack Van lmpe 46 Faith For Today 16 NewsCc:ntc:r 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 34 The Dick Cavett Show 46 Praise The Lord 
16 Tonight Show 22 Quincy/The Saint 34 Captioned ABC News 28 Newswatch 28 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 16 Tomorrow Coast To Coast 28 ABC News Nightlinc: 46 Sharing 
: It's a. specla.l weekend a.t flit:? ·~ctzz : : tonight: You're on sta.ge open sta.ge 9 -? : e Tomottow: Na.zz fa.vorltes Dooher,Ca.stello a.nd e 
e Hlldner 10-11:30 : the ta.lented ma.rk Ulllma.n 11:30 -? : e Sa.turda.y: Hollda.y Cheer begins a.t the a.nnua.l e : Chrlstma.s Na.zz : 
• •e 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••,~ 

Thursday, December 3, 1981 -page 12 
In basketball 
UCLA faces probation 
By SKIP DESJARDIN tial, both at UCLA and with the ball, and therefore cannot prohibit Associate Sports Editor NCAA until such time as it is made the Bruins from appearing on public. I can't say anything about the regional or national TV. However, 
UCLA officials confirmed yester­contents of the findings or the mat­one television executive, who asked day that an NCAA investigation into ters that were under investigation." to remain anonymous, said that net· the workings of the school's basket­However, UCLA Atletic Director works often take probation into ac· ball program has been completed, Bob Fischer has said in the past that count when making up thdr and that penalties are in the works. the investigation was a review of schedule. 
"We received a letter Monday "what the PAC-10 did, and it covers "If the situation with San Fran­containing the findings of an NCAA our entire program. It's not strictly cisco is any indication, NBC and CBS investigation into our basketball basketball or football -it's a num­may shy away from televising UCLA program," Assistant Sports Informa­ber ofthings." games," he said. "It just doesn't look tion Director Mark Dillon told The The Observer's sources report that good to have schools that cheat on Obsemer yesterday. "We now have a the sanctions proposed are for bas­TV. This year's schedule probably period of l 5 days in which to digest ketball alone, and that the investiga­won't change, because so many ar­the information. We also must now tion involved matters dating as far rangements havt· · already been decide whether we want to appeal back as 1974. made, but it may be a factor in the decision, accept it as it stands, or "If the rumors that have been scheduling down the road." appeal a part ofit. circulating about UCLA's practices 
San Francisco recently completed"Beyond that, the athletic depart­are documented and proven, then a probationary period of its own,ment has no further comment." they deserve everything they get." 
which kept the team out of the
Sources close to the program, said Notre Dame Coach Digger NCAA tournament, but not offhowever, told The Observer that the Phelps last night. "It's about time the television.
punishment will be in the form of a NCAA went after a giant within the probationary period of one to two framework of its enforcement Notre Dame oficials say they have years, during which time UCLA policies -even if it's something as not been officially notified of the would be banned from the NCAA big as UCLA basketball." NCAA's negotiation, nor of any tournament. UCLA will play Notre Dame this penaltie~, and have not evaluated 
The school could go on probation Saturday in a game to be nationally the future of the Notre Dame-UCLA as soon as next week, the sources televised by NBC. basketball series. An evaluation is went on to say, pending UCLA's The NCAA does not control likely to take place, however, when decision on a possible appeal. television rights for college basket-the sanctions are announced. 
Reportedly, the action stems from findings in a year-long investigation into recruiting practices over the past several years. Alledgedly, 
Another Irish season 
several of the school's basketball players were given, loaned or aided 
opens with St. Joe 's
in purchasing automobiles as an in­centive for going to UCLA. The 
By DAVE DZIEDZIC helm, she sees this year as a new
charges center around reports that 
Sports Writer beginning for the women's basket­
Bruins Rod Foster, Michael Holton, 
ball program at Notre Dame. "We
Darren Daye and Cliff Pruitt all had
Ali-Atnerican guardsjohn Paxson and RodFoster willface each "We've been practicing for six had a very successful recruiting
cars as freshmen. 

other again Saturday, as the Irish renew their rivalry with UCLA. A weeks and have had several intra­year," she says. "We needed to get
In reference to developments this
dark cloud hangs over the entire UCLA program, however, as the squad scrimmages," says Notre good athletes, and we feel that we
week, the school's Vice Chancellor
school is-reportedly about to be put on probation by the NCAA for Dame women's basketball Coach landed five very good ones.
for Institutional relations, Chistian
recruiting irregularities. (Photo byjohn Macor) Mary DiStanislao, "and we're ready "These people are the nucleus of
Smith, said "the matter is confiden­
for a reid challenge." Notre Dame's future," she explains. 
A challenge is just what DiStanis­"They have experience against the lao will get as the Irish host St. kind ofplayers that will be our com­joseph's (Rensellaer) at 7:30 tonight petition for the coming years. at the ACC. The Pumas defeated the They're all &howing that they're
Only time will tell 
Irish 84-64 last year in a game that garners and will be important mem­DiStanislao claims "we should have bers ofthe team." BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -It looked more like the 
won." Matvey, Notre Dame's all-time 
M.A.S.H. 4077th than a basketballlockerroom. St. Joe's returns four letter­leading scorer and number-two Bill Varner was slouched in one corner with his toes winners from their 1890-81 squad tebounder, averaged 14.8 points shoved in a bag ofice ("It's sore," he admitted.). which finished 2 3-7 and advanced to and 7.6 rebounds per contest last Tim Andree was sprawled across a table with his the finals ofthe state tournament for season. "Shari has really come along ankle heavily wrapped with an ace bandage, holding a the third straight year. The Pumas' well this year," says DiStanislao. large ice bag in place (''I'm just physically tired," he strengths include quickness and "She's beginning to shake loose the admitted. "Just four days ofpractice since the cast came outside shooting skills that make inconsistency that's plagued her for off ... Ahh!" ). ume.'' them wha~iStanislao calls "a hus­two years. She's showing team 
Even John Paxson had ice on his left foot. ("Just a Phelps is the firmest believer in the addage "time tling and scrappy team." defense -which is just what we little bump," he shrugged. "Nothing much.") heals all wounds." "It's going to take some time for this "We really want to win this one," need." 
And if there still was anything left in the ice chest, team to grow up," he said after the loss Tuesday. "They DiStanislao says. "We had a flat per­Apreseason stress fracture has in­Digger Phelps might have put together an ice pack for need to get used to playing together. They have a lot to formance against them last year, and definitely sidelined incumbant himself; one to help relieve the headache his young and learn, but they're getting there." it was a very frustrating loss." guard Jenny Klauke, last season's inexperienced team has given him. "I don't have all the confidence yet that I need," ack­second leading scorer and reboun­
It indeed is frustrating to watch a player throw the nowledges Cecil Rucker, who already has logged 62 The Pumas are led by senior der. Junior forward Jan Crowe has ball to point A, only to have the recipient cut to point B minutes of playing time as compared to 40 all last guards Kelly Good ( 12.1 ppg.) and been plagued by a nagging foot in­while the bal.l sails out ofbounds. Or to see an opposing season. "I think I'm playing my role defensively, but Ronda Hillenburg ( 7.6 ppg. ). "Their jury, and will not play tonight. player standing by his lonesome under the basket, breaking down on rebounds." guards hurt us last year," says the Even though the Irish want to get receiving the: pass, laying it in and getting fouled by the Early season losses are generally accepted as learning second-year Irish coach. "They are even with the Pumas for last season's helpless Irish player who realized too late. Or to see a experiences. This one was more ofa crash course. "We very opportunistic. They look to run loss, DiStanislao doesn't want to nifty Paxson pass hit a teammate in the hands ... unex­all learned that we're gonna have to play more togeth­and they score a lot of their points place emphasis on revenge for pectedly. er," admitted Varner. "We have to quit hesitating and on fast breaks." tonight's game. ''I'd rather approach 
Thus are the growing pains of the I981-82 Fighting quit relying on one man. Basically, we just have to con­Freshmen forwards Ruth Kaiser this game as our season-opener in­Irish. centrate on the fundamentals." and Mary Beth Schueth will join stead of a chance to get even," she 
In practice·, players can communicate verbally with Paxson continued from there. "We did that pretty junior Shari Matvey in the Irish says. "Vengeance is an interesting each other -simple. In game situations, however, well early on. For the first 12 or 13 minutes we ex­frontcourt. Junior Debbi Hensley motive. Sometimes it psychs a team things ate a lot different. You couldn't heat yourself ecuted almost perfectly. You've gotta concentrate for and sophomore Theresa Mullins will out; they want to play the whole 
cough here Tuesday amidst 17,202 screaming 40 minutes, especially against teams like this. We just be the starting guards for the Irish. game in the first 30 seconds. We'll Hoosiers. The result was Paxson and Tom Sluby and let down at the end ofthe first halt; and never really got Even though DiStanislao is enter­just concentrate on playing sound others frantically waving their arms at one another and back into it." ing her second season at the Irish basketball." the most lopsided Notre Dame defeat in almost five Of course the cliches "bounce back" or "get on the years. winning track" come to mind when thinking about 
"I've got to get these kids to talk to each other more," Saturday'sclash with UCLA. But these players know bet­Phelps says. "They are, by nature a quiet group. But it is ter than to say something like, "I'm sure we'll bounce absolutely essential for us to get them communicating back Saturday." They must believe that they can beat out there." the Bruins, when on paper, they shouldn't. Instead, the 
There's that certain something that exists between tone is more of; ''I'm confident we can work hard to get players who have bec~n together for some time, a rap­things together soon. It just takes some time." port found in almost any team sport. Notre Dame's The frustrations that were eveident here in Tuesday's players and coaches ate confident that will come in loss to the host Hoosiers were not unexpected. Injuries time. are part ofcollege basketball (or any sport for that mat­
"Teams are totally different from year to year," ter). lnxperience is part of growing up. And on-the­asserted Paxson, who insists he's feeling no pressure to court communication is something learned through carry the t•eam as many have suggested. "Rosters hard work. But how soon Phelps' charges overcome 
(I.) andjuniorguard RodFos­



change, and players themselves change. What we need these basic obstacles will determine whether or not the ter are among those alledgedly implicated in the NCAA's 
• to do now is get together and work things out. It takes season will end March 7 in the Pontiac Silverdome. ;nvestigation ofUCLA's basketballprogram. 


