r------~---.----~ 
-·--.....---. --------------, 
Irish Extra -page 7 ~ ~ 

VOL XVI, NO. 63 an independent srudent newspaper serving notre dame and sa.inr mary's FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1981 

• ~.~···'~-·..~.,I ' <'• 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Senate Republican leaders agreed yester­day to seek 53.6 billion In new cuts from domestic programs. The Senators decided to spare defense cuts in a bid to avoid a veto ofleglsla­tion needed to keep the government (rom running out of money at mid­night. 
Without the additional spending cuts -an average offour percent in hundreds of programs -President Reagan "would undoubtedly veto" the huge emergency bill, said Senate Majority Leader Howard Baker. 
Baker said a veto probably would force Congress into an around-the­clock weekend session to produce a second measure that Reagan would approve. 
But with the cuts, Baker added, Reagan would put his signature on the measure needed to keep virtual­ly the entire federal government sol­vent. 
Baker predicted the Senate, later in the day, would vote its approval of the plan, which exempts the Pen­tagon, foreign aid and benefit programs such as food stamps and Medicare. 
A final Senate vote on the $417.4 billion spending bill -still S2.3 bil­lion more than Reagan wants -was expected last night or today. The bill would then return to the House, which earlier this week rejected a similar plan for new cuts. 
Reagan is scheduled to leave Sun­day for a weeklong Thanksgiving vacation in California, but White 
Barton discusses arms control 
By ED KONRADY 
News Staff 
Strategic arms control is more im­portant now than ever before be­cause of the major concern with nuclear weapons, according to Professor John). Barton, a professor oflaw at Stanford University. 
Barton spoke yesterday afternoon to a small crowd at 124 Hayes-Healy. His speech, "Enjoying Arms Control on a SALT (Strategic Arms limitation Treaty) Free Diet," dealt with problem of the symmetrical arms balance necessary to work out an­other arms limitation treaty. 
"Americans have a tendency to focus on the worst possible thing that could happen. The arms control community tends to focus on nuclear and strategic weapons. The military community tends to focus on the idea of an attack from the Soviet community," he said, calling this phenomenon the "Pearl Harbor mentality." 
Society tends to worry about nuclear weapons when making SALT and other arms limitation treaties, Barton said, and ignores the negotia­tions concerning of conventional weapons. 
"There arc: a number of reasons why conventional weapon negotia­tions are important. First, this is where the deaths arc:. Since World War II, many more people have been killed by conventional weapons than the nuclear bomb. 
"Risks of war have increased with an increase in conventional weapons; however, with nuclear 
Spare defense 
Republicans back domestic cuts 
,c~o '~ ·/ •J:'l. ... -.., ,, 
House spokesman David R. Gergen forecasts and deficit projections said yesterday that the president over the last six months. "would not leave Washington" if a The plan, which passed without' satisfactory bill were not worked recommendation, Is practically a out. copy of a budget outline approved 
Gergen, however, refused to tell earlier this year. At the suggestion of reporters if Reagan considers Sen. lawton Chiles, D-Fla., the panel Baker's S3.6 billion cut sufficient, estimated that without further ac­even though in passing the emer­tion to cut spending or raise taxes, gency spending bill, the Senate the deficit could reach $165 billion Budget Committee sent an overall by 1984. This year's deficit will budget plan to the floor which vir­range from S76 billion to S92 bil­tually ignores changes in economic lion. 
Roos claims monetary expansion hurts U.S. 
weapons, the fear of mutual destruc­power in Congress, is there any op­tion lowers the risks of war. Some position." people would even say that because Even with limits in arms exports, a ofnuclear weapons, the US and USSR decrease in the defense budgets and are farther from war than ever. a strategic limitation treaty of some 
"Thirdly, the economic costs of kind, arms control still faces the war is mostly in conventional problem that no effective police ac­weapons. In the United States, $14 tion will ever be effective against the billion is spent on strategic weapons United States and the USSR. 
while $65 billion is spent on con­ventional weapons. Only one fifth of 
Now mandatory
the S500 billion spent for world defense is for strategic weapons." Instead of trying to trim the budget for nut clear weapons so there 
Laundry service under review 
is more money for other projects, Barton suggests that we try to By BOB VONDERHEIDE reduce the budget for conventional and MARK BOENNIGHAUSEN 
News Staff
weapons. 
New alliances are needed to reduce the defense budget. The anti­Notre Dame Student Senator nuclear group, according to Barton, Brian Callaghan has begun a project is not strong enough to get the votes 
that could possibly persuade the necessary. A group of people who 
University to abolish the mandatory want to reduce the defense budget,· 
laundry fees for male students. control arms or increase produc­Presently, t the University charges tivity, could band together to get 
each male student about S75 per enough votes to alfect the amount of 
year for the laundry service regard­money spent for defense. 
less ofamount ofuse. One place the government could AStudent Senate survey taken last cut the conventional weapons 
October predicted that about 32 budget is in arms exports. "Our cur­percent ofthe men would choose to 
rent arms export policy is in a big wash their own t clothes. Another 38 mess. Arms have become a percent would use coin-operated 'currency,' a 'gift' to other leaders washers and driers occaisionally. 
when we visit or act as a host. Twenty-eight percent said they Today's currency is the F-16. The would use the laundry service ex­clusively.
idea ofvetoing arms exports doesn't work. Everytime the president goes Vice President for Business Affairs 
to Congress, he is going to win. Only Thomas Mason, who would have to when the arms are going to approve an optional laundry, says he 
countri~s that can hurt Greece and 
does not object to this program in Israel, two countries with a lot of theory. Mason added that no one has 
By GREG KOSSE 
News Staff 
St. louis Federal Reserve Bank 
President lawrence K.. Roos ex­
plained the complexities of the 
Federal Reserve System's stance on 
monetary supply reduction last 
night in the Center for Continuing 
Education. 
Roos explained why the Fed is reducing the monetary supply and responded to industry's criticisms that the bank is stifling production. Roos was the third and last in a series of banking lectures sponsored by Notre Dame's Finance Club. 
Before his chairmanship of the St. louis Fed, Roos served as president of Mound City Trust Company in St. louis and as chairman of the First Security Bank of Kirkwood, Mo. In 1975, he was elected executive vice president and a director of the First National Bank Bank in St. louis. He was chosen Man ofthe Year in 1975 by the T St. Louts Globe-Democrat. 
Roos refuted the interest­sensitive segments of the economy's (housing and automobile in­dustries) claims that their present plight is due to the slow growth of the money supply which raises in· terest rates. 
He said a decrease in the money supply would stimulate th~ economy. Increasing the money supply would only bring a tem­porary relief, but eventually, interest rates would rise even higher and the economy would experience larger inflation. 
To support his premise, Roos cited the economic trends of the past and how the Fed has reacted to pressure of interest-prone industry. When the Fed increased the money supply, the action "had a cumulative effect ofcausing the long-term trend rate ofgrowth in money to rise from 
1.5 percent in 1960 to approximate­ly 7.5 percent now, and directly produced the inflation we are presently experiencing." 
According to Roos, slower money growth does not promote higher in­terest rates. During the period from 1954 to 1966, the money growth rate was 2. S percent and interest rates were about 3.5 percent "Since 1966, annual money gro:wth in­creased to about 6.S percent and in­terest rates have risen to an average of 7.S percent. The increase in the average growth rate of money since 1966 is directly reflected in higher interest rates." 
Roos said that the economy is al-
See ROOS, page 3 
been able to locate space for new washing machines. 
"I don't have any disagreement with the voluntary use of the laundry," Mason said. "But let's see where we can put the machines. That's the main stumbling block." 
Mason is also unsure if a large enough percentage of men would start washing their own clothes to warrant the cost of the new machines. 
Callaghan said he has found space for machines in all the men's dorms except in Grace and Flanner. Callag­han will see if maintenance can in· stall wachines in the spaces. Callaghan expects a Senate proposal by Christmas. 
laundry Director Norm Muller said he could implement any plan of the University after solving initial logistical problems. "It's not a matter of whether I want (the optional laundry) or not," he said. "It's up to the University and students to work it out, but I can implement it." 
Mason and Muller met with Stu­dent Body President Don Murday and Callaghan over a month ago to discuss the proposal. As a result, the problem offinding the needed space for the machines is now in the "student's court," Mason replied. 
While Murday remains "optimistic," Mason thinks the proposal is "left in a quandry" be­cause ofthe space problem. 
Mason thinks the halls are already cramped for space without laundry machines. "In my mind, the study and social space is more important than laundry space," Mason said, ad­ding that few rectors would con­sider the idea very "nifty." 
Murday thinks the dorms with ample social space will make room for the washing machines. 
Murday added that if the proposal is accepted, maintenance wlll install washers and driers on a trial basis next semester to judge the student' s R:SJX>nSC. 


News Briefs 
Friday, November 20, 1981 -page 2 
By The Observer and The Associated Pres~ 
When Soviet PresidentLeonid I. Brezhnev arrives Sunday in Bonn, West Germany, on a four-day visit, the West Ger­mans will urge him to accept President Reagan's call for reduction of nuclear missiles in Europe. Chancellor Helmut Schmidt said he will use the visit -Brezhnev's first to the West since he and former President Carter signed the SALT II accords-to press the Kremlin leader to go along with Reagan's offer to end the deployment ofU.S. missiles in return for the dismantling ofSoviet rockets aimed at Wes­tern Europe. West Germans hope Brezhnev's visit will give them a firsthand view of Kremlin reaction to the plan, made by ReagaQ on Wednesday. -AP 
It takes female doctors twice as long as men to be promoted in some medical colleges, and the percentage ofwomen on medical faculties is smaller than it was in 1965, a new studysays. The study of four medical colleges shows that female physicians are promoted more slowly at all academic levels, but the researchers say the reasons for this are unclear. The results of the study appear in the Journal ofAmerican Medicine, published today. Dr. Lila Wallis, one ofthe study's authors, said her research showed that while the num­ber of women in medical schools has increased almost threefold over 1 5 years -to about 30 percent -women account for only about 10 percent ofall medical faculty. -AP 
A majority ofAmericans who are familiar with David Stockman's controversial statements about President Reagan's economic program think Stockman should keep his jqb as budget director, according to the latest Associated Press-NBC News poll. The poll also said Stockman's recently reported comments cas­ting doubt on Reagan's economic program have not changed most people's minds about the program's chances ofsuccess. A scientific random sampling contacted 1,602 adults nationwide. Participants were telephoned Monday and Tuesday. Forty-five percent said Stockmap's comments made no difference in the way they feel about Reaganls economic program, while 22 percent said the comments made them less optimistic about the program's success. Two per­cent said they were not sure, and 31 percent said they did not heard or read about Stockman's comments. Reagan rejected Stockman's offer to resign last week afterAtlantic Monthly published an article based on a series of interviews with Stockman over a 10-month period. -AP 
Actor Robert De Niro will play Josip Broz Tito in a movie about the life of the late Yugoslav leader, a Belgrade weekly reported yesterday. The film, to be produced by Brad Dexter, an American of Yugoslav origin, will be based on a book about Tito written by Sir Fitzroy McLean, according to the weekly, Novosty B. McLean was the chiefofthe British mission to partisan headquarters of Marshal Tito during World War II and was Tito's personal frk 1d. Mclean told the magazine the plot of the would run from Tito's childhood in his native village of Kumrovec till 1960. The name of the screenwriter is being kept secret, the magazine said. -AP 
The economy grew this summer despite early 
reports ofeconomic decline, the government said yesterday. None­
theless, economists said they are certain the nation is in a recession. 
Revising preliminary figures that had indicated a downturn, the 
Commerce Department said in a new report that inflation-adjusted 
gross national product rose at an annual rate of 0.6 percent in the 
July-September quarter. The Department of Commerce's prelimi­
nary report last month said "real" GNP -the value ofall the goods 
and services the nation produces -had dropped at an annual rate of 
0.6 percent in the third quarter after declining at a rate of 1.6 percent in the spring quarter. The tram.formation ofa decline into a gain was due almost entirely to a buildup in inventories, a clearly recession­ary trend indicating that manufacturers were having trouble selling their goods. -AP 
Justice Department attorneys believe that despite "a lot of smoke," President Reagan's national security adviser, Richard V. Allen, did not act unlawfully when he accepted $1,000 after helping Japanese journalists obtain an interview with Mrs. Reagan, sources said yesterday. The department sources, who asked not to be named, said a preliminary investigation by the public in­tegrity section has produced no evidence so far to warrant naming a special prosecutor; however, the sources added, the investigation and review of the evidence has not been completed. They said it would be "premature" to comment on whether a prosecutor would be appointed. It was expected that the department would make some official statement about the case before the day was out, but probably would not announce any conclusions. -AP 
An 80 percent chance of precipitation, with periods of light rain possibly becoming mixed with snow by daybreak today. Windy with light rain changing to snow flurries. Temperatures fal­ling from the mid and upper 30s into the upper 20s tonight. Snow flurries continuing into tomorrow. High in the mid 30s. -AP · 
Student center: 
Jim McDonnell was in an exceptionally good mood. In fact, the director of student activities was having a hard time keeping his excitement to himself Almost as soon as I walked into the Student Activities Office Wed­nesday, the reason for his glee jumped to the forefront of our conversation: progress on a new student center for Notre Dame. 
"Things are happening now that haven't happened in years around here," beamed McDonnell. "I think that we've reached the first step toward a new student cen­ter -the University is now philosophically behind the idea." 
Many NO students as well as some faculty members and other observers have become so complacent and cynical about the proposal for the student center that the conversation I've described above probably doesn't mean too much. We've been hearing a lot oftalk -and very little progress or even apparent concern -for years now. In fact there has been a lot offrustration on campus lately following the revelation that a structure housing laboratory animals might displace the student center as the next construction project'on the Univer­sity's agenda following the faculty office building. 
So why the cause for McDonnell's now? "For the first time, Fr. Hes­burgh has said that he is real­
ly behind the idea," McDonnell revealed. Cer­tainly this is a milestone. Hesburgh's full dedication 
to the student center con­cept is one of the keystones to the eventual construction of the facility. Before we get too optimistic, however, we must realize that even though Hesburgh has repor­tedly jumped on the bandwagon, there are many obstacles remaining. Three major concerns include a study to determine precise­ly what facilities should be included in the center, the search for a multi-miilionaire donor and~perhaps ~ost importantly, the selec_tion ofa site for the structure. 
McDonnell admitted to be in doubt about the site problem. At this point most observers can only spec­ulate on possible sites for any potential center. The site of the old fieldhouse (following its demolition), a strip ofland along St. Joseph's Lake, a portion of Green Field and a location midway along Saint Mary's Road have all been mentioned in the past as possible construction sites. During my discussion with McDonnell, he raised a new possibility: a site adjacent to the Morris Inn and directly across the road from Dillon Hall on the current site of one of the Burke Memorial Golf Course greens. At this point, however, such a suggestion is only one more to be added to the long list, and speculation will no doubt continue. 
Still, McDonnell's air of excitement is hard to shrug off. What has caused the cogs of the University to start moving on this long-festering problem? 
"Sq1dents are basically powerless." explained McDonnell. "But this time, they have finally collected 
f-The_OhserYer_ Design Editor ...................... Maura Murphy Design Assistant .......................... jim Keyes Layout Staff................................ Mary Shilts BiliZink Typesetters ....................................... AI Novas 
Stephen Brown 
Bruce Oakley News Editor ................... Mary Agnes Carey Copy Editors ............................... Rich Adam 
Paul Roper McGinn Features Layout.............. Gregory Swiercz Sports Copy Editor ............. Dave Dziedzic Sports Supplement............. Skip Desjardin Typists .................................... Dodee Carney 
· Laura Degnan Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor ........... Paul Roper McGinn Ad Design ................:................ Fran & Mary Photographer ......................... Cheryl Ertelt Guest Appearances ......... Vanian Trippers 
Gutter-mouthed cads and warm-handed 
wenches 
Apriest and his dog A father and his mouse 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) ts published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacatton penods The Observer ts published by the students of Notre Dame and Satnt Mary·s Col· lege Subscnpttons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnttng The Observer. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lndtana 46556 
The Observer ts a member of The Associated Press All reproductton nghts are reserved 
Second class postage patd at Notre Dame. lndtana46556 
fantasy to fact 

the kind of coalition necessary to get things done around here. The Board ofTrustees, the PACE Commit­tee, and the Alumni Board are all behind the concept now. 
"Don Murday was so impressive in his presentions to the trustees and other groups that they have finally become seriously aware ofthe needs ofstudents and in particular the need for a student center." McDonnell recalled. "I myself haven't seen a more impressive presentation from a student during the time I've been here." 
"No one can argue that Murday has not tried his best to promote the student center concept. For three years now, he has hammered away at the trustees and other influential groups. I was present at the Alumni Board's 
fall meeting and witnessed his presentation to that group, and I can report that . there were more than a few impressed -and aroused ­alumni faces looking back from over the conference tables after Murday made his points. Many were par­ticularly indignant when told about the precedence of the laboratory animal shelter over the student cen­ter and about the side­effects of a lack of social space on campus. 
Ifwe are indeed closer to the day of groundbreaking for the center, as Jim 
!J/7 McDonnell believes, then 
much ofthe credit should go to Murday, his staff and his predecessors in the role of student body president; however it is much too early to be handing out laurels. The excitement this week has yet to be substantiated in terms ofpublic statements or dollars and cents. There is undoubtedly a long road ahead for the student center concept and a requisite need for continuing pressure and diligence on behalfof our elected student leaders. But still, it was particularly satisfying, during an otherwise boring and overcast week, to hear ofa little ray ofsunshine on this matter. 
rserver notes 
, The Observer needs a day editor in its Saint 1\.,ary's office on Thursday afternoons. Interested Saint Mary's students should contact Saint Mary's Executive Editor Mary Agnes Carey at 41-5127 or Saint Mary's News Editor Cathy Domanico at 277­2244 for more information. 

Look Into Torrington ... If you're looking for a career with diversity and challenge. Opportunities in sales, pro­duct, manufacturing, design and research engineering. • The Torrington Company is a major international manufac­turer of anti-friction bearings and precision metal products for all kinds of industries around the world. Plants and offices in North and South America, Europe, Africa. Asia and Australia. • Our outstand­ing training programs provide rapid professional growth for engineers in technical sales and other areas. • The Tor­rington Company, Torrington, CT 06790. • An equal oppor­
.tunity employer. 
Interviewing December 4 
TORRINGTON 
Partof worldwide Ingersoll-Rand 


Friday, November 20, 1981 -page 3
The Observer 

Preventative measures 
Forum addresses alcohol issue 
By SUSAN FLECK 
News Staff 
An Open Forum on the topic ofal­cohol at Notre Dame was attended by about 30 people last wednesday ni~ht in the Flanner Commons. 
Members of the panel include David Link, Dean of the Law School and member of the PACE commmit­tee on Student Life; Psychological Services Counselor Peggy Cronin, Flanner Hall President Lloyd Burke; Keenan Hall President Paul Cal­lahan; Lt. Cmdr. Richard Horstmann; and Professor Walter Davis. 
Dean Link's study on alcohol use at ND is "charged with a .::uggested program on what to do with alcohol on campus." Link described two points of his planning; a quick­response, "fire fighting plan," and a more intense, "fire prevention plan." He said that these 
• • • Roos 
continuedfrom page 1 
ready beginning the slow progress of recovery. Short term interest rates arc already decreasing. He expressed special concern that the public must give support to the monetary policy. When this vote of confidence is given, interest rates will begin to go down. 
Roos concluded that "the only way to bring interest rates down and keep them down is to adopt, ad­vertise and adhere to a policy to gradually reduce the growth rate in money." 
Roos, given a plaque, mug, book, shirt and Senior Bar Card, com­mented, "I'll come back next week." 
PrwOCCHIO'S PIZZA PARLOR 
-Hours Fast Delivery Service 
Mon-Thurs 11 am-12 pm 
277-4522
Fri-Sat 11 am-1 :30 am 
Sun 4 pm-11 pm 
-Beer Specials 
Every Nita 8:00-10:00 
$1.75 Pitcher $.50 Mug 
-HAPPY HOUR 
Mon-Frt 4 pm-6 pm 

Fri-Sat 8 pm-12 am 4 tt wide screen TV 
E 
s
PLEASE-one coupon per pizza N emmono 
hls7c;~p~;'g;~"'Tljh";'~~~Oo-J /r..J 
tor one tor one ~.#'~ 
juniper 
LARGE PIZZA MEDIUM PIZZA -~ 
$1.00 OFF $.75 OFF 
~~~~!.0.:.! 1-!~!~~~::~:~1 
preventative measures must come 
from a revised attitude on campus. 
The point of this forum as indi­
cated by the Dean was not the usual 
debate of "whether or not our 
problem is greater or less than other 
universities", but rather what to do 
since "the problem exists." 
Horstmann, a Notre Dame 
NROTC instructor, related the 
similarities between Navy life and 
"A large percentage of problem drinkers come from very repressive or very liberal backgrounds., 
ND life, noting that neither group has had any formal education on al­cohol and that those with problems run the gamut of the age group ­not only students, but older faculty members as well. He said that it is necessary to promote responsible attitudes and to identify and help people in order to reduce the problem ofalcoholism. 
Along the same lines, Davis declared "students, faculty, and staff are all in this together." He stated that counseling is the answer to drinking, not discipline. Rccogni· tion of the problem and treating it arc more important than punishing actions that result from excessive drinking, according to Davis. 
On the the HPC Alcohol Policy, Flanner Hall President Lloyd Burke emphasized that Notre Dame has a drinking problem which must be confronted on a dorm and individual level. Party rooms arc for socializing, not for drinking and getting drunk, acco~i_n_IL!~e HPC statement. 
Also, dorms are encouraged to 
implement rules restricting the per­
centage of funds allocated to al­
coholic beverages. The HPC calls for a re-evaluation of the priority of al­cohol at social functions and the formation ofalcohol commissions in each dorm in order to sponsor greater awareness. 
In conclusion Link said "drinking is one of the most serious student life problems at ND." He also stated that a large percentage of problem drinkers come from very repressive or very liberal backgrounds. The family of Notre Dame has to deal with the problem through com­munity efforts and a statement released by the Administration recognizing the problem, according to Link. 
During the question and answer period a variety of suggestions and questions were brought up. One stu­
dent believed that examples of alumni are followed by students-therefore ridding the campus of beer tents during alumni functions 
could provide a shock value co make 
the alumni realize that everyone has to participate in the effort. Social space was also another option con­
sidered in coping with the drinking problem. Whatever the decision, according to Link, "what I'd like to have by spring is a University state­ment and some policies." 



OBSeRveR 
HOlOGRAPH 
fJwt luwe llfJ~eaJWl "' fke ~llfJelt 
Send $4.00 and the date and photographer's name to: 
john Macor 
Photo Editor 
Box Q 
Notre Dame , Indiana 
46556 
Include a return address. 
----. --··-----­
...ll!~•~•aP_,­
1·~1..£·.:::.-f•"~.!_llll~~ti/~,_.,•cJ•~~~.,-~-IIC:;.·rn~I-.II!I~IIC:;.-. 
~.._.. • 1 !ft.._. y ~ n • 1 • 1~1117• 1 1 I) 1117
1 
(:()llcltJt:l~cJ ()l !<()~~~ 131 ~~§ 
Sunday, November 22 at 8:00 pm in the Little Theater of Moreau Hall 
free admission all members of SMC-ND 
• "t 1
COmmUni Y We COme 
• 

HELD OVER 3RD BIG WEEK 
-·-­
DUE TO POPULAR DEMAND 
SPECIAL MIDNIGHT SHOW TONIGHT AND 
~·IF' 
FLY THEM ... AND GET A RIDE LIKE YOU'VE NEVER HAD IN YOUR LIFE WITH ... 
THE 
A 
s 
s 
/-----S-PECIAL --~--~" 
1 MIDNIGHT SR~W ) 
--·----------j
E from ALTERNATIVE FILM SOCIETY Exclusively at 
RIV.ER PARK THEATRE
s 
doors open at 11 :30 
shows start at Midnite. 
TURDAY 
F 
R ·E 
E 
G 
A 
s 
s 
E 
s 

--~-------------------~-----------------~-­
_Friday, November 20, 1981 -page 4
Features 
Embarking on the Urban 'Pillage' 

A 'special' Christmas 
showing up around the windows drew us to grandma's house may and doors ofAmerica instill an have already been replaced by the anachronistic shock, but they are sound of Burllves telling of"Rudolf welcome. After all, with the World the Red-Nosed Reindeer" or the Series over what else is there? prospect ofwatching "White 
Christmas" onBetamax. The net­works have the marketing technique down: "A heartwarming tale for the 
Most ofthe commerciali t sm whole family." doesn't really bother me. I was once 
I 
an activist in theNEO-over the river and through the woods school of Don't mistake me. I love the
Christmas nostalgia, but now I have Grinch; Linus's reading from the
come to accept things like Gospel ofLuke is one of my favorite
prewrapped presents, plastic trees moments in television. But there are
and even Ronald McDonald in a red just too many ofthem. Christmas
suit and beard. Besides, ifthere is "variety" shows have lost their
one thing worse than Christmas variety and the "specials" have been
commercialism, it's columnists complaining about Christmas com­
smothered in an avalanche of mercialism. 
celebrity family carolers and still more versions of Dickens'A Christmas Carol adapted for "modern audiences." 
I can't really say what upset me about the threat ofthis seemingly harmless hour oftelevision. I am not an anti-video radical. I had no part in The Christmas dramas are usuallythe picture tube burnings ofthe well done. Many convey the.spirit 
M 
any Notre Dame students will partake in what is known as an "Urban Plunge," that is, they will spend time in a urban area ofa big city and find out what kind oflife 
By Gus Tamborello 
other people lead. Over the mid­
semester break, I went home to 
Houston and took part in my own 
little urban plunge. 
Houston is a city ofphenomenal growth. Over a thousand move there each week, many ofwhom are Eastern businessmen. The problem is, crime grows where the money goes, so to speak. One out ofevery four Houstonians is a victim ofa felony each year. My urban plunge allowed me to become a member of this statistic. 
For the first few days, I visited one ofthe worst slums in the area called Fifth Ward, or "The Bloody Fifth" to those who live there. This is an area where rats run around like dogs, and hoboes and street-corner men are as prevalent as stop signs. The area houses people who live below the poverty level. Many want to work, but local businesses are run out by the terrible crime rate. 
The ironic thing ofit all was that no one bothered me as I went through this area. My trouble began when I went to the bus station on the outskirts ofdowntown Houston a couple of miles away. 
I wanted to go to Austin to visit a 
friend at the University ofTexas and 
I had to catch the bus at the 
downtown terminal. I didn't really 
mind that because I thought I could 
get into the "urban life" even fur­
ther. I wanted to find out, too, if 

while paging 
through today's big city daily ­murder, poverty, cancer,DearAbby -this item drew my focus: George 
Burns'EARLY, EARLY, EARLY 
Christmas Special. It's neve;-too 
earlyfor George Burns, so start the yuletide 
with George and 
i!ii! 
Paullosidowski 
Second Thoughts 
his specialguests: Bob Hope, The Playboy Playmates, Hans Conrted, The Hawkins Family, Raw Satin andSpecial Guest StarAnn­Margret. 
What more could Santa ask for? 
As eageras Iam to get my yuletide "swinging," I unfortunately missed George and Bob and their Holiday antics last Monday night. Oh, I don't have anything against the Playmates or Ann-Margret (with apologies to Groucho) becoming a part of my Christmas celebration. I just figured that there would be many oppor­tunities to watch something along the same lines in the near future. 
I don't really mind the Early, Ear­ly, Early bit. The smidgens oftinsel and evergreen that are already what people say about busstations is really true. Well, I found out. 
I had my sisterdrive me to the bus station. We were really happy be­cause we found a parking meter right in front. The problem was, my sister brought her two children with her, so we looked like we were about to take a family trip to 
grandmother's house. 
We walked in very quickly, be­cause vagrants lined the walls ofthe station and we didn't want to take any chances. Plus, two days earlier, my grandmother and aunt were walking to the bus stop a few blocks down and a young boy came up to my grandmother, grabbed her gold necklace offofher neck and ran. Upon calling the police, she was told that they just could not cover every area of town. So be it. 
We went straight to the ticket counter as we got in the door. I was amazed to see how really run down the place was. There was not even a security guard. But, we were in safe, so we didn't worry too much about it. 
I went up to the counter to buy my ticket and in walks one ofthe hoboes I had seen outside. He was heading straight for me, so Istopped talking to the ticket lady. The man had a green army jacket and was barefooted. He said, "Hey, how ya doin'?" 
I said, "Fine," and was fairly nerv­ous as to what his next move might be. I thought for sure that he was going to ask me for money. 
Well, he didn't ask. I had the money for the bus ticket in my hand and, trying to ignore the man, placed ten dollars ofit on the counter. Sud­den!¥ the man grapped the money and stormed out ofthe door. Two other men in the busstation ran after him. 
I stood there as ifI had justlost my American Express traveller's checks. I was hoping Karl Malden would walk in the door, but then again, he would have reprimanded me for carrying cash. 
The ticket lady was in shock. She said that this had never happened before. That really didn't concern me at this point. I was more furious about the lack ofsecurity than about the ten lost bucks. 
Afew minutes later, though, the two men dragged in the vagrant that ripped me off. The bus people took him in the back. The bus was leaving at 11:15, and it was now 11:00. The bus people called the police, and miraculously, they made it there in about 10 minutes. 
The questioned the guy and he claimed to beJesus Christ. His first words were, "Swear to God, I'm Jesus Christ." But Mr. Christ did not have my ten bucks. He said he dropped it when the two men chased him. The police searched him, and sure enough he didn't have my money. The police asked me what happened and I told them that I was putting money on the counter and the guy took it. 
"Whose money was it?" he asked. What a stupid question, I thought. "Mine," I said. "Do you want to press charges?" he followed. 
"Well," I answered, "does that 
mean I'll have to appear in court?" 
"Yeah, in about 30 days." 
I couldn't press charges because 
I'd be in school and I wasn'tgoing to ·come home from a thousand miles away to put a man in jail for stealing 
ten dollars. So I asked if my sister could press charges. He answered no. He said that since it was my money, I had to press charges. So, I told him that my sister gave me the money before we got to the bus sta­
tion. Ofcourse, he didn't believe me and answered, "That would be against this man's Constitutional right. And I'm not going to go against our Constitution." 
Then he said, "Well, maybe we can book him on abusive language." 
I had to laugh. Here he wouldn't let me lie about the money, but he felt he had the duty to make up an of­fense. Meanwhile, the bus driverwas 

flooring his accelerator pedal, hin­ting that the bus was waiting for me. I decided that I wouldn t 't ruin my trip, so I left and told him to do what he wanted. 
Later, my sister called the bus sta­tion. They told her that they released him immediately. 
The purpose ofall ofthis is not to discourage anyone from going on an Urban Plunge. I think the lesson learned was extremely worthwhile. Just remember, though, go in with an open mind, and a closed pocket­book. 
homes is to rob us ofthe quiet glory of that spirit. 
I know that drama created by the world's greatest artists could never hold a candle to some of the mo­ments from my past years. No author could have touched me like my mom did when she "gave" me the first letter I had written from school. My sister's version of"Silent Night" beats Andy Williams' by~ mile. My dad can tell a joke better than George Burns ever could. 
Thank God for that. 
'60s. But I am uneasy about the oil­and-water juxtaposition ofthe modernity of television and the tradition ofChristmas. 
Christmas seem·; to be one of the few things still firmly rooted in tradi­tion, and therefore isolated from change. But t t raditions change too; they are born, they grow and they die. 
Television has become an impor­tant tradition. The smell ofsugar cookies and nut bread that once well and some are very touching. They present real people who get something very meaningful out of the Christmas experience. They are emotionally packed, involve supreme sacrifices. We are supposed to react accordingly. 
In a disconcerting way, these dramas present a challenge to us. "Are your Christmas's like this?" they ask. After being saturated with their sentimentality, we wonder if our holidays are as charming or as eventful. In fact, we get so emotional watching them that our sensitivity stays in the den with the television. We are so moved by what happened on Walton mountain that, by com­parison, the "Christmas" happening in the next room becomes trivial. 
I am convinced that beyond all the hype and fakery there is a solid foundation of"true spirit." It can be felt in those moments that are spe­cial because they are so rare. To fic­tionalize those moments, put them on a screen and pump them into our 
Friday, November 20, 1981 -page 5
The Observer --Features 
The chocolate soldier 
. 
T
hey sat at a table near the window, watching the lights on the water. Neither ofthem would ever be young again. They were afraid ofbeing overtaken by 

Rev. Robert Griffin 
midnight, when ther evening would end. Conscience, they were saying, made cowards of them both. 
"There's no sense in pretending," he said, "that Letters to a Lonely God wouldn't be comforting. But when it was over, we could be destroyed by regret." 
expensive restaurant, listening to love songs on a piano. "I would remember," she said, "that it had happened 
When I'm an old man, waiting to die, some nun in a once. That would always be comforting to me." 
nursing home will want to sing me a song to fall asleepHe placed his hand over hers. "Piea~e." he said, I 
by. I'll ask for a bitter sweet tune about the mysterywould be afraid of the morning." 
called love, and she will think I'm crazy." "I know," she said." I would never want anything that 
"You can tell her that you were a chocolate soldier," I thought would hurt you." 
she said, who was loved by a lady as pure as sugar." "Anyway," he said, "the problem is: nothing ever hap­
''I'll tell her we were eaten by mice," he said. It cer­pens only once." 
tainly feels that way." They sat there wordlessly, in love with the sweetness 
"The drinks are wearing off, the candles are burningof the other's presence. The evening was reaching its 
down, and you're feeing sorry for yourself," she said. climax in this silent affection. The high excitement that 
"Tomorrow, wewill still have love, and we won't have had come wth early drinks was beginning to fade like a 
to make apologies to anyone, even ourselves." flower that has lost touch with the morning. 
"With our innocence intact for the Christmas ballet," "One should either love foolishly," he said, or not 
he said. "One lives dangerously as a chocolate soldier." love at all. Hell is pretending virtue that you don't really 
At eleven o'clock, they left the restaurant, having mean, because you are afraid." 
finally decided to find a motel. The car they were Somewhere from a piano bar, a girl was singing Cole 
driving belonged to her aunt. Porter. 
'"Dear old witch," she said affectionately, speaking of her aunt. "She's my godmother, you know, and she ex­
What ts this thing called love? 
pects me home by twelve." 
This funny thing called love? 
"We'll have to call her," he said, "Why do you call her 
just who can solve its mystery? 
a witch?" 
Why should tt make a fool ofme? 
"Because she's old, and knows everything," she said. 
I sawyou there one wonderful day. 
"I've never been able to lie to her." She suddenly
You took my heart and threw tt away. 
shivered. 
That's why I ask the Lord tn Heaven above, 
"What's the matter?" he asked. 
What ts this thing called love? 
"I felt funny," she said, "as though there were mice 
running down my back." "Whatever love is," he said, "I do think I love you." Getting out ofthe car at the motel, he kissed her. "You're devoted," she said, "like a chocolate soldier." "Your hair," he said, "in the moonlight, looks as though "What does that mean?" he said. "That I'm not Marlon it has turned to glass." 
Brando?" "I never noticed before" she said, "how much you "I don't know what it means," she said. "I thought it ·look like Marlon Brando." sounded pretty." "Holding you," he said dreamily, "I feel as though I 
"I know I don't have a lot ofcourage," he said. "It am touching the purest crystal." makes me feel bloodless. I sometimes feel I'm not very "Oh my God," she said, "your lips taste like fudge ... as real. Is that why you call me a chocolate soldier?" tough you really were... a chocolate soldier." 
"You're the sweetness ofcandy that will melt in the The both turned to look at the old yellow car, as rain," she said tea~ingly. "I'm the marzipan lady from the though suddenly realizing it could turn into a pumpkin. Christmas ballet. Nothing is hard for us because it's all Witches who are godmothers grow mischievous at so pretty." midnight, like the consciences that make cowards ofus 
"Our evenings always end like this," he said, "in an all. 
-
Dance portrays expressions 
H
uman existence operates on the Abiogenesis Dance Collective prof­fluidity ofcla~sical ballet in which experiential level. Each unit of fered a window through which on­this piece was rooted. time, space and energy coagulates lookers could glimpse the evolving Each ofthe remaining nine pieces into a moment that continuously realities around them. A World War succeeded to varying degrees to 
Three holocaust, the activities of express in the experiential and l:x­pedestrian traffic and the mechani-perimental mode particular aspects oflife. Some were familiar to all like 
Tori Brown 
cal workings ofan office were some "Office Procedures" which high­of the themes of their works. The lighted office equipment or "Pillow Collective utilized movement Talk" which relied on the innocent 
studies and mime rather than classi­seductiveness ofthe 'smooth' pillow cal dance forms to express these to give it the classic 'boy meets girl' varies. Patterns form, leaving im­
themes. look. 
pressions and memories of the Classified as an experimental "Toccata" and "City" put into solitary event just experienced. Ufe school ofdance, their studies ob­movement the inner tensions and consists ofa continuum ofsuch mo­viously evolved from the classical paradoxes ofthe world in which we ments, spontaneous generation of 
forms but were not restricted by live. The former gave a view ofwhat one moment to the next. 
their structures. They flew as high life will be after a nuclear holocaust; Abiogenesis. and wide as the individual dancer's the latter blatantly displayed the ten­Art forms endeavor to capture imagination. The units ofspace, time sion between non-communication these moments, piece them togeth­and energy ofeach dancer 
and the inner desire to reach out to er and release a glimpse of how originated from within and con­
others. human existence is perceived. An cetrated itself in the context of the These various units ofenergy, eager audience views such forms dances. 
time and space succeeded in with a hungry mind, ready to partake Ofthe ten pieces, "4 Women was 
drawing the audience into the ex­ofthe moments. Hopefully these ex­problematic. It strived to be a classi­perienceoflife as perceived through periences generate a reevaluatin of cal piece juxtaposing suspension dance. Art sincerely imitated life. old fixed views oflife. Abiogenesis. and collapse but sadly failed. The Hopefully now, abiogenesis will ex­
This past Wednesday evening, choreography lacked the necessary pand that life. 

enests
obi 0 
_.,dOW" CJZ. co 1\e 

"What Glue Can Do," an exhibition ofassemblage by Don Vogl, opensSunday, Nov. 22 attheSniteMuseum of Art. There will be an open reception from 2 to 4 p.m. 
Midwest offers less than pleasant thoughts 
W
hat's the matter with the Midwest? It seems that everyone not from it, and some ofthose who are, can't stand the place. Dif­ferent people give different reasons for loathing it: 
1) There is no ocean out here. Whoever heard ofgoing to the beach ofa polluted lake? There's probably more surfin a bathtub. There's no shark attacks either. What is going to liven up those long. sweaty afternoons, lolling in the sand, without an occasional clearing of the water, and maybe even a sighting? The worst that can happen in a lake is you might be gummed by a confused coho. 
2)There are no big cities. Besides Chicago, the Midwest is nothing more than farms, small towns, and more farms. Feeble attempts at citydom, like South Bend, are laughable at best. Even Chicago is sort ofa half-hearted. Who ever heard ofa skyline consisting ofthree 
buildings? 
3) the sports teams out here are terrible. One only has to mention such names as the 

Cubs, Bears, Wilcats, to evoke thundering yawns ofen­thusiasm from fans. You know they are bad when you see the Humor high schools getting equal coverage in the local sports page. 
4) the newspapers out here read like high school journalism class projects. The Chicago Trib is the only major city newspaper I've seen that routinely runs Boy eats own foot stories on the front. page. It's only redeeming quality is the comics page. The South Bend Trib (what's with all this 'trib' stuff? Can't they think ofanything else to call them?) is even worse. God forbid some dog doesn't get lost or some kindegardener say something cute or they'd be out offront page stories. A big scoop is when the guy who writes the business page finds out about the big sale at Kroger's before the Home-life people. 
Let's,face it, the Midwest is boring with a capital B. You know it's 
hurting when people start looking forward to tornadoes. The Wizard 
ofOz was the great-est thing to ever happen to the Midwest. You 
don't know how many people each year throw themselves into tor­
nadoes to try to escape. 
Even the commercials on 1V are boring. I've learned more than enough about how to kill pesky root worms in my corn fields. I'm curious to know ifwater beds are now the main industry in South Bend. Every third ad on the radio is for somebody sellingwaterbeds. And the names ofthese stores, what creativity! Waterbeds, waterbeds, waterbeds? Lifestyle waterbeds? (Does the new lifestyle come with it?) Most ofthe ad writing must be done by a co-op program with the South Bendgrade schools. No rational adult could be responsible for those. 
It's funny when a native Midwesterner gets defensive about their tur[ Listen buddy, where do you think tha bread you're eating comes from? 
Cows and wheat. Is that all the Midwest Is good for? 
Chicago is one ofthe biggest cities in the country. 
Big deal. Compared to most cities out East, Chi-town ain't beans. New York's ghettos are ten times bigger and more dangerous than Chicago's. In a rumble, Chicago's street gangs would get their butts kicked by New Y t ork's hoods. New York has more trash, more pollu­tion, probably more rats, they even have their own filthy waterway. Chicago does have Gary, though. Nothing beats Gary. . 
The Trib loves to trumpet jane Byrne's latest political screwup, and all other government corruption for that matter, on its front page. You want corruption? Come to Washington. That stuffabout kickbacks, bribes, cardinals keeping mistresses; that stuffdoesn't even rate third page coverage in the Post. There's so much greed, lying, and general evil in D.C., no one cares anymote. When it comes to political immorality, Washington makes Chicago look llke a week­ly bridge club meeting. 
The poor Midwest. Everyone dumps on it all the time. I guess someone has to be from it, but I'm glad it's not me. 







Friday, November 20, 1981 -page 6
Editorials 
Baby boom faces job squeeze· 
On a recent Sunday evening, five It's mathematical: Though the begin to notice that their older status, prestige and authority. friends in their mid-20s gathered population of Americans who would brothers and sisters in white-collar Indeed, surveys of today's busi­
Maxwell Glen
around a kitchen table to eat dinner normally compete for jobs aren't going anywhere. And ness students show that experience in and watch "60 Minutes." management-related jobs will rise they'll eventually seek new ways to a variety of jobs can be preferable to 
and Cody Shearer
They were some of the brightest over 40 percent by 1990, the number avoid the unrewarding rat race. salary hikes and pressure-filled job graduates of this state's public uni­of job openings will only swell about Rather than moving up what Dis­responsibilities. And ironically, versity system. Since college, 20 percent during that period. Our raeli called the "greasy pole of recent surveys of chief executives Here and Now however, each friend had been friends should be prepared to handle success," business professors advise also shows that, once they make it, forced to abandon his or her career the crunch, but few are expecting it. trying new occupatioils every five or top managers attach little value to the more pessimistic approach and do plan and take what jobs were In popular terms, millions of 10 years. trappings of their position. anything to get ahead in the coming available. It had been a matter of sur­baby-boomers won't reach the Lip­Sacrificing a traditional career Such reports indicate the nation crunch. vival. per rungs on the ''ladder of success'' may seem like a dead-end proposi­may already be altering its notion ofa Like it or not, our flexible contem­
Howard, an English major, gave that they always assumed were with­tion, but might be more rewarding in successful career. And that's good ·poraries will have to become the sur­up pursuing a master's degree to in their grasp. It's not uncommon the long run. New skills and news to us. vivalitsts of the 1980s. We're work in a bookstore. today to find 35-year-old super­knowledge are arguably better for Of course, not everyone will adapt counting on them to be creative 
Tammy, a would-be commercial visors who, bored with their work, personal growth than . yearning for to the times. Many will instead take a trailblazers. designer, is helping remodel a face another 10 years before a decent downtown department store. promotion comes through. 
John, who has a bachelor's degree Compensating for the loss of in music, had to settle for coaching routine advancement won't be a snap young clarinetists one night per for our friends. After all, our nation week. has worshipped promotions and high 
Mary, John's wife, now drives a salaries for generations. Where do school bus part-time and waits for you go and what do you do if you political campaign work. can't "get ahead"? 
After years of school and tuition "Our traditional notions of loan repayments, these young success will have to change from Americans know that the economy both the point of view of the has been hard on them. None needed employer and employee," said Ken­to be told by Ronald Reagan that the neth Brousseau, a University of country was in a "bit of a reces­Southern California business profes­sion." They've done their best to sor and career development research­find work near their fields, or change er. "It won't happen overnight. vocations entirely. Horatio Alger is still very strong in 
Yet a bigger test of their flexibility people's minds." lies ahead. Children on the baby­Brousseau told our reporter Mic­boom generation are in for what the hael Duffy that baby-boomers best Wall Street Journal calls a crunch in not underestimate the odds against white-collar ''middle­them. "For the majority, it would be management" jobs. a mistake to assume that' I'll be one 
According to the Journal, the next of the favored few,"' he adds. 10 years will see dark days for "Everyone between 18 and 35 is American between 18 and 35. The going to face unprecendented com­job promotions and salary increases petition and will have to decide if they're expecting won't be as plenti­they want to deal with it.'' ful as everyone would like. Soon, younger Americans will 
P. 0. Box Q 
misled so many into believing). As barrassing to many. The advice and If Frese's suit had been an in­Iranian student with the '60s hippie soon as the case became a class ac­the acceptance of that advice were dividual suit, the University could, look talking to his advisor. He was tion suit, the issue became not based purely on expedience (which and undoubtedly would, have fought complaining that Emil Hofman whether Ms. Frese merited pro·mo­Professor Duffy rightly condemns it as a matter of principle and won it. would not allow him to leave his 
Frese question 
continues as 
tion on the basis of her academic because he believes a University As a class action, it was too much to chemistry quiz saying there was no record; it became whether she or any should uphold its ideals). handle. And so it took the expedient room for politics in chemistry. 
one of the other 67 women who advice of its reputable lawyers, to joined her suit had been dis-But acceptance of rhe expedient treat Dolores Frese as an aberration. course does not mean that Ms. Frese The final irony in all this is that 
professor backs 
I am sure that Jeb Cashin was notcriminated against on the basis of sex
University 
won her case on the basis of her though Ms. Frese involved 67 other for promotion, pay, class assign­making a personal attack on Dr. Hof­record. The merits of her record have women in her class action suit to get
Dear Editor: ments, etc. Moreover, successful man. Emil is very sensitive to the 
never been judged legally. They what she wanted, none of them will 
Professor Rodes is no doubt cor­defense of the case depended on problems of students, especially
have, however, been judged get what they wanted, now that their 
rect in pointing out in his recent letter Notre Dame's ability to prove it had foreign students. He has made an ef-·
professionally--four times by four suit has been efficiently terminated 
to the Observer that the legal firm not discriminated, not only against fort to know us and to make us feel at
differently composed promotions by the action of Ms. Frese's lawyers. 
representing the University in the the 68 women, but against any home. He even offered to provide a
committees of the English Depart­
Frese case did not get its high reputa­woman in the entire University going "home away from home" for an 
ment, four times by two different Sincerely,
tion by advising is clients to settle back to a time before we had coeds or Iranian student who felt uncom­
English Dept. Chairmen, four times Robert J. Lordi, 
cases that can be won, but his in-. women professors here, i.e. to a time fortable in his dormitory. 
by the Dean of Arts and Letters, four Professor ofEnglishference from that premise (that the when our sexual attitudes were closer 
times by two different provosts, four 
Frese case therefore had merit) is an injudicious non-sequitur. His in­to St. Jerome's than to those of the Iranian siudeni The cartoon may give readers a ference might be valid if the Frese women's liberation movement. times by four deans' committees, wrong impression of Dr. Hofman. case was to be adjudicated on its in­Since the burden of proof was on the once by a specially appointed Uni­objects to While Mr. Cashin was not making a dividual merits rather than as part ofa University to prove its innocence of versity committee, and four times by personal attack, I wonder whether he class action. But it was not an in­all sexual discrimination (difficult to the President of the University. In intended to get a good laugh at the dividual suit. do in any circumstance, impossible each individual judgment, Ms. portrayal in expense of the professor. Too bad, 
in the context just described), and not Frese's record was found not worthy Mr. Cashin in his endeavor to be a Ms. Frese ( who no one ever on the plaintiffs to prove they merited of promotion. Given this record of 'Simon' cartoon cartoonist does not have the sen­promotion or pay, the University's twenty-one separate judgments by sitivity of Dr. Hofman. Maybe he
accused of being a fool) did not make 
highly reputable law firm advised the diverse University officials, Prof. could learn to deal with sensitivethe mistake of suing on the merits of University to settle out of court, to Rodes must believe a conspiracy was This letter concerns the cartoon issues with finesse. 
her individual case (which she could 
afoot to assert (gratuitously)that strip "Simon" which appeared in Ayman Haddadin not have won since her record was far save itself time, money, and a good "those processes would not stand up The Observer on Tuesday, -Novem­Maad Abughazalah from the "exemplary" one she has deal of public testimony perhaps em-under scrutiny." ber 3. This cartoon was about an Members ofthe l.S.O. 
Editorial Board 
==~Obser-=ver== ______ ·--··-_ Editor-in-Chief............................. .John McGrath 
THE INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
t:xecutive News Editor.........................Kelli-Fllm Sports Editor ..............................Michael Ortman
SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
News Editor ..................................Tim Vercellolli Editorials Edttor.......................An!hony Walton FOUNDED NOV. 3, _!?§6: News Editor.............................Davld Rickabaugh 
Photo Editor........................................john Macor 
The Observer is an independent · Editorials represent the opinion of a SMCExecutive Editor........... Mary Agnes Carey 
Features Editor .........................Gregory Swiercz 
Jewspaper published by the students of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commen· SMC "!!_ws Editor......................Cathy Domanico 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint taries. opinions and leuers are the views of 
Mary's College. It does not necessarily their authors. Column space is available to 
Department Managers 
reflect tpe policies of the administration of all members of rhe community, and the free either institution. The news is reported as expression of varying opinions on campus, __ . . _l}_U!}ness~anaser ........... . .. ...... Rich Coppola accurately and as obj_<:cl!_vely _as ~ossible. through leuers, i~~ncour~lle~,-Production Manager................... Michaei Monk Controller........................................ :::.}oe. Mulfiur 
P.O.BOX Q,NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 (219)283-8661 Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan Advertising Manager.......................C::hris Owen 
e Irish Extra 
an Observer sports supple:ment 
Friday, November 20, 1981 -page 7 

Irish-Lion confrontation arrives 
.,.:\~~Two teams seem headed 
. . .~/. !~ua?£~Site dir~:.~~?~.~'P'"oo·''"'"'•7 
Sports Writer loss to Southern California on October 24. 
Before bis career is over, Curt Warner 
(25) most likely will be Penn State's all-
time leading'rusber. See story page 9. ( AP Photo) 
UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. -A local food 
market here has been running a radio ad all 
season long that, like most other ads and bil­
lboards in this part of the country, extolls the 
praises of Penn State football. This particular 
ad, though, was unique: "We're No. 1," says 
the grocer, "and we'll go undefeated... 
"Until we play Notre Dame," he adds skepti­
cally. 
One has to be a resident of Pennsylvania to · realiz t e the emotional significance oftomor­
row's battle between Notre Dame and 14th­
ranked Penn State at Beaver Stadium. In this 
part ofthe country, acollection ofsmall towns 
in a 150-mile radius ofthe university, folks 
thrive on their local high school's football 
game on Friday nights, and then gather around 
the radio on Saturday afternoons to cheer on 
Penn State. 
Those Pennsylvanians who, God forbid, 
don't like Penn State prefer to root for Notre 
Dame. Don't worry -nobody likes Pitt. 
So that is why, despite both teams' dis­appointing records, tomorrow's battle with the Irish is considered to be, without a doubt, the Nittany Uons' biggest game ofthe season. The Beaver Stadium attendance record, 85,133, set last week against Alabama, should fall once again. 
Rain is in the forecast for this afternoon, but 
it should turn much colder with a possibility 
ofsnow flurries by game time, with tem­
peratures in the 30's. 
The showdown is a tale of two teams going in vastly different directions. Coach Gerry Faust's Irish ( S-4) have won three in a row in impressive fashion, having outscored the op-
Key matchup 
Coaches handle frustration, more 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Associate Sports Editor 
Frustration. 
Every college football coach can tell you all about it. Bear Bryant gets frustrated when Alabama can't get by Southern Mississippi. Dennis Green gets frustrated when Northwes­tern can't get by tht· stadium security guards. 
Tomorrow, Joe Paterno and Gerry Faust 
will stand across the t1eld from one another at 
Beaver Stadium. They will coach teams that 
must win to salvage what could have been 
great sea.~ons. 
For one of them, the frustration will con­
tinue. 
They are remarkably similar, in many ways. 
Forea,:h, academics is the most important fac­
tor in the careers of his players. 
"People who say winning or losing is all there is to college football are dead wrong," says Paterno. "The most important thing for these players is the education they receive while they are at Penn State. 
"We feel that there is more to life, and espe­cially to college life, than football," says the 16-year head coach. "We never practice on Friday. We rarely practice on Monday. These guys have other things to do, and we can't make unreasonable demands of them. 
"The primary reason for these men being in college is to get that education. It includes learning in the classroom and out of it. We try 
t.o give our players time to get a well-rounded ed•Jcation." 
f-aust ofcourse, is much the same. He has an impressive athlete-graduation ratio to live up to now that he is the head coach. 
"The greatest thing about Notre Dame is the education you can get here," he says. "The opportunities that students have here are fan­tastic, and I want my players to take full ad­vantage ofthem. You only go through college once, and you should enjoy it." 
Besides their emphasis on the academic side ofcollege football players, Faust and Paterno have other striking similarities. This year, more than most coaches, they have shared that which bonds college coaches to­gether. 
Frustration. 
Paterno had the Nittany 
Lions at the top of the polls early this season. 
But, as has been the case throughout recent history, Penn State was unable to win the big game -this time to Miami. 
"We're going through a tough period right now," he says. "Slowly but surely, we're start­ing to improve our schedule, and we're feeling it. We opened a new era here by playing Alabama." 
There are those t who say that Paterno's big­gest frustration is in never having won a na­tional championship. He has been close a number oftimes, but "the big one" has always eluded him. A number offactors, including a habitually weak schedule, have contributed to that sad fact. And it is sad -for it can be said that joe Paterno is one ofthe truly great coaches in football today. 
Things may be changing, however. Paterno, who doubles as Penn State's athletic director Is building a tougher schedule for the Lions. ' The realization that It's gotten tougher to win a national championship by playing Temple 
and Cincinnati has a lot to do with that deci­
sion. 
"We opened a new era ofPenn State foot­ball with the game against Alabama," he says. "And the Notre Dames and Texases are com­ing up. We have to learn how to beat them. That's the next step for us. 
"There's no sense in playing teams like that if you are not going to beat them." 
Frustration. 
"Sure, it's frustrating," said Faust after the Irish fell from number one by losing four ofits next five games. "I think it's probably been the most difficult part of my life. God must be tes­ting me." 
The Gerry Faust story is well-known. Irish fans everywhere have shared in a little of the exasperation the coach and his players have been suffering through all year. But things are starting to roll again. 
"We're looking better all the time," Faust says. "But it was a long, hard road." 
It will be the classic match-up. The es­tablished coach, respected by his peers, a veteran ofevery conceivable type ofbattle in the college football war, matches wits with the young upstart who rose quickly through the ranks, and continues to impress his col­leagues. 
See MATCHUP, page 9 
On the other hand, Penn State is hurting. 
"We've got a tremendous job ahead ofus this 
week," says Head Coach joe Paterno, in his 
16th season at the helm. "We're not a very 
good football team right t t now. We're not 
playing well and we are playing a team that is 
in a groove right now." 
Paterno isn't trying to deceive Irish fans, 
either. After winning its first six games 'Yith 
ease and ascending to the top of the polls, 
Penn State has dropped two of its last three 
contests -a 1 7 -14loss at Miami (Fla.) on Oc­
tober 31 and last week's anemic 31-16 defeat 
at the hands ofAlabama, surrounding an uni­
mpressive 22-15 win at North Carolina State. 
Part ofthe Lions' problems oflate has been . 
an injury to star tailback Curt Warner, who 
needs just 72 yards rushing to become only 
the fifth Penn State running back to gain 1,000 
yards in a season and should break Lydell 
Mitchell's career rushing record before his 
college career is over. 
Warner, a junior from Wyoming, W.Va., pulled a hamstring In mid-season and missed all or parts ofthree games, but returned last week to tally 69 yards against the Crimson Tide. 
Warner has a pair of 200-yard efforts this 
year, having rushed for a school-record 256 
yards against Syracuse and 238 against 
Nebraska. He was a legitimate Heisman 
Trophy candidate before his injury. Sopho­
more jon Williams has picked up 472 yards as 
Warner's understudy. 
Penn State has also suffered a breakdown in 
its passing game. After passing for a S<:hool­
record 358 yards in the Miami loss, sopho­
more quarterback Todd Blackledge has 
slumped badly. Last Saturday, the North Can­
ton, Ohio, native completed just 8 of 28 at­
tempts for only 94 yards with three 
interceptions. Blackledge has thrown ten 
touchdown passes this season, but has also 
been intercepted 12 times. 
Even the kicking game is in dire straits for the Nittany Uons. Punter Ralph Giacomarro has been getting a lot of practice oflate, and has responded with a 44. 7-yard average. But placekicker Brian Franco, a hero early in the season, is having his diftkulties. After single­handedly lifting Penn State over Nebraska with five field goals in the Lions' 30-24 victory in September, Franco has slumped, hitting his nadir by missing four makeable field goal at­tempts in the Miami game. 
The normally stalwart Lion defense was 
shredded for 469 total yards last week by 
'Barna after yielding over 300 yards each of 
the previous two weeks. Mark Robinson, a 
sophomore free safety, leads the defense with 
57 tackles and junior defensive end Walker 
Lee Ashley has six quarterback sacks and has 
forced two fumbles. Defensive back Roger Jackson, a junior, paces PSU with four inter­
ceptions. 
Penn State always been blessed with fine linebackers, and this year is no exception. Seniors Chet Parlavecchlo, Matt Bradley and Ed Pryts rank second, third and fourth respectively in tackles. 
But the defense, much like the rest ofthe team, has not been on top ofits game lately. "We've got to get some things straightened out," admits Paterno. "We have a lot ofhard work ahead ofus to correct the things that are hurting this team. 
"Those corrections are too numerous to even get into. We have many areas that need work right now." · 
Sound familiar? Four weeks ago, Gerry Faust was making the same remorseful comments 
See PREGAME, page 8 
Friday, November 20, 1981 pag~
The Irish Extra -ND vs. Penn State 

john Sweeney (33) now bas to share the fullback duties be once bandied alone, but 
Linemen think trench war could be key to the_ game 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
sports Writer 
"It will be a trench war," says Notre Dame Defensive line Coach Bill Meyers. 
"There will be a lot ofgive and take," says Dick Anderson, offensive line coach at Penn State. 
Coaches and players from both teams agree that there.will be an intense battle when the highly respected offensive line ofthe Nittany lions faces the rapidly improving Irish defensive line of Bob Clasby, Tim Marshall, and company. 
The Penn State line, led by 6-2, 263-pound guard Sean Farrell, a consensus all-American last year as a junior and an Outland Trophy candidate this year, was believed to be one of the best in the.country at the beginningofthe season. 
"They don't have many weaknesses," ob­serves Irish nose tackle Bob Clasby. "They are strong and big and really come offthe ball." 
The other tackle, Tim Marshall, agrees. "They have good strength and quickness and are very well-balanced." 
Anderson is more specific. "Our guards are our strong point. They both are excellent and can run. We have gotten pretty good play from center for most ofthe year. Our tackles also play pretty well despite a lack ofex­perience." 
He is not sure, however, just how good his line; guards Farrell and Mike Munchak, a 6-2, 257-pound junior, centerJim Romano, a 6-3, 241-pound senior, and tackles Pete Speros, a 6-2, 248-pound junior and Bill Contz,a 6-5, 243-pound junior; really is. "We started out well but haven't done well in the last two games. we looked very bad against Alabama. It's a good line, just how good is hard to tell right now. We'll see in the Notre Dame and Pitt games. We just need to get over our bumps and bruises." 
Farrell, one ofthe team captains, is the 
mainstay ofthe line. "Physically," explains An­
derson, "he has more than one thing going for 
him. He is a strong kid, has good size, and runs 
well. He is smart and doesn't make many 
mistakes. He is also a strong leader who adds 
maturity to the team." 
Nittany lion Head CoachJoe Paterno is 
even more generous in his praise ofFarrell. 
"Farrell is as good a lineman as we have had at 
Penn State since I have been coaching here." 
The Irish are definitely ready to fight back, 
though. "It will be a very physical contest," 
predicts Meyers. We play a ph}'sical, hard­
nosed game and try to dominate the line of 
scrimmage." 
Anderson adds,"Notre Dame has a big front 
which allows the linebackers to be active. The 
nose tackle is a real big, strong guy." 
The player to whom Anderson is referring is 
6-5, 260-pound Bob Clasby. The junior from 
Milton, Mass., now has 45 tackles, including 
five for losses, and two pass blocks, while usually lining up right over the ball. "Clasby is an intense, extremely physical player," says Meyers. 
Clasby does not disagree with his coach's description. "I try to stuffthe man across from me into the backfield and keep him offofthe linebackers. I am not too quick but I use my strength and size as an advantage." 
He feels that he is now playing his bestfoot­ball ofthe year. "In the Purdue game, I was playing my best football ofthe year. Then I was injured. The injury really hampered me. I started playing well again in the Southern Cal game and I've been playing better ever since then." 
He believes that his line can get the best of 
the Nittany lions. "We watched the Alabama 
game last week and saw how the Alabama 
defensive line really attacked their line and 
was successful. That's the way we play, too. 
"I am really looking forward to the game. 
My family is going to be there. I'm really going 
to go to town. I was heavily recruited by the 
eastern teams, including Penn State. I know 

some ofthe guys on their line. Sean Farrell was 
my host when I visited the school." 
Clasby will not be the only one responsible 
for plugging up the middle. Tim Marshall is 
also looking forward to a hard game. 
The 6-4, 250-pound sophomore has 
amassed 33 tackles this year, with nine of his 
tackles coming in the opponents' backfield. 
Meyers describes Marshall as "very quick. 
He has a good sense for the game and for the 
football. He has improved every game." 
Marshall, himself, is pleased with his im­
provement. "It bothered me when Istarted off 
slowly, but I am coming around. My biggest 
See LINEMEN, page 9 
• • • Pregame 
continuedfrom page 7 
about his struggling Irish, and he can sym­pathize with his coaching counterpart. "Penn State's gone through losses like we did at the beginning of the year," comments the first­year coach. "I really feel that, despite their two losses, they're one ofthe top six to eight teams in the country." 
On the contrary, Notre Dame seems to have found the right combinations after instituting position changes four weeks ago. Greg Bell (wingback), Tony HunteJ: (tight end) and Joe Howard (split end) all have excelled in their new roles. Quarterback Blair Kiel has fully recovered from the flu bug, and should be at full strength. 
And, for the first time in a while, the Irish have no major injury problems to speakof.Jon 
Three-of-a-kind means full 
house for Irish backfield 
• 
ByJOHN LEWANDOWSKI 
Sports Writer 
It is quite apparent that parity has been reached in college football. However, not on­ly have the NCAA limitations on scholarships created a balance on the collegiate level but it has caused the competition for individual playing time to intensify. 
Notre Dame boasts one ofthe most talented trios offullbacks in the nation. John Sweeney, Larry Moriarty and Mark Brooks have all made significant contributions while being shuffled in and out ofthe lineup. 
No one is more pleased to be associated with the threesome than Irish running back coach Greg Blache. "It is a luxury to have a crop oftalented fullbacks," explains Blache. "We're blessed with three fine athletes, but more importantly fine people. They're very unselfish and play with a total team attitude." 
Twenty-year-old juniorJohn Sweeney 
anchors the contingent. The Deerfield, Ill., 
native is the team's third leading rusher with 
146 yards. Sweeney has also hauledin 6 passes 
for 96 yards. 
Athree-year starter, Sweeney knows his 
role at Notre Dame. "I'm not the star who's 
going to score some points or rush for 100 
yards," frankly explains Sweeney. "I firmly 
believe in a team effort. I go out there and do 
my best and just try to contribute to a vic­
tory." 
The responsibilites ofthe Irish fullbacks are 
numerous but Sweeney enjoys being more in­
volved. "I do a lot ofcommunicating with the 
wingback and halfback. I help solidify the 
entire backfield by recognizing the defenses. 
This is where my experience fits in." 
Sweeney, who lost his starting position to 
Moriarty prior to the season opener with LSU, 
will be the first to admit that he has benefited 
from the competition for the position. 
"Competition makes me play better. My two 
running mates are fine athletes, who have 
proved themselves. I just enjoy helping them 
out." 
Sweeney certainly has impressed Coach 
Blache with his style ofplay. "Honestly, John 
is the least talented out ofthe bunch as far as 
natural ability," says Blache. "But he's a war­
horse. He plays with great intensity and has 
experience you can't buy." The explosive 
and bruising Larry Moriarty backstops 
Sweeney. The junior from Santa Barbara, 
Calif., has chalked up 87 markers on 19 carries 
including a touchdown. Moriarty, a specialty 
team standout, has also notched two touch­down receptions in just three catches. Moriarty knows all about the struggle for 
·playing time. "Notre Dame, as well as the other major powers, always has great com­petition at the different positions," explains the 23-year-old communications major. "I'm a little unhappy about not seeing more action. I still feel that I haven't shown but one-fourth of my talent." 
The head-to-head confrontations end on the field, however. "Our relationship is great, it really is," says Moriarty. "We leave our frustrations on the football field and that's the way it should be. We're battling out there to impress the coaches not each other." 
And indeed, Moriarty has impressed Blache. "Larry is the most talented fullback," says the former assistant to Ara Parseghian. "He's awesomely strong and has great speed He's also a fine pass-catcher with hands like a baseball mit." 
Freshman Mark Brooks, who haslogged the most playing minutes behind Sweeney, came to Notre Dame as one ofthe most decorated high school graduates in the country. The for­mer Cincinnati Moeller standout has picked up 124 yards at 5.6 yards per pop. 
For Brooks, being in contention at the posi­tion has been a beneficial learning ex­perience. "Sweeney and Moriarty are both good teachers," explains the soft-spoken freshman. "The entire adjustment to college life has been a learning experience. 
"I really didn't feel any extra pressure com­ing out ofhigh school," says Brooks. "I'm just getting to know the system and feel right at home." 
Although just a freshman, Brooks recognizes his part in the backfield. "At this particular point, I simply want to help out when I'm called upon. It's taken awhile for me to adjust to the different defensive looks and the competition at fullback has kept me on my toes." 
Blache, who's worked with some great backs at Notre Dame, says, "Brooks is going to be great. He's still a puppy but he's learning everyday. ·He's a blend ofboth Sweeney and Moriarty." 
What impresses Coach Blache most about the fullbacks is the manner in which they have shown a total team attitude. "I really can't do much to keep the guys happy but they each have a special maturity about them. I truly believe that being a part ofNotre Dame bree~ camaraderie. That's the main reason why I'm in coaching." 
Irish fullbacks Sweeney, Brooks and Moriarty (I. tor.) 
Autry and Rick Naylor are questionable, but should be able to play. So, it seems that Notre ~ 
Dame will have all the momentum going for it 
tomorrow. "I think our momentum is 
growing," says Faust. "They have a lot more 
confidence in themselves and appear to be 
enjoying football again. 
"Tomorrow, we'll see how much momen­
tum we've gained since the USC game." 
But, in no way is Faust taking Penn State lightly. "They're one ofthe finest teams in the country," he says. "They are very experienced on offense and defense. Their linebackers and secondary are very tenacious and they'll be a real challenge. 
"PSU gives any defense a lot to think about, also, for two reasons: first, they've got two great runners in Warner and Williams, and they have great receivers and a strongquarter­
back. They'll create a lot ofproblems for us." 
If~~ir proble_!!IS<?n t~e field aren't enough, 
the lions have had one additional obstacle to 
overcome this week. "Our main problem this 
week has been final exams," Paterno told The CJ_bserver last night. "We've had trouble get­tmg enough players to practice with and there hasn't been much enthusiasm around the campus this week. But by Saturday, we'll be 
ready." IRISH ITEMS: The Irish arrived here last night and stayed in nearby Harrisburg, the state capital, which is about an hour or so from the campus ...The game is also being shown on a delayed basis by ESPN .. .The last time the two teams met in the regular season was 1928, when the Irish beat the lions, 9-0, in Philadelphia ...Their last meeting overall was the 1976 Gator Bowl, which Notre Dame captured, 20-9 . 

The Irish Extra -NO vs. Penn State Friday, November 20, 1981 -page 9 

Warner runningfor record books at Penn State 
By TOM VEDUCCI 
Penn State Daily Collegian 
UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. -He was only 12 
years old, but he already had doubts about his 
football future. 
Curt Warner came out for Raymond Rose's 
seventh and eighth grade football team as a 
small and skinny pre-teen. He wanted to be a 
running back, but he couldn't beat out hisold· 
cr brother Robert for the starting position. 
Rose told him to work out as an end. 
"I didn't like beingan end," Warner remem· 
bcrs. "For no reasons in particular; I just didn't 
like it." 
Not only was the youth unhappy with his position, but he also was uninspired by the sport itself. "I didn't care too much for foot· ball. I wasn't crazy about going out there and getting my head beat in every day." 
Warner only could do his best and wait for his favorite sports -basketball and baseball -to come around. 
"My senior year I decided to play all three," Warner says. "I'd see which one I did best and continue with that." 
Luckily for Joe Paterno and Penn State, War· ncr had a great senior year on the football field. Measured statistically, it was more than 2,500 yards worth ofgreatness. 
And the greatness keeps adding up. 
Sometime next season, Curt Warner -once a 
skinny end not good enough to play running 
back -probably will become the career rus· 
hing leader at the Pennsylvania State Univer· 
sity. That's ahead ofFranco Harris. Ahead of 
Lenny Moore. Ahead of)ohn Capalletti. And 
ultimately, ahead oflydell Mitchell. 
Pinesvt/le is playing Cbapmansville in a West Virginia state playoffgame. It is the third quarter and Pineville already basput the game out ofreach. Pineville halfback Curt Warner carries the ball up to the one· yard line to set up yet another score. Coach Raymond Rose takes Warner out and sends on a sophomore to score the touchdown. 
Rose wasn't aware ofit, but Warner coUld have broken the state single-game scoring mark. Instead, Curt will have to be content withfive touchdowns, three two-point con­versions, and more than 400yards rushing. 
Warner was a legend in high school. His ac· 
heivcments will live forever, especially in the 
mind of Rose, now retired from coaching. 
Rose had the pleasure ofcoaching Warner in the seventh and eighth grades, and as a junior and senior in high school. He recalls the time Warner carried the ball just seven times in one high school game, yet scored four times. He remembers the playoffgame in which his team had the ball on fourth-and-goal at the 12, and Warner "got hit about six times" and scored. 
Curt grew up under modest conditions in southern West Virginia. You will find his address listed as R.D. I, Wyoming, W. Va., but you'd never find his home ifyou were looking for a town. His house was one ofa few scat· tered about the coal-mining region that answered to the name Wyoming. 
To get to his high school, you have to drive more than two hours to cover the last 30 miles after pulling off the nearest interstate. The roads go up, down and around many of the mountains of the Allegheny_!ange. ______ 
But somehow, college recruiters found Curt Warner. 
It is basketball season, and Warner and Pineville are hosting arch rival Mullins in one ofthe biggest games ofthe season. Pineville'sgym seatsjust900, butamong the crowd this night, are Pitt's jackie Sherrill, 
• • • Linemen 
continuedfrom page 8 
problem this year was adjusting to the new 
coaches. It took a while to get used to the new 
ways of motivating the players. Now I t~~nk 
that I have proved myself over last year. 
How does it feel to face such a respected 
line? "No one is invincible," says Marshall. 
"I'm not intimidated and neither are the other 
guys, !like the challenge. It helps me use my 
skills bc:ttc:r." 
Meyers and Anderson agree that th~ game 
will be: a tough one and the team that IS most 
consistent and docs not make mistakes will 
win. "We'll be ready!" announces Tim Marshall. 
Penn State's joe Paterno and an assistant to Nebraska's Tom Osborne. After the game all tbree take their turns talking with Warner. Paterno gets the last and longest word in. Paterno, who neversaw the kidplayfootball, nevertheless offers him a scholarship. 
Warner does not remember exactly how 
many schools recruited him. He made only 
three trips-to Penn State, West Virginia and 
Pittsburgh -and missed out on a trip to 
Notre Dame because ofa snow storm. 
He felt much pressure to stay in town and 
work in Morgantown, but he fought that 
pressure and chose Penn ~tate. 
"I caught a lot offlack for not going to West 
Virginia," he says. "I just didn't like their 
program. At Penn State I liked the guys on the 
team who 11\let. I got along with Coach 
Paterno really well. I just liked the big time at· 
mosphere." 
It is opening day, I979, andPenn State is playing host to Rutgers. Number 25 for the Lions bas the crowd scurrying through their programs to find out who thispbenom is. He is Curt Warner. He bas burst on to the local and national collegefootball scene with 280 all-purpose yards. He is the Associated Press Back ofthe Week. 
"I didn't expect anything like that at all," Warner says. "I expected to play only a little on kickoffreturns. In fact, I remember telling my pop the night before the game I probably wouldn't play that much." . 
After the game and for the next week War· ncr was besieged by the media. They were impre!ised not only by his performance, but also by the fact that he was a freshman -a football type usually kept under lock and key by Paterno. 
In interviews he was quiet; in fact, he was barely audible. His sentences were short and plain. But inside, Warner was caught up in a whirlwind ofpublicity. 
He kept his feelings inside himself 
"I let it go too far," Warner recalls. "I started listening to the quotes. I listened too much. Your head swells up ifyou let it get too far.• 
"I've learned from that. I can call it a mistake for me. I've learned to be humble within myself." 
What really humbled Warner was a hamstr· ing injury. He missed three games and carried a maximum of 1 5 times in a game for the remainder of the season. 
"It was very frustrating," Warner says. "I learned football is not the only thing in life. There are other things I must do, because at any time in life it can be over for you." 
Warner carried 84 times for 391 yards that year, and Penn State struggled through an 8-4 season. 
"My freshman year was very dissappoint· ing," he says. "There was not much team uni· ty." 
continuedfrom page 7 
"It will be a thrill to coach against him," says Paterno. "I've met Gerry a number oftimes,. and have been very impressed. He is going to be a great footbal coach." 

joe Paterno The last timePenn State andNotre Dame met was the 1976 Gator Bowl, and Ross 
It is October 17, 198I. Warner bas a day against Syracuse that no otherPenn State running back ever bas bad again~! anyone. He shreds the Syracuse defense for 256yards on 26 carries. 
Warner has changed since his debut against Rutgers in 1979. Paterno says he has become a more patient runner, and the tailback agrees. 
"My freshman year I'd just go out to break every play," he says. "Now I've learned a lot as far as knowing where to go; knowing what might go and what can't go." 
Indeed, Warner never was so smart a run· ncr. He knows how to get the most out ofhis blocking -a smart thing to do considering the offensive line includes one 1980 all· American (Sean Farrell) and two potential all· Americans (Mike Munchak and Jim Romano). 
Warner, who is reluctant to talk about himself, jumps at the chance to talk abot the line. Ask him how good his performance was, and he'll tell you how good the line was. When you finally get him to talk about his running, he makes it sound oh-so-easy. 
"I'm a very emotional person. Now I keep it all to myself. IfI don't carry the ball, it's not going to hamper anyone else. I keep a low profile. I don't want to lose my poise." 
He keeps his emotions inside himself. 
Since his record-setting performance at Syracuse, Warner has run into hard times. Ac· hilles had his heel. Warner has his hamstring. He pulled a hamstring in practice the follow· ing week, and sat out the West Virgina game. 
Warner came back October 31 against Miami, 
That's high praise coming from a man as universally admired as Paterno, a fact Faust readily admires. 
"Joe Paterno isone ofthe great coachesand gentlemen in the profession," the rookie coach says. "It will be an honor to coach across the field from the guy." 
Amenities aside, the two men will be strug· gling to save face tomorrow. Faust wants desperately to win his last two games and finish 7-4. Paterno is looking to take his team to the Fiesta Bowl in a never-ending search for nation-wide respectability. 
"We think we've maae great strides in the last four weeks, and now we have an excellent opportunity to find out how good a team we really are," Faust says. 
Paterno obviously sees this weekend as key to the Lions' fortunes. "It's hard to believe," he admits, "but we were looking ahead last week against Alabama. Final exams were held this week, and Notre Dame is coming to town. 
"We've got to get some things straightened out. We have many areas that need work right now. We've got a tremendous job ahead of us this week." 
When all is said and done, only one man will have come through the encounter relatively unscathed. It will be but a temporary reprieve, 
Browner harassed Chuck Fustna ina 20·9 win for the Irish. 
but gained just 21 yards on 13 carries before leaving with another pulled muscle. 
Again he took a week off -watching the Lions beat N.C. State -and when he came back last week against Alabama, he was limited to 69 yards on 18 carries. That raised his season totals to 928 yards on 146 carries as he tries to become only the fifth Penn Stater to run for l ,000 yards in a season. 
It's ironic the very tools of Warner's trade -his delicate leg muscles -held him back from joining the list of Heisman Trophey canidates this year. But lfhe's not the best col· lege football player in the country this year, maybe he will be next year. 
His is a long and improbable success story. Warner was a great athlete in a backward en· vironment. He was mined out ofthat environ­ment, and became extremely valuable, much • like the coal that is extracted from the very mountains that surround his home. 
And this is the sort ofsuccess story from which fairy tales are made. The skinny seventh grade end, who becomes a high school legend, who becomes a college star who ... wins the Heisman Trophy? 
"I've thought about that for a long time," Warner says. "I guess it's one ofthose childhood dreams we all have. One of these days I'll get a shot at it. How close I'll come, I don't know." 
Ifhe does reach that pinacle, he probably won't be able to keep his feelings Inside him· self. 
• • • Matchup 
however. There is an opponent that can be thwarted, but not defeated; an opponent that comes back to haunt the best coaches -and especially the not-so-great. 
Frustration. 

Gerry Faust 

r ~ 

The Irish Extra -ND vs. Penn State Friday, November 20, 1981 -page 10 

Miami (Fla.) over N.C. STATE by 7  Hurricanes  Hurricanes  Hurricanes  Hurricanes  Hurricanes  Hurricanes  Hurricanes  Hurricanes  
Purdue over INDIANA by 1 0  Boilers  Boilers  Boilers  Boilers  Boilers  Boilers  Boilers  Boilers  
MINNESOTA over Wisconsin by 2  Badgers  Badgers  Gophers  Badgers  Badgers  Gophers  Badgers  Gophers  
Illinois over NORTHWESTERN by 31  lllini  lllini  lllini  Cats  lllini  lllini  lllini  Wildcats  
IOWA over Michigan Stete by 7  Spartans  Hawks  Hawke yes  Hawks  Hawks  Hawks  Hawks  Hawks  
IOWA STATE over Oklahoma Stete by 5  Cyclones  Cyclones  Cyclones  Cowboys  Cyclones  Cyclones  Cyclones  Cyclones  
Missouri over KANSAS by 6  Tigers  Tigers  Jayhawks  Tigers  Tigers  Tigers  Tigers  Tigers  
Nebraska over OKLAHOMA by 5  Huskers  Sooners  Huskers  Sooners  Huskers  Sooners  Huskers  Sooners  
SOUTHERN CAL over UCLA by 3  Trojans  Trojans  Trojans  Trojans  Trojans  Bruins  Trojans  TroJans  
WASHINGTON over Washington Stete by 1  Huskies  Cougars  Huskies  Husk1es  Huskies  Cougars  Cougars  Husk1es  
Clemson over SOUTH CAROUNA by 8  Tigers  Tigers  Gamecocks  Gamecocks  Tigers  Gamecocks  Tigers  Gamecocks  
TEXAS over Baylor by 13  Horns  Horns  Horns  Horns  Horns  Horns  Horns  Horns  
OREGON over Oregon Stete by 16  Beavers  Beavers  Ducks  Beavers  Ducks  Beavers  Ducks  Beavers  
SMU over Arkansss by 2  Hogs  Mustangs  Mustangs  Hogs·  Mustangs  Mustangs  Mustangs  Mustangs  
PENN STATE over Notre Dame by 3  Irish  Irish  Irish _  Irish  Irish  Irish  Irish  L1ons  


"1
. ~ 
The Observer Fnday, November 20, 1981-page 11 

c Anheuser-Busch.lnc St Lours. Mo 
,_ 
Sports Brie./§ 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
The SMC TurkeyTrotis scheduled for Monday at 4 
p.m. The three-mile run is open to everyone in the Saint Mary's com­munity. First, second and third place prizes will be presented in each of these three categories: students, male staff/faculty and female staff/faculty. Interested runners must register by bringing the $1 entry fee to the Angela Athletic Facility before Friday. For more in­formation, contact Mr. Dillon at 4182 (SMC).-The Observer 
Another trip to Michigan is next on the agenda for the Notre Dame wrestling team. Coach Brother joe Bruno's wrestlers will participate in the Michigan Invitational Tournament on Saturday. Last week five team members placed at the Michigan State Tournament in East Lansing. The trip to Ann Arbor is the third ofsix straight meets on the road before the home opener on Decem­ber 9. -The Observer 
Los Angeles Laker Coach Paul Westhead, who was blasted Wednesday night by star Earvin "Magic" Johnson, was fired yesterday by team owner Dr. Jerry Buss. Buss named former coach and star player jerry West to head the offense for the Lakers, with a co-coach, Pat Riley, handling the defense in a unique NBA situation. Buss said that the 22-year-old Johnson had nothing to do with his decision. -AP 
Notre Dame's Rowing Club will hold a man­
datory practice for the men's varsity tomorrow at I 0 a.m. in the ACC 
Fieldhouse. Novices are welcome. -The Observer 
Friday, November 20, 1981 -page 12 

Central Division Cantral Milwaukee 7 3 .700 Minnesota 7 4 0 .636 250 238 Detroit 6 4 600 Detroit 5 6 0 .455 26B 247 Atlanta 5 4 .556 1.5 Green Bay 5 6 0 .455 217 249 Indiana 5 6 .455 2.5 Tampa Bay 5 6 0 .455 1BO 1B7 
The Top Twenty college basketball teams in The. 
Cleveland 4 6 .400 3 Chicago 3 8 0 .273 173 248 Associated Press pre-season poll, wrth first-place 
Chicago 4 7 .364 3.5 Weal votes in parentheses, last season's records and total San Francisco B 3 0 .727 237 1B3 points. Points based on 20-19-1B-17 etc. Notre Dame Weatern Conference Atlanta 5 6 0 .455 297 223 oponents are italicized. 
Mldweat Dlvlalon Los Angeles 5 6 0 .455 237 236 W L Pet. GB New Orleans 4 7 0 .364 139 237 1. North Carolina (25) 29-B 1,13B 
San Antonio 9 1 .900 
2. UCLA(20) 20-7 1,119 
Utah 5 4 .556 3.5 
3. Kentucky (B) 22-6 1,041 
Houston 5 6 .455 4.5 
4. Loutsville (4) 21-9 1,017 
Denver 4 5 .444 4.5 
5. Georgetown (2) 20-12 B61 AMERICAN CONFERENCE
Kansas City 3 7 .300 6 
6. Wichita State 26·7 794 Eut
Dallas 9 .100 B 
7. Virginia 29·4 739 W L T Pet. -PF PA 
Pacific Division 
222
8. DePaul 27-2 701 Miami 7 3 .6B2 260
Portland 7 3 700 
N.Y. Jets 6 4 1 .591 249 2299. Iowa 21·7 700 
Los Angeles 7 4 .636 5 
10. 
Minnesota 19·11 513 · Buffalo 6 5 0 .545 217 192

Golden State 5 4 .556 1.5 

11. 
Tulsa 26·7 4B2 New England 2 9 0 .1B2 240 257

Phoemx 5 5 .500 2 

12. 
Indiana (1) 26-7 405 Bani more 1 10 0 .091 1B5 377


SeaHie 3 5 .375 3 
C.ntral
13. Wake Forest 22·7 3B2 
San Diego 2 6 .250 4 
14. 
Alabama-Birm. 23-9 2B5 Cincinnati B 3 0 .727 292 203

Late game not included 

15. 
Missouri 22-10 273 Pittsburgh 6 5 0 .545 243 219


Yesterday's Results 
16. 
Georgia 19·12 233 Cleveland 5 6 0 .455 19B 229

Atlanta B9, New York 84 

17. 
LouisianaState 31·5 204 Houston 5 6 0 .455 1B6 236


Detrotl 122, Washtngton 97 
1B. Arkansas (1) 24·B 196 Weal
lndtana 102, Kansas City 99 
19. 
Notre Dame 23-6 148 Denver 8 3 0 .727 220 156

Golden State at Seattle, n 

20. 
Alabama 1B·11 140 Kansas City 7 4 0 .636 263 211


Today's Games 
Other receiving votes (in alphebetical order) were San Diego 6 5 0 .545 315 291
Mtlwaukee at Boston 
Arizona State, Boston College. Bradley. Brtgham Oakland 5 6 0 .455 174 184 
Philadelphia at Cleveland 
Young, Chicago·Loyola. Cincinnati, Clemson. Con· Seattle 4 7 0 .364 196 249
Houston at Washingtonnecticut, Florida, Florida State, Fresno State, Hous· Utah at Chicagoton, Idaho, Illinois, lona, Kansas, Kansas State, Seattle at Dallas Marquette, Maryland, Michigan State, Nevada-Las San Antonio at Los Angeles 
Vegas, Old Dominion, Oregon State, Purdue, St. Sunday'• Gamea
San Diego at Denver 
John's (N.Y.), St. Joseph's (Pa.), San Diego State, Denver at Cincinnati 
New Jersey at Portland 
South Alabama, South Carolina. Southern Cal, South Detroit at Chicago Florida, Syracuse. Tennessee, Texas.. Texas-EI 
Green Bay at Tampa Bay Paso, Utah, Villanova, Virginia Commonweanh. West Miami at New York Jets Virginia, Wyoming. New England at Buffalo 
New Orleans at Houston NBA NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGLIE New York Giants at Philadelphia Eaatern Conference NATIONAL CONFERENCE Pittsburgh at Cleveland Atlantic Dlvlalon Eaet St. Louis at Bani more W L Pet. GB W L T Pet. PF PA San Diego at Oakland Philadelphia 9 1 900 Philadelphia 9 2 0 .B1B 2B7 152 San Francisco at Los Angeles Boston 
9 2 .81B .5 Dallas B 3 0 .727 265 221 Seattle at Kansas City Washington 3 6 .333 5.5 Washington 5 6 0 .455 240 220 Washington at Dallas New York 
3 7 .300 6 N.Y. Giants 5 6 0 .455 222 203 Monday'a Gam• New Jersey 2 8 .200 7 St. Louis 4 7 0 .364 213 303 Minnesota at Atlanta 
,------------------------------------------------------------~--------~==~~------­
The Observer will accept clas!tieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
either in person or through the mail. 
Classifieds 
NEED RIDE TO PENN STATE Need tix for Penn State. Call Stan, 3006 or ATIENTION: Monica... Have a blast this DESPERATELY FOR GAME. CALL 300B. Need two (2) attractive females lor con· weekend...keep your sweaters on (all of STEVE B762 OR B761 fidential, professional critique. Reqiure them)...beware of dark corners ... and 
NOTICES ....1 .__I_FO_R_R_EN_T_.......J 
semi-nude and nude posing; no publica­PDA. We'll be waiting for the sleazy PITISBURGH BUS TICKET FOR SALE tion. Contact R.L. Studios at 2B3-6842 for details when you get back. 
USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED . 
AT DISCOUNT RATE! DON'T SIGN UP interview. 
---various supporting fans TILL YOU CALL ME FIRST! LEANNE 
I PERSONALS
SAT.. SUN. 9·7. CASPERSON, 1303 UGLY DUCKLING RENT A CAR. FROM 
$7.95 A DAY & WEEKEND SPECIALS 10 HELL NOI WE WON'T GOI Pam---If not Vodka, how about Limon? 
BUCHANAN RD., NILES. 
X7076 
AVAILABLE. CALL 259·8459. But Do Need ride to St. Louis and back forT-day.
USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought. The JUNIOR PARTY .cheduled for 4BTonight anachronism: noun. a thing or person that sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. Saturday night at 9 In the LEWIS
Will share expenses and driving. Call Lou 
ROOMATE WANTED: is out of place with respect to time. Ex­at 1428. Thank you. 
Tues-Sunday, 12-6.1027E. Wayne(One PARTY ROOM haa been CANCELLED. 
PRIVACY,crawling distance from corbys, Sean Regan ... 1 00 percenl Good Luck ample: A flush toilet is an anachronism in NOTRE DAME APTS. ON BUS ROUTE,5 this weekend against Ohio State! King Arthur's time. 
block south of Eddy-Jefferson intersec· So don't go. The place wlllbaamply. 
lion) The Management
NEED 1 OR 2 RIDES TO BOSTON FOR CAMPUS,KITCHEN,BAR.CABLE T.V. T -GIVING. SHARE USUAL AND MORE. LIEDERHOSEN-there will be an informal BLOCKS FROM 
10 MR. MOJO RISIN' with his LA. TYPING! Fast. accurate typing at
BE FIRST TO CALL 2B9·4429 LEAVE ANYTIME. CALL BILL,277-5307 meeting for anyone interested in helping Stepping out of Angellucct's for my coffee
WOMAN TONIGHT in 4B reasonable rates. Call Lynn Saylor, 233· protect the LIEDERHOSEN population beans-Checking out the movies and theHELP! My daughter is pregnant, my wife 3423. 
from the radical decentralists. For more magazines-Waitress she watches mehas V.D.. and my 19th birthday is the info call RED at 41·5333. crossing from the Saracco Bar-l'm getting 
27th. MUST get home for THANKSGIV­THE ZAHM COFFEEHOUSE IS OPEN 
a ptckup for my steel guitar. 
ING! Can leave anytime Wed. and will EVERY THURSDAY FOR YOUR EXIS. 
The word is LEDERHOSEN, not LIEDER· 
LOST/FOUNo j l.______w__A_N_T_Eo______, 
share expenses. CALL 1427 TENTIAL PLEASURE. OFFERING THE 
HOSEN!I!! signed, a touchy German Congratulations to the vacuous JQI YouFINEST IN LIVE ENTERTAINMENT, were great! The guys in 721. 
DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO EXIT 10 COFFEE, TEA, HOMEMADE DONUTS, Lost:back pack, tan and blue. Made by 
Need ride to Cleveland lor Thanksgtving. Cheryl.
OR 11 ON OHIO TURNPIKE, LEAVING FREE POPCORN AND PAT GALLAG­
Call John at B450. No, !here will be no reproducing tonight. Experienced typist .. reasonable Mrs.
WyEast, Inc. call Vince x 1238 HER. COME DOWN AND SEE IF OUR 
MONDAY AFTERNOON. CALL DENNY Sorry!!I Your loss ... Bedford 2BB-2107 Hours BAM to 5PM 
1184. PROFESSIONAL CONVER­LOST WOMENS CLASS RING ON 
Need ride to D.C. for Thanksgiving break. 
SATIONALISTS ARE PAID ENOUGH. WED. NOV. 5 AROUND THE ACC. TEN­
Stop. Room-mate needs ride to Mil­Join Tim Neely this Sunday at 7 pm on Just when you thought rt was safe to go
9-12 EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT, NIS COURTS AND SOCCER FIELD. 
waukee. Stop. If you're g01ng either way, WSND AM 64 for the Top 20 Time Tun­back into 4-w Keenan: The snakes rear
ZAHM BASEMENT. SILVER, NAVY BLUE STONE,CDC INI­
stop first and call us. Stop. Then caii115B. FOR SALE nel and relive your rock ·n· roll past... thetrheads! 
Stop. Now go. Stop. This week: The week ending November TIALS ENGRAVED INSIDE. PLEASE. IF Experienced typist will do lyping. Call 25, 1957, with songs by Elvis, Chuck Ber­To the GIRLS in LYONS· Get some restYOU'VE FOUND IT COULD YOU CALL For sale-73 red VW Beetle, excellent con· 287-5162.
NEED A RIDE TO NORTH JERSEY ry, The Everly Brothers. The Ames tonighl; you won't get the chance to
CYNDIE AT 277-6256. THANX. dillon. 1 owner 60,000 miles. new tires.
FRIDAY, NOV 20. RIGHT OFF ROUTE Brothers (yes), and 16 others. tomorrow night! The GUYS in 157 
call234·0620 after 5:30PM GIGANTIC PODS FROM OUTER LOST: KEYS ON GREEN AND WHITE C 
80 (DENVILLE). CAN LEAVE AT 2:00 
SPACE N-Pann State Tlx for food 2 SHAPED RING BETWEEN C2 LOT AND John Bardsley. 
P.M. CALL MIKE AT 1181. WILL SHARE HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY, RACHEL 
GOOD STONES TIX CHI MONDAY 2B7· tlx-Ga'a or Student Call Pod No. 1 
LIBRARY.APPROX. 8 KEYS. PLEASE THE USUAL. BLOUNT!!! It is by request of the prestdent that you
9342 x1947 CALL IRENE 272·4453. 
from a friend indeed mind what little manners you have at the
K~ij;i·M~~;·t;~~~-~~~;;-~i-rorAl.·~,cl~-;~ P.S. YOU'RE NOT GETTING OLDER, McCandless semi-formal. Thank you forHave 3 basketball ticket packages for SHOW YOUR LADY YOU CARE
OHIO, TOLEDO. B619. YOU'RE GETIING BEITER!II your cooperation. 
LOST: 1 NEW GREEN NOTRE DAME 
sale. Lower arena. Best ofoffer Sell in· BEFORE THE CHRISTMAS BREAK
Translated:
JACKET W/GOLD LETIERING ON McCandless Hall 
dividually or together. Call Mtke or Ted at WITH A MONTH OF FLOWERS. A BOU· 
HELP! NEED RIDE to TOLEDO Ohio I'm in love with a girl I'm talking about... 
BACK. SIZE MEDIUM. BOUGHT IN N.D. 11B1. QUET OF FLOWERS EVERY WE ONES· 
over T·giving break. CaiiB619. I'm in love ... but I sure picked a bad time to To No. 31: 
BOOKSTORE. LOST WEDNESDAY, DAY FOR 4 WEEKS.. DELIVEREDIII 
NOV. 11, BETWEEN 5 AND 6 P.M. IN be in love .. Good Luck against the Yugoslavs. Long 
WEDNESDAYS FLOWERS2B9-1211. SOUTH DINING HALL. MAY HAVE 
Need nde to D.C. or thereabouts for time, no see. Are we still friends? 
Thanksgiving. Will share usuals. Please Weill guess goirriy(:f& l'lo Though-the MMBEEN MISTAKEN FOR YOUR OWN. 
Hickory dickory dock, the mouse ran up PLEASE CHECK. CALL JULLE AT 3B57 
call Pete 3049 'Brar would have been better for m&'o But
TICKETS 
the clock. When the clock strikes seven. 
as I suppose, a rose is a ros&'o Or is the 
CHRISTIAN LIFE-COMMUNITIES-or· LOST: Canon Camera Saturday 11/7 in the real. SMK ganizatinal meeting, Monday. November Steve will be in heaven. unless we meet
I need a ride for two to Chicago on Thrus· key. Auxiliary'!'. However. the question is. 
day, Nov. 26 (Turkey day). Will share the •·•••••••••••"\'''''''' ••···•·••v••••••••• How long is day One'!'. And the answer
vicinty of cCE, Bridget's, King's Cellar. 23, Little Theater, at 7 pm. All are invited
Penn St. ticket wanted please call Donna 
usual If you can help me out, call Tom at for me, Is I'm still having Fulto Pluto? Is 
B771. at6771
Caii2B7·1705 if found please. Thanks. To Mike from Arizona, to attend. If unable tto come, caii7B70 for 
that what they say'!'. Or are we known as
·We love you. Welcome home. further information. 
. . . .--.-. . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . 
a pair of GA's'!'o CLASS RING. GOLD WITH INITIALS A Paruvlan Attack Bouldar 
LOST: 19B1 DESMET JESUIT HIGH -------·· Kim and Michele 
N-rtde to lndlanapolla for Turkay NEED PENN STATE-TIX NOW12 GA's or JMD. IF PLEASE Day student tickets CALL JOHN AT x1947 AFTER THE BASKETBALL
FOUND CONTACT Dearest Tommie, GAME Hath partaken of my shoulder. JOHNATB291. Paul-2277 ROCK WITH THE GROUP APEX Alas! Alas! 
I've been lusting after you. Your secret admirer My soul shall smolder ... 
ROLLING STONES TIX FOR SALE (FORMERLY NEXT) AT THE NAZZ FOUND: RING. initials MMW, at Senior 
Riders Wanted to Denver or west on I­CALL KEITH 3702 TONIGHT AT 10:30 
BO. leave Tues. afternoon. back Mon. nile. 
call3476 STONES TIX FOR SALE call Steve COMING SOON Bar, 13 Oct; call Betsy 277-60B2. PART OR FULL TIME WORK FROM Dearest Philosopher, 
HOME, PROCESSING MAIL OR I greatly enjoyed our conversation of FOUND: 1 blue & while HOHNER x1416 TYPING. EXPERIENCE UNNECEs­Just when you thought rt was safe to go 
last week. It is too bad I couldn't circum­KAZOO. nyou want rt back. cough up one SARY. EXCELLENT INCOME POTEN­vent your feelings of responsibility and
I need riders to PITTSBURGH who can back home lor Thanksgiving vacation .. 
buck for you know what to you know who. leave on Tues.. 11/24. Call Bob 345B. TICKETS FOR THE ROLLING TIAL. INFORMATION, SEND TURKEY BOWL 5 prolong our conversation. That's another 
STONES/SANTANA/IGGY POP CON· 
STAMPED, SELF-ADDRESSED EN· thing my faceless rival dreamed up to REWARD FOR RETURN OF PEARL· RIDERS NEEDED TO BOSTON FOR CERT DEC. 1 AT PONTIAC SIL· VELOPE. P.O. BOX 445B5·ND, LOS ain't nothin' FOWL about THE TURKEY 
thwart me..responsibility. Sad but true. 
OCTOBER BREAK. CALL GERARD OR VERDOME ARE NOW ON SALE AT BOWL
DIAMOND RING LOST NOV. 13 BE­OLIVOS STA., PHOENIX. AZ B5064. Oh, well, I am working on it. Give me time. 
CHUCK, 8192. RIVER CITY RECORDS, 50970 U.S. 31
TWEEN HOWARD AND FARLEY. And do keep my invrtation in mind. 
N. SOME SPACES ARE STILL
PLEASE CALL KATIE x6723 CURSE YOU RED BARON!!! Maria, I JUst met a girl named Maria! Most sincerely yours, Need ride to Buffalo for Thanksgiving. AVAILABLE ON THE SIXTH BUS FOR Tim
AFROTC 'SNOOPY" SHIRTS Evil FOUND: Large number of STAMPS IN NOW ON SALE. ORDER YOURS BY
Call Kevin at 3575 THE CHARTER BUS PACKAGE TO THE 
B.A. Building on 11/16 Call Steve at3121 ROLLING STONES CONCERT. THIS FRIDAY AT THE ROTC BUILDING. TO ROME WITH LOVE HELLO THERE SCA IS COMING! to claim. RiDE NEEDED FOR 2 TO THE PACKAGE INCLUDES ROUND-TRIP R.A.N. M,M,M,S,T,E,etc 
BUS TRANSPORTATION FROM RIVER DETROIT/FERNDALE AREA OVER SCA IS COMING! 
CITY TO PONTIAC, REFRESHMENTS
I found a camera Wednesday near the THANKSGIVING BREAK. WILL SHARE Shirley, Meet me in a hot tub in California. Attention all available NO guys: Beautiful ACC. If you think rt is yours. call Dave USUAL PLUS SUPPLY THE COOKIESII! ON BUS AND TICKET TO CONCERT. Love, Ry Beth with the blue eyes is 1B Saturday. SCA IS COMING I ( 1927) t and give your lnrtials. PLEASE CALL B031 FOR MORE INFORMATION. CALL 277· Make an appointment for your free B·Day 4242. kiss. Call SMC-4444. 
JIM Dear Rachel, 
LOST: A 5B-C Texas Instrument Cal­Need ride to WASHINGTON D.C. or I hope you have a super fantastic 19th Happy 20th birthday! Sorry t can't Two GA basketball tickets for sale. Call Did the get none club lose any of its
culator about a week ago maybe in the thereabouts for T-Giving Could leave on birthday! Live rt up but don't get too sick. come to NO and help celebrate tt, but I Cell Biology Class. If found, please call Tuesday, Nov. 24 WILL SHARE EX­41-4B72. Give me a call sometime, OK? "members" last weekend? Only Pres. have to work on my shoddy fielding at 6737 or return to 143 Farley Hall. PENSES! Call Eric x425B (before BPM) Love ya.AGA third base this weekend. 
Joe knows for sure. For sale: 4 Miami GA's ph. 1205 --TheGirls
PS Someday I'll get you that grain. Thanks for your loyal support. It is be· LOST: LADIES' DEARSKIN cause of fans like you that I wear baseball 
BROWN . Need ride to NORTHERN VIRGINIA for P.S. We know what you need . 
Thanksgiving. Can leave Tuesday after· for sale: 2 GA miami tixs call 2948 OLD AND MENDED--NO QUESTIONS noon. Will share the usuals. Please call Tonight in 4B More EMBARASSING personalsl?...and Love, WILL BE ASKED--288-9322 George GLOVES WITH RABBIT FUR LINING-· Meet the Flower Children pants that are three sizes too small. 
Jim at 1763. FOR SALE:2 Miami-NO Tix.CHEAP.Call it never stops! 
...........,.................................................... Bud x1502 
today is colleen's21st birthday. give her a 
-..:.·.... ·=··.1.!,.'""'"""''"'"'
LOST -Alot of sleep. Saturday night at Desperately need ride to Rochester N Y big smooch I Monica: Have fun at MSU this weekend. Steve· This was the tail ofthereunion of
4 MIAMI G A'S·-BiDXES BEHIND NO
Lyons Formal. If found, see the girl• in for Thanksgiving. Will share dnving and we love you. coco Let's hope he doasn't milk you for all you 
Mtce and Men!!! Steve Mouse­Lyons. expenses. Call Steve B265 woodsie, fer, fit, hula, & beav are... Uncle Ryan. Kidnappers 
BENCH. CALL MARK 3403 
~---~----------~----~----~­
I 
1---] 
1 
I The Observer-Sports Friday, November 20, 1981 -page 13 

I 
I NCAA basketball 
Southern schools rated highly 
ATLANTA (AP) -Coach Joe B. Hall of Kentucky says pre-season basketball ratings won't mean much this year because "there's an awful lot of balance." 
Hall's Wildcats, a perennial South­eastern Conference power, are like­ly to be highly rated this season along with several other Southern powers, including 1981 national runner-up North Carolina and third­place finisher Virginia ofthe Atlantic Coast Conference, Louisville of the Metro Conference and Alabama­Birmingham of the Sun Belt Con­ference. 
"There's an awful lot of talent spread all over the country and until eight or 10 games arc played, you really can't tell," Hall said. "There will be some teams come out of the pack that are equally as good as those that are ranked high." 
With 7-1 Sam Bowie sidelined with a fractured shin bone, Ken­tucky could have trouble just trying to win the SEC. Georgia, a new­comer to the lt:ague's basketball elite, and Alabama return enough starters to give the talent-laden Wild<:ats a fight. 
Bowit: wore a cast for eight weeks, but Hall recently said the bone had not healed as expected· and his star center could miss a month or more of the season. 
Coach Dean Smith lost All­American forward AI Wood from last year·~ team. but North Carolina ti~un:~ to be the strongest outfit in thc South thb year. 
Thl· front line will featun· two talented 6-9 performers -James Worthy and Sam Perkins-and Jim­my Ulack returns to run the attack from point guard. The Tar Heels arc counting hcavily on 6-4 freshman Michael Jordan, who has a 42-inch vertical leap. 
"By the players we have return­ing, we should have a good team," Smith said. "But we can't have any false confidence. We're young. We'll 
learn what  we  have to work with  
early."  
Virginia  lost  two  outstanding  

players in Jeff Lamp and Lee Raker, but the Cavaliers can't be counted out of the picture because of one man -7-4 Ralph Sampson, college basketball's Player of the Year last season. 
Wake Forest, with four starters back, and Clemson also could be in contention in the ACC race. 
Louisville, which has one national titlt: under Denny Crum, has every starter returning from a team that had a horrendous start a year ago before coming on late and returning to the NCAA tournament. 
"Naturally wt• would be picked to win, but the Metro has had a lot of surprises in the past and anything can happen in this league," Crum said. 
The Cardinals feature Derrick Smith, last year's Metro Co-Player of the Year, the McCray's -Rodney and Scooter-and point guardJerry Eaves. 
Cin<:innati, led b 
Bu,y Observer classifieds 
pow€Rs ano q1~ts ~oR all occasstons 
~m€~~-
Wy~~~­
327 lmcolnway 
finished second in last year's Metro with Memphis State and UCLA. Rose Tourney and should be the closest carried the first Sun Belt champion, challenger to Louisville again. Vir­North Carolina-Charlotte, to the ginia Tech, which has one of the Final Four and then went to Purdue, league's top players in Dale which also made an NCAA tourney 
Solomon, and Florida State could appearance. horn its way into the picture, too. Bartow has the preseason favorite, 
With Bowie's status unknown at a team led by the smooth style of Kentucky, Georgia could draw some Oliver Robinson. The question will support as the pre-season SEC be how well UAB replaces Glenn favorite. The Bulldogs are led by Marcus, who ran the team from Dominique Wilkins, a leaper with point guard. spectacular moves who led the SEC Virginia Commonwealth, which in scoring last year. also went to the NCAA last year, and 
Alabama also returns most of last two National Invitation Tournament year's team, including all­teams, South Alabama and Rose's conference performer Eddie Phil­South Florida club, are expected to lips. make the Sun Belt race a four-team 
Tennessee figures to be in the affair. race, but defending champion Western Carolina has four starter Louisiana State, which finished almost 34 points a game last year ­fourth in the NCAA last year, lost and generally is considered the team 
most of its talent, although it does to beat in the Southern Conference. return Howard Carter and Leonard For the second consecutive season, Mitchell, two starters. the conference will experiment 
The Sun Belt features two coaches with the 3-point field goal at the who have carried two or more dif­NCAA's request. ferent schools to the NCAA tourna­Furman, which got 22 points a ment -Gene Bartow of University game from Mel Daniel last year, 
.of Alabama-Birmingham and Lee figures to be the most serious chal­Rose of South Florida. Bartow got lenger to the Catamounts. Appalac­the Blazers into the tournament last hian and Tennessee-Chattanooga year and earlier in his career went also must be considered. 
8:18 PM ia'urdaJ Rev. Oliver Will~~ms, 0.1.0. 
1:00 AM SundaJ. Rev. Richard Conyers, 0.1.0. 
. -------~---­
10:10 All SundaJ Bisho:p Wm. McManus 
. . -. -· 
11:18 PM SundaJ Rev. David E. Schlaver, 0.1.0.. 
7:18 PM Ves:pers Blsho:p Wm. McManus 

NOVEMBER SPECIAL!* 
-shampoo, conditioner, cut style Guys-$7.00 (reg. 13.00) Girls-$10.00 (reg. 18.00) 
*with Co-Designers only 
·How to recognizethe real taste of beer at 17,000 feet 
Give Bat Sbldent aBlue 
Milwaukee,. Wisconsin and other cities. 
.. 
----, 
r-. 
the Observer-Sports Friday, November 20, 1981 -page 14 
Moher, Fairholm 
, Who says you 
Forme~ players coach icers 
can't take it 
,-------~-----­

with you? 
Tke uftuetaft ~ iK fke uftuetate culueafwte RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK 
Skow6 2:15-4:30­
~--­
Celebrate the last weekend before break at 
fg,J Iii J I, r i_l r I TheNAZZI 
Tonight: 9:00-10:30 enjoy the talented JEFF ODiiEN and JACKIE JUNKINS 10:30-? Rock with "APEX" (formerly "Next") Tomo~row: 9:00-10:30 the return of BMS 0 
,. STOP BY! 
10:30-? MAD BOSTAMARTE 
, ..,
............................................................,,,.................... ~ OanCIO(j & ROCk-n-ROll ~ ~ Satu~Oay , 'nov. 21 )Jm Oaly Will B€ the ~ I 0.]. Come out ro~ th€ run at th€ I 
~ Chautauqua taro~tune CluB ~ 
~ I
I ~ 
! P~€S€nt€0 BY you~ n.O. StuOent Umon I 
.............................................., .................................... ..
~ 
By MICHAEL OLENIK 
Sports Writer 
They might not be in the middle of the spotlight, but Len Moher and Terry Fairholm seem pretty satisfied with the position that they are in. You see, both are in their second year as Lefty Smith's right and left hand men, and this time it's not as Smith's most relied upon players. 
The importance of these two to the Irish hockey program now lies on the bench and in the locker room, as the two former teammates from the 1974 through 1978 Notre Dame hockey editions combine for what is considered in league hockey circles to be a very solid coaching staff. 
Moher, a standout goaltender all four of his college years, serves as Smith's full-time assistant and recruiting coordinator, a job that keeps him more than busy. 
"I coach the goaltenders and the defensemen, and I also recruit. During the games I sit in the press box to diagram what we are doing and to see what adjustments are needed." 
Moher's experience in the crease gives him a chance to coach the defense from a different perspective, as he is quick to point out. "Hey, I've played with defensemen enough to know what a goatender looks for. I almost equate the goalie with a quar­terback with repsect to the defense, because of the way that he directs his teammates. Bt:cause I'm the only goalie coach in the league, I think we have a little extra advantage." 
Moher seems intent on stressing Notre Dame's recruiting philosophy. Despite losing a good number of prime recruits each year due to Notre Dame's high academic 

ENJOYA HERTZ 
FOR THANKSGIVING. 
SDAYS 
ONLY 
UNLIMITED MILEAGE 
Subcompact manual-transmission car 
FOR RESERVATIONS, CALL: 219/234-3712 
ONLY$159 FOR 10DAYS. $15.99 PER DAY. 
Larger cars available at higher rates. 
This year, forget the homeward-bound hassle ... and hustle down to Hertz. We'll put you on the road in style at a rate that's hard to beat. Just $79 for five full days with unlimited mileage for a manual-transmission subcompact car. If you are 18 or older, have a student 10 card, and a valid driver's license, that's all you need. Tell us what size car you would like, and we'll have it ready for you starting November 20. So call now for reservations and let Hertz make Thanksgiving a happier holiday. 
Rates are not discountable. Gasoline, applicable taxes, optional Collision Damage Waiver and Personal Accident Insurance are not included. No charge for mileage. All cars subject to ava1lab11ity. Cars must be returned to the rent1ng location no later than November 30, 1981 or higher published Hertz Daily Standard Unlil)1ited Mileage Rates will apply to the entire rental period, and a drop charge will also apply. Ask for complete details. 

#.1 ForEveryone. 
HERTZ RENT~ FOROS AND OTHER FINE CARS 
standards, the native of Wellesley, 
Mass., offers positive comments on 
the system as a whole. 
"The hockey program here at Notre Dame is successful. We've been consistently ranked nationally, and that draws the attention ofmany quality players. I tell the recruits that they can get the best of the athletic and academic world. As I've said, the commmitment to academics is genuine -every hockey player in 13 years has earned a degree." 
As far as his continued involve­ment in hockey, Moher sees only positive reprecussions. "Hockey is the type of sport that is difficult to walk away from. I am fortunate to be able to come back here to get a coachingstart. It .would be foolish to think that I wouldn't get at least a shot at a job at another major school someday, so I'd have to say that I'm satisfied with the way things are going." 
The long range plans of Fairholm might include full-time coaching, but the immediate future is clearly marked for the Quebec native. As coach of the forwards, the former winger finds himself in the class­room as much as on the ice -he is presently enrolled in the Masters of Business Administration program here at Notre Dame. 
Despite paying considerable at­tention to the books, Fairholm spends much of his time musing of­fensive strategy and possible line combinations. "I am fully respon­sible for the forwards and and our scoring stategy. I formulate the lineups and decide who goes on the ice at what time during the course of the game." 
Suprisingly, this former goal­scoring leader recieves more satis­faction from a spectator's point of view. "I certainly enjoy coaching more than playing, although I do miss taking a more active part in the game. It definitely is a whole new point of view from behind the bench, but it can be very satisfying." 
Confronted with a question about this year's hockey team, Fairholm refuses to believe that the Irish are anything less than a quality team. 
"I really think we have a helluva team. We've got our share of youth, talent, and a good attitude. I know the coaching staff is enthusiastic, so it's just a matter of raising everyone up to their best level. If :we go out and work hard, we'll be in every game." 
Bad times or not, the Irish hockey team is far from out of the picture, a belief firmly held by these two coaches who have seen this show before. Hopefully, it won't take an appearance on the ice to show that they want to see success, although such a thought might have crossed both oftheir minds. 
• Slavs 
continuedfrompage 16 
State squad. 
Olympic followers will remember that Yugoslavia's national basketball team won the gold medal in 1980 at Moscow. But this is not the same team. Coach Ranko Zeravica led that team to the Olympic medal, but he has much less talent to work with in this squad. Nevertheless, Phelps sees this as a good team for Notre Dame to start out with. 
"They'll be a good test for us," he says. "We need tO see how we can do against a big team. It'll also give us a chance to work on our offenses, and especially our defenses, in prepara­tion for the regular season. Besides, it's always good to get actual play in a game situation under our belts before the season gets started. This'll be a real challenge." 
The:oCl~Jsen.er__ ==-== 
~~c:JlC3L~============================F=r;id:a:y:,N:o:v:e:m:b:e:r:2:0:,:1:98=1====pa:g:e:1:5~
Molarity 
II TURNS OIJT DION IS RC¥>HHAT£5 WITH/l-IAI 
CHIXK HA~N .SICK D. HY 6VE5S 15 1-1£ 16 711£" HAN BE/WJD 'ffiE OPE~ATION 

WE'V£ !j££/1.} AFI'ER lJ/15 :JJ&JE.RSJVE: FOR 5C»'!ETINE;.. I TUINK /..JC: CAN MA/1£ 1HI5 CHA~GJ£ .5f1CI"\,., rT'6 TIM£ WE WENT 7DH/S 
RODH TO ~ET HIM. 
Doonesbury 
;vu5ft, tdiJ.:rB?., 7Hl3 7RICJ< IS 7TJ GE7 PfQJt£ 7lJ 7HINK. '1011/?E SO /JARN #FIIBt.& 
7HATMAY!£ Yaf< POLI­CJe; Af(Ef.fr SO 8AP 
AF'TCR AJ.j_ • '-..., 
The Daily Crossword 
..,.,....-t--lf--+---1 
..,.,...-t---lf--+---1 
--+--lf--+---1 
-:::--t-~r---t----1 
":":""-t-~r---t---1 
Michael Molinelli 

Garry -Trudeau 

NOlA/, THEN, '!IJU'LL NEE[) 
5l)lf; IW&ClXJTl5. f?E.1161lN HAS SIOUN IJS 7HAT 7Hfill&
OH" 
15 NtJTHIMJl/K& A GCXJI)I SllJI?Y 70 a57RACTf1EOPtE f'P(Jflf 7Hl3 81JS/NtSS 1/THAN£). '\ 
ACROSS 25 Actress 1 Trudge Signe 5 "The rain 29 j)hysicians: 
in-... " abbr. 10 Windjammer 32 Double pole curves 14 Hebrides 36 Regardless Isle 38 Pathologi· 15 Mountain cal suffix ridge 40 Parrot fish 
53 Old poem collections 54 Mrs. in Madrid 56 City on the 
Danube 58 Shaded mall 62 Most 
orderly 67 Silent star 
16 Parisian 41 Milan money 68 What HP 
friend 42 Broadway 17 Famed hit Indian 44 Put -on 19 Kyle of (quash) sports 45 Cut of meat 20 Uses a heat 46 Asian 
process holiday 21 Stuck 47 Liniment 23 Residence: 49 Garter or abbr. rattler 24 -generis 51 -Moines 
Thursday's Solution 
means 70 Potentate 71 Get onstage 72 Roman 
tyrant 73 Roy's wife 74 Holds a 
session 75 Jane or Zane 
DOWN 1 Typetype 2 Neglected 3-even keel 4 Confusion 5 Comic Mort 
and family 6 Wrote dully 7 Relative 
of atm 8 "-small world" 
9 Musthave 10 USMC base 11 Cupid 12 Location 13 Addressed 
the ball 
18 Coarse 
person 22-and cry 25 "-of 
Montezuma" 26 Electrified particle 27 Where Damas· cus is 28 One'sown 
legs 30 Way 31 Dallas 
campus 33 Dense 34 MsJong 35 Soft drinks 37 Damp 39 Sly-fox 43 Geometry 
sign·off 48 Plan anew 50 Before 52 -strip 55 Abou Ben­57 Sensual 
looks 58 Retired 59 Tibet 
holy man 60 Seed coat 61 Tops 63 Chinese 
society 64 Washbasin 
adjunct 65 Dried up 66 Where Helen 
dwelt 69 30D: abbr. 
Campus 
Friday, November 20 
•10:
10 a.m. -Seminar, "Ecological, Engineering and Legal Aspects ofPower Plant Operation on the Hudson River", Dr. John P. Waller, Waller, Matusky and Skelly Engineers, 205 Cushing, Sponsored by Environmental Engineers, All are welcome 

•12:
15 p.m. -Meeting, Italian Club, Faculty Dining Room, South Dining Hall, AU Italian speak· ing professors are invited 

•12:15 
p.m. -Slide presentation, "Add a Little Salt to Your Undergraduate Years", Chris Patrickoski, ND Biology Major, Galvin Auditorium, Sponsored by Biology Oepartment, All are Invited 

•12: 
15 p.m. ·-Lecture, "Thomas More's Utopia: A Socratic Dialogue", Gerard Wegemer, ND graduate student, Memdrial Library Lounge, All are welcome 

• 
3:30p.m. -Colloquium, "How to Find Truths in Physics That Will Survive the Failure of Our Best Current Theories", Dr. Charles Misner, University of Maryland, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall, Sponsored by Physics and Philosophy Department, All are welcome 

•4-5 
p.m. -Spanish club tertulia, south alcove on main floor, LaFortune, Venga para hablar con nosotros y practicar el arte de conversar! 

•7, 
9, II p.m. -Film, "Every Which Way But Loose", Engineering Auditorium, 51 admission 

•s 
'p.m. -ND/SMC Theatre, t "The Inspector General", By Nikolai Gogo!, Washington Hall, Tick· ets available at the door 

•s 
p.m. -Country Rock Jam, Ozark Mountain Daredevils, Stepan Center, Sponsored by Stud t ent Union, SS advance, S6 at door 

•7:30 
p.m. -Hockey, ND vs. Ohio State, Athletic and Convocation Center, 

•s 
p.m. -Basketball, ND vs. Yugoslavia, Athletic and Convocation Center 

•8:30 
p.m. -Colloquium, "Geometry in Physics: Einstein are New Unifications", Charles Misner, University of Maryland, Memorial Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Physics and Philosophy Departments, All are invited 


Saturday, November 21 
•1 
p.m. -Football, ND vs. Penn State, Away, 

•7. 
9. II p.m. -Film, "Every Which Way But Loose", Engineering Auditorium, S I admission 

•7':30 
p.m. -Hockey, ND vs. Ohio State, Athletic and Convocation Center 

•s 
p.m. -ND/SMC Theatre, "The Inspector General", Washington Hall, Tickets available at the door 


S.unday, November 22 
•3 
p.m.-Film, "Stepping Out: The Debolts Grow Up", Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's College, Sponsored by Saint Mary's Social Action Committee, Refresh· ments will be served 

•s 
p.m. -Concert, Wind Ensemble, Roger Briggs, conductor, Little Theatre, Saint Mary's College 

•8:15 
p.m. -Concert, University Chorus, Marilyn White, conductor, Sacred Heart Church 


Television Tonight 
8:00p.m. 16 NBC Magazint· 22 Dukes of llazzanl 28 Battle of the Network Stars 34 Washington Week In Review 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 
8:30p.m. 34 Wall Street Week 46 Tht• Rt·newed Mind 
9:00p.m. 16 McLain's Law 22 Dukes of Hazzard 34 Enterprise 46 Today With Lester Sumrall 
9:30p.m. 34 Ben Wattenberg At Large: 
!O:OOp.m. 16 It's Only Human 22 Dallas 28 Strike Force: 
.... 
---------------~~
Bring your <j<jV/ll~J®ffi:LE:LE~~~\. ticket stub to Senior Bar I and buy your first draft for a I penny! I 
TONIGHT! I 
zark Mountain Da evi 
~_. Saturday Nite: II 
t--iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-THE JAM 15-BEREI~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil 
Center-show-starts after the basketball ~~-·--iin•••:J'Iiry··..U;·i.~iliitl~ii-"•
4 :lu,iii'~UiiJiiil'....tt.iiii"4:L!;J.~ ~:y~'-0~~ I 
..... 
--------__. ­
Friday, November 20, 1981 -page 16 
Weekend hockey 
Irish play host to Ohio State 
By MICHAEL OLENIK first time that I don't really think lose. We are just not executing the Sports Writer they saw the team we really are. I basic fundamentals of hockey. And don't forsee us playing as badly his until we do, we will continue to play 
A feeling of immediacy is being time." as we have been." felt by Lefty Smith and his 2-5-1 Welch's confidence lies primarily A shakeup in the first three lines hockey team, as last week's two in the play of senior center Larry gave the Irish offense some balance lossses to Michigan State has left the Marson and defenseman Dan Man­against the Spartans iast week, and it Irish with only one victory in their dich, also in his last year. On the will be tha same type ofbalance that 
' last lltX'1~ games. Taere is hope seas0t1, the two rank one and two in will facilitate .a team C?OIIICback: if however, that the Ohio State the Buckeye scoring charts as they there is to be one. Buckeyes will provide the prey that have picked up from a year ago With Bill Rothstein now teamed is needed to set the Irish back on the when both collected all-CCHA post with Kirt Bjork and Jeff Logan, the winning ways they enjoyed early in season honors. Irish have a strong second line to · the season. Scoring, however, is not the story compliment the solid first shift of 
The sq~5on has not had positive behind Ohio State's game plan. In­Dave Poulin, Jeff Perry and John overtones for the team from stead, they seem right at home when Deasey. Columbus either, as Ohio State is they play the game ·in a physical 
Rothstein has taken over as pointmired in tenth place of the CCHA, mannner, as Irish defenseman Jim leader with 1 3 ( 3 goals, 1 0 assists),one notch below the struggling Brown testified after the early while Perry and Bjork pace the goalIrish. The tie and a loss in the 1-4-1 season encounter. 
scorers with five apiece in leagueBuckeye record stems from the "Ohio ~tate can definitely be clas­play.
league opening series between the sified as a rough and physical team. I Despite being tainted by last two teams back in October, and it is know they dished out their share of week's series, Dave Laurion remains very likely that ·Jerry Welsh's team shots throughout the series, but we stable in the nets with a 3.86 g.a.a
will be looking for some type of handled ourselves pretty well." 
and a league-leading 233 saves. Con­
retaliation. For a tenth place team, the sistently good play from Laurion will "They (Notre Dame) have proven Buckeyes boast a relatively solid be necessary ifthe team is to changethey're not a mystical team by the goaltending tandem, as John Dam­the current trend, and the time and way they've been playing lately, " rath and John Dougan have place for the change is here and nowsaid Welsh of the Irish this week. combined for a 3.89 g.a.a. in league to Assistant Coach Len Moher. 
"When we faced them earlier, they games. Damrath's 3.12 average played extremely well and would places him ninth in a league that is "The problem is definitely more have been tough for anyone to beat. being dominated by good goaltend­basic than line changes, " offers We know their personnel now, and ing -a fact that the Irish need not Moher. "We aren't passing, skating know which players to key on. Plus, be reminded of. and shooting as I know we can." we played so badly against them the Reasons for Notre Dame's recent There is no doubt that an im­
play are hard to pinpoint for any ob­provement in all three departments server, but Smith certainly gave a will be needed if the Irish wish to good attempt early this week. "I erase the last three weekends from wish I could point to one specific memory. Starting time for both
The unclear bowl picture 
thing, but actually it's a combination games is set for 7:30, with tickets of problems which are causing us to available at the Gate 10 box office. By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Associate Sports Edttor 
Usually, it's pretty worthless to try to guess who will 

Yugoslavian squad 
play in what bowl game. Somebody always messes you up by losing the day after you make your predictions public. 
presents problems
The exception this year is that things appear to be just a bit clearer than in the past ...for now. This Memphis between Christmas and New Year's Day, for­
By SKIP DESJARDIN to keep full-court pressure on them,
weekend will make all the difference in the world. get it. Faust wants a bowl game, and so do some of the 
Associate Sports Editor and try to force mistakes. We can't
players. But Fr. Joyce and others don't think the Irish 
let them set up into that methodical
January 1, 1982 should lower themselves to go to a "minor bowl." So Digger Phelps and his assistants offense."
Rose Bowl -Pasadena -3 p.m.: Does two con­much for the dream match-up with Ohio State. It now have had a tough task this week. Irish fans can count on seeing asecutive Rose Bowl bids a dynasty make? They are looks as though Navy will go bowling, and take on the They've had to prepare for a team much wider variery ofoffensive andhoping just that in Washington and Michigan. But there Buckeyes or Iowa in Mamphis. 
they know nothing about. When defensive formations tonight than
are obstacles for both teams. Washington State needs December28 Belgrade's Red Star Club from they did in last Sunday's charityonly a win or a tie to make it to Pasadena. The Wol­Gator Bowl -Jacksonville--8 p.m.: North Yugoslavia takes the court at the game.
verines have to get by Ohio State, something they've Carolina will travel down the road for a match-up with ACC tonight, they'll be just as much "We're quicker than they are, sonot always been successful at. Wouldn't it serve the the Hogs of Arkansas. Kelvin Bryant could have taken a surprise to the Irish coaching staff we'll try to control the tempo of thehigh-and-mighty Rose Bowl execs right ifthe game was the Heels a lot farther than Florida, alas. Lou Holtz may as they are to most fans. game," Brokaw explains. "We wantIowa vs. Washington State? That's not too far-fetched. never get to the Cotton Bowl, despite consistently There are two Yugoslavian teams to mix up our defenses as well, justCotton Bowl-Dallas -1 p.m.: Neither Texas nor having quality teams. Let's shed a tear for both tht:se touring the country right now, and to keep them off-balance a little." 
Alabama should be in Dallas on New Year's Day, but teams. 
little information is known about The man to watch for Belgrade is 
they will be. The Longhorns should be at home -SMU December26 . either of them. Even Notre Dame's Zoran Radovic. The 19-year-old 't is the best in the Southwest Conference, but they are on Sun Bowl El Paso -8 p.m.: Oklahoma and fabled Sports Information Office has guard has been burning the nets on~ probation. The Tide should be in the Superdome -Southern Mississippi. The Eagles, who have yet to lose a no information on them. the team's American tour. He was 8­I they are the best team in the Southeast Conference, game, and have tied Alabama, deserve better than this. 
"I've seen them play," says Assis­10 for 24 points against Drake, and
I 
despite what Vince Dooley says. The only good thing But don't be surprised ifthey don't even get this much. about this game is that the two teams make a lot of IfMichigan loses to Ohio State, they could make the trip tant Coach Gary Brokaw, "but don't 8-11 for 16 points against James 
ask me any names. Alii know is their Madison. That percentage is not in­
I 
money. south. The Sooners will be there one way or the other. 
numbers." dicative ·of the entire Yugoslavian
Sugar Bowl -New Orleans -8 p.m.: How 'bout OTHERS But Notre Dame coaches do have team, but is a hint at the club's shoot­
them Dawgs? For the second straight year, they go Holiday Bowl: The winner of the Brigham Young­ood idea ofwhat kind ofgame to ex­ing ability. Thus far on their tour,
crawling into this game with their tails between their Utah game (bet on BYU) is locked in, and will face the pect, if not the abilities of any in­they are averaging 56.6 percentlegs, hoping nobody will notice that they never play loser ofthe Washington-Washington State game. 
dividuals. from the floor.
conference rivals Alabama, Mississippi State or LSU. And Astra-Bluebonnet Bowl: Look for UCLA and a Big "They are a big team, but they're Part of the reason that Irish
Pittsburgh should hang their heads as well. If they had Ten team, depending on who goes to the Rose Bowl. any guts, they'd be in Tempe playing Clemson for a real Garden State Bowl: Tennessee will take on Wiscon­
surprisingly quick," says Brokaw. coaches are hopeful of their team's "They use a lot oflong outlet passes, ability to compete with the Yugos­national championship, not trying to sneak in the back sin. Sorry, Badger fans, but East Rutherford, N.J. is not which makes them a good transition lavs on the offensive and defensive
door. These two teams are the scum ofthe NCAA. Pasadena.· team. But they are very methodical, boards is the fact that Radovic, a 6-0 
Orange Bowl -Miami -8 p.m. Give credit where Hall of Fame Bowl: Mississippi State had a lot of which is typical of teams in interna­guard, is the team's leading reboun­it's due. The Huskers of Nebraska shook off a slow start potential, butfizzled, so they'll go up against the surpris­
tional play. der.
and won the Big Eight going away. They deserve to be ingJayhawks ofKansas. 
"They'll run the fast break, but in­Radovic, who will wear number
here, even if they lose to Oklahoma. Clemson is in the Independence Bowl: Texas A&M will match up stead of trying to hit a teammate 11 tonight, is a legitimate star -he
midst of their greatest season ever, but they better en­with the winner ofthe 0 klahoma State-IowaState game. 
with the outlet pass, they'll look to is averaging 18 points per game onjoy it while they can. Get a good look at them, folks. Big deal. 
hit a certain spot on the floor. What the team's swing through America,
They'll be on probation before you can say "recruiting Tangerine Bowl: The battle of the Cougars could we have to do is keep them from get­and is also averaging five steals per
violations." shape up here. If BYU loses to Utah watch for them in ting to the spot to catch the pass." contest.
Fiesta Bowl -Tempe, Arizona -2 p.m.: By all Orlando against Houston. But this is a likely place for Tonight's game will be a chance The Yugoslavs will count on two
rights, the first New Year's Day edition of this bowl Southern Mississippi to wind up. That's a shame, they for the Irish to see how they can other players to provide much ofthe
should be for all the marbles. It was a match made in deserve better. 
match up physically with a big team. scoring punch. Stevan Karadzic, a 6­heaven. Undefeated Pitt against undefeated Clemson. Peach Bowl: West Virginia and quarterback Ollie 
Instead, you're likely to get runner-up USC against Luck will take on the winner ofthe Florida-Florida State The Yugoslavs run 6-7, 6-7, 6-9 4 guard, tallied 10 points, and pulled across the frontcourt. in six-rebounds--Monday night
always-a-bridesmaid Penn State. That's some consola­game. Two decent teams, from relatively close to At­"Yeah, it'll be a key for us to stay
tion, however. It should be a far more exciting game lanta, should make for a good draw. against Drake. He'll wear number 9 than Texas-Alabama. with them on the boards,'.' admits tonight. Zufer Audija, a 6-7 forward, 
December30 Now watch, all these picks will get blown out of the Brokaw. "They are very strong un­cashed in for 18 points on an 8-14 Liberty Bowl -Memphis -8 p.m.: Ifyou're one water after this weekend's upsets. But it's entertaining derneath. "performance against a tough N. C. "More than that, though, we have
-of those~ho's -heard thatNotreDamewiiCbe-in to second-guess. Isn't it? See SLAVS, page 14 



