
-·­
....------------------­
VOL. XVI, NO. 20 an lrHiepc-ndenr ~rudent newspap<'"r serv1~g notrf" dam<'" and saint mary's FRIDAY* SEPTEMBER 18, 1981 
GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. (AP) 
President  Reagan  arrived  in  
Gerald  R. Ford's  hometown  
yesterday  to  roast  the  White  

House years of his onetime Republican rival and attempt to patch America's relations with rwo other honored guests, the leaders of Canada and Mexico. 
Reagan arrived in Grand Rapids at 2:30 p.m. EDT and was greeted by Ford, who visited with him briefly on Air Force One. 
The rwo men emerged from the aircraft side by side.. As Reagan turned toward Ford, he began to stumble at the door­way but caught his balance before falling. 
Reagan planned to meet separately with Canadian Pnme Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau and Mexican Pres­ident Jose LoJ?ez Portillo to discuss a vanety of issues which have come to trouble the friendship of North American Neighbors. 
From Reagan's point of view, they include Canada's new energy policy, aimed at giving her own companies greater control over her oil and gas resoureces, and Mexico's sup­port for leftist rebels in El Salvador. 
The three leaders along with former French President Valery Giscard d'Estaing and J apenese Foreign Minister Sunao Sunoda, will attend the dedication of the Ford pres­idential museum today. 
White House aides tried to play down the international aspects of the journey, stres­sing instead it's ceremonial nature. 
At Saint Mary 's 

"It is important ro remember the occasion of the visit to Grand Rapids is the opening of the museum,'' said one official.' 'The intention -here is not to hold summit meetings of any type.'' 
Still, this official, who asked not to be indentified, said traditionally close U.S. ties with Canada were facing ''very diff1cult, some would say in­tractable, problems." 
"Our interest is in making progress," he said. "It just doesn't come as rapidly as some would like.'' 
Since he has become pres­ident, Reagan has made a point of stressing his intention to pay closer attention to the nation's North American neighbors. He has met several times previously with Trudeau 
and Lopez Portillo. As the instructor detat!s the route to be taken But all has not been going around Saint Mary's Lake, the junior-year ROTC members stare incredulously at the
SEE REAGAN PAGE 5 
Rightists claim responsibility 
Ten persons die in Lebanese blasts 

Reagan n1eets with Trudeau, Portillo 
SIDON* Lebon (AP) -An Lebanese town of Chekka. explosion rocked this coastal The PLO and ''National stronghold of the Palestine Movement'' coalition of leftists Liberation Organization which share a seven story Thursday morning, killing at command center that was the least 108, according to police appar~nt target of the bombing and hospital reports. blamed israeli agents. There 
A telephone caller claiming was no immediate Israeli to represent anti-Palestinian response. rightists claimed responsibility The PLO reinforced the for the explosion here and one shattered neighborhood with that killed 10 people and mobile ami-aircraft guns and injured 10 others about the warned residents to expect same time in the northern Israeli air attacks. 

0-C Board serves as messenger 
By MARK WORSHEH News Staff 
Moving off campus for most students means getting away from the constraints of dorm rules and regulations. Unfortu­nately, students usually sacrif­ice dorm s~irit and most on­campus mail in exchange for their independence. 
Senior Kathleen Engler, off­campus commissioner at Saint 

FRIDAY 
FOCUS 
Mary's, believes that students 

do  not  have  to  make  such  
sacrifices.  
Engler  has formed  an  Off-,  

Campus Board designed to pass along information as well as to plan special off-campus events for the 85 o-c students at SMC. 
Though she admits that the focus of the board is "mainly social,'' Engler recognizes the need for the Board to act as a messenger. 
Mary Anne O'Donnell, direc­tor of student affairs at SMC, also expressed support for the Board, calling it "a very effective means of getting communication out.'' 
''I'm really impressed with the organization that Kathleen has done," O'Donnell added. 
Preliminary organization has proven to be more an obstacle than Engler had anticipated. A list of those living off campus was not available early in the year, so Engler had to put a list together herself. While stress­ing that the Offices of Student Affairs and Residence Life have been very helpful, she does not '' think that 1t is the students' responsibility to do this son of filing.'' 
''I would think that one of the people existing in Student Affairs could take this on.'' said Engler. 

Mmnie Owens, SMC housing coordinator, said that a separ­ate o-c listing is not available now, but will be within the next few weeks. Computer delays and a high number of correct­ions have contributr"d to the 
problem. Owens admitted, "We're sim­ply behind." 
In spite of early difficulties, Engler now has a fairly comp­lete list of all o-c residents, 
SEE BOARD* PAGE 5 
Israeli jets . flying over Beriut, 24 miles north of here, and southern Lebanon on ~outine surveillance later in the day drew heavy anti-aircraft fire from Palestinian gunners. 
The source of the explosion wasn't immediately pinpointed. Some accounts said it came from one or two bomb-rigged cars while others said it was from a dynamite-packed truck parked outside the PLO's regional command headquarters. 
The blast collapsed numerous concrete and cinder­block apartment buildings into tons of rubble, hurled broken glass nearly a third of a mile away and wreckec vehicles in morning rush hour. 
The explosiOn, shortly after 9 a.m., occurred 50 minutes before the PLO and the leftist militia officers were to convene a meeting inside th~ PLO­National Movement building. 

ND security reports assault, break-in 
Notre Dame security officers questioned rwo juveniles in connection with the reported assualt of a St. Mary's student, but were unable to apprehend rwo men who entered the Washington Hall room ofanother student. Both incidents occurred about 4:15p.m. Wednesday. 
Notre Dame chiefof security Glenn Terry said the reported assualt occurred as the student was walking along St. Mary's road. Although the student had left the area by the 
' time securtiy officers arrived, Terry said the youths were picked up while running through the area. Terry said it was believed the youths "had contact with the student and words were exchanged.'' The rwo were questioned and released, Terry said. A female student asleep in her second floor Washington Hall room was awakened by rwo men who entered her room, but apparently ran from the residence hall when she screamed. terry said It was unknown how the men entered the hall and made their way to the second floor without being detected. Terry said security officers are invest­ig<lting reports of non_:-_§_tudents ''roaming -the halls '' 
The buikding's exterior walls 
were blown out but the PLO 
wouldn't say how much other 
damage occurred or let 
reporters approach it. 
The casualty count came from the names of those killed and wounded as compiled by police and medical workers at clinics here and ag Beriut hospitals, where many of the injured were rushed in taxicabs and ambulances. 
A Red Cross worker said 
there could be more bodies 
under the rubble. 
A reporter able to get near the blast area saw a weeping man carting off a blanket stuffed with a few possessioLs. 
An old woman refused FT .0 guards' requests that she leave her wrecked apartment 
IMi'dire 
Areporter able to get near the blast area saw a weeping man carting off a blanket stuffed with a few possessions. An old woman refused PLO guards' requests that she leave her wrecked apartment building. 
The explosion in Chekka, about 35 miles north of Beirut, was reported by the privately owned "Voice of Lebanon" radio station. The broadcast said the blast destroyed a cement plant. 
The "Front for the Liberation of Leganon from Aliens" was responsible for both explosions. according to a tel~~honing messenger not provtding an identity but claiming to speak for the group. 
Little is known about the Front, which has claimed responsibility for attacks on the PLO, leftist targets in the mostly Moslem sector of Beirut, and for an attempt to assassinate then-U.S. Ambassador John Gunther Dean in August 1980. 

l, 
~~--~-­

-----,-------------------~----... 


News Brief! 
by The Ohserwr and The A.rsociated PreJJ 
u.s. military plane crashes 
A West German army helicopter and a U.S. Military aircraft collided in.flight yesterday during NATO exercises, killing two Amencan and two German servicemen, authorities said. The four bodies were found in the wreckage of an Alouette II helicopter acd a propellor-driven ''OV 10 Bravo'' reconnaissance plane in southwest Germany, a German army spokesman said. He said the idendtities of the victims were not immediately available and that the cause of the collision was under investigation. The collision took place near the town of Albstadt-Ebingen, some 40 miles south of Stuttgart on the northeastern edge of the Black Forest, the spokesman said The West Germans were taking part in the "Sharp Blade" exercises as part of the annual NATO fall war games. -')ap) 

Student Union lotteries 
Does Notre Dame social life depend on the risky gamble ofa lottery? In a sense, the answer is yes; with all the popular concerts and nearby games this year, Student Union is increasing its use of lottery system for delegating tickets. Next on the the concert agenda is Dan Fogelberg, who will visit the ACC on Oct. 20. Sign-ups for the Fogelberg ticket lottery will be held at Stepan Center, this Sunday at 7:00 
p.m. One week from Sunday, sign-ups for the Nov. 7 foreigner concert will be taken at 7:00 p.m. in LaFortune ballroom. Besides the concert lotteries, Student Union will take names and I. D. numbers for chances at the 200 tickets for the November 21 Penn State game. Sign-ups will follow th.e method used for the Purdue and Michigan tickets, and wdl be taken on November 2,3, and 4 at the Student Union ticket office. As an added feature, Student Union 1s planning to sponsor a bus to the game. -The Observer ­
Jury finds DeMeyer guilty 
St. Joseph County Sheriff Ralph DeMeyer was found guilty last night of extorting money from an admitted Madame in exchange for protecting her prostitution operatin. The jury deliberated about five hours before returning the guilty verdict against DeMeyer. The 52 year-old sheriff was on trial in U.S. District Court on charges of conspiring to extort $5,200 in campaign contributions in 1978 from Ramona Desich. Ms. Desich then owned and operated go-go bars in South Bend. U.S. District Judge Allen Sharp set Nov. 6 as the sentencing date. (AP) 

Senators oppose arms sale 
Secretary of State Alexander M. Haig Jr., told Congress yesterday that failure to approve an $8.5 billion arms package for Saudi Arabia would undermine "our security, the security of Israel and peace itself.'' But one Senate foe said he has the votes to block the sale Sen. Robert Packwood, R-Ore. said 51 senators, 32 Democrats and 19 Republicans now co-sponsor a resolution to reject the sale to the Saudis of sophisticated A WACs radar planes and jetfighter weaponry. and he said six other senators also will vote against it. Sen. John Glenn, D-Ohio., said compromise is essential because the administration, trying to sooth_ concerns over the impact of the spy planes on the security of Israel, plans to send Saudi Arabia "a down rated, half-way" A WACs incapable of meeting all combat situations. The former astronaut proposed a compromise by which the United States would cut the price of the A WACs fleet by halfin exchange for a joint U.S. I Saudi command. -(AP) 

Commission re}ects postal hike 
The 'Postal Rate Commission rejected another request to boost the price of a first-class stamp from 18 cents to 20 cents yesterday, discounting the Postal Service's claim that new labor contracts compel an increase. It was the third time the Postal Service has asked for a 20-cent stamp and the third time the independent rate-setting commission has refused to go along. In yesterday's decision, the commission said the public already pays ''fair and equitable rates'' that give the Postal Service enough money to deliver the mail. The nine-member Postal Service may vote to put the 20-cent rate into effect unilaterally at a meeting Tuesday. The law provides it can be impose such unilateral increases by a unanimous vote and by giving 10 days notice of its intention. However, such a move would be unprecedented and almost certain to cause a court challenge. -(AP) 
... 

Friday, September 18, 1981 -page 2 

Bending vs. breaking 
"The foolish and the dead never change their opinion.'' --James Russell Lowell 
Ifyou could take all the problems in the world and chalk them to a single cause, what would it be? Some might say philosophical differences, conflicting values, diverse ideologies, ineptitude or a thousand additional answers. I believe the answer is much more simple. We are a world which cannot compromise. 
As Mr. Lowell pointed out, never flinching from held opinions constitutes foolishness. And yet man cannot but help hold fast to opinions, for he has been bred to not compromise. The concept generally has negative connotations, often surfacing in such cliches as "com­promisisng yourself," or "compromising one's standards.'' 
The etymological roots of the word literally mean 'with promise.' Such a meaning may be interpreted as 'with promise' to attempt agreement. Every culture, society and person possesses some sort of values, ideas, beliefs or convictions. Considering institutions are con­stantly interacting, it is a wonder the world does not have more conflicts. 
The news of the last week, for instance, depicts vastly different conflicts -but all of which make world peace an elusive ideal rather than a concrete reality. For example: 
Northern Ireland--Hunger strikers continue to die, yet Britain remains aloof. Although Mrs. Thatcher may not see eye-to-eye with the IRA, such a rigid stance appears increasingly callous in light of the senseless deaths. 
Polish Labor situation--The Communist party 
has threatened the Solidarity Union with 
bloodshed should strikers seek political means 
to end their conflict. The labor strike has 
lingered for already over a year -with each 
side suffering and virtually no progress. 

Reagonomics--President Reagan remains 
adamant in his economic policies despite 
soaring interest rates, warnings from corporate 
entrepreneurs and even the Federal Reserve. 
The U.S. finds it necessary to spend billions of 
dollars on nuclear weapons -while a con 
siderable portion of the world starves -in an 
effort to maintain "peace.'' 

On a more local level, there are dozens ofdaily 
instances in the routine hustle and bustle of 
Domerland which demand compromise. The 
University bureaucracy, with which students 
identify every time an issue gets locked in a file 
~abine~ rather than bein.g rationally ~iscussed, 
Immediately comes to mi~d. ·And at umes, the 
administration must shake its head and lament 
how much we all have yet to learn. Instances 
where the University has clearly compromised 
($20,000 Coffee-house grant, new dormitories, 
additional registration day), student feedback 
may safely be tagged positive. 

Yes, even in our little Xanadu, so much of 
surviving the system entails compromise. the 
amount of time spent studying, a stand taken in 
a sticky situation and the manner of dealing with a roommate all entail compromise. A certain professor, for instance, likes papers written in a particular form. You forsake your creativity, turn in prose you consider dry, droll and lifeless for the sake of the almighty GPA. 

Over compromise or lack thereof, friendships can weaken should one party refuse to budge an inch on a particular issue. And though the issue may soon be forgotten, things are never quite the same when a disagreement has been solved leaving a clear victor and loser. 
Perhaps this is why there is so much dissension in the world. We have yet to master the art of compromise. 
Compromise is not negative, for it does not and should not m<.an a forfeiting of all standards. It is not one party giving in to 

another's policies in their entirety. It entails parties at both ends reaching some sort of middle ground both may come to comfortably rest upon. 
Perhaps ifinternational leaders could step into the moccassins of their foes and take a short walk, things would not appear in such distinct shades of black and white. we live in an increasingly complex, complicated world which makes black and white a virtual uncertainty. 
Reagan, the IRA, Walsea, and the Soviets the University, your friends and roommates' all need t<;> r~alize tha.t comp~omise is not a clirty word; It IS what lies behmd everything from labor negotiations to apologies. 
There is an old Scottish proverb which says "it is better to bend than break." The world's greatest problem? 
Flexibility. 
Observer note______ 
Rich Adams and Joe Musumeci have assumed the positions of Observer copy editors. Adam is a freshman from Manitou Springs, Co. Musumeci is a sophmore from Washington, D.C. 


The_Obs.eryer 


((;c)U(clUCJUcl 
Design Editor --Maura Murphy lclfl>Jtulle {lui:>Design Asst. --Bridget Geegan Staff --Dead 
Rock & Bluegrass with the
News Editor --Tim Vercellotti Copy Editors --Steve Navarre, Rich Adam Typists --TJ, Dodee Carney Sports Layout --Chris Needles Photographer --Tonia Hap Other Names Meriting Mention --None whatsoever Guest Appearances --List of stupid names, dumb jokes, etc. DEATH TO PREFIX!!! 
The Observer (USPS 598 920\ 1s publiShed Monday through Fnday except dur1ng exam and vacatiOn per1ods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys College Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $30 per year ($15 per semester) by wr1t1ng The Ob­server, P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. In­diana 46556. 
The Observer IS a member of the Assoc1ated Press All reproduct1on r~ghts qre reserved 


The 0 bserver Friday, September 18, 1981 -page 3 
Over LSU weekend 

Incidents abound on campus 
N.D. PARTY HEADQUARTERS 

BY KATIE MCDONNELL 
JVJ.:WSSTAFF 
The bustle and excitement which 
engulfed  the  Notrt•  Dame  com­ 
munity  throughout  this  past  
weekend  brought  with  it  ap­ 

proximately HO incidents involving thdts. auto accidents and even the transfer of counterfeit money in the campus, according to Notre Dame Security. 
Although many of the actions reported an: the result of foul play, tht·re art· others, too, which made hnoes out of Notre Dame students in their attempts tp prevent any fur­tht•r mishaps. 
:vronday night a ND female stu­dent, riding ht'f hike on the sidewalk path hctwt:cn Cartier field and Courtney Tennis Centn, was momt·ntarily assalted hy a male youth of approximately college age. An aproad1ing car. however, frightt·m·d the attackt.·r away. 
<ln Friday night an H-month old girl in ;t 'trollt-r was struck hv an au10 at the corner ol Juniper Road and Bulla An·nuc during the Stc:pan Cnllt'f l't·p Rally. A~ the car at­tcrnptc:d to kave the scc:nc. a group of~~ udent' managt·d to call to others down till' road. eventually stopping the car and it~ drin·r. Tht: child. Emi­ly Brammt·r. of 15~·i Albgeld St.. South lknd. ~ullen·d only minor abrasion~ in tlw atddcnt. 
In anothc:r indtknt on friday night. '\f[) . frnhman Robert \k'\<ti'ingk wa~ ~c:lling football programs nt·ar tht· Sorin statue on South quad whcn he was ap­proadlt:d t,y a man wanting H programs and gi\·ing a S20 dollar hill for hi~ {)a\'nll'nl '\urnri,t·d h\' this large request. :vrc:vrongle began to analyze the bill later. discovering that it was smaller that other S20 dollar bills, and inconsistent in its combination of its city origin (Kansas City) and its Federal Reserve numbt•r. :vrcMongle and an­
other  student.  Phyllis  Tralka,  
brought  the  bill  to  Security, who  
confirmed  that  their  suspicions  

wert: correct. Anyone who thinks that they may have a bill such as this one is asked to bring it to Security as well. 
Holy Cross Hall appt:ars to have been the greatest victim of thefts occuring during the Irish victory Saturday, reporting st:veral cases involving tht: loss of watches. belts, class rings. tk clasps anu nt•t'k chains betwt:en I I :00 a.m. and 4:.30 p.m. Three rooms wc're vandalizt:d. and six pt·ople victimized by these rob­bt:ries. A man dcscrihed as "i'8, 140 

Ibs. with blond hair and mustache 
carrying a back pack was seen near 
the vicinity during this time. and ·security is now investigating his whereabouts. 
Fr. Jerry Wilson was also the vic­
tim of a robbery over the weekend 
involving the loss ofa brown. zipper­
topped toiletry case containing an 
electric razor and a homily which Fr. 
Wilson had hoped to give at St. Joseph's Parish on Sunday. This inci­dent occurred somewhere in the vicinitv of the .'\<loreau Seminan· and the G~otto. and any assistan~·e in finding this case would bt: greatly appreciated. 
In addition to these various inci­dents. religious groups appeared on campus this weekend. making lengthy stops in both Flannt:r and Holy Cross halls. As a result. Sentrity served notices. asking them to kaw·. shortly after their arrival. 
2128 

PHONE 

AVENUE 277-3611 


Hamm's 24 cans.................. $5.99 
Castillo Rum 1 Liter. .................. .$5. 79 

Kamchatka Vodka 1 Liter. ................... $4.81 
Barclays Bourbon 1 Liter. ...,............... $5.99 
Calvert's Extra Soft Whiskey 750 mi.................. $4.99 
Pabst Blue Ribbon 1 case of Qts•.......$8.49 

ANNOUNCING ... 
Travel Services Now on the Campus of St. Mary's College 
• 
Computerized Airline Reservations 

• 
Amtrak Tickets 

• 
Bus/Limo Tickets to Chicago 


an 
SURDAY MASSIIS AT SACBIID BIJAB'.r
• Tours and Cruises 
CHURCH
• Group Travel Services 
Masses are for Sunday, September 20 
(219) 284-5606 
5:15 PM Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C.
~source
=St. Mary's 
9:00 AM Sunday Rev. David E. Schlaver, C.S.C.


-.Travel
LeMans Hall--Lower Level 
10:30 AM Sunday Rev. Niels Rasmussen, OP 
Notre Dame Travel Office Located in Badin Hall 
12:15 PM Sunday Rev. David E. Schlaver, C.S.C. 
(219) 236-2374 

7:15 PM Vespers Rev. Niels Rasmussen, OP 

1511 PortaKe Rd. A 232-9223 

MORRISCIVICAUDJTORJUM 
FRIDAY·SEPTEMBER25 8:00P.M. 
JACK ANDERSON-LAST YEAR YOU 
HEARD HIS DYNAMIC ASSESSMENT OF THE CARTER ADMINISTRATION; THIS YEAR, THE FIR'ST YEAR OF THE 
REAGAN ADMINISTRATION 
JACK ANDERSON-PULITZER PRIZE· WINNING INVESTIGATIVE REPORTER AND SYNDICATED COLUMNIST. 
JACK ANDERSON -WASHINGTON BUREAU CHIEF OF PARADE MAGA· ZINE. AND DAILY COMMENTATOR ON ABC-TV'S "GOOD MORNING AMERICA" 


ALL SEATS RESERVED·$10.00/$8.00/$7:00 ON SALE STARTING SEPTEMBER 8, AT T11E CENTURY CENTEP BOX OFFICE. S B • ELKHART TRUTH READER'S SERVICE FIRST 
NATIONAL BANK. ROBERTSON S JUDD DRUG STORES. ELKHART • JUDD DRUG STORES GOSHEN • GALLERY 100. MISHAWAKA. • ORDER BY MAIL THE GREAT AMERICAN FORUM. P 0 BOX 1812. ElKHART, IN 46515-1812 • 
~" '-\,~J~v
i cv ·~, FORUM 
: sco T COUP
! STUDENT 01 UN ON
i THIS COUPON ENTITLES BEARER TO A TWOI$21 ! DOLLAR DISCOUNT PER TICKET !FOR A MAXIMUM
i~; ;~~~~~~~~~T;ic~~~~=~~~c~~~~2KT~~~EET: 
! SON GREAT AMERICA-N FORUM. FRIDAY. SEPTEM­! BER 25. AT THE MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM NO ! CASH VALUE COUPON AND STUDENT I.D MUST ~BE PRESENTEDATTrMEOF PURCHASE 
VOID AFTER SEPTEMBER 25. 1981 
............................... 
ORDER BY TELEPHONE CHARG-A-TIK 295-6254 

MASTERCARD OR VISA ACCEPTED VISAJMASTERCAR~ 
SPICER PIZZA 

uFeaturin!( Eastern S(yle Subs" Complete Deli Sandwich Line 
Expires 

oJ 
"­

$1.00 off an_y lar!(e pizza with this coupon Open 7da_ys • Open for lunch 
Mon.thru Thurs. 10:30 a.m. to 10:30 p.m. Fri. & Sat. till 1:00 Sun. 4:30 to 10:30 Just 3 minutes from Campus 

The Observer Friday, September 18, 1981 -page 4 
Below are }ust a few examples of the fantastic deals awaitin!( _you! 
~----~----­




CHARGE IT! 821 W. McKinle_y Just bring your VISA, Master· Mishawaka, IN 
Card. or American Express­Playbac.k ~akes it easy for you ( Colleue Square)
to have 1t nght now! <"'> 
-------.phone: 256-1514 
Sat. 10 AM-6 PM closed Sunda_y 
PORTABLES 


Sanyo 9925A AM/FM/Cass. 
player-recorder $157 
Stereo-Mate ED-101 Personal portable stereo cassette playerwith headphones $88 

-CASSETTE TAPES 
~~ 

'~t~~ 

Maxell UD-C90 2 pak with free storage case $6.88 TDK MA-C90 metal tape "state of the art" $7.88 each 


--AUTOMOTIVE 






~-~] 
San yo FT-C4 AM/FM/Cass 
mini-chassis $88 Clarion SK-103 6x9 3-way speaker save$ $60 now $115 
--HEADPHONES 
$KEN\NOOD 
®PIONEER~i 

Pioneer SE-550 Dynamic Range $37 Project/one ST -300 dual elements $44 

Ir--~-'--"------·V atuable ~oupon! I 
1 Bring in this coupon, or your I 1 N.D-L.s.u. ticket stub & get a I 1 TDK Head cleaner for only 
I 


I 96<1: 

p:_:_; ~~1..,-.IL:""l ::::J 0 · 
.,., C.o boo <'oo coo 
~Cerwin-VeiJa! 
.f) SANYO Hurry, Sale ends Sept. 18 


1'he Observer Friday, September 18, 1981 -page 5 
Liquor prohibited 

University permits use of Stepan 

By MARK ROLFES 
News Staff 
Contrary to earlier reports. all Stu­dent llnion events in Stepan Center have not been permanently can­celkd due to reports of alcohol abuse from last week's Polish Wed­ding. 
Dean of Students james Roemer and Director of Student Activities James McDo;mell recently sent let­ters to Student Union Director Bill Lawler complaining ofalcohol abuse at the Polish Wedding and issuing new guidelines for Stepan Center events. Student Union events in Stepan havt· not. however. been per­manentlY cancelled. 
One <;f the major complaints was the advertising for the Polish Wed­ding which featured a beer can and an invitation to "BYOB". This is a violation of Du Lac regulations prohibiting the promotion of al­cohol on campus. Another com-
Campus housing lottery unlikely this Spring 
By DAVID GUFFEY News Staff 
A junior class housin~ lot­tery is not likely thts year, according to Notre Dame housing officials. 
Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. John Van Wolvlear said that he is ''90 percent sure there will be no need for a housing lottery'' in the spring of 1982. This year there are "1114 seniors, the largest 
group ever, (as well as) 1565 juniors living on campus.'' 
According to Fr. Van Wolv­lear, enough spac_e should be created by graduatiOn to accom­odate those juniors who wish to stay on campus assuming that 
, , , Board 

continued from p. 1 
almost 90 percent of whom live in Campus View Apartments. 
She has made ten members of her twelve-member board resp­onsible for three apartments each in the complex. The members must distnbute man­uals, assorted newsletters, and become familiar with the girls in the apartments. Other mem­bers take care of those not in Campus View. 
Because of the high .Percent­age of off-campus restdents in security-patrolled Campus View, cnme has not been the major concern as it has been with Notre Dame. Engler said, however, that a security work­shoJ? is in the works. 
Thts is the first year for Saint Mary's to have such an or~anization, and the 0-C Com­mtssioner position is onlv two years itself, so Engler has her hands full. She is looking for innovative ideas to capture the ~mention of those ltving off campus. 
''People who move off campus are looking for something dif­ferent," according to Ens.ler. "So instead of having a tadgat­the same number of students voluntarily move off campus this spring as in previous years. 
Notre Dame Director of Hous­ing Fr. Michael Heppen declin­ed to comment on the chances of a lottery until he could further study new housing stat­istics. However, he pointed out that there has not been a need for a lottery since 1973 when women were first housed at Notre Dame. 
"On this basis," said Heppen, "the chances of a lottery seem slim." 
Final word on any lottery will not come until after housing contracts are signed early next semester. 
plaint was that "most students brought alcohm into Stepan" and that "numerous reports of drunken­ness and illness were recieved as a result of the Polish Wedding." 
Lawler has taken responsibility for the BYOB advertising. saying that it was the result of poor communica­tion with the new Student Union Publicity chairman during the first week of school when the posters were printed. Lawler. however. feels that students attending the Polish Wedding did not get out ofhand and that they stayed under control. "The entire damage was one broken chair." 
Lawler said that the Student Union will still be able to use Stepan and that plans for more movies, the SU Country Rock _lam and a possible George Thorogood concert are being made. 
The Roemer and McDonnell 
directives provide for stricter en­
forcement of the rules prohibiting 
alcohol in Stepan. All advertise­
ments must now clearly state that al­
cohol is forbidden in Stepan. Also. 
any violators will be evicted and the 
alcohol confiscated. Lawler pledged 
to make a greater effort for Stepan 
events to follow the DuLac regula­
tions. 
These directives seem to be an­
other part of the administration's 
recent campaign against alcohol 
abuse. McDonnell stressed a need 
for "creative promotions which 
stress good times, good people, and 
good fun without offering alcohol as 
an enticement." 

By GIG! GOLITZ 
News staff 
Off-campus student Bill Christopher is combating crime by informing students to take special cautions in their neigh­borhoods by way of a 24-hour hotline service. 
Christopher is provtdmg the students with a hotline number to call if they need any infor­
mation about preventing crime 
in  their  area.  He  has  told  
students  where  to  purchase  
additional  locks  for  windows  

and doors and will try to assist 
• • • Reagan 
continued from p. 1 

well between the United States and each of its continental­neighbors. 
The Reagan-Trudeau meeting follows a blunt session at the State Department a week ago as Americans renewed their complaints about Canada's energy policy and outlined possible retaliatory measures. 
The U.S. official said that in addition to the energY: question, likely, Issues m­cluded Canadian concern over "acid rain," air pollution that originates in the United States and is carried northward, and the U.S. canadian pipeline being built to carry natural gas from Alaska to the lower 48 states. 
U.S. officials anticipated that the Lopez Portillo session would touch on a joint Mexican-French initiative re­cognizing the rebels in El Salvador as a legitimate pol­itical force. 
The U.S. official who briefed reporters said the French and Mexicans already have been told that "the United States didn't consider this to be helpful." 

London Semester Program August 29­
December 1 5, -1982 
Research in Comparative Economic Policy-4 credits 
• British Political Economy-4 credits • British National Politics-4 credits • Britain &. America: Comparative Cultures-4 credits 
Live with a British family, meet members of parliament and prominent political and economic analysts. Classes are taught by U.S. and foreign faculty utilizing classrooms at the University of London. To Apply: Division of International Programs, The American University, International Programs Building, Washington. DC 20016, 212/686-7527 
The American University is an equal opportunity/affirmative action university 
them as much as J?OSsible _ 
Christopher satd the first thing to do after a robbery is to call the police_ He said that he feels the South Bend police are cooperating with the students and plans to organize a meeting of students and the police department. 
Many students are not aware of the hotline, according to Christopher. Christopher expressed hope that students will take advantage of this service by calling 227-6178 for assistance. 
er before the game, we had ours after the game on Green Field, and it was a tremendous success.'' . 
Other events scheduled in conjunction with the ND Off., Campus Commission include the Monday Night Football parties at Irish Country and Wednesday off-campus nights at a local tavern. 
The SMC 0-C Board already has plans for their major event, a semi-formal Christmas cock­tail party tentatively scheduled at Ttppecanoe Place for Decem­ber 3. 

'Social Concerns Film Series 

---·Hospital 
September 18 & 19 Washington Hall 7, 9: 30 pm admission 50~ 

War Without Winners ....... 
September 22, 23, & 24 La Fortune Little Theater 12 noon admission--Free 
••-•Breaker Morant-___.. 
September 22,23', & 24 Engineering Auditorium and September 25 & 26 
Annenberg Auditorium 7, 9 : 30 pm (all showings) ·admission 50¢ 
-~~----~-~­
Features 
Friday, September 18 -page 6 
Whatever Happened to Confession? 

Whatever happened to confes­sion? It used to be such a nice Saturday night sacrament. The priest used to leave the confessional at 9 p.m., feeling very satisfied with himself for all the souls he had polished with grace. He would go back to the rectory to listen r'1 Gun smoke and Lawrence Welk. People all over the city, he would think, would be goin~ to communion the next mormng 
because  he  had  given  them  
absolution.  
Confessions are  not as  much  

fun anymore. People don't come nearly as often, and when they do come, they're not sure what to confess. Lists of sins like grocery or laundry lists are out, priests have told them, because such lists are too dull to be helpful, though surely, in such a sacrament, it is God's grace, and not man's failure, that is supposed to be interest­ing. Mortal sins among practic­ing Catholics are as rare as halos, we are told rightly. Whether mortal, or not--a sin 10 its observable consequences can be serious and destructive, and it can lead the way to spiritual death. Confession is a way of mercy instituted by the Church for getting God's kind attention when purely personal efforts seemed to have failed. 
I'm not sure what to make of some confessions. A young woman says: ''My family has a great deal of money. We spent the summer travelling in Eur­ope. We saw old people and children on the streets, begging for food, and I refused to look at them." "Are you sorry," I say, "Be­cause you didn't try to help them?'' "I could never help them," she says, "because there were so many. I was embarassed in front of them, because I must have seemed so rich, while none of them have anything. I hated being a rich American, though it is not really my fault, is it, if my father has money?" 
She is no Mother Teresa, and I am no Cure of Ars, leading her to discern the faults that could underlie her embarassment. Money, in my family, was never so plentiful that we had to apologize for having it. A poor 
Fr, Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
priest makes a poor counselor in relieving the embarassment an American feels for being rich. 
"Honey," I wanted to say , ''the chances are that you are a highly sensitive youn~ lady, unused to the suffenngs of hungry and hopeless people who could spoil your enjoyment of a European holiday. Perhaps also, you are very spoiled and a little selfish, and you were angry at your first exposure to the world's sorrow. In honesty, ry to tell me as your confessor why you think you avoided seeing the faces of children begging for something to eat?" It would have sounded too personal, as though I were accusing her of sin, so I didn't say it. Some Catholics, it seems to me, confess only communal guilt shared with the world; they have no sense of themsel­ves as participants in evil personal to themselves. That is what makes me nervous about group reconcilation services.$ I do not like to use the word sin. Sin is not a word that I use easily as a confessor. A student tells me: "I spent a weekend on the Cape. We went crazy with beer and dope and _{>ills, and we did a lot of crazy dnving around the beaches in a jeep. Is that a 
. ~',
sm. 

I answerD "If we made dope a sacrament, would it have made you less crazy?'' 
I cannot begin a conversation or a confessiOn with the adv­ance judgment that some poor fool has committed serious sin, though some actions, clearly, are completely offensive. I pre­fer to look at the action, and how hurtful it has been to him and to others, and then ask: "How can it not be a sin?" 
Confession, as I understand it, is a sacrament of homecoming. It is the gentlest and surest way of returning to the Father's house. I say this not only as a priest who hears confessions, but also as a Catholic who sometimes needs it. 
In the Eye,of the Beholder 
The Miss America Pageant is one of those things that inter­ests me against my better judgment. It's a silly, commer~­ial event and probably not 10 the best interests of women. 
The producers of the contest, a moneymaking venture, have had the good sense to try to keep its reputation and the reputations of the girl contes­tants pristine. There's no fool­ing arotlnd there in Atlantic City. 
The trouble with the contest now is that what interests most men, against their better judgment, is the pretty girls. The organizers are pretending the girls are more than that, but even smart men aren't interest­ed in whether the Miss America contestants are smart or not. The producers have gone to great lengths to make it some­thing other than a bathing beauty contest and that's where they've gone wrong. That's all it ought to be. If we're going to have a Miss America contest, bring them all out in bathing suits and let's decide which one is best looking. Let's knock it off with the piano playing and the poetry recitations. Beauty may only be skin-deep but that's deep enought for a night's entertainment on television. 
While I enjoy looking at a few minutes of the Miss America show to try and decide for myself which among them is beautiful and which homely, I wouldn't want to spend much time with any one of them. If a woman has a good face and ag reat body, she's bound to know about it and she has a right to enjoy displaying a certain am­ount of what she's got. 
I don't find it offensive when a 
well-built woman wears a 

low-cut evening gown at a party 
but I think it's dumb for any 
woman to stand on a stage 
while judges look her up and 
down and check her over as 
though she were a poodle at a 
do~ show. I mean, if they're 
go10g to do this right, she ought 
to take her clothes off--all in a 
very proper manner and under 
close supervision, of course. 

I suspect this feeling I have them very pretty. I can walk down the street in New York any lunchtime during the week and see five girls on e-very block who look prettier than the winner, let alone the losers. If! were gong to hav~ a beauty contest for women, I'd get up early in the morning and look for the girls jogging in the parks. Many of them look better m baggy sweat suits than the Miss America contestants look in sleek evening gowns. The joggers have no makeup and thetr hair is flying but they have a natural kind of beauty about them that couldn't be judged in a contest. 
Andy Rooney 

thousand other things in a normal, natural, everyday sort of way. They don't enter Miss America contests. The prettiest college girls are studying or they're in class or they're out with the guys. They aren't standing on a stage saying, "Look at me!" 
There's a proven and practical value in being objective and 

The producers of the Miss America contest are _probably luck that so many of us find some of the girls unattractive because, aside from how bad most of the contestants perform their little act, picking out the homely ones is a big part of the fun of watching. Does someone really think all those girls are beautiful? Ifso, their opinion of b~auty differs sharply from mme. 
I'm more inclined to believe that they were only the best­looking girls they could get to enter the contest and that the prettiest women, the real Miss Americas, are the ones doing a applying numbers to a lot of things, but attempts to pin down something like what's funny or what's pretty have always failed. There's just no way to put a number on some things. Picking the most beauti­ful girl from a lineup is like being asked to tell the funniest joke you ever heard. It dep­ends, for one thing, on who you're telling it to. 
I guess it'a good thing there's such wide disagreement on what's beautiful because, by Miss America standards, most people don't have much of it. 
Chi. Trib-NY News Syndicate 
about the contestants accounts ;:::==::::::::::====~========:;-=~~=======~ fot why I don't find many of 
Shakespearefestival 
;;;.~;!~ a!?m;;;;h~~~~~~·~=~o:: ;!=:;: begins on Monday 
Directed by Ronald Meame 
Wn'tten by Jerome Lawrence and Robert E. Lee Town & Country Theatre 
I've come to the decision that it is immoral to write this review. Writing requires a strict discipline and one of its cardinal s10s is the abuse of language--the word is too precious to be wasted. After seeing ''First Monday In Octo­ber,'' after seeing a total disre­gard for aesthettc sensibility, after seeing this inane puddle of cinematic dribble, I'd rather stick a finger down my throat than have to waste words on such a farce. 
''First Monday'' was already in the can, but Paramount rush released it when the nomination of Sandra O'Connor was anno­unced over the summer. And seeing a way to make a quick buck off ofcurrent events, thjey I'm concerned, they should never have let those two out of their padded cells, for their idea of a script is grounds for insanity. The "action" of the movie is nothing but a mean­dering of verbal quips between Walter Matthau and Jill Clay­burgh with footage o( the steps of the Supreme Court and bland patriotic music thrown in to complete the monotony. The scriptwriters' dog must have eaten the plot line because I couldn't find it on the screen. There isn't even a beginning, middle, or end to the movie-­only 90 minutes ·of unrelated and unintelligible boredom. 
If director Ronald Meame knew what he was doing, the film might have been salvaged. However, sloppy editing (or no editing at all), dull shots, and no sense of comic timin~, leads the film in the direction the script does--to the garbage. 
Movies 
iiiiiiiiii!iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii!iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
I feel sorry for Walter Mat­thau. Beneath the trash of Neil Simon, "Bad News Bears," and Lawrence and Lee, there exists a respectable actor. As "First Monday" is nothing but a poor ''Barefoot in the Su­preme Court,'' Matthau has been cursed with poor dialogue, a sterile character, and poor fellow actors. The only mom­ents when he shines, thus the only moments when the film shines, are when he doesn't say anything. For it is only at that time that he can use the creativity of his talents. As for Jill Clayburgh, I plead the Fifth. She is about as dramati; as a bowl of]ello and I wouldn t 1 1 cast her as an understudy for a piece ofshrubbery much less as a Supreme Court Justice. 
The Shakespeare Film Festi­
val, featuring six famous Shak­
espearean plays, opens this 
Monday with Laurence Olivi­
er's version of Henry V. The 
festival, which runs through 
Nov. 16, features a different 
Shakespearean classic one day 
a week for six successive 
weeks. A brief introduction by 
Profs. Paul Rathburn and James Robinson will precede the 7 and 10 p.m. showtimes, and a one dollar admission fee will be charged. 
Although the film lilne-up corresponds to classes in Sha­kespeare being taught by Robinson and Rathburn, the general public is welcome and encouraged to attend. "Sha­kespeare is simply a magnifi­cent playwright. He's universa­lly popular, entertaining, and challenging--most anyone can appreciate his works/' said Robinson. 
Monday's showing of Henry V and King Lear, to be shown on Nov. 16, correspond to Prof. Rathburn's Shakespeare course currently in progress. The remaining films--A Mzdsum­mer Night's Dream (Oct. 7), Hamlet (Oct. 14), and Macbeth (Oct. 28)--complement Prof. Robinson's minicourse entitled "Shakespeare's Theatre of Spirit'' which runs from Sept. 28 to Nov. 6. Rathburn's two films will each be shown in the Engineering Auditorium, whe­reas Robinson's will appear in the new Annenberg Auditori­um, located in the Snite Muse­um. 
Robinson emphasizes the com­bination of superb production and acting in each of these plays. The films boast produc­ing greats such as Franco Zeffirelli, Roman Polanski, and Laurence Olivier. 
j 

Friday, September 18, 1981 -page 7
Editorials 
One female appointment a start--but not enough 
WASHINGTON 1 Women Traditionally, senators on the the legal world when President across America should take a mjority party have suggested Carter boosted the number of Maxwell Glen moment this week to cele­candidates from their states for women in the district courts from brate the Senate's confirm­federal judgeships to fill nation-three to 44 during his tenure. 
Cody Shearer
ation of Sandra Day 0' Nevertheless, 75 percent of dis­Connor to the Supreme federal judgeships. These names trict judges are still male, and the Court. Appointments of are screened by the Justice ratio is even higher for the Circuit 
women to the federal Department under guidlines Appeals courts. 
judiciary aren issued by the White House. 
maiotammg the male-dominated t likely to be a recurring According to Justice Depart­We can't have it both ways, judiciary in America.
feature of the Reagan ad­ment insiders, the new adminis­fellas. The path to judicial ex­We worry that White House
ministration. tration has changes President chief of staff James Baker andperience begins with an appoint­Though the president has Carter's guidelines. 
ment or elected position. If we counselor Edwin Meese, who had made history by nom­"There's no pressure on meet weekly to discuss judicialwant both qualified and well­
inating the 51 yhear-pold senators from the top to submit appointments, believe one woman rounded judges, we need guide­Arizonan as the first names of women or minorities for lines that take diversity into on the High Court is worth 40 in woman to ilie district judgeships,'' said Kathy 
consideration. lower posts. 
High Court, he's now Wilson, who chairs the National Yet Sandra O'Connor's SenateThe second step is for womenunder far greater pressure Women's Political Caucus. "The to take the initiative. Now that confirmation doesn't let the to anoint those of his tourniquet that was applied by Reagan administration off thethey comprise 13 percent of the own persuasion and sex. the Caner administration is no lawyers 10 the United States, hook. Her appointment may be Among other radical longer being used.'' 
more women should be seeking one way to appease Women's changes in its first nine The president seems interested groups, but it's not enou~h tolocal judicial poaitions. Withoutmonths, the Reagan admin­only in those /eople who ·are 
good local talent, senators and build a strong and equitableistration has reshuffled usually selecte for the federal the president can be excused for judiciary.
the way federal judges are judiciary: prominent lawyers, selected. Reagan has state-level judges and law profes­muted the importancegiven to sors. Almost all of these people women and minority appoint­are male. ments during the Carter years. Reagan's preference for ex­
It's almost as if the Reagan perience makes sense. But his staff took literally the new movie administration isn't ~iving "First Monday in October." women the chance to gam the Their actions echo the sentiments experience on which promotions of actor Walter Matthau who. as are made. 
Not surprisingly, the cheif criti­a feisty liberal justice, dis(>lays • cism leveled by legal scholars athis distaste that a woman IS on Mrs. O'Connor is that she "lacks_r~e berv, ~ by telling a law clerk, 
the experience'' needed for the "It's eight of us against all of Supreme Court. her." "Her professional experience 
So far, of the 12 new federal to date has not been as extensive district and circuit judges nomin­or challenging as that of some ated by Reagan, all are male; other persons who might be none are black or Hispanic. There available for appointment to the are, of course, still about 60 Supreme Court,'' noted the judgeships to fill nationwide. But American Bar Association in their 
NF

we're not staying up nights endorsement of Mrs. O'Connor waiting for women to get the nod. last week. Here's why: Similar criticisms were aired by 
Reaganomics the remedy to Great Society damage 
During the 1960s, leaders of dollars were spent, from 40 to of blacks relative to whites has syndicated, was describing various groups which claimed more than 100. A review of the declined since 1965. Unem­the problems involved in pub­Andrew Cochran to represent the poor demand­spending habits of several ployment rates among blacks lic housing in a re.5=ent column ed that the federal govern­Great Society programs leaves of all ages, which were equal entitled "Why Public Housing ment actively aid the poor little doubt that the past four to those of whites in the Fails," but he could have been throu~h increased federal administrations have done mid-1950s, has increased stea­descriing the evolution of the 
success through massive tax
spendmg. They claimed that their best to help the poor in dily relative to whites and is economic slavery when he increases and costly regula­the poor were entitled to a this way. now double the overall unem­wrote the following: tions. Economic growth vir­minimum quality of health Since 1965, expenditu"res for ployment rate. ''The system is geared to tually ceased. 
care, education, nourishment food stamps have increased Also, the median income of reward failure. You have to The best way to he!(> the
and housing, and that only the from $33 million (to help black families actually de­~et an economic failure to get poor it to greate a b1ggerfederal government could 400,000 people) to over $10 clined, rl!lative to white fami­ln. ­economic pie for all to share,The system offers no rewardguarantee that minimum. Pro­billion (to help over 20 mil­lies, during the 1970s. The and not just keep trying to cutfessional politicians heard the lion). Medicaid spending has budget deficits that Keynes­for self-pride or self-help; it up the same pie. The Reaganextracts no penalty for abuse.
demands and, using Keynes­risen from $770 million to over ians argued would stimulate 
administration's economic
It requires only the most
ian economic theories of $14 billion in 1980. the economy were translated, plan of budget cuts, tax cuts,elementary knowledge of rein­demand management, What do the social engi­throu~h loose monetary policy deregulation and monetaryforcement theory to under­pumped billions of dollars into neers of the rear Society have into h1gh rates of inflation that 
restraint are designed to
stand that rewarding nega­
the economy, attempting to to show for their efforts? I have had a debilitating effect create a bigger pie by reward­help the poor and improve the don't believe a serious case on the poor. tives produces negatives." 
ing success, reducing the
The last sentence contains
overall economy. can be made for the proposi­The economic statistics 
the key to the plight of the Lyndon Johnson increased programs have improved the story. The social programs poor and implies the solution. in~ financial capital to the the number of social pro­economy or the condition of have made economic slaves of Just as rewarding negatives pnvate sector with which to 
The "Grear Society" of tion that the Great Society don't tell the worst of the rewards for failure, and supply­
produces negatives, reward­
e:rams, through which the the poor. The economic status the poor. Federal bureaucrats create jobs. are the masters and the pro­mg positives produces posi­It will work if given time. grams are the chains. The tives. Applied to economics. What will not work is a revers­
A note 
poor, much like other enslaved rewarding positives means al­ion to the Great Society. Growth 
Careful readers of The Observer may have noticed classes, have partially full lowing those who accumulate and the creation of wealthvariations in typestyles from issue to issue (and in some bellies, dulled minds and wealth without fraud, deceit or cannot occur in such a hostilecases from page to page) this semester. we have had empty spirits. They have little similar tactics to keep most of political climate. Without econ­mechanical problems with our computer typesetting or no faith in their future. it. During the past decade the omic growth, today's poor will Iequipment. we expect the situation to be remedied in short William Raspberry, a black federal government confis­be permanently entrenched inorder. We regret any confusion these inconsistencies may 
the1r condition. 
columnist who is nationally cated wealth and punishedhave caused. 
'SAN"fJRA O'CONNOR J()W PLEA'D You TO/HE HEINM CAARt;f OF SECULAR 'WJM#JISM ?1 

Editorial Bq3ra o.'lU Department Managers 
Fditor-in-Chief.. John .\1c(;rath SMC Fxecutive /!ditor ..................... Mary Agnes Carey
Manaxing Editor... .. . .... Torn ja<.:kman SMC News Editor ............................... Cathy Domamco Tl1e Uhserz•er is an independent nt'\\-.papn puhlr-.hcd h\ rlw "rudcnr" •II rill" Photo Editor...... . . ................................... .john Man>r
Executive Neu•s Editor .. Lynne Daley L'n1verslt\" of :--.:orre Dame duLac and ~aJnl \!an·.., ( Plkgc lr dut·" !l<lt nnc..,..,;trrl\ .Veu•s Editor... . .......................... .Tim Verccllotti 
rdlecr th~ policies of the admrnrstratt\111 pf <·rrhn rn..,rltUtlll!l lh<" nn'" '" rcp .. rrcd Neu•s Editor ............................................. Kelli Flint Business Manag..r .......... Ri<.:h Coppola as accuratclv and as ohielti\Tiv a" po..,-.rhk 1-:drt••rral" rcprc,(·nr rhc t~prnr"n 11! ,r Senior Copy Fditor .. . .... \1ary Fran Callahan Controller............. ... ....... .joe Multlur .\ports Editor ..................................\1i<.:hacl On man Advertisi,zg Manaxer .... . ·.Mark Ellis 
rnajorrtv of the Edrtorial Board. Comm('ntart('~. tlf11111"11". ,111d ktrct" arc the \ rn\" 
Features Editor. ............Anthony Walton Production Managt'r.... ...... Mkhad Monk
,>f their author". CPiurnn space is avadahle to all rncmhn" ,,f rlw ltlflllllU!llt\. ;tnd 
Circulation Manager ........................Tom Mad.cnnan ..::: 
~he free expressiOn ofvarving opinrnn-. onLampu". rhr<1ugh krrn". '" t"lll<•ur.rgcd 

------·--·---------------. 

Eagles win battle of unbeatens 
Ron Jaworski pierced Buffalo's previously invulnerable defense with a pair of touchdown passes to lead the NFC Champion Philadelphia Eagles to a hard-fought 20-14 victory over the Bills last night in Buffalo. Jaworski fired touchdown strikes to tight end Keith Krepfle and wide receiver Harold Carmichael, and kicker Tony Franklin added field goals of 29 and 44 yards to help the Eagles' cause. With Philadelphia leading 17-14 tn the fourth quarter, Bills kicker Nick Mike-Mayer, a former Eagle missed a chip-shot 20-yard field goal attempt that would have tied the game. From theie, the Eagles, now 3-0, added some insurance points and the defense did the rest. Buffalo fell to 2-1. 
Decision near in Celtic suit 
A San Antonio jury released last night after 45 minutes of deliberation in the trial of an $825,000 damage suit filed by a Spurs fan against the Boston Celtics and two players. Johnny Me ria, 27, a truck driver and a member of the Spurs' Baseline Bums organization, alleged that all-star forward Larry Bird and former Celtic Dave Cowens spat on him and that Bird knocked him to the ground with a duffle bag. A decision is expected today. 
Notre Dame 
cu Credit Union 
''Checking'' 
share-draft accounts 
regular hours. monday-friday 8:30-5:00 closed weekends closed Labor Day 
most convenient location no service charge 
SKIP 
NOV. 19th. 
On November 19, we'd like you to stop smoking cigarettes for 24 hours. It's worth a try. Because if you can skip cigarettes for a day, you might discover you can skip 'em forever. 
THE GREAT AMERICAN SMOKEOUT 
American Cancer Society+.. 
Thts space contnbuted by the publisher. 





-------·----·---------------------------, 
.\1! -:il.S.Sdtr•·.1 acts :'Tl. 1s• t'.'O' rf!·:~•\leO t-~·o~ d >l.S om twn 0a'-S Dnv• to the 
•s.,,,.,. '" w.,,c, t~->•• .,, ·c; run The Observer olftce will acceo: ci:tss•',t>ds 
\~('f'fl_;~ 'I"H( 1tlq'l ~ro1"''· 10 1)0, ! m tO 5·0Q p m ~\il c!aSSti't"d'i 'TtUS! be
Classifieds 
:1 • -D•I'•I ''' !H~r I'"' :l~'rS()'l (·,r :hr(llJpl-, ~he r:"'ctl: 
Neir NO, fum. Kitchenette 
Need 2-4 GA tix for all horre
Need football tlx? I do! I need SOCIAL CONCERNS FILMApt., Utlls. 272-6174 football gCII'TI!S. Call Art at
NOTICES USC Cl'1d R!nn St. Tlx Cl'1d ern Silldy S. Stone, Anxiously SERIES--Sept. 15-26 willing to buy, sell or trade my 1593 awaiting Oct. 8. I LOVE Cl'1d
One bdnn apt., fum., reason­
Used book shop. Hours Wed. other tix to get them. Will deal MISS 'roU. Da1 Social Cona!r11s Aim Series
able reut, call 287-5361 after 6 Desperately needed! 4 GAs toSat. Sun. 9-7. CASPERSON, 
in cash also. Call Larry HOSPITAL
USC. fllv:Jney is no object. Bob
1303 Buchmm Rd. Niles p.m 277-3306 Sept. 18 & 19 --7, 9:30p.m
234-0418 

Social Cona!r11s Aim Series Washington Hall IM~VE 'roUR GRADES! Desperately need 2 or 3 GAs WAR WITHOUT WINNERS Admission so cents
WANTED Willted: mien tix GAs Cl'1d
IEseard1 catalog --306 pages for FSU Will pay BIG bucks. 
Lafortune Uttle Theatre --Sept
STUs. Call 289-1127
--10,278 topics--~ Sl. Box Call Tom 8531 or 8529 
22, 23 & 24 Hi~. ~lsgrem.
HELP! Need GA k for Mich25097C Los Angeles 90025. 
llbon --Free Admission Berkiee is a paradise; no math,
NEED EXTRA INCOME? 00 ST. garre. Call Marimne 277­(213) 477-8226 
YOU LIKE SALES? 00 'roU DAD is WALKING from Taro­1099 no dlem. no acx::t or phil, only HAVE YOUR OWN CAR? If rna, Washington for USC garre Social Cona!FTls Aim Series rrusic. Anyhow, If )'OU Willt aCILA ORIENTATION WEEK+ Must get 2 tix! He has already BREAKER MORANT ropy of my 1st album IM"ite to
so, )'OU muld becorre a sales­Need GA tix to my horreEND!!! This v.eekend, Sept. 
started walking! Call Bill at Sept. 22, 23, 24 --7, 9:30p.m rre: Luis Alvarez, 52 WestiCI'ld
nm selling mi01XDrrputers football garre. Call Cathy 277­
18-20, at Beautiful Carrp Tam­1678, or Paul at 1670
Clld related software progri!IT6 2244 Engineering auditorium Ave., Apt 11, Boston, Mais.
crack.. For rmre info or regis­

in the Midlima crea. Hours $1 Admission 02115. Have a good serrester
tration, stop by Volunteer Ser­I desperately need 4 GAs md 2 Navy tix 1 or 2 GAs Mien St 1 md take cere of the D>rre!
vices office at 1.5 LaFortune. a-e flexible to fit your sche­Student lixto Mien St. Garre. Begorra!! I need lots o' tix for GA or STU, Desperately need P.S. Miss you all!!dule. Work W"ten )'Ou have the Aa ST! Will pay a pot o' gold!
ll:ln't miss it. A good tirre is Call 1171
tirre. Call Cart l.a"sson at Ring rre at 8580 Now!! NAVY tix right away!! Call 
gucrmteed. 
233-9922 for rrore lnfonration. Mike 8854 Help!! IT's THAT TIME AGAIN... 
Michigm ticket for sale. Great Midligm ... Dead! T!rre for the Top 20 T!rre
I need 2 GA Midligm State
NO under QUARANTINE seat, call .loa1 at 6553 Tunnel with Tim Neely, Sun­
TAX ACCOUNTANTS, T!x!! Will pay $$$ Call Jim
it's m 

ACCOUNTING MAJORS!! Midligm . . . DEAD! day night at 7 p. m on WSNO.
4642
EPIDEMIC!!!! 

Desperately need tw:> FSU Cl'1d
Need extra inmrre? Would you Am64! like to v..ork a muple of hours a tw:> USC TIX! fllv:Jney is no Will trade 1 FSU GA for 2 Navy Midligm ... DEAD! This v.eek: The top 20 for the
TYPING! Fast, acnJrate typing 

v.eek md earn good rroney. object! Call Steve 8265 GAs. Aease call Tom 1865 third v.eek of Septerrber 1968at reasonable rates. If )'OU need 
FRESHMAN GUYS: sorrething in a hurry, I CCf'1 Tickets WCI'lted So Cal., Call OOGBOOKS ARE OUT Aretha Frmkiin, md rrore ... 
Call Cart L.a-sson at 233-9922 featuring songs by The Beatles 
for rrore infonration. Need USC tix, one stu md one
type It for )'OU. No job too big Rlii 9 a.m-5 p.m. Pay$$$ 
GA
or small. Close to carpus. Call 

UNIVERSITY CLUB has open­Ack this year's 10 best looking Who is this nm they call 'OxLynn Saylor, 233-3423, my­ing for lunch dishwasher. HEY!!! I need GA tix for my girls!! Send top 10 nCII'TI!S in Bo'tirre. Hours: 11 :30-2:30 Mon.-Fri. horre garre. Aease call Da1 at NEED USC tix, one stu md order to: A toothpick says six, he's got
288-6251 my tirre after 6 Miss '85 to go.
Hourly rate. Apply in person; 9 tv.o GAs. Call Chris at 1678Need ride to Houston Tex. for 
a.m.-5 p.m no phone calls, 026 Holy Cross Hall -· NO
October break.. Call Chris at HELP! flkJm & Dad need 2
please. And on the line they have the
Need 2 Navy Clld 2 Mien St GA
1678 mytirre, will sha-e usual. GAs for my horre garre. Call (M.B.)...
GORGEOUS To droid
tix Call l.aTy 1049
Malt at 1485 USED & OUT OF PRINT 
Riders needed PURDUE v.eek­think that I've survived one To section six, md errpty wid 
end, leave Thurs. or Fri. 3053 A..EASE!! Need 2 tickets (GAl W"toie yecr of being dazzled by
BOOKS bought, sold, searched I need 3 or 4 GA tlx for the your godly magnificence. Now Gruber CY'Id Wood, Cl1for FSU md GA Tech will pay
ERASMUS BOOKS. Tues-Sun Mldl St. garre Call 1222 md You're such a guy! I love inseparable pair, 
~

bucks Call Joe 8866
12-6. 1027 E Wayne (One 

FOR SALE ask for ~er. ... May As six blows by them. they will
block south of Eddy-Jefferson 
only sta-e. 

Will pay top $ for NO.USC
intersection) DESPERATEl! Need 6 GA

for sale: Yamaha QT 50. 210 garre tickets. Need 6 tickets, Mon Agure de R:>isson 
Midligm tix! Call Kris 41-4212 The chin will be back! Bag,
mi. Alone 277-5828. Ring 12 X best location available. Aease Scoop, T'M)f1 & Kustner 
LOST& FOUND There's noW"tere ~u CCf'1 hide. too,
call mllect (714) 835-6505 ask
A..EASE HELP! Need 2 or 4 'Is the door unlocked yet?' 'No Section 6 says--See ya! You're
FOR SALE: for Tony Herenda or Judi 
Chrysler Nev.port '72 Alnn St. GAs Will pay big bathing or bicycling !"Why a-e all through.
Ccrlos

bucks. 1142
LOST: One quartz Seiko watch. 49000 mi. exc. cond. $1000 you sprinting?' Seriously, you're making this Whirly or v..ord, W"tatever his
The round watch was lost on Scntt-4204 serrester
Needed!! 2 Midligm State GA narre,
Sept. 5, at Corby's or NO Ave. Will trade one A.Jrdue for one tixwill pay$$$ Call Jim at 4642 the best ever!! HCilQ in there 
Midligm tik. Call Jim 6802 Section 6 don't cere, he's got
md has grem sentirrental 1975 BUICK Century, v.ell with rre no garre.
value. ReWiY'd offered. Cali used but dependable. Ideal for Desperately need tickets for Love,
Need USC Student T!x --Will
277-4681 seniors. For info call Dave at Midligm or Aorida State Stu­The Animal 
Pay Big Bucks!!! Call Jim6802 When the gun has sounded,
3633. dent or GA tickets. Call Dave everyooe will know
LOST: 7-iron, Chi•Chi lblri­Trade Midllgm ticket for USC 1809 ' That Section 5 has been burled
guez ToumC11'1!11t (Northwest. Stereo for sale, tmtble, casste, Jeff Undholm. Why a-e )'OU so 
GA, STUDENT, or Cash in that --6 feet below.
em). Aease call1771 spkrs,equalizer, all in good badly needed 2 or 3 GAs for the hcwy?
order. Call Jim 8658 You a-e not allo"M!d to drink
shape. Call Bernie at 7666. Midligm State garre. Call Jim Found. Single key, G/t/1. ccr in at 3562 until 21 !!! 
Need 2 MSU GA Tickets. Will Seniors-Midligm Tailgater
0.1, south end, on Tuesday. FORSALE: 1964 Buick--$125 So wait one rrore yecr 
pay top price. Call 287-2088 We'll be on Field adjacent toFrmde 2781 call 283-1611 after 10 p.m A.Jrdue Ticket for sale. 3053
Evenings. Hcwy Birthday myway stadium Get fired up. LOST: Set of keys in front of Amustec Stereo A111'1ifier md Big Bucks for USC or FSU tix. 
. HEY YOU OUT THERE!! Yes Ccrlos Thmks to all for contributing
Fartey Hail Tuesday night. tuner ll'Bde by KOSS CORP. Call Mart< at 1074
YOU!! I need nmy GAs to the to the L T.C Newsletter, espec­
Tv..o key chains attached with 100 Watts per Chmnel. Call Navy garre. If CCf'1 help, or just PERSONALS ially Cindy, Mcrim, flkJIIy md
total of nine keys. They a-e Rich, 283-1900 for rrore info. FOOD SERVICE WORKER 
feel like talking to a pretty girl John ...
needed desperately. Call 3887 NEEDED. Apply Food Service,
call 6772 I.Dve, the L T.C Seaetcry,
FOR SALE: 110 lb. -.wight set, Saint Mir(s College. R:>si­2 durrbells md barbell includ­tions available: jmitoriai, kit­
Da'la-Buddy FOR RENT ed. And one padded bench. chen deill-up, md orderly.
NEED USC TICKETS --GAs Brmd new (honest). ~ Clld Student Call greg at 4436 HAIRBRAIDING for ail occa­Vcrious hours available. Sheila, W"ty fight rre now? You sions. 291-8215 sure didn't fight rre then. I've
offer. Call Gordon at 277-3617 
Need 4 Mien St. T!x Aease Call had my fun with you so v.e a-e
Rent to OIM1 a COLOR TV or MARIA ELENA--Hcwy Birth­
STEREO 1827 Spice up ',(lur next party with day Chica!!!! l..uv Ccnie md through. So don't grovel!
TICKETS 
BELL YDANCING by SEMI­Thmks for the teeth mcrl<s.
CALL SUN APPLIANCE Melinda 291-5112 
Badly need GAs for Midllgm PECIOUS STONES 291-8215 I.Dve, Peachy State md Aorida State. 
Carrie, you Bcrld-Aid, v.e a-eR!nn St. ticket WCI'lted please 
Call Lee at 289-3822 Cakes, gifts, phone calls, let­Need ride md-or riders to
UGLY DUCKLING RENT-A­so proud of you!! Midligm
call Donna at 6771 ters ... don't send them 'cause
CAR From $8.95 a day md 8 watch out, the three of us a-e Jersey or Rlilly on Rte 80. 
Need 2 GA Tix for USC garre. a beliygram is better! Student Leaving Fri. Sept. 25. Call
cents a mile. Alone 259-8459 Need R!nn St. md USC tickets mming! !! Luv ya Melinda md 
Call Rlbin 2956 rates! 291-8215 Mike 1181
for reservations. R-ice no object. Call Jim 1163 Nleg 


-l 
The Observer Friday, September 18, 1981 -page 9 
• • . Edwards 

continued from p. 10 
will spearhead a tough Notre Dame defense, and Edwards knows that he will be running into Crable more than a few times come Saturday. 
''He's going to be my main blocking assingment, '' remark­ed Edwards. ''Crable's probab­ly the finest linebacker in the nation and man, can he hit. We bumped into each other in last year's game. He's the type of player who never lets up on you. He typifies the team; he's strong, smart and physical player. I know I was pretty sore, physically, after last year's ~ame and I don't expect anyth­zng to be that much different in Saturday's game. 
''Their coach [Faust] has shown that he is a college-level coach with the win they hadlast week." 
Edwards knows that the Notre 

~uno's Pizz~ 
South on US 31 to Western Turn right onto Western to Chapin Go left & take a right on Prairie 
Bruno's Pizza ~0 Prairie-288 -3~ 
Shanghai Restaurant in Roseland A1ongolwn Barbeque Szechuan and A1andarin style dinners Sunday 4pm to 9pm 
A1on-Thurs 11 :30am to 9:30pm Fri-Sat 11: 30am to 10:30pm CARRY OUT SERVICE Luncheon Buffet All you can eat 
$3.75 ~1:30am to 2: 


Dame battle is crucial for Michigan as the Wolverines try to bounce back from their defeat at Wisconsin. 
''Those were not the Michigan Wolverines you saw in Madi­son," Edwards stated. "Those 
Cont./romp. 10. 

The former of the polls was official but the dispute added to tbe intensity. Yet, the eloquent Crisler did his best to downplay the Michigan-Notre Dame con­frontation by putting the quar-. relin proper perspective. 
"That's an argument that wzll keep the hot stove leagues going all winter. It isn't the function ofan educational insti­tution to win fo~ball game~, 

COPP MUSIC CENTER INC 
430 N. Main So. Bend 233~1838 Take 31 South, turn right one block past Memorial Hospital 
eGuitars • Harmonicas eMetronomes eBanjos Accessories eLessons 
•Recorders esheet musiceRepairs 
IOo/o off anything with this 
, , r 

ad•••no 1m1t • 
-• 
' 
were imposters dressed in 
maize and blue unzforms. I guarantee you that we wzll not play like that against Notre Dame.'' 
Not with the television came­
ras on, anyway. Right Stan? 
Rivalry
e e e 
nor would victory have any bearing on the degree the player gets. '' 
Despite Crisler's gentlemanly statements, the n·valry again halted after only a two-year resumption. Because of the demand for tickets and because he knew that his n'val Leahy would be a ferocious competit­or, Cnsler never would agree to another senes with the Insh. Cnsler claimed that the contin­uance of a Notre Dame series would detract from the Ohio State and other Big Ten n'val­n'es. That feeling perszsted unt:l Edward ''Moose'' Krause and Don Canham started talk­ing about the present and continuing senes when Canham became athletic director in 1968. 
Andso, with Michigan holding a 10-4 sen'es edge over Notre Dame, the two nationally acclaimed football n'vals bump heads again--on the fie.d 

• • . Runners 
-· . 
continued from p. 12 
he was the junior college national champion in the mara­thon. "He'll be as consistent a runner as you'll ever want to see," savs Piane. 
The Irish boast three solid returning starters in junior Carl Bicicchi and sophomores Andy Dillon and Ralph Caron. Con­sistent Bicicchi has competed in every varsity meet the last two seasons and has been 
among the top five Ir~s11h finishd­
ers every ume Dt on an 

Caron both boa~t a personal -_:::,,,ARDVARK AUDIO/VIDEO CENTER • 
best of9:05 in the two-mile and 
lettered in their first season of 
collegiate competition. 

Piane credits sophomores Tim Novak and Ed Willenbrink 
. . h' 

wtth great Improvement ~ IS :mmmer. Novak ra~ fo':lr mtles 10 19:48 and five mtles 10 25:00 this summer. ''Tim is more fit now than he ever has been,'' 
P. W'll b. k 'lib 
says tane. _1 en no WI e on th<: trave!l10g squad for the first ume thts weekend. 
Two talented freshmen round out the Irish lineup for the Ohio State meet. John Adams has run a 9:16 two-mile and was second in Michigan's Class B High School Cross C~-~-~ry Championships . last 

lnsh cornerback Stacey Toran gave an a/1-Amen'can performance last week again.stLSU. Here, he intercepts his 
second pass ofthe game, atdtng ~he Irish to their opening 27-9 vzctory. Notre Dame wtll need another Stellar performance from it's defense to stop Michigan tomorrow in Ann Arbor. [photo by Cheryl Ertelt] 
year. Tim Cannon has run a 
4:13 mile and the 3,000 meters in 8:33. Look for these two to contribute right away. 
"In terms of working as a unit, this is the best team I've had," says Piane. "They are a great group of kids who come from very diverse back­grounds, but they have blend­ed together very well." 
The Irish host the National Catholic Meet on Sept. 25, but 
...... ~~~~~~~~~~~..:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
·-~~~cvvvvvvvv...wv.v.vv~~._~ 
' ··.· 100 Center Mishawaka ::;:;: Types Avallllbte 258-1188 ..~ 
Mal'lntz (.IIPinl NAD (Engllnd) 
-« 

Hltlchl (.IIPI'·"' DCM "'Time Wlndowa" (U.S.A.) 
Adcom (U.S.A.) Audio Technlll (.llpen) Soundc!'lftsmen (U.S.A.) Monater Cable (Us A l 30 Acoultk:a (U.S.A.) Keith Monkl A~"ci..nlng Mach. llllnd Sound Ltd. (U.S.A.) Audio Furniture so11 (U.S.A.) B • W (Engllnd) Sony (.llpen) Phi• A~ (U.S.A.) Muell (.llpen) AcMnt (U.S.A.) A.K.o. (Europe) 
FldelltyAe-rch(.IIPin) ~~~~~~Nagatron(.IIPin) ~~~~~~~~,_ Grade Laba (U.S.A.) ~Pre--ned equlp.:;:;r~ 
n dell 11-9 m Sun. 12-6 
at the 

are trying not to look beyond Ohio State. OSU was undefeat­ed in dual meets last year and won a double-dual meet against Bowling Green and Toledo last weekend. 
"Our chances are good," says Sullivan. "They are not pushoyers by any means. In order t~ s~t a good tone for the season tt IS absolutely essential that we run well at Ohio State." 
-
Friday, September 18, 1981 -page 10
The Observer 
Michigan's Edwards loves the spotlight 
• • • Rivalry 
contz'nued from p. 12 "I saw Notre Dame pass yards to Miller, who score 
Stanford to death one Saturday twice and gained 159 yards in game f!Jatfe that possessed by and the next Saturday I saw 10 carn'es. the Mzchzganders seem small--them run the [Iowa Pre-Flight] As if the offthe-field contra­~otre Dame won by Yost tact-Seahawks into the ground. That sial relationship between Yost tcs.. They had the speed for just about kept up all year, that and Notre Dame weren't eno­whzch Yost begs. They tackled passing and great running ugh to keep tempers frayed, the as Yost~ould have men tackle.' game of Notre Dame. How final 1947 polfs added a few Contranly, Yost labeled Michi-could we butld a defense for it? coals to the already heated gan 's first.defeat at the hands That was my job andfrankly, I association. of the Insh as merely ''a just didn't know where to start. On December 8, the Associat­practzce game." So on Monday before our game ed Press named Notre Dame 
Talks resuf!Jed between the with Notre Dame, when [head natz'onal champions following a two schools zn 1941 after Elmer coach] Fn'tz Crisler called me in perfect 9-0-0 season, including U:yd_en had been named athle-andasked for my defense, I told a 38-7 shellacking of Southern tzc dtrectorat Notre Dame. Yost him that the only way we could California two days previously. se~med to prefer negotiating stop Notre Dame's running and However, on New Years Day, 
.wzth .Layden, who ~a_d gained passing game was to hold the Michigan destroyed the same conszderable recogmtzon as one ball. '' Michigan punted the USC team, 49-0, thus prompt­of the famous F?ur Horsemen football only tw.zce enroute to a ing a special Associated Press 6ack zn the mzd-1920s. Yost 32-20 upset victory.$ poll of sports editors and foot­sp_oke highly o(Layden calling Notre Dame avenged the loss ball wn'ters from coast to coast. him a "splenditf young man." one year later led by, ironically, ''The burning sports question 
33 years andetght Notre Dame Creighton Mzller, the son of of the day--which was the undefeated seasons later, one Red Mzller, whose ''fast and greater college football power of the mo_st h~'stoncal mzdwest snappy'' running had spelled of 1947, Michigan or Notre football nvalnes was resumed. doom for the Wolven'nes in Dame?--never to be settled on Under the field direction of their only other previous loss to the field, was answered today Frank Leahy and enroute to a the Irish. Mzller raced 66 yard at the ballot box--and it's 7-2-2 season, the In'sh lost to a on Notre Dame's first play from Michigan almost two to one." crafty Wo_lverine ballclub scrimmage to set the stage for a thanks maznly to the astute Art 35-12 rout. Angelo Bertelli 
See Rivalry page 9.
Va(Pe:y, an assistant coach at passed 76 yards to Fred Earley Mzchtga'!_·_ _ for one score a1'ld anoth_~ of14 

• CII~EIH!ll * 

monday night film series 
An eclectic series of films shown in conjunction with the course GOTH 140 (Basics of Film Stud1es) and sponsored by the Department of Commumcation & Theatre. The series is h1stoncally and nationally vaned. not only to suit the pur­pose of the class, but also to provide local viewers with the opportunity to see films not otherwise available here. 
All showings in the Annenberg Auditorium, the Snite Museum of Art, Notre Dame campus at 7:30 P.M. 
Individual Admissions $1:00 Senes Ticket: 13 films for $10.00 
Monday, August 31 Monday, October 26 
Day for Night Directed by Francois Truffaut, 1972 Who'll Stop the Rain? Directed by, Carel Reisz, 
(116 min.) 1978 (125 min.) · Truffaut's Jove song to the cinema. A funny, witty, warm, Nick Nolte, Tuesday Weld J Michael Moriarty star in this complex film about ... well, about the making of a film. fine adaptation of Robert one's National Book Award­With Jacqueline Bisset, Jean-Pierre Aumont, Pierre Leaud, winning novel Dog Soldiers. This film should be part of any Valentina Cortese. definitive artistic statement about the 60's in America. 
Monday, November 2 

The White Sheik Directed by Federico Felllnl,
Monday, September 21 
1952 (86 min.)

Monsieur Verdoux Directed by Charles Chaplin, This early Fellinl already develops most of the themes1947 (123 min.) 
which he would later expand. His acid sense of fun, in­War, violence, crime, morality; are these really subjects for sight, and charm are completely winning.
a comedy? They are. when the form is in the hands of a genius like Chaplin. Particularly relevant now when we 
Monday, November 9 

seem immersed in one or all Cll the above. 
Invasion of the Body-Snatchers Directed by 
Philip Kaufman, 1978 (114 min.) This recent remake of the science fiction classic is being scheduled during the same week a~ the original (wh1ch will 
Monday, September 28 screen on Thurs. Nov. 5). Which is the better? The making It Happened One Night Directed by Frank Capra, of the comparison may prove more worthwhile than trying 1934 (105 min.) 
to decide. With Clark Gable as a wisecracking newspaper reporter 
Monday. November 16
and Claudette Colbert as a spoiled heiress who meet on ~ Greyhound bus. This film was responsible for the virtual Weekend Directed by Jean Luc Goddard, 1968 demise of the American men's underwear industry (upper (105 min.) torso division) when. Clark Gable removed his shirt to reveal Goddard delivers one of the great statements about the all. consumer society in general, and the automotive dream in 
particular. An impressive example of the work of a major screen dialectician. 
Monday. November 23 Monday, October 5 Cries and Whisper• Directed by lngmar Bergman. Padre Padron• Directed by Paolo and Vitorio Tavlani, 
1972 (106 min.) 1977 (114 min.) 
Very few works in the cinema carry this intensity, honesty A recurrent prizewinner (Cannes Film Festival, etc.), this 
and seriousness of purpose. An invaluable source for the rich and complex film demonstrates the continuing vitality 
study of formal and informal cinematic elements. and, at of the Italian cinema. This beautiful film explores human 
the same time. an example of the formidable Swedish relationships with a density worthy of a great novel. 
director working at the top of his bent A majestic example of :he art of the cinema. 
Monday, November 30 Monday, October 12 Lola Monte:t Directed by Max Ophlus, 1955 (110 min.) 
Ophlus used cinematic technique at the farthest reaches of its possibilities, both technically and artistically. Here. in Vlrldlana Direct~d by Luis Bunuel, 1961 (90 min.) 
The great Surrealist master Is at it again, this time staging the story of the celebrated courtesan. he seems to evena version of the Last Supper to end all versions. Full of outreach himself.
verve, wit, and insight. 

By DREW SHARP Executive Sports Editor The Michigan Daily 
"Welcome to ABC's NCAA 
.... football. Today 's game pits the Fighting In'sh of Notre Dame against the Michigan Wolver­ines starring Stanley Edwards. ' 
Stan Edwards thrives on being in the spotlight. The 6-0, 208­pound fullback came to Michi­gan because it had a well-run, and strongly publicized, foot­ball program. He knew that Wolven'ne football games wo­uld be televised often through­out the country and he could only benefit from the exposure. Little did Edwards know that he would be _the highlight of Michigan's nationally televt'sed games. 
In the past two seasons, the Detroit native has captured the ABC-TV Chevrolet player ofthe gameawardfourtimes. He won it against Notre Dame and Michigan State in 1979, and against Illinois and Purdue in 1980. 
''It seems like most ofthe time that we play on television, I have a good game, '' satd edwards. ''I guess I wanted to make the best of it whenever our games are televt'sed. I've had what I considered to be good games throughout my career, but I'm kind oflucky to have my best games on TV. I'm just glad that my playing help­ed us win most of those games. 'I 
-,_ 
Edwards' team attitude is best typified by ht's switch from tailback to fullback at the beginning of the 1980 season. Edwards had a slight edge oer Butch Woolfolk in the tailback slot following the 1979 campa­ign but coach Bo Schembechler wantedto utzlize both players in the same backfield because of their fine speed. Thus, Edwar­ds was destined to be one ofthe smallest fullbacks in the Big Ten. He made good of the transition, however, accumula­ting 901 yards for the season. In all, Edwards felt that the change has made him a better all around football player. "Mainly, I'm just glad to be playing, '' Edwards added. "We've got two fine backs t"n Butch and Larry [Ricks] and these guys have to play. And zf pla:ying them means moving me to fullback, then that's fine with me. I like going through the line to get the three or four yards a shot. I know I still have the speed and by adding this dimension to my game, I think that it will improve my worth for the pros. When you have the backfield lzlke we have, you can go to any ofthem to g_et the job done. I'm happy with the way things are now. The fullback gets the chance to roll over people sometimes, and I like doing that. '' 
A defensive player who might not necessarily roll over is Notre Dame's aii-Amencan linebacker, Bob Crable. Crable 
SEE EDWARDs· PAGE 9 
smc STUDENT GOVT ALLOCATION APPLICATIONS 
Available Now 
Student Activities Office 168 l.emans 
All SmC/ND clubs & organizations eligible due mon. sept 21 
Are you considering becoming a Catholic? 
Are you waiting for the right moment to become baptized? 
Perhaps the moment is now. 
For mors information, contact the Office of Campus Ministry, ext. 6536 (library) 4392 (Badin) 
[311 
campus
miniStry 
.....--------------~----------------~----------~---------~---~-----~~ 
The Observer~~,-­
Friday, September 18, 1981 -page 11
Weekend 
Molarity 
5HE5£EHEDDK FO': 5DHcCWt: 
DOIJ'I WORRY, FE.LL6W, 
WHo THDIX:ff!T 6H£ WA~ 
WELL TAK£ I+E.R TlJ A 
FROH Til£ P/..ANEIL/55ARB... 
PL.ACt: ~J-IfR£3 SHE: CAN FjELA )( AIJP ~ET 13ETJE,Ii?,. 
+ 
UH.. ()ICK 7 

Simon 

MICE fiR£. WELL Cn'<OOMEO liM 
ClEAN. WE /11'?€ CXJtET fll/D J)o 
Ak!T BITE. /tCTUAILY W£ 11~£ #let Ill/{) 11111(£ VEtfY GCct:>
Pas. 
\~.~~ 

,;,v. ' ~ . ]( 
~o~ 


The Daily Crossword 

©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Michael Molinelli 

"t'E:P, PEoPLE' FRDH 771£ PlANET TIIAI .5HE. :S Fi't:ALL Y l>ffP 
,,. :I. MEA IV ... 51¥ .5EEJvlt':J? 
L. I55Aii'B V5UALLYARc.. :rtlE:Y~E PUll£ 11/0UC,HT ~6.i, YOU kNOW .., BVT l-AST k!E'F3K, wHEN IWC> 6UY..S FROH 17-i£' Pt.AIJET 
f /J N A t-3" (AM£ IX'JhitJ ... -nJATs A lJHOJ..E J)JFrcREt·JTH477EK... 


Jeb Cashin 
OH F/iTIIER. / THE!(£ '.5 
A HU'E RAT IN 
yCJJR 'R:XI(ET! ~ 
"" 
51 Miss Hagen 25 Coffee­54 Assimila· maker lion 
26 One of the 56 Gin's tides companion 27 Laborer 58 Power of old source: 28 Locality abbr. 29 A Ritter 59 Company 30 Certain VIP 
ammunition 60 Command 31 "-the 
61 Take live season ... " 62-majesty 32 Atlas items 63 Rlata loop 33 Author 
Ludwig 
DOWN 34 Team 1 Planet number 2 Nanking 35 Capture, in 
nana Scotland 3 High or 37 Cal's cry 
swan 40 Bad actor 4 Munched 41 Presently 5 Browning 43 Display 
poem 44 Passenger 6 Itch 45 Roman 7 -nous official 8 Money, In 46 Venetian 
Milano rulers 9 Mrs. Cantor 47 Put In 10 Ibsen office 
heroine 48 Drug plants 11 NY's-50 Idee-
Island 51 Ruin 12 Coeur d' -52 Four-in· 13 Removes hands 
skin 53 "God's 19 Famous name Little-" in jazz 55 -Aviv 
22 Do clerical 57 Spanish work gold 
... AIJD Of: CCJURSE 
ltf~ESISTA&. 'I CUTE. 

_:fiB 

9·/f 
WE ME 


Oberlin College defensive end Dave Hawkins wants to make sure that no one forgets his number. 
jaws is back, this time in Tokyo for a premier ofthe movie. 
ACROSS 1 "CaiiMe-" 6 Place to 
get a hero 10 Pile 14 Friendship 15 Author 
Bagnold 16 Logan or Fitzgerald 17 "Bolero" composer 18 Noncom­milled one 20 Haggard 
title 21 In flames 23 City NE 
of Venice 24 Father 25 Official 
decrees 26 Settle down 
snugly 29 Uno, due, ­30 Next to 31 City 
eyesore 36 African 
tongue 37 Combine 38 Female 
monster 
39 Orator's 
forte 
41 Towering 
42 Partner 
of hem 
43 Maroon 
44 Pay off 
48 Bard's 
river 
49 Adored ones 
50 Highland ­

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

~TI'® 
More ' 'Super Specials ' ' at Sr. Bar! tonight: Margaritas Sat. nite: Wine Cooler 
'Super Specials" are in effect from 9:30-11:30 After 11:30 our normal special will prevail. 
Open Sat. 12-5 pm for T.V. coverage of the N.D.-Mich game! Be there in Spirit! 
Come on out this weekend. Help us celebrate a victory at Michigan! 


The Student Union Presents: 
ISund 



Stepan Cente,...______ 
Fr~~~ay, September ~-R, ~ 981 -pag~? 12 
-----~~--------=~ ~-----­

Notre Dame's number one headache tomorrow· will be stopping Michigan's star wide receiver, Anthony Carter. Last week, Wisconsin held Carter to one rect.ption, and was able to beat the Wolven.nes, 21-14. 
To our readers 
Because of unforseen difficulties with our computer systems, we were unable to publish this week's edition of th_e Irish Ex~ra football supplement. Hopefully, the problem wtll be rectified so that we may bring you our in-depth preview of next week's Purdue game. The Observer regrets any inconvience this may have caused. 
.. At Ohio State 
~--~--~­
15th meeting 

Irish, Wolverines·square off 
By KELLY SULLIVAN "It's tough to prepare for such about Michigan is Michigan, " Sports Writer a big game when you're coming he admitted. ''They're one of off such a poor performance," the country's best teams on ANN ARBOR· Mich.--Follow­he confessed. • both side:: of the ball. Their 
ing a pair of cliffhangers in ''But I know it wzll still be a offense is very explosive. Pro 1979 and '80, Michigan and great contest. There always has scouts say their line is one of Notre Dame, two of the most been a lot ofintensity between the best in college football. And legendary names in college the two schools, and that usual­I doubt there 'II be any defenses 
football, are preparing to do ly results in some very good we go up against all year as battle for the 15th time tomorr­football. ' ' good as Michigan's. '' ow. Despite the pollsters' evalua­
And beside all the physicalBut Wolverine country is str­tion ofMichigan as the countr­obstacles they present, theangely subdued compared to its y's elevent-best team, Insh Wolverines possess a tremdousnormally feverish pitch for a coach Gerry Faust zsn 't taking advantage mentally, accordingThursday prior to such a big anything for granted. 
to Faust.

game. The college town hosting ''I want to compliment Wiscon­the nation's no.1 team is a city sin for the job they dtd last ''Michigan has a distinct psy­in shock after last week's 21-14 Saturday," he said. "It's very ~hological advantage this week. loss at-Wisconsin. difficult to stop a team like There are no zfs, and.t, or buts 
Michigan coach Bo Schem­Michigan, ancf keep the ball zbout it, ''he sazd emphatically. bechler steers himself and his away from a guy like Anthony "Emotionally, they have every­players away from the press, so Carter. But I don't think that thing going for them. " no one is quite sure exactly could be accomplzshed two 
''We're going into their home what thoughts are crossing weeks in a row.'' 
stadium as the No. 1 team," hetheir minds this week, but it is Although he hada slow day at continues. ''They feel they have obvious that Wolven-ne fans are Wisconsin, Carter, the Wolver­to redeem themselves after last uncomfortable with their first­-ines' consensus all-amen·ca fla­week, and they 'II want to makeever season-opening loss under nker; has averaged 16.3 yards up for their last two losses to
bo. every time he has touched the Notre Dame."
''I've never hada team play so football in hzs collegiate career. 
"We're going to have to playpoorly in all my years of ''He 'sa problem any time he's perfect football to get out ofcoaching here at Michigan than on the field, '' Faust remarked. 
there alive. " 

they dzd out at Wisonsin--nev­''He's a constant six-point er. '' Schembechler said earlier threat as a receiver and a IRISH 11EMS,V<"ickoff is sch­this week, "Wefjlayed a very, runner. And what he does on eduled for 12:50p.m. EST (1:15 very poor footba ~game. We're kickoffs zs astronomical. You sit Ann Arbor] ... Tile game will be not the t~~m everyone thought scared the whole game when he televised live by ABC [Channel we were. plays." 28 in South Bend] ... T"here is a 
Despite his team's disappoint­but Notre Dame can't afford to distinct possibility that the ing debut, the Michigan mentor focus all their attention on the all-time Michigan attendance re anticipates yet another classic junior speedster, as Faust ack-ord may be broken tomorrow match-up between these two nowledges. -[106,225 Ohio State at Michigan Midwestern rivals. ''What concerns me most in 1979]. 
ND vs. Michigan 

Rivalry continues after 94 years 
By TIM PRISTER 

the images ofquarterback Rick ''The Notre Dame Alumnus. '' Sports Writer Leach leading a second half "The game had been schedul­surge in 1978 and the kicking ed with the sole purpose of
People associated with Notre 

heroics of Chuck Male and instructing the chosen few in 
Dame football over the last few Harry Oliver in the subsequent the fundamentals of the game years are quite familiar with the 
matchups. then called rugby. 
recent gridiron battles between However, some ofthe greatest ''just before the game the men the Insh and the Michigan battles between the Insh and went through their paces in a Wolven·nes. Stzll quite vivid are the W olven·nes have taken 

little signal practice and scn·m­place off the field rather than mage .... the men were placed between the white lines. One irrespecive of the school. '' It such instance was made clearly seems quite comical to picture
evident by the 32-year dorman­the fiercely competitive behem­cy ofthe Notre Dame-Michigan oths from Notre Dame and
Improved Irish runners open season 
series from 1909 to 1942. Michigan pounding pads with 
Fie/cling Yost, head coach and each other--before the game. By EARL RIX Hatherly, the other senior co­A look at the balanced Irish later Athletic Director at Michi­Michigan prevazled 8-0 in Sports Wn"ter captain. ''There is more depth lineup for this weekend shows gan, was accused by van·ous Notre Dame's first competitive 
through 20 guys than we've reason for optimism. promoters of the n·valry of ·football encounter and the 1940 
The 1981 cross country sea­ever had. There's a different Senior co-captain Pat Sul­refusing to play Notre Dame Scholastic descn"bed the post son gets under way Saturday attitude --it is more team livan, who is returning for a because of hzs ''intense dzslik­game scene in retrospect. for Notre Dame, as the Irish oriented.'' fifth year of eligibility, did not ing '' ofthen head coach Knute ''After the game the winners travel to Columbus, Ohio, for a Cross country is very much a run any cross-country last year Rockne. Charges and counter­were fed, packed into carriages dual meet against Ohio State. team sport. All of the top cross because of an injury. During charges by Yost of Rockne andtransported to Niles [Michi­
Because three of last year's country teams run as a pack for his sophomore year he paced using ''ineligible players'' end­gan] station. As they left, the ed a series that had run
seven starters have been lost to as long as they can, according the Irish in all seven meets. He Notre Dame men cheered them graduation; Head Coach ] oe to Piane. In the past the Irish says that he is healthy and in intermittently for 22 years. and wished some day they, too, Piane feels that this year's had neither the depth nor the _ shape for the first time in three ''I have no desire to talk about might be champions of the team will be severely under­attitude to be able to do that. years. any Michigan-Notre Dame pro­west.'' rated by the opposition. Piane feels that the 1981 unit. Senior co-captain Tony posals, '' said Yost as late as Michigan proceeded to domi­
"We've really improved," will be able to run successfully Hatherly established himself as 1936. ''I absolutely wtll not nate the series over the next Piane says. "We're going to as a team unit. Notre Dame's top cross country comment on the subject or any two decades outscon·ng the make a real jump this year and 'Three years ago," says runner before he was plagued phase ofit. '' Insh 121-16, notching shutouts we're going to start that off on Piane, "we had a very good by injuries last year. Hatherly Not surpnsingly, wn"ters in the in five out of the next eight 
Saturday." team. Those kids were talented also is healthy for the first time Midwest agreed that Michigan games played. Finally, after 21 
"The team attitude is fantas­but didn't run as a unit. They in a long while, recovering stopped playing Notre Dame years of effort, pupil defeated tic," says senior co-captain Pat ran as individuals, which was from operations on both legs in and not vice versa. In fact, the master, 11-3. Sullivan. ''Everyone came back destructive. These guys aren't May. "It should be three or 32-year layoff followed Notre ''Frank C. Longman, who lear­
quite as talented but they run four weeks before I start to run Dame's 11-3 victory in 1909, the ned his football under Yost,healthy and in shape. Everyone 
had done their work over the as a team, and consequently really well," he says. first Insh victory over Michigan sent against Michigan today 10 summer, and that's the first we'll do much better." Junior Marc Wozniak is an­in nine tn.es. splendid players and a man The Irish are running nine other experienced runner who It was the "mighty monarchs named Red Mtfler, '' reported
time that's happened in my men at Ohio State. "I have didn't run for the Irish last of the Midwest, '' the W olver­the Detroit News Tribune. 
experience.'' 
Two of the reasons for this confidence in all nine of year. The 27-year-old junior ines. who taught the game of ''They out-generaled, out-tack­them," says Piane. "Any one college transfer should bolster football to Notre Dame in 1887. led and out-blocked Michigan. 
year's contagious optimism are 
of them could be the number the Irish lineup. His impressive "The game was somewhat ofa They were faster, fought harder 
improved depth and a strong one man. I don't care who wins credentials include the fact that mismatch because Notre Dame and sheer knowledge of the~team attitude. "The team is 
looking the best it has in my the race individually as long as SEE RUNNERS* PAGE 9 hadonly a few weeks ofpractice 
SEE RIVAlRY PAGE 10
Notre Dame wins as a team.'' before the game, ''according to
four years here," says Tony 
-.. _, 




