
~----------------------------------·-----------------------------­
,... ·v _ ......... ''I •..,.:::~-..-: ......... 
-· ·~ 
, , , Beach Boys -page 6 
---~­
\ <lL XVI, 1\0_ 42 f'RI!)AY.UCT(lii!'H !:, li)KJ 
Vetoed and favored 
Committees vote on AWACS 
WASHINGTON (AP)-A Senate regret it." A Senate vote, originally 
committee recommended Thursday In Philadelphia, President Reagan scheduled next Wednesday, has that the proposed sale of AWACS reacted by saying, "Frankly, I'm been postponed until the week after radar planes to Saudi Arabia be gratified that it was that close. Of next. vetoed, but Senate Republican course, I wish they'd gone the other Undersecretary of State James L Leader Howard Baker said he is way." Buckley, testifying at the Foreign 
more confident than evtr the sale The president said that with the Relations panel's final hearing on the will go through. committee vote that close, he is still sale, said a congressional veto ofthe 
"We have a certain momentum," confident the sale will be approved sale would jeopardize America's Baker told reporters. "It's now win­on the Senate floor. most practical means for moving nable. Several weeks ago it wasn't." The Foreign Relations panel ac­combat forces into the Persian Gulf 
Baker offered his assessment prior tion came a few hours after the if needed to protect oil fields. to the Foreign Relations Commit­Armed Services Committee en­Baker told reporters President tee's 9-H vote against the sale, a dorsed the sale 10-5, concluding in a Reagan still has "an uphill fight" to lineup that the GOP leader had an­report that it "will enhance the win the sale but said he was far more ticipated. pQtential of U.S. military forces to optimistic Thursday than he had 
The committee vote came despite protect U.S. interests in the Persian been even a day earlier. Baker's plea that "not a single issue Gulf region." Senate Democratic Leader Robert has more far-reaching consequences The House rejected the $8.5 bil­C. Byrd ofWest Virginia, saying he is 
for the ultimate security of this lion sale Wednesday by a 30 1-1 1 1 close to his own decision, hinted he country." margin, but the deal goes through might come out in favor. 
And Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., had unless it also is rejected by the Senate leaders said they put the old his colleagues: "If the Senate Senate, where the administration vote. off because the president will ejects this sale, I predict that every has been concentrating its lobbying be in Mexico next week for a 22­
cnator who votes against it will efforts. nation summit conference. 
---~­
Committee members opposed to the sale issued a separate statement saying Saudi oil fields should con­
tinue to be protected by the U.S.­operated AWACS planes already there because "the stability of the Saudi government cannot be 
Reagan prepares for 


evelopment conference 
assured." 
PHILADELPHIA ( AP) -President ing is that they have nothing to of­eagan assailed the Soviet Union on fer," the president said. "In fact, we 'hursday as having nothing to offer have just one question for them: he global poor, while he rejected who's feeding whom? he claims of "some shrill voices" 

Airlines engage in fare war
"I can hardly remember a yearthat he is tightfisted with America's when Soviet harvests have not been 

helping hand. 
victimized by 'bad weather,"' he By GREG SMALL an even _lower fare: $37.90. _A_!ojla island flights to _visit family andSetting the stage for his journey to continued. "They've had quite a Associated Press Writer immediately cut its fare accordingly. friends or to conduct business,Mexico next week for a conference long losing streak for a government But the lowest fare going in the according to Haugen.
between 22 industrial and develop­which still insists the tides ofhistory HONOLULU (AP) -Hawaiian Hawaiian skies is the $29.90 charged Figures from the Hawaii Visitorsing nations, Reagan offered no are running in its favor." Airlines' standard round-trip fare for on Saturdays by Mid Pacific Airlines, Bureau sho~ just a slight decrease inpromise of increased foreign aid in the popular flight between an upstart newcomer leading a the total number of visitors tothe years to come, though he noted "The Soviets, of course, can rely Honolulu and Maui Island was S94 at three-way inter-island air fare war Hawaii so far this year. But the dropthe United States already gives more on farmers from America and other the start·of the year. Early this week, that is delighting the flying public. is much higher on the neighboringthan any other nation. nations to keep their people fed." 
the airline was charging just 543 On any other day, Mid Pacific islands.
Instead, he said a greater con­"To listen to some shrill voices, one-way -and throwing in the charges $37.90, hence the moves by Aloha's Milton Goto said he inter·tribution "is to follow through with you'd think our policies were as return trip for nothing. Hawaiian and Aloha. prets the figures to mean that peopleour own economic recovery" stingy as your Philadelphia Eagles' The "Fly Home Free" promotional Since January, fares on some are willing to travel as far ascouplc:d with greater private invest­defense," Reagan said. "There s a fare -S43 for short flights and S63 flights have gone down by as much Honolulu but "the cost-consciousment in foreign trade. 
propaganda campaign in wide cir­round-trip for longer inter-island as 50 percent, according to traveler" balks at paying extra"By getting our own economic culation that would have the world trips -was identical to Aloha Hawaiian Air spokesman Tom money to visit the outer islands.
house in order, we win, they win, we believe capitalist U.S. is the cause of Airlines' "Be Our Guest" fare. McGarvey. Hurt by both the decline in pas­all win," the president said, referring world hunger and poverty." Yesterday Hawaiian announced The fare war began last March sengers and the loss of revenues to the industrial democracies on one 
··----, 

when Mid Pacific entered the inter­from the fare war, Ha\ ·aiian and 

hand and the poorest nations on the other. The speech, before the World Af­fairs Council, broke no new ground. 
!Students meet with But it affirmed Reagan's thoughts on international economics one week before he meets with 21 other heads 
\Trustees next week

of government in Cancun, Mexico, to review relations between the world's rich and poor. .!!'w~~ ZAPPIA 
The president was interrupted when one man in the audience of 
I 
The need for a university student center will be the major topic ofseveral hundred shouted from the balcony: "Are nuclear weapons the way to world peace?" Reagan said, in return, "I spoke here in 1975 and there wasn't an echo." 

As he continued, several others chanted "Stop nuclear war," and were promptly escorted from the room. Outside the hall, meanwhile, striking Philadelphia teachers and fired federal air traffic controllers demonstrated against the presi­dent's'spending policies. 
"For the record," Reagan decared, "the Soviets will not attend the con­ference at Cancun. They simply wash their hands of any respon­sibility, insisting all the economic problems of the world result from capitalism, and all the solutions lie with socialism. 
"The real reason they're not com-discussion at the Oct 22 meeting ofthe Board ofTrustees. 
Student Body President Don Murday stated that a major reason why students move offcampus is because there is no place to go and nothing to do on campus. He also stated that the university must do something to resolve this need for social space before thingsgets out ofhand. 
Murday pointed out that the student center has been a topic of interest for several years, and he feels that it is time something is done toward making it a reality. 
Another topic of discussion will be a request for longer library hours. Murday claimed that there are few places on campus to study, and the hours ofthe library are not satifactory. He said that a student center would solve this problem. 
Also on the agenda is a discussion ofcoeducation at the university. Student Body Vice President Tara Kenney will explain the need for integration between male and female students. She will also relate this to the request for a student center. 
The final topic of the meeting will be a presentation by Murday thanking Father Hesburgh for his 30 years ofservice to the Univer­sity. 

island flight market on a limited Aloha also have been fon.ed to cut basis. 
Unlike Aloha and Hawaiian, which fly to all the state's major islands, F=tiDAY~ Mid Pacific serves only two islands from Honolulu -Maui and Kauai ­

FOCUS
with a tiny fleet of three turbo-prop planes. 
While Aloha and Hawaiian have been losing passengers and money, staff by 10 percent and slash wage!: Mid Pacific has turned a profit, 10 percent for non-union despite beingforced to undercut the employees. major competition, says Mid Pacific Despite Mid Pacific's obvious ef. spokesman Keith Haugen. fect on their business, neither Aloha 
All the airlines, however, will be nor Hawaiian consider the new­boosting their fares on Dec. 20 for comer a real threat to their es­the holidays, which traditionally tablished stronghold on Inter-Island mark an upsurge in the number of air traffic. tourists coming to the island state. Hawaiian's McGarvey noted that 
"All three of us will be able to fill his airline and Aloha transport our planes during Christmas and thousands ofpassengers a day, while New Year's," Haugen said. Mid Pacific handles only hundreds. 
It was the inability of Aloha and Nevertheless, Mid Pacific Is Hawaiian to fill their planes that led growing. Haugen said the carrier them to enter the fare war. But the will be adding staff soon and dou­two larger carriers insist it is not bling its fleet to six planes by the end 
competition from Mid Pacific that is of the year. The airline also plans to causing their slump. Both Hawaiian open new routes to Hawaii Island. and Aloha blame shrinking tourism Haugen also pointed out that even totals. in a sluggish economy, Mid Pa<,:ific Is Mid Pacific, on the other hand, meeting success in the inter-island says 85 percent ofIts passengers are 
See FOCUS,page 4 local residents who rely on Inter­
~==­




ews Brie!§ I 

Friday, October 16, 1981 -page 2 
j 
By"/ be Ohsert•er anu Tbe Associated Press 


Ray Shantie, 60,an industrialist and inventor, launched a campaign yesterday to unseat Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass. Shamie kicked off his statewide campaign with full-page advertise­ments in 40 daily newspapers throughout the Bay State. It marks his 
.first attempt at statewide politics. Shamie will be. announced as the first official candidate for the Republican Senate nomination at the Boston Museum ofTransportation Sunday. -AP 
The Rev. Sun Myung Moon, founder and 
spiritual leader of the Unification Church, and a top aide wen: charged in a federal indictment yesterday with conspiracy and defrauding the government ofincome taxes. Unification Church offi­cials denied the charges, and accused the government of a "fundamental attack on all religions in America." Moon, 61, was accused offiling false personal tax returns for 1973, 1974 and 1975 and failing to report about $1 12,000 on interest earned on bank deposits in those years. He also was charged with failing to report $70,000 worth ofstock he and his wife .::eceived in a trade for mer­chandise in 1973. If convicted of the charges, Moon could be im­prisoned as long as five years on the conspiracy count and three years on each count of filing false returns and be fined S25,000. Church leaders said Moon, a Korean native who has a home in Ir­vington, a suburb of New York City, was "out of the country," and would not say whether he would return to the United States to face charges. -AP 
Of 8,860 Indonesian government officials inves­tigated for corruption in the last four years, 7,513 were given "administrative sanction," sacked, declared non-active or made to retire, the Indonesian government announced yesterday. It said 847 other officials were brought to court and 240 others given "lighter punishment." The nationwide campaign also recovered SI 77 mil­lion in state money that was illegally diverted from state coffers. ­
AP 
Zimbabwe's 17-month-old black socialist 
government, alarmed at shortages of skilled workers, has issued a worldwide appeal to nationals living abroad to return to their homeland. At least I ,600 whites, including skilled artisans, have left the territory each month since the former white-ruled British colony of Rhodesia won its independence in April 1980. -AP 
Thousands ofpeopleconverged onJerusalem yes­terday for an annual holiday march that was sharply trimmed from previous years. The Jerusalem march is timed to coincide with the Jewish holiday of Sukkot, the Feast of Tabernacles, which com­memorates the 40-year journey from Egypt to the Promised Land by the ancient Israelites. Unlike those of previous years, the march avoided the center of town, and Israeli army units did not join the parade. An army spokesman said cutbacks in military spending precluded their participation. -AP 
Sen. Barry Goldwater wm undergo hip surgery in Phoenix early next month but plans to stay in Washington at least until the Senate votes on the proposed sale of AWACS surveillance planes to Saudi Arabia. Goldwater, 72, is expected to be hospitalized for two weeks, then spend four weeks recuperating at his Paradise Valley home, his office said Wednesday. The Arizona Republican suf­fers from a buildup ofcalcium in his joints that chips away and causes extreme pain, said Judy Eisenhower, the senator's administrative as­sistant. The operation is set tentatively for Nov. 2 or 3 and will be on Goldwater's left hip, she said. He had surgery on his right hip in 
1976. -AP 
Prince Charles and Princess Diana moved closer toward setting up house Thursday when wedding presents and other personal effects were moved to Highgrove, the royal country estate. Presents that had been on public display at St. James's Palace in London until last week were loaded into trucks and taken on the four-hour journey to Gloucestershire. The load also included items belonging to Prince Charles taken from Buckingham Palace. Work at the country estate is not complete and a formal moving-in day has yet to be fixed. Charles and Diana are expected to move in at the end of this month after they return from Wales, their first public tour together since their August honeymoon. -AP 
There is a new brandof bottled water for sale, but its distributors wouldn't want anyone to drink it. It's Mississippi River water-"impure and unnatural," the label promises. Contents include "hydrogen, oxygen, petroleum, phenol, unidentified float­ing objects, nuclear waste and chloroform." The thick, gray-brown substance is advertised to remove paint, kilJ weeds and cultivate tumors. The product, a descendant of the Pet Rock and canned smog, is bottled by three students at Tulane University and is sold at gift shops in New Orleans' French Quarter. Ron Small, a business major, said he came up with the idea as a "tongue-in-cheek comment on the quality of the city's water." "The ingredients are actual," he said, "and all the city's water is taken from the river." One difference is that Small glues his products' lids shut for safety. "We don't want any kids drinking it," he said. -AP 
Mostly sunny today. Highs in the low to mid 60s. Partly cloudy Frday night. Lows in the upper 40s. Cloudy with a chance for rain Saturday. Highs in the upper 50s. -AP 


And the nominees are • • • 
There is a distinct possibility that the next time you pick up an Observer (when you return from fall break) headlines on the front page will proclaim the selection ofa new president ofthe University of Notre Dame. 
Rumors are rampant on campus that a successor to Fr. Theodore Hesburgh will be named during the Uni­versity Board of Trustees meeting, which commences next Friday at 9:30 a.m. Information Services Director Richard Conklin told me yesterday afternoon that the issue of the impending presidential vacancy is not offi­cially on the agenda ofthe meeting. However, he added, "We'll just have to wait and see." 
In fact, he expressed a desire to know the whereabouts ofour executive news editor next Friday, "just in case." "We want to be flexible on Friday and to know the whereabouts of members ofthe media so we can reach them on an hour's notice if there's a press conference," Conklin explained. 
When compared to the amount of speculation that preceded the naming of Gerry Faust as the new Notre Dame heact football coach, the amount of armchair guessing and predicting that has surrounded the upcoming presidential selection seems very limited; a few murmurs here, a couple ofwhispers there. 
Perhaps the reason why there's been so little serious 
discussion about the matter 
__, the man who several years 
is  the  recognition  of the  "'  
position's lofty require­ments and the subsequent  /I I  
desire  to  remain  discreet  
about the possible  succes­ 
sors.  
Or maybe the  reason  is  
that no one can really come  
to  grips  with  the  idea  of  
Notre  Dame  without  
"Father Ted"  at  the  helm.  
Next  year  will  mark  Res­ 
burgh's 30th year as  Presi­ 
.dent  of the  University.  A  
tenure ofsuch duration is al­ 
most unheard of at a major  
American college.  
Think of it for a moment.  

Thirty years -that's more years than most of the stu­dents (and some of the professors) have been living. Over half of Notre Dame's 67,000 alumni have Res­burgh's signature on their diplomas. America has been deeply altered by the 50s, the Kennedy assassination, Vietnam, the 60s campus uprisings, Watergate, Iran and all of the other good and bad events that have marked the turbulent years since 1952. But "Father Ted" has stood firm like the statue of Fr. Sorin. 
And just like Fr. Sorin, Hesburgh has come to symbolize everything Notre Dame stands for. The Chicago Tribune reported Sunday that Hesburgh is ap­proachingformer U.S. President Herbert Hoover's mark in the Guiness Book ofWorld Records for receiving the most honorary degrees. For Notre Dame, Hesburgh has been the quintessential leader -and public relations specialist. 
Now he is stepping down. It's true, this time he really is. For years now, he has made an annual offer to step down, and for just as many years, the Board ofTrustees has asked him to stay on longer. 

Design Editor...................... Maura Murphy Design Assistants........................ Jim Keyes Layout Staff..................................... Bill Zink Typeseller ............................ Stephen Brown News Editor ........................ Tim Vercelloui Copy Editor.................................. Tim Neely Features Layout..................... Tony Walton Sports Copy Editor.............. Chris Needles Typist ..................................... Dodee Carney -~vstems Control ................... Bruce Oakley· ND Day Editor .....................Joe Musemeci .4d Design ......................... Fran, Mary & Co. Photographer .......... ................... Tonia Hap Guest Appearances ........ Mcgrath,Macor'• Shaodow 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except dunng exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Col­lege. Subscriptions may be purchased 
tor $25 per year ($15 per semester) by writing The Observer. P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Second class postage paid at Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 

But now the decision must be made. Rumors circulat­ing around the halls of the administration building ­and the serving lines in the dining halls -have by now included everyone in the presidential "race" from Dan Devine to the little old man who collects litter on the quad. We must remember, however, that the choice is constitutionally limited to a member of the Congrega­tion of the Holy Cross and a member of the order's In­diana Province. That stipulation certainly cuts the field ofcandidates. 
Despite these limitations, amateur "dome watchers" have managed to build up quite a list of "serious" con­tenders. OK, let's get down to the nitty gritty line I've so far avoided -the watch list of the people most often mentioned by some of my most reliable sources: 
• Fr. James Burtchaell, professor of theology, and 
ago served as University
' 
' 
Provost -only to resign af­
' 
I 

ter a brieftenure. I e Fr. Thomas Blantz, as­
I 
I 

I I sociate professor and chairman of the history department. e Fr. Ernest Bartell, profes­sor ofeconomics. e Fr. David Tyson, assistant professor of management and director of sophomores in the College of Business Administration. 
The only reasonably cer­tain thing I can say about this informal list is that the Notre Dame administration -just 

like its ultimate chairman ofthe board -often works in mysterious ways. The chances are probably quite good that none ofthe professors listed above will get the nod, but if one of them does, don't forget where you heard your information. 
Looking ahead for the moment, what would life be like for any successor to Father Ted? From all indica­tions, Hesburgh will not fade away after he resigns the presidency, but rather move on to that impressive sounding position ofChancellor. 
"It's going to be very interesting to see how this per­son (new president) will react to being an understudy of Father Ted," observed Student Body President Don Murday on last night's WSND-AM broadcast, "Notre Dame Week in Review." "There's no doubt in my mind that Fr. Hesburgh will still be calling the shots." 
Indeed. Although we know that Fr. Hesburgh will still be there after next Friday, somehow, by resigning his position, he will be endingan era at Notre Dame, and for all ofus, something will never be the same. 
Friday, October 16, 1981 -page 3 
The Observer 
Greenberg speaks on civil rights 

The Centt>rfor Civil and Human Rights and the Notre Dame Law SchotJI are presenting a lecture series featuring attorney jack Greenberg. Greenberg, Director-Counsel for the the NAACP Legal Defense and t:ucatiomtl Fuml, bas been involved in nem-~)' every majorcivil rights case argued before theSupreme Court since 1949. 
1Conscience Week' concludes tomorrow 
By TOM SHAUGHNESSY 
News Staff 
l'risoncr of Consciem:e Week (Oct. 12-17) is sponsored by Am­nesty Intt·rnational in order to high­light tltt• plight ofpolitical prisoners throughout the world. 
Thb year's Prisoner of Con­~dt·nce Wt·ek is being held within the context of the new report relc:ased hy Amnesty International on Oct. 9, 19H l. An·ording to this report, about half of the I S4 United Nations member states are holding political prboners. according to Notre Dame government professor Gilbert Loescher. 
Loescher. who formed the Notre Dame t.~hapter of Amnesty Interna­tional in 1976, said that "it is impor­tant to note that thest.· are only a fraction of the total number being held." 
During this week, Amnesty !mer­national groups throughout the 
-
world are holding religious services, vigils, and public meetings. Some groups are sending delegates to foreign embassies to press for the relt-asc ofpolitical prisoners. 
Amnesty International has groups in fifty countrie~ throughout the world, with 200 adoption groups in . the United States. An adoption group is assigned specific prisoners by the International Secretariat of Amnesty International and these groups work for their release. 
The Notre Dame chapter spon­sors prisoners in the LJ.S.S.R. and Syria. In the twenty years ofits exist­ence, Amnesty International ha.~ secured the release of over 10,000 prisoners ofconscience. 
The next meeting of Amnesty In­ternational will be held on Oct. 28 in the International Students' Lounge in the basement of LaFortune. All new members are welcome. For more information contact Prof Loescher. 
-~ 


Just 5 minutes from Campus ~ -<-~ we offer free Consultation to help "~o~Cb _you brin!( out the toto/look ~..., 0.._v iu,st for _you as an individuol ~ 
phone 272-0312 272-8471 
across from Martin's ~~ Perm's and Bod_y on St. Rd. 23 W. 
~ aves 

Tues., Wed. 8:30-5:30~~V Thurs.,_Fri. ~:30-8:30 4(·-----------1
-SPECIAL-Sat. 8.30-5.30 ~ th T al L k I 
~., ~ For e ot oo I
•...._0 ~~~. Reg. Price with coupon I 
28
50
...... J" 1/ .,~ 3850 I
1 4500 3500 

. ~ I-<._-.?-~ I Perm's 55"' 45"' I ._________.•·-------·-(clip and save)..._.,__J 
ByJIM PLAMONDON 
News Staff 
jack Greenberg, the Director­Counsel for the NAACP Lt·gal Defense and Educational Fund, spoke on the history ofcivil rights in the United States yesterday after­noon. The program, entitled "Civil Rights in Retrospect and Prospect," was sponsored by the Center for Civil and Human Rights division of the Notre Dame Law School. 
Greenberg, an attorney of nation­al prominence who has been in­volved in nearly every civil rights case handled by the Supreme Court, gave a detailed summary of the im­
portant events, trials, and constitu­tional amendments which have had an impact on the struggle for equality for blacks. 
Greenberg focused on two doctrines that developed in the period from after the Civil War to the Civil Rights Act of 1964. First, he pointed to the states' rights and actions as a premise for the 14th Amendment. 
Greenberg also used the Plessy vs. Ferguson and Brown vs. the Board of Education cases to explain illegal discrimination and its causes. 
In addition, Greenberg spoke about the "intent and effect" aspect of discrimination, referring to 

whether segregation is specifically 
intended or simply happens. 
Finally, he dicussed affirmative ac­tion programs. He offered as an ex­ample universities, which now set quotas for the number of minorities accepted. 
Greenberg concluded his lecture with an "optimistic" view ofthe civil rights movement, predicting that "the law will accelerate" in its at­tempt to create equality among men. 
Greenberg will present another lecture today at 12: I') p.m. in room I 1 ') of the Law School. His talk will center on capital punishment. 
Protect Egypt 



AWACS begin Mid-East duties 
CAIRO, Egypt (AP) -Two AWACS spy planes from Oklahoma began surveillance on Egypt's bor­ders yesterday. President Hosni Mubarak swore in his holdover Cabinet, and Parliament enacted a new law to control internal dissent by prescribing the death penalty for unauthorized use ofweapons. 
The government blamed Libya for two b()mbings at Cairo Airport ear­lier in the week that killed a baggage handler and injured four people. 
In Moscow, the offiial Soviet news agt·ncy Tass rt~ported that President Leonid I. Brezhnev sent a message seeking improved Kremlin tics with the successor of President Anwar Sadat. 
The two Airborne Warning And Control Systems planes flew here nonstop from the United States and immediately began patrolling Egypt's northern,. southern and wes­tt•rn borders, said Gen. Ahmed Nasr, commander of Cairo West Military Airport. An Israeli official in Tel Aviv, who asked not to be identified, said 
Israel had no objection to the use of 
AWACS in Egypt . because, unlike those President Reagan wants to sell to Saudi Arabia, they "are not directed against us." Israel lies to the east of Egypt. 
U.S. officials said the AWACS were sent to Egypt to demonstrate con­fidence in Mubarak and will remain under the control of SO Americans assigned to fly and maintain them. 
Defense Minister Abdel Halim Abu Ghazala said an agreement reached after Sadat's assassination . Oct. 6 was "that two AWACS be sta­tioned here to watch over the north­ern, western and southern borders. We have not bought them... They arc here for the joint exercises (of U.S., Egyptian, Sudanese and unspecified Persian Gulf states' troops) that be~in in November." 
Egypt's 800-mile western border -most of it with Libya -is espe-1 cially tense. The two countries fought a border war injuly 1977 and Egyptian border forces have been on alert since. To the south ofEgypt lies Sudan. which has complained that Libya is attacking its western border from Chad. Libyan leader Moammar Khadafy has an estimated 18,000 troops in Chad and has said Sudanest· President Gaafdr Nimeiri will be the next Arab "traitor" to fall. 

State-run Egyptian TV said the A WACS would demonstrate· to Khadafy "that America stands beside us." Foreign Minister Kamal Has!>an Aly said in an interview with NBC TV here that the AWACS "will mean many things, not only to Khadafy, hut to the others who endanger the area as a whole, and it is a good sign of cooperation with Egypt and the United States, which is more needed 
these days." 
Aly also told NBC that Egypt blames Khadafy for two bombs that exploded in luggage taken ufl' a Mal­tese airliner at Cairo Airport on Tuesday, the day Egyptians voted for Mubarak to succeed Sadat. The flight originated in Libya and Egyptian offi­cials ~aid the bombs were set with timers. 

The Observer Friday, October 16, 1981 -page 4 

Pitgims and tourists cheer Pope john Paul II as "popemobile" during his weekly public audience he circulates through the crowds aboard his in St. Peter's Square. ( APphoto) 
RESUME OF A PROSPECTIVE EMPLOYER 
Standard Oil of California ·.; APPUCANT:
i 
225 Bush Street · · 94104 _, ADDRESS: San Francis.co,.Cah~ofr~ressional Employment 
Attn: Coordmator 0 · m to breathe, 
d a1ve them roo
inds we can filn ' .,.
Hire the best m take us. · 
OBJECTIVE: 

and see where they OF EXPERIENCE: 
ROM OUR 100 YEARS A FEW HIGHUGHTS F . lled a cable drill, 
· 80methmg ca 
Fred Taylor, usmg depth of 560 feet.
1880. hard-won
h
reaches t e ·1

k ives way to Ol • Roc g ocracking proc~ss~s,of the modern hydr . commerc1ahzed,
The firstd b Socal researchers, 1S f l oil demands 
1959. 
1967.

-. 
.1978. 

Former U.S. justice aids blind students 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Potter Stewart, who helped mold American law for 23 years on the Supreme Court, has turned in retirement to reading those cases aloud for the budding young lawyers who need most to hear them. 
After stepping down from the high court lastjuly 3, Stewart volun­teered as a reader at the Washington chapter of the non-profit Recording for The Blind Inc. 
The retired justice t·ecorded a dozen pages of a 255-page text called "The Rights of Aliens" on Thursday for William Poyner, a second-year student at ntioch Law School. 
Stewart, speaking in a Midwestern baritone, made his recording debut for the non-profit group last week with a reading from a book called "Assignments in Legal Research." 
The 66-year-old jurist calls the 
two-hour sessions challenging but 
rewarding, adding that the readings 
take a great deal ofconcentration. 
He says he is looking forward to 
reading again. 

His next a..o;signment is the 188­
page text of the .New York Penal 
Code. 


1982. but we've commlt 

year' e some. . 
uure there ar . alternative 
. . g . computer sclences, . enO'lneenn ,
Earth sCiences, e• 
· h and more.
ACTIVITIES: energy researc ' 
40,000 employees ':orldwide. REFERENCES: 

Chevron

Standard Oil Companyof California 
Chevron Family of Companies
•

An equal opportunity/affirmative action employer. 


See us when we visit your campus Nov. 2-3. 
deve~o~e Y omic response to ue 
rovldmg an econ 

pf the next 20 years. . 
or htha reformmg 
P witha nap
1 searchers come u . hich increases 
So<!a re alled Rheniformmg, wl ded gasolines. 
process c 't to produce un ea refinery capac1Y . d' ted by Socal . d installati?n. u~c · 
With construction ant ffshore ng m h1story 1S tral 
. eers the larges o h Atlantic. The cen . :~~l~d in~the tu_rbulent ~~f:ht ofthe Great Pyram1d, latform1S il/2 times the de object ever moved. 
P est man-ma 
1

and the arg ·n be this 
. h breakthroughs Wl . We don't know what t. ~ $2.8 billion to makmg 
Recording Center spokeswoman Judy Reis said Stewart has not worked out definite recording dates, in part because he is still sorting his schedule. 
Stewart read yesterday in a soundproof booth under the careful supervision ofanother volunt 
Edna Iingreen. 
Ms. Iingreen, who followed along with the same text and operated the recording machinery, is a retired senior trial lawyer with the justice Department's Antitrust Division. 
Stewart reads not only the texts of 
the various cases, but also the 
detailed footnotes often set out in 
tiny print. 
Law school textbooks are at the 
center of American legal education. 
They contain both court opinions 
and often lengthy commentary and 
citations to various cases. 
Ms. Reis said readers and their 
monitors must be experts in the 
field in which they are reading. She 
noted that where one reader leaves 
off, another picks up, so that any one 
reader may not finish a whole text. 
The spokeswoman said that a mas­
ter tape of Stewart's readings -as 
with all of the the chapter's record­
ings -will go to the Recording for 
the Blind headquarters in New York. 
Copies are then made available t 
other blind law students. 
One copy will be sent to Poyner, a 
resident ofWashington, D.C., where 
Antioch Law School is located. 

Recording for the Blind is a 30­. year-old private group that records and provides free taped cassettes o 
·educational textbooks to more than 
17,000 handicapped and blind 
people in all 50 states. 
• • • Focus 
continuedfrom page 1 
market precisely because it is new. Without an established staff of senior pilots and other officers, the salary tab for Mid Paciific is lower. The airline hasn't been burdened with "swollen management staffs," Haugen said. 
Operation costs are also kept low, Haugen said, because Mid Pacific is non-union and therefore does not have to meet the salaries being paid at Aloha and Hawaiian. 
Haugen said the turbo-props also save money, and he touted them as "the most economical way to fly dis­tances ofless than 400 miles." Aloha and Hawaiian use jet planes on their routes. 
Although Hawaiian and Mid Pacific say the air fare war appears to have eased oft; pending the start of the Christmas season, Aloha's Goto isn't so sure. 


Artist Series 
•

cont1nues 
University Artist Series continues its fall semester presentation with a performance by France's Duo Vox Nova at Sacred Heart Church Tues­day, Oct. 27, at 8:15 p.m. There will be a $2 admission charge at the door. 
Duo Vox Nova includes baritone· chanter Illo Humphrey and organist Claudine Pascal. The pair specializes in sacred liturgical music of the Judeo-Christian culture in its past, present, and future perspective. 
Duo Vox Nova visits Notre Dame as part ofa seven-week U.S. tour that began Oct. 1 in Boston and con­cludes in the Los Angeles area. 

The Observer
--------------------------------=F.:n::'day,October 16, 1981 -page 5 

95-0 vote 





Senate restores SS benefits 
WASHINGTON (AP) The The measure cleared unanimous­
change.Senate, reversing itselfon one of the 
ly only after Republicans crushed a The House later voted to restore 
year's most controversial budget Democratic-led attempt to increase 
the benefit for all three millic.n cur­cuts, voted 95-0 yesterday to restore 
taxes on the oil industry by more 

rent recipients. And last month, the minimum Social Security benefit 
than $14 billion and use the money 

Reagan asked Congress to restore of $122 a month for more than 2.5 
for the giant federal pension system. 

the benefit for most of them. Senate million recipients. 
Congress, acting on Reagan's re­

Democrats had tried unsuccessfully The bill also is designed to shore 
quest, voted earlier this year to 

on several occasions to do just that. up the sagging fund that pays for So­
abolish the minimum Social Security 

The measure will now go to a con­cial Security survivor and retire­
benefit beginning next March. 

ference committee where House ment benefits, in part by making sick 
Democrats fought bitterly against 

and Senate negotiators will attempt pay, in many cases, subject to payroll the move at the time, but Senate 
to work out the differences in the taxes for the first six months a Republkans used their new 
two bills. worker is off the job. 
majority strength to force the 

While final passage of the bill was a foregone conclusion, most of the debate centered on the proposal to raise taxes on the oil industry. 
U.S. sends military 
The vote was 65-30 to table, and thus kill, a proposal by Sen. Thomas Eagleton, 0-Mo., to repeal part ofthe "windfall profits" tax cut Congress

assistance to Sudan 
gave the oil industry earlier this these hurry-up deliveries, even in year. That cut was part of a bill
WASHINGTON (AP) The 
the relatively small numbers, the of­providing a three-year reduction in
United States plans to send Sudan 
ficial said. He stressed that Sudan's personal income taxes.
leaders believe they must show that Senate aides said they expected
and two jet fighters before the end of 
they are acting to defend the the bill to restore the minimum So­
this year to strengthen that 
country from Libyan incursions. cial Security benefit and help shore
country's defenses against threats 
He said there is fighting along the up the fund that provides old age
from Libya, a senior defense official 
Sudanese border with Chad, where and survivor benefits would winsaid Thursday. 
he estimated Libya has some 4,000 final passage either late yesterday or
This official, who asked that his 
troops, and "absolute evidence" of today.
name not be used, said, "We wish we 
Libyan air attacks on Sudanese Eagleton's plan would have raised
could do a lot more than that" in the villages. 
taxes on so-called newly discovered
short term, but those weapons, plus 
Noting that there are some 13,000 oil by an estimated $14.2 billion 
some lesser equipment, would just 
Cubans and 1,400 Russians in Et­thrugh 1990. The money would
about eat up the $100 million the New York bound, Sean O'Keefe anxiously awaits ride. As hiopia along Sudan's eastern flank, as have gone into a new Social Security
Reagan administration has asked of 
well as Ubyans in Chad on the wes­Reserve Trust Fund to provide a cus­midterms conclude today, most students will gratefully (and Congress for military aid to Sudan. 
tiredly) begin the trek home. (photo by Tonia Hap) "There is some svmbolism" in tern side of the country, this official hion for the financially · troubled said "the most clear and present program. military danger at the moment lies in "It is estimated that between 70
For literature Sudan," although the United States and 80 percent of this oil is also is concerned about possible produced by the top 50 oil com­Libyan threats to Egypt. panies, for whom the tax break is a The M-60A3 tanks, 105mm ar­pleasant, if gratuitous, bonanza," 
t.illery pieces and two-seater F-5F Eagleton said. fighters will come out of U.S. He also said his proposal was an military stocks. The number of attempt at beginning the 




Cannetti wins Nobel prize 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden (AP) -novels and memoirs written in Ger­$180,000 prize, his German publis­Americans, all technical and logis­'"dismantling" of the tax bill passedElias Canettl, a shy and reclusive man was cited by the Swedish her said. 
tics specialists, to be sent to Sudan earlier this year, which he described
Michael Samuel of the BBC's Bul­
Bulgarlan-born writer whose works Academy "for writings marked by a with the equipment would be "fairly as "the worst legislative abomina­
garian section said Canetti was so
reflect tht·mcs ofdeath and the Nazi broad outlook, a wealth of ideas and small," the official said. He did not tion in the history of the United
shy he refused to be interviewed. He
regime he fled, won the 1981 Nobel artistic power." 
say how small. States Senate." 
described the author as "really more Tht· 76-ycar-old author of plays, for five decades in European literary of a philosopher than a writer" who circles but his translated works have was strongly influenced by Franz sold only about 100,000 copies in Kafka. Samuel said Canetti was a the United States since the 1940s, prolific writer "at one time" but has 
Prize in literature Thursday. Canetti has been widely known 
according to his New York publis­not written anything in recent years. 
her, The Crossroad Publishing Com­Canetti, who lives in England and 
pany. is a naturalized British subject, has Publishers in London and West spent time in Switzerland and 
Chrysler 
distributes 
Germany said the 1>0ft-spoken, be­Austria, where he learned German. spectacled author who "looks like His literary background was Einstein with a great mane of white formed in Vienna, then the capital hair" shuns the limelight. He was city and a cultural haven ofthe dying

bonuses 
notified of the award Thursday by Austro-Hungarian Empire, which his agent in London, John Wolfcrs. also spawned such writers as RobertIJETROIT (AP) -Chryskr Corp. 
One report said he was at a Bavarian Musil and Sigmund Freud.
t·mployct·s in the United States will resort in West Germany with his Canetti's breakthrough came intind an extra S50 in their paychct·ks wife, but he could not be reached 1935 with the novei"Die Blcndung"today, representing "goodwill 
there. ("Auto-Da-Fe or The Tower ofbonust·s" as part of a special profit­"I have contacted him and he Babel"). One of his best-knownsharing bcnctit agreement between asked me to keep my mouth shut, so works is a memoir of his youth ­tht· company and the United Auto I'm keeping my mouth shut," Wol­"Die Gerettete Zunge," translatedWorkers union. 
fers said. "He is a very private man." into English as "The Tongue SetThe bonuses, which will go to In contrast to the 1969 Nobel Free: Remembrance of a European80,000 hourly and salaried workers literature winner Samud Beckett, Childhood" -which received spe­in the United States and Canada, will Canetti plans to attend the award cial mention by the Swedish cost Chrysler about $4 million, the 


ceremonies Dec. I 0 to pick up his Academy.
No. 3 auto-maker said. 
Company and union officials also arc ironing out the details of a spe­cial lottery to distribute 3,004 prizes to UAW members. The lottery and the bonuses will cost about 56 mil­lion. 
The bonus and lottery package was negotiated as part of a profit­sharing program agreed on by Chrysler and the UAW in July to compensate UAW members for the wage and benefit concessions they made to help Chrysler win federal loan guarantees. 
But the union pushed for the addi­
tional bonus and lottery package to 
help case workers' anger over raises 
given to Chrysler executives earlier 
this year. 
The profit-sharing program itself ntends through Dec. 31, 1983, and will distribute among UA W mem­bers at Chrysler I 5 percent of any Chrysler profits in excess of 10 per­cent oftht· company's net worth. 

MGH INSTITUTE OF HEALTH PROFESSIONS The academic unit of Massachusetts General Hospital 
The MGH Institute of Health Professions offers graduate level programs in nursing and social work especially designed for college graduates. 
The Nurse Clinician Program leads to a Master of Science degree in Nursing and prepares for R.N. licensure and specialized practice. 
The Social Work in Health Care Program leads to a graduate certificate after one year of study and prepares students for LSW A licensure and,.,:;pecialized practice in a variety of health settings as case assistants. 
MGH Institute of Health Professions Bartlett 410 Massachusetts General Hospital Boston, MA 02114 (617) 726-3140 
CkD eut flee 

OAKROOM 
CAFE •Soul 'DiliMg Hol'l'l 
Pay Ca6e 
For a late nite snack 
Nightly Specials Complete with a new 

jukebox 
open Sun.-Thurs 9 pm-ll am Fri-Sat 9 pm-ll am 



Features 
Friday, October 16, 1981 -page 6 
The New Establishment 
When I was a young priest, there was a kind of poetry about faith that I believed to be literal truth. In the year before priestly ordination, when r was a subdeacon, I ac­cepted the obligation of reciting daily the Roman Breviary. Each day, all ofus who were in Holy Or­ders recited psalms, prayers and readings in the Latin language for an hour or more. 
Saying the office, we were told, was the Lord's work; these Latin texts were the voice ofGod's Holy Spirit praying to Himself; be faith­ful to youc office, and you'll always be a good priest. I belM:ved what I Wll5 tokt without reservation. I tried never to be careless or bored by what I was doing, even when the meaning of the words was obscured by my inability to translate. 
In 1956, the office was shor­tened; in the years during the Council it was temporarily revised, and later, it was revised into the form we have now. Durin~ the time oi revision, we were allowed options: We could substitute other prayers for parts of the office, or we could read Scripture instead. 
After a while, it wasn't clear to me -and ro other priests, I think -what was expected of us. One fact became clear: Our dJ1·7 obliga­tion of prayer did not have to be glossed over by any romance of our singing lovesongs as the voice of the Pacaclete honoring Himself. 
Nowadays, I enjoy saying the office as a prayer of the Church, but the reality of what I am doing has been demythologized from the sublimities I believed in as a sub­deacon. 
As novices, we were taught a theology of the canonical vows of 
Fr, Robert Gritfin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
poverty, chastity ad obedience, 
which we were choosing to accept 
for life. After Vatican II, we were 
told in retreats that the old theol­
ogy of the vows was incorcoect, 
based on misreadings ofScripture. 
But here, said the retreat master, 
was a new theology which would 
justify our choice of being poor, 
chaste and obedient men. The 
obligations didn't change; only the 
reasons for the obligations. 

Personally, I think that there 
never was a real theology of the 
vows, but only opinions which call 
themselves theology. I am celibate 
as a priest because the Church in­
sists-on celibacy as a condition of 
my ministry; and the Church, irn its 
discipline, is both traditional and 
practical. My vows of obedience 
and poverty belong to the essence 
of a common lifestyle for· those 
belonging to a religious ·com­
munity. There are arguments 
touching on holiness that make 
sense ofthe way community mem­
bers l1ve. I will not permit those 
arguments to bind my soul as 
though they were creeds. 

To survive as a priest, it is neces­
sary to maintain a sense of humor. 
Humor is a form of grace which 
probably should be treated as a 
footnote in solemn treatises 
dealing with the theological virtue 
oflove. To laugh at yourself, when 
you are on the point of exploding 
with indignation and anger; to 
laugh at others, when they wolllld 
bear down on you with an invoked orthodoxy about as intolerant as the Grand Inquisitor's: For such laughter, necessary to salvation, you need an innerstrength ofresis­tance as great as that of martyrs about to be disemboweled for their faith. 
The laughter needed as sacramental should be neither cynical nor mocking nor derisive, coming, as it should, out of an ·amusement that is loving, tolerant and respectful. The people you are laughing at love the same things you love, and they labor in the cause of truth. But very plainly, in the renewed Church, heady with a sense offreedom, there has arisen a new breed of church person as solemnly pretentious as the layers spinning, out legalisms in the old Roman Curia. 
These church persons represent to me the figure of the New Es­tablishment. I cannot take them as 
· seriously as they take themselves, because I've already lived through it once. Whatever they tell me, I've been there before. 
The clerics ofthe New Establish­ment are beautiful in their sin­cerity. I am happy to learn from their bright, articulate scholarship. I wish they could be sympathetic with my personalsense ofdeja vu. 
I go into the chapel to say Mass. I can't find the candles which belong on the altar, and I'm left with the strong impression they've been hidden. Sensing there is a message here for me, I as questions ofan informed priest. 
"Nothing should be on the Euc­haristic table but the bread and wine for the Lord's Supper;" he said. "The candles should be free­standing, off the altar and on the floor." 
It w:as obviol.ls to both ofus that I had not been doing my homework. 
"Ifyou read the documents from the Bishops' Committee on Liturgy," he said, "you'd know these things." 
"I think I have a copy," I said. "I didn't look at it too closely." 
"The Bishops' Committee on Liturgy," he said, "is the voice of the American Presbyterate." 
He was right to be firm. Some of us old dinosaurs need to be rebuked. It is a grave fault in us to be inattentive to the voice of the American Presbyterate. 
'Next time," I said, in tones as chastened as I could make them, "don't hide things on me. I'm ig­norant, but I'm always ready to learn." 
When I was a young priest, if there were not two lighted candles on the altar, the celebrant was guilty of sin. Wapelhorst and For­tescue, respected liturgists, said so. Noldin and ]one, widely read moralists, concurred. If neither candle was lit, the sin was mortal; if only one candle was lit, the sin was venial. I remember feeling anxious when the wind played tricks on the altar. 
Actions -in liturgy or living ­are as important as the truth they express. Symbols carry the meanings we assign them. In a community ofworship, it is neces­sary to agree on our symbols and sacred actions. But it is not kind to blast an old nun placing flowers near the tabernacle with the thundering voice of the American presbyterate. The new orthodoxy needs to be gentle with the old or­thodoxy, and that kind of gentle­ness, I think, is called tolerance. 
The Church today is beautiful, as always, but you have to take it with a grain ofsalt. All we can see ofthe Church is its Human Element. Everything else are signs signifying a mystery. Some ofthe Human Ele­ment, hearing commandments from an inner Sinai and smashing altars and icons on the way down the mountain, has to justify itselfin the name of Authority which puts an end to discussion. 
Human Elements constantly re­quire redemption. Laughter can be redemptive. It is healthy for es­tablishments to laugh at them­selves. All of us ace such funny, 
funny people. Some seminarians were divided in their opinions as to whether Monday should be ob­served as a meatless day at the seminary table. "It's the least we can do," some said, "to show our 
solidarity with the hungry people in the Third World." Others said, "No, abstinence from meat should be a private choice; maybe everyone could do it together every other Wednesday." 
An old priest asked: "Whatever happened to Fridays and the fast days ofLent?" 
It was hard for Catholics to keep the discipline, he was told. Anyway, that was institutional. But certainly, it was only the selfish people who wouldn't go meatless on a Monday or an occasional Wednesday? 
Some of us old dogs think it's very funny when we find ourselves trying to learn new tricks. We hope we are not the only ones laughing in these days of the New Establish­ment. 
The Beach Boys •• Remarks of aRebel 
I haven't been to a rock concert Likewise, the concert last Friday in years. But then this wasn't exact­night by The Beach Boys revealed
Stephen Fredman 
ly a rock concert. My image of a something new to me about the 
rock concert stretches from my process of maturation. 
own experiences in junior high The performance was, in a
Feature 
curious way, an authentic one ­
in local recreation halls and gyms, though not such as would have 
to early concerts by Bob Dylan and satisfied a '60s audience. Although and high school, playingfor dances a common emotional and social
The Rolling Stones, to the psyc­The Beach Boys sang their famous 
tenor: rebellion.

hedelic era at San Francisco's Fil­songs about cars and surfboards lmore and Winterland ballrooms, Rebellion, defiance, exclusion of and "California Girls," about The Establishment: groups like adolescent rebellion and the 
to what everyone at the time felt The Rolling Stones, The Beach search for the identity, one could was the demise of Rock and Roll at Boys and The Beatles symbolized hardly call the rendition of thesethe lethal Altamont concert. This these attitudes. But the times have songs of15 to 20 years ago genuinewide spectrum of musical events changed and we, the musicians and "self-expression." They were ac­paralleled the course of my adoles­
ting. No one believed that Mike 
cence in the '60s: the embarrassing their audience, have aged. Nothing 
Love or Bruce Johnston, through
beginnings, the prophetic reminds me more starkly how the 
their voices, their dancing or their
promise, the ecstatic fruition and times have changed than rny 
comic acrobatics, portrayed their
the abrupt awakening. recent conferences with freshmen, 
current life or their current values:
These concerts and the era for nealy all ofwhom tell me they plan 
it was make-believe, a kind of
which they spoke so forcefully had to enroll in the College ofBusiness. (Photos by Cheryl Ertelt)
theatre. 
So in one sense the audience lost togetherness, fostered mutually by feelings about The Beach Boys. I an element of urgency, of self­the crowd and the musicians. The was drawn to their music and yet I assertive necessity in the music, content of the songs was mythical, ridiculed it. The Beach Boys were · such as was. provided in less­no longer topical to those who the epitome ofsurfing and the sur­memorable contrast by the sang it or those who listened and fers were the "in crowd," with a opening group, Red Ryder. On the sang along so far away from a macho status beyond even that of 
other hand, what was gained, and California summer. A remarkable football players. I wanted that 
what obviously drew this extreme­transformation has occurred in status but I wanted it on my own 
ly diverse crowd of NO students, this music, one of which The terms; and so The Beach Boys 
South Bend teenagers, the many of Beach Boys are aware: from songs came to represent a prestige I both 
us from The Beach Boys' genera­about a very particular time, place wished for and disdained. 
tion, and even a few white-haired and set of attitudes, arrayed in ~-Last Friday night l heard The matrons such as the enthusiastic seductive harmonies, these songs Beach Boys in person for the first grandmother Jhad the privilege of have become true folk music, their time; I was heartened to realize accompanying, was the univer­melodies impressed upon our how, through the sheer endurance sality which the music has come to memories and their words now of these songs and the continuing acquire over the years. this was representing events in the realm of good-natured delivery of them by not, in my sense of it, a Rock con­legend. · the singers, my own early conflicts, cert; this was a Folk Music concert. I can remember clearly the first rebellions and attempts to find a The audience knew the songs as Beach Boys record, because it was true identity had been transmuted well as the performers did and the first album I ever bought. I was into a lasting expression of an im­came to sing along. The ambiance a seventh grader in Southern portant stage in the universal 
of the occasion was one offun and California and had strongly mixed pcocess of maturation. 




Sports Briefs 
Friday, October 16, 1981 -page 7 
by The OhsertJer and The Associated Prnr 
Notre Dame's Cross Country team travels to 
West Lafayette, Ind., today to compete in the Indiana Big State Meet. Irish Head Coach joe Piane hopes his team will break into the top two in the 22-team meet but admits his runners will have to improve on last Saturday's performance when they were shutout by Florida State. Ed Willenbrink, Marc Wozniak, Tim Cannon, Andy Dillon, Tim Novak, Tim Bartrand and co-captain Tony Hathecly will represent Notre Dame in the meet. -The Observer 
Three lawyersfrom New York City will be panelists for a Sports and Entertainment Law Forum to be held at Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Education on Friday, November 6. The morn­ing session will run from 10 a.m. to 12 noon, and the afternoon ses­sion will begin at 2 p.m. and conclude at 4 p.m. The three panelists 
will be Seymour Peyser, Richard Zahnd and Sidney Bluming, all of whom are specialists in this expandingfield oflaw. Peyser has served as Vice-President ofand General Counsel to United Artists Corpora­tion. Zahnd is General Counsel to Madison Square Garden Corpora­tion, the parent company that owns and operates the New York Knicks and Rangers. Bluming once represented the New York Yankees. -The Obseroer 
John Hollinden, the 7-6 basketball star at Indiana State-Evansville last year, has regained feeling in his legs after suffer­ing severe injuries in an automobile accident last month. Hollinden, who was the tallest player in the nation last year, suffered crushed vertebrae when his sports car left the road late in the evening of September 25. The accident occurred just two weeks before Hollin­den was scheduled to leave to play professional basketball in Sweden. -AP 
Tom Watson sank an 80-foot birdie putt on the final hole yesterday to complete a 64 and take the first-round lead in the $200,000 Pensacola Open Golf Tournament. Watson leads fellow rivals Bruce Lietzke, Tom Kite and Ray Floyd, all of whom are seeking the coveted PGA Player of the Year award along with the money-winning title. Watson, who trails Kite by SI8,434 on the money list, has captured both titles the last four years. -AP 
Classifieds 
Sunday's Games

H::::\iFOOTBA LL?> 
Buffalo at N.Y. Jets Houston at New England New Orleans at Cleveland Philadelphia at M1nnesota 

NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE Pittsburgh at Cincinnati St. LOUIS at Atlanta San Francisco vs Green Bay at Milwaukee NATIONAL CONFERENCE Washington at Miam1E..t San D1ego at Baltimore w L T Pet. PF PA Tampa Bay at OaklandPhiladelphia 6 0 01.000 140 67 N.Y. Giants at Seattle Dallas 4 2 0 .667 140 123 Denver at Kansas City N.Y. Giants 3 3 0 .500 105 97 Los Angeles at Dallas, nSt. Louis 2 4 0 .333 108 151 Monday's Game Wash1ngton 1 5 0 .167 101 156 Chicago at DetrOit, n 
Centre! Minnesota 4 2 0 .667 136 146 Tampa Bay 4 2 
0 .667 117 90 Next Sund.ly'a Gemea2 4 0 .333 118 126Detroit Baltimore at Cleveland Green Bay 2 4 0 .333 106 140 Cincinnati at New Orleans Chicago 1 5 0 .167 89 133 Denver at Buffalo Green Bay at Detroit Kansas Crty at Oakland 

Weal 
Los Angeles at San Francisco Los Angeles 4 2 0 .667 160 131 Miami at Dallas San Franc1sco 4 2 0 .667 157 120 Minnesota at St. Louis Atlanta New England at Washington 
3 3 0 .500 157 115 
New Orleans 1 5 0 .167 64 136 New Yort< Giants at Atlanta San Diego at Ch1cago Seattle at New York Jets Tampa Bay at Philadelphia 
Next Mond.ly'a o ..... AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
Houston at Pittsburgh 

Eaat w L T Pet. PF PA Miami 4 1 1 .750 142 114 Buffalo 4 2 0 .667 158 88 
N.Y Jets 2 3 1 .417 129 169 New England 1 5 0 .167 130 149 :~~rf/R?HOCKEY~~l~-:Baltimore 1 5 0 .167 106 186 
CentreI Cincinnati 4 2 0 .667 153 131 Pittsburgh 4 2 0 .667 141 111 
Yeaterdey'a Results Houston 4 2 0 .667 115 
99 

Detroit 6, St. Louis 3 Cleveland 2 4 0 .333. 88 127 
Montreal 7, Hartford 2 Philadelphia 5, Washington 2 

Weal N.Y. Islanders 4, Vancouver 1 Denver 5 1 0 .833 133 75 Calgary 5, Winnipeg 4 San D1ego 4 2 0 .667 193 153 Los Angeles 6, Colorado 1 Kansas City 4 2 0 .667 151 132 Tod.ly'a Gemea Oakland 2 4 0 .333 63 89 Calgary at Edmonton SeattiP 1 5 0 .167 85 136 Boston at Colorado 
• • .ND-USC 
continuedfrom page 12 

yards and two touchdowns passing. ND went on to a Il-l recor.d and an other National Championship. 
November 25, 1978, at LA ­USC 27, ND 25: 
USC led 17-3 at halftime and 24-6 at the end ofthe third quarter. That's when the action started. On Notre Dame's first possession of the fourth quarter, Montana threw a 57-yard pa~s to Kris Haines for a touchdown to make it 24-12. With seven minutes left, Notre Dame embarked on a 98-yard scoring drive aided by passes to Haines, Dean Masztak and K~n MacMee, to close the deficit to 24-19. The defense held and ND 
regained the ball on its own 43 with 
1:35 left. A long pass to Vagas Fer­
guson and an interference call g~ the ball to the 12-yard line. From there, Montana found Pete Holohan in the end zone to give the Irish a 
25-24Iead with only 46 seconds left. The Trojans took to the air and with 19 seconds left completed a 35-yard 
pass to the ND 24. One more play and a time out set up a 37-yard field goal with two seconds left. After an 
incredible fourth quarter and a mar­velous performance by both clubs, USC won 27-25. 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or through the l'!lail. 
NOTICES 

USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED., SAT. SUN. 9-7 CASPERSON, 1303 BUCHANAN RD., NILES. 
USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought. sold, searched ERASMUS BOOKS. Tues-Sunday. 12-6.1027E. Wayne(One block south of Eddy-Jefferson Intersec­tion) 
OVERSEAS JOBS Summer/year round Europe, S.Amer . Australia. As1a. All helds $500-$1200monthly. Sightsee­Ing Free 1nlo. Wnte IJC, Box 52-IN-4, Corona Del Mar. CA 92625. 
WANTED Babys11ter lor 2 1/2 year old lor WED AND/OR Sat. even1ngs one mile from campus. Own transpertat1on prelerred $1 00/hr KEEP TRYING CALL 277·0477 
ILOST/FOUND I 
LOST a two lone blue sweat Jacket Roward, call V1nce x 1238 
TO WHOMEVER FOUND MY CHECK­BOOK I HAVE STOPPED ALL THE CHECKS. THEY ARE NO GOOD TO YOU MY NAME IS ON THE CHECKS, YOU KNOW WHO I AM PLEASE EITHER RETURN THE CHECKBOOK TO THE NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION OR CALL ME AT 287-7157. 
LOST A GREEN 60/40 PARKA SHELL JACKET. IT IS FOREST GREEN, HAS A HOOD, AND IS MONOGRAMMED 
SET" ON THE BREAST POCKET IT WAS A GIFT FROM MY LATE SISTER AND HAS GREAT SENTIMENTAL AS WELL AS PRACTICAL VALUE. IF YOU HAVE INFORMATION ABOUT THE JACKET. OR IF YOU HAVE THE JACK­ET. PLEASE CALL SCOTT AT 287·7157 NO OUESTIIONS ASKED! 
Losl my keys! keynng has name 1ns1de ol green shamrock Losl them last tuesday Please help II need to chack my ma1ll Call E11een al5129 
I JUSt wan I to thank the person who took my Jacket from the d1mng hall and tned to sell it back to me. I was willing to pay you for 1t. but twice you never showed up. If you are the same person who called up and did lhe same thing to the girl w1th the purse and the kid with the sweatshirt, I th1nk that I speak lor all of us in say1ng that you are probably the lowest form of life that can exist 
I don't understand whal you are go1ng to do w1th a 1acket like mine because you certamly can't wear it and nobody else but me would buy it from you. II you still have my Jacket or any of the other stuff, I hope that you will seriously consider giving it to lost & found, or arrang1ng to return it. I cant understand how playing games like this turns you on, but your cheap thnlls have come at the exp8nse or others. I hope !hat soon you will sit back and JUSt think about how low you have been stoop1ng. You are nothing but a loser 
FOUND: Camera tripod, 1dent1fy & claim, call6614 
lost. Man s wnstwatch, between lnl~rmary & Hayes-Healy. Has great sentimental value Lost Fri. 10/9 Please call Dan, x3402 
I WILL BUY back my GREEN DOWN VEST from whoever stole 1t out ol O'Shag on 9/21 NO questions asked It's old and ralty but It's the only thing I got till DEC. break. PLEASE call AI, 6760 
Found A Black pop up umbrella on off­campus shuttle m early Oct. Owner hves 1n Campus V1ew. To claim, call Mark late at 233-2969 
I.___FO_R_R_EN_T____.) 
One bedroom. furnished apt. near NO Newly decorated, pnvate entrance, $165/month. Call255-8505 or 259-4629. 
Furnished House.. N1ce area.. Walk to ND.. J1m 3234 
FurniShed House. N1ce area . Walk to ND.. J1m 3234 
Share house 1n walk1ng distance from NO with 3 grad stud. 1 bedroom 75$. Call 288-0431. 
L--1_W_A_NT_ED___I 
NEEDED: Law student w1th Insurance license to market ABA/LSD group in· surance plan 
Need nde to Minneapolis for October break. Like to return lor USC game. Will share expenses.Call1338. 
I NEED 3-5 S. CAL. STUDENT TIX OR G.A.'S CALL MIKE at 2197 
I need 1 Navy GA call Dan 8886 
COLUMBUS. OHIO is where I am bound on October 30. I can take 3 riders so if you want to see the Buckeyes or JUSt VISit the bars on High street, call MONICA at 41­5802. I'll be returning to good'ole South Bend around 10 p.m. November 1. 
FOR SALE 
ATTENTION 
PHOTOGRAPHERS FOR SALE: An Omega B-22 enlarger w1th copy stand and 36" column. This is JUSt the condenser head and copy stand No lanse Included. but head takes any standard Omega enlarger lense. Pnce. $25. Call John Macor at 1715 or8661 and leave your name and number. 
FOR SALE. ONE ARKIE MAJOR NAMED CHERYL. HIGHEST BIDDER CALL283-4629 FOR DETAILS. 
L--1_T_IC_KE_TS_
.........__.J
..... , 
Penn St. hcket wanted please call Donna at6771 
W1ll pay top $tor NO-USC game tickets. Need 6 t1ckets. best locat1on ava1lable Please call collect (714) 835-6505 ask tor Tony Herenda or. Jud1 Carlos 
need three GAs lor USC please help call3691 
DESPERATELY NEED USC TIX. CALL PETE 233-8091 NEED 2GA USCTIX. CALL JOHN 1001. 
Need 2 GA TECH G.A. ·s. Will trade 2 NAVY G.A.'s or pay CASH ALEX--x6931 
DESPERATELY NEED TWO USC STU­DENT TIX-BROTHERS WILL KILL IF THEY DONT SEE GAME.CALL CHRIS AT 1678. 
WILL PAY UP TO $50-60 (OR MORE) FOR USC GA'S. CALL CHRIS 1222 BEFORE BREAK PLEASE!! 
DESPERATE lor 2 or 4 GA USC tickets. Call M1ke at 1435. 
I NEED 2 OR 3 USC TICKETS. CALL JASPER AT 1744 OR 1748. 
FOR SALE. USC STUDENT TICKET CALLJOHN 8467 
HAVE 6 USC/NO GA'S. CALL TRISH 41­4875 
BIG TIME HELP NEEDED: I JUSt need ONE USC GA. I got the money 1f you got the ticket. Fran 4385 
Parents need one (1) GA NAVY t1cket lor my little brat brother CALL Ken at 8600 
HELP! Parents need USC GAs Pay MUCH $$ Call 283-8598 or next week. 317·457-5607 
I need 3 GAs lor Georg1a Tech. Call Larry 1809 
DESPERATELY NEED. tickets lor USC. PLEASE call Tom ai8906 or Bob at 8898 WILLING TO PAYIIIII 
NEED 2 OR MORE GA'S FOR USC call Eileen 4-1 -4420 
2 USC TIX NEEDED. CALL COLLECT (304) 258-2435 
NEED 2 TIX TO USC GAME. WILL PAY PREMIUM PRICE. CALL COLLECT (714) 528-3687 AFTER 5 P.M 
NEED 2 USC GA'S. WILL PAY$$. CALL ED 1072 
PLEASE HELP!I!!I I Need Many NAVY T1x-Will Pay BIG BUCKS or Will Trade my valuable USC GAs. Please Call Michael al16151 

Need. GA tickets lor USC; could also use student tickets. Have two GA's and would be Interested 1n trad1ng my pair tor your three and pay you the difference for the third. Call Dave I. at 3546 or 291-2853 begmmng Fri. afternoon and we can work someth1ng out. 
We need Navy G.A. 's Call M1ke (1175) or Chris(ll78) 
PAIR OF USC GA'S NEEDED CALL PAUL AT 1678 
HAVE STUD TIX FOR ALL HOME GAMES,PLUS EXTRA USC. HIGHEST BIDS BEFORE BREAK Frank. 1229 
will pay b1g bucks lor usc ga tix. call277~ 7533. 
TICKETS FOR USC NEEDED!!INeed 2 GA S lor parents who have never seen NO game and 1 STUDENT TIX tor s1ster Please help-will pay $$$.Call Michele 2721.Thanks 
BLOOD AND GORE! If I don't gel2 GAs tor any home game Will pay b1g bread Especially need USC. KEVIN 8214 
NEEDED! AI leasl 4 USC GA tickets lor my fam1ly Please contact Colleen al 41· 4408.
I PERSONALS I 
I need a nde to M1lwaukee on today. (after my 2mwl class) and back sometime Sunday. Will m1ss good lnend·s wedding otherw1se. I am also looking lor a nde to Milwaukee or Mad1son and back almosl any weekend 
call Deirdre at 8013. II you can't reach me at a decent hour, call at an 1ndecent one--I'm hard to reach. 
BAGPIPES Whal are they? How do they work? Whatis worn under the kilt? Should Notre Dame have a p1pe band? For the answers lo these and other quest1ons (or it you 1ust want to learn to play the bagp1pe--no mus1cal expenence re­qwred). come to a meet1ng October 27 at 6:30 PM 1n F1tzpatnck 356 Expenenced DRUMMERS 1n1eres1ed 1n a demonslra~ t1on of the 1nt11cate style ol p1pe band drumm1ng are also encouraged to attend II Interested 1n either p1p1ng or drumm1ng but unable to be at th1s sess1on, call8878. 
'SIMON' 

the touching story of a Father and his 
mouse... 

TYPING! Fast. accurate typ1ng at 
reasonable rates. Call Lynn Saylor. 233· 
3423. 

EXPERIENCED TYPIST· Resumes$12, term papars/thes1s $25; m1sc. 75 cents page or ask lor quote. 233-5861 after 6 p.m. 
GREG-WHY DO YOU HATE ME? 
H1 Lynne-Have a fun break (gel John to make you •· some lree load) and blow off the Tnb lor a week. M1ss ya 
TO ALL THE BEAUTIFUL WOMEN STAYING AT NO FOR BREAK, STOP BY FOURTH FLOOR ZAHM FOR DRINKS AND CASUAL SEX-CALL 1678 OR JUST STOP BY WHEN YOU GET THE URGE I 
HAPPY 19TH JENNY GRANTHAM! 
HAVE A GREAT BREAK! LOVE THE 
QUAD 
My dear TOMMY WILLY. 

So you'll be 19 on the 19th --HAPPY 
BIRTHDAY! Te amo. m1 canss1me Love. 
Suzy 

MOLLY Gill A 1ug ol w1ne, French bread. 
sunshine and you. well, three out of lour 
ISn't bad I 
Homeward bound 
I WISh I was 

The girlS of 2·N Lew1s would like to thank 
the men ol 3rd floor St. Ed's(N1ck1 s Sec­
han) lor mak1ng our first PORTA· 
BROWNIE a success. Where w1111t stnke 
aga1n? This question posed on the sphere 
of lime remams unanswered 
TOM. 

HAVE A GREAT BREAK! HOPE YOUR 
FOOT DOESN'T HURT TOO MUCH I'M 
REALLY GONNA MISS VA REST UP 
BECAUSE ROUND TWO WILL JUST BE 
GETTING UNDER WAY. LOVE YA 
TONS ADELE 

Editorial Board and Department Managers
====IheJD~~~==== 
Editor·in-Chief..............................john McGrath Photo Editor........................................john Macor
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Executive News Editor.........................Kelli Flint

The Observer is an independent Editorials represent the opinion of a 
News Editor ..................................Tim Vercellotti 

newspaper published by the studc:nts of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
News Editor............................. David Rickabaugh Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint taries, opinions and letters are the views of Mary's College. It does not nc:cessarily their authors. Column space is available to 
Sports Editor ..............................Michael Ortman Contro/let·.............................................joe Multlur .. reflect the policies of the administration of all membc:rs ofthe community, and the free Features Editor..........................Anthony Walton Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen either institution. The news is reported as expression of varying opinions on campus, SMCExecutive Editor...........Mary Agnes Carey Production Manager...................Michael Monk accurately and as objectivdy as possible. through letters, is encouraged. SMCNews Editor......................Cathy Domanico Circulation Manager .............Tom Mac Lerman 
The Observer-Sports Friday, October 16, 1981 -page 8 

Montreal Expo pitcher Ray Burris has given his team the ad­vantage in the National League Championship Series because of hisfour-hit shutout ofLosAngeles on Wednesday. See story below. (APphoto) 
any one interested in being the =1981-1982= NOTRE DAME HOCKEY TEAM MASCOT 

~CD~TI' IPIE~CE-~ 
\~

contact: ,,. 
len Moher -assistant coach ~~­at 8488 or 8416 
~ ~­
..................,....................................... 
PINOCCHIO'S PIZZA PARLOR 
-Hours Fast Delivery Servic 
Mon-Thurs 11 am-12 pm 
277-4522


Fri-Sat 11 am-1 :30 am Sun 4 pm-11 pm 

-Beer Specials 
Every Nite 8:00-10:00 $1.75 Pitcher $.50 Mug 
-HAPPY HOUR 
Mon-Frl 4 pm-6 pm Fri-Sat 8 pm-12 am 4 tt wide screen TV 

PLEASE-one coupon per pizza 
E 

s
N emmons 

his coupon good 1 This coupon good #"~ ]
----------~-----------d1 T 
·~ 
tor one I tor one 11 ~t-0~ t 
juniper 

LARGE PIZZA I MEDIUM PIZZA I "'!'; ~ 
$1.00 OFF I $.75 OFF I '~ 
w

expires 10-30-s·~l expires10-30-81 1 
-----------____________,...________... 
Pozderac steady amidst changes 
By CHUCK GREENE  complexities of the offense that are  
Sports Writer  just starting to be understood are a  
big part of the problem, but other  
As  the  USC  game  grows  ever  than that, I can't seem to put my fin- 


closer, it becomes increasingly ap­parent that the play of the Irish of­fense must improve for Notre Dame to have any chance of winning. One of the crucial areas that will be tested against the Trojans is the of­
fensive line, led by senior Phil Poz­derac. 
Pozderac, a 6-9, 260-pound tackle, has not played as well as he expected to so far this season. "Like everyone else, I'm still trying to mas­ter this new offense," he says. "Of course. I know all of my blocking as­signments by now, but there are so many little things that I'm just start­ing to realize this offense can ac­complish." 
Coming to Notre Dame out of Garfield Heights, Ohio, Pozderac has seen a lot. of change in his four seasons here. "I guess I've learned to deal with different people more than anything else," says the big senior. "Along with learning the offense, which was challenging enough, I had to play for different line coaches in my first two seasons. 
"Then, when I finally mastered the ~ffense and the different coaches, I had only last season in that system. Coach (Gerry) Faust came in and it was like starting all over again." Also, Pozderac has made the change from playing be­hind all-American Tim Foley his first two seasons here to starting the past two seasons. 
This season'searly problems seem to baffle Pozderac just as they do the rest of the team. As he puts it, "After the third game (Michigan State), I thought that we finally had things to­gether, but we don't. I think the 
Phil Pozderac 

Pozderac also expressed his feeling that Coach Faust is putting a lot of unnecessary pressure on him­selfbecause he wants to do well. "He is trying to do to many things at one time," Pozderac says, "_but as he 
NL Championship moves to Montreal 
MONTREAL (AP) A remarkable pitchi.ng performance by Ray Burris may have removed the underdog label from the Montreal Expos as they return home for tonight's third game of the National 
The Best in 
Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations 
Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00 P.M. Closed Sundays & Holidays 

begins to understand college foot­ball more and more, his mistakes will become fewer and fewer. 
"It's so hard to say anything bad about him, he's such a nice guy." 
As far as the USC game is con­cerned, Pozderac says not to count the Irish out just yet. The rivalry it­self will make it close, according to Phil, who also says, "We have the personnel to beat them, but we'll have to play ball-control offense, keeping our defense off the field, to be successful." 
The future: could bring many dif ferent things for Phil Pozderac. but right now it looks like pro football is a strong possibility. "The pros like my size, and I'd like to play proft:s­sionally," he says. "One of my wc:aknesses is the fact that scouts think I'm not strong enough, but that doesn't worry me much, because I'll get stronger." 
Before the pros can have Poz­derac, he has to finish his career here first. Notre Dame fans will see next weekend how accurate his predic­tions for USC are, but for now they hope that Phil and the offense can get it together and play as well as it is able to. 
League Championship Series against the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
In fact, the Expos might be favored over the veteran-laden Dodgers going into Friday night's 
.contest in Olympic Stadium 
The best-of-five series stands tied at one game apiece with all the future action in Montreal, where the 
cool weather might work to the ad­vantage of the Expos. They boast the league's best home record of 38-18 this season. 
Manager Jim Fanning, more than pleased with the 3-0 victory that the 31-year-old Burris posted in Game Two ~'ednesday night, said, "If we had left Los Angeks any worse than 1-1, our backs woutd be fully against the wall." 
Now, hl.' has ace Steve Rogc:rs to pitch against Jerry Reuss of the Dodgers in the third game, scheduled to start at 8:20p.m. EDT. 
Rogers beat the Philadelphia Phillies twice in the NL East Division championship~. while the left­handed lkuss won the final game of the Wc:st playoffs against Houston to put the Dodgers into this league title 
set. Rookie left fit:lder Tim Raines. who hit safely three times in Wed­nesday night's game, commented. "I've seen Reuss just once and I think I had three hits offhim. "I don't think cold weather would have any effect on us. We've been playing there all year. I think we've got an advantage because we've been playing in Montreal." Raines, who hit .304 during the strike-restricted regular season with 71 stolen bases, was activated for the Championship Series having recovered from a broken hand. Manager Tommy Lasorda of the Dodgers didn't think any weather conditions would affect his club. "We weren't able to generate any offense in that second game and I've never seen Burris pitch that well." Nobody could ren'ember when the veteran right-hamkr had last thrown a nine-inning shutout. Searching the record books, it was determined he last did it with the Chicago Cubs against Houston on May 3, 1977. Losing p1tchc:r Fernando Valen­zuela, in his rookie season, had led the National League with eight shutouts. but he commented. ":"'obudy can win them all." 
... 

Friday, October 16, 1981 -page 9
The Observer -Sports 


• • • Zavagnin 
General manager 
Green says 'yes' to Cub post 
CHICAGO (AP) -Dallas Green, who managed the Philadelphia Phillies to their first world cham­pionship in 1980, officially became general manager and executive vice president of the Chicago Cubs Thursday. 
Green, who had been groomed for the same position with the Phillies, was introduced by Andrew 
J. McKenna, chairman and chief ex­ecutive officer of the Cubs since they were purchased by Tribune Co. from William Wrigley last summt:r. 
"Green's backround is consistent with the criteria t:stablished for the job he is assuming," said McKenna. "It was considered important that the candidate have a background in playt:r development and come from a winning organization. Grct:n will have complete authority in the operation ofthe club." 
Terms of Grt:en's contract or its kngth wt:re not revealed, hut it was belit:vl·d to bt: long term and lucrativt:. 
Green, 47, originally turned down the Cub offt:r but said that "Andy was very persistent. 
"I'm no Messiah but I guarantee nobody's going to outwork us," said Green. "It's intriguing and exciting. If I didn't think I could do the job, I wouldn't be here today." 
Green, who has bct:n in tht: Phillies organization for 27 years, said there wert: similarities between the .Cubs oftoday and the Phillies of 1972 who finished 33 games behind the leader. 
"This is a big moment in my life and, hopefully, a big moment in Cub history," said Green, who left his op­tions open as to hiring a field manager. Rumor has it Lee Elia, his third base coach at Philadelphia, will get the job currently held by Joey Amalfitano. 
"I want to talk to Joey face to fact: first and then I'll make my decision," said Green, who expects to meet with Amalfitano early next week. 

continuedfrom page 12 
Bob Watson led offthe inning, and his fly ball to the wall in right field may have bet:n an omen. Keough had thrown 70 pitches through four innings, and nothing looked easy for the A's right-hander. The next bat­ter, Rick Cerone, grounded to third, and that gave Randolph his oppor­tunity. 
He had not hit a home run since April 28, but this one mort: than made up for it. 
Righetti also struggled in the early going as the A's had runners in scoring position in each of the first three innings. But he settled down, retiring the final seven batters he faced before he was lifted in favor of Davis. 
Davis, who struck out three in 1 1/3 innings of relief in Game One of this series, retired six straight before Gossage came on in the ninth. 
In his stint, Righetti struck out four and walked two, yielding four singles. His worst inning was the second, when he allowed con­secutive one-out singles to Kelvin 

• Yanks 
Moore and Dave McKay. But he 
struck out Jeff Newman, and Rob 
Picciolo grounded into an innin~ 
ending forceout, a., Oakland's best 
threat went by tht: boards.· 
It was never, by any means, a pitchers duel, and the drama of this final game of the series was diminished even further by the ab­sence of the man who calls himself "the straw that stirs the drink," the Yankees' Reggie Jackson. 
Jackson was scratched from the starting lineup because of an injury he sustained merely by running onto the field in Wednesday afternoon's game at Yankee Stadium. Jackson strained te muscle in his left calf, ap­parently just by steppingon it wrong and he felt soreness in it again Thursday. 
In the end, it was the Yankees, th~ big kid on the block, who prevailed, the triumph of Bully Ball over Billy ' Ball. Now, the Yankees await the winner of the Montreal-Los Angeles series, which resumes Friday night in Montreal tied at one victory apiece. 
Grt:t:n said it was a. very diflit.:ult decision for him to kave the Phillics, who art: run by General Manager Paul Owens and have bt:en put up for sale by ownt:r Ruly Carpentn 
"I have sincere appreciation h>r what Ruly has done for mt: and mv family," said Grt:cn, "and Pa~l Owens and I grew up together. But I have to close my era with the Phillies and go on with the Cub~." 
Green fielded qut>stions ;tbnut free agents, lights in Wrigley Fit :o, possiblt: trades and bringing h,>n:e­run hitters to the cozy hallpark 
"The frec-agt:nt era is hen· and you have to live with it," said (irn·n. 

"I'm not ruling out free agents but tht: money is available. That you can't win playing all day games is an interesting theory. tights arc not a first priority right now, other things arc more important. I have a strong theory that if you are in decent ~ shape you can handle July and August playing day games. 
"Bill Buckner is not going anywhere if I can help it. Everyone loves homt: runs but you still have to play the game. We want athletes who can do a lot of things and not wait for home runs, or a situation wht:re if there arc no home runs you lose hall games." 
continuedfrompage 12 
Zavagnin is more than ready to meet the challenge. 
''They're powerful, there's no doubt about that," he says. "I don't think they'll fool around with the pass too much, either. They'll take it right to us. 
"It's going to be an all-out battle in the trenches. I think if we can con­trol both lines ofscrimmage that we have an excdknt chance of beating IISC." 
Contrary to the concensus of the student body, Zavagnin feels that this season can be salvaged. "I'm hoping for a six-game winning streak," he says, "and ifwe're invited to a bowl game, a seven-game win­ning streak. We have the talent that's for sure, but it'll be tough sine~ we play three more teams (USC, Penn State and Miami, Fla.) that are in the top 20. 
"We're a much better team than we've been showing lately. And I think we'll show everybody just how good we really are, beginning next Saturday." 
St5J3 .....s.da... tAcna 1r-Martill's ueSt. ...1Jt TilES., WED. ~S:JI 
THURS.. fll.l:)l.a:JO-S.U.~S:JI 
272-0112.277-1691 
•••••••~oo~••••••• 
1 For The Total Look 1 
I ~~ I
1 C..d ~ ft. on a Styled Hair Cut, I 1 y P \\V Shampoo. Blow Dry & I £...~ Conditioner. : I ~? Rrg.SIS.OO I 
1 Now 510" Complete 1 
I The Kni2hts ofthe Castle I 
I 

277-16'91 272-0312 I 
.....• • • • •ICLIP AND SAVEl• • • • -~~~~-­


The Observer -Sports Friday, October 16, 1981 -page 10 

Notre Dame first baseman Henry Valenzuela lived up to his celebrated name this fall by batting .472 and socking four home runs. See Tim Larkin's fall baseball review at rigbt. (Photo by Carrie Koplin) 
By TIM LARKIN 
Sports Writer 
One would think a 9-3 record would have most teams truly excited about their performance. Notre Dame's baseball team posted that mark in its fall exhibition season, but the players aren't react­ing with joy, as they look forward to a winter's preparation for the spring season. 
"On the last day I found that the 
players weren't satisfied with the 
season," says Coach Larry Gallo. 
"The kids expect to win now and 
they realize that they still have 
things to work on. But with a 9· 3 
record, I have to be happy." 
Gallo is certainly satisfied after ac­complishing what he wanted to do this fall. He gave the freshmen some playing tim.e so they won't be foreign to ft next spring, and tried a lot ofplayers at different positions so he knows what he's got to work with in the spring season. 
Also, Gallo's veteran players were able to work on their hitting in these exhibition games. Henry Valenzuela, who will supply power to the of· fense, had an excelknt fall, batting 
for those who dare... is at 
TRW 
TRW College Relations Bldg. R5/B196, Dept. NO 10/81 One Space Park Drive Redondo Beach, California 90278 
Challenge! Another reason why tomorrow is taking shape at a company called TRW. 
~TRW 
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H 
U.S. Citizenship Required 
, 
I' 

Fall baseball 
Irish impress with 9-3 slate 
~=======================================~===~========~ 
.472, driving in 17 runs and hitting four home runs. just behind him was Rick Chryst with a .425 average. Chuck Tasch, who will be expected to provide some punch in the fifth spot next spring, compiled a .324 clip. 
"I'm cont1dent that we'rt: going to hit," says Gallo, "but I try to stress w the players that defense and pitching will win ball games." 
With the loss of Jim Montagano, Notre Dame's offense will be less ex­plosive, so this fall Gallo displayed his own brand ofOakland's patented "Billy Ball." In a game when the Irish fell behind 5-0 in the first inning, Gallo still had his players !ttealing. He told them that unless their op­ponent can stop them; he's not going to divert from his gamepla11. 
Gallo is filling the hole behind the piate created by the loss of Mon­tagano with three players. Phil Dingle (.300 average) and Tim Ambrey (.200 average) will be his mainstays, plus he has freshman Dave Clark, who went one-for-three at the plate. "I feel confident at that position and I think we're stronger defensively," says Gallo. 
Another freshman Gallo is pleased

I 
With is Henry Lange. Lange can play both infield and outfield, and al­though he only had a couple of hits in eight at-bats, he, too, drew praise from his coal·h: "He's come along quite well," Gallo says, "and I know he'll make a valuable contribution to our team." 
Playing the roles of Gallo's top starters will be Steve Whitmyer and Bill Matre. Whitmyer had a 2-I record this fall with a deceiving 7.20 ERA. In the game against Xavier, he gave up six runs in three innings in his only p_oor outing ofthe fall. ,\1atre was a perfect 3-0 with a respenable ::\.'l5 ERA. The bright spot on the Irish pitching staffwas freshman Bob "Buster" Lopes, who had a 1-0 record with a sparkling 1.12 ERA in eight innings pitched. 
"He (Lope~) is really going to help us," says Gallo, "One thing that im­presses me and the players is that he's mature and has composure, and he's only 17 years old. 
"I didn't have any major disap­pointments this fall," Gallo con· tinues. "just minor ones that if we don't nip them in the. bud, they would become enormous in the spring. We had some mental lapse~;, 
but I'm not too concerned since it's 
a common thing when you 0nl} play on weekends." If mental mistakes were the only problems Gallo had this fall, he must 
be very 1\attsfied with his team He'll
The challenge... 
be t'Ven more content it his team can
I
continue these good fortunes into the 1982 spring season. 
I 

It}~~1s 
Challenge! For some, ifs a onc&in-a-life-time experience. For others, like the professionals at 
ISt. Mary's
TRW, ifs an everyday reality. 
~:·. 

These knowledge-intensive men and women operate as a team to reach the highest pirmacles of technical excellence. They recc~nize the value of the individual to the group effort in reaching the top in a variety of technical disciplines-From large data base software systems, communications spacecraft, and alternative energy sources to scientific satellites, high energy lasers, and microelectronics. 
So, if you're a rugged individualist with a strong desire to pit your skills against complex technical problems, look into TRW. We'll give you the experi­ence you need to become an engineering pro­fessional of the highest calibre. 
Now that you've mastered the basics and conquered one mountain, we invite you to scale ours. 
TRW will be on campus October 26 
to interview graduates in Engineering and Scientific disciplines at all degree levels. Contact the placement office to schedule your appointment, or write to: 
BY MARY SIEGER 
Sports Writer 
Last night in the Angela Athletic Facility, the Saint Mary's volleyball team was defeated by Bethel College by scores of 8-15, 9-1 ;, I 5-l 3. I 5-4 and 14-16. The team now has a 6-6 record so far this season. 
One of the reasons for last night's 
disappointing performance was in­
consistency. "We hit the ball out of 
bounds 1-: times while our op­
ponent had the serve," comments 
Head Coach Erin Murphy. This 
means that the team gave the Pilots 
17 points simply by hitting it out of 
bounds. 
Despite the team's loss, junior 
Heidi Krumdieck had her best game 
of the season while teammate Loret 
Haney had her best defensive game 
ever. 
This weekend the team travels to 
lllinois Bcnadictine College for a 
tournament. "We need to work on 
our hitting .md on our defensive 
positioning before the tournament," 
Murphy says. 
Murphy is still optimistic about the rest of the season. "Our stand­ings in the conference are still good t ,"she says, "and that's the most important thing." 
Both Murphy and the team are looking forward to this weekend's tournament because she hopes that it will pull the team out of its losing streak. "This is the finest team we've ever had, and the sooner the players begin believing that, then the sooner we will be on a winning track," adds Murphy. 
Buy Observer classifieds 
... 

The ObserYer 
Friday, October 16, 1981 -page 11
Weekend 
NDW I 1?DN'T J.MV£" 10 Wl>'RR'i A.SOUT 
U,E:T/INC, 'RIDE:S TO Rilt.ADE'"I..PHIA 6K 
17tKII\J6t ATRAINHC. 

M?, 7lX1fJ PJ(jjlj)N'T ~I S/6N. He'S GOTTlX> fJftJ PeAR TOW MUCH~ 7/tiJ SM!THSOJ G:llt' UP IN t:/Jm3Y 
7Hm.61//? 5!lJCK5 I 
\ /OW. 
<"'l•r-_-ny,J 

Simon 

The Daily Crossword 

Michael Molinelli 


ACROSS 33 Lease anew 1 Shoestring 34 Alma ­5 Frighten 35 Paid 
10 Saucy girl athlete 14 Dollar 36 High notes bills 37 Limb bone 15 Neighbor of 38 Russian 
Michigan ruler 16 Of planes 39 Shade tree 17 Booty of 40 Scads 
a kind 41 Salvador's 20 Krazy -state 21 Leave out 42 "Gold Bug" 22 Giggle author 23 Moroccan 43 Large jug 
port 44 Earns 25 Aquarium 45 Staub of fish baseball 27 Ferryman of 47 Frigid 
the Styx 48 Santiago's 29 Neap or ebb land 30 Alps: abbr. 50 Solicitude 
Thursday's Solution 



Jeb Cashin 
51 Devotee: suff. 

54 Mathematic· lcus" al testing 26 River in device Germany 
58 Sandarac 27 Obnoxious 
tree one 59 Of a cereal 28 Cheery 60 Interdiction greeting 61 Freeman 29 Florida 
of films city 62 Fort -, 31 Character-Florida istic 63 Pallid 32 Shore birds 34 Dry and DOWN friable 
1 Bolt 37 Nonwoven 2 Celebesox fabric 3 Manfrom 38 Ancient 
Managua Irish 4 Time zone capital 
letters 40 Hebrew 5 Magic user prophet 6 Ancient 41 Brazilian 
mea·sure port 7 "I smell-" 44 Simpletons 8 Pitcher 46 Extreme 
Guidry 47 More 9 Conclude ghostly 10 Lessdan· 48 Study hard gerous 49 Man of the 11 Men of Man­hour 
chester 50 Pretty 12 Dies-52 Adam's boy 13 Read 53 City In 
studiously New York 18 Mechanical 55-deplu man 56 Merry 19 Fish-eating 57 Stowe mammal heroine 


L-----------------------------------------------------------------~-----­
Campus 
•12:
15 p.m. -lecture, 1Oth annual civil rights lecture, jack greenberg, naacp legal defense fund, rm. 1 1 5 law school. 

•12: 
15 p.m. -seminar, "genetic variability and in· sect outbreaks", dr. nancy Iorimer, usda forest service, galvin aud. 

•12:
1 5 p.m. -italian club lunch, all italian speak· ing profs. ( swc & nd ), fac. dining rm., south dining hall. 

• 
3:30 p.m. -colloquium, "justifying morality: a strategy", prot: monte holloway, mem. lib. lounge, sponsored by philosophy dept. 

•4 
p.m. -soccer game, nd vs. valparaiso, alumni fidd. 

•4:30 
p . ..m. -kenna lecture in mathematics, "holomorphic vector fields & c actions on projective varieties" prof. j.b. carrdl, 226 ccmb. 

•7:30 
p.m. -japanese film, "portrait of chicko," memorial library aud., sponsored by ~ducational media. 

• 
7:30p.m. -hockey, nd vs york (toronto), exhibi· tion game, ace. 

•s 
p.m. -lion's club travd film, "southwestern 


adventure", o'laughlin aud. Saturday, Oct. 17 
• -graduate record exam, engineering aud. • -midsemester vacatin, october 17·25. 
•7:30 p.m. -hockey, nd vs york (toronto), exhibi· lion garr ·. 
Sunday, Oct. 18 
•10 
a.m.-4 p.m.-modd railroad show, ace. en· ter gate 1 or 2. 

•1-4 
p.m. -exhibit opening; "life -the first decades", o'shaughnessy galleries, snite museum. 


7p.m. 
7:30 
8:00 
8:30 
9:00 
10:00 
10:30 
11:00 12:00 

Television Tonight 
16 Pre:-Game:-Championship Playoffs 
22 lncredibk Hulk 
28 All-Star Family Feud Special 
34 Washingwn Week in Review 
46 In Touch 
34 Wall Street Week 
22 Dukes of Hazzard 
28 Movie:-: "The:-Day the Loving Stopped" 
34 Enterprise 
46 Lester Sumrall Teaching Series 
34 Ben Wanenberg at Large 
46 Tbe Renewed Mind 
22 Dallas 
34 Firing Line 
41) Today with Lester Sumrall 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Nc:-wswateh 28 34 The Dick Caven Show 46 Jimmy Swaggart 16 NewsCc:-nter 16 22 CBS Late Movie 28 ABC News Nightline 34 Captioned ABC News 
16 Tonight Sho~ 2? Saturday Night 46 Praise the Lord 16 SCTV Comedy Network 
Today in History 
Today's highlight in history: 
In 1978, Polish Cardinal Karol Wojtyla was elected pope. He took the name ofjohn Paulll. On this da.e: In 1756, British forces under Robert Clive 
marched against the Nawab of Bengal, India. In 1793, Marie Antoinette of France was be· headed. In 194 I, the Germans captured Odessa in the Soviet Union in World War II. And in 1970, Anwar Sadat became president of Egypt, succeeding the late Gamal Abdcl Nasser. 
• 

-


.\ 
• 

At linebacker 
Zavagnin does job quietly 
By CHKIS NEEDLES 
-Sports Writer 
At times, he may feel like he is a molehill next to a mountain. But Mark Zavagnin takes it all in stride. 
Zavagnin is Notre Dame's weakside linebacker, which of course places him right next to all­American middle linebacker Bob Crable. So while the outgoing Crable grabs all the headlines, and deser­
• vedly so, for his performances, Zavagnin just goes about his busi­ness of being a steady, . solid linebacker. 
"He (Crable) is the all-American," says Zavagnin, "and it's only right that he gets all the attention he does. But I don't feel frustrated. 
.,. "I learn a lot by playing next to Bob. He'll point out things that I do wrong and we try to correct them. And a lot oftimes, I return the favor." 
But, as most everything so far this season has gone sour for the Irish, so too has it been a downer for Mark Zavagnin. Although the junior from Evergreen Park, Ill., has played well in the first five contests, he has only received recognition for one perfor­mance -and that was negative! 
Despite performing admirably so far, Zavagnin is remembered today only for one seemingly insignificant play in the Purdue game. Of course, Notre Dame fans all remember it like it was last evening's nightmare. 
The Boilermakers were moving the ball down the field in the game's 
lloftnal minute, when quarterback Scott Campbell went back to throw. But he threw slightly behind his in­tended receiver, and Zavagnin made a great play to cut in front of the Purdue player, intercept the pass, and ensure ·Notre Dame's 14-7 vic­tory. Unfortunately, Mark forgot one thing. 
The ball. 

One play later, Purdue was on the Irish one-yard line, setting up for the eventual killing, a 1 5-14 upset. Problem was, despite Notre Dame's inefficient offense that day and the breakdown of the secondary in the final two minutes, many "fans" un­fairly blamed Zavagnin for the loss because of the dropped intercep­tion. 
"It really bothered me personal­ly," says Zavagnin now. "I mean, it (the interception) could have turned the game completely around. But I guess it just wasn't meant to be." 
Zavagnin has rebounded quite well from the unwarranted cnuc1sm. Last Saturday against Florida State, he had his best day as a Notre 'Dame athlete, recording 13 tackles (two of them for losses) and intercepting two passes, returning one for 27 yards to set up Notre Dame's second field goal at the start ofthe third quarter. 
"I was surprised at how quick I was able to read and react to their (Florida State's) plays," Zavagnin says. "On that second interception, I was surprised that he (FSU quarter­back Rick Stockstill) even threw it -I guess he never saw me coining. 
"That one Ididn't drop." 

Once again, though, Zavagnin's performance was overshadowed by another standout game turned in by Crable, who recorded 19 tackles, and also by the shock present in the aftermath of Notre Dame's third loss 
Hockey ticket info 
Notre Dame undergraduate, graduate, law and married stu­dents; Saint Mary's students who have purcha.o;;ed season hockey tickets via the applications sent this summer; or any students wanting to purchase season hockey tickets, may pick them up at the ticket windows on the 
• secondfloor of the ACC, on Mon­day and Tuesday, Oct. 26 and 27, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.. 
These tickets will be issued on a first-come, first-served basis. Therefore, if you wish to sit with a classmate, you must present your ID cards together. Each stu­dent may present a maximum of four ID's when picking up tickets. 
Please note that since the spring, there have been deletions from the home hockey schedule, shonening the home slate to 14 games (seven games for first and second game-of-series sets.) If students have already purchased a season hockey ticket based upon the original 18-game schedule, they will be given a refund at the time they pick up their tickets. 
For Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, a season ticket costs S28, with first or second game-of-series package costs S 14. Spouses of married students may purchase a season ticket for 1142, with a game-of-series package costing S21. 
No season tickets will be sold after Oct. 27, anc'-there is a limit ofone ticket per ID. The price of an individual game ticket this season is 1!3 with presentation of ID card. -The Observer 

By MARK ROLFES 
Sports Writer 
One week from tomorrow, Notre Dame meets the Trojans ofSouthern California for the 53rd time. The two teams have had an intense rivalry since 1926, the year ofthe first game between the two schools. They have played each other every year since then, except for the war years 1943­1945. 
Notre Dame leads the series, 27­21-4, yet have only won 2 ofthe last 14 contests. The last three times ND has beaten USC, the Irish have won National Championships (which is not a good omen for this year's game). 
Here is a list of what may be the ten best contests between ND and USC: 
December 4, 1926, at Los An­geles-ND 13, USC 12: 
In the first meeting ever between the two, in front of80,000 in the L.A. Coliseum, Notre Dame came from behind to score a touchdown in the final minute of the game. USC too-ka 12-7 lead in the fourth quarter. ND quarterback Charles Riley had not 
Yanks win, go to Series--again 
OAKLAND (AP) -Willie Ran­dolph snapped a scoreless tie with a two-out homer in the sixth inning and the New York Yankees captured their 33rd American League pen­nant by beating the Oakland A's 4-0 Thursday night to complete a three­game sweep of the league cham­pionship series. 
Graig Nettles, who already had driven in six runs in the first two games ofthe series, ripped a two-out three-run double over the head of centerfielder Rick Bosetti in the ninth inning to put an end to the 1981 story ofthe upstart A's. 
,.. Dave Righetti, the Yankees 22­
year-old rookie left-bander, held 
Oakland scoreless through six in­Davis and then Goose Gossage, who finished up for the World Series­bound Yankees. In all, they held the A's to five hits. 
nings,  but  after  throwing  112  
pitches,  he  was  replaced by _~~n __  
~-!;,',';;._ • "~..J-,  

Former Yankee manager and player Billy Martin's A's could score only four runs in three games against New York while the Yankees scored 20. 
New York stranded nine runners through the first five innings, which took two hours to play. Finally, Ran­dolph ended the tension by picking on a 1-0 delivery by Matt Keough that he lofted high over the left field wall for his first home run since April and his first in post-season play since 1977. 
New York won the first two games of the AL Championship Series at Yank~e Stadium by scores of3-1 and 
~ .,r-r,.~p 

13-3, setting playoff records with their run total and 19 hits in the second game. It looked like they were on their way to another rout as Keough struggled, then wriggled from one jam after another before finally yielding to one of the Yankees' least potent bats. 
A woeful batting slump down the stretch had dropped Randolph from his normal leadoff spot to ninth in the New York order. He came into the game hitting just .214, on 6-for-· 28, through seven playoff games. 
In the sixth, though, he finally broke out, sending the Yankees in quest of their 23rd World Series championship. 
See YANKS page 9 

team  the  Irish  will  face  in  this Coming offa fine performance against Florida State last Satur­ 
season's  sadistic  schedule.  And day, Irish linebacker Mark Zavagnin says he's ready to take on  
See ZAVAGNIN,page 9  Southern Cal right now. See Chris Needles' story at left. (Photo by  

Cheryl Ertelt) 

in five games. But Zavagnin accepts the lack of recognition as a part of living next door to an all-American. 
"He (Crable) deserves all the recognition he gets," saya Zavagnin. "I'm not impressed, really, if I get a bunch of newspaper articles and stuffdone on me. 
"For me, as long as I feel I've done my best, and my family and friends recognize that, that's all I really care about." 
After Saturday's game, Zavagnin had nothing but respect for Florida State. "I don't think I've ever seen a team get their receivers out into their patterns faster," he said. "I think the key (to the game) was in the second half when we were in a prevent defense and they just ran the ball. We played with a lot of in­tensity in the first half, but didn't keep it up." 
But Zavagnin is not looking back, for one week from tomorrow, South­ern California iiTVades Notre Dame Stadium. The Trojans, who feature Heisman Trophy candidate Marcus Allen, are quite possibly the best 
Resumes Oct. 24 
ND-USC rivalry enters 53rd year 
been moving the Irish offense, so 
with six minutes left, Coach Knute 
Rockne put in Art "Petit" Parisen, a 
150-pound quarterback who had 
not played in weeks. Two long 
passes to freshman John Niemac 
gave the Irish a touchdown with on­
ly a minute left and the victory. 
November 26, 1927, at Soldier 
Field, Chicago -ND 7, USC 6: 
Soldier Field wa.o;; packed with 
120,000 fans who saw the Irish win 
an exciting, defensive battle. A wide 
open first quarter produced all of 
the scoring, with Charley Riley 
connecting to Ray Dahman on a 24­
yard pa.o;;s for the decisive score. The 
rest of the game saw a number of 
USC opportunities, all ofwhich were 
terminated by turnovers and a tough 
ND defense. 
December 6, 1930, at LA -ND 
27, USCO: 
The year 1930 represented a new football stadium and Knute Rockne's last team. ND and USC came into the game as the top two teams in the country. Against a USC team con­sidered by many to be the strongest team in its history, in Rockne's last game as coach, a game the Irish sup­posedly could not win, perfect ex­ecution and all-around excellence gave the Irish a decisive 27-0 win. Both Notre Dame's offense and defense were overpowering, as it outgained USC, 433 yards to 140. 
November 21, 1931, at Notre Dame -USC 16 ND 14: 
At the end ofthe third quarter, ND held a 14-0 lead. USC scored early in the fourth quarter, but missed the extra point. Holding the Irish on their next possession, the Trojans regained the ball and marched 57 yards for another score. The score now 14-13, USC got the ball again with three minutes to play. A 40­yard pass set up a 24-yard field goal with less than a minute left to give USC a thrilling 16-14 win. 
December 6, 1947, at LA -ND 38, USC7: 

For the first time, both teams came into the game undefeated. Frank Leahy's Irish had a 10-7 halftime lead, but in the second half they were on fire. Their first pia; 
was a 76-yard touchdown run by Emil Sitko, ND's second leading all­time rusher. Their next possession was a 54-yard touchdown drive. Bob Uvingstone later had a 92-yard run, longest run from scrimmage in Notre Dame history. The victory gave N:> the Nat bna 1 Chanp bn­
sh ip. December 4, 1948, at LA -ND 14, usc 14: 
With only three minutes left, USC took a 14-7 lead, but Billy Gay ran back the ensuing kickoff87 yards for 
the Irish, setting up an Emil Sitko touchdown. The Notre Dame defense played very well, holding USC to only 14 points despite six fumbles by the Irish offense. 
November 26, 1966, at LA ­ND51, USCO: 
Coming off the "game of the cen­tury" against Michigan State (a 10­10 tie), the Irish clinched a National Championship by crushing USC, 51­0, the biggest win by either team in the history of the series. Led by all­Americans Alan Page and Nick Eddy and quarterback Coley O'Brien, the 9-0-1 Irish dominated every facet of the game. 
October 27, 1973, at ND -ND 23, usc 14: 
Both teams went into the game undefeated as Notre Dame ended USC's 23-game unbeaten streak, the first Irish win in the series since 1966. This USC team featured Pat Haden, Lynn Swann and Anthony Davis. The Irish led 13-7 at halftime and on their first play of the second half, Eric Penick ran 85 yards for a touchdown. Three field goals by Bob Thomas clinched the win for Notre Dame, who went on to a Sugar Bowl win over Alabama and a per­fect 11-0 National Championship season. 
October 22, 1977, at ND -ND 49, usc 19: 
In the now-famous "green jersey" game, Dan Devine's fired up squad whipped a strong Trojan team. Jerome Heavens and Vagas Ferguson led the Notre Dame backfield and Joe Montana was 13-for-24 for 167 
See ND-USC page 7 




