• • • Woodstock -page 7 

VOL. XV, NO. 12S an mdependent student newspaper serving notre dame and samt mary's FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 1981 

J' 
ti 
Pat Trueman, executive director of Americans United for Life, addressed the question oftbe legal status ofeuthanasia and its im­jJliwttons last night in the Libmry Auditorium. (photo by Linda Shtlnahtm) 
In Latin America 

Pelton terms CEB 1Jositive influence, 
By JEFF CHOPPIN 
SltiffRepr1rter 
Fr. Robl·rt S. Pdton was named the dirct·tor of the Notre Dame In­stitute for Ch:rgy Edul·ation in I975. lie is a dost· ohserver of Latin American affairs and spent seven years in Chile. 
Fr. l'dton Vl(as ordained a Holy Cross prit'st in I 949. lie served ao; an advisor to Cardinal Suenens during the Set·ond Vatican Coundl and workt·d as a j;>urnalist during the meeting of Latin Amt·rican bishops at l'ut·hla in I 979. 
Fr. Pelton ha1imet with El Salvador President Jos Napoleon Duarte during a mtTti g ofSo~th American Notre Damt· alumni1 Fr. Pdton dt·scribes Dua tt· as hdng "a man of 
I 


I 
personal principlt"' and sent him a lettt-r In December urging a "fresh dirt·ction" he taken towards the con­trol i>fthe military fd t rces. 
There will he a mt·eting ofalumni in late July Of this year which will be attendt·d hy Notre Dame President Tht·odort· llcsburgh and Fr. Pelton. The purpost· of the meeting will he to discuss the Puebla document and its possible: implications for Central Amerkan nations. 
Tht· f>uehla meeting's primary focus was to reflect "upon the lived experience during the ten years af­ter Medellin," according to Fr. Pel­ton. Medellin was the location where tht· Latin American bishops met in response to the direetives of the Second Vatican Council. 
The ten years between Medellin and Puehla saw "the 'gra~s roots' groups of Christians increase dramatically." Ecclesiastical ba~e communities ( CEBs) were the primary reason for the increase. "These small Christian communities have led to a strengthening and diversity of ministries." The CEBs "have assisted Christians to par­ticipate more fully in a liturgical life, to develop a stronger bond of com­munity, and to he a pt>sllive in­fluence in the environment Itself." 
The CEBs represent a view of pluralism in ministry within the Church. The role of the laity is incrcao;ing and with it the vitality of the Latin American Church. The Puehla meeting helped to unify tht· CEBs, the parishes and the local Church. 
Fr. Pelton wrote that the hishops at Puebla recognized "that there is an institutionalized vioknce In South America. The government and corporations do violence to in­dividuals." Pelton added, "What Puehla calls for is a changing of the structure so that governments and corporations arc not unjust." 
This has started through the CEBs. According to Fr. Pelton,"Th~· small communities have influenced tem­poral changes, and because of this they have contrihutcd in a valuable 


Countdown continues 
Colutnbia returns U.S. to space 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. ( AP) · On the eve ofits maiden voyage, tht· test shuttle: Columbia was poised for flight yesterday on moon-launch pad 39A, an untried ship of the future ready to rt·turn Americans to space. 
The two astronauts who will stake their lives today on its success went to sleep at mid-afternoon yesterday after a final tdephone farewell to their families. Rdaxed and ready to fly, they took a call from Vice­President George Bush and told him they are ready to go and that "skies are clear." 
At the same time, the countdown went into its climactic hours. 
"I think we're go," said launch director George Page. "I think we're going to make it." Lift-off was set for 43 minutes past dawn, at 6:SO a.m. EST today. 
Astronauts John Young and Robert Crippen, who say they are "140 per cent trained" for their 54­hour flight, visited their revolution­ary spacecraft at first light yesterday, were told it was in good shape, and went off for some final landing practice in airplanes. 
The a~tronauts were in bed at 4 
p.m. for a solid sleep before the 2:05 
a.m. call summoning them to space. NASA officials said the astronauts are 
calm  and  have "had  no  difficulty  
sleeping whatsoever."  
After  a  10-minute  medical  ex­ 

amination Friday, the astronauts will hreakfa~t on sausage, eggs, orange 
juice, toa~t and coffee, receive a final weather briefing, suit up and enter the spacecraft at 4:30 a.m. 
There was nothing in the weather or the readiness of spaceship and astronauts to cause launch control any concern. 
"I have a feeling we are going to go tomorrow," said John Yardley, head of the shuttle project for the National Aeronautics and Space Ad­ministration. "The forecast is I00 percent good." 
"The weather tomorrow should he excellent," said Capt. AI Duff, the Air Force's weatherman. 
Brevard County sheriff's oflicials warned that more than a million people would jam the roadsides in the area. Some recreational vehicles had taken up prime viewing posi­tions two days earlier. 
h hao; been nearly six years since an a'itronaut with the American flag on his slet·ve rocketed away from earth. Amnka, whkh sent I2 men to tlu-moon, simply kft tht· black beyond to Russia. Forty-thrn· t·os­monauts wt•nt up whik till" IJ.S. devt·loped tht· shuttk and st·nt l"X· plorer satdlites to Mars, Saturn and furtht·r. 
Two yt·ars behind schedule and billions over t·ost, tht· shuttk lifts the curtain on an agt· of usl"ful span· wht·n mankind taps tht· unitfllt" properties of weightles.'iness to crt·at~· new medicines and mt·tals and, yes, nt·w wt·apons. 
Yardley confirmed Thursday that without support from tlw Pt·ntagon, the shuttle would still he in its han­gar today. 
Ddenst· oflidals predict that by mid·d~·cadt·, the U.S. will tit-pend on the shuttle to place and n·pair spy satellites, provide t·arly warning against missile attack and to servin· routine military l"ommunications. 


Latest victim raises Atlanta death toll to 22 
ATLANTA (AP)-The body of a retarded man who disappeared last black male was found yesterday in week. an abandoned apartment building in Public Safety Commissioner Lee Altanta, where 22 other young Brown said the body wa~ identified blacks have been slain, and officials yesterday afternoon as that of 20­quickly identified the victim as a ycar-old Larry Rogers. 
Brown, who rushed to tht• 
way to the construction of a new society." 
Fr. Pelton sees the CEBs as a met­hod to revitalize a number of U.S. parishes. "In a sense, the 'message' of Pucbla also refers to ourselves in pastoral planning in the United States. In particular, the sense ofec­clesial unity so strongly evident at Puehla encourages us also to reconcile and to build creatively. It also invites us in dear terms to broaden our ow.t sense of ministry so that what might seem to be a priestly shortage is in fact the Spirit 

inviting  us  to  a  widening  and  
deepening  consciousness  of  
pluralism in ministry."  

Fr. Pelton served ao; the represent­ative for the Religious News Service during the Pope's visit to Brazil last July. He reported on the difficulties 
See FOCUS, page 4 


Trueman condemns. all mercy killings 
By MIKE DUPLESSIE 
News Staff 
Pat Trueman, Executive Director and General Counsel of Americans 
United for Life, discussed new trends in euthanasia in the Library Auditorium 
last night, stressing American society's gradual acptance ofmercy killings. 
He focused on two aspects of euthanasia, infanticide and living wills. 
Living wills are a directive to one's physician indicating that the individual's 
life is not to be maintained if extraordinary means of life-support inust be 
used. must be used. Trueman downplayed the significance of Jiving wills 
because doctors currently let patients die if their chances of survival arc 
minimal. 
Trueman also discoursed on the practice of infanticide. Citing a case which occured at Johns Hopkins Hospital, Trueman stated that many physicians regularity let retarded children and childre!l born alive during an abortion starve to death. Physicians consider these children "non­meaningful persons" so the child is permitted to die. 
Trueman concluded the talk by urging a better awareness of the many facets of the euthana~ia issue, in the hope that an increased knowledge on the part ofthepublic will prevent any mor~ killings. 
northwest Atlanta apartment where the body was found, had earlier refused to describe what the vktim wa'i wearing. Ue said he did not know the t·ause of dt·ath, hut said "we will carry the ca~e a~ a homicide, ohvlously." 
An ambulance driver told rept>r­ters the victim was dad in a T-shirt, 
"We will carry the case as a homicide., 
underwear and shorts. He wore no shoes, said the driver, who ao;ked not 
to be identified. .Fultop Cl.>unty ,Chief Medical Ex­
1

aminer Roht·rt Stivers said the body . -was identified shimly after,it arrivt·d 
.·t, at the morgue. lie said tl_tc autopsy .had. begun but added it will '"takt· us a whilt-." The body was found in a ground­floor apartment at about ll::W a.m. by offin·rs inv~stigating a car ahandon~·d nearby, Brown said. Tht· apartmt·nt building wa.~ boanlt-d up, and lis yard was strewn with old tires and other litter. Brown would not nunment on whether there were any wounds on the body or how long it had 1-:lh·n in the abandont·d apartment, lfe also refused to say whetht·r Rogers might havt· been kilkd somewhere else and dumpt·d in the apartment. 
In addition to tht· 23 slayings since July I979, a special police task force is also investigating the disap­pcarances oftwo black youths -1 0­year-old Dacron Glass, who vanished last September and IS-year-old Joseph Bell, last seen March 2. 



----~---------------­

Friday, April10, 1981 -page 2

NewsBriep 
====~======~============================~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Although u.s. officials stress civilian aspects of the space shuttle, the launch of the winged Columbia is vitally important to America's security network. By the mid-1980s, defense officials predict, the United States will be nearly totally dependent on the manned shuttle for placing satellites into orbit to spy on military developments inside the Soviet Union, for early warning against surprise missile attack, for military communications, navigation and weather forecasting. No longer will such military satellites be sent aloft aboard rockets fired from Earth. However, as a hedge against possible further slippages in the shuttle program, the Pentagon has ordered some additional Titan Ill rockets to serve as backup boosters. In a summary of the Pentagon's expectations of dividends from the space shuttle, former Defense Secretary Harold Brown told Congress last year that scientists forecast "reduced launch costs, increased reliability, increased weight and volume for our payloads," and greater flexibility. -AP 
Cynthia Dwyer, the suburban Amherst, N.Y. housewife who spent nine months in an Iranian prison on spy charges, has been hospitalized suffering from what her husband describes as fatigue and delayed stress. Mrs. Dwyer, 49, was admitted Wednesday to the Com­munity Mental Health Center at Buffalo General Hospital. Her hus­band, Dr. John F. Dwyer, head of the English Department at Buffalo State College, said his wife was underweight and experiencing "fatigue and delayed stress" from her ordeal in Iran. Mrs. Dwyer left for Iran last spring to gather material for a book she hoped to write as a free-lance writer. Iranians arrested her May 5 on spy charges. An Iranian court convicted her on espionage charges in February, but sentenced her to time already served and ordered her out of the country. She was released Feb. 10. -AP 
Amale strip showtook an unscheduled intermission in Evansville Ind. when an overzealous stripper dropped his G-string and an off-duty policeman lowered the boom. Allen Kenneth Roberts, 22, of Niles, Mich., was charged with public indecency Wednesday night following the first performance of the nationally famous group, Fast Freddie and the Playboys, at a downtown nightclub. The Playboy in question was arrested by Sgt. Leonhard Stilwell, who was working off-duty at the Victory Entertainment Center where the group was performing before an all-female, standing-room-only crowd. "I posted his ( $200) bond and got him back in time for the second show," promotion director john Steinhauer said. Steinhauer said that while Roberts did remove his G-string during the act, he was covered with a towel. "They're very careful about that," he said. But Steinhauer said he had not been aware that Indiana Jaw prohibits male strippers from removing G-strings under any circumstances until Stilwell informed him of the statute. Stilwell made no mention ofa towel in his written account ofthe arrest. -AP 
A volcanic earthquake on Mount St. Helens was recorded on seismic stations all across the state of Washington, the University ofWashington geophysics department reported yesterday. The quake, which occurred Wednesday night, "means it's still an active volcano," said geophysics spokesman A.B. Adams at the univer­sity in Seattle. The university did not immediately have a magnitude for the quake, but Adams said that considering the area over which it was detected, the quake was about the largest such activity on the volcano in about a week. -AP 
A young pig, coated with grease, led East Brunswick, N.J. police Sgt. Gerald Marino and two employees ofa local shopping mall on a slippery 15-minute chase through squealing shoppers who gat­hered to watch the roundup. "We had three men down on the floor yelling, 'Sooee, sooee,"' Brunswick Square Mall spokesman james Scanlon said. "Everybody loved the pig, but who knew how to catch it?" Police said the animal apparently was turned loose Tuesday night in the mall by pranksters. Marino, aided by maintenance supervisor Victor Grasso and maintenace worker Stanley Formiak, finally cor­nered the porker in the backroom ofa store when it got stuck under a sink. Pa -rolman Gerald Polack was called in for assistance. One man grabbeu the pig's hind legs, fended off a well-aimed nip and im­pounded the animal in a cardboard box. Marino, working on mall security detail, took the pig home to his Monroe farm and probably will keep the animal unless it is claimed, police said. -AP 
Punk fOCk Star Wendy 0. Williams, lead Singer of the Plasmatics, blew a kiss to jurors yesterday after they acquitted her of an obscenity charge stemming from a concert in which she performed nude from the waist up except for a layer ofshaving cream. "We play our music all over the world. We've been doing the same show for three years and we'll continue to do it," said the singer, dressed for court in tight black leather pants and a tiger-striped tank top, chains about her neck and ankles. Her hair, dyed black and blond, was cut in a :\tohawk style. Prosecutors said Miss Williams was nude after the shaving cream melted and that her gyrations with a microphone were depictions of masturbation. They termed the show obscene. The jury, all middk-aged or older, deliberated for about two hours. They spent another hour watching a videotape of the performance and listening to Judge C. Ellen Connally reread the law. -AP 
Rock star Elton John said he would not live in the United States even "if they paid me 100 pounds ( S219) a minute" because the country is too violent The 34-year-old singer spoke to reporters on a stopover at Heathrow Airport o a flight from Paris to Los Angeles to make a promotion movie. He had been in Paris for a party. Of England, John said: "we have enough trouble with our soccer violence, but at least people don't walk the streets with guns." "I really believe that violence on television is the root of the evil. A lot of it could be cut out," John said. -AP 
Mostly cloudy and breezy. Thirty percent chance of an afternoon thundershower. Highs near 70. Mostly cloudy tonight with a SO percent chance of showers and thunderstorms. Low tonight in the mid to upper 50s. Mostly cloudy tomorrow with the high near 70. 
-AP 

All thatJazz! 
The mc,on terrain-type tiles that line the Stepan Cen­ter ceiling reflected the early morning sun in pastel maroons and golds. For the working gentlemen, who had risen early to construct a sound system conducive to jazz, the reflection foreshadowed in a visual medium what they hoped to recreate in the audial. 
They had come yesterday morning to hoist huge Electro Voice amplifiers and horns atop scaffolding, ad­just Sl 5-3 speakers for the judges' listening pleasure, and place risers, microphones and lights in their ap­propriate places. And they had also come for the show. 
The show is The Collegiate Jazz Festival, a tradition 
here since 1959. It is the sort ofthing some wait for all 
year. 

Tonight and Saturday the hottest collegiate jazz groups in the country will be here, playing to a packed Stepan crowd, celebrating the jazz ritual. Six famous names in the jazz world will sit in judgment. Five of them will jam Friday night for as long as it takes them to get it all out oftheir system. For now. 
joe Farrell, who cut an album with George Benson and played with Chic Corea and the Return to Forever band, will be there. So will Dan Morgenstern, the for­mer editor of Downbeat Magazine, drummer Mel 
Lewis, base player Richard --_ campus lies with Fr. George Davis, pianist Jim McNeely, Wiskirchen, who has been and trumpeter Mike Vax. directing the ensemble and 
These judges, along with teaching his jazz course here the 15 jazz ensembles who for eight years. Before his represent the finest col­Notre Dame tenure, Wiskir­legiate jazz talent in the chen taught at Notre Dame country, will be performing 
High School in South Bend, for students and midwestern 
and made that ensemble one jazz enthusiasts at only $5 a 
of the most formidable in ticket for tonight's perfor­the country. 
mance, S4 Saturday night, Some students take the and S2.SO Saturday after­course because they are in­noon, or $7.SO for the whole terested in the study of jazz package. It is the most inex­for professional reasons. pensive concert action you Others take the course just are likely to ever find. Go. for an intellectual back­
Along with the Blues and ground on an art form they the Broadway musical, Jazz Jove. represents America's only You needn't have taken authentic art form. What Wiskirchen's legendary jazz 
started as a black phenomenon gained in u<J·uut•a•-•<> during the '40s with Glenn Miller and the big band sound. When the war effort required able-bodied males on the two fronts, band members became smaller in number. 
The smaller band produced a different sound -bop -and the practioners of bop, such legends as Charlie "the bird" Parker, began a trend toward emphasis on the soloist. The soloist's role, in particular, charac­terizes this form of jazz, popular in the '50s and regarded as more "intellectual" than its forebears. 
The jazz listeners of the '60s rebelled against the in­tellectual bop, and that reaction produced a form ofjazz called "cool," which is characterized by a large amount of free-form improvisation_ This form is still quite popular, though in the '80s one tends to hear a variety of the different forms. 
The type of music you can expect to hear at the jazz festival this weekend covers the whole gamut, though 

Design Editor............................. Mike Monk Design Assistants ......................... Kim Kohl Michele Dietz Tom O'Connor Layout Staff..................... Mary Ellen Ewen Typesetter ....................................... Mike Jans News Editor .............................. lynne Daley Copy Editors ........................... Paulo Groves 
T.J. Conley Features Layout .................... Greg Swiercz Sports Copy Editor.............. Chris Needles Typist ........................................... Mike Monk 
Greg Swiercz Systems Control ................... Bru.:e Oakley ND Day Editor ..................... Darcy Connor SMC Day Editor....................... Cece Baliles Ad Design ............................ Woody & Anne Photographer ..................... Unda Shanahan Guest Appearances ................ Panama Red 
the horny pandas AJ, RVB, TJ, andJMH Tunes by WTOC (once WTOM) 

Paid Positions Available For 
DOME 1982 
Yearbook Business Manager, layout, Photography, Copy 
Anyone interested should apply through Student Activities Deadline -April 10 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacatiOn penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sam! Marys College. Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $30 per year ($15 per semester) by wntmg The Ob­server, P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. In­diana 46556 
The Observer 1s a member of the Assoc1ated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
t  student union  
t is now accepting applications for 1981-Sl  t  
t  cake concession  Applications due  t  
:  Thurs. April 16  :  
tin the Student Union office  t  

r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~· 
L_______2~~~~~~~-J 

there will be an emphasis on bop and the big band 
sound will be more akin to Maynard Ferguson's than Glenn Miller's. listen closely and try to distinguish be­tween the various styles. 
The Collegiatejazz Festival is another example ofthe unique cultural opportunity one can find at Notre Dame (ofall places). To catch it in your fourth year is to make you wish you had been turned on to it earlier. To miss it four years in a row is a folly ofthe highest order. 
The origins ofthejazz Festival are somewhat obscure but the support it has always received here, from the student body and the administration, is remarkable. It has continued to gain in status and popularity, to the point that this year two of the six judges are alumni of the festival. 
Part ofthe reason the musical genre Jazz and theJazz Festival have become an ingrained tradition on 
course to appreciate the improvisation on chord progressions that makes jazz an emotional and emotive art form. You just have to feel the music and go with the flow ofAmerica's singular contribution to culture. 
Jazz is uniquely American not just because it was in­vented in the United States but because, like the most American of this country's art, it is democratic. It is democratic in the sense of rebellion, as each performer in a sense breaks away from traditional to find his own style. Jazz is the self expression of the solo against the stability of the rythmn, a metaphor of man doing his own thing in community; any riff is cool as long as you make it fix to the established melody. 
The established melodies and imaginative riffs will both be playing off the moon-terrain tiles ofStepan this weekend. It is a rich fusion you won't want to miss. Come with a blanket, a friend, and whatever else you need to bring to make for an amenable weekend eve­ning. And enjoy. 

Friday, April 10, 1981 -page 3 · 
The Observer 
African crisis 
Somalia suffersfamine, "War 
Tbe Notre /Jmne Student Govern­ment Third World Commission ulong with C/IA and the ND/.SMC World 1/unxer Coalition is sponsoring em East African Aware­ness Week, wilb educationul ac­lit•ities m1t1 funtl raising for the t•ictims offamfne. mul u•ar in that rexfon Tbis article describes tbe grtwe situation in Somalia. 
By MARK PASQUERILLA and WILL O'BRIEN 
A rt·c.:ent c.kkgation of The Hun­ger Project visiting Somalia reported on the grave sitation tht·re: "Onc.:e seen it t·an never ht· forgottt·n: more than 70,000 people, 90 pert"Cnt of them women and children, dus­tned together on a harren hillside, their only shdtn small huts made of thin hush hranches, animal skins, and picct·s of doth. No one in the t·amp had rec.:cived food rations in two days, and it was uncertain when tht· next food supply truck would arrivc..." Sixty million pcoplc face starvation or at·ute malnutrition in East Africa this year; yet with littk rncdia attention given to this crisis, most Amcricans rcmain unaware of the: plight of these starving Alkans. 
The situation in Somalia, hard hit hy famine: and war is, pcrhaps, the most dire:. In I977, Somalia hcgan a war against neighboring Ethiopia. While Ethiopia and Somalia are no longer otlkially at war, guerilla warfart· <:ontinut'.~ near the: border. 

Pandas postpone date 
W A Sill N<iTON ( AP) -lit' was t';tgt'r. Sht· was nervous. lit· llirtett Sht· pan·d. 
Amid llmn·ring JWar trt·es. tendt·r dH"rry blossoms ;md large shoots of· bamboo, Chia <:hi.t. London's prinn· of panda~. got hb 11rst glimpse yes­tadav of his intcmkd, tht· 
· r\ml'rit .lllil.ed Ling Ling I k harked. She tkpartnl. Tl111~. ~pringtimr· opnwd yet an· 
other ,·h;~plt-r in the long ~orrowful ·.o:g;~ of til<' Pand;t l'n·di< anwnt. It's !wen t'tght year~ nm\ that oflkial~ at tht· ~.lllllllal z.,,, have hopt·d that l.ing Ling would h<T<lllll' pregnant. 
Aftl'f ll~ing Ibing. Ling Ling's • •riginal lll.tk. failed to prove hb \ irilit1. and an attt·mpt ill artilkial in· ·'''mination l:r-.t )Tar didn't takt·. zoo oftkiaJ:.. imported Cilia Chia from London. The 2 10 pound pamht not lw;tr. mind you arrived last lltont h. 
:\low the question is asked on hoth 'ides of tht· Atlantic: will they or won't they? 
"llopefully, they'll show (more) intere~t in t';Kh other whcn she gm·s into heat nl'xt month," said Sara lver~on. a zoo rt.·scardlt'r who was kn·ping a card'ul diary of the pandas' rnovcmt•nts as they were introduced to e;tdl otllt'r for the llrst time through a win· lt:nn·. "But it's hard to prnlict." 
It was at 7 a.m .. under a cloudless, ;~zur<' ~ky, that Chi<~ Chia was let out of his side of the half-million dollar pand<~ palact· to grn·t Ling Ling, al­rt·ady out for a romp. lie: sauntered up to the fr.·nt·e and Slllt'k his nose through. 
"Tht·y growkd and harked at ead1 otlwr and then Ling Ling ran off," Ms. lvt.·rson said. "Then he spent an hour and a half lyinf.( at the gate, hut she wouldn't come near it again." 
Estimates on the numhn of giant pandas in their native China range from 400 to I,tlOO. Only I~ live: outside China. In the West, only one has hecn hrcd in captiily -but the: cuh whkh was born in Mexico City last year was at:cidently killed by its mother. 
This war has crc::ated a stream of 
refugees who have tloodcd into Somalia. 
With I. "i million refugees having entered Somalia since the outbreak ofwar, one out ofevery four persons now in Somalia is a rl'fuf.(t.'e. Due to the influx of refugees, Somalia has experknced a 42/ increase in its population~ This is comparable to <)0 million poor and hungry refugees arriving in the'Unitt.·d States. Ninety perccnt of these refugl·es are women and childrcn. Bc­causeAfricans have a tradition of taking in their kinfolk, many Somalian families have acct·pted as many as 20 rcfuget·s. Yet Somalia, 
"It is almost a miracle that a holocaust has notyet occurred., 
whkh is the world's eighth poorest nation, has been unable to adt·quate­ly provide for the needs of its great refugt·e population. 
All of Africa has been suffering fom a f.(reat drought, hut tht· situa­tion in Somalia has been com­
pounded hy superpower politics. 
When Somalia invaded Ethiopia, the 
Soviet Union deserted Somolia in or­
der to support Ethiopia. The United 
States quickly took advantage of the 
situation to gain a foothold in 
Somalia, obtaining rights to a naval 
hase in 1980. One American diplomat cited in a I 980 U.S. News and World Report article described the ambiguous American role in Somalia: "It is a country at war, on the brink of cconomic collapse and one that has proven highly erratic in the past. But the U.S. has more im­portant things to worry about at the moment." 
The situation in Somalia remains quite tenuous. The Hunger Project report states: "It is almost a miracle that a holocaust has not yet occrred. Only a heroic international relief ef­f(>rt and the Somalian government's own unyiclding commitment stand between the: refugees and looming disaster." We in the ND/SMC com­munity can take part in this effort to save lives in East Africa. We call on the community to respond as generously as it did in providing aid for the Camhodian refugees. 

Committee rejects program, predicts future deficits 
WASHINGTON (AP) -In a Reagan's three-year package and 
surprising move, the Senate Budget said they would balance the budget 
Committce rejected President in 198~. 
Reagan's package of spending and Sen. William L. Armstrong of 
tax reductions yesterday after ad-Colorado, one: of the Republicans 
ding it up and finding it didn't who joined the Democrats in voting 
achieve the: goal of a balanced against the lk;\f.(an program, said the 
hudf.(ct hy \984. president's package: was "an un-
Three Repuhlicans joined nine polished diamond" that necds more 
lkmo('fats as the Republican-work. 
controlled committee voted 12-H Aft.:r the panel endorsed Reagan's 
against the: overall packaf.(c. Earlier, call for a thret··year, 30 percent cut 
thr.· panel had het·n endorsing the in individual taxes ;md a host of 
various parts ofthr.· plan. redul·tions throughout govt'fnmcnt. 
The pand's ch<~irman, Sen. Pete V. the committee stall' condudctl that 
Domenici, R-N.M., said'"wc'll just Jet there still would he a budget ddkit 
l'Vnyhody St'l' ho"' they fed in a of $'\,i.H billi(,ln next year and a 
couple of weeks" alin Congress -dctkit of $·1 1. 7 billion in il)H-i, the 
retums from its Easter recess April year Rcav,an has promised a 
2"'. balanced budget. 
At tlw White !louse. assistaqt Tht· lkagan administration had 
press St'Cft.'tary David Prospt'fi said foret·ast only •~ Sti'\ billion tlet1dt in 
thl·rc was no immnliatc conuncnt. ll)H.!. 
Till' !louse Budf.(C'l Committee, Even by adoptinf.( a plan that 
mt·am\ hilc. neared a linal vote on a would haVl', in l'lfl'ct, lowert.·d the 
budgr.·t blucprinl of its own. this one Social Security ;md rt·tircmcnt 
drafted by Democrats who sub-hend1ts fqr about ..j-1.1 million 
stituted a oJll'·yt·ar tax nil for Americans, thl' ddkits remained. 


Sunday Sunday 12:30 pm Sunday 

7:15 pm Vespers 

Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.O. Rev. James Shilts, C.S.O. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, O.S.O. 

Rev. Austin Fleming 
PRE-REGISTRATION 
ALL ND/SMC COTH MAJORS AND PROSPECTIVE MAJORS 
ROOM 1*WASHINGTON HALL APRIL 21 & 22 ( meet with your advi~or first) ADVISORY COUNSELrNG WASHINGTON HALL-APRIL 13,14,15 
*REGISTRATION WILL BE HELD FOR BOTH NO &SMC STUDENTS ONLY AT WASHINGTON HALL 
The Observer

I 
I 
I 
il· 
~i 
IIIt I: 
li 
il 
! I 
i I 
I 
I 
! ~ 
I 
i{ 
l[ 
!I 
I t i 
i 



~"(i~.rt9~-2 
0 TRYOUTS~ 
SUN· APRIL 11--lUES· APRIL 14 
6:30 pm in the ACC pit 
A NOTRE DAME SAINT MARY'S THEATRE PRESENTATION WASHING T 0 N H A L L , A P R I L 3 , 4, 9, I 0 & I 1 , AT 8' 0 0 PM ADMISSION IS $3; NO, SMC STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF PAY $2 50. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION PHONE284·4176 
Friday, April 10, 1981 -page 4 
Lawless frontier 

Treaty moves to'space regitne' 
(AP) -Deve.lopment of the American space shuttle has left be· hind a world still wrangling over how. to put international order into the largely lawless n,~w frontier the revolutionary spacecraft will ex· ploit. 
With the shuttle, man will soon be doing things in outer space that are simply not covered by ihe handful of international treaties that pertain to extraterrestrial activity. 
There is one key treaty that would move significantly toward an inter­national "space regime." It would declare the resources of the moon and planets to be a common heritage to be shared among all nations. But that treaty lacks the required num· ber of signatory governments and has got gone into effect. 
Long before a "moon treaty" final· ly takes force, American lunar sta· tions built with the'aid ofthe shuttle may already be 'mining iron, titanium or aluminum on the surface ofthe moon. 
The commercialization ofspaceis not the only development outstrip· ping international law. The Pen· tagon's plans for the National Aeronautics and Space Administra· tion shuttle have aroused new inter­national concerns that space will become a superpower battleground. 
The Soviet Union has denounced the shuttle program as the opening shot of a space arms race. The Soviets themselves, however, are at work on space weapons, such as long-range laser "guns" and "killer 
satellites"  that  destroy  other  or­ 
biters.  
The  shuttle,  which  can  carry  

satellites into orbit, is expected to be used extensively for putting up military spy satellites. U.S. defense officials say it might aiso eventually help build giant manned space plat· forms that could serve as reconnais­sance or command posts for earthly combat. 
On the commercial side, the American craft may quickly monop· olize and expand the lucrative com­munications satellite business. It could help build solar-energy sta· tions in orbit, and even space fac­tories and mills, where minerals found on the moon or elsewhere could be worked into construction materials or other products in a highly efficient weightless environ­ment. 
The new spacecraft could be a crucial step toward the, mass colonization ofspace. 

"The shuttle does open new areas in space, and we may need some specific new treaties," Marvin 
.Robinson, secretary, of the United Nations' Committee on the Peaceful Uses ofOuter Space, said in an inter­view. 
• "... Some in the Third World are concerned that things n<>t move so fast that they get left out or get in too late." 
The "frontier" atmosphere ofout­er space was underlined last year when NASA issued a new rule giving space shuttle commanders the power of arrest and authority to use force if necessary in orbit. Agency officials said the future arrival of large numbers of civilians in space. made the rule necessary. 
Four treaties now govern aspects of space travel. All were ratified by the United States ad the Soviet Uni­
on. 

Reagan vows speedy return to routine 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President 
Reagan, having his best day since he 
was wounded by gunfire, vowed 
yesterday to "suit up and come off 
the bench as soon as possible" to 
defend his economic program 
against alternatives shaped by House 
Democrats. 

Adoctor said the president "looks 
super" and "moves right along," and 
most likely will be ready to leave 
George Washington University 
Hospital over the weekend. Specula­
tion focused on Sunday as the likely 
homecoming. 

Aides said the chief xecutive had his "best day yet" in the hospital and is spending about two hours a day at work. A refurbished solarium is ready for his White House convales­cence, they said. 
Meanwhile, James S. Brady, the White House press secretary who was shot in the head during the as­sassination attempt, was said to have joked with an aide to Vice President George Bush about going shark fis· hing this summer. 
Brady's deputy, Larry Speakes, said his recovery so far was "really nothing short of a miracle." He reported that Dr. Dennis S. O'Leary, 
a . top hospital official, was "extremely optimistic that Brady could "return to his profession." 
But doctors have· said it could be a year before the full effects ofBrady's head wound and emergency brain surgery are known. 
Reagan seemed to have shaken his 
fever, and doses of one of the two 
antibiotics he· had been receiving 
were discontinued, a White House 
medical statement said. 

Reagan extended a morning meeting with top aides, met with congressional leaders in his hospital room, and conferred with Treasury Secretary Donald Regan about the administration response to an al· ternative tax-reduction plan ad· vanced by the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, Dan Rostenkowski, D-Ill. 
Although the president has lost some weight, according to Speakes, and one report said he was looking drawn, O'Leary said "1 think he looks super.. He moves right along. He doesn't favor his left side." 
It was Reagan's left lung that was wounded in an assassination attempt March 30. 
"We're looking to the weekend, Saturday or Sunday," for the presi­dent's discharge from the hospital, said O'Leary, the hospital's spokes­man during the president's stay there. 
• • .Focus 
continuedfrom page 1 

the Church is having in Brazil and on 
the Pope's stand for worker's rights. 
The Brazilian Congress has 
restricted the prescence of froeig·. 
ners in the country, which, Fr. Pel­
ton wrote,"could be a powerful 
weapon to wield against the reform­
minded churchmen." One-half of 
the religious order priests in Brazil 
are foreigners. 

The Pope was "unequivocally 
supportive of worker's rights," 
wrote Fr. Pelton. In the prescence of 
the Brazilian military president, "the 
Pope referred to the necessity for 
reforms in society and the fun· 
damental rights ofevery person." 
Fr. Pelton also wrote on the Pope's comments of the "pastoral closeness of the Brazilian bishops." The Pope said that the closeness "has not only given an internal strength to the Brazilian Church, but it also provided a model ofepiscopal solidarity for other national con· ferences of bishops." 
The Notre Dame Institute for Clergy Education, of which Fr. Pel· ton is founder and direct~>r, is marking its fifth anniversary this year with the three month spring in· stitute currently in progress at the University. According to Pelton, the program is designed for priests active in the ministry who wish to "update themselves theologically. pastorally and spiritually." 
The 48 participants in the program -2S religious and 23 diocesan priests -represent a variety of backgrounds. They in­clude high school and college teach· ing, counseling, pastoral and parish ministry and missionary work in South Africa, Saudi Arabia, India, Nigeria, and Thailand. 
Program highlights include such subjects as scripture, new aproaches in philosophy, ecclesiology since Vatican II, liturgy and sacraments, moral theology, justice and peace and others. 
The Observer 
Long-term commitment' 
NASA's future rides on shuttle 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) · 
Amc:r.ka's futun· in spa~.:c: r.idc:s with 
the: shuttle Columhia. 
SunTSS opt·ns tht· cosmil: high­
way with its limitlc:ss promisc:s. 
l;ailurc: t.·ausc:s incakulahlc: damage:, 
and months. pt·rhaps yc:ars. to 
rc:covt·r. 
"Tht· country has got an awful lot 
riding on our tirst flight," says John 
Young, c:ornmandn of Columbia's 
maidt·n voyage. "It'~ critical. and we: 
intnul to make it work." 
IJnlike Amnit·a's t•arlit-r mannt·d spat"t' projt·cts -dt·signnl to ht·at Russia to tht· moon -tht· shuttle: is not just a short·tt·rm program. It 
eprt·st.·nts a long·tt·rmcommitmt·nt 
o t.•stahlish a military. st.·it-ntitic and ·ommt·n·ial prcst.•nt"t' in span·. 
The program alretdy is mort· than two years behind scht·dulc hct:aust· of technical and mont'}" prohkms. The loss ofColumbia on tht· tirst test would mean immt·nst· embarass­ment and another kngthy delay. The sn·ond shuttle, tht· Challengn, will not bt· ready to fly li>r at least I H months -longt·r If Columbia's test revt·als a need for rc:dc:sign. 
John Yardley, ht·ad of the shuttle )rogram for tht· National t•ronautks and Spat·e Administra­ion, was asked yesterday about the 
impac:t if tht· shuttle doesn't work. 
"Aiot of pt:opk think it would be 
the tkath knc:ll of the U.S. space 
program," he: at.·knowlc:dged. 
However, he c:ontt:ndc:d, "It would 
be: a big sethac:k, it would prohahly 
cost us two yc:ars, hut the shuttle: 
would come hack, the space prgram 
would t.·onlt'back and it would be a 
hig SUl'ct'SS." 
NASA is weaning the Columbia 
gradually with four test flights 
sprt:ad ovt:r IZ. to I '\ months. 
Today, Young and Roht·rt Crippen 
arc: tlying a c:omparatively simple 
tirst mtsston, with tht: HO-ton 
spact:nafi later hl'ing suhjn·tt:d to 
innc:asingly mort: rigorous tests in 
orbit and on liftoff and landing. 
Thc:y are st.·hcduled to orbit the: 
Earth :\6 times in '\4 hour~. 
"This is tht: most complc:x vehicle: evc:r flown," said Crippen. "If we get Columbia up and hack down again and it's in shape: to fly again, it will be a succc:ssful mission." 
The flight plan calls for them to check and recheck Columbia's sys­tems -the computc:rs, life support, electronics, engines and the opt·ning and closing of tht: huge doors on tht: 60-foot-long cargo bay. 
And for the first time, an American manned spaceship is to return to Earth on land, testing Young's skills 
Friday, April I 0, 1981 -page 5 

as a pilot to guide it hack like a giant glider. Ifall goes well, landing will be at Rogers Dry Lake, a huge hard surface which provides soml' mar­gin for error. F_ollowing the fourth tt•st flight, touchdowns will bt: made on a 1 5,000-foot concrete runway nc:ar the launch pad at Cape Canaveral. 
From Edwards, Columbia, which is the: size of a metlium-rangt· DC-9 jc:tlincr. will he mounted atop a moditied Boeing 747 to he tlown hack to the Cape for inspc:ction anti prc:paration for !light No. 2, scht·duled for August or Scptc:mhn. 
On tlight No.3, in Dccemht·r or January, Columbia may carry its 11rst satdlite, a military package. into or­hit. The astronauts on that flight also arc to test a robot manipulator arm which will be ust:d later to deploy and retrieve payloads in space. 
If all goes well, the spaceship's first operational flight will be: about Septc:mher 1982. In the bay will he the shuttle's tirst commercial payload, TDRS, which stands for tracking and data relay satellite, ownc:d hy Space Communications Co. 

ll 
MEETING 
1ft 

SUNDAY APRIL 12th LaFortune Little Theatre 

7: 

-------------·---~~-­---­-------------­ 
STEPAN CENTER 7:30 pm I am/$5.00Friday April I 0 includes Judges' Jam Saturday April II 12:30 pm 5 pm/$2.50 6:30pm I am/$4.00 All FESTIVAL PASS /$8.50 NO Students /$7.50 JUDGES: Richard Dauis Joe Farrell Mel Lewis Jim McNeeley Dan Morgenstern Mike Vax Tickets on sale  

NOW in LaFortune 
or at the door. 
Officials outline abort procedures for shuttle 
CAPE CANAVERAL. Fla. ( AP) · An c:xplosion on the launch pad. A wrong-way rocket. The failure of an engine, or two. An c:mharassing U­turn to tht· Capt·. Forct·d landings in Spain or Okinawa or llawaii. Pagt· .H of tht· spagt· agency's press hook is t•ntitkd. simply. "lfThings Don't Go Right -Contingt:ndt:s." 
Space pt·opk have put as much thought into planning what to do if things go wrong with today's launch ofthe first spat·c shuttle as they have if things go right. 
Tht· word for l'llding the flight in varying dc:grc:cs of hurry is "abort." 
Tht· Mc:rcury, Gemini and Apollo spat·e t·apsulcs all were mountc:d bt•nt·ath cst·apt· rockt·ts to lift astronauts out ofdanger if there was 
Ia prohkm with the volatile: fuels hdow. Thc:re is no such rocket on the shuttle. 
! For tht· astronauts, one rathc:r primitive mean1> of launch pad !cs<.·apt· rc:mains: a haskc:t that slides ldown from ncar the cabin to the [ground into a hunker or a waiting armored pt·rsonnd t·arrier. Tht· astronauts also have standard ejec­tion scats used in high altitude rc:conaissant·c: planes. There's a question if tht·y'd he much hc:lp, since the: pilots would he near the 
firt·ball of an explosion. John Young and Robert Crippc:n 
1 can usc ejection St:ats up to I00,000 feet. Mission planners say they would eject in tht· event of "loss of control or impending catastrophic failure," or Joss of any two of the three main engines. 
Tht· shuttle is an untried space naft. In earlier space programs, the: , National Aeronautics and Space Ad­
1 
ministration sent up unmanned vehicles on test tlights designed to unt.·ovcr disastrous flaws. The shuttle -which lands on a runway like a glider -was deemc:d too com­
. plkatc:d for that. 
Thus, tht· Columbia t·harts virgin tl'fritory and NASA officials pray that It's all-new power systems do not m<.·et tht· fate of early unmanned rockets which l'xploded off the launch pad, or went haywire and had to he detonated In flight by remote control. 
NASA and the a-;tronauts arc confi­dent. hut painstaking detail has been dc:voted to "contingencies." 
For the first 4 I/2 minutes of flight, Young and Crippen havt· tht: options of making a U-turn and returning to the long. I '\,000-foot runway at Kennedy Space Center on the Cape. Tht· vt:hiclt· would drop its boosters and use its two rt•maining engines to do the about-face then glide to a landing. 
If there is power, but not much, 
Columbia  could  make  a  cross­ 
Atlantic  beeline for the  U.S.  Navy  
base at Rota, Spain.  

jurygives 
guilty 
verdict 
NEW YORK, (AP)-A jury yester­day found the Sam Goody Corp. and one of the record-store chain's top executives guilty of dealing in $1 million worth ofcounterfeit tapes of such hit albums as "Greao;e" and "Saturday Night Fever." 
"This verdict is very disappoint-• ing," said the defense lawyer, Ken­nt·th Holmes, "but this is not tht· end ofthe road." 
U.S. District Judge Thomao; C. Platt announced that he would hear argu­ment on motions to set aside the ver­dict early in May, but set no exact date. 
Samuel Stolon, 64. of Qut·cns, a vice-presidt:nt of the corporation, was convicted of one count each of copyright infringement and inter­state shipmc:nt of illegal goods and could get a maximum penalty of I I years in prison and a $35,000 fine. 
The corporation, one of the na­tion's biggest retailers of records and tapes, could he fined up to $95,000 for three counts of copyright infringement and two counts of interstate shipment. 
The jury in Brooklyn ddibt•rated 
42 hours over 5 1/2 days. 
---~------------------------·--------------­
Friday, April10, 1981 -page 6Editorials  
Columnists mustavoid sensationalism Part of the plight of the student federal government decided not to "The whole thing has been a similar to mine intensifies my dis­low point for journalists columnist is that he never knows if take legal action. very unpleasant experience and appointment with him and his everywhere when sensationalism you, the readers, are reading the "I'm sorry the whole thing hap­has brought out the ugly side in editors. Every writer wants to see which borders on the macabre product. Whenever someone ex­pened," Kurtzman said. "I believe people through their reaction." his words read by as many people becomes the norm for student presses some reaction to his writ­that in no way did the column pose I don't think my reaction has as possible. When the final tabula­journalists. ten word, either positive or a threat to the President." brought out my ugly side, but I tions are in, this year's most widely negative, the student columnist is Kurtzman went on to defend the must admit that I was appalled by read college journalist will be I will admit that I am jealous of inevitably elated. He is even more paper's right to print the article, al­· the piece from the column I first Dominic. Here is the irony, since the attention Dominic has pleased when a branch of the though he refused to categorize read in Newsweek. Uke Dominic, I by his irresponsibility he has received and of the readership he legitimate, professional media sees Dominic's work as "responsible think of myself as a liberal. Unlike proven (if only to me) that he is has garnered. At the same time, I fit to quote or even reprint his journalism." Dominic I have no wish to see the the least deserving of all college am not prepared to resort to his work. When that happens it proves "If it had been accepted in an­President die. Nor do I rely on sen­writers for such exposure. distasteful tactics to attain such an unquestionably that somebody is other newspaper or magazine and sationalist journalism to make my end. I am hoping there is a more listening and, most importantly, It is an easy task to blurt out sen­had been approved by that point. honorable route to Dominic's taking the student columnist sationalism and hysterical fame.publication's governing board, I Writing a column is part of the seriously. opinions founded on emotion andwould have to stand by it as a mem­public trust and, while I believe We at The Observer have been unsupported by sense or fact. It is a ber of that publication. Dom's ar­that every viewpoint deserves to fortunate this year to send a few more difficult task to propose aticle doesn't necessarily have a be aired, that trust must be tem­Michael Onufrak, formerly The storks out over the AP wire, see coherent argument and substan­place in the Daily Pennsyl­pered with common sense. That Observer's editorials editor, is a our sports columnists cited in daily vanian," he said. Dominic holds a position very tiate it objectively. And it will be a seniorfrom Malvern, Pa. newspapers in Chicago and Detroit, and even receive mention in a syndicated column or two. Even I had one of my humble ef­forts covered by the South Bend Hunger crisis in East Africa a real one Tribune recently. None of us, however, has received quite the same exposure There is i:alk of starving people fants become a cruelcliche, which, comodated by our consciousness plentiful, 20 million starvingas one of our brothers in student in distant lands. Such talk often like locusts and darkness over the so habituated to a world of Africans do not enter into our na­journalism, Dominic Manno ofthe reaches us in our world of com­land, never take root in our con­economic advantage, frisbees on tional interest. And we distinguishUniversity of Pennsylvania's Daily forts, and if we cared to listen we sciousness as a reality; we are con­the quad, McDonald's and TV sit­between obligation and charity,Pennsylvanian. Not only has would hear staggering figures of tent to simply sense some echo of coms. We only wish to acknowl­political reality andDominic's work been duly noted human misery. Ifwe looked for but moral instruction, some faint edge the more comforting humanitarianism, those latterby the press, he has also seen a a minute we would never forget pricking ofconscience that moves dimensions of reality. Talk of being some semblance ofacting onparagraph from one of his most the jolting images of withered and us to drop a nickel in mission starvation, images of agony -the possibility of a reality outsiderecent columns reprinted in the dusty old men or dark, emaciated boxes. This talk of starving people these encroach upon our carefully of us. Even such distinctions makenational news weekly Newsweek. infants with grossly bloated bellies, seems just an instructional little constructed perception of ~hat it ominous presuppositions aboutBy my estimate Dominic's reader­staring out with empty eyes at the fairy tale. means to be human. reality. Utterly fundamental to theship was upped by several million hostile wasteland oftheir world. Despite the grimness of human World hunger is a grave Christian vision ofwhat it means otreaders. Not bad for a student Over twenty million people face suffering -or perhaps because of problem because it is so terrifying­be human is moving out ofone'scolumnist, or any other kind of starvation in drought-striken East it ­we choose to relegate it to the ly real. In an ironic sense, hunger selfinto compassion for others, forwriter for that matter. Africa, up to sixty million in the unreal. We ignore misery, or admit does in fact dimisnish the very each neighbor in whom is ChristYou may have already perused whole continent. And yet, talk of it cautiously, in controllable doses. meaning of being human: it wastes himself -and this not as an oc­the quote which launched famines in Africa seems to strike us This may be because we cannot human potentiality as much as casional charity, but as the veryDominic on the road to notoriety; Like Old Testament plagues -dis­comprehend the subtle ironies of physical life; it erodes the lives of substimce of human growth. Onbesides Newsweek it has appeared tant, a bit of a fantasy with some human reality. The facts and persons as dserving dignity, the societal level, with its claim toin roughly I 00 other media faint moral hint. The starving in-figures of famine are not well ac-growth and love as ourselves. But greater tangibility, the imperativesources. The passage cited was ignoring hunger also erodes the is no less profound: justice andfrom a column Dominic wrote meaning of being human. Inas­political reality merge into the ter­concerning the attempted assas­much as we are caring, compas­rible necessity that we cannotsination of President Reagan. Doonesbury Garry Trudeau sionate beings, to ignore suffering ignore massive human misery; itRemarking on the failed assassina­ofothers is in effect to deny part of threatens our economic structurestion, Dominic said that he ourselves. We become less real by and political stability, and its ef­regretted that an "amateur" had RJCJ(, I'M AFRAID HOW LAC&YRE­trying to deny the reality ofothers fects reverberate back into our na­been sent to do a professional's PI&'RE 601N6 7D /A/HAT'sCIJM£.'? MINOEOM&HAV£70 COM£. THAT? in need ofour care. tional interest as members of ajob. He also expressed his wish CF A CfJNFL-ICT.UP IA/fTH A Nt/AI This conflict of realities is also highly interdependent global com­that President Reagan not recover I II CI4TF3. I enacted on the level of societies. munity.from his wound. Dominic charac­Here in our nation of abundance The hunger and refugee crisis in terizedjohn Hinckley as "someone and influence we are told by our East Africa is very real, and ifwe arewho could get upset and angry policy-makers that we haven't the human at all it must evoke in us aenough abut the political system to time to deal with idealistic non­very real concern and positive ac­use a bullet to cancel out the bal­sense like solving world hunger tion. Human lives, as human as our­lot." Dominic ckverly entitled his because we have to face the realis­selves, arc being destroyed. Peacecolumn "The Ballot and the Bul­tic threat of Communist aggres­and stability in the internationalle!." sion. That ideological warfare community are seriouslyMedia reaction was swift and between superpowers is more threatened. The Presidential Com­vociferous, and after reading deserving of the name "realistic" mission on World Hunger in its.Vell'sll'eek I decidnl to join the than 20 million starving and report last year said that dspitc thefray. I phoned the Penn paper yes­diseased human beings is a very severity of the problem, it is pos­terday afternoon and was informed disturbing assertion, and probably sible to eliminate the worst aspectsthat Dominic was not around and a very unwise one as well. The of hunger by the year 2000. Buthis column had been discontinued. SO roRATH&f<. I WNNO.PRINCE CHARI13 world hunger crisis corrodes the this will not only necessitate theHowever, I did talk to the paper's (KJR GU£5!5U/EI!EN'T THAT MIGHT15 6ffl!N6 MAR­meaning of human society just as far-reaching policy changes theeditor. Andrew Kurtzman. By AU. IN THE O£N TAf<E. 50M£ OFRl£00N lH£3 starvation docs the individual vic­Report recommended; it will firstAndrew's estimation I was the 40th SAM£ PAY. /AI/ITCHING T.V. lH£ PR£551/f!& I OFF tims. Hunger destabilizes political, take recognition of the reality ofjournalist who had interviewed economic and cultural structures, hunger. We have to look on thehim since the column appeared. and poses as teal a threat to peace countless devastated victims, thelie said he guessed that the paper as does military aggression. To emaciated infant and the crippledhas received some sixty letters ignore world hunger as a priority old man -and we have to dare(almost all against) pertaining to in our myopic hierarchy of cry, for them and for ourselves.the piece of journalism. He added realities is as dangerous a policy asthat about 30 angry phone calls it is illusory. William O'Brien, a seniorhave also flooded the paper's Perhaps we are guilty ofdetlning English and Theology majoroffice. Dominic and his family have reality according to our own ex­residing in Stanford Hall, wasfor­been the recipients of several perience. Because I eat, hunger is merly the education officer ofdeath threats and it was only the no ·more than a myth; because CILA.day before yesterday that the America's food resources are  

Editorial Board and Department Managers
====Ihe=o~~~==== 
Editor-in-Chief. ......................john McGrath SMC Executive Editor .....................Mary Agnes Carey 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
.1-tanaging Editor ... Tom Jackman SMC News Editor ................................Cathy Domanico 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students ot the 
Executille .Veu·s Editor... . ......... Lynne Daley Photo Editor....................... ..........................John Macor
Jniversity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessaril~ 
Neu·s Editor ........................................Tim Vercellotti 
eflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is n:poneJ 
.Veu•s Editor..... . .............. John Higgins Business Managt>r ... .........Rich Coppola ts accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinwn of a Senior Copy Editor. ....\1ary Fran Callahan Controller....................................................... .)oe Mulflur najority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the v1ews Sports Editor ........ ......... Michael Ortman Advertising Manager ......................................Mark Ellis >f their authors. Column space is available to all members of the communltv. and Features Editor... . ....Rick Hermida Production Manager ................... Ryan Ver Berkmoes he free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. Circulation Manager ........................Tom MacLennan 
----------------------·---~--~--~-~---------------­
Friday, April 10, 1981 -page 7 
Features 
Regrets like broken china 
T
he priest had bt·en standing at the door, greeting people a.~ they left church after the evening Mass. lie grasped hands as quickly as he could as the crowd flowed past; hut the people moved so quickly, there wa.~ no time to say more than hello to anyone. suddenly he was greeting a woman whom he was sure he knew, but couldn't identify. He nearly let her slip past him with a handshake when he recognized her a.~ a precious friend who had hc:en away. Quickly he hugged her, remember· ing at the same time that she had been living through an 
Rev. Robed Griffin 
Letters To A Lonely God 
ordeal. "With the: nc:w hair-do," he said, "I didn't recognize you." 
"You knew that I have been sick?" she said. lie nodded yes. he had heard of her illness, but he almost hadn't bclic:vcd it could be true. She was too wonderful a pnson to be touched by illness. Her energies would ddeat the trickery ofany disea.~e. 
"I lost my hair,"she said. "I'm wearing a wig." 
"!low sad," he thought. "How stupid of me not to have guessed." Be<:ause he couldn't think ofanything else to say, hut also because he meant it, he said: "I would lovt· to have lunch with you very soon." lm­mc:diately, he hated himself for sounding trivial. 
Precious meetings, sometimes, happen so qickly. A moment comes that you're not prepared for, offering you the sight ofa dear, familiar face that you wished you saw very often. You need language as a spontaneousgift ofthe ht·art -words that will unerringly reflect caring and cherishing, a.~ honest as the hospitality ofa home wht•rt· the tea is served in pricelesscups. The meeting is over before you're in control of things. Being clumsy, you It-t grace slip away because you didn't understand matters quickly enough. No one blames you, but you blame yourself. Regrets lie like broken china on the floor ofyour mind. 
I have made her doubt hersc:lf, the priest thought. When we've: been sick, we try to read the eyes ofour friends, to understand what they arc seeing when they look at us. Their concern for us worries us. When I go to sec my mother, the priest thought, she is thinking: do I seem older? Is he worried because I don't see him as bright? 
People change all the time, for age or sickness, or from going on diets and having their faces lifted. How do you tell a woman she's as beautiful as ever, thought the priest, despite the temporary difference ofa wig? 
She is 6eautiful, he thought. She's a beautiful woman, and it was wonderful to sec her, and I want her to know that I think so. Beauty is not a word they would have used between them. She would have laughed with pleasun· if he had told her she was beautiful, but she would have doubted whether she was uniquc:ly beauti· ful. All ofthe times they were together, as she talked or laughed or listened, he was thinking: how lovely she is. How special a day day becomes when we have had lunch together. 
The beauty we remember in women we love has strength in it, and courage, sympathy, generosity, and warmth. It is tender and thoughtful, and it invites us to lean when we need to borrow strength. When we doubt ourselves, such a love says: I understand what you arc feeling; in a little while, after you have sighed or wept or grieved, you will feel better. Then you will try again, and you will be successful. Such an affirmation from a friend is like a sacrament from God that finds some small goodness in a damaged life and raises it to the power ofa cardinal virtue. 
It feels like a sin to let a woman wonder if life has changed her, the priest thought, when I can tell at a glance, she's more beautiful than ever. I should have let her know at once I was delighted to sec her, he thought. I should have hugged her first, and t asked questions later. What would have been the harm ofcherishing a stranger? No harm at all, he answered himself, when you recognize the stranger as a beautiful woman. Having been sick, she wasn't sure ofherself. He wa.~ stupid to say that for a moment, he didn't recognize her. "But I never said she wasn't beautiful," he thought. 
He hoped that she knew she was beautiful. He hoped that she knew she would be beautiful forever. 
Priests, he realized, arc so quick to reassure people about forever. Forever must seem such an ironic as­surance to people whom tht· priest has worried, be­cause he didn't recognize them immediately when he greeted them after Mass at the church door. 
Trivia XIX: Woodstock 
T
his week's quiz is on the three-day rock festival, held injuly, 1969, known as Woodstock. 
I. Who owned the tract ofland on which the festival wa.~ held? 
2. 
Ncar what New York town wa.~ Woodstock held? 

3. 
This group, who named themselves aftt•r a line in a No. I song from 1958, had been together for only several weeks when they were invited to perform at Woodstock. Today tht·y arc still together and very well known despite never having a bona fide hit record. What group is it? 

4. 
Who performed immediately before janisjoplin? 

5. 
Who performed last? 


6. 
This singer-songwriter performed during the famous rainstorm which took place during the festival, and was so movt·d hy the ex­perience that she wrote a song about it. It later made the Top Ten on the charts. What song and who wrote it? 

7. 
This group had been together for only a short time when they ap­peared at Woodstock. Notable for having a former membt•r ofCream in their lineup, they lasted until the early seventies, breaking up after a Top 40 single, several hit albums, and lots ofFM airplay. 

8. 
Woodstock was this supergroup's second concert ever; in fact, one ofthe band members acknowledged that fact to tht· crowd. What group was it? 

9. 
Among the many performers there wa.~ the band which, at that time, was the hottest-selling act in America. Oddly, none ofthe material they performed appeared on the two Woodstock compila­tion albums. What hand was it? 

10. 
For three days, the festival site became "the third largest city in New York." Yet, for a "city" its size, there was a remarkably low death rate. How many people died at Woodstock during the festival? 



TimNee(y 

Chautauqua presents 
Hierophant Theatre 
I
n ancknt (;rct'l'C, the hierophant was the ollkial interpreter of saned mysterks or religious knowkdgc. Tht·se rites wt·re held in honor ofPersl·phone and Demeter who rule the growth ofthe harvest. 
Today, tht· theatre is tht· hil'rophant. It acts as a temple ofcelebra­
tion, t·duG!tion, and entertainment. The goal ofThe llkrophant 
Theatre is to lead the audkncl' from their worldly concerns and to 
communicate the mysteries oftheatre. 
Established in the fall of 19HO hy Aubrey Pane andjdTSanticola and 
Dan Dunchcon, two Notn· Dame alumni, the llierophant Theatrt· per­
limns in the South lknd area with the hope ofexpressing themselves. 
They dt·hull·d at the Century Center with You're a (iood Man, 
Cbarlie llrown and followed it up with (iodspell. Both ofthese 
productions received wide acclaim and laid the necessary fondation 
for a successful company. 
llnliJrtunatcly, llicrophant's following two presentations, Tommy 
and Hair did not provoke any significant public interest and forced 
the theatre to make some decisions ahout its future. 
Century Center was a beautiful and opportune facility in which to 
perform, but lal·k of parking space and and patrons financially forced 
us to find a new stage, commented Dave Dincolo, group manager. 
And that's where Cbautauqua fits in. Being the new night spot of 
Notre Dame, Chautauqua is successfully bringing in new entertain· 
mcnt. It was namt·d after a late 19th century institution in which con· 
n·rts and drama were performed out oftents by traveling troups. How 
appropriate that it will house the orphanncd llicrophant Theatre. 
Chatttauqua is dedicating itselfto bring tine theatre and music to the 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's student body, and the llicrophant is looking 
for an appreciative, stimulatingaudience. Perhaps it will find one here. 
The llkrophant Theatre's current production is a two-act drama 
called Where has Tommy Flowers Gone? written by Terrence McNal­
ly. The play is directed by JcffSanticola. It will open April 23 at 8 p.m 
and run through April 26 at Chautauqua on the second floor of 
LaFortune. The continuance ofthe group depends on the success of 
Tommy Flowers. What the company is really hoping li1r is a lot of 
patronagt· and a lot ofpositive feedback from a student audience. 
Am:y Murra_y 

Ryan Ver Berkmoes was stricken down by a bad box ofpopcorn this week. His "Reel Reviews" will retum next Thursday In expandedfonn. A nr~mhe,·of films, including .ferry lewis' Hardly Working (pictured abor,e) will be reviewed to give guidance to br~nnies and people alike who are bored during the briefEaster break. 
• 


~The Obsener 
~«:)cJl~~========================F=ri=da=y,=A=pr=il=lO=,=l9=8=1==p=ag=e=8
Campus 
FRIDAY, APRIL 10 
•12:
15 p.m. -lenten mass: fr. griffin, Ia fortune rathskellar. 

• 
2: 15 p.m. -collegiate jazz festival judge's symposium. room I I 5 crowley music hall. open to the public. 

• 
3:30 p.m. lecture: "research in process: multiple identities" dr. sheldon stryker, indiana university,_ bloomington. 121 hayes healy. spons: sociology and anthropol­


ogy. 
•3:30 
p.m. -ultimate frisbee club practice. south quad by flagpole. 

•4 
p.m. -moot court: final arguments. mem. lib. aud. spons: Jaw school. 

• 
5: I 5 p.m. -mass and supper at bulla shed. all welcome. 

•1 
p.m. -meeting: an tostal meeting. little theatre n.d. 

•7 
p.m. -film: "i am joaquin" and "yo soy chicano" rm -117 haggar. free admission. spons: mecha. 

•7,9, 
II p.m. -"goodbye girl," engineering auditorium, $1 ad· mission. 

•':30 
p.m. -collegiate jazz festival. admission SS. includes judge's jam! weekend pass 58. 50( S7. 50 nd students). stepan center. 

•s 
p.m. lions club travelogue: "new england sampler" o'laughlin aud. tickets at the door. 

•8 
p.m. -theatre: "notes from the nile" washington hall. all welcome. 

•8,10:30 
p.m. -film: "funny girl" carroll hall smc. spons: sapb. 

•8 
p.m. -symposium: "the politics of merality" university village center, 222 e. cripe st. 

•8:15 
p.m: -recital: sherilyn welton; graduate student cello recital. crowly recital hall. ac­companied by william carpen­ter, pianist. 

SATURDAY, APRIL 11 

•exam: 
engineers-in-training. engr. aud. 

•9 
a.m. -respect life week ecumenical prayer breakfast. bethel college campus center. 

•1 
1 a.m. -seminar: "politics & theology: from enlightenment catholicism to the condemna· tion of americanism". prof. joseph chinnici, franciscan school of theology. 600 mem. library. 

•12:00 
p.m. -respect life week, concert: jeff steinberg featured, and picnic south quad or mem. lib. aud.( 1p.m.) if it rains. 

•!2:30-5 
p.m. -collegiate jazz festival: admission 52.50 stepan center. 

•1 
p.m. -ultimate frisbee club challenges valparaiso. madeleva field, smc. all spec­tators welcome. 

•6:30 
p.m.-I a.m. -collegiate jazz festival. admission 54.00 stepan center. 


•7 
p.m. -film: "only once in a lifetime" rm. 117 haggar. free. mecha. 
• 
7 p.m. -art opening-all galleries-smc senior com­prehensives. 

•7:30 
p.m.. -harlem globetrot­ters basketball. ace. S6 and S7 tickets: 

•s 
p.m.-play: "notes from the nile" washington hall, nd. 


SUNDAY, APRIL 12 •6:30-7:30 p.m. -dancin1 irish tryouts. ace pit. 
•8 
p.m. -smc women's choir, wabash men's choir, wabash college orchestra perform haydn's "the creation" dr. raymond sprague. conductor. little theatre, smc. 

•8:30 
p.m. -mass: an tostaJ committee mass, ~rotto. 


Molarity 
!GooP GrAM£ ... REf1EHBER. 
... AND You PL.AYEJ:> 50 ~ IIS NOT WHETHER YOU WIN 
BADLY YOU L05T(OR LOSE, IT'6 HoW YDU PLAY 11-/£ C,AM£ ... 
l 
Michael Molinelli 
DON'T oTAfi'C:. Jlt-1 . NO ONE IN MY I="AMILY 
HAS EVER 6W£.trr£D 

• l'V£ €0Nf.OVER'(aJR REcoRDS 
~PTC'£'.

AND I THINK I'VE FOU~P AWA'(WSA'I£ AlOTOF TAX BY FlUNG Aror<M 10-JfZ~S 'rniS YEAR. 
ACROSS 28 Repudiate 1 Alone, on 31 Lead-'s

The Daily Cross\\rord 
stage life 6 Swab 32 Jabber 10 Agans's 34 Miscellany land 35 Fork 14 City NEof feature Venice 36 Signal 15 Waterless light16 Inside: 37 -Bator 

pref. 38 Sprite 17 Ronstadt 39 Fry 18 Sinks 40-and void 20 Suffered 41 Starts 22 N.H. city anew 23 Thin and 43 Allover 
piping 45 Coffee· 24 Vikki of makers song 46 English 25 Ten years novelist 

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

All Rights Reserved 1 48 "Pagliacci" 
clown 50 Splitting 54 Softball pitch 56 Garden 
bloomer 57 Charges 58 "It's a sin 
to tell-" 59 Charter 60 Smallpie 61 Seeto 62 Brackish 
DOWN Pacific archipelago 

2 Norsegod 3 Jenny the 
nightingale 4 Not adult 5 Parched 6 Carried on 7 Literary 
device 8 Mondrian 9 Script 
revisers, 

for short 10 Classes 11 Price too 
low 12 Arab port 13 Additional 19 Edict 21 -Willie 
Winkle 
24 Adduce 25 Office stamp 26 Roman magistrate 27 One that puzzles 28 Have the moxie 
29-sides (every· where) 
30 In a weak 
way 32 To boot 33 Squealer 36 Aficionados 37 Submarine 39 Caballero 42 Padre 43 Bankroll 44 Utopian 
hopes 46 Arrest 47 Done 48 Growing 
bunch of plants 49 "-penny, two a .... " 50 Bargain event 51 Kind of 
type: abbr. 52 Aerie 53 Writer Zane 55 Topperor 
cloche 

GET INVOLVED! 
SERVICES commiSSION APPLICATIONS AQE AVAILABLE FOR THE FOLLOWING POr"-10NS: 
JAsst. Commissioner ~ Free U. Coord. ~JBook Exchange Cool). 
~  Special projects Coot.  
~  Stepan mall Coot.  
~  Refrigerator Rental Coot.  
~  On-Campus mailman  
(Paid Position)  

Applications available at the Student Union· office on the Second Floor of LaFortune. Applications ate due Frida , A rll 10. 

-
The Observer Friday, April 10, 1981 -page 9 

Irish 
nmtinuedfrom {HJJ!,e 12 
fc.-rc.·nn·. "That's an c.·xcl'llcnt baseball kague," says Gallo. "Western Michigan has a vt·ry good hitting team and good tt·am spc.·nl. Two of thl'ir playns rt·ally stand out in my mind. t hl'ir shortstop Ray Thoma ( ..H<J last season) and first ha~t·man Mark Gt'fald. They're both outstanding hall players anc.l vital to tIll' team's success. 
"When Gnald J:Ot injured in the 
'·,;:·"<>""" 

Aftt:r their poor start on the spring trip. the Irish own a II-3 record and 7-1 at home. "The.· turnaround was a matter of just winning a gamt'," says Gallo. "We lost so many dose games down South and th<'sc kids knew thc.·y could win. The hall players mental toughness was the kc.·y. Once we won a game.·, we rcmt·mhered how to win, and then· was no way we were going to tokratc.· losing so many games in a row." 
Following layoff 
Women's tennis back in action 
By CRAIG CHV AL 
.Sports lf'riter 
Nobody could blame the Notre Dame women's tennis tt·am if it con­tracted a sc.-rious case of cabin fc.·vc.T 
Since returning from their spring break West t Coast trip, the Irish haven't facet! any live competition in nearly three weeks. But that all ends in a hurry this weekend, when Notre Dame ventures to the Great Lakes State for three matches in as many days. The Irish square off with Michigan this afternoon before moving on to Detroit to face Wayne State tomorrow. They dose the mini-trip with a Sunday matinee in East Lansing against Michigan State. 
Michigan and Michigan State arc Division I schools, while the Tartars, like Notre Dame, compc.·tt· at the Division II level. 
"Mit'higan should be our bigggcst test this weekend," predicts Irish coach Sharon Petro, who has guided hc.·r squad to a 16-4 dual match record. "They traditionally have powerful teams, and this season is no exception. litH it's very important that the girls concentrate and pta:· up to their ahilitks in all three matches." 
The Irish, who captured the In­diana AlAW Division II crown last fall to qualify for next month's Divi­sion II regional tournament in Detroit, should have their state championship lineup intact. 
Mary Legcay, tht· winningest player in Notre Dame women's ten­nis history, has been given the green light to play both singles and doubles. She was limited to just doubles on the West Coast to rest strained tendons in her ldt wrist. Legeay teamed with frc~hman Pam Fischctte w capture the.· state crown at second doubles, while finishing second at number-five singles. Her combined record for the I<JHO-H I 
campaign is 2H·2. 
"Mary has made a lot of improve­
ment," says Petro. "ller hand is to 
the point now that she can play hoth 
singles and doubles. She's still 
working to gt·t her ground strokes 
all the way hack, but her serve is 
probably stronger right now than it 
was in the fall." 

last quarter of the season, it really================================hurt tht·m. They wt·rc.· the only team to ht·at us twice and those.· wert· con· trovt"rsal gamc.·s. They arc our big­gest rival and wc.·'re looking forward 
• • .Joyce

to two difficult gamc.·s with them." The.· serks rc.·t·orc.l hetwc.·c.·n the-------------------------------­
duhs is all knotted up at 46-46-1. 
Saturday will prove to he.· no easier wht·n Nvtrc.· Dame.· takc.·s on the.· Mus­kc.·tc.·ns of Xavkr University. Xavier. 27-12 last st·ason. began this Wt'l'k with an imprt·ssivc.· 16-<; record. 
"The Xavier games will he.· two more.· vt·ry important games," com­ments Gallo, "and they've always had good hall players in the past. Thc.·sc.· fin1r gamc.·s will ht·crudal and wt·'rc taking tht·m one at a tin!l·." 
The.· Mu~kc.·tc.Trs arc a ht·avy hit­ting hall duh. Six of the starting players own averages over the ..~60 mark. They an· kad hy ll'ftfidder Rusty Staab (not to ht· umfust;d with till' :\<kts' ~luggn) with a .-41 <) clip and otllfklc.lt·r-thirc.l baseman John l'rey hitting at an even .·100. 
<)n the.· mound, Xavkr is strong. Jim Rl'idc.·r, who has appcarc.·d in I I games so far, boasts a c;. I rt·t·onl and a 5..~<; ERA. Another t'Xt'l'lknt hur­kr, <;ary l'ranke. has a perh:ct 3-0 rc.Tonl and an outsta•lding 1.32 ERA. 
Tht· Irish pitchc.·rs scht·dukd to start this atic.-rnoon against the Bronn>s arc.· Boh Bartkit ( -~-2) and Bill Matrc.· ( 2-0 ). Stc.·vt· W'hitmyt~r ( 2­
1 ) and l'ithn Mikt· I >casey ( 2-2) or Bryan Smith ( 1-2) will go against the.· 
· :\<lu~kc.·tt·c.·rs. 
"Our pitt·hing has not htTn what I c.·xpc.·ctc.·d," says (;allo, "hut I have to giVl' the kids c.:rnlit, they'rt· really hanging in there." 
continuedfrom page 12 
"I hope.· vn·'rc.· not so far apart from the otht·r schools that we can't he reproduced," joyce says. "I deplore dishonesty -I'd like to sc.·c.· it l"liminated locally. It would he great if football had the.· same image.· na· tionally that it has here." 
Part of the.· reasons such dis· cn·pancies occur is the win-at-all-costs attitudt· that Joyce fears could crippk college athlc.-tics. 
"I want to set· college athll'tics get away from exploitation." he· em­phasizes. "I don't know that we've ever exploited a timthall player If ~o. I'd like to sec him come here and \ tdl llll' about it. If we have, you could count them on the lingers of tlllt' hand, and even in those.· in­stances I bdic.·vc it would be just in their minds otnd not a rc.·ality." 
Joyce indkts the National Col­legiatl' Athlc.-til' Association as ht:ing int"ffi:cti\'l' in dealing with the problems that exist. 
"The NCAA is so big, so amor­phous, that i~ has no strkt visions as to what its dutic.·s and rt·spon­sihilities should he.·," he daims. "The.· job of the.· NCAA should he to bring integrity, hont·sty and rt·spc.·ctahility to collegt· lilothall and haskt·thall." 
Anothc.-r issue looming large on college l<>othall's horizon is thl' quc.:stion of television revenues and the desire of many smaller institu­tions to grah a slice of the.· very lucrativc pic. Joyce· is skeptical about widespread revenue sharing. 
"llarvard doc.·sn't shan· any of,its endowment," he begins. "Why, tht·n. should we share our tdevision revenue? As far as I'm concerned. television is an extension of the gate. As long as these.· arc.· honestly-earned dollars, I sc.-c no reason why we should be ohligated to share them with llarvard or Princeton." 
In the midst of the dishonesty, cheating and petty quibbling over dollars and cents that pt'fmeatc.·s the sea of college athletic~. Notre Dame is an island of sorts, largely due to Fr. Joyce and his relentless adherence to Notre Dame's principll's. As they ncar the .~Oth anniversary of their tenure as presidnll ami executive vice-president. hoth lle~hurgh and Joyce have frequc.·ntly hcc.·n rumored to hl' considering retire­mt·nt. 
.Joyce is noncomJTtittal about his future, hut lleshurgh. who aln·ady has submitted his own resignation, 
feds  very  strongly  ahout  Joyce  
staying on.  
"There's  no  rc.·ason  he  should  

retire," Heslmrgh says tirmly. "They arc still goii1g to need his services. I've hecn enormously lucky to have him and so would anybody else." 
Senior Cindy Schuster returns for her second full season as Notre Dame's number-one singles player, followed hy Linda Hoyer at second singles, where she won her second state title in as many years last fall. Fischettc, who was votc.·d hy her teammates as the squad's most valuable player, boasts a 22-2 record at number-three singles. Carol Shukis, who has more singles vic­tories than any player in Notre Dame women's annals, is a fixture at fourth singles, while Peggy Walsh is set at number-six. Fischette, Shukis and Walsh c.·ach captured state singles championships last fall. 
"Peggy tias really turned her game around," marvels Petro of the S-1 Walsh, who owns a 3.9 grade-point 
average in chemistry. "She uscll to 
he afraid to come to the net because 
of her height, but now she's really 
comfortable there." 
Besides Legeay and Fischctte at 
number-two, the rest of Petro's 
doubles slate reads: Hoyer and Tina 
Stephan at first and captain Sheila 
Cronin and Stasia Ohremskey at 
number-three. All three doubles tan­
dcms earned state crowns. 
, , 
1 

"It's been a long time.· since we've playt"d anybody hut oursdves," says Petro, "so I'm sure tht· girls arc anxious to gt·t going. It will he a good chance for us to see how much progress we've made over the win­ter. and also to sec if we've hc.·c.·n able to correct some of the.· flaws we spotted out in California." 
The Irish will return homt· to play host to Division Ill powc.·r DePauw Wec.hwsc.lay, April IS at Courtney TennL' Center. The Tigns handed Notre Dame one of its two fall defeats, a 7-2 thumping in (;reen­castle, Ind. The Irish playc.·d without sevaal of their top players in that match, including Hoyer and Lt-gl·ay.
·-------,
I BUY I 
I OBSERVER I ICLASSIFIEDS I
,_______.. 
University Park Mall and Town and Country Mishawaka 


• 
dependable, top-maintained power-lift tailgates or handy Chc··Jrolets and other fine trucks loading ramps • hand trucks and 

• 
local or one-way at low rates turnlturo pads; tow bars lo trailer 

• 
panel vans and 12-ft. vans with your car • nationwide road ser­auto-shlrt, othor sizes to move vice • moving tips • lnsu '1\nco LIP to 7 rooma of furniture • • major credit cat da honored 


,must be 18 years of age with valid driver's license 
[IIIE®IJ Ryder Truck Rental-One-Way 
. 
~~­

~~~;'~,-~~~~~~~~ 
"Call us now to .reserve your truck at the Ryder dealer near your home or business" 
277-3550 
2715 North Hendix Dr. 
South Bend, ln. National Information &customer service: 800 327·7~ 17 

I 
I 
I I 
I I -The Observer Friday, April10, 1981 -page 10 
l 
'Real season' begins
I I 
' Track teatll travels to Arkansas
I' 
I 
By MATT HUFFMAN meets to prepare for the season, and pionships is '51.34. SIU also has a
i 
I 
Sports Writer to work out the kinks from our strong miler in Karsten Schulz. layover from the indoor season. Freshman Steve Stubblefield is a 
Jonesboro, Arkansas, should be a That's why both those meets were pole vaulter who should shine for
I 
welcome sight to the visiting Notre non-scoring, so we could just relax the host team. Last year, Stubblefield
I 
Dame track team this weekend. and get ready for the season." was the top prep vaulter in the na­
I 
Something in Arkansas a welcome tion with a best of 17-6.
I 
sight? The Arkansas State meet always
I 
Arkansas has Arkansas State Uni­has quality teams and this year's slate
I 
The outstanding entrant in theI versity (not the Razorbacks) and is consistent with past tradition. The meet is Terron Wright of MemphisI they have the Arkansas State Relays, meet rarely includes teams one State. Wright is the world recordI which is the only invitational-relay would read about in The Sporting holder in the 300-yard dash. He isI type meet that the Irish have won in News, but the quality ofcompetition expected to triple in the 200, 100,I the last two years. certainly isn't lacking. Notre Dame and 11 0-meter high hurdles.
I bested a number of good teams last I Well, sort of won. They tied with year, and the Irish will have an even I the host Indians with 85 points a tougher time this year. "I think the top three choices for 
piece. They did get to bring home athlete of the meet are Wright, Lee, the four-foot trophy, though, which One team that will be present and and Aragon," comments Piane. now sits in Coach joe Piane's win­familar to the squad is Southern Il­The Irish track team travels to Arkansas this weekendfor an im­dow in his office at the ACC. linois. The Salukis were present at Aragon will continue his seige on portant meet. See story at right. 
~----------------~ 
the Illini Classic during the indoor the Notre Dame record books. Last After sweeping by a field of season, the meet where Chuck weekend, he broke the outdoor mile predominantly mediocre teams in Aragon became a legend. David Lee record with a 4:01.2 and this the Notre Dame Invitational and a was named the outstanding runner weekend could become the first
I I 
lackluster performance at a three­ofthat meet and the team eventually Irish runner to break four minutes in way meet at Illinois, the Irish are became the Missouri Valley Con­the outdoor mile. The senior co­
I :a-d.~.,~ I 
ready to start the real track season. ference champions. captain has already turned the trickI rOvv I indoors. SIU's Schulz should pushI ~ I "This will be our first real test of Lee holds a personal best of 49.2 Aragon, and the track is groomed 
the season," says Piane. "We in­in the 400 intermediate hurdles. The well enough that another leafcan be tended to use those first couple of qualifying time for the NCAA Cham-added to Aragon's laurel wreath.
I is now accepting applications I I for bartenders for the II 1981-82 school year. I • Scoreboard
I Please apply in person I 
Stepan 3 5:15-Muff divers v. 4 Jerks & a Squirtcontinuedfrom page 11 4:00-We'd Rather Be Swimming v. Dr. J & the 6:00-T R. Douche & the Rubber Receptacles v. Penetration Professionals The Jackson 5
I I 
4:45 -Athletes Out of Action v. S. Judy & the t>ookstore 9 

Rising Sun 
3:00 -Jrm Pmk & the Blues v. Killer Tomatoes 5:30-Walt Garrison & the 4 Dips v. Ch1p1gula & 
3:45-Miff Diver& the Beavers v. Sly & the Family 
~----------------· 
PINOCCHIO'S PIZZA PARLOR 
8-1 Opm $1 .50 pitchers of beer 
and 
emmons 

$.30 mugs... every night of the week 
,-~--------------------1 
I $.50 OFF SMALL PIZZA I 
~~:~}~{~] 
* ** 

TOMORROW! 
7:30PM Notre Dame A.C.C. 
admission: $7.00 (lower arena) $6.00 (bleachers) $2.00 discount youths (16 & under) & senior citizens 
on sale: Notre Dame ACC M·Sa 9-5 Robertson's (South Bend& Concord Mall) St. Joseph Bank 1st Bank Elkhart Truth 
N D ;smc Students & StaH J2 oH 
the DeBauchers 
v· 

6:30-S. Judy & the Electric Personalitres v. The 
4:30-lnMemoryofBrgDogv ... Graves 
T. P."• 

5:15-Sir Cumcts1on & the 4 Skms v. J. Arthur & Stepan 3 the Traveling Hose Bags
Stepan 4 

4:00 -Plato & the Fantastic Forums v. Boxer
Dnbblmg Drxz over Pooch. Gnooch & his .. by 13 6:00 -Judy's Jurors v. CF 
Rebellron

Flight over Crush, Kill. Destroy by 18 6.45-Grmme Hell v. Born to Run 
4:45-Slaughterhouse 5 v. Rubber Biscuits
S. Judy. Dan Sills .. over Altered Holvars & the Ad­Bookstore 10 
5:30-801 St Louis St. Burnouls v. Miracle on
dis KtdS by 11 3:00-The Open Facers v Angela Cartwnght & 
Court the S<;andal Quartette by 15 3:45-Capt. Muff & the Seamen v. Trgers 
Puberty and the Newcomers over Rita Jenrette & the Robot Refugees 
6:30 -Takee-Outee & the Weasel Bleeders v. 
Stepan 4 Sean's Celta Express Rev1s1ted 4:30-Atomrc Drops v. 1st Round Bye Rapture and Rebounds over Dorothy Stratten & 5:15-Spots Yardap"s v S. Judy·s Electnc Co.
Stepan 5 the In-Your-Face Kids by 10 6:30 -J. C & the Apostles v Put rt rn the Hole 6:45 -Lennon & Chapman Smg Hrt Me Wrth Your 
Stepan 6 6:30-69er5v Rock Heads 

The Inter-Ferons over GOB by 17 B Test Shol v T B Express 
1st Round Losers over Penetrators by 7 Lyons 11 Sweat Glands over Archard Head & the Bearded Stepan 7 3:00-The Squrdleys v 5 S Carolma·s Lookmg 
6:30 -Vaselrne Alley v. Quick Shot & !he Em· for..
Clams by t2 Stepan 5 barrassmg Stams 3:45 -fhe Doob,es ., Fabulous Furry Fr~ak 
Tequila White Ltghtrng over Incredible Non-
Stepan 8 Brothers . Commital Men by 13 6:30 -Willie Classen & the Unconsc1ous 4·30-Uncle John,; Bc"d v Mymynezablank ·Back to Reality over 2 Throats. 2 Druggies & an 5:15-Yesterday·s Napkms v McNamara s Band
Shooters v F ubar 
Bookstore9

Alcoholrc by 5 Lyons 12 
4:00 -Rrco Carty. a Party. v. Cocoons Surf gers & a Thumb) by 7 Squad-3.45-Totally lr:c:;1:..-<~!."::tble v Redneck~ FatChances over Frani< LaGrotta & 4 Other Wtmps 4·30 -Cosmo Carbone' v. Ftghtrng Intellectuals Keon·s Boundry Spanners over The Hand (4 Fin­3:00-Lex fQ.IIOnts v 3ptder 
4 45-Mr Belland Has No Harr v. Str Vtc s Ex by 5 5:15-Cour!Jester:cv WeJamm1n mtheNameof
plorersll Stepan6 5:30-Srster Polanski's Pnmary Day School v the Lord A rver Crty Resrdue 
East-Coasters over Joe Ketchup & the Maxi-Pads 6:00-P Jack &the Casket Ktds v Flurd Force 
6:30 -Buster Hyman. Connte Lmgus & the.
by6 Chemes v. Head Over Heels Bookstore9 
• Bookstore 10

Doug Walsh & the High Rates over Holy Cross 
4:00-The Bald Heads v. 4 Odds & an End
Wrldcats by tO 4:45 -Oral Srx v. B. Foley. Krng of the Ugltes Sunday's GamesIn Memory of Brg Dogs over Managers Chotce & 5·30-· ToxrcShock Syndrome& the4Relyablesv. Stepan 1the Cowboy Cooktes by 11 S Judy & the ELO 3.00-Dnbblmg Dyxz v BYERockets in our Pockets over Kunta Kmte & the 6:30-Lou·s Legacy v. Let's Win One for. 3:45 -Flight v Prof Bruce & the WallamallooKabewak Krds by 4 Lyons 11 Wnst RaisersSid & the Seamen over Tncker and the 4 Doobers 4.00-S. Judy& the Homefnes v. WHIPT 4:30 -'S. Judy. Dan Stlls v. S B.P D Searchby 10. 

4:45-A heme Mach me v Sprout & the Clue Fm-Squad
Bookstore 10 Hammer Head & the Sharks over Tne U!'derdogs 
ders Stepan 2 5:30-St. Ed's Arson Squad v. A Touch of Class · 3:00-fjapture & Some Rebounds v. Destroyersby 2 6:30-4 Jokes & the Jock v. S. Judy & !he Electrrc 3:45-The Interferons v. No. but senously. where Atom1c Drops over 5 Guys Who Came Between 
Shocks are...
Brooke Shtelds & Her Calvm Klems by 7 Lyons 12 4:30 -1st Round Losers v. CeltsDrs. of Bnck over Stale Steve and the 4 Locks. 24· 4:00-Good 01' Boys v. 4 Skins & a Jew Stepan 322(0T) 4:45-Spoofhounds v. Grotn Pulls !I 3:00 -Sweat Glands v. USJ. Klerne & the Forced Entnes over Ouasr-Moto & 5:30-Fame less Outcasts v. Boomers Bombers 3:45-Richard Pryor v. C.D.S.

the Belle-Bangers by 4 6:30-Gentol Express v Wrecked ·em as Whole 4:30-Puberty & the Newcomers v. Bruno & theLyons11 Natural Love Juices...

Good Ole Boys over Herkimer & the Schwantes by Stepan""
14 

3:00 -·East Coasters v Bouncrng BongsUncle John's Band over Skywalkers by 11 3:45 -Roemer's Regtna Raceway... v Luc1ousFr. Rrehle"s Cheap Crgars over Kntghts of Tomorrow's Games Linda & the F1remen's Hoses Roundball by 16 Stepan 1 4.30-Razor backs v. Take Thrs Ball & Shove It Legalized Abortron & the Coathanger Kids over 3:00 -Mr. T & Bootsie v. There Once Was A Bookstore9Sadisfaction by 8 Team.. 
3:45-Defending Meyers v. WildcatsLyons12 3:45-Team A v The Charmutas 4:30-Hammer Head & the Sharks v. Lrve Musrc IS4 Cool Guys & Grant over Mousey's Full House by 4:30-Rams v. Clitibinguists Better..

14 5:15-Dean Roemer & the Kegless Domers v 5:15-Worst Team rn the Tournament v. W. Pace . Cosmo Carbones over Benny the Beavers .... 25-23 Morrison Schwartzer & the... 
6:00-Frve Footers v. Brooke & the Panty Shrelds (OT) 6:00-Upper Mulakan Off-campus v. Masters of 6:45-J. J.'s Team Wants to Play Gerry Faust'sAtlanta Joe... over S. Judy's Gurde to a Quality DisastQ[_ Team in the 1st Round v. The New K1ds on theBuzz by 7 Stepan2 BlockJim Ptnk & the Blues over Bookstore Bongs by 2 3:00-The Ox & the Hot-Shootmg Z-Men v. I. M. 
Bookstore 10Stiff Erectron Firm 3:45-Happy Hour v. Nebo's II

3:45-The Virtuals v. Their Wives With Whips & 
4:30-Doug Walsh & the Hrgh Rates v. The S.
Chains 

SECOND ROUND Judy Swim Team
4:30-...Youth Foundatron v. The New Mafia 
Today•a Games 5:15-Col. Lingus & the Privates v. King Kong &
5:15-Dr. Dunkenstein & the 4 Skins v. The Inner 
Stepan 1 the 4 Monkey Spankers
Thighs of Attila the Hun 

4:00-John Murphy's Slime Train v. 5C Whalers 6:00-Return nf the Nutmeggers v. Honk Haley&
6:00-The Good. the Bad, and the Ugly. and... v.
4:45·-Five Guard Ov. Chuck Connor Real Estate the Comets II
A...s in Action Riflemen 6:45 -Proud Father & the 4 Uncles v. Strap·
Stepan 3 

5:30-Sophisticados v. Lynne Daley & the Baby pamasquon & the Combat Wombats
3:00 -Big Organ and his Bouncing Balls v. 
Seal Slaughterers Lyons 11
Now.., Mark Foresman don't.. 6:30-Dickie S... ·s All-Stars v. Capt. Vaseline & 3:45-The 69 Mets. Etc. v. The Master Gees 
3:45-Wiggly Worms v. Pontius Prlate & the Nail­
the Slippery Strokes 4.30-The Afterbirths v. The Brick layers
beaters Stepan 2 5:15-Net Prophet v. Aggravated Assault II
5:15-Baby Killers v. Jane's Train Gang4:00-Stooges v. Hoag's Monsters 6:00-Logan Leapers v. The Bemhos
6:00-Stroking lnsh v. The Buzzards 

4:45 -Charnsaw & His 4 Beavers v. S. Judy's Lyons12 Electric Company Stbpan4 4:30-LUDUS v. The Ftghting Ish 5:30-Roemer's Narc Squad v. Basketcases 3:00-Fightin" Nonvirconnji"s v. Hill"s Angels 5:15-Peter & the Penetrators v. Dana's Demons 6:30-Dribbling Beavers v. Cotton Pony Tony & 3:45 -The Celibates v. S. Judy & the Grateful 6:00-Humor at the Expense of Others v. Panama the.. Red
Dead 


~..'··;1 
• 
Sports ~l~l~r=i=e~s=;;:==================F=ri=da=yf,A=:p::ri=l1=o=,1=9=s=1=v=ag=e=11 
by Tht• Uhrm·c•r .tnd Tht• ,-l_rrfiUult'd Pre11 
It was opening day yesterday in eight major league In NUL playoffaction last night, the biggest stunner was hallparks as hast· hall began the senmd day of the I'JH I season. In Edmonton's second win in as many nights against mighty Montreal in Wrigley Field, the Mets heat the Cubs, 2-0. Gary Carta's RBI single in The Forum, this time by 3-1. The Oilers now own a commanding 2-0 
the ninth lifted Montreal to a 6-'5 win over host Pittsburgh. Twenty­edge over the Canadit:ns in the best-of-five series. In other action, year-old rookie Fernando Valenzuela gavt.· up only fiw hits in his first Minnesota won its second game in Boston Garden in its 14-year his­career start as Los Angeles shut out visiting Houston, 2-0. In San Fran­
tory (its first win was on Wednesday), 9-6, to go up 2-0 on the Bruins. cisco, ";4,'i20 watcht.·d the Giants lose to San I>it'go, 4-I. in 12 innings. The New York Islanders, Philadelphia, Calgary and Buffalo were all In tht· Amnican Lt.·ague, tht· Yankees. thanks to a Bobby Murcer pinch­easy winners to take 2·0 leads in their series over Toronto. Quebec, 
hit grand slam, heat Texas, 10-3, to the delight of';'5,123. Cy Young Chicago and Vancouver, respectively. Pittsburgh upset St Louis, 6-4, runnn-up Mike Norris disappointed 42,6'5H Minnesota fans as he in the Checkt.·rdome to t.•ven their series at 1-1. And in a late contest, pitched a six-hitter to lead Oakland to a '5-1 win. Richie Hebner's 
Los Angeles heat tht• New York Rangers. S-4, in a penalty-filled contest thn.T-run homer led host Iktroit to a 6-2 win over Toronto. In a late 
to go up 2-0. -AP game, California bested Seattle, 6-2, in the Kingdome.-AP 
IDBOOKSTOREfl 
Yellerd•y'a Ruun• Step•n 1 Rams over Iron Ctly Alhlellc Club by 6 
Youth Foundalton over Claude Balls & lhe 4 SkinS by 5 Wiggly Worms over Thai's Rtghl. Wez Baaad by 7 4 Jokes & lhe Jock over The Oflendors by 15 
Slep•n 2 Btg Organ over We May Be Small. Bul We Play Like Joe Kleme by 8 F1ghtmg Monv~rconn)l s over Pete Boak Boesun lor UMOC by 18 The Celibates over Vantlla Blunders by 9 
R Pryor & !he Have a Coke Free base Players over The Dtr!y Harrys by 7 
See SCOREBOARD, paMe 10 

Ail r·l.isslf1r•d .Jtl. In••!>' h,.. rt•t etvfHI t,., 4 45 p m rwn •1d'r''\ pr l• ''· 1h~ ••;<;l,~' 111 wllt1·h nw ttl·. run Tlu-1 Obsan.ttt .:f~tre wdi cu 1 Ppl c'l' ~~~·P15 Mond,t\ ti'1rP•ILJh Frtd.•\ 1000,1 n1 10!) 00 p m A•ltlrlSSih··~, · ust hl' ptt•·p.tll1 t•t:tler 11 JH'I!tOn t.r ttln ••• gtl t11~ m 11 d  
NOTICES USED & OUT·OF-PAINT BOOKS bough!. sold. searched ERASMUS BOOKS Tues·Sunday. 12·6 1027 E Wayne (one block south ol Eddy· Jefferson m!ersec!tOn) Interested m tearntng how to help ne•ghborhoods help themselves? ACORN offers summer tnternshjps for persons mterested rn sacral change ACORN rep wtll be '" Volunteer Servtces Olttce. 1 5 Lafortune on Frtday. AprtiiO lrom 4 00 til 5 00 TYPING .. Only $ 65 a page Call Dan. 272·5549 OVERSEAS JOBS · Summer-year round Europe. S Amer. Australia. As1a All fields $500·$1200 monthly S1gh!seemg Free mlo Wrt!e IJC. Box 52·1N4. Corona Del Mar. Ca 92625 TYPING DONE IN MY HOME UNIV PARK MALL AREA 277-3085 The Jazz Fes!IVal•s Back ..Oon I Mtss II· Aprtl 10& It BASEBALL MITTS AELACED Call Greg at 1740 INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS RINGS $20·$85 OR MORE WE MAKE HOUSE CALLS 255-2402 All !hose mterested m buymg BOSTON CLUB shtr!s can caiiJtm Gtblin at 1528 The cost 1s $8 and all SIZes are avatlable ElectiOns tor BOSTON CLUB ot!•ces lor 1981·1982 w•ll be held next Mon· day, Apn! 13th. a! 8 30 tn the Lalortune Ltllle Theater If you are 1nterested m gel!•ng Involved. you must a!!end RESIST THE DRAFTIIII For more tn· lormallon call TK at 3311 TYPING. MODEST RATES. 233·9491 [IosT;FouNDJ LOST· SMC CLASS RING BLUE STONE ENGRAVED S.S 83 CALL 284·5329 I lost my room keys m an mtoxrcated moment I don·! know exactly where I los! !hem. but I bel1eve 1! to be on Green f•eld !! you lind a set o! keys w•lh 1008 on !hem please call Mtke !474 LOST A blue tacke! w1!h a wh1!e linmg Stepan on Sunday between 6 30 and 8 00 Return to Mark a! 305 Sonn or call 8542 LOST A green notebook con!ammg tm· por!an! btology notes Return to Mark et 305 Sorm or call 8542 REWARD Gtmme a break LOST BLACK BINDER WITH N 0 SEAL ON COVER CONTAINING MUSIC FOR GLEE CLUB .. VEAY IMPOA­TANTII! IF FOUND PLEASE CALL KEVIN AT x 1022 or x2253 FOUND A BLUE SWEATJACKET AT STEPAN ON FRIDAY NIGHT CALL 8769 LOST A brown clutch purse at Alumni· McCandless Formal on Saturday, Apnl 4 II found, please call Marcta at x3850 LOST PAIR OF PRESCRIPTION GLASSES · TORTC'ISE FRAMES IN YELLOW CASE PLEASE CALL IF FOUND · FRANCIE 277-8760 LOST BASKETBALL BEHIND BOOKSTORE TUESDAY. APRIL 7. AF· TEA 5.30 PM CALL PIERRE 3217 FOUND SMALL CHANGE PURSE ON SOUTH QUAD CALL MATT AT 232· 0921 TO IDENTIFY FOR RENT FOR RENT UGLY DUCKLING RENT· A·CAA FROM $7 95 A DAY AND 7 CfNTS A MILE PHONE 259-UGL Y FOR RESERVATIONS  AVAILABLE NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2 FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES. NEAR NO. LEASE, DEPOSIT. 234-2626 AVAILABLE SUMMER AND NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 1 AND 3 BEDROOM APARTMENTS 234·2626 Furmshed 3·4 bedroom house lor sum· mer. $200-m!h 233-3552. Houses tor rent summer and neKI school year Gd. cond.. close to campus. turn. Call 287·5361 alter 6 p.m. HOUSE FOR RENT GREAT HOUSE FOR STUDENTS NEAR CAMPUS. NO FUSS FROM NEIGHBORS. GOOD CONDITION, GREAT FOR 5 GUYS 1116 N ST PETER CALL 232-1696 AFTER 10pm SUMMER SUBLET Bedroom Townhouse. Completely Funtshed Including washer& dryer, pool Rent Ne­gotiable, Call277·8 t 58 Large fiVe bedroom house. lurntshed. on Notre Dame Ave. Call 272 8870 WANTED Needed A1de to Washmgton D.C lor Easter Can leave Thurs A.M or Wed. P. M Call Mary Julie. 4 I -4376 Desperate tor nde I NEED 2 GRADUATION TIX $$WILL PAY$$ CALL JOHN AT 18460R 1787 NEEO AIDE to Miami-Ft. Lauderdale or almost anywhere else In Florida AFTER GRADUATION. Call John Higgins at 8553 or 1715 and leave a message. Need rtde to Purdue lor Easter Can leave 9 am Thurs. Share usual Jell 3053. Need nde !o Phtladelphta tor Easter Can leave Wed ntgh! and return on Tues. Call Kathy· 1366 STUDENT MUSICAL TALENT WANTED TO PERFORM AT IRISH COUNTRY APPLY IN PEASONOACALL232·01 11 Need rtders to Phtlly Leavmg Tues. Apnl 14 8 OOpm Call 4·1-4970 or 4·1· 5151 NEED AIDE TO and-or FROM Oecatur.llhnots OR NEAABY(Spnngheld. Btoommgton) OVER EASTER BREAK. WILL SHARE DAIVING.EXPENSES.ETC. CALL PAT .. ·4430 (POSSIBLE DROP-OFF ON WAY TO S!. LOUIS) Needed Atde to St. Louts lor Easter. Can Leave lues PM or Wed AM Wtll Provide the unusual plus gas call Aeme!!e 41·5732 or Mary 41-5729. SOUTHERN CAL STUOENTS· A baggage !ruck Will be leavmg NO to Southern Cal Call Pal 234-0515 NEED AIDE TO PHILADELPHIA AREA OVER BREAK CAN LEAVE MONDAY AT NO<'N CALL BRIAN 1847 Need nde 10 Phtladelph•a tor Easter Can leave on Wednesday Please call Maureen at 41·5791! NEED RIDE TO ANN ARBOR Ml FOR EASTER WILL SHARE EXPENSE CALL 3048 I need a nde to IOWA Wed. Apnl 15 or Thur. Apnl16 Call Mark 1475 RIDERS WANTED TO WASH AREA FOR EASTER call Kevtn 3282 I'm g01ng to Rocklord. lllinots on Eas· tar Sunday Need a nde? Wtll be gone tus! tor !he day Call4·1·5792 NEED RIDERS TO CHAMPAIGN, ILL AREA FOR EASTER BREAK CALL MARTHA 4·1·5151 To buy used 10 speed btke 27 inch, good cond1!10n Call Jtm 3272 Need nde to Massachusetts area for Easter. Call Mtke · 1780. A!!en!ton NO males. Need a wife? I need a fiance by the 13th .. Apply In per­...,,.. tJr ......... lo ANN FEALIC-1078 Pre-law apphcAo!s preferred  Need nde to Northern Jersey. NYC area tor Easter W1ll share usual Call Don a! 6718. Can leave Tuesday AIDE NEEDED TO PITTSBURG AREA OR ANY PLACE CLOSE 2 PEOPLE CALL 277·8280 I NEED RIDERS TO SOUTH CAROLINA OVER EASTER BREAK WILL BE WIL· LING TO TAKE RIDERS GOING TO HIL· TON HEAD II mteres!ed call BRENDAN at 8440 Atde to TOLEDO Can leave TUES MIKE 3623. NEED RIDE TO BOSTON AREA FOR EASTER BREAK CAN LEAVE WED AT NOON WILL SHARE DRIVING AND $$$. CALL STEVE AT 8630 HELPII really need a ride to TOLEDO, or even out 90 east Will share every­thing. Can leave TUES. NOON. MIKE 3623. Myrtle Beach is wa1!1ng lor me FOR SALE component stereo for may purchase bob 232·0982 FOR SALE: 1978 WHITE CAMARO WITH RED RACING STRIPE GREAT CONDITION LOADED LOW MILEAGE WILL SELL CHEAP CALL232·1696 MUST SELL Tl·59 PAOGAAMABLE CALCULATOR WITH PAINTER AND FULL ACCESSORIES $400 OR BEST OFFER CALL PAT 8937 FOR SALE BAR BROWN. BUlL T FOR CORNEA. MUST SEE BEST OFFER · CALL 233·2865 TICKETS I need 3 (!hal's three) gradua!ton !tck· ets. (Yes, folks, II'S s!ar!tng already.)l! you can help me, call Scoop al 1772. Need EXTRA GRADUATION TIX badly· PLEASE call Mary Pal a! 8091 NEED 2 GRADUATION TICKETS CALL. Tom 234-1367 NEEDED MANY TICKETS FOR GAADA· TION CALL TIM AT 1650 OR 1868 Desperately need to buy grad !tx Please call Kathy at 1287 PERSONALD Jell Jailers IS so ugly. he knows 11! GOODE IS BAD GOODE IS BAD GOODE IS BAD Jtm Goode lor UMOC Bless him Father, tor he has sinned He must have ugly doesn't come cheap JIM GOODE lor UMOC. PRO BURKE PRO BURKE HE MAKES THE CHILDREN CAY I III SAVE THOSE PENNIES FOR UMOC PRO, YOU'RE AN UGLY MAN III NEED RIDE TO PHILADELPHIA FOR EASTER!! CAN LEAVE THURSDAY PLEASE CALL MAUREEN AT 41-5791 Go to lheCollegia!e Jazz Fes!IVat .. Aprtl 10& 11 HAIR BRAIDING lor all occasions 291· 8215. DearSuzy, What be !fer btr!hday present could you receive !han me? Happy Btr!hday to my leading lady. Love you. Tommy INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS MARKETPLACE Today in Lafortune Dtck Allison, Would you please lake ott your sweater? Its gelling warm ou!Sidell  SOPHOMORES BUY CLASS OF 83T· SHIRTS' SOLD BY DORM REPS AND AT THE DUNES THIS SATURDAY Hey US. Huslle up and GO FOR !TI (You too Mator B.l) Ill be cheermg tor you. GOODLUCKII Love. Babycakes To all you bleedmg-hear! liberals who would rather have a battalion of Sovtet troops rnarchmg down Matn St . U SA than send arms to a beleaguered country, to all those who prefer Vodka to Mtchelob, to all those who are prepared to name lhmr children N11<11a and Katerma rather than John and Mary: and hnally to all those who don'! wan! Ronald Reagan tpo speak at com· mencement -go home early so your sell-ngh!eous minds won't be cor· rup!ed and count your btessmgs Uncle Sam Summer Aestden! Camp Stall needed Mtd-June to early August. All postlions open: Counselors. Water-front, Nurse. Cook. Contact: Gtrl Scouts of Singtng Sands, Inc .. 15985 Stale Road 23, Gran­ger.ln. 46530 or call (219)277·0900 Need nde to MILWAUKEE Thursday before Easter lor break Can share ex· penses. Call Detrdre a! 8013. Call late tf you can't reach me any other trme LIVE MUSIC AT IRISH COUNTRY. FRIDAY· EDDY ST KNIGHTS LIVE MUSIC AT IRISH COUNTRY SATURDAY-CRYSTAL JOS-PF Thanks tor every!htng to my VERY BEST FRIEND I PRINCESS CJF-HSD CJF-HSD CJF·HSD CJF-HSD CJF-HSD CJF·HSD CJF-HSD CJF-HSO COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL HIGH SCHOOL DIVISION Saturday, Apnlll: 8:30-1 1·30 AM 2 :00·3 :30 PM Jazz cllntc a! 1:00PM by How•e Smtih Clay Htgh School (north on Juntper Rd.) FRFF AOMISS!ONI! BRIDGET'S SPRING SPECIALS THURSDAY MOLSONS 75c FRIDAY GIN AND TONICS 75c SATURDAY DOGS AND DRAFTS 3· $1.00 COME TO BRIDGET'S FOR HAPPY HOUR TOO HOW 'BOUT THAT LUMBERJACK LOOK? FRANK CEITA FOR UMOC! To MARY MARGARET SCHMID Happy 19th Btr!hday Ktddo..­Have a hell ot a good !1me. I'll be !htnkmg about ya Love, Nancy B HEY N.D.! P.W. HAS FOODSALES. OPEN ~12 SUN-THURS. ~11 FRI· SAT. EVERYONE WELCOME. TUTOR NEEDED: Baste Math tor an adult Contact Volunteer Serv1ces, 7308 That Incredible stnger John Sweeney will be performing on stage at Annan­berg Auditorium Friday at 8 00 pm Aecepllon to follow m the Monogram Room John Sweeney will be singtng on stage tn !he acous!tcally perlect Annenberg Auditorium a! Snt!e Museum Fnday ntgh! at 8 pm. Come and be awed by this incredible performance Especial· ly all Darby ties Atde Needed to !he Lehigh Valley or Anywhere tn Eastern Pa. lor Easter Can leave Wednesday At!ernoon. 4· 15. please call MIKE a! 1866 SECRET PAL YOUR LETTER CAME TOO LATE CALL AGAIN · AAH HEY SOPHOMORESII DUNES TRIP THIS SATURDAY.. 55 BUS TICKETS WILL BE SOLD THURS & FRI. 6· 7PM IN LAFORTUNE OR GET A CARLOAD TOGETHER AND COME ON OUTI BRING FOOD. FRISBEES, ETC. BE Ttii::REII SOPHOMORES .. Anyone interested tn bemg a member of the Jun1or Advtsory Council tor !hetr dorm can p1ck up an appltca!ion a! !he Student Aclivl!les Otftce. ts! lloor of LaFortune lrom Wednesday, Apnl 8 to Wednesday. April 15 BRIDGET'S SPECIAL DURING SPRING COME BY AND CHECK OUT THE DAI· LY SPECIALS HAPPY HOUR 3-7 EVERYDAY  DearChns. HEY ELLIS. I hope you have a lan!as!tc btr!hday! YOU RE AN UGLY MAN I!!! YOU KNOW Love. THOSE GIRLS THAT BOAAOWEO Cleo YOUR CLOTHES THEY DON T WANT P.S. I hear werep1res have become ex· TO BAING THEM BACK BECAUSE tinct Is lhts \rue? THEY DON T WANT TO SEE YOUR FACE III FOR PHOTOGRAPHERS WHO APPLIED FOR A POSITION ON NEXT BR!OGETS DAILY SPECIALS YEAR'S OBSERVER STAFF. !he dect· ALL YOU SMC WINE DRINKERS BEs1on w1ll be announced m the personal THEREcolumn Tuesday or Wednesday at!er 75C WINE 3·7 EVERYDAY Easter break AI that Itme both stall and ALL YOU NO BEER DRINKERS alternate photographers w111 be an· 25C OFF ALL BEER EVERYDAY 3·7nounced. and a t1me Will be grven for applicants to prck up therr appllc..:at1ons We h'!ve room for two nders to and photographs. Cleveland area Colllll2179 Tim I never mrss· Drxon rs a pnme HOW MANY PEOPLE 00 YOU KNOWcand1date tor !he Hoostor Award. AI· WHO MAKE THE CHILDREN CF!Y? though Ttm played 1n only one game. JUST ONE he managed to m1ss every one of h1s 20 PRO BURKE FOR UMOC shots. N1ce shoo!tng, Ttml THE UGLIEST MAN ON CAMPUS!!!! VOTE PRO JUNIORS· SENIORS TO BE Applications now avatlable tor t 981·82 GIRLS, SEE TOM 0 BIEN TONIGHT ATSantor Advtsory Counc•l in Student Ac· THE PARTY IN PANGBORN'S SOCIAL !IVt!tes Olltce in Lafortune Apply by SPACEApnl14 ATTENTION SMC WOMEN S CHOIR ATTENTION ALL NO MALES Mon1ca. Janel. and Ann Mane aren tII you !htnk !hal all NO gtrls are Ia! enrl the only ones that can create harmonyugly. !hen prove 1!1 Vote MARY LYNN w1!h a Wabash Man NO ts dead!GARGAS tor UMOCIII To see her IS A Veteran enough to voml!ll!l Dorothy.NO AND SMC WOMEN UNITE 1111 Best of luck !ontgh! You know !halDon't tel another guy w1n UMOC .. -11 s we II all be out there pullrng for you!our turn now!!ll Vole MARY LYNN YOU CAN DO IT OORSK IIGAAGAS tor UMOCIII! Love. your roommates and fnends on 3rd floorBUNNY & TINA, You know who I am. when do I ftnd out I need a rtde to TOLEDO on TUES. W111who you are? You know where to !md share. Mtke 3623 me JOHN ATTENTION LONG ISLAND CLUB MEMBERS MEETING ON TUESDAYTo Paula. Beth, and Enn Why dtd the APRIL 14 AT 630 PM IN LAFORTUNE egg hatch on your srde of the road? So LITTLE THEATRE CONCERNING OF·she could become a SMC chtck! Domp• FICEA ELECTIONS. BAGGAGE TRUCK tokes no! allowed I TOC RESERVATIONS AND BUS GOING HOME FOR THE SUMMERLYONS SOCCER STAAS CON· GRATULATIONS ON THE VICTORY TEO CONNOROVER B·P LET'S MAKE IT ANOTHER TEO CONNORHIGH FIVE" VICTORY OVER BADIN TEO CONNORON SUNOAYIIIII!III 111!111111 GOOD LUCK TO MY FAVORITETHERE ONCE WAS A MAN NAMED BO FUTURE CHEERLEADER !I!' DON T WHO'S FACE HE COULD NEVER DROP ANYONE ON YOUR HEAD!!!!SHOW FROM YOUR LOVING SISTER ANDHE WAS SO GROSS MENTOR II!! THAT THE GIRLS WOULON T GET CLOSE HELPI!!I I NEED A RIDE TO THESO ANIMAL HUNTING HE 010 GO I! II KANSAS CITY AREA FOR EASTERBO ELLIS FOR UMOC BREAK!III WILL SHARE EXPENSES AND INTERESTING CONVERSATION!C-MONSTEAS, PLEASE CALL PEG .. ·1288!he though! tor !he day IS to manage your hfe ltke you would a busmess. be Moose··amecrls a messy·wessysly and sneakylll PPPPPPPP(wha! s Musamec1-ugly moose on campusthat 1 ?) JACKIE HEARFELDT HI. HONI"FOR AN UGLY FACE LOOK AT PRO THANKS FOR BEING SUCH A GOODBURKE. THE UGLIEST THING ON PAE·MED FA!ENDIII TAKE CARE AL·CAMPUS JUST WHEN YOU THOUGHT WAYS AND DO GOOD IN YOUR INIT WAS SAFE TO WALK THE QUAD IN YOUR CREW RACES AND ACADEMICPEACE.. YOU SAW PRO PRO BURKE ENDEAVERS(SP?) FROM YOU KNOW FORUMOC!I!I WHO I Jim Mon!agano lor UMIG anyone wtth any mformat1on reg.ard1ng the whereabouls.altas , or sexualNeed Insurance? Call Scott o·s In· preferences of erther Gretchen Faist orsurance Agency a good deal 428·2314 Kathleen Bneg PLEASE CALL 8701 JILLOMANI On Apr 13 VOTE Ktmberly Kentra .. Heather Ou1nn lor leMans 81· 82SMC and NO girls· lonely? Call Mark M . the IG of NO. 6784 Oues Who'" !hts guy. GODZ!LLA? Ans Wmner of the Tom Sh1els look·a·Dear Fr. Hesburgh, like conies!! Why are all of the bathrooms 1n La Vole TOM CLEM SHIELS lor UMOCFortune but one Women·s powder room 1n !he basement locked up Tom Shtels ts prool pos1!1Ve !hat theysecurely every ntgh! even though you really don 1 shoot HORSES I know people are worktng 1n the Ob· server office all ntgh! on !he !htrd Oues Why are Ca!ltsh·a·tump m?floor? Do you deny the right of males 1n ANs Tom Shtels went-a-sw1m rnlLaFortune to go to the bathroom late at Vole TOM CLEM SHIELS tor UMOCntgh!? Do you deny the right ollr'Tlales to a pnvate place to relj ,,.. !'!em· Oues Why do blonds have more tun?selves? Or IS leavmg !he only b8!o oo m Ans Nancy Zaczek 11 a brune!l!hat can be seen from the ou!stde 'P" Vole NANCY ZACZEK lor UWOCat ntgh! tor our sale!y and we!' beorg? Or do you teet !hal we as men 1.nd Nancy Zaczek plus Bo Derek equal10!women are mature enough t lhare a Vole NANCV ZACZEK lor UWOCbathroom lor four hours duru ... parte· tals? Or do you even know !hiS 111ua· PLEASE LOCK YOUR DOORS! lion OX ISIS? Nancy Zaczek wtll be on campusDo you even care? !ontghtlI do. as do other Obserwmles who Vote NANCY ZACZEK lor UWOCmust climb lour !lights o1 s\atrs 1n the dead of night to use the one bathroom HEY MCCLURE. PAINT YOURlet! to us DOORIIsmcerelv yours. a t~red Observente Happy Btr!hday Andy Gnmesll MarciA& TomAUGUSTA RESIDENTS VOTE FOR SUE BRENNWALD Need nde to and from Milwaukee lorSOCIAL COMMISSIONER Easter break. Call Kaue at 44~1.MONDAY, APRIL 13  

r· ./ 
' 
I 
I
111!1' 
----~-----------­
Friday, April10, 1981 -page 12 
~ Svorts 
First full scrhntnage set for Saturday 
By FRANK LaGROTTA "It's always good to remember Sports Writer that nothing is definite this early." Meyers, however, is very optimis­
Head coach Gerry Faust and his tic about the progress of the staff will get their first real look at defensive line. the 1981 Fighting Irish football team "We started offwith four linemen in a controlled scrimmage set for but we have a 3-4 look," he explains. tomorrow afternoon at 1:30 p.m. in "What we want though is those four the stadium. Notre Dame-Saint big men dominating the line of Mary's students will be admitted to scrimmage." the scrimmage with an ID card. Meyers points out the experience 
"What we'll be looking for tomor­and leadership of Joe Gramke and row is an idea ofhow far we've come Pat Kramer as very helpful and adds this spring and how far we have to that freshman Tim Marshall has go," points out defensive line coach "shown great potential but still Bill Meyers. "Take my own case, for needs experience and discipline instance. Even though I've been at before he is a consistent performer. Notre Dame three years, this is my "Tomorrow's scrimmage will first as coach of the defensive line probably be more drive and play­and, consequently. I really do not oriented," says Meyers. "What we'll have a great perception of our most likely do is run series of 10-to­strengths and weaknesses yet. A 12-play drives. We really have only scrimmage like the one we've nine or ten healthy defensive scheduleu for tomorrow will really linemen right now. Certainly not help us out." enough for a full four-quarter 
scrimmage." 

Spring Football'81 Offensively, the quarterback race is as tight as ever with four conten­ders running practically neck-and­neck. Offensive coordinator Tom 
Although there have been rumors Lichtenberg has indicated that fresh­By SKIP DESJARDIN There were, once again, a couple defeated, bedecked in KISS-style fa­involving personnel changes and man Blair Kiel is presently listed and FRANK LaGROTTA ofovertime matches. The Doctors of cial paint, featured another of the players switching positions, number one on the depth chart and Sports Writers Brick won their game, but things day's coldest shooters. Jeff Costau linebacker coach George Kelly that he will start the scrimmage with weren't pretty. Apparently, most of missed all 13 of his shots, although
As hard to believe as it may be, the

points out that there are "no real dif­the first squad tomorrow. the Doctors are looking to· set up he was a force on the boards. first round of Bookstore X is over.
ferences at this point." their practice in Indiana, because Bookstore Briefs Simari 
"What we'fe trying to avoid is One-third of the games to be played three of them tried to get into the described the action so far as "What we try to do in scrimmages having anyone think that there is a in this year's tournament have been 
running for the Hoosier award. Rick "hunky-dory, for the most part". He like this is look for things that need distinct difference between who is played already and, starting today, Lattimer, the team's leading scorer 
did express some concern for one work," Kelly says. "Right now we're number one, two and three," ex­the seeded teams that received byes in a 24-22 overtime win over Stale occurrence, however. It seems that 
missing Bob Crable (shoulder in­plains Lichtenberg. "Blair is going to will begin to see action. 
Steve..., was 7-27 from the field, a number of people have taken to jury) at linebacker so we're basically start tomorrow but all four quarter­Players in yesterday's games 
taking more shots than any other tackling players o~ a breakaway, and going with four guys on the first backs (Tim Koegel, Scott Grooms enjoyed some of the finest weather Doctor. Joe Wazneak and Rick taking the intentional foul. 
team; Rick Naylor, Mark Zavagnin, and Greg Knafelc along with Kiel) of the tournament thus far, as warm Franza didn't take as many shots, but seen quite a bit of fast­
"We've will get plenty ofwork.
Joe Rudzinski and Bob. We've ex­temperatures and a minimal amount their percentages weren't much bet­break tackling," Simari said, "and we perimented with Naylor inside and "There is just not that much dif­of wind abounded. In the words of 
ter. While Lattimer hit 25.3 percent just can't tolerate it. We don't want Zavagnin on the other side to see ference right now to allow us to Bookstore Commissioner Rob of his shots, W azneak and Franza 
Retirement near? 
to see anyone hurt." He explainedwhat things look like. make those distinctions." Simari, "everything was copascetic." were both 5-of-18, for a slightly bet­that tackling falls under Rule IV for ter 27.7 percent. unsportsmanlike conduct. "The Dave Murphy had a better shoot­scorekeepers have the power to ing day. He hit 14 of his 29 shots to eject players, and teams, from the lead Cosmo... over Benny... in a 25-tournament," Simari says. "From 23 overtime game. here on in, they will throw a team In all fairness, there were perfor­out of the tournament if they insist
joyce discussesfinances 
mances far worse than those of the on tackling players on a breakaway. Doctors of Brick. Mike Hunkler was Ifwe don't put a stop to this, there is 0-10 as his team, Joe Ketchup... going to be a serious injury."
Editor's note: This is the third ofa "Our decision to increase the 
women's athletic scholarships at a 

dropped a six point decision to the The lines on the Bookstore courts
three-partfeature on Fr. EdmundP. funds spent on women's athletics is 
cost of S700,000? 

East Coasters. John Leonard paced are scheduled for a new paint job.
joyce, Executive Vice-President of not just because of the law," begins 
"Right now I am very pleased with 

the Coasters with a 12-for-28 after­When the courts were repaved, new
the University of Notre Dame and Joyce, "but because it's the right 
the state of our athletic program," 

noon. lines were painted, and they are in
Chairman of the Faculty Board in thing to do." 
Joyce adds. ''There is very little I 

Ed White plays for That's Right, the wrong places. The courts are too
Control ofAthletics. The end result of last year's furor 
would change. I think a sound 

Weeze Baaad, and he was. Ed didn't wide and too long. As soon as thewas a moderate cutback in hockey 
program is therapeutic and very 

hit any of his 13 shots, as the team wind dies down enough, a correc­By FRANK LaGROTTA scholarships, a substantial increase 
helpful to our student body. 

lost to the Wiggly Worms, 21-14. tion will be made.
and CRAIG CHVAL in the amount of money spent on 
"The fact remains that everything 

Tim Murphy ofthe Worms was hot, Associate Commissioner Mary
Sports Writers women's basketball and the creation 
we do comes down to having the 

as his 14 points, coming on 29 shots, Beth Sterling reminds teams that,of two new varsity sports -men's 
money to do it."
f 

led the Wigglers. under a new rule, they must supply a
"By its very structure, the Faculty lacrosse and women's volleyball 
Joyce cites the clamor over Notre 

Fans at the Stepan courts saw what sixth person for each game. ThatBoard in Control ofAthleticsbas no Prior to those changes, it had been Dame hockey as a good for
case was probably the best team to play person will aid the scorekeeper in

real authority." widely rumored that Notre Dame 
excluding students from the 

in the tournament thus far. Chris keeping statistics. She also urgedFr. Edmund P.joyce was contemplating a lawsuit to chal­
decision-making process. While the 

Stone led 4 Jokes & a Jock to a 15 teams to adhere to the rule regard­lenge the Title IX regulations, which 
future of the program was still un­

point win over the Offenders. Stone ing jersey colors. The higher team
As chairm~n of the board, Joyce require equal per capita spending 
decided, Notre Dame students 

was 7-9, and teammate Bill Bonde on the schedule brackets are askedshould be in :a position to know. for men's and women's athletics. 
staged meetings, signed petitions 

was 5-8 for the Jokes. The team they to wear light jerseys for all games. 
""Basically,! the Faculty Board is "Notre Dame would not have 
and even held up signs at a concerned 4ith keeping athletics in gone to court alone," says Joyce. 
nationally-televised basketball proper I!>erspective," Joyce "Nearly all universities that depend 
game, pleading with the administra­elaborates. "!t fills an1important role on football and basketball as sources tion to "Save hockey and 
minor as an influential advisory group to Fr. of revenue were upset. I still think it 
Irish face WMU
sports." However, when hockey 

Hesburgh." I is terribly unfair to private univer­season rolled around and the Joyce admits that, as chairman, his sities." 
novelty ofthe situation had worn off, suggestions/carry "a lot ofweight." Because of Notre Dame's in­
student ticket sales actually 

in doubleheader 
"However. the board does not ad­fluence, Joyce found himself in a 
decreased from the previous year. ministrate,'; he continues. "It cannot position to act as leader of the fight 
"I'm skeptical," admits Joyce. 

By TIM LARKIN 
hire and fire coaches and it has no­against Title IX regulations. "Students said they would get be­Xavier for a doubleheader also 
Sports Writer 
thing to do with areas such as "I talked to many people in Wash­hind hockey and support it at the slated for 1 p.m. budgetin~ Recommendations are ington, D.C., and tried to persuade Last season Western Michigan
box office, but as far as I know, stu­

The Fighting Irish baseball team
made to the board and it passes upon them that we were 100 percent in handed Notre Dame its only
dent ticket sales did not go up." 

them." j takes a six-game winning streak into doubleheader when the
favor ofTitle IX, but the regulations loss
Still, money is far from Joyce's on­

this afternoon's doubleheader with
The F~culty Board, in existence as written and re-written by the Broncos defeated the Irish, 9-8 and
ly concern. He deplores what he 

Western Michigan. And if Notre
since pr1-Rockne days, came under Department of Health, Education 16-12. Coming into this week's ac­
terms "wide-spread cheating" 

Dame coach Larry Gallo has his drut­
close s<:tutiny last spring when the and Welfare were illogical and in­tion, Western Michigan had a 15-8
among football and basketball 

hers, his team could clinch its I Oth 
Notre arne athleti<: department equitable," he explains. record.
programs at major universities. He 

straight victory by Saturday after­
found i selffacing some very critical "Is it reasonable that because a The Broncos, 32-22 in 1980, are
insists that Notre Dame's programs 

noon.
issues. INotre Dame to university gives 100 football members of the talented and highly
came the are completely above-board, and
I This afternoon's games with the
realization that it would have to all-scholarships, which cost nothing be­respected Mid-American Con-
that other universities could follow 

visiting Broncos begin at I p.m.
ocate agreater portion ofits athletic cause of the revenue produced by 
Notre Dame's lead. 

Tomorrow the Irish will play host to See IRISH, page 9budget to programs for women. that sport, it must also give 100 
SeeJOYCE, page 9 ·..,.a;a.;...M,iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~;;,;;.;::::.~·~::~·-.:i~:;;;;;.-;;-;~_.:_;:.:-... :-~~;,~;;:•..;,,.;;sll$1!Ss;;-i!iiii,......m;i;"i;·;;i._,i:;iftiwiiiii:iiiiiiiiii•iini:;"=·::;•.:;:.,i....~;-;_;s;...,.;;......,.,.iii!!Qi;·,;:;.,.;P<irmiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 









