
• • .Social salvation pa~e9 
----------------------~---~-­

VOL XV, NO. I 06 an independent student newspaper serving notre~ and saint mary's FRIDAY, MARCH 6, 1981 
Sparse attendance 

Apathy threatensstudent safety 
By DAVID SARPHIE program which provides loud University should ha'(e to go out and StuffReporter whistles for women in high-crime buy these products for the stu­areas. He said the program had been dents," he remarked. "It's the stu­
"Students here are basically apat­recommended to him by the City of dent's responsibility." 
hetic," Dean of Students James South Bend. Roemer commented to a less than Roemer also mentioned a mace­Roemer discussed a proposal that capacity crowd at last night's like product that is available by mail security telephones be placed In the sn·urlty seminar in LaFortune Stu­to all female students. "Mugger Slug­large parking lots along the 
dent Center. Eight students were in ger" Is advertised as "the strongest perimeter of the campus. The attendance. chemical self-defense spray ever of­purpose of these phones, Roemer 
The seminar was jointly con­fered to civilians." said, is to allow those women in ducted by Roemer, Assistant Direc­need ofan escort a means ofcontact­tor of Security Rex Rakow, and Roemer was pessimistic about ing Security. Kenney is investigating investigator Ann Schellinger. It students' attitudes toward their own the cost ofthe proposal with Indiana fo<."U!!ed on the security needs of safety. "Do I think students will buy Bell. women at the University. these products?" he said. "Honestly, . Student Senator Michael Feikes 
Roemer described Sf'Vcral I must answer 'no."' presented some security recom­programs that his office has sup­He maintained that the respon­mendations for Roemer's considera­poned for the protection ofwomen. sibility for a student's protection lies tion. Among these was a change in One of these was the WhistieSTOP with that student. "I don't think the policy that prevents men from 
driving their female companions to their dorm~ Roemer ;~greed that current 
procedures preventing this in­dividual escort by car arc pomly en­forced. However, he upheld the policy, noting that a bad precedent 

Mother charges foul play 

in son's execution 
would be set by allowing personal cars to drive on campus. Feikes also mentioned the need 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Coroner's was either unconscious or d t ead. 
for improved lighting in several 
deputies said Thursday they have Florida officials conducted two in­
area.~ of the campus. Roemer 
completed an autopsy on John vestigations and concluded those al­
agreed, saying that most ofthe light­
Spenkelink's body which was legations were unfounded. Former 
ing problems are a result of burnt­
exhumed to Investigate his mother's warden David Brienon insisted out bulbs. 
<.:harge that the convicted murderer Spenkelink was alive when he went 
Schellinger agreed that apathy is a 
was unconscious or dead when he to the chair. The Episcopal priest, 
major problem. She said that she had 
went to Florida's electric chair. the Rev. Thomas Feamster said In 
spoken to women about security
Paris, Tenn., that the executioner 
problemsaround the campus, but "it
FRIDAV::::::::::::::::::::-<:>-:::::-:::::-: ·· 
goes in one ear and out the other."
See AUTOPSY, page 3


::::=:=:::::::::::FOCUS 
The autopsy results were to be an­nounced by Coroner Thomas 
Supreme Court rejectsJudy,s stay
Noguchi at a news conference later 
Thursday. Coroner's Investigator Ma.~onJohnson said Wednesday that INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -The In­school children in April 1979. He the eastern United States, told on the petition, which asks Orr to although Spenkdink's execution oc­diana Supreme Court, for the second has refused to appeal the death Schwarszschild she hoped to talk stay the execution until Judy's case curred nearly two years ago, the time in a week Thursday, rejected a· penalty and repeatedly said he Judy out ofthe execution. is reviewed. autopsy should be conclusive. petition from a death row inmate prefers death to a life in prison. Meanwhile, the state Clemancy "We're working about 20 hours a 
"There always are problems in­seeking to halt Monday's execution The high state court said it found Commission said it would issue an day now. I think It's a morale and so­volved because of the length of the ofconvicted killer Steven T. Judy. the death penalty "to be constitu-opinion by sometime Friday on an cial obligation," said death and the emhalming and the The petition asked that the execu­tional under all of the present stan-ACLU petition to halt the clectrocu-Schwarszschlhd. condition of the body," Johnson tion be delayed until the U.S. dards of the United States Supreme tion. The petition already wa.~ Working equally as hard, but for said. "But we have done dlsinterr­Supreme Coun could review the Court," and it added, "Judy has free-rejected by Gov. Robert D. Orr, who ather purpose, Is Protect the In­ments In the past and have been able standing of Larry Williams in the ly admitted in person to this court has the final say. nocent. to determine the cause ofdeath." Judy case. that he committed all of the four ' Henry Schwarszschild, director of 
Spenkellnk was strapped into "There is no showing by Larry murders ofwhich he was convicted. the ACLU's Capital Punishment Ross Stovall, president of the: Florida's electric chair on May 29, Williams or by his attorney that said "No further petition for rehearing Project, said Thursday his organiza-group, said, "Ifthe death penalty law 1979, but his sister and an Episcopal pleading is filed on behalf of Steven has been filed and there is nothir-g tion Is considering legal remedies in isn't followed, the law itself may priest who saw the electrocution T. Judy or with Judy's consent," the funher pending before this coun on ~!!!_eco~ission refused to act become obsolete." ____ 
suspect he may have been beaten Supreme Coun ruled. the Steven T. Judy case. ---------~ · ?::.===~===== just before his death, while his mot­Judy, 24, oflndianapolls, was con­"This court now un;mimously 
Author Lmn·ey
her, Lois Spenkelink, and fundamen­victed ofraping and stranglingTerry , finds that Larry Williams has no talist preacher Warren Folks, say he L. Chasteen, 21, and her three pre-I standing in the Steven T. Judy C:::ase 

Patricia Hiler wins in District3 race 
Patricia Hiler defeated Carl). Carney in yesterday's Student Senate runoff election In District 3. Lyons resident Hiler garnered 56.7 per­cent ofthe vote ca.~t to defeat Carney In the South Quad district. 
Carney, a resident of Fisher Hall, received 40.7 percent ofthe vote, while 2.6 percent marked other names on the ballot. The district, which Includes Badin, Dillon, Fisher, Howard, Lyons, Morrissey and Pangborn had H19 voters for a 50.6 percent turnout. Election officials described the turnout as 'quite high for a runoffelection.' 
Hiler won every dorm in the district except for Fisher and Dillon, and received a remarkable 138 votes in her home dorm. Carney was strongest in Fisher, where he received I01 votes to Hiler's 22. 
Hiler will join District 1 victor Clare Padgett as the first women to be elected to the Student Senate. Padgett and Hiler, along with District 2 Senator Brian Callaghan, District 4 Senator Tom Wcithman, and Off­Campus Senator Matt Huffman will take their seats when the new Stu­dent Government is Inaugurated on April I. 
and hereby orders that the above 


updates}esus'~..,age
petition by Larry Williams be and .LI.A..A. the same is hereby stricken for lack ofstanding." Much of his readings dealt with
By DIANE DIRKERS 

The order was signed by Chief Jesus' relationship with Saint Peter,
!liewsStaff 

Justice Richard M. Givan, with the the founder of His church. Linney other four justices concurring. ponrays Peter as duU-witted and 
Indiana State Prison ,officials an­hot-tempered, while depictingJesus nouced Thursday thatJudy will hold A near-capacity crowd at last as the patient leader who Is not a news conference at the Indiana night's Sophomore Literary Festival beyond bending the rules or enjoy­
State Prison in Michigan City at 9 heard enthusiastc novelist­Ing a few of the life's little vices. 
p.m. EST Friday. playwright Romulus Linney read Linney said he wrote the work to 
Meanwhile, a visit. from Judy's fromjesus Tales, his latest published refresh his belief In humanity. "The natural mother and brother failed to work. little stories seem to be a bible ofthe convince him to change his mind jesus Tales, which Is based on folk," he explained. "They give me about the execution, a spokesman Italian and French folklore, ex­again the faith of my childhood ­for the American Civil Liberties Uni­amines the lesser-studied human faith not only in religion, but In life." on said. side of Jesus. Although for two Linney's other works include: 
Judy's natural mother and brother thousand years, disciples, Heather Valley; Slowly, By Tby visited him at the prison Monday, theologians, and laymen alike have 
Hand Unfurled; The Love Suicide at ACLU spokesman Henry recapped the life of Jesus, Linney Schofield Barracks; Democracy; Schwarszschild revealed. Judy's does so in a modern setting and Holy Ghosts; Old Man joseph and natural mother, who has changed spices his anecdotes with the cliches 
His Family; Chi/de Browne; and h!"r n:1mC' :~nt1 lfyc-~ -<nm~wh<r< In :1nc1 .'"'fct~i"-.... & ..... ...t-....t... ...........a........ r-..,P~!If>f> 





News Brie 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Polishunion leadersmaintained a strike alert in one city yesterday but warned against a strike in anotherfollowing a Krem­lin declaration on Poland regarded as the toughest since labor and economic troubles erupted in this Communist nation last summer. The Moscow communique followed a meeting ofPolish leaders with President Leonid I. Brczhnev and other Soviet officials Wednesday. The statement said the Soviets "voice their conviction that the Polish communists have both the ability and the resources to reverse the course of events, i:o liquidate the perils looming over the socialist gains ofthe nation." The unrest in Poland raised the threat last fall of' possible Soviet military intervention as troops, In addition to those already in the country, were alerted along the borders. The statement, while a hard warning, was not regarded as an ultimatum in diplomatic circles here. -AP 
Walter Cronkite leaves CBS' "Evening News" after Friday night's broadcast, with the rival networks eagerly awaiting a tug-of-war for viewers no longer bound by loyalty to the anchorman recognized as one ofthe most trusted men in America. Both ABC and NBC are mounting print and on-air campaigns promoting their own news programs. But no one would forecast an early end to CBS' 13­year reign as the No. I network in news after Dan Rather, a "60 Minutes" correspondent since 1975, replaces Cronkite on Monday night. "I don't see any immediate change," said William). Small, presi­dent ofNBC news and a former CBS news executive. "Ifit does come, it will be a matter ofmonths." The stakes are enormous, and both ABC and NBC -who have run almost neck-and-neck in second place since late in 1979 -are anxious to increase their evening news ratings at CBS' expense. A single rating point for the news can mean as much as S7 million a year in advertising income. Cronkite, who is 64, will remain with CBS news as a correspondent and anchorman for the network's new "Universe" science magazine. -AP 
Afghan rebels, crippled by shortages of weapons and food, have largely abandoned a 14-month fight to oust Soviet troops from the countryside and are concentrating instead on the major cities, a reliable source in Kabul reported yesterday. The report from the Kabul source said information reaching the Afghan capital indicates large numbers ofAfghans in some northern and far-western areas ofthe country are dying ofhunger. Food shortages are said to be especially acute in remote areas. This, combined with a persistent inability to acquire large caches of weapons with which to fight the estimated 85,000 Soviet soldiers in Afghanistan, is driving the guerril­las into the cities, the source said. The Kabul source said the food shortages have developed for two reasons: Money collected from Af­ghans and foreign countries by various groups of"Mujahidin," or Mos­lem freedom fighters, to buy food and weapons has never reached resistance groups inside the country. The Soviets are using food as a 
weapon. -AP 
From all comersofthe world, written in English and in foreign tongues, letters are flooding into the office ofGov. Robert D. Orr to plead for the life ofcondemned killer Steven T. Judy. Almost a thousand letters, postcards and telegrams have been received so far urging the new governor to commute the death sentence of the 24­year-old Indianapolis construction worker, convicted ofkilling an In­dianapolis woman and her three young children. Only one letter ­from a northern Indiana woman -supports Judy's execution, scheduled before sunrise Monday at the Indiana State Prison in Michi­gan City. Judy Honey, an administrative assistant in the governor's office, said most ofthe mail has come from members ofAmnesty Inter­national, a group which is opposed to the death penalty. In aletter sent to its members last month, the organization said, "Amnesty Interna­tional is opposed to the death penalty in all cases without reservation on the grounds that It is a violation ofthe right to life and the right not to be subject to cruel, inhumane and degrading punishment as proclaimed in the Universal Declaration ofHuman Rights." -AP 

-. A""rery Caim" gunmanseized a jetliner yesterday at 
Los Angeles International Airport, taking six people hostage and 
demanding S3 millionafter the pilot and about 80 passengers escaped, 
authorities said. Seven hours after the 9:30 a.m. takeover, five of the 
hostages had walked offthe Continental Airlines Boeing 727. Shortly 
before 8:30p.m., the last captive, a flight attendant, "ran oft" the plane, 
leavingonly FBI negotiators aboard with the gunman, officials said. No 
injuries were reported and no shots had been fired. Four of the 
hostages came offat I:15 p.m., and Continental spokeswomanJan Har-. 
ris said the last passenger was released at 4:15p.m. Harris could not 
identify the woman, who came offthe plane with an FBI agent, waving 
and smiling. Four hours later, flight attendant Barbara Sorenson, 35, of 
Chicago, a married woman who has been with the airline 13 years, · 
apparently managed to escape through a rear door. -AP 
President Reagan's proposed buctget would 
give states control of 40 health and social programs, from rat control to family planning. But the pricetag for that release from the federal grip is 25 percent less money from Washington. The programs would be combined into four broad grants to the states, which would decide how to apportion their share of S6.8 billion in federal funds in 1982, based on their individual needs. Giving states more say over how to spend federal money has been a long-stated aim of Reagan and his conservative allies. Opponents of such a trend argue that the federal government has proven itself to be a better guardian of needy Americans than have states. By letting the states run the programs, Reagan figures the federal government can eliminate -at a handsome savings -several federal agencies and more than 3,000 employees who now set eligibility requirements and dictate how the money is to be spent. -AP 
Partly sunnyand cool today with a slight chance ofsnow flurries. Highs in the low to mid 30s. Partly cloudy and cold tonight. · Lows in the upper teens to the low 20s. Partly sunny and a little war­mer tomorrow. Highs in the mid to upper 30s. -AP 

concerning the case. In­dianapolis: The State Supreme Court rejected again the ACLU's attempt to stay Judy's execution. Jaob Orr, this state's governo1r, is not going to grant a stay, and he is probably getting tired of being asked the question. Los Angeles: The co\llnty coroners in this city have 
just exhumed and examined the decayed body of one John Spenklink, electrocuted two years ago, because his mother Lois has become convinced that he was beaten either uncon­cious or dead just prior to his strapping-in. Nice timing, Lois. You gotta love a person who knows how to make the wire.Mooresvilles, Ind.: The ex-husband ofStephan 
Judy's victim, Mark Chasteen, says that he told his ex­wife to carry a loaded handgun with her when she went out driving on the interstate, but he doesn't know ifshe would have used it. Michigan City, Ind.: Over 1,000 letters have been received here concerning Judy's ex­ecution. All except one plead for a stay of execution. The ACLU says, in effect, keep those cards and letters 
coming. Indianapolis: The ACLU is fighting for "legal remedies" for the grave injustice being done the poor, downtrodden rapists and murderers ofthis state. They may be cruel, vicious, sick and Immoral, but everybody deserves a little compassion. The ACLU, of course, knows what the best, most compassionate thing to do is here: keep the animal behind bars and let society reform him. 
Also in that story is the opposing viewpoint. Every viewpoint must have an official group name with a 
Washington P.O. box and a non-taxable.st~a~tu;s;·~Y~o;u~·~v;e~~fr~ojm·t·h·e·h~e~a~d~li~n~e~.·W~e~st~a~n~d~b~y·o•u:r~s~to~~~~·iiji·liiil 
_The_ Observer __ 
Design Editor ............................. Mike Monk Design Assistants ................ Monica Gugle Kevin Korowicki Tom O'Connor Layout Staff........................ Usa Bomempo Mary EUen Ewen Stephen Abowd Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor .............................. Lynne Daley Copy Editor ............................. Fran Cackley Features Layout........ Ryan Ver Berkmoes Lisa Bontempo Sports Copy Editor .............. Chris Needles Typists ..................................... Kllthy Murray 
Marily1~ Broderick Systems Controi................Stephen Brown ND Day Editor Ryan Ver Berkmoes(ret.) Ad Design ............................ Woody & Anne Pbotograpber ............................ Beth Prezio 
The Obatrvtr (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except durl ng exam and vacation periods. Tht Obmvtr Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Sub:scrlptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing Tbt bbatrvtr, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postagfi .paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tht Ob..rvtr Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

.l 



-J~ G.A~ 
~ k..,.v· ,15% Discount 
~ toall 

,N.D.-IS.M.C. 
JEWELERS 
. Students 
SINCE 1917



FOX'S / 
DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS 
University Park Mall. and.. Town and Country­Mishawaka 
in a fortnight, it con­centrates his mind wonder­fully." I imagine the same holds true for the electric chair. Steven Judy, with a concentrated mind and less than a fortnight, may well be illustrating this very con­
cept. 

The circus that surrounds StevenJudy has the effect of treating him like less than an animal. It reduces him to a symbol in the struggle ofthe great dialectic between do­
(>.~ · justicers and do-gooders, 
. between the forces of good and the forces ofevil (you may decide which is which), between the law that protects and the law that simply prolongs. The law holds that a man who kills four defenseless people should be repayed in kind. It is an­cient and accepted. Its notion is part of the human psyche. 
Steven Judy does not have to be a great moralist to understand this principle. And since the ACLU cannot, or will not, understand it, we are treated to a circus. Every circus must have its clowns, but the folks at the ACLU are clowns that, this time around, we can do with­out. 
bserver Note·-----. 
The headline of yesterday's story on the sex dis­crimination suit against the University stated that principal plaintiff Dolores Frese had been granted tenure. The story, however, stated that the tenllfing is only part of the proposed settlement of the suit. The Observer regrets any misunderstanding that resulted 
their absurd heads solemnly. They will look sincerely into the camera the television people carry and vow to have better luck next time "saving" a man who wants to die for his crime. 
Steven Judy killed and raped a 21-year-old woman last April. He drowned her three pre-school-age children. He admitted his killings freely, was convicted and sentenced to death under Indiana state law. And death is fine with him. 
But for the extreme man-bites-dog oddity ofhis clear 
preference for death, he has become a hot news ticket. 
And, if Norman Mailer shows up, he will became a 
literary subject celebre. Saturday Night Live will make 
him, or probably already has made him, a subject of 
parody, and thus, with comedy, the three ring circus is heard ofPro-Life? This group is called Pro-Death. They may not be too articulate, but their heart is in the right place. 
Meanwhile, back at the ranch, what of the subject of this circus? The guy wants to die, and his lawyers do not want to plea any kind of insanity on this one because they know full well that Steven Judy is probably more sane than the ACLU, the news media and Norman Mailer combined. 
We citizens ofthe 1980s find it odd that a convicted 
killer should want to die for his crime, should want to 
thwart all attempts at "saving" his life. We see it as some­
how abnormal, an oddity owing to an unbalanced 
psyche or a particularly rough anal stage in his 
complete. 
childhood. I have in front of me the Dr. Samuel Johnson once reams of copy generated off pointed out that "When a the AP wire tonight man knows he is to be hung 
' 


~~­

Friday, March 6, 1981 -page 3
he Observer 

In El Salvador 
Priest calls .revolt 'popular' 
An Tostal '81, the annual school festival, will feature three major new events during its run April 2.3-25, according to Mitch Feiks, An Tostal chairman. 
In addition to the traditional events of the Irish Wake -chariot races through the mud-pits, "Recess 
I 0 I," and the popular Bookstore Ba.~kctball -the An Tostal commit­tee plans to Introduce a Mass Assas­sin contest, lnncrtubt· Water Polo, and a talent show, said Fcikcs. 
Signups for the Ma.o;s Assassin con­test arc scheduled for Sunday from H::\0-1 0:30 p.m. In the LaFortune ballroom, according to Jeb Ca.o;hln, Mass Assassin chairman. For a S3 fcc one can hct·omc an assassin who must "knot·k off his victim before being killed hy anothn assassin," said <:ashin. 
Billing the cwnt as "the t1ncst in 
• An Tostal presentations", Cashin ur!.(cd prospective assassins to sign up early since only 5 I 2 spots arc open. lie added that the assassin n>Jnmittcc will ofti:r players the scrvin· of "tactkal advkc strategies in how to kill someone." 
A maximum of 64 teams of players t·ach can sign up for ln­nt·rtuhe Water Polo Sunday niglH at 6:.30 on the 11rst floor of LaFortune, according to Matt Stolwyk. t•vcnt t·hairman. The matdlt·s will he held 
throughout An Tostal week at 
Rockne with a tt·am li:c: of $6, he: 
said. 
Auditions lilr the third new eVl'nt. 
a ctmpus-wide talc:nt show. have not 
hn·n Sl'hedukd yt·t, said l'c:iks. The 
talent show will he held Thursday 
An Tostal wet·k in the Angela Ath­
Jetie Facility at SMC, he: said. 
Fdks emphasized that workers 
wt·re still needed to plan tht· fes­
tivities of An Tostal, an evt·nt he 
viewed as "everyone's ht·st oppor­
tunity to blow oil' steam bdilrc they 
hittht· 11nals." 
. .Autopsy 
conlinuetlJrum page I 
had to send clectrk shocks through 
Spenkdink's body three times 
hdon· doctors pronounced him 
dt·ad. 
"I don't hclh:vt· for a moment that 
was all a stagt·d show," Fcamstcr 
said, although he said Spcnkdink 
might have been beaten. 
"I'm convinced that they heat up 
onjohn, but I'm not alarmed at that," 
l'eamstcr added. "My guess is that he 
struggled. He didn't say 'Yes, go 
ahead and klll me." 
Fcamster agreed with accounts from other witnesses who say Spt'nkdlnk was alrt'ady strappl'd In­to tht· chair whl'n thl' curtains wt·re opt'ncd for observers, hut his eyes could he seen moving. 
"I looked at him and he looked at me," Feamster said. "He wa.o; srrapped In the chair, hut you could see he was alive." 

ATTN: COPY EDITORS ENGLISH OR AM· STUDIES 


!1.1/.Cl!!~t 

¥-¥PAID POSITIONS** 
applications for observer cop_y editors now being accepted. 
submit name, address, phone and detail any literar_y and I or _iournali.f\m experience c/o the Senior Copy Editor. Deadline March 11. 
present cop_y editors must also submit applications call mar_y fran QUESTIONS????? 
at 7992 or 1715 







CAMPUS VIEW 

NOW RENTING FOR SUMMER S fall special low summer rates: I BEDROOM-$230 2 BEDROOM--$275 available June-August 15 utilities paid. 
central air and heated pool 
272-1441 


• Rib Tips • Sausage 

Open Wed.-Sun. Noon til 8:30 3 Blocks Down from Corby's 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT FRIDAY & SATURDAY 9:30pm to 1 :30om 

PETER & DAVID DUNCAN 
open Monday thru Saturday 
11 : OOam to 3':OOam 
cocktail hour 2pm -9pm ; $.60 .any domestic beer 

$.75 bar drinks 
(any kind of liquor) 
RAND OPENING TODAY door prizes will be given away 
TIO'S IRISH PU 

4609 Grape Road, 
· Mishawaka (J.M.S. Plaza') between Edison & Douglas 
. 





APARTMENTS 
By MIKE O'BRIEN 
StaffReporter 
A Maryknoll priest yesterday told a group of ND-SMC students that current problems in strife-tom El Salvador arc 'a popular uprising" rather than the Soviet-inspired com­munist revolution that it has been pictured to be. 
An Tostal adds new events 
By JEFF HARRINGTON 
News Staff 
Fr. Roy Bourgeois, a member of the Chlcago-El Salvador Solidarity Committee and former participant in a U.S. fact finding mission to that country, made his comments after a movie about the tiny nation was 
shown In SMC's Carroll Hall. 
The movie, entitled Revolution or Deatb, Is an emotional and grap· hie account of what Bourgeois called the liberation process of "the victims of a system ofexploitation." 
The film blames the violence in El 
Salvador on the military and "the 
oligarchic 14 families who control 
halfofthe country's land." 
The movie also suggests that U.S. 
military aid to the government there 
is eventually reflected in the killings 
on Salvadoran streets. 
Bourgeois surprised the audience 
of approximately 150 people by informing them that the president of the military/civilian junta ruling El Salvador, Jose Napoleon Duarte, is a graduate ofNotre Dame. 
The priest asserted that the U.S. State Department maintains an in­correct view of the social strife in the nation, one that fails to recognize the historical exploitation ofthe poor there. 
Bourgeois additionally stated that anyone who speaks out or resists in El Salvador is classified as a leftist. 
He t said this would include the Carroll Hall audience which watched and discussed the film, and as a result, both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame campuses "would be closcJ down." 
Bourgeois urged that people write to Federal officials and ir:isist military aid to the Latin American country be discontinued. 
APPLICATIONS for Bartenders 'at Senior Bar Availabie Wed-Fd and Monday 1n Student Activities Office ( 1st Floor LaFortune) 
DUE MONDAY MARCH 9 by 5:00 pm 
----·----~--­
~-----r-----------------------------------­
The Observer Friday, March 6, 1981 -page 4 

SMC Governance board 
9nto ©ull · Applications due for commtsstoners 

By MARY O'KEEFE 
1981 Black Cultural Arts 
News Reporter 

Applications for a position on Saint Mary's Board of Governance next year are available for interested 


Fashion Show 
March 7, 1981 8:00pm 
students in Saint Mary's Student Ac­tivities Office this week. 
The available positions on the Board include Social Justice Com­
Tickets available $3.50 
345 o'Shag per person 
missioner, Development Commis­sioner, Judicial Commissioner, Student Activities Planning Board
Monogram Room. A.C.C. 
I 
( SAPB) Commissioner, Election Commissioner, Spiritual Commis­
sioner, Off-Campus Commissioner, Athletic Commissioner and Alumni Commissioner. 
The Social Justice Commissioner was an experimental position on the Board of Governance this year, but


f .~ . ht 

will remain as a permanent position
.r1~11v.vJ~........ . in next year's administration. The Social Justice Commissioner, along
LADIES NIGHT RAFFLE with Ministry the
Campus and Justice Education Committee, works at raising the consciousness of students on issues of social justice. The Social Justice Commis­
sat. night after the Bengal Bouts 
sioner also aids in the publication of 
~

........................ 
The Liberator and organizes student
KNOCKOUT SPECIALS participation in community programs at Logan Center, Head Start, the Justice and Peace Center, the Hispanic and Black communities and several area nursing homes. 
The Development Commissioner



-----senior bar---­
is director of the school charity, the student representative in the Busi­ness Associates Program and a mem­ber of the Board of Regents Development Committee. The Development Commissioner plans and coordinates Saint Mary's annual phonathon. 

The Judicial Commissioner is chairperson on the Student Rela­tions Board which makes decisions concerning student cases. The Judi­cial Commissioner is responsible for selecting and training members of the Student Relations Board and acts as a consultant in the entire judicial system. 
The SAPB Commissioner oversees the programming of campus ac­tivities involving films, speakers, en­tertainment, traditional events and the newly developed Coffee House. 
The Election Commissioner is responsible for orgamzmg and managing student body, class officer and freshman council elections. 
The Spiritual Commissioner works directly with Saint Mary's Campus Ministry creating programs and activities that respond to the spiritual interests and needs of the students. This includes coordinating hall masses and developing a hall liturgical planning committee. 
The Off-Campus Commissioner 
works with Saint Mary's administra­tion and Notre Dame's Off-Campus Commissioner in planning. coordinating and organizing ac­tivities for all students living off­campus. The Athletic Commissioner chairs the Student Athletic Council, coor­dinates intramural sports schedules, oversees all hall and class sponsored sports activities and plans Saint Mary's annual Olympic Wet:k. A new position on the Board of Governance next year will bt: an Alumni Commissioner. The Alumni Commissioner will work closely with the Alumni Board at involving the Saint Mary's alumni in more of the students activities on campus. An example of this was the Alumni Founder's Day Program initiated this year. Applicatons for these positions art: due by Friday March 6 in the Stu­dent Activities Offict:. When return­ing the application, the studt:nt must then sign up for an interview. In­terviewing will begin on Monday March 9 with incoming Student Body Officers, outgoing commis­sioners, the Student Body President and the Director of Studt:nt Ac­tivities. 
ND Nights continue 
Rev. John Fitzgerald, Dirt:ctor of
By LOUIS BREAUX 

Campus Ministry, will be in Santa Fe, 
StaffReporter 

El Paso, San Antonio, and Corpus Christi on March 1 7, 18, 19,20. James
For 56 years, Universal Notre Frick, vice-President of Public Rela­
Dame Night has bet:n an annual tradition of the Alumni Association. 
tions, will spt:ak in Clevdand, Bos­Many students will have the oppor­
ton,Detroit, and Washington, d.c., tunity to attend these events in their 
on March 16,17,18,and April 9. hometowns over Spring Break. 
Robert Gordon, vice-President of Universal Notre Dame Night was 
Advanct:d Studit:s will be in Char­started in 1924 by John Neeson, an on
lotte, Raleigh, and Roanokt:,VA alumnus from the class of 1903. The 
March 26,27,28. purpose is to highlight the non­
Vice-President of Student Affairs, athletic achievements of Notre 
Rev. Gregory Green will go to Bir­Dame, especially academics. 
mingham. Ala., Northern Louisiana, The name NO South Louisiana, New Orleans, and
'Universal night' came in the beginning when univer­
Memphis,TN, on March sity officials, faculty, and others, 
I 6,1 7, I 8, 19,20. University Chaplain, Fr. Robert Griffin will go
went to tht: various regional alumni to Springfield, Mass., Pittsburgh,
clubs on the 1st Monday aftt:r Easter Erie, Wheeling, W.V., and Can­
to updatt: tht: alumni on activities at ton/Akron, OH on tht: same dates.
Notre Dame other than sports. Today, Univt:rsal ND night is held by Fr. Michael Heppt:n, Director of
Studt:nt Residences, will appt:ar inpt:riod of two days from March to Binghamtom, NY, Finger Lakes, andMay. 
Syracust: on March 25,26,27. Fr. Tt:d
"Univt:rsal Notre Dame night is , Hesburgh will visit Tulsa, Baltimort:, 
not a fund-raising venture," said Tim Dayton, and Indianapolis on March
Truesdell, Assistant Director of the 11,1 7.19, and April 27. Emil T. Hof­
Alumni Association. "Tht: purpose is man will go to Toledo, Johnstown,
to give an update on campus life. PA, Hartford, Conn., Long Island, and
This is usually the most important Joliet,IL on March 15, 16, 18,20,and
event every year for the clubs. They 27. Fr. Edmund Joyce, Executive
ahvays look forward to it." Students, vice-president, will be in Houston,
parents, and friends are invited to at­Dallas, and Denver on March
tl nd. The schedules for speakers has al­

I 7,18,19. ready been completed. Rev. Joseph Richard Conklin, Director of In­
Carey, Assistant rector ofDillon, will formation Services, will be in
speak in Colorado Springs, S.mta Youngstown, Mansfield, and
Maria CA, Frcsno,CA , and San Joa­Columbus, OH on April 6,7,8. 
quin on March 16, 17, 18, 19. 





,~ ll 

OGANIZATIONAL , MEETING 
iff 


Sunday March 8th 7:00pm 
La Fortune Uttle Theatre 

Friday, Ma ...:b 6, 1981 -page 5 
Congress is candidate for reform 
The last ten years have seen a great American effort to "clean up" society. We have tried to clean up the air, water, Watergate, Vietnam. inflation, and a myriad of other assorted so­cial catastrophes. Many of these demands have emanated from our elected officials in Washington, D.C. 
If ever there was an organiza­tion that needed to be cleaned up, it is the United States Congress. For too long, members of the 
U.S. Congress have been allowed to operate outside of common decency and to straddle the fence of the law. It appears that many of our congressmen and senators are like children: they mustn't he left alone for more than five minutes because they simply can't be trusted. 
When these representatives are caught with their hands in the so­cial cookie jar, they rarely admit their guilt and accept the punish­ment. Ruther. they lie further. Can anyone remember telling a tale as wild as the one told by Rep. Richard Kelly after being nabbed in the Abscam investigation? Congressman Kelly admitted taking bribe money from phony Arab sheiks. However, he said that he suspected something was amiss and decided to conduct his own investigation. This was cer­tainly plausible. However Congressman Kelly's story lost credibility when it was revealed that he began spending the marked money the day after receiving $25,000 in cash. 
Obviously, in a body of 535 men and women there are going to he some less than desirable elected officials. This is 111­

Doonesbury 

evitable. The problem is how can the American public keep this number to a minimum? It is im­possible for every citizen or even a substantial percentage of them to be a moral watchdog over the United States Congress. To even consider this possibility is an in­dication of the low esteem which 
many  people  have for  the  
Congress. Sure,  we  will  pay  at­ 
tention  to  how  our  

representatives vote on specific issues. That is one way in which voters decide if a representative is properly representing them. But to ask the American people to keep watch over a congressman or senator who is speaking "funnytalk" to Arab sheiks or 
Korean businessmen, that I believe is too much. 
As a partial solution to this situation, I propose specific man­datory prison sentences for con­gressmen or senators who are convicted of felony crimes. Un­fair? Yes! Discriminatory? Yes! Severe? I hope so! Is it too much for the American people to demand honesty within the halls of Congress? It would appear on the surface that an honest repre­sentative would not object to such a law. Although this is not neces­sarily true. Many of our elected representatives might be against such a law because the tempta­tions of Washington are so great that one never knows when one will become entangled in this web. 
This law will not eliminate con­gressional crime. It is fairly cer­tain, that a congressman or senator who thought he would be caught committing a crime would not do it. However, it may make 
Garry Trudeau 

YeS, SIR.. I'L-L. GeT MY CO/IT. 


Bill McGuinness 

J 
one or two of these elected pur­sesnatchers think twice before entering felony ground. At this point, some cynics might say that I am arguing for keeping our representatives in misdemeanor territory where they belong. 
There are other problems in the Congress. While these are not il­legal, the morality is dubious. First, congressmen, senators, and federal employees need not participate in that giant Ponzi scheme known as Social Security. As Social Securi•.y takes a bigger chunk of the na­tion's paychecks each year, the very people who have so much to <!o with establishing the tax rates are exempt from paying this tax. 
Some people who are not employees of the federal govern­ment are allowed to withdraw from the Social Security scheme. The catch is that to withdraw from the program, one must be an employee of a municipal, county, or state government. In other words, be it at the federal, state, or local level, government bureaucrats take care of them­selves first and the taxpayers second. To be relieved from So­cial Security taxes, according to Howard Ruff (author of How to Prosper During the Coming Bad Years), a referendum of employees must be held. If the employees vote to withdraw from the Social Security program, a petition must then be filed with the Social Security Administra­tion. That petition is then filed away for two calendar years before one is legally allowed to withdraw from the Social Security program. 
I recommend that the Social 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Edlior·ln·Cblef......................................... Paul Mullaney Managing Editor .............................................Mack Rust Editorials Editor.................................Michael Onufrak Senior Copy Editor ........................Mary Fran Callahan ExecutlveNewsEdltor............................Tom]ackman News Editor .................................................. Lynne Daley SMCExecutive Editor .............................Margie Brassll SMC News Editor.........................................Mary Leavitt SfJ<Jrts Edltor.............................................. Beth Hulfman 
TH~ UGHT AT -rniS END Of li1E 1UNN£L 
j 
Security program be made volun­tary. That is if our government can tolerate the thought of freedom of choice. If the Social Security system is a good one, then very few people will want to withdraw. If it is a poor program, then people will flock from it in droves. And if Social Security is inefficient, then why should the government want the people to remain in the program? 
In this age of inflationary tur­moil, some feel that those people who create the budget (and ul­timately inflation) should bite the economic bullet first. Last November's congressional elec­tions saw many long time incum­bents defeated at the polls. It is one thing to pay our elected offi­cials when they are in office, but it is l(Uite another for the taxpayer to support the inordinate pen­sions that many of our ex­congressmen and senators are receiving. 
Adding insult to injury, the Privacy Act of 1974, forbids the public from knowing the exuH amount of an individual's federal pension. While privacy is an im­portant part of American doctrine, this law travels across the field of privacy and into the area of deceit. According to Lloyd Shearer, congressmen and senators are allowed to collect in pension as much as 80 percent of the average salary for their three highest paid years. A local ex­ample might make this point clearer. Former Congressman John Brademas represented the South Bend area for twenty-two years. A local example might make this point clearer. Former Congressman John Brademas 
FeaturesEdltor..........................................MoUy Woulfe Photo E'dltor...................................................john Macor 
Business Manager .....................................Greg Hedges Controller ...........................................................jim Rudd .4dvertlsing Marn:~ger ......................................Mark EUis · Advertising Sales Manager...............Mkhac:l MeSally . Circulation Marn:~ger ...............................Beth Hackett t>roduction Manager..............................john McGrath 
1 
represented the South Bend area for twenty-two years. Based on service and congressional 1 salaries, a conservative estimate of Mr. Brademas' annual pension 1 places it in the neighborhood of $28,000. 
i
Congressmen and senators are 
not poor people. This year they 
are being paid three times the 
median American family income. 
Pension money paid to our ex­
officials is very likely to be spent 
on the luxuries, instead of the 
necessities of life. The purpose of 
this is not to tell people how to 
spend their money, but to make a 
plea for the end of government ex­
travagance. How is it that our 
elected officials receive such 
large pen t sions? The Congress 
simply passed a law awarding 
themselves these pensions. 
Like anything else in life, good 
government is difficult to 
achieve. However, if we don't 
demand it, we will never obtain it. 
Americans work too hard for their 
money to allow a third party 
(government) to foolishly spend 
their money. There will always be 
improprieties in any system. but 
through hard work and a sharp fis­
cal eye these discrepancies can be 
kept to a minimum. The inaugura­
tion of President Reagan and the 
new Congress affords us the op­
portunity for a fresh start. As in 
the past, these officials will only 
be as responsible as the public 
demands them to be. Continued 
economic failure will rest not on 
their shoulders, but on each 
American taxpayer. 
Bill McGuinness is a senior finance major from Woodbury, New Jersey. 



--~--­

The Observer Friday, March 6, 1981 -page 6 




Aristotelian teaching 
OSKALOOSA, Iowa-Great 
issues are not to be found in this 
farmland community in the south 
central part of a state that is 
literally middle America: 25th in 
population and 24th in size. But ! 
an excitement about great issues 
is here, which may be better. At 
William Penn College, a liberal 
arts Quaker school of 650 stu­
dents in its !06th year, an in­
novative curriculum is baed on classroom debates of the great contemporary issues. 
The other morning, in a class­room of about 25 students and wih a painting of the peaceable kingdom on the wall, I dropped in on one of the intellectual square­offs. Two students were matched against another two on the ques­tion of whether the media manip­ulate public opinion. 
As the passing-through representative of the media that are (pro) the able reflectors of public opinion or (con) crafty and systematic manipulators, I was at first interested to see who would 
"win" the debate. 
But then, listening to the give and take of rebuttal and counter­rebuttal in which quotes from 
A.J. Liebling, I. F. Stone and other titans of the media exploded in the air like truth grenades, the purpose of this method of educa­tion slowly became obvious. First, it is meant to produce minds that can think and, second, it con­forms to Aristotle's thoughts about argument in Book One of Rhetorica: "It is absurd to hold that a man ought to be ashamed of being unable to defend himself with his limbs, but not of being 
unable to defend himself with speech and reason, when the use 
of rational speech is more dis­tinctive of a human being than the use of his limbs." 
The leading Aristotelian on campus is Gus Tuberville, the col­lege president. As one of 1 ,962 four-year college and university presidents -every one of them nervous about the Three Rs of higher education, Rising costs, Rising illiteracy and Rising com­petition for students-Tuberville had his fill of conventional teachers-tal k-and-s tudenIs-listen education. To him, that was oral chloroform. 

t 
"For learning to take place with any kind of efficiency," he sa.ys, "students must be 
motivated. To be motivated, they

f 
must become interested. And they become interested when

t 
they are actively working on projects which they can relate to their values and goals in life." 
In 1979, Tuberville asked his teachers to shape their courses according to the great issues of the day. The risk was that this would be no more than bringing· the Saturday night bull session in­to the daily classroom. But so far, little beery windiness has been heard. 
The most impressive sign that the program is successful can be found in the campus library: in only one year, its use has tripled. 

l I 
Penn students are asked to par­ticipate in at least one debate a semester, taking either the negative or affirmative. As word spreads nationally about the Great Issues program in tiny Os­kaloosa-it is the healthy kin of the Great Books program at Saint John's in Annapolis-the experi­ment is likely to be debated itself. Resolved: William Penn College 
is on to something. I'll take the affirmative. 

Colman McCarthy 







Dear Mr. President 
As an American born in Pittsburgh, Pa., and as a personal friend of two of the four women who were recently murdered in El Salvador, and as a Maryknoll sister who has worked in Latin America for more than 25 years, I enclose this letter, "Parable for a pres~­dent.'' Please consider it my inaugural gift to you. It IS my hope that you will reflect on it and use the power of your office wisely. 
Once there was a big party going on, "the most ex­pensive inauguration in the history of the USA." A rich man, a former matinee idol, dressed in a $1,500 suit, stood behind bulletproofglass and grinned happi­ly. It was the first time since Nero, the fiddler, that a performing artist had attained so much power. 
At the same time, many people throughout this land 
and at the door of his country were having hard times. 
Their last name was Lazarus and all they wanted was 
bread on their tables, ajob to support them and a little 
peace in their lives. Close by, in a country called" He 
Who Saves," many of the same family were being 
tortured, raped and murdered. They too longed for 
peace, and if it hadn't been for the rich man's guns, 
planes and bombs, they might have had it. 
The rich man liked to sit in his white house and push buttons (some very dangerous), and look at blips on a television screen. That way he could see where his planes and bombs were. And every day his servants brought him reports so he could see how many poor people had died and how happy his friends were. There were 14 wealthy families in the country of He Who Saves, and they knew they could count on the 
rich man. The rich man wasn't alone in the house or the country. He had his family, and the people he invited to his parties and then there were the ordinary people who did the work and hoped they'd get a piece of the pie at the party. One day, when the party wasjustgettinggoing, four 
Elizabeth Roach 

of the workers' daughters strolled outside. Almost in the doorway, they found the country of He Who Saves, better known as El Salvador. And right away, they found their relatives, the other Lazaruses, who recognized them as their brother's children. 
And the Lazaruses were really nice people. They were embarrassed when the four daughters saw them bleeding. They knew the daughters had never seen anybody who had been tortured. 
The daughters, too, were frightened by the bullets and the helicopters and the bombs, but the Lazaruses helped them. They invited them into their little shacks and shared the little bread they had. 
The daughters knew many people in the rich man's house would help the Lazaruses if they knew what was happening. So they started to send messages. The rich man got all his mail, but the workers didn't always get theirs. And worse, the rich man's 14 friends dis­covered what the four daughters were doing. 
The 14 sent their soldiers to kill the four daughters. The Lazaruses were very sad. Nine thousand of their family had already been killed, but they were especial­ly sad about the four daughters, because they knew the four could have stayed in the rich man's house and enjoyed the party. It was because they were with the Lazaruses that they had been killed. 
After that, few people in the rich man's house heard about it, but that's not the end of the story. In the next chapter, the Lazaruses find a way to stop the guns and bullets and bombs from arriving in their country. And the working people in the rich man's house say, "If he didn't spend all that money on guns, there would be a lot more pie." 
Then, in the next chapter, they just tell the rich man, "More pie for us, no guns for you." From there on the story gets complicated, because the rich man and his friends don't know what to do with all the guns and bombs and nuclear warheads they've been stockpiling for years. They can't eat them. 

Congressmen's 
•


wtves are boring 
Playboy magazine has just done a lovely take-out on Rita Jenrette, the wife of the former congressman from South Carolina. 
Apparently, Playboy was searching for an in-depth feature on the typical congressional wife, and by chance came across Mrs. Jenrette while she was making love to her husband on the Capitol steps. 
This is how the story came about. A Playboy editor, who was on his way to protest higher mail rates for magazines to his senator, tripped over the couple and said, "This is a great honor for me. I never thought I'd meet a congressman and his wife in the 
flesh." 
Then he explained that Playboy was planning to do a long spread on the trials and tribulations of what it was like to be married to a 
congressman. "Congressional wives lead an awfully dull life," Mrs. Jenrette protested. "We just go to parties given by lobbyists, where other politicians proposition us, and sometimes people attempt to put drugs in our drinks, and other times a governor might try to grab us in the shower. But it doesn't seem worth a whole story· in Playboy." "To you it might sound dull, but to the average reader sitting at home reading the hi-fi ads in our magazine, it sounds very excit­ing. After all, you're at the seat of power." "We'rejust like everyone els," Mrs. Jenrette said. "We attend our husband's trials when he's caught in an FBI sting operation, and we keep a stiff upper lip when he goes off the wagon, and we hide our cash in a shoebox." "That's just the point of our stoy," the Playboy editor said. "Despite the glamour and the heady atmosphere of Washing­ton, you're still just plain simple folks at heart. Let me ask you something. Do you always make love on the Capitol steps?" "Not always," said Congress­man Jenrette. "Sometimes we wait and do it at home." "Terrific," the editor said. "It shows that a congressman's wife understands his work and, if he can't get home, she's willing to spend time with him on the Capitol steps." "It would be nice to show Mrs. Jenrette around the house when she wasn't all dressed up to go out. It would depict the human side of a congressman's wife." 
"Well, honey, I think it could help my career and make everyone forget about Abscam," Congressman Jenrette said. "If Jerry Falwell can appear in Pent­house, I don't see arything wrong in you appearing in Playboy." 
"Then you'll do it?" the editor asked. 
"If you think it will help the readers of Playboy understand how our government works, I don't see why not," Mrs. Jenrette said. 
"Great." 
Unforturarcly, by the time the article was s.:heduk . to appear, the Jenrettcs broke up. so the idea of how a ty}>ical C\•ngressman's wife lives in v:ashinr,ton went out the windov· The Pl;•yboy editors decided to ,.~ange n.e theme of the story to how diff:r·ult it was for a congressn•an' s "'· fe to stay married in Wash!i'gton. For­tunately, they didr.'t have to shoot any nc>w artwo-~1( to go with the feature. 

Art Bu~~h\\ ,,lld 



Friday, March 6, 1981 -page 7 




·-atures 
Sadie, Sadie, Married Lady 
time: has come: -March 14 -for jeannie: to be 

m••mo::u_ and I'm looking for a redhead -or anyone: caring that has accompanied each ofyou singly for a -to take: her place:. For a year and a half now, lifetime will be the gift bestowed on you by friends and 
'Altered' Falters 

Just Try to Understand Me 
~e film Altered States could not possibly
J. have a more apropos title:, since: the: only way to enjoy this piece ofcelluloid drivel is In an altered state:. The: movie: combines the worst ofseveral other movies and ends on a note sure to send patrons scurrying to trash receptacles for reasons othc:r then trash disposal. 


The screenplay Is derived from a book ofthe same: name: by Paddy Chaydsky. While: the: book would undoubtably enliven an c:xtc:ndc:d stay in a bus terminal, the: movie with its overly loud soundtrack, tiresome psychadelics, and insipid dialogue: manages to anger the: viewer for paying four solid bucks to view a splicing of200I: A Space Oddesy, Close Encounters oftiH Tblrd Kind, and Tarzan, with overtones ofTbelncrt!dlbkHulk. The: overall effect Is on par with the: latter. 

The plot Is all too familiar. A bright young scientist (William Hurt) meets another bright young scientist (Blair Brown). She: falls in love -he doesn't -but they marry. Life sprouts and comes up roses for the: two and they are both dubbed professors at none: other then Harvard Unfortunately, young Hurt Is fascinated by hal­lucinagc:nic drugs, believing he: can return to the: dawn of man. So ab­sorbed in his work Is he that he neglects his wife: and family for his research. His wife: ventures offto Africa for a year and he: tramps down to Middle: Mexico to meet a tribe: ofln­
dlans whose Ilk consists almost 
entirely ofpicking mushrooms, eating 
lizards, and cruising the: cosmos. 
Our young sclc:ntlst Is convinced 
that he: can experience the: dawn of man. After a particulally bad trip, he: drops everything and begins an extensive study into the mushroom scene. This study lnclu t des the: use ofa "Tank." Tanks arc an innovation In mind-expansion from Califor­
nia. (Where else?) They consist ofenclosed boxes filled with mineral water. Subjects close themselves into these cubicles, and proceed to , float in liquid heated to body temperature, surrounded by darkness. Soon, as this writer can attest, the floaters experience: daydreams ­like sensations. InAltered States however, our poor scientist goes several stepsfur­ther -actually he falls down a few flights and experiences creation. 
Aided by two of the most stereotypical ofdolts, your standard weasel-like assistant, and a cynical red-neck, our hero recklessly ~aeries on. His wife protests his foolishness (as does the audience); this has a minimal effect since he doc:s't give a hoot about. her, anyway. Eventually, he turns into a prehistoric man. Exactly how he does Is un­answered. The movie ends with a dramatic speech followed by a scene best avoided by those sickened by schtick. 
Altered States Is a movie that subteens and confused adolescents will undoubtably find significant and meaningful. The film has no depth at all. When our scientist turns into an ape and ravages a sheep in a zoo, the explanation given by the movie Is that he was in an "altered state." The hows, whys, and whats, ofthls condition go uexplalned. The burden ofsuspense talUs on the boisterous soundtrack. The music is over-used in an effort to create suspense where none exists. Long sequences portraying his drug experiences are reminiscent of the tilm2001, yet not as exhilarating or thought­provoking. Mostly they resemble an explosion at a paint factory. 
Acting is generally poor. William Hurt maintains the expression of one recently lobotomized. On the other hand, Blair Brown, as his wife:, has mastered (shall we say OD'd) on the concerned, caring look. The rest ofthe cast delivers their lines lin a most functional manner. The only highlight Is Miguel Godreau as the primal man. His ape-like antics are effective, albeit rather amusing. His fracas with some dogs is particularly good. 
Exploringour minds is a fascinating field that will probably become more widespread in the future as our culture: becomes less manual and more: mental. This movie should forestall any popular movement in this direction. Scientists are portrayed as quibbling spoiled brats, and the whole Idea ofother states ofconsciousness is made a mockery of, what with Indians, mushrooms, and armldlllos. 
The movie disappoints throughout. It never reaches Into Itself to explore its own motives. The ending Is right out ofa soap opera, and the acting Is perfunctory. 
R
eaders who saw many movies last year are asked to send me your picks for this years best and worst movies. Write down your pick as the year's greatest, and your choice as the year's dog along with your reasons. Deadline for submissions Is today, so don't delay. 
Wn"ters note: Each week's revtlw is accompanied h a Pat Byrnes illustration that corresponds to the film's overall qt~altty. 



;m~~~"itt 
To be avoided A real snoozer As exciting Wonh seeing, Not to~ at all costs as knitting a solid effon missed, a classic 
been another fellow's girl. First she: was his Han­now she's going to be: his bride:; and for the: next years or so, she'll be his wife:. Sadie, Sadie, Married as Strc:lsand would say, and no longerJeannie, 
-'"''n''""· Toscannini, guide: to the: flutes and cellos sweet, wild notes from another time:, as though thc:y were: our song. hers and mine:. Next Christmas' necktie: wlU not be from her but from them. When her becomes tbnn, then us becomesI; and I wlU no longer wear neckties. I shaU become: dull again; In my dullness, 
neckties wll seem like: the: sign ofa fop. I shall retire: my Countess Mara necktie: and my Pierre: Cardin shirt. I shall have: them bronzed, and usc: them as bookends, enduring monuments to the: year when I blc:ssc:d a youngwoman's gifts as an encouragement to be: ayoung dog about campus. 
jeannie:, dear, you've: been so very kind. It has been such a great honor to have: loved you. Will Sadie, Sadie, Married Lady have: time:, once: In a while:, to lead a middlc:-llfc:r across the: moon-drenched paths ofthe North Quad, after swinging a shoe with the: Glee: Club at thc:lr Strauss Ball, as]eannle,Jeannie, Toscannini, once: did? 
Oh, IfI were: the: new husband, loving you fiercely, I would say, "Old man, be quiet, and drink your hem­
lock." Younglove: can be: like: that; young love can fc:c:l threatened by old loves, Ifold lovesseem selfish. Young love:, until it becomes sure ofItself, needs to drive Its 
, rivals ( oh, I ftattc:r myself) from the field. Confirm him In his role: as lord and master of your heart before re­negotiating old contracts ofa1fectlon. Be confirmed yourself as the: first lady ofhls life. Then to both ofyou, mutually affirmed as lovers In a bond that makes you one:, all the: rest will be: added, as the needs are supplied to Christians who seek first the kingdom ofGod. All the 
I 
am doing a report on the: West Ridge t community of Chicago, a neighborhood on the far North Side, next to Evanston and Skokie:. To augment my report, I want to take a few photographs ofthe area. But my roommate does not want to lend me his Canon AE-1 since he is planningon using it the same day 1am going to Chicago. 1know Hackett has a camera, but I can't find Hackett to a.o;k him If 1can borrow it. I guess, then, that I am just going to have to ask Williams. 
Williams has an Olympus Somethingorother, but Wil­liams is not very fond of me. She thinks I am neurotic. I feel very bad asking her. I have not been all that friendly with her. It's not that! don't like her-hell, I don't real­ly even know her. It's simply that I can't get across to her what I am truly trying to say, to do, to be. I wish I knew how to handle this. I am confused and frustrated. 
But Chicago awaits, and I need a camera. 
So I walk across to Williams' apartment at Campus View. I knock twice: on her door. "Come In!" she: says, and 1enter, declaring. "I bet you say that to all the: boys." 
Wbat are you doing?! How do you expect to bonuw ber camera ifyou makefun ofber? Let's back tbis one up and try t1 again. 
I walk across to 'Williams' apartment. I knock twice on her door. "Come: In!" she says. I enter, knowing I am going to be rejected ...You don't know that. Be positive about tbis. Again .. 
I walk across to Williams' apartment. I knock twice on her door. "Come: in!" she says. I enter the drab, little apartment, and my eye catches sight ofthe book ofRod McKuen poems on the coffee table, the latest Foreigner album by the stereo, the pile ofCosmopolitan magazines In the corner, the "I Love New York" poster on the wall, the .... You are dwelling on matters of re/atir'e unimportance. 
I walk across to Williams' apartment. I knock twice on her door. "Come in!" she says. I enter the apartment, and I ask, "Williams, may L. Hey! Her first name Is Gall. Why don't you try being a bitfriendly?! 
I walk across to Williams' apartment. I knock twice on her door. "Come In!" she says. I enter the apartment, and I say, "Gall, 1.. .. I.. .. I, I've tried bleaches, powders, li­quids, everything: but I can't seem to get the stains out ofmy...." Hold on a second!! This is notSenior Bart Try 
acting with a measure ofrespect and decency. 
I walk across to Williams' apartment. I knock twice on her door. "Come in!" she says. I enter the apartment, and I say, "Gail, did you know that the second most­common method ofsuicide worldwide for females is drowning?" That's what is best aboutyou. You're so...so...so pleasant. 
I walk across to Williams' apartment. I spray paint her door Day-Gio purple. Didyou bear? The Dead are in town! 
I walk across to Wllliams' apartment. I knock twice on her door. "Come In!" she says. I enter the apartment, and I say, "Gall, I.know you think I am a jackass, and you are rlght--1 am a jackass. I've treated you as Ifyou were a misogynist's plaything, or a phrenologist's skull, or the Pruitt Igo housing project, or wing tips on wing-tipped shoes, french fries dipped in a vat ofWesson's Oil, corin­thian leather and plush velour carpeting at no extra charge, the Monarch Notes edition ofSteppenwolfthat cannot be returned to the bookstore for a refund, the c:xra miles you get when you fill up with Ammoco super un-leaded premium..." You've lost me. 
I walk across to Williams' apartment. I knock twice on her door. "Come In!" she says. I enter the apartment, and I begin. "Gall, I would like to set a few things straight. I have: nothing personal against you. I never did. I guess when I act unfriendly toward you or when I carry on like I'm crazy you think I am trying to hurt you or something. But I'm not. I really would like to be a friend. But I have a tough time expressing that. You see, I have been strugling a lot recently. Things have been pretty rough for me. And I'm having a hard time han­dling it. In my attempts to fight off all ofthese things that are bothering me, I sometimes say things that I don't really want to say. I hope you can understand that. So forget the time I said you looked like Ernest Borgnine in drag and let's be friends." Do you really want to say this? What Ifshe believes you? 
1walk across to Williams' apartment. I knock twice on her door. "Come in!" she says. I enter the apartment, and I ask, "Gail, may I borrow your camera today?" She replies.... 
Mark Mocarski 

family, to offer the other as the first blc:ssing ofmarriage. His siblings wiU be your siblings, and your parents will bc:long to him. You wiU walk on the sure ground ofhis faith In God, even as he will trust your faith to lead him 
to heaven. 

The: sharingofmarriage may not always come easy, as when one: has to accept the palo and grief ofone's partneras part ofone's own pcrso11al c;truggle. One may have a dream: "Our covenant agreed upon happiness. I wlU not let you suffer, and I will not let you fall. I will help you turn your life: around at times when you could hurt yourself With me at your side, everything you know and touch wiU always be beautiful." 
After the dreaming comes the first day of the rest of your marriage. Hurting and bc:lng hurt wlU happen, not because you love so little:, but because you love so much. Do not try to be.u your crosses singly, so as to spare the other. The strong horse In a team not only pulls the: wagon; he also pulls the lazy horse. Sometimes, In marriage, the husband Is the: cross that the wife must bear, or the wife Is a burden to her husband. The best way to treat your cross in that case Is to hug it. You can deal better with a cross If you can get It offyour back, and Into a posit on where: you can put your arms around it. But enough of the metaphysics ofunion. 
Sadie, Sadie, Married Lady, I will love you wisely and tenderly as much as I lovedjeannie,}eannle, Toscan­nlnl, but love wlll keep Its distance until Nick says that I may love: you as an uncle loves you, or as a grandfather loves you, or as a priest loves you. He may, any time he likes, Invite: me to your home for the evening meal. I wlll come, and I wiU behave well, though both ofyou, If you like, can spoil me. Both ofyou can say: "We like having you care about us, and we: care about you. You are part ofour marriage, like the set ofdishes we got with Green Stamps." Nick and I will shake hands, and we will wink at one another, because we have joined In a conspiracy to keep Sadie, Sadie, Married Lady a happy woman. 
When I come, jeannie, would you mind if sometimes I brought along another redhead -or someone lovely, IfI can find someone? She could help me pick out neckties, jeannie; she will keep me from seeming dull. 
jeannie,Jeannie, Toscannini, I cannot tell you in how many ways I hope the Lord will bless you and Nickle In your marriage. 
The Observer -Features Special Friday, March 6, 1981 -page 8 
A New Social Era for Notre Dame 

What is it? 

T
he coffeehouse this weekend features a unique combination ofprogressive rock and roll tied in with a talented electrified bluegrass duo. Both bands, Zibbytebo and Gorecki and Stout hail from the Mid­west, thus representing the strong musical pipeline renown to this region. 
In the likeness of Northwestern's "Amazing Grace" and Michigan State's "Ten Pound Fiddle," Notre Dame's coffeehouse offers an outstanding entertain­ment for students and staff alike. Tonight's and Satur­day's cross blend ofmusic is a prime example ofone of the coffeehouse's objectives: Introduce students to different forms ofmusic in a pleasant, mellow atmos­phere. Don't be too surprised, though, when these two bands kick it out for a fine night offun and music. 
Zibbytebo, featuring the Balbo Brothers, plays progressive rock with the best. Featuring harmonies reminiscent ofCrosby, Stills, Nash and Young, these musicians play the full spectrum ofrock. Rangingfrom CSN to Cream and the Doors, Zibbytebo is certain to 
provide a good set. The Balbo Brothers were a hit at Vegetable Buddies and the group presently is coming off a Midwest tour. Stout and Gorecki feature progressive "grass" with 
• outstanding lyrics and music. Hailing from Jackson,
L. 
Michigan, this electrified bluegrass duo are also completinga Midwest tour that included trips to Ohio and Michigan. 
Future bands on the coffeehouse's agenda include nationally known Eddie Shaw and Ellen Mcllwaine withJump in the Saddle scheduled for the last show. These national talents will provide domers with many evenings ofentertainment. 
Ellen Mcllwaine will appear soon at "Chautauqua," Notre Dame's new student coffeehouse. 

N 


AT THE 
Photo by Beth Prezio Drawings by Pat Byrnes 

Why Chautauqua? 
A 
letter from Thomas A. Edison to the Chatauquas September 15, 1923 
Greetings to all the Chautauqua, who have set aside oneday in the recognition ofthe original movement started by those two men ofimagination Lewis Mil­ler andj.H. Vincent; a movement based on the idea whichbas nowspreadoverthe whole ofourcountry and, infact, over the world; an idea which bas been and will continue to be ofimmense educational value to all thepeople and, therefore, offirst impor­tance to their welfare. 
Tonight and tomorrow evening, the Chautauqua Movement comes to Notre Dame in the form ofthe coffeehouse in the ballroom ofLaFortune Student Center. The concept behind the movement dates back to the first part ofthis century when Chautauqua tents dotted rural America During those days, the tents rolled back and forth and up and down America's countryside bringing along a constant flow of music and lectures. Then, almost as quickly as they had come, the movement ended with the invention ofthe radio and the car. 
The institution ofChautauqua was founded in 1874 in western New York next to Chautauqua Lake. It began as a popular system ofeducation with a twofold pupose: summer-school for Sunday-school teachers and a presentation ofcorrelated lectured and enter­tainment. Underlying this movement was the belief that an individual must necessarily take advantage of the best that the educated world can afford in the literatures, art and the sciences. 
"Chautauqua Week," in hundreds ofcommunities, became the most important five to seven days in the whole year. Bold thinkers ofdaring ideas spoke open­ly about issues ofthe day, and all America went home to think. Inside the big brown tents ofthe travelling Chautauqua, millions ofAmericans listened to out­landish ideas like a federal income tax, slum clearance, free school books and even world disarmament! 
"The most American thing in 
America," Theodore Roosevelt once said, a statement that few tried to challenge during the first quarter of this century. 
Today, Chautauqua still exists in New York as a small cultural society with a summer program of speakers. Tonight and Saturday, it starts again at Notre Dame. The transformation of the ballroom into an entertainment center likeable to the old Chautauqua tents has just begun. This long-term undertaking un· doubtedly will give Notre Dame and Saint Mary's a forum for thought and entertain­ment featuring professional musicians and speakers. The coffeehouse ideally will host a wide 
variety gftalent. Jazz, blues, bluegrass, rock, comedy, oration or even debate -the possibilities are endless. At long 
• last the search for an alternative to those dreary "what's going on" weekends that have permeated our semesters at the University ofOur Lady have come to a happy ending. Chautuaqua has arrived as an out­standing alternative. 
Peter Urbain 


Friday March 6 Nazz Music Competition 


8:00-1:30 
Saturday March 7 'Winners Show 
\ 




9:00-? 
( 


The Observer -Features ~al Friday, March 6, 1981 -page 9 


,-------------------------------------------~





CHAUTAUQUA 
COffiESTO NDIII 
Zibbytebo and Gorecki and Stout 
Friday March 6 9:00 -1:30 
Saturday March 7 $2.00 


LAFORTUNE COFFEEHOUSE 
'Olautaugua' Coffeehouse serves all students 
A
t Notre Dame, there arc two categories ofstudent interaction. One is off­campus interaction at such places as the bars, (the major focus ofoff-campus diver­sity), and movies, restaurants and (infrequent) student-oriented cultural events in the South Bend community. 
The other is on-campus interaction. The dominant focus of this type is within the dormitories. Sporting events and on­campus movies provide for the most con­sistent and widely attended events, but something still is lacking. Dorm parties arc inherently limited to dorm members, and overcrowding cramps much ofeven this space. 
One alternative is the coff<:ehouse in the Lafortune Ballroom. 
The objective ofthe coffeehouse is to create a mellow and comfortable atmos­phere where friends and friends-to-be can enjoy outstanding mu~ical performances. In contrast to the Nazz, which is a valuable source ofstudent artistic expression, the coffeehouse will provide professional en­tntainment for a low admission price. Through a serious sound survey, the bal­lroom has been equipped to accomodate professionals in every sense ofthe word. 
The coffeehouse, however, is not merely a concert settinglike, for instance, an infre­quent Student Union-promoted concert at the ACC or Stepan Center. The atmosphere to be created in the ballroom relies on the music, but will have its roots in the room it­self. Great emphasis has been placed on providing for a unique on-campus environ­ment where people can relax, exchange in­formation, see and be seen without the noise, sweat and alcohol of the hars and without the screaming fans ofa football, basketball or hockey game. The setting will not only accomodate the viewing ofa per­formance but also an intimate conversa­tion. 
Barriers such as transportation, crowding. seeing the same people and monetary concerns are eliminated at the coffeehouse. The resurgent LaFortune Stu­dent Center provides easy access for both North and South quadders, and the unique ballroom provides an atmosphere that will be remembered for years to come. 
As the project stands right now, the Uni­versity has funded through Phase I. A stage with curtain back dr.op and two levels has been constructed near the north alcove of the ballroom. Lighting and sound equip­ment have been hung professionally to provide the proper setting for performers. 
At this point in time, the coffeehouse is in a testingstage to see ifthere is a genuine need for such social space. The University in their ever-cautious manner has purchased only things that, ifthe cof­feehouse is a failure, can be sold or used elsewhere at Notre Dame. 
The remaining three-fourths ofthe money which has been allotted to the room, a sum of:.round seventy thousand dollars, will remain in escrow depending on the success of tl1is semesters' shows. Phases II through IV include additional purchases ofone hun::'n.. d and fifty tables with chairs and al:o:t: ill'! possible addition of I 7 booths arounq tht perimeter of~!le room. 
Asnack bar, inclth.!ing s!nk, soda foun­tain, coffee machine, blender, popcorn machine and a dishwasher and refrigerator would be added in Phase IV. The snack bar would serve va t rious exotic fruit drinks with coffee and hot cider. Some health foods would also be offered to help soothe the late-night munchies. 
S70,000 is contingent on student in­volvement. The never-ending conflict be­tween whether or not we really do need more social space could be decided with this project. 
So the coffeehouse represents every­thing from a cultural and social awakening to a political pawn for students' ideas. The professional atmosphere promises to provide top notch entertainment on a campus sometimes barren ofthings to do. 
The jump In The Saddle Band will be jamming the tunes at the campus' new coffeehouse "Chautauqua." 

Chautaugua; not the NAZZ 
T
he Student Government and Student Activities office should be congratulated on the opening oftheir latest venture, the LaFortune ballroom coffeehouse "Chautauqua". There are, none­theless, several things which have to be set straight before the new coffeehouse opens. For ml those who have asked -NO, the NAZZ will NOT be moving up to the ballroom. The 
NAZZ and Chautauqua ar<~ two separate entities and are quite different i the following ways: 1.) 
Location: The NAZZ is located in the Rathskellar(basement ofLaFortune) while ,; Chautauqua is in the ballroom; 2.) Type ofen­tertainment: The NAZZ prescms student amateurs who arc not paid for their efforts while Chautauqua will present "professional" entertainment which will not include students unless they are pald; 3.) Staff: The staffofthe NAZZ is completely volunteer while Chautau­qua workers will be paid; 4.) Price: The NAZZ docs not charge admission to its shows and never has, except in cases ofbenefit perfor­mances for charity (ie. Cavanaugh flail's Andy Sowder Fund, FLOC, Cambodian Relief). Chautauqua will be charging a cover charge to take care ofpayment ofprofessional enter­tainers as well as staff. ­
The NAZZ staff and its student performers (many ofwhom have gone on to play profes­sionally) would lil<e to thank the student body for their spport ofthe coffeehouse since its in­ception approximatey ten years ago. As those of you who are "regulars" (and not so regular) know, a coffeehouse at Notre Dame is not a new idea. And for those of you who have been wondering what is happening with the NAZZ, rest assured that we'll still be hanging in there 
. -wttb your support! Stop down and visit anytime! 



IheoObse&ver==================== 


I I 
I ­


Toda~===========F=ri=da=y=,M=ar=ch=6=,=19=8=1=pa=ge=l=O 
Campus 
FRIDAY, MARCH 6 
•1 
: 15 p.m. -dept of electrical engineering lecture, "new results in connectons between cover problems: the coprime factorizaton problem and realization theory," dr. a.c. an­toulas, swiss federal inst. of tech. 356 fitzpatrick. 

•3:30 
p.m.-philosophy dept. colloquium, "common causes and scientific realism," bas van frausen, u. oftororito. memorial library lounge. 

•5:15 
p.m. -mass and supper, bulla shed. 

•7 
p.m. -film, "seguin" 117 haggar hall, sponsored by mexican-american graduate students. 

•7,9,11 
p.m. -film, "heaven can walt", engr. aud. sponsor: freshman class. 

•7 
p.m. -track meet, ace, nd vs. no. ill univ. 

•7,9:15,11:30 
p.m. ..:... film, "fame" carroll hall smc, spon­sor: sapb, admission fl. 

•7:30 
p.m. sophomore literary festival, herbert gold, san francisco, tieton & short story writer. 

•s
p.m. -plano festival, robert mcdowell (guest artist), little theatre. 


SATIJRDAY, MARCH 7 
•special 
olymplcs, arena/aux. gym, ace. 

•1 
p.m.-gymnastic meet, nd, smc, purdue, aaf. 

•4 
p.m. -sophomore literary festival, anthony hecht, mem. library aud. 

•7,9,11 
p.m. -fllm, "heaven can wait," engr. aud. 

•7,9:15, 
11:30 p.m. -film, "fame" carroll hall smc, spon­sor: sapb. 

•7:30 
p.m.. -sophomore literary festival, margaret at­wood, canadian poec, mem. library aud. 

•s 
p.m. -black cultural arts festival, fashion show, ace. 

•s 
p.m. -opera, "cosl fan tut­ti" by mozart, the complete opera o'laughlin aud, smc. S7 general admission, $5 students & senior citizens. 

•s 
p.m. -piano festival, robert mcdowell (guest artist), little theatre. 

•8:30 
p.m. -the outcasts present: our second date, spe­cial guests: the emmanuel sin­gers, washington hall. 


SUNDAY, MARCH 8 
•2 
p.m. -opera, "cosi fan tutti", o'laughlin aud. smc. 

•2 
p.m. -bengal bouts, ace. 

•2 
p.m. -mass, moreau semi­nary, sponsor: friends of the retarded and I'arc he. 

•2 
p.m. -recital, the ariel chamber players, mem. library aud. & lounge. lynn westerberg, violin; adele welland, violincel­lo & ginger yang, piano. 

•6:45 
p.m. -cila, general, meeting, library lounge. 


Today's Quotes 
Nothing would be done at all ifa man waited till he could do it so well that no one could find fault with it. 
Chinese proverb 
Men die, and they are not happy. 
from Caligula by Camus 

Molarity 

Michael Molinelli 

ACROSS 27 Straight 51 Deputy: 1 Catch 30 Rhododen-abbr. 
sight of dron plant 52 Neck..nd-­5 Havefun 32 G ..llc neckendlng 9Eastem 33 Urge 58 March king 
princes 34 Humorous 80 Large 14 Son of sketch bundle 
Jacob 37 Explode 81 Unoccupied 15 Get excited 38 Lena of 82 Rule: suff. 18 Sidestep song 83 Nuncupative 17 Olympian 39 Greek 64 Athand 18 Otlsof leHer 65 Titlcaca 
baseball 40 Obstacle and Tahoe 19 Cappeak 42 Lily plant 68 Uncanny 20 Barely 43 Suave 67 Arena 
triumphs 45 Bigoted proceeds 23 Numerical 47 -light p,.flx (under­DOWN 
24 Rubber stand) 1 Cabbage trees 48 Insignia dish 25 Non•xpert 50 Parent 2 Scopeor 
meter 3 Baking compartment 4 Paper 
hankies 5 Entreaty 6 Fernando 
of films 7 Rlverln 
England 8 Gypsum 9 Disclose 

10-Baba 
~:!::-+!!'t¥:-1~!-II!!!II+HHII.~~~~ 1 11 Barely
succeed 
~~~P--1~~~• 12 Be wild about 3/1111 13 Finch 

I 
I 


Ayesha 

• 



The Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 
21 Let-clown 22 ::."!Y 
a plow 
28Afflrmatlv. 27 "-that touch 
liquor•••" 28 Niblick 29 Very close 30 Traffic 
sign 31 District 33 Horseback 
sport 35 Yen 36 Seize 38 Rigorous 41 Joke 43 Trailer, 
for short 44 Tendency 46 Gives back 47 In a secure 
way 48 Fundamental 49 Marketplace 
of Greece 50 Tooth 53 Wood·wind 54 Weight 
allowance 55 Thought 56 Thin strip 
of wood 57 Roll call reply 59 Haggard's 



~ -~--~ 
• 

The Observer Friday, March 6, 1981 -page 11 
DePaul seeks revenge vs. Irish 
By BETH HUFFMAN for the second time in as many that opened its arms to the Irish last average and clears the boards at an The Irish, too are looking toward Sports Editor weeks. Tip-off time for the week. Instead ofthe rowdy Irish fans average ofnine per game. the heralded tourney. "Right now, nationally-televised game is I2:45 who invaded the new facility for the Two Chicago native sophomores, we're trying to do everything we can 
Coach Ray Meyer and his DePaul p.m. CST. clash with Terry Holland's club, Teddy Grubbs, a 6-8 forward, and to prepare ourselves for the NCAA ntuc Demons do not take defeat "We saw the intensity DePaul had Notre Dame will be confronted by a Terry Cummings, a 6-9 center, join tournament," said Phelps. "We took lightly. The Mark Agulrre-led club when it played UCLA in December, crowd possessed by the Blue the remarkable Aguirre in the Sunday and Monday off to give all of finished 26-2 last season, falling to after losing to UCLA last year in the Demons. 
frontcourt. Grubbs contributes at a us a break, and now the DePaul game just Notre Dame (76-74 20T) and tournament. I'm sure DePaul will Ray Meyer, a I938 Notre Dame rate of nine points per game while will be another steppingstone in our UCLA (77-71 ). The Demons have that same kind of feeUng Sun­graduate, heads the 26-I DePaul Cummings hits at a 13.0 clip and preparation. I think we're in a good avenged the Bruin loss December day after our victory over them last club for his 38th year. Meyer, aided hauls in nine rebounds. frame of mind right now. The 27 In tht· Rosemont Horizon, season," said Digger Phelps, who has by his son Joey, has recruited some Skip Dillard, a 12-points per game players have been through enough humiliating the Uclans 93-77. That won six of nine games coaching of the Chicago area's best basketball man, is the fourth Blue Demon star­different situations this year and in leaves DePaul with just one more against the 68-year-old Meyer. players in recent years with Aguirre ter from the Chicago area. Dillard, past seasons that they know what "score to settle" from last season. The Horizon, site of Notre Dame's topping the list. Aguirre, named the who like Aguirre is a graduate of ha.~ to be done. They know what That score will be tallied this Sunday 57-56 upset ofthe Virginia Cavaliers, best player in America last year, 
Chicago Westinghouse High School, they have to do to get ready -that's wht•n the Irish invade the llorizon will not be the warm, receptive hall boasts nearly a 24 point scoring pairs at the guard spot with all­what playing teams like Kentucky 
America Clyde "the Glide" Brad­and Virginia away from home has shaw, a native of East Orange, N.J. done for them. Bradshaw leads DePaul in the assist "Everything is mental the rest of

"Vatican championship" 
category while averaging nine the way. We know we can play with points a game. DePaul or whoever we draw in thl' "When DePaul is on a roll, there :ournamcnt. It's simply a matter of



C.S.C.'s vs. Vincentians 
isn't a team in the country that can •Jiaying smart and knowing what we stay with them," said Phelps. "I think .1n and can't expect to do." 
Sure it's a big game. Just ask the folks at NBC. It's the 
Ray Meyer knows that and so do the IRISH ITEMS: Dayton was the la.~t kind of match-up that gets a close-up box in 1V Guide teams who they play. The key is find­~arne for both DePaul and Notre complete with line-ups, coaches names and a cute little ing a way to take DePaul out of its Dame. DePaul crushed the Flyers pencil sketch of a ba.,kctball player who looks like he's 
rhythm, because once they get H4-64 Wednesday night in UL' Arena dribbling off the page. 
things going their way, they're tough while the host Irish stopped I)ayton Notre Dame versus DePaul in the season finale. Why, 
to stop. They've got all the talent a 70-57 last weekend...Notre Dame It's a match made in ­
team could ask for, and I this year stands second behind Oregon State Walt a minute, wait a minute. Before we get carried 
they've alrea1 y had one loss to wake in field goal percentage with a .56.2 away, there's something we should realize about Sun­
them up and take some of the mark ... Tri-captain Orlando V( ool­day's game. It's not just Notre Dame against DePaul, us not the only school in the country. The best, maybe, but pressure off." ridge, a 6-9 senior, boasts a .66.2 against them, Woolridge against Aguirre or Phelps " The Irish, who possess a 41-24 shooting percemagc good 
against Meyer. Vincentian: "Sec, there you go again! All we hear up series edge over the Blue Demons, enough for third in thl· na­
It's tht· Vincentians against the Holy Cross Fathers, here is 'Notre Dame this,' and !Notre Dame that,' and -found out last year just how tough it tion ...Kelly Tripucka continues to and something tells me no religious crusade has ever is to beat DePaul "on a roll." Meyer lead the Irish in scoring with a IH. 2 bet·n more important. In fact, I decided to pursue this C.S.C.: "And you're jealous, right? You people can't & Co. rolled into South Bend with a averages while Woolridge, Tracy angk and, using all the modern tools available to post­take it because we win so often. Oh, and that we're on 25-0 slate and a No. I national Jackson andJohn Paxson also rate In Watergate journalists, I just happened to listen in on a TV more than "I Love Lucy" reruns. Just don't forget ranking on February 27, 1980. Later double figures. phone conversation between a Notre Dame C.S.C. and a where your head coach came from." that evening the Chicar;o school left, Vint·cntian at DePaul. What follows are excerpts from a Vincentian: "Yeah, and that's bothered some of us for disheartened and wich its record 
**************** 
printed transcript ofthat conversation. The names have a long time. Like last year when you guys got lucky and blemished. Behind tl"le scoring ofall­
! AN TOSTAL !
been withheld to protect the innocent (and my beat us in double overtime." America Kelly Tri~Jucka the Irish diploma.) C.S.C.: "Yeah?" struggled to a reg·.dation 64-64 tie, 
* * 
Vincentian: "I could've sworn I saw Coach Meyer and then grappkd to a 70-70 first ! Sign ups for ! C.S.C.: "So, how's things up in the Windy City?" smile." overtime deadlock. With the home 
! Mass Assassin !
Vincentian: "Not bad, not bad. Things always get a C.S.C.: "Well, like we always say: Once a Domer al­crowd behind them the Irish once little hectic around Lent, but nothing we can't handle." ways a Domer." again played the spoilers, winning 
* * 
C.S.C.: "Same here. Ash Wednesday was a real trip. Let Vinccntian: "Oh, cute. Cute." 76-74 in a second overtime period. 
* Sunday, March 8 * 
me tell you, I had one kid in the confessional who ad­C.S.C.: "So, you really think you're gonna win Sunday, This year, the Blue Demons al­mitted he -(inaudible). huh?" ready have "the monkey off their ! 8:30-10:30 pm ! Vincentian: "Yeah, 1 run into the same thing all the Vincentian: "You bet your(expletive deleted) I do." ,, back" -having lost 63-62 to Old time around here." Dominion on january 10. Meyer has * * 
C.S.C.: "Care to make a little wager on it?" Vincentian: "Name your stakes."
C.S.C.: "What do you tell them?" the second-ranked DePaul club * LaFortune * Vincentian: "To give it up for Lent." primed for the NCAA tournament
C.S.C.: "Ah. _.how 'bout if we give you the Golden ! Ballroom! (Laughter) appearance, the Blue Demons' fifth
Dome if you win and you give us Ray Meyer when, I Vinccntian: "So, you got any tickets for the game?" mean ifwe win?" trip to the play-offs in the last six * * 
; 53.00 fee :
C.S.C.: "Are you kidding? We haven't had a ticket here Vincentian: "Fine with me but what are you gonna do years. 
for weeks. You people only gave us 200." 
with Coach Meyer? You already have Digger." Vincentian: "Really? Wa.o; it that many?" 
C.S.C.: "Yeah but Ray's so lovable and our students C.S.C.: "Yeah, well don't be surprised if a lot of your are so fond ofhim that we'd just like to have him around regular supporters turn on you this Sunday. We have a 
to smile and say a few 'Holy Mans' to rich alumni. lot offriends in Chicago, you know." 
Besides, if he comes here we won't have to feel guilty Vincentian: "Yeah, we saw most ofthem sprawled out anymore about beating him once a year." on Rush Street when you came up here two weeks ago. Vincentian: "Ok, you're on." Your people sure do like to celebrate." C.S.C.: "Great. See you Sunday, right?" C.S.C.: (hotly) "Well, you can't say they aren't ex­Vincentian: "You better believe it. I'll be on the perienced at it." bench with the team. Which one ofyou guys will be on Vincentian: "Then perhaps they need the break we're your bench?" going to give them this weekend." C.S.C.: "Ah-.. well, we're going to have a special guest C.S.C.: "What's this? Do I detect a bit of overcon­on our bench. He's flying in just for this game." fidence in your voice?" Vincentian: "Father Hcsburgh, huh?" Vincentian: "I would hope so. I made it obvious C.S.C.: (smugly) "Well, I'm not really at liberty to enough for even a C.S.C. to pick up." reveal his name at this time, but I can tell you that it's C.S.C.: "And what's that supposed to mean?" not Father Hesburgh." Vincentian: "Oh nothing, really. h's just that you Vincentian: "Oh? One of the Bishops, maybe?" pt·oplc down there arc so busy waking up echoes and C.S.C.: "No, but you're getting closer." polishing your dome that sometimes you forget you're Vincentian: (concerned) "Well, you said he's flying in not the only school in the country." Sunday, right? What time does his airplane land?" C.S.C.: "Oh, we're fully aware of the fact that we're C.S.C.: "Airplane? What airplane?" 
**************** 
COPP MUSIC ''=NTER INC 
430 N. Main So. Bend 233·1838 Take 31 South, turn right one block past Memorial Hospital 
eGuitars •Harmonicas ~etronomes eBanjos • Accessories et.essons 


eRecorders•sheet muSfceRepairs 
IOo/o off anything with this 

, , r 
ad...no 1m1t . 

The Observer Friday, March 6, 1981 -page 12 
r-;;;;;;;iiii~ii""-····-,···-,-·-··-----------~ At Midwest Invitational 




friday afternoon ,,''
,,
,,
,,
,, 

COCKTAIL BREAK 3-8 ,,'' 
. , saturday
mixed drinks 2 for ,-, 1,,' 
,,
pi tchers..$2.50 ,,' DRINK-N-DROWN ,,' DEPAUL DAY
,,,,,, 
,, ..orlando" slammers . S. 75
,,
,,,,
,,
, 

~--------------------------------------J. 
•



Fast start for s-wunnters 
By MICHAEL ORTMAN 
Sports Writer 
The regular season may be over, but for the Notre Dame swimming team, the fun is just beginning. 
Wednesday afternoon, Dennis Stark took his Irish swimmers to Terre Haute, Ind., to compete in the annual Midwest Invitational Cham­pionships, a meet which has tradi­tionally put the Irish in their pla·ce ­usually near the bottom among Mid­west independents. 
That is, until yesterday... 

After the first of the scheduled three days of competition, the Irish found themselves solidly in second each of the last two Midwest Cham­pionships, both coming on the final day of competition. In 1979, then then-freshman Don Casey stunned the rival swimmers from Western and Eastern Kentucky with a time of 
1:57.9. Last spring John Komora, now the team's senior co-captain, earned a top prize in the I00-yard freestyle with a time of:47.31. 
And the fact that both Casey and Komora will compete in those same events again tomorrow can only be good news for the Irish. 
"This is the meet the guys really get psyched up for," said Stark before he left for Terre Haute. "The team usually shaves down, gets fired up and then sets most ofthe season's best times." 
Notre Dame, who finished the regular season with a 9-3 mark, was certainly not considered to be among the favorites, but that didn't bother the Irish swimmers at all. "We look at it as the ultimate chal­lenge," said Komora. "You need top­notch swimmers to push you to do your best, and you always get that at the Invitational. You don't have to finish first to do well because it's all relative to the competitive level of your team. For us, this is just about the top ofthc line." 
Stark took a squad of 19 ( 1 5 swim­mers and four divers) to the Indiana State campus. He had hoped to bring 21, but freshman sensation Dan Flynn, a butterfly specialist, was released from the hospital last Satur­day after treatment for a partially­collapsed lung, and sophomore Lou Bowersox stayed home with a virus. 
"It was just one of those things with Dan," said Stark. "He woke up Wednesday morning and wasn't feeling well. No one knows just how it happened." Flynn was to be a valuable asset at the Invitational along with Casey. Casey posted his best time ofthe season last weekend at Bradley with a 1:57.96 in the 200 fly. Flynn's best this season was 1:58.21. 
Among the nine teams joining the Irish this weekend are three that have competed against Notre Dame already this season. In dual meet competition, the host Irish defeated Illinois State in January, 62-51, and last week, Notre Dame lost at Brad­ley. In December's Notre Dame In­vitational Relays, the Irish finished third with 78 points, 35 ahead of fifth place Wisconsin-Milwaukee. The other six teams are arc Eastern and Western Kentucky, host Indiana State, Evansville, Valparaiso and Oakland College. 
Only five events were completed yesterday, leaving 13 more to be contested today and tomorrow. 
. Track 
continuedfrom page 16 

Domantay in the two-mile who was the Illinois state cross country champion this past fall. 
The field events are slated to begin at 6:30 with the running events at 7:00. Their will also be ex­hibtion races beginning at 6:30. 
The mile is the first event of this meet so those wishing to see Chuck Aragon run in his specialty should be in the hockey dome at the ACC by 
7:00. Th,c distance medley relay, which Notre Dame will run in at the NCAA championships next week, is not an event in regular dual meets, however. 
place with 98 points, 24 behind the leader, Western Kentucky, and 18 ahead of third place Bradley, the team that beat the Irish last weekend, 64-49. 
Considering the fact that Notre Dame has never finished higher than fifth in the 10-team meet, yester­day's feat takes on added sig· nificance. The Irish did especially well in the events that had not been so kind to them during the recently­concluded regular season. 
Sophomore Paul McGowan finished first in the one-meter diving competition, another unique ac­complishment considering the Irish have had only one first place finish in 

The Observer Friday, March 6, 1981 -page 13 

In fencing 


S-weden's Harmstro111 excels 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 
Foreign athletes are an enigma to 
the American mind. 
They can be mocked by such 
characters as Alex Karras because 
their only job is to "keeck a touch­
down" or they can be hated as im­
ported soccer millionaires who can 
make more money in a single game 
than some Americans do in a year. 
For Ola llarmstrom it's been a dif­
ft.·n·nt story as acceptance, respect, 
and the warm friendliness he gives 
and receives has made the sopho­
more transfl·r from Sweden into a 
most delightful addition for Mike 
lkCicco's talt:nted fencing squad. 
Athletes from Scandanavia don't 
appear to often under the Golden 
Dome, hut when they do, their mark 
is n·rtaily ldt. In 197H thl·re was 
Bjorn Vaggo who helped Notre 
Dame to the NCAA title with his 
capturing of thl· foil event in that 
tournament. There was also some 
smart Swede who left his mark on 
Notre Dame athletics (hint: foot­
hall) some ')O odd years ago. hut we 
already know about that story. 
llarmstrom may now he waiting 
in the wings for his chance for glory 
in tht· Swedish athlt:tic hierarchy at 
Notre Dame. 
But first there is that all-important process of a student breaking into thl· spl·cial world of Notre Dame ­for Ola that just means "a very good fencing program, and a very good engineering program." 
"No, I've never heard ofhim." says the handsome blond (naturally) with an emharrased smile when quizzed about Notre Dame's past and Knute Rockne. 
"But you know, when people talk about this thing called the 'Notre Dame spirit' I understand very wdl what they mean. I've only been here ti1r two months but I can see and feel that tht·re is a special atmosphere l1t·re. All kinds of people here took care of me since the first day I was ht•re." 
"Oia has been won over by the team and the reverse is equally true," says DeCicco, "he's set a good example with his hard work and competitiveness that he has dis­played." 
"You havt• to meet him to know just what a great pt•rson he is," says foil captain Ray Benson, "He fit right in with us. It took him about two days to adjust to everything. lie hn:amt• a friend to all of us vt·ry quickly ht·causl· he is always willing to give hdp or by just the way he has pushed us a lot as a friend com­petitively. It's his personality though that wins you over to him." 
Personality or no pt-rs<mality, the guy l'an fenn·. 
Currently as an epedst he holds a I').J mark; a mark that DeCicco says would he somewhere around .2')-J 
or :\0-I he it not for a later enroll­ment and a currem nagging shoul­der injury. Ills road to Notrt· Damt· started in 1979 when the Interna­tional Junior World Championships were held here that summer. Ola caught the eye of DeCicco with his ninth place finish in the competition and from thert· it was a matter of time until he would reunite with that 'special atmosphere.' 
"Bjorn Vaggo is a very good friend of mine," says Ola with his mild ac­cent. "lie told me hack in Sweden what a grl·at plact• this was to he at. lk was absolutely right. I liked Notre Dame when I tlrst saw it and I likt· it even more now." 
Judging from his frit-ndliness an<.! fencing talents, Notre Dame no doubt will come to like him. 
"I think ht"Cause of the so many qualitic:s involved in fencing is why I came 10 like It," says Ola, "You take I 0 people who fence and line them up and what do you see. One is shorr, the other tall, and it goes on. You don't have he good hy just being physically good. There is a lot of concentration that you also have to use. In sports like running or swim­ming you're sort ofown your own to win. In fencing you not only have to know what you want to do on your own, hut what the other competitor is going to do and you have to he al­ways ready to adjust." 
Looking into the future is some­thing Harmstrom ·views with careful scrutiny -and rightfully so, an air of confidence. 
"Naturally, the goal of everybody is to he a national champion," smiles Ola when asked of his future goals. Easier done by some than said by others. But Ola can definitely he classified as the one that can do it. 
"I think he definitely has got na­tional champ potential," says DeCic­co, "he could he in the top five in the l lnited States right now. The cpt•c event is blessed with talent this year around the country. There are at least tlve kids that could he a n";ltion­al champion this year in that event in 
the tournament this year. 
"I'll tell you this though; No mat­ter who'll be fencing epee for us in the tournament ( Ola might be doubtful because ofthe shoulder in­jury) we will not be 'also-rans' in the epee field." 
"Yes, I think I can he champion some day," says Ola in a quiet con­fidence not cocky tone, "hut, you know, I don't know what the situa­tion is very well here and how good everybody in this country is. I'm still learning about so many things since I've come to America. I still have two years after this spring at Notre Dame so there are still a lot of things open about what I can do." 
Whatever course sophomore Ola Holmstrom takes, whether it's his pursuit of a national championship or the pursuit of an engineering career, (he maintains a B average) he, like the other Swedish athletes at Notre Dame, is hound to leave his mark. 




Sports J3ril}ft l 
by Thl' Oh.rt'rr'l'r and Th1• A.rsuuuteJ Pn r.r 
Ken Valdiserri. a 1980 Notre Dame graduate with a B.A. In Communications, has been named Assistant Director ofPublic Rela­tions for the Chicago White Sox, according to new owner Eddie Ein­horn. Valdiserri, the 23-year-old son of Notre Dame Sports Information Director and Assistant Athletic Director Roger 0. Val­diserri, had been working as an administrative assistant in the office of baseball commissioner Bowie Kuhn after graduating last May. 
Innertube waterpolo signups for An Tostat will take place on Sunday at 6:30 p.m. in the Lafortune lobby. All rosters must have from I 0 to 15 players, with a minimum of four women per team. Also, there is a limit of four varsity athletes and a maximum of two waterpolo players per squad. There is a 64-team limit, first come first served, and an entry fee of S6 per team is re­quired. For more information, call Mike ( 8987 or 8708) or Matt (H891 ). 
Tony's Shoe Repair and Moccasins 
We carry 

announces a new location 1023 E. Madison 234-8999 
Hours: 8 am -4:30 pm Mon. -Sat. 
....................................................................... 
: I 
! Special 10% Off ~;
5Ask Tonv about,.?R.2~i9.',.~.t,~;~,9.~U!.P.i~H.9.1al.~.U 
U  Shoe­ ~  
~~~~1~~~~  ~~~::~.,,.,_  .  
~ In stock and special order  repair  

8:18 pm Saturday lev. Robert Griffin, cac 9:00am Sunday Rev. John Melloh, SM 
10:80 am Sunday Rev. Blchud McBrien 
11:18 pm Sunday Rev. John ritzgerald, esc ,'1:18 pm Vespera Rev. llichud McBrien 



Lookin~J for a summer Job? 
CLARKE OUTDOOR SPRAYING CO. Roselle, IL (N.W. Chicago suburb) 
Has a variety of summer positions available beginning in May. Field Inspector, lab tech, sprayer, and costumer service representative 
are all desired All operations dispatched from Roselle ~Good Practical experience for Business & Science majors -No Experience necessary 
-Day & night shifts -Salary range -$3.75 -4.00/hr. 
For more info, contact Ms. Maiers at Student Placement Office 
for on interview on Wed., March 111 
1 


-------------~~--------­
The Observer Friday, March 6, 1981 -page 14 


I 
I 
I 
I I ­
Fencers face Cleveland St. State 



HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
ByJIMLEOUS but some of our other guys came epee team some trouble, but we've Sports Writer through in the early round against got too solid a team to lose to the

ANN. 
Wayne. We had five quick wins ·and other two." 
After two disappointing losses to then the roofjust caved in on us. We The Notre Dame women's squad NCAA champion Wayne State and Il­never should have lost to Illinois. went 0-3 this past weekend, losing linois, the Notre Dame fencing It was the first time in over ten to Northwestern 4-5, Wisconsin 2-7, squad is looking forward to years that the Irish have lost two and Wayne State I-8. The Saint Cleveland State this weekend and matches in one weekend. Mary's lady fencers were much the Great Lakes Invitational on The fencers have a chance to more successful last weekend. They March I4 and I5. The Irish fencers avenge their losses later this mo~th beat Wayne State 5-4, and Northwes­beat Northwestern 2I-6 and Wis­when they face Wayne State in the tern 5-4, while losing a very close consin I9-8; however, they met Great Lakes Invitational. match to Wisconsin 4-5. Both teams their match, losing I 7 -I 0 to Wayne Next week the Irish fencers meet will participate in the AlAW State and 16-I I to lllinois last Satur­Cleveland State, Oberlin College, Women's Qualifiers to be held at day. and Bowling Green. Cleveland State Wisconsin-Parkside later this 
Coach Mike DeCicco commented boasts one all-American epeeist and month. on the losses, saying "We were mis­one gold medal epeeist. Says DeCic­The Great Lakes Invitational will sing Ola Harstrom and Marc dejung, co, "Cleveland State might give our be held on March I4 and I5. Notre 
You told her you have your own place. Now you have to tell your roommates. 
You've been trying to get to know her better since the beginning of the term. And when she mentioned how hard it is to study in the dorm, you said, "My place is nice and quiet. Come on over and study •.vith me:' 
Your roommates weren't very happy about it. But after a little persuading they decided the double feature at the Bijou might be worth seeing. 
They're pretty special friends. And they deserve a special "Thanks:' So, tonight, let it be Lowenbrau. 
Dame will have a tough decision, deciding which two of their three starters to send in each weapon. Coach DeCicco feels that it is a two team race between Notre Dame and Wayne State. Says DeCicco, "We could get two of our men in the finals of the foil, one, maybe two, in the sabre, and we need two epeeists in the finals in order to beat Wayne State." 
Optimism abounds as the Notre 
Dame fencing team winds down the 
season towards the Great Lakes In­
vitational and the NCAA Champion­
ships. 


RAQUETBALL PAIRINGS OPEN TOURNEY 
Cordova(1247)vs. Butler(1210) 
Meakin (1161) vs. Hatfield (1212) 

Wagner (277-,7351) vs. Desaul­
niers(1655) 

Guilfoyle (3553) vs. Wicke (1685) 
Pierce (1424) vs. Snyder"(3678) 
Brown (3264) vs. Stolwyk (8891) 

Regali (1654) vs. Simpson (3340) 
Browne (1760) vs. Minondo 
(6741) 
MEN'S DOUBLES 

Brassard (232-2578), Onufrak 
(233-6891) vs. Pineda (8718). 
Shank (8717) 

O'Brien, O'Brien (232-2835) vs. 
Regali (1654), Power (6718) 


MIXED DOUBLES 

Rosenberger (277-6735). Rosen­
field (287-2577) vs. Harliss. 
O'Brien (232-2835) 

Margaet (6372), Kahali (6872) vs. 
Knue (6179), Reagan (8375) 

Staab (1670), Schmitz (7994) vs. 
Minondo, Minondo (6741) 

Weder, Jenson (6827) vs. Gorski 
(432!). Shank (8717) 

Senica (6762), Canonico (8944) 
vs. Gallagher (6877), Burton 
(1736) 
Brown (3264), Desloge (7905) vs. 
Hanan (3749), Johnston (8637) 
Trucela (6859), Wolfe (3836) vs. 
Larkner (3097), Powers (8546) 
Rice (7674), Kirn (3479) vs. Phil­
lips (1752), Bowland (233-2641) 
Stefanik, Harrell (287-2577) vs. 
Runger, Schmid (3352) 

Roher (1338) , G lea son (6664) v s . 
De vonch (4816), Pooer (6718) 

Ahern(4315) Fu I lner(3104) vs. 
Beaujean (277 -7648) , Pa::ek (277 
0485) 

B ia lek (4588) . But ler (457 9) v s 
Sorapure (6762) ,Daly (8944) 

Cer venak (12 92) , P ierce (1424) 
v s . Herefod (277 -8157), Be II 
(1574) 
Fr. Griffin 
to celebrate 

Masses 

Father Griffin will be celebrating Mass during the nooon hour, throughout the season of Lent. Services will be held in the LaFortune Rathskellar (Nazz), start­ing Monday at I2: I 'i p.m. 
. 

Friday, March 6, 1981 -page 15 







Classifieds 

NOTICES 
PA"o'FiissiONAi: ....... iYPiNG:·······;:~;·;,:, 
papera, 1'-.etc. Tapa tranacripllon. lalt ywr'a Hme low prlc:ee. All work guaran\Hd. aardvark automatic aolu· Ilona. 21H753. 
.Jsa;··········oo:r·:oF:PfiiN:r····ao:oi(s 
bought, aold. -chad. ERASMUS BOOK&. Tun-Sunday, 12-8 1027 E. Weyna (One block aouth of Eddy· Jelferaon inlei'Mctlon) 
.......... iACiRAiSiie'v'i:QAj;j ;;u·No ......... . 
Emergency ioana lor NO lludenla. $20· 1200. Ona parcant intarea\. De in one month. Open 11:30-12:30. M·F. Sue· ment ollaFortna. Finel day to aeniora to apply le Friday, March 13. 
tNsrNiT...cASH...P-'io···;;aii···c-u.ss RINGS $20··5 OR MORE. WE MAKE HOUSE CALLS. 256·2402 
PROFESS'iONA"L··r.,:pjNQ·.··c·~;;~i;~t 
to Notre Dame 272-71123. 
IMPROVE YOUR GRADES! Research catalog· 306 pagea · 10,278 descriptive listing•. Rush $1.00 (refundable). Box 25097C,LOI Angelea, 90025. (213)477· 82211. 
ANTOSTAL MASS ASSASSIN IS COMING limited no. ol players aogn upa--Sun.. March 8 8:30·10:30 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom $3 lee (at 11gn up) 
NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR FOOD AND COCKTAIL WAITRESSES: WAITERS, HOSTESS. AND CASHIER. WOULD LIKE EMPLOYEES WILLING TO STAY THROUGH THE SUMMER. APPLY IN PERSON CAPTAIN ALEXAN· DEA'S MOONRAKEA,3·5 PM WEEK· DAYS,300 E. COLFAX. DO NOT CALLI 
THE OUTCASTS PRESENT 
our second date" 
special gunta· THE EMMANUEL 
SINGERS WALSH HALL MARCH 7 8PM 
S2 admiaslon 

ILOST/FOUND I 
LOiir:C;;;;era-Wed~esday . February 
25. Pleaae call277·7695. Desperate I 
LOST N~tebo~·k ~'ii j~ M~ih Bidg~·ji~~ Boo teat Tuesday Return to 305 Sorln or call8542. 
LOsr oNE oPAL RING IN ANTi6ui: SETIING REWARDIIII IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL MARY AT 4956 (SMC) 
LOST· HP32E calculator ~~~i i~tday morn. If found, call Broan,l773 
LOST. A CANON 35,:,;;;; CAMERA (Giij. 17). PROBABLY LEFT IN THE ACC. THE PICTURES (AND THE CAMERA) HAVE GREAT VALUE TO ME. ­REWARD--CALL MARY, 8085. 
LosT. A woMAN':s· a6'Lii" PEDRE WATCH WAS LOST ON FEB.27 NEAR THE ACC. REWARD IF FOUNDI PLEASE CALL 7942. 
LOST. BLUE DOWN COAT SATURDAY NIGHT AT 914 SOUTH BEND AVE. BLACK HAT IN ONE POCKET. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 1615. 
LOST • SILVER MEDAL ON CHAIN · LEFT IN ANGELA ATHLETIC CENTER ON WED FEBRUARY 25. Specs· double aoded I) sacred heart of Jesus2) Mary woth child Latin acript Family heor· loom CALL 6477 GENEROUS REWARD UPON SAFE RETURN 
-
-

FouNCi~··a;~·;~..:;,;~;-;;;:~j;··i·~;;:··i~··i;;;; 
VotuntHr Servlc• van. Call Mike 1652. ' 
L:o-s;:·:..iN··shic'c:Ve'TiiR'iA·:..rrALIAN 
· GRAMMAR BOOK • email, paperback lost Mond.oy, March 2 . VERY IMPOR· TANT TliAT IT IS RETURNED • REWARD OFFERED. CALl1477 or41· 480& upon finding. 
................................................................ 

WANTED 

Neeo·2-Aioes·:rc;·;;:r:·i:AUD'EFiiiA'i:E: FLA. AREA OVER SPRING BREAK. CALlKATliY 4077 (SMC). 
Nee'i>"Fiioii..tioi:.ie··:ra·ii:ooio.\··;;ofi BREAK. Call David 287-69116 
o;;;;;;;;~~~;~..·~;d'··;i;; ..·i~· ..;;j;·,i~···~~ 
South Jersey lor aprlng break. Will share uaual. Call Fran 8559. Any time. 
oo'vou..i<.Now··sc;i:.i·lioN'E··r;Fiivii-ia FROM MILWAUKEE TO N.D. 31.13 OR ANY WEEKEND? MY FRIEND NEEDS A AIDE. CALL 233-6068 OR 414-962· 8103 
i'i.';;;'"';~~:j~~i~Q····~~~· ..·;~;I./;;p;,~ 
DESPERATELY crave Ft. LAuderdale raya. But first we neede rldal Will share driving & expenses. Cen leave anytime. II travelling that way, pleaH call Molly, Hannah or Ellery at 8008. 
N'~~d·;;;;·~~·a~~~~~·;~;-~j;·;;~ii..;;;~~k: will share expenses etc., call Jill at 41· 4960 
Need ride i~ ..N~;·v·~;;; ~t!v"i~~..~;;~i~9 break, will share expenaes etc., call Janice a\41-4960 
...................... 
Need a ride or riders i'~"c'~j~;;;t;·~-~..~~ Central Ohio lor Spring Break? The Columbus Area Aide Board will at· tempt to match thoae with room with those who need rides. To sign up tor a rode or to otter a ride, call Jamie at 1336. 
Need Ai~ r~ ·N~;jj;""'c·~·;~ii~~: Anywhere Near Charlotte Can Leave 3· 120rAiter. Call277-3579. 
I ~;;; .d~·~~j,:,;·g ~· j;~~ki.~A~~jj~:·r~~~~ 'j~~ 
break. Will haul luggage, etc. to Texas or any point along the way. CALL AC 17381.1758. 
....................... 
NEED 2 AIDES TO HOUSTON AREA~ SHARE USUAL·CAN LEAVE AFTER 11 AM ON 13TH MARCH. CALL 3049 
NEED AIDE FOR ONE RETURNiNG FROM FT. LAUDERDALE FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL 1161. 
In quest ot ride 'io DETROrr ~;~~ t~r break leaving Thurs. or Fri. Please call Sharla .. 3891 
;,;;;;;;j··~,;;~·i·~··M~~~~~h~~~~~~· ~;~~. i~~ 
Spring break. Call Mike, 1780 
I DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO NEW HAVEN, CT FOR SPRING BREAK. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME. WILL SHARE DRIVING AND EXPENSES. PLEASE CALL HEATHER AT8232. 
NEED RIDE TO PHEONIX. WILL SHARE USUAL CALL MARK 3303 
Need ride to Dallas lor break. Gail Joh~ Higgins at 8553 or 1715 and leave a 
message. 
Needed: Rode to Houato~· tor .Spri~g break. Since I received no response to my last plea, I will now share the "unusual" Call Kathy, (41)4291. 
__... ...... -
Neiio"'iiioE"'ro"P'iiii:ADE'i:PiiiA...ofi DELAWARE AREAl! LEAVE AFTER 11th ANYTIME. CAlL ALISON 11138 
N;;;;;;;·;A'id;;·i~·.\·~;·~·~-;;;·;;~~·A·~-i~~;: 
Tx. lor Spring BNak. Call Carole 41· 4875 or Kathy 41-4782. 
;.;;;;i·;;·;;;·i~·u:·~~~~i;iii~~·~;·~i~i;;iiY 
torsr-12 or3r.l3. Cal1John3651 
N;;;;;i..;;;;;;..;·;~;;; ..ii~i·~~··;~··No·;;;; 
break. Call John3651. 

j;i:EA'S'E'iiiii:.P'Mei'iii·~·:i~·;·i;i;'i~Ai: 
lanta lor apring bNak. Wilt ahara drlving and gal Plene call LUKE at 
43311. 

Neeo..i..'RioiiFi"ro..Fi:CiRioA':;:~;;;;; Bay araa.Shara In axp. lor rented car. Call Nancy atll145 or Maureen at4878. 
oe8PAFiAre;·'2·oR"3''ijE'iio'Fiioe·ro LAUDERDALE AREA FOR BREAK. LEAVE ANYTIME AND WILL SHARE USUAL...CALL PAUL(3241) OR MAAK(3243) 
................................................................ 
Must talk girlfriend out of having an ABORTION. Need ride to Northern Jer· sey tor BREAK. Call Mlchaet-1615. 
Need ride to Dallas area tor break. Will share coat and driving. Call Mike at 3105. 
................................................................ 
Needed: Aide lor two to Auatin or San Antonia. Tx. Call Kathy 41-4762 or Carole 41-4875. 
................................................................ 
Have room lor at least one, maybe two riders to Long Island-New York City area. Leaving Friday the 13th before noon, returning Sunday the 22nd. Call Brian at6795. 
wANreo·:·~..~~~~ ..~~;;~ ..~;..;;;~..N'~i~~ Dame vs. Valparaiso basketball program from December22, 1980. Call Tim Neely 1426 or 1715. 
2··c;ifii:s''iie.spfifiATE.i:v'N'fie'ii'Fiio'Es TO TAMPA, FL. AREA. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME AND WILL GLAOL Y SHARE EXPENSES. PLEASE 'CALL: NANCY(5366) CLAAE(5333) SMC. 
Need Aide To DALLASIII For Mid· semester Break Call Dave at3306 

FOR RENT 
F'OR'RENT.....UiiLY'OUCK·L,NG RENT: 
A-GAR FROM $7.95 A DAY AND 7 CENTS A MlLE. PHONE 259-UGLY FOR RESERVATIONS. 
AVAi'LAB'LE"NEXT. SCHOOL..Y'EAA"2 
FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES 234 2626 
.................... For Rent: Large, partially furnished, lour bedroom house. Alarm system available. call283-6702. 

PERSONALS 
0: Why should·y~~ ~~~~..~~~~~~~·;~·ihe Yukon? · 
A: For Ugly Moose On Campus I Sorry, Moose Control, but UMOC is coming I Save your pennies I 
Anyone that crazy MOOSET"~"UG· LYIII 
I DIG THE. UNREAL l.iFE ..BETTER..... 
............................................................... 
Banos for UMOCIII 

Rich Benis·i~ BtG·~~·;;i)(il:viii'"" 
...................... 
........MviAortiE'ii'Al.w;\vs'sl:io........ . 
"a woman'a got to do what a man geta to do" THE OUTCASTS----MARCH 7 WASHHAlLIPM$2 
................................................................ 
WHO LIVES IN 151 MORRISSEY ... IS HE ASSOCIATED WITH BOOKSTORE BBALL... ONLY VINCE AND 80NE KNOW... 
Jell Jelfers le very ugly. 

................................................................ 
"VInyl" Jelfera lor UMOC. 

jane·o, by the time you get this. thingswill be all dilferent. aomatirnas, different Is much better. thinking of you, 
j;;;;:......................................................... tim . 
I'm atunny. Why do you hate Goop? Moe 
<:r;;;;··~j;~;;;;·;~~·~·;;·;~;iy·~·;·ii;~;··;;;;: 
mature anal orifices in Keenan, e.g. Montgomery Ward and Moe, who, tor free, litter the personal column ol that forgettable travesty, the Keenan Rag, with their worthless babbling about their own boring D.B.·Ish lives. You tail under clueless. whatever that means ....... ) 
;.;~i;~·;;y·i~·~iii·,~~·;;;~~-:i~ii':i~ii~~~:· ........ 
.............oPiiN'I:'oooii·:ra·si:F............ . 
OPEN A DOOR TO SLF OPEN A DOOR TO SLF OPEN A DOOR TO SLF every night this week 

LOV"ELEY'i~·-~·~t:i·,iii·,··pe:r·e··LoV·ELEY 
lorUMOC. 

p~~j;k;''':;;;;~:·;;i;~···;;;~~;;;;···i~k~~·-~;~ 
promoosecuousl 

c~~i·;~i:·~·;~;:·~i;~y-~·c;~~i·;~i ......... . 
............... FioN'.t:Ui i'st'Ro:Kv:.......... . 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY to youII II 

22 is coming up last II How about a road trip to Maryland??? ALL must have a picture party at Brunoslll 
MTBiromMD 
seN'iO'ii'Foii'i.i'.t:i.:'R'iiGis'ifi:.\:rio·N······ SENIOR FORMAL REGISTRATION 
iiiis'wfiE'K''O'Ni.:vi ................ . 
THIS WEEK ONL Yl 

·--Lalortu~~·~~·d·L~M~~~~~~ .. ... 11 :30 to 1:00 ... 
DON:r''M'iss'rHe'c'iii:iiiiRAT.IO'N"t""""' 
RUN..iMMe'oiATELV..TO..l~FORTUNE 
OR LeMAN$ AND BUY YOUR SENIOR FORMAL BIDIIITHEAE IS NO TIME 
AEMAININGITHOSE WHO DO NOT WILL BE FORCED TO LIVE UNDER THE UNBEARABLE CURSE OF 
'SENIOR FORMAL BLUES". A FATE FIT FOR NO MAN OR BEAST! ASK 
YOUR FAVORITE MAN OR BEAST NOWIII 
AUNIAUNIAUNI ASK IASK !ASK I BUYIBUYIBUYI 
................................ MARDI GRAS !I MARDI GRAS II 
·NEW ORLEANS STYLE· 

Devine & Broussard David Bartholome Partridge, LeDoux, Gurgin, Keyes, O'Grady, & Meehan SamDismond Daly & Kornick Gotchen & Muench Ginocchio, MacKrell, Bertolini, Franken, Winking, & O'Conner Paul Kosidowski Barry Stevens Karen Yaeger Dietrich & Bourjally Touhy, McConnel, & Johansen Elisa Dalton TomKovacev1c Peter Lochteleld Brauwielor, Dressel, Ellis, Hunkler, & Tranel WHAT DO ALL THESE PEOPLE HAVE IN COMMON? SEE THEM IN THE NAZZ MUSIC COMPETITION, FRIDAY, MAACH61111 
....................... 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY SCRIB 

I told you that everyone would know that today is your birthday and 1 was right. So have a great day. 
Guess Who? 
........................................ 

attention womenlll I am trading birthdays with my roommate "kwiss" quinn. march 8 he will become 21 and august 10 I will become IS &Jain. if you would like to make his new bitrhday a 
o~;yi···o;~i;;i;.'"'Eii:E';;ii.t:N;:ii'"ij'E\i'EiR 
FORGET I 
.iE;;F':ie.FFefis·;··~;~:·b~i-·ii;;'iJMCiC 
cac:ampeign Ia lor amateurs only. 
.:i~:;,;·:b~-~~·i;;;;i·~;~?-:im':iE'F;;eRs 
lorUMOC 
;;;:;;;;.:;:·i:;iiY:o~~·.;-;<i·a·;i;;~:·a;;;-d: 
Commlaloner l.egz, Frank C.han... l.et'a maka Albert's a -kly .-qui,. men\. 
liAA"v"'iiE'TH'"sTiiR'L:iNG..~;i;i···AN'NE 
Filii< deserw more racognitlon. AN you tiataning Bookatore diaciplea? 
o~~;;;·;s:&:;:··· ........................................ 
Congratuletlona on tha rallying thle -klFine job, boy I Love, Ann Marie (Curly) 
j~'h~......................................................... 
Good luck Saturd.oy nightl That's when you'll ahow the world whet I've known all a tong-you're a champI 
Katie 
cot.iG'iiA'ru'i.Arioi-i·s···..·aOOi<'sroRe COMMISSIONER AND NEWLY AP· POINTED RAil one otthe .. goddesses" 
fi~o;;~· ..:···"~"·i;..·y~~···;;;~~~·.;· ..ii·~;;;~ 
enough attention already, you crlp. Happy 21st and we'll drink one lor the Glmper. 
o;~·;~d·:r;·;,y~:....................................... 
It was a real pressure, I mean. pleasure working with you. Congrats; no one deserved it more. 
Brian and C.C. 
M·~·~-·~i-Noi·i<;;~··:i:s:··~~..i-;;;.··~~~-~~;; she'll be all yours lor lite. 
.r·He··oN·Lv·wo·M·EN:s··iMPROV'COM: 
EDYGROUP the outcasts our second date 

o~~:i··i;·~·~~'kY:·~~i~··i~~·o·i~·;.·,~···oi~'ki;; 
lor UMOC. Dickie Is Icky. Dickie. Dickie. Dickie. Dickie. 
1 ;:;·p~~i~~~·;;ii;;·;~;..;;i;i·h·~-;;~i;~i.'li~i~ lor Dickie, don't be picky. 
j().\j:jifi''i.l;;Gliiiov·;;oii..ui.ioc.oiioP OFF DONATIONS AT 311 B.P. JOAN WILL MAKE YOU GROAN 
I H~pp~'"iiirt';;;;;~ ..N~~~j"'jj:~"'t,;;;;'~"; 
blglhllle) 19years since you werejusl a 
little scribble in your mother's eye. En­
joy and watchoutllllll 
Love, Dickie . P.S. Upchuck lor YOU KNOW WHO lor 
UMOC.(ask Mike the "Dill" tor the rhymonganswerat6753) MichaeiLEVCHUCK 1 t L . i land New York. s rom ong Is ' GEORiiE:'"'" ...................................... .. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY YOU WILD AND CRAZYDILLONITEIIIIIIII LOVE, SIS AND FOREIGNER 
s~;;;~·~i·ih~~~i~-;~~i~i·;~,:,;i~·:ii4·s·Mc 
Frosh Register: Scalping Cowboys Chariot Racing Football Watching Talk Shows StarGazing General Hospital Scoplng Walking T & F the Villa Hopscotch Jumping Out 01 Cakes Gyrating Mudwrestling Submarine Racing And they talk about a typocal SMC chicl 
CARROLL HA.t:i:'iit.P;;:.;:·;;ou'Fi'roii'..\v AT IRISH COUNTRY (on the corner ot 
N.D. Ave. and S.B. Ave.) FAOM3·7pm. 3 DAAFTS·$1.00; PITCHEA·$2.00. 
DILLON HOCKev· is.Tiir:· iiEsT iN 
BOTH THE SOUTH AND THE NORTH OUADS. DILLON WILL ONCE AGAIN RULE OVER ALL IN THE CAMPUS HOCKEY CHAMPIONSHIPS. DILLON 
DIATBALL No 1.. ......... .............................. MILWAUKEE WAS ..... GA.EATII 
ST LOUIS, HERE WE COME IIIII 
Studs? When you learn to play quarters. The foxes 
iiRuce.oiiK'L:E:vANo·;;;ARi<.Rusr:····· THANK YOU, THANK YOU, THANK YOU I ELIZABETH CLAY 
.................... 
K'wiei<i:·-v~~..;;;~;··;;;;;··;;i·;;..~;;;j; 
Sat nile. Am ljullanolhar notch In your lipatlck caM? P.S. ABUSE, yout turn 
again. 
ii;.......................................................... 
Manirera play total olfe,.. notde,.,..;-Menlrara acora tha goatel Manlrar 
o;u;;;·...................................................... 
Don't kid youi'MII -It waan't thai gnuttSq-1 Kwtckl P.S.I.etll ring 
i'iii;V:....................................................... • 
Happy 11-d.oyl Don't party too much, 

or you may end up on tha CHow Chart 
(and take tha lead ij 
Kwickl P.S.HIEdl 
.<.............................................................. 
aran Korowickl turna f9 on Sunday 

~~·l~~;;;~~:·iji~i·~~ii~'(;:i?""'''"'"''""'''" 
M·;~;;;;····e;·i~j;····i~·;;;;;· ..·~~~~ii'i~ii~~: watch lor aMEI'J.dmentsl . 
s~~;iy·Fi~~·~~~:w~;;;~~·:·:·.................... ·· 
Thanks lor the -ekend . Remember: I make my own lanes ...and confidence. 
;:~·;;;~·;;~~-.;~~-;;;;~..i~ii'~~d..~;~·h~~-k ol man-I am ready I Get psyched tor excited soybeans and jiggling jellol Let-tuce meet under the dome at the seduction hour Wednesd.oy. Dego 
SULLY FOR UMOC 
F·~~~;;-~i··,;~i-·iii·:r·~..;;;;;·i~ii.ii~i;·;;~;;; ancient CAMPBELLonlalll Right here at Notre Dame... the only one ot hla kindlll OTIS CAMPBELL...OTIS CAMPBELL...OTIS CAMPBELL...OTIS CAMPBELL OTIS tor UMOC...AEMEMBEA: Otia Ia the GROTESTill 
c:~~~·i_. .............................. . 
Have a happy birthday and stay sober. Penguin plus 2 
Jell Jellera ~ ao.~g·~:·h~-d~~~~;i ~~~~ deserve UMOC . 
0~k~;~ .......~~........jh~ .......;d·; ol 
campus...ASSASSINS Is comingIIIli 
..................\~·;:~~i;·,·~·;;;·~i~····· 
MASS ASSASSIN 

Will you be one or the 512? 
Sign up: Sunday, March a 
When:8:30·10:30 p.m. 
Where: La Fortune Ballroom 
Run: March23 until An Tostal 
Fee of $3 Includes gun and MASSIVE 
PARTY... day alter break. Be a Mass As· 
sassonllll 
.................... .......................................... 
TO TOBY THE MR. AMERICA 
REJECTIIIILOVE YOU PASSIONATE· 
LY!IITHISWEEKENDWILLBEGREAT 
AND BREAK TOO!II LIFE IS EX: 
CLAMATOAYIII FROM THE ROVING 
DAY EDITOR Ill · 
oiiAR···MEGAN .... iiE:r···A···ciRi;;···0;..,; REALITYIll TAKE IT EASY AND DON'T GET NERVOUS Ill LOVE YOU LOTS\ II 
DETROIT CLUB PARTY 

4:00 CAMPUS VIEW APT. 302, 54585 
IRISHWAY BAING A FRIEND NO CHARGE 
Jill, So sorry I mossed your borlhday. Hap­PY belated22ndl Cathy 
pfio euiit<ii FoR ui.ioc .. 
PRO BURKE FOR UMOC 
PRO BURKE FOR UMOC 
cor.iGRArul.l.rloNs oii:i.oN iioci<~ EYIII NICE CALL DUllIIII 
C·MONSTEAS, HERE'S THE PERSONAL OF THE WEEK .... IT'S WEEKEND BUT DON'T BE WEAK IN THE END .... CAN YOU FOLLOW THAT ONE??? LATER ON 
THEONEANDONLYMAN ' 
UNDERDOG. S.O.SI SWEET POLLY PURE BREAD ("SPP") 
Rex ·~~a·o·~~;; ............ · · .. 
Find yourselves a couple ol real 
girlfriends. We know you two deserve 
better. 
xxxxxxxo 

Me lor UMOC; Patrick McDivitt tor UMOC 
Michael "Good Times" Did~;;;;;~i~~ drools on hia pillow while sleeping. Guess whet else ? 
t<~i;;;·~·~~:i v~~ ij;;i·ii~~~iihi ............. . 
Need ride to O:H·~;; .. ·~~· 4~i3iitghi leaves at4:15.Call Art7096 
M.P. Drayer: Fallen thr~~gh ~~~ :,;;j~~ dowa lately? Spring Break advice· Don't fall lor 40 year old captains with 40 loot yachla. 
M.J. Joanle 

BILL BOOiNS...................... . 
IT'S OVEA·-GOOO BY. 
success. just call 1647 or stop in our . room (407 grace). 
························· 
Mary Frances and Kink, Do you ever read these? II so. stay tuned. Die·Die 
p.s. Why doesn't anyone ever call me anymore? 
cH.AlirAuauA'is·c:c;Mioo··;:o·N':o·.·..··· 
.... coi;;E:i:.iiou.se.................. . 
COFFEEHOUSE COFFEEHOUSE COFFEEHOUSE 

I L~F~;i~·~~· si'~d~~i Colleeho~~ 
GRAND OPENING FRIDAY Ill 

··········· · ·ziaa·v:riiiio ·· .................. 
ZIBBYTEBO ZIBBYTEBO This weekend In the Colteehouse. 
Brian Callaghan, 
Congrats agaln.And, yes, your per· 
sonallzed personaliS coming. To your 
roomoe: Did your phone happen to ring a\4:00 Thurs. morn? 
Love ya both. 
Di 
Today, we mou;~·i·h~..j~~~·~·;·;:·~~j~j~ Axe. A hard man, who was nevertheless lair. You have heard the reports trom the Debeloan Sector that he was slain In an ugly duel. His opponent -the evil Colonel Zero Max -who tell at the hand ol a vengeful Sinsemllllan even as he slew Axe. The battle was fought by two brothers, separated In their youth, each hard and efllclenl-but Max had been lured to the dark aide. Axe would not take his brother's lite, and he would not be persuaded to join the rebellion against Control. And 10, he sacrificed hlmaell. But his brother was repaid In lull by the ruthleas Sinaemllllan ... 
-----------·~---------------------------~~--­
-

Friday, March 6, 1981 -page 16
SRQrts 
For Saturday 
Bengal Bouts'finals set 
By GARY GRASSEY cause." Ringside seats are $3.00 and AssistantSportsEditor general admission passes (lower arena) are 12.00. 
For the first time in 51 years, the THE MATCHUPS: Notre Dame Bengal Bouts are not 132-POUNDS -Rob Rivera (Sr. under the guidance of Dominick }. Sante Fe, N.M.) vs. Tim Broderick 'Nappy' Napolitano, but the spirit of (Jr. Pittsburgh, Pa)-Rivera is the the 73-year-old Italian legend who defending champ in this division and began the tournament in 1931 is perhaps the most talented fighter in alive and fighting. I the tourney. Nicknamed 'los manos 
Tomorrow night in the main de piedras' (hands of stone), Rivera arena at the ACC, the finals of Nap­combines lightning hand and foot py's Bengal Bouts will be staged to speed and all kinds of power. raise funds for the Holy Cross Mis­
Broderick is inexperienced, but has sions of Bangladesh, an organization 
been impressive in two decisive 

that has received more than wins during the week. 
$500,000 from the Notre Dame 140-POUNDS -Fritz Fisher (Sr. 
Boxbg Club's efforts in the last half Fairview, Ohio) vs. Mike Mar­
century. The ten-bout card begins at tersteck (Jr. Naperville, Ill.) -The 
7:30 with the 132-pound finale. top two seeds, respectively, in this 
''\Ve're on our way towards our class are strong form boxers. Mar­goal of $20,000 for the Missions," tersteck is probably more powerful said first-year bout director Dr. Ric­physically, but Fisher is a polished hard Hunter. "We need a big turnout fighter who knows how to score and from the people of South Bend and protect himself. ·. the student body. 
"If the Notre Dame students are 145 POUNDS-Dan Mohan (Sr. truly a socially aware group, then Streator, Ill.) vs. Tom Bush (Jr. San they should try to buy a ticket be­Francisco, Cal.) -Mohan is the cause all proceeds from admission second of four returning champs go to the Bengal Missions," he con­and Bush is a two-time runnerup. tinued. "Even if somebody objects Both are extremely powerful to the sport, buying a ticket would punchers with good ring skills. just be a donation to a very worthy Mohan packs his power in the right 
LadyIrishfall to BallState 
By CRAIG CHVAL 
Sports Writer 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -The Notre Dame women's basketball team learned last night that there is no such thing as a moral victory. 
The Irish did everything right against Ball State in the first round of the Indiana AlA W Division I tourna­ment except win. The Cardinals, who pasted Notre Dame, 79-61 last month, escaped with a 76-69 ver­dict. 
"This is an unbelievably tough loss for the kids," said Notre Dame coach Mary DiStanislao. "They busted their tails, did everything they were asked to, and they still can't get a 'W'." 
Indeed, the Irish executed Mary , D's game plan to the letter. They had three players -Shari Matvey, Jenny Klauke and Molly Ryan -in double figures, and a fourth, Tricia McManus, with nine points. They also solved their two biggest tor­menters, turnovers and sluggish starts. Notre Dame coughed the ball up just 13 times in the contest, and scored the game's first eight points, en route to a 31-31 halftime dead­lack. 
A 1 5-6 Ball State spurt to open the second half proved to be the dif­ference. The Cardinals shot a wicked 65 percent from the floor in the second half, with most of the shots launched in the vicinity ofMuncie. 
"We're not the kind of team that can score points in bunches, so we have to control the tempo for 40 minutes," said a dejected DiStanis­lao. "Except for that spurt to begin the second half, we did exactly what we wanted to do." 
Ball State threatened to turn the game into a track meet with its tor­rid fast break, but Notre Dame refused to fold. The heroes for the game Irish were many. 
Matvey led all scorers with 21 points, but the most inspired Notre Dame performance was turned in by McManus. Playing with a severe chest cold, the 5-11 junior forward grabbed a game high 13 rebounds and added nine points. She also chipped in two assists and a pair of blocked shots. 
"Seeingan effort like that go down the drain tears you up," said DiS­tanislao. "Tricia showed me a lot out there tonight-I was very proud of her." 
Notre Dame also got a boost from 
hand, while Bush, a southpaw, can put anyone away with his left. This one will be close. 
150 POUNDS -John Donovan (Jr. Pittsburgh, Pa.) vs. Mike Mul­ligan (So. Omaha, Neb.) -Donovan is one ofthe strongest fighters on the card with a crisp left jab and the ability to hurt people with both hands. Mullif·m has rebounded with skill and confidence from a broken jaw sustained in last year's semifinals courtesy of graduated four-time champ Tony Ricci. 
157 POUNDS -Jim Mlladenik (Sr. Gary, Ind.) vs. Dave Lockard (Sr. Pittsburgh, Pa) -Another two­time runnerup, Mladenik may have appeared in the best form of his career in Wednesday's semifinal round, stopping Mark Nasca 20 seconds into the third round. Mladenik's speed and power will be matched with 'Spider' Lockard's southpaw style that features an imposing left-hand lead. 
163 POUNDS -Tom McCabe (Gr. Bethesda, Md.) vs. Chris Digan (Sr. Hyde Park, N.Y.)-This may be the first time the 6-2 McCabe, a defending champion, has been paired with a fighter of equal height and reach. McCabe, a strong lefthan­der who relies on his reach, faces the rangy Digan and his repetoire of long left jabs and the ability to slip and block punches. 
170 POUNDS -Greg Brophy (Jr. Fort Dix, N.J.) vs. Rob Verfurth (Jr. Annandale, Va) -Brophy is the top-seed and likes to bring the fight to his opponents. The 5-8 fireplug will bob and weave until he makes his opponent miss and then attack in combination a Ia Roberto Duran. Verfurth has exhibited a superior left jab and ring know-how in his first two fights and will have a dis­tinct reach advantage. 
177 POUNDS -Mike Burke (Jr. 
Lincolnwood, Ill.) vs. Jim Burlebach 
(So. Glen Ellyn, Ill.) -This rematch 
of last year's final, which tht: south­
paw Burke won by unanimous deci­
sion, should be a dogfight. Burke 
shows tremendous body-punching 
power and intelligent ring 
demeanor. 'Burly' Burlebach pos­
sesses upper body strength and 
prefers the left jab to keep his rivals 
off-balance. 
HEAVYWEIGHTS -Neal Elat­trache (Sr. Pittsburgh, Pa) vs. Mike Walsh (Jr. Sioux City, Iowa)-Elat­trache, a 1977 winner at 190 pounds, returns to action after a one­year layoff from competition. With good ring movement, Elattrache is a scorer, more than a knockout artist and can be tough to hit. If anybod; can find Elattrache, it's Mike Walsh, a strong, toe-to-toe style slugger who can take and throw a punch wi~h equal aplomb. 
SUPER HEAVYWEIGHTS .,­Scott Zettek (Sr. Elk Grove, Ill.) vs. Mark LeBlanc (So. South Bt·idge, Mass.) -These two 240-pound defensive linemen from the Notre 

Tbefinals ofthe BengalBouts wtiI be held at the ACC tomor­row night beginning at 7:30. See story ibis page. (photo by Chris Salvino) 

Irish host Northern Illinios 
By MATT HUFFMAN margin will be more than five 
points," remarked Piane. "That is 
assuming that everyone runs up to 
Tonight, the Notre Dame indoor capabilities, ofcourse. It should be a track team will make 'its final ap­very exciting meet." pearance of what can only be N.I.U. has an outstanding perfor­termed a very sucn. ssful season as mer in one Glen Davidson. David­they host Northt:t'h Illinois at the son, in addition to being an ACC. excellent 60-yard dash man, won 
The Irish have a virgin-like record both the triple jump and the long at home, having won a dual event jump in last weekend's Illini Classic. against Bowling Green and a five­Davidson could go a long way in way meet back on Jan. 30. Tonight helping the Huskie cause ifhe is able will be the culmination of a season to sweep these three events. for .1 team that includes five runners Other Northern stars in the qualifying for the NCAA champion­sprints include Wayne Rohy in the ships, an impressive showing in big high hurdles and Chris Hilvert in the meets such as the Central Collegiate 600-yard dash. Hilvert's I:10.6 is just Conference, and an overall one-tenth ofa second offthe qualify­
re_it•Venation ofthe track program. ing time for the NCAA's Northern Illinois, a member ofthe In addition to Davidson in the M:d-American Conference, has a jumps, Mike Boyle has gone 16-4 in strong team and showed it last week 
Sports Writer 
the pole vault in this indoor season. at the Illini Classic. "They have a 
Dan Volkey has recorded a 4:06 in heck of a team," commented Notre 
the mile this season for the Huskies Dame head coach Joe Piane. "They 
and that time is all the more im­showed good consistency and I'm 
pressive when you consider he is sure they'll give us a good meet." just a freshman. Also included in the The Huskies should test the visiting distance core is Greg 
I 
strength of the entire Notre Dame
:-.-fissy Conboy, who scored all ofher Dame football team will:keep tomor­See TRACK, page 12 
team. "I don't think that the winning
six points in the second half, and row's crowd on its feet for this main· registered three thefts. Klauke, who event. Zettek is a 1:977 Bengal
Inside SPORTS: 
scored 2 7 points against the Car­champ who stands 6-5 and can put dinals in February, finished the night anybody away with one pun•~h. 11he 

Major college upsets 
Beth Huffman 
with 14 points and 1 0 rebounds af­reach advantage belongs to Zettek, 
ter just two points and three as LeBlanc is listed at 6-2. However,
and 
rebounds in the first half. Ryan LeBlanc has super . upper body Upsets abounded last night in college basketball, as many post­
chipped in 12 points. development and power ·and season conference tournaments got under way. The biggest shocks 
"There's not a whole lot you can teenage experience in the Golden 
occurred in the opening round of the Southeastern Conference say after a game like that," offered Gloves. If Zettek is ;forced toi the 

! I Frank LaGrotta 
. 
Tournament in Birmingham, Alabama, where Mississippi defeated 
DiStanislao. ''We've been taking our ropes by LeBlanc's inside tactics, the lOth-ranked Tennessee, 81-71, and then unheralded Vanderbilt
prevtew 
lumps lately, but tonight the girls taller man will lose some of his stunned seventh-ranked Kentucky, 60-55. Fourth-ranked LSU 
sucked it up and played a hard­leverage and reach'capabililty. Zet­survived, though, beating stubborn Florida, 85-73. In the Big East 
nosed, knock down, drag-out ball tek's task will be to keep LeBlanc on



the Sunday clash 
Tournament in Syracuse, N.Y., lowly Providence surprised con­
game." the defensive in the middle of the ference champion Boston College, 67-65, while Villanova easily beat 
The Irish, who lost their seventh ring with that long left jab and second-place Connecticut, 65-54. Finally, in East Lansing, Michigan 
with Depaul, 
straight to fall to 9-16, close their follow-up combinations. Any punch State toppled eighth-ranked and Big Ten leader Iowa in an overtime 
season at the Northern Lights Invita­could be the last ope and in the tradi­thriller, 71-70, allowing Indiana to move into a first-place tie with the 

page 11 
tional at the University of Alaska­tion ofthe Bouts, this gridiron match 
Hawkeyes by virtue oftheir 69-66 victory at Illinois. -AP Anchora~e. March 20-22. should be a classic. 









