• • .Pippin -page 7 

VOL. XV, NO. 8S an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THIIRSQAY .FEBRUARY 5. 1981 

City reacts to strip-search 
ByJOHN M. HIGGINS 
SeniorStaffReporter 
TIT\: South Bend Police probation­ary officer who strip-searched eight Saint Mary's students last weekend has routindy strip-searched suspects brought to the city jail since mid-December, Tbe Obsen1er learned yesterday. 
Police Chid Daniel Thompson said the female officer had never hn·n instructed that the strip-search of pnsons arrested for mis­tkmeanor offt·nses is contrary to dt·partmcntal policy. 
Thompson explained that the of­lkt·r had het·n a guard at the Indiana Statt· Reformatory wlwrc among her dutks was the strip-searching of prlsont·rs and visitors. Aftt·r she was hin·d hy the South Bt·nd Police Department in Dcccmhcr Thompson said, sht· was never in: formnl of tht· tlt·partml'nt\ policy regarding tht· searchingof prisont·rs. 
City Attornt·y Richard Hill ex· ~lainnl that all suspects an· suhjet·t to a "weapons pat-down" during tlwir prot·cssing at the jail. In­dividuab ac(.'ltsed of committing fdonics, however, arc strip­searcht·d. 
"Although tht· written policy of tht· dty provides that a strip-search can he conductt•d, typically, the ac­tual prat·tice in a misdemeanor case is that only a weapons-pat is con­du<.·tt·d," Hill said. 
"That's the way they did it ( st•arch) at the state prison, that's the way she's been doing it; she did it the same way Friday night," Thompson said. "Probably every search conducted by this recruit was nmducted in the same way." He estimated that the offi<.·er has searched 12 to IS prisoners since she was hired. 
The students were arrested Inside Corby's Tavern, 1026 Corby Street, last Friday evening for possession of an alcoholic beverage by a minor, a misdemeanor charge. They were transported to the South Bend City Jail where they were booked and 
''I'm not going to say anything that might jeopardize their case." Another attorney, Michael Cotter, refused to comment 
City Prosecutor Michael Barnes said that he could not forsec any cir­cumstances in which the charges might he dismissed. 
Thompson speculated that local media reaction to the incident was due to acute puhlic awareness of current litigation involving strip­searches. These suits allege that Chicago police routinely searched women arrested for traffic violations and other misdemeanors in view of malt-officers and security cameras. 
"People immediately associate this incident with that Chicago case," Thompson commented. "But we've never had any complaints. We weren't even aware she (the probationary officer) was doing it." 
Hill defended the department's strip-searching policy. We categorize this certainly as an unfor­tunate situation and perhaps cmbarassing to the individuals ar­rested," he said. "In fact there is a need during certain arrest situations for a strip-search to be conducted. We have found that people have had ~rugs and knives not even picked up tn a weapons pat-down. 
"The officers have to usc their discretion." Hill concluded. " This certainly was not a situation in which a strip-search was needed. Nevertheless, the search is certainly a precaution that is certainly needed for security." 
Espionage charge 
Dwyer awaits verdict 
By MARY AGNES CAREY 
StaffReporter 
Cynthia Ow1 cr, a U.S. journalist still hdd captive in Iran's Evin Prison, has apparently been tried on charges of espionage with a verdict promised possibly Monday, accord­ing to Swiss Diplomats serving as in­
termediaries  for  Mrs.  Dwyer's  
release.  
State  Department  Officials,  

however, termed the proceedings a "hearing." hut declined any further comment 
Modesto Argcnio, reporter for The Buffalo Evening News, said Swiss Diplomat Flavio Mcroni judged the six-hour procedure before Iran's revolutionary court "correct and proper as fur as we can sec." Argenio said that according to Swiss sources Mrs. Dwyer had been charged hut they were uncertain about what sort of sentence, if any, she would receive. 
~rs. Dwyer's releJse circulated by 7be Buffalo Evening News has raised 38,273 signatures, all sent to President Reagan, in an effort to free her. 
Colleen Dwyt·r explained almost 
80~ :'ID-SMC students have signed pettttons for her aunt's release, but she stated that only 18 out of 300 petitions distributed through Notre Dame's Hall President Councils have returned. "I hope this week that people grow more concerned about my aunt's release," she said. "We really appreciate what's been done so fur -it means so much to our­family -but those extra signatures would mean so much more," Ms. 
Dwyer said. Colonel Thomas Schaefer, one of the recently released 52 American hostages, said he "felt sorry she was a woman over there alone," and advised Mrs. Dwyer to "keep her chin up" because "she'll get out sooner or later." 

Stepan Center bas become a maze ofplywood as students build tbeirbootbsfortbe upcomingMardiGras. (photo by Racbe/8/ount) 
China offers adventure for lone travelers 
By EDITH M. LEDERER 
Associated Press Writer 
SHANGAI, China -A few words of advice to anyone traveling alone in China: be path:nt, be adventurous and don't forget to pack your 1940s dancing shoes. 
Because the Chinese prefer tourists to sec the coumry in groups, it's difficult to get an individual travel visa. But the extra red tape to go-it-alone is worth the wait. 
While no official figures are available, group tours average about SIOO a day per person. But in­dividual tourists can easily get by for about $SO a day, with the added htxury of doing what they want





"We don't know about any sen­
searched. They were then taken to 
when they want to do it.
tence. We don't know if it could be
the women's facility ofthe St. Joseph 
Consider the luxury of walking
County Jail where they were again prison, or ifshe could be ordered to 
along the Great Wall in Peking and 
hooked and eventually released on leave the country, or be in prison 
University anticipates 
having only Chinese in your
hail. and then leave the country," Meroni 
pictures, not hordes of tourists
said.
"The male officer (at the city jail) 
blocking your view and spoiling the
According to Argenio, a story 

12% tuition increase
directed her (the probationary of· 
atmosphere.
reported by the British Broadcasting
fleer) to search the students," Hill 
And what about the delicious
Company ( BBC) suggested that Mrs.
said. "By search he meant a weapons 
thought of sleeping late one mor­
Dwyer, along with three other
pat-down. She took that to mean a 
ning and not feeling guilty about
naturalized Americans still held in 
By LOUIS BREAUX 
strip-search. She really didn't under­
skipping a trip to Shanghai's In­
stand what was expected of her." Iran, might be released in exchange 
StaffReporter 
dustrial Exhibition Hall. Or eating
Hill stated that the incident would for Iranians arrested in England last 
only one 10-course Chinese meal in-
The cost of attending Notre Dame is likely to increase mext year
be investigated. "We're really taking August in an anti-American 
when the Board ofTrustees meets in May. Budget proposals for fiscal 
steps to makt• sure it it doesn't hap­demonstration. 
1982 arc being worked on to present to the Board.
pen again," Hill said. "We intend to Mrs. Dwyer's husband, John, 
During the past few years, the Board ofTrustees has been consistent
have it fully investigated and will stated, "We don't know what it 
in increasing the tuition. Vice-President of Business Affairs Thomas
present a report to the Board of means. I'm stunned." 
Colleen Dwyer, the captive's 
Mason explained,"If you look at the increases over the years, you'll
Public Safety. It may very well in­
clude recommendations from Chief niece and a Saint Mary's sophomore, 
find that they have generally been consistent with the rising inflation 
stead ofthe usual two.
rate. I see no reason for a change in this philosophy."
Thompson to assure that this kind of stated, "There's nothing more than 
Unlike many other communist
what we know now. My uncle looks 
Ifthe University continues this trend ofprevious years, students can
problem will not occur again." 
countries, China puts few restraints
good. He's just holding on," she said. 
expect an increase in tuitions and fees of 12 percent or more. This
Hill said the release of the report 
on where tourists can wander, and
"I'm praying she'll be released next 
would amount to about $800.
to the public would depend on pos­
there is almost no feeling of being
week," Ms. Dwyer added. Mrs. 
Early reports hinted a possible increase of 2 5 percent in total cost. 
sible litigation regarding the inci­
under surveillance. The
dent. Dwyer, a freelance journalist, 
However, Mason said, "I do not think an increase ofthat proportion is 
bureaucracy often seems im­
traveled to Iran last year in hopes of 
going to happen. I do not think it will be considered."
Attorneys for several of the 
penetrable but perseverance usually
selling articles upon her return to 
The current tuition for students is $4,630 and the fees for room,
studt·nts declined to speculate upon 
pays off with taxi drivers, airline offi­
the United States. She was arrested 
board, and laundry amount to S1,765. Tuition and fees make up 40
the possibility of a suit against the 
cials, the China Travel Service and
May S, shortly after an April 24 
percent ofthe University's income.
city regarding the incident. "There 
all other authorities.
rescue attempt for the former 52 
The major considerations in the making ofthe budget and the even­
is a misdemeanor charge pending 
The first og,.~tacle is getting a visa. 
American hostages failed. 
tual increase in tuition are the yearly salary increases, the cost of
against them," John J, Muldoon, 
Argenio explained a petition for 
utilities, food, and supplies.
father of one of the students, said. 
See CHINA, page4 

---------------~----~--~--------­

by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Afive-memberjuryofMarine officers began delibera­tion yesterday in the court-martial of Marine Pfc. Robert Garwood, who is accused of collaborating with his captors during almost 14 years he spent in Vietnam. Garwood, 34, described by one for~er prisoner of war as a "white Vietnamese," also was charged w1th maltreating a POW by hitting him in the ribs after a group of fellow captives killed the prison camp's pet cat for food. Conviction on either charge carries a maximum sentence of life imprisonment and for­feiture of an estimated Sl47,000 in pay that accrued during Gar­wood's captivity. The jurors, all Vietnam veterans, also have the option ofreducing the maltreatment charge to assault, which carries. a maximum penalty ofsix months in prison. IfGarwood is found guilty, his sentence will be determined by the jury after further hearings. There is an automatic appeal of a guilty verdict to Maj. Gen. David Barker, base commander, and it would also automatically be heard by the Navy Court of Military Review in Washington. -AP 
Conceiving babies in test tubes could result in slightly more birth defects, but the risk is so small that the con­troversial procedure may be a useful last resort for barren couples, a Harvard study concludes. The report cautions, however, that the odds are slim that the procedure will work and it should be used only after all other fertility treatments fail. So far, three children around the world are known to have been conceived in test tubes, then implanted into their mothers' wombs. The latest review of the procedure was written by Dr. John D. Biggers of Harvard Medical School and published in today's issue of the New Englandjournal ofMedicine. "The evidence suggests that the danger of increased congenital defects is not high," Biggers wrote. "The risk seems considerably lower than that accepted by couples with a recessive (inherited) defect who decide to have a child even though they know that an abnormal baby may be born." The defect most likely to result from test-tube conception is an extra set ofchromosomes, Biggers said. But when such embryos are transferred into their mothers' wombs, al· most all will die, as they do in natural pregnancies. -AP 
Friends of Sirhan Sirhan have appealed to U.S. Sen. Edward M. Kennedy to support the early release from prison of the man who assassinated his brother, Robert. Sirhan, 36, currently in Soledad Prison, has served 12 years of a life sentence for the 1968 assassination ofSen. Robert F. Kennedy. Sirhan, described as a model prisoner, is eligible for parole on Sept. I, 1984. Kennedy aide Patty McHugh said Tuesday she did not know ifher office had received the petition, "and even ifwe had, there would be no comment." -AP 
War is fought every Thursday <'ff the south coast of England. Ships weigh anchor at dawn and stt:.•u out into the English Channel. They meet the enemy, fire missiles, torpedoes and cannon shells, fight off air attacks and take evasive action. Some are declared sunk. Then it's tea time. The Thursday war is the North Atlantic Treaty Organization's weekly test of ships and crews under realistic condi· tions short of anyone getting killed. It forces ships from different na· tions in NATO's standing naval forces to work together, overcome language and tactical differences and forge friendships that bind the alliance. "It's the way we know our naval forces are really ready," says Rear Adm. David Eckersley-Maslin ofthe British navy, the commander of the navy base at Portland. "And the crews seem to like it." Leading the ships to battle last Thursday was the 18-year-old, 2,200-ton 
Braunschweig, a West German frigate with a crew of208led by Cmdr. Frank Saltzwedel, a veteran ofthe Thursday wars. Within minutes, the enemy presence had been relayed by radar to a cramped, sweaty operations room filled with maps, electronic gear and a dozen screens scanned by officers in charge ofthe Braunschweig's weapons -tor· pedoes, depth charges, IOOmm· guns, 40mm guns. rockets and mines. The battle ended in the sinking of the enemy, and the Braunschweig and its allies steamed back to Portland. Critiques of the battle and recommendations for improvement followed. -AP 
Toxic shock syndromeclaimed its 73rd victim yes­terday when a 16-year-old girl who used tampons died from the disease. Doctors Tuesday turned off life-support systems that were keeping Jill M. Machin alive since she slipped into a coma five days before. Toxic shock syndrome, a disease caused by Staphylococcus aureus, has been linked to use of tampons. Since 1975, when the disease was first identified, some 940 people have contracted the disease. At least 73, all women, have died, according to the Center for Disease Control in Atlanta. -AP 
With money in the bank Vice-President George Bush finished his 1980 campaign for the Republican presidential nomination in good shape, the Federal Election Commission reported yesterday. The Commission's final audit ofthe Bush campaign said he stayed within the overall spending limit for primary campaigns and under the individual limit for each state. The Commission earlier asked penalty payments from President Reagan and former President Jimmy Carter for exceeding legal spending limits in their nomination campaigns. The Bush audit said he had been overpaid by the governmnnt in the matching funds program, but that he had returned the entire S39,691 overpayment last September. Bush received $5.7 million from the federal government to match funds raised from private donors. -AP 
Increasing cloudiness and windy. Highs in the upper 20s. Fifty percent chance for light snow at night. Lows in the upper teens and low 20s. Partly cloudy Friday. Highs in the low 30s. ­
AP 
.,..,....~ ..a'O .·.1:-f' I'
' • .., . .L:.,.tr:;. _, ... 
Thursday, February 5, 1981 -page 2 
Hesburgh taken for granted? 
One ofthe first things that struck us as new freshmen at Notre Dame was the attitude held by students here toward Fr. Hesburgh, the hallowed president now in his 28th year. Many just don't like him. Hate is too strong a word, but dislike is accurate. This is unusual, and would certainly surprise anyone outside the University. It still surprises us. 
Those outside Notre Dame simply assume that stu­dents here must absolutely revere Hesburgh, a man ranked in everybody's Top I 0 of most influential Catholics. But students have a variety ofreasons for not Hesburgh is concerned with building betterfacilities, adoring Hesburgh, most of them having to do with his increasing the endowment, and improving and expand­

lack of effect on their immediate campus life. Many ing the various academic programs, both graduate and 
complain that he is never here, instead often traveling undergraduate. His tenure is paying dividends as no around the world on some non-Notre Dame-related ac­previous president's legacy has. One obvious example tivity which has no impact on their daily lives. They say 
is the enhanced academic reputation of Notre Dame, also that he is unaware ofcampus issues, and too rigid 
which probably is greater than it should be. Studeots on the familiar warhorses ofkegs, parietals, etc. 
see that every time someone back home ooohs and aahs The students are, for the most part, correct about 
over the revelation that "I go to Notre Dame." They still these things. Hesburgh is not on campus as much as the 
think it's a sprawling state school with an enrollment of average college president, and students have come to 
80,000, but that of course is due to football. In expect a recitation of his recent travel log when he academia, ND does not yet command the same sort of makes a public lecture or mass homily. Additionally, a respect, and no one department is outstandingly "Q & A" earlier this week in The Observer showed Hes­renowned, but formidable progress has been made. burgh to be alarmingly out of touch with the student Keep in mind also that Notre Dame was tantamount pulse. Asked about the off-campus students' crime 
to a reform school when Hesburgh took over in 1952. problem, Hesburgh perceived no unusual amount of 
Not only don't students have to go to Mass three times a crime in student areas, and suggested that it's just as bad 
week, or have lights out by 10 p.m. any more, but con­everywhere else. If that were true, martial law would 
trol ofthe University has even been turned over to a lay have been declared long ago and several cities would 
board, although one ofthe key provisions there was that probably be on fire. Hesburgh also pointed out that one 
the president must be a member ofthe Indiana order of reason parietals should not be enlarged is because the 
the Brothers ofHoly Cross. It sort oflimits the selection. students originally promised "that ifthe Trustees would 
Which brings us to Hesburgh's imminent departure, a give them this much, they wouldn't ask for more." 
topic revived again in an interview last week with the When was that? 
Chicago Tribune, in which Hesburgh mentioned a But to villify Hesburgh for these things is not correct. specific date (May-June '82) as a target for his retire­As Freddie Prinze put it, "Eez not my job" (though it is ment. This will mark a very important turning point in difficult to envision Hesburgh saying that with Notre Dame's future, and the questions of whether
a Chicano accent). But it really isn't. Notre Dame is 'not an 
there is a successor who possesses the same desire for average college, and Hesburgh is not an average presi­excellence that Hesburgh has, and who leaves with Hes­
dent. His concerns supercede the local issues of vital burgh (Fr. Van Wolvlear and Fr. Joyce are rumored to interest to Domers, and while that's not necessarily ·do so) are ones which will have a most crucial impact good, it is not necessarily Hesburgh's fault either. on students, even ifthey don't recognize it. 
There are other people hired to monitor and govern The logic in some student government circles earlier the student body, and they of course have not eluded this year was that Hesburgh was devoted to academic the students' wrath. Hate is not too strong a word to improvement, Joyce to athletic improvement, and that describe the opinion held of Dean of Students James a new president might concern himself more directly 
Roemer, which probably has little to do with Roemer with improvement ofstudent life. But the accomplish· personally as much as the requirement that he enforce ments of Hesburgh, while affecting the students only the laws ofDulac, which he does zealously. Vice Presi­indirectly, are too great to ignore, and too many dent of Student Affairs Fr. John Van Wolvlear holds a Domers take them entirely for granted. Don't. fuzzy image in the minds of students, mostly because they do not have a clear conception ofstudent govern· ment, and Van Wolvlear's direct relationship to it. 

Observer Notes 
But Hesburgh has nothing to do with all this. Yet, as one person put it, "he has become the figurehead that everybody blames for everything that is wrong with this Have you witnessed a crime which should be place." Perhaps. But all too easily, the narrow-minded reported? Do you have newsworthy information Domers forget that Hesburgh is definitely to blame for which might turn into an important article? Is there So man Ofthe th. that e r'ght wl'th th' plac something we should be covering? If so, call The Ob­
y mgs ar 1 1s e. server news department and let us know. We
Hesburgh is consumed with a desire to make Notre Dame a top-level academic institution, and the Trustees welcome any and all contributions from our readers have determined that that should be his function as -call 283·7471, 8661, or 1715, 24 hours a day, Sun-president. Viewed in that light, kegs, parietals, etc., day through Thursday. All sources are guaranteed b · 1 Th h 'bTt f t confidentiality.
ecome 1rre evant. ey are t e respons1 11 r, o, o.-•. 'itJJ r>~ ·-··• ! • "" .,.,,.
11117

hers. ·•lim · L---------------'.;..._________. T!:IYR$DAY NI~HT FILM SERIES 
Design Editor..................... Margaret Kruse Design Assistants .............. Kathy Crossett Mike Monk, Patty Fox, Tim Neely Layout Staff................~ .............. Kim Parent Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor........................... Margie Brassil Copy Editors ............................ Pam Degnan Lynne Daley Sports Copy Editors ............ Beth Huffman Kelly Sullivan Typist ......................................... ~ Cindy jones Systems Control ................. Chris Albertoli ND Day Editor........................ Megan Boyle SMC Day Editor...................... ]ohn Higgins Photographer ....................... Rachel Blount Ad Design ............................... Woody &joe Guest Appearances .... How 'bout a b'day?  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  

Thursday, February 5 
Tom Jones Dir. by Tony Richardson (Great Britain) 1963 Continuing in the comic mood, this rollicking adaptation of Henry Fielding is more than a match for the February blahs. With Albert Finney, Susannah York and Hugh Griffith having the times of their lives in bawdy Old England. 
THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 
7:30 pm admission $1.0 
sponsored by the.ND-SMC ~~OMMUNICATION & THEATR·E5~~ 

ROAD TRIP 
Virginia vs. N.D. 

s·20.00 (ticket and transportation) Tickets on sale, in S.U. Ticket office Limited Number Available Sponsored by YOUR Student Union Union 
·----------------------------------------------·--· The Observer Thutsday, f.ebt'Qau-', \.98l-page 3 
Polishnegotiationsbreakdo'Wtl 

WARSAW, Poland (AP) Negotiations aimed at ending a crip· piing local strike in southern Poland broke down yesterday and inde· pendent unionists called for rein· forcements while the government warned of"consequences." 
Independent labor leader Lech Walcsa, on hand in Bielsko-Biala for the talks, told The Associated Press: "It is better to fall while carrying one's head high than to retreat ig· nominously. 
"We arc not afraid," said the leader of the 10-million member in· dependent labor federation Solidarity. 
Warsaw Radio said government 
negotiators headed by Czeslaw 
Kotela, deputy minister of ad· 
ministration, local economy and en· 
vironment, returned to Warsaw 
after the talks failed. It said no date 
was set for a possible resumption. 
The broadcast said the govern­ment representatives told the strikers there was "no basis" for their nine-day-old job action, which has affected transportation and some 120 enterprises in 'the city in th southern province of Katowice. 
Kotcla· relayed to the strikers the government view that their action was "against the spirit" of labor· government agreements reached last year in settling nationwide strikes, the radio said. He said the strike committee would be "responsible for the consequences." 
There was no indication of what the consequences might be, but a 
President's dinner highlightsJPW 
ByJEFF CHOPPIN 
Nert•s Staff 
The l9th Annual junior's Parent's Wt•ekend, which will take place this wct•kend from tomorrow night to Sunday morning, will be attended by a record 900 t:tmiles, JPW chairman William Flynn stated. This makes the event second only to graduation as the largest formal event of the year. 
The weckt·nd, begun in the same year that Fr. fleshurgh became uni· versity president, is organized and dl're<.:ted completely by the junior class. Twcnty·three juniors, headed hy Flynn, coordinated the entire weekend. These juniors would also like to extt·nd their special thanks to their modnator, Mario Pedi. 
The parents, who will start arriv· lng sometime tomorrow, are travel­ing from all over the country and 
t·ven  from  overseas  to  attend the  
weekend.  
The  cocktail·dance  tomorrow  

night will officially commence the weekend. It will be held in the 
St. Pius Society 
celebrates Latin Mass 
A traditional Catholic Latin Mass will be celebrated on Saturday, Feb. 7, in the Garden Room of the Howard Johnson Motor Lodge, 52939 U.S. 33 (old U.S. .31 North) in South Bend. Mass will begin at '5:30 p.m., and will be preceded by con· fession and rosary at '5:00. 
The traditional Mass is sponsored by the Society of St. Pius X. The South Bend mission has adopted the name of Church of Our Mother of fair Love. 
l.oncourse·Monogram Room in the ACC and will begin at 9 p.m. The room will be decorated as Old Lon· don Town, with landscaped park scenes highlighting ,!Je decoration. The "Dennis Bamber Quartet" will provide the musical entertainment. Extra tickets will be available at the door. 
Saturday provides the majority of the weekend's activities. The col· leglate workshops enable the parents to gain an understanding of the academic lives of their sons and daughters. Each college will present its own workshop outlining their respective academia at various loca· tions on campus. The workshops also allow the students, faculty and parents to engage in informal discus· sions. 
At 6:30 p.m. on Saturday, Fr. Theodore Hesburgh will celebrate a mass at Sacred Heart Church .and Fr. Edward Malloy, will be the homilist. 
At 8 p.m. Is the highlight of the weekend: the President's Dinner. Over 2800 people have purchased tickets to the dinner, which will take place in the ACC fleldhouse. The main speaker at the dinner will be Fr. Hesburgh. Also speaking will be Junior Class President Michael Cas­sidy. The Glee Club will be on hand 
to provide entertainment. 
After dinner will be receptions at each ofthe dorms. 
A closing breakfast will be held Sunday morning at 9:30. This will also he held in the ACC fleldhouse. Fr. James Burchaell, Notre Dame Professor of Theology on sabbatical at Princeton, will return to give a short speech during the breakfast. 
The dinner chairman Michael Kel· ley and Flynn are hoping that the UCLA pep rally in the Pit at the ACC will not cause any problems. The two events are scheduled for a half. hour apart in the ACC. Kelley said that he was not changing any plans, but that he wished the ACC had told him of the pep rally earlier. He said that he will have to exert a little more effort, but expressed con­fidence in the ACC's ability to con· trol the crowd. 
flynn expressed worries that the crowd leaving the pep rally might in· terfere with the juniors and their parents entering the ACC. People attending the rally should enter Gate 
I, whlle people attending the dinner 
should enter Gate 2, Kelley said. 
~********************************jt 
$ senior bat special
i ••••••••••••••••• : ~ 
~ open sunday ~ * * 
iaftet u.c.l.a. oame ~ 
:******t****************~**t*****: i •• •• fot victory ~~~ i * * I b · ..,. * 
:Jf-*** ce e 1at1on ........,.~ * 
ir********************************~ 
recent government communique said authorities would tal<.e "all necessary" measures if strikes did not end. 
Continuing labor unrest in this Soviet·bloc nation has raised fears of a possible Soviet military interven· tion like that in Czechoslovakia in 1968. 
The unionists stopped work to press demands for the resignation of local officials they alleged were cor· rupt. The provincial governor and his deptuy resigned Tuesday under pressure from the strikers, and Premier Jozef Pinkowski said he would "consider" the resignations. 
But Warsaw Radio reported, and sources in Bielsko·Biala confirmed, that ·the strikers also want the resignations of Mayor Marian Kalon and two ofhis deputies. 
Walesa, contacted by telephone, 
said "What we are doing here is forced upon us by life. We do not want to go on striking anywhere, but we are compelled to do so." 
A western visitor who arrived In Warsaw. from the southern city described the atmosphere there ·as "very tense." 
Sources said the strike lea~ers, an· 
' gered by the Warsaw delegation's abrupt departure, stood and sang the national anthem. A communique issued by strike headquarters to all enterprises in· volved said: "The negotiations broke down. The commission left for War· saw. The strike is being continued. Strengthen second and third shift. Increase food supplies and blankets. In case of a breakdown in com· munications gl! ahead with a total sit·in strike." The reference to strengthening shifts appeared to be a call for more workers tlJ join the action. 
River City Records &Celebration Productions present from England 
U.F.O. in concert 
special guest to be 
announced 
Thursday March 12 8:00 om 
Morris Ovic AuditoriLm 
Tickets: $9.00 -8.00 all seats reserved and go on sale this Saturday Feb. 7, at 10:00 am 
River City Records 
50970 U.S. 31 North · 
Limit 1 0 tickets per person 

~--Engineers ___ 
Sundstrand On Campus Feb. 19 
A leading high technology company, Sund­strand is if1VOI~.~d in the de~ign, (Tlanufactur~. and sale of advanced systems and components for the aerospace and energy industries. We play a vital role on all U.S. commercial jets, current military programs, and several business jets. With annual sales approaching $1 billion, we have plants and a sales and service network throughout the world. 
If you're interested in a creative engineering en­vironment where you can work with outstanding professionals, investigate Sundstrand. We offer: 
• 
competitive salaries 

• 
solid benefits 

• 
liberal holidays 


• 
generous educational reimbursement program 


We are headquartered in Rockford, a major community in northern Illinois that offers varied employment opportunities for spouses. 
On-campus interviewer ... Bill Lewis 
_a SUNOSTRAND 
~~· 

4751 Harrison Avenue Rockford, IL 61101 
An Equal Opportumly Employer 


.. 
< 
r------------------------------~----­
The Observer Revolutionary court 
Iran tries Dwyer 
BERN, Switzerland (AP) -An Iranian Revolutionary Court tried American freelance writer Cynthia 
B. Dwyer today on espionage charges after holding her in prison for eight months, the Swiss Foreign Office announced. It said a verdict may be handed down Monday. 
But in Washington, a State Depart· ment spokesman said the depart· ment had been told that Mrs. Dwyer was given a hearing, not a trial. He did not specify the dtfferences be­tween the two legal procedures or whether a hearing would be con· sidered a preliminary step. 
The Swiss also said that the Swiss Embassy was informed that another American, 44-year-old Mohi Sob· bani, had been freed by Iranian authorities after being held on un­specified charges since Sept. 6. 
A Foreign Office spokesman said a Swiss diplomat who attended Mrs. Dwyer's trial reponed it lasted one day and that Mrs, Dwyer appeared "nervous but in good condition" and was permitted to "speak freely." 
Mrs. Dwyer, 49, ofAmherst, a sub­
iNotre Dame SBP & 1 Student Senate 
Elections Candidates in for national meeting 
Student Senate 
Thurs. , Feb. 5 
7:00pm 
Student Govt. Offices 
2nd Floor LaFortune 
urb of Buffalo, N.Y., was arrested May 5 when she went to Iran to write articles about the revolution and was later accused of spying for 
the  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  
The  Swiss  Embassy,  representing  
U.S.  interests  in  Iran,  has  been  

attempting to negotiate her release. 
John Dwyer, her husband, said in Buffalo he had been notified of the trial by the State Department but that before commenting, "I'll just wait until I hear a little more official­ly." • 
State Department spokesman Wil· liam Dyess said information received in Washington did not con­firm Swiss reports that she was tried on espionage charges and would be sentenced Monday. 
"We are not aware of any specific charges," he said, adding that the Swiss had informed the United States that there may be "a disposition" of the case next week. 
Mrs. Dwyer was not included in negotiations between the United States and Iran on release of 52 American h0stages freed from 444 days ofcaptivity on jan. 20. 
Sobhani, an Iranian-born naturalized American citizen whose family lives in Los Angeles was ar­rested at the airport on a trip to Iran. According to the State Department, another naturalized American, M­ghanborn Zia Nassri, was being held in Iran but there was no other in­formation on him. 
The Buffalo Evening News talked with Swiss diplomat Flavio Meroni in Tehran who was quoted as saying the trial was at Evin Prison and lasted six hours. He was quoted as saying "it was a normal procedure in front ofthe Revolutionary Court" and that he expected a sentence in a few days. 
Meroni was quoted as saying "we don't know about sentence. We don't know if it could be prison, or she could be ordered to leave the country, or be in prison and then leave the country." 
Buy 6 Albums or apes 
and get an original Peaches 
Record Crate Free! 
-offer expires Feb 16, 1981­
River City Records 
50970 US 31 North 3 miles north of campus 2 7 7-4242 open til 1 0 every night 
***********************************
-~
: ~ 
aGET IN SHAPE!!£
.• •~
-
**********************************~ 
: BECOME SELF-CONFIDENT~
* ~
* •
* ~
: WT~ LEARN ~ 
: @ ~ SELF-DEFENSE i 
i ii Join the ! i ND Wado-Ryu ! 
: Karate CluB i 
: SigK U1J fedaq ot the South Dining Boll during : : diuer or call Jolm 3093 ~ 
*********************************** 
.b 
Thursday, February 5, 1981 -page 4 

AsjuniorParents Weekend rapidly approaches, Mike Kelley andBillFlynn makefinalpreparations. 
(photo by Rachel Blount) 
continuedfrom page 1 
If you have friends living in China, they can invite you. If you're a businessman interested in trade, you can get a visa from the government corporation handling your line of work. The foreign ministry and education ministry also arrange visas for some students, technical experts and YIPs. 
Once in China, getting around is not difficult -except for busines­smen. The foreign and education ministries almost always get the OK to the Public Security Bureau for their guests to travel, a process which usually takes about two for Europeans and Americans. 
But Westerners doing business with China say the government cor­porations arc more reluctant to let their business guests travel., possibly because they don't want to lose a sale to a competing corporation in another city or province. 
With travel permit in hand, 

anyone traveling alone can then 
decide to go by train or plane and 
make his or her own transporation 
and hotel reservations. This can be 
difficult, especially in late spring and 
~liFE IN THE SPIRIT ! A sharing by member~ ~ of the Notre Dame * ! Charismatic !
* Prayer Group ~ ! about what God is * ~oing in the lives of !* people today * ;Monday February 9 ~ 
7:30 pm Library loung~ 
.Ci1ina 
fall which are the height of the tourist season. 
Obviously, speaking Chinese makes sightseeing infinitely easier. But non Chinese speaking tourists can also get around without much difficulty, especially in big cities, if they've got the proper sense of ad­venture. 
Taxi dispatchers . in all major hotels speak English and can list the sights you want to see and shops you want to vist. Many guidebooks and the China phonebook now have the names of major locations .in English and Chinese, so all-you have to do is show the taxi driver the book and 
point. 
Taxis are reasonable and it's easy 

to get around on buses if you have 
the time. Two hours of sightseeing 
in Shanghai could cost anywhere 
from 56 to S15, depending on the 
distance and waiting time. The lon­
gest bus ride would cost less than I 0 
cents. 
If you want a guide, the travel service can find you one on a day's notice -and by going it alone, you can hire him for as long or short as 
you want. 
Contrary to reports that nightlife in China is very limited, there arc currently a few hangouts for foreig­ners which are also frequented by growing numbers ofChinese. 

The club at the Minzu Hotel in Peking, which with its revolving mirrored ball in the center of the dance floor looks like a cabaret from pre-World War II days, was packed with locals and foreigners one recent Saturday night. So was the In­ternational Club. 
In Shanghai, the in-spot is the coffee-house at the Peace Hotel,. which features a six-piece Chinese danceband whose repetoire doesn't extend beyond the 1940s, but would be the envy ofany lover ofthe Big Band era. 
There weren't any Charlestons but one recent Friday night the band tried its hand at a mambo, a samba and some swing music which was easily adaptable to the latest disco steps. 
The No. I hangout in China's lar­gest city is still the South Gate Res­taurant at Shanghai's jinjiang Hotel. There, foreigners and locals dance to tapes brought by patrons, music that can range from Barbra Strcisand ballads to Romanian gypsy songs. 
I .IRISH COUNTRY
1 (under new management) 
744 N. Notre Dame 232-0111 OPEN AT NOON HOMESTYLE COOKING 
MON -$.25 beer 8-10 TUES --ladies night 2 tor 1 8-10 WED -amateur night THURS -all you can drink 9 -2 $5 FRI -Eddy St.Knights -live band 
~~~-=~~~-~~~-~n~!~~:~_____j
I
IHOOP I 
I
I HOllAR I 
I I 
I AT IRISH I 
I I COUNTRY
I 
1I bring in this coupo 1 have a 
I 
I oeer on us!! I 
I I ­

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·
--~ 
The Observer Thursday, February 5, 1981 -page 5 
Stresses unity 
Khomeini praises U.S. 

BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -Ayatol­lah Ruhollah Khomeini accused Iran's quarreling politicians yester­day of "biting one an'other like scor­pions," and in a rare compliment to the United States, urged they behave more like their American counter­parts. 
The 80-year-old Iranian revolutionary leader, addressing a crowd at a Tehran mosque, also ack­nowledged that he was in had health. 
"The crowd i1) so huge ... hut I can­not speak in detail because my health is not good enough," Khomeini said. "Therefore I will he 
~~~:r:;,.? will say a few words in 
Tehran radio has recently broad­cast appeals for Iranians to stay away from the suburban Tehran home of Khomeini, who was said to have suf­fcrt:'d a heart attack early in 1980 and wa.~ hospitalized for several weeks. Since then there have been various reports that his health wa.~ failing. 
Khomeini's 25-minute speech was hroadcL~t by Tehran radio and monitored here and ih London. 
It was his second speech stressing the need for unity among Iran's feuding politicians since the 52 Americans held hostage in Iran for 444 days were freed on Jan 20. 
Iranian leaders have used the hostage issue -both before and af­ter their release -in attempts to gain power over their political foes. 
As in the past, Khomeini declined to take sides between Iranian Presi­dent Abolhassan Bani-Sadr, leader of Iran's secular moderates, and his long-time rival Prime Minister Mohammad Ali Rajai, who is sup­ported by the powerful Islamic clergy that controls Parliament. 
Khomeini did not mention either side by name, but said Iran's oppos­ing political groups were "bitingone another like scorpions. God help them ifthey are wittingly weakening this country. 
"God forbid if there should come a time when I feel obliged to do my duty. I advise them to keep calm, not to claw one another's faces, but to join together to help the country progress. Solve our differences of opinion in a brotherly atmosphere," he said. 
"Do not let it become necessary for me to do my duty. If I do have to do my duty I will take hack whatever I have given to other individuals," he said. 
Khomeini pointed to the U.S. political system as an example of how political foes can co-exist. 
"You'll never sec two parties in the United States working against 
U.S. interests," said Khomeini, who habitually rc:fers to the United States as the "Great Satan." 
HPC organizes escorts 
By TIM FETTERS 
News Staff 
A student-operated escort service will begin Sunday. The Hall Presi­dent Council voted to approve this Student Senate-proposed service, and are continuing to work hard to make the escort service work. 
The idea was proposed hy Student Senate District 3 Representative Pat Borchers, who is pleased with the support he has gotten. "This will show students how well student government can work," he said. 
The service will operate Sunday through Thursday, from 7-9 p.m. Each night, ten volunteers from the men's dorms will be on call. A dorm from the North Quad and one from the South Quad will be scheduled to provide volunteers each night. In ad­dition, ten volunteers will be available at the library Sunday through Thursday from lO-ll :4'i . 
p.m. to escort girls from there. 
Any girl needing an escort will ht· able to call OBUD, which will, in turn, call one of the volunteer es­corts. "llopl'fully, we nm have someone tht·rc.: within ten minutes," Borchers comnwnted. The escort will then accompany the girl to any on-campus or nearby oil-campus destination. 
"A rapist is not as likely to attack a girl who is walking with a guy. He'd rather try to find an easier target," Borchers said. 
Male students wishing to volun­teer as est·orts should contact their hall president. "With enough volun­teers, this won't take much ofa guy's time," added Borchers, "and-a dorm will only he on call once every week or two. A lot of pt·ople havl,.' already volunteered. I think that people here at NO want to he able to help, and arc just looking for the chance. Well, here is their chance." 

NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION 
SPRING BREAK IN DAYTONA BEACH 
MARCH 13 ­ 22, 1981  
5207 5195  4 PER ROOM (2 Double Beds) 6 PER ROOM (3 Double Beds)  
TRIP INCLUDES  

• 
Round trip motor coach transportation on first class charter coaches leaving the campus Friday 

evening March 13 and traveling straight through with plenty of partying to Daytona Beach, arriving the following day. The return trip departs the follow­ing Sat. in the afternoon, and arrives back on campus the next day. 

• 
A full seven nights accommodations at the Plaza Hotel of Daytona Beach, Florida. 

• 
A great time in Daytona with special parties and activities. 

• 
Optional trip to Disney World available. 

• 
All t8xes and gratuities. 




SIGN UP NOW AT THE TICKET OFFICE IN THE LA FORTUNE BUILDING 
8:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m. MON.-FRI. OR CALL 283-3031 (after five 283-6283J 

-------------.-----------·----­
Thursday, February 5, 1981 -page 6
Editorials 
-~ ----­

Rust Israeli bias 
Dear Editor, 
The topic of my letter is 
humanity -a word that is used 
frequently, and almost never 
remembered. Opposed to this is 
materialism, a word which is sel­
dom used but usually remem­
bered. 
I am writing to express my extreme disappointment in the reporting of The Observer on the Jerusalem issue, especially the ar­ticle by Mark Rust (Friday, Jan. 30). For the past three days, all of the related articles in the The Ob­server have been pro-Israeli. This would be fine if there were no other point of view. Btit there is, and the student body should be made aware of it. 
The only argument given by 
Rust for the Israeli rule of 
Jerusalem is that they can take 
better care of the city than the 
Arabs. Let's assume that this is 
true and that the Arabs do enjoy a 
higher standard of living under 
the Israeli rule. The point made is 
that the government that can rule 
a city most cftkicntly has a right 
to rule that city. Obviously, Rust 
feels that this principle is self­
evident. and graciously spares us 
the tedium of an argument to 
defend it. Indeed, why bother with an argument, for this subject is so easily applicable to other areas. For instance, if I feel that I can take care of your house better than you can, I certainly have not only the right, but the duty to for­cibly take your house. On an in­ternational level, imagine the nerve of those Afghanistans, fighting the Russians! Can't they sec that the Russians arc more ed­ucated than they arc, and cancer­tainly rule their country better 
than they can? 
I have already granted that the Arabs may be richer under Israeli rule, but is that what is important? Is there nothing more to life than wealth? The Arabs believe they have a right to a say in what hap­pens in their lives, instead of just leaning back and enjoying the wealth that Israel has bestowed upon them. There arc two mis­conceptions involved in the con­sideration of this issue. First, Israel is not a perfectly objective ruler that cares only for the happi­ness of its Arab neighbors, for there arc innumerable cases of beatings, deportation, and im­prisonment wihout charge. Second. Palestinians arc not the type of people who would passively accept this injustice. 
Rust quotes Mayor Kollck as saying that the PLO is not ac­cepted by Jerusalem Arabs. Mr. Kollck obviously has evidence for saying this, which Rust has once again spared us the tedium of reading. I, for one, question this opinion. I believe that my im­pression is at least as valid as Mr. Kollck's, for I've lived with Palestinians (many of whom arc from Jerusalem) my whole life. Granted, many Palestinians, including myself, don't agree with the PLO's terrorism, but what many people do not understand is that the PLO is the only thing we can call Palestinian, other than ourselves. Many also don't realize that the terrorism is only the military faction of a govern­ment in exile, for the PLO also sponsors schools, hospitals, and social welfare programs. 
Another misconception stated by Rust is that the issue is religious and not ideological. This is not true. I would be more than happy to co-exist wih Jews. I can­not, however, co-exist with Zionists, who feel that they have a right to the whole of Palestine, a country whose fields my ances­tors have plowed for the past thousand years. 
Obviously, since I am so cyni­cal about Mayor Kollck' s solu­
tion, I feel I ha vc a better one. The Jerusalem government shoud be a fair representation of the popula­tion, and thus include the proper number of Arabs. This would ensure that Arabs would have a decisive say in the social programs that arc instituted, so that Palestinian Arabs will no lon­ger have to look over the filth of their refugee camps, and sec Is­raeli skyscrapers. And, more im­portantly, they can say, "I do have inalienable rights and a place in society." 
Mr. Rust had better believe there arc a few "ruffled turbans" about the recent events in Jerusalem. As a Palestinian from the city of Nablus, I feel very strongly that the I 00 percent Is­raeli domination of Jerusalem is irrational and unjust. My opinion may be biased, but I feel the moral justifications given here arc sound. Of course, maybe I'm wrong. Maybe materialism is a better ideology than humanitarianism. 
Maad Abu Ghazalah 

The Observer welcomes letters from readers. Letters should be typed and double-spaced, and, to insure swift publication, -the writer should include his/her phone number. 
Hesburgh off base 
. 
on o-c crtme 
Dear Editor, 

In an interview in Tuesday's. Observer, Fr. Hesburgh was 
asked  what  the  administration  
was doing  about  off-campus  
crime.  The  basic  point  of  his  

response was, "I think people who live off-campus live in the real world. The real world is a world where there is crime." Nowhere in his response did he indicate that the administration was doing anything to alleviate 
cnme. 

People who live in third world countries also live in the real world, and the real world is a 
· world where there is poverty. Fr. Hesburgh, you have done a great deal of work helping the poor, and that is good. But crime is a serious problem to students on and off­campus. Don't you think the ad­mtmstration should make an effort to make the "real world" safe for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students? 
Larry Hau 

Big business in West Point phone booth 
The one pay telephone booth our next sales meeting.... Listen, now?...Good. Tell him to keep The next person in the booth just outside West Point had a line J. B., th~rc' s an agency here going. If we don't get a hostage, said, "Ted, I'm still trying to give of people waiting to usc it. There trying to get any hostage to we'll say we got jt from an itnpcc­the lifetime gold pass for the were not only newspaper people choose between Hero sausgcs cablc source." He hung up, and a Sl!pcr-Orbit Roller Cpastcr to a 
but press agents as well-anyone and our hamburger helper.... Will woman wcnt·into the booth, hos·tagc, but I can't get ncar who wanted just a little piece of that hurt our campign?..." · anyone who will take it. None of 
"Terry," she said, "it's·
the hostages. the hostages seem to be very in­
Rhonda. Tell Arthur I talked to
The man inside the booth was People were banging on the terested in a roller coaster ride at 
the aunt of one of the hostages,
shouting so everyone could hear phone booth, "Come on, you've the moment. This is my problem.and she said she'd be happy if the
him, "No, J.B., I haven't found been in there long enough." Almost everyone up here is trying
Bickering Company put in an
anyone yet, but I'm getting close. to give a gold pass to the hostages
entire new sprinkling system for
I talked to the brother-in-law of The next man to get in dialed a for something or other. The N a­her lawn. Tell Arthur to alert the
one of the hostages, nd he thinks number and said, "Zack, I think tiona! Football League, the 
media right away. We'll hold the
we can swing it. .. I know what you I've got a hostage to tell his story Baseball Association, the circus 
press conference as soon as the
want, J.B. You want a hostage to exclusively to us for $10,000. I people arc all pushing gold
family gets back home. Tellsay on TV that the thing he missed told him we'd write it for him, and passes, and it's not much of a 
George to stick American flags all the most ·in captivity was all he'd have to do is pose for a story. Why don't we forget the 
over the lawn where the sprinklerGrandma Bonny Clyde's Ham­picture with his arms tied behind a gold pass and have a National 
system is going to be. And try to
burger Helper. Right. That's all chair. He referred me to his Hostage Day at the amusement get the school supcrintOlndcnt to
he thought about during his or­agent. ... What do you mean, how park? Any member of a hostage
give all the kids in town .the day
deal. ... I told the brother-in-law family will be allowed on any ride
did he get an agent so fast? There 
off.''
that. If the hostage says it. wc.'ll 
arc more agents up here at West give him a lifetime supply of 
Point than there arc Army cadets. 
Grandma Clyde's Hamburger I was fourth in line, waiting free. We'll decorate the Ferris
Hold page one open. I'll get back Helper and a trip to Las Vegas to to you. Is Tony writing the story patiently. wheel with a large yellow rib-
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
Art Buchwald 
bon.... l thought you'd like it. Good. I'll spread the word up here right away." 
The next person who went into the booth said," AI, NBC has just offered $250,000 for a mini-series on the hostages. CBS came back with $500,000 and ABC has of­fered $750,000. How high do we want to go?... You want to go to a million, but I have to sign up all 52 families! It's not easy, AI. Some of th~m don't want any publicity. They just want to get out of the limelight. ... You'll settle for half of the hostages? 0 K, it's your money. I know you've got the American Embassy in Tehran set built already, but the State Department says it may not cooporatc in the show.... You'll build your own State Department on the lot? All right, I'll sec what I can do. Have you got the cast yet?... You've got to be kidding? 
You  really  think  you  can  get  
Vanessa  Rcdgravc  to  play  the  
Ayatollah?''  


GFTM&SOM&­
I 7H(){)3HTYOU
.k££PIT 
I 5AifJ, I NmJ lHOS& C/GIJJ<£77t5 
FOR CRYING 7HING CLASSY,

IA/&1<& 601/1¥3 7D
W/.VN, 81/L/) 
QU!ff!I'M NOW! ANONf/fR£'5 7HAT 
WT UJU[}, 8At/J OMY? YOUKNOW,

GETM&50M5
ON&l I'M 
7Rt!NG 7D NtiAJ PICTVF&?iMSICKOF 
ON&' I'V& GOT UK& AIU{)YNE-1­

CIGARETTE-S!
BUSYl / 
STUfJYl TH/5 fJAMN ICXIN! /)(} YOU 
F/NA/S 70-MAN SPOF<Tifo¥3 
7 
/ HEARM&, 
/MORFOIAJ! PRiNT/ 
""""'"'"''---/ 6/JARJF 


It was finaliy my turn. I called the Internal Revenue Service and got a man on the line. "I'd like to form the Society for the Protec­tion of American Hostages in the Unitcd States, and I want to know if i(s tax-deductible." 
The man on the other end said, "Is this organization necessary?" 
I replied, '·You better believe it." 
Art Buchwald is a syndicated columnist who appears regularly on The Observer editorials page. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers Thursday, February 5, 1981 -page 7 
Editor-in-Cbief.....................................Paul Mullaney  Sports Editor...........................................Beth Huffman  
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  Managing Editor..........................................Mark Rust  Features Editor.......................................MoUy Woulfe  
The Observer is an  independent newspaper published by the students of the  Editorials Editor..............................Michael Onufrak  Photo Editor ...............................................john Macor  
University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Collese. It does not necessanly  Senior Copy Editor.....................Mary Fran Callahan  
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news ts r_eporred  Executive News Editor.........................TomJackman  BusinessManager ..................................Greg Hedges  
as accurately and as objectively as possible: Edito_ri~ils represent the opmwn of a  NewsEditor...............................................Pam Degnan  Controller........................................................Jim Rudd  
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentanes,. opmwns, and letters are the vtews  News Editor ...................................... , ........Lynne Daley  Advertising Manager...................................Mark Ellis  
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the c~mmumty, and  SMCExecutive Editor..........................Margie Brassil  Circulation Manager................. : .......... Beth Hackett  
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, 1s encouraged.  SMC News Editor......................................Mary Leavitt  Production Manager...........................John McGrath  



Pomp, Pageantry, Romance, &Meaning. 
' ' 

The Notre Dame Student Players Present 
Pippin 

P
~ppin, a musical comedy about a prince's searching for meaning, opens tomorrow night at Washington Hall. Tht· Notre Dame Stu· dent Players, under Director Paul Kosidowski, have been rehearsing since last November. 
Michael Kelly, a sophomore from Minnesota, plays Pippin, the dis­enchanted son ofCharlemagne who tries to find his identity through war, sex, power, art, and finally through a simple life. Senior Tony Mockus appears as Charlemagne, and Sue Grocschel plays Fastrada, the Queen, who would prefer that her son Lewis (Mike Taylor) assume the throne instead ofher stepson Pippin. Mary E. FranceII will popray Bcrthe, Pippin's grandmother. 
Christie Hechinger andjcrcmy Manier will appear rt·spcctivdy as the widow and young boy that n·vcal Lifc's simpler side to tht· scafl·h· ing prince. Rkk Dohring is the Leading Player. 
Senior Maureen Manier choreographt·d the dant·c numbers in tht• musical. 
Tickets arc available at the Student Union box office, ami will ht· sold at the door. Price of admission is S2 for students and S3 lilr general admission. 
Washington Hall 
Tomorrow Night at 7p.m. February 7, 12, & 13 at 8 pm. Februmy 14 at 2 p.m. Photos by Rachel Blount , 

~ 
Ihe--Obsener~====================-~======;:::::===== 
¥ANNOUNCING THE '81¥ SELECTIONOF STUDENT UNION IJRECTOR AND COlvfPTROLLER.  
~ .J1on., Feb. 2 Applications available in the SU Offices ¥ ..:Won., Feb. 16 Applications due 5pm -¥-Sat., Feb. 21 Interviews and final, selections GET INVOLVED! GET INTO NDSU!  

sponsors Chicago trip 
The junior class is sponsoring a weekend trip to Chicago, for April 3, 4 and 5. There is room for 188 Notre Dame juniors to travel by bus to Chicago. Accommodations wil be at the Marriott Hotel located on Michigan Avenue. The bus willleavc Notre Dame at 3 p.m. and return Sunday afternoon. A cocktail pany will be held at 6:30 p.m. at the hotel. 
The whole weekend is open so stu­dents can do what they prefer. Pamphlets will be distributed with events, restaurants, bars, plays, ex­hibits, and other events listed. The total package, including bus transportation, lodging, and cocktail party is only S50. Deposits and rooming lists are due March 4 and 5 with 4 to a room. Contact Colleen Kelly (chairman) or Karen Kiley ( c:>-chairman) at 3726. 
Campus 
•11:15 a.m.-3:30p.m.-com­puter mini-course: "fundamentals of program­ming," room 115, computing center, math building. 
•4 
p.m. -seminar: "anomalous behavior in the photoprocesses of copolymers of styrene and acrylophenone," dr. thomas kip, conference room, radiation lab. 

•4:15 
p.m. -film: temptation of power (pre-revolutionary events in iran,) sponsored by the department of sociology and anthropology, room 122, hayes-healy. 

•7 
p.m. -information session for all candidates f<,>r student senate and student government offices, Ia fortune. 


•; p.m.-wsnd radio: speaking of sports with basketball tri­captains tracy jackson, orlando woolridge and kelly tripucka. 
•7.9 p.m. -film: decameron, 
e.t.s theater, center for continu­ing education. 
•7,9,
11 p.m. -film: the three musketeers, carroll hall, ( smc). 

•7,9,11 
p.m. -film: "10," engineering auditorium, admis­sion $1. 

•7:30 
p.m. -film: tom jones, annenberg auditorium, admis­sion n. 

•7:30 
p.m. -basketball: n.d. women vs goshen college, a.c. c. 

•8 
p.m. -show: "second city," o'laughlin auditorium, sponsored by the student ac­tivities programming board, ad­mission .S3 for nd/smc students. 

•8: 
p.m. -lecture: monte krel will discuss the libertarian political philosophy, Ia fortune little theater. 


Evangelist speaks 
Jack Chisholm, author and evan­gelist, will be the principal speaker at the Fifth Annual Michiana Con­ference ofLaymen and Clergy March 6-7 at the Century Center,South Bend. "This Light of Mine"' will be the theme. Ron Gray of South Be11d will be the conference coordinator. 
The conference is open to the public and is interdenominational. For further information call ( 219) 259-6095 or(219) 255-4382. 
Junior Class 
Molarity 
------,..-----, 

Peanuts 
The Daily Crossword 
©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Michael Molinelli 
Charles Schulz 
ACROSS 1 Macaws 5 Exclude 
10 Sentry's beat 14 Arms pact acronym 
30 Shrill voice 

34 Aries sign 
35 Novelist 
Lofts 37 Poetic bleakness 

Applications Now Available For 
The Position Of ---------1 
STUDENT UNION 
COFFEEHOUSE MANAGER 
Applications and job descriptions are 
available at the S. U. Offices on the 
2nd floor of La Fortune. 
Completed applications are due by Feb. 6 
55 Garden 18 Italian bloom city 59-May 22 Hospital Oliver area 
62 "-want 24 "-of the for Christ-Airways" mas... " 25 Juan or Eva 
63 Rescue 27 More unique 
corpsmen 28 Zola 67 Rock chain 29 Fanatic 68 Greek 31 Contradict 
market 32 Scottish 69 Repetition landowner 
of sound 33 Ms Bombeck 70 Woman 34 Foxx 71 Cranky 36 Viking of 72 Geste the funnies 
39 Assort 
DOWN 41 San-, lt. 1 Bat wood 44 Cupid 2 Martha of 46 Sari wearer 
comed~ 49 Patronize 3 Slalom area 51 Roved 4 Ermines 53 Western 5 Morse tribe 
signal 55 Earthy 6 French deposit 
season 56 Olive genus 7 Office VIP 57 Cariole 8 like a 58 Son of 
crone Aphrodite 9 Vocation 60 City in spot France 10 Salesmen 61 Word after 
of sorts tummy 11 Butterine 64 Buchwald 12 Cabbage 65 Have per-
salad mission to 13 Mountain 66 lawn pool covering 
.. 
The Observer Sports Special 
Thursday, February 5, 1981 -page 9 
ND students: crucial to an Irish win 
Sports Writer 
Sunday, it's show time Before an entire nation, Notre Dame will get a chant·e to strut its stuff. UCLA, along with NBC-TV, will lw in snowy South Bend. and the whole world will ht· watd1ing. To steal a line from tht· immortal AI McGuirc, Notrc Damc will hc on when the red light is on. 
But McGuirt· was talking about a team, namely DePaul. What"' e an· dealing with hcrc is an cntirc stu· dt·nt body, which hopdully is not ofthc same mcntality as thc Blut· lkmons. The similiarities, though, arc strik· ing. 
Nobody in the country would try to argue that the 
Blue Demons art·n't among thc nation's finest -when 
tht· rt·d light is on. Ukcwisc, the Notrc Dame student 
body's rccord In front of the peacock's whirring 
t·amcras is nt·arly !lawless. 
The poinl is, so what? 
What studt·nt body docsn't losc its sensibilities whcn a llCIA, DcPaul or Indiana comes to town? To quotc ont• of my favorite philosophcrs, you don't kiss the cn· ginccr fi>r bringing the train in on time. 
It's a ticklish situation. Nobody in his right mind t·ould f>ossihly get as t·xcitcd to sec the Irish play Saint Mary's as ht· would to sec liC.lA. that's only natural. At tht· samt· timt·, nobody t·an tdl mc that Notre Damc's playt·rs maintain a similiar levcl of emotional consis· tt·nt·y for opponcnts of such a varying dcgret•. 
Thc timt· has comc for thc studcnt body to take a 
long, hard look at itself. 
First of all. thc myth ahout hl'ing thc No. I studcnt 
body in tht· nation. Forgt·t it. That's just what it Is -a 
myth. But when you think about it, thcrc really isn't 
anything wrong with that. Bcing a haskcthall fanatic 
isn't a prt·rcquisite for admission to Notre Damc. And 
wht·n thc gamt·s start piling up at the rate ofevcry otht·r 
night, othcr things. such as studies, may start to take 
preccdcnt'C. 
But. as I said. let's he honest, howcvcr painful that might he. 
Tht•rt· can ht· little disputing that wc havc hccn spoilnl hy sucn·ss. It is hard to gt•t excited about watch· lng Saint Mary's when IICIA is coming to town Sunday. But ll't's not hc hypocrites. If and whcn thc Irish heat tht· Hruins. thc studt•nt body will no doubt play an im­portant role. 
Bdort· you ~.·all ;Ill your friends to ask if they saw you 
on TV. though. think hat·k to whcre you wcrc on Mon· 
day night hdore you n·mind them that you're a mt·m· 
lll'r of the No. I studt·nt t)ody in thc nation. 
Tht•rt·'s just onc other thing. 
Now that tht· dt·mand ti>r basketball tiC'kcts has dt·arl)' t·xn·t·dt·d tht· supply for stude'nt tickets, tht· tit'kt·ts haw hcconH· somcwhat of a status symbol -at tht· cxpt·nse offrt·shmt·n and Saint Mary's studcnts. 
Tht·rt·'s nothing wrong with huying a student tickcl just to st·t· Diggn's "power" gamcs. hut let's practice sorm· of that compassion Notre Dame is so famous for. 
If you arcn't going 10 usc your ticket, make an honest df'orl to 11nd arwthcr student who will. Ask the frcsh­mcn in your senion. tell your R.A., or call a friend at Saint Mary's. When studies bcgin to pile up, a day or two notice should he pknty to lind a student who would rt·ally apprcdatc it. 
But tht·rc's no ext·ust· for your ticket to sit gathcrin~o: dust on top of your desk just hct:ause you de~ide at thc last minute that you don't ft·ellike going to tht· game. 
Digger Phelps (above), seeking his 200th Irish coaching 11ictory, will be counting on john Paxson (below) to lead the u•ay against 
UCLA. 



LOST: NOTRE DAME'S NOTORIOUS SIXTH MAN ­IF FOUND, PLEASE RETURN TO TilE ACC IN TIME FOR SUNDAY'S GAME WITII TilE IJCIA BRUINS. 
What has happened to the Notre Dame student body 
-thc mass of screaming, coopcrativc fans that wa:~ 
voted the game's Most Valuahk Playcr hy NBC's Billy 
Packer and Dick Enht·rg whcn the !rish upsl'l thc No. I 
ranked and undckatcd San Fram·isco Dons, 9:\·H2, on 
March I, 1977? 

Granted, nearly all of thosc students who witnessed 
the dcft·at of Bob Gaillard's team arc graduated and out 
into thc real world. But, what about the prcscnt H7"i0 
scholars who daim enrollment at the llniversity of 
Notrc Dame? They certainly havcn't ht·cn turning out 
for Irish basketball games of latc -at least not the way 
they used to. 

Nothing has bccn seen in the papcrs about a mass 
hostage nisis in South Bcnd. Are tht· students to he 
merely listed as Mit\ (last seen as an clement of victory 
on Feb. 27, 19HO, the date Notre Dame dumpcd DePaul, 
76-74, in double ovcrtimc )? 
The 1977 win over l!SF and thc 19HO upst•t of the 
Blue Demons werc characterized hy crics of "29-and­
onc" and "2"i-and-onc," respectively. Both thrillcrs saw 
the Irish knock tcams from the throne ofcollcgc haskt·t· 
hall. 

A few wccks ago, a rcspcctahlc numhcr of students 
showed up to watch the Irish realize rcycnge ovcr Pctc 
Barry's Dons. But that crowd was rathcr subdued as thc 
team fought to a last-minute win on a patcntcd John 
Paxson miracle toss. 

Just five home games remain on thc Notre Dame 
schedule this year (not counting the Ralph Sampson 
Show that will be on location at the Rosemont 
Horizon). One game of true quality is indudcd in the 
remaining contests -the annual UClA invasion. 
Larry Brown, who suprisingly took the Bruin squad to 
the NCAA Final Four last ycar in his. in.itial season as 
head coach at UClA, comes to thc ACC with a 1·2 
record against Diggcr Phelps. That single win occurred 
hack in Novcmher -tht· 11rst timc Notrc Damc fell to 
thc Bruins in Pauley Pavilion since 1976. 
That West Coast loss did not ~et well with thl· Irish squad and there is just onc thing on thcir minds ­REVENGE. That revcngc could he tough to rcalizt· this timc around. Rod Foster & Co. would like nothing bet· ter than to accept and acn>mplish the Impossihlc Mis· sion -defeating Notre Damc in tht· Athlctic and Convocation Center. 
The Irish have a I "i·game winning streak going <II home, with the last loss under the ACC dome occurring to Marquette last February. Notre Dame's 11rst un· dcfcatcd scason in its own territory sinct· tht· 197:~·7-t season is in sight this year, with jw;t Boston, Fairfield. St. Francis, and Dayton rcmitinlngon the ~chcdulc. But that dean slate can only he acl·omplishl'll with a win ovcr the Bruins. 
And Digger Phdps hdicvcs that win can only com< 
wilh the hdp ofthc "sixth man." 
Phelps suggested the "29-and-one" cry at a pep rail} 
way hack in '77 along with thc dcsirc to have the stu· 
dent body present half an hour beti>re ganll' time. Hi~ 
wishes wen.· more than fulfilled as the ACC was jamrm·d 
nearly an hour prior to game with sneamin~o: fans. 
Phelps has selectedABUSE as the tht·rnt•li>r this liU.A 
dash -th:1t's what he hopcs to do to Brown and hi~ 
team, with thl' hdp of thosl' who pad the ha.,kctball 
domt·. Thc rcqucsts arc simple enough this ycar: fill the 
arena half an hour rrior to tip-off with a unified body of 
studcnts chanting· AHUSE." 
Studt·nts arc also t·ncouragt·d to show support fi>r 
their team. their fellow-studcnts. It's not much to ask. 

Tim Andree Tracyjackson john Paxson Kelly Tripucka Orlando Woolridge 
... 
The Observer Thursday, February 5, 1981 -_page 10 
On Saturday 
Irish fencers host meet 
ByJIMLEOUS 
Sports Writer 
Just in case you think the Notre Dame-UCLA basketball game is the only thing going on this weekend, stop by the ACC fencing gym at ll 
a.m. on Saturday and the Irish fen­cing team will prove you wrong. 
The undefeated Irish fencers will 
try to extend their 5-0 record as they 
meet Chicagci Circle, Tri State, and 
Wisconsin Parkside. 
Last weekend, the fencing squad 
met Case Western Reserve and a 
tough Ohio State team. The team 
handily defeated Case Western 19-8. 
Notre Dame had a more difficult time against Ohio State, finishing 21­
13. Coach Mike DeCicco said that Ohio State's epee team was probably the best teain the fencers will see this year. 
Kevin Tindell. Rich Daly, and Ola Harstrom all went 4-l in epee com­petition over the weekend, pacing the epee team to a 6-3 win over Case and a 7-2 win over Ohio State. Kevin Tindell went 3-0 against Ohio State. 
The foil team defeated Ohio State 5-4, and Case Western 7-2, with Jim Thompson's 3-0 tally leadiog the way. Both Mark DeJong and Ray Benson went 3-l in the foil. 
A problem-plagued sabre team edged Ohio State 9-7. Three of the squad's four sabre men had a bout with the flu last week. 
Coach DeCicco also cited one 
possible problem as his men were 
dealing with what they thought was 
continuedfrom page 12 
our minds we were looking ahead just a little bit, and as a result, we were flat. But it's over, and now we can get on to UCLA." 

:·········· ·························································:
. 
... the new s.u. coffeehouse .;. needs a name and a logo ;.
,....................................................... ·······••.
. 
$25 prize ~ for the winning design ~ 
,..···· ·....S~bmit..prop·osais··to...····.., 
·: s.u. office by feb. 16 . 
······•·········•·•··•·········••··•··•·········•··········•··••·•··· 
an inept director. 

"He wasn't calling the hits the way 
we were used to," said DeCicco. 
"We should have tried to adjust our 
game instead oftrying to fight him. 

"We are now physically fit again and 
hopefully we will have no problem winning," said DeCicco about the upcoming weekend match. "We need a big weekend to prepare for our remaining meets for the rest of February." 
• • .LaSalle 

Oddly enough, that was the last thing Digger said last night, too. 
"We looked tired at the end tonight," said Phelps, who now has 199 victories at Notre Dame. "We've had three games in the last week, so we're going to take it easy tomor­row, look at a lot of films, go hard Friday, practice lightly on Saturday, and then get ready for the show on Sunday." 
IRISH ITEMS: Last night's win was · Notre Dame's ninth in ten meetings 
with LaSalle. The lone setback was last season's 62-60 loss at the Palestra... Last night's win was also the 13th straight at the ACC. The ACC record is 24 straight...The Irish are a perfect 12-0 at home this year. The last time they went through the season undefeated at home was the 1973-74 season... Notre Dame's three senior captains continue their assult on the Irish record books. In all likelihood, Tracy Jackson will pass Ron Reed, and Woolridge will pass Bill Paterno on the all-time scoring list against UCLA. Jackson needs three points to take over 16th place, and Woolridge need three to take 18th...Kelly Tripucka should also be making a move soon. He needs 22 points to take over the fifth spot on the all-time scoring charts. 
• • .Wilcox 
continuedfrom page 12 

"There just isn't anywhere here to put a set ofdrums," grins Wilcox. 
There is also a lot of "The City" embedded in Stan Wilcox. His love for New York is difficult to conceal. 
"New York, and especially Man­hattan, is the greatest town in the world. You can find anything you want there. I would love to get a job and settle down somewhere in Man­hattan." 
Which raises the question of the future. 
"Well," Wilcox begins, "I'd like to play some more basketball, maybe two years in Europe. It's just that I feel I still have a lot of basketball inside ofme, and I'd like to get it out before I settle down. 
"After that, I'm going to New York, either to get a master's in economics at New York University, or to find that job and live in Manhat­tan." 
Sitting and talking with Stan Wil­
cox, one cannot help believing he 
will do exactly what he says. Notre 
Dame has caused him to meet chal­
lenge after challenge. And he has, 
time after time -without com­
plaint. It's kind ofnice to know we'll 
be seeing a bit more of him on the 
court than usual. 


Fr. Hesburgh watches Our Lady's cagers from the bench at last night's game. (photo by Chris Salvino) 
Rzcquetball Pairings 
MEN'S DOUBLES RACQUETBALL PAIRINGS 

Meaking. Campbell ( !161 )-vs: McDonald (7687) Meehan ( 1164) Jackman (8927), Young (234-33L! ~ Baesen ( 1694) Burton ( 1736) Beutler. Cymha1uck ( 1802) vs. Fatum {6824) Fullmer (3104) Kirn (3479} Dean (87H) vs. Phillips (l430)Bell(B74) Stiglmdr ( 820~) LaChance (8207) vs. Rcgali ( 1654) Power (6718) Eisengru1ar (3264) Kaivis (3263) vs. Schmitz. Wolfe ( 1670) Helle (1152) Grothaus (283·1152) vs. Martinez (8646)Johnston ( 8637) Foley, Wayne (8860) vs. Moeller (8657) Maladz (8700) Brassard (2.i2·2578) Onulrak (233­6891) vs. Desautnicrs ( 1655) Carroll 
(6802) Eversman (3260) Brown ( 3264) vs. O"Brien (6855) Payne (6709) Hatfield ( 1212) butler ( 1210) vs. Nolan, O'Neil(l791) Wagner, Atwell ( 1462) vs. Kaput {8728) Norris ( 8720) Phillip ( 1752) Hori ( 1747) vs. Cerise (6268) McKenna ( 1700) Hoolihan (3222) Fessler ( 6431) vs. Hoes­sen ( 1694) Burton ( 1736) Pfau. Pierce ( 1424) vs. Snyder. Rademaker (3574) 
WOMEN'S DOUBLES RACQUETBALL PAIRINGS 
Muller, Henson ( 791 5) vs. Salvador ( 1258) Talamar ( 1259) McHugh ( 4583) Sorapure (6762) vs. Gal­lagher, Hartman (6877) 
Sports Brie s 
by The Ohrt!rt't'r and Tht• A IJijCJtJit-d Pn.rr 
This year's Notre Dame basketball banquet is scheduled for Monday, March 9, in the ACC. Cocktails start at 6:30 
p.m. with dinner at 7:30. Tickets are available for S15 each and may be reserved by sending a check to the Notre Dame Basketball Banquet, Notre Dame Ticket Office, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. -The Observer 
Senior Chuck Aragon, an all-American middle dis­tance runner for Joe Piane's Irish tracksters, has already qualified for the upcoming NCAA indoor championships in March. The Los Lunas, N.M., native ran a I:52.2 in the 880-yard race to qualify over Christmas break at East Tennessee State. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC ski team competed in two races last weekend. Terri Meyer, a Saint Mary's freshman, turned in a fantastic performance both Saturday in the Ripcho-Wilson Memorial Race and Sunday in the Michigan Governor's Cup. Meyer won three gold medals, one silver, and the combined championship in the Michigan Governor's Cup. The Notre Dame men's team placed fourth out of a field of 17 teams Saturday behind strong performances by A-team skiers Mike Maas, Mike Tuohy, Mike Case, Sean Chandler and Craig Peters. Sunday's highlights included a 10-minute Governor's Cup Championship and another maura-less race. -The Observer 
A pre-UCLA pep rally will be held Saturday at 7:30 
p.m. in the ACC Pit. Featured speakers include Coach Digger Phelps, tri-captains Kelly Tripucka, Orlando Woolridge, and T -.cy Jackson. Also on hand as guest speaker will be the new head coach ofthe Fight­ing Irish football team, Gerry Faust. Students are asked to enter and exit the ACC through Gate 1 only. -The Observer 

_TJ;mrsday, February 5, 198(•...:.. pagd 11. 
Allt'l.l:iO.,IIIed arts n·LI!:.IIJt~ ICCf'l\ot!r1 hoy 4 45 p n1 IWIJ ctJ\o"i pr~o· ~0 thp 
•ssm' 111 WllH:I1 ltlf' ,,:J •~ rtm The Observer otf1ce wdl -"CU!PI r.rass,t•ed~ 
Mo11Ciih thrOLJ(jh Frldav 10 no ol r'l' IO 4 45 p m A. II claS';)IIIP.ds musl hP. 
prt•·ptwl f'llher m PfH'iCHI or rhrouqll The mdtl
ClaSSifieds 
·> 

MAI.E NEEDED TO RENT apanment Willing to trade season tix S for 2 
THE SECOND <;rrv IS HERE!!!NOTICES with three others. Furnished, fully UCLA GA'scali Jack 1208 them on You've Johnny Max
You've seen TV! 
Kris, 

secure, S90/mo. & ekctrkity. Notre Don't be nervous and good tu(..·k
seen them in Chicago! Now sec them May the sun shine warm upon your

Dame Avenue Apartments. Cali My Father "Mr. GUGLIELMI" will A friend and a friend's fri<'nd PROHSSIONAI. TYPING. Term live at St. Mary's ()'Laughlin. fu.~c today. There's a lot in your heart
Brian at 8920 after 10 p.m. make you an offer you CANNOT Auditorium. Thursday, February 5 at 
papers, theM'S, etc. Tape transcrlp· worth keeping. Have a nice day!
refuse! Please call Kathy 6889 NOW! Lefty.
8p.m. 
love,

lion. I.a." year's .arne low prices. Ali I need 2 G.A. UCLA tlx. How 'huut y<Hif binhday?
l>i<'go What do JOHN BEUISHI, DAN AYK· 
work guaranteed. aardvark McGrath 
automatic solutions. 289·6753. 
Uke hundreds ofothers, 1am getting
~NTED 
ROYI>, JANE CURTIN AND GILDA 

desperate for a pair of UCLA GA's, Moost· jokes diSt.·rtmln;~te aRainM the
RADNER have in common? They ali

The Thurs. 8·9 and Thur.. 9-1 0 BUT check my price first. Call Mike Muck-otht·r species. How about pc.·nKuins
staned in the Second City comedy

mlxology cla.•ses will have their first I Will pay U for Boston U G. A.'s on Put a smile on your face and keep it -Ihey get no respe<·t.Feh. I 0. Call Traccy ~206 (SMC) troupe. See them at St. Mary's
at 1601. 

meeting at their re•pt·ctlve hours in place! 
O'l.aughlin Auditorium on Thursday Purple
this I"hursday In the llai!Kar !tall Need 3GA UCLA tix. Call SMC 4779. PenM,uins an: pomp<HI!'l Moost· are My father will sell his soul (gnod at 8 p.m. (C'mon, you missed Mk·
Auditorium. These dasses ar~ elegant! clo!oCll, only thosc studt·nts who 
Hluc· Book value) for just onc, ONE, hacl Stanley three months ago and he 
TWO UCLA AUIMNI Will. PAY
measly UCLA GA tkkct, anywhcre has a song in the Top Forty already.
rq~lst<·red may attend. Anne.· Ues.."ilau,
MEGA-BUCKS TO SEE THE BRUINS John McGrath:
Don't mess up this c.:hann~ to see

inside the an·na -Is willing to You bt.•tter be.· reading the personals
GET WHIPPED IN THE ACC. CAll just be'-·ausc: you arc.· u~c.·d to friKid 
MOM AND DAD WANT TO SEE sweep Ooor at halftime, or danc.·e tomorrow's stars 10day!) in Washington, D.C.
JIMAT4613. women doesn't mc.·an you have.· to 
liCI.A CiAME. DON'T LET ME DISAP· with Dancing Irish If necessary. Call Us turn to penguins...
For thc best in IMPROVISATIONAL

POINT TIWM! IF YOll HAVE ZGA'S, TJ at 3207. Pronto. 
I nccd 2 or 4 G.A. Tickets for U.C.I..A. Mr. Ver Bt·rkmoc:~
COMEDY comc see SE<:<>ND CITYCAIJ. TIIERJ;SA AT 6868. 

Call Don at 1143.
Need nperienccd guitar teachcr to in ()'Laughlin Auditorium. Thursday Attention: Finance Club Members! 
Noisy Knees: 
at8p.m.NEED 2 UCLA GA's.Would like to ex­night of horcdom.
Need a RIJ)~ TO ST. LOlliS and hack teach h<•ginner. Will pay. Call Jim at See where your dues arc going and Prepare for a 
for any weekend. Will •hare ex· 6822. attend a Finance Cluh bash, to be
change for 2 or 3 Student tix and/ or Oh well, you can always s mel! I he CI!KS. penHeN. Call Ma<· at 1213. held at 823 N.D. Ave Thursday night
Happy birthday, Paul "l.t•fry" Mul­US. Call Mary-6747. l.ovc,
laney! May you continut-to elude

liRGiiNT! Need ride to Columbus, (Feb. ~ ). Eat, drink and measure your 
TumaUlJukc: A"ITENTION! THURSDAY NIGHT 0, this weekend. Can leaw anytime future competition in the job
death as successfully a.• you have For Sale: 4 padded G.A.'s to lJ.C.LA. 
thus far!

IIOWUNG I.EAGliE NOW FOR· Fri. 2/6. Call Rita 1,'144. market.
CHEAP! Call between midnit<· and 6 Hey, l.ike Jono,
scoop and the thursday nile staffMINe;! CONSISTS OF ~-MAN 

a.m. Jim 3637. My phone's working. lbppy l"F.AMS, STARTING IN EARLY ARTISTS! ARTISTS! ARTISTS! The ANN -CONGRATlii.ATIONS ON 
Valentine's [)ay1 FI;BRIIARY fOR INFORMATION Collegiate Jazz festival needs you to THE NEW JOB, WE'RE All PROUD l.uve,
Need many l!Cl.A tix Student or G.A. 
Anyone interested In workingCall !lob at J 744.
OR TO TURN IN TEAM ROSTf.RS design T-Shins, IA>gos, etc. If you OF YOU!!! Misso 
CALL RAY AT 6652 OR TOM AT have and Ideas or ~ugMestions please layout, news reporting, computer ~039. submit th.-m to Student Activities in systems, day editing, beer consump· BEWARE DOMERS!l! John (the
I desperately need 4 GA and 2 stu· l.ambchop,
lion, debauchery and otherwise

Lafortune or c.·all Sandy Pancoe at REI'TII.E) Saigh is ba<·k lurking in the
dent ND·Dayton tkkets!!l Will pay a great with Love..· sumerimt.·s can he..· hHnd, I'm
have time some de·

See lht· l><·st kgs on <·ampus! TRACK 6169. You will he rewarded if your shadows, gunning for the title of
US. Pleast· call l.lza at 12~8. glad I opened my eyt·s. \fEET, l'rlday night undt·r lht· lights. t.lc.•sign is t.·hosc.·n!!!!!!!! mented people at The Observer, liMOC!l No slimey, spineless 
should come to tht.; genc.:ral nu:eting ever dt·scrvec.t more!!!
ACC Hpm. 50 KEGS!!! Dring your creature it
Need two UCLA tkkets. Will pay U. own mug.' and c.Hrty laundry! 
NEED RIDE TO ST. LOUIS AREA tonight at 8 p.m. in Th<· Observer VOTE REPTII.E FOR UMOC. 
Calli I 54. John Pax~on,
THIS WEEKEND. CAI.L287-6934. office, third floor of LaFortune or call John at I71 5. This lndude~ all Care, rhanks for "whatever"!! Me We apulogizc...· from the..· vc..·ry hul· POETRY CONTF.ST -J7~ IN 
Nc:ed UCI.A tix -I GA and I stu­tom of our heans for losing the
WANTED: RIDE FOR TWO TO recent additions to our t•steemedPRIZt:~. SEND NAMF. ADDRESS J1 
dent. Pleast· <"all Alice at I 285. "anion" shot nfyou. Wc:'ll pur nne in
ranks.

IIANDUNG FEE PloR/POEM AND DAYTONA !lEACH FOR SPRING Be there or die. DEAR DAD, Thursday.
BREAK. WILL SHARE COSTS. CALL (Refreshments will be served). READ
S.A.S.F.. IIY MARCil I TO IIIP· IF YOll THIS AD WIIII.E
FOR SALE: I IICLA Student tix. Best Margaret & Kathy
scoop

POC.RENE BOX 212 NOTRE DAM!; 1270. RELAXING WITit th<' ohst·rver
offer. Call Pat at 3089. 
IN 46~~6 PLEASE SEND MONJ;Y!!! IF I DON'T 
John Macor

RECIEVE ANY MONEY ( AT LEAST
BIG llliX FOR DAYTON TIXI ITS Uow could you??? You'vl' c.Hsap­
LEtTY-HAPPY 22ND, SORRY WE Jl0 ) BY FEB. 13, 1'1.1. KNOW

NOT TOO EARLY TO SEll.! STli­pointed lhc.: ll'bolt• IC:malc..-popula·
COlll.ON'T PARTY LIKE l.AST 
YOli'VE STOPPED READING OliR

DENT OR GA STEVE 3369 lion. \\'orsc yc:t, you'vt· hrokcn
YEAR!!!! IIETH 
PAPER!!!! 

MarKarcfs heart -om: kss pix furYOUR POOR POOR SON. 
her).P. album. (Sec ahovt· pt·rsonal) LOST: GOU> AND PEARl. 
-For Salc 1974 AMC Hornct. Good TIM (REMEMBER ME) Condition. SZOO DOMER.~ WANTED for voluptuous I'.S. HI MOM ........ . 
IIRACHET AT OR ON TilE WAY TO Nt•t•d riders going t·a.•t on 1-80 as far
-~ woman. 5'2, clear blue eyes, light
[ PERSONALS
Till: SAN FRANCIS<:o BASKETIIAU. as exlt42 in l'a.l.eavlng Wednc:stlay,
RdriM,entor for ~ale..·. Grt'at for kegs. hrown curly hair, and an lncrc..·diblc U.C.LA. llliT ONLY THROUGH TilE
GAM I;. II' FOl INU PLEASE C:AI.L ...-·-··----Feh. 18, returning lat<' Sunday night
d<·sire for an cxccllent time! Call to

S 30. Call 6823. SMOG!!!!!!
128·1. REWARD. 
Final destination: Alkntown.I'A. Call
mct·t this exquisite knockout! Anne · Mik<' at 4~79
41-~323

l.tJ!III. FOR SALE: 1978 HONDA HAWK I INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS CHICKEN IS THE TWINKlE MAN' 
AnyunC" who ha~ info about a pair of MOTORCYCLE 400 cc RINGS, SZO· S8~ OR MORE. WI! lky, Chris
A"rrENTION PRE-PROFESSIONALS: 

AliTOM"TIC S 600. CALL 283-MAKE HOUSE CALLS. 255-2402. Happy 22nd! 3472. xxxoon, 
wire..· frame: tcla.'iSC!'o found a1 lkndtx Where arc thost• lcttt·r.i? My mall­
EAT EARLY

Woods on l'rlday, Jan. B. plea.•e call box S<.·rc..·ams for c:omp;mionshlp ­
The .lnd Pre-professional dub mtg jane..·
Jim at .'1260. Reward if found or Will pay U fur Boston U G.A.'s on OL"i do I! Keep those: habit's c.:oming.
FOR SALE: 1974 Mt'r<·ury Cougar. Feb. 10. CaU Tracey (SMC) will he held on Thursday, Feh. ~at 6
~206
rc..·turnc.·dl!! There's still 30 days kft, so don't for­
Call2724. Mt·gK-p.m. in 127 NSH. Topks: Organita· Moose c:ontrol, 
g<.'l about me. 
Red Draw Two...llno!! lion (officers & n>mmittces ), sign· Do yullj!<'t the "picturc"?
LOST: ONE I'AIR Of MEN'S GU>VES Who mse?
FOR SALE: Nikon F camera with T.n. up for Loyola Med School tour,. the clue man
ON ST. MARY'S StllJTTI.E. 1\EIGI'. 
~Omm f/2 kns, Sl50. lOOmm lens Flannt·r 6-A · Physician lecturers, Smoker atWITH IIROWN SlJFDE FACING. IF Gond MorninK. Donna!
for Nikon, J40. Pete 389~. What the hell is ERNDT!? Senior Bar and kick-oil Happy hour. Oft·oursc! That's why I'm in control!
FOIINIJ, PLEASE CALLBOIIBY I068. Have a thrilling Thursday. llrsa
Also sign-up for Physic and OrganicThe Gang Major and Janus. (Yt·s, Ibis means

FOR SALE -STANLEY KAPI.AN study sessions will be hdd again. smc.· seniors, get ready for the at YOII! This is not a drill!)
NOW IS THE TIME FOR ALL PRE· Valentine's Day semi-formalMCAT ROOKS. EXCELU;NT CON­
HELP"! IIAVE LOST 2 rint~-' Ja.,l I>ITION AND GOOD PRICE. CALL 
PROFESSSIONALS TO COME TO Erskine C.C.
wct·k. a I'l8tl l>allas Jesuit ring, TO AU. OBSERVER EMPLOYEES: IF To Mc.-c:gle and his ''apoartmt·nt
THE AID Of THmR ClliB!!! Tix on sale Friday I0-12, Sun. 4-6
uutsic.k Morris..'ley -the other, a JANET l77·7776 YOU IIAVE NOT PICKED liP YOUR matc:s" 
p.m.. and Tues. 6-8 p.m. In l.cMans

gold Initial ring wilh lettcrs R. LS. W-2 FORM FOR 1980 PLEASE DO (You all sound alike on thc
MJI)GE, MOM, AND TilE GANG. lobhy.
PI.EASJ; -lh<'M' ring.' have great SO; IT IS AVAILABLE FROM SHIRLEY phone!) Come hy and sc.-me some
THANKS FOR SATURDAY NIGIIT, Limited tix. 
IN TtlE OBSERVER OFFICE FROM 9·
M'nlim<"ntal valut· and I will rt'lease time!
[
----··-.;~ IT WAS GREAT!!
frult'n assc.·1~ fCJr thdr rc..·turn ~­
Uttlel'ox
TIIEGIJYS 2 I 3 Grace -here It is!!· Your long·( llt'sidt·s, I have alerted i<Kal pawn TICKE~ 
awaited Observer personalis now In

shops) lkal with Roh, 3678, 12~ The..· Advcnturc..·s of a Boring Pc:rson, Margaretprint. See, Jeff> You do have clout,Mt,rri:-l"'t·y Part II 
Thank.~ for the insh.lc..-tour of your
IIOW 'BOUT YOUR 22ND even ifChachl & Georgc(the famous
Need 2 GA Dayton Tickets... Call (just when you thought it was saft·to 
hangom. Now I know all your I"'"' Autograplwd football, Gift for St·crcts. Thank!>., too, for all your 
---------:-------!.aura at 6 791 go back to pt.·rsonals, dcmc:ntJa IIIRTHDAY, LEtTY??? SCIIMITZIE Grace submarines) don't. Ed & Tom 
deserve too, gc..·tting 

~
little brotht·r in hospital l.ost day, ~------:,---llf';,----strikes ht·anlcssly again... ) AND: _____________ TilE PENGUIN -~cntion, fur 
li.t~-­
stuck lf1 those great"intro" electives

hdore hrt·ak Plnst· call Mikt·, 1474. NEED 2 GATICKETS fOR NIHICLA Th<· yellow kaf laid frozen h<:neath Your Roomie..·
llappy B-Day Paul Mullan<·y! with me. Oh, yeah -Bob, clean up
Rt·ward. DASKJ;TBALI. GAME. PLEASE CAU. the still white blanket of Icc, dozing Your friends from BP your room! And for Tony & Haw­
SIIIRLEY AT 8661 OR 171 ~BEFORE patknlly atop the tundra, secured in 
llcth,
keye, I'll sign this simply...

CAI.CliUJS IIOOK, 2ND J;I)JTION, ~PM. the suspcnded snapshot-like anima. 
I've got to return thc favor andThe Des Moines Connection
FOUND IN ACC LOCKER ROOM. tlon of solid liquid, whik the scar­R.A.B. send you a personal. Sorry thisI SOCIAL CONCERNS fiLM SERIES
C:ALL8722. NEU> UCLA GA'S-CAI.I. MATT AT ring blasts of hail-strewn wind docsn't have the dass that yours did.
CONTINUES NEXT WEEK. GET

232-0921. clawed despt·ratcly from ah<>ve. ln­CONCERNED! llappy Binhday Paul! 
l'hc Goddess I.OST: at thc after-the-Kct·nan 
not.·cm humans trudgc..·d unknowing· I thought ah<>ut making It a ~ 
Rc..·virw Party in lht· h~cment of WANTED: I UCLA TICKET, STU­ly over the frozen world, -------------~-Pam,
HIDDEN HEARTS? ASK A ZAIIMBIE. column headline on the front pagelcathcr·h<><>ted and garbed in syn·
Kt·t·nan HalL One pair ofdark hrown DENT OR GA. PI.F.ASE CAI.L PAT AT I couldn't lc:avc you out aftc..·r all
-but the Editor-In-Chief would Hrc 

lcathrr gloves with fur lining.•. If you 277-8727 thctk fibc:rs. our escapades togethc..·r, so -ht·rc.·'s
"10" me!
The leaf, named l.eaf. waited patient­STARRINGBO Love,
have found tht·m. PI.EASE'. Pl.F.ASE!. your very own personal! 
rt·turn 1hcm ht.·fore my finJe.t·r~ gt·t IX'ANTED: ONE STUDENT TICKET ly for the day of warming. when he F.ngjneering A.uc..litoriurn Thn,;.u 
TllliRS. & I'RI. 7,9,1 I Margk
TO TilE UCI.A GAME. Wll.l. PAY could rise from thc wasteland and
fosthitel Plea.'e call Susan al l77· P.S.: Want to rc..·ndezvous al tlw
ENG..SI H8W US lluddlc afterwards?
US. CALI. MICHEI.I.E AT l.i63. lay sicge to the tundra agaln,lunging 
To Mike ford,

out and ripping the viscera from the Uerc it is -your long-awaitedDame's sixth If Need 2 tix for UCLA game. Call abdomens of his tormentors.
l.OST. Notrt· man. Zam, personal. Nuw how about one for Tracie & Judy, found, plt-al't:' c.Jclivt·r to South l>umc Eileen at 8042. llut that was silly. It wa.< only a yel­Thank:-. fnr your patic..'nn.·. your
In our eyes -you're still 1 and mel
low leaf, after all.
of ACC hy I p.m. Sunday. Reward cars and your tdc..·phunc.·.
you've got our vote ALL THE WAY! Pam 
will b~ (;RJ;AT! IlLES.~ ME WITH I PAIR UCI.A STU· Night Owl
We love you, P.S. -I have not been avoiding you!
l>t:NT OR GAs. RECF.IVE UU CALL PAUL MULLANEY·· HAPPY The Angels
GREG 2754 IOPM OR LATER BIRTIIDAY!!!! Gandalf, whc..·re arc you?fH
Mike -Arc you ready for act II of
Love, 
the "Conservative Republican

N<·ed 2 GA UCI.A tickets. Call 1284. llcth Pal City
FOR RENT _ THANKS TO ALl. WHO CAME TO l"'ok?" 
-.------~-_..:, ____ 
Wherc arc you when lluty <·ails?
TilE HAPPY HOUR SATURDAY. INeed Two liCI.A GAs. Call Bob at 

Whc:rc arc your luyahit.'s? WhL·rc..· an· 1201. To Paul, WISH I COULD ACKNOWLEDGE Maurcc:n and Sue, 
Furni!'iihcd house.· for rem a t.·ouple J'ou?I'm lost...
EVERY ONE OF YOU BUT THEN Get fired up kids, the parcnts arcllappy Birthday to a very special
hlo<·k• from <·ampu• and furnish<·d PERSONAL NEVER c.:oming!
THIS WOUI.D

I need UCLA GA or Stdnt TIX. person.
nmntry huust.· for rc..·m, 1.2: minutes Mama Garafalo, 
END. JUST KNOW YOU ARE THE

PLEASE CAll. TOM t700 Pam
to N.D. 277-.'1604, 288-0955. You really would be a great Mom.
HI, Beast!
GREATEST GROUP OF FRIENDSP.S. -I owe you a beer How 'hout Saturday??? My pla<·e.....

AND I LOVE YOU ALI.!

I NEED UCLA TIX-SUJOE 1142
Nlc:t· hou~t·s for rent for next S«.:hocJI Lefry, You un hrlng the shrimp. I'll
LITI"LE GOOSEWow! I wish I wen· an editor and 

year or summt·r. l'urnlshed, good Massivt· sex on your 22nd. provide the appetite. 
UCLA TIX -NEED 2 PAIR GA TIX could get every hcer I was owed!
nelghh<>rhood, close to campus. 
Lover Girl

CAll. 277-685~ AFTER~ Moost· Control
277·.'\M~. 288·0955. H01:nelcss rats unite
BOB COONEY AND TliAM MEM· fight againsl mouse..· abuse..·! Fir.it
Best returns ofthe day, Lefty 
IIERS -KEEP UP THE WINNING 4 Farley FoxesDESPERATELY!!!!Need many ND­
ltuuscs for rent H 1-82 school year. general meeting at 6:00, 60 I Corhy.
TRADITION TONIGHT THAT Sleep a little louder next time soDayton tickets!! Prefer GA's but also JE T'AIME! Say it with carnations.
Clo~c lo c.·ampus, good nmdltiun, But beware of the knife-happy BiAAJ'
MAKES YOU GUYS I!!!!!! I'U know you're there' (I don't knowneed some student tickets. Will pay SMC French Club pre-Valentine's
panIally furnished. Call 287-5361 af­Bill Myler.) PiAAY 
ler6 p.m. fair price. Plea.•c call Maureen at flower sale. Feb. 5 & 6 SMC dining 272-0484. hall & LeMans lohby. 
Mister Lefty: Avisitor Now that you are old, you can pon· 
Q' What is the peskiest insect In the for R~nt: large, four bedroom, par· HI, John Greer Yukon?
der your past and d<·bate your Jon·

What's a UCI.AN?
DESPERATELY NEED 2 UCLA GA's.
!Ially furnished house. Alarm system A: The moosequito, as one might ex·
gevlty (thats what she said). TheWILL PAY MEGA-BUCKS!!' please

available. 2H3-8702 peel!
happiest of days to you. May you Mike Onufrak,
call susan or anne at6409. 
(Thanks again to Jeff Moore. R.C.
avoid all that is moose. I'll huy th<: next round at SeniorTUTOR NEEDED · Freshman in h.s.,
Available for neXI ~<:hool year: 2 llvc­yours In sexism; Bar in honor ofyour anlstlc creation Rt·ntner, arc you still walchlng?) 
Needed two UCI.A GA's. Will pay 1st ) car French. Contact Volunteer 
Moost• <:omrnl
bcdroum house~. ncar ND, lease, Monster Ryan (oops, mayhe Bridget's) Thanks.
US. Call 10~0. Services, 7308.
depoNit, H4-2626. 
You Know Who 


Thursday, February 5, 1981 -page 12 
1---·· ~ 
Notre Datne cotnes back to defeat LaSalle, 60-59 
By MARK HANNUKSELA 
Sports Writer 
Digger Phelps said yesterday that the key to last night's game against LaSalle was going to be the flrst six minutes ofeach half. As usual, he was right. 
Notre Dame went from three down at halftime to nine up at the 14 minute mark of the second half, and then held offthe pesky Explorers the rest ofthe way in registering a 60-59 win at the ACC. 
Once again, Kelly Tripucka led Irish scorers, collecting 19points in 38 minutes ofaction. 
Tracy Jackson added 14 points, and Orlando Woolridge 12, to this 16th Irish victory of the season. 
Stanley William1>, a 6-8 senior 
from Clayton, NJ, led the LaSalle 
scoring parade with 1 7 points. Kevin 
Lynam and Don Word also scored in 
double figures for Coach Lefty Er­
vin's Explorer club, adding 11 and 
I 0 points rt·spectively. 
Down 33-30 at the half, Notre Dame went on a 16-4 spurt that gave them a 46-37 lead. A 15-foot jumper from the right of the key by Orlando Woolridge gave Notre Dame the 
lead for good at the I 7:50 mark of the half. 
Ordinarily, streaks of this sort are the result of a good chewing out from Phelps. Last night was different, and for a very big reason. 
University president Fr. Theodore Hesburgh was a guest of Phelps on the bench last night. He was also in the lockerroom at halftime. 
"I really couldn't say too much with Father there," said Phelps when asked about his halftime speech. "I did all my yelling and swearing in · the Pit, preparing for the game. I had to watch myselftonight." 
"You know it's a big game to me, though, when you see the President ofthe University out there." 
Indeed, it was a big game against a LaSalle team that only lost to third­ranked DePaul by seven points. And it was also a big game because of its place on the Irish schedule. 
"These guys always seem to catch us at the right time," said Phelps aftwerwards. "They beat us last year when we were coming off a big win over Maryland, and they caught us this year right before UCLA. I've al­ways said you've got to play smart against the South Carolina's, the LaSalle's, the Dayton's, or you're going to find yourselfgetting beat." 
"You can't take anything-away from LaSalle, though," he continued. "They played a smart, ball-control game. And we didn't play well-just well enough to win." 
Ervin, in his second year at the 
LaSalle helm, was pleased with his 
team's perfomance. 

"I'm very pleased with the way we played," he said. "We played a solid game against an excellent team. I think we were in control of the tempo ofthe game, for the most part. We contained the lion." 
"There's no question that the tur­ning point was the flrst flve minutes of the second half," said Ervin. "I think we ran too fast a pace for about two minutes, and that hurt us. We're just not a good transition team." 
"We also missed six free throws at the beginning of the half. They call that the charity line, and we didn't cash in." 
Wilcox: happy with role as Irish sub 
By ARMAND KORNFELD .. 
Sports Writer 
The Irish walked overSaint Mary's 
ofCalifornia Tuesday night, meeting 
with little resistance. The game was 
not close, and actually, was not espe­
cially exciting. They why mention 
it? What was special about an easy 
94-63 win? 
It was special for seldom-used 
Stan Wilcox, the 6-3 senior guard 
from Long Island. He scored eight 
points for a season high. 
Nothing has come easy for Wilcox 
since beginning at Notre Dame al­
most four years ago. At first it was 
academics. 
"I was much more worried initial­
ly about making it academically here 
than I was about basketball. It was a 
big shock for me, but I feel I have 
grown into a sound student over the 
years. Part of the reason I came to 
Notre Dame was to learn." 
Of course, basketball has con­tinued to play a large role in Wil­. cox's life, and even the familiar has 
been a challenge at Notre Dame. 
"When I came to Notre Dame, I 
had to learn a new position: point 
guard. I was more of a shooter in 
high school, but Digger wants his 
guards to be more in control, to run 
the team. 
"I had to adjust to that. But I 
believe it's good to learn the leader­
ship role because if one goes on to 

rhe pros, that is what teams want. All 
your premier guards in the NBA arc floor leaders. I came here seeking to become one," says Wilcox. 
Now Wilcox is a senior comingoff the bench from time to time in spe­cial instances. No one could blame him for being discouraged, perhaps even somewhat bitter about his limited playing time. Instead, though, he accepts his situation philosophically. 
"You can't try to flght it. I have come to accept my role, and I feel it is an important one. The way Digger coaches, using a lot ofsubstitutions, you have to always be prepared. You just never know when you might be playing, and I think that helps make the role an easier one to accept." 
Nevertheless, Wilcox could not have been sorry to hear Digger Phelps' comment following the Saint Mary's game. 
Phelps was speaking to reporters about his bench, and said, "We're trying to get more playing time for junior Mike Mitchell and senior Stan Wilcox, and I was very happy with their backcourt play." 
There is another side to Stan Wil­cox besides basketball. He is a drum­mer, and a good one at that. He has been playing since the age of nine, and was even a member of a band while in high school. Since coming to Notre Dame, however, he has been forced to play less. 
See wn.cox, page 10 

Kelly Tripucka drives to the hoop during last night's 60-59 victory
See LASALLE, page 10 

overscrappy LaSalle. (photo by Chris Salvino) 
Sir Phelps rescues Domerland 
In sharp contrast to his liberal sub­stitution policy, Phelps played vir­tually the entire second half with one unit on the floor. 
Woolridge, Jackson, Tripucka, John Paxson, and Bill Varner were Digger's flve second-half starters, and, with the exception of the 2:32 that freshman Joe Kleine spelled "The Tree", were on the floor toget­her as a unit throughout the period. 
"I just didn't like the tempo ofthe game," explained Phelps afterwards. "Varner is our press player, so when we went to the press, we went with Billy. I just couldn't afford to go to the bench the way things were going. We can't run the press and have Kleine or Andree in the game, so that's why we only got 13 minutes out ofthem." 
Irish tri-captain Woolridge, who once again sparked the crowd with a couple of gorilia slam-dunks, spoke for all his teammates after the game, when he·said, "I'm just glad to get this one OVER. Maybe in the back of 
"1'"'""""" 

Once upon a time, in the kingdom of Domerland, 
there was a problem. It seems that there was this 
wicked wizard named Wooden who took pleasure in 
embarassing the fair community in the war games 
which were staged twice a year. 

"Whatever can we do to stop this flend?" wailed King 
Ted of Hesburgh to his favorite knight, Sir Nedmund of 
Joyce. And along with trusted advisor, Lord Moose of 
Krause, they worried and wondered... 
Until one day a brash young warrior appeared at the 
castle and boldly proclaimed: 

"I am Sir Richard of Phelps and I will defeat Wooden 
the Wizard if you'll only give me a chance -and a nice 
salary, a car, a new wardrobe and a pair ofdisgustingly 
ugly blue Pony high-tops." 

The rulers of Domerland were skeptical at flrst, but , desperation forced them to comply with Sir Richard's demands. 
"So be it," ordered King Ted. "You shall be called 
Duke Digger ofDomerland and all the kingdom shall be 
yours ifyou can defeat Wooden the Wizard." 
"Yeah," grumbled Lord Moose through a cloud of 
cigar smoke, "but could you hold offon those ugly blue 
shoes?" Duke Digger agreed, asking instead for a hot­
pink sportscoat, which the rulers grudgingly bestowed. 
"Now get out there and whip that wizard!" 
demanded KingTed, who apologized for the fact that he 
had to catch a chariot and could not stay. 
...Forsooth!" cried Duke Digger as he bounded from 
the king's inner sanctum. "I must flrst find soldiers who 
can fend off the wizard's attack." 

But alas, the flrst time he met the wizard he was not 
too successful. The flnal tally read three-score-minus­
four for Duke Digger and six-score-minus-six for the 
wizard. However, Duke Digger did not dispair. 
"We must regroup!" he told his soldiers, "and 
prepare for the crusade Wooden is certain to launch!" 
It came just a few weeks later, but the results were 
sadly similar. The bad guys won again, three-score­
minus-three to two-score-minus-eight. 
"Fear not!" he said, attempting to placate the masses 
who were starting to glance menacingly at his car. "We 
will triumph!" In his heart, however, Duke Digger 
knew that this thing was going to require time and 
patience. 

"This thing is going to require time and patience," he 
told his close associates. And he continued to work and 
plan for the victory he knew was in the offing. 
Two campaigns later that victory had still not come 
about and, as one might guess, tempers were wearing 
thin under the Dome. 

'We have gone through two calendars," wailed King 
Ted, "and still the wicked wizard prevails." Sir Ned­
mund remained silent while Lord Moose grumbled 
somethingabout at least not having to look at those ugly 

blue shoes. 

"Let us wait until the wizard comes to call on Satur­day," advised Sir Nedmund. "Perhaps our luck will change." 
"Perhaps," pondered King Ted who made Sir Ned­mund promise to call him in Madagascar with the score. 
And so it happened that, onJanuary 19 in the 1974th year of Our Lord, Duke Digger faced the Wizard in a game still mentioned with reverence by those who ac­tually witnessed it as well as those who have but heard the tale. 
Down by XI tallies with but three minutes to play, Duke Digger called time out and passionately implored his legions. 
"We can still win!" he told them. And he proceeded to outline the strategy he wanted them to employ. "Remember," were his final words, "this is your mo­ment. You can make it happen!" 
And they did. When the flnal gong sounded, Duke 
Digger was raised above the cheering masses, proud 
possessor of a four-score-minus-nine to four-score­
minus-ten conquest. 
"We have done it!" he proclaimed afterwards. "We 
have defeated wicked Wooden the Wizard!" Then he 
proceeded to accept congratulations from Sir Ned­
mund, Lord Moose and even King Ted, whc sent a mes­
senger from Madagascar bearing his blessings. 
But the celebration soon subsided for Duke Digger 
realized there was much, much more to accomplish. 
"We must plunder the wizard's kingdom!" he told his 
followers. And in ensuing years he and his forces made 
great progress. In fact, when Wooden finally abdicated 
his throne, Duke Digger seemed able to victimize 
succeeding wizards almost at will. 
But alas, these days he realizes there is more to ac­
complish. 

"We want to rule the world!" he said solumnly. 
"Everything we have done up to now will be meaning­
less ifwe cannot win it all." 
For, you see, the legacy bequeathed by Wooden ­
larger in fact than the man himself -still haunts Duke 
Digger. And he knows he will never be free ofits curse 
until he himselfwears the conqueror's crown. 
And then will Duke Digger ofDomerland live happily 
ever after. 






