
, , , Sweet Baby James -page 7 

Vol. XV, No. 95 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's Thursday, February 19, 1981 
Cicely Tyson speaks 
Students to capacity cro-wd 
.( 

plead
By MARY FRAN CAllAHAN She contended, however, Senior Copy Editor that a dream is not elusive if one ''wants it bad enough and 

not guilty
A two-hour delay did not works for it." deter a capaciry crowd last "Deep down inside, if you night from hearing Emmy really want it and you work By MARY AGNES CAREY Award winning actress Cicdy toward it, you'll get it. But you Staff reporte1· Tyson speak in the Library really haye to want it.'' ' Auditorium. The actress spoke at length Eight Saint Mary's students 
Ms. Tyson, who appeared at about the present state of the pleaded not guilry yesterday in 9:30p.m., apologetically greet­film industry. She said it is at St. ] oseph County Trafic Mis­ed a patient crowd, who re­"a very low ebb" and "going to meanor Court to charges of cieved her with a standing get worse" due to more strikes, underage drinking. Disposition
ovation. The actress could not threatened by writers and di­of the case is scheduled for 
fly to South Bend because offog rectors. She said finding work March 18. 
which closed the Michiana Re­as a black woman in film right Attorneys Michael Cotter and 
gional Airport, and consequent­now is very difficult and added John]. Muldoon, representing 
ly, she had to drive. she was lucky to have worked the defendants, and James 
Holdin~ a q_uestion and an­the past year. Korpal, of the counry prose­swer session w1th her audience, Ms. Tyson portrayed Marva cutor's office, met with JudgeMs. Tyson fielded and dodged Collins, who has been dubbed William C. Whitman. questions involving her race, Chicago's Miracle Teacher, in a ~otter mt;t with Ciry Attorney sex, personal life and acting television special airing next R1chard Hdl yesterday to dis­career. November. Ms. Collins, inci­cuss the case, but would not 
Audience members ques­dentally, will also speak in the comment on the possibiliry of tioned the actress about her Black Cultural Arts Festival-­further litigation against the acting career and the impact appearing next Wednesday at 8 ciry surrounding the strip­her race has had on her life. p.m. in the Memorial Library searching of the students. The actress explained that she Auditorium. "The Ciry's position is that had worked as a secretary and The actress stressed her sel­they've made a mistake," one day realized, "God didn ectivity regarding prospective Cotter said, "(but it has made) put me on the face of the earth roles. to bang a rypewriter. There "I know there See STUDENTS, page 3 must be something more.'' is a lot more to my race than 
Ms. Tyson then began mod­pimps, prostitutes and drug eling and received her 'lucky add1cts. I made up my mind break' into show business when then that I would not be a part an actress spotted her and of that. I had certain statements offered her work. The Emmy to make. I chose to make them Award winner said she found throu~h my work,'' she said. 

Reagan jor111ally proposes cuts 
overcoming "blackness" a Ciung her roles in Sounder, much more difficult task than The Autobiography of Miss overcoming sexual discrimina­jane Pittman, and Roots, Ms. WASHINGTON (AP) -­'(_o the applause of a political­functions of ~overnment and tion. Tyson said, "If I were to leave President Reagan urged Con­ly divided Congress, Reagan stimulate busmess growth. In 
''Whites tend to deal with here tomorrow, I would believe gress last night to "act forceful­proposed the most drastic set of declaring war on the costs and blacks before they deal with that I have made a contribution ly, and now," to cut $41 billion budget cuts ever recommended purposes offederal regulations, sex. I am dealt with as a black to mankind. " in spending and enact tax by a president, saying they he said, "Government will not first, then I am dealt with as a Ebony magazme recently reductions worth $1,500 to a were necessary to reverse the continue to subsidize individ­
woman," the actress comment­middle-income family of four course of a _government "some­uals or particular business in­ed. See TYSON, page 8 over the next three years. what out of control.'' terests where real need cannot 
Reagan said his proposal, if be demonstrated.'' 
enacted in full, would halve the Reagan met yesterday morn­inflation rate, create 3 million ing with Senat and House Enveloped in Manila jobs and balance the budget by leaders to brief them on his first 1984. formal address to Congress. e Reagan's "program for econ­promised the bipartisan group omic recovery" would put the that the rich and poor would be
Pope brings message to Philippines 
government upon an untested treated equally under his pro­path leading away from spend­gram.
MANILA Philippines (AP) -­through a securiry cordon and thoritarian President Ferdinand in
mg and regulatory trends that His proposed cuts the Pope ] ohn Paul II urged Chma dashed toward him. Securiry E. Marcos on Tuesday that date back almost 50 years to fiscal 1982 budget, which takes 
yesterday to resume ties with agents grabbed him but Calug­human rights violations cannot Franklin Roosevelt and the New effect October 1, represent the 
the Roman Catholic Church, cug said he got a papal em­be justified. Deal. greatest reduction any presi­bore a message of comfort to brace. The pope's plea to China to 
''There is nothing wrong with dent has recommended in fed­
Manila's poorest slum dwellers "I kissed his hand and told forget the past and re-estab­America that we can't fix," he eral spending, although the and watched panicked securiry him I loved him very much," lish friendly relations with the declared. budget of $695. 5 billion would guards subdue a young man the engineering student said. Roman Catholic Church was 
Reagan needs congressional be the largest in the nation's 
who rushed up to h1m. The incident, televised nation­coupled with assurances that for almost all history.
approval his During the second hectic ally, appeared to some as an the Vatican "desires no privi­proposals: Republicans, pre­The president forcasts an day of his six-day visit to the attack on the pope and many leges'' and has no political or dictably, said they will push for inflation rate of 6.2 percent in 

Philippines, the pontiff also thought the young man had a economic goals in China or any quick action; Democrats, who 1983. It was 12.4 percent last honored the country's 42 mill­knife. He said he was carrying other country. 
control the House, promised year.

ion Roman Catholics by giving only a rosary and police re­Peking and the Vatican bro~e close scrutiny, but nothing Reagan's proposals would: 
them their first candidate for leased him after seven hours of relations after the commumst more. --Reduce income
individual sainthood in a moving cere­questioning. takeover in 1949 and restric­The president was greeted by tax rates by 10 percent a year 
mony police said was attended The pope stuck to his sched­tions on Christian worship in a prolonged standing ovation for three years beginning July
by 3 million people. ule after the incident, but China were lifted only tow years 1. This would save a famify of
from Congress, his Cabinet, his switched from a limosine to a ago. Catholic churches have

In a series of appearanced, wife Nancy and spectators who four, with wages of $20,000, the pope told the country's bus enroute to the notorious reopened in major cities but watched from the House galler­28.7 percent on their tax bill, or 
professiOnal elite to serve the Tondo slum area. He didn't they are under-control of an $1,456, by the end of 1984,
ies. His speech was interrupted a poor and not to worry about stop to talk to any of the slum association sanctioned by Pe­14 times by applause, when he Treasury official said. 
money and power. He then dwellers as he customarily does king with no ties to the Vatican. --Rev1se business deprecia­
mentioned budget cuts and also 

advised students of the Univer­and his chief bodyguard, Bish­The Vatican is thought to when he promised to boost tion schedules to providesiry of Santo Tomas that the op paul C. Marcinkus, pushed have carried out informal dis­
defense spending. There was speedier tax writeoffs, at a cost 
"pent-up energy" of youth photographers from the stand. cussions with the Chinese gov­only silence when Reagan to the treasury of $9.7 billion in doesn't frighten the church and Since his arrival here on a ernment, but there have been pledged to save major social fiscal 1982. told them to observe self-disci­12-day Asian tour that will also no firm signs that Peking is pr<,>grams from the budget --Project a budget deficit of pline and "aim high." take him to Guam, ] apan and ready for reconciliation. The billion in 1982 and $22.9
kmfe. $45 Alaska, the pope has spoken Vatican believes there are

As the pope was leaving the Reagan's far-reaching fiscal stage, 19-year-old universiry out strongly against human 500,000 to 2 million baptized program is designed to trim the See CUTS, page 4
student Lou Calugcug broke rights violations and told au-Catholics in China. 

l\T~~S~L~J~t:~i~~~~~S~======~==~================T=h=ur=s=da=y='=Fe=b=ru=a=ry=I=9=,1=9=81=-==p=ag=e~2 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Anti-draft supporters have agreed to back a national demonstation against nuclear power and stage their own Washington rally against the draft. The action came Monday at the conclusion of a four-day meeting of the Committee Against Registration and the Draft (CARD). The CARD conference, at . Wayne State University,-drew an estimated 1,100 people from about 30 states, said Russ Bellant, conference organizer. CARD will support the planned March 28 anti-nuclear march at Three Mile Is­land, near Harrisburg, Pa., and voted to hold a rally May 9 in Washington.-AP 
Rebellious Polish students occupied university buidlings 
in at least five Polish cities yesterday to back demands fro 
education reforms and Lodz students won government 
agreement to form an independent student association. 
Despite agreement to end a 28-day strike at Lodz, students 
took over classrooms in Warsaw, Torun, Krakow, Rodaw 
and Szczecin, according to student and governmen~ source. 
The outbreak of student strikes -over issues rangmg from 
mandatory courses in Russian to more money for books ­
meant new problems for the government of Gen. W ojciech 
J aruzelski who took office as premier a week ago with a 
plea for 9o days without strikes. Offici~! Sovi~t media, 
meanwhile, printed new attacks on Pohsh strikers and 
accused them of directly challenging the government at the 
instigation of the West. _:_ AP 
Ex-Beatle Paul McCartney has apparently been dissuaded 
from turning over the rights to the song, "on, Wisconsin" 
to that state, as requested by its _governQr. In a letter to 
Wisconsin Governor Lee S. Dreytus, McCartney attorney 
Lee V. Eastman of New York said the son~, known a~ the 
University of Wisconsin fight song, is pubhshed as a smgle 
enticy with other such well-known college fight songs as 
"Rambling Wreck from Georgia Tech,", "Hail Minnesota" 
and the ''Notre Dame Victory March.'' ''It would be a g.t::eta 
disservice for "On, Wisconsin" to be seperated from the 
other songs," Eastman wrote. Dreyfus contacted the 
Eastman firm in mid-January asking that McCartn~y 
consider giving the state rights to the well-known song, m 
honor of his late song-writing partner, John Lennon. ­
Collegiate Hedlines 

Carrying loud radios in Baltimore is now illegal._ The _City Council passed an ordi_nance Tuesday makmg 1t a misdemeanor to play a radto or phono~raph loud enough to be heard more than 50 feet away. Visttors to Harborplace, the city's redeveloped retail ~nd recreational area surrou':ld­ing the harbor, have complamed about the volume of radu;>s and taP.e decks carried by some young people there, satd Counctlman Thomas Waxter. Downtown shoppers.also have protested against the loud music pouring out of some radio and record stores in the retail district. The new noise-control law allows for fines of up to $25 and a jail term of up to 30 days. -AP 
A Purdue University fraternity has been placed on probation for ''a deliberate hazing incident'' involving four coeds school officials said yesterday. Stephen Akers, dean of st~dent affairs, said the university could refuse to recognize Al~ha Tau . Omega if fratern~ty members participate in further mts~onduct. Akers satd t?e ] an. 26 incident was "lewd and mdecent and we don t tolerate that.'' Four pledges of Phi Mu, a sorority were greeted by 10 to 15 ATO members who made them sing songs, Akers ·said. Then the females, who were told they had . to participate in a ''treasure hunt,'' were sent into a roo~ wtth four nude fraternity men who wore only masks. W~tle ?n social probation, t~e frate~nity !Day f:IOt use. ':'mv_erslo/ facilities for fratermty functions, ts derued pamcq~ation m campus events and is restricted from sponsonng any all-campus events such as dances. -AP 
Partly cloudy and very mild. Highs in the upper 50s. Clear at night. Lows in the up_Per 30s to the lov:-40s.. Partly cl<;>udy and continued very mdd tomorrow. Htghs m the mtd to upper 50s. -AP 
Send in the critics 
Latest Ronald Reagan jokt:; (stolen fr?m the Tonight show{:Carson descnbe~ a ,Partic~l~ly bizarre episode of Rod Sterhng s Twiltght Zone: "A man, in 1960, wakes up 20 years later to find that the host of Death Valley Days has 
. become president. 
We are now in the midst of the so-called "Honeymoon Period" of th~ nev:-administra­tion the first 100 days or so, m which the press defeaning. Pat Oliphant's cartton sho~mg 

backs off temporarily as the ~ew president gets shocked animals in the forest scre~t';lg,his bearings, and the p~estde';lt backs off _of "WHAT?" in reply to Reagan's nommationcampaign promises as hts advtsors show htm was particularly telling, but the pre.ss washow silly some of them ":'ere:. It happens every generally disinterested in Watt's sordtd past.
four years, just about thts t~e, and Reaga~ s Watt has already begur;t on ~ predictable track, presidency has been ';10 different. Wedding moving to o_Pen up_ Califorma coastal waters tonight is over, and the cigarettes ar unfiltered. 
oil compames whtch Gov. ] erry Bro":'n. hadThus far, the press has sho:wn . remarkbale closed. Additionally, Reagan named an 1d10t torestraint in this agreement, whtch 1s not to ~e be his Deputy Secretary of State, a man whoexpected from the cynics in 'washington. W~tle had no real knowledge of foreign affairs. ButReagan has made some outra~eous appou~t­for a column by Glen and S~earer and aments and confused his priorities, the medta deadpan report in Time, we saw lmle protest ofhave been mellow, content to wait while this silliness. And the fact that the SenateReagan gets the wheels on m~tion. . . 
confirmed him mechanically is totally .?onsc:ns­
In fact, Reagan has been lfl motion smce ical. Nixon's famous quote that medtcreDecember even visiting with other heads of people need representation too,'' in_ refernecestate befo;e he took office. And this remarkable to his rejected Supreme Court nommee, doesmedia complacency, with some exceptions, has not(and should not) apply. 
allowed a great deal of things t? occur largely There have been exceptions, of course. Theunnoticed publicly. An obvtous exa~ple: left-wing Mother jones' declared a No Honey­Reagan's nominee for S_ecretary of ~t~te ts a moon " issus, saying "~e'':'e seen enough ~f man with al least questionable pnormes, and him already, and we don t like what we se~.
he possesses the mtlitary mentality which had The magazme contained a fierce condenmat~on us all so frightened during ~h~ W~tergate of Reagan's simplistic econom,i~ t?eory (whtch period. And in a Reagan admmtstratton, the Cockburn and Ridgeway wrote It ts based on ~ head ofState is definitely goin~ to be on eof the belief in the free market so pro~ound that. It most powerful and influential ~en in the makes David Rockefeller look like a . Sovtet policy-making process. None of thts Cy yancc:/ planner"), a re-run of the controverstal _yetZbig Brzezinski mess. Alexander Hatg wtll hilarious "Reagan's Brain" Doonesbury str~ps,undoubtedly be a major force in the next four and a defense of atheism in the face of loorrung years. 
presence of the Moral Majority. In . a hous~But only The Washington Pos~ showed ~ny advertisement Studs Terkel proclatmed htsinterest. They did a five-part sene~ recountmg pride at being a memb~r of the ''Imf!lo~al
Haig's White House d::~:ys as ~htef of Staff, Minority." Motht;r jr:nes 1s o~ a Reagan htt-hst tying together the memotrs of Ntxo~, _Ford and of radical pubhcat10ns whtch need to beHaig himself among others, and ratsmg _many investi~ated if not eradicated. 
many questions simJ?lY on the basts of The mtellectualleft has been somewhat moreconflicting reports. Evtdence was strong that restrained so far, but says it could hav_e beenHaig perjured himself somewhere along the worse. According to The New Republzc, theyline. 
Don't like what Reagan has done already, but' But columnists were unusually tame; even concedes things c~uld be less satis_factory, andAnthony Lewis made only a restrain~~ protest. 
· Lewis Lapham the venerable edttor of Har­Instead, the media focused on the pohttcs of_the per's, wrote r~signedly last month that "Mr.
situation, and what battles or obstacles mtght Reagan will need all the luck he can g~t ..... but arise in Haig's confirmation process. The the idea of democracy rests on mcessantSenate for that matter gave Haig no more than conflict, and if Mr. Reagan doesn't have the a cur~ory glance in its examination, and stomach for it, then all the gold in Fort Knox attempts to explore the past were feeble. 
and all the missles in the silos in Kansas won'tApparently, protocol has deter~ined that put Humpty Dumpty together again.'' .
Cabinet nominees shall not be reJected (how The point here is not that the medta havemany times did we hear "the president should been overly tolerant--it's that they haven't been have whoever he wants"{, but the past record adequately analytical. This results in a trouble­of the character of Alexander Haig is not some lack of awareness among the populace,entirely encouraging. How soon they forget. 
and at this crucial stage in the honeymoon, weThe appoinment of ] ames Watt to . the need to be watching just as closely as ever. thisSecretary of the Interior post was downright isn't Death Valley Days--we've got to pay closer frightening, but again the outcry was less than attention to the actors now. 
...-~S!'!!!"!T!""!"AN~D~U~P~AN~D~B~E~C~O~tJN~T~E~D--, 
r-The_Qhsen:er._ Design Editor Margaret Kruse Design Assts. Kathy Grosset, Patty Fox, Tim Neely Layout Staff Kim Parent Systems Tel':hs Bruce, Chris News Edit01r Pamela Ann Degnan Features Layout Tim Neely Sports Layout Kelly & Beth ND Day Editor Megan Boyle SMC Day Editor john Higgins AdDesign Woody &jeanne Photos jane Ahern Savior Typt~>ts Scoop, Pam  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per seme1;ter) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, !Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  

what: Vote for SMC Student . . Government and Class Officers when: Thurs . FEB. 19 where: LeMans Lobby 10-4 and cafeteria, LeMans side,4:30-6:00
* Seniors can vote for Student 
Government Offices 
~~~m~~~~ •••. 
:111. Student Surveys will be :::: 
:11 

J! distributed th;s week ·\ i 
Ion-campus students 'l~l~ l~l~ t in dorms t / :l~l off -campus students ~l~. ~ill f :-:· -in Lafortune) f 
I!I Thursday, Friday 11 -1 j: : ~~~~ Isponsored by Student Senatej ~~l~ 
;::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::~:::~:~:::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~; 
The Observer Thursday, February 19, 1981-page 3 

low tumout 
Mardi Gras receipts lag 
By LOUIS BREAUX 
StaffReporter 
" We need more poker 

players,'' was the verdict from 
) im Riedman, Mardi Gras 
business manager. According 

to Riedman, this year's Mardi 
Gras has been lagging finan­
cially behind many of the 
previous Mardi Gras. 
Riedman attributes the lag to 
the low turnout and that poker 

games are all night, every 
night and play poker, but that 
has not been happening yet,'' 
said Riedman. 
"We have guys walking around here scrapping to get a game started." 
The total revenue from the 

booths aND CONCESSIONS IS 
ABOUT $10,930 this year. In 
1979, the figure was about 
$15,500 for the same time 
period. Admission receipts 
have totaled about $5,00 and raffle ticket sales have reached nearly $16,000. The overall expenses for Mardi Gras are estimated at $20,000. 
"We are hoping for a big turnout this weekend to pull us through," said Dan McKernan, Mard1 Gras chairman. "We realioze this has been a big test week, but you only need to take a couple of hours off to come and enjoy yourself. You csn still sell a ticket boo! and get in free." 
Besides an occasional ap­pearance of loaded dice, a few stolen lollipops and mirrors, Mardi Gras has been spared 
any significant amount of 
cnme. 
Although gambling is the usual attraction at Mardi Gras, some live entertainment is featured. Thursday is Comedy and Magic Night, featuring magician Mike Weber from 8-9p.m. and agian from 11-12 
p.m. The Outcasts, an improv­Isational group, will act from 9-10 p.m. and the comedy team of Pat Byrnes and Jim McClure will perform from 10-11 p.m. 
On Friday the theme is Alum­
ni Weekend. From 7-9 p.m. 
Dan Zimmerman will perform. After Zimmerman, the band Crystal will play till 2 a.m. 
Saturday night is Awards Night. From 7·9 p.m. another quaterist, Smokey Joe, wioll perform. Afterwarcfs, Crystal will return and play till 2 a.m. The raffle for the 1981 Cutlass Supreme will held at midnight. 
The overall theme for this year's Mardi Gras is"In The News" and has produced booth designs including the War of the Worlds, the Gold Rush and the creation of man. An award is ~iven to the best booth des1gn. 
An honor is also bestowed on the booth that produces the most revenue for Mardi Gras. So far the standings are from first to last:Dillon-Lewis­$1,379, TriMilitary -$959, Stanford-Walsh-$873, Alum ni-Holy Cross -McCandless $778, Cavanaugh-Farley ­$767, Planner-Regina -$756, St.Ed's -Carroll-$755, Pang­Zahm-Augusta-Pasquerilla ­$530, Grace-Breen Phillips ­$451, Sorin-Sophomore Class­$396, Howard-Badin -$274, Morrissey-) unior Class ­$132, and the Fisher-Off-Cam­pus booth-$125. 

born-Lyons  - $563,  Holy  
Cross-McCandless  - $558,  
Keenan-LeMans  - $539,  

...Students 
continued from page 1 
no offer of compromise · y or in the future." 
Hill, however, defined Cotter's "compromise" as not 
offering any cash to the students, and that's correct." Hill stated that the only item discussed with Cotter was ''whether we were going to offer any money' to the eight students. Hill further explained that all criminal charges against the students will be handled by the county pros­ecutor. Korpal was unavailable for comment. 
Hill explained that a dis­position means if charges against the students are still pending March 18, then a trial date will be set. 
The students were arrested Jan.30 inside Corby's Tavern at 1026 Corby Street. 
Crash-landing prevents tragedy 
SANTA ANA, Cal. (AP)­Quick action by the pilot of a jetliner that was landing with 109 peoplt. abord may have helped avert tragedy when he crash-landed his plane in flames after spotting another plane on the runway, author­
ities said yesterday. 
thirty-four people were in­jured, none senously, in the accident Tuesday night at John Wayne Airport m Orange County. 
Apparently both the in­coming Air California Boeing 737 and another Air California jet bound for San Jose with 117 people aboard were cleared for the same runway at the same time, but there was no immediate comment from au­thorities on how that could happen. 
An investigator for the National Transportation Safety Board who asked not to be identified said, "It looks like we have some heroes in the crew, but that's for the investigation to decide." 
Air California spokesman Mark Peterson said, "We were very lucky that the crew per· formed in such a professional way. 
"There was no panic, and this is the tribute to all the passengers and the crew.'' 
Airport operations chief Den­is R. Horn said, "I think it was probably a combination of skill on the part of the air crew and a fortunate turn of events. The airplane didn't break up. The emergency response was out­standing." 
Horn also said it was fortu nate that the flaming jetliner came to rest in front of the airport fire station after the airline officials said. crash landing. He said rescue Both planes had been told to personnesl were at the scene abort by frantic air traffic within a minute and were able controllers who saw a collision to quickly control the fire. developing, but a witness mon­
The _plane on the ground intoring the airlines' radio fre­aborted Its takeoff and was not quency said the pilot of the damaged when the incoming landing jet yelled over the jet tried to abort its landing but radio at the pilot on the ground hit the runway with such force to "Go! go! go! " apparently 
that its wheels collapsed and trying to get the plane out of the fuselage cracked in half, the way. 
Ihe_-Obsenrer. 
SOME POSI!IORS STILL AVAILABLE OPill TO ALL llD·SMCJ STUDI!ITS 

ALL YOU CAN EAT SPECIALS 
4c30 P.M. T0·10:00 P".M.  
lncltidea Special Italian &alee,  
dinner salad, French bread & butter  
E..,  QHKJ\&\'  
Wedneader  Our own crl8p fried dllcken,  
a Sunder  choice of potatoes. roll & butter  
Nlte  1'11111'111'·  
Home batter dipped OC8WI perch,  
French frlee. slaw. roll& butter  

'2.. 75 13.75 
~3.25 
52820 U.S. 31 NO., South Bend • 209 E. Ireland, South Bend 921 W. McKinley, Mhhawaka 
SMC ORIENTATION '81 Applications are now being accepted for: 
Assistant Chairman  Social Chairman  
PublicityChairman  Off-Campus Chariman  
Big Sister-Little Sister  Transfer Chairman  
Chairman  General Committee  
Workers  

Applications are available in the Student Activities Office -166 LeMans. Deadline Is Friday, Feb. 27. Sign up for an 
interview when returning applications. 
MICHIGAN 

SNO-N-GO REPORTS 
800-248-5700 


CONSIDERING A LAW CAREER? A represen.tative of 
SOUTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW ABA/AALSlos Angeles 
will be on SMC campus Tuesday, February 24 7:00 -9:00pm 356 Madeleva Saint Mary's College 
Underclassmen welcome, as well as seniors graduate students. Applications will-. .. ' to be accepted during 1the spring~ Hyou would like to learn more about the profession , the law sehool experience' and the application process' please join ,us. for an informal meeting. 
Southweslem Univusity School of l..sw has served the public, since 1911 as a nonprofit, nonS<Ctarian educational institution. Southwestern Univer.ity 
does n01 discriminate on the basis ol race color ~x, religion , national or ethnic origin, ,; handicap 
m oonnection with admission to the school or in the administration ol any of its educational,' 
employment, financial aid, schol.rship, or student 
activity programs. 


The Observer Thursday, February 19, 1981-page4 

SEND RESUW:f OOlfTAOT 
THOMAS D. JEFFERS IPEllSORlfEL DlllEOTOll 
LILLY IlfDUSTlliAL 
OOATilfGS, lifO. 
P.O. BOX 946 
IlfDIAlfAPOLIS, IlfDIAlfA 46206 
(317) 634-8&12 
Rapist? 

Student describes robber 
By MIKE DUPLESSIE 
News Staff 
The Notre Dame student who was robbed earlier this week has given South Bend Police a description of her assailant which closely resem­bles that of the "orange ski­masked" rapist. 
In an unreported incident that occurred on that same day, a Saint Mary's student was prep­ositioned by a man, drivmg a white van, and wearing an orange ski mask cuffed on his head. 

The Saint Mary's woman's description are very similar, no positive identification has been made as to whether this man is in fact the rapist. 
Police are still investigating the incidents.There have been no arrests or indications of any possible suspects, though police are reportedly attempt­mg to trace down any whtte vans with an orange mountain scene painted on the side. 
Housing Office to decide fate of room /picks system 
By NORMAN PLATE 
News Staff 
Although the Housing Office has not released any official information regarding the stan­dardization room picks for next year, most rectors think that the matter should remain in the hands of each dorm. 
Fr. Heppen, director of stu­dent residences, appointed the Physical Plant Committee and Student Affairs Committee to investigate the present room pick system. As ~oon as both committees recetve sugges­tions from the rectors and hall presidents, they will meet to discuss the future of room picks. 
Under the present system the method of_picking a room is decided indivtdually by each hall. One possible alternative to this system is to use a standardization method in aLL OF THE DORMS. The benefit of such a system would be the elimination of student com­plaints that another hall's sys­tem is more fait in deciding room picks. 

Most rectors, however, feel that room picks should be left up to the individual halls. Asked if he thought the room pick system should be stan­dardization, Fr. Thomas King of Zahm Hall replied,"Ihope not. Each dorm ahs developed over the years a comfortable system which works for that dorm.'' Many other rectors agreed, stating that a room ptck system that was standard­Ized according to individual GPA would be "ludicrous." 
Inflation fighting Cooperation key to program 
WASHINGTON (AP) --Pres­ident Reagan's l?roposals for sweeping reductions in the federal budget are designed to force nearly everyone to give up somethin~ in the name of fighting mflation. But it's the marginally poor who are hit the hardest. 
The president protected from cuts the programs he said make up the "social safety net," which helps the most needy in society. 
"We will continue to fulfill the oblisations that spring from our national conscience," the president told a joint session of Congress last night. 
''Those who through no fault of their own must depend on the rest of us--the poverty stricken, the disabled, the el­derly--all those with true need can rest assured that the social safety net of programs they depend on are exept from any cuts.'' 
Beyond that safety net, Reagan's program would re­quire all Americans to pay a share of the cost of combating inflation. Theoretically, it hits everyone--big guys and little 
guys. I d · 1 · " 
''I hope 've ma e tt p am, said the president, "that our approach has been even-hand­ed, that only the programs for the deserving remain un­touched.'' 
But it's the little guys, the working poor, who also are heavily dependent on federal aid, who will lose benefits in areas like food stam,Ps, Medi­caid, public serv1ce jobs, housing and aid to dependent children. 

for them there is only a pittance from the tax cuts that benefit middle and upper in­come people far more than those at the lower end of the economic scale. 
Earlier administrations and Congresses made decisions to include the working poor among those Reagan now calls the "deserving needy." It is these decisions that Reagan proposes to reverse. 
The perception of a tilt toward the more provileged in society is likely to dominate congressional debate on the Reagan program and establish the political battle lines for the 1982 elections. 
' ' .Cuts 
continuedfrom page 1 
billion in 1983, and a $500 million surplus in 1984, the next presidential election year. 
--Increase the percentage of the federal budget spent on what the admirustration calls "safety net" programs protect­ing the truly needy who need government assistance to sur­vive. This figure would rise 
· from 36.6 percent in 1981 to 
40.6 percent in 1984. 
--Reduce some subsidies and benefits for middle and upper income people. But it would not cut various features of the tax laws that benefit special groups such as home­owners, who are allowed to deduct mortgage interest. 

WE PUT IT ALL TOGETHER. 
A challenging future and continuing contribution to the growing health care industry ... a few of the pieces that make up a career with American Hospital Supply Corporation. We provide our people with unlimited opportunity and potential in 22 divisions located around the world. American HospitalSupply Corporation realized over $2 billion in sales last year and as our growth continues, so do our career opportunities. 
We need people in the following areas: 
Accounting/Finance/OperationsSales/Distribution/Marketing 
Learn how you can fit into the picture when our representativeis on campus: 
March 4th and 5th (Sign-up sheets will be posted the week of February 23rd) 
We are an equal opportunity employer m/f 
..• 

..•....••• American Hospital Supply Corporation ... 
=rh~e=ob~se-rv-er____________________________ 
Thursday, February 19, 1981-page 5 
iA~ Nomi 6f', MMY'S FAfRE YRDUOL.tf ~S:: 

• 

.. A MWP{, J.\V5f51tt~ Rf610AA110N COMfP~! 
FE~UARV 2.0, 2-1, Z.~, ~ 48 O'LAUG~N AUO.. 5:00P.M~ _ 
1\CKelS ME*2.so , RESe.~A.110NS: 2e4--Lf-17, 
---,l 
-,.~' . 
.•. ·~ ·~ 
.. 







Thursday, February 19, 1981-page 6 
P~O.BoxQ 
in the last several years was that The world of which DiMaria rescue attempt, coming as it did in speaks is one of in'definite tones recognition of the inevitable loss and is plagued by problems which of lives. Undoubtedly Reagan's have no. simple answers. In his election was the kick in the pants zealous support of the right he the Iranians needed, but who can seems to take a lot for granted. I be sure that an elected Kennedy felt his letter to be little more than would not have had the same ef­a showcase for his political fect'l I feel here too, that he is opinions and in no way a reply to anxious to ignore any credit that Jackman's article. Unfortunate­Carter might deserve for the ly, I do not share his optimistic hostages' safe return, but let's view of the future o( the country move on to his claim about the as a whole and of the poor and Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. minorities, as the new President ·Once again he offers nothing has already retreated from his ini­more than conjecture as proof of . tial deadlines for balancing the what he claims. federal budget and will soon begin 
Finally, he links Carter's to slash funds previously directed "liberal policies" to" a decline of tbwards the major metropolitan the world's view of the U.S. A." areas, a move which will undoub­Which world is DiMaria talking tedly have adverse effects on the about? Is there a recent poll poor. Since he seems so com­stating thisfact clearly? When he fortable throwing around phrases considers his "world" (for he like "self-perceived societal mes­seems to use the term in a unique siah," the words "idealistic," way), is he considering the Third and "out-of-touch/' and refer to World nations or is he limiting it in liberals as those who see the the Newsweek style to. Europe, world mistakenly "as they want the Soviet Union, and Japan? to see it," I wonder in which 
DiMaria acknowledges that camp he would consider Presi­"while everyone has the right to dent Reagan? 
his own opinions, it would be nice if everyone looked at the world as James Dwyer it is, and not as they want (ital. 
his) to see it." Subsequently, he generalizes on the nature of both liberals ("well intentioned 
Mabley
idealists whose policies run coun­
ter to human nature and take 
• 

away incentives") and con­
mtsses 
servatives(" are realistically wil­
ling to work for what they have 
point
and take pride in their work") and attempt a weak analogy between the two. 
Dear Editor, 
All of this gets DiMaria (and us) Jack Mabley must have been nowhere, for I might just as easily 
denied admission to the Univer­say that "liberals dream of a bet-· sity of Notre Dame as high
a ter future (in the face of a 
school senior. What other profes­sometimes uncomprom1s1ng 
sional would take the time to world), while conservatives are 
write an article attacking every simply middle class fat-cats who 
facet of the University: its student selfishly fight to main I tain the 
body, administration. basketball status quo." I might say this, but I 
team and even its band? In his ar­won't, because I recognize it as 
ticle "Obnoxious Fans Did Not impotent rhetoric which is un­
Help Team," (Chicago Tribune, productive and makes for 
no Feb. 10, 1981), Jack implies that argument. I find his desire to have 
activities at basketball games everyone look at the world "as it 
prove that our educational is, and not as they want to see it" 
process is failing. I hope that Mr. more than a little frightening, be­
Mabley can get his priorities cause it maintains that he sees the 
straight in the future. Instead of world as it is and that, conse­
writing about activities of collegequently, we should all agree with 
students at an exciting, pressure­him. Oh, to have such clarity of 
packed game, he should be spend­vision! 
ing his time writing about the real failures of our educational process: the thousands of children who graduate from high
Garry Trudeau 

schools every year across the country without possessing basic reading and writing skills, or the inequality of education that exists

IffY.. NO FIIIR. TAKING MY 


between schools in the very same city, or the busing that is driving away the affluent and eroding the potential for integration it is supposed to be fostering. These are real problems, Mr. Mabley, problems that are begging for the attention of professionals like yourself. 
Keith H.dinger 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the  Edltor·in-Cbief..................................... Paul Mullaney ManagingEditor.......................................... Mark Rust Editorials Editor.............................. Michael Onufrak  Features Editor.......................................Molly Woulfe Pboto Editor ...............................................John Macor  
University ofNotre Dame du ~~and_ Saint ~ary'~ C<?lle~e. It does not ~ecessarily reflect the policies of the admmastrauon ofeither msutuuon. The news ts reported  SeniorCoP.YEditor.....................MaryFranCallahan lixecuttveNewsEditor......................... TomJackman  Business Manager ..................................Greg Hedges  
.as accurately and as <?bjectively as possible: Edito.ri~ls represent the opinion _of a  News Editor...............................................Lynne Daley  Controller .............................................. -••.•. ..jim Rudd  
majority ofthe Editorial Boa.rd. Commentanes, opmaons, and letters are th~ vtews  SMC Executive Editor..........................Margie Brassil  Advertising Manager.........­................. ...Mark Ellis  
of their authors. Column SJ?ace is available to all members of the c~mmumty, and  SMCNewsEdltof'...................................... Marv Leaviu  Circulation Manager......... ..................iieth Hacke«  
the ffte expre!  ·  ·"rymg <'"';nions on campus, through letters, IS encouraged.  SportsEdltor...........................................Beth Hutfnwt  Production M<UUt,ger..........................Je>hn McGrath  

--~~------~--~----------------------~ 
Thursday, February 19, 1981-page 7 
~eatures 
James Taylor wows 'ern at Holiday Star Theater 
W
hen audiences sec James Taylor's "Smiling Face," they smile right back-and with good reason. 
Taylor(a!Tectionately referred to asJT) entertained Saturday's sold out audience at the Merrilville, Ind., Holiday Star Theatre with such classics as "Something In the Way She Moves," "Sweet Baby James,"" How Sweet It Is (To Be Loved By You)," and "Carolina In My Mind." 
Taylor, who graciously accepted roses and signed autographs before the show, performed most of the evening alone, solely accompanied by acoustic guitar. The singer did, however, employ the efforts of Dan Dugmore on p~:dal steel, Leland Sklar on bass, Rick Marotta on drums and Ed Kalowski on keyboards. 
Last Saturday's performance, billed as" An Acoustical Evening with James Taylor," was the last of Taylor's four-day stay at the Holiday Star. The theatre, located on Indiana interstate 1-65 South, will tout such stars as Anne Murray, Barry Manilow, Gor­don Lightfoot, Tom Jones and Sammy Davis, Jr., in the next few months. 
Throughout his performance, Taylor's voice sounded strong and clear-faltering only on a few selections. Unfortunately, both" Mexico" and" Fire and Rain" were disappointments, for Taylor added little variation to either tune. JT, however, over­shadowed any weak performances with the general consistancy of his fluid vocals. 
The artist maintained a conversational atmosphere with his audience, often supplying explanations for specific tunes. Before performing" Mona," a song about a pig given to him for his 21st birthday, Taylor described the animal as "tight like a football," and added the pig "thought (he) was its mother." 
Taylor appeared relaxed, shedding·his shoes early in the performance and often acknowledging the ·rowd' s applause and verbal praise. In contrast to a 
Midwest Pops offer Broadway hits 
C
onductor Newton Wayland and the Midwest Pops Orchestra will present "The Best of Broad­way: Past and Present" featuring mezzo-soprano Jan Curtis next Sunday, February 22 at 7:30p.m. at Cen­
tury Center. The program is a selection of Broadway's memorable melodies featuring the music of Leonard Bernstein, Romberg, Porter, Berlin, Gershwin, Kurt Weill, .Hamlisch and Wayland. Tickets arc $6 for students and may be obtained at the South Bend Symphony office (232-6343) and at the Centur Center Box Office (284-9111 ). 
performance last August at Indianapolis' Market Square Arena, Taylor appeared totally at horne in the Holiday Star. 
JT provided his own background vocals, with assis­tance from a reel-to-reel tape recorder that accom­panied him during" Baby, It's Cold Outside," and "Shower The People." In addition to hits, audience members heard a variety of selections, such as "Mill worker (originally written for a Broadway play which opened and closed within two weeks)" from the Flag album, "Captain Jim's Drunken Dream" from In the Pocket and "Soldiers" from Mud Slide Slim and the Blue Horizon. Continuously, Taylor il­lustrated his skills on acoustic guitar, performing such songs as "Steamroller," "Blossom" and "Gorilla" with a natural ease. Taylor did combine his instrumen­tal talent with his vocal one to produce a true "acoustical evening." 
JT also performed a selection from his new album, Dad Loves His Work, which will be released March 9. "Sugar Trade," written a·bout people in the triangle trade of the 1700's, is a tune that Taylor said "looks good and sounds nice."" Don't Let Me Be Lonely Tonight," a hit from Taylor's album, One Man Dog, and" Long Ago and Far Away," from Mud Slide Slim 
were also performed with gentle percussion and 
guitar. "You've Got A Friend~' made popular by 
both Taylor and singer Carole King (who is also the 
song's composer) concluded JT's performance, ac­
companied by only one encore ("You Can Close Your 
Eyes"), unlike the usual two or three stage reap­
pearances ACC concert goers are familiar with. 
In the selection "Secret 0' Life," Taylor advised 
listeners "the secret of life is enjoying the passage of 
time." Any passage of time with James Taylor, 
however, is too enjoyable to be kept secret. 
Mary Agnes Carey 
'Smoky Joe' at Mardi Gras 
Mardi Gras _presents "Smoky Joe" Saturday from 7-9 p.m. m Stepan Center. "Smoky Joe" returns to Mardi Gras for the third year with a program offolk, rock, and ballads of the 50's, 60's, and 70's. 
As a special feature, "Smoky Joe" has added a moody blues segment to his program, especially for those students who will be mtssing this year's Midwest Blues Festival. 
"Smoky Joe" will also feature many of the songs from his albums, especially .A Qtu!stion of Love, which i~ availble in the Bookstore. 

Quiz XIII: Reunions 
T
here weren't quite as many obvious answers in las~eek's 4uiz. 
However, if you could have grabbed the right resources, you 
would have been able to answer all ten of the second part of the quiz 
(I .name the artist, you name the song) with no trouble at all. As you 
will see by the answers below, I'm sure you will recognize many of 
the songs and artists, since most were released during the seventies. 
There was also a neat coincidence in last Thursday's Observer; 
more specific details can also be found below. 
This week's quiz is about something which is happening more and 
more-reunions. Most groups which reunite do so because their 
former members have trouble with solo careers. Many groups other 
than the qnes I will quiz you on attempted this, some quite success­
fully, some not. A few examples follow. 
The Lovin' Spoonful, one of the most successful singles groups of 
1966 and 1967, broke up in 1968. It was twelve years before a 
reunion took place. In Paul Simon's 1980 movie One-Trick Pony, 
the original members appear together again as the Lovin' Spoonful. 
Creedence Clearwater Revival, perhaps the most successful 
American group of the early seventies, was together for years 
before hitting the big time in 1968. Tom Fogerty, one of the original 
members, left in 1971. The rest of the group hung together for one 
more album before breaking up for good... until late last year. The 
original four members played a45-rninute set at Torn Fogerty's wed­
ding. Since then, negotiations have been underway for a possibl~ 
reunion album. 
There have been many others which have done the same as the 
above groups. Ten of them are described in the below quiz. 
Your task is to nane the t group I am referring to. 
I. One of the bands most of today' s heavy-metal groups point to as an influence had three top ten hits in the late sixties and broke up in 1972. They reunited in 1974 with a Top 40 single called "Straight Shootin' Woman." 
2. 
They broke up in 1969, but after having no American success as solo artists, reunited late in 1970-and became the top-selling group of the last decade. 

3. 
They broke up with little fanfare in 1974, after their first (and only) number one album. Various combinations of the members of the group recorded unsuccessful albums until they reunited in 1978. Their comeback hit was "Steppin' in a Slide Zone." 

4. 
One of the most heralded groups ever when they formed in 1969, they doubled their membership in 1970, and were no more in 1971. Most of the 1970 version of the group reunited in 1974 for a concert tour, and then promptly broke up again; in 1977, the three original members got back together for one album and their only Top Ten single, one of the shortest hit songs of the late seventies. 

5. 
The most successful duet of the sixties, they have reunited several times in the ensuing years-in 1972 for a benefit concert, in 1975 for a top-ten single, and in 1978 for a top-20 single (with partial credit given to a third performer). 

6. 
A successful black duo in the late sixties, they stopped having hits and broke up in the early seventies. The male half of the original duet teamed up with a new partner, kept the same name, and carne back to the charts with a vengeance in 1979. 

7. 
One of the original British groups, with hits like" Don't Throw Your Love Away" and "When You Walk Into the Room," they went the way of most early British groups, breaking up in obscurity in the early seventies. Reuniting in the late seventies with all but one of the original members, they released a critically acclaimed but commercially ignored self-titled album. 

8. 
After their last 45, recorded in 1967 but released in 1969, hit number one, they broke up. In 1978 they reunited and recorded an album aptly titled Reunion. They still do many concerts as a group. 

9. 
This group of respected session musicians had eleven Top40 hits from 1970 to 1973 inclusive. They broke up because two mem­bers of the group complained that their songs were never released as singles, among other things. After unsuccessful solo careers, they reunited late in 1976, had a top-ten single, and broke up for the same reason they broke up the first time. 

10. 
This well-known band had close to a dozen personnel changes from the time they first appeared in 1965 until their breakup in the early seventies. The original members reunited in IIJ73 for a now­obscure self-titled album. Most ofthe original band reunited again in 1979, recording an album using a different name, featuring the hit single "Don't You Write Her Off." 


********* 

Last Week's Answers 
Here are the answers to last week's Double Neely: 
Part I: (I) "I'm Doin' Fine Now"-New York City; (2) "Play 
That Funky Music"-Wild Cherry; (3) "Feelings"-Morris Al­
bert; (4) "For What It's Worth"-The Buffalo Springfield; (5) 
"Telstar"-The Tornadoes; (6) "Mr. Custer"-Larry Verne; (7) 
"I'm On Fire"-The Dwight Twilley Band; (8) "Nuttin' for 
Christmas"-Barry Gordon; (9) "Funky Nassau"-The Begin­
ning of the End (here's the coincidence: check page l:l of last 
Thursday's paper and you will see that this group name was used as 
the headline for Brian Beglane's column); ( 10) "D•mcing in the 
Moonlight"-King Harvest. 
Part II: (I) The Assembled Multitude-"Overture from Tom­
my"; (2) The Edwin Hawkins Singers-"Oh Happy Day"; (3) 
Zager and Evans-"In the Year2525"; (4) Peoples Choice-"Do 
It Any Way You Wanna"; (5) Loudon Wainwright Ill-"Dead ­
Skunk"; (6) Mike Douglas__..;: "The Men in My Little Girl's Life"; 
(7) The Silkie-"You've Got to Hide Your Love Away"; (8) 
\McFadden and Whitehead-"Ain't No Stoppin' Us Now"; (9) Ram Jam-"Black Betty"; and (10) Climax-" Precious and Few." 


Campus 
12:20 p.m.--lecture: "asthet-' ics of color, role, name and number in hindu existential­ism," ramakrishna nandyal, memorial library lounge, sponsored by the english department. 
5:30 p.m.--reception: dean of the national university of taiwan, faculty lounge, O'shaughnessy hall, all in­terested persons welcome. 
7, 9, 11 r.m.--film: "the green wal , '' washington .hall, social concerns film series. 
7, 9, 11 p.m.--film: "mash," engineering auditorium, $1 admission. 
7:30 p.m.--ftlm: "five easy pieces" annenberg auditor­tum, $1 admission. 
8:15 p m.--concert: notre dame :ollegium musicum, great ·1aH, o'shaughnessy, spons :ed by the music de­
partm· nt. 

9 r m. -1 a.m. --the empty keg, st. mary's clubhouse, sponsored by the student activities programming board, free admission. 
Chicago 
·weekend 
dates set 

The Junior Class Chicago 
, Weekend is set for April3, 4, and 5. 188 juniors are scheduled to par­ticipate. Accomodations are at the Marriott Hotel on Michigan Avenue. Participants will leave Notre Dame at 3 p.m. Friday afternoon and return Sunday afternoon. 
The package is only $50 and in­cludes bus transportation, lodging, and cocktail party. Deposits and rovming lists, (four to a room) are due March 4 and 5. 
• • • Tyson 
continued from page 1 

Molarity Michael Molinelli 

listed Cicely Tyson as one of the world's Ten Most Admired Blacks. 
Ex_{'ressing ~ humanistic per Sl ;cttve on life, the act~ess r(. ooned to a question asked ab ut how black men should deal with black women by saying, "If we just dealt .with one another as human bemgs 
you wouldn't have to ask that question. You wouldn't have those problems." 
Ms. Tyson refuted a ques­tion, however, regarding activ­ities of hers that could be classified humanitarian--by an­swering "I don't want to talk about those things; I just do them.'' 
After eoncluding her dia­logue with the audience, the actress then presented dra­
-
matic readings of rrose and poetry--both dassica and mod­ern. The themes of the works centered on the richness of the black heritage and the prob­lems of racial discrimination and predjudice. · 

~~INCEN~~ 
the COmFORTER: 
~~ 
THE miNISTRY OF VINCENT ·van GOGH 
~~ 
An illusttated ')tesentation by ____.HL&:ea.JnLUtLL.I...LNouwen Ftiday, Febtuaty 20 8:00pm Washington Ha 
. sponsoted by: Centet fot Experiential Leatning \ . CILA -Student Union 
no admission charge 
thursday night film series 1r 
Five Easy Pieces Dir. by Bob Rafleson (U.S.A.) 1970 
Jack Nicholson, Karen Black and Susan Anspach star in an 
intense and thoughtful variation of the theme of the 
American Drifter. The self·deprecating performance by 
Nicholson is probably one of his best, in this intelligent 
study of a side of American life not always treated with the 
kind of insight displayed by Rafleson here. 
THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 
7:30 pm admission $1.00 
sponsored by ' D -SMC COMMUNICATION &THEATRE 
The Observer Thursday, February 19, 1981-page 9 
Hard -work pays off for Sitlington 

By ED KONRADY 
Sports Writer 
"Since I didn't play much last year, I'm someone people can look to as an example. If they work hard they co_uld improve, and achieve something." 
Mary Pat Sitlington has devel­oped into an intregal part of the Saint Mary's basketball team. Sitlington, a sophomore center from Frankfort, Ill., averages 9. 7 points, (third on the team) and six rebounds (second on the team) a game. Her best game was against Goshen, when she pumped in 14 points and yanked down 12 rebounds. 
The laughter came often, and in abundance, as I interviewed Sitlin~ton. Her good humor is a defimte asset for the team. "Mary Pat will try to pick up a couple of the players on the team who aren't playing so well," says Head Coach Jerry Dallessio. ''She tries to encour­age them, and help them to overcome their slump." 
While Sitlington's off-court behavior is engaging, it is her long-range shooting that 
earned  her  a  place  on  the  
Belles.  During  the  Saint  
Mary's  Roundball  Classic  

Tournament, Sitlington was six 
for nine against Illinois Ben­edictine College and seven for nine against Findlay College, with most of her shots coming from the 15-25 foot range. 
''I see Mary Pat as a scorer, someone who can shoot the ball from the outside, and balance out the outside shoot­ing of Anne Armstrong," says Dallessio. "I think it's hard for a team to will consistantly if you depend on one player to shoot the ball from the outside. With Mary Pat and Anne in 
there,  we  have  a  nice  bal­ 
ance.''  
Sitlington's emergence  as  a  

major force for the Belles is a direct result of the improve­ment in the other Facets of her game. 
"Mary Pat's really rounded out her game," commented Dallessio. "I would say that earlier in the season, if she didn't score, her contribution wasn't as great. Now she is playing good defense and be­coming more aggressive under the boards, she can play a good game, not score as much, and still make a contribution to the team. 
"Defensively, Mary Pat's im­proved tremendously. She still needs some work, but her man-to-man and zone defense 

National champs, or team of the month? 

Notre Dame and Virginia, Oh my! 

To he sure, Dick Enberg will let loose with a few of the exclamations that arc fast becoming his trademark when the Irish and Cavaliers tangle in the Rosemont Horizon Sunday. And with good reason. There will be more than passing interest in the clash, especially since Ralph Sampson and the Pour Dwarfs will come into Chicago with an umblemished record. 
Yes, there'll be plenty of oh mys Sunday, but something will be missing· -what if. As in, what if Notre Dame be'ats Virginia? Or what if Virginia beats Notre Dame'? 
Thanks to the NCAA and its money-grubbing policies, Sunday's battle royale won't amount to a hill of beans. Virginia is going to the NCAA tournament. Notre Dame is going to the NCAA tournament. And so are a lot of schools that shouldn't be. 
The list of conferences which automatically send their champion to the tournament is, ub, fascinating. My personal favorite is the Trans-America Athletic Conference. It sounds like an airline. Come fly with us, the Trans­America Athletic Conference. At least the schools could save on travel expenses. 
But there are others. most of them you've even heard of. The ECAC, the Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference and the Ivy League immediately spring to mind. Sure, there may be a decent team or two in each of those conferences, but they shouldn't get an automatic bid just by beating up on Clay Middle School and the Mishawaka Cavemen. If a team is deserving, it should get an at-large bid. 
Monetary considerations won't allow it, but the time has come for the NCAA to pare its field to 32 teams and adopt a double-elimination format. Too many good teams fall prey to a pumped-up underdog and an off-day. 
Tough luck, you say? Maybe. But we're supposedly trying to determine the national champion, not the Team of the Month for March, 1981. Last year, Louisville was the Team of the Month for March, but DePaul owned bragging rights for most of December, January and February. So who was the best team? 
Every once in a while an underdog reaches the Final Four, but even 
blind s4uirrels find nuts. Two years ago, Penn dodged a couple of bullets 
to survive the East Regional and promptly was thrashed by Michigan 
State, 101-67, in the semifinals. Is this the kind of basketball we want to 
sec in the Final Four? 
This is by no means an elitist assault on less prestigious conferences. It 
is utter nonsense that the Big Ten and Atlantic Coast conferences should 
place five teams in the tournament, even if Iowa did reach the 1980 Final 
Pour. 
Flooding the NCAA tournament with 64 teams renders almost every 
regular-season game meaningless. Can't we learn anything from the NBA 
besides how to shatter a backboard? 
Maybe a few good teams would get left out, but that's far better than 
letting a bunch of also-rans in. 
As it is now, there is only one "what if' about Sunday's game-what if 
the roof of the Horizon falls in again? 
has improved tremendously 
since last year.. Mary Pat's rebounding has become much more aggressive. She's block­ing out more, and is going to the boards consistently. As far as t'm concerned, Mary Pat is the most improved player on 
the team. 
The weakest point in Siding­ton's ~arne, according to Dallessto, is her willingness to go inside for closer shots. ''Mary Pat needs to drive to the basket a little more to complement her shootins. She knows it, and we're workmg on it. I think that with Mary Pat's outside shooting ability, if she'd learn to fake the shot and drive a little more, she'd be much more effective, because people would have to respect 1' her ability to shoot as well as to drive. That's when Mary Pat will start becoming a complete offensive player.'' An excellent indicator of Sit­lington' s defensive improve­ment is her rise to second on the team in defensive points. Defensive points, a category Dallessio devised, is the com­bined total of defensive rebounds, steals, charges t~en, and loose-ball recov­

Unseasonably warm weather brought this student out to 
enes. 
study in the sunshine at the crossroads. 

In many ways, college prepares you to think independently. That's a great quality for an engineer to have. But just as important is the ability to work effectively on a team. We've found that the results of team work are much, much greater than the sum of the parts. That's why Fluor, one of the country's largest and leading engineer­ing and construction firms, is organized totally around the team concept. • 
As a new engineer you'll be assigned to a project that matches your 
abilities and Interests. You'll stay with the project from start to 
finish, all the while developing new skills and polishing your ability 
to contribute as a task force member. We think the approach 
makes you more capable of Independent creativity, not less. At the 
same time you're in the perfect position to learn from more experi­
enced professionals who come from many disciplines. For the new 
graduate in particular, that is a productive place to be. 
So if you're thinking about your potential In the job market, why not think about doubling it? Let us tell you more about the Fluor team and about the great salary, full benefits and advancement po­tential that make us a top Fortune 500 company. We will be Inter­viewing on campus Friday, ~e~r:._uary 27, 1981 for the following disciplines: 
Mechanical Engineering Electrical Engineering Civil Engineering Chemical Engineering 

For more details, contact your placement office. 
'ifFLUOR 

The Observer Thursday, February 19, 1981-page 10 
• • .Recruits 
continued from page 12 

One of those "few more" that the Irish hope to land is another Parade All-American, Van Pearcy. Capable of playing both running back and wide reciever, Pearcy had originally signed a non-bindins confer­ence letter-of-intent wtth South­ern Methodist. However, an investigation of the SMU athlet­ic department by the NCAA has prompted Pearcy to keep open other avenues. 
Assistant head coach Brian Boulac spent Wednesday night in Pearcy's home town, An­drews, Texas, and plans on staying there until the highly­touted speedster makes a ftnal decision. Pearcy would like to couple his collegiate football­playing days with a track ca­reer. During his sophomore season, Pearcy ran a 9.5 in the 100-yacd dash. He followed that a year later with a personal best :46.9 flat-out in the 440-yacd dash. 
Reportedly, a 4.0 student, Pearcy has also long-jumped 24-6. 
Notre Dame, of course, did not land everyone it had hoped to. Lineman Bill Fralic, Pa­rade's Player of the Year, has apparently written off Notre Dame. The Pittsburgh native called a press conference for early this morning, at which time he was expected to an­nounce he would stay at home and attend the University of 

Seni'or Bar Semi Formal! 
Sunday, Mar. 1 
Open Bar 9:30 to 2:00 $15.00 per couple free bo1i1ile of champagne 
Advance ticket sales at front door of~nior Bar 
Pittsburgh. Other schools that were reportedly in the running were Mtami (Fla.) and UCLA. 
Other top high school seniors around the country, and their choice of schools, ace: quarter­back Fred Buckley of Ft. Lau­derdale to Stanford; tackle Doug Williams of Cincinatti Moeller to Kentucky; quarter­back Sean Salisbury of Escon­dido, Calif., to Southern Cal; quanerback Mack Rypien of SJ?okane to Washington State; wtde reciever Brent Duhon of Port Arthur, Tex., to University of Texas; and tight end Nick Mecrick (brother of Notre Dame's Tom) of Bethel Pack, Pa., to Virginia. 
...Tripucka 
continued from page 12 
the rule. Head Coach Digger Phelps has gone on record as saying Kelly is his most charis­matic player and that Kelly recieves more mail than anyone else in his ten years at Notre Dame. 
"I never expected the mail," Tripucka says. "I still don't know how to handle it. I get between 300 and 400 letters a year from Hawaii, Maine and even overseas. People want programs and pictures and sweat bands. The want to be a pact of my life and I don't know how to handle it. If I do badly, I feel like I've let them down. They take the time to write and I really appreciate it. I answer what I can but my life is limited around here with school a~d 
ADVERTISEMENT 

IN FOl"R PARTS-~2 PAGES HOME-DELIVERED PART I-GENERAL NEWS·I~ PAGES LARGEST CLASSIFIED VOLl"ME C213) 970-4986 
.\LL THE NEWS WORLDWIDE 
~ORTHROP AIRCRAFT DIVISJO~ OFFICE 
DAILY FIVE CENTS
VOL. LIX 

ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS FEBRUARY 26 
Newest Northrop 
Fighter Advances 
F-5 Family March 24, 1980 ­Hawthorne, California 
The new generation of ;\lorthrop's F-:i family of low cost tactical fighter aircraft. the F-G G. was announced at Hawthorne today, stepping up a nearly 20-year evolutionary program for the company. The single-engined F-:iG was conceived to meet world defense needs today and through the 1990's, and offers an affordable. supportable defensive system' that keeps pace with the changing requirefll18.11ts for national security. 
February 1981 ;\lorthrop Airnaft is still designing and 
buildingh~~perlhrmanceairrmfitoday
in the company's mile-long. modern eom­plex in Hawthorne. California. For --10 years. we've promoted the people assoei­ated with our products and furnished one of the finest benefits paekages avail­able in the-industry including edueational reimbursement for employees in an ae­credited graduate study-program; a con­venient savings plan -for ever~· dollar invested, Northrop contributes i>O per· cent; and generous vacations-including a week long Christmas holiday. In addition to a creative work environment .vou'll enjoy Southern California's year round recreational paradise. And. Northrop's recreation club sponsors many enjo~'­able activities such as skii!:lg, golf and fishing. 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Ifyour interests are in TECHNICAL ENGI­NEERING which includes AERONAUTI­CAL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, COMPUTER SCIENCE, MATERIALS SCIENCE, orMATH. (B.S. and M.S. level). See Northrop today for your tomorrow. 
Contact the placement office to schedule an appointment with a Northrop representative. 
Aircraft Division 
If you can not meet with us at this time, please forward your resume to: 
Employment Office Dept. 1221/80 TS/UND 2815 El Segundo Blvd. Hawthorne, CA 90250 
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H 
NORTHROP 
Making advanc1ed technologywork. 

john Paxson displays a comely smile as he anticipates the Sunday showdown between Notre Dame and Virginia. [photo by]ohn Macor[ 
basketball. 

''The letters have become a pan of me," he continues. ''And if I really stand back and take a look at tt, I begin to feel like I'm doing something for them if I play well.'' 
But along with that fame comes stories that ace blown out of proportion. With Tripu­cka that story is his relation­ship--or lack of it--with Digger. ''That's what they want to write. Sure we have problems," Kelly grants. "But 90-95 per­cent of the time he is my best friend. I can go to him with any problem whether it be basket· ball, school, or personal life. To say he goes one way and I go another is a lie. He'll stick up for me, and I'll stick up for 
h.
tm. " 

In his four seasons, Kelly has ftrmly established his name in the Notre Dame record book. He is the ftfth all-time leading scorer, and among the leaders in fteld goal percentage, free throws made and number of games played. Like all good things, however, it will come to an end in May as Kelly will have new roads to travel. 
"I'd be lying to say I wasn't interested tn the pros," Kelly says. "It's what I wanted to do ever since I was a little kid. I'd like to J?lay and broadcast at the same ttme. I know it would be difficult. My ftrst priority is to play." 
But ftrst comes Kelly and his fellow seniors' goal that they set for themselves four years ago--the Spectrum on March 
30. I 

~**************~ 
: SUN & ROOMS: ~DAYTONA BEACH: 
~ $11.50 ~ 
:: • Nightly per person rate at::* the Silver Beach Inn * * Based on quad rooms * * • Directly on the beach ~ ~ • $22.50 per person/nita * * double $15.00 triple * * • Save upto $70.00 per room~! per week. * 
~ *FOR RESERVATION ~ * ; CALL COLLECT * 
~ * 414 278 3980 ~ 
'**************' 
'.•'•. 

Thursday, February 19, 1981-page 11 
All class•hed ads mus\ be rece1ved by 4 45 p m., two days pnor to the tssue 1n whtch the ad IS run. The Observer offtce will accept classtfu!ds Monc1ay through Fnday. 10:00 a m ro 5·00 p m All class1f1eds must be 
pre-patd et!her 1n PtHSOn or through the mad.
Classifieds 
INTERESTED IN NEWSPAPER Dear, Just when you thought it was safe to WORK--· PattiColleenFagan Al-be in your dorm on a Friday after­OBSERVER CheriShariMelinda noon: PORTAPARTY IIIII! Stan­
~___NO_T_IC_Es__.llL--_FO___.R_R_EN_T___./ '--I_PE_R_SO_N_A_Ls__. APPLY FOR lisonAmyLily 
EDITORIAL BOARD POSI­EliseLilyTeK Sue PatriceMoe ford 3EW will be at again. TIONS. GOOD PAYING JOBS MagsMoeScribbs and friends-FOR RENT -UGLY DUCK­
... ·························· Kellee likes 'em without ties. And ARE STILL AVAILABLE AT All my roommates are graduating! I 
PROFESSIONAL TYPING. Term LING RENT-A-CAR FROM $7.95 
shirts. And socks. Etc. THE FOLLOWING POSITIONS: The AnneK anxiously anticipates need 3 classmates to share my papers, theses, etc. Tape transcrip­A DAY AND 7 CENTS A MILE. 
---FEATURES EDITOR awesome Wildness Friday Night!!! Campus View apt. neKI yr. For tion. Last year's same low prices. PHONE 259-UGLY FOR 
COME HEAR "NEXT" WED. ---PHOTO EDITOR No 145,147,149. more info. call Kathy-277-8839. All work guaranteed. aardvark RESERVATIONS. 
FEB 18, 9:30-12 AT MARDI ---CONTROLLER -Craig,Biii,Joe, Tom. 
automatic M>lutions. 289-6753. 
GRAS. PITTSBURGHERS THERE
(ACCOUNTING MAJOR REQ.) 
For next school year, furnished WILL BE A I PITTSBURGH
---EDITORIALS EDITOR PS-No 128, Thanks for the VDDON'T WALK ALONE!!! houses, walk to campus, 277-3604/ 
MARDI GRAS '81 PRESENTS CLUB PARTY IN PLANNER'S
---SENIOR COPY EDITOR cards.
GET AN ESCORT!!! 288-0955. 
COMEDY NIGHT, THURS., (MUST HAVE EXPERIENCE) COMMONER THIS FRIDAY Student Escort Service-On-Call FEB. 19. NIGHT (FEB. 20). ALL MEM­
---SMC EXECUTIVE EDITOR Get a CLUE ladies! The SNAKE isSun to Thurs 7 to Midnight. Call 
---PRODUCTION MANAGER BERS ARE FREE. (BRING 6283 (OB UD) At the ND Library 10 in the SWAMP! 
COME SEE THE "OUTCASTS" -Casuai,Partydog; Killer. SOME POOF TO SHOW THAT to II :45 pm. All student Volun­
WANTED 
10:15 AT MARDI GRAS, N.B. WE ARE ALSO ACCEPT­YOU'RE FROM PITTSBURGH). 
teers. USE IT!!!!!! 

THURS., FEB. 19. ING APPLICATIONS FOR ATTENTION T.R. BRYSHI BE THERE! DON'T BE AFAID TO CALL! 
ROLE OF MANAGING EDITOR. Hope you have ~ great 15th
KAPLAN MCAT BOOKS. WILL KEV,
IT'S LAUGH TIME AT MARDI APPLICANTS MUST HAVE birthday! You're the best brother a
USED & OUT-OF-PRINT BUY, RENT OR BORROW. GRAS. COMEDY NIGHT, GOOD KNOWLEDGE OF sister could ever have! Love, You may be difficult at times like BOOKS bought, sold, searched. CALL STEVE AT 277-7759 AF­THURS., FEB. 1~ .• FEATURING NEWSPAPER OPERATIONS. Kat myself but I'm not given up, yet! ERASMUS BOOKS. Tues­TER II P.M. PAT BYRNES AND JIM You're too sweet and lovable to
GOOD MANAGEMENT SKILLS
Sunday, 12-6. 1027 E. Wayne (One MCCLURE AT 9:15, THE OUT­ever let go of! You're a very special 
ARE A MUST. ALL MAJORS
hlock south of Eddy-Jefferson in­,Stay at the lovely ABAD ABODE CASTS AT 10:15, friend and don't ever foget if there
WILL BE CONSIDERED WITH­SENIOR BAR !I
tersection) in Daytona Beach for Spring Break. is no one else to turn to I'll always
OUT BIAS. THIS IS ONE OF FOOSBALL TOURNAMENT!!Will provide free food and lodging MARDI GRAS '81 PRESENTS be there for you. 
THE HIGHEST PAYING STU­FOOSBALL TOURNAMENT!!
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND -at my home in Daytona if you give CRYSTAL, FRI., FEB. 20, 9:30-Hey, you' •c one helluva of guy!
DENT JOBS ON CAMPUS. LAST DAY TO SIGN UP IS SAT.
Emergency loans for ND students. me a ride (or will share eKpenses 
11:30 AND SAT., FEB. 21, 9:30-love.
FEB. 21. DOUBLES AND

$20-$200. One percent interest. and driving). Call Greg Abad 8101. 11:00. Elizabeth
DEADLINE: FRIDAY SINGLES COMI'ETITION JACKDue in one month. Open II :30­DIRECT APPLICATIONS AND DANIELS FOR THF. WINNERS 
12:30. M-F. Basement of Need a RIDE EAST to New COME HEAR SMOKEY JOE AT INQUIRIES TO JOHN AND SOME LOSERS!! BEEG, LaFortune. Final day fo scoiors to England any weekend before MARDI GRAS ON SAT., FEB. 21, YOU ARE THE GREATEST!!
McGRATH, OBSERVER (8661)
apply is friday, March 13. break. Will share usual. Call Lynne 
FROM 7-9 P.M. THANX FOR THE
SENIOR BAR LADIES NIGHTatl316 or8661. 

FRIDAY VALENTINES DAY HEARTS.
teri Hall!

HEY ALL NEW JERSEYIANS: 
ATTENTION ALL NEW JER­When are you going to pick me SENIOR BAR LADIES NIGHT ST. PETER, ST. PAUL, the NY'er COME TO THE N.J. CLUB Desperately need ride to Dallal; or 
SEYIANS: up. in the lobby? I'm waiting for FRIDAY 
HAPPY HOUR THIS FRIDAY any surrounding area (including 
THE N.J. CLUB WILL BE your G. E. SENIOR BAR LADIES NIGHT ASSASSIN IS COM I NO!!!!! AS­I'EBRUARY 20. SEE THE Arkansas or Okluhoma) for spring 
HAVING A HAPPY HOUR THIS FRIDAY SASSIN IS COMING!!:.:: NEWSLETTER FOR MORE IN-break. Will share cost. Michele 41­
FRIDAY!!! SEE THE A RAFFLE FOR THE WOMEN
g.lynn.g.mary
1'0!!! 5110 
NEWSLETTER FOR MORE IN­oh, it's such a crazy world and i'm AND DRINK SPECIALS FOR MARY. I STEP ON YOUR SHOE
FO. DON'T MISS IT!!! YOU not here to steal it from you but EVERYONE WOMEN COME 
CRYSTAL ROCKS Friday & DESPERATELY NEEDED 2 OR 
DESERVE SOME FUN!! ONE COME ALL FRIDAY MORE EACH DAY!!
some would like to give you a part
Saturday nights ul Mardi Gras. 3 TICKETS FOR THE N.D­TEX
of theirs.sweet things.i will lly if NIGHT 
U.V.A. BASKETBALL GAME. 
THERE ARE A LIMITED you say 'away'OPEN A DOOR TO THE SOPHO­EX-DOMER WANTS TO SEE To my roomies, ex-roomies, neigh­
AMOUNT OF SEATS LEFT ON TO ALL YOU ETERNALLY
seagull
MORE LITERARY FESTIVAL THE GAME. ANYONE WITH 
THE N.J. CLUB BUS FOR PERFECT SCUMMY LOVES: bors, and friends, march 1-7 TICKETS PLEASE CALL RAY SPRING BREAK. THE BUS JUST JEALOUS Thanks for rny special slumber
Women of Notre Dame-S!. Mary's YOU'RE283-6652 GOES TO EAST BRUNSWICK did you ever want to seduce a CAUSE YOU KNOW WE'RE party. I love you all. 
JOB OPENING for dependable 
AND N.Y.C. COST IS $73.00 priest? How about the next best BETTER. MAYBE SOMEDAY Skip 
person 10 work in coltcgc-rcluted Need ride to Philly, York, or D.C. 
ROUND TRIP. CALL KEVIN AT YOU TOO WILL BE ABLE TO
thing? Call TIM HAYES for a date. 
bookstore. 25-30 hrs. a week. PAN­area for spring break. Can leave by 
7687 OR CHRIS AT 4479 BE­DO DISCO MAGIC! BUT WE'LL Bestiality lives in room 324 HolyDORAS BOOKS, 937 S. Bend Av. 3-11. Call Jr-1177 
TWEEN 6 AND 10 P.M. FOR NEVER CAST SCUMMY Cross, for appointment contact
IT'S ENGINEERS WEEK­233-2342 MORE INFO. 
Kiss your favorite metallurgist LOVES! LOVE, TINA & MISS Brad 3187 SWEENEY
BIG BOOK SALE un all theology marry me.
shirley, if you do, i'll 
Natsu-gusa ya Help!
and science titles. Used bks. 50 I I. FOR SALU 
never bother you about checks Ann Landers says: 
lsuwamono-domo ga It's out of control--I've createdufl or2 for I usc price. New hks. 20/ 
aguin yume no ato. Have a problem? Can't sleep'/ a monster! Moosel'atcls, Mouses­off. I'ANDORAS BOOKS, 937 S. 
scoop NINJA Can't work? Can't? Killed anyone sippi, Moosclini, Moosic,
ARMSTRONG FLUTE. USED OCCASIONALLY. $4CXl OR recently? Constipated? Fall down Camoose... I'm going cra1.y! I only REST 0 FFER. 232-9782 IN Janc-o, NORMAN, ARE YOU SURE and go boo-boo? wrote the first three, and now look! 
i would like you to know that no DON'T BE A Well, you have to do is GET Get me a poacher from the Yukon. 
Bend Av. 233-2342 
YOU WANT TO all maller what happens, we're allEVENINGS. 
DENTIST'! YOU'RE ALSO COUNSELING! Ryan Ver Berkmoes r;;; s~r~:. i9ti(i ·R~i~i~,;· ;,·~~~·; (;;~~j d<Jomed anyway! (haven't heard QUITE BLONDE LOOKING, P.S. Moose Springsteen was the 
that in a while, have you?) write me YOU KNOW. SWINE FEVER---CATCH IT!!! last straw ... 
LOST/FOUND 
Prix bicycle with new Brooks seal. 
someday, whenever you get around 
$250 or reasonable offer. Call 232­6433 after 10:30 p.m. or write lo to it, ok? Corky---Hi from the little? girl you PORK EM, HOGS, PORK EM!! Note to the mouses: Ryan really tim 
met at the party Friday night. means it -he's not responsible.
Owen Lippert, Dept. of History,
LOST-A SILVER BRACELET­ps-thanks again for the !lowers and SPORTS STAFF MEETING He's not M•10se Control.
Campus.

WATCH. CALL n,RESE AT 277-the scoop pen! Ccme see the dynamic ANN EVERY THURSDAY P. S. Beware of the red-headed 
8037 REWARD$$$$$ RAVEN and her super band poacher from the Yukon! Geepers, Scoop, why don't you HAPPY ENGINEERS WEEK
CRYSTAL rock at Mardi Gras 
leave the poor girl alone?
FOUND: ONE SET OF KEYS ON Friday and Saturday Night .... APHRODITE Shelly,
TICKETS
ORANGE RING NEAR CAMPUS YOUR WIT, CHARM, AND I really didn't eKpect anything VIEW APTS. CALL 1816 GET READY NOTRE DAME CHECK OUT THOSE GUYS-­CONCEIT ARE UNCHALLEN­like that! You really made my day. MEN! GABLE. I ADMIRE YOUR IN­·
Need three G.A. tix for DAYTON, THEY'RE REALLY GOOD Love, 
LOST: ONE 14 KT. GOLD JULIE OLINGER'S BIRTHDAY DIVIDUALITY AND
I'LEEAAASSSSE! Call Kathy at The Captain and Control Your "personal" friend BRACELET WITH INITIALS. IS THIS SATURDAY. PE SURE UNIQUENESS.
289-5026. 

I' LEASE CALL4336. TO GET YOUR KISSE1. what do
So, you think? So we'll Moose Control has done it again. I NEED MANY DAYTON TIX, have the lowest G.P.A. on campus, He has erred most grievously. Hen­
LISA, LOST: EYEGLASSES, RIM-OPEN HOUSE at Augusta this NEVER HAVE MET
STUDENT AND GA-PLEASE and .we'll have to face Jay Board. rik Ibsen's An Enemy ofthe People LESS, BROWN CASE, 127 Sunday, 2-4 p.m. for interested The Barn has endured worse. SOMEONE AS SINCERE, was improperly quoted yesterday.
CALL BETH AT 1715 OR 277­
Nl EUWI.A ND, LAST M037. Saint Mary's students! Remember--" I never let my school­WARM, AND CARING AS YOU. The line frum the play 
reads: THURSDAY. CALLJOE 1183. ing interfere with my education." HAVE A GOOD LIFE. " ... the strongest man in the world N~ed many dayton tiK. Call Monica If you want the best then forget the ---Mark Twain P.S. I HAD A GREAT DAY WED­
is he who stands most ulonc." 
LOST: AT Bl' PARTY FRIDAY rest and vote for: RODGERS "Yep, Yep, Yep, Yep, Yep, Yep." NESDAY EVEN THOUGH IT I fear for Control. He is not him­
at 41-5154. NIGHT, RED PLAID SCARF. ..... ............. BOLDT ---L.B. STARTED OUT LOW. self these days. Perhaps he has felt PLEASE CALL 1284. Moose Control still looking fbr Vir-CLARKE a disturbance in Control ... Perhaps 
ginia tix. Call8661. ' FLAHERTY JESUIT VOLUNTEER SMC CLASS OF '84 he is occupied by the assault he LOST: MEN'S FUR-LINED THEY'LL DO IT FOR YOU IN CORPS ... Creative Vote DUVIC, . knows the red-headed poacher and LEATHER GLOVES IN RP ON Need a date? 2 Chicago-bound '82!!!!! Simplicity ... People involved with Aisthorpe, his allies arc preparing to mount JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND. foxes desperately need tix for Vir­People. If interested, Sun .. Feb.22 Flynn, next month. Perhaps he is not CALL 12K4. ginia game (or else they will end up Nancy, Mary Beth, Sarah, & Ann, at 7:00pm., Katie Carter from JVC & Orr strong enough to bear the tremen­
on Rush Street!) Call Passionate Best of luck to you on Thursday! I along with a few N.D. grads will be CLASS OFFICERS! dous burden he has undertaken. LOST: ELECTRIC TIMEX Polly at 8008. You'll be glad you know you'll do it. in the Library Lounge to talk with I must save him -or destroy WATCH, BLACK BAND, ON did! M.E. all interested. All are welcome. HOW FAR CAN $6 SEND YOU? him. 
SATURDAY NIGHT AROUND PS ... Ready for l:riday afternoon? ALL THE WAY TO NEW OR­Captain A•e I NEED TWO DAYTON TIX, THEFOURTORTURESOFPAT
SOUTH QUAD. CALL KEN, LEANS! SMC SENIOR CLASS 3779. "Vincent the Comforter: The Min­PRESENTS A SUITCASE
G.A. OR STUDENT WILL PAY BORCHERS CAPTAIN AXE: FOLLOW
istry of Vincent· van Gogh." Fri. PARTY! FEB. 26 AT LEE'S.
YOUR PRICE. KATIE4451. I) SEEING HIM SOMOZA, THE CZAR, ANDFOUND: bracelet, between Grace Washington Hall-8p. m. lllustrated CHECK POSTERS FOR TICKET
2) LISTENING TO HIM THE SHAH INTO THE Need 4-6 tickets for Dayton. Will
and D·l, has the name "Gcri" in­presentation by HENRI LOCATIONS.
3) BEING HIS BLIND DATE REPRESSIVE TRASH HEAP OF
scribed on front und a dale on huck, NOUWEN. Free.
pay big$$$. Call Joe 4625 4) BEING SEEN WITH HIM MODERN CIVILIZATION...also has 2 <'harms. To claim cull RENEGADE COWS WORK
BORCHERS TORTURES DEATH TO MOOSE CONTROL 
H6J9. Needed: Two to Presentation & Discussion CHEAP.
tickets Virginia. PATBORCHERSFORUMOC For rich brother. $$$ Call Sean at 
"Someone in My Family Drinks Tom Nash 
Lynne,

LOST: GREEN JADE HEART Too Much; t-he effects of problem
1588. FOUR MORE TORTURES OF 
Remember I'm in your corner!
CHARM between McCandless drinking on the family." Monday, WHERE HAS ALL THE
PAT BORCHERS 
Ryan
Parking Lot and LeMans. Oreal Feb. 23 6 PM Holy Cross Hall SMC CHUTZPAH GONE?
NEED 2 VIRGINIA TIX! WILL 5) BEING HIS ROOMMATE PAY ANYTHING CALL PAT AT 6) BEING HIS MOTHER
sentimental value. Please cull Neil, Kenny, and Babs-
Dear friend of Hugh's, we need you more than ever. Q: Who was the most prolific writer 
Tercsu at47H8. 234 9657 AFTER 7 p.m. 7). KISSING HIM (ICK!!!) 
Thank you for the !lower on the MIKELA BURTON in the Yukon? 
8) SEEING HIM IN THE A: Anony Moose, to he sure! 
14th, I loved it! I'm really curious, LOST: A T.l. calculator, probably 
Need I or 21ickets for VIRGINIA SHOWER 
Muosc Control
around South Dining Hall. Please who are you?! Somebody give Frankie a few 
or DePaul vs ND. Pay BIG$$$ Call PAT"OXY 10" BORCHERS FOR Note to Geoffrey (T.J. ?) Chaucer
Beth inches.
call Ann, Ml63. Ticn 272-7447 UMOC in the English Department: Your
...............................

BORCHERS TORTURES! 
joke is as old as The Miller's Wife.
Happy 21st B-Day Lisa! LONG ISLAND CLUB BUS forFOUND: An utl-white glove at the NEEDED!! 2 DAYTON GA TIX And it, too, has been used by ot­
Good Luck & Happiness always. Spring break, sign-ups on Tuesday, Love, Me February 24 at 7:00 PM. Little hers. 
ACC ufter the UCLA game. Ann FOR PARENTS. GOOD $$$. EVEN A ROOM IN MOTEL 6 
8163. PLEASE CALL FRANK AT8295. COSTS $11.95! SECOND PRIZE
P.S. Hope you survive the day, Theatre, La Fortuune. Must pay ~econd note to Carson Daly:
SENDS YOU TO THE SENIOR 
Roomie Mike Onufrak has nothing to do
LOST: TI5KC CALCULATOR IN full amouunl when signing up. 
FORMAL. SMC SENIOR CLASS with Moose Control, although hisNORTH DINING HALL ON 
Needed 2 or 3 GA Dayton Tix. INSTANT CASH PAID FOR SUITCASE PARTY AT LEE'S writings occasionally appear in this SHYT68.. LONG TIME NO PER­SONAL...TILL WE MEET UN­2117/KI. CALL KAREN AT 1263. Please call Michele 41-5110 CLASS RINGS, $20-$85 OR FEB. 26. 
column. A Moose is loose in theMORE. WE MAKE HOUSE ST. MARY'S STUDENTS: DER JUPITER. Enchanted Forest! (Is there noLOST: STAINLESS STEEL NEED TIX-RIDE TO VA-ND CALLS. 255-2402. 
escape from the all-seeing eye ofToday, vote for experience, dedica­
PARKER PEN ... WITH SEN-GAME!! JIM 3349 
evenjana knows how to koob! .......................
tion and resourcefulness Moose Control?) VOTE: 
TIMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM 
PLEASE CALUK82. NEED4 DAYTON TICKETS, GA SERIES ENDS THIS WEEK Angie, Dear John Paxson, 
MITCHELL
OR STUDENT. 232-0982 WITH "THE GREEN WALL." Here is your long-awaited We deliver! Check out page 10. 
BOURJAILY
LOST: one LEACH raquetball "heavenly message." Told you Kathy & MargaretPAGNUCCI
racket -brown-if found please Need two Dayton GAs$$$ Jim 277-THE FULFlLLMENT OF THE you'd get yours! Happy Golden P. S. We love you for your mind,
Your ticket to responsible govern­too.
Cllll 88M2 After II p.m. 0331 PROMISE DEPENDS ON Birthday! We love ya, 
ment.

FAITH... Your buddies 



Thursday, February 19, 1981-page 12 
Preps sign intent letters 
By DAVE IRWIN and PAUL MULLANEY 
1981 NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL RECRUITS 
POS. NAME HT WT HOMETOWN
Yesterday was the ftrst day 
DE JoeBars 6-5 210 Farmington, Mich. school seniors to national foot­that colleges could sign high 
TE Mark Bavaro 6-5 245 Danvers, Mass. ball letters-of-intent, but Notre 
FB Mark Brooks 6-3 219 Cincinnati, Ohio Dame's policy is not 'to release 
C Tom Doerger 6-5 235 Cincinnati, Ohio the names ofIts signees until all 
G Joe Fazio 6-4 250 Willingboro, N.J. have been cleared through the 
TE Robbie Finnegan 6-4 225 Dallas, Texas University's admissions office. 
LEf Mike Golic 6-4 230 Willowick, Ohio The Observer, however, has 
DB Joe Johnson 6-2 180 Fostoria, Ohio learned the names of 18 student 
QB Ken Karcher 6-2 195 Glenshaw, Pa. athletes (11 Parade All-Ameri­
LB Mike Kiernan 6-2 235 Newport, Ky. cans( who are believed to be 
LB Mike Lane 6-2 205 Cincinnati, Ohio among those who have com­
LB Mike Larkin 6-2 200 Cincinnati, Ohio mitted themselves to attend 
DE Tony Leonard 6-3 205 Cincinnati, Ohio Notre Dame. 
Line Tony Piccin 6-3 240 Whitehall, Pa. Heading the list of incoming 
OT Martin Roddy 6-7 240 Lansdale, Pa. freshman is 6-3 fullback Mark 
LB Tom Roggeman 6-1 215 Tucson, Ariz. Brooks, who played for new 
RB Chris Smith 6-2 220 Cincinnati, Ohio Irish coach Gerry Faust at 

Line Larry Williams 6-6 235 Santa Ana, Calif. Cincinnati's Moeller High School. Brooks, a Parade All­
Amerkan, was ·named Ohio's Linebacker Mike Golic, bro­] oe Bars, a 6-5, 210 defensive Player of the Year for 1980. ther of former Irish standout end from Birmingham, Michi­
Brooks will be accompanied Bob and current ND performer gan (Brother Rice), also intends to No1tre Dame by two high Greg, will attend Notre Dame to enroll here in the fall. Bars is school teammates, linebackers this fall. At 6-4, 230, Golic was somewhat familiar to the Notre Mike Larkin (6-2, 200 pounds) a Parade performer for Saint Dame scene, as he is next-door 
Senio1 Kelly Tn'pucka muscles around a La Salle player and Mike Lane (6-2, 205). Joseph's High School in Cleve­neighbor and very good friend earlier this season. Tn'pucka will be the key to Notre Larkin was also a member of land. of Irish basketball player Tim flame's advancement in the NCAA tourney in March. the Parade All-American team. Other Parade stars believed Andree. 
to be en route to Notre Dame Administrative assistant Joe are: linebacker Tom Rogge­Y onto could not conftrm any of man, Tuscon; lineman Tony the reproted signin~s, but indi­Piccin, Whitehall, Pa.; defens­cated that ''recruitmg is going
Tripucka leads Irish drive to finals 
ive back]oe Johnson, Fostoria, well. You might say there is a 
Ohio; lineman Larry Williams, balance this year--an equal By DAVE IRWIN set plays. _ college established by Father Santa Ana, California; running number of offensive and de­Sports Wn'ter . "I do like -to post up," Sarin more than 100 years ago, back Chris Smith, Cincinnati fensive people . 
Tripucka says. "But I feel I can Notre Dame athletes have con­(Elder(; quarterback Ken Kar­"Generally speaking, it looks 
Notre Dame surely has estab­come outside, too. It makes me sistently been in the spotlight. cher, Glenshaw, Pa.; tight end like a good year, " Y onto said. lished itself as one of the more of a threat. The quickness Tripucka is even an exception to Mark Bavaro, Danvers, Mass.; "If we sign a few more it could nation's basketball power­has helped.'' and tight end Robbie Finnegan, be a great recruiting season." 
Se(~ TRIPUCKA, page 10
houses after being invited' sev­Right now, Kelly feels he is Dallas. See RECRUITS, page 10 en consecutive times to the at the top of his game. Tripucka NCAA Championships, but it averages more than 19 points has never won that coveted and SIX caroms a game despite tide. Kelly Tripucka would love playing just more than three­nothing better than to change quarters of a game. 
A part ofsotnething great 
that. ''I'm shooting the best I've 
"That's the only ~oal I shot since I've been here," have," Tripucka says. ' That's Kelly states. Indeed he is, as the only goal our team has. Tripucka is connecting on close Winning the national champ­to 57 percent form the floor and This game is gonna be fun. ionship would be the greatest 87 percent at the line--a fact -Digger Phelps thing that ever happened to that he is as proud, if not more me--especially this year--be­proud of, than any of his other For lthe hundreds of loyal Domers who will make cause the NCAA fmals are in accomplishments. their way to Rush Street, the Loop and the Rosemont Philadelphia, which is close to "I take pride in my free Horizon this weekend, Digger Phelps' prediction my horn,e. " throw shooting,'' the Essex should certainly prove true. But Phelps wasn't think­
This season concludes four Falls, N.J., native says. "When ing about them when he made that statement. years of hard work for the I miss I take it personally. If I He was talking to his players and assistant coaches senior tri-captain, four years don't hit 80-85 percent, I feel who were probably staring blankly at him as they tried that Notre Dame has consis­like I'm not commg through. " to figure out how two hours against the No. I team in prof~ssor in your_favorite class, Digger explains his tently proven itself of a champ­Notre Dame's tradition has the country could be fun. Challenging, d~finitely. strategy as the players watch Virginia overcome a ionship caliber. Tripucka's ca­made the school a national Tiring, certainly. Frightening, perhaps. nine-point deficit to beat North Carolina, courtesy the reer began with a 16-point, university. I could have been But fun? Sony videotape machine. He and assistants Tom seven-rebound perfornance in especially captivating for Kelly, c•sunday will be one o'fthose moments," Phelps ex­McLaughlin, Pete Gillen, and Gary Brokaw have only 16 minutes of action, and since his dad, Frank, walks plained! later. "These guys have a chance to be a part spent hours and hours dissecting the same tape. To 106 games later it has boiled around the house with two of som,ething great. ..a part of something that makes them it must seem like a re-run of one of those rotten down to Virginia, DePaul, three national championship football Notre Dame what it is. Maybe the younger kids don't B-movies seen only on the late, late show. relative push-overs, and the rings from the Frank Leahy understand it yet. Sampson Conquers the World. NCAA's. This year, however, days, when the elder Tripucka "Bull they will." Only in this version the bad guy always wins. has featured a slightly slimmer was a star quarterback. For itt is just such "moments" that Digger Phelps One of the things Digger stresses is that Notre Tripucka. "He didn't put any pressure has thrived on these last teQ years at Notre Dame. He Dame really can win the game-which might come as 
"I lost 15-20 pounds staning on me," Kelly says. "I've got has cr,~ated a monster that people have come to a bit of a surprise to anyone who's seen or heard any­in September," Kelly said. "I five brothers and one sister and believe will naturally run over any top-ranked team thing about Ralph Sampson. But I guess it's a pretty didn't eat as much and I gave none of them went here. But he that dares to appear on his schedule. Time after good place to start. After all, it's kind a tough to play up beer completely--which was still thinks it is the greatest memorable time (seven to be exact) Phelps has led his against someone whom everyone thinks can walk on really hard to do. The weight place. I knew he wanted me to team to upsets over teams perched at the top of the water-and not get his socks wet. came right off. I did it to be go here, but he never influ­weekly wire-service polls. And there is a way to stop Ralph and his friends-a quicker and to help my overall enced my choice." Just as if it was planned that way; as if it were group which, by the way, includes some pretty fair game.'' "The people, Digger, aca­figured in a well-stacked deck of cards. players. Senior guard Jeff Lamp has been known to 
Kelly's back problems also demics, when you add it all up So it's not surprising that Digger appears relaxed at cause opposing coac_hes a headache now and then. were a factor in his campaign t it equals the greatest school I his team's first real practice for Virginia. This is not And it would be a gross mistake for anyone to assume slim down. "It relieves pres­could have chosen," Tripucka new to him. He's been here before. that the rest of the team is just coming to Chicago to sure on my back,'' he comment­says. "Nobody even comes One sees a different side of the man at practice ses­carry Sampson's suitcases. ed. Tripucka missed four games close. sions like this. The well-dressed, seemingly-frantic "Virginia is a good team with a few outstanding last season with a back injury "Now, South Bend, that's figure who perches on one knee at the end of the bench players," Digger points out during a break in the ac­and is currently seeing a local different,'' Kelly half-seriously, on game days, becomes Digger the Teacher, patiently tion." What we have to do is play our game, offensive­chiropractor. half-jokingly says. "I'm not a explaining to his players what Virginia will try to do ly and defensively, do what we know we can do and 
His improved quickness has midwestern person, I'm not a ~ and what they will have to do to stop them. believe in ourselves. seen a change in Kelly's style of snow person, I'm not a South To the less-educated observers ii.e. yours truly) "If we do that we will win the game." play. He brings the ball up Bend person. That's the only words such as "downscreen," "post-up," "1~2-2," Then he returns to teaching his players what they against the press, and handles fault. Put the Golden -Dome in and "2-2-1 ," mean little. The only thing that counts is must know to do that. Today they learn theirlessons.. the ball when the Irish go to Florida or California .... '' seeing the ball go through the hoop. their delay game and various With the fame· of a little But the players understand. Like your favorite Sunday they take the test. 





