' ' ' Reaganomics Page 4 


VOL XVI, NO. 64 an independent srudent newspaper serving nmre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1981 
Layoffs ended 

Reagan signs emergency bill 

WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan signed late yc!?terday a revised emergency money bill that Congress rushed to him I 0 hours af­ter he vetoed its forerunner and shut down much of the government, true to a double-barbed vow not to tolerate "business as usual." 
Passagt· of the new measure endt·d, for now, a confrontation with Congress which triggered Reagan's first veto, the layoffs of hundreds of thousands of federal employees and the closing of all "nonessential" offices. 
Reagan appeared pleased about the nt·w bill, even though it amounts to just a three-week breather before a budget issue must be addressed ~ or settled -anew. He signed it im­mediately, then headed for his ranch in California for a Thanksgiving vaca­tion, a respite delayed by the budget battle. 
"I just signed the extension," Rt·agan told reporters as he boarded his helicopter. "Of course, we now must come back and do tht· work all ovt'f again, in tht· Congress, on a hill that t·an he signt·d. Hut I am glad !i.>r this extension, ·so no Oill''s holidays Wt'rt· di~rupted." 
The president hdic:vcs "tht·rc is a lot more work to be done," deputy prt·ss secretary Larry Spt·akes 
related.  "llc:'s  looking  forward  to  
working  with  Congrt·ss  wht·n  ht·  
returns.  

President Reagan earlier yester­day vetoed an emt~rgency spending hill to restore funds to federal agencies and told his Cabinet to "cut down, shut down and eliminate all nonessc:ntial government services." 
Within hours, the House began debate on another cmergt·ncy bill to gl'l the dollars moving again. 
But Republicans said the proposal hy Ilouse Democrats to allow spend­ing to continue at the old rate until Feb. 3, 19H2, was unacceptable. They said they would press for a measure expiring Dec. IS, and said Reagan would veto any hill that went longn than that. 
It was Rt·agan's first veto in I 0 months of office. House Democrats conceded they lacked the votes to override the veto and made no at­tempt to try. 
Reagan told reporters minutes af­ter signing the veto that the bill posed "a difficult choice" for him. In an example to other agencies, The rejection sends the measure the White House began furloughing hack to Congress. I SO of its 3S I employees without 

The president went from his ses­pay. sion with reporters to an emergency Reagan told reporters that the meeting with his Cabinet. choice he faced was "either to sign a 
"Essentially, the president told us budget-busting appropriations bill we're going to shut the government that would finance the entire down, and we're going to go back to government at levels well above my our departments and start the shut­recommendations, and thus set back down right now ...We're going to our efforts to halt the excessive close our files, turn out the lights government spending that has 
and go home," Transportation fueled inflation and high interest Secretary Drew Lewis said as he 
See REAGAN, page 4
emerged from the meeting. 
ND Press plans to publish book about Cardinal Cody 
By MARK ROLFES 
StaffReporter 
Cardinal William Cody, arch· 
bishop of Chicago, enjoys absolute 
power over his diocese, like most 
other bishops in America. That this 
power, however, shoukl he: shared 
among all the: prit:sts of a diocese: is 
the: main point ofa nc:w book bv Rev. 
Charles Dahm, O.P. · 
The book, cntitlc:d "Power and 
Authority in the Catholic Church: 
Cardinal Cody in Chicago," will be 
published by the University of Notre 
pame Press next month. 
Jim Langford, Director of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame Press, talked about the book, calling the book a history ofCody's intern.:actions with the clergy ofChicago and church or­ganizations that tried to implement Vatican II power-sharing ideals. 
The book also aims at something larger, according to Langford: Cody's style as a church hierarch. The church system has given bis­hops and cardinals almost unlimited power within their diocese. The book discusses what happens when there are no checks and balances or sharing in decision making. 
Dahm says that the system needs to be rethought. Langford stressed that the book does not question the integrity of Cody or of bishops in general, but instead suggests th~t their power be' shared with other priests, whose morale can be un-



Student Government ends on-call escorts 
Editor's note: The Observer incorrectly reported yesterday that the Campus Escort System has been placed on a trial basis this u•eek. The Observer apologizes for this error and the corrected ar­ticle about the seroin! appears below. 
By MARGARET FOSMOE 
StaffReporter 
Student Government has discontinued use of the on-call number for the Student Escort System, based on results from last week's evaluation, according to Brian Conway, Student Security Commis­sioner. The escort service will continue at the library. 
The escort service was placed on a trial basis last week in order to evaluate a lack ofinterest in the program. 
The on-call number, which allowed women to call the service Ito he escorted from anywhere on campus, had been utilized little. During the week-long evaluation, only one call was received. 

Conway concluded, "One call was not sufficient to warrant continuing the service. The on-call number wiH be dropped." 
Escorts will continue to be available at the library Sunday through Thursday from IO-Il :4S pm. 
dcrmincd by thdr lack ofinput. 
The book was made ready ti.>r publication before the recent con­troversy concerning alleged finan­cial misdoings by Cody and docs not comment on the charges against 

· him. Langtiml a<.ldcd that the: book does not Mudy Cody's financial dealings as much as it docs his relationships with other members of the clerb'Y 
That the hook may he somewhat 
See DAHM, page 3 
'Somehow saintly ' 

Muller studies laundry service 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE and MARK BOENNIGHAUSEN 
News Staff 
Notre Dame's Saint Michael's Laundry seems to be 
everyone's favorite enemy. Many male students take of­
fense to even the suggestion that the laundry is some­
how saintly. 
One laundry worker has heard it all before. "Gee, you 
know," she says sarcastically, "we just throw the clothes 
in the corner and grab them as we can. Isn't that what 
most kids think?" 
Perhaps. But that is certainly not what newly ap­
pointed Laundry Director Norm Muller thinks. The 
retired Air Force colonel with degrees in mathematics 
and engineering · 
has a 

speci~l TUESDAY.._ 
fondness for logt­
c~.~~u~~:nc;~ing :...FOCUS to see a marked increase in both the quality and speed in getting the laundry done," Mul­ler says enthusiastically as he smiles behind his desk. He actually joined the laundry operation three years ago, but this summer when the former director, eyeing retirement, stepped down, Muller grabbed the reins of rhe laundry and its half-a-million-dollar annual budget. 
During his tenure as assistant director, Muller in­itiated several quality reforms that freshmen now take for granted. And now as director, he plans on intensify­ing his efforts. 
He is responsible for much of the laundry's new equipment. He is also the architect of the laundry's detailed system of washing and drying. Everything is timed, color-coded and precise. The washers them­!ielves are carefully programmed according to exact chemical-temperature formulae. 
Quality improvements, however, will inevitably in­crease with time, but a more challenging problem before Muller is efficiency. 
Muller despises long lines and delays. He has a list of ideas to increase the laundry's speed, but as Muller him­self realizes perhaps too well, the laundry is not one of the university's highest priorities. 
A Student Senate suggestion to improve the laundry by making the_laundry fees optional is stalled because 

no one can find space to place the needed self-operated 
washing machines. 
Muller himself dreams of a laundry where students 
pick up their bundles, show proper identification, and 
then leave without ever waiting in a line for a card 
punch. Charges would go through a computer system 
instead of through a cash register. 
Presently, students arc allocated $2.60 per week, and if the cost of their laundry exceeds this limit, the stu­dent can either charge or pay cash. Muller's idea would eliminate this and thereby end the paradox of the stu­dent who is under the limit for eight weeks, and then must pay when he goes over on the ninth week. 
Also, students currently cannot charge bills of under 
SO cents. "I hope that will be changed," Muller said. 
Any changes, however, are still "several years" away. 
What Muller needs initially is a new computersystem to 
allow him to collect and analyze the needed data. Vice 
President for Business Affairs Thomas Mason knows this 
and is sympathetic. But a computer system for the 
laundry is at the bottom ofhis priorities. And computer 
systems, Mason added, are not cheap. 
"Is it worth putting 4000 students on a computer just 
to keep track ifthey're over or under (the $2.60 limit)?" 
he asked. "I could guarantee you that it would cost 
more than the benefits. The Colonel (the name Muller 
often goes by) is just one of many people wanting a 
computer." 
Other departments, like the financial aid office that 
obtained a new system last year, take precedence over 
See WASH, page 3 


Happy Thanksgiving, 
The Observer will not be 
published during Thanksgiving 
break. The next issue will be 
published Tuesday, Dec. I. The 
Observer business offices will 
close today at S p.m. and will _open again Monday at 9 a.m. 

••, 

Tuesday, November 24, 1981 -page 2 




ewsBriefs 

I 
r 

By lbe ( Jhsert•(•r and The Associated Press 

The Saint Mary's Annual Christmas Bazaar will be held the week of Dec. 7-11 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the LeMans Hall lobby, according to Chairman Sue Murphy. The traditional event, sponsored by the Student Activities Planning Board, includes various booths run by a number ofstudent clubs and local organiza­tions. In addition to food and raffle tickets, small items such as key chains, pottery, and other Christmas gift ideas will be sold. Santa Claus will also be available for student photos. The Saint Mary's Wind Ensemble will be present at various times throughout the week to provide Christmas mu,ic. "We expect a good turnout at this year's bazaar. We have about 20 groups signed up so far and have room for a maximum of 35," said Murphy. The money raised will be donated to two charities, Hospice of St. Joseph County, Inc., and St. Jude's Children's Hospital. -The Observer 
Oxygen masks are more accessible, hoses are more 
compactly placed, a shorter wheel base will better accommodate 
campus driving and a closed cab will eliminate open-air trips in 
freezing weather. Those are but a few ofthe advantages ofthe Notre 
Dame fire station's new fire engine. The new unit was recently 
delivered to the campus fire station and replaces an engine that had 
been in use since 1947. Jack Bland, director of fire safety, and 
Brother Borromeo ToMalley, C.S.C., fire chief, said that whiie the old 
and new units are similar, the new engine provides greater efficiency 
with separate compartments for updated equipment. The new 
engine should also prove more economical with a diesel engine. It 
features powt:r steering and an automatic transmission for ease in 
driving. The old engine will remain at the campus station as a backup 
unit. The new engine was built to Notre Dame specifications by the 
Universal Fire Apparatus Corp. ofLogansport on a Ford chassis from Shamrock Ford of South Bend. Cost of the new engine is $57,660, compared with S10,000 in 1947 when the old engine was delivered from the Peter Pirsch Co. in Kenosha, Wisconsin. -The Observer 
Isabel Charles, former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, has been named assistant provost at the University of Notre Dame by Prof. Timothy O'Meara, provost, and will assume the posi­tion next August. Charles will replace M3!f Katherine Tillman, as­sociate professor in the General Program ofLiberal Studies, who will return to teaching following a year of research on sabbatical. When Tillman took the administrative position in 1979, she did so for. a three-year period. Charles, currently on leave, received her graduate education at Notre Dame and was awarded a Ph.D. in English in 1965. She joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1973, was appointed acting dean ofArts and Letters in 1975 and dean a year later, the first woman dean in the University's history. She left the position after the 
1980-81 academic year. -The Observer 
Soviet President Leonid 1. Brezhnev yesterday in Bonn rejected President Reagan's proposal for eliminating European­range nuclear missiles, but offered a unilateral reduction of Soviet missiles as "a gesture of good will." Brezhnev appeared to make his offer contingent on the United States accepting a moratorium on deploying or upsrading medium-range nuclear delivery systems during U.S.-S<>viet arms talks, which open Monday in Geneva. in a banquet speech following a day of talks with Chancellor Helmut Schmidt, Brezhnev renewed the Kremlin call for such a moratorium, saying that if the United States accepted, he would suspend further stationing of multiple warhead SS-20 missiles as well as other such systems. "We would go further," he added. "As a gesture ofgood will we could unilaterally reduce a portion of our nuclear weapons of 
medium range in the European part of the U.S.S.R." -AP 
National security adviserRichard V. Allen wrote 
in a government financial disclosure statement that he sold his 
consulting firm in January 1978, but now,· according to a White 
House lawyer, says the sale actually took place early this year. In the 
disclosure statement, filed last February, Allen said he no longer was 
president of Potomac International Corp. as of January 1978 and 
added in parentheses "sold business." Peter Hannaford, owner ofthe 
Hannaford Corp., has said the firm acquired Potomac International 
on Jan. 18, 1981. two days befi.>re President Reagan's inauguration 
and three days before Allen received S1,000 in cash from ajapanese 
journalist who had interviewed first lady Nancy Reagan. However, 
when asked Sunday night from whom his company had bought the 
consulting ftrm, Hannaford said, "No comment.... You could ask me 
25 questions, but all you're going to get is no comment." Hannaford 
is a former aide to Reagan and a past business panner of Michael 
Deaver, one of Reagan's top three White House aides. On the White 
House disclosure statement, Allen said that he had received a 
$75,000 salary from Potomac Imernational in 1980 and had been 
president of the consulting firm from August 1972 to January 1978. 
-AP 
Cloudy and warmer today with a chance of snow in the morning. High in the upper 30s to low 40s. Partly cloudy and mild tonight. Low in the mid 30s. Partly sunny and much warmer tomorrow. High in the mid to upper 40s. -AP 


Founded November 3,1966 

The Observer is an independenr newspaper published b, rhe srudenr~ ,,f rhe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College lr does nor nnt·s~anh reflect the policies of the administration of eirher insrirurion The nem IS n·pllrted as accurately and as objectively as possible Ediwnals represent rhe oplflHln uf a majority of ta._ Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions. and lerrers are the \WW~ of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the communit\. and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. Is encouraged 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Poles give thanks for survival 
For Poland, the ultimate Thanksgiving Day would most likely be the end ofits power struggle that enters its 15th month in that country. 
While students enjoy a Thanksgiving break 


Features Editor
complete with home-prepared roast turkey, cran­berry sauce, pumpkin pie and football, people in 

Inside Tuesday 
the only Communist Bloc country to have an inde­


pendent labor union face an uncertain future. 
On the surface, Solidarity seems to be exerting enormous pressure on Party Leader Stanislaw Kania and the entire Soviet power structure. From the initial dock workers strikes in Gdansk in August of last year, major strikes of miners, prin­ters and various other working groups have succeeded in making Solidarity a prominent force in the political and economic future ofPoland. 
While one may begin to feel that the mighty force ofthe Communist Party is being defaced by this movement, the Polish economy continues to falter in unfortunate decline. Food shortages which caused long lines for staples and meat­rationing have all wor­
sened  to  a  dangerous  
level.  Increases  in  the  
price  of  the  available  


bread by 300 percent work stoppages in Es­have caused further dis­tonia, a Baltic republic gust. added to Russia in 1940. Western European Soviet oppressed 
countries are watching countries are and will be Poland's dilemma close­using Poland as a prime ly. West Germany, which example to the world as a holds a $4.5 billion por­forerunner in the stand tion of Poland's $27 bil­against Cummunist rule. lion debt to foreign Where does this leave countries, is urging a Poland? The added solution to Poland's pressures of the coming 
winter have spurned the 
problems. The

economy's collapse appeal by Lech Walesa for would mean a major set­foodstuffs to aid the 
back for West Germany's economy. 
France also is viewing Poland as a possible stage for Soviet military intervention. In August, France allotted 300,000 tons of wheat to Poland to ease tensions of food shortages. A military battle over Poland, French officials fear, would open Europe to the threat of political outbreaks that would in­terfere with continental stability. 
The paradox Poles possess is that the various strikes held in order to voice the demands of Solidarity are causing a decrease in production, ultimately adding w the already depressed state of the economy. Solidarity leader Lech W T alesa has ordered the union branches to modify and con­centrate on the economic as well as the political ramifications ofwildcat strikes. Walesa's reinstate­ment as Solidarity leader reinforces the moderate outlook the union is striving for. 



_The_Ohserxer_ 
Design Editor.....•............. Deirdn: Murphy Design Assistants ......... Birthda)· La Croix 
Tim Farrell Typesetter ........... : .............. Toni Rutherford News Editor........................ Son of•liz' Clay Copy Editors .......................... Kathy Murray 
Tim Neelv Sports Copy Editor............. Dave Dziedzi~ Typist ...................................... Jeanine Hynes 
Systems Control ............... -.. Bruce Oakley NDDayEditor................. Karen McMahon ~MC Day Editor................... , ... Cece Baliles Ad Design ................................. Fran & Mary Photographer ............................ Rudy Perez Guest Appearances .................................... L' 
Joliet jake joe Mooooo 
Today's Man 

Library 6:00-9:00 
Rangerettes 


Christmas 
Music by Da Box 

Dining Halls 5:00-6:30
Skippy Da Gardner 


is Here 
"On a freshly fallen, silent shroud of 


aFortune 12:15-1:15 •
snow ... " 
Although Poland's economy appears to be a bargaining force for the Communist Party, offi­cials in it have recognized the inescapable fact that it will need The Roman Catholic Church and Solidarity to pull the country out of its depressed state. Talks between the three factions have begun to clear up the situation economists call 'a busi­ness disaster.' Communist leaders feel the embar­rassment the Solidarity movement ha .s caused, paired with the decrepit financial state, will fade 
when  the  solutions  to  Poland's  dilemma  are  
found.  
Solidarity  has  ap­ 
parently  displayed  its  
worldly  impact  by  the  

recent call for one hour 
massive food shortages 
expected. The people are caught between a cause and nourishment. The talks between the Communist Party, the Catholic Church and Solidarity will try to provide a solu­tion to the ailing economy. They will hope to end 
the inequalities of such actions as having a farmer buying out a baker's remaining supply ofbread to feed to his hogs, due to the low price ofthe bread. 
The Polish people are in for a tough struggle. With the question ofsuch an essential as food, the Polish people have committed themselves to a fight with the Communist regime. This means that 
the likelyhood of a meal similar to the one many will sit down this Thanksgiving to consume is not too realistic. Perhaps Poland will soon be able to give thanks. 


Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief. ..... . . ............. .John McGrath 
Executive Neu•s Editor......................... Keili Flint Sports Editor .............................. \1ichad Ortman News Editor .................................. Tim Vercellotti 
Photo Editor ....... ...............................John \1acor

.Veu•s Editor ............................. David Rickabaugh S.'I1C Executive Editor........... :\iary Agnes Carey 
Editorials Editor.......................Anthony \X'alton S.'I1C .Veu•s Editor......................Cathy Domanico Features Editor ........... .............Gregory Swkrcz 

Department Managers 
Business .'11anager ......................... Rich Coppola Production .'11mwger ................... :\liehad .\tonk Contro/ler............................................ .]oe \1ultlur Circulation .Wanager ............ .Tom .\tad.ennan Advertising .'11anager ....................... Chris (h\Tll SJ•stellls .~lanager. ....... Hruc .. Oaldt·\· 
The Observer Tuesday, November 24, 1981 -page 3 

Who in '82 



Economydetermines electability 
By ED KONRADY 
can be influenced by candidates election day ofvoters, he wasn't Car" News Staff before an election, and how the ter. economy affects voters. "Carter failed to deliver a good 
Professor Edward Tufte said in a "In 1980, a lot of Democrats were economic performance, and he was speech yesterday that the economy caught in the line oftire," said Tufte. thrown out." affects the re"clection chances of an "The voters gave a referendum on idea a of conser"
The of tide incumbanr prt:sidt·nr. the performance of the incumbent, vativism sweeping the nation is 
Tufte's speech, "The Economy Jimmy Carter. The most popular wrong, according to Tufte. "If and the Elections of 1980 and reason for voting for Ronald Reagan Reagan had been elected in 1976, 1982," dealt with how the economy was, we found doing a survey on today we would be on the lecture 
circuit talking about the rising tide of liberalism. What is going around today is a tide of disappointment of the leadership of the country."
Fr. McVeigh exposes 
This tide of disappointment is strongly related to the prosperity of the voters. A graph handed out by

violence in N. Ireland 
Tufte showed that the presidents one of the major abuses of the who were successfully re"elected
ROBERT MAROVICH is News Staff British Parliament," Fr. Me Veigh 
had an election year change in real said. He explained that Nationalists 
disposable income (the money one has after taxes and expenses) of at
"The problem in Northern Ireland were being put on trial with no jury is not just the: violence," said Fr. and sometimes with a statement of least 2.9 percent. 
The Federal Reserve Board, which
Joseph McVeigh last night during a guilt prepared by someone other controls the money supply, always
lecture at the Memorial Auditorium, than the prisoner. The Parliament 
seems to favor incumbents, especial"
"the: problem is that political life refused to deal constructively with ly iflhey are Republicans, said Tufte. 
there is dt·ad." McGuire, and became a symbol of "With redistricting, Republicans
Fr. McVeigh, a diocesan priest corruption for the Northern Irish. from Ft·rmanagh, South Tyrone in On March ';, 1981, McGuire died, a 
should gain about three to five seats. Since the Republicans can arrange
Northern Ireland, spoke to an es" result of the pressures of his job, a!" timated 200 people on the political though Fr. McVeigh said that several better campaigns as they have more· money, and can get higher quality
strife confronting members of the death threats preceded his death. candidates with more experience,
Nationalist Party in all six counties Fr. McVeigh explained that the they should get another five seats. 
in Northc:rn Ireland. He explained hunger strikes that swept Northern "Now, ifthe Republicans look like
that there is still much confusion Ireland "were always used for surrounding Northern Ireland, a protest in the Irish Republic." The 
they can win control of the House result of "misreporting and mis· first hunger strike related to the cur· 
(of Representatives), the Fed will economy help
representation of tht· conflict" by rent turmoil of the area began on 'goose up' the to the media. · December 18, 1980. Bobby Sands, 
them win." Fr. McVeigh focused on the lives also elected representative of Fer" Tufte, a political science and Guest speaker Mark Green criticized of Parliament members Frank managh, South Tyrone, in Parlia­statistics professor at Yale Univer" PresidentReagan's economicpolicies in a sity, is a political analyist for theNew lecture in Hayes-Healy yesterday. (photo
'Beyond '81'

McGuire and Bobby Sands, and Uni" ment, initiated the second hunger 
York Times,Newsweek, and CBS"TV.
onist official Fr. Robert Bradford to strike after Westminster refused to by Rudy Perez) 
He has written four books, including
explain the "confusion" in Northern reform the present offenses in the 
Political Control oftbe Economy.
Ireland. prisons. Fr. McVeigh said that he 
McGuire, Fr. McVeigh c:xplained, himself talked to Nationalists who was elected representative of Fer" said that they would "rather die than mana~-:h. South Tyrone, to the British lose thdr dignity as human beings Parliament. McGuire was especially under the British Parliament." cont-erned with the welf:trc of the 
"Something is radically wrong in 






WELCOME! 
Northern Ireland; democracy is were arrested for interrogation, Catholic prisoners. many of whom 
dead. It (the area) has been ungov" beaten, disrobed, and choked. Fr. 
ernable for at least fifty years." Fr. McVeigh said that McGuire McVeigh sai~. retlectt:d the contt·mpt of the 
82000FF I 
Nationalists in South Tyrone by rare­

Any large Deep Dish Sicilian Pizza 
I
ly attending the Westminster 

Good at Cleveland Road store across 1 
debate~. 
• • • Dahm 

from University Park Mall• 277-5300. 
"Corruption ofthe legal processes 

Onecouponperpizza. Expires December 5, 19Bl~ 
continuedfrom page I 

••~ble1\..om8Jl'S••••
critical of the Catholic Church had 
no bearing on the University of 

• • • Wash 

••••••••••••••••••
Notre Dame Press. Langford said that the University has a free speac:h policy and that they will publish any 


FREE I
continuedfrompage I 
responsible, well-done work, even if 
Pitcher of Coke I
ovt·r the laundry. Mason said. . it is critical of some areas of the 
with any large Monster Pizza I
But Muller remains optimistic. Catholic Church. 
Good at Cleveland Road store across I
"I'm playing a political game in get" Rev. ·charles Dahm has a Ph.D. in 
~Noble.~.
from University Park Mall• 277-5300. I
ting to where I want to be," he said. political science from the University One coupon per p1zza. Expires Dec. 5, 1981 I 

'l(fi!»J!ItS
"You have to know when to go and of Wisconsin. He has worked in tht• 
when to stand still. I don't go up and Diocese of Chicago and is the to· lobby, but you have to know how to founder ofthe Eighth Day Center for 277-5300
•••"Noble1lom~ •••.1 
play the: game:. It's like trying to gct Justice. something from Mom and Dad." 
Muller says he understands com" plctely why financial aid got a com" putn system and he did not. And that goes for his other ideas as well. 
Nonetheless, change comes slow" ly. "It sounds so easy to !>:IY 'change it,"' he said. "And the university is no slower than any other business I've been associated with." 
Wht·ther the laundry is the Uni· versity's last or first priority, "I've got to consider the laundry the most important operation on campus," Muller said. 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) •s p~bhshed Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation penods The Observer •s published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Mary s Col· lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($t 5 per semester) by 


Ask Your Travel Agent For The Big Bus To O'Hare 
wntlng The Observer P 0 Box Q Notre Dame Indiana 46556 
O'Hare Limo Coach · 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction 
Indiana Motor Bus 
nghts are reserved Second class postage pa•d at Notre Dame Indiana 46556 

CALL 234·31 08 


-----~--~------­
The Observer Tuesday, November 24, 1981 -page 4 



Turkey Trot, an annual three-mile run. (photo by Rudy Perez) 
'Student advocates' 


Dean Rice analyzes role 
By CINDY COLDIRON 
News Staff 
Saint Mary's College Dean of Stu­dent Affairs, Kathleen Rice, feels that the most enjoyable part ofher job is "analyzing the policies and practices of Saint Mary's to see how they fit with the goals of the college." She stated that the primary goal of the college was "to educate women in the Christian tradition," and if a cer­tain goal is not in keeping with this tradition, she then helps revise or change it. 
"I view the role of us in Student 
Affairs," she continued, "as student 
advocates, but in no way does that 
mean protector because at Saint 
Mary's the idea exists that each stu­
dent is a responsible adult." 
Dean of Student Affairs since 

August 1976, Ms. Rice had a variety of work experiences before she came to Saint Mary's. She worked as a counselor in a junior college, as an associate director of admissions at Boston College and as a psychiatric social worker. She jokingly added that her previous psychiatric work experience helps her in dealing with the students here. 
When asked to define what a "Dean of Student Affairs" was, she stated that it was more than just '! Dean ofStudents who is in charge of discipline and security. "Rather, it is someone who manages a division that is concerned with the well­being ofstudent life in general." 
Part ofher job also involves listen­ing to the complaints of students, the majority ofwhich tend to center "either on regulations or the peren-
If }?ou desire financial assistance, schnlarsbip, or guaranteed job opportunities upon graduation; then you should enter. ... 
7-8 December 
As an important date on your calender! 

That is the day we are providing information and interviews in all areas of: 
AVIATION ENGINEERING PERSONNEL 'MANAGEMENT 
at Notre Dame University. Salaries !>tart from 17,200 inneasing to 28,600-45,700 in four years. 
Openings are also available 10: Materials Management Business Administration 
Nuclear Engineering 
.. 

Doctors 
Nurses Lawyers 
For more information or appointment for interview call: 317-269-6197 or l-800-382-9404 ex tension 6197 
Department of the Navy 
575 N. Pennsylvania St. 
Office, 646 (OPO) 
Indianapolis, IN. 46204 


nial parietal problem at Saint Mary's." She views her role with respect to the students very favorab­-ly, stating, "I like Saint Mary's very much because I am not dealing just with professional people all the time. I get a chance to meet more personally with the students in a smaller college like this." She added that her position also involves "working in a managerial role and working on committees" but her favorite role was "being with and helping the students of Saint 
Mary's.'' 

Mark Green speaks on 'Reaganomics' 
ByBILLKOLB 
StaffReporter 
Mark Green, former director of "Congress Watch," criticized the Reagan Administration's economic policies in a lecture in Hayes-Healy Auditorium last night. Entitled "Reaganomics Beyond '81 ," Green's lecture was the fourth in the annual Maloney Memorial Lecture Series sponsored by the Department of Economics in conjuntion with the United Steelworkers ofAmerica. 
Green said that although Reagan has gotten his economics program passed through Congress, its im­plementation will have a disastrous effect on the U.S. economy. Noting the country's recession, rising un­employment, and falling "real" wages, he asserted that Reagan's policies are "designed to faiL" 
"You really have to be a Pollyanna to say that everything's going to be O.K." he said. " When you're run­ning government, you're held up to a higher level than rhetoric. They (the Reagan Administration) ask us to do what the poet Samuel Taylor Coleridge once defined as Poetry ­'the willing suspension ofdisbelief."' 
Noting that other than France, the 
U.S. has the most skewed income distribution of the Western in­dustrialized nations, Green predicted that certain "fault lines" in Reagan's policies will widen into crippling problems. Green said that there will be among the public "a perception of cruelty, that the Oval Office soaks the poor." 
Green also said that the Reagan agenda is to the right of the public's. On issues such as ERA, civil and con­sumer's rights, the environment and nuclear power. Reagan stands 
• 

continuedfrom page I 
rates and destroyed investments for new jobs; or to hold the line on spending with a veto, but risk inter­ruption ofgovernment activities and services." 
The latest chapter in the presi­dent's budget battle with Congress followed a weekend of nearly non­stop negotiating between House and Senate conferees that ended Sunday night with congressional approval of a compromise spending bill that Reagan has vowed to veto. 
With government agencies stripped of their authority to spend money, deputy White House press secretary Larry Speakes said the president was set to tell the Cabinet to order non-essential employees to "come to work, cancel meetings, lock the safe, cut out the lights and leave." 
The confrontation also forced the president to delay his departure ­scheduled Sunday for a Thanksgiving holiday at his Califor­nia ranch. 
Reagan said Sunday that signing the compromise bill would be more harmful than vetoing it. He added, however, that necessary services such as Social Security benefit pay­ments would continue. 
"I think it would have a more harmful effect on the country if the country got the idea that we're going to continue going down the road of lavish deficit spending," he said. 
"I think the people have made it very clear that they want control of the budget, they want us to get back 
IN ACTIVE SPORTS, A NICE REMINDER OF THE LORD'S HELP 
Quality T-shirt of 50% poly./50% cotton with silk-screened lettering and sun logo. 
Lt. Blue w/Navy or Sand w/Brown. Sizes: S (34-36). M (38-40). L (42-44), XL (46-48) 
$7.00 plus $1.50shippmg. Please send check or money order to: 
DIVINE ENERGY 
P 0. Box tt.r! Oakland. CA 94603 

lli.A1HR IHEt;JJ<IN" Open 6 days a week
Just North 417 DIXIEWAY 
of across from Wen~y~ 
Campus 277~0734­personalized-Halr DesiKns 

~­
Tuesday, November 24, 1981 -page 5




Sports Brie/§ 

II\ I be I )/JS('/"l'er ami/ /.11' .~lssudat[·tl l'ress 
Sixty-three people participated yesterday in the SMC Turkey Trot, a three-mile cross country race. In the student division, Kris Locksmith won, with Mary Carol Daily finishing second and Laura Hardigan third. In the female staff division, Jill Delucia took first, Mary Connely second and joanic Imler third. Jeff Ankrom won the male: staff division, with Bob Foldesi finishing seumd and Tom Ric:d third. The winners in each division won a plaque and a 13-pound turkey. The second and third place t1nishers each took home a plaque:. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC ski team wants evc:ryone intc:rc:stc:d in having a spot on the team this year to pick up their turtlenecks from Scan Chandlc:r ( I 00 I Flannc:r, 1416) hc:tbrt· Thanksgiving hrc:ak to sdl for the: fundraising. Sweatshirts arc: now available from Barry Tharp ( I I 04 Flanner I 570 ). -The Observer 
LinebackerMarcus Marek ofOhio State has been selected Midwest Player of the Week on defense by The Associated Press for his effort in Saturday's 14-9 victory over Michigan. Marek, a 6-2, 216­pound junior from Masury, Ohio, led the Buckeye defense with 16 tackles -including I I solos and one for a loss -and intercepted a pass in the first quarter that led to a touchdown. The game marked the first time since 1967 that Michigan had failed to score a touch­down in its own stadium. -AP 
Top-rated Pittand its five closest challt:ngers held onto the top six places in The AssociatedPress college football poll yester­day, while Ohio State climbed back into the Top Twenty and Arkansas dropped out. Pitt, I 0-0, winds up the regular season against No. I I Penn State on Saturday and then meets third-ranked Georgia in the Sugar Bowl. Clemson, the only other unbeaten-untied team in the country, concluded its first perfect regular season in 33 years by defeating South Carolina 29-13. Georgia and Alabama, both idle last weekend, remained third and fourth. Nebraska, Clemson's o-range Bowl opponent, trounced Oklahoma 37-I4 and held onto fifth. The Cornhuskers were followed by Southern Methodist, which defeated Arkansas 32-I Hand captured the Southwest Cqnfcrence champion­ship. The Mustangs, ineligible for a howl game, finishc:d the season I 0-1. Michigan's 14-9 loss to Ohio State dropped the Wolverines to 16th place. Texas, which clinched a Cotton Bowl berth against Alabama hy defeating Baylor 34-I 2, moved up from eighth to seventh. Southern California's come-from-behind 22-21 victory over UCLA lifted the Trojans from I Oth to eighth, while dropping the Bruins from I 5th to I9th. Miami offlorida, a 14-6 winner over North Carolina State, cracked the Top Ten for the first time this season, jumping from IIth to ninth. The Hurricanes were followed by North Carolina, up from 12th to I Oth. Southern Mississippi slipped from 
ninth place to I 7th. The Second Ten consists ofPenn State, Washing­ton, Iowa, Brigham Young, Ohio State, Michigan, Southern Mississip­pi, Arizona State, UCLA and Washington State. Washington and Iowa will meet in the Rose Bowl. -AP 
• • • South 
continuedfrom page 8 
ponents only II I.I ground yards . per game this year. 
A Miami victory would mark only the second time in history the Hur­ricanes have won nine regular­season games ( 1950 was the only other year). Schnellenberger's crew will be attempting to win its eight' straight in the Orange Bowl. 
"Miami already has had a tremem­dous year, and I'm sure: they would likc nothing better than to cap it off by beating Notre Dame," Faust says. "On the other hand, we'vl· got to bounce back from a tough loss last weekend. I don't think this team wants to bc remembered as the Notre Damc team that finished 5-6. It's more a matter ofpride th'an any­thing at this point, and wc'll see just how much this group has." 
1 

The Miami contest will mark the t1nal appearance in an Irish uniform for Notre Dame's seniors. 
•, 
The Observer w111 accept classif1eds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m However. class•heds to appear in the next issue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to msert1on All class1heds must be prepa1d. 
e1ther 1n person or through the ma1l.



Classifieds 

~.-l_w_A_N_T_E_o_~l 
Need ride lo Cleveland lor Thanksgiving. Call John at 8450 
NEED RIDERS TO IDAHO-XMAS BREAK. 1-WAY. CALL 272-5239. 
I need a ride tot r two to Chicago on Thurs. Nov. 26 (Turkey day). Will share the usual. If you can help me out. call Tom at 877t. 
RIDE NEEDED FOR 2 TO THE DETROIT/FERNDALE AREA OVER THANKSGIVING BREAK WILL SHARE USUAL PLUS SUPPLY THE COOKIES!! I PLEASE CALL 8031 
Need nde to NORTHERN VIRGINIA for Thanksgiving. Can leave Tues. a«er­noon. Will share the usuals. Please call Jim at 1763. 
Desperately need ride 10 Rochester N~ Y. for Thanksg<ving Will share driving and expenses. Call Steve 8265 
COSMO GET A LIFE I !II 

WANTED: A copy of the record Mary's Boy Child" by Harry Belafonte. or an al­bum on whiCh the song appears. for a radiO show. I will return the record to you as soon as I finish with 11. PLEASE call Tim Neely at 1536 it you can help me out. 
I desperately need nde home for Thanksgiving to Ph1ladelph1a area or anywhere on Eastern end of the Pa. Turnp1ke Can leave anytime Weds. Call 1427. 
I need a nde to Cinc1nnall or Dayton. Last m1nute mess up. Pau!881 0 
DESPERATELY need nde to Jackson, MISS for Xmas. Gall-Mane 7815 

I__Fo_R_s_A_LE_~ 
For Sale -73 red VW Beetle, excellent condition, 1 owner 60,000 m1les, new !Ires, call234-0620 a«er 5:30PM 
Have 3 basketball t1cket pac~~Pges lor sale Lower arena. Best offer • Sell In­diVIdually or together. Call Mike or Ted at 1181. 


TICKETS 
for sale. 2 GA miami tixs call2948 
4 MIAMI G A'S--BOXES BEHIND NO BENCH. CALL MARK 3403 
Need UCLA GA's Call John 1809 
TICKETS FOR THE ROLLING 
STONES/SANTANA/IGGY POP CON­
CERT DEC. 1 AT PONTIAC SIL­
VERDOME ARE NOW ON SALE AT 
RIVER CITY RECORDS. 50970 U.S 31 
N SOME SPACES ARE STILL 
AVAILABLE ON THE SIXTH BUS FOR 
THE CHARTER BUS PACKAGE TO THE 
ROLLING STONES CONCERT. 
PACKAGE INCLUDES ROUND-TRIP 
BUS TRANSPORTATION FROM RIVER 
CITY TO PONTIAC. REFRESHMENTS 
ON BUS AND TICKET TO CONCERT. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL 277­4242. 
Must sell lower arena student B-Ball ticket at cost. Sarge 232-4257 
NAME YOUR PRICE. two STONES !IX w/R1verCityTnp. call1679 


Why not? 

THE ZAHM COFFEEHOUSE IS OPEN EVERY THURS. FOR YOUR EXISTEN­TIAL PLEASURE. OFFERING THE FINEST IN LIVE ENTERTAINMENT, COFFEE, TEA, HOMEMADE DONUTS, FREE POPCORN AND PAT GALLAG­HER. COME DOWN AND SEE IF OUR PROFESSIONAL CONVER­SATIONALISTS ARE PAID ENOUGH. 9-12 EVERY THURS. NIGHT, ZAHM BASEMENT. 
SHOW YOUR LADY YOU CARE BEFORE THE CHRISTMAS BREAK WITH A MONTH OF FLOWERS. A BOU­QUET OF FLOWERS EVERY WEDS FOR 4 WEEKS~ .. DELIVERED!!! WED­NESDAYS FLOWERS 289~1211 
On Thanksgiving Day. Darby's Place presents MY FAIR LADY in the basement of Lafortune Student Center. T1mes are 
11:00 AM and 8:00P.M. AdmiSSion and snacks are FREEl!! 
TO ROME WITH LOVE HELLO THERE RAN M,M,M,S.T,E.etc 
Expenenced typ1st --reasonable Mrs. Bedford 288-2107 Hours: 8 A.M. to 5 P M. 
TYPING DONE ON CAMPUS BY PROFESSIONAL SECRETARY. LOW RATES, QUICK SERVICE. CALL X­1315. 
Yes folks, tt's time to ftre up the death star agatn. 
TIMMY DON'T GO! 
Are you one of the lucky" ones who will be here over Thanksg1v1ng break? Then start it off right w1th the Top 40 Time Tun­nel on WSND-FM 88.9 Weds n1glll a«er 'm•dmght. The top 40 songs of a not-yet­determmed year wtll be counted down by 
Tim Neely A presentatiOn of Nocturne 
N1ghtflight. 
To my tavonte alto, from your tavortte bass(?)-Have a nice break. TCN 
NIGHTSOUNDS 105 FM 10:30 P M 
Three cheers for the world's greatest bar­tenders, PATTY and LISA! Thanks lots. we owe you onel (sorry about the blen­der) 
Thanks to all our great fnends who made our birthdays so spec1al-you re the best! Love Peggy and Suzanne 
Lyndy and Helen. thanks for your lhoughtlufness. Sis & Szan 
L1sten Mon,ca-?1$(!, 1 could g1ve you a reason to desp1se me... 
WHO KNOWS? SHE KNOWS!! 
Rob and Paul You're supposed to run out of gas AFTER the mov1e not before, but we apprecoated the thought! Had a greatt1me Sat. Let's do 
it aga1n soon. Kathy & Amy 
P~S. The Fuzzy Duck helped us thaw! 
laura Lee, 
Thanks. 
Greg, 
You're welcome. Any time. 
Dear Moo. 
Have a great 22nd birthday! You're not genmg older you're genmg bener! 
Love, Demse 
Dear S1s, Happy 19th Birthday! France awaits! Go for 11! Aloha, Lyndy P.S. I'll m1ss you. though 
Happy belated 20th Birthday Chnstopher Ryan~ You're such a spec1al person. you deserve the bestf Hope you enjoyed" your day! 
Taylor Ashley 
John, Is it true that the only hme you move 1n bed IS when you are 1n a deep sleep??? 
NEED IDEAS FOF. FAMILY XMAS 
PRESENT? G1ve them an up to date portrait of youl Will brmg portable studiO to your dorm/apt & g1ve group rate 1f 5 or more students schedule at same t1mo Call Carol Hartman 256 5352 (If no answer call after6 P.M. 

An Anestment to the World. The Restless Shade IS a highly In­telligent. smart person! 
The Restless Shade of Moose Control IS near Ican hear the footsteps 
IDNII'IO::I Sl Y:>S 
IDNIWO:> Sl Y::IS 
IDNII'IO::I Sl Y:>S 
On Thanksg1v1ng Day. Darby's Place presents MY FAIR LADY 1n the basement of Lafortune Student Center T1mes are 
11 :00 AM and 8:00 PM. AdmiSSion and snacks are FREE Iff 
Dear Mary, 
Happy birthday to a real turkey! Thank you for the late n1ght popcorn part1es and talks-rt's like havmg a real Sister! Have a great one! 
Love, Kathleen 
Happy Thank~lvlng All-The Syatem 
Take the long way home 
DON'T PANIC 

Just when you thought rt was safe to 
traverse the Debelian Sector. MooMJokeall Special Edition 
0: What'" the favonte band 1n the Yukon? 

A: The Boston Peeps Orcheslra, of course. And the Restless Shade of Moose Control IS rollin' roughshod over the galaxy ­through w1nd and ra1n and weather H1, Shirley 
1 
2 3 4 5 6 
L___N_o_T_Ic_Es_ ___.l 
USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED . SAT, SUN 9-7. CASPERSON, 1303 BUCHANAN AD . NILES 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO TYPING CALL287-5162 


LOST/FOUND 
I found a camera Wednesday near the ACC. If you think rt 1s yours, call Dave ( 1927) and g1ve your inillals~ 
LOST A 58·C Texas Instrument Cal­culator about a week ago maybe 1n the Cell B10logy Class. If found. please call 6737 or return to 143 Farley Hall. 
LOST: LADIES' BROWN DEERSKIN GLOVES WITH RABBIT FUR LINING-­OLD AND MENDED--REWARD--288­
9322 
I LOST MY RADIO SHACK EC-4004 CALCULATOR IF YOU FOUND IT. PLEASE CALL 289-2119. 
LOST: NO CLASS RING. OUTSIDE SENIOR BAR FRIDAY NIGHT NAME INSIDE IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL PHIL PERKINS AT 8338. 
Lost. Set at"'" keys on Gem1n1 key chain somewhere between ad bldg. and main cncle Sat. mght If found, reply 1n this 
column Reward~ 


FOR RENT 
FOR NEXT SEMESTER HOUSE AND APARTMENTS 234-2626 


TO ••• 
O'HARE-MIDWAY 



SPECIAL 

6 
TRIPS DAILY 
Ask Your Travel Agent For The Big Bus To O'Hare 

Or Call 234-3108 
. Indiana Motor Bu$ 

219/234-3712 
• 
1l 

manual-transmission car. 
~ continue to use your skill in your local unit ~ 
~ during each monthly meeting plus during two weeks ~ manual-transmission subcompact car. If you are 18orolder, have a student I.D. 
Just $79 will put you on the road for five full days with unlimited mileage in a 
~ of Annual Training. Of course, you'll be paid for ~ 
~ all your Reserve Duty. ~
and a valid driver's license, that's all you need. Tell us what size car you would like, 
~ For college students, the Army Reserve is a ~
and we'll have it ready for you starting November 20. 
~ good way to earn extra income while you get ~
Rates are not discountable. Gasoline, applicable taxes, optional Collision 
Damage Waiver and Personal Accident Insurance are not included. No 
~ practical on-the-job experience. . ; 
charge for mileage. All cars subject to availability. Cars must be returned to the renting location no later than November 30, 1981 or higher published 
~ CALL ARMY RESERVE OPPOR-~ 
Hertz Daily Standard Unlimited Mileage Rates will apply to the entire rental penod, and a dropcharge will also apply. Ask for complete details. 
® 
~ TUNITIES SFC Hamilton 234-4187~
#1 furEver)me. 
ilt An EQual Opportunity Employer ~ 
L~rger cars ~vailable at higher rates. HERTZ RENTS FORDS AND OTHER FINE CARS 
~a,.,,,,.............., ....................................... 
,..

......................................................................... ~ Men-Women ~ 
! JOIN THE ARMY RESERVE !
i WITHOUT INTERRUPTING i ~ COLLEGE 
I 
~ When you join the Army Reserve under the Split ~ ~ Training Option you can take your Basic Training ~ 
UNLIMITED 
~ and Advanced Individual Training during two ~ 
MILEAGE 
! !
consecutive summers. You get full pay for your ~ training, so it's like having a summer job. ~
Only$159 
~ Between your summers of training, you serve ~
for 10days. 
~ with your local Army Reserve unit. It takes just ~ 
$15.99 per day. 
~ 16 hours a month, usually a weekend. You earn an ~ ~ income while you learn and use a skill. ~ 
Subcompact 
~ After your Advanced Individual Training you ~ 

-~----~-----------~ 
The Observer -Sports Tuesday, November 24, 1981-page 6 

_Newest Yankee 




Griffey blasts former team 
DAYTON, Ohio (AP)-Ken Grif­the order, so I did it. They asked me it; I've had it. I'll go out and have a fey, a .300 lifetime National League to bat second in the order, and I did good year, play to win. I won't worry hitter recently acquired by the New that. about anything, though, because the York Yankees, says he reached the "I played right field, then they Reds gave me the impression they breaking point with the Cincinnati asked me to move to center for this didn't care aout me." Reds when the club gave in to season, and I did it. I did everything Griffey was a seven-year regular Johnny Bench's demand to catch on­they asked me to do, without com­with the Reds who grew up in their ly twice a week. plaint. farm organization. He ended his 
"I couldn't believe the club would "But, when they wouldn't give me career in Cincinnati by batting .311 give it's approval to something like a multi-year contract with guaran­and playing in I 0 1 of the clubs' I08 that," Griffey told the Dayton Daily tees before this season, I said, 'That's . games. News. "One guy was running the team, and t)le front office couldn't deal with it. 
"That's when I decided the Cin­
Basketball , volleyball
cinnati club was not for me. It was the big turning point. He said that, and they did nothing; they should 

tournaments near end 
have handled that better." 
There were other considerations; Griffey had sought a multi-year, guaranteed contract for about $1 Jim million a year, and the All-Star out­
Sports Writer

fielder was disenchanted with having to prove himself repeatedly 
Inside ND Interhall
with the Reds. 

"I don't feel the Reds really cared about me ... and that hurt," Griffey CO-REC BASKETBALL -PLO beat the F&F Express last week to said, who tried to negotiate a long­qualify for the title game. Their opponent will be decided in next term contract in 1980 when he week's game between the Five Back Door Men and Their 20th Cen­came back from knee surgery. tury Foxes, and the winner of last night's match between the Lust 
"I played three or four games ear­Bombs and the F&F Express. ly that spring, proving my knee was CO-REC VOLLEYBALL-S Cubed takes on the Arkies tonight to strong enough to play on, but they decide the winners' bracket representative, as the tournament 
didn't believe me. They wouldn't winds to a close. give me a long-term, guaranteed RACQUETBALL -In the men's division, Jim Croke will play Ken contract." Roos for the championship. 
"Then, I'd read in the paper every Martha Gallagher will be matched with the winner of the game day about another team I might be between Missy Sorapure and Pam Gorski to determine the champion traded to. A couple of times when I ofthe women's division.
Senior co-captain Bob Crable ( 43), 
came into the clubhouse, somebody HANDBALL -Kevin Schmidt downed Kelly Clark, 2I-I5, 21-I8,
shown here against Michigan, will 
had packed my bags for me." to capture the handball tournament championship.
play in his final game for the Irish this 
Griffey agreed to a one-year con­NOTICES -All dub and grad. basketball captains should pick up
Friday in Miami. Crable, one ofthe 12 
tract extension that spring, but again schedule and rule sheets this week.
semifinalists for the Lombardi Award,




Crable! 
was refused a guaranteed contract All interhall athletes participating in this winter's events should
given annually to the nation's top 
that he sought to negotiate this year. supply proofofinsurance before play begins. 
lineman, has led the Irish in tackles31 
"I always did what the Reds asked Any interhall football player who has not returned his equipment
times in the 33 games that be bas 
me to do, without complaint" he will be able to do so next week. The exact time will be announced in
started. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
said. "They asked me to hit third in The Observer. 



Every half hour from 6 am-9 pm, Transpo leaves campus (either from the ND Library or SMC Holy Cross Hall) bound for the Michiana Regional Airport. 
GO TRANSPO ACROSS CAMPUS


For info call233-2131 
ACROSS TOWN
Info Center Hours: Monday-Friday 8a.m.-5p.m. 
Hours: Mooday-_Friday ~a.m. -10 o. m. Satu~day 6a.m.-6p.m. 

~~====================================== 

'I'~di:JL~===============================T=uTe=s=d=ay=,=N=o=v=e=m=b=e=r=2=4=,=1=9=8~l~==p=ag=e~7 


BUT WHAT DOES THE STUDENT UNION RECORD STORE HAVE FOR ME?, 
CHEAPER PRICES PRICES·--Save 24-32% off list prices! MOST CURRENT SINGLES-S6.50 (compare at S8.99 list). Cut-outs... S2.98 to S5.98 
CONVENIENCE...The NDSU Record Store is located on the Main floor of LaFortune and is open 10-4 PLUS-ordered albums take 1 week only! 
GREAT SELECTION... Springsteen, Fogelberg, Moody Blues, Stevie Nicks, Cristopher Cross, Pat Benatar, journey, and many more. 
ALSO ... recorded and blank tapes available. 
SO.. .for CHEAPER PRICES, MORE CONVENIENCE, and a GREAT SELECTION stop by the S.U. Record Store today'!! 
Ckeek eut flee 


OAKROOM CAFE 
t.t Sea& 'OQciq HaU'& 'PCUJ Cole 
For a late nite snack 
Nightly Specials 
Complete with a new jukebox 
Fri.-Sat. 9-·2 am 
~= Michael Molinelli 



Doonesbury 



IU 8t CAN[)I[) WfTH YOU, WANe. UIITH MY L!!JtRAL m§T {Jf5Cf?BJITE1), I'M /./)(J'{/f-.16 fOR A WHO/£ NW %· 7l3M {}= PO/.tnCAJ. VAL/Jf.S. I lXJN'T N#lJ SP!CIRC5 WT, 8IfTI f)() fEE.[) 


Simon 



ACROSS 25 Steps 1 Mexican 28 Employ money 30 Amo, -...

The Daily Crossword 

5 Division 33 "-was of a calyx going to ..." 10 At that 34 Along 
time time­14 Over 35 Japanese 15 Mayor: Fr. religion 16 Roll call 37 Direction 
word from a 17 Feeler native 18 Build 41 Sale 19 Freedom 42 White­
from con· and tails straint 43 Auxiliary 

20 Distance verb from a 44 Dry ravine native 45 Small one 
23 Knight's r:o Symplrtt'r.'Nr epithet "" 48 Capri, e.g. 24 --tasse 50 Set 

Monday·~.Solution 
'"'­

©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc 11/24/81 All Rights Reserved 
11124181 
Garry Trudeau 

Wlili, I'M NOT 5/.1?£-WHATtVE:R. 
YfT, IQI/L:!CR. HOW 
MUOf //RI3 YWWILL-1~ TAK£5 lNG 70 SPENO" I'M NOT
\ . AFRAIOOF 

~ {)fflC!!Z 
Jeb Cashin 

51 Direction 22 Creighton from a U. site native 25 Annie 
59 Pedestal Oakley part 26 In­
60 Outdated (agitated) 
61 Cereal 27 About 
covering 28 Exclamation 62 State of disgust 
8:30p.m.

63 Ancient 29 -voce Asia Minor 31 Sadat district 32 Gawp 
9:00p.m.

64 Fresh 34 Mellow produce 35 Haggard packer novel 
65 litter 36-and 66 Curl terminer 67 Musical 38 CPAs 

passage 39 Stew or terrier DvWN .. _ 
40 Small bird 

1 Father 
45 Fear 2 Greenla .. 0 
46 Prompt

settlemer,, 
47 Age or bomb 3 One-man · 
49 "So-be" stint 50 Supplica·4 Resist­
tions 51 Enos'

~-­
6 Merit grandpa 7 Variegated· 52 Church part 8 Avenue of 53 Pindaric trees 
poems 

9 Rivero! . 54 Not yours forgetful­55"-an ness ancient 
10 The sky's ,.. mariner" 11 Make better 56 Puerto­12 Gaelic 57 Pung 13--do-well 58 Soup 21 Poet's word vegetable 



Campus 
Tuesday, November 24 
•4:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Submerged Plants, Detritivory and Lake Ecosystem Succession", Professor Stephan Carpenter, Notre Dame, Galvin Ayditorium, Sponsored by Biology Department, All are welcome 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Current Research in Political Economy", Edward R. Tufte, Yale University, 122 Hayes Healy, Sponsored by Economics Depart· ment, All are welcome 


.. 
Wednesday, Nov. 25 
•1 p.m. -Lecture, "Data Graphics: The Visual Dis­play ofQuantitative Information", Edward R. Tufte, Yale Universiy, 122 Hayes Healy, Sponsored by Economics Department, All are welcome 
Friday, Nov. 27 
• 
3 p.m. -Football, ND vs. Miami (Fla.), away •7 · 10 p.m. -Film, "Love Can Forgive and For• get", Memorial Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Chinese Association 

•7:30 
p.m. -Hockey, ND vs. Ferris State, ACC Saturday, Nov. 28 

•1 
:30 p.m.-Bat sketball, ND vs. St. Joseph's, ACC 


Sunday, Nov. 29 
•s a.m. · 5 p.m. -Dog Show, Michiana Kennel Club,ACC 

Television 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 


Tonight 
16  MASI-I  
22  CBS News  
28  Joker's Wild  
34  MacNeil/Lehrer Report  
46  It's Your Business  
16  All in the Family  
22  Family Feud  
28  Tic Tac Dough  
34  Straight Talk  
46  God's News Bt·hind the News  
16  Daffy Duck Thank~ For Giving Special  
22  Simon and Simon  
28  Happy Days  
34  Cosmos  
46  Lester Sumrall Tcaching  
16  Beren.tem Bear Meets Uig Paw  
28  Lavernt· and Shirley  
46  The Lahaycs On Family Lik  
16  Father Murphy  
28  Three's Company  
34  Odyssey  
46  Today with Lester Sumrall  

--~-------~------~~ -----~-­
Tuesday, November 24, 1981-page 8 


Irish head south for seniors' last game 
Gerry Faust's bid for a winning per contest through the air, season in his first year as head coach compared to only 116.8 per game at Notre Dame will have the eyes ofa on the ground. But this week Kelly national television audience upon it will have to do it aginst an Irish
... 
Friday as the Irish close out the 1981 secondary that has held four of its campaign against a streaking Miami last five opponents to less that 100 team. yards in the air. 
Howard Schnellenberger's Miami "Kelly is obviously a great talent," team now boasts a five-game win­says Faust. "You know he's going to ning streak to go with an 8-2 overall challenge you, and you just have to 
record following the Hurricanes' 14-prepare for it as best you can. Plus, 
7 triumph Saturday at North he's got seven or eight receivers 
Carolina State. Miami's only losses who have caught ten or more passes, 
have been to Cotton Bowl qualifier so it's not a situation where you can Texas and Hall of Fame Bowl invitee afford to concentrate on one or two Mississippi State. receivers." 
The Irish will be looking for their Senior flanker Larry Brodsky is 12th straight series win over the Kelly's favorite target with his 33 Hurricanes in their first visit to the receptions for 562 yards. He needs Orange Bowl siqce a 48-l0 win in only two more catches to become the 1977 championship season. Miami's career leader in that depart­
"No football team likes to end its ment. who are third in the CCHA this season, invade the season on a losing note, and I'm sure Top rushers include senior ... ACC for games Friday and Saturday nights. that will be on the minds of both halfback Smokey Roan ( 1 13 at­
(Photo by Linda Shanahan) teams this week," says Faust. "We tempts for 344 yards), senior ful­need a victory to finish above the lback Chris Hobbs (68 for 235) and .500 mark, and that's obviously a sophomore fullback Speedy Neal very important goal for us right now. ( 53 for 196).
Weekend hockey 
Our memories ofthe season will be a Yet another weapon is senior lot brighter ifwe pull this one out." placekicker Dan Miller, who has Miami junior quarterbackJim Kel­booted I 5 of 24 field goal attempts

Bulldogs present big test for Irish 
ly. figures to provide a stern test for this season. He kicked a 55-yarder at 
an Irish pass defense that ranks the gun to beat Florida in the Miami By MICHAEL OLENIK show that the Irish nets will be off· among the best in the nation with its season opener, and later knockked Sports Writer and junior center Paul Cook. Both limits to Bulldog attackers. average of only 112.0 passing yards through a 57-yarder against Florida 
are off to the kind of start that led The 4-5-l Irish have a difficult task per contest for its opponents. Seven State. 
Fresh from their first league Ferris State to a 13-9-0 record and ahead of them, and Smith will let no of Notre Dame's foes have been held Miami's defense is led by a veteran sweep of the season, Notre Dame's third place finis~ in the CCHA last one think otherwise. "We'll have to to less than I l 5 yards through the front line of seniors Tim Flanagan. hockey team will skate off year. continue to play well if we hope to air -and over the last flve games Bob Nelson, and Lester Williams, Thanksgiving dinner against Ferris Five lettermen return to anchor be successful against Ferris State -the Irish have given up an average of along with junior middk guard State this weekend in a series that the Bulldog defensive corps. includ­there's just no question about that. 78.8 passing yards per game. Tony Chickillo. Linebackers Scott can determine if the Irish will ing sophomore Jim File, an ali-CCHA Winning two at.home last weekend But Kelly, a junior from East Nicolas ( I 18 tackles) and Greg indeed challenge for htgher heights defenseman last season. Joe Bulchy should give us some momentum; Brady, Penn., who threw for 220 Brown (88) are the top Hurricane 
-in the CCHA standings. and Leo Brideau team with File to now it's up to us to take advantage of yards and a pair of scores in the 32-tacklers. Senior free safety Fred 
The Bulldogs stand third in the provide the expertise and ex­it." 14 Miami loss here a year ago, al­Marion stands among the nation's league, just one game behind North­perience that has led to the success­Ferris State will put its 6-3-I ready has topped the 200-yard mark leaders in interceptions with six. ern Michigan and Michigan State, ful performance of Ferris State's record on the line Friday and Satur­in aerie! yards seven times this fall. That unit has proved especially two teams that have handled the freshman goaltending duo of Rob day nights beginning at 7:30 at the Overall he has completed 152 of his tough against the rush, allowing op-Irish already this season. Coach Rick Hughston and Steve Falcone. The ACC, so all those stranded for break 261 attempts for 2, 139 yards and 11 Duffer saw his team split last two have allowed only 34 goals in I 0 can find some weekend action with­scores. See SOUTH, page 8 weekend with Miami, Ohio, and games thus far, a clear indication out paying a big price. Miami is averaging 246.1 yards hopes that it will rebound with a that the Irish offense will be severely strong series on Notre Dame's home challenged. ice. The Irish will once again be led by 
Such a hope would not appear to their senior line ofBill Rothstein, Jeff be unrealistic, at least before this Perry and co-captain Dave Poulin, past weekend's series with Ohio who erupted against Ohio State by 


What about the Toilet Bo'Wl? 
State, as the Irish had reaped little of adding four points apiece to their home ice advantage until the sweep team-leading scoring totals. of the Buckeyes. With four wins out The effect of the line's play'on the 
Well, it's bowl time again. Bids were extended thisof seven home outings this season, rest of the team is what excites weekend for the Bottom Ten's bountiful bevy of bowlhowever, it seems as if the Irish are Coach Lefty Smith most. "To say games.
finally asserting themselves at home we've been pleased with our seniors 
Here,......_ .~us year's holiday clas'i.;..S.:.'i· 
.,.. as well as they do on the road, where would be an understatement," offers they are currently playing .500 Smith. "They've been playing super 
'I he Pete Rose Bowl -Nc.rthwestern (O-Il), 
The Bot~om Ten

hockey. hockey for us this year. Not only 'ould've gone for the classic 1.Io.'.chup with No. 2The major test for the Irish will lie that, but they have been providing i:olorado State, but the nation's ,.,-cirst team will opt for in their ability to stifle a well­excellent team leadership. It's no t~bucks instead, takin_g on California ( 2-9). The game bowls. The loser will be chosen by determining the balanced Bulldog attack that returns secret that you win with seniors, and 
is, ~lru;6--afier the trophy, donated by a Cin­team with the highest cumulative G.P.A. 
three of their five top scorers from 'l right now they are making us go." 
Cirmati barber: the actual bowl used when he cut Pete's The Olympia Gold Bowl -Though it was played year ago. The two players that will Dave Laurion improved his g.a.a. 
.hair during his years with the Reds. last weekend, this epic battle, named after a beer truly
draw the most attention from Nutre to 3.69 with last week's two wins 
The Lemon Bowl -Trini Lopez will sing the na­worthy ofbeing associated with the Bottom Ten, pittedDame's blueline corps will be three-over the Buckeyes, and is set to 
tional anthem before this game, in which Georgia Tech Oregon against Oregon State. The Beavers pulled it out, ( 1-9) will meet cross-state rival Memphis State ( 1-l0 ). losing 17-47. Said one Duck fan: "It's the water." ,This game will surely sour viewers. The Polyester Bowl -The University of TEP By the way, here are this week's rankings:

Former BCplayers 
Miners ( 1-9) don't have to go far for this one. The Fort Worth classic will also feature powerhouse Eastern 1) Northwestem (0-11) ~ichigan (O-Il). It's the first bowl appearance for the 2) Colorado State (0-11)

convicted inNY 
Hurons since their trip to the Naugahyde Bowl in the 3) Eastem Michigan (0-10) 
early 60's. 4) Memphis State (1-10)
• NEW YORK (AP) -Former Bos­ofBraddo t ck Hills, Pa.; Paul Mazzei of The Cyclamate Bowl -From out of the East come 5) UTEP (1-9) ton College basketball player Rick Pittsburgh and James Burke, of the challengers. Penn's Quakers ( 1-8) are determined 6) Oregon State (1-10) Kuhn and four others were con­Queens. to snap Colorado State's (0-l I) losing streak. By the 7) Georgia Tech (1-9) victed yesterday offixing BC games As the verdicts were read in U.S. time this one rolls around, the Rams will most likely 8) Penn (1-8) in the 1978-79 season to profit their District Court in Brooklyn, relatives have set an NCAA record for losses in a season with 12. 9) Texas Tech (1-9) betting syndicate. of the defendants cried quietly or The Siesta Bowl-Kansas State (2-9) is in Manhat­10) Chicago "24 net yards" Bears (3-9) 
The government said the five had put their hands to their faces. Kuhn's tan. Columbia is on Manhattan. The two will face off in conspired to manipulate the scores father, Frederick, said later he would the sleeper bowl of the season, with the winners Also receiving votes: of Boston College games so mem­have no comment. walking away with S24 worth ofbeads. bers of the group could beat the Assistant U.S. attorney Edward The Garden State Parkway Bowl -Like its sister Columbia (1-9) 
bookmakers' point spreads in bet­McDonald, himself a former basket­bowl, Liberty, this game will write a new chapter in Kansas State (2-9) 
ting. ball player for BC in his freshman NewJersey football history. While the Liberty Bowl was Baltimore Colts (1-11) 
They were convicted of con­year, said the verdicts were once played indoors in Atlantic City, this game, featur­'Magic'Johnson (1-0) spiracy to commit racketeering and "satisfactory to the government." ing Virginia ( 1-9) and Texas Tech ( 1-9-1) will be played sport bribery and using interstate Defense lawyers all said they on a median strip. Quote of the Week: facilities in furtherance of a crime would appeal the verdict, which The Kahoutek Bowl -They had such potential. Chicago Bear Head Coach Neil Armstrong, after his were Kuhn, 26, of Swissvale, Pa.; came after three days of delibera­But they fizzled before their time. Notre Dame (5-5) team managed only 24 net yards against the Detroit brothers Anthony and Rocco Perla, tions in the fifth week ofthe trial. will face St:mford ( 4-7) in one of the lesser-known Lions in a 23-7 loss: "At least it's a record." 



_j 







