
VOL. XV, NO. l 00 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
People on the move 
Collins stresses action 
By DAVID RICKABAUGH 
StaffReporter 
Marva Collins, creator of Chicago's Westside Preparatory School -a sdwol which enrolls children that were considered problem students in other schools -held a lecture last night in the Library Auditorium discrib­ing "people on the move." 
Mrs. Collins stated that people on the move find meaning in life and view success as a lifetime pursuit. 
The Chicago educator said, "the action ofone man is greater than the ideas ofone thousand. Each individual must toil each day like it was their last day on earth. These beliefs combined with a goal, makes the difficult not impos­sible." 
People on the move, according to Mrs. Collins, "must be universal rather than local individuals. The wide base of knowledge will enable them to create future culture and mold the destiny of the future." 
A question and answer session followed the lecture. Mrs. Collins addressed inquiries from the overflow crowd which centered on the aspects of her school. 
The private school, according to Mrs. Collins, focuses on a personal ap­proach to teaching. "We regard the students as individuals, children arc not nuts and bolts, each arc different. "Teachers become actors and actresses, and in the evening they practice for the next show. They fail to actually teach," she said. 
Mrs. Collins explained how she handles problem students, "I simply tell them, we're not going to suspend you, we're not calling your mother, you are either going to learn or die." According to Mrs. Collins, the teachers 
never resort to physical violence. 
While responding to a question dealing with criticism of her program, Mrs. Collins commented, "if you get by '60 Minutes' you should be able to walk into heaven without any problems." 
The life of Marva Collins since her decision to form a school for children who were labeled intellectually disabled, retarded, or slow to learn, is the subject of a television movie "Welcome to Success: The Marva Collins Story." Cicely Tyson, who spoke at Notre Dame last week for the Black Cul­tural Arts Festival, will portray the educator in the film. 
The lecture was one of the events sponsored by the Black Cultural Ans (iestlval which is celebrating the achievements and talents of Black Americans from Feb. 8 to Mar<:h 7 with various events and programs. 

Inflation slows to 9.1 percentrate 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Inflation slowt·d to a 9. I percent rate in .January, the lowest level since last summer, ao; rare declines in food and house prices helped offset new bursts in energy costs, the govern­ment reported yesterday. 
The most unusual development wa~ a 0.4 percent drop in house prices. the first decline in five years and the largest since 1956. 
However, the Reagan administra­tion, in its latest pitch forage of the president's economic program, said a respite from double-digit inflation 
'We're still in a dangerous double­digit inflation environment.' 
would be short-llvtd and consumers can expect steep~r price increases In the months ahead -even for food and housing. 
President Reagan's budget direc­tor, David A. Stockman, said the report "indicates that we're still in a dangerous douhk-digit inflation en­vironment in this country" and un­derscores the need for the "deep budget cuts" the administration is proposing. 
Murray Wcidenbaum, chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisors, said January's figures, "athough welcome, provide little basis for optimism with regard to tht· undt·rlying rate of inflation." 
Meanwhile, the federal reserve moved yesterday to clamp down fur­ther on this nation's money supply, and its chairman warned the Congress would only worsen infla­tion if It whittles away at Reagan's proposed budget cuts. 
Reserve oard chairman Paul Volckcr also cclared that unless in­
tlation  abate  the  central  bank's  
money  polk  will  mean  further  
pressure on th.  economy's a bility to  
expand.  

Part of Reagan's economic program calls for the steps an­nounced yesterday by Volcker, who endorsed the president's proposals. 
The encouraging news for shop­pers in January was that food prices at grocery stores fell 0.4 percent, the first decline in II months, while clothing costs declined 0.2 percent. 
Gasoline prices, however, jumped 
3.8 percent and fuel oil prices were up 7.5 percent last month. 
All sources of energy accounted for one-third of last month's total rise in consumer prices, and further steep increa'ies for energy are due in February as a result of President Reagan's decision on Jan. 28 to lift remaining price controls on domes­tic oil. 
Overall, consumer prices rose 0. 7 percent in January, the smallest in­crease since last July and a noticeable slowdown from the 1 percent increases during each ofthe prior four months. 
As a result of moderating prices, workers' inflation-adjusted weekly earnings rose 0.7 percent in January, the largest monthly increase in four years. But the gain wa'i more than of­fset by a sharp jump in Social Security taxes. Consequently, Reagan last week urged Congress 
workers' buying power declined 0.1 to cut $41.4 billion from the 1982 percent for the month and was budget and pass a three-year, 30 per­down 4 percent sinceJanuary 1980, cent tax cut to bring inflation down the Labor Department said. and revitalze the economy. 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1981 
Borchers, Canino 
. . 

campatgn 
By LOUIS BREAUX 
StaffReporter 
The main goal of Patrick Borchers 
and Rosemary Canlno, if elected stu­
dent body president and vice presi­
dent, will be to close the 
communication gap between stu­
dent government and the student 
body. 
"We can not work effectively with 
the Administration unless we ap­
proach them with the backing ofthe 
whole student body," stressed Bor­
chers. Both candidates will work to 
improve the communication lines 
between student government and 
the student body to achieve the 
necessary unity. 
"We feel that existing student 
apathy has been caused by a confus­
ing student government system. We 
want the students to know that the 
Student Senate is the body for them 
to voice their opinions and Ideas. 
Also, to increase student input we 
intend to bring the student govern­
ment to the student." 
Pat Borchers is a member of the 
Student Senate and feels this gives 
him an insight into the workings of 
the Senate. "I see the limitations of 
the senate and its potentials." 
Rosemary Canino is the president of 
Badin Hall. 
The need for greater security has been a concern of both candidates for some time. Borchers was in­strumental in creating the student escon service and hal! had the responsibility of coordinating and running it. Their platform calls for establishing the escort service as a permanent program. They plan to push for increased awareness of dorm crime and fire safety and the creation of an engraver loan service for students to mark their valuables. 
See SBP, page 5 
Deal in Panama 

Former aide accuses]ordan 
By CHARLES). HANLEY 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK -The former chief aide to the exiled shah of Iran says Hamilton Jordan, chief of staff in the Carter White House, double-crossed the deposed ruler by "making a deal to have the shah arrested in Panama" in an attempt to .win freedom for the American hostages. 
In an inter­
THURSDAY·.·-·.·.·.-.-.......··;·:d.
view looking .-.·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·lo:·»:· back over the 
====================·r=ocu·s · 
events of the 
.r -­
hostage crisis, Roben Armao used harsh language to describe U.S. actions during the late Mohammad Reza Pahlavi's three-month stay in Panama. 
The former Pahlavi aide was particularly bitter toward Jordan, who arranged the haven in Panama. Ar­mao said he knew all along that the former presidential assistan "could not be trusted." 
He characterized the shah in the last months ofhis life as a man worried that his family would be scarred and branded by the hostage crisis, vulnerable to Panamanian extortionists and driven into a dangerous legal corner by U.S. officials playing on his imperial pride. 
Armao, 32, a New York public relations consultant associate with the Rockefeller family, began working for the shah in late 1978. When the shah fled Iran in January 1979, Armao joined former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger and banker David Rockefeller in fin­ding refuge for Pahlavi In the Bahamas. He later managed day-to-day affairs for the exiled royal family at their temporary homes in Mexico, the United States, Panama and Egypt, where Pahlavi died last July. 
The ex-shah's stay in New York for gallbladder sur­gery led to the seizure ofthe U.S. Embassy and hostages in Tehran on Nov. 4, 1979. Six weeks later, Pahlavi left the United States for a resort island off the coast of 

Panama -Armao said Jordan and White House counsel Lloyd Cutler assured the cancer-stricken Pahlavl that "Panama had no diplomatic relations (with Iran), no extradition. He would be safe, comfortable, and they would provide for his medical care," meaning he would have access to American hospitals. But, Armao said, it eventually became clear to him thatJordan later "made a deal to have the shah arrested in Panama." Jordan refused comment Wednesday on Armao's latest assertions, but he has answered previousclaims of a U.S. "deal" to have the cx-.shah arrested by saying the matter was out of U.S. hands because Panamanian law requires the detention of anyone accused of crimes In extradition proceedings. While the shah was in the United States, Iran demanded his return in exchange for the American hostages, hoping to try him for alleged mass murder and corruption. With Pahlavi in Panama, the revolutionary regime of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini began coun proceedings to have him cxtcadited. 



! 

News Brieb 
Thursday, February 26, 1981 -page 2 

c:==~========~================================== 
by The Obierver and The AJJociated PreJJ 

The disappearances of two more black boys prompted police searches in Atlanta neighborhoods yesterday, as prospects dimmed for a huge federal cash outlay to bolster the special inquiry into the cases of 20 dead and missing black children. Public Safety ~om missioner Lee Brown said the cases of the two black boys w.h? ~tsappeared Tuesday were being handled by the missing persons dtvtston and had not been turned over to the special unit set up in the other cases. About I,700 people are reported missing in Atlanta each year•. Brow~ said, and 80 percent are found in 24 hours. Reports of misstng chtldrcn -even habitual runaways -have lately been receiving wide attention because ofthe continued unsolved killings of children. Child disappearances are not turned over to the special child deaths task force until it is determined they fit the profile of the 20 cases under investigation. All the dead and missing children inves­tigated by the task force were aged 7 to I5, all were black, and many received little parental supervision. All but two were boys. They were. killed or disappeared over the past 19 months. -AP 
President Reagan's federal hiring freeze is "neither unconstitutional nor contrary to law," according to U.S. Dis­trict Judge Charles R. Richey, meaning that even those promised employment before the ban was invoked on Inauguration Day are out of luck Richey said that the "20,000-odd" persons who received ac­ceptance letters from federal agencies between the election and Jan. .20 were not legally hired, since Reagan's executive order was retroactive to Nov. S. The letters were "mere offers of jobs which did not rise to the level ofappointments," Richey said in a ruling from the bench after oral arguments. Attorneys for the National Treasury Employees Union, representing worls:crs . in several government agencies, told the judge the letters constituted appointments. The uni­
on estimates that as many as SO,OOO persons may be affected. One 
lawyer for the challengers, Robert M. Tobias, declared he would ap­
peal the ruling and seck back pay for those who are made to depart 
their government offices. -AP 
G. Gordon Liddy was there. So were feminist Betty Friedan and poet Allen Ginsberg. National Urban League Presi­dent Vernon Jordan Jr. made an appearance, as did former Treasury Secretary William Simon. These strange bedfellows, or rather par­tygoers, came together to celebrate perhaps the only thing they have · in common: they'd all seen action on William F. Buckley Jr.'s public television show, "Firing Line." Every one of Buckley's former guests was invited to the show's 15th birthday cele~ration at the New York Yacht Club on Tuesday. And, with some exceptions, they were happy to oblige. Buckley said the controversial lawyer William Kunstler had returned his invitation after checking the line that read: "I regret I cannot be present." "And he crossed out the word regret," Buckley 
said. -AP 
Should college athletes be paid? one 
Nebraska state legislator thinks he has the answer. Sen. Ernest Cham­bers (D-Omaha) has proposed putting the entire University of Nebraska football team on the state payroll. Chambers hasn't specified how much the gridders would be paid, but says it could be a minimum wage. Players who excel could then be offered merit pay or bonuses. Chambers believes the football team deserves payment because it at­tracts a great deal of money to the university and the state. He also intends to usc public hearings on his football payment plan to inves­tigate other alleged problems within the football program, including charges of racism. That possible investigation may be one reason Nebraska football coach Tom Osborne isn't impressed by Chambers' generos' :y. After noting that paying the players would violate NCAA regulations, Osborne offered "no comment" on Chambers' plans. ­
Collegiate Hedlines. 
The Federal Reserve acted yesterday to further 
tighten the nation's money growth, and its chairman embraced Presi­
dent Reagan's budget-cutting program gram "with all the ardor I can 
bring to bear." Paul Volcker's endorsement of the presidential 
package cast aside concerns that the chief executive and the inde­
pendent central bank might clash over anti-inflation strategy. Instead, 
Volcker told Congress that any attempt to whittle Reagan's proposals 
would only worsen the economy. "The president has made a recom­
mendation for spending cuts that are more massive than anything we 
have seen before," Volcker told the Senate committee. -AP 
0 hio's self-proclaimedpotato capital is preparinga spud wrestling exhibition for the Mantua Potato Festival in Septem­ber. The Portage County town, population 1,020, gained notoriety last year by dumpng 10,023 pounds of mashed potatoes from a cement mixer onto a city street, then adding 55 gallons ofgravy to highlight its festival. This year, the potato mix will be dumped onto an elevated stage on Main Street, and female and celebrity wrestlers will grapple in the goo, said Kathy Simmons, festival publicity chairman. The festival begins Sept. 1 1 and runs through Sept. 13. -AP 
Sunnyand slightlycoolertoday. Highs in the low to mid 40s. Mostly clear and cold tonight. Lows in the mid to upper 20s. Increasing clouds and a little warmer tomorrow. Highs in the mid to upper 40s. -AP 
It's time to shout 
The elections for Student Body President are this Tuesday. For those ofyou still awake, there are only two tickets running (both coed), the fewest number in recent memory. You could blame this on student apathy, or perhaps increased awareness. 

Is this the annual "rag on student government" column? The weekly? No, this is an honest assessment of the organization and capabilityofthe student voice as it stands right now, in relation to the almightyfdministra­tion. 
As it stands, this is the "chain ofcommand:" the Hall Presidents Council receives "input," a buzzword ifever there was one, from students in each dorm, and passes proposals on to the Student Senate. The Student Senate this year replaced the old Board of Commissioners, changing the composition slightly and adding five members specially elected for the Senate. 
Logically, the Student Senate would then pass these proposals on to the University, and Vice President of Student Affairs Fr. John Van Wolvlear. That's how present SBP Paul Riehle envisioned things at this time last year in his master plan for centralizing, or simplify­ing if you will, the student voice. Remember that at Notre Dame, student government does not actually govern, It only represents the students' concerns to the University. Sort of like a lobbying group. 
Anyway, the important part of Riehle's plan was to eliminate the Campus Life Council, which was the final step between the Senate and the Administration. The reason for eliminating the CLC was that it had voting members of the Administra--. ..,_..--.._, tion on it, including Fr. Van Wolvlear, whom the proposals wouid go to regardless. Unfortunately, the Board of Trustees told Riehle he could not ter­minate the CLC, even though a student referen­dum showed 96 percent of the student body to favor such a move. 
Riehle was undaunted, consoled only by the fact that the Trustees told him he could rewrite the CLC con­stitution. He organized the Senate anyway, even though it was merely creating another body to deal with. But in revising the CLC constitution, he wrote out all ad­ministrators as voting members, the logical thing to do, and last week the Trustees approved ofthis change. 
That's where it stands. Little has really changed, ex­cept that there should now be no interference from the Administration in the formulation ofproposals. Student government workers will argue that students' attention has now been focused on one viable body, the Senate, and that a consistent, continuous voice can now be expressed. In the meantime, patience has been a key word in following the progress of student government in the past year. 
What's next? Now that there is a unified voice, does that mean the Administration will pay any more atten­tion? No one seems to know, and there obviously is 


t t.v..v.KANSAS ""'""' t t

iC iC iC iC 
Design Editor ...................... Scoop Sullivan Design Assistants ......................... Patty Fox 

~ ~ at the ND ACC ~ ~ 
Ka1hy Crossett Tim Neely Layout Staff. ............................... Kim Parenl 

iC iC Frldau march 27th iC iC 
Lisa Bonlempo 


iC iC ~ • •
Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor...........................Tom jackman 
iC • • • 
Copy Editors ............................ Pam Degnan Lynne Daley 

iC nckets go on sale: iC • 
FeatUIY!s Layout.......................... Tim Neely Sports Copy Editor .............. Beth Huffman Typist .......................................... Cindy jones 

~~onday f&tch 2nd 9:0~ ~ 
Systems Control ................. Chris Albenoli ND Day Editor ........................ Megan Boyle Ad Design ......................... Woody & Jeanne Photographer ....................... Rachel Blounl 

•iC *•. •iC
• ** J9.00/J8.00 iC• ** iC
ie ACC an~U ncket oHices ie 
The Obaerver (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is8ubllshed 





t *** ~ 
by the students of Notre ame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions 

iC Student Lott? iC 
may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre 

~ Sunday f&tch lat *7:00pm ~ 
Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Indiana 

• ~* •
46556. The Observer is a member of the 

iC Lafortune Ballroom ** iC 
Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved. 

! BRING STUDENT ID *...t 

little reason for optimism. Don Murday, one of the two candidates for SBP, feels the key is persistence, to keep hammering away at the near-sighted until they finally agree to wear glasses. The next problem is getting them to take action on what they see. Ifthey see it. 
Tt.te contrast between the two candidates is not great, despite obvious differences in appearance and demeanor. Murday, an outspoken junior from NewJer­sey, worked closely with Riehle this year, perhaps more closely than Riehle's running mate, Don Ciancio. He perceives the social tension here, the lack ofa practical, casual meeting place, as one of the biggest stumbling blocks to keep Notre Dame from becoming a somewhat normal university. 
Pat Borchers, Murday's opponent, views himself as something of an outsider to student government, "on the fringe" as he put it, having served as a Student Senator, while running mate Rosemary Canino is presi­dent of Badin Hall. He does not believe the student voice is unified yet, and places that as one of his top priorities for next year. Bor­chers also feels that Riehle wasted an entire year by not convening the CLC once, and he said he will use that body extensively ifelected. 
For a time, it appeared the Murday/Kenney ticket would run unopposed when the ticket ofswimmingstar Mike Shepardson andJunior Class President Mike Cassidy fell through due to various misunderstandings. But Canino, searchingfor a running 
mate, found Borchers willing, and the pair was able to enter the race when the deadline for applications was extended. Some have questioned the seriousness ofthis ticket, but both appear sincere and dedicated, and they are ready to challenge Murday. 
Perhaps the quality most desirable from an SBP is per­sistence, a willingness to badger the University tireless­ly until they finally cave in -Murday has great experience here. Borchers also seems willing to be per­sistent, and he brings a few novel ideas to the campaign. But we disagree with Borchers' perception that the stu­dent voice is not yet unified. It is, as much as it ever will be. Now it's time to shout. 
Buy Observer Classifieds 

The Observer Thursday, February 26, 1981 -page 3 

Accepts presidency 
Brademas goes to NYU 
By TOMJACKMAN 
Exe,·utir•e Neuos Jidlf(Jr 
Former Rep. John Bradema.~ (D· Ind.), the Third District congres­sman defeated la.~t NoVt·mher by Republican John Uiler in his I I th hid for ret:ll'l:tion, accc.pted the position of president of New York llniVt·rsity yesterday. 
Brademas hn:ame the university's I :\th president, succee!,lin!( John Sawhill, who lc:ft NY! I in August of I979 to ht·come Oeputy Secretary of Eru·rgy under l'rt·sidcnt Carter. Sawhill had promist·d that he would return at tht· l'llll of Carter's term, hut instead an·eptnl a post as chair­man oftht· U.S. Synthetic Fuels Corp. 
Tht· fonm·r !louse majority whip had reportedly been considering presldt·ntial olfers from several uni­vt·rsilles, and wa.~ sekcted for the NYU post over more than 200 ap­plicants. These included Ivan Ben­nett, dean of the NYU medical st·hool and acting prt·sident in the intt·rim, Thoma.~ Ehrlkh, former dean of the Stanford Law School, Barton Gregorian, ex-provost at the University of Pennsylvania, and Maurice Glicksman, provost at Brown University. 
Bennett had been the leading can­Jidate for the position, according to the NYU student newspaper, hut withdrew last week for undisclosed reasons. 
Bradcma~ wa.~ sworn in yesterday in a ceremony in NYU's Bobst Library. He commented in a state· mcnt that "the two principle ob· jectivcs, I believe, of a great university must be tinancial stability and academic excellence. They arc intimately linked, and I am com­mitted to the achievement ofboth." 
Bradcmas, a Harvard graduate and Rhodes Scholar, taught government at Saint Mary's College before being elected to Congress in 1958. During his House career, he gained recogni· tion as a leader in the field ofeduca­tion, and was active in passing legislation which led to tuition grants and loans to college students. 
Brian Kroeger and Ralph Solarekl, organizers of the Mock Stuck Market, look on as Gerry Faust officially opens the student en­deat;or. Stock can bepurchased In the lobby ofthe business building. (photo by Rachei Blount) 
Leftists decline in El Salvador 
White cautions against U.S. support 
W ASliiNGTON (AP) -The for­mer U.S. amba.~sador to El Salvador said yesterday that the leftist gut•rril­la movement Is "broken and declin· lng" and that any attempt to bolster the government through large-scale 
U.S. military aid could backfire with a right-wing coup. 
Robert White, a career diplomat currently here awaiting rea~sign­ment, said "I believe the right is con­
• stantly trying to ovenhrow the government, a~ is the left, and it's a beleaguered government in the middle." 
White, ambassador during the last yt·ar of the administration of then­President Jimmy Carter, testified to a congressional subcommittee that "Tht· real tl'lreat w the stability ofthe 
'The real threat to the government comes not from the left, but from the extreme right.' 
govt·rnment comes not from the left. 
hut lrom the t·xtreme right. The left 
is hroken and dedining." 
Pn·sident Rt·agan tired White as amha.~sador to El Salvador soon after taking offil't: and officials said one reason wa.~ Whitt·'s puhlic critkism oft·vcnts there. 
Reagan is considering hoosting 
U.S. military assistance and st•nding 
~~~~"':.~·~~~=~~!~::·~:,~;~::,~~ 
Sci-fi club sponsors convention 
The Mlchiana Scknt·e Fiction Cluh is holdin~ Jlooskrcon I.S, Saturday, Fch. 2H at Century Center. llooskrcon is South Bend's annua( sdt·nce fiction convt·ntion, and will run from 10 a.m. to 11:59 p.m. 
Events schedukd include the movies "Silent Running" and lUi. Wl'lls ,:Thin!(.~ to Come"; demonstra· tions in costumin~. makt·up, and computer animation; panels on writing ami role-playing ~amt·s; and t.lealns in nt·w and used hooks, t·om­ks, and othn scknn·-fiction-rclatet.l items. Admission is SS. For more details, contat·t Kent l.uca.~ at 232· 
16H'i. 
fend off what the State Departemt says is "a textbook case of indirect armed· aggression by Communist powers through Cuba." 
'It would be a grave error to put in important amounts of advisers or equipment.' 
By speaking out publicly against aid, White wa~ breaking rank with an administration that had not yet dis­clo!!ed its course ofaction. 
But White, in his testimony before the House Appropriations foreign 
operations subcommittee, insisted 
that any increa.~ed support could be ' counter-productive. "I think it would be a grave error · to put in important amounts of ad· 
visers or equipment because I feel 
the Salvadoran government is per­
fectly able to handle the situation it· self," he said. N~>ting that the military already 
ha.~ crushed the leftist so-called tina! , offensive without u.s. aid, he said, • "There is no possibility of leftists 
1 
taking over in El Salvador in'a six-month period if we don't send one ! 
--------------~
lf..¥-¥¥-¥-¥-¥-¥-¥-¥-¥-¥-¥-¥-¥-¥-¥-¥-¥-}(; 
· 1950s Dance Contest 
~  ~  
• ~ *.  tor more  tnfo  at ha~ftime of ND-Illinois women's game Prizes from:  iC ~ iC  

~ ACC Arena Steak & Ale~ ~ Saturda_y, Feb. 28 Farrell,s • 
......................... 
Bausch ~ Lomb Soft Lanse Contacts
The 
* $69 pair 
~ 
200Jo discount to BD students and faculty on eyeglasses 
*Profession fees and care kit additional 
River Bend Plaza Belleville Shopping Center · 337 South Michigan Street · 4612 West Western Avenue South Bend, Indiana 46601 Sout(l Bend, Indiana 46619 
Telephone: 287-2856 Telephone: 288-5646 
piece ofequipment to El Salvador." 
White said El Salvador's security forces, including so-called death squads, are responsible for most of the killing in the Central American nation and criticized the "weasel words" in a State Department docu­ment that suggested that respon­siblity for I0,000 deaths last year was evenly dvided between leftist and rightist forces. 
He said rightist death squads have committed most of the assassina­tions, as many as 5,000, including "thousands and thousands of young people for mere suspicion of being leftists or being sympathizers of lef­tists." 
He also said he is certain that three Roman Catholic nuns and a fourth churchwoman from the U.S. were killed by rightist elements. 
..----..-~--111!111--•
Big Brothers/ 
Big Sisters -Who would like Dayton tickets for 
their Little call Lena at 
6998 

·by Friday, Feb. 27 
BIG BROTHERS/ BIG SISTERS ofND/SMC Don't forget our General Election 
COACH GERRY FAUST keynote speaker Feb. 26 at 6:30 rm 356 Engmeering Bldg. ( members onl 
SUMIIIlB SllBVIOil PBOJIOTS 198 
':£1~--.-.W~Ii·••u• of service to those 
in Social Concerns Scholulhips offered by Botre Dame Clubs toJar1iiclpating slut11en1:11 
Scholarships still available for 'these cities: Cincinnati 
Cleveland Indianapolis Los Angeles Bew Orleans Pittsburgh Wuhington, D.O. 
AT THE 

Thursday Feb. 26 
Lyons Hall Talent Show 
Friday Feb. 27 Bolthouse Forecast 
Saturday Feb. 28 
Waiting For Now 9:00-? (Jazz from Keenan Review) 
DARBY'S WILL BE OPEN 
N 

10:00-12:00 
9:00-10:30 11:00-? 

25¢ per chance Protect Yourself with Don't miss the Celebration! 
I111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
ARE YOUi_ENGAGED 
TO BE mARRIED 
If you are planning to participate
(a mace substitute) 
in Marriage Preparation through the Campus Ministry program, ~end on Monday,
available in 
Bookstore Jewelry Department 
For more information or sign-up stop at the campus.Ministry Office, 
103 Library, or call 6536. 
The Observer 
FAC remains active 
\ 
ByJEFF CHOPPIN 
News Staff 
The 1981 Freshman Advisory Council has been active, but still has "a very longway to go," according to Council Chairman Robert Thompson. 
The most recent activity sponsored by the Council was the Freshman Night at the AC(:. Over 200 people attended the event, which included skating, dancing and a movie all for one dollar. 
"This is the kind of low pressure social event that I'd like to see the Council, and the University as a whole, have more of," Thompson said. He added that "the people who stayed had a good time." 
One of the Council's purposes is to act as a vehicle for freshmen com­plaints, according to Thompson. "Freshmen should realize this. They 
ChygtaQ 
Sophs plan w-eekend 
* 
have not used their representatives to the fullest potential so far." He said that if freshmen have com­plaints, they should take them to their respective dorm representatives. 
Some of the past activities sponsored by the Council were the Thanksgiving Food Drive, which netted $300, and the Class of '84 t­shirt contest. Thompson added that the Council was also responsible, in cooperation with Fr. Greg Green, as­sistant vice president of student af­fairs, for allowing freshmen to bring their cars on campus. The Council also distributes newsletters written by Emil Hofman, dean offreshman. 
The t-shirts, designed by David 
Simon of Fisher Hall, will be 
available sometime after break for 
S5. Freshmen may pick them up 
from their representatives. 
See FAC, page 8 
A student takes advantage of unseasonable weather to go on a treasure bunt. (photo by Rachel 

Blount) 

homores Karen Bossy and Sally Georgen, will consist mainly of musical acts dealing with the first two years ofcollege life. The show is open to all ND-SMC students. A reception for sophomores and their parents will be held in Angela. 
An academic open house is scheduled at I :30 p.m. until 3 p.m. Saturday in Angela. At the academic open house, representatives from Saint Mary's academic departments and administrative offices will talk with students and their parents. Members of the Alumni Association and student government officers will also be present to answer any questions parents or students may have concerning their role at Saint Mary's. Holding the academic open house in Angela is a change in loca-
See SOPHS, page 8 

-----FREE,._-• SENIOR FORMAL BID! 
to be given away TONIGHT!l 
'Senior Bar Raffle 
• • .St. F. 
continuedfrom page 12 
point career scorers for SFC earlier this season, and Convey could reach that plateau tonight. 
"There's no doubt about it," Phelps admits, "We need the student body for this one. Time is running out for all of those seniors. After Dayton, it's all over. 
"I hope we can at least get the cheerleaders to show up for this one." 
Time and again this season, Phelps has made it clear that there ar.e no longer any easy games in college basketball. But even though he seems to wear the point out, time and again he has been proven right. 
"People took teams like Hofstra, Fordham, LaSalle, and Fairfield for granted," he says. "The team tried to avoid looking ahead, but we weren't always successful. 
"I just can't stress enough how much a good crowd means to us at every game -not just the Indiana's and the UCLA's." 
Tonight the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community gets its next-to­last look at the 1980-8I version of the Fighting Irish basketball team. 
After tonight, the Saint Francis game will be forgotten and gone. Af­ter Saturday, Kelly Tripucka, Or­lando Woolridge, .Tracy Jackson, Gilbert Salinas, and Stan Wilcox will be done with the home season and gone. 
But for Saint Francis, tonight's game could last forever. 
If the Red Flash catch Notre Dame's basketball team and student body off guard, it might. 

rystal rocks at Fat Wally's Sat. Feb. 28 9:30 -? 

Special******** 
Bib Tips $3.50 
***all next week**** 
Hamburgers 1/4 lbs. $1.25 
Attention Women of ND/SMC 

ByMARY O'KEEFE 
News Staff 

Saint Mary's annual Sophomore Parents Weekend takes place this Friday through Sunday with a few changes in the traditional schedule ofevents. 
Sophomore Parent Weekend Chairperson Pam Kelly anticipates the :trrival of over 300 parents 
Friday afternoon when registratio~ takes place in LeMans lobby from 2 
p.m. unti16 p.m. Parents who arrive later than 6 p.m. will register in LeMans lobby Saturday from 10:30 
a.m. until 12:30 p.m. 

On Friday evening 75 sop­homores will present a variety show 
j: 

entitled "We Did It Our Way" in An­gela Athletic F,acility at 8 p.m. The show, written lmd directed by Sop­
__./' 


YOU MUIT lieN POl  YOOk lNTERVI!WS  PERSONALLY.  
DAn AI. 8A X  EG SC LW HM X  ~olaataMP1l1110liva Co Chanaad to Mar(:h 9. Hatropolllan Lih Inaurance Co AT1 BA and BIA. AdmJnbtntlva TnJnins Program. Prim~~rlly New York and Chicaao. Perm. Res. Viaa. Shnal Schnf'e, Inc Enainearlna Conllultanta. BH in !E. Candidates {Qr UD poaitlona in ndar and co..unicatlona ayatau, Ilana! proceutna, modallna, al11Ulatton and paramlltar nttut.lon. Santll Clar11, CA. Cttt&anah!p c-eq. '{_o_l_lc..awaaen of Ap!erica, Inc H!A. !ntry level poaitlona, O.tro:l.t. Perm. Re&. Vtaa. MBA with Fin bacltaround or c:oncantution. Clow Corp All lA and BBA and B tn Ens. dlacipllne•  
X I I I I.., . XWad .. I'  X X lf\ ~ I'/ X  ~a_rJ.!lw..t lndu.~triaa, Inc KIA. P_e.H_!I.r:.~•-~C-~ r .. neul ('ontral'!tor. BH in Cl.. Project Englneara. Chh·ago Metropolitan Ar~a. Cttlzenahlp rt>q, Pr!._a_•.'r.__l.!!£ ::~;::~~::~:!:: ·~=r~:u: 1 ~.~~·~!~!!~~~;. S~~~~unshlp TO<l· !tu.•!t~c.r__q,_t.!.£0. BDA in Acct. u._s_•. .lli'l!•~-~ COnllllTUt'tion PT<lducta. B In CE, Hf., HF.JO, EE, Chem. F.ntry level poaitic-1u tn unainearinR 11nd chemistry. Varloua U.S. C:ypaur • l~nl loC'atlon~~;. ~erm. RP111. Vtu.  
Inland Steel Co-Ganaral Offll'!.. iiA-in Acct, MBA. B tn .tlrM.JOra fc,r Custolllltt' Sarvica Ra-(l 11nd Sdu Train••· Northern Illinola C.a Co1-iii"·cE, HE. Old K•nt llank ' Tru.t Co Au BA and BaA. MIA with Fin Concentr.cion. Suta Mutual of AMrica  




The ND/SMC Theatre Proudly Presents: Wycherley's 
The Country Wife 
Feb. 26, 27, & 28 

~ 
Candidates for Student Body President and Vice President, Patrick Borchers and Rosemary Canino, discuss their goals for the upcom­ingyear. See related story on page 1. (photo by Rachel Blount) 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
2/18/81
Main Building 
JOI IMTIRVll\ol!5 AU OPP:N TO SENIORS AND GIWlUAn: STUDENTS IN TH! HAY, AUCUST ANIJ OEt:EMRE~ CWSIS , ••• , • AHY WliO INTEND TO HAVE lNT!RVtEWS H\JST HAVE A COHPU:TED PROFILJ! (llGUTilATION) P'ORH ON Pll.l AT THE PI.AC!H!NT BUREAU. 
T1ll llCN•UP P!IIOD STAATS AT 8100 hH ·ro 1:00 PH TUESDAY IN U. FOIITlJNE !tlliDENT t'ENTER. llCJI-.UP COtUltW!.S rwH l100 PM to 1.:10 PH TUESDAY NlD 8:00AM TO lo:JO 1'!1 lolF.ON£SDAY THIIOUGH YllDAY IN KOOK 21J ADHINlSTRATION BUtLPlNG B!C:INNlNG F!BRUARY 24 FOM I~TERVlEWS !<ltlDUL!D FOR THI WEU. OF HAJI.Cll ), 
"-'---.ill t .. 
Wod7Thi0ul X 
X X 
""' I
1fhut. 
.... 6 
;rr-
X 
l 
All BA, IIA, MIA. (Liaited 'o ()!op}e "'ho wt~ra rdaed ln 
the Cuatn Chlcaaolan.d nu only.) t\anaaaaent tr.lntna opportunlttu. Chlcaaoland. Cithenahtp raq. 

B in 1111 tn111r. 
~.!!!.!!l.!!.lJJ.!..kr..e 
Dlnulfl•J Produc.u. All !lA and 11"811, l'c>dt.iona in ~ala• IU.v11111on, Grocery Produc t•. to"t lonvlde. Per.. 
au. Vlu. 
flnclnnttl Uectrontca Corp I .In 1£. 
O.put..nt or Public Wotka. CJ.!X_.B.!._ Chtc..o B nf Arch, B in C!, HI, !E. 
FlraDational Bank 1n St. L~till 
All IBA tnd KIA. 
t!!_~•bur•h·O.a HDinu Staal Co B In C!, 11!. 
W1nura N1tional BaniL ' Truat Co All lA end BBA. -­
SIJtOQ:It EHPLOYM!HT Raq•~tte l.aiLe CUp.a, •tc:., Adirondack. Stau Park; ~·• T.,..hakk er.d Wtcoauta, lrhtol, NH. My lntar,ued etu&.Dt. Po.ttlona are avaUabla 
Thursday, February 26, 1981 -page 5 
Cross captures Gratnmy A~ard 
NEW YORK (AP) -Christopher Cross, a 29-year-old pop-rock singer, guitarist and songwriter won honors as best new artist last night as the recording industry handed out its 23rd annual Grammy Awards at a star-studded nationally televised ceremony. 
Anne Murray, with her single "Could I Have This Dance?" and George Jones, with his single "He 
.SBP 

conttnuedfrom page 1 
Both candidates agree that the need for a usable student center is a top priority in improving social life. They also advocate more hall input into party policies and increased in­volvement of the student govern­ment in University building plans. 
Their campaign proposes student services such as an optional laundry service with more coin operated machines and a tool rental service for room improvements. They also intend to increase representation from students living off campus. 
Borchers and Canino believe that to accomplish their goals they must show the Administration a persist­ent approach. "If we keep ringing their phones and knocking on their doors, sooner or later they will dis­cuss the issues with us and come to a compromise." 
Stopped Loving Her Today" won the awards as best female and male country vocal performers. 
Roy Orbison and Emmylou Harris won the award for best country per­formance by a duo or group with vo­cal for their single "That Lovin' You Feelin' Again." 
BillyJoel was best male rock vocal performer for his album "Glass Houses." The award for female rock vocal performer went to Pat Benatar for her album "Crimes ofPassion." 
Bob Seger and the Silver Bullet Band won the award as best rock group for the album "Against the Wind." 
Bette Midler was named best 

lr 

OGANIZATIONAL MEETING 
~ 
~
J/t 

Sunday March 1st 7:00 pm Little Theater
Lafortune 

female pop vocal performer for her single "The Rose" from the movie of the same name. Miss Midler's perfor­mance as a drug-addicted rock singer in that film earned her an Os­car nomination as best actress last year. 
Cross -the name is a pseudonym -is from San Antonio, Texas. His six-• man band is called Christopher Cross and so was his debut album. A single from that album, "Sailing," became a big hit and wa<> nominated for song ofthe year and record ofthe year. 
"I think it's the one I wanted most ofall," Cross said after the new artist award wa., announced. 
S11rJ111L 
in •ny 
erua. A rapr•untatin will be ln L.rortune Stud~t r.antar frn• 10100 AH to ':00 PM with full tnforuUon, appUc:at1on1, ate. 


O'Laughlin Aud. Tickets: $2.50 8:00pm Reservations: 284-4176 
·1• 

~-----------------------------------------­

Thursday, February 26, 1981 -page 6 
Editorials 



Who can think globally? 
Colman McCarthy 
WASHINGTON With passed. We haven't been able to prices at the neighborhood gas muddle through. National station rising another ten cents a security means more than an ar­
gallon, with strapped city coun­senal of nuclear weapons to 
cils forced to reduce public prevent foreign attack. It means services and with citizens in the being secure from the effects of drought areas of the country nerv­our own attacks on the earth's 
ous about wasting even a glass of bounty. drinking water, who can think Except for a few news stories globally? And-who can think both following the release of The 
globallly and long range? Global Future, public discussion Against these twin pressures­of its content has been limited. we have enough trouble today, 
This is the routine fate of reports this minute, on our own blocks in 
that dare suggest nations shape our own homes-a group of offi­
their policies according to globalcials from the Council on En­
cooperation, not mutual vironmental Quality and the State 
suspicion. The findings of last
Easier to give than to spend Department is arguing the oher 
year's Brandt Commission and way. 
the Presidential Commission on To withdraw, they suggest in 
World Hunger raised similar
ArtBuchwald 

"The Global Future: Time To 
Act," is not only to flee our moralWASHINGTON-There is no An Army four-star general will Force," the Marine Corps obligations to the world'sdoubt in anyone's mind that the chip in, "Keep your hands off general says. "And the Marines hundreds of millions ofdesperate­military is going to get everything those bags. They've been set are the only ones who ca'n do the ly poor. It is also to gamble reck­'Reagan, in ait asks for in the new Reagan aside to build up our conventional job." 

lessly that economic and
budget. But it's easier to give forces." "You stay out of this," the ad­rambling answer,
ecological stabiliy happen of money to the Pentagon than it is "In a pig's ear," the admiral miral warns. "We'll give you themselves. Overall, it is to 
to spend it. All the services want says. "Every cent has been al­what's left over, once we build said that he wasn't 
ignore inter-relatedness: that thetheir mitts on the new funds, and lotted for new nuclear carriers our missile cruiser ships." 
increasing discomforts felt at the especially concerned.' 
once it's been okayed, we may and anti-submarine ships." The Air Force general says to local gas station, city council see internecine battles between "What about me?" a Marine the Army general, "Don't ever hearing room and kitchen tap arethe armed forces, the likes of Corps general says. push me again or we'll bomb Fort skirmishes in battles that rage at awhich this country has never wit­"Oh, shut up," the Army Bragg back to the Stone Age." 

distance but which advancenessed before. general says. "Oh, yeah," the Army general closer every day. unsettling questions and provideuAs soon as Congress ap­The Brink's driver is annoyed. says." How would you like to see The authors of the report, who compelling answers. Butpropriates the money, it will be "Will you guys make up your SAC headquarters filled with drew on 19 federal agencies for American leaders empowered todelivered in a Brink's truck to the minds? We have to go to lunch." nerve gas?" 
guidance, make no claim that they deal with the skirmishes and whodoorstep of the Pentagon, where "I talked to the Senate Armed While the two are arguing, the 

must rely on unpublicized com­high-ranking officers of the four Services Committee and they said admiral is heaving bags of money missions for strategy on the largerbranches of service will be we could build a new bomber wih behind a bush. The Air Force battles, seldom refer to either ofwaiting for it. this money," the Air Force general and Army general start those documents.
An admiral will say to the general says, trying to grab one of beating up on him. The admiral 'In fact, the era of The CEQ-State DepartmentBrink's employees, "OK, men, the bags. shouts to the Marine general for 
wishful thinking has report has had even less atten­
bring the money up to the safe in The Army general pushes him. help, and the Marine says, "Not tion. It was released in the finalthe Navy procurement office." "Keep your hands off that bag. until you promise me enough for passed. We haven't week of the Carter administra­"The hell you say, an Air Force That's going for our M-60 tank." 1000 helicopters." 
been able to muddle tion, which means Reagan offi­
needs every penny of it, and "President Reagan says he The Brink's guard separates 
cials can dismiss it as the datedmore." wants a Rapid Deployment the officers. The admiral, dusting through.' 
thinking of the ousted. The Presi­
himself off, says, "That does it. 


dent himself, when questioned
We attack Langley Air Force 

last October on an earlier CEQ­
base tomorrow mdrning." 


State Department study, The
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau "Listen," the Brink's guard are the first ones to say that a 
Global 2000 Report, revealed his 

says, "if you guys don't want the relationship exists between disdain for suggestions that the money, I know a lot of people in America's political and economic future is bleak unless we broadenthe government who do." security and how such staggering our thinking.
By this time, someone has problems as world population, "How do you proposenotified Secretary of Defense environmental abuse and responding," he was asked, "toCaspar Weinberger, who rushes resource misuse are solved. Their those long-term global implica­down. goal is more modest than that, one tions (outlined in the Global 2000"What's going on?" he asks that seeks only to offer" a body of Report) of overpopulation,angrily. good ideas for the first rouond of resource depletion and degrada­"Did you promise the Air an effective response to the im­
tions of the environment?"
Force this money for an MX sys­mensely challenging problems Reagan, in a rambling answer,
tem and a new bomber?" before us." 
said he wasn't especially con­"Yes, I did," Weinberger says. has cornerNo one a on the cerned. For one thing, he didn't"And did you give me your market of "good ideas," but it is see much accuracy in past reports
solemn word it would go for ~ew hard to imagine a response that is on Besides the
future problems.aircraft carriers and sub­effective without it including at 
population menace is overblown.marines?" the admiral asks. least a few of the report's recom­
He told of adding thousands of
"Ofcourse." 

mendations: a major increase in 
acres to California's beaches"And didn't you swear," the America's foreign non-military 
when he was governor. Yet heArmy general says, "that we aid, which would reverse the 
said, "you find many of thosewould get the bulk of the new ap­decline in our economic develop­state beaches today, on the hot­propriations to modernize our ment assistance; more participa­test day of the summer, there's noequipment?" tion in international programs to one on them." Then, in a com­"I recall saying that." assure safe drinking water (in a ment on the level of his celebrated"So which service gets the world where 500 million suffer trees cause pollution statement,money?" waterborne diseases); better con­Reagan spoke approvingly of"None of you," Weinberger trol in the exporting of hazardous studies saying "the earth can sup­replies. "I just got a call from AI substances; an increase in the port a population of 28 billionHaig and he says the $8 bill on has research on ozone depletion. 
people."to go for military equipment At first glance, these and many 
Perhaps so, if a planetary Cal­We're giving to El Salvador." other similar recommendations cutta can be imagined. What it may seem like the wish-list -of can't support is a population thatArt Buchwald is a syndicated well-meaning bureaucrats. It fact, · has no leaders daring enough tocolumnist. the era of wishful thinking has think beyond tomorrow. 




Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Edltor-ln-Cbtef......................................Paul Mullaney Features Edttor.......................................Molly Woulfe Managtng Editor..........................................Mark Rust Photo Editor ...............................................John Macor 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Editorials Edltor................. : ............ Mlchael Onufrak Business Manager ..................................Greg Hedges University of Notre Dame du ~-c and_ Saint ~1ary'~ C<:>lle~e. It does not ~ecessanly Senior Copy Editor.....................Mary Fran Callahan reflect the policies of the admtmstrauon _of euhe~ m~utuuon. The news 1~ r_eporred Executive 'Vews Edltor.~.......................Tom Jackman Controller........................................................jim Rudd as accurately and as objectively as posstble. Edtt~n~ls represent the opmton _of a News Editor ............................ : .....: ............ Lynne Daley Advertising Manager...................................Mark Ellis majority of the Editorial Board. _Comn:tentaries, opmwns, and letters are th~ vtews SMC Executive Editor..........................Margie Brassil Advertising Sales Manager....:......-.Michael MeSally of their authors. Column space ts avadable to all members of the c~mmumty, and SMC News Editor.............. ; .....: ................. Mary Leavitt Circulation Manager ............................Beth Hackett the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, ts encouraged. Sports Edttor...........................................Beth Huffman Production Manager....-......................)ohn McGrath 

Thursday, February 26, 1981 -page 7 
Features 
Trust -Elvis Costello (Columbia) 
T a~t year, F.lvis Costello released forty songs on two 
Lsmglc albums -twenty each on Get Happy!! and 
TakinR Liberties. The songs on the former were good, but their brevity made them st·em like appetizers, tasty hut not satisfying; and after twenty, who could remem­
ber what each tasted like? The latter was a compilation ofcollector's items ( B-sidcs ofsingles, imports, etc.); as a result, it suffered from a lack ofcontinuity and a dearth ofquality material as well as an overabundance ofsongs. This year's model, Trust, has none ofthese flaws. It of­fers fourteen brand-new Costello tunes, superb hacking hy The Attractions, and impeccable production by Nick Lowe. 
Trust docs not have the intense energy ofGet Hap­py!! with the exception of"l.uxembourg" and "l.over's Walk." This record has a more laid-back feel and greater listenability. The ballads, such as "Watch Your Step" and "New Lace Sleeves," are the strength of the album, not its weakness. Costello's voice sounds smoother on the ballads; this enables the listener to m~rc easily decipher his witty lyrics. Some lines jump out and beg for attention -"good manners and bad breath get you nowhere" from "New Lace Sleeves" is a good example -but usually concentration is needed ifone wants to figure out what he's singing about. However, that's half the fun. 
Side one rocks harder, but side two is Elvis at his mel­low best. Anyone who particularly liked"Alison" (from My Aim Is True) will fall in love with it. In one of my favorites, the countryish "Different Finger," Costello adds an ironic touch by using his most sincere tone of voice to sing these lines: "I don't want to hear your whole life story/ Or about my strange resemblance to some old flame/All I want is one night ofglory/! don't even know your second name." Another highlight of this side (and the album, for that matter) is "From a Whisper to a Scream," which features Chris Difford of Squeeze (another British band)duetting with Elvis. Add the poignant "Shot With His Own Gun," "Big Sister's Clothes," and the wife-beating talc of"White Knuckles," plus the excellent sequencing ofsongs, and I'd have to rate this side the better ofthe two. 
There arc no throwaway cuts on Trust. Although not every song could be a hit single, they all work well wit­hin the context of the album. The expression "the whole is greater than the sum ofits parts" certainly applies to this record. It is never an easy task to write an album's worth ofsongs that are neither so similar as to he monotonous nor too diversified as to seem dis­jointed. With Trust, Costello has succeeded in deliver­ingfourteen songs that have variety and continuity, and the performance and production arc equally laudable. 
The only negative aspects ofthis album arc a lack ofa lyric sheet (some words are impossible to comprehend no matter how hard one tries) and a lack ofdanceable tunes (you can't pogo to it). 
Trust is Costello's best record sinceArmed Forces, and I feel it is even better. Every Elvis Costello fan will want it, and for anyone who has never heard any ofhis 

albums, this will be a good place to start. So take the liberty ofgetting Trust, and get happy!! 
Joe Pheifcr 
Rock History I 
FleetwoodMac: third time lucky 
(Author's note: this Is thefirst In a series ofarticles their most famous song ofthis period was the 1972 about bands which har1e retained the same name, or Welch composition "Sentimental Lady." 11ery close to the same name, but are In essence com­Kirwan left soon after their most successful album to pletely different now compared to sometime In the date,Bare Trees. Two replacements came and went. past.) Late in 1973, frustrated with a lack ofsuccess in the States, Fleetwood Mac almost broke up. They went to l~'or all practical purposes, one can say that Fleetwood 
Eurpoe to attempt to regroup. Meanwhile, their 
.1' Mac has been three (technically, four) different manager had booked a tour for early in 1974. Since groups. The only common bond among these groups none ofthe band wanted to tour, he formed a bogus are two ofthe founding members, Mick Fleetwood and Fleetwood Mac (technically, the third version ofthe 
John McVic -the two who gave their names to the hand) and toured anyway. Word soon spread about the hand in 1967, when they first formed. trick and the tour had to be cancelled. After this inci­During their early years, they were a blues band. One dent, the hand began to manage its own affairs. original member Oeremy Spencer) was a respected 
Bob Welch left in 1974 after the LP Heroes Are Hard 
bottleneck guitarist; the others (Peter Green, Fleet­to Find. He was replaced by an American duo, Undsey wood and McVie) were veterans ofJohn Mayall's Buckingham and Stevie Nicks ...and the rest is history. Bluesbreakcrs. They had very little success in the 
Fleetwood Mac, released in 1975, became a number one record. The 1977Rumours spent more weeks at
United States, yet were very popular in Great Britain. number one than any other rock album. And the 1979
Their best known songs from that period arc "Black Tusk sold four million copies worldwide. Their sound
Magic Woman," made famous in the U.S. by Santana; now is best described as pop-rock: easily accessible to a
"Albatross," a classic blues instrumental; and "Oh mass audience, yet still t hard enough to gain FM airplay.
Well," their only U.S. lfot I00 hit until 1975. The current version ofFleetwood Mac has been to­
Danny Kirwan joined in 1968; Peter Green and gether for six years now, longer th;m any other, and
Jeremy Spencer left in 1970, to be replaced by Christine rumors constantly emerge that they are breaking up. So 
Perfect McVic (ofChicken Shack) and American Bob W clch. After the blues guitarists (Green and Spencer) 
far, that "inevitable" breakup has not occurred. left, the sound of Fleetwood Mac completely changed. 
Tim NeelyThey became a progressive -rock band. Probably 


Quiz XIV: Re-releases 
L
ast week'~ ~uiz was relatively easy. Since most group reunions arc well-pubhc1zed, most of those last week should have bct·n fairly straightforward. As usual, the answers arc found below this week's quiz. 
An interesting phenomenon of rock is the reissue hit. They don't happen very often, but when they do, few people realize it. That is be­cause most re-releases failed the first time around, or were successful in one part ofthe country alone. A good example ofthis is "She's Gone" by Daryl Hall andJohn Oates. Originally re!cased on 45 RPM in 1974, it became a big hit in Philadelphia, but did not get close to the top 40. After Hall and Oates went to RCA in 1976, and hit with "Sara Smile," Atlantic (their old label) reissued the 1974 flop, and it made the top ten. 
Occasionally, a big hit will find its way back ontn the charts. The big­gest case ofthis was Chubby Checker's "The Twist," which hit num­ber one in 1960, and upon reissue in 1961, hit the top again early in 1962. A more recent case which you may remember is "Monster Mash" by Bobby "Boris" Pickett. That record hit number one in 1962, then was rc-released in 1973 and peaked at number ten. These arc the only two reissues to make the top ten twice since 1955. Other big hits to re-enter the top 40 over the years arc "Surfin' USA" by the Beach Boys ( 1963, 1974); "Rock Around the Clock" by Bill Haley and the Comets ( 1955, 1974); and"Wipe Out" by the Surfaris ( 1963, 1966). But this kind ofreissue is the exception rather than the rule. 
This week's quiz deals with the more common case -the original flop which became a reissue success. Here arc ten questions dealing with those strange creatures ofrock history. Unless otherwise noted, name title and artist ofthc songs. 
1. 
This single was originally released on 45 in 1967 and went nowhere on the charts. After a popular disc jockey started to use it as the closing song of his radio show, it started to gain momentum. A nationwide reissue in the summer of 1972 led to a number two ranking for the record, the biggest ever for the group involved. The composer of the song used the pseudonym "Redwavc." 

2. 
Here is a rare occurrence in rock history. This single, cut from its album version to less than three minutes' playing time, failed in 1971; when reissued a year later, in its full seven-minute, ten-second ver­sion, it became a top ten hit. 

3. 
This song was buried on a then-obscure first album by a then­obscure black singer in 1969. Three years later, the song was used in the forgettable movie Play Misty for Me. However, it gained some at­tention; three years after its original release, it soared to number one, ended up the number one song ofthe year, and launched a successful career for the singer involved. 

4. 
This record was originally released in 1946, but no one would play it because it was too risque. Twenty-nine years later, thanks to an oft-repeated commercial for a Dr. Demento radio show on WNBC in New York, it became a number one hit there, and, eventually, a top 40 hit nationwide. 

5. 
When the Beatles hit it big in America early in 1964, there were literally dozens ofBeatles songs on the charts. Surprisingly, ofall those that made the top ten, only two ofthem had been previously released in America on 45 RPM. Name them. 

6. 
This record developed impressive airplay figures in the band's hometown, Chicago, in 1972, but could not crack the upper reaches ofthe charts. In 1975, a reissue of this song (after more impressive airplay figures on WLS ofChicago) made it as high as number six. Today the group is one ofthe most popular in America. 

7. 
Asong which has since become a country-rock classic was a regional hit in 1972 and a top 40 reissue in 1975, just as in question six. However, the story ends differently; this band went through many personnel changes, and could not crack the top 40 again until the sum­merof1980. 

8. 
This record was released in 1959 and was on the way to becom­ing the biggest hit ever for a then-unknown country singer. Then, just as his song was starting to break, he had the misfortune oflanding in jail. Radio stations would not play his record, and it died a premature death. In 1975, he returned to the music scene with a vengeance. His first release in that year became a number one pop and country hit. The followup made the pop top ten. The followup was a re-recorded version ofthe same song that had almost made it for him sixteen years earlier. 

9. 
Two performers in rock history have had two re-issues, each of which made the top ten. One, previously mentioned, is the Beatles. Can you name the other, plus their two top ten reissues? 

10. 
In the spring of 1976, this record peaked at number 100 on the Billboard Hot I 00. A year later, after the group responsible had a number one single, this was rc-released and made the top 40. Both this song and the number one hit preceding it were written by the same person, ,who was not a member ofthe group. 


Here arc the answers to last week's quiz: 
( 1 ) Stcppenwolfbroke up in 1972 and re-formed in 1974; ( 2) The Bee Gees became the top group ofthe seventies; ( 3)The Moody Blues broke up afterSeventhSojourn hit the top;(4 )Crosby, Stills, and Nash were the on-again, off-again supergroup; ( 5) Simon and Garfunkel were the most successful duo ofthe sixties; ( 6) Peaches and Herb ·· were the successful black duo; ( 7) The Searchers were the early British group referred to; ( 8) Peter, Paul, and Mary broke up after "Leaving on aJet Plane" hit number one; (9) Bread was the group which had eleven top 40 hits in the early seventies; and ( 1 o) The Byrds were the ever-changing band which came about in 1965. 

--~------­
Ihe-=Clbserver~=================-=-====== 


T0 da~=============T=hu=r=sd=a=y=,F=e=b=ru=ary=2=6=,=19=8=1==p=ag=e=8= 

! ~ -­
hope that the girls and their parents have a good time," Ms. Kelly said. 
.. .FAC 
continuedfrom page 4 
Future events to be held will be the freshmen formal and the movie "Heaven Can Wait." 
The formal will be held on April 1 1 at an undetermined site on campus. The on-campus location will make the formal accessible to all the freshmen, Thompson said. He blamed last year's poor turnout on the off-campus location. 
All profits from the March 6-7 showings of"Heaven Can Wait" will be turned over to the Council treasury to help sponsor the formal. 
Thompson hopes that the fresh­man class will participate more for the re·mainder of the Council's events. "The key for the remainder nf the year will be class input." 
!..,__. 
~. 
-1981 BENGAL BOUTS 
Sunday  March 1  
Wednesday  March 4  
Saturday  March 7  

Support your favorite boxer. BUY YOUR TICKET TODAY!! 
LLEGHENY LUDLUM STEEL CORP. 
COUNTRY'S LEADING PRODUCER OF SPECIALTY STEELS 
NTERVIEWING ON CAMPUS MARCH 4 

CAREER I'N ALES/MARKETIN"-"­
The Observer Thursday, February 26, 1981 -page 9 

.. .Frosh 

continuedfrompage 10 
frustration and pain caused by bench-splinters and wondering if he'd ever get his chance. 
"I know what those guys are going 
through," admits Woolridge. "It's 
tough coming from high school 
where you're all-everything to 
Notre Dame where you gotta serve 
your time. Hey, I've played against 
all four of these guys in practice and at the Rock and I know how good they are. They're gonna · be great players at Notre Dame, believe me." 
And Woolridge isn't an exception. Fans remember how they booed a freshman named Toby Knight and laughed at a rookie' named Hanzlik. Both players worked harder and got better and now they laugh all the way to the bank with their fat NBA paychecks. 
Practice and patience make per­fect. 
Irish hockey team 
Loganbelievesin icers 
By TIM LARKIN 
Sports Writer 
The Notrt· Dame h<Kkey team was 
not eliminated from the fight for the 
final WCHA playoff spot despite 
being swept by Colorado College 
)a<;t weekend, and right winger Jeff 
Logan still believes the Irish can ad­
vance to postseason play. 
"We knew it was going down to 
the la<;t weekend," says Logan. "I'm 
pretty optimistic that we're going to 
make the playoffs. We have to win at 
least one against Wisconsin." 
For Logan and the Irish, beating 
second place Wisconsin will be no 
easy ta<;k. Notre Dame had an excel­
lent opportunity to gain ground in 
the playoff race against Colorado 
College, hut failed in 4-3 and S-2 
losses. 
"To he optimistic, I'll say we 
played very .emotional, which is 
~om<:thing we haven't done in a long 
time," rt•plies Logan when asked to 
comment on the Colorado series. 
"And everyone gave I00 percent. 
"Friday night we ran into a hot goalie and on Saturday night, I hate to say it, hut the referees had a big impact on the game." The series left the Fighting Irish with a 8-17-1 it'ague record and 12-20-2 overall. "We've had <lur share of problems this year. The key players that we thought were going to come through haven't, especially the up­pt·r dassmen. llowevt·r, lately they have bt·en supplying the leader­ship," says Logan about the tt·am's lat·k ofsuccess. 
Logan is a native bf Grosse Pointe Shores, Mkh., and first startt·d playing h<Kkey when he was t1ve years old. As he grew older, he developed a strong interest and fur­ther~·d his game. 
Logan split his playing time be­tween the junior kagues and high school. In his one year of junior hockey, Logan it'd his league in goals. He then played for University Liggelt High School a<; a senior. That year, he set team records with 52 goals for the season and nine points in one game, and also added 51 as­sists. 
Logan decided to attend Notre Dame becaust· he wanted a school that had more than just a hockey team. "I didn't want to put all my eggs in one basket," says Logan. "I wanted something to fall back on." 
Logan was a rt•gular forward when he was a freshman. During his initial season, he· collected I 4 goals and added 16 assists. In the following sea<;on, his statistks were similiar as he tallled I 7 goals and 14 assists, despite missing six games with stomach muscle prohll'ms. 
During his sophomore year, 
Logan had his greatest weekend. In a 
two-game series with Michigan 
Tech, he scorl·d hat tricks on both 
nights, whi(.·h carnc:l.l him lhe WCHA 
Player ofthl· Week honor. 
"I didn't think I played that well. It 
just happem·d that evcrytime I shot 
the puck it went in," says Logan. 
This year Logan has been one of Notre Dame's top performers. After 34 games, ht· ll'ads the Irish in goals scored with 21 and total points with playing for Notre Dame is the 
39. To add to his offensive skills, players on the team. "I've never Logan has rarely put the Irish in been on a team that has been so short-handed situations as close," says Loga111 "We do every­evidenced by his 18 penalty minutes thing together and there isn't any in 1980-81. animosity between us." 
Logan wasn't satisfied with his Jeff Logan, an economics major, play earlier this year. He felt he wao; isn't certain of his plans after gradua­only playing well only about halfthe tion. He still has a great desire lo play time. However, Logan thinks now he hockey after he leaves Notre Dame is playing his best hockey. and also has a strong interest in 
What Logan likes best kbout traveling. 
ii~ 
::: 


:: : 
MEET COACH DIGGER PHELPS 
·,!price $9.95 
WHO WILL AUTOGRAPH HIS NEW BOOK 
DIGGER PHELPS AND NOTRE DAME BASKETBALL 
THIS SATURDAY· FEB. 28 FROM 10 to Ilam 
2nd FLOOR BOOK DEPT· 
AT HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
-~· :~_.,l. 
And this year's class of diamonds in the rough may find their niches sooner than most. Phelps will say good bye to five seniors at the end of the season and one has to believe that these freshmen fit heavily into next year's plans. 
"They definitely do," emphasizes McLaughlin. "Our system here is tough to learn but we think the freshmen have it down now so next year they're going to be in a position to help us." 
i 

·­

See hockey story to the left. (photo byjohn Macor) 

• 

Thursday, February 26, 1981 -page 10
The Observer 

After successfully qualifying for a third NCAA championship event last weekend, the Notre Dame track team prepares for the Il­linois Classic Meet on Saturday. (photo by RachelBlount) 
H:UJRSDAY NI2HT FILM SERlE 
Thursday, February 26 
To Catch a Thief Dir. by Alfred Hitchcock (U.S.A.) 1955 
With Cary Grant as the Cat Burglar (reformed, of course) 
and Grace Kelly as everybody's favorite ice cube doing a
• 
Hitchcock fandango around the usual "fabulous" jewels on the French Riviera. 
THE SNITE 'MUSEUM OF ART 
7:30 pm admission s·1.0 sponsored by the ND-SMC 
~~cOMMUNICATION &THEATR~~~ 

Senior Bar 
Semi Formal Sunday March 1 

9:30-2:00 
$15.00 per couple 
OPEN BAR 
Friday Night -Ladies Night 
Raffle for the Women 
For NO track 

Dawning of a new era 
The dawningofa new era sounds a little dramatic, but that's the way a couple ofcoaches are talking about the future of the Notre Dame track and cross country programs. 
Head CoachJoe Piane and his one and only assistant, Ed Kelly, began working together six years ago. Since then Notre Dame has had four all-Americans and a steady improvement in won-l,ost reords. More impor­tantly, the caliber of the entire team has reached the point where it can be considered in the same breath with teams like Indiana and Michigan. Why? 
Work. Work and a better attitude, says Piane. 
"When Ed and I came here you wouldn't have , believed how bad the attitude was," he recalls. :'Everything was negatve. Ed works his tail off and I work pretty hard and the kids see that. lfyou're down at Corby's drinking beers not really caring the kids sense that and say, 'why should we work if he isn't?' We've· done an adequete job ofrecruiting, but we'll have to do better-that's the key." 
So the question is: What's new? Why should things 
start to improve? There is the fact that Van Pearcy, a 9.6 
100-yard dash and 46.8 440-yard sprint man will be 
here next year. But in the past, football players at Notre 
Dame have not readily participated in other sports. 
"Van Pearcy would not be at Notre Dame ifit weren't for Gerry Faust," says Piane. "Gerry Faust has given him a guaraptee that he doesn't have to participate in spring ball. For him (Van Pearcy) track was as important as football. If would have said, 'No, we don't want you in 
track', he wouldn't be coming here. 

"Faust sees that there is value in track, not just for sprinters, but for everyone. He goes out and encourages them. Greg Bell is a freshman (and a football player)and is doing an excellent job. Rob McGarry is another ex­ample." 
''The difference is that previously, the kids weren't as encouraged as they are by Faust. Now, Gerry is saying, 'Yeah, I think it's a great idea. It's good for football, it's good for the program.'" 
This .year's team is the best Piane has fielded since taking over in 1975. Piane, a Peace Corps veteran, is a quiet, self-motivated man and his personality, as it does for all coaches, affects his coaching style. 
"I'm not about to give great fire and brimstone speeches and great pep talks," Piane emphasizes. "I simply can't do that. It's just not me, it's not in me to do that. 
"Track is so much different from most sports. In foot­
ball, you get motivated by hitting someone. In track you 
go out and perform yourself. I think you gravitate 
Sports Writer 

toward the sport that matches.your personality. I enjoy . it because it is so individual. 
"In football your success or failure is contingent upon ten other guys. In track, you can only blame it on yourself. It's all up to you. Also in sports like football, wrestling, or tennis your up against an adversary who is preventing you from your activity. In track, your success or failure is c_ontingent upon you 95 per cent of the time. !like that. 
''I've never had any problems with motivation. Most track kids are pretty self-motivated. The kids we get are really motivated. Ifyou don't want to run, then fine, hit the road. Because for Ed and I this is the most important sport, and that's the way most ofthe kids feel too." 
Piane, the only coach at Notre Dame directing teams in. the fall, winter and spJ;ing seasons has one assistant, Ed Kelly, who is, officially, a part time coach. Kelly teaches at Niles High School and was an outstanding pole vaulter for Notre Dame in tht~ mid-1960's. 
"He is supposed to be part time, but he works full time, all the time," Piane says. "He is the most dedicated coach on campus, bar none. I'll put him up against anybody. I have never seen a coach with more concern for his athletes than Ed Kelly. 
"Today the future looks bright. I think that (Athletic Director) Gene Corrigan is going to push the program. 
. That's my impression. And Gerry Faust is going to help us. I think the track program is going to improve. We're about five class athletes from being one of the top twenty teams in th~ nation." 
Notre Dame has class athletes right now, most notab­ly Chuck Aragon, who may soon achieve the 'Bannisterean' feat ofbreaking the four minute mile. But beinga national contender means more than one or two great runners and a great relay team. Consistency throughout each part ofthe team, as in all sports, is the key. 
A new era may in fact be dawning which could add another national championship to Notre Dame's list. Corrigan, Faust, luck, the student body, and mostly Piane and Kelly will decide ifthe sun will come up. 
FT. LAUDERDALE DAYTONA BEACH 
SPRING BREAK SPRING BREAK * 

* 
ONLY $135 ! * 
R MORE INFORMATION CALL:* 
STEPHEN ENGRO 
-....---1122 Flenner Hall Phone: 283-1216 Hours: 5:30 to 6:30 pm 
11:00 pm to 12:00 pm 
RIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSIRESS 
WHAT'S REXT? ~ It's a tough world-out there ·even with that degree you've worked hard for. An MBA isn't magic -but it does open doors. 
'ralk to us • your MBA is the best next step you can take. 
Write or call 
i----------­

Detach and l;llail for application 
-1 

TELEPHOlfE HUMBER 
MAIL TO: GRADUATE SHCOOL OF BUSIRESS ADMISSIORS OFFICE URIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH, PITTSBURGH, PA 15260 C14 
~-·-··--------------------------­
lfAME 
ADDRESS 

.Frosh 
continuedfrom page 11 
The loyalty they've shown to Notre Dame will pay off." 
Certainly there is -evidence to back up McLaughlin's prediction that the freshmen's time will come. One need only look at Cecil Rucker at 6-8, 190, to recall another fresh­man from another year named Woolridge-who was just one inch taller and five pounds heavier when . he arrived at Notre Dame. Today Woolridge is unquestionably a star; perhaps the most underrated player in the game. But he remembers the 
See FROSH, page 9 

~town ~bag ij w~ the candldftes 
\apl.sav~~AND, DATES 
~ 
FOrum 
Friday februAry 27th 
~ 04 ~'Sha 
12:1 pm 

ome nd meet t e can idatei 



~ -----­
Sports Brie{§ -page 11
Thursday, February 26, 19s1 
~~~~====r==============================
by The Ohrerr,er and Thl' AI.rua/Jted Pn.r.r 
A 1950s Dance Contestand Ice Cream Social will he .1mong the attractions Saturday afternoon during the Notre Dame women's basketball team's home finale against the Fighting lllini of lllinols. The Notre Dame Athletic Department and the Varsity Crowd ue sponsoring the fun-for-all afternoon, along with Farrell's Icc Cream ?arlor and Steak & Ale Restaurant, which arc providing the prizes. All participating couples will receive a free icc cream cone at an ACC concession stand. Sign-ups for the Dance Contest will begin im­fl't•diately following the men's game against Dayton, and continue through the first half ofthe women's game. Admission is free. 
Notre Dame-Saint Mary's women interested in golfshould contact Mary Beth Heslin at 1349 in 4 31 Breen-Phillips. A women's club team is being formed and several matches have al­ready been arranged with a full schedule hdng planned for next fall. Try-outs will he near the middle ofMarch. Noel O'Sullivan, men's head coach, has agreed to coach the women's team. 
Freshtnen contribute to \Vin 
By FRANK LaGROTIA 
Sports Writer 
Theirs arc not names the average fan would immediately recognize whenever the subject of Notre Dame basketball arises. They do not receive the playing time, score the points or sign the autographs that a Tripucka or Paxson docs. In fact, against tough opponents in those "big games," they usually don't bot­her to take off their warmups. 
"They" are this year's freshmen ­Joe Kleine, Cecil Rucker, Tom Sluhy and Barry Spencer-and all ofthem have quickly, maybe even painfully, learned that it takes time to crack the lineup ofa major college basket­ball team. 
Discouraging? Perhaps. But Dig­ger Phelps has nothing short of total confidence in his rookie quartet. 
"Those guys have been super for us all year," he points out. "They help us in areas that may not always show up on television or in a boxscore, hut the coaches and players are aware of their contribu­tion." 
Assistant coach Tom McLaughlin elaborates: 
"The freshmen help us get ready for a big game, and in that respect they an: as much a part ofa win like Virginia as the guys who played. Ask 
John Paxson. He'll tell you that playing against Barry Spent·er in practice all wt:ek helped him get ready to guard Jeff Lamp. Or ask Or­lando Woolridge. Working against Joe Kleine before Virginia preparl·d him to play against Ralph Sampson." But Mclaughlin doesn't stop 
thl·re. 

"I can say that those guys arl· a big n·ason why we won the Virginia ganll·," hl· concludes. "No, morl· than that, they are thl· n·ason wl·'re having the kind of Sl'ason Wl''n· having so far. Sure it's tough to sit on the hl·nch. But thdr time willcontl'. 
See FROSH, page 10 
Classifieds 
LOST. Georgetown rersey last II yau·re like me, you are dymg lor open a door to the sophomore ltterary AN TOSTAL starts April 23 bu\ work TONIGHT Thursday m ACC Fieldhouse. lllound. peanut buller. Surely you've no\1ced a festival march 1-7 begms now I Jam AN TOSTAL \hiS year. TONIGHT
~TICES~ 
call Jell 8644 Critical shortage. but I have some. II March Is\ 7:00 pm. LaFortune Little TONIGHT 
you're Willing to pay, I'm w1llmg to sell. Jell Jellers lor UMOC. Theater PROFESSIONAL TYPING. Term Found: 1 pair ol Keys. 3 Keys on nng at Call Mlkeat1601. ,,,,,,,,,,., MamaC, papers, theses. etc. Tape 1ranscr~pt1on. Rockne Gym Phone 1487to 1den\ily. TYPING MY HOME, UNIV. PARK AREA. VOLUNTEERS NEEDED: 57-56, Can I have sllrl and turf 
277-3085

Last year's same low pnces All work 1 Tutor 11-yr.-old, Math & Soc1al Tom guaranleed. aardvark automatic solu­LOST: BLACK WALLET AT THEACC.. S\ud1es. 
tions. 289-6753 THURSDAY. FEB 19 REWARD IF THE N.J. CLUB HAS ONLY 5 SEATS 2.Recopy, m large print, I 00 pgs. of a Want to add a little fun to your Flor~da FOUND CALL 232-0760 TICKETS LEFT ON THE BUS. CALL CHRIS AT Math book for a teacher gomg bhnd. ·lrtp? Three Flonda-bound roxes DON'T WALK ALONE Ill 4479 OR KEVIN AT 7687 TO RESERVE 3 Tutor 10-yr -old on Fractions. desperately need r1de toFt Lauderdale 
GET AN ESCORT !II LOST GOLD BENRUS LADY'S YOURSEATIII Contact Volunteer Services. 7308. for spung break. Will share dr1v1ng and Student Escort Semce-On-Call Sun. \o WRISTWATCH IN LIBRARY AUD. ON2-I NEED MANY DAYTON TIX, STUDENT expenses Call Pass1onate Polly at Thurs. 7 \o M1dn1gh\. Call 6263 16. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL TERESA AND GA-PLEASE CALL MONICA AT The Death Star is ready.. To Older Sister & Doll Baby 6008 This ISnotaroke-you'llbeglad (OBUD) Allhe NO Library 10 to 11 :45 AT2156. 41·5154 Now I know· lor a w1ld & crazy time-you d1dl 
pm. All student Volunteers ATIENTION GILA MEMBERS !I FRIDAY · IUS\ ·Follow the Yellow-Lit Dome" to USEITIIIIII LOST. A PAIR OF EYEGLASSES, NEED 4 DAYTON TICKETS, GA OR IS \he DEADLINE lor applymg lor a Farley 212. Thanks Ill Love. NEED A RIDE TO CHICAGO ON DON T BE AFRAID TO CALL I LIGHT BROWN FRAMES IN A NAVY STUDENT. 232·0982 GILA OFFICERSHIP. Call Tom al31 04. The Adolescent THURSDAY AFTERNOON OR EARLY 
CASE. LOST FEB 12, FRL CALL FRI MORNING WILL SHARE DRIVING USED & OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS SUSAN AT 7859 Need two Dayton GAs $$$Jim 277-0331 GILA MEMBERSII DON'T MISS ITII & EXPENSES CALL 283·2126 LEAVE bought. sold, searched ERASMUS FRIDAY is \he last day \o apply lor a JIM T AND STEVE MESSAGE OR CALL AFTER 11 P M 
BOOKS. Tues-Sunday, 12·6. 1027 E. LOST: COMP. GOVT. NOTEBOOK, GILA OFFICERSHIPII Call Tom al3104 IT WOULD BE OUR PLEASURE TO BE Wayne (One block south ot Eddy· LEFT ON COPY MACHINE IN Need lour Dayton tickets. Call Eileen at by FRIDAY. ESCORTED TO THE TAl-MILITARY DO YOU LIKE TO GOLF? DO YOU JUST Jellerson Intersection) LAFORTUNE. IF FOUND, PLEASE 8042 BALL BY YOU. LIKE TO PUT THE BALL IN THE HOLE? 
CALL MARK 1686 MARY KAREN Ar-ID KATHY Come see CADDYSHACK Friday and MORRISSEY LOAN FUND I NEED 2 DAYTON GA'S. MY LITTLE Saturday at SMC's Caroll Halllll 7. 9
Goodbye Scoop, 

Emergency loans lor NO students $20· BROTHERS HAVE THEIR HEARTS SET Linda... Are you se•ually act1ve? . It no\, and 11 p.m Adm1ss1on only $1
Las\ night was great.

$200 One percen11nlerest. Due m one ON GOING TO THE GAME. PLEASE Hal I can take care of that. month. Open 11.30-12.30. M-F Base· 
CALL JOE AT 8306. I M ALL RIGHT Ill How 'bout you? mentor LaFortne Fmal day tor sen1ors Dear Mary, Come see B1ll Murray, Rodney Danger· to apply 1s Fr~day, March 13 ATTENTION PROFIT MAXIMIZING Have you eaten your vegetables today? held. and I he Ground Hog Ill Friday and 
ENTREPRENEURS: NYC Bankers otter Q: Why IS Bill Nellis! so ugly? Love, mom Saturday at SMC's Carroll Hall a\ 7, 9 TYPING -$ 65 a page. Also proles· to make you rich m e•change lor 2 G.A. A: Because his mother led him brus­and 11 p.m AdmiSSIOn $1 s10nal resumes done. Call Dan, 272-TIX to Dayton game. call John at 234-sels sprouts with a slingshot. Keg, 5549 5782 VOTE BILL 'GRIZZ' NELLIST FOR 32·16·4?C'monl Steak & Ale Restaurant and Farrell's 
UMOC JJJ Ice Cream Parlor. 1n conjunctiOn with CRYSTAL ROCKS at Fat Wally's \his IN DIRE NEED OF 2 GA OR STUDENT the VarSity Crowd and I he Notre Dame 
AVAILABLE NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2
Saturday, Feb. 28. Come and gel rowdy TIX FOR DAYTON 1111 Call KATHY at Attention: Going eastbound over CELEBRATION REGISTRATION AthletiC Dept , present 
FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES 234·2626. 
289-5026. MEGA BUCKS INVOLVED. 1950s DANCE CONTEST 
TAL 
ticut. Please call Marybe\h 41-5485 & ICE CREAM SOCIAL Need si• Dayton tickets. Will pay $$. Saturday afternoon at halftime oilhe 
w1\h good-lime Rock ·n· Roll by CAYS· March break? I need a rid& \o Connec­STARTS MONDAY I 
YES MONDAY! FOUR DAYS FROM Need ride to DelrOII·Soulhfield Call Debba •1705. Lepley, NOWI Notre Dame-IllinOis women's basket· 
weekend ol March 6. Call Dick 1484. I hear football players measure by the ball game S1gn·ups lor the dance con· HELP ME KEEP A PROMISE Need 1 yard... ll1nd that hard \o swallow II ASK A DATE BEFORE IT'S TOO LATE lest Will begin 1mmed1ately lollowmg THERE ARE ONLY 5 SEATS LEFT ON GA ticket to Dayton & St. Francis Masseuse the men's game agmst Dayton and games. Call Ed 1428. continue through \he lirSI halt of the
THE NEW JERSEY CLUB BUS FOR you know he-she·l\ wants to go
NEED RIDE TO PITTSBURGH AREA
SPRING BREAK CALL CHRIS AT 4479 CLIMB ABOARD SAILOR??? everybody wants to go to sen1or lormal. women's game Only couples may
THURS. FEB. 26 OR FRI. FEB. 27. CAN
OR KEVIN 7687 BETWEEN 6·10 PM Need Dayton GA and student lix. Call compete, but smgles can s1gn up and 
all ya golla do 1s ask I OFFER RETURN TRANSPORTATION
FOR MORE INFO Ill 8485 Bob (K Mar\ Kid) F1ordaliso. be paired w1\h a mystery partner Pr~zes 
CALL TIM 8933. 
Include Farrell's Troughs" and dinner GAY HOTLINE OPEN THURS FEB.26 You are Ihe Idol of SMC-ND women I ASK NOW I hereby retract my abus1ve personal. ASK NOW 
Need two GA tickets lor dayton. Call at Steak & Ale All contestants w111 1000·12:00 Kent •3467 ASK NOW rece1ve a free tee cream cone at the
need r1de \o chicago lor break mary 
(And you lao, Mike) I 

Iran 7992 
ACC concess1on stand. Come 1010 the WE CARE ABOUT YOU I GAY HOTLINE Need tickets lor Dayton game. Student HEY DAYTON, PUT IN GLASSER lun and cheer \helr~sh to victory Ill 
. " .. 
need a ride back to NO from the
THURS 26, 10:00-12:00 283-8659 and G.A. Call Pat a\ 3455 1!11111111
Dear Linda, 

Happy Birthday I "I care too." This is Irish Flyers Flymg Club acceptmg new 1333 NEED 2 DAYTON GA TICKETS. BIG$$$ Hello TOM BLANDII sure would like \o Need ride \o Iowa Fr~day 27th. Share 
Cleveland area \h1s Sun. March 1 Call your card. guess what your present
Call Dave al 1143 upenses. etc. Call John atl874 Need ride to Ch1cago Saturday mor­
members Student pilots welcome Call see more of you Where do you h1de?
is?...Yup. (Payable on demand)

E•I 4234 8AM-5PM 
z
nmg. Call John H1ggms at8553 or 1715. Love, Larry Available lor fall -3 & 5 bedroom 
house tn walkeng dtstance of campus
BOSTON SPRING BUS FINAL SIGNUP WE WANT GLASSER 1111 WE WANT
BOSTON II SIGNUP FOR SPRING BUS For de\a1lo, call atlet6 p.m. -232·3284

TUES MAR 3, 7-9 LaFortune Brmg $50 GLASSER 1111 WE WANT GLASSER II II
RIDERS \o UM1am1, Oh10. Leave 2·27. MAR 3, 7·9 LaFortune. $50 non-relund.
PERSONALS
deposit Bus leaves Mar 13. Round 
friday, 4:30. Call Hutch 8918. deposit required, or bring lull paymentTrip -$100. Questions?? M1ke 2836 JIM GOODE is uglier than JEFF JEF·
ot $100 lor round tr1p. Questions? Mike FERS. Jim Goode lor UMOC. A note to the mooses2836 or J1m 1528. BOSTON SPRINGWe need one housemate lor 81·82. 

Four years in Notre Dame? Why not Please call Paula Groves at287·6916 or 
NEED RIDE FOR 2 OR 4 GIRLS TO 
BUS II FLORIDA AREA, PREFERABLY FT thanks to everyone lor .their support Today there wtll be no humor The
buy a house and live almost ren\ free. Lo1s Kennedy at 3648. 
Let your equity pay your rent. Call
LAUDERDALE AREA. OVER SPRING and ktnd words concerntng my sltuatton IS grave. For weeks now,
BOSTON BUS DETAILS AT SIGNUP BREAK WILL SHARE USUAL. PLEASE miraculous acceptance to graduate rumors ongenatmg from the outsk~rts
Molls at House of Really lor details, I need a r1de \o Denver at Break. Call 
TUESDAY. LEAVES THE 13\h

289·7966 or 674-8512 evenings. John at1177 
CALL LESLIE OR MAUREEN AT 7938 school. now all i've got to dots get out of Control have warned of a final ol­
RETURNS THE 22nd. ot here (preferably w1th a degree, of lenSIVe" bemg planned by the ev1l 
Los\ coat m front ot Law School Sa\. Need e r1de to Florida. Will share the SENIOR BAR BENGAL BOUTS course)I poacher, Colonel Zero Mu I have 
SENIOR BAR 
Blue Wllh gold s1lk lining. YSL" label usual Call Bob 1049 scoop been watchmg Zero Ma,.; lor some Call Law School and leave message lor SENIOR BAR ps -special thanks to ryan, molly, lime, lor I saw I hat he had a darkness In BENGAL BOUTS 
BENGAL BOUTS

SENIOR BAR andy, and my roomies. 
John B Dougherty 283·6627 Need r~de to Rocklord, IL. on Feb. 27 MARCH 1, 4, AND 7TH. h1m I have not made mentton of tl PLEASEIII The coal has great sen· SEMI-FORMAL belore, lor I did not wish to alarm you
Will share e•penses Call Pete at1609 BETHEREIIII 
11mental value Will gladly reward lin· SEMI-FORMAL Energ1ze \he Death Star. Prepare lor But the Slluahon grows tense Zero der Need r~de to Washmgton, DC area -SEMI-FORMAL primary Ignition. Mu has gathered h1s troops 1n the
C-MONSTERS. 

can leave Wednesday afternoon. Will MARCH 1 YES SUNDAY NIGHT THIS IS YOUR WEEKLY PERSONAL Debelian sector. and IS even now summer programs· LONDON (May share dnvmg. etc. Call T J. 3207 9:00.2:00 FROM THE MOST PERSONALABLE The red-headed poacher IS closing lor mobiliZing lor \he oflenstve I had 20·June19) Travel In Ireland, Scotland, $15.00PERCOUPLE \he kiii ...The moose has only his horns w1shed that he would nor be so brash
GUYYOUALLKNOW DON'TTHINKI'D England. France ROME (June 15-July TICKETS AT SENIOR BAR lodelend h1mselt.. as to a\lemptth1s. but I lear the worst
R1de needed to S\. LoUis lor Spring FORGET VA, NO BUDDY Ill HOPE YOU 
14) Travel m France. Germany, Switzer­We have cause ye\ \o hope, however 
break Call Kevm. 1800 ALL HAVE A GOOD DAYIII rand. and Italy. Courses 1n Art, Busl· Ann Landers says: To the armless, Stroh-toling. P-W 10g· Capta1n A•e. \he creator ol Control and 
LOVE VA, 

ness and Economics. Education. Have a problem? Can't sleep? Can'\ ger: Let's talk sometime soon I source of way or ltle here, has
HELPI2 need rides \o and lrom LONG ME our Government. History, llallen and Nur· ISLAND lor spr~ng break Will share Your cranky dinner pal 
work? Can't? Killed anyone recently? found the flaw wh1ch had reduced myCons\1pa\ed? Fall down and go boo­
Sing available Organ1zftl1onal Meet1ng ellectiveness He has corrected lh1s March 10. For lnlo Call Prof A A Black 1-4414 boo? THANKS FOR THE COMPANY WHICH There was a young prep from St. Paul and agreed to rom me 1n the light 284-4948 (oll1ce) or 272·3726 (home) Who locked herself m Alumn1 Hall agamsl \he ev1l outcast. lor he has had 
dr1v1ng e•penses Call MARY BETH 4· CARE. 
Well, all you have to do is GET IS ALWAYS MOST ENJOYABLE. TIM COUNSELING I 
deatmgs with the poacher before and She was lull ol amour· knows h1m \o be an enemy of allthat1s 
WANTED Roommate to share Apt. 3B, Beh1nd lh1s locked door, 
NOTRE DAME APTS. CONTACT 287-RENEGADE COWS won't IUS\ stand 
same as 11 ever was
6234 OR oil-campus hous1ng olllce around and Ia\ anyone call \hem Sa1d she, H1s nose IS no problem at good Bossy .. 
alii" Even now, my emtssanes are ractng
OTIS IS GAO TEST 
~ LOST/FOUND l 
to the Debellan sector to make a !mal EARN EXTRA MONEY? I NEED A NEEo .flroE. ro··~l.oflu:if.. ... ~;~i~r~bi~ Girls: You can relu now! JACK bid to prevent the Impending COMPUTER EXPERTS WANT TO 
run macer 
LOST EYEGLASSES. RIMLESS. TUTOR IN PLI CALL 2126 AND LEAVE Ft. Lauderdale tor 4 girls. Will MASON no longer wants a dale tor \he bloodshed Should Ma• prove un­
area, BROWN CASE. 127 NIEUWLAND. A MESSAGE OR CALL AFTER 11 PM MARK share usual. We wouldn't mind split· Keenan S.Y.R. "I He IUS\ found out lhnchlgg In h1o resolve. \hen le\ \he he'sGAYII battle begm 
LAST THURSDAY CALL JOE 1183 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY NEXT SATURDAY! ling 1nto 2 and 2, so call if you have HOW ABOUT BREAKFAST? room lor two or lour. Ask lor LESLIE or 
I -hereby order the Moose leg1ona to LOST AT BP PARTY FRIDAY NIGHT. MARILYN MAUREEN 7936. FREE SENIOR FORMAL BID g~rd themselves lor a battle thai w111 RED PLAID SCARF PLEASE CALL FREE SENIOR FORMAL BID shake the galaxy Beware the red­
FOR SALE FREE SENIOR FORMAL BID headed poacher -he IS of the dar1<
1284 THE GREAT BOOKS -THE GREAT Los\: Am way brown allache case w1\h 
Side

MINDS -MEET FACULTV AND STU· Aloe Vero mto 1ns1de and other impor­
LOST MENS FUR-LINED LEATHER DENTS OF THE GENERAL PROGRAM SENIOR BAR RAFFLE Hope lor peace, but be at the ready 
tant papers. II found call Independent SENIOR BAR RAFFLE And lear not, tor Control watches. 

GLOVES IN BP ON JUNIOR PARENTS For Sale STANLEY KAPLAN MEDCAT OF LIBERAL STUDIES MONDAY. Cab Co. 234-0300 or 234-0932 and ask SENIOR BAR RAFFLE
WEEKEND CALL 1284 Manuals$50. Call Bnan 1647 MARCH 2, 7:30PM, GRACE PIT for Rev. Moose Control 




, 
r 
' 

Thursday, February 26, 1981 -page 12 
For Red Flash 
Irish must get'up' 
By SKIP DESJARDIN "There are only two games left at Sports Writer home, and they are both going to be good ones." 
Between periods of emotional in­A reputation precedes Saint tensity, there are inevitable periods Francis into tonight's game. The of relaxation. It is impossible to general concensus is that this is an­remain "up" at all times. other Boston University or Saint 
Between South Carolina and Mary's of California, and that is far UCLA there was LaSalle, and Notre from the truth. Dame pulled out a one-point vic­"Saint Francis plays like a com­tory. bination of LaSalle and Fairfield," 
Between North Carolina State and says Phelps. "This is another one of Virginia there was Fairfield, and those solid eastern teams that look Notre Dame pulled out a two-point toward Notre Dame all year. victory. "We saw what can happen when a 
Between Virginia and Dayton team plays like the game is the big­there will be Saint Francis. gest of their careers. Fairfield came "This is it," says Digger Phelps. very close to knocking us off." 
Fans turn on ND for visitors 
By MARK HANNUKSELA 
Sports Writer 
A year ago Tuesday, the United States hockey team won the Olympic gold medal by defeating Finland 4-2. 
A year ago Sunday, the Olympians defeated the Russian team 4-3. 
For those two weeks in February, this country was united. The group of players who were part ofthe "Miracle on Ice" were a common focal point to which we all turned for some happiness. 
We saw the same thing a month ago, when 52 Americans were released by their Iranian captors. And we saw the same thing on Sunday, when this campus united for a very big contest with the top-ranked Virginia Cavaliers. 
This campus always gets up for big games. There is no equal to a Notre Dame-UCLA showdown at the ACC. Nor is there an equal to what happened Sunday in the Rosemont Horizon. That type of fan support is what this campus is noted for. But it is fast becoming the exception rather than the rule. 
Take last Monday, for instance. I was sitting quietly in my seat in Section Three, enjoying what was a surprisingly close game between Notre Dame and Fairfield. 
Sitting next to me was a guy wearing a "Notre Dame Fightin' Irish" jersey and cheering rather boisterously for Fairfield. I didn't think too much ofit at the time. I figured this was some guy who, for some reason, made the journey from Fairfield, Conn. to South Bend, Ind. to watch his team play the Irish, and, while here, paid a visit to the infamous Notre Dame Bookstore. 
Then I noticed the guy sitting next to him. He was wearing a green and gold Alumni Hall t-shirt, and cheering just as loudly for Fairfield. The reason­ing I had used to explain why the first guy was cheering for Fairfield wasn't valid for this second guy -they don't sell Alumni Hall t-shirts in the Bookstore. Now, I sensed the mutiny. 
Recently, it seems that more and more people have begun to write about the state of the Notre Dame fan. In the Fairfield write-up in last Tuesday's Chicago Tribune, BillJauss commented that Notre Dame students apparent­ly only get up for the UCLA's, the DePaul's and the Virginia's now-a-days. He's a little late in realizing that -things have been that way in all the years I've been here. That's not really important, however. With the schedule we play, the TEAM can't even be expected to get up for the Fairfield's, the Boston's and the Saint Mary's ofCalifornia's. 
There is, however, a definite problem when your fans start cheering for the OTHER team. Why was this happening? I mean, by game's end, 50-60 percent of the student body in attendance was rooting for Fairfield. Why? 
Some expressed negative feelings toward Digger and his coaching philosophies. Some said we played so horribly that we didn't deserve to win. Some said they simply wanted to see a close ball game. (I stopped believing this last excuse when I saw people walking out ofthe ACC genuinely disap­pointed that the Stags missed their last chance to tie.) 
I have no legitimate excuses for the reaction of the student body. Their actions cannot be justified. I can conceive not going to the game. The academic pressures ofthis university, coupled with the lack ofquality teams on this season's home schedule, make that a believeable excuse. 
I can also accept attending the game, but not taking an active role in the 
cheering. As stated before, it is impossible for the team, as well as the fans, to 
be up for every game. 
But I can in no way justify this "rooting for the other team" business. If 
people are going to do that, then why bother attending the game in the first 
place? 
There's no question Notre Dame fans are spoiled. They're too used to 
winning. After sitting through that Monday night's game, I now also believe 
that Notre Dame fans are hypocrites. Sure, they root like crazy before nation­
al TV audiences, trying to live up to the MVP award they received from NBC 
three years ago. But then they turn around and do things like this. 
Two weeks ago, my 16-year-old cousin attended the UCLA game. She left that weekend, anxious to get home and tell everyone about the "Notre Dame spirit." 
"I c.ouldn't believe that place," she told me after the game. "It was so loud. You guys sure got lots a spirit." I'm glad she wasn't in the audience Monday night. I wouldn't want to ruin her impression of this place. 
It's a good thing the Fairfield game wasn't on national television either. That would have meant that fans all over the country would have found out what Notre Dame fans are really like. 
Another of those "just give me the win" teams comes into the ACC tonight. I would hope that the kind ofthing that happened last Monday won't happen again tonight. And just to make sure it doesn't, I'll let those few ofyou who are planning to make the trip over to the ACC in on a little secret: Notre Dame will be the team wearing white. 
The 16-8 record that the Red Flash .brings into tonight's contest puts them in the thick of the race in their conference, the ECAC South. They are currently in second place behind Old Dominion, the team that upset DePaul. 
"Last Saturday, they upset Cleveland State, a probable tourna­ment team," says Phelps. "They get up for the big games -and that worries me. 
"Saint Francis is the kind of team that always plays tough. They never get blown out of a game, and those teams bother me." 
Senior center Jim Schoen (6-9, 230 pounds) leads a team that returns five starters from last season. The leading rebounder in the East last year, Schoen is pulling balls off the glass at a rate of 11 per game this year. 
·· Point guard Bob Convey will run the offensive show for the Red Flash. The six-foot guard is the team's leading scorer, averaging just under 1 5 points a game. 
Two more seniors will work in the 
front court for third-year coach 
Dave Magarity. Charlie Kates and 
Bob Powell are consistent scorers 
and good shooters. Combined, they 
average 24 points and over 14 
rebounds in every Saint Francis 
game. 
The only junior among the start· 
ing five, swingman Anthony Wash­

ington, utilizes a good outside shot · 
to average nearly 11 points per 
game. 
"Saint Francis is a good scoring 
team," says Phelps. "They have five 
players who score consistently in 
double-figures, so you have to con­
centrate on playing good defense 
against all of them. They can all put 
the ball in the hoop." 
Kates and Schoen became l ,000 
See ST. F., page4 


Jenny Klauke 

The savior is here 
At first glance, Jenny Klauke hardly looks like a bas­ketball savior. Standing 5-9 1/2, she doesn't tower above her teammates on the Notre Dame women's bas­ketball squad. 
But when the Irish decided to leapfrog from AlAW Division III to Division I in a single season, and lured one of the top coaches in the nation to Notre Dame, somebody had to be the knight on the white horse. And as one of the first two women ever to receive athletic grants-in-aid at Notre Dame, Klauke was a prime suspect. 
When teammate MaryJoan Forbes, the other scholar­ship athlete, dislocated her knee before the season opened, the burden fell squarely on Klauke. 
It wasn't quite the Second Coming. 
Whether or not she could walk on water wasn't the issue -the hardwood of the basketball court posed enough ofa challenge. Klauke passed when she should have shot, shot when she should have passed, and in general resembled a business major trying to pass a mechanics exam. 
She got about the same results. After opening the season alongside Maggie Lally in the starting backcourt, Klauke soon found herself occupying the best seat in the house at tip-off. 
Her wide-open, freewheeling style of play only confused her teammates and frus .trated her coaches. More often than not, when she tried to put the ball be­hind her back, it wound up behind the third row. Watching Klauke operate in the midst of Notre Dame coach Mary DiStanislao's structured offense was akin to listening to Springsteen played on a tuba. 
A Christmas bout with tonsilitis did little to speed her 
adjustment to the system, and when Klauke did return 
to the lineup, it was at a different position. When Coach 
Mary DiStanislao's frontline was decimated, she moved 
her savior to forward. 

At first, any change was barely noticeable. Klauke still seem.ed to think that a one-on-four fastbreak was a good scoring opportunity, much to the chagrin of DiStanis­

lao. Defense was still something other people did. 
Thank God for Goshen. 
The Maple Leafs, a non-descript Division III school, 
happened to wander into the Athletic and Convocation Center just after South Carolina blew out with its 124­48 prize. Goshen staggered out of the ACC with an 86­44 loss, and 22 ofthose points toJenny Klauke. 
Goshen is hardly among the nation's elite in women's basketball, but it had taken Klauke a long time to learn that you have to walk before you can run. The Maple Leafs happened to remind her just how fast she could run. 
Since then, Klauke has run through some pretty fair 
opposition. In its last four games, Notre Dame has lost to 
Ball State, St.Joseph's, Michigan and Virginia. Klauke has 
been the leading Irish scorer in each of those games, 
averaging 20.5 points and 7.5 rebounds while playing 
just under 25 minutes per contest. 
"Jenny has begun to play up to her capabilities," says 
DiStanislao. "At the beginning ofthe season, people had 
very high expectations of her. as if she could come in 
and turn the program around by herself. As a result, she 
tried to do too many things. Now, though, she's playing 
intelligently, and the results have been fantastic." 
Probably the most encouraging aspect of Klauke's surge is that her strong play has come against top-notch competition, not Division II and III patsies. 
As Notre Dame's 9-13 record attests, Jenny Klauke 
isn't ready to walk on water. But nobody has to throw 
her a life preserver, either. 





