

VOL XV, NO. 73 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, JANUARY 20,1981 
Another lioldup 
•
Hostages remam in Iran 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Despite an announced agreement on their release, 52 American hostages remained in Iran early today, and Iran's chief negotiator said his government would set a deadline for 
U.S. banks to transfer frozen Iranian assets to the Bank ofEngland. 
"If this Is not done, harsher deci· sions will definitely be made," Ex­ecutive Affairs Minister Behzad Nabavl said In a recorded interview broadcast by Tehran Radio early this morning. 
The White House said early today that negotiations were continuing. Nabavi said he had asked the Al­gerian delegation in Tehran for a meeting and would communicate the deadline to it. 
The broadcast gave no indication of the deadline. But White House press secretaryJody Powell warned Iran that the incoming Reagan ad­ministration would be bound by the hostage agreement only if the captive Americans were released before Ronald Reagan took office at noon. 
Iran's official Pars news agency quoted Nabavi yesterday as saying 
U.S. banks submitted an 11-page ap· pendix on future Iranian financial 
Students express joy after picking up their tickets for the long awaited Springsteen concert. Tickets may be picked up all week at the Student Union ticket officefrom 9 to 5. (photo by Greg Maurer) 
~~Barbariansn 

Crisis sparkspatriotism 
WASHINGTON (AP) For months, Iran toyed with a nation humiliated but unwilling to abandon its countrymen and women. 
Finally, the United States called an end to the game -Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan played the in· auguration card. 
Deal with me, Cartt•r said, or deal with Reagan. 
"Barbarians!" Reagan said simply. 
The full story of this last climactic 
Wt'l'k has yet to be told. But it seems 
dear that the outgoing administra­
tion ofCarter and the incoming one 
of Reagan played out the good cop­
bad cop scam ofTV police grillings. 
For '52 Ameicans held for ransom and for Jimmy Carter, a hostage too, the t·nd neared simultaneously. Car­ter promised to give back what had been Iran's, billions in seized assets, in exchange for what had been 
35victims 
Bangkokflu ails students 
By MARY FRAN CALLAHAN 
SeniorCopy Editor 
Over 35 students have checked Into the Infirmary within the last week exhibiting symptoms of the Bangkok flu. 
The flu, which doctors presume Is 
caused  by  a  virus,  causes  fevers,  
chills,  throat  discomfort,  body  
aches,  coughs  and  stuffy  noses,  

according to Dr. Robert Thompson ofthe Infirmary. 
Thomp110n attributed the high In­cidence of the virus to the prevalence of the flu In many major cities during the month of Decem­ber. 
"These folks are coming back from their different geographical regions after break. We get them from all ends of the earth," the doc­tor said. 
. . the best medicine for the Bangkokflu is preventive ...' 
The virus, which is highly con­tagious, is transferred by respiratory functions. The worst phase ofthe flu lasts from three to five days. 
America's. 
All along, since Nov. 4, 1979, Car­ter had insisted that his course was right. But many throughout the humiliated land had predicted those Americans would never make it out in one piece. 

Jan. 16, 1979, is a good place to begin the story of how the United States, the superpower, became hostage to a band of fanatics and a 78-year-old Moslem ascetic whose name Ayatollah Ruhollah Reza Pahlavi fled the land he and his father before him had ruled almost continuously since 1925. He flut­tered, an international butterfly, to Egypt, Morocco, the Bahamas, final­ly to Mexico. Then after keeping st:cret his cancer of the lymph glands for six years -the shah fell 
Khomeini  - was  to  become  an  
American epithet.  
On  that  day,  Shah  Mohammad  

ill. He needed immediate surgery. 
The Carter administation, respecting Iran's geographic sig­nificance and its oil, passed the word that the shah was not welcome in the United States. 
But the shah had powerful friends 
- Henry  Kissinger  and  banker  
David  Rockefeller  - and  after  a  
week  of  quiet  debate,  Carter  

decided it would be inhumane not to open the door. Iranian Foreign Minister lbraiim 
See DEAL, page4 
Thompson said an accompanying cough may last up to two weeks. The doctor encouraged students with the virus' syinptons to report to the Infirmary so they may be treated with antibiotics. 
Thompson emphasized that the best medicine for the Bangkok flu Is preventive; students should get ad­ditional rest, drink fluids and take vitamin C Ifthey wish, according to the doctor. He added that students should not share food or drinking glasses. 
Due to the Bangkok flu, Mis­hawaka's Marian High School closed last Thursday with a record number ofabsentees. 

claims "to make it binding on Iran to drop any further claims beyond the approximately S8 billion which are to be escrowed" in the British central bank. 
"Even with the utmost optimism, this could only be viewed as an un­derhanded maneuver for delaying the final solution of the problem, especially after the U.S. president had issued an order for releasing Iran's assets in the U.S. banks," Nabavi said. He blamed the U.S. banks "for needlessly dragging out the issue." 
A White House official and two 
U.S. bankers said they did not know what Iran was talking about. In New York, Citibank spokesman John ). Maloney said the 11-page appendix was part of the agreement among Iran, Algeria and the United States 

A busy day; Reagan assumes highest role 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The nation's capital was dressed up and primed yesterday to celebrate two history-making events: the end of the hostage drama and the beginningofRonald Reagan's term as presi­dent ofthe United States. 
For the 39th president, Jimmy Carter, the heralded return of 52 countrymen brought suspense, excitement and some uplift to his last 
An unforeseen delay in that operation also brought Carter his 

I first job after he gives up the reins of government today: Reagan will send him to Wiesbaden, West Ger­many, as the official representative of the United States to greet the freed captives. 
Carter had hoped to make that trip as president but the delay made that untenable. There would not be time to make the trip and stlll be at the Capitol at noon today to watch his successor's swearing­ln. 
For Reagan, the incoming 40th president, the dramatic conclusion to the 14-month national humilia· tion meant a secondary role at a time when the spotlight should be his. He didn't seem to mind. 
"All of us are encouraged but still have our fingers crossed," he said. 
Would he go himself? "I don't think that would be ap· proprlate," Reagan said. 
It was announced that the new president will ask some of the Car­ter administration officials in­volved In the hostage negotiations 

(photo courtesy of Warner to stay on the job to help bridge Bros., N.D. Archives) the two administrations. 
The Reagans will begin their day today at services In St. John's Epis­copal Church -nicknamed the Church of the Presidents -across Lafayette Square from the White House. 
Reagan spent most of yesterday In conferences: first on national security, then on the economy and finally, with his prospective Cabinet. 
As the more than 100,000 visitors to Washington continued their celebrations ofReagan's ascendancy, the president-elect's only public function was a star-studded televised evening gala at Capital Centre. 
The Reagans flew by helicopter to the arena, about 15 miles from downtown, for the show directed by Frank Sinatra, with Johnny Car­son as host. 
Reagan will play a more central role when, today at noon, on the Capitol steps with the marble monuments ofAmerican government as a grand vista before him, Reagan recites the 35-word oath by which he takes office. 
Reagan, a conservative Republican, at 69will be the oldest man ever to become president, the first divorced man and the first actor. 
(A related story appears onpage5.) 
signed early yesterday. 
"The banks were not party to it and had no part in its drafting," said Maloney. "It is an agreement among the governments, and we believe the administration will clarify that it is in no way Intended to force Iran to drop any rightful claims," he said. 
One Iranian official in Tehran said the problem was minor and the hostages could be released "any mo­ment," ending their 14-month or· deal. 
He said the crews of two Algerian Boeing 727s had returned to their hotels for the night and the hostages were not at the airport. He said a third plane, a smaller Gulfstream, also was part ofthe Algerian group of aircraft, but he did not know who 
See HOSTAGES, page4 



r--------------------------------­



News Brie 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
'lb.e National Archives refused yesterday to turn over a tape log subpoenaed for a Senate inquiry in the hearings of Secretary of State-designate Alexander M. Haig. upholding former president Richard Nixon's plea. Archivist Robert M.Waner told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee he rejected most of Nixon's 

A carefully documented, front-page story in Sunday's lawyers' arguments, but concluded the courts would not uphold the 
Chicago Tribune confirmed what Joe Average Tax­Senate subpoena. "I suspect that I will never again during my tenure 
payer has known since the beginning of time -the agonize over a decision as much as I have over this one," Warner told 
government is squandering billions oftax dollars yearly the: committee of his decision to reject the committee's request. The 
on fraud, unnecessary studies, theft, and basic govern­committee subpoenaed the log of taped conversations between 
ment excesses. In fact, The Tribune estimated the mini­
mum waste at 151 billion.
Nixon and Haig to continue its inquiry into Haig's conduct in helping 
Nixon defend against Watergate allegations and HouseJudiciary Com­

One especially relevant study, conducted by the mittee impeachment proceedings in the early 1970s. The 680-page 
Department ofTransportation, revealed the remarkable log includes detailed notes on 338 conversations between Haig and 
fact that, should guerilla warfare break out in the year 2025, the U.S. would have a need for additional transit ingly passed on the same referendum vote that defeatedNixon May 4 toJuly 12, 1973, shortly after Haig became Nixon's chief 
of staff Warner concluded, essentially, that the Foreign Relations 

police. The cost ofthis gem was a cool $225,000. a pay raise for the state legislature. This proposition, Committee's case for its subpoena is even weaker than that of the 
This laughable situation is no laughing matter. Rat­shaped after Jarvis', will eventually reduce property Senate committee that probed Watergate. The Watergate committee 
her, it is a tragedy that is having far-reaching effects on taxes to 2.5 percent of their assessed value -a large lost its court battle over a similar subpoena -AP 
taxpayers everywhere: people who are feeling the reduction for residents of a state called "Taxachusetts" economic cmnch and are simply fed up. Their solution by many. to the problem is usually drastic, such as with Howard The state, which lacked any kind of budget surplus 
Jarvis' tax-cutting Proposition 13. whatsoever, felt the pangs of the reform from the very Proposition 13 was a novel idea when it was first in­moment of its passage. Schools were closed, teachers troduced over three years ago. It appealed to taxpayers with over ten years ofcontinuous service were laid off, 
Environmental Protection Agency 

who were sick of paying more than they could afford, the number of state-funded parks and recreation jobsmonitoring stations in the western United States have detected low and who thought that by cutting taxes the government for students were halved, and then reduced still further. 
levels of airborne radioactivity, apparently from a Chinese nuclear would be forced to spend less. Critics of the plan Library hours were slashed, and a hiring freeze was im­test, an EPA official says. "We are seeinglow levels offission activity in predictedcalamity after calamity would result: pub! i c mediately implemented for city employees. 

our samples from the western United States," Charles Porter of the services would be cut in One does not have to be aEPA's lab here said Sunday. Porter said the fallout probably came from 

half, welfare programs 
financial wizard to realizean Oct. 16 Chinese nuclear test. The blast produced relatively high 
slashed, schools closed...the that these are not thelevels of atmospheric radiation that was swept around the world by 
list goes on. "improvements" that thewinds. Porter said the EPA will ask its monitoring stations across the 
California, the test case in voters had in mind. Thecountry to make extra checks ofrain water, air, and milk. -AP 
this instance, was fortunate· government is being vin­to have a budget surplus of dictive and the average S6.8 billion at the outset. citizen can do nothing about Now, three years later, the it. Tax reforms that leave the surplus has been eroded to power of money allocationThe planet Hesburgh? A minor planet, discovered zilch, and California appears to an out-size bureaucracyMay 3, 1951, at the Goethe Link Observatory at Indiana University, to be on its way down deficit do not appear to be a viable was named in honor of the president ofthe University ofNotre Dame creek. The reform cut back alternative for thesince 1952, Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C. The naming by the Inter­library hours and school financially-pinchednational Astronomical Union is the result ofa recommendation made days to the point where American. It is too easy for alast fall by~ Frank K. Edmondson of Indiana's Department of some high school seniors committee to approve manyAstronomy. Hesburgh, the planet, was listed for the first time this will not qualify for college. proposals as a compromise,January in the Minor Planet Circulars which cited Hesburgh, the State officials say that further and the tit-for-tat politicspriest, for his "extraordinary record ofpublic service in areas ranging cuts are necessary, but that fostered by our systemfrom the humanitarian to the technical and scientific." "During his 12 they have run out of "fat" merely serves to enhance years as a member of the National Science Board," the circular read, and are "into the bone." the concept of governmen­"he played a very important role in the founding ofboth the Kitt Peak Raises for California state employees are merely tal patronage. 
National Observatory and the Cerro Tololo Interamerican Obser­"token" for fiscal 1981, and do not even approach infla­Human nature dictates that it is necessary to providevatory. His support for the Observatory during the 1964 period of tion levels. State funded projects, and funds for schools, the money-spenders with some initiative for reducinginfiation in Chile was decisive." -The Observer jails and parks have been pared to the bare essentials, their expenditures. Also, the method oftaxation should and then reduced even more to fit budget restrictions. be scrutinized. A broad-based tax plan, with revenue 

Through all this, Jarvis insists that there is no reason drawn from more diverse areas, would be less painful for alarm. He called the government "vindictive as hell" for the masses. In addition, small fees could be levied for for cutting back on services, rather than reducing government services that are now provided free-of­
Work crewswere workingto clean up the debris 

spending excesses. charge. And some services, like garbage and snow ofConrail train derailment in New York City that occurred late yester­
The ideal behind this sentiment -that people actual­removal, could be cut back to save a school, if neces­day afternoon. No one was injured, according to initial reports, but 
ly have some control over the government -is a noble sary.about 32 cars went offthe track at a grade crossing just west ofNorth 
one, though dubious at best. The fact is that legislators The most distressing factor in this case is that Jarvis' Manchester. Conrail spokesmen said the cause of the derailment was 
are tired ofbeing told what to do -however, failing to claim that the government is vindictive appears to be not known and no damage estimates were immediately available. 
remember that they are public servants. They have on target. When necessary programs are scrapped and Crews managed to get about eight cars back on the track by last night, enjoyed almost complete freedom to spend, spend, the budget goes into the red, it would be reassuring to but company spokesmen said the remaining 24 or so cars were spend for so long that they have forgotten how to say think that at least we were all in this together. But, face destroyed in the mishap. The cars that derailed were empty tankers 
no. Uke the "poor little rich kid" with the unlimited it. The three-martini lunch lives on, and somewhere and pumpers, and flat cars carrying lumber. Spokesmen at the scene 
allowance, they are accustomed to getting their way there is probably a study being initiated that is testingsaid the accident was expected to be cleaned up by 8 am. Tuesday. ­
when it comes to monetary output. the effect of abstract art on a chicken's ability to lay
AP 

Nowhere was this more evident recently than in Mas­eggs. sachusetts, where Proposition 2 1/2 was overwhelm-After ail, it's Lnly money. 
Legal body stimulants that were advertised in the American University campus newspaper may result in a conflict be­tween the paper and university administrators over the problems of 

e-The_Ohs.etY-er_ Design Editor .......... Ryan Ver Berkmoes Design Assistants ............... Maura Murphy Rich Fischer, Rohan Bottei Layout Staff.......................... Vince TiUman Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor ........................... Margie Brassil Copy Editor .............................. Pam Degnan Features Layout.................... MoUy Woulfe Sports Copy Editor .............. Beth Huffman Typists ............................ Marilyn Broderick John Higgins Systems COntrol ................... Tim Debell us ND Day Editor ......................... Lynne Daley SMC Day Editor ....................... Cece Baliles Pbotograpber .......................... Greg Maurer  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is8ublished by the students of Notre arne and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P. 0. Box a, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  

VOLUNTEERS: 
student newspaper advertising. According to a spokesman for student life at American, univeristy officials objected recently when, the Eagle, ran an ad for "legal body stimulants" beingsold by an entrepreneur on Washington-area campuses. The ad was placed by a student who ex­


Don't forget
plained that the drugs, sold in capsule and pill form, contained only over-the-counter materials. The drugs were intended for use as stimulants, and those involved in the placement ofthe ad hoped sales would boom during exam times. "Just because something isn't illegal 


sign up for 
to sell doesn't mean it's been declared a safe drug," said University officials. "We were especially concerned because the drugs were being sold in large lots -like 1,000 pills at a time." Student health officials said the pills could prove harmful to students who were 


NSHP Tutoring
taking other medicine at the same time or had a condition, like diabetes, ofwhich they weren't aware. There is further concern over the legal responsibility for such an ad in that, accordingto officials, the "worst possible case could result in a criminal suit against the Univer­sity and or the paper if a student was harmed by the drugs. -The 

Today and tomorrow
Observer 
60 percent chance of rain mixed with snow 
~oday, then changing to snowflurries before ending this evening. High m the low to mid 30s. Low tonight in the mid 20s. Cloudy and mild tomorrow. High in the mid 30s. -AP 


A current member ofthe N.D. cheering squad, Shelley Obermiller. See related story at right. (photo byjohn Macor)  mum account required. The major portion ofthe squad's money comes from their sales of various bumper  concerning travel arrangements. The squad flew to all games with the team last year, and were Invited to  join the squad, Pasley is encouraged by the ability of the new members, and said, "the transition with the  
do  so  again  this  year  by Joseph  turnover will be fine; we have good  
O'Brien, assistant athletic director  people." The new squad has already  

and business manager. However, begun cheering this semester. 
For general aviation 
Join the late nightjet set 
And earn some
Students' design wins award 
money for your fun 
ByJEFF CHOPIN four passengers and two more by ad­aircraft. The team estimated the to· News Staff ding fold-down seats, is described as tal cost of the aircraft at 1469,000. a high-performance, gneral aviation The electronics used In the comple­
Ten Notre Dame students have aircraft, developed to provide rapid tion of the aircraft was valued at Becomean Observer been awarded the third place honor transit for business and personal use. U 20,000. Some of the electronics for the 1979-80 Bendix Design It has a cruise speed of 335 knots, include a computer which would layout person. Competition of a general aviation gets 20 statute miles per gallon, and control the gas flow and make the turboliln airplane, It was announced has a range of I,000 nautical miles. already efficient turbofan engineby the American Institute of 
even more efficient.The Breeze,ln Aeronautics and Astronautics. The Notre Dame designers are 
CallJohn at8661.
short, will appeal to private in­The Notre Dame seniors who 1980 graduates: Brian Wilcox, team 
dividuals as well as to money con­designed Tbe Breeze were among 2 5 leader, Gregory Sebold, Robert Ben­scious business firms and would university student groups submit· nett, Robert Zehentner,John Kasalo, 
help expand general aviation into tlng 30 final design reports. This Is Kurt Weber, Michael Hogan, Mark the fast-paced world once the third year that Notre Dame stu­
Ferring, Michael Rietz and F.J. Bros­THE ND STUDENT UNION AND 
dominated by Learjets and commer­
nan. These students logged more

dents have participated in the con­cial airlines. There are no plans as of SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS PROUDLY PRESENTS test, having received honorable than 1000 hours in the design 
·.... :.:'1:
yet to manulilcture the airplane. 
mention the past two years. This ac­project. Robert C. Nelson, associate In the spring of 1981, Brian Wil­
hievement is noteworthy in that the professor ofaerospace and mechani­'ill


BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN
cox and a few of the student desig·students designed the model In one cal engineering, served as lilculty ad­ners will attempt to fly an aircraft :1> semester, whereas most of the other visor. 
they are presently building in the 
:z::= ::z:
groups used two semesters in Besides working on the overall . Notre Dame Aerospace building.
compiling their designs. 
c:c: ~ 
design of the aircraft, the students 1 The aircraft will b_e powered by a go· Stringent specifications were re· also concentrated on the cart engine and will be about four­ca quired for the designs, based on per­
.,.._____________,...___________,
manufacturing and cost of the teen feet long. 
formance, stability and control, 
1--~ 
structure, crew and passenger life .....,
L.l..l 

support, cockpit design, environ­

L.l..l

mental control system, and main­
RIVER CITY RECORDS c=: \ 
tenance. Judging was performed by 
20 design engineers from the Boeing Northern Indiana's Largest S~lectlon 1--~ t 
V)

Company. 

ofAlbums 8c Tapes and Lowest Pric.esl 
The Breeze, which accomodates 
--t
/Why pay more a! the malls? "" 

L.l..l .~ ::a

.., ....., 
1
L.l.l 


:c --t ~
HSA 
"""





$1.00 OFF! 
t-

any regular album or tape 
1
~

Need a group to play 
purchase with this coupon. llmll 1 per person. Expires 
:z:­

at your special activity? 
IJAN. 31, 1981 


:z::= ::::z: 
Need a great PA or music 
• Open until 10:00 every nlgl'\t. 
IIICI: .:::. reproduction system like 
e NO/SMC checks cashed up to $20.00 over purch'ase amount. ' 
no other? 


• Record crates available. 
MONDAY, JANUARY 26th, 8:00 P.M.
We have the equipment, 
NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC & CONVOCATION CENTER
RIVER CITY RECORDS
personnel, prices and 
ALL SEATS RESERVED $11.00 -$1 0.50 -$10.00
50970 u.s. 31 North 

Tickets on sale now at: A.C.C. Box Office; Robertson's, South Bend & Concord
references giving you 3 miles from campus 
Mall; First Bank, Main Branch; St. Joe Bank, Main Branch; Elkhart Truth;
next to Ars SUpermarketsatisfaction! 
Suspended Chord, Elkhart; all three River City Outlets including Michigan City; Record Land, Benton Harbor; JR's, LaPorte; Butterfly, Warsaw; Carma and
255-6100 
Passtime in Fort Wayne.



L-------~!~~~-----· 
The Observer -from page· 1 Tuesday, January 20, 1981 -page 4 

The rigors of higher education obviously have not prevented everyonefrom enjoying winter. (photo by Greg Maurer) 
• • .Hostages 
On Nov. 4, 1979, hundreds of Iranians chanting, "Khomeini Struggles, Carter Trembles," sf'· 1.ed the U.S. Embassy -and the hostages. 
For months, itter exchanges see ­sawed across two worlds. Ramsey Clark makes a futile trip. Iranian stu­dents seize the Statue ofLiberty. Car­ter rules out an apology. Khomeini denounces "the great Satan, America." The United States seizes billions of Iranian assets. Carter or­ders theJustice Department to inter­view 50,000 Iranian students in the United States and throw out those with invalid papers. The World Court rules against Iran. 
Early the morning of April 25, 1980, the hostages had foundered because of equipment malfunction and the subsequent collision of a helicopter and a cargo plane in the Iranian desert. 
America's single attempt to fight 
back had failed. 
In the autumn of an election year, Ronald Reagan sensed victory but feared one twist: It became known as the October surprise. His fear took on substance when Khomeini announced a conciliatory four-point plan to permit the hostages to go free. Carter said efforts to free the captives were underway daily, "directed by me." 
Two days before the election,:()n a Sunday when rumors ofthe capti~es' imminent release swept the nation, Iran's parliament approved terms for making that freedom possible. With all the world expecting an end-of­crisis announcement, Carter went on television to say only that the end appeared near. i 
Reagan's campaign plane was in the air at the time and landing was delayed so radios could pick up the president's words. Reagan didn't say so at the time, but his advisers told him he had won the White House that day. 
Reagan's victory changed the equation in America It was now in the interest of both Carter and Reagan to free the hostages before Reagan's inauguration. And they played events to make it in Iran's in­terest. 
Carter sent word through the Al­gerians that he was willing to swap Iranian assets -desperately needed by Tehran to finance its war with Iraq -for the hostages. 
Iran showed a flicker of interest. Deputy Secretary of State Warren Christopher flew to Algiers to con­sult with the intermediaries and in­troduced a new element: If agreement was not reached by Jan. 16, -the Carter administration would turn talks over to thhhhhhhhhhhhhhh 
Reagan had already tossed his threatening "barbarian" ·epithet at the Iranians, and his team hinted its approach would be tougher than Carter'S. 
Iran now had a reason to settle. Teams of bankers joined teams of diplomats to work out the compl­icated details. Ordinary citizens were bewildered by the transac­tions: a billion from here, a billion to tere. But they coud uderstand one thing. 
The hostages were coming home. America's humiliation was at an end. 

Algerian go-betweens that billions of dollars in frozen Iranian assets had been transferred to the Bank of England in exchange for the hostages. A U.S. official said that Iran had not completed arrangements with the British bank. 
Another U.S. official said a con­troversy had arisen over Iranian demands for assurance that ifany of its frozen assets turned up in the future they would be delivered, with interest, to Iran. "It is not insur­mountable, but the whole package is 
Continuedfrom page 1 
Yazdi was told. He said the Iranian people would react "negatively." 
On Oct. 22, 1979, as surgeons in a New York hospital removed the shah's gallbladder, 150 demonstrators outside waved ban­ners, insisting, "A peaceful death is too good for the shah." 
A week later, Radio Tehran called the treatment a fraudulent trick to protect "the arch executioner and· hangman." 
not in place," the State Department official said. 
The delays forced President Car­ter to abandon a plan to fly to West Germany to greet the hostages in the final hours ofhis presidency. 
A Tehran radio commentary sug­gested that in a fmal political snub to. Carter, the Iranians were delaying the release to deprive Carter of a chance to greet them as president. 
There were conflicting reports 
See HOSTAGES, page 5 
.Deal 

. 
•I 
Conttnuedfrompage 1 

would be flying on which plane. 
A group of visiting Algerian doc­tors and nurses who examined the hostages completed their work, Pars said. A source at their hotel reported the medical group had checked out. · According to Pars, Nabavi said the Iranian government "severly con­demned this subterfuge by the U.S. banks and wishes to open the minds of the peoples of the world, and especially the minds of the American public to this fact." 
He said that under the terms ofthe agreement reached earlier, the American banks had to transfer Iran's assets to the Bank of England before the hostages could be released. 
But at midnight Tehran time (3:30 

p.m. EST) "no news had been received of this transfer," Nabavi said. 
The chief Iranian negotiator said the Algerian intermediaries "are now negotiating with U.S. govern­ment representatives in Algiers and· the Algerian government fully sup­ported Iran's stand on this issue." 
Iranian bank officials were reported meeting on the final problems standing in the way of the hostages' flight to freedom. 
Iran said it awaited word from the 






e Observer Tuesday, january 20, 1981 -page 5 

arleycelebrates''Pop''week Tonight 
Dame's most outstanding student each class organizes a special ac­athletes In the 19th century. He tivity. The film "Where Angels Go arrived at Notre Dame in 1897, Trouble Follows" will be shown on Farlc=y Hall Is celebrating Its an­residing In Brownson Hall. Farley Wednesday night. Thursday night ual "Pop Farky" week, which earned nine letters as an under­will be "Farley Night at the Nazz." 



LIVE BAND
January 18 and climaxes graduate, four In both football and '!farley Night will be a talent show 
I

rday, January 24, with the baseball, and one In track. for Farley residents only" Clemency ••·v......... Your Roommate" dance. Farley was rector ofCorby, Walsh, said. I The tradition began In 1976, and Sorin Halls at Notre Dame In the I 
Farley Hall held a party In early 20th century. He knew each On Friday night there will be a hall I Let it Rock! r of the tOOth birthday of Fr. student In Sorin personally, and dinner in f •.JJne. "There will be more I Farley, for whom the hall was referred to each of them as one of skits and surprises at the dinner," I 
.,,.,m1cu In 1947. "The party was such "my boys" -thus earning him the Clemency added. I success that the= celebration was nickname of'Pop' Farley. I I.._____________________l_l_l_l_l_•il lextc:ndled Into a weeklong series of In 1937, Farley suffered a The week is highlighted with the activities," according to Katie paralytic stroke which necessitated "Screw Your Roommate" dance on 
•c:tefinertcv, 
Pop Farley commls­the amputation of his right leg. He Saturday. The theme for the dance 

•"''UII<:a:. 
"We have expanded the ac­diedonJanuary I, 1939. will be "They're Playing Our Song." vltles this yc=ar to unify the dorm "Pop Farley" week began Sunday Each section In the hall will decorate 


create spirit." with a mass celebrated by Fr. Hes­in correspondence with a chosen Farley •was one of Notre burgh. Today Is Class Day, where song title. 
'Brien remembers Reagan 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP)--Knute Rockne was counting on them to "win one for the Gipper." And he says the voters won't be sorry they did. 
"Rockne" in this case Is veteran actor Pat O'Brien, who portrayed the legendary Notre Dame football coach 40 years ago In the movie, "Knute Rockne: all-American." 
Playing "the Glpper," 1917-20 football star George Gipp, was a young actor named Ronald Reagan. 
"It think he'll be a magnlficant president," O'Brien said via telephone from his suburban Los An­geles home. 
O'Brien, now 81 and still in show business, Interrupted a trip to his pool to reminisce about the movie star of yesteryear who is today's president. 
"I recommended him for the part of the Gipper," O'Brien recalled. "He never forgot that." 
O'Brien, more established then in Hollywood, was the star of the Rockne film, with top billing, but playing "the Gippl·r" was an impor­tant step in Reagan's career. 
Multitudes of movie fans were to hear Reagan, portraying a dying Gc=orge Gipp, whisper: 
"I've got to go. Rock ... But it's all right ... I'm not afraid :.. Sometimes, Rock -when the team's up against it -when things arc wrong and the breaks arc beating the boys -tell them w go in there with all they've got and win just one for the Gipper. 
"I don't know where I'll be then, 
Rock. But I'll know about it -and 
I'll be happy." 
legend, enhanced by the movie, 
has it that Rockne, the real Rockne, 
used a dramatic "win-one-for-the-
The Observer 
News Dept. 
Needs 
Day Editors Sun. -Thurs. 

12:30­4:30pm 
A Paid PtJsition Call Tom~ 8661 
• • .Hostages 
Continuedfrom page 4 
throughout the day from Tehran air­port on movement of the hostages and the airport was closed to repor­ters. 
State Department spokesman John Trattner said he had no con­firmation the hostages were at the airport and it was uncertain when Iran would free the Americans held captive for 444 days by today. 
The long drama seemed near a climax when Carter announced before dawn yesterday in the last full day of his presidency that an agree­ment had been reached and that he believed it would lead to "the freedom ofour American hostages." 
But the hours dragged on and Iran's top hostage negotiator said the complex financial arrangements had not been completed. 


Contact Capt. Grottrich (283-6635) For More Information 
Gateway to a great way of life. 
In Washington, an official said Iran had not activated the account in Britian and "there are stll minor technical problems that have to be resolved." He said while the problem "may appear to be minor, any problems that hold up the actual release of the hostages are serious." 
The hostages were expected to fly to Algiers and then on to a U.S. Air Force hospital In Wiesbaden, West Germany, a journey of some 4,000 miles that could take more than 10 hours. 
Countries around the world greeted news of an agreement with relief that the long ordeal for the hostages was ending and with hope that Iran's international isolation milzht be eased. 

ATTENTIONJUNIOR CLASS Seating for President's Dinner Junior Parent's Weekend LaFortune Main Lounge Thurs., jan. 22,7-10 p.m. Fri., jan. 23,6-9 p.m. 
For Seating Arrangemen~s the Following In­formation Is Necessary: 
1 )Each person may bring 3 ID's total (including his own)· 
2)Parents' full names and home addresses will be required for each student ID. 
3) Number ofpeople attending per family. 
For those wishing to sit together involving more than one 1 table, there must be one representative per table to make seating arrangements. 
We will not sign up anyone who does not have the above in­formation or who has not returned reservations for the Presi­. dent's Dinner. 
Maximum Seating PerTable: 9 

Gipper" halftime plea to spur Notre Dame to a 1928 win oer Army. 
"He (Reagan) was always politi­cally minded as a young man" O'Bren recalled. "I wouldn't be surprised If he had something like that (the presidency) In the back of is mind even then." 
Back then was before "he changed" from being "a liberal and a Democrat." 

Never-changing Reagan charac­teristics, said O'Brien, are "his charm and charisma," handy for a president as well as an actor. 
"I think it takes more than that to be a good president," O'Brien added, and he thinks Reagan will demonstrate presidential ablllty that "willsurprise a lot ofhis detractors." 




Tuesday, january 20, 1981 -page 6









Editorials 

inmybetl? 
\ ··. .. . . -I .. :.;·:'.. ::::···::.··. . ···.:·.··· 
'·We reported in yesterday's edition that seve . ondr~di~ollars > worth of stereo equipment was stolen fr9m Sorin Hall over break. While dorm vandalism is nothing new, the incident at Sorin wall 
notable because. in the course of thejnvestigation to unr~vel the crime, Sorin Rector Fr. David Porterfield revealed that he allowed members of a high school basketball te~m to remain in several Sorin rooms, the same rooms in which Sorinites had left their valuables while away for Christmas vacation. • 
The purpose of this editorial is not to suggest complicity on behalf. of the visitors to Sorin in the ca~e of this crime.. The Observer is making no accusations regarding who committed the theft. What we do question is a rector's right to allow, even discriminately, someone to stay in a student's room without the student's.consent and with full access to whatever the student has left behind in the 
room. A rector is not a hotel-keeper. and as such has no right to put up a 
"vacancy" sign for any reason. According to Fr. Michael Heppen it has not been University housing policy to allow non-students to reside in the residence halls over br:eak. Heppen says that Porter-1 field's decision to allow non-students to stay in Sorin was an "exception." The.Observer challenges both Heppen and Porterfield to show why such an exception was made and, in effect, has been supported by the Administration as Porterfield has been in no way 
been reprimanded. 

But the larger question here is one of student rights. Had there been no thefts in Sorin over' break, the fact that non-students were given direct access to student property with the backing ofa rector might never have come to light. One is compeUed to .a~kif other 
rectors in· the past have been "renting" out students' rooms, but have never been forced to admit it since no thefts (related or unr­ela'ted to non-students in students rooms) occurred. In any case, the disregard the Administration has shown toward its stud¢nts and their possessions is distasteful, particularly Porterfield's statement that "the students probably-wouldn't have caredifnothing had been 
. missing.''' The Observer will look toward Security's ip.yestigation of this 
curious problem with marked interest in the c6ming day$:]n the meantime we call upon the Administration to clarify University policy in this area. And if that policy allows rectors to utilize student living space for non-students, at their own discr?tion, arid Without 
student consent (even in the case of''exceptions\')~ then thatpoli must be changed. 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 





Inauguration grumbles 
WASHINGTON-On this day. as Ronald Reagan takes the oath ofoffice, former Rep. John B. An­derson is moving into his new office at 1426 H Street, one block from the White House. 
While the former independent candidate wishes the President well, he's not about to go out and purchase an inaugural license plate. 

"I cannot divorce my impres­sions of Mr. Reagan from the careful attention that I paid to everything he said during the campaign," Anderson told us. "And when I match his rhetoric with his responsibility, I have a queasy feeling. I'm deeply con­vinced he does not have the right answers.'' 
Of particular concern to Ander­son is Reagan's selection of Alexander Haig as Secretary bf State. 
"Haig's military frame of reference bothers me,'' Anderson said. "He makes statements like, 'There are more important things than peace, like fighting and dying.' I find that very frighten­ing. I just wonder about the men­tality of such a man when he phrases his answers that way." 
Philosophical and good-humored about his trouncing, An­

derson  is  once  again  being  
mistaken  for  Dennis  the  
Menace's  television  father.  

Nevertheless, the former 
presidential candidate hopes to 
maintain some kind of network of communication with "like­minded people" and "activists" from his campaign, after he pays off a $600,000 campaign debt. 
"I will be bound by the events that take place in the Reagan ad­ministration," he said. In political lingo that means that he plans to be active in the future. 
Although Anderson won't confess to entertaining thoughts 
Maxwell Glen and Cody Shearer are syndicated colum· nlsts. 

of another run for the presidency, one can detect a note ofinterest in his voice. Indeed, once a true politician has run for the presidency it's difficult to get it out of his system. ­
•The White House press corps is muttering that they've never encountered a press secretary as uninformed as James Brady, Ronald Reagan's new spokes­man. Most reporters admit to attending Brady's morning brief­ings solely because of the free cof­fee. To his credit, Brady seems to detect this dissatisfaction, greet­ing those attending the daily brief­ing with, "Good morning, breakfast clul>bers." 
While Brady may not seem to know what's going on, he does have a good sense of humor. When asked recently if President­elect Reagan planned to ride a horse in Washington, he declared, "The President will ride but we don't know what." 
Ronald Reagan's capacity to ride horses stops at the first-trot. The president-elect underwent a prostate operation several years ago and can't withstand the jolts of a quickly moving horse. 
•Members 
of the Carter White House have been collecting dona­tions to buy a farewell gift for the outgoing president. It is said that Carter will receive a jeep. However, friends such as ad­ministrator Joan Claybrook of the National Highway Traffic Saftey Administration worry that the vehicle may be one proven to flip over easily. 

•There 
was some concern among senators on the Foreign Relations Committee about the health of Secretary of State­designate Alexander Haig. Last year, Gereral Haig underwent open-heart surgery. However, speculation about his health won't cost him any votes on the Senate floor. 

•Tradition 
and discrimination die hard. Since the early 1930s, Pekin (lllinois) High School has 


called its athletic teams the Pekin Chinks. As more Asian­Americans migrated to Central Il­linois and Pekin High, school adminstrators were forced to drop the name "Chinks" from the high school's sports blazers several years back. Only this fall, however, did school superinten­dent James Elliot decide that "Dragons" would l>e more ap­propriate than "Chinks" as a nickname. 0 Miami Beach businessmen have learned not to mess with the women's move­ment. According to the city's Tourism Development Authority, the city has lost $16 million during the past two years because of a 
boycott by the National Or­ganization of Women. The reason: Florida has not ratified the Equal Rights Amendment. Thus the local city council has passed an ordinance endorsing the ERA in hopes of reversing the city's losses. Mainland neighbor Miami is expected to similar endorsement. 
•college students, get for a moral decade. Two State legislators have already 
traduced legislation that ban X-rated films from shown at state-schools. Students at Northern Illinois University may have to say good-bye their 
erotic film festival. 
•commencement exercises are supposed too be upbeat. But Detroit's Mayor Coleman Young didn't paint too bright a picture during his recent winter com­mencment address a the Univer­sity of Michigan. "I wish I could tell you it (the real world) is going to be a bed of roses," Young said. "It's not and I think you know that. 
"This country is in trouble," he continued. "We face and economic and social crisis as severe in some aspects as the Great Depression. This severity is not generally recognized be­cause it does not impact with uni­formity across the nation." 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Edttor·ln·Cblef.....................................Paul Mullaney Sports Edltor...........................................Beth Huffman 
Managing Editor..........................................Mark Rust Features Edttor.......................................Molly Woulfe 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of t~e Editorials Editor..............................Michael Onufrak Photo Editor ...............................................John Macor University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colle~e. It does not ':lecessanly Senior Copy Editor.....................Mary Fran Callahan reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news IS reponed Executive News Editor................. .......TomJackman BusinessManager ..................................Greg Hedges as accurately and as objectively as possible: Ediro_ri~ls represent the opinion _of a NewsEditor............................................... Pam Degnan Controller.......................................................Jim Rudd majority of the Editorial Board. _Comn;tentanes, opm10ns, and letters are th~ views News Editor................................... ...........Lynne Daley Advertising Manager...................................Mark Ellis of their authors. Column space IS available to all members of the c~mmumty, and SMCExecutive Editor..........................Margie Brassil :;trculatton Manager........................ ....Beth Hackett the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, IS encouraged. SMC News Editor......................................Mary Leavitt Production Manager.. .......................John McGrath
--, 


0 
des are done from day to day many in a likewise way. But here is one you've never heard and may sound a bit absurd. 
I 
t's a story of the man they decree whose classes are taught liturgy. You might ask who this person be they call him Emil T. 
H
e preaches from the holy book of Principles and Properties. What preaches Emil T.? The cult ofChemistry. 
T
wo classes offive hundred each are disciples he doth teach. They meet at ten and eleven all ofwhom pray for the seven. 
L
ike Moslems pray five times a day the: disciples do in another way. They highlight scriptures with golden light and study them five times a night. 
H
is holy words are seen to all through visions cast upon the wall. Cast up there by the overhead all should know from scriptures read. 
M
any scribble down these sights for they have sinned -not reading nights. From this to workshops they do go to try to learn what they don't know. 


Features 
A 'Wilde, time for all 
MollyWoulfe 
F
ilm vt·tt·ran Vincent Price will portray Irish 
wit/writer Oscar Wilde in a one man-stage show, 
Diversions & Delights, this Saturday in Saint Mary's 
O'Laughlin Auditorium. The performance is sponsored 
by the Student linion. 

Price, most rp10wned f(Jr his major roles in horror movies (including House ofWax, The AbominableDr. Phibes, and Tbe(l/re ofBlood), also has a number of stage, radio. and television appearances to his credit. He has lectured on Primitive and Modern Art, Van Gogh, and Amnkan writers as wl·ll. in addition to pursuing his intercst in gourmct cooking. 
A master of ecccntric character roles, Price was fas­
cinatnl wit I! tlw prospen ofportraying Oscar Wilde. 
"Thc tanw ol hi~ wit is enough justification, but unsJer­
ncath the hrill~;mt facadt· is a vcry human being, vul­
nerabk to h b , m n hunt'. his own strengths and 
weaknesM·s ·· l'rit-c commented, adding that Wilde 
"inspires a kind of very real and identifiable audience 
admiration and apprcciation." 
One oft he most controversial tlgures ofthe late 
ninett'l'nth tnHury, Wilde was born in Dublin and ed­
ucated at Trinit) Collt'gt·, where ht• gained recognition 
as a dantlr .tnd a wit. A kader in the new "aesthetic" 
movement. ht· advocated "art for art's sake," decorating 
his room\\ ith peacock plumes and blue china cups. His 
languishing air. tTcentrk garments, long hair, and habit 
ofcarrying lillil's and sunflowers around also attracted 
attention in conservative Dublin. 
In the nitll'l ic.,, Wilde wrote a number ofdramas filled with brilliant paradoxes and wit, until accused of homost>xulity hy the Marquess ofQueensbury. The Irish playwrigiH sued the Marquess for libel, but the suit was dismbsnl. and evidence presented at the trail (purchased from several male prostitutes) ultimately led to Wiltk\ arrt·st and conviction on charges of sexual imnH>rality. Wilde was sentenced to two years in Reading Gaol at hard labor, and the master ofthe English language became a tlgure of tragedy. 
Upon his rekast·. Wilde moved to France where he lived in poverty. relieved by a small income from lectures like tht· one t·nvisioned in Diversions & Delights. lie died, a hrvken exile, from an eardisease he had developed in prison, but his wit remained with him to the last. On his deathbed in his cheap hotel room in Paris, Wildt·looknl at the peelingwallpaper and told his nurse, "Either it goes or I do!" He was forty-six years old. 
Price, who considers Wilde "a joy to play," mused 
"Wildt·'s is a genius that has never died...he survived. 
That thing which is perhaps ofparamount importance 
to the artist is s11rvival. Can you survive? Wilde survived 
the terrible thing ofprison and his genius and wi 
survived beyond." 

Thc script tilr f)ir•ersions & Delights was written by actor/writer.fohn (;ay. 
Diversions f·/Jeligbts, starring Vincent Price, will be performed thb Saturday evening at 7:30p.m. In O'Laughlin Auditorium. Tickets for students and faculty are S2.50, genl'ral admission Is $6. Tickets are available in the Studt'nt Union box office. 

Carl}. Frushon 
T
here's something else I did not speak ­these classes meet three times a week. With Mondays, Wednesdays homily and blessed be Friday's inquiry. 
0 
n Thursday all ready for Sabbath test another seven is what they quest. They study the scriptures 'til they can't for near midnight 'tis time to chant. 
T
he voices start low and rise to high crossing the limits ofearth and sky. As ifthe cult were all obsessed or else is it that they're possessed? 
H 
is name people are screaming with other words oflost, strange meaning. But soon the night turns into day and once again It's time to pray. 
A
ll go to Cushingone forty-two and there last-minute studying do. Then silence falls upon the crowd as their voices say out loud: 
0 
ur father who art in heaven give us this day another seven. And lead us not from Chemistry but deliver us from Emil T. 
Carl ). Frusbon is a freshman from Baltimore, Maryland. 

Tuesday,January 20, 1981 -page 7 


Homesickness 
H
omesickness is a malady that at some point In time every person experiences. I'm no exception. Whether it was my first sum­mer at camp or my 11rst year in college, I felt like I had been abandoned to the clements. The place I was venturingoffto seemed so distant and my possessions so few. When I left Metropolitan Airport in Detroit to come here, to Rome, everything I had come to know was put behind me. My friends. my family, my classes even, stayed in the good old U.S. ofA. when I was gallavanting in Europe. 
In front of me. there were the riches of many n·nturies ofart, his­tory and music. And behind me? A motley collection ofeighteen years experience. Why did I feel so abandoned? 

Istarted to understand why one night as I was on the phone talking 
to my parems, and crying. When I said good-bye, the tlrst thing I 
reached for was my Pooh Bear. Uut he wasn't there. He's sitting at 
home on my bed kn·ping my room ready for me. That was one ofthe 
things I couldn't take with me, my Pooh. 
My next inclination was to call my big brother to make me laugh and see how foolish I was being. But three thousand miles at Sl.50 a minute was too expensive for just a little cheering up. He was one of the people I couldn't take with me, my friends and family. 
Then a curious thing happened. One ofthe girls across the hall came 
over because she heard me crying. She talked while I cried. Then I 
talked while she listened. When all the tears ended, we laughed toget­
her. We hadn't left one thing behind, our sense ofcommunity. 
The one immeasurable piece ofluggage that arrived totally intact 
was this group's sense ofcommunity. 
When one "hrother" or "sister" gets a care package, everyone shares the wealth ofits treasures. Peanut butterand cookies, expecial­ly oreosand chocolate chip, are two ofthese most-sought-after items. They are consumed very quickly and with monumental appreciation. Ifsomeone is sick or lonely, there's always a shoulder to cry on or a rose to be bought and given in place ofa get-well card. And when it 
comes to having fun, what better way than to gently poke fun at our­selves and our program by immortalizingour idiosyncracies in a song to the tune of"Gilligan's Island". 
Jesus tells us that it is in giving that each one: ofus receives. What 
each person here has whether it be peanut butter or friendship, Is al­ways given freely. In the spirit ofChristian community, everyone: shares those talents which God has given him. When we: gather on Tuesday evenings to celebrate the: Mass, it is this very special Christian community coming togehter to thank God for what He has given us. For the things that we carry inside us, our faith, our talents, our love:. 
We never really left anything behind us. Across the: Atlantic we carried within us the only "luggage:" necessary, our sense: ofChristian community. 
The old cliche says, Home Is where tbe heart ts. I'd like to amend that. Home Is where tbe Christian community Is. These fifty-odd people are truly a Christian community. Welcome: home, baby. 
Therese Brown is a NotreDame sopbomorepresently studying tn 
Rome. 


Ihe.Obsener====================== 


~c:}c:t~~=====================T=u=es=da=y,=Jm=u=acy==2=0,=19=8=1==p=ag==e8 
Campus 

•4 
p.m. -lecture: "the louse that roared: parasite taxonomy, host specificity, and environ· mental implications," dr. ronald a hellenthal, galvin life center, room278. 

•7 
p.m. -lecture, bill san­dusky, visiting professor of art, 232 moreau hall (smc) 

•7·9 
p.m. -presentation and reception by owens-illinois, cce lower level dining area, sponsored by mangagement and marketing clubs. 

•7,9,11 
p.m.-film: casablanca, tuesday and wednesday, carroll hall(smc) n 

•7 
p.m. -film: chaplin's keystone films ( 1914 ), annen· berg auditorium (snite museum) 

•8 
p.m. -concert: irene schneidmann, piano, library auditorium. sponsored by uni· versity artist series. 


Foundation bankrolls students 

Nine graduate students at the Uni· 
versity of Notre Dame are currently 
completing requirements for ad· 
vanced degrees with funds supplied 
by the Arthur). Schmitt Foundation. 
Approximately 5800,000 has been 
provided by the Chicago foundation 
to aid almost 300 students since the 
program's beginning in 1960. 

Exceptional entering and finish· 
ing graduate students are eligible to 
receive 53,600 as a nine-month tax· 
free stipend. Dissertation year stu· 
dents may receive up to 54,300 with 
the University providing matching 
tuition remissions in both areas. 
Current first-year Schmitt Fellows at Notre Dame include Vernon F. Nicolette, Mt. Pleasant, Pa. Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering; Suzanne M. Voda, St. Louis, Mo., biology; Laurie A. Gallag· her, Mt.Pleasant, Mich., chemical engineering; Patrice M. Franko, Mas­sapequa, N.Y., economics; Anddrew Culhane, Vienna, Va., electrical engineering; Thomas J. Lankston, In­dianapolis, mal thematics, and Rex W. Joyner, Ft. Wayne, physics. 
Sewers needed 
N. D. Student Players desperately 1'eeds volunteers with sewing ex· P· ·rience to help in making costumes for the play Pippin, Feb. 6-8, 13, 14. Call Kathy at 6751 as soon as possible. 

Molarity 
Michael Molinelli 



Peanuts® 
,,.,l~ 

,.,,••,,
,,,,,,,,,.,,111(( 
\ C II( t t (t.C. f 1\t' tf 
1'''1 tltc'''''"'


""'''(''''"'''\I
\I(C It tCitll 






The Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 

HAVE I{OU E\/ER HEARD TI-lE E)(PRE5510t.l,''TO MAKE A LON6 STORV SHORT''? 
Charles Schulz 

"The next day, john was at the river again with two ofhis disciples. As he 
watched jesus walk by, he said, 'Look, There is the Lamb ofGod!' The two 
disciples heard what he said, and followed jesus. When jesus turned around 
and noticed them following him, he asked them, 'What are you looking for?' 
They said to him, 'Rabbi, where do ynu stay?' 
"COME AND SEE," 
he answered. So they went to see where he was lodged, and stayed with him that day." 
GENTLEMEN: 
THE FRANCISCAN FRIARS 
INVITE YOU TO "COME AND SEE", 
VOCATION RETREAT 
JAN30-FEB1 
FRANCISCAN RETREAT CENTER Mount Saint Francis, IndJaoa 
For your reservation or for further information contact Friar Richard or Friar William: 
St. Anthony Novitiate 1316 W. Dragon Trail Transportation will be provided Mishawaka, IN 46544 for ND students 
(219)255-2442 

~ 
..............................................~~--~~~-~: 
ACROSS 
1 Ring up 
5 Pressdown 
9 Financial 
windfall 14 River near 
Pis a 15 Great Lake 16 Send to 
Coventry 17 Delicious 19 Pipplnor 
delicious 20 ASothem 21 Compliance 23 Glacial 
ridges 24 Manitoba Indian 25 Freeplay 27 O.T. hero· 
ine 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 





SCUBA LESSONS 
Spring Semester Come to Room 2D LaFortune Center 7:00 PM -Jan. 22 Bring $30 Deposit 
Find out about our Bahamas Trip for Spring Break! 

Call272-8607 or 272-9780 
Aquapro Scuba Center 
30 On a spit, 34 Brogueor 
buskin 35 Set right 37 Compete 38 Radio 
Indian 40 Attila 41 Sarcastic 43 Work unit 44 Achieve 
justice 47 Scored on the court 48 Pullet packing 50 Dossier contents 52 Lohengrin's love 53 Egyptian cotton 


54 Company of badgers 56 Songster 
Julius 59 Merry 62 Organic 
compound 64 Mumbles and mutters 66 Beleaguer· 
ing 67 Dance 68 Unusual 69 Priscilla's 
love 70 Put up 71 Luminary 
DOWN 1 Computer 
Iodder 2 Press 3 Shortly 4 Fate 5 Mosaic unit 6 Cropped up 7 Marceau, 
tor one 8 Hammerhead end 9-culpa 10 Muckraker's goal 11 Insincere 
agreement 12 Stew pot 13 At no time, 
bard style 18 Aesop's race loser 
22 Umpend 24 Huntley 26 Dumbfounds 27 Kefauver 28 Lacking 
funds 29 lnarticu· late 30 Played for 
a sucker 31 "-Fu" 32 Duckdown 33 Feats 36 There's 
associate 39 Dunderheads 42 Wine valley 45 Small 
container 46 Letter 49 Rearuntil 
ready 51 Oriental maid 
53 Turkey young 54 Dwelling 
fora Don 55 Jannings 57 Certain 
Ugandan 58 Horse color 59 Insect 60 Taj Mahal 
site 61 Belgian river 
63 Sundown, poetically 65 Fed. agcy. 



The Observer Tuesday, january 20, 1981 -page 9 






Mitchell: comeback two 
By CHRIS NEEDLES 
Sports Writer 
When he first began playing bas· ketball for Notre Dame In 1978, Mike Mitchell was a highly touted freshman guard, having come off a senior year at Capuchino High School where he averaged 31 points per game and was named player of the year in Northern California. 
In his freshman season at NO, the San Bruno native played in all but one of his team's 30 games, averag· ing a modest 14 minutes, three points and three assists per contest. But, at times, he showed flashes of brllliance, most especially with a 10 point, eight assist performance in an 80-53 blowout of Brown. 
Almost Immediately, the com­parisons began rolling in. Mitchell's shooting and play making abilltHIIIlllUI along with his keenness of court presence, reminded many observers of Rich Branning, who at that time was an established standout as a junior point guard. Both Branning and Mitchell were point guards, both were born and raised on the beaches of California, and they even looked like each other. It all added up to a very bright future for Mike Mitchell. 
Then, in the fall of his s6phomore year, Mitchell tore up his knee. 
"A bunch ofus were playing ball at The Rock one night," Mitchell said. "I made a move toward the hoop, and my right shoe sort of stuck on the floor. My body went one way and my knee went the other." 
As a result, Mitchell tore the car· 

tllage on the left side of his right 
knee. It was a rather serious injury, 
but thanks to the "microsurgery" 
performed by a doctor in East Lan· 
sing and a lot of rehabilitation, 
MJtcheiJ was ready to play again by 
mid -December. "This doctor had 
perfected the 'microsurgery' tech­
nique," said Mitchell. "It's nothing 
more than poking a few holes in the 
knee and scraping the tom cartilage 
out. It basically serves the s~e 
purpose as normal knee surgery, but 
without having to open up the 
knee." 
Mitchell was able to play in 24 

games last season, but saw limited 
playing time because ofthe knee and 
the arrival of an adequate replace­
ment in John Paxson. But Mitchell 
went home to California for the sum­
mer determined that he could fully 
strengthen the knee and, maybe, 
begin to live up to the potential es­
tablished for him during the 1978­
79 season. 
But then, it happened again. 
"I was playing summer league ball 

in California," Mitchell said, "and 
during a game, the knee just gave out 
on me. I'm not even sure how I hurt 
it the second time." So, It was back to 
the doctor In East Lansing for more 
microsurgery, this time to remove 
the cartilage on the otber side of the 
right knee. "Now I don't have to 
worry about tearing any more car­
tilage in my right knee," joked 
Mitchell, "because there's nothing 
left to tear. It's all gone." 
It has been a long, difficult road to 

Jeeps, Cars, Trucks 
Available through government agencies. Many sell for under $200. 
Call (602) 941-8014, Ext. 3648 

tor your directory on how to purchase. 

recovery for Mitchell, and It Isn't completed yet. He feels his knee Is only about 80 · 85/ healed, and in the meantime he works out three times a week on a machine in the weight room called an Orthotron, which helps build the thigh muscles that become weakened from inac­tivity. 
But Mitchell will see 

..__...___M...;:::'Iik..e•M-i..tcr::h;;.e.ll--Uoiiiiili.l juries. But Mike Mitchell, despite 
two separate knee injuries and two some action in tonight's rematch operations, is attempting to beat the against San Francisco, a school he 
odds and try to become the fine 
gave considerable thought to player he was originally destined to attending before finally choosing become. Hopefully, he will get his Notre Dame. "It came down to eit· chance. 


'i ENGINEERS/COMPUTER SCIENCE GRADUATES ! 
I 
I 

LOOKING FOR A CAREER ·' WITH BROAD HORIZONS? 
her NO or San Francisco," Mitchell 
said. "It was a tough choice. I live 
practically right next to the USF 
campus, and all my friends from 
back home went there. In fact, I even 
went to every USF (home) basket­
ball game from eighth grade until my 
senior year ofhigh school, and got to 
know all the players and coaches 
real well. But I chose NO instead. 
"But I don't have any regrets 
about coming here," he continued. 
"I've made a lot ofgood friends and 
~;lave had a great time." 
Mitchell feels that his knee will ' finally be 100 percent by about the · beginningofFebruary. "For now, my 
role with the team is just to get 
healthy and give some of the other 
guards a rest," he explained. 
"Actually, the bandage I wear on the 
knee is pretty much psychological. I 
feel I can play pretty well without it, 
but all the coaches and trainers say I 
have to wear it." 
Many athletes have seen their 
careers ruined by serious knee in· 

We're McDonnell Douglas-one of the world's leaders in fast moving, exciting fields ... military and commercial aircraft, missiles, spacecraft, elec­tronics, automation and health services. 
And we're looking for people who are looking for the opportunity to put what they've learned to work-people like you. 
What we offer is a wide variety of advanced technical projects and a chance to get involved, really involved, in programs on the leading edge of technology. 
So, if you're an engineer or computer specialist who wants a job with real responsibility, sign up at your Placement Office for an interview. 
We'll be on campus: 


Thursday, February 12 



The Observer Tuesday, january 20, 1981 -page 10 
SPORTSSTAFF: Mandatory Meeting -thurs 6:30p.m. in Observer office Newcomers ******** ******** WELCOME  

• 
Permanent Centers open days, • Opportunity to make up missed evenings and weekends. lessons. 

• 
Low hourly cost. Dedicated full­• Voluminous home-study materials time staff. constantly updated by research­

• 
Complete TEST-n·TAPES"'facilities ers expert in their field. for review of class lessons and 


• Opportunity to transfer to and supplementary materials. 

continue study at any of our 

• Small classes taught by skilled over 85 centers. 
instructors. 

OTHER COURSES AVAILABLE 
GRE PSYCH &810 • MAT • PCAT • OCAT • VAT • TOEFL MSKP • NMB • VQE • ECFMG • FLEX • NOB • NLE 

W!~ St~-H. Call 1 291e~3:f5oO 
KIIPUIN Classesftarting 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
soon • 

For lnformat1on About Other Centers TEST PREPARATION Out,de NY State
I 

SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 CALL TOLL FREE: 800-223-1782 
Tracyjackson watches hisIrish teammates edgeFordham from the bench. The 6-6 startingguard was taken to the hospital after the game to x-ray his ankle. His status is doubtful for tomorrow's rematch with the San Francisco Dons. (Photo by Chris Salvino) 
Lietzke continues -winning 
Bruce lietzke extended a couple and sleep with the lead all the way. now has won at least once in each of of career habits with his front­That's the only time I really have fun the last five years. running, record-setting victory in on the golf course, when I'm leading If it should happen again, lietzke the Bob Hope Desert Classic, but or have a chance to win," Lietzke has $50,000 -the winner's share of he's concerned that a third, not-so­said Sunday after leading all the way the $304,500 purse -to tide him positive habit could be lurking in his and closing with a 3-under-par 69. over and buy gasoline for his pride 
future. That finished off a week-long per­and joy, a custom, souped-up Trans­
Of his six career victories, four formance, spread over four desert Am and its 500-plus horsepower have come at this time of the year, courses, in which he shot 335, a engine that gets about five miles to very early in the season. dizzying 2 5 strokes under par and the gallon. He drives it from Tour 
And, he said, at least half of them two better than the old record for stop to stop, he said, "because I don't have come with him leading all the this, the only 90-hole event on the like flying. I'm not afraid of it, I just way, as he did in this marathon, five­PGA tour. don't like it," he said. day event. "It's a popular thing for "This was probably the best week Then he grinned. me to do, get a good start and live of golf in my life," said Lietzke, who "But I'm flying low now." 

NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION 


SPRING BREAK IN DAYTONA BEACH 
MARCH 13 ­ 22, 1981  
5207 5195  4 PER ROOM (2 Double Beds) 6 PER ROOM (3 Double Beds)  
TRIP INCLUDES  

• 
Round trip motor coach transportation on first class charter coaches leaving the campus Friday 

evening March 13 and traveling straight through with plenty of partying to Daytona Beach, arriving the following day. The return trip departs the follow­ing Sat. in the afternoon, and arrives back on campus the next day. 

• 
A full seven nights accommodations at the Plaza Hotel of Daytona Beach, Florida. 

• 
A great time in Daytona with special parties and activities. 

• 
Optional trip to Disney World available. 

• 
All taxes and gratuities. 




SIGN UP NOW AT THE TICKET OFFICE IN THE LA FORTUNE BUILDING 
8:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m. MON.-FRI. OR CALL 283-3031 (after five 283-6283J 


~j1{)1"tS~l;l~~~t~·e~~S~======~===================T=u=es=da=y=,J=m=u=~==2o=,=t9=B=t==p=a=~=t~t 
by The Ohsert't'r and The AJS()~iatt•d Prn.1 
St. Mary's ski team ptaced thtrd this past weekend out ofa field of 11 women'steams at the Michigan Governor's Cup at Crys­tal Mountain, Mich. Terri Meyer placed second over all in a field of59 women while Sharon Smlggen and Nancy Sheft contributed to the ream's points with 17th and 19th place finishes respectfully In the slalom. 
The Waterpolo Club will hold a mandatory meeting today at 7 p.m. In the small auditorium of LaFortune for anyone In­terested In playing waterpolo this spring. Elections for officers will also be: held. Contact Pat McDivitt at 8650 or Mike Goscienski at 8603 for more Information. 
The Rugby Club will hold a meeting on Thursday at 7 
p.m. In the LaFortune Ballroom. New members are welcome. 
The women's track club practices every day in the ACC concourse at 4:30 p.m. Anyone Interested in participating is en­couraged to attend. Be prepared to run outside. For more information contact Cindy McNally at 8152 or Rosanne Bellomo at 6896. 
TQm Sluby, Adam ParS()ns and Blair 
Kielwill be the special guests on an all-freshman sports call-in talk show tonight on WSND-AM 63. The 7 p.m. broadcast will be hosted by freshmen Dave Dziedzic and Tim Hartigan. 

Continuedfrom page 12 
Coach of national championship teams in 1977 and 1978, DeCicco has tutored 15 Notre Dame AU­Americans. Even more impressive are the 18-, 26-, 31-, and 122-meet winning streaks that have occurred under the leadership ofthe man they fondly call "the Italian Peter Pan." 
As important as the victories has been the recognition of DeCicco's talents by his peers. In addition to being named "coach of the year" by the American Fencing Coaches As­sociation In 1966, 1975 and 1977, DeCicco was selected to coach the United States World Games fencing 
team in 1970. Further testimony of 
DeCicco's contribution to fencing 
was his selection to the Helm's Hall 
of Fame in}anuary, 1973. 
More recently, DeCicco served as 
team manager of the United States 
fencing delegation which competed 
at the World Games held In Mexico 
City in the fall of 1979. Also, he acted 
,\lli Chiefofthe U.S. Delegation to the 
Junior World Fencing Champion­
ships, held in Venice, Italy,last April. 
DeCicco, who is also a professor 
of mechanical engineering and the 
athletic academic counselor, has 
•coached the 1981 Irish fencing team 

to a 1-0 slate thus far. 
Mike DeCicco 

Sophomore center Tim Andree stepped in to start against Fordham and contributed eight points and some much needed rebounding for the Irish. (Photo by Chris Salvino) 

For Digger's squad 
A sweet, sour season 
LOUISVILLE -"Everything's coming up roses . . _" 
He wouldn't say It, but It had to be on his mind. 
After Richard Frederick Phelps (alias Digger) had led 
his team to a 67-61 win over the University ofKentucky, 
he had to be thinking: 
"God, I'm glad It's over!" 
"It" of course was the monkey that had been on Digger's back since the last time he'd won in Freedom Hall back In 1973. In fact, there were but two people associated with this team that could even remember that night; Phelps and assistant coach Gary Brokaw, who was a starting guard on the 1973 squad. 
But, as they say, anything worth having is worth waiting for, and though the drought was long, the relief that finally came on this night was sweet. 
Oh, so sweet! And the celebration that followed... well, we won't go into that. Let's just say that It was a fitting end to one ofthe more memorable nights in Irish basketball history. Well deserved? But ofcourse. And it looked like the first of many more to come. 
Meanwhile, back at the rauch ... 
SOUTH BEND -"There's nothing wrong with this basketball team," Digger was saying after practice yes­terday. "For five weeks we were a very good team and we beat some very good teams. Then we lose a few games to some very good teams and right away we've got 'a problem.' 
"Well, as far as I'm concerned we're still a very good team, and, though the losses are disappointing, we are not ready to fly the white flag and abandon ship."• 
Ask for explainations and Digger will oblige -quick­ly reminding that they are just that, explainations, and not excuses. 
"We had some critical breakdowns in defense against Marquette ·and San Francisco and that hurt us," he begins. "Then we couldn't hit our foul shots and that killed us. Coaches constantly stress that fundamentals 
, win games -foul shots, defense -but not until you're in a situation like we faced in Milwaukee or Oakland, is it <:tear." 
"Hey, Ifwe hit foul shots against San Francisco like we did against Kentucky, we win the game." 
The obvious question then is why? Why couldn't they hit the foul shots against San Francisco like they did against Kentucky? When it's suggested that road trips and jet lag and no real vacation and living in the Morris Inn for a month might be a factor, Digger smiles but refuses to agree. 
"I think that our players get used to the routine that every student follows through the year," he says. "And it's true that what we face over Christmas break is tough." 

What they actually face is finals week, like the rest of us, then a week of intense preparation for Kentucky, unlike the rest of us. Then home for two days and back for practice at 7:30p.m. on -try this one -New Years Eve. That's right; while we're shooting streamers, they're shooting jump shots. While we're drinking champaign, they're drinking Gatorald. While we're listening to Auld Lang Syne, they'rc. listening to Digger. 
Now, doesn't that sound pleasant? 
Then it's jumping on airplanes and living out of suitcases and 5 a.m. wake-up calls to make a flight from San Francisco to Denver... 
Then back to the old grind. 

"But there's no other way to do it," insists Digger. "We do things the way we feel is best for the program and best for the Notre Dame student-athlete." 
And there's the key word. 

"Do you realize we've played six road games and only missed one day of classes?" Digger reminds proudly. "And when the whole season's over we'll have missed only two more. To play a national schedule and miss only three class days all season is what I think college athletics is all about." 
"These kids are students first and we keep that In mind with every decision we make concerning the team." 
Still it's a factor. It's a good reason why every game isn't a re-run of Kentucky. In fact, it's probably the best reason anyone can think of. And it's not an excuse. It's just a simple fact of life that has plagued Notre Dame basketball players for years. 
"This kind of schedule gets us ready for the tourna­
ment," Digger emphasizes. "That's when It really gets 
tough. For instance, when we go to the playoffs we 
might be out oftown for four and five days at a time. It's 
tough then like It's tough now, but if we do It now it's 
not a new experience for us." 

"I want to show this team every situation they might face in the playoffs because that's when It counts. And I want them to be prepared." 
So all Digger's planning and conniving and even those "obvious" blunders might actually turn out to be not­hing more than carefully-conceived foresight. Results might not be apparent until oh... say Monday, March 30, on the floor ofthe Spectrum in the City ofBrotherly Love. 
When it counts... when it really counts. 
.DeCicco 


Borg takes tennis tourney 
(AP)-Bjorn Borg says the Volvo Grand Prix Masters won't become a major tennis tournament as long as a player can lose a match and still win the championship. 
However, it was just that road that the magnificent Swede traveled 
1 before destroying Ivan Lend! 6-4, 6­2, 6-2 Sunday for the SIOO,OOO first prize In the $400,000 event. Both finalists had controversial losses Friday after qualifying for the semi­finals with two victories on the first two rounds ofround-robin play. 

Tuesday, January 20, 1981 -page 12




1--··. 

Wait for USF revenge 
Irish control Fordham 
ByT.J. PRISTER 
Sports Writer 

Third-year coach Tom Penders of Fordham University said this could be the year that his squad would knock off perennial favorite Notre Dame. Fortunately for Digger Phelps and his Fighting Irish squad, Penders was wrong-but just barely. 
Sparked by subs David Maxwell and Steven Samuels, Fordham made a valiant run at the Irish before final­ly succumbing, 67-61. 
"Notre Dame is tough and we knew they wouldn't crack but with (Tracy) Jackson's unfortunate in­jury, it gave us an opportunity," said Penders. 
An injury to senior tri-captain Tracy Jackson early in the first half diminished the Irish firepower from outside but sophomore forward Bill Varner helped pick up the slack by tossing in five-of-seven field goal at­tempts and totalling 12 points. 
"The status on Tracy is still up in the air but it is doubtful that he will play Wednesday against San Fran­cisco. We hope he will be ready for Saturday's game against Maryland but we'll have to get the results from the X-rays first," said Phelps. 
Notre Dame was also helped by the strong inside play of rare starter Tim Andree who contributed a season high seven rebounds. Kelly Tripucka, the customary Irish scoring leader, netted 21 points hit­ting eight-of-14 field goals and a per­fect five-for-five from the line. Orlando Woolridge added 16 points despite a surprisingly poor six-of-12 from the line. 
Notre Dame's tough man-to-man defense and fullcourt press pressured Fordham into several ear­ly first half turnovers allowing for a quick 19-6 advantage. However, a key timeout by Pender prevented a further onslaught by the Irish. Pen-der instructed his squad to switch from a zone defense to a man-to-man at the 14:00 mark which helped en­gineer the Rams' late first half surge led by Maxwell and Samuels who ac­ccouted for half of Fordham's first half points. 

Samuel's slick move inside the late with 1:03 remaining in the half pulled Fordham within five before going into intermission with a 35-28 deficit. 
Offensively, the Irish built their lead in the first half by reversing the ball quickly against the zone, some­thing the Irish had failed to do in their three most recent outings. 
'The status on Tracy is still up in the air, but it is doubtful that be will play Wednesday' 
"I think we played well early and 

could have possibly built our lead up 
to 16 or 17 points but a couple tur­
novers kept it close," commented 
Phelps. 
Phelps praised Andree in his start­

ing role and seemed to be pleased 
with the help from the bench. "Tim 
Andree gave us a solid twenty-three 
minutes tonight. He did make a 
couple turnovers when he tried to 
force a couple passes but overall I'm 
quite pleased with his performance. 
Varner helped pick up the slack 
when Tracy was hurt and Sshowed a · lot of poise when he hit a long jum­per late in the game," said Phelps. "Andree's performance is the kind of performance that we need from 
the center position, especially Wed­nesday night against (Wallace) Bryant," added Phelps. 
Fordham managed to pull within three late in the game but a Tom Sluby 18-footer followed by a three­point play by Tripucka nudged the Irish advantage to 56-48 with six minutes remaining. 
Stubborn Fordham continued to make a comeback by using the outside shooting talents of guards Tony Foust, Mark Murphy and Max­well before finally running out of playing time. IRISH ITEMS ­Coach Phelps committed himself to starting Andree against San Fran­cisco after his fine performance on the boards -He also said he ex­pected Varner to step into the start­ing lineup with the absence of Jackson -Bill Calhoun, Fordham's Most Valuable Player last year, was limited to 4 points while Sudanese center Dud Tonga! tossed in 10 points and grabbed a team leading 6 rebounds -Kelly Tripucka's 21 points pulled him within four ofDon "Duck" Williams, who is sixth on Notre Dame's all time scoringlist. -Gilbetto Salinas suffers from a pulled ligament in his knee and will probab­ly not see action until the South Carolina game in the ACC onJan. 31 
-Gerry Faust, new head coach of the Fighting Irish football team, was presented at halftime of the Fordham game by retired Athletic Director Edward "Moose" Krause and received a warm reception from the capacitv crowd. 


Against Taylor 
Belles come up short, 6 3-60 
By DAVID WILSON 
Sports Writer 
Despite a furious defensive effort in the closing minutes ofan exciting basketball contest, Saint Mary's suf­fered a heartbreaking loss at the hands ofTaylor University last night, 63-60. The Belles, who led by as many as ten points early in the game, simply failed to cash in on a number of key turnovers late in the second half and Taylor escaped with the win. The loss left the Belles at 6-3 for the season while the Trojanes im­proved their record to an even 6-6. When asked about the reasons be­hind the loss. Coach Jerry Dallessio could find but a few. 
"We did a good job of forcing them into turnovers when we needed to," he said. "Our real problem was in not being. able to capitalize on these mistakes. 
"Taylor just shot the lights out in the second half(59 percent from the field) we only shot 36 percent, which has got to be our worst shoot­ing percentage this year. The shots just weren't dropping for us." 
Saint Mary's played a brilliant first half, excecuting a patient offense together with a number of fast
-


APTopl3 

1. Oregon St. ( 40) 13-01,217 2. Virginia ( 19) 14-0 1,186 3. DePaul (2) 15-1 1,065 tie Wake Forest ( 1) 14-0 1,065 5. Louisiana St. 14-1 993 6. Kentucky 11-2 846 7. Arizona St. 13-2 731 8. Tennessee 12-2673 9. Iowa 11-2 649 10. Maryland 12-3610 11. s. Alabama 15-1 563 12. UClA. 9-3499 
13. Notre Dame 10-3484 

Kelly Trlpucka was again high-point man for the Irish, chipping in 21 points against Fordham. (Photo by Chris Salvino) 
breaks in opening up an early lead. Taylor started slowly, but then got their act together to make it close at the half, 32-29. 
Ann Armstrong led the Belles with 21 points while Mary Pat Syttlington threw in 11. Gretchen Meyer and Maureen King both scored eight and Tracee Hargreaves threw in three. 
The Belles host the 9-2 Pumas of St. Joseph tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. 

DeCicco leads Irish for 20th season 
By RICK CHRYST 
As he enters his 20th year as the head of Notre Dame's fencing fortunes, there seems little Mike DeCicco has yet to accomplish. But don't try telling him that, because he's bound to make you a liar. Three "coach ofthe year" awards, two suc­cessive NCAA championship teams and 18 consecutive winning seasons are stats good enough for any school, much less an individual coach. Yet these are but a few of the records that the native of Newark, N.J., has collected in his longtime as­sociation with the Fighting Irish. 
A 1949 graduate of Notre Dame, DeCicco came to South Bend with a rich fencing tradition. The nephew of an Olympic coach, DeCicco began fencing in New York City in 1938, gaining experience which would later prove valuable in his collegiate career. Competing in all three weapons (the last fencer in Notre Dame history to do so), DeCicco compiled an impressive 63-20 career mark, including a 29-1 slate his junior year which was good enough to earn him an NCAA tournament berth. Especially remarkable was DeCicco's career 
foil ledger of 45-4, a mark which ranks him as the number-one Notre Dame fencer in that weapon. DeCicco's 29 victories in 1948 remained an Irish record for 28 years before four-time All-American Mike Sullivan collected 53 victories.. 
in 1976. 
After graduation, DeCicco remained at Notre Dame and five years later, while finishing his doc­torate work, began teaching in the mechanical engineering depart­ment. 
DeCicco, who was featured in the 

Jan. 7, 1980, issue of Sports Il­
lustrated, took control of the Irish 
fencing program in 1962, replacing 
the legendary Walter M. Langford, 
who had chalked up a record of155­
35 in 15 years at the helm. After 
struggling to a 7-8 record in his 
freshman coaching season, 
DeCicco's 1963 squad (14-2) 
became the first in a long line ofwin­
ning teams. In his 19 years at the 
head position, DeCicco has guided 
five teams to undefeated marks and 
only three times have his pupils 
finished with more than three set­
backs in a season. 
See DECICCO,,_.u 

--------------------------------------------------~-----------­







