
, , , 'Fat chicks ' letters -page 6 

VOL. XVI. :\00..B an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saim mary's \X"EDNESDA Y, OCTOBER 7, 19H I 
During parade 
Attackers assassinate Anwar Sadat 
, The army sources· said all six at­tion tlgurcs suspcctcd of fomcnting
CAIRO. Egypt (AP) -Pn:sidcnt 
tackers. including one lieutenant. ChriMian-.\loslcm strife in Egypt. lie
Anwar Sadat, whosc pcacc with Is­
were members of an artilkry unit. shared the I1)7H :'llohd Peace Prize
rad changcd thc coursc of .\liddlc 
They said two wcre killed and the with Israeli Prime Minister Mcnac­
East history, was assassinatcd ycstcr­
others wcre being interrogated. hcm Bcgin after reaching the l I.S..
day hy six Egyptian soldicrs who 
That report differed from an ear­sponsored Camp David accords.
jumpcd from a jccp on military 
lier statement by Egypt's ambas­LaM month ht· ordcrnl thl' arn·~t
paradc and charged the revicwing 
sador to Washington, Ashraf of more than I.')()() pcoplc, includ·
stand firing automatic wt·apons. 
(ihorbal. lie said three assassins ing fundamentalist \loslcms and
Army sources said the attackers 
were killed and three wt·re Coptic Christian kaders. and or­
werc Moslcm fundamcntalists. 
captured. dcrnl privatc mosqut·s to acccpt
Sadat has hcen under attack by 
The Egyptian government has not govcrnmcnt control.
Moslcm fundamentalists who claim 
given oftkal word on the assassin:-.' The attackers were said to have
he bctraycd Islam and the Arah 
identities, thcir agl·s. ur their politi­shouted. "(ilory to Egypt'" and
world through his pcacc with Israd, 
cal and religious aftiliations. \Tiled "Agl·nt:-. and intrutll-rs!" at
which brokc the cyclc uf threc 
Vice President ~losni .\tubarak lilrngner:-. "n the revicwing stand
decades of Mideast wars. Yestcnlay's 
declared a state of emergeiKY and '' •uching 1ill' parade
parade marked the anniversary of 
the ruling :'liational lkmonauc Diplomatic and police sourtT:-.
what Egypt calls a "glorious Arab 
Party nominated him to succeed rcportcd Sl'Vcn others killnl and 27
victory" in the last contlict of that 
Sadat. wot.ndcd on tht· n·vkwing stand.
cycle · the 197.3 Arab war against Is­
Grid was expressed around the which was littered with bulkt·rad. 
world at the loss of a man President riddlnl armchairs and hloodicd dig·
Thc raiders also werc said to have 
Rcagan called "a champion of nitark:-. thrown into pandemonium
killed scvcn othcr pcoplc and 
peace." But there was rejoicing in by tht· attac·k.
woundnl 27. including thrce 
some Arab capitals and by Paks· It occurred shortly aftcr I p.m.
Amcrican scrviccmcn and two 
tinians who felt Sadat sold them out during a low !lyhy by jl'l fighters. Ex·diplomats. 
to the Israelis. plosions also were ht·ard. indicating In Beirut. Lebanon. caller:-. grt·nadcs were thrown in the attack. purporting to speak for three Young men. dres:-.nl in olive drahThree ideals separate Egyptian opposition unilimns. jumped from a moving groups, claimed rcsponihility. jeep and charged the president. 
The death was considered likdy tiring thdr weapons. to bring a new period of turmoil to .\luharal.; told the nation in a T\'
Veysey interprets higher education 
the .\1ideast. and Israeli opponents of address announcing the death of (.·orruption by promoting a culture
By MARK WORSCHEH history, and according to \'t·ysey. the peace treaty were gathering sup­Sadat: "we arc accustomnl to these 
•lf professionalism, saying that the
\'eu•s Staff currt·nr economic pressures hurt port for a last-ditch effort to block wounds and we hdieve in <iod's will markl'l causes corruption. not tht·
the liberal arts ideal ost ofall. Israel's withdraw from the Sinai. and we will continut· in the namt· of brief cncounter with the acadcmic
The devdopment of highn "We liVl' not only in an age of The 62-year-old Sadat had the spirit and soul of our kader anll world.
nlw.:ation provided the topic for a reduced means and budgets," sa.id enemies at home and througholll our constitution that we· will abide· "It is the larger society that is
kcture given last night by Professor Ycysey,"but ofi-ncreasing pessimism the \liddk East because ofhb pcan· by all trl·aties and commitment:-. 
titiling us, rather than the academic
Laurenet· Yeyscy, of thc Univcrsity and loss of intellcctual 111oralc ... treaty with Israel and his recent 
world failing society," concluded See SAD AT, page 4
of California at Santa Cruz. Veysey, Faculties are hcing deprived of crackdown on hundreds of opposi-
Yeysey.
tht: author of several books on the rent·wal through younger, more vi­
Ycysey's lccture, "Higher Educa­
history of American education, dis­tal blood. The greatcst agc of the 
tion: The Dcvclopment of a Profes­
cussnl the thrn· ideals in hight·r American university, in scholarly 

Atnbassadors: Peace
sion," was the third in an eleven part
learning and the balant'l' hctwecn and scientific terms, may lie in tht· 
series entitled "The Professions in
them. past." 
American History." Sponsored by Calling tht· university a place of Though career training and Notre Dame's history department 

UJill. be preserved'
"t·xtremc internal diversity." Yeysey research hold the current ad-and funded by the Schurz Com­\\'ASHINGTO:'IJ (AP) The United States, it simply isn't known
said that career training. basic vantagc, Yeysey said that the liheral munication Foundation and the In­research. and liberal arts fall under arts "are not all that had a place to diana Committee for the Egyptian and Israeli ambassadors whether his government will be the conn·pt of higher education. tlnd oncsd( if one is so lucky." Humanities, the series texts will be 
predicted yesterday the Camp David strong enough to follow Sadat's peace process will survivc the assas­policies · unpopular among Egypt's sination of Anwar Sadat. Arah neighbors and among Sadat's "Pendulum swings" give each of Ycysey defended academia from published by the University of :'IJotrc 
these idt·als rdative prominance in charges that universities help spawn Dame Press. But U.S. and diplomatic sources domestic opponents. agreed the death of the Egyptian "We arc very, very worried," said lcader greatly complicatt·s efforts to an · lsradi source ht·re who didn't
Enrich students 
devise a lasting Arab-lsradi peace. want to bt· identitkd. "It's a VlTY Sadat staked his career and his life. sevnc rl·alization how shaky thl· on thl· Camp David and on good situation in Egypt is, and how shaky
NDISM C foreign programs prosper 
relations with the United States. !lis the peace is." death raised immediate 4uestions There was no mbtaking Sadat':-. in· 
Although he admits that this process ofsdf-discoven·
By CAROL CAMP 
whether his sucu:ssors could. or !luence in American l·fforts to estab­is "sometimes very painful." Dr. Parnell nevertheles-s
.'Vt'II'S Sltljf 
would. ti>llow that path. .\tiddk
bs:licves that it provides the Notre Dame student with lish a tlnn position in the 
Though Sadat's sun:essor, vice East.
an "incredible opportunity" to experience personal
Sinn· thl· llll!tatton of tilrcign studies programs in 
president Hosni \luharak, is con·
growth. See PEACE, page 4I 96·4. morl' than 1.900 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's sidered a staunch friend of thel'niversity Prcsident Rev. Theodore llesburgh l'n­
stmknt~ have milized the opportunities which these thusia:-.tically echoes Dr. Parnell's St'IHimc·nts concern·
pnlgrams provide~ ing forcign study by simply stating that "everyone
Participants u:-.uall~· spl·nd their sophomore year should do it." llesburgh spent three years studying
abroad in sud1 countril'S as Taiwan and \kxico. In the philosophr. theology, and languagc:-. at (iregoin· l'ni·
dassroom, they karn about the country's hmguage, Vl'I'SitY in Rome during his colkge years. lie attributes
litaature and culturt·. but thn· ~ll'quire the most his involvement in more than twenty different interna­
valuabk and memorable education outside till' tiuniliar tional organizations and a lifelong intercst·in world af­
four wall:-.. By living with peopk of a diffcrl'nt cultural titirs to the experiences hl· had while studying abroad.
background on a daily basb a vast nt·w world of bdids The relativdy low rate of :-.tudent participation in
and ide~tb, which chalkngl· their "'' n perspt·ctin·. in· foreign studies programs concerns lksburgh. who
trodlllT:-. it~df to bdicvc:-. that the program:-. "arc not selling a:-. well as
tIll' ~llldt·n t:-.. they should. given their inherl·nt worth." lk supports
According to the continued development and impron·ment of the
I>r. <:harks Par· variou:-. programs. because he i:-. the· tlrst to admit that
ndl. head of the "till' world sometinws looks prl'tty small from herl'."
forcign :-.ludic:-. The experience gained hy each student who par·

program:-.. the ticipatcs in one of the program:-. is as uniqul· as thl' in­
lll'ed of Mudent:-. to undergo "sdf-examination" served dividual him:-.dt: :\ set·mingly intinite number of ways
a:-. the primar~ basb lilr thc l'Stahlishmcnt and im· exist:-. to dt·scribl' ·the mt·morit'!> and expl'ril·nces ac­
plt·mc·ntation ofoppoptunitil·s to study abroad. Dr. l'ar­quired while living in a land and culture which con­
nl'll also citl·:-. tht· obligation llfa "humani:-.tic in:-.titution tradicts their own. l 'ndouhtnlly. this diversity pkased
such a:-. ~otrl' Dame" to offer its stu~knts the mean:-. to the program':-. previou:-. participants.
t·xammt· and to explore thl·m:-.dvl·:-. as \\ dl a~ the :-.urrounding world. 
See FOREIGN, page 5 






News Brie/§ 
Wednesday, October 7, 1981 -page 2 

c===~==========~====================================~
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
The Hall Presidents Councilmet for the seventh 
time this year opening with a presentation given by Brother Jim McTaggert on United Way. McTaggert encouraged the presidents to raise as much money as possible by soliciting student contributions. Student Saving Cards, which will give students a ten percent dis­count at a variety of stores were given to Hall Presidents. Student Body Vice President l)ra Kenney discussed the problems of long lines in the North Dining Hall. Members of the HPC agreed the problem was due to slow service. Council President, Mike Martin, asked if any of the dorms were having water problems. Only one water sample has been turned in to Rick Butler who is analyzing it for irregularities. The meeting closed with a series of announcements. 
John Stevens, Alumni President, told the Council that the Standard Review Committee is going to give a plaque, on a monthly basis, to the dorm with the most spirit. It was also announced that Sorin Hall will be holding a Pep Rally tomorrow night featuring Gerry Faust and also sponsoring a talent show Saturday morning. Both activities will be held on Sorin's porch. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's College will offer a study and tour program in India during the summer of-1982. The program provides an opprtunity to travel in India, Nepal and Sri Lanka while learning about the history. religion, art and music ofAsia. Today a representa­tive from the India office of tourism, located in Chicago, will he at Saint Mary·~ to discuss the study and tour program. The talk-and slide show, which is open to persons interested in the program, will be presented Carroll Hall at 7 p.m. The study and tour program in India will be held july !-Aug. 13,1982. Organized study will be conducted at the Dharmaram Pontifical Institute, a Catholic graduate school in Bangalorc. The study program will be interdisciplinary and studcms may obtain up to I 0 college credits. Travel will include visits to Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi, Madras, the Taj ·"1ahal, Ajanta caves, the 
beautiful valley of Kashmir, the tip of the continent, Cape Comerin and Kathmandu, the exotic capital ofthe tiny Himalayan kingdom of Nepal. Estimated cost of the program is $4000 and includes round­trip air fare from New York, double occupancy rooms in luxury hotels, all meals, air and ground transportation in India. For more information contact Dr. C. Pullapilly, His~ory Department, Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, IN 46"i"i6. -The Observer 
A pending presidentialorder would place fewer restrictions on CIA infiltration of domestic groups than an earlier draft that was shelved last March after a sturm of protest, govern­ment sources said yesterday. The latest plan, if signed by President Reagan, would replace restrictions imposed on U.S. intelligence agencies by President Carter in 197H. It would permit the CIA to infiltrate and, with the attorney general's approval, influence domes­tic groups, sources said. The CIA is barred from such activities under the Carter order. The .\larch Reagan draft would have permitted the CIA to intlltrate a domestic organization only if that action "is strictly limited in its natun:, scope and duration to a lawful purpose related to foreign intelligence." -AP 
A retired judgeand his wife complained that Delta wasn't ready when they were, and a jury awarded them 5208,000 for being bumped from a tlight -by far the largest award ever made to airline passengers denied their scats. A circuit Court jury on Monday agreed with former Illinois Supreme Court justice Thomas Kluczynski and his wife, Melanic, that they suffered "humilliation, indignity and outrage" when they were told all seat were fill because ofoverbook­ing on their Delta Airlines tlight to Florida on Feb. 19, 1976. · The award against the airline, whose advertising slogan is "Delta is readv when vou arc," was more than twice the amount requested in the lawsuit..Delta said it would appeal the award, which the Civil Aeronautics Board says is only the second jury award for airline humping. CAB guidelines current! t y require that airlines provide bumped passengers with an equivalent tlight for free within two 
hours of their planned departure time. The Kluczynskis had been invited to join Alberto Culver Chairman Leonard Lavin at his Florida farm to witness the birth ofa horse. -AP 
Congressional support for President Reagan's new round ofspending cuts faced its tlrst test yesterday as the House considered an S87. 3 billion appropriations bill which the ad­ministration deemed hundreds of millions over budget. The House voted 383-30 to cut S74 million from the measure, but the decisive vote was expected later on a Republican move to send it back to a committee drawing board in light of a potential presidential veto. Reagan's House allies argued that the appropriations bill for the department's of Labor, Education and Health and Human Services must be trimmed. "This is the best ofbills and the worst ofbills," said Republican Leader Robert H. Michel ofIllinois. "On another day and another time" it would have received nearly unanimous support, he 
said. But the bill "is excessive and the president surely will veto it," 
. Michel said in a speech on the House tloor. Reagan vowed last week to veto any "budget-busting" bills Congress sends him. -AP 
A heavy turnoutsu,rpriscd election officials yesterday as Atlanta voters went to the polls to pick a successor to Mayor Maynard jackson from among seven candidates, including former 
U.N. A1nbassador Andrew Young. Turnout was "heavy throughout the city," said Fulton County Elections Supervisor Tom ."lalone. "We could exceed 60 percent." Temperatures were in the 70s under sun­ny skies. Polls were to dose at 8 p.m. EDT. The ballot included City Council and school board races as well is the non-partisan mayor's race, which pitted Young against two other black candidates and four whites. Most pre-election observers expected that no candidate would get a majority of the vote, and many predicted an Oct. 27 runoff along racial lines, between Young and state Rep. Sidney Marcus, a businessman. Jackson, Atlanta's tlrst black mayor, has served two four-year terms and is prohibited from running again. He supported Young in the race. -AP 
Sunny and cool today, high in rhe mid and upper "iOs. Tonight dear and chilly with chance offrost. Low in the upper 30s and low 40s. Tomorrow mostly sunny and warmer. High in the low and mid 6os. -AP 
FOOD LINES: 

Residents ofGdansk line up at one ofthe largest supermarkets in town to buy food. Long lines were spurred by sharp price in­creases for a variety of consumer goods which went into effect despite the protests ofthe independent union Solidarity. 
MAKING A POINT: 

An unidentified woman points out something disturbing her to a Cleveland police officerasparentspicketed the school S}'stem's bus lots. 

ROYAL INSPECTION: 

A policeman he may be, but Con­stale Ray Curran's unusual uniform catches the attention of Queen 
Elizabeth. 

The_Ohs.eryer 
Design Editor.... ............. Gregory Swit'n.:z Design Assistants .... Tim ~t:c..·Iy Layout Staff........ .. .... Mike McCaughey TJ•pesel/er... .. ......\1ike Jans .\'eu•s Editor .................... Cathy Domanico Cop)• Editor. ................... Dave Ric:kabaugh Sports Cop)' Editor............. \likl· Ortman Typist . ....................................Jeanine Hynes .\)•stems Control .................. Bruce: Oakky .VD Day Editor.... . ........ Paul .\1cGinn S.WC Day Editor. ..............\lary Kay Hogan Ad Design ........ rran & <:orbs & Bob. etc:. Photographer ....... Chavl Ertel! Guest Appearances ......... Ed Konrady 
(~o Rtlation) 
Linda & L' 

The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation penods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Mary·s Col­lege. Subscnpt1ons may be purchased 
for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer. P 0. Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved. 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556. 


AP Photo File 

TRAPPED: 
james F. Dowd, 20, of Framingham, Mass., grimaces in pain Monday as workers struggle to free him from a high-tension line tower in Clinton, Mass. 
..-1111!!1!1!!1111 _________
-------~-----­
I RIVER CITY RECORDS 
1 Northern Indiana's :.argest Selection of Albums & Topes. I Why pay more any place else? 
1 $l.OO QFF!any regular record or tope with ad.
1 
Limit 1 per person
I Expires Oct.31 ,1981I 50970 US 31 North eOpen till 10 every night I 

The Observer Wednesday, October 7, 1981 -page 3 

Reagan readies ships, Deploytnent Force 
\X'ASHI:"J<;n>:-. ( AP) Tht: Rt·agan administration annoum:t:d yt:~tt:rday that t:kmt:nts of tht: U.S. Rapid lkploymt:nt fort:t: and t:.S. wan.hips in tht: :\kditt:rrant:an and :\liddk East "havt.· ht:en plact:d on in­nt:ased rt:adint:ss" in the wakt: of Egyptian President Anwar Sadat's as­sassination. 
Tht: ~tatement was rdt:ast:d hy tht: Pt.·ntagon and oft1cials there, ~pt:ak­ing anonymously, indicatt:d tht: ac­tions art.· intt:ndt:d as a warning to Libyan kadt:r :\1oammar Khadafy or anybody dst: who might ht: tempted to move against Egypt and take ad­vantage of any instability tht:re. 
Ekments of the U.S. Rapid Deployment force and U.S. warships 111 the :'vkditerrant:an and Middk Ea~t "have ht:en placed on incrt·ased rt.·adiness" in tht: wake of Egyptian Pn:sident Anwar Sadat's assassina­tion, the Reagan administration an· nount:ed. 
The statement was rekascd by the Pentagon and <'fficials there, speak­ing anonymously, indicated· the ac­tions an: intended as a warning to Libyan leader :\1oammar Khadafy or anybody else who might ht: tt.·mptc:d to move against Egypt and take ad­vantage ofany instahility there. 
On Capitol Hill, Secretary of State Alexander :\1. Haigjr. was quoted as ~aying that l.ihya may havt: known in advance of tht· assassination. 
"Wt: have full contldence in the 
Egyptian transition proct:ss," tht: 
statemt:nt said. 
Tht: Pentagon said it "has taken 
some prudt·nt steps. Ships in the an:a 
as well a~ some ekments of the 
Rapid Deployment Joint Task Foret: 
havt.· ht.Tn placed on int.-reased 
readiness. No unusual troop movc­
mt.·nt arc taking plan: in tht.· Unitt.·d 
States." 
One Pt·ntagon official said sonH: dt:ments of the RDF "have: ht.·en t:ontannl and requt:~tt.·d to takt: the IH"Cessary at:tions to haM<:n their ability to move, ifdirt.Tted to do so." 
The RDF \\'as formt.·d during till" 
Carter ;adminhtration to enabk tht.· 
I·nitt·d Staa·s 10 respond quickly and 
malitarilv to evenh in the Persian 
(,ulf 
The airborne division~ and sup­
port dnnt.·nl!'> total about ';6,000 
\VASHINGTON (AI')-Egyptian President Anwar Sadat was mourned yesterday across the United States and around the world, by leaders and common ti>lk, by Arabs and Jews, as a man ofcourage. honor and peace. 
Pt:rhaps the strongest testament to Sadat's words and actions afu:r his assassination wen: his enemit:s' chet:rs and the immt:diate spc:cula­tion about how his death might af­fect tenuous peace in the :\<Iiddle East. 

"America has lost a dose friend, the world has lost a great statesvan and mankind ha:o. lost a champion of peace," President Reagan said in Washington. "In a world tilled with hatrt:d, ht· was a man of hope." 
Prime ~I inister :'vlenachem Begin of Israel said he had lost "not only a partner in the pt·ace process. hut also a fric:nd." and other moderate kaders in the \Iiddle East joined Western lc:aders in t:xprt:s~ion~ of 
mourning .. \\'<.· hope the pean· prot.T~s. dcspitl· tht· •rud act of his enemies. 


Army troops. whik tht: :\1arint: 
brigade numbers about I 2.000 mt.·n. 
The administration statt·mc:nt. oh­viously ldt purposdy vague, did not specify what ships or ddlne the art:a rdern:d to in saying their readiness was hcing increased. 
However. ollkials indicatt.·d the statement meant primarily the .26 
U.S. warships and support vessels forming the li.S. 6th Fket in tht: :\1editerranean. They said no orders had heen issued ti>r any special ship movements and stressed, as the statement said, that no troop:-. were bdng moved. 
The crisis tlnds an unusually lar~c: ti>rt.·c: of U.S..\larines in the :\1editer­ranean in two amphibious units totalling some -t,OOO men aboard eight ships. 
The only lJ.S. aircraft carrier now in the :\1editerranean is the nuclear­powen:d Nimitz, which has bt:t:n making a port call in Venice, Italy. 

At the HPC meeting last night. Bm.joe .UcTag­gart, Associate Director of Campus .llinistry, 

World mourns President Sadat's death 

Brothers of the Holy Cross Vocation CounselingOn Campus 
How do I know if the Lord is calling me? 
+ 
How does Brotherhood fulfill my need for prayer, community sharing and service? 

+ 
How do I pray to discern the Lord's call? 

+ 
What are the Brothers ' ministries? 

+ 
How do Brothers respond to the needs of our day: committment to Jesus in the poor, oppressed , social justice? 

+ 
What is the formation program for the Brothers of Holy Cross? 


For information or to talk about these things, fee/free to call on me. 
Br. David Baltrinic, CSC Vocation Director 103 Columba Hall phone: 3215 or 6284 


will continue as we know Presidc:nt Sadat would have wished with all his hc:art," Begin said. 
\\'estern European nations joined in the lament, charactc:rized bv Frt:nch President Francois :\lii­terand's statement, "The world has lost ont: of the bt:st among us... 
Palc:stinians in the occupic:d \\'c:st Bank, however. sang and passed out candy at the news of Sadat"s death. Radio :'vloscow blamed tht: shooting on Egyptian "discontent" with Sadat's cooperation with the l nitnl Statt:s and Israel, and Col. .\loammar Khadafy's national Lilwan radio c:xultt·d: "t:n·rr tyrant has an t.·nd." 
In the: I ·nited Statt:s..\tcir Jolovitz. 
chairman of tht: Jewish Ddt:nst.· Lt:ague. t·alkd Sadat a :\lazi and PLO sympathizt:r and said, "We: cc:rtainly don't mourn the dt:ath of Anwar Sadat." 
:\I.T. .\lc:hdi. an lraqi-Amc:rican who said his Amc:rican-Arab Rda­tions CommitttT has -t'i,OOO nwm­bers, called Sadat "the: second shah in tht: .\liddk East," and prnlictc:d his dc:ath would t:kar tht.· way ti>r a Pakstinian statt.· and a ft.·deration of Arab nations. 
But in Plains. Ga.. timnc:r Prc:si­dent .Jim my Cartn escrihnl Sadat as ··a man ofgrc:at courage" and "a man of destiny." 
Cartt-r. who engint.Tred the< .•unp 
David accords bet\\Ten Sadat and 
Begin inquest ofpt:ace in till" :\Iiddle 
East. said tht:ir tlnal talks rt'\'l"alc:d 
··no sign offc:ar" in Sadat and said tht.· 
slain Egyptian lt.-ader was "admirable 
in every possible way." 
"A pillar of pt·ace in tht.· world has heen shattered," forml-r l'rt.·sident Richard Nixon said from his home in Saddle Rivn, :\1._1. ··sadat was the t.·m­hodimcnt ofhonor and loyalty in ad­versity." 
llenry St:igman. head of the American .lt.·wish Congrt·ss. c;allnl Sadat "a couragnJUs kadt.-r ami world ~tate~man \\hose t.·ftilfl~ ti lr peace in the .\liddk East desnn· the gratitut.k ot people and nations l'\'l"fY\\ ht.·re." 


Getti11gYourDegree? · 



CONGR4TU/ATIONS!
(got some1d1ere to go?) 

CareerPlacementRegistry(CPR) CanShowthe JtiLJJ 
you rea senior, you nllng soo/1-llnd 
everyone knows how much fun that is. 300 resume.1 ... sm·ing forel'er for Sllllllps .. . thar Iefler to Dreum Corp. you'1•e writren 12 times. You're hcginning to \\'oncler if 
you'll ever attract anyone's attention. . Why not let Dream Corp. come to you? CPR could be the ans11;er. We're an information service that will give o1·er 10,000 employers in -14 countries access to your complete records. (Any idea hall' much stamps for 10.000 letters 1\'ould cost?) 
Here's hoi\' it works: You jill out a short form, listing your career and geographic preferences, your special skills. your GPA. This information is fed into the DIALOG 
Information Rcrrie\'al Scrrice-a s\·srcmused h\' husine.\.\('.1' large and small, br research firms. ;/ccowHing aiul insurance companies, publishers, adrertisinR agencies, international and 
wultinmional corporations, must of the Fortune I ,000. 
Employers search through comflllter terminals fur a combination of factors. such as your degree, your languages, your extracurricular /)({ckgrotlllll. and so 011. lj \'Oil hm·c \\'hat 1hcv 
want, you 1nm"t lw1·e roger rheir mrention: · Thev'/1 come to \"011. Insta-nt access. in~l'fwlf searching. insrwtt results. All for $8. Contact your Plucenu:nr Office for details and stwlefll entry forms, or jill in the coupon below. 
I 1111 II IIIII I I I I 
Dear CPR: Please send me a student data entry form. 
Current Mailing Address-Street____________________ _____________State Zip ______ 
CAREER PLACEMENT REGISTRY 302 Swann Avenue, Alexandria, Virginia 22301 
The Observer Wednesday, October 7, 1 981 -page 4 

• • • Sadat 
anJ uth<:"rs W<:"r<:" wounded, indu.d­
adviser .\lans{>Ur Hassan after emerg­

continuedfrom page 1 ing tht· Belgian ambassador, Claude
ing from a mt:eting with six top oft1­Ruelle, and Ireland's defense minis­cials, including .\>lubarak. Asked bymadt:." 
ter, James Tully.
He said constitutionally mandated reporters if Sadat was dead or alive, 
Associated Press photographer
elections will be held within two Hassan said, "dead." He said the William Foley, who was on themonths. Until then, the government funeral would be held "in a few scene. said the attackers kept t1ririg
will be headed by the speaker ofpar­days." 
from the shoulder. and "no one was
The State Department said a lJ.S.
liament, Sut1 Abu Taleb. There were 
sure it was real for a few seconds. 
no outward signs of alarm in Cairo, Marine major, Jerald R. Agenbroad then all heII broke loose."
other than deployment of anti-riot of Bruneau, Idaho, an Air Force 
Sadat took over after the death of
police, which was considered a nor­lieutanent colonel, Charles D. Loney Gamel Abdd \:asser in 1970. Within
of Austin, Texas, and an Air Forcemal precaution. 
three years he crushed one internal
In Washington, Reagan said with captain, Chriswpher Ryan of revolt against him, expelled I"i.OOO
the death of Sadat ··America has lost Sacramento, Calit: were hit and Soviet advisers and started turninga dose friend, the world has lost a slightly wounded in the raid. 
Egypt's orientation from the Soviet 
great statesman and mankind has An Egyptian Foreign .\linistry oft1­llnion to the United States.
lost a champion of peace ... In a cial said Foreign Ministry officials world filled with hatred, he was a man ofhope," 

In Jerusalem, Israeli Prime Minis­tl·r Menachem Begin said he hoped the lJ.S.-sponsored peace process • • • Peace 
would continue "as President Sadat would have wanted with all his <lamental realities. President Sadat
continuedfrom page 1 

heart. I have lost not only a partner recognized these realities, but he in the peace process but also a didn't inherit them, and therefore
"Sadat has been the linch-pin of friend." these realities still exist for us to
our policy," said a State Department build on. I think it would be a ter­
But hard-line Arabs reacted with officiaL This is a very st·rious blow. joy, firing rifles in the air in Lebanon. While Sadat's fate was still in doubt, rible mistake for America now to give way to despair, to think that we
The Palestin liberation Organiza­former Secretary ofState Henry Kis­canrrot go forward."
tion's security chief, Abu Iyad, said singer said of him, "If there is an in­he would "shake the hand ofhe who dispensable man in the diplomatic

Laurence Ve_ysry, U. ofCalifornia-Santa Cruz, gave the third in a Egyptian Ambassador Ashraf
pulled the trigger." process, it is Sadat." 

series of 11 lectures sponsored by the History Department. The Ghorbal said his country will con­
First official word that Sadat was Later Kissinger said: "the Camp

topic of his talk was "Higher Education, Changes and Con­tinue to pursue peace in the .\Iiddle
assassinated came from presidential David process was based on fun­

tinuities." (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) East and close ties with the United 
States.
' f' ~:<lt:...f;~1;; :}}.:.~f: ;d~ ,. " ; ' : ~ :v 
Y. 
"Cairo had confirmed that it con­tinues its policies as charted by
GENERAl Foods· 
President Sadat and overwhelmingly
INTERNATiONAlCoffEEs 


supported by the Egyptian people." Ghorbal told reporters outside his embassy here. 
"The peace process under Camp David will remain the ... policy ofthe 

Free 
One Sample Pack with five deliciously 
country. A do~e relationship with

different one-cup servings. 
the United States will remain a cor­
nerstone of Egyptian policy."
GENERAl food'i' 
INTERNATiONAl CotfEE.S 
As the Egyptian ambassador faced reporters, the embassy flag was lowered to half-staff

Bapj!uccino 
ITALIAN STYLE INST AN1" COFFEE. BEVERAGE 


Israeili Ambassador Ephraim Ev­


Gratis 
ron said his government was "very much relieved" to hear that the

Creamy rich, with an orange twist. 
surviving Egyptian leadership feels bound by the peace treaty.
GENERAl food'i. 
He -said of .\1ubarak: "he was a
INTERNATiONAl CotfHs 


party to the whole negotiations. He was at President Sadat's side throughout this period. He was ob­
FRENCH STYLE INSTANT COFFEE BEVERAGE 
viously was in agreement with what 
Sadat did." He told ABC news, "I


Gratuit 
ONE CUP SERVING ' 
don't think there's any doubt he will

Smooth and light, French style. 
t()llow in President Sadat's footsteps." 
GENERAl food'i' INTFRNATiONAl CoffEE'i 
Though Sadat and Israeli Prime .\linister Menachem Begin signed the historic Camp David peace ac­
£~~;; ife/}'l/1'lfl 
cord in 1978, the final phase of the 
AUSTRIAN STYLE INSTANT COFFE;E BEVERAGE 


process, giving autonomy to the l .2 

Kostenfrei 
million occupied Arabs in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip, has remained elusive. 

Viennese style, with a touch of cinnamon. 
Sadat and Begin only recently
GEIIlERAI F-oods 
INTERNATiONAl Cotfff.'i 
agreed on new negotiations, which opened Sept. 2:~ in Cairo. Once there is an agn·ement on
Jrlih~ocha~nt 
autonomy, that would be followed
IRISH STYLE INS111NT COFFEE BEVERAGE 


by elections among the Palestinians

Saor 
for a self-governing authority. That would be ti>llowed by a five-yt·ar

Delicious. Like a chocolate after-dinner mint. 
transition period after which a t1nal resolution would be made on the 
GEIIlERAl Foods' 
future of the Palestinians.
INTERNATiONAl CoffEES 
But State lkpartment ofllcials
SuisseMoc~?a 
were encouraged at word that 
SWISS STYLE INSTANT COFFEE BEVERAGE 
Sadat's successor will be \lubarak. who was in Washington just last


Gratis 
week to conkr with !'resident
ONE CUP SERVING

Rich and chocolatey Swiss. 
Reagan. Tlll're was agreetllcnt yes­terday among diplomatic ob~erH-r~ that Sadat's death underscores thl'

~--------------------~
1 HAVE ATASTE ON US. 1 
instability in the \liddk I:ast and the 
potential fragility ofa plicy based on

To get your Free Sample Pack of General Foods" International I 
one person's leadership and in­

I Coffees. just fill in this coupon with your name and address and ( ,~11~·'11 
tluence. as I .S. policy was on Sadat's.

send it to: General Foods International Coffees Sample Pack . 1111 .<~~:1'., 1 1 
Stansticld Turner. a former Central Intdligcnce Agency direc­

I Offer, P.O. Box 4051. Kankakee, Illinois 60902. 
OENERAL FOOO&

I Name________________________________________________ __ I 
tor. expressed fears that Sadat's 

I 
c ~".::::>eneral Foods 
I 
death will result in "a tidd day t<1r

Address Corporation 1981 
the Soviet l 'nion." He said the Soviets willu;.e Sadat's

I I 
fate as evidence of what can happen

I FREE Limit one request per customer. FREE 1 to people who make frit-nds with the 
. This offer expires December15. 1982. ..1 
United States. 
... 



--------------------------· 

The Observer Wednesday, October 7, 1981-page 5 

Dept. Altbough this chipmunk is notfree to mum 1l'ith his friends. the u•riting on bis cage promises that he u•illnot be harmed. (photo by Chery•I Er left) 
Sadat assassination may sway AWACS opponents 
\\'ASIIINGTON ( AP) -The tlrst his strategists t(>r a heavy dos~· of congressional test of Presidl·nt prt·sidential lobbying. The s~·nate Reagan's arms sak to Saudi Arabia (iOP kadnship estimates it would was postponed )TStersday aftn the take that many switcht·s from the assassination of Egyptian President ranks of tlit· opposition and the un· Anwar Sadat, but there were signs committed to f(>rcstall a \'l'to. the slaying could sway some op-Senate lkmocratic kader Robert ponents to the administration's side. C. Byrd urged the Senate to "take a 
In the Senate, where the SH. '\ bit-step hack ... until we sn· how things lion package faced a t(mnidablt• fall into place." front of critics, Democrat~ and 
Sen. Alan Cranston, D-Calif., assis-
Republicans suggested the presi· 
tant minority kadcr and a leading
dent may now be ahk to argue more 
opponent of the sale. predicted
pnsuasively that it is essential to 
there would be a delay in floor con·
bolster moderate regimes in the 
sidnation. Any postponement
.\1iddle East. 
would require \X'hitc llousc agrn·­
The !louse Foreign Atl'airs Com­

ml·nt to intnrupt the timetabk tur·
mittee, meanwhik, put off at least 
ning to the Nov. I deadline. lkh>rl'
until today its scheduled \'Otl' on a 
Sadat's death. tht· \\'hite llousl· had
resolution to veto the ~ale. The 
written off charKl'~ f(>r a favorable
panel was still regarded virtually 
votl' in the llouse and ack­
certain to recommend that action. 
nowledged that -it faced an uphill
The deal can be killed only if both 
battle in the Senate.
houses disapprove it by :'llov. I. 
Hut there were cont1icting signals Summing up the changed dr­in the Senate. One of I':) Republican cumstam:~·s. Cranston said,"On tht· opponents immediately switched in one hand, it will he argued that if favor of the sak of A \\'ACS radar we've lost a friend in Egypt we must planes and jett1ghter equipment, and not jeopardiz~· out relationship with other senators suggestt·d the issue another country in the Mideast, 
• Foreign 
should be put off indefinitely for re­Saudi Arabia ... On the other hand, evalutation. Sen. Orrin Hatch. R­with the unstabk environment in 

due to her participation in . the becomes occasionally frustrating.
Dame are like in comparison to the 
program. Although she made what Because she represents the only 
rt·st of the world." Besides takin~ 
many might consider a significam Notre Dame student to go to 
cours~·s in Latin American literature 
sanifice by delaying her graduation Taiwan, she sometimes feels as 
and anthropolo~y. he took addition­
for a year, Patty nevertheless c.:n­though she is unable "to talk to 
al photo~raphy and art classes in or­
dorses foreign study because of"the anyone about what I did." 
dn to "broaden" his perspectives. 
totally different perspective on Although students who studied 
llis favorite experiences in Mexico 
everything" which she acquired. She abroad often t1nd diftkulty in 
included backpacking in Yucatan. 
advises students who contemplate readjusting to life at Notre Damt', 
and meeting "lots of imerestin~ 
participating in the foreign study the majority agree that their year
pt·ople." 
program "to make sure you know abroad makes up for the hassles. 
One of the major difficulties many 
what your program is offering llpon returning to Notre Dame. they 
~tudent~ encounter when returnin~ 
bd(>re you go over due to lack of no longer symbolize college stu­
to campus -readjusting to the 
communication in terms of grading dents, but rather ( in the view of Fr. 
Utah, said, ''I'm going to reverse my the :\1iddk East it will be argued that
continuedfrom page I unusual one: besides being the only casionally encountered whik in 
vote on A WACS and support the providing those planes with their
Notre Dame student to study in Tiawan." 
president. \\'e have to havt' the StTret l'l(Uipment to the Saudis they
Accordin~ to Shane Little, who 
Taiwan last year, she (an engineer­She claims redajustment to Notre 
safeguards this deployment makes." · will fall into tht· wrong hands. That
recently returned from Mexico City, 
ing major) plans to graduate one Dame student life "has not been that 
!latch was one of a dozen argument is underscored" by the
"it ~ives you a better perspective on 
year later than originally planned bad," yet Patty readily admits that it 
what the llnited States and Notre Republicans targt·tcd bv Reagan and shooting. 
:-.Jotre Damt· routine -failnl to par­
and class scheduling which I oc-Hesburgh ), "citizens of the world." 
tk'ularly affect Shane. lkcause he 

People join Tl for love of technology. They stay for a lot of reasons. 
One of those reasons is the Semiconductor Group, the world's leading supplier of semi­conductor components and materials. We will be on campus to talk with individuals degreed in a variety of areas which includes: 
• 
Computer Science 

• 
Electrical Engineering 

• 
Physics 


• 
Mechanical Engineering 


CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
Wednesday, October 7 and Thursday, October 8 
Stop by and visit with our recruiters on campus. You'll see why there's no place like TI for pioneering new technology. 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
INCORPORATED 
An equal opportunity employer M/F 
"came back ready to work hard I did not have any real problems becom­in~ accustomt·d to classes which w~·r~· taught in English rather than in Spanish." 
The experience of Patty<:ruz is an 


Today's 1Sammy' clue . .. 
llere is today's due to thb year's llomt·coming Search. "Sammy Could lk lliding Anywhen·": Drew l.cwis might be helpful in c.:xcavating the hiddt·n seminole. 
When you tlnd th~· answers to these dues. bring the int(>rmation to the Student l !nion oft1n·. sc.:cond 

applications fot the 1981 spring movie lottery ate now available In the student union office. 
..... 
applications will be due by 4 pm on Th~ts : Oct. 15 1981 In the student union office. 
lloor LaFortune Stud~·nt Center. The winner of th~· Search will receive 
STUCK IN SOUTH BEND
dinner for two at a local rc.:staurant. 
OVER OCTOBER BREAK? 


Caudill 
BREAK AWAY with BERTZ! as low as $119.00/week


to deliver 
These Economy Fares are 
Touring Rates, subject to 

lecture 
change without notice and non-discountable.· There are no minimum
William Caudill, t·hairman of the 
day and advance 
board of the Caudill, Rowlett and 
reservation
Scon, Inc. architenure t1rm of llous­
requirements, but 
wn , Texas, will deliver the second 
restrictions on when 
of the "Visitors in Architecture" 
and where cars must
lt-ctures at the University of :\lotre 
be returned. Gas is not
I>amt· at -l p.m. tomorrow in the Ar­
included. Call Hertz
chitccturt· Building Auditorium. 
for details. ~ 
Held in conjunction with the lt-cture series i~ a on-campus ad­vanced desi~n r~·view and similar lt-ct ur~·s in Rome. wht'fl' :'1/otre 
~ 
Damt·'s t(>rcign study program in ar­
· 
234-3712 at Airport chitt·cturl· is held. 
WHERE WINNERS RENT.
232-5871 Downtown 

HERTZ RENTS FORDS AND OTHER FINE CARS 
Wednesday, October 7, 1981 -page 6


Editorials 
P.O. Box Q ''No Fat Chicks'' letter draws heavy response 
Dear Editor: may be accused of blowing this one become aware of during our years Dear Editor: own what exactly you do with your­
I was deeply saddened and bewil­incident out of proportion, but per­here; that being a lack of sympathy, There are quite a few things awry self and how yo11 choose to live your dered after reading the letter ofOct. I haps this incident reflects the deep compassion, and love for people who with the views expressed in the letter life. ' which defended the ··No Fat underlying problem which many of do not measure up to our wholly per­by Pete Wuellner. The apparent con­Mark Donahue Chicks" incident. I realize that we us, both male and female, have sonal definition of "acceptable." cern for the physical abuse Cavanaugh Hall 
If the men who participated in this oveweight people are causing them­cruel game truly care about the health selves is somewhat hypocritical. It is of the human body, then l propose justified by a "Christian" moti va­
Reagatl media clamp 
that they should care even more tion of brotherly caring and solicitous deeply about the health of the human anxiety for the weight problem some spirit. No, destructive criticism will have -for ··if something is going Dear Editor: no1 r~~Jl. ,,,1ly patience and loving wrong, it is only right that something I agree with ~r. Wuellner that it is
serves 110 purpose understanding will. Why not care for be said about it and get it into the sometimes difficult to give pity or people and then help to effect a open," right? kind words to s\)meone grossly over­change by the power of this caring Wrong. A true Christian concern weight who does not seem to care
Many people wonder why Ronald rather than persecuting and victimiz­and kindness is caring for not only about himself. iTo justify the cruel,Reagan, who is supposed to be such a 
Garry Wills ing the very people who need the physical, but more importantly, heartless, and worst of all intentionalwonderful communicator, has only most love?
held three press conferences in eight 
None of us are perfect -that
months -far fewer than any presi­
would be dull. It is the uniqueness of
dent within memory. Outrider 
the spirit that makes each of us spe­
The answer is simple. His 
cial. Please do not expect perfection, 
managers are afraid to let him loose 
you will never be happy; instead try
quire some homework. Every presi­to love us as we are, and we in turn 
without a script. Even at his widely 
dent has helped rather than hurt will do the same.
spaced three press conferences, for himself with press conferences ­which he had plenty of time to 
C. Elizabeth Abeyta 
though Richard Nixon resented theprepare, he could not understand 
Badin Hall 
some of the much time involved in preparing for them. 
questions, less answer them. The Reagan managers, 
He came second to Reagan in the who worked so hard to keep him 
number of conferences he granted­from ad-Jibbing during his cam­
seven in his first eight . months. 
-
Dear Editor: 
Reagan is not only dumb, but lazy. ' rehearsed exchanges with the press. 
paign, would like to prevent un­
He does not want either his sleep or To Mr. Wuellner and those per­Ed Meese trid to block a 
his ingnorance disturbed. No wonder sons who donned "No Fat Chicks" !-shirts to protest against fat people:
journalist's question, during the he only comes before us to read 
scripts. your conern for other people's healthCalifornia vacation, with the Reagan's a may be praiseworthy. Your insen­
minatory: "You don't have to strength as com­answer that, Mr. President" municator is a dangerous gift. Presi­sitivity and the way in which you which, properly, conveyed the dents who are good at peddling express your criticism are cruel. And 
garbage just litter the national scene. why didn't you include "Guys" in His so-called economic program was your "No Fat" slogan?
Reaganites' fear that a) the president 
is not only too dumb to answer ques­tions, but b) he is too dumb to know sold on the strength of his per­Ellen Richiski he should not try to answer them. sonality. Just as people tended to Walsh Hall During the campaign, John Sears 
overlook the fact that he spoke non­sense in the campaign, because he is
tried to seal Reagan off from cam­paign activities. When Sears so willing to
fell nice, they were over­
Dear Editor: 
look the fact that his economicfrom grace, his successors made a 
I have a confession to make. I'm
proposals cancel each other out.
great show of producing the man. 
afraid that I completely misjudged
It was part of Reagan's niceness the intentions of the Ice Cream Guar­But they too had to handle (and 
not to tum down any of the conflict­dians; I honestly thought that they
muzzle) him, with Stuart Spencer 
ing made by were demonstrating their shallow­
given special duties in damage con­claims on him the 
supply-siders, the monetarists, thetrol after Reagan's comments on the 
ness and insensitivity, and now I
budget balancers and the defense read that they were inspired by God! 
killer propensity of trees, the fascist 
spenders. The people who wanted to You can imagine my guilt complex. 
nature of the New Deal. the movable 
this glamorous spokesman It's funny, I always used to think I
birthplace of the Ku Klux Klan, the use for 
cancelling of Darwin, and the purify­their own view went along with the emotional considerations. The acts of these "guards" is another 
other proposals long enough to get had a pretty good relationship with author actually hopes to spark some matter entirely. 
ing action of oil slicks. their foot in the door. God -you know, he acceped how l guilt in overweight people so they
Some people, in reaction to the 
looked and I tried to accept floods
But now it is apparent that not will go on to seek the "best" of Did any of you ever stop to think
Theodore White chronicles. have everybody can win (if anybody can), worlds-thinness. But who is to say what it may be like to be overweight? 
and poverty -but obviously I
criticized the extensive coverage of and the internal tugs are pulling misinterpreted and he's probably that thinness is the best possible Believe me, it is punishment enough
campaign staffs. But Reagan's cam­paign managers have become his Reagan's administration apart. been upset with me for ages. physical state? How can it be having to look at yourself in the mir­My reason for writing is that I
Those who want to arm at all costs determined from the outside which ror every day or trying to squeeze
presidential managers with no change in their style a! all. If Ed are already calling for new taxes. have a favor to ask of Pete and the makes the best person: thin, fat, or ·yourself into a pair of jeans already gang. Since you all have a working­
Those who want to save the supply­medium? How can it be said that three sizes larger than normal. It is
Meese did not wake Reagan for the side fantasy call for the gold stan­type relationship (being supervisors striving "to be the best. ... mentally, discouraging enough to have none of
Libyan crisis, that had its precedent dard. Those who want to balance the spiritually and physically" includes your peers respect you, but to have
under the Big Guy) I wonder if you
in the campaign. Jules Witcover and 
could ask God a few questions for
Jack Germond, in their fine book, budget call for defense cuts. Others losing weight? If the belief were them stage a way to publicly ··Blue Smoke and Mirrors," trace suggest Reagan "defer" balancing me? Forexample,just how long am I really true that one·· should do every­humiliate you falls just short of a going to be in purgatory for wearing
the budget. In the pressure to save thing in their power" to strive for nightmare come true.
the elaborate network set up to alert 
sweats to the dining ha11 all those
the Reagan people if any news of the one or other aspect of the these goals, the professor of such a 
··package.·· the whole thing is com­times? And, if I bought some Calvin tenet should reflect that view inward No one can imagine how difficulthostages' release was about to break. 
ing unraveled. Kleins and a few izods, would that first: for who can strive for the best in dieting is until they have tried it.
The system picked up a Reuters dis­
And why not'1 Many people said it decrease Q;IY sentence? This is all so the spiritual and mental worlds while Next time any of you think aboutpatch when the release was im­
minent, and relayed the news to was bound to when it was first an­confusing; it's hard to refocus from at the same time striking at embarassing people at the sundae nounced. You can no more combine internal to external values, but if someone' s less pleasant emotions to bar, try eating cottage cheese for a
Reagan's camp, where aides mulled 
that's what you think God is after, motivate them? week, or better yet, try not drinking
it for over those elements into a whole than you 
three hours before they can build a house by gluing ice to who am I to argue? A matter as deeply personal as the for a week. Chances are you would
woke the candidate. Reagan is the steel. Reagan made people forget Well, let me know what God h.1s to condition of on.:'s body is not an af­be back for seconds. 
glib spokesman, not the superintend­ing intelligence, of his own opera­that for a while, with his charm. It is say, and please keep up the good fair to get into the open, for the work; I'm sure God is proud of you.
not a thing we should be thankful for. general public to observe and then
tion. 
Timothy f. Hennessey

Ellen Hawley 
Unil'ersal Press Syndicate announce their opinion upon. And it
Press conferences are stacked in Howard Hall 
Badin Hall is one
the presidents' favor, but they re-no else's business but your 



Editorial Board and Department Managers 



==Ihe ObseLVer== 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor·in·Chief............................. .)ohn McGrath Photo Editor........................................john Macor 
~he (!bserver is an independenr newspaper published b\ the students of the 
News Editor ..................................Tim Vercdlotti
Umverstty of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessanl\ 
News Editor............................................. Kelli Flint Business Manager ......................... Rich Coppola
reflect the poltCies of the a~ministration of either insrirution. The news is repurrea 
Sports Editor .............................. Michad Ortman Controller ............................................ .)oe Mulflur 
as accurately and _as obJeCtively as posstble. Edttonals represent the opinton of a 
Features Editor..........................Anthony Walton Advertising Manager ........................... Mark Ellis 
maJor~ty of the EdJtonal Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the vtew" 
SMC Executive Editor........... Mary Agnes Carey Production Manager ...................Michad Monk
of thetr authors. Column space is available to all members of tht' communuv. and 
SMC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico Circulation Manager .............Tom ,\1acLcnnan
the free expression of varying opinions On campus, thr~mgh Jettt'TS. is encouraged. 
• 

Wednesday, October 7,..-1.,981 -page 7

Sports Brie/§ 
by The OhJ-ert•er and Tht• A.rroaated Prt•rr 
The Junior Varsity football team defeated Illinois Sunday, 17-6 at Champaign. The lrishJV, now 2-0 on the year, were lnl by a pair ofscoring tosses by freshman signal caller Ken Karcher. Joe Batudlo haukd in a -!6-yard TO pass and Mike Viracola was on thl.· receiving end of the other, a 19-yiirder. Junior wingback Tom 
Merrick. who pan:d Notre Dame to a 20-6 win over Purdue'sjV last 
week with I03 yards on 21 carries, suffered a knee injury and under­
went surgery that has ended his season. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame chapter of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes is sponsoring an evening with Irish baseball Coach Larry Gallo today at 8:30 p.m. in the Badin Hall chapel. FCA promotes Christian fellowship among athletes and coaches in hopes that this will be shared with the entire communitY. All arc invited to attend. -The Observer ­
See SPORTSBRIEFS, page 9 
INTERHALL 
Fall tenn1s tournaments are neanng a close Pa1nngs will conttnue to appear each week 1n The Ob­server. II IS the respons1b1hty of each partiCipant to contact h1s or her opponent and set up a match 1n each round Results of matches must be turned 1n to the 1nterhall off1ce (C-2 ACC) before noon on the following Tuesd~y Fatlure to report results w1ll mean disqualification of both partiCipants 
See SPORTSBOARD, page 9 
The Observer wrll accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p_m. the business day pnor to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, 
erther in person or through the nail.



Classifieds 

One bedroo•n furn1shed apt near NO. FSU STUDENT TICKET. 40 yd lme W1ll trade 2 GOOD Navy or GA Tech GAs FSU TIX FOR SALE. USC TIX NEEOEO. CONGRATULATIONS MK, 
Newly decotuted. pnvate entrance, 3053. for 2 GOOD Fla St GAs. Call Lew1s at W1ll make best offer or trade Call Larry WE LOVE YOU, $1 65/month. Call255-8505 or 259-4629. 1234daysor288·2961 a«er5:30. 277·3306 THE GANG -~~~ dUUK SHOP HOURS WED 
NOTICE~::J 
I need a nde to Milwaukee on Fnday.
SAT. SUN. 9·7 CASPERSON. 1303 2·3 BEDROOM APARTMENT FOR NEDD 2 FSU t1x. 2 GAs or 1 & 1 stud !IX
NEEDED 4 USC GAs 1n order to save Oct 16 (a her my 2mwl class) and back
TICKETS
BUCHANAN AD NILES RENT Carpeted. newly pa1n!ed. good VINCE !238
my ass Call M1ck 1178 
somet1ne Sunday I ve been tnvtled to aneighborhood Call287-8267 a«er 5p.m. 
wedding. and want to go I am also look1ngWILL TRADE 2 to 4 USC GAS FOR 2 to 4 Need USC and Navy GAs urgently CallNEED FLORIDA STATE GA'S. WILL for a nde to Milwaukee or Mad1son and
NEED 4 FSU TIX PLEASE CALL 5157 PENN ST GA'S. CALL AL 3549 

Chns 1222 

PAY ANY PRICE. CALL PAUL 8509. back almost any weekend 
call De~rdre at 8013 II you can 1 reach DESPERATELY
TO THE FOOL WHO STOLE MY TAPE WANTED. Two USC GAs. W1ll trade two NEED 3 GA TIX TO
FOR SALE Beach Boys Tickets. padded me at a decent hour. call at an Indecent

WANTED
DECK FROM THE ARKY BUILDING 
NAVY GA sand/or cash Call B1ll at 6839 FLORIDA STATE. WILL PAY $$$1 
seats. $9 each. call Bud 1502. one--I m hard to reach
THURSDAY NITE YOUR PLEASE CALL PAULA AT 232-8301. 
GRANDMOTER IS BEING HELD There Will be no turkey !hiS Thanksg1v1ngHelp need 6 GA. s for Flonda State. Call Need nde to Wilkes·Barre.PA tor Oct
HOSTAGE IN MY DORM YOU CAN WANTED. GAs FOR ANY HOME for th1s rooster 1f I don·r come up w1th 2 Need 4 FSU GAs Will pay b1g $. Call 
Kat1e 4631 (SMC). Break. Call Lynn x41·4220 
HAVE HER BACK WHEN MY TD IS GAMES. CALL PAUL 8509 FSU GAs Senous money and/or trade Jasper 1744 RETURNED JUST LEAVE IT 
for !IX for any other home game Call Ahab 
NEED Flonda State GAs. PAY MUCH$$ WANTED Trusty s1dek1Ck for la!e·mgh!
ANYWHERE THAT SOME HONEST AIDE NEEDED TO CONN. FOR OCT DESPERATE ALUMNI NEEDS GOOD
or Jane at 6889 or 277·4274 mghts 
Call 283·8598. bicycle !nps around the greater ND·SMC 
PERSON CAN FIND IT. OR IF YOU AVE BREAK PLEASE CALL 1500 TICKETS TO USC GAME CALL COL· grounds Must have access to a b1ke andTHE .. --S CALL I 678 SHE'S NOT LECT (BEFORE 2PM) JOHN DE ROSA
Need 2 FSU GAs Call M1ke 3260 be able to mooooo or quack W1U tra1n
Penn St ticket wanted please call Donna Senous cand1dates need not applyGOING TO LIVE MUCH LONGER Need ROOM RESERVATION for (213) 485·1100 
at6771P S I WANT THE TAPES TOOl FLORIDA STATE WEEKEND -Call I WILL TRADE ONE FSU GA TICKET Ryan II s 1ust not the same

D1on at 3573. I need GA tickets for Flonda State Please
FOR A FSU STUDENT TICKET ANOTH­
Make eno~gh .;;~~ey to ;~;;r~ form the ER GA ALSO AVAILABLE CALL URBAN PLUNGE · Deadline lor appiiCa· GOING SOUTH FOR THE BREAK? I call Dave 8923 
hastles of N D. I need four student !1x torNEED A RI{)E TO CENTRAL ALABAMA Need nde !~east Pi;& back for Oct bre~k 
CARLOS AT 1423 

!1ons IS tomorrow. Thursday. Oct 8 at 3USC and am w1111ng to pay mucho d1nero
WILL SHARE EXPENSES AND -to Read1ng or Ph1la area -w1ll share NEED GA. FLORIDA STATE TICKETS 
Call Dave 1696. 

DRIVING. PLEASE CALL ANGIE AFTER costs. Call Dean 8643 PLEASE CALL M J 41 ·44! 1 pm 
PLEASE CALL ME NEED 8 GA 10 30PM AT 3750 
FLORIDA STATE TIX. CHIP 7443 NEED RIDE FOR 2 FROM NYC AFTERNEED TIX TO PSU GAME! WILL PAY
Two wild girls need nde t~ .Gam~~~llle. I WANTED: FOUR GAS TO FLORIDA 
4PM OCT 25 CALL 8112 OR 8113 BIG BUCKS! CALL DAN AT 8428. 
OVERSEAS JOBS -Summer/year Fla. (or general VICinity) tor October STATE MONEY NO OBJECT CALL
NEED 3 NAVY GA TIX! PLEASE CALL round. Europe, S Amer.. Austraha. Asta. break. Will share $ and gas. Can leave HANK AT 1650 
CARRIE 8031! 

WE EACH NEED RIDES STEVE TOW1ll pay top$ for NO-USC gam~ tiCkets Need 6 tickets. best locat1on available All helds $500·$1200 monthly Sightsee· anyt1me Call Pam or Sus1e (and they'll 
SYRACUSE.NY AREA MARK TO USC GA !1x needed. Call M1ke 3686
1ng Free 1nfo Wnte IJC. Box 52·1N-4. leave a message for the Wild girls) at 41. WANTED. THREE GAS TO USC AM Please call collect (714) 835-6505 ask tor PUROUE·LAFAYETTE.IN AREA FORCorona Del Mar. CA 92625 5236 DESPERATE. SO CALL NOW CALL Tony Herenda or Judi Carlos FALL BREAK WILL SHARE EXPENSES HANK OR JIM AT 1650NEED TWO G.A FLORIDA ST TICK· !!! CALL 8317 MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Need many Flonda St GA's. Please call ETS WITHIN THE 20 YARD LINES. WIL·!!!-.. DESPERATE-.. !!! 
Student loans $20·$200. One percent In­Mark. 277·0692 NEED 2 FSU fix -student or GA Call
LING TO TRADE CALL MIKE AT NORTHERN NEW JERSEY IS WHERE INeed 2 t1x to see lnsh trounce TroJans
terest Due 1n one month One day wa11 T1m 1751.
277·6249 

WANT TO BE FOR OCTOBER BREAK
Also double occupancy room. Oct 23·24 BUT I M NOT GOING TO GET THEREOpen M·F. 11.30·12:30 1n LaFortune Will pay b1g bucks for 2-4 G.A Navy tick­If you have e1ther/or. When you THINK
Basement ets-please help Call Glenn at 3387. PENN ST TIX WILL BUY PSU TIX OR
NEED TWO G.A NAVY TICKETS UNLESS YOU GIVE ME A RIDE My tar·you have your BEST pnce. call Bob Daley TRADE FOR USC GAS BILL 212·759·
PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 277 ·6249 get area IS Nutley. but Ill take any
COLLECT. (212) 762·0242 I WILL NOT reasonable near-m1ss Call A1teen X3445REMEMBER -URBAN PLUNGE ap­Need nde to North Jersey tor break. Will 4846 
BE OUTBID! 

pllcallons are due by 3 p.m .. tomorrow. share$$ Bnan 3648. 
I NEED 2 USC GAS TOGETHER MOM 
Thursday, Oct 8 ..,. WEAL THY GRANDPARENTS need 2
ANO OAD S 25TH WE DOING ANNIVER· TWO GA FSU TICKETS. MONEY NO
NEED 2 GAS TO FSU WILLING TO PAY FLORIDA STATE GA sCall Bob at 3527
SARY GIFT -PLEASE HELP!! CALL M K of 436 IS a GREAT Cook! So 1s J.S s
OBJECT. CALL BOB 234·0418 TIM 1372 mom Thanks The Cookie Monster Sew1ng and alterations done by Joanne BIG $$$$ ALSO NEED 2 USC GAS. 
.............

272·8450 Great also for handmade g1hs CALLJOE AT 1 945 NEED STUDENT OR GA TICKETS FOR 
Need three GAs for USC please help! 
lor birthdays and the holidays' FSU WILL PAY TOP$ CALL LATE 289· 
PROMINENT CHICAGO STOCK· Hey Scroggers! What s the haps. dude?
Call3691.

Need nde to Evansville. IN area for break 3145
BROKER NEEDS 10 USC GAS WILL 
.. How s the rents? Where s your head at? 
. ... ..... ..
AMERICAN·LEBANESE CLUB an Impor­Will share expenses. Call B1ll at 8686 
PAY SUBSTANTIAL PREMIUM. CALL tant meeting on Thursday Oct 8. at 7 pm Need G A tickets to ANY HOME GAME
I NEED 4 GA TICKETS TO THE NAVY 312·621·3799 COLLECT. ASK FOR HAPPY 18th B-DAY Mana .. The Sleds 
GAME. CALL PETER 1222
at the International Student Lounge Hope Need nde to Prov1dence. A I over Oct. Call Pat at 1481
TED to see you all there Break W1U share expenses Call To Pa!!1 W (Badin s 2·faced.stuck·up
Need MSU and Ga Tech GAs Forsale.2F.SU GAs Callm,ke2187 wench)· Thanx tor keep1ng us 1n Lawrence 3122 
desperately. Call Paul at 1222. bus1ness1·MAYBELLINE & the guys nextRIDERS WANTED FROM PITTSBURGI-I FLA ST needed badly Call Joe 1744 
. .... ..
TO ND THIS FRIDAY AND BACK TO Need nde to COLORADO Spnngs. WILL Penn ST !IX wanted w1ll pay b1g $$$ or toZAHMNeed 2 GA·s for Flonda State. Call Stan
PITT SUNDAY CALL PAT AT 412·279· SHARE USUAL Call MARK 288-5208. Desperately need FSU GAs Please call 
trade Navy GAs Call M1ke 2187
3006 Kozak s back 2119AFTER 4 p m Joe 1492 
Help an underpriVII~~~d mmonty! G1ve a Need FSU TIX Please calli 827 No 11ve Jack
Helpl Need 2 or 4 NAVY GA S. Call Jon We all love h1m
needy F11ip1no a nde home for October Need USC student !1cket Please call me 
8892.

break. My homeland of Flonda awaits tor before you sell $$$ J1m 1 050 
Ja11 BREAK Oad IS break1ng out of 1a11 to That sa fact me Anywhere 1n the Jacksonv,lle­see the FSU and NAVY game I need two NEED MANY FSU TIX (GA) WILL PAY
jLOST/FOUND I 
Oaytona·Orlando-Philipplnes area! Will I NEED 2 GA TIX FOR FSU $$$ CALL
GA s for both games. Please help! Call So be cool here share usual (1ncl. nee and coconuts). Call DAVE277-5883
BIG BUCKS AND FIRST BORN SON 
Lynn at 6766 

Don t need no jeers 
CALL TOM 1175. And he II tell us bcutGreg (propnetor of the lovely ABAD HELP' I NEEO TWO NAVY GAs. CALLLOST a two tone blue sweat 1acket ABODE 1n Daytona Bch.) 8222. 
Wanted. Two Penn State GAs tor Our favonte spheres 
Need 1 F.S.U. Ticf\,e! Will Pay$$$. Call STEVE AT 8165. THANKS
Reward. call V1nce 1238 boyfnend s parents Help save a beautiful Joanne 284·5335 Need .nde to Maryl~nd for Octob~r Break relationship' Aileen 3445 Starlight. starbngh! 
To the k1nd -Need 4 USC 11x-Will pay$$ Call61 16 
gentleman who offered to CaiiL1sa at 41 ·541 1 Any old star I see ton1ghtTOP DOLLAR FOR USC GA CALL SUE SELL me back my lost purse Where were NEED 2 FSU GAS BIG BUCKS GREG Can zak be ngh! ? 
!SMC) 4889 

you last Fnday at 4 30? II send1ng me on a Need as many Flonda State tickets as Need 2 GAs and 1 student 11cket for FSU 
8377 The longer you wa11. the less you re Well he tust m1gh!wild goose chase IS your 1dea of a game. 1 possible for tam1ly. Call Julie at 277·8839. Call41·5773 I need 2·4 MSU or FSU GA TIX. for my 
go1ng to get So I may open my book tomgh! 
!h1nk 1! IS SICK Do you even have my Grandmama and Famtly to see!!! There 
Italian GRANDMA wants to see NAVY Will be a reward. and I am willing to wheel·
purse or IS the whole !h1ng a toke? I Need 2 USC GAs. $$ M1ke 1502 Ouant1!a!e Qualita!e
DON T THINK IT IS FUNNY!! A1ders needed anywhere along 1·57 to game. so do brother and parents Hell. I can 1 catch onand-deal. for 1f I don 1 l1nd any TIX. my
Memph1s area for break. Please call Grandma has plenty of money Need up
BADLY NEED 2 G As FOR FLORIDA But our man Kozak
Laura at 6896 a.s.a.p tamtly may not want to see me!!!! to 4 GAs Call John 36.lj.
I LOST MY DIAMOND RING ON SATUR· STATE CALL LEE AT 289·3822 He s ngh! on! 
PLEASE. PLEASE call6380 DAY IT IS VERY UNUSUAL. 2 
;·:~·;i·;,;··u··;;·c··;;~~~;~··~·~~·;;~·;;·.:::·~;~~~·~

DIAMONDS PLUS ONE LARGE PEARL· HELP! HELP! HELP! MUST get G A s 
NEED 2 GA FSU TIX. CALL JIM 289· RIDERS TO BOSTON. te BOSTON SHAPED OIAMONO WHITE GOLD IT and Student llx for GA TECH game!! help Call Glenn at 3387MEGA BUCKS for 2 FSU tickets. Call 
5311 

CLUB BUS has spaces le« $1 !0 2·way.
7745 $60 1 way Returns lor USC Call J1mWAS MADE ANO DESIGNED ESPE· PLEASE call Stephame at 4347 to get top No one will pay you more for 2 GA !1cke!s
CIALLY FOR ME I COULD HAVE LOST dollar for your !1x!l 
HELP! Need 1 stu . 2 Ga for FSU and 4 1528 or M1ke 8854DESPERATELY NEED 2 OR 4 FSU GA for the USC game Call8906IT IN THE AREA OF THE BOOKSTORE 
stu. USC. Call Lou 871 o OR UNIVERSITY CLUB REWARD NEEO RIDE TO CHICAGO (OHare). 
TIX!!! PLEASE CALL LISA AT 6848 BOSTON TAILGATER Sat Greenf1eld
URGENT I I need 2 student FSU !IX Need 2-4 GA TIX for any home game Call PLEASE CALL JEANNE AT 1·456·1311 WED OCT 14 J1m 277-3306 eve Call
I NEED FLORIDA ST GAs CALL BRIAN FREE REFRESH Look for MASS flag or
Mary 41·4276 IN FORT WAYNE PLEASE 

1073 s1gnPLEASE! I NEED A RIDE TO CONNEC· 
1210 

Lost Cream spnng 1acket w1!h elastic TICUT OR ANYWHERE NEAR THERE FOR SALE. Su1tcase Party TIX. $2 each BIG BUCKS SCOTT NEEDS: RUNCLSNEEO A RIDE TO BOSTON.
HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL FANS
wa1st. collar. and cuffs Lost 1n m1d sept WHERE I MIGHT FINO TRANSPORTA­and 1 U S C G A or student tickets Call
(hall pnce) Call Bud I 502 TAKE THE BUS Call J1m I 528 or M1ke
NEED FLORIDA STATE TIX Call Tom at 8854Call Bob at 3260 TION TO NEW HAVEN. CONN PLEASE Scot! at 8702 
3573CALL PETE 3049 

THE SMITH HILL GANG needs tickets for lost Black pop· up umbrella 1n rm 265 1n Will trade 4 FSU GA for 2 USC GA Call
Notre Dames date w1!h the Trojans. Con· NAVY GA DESPARATELY NEEOEO
PLEASE !!! I NEED TWO GAS FOR FSU 
old chem bid -1n m1d Sept. call Bob at I need a nde to west of St. Lou1s (or St Tony289·!916
stderable money wtll be spent to watch IMMED WILL PAY ANYTHING Call M1ke 3260 LOUIS) for Oct break Please call Mary ANO GA. TECH WILL PAY BUCKS CALL the show Call M1ke 0 at 8896 and earn 8854JOE 8886 
4873 SMC Need one FSU GA or student Bruce 289· 
some easy bucks LOST TWO GOLD RINGS AT THE 
1916 NEED 2 FSU TIX. WILL PAY $60 AND 
HEY1I ve got to have one Flonda St stu· 
ROCK EXTREME SENTIMENTAL Need 2 nders to NYC or v1C1n1ty 1eav1ng I NEED TWO FSU GAS. CALL JOHN dent ticket Will def1Mely talk terms CallUP ED 1208 
VALUE IF YOU HAVE ANY INFORMA· Oct 14 A M Call E1leen 4602 or Donna URGENTLY NEED FOUR FSU GAS
277·5329 

M1ke at 8896 TION PLEASE CALL CINDY 314! 4455 
PLEASE CALLJACK AT 1100 NEED 3·4 FLA ST GAs FOR FAMILY WILL PAY TOP$. CALL TIM 277·7590 
NEED 2 FSU GA TIX. PLEASE CALL It was L·O·L·A who threw up 1n the lobby 
HELP' AILING GRANDFATHER HASLOST BROWN TWEED BLAZER IN NEW JERSEY Need a nde to New Jer· 

SHIRLEY AT 8661 BEFORE 5 P.M. CORBY S SAT NIGHT CALL sey and a nde back AFTER the USC NEVER SEEN NOTRE DAME PLAY 
II MICK JAGGER won 1 do 1! CC w.1ll!!
Urgently need 2 student or GA tickets for NEED TWO NAVY TIX FOR HIM ANO ACAROLINE 4 I ·4968 game Karen41·4991 orKev1n 1478 NEED A STUDENT USC TICKET?
USC Game Will pay 1n U S. Dollars DATE CALL2103 Steve 234·1539. 
GOES TO THE HIGHEST BIDDER Thank you. thank you. THANK YOU to all 
LOST LADIES SEIKO WATCH -RIDERS needed to EXIT 13 of the Oh1o 
CALL277-2248 who helped make my 21st birthday so BLACK LEATHER BAND -CALL Turnpike (KENT) for Break Leavmg Oct wonderful. especially Dave. Jane. JohnDespera!ly need 1 FSU and 2 USC T1xEILEEN 4602 SMC 16 and return1ng for USC Call BUO at I need 4 GA or STUDENT tiCkets for the Greg. and Chns Your generos1ty w111 be
I.all Buzz 8265 FSU game CALL DICK at 277·6065 remembered for a long 11me to come 288·6251 


PERSONALS 

LOST Plastic picture holder from my wal· 
HELP! AILING GRANDFATHER HAS let I MUST have II back! II found PLEASE 
NEVER SEEN NOTRE DAME PLAY DESPERATELY NEED FSU OR USC return to LARRY KLINK (alias Greg F) GO PROFESSOR ROOS -STAY
NEEO TWO NAVY TIX FOR HIM AND A TIX. CALL PETE 233-8091 eye wubbu Phone !592 
AWAY FROM THOSE GIGS -YOU
DATE CALL2103 
CANDO IT'!


FOR SALE 
NEEO 10 GA FLA STATE TIX CALL THE ALIEN IS COMING'! Thursday, Oct FOUND BLUE & TAN VEST FOUND IN NEED ONE FSU STUDENT TICKET LESLIE 277-2244 8. Fnday. Oct 9 at 7.00.9 15, and 1 1 30 1n
DARBY S PLACE IS OPEN TONIGHTGRACE 1694 PLEASE CALL TONY AT 3588 the Eng auditorium Adm1ss1on

FROM MIDNIGHT UNTIL THREE IN THEATTENTION PHOTOG­NEED GA TX FOR FSU OR ANY GAME. $1 Sponsor by tumor class

LAFORTUNE BASEMENT RAPHERS ..... FOR SALE: An Omega B· 

1 FSU STUDENT TICKET NEEDED CALL 4436 SMC. 22 enlarger w1!h copy stand and 36 
PLEASE CALL CARLOS AT 1423 $$$$ -JANE. -LADY (YOU BRING ME UP) 
column Th1s IS IUS! the condenser head F·c;,;..'T·i;;···,~E.Eo.Eo ..s.ruoE'Nr···PREF. CASABLANCA 
-THANKS. -PAT and copy stand No lanse mcluded. but 

FOR RENT 
CASABLANCA

NEED 2 PAIR OR 4 USC GA TIX. $$ DAN 1694 head takes any standard Omega enlarger 
CASABLANCA

CALL LARRY 8253 I have 5 GREAT tickets (ROW 14) lor the lanse Pnce $25 Call John Macer at 
SEE IT AGAIN!!'

HELP' Need Many FSU T1ckets For My BEACH BOYS CONCERT MAKE OF·Student hous1ng clean safe laundry Tues. Wed·-Oc! 6.7
1715 or 8661 and leave your name and Need 2 or more GAs for Flond.a game Brothe.r And Fnends From FSU' If You FER Call JIM at 8774kitchen rated supenor $I 00 1ncludes all 7.9.11 Eng. Audnumber Call E1leen 41·4420 Have Extras Call Kathy At 277-8839291·1405 
• _____________-! 
The Observer -Sports 
Wednesday, October 7, 1981 -page 8 
NL West 


Ryan, Ashby star in Astro win 

HOUSTON ( AP) Houston catcher Alan Ashby clubbed a two­out, two-run homer over the right field fence in the ninth inning, and Nolan Ryan shut down Los Angeles on two hits to kad the Astros to a 3·1 victory in the first game of their Na­tional League West Division playoff last night. 
The second game of the best-of five playoff series is scheduled for this afternoon with Houston's joe :'llickro tiJ.Cing Los Angeles' jerry Ruess. 
Ashby's two-run shot came off Dodgcr relief pitcher Dave Stewart. who relieved starter Fernando Valenzuela in thc ninth. Stcwart, 0·1, struck out Caesar Cedcno to start the inning, and then got Art Howe on a fly ball to Ken Landreaux in cen­ter field. 
But pinch-hitter Craig Reynolds then hit a single to shallow center field before Ashby came on and hit the first pitch thrown to him by Stewart into the Astrodome's mez­zanine level. 
Ryan, who pitched a record­breaking fifth career no-hitter in his last start against the Dodgers, . finished with seven strikeouts and allowed only a first-inning single by Landreaux and Steve Garvey's seventh-inning home run. 
Valenzuela, who befuddled the Astros on two hits through five in· nings, weakened briefly in the sixth when the Astros scorcd their tlrst run. 
Terry Puhl walked with two out, went to second base on Phil Gar­ner's walk and scored when Tony Scott blooped a single to shallow right field just out of the grasp of second baseman Davey Lopes. Lopes charged into the outfield, but the ball fell safely off the tip of his glove as !.andreaux in center field and Rick Monday in right looked on. 
The Dodgers quickly tied the game with two out in the seventh in­ning when Garvey drove a home run over the 400-foot mark in left-center field. 
Valenzuela, the 20-year-old Na­tional League strikeout champion, and Ryan, trying for his second straight victory over the Dodgers, dueled closely through the early in· nings. 
Ryan yielded one hit, walked one batter and faced only one more than the minimum 1 5 hitters through the tlrst tlve innings, while Valenzuela permitted only two hits in that time. 
Ryan gave up a single in the tlrst inning to Landreaux after Lopes led off with a groundout. Dusty Baker·~ bouncer hack to Ryan started a double play that ended the inning. 
After walking :VIonday in the second, Ryan retired the next 16 hatters prior to Garvey's seventh· inning homer. It took a pair of nice running catches by Houston outfiel­ders in the fifth inning, however. to keep the string alive. 
Pedro Gucrrero hit a long fly to Scott in center field and Mike Scios­cia's tly ball sent Terry Puhl to the warning track in right field for the catch. 
Valenzuela was just as effective against the Astro~ in the early going. He allowed the ·first hit to Caesar Cedeno in the second inning and Art Howe singled in the tifth. Valenzuela r-etired nine Astros bctween the two hits and necded ·only five pitches to put down Houston in the fourth in­ning. 
The Astros threatened again in the seventh inning when Cedeno led off with a double down the left field line and ~tole third one out later when hc caught Valenzuela looking toward first base. Cedeno slid safely into third when Valenzuela finally spun toward third base too late to make a throw. 

Norris , Gross do it all as A's blank Royals 

KANSAS CITY (AP) -Wayne Gross hit a three-run homer, and Mike Norris, who twice escaped bases-loaded jams, limited Kansas City to four singles, leading Oakland to a 4-0 victory over the Royals in the opener of the American League West Division playoffs yesterday. 
Gross slammed a 2-1 pitch from right-hander Dennis Leonard over the right-field fence in the fourth in· ning. All three runs were unearned because of a throwing error by third baseman George Brett on what would have been the third out ofthe inning. 
Leonard, who had shut out the A's the two previous times he faced them this season, surrendered only seven hits in his eight innings' work. 
Dwayne Murphy hit a 3·2 pitch for a solo home ru:1 with one out in the eighth. With one ·out in Oakland fourth, Murphy drew a walk, the first given up by Leonard. After Kieth Drumright grounded out, Tony Armas hit a sharp grounder to Brett, whose throw bounced in the dirt. First baseman Willie Aikens was unable to keep his foot on the base, and both runners were safe. 
Then Gross, who hit only .206 for the season, slammed a Leonard fast ball over the right field fence, aided by a strong wind. Leonard, 13-1 I for the season, had retired eight straight batters until walking Murphy. 
:'IIorris, who won his first six deci­sions of the year and finished 12·9, consistently handcuffed the Royals with an array of offspeed deliveries. He struck out two and walked three. 
The Royals, who won the sect ond· half division title but finished the season 50-53 to become the only sub-.500 team in the playoffs, squan· dered scoring opportunities in the third and tlfth innings. 
Clint Hurdle walked leading off the third, then :-./orris threw wildly to second hase when john Wathan attempted a sacrfice hunt. Both run­ners were safe. One out later, Willie Wilson bunted safely to load the bases, but :'IIorris got Frank White to ground to third baseman Gross, who got an easy ti>rce out of Hurdle at home. Brett then c:nded the inning with at fly hall to shallow center. 
Hurdle singled leading off the fifth, Wathan walkc:d and ll.L. Wash· ington bunted safel\" to load the bases with none . out. Again, howcver, Norris escaped. He got Wilson on an infield pop up. Then White hit a line drive straight at Gross, who turned and doubled Wathan offsecond base. 
The Royals got a big scare in the fourth when Brett and Wilson, two of their bcst run producers, ran into each other chasing a pop t(ml and collapsed in a heap at the fence he· hind third basc. Both stayed down 
several  minutes  while  worried  
teammates  and  team  officiab  
hoverc:d over them.  

Both got up and rcsumed play. 


' ' ' Items 
continuedfrompage 12 
game more than last year. Gerry Faust's Irish have passed 27 percent of the time ( 75-of-277 plays), while last year's team had passed only 23 percent of the time ( 69-of-30 I plays) through four games of the 1980 season, a percentage which thev maintained until year's end. 

Notre D{une's Maureen Moran u•as on her toes during last week's 
loss to Saint .Wa1Ji'S, in a mati:h played in the ACC Pit. (photo by 
Che1J•I Ertelt) 
I In commemoration of the 25th anniversary of 
-----------------,I 0 'laughlin Auditorium 1 
I ~()~~~ Ulll() J ()IC I. 
lconducts the Saint Mary's Wind Ensemble I 
I . and Collegiate Choir· 1 Fnday, October 9 at 8 : 00 -Little Theater andl Sunday , October 11 at 2 : 00 -0 'laughlin 1 
I All member~ of the. SlYIC-ND 1 commun~ are mvtted ..I
I 
SACRED HEART PARISH 
....,...____SIN81------­
we are now forminf; Choir for the 9 : 3 0 Sunday Mass in the Crypt. Rehearsals are each Wednesday at 7:30p.m. in the Crypt. 
All voices welcome --come share in a special musiical experience! All students welcome (faculty & staff, too~ of course!) 
Sunshine Promotions presents AN EVENING WITH 


Dan Fogelberg 

TO u R 9 8 
Dan Fogelberg's Band includes: 
Joe Vitale Mike Hanna Kenny Passarelli Mark Hallman Russ Kunkel Barry Burton 
Wednesday October 28 Sp.m. Notre Dame A.C.C. 
All Seats Reserved Sll.50 and Sll.OO On Sale now at: A·C.C. Box Office, Robenson's-South Bend & Concord Mall, St. Joe Bank-Main Branch, Firt First Bank-Main Branch The Elkhart Truth and Suspended Chord in Elkhart ' 
Special Guest:SANTAN A 
Tues~ay -.December 1, 1981 * 7:30p.m. Pontlac S1lverdome * Pontiac, :Michigan 
$1.00 OFF! All Rolling Stones U~d Santana albums ud tapes now at both River City Records 
Limiud number of package tickets now on sale at River City Records 50970 U.S. 3lli'orth 

For more information call 277-4242 

continuedfrom page 10 
Pan graze. 

Petcrs paced the Irish with a I 55 
total ( 76-79 ), t(>llowcd bv senior 
Bob Horak's I'i 7 ( 78-79 ). f:erlmann 
(83·7 8 ), Moorman ( ""'"7.84) and 
Scully (81-80) each shot 161, and 
Leyes 163 ( 79-84 ). 

Rounding out the squad arc fresh­men Tom Knee and Chris .\1ondaro along with sophomores Joe Celarek and Casey Cunniff. O'Sullivan's 
squad is quite young with Horak as the only scnior. 

ROLLIIG STOlES 
• • • Golf 
The Irish have an almost perfect blend of youth and experience and appear poiscd to make that elusive trip to the NCAA championships. The last time the Irish were in the ;'1/CAA's was 1966. 
"I've got my top scven going into the spring," O'Sullivan said. "What more can you ask t<.Jr?" 
The Irish must now prepare for the spring season after . a strong showing in the fall. And don't be surprised if Notrc Dame's name is mcntioncd among the top teams in the .vlidwest. 



The Observer -Sports \Vednesday, October 7, 1981 -page 9 
Time has come for CF A 
Perhap~ you nmicnl in th1: puhlic prints \\ ht:r1: 61 major t<>othall ~choob in thl· U.S. havl· r~:bdled against thl· National Colkgiat~: Athletic As~odation and thrl'aten to form their own institutional governing body, the bcncr to get tdcvision, money, grandma. 
\X'hat I wondl·r is. what took th~:m so long? 
The :'IJCAA is an irritating bunch ofsdf·satistkd ovn­~eers who haVl' tweckl·d the nosl'S of lt:kvision for so long that they considt:r it like a pet retriever. They say "l'ctchl" and it goes and ktch~:s. 
Listen! lhlw thrilled were you w know you'r~: getting that annual fall classic Appalachia State vs. The Citadel on a national network last Saturday' Or, would you have prdi:rred that stirring rl·newal ofthe ancient rivalry be­tween jackson State and Mississippi Valley State? .\1ayb~: you wanted San .Jose State vs. Cal-Berkeley? Or did you prdcr Orq~on Stall' vs. :'vlinnesota? . 
Till' nl"lwork, ABC. gaVl' us \ :sC-Oklahoma later 111 the Jay. l'inc. But, th~:rc wa~ a catch. With USC going ~m national television against Oklahoma, that used up Its options to the point it cannot now be televised against Notre Dame or UClA later in the year. The network must ('hoose one or the other of those games. It cannot tdevise both. Presumably, on Nov. 21, instead of USC­UC :lA we may be getting San Jose State vs. Long Beach State. 
Sez who? Scz the NCAA. They're the program direc­tors in this cockeyl·d TV series. They'r~: the only ones who even know where Apalachia State is. 
Network television is an otherwise all-powerful con· glomerate. Its customer is everyman, woman, and child in America. It ordinarily controls what it puts on the air. With exceptions. Its deal with the NCAA is one oflhl·m. 
Years ago, when ABC won the bidding -such as it was -for NCAA football. it had to make compromises. One ofthem was, it had to let the NCAA dictate product. This necessitated restrictions which were largely gal­ling to the network and infuriating to the rest of the country. For instance, on a Jay when Notr(' Dame would be playing Michigan State or someone else for the national championship, the western region of the network would most likdy be getting Brigham Young vs. Boise State. Or Utah State. Even the alumni of those worthy institutions would rather have been watching the Notre Dame game. It's for certain any non-Morman cast ofSioux J'alls would. 
It doesn't make any sense. It's as if a network con­tracted for a fall season of Charlie's Angels and had to altnnatl' l'pi~odes with a high school performance of The Pirates ofPenzance. <)r, ifSugar Ray Leonard could makl· only one appearance on national TV a year. 
It was the conceit of the NCAA _that a tell-vision 

lm Murray
Sports Writer 

Best of 1m Murruy 
audience was interested in the football fortunes of its sub·h~· League institutions -schools with 14,000 hlcad1cr scats and uniforms that look lik1: costumes for a road company of "Brother Rat." The left halfback might he willing to die hJr dear old Rutgers but ABC didn't want to. They'd be b~:tter off televising opera on Saturdav afternoons. 
The ,;etwork hand of NBC is bloodily visible in the breaking off of the 61 major institution~ which formed the Collegl· Football Association, the secessionist group ~plintering oil' from the NCAA, but you have to think ABC and CBS, who now have NCAA tic-ups totaling S263 million for four years, arc not all that displeased, either. 
The 61 schoob who broke off from the NCAA com­prise the football factories of the nation, minus the Big I0 and the Pac I0. The sneer went immcdiatcly up from the Establishment that this new league would just be the NFL South. but the facts ofthe matter are thl· NCAA is a cumbersome 900-member association, and there's no way that Walt Byers, the executive director. can ever make The Citadel, or even East Horshoe State a household word. 
The new association would be a break for the viewing public, but it would he a bigger break for the member institutions. Some conferences require their members to share television money; so, you would have the spec­rack of a llSC, mainraining a multi-million dollar foot­hall program, and filling the Coliseum every Saturday. having to share revenue with a Northwest School which is running a scaled-down, mini-Ivy League operation, and having only to sell out Pullman or Corvallis on al­ternate weekends. NBC's S I OH million four-year package has the virtue ofguaranteeing every member of the CFA a million dollar~ over the life of the contract. 
Well. for once, the little old viewing public can't lose in a controversy. One oftwo things can happen; th~: CFA will make good irs threat and secede, automatically upgrading the content of Saturday afternoon football programs; or, the NCAA will recast its restriction~. reor­ganize, and, in irs own defense. put on a big time show on Saturday. Let someone clse die ti>r tkar old Rutgers. not our ratings. 
(c) 1')81, Los Angele•· Times !l:)'ndicate 
• • • Sportsboard 
Slraub (6931 )/Sw•ec<ak t4633) v Eichenlaub Yesterday's Results continuedfrum pa?,e 7 (8773)/Hemmg (2956) NATIONAL LEAGUE Runger/Schmtdl-bye Wesl Division W•ll•ams/Ford-bye Houston 3. Los Angeles 1 (Houston leads. 1·0)
Men's Open Singles (Quarterfinals) 
Round-Robin Grad-Faculty Mixed Doubles AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Dam1an Mdrshall \1 509) v Rob Ebert (6427) 
Roberts/Phill<ps (282·1 029) Pashley West Division 
Jack E<senbe•s j1 058) v Donald Zelazny ( 1761) 
(6584)/Fre~rer (287-6738) Oakland 4 Kansas C•ly 0 (Oakland leads. 1·0)
Kev<n 0 Bnen (1767) v Pal Collons 11201 I 
Jones (8827)/Weeks 1 7365) .v Today'a Games 
Andy Sm<lh (3443) v Mark Murphy (3338) 
Apergh1s/Derengosk1 (277· 7325) 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Men's Singles Novice (Final) 
East Division

Barry Fay ( 1028) v Pal Toole (8609) 
Ph1ladelph1a (Carlton 13·4) al Montreal (Rogers
Women's Singles (Semifinals) 
BASEBALL 
12·8). 12.05 p m.
L1nda Radler (2948) v Sue Gordon (8027) 
West Division

Lou<sa Demello -bye 
Los Angeles (Reuss 1 0·4) al Houslon (N1ekro 9·9).
Mixed Doubles (Quarterfinals) 
DIVISIONAL PLAYOFFS 710p.m !Houston leads. 1·0)
Demello (1261) /Clark (1062) v Gergen 
(Beat-of-Five Series) 

(3321 )/Hackelli6752) See MORE BOARD, page 10 

' Price 
''THE MBA, 
BOSTON AND YOU'' 
co/llilltletlfmm pa~e /.! 
the top player~ available to 
Meet with 

recruiter~ this ~l'ason. IIi~ older 
representatives from 
brothl'r. Jovan. \\Tilt trom .\!arion to 
l'l!i MBA BABSON
the following 

Purdue..whl'rl' ht· hccaml' the cap· 
\1'9 COLLEGE 
tain of thl' 19'2·~5 Boikrmaker 
Boston-area colleges 
tl·am. 
and universities 

\Iarion lllgh ~dmol (not to Ill' 
offering graduate 

nmfu~nl with \larian Iligh School ot .\I i~ha\\ aka). 1s onl· of thl' most 
management 

~ Boston Colleg£'
n·~JWl'lnl haskl'thall ~chools in the 
~(;radual(' St·hool uf \tanagt>mt•nt ,tate. Coach !\ill (irnn kd thl' team to hat k·to-hal·k 'tall' ch.unpionship~ 
programs. 

WEDNESDAY. OCTOBER 14TH 
111 1')''1 and '7(,_ <irl'l'n has aho hel'n 2-4:00 p.m. 
~------------------------~ 
in~trumental in Phdps' dcvdop· 
MEMORIAL LIBRARY LOUNGE 
GRADUATE SCHOOL

nH·nt of thl' Irbh match-up zonl' 
M
JJ\ 
OF BUSINESS

ddl·nse O\'t·r thl' pa~t ~cvnal 
~ ADMINISTRATION 
't(.'it~()Jl~. 
Opening Panel Presentation 
NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY
PritT hdpnl .\!arion to a 2·1·.'> 
discussing:

rl'cord la~t ~<'ason. and his ':)'1<> 
• MBA Curricula 

l·arl·t·r points aln·adv ranb him 
• Management Career Paths 
fourth on thl' Ji,t of all tillll' high 
• General Admissions 

snlrl'f~ 111 \!arion hhton·. l.a~t 
Information 

,t·a~on alonl'. Ill' ~corn.l ·12.'> points. ".lol· i~ going to havl' a grl'at ctrlTr 
Followed by aquestion 

.11 :\otn· Dallll'." ~a\·s l'hdps. "and 
and answer session 

"l' an· \Try happy t<.l announce that 
with Program Representatives. 
hl''ll hl· playing l{>r us." 

Houston .4.~tros pitcher .Yo/an Rvan, picturecl here celebrating after nu-bitting Los Angeles less than tu·o ll'e(•ks ago, continued bis mastel:)' oftbe Dod?,ers last night. See storv. page 8. (AP phuto) 
• Sportsbriefs 
continuedfrom page~ 
The ND-SMC golf team dcfl'atl'd I.oras Collegl· 
(Dubuque, Iowa) by a whopping"' 5strokes. '1'-1"1.')':)0, Sunday on till' Burkl' .\1cmorial Golf Course. :-.lotrt· Daml''s Louise :'vludd kd tht· ;\;!)I S\tC team with a') I. Lor as' Kathy Buchhl'it was ml·dalist with an H"". -The Obseruer 
Practice tiJr the :\lotrt· Dame Women's Softball Club has hlTn cancl'led for this week. Thne will bl' a 11/ti/U/ator)' meeting ti>r all old and nl·w llll'lllhl'rs next Tundav. October I5. Tinu· and loct· tion will he announced. Call Karen Aiig ( '7-!0 I ) for more informa­tion. -The ()!Jsen•er 
Scuba divers or pcopk intcrestnl in karning morl· about it arc invitnl to an organizationalmlTting for the Notre Dame St·uha Diving Club tomorrow at "1:50 p.m. in Room 2-1> (offthl· ballroom} of LaFortune. For mort· information. call Rob at 2H<)·'1.'> 17. -The Obsen•er 
Women's track team practil'l'S have startt·d. In­terested :-.Jotrt· Damt· studt·nts should meet at '-1:50 p.m. outside the gate to the track hehind the ACC. l'or mort· inlimnation. ctll Lisa \1onti ( H091 }. -Tbe ( )fJSt'rl'er 

URBAN PLUNGE 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE FROM CAMPUS MINISTRY OFFICES OR YOUR HALL REP. 
DEADLINE: THURSDAY,OCTOBER 8 at 3:00P.M. 
.. 

•There will be a general meeting for all : :those interested in working on ~ e
. .
~ 

:JUNIOR ••••••••••••: :••••• P ~RENTS •••..: :•••••••--·•• WEEKEND: 
• Date: Tbursda_y, Oct. 8 • e ,a Time: 7:00pm e 
• fi"' Place: LaFortune Little Theatre :
.
•••••••••••••••••••••••­

The Observer-Sports Wednesday, October 7, 1981 -page 10 
Eye spring 




Boilers squeak past Irish 
~t-*********** 1'(*********"""'**************************1{ 
~  ~  
****'*  eooc.\t  REcoRos  **······  
** **·  ~Jf  

_..Jf 

.. 

DEVO· 
Q:Are We Not Men?A:WC!! Are Devol Includes Uncontrollable Ur!Je·Jocko Homo (I Can't Get No) Satisfaction Come Back Jonee 
.. 
CROSBY, STilLS, NASH &YOUNG 
SO FAR~­
By DAVE IRWIN 
Sports Writer 
:'1/otre Dame's golf team seems to have emerged as a force in the Mid­west as it closed the fall season with a sn:ond-place finish in the 12-team Notre Dame Fall Invitational. Last week the Irish plaet:d fourth in the Indiana Intercollegiate Golf Cham­pionships in Indianapolis. 
The lnviational, however, wasn't 
so much a matter of Notre Dame 
losing, as it was Purdue winning. 
Notn· Dame's squad was in the clubhouse with a 362, just three shots offthe team record established in I 974, with Boilermaker seniorjay Smith still out on the 6,44S-yard Burke .\kmorial Golf Course. Burke has matured into a one of the most challenging of northern Indiana layouts with its small, undulating greens and tight fairways. 
Smith needed to birdie: the I Hth hole to win the match and that's ex­actly what he did. 
"He literally and figuratively won it fi>r the team and the medalist for himself," Irish Head Coach :'1/od O'Sullivan said. "Notre Dame didn't lose it -Purdue won it." 
Smith's birdie gave him a two­under-par 69 (36-.H) and the medalist title for the second straight year. Notre Dame's Bob Horak and Tom Scully were runners-up, each with71. 
Sophomore transfer Frank Lcyes shot 72 for Notre Dame, sophomore Dave .Moorman 73, junior Stoney Ferlmann 7'; and junior Gary Peters 
76. This is Peters 11rst year after transferring from Central .Michigan. 
IfSmith had failed on his birdie at-tc.:mpt on IHand the match ended in a tit: the Irish would have won on the basis of Peters' 76. Purdue's worst score was 77. 
"We went out in styh:," said O'Sullivan, who enters his eighth campaign as head coach. "Those numbers arc the best in nine years by any :-.Jotrc Dame golfteam. · 
And losing to Purdue in golf is no shame. The Boilermakers have a full contingent of scholarships (Notre Dame has one) and emerged as Big Ten champions last year, despite the presence of perennial national power Ohio State. 
"We didn't win, hut we found out we arc very capahk," O'Sullivan said. ''I'm not disappointed, and neit­her is the team." 




Purdue-Calumet downs Saint Mary's spikers 
By MARY SIEGER 
Sports Wn"ter 
Saint .Mary's volleyball team lost its match to a tough Purdue-Calumet team 12-1 S, 17-19. 15-I) and 10-1 '; last night at the Angela Athlcti<: Facility. The Belles, who defeated both Notre Dame and Fort Wavne over the weekend, did not look as impressive last evening. 
The loss was the 11rst of the young season for Saint :\1ary's. 
ThroughoJJt la!>t night's game, the Belles looked sluggish and never held a strong lead during any of the games. All four games were slow moving as the Belle~ fought a losing hattie. 
Part of the reason for the Belles poor performance mav have 1:-een a lack of confidt·nce. Al~o. two of rhe team's starters, Ann Boutton and Rosemary Whalen, did not play be­cau~t: of injuries. ··1 expel"! ther.J 

During the 16-team Indiana lnter­colkgiates, the Irish ran into a little bit ofbad luck and some tough com­petition, including Purdue and Ball State. The Irish had won the tourney once ( I 97H ), placed second once and third four times in six years of state competition. 
This year, however, :'llotre Dame could fair no heuer than fourth, 36 shots behind Ball State's winning to­tal of 75';. The Irish, hpwever. sut: fcred a rash of penalty strokes and played without regular David 
See GOLF, page 8 

hack for next Tuesday's games against Goshen and Saint Francis," commented Head Coach Erin :vturphy. 
.Murphy also stated she was quite disappointed with last night's match and this attitude was reflected throughout the team as the players left Angela. 
Since the team lacked confidence during the match, "they lacked the .1ggressivencss needed to win a game," said .Murphy. "Every game is a fight, and you have to want to fight in order to win. We played, but we didn't play to win,"' she added. 
The Belles hope to regain their fighting spirit before next Tuesday's matches. Despite their loss this week, the Belles arc optimisti<: about next week when they travel to (;oshen and Saint Francis Colleges. "This match taught us that we need the desire to win in addition to our skills," \-1urphy concluded. 
Co-captain Terri Walters (29) and Saint Mary's teammates bad a rough time last night as the Belles dropped theirfirst match ofthe season. See Mar:v Sieger'sstory at left. (photo by Cheryl Ertelt} 
• • • More Board 
continuedfrom page 9 
AMERICAN LEAGUE West Division Oakland at Kansas City (Oakland lead. 1-0) East Division New York (GUidry 11·5) at Mtlwaukee (Haas 11· 7). 
n 
TRANSACTIONS~ 
BASEBALL American League BALTIMORE ORIOLES stgned Dennts Marttnez. pitcher. to a ftve year contract 
National League 

CINqiNNATI REDS announced that Dave Con­cepcion. shortstop. had agreed to a f1ve-year con­tract. · 
FOOTBALL National Football League CHICAGO BEARS watved Hans Ntelsen. ktcker Stgned ~ohn Roveto. ktcker . NEWiYORK GIANTS watved Billy Taylor. runntng back. SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS traded Matt Bahr. ktck­er. to the Cleveland Browns for an undisclosed draft 
ChOICe 
HOCKEY 
National Hockey League 

ST LOUIS BLUES asstgned Alatn Lemteux. cen­ter. to Salt Lake Ctty of lhe Central Hockey League Returned A1k W1lson. defenseman. to hiSJumor 1eam. 

EKS-74007
19119 

The -Observer.c_~-~-=-===-c=~-=====:-::::.-========= 



~~c:1lC3l~~==========================W==e~d=n=es=d=a=y,=O=c=·t=o=b=er=7=,=1=9=8=1===p=a=ge~ll
Molarity 


Doonesbury 
Michael Molinelli 

Garry Trudeau 
f(JI)f?.. I THINK I JUST HITA 
NE3/?Ve. 
-I 


Campus 
•':):00 
a.m. -seminar, "the social world ofluke ­acts", prof bo reicke, mem. library lounge, sponsored by theology dept. 

•12: 
I 'i p.m. -~eminar, "the role of hemolymph proteins in thl· subzero tc:mpc:rature tokrancc of insects", dr. john g. duman, galvin auditorium, sponsored hy microgiology dept. 

• 
1:00 to 'i:OO p.m. -makt·up photo day, room c­-18, ace, (inside: gate one). 

•4:20 
p.m.~ colloquium, "dement z equals 107, spin i equals 30pos., atomic positrons, ion microscript, 'i gev uranium-a" -status report, dr. dictmar kolh: univ. of kassel, ft·d. republic of ger­many, I 18 nkuwland science hall, sponsored by physics dept. 

•..,:00 
p.m. -intro. program, "india study and tour program", carroll hall, SilK, sponsored by dept. of history. 

•7:00 
p.m. -t11m, "romeo and juliet", annenherg auditorium, snitt: art museum. 

•..,:00 
p.m. -mt:eting, knights of columbus husi­nc:ss meeting, k of c hall, all valid mc:mhcrs welcome. 

•7:30 
p.m. -pax christi study sessions :~ and 4, basement of sacrc:d heart prcsbytt·ry (basement), sponsored hy pax christi. 

•8:00 
p:m. -t:pistomology kcturc saks, ""knowledge: rc:considerc:d", keith khrer. univ. of arizona, galvin auditorium, sponsored by philo~ophy dt:pt. 

•8:00 
p.m. -play, "sugar mouth sam don't dance: no more," prc:scnted by thc:atrc production class, washington hall basement. 

•8:30 
p.m. -forum, fdlowship of christian ath­letes forum, baseball coach larry gallo, badin hall d1apd. 



Television Tonight 
7:00p.m.  16  lkal Pt·opk  
22  ~lr. .\lcrlin  
28  Amerkan League Division  Playolh,  
Yankn·s at \lilwaukee, (;anw I  
34  Stepping Olll  
46  Lest·a Tckthon with Lt·stt·r Sumrall  
7:30p.m.  22  \\'KHI' in Cincinnati  
8:00p.m.  16  Diffrell! Strokes  
22  .\lovie-Coward oftht· Coumry  
34  :---lon-lktion tdt·vision  
46  Lesea Tdethon. all night program  
8:30p.m.  16  Fa<:ts of Lili:  
9:00p.m.  16  :"<kkeb and Dymn  
34  ,\ludra-Afriquc.:  
10:00p.m.  16  :'>lc.:wsCc.:mer 16  
22  22 Eyc.:witnt·ss Nc.:ws  
28  :'1/c.:wswatch 28  
34  The: Dkk Cavc.:!l Show  
10:30 p.m  16  Tonight Show  
22  WKHP/I'eature .\1ovit­ 
28  ABC :'1/c:ws :'1/ightlinc:  
34  Captionnl ABC News  
ll:OOp.m.  28  Love Boat  
11:30 p.m.  16  Tomorrow Coast 10 Coast  


Today in History 
Today·~ highlight in history: 
In llJ65, Pn:sident John F. Kennnly signed a nuclear test han treaty between United States, Britain and Soviet llnion. 
On this date: In I 'i ~I. Au~tria'~ Don .Juan df.:"dsivdy dekated the Turkish tleet off Lepanto. In 1':)4':), the republil: of East Germany was timned. 
In llJ70, Egyptian Vice Presilknt Anwar Sadat succeeded the late Gamal Ahdel Nasser as prt·si­dt:nt. 
And in llJ-,7, a new constitution fi>r the Soviet llnion was approved unanimously by the Supreme Soviet. 
' 


rrWAS A Sl7N6/N6 Rl38UKE FROM A R&­SP&Clli/ COLLEA61Je. 
fORTUNATW; He's IN 
~7He f/NORITY. 
The Daily Crossword 

.4!J50LUTUY. 
THe CALLS HAV£3 8fEN RIJNN!NG ABCXJT 3 70 f 
IN !ilV~fY= ___ ,....,__ MYRJSmON!I 
RICI<'I 15 ON Tlf€ fLAMET!flff:)wE.f, EO !tNt> CHIP Atft 1'1Y COI-IM!INOo 
TCA-M, 808e,Y 1$ 0A1 TH£ MOdllt 1'115SU LAUJt/CtitEI?IIIlO FRED IS MY :SM/'tle 
~~1~­
ACROSS 1 Flight records 5 Irrigate 
10 Grocery or golf fol· lower 
r:-::-""T:':;---,r:-::-~~ ·14 Son of 
Isaac 15 Intense 16 Tommy of 
Mets fame 17 Stevedore's 
milieu 19 Traveled 20 Color 21 Saucers in 
the sky 
22-Trail (pioneer route) 

© 1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
24 Wire 
measures 25 Rid 26 Bring into 
harmony 29 Decisive defeat 
44 Revolution­ist of Mexico 
45 Oven for 
pottery 46 Solicitude 47 City in 18 Destroys 23 Fast dance 24 Slipper 25 Parcae 26 Missile 27 Crown 28 Fortune­

33 Money units Spain telling in Iran 50 Great Lake card 34 Russian 51 Jolson 29 Twist union and Hirt 30 Tropical 
35 1: Ger. 54 Spread vine 36 Unusual 55 Grand 31 Musical 37 Hit to the gourd composition 
outfield 58 God: Fr. 32 Maureen 38 Facts 59 Run away or John 39 Gold: Sp. 60 Prevalent 34 "Comes in 40 Puts on 61 Eddie of like-" 
weight baseball 37 Prepared 41 Sharpener 62 Impressions for sowing 42 Saturate 63 Diminutive 38 Info 
ending 40 Pattern 
41 Seraglio DOWN 43 Supplement Licentious with effort 
2 "-can 44 Money units 
you see" in Congo 3 Portal 46 Crawled 4 "Sweet-" 47 West In­5 Equivocate dian bird 6 Hairdos 48 Spicy stew 7 Uncles 49 Sediment 
in47 A 50 Collar 8 Sea eagle 51 Dismounted 9 Spoke back 52 Golf stroke 
10 Profession 53 Dagger, 11 Twittering old style 12 Make over 56 Malt drink 13 Young age 57 Before 
... 
• 

~Lm~CIDrn ill&\ffi~ 
announces another 
®...EIID~l:lrn~TI' xmcaillfr rnrmmrn 
~lPimCDil&\)L 
Tonight: MOLSON ON TAP!! 9:30-2:00 
Thursday Night:  Gin and Tonic Special  
Friday Afternoon :  Another Pre-Pep Rally Afternoon  
Celebration  4: 30-7 : 30  
•  

BUT WHAT DOES THE STUDENT UNION RECORD STORE HAVE FOR ME? 
CHEAPER PRICES PRICES·--Save 24-32% off list prices! MOST CURRENT SINGLES-S6.50 (compare at $8.99 list). Cut-outs...$2.98 to S5.98 
CONVENIENCE...The NDSU Record Store is located on the Main floor of LaFortune and is open 9-5. PLUS-ordered albums take l week only! 
GREAT SELECTION ...Springsteen, Fogelberg, Moody Blues, Stevie Nicks, Cristopher Cross, Pat Benatar, Journey, and many more. 
ALSO...recorded and blank tapes available. 
SO...for CHEAPER PRICES, MORE CONVENIENCE, and a GREAT SELECTION stop by the S.U. Record Store today!! 
r 
,~ 
I I J Wednesday, October 7, 1981 -page 12 
I 
Praises Hunter 
' 
' Team's progress pleases Faust 
' 
I' By KELLY SULLIVAN out, but the players do understand and keep Notre Dame's bowl hopes 
' 
Sports Writer what we're trying to do. We coaches alive, than in previous weeks. "This I can see things starting to click now." is just like any other game," he ex­Gerry Faust seldom underes­And one person in particular plained. "Whether you're 0-4 or 4-0 ' 
timates his opposition, so Florida who's starting to click in his new there's going to be pressure to per­State's win over previously un­position is wingback Tony Hunter. form well. to go out and improveI' beaten Ohio State just proved what Faust says the 6-5 junior is making from the last time you were on the ~ he had known all along. valuable contributions at that spot tleld." I "I think their victory ( 36-27 at that go by undetected. But the bowl picture is a long way 
I 
Columbus) awakened a lot of the "Tony's helping out in so many off in his mind. ''I'm not thinking public, but it didn't surprise us," ways it's unbelievable," praised his ' 
revealed the :'llotre Dame coach. coach. "His blocking has bet:n a real "They've got a lot of great skilled asset. Having Tony in the slot as our athletes. They're very quick and lead blocker has really paid offfor us. physical, and our players are rt:ally And as far as being a recdver, by put­concerned -they feel this is going ting him at wingback we can move to be a tough football game." him to the inside or the outside on a 
Faust told reporters at yesterday's pass play." weekly press conference that he's Hunter's rushing average ( 2.7)
becoming more pleased-every week 
caused many to speculate that the

\Vith the progress his squad is 
ex-Moeller all-American might be

showing. "They're starting to catch 
moved back to split end. "To be 

on to the concepts of our offense,'' 
honest, I considered doing that,"

he explained. "They're tlnding out 
Faust admitted. "I felt we might get

all the things we'll be able to do. It's 
more receptions out of him that

really going to take a few sea~ons 
way. Tony's stride is not a running

before the team knows it inside and 
back stride, and we know that, but he's a strong runner and he's hard to bring down. He's learning how to get those four or five yards we need in key plays. And he loves the spot. Van Pearq•
FSU continues 'Oktoberfest' 
He enjoys blocking as much as catching. Tony played a super game for us Saturday, and I'm very pleased 

beyond our next game," emphasized with his improvement... Faust. "We're just trying to improve.
HE<; INNER'S LUCK-The Irish face the Florida State He's obviously pleased with quar­
win them one at a time, and go fromSeminoks for the t1rM time ever on Saturday. The terback Tim Koegel's performance there."
Seminole,.,, who have lost only two regular season to date. The senior has a 56 percent
!-\ames over the last three years, t1nishcd t1fth in both completion rate and has passed for 
IRISH ITE.\1S -The Irish will still 

wire service polb after the I9HO season. The Seminoks are tht· midst of a 
473 yards. "We're going with Tim­he without cornerback John Krimm
in ma,.,ochistic my Koegel right now. Blair Kid's not and guard Randy Ellis when they
schedule in which they have played :\khraska ( ~-t-1-t out of the picture at this point, but 
face the Seminoles Satur­lw;,.,) and Ohio State ( ~6-27 upset win) and bee :'llotre 
... day .. Junior wingback Tom \1er­
Tim h;u; been doing an excellent job

Dame. Pittsburgh and LSU in five consecutive road con­20H of Notre Dame's .~00 rushipg yards against the Spar­throwing the ball and guiding the 
rick w;u; lost for the season when he tests. Seminole Coach Bobby Bowden has nicknamed tans, and the 61 ~ yards which the three rushers have 
underwent knee surgery this weekthe five-game road odyssey "Oktobcrfest." gained this season rt.present 47 percent of Notre 
team, and we're trying to stay with for an injury suffered in Sunday's JVYet Florida State made believers out ofa lot ofpeople, Dame's total offensive output. 
just the one quarterback." win at Illinois ...Greg Bell, Phil Car­the lrbh t(mtball team included, when it was only the However, the Irish may have their work cut out for And Notre Dame is looking at just ter and Pat Kramer remain questiont1fth team (besides \'lichigan) in I 0 seasons to escape them against a Seminole defense that allowed Ohio one opponent this week, Faust in­marks ...all are taking it easy infrom Ohio Stadium with a victory over the Buckeyes. State only ~8 yards rushing on 31 attempts. Of course, 
sisted. "We're not thinking ahead to practice this week, but linebacker
The other four teams have been UCLA, Penn State, Ok­the Buckeyes' ground game was merely a diversion for Southern Cal. All you'd have to do is joe Rudzinski and tackle Bob Cl;u;bylahoma and .\1issouri. their air attack, which gained 458 yards on 31 comple­see game films of Florida State, and probably will return to the line­
tions in 52 attempts. Florida State's defense has been
GOING BOWLING -Notre Dame and Florida State you'd know our players eyes aren't up ...split end Tim Tripp and with
stingy in recent years, pacing the nation with a 7.7-point
have both frequented the post-season bowl circuit in wandering any further down the wingback Van Pearcy dressed for the
scoring average last se;u;on. In fact, the 34 points which 
recent years. The Jrish own a 7-~ post-season ledger, schedule than Saturday." first time against Michigan State
Nebr;u;ka scored against the Seminoles was the most
having made nine bowl appearances in the last 12 years Faust said yesterday he didn't feel following their recoveries from
points scored against them in 32 games.
(since the I970 season). Notre Dame's only bowl trip any more pressure this week to win, knee injuries. before the 1971 Cotton Bowl had been a 27-10 victory AIR PATROL -One of the admitted weaknesses of over Stanford in the 1925 Rose Bowl. the Irish football team this season has been the big play. 
.\1canwhilc, the Seminoles have appeared in the last Although the Irish defense has surrendered 'i51 yards two Orange Bowl classics (dropping both games to Big passing over the last three games, five pass receptions Eight champion Oklahoma) and also the 1977 Tan­( 71 yards vs. Michigan; 51, 41 and 40 vs. Purdue; and 63 gerine Bowl. Florida State owns a 3-7-1 record in post­yards against Michigan State) have accounted for 266 season appearances, the last win being a 40-1 7 decision yards, almost halfof that total. over Texas Tech in the '77 Tangerine classic. 
OFFENSIVE RATIO -Upon assuming the Irish 
GROUND ATTJ d\. -Greg Bell's 165-yard perfor­coaching reins last winter, Gerry Faust remarked that mance against 'iichigan State was the best individual he would be opening up the offense more than it had showing of any Irish rusher this season. It also marked been in the past. Despite the relatively short period of the second week in a row that an Irish tailback topped time which the Irish have had to utilize their new of­the I00-yard barrier in a game, Phil Carter having fense, they have nevertheless opened up their passing notched I I~ yards at Purdue. The Irish tailback trio of 
See ITEMS, page 8
Carter, Bell and freshman Chris Smith accounted for 
Sign recruit 
Irish cagers get their Price 
By SKIP DESJARDIN his shots from the floor last season at impressed not only with his shoot­Assistant Sports Editor .\1arion, and connected on nearly 79 ing, but also with his ability to go to percent of his foul shots. Al{hough tht· basket." joe Price, a 6-5 swingman from most of his playing time came at Price becomes the first Indiana guard, Price still managed to average native to play on a Notre Dame team
.\1arion, Ind .. has become the second high school senior to announce his 
eight rebounds and three assists per since South Bend's Dave Kuzmicz intention to attend :'llutrc Dame next was here in 1974-77.
game. fall. Earlier this fall, Phelps announced "Consid~ring the great tradition 
Price averaged IH.6 points per that Jim Dolan, a 6-H forward from of Indiana high school b;u;ketball, game as a junior at :Vtarion High Toms River, ~.j .. also will attend it'll be great to have him be part of School, and is expected to be a :'llotre Dame next fall. our program," says Phelps. 
leading candidate for the coveted Coincidentally, Price and Dolan The Irish coach hope!> to sign a to­...\1r. Basketball" award in the state. were tal of tlve recruits t(>r the
named co-.\1VP's in the tlnai 19H2-8~ 
gamt· of the 'Pittsburgh 11-Five Star sca~on. l 'nder :'IICAA regulation~. :'llotrc Dame Coach Digger Phelps. Camp.' The camp is one of the most players may nlit sign a national letter .. He reminds us ofTracy jackson. He highly-respected showcases of high of intent until April. The institution­
is the kind of player you can rely on school basketball taknt in the al agreements that have been signed to get off a good shot late in the 
"Joe is an excellent shooter," says 
country. hut arc not binding. game." "We watched Joe play throughout Price b. without a. doubt. one of the summer," says Phelps. "\X'e \\ nc
Price hit just under 'iH percent <Jf 
Sec PRICE, page 9 









