


VOL. XVI, NO. '>0 TUESDAY. NOVEMBER 3. 19HI
Ihe-Ob-se~~o·--. ------.A.~Y=-~ 
Happy Birthday! 
Special 15th Anniversary Edition 
Former top editors discuss careers, changes 
Editor's note: For the fifteenth anniversary of the founding iJfThe Observer, Executive News Editor Kelli Flint, .~:we Executive News Editor .Wary•A.gnes Carey, ami News Editors Tim Vercellotti, Cathy Domanico and Dave Rickabaugh talked to former Observer Editors-in-Chiefabout changes in the style and operation ofthe newspaper over the years ami/he effect/hat u!orking with The <>bst-rvt·r has had on their careers. 
The Ohserr•er was foumkd on November I. 
1966 hyco-editors Robert Anson and Stephen 
Feldhaus. 
Anson, currently a free-lance writer whose 
artides have appeared in magazines such as 
Time,l:'squire, and Playboy, said his ex­
perience with The Ohsert'L'T helped him ob­
tain his tlrst job, as a correspondent for Time 
magazint·. 
On a recent trip to Notre Dame, Anson visited The Ohsen1er office, noting that the"remarkable:" changes in the paper were "byand largt· for the better". "I was impressed by the prokssionalism," he said. 
The Observer started a new journalistic direction for Notre Dame, according to Feldhaus, now an international lawyer who recently returned to the United States after a 
'5-year stay in London. 
Feldhaus noted that The Obseroer provided him with skills that had a positive effect on his career. "The ability to deal with '56 people -coordinate conflicting schedules and meet 
common goals -has to help any career. It 
certainly helped mine. 

Patrick t..ollins, who followed Anson and 
Feldhaus as editor in 1967, values the 
"independence" ofThe ObsL'Tver. 
"Only a few people appreciate how difficult 
it is to run a paper that is independent, make 
ends meet and put out a good product," he 
said. 

"When we published the paper, we won­dered if it would ever become what we wanted it to be -a daily publication. The paper has thus far fult11led our hopes, par­ticularly technologically. At this point, The Obsert'L'T is a mini-version ofpapers like the 
Sun Times. 

Collins is currently a reporter with WLS news, a Chicago-based ABC affiliate. 
The Ubsen•er was a "pretty rank ameteurist" operation in 1968, according to William I uking, currently a lawy..-in Chicago. 
Luking added that working with The Ob­server was advantageous to his cart·er "in a strange way", noting that it enabled him to develop administrative and managerial skills. 
During Tim). O'Meilia's editorship, from April, 1969 until September I969, The Ob­sen•er was "struggling to find an iden­tity...what we could do with a daily ...prove we could make it as a dai~v." 
Afeatures writer for The Post in West Palm 
See EDITORS,page 4 

Past newspaper quotes indicate period's mood 
By Paul Kosidowski 
Features Writer 
Afteran enlightening afternoon basking in the nostalgia ofObserverspast, my effort to capture the spirit ofanother lime through my own thoughts and words was destined to hopelessfutility. Thefollowing vignettes (sometimes known as quotations) were first printed in Observers/rom the 1967-1968 schoolyear. 
...one quartet that has been tearing up England for some time has been unjustly ignored by the top-pop forty freaks. Quite un­justly, for this group has released good songs and was the tirst group to experiment with electronic distortion and feedback. Ap· propriately enough, they arc called The Who. 
Notre Dame's much touted ideal ofeven­tually becoming a totally residential university is in serious trouble. The high rise dormitory complex to be erected north ofthe library ...will never make this a residential uni­versity. Simply lumping a couple ofhundred rooms together with a chapel does not create a resident hall... in the planned high rise halls...there will be only one lounge area for every 2'5 students. 
Senior Class President Mike Minton has an­nounced that he plans to speak to the Student Senate Wednesday in support ofa motion whic;h would allow for second semester, on­campus Seniors to have au~omobiles. ...Minton plans to outline to the Senate at least four reasons for change in the rule. The first is improvement ofsocial conditions for Seniors, especially for those seriously thinking ofmar­
raige and needing a car to visit fiances. 
See QUOTES,page 4 

Current editor analyzes Observer birth , future 
ByJohn M. McGrath 
Bditor-tn-Cblef1981-82 
Fifteen years ago today, The Observer 
published its first issue. The big news items in 
that first 12-page edition centered around the 
1966 homecoming festivities scheduled for 
the upcoming weekend. There was a photo on 
page four of Ray Charles ("The high exalted 
prie t st ofrock and roll") -the featured attrac· 
tion at Saturday's homecoming concert. The 
pretty face of Barbara Cunneen, the 1966 
homecommg queen, also graced those early 
pages, along with homecoming messages 
from Coach Ara Parseghian and Team Captain 
Jim Lynch and previews of the Notre Dame­
Pittsburgh homecoming game matchup. 
In light ofour fifteenth anniversary obser­
vance, however, the most significant articles 
dealt with The Observer itsel~ At the bottom 
of the front page, the headline "A Promise, A 
Purpose, A Newspaper Is Born," attracts im· 
mediate attention now, I '5 years to the day af­
ter it was printed. You see, one week before 
that historical first issue, The Observer's 
predecessor, The Voice literally died. To fill 
the void caused by The Voice's demise, a 
group ofconcerned student journalists 
huddled together to discuss the possibility of 
"starting from scratch" and opening another 
newspaper. 
The result ofthese desperate discussions _was the inauspiscious birth ofThe Obsen,er. 
~11-around Service' 

Observer examines role in community 
By Tony Walton 
Editorials Editor 
As The Obseroer reflects upon I'5 years ofservice to the Notre Dame ami Saint Mary's campuses, it is good to pause and consider the role of the newspaper in this community. A newspaper is often cast in the role of trying to be all things to all people; it must deliver news, opinion, general information and entertainment, as well as providing a forum for exchange on pertinent issues. The Observer has considered this to be its objective and continues to strive for this 
all-around service. 
But it's not ea~y. A newspaper, while accepting its many respon­sibilities, must also acknowledge its limitations. It must define its mission, then fulfill it to the best ofits abilities. The goal ofThe Ob­serl'L'T, as stated by the tlrst editors-in-chief, is to "uncover the truth and to report it accurately." This is not always a pleasant task and it will not always satisfy everyone in the community, yet it is our job. 
The Obsen,er was created as an independent voice in the com­munity, free ofany coercive influence, be it from the university ad· ministration, the faculty or the student body. This is not an arrogant position -it is one ofnecessity. Living in a media-soaked society, we arc continually reminded that "the truth" is often subjective, open to interpretation and argument, but a new~papcr must print that which it knows to be the truth at the time. As stated by Charles Scott in 1926, "Comment is tree, the facts are sacred." The Obsen1er does its best to present those facts. 
As the independent voice in the community, we are in a monopoly position ofa sort. This complicates our role, as we must be self­motivating, self-critical, and self-policing. This is an area where the reader becomes a part of the journalistic process. Is the paper ac­curate, fair? Is it addressing relevant issues? How can it be improved? Students must let The Obsen1er know; it is a student paper. 
And perhaps that is the truest ofany statement concerning a newspaper. The Observer is only as strong as the support it receives from its community. What is a newspaper without its readers? Several pieces ofpaper. It can only be as vital as the community surrounding it. It is a reflection of the needs, opinions and concerns ofthat community. The Obseroer is continually searchingfor ways to 
better fulfill its mission ofservice to the ND-SMC community. This 
search may at times appear to be a lack ofdirection, but we do not 
pretend to be perfect; we do promise to always deliver our best. 
Fifteen years is not a long time in the newspaper business. In that 
short time, however, The Observer has carved a niche in the ND-SMC 
community, and is lookingforward to many more years ofservice to 
that community. 
l'ormer Voice Editor Steve Feldhaus and Sam An~on, up to that point an associate editor at ScholastiL·, forged an alliance and agreed to 
serve jointly as the fledgling paper's tlrst 
Editors-in-Chief. The rest is history. 
But what was the motivation behind The 
Obsen1er's birth -and what keeps it in busi· 
ness today? Perhaps some lines culled from 
the the editorial page of that first edition can 
help answer these questions. 
Under the heading, "As We Begin," The Oh· server's first editors wrote: 
"Closing down The Voice was indeed a dif­ficult task, for there arc many fond memories. The Obsen1er was not created out ofany scn­timentallonging for a now-defunct publica­tion. It is not a rebirth, but a completely new thrust in journalism. 
"Editorially, The Observer will follow a liberal policy...This liberal is a man who is al­ways on special assignment, who eschews the automatic response, the doctrinaire formula. He is wary ofideologies and absolutes. His mind is set on searching, for discovering and effecting new policies rather than conserving old ones for age's sake." 
"Implementing this liberal policy on The Observer will n\ean an all-encompassing search for the truth, both in fact and opinion. In this quest, our editorial pens will not be confined to the campus scene, although this will be our main focus, but will from time to time roam over the national and international issues that must, by their nature, touch any University." 
Fifteen years later, The Observ('T still strives to maintain this "liberal" thrust in its editorial policies -liberal not in the sense ofany ideological persuasion. but rather in the mis­sion ofexamining each issue on the basis of clearand unbiased reporting. I will be the first to admit that this ideal has -and probably never will he -realized completely by The Observer. I can assure our readers, however, that The Observer continues unrelentingly af­ter fifteen years ofexistence sincerely and energetically to attempt to attain this g,Jal. In fact, the main focus ofour efforts for the remainder ofthis year is much the same as the goal ofthe first editors in 1966: to improve the quantity, depth, and objectivity ofour editorial content. 
What then is differt·nt about The Observer ofthe '80s? For one thing, we are technologi· cally far advanced when compared to our ear­ly days -and to many othercollege dailies in the nation today. Not only arc stories written and edited on computer terminals in today'-s Observer newsroom, but they arc also typeset 
See BIRTH,page 4 

The Irish Extra -15th Anniversary Tuesday, November 3, 1981 -page 2 


Top stories and style changes highlight 




THE OBSERVER 
MOON CREW AVERTS CRISIS
Legal Apts. For .. 

...... ~··­~ ~ •r-Off-Campusers Near 
THE OBSERVER 

11-3-66 One week after the The Voice shut 
. .. 2-1-71 Apollo I ~·s astronauts succeeded in down. a campus ncw~papcr created to "observe, 
docking thdr command ship with the lunar landn, rcnark, notice, comment ami adhere" appeared at 
O\'t'rcoming a problem that would havt· h>rced Notre Dame. The tir~t issut· of the ()/Jsen•er 
canu:llation of their landing on the moon. A round featured an article by Ara Pharsegan concerning 
ofcelebrations broke out at :"JASA control in llous· the birth of a newspapl'f. along with a series of 
ton when spaceship Commander Alan B. Shepardphotographs de~cribing the ()hsen,er stafl's in­New St. Mary's VP
announced that there had been a "good. hard 
envis1ons her durles

~~~:':.-~i~i~ 
gredients for an ideal oftkt· situation. Robert An­
dock." son and Stephen Feldhaus co-edited the papn. ... .... ·­
;: p~;;;;;·i:~. A-p~;~~o··· A N.IIfs;L~::=~ . . 

~fl~il~~~;;~


ti~i~t~~~~l~~ 
! THE OBSERVER 
~ 
S.B. POLICE ARREST SCHOLASTIC EDITOR 
11-30-71 The Obsen1er learned that plans for a
ON POT VIOLATION·
9-18-67 Senior Steve Heagan, art editor fiJr 
-~.-.-
Notre Dame-Saint Mary's merger, which had been Scholastic magazine, was arrested thb summer for in the planning stage for almost a year was rejected possession of '5. '> pounds of marijuana. The arrest by the trustees of both schools. The announce­came as the result of an investigation by South ment sparked various forms of student protest. St. Bend Police into what was termed "a large scale .\1ary's students boycotted classes and The Ob­operation". Fr. James Riehle, dean of students, server staff dropped Saint Mary's from the paper's suspended Heagan from the University for a year as masthead. The next day the University announced a result of the incident. that it would begin admitting women for the fall semester, 1972. 



THE OJM~RVER. s~-­

--··-Students Nominate Sen. Mark Hatfield 
~. ·: 1~· ·'IIIV ritrr GOP Peace Candidate 
~ I, . .
; ·•·,.J .. ' 
,.,:-.' ,"' \ -. . 
' ­


il~~~ 
w.r.lii 
~-~~ 
3-25-68 Republican Senator :\lark Hatfield received the Presidential nomination at the 196H Mock Republican Convention. After a deadlock consisting of I I ballots, Hatfield emerged the vic­tor over Nelson Rockerfeller of New York. The delegates selected Massachusetts Governor John 
A. Volpe as Hatt1eld's running mate. 
11-8-72 Richard M. Nixon won re-election by a large majority on this date, losing only .\1assachus­setts and the District of Columbia to hb. Democratic opponent, Senator George McGovern of South Dako.ta. It appeared certain that Nixon would claim a clear mandate for his policies of gradual disengagement from Vietnam, strong defense spcilding, opposition to forced busing, and a slow-down of federal spending for social programs. 
Nixon takes election 




the Observer's fifteen year progress 
=--=---=----_:::-·----------·-=:--::..::.;-·-~---=--=--=--=..:·~=-=-=-·=-·=-===--==-·:.::r·--=-~=--~---=-=·-...:::.··-=-=-=-:·=-=--==-=-=-=-·=·=--===-=-·=·---===--====-=-=::.:..:··-=­
,-;;•.;-THE OBSERUER 

·.·.··~·~-·__:_o-:·_ 

AAUP claims !raud recruitment 

·1-.';0-7.~ CurnmlfllT \X' oftht· American As~o ..·•a­tion of I niY<'l'll1' Profc~~or~ concluded that thl· l ·nin-r~iq \\a~ nor 'doing enough 10 nxrmr ..md hold women I.Kulry •ncmhers at the l 'nin-rsny". At the time. tlu:n· were 1'> women on :'~Jotrc Danu-'s fan!lt\' of ~-;o. Of this munher. 24 were involvnl in tl·aching or research, 14 full-time. Of 
thc~oe: worncn, om· had tenure. 

1-19-1<)'78 The '\lotrc Dame Fighting lnsh rolkd 
NO named nation's best

<l\Tr thl' l.•mghurn' of the l'niH-rsitv of Texa~. taking the Cuuon Bowl by .1 !'<'otT of .~H-l 0. and winnmg tlw n;!ltonal ._·hampionship. The win, along with the ckh:ats of t)klahon1J anc.1 .\lkhigan, resultt·d in a number one ranking t(Jr the Irish in the post-s<·ason poll~. \\"hilt-Alabama t;ms protested the polls' r..·~ults. lrbh head coach Dan Devine rmarked that "we earn<·d it on the tkld. \\'t• played the number onl· team ancJ beat them." 

3-18-75 President Ford paid a visit to the Notre Dame campus on March 17, 1975. In the course of the day Ford spoke to a convocation of 10,000 at the ACC, and met with faculty and students from the University's Academic Council. At a press con­ference later in the day, Ford defended his support of aid to Cambodia and confirmed a Ford­Rockerfeller ticket for the 1976 presidential cam­paign. 
4-28-76 The Notre Dame-St. Mary's Students for Reagan and the Student Union Academic Commis­sion announced that the Republican presidential candidate would speak at Notre Dame in early May, in anticipation of the Indiana primary. On the Democratic side, former .Georgia governorJimmy Carter's campaign gained momentum with a win in 

Pennsylvania. 

Tavern titter prompt• South Bend action 

The Irish Extra -I5th Anniversary Tuesday. Novt:mhcr :). I~H 1 -page :) 

9-9-74 President Gerald Ford granted former 

10-8-79 PopeJohn Paul !I took the United States
Prl·sident Richard Nixon unconditional pardon for 
by storm with visits across the country during his
any Watergare offenses. Ford explained that hl· had 
six-city, six-day tour. 0/Jsert•er statl members were
acted both out of compassion f(Jr Nixon anc.l fear 
in Washington and Chicago to chronkk the
that the nation would be torn apart by ugly pas­
American peoples' joyful reception ofthe Pontiffin
sions if Nixon was brought to trial. Reaction in 
his historic pilgramage.
Congress was mixed. White House Press Secretary 
J.F. ter Horst resigned in protest ofthe pardon. 

11·5-80 Republican Ronald Reagan was ekcted the 40th President ofthe llnited States as he led his party to victories not only in the White House but also in Congress and state legislatures. On that same date, the 52 American hostages in Iran marked their .365th day ofcaptivity. 
• • .The Observer now 
~urder In Uberty -page ? 


Hostagesout ...Reagan in 
\\ Jrl\1 \\dn111n· W'l'l"h '\,! .\m,·n~.ll'\.. l'n·,Wt·nll\ln.I)Ct'" m \\ ~··~h.u.k:n \\ ,..., ,,,·rni.UH ~IH'IlMIII. JU,Il'rll' 
1-21-81 The nation celebrated as the S2 Aml'rican hostages returned home and Ronald Reagan was sworn in. "They are now free of Iran" said newly-sworn-in Prl·sident Reagan, just two hours after his inaugaura­tion. The Notre Dame community awaited news of one hostage in par­ticular, Thomas Ahern, Class of 
,.___..,__..,._ ______ 

19S4. ., __....­3-24·77 A Notre Dame Assistant Professor ofAr­chitectun:, Enrico F. Plati, was arrested along with rwo men from Italy in connection with the Federal investigation of a ring suspected pf smuggling ex· otic cars into the country. Architecture Dept. Chairman William Richardson stated that "he ( Plati) was avery popular professor -good, ener­getic, dedicated -and most of the students really liked him." Plati was unavailable for comment. 
.­

The Irish Extra-15th Anniversary Tuesday, November 3, 1981 -page 4 
Sports Department comes of age over years 
By MICHAEL ORTMAN 
Sports Editor 
The Observer is a baby in the world of('Ol· 
Iegiate publications, but Notre Dame's ath­
letic program is the "Grand-Daddy of'em All." 
Oh sure, Saint Mary's has too often been for­
gotten, even when the Belles were playing the 
Irish, but then Notre Dame's athletic tradition 
made the job ofThe Observer sports editor a 
relatively easy one ovn the last 15 years. 
Over that span, some editors chose to usc Notre Dame's age-old athletic tradition as a crutch, and becoming wrapped up in the Notre Dame spirit so far as to rekr to any Notre Dame team as "we" and a victory as "ours." Others have gone to the opposite ex­treme, hunting and digging for any tidbit of journalistic information that might serve, in­tentionally or not, to tear down the Fighting Irish. 
Most ofus would like to think we've learned from the mistakes ofour predeccessors. At the same time though, t-hink about any student or­ganization you've been a part ofin high school or college, especially one without a faculty moderator. Every time a new person takes over, they feel compelled to make a kw ob­vious physical changes, just to remind people that the new regime has taken over. 
Accordingly, the first Observer featured a column entitled "The Irish Eye." Some in­sightlful sports columnist offered his thoughts on a weekly basis under that title for the next 
13 years until it was abandoned in 1979. During those 13 years, the column's standing head changed its appearance I 0 times. 
Some things, however, never change 

• • • Quotes 
continuedfrom pa!{e I 
An estimated 30 Catholic Traditionalists walked out of the II a.m. Sunday .\1ass at Sacred Heart in protest against use of the new English Canon. One woman, as the priest came forward to distribute Communion, ac­costed him, called the :-.1as~o "Judco-Masonic Devil-worship,'" and then hersdflcft. 
...no one is quite sure of the exact enroll· mcnt at Sr. ,l\1ary's College. but it really doesn't make any ditfcrcnce. For all the girls arc pretty much the same and unfortunately, what they arc is not the type ofgirl you would want to take home to mother. 
Dustin Hoffman, star ofThe Graduate and ( Euge::nc) McCarthy campaigner, was mobbed by crowds ofenthusiastic students in visits to Notre Dame and St. Mary's Wednesday. 
For a long while now there has been a great deal ofargument and debate between the stu· dent body and the administration over the question of parietal hours...What 1ft:cl neces­sary to point out is the:: overwhelmingand out­rageous incongruency between ( Hcsburgh's) adamant stand on parietal hours, on the basis 

' ' .Birth 
continuedfrom page 1 
by computer. Business, circulation, and advertising functions arc computerized as well, and just a few weeks ago, The Observer acquired an in-house:: capability for reproduc­ing all photos and graphics to exact printing specifications. This year, we also forged a unique agreement with The Associated Press to receive daily allotments of national and worldwide laserphotos. 
Essentially, therefore, we:: are roughly as up­to-date as most city newspapers as we cdcbrate ourfifteenth anniversary. And when compared with othercollege dailies in the na· tion, I feel we stack up well with the best. In some respects, we stand out from the crowd. That is, truly independent collcg<: dailies like The Observer are indeed few and far between on American campuses these days. Add to that the fact that the combined enrollment of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is only around 
I0,000 and the reality that Notre Dame spon­sors no school ofjournalism, and you must ad­mit that we are justifiably proud -and hopeful-on the occasion ofourfifteenth an­niversary. 

around Notre Dame. Atop the back page of Volume l, Number 1 was The Observer's first exclusive -a letter from the charismatic young football coach, Ara Parseghian. Al­though he doesn't remember that particular one 15 years later ("There were so many ar­ticles over my II years," he said yesterday), Parseghian was expounding on the great Notre Dame-Pittsburgh rivalry and how im· portant that weekend's game would be. Doesn't that sound a lot like Gerry Faust's na­tionally syndicated "CoachesJournal?" 
What a year that was on the Notre Dame campus. It marked the return to the pinaclc of success for the Notre Dame football team as the Irish won the National Championship for the first time in I 7 years. 
It was the year ofthe legcndary·"Gamc of the Century" between the nation's top two teams, Notre Dame and Michigan State. Ex­ecutive Editor W. Hudson Giles, author of "The Irish Eye," wrote in the November 17 National Championship Edition, "History is marked by titanic struggles: Rome vs. Car­thage, DonJuan vs. the Turks, North vs. South, East vs. West, Kennedy vs. Johnson. And this Saturday at East Lansing comes the biggest confrontation since the Berlin Wall: Notre Dame vs. Michigan State." 
Giles was one ofthe paper's Founding Fathers. Robert Schmul, a proffessor of American Studks at Notre Dame today, was a freshman sports writer in 1966, the only year 
hc worked at Jbe Observer. He worked with Giles, then a senior, in the Sports Information Department. But Schmul's recollections of The Observerr are few. "I remember how fled-
ofChristian committmcnt, and yet your per­missiveness which lets an ROTC unit exist on this campus with ISOO students enrolled in it' 
DELPHIC ORACLE ...Open Nov. 22...fcaturing Old Quo Vadis...Undcrground Films...Captain Electric and the Flying Lapcls...Psychcdclic Light Show. 
"A moratorium for the rest ofthe vcar on all student protests" will be asked for bv Student Body President Richard Rossie in a I~ttcr to students today...Although the letter says "all student protests," Rossie said it docs not in­clude war demonstration. "The Presidential Review protest is not included, but civil dis· obedience protests arc." 
QUEEN Pam Clancy -from Wayne, New .Jersey was elected Queen for Notre Dame Homecoming Ball this weekend. Pam, a ;. foot-3 blonde hair green eyed freshman at Aul­wcll College New Jersey will be cscourted by junior Craig Fenech, a junior Economics major. Craig and Pam met three years ago at a local swim club in Wayne, NewJcrscy."We're going together now," said Pam, "But we're al­most positive we're going to get married in two or three years." 
Twenty to twenty-five Notre Dame stu· dents were arrested while participating in a sit-in in the office ofSouth Bend Superinten­dent ofSchools, Charles Holt...The students were protesting...the fact that armed policemen arc patroling the halls and school yards ofsome South Bend Schools. 
Midnight. That's NoDoz' finest hour. But you should know that NoDoz can do more than help you stay awake when you're cram­ming. For example, ifyou're tired or drowsy take a couple before the exam to help bring your mind back to its usual keen cdgc... NoDoz. The scholar's friend. 
The White Rabbit...This Saturday "The Shaggs" (featuringChuck Perrin)... "Ben Franlin's Almanak"...Not responsible for blown MINDS... Wonderful Waync-0-WJVA­DJ...PSYCHEDELIC LIGHTS AND SOUNDS. 
Over fifty students attended a meeting of the Notre Dame Students for Nixon last wcck...By informing people about Nixon's stands the group hopes to erase "many er­roneous images" that arc common. 
gling it was," he recalls. "We tried to take The Obsen1er seriously while most people here didn't." 
Certain philosophies have remained con­stant through these I 5 years. The Observer has been able to bring the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community coverage ofthings that no other paper would or could-things like in· tcrhall sports, Bookstore Basketball and the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's rivalry of the '70s. 
Coverage ofBookstore wasn't always so ex­tensive. It took time for The Observer to give the tournament the campus-wide recognition it deserved. In last spring's Bookstore X supplement, the tournament's Founding Father Vince Meconi related, "The most frustrating thing about.thc early tournaments was the lack ofObserver coverage. We'd have I,000 players participating in a nine-day tournament and 2,000 fans watching the Final Four, and we'd get two paragraphs. 
• • .Editors 

continuedfrbm page 1 
Beach, Fla., O'Meilia also worked for the 
Miami (Fla.) Herald but has spent the last 
nine years at The Post, 
Now an attorney with Schcri11g-Plough Corp., of Memphis, Tenn., David C. Bach watched The Observer change from three days of publication each week to tlve during his editorship, from Sept. 1970 to jan. 1971. 
Bach worked as a writer, night editor and 
design assistant while with The Observer and 
explained the experience improved his 
writing and composition skills, helping him in 
his present car, cr. 
Gaetano De Sapio, Observer editor from 
Septe::mbcr 1969 until Spring. 1970, also 
served as "publisher" ofthe paper (taking 
over money concerns -"beg, borrow or steal 
vehicle, money and advertising") during his 
senior year, the year after his editorship. 
De Sapio's goal was to turn The Obsen1er in­to "a daily and keep it going." His year was one of"continuous crisis" in which the paper al­most folded due to financial problems and a small staff (only eight people wcrc respon­sible for daily publication, as compared to ibc current 15 staffers each evening). 
An attorney with his own law practice in 
Baptistown. N.J., De Sapio stated that his years 
at The Observer taught him how to "write in· 
telligcntly and work long hours with only the 
self-satisifaction ofyour work (as a reward)." 
The only two year Editor-in-Chiefin the his­
tory ofThe Observer, Glen Corso served in 
that position from October 1970 to March 
1972. He took over after the newspaper shut 
down for a three day period. 
Corso said that, "what had to be established 
after the shutdown was an Observer with 
stability, a firm direction and an editorial 
policy." 
Corso graduated from Catholic University 
Law School after leaving Notre Dame and is 
currently the Deputy Legislative Council for 
Mortgage Bankers Association in Takoma 
Park, Md. 
John Abowd served as the Editor-in-Chiefof 
The Observer from .\1arch 1972 to March 
197 3. 
""This is when The Observer became sellable 
to the advertising community and added full 
time non-student positions to the payroll." 
commented Abowd. "We also added respon­
sibility to the editorial content ofthe; paper. 
Poorly thought-out editorials no longer ap­
peared without signatures." 
The first photo typesetting and layout 
machines were acquired during this period. 
After graduating from Notre Dame. Abowd received a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago. He then joined the faculty of Prin­ceton University for three years and currently serves on the fac~Ity ofthe Graduate School of Business ofthe University of Chicago. 
Jerry Lutkus was Editor-in-Chieffrom .\1arch 1973 to \-larch 1974. 
Lutku~ commented, "We (The Obsen,er) concentrated on two areas for improvement during that yt·a.-: building credibility into the news department through improvement in the quality ofwriting and reporting and build· ing a solid financial base from which to operate." 
Lutkus joined the staffofThe South Bend Tribune for an eight-year period in which he received numerous national awards for his Meanwhile The Observer was writing a half page article on some golfer. Give me a break!" 
At the same time, the paper's bread and but· tcr always has been Notre Dame football. Off and on over its history, The Observer has published special home-football Saturday cdi· tions, which evolved into Friday football supplements and now a combination of the two -Saturday editions wrapped by Friday's supplement. The Obsen,er's sports pages no doubt will undergo more change in the furture, whether Notre Dame and Saint Mary's athletics do or not. Different sports editors will have different philosophies and different interests. And perhaps that's what makes this· paper such a beneficial experience for those who take advantage of the opportunity to work here -the paper's indenpcndence to make the changes or retain the things consis· tent with the eb and flow ofthe Fighting Irish and the Belles ofSaint Mary's. 
reporting on education. He enrolled in Notre Dame Law School in 1979 and plans to graduate this spring. He currently serves as the Executive Editor ofThe Lawyer. 
Tom Drape filled the position ofeditor-in­chieffromMarch, 1974to.March, 1975. Drape, currently editor ofUniversalPress in New York City, described his term as ediwr­in-chiefas "the best year of my professional life." 
Urape recalled the "newspaper spirit" of 

the staffthat was present during his tenure. "I 
felt that we had a nucleus ofaspiring jour­
nalists. Even though the formal training was 
minimal, there was a great deal ofdedication 
and willingness to learn," he explaind. 
After graudation, Drape wrote for The Kansas Ci~y Star, and Newsweek, before assuming his current position at Univeral Press, a newspaper features se::rvicc. 
Terry Keeney succeeded Drape in March, 

1975, and served as editor-in-chief until the 
following March. Keeney went on to Harvard 
Law School after graduating from Notre 
Dame, and is currently working in a private 
law firm in Washington, D.C.. 
Descrbing his time at The Obsen•er as "exciting," and "good experience," Keeeney explained that the paper "felt a responsibility to fill in the gap ofnational news for the stu. dent body." National and international news from the UnitedPress International was mi_rcd in wtih the campus coverage. 
Tom O'Neill followed Keeney into the t>ditor-in-chiefs position. 
O'Neill is now serving as managing editor for Best Publishing Co., Inc., an organization that is developing a magazine, several books, and a cable television program, all centered around "exploring the world ofquality." 
The first (and only, so far) Saint Mary's Col· lege student to serve as Observer editor in chiefwas Marti Hogan Brink, now an advertis­ing ll}anager for Burndy, Corp., in Norwalk, Conn. 
Mrs. Brink served as editorfrom April, 1977 until April, 1978, and was a reporter, layout as­sistant and night editor before becoming editor in chief. Her main goals as editor were "to make the paper a little more professional to make sure students got their S6 worth" and to unify the ND-SMC campuses. 
Tony Pace, The Observer's editor from 

.\1arch, 1978 until March 1979, noted design 
changes as the major improvement during his 
editorship. 
An Assistant Accounting Executive for 

Young and Rubican, the former editor noted 
the importance ofestablishing "projects in 
terms ofwhat you want to achieve." 
Rosemary Mills, The Observer's second woman editor, worked to "expand coverage ofnational events" that occurred nearby (the controversial Ford Pinto trial was covered by an Observer reporter), place "more focus on the South Bend Communitv" and increase Saint Mary's coverage in Observer copy. 
i. 
:\low an Assistant Manager of Editorial 

Services for The American Institute for Ccr· 
tificd Public Accountants, Ms..\1ills said her 
Obsemer experience was helpful because she 
""did lots ofediting" and had "to write concise· 
ly." 
Last year's Observer editor Paul .\1ullancy, now a sportswriter for The Times in Ham· mond, Ind.. geared his term "to computerize and modernize The Ohsen,er... put (it) on par with other small dailies around the countrv." 




, , , Interhall-Pn:g_e 10 


A crewmember stands on the foredeck of a grounded Soviet submarine off the Baltic coast near the Kariskrona naval base. Swedish authori­ties said "there must be some other reason" than 
JERUSALEM (AP)-Prime Minis­
tt·r Mena~·hem Begin asked his 
politk'al opposition yesterday to 
join him in tlghting Saudi Arabia's 
Mideast peace plan, which he called 
a prescription for Israel's liquida­
tion. 
Speaking in Parliament, Begin rejected "from start to tlnish" the eight-point plan proposed by Saudi Crown Prince l'ahd, and ad· monished the United States and Europe not to consider it as a basis for negotiation. 
Begin blasted Saudi Arabia as "the petrodollar state, where the dark­ness of the Middie Ages reigns, with the cutting off of hands and heads, with <.'orruption that cries out to high heaven." 
He proposed that a bipartisan ddcgation from the Knesset (Parliament) go to the United States and Western Europe "to explain the justice ofour <.·aust·." · 
Knesst'l veterans told The As· socialed Press tht·y could not recall 
the last time a prime minister in­
itiated such a delegation to combat a 
specific policy. Begin had con­
sidered sending a similar delegation 
to lobby against the sale of AWACS 
radar planes to Saudi Arabia, but 
scrapped the idea 
Opposition leader Shimon Peres said his Labor Party would join the delegation provided its propaganda line was agreed on in advance. 
"Of the Saudi liquidation formula termed a peace plan, we have heard disturbing words not only in Europe but also in America," Begin said. 
"Those eight points cannot serve as any basis for any discussion what­soever. They arc rejected from start to finish. There is no party in the world with whom we will be ready to conduct discussions on a plan designed for Israel's liquidation." 
The parliamentary delegation was 
the latest step in an Israeli lobbying 
campaign begun last week after 
President Reagan and Secretary of 
State Alexander M. Haig Jr. both 

Student Senate discusses tenure, ND social life 
By HANK WAGNER 
Neu•sStaff 
At last night's meeting of the Student Senate, social life and a new Tl·nure Ad Hoc Committee were tht· major topics ofdiscussion 
The meeting opened with a brief discussion of soda! life on campus. Idea!'> mentioned wcrc mid-wcck movies and a winter carnival. Em­phasis b being placcd on al­ternatives to akohol. Studl·nt Body President Don :vlurday stated that more interaction is nccd<.·d between tht· Senate, hall president:-. and social nlmmissioners. 
Also under consideration is the formation of a Tenure Ad Hoc Com­mince, consisting of a member of :vlurday's cabinet and four volun· teers from the: Senate itself. The committee's purpose is still unclear, but one ofits goals will be to provide student input to the tenure process. 
The Senate stressed that it docs not nmdonc the "passing up" ofstu­dents during home football games. The possibility of injury (demonstrated three yt·ars ago when a student sustained a severe hack injury) and the obvious danger involved make this practice: "more than a game," said \1urday. 

Soviets permit Skipper's questioning 
STOCKIIOL:\1. Sweden ( AP) ­The Soviet l'nion allow~·d the com­mander of a submarine strandnl d~'l'p inside Swedish waters to he questioned yest~-rday and Swedish tugboats rdloatcd the sub to prevem had weather from battering the vessd apart. 
Sweden at tlrst insisted that a sati~­
factory explanation t(Jr the sub's 
presenc~· in restricted Swedish 
waters would he required hdi1re it 
could he taken off the rocks do~e to 
the Karlskrona naval base where it 
ran agrounu last Tuesday. The 
Swedes said the suh was equipped as 
a spy ship. 
Soviet Ambassador :\tikhail Yakov­lev t·arlier in the day intimned t ht· Foreign .\1inistry that his govern· ment had approved interrogation of the skipper, paving the way for a solution to the: nearly week-long im­passe. 
But while tht• sub's skipper was being questioned aboard a Swedish naval vessel, its assistant comman· der sent distrc:ss signals to naval headquarters at Karlskrona. 
"The submarine sent Mayday s•g 
Delegation explains 
Begin requests aid against Saudi peace plan 
Begin said clauses in the Fahd plan
commented favorably on the Fahd calling on Israel to evacuate tcr·
plan. Officials said the: Israeli Embassy 
ritory captured in 1967 and advocat­in Washington has printed up 
ing a Palestinian state with thousands of copies of a position 
Jerusalem as its capital were aimed paper on the plan. Begin's aides at strangling Israel. leaked the contents of a letter the 
He rcjc:ctcd Amcri<.·an assertions prime minister wrote to Reagan on 
that a clause affirming "the right of Friday, and the prime minister ap· 
states in the region to live in peace" pcared on a U.S. television interview 
implies recognition of Israel be· program Sunday to explain the Is­
See BEGIN, page 8

raeli position. 
nals ovl·r thl· radio and lirt·d l'tner­gency red tlares and asked for assistan<.'l'," naval Commander <iun­nar Rasmusson said to explain th~· change in plans. "The rough w<.·athcr threatened to hrt·ak up the sub­marine." 
Winds as high as HO mph wer~· recor~kd in the area. 
Two tugboats compktnl the salvage operation in kss than an hour. and the submarine was anchored about I 0 miks from the naval hase. Naval staff oftkl·r Borje 
Johansson  said  the  suhmarim·'s  
seaworthiness  had  Yl't  to  he  
dctermin<.·d.  

Swedish authoritit·s, saying the sub was specially moditkd for intd· ligcnce nuss1ons and ~killed maneuvering was r~·quired t(Jr it to get into the oft· limits zom·. had statt·d that an apology alon~· would not be sufficient. 
The skipper, Lt. Cmdr. Pyotr (;us­hin, had said he could not kave the submarine or hand over log docu­ments until he received pcrmission from his superiors at Kalingrad naval base. 
The interrogation took place aboard a Swedish naval ship, with a second session s~·heduled aboard the submarine. Two Soviet diplomats were allowed to attl·nd. 
At a news conference, Swcdt·•l's commander-in-chief l.ennart l.jung said the Sovkts had agreed to 'Ill in­spn·tion of the sub's navigational equipment, nautical charts and duty lists. 
Foreign Minister Ola llllsten told reporters that the submarine's ot~ tlccrs were "guaranteed personal immunity and will, ofcourse, not he detained against their will after tht· questioning." 
See SUB, page 7 


Jorge is the change.' in Mexico 
By SUSAN STOLER 
AssociatedPress Writer 
MATAMOROS, Mexico -Aradio station owner with 
a grandfatherly face, a handle-bar moustache and an 
eao;y smile is turning this border city upside down with 
his maverick brand of populist politics. 
Since taking oftkt:Jan. I, MayorJorge Cardenas Gon­zalez has closed cantinas on Sundays, donated his SI2,000 salary to illuminate crime-plagucd neighbor­hoods and told barkeeps in the infamous "Boys' Town" rcd-lighi district to move out or shut down. 
His campaign slogan was "Jorge es el camhio" ­"Jorge is the change" -and he says he's trying_ to change every· · thing wrong with 
this city across TUESDAY-~-%i1111l 
the Rio Grande 
from 
~;:ttit~~ltlf F0 CUS 
Brownsville, 
Texas. 
"When we started the campaign, we found out that Matamoros was a sick city, politically, morally and financially. It was terribly bad," he said. 
Cardenas, SS, challcngc:d the candidate backed by Mcxico's establishment party, Partido Rcvolucionario lnstitucional -the party ofPrcsidcntJosc Lopez Portil· lo and most elected officials in this country. 
Cardcnao; bolted PRJ several years ago to join the op· position PAR:vl, Partido Autcntico de Ia Rcvolucion :vlcxicana. Despite his middle-class background and ownership ofgrocery stores, import-export companies, orange groves, a hotel, a rope factory and two radio sta· tions, he has become a folk hero to many impoverished supporters· "Jorgista<;" who helped elect him by a 2 to I margin. 
His popularity contrasts starkly with feelings about his predecessor, who three years ago was dragged from his office by a mob enraged over the death ofa teen-ager while in police custody. 
The mob burned the municipal palace, which ho .uses the mayor's office. Cardenas remodeled the officc. lie tore out a wall, replaced it with glass "to let everyone sec who is here" and rcmovcd all door locks. 
He promised an open govcrnmcnt and has set aside daily "office hours" to meet thc public. On a daily talk show on one ofhis radio stations, he takes questions and complaints from listeners. 
"We want them to know how money is invested, what is going to be done with money, what errors arc committed in city administration and how we messed up," he said. 
Cardena~ ran three: times for mayor before winning his three-year term. He cannot succeed himself, so he has little to lose politically in his reform projects. Top priorities for the city of 210,000 arc street and drainage improvcmertts, he said. Some areas now turn into lakes after a heavy rain. 
"We arc going to close the rcd-light district or move 
it out of town," he said. "The club owners came to sec 
me and I firmly told them that this year we have to make 
a move or we closc it. It is causing a very serious 
problem where it is now." 
See GONZALEZ, page 7 

News Briefs 
ll\ /b!' ( JIJS!'I"I'!'r and /b!' ·Issueillled l'r!'SS 
Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Fahd said yesterday the Camp David peace process has reached a "dead end" and urged the United States to support an independent Palestinian state governed by the Palestine Liberation Organization. "There is no peace without the Palestinian people and there is no Palestinian state without the PLO," he said in a statement clarifying the eight-point Mideast peace plan he announced Aug. 7. Fahd's latest remarks, carried by the offi­cial Saudi Press Agem:y and the state-run radio, also left the door open for Soviet panicipation in the peace process he proposes. Fahd called his plan a "balanced, reasonable alternative" to the Camp David formula which produced the peace treaty between Egypt and Israel but has so far failed to achieve agreement on self-rule for Pales­tinians living in Israeli-occupied territory. President Reagan, in an interview in the current Time magazine, reaffirmed his administra­
tion's commitment to the Camp David accords but suggested the framework include other Arab states besides Egypt. -AP 
Four persons have been named to the Saint Mary's Col­lege Board of Regents. The new regents are Sr. Kathryn Callahan, Sr. 
M. Rose Anne Schultz, Mrs. Arthur]. Decio and Miss Kathleen Marie Conley. Callahan is Regional Superior ofthe Sisters ofthe Holy Cross in the Midwestern region. She serves on the Board of Trustees of SaintJoseph's Medical Center in South Bend and was Manager ofStaff Development at the Medical Center from 1977 to 1981. Schultz has served as a corporate officer in the general administration of Saint Mary's since 1973. She was an Associate Directoc of the Diocesan Religious Education office from 1971 to 1973. Prior to that she served as as a regional administrator in elementary education. Decio, a resident of Elkhart, has been active in community service for the past 12 years. She serves as a volunteer at Aux Chandell and Elkhart 
Community Day Care Board and the Stanley Clark Scnool Parent­Teacher Board. Conley, a senior at Saint Mary's, is the student repre­sentative to the Board of Regents. She is majoring in elementary education and serves as the president ofTau Epsilon Pi, an education dub. Conley is also a eucharistic minister and lector and has chaired numerous com'mittees at Saint Mary's. -The Observer 
Today's voterschoose governors in NewJersey and Vir­ginia and elect mayors in several major cities, including New York, Miami and Detroit. At the same time, voters face decisions on such local issues as whether parents of private school students should receive tuition tax credits, and whether voters should have a direct say in the cost of nuclear power plants. The governors' races are viewed not only as contests for the candidates but as tests of Presi­dent Reagan's standing as well. Richard Richards, chairman of the Republican National Committee, issued a statement yesterday predicting GOP wins in bot races. "In NewJersey our prospects look excellent," he said. "In Virginia, it's a very tight race but we expect to win." Virginia's gubernatorial race -the most expensive in the state's history -pits Democratic Lt. Gov. Charles Robb. son-in-law of President Lyndon B. johnson, against Republican Attorney 
General Marshall Coleman. -AP 
PresidentReagantold told Jordan's King Hussein yes­ter,day it is "imperative that we work together" for a Middle East peace, but American officials offered no hope the monarch would break ranks with Arab allies and support the Camp David accords. The administration stressed that the United States is committed to the Camp David agreement as the formula for peace in the region, and has not endorsed instead a Saudi Arabian proposal. In private meetings, Hussein complained to Reagan about Isreal's "intransigence" and stressed that the Palestinian people must be in­cluded in peace negotiations, a senior administration official said. ­
AP 
IndianaAttorney GeneralLinley Pearson filed a 
motion yesterday seeking to increase the number of inmates at the Indiana State Prison allowed under a federal judge's recent order. The inmate population at Michigan City currently is about 1.930. Federal Judge Allen Sharp ordered two weeks ago that the inmate population at Michigan City be reduced to I ,61 S by I983. Pearson's motion to amend the ruling would mean that about 2SO of the inmates ordered moved would stay. "We are askingJudge Sharp for a clarification offigures he used to determine the limits established for 1982 and 1983," Pearson said. "The state feels the figures used by 
Judge Sharp may .not have taken into consideration the trustee dor­mitory outside the walls and the honor cellhouse inside the Michi­gan City prison." 
Light rain and drizzle diminishing today. High in mid 60s. Light rain likely tonight and tomorrow. Low tonight in the low to mid SOs. High tomorrow in low to mid 60s. Chance ofrain dropping to 20 percent today then increasing to 60 percent tonight. -AP 

Tuesday, November 3, 1981 -page 6 
AP 
Photo File 
4,000 SAVED: 
A battalion of firemen approach the 
wreckage of ten derailed train cars that 
piled up in the Buffalo, N.Y. suburb of 
Hamburg. 4,000 area residents were 
evacuated as clouds of leaking methyl 
chloride gas filled the air. ( AP Laserpboto) READY TO RUMBLE: 




Pennsylvania State troopers armed with tear gas and shotguns get ready to enter the Graterford State prison where several prison inmates are holding six prison employees and prbaps a few other inmates hostage. Saturday 29 hostages were freed after being held since Wednesday night following an escape attempt that failed. (AP Laser­photo). 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Mon­

day through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. 
except during exam and vacation periods. The Ob­
SCALER STOPPED: 

Daniel De Goodwin signs in at a Chicago police station 
server is published by the students of Notre Dame
where be was charged with disorderly conduct and 
and Saint Mary's College. Subscripttons may be 
released on a 135 cash bond after be abandoned his efforts 
purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by 
writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, In­diana 46556. 
to scale the 1, I 07-footjohn Hancock Center building. Last 
May, Goodwin scaled the world's tallest building, the 
The Observer is a member of The Associated

Chicago Sears Tower, but bad to be rescued two floors up 
Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
the Hancock building when his equipmentJailed to grip 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame, Indiana 

46556. '
the building's surface. ( APLaserpboto). 
f-The_Qbs_eryer_ 
Design Editor................... Deirdre Murphy Design Assistants .......... Suzanne La Croix Layout Staff........ ......... Amy Brecount 
Bill O'Neil Typesetter...,......... .... St<·phen Brown News Editor ................... Mary Agnes Carey Cop}' Editors ............ ........... Kathy ~lurray 
Paula Grovt"s Supplement Layout.......Gregory Swiercz Sports Copy Editor............. Dave Dziedzic Typist. ......jeanine Hynes Systems Control...... ... Bruce Oakley ND Day Edllor ................. Karen ,\lcMahon SMC Day Editor............... Mary Kay Hogan Ad Design ............................... Fran & Corby 
Pbotograpber ......................... No Exposure GuestAppearances...... Wandering Herds Applicants Joe Treanor Moose Bell Cheryl Quard & Trivia Ma Bell and Her Connections 
now available at NDISMC bookstores
"Long ago, it must be. I have a 
photograph." 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Cbief..............................)ohn \fcGrath S.WC News Editor......................Cathy Doma-nico 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Executive News Editor.........................Kelli Flint Photo Editor........................................]ohn Macor 
Tbe Obsert•er is an independent Editorials represent the opmwn of a 
News Editor..................................Tim Vercellotti 
newspaper published by the students of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
News Editor............................. David Rickabaugh Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint taries, opinions and letters are the views of 
Sports Editor ..............................Michael Ortman Controller............................................ .)oe Multlur
.\'lary's College. It docs not necessarily their authors. Column space is available to Editorials Editor.......................Anthony Walton Advertising .Wanager ....................... Chris Owen
reflect the policies of the administration of all members of the community. and the free Features Editor .........................Gregory Swiercz Production .lfanager...................:\lichael ,\lonk
either institution. The news is reported as expression of varying opinions on campus, accurately and as ohjn:tively as possible. through letters. is encouraged. .\:We Executizte Editor............\1ary Agnes Carey Circulation .Hmwger .............Tom 'lacLennan 
--------~-~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~---------~~-­
The Observer 
SMC 
Board contetnplates new forn1at 
By MARY MciNERNEY 
Netl'S Stuff 
The Saint Mary's Hoard of Gover­n;mn· met Sunday night to discuss the introduction of a new format for meetings, interaction between Ad lloc Committel'S and the Board, and a bt·tter understanding of the Board of Regents. 
Eileen Murphy. Student Body President, bq~an the meeting by announcing a more organized for­mat for Board of Governance meetings. Murphy stated, "that the meetings should not only be in­formative, but should stimulate more discussion between Board members." 
Donna Perrault, Vice President of Student Affairs, added, "that the focus ofmeetings should be more on action than announcements." The meetings will begin with current in­formation and follow up with a dis­cussion between members. 
Discussion centered on the Library and Parietals ad hoc commit­tees, stressing the the idea that more interaction between these groups and the Board is necessary. Emmie Lopez, Vice President of Academic Affairs said,"the committees should t1ll the Board in on their progress and in turn, the Board would make recommendations for improve­ment." Lopez and Murphy told ofthe progress that has been made by the Library Ad Hoc Committee. Lopez stated,"the Committee has laid the groundwork by giving survey results to the Collegt· Committee." The Board recommended that a progress report be submitted by the Parietals Ad Hoc Committee. 
Katie Conley, student representa­tive w the Board of Regents addressed the members ofthe Board of Governance to clarify some mis­conceptions concerning her role in the Board of Regents. Conley represents a student point of view, not a representation ofstudent body views which the student govern­ment deals with. Marianne O'Donnell, Director of St~dent Ac­tivities, expressed the need for 
"student input to go through the committee channels of the Board of Regents." 
Other issues discussed at the meeting were suggestions by mem­bers about presentations for future meetings, a reminder to use the Stu­dent Government Board in the Dining Hall, and an announcement of a lunch with President Duggan next Monday. 
Students become'consumers' in graduate school search 
By GIGI GOLITZ 
News Staff 
Now is not a bad time to think 
about graduate schools and perhaps 
now may be the best time to apply, 
according to Donald F. Castro, direc­
tor ofgraduate admissions for Notre 
Dame. 
Castro spoke last night in the Library Auditorium. The lecture was sponsored by the Arts and Letters Advisory Council (ALSAC). Castro said students are the consumers, as universities are depending more on the funds from graduate students. All seniors who are interested in graduate studies must start applying now, said Castro. 
To apply to graduate school, a stu­dent must take the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) and should do so by December. Castro also said to start writing universities for in­formation about the schools' programs. He advised students to talk with faculty members in their department to find out what schools would best suit their specific inter­ests. Castro added it's important to gather as much information as pos­sible about the prospective schools. 

Important criteria in selecting a graduate school include faculty, publications and research facilities. 
Prestigious schools should not al­ways be the first priority, said Castro. There are many schools where students can receive financial support. Eighty perecent of the Notre Dame graduate students recieve support. Financial support is given in the form ofa a fellowship or an assistantship ranging from 59,000 to $13,000, Castro said. 
The credentials for graduate schools include the grade point average, scores on the GRE and three letters of recommendation, Castro concluded, reminding audience members and other in­terested persons to apply im­mediately. 
• • • Gonzalez 
continuedfrom page 1 
Shootings and knifings within the "zona roja" ha~e alarmed the surrounding residential areas. "Wt·'re going to run a socially moral city, that is my aim," he said. 
Local leaders learned Cardenas was beholden to no one when police arrested several sons of influential families during raids on a popular drinking and marijuana-smoking hangout. 
"I don't care ifyou are rich or poor. Everyone is going to get the same treatment -jail," he said at the time. 
Lt·gendary corruption and favoritism among Mexican officials is another of Cardenas' targets. 
''I'm going to tell you the truth," he said, breaking into a wide grin. "If we had to put them (corrupt offi­cials) in jail, we wouldn't have the jail space. They would not fit. That is just the plain truth." 
He blames much of the problem on dismal salaries that encourage people to take money under the table. 
"When! started, a policeman was making 3,2'50 pesos ( $130) a month. Now a policeman makes 7,3'50 pesos ( S2<J4 ). which is above the minimum wage, with all 
• • .Sub 

continuedfrom page 1 
The Soviets agreed last week not to retloat the sub themselves, and on Samrday the Foreign Ministry an­nounced it had received the Soviet ambassador's formal regrets that the 
submarine  "had  entered  Swedish  
territorial  waters  and  a  military  
restricted one."  

,..........................................................'= 
iOBSERVER ERROR 
S2 off coupons for 
"GOOD TIME 
PIZZA" 

are invalid. We 
~re sorry for any 
tnconvenience. ............................................................. 
kinds of benefits," he said. "I don't doubt that some of them would be corrupt. But I can sincerely say that 9'5 to 99 percent ofpublic oft1dals here are honest." 
Cardenas knows Matamoros depends on tourism for revenue and has exempted tourist-oriented bars from the Sunday closing law. Tourists are not, however, ex­empt from random gun searches the Mexican army con­ducts in restaurants and bars. The pistol checks are aimed at reducing the number of barroom shootings. 
The mayor doesn't worry that the checks might drive tourists away: "on the contrary, this will help tourism. I've never said it's the tourists who carry pistols. It is other people, residents of Matamoros and others who are armed and I am certain by the end ofthe year, things will be ack to normal." 
The joyous frenzy that filled Plaza Hidalgo when Car­denas won the election last December has an opposite frightening side. The mayor says he continues to receive death threats that started during the campaign. 
But he is philosophical. "There is a saying in Spanish. 'Pero que ladro no meurde (a barking dog doesn't bite),"' he said. "While they're barking, there's no con­cern for me." 

Shelley Obermillersurrenders to the crowd's call to "pass herup" at Saturday's Navy game. (photo by Cheryl Erte/t) 
~"........................................................................................~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
' 
~ 
··The position of  ~  
ADVERTISING SALES MANAGER  ~ II  
is available at  ~  


' / The Observer. ' 
~ This is a paid ~ position. 
~ 

~ Call Chris at 8661. ~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ ' ~ 
L................-..,,,,,,,,,,,,,...., ........,~ 

A~~h • 
• 

: IDON'T GET NO 
:~ra.,-! 
':• 

RODNEY 
. DANGERFIELD 
:FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6 8:00: : NOTRE DAME A.C.C. •
• 

• 
TICKETS ON SALE AT THE A.C.C. : : BOX OFFICE. ALSO AVAILABLE • :AT: ROBERTSON'S INS. BEND, AND: 

• 
THE CONCORD MALL, ST. JOSEPH'S : :BANK (MAIN BRANCH), 1st SOURCE : :BANK (MAIN), ELKHART TRUTH, • : SUSPENDED CHORD (ELKHART). : 


~ fRicftar:b \t . ifAJHK iHE~1J~N& Open 6 days a wee~·:-­~­Just A ,­North 417 DIXIEW Y -of across from Went:J:ys ~ Campus 277-0734 -personalized Hair Desi!(nS  

OON'T SELL YOUR GA . TECH TICKET  
DONATE IT . to send o Logon Center child to the game.  
Tickets will be collected this week in the Dining Bolls. campus students con drop them off ot the Off Student Activities Office Znd Floor LoFortun~  


The Observer Tuesday, November 3, 1981 -page 8 
Northeast invited 

Seniors sponsor 'block party' 
By CAROL CAMP Lupo met with several city offi­
Theodore Hesburgh, " Roemer said. News Staff cials including Suth Bend police 
Members of the Northeast neigh­chief Dan Thompson and Notre 
borhood are especially encouragedThe Class of 1982 invites stu­Dame professor Art Quigley, presi­
to attend and will be admitted with a 
dents, the administration and faculty dent ofthe NortheastNeighborhood 
copy today's Observer. All proceeds
of Notre Dame, and all residents of Center, in an attempt to involve will go the Northeast Neighborhood
the Northeast neighborhood to its members of the local community in Center. 
first annual Block Party, Friday from the planning stages of this event. In 3 to 6 p.m. in the Athletic and Con­order to show their support, the vocation-center. owners of several area taverns, Because of adverse publicity including Corby's, Irish Country and 
. Begin
which resulted from last year's The Commons have consented not • • "death march," Senior Class presi­to open their establishments be­dent Tom Lupo and the senior class tween the hours of6 p.m. and 8 p:m. 
continuedfrom page 1

officers proposed that an alternative Friday. to the annual event be created. Although the event will be similar cause it does not mention theJewish 
"The idea arose from last year's to an "indoor picnic," Lupo state by name. negative reaction to the death promises that there will be Besides, he added, "One can liqui­march and we wanted to create a "something attractive" for all who date a state by stages, even a state suitable alternative for seniors and attend. Approximately thirty seniors that is recognized." give a better impression to the city," who regularly bartend at Senior Bar Departing from his prepared text, 
De Lupo explained. will dispense beer and soft drinks to Begin quoted a Saudi newspaper as When Lupo proposed the idea to the crowd. A wide variety of food, saying the Arabs "should recognize administration officials, he met ini­including brats, steak sandwiches the Israelis -but in their graves." 
presents the ND/ SMC 
NUCLEAR WEAPONS FREEZE WEEK 
CALL TO HALT THE NUCLEAR ARMS RACE 
A national campaign is under way to achieve a mutual US/ Soviet freeze o_n nucl~ar weapons. The first step of this campaign requires building support for the proposal among the American people, for the proposal will become "politically viable" only after it has sufficient public support in communities across the US. 
The \Veek: Fliers on the Freeze to each dorm room on campus; door to door Campus Petition Drive for signatures of endorsement of the above call. . 
Speaker: Ed Laarman, Ph.D. Candidate in theology. Nuclear War, Just War, and Christian Faithfulness. 
Place: Hayes-Healy Auditorium When: 7:00pm, Tuesday, November 3 
Closing Mass: Sunday, November 8: Mass for 
Peace Time: 10:30 am Place: Farley Hall Chapel Priest: Rev. Jack Keefe, CSC, 
of the Fatima Retreat Center. 
tial resistance, but after involving lo­and hot dogs will be prepared and cal officials in the planning (such as served by seniors. South Bend Common Council mem­According to Dean Roemer, the 
The driver ofthis Akron, Ohio semi-trailer truck walked away ber Lou McGann), he gained ad­
event is a celebration of the entire without a scratch after a bridge over Cole Creek, near Veedersburg, ministration endorsement for the town and gown community -the Ind., collapsed under the weight of 117,000 pounds of steel the activity. According to Lupo, "The student body and the Northeast truck was hauling. Police said the truck was at least 57 tons too University has given us their support 
neighborhood. Several well-known heavyfor the old structure, on Indiana 32 in Fountain County. ( AP after realizing that the t:vent is an act 
local officials, including the mayorLaserphoto). ofgood faith and a good time for all and police chief of South Bend will parties involved." attend, as well as President
••••••••••••e••••••••••
=••••• Mardi Gras •••••= 
••• Needs a Chairperson ••• : Inquire at Student Activities. .: e Deadline Friday Nov. 6 e 
INTERNSHIPS Information Meeting for the Counseling & Career Development Center, SMC Wednesday, Nov. 4th 6-7 pm. Student Activities Conference Room On-Campus & Off-Campus opportunities 
Anyone who read such statements 
would know "they are playing with fire," he said. 
Visit the 
Falls for one day 

The International Student Or­ganization is sponsoring a one day trip to Niagra Falls on Sunday, Nov. 
15. The charge is $55.00 and seats are limited. The sign-up deadline is this Wednesday, Nov. 3. 
For more information, contact Dr. ­
P.D. Eshmukh in room 256 of the Nieuwland Science Hall or call 277­4154. 
(International Catholic Peace Movement) 


'Sports Brie/§ 
lh I"" c!hS<'I'I'c•r and I II<' .·lssucillletll'r<'SS 
The Observer-Landon Turner Fundwill 
bend1t from a dinner and talk by Indiana basketball coach Bobby Knight. Turnn, the Hoosiers's star forward, was left paralyzed by an auto accident in July. Tickets for the dinner, which is to be held at the Century Center, are SSO. The talk is scheduled for the Morris Civic Auditorium on the same night, Monday, November 9. Admis­
sion is s10 for adults and 55 for students. Tickets are available at 7be Obsen•er ofikes on the third floor of Lafortune. Donations for the fund arc always welcome. Make checks payable to The Observer­Landon Turner Fund, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556-The Obsen,er 
The Off-Campus hockey team is organizing. In­terested OC men should sign up at the NVA office ( C-2 ACC) or call 6100. -The Observer 
Three lawyers from New York City will be panelists for a Sports and Entertainment Law Forum to be held at Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Education friday. The morning session will run from I 0 a.m. to 12 noon, and the afternoon session from 2-4 p.m. Thl· three panelists will be Seymour Peysl·r, Richard Zahnd and Sid­ney Bluming, all of whom are specialists in this expanding field of law. Peysl·r has served as vice-president of and general council to United Artistl> Corporation. Zahnd is General Council to Madison Square Garden Corporation, the company that owns and operates the New York Knicks and Rangers. Bluming once represented the New York Yankees. -The Obsen•er 

l . 
Tuesday, November 3, 1981 -page 9 
Referees are needed for interhall basketbatt. In­terestect men and women should contact the NVA office ( C-2 ACC) at 61 00. -The Observer 
The ND-SM C racing ski team will hold an or­
ganizational meeting Thursday at 8 p.m. in thl· Lafortune Little Theater. All ND-SMC students who wish to race this year, including any new members, must be present. A presentation will be made concerning the trip to Colorado at the end of Christmas break. Anyone imerested but unable to attend the meeting should call one ofthe captains -Barry Tharp ( I 5 "70 ). Nancy Sheft ( --ll-4996) or Sue Hull ( 1674) -sometime this week for more information. -The Observer 
The SMC Turkey Trot will take place on Monday. Nov. 23 at 4 p.m. The trot will take place on a three-mile course, and is open to everyone in the Saint Mary's College community. First. second and third place prizes will be awarded in the following categories: I ) st,udents; 2) male staff and faculty; and 3) female staff and faculty. Entrants may register by bringing the S I fee to the An­gela Athletic Facility between Nov. I I and Nov. 20. If you have any questions, contact Mr. Dillon at 4182 ( SMC). -The Obsen•er 
Football equipment exchange for interhaii football players will now be by appointment only. Contact the NVA office ( C-2 ofthe ACC, 6100) for an appointment. -The Obsert•er 
• • • Hall 
continuedfrom page 10 
TENNIS -In the champioship 
match of the men's open division, 
Marshall defeated Walcott by a score 
of(7-5,6-3). 
In the mixed-doubles tourna­
ment, the team of Alan Straub-joan 
Swieciak plays the team of Richard 
Clark-Louisa DeMello for the cham­
pionship. .... 
In the finals of the women's divi­
sion, Louisa DeMello beat Sue 
Gordon, 6-1, 6-3, for the champion­
ship. 
Dorothy Pashley won the 
women's grad-fac championship. 
defeating Sally Derengoski 6-4, 6-1. 
CROSS COUNTRY -The third 
and tina! meet of this years' cross 
country competition was held at thl· Burke: Memorial golf course. In­dividual winners were as follows: 
I. Tim O'Connar-Morrissey 
2. John McNamara-Aiumni ~-Bob Healy-Morrissey 
4. Tim Mdean-St. Ed's 
S. Mike Lynch-Holy Cross 

The Observer will accept classtfteds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. classtfteds to appear in the next issue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the busmess day pnor to msertton. All classifteds must be prepa1d. 
etther tn person or through the mail. 
Classifieds 
~~OTiCES 
-----·~ 

USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED . SAT . SUN 9-7 CASPERSON. 1303 BUCHANAN AD NILES 
OVERSEAS JOBS Summer/year round Europe. S Arner . Austrat1a. As1a All f1elds $500-$t200 monthly. S•gh1see­lng Free 1nfo Wn1e IJC. Box 52-IN-4 
Corona Del Mar. CA 92625 
TYPING SERVICE . call684-4t25 
----• 


REWARD!!' HAS ANYONE SEEN A LITTLE BROWN MOUSE NAMED HER­MAN VERMIN IN THE VICINITY OF CARROLL? GOES WILD TO THE BEAT OF JUMPIN JACK FLASH. IF SEEN PLEASE CALL 47091MMEDIATELY 
LOST AE-t CANON CAMERA DURING USC WEEKEND. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 2968 REWARD>!! 
LOST One Mam1ya flash a«achmenl near LeMans Hall on Halloween mght. If found. please ca114379 al SMC 
los1-ligh1 brown tweed sports tacke1 al1he Reg•na screw-your· roommate The name of John Mesmer 1s on the ms1de l1nmg If found call 8892 or return 1o 1t5 Zahm 
FOUND D•g>lal watch near Lew1s on Oc­tober 30 lden11fy 10 cla1m 862t 
--·--: 


ROOMMATE WANTED 1o share a com­pletely lurn>shed ap1 (inC CABLE T V.) close 1o N D call Dave at 283 1t69 FURNISHED APARTMENT FOR RENT 2 Bedrooms. carpeted, pnvate entrance. mce neighborhood. near bus term1nat $250 per mon1h, •ncludmg u111111es Call Bob 287-9003. after 4.30 
'

' . 
1--.---...-•• ·-... ·----···--·----­
Wan11o buy p1x from Barry Mamlo"1 c~n­cert Call after 5 p.m 234-5398 
RIDE NEEDED TO LONG ISLAND FOR 
• THANKSGIVING!! CAN LEAVE AS EAR· LY AS MONDAY AFTERNOON WILL SHARE USUAL CALL PHIL AT 8278 
RIDE NEEDED TO LIMA COLUMBUS OR FINDLAY OHIO WEEKEND OF NOV 6-8 CALL MARK 3243 
Waitresses and warters needed good work•ng cond•llons and good pay must be 21 and have 1ansporta11on call 277 -154t 

I 
,.,,.___ --~---------~ 
SURPLUS JEEPS. CARS. TRUCKS Car­1nv value $2t43 sold lor $t 00 For >n­formation on purchastng stmllar bargams. Call602·941-80t4, Ex1 3648 Phone call refundable 
COUCHES $30 and up. CHAIRS $5 and up Call Mrs Cooper at 272-3004 after t2 noon Free del1very 10 dorm 

Penn 51 1>cke1 wan1ed please call Donna at677t 
Need ONE GEORGIA TECH s1uden11ick­et. Call8621 

I NEED 2GA s lorGeog1a Tech lor VISI11ng paren1s Call 1he Madman. John E a1 8437 cause I go1s lo1s ol MONEY Th1s advertisement courtesy ol1he 714 Club 
DESPERATELY NEED 11cke1s 10 PSU game W1U buy outnght and/or trade for a nde to PSU Call Fran a14385 after 6PM 
For Sale. 211x to ND-A1r Force game. Call Ann1e at 2785 
DON T SELL YOUR GEORGIA TECH TICKET!!!!! Donate 1t 10 send a Logan Cen1er child to 1he game T1cke1s Will be collected this week 1n the D1n1ng Halls Off-campus students can drop them off at the Student Act•v•tres Off•ce--2nd floor LaFortune 
FOR SALE 2 GAs lor GA Tech Bes1 of­fer Call Eileen 5824 (SMC) 
Please!!! I NEED 2 GAS FOR GA. TECH WILL PAY BUCKS. CALL JOE 8866 
Wanted GA Tickets, PENN STATE. Call Pat8892 
I need many TECH GA llckets Please call Jess. 8659 
Despera1ely need 3 Georg>a Tech G.As Please help R11a Call 4t-4522 
· need 2 Georg1a Tech llx Call Colleen 4·1· 4908 
HEY TEX.MY CATTLERANCHER DAD­DY NEEDS 2 GEORGIA TECH GAS WILL TOP BEST OFFER CALL MARK 3895 
Georg>a Tech GAs lor sale. Call Man at 232-092t 
Need 2 GA T1x lor Sa1urday Call 8209 or 8493 after t 0.00 p.m and ask lor Joe. 
WANTED. TWO GEORGIA TECH GAS CALL TIGHE AT 232-25 78 
NEED GA TIXS FOR GEORGIA TECH-­FAMILY VISITING FIRST & ONLY TIME NO--PLEASE HELP' CALL ANN at 7960 OR 7524 ANYTIME BEFORE SAT. 1 
DESPERATELY need 1 s1udent t1cket and 2 -G A. s lor GA TECH Call Doug t057 
HELP'! ILL DEFINITELY KILL MYSELF IF I DON T GET SEVERAL GEORGIA TECH GAS!!!' PLEASE SAVE MY LIFE­·CALL 1009 
WANTED PENN STATE TICKETS. CALL PAT 8892 
Need t>x lor Penn S1a1e. Call S1an 3006 or 3008 
GROUCHY FAMILY HAS NEVER BEEN TO GAME Need 5 GEORGIA TECH GAs Call Chns 232·2649 $$$ 

UNITED WAY 
UNITED WAY 
UNITED WAY 
GIVE YOUR FAIR SHARE 
NOV.1 ·8 
UNITED WAY GIVE YOUR FAIR SHARE OF $2 OOORMORE SEE YOUR SECTION LEADER 
SENIORS Applications lor SENIOR WEEK CHAIRMAN ana SENIOR FEL· LOW CHAIRMAN are now available m 1he student acttvtttes oftrce All are en· couraged 10 apply 
Helpllll I need three (3) G.A.'s lor the Georgia Tech game. II you can help. can Tree at 6784. 
To the man from Darby s who once satd. 
1 may be easy but 1m not maybe easy but I m not cheap' does that mean that your pnces are negotrable? I hear that Slovaks are great lovers From an ad· mrrer and more 
Shouldn t anyone connected wtth Beaver be called a Cleaver? 
RIDERS NEEDED-To Des Mo•nes or alongl-80 West Leav1ng Thursday. Nov 
5. a1t 00 p m. and re1urn1ng on Sunday Call John a165t0 
WANTED Part-T1me Wa11ress Apply 1n person ONLY from 12 to ?PM t30 D1x1eway S South Bend SHANGHAI RESTAURANT 
WADE-TONS congrats on mak1ng the VARSITY sw1m team> I am so TONS proud of you as always Next lime you II have to try for no 1 J.K.t your hi Texas Spaz-L1sa' 
HULLEY 

Don t tell me I never wnte to you' II s 
you who never wntes-wench! Hope all IS 
well w1th you By 1he way. I d>d get ONE 
letter I think you can figure 11 out by your-
sell love. Googs 

THE ZAHM COFFEEHOUSE IS OPEN EVERY THURSDAY FOR YOUR EXIs­TENTIAL PLEASURE. OFFERING THE FINEST IN LIVE ENTERTAINMENT, COFFEE, TEA, HOMEMADE DONUTS, FREE POPCORN AND PAT GALLAG­HER. COME DOWN AND SEE IF OUR PROFESSIONAL CONYER· SATIONALISTS ARE PAID ENOUGH. 9-12 EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT, ZAHM BASEMENT. 
To the gtrltn the red and blue sweater who sa1 on 1he goal l1ne wall benea1h the stu· dent section. We saw you 1n our bmoculars and know that you saw us Would hke to meet you. please contact M1ke /J1m 892t 
To Karen. (1he Newlon cheerleader) Love to see you agam soon Hawkeye4t2 
How does Pam Degnan altas Tnxy Nor­ron. spell relief? HORSESHOE BAYll 
MARY BORCHERS. al1as M L01ch Shm··r~ !he people you !bve wtth Sarigna much? 
NOTRE DAME a canng place UNITED WAY ORIVE NOV 1-8 FAIR SHARE $2 00 OR MORE SEE YOUR SECTION LEADER 
Holy Cross Hogs of Sec11on 28 
Though the could have been befler !he 
sect ton couldn I have Thanks tor a fun 
and rowdy season We II never forget our 
half11me Ehows Love 1he Bad1n Babes 
P S Thanks lor 1he ha~py hour' 
I want to meet E vtl agatn The Philosopher 
NEEDED R1de to and from ELO c•.ncert at Ch>cago S1ad1um Thurs Nov 5. teavtng dround 5 00 W1ll share dnvtng expenses II you can help PLEASE call Angela at x 3 794 
Harten the Who/ You haven t a clue/ What 2t8 s taken 1rom you Cause you like abuse. Whtps & Chatns/ And Fresh­men gtrls to matm/ Wtth us Rover will stay/ Unl>llhe ransom you Will pay From the Horney devtl and the Commando tram 1he trenches/ Or more s1mply pu1. the F1esty Wenches! 
To the young man from Phtlhe/ Who tnes to be mean. but 1sn t really/ We know that your u1t1ma1e goals are 1hese To gel Freshmen gtriS drunk on kamikazes/ And proceed to have them do a stnp tease' · 
ihe Wicked Moose of the West. who now restdes 1n the East. returns lhts weekend tc affirm h1s devotton to 1nvocat1on of the SPirits and so forth 
Employers of Amenca Be torewarned!Ltsa Bontempo plans to tre­quen11y be late lor work 11 you wan1 1o know 1he sleazy facts send $11o ~yar,1he Squealer ~3.) Bay Front Pasadena. MD 21122 
Order now and rece1ve Mon1ca s Long and S1nngy Cookbook at no extra charge 
MoosP Par1y Royale The B~r1hday Moose looms Watch your tundra 


UNITED WAY STUDENT DRIVE. • • 

r: 

~ -o r: .... c: 
·a -&: .... r: ::< c t:; r: " '" "' 1 '·s;: ~ ~ ·s; ~
" r: g " ~ z " '-' ~" ~ 
·~

" 
..::: &; E " ~ :E... § " " r: ~ -.:: 1.1. " " &. "" ,;!; ~ " :;:;" r: ~ " "' ~ .,:, ;:: .;. ~ i ~ :.:" " ::< j ,!j ! =a r: -~ ~ r: ~ " <I. ~ " r: <" < = c: " > ,t; ~ ~ d'! 1:
;.;

j ::;:" " 
i:!" " 
~ '" ~ 
"' i ..."' 

100 percent 90 peccenl •J percent 
. percenl 
~ ..... percen1 

SO pP.r<-:<>n1 40 P• ·.en• 30 percent 20 percent[ 10 peccent 0 oeJcen• 
... .c "' E ~ou 
il: &. N" 
"' makeit Unitedway happen. 
·4 


r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­The Observer -Sports Tue~day, :'\ovemher 3 19H1 --page 10 
I I 
I 
I 
~-·' '"-·'-'-'·
•· 
----------+------­

• • • Joe 
1 ,,ntinued jrumfui,l(e 12 
IIowani ~aitl Sarunl<~y. ".\like: Favoritt· helped mt .til wed; learn­ing the pas:-route~. and now every­thing's line..\1ikt: wa~ a big hdp to 
illl' 
~o now with .\lik~· Hi,u;.hka an<.! [);1\'l' Comkni gont· l(>r the \Tar. and Hunter shifinl to tight ~:nd to n·placc the: injured Dean \lasztak. it would appear that the split end joh is Howard's f(>r the duration. And even though Howard won't afti>rd Blair Kicl the luxury of a tall target like Jlumcr does, if he <.:ontinucs to so>ot by defensive backs and dude dden­tkrs the way he ditl against Navy, the 
Joe Howard 
much-talked-about multi-faceted lrish ofti:'nse will become a reality. 

• • ._Rankings 
continuedfrom page 12 
Here arc this week's rankings: 
I) Northwestern (0-8) -tied NCAA record with 28th straight loss 
2) Colorado State (0-8) -total yards in the I st quarter last week: -3 
3) Stanford (1-7) -eligible for Rose Bowl 
4) State of Orgeon (2-14) ­what do you get when you cross a Du<.:k and a Beaver? 
5) Georgia Tech (1-7) -the wre<.:k has rambled since upsetting Alabama 
6) Columbia (I-6) -cream of the Ivy crop 
7) Texas-El Paso (1-7) -UTEP building a Miner dynasty 
8) Virginia (1-7) -looking for­
.fl-!N_IORS 
Surveys will be taken this week. concerning our Senior Trip. 
NO-Surveys done in Halls by Reps. 
SMC-Surveys done on Tuesday ln. Dining hall. 
54533 T""" .......s-ItBnol (Acro55 rr-M:u1ill's ...Sl. RL2Jl TUES., WED. 8~JO.S:JI THURS.,FRI.8:..10-&30-SAT.I;.JO.UI
272-0112•277-1691
•••••••iCouPONI•••••••
For The Total Look 1
1 :C..d~~~ on a Styled Hair Cut, : 
yp '-'" Shampoo. Blow Dry &
:c..'j 
Conditioner. : 
~ Rtg.$15.00 I 
: Now s10" Complete 1 
1 1
The Knights of the Castle 
ward to basketball v:ason 

9) Brown (1-6) -had six passes intercepted last week 
10) Baltimore Colts (1-8) ­lone win over Nt·w England Patsies 
Also receiving votes: North Texas State (1-7) Colorado (2-6) Pennsylvania (1-5) 
Quote of the Week: 

Tampa Bay quarterback Doug Wil­liams, after Coach John McKay posted Chicago Bear quotes in the Buc clubhouse in an effort to psych his players: "We've got a lot of players on this team who can read. And the ones who can't had it ex­plained to them." 
IH football 
The race for the playoffs 

\IE:-.:'S FOOTB.'\l.l. -In one: or the btggcM nvalnn un, am.pu~. St:mt<n·J beat Keenan this past Sunday, l + ""· K<.:enan s<:ornl its unly p!>ints in the first half as good dde!l~ivc play by enos Par Kelty :md l:d Carrer set rhe pace lor rhe ucknsivc: ~lru~gf(: 
To upnl up the second ·halt Sranford m;u·cheJ 6';. vards and ale up rhc: do<.:k for their tlrst score, whi<.:b c_;1me on :1 quartcrba<.:k :•ncak by Jim .\·lysliwil'c .\lys­liwit"..: threw to (,ary .Jbara tor the two-potnt cotwc:r­sion. To wrap up the game, _lim Clevenger recov~:red a Keenan tumble in the cndzone. '>tanford enos its season with a 1-3 rt•(·ord. 
Tht· same Jay, two highly ranked teams had it out as No. 4 ranked Off-Campus rolled owr no. 3 St. Ed's. 19-0. The Raiders continued their tine passing attack, scoring two of their three rouchdowns in the air. 0-C's tough defense, led by middle linebacker Tony Aiello, had two interceptions. The defensive line, led br Kevin Bauer, stitleu St. Ed's ground game and hampered the passing with a heavy pass rush. The Raiders now post a 3-l mark going in to their last match-up of the season. Should the Raiders deft-at Carrol, they will win their division as well as a playoff birth. 
Flanner moved in to our top--six poll this week as they knocked offa tough Zahm team, 3·0. 
Morrissey ended its season on a high note. downing Pangborn, 6-0, and raising its record to 3-1. If division­kading Dillon (3-0) defcats arch-rival Alumni (2-1) tnmorrow evening, Dillon would win the division with a 4-0 record, while .'\1orrissey would get a playoff spot as runner-up. Should Alumni win, however, all three teams would tlnish with 3· I records. In the event of su<.:h a three-way tie, the playoff spots would be 
· awarded on the basis of point differentials over the entire season. In that case, it would not look good for. the Manorites since they have outscored their op· ponents by a relatively slim 22-12 margin. Dillon owns a 50-2 buldge over its three victims and Alumni has as­saulted its tbree foes by a 62-6 count. 
-Alumni, in aid to its own cause, whipped Fisher by a score of 39·0, and head in to a must-win situation against Dillon, tomorrow evening at 7 p.m. on Cartier field. 
Holy Cross extended its record to 3·1, defeating Sorin, 14-0. The "Hogs" are now in second place in the Central Division behind Off-Campus and move up to fifth in this weeks ratings. Holy Cross could clinch a playoffspot by defeating St. Ed's next Sunday . 
In the last ofSunday's games, Cavanaugh beat Carrol, 17-0. Cavanaugh still has a shot at a playoff spot ifeither Holy Cross or Off-Campus lose in their game. 
These are the curent standings: 
NORTH CENTRAL SOUTH y-Grace 3-0 Off· Dillon 3·0 Flanner 2-1 Campus 3·1·0 Morrisey 3-1 Keenan l-2 Holy Cross 3·1-0 Alumni 2-1 Zahm 1-2 Cavanaugh 2-1-1 Fisher 1-3 Stanford 1·3 St. Ed's 2-1·1 Pangborn 0-4 y-clinched Carrol 1-3·0 playoffspot Sorin 0-4-0 
These are the Top Six as polled by the interhall staff: (they have no official bearin~ on playoffstatus) MEN'S INTER HALL FOOT BALL POLL 
5. Holy Cross ( 3·1 )
I. Dillon ( 3·0) 

2. 
y-Grace ( 3-0) 6. Flanner ( 2·1 ) 

3. 
Off-Campus ( 3· 1 ) y-has clinched 

4. 
!\1orrissey ( 3· playoffspot 


Daughters of Isabella, Notre Dame Circle 572 "CHARITY BALL" Nov. 7, 1981 9:00 pm 
$15:00 a couple Century Center--Great Hall Music by "The Innovations" Proceeds to retarded in our communit_y_ 
These are the current standings: 
DIVISION I 
DIVISION II Flanner 8-0 .'\1orrissey 6-1 Zahm 8-l Stanford 6-1 Alumni Dillon I 5-2
6-2 Holy Cross 5·2 Carroll 5-3 Howard 3-4 Sorin 4-3 Keenan 3·5 Cavanaugh 3-4 Grace 3-6 St. Ed's 3-4 Off-Flanner· 3-4 Campus 2-6 Fisher 3-4 Pangborn 1-6 Dillon II 1-6 
See HALL, page 9 

MASTERCARD SEARS 
COLLEGE CREDIT CARD PROGRAM 
-lenient terms t bl. h d.
-es a ts your ere 1t WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4 LA FORTUNE 11:30-11:30 APPLY IN TIME FOR CHRISTMAS SPONSORED BY FINANCE CLUB (3657) 
Inside ND Interhall 

Thb week's final regular season s<.:hedule: 
Tomorrow's games Alumni v. Dillon, 7 p.m. ( CartitT) x-Flanner v. (;ra~.·e; 8 p.m. (Cartier) Zahm v. Keetlail, 9 p.m. (Cartier) x-to dedde division title 
Sunday's games Holy Cross v. St. Ed's, I p.m. (Cartier) Oft~Campus v. Carroll, 2 p.m. (Cartier) Cavanaugh v. Sorin, 3 p.m. (Cartier) 
The equipment exchange for men's football will be by appointment only. Contact the NVA office ( C-2 ACC) or call 6100. 
WOMEN'S FOOTBALL -In a top game last week, Pasquerilla East upended a strong Farley team, 16-6. Halfback Jennifer Yuhl took over at the: quarterback position for the injured Theresa Reilly. Yuh! scored in the first drive on a long gainer with a stunt play. Also scoring for the Pac-East was Carla Cortez. P.E. finished the season in second place behind league power Breen­Phillips. 
Walsh registered a big upset last week, overcoming Off-Campus, 16-14. 0-C started off strong with a good first half and led, 14-8, going into the second half. Walsh's first score came on a center-keep play where Joan Smierciek ran for the touchdown. Maureen Milota, who took over at quarterback in the second half, scored the winning touchdown for Walsh, who is now 2-4. Peg­gy Owens intercepted two passes for 0-C, which is now 3· 3 and presently occupies fourth place. 
These are the current standings: 
Breen- Lewis  3-4  
Phillips  7-0  Walsh  2-4  
Pasquerilla  Pasquerilla  
East  6-2  West  1·3  
Farley  6-2  Lyons  1-5  
Off- Badin  1-6  
Campus  3·3  

•

This weeks schedule: 
Thursday's games Off-Campus v. Pasquerilla, 6:30p.m. (Cartier) Breen-Phillips v. Walsh, 7:30p.m. (Cartie t r) 
Sunday's games Lewis v. Paquerilla West, 6:30p.m. (Cartier) Off-Campus v. Lyons, 7:30p.m. (Cartier) 
SOCCER -This past Sunday, Stanford won big over Fisher, 5·0. Scoringfor the "Studs" were john Keffe,Joe Mandeville, Glen Packard, and Steve Theabold. Stanford ( 6-1 ) still has yet to face Morrissey ( 6-1 ). The game should decide the division title. 
Dillon II won its first game, defeating St. Ed's, 3·2. Mark Storen accounted for two of Big Red's goals in a game which ended regulation play in a 2·2 tie.Jan Kania and Chip Stahl did the scoring for St. Ed's, but a spirited Dillon II squad prevailed as the game was decided by penalty kicks. 
I 277-1b9l 272-0312 I 

.....-.lllit··••tctJPANDSAVEI•·••••1111•••·-·....,..1r_..........,..!J~.....-4,_._.,..r-t..,..41.-.....~.-.-'J~-~,.,....,...-.,.._41'....,... 
I 
I 

--~--~-~~­
=====· =-=~--===== 
Tuesday, November 3, 1981 -page 11 

r LOVE YOU,/oiiiTCH... BUT I 
AL50 111\JOW YOU. YOU'LL WANT 
HE. TO 6TAYHDME,aE~tN Tii£ itJVt£ AND HAKE BABIES.. 

Simon 

I 


The Daily Crossword 

©1981 by Chicago Tribune·N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 11/3/81 All Rights Reserved 
Michael Molinelli 
49 Vessels 12 Jack the of WW II former TV 51 Compete host 
(with) 13 Antic 52 Thou notes 17 Unwritten 56 Actress 19 Follows 
Arthur 24 Southern 
58 lndepen-songster dence Hall 26 Building feature part 
61 Underlying 27 Wool weight 
reason 29 Half-scores 63 Thousand: Fr. 30 Different 64 Declare 31 Spanish 65 Rubber ladies: 
trees abbr. 66 Confession 32 Lanky of faith 33 Bleaches 
67 Suffix with 35 Actress hard or Jacqueline soft 38 Uncle or 
68 Gentleman aunt: abbr. 69 Joins to 40 Word signal 43 Mardi Gras DOWN celebrator 1 Code word 46 French tov.n 
forD 48 Fathers 2 Apportion 50 Cavity 3 WWiwomen 53 Fished 4 Silky 54 Les girls 
prefix 55 Arctic taxi 5 Rounded 56 Breakfast 
roofs dish 6 Ship's bow 57 Overhang 7 Felix or 59 Java's 
Alfred neighbor 8 Joke 60 Social 9 Talents group, of 
10 Loaf a kind 11 Out of port 62 Govt. dept. 
:!.'VE qOT AG,Fl~T JZ>B 
LINEP UP WtT}i MJ APVERTISINq AC!ENL.Y IN NIOW Y~l') .4t..JP .I D~T WANT -ro 41lE Uf> I1Y CAf\EcR TO Ft.AY 1J.IE:. RoLE 



ACROSS 23 Branching 1 Calendar parts divisions 25 -hand 5 Auditor: (close by) abbr. 28 Singer 8 Celebration Lenya 12 Volcanic 31 P.ittsburgh mount products 13 Coagulated 34 Crymilk 36 Heaven: Fr. 14 Desert 37 Snake garments 39 Creator of 
15 -nothing Bill Sikes (choice 41 Gotdown words) 42 Homily: 
16 Ask pardon abbr. 18 Great 44 Neighbor of 
energy France, in 20 Meadow France 21 Pro-45 Succulent 
22 Norse fruits goddess 47 Diminish 
Tuesday's Solution 

Campus 
•..f: 1=; p.m. -colloquium, "schelling, theologian for the next ct:ntury", dr. fritz marti, southern il­linois university, memorial library lounge, sponsored by philosophy and theology depart­
ments. 

•4:30 
p.m. -seminar, "tht: ups and downs of an­dent trees: aspects of the post-gladal vegetational history of tht.· adirondack mountains, new york, stephen t. jackson, indiana university, bloomington, 278 galvin life science auditorium, sponsored by department of biology. 

•6 
p.m. -volkyball, nd v. bethel v. purdue: calumc:t, auxiliary gym, ace. all arc: wc:lcomc:. 

•7 
p.m. -spc:c:ch, "nuclear war, just war and chris­tian faitt.fulness, ed laarman, nd, hayes healy auditorium, sponsorc:d by pax christi, all arc: welcome:. 

•7:30 
p.m. -meeting, american chemical so<."icty, 113 nic:uwland, 

•H 
p.m. -lecture, "government: till: devdopmc:nt of a profc:ssion", don k. price, harvard university, century center. south hend, sponsorc:d by dc:part­mc:nt ofhistory, all arc welcome 


Television Tonight 
Tuesday, November 3 
7:00p.m. 16 MASH 22 CBS News 2tl Jokn's Wild 34 .\1aeNdl/Lt·hrer Rc:port 46 It's Your Businc:ss 
7;30 p.m. 16 All in lht· Family 22 Family Feud 28 Til" Tae I>ou~h 34 Slrai~hl Talk 46 (;od's :'llews Behind lhl' Nt·ws 
8:00p.m. 16 Fallwr ,\lurphy 22 Duk<·s of Hazzard 28 Happy Days 
3-1 <:o~lllO!'I 46 Lesln ~umrall Teachin~ 
8:30p.m.  28  Laverne and ~hirky  
46  \lu:hiana Today  
9:00 p.ll'.  22  ( liS  .\lovi<·:  '"Tht·  Prinn·" and  lht·  
C.thhie'"  
28  l"hrn··, Compan~  
34  (ldy"l")"  

46 Todav wilh Lesl<'f ~umrall 9:30p.m. 2!1 Too< :lose For Comforl 
10:00 p.m. 16 Flamin~o Road 28 liar! To llart 34 Tlw Duehc·" of Duk<· Slr<TI 46 I>wi~ht Thompson 
11:00 p.m. 16 :'llt·ws<.t·nln 16 22 22 Eyewitnl'" Nt·ws 28 Newswateh 2H 34 Th<· Dil·k Cavc:ll Shtm 46 l'raist· the Lord 
II:30 p.m. 16 Toni~ht Show 22 Aliee/.\kClout.l 28 All<· News :'lli~htlint· 34 Captioned ABC :'llews 
12:00 p.m. 28 l'amasy Island 46 L<·Mc:r Sumrall Teachin~ 
12:30 p.m. 16 Tomormw Coasl to Coasl 4h l.i~hl and Livc:l)' 
Today in History 
Today'" hi~hlight in history: 
In I ';,34, England's parliamc:nt transti:rrnl to llc:nry VII: all judicial and political powers tilflnl'f­ly exercised in England hy the pope:. 
On this date: In I 9 3'5, a Grec:k plc:bc·scite recallc:d c·xilc:d King George: II In 1946, powc:r in Japan wa~ transferred from the cmpc:ror to an dc:ctc·d assc:mbly. In 1970, \1arxist Salvador Allende: hn:amc prcsi­dl·nt ofChile:. 
And i .. 1979, thousands of soldiers, policemen and civilians lined the: funeral procc:ssion route of South Kt>n·a's assassinated Prl·sidc·nt, Park Chung­lic:c:. 
-
.... 

···········································~·············· 
:Registration for the Penn State _Lotter_y will be : Go out to dinner with George McGovern! : :rues. and Wed. the 3r~ and 4th from 10-4 at the : Win the Stu~ent l!nio~ Lor.tery an~ be the one : 
•su ticket office 1st Floor LaFortune e person to dtne wtth htm before hts speech on e e ·· . , · e Thursday Nov.5. Sign up at front desk 1n the SU • • brtnK IDs e office before 7 pm Wednesday Nov. 4. • 
lvinners allowed 2 tickets each and will be : . " . . . ,: eannounced in Friday's Observer eMcGovern wtll speak on Conservatism tn Amenca. 
• 

·············································~············· 
-
------, ----·--·---·-·--· ·----­Tuesday, November 3,.1981 -page 12 
----------------·--·---·----------------·-. 
Sports 
Start~ng split end 

Howard rises to the top 
By MICHAEL ORTMAN 
5purts Editor 
"Gerry, if a boy that size could play football, then our boys could too." 
"Honey, our boys can't run that fast." 
It was a new experit:nce for both partit:s. For Joe Howard, it was his initial post-game press conference at Notre Dame. For many of the sports writers, it was the first time they ever had interviewed a Notre Dame football player eye-level to eye­level. 
Howard seemed to be taking all the attention in stride, but it was more physical exhaustion than non­chalance that kept the-S-9, !6S­pound speedster low-keyed. "I'm more tired than anything else," he said after accounting for two Notre Dame touchdowns in Saturday's 38­0 thrashing of Navy. "After the first half, I had to remind myself that there was still another half to play. I just haven't run that much before." 
Howard's road from multi­talented high school athlete to Notre Dame's starting split end, was an unusual one. He wasn't your cut­and-dry prep all-everything with football recruiters banging down his door. "We were hesitant about offer­ing him a scholarshtp because of his size," remembers Irish recruiting coordinater Brian Boulac. "Because of his size, he wasn't exactly a blue chip prospect, although he did show up on several rating systems." 

Howard's real forte in high school actually was basketball. "He ~as recruited more so for basketball than for football," says Boulac. "But we knew because many major col­lege basketball schools were in­ter;sted in him, that he must be some kind ofathlete." 
(Perhaps the Notre Dame com­munitee will get a look at the other Joe Howard if he decides to par­tt'cipate in Bookstore XL He may be the only S-9 guard in captivity who can slam dunk from a standingstart!) 
So here is a high school athlete 
who had played tailback, split end, 
wingack and free safety at Carroll 
High School in Washington, D.C., 
but was eight inches shorter than 
Tony Hunter, and couldn't even 
bench press his weight. What t could 
Notre Dame · possibly want with 
him? 

"We were concerned about his 
size," admits Boulac, "but after 
watching films of him (playing foot­
ball) and watching him play basket­
ball, we knew he was a fine athlete. 
We felt we needed more speed in 
our recruiting and Joe could give us 
that." 

Howard's 9.8 speed in the 100­
yard dash, then, was the decisive fac­
tor in Notre Dame's interest in the 
two-sport standout: Late in the bas­
ketball season and just a few days 
SU list includes Devine 
Former Irish football Coach Dan Devine is interested in returning to a college campus next year, possibly at Arizona State University, as director of the school's athletic booster group,the Associated Press reported yesterday. Devine is reportedly one ofthe leading candidates for the vacantposi­tion of executive director of "The Sun Angels" at AsU. "IfI don't coach again, it is the type ofjob I feel I'm qualified for, and I would certainly be interedted," Devine said. "But by the same token, I haven't applied, and they haven't burned up the wires to get in touch with me." 
However, Devine will be in 

Tempe, Ariz., on Nov. 21 when he and his wife, Jo, serve as grand marshals ofthe ASU homecoming parade. Devine said he plans to talk to school officials at that time. 
After a year of retirement now, Devine said he would like to return to a college campus, and "all ofa sudden, people are showing interest in me ... I think I've made the decision to listen." 
Devine confirmed the reports lastnight, buttoldThe Observer tfiat the ASU job was just one of many options. He also indicated that he had been offered coaching jobs in recent months. -The Ob­server 
before the national signing date, the Irish coaching staff made it official, finally offering Howard the ride he was looking for. But like most recruits, they certainly weren't counting on him to contribute as early as he has. 
"We never count on freshmen to make major contributions," says Boulac. "There's too much of an ad­justment involved. When they do, it's an added bonus, like what_loe has done for us." 
Howard never figured things would happen quite this fast either. "I never thought I'd be playing (as a freshman)," he admitted after Satur­day's game. "The coaches asked me where I'd prefer playing, and I told them anywhere on offense. They gave me that chance, and I think I've made the most ofit." 
Injuries throughout _the Irish receiving corp had a silver lining for Howard. After beginning the season at wingback behind Tony Hunter, Howard moved to split end just eight days ago. "It came out at practice Monday (after USC) that I was the split end, and that was that," 
SeeJOE, page 10 

Tampa Bucs are semi -literate 
Flotsam and jetsam from the notebooks of astute voters: 
Florida State Coach Bobby Bowden gained a niche in Bottom Ten history this week. FSU tailback Greg Allen was a mere 44 yards short ofthe all-time NCAA rushing record of 366 yards. With seven minutes to go in the game, Bowden took Allen out. "I probably made a mistake," he said later. 
Dateline: ANN ARBOR-Oct. 18. Bo Schembechler on the Big Ten race: "Our chances are nil, zip, zero." Dateline: ANN ARBOR -Nov. 1. Bo Schembechler on the Big Ten race: "We're back in the hunt." 
Who says there's violence in sports? A Texas A&M cadet charged onto the field during the second quarter of the Aggies' 27-7 Joss to Southern Methodist, brandishing his saber at an SMU cheerleader. The cheer­leader had run out onto the field to celebrate a Mustang touchdown, violating Aggie rules banning people from the field during games. The cadet kneed another cheer­leader before being dragged off the field. 
AI "The Amazing" Groh, head coach at Wake Forest, astonished his assistants by successfully predicting the outcome of the Deacons' game with Clemson. "I told 

'them I was concerned whether we would ever be able 
to stop them." They didn't. Final score: Clemson 82, 
Wake Forest 24. 
Headline in the Wisconsin student newspaper before . last week's game: "Thank God. It's only Northwestern." 
A few Bottom Ten votes from elsewhere in sports: 
Dan Roundfield ofthe NBA's Atlanta Hawks, who had 
a game-high 3 I points against Philadelphia Saturday, 
went up for a slam dunk at the buzzer ...and missed. 
The Hawks lost, l 08-I 06. 
The Chicago Bulls' Ricky Sobers tipped in a half-court 
pass with just three seconds left and won the game 
Friday night .. .for the Indiana Pacers. 
See RANK.INGS, page 10 


...gets a key block from Tony Hunter (85)... ...andhigh steps into theend zone togive theIrish a 14-0 lead. (photos byjohn Macor) 






