
• • .Voyager -page 4 

VOL XVI, No. 3 THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 1981
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
NIPSCO cancels nuclear po-wer plant 
nuclear plant. directors of the Northern Indiana 
CHICAGO (AP) -The board of 
Although construction began in 1974, the plant is reported to be on­
Public Service Co. voted yesterday ly about l percent complete. Work
to cancel its planned Bailly Nuclear at the plant stopped in 1977, whenPower Plant on l.ake Michigan, said federal officials ordered a halt soNIPSCO Chairman Edmond Schroer they could examine plans for thein a statement released yesterday. 
plant's foundation. ConstructionOpponents have stalled the work never resumed at the site.
proposal for 10 years during which A single boiling-water reactor wastime the estimated cost has risen planned for the facility, which
from S I H7 million to $1.8 billion. would have been part of a NIPsCO
NIPSCO had said July 31 that the network which serves the northern
project might be abandoned if it third of Indiana.
coninued to face legal and In Januay, James G. Keppler, the
regulatory problems. However, the highest-ranking NRC official in the
company had been seeking approval Midwest, threw cold water on the
from tht• Nudear Regulatory Com· project by recommending that it be
mission to renew Its construction pnmit, which expired last year. 
scuttled. 
In a Jan. Stetter to NRC officials in Washington, Keppler said he thought the nuclear reactor site was
"this is the first time a 
too close to Chicago. "We did not nuclear plant has believe it was approporiate," Kep­pler wrote, "with today's public and
been stopped (by 
political attitudes to build a new nwar 
announcing that Israel and Egypt would resume tbe 
publicpressure)." plant this close to a major city." Prime Minister Menacbem Begin exchange a few baited autonomy talks. ( AP) Vollen said the plant failed to words sbort~y before their joint press conference comply with any ofsix siting criteria 
The proposed Bailly plant, located that has been proposed by an NRC 3'; miles from the Chicago l.oop, has task force -but not yet adopted by been opposed for a decade by en­the agency -for nuclear power Second summit vironmental and other interest plants. groups who argued that it Is too AU of those criteria relate to the close to the metropolitan area. proximity of the plant to people, 
The coalition of groups also con­Vollen said. 
Sadat, Begin discuss PLO 

tended the site, which abutts the In­"I have been told this is the first diana Dunes National LakeshC:Jre time a nuclear plant has been ALEXANDRIA, Egypt (AP) -nations said that during their sum­Strip, which Israel seized in the 1967 between Gary, Ind., and Mlchlsan stopped (by public pressure)," said President Anwar Sadat and Israeli mit they dicusssed Israel's June 7 Arab-Israeli War. City, Ind., was an environmentally Vollen. "Other plants have been can­Prime Minister Menachem Begin bombing of an Iraqi nuclear plant Begin rejected contacts with the unsound one on which to locate a celled for other reasons." 
said yesterday they will restart long­and the Israeli bombing of Palestine Yasscr Arafat's PLO, which isfiBhting stalled talks on Palestinian liberation Organization targets In for a Palestinian state on Israeli­autonomy. BeirutJuly 17 that killed at least 300 occupied land. Thejewish state says But their two-day summit left un­civilians. the PLO is a terrorist group bent on 
resolved key differences between Both aid they would not comment Irael's destruction. them, they indicated. on these talks, though Begin told "We can and have to distinguish one reporter who broached the sub­

Shaefer assumes 
Meeting reporters at Sadat's sum­between the Palestinian Arabs and


new music directorship 
mer home in this Mediterranean ject, "Israel never bombed Beirut, 
an organization called the PLO," port, the said the talks will resume my friend. You said rightly, the PLO 
Begin said. 

By ROGER WILKE Gerard Austin and Niels Rasmussen. headquarters, not Beirut."
Sept. 23 and 24 between their Sadat told President Reapn in News .Stuff Schaefer also directed the Junior Begin and Sadat said they differ
foreign ministers. No location was Washington this month that theChoir for the National Presbyterian given and neither would say over how Palestinian 
United States shouldopc:n a dialogueEdward E. Schaefer has asmed the Church in Washington D.C. and is a representatives would be attracted

whether any pJ;"omises of conces­with the PLO. Reagan refused 

new position of Director of liturgi­faculty member of the National to the negotiations for the 1.2 mil­
sions were exchanged in the 
Sadat said he Is not insistingcal Music at Notre Dame's Sacred Training Program for Church meetings. lion Palestinians living on the West autonomy talks immedi2tely include

Heart Church and hold a concurrent 

Musicians. Bank of the Jordan River and Gaza
The leaders of the once warring 
Palestinians. He also said he did notinstructorship in the music depart­recognize the PLO as the sole: repre­ment, said Provost Timothy sentative of the Palestinians on theO'Meara. 
West Bank and the Gaza.
Schaefer sald a great deal of his The sharpest diJference came upwork will be involving the "joining when the leaders were asked ifthey



Amtrak announces changes
of the music and liturgy depart­believed Palestinian sc::If-rule wasments with the ministry to develop possible without the PW.
full expression of the groups as a whole." He contends. that the Uni­WASHINGTON (AP) -Amtrak, threatened earlier Builder" to replace the "North.Star." Sadat said, "lbere may be Vl'rslty has acquired a position this year by President Reagan's budget cuts, announced -The "Pacific International," will run between Seattle problems here and there." Begin where it can influence liturgical yesterday a route network that eliminates some un­and Vancouver, B.C. said it was "not only possible, but it music on a national scale and he profitable trains but keeps most ofthe system Intact. In addition, Amtrak announced that two state­Is necessary to achieve peace with­would like to strengthen this posi­Amtrak President Alan S. Boyd said 90 percent of supported trains, run by Amtrak -the commuter line out the PLO." 
service now provided will continue after September, "Beacon Hill," between New Haven, Conn., and Boston,
tion. Egypt wants fuU judicial, ex­
So far, Schader plans no major when the 1982 fiscal year begins. and the "Black Hawk" between Chicago and Dubuque, ecutive and legislative powers changes in the liturgical depart­A number of trains that have failed to attract enough Iowa -will be discontinued because the states did not extended to the Palestinians., in ef­ment. He said he would like to first passengers to meet congressional requirements will be want to pick up the costs. 
fect a state. Israel, fearing its sc::curlty "absorb what is going on." He will ellmiated, however, and trips along the successful The reduction in trip frequencies center along the will b~t endangered, wants less also teach courses mixing music and Northeast Corridor as well as between Chicago and Mil­Northeast Corridor between Boston and Washington 
power granted 
liturgy. waukee will be cur-but also aJJected a number of other trains around the country. The summit was the sc::cond in
As director of the Chapel Choir, 
tailed. THURSDAY~ three months between the leaders.
he said he hopes to improve the Boyd sald the new ,,y;w; The Amtrak Metrollners will be reduced from 27 to liturgy at Sacred Heart. His choir will 24 a day between Washington and New York and from They have pledged to work with the perform regularly at the 10:30 mass 10 to nine a day betw<;en Boston and New York. Boyd 1978 U.S.-sponsored Camp David
~~~::Suu:: e~:~~ • FOCUS 
accords to widen peace with other Arab nation opposed to Israel's ex­on Sundays and at the Sunday eve­will allow the sys-. said the change will save Amtrak S 13.4 million. . 
ning vespers at 7: l 'i p.m. tem to operate with-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii Boyd, who predicted earlier that service would have Schaefer holds a bachelor of in the $735 million subsidy provided by Congress for to be cut by 15 percent to cope with the budget cuts, Istence. 
music degree in organ performance the next fiscal year. Amtrak originally had asked for said yesterday that costs had been cut by a variety of Sadat angrily called offthe talks in from Southern Methodist Univer­S960 million and said it could run the full system on means in addition to route changes, saving S87 million. early August of 1980 In response to S842 million. Previous cost-cutting programs announced by Israel's annexation of Arab east
sity, and two graduate degrees, one In saued music and one in organ The Amtak trains that will stop running Oct. 1 are: Amtrak included a 25 percent reduction of headquar­Jerusalem as Its eternally undivided 
performance. 
-the "Shenandoah", which runs from Washington ters staJJand changes in food services. capital. The city's Arab sector, holy to Cincinnati At a news conference after the Amtrak board ofdirec­to Christians, Jews and Moslems
Before coming to Notre Dame, he studlt:d organ under "Donald Suther­-the "North Star" an overnight train running be­tors approved the route changes, Boyd said he contains the Dome of the Rock tween Chicago and St. Paul, Minn. expected the new routes to remain the same at least for mosque, one of Islam's most sacred
land, musicology under Ruth Amtrak will Introduce daily service on the "Empire the next two years. shrines.
Steiner, and liturgical studies under 
~ 
t 


NewsBrieb 
I 
Roger Baldwin, founder of the American Civil Liberties Union and one ofits guiding lights over six decades, died in his sleep early yesterday in NewJersey, the ACLU said. He was 97. Baldwin had been admitted to Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, near his Oakland borne, on Sunday. He died ofheart failure at 7:50a.m., his son, Roger R. Baldwin, said. He had both emphysema and heart disease, but was active up to his death, holding meetings as recently as last week, said Trudi Schutz, a spokeswoman for the ACLU. "Roger Baldwin was one ofthe titans ofAmerican history," said Ira Glasser, executive director ofthe ACLU, and Norman Dorsen, president ofthe group's board, in a statement. "His stamina and persistence in pursuit of liberty was a model for those of us who follow. He thought these times were the most dangerous he had seen, but he remained relentlessly optimistic about the long-range future ofliberty. He liked to describe himself as 'tr:avelling hopefully.' Certainly his life and his journey must en­courage us all" As he requested, he will be cremated and no funeral will be held A memorial service will be scheduled at some later date, Ms. Schutz said. AP 
Walter Cronkite, popping in for a surprise visit at a Portland, Ore. newspaper office, admitted he misses beingthe anchor­man for CBS news. Cronkite sailed his 43-foot yawl into Portland on Tuesday, then dined at a restaurant in the city's Old Port section. After the meal, he agreed to visit the Portland Press Herald newsroom. Cronkite, 64, told a reporter that he missed the bustle of covering news on a daily basis. 
"I fully anticipated that I would miss it," he said. "But there comes a 
time when a person has to say 'all right, that's enough of that,' and 
move on to other things." Cronkite was accompanied on his sailipg 
trip by his wife, Betsy, and Nathaniel and Marjorie Benchley. -AP 
South Africa Prime Minister P.W. Botha said 
yesterday his troops were engaged in combat in Angola against black guerrilla!l fighting for control of South-West Africa Angola was reported ordering a general mobilization of its armed forces in response to what it has termed an invasion and attempt by the South Africans to occupy the southern part of its country. In New York, a spokesman for U.N. Security General Kurt Waldheim said Waldheim was cutting short his Austrian vacation because ofthe developments, which brought condemnation by Western powers on yesterday. The 
U.S. State Department in Washington, through spokesman Dean Fis­cher, said the Reagan administration "deplores" the attack but added the South African viewpoint must also be considered. The South African Press Association said Botha acknowledged the military action in a speech yesterday to the House ofAssembly, but that reports about a large-scale invasion are "an absolute misrepresentation of the real state of affairs." The South-West Africa People's Organization, known as SWAPO, has been fighting its low-level bush war from Angolan bases for about 15 years and the South Africans have periodically mounted strikes against them there as well as in other African states. 
-AP 
If.u.s. Senate MajorityLeader Howard Baker seemed to smile a lot when the subject ofa possible congressional candidate came up, hi~ feelings were understandable. He was talking about his daughter, ClSSy. "She's been very independent about all this" the vet~ran Tennessee Republican said Tuesday. "She's a good poli~ician. She s probably a better campaigner than I am.'' Miss Baker 2 5 h h
be kin" , ,woas 
~n wor . g ~or Cable News Network in Washington as assignments editor, has md1cated she may run for Congress from Tennessee's new­ly created 4th District. -AP 
Jorge Luis Borges, the Argentine writer who is often called the best living writer in Spanish, received a $70,000 gift for his 82nd birthday-mexico's top literary prize. The Ollin Yoliztli prize was presented to the blind poet and short-story writer by Mexican President}ose·Lopez Portillo in a ceremony Tuesday at the presiden­tial residence. Borges responded by declaring a love for Mexican literature and reciting verses of "Sweet Fatherland" by the late Mexican poet Ramon Lopez Velarde. -AP 
President Reagan is expected to visit New York on Labor Day to present the city with "a symbolic check" representing the federal government's support of a controversial highway project, a mayoral spokesman said. Reagan is expected to visit the city on Labor J?ay to present the check, Anne Putnam, a spokesman for Mayor Ed­ward I. Koch, said Tuesday. The check, representing the federal down payment on construction of the Wetway roadway, will demonstrate the government's "clear commitment" to the project, Ms. Putnam said. The construction plans call for a 4.2-mile roadway on the city's West Side along the Hudson River, much of it on landfill. The federal government is to pay for 90 percent ofthe project and the state for 1 0 percent. Estimates on the cost ofthe highway range from $1.7 billion 
to S2.3 billion. -AP 
Jane Pauley, co-anchor on NBC's "Today" show, has suf­fered a miscarriage, NBC confirmed yesterday. NBC news spokesman Ron Najman said Ms. Pauley, who was about 2 months pregnant, lost the baby Tuesday afternoon. Ms. Pauley, who is married to "Doonesbury" Garry Trudeau, is expected to return to work next week, Najm11n said. -AP 

Warm and humid with a 6o percent chance for thun­derstorms today. High in the upper 70s to around 80. A 60 percent chance of thunderstorms tonight. Low in the low to mid 60s. A good chance for thundershowers tomorrow. High in the mid to upper 70s. 


Thursday, August 27; 1981 -page 2 
Editors· Note: Every Tuesday and Thursday, The Observer wtll

AP photo file 
present "AP Photo Ftle," a photo montage of tbe best and most recent shots from our AP Laser­photo collection. "Inside" columns will continue to run every Monday, Wednesday and Friday. 
WILliAMS EXPULSION RECOM­MENDED: Sen. Harrison Williams, D.-NJ., waves to repor­ters after a Senate Select Commit­tee of Ethics bearing in W asbington tbis week. Tbe com­mittee recommended tba Wti­Uams be expelled for bls conduct in tbe Abscam case. At left Is Wil­liams' wifejeanette. 
MEETING THE BUDGET: Al­tbougb President Reagan is vacationing in California, be continues to meet wttb ad­ministration advisers In bts at­tempts to pusb tbe revamped 
fiscal 1982 budget through Congress. Members of Reagan's Budget Committee shown here witb Reagan are Donald Regan, David Stockman and Murray Weidenbaum. 

~ * * &~~--~XOB* *~
The_Ohserxer 
~J.P. and the Cats Concert Tonight iC ~ will be held in Chautauqua Coffeehouse~ 
Design Editor ................... Deirdre Murphy 
iC on the 2n.d floor of LaFortune ~tudent iC
Design Assistants ...............:.:....... Patty Fox Randy Rentner Typesetter...•...................Stephen z, Brown 

iC Center and not in front of the "Rock" iC 
News Editor .............................. Lynne Daley Copy Editor .....................Tom Melsheimer 

iC as originally planned. ~ 
Mary Fran Callahan Sports Copy Editor ............ David Dziedzic 
~ 
. 

AdDesign ......... Ferk, Shag, and the Corbs Pbotograpber.........}ohn "Photo I" Macor 
********************
Guest Appearances ....GriJf and Secundus Rache~ Rachel Max 'n' Rock 'n' RoUer 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fr1day except dunng exam and vacat1on penods. The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Marys College SubscnpiiOns may be purchased for $30 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Ob­server, P 0. Box a. Notre Dame. In· d1ana 46556. 
The Observer IS a member of the Assoc1ated Press. All reproductiOn nghts are reserved 




The Observer Thursday, August 27, 1981-page 3 

To catch Soviets 
Weinberger urges tnore funds 
Already bard at practice, tbe Fighting Irish cheerleaders are preparing themselves for a boisterous and enjoyable season. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
Reagan stands by budg~t cuts 
WASHINGTON (AP) -In a new 
drive to save additional billions In 
1982, the Reagan administration Is 
ordering federal agencies to stick to 
leaner budgets proposed by the 
president last spring rather than 
higher spending celllng.'i approved 
by Congress In july. 
Ed Dale, a spokesman for the 
Office of Management and Budget, 
said yesterday the administration 
will try to make sure Congress 
doesn't fill agency coffers to the 
brim in cases where the spending 
ceiling exceeds the budget requests 
President Reagan made in March. 
Toward that end, departments 
have been instructed to draft 
budgets based on the president's 
figures, said Dale. 
The administration also is 
challenging Congress to accept the 
reduced spending plans by raising 
the prospect that Reagan may veto 
appropriations bills exceeding his 
original spending plans. 
In what may tum into a second showdown over the budget, ad­ministration officials said they still hope to salvage up to $4 billion In spending cuts that Congress rejected when It adopted a new budget, and to net even larger savings in programs that await ac­tion. 
Although Congress approved most of the cuts sought by Reagan, it would not slash some programs as deeply as he wanted The new drive gives the administration a second shot at achieving Its Initial spending targets and Is likely to spark vehe­ment opposition. 
The administration, which Is fight­Ing to keep the 1982 budget deficit from climbing higher than its official forecast, plans to seek the additional savings for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1 through congressional ap­propriations bills. 
The budget bills enacted into law so far this year set ceilings on federal spending for different programs, but the appropriations bills will provide the actual money. / 
The Education Department, for example, will ask Congress to ap­propriate $1 3.7 billion for the fiscal year, as requested in March, even though Congress approved a U 5.5 billion ceiling. 
The department's budget would reinstate cuts -such as in aid programs for disavantaged inner­city children and the handicapped -that Congress would not go along with the first time. 
Other examples of deeper cuts the administration wants include $600 million in railroad programs, S500 million in energy assistance payments for low-income people and 5300 million for the Com­prehensive Employment and Train­Ing Act. 

ll:(Xla.m l:(Xlp.m 3:00p.m 5·00 p.rn  1115 a.m I 15 p rn 3:15pm 515pm  1130am I :lOp.m 330pm 5.30pm  11:45 a.rn 145pm :l45 pm 545pm  2lXI p m 4:!Xl p.m b!Ml p.m H!Xlpm  430 p.m 7·<Klp.m H.30pm IO:!Xl p.m  
FREE PARKIPfl ..  CAll (219) 255-3068 FOR RESERVATIONS  

The budget office spokesman said the administration "has no inten­tion" of seeking further cuts for 
1982  In  so-called  "entitlement"  
programs, . such  as  Medicaid  and  
food stamps.  

In the mammoth budget resolu­tion It passed July 31, Congress reduced projected spending for the new fiscal . year by S35 billion, according to its own calculations. The administration estimates the cuts fell some $6 billion short of what the president asked for. 
4!Klam  415 a.m  4.30a.m  5:!Kla.m  tHKlam.  
5·!Kl am  515am  530 a.m  5·45 am  IO:lOam  
7(Mlam  7 15 am  7 30 a.m  745am  123!lp.m  
9·00a.m  9·15am  930a.m  945a.m  230pm  






O'Hare 
$20 
one 
way 
S38 
ROUNDTRIP 

SANTA BARBARA, Calif (AP) ­Budget Director David Stockman declared yesterday the Pentagon "may have to do more" to cut costs, but Insisted after a conference with the Secretary of Defense that no decisions were made on how much 
. to cut military spending. 
"I don't think there Is any budget within the federal government that can't be squeezed," Stockman said after a four-hour meeting with Defense Secretary Caspar Weinber­ger and presidential counselor Ed­win Meese. 
"I think we have taken the position all along that there Is fa In every agency and we're going to root it out," he added. 
Before the meeting, Weinberger warned the nation had to act quickly to end the Soviet Union's military ad­vantage, but said he could reach an accommodation with President Reagan's budget-cutters on defense spending Issue. 
As he left the session at the Biltmore Hotel, Weinberger would only say It had been a "frank, cordial and open discussion about all these matters," but he too said no deci­silms were made. 
Stockman, who spoke to reporters shortly after Weinberger left, said he believc:d the defense secrc:tary agrec:d that the Pentagon budget had to be cut. "They have done a lot of things aln~ady and may have to do more," Stockman said. 
Stockman denied reports that he had recommc:nded cutting defense spending by II 0 billion to $20 bil­lion a year for the next two years. But he refused to provide even an estimate as to how much the military was likely to be cut. 
Maintaining "we're way behind," Weinberger said prior to the meeting that the United States needs to "do a lot very quickly to close the window ofvulnerability that people refer to in this decade." 
At the same time, he said, "we're appreciative of the economic problems.... " 
He held out hope that the ad­ministration could spend what it needs to rebuild its defenses and still achieve President Reagan's goal of balancing the budget by 1984. 
"It's a matter oftrying to do things that we all want to do as quickly and efficiently as we can wit due regard to the economy," he said. He also agreed with Deputy White House 
Press Secretary Larry Speakes that this· may be accomplished by increasing dfense spending less than 7 percent a year, a figure Reagan previously has said he was com­mitted to. 
The defense secretary flew here from the nation's capital yesterday, and was returning after meeting the president at his secluded ranch. 
Weinberger said he had come are 

-with specific recommendations on the MX system amid reports that Reagan has ruled out the so-called 
Lark Management Corp. purchases ND apartments 
was not aware of the amount of the
By ROBERT M. MAROVICH 
cash transaction, but said· .,physical 
News Staff 

improvements" will coincide with the sale. In addition to better main­
Notre Dame Apartments have tenance for the buildings, one hall . , changed ownership as Lark Manage­wiiJ be carpeted. ment Corporation has purchased Vossberg commented that the three-building complex on the security has not been a problem in a 800 block ofNotre Dame Avenue. year and a half, and said the same 
The major change In policy for the policies will remain In effect. He 70-student complex lnvolvef the added, "There will be more of a 835 building, which wiiJ now house quiet environment, however." only graduate and law students. Some apartments still are Manager Brad Vossberg·said he available. 
racetrack system as a basic mode for 
the missile but stlll was considering 
a land-based scheme. 
Weineger said he had "continued to gather the Information that was requested and we have a rather large program ready that can be fitted into the general defense program we have planned" 
Stockman, ~he president's chief budget-cutter, recommended last week that the defense budget for 1983 and 1984 be cut by Sl0 billion to $20 billion a year for the next two years to balance the budget and stave off even deeper cuts in social 
programs. 
Reagan apparently rejected cut­
ting defense spending by that much 
and sent his advisers back to the 
drawing board. 
Weinberger, himself a former 
director of the Office of Manage­
ment and Budget, said he under­·stand the problems perfecHy "because I had them myself~nce." Defense spending is now es-
See BUDGET, page 5 

The Observer Thursday, August 27, 1981 -page 4 
Prisons necessitate n1ore state taxes 

INDIANAPOUS (AP) The citizens anti-crime lobby, Protect the Innocent, said yesterday it would support an increase in the state incollle tax to build more prisons. 

"The question isn't whether the cost is going to be paid, it's by whom," said Henry. C. Karlson, a professor at Indiana University School of Law in Indianapolis and PTI's legal adviser. "When you don't' incarcerate these people, the state iS going to extract the cruelest tax of all and that is the tax of random 
crime." 
Karlson made his statements during a hearing before the Legislature's interim study commit­tee on corrections. 
Karlson and PTI president Ros Stovall said the current criminal code is strict enough when it comes to sentences, but the problem 1.; that judges often suspend punishments or grant probation instead of order­ing the offender to spend time in jail. 
"We're not asking for the criminal code to be changed,"'Stovall said. 
"Perhaps what we're suggesting is that it should be carried out," Karlson added. 

Betty Spencer of Rockville, who was injured and whose four sons were killed in a 1977 ambush on This close-up view of Saturn's rings was taken their Hollandsburg home, uggested before Voyager II's camera jammed. If It Is not fixed that th~ state could afford to raise 
Collision with debris 
•


Voyager 2 camera Jams 
PASADENA, Calif. (AP) -Bleary­eyed scientists worked yesterday to frx a jammed camera platform on Voyager 2, but they said the robot ship's sweep past Saturn was a resounding success that revealed a "kinky" new ringlet and a peculiar wrinkled moon. 
The platform jammed after the ship swept past the golden ringed plant, leaving its television cameras aiming uselessly into space as it began a five-year journey t9 Uranus. 
Scientists said the malfunction, which occurred shortly after Voyager skimmed 63,000 miles above the giant planet, might have been caused by a collision with debris from one ofSaturn's rings. 
Despite the problem, chief scien­
tist Edward Stone said he was happy. 
"We have accomplished most, if not all, of our major scientific ob­jectives," told a news conference. ·"We were fortunate that it didn't 
stop a few hours earlier." 
Mission director Richard Laeser 
said emergency actions were taken 
at Jet Propulsion Laboratory, nearly 
a billion miles from the ailing 
spacecraft, to protect the two televi­
sion cameras and three other instru­
ments on the disable~d platform. 
"The spacecraft is perfect (otherwise)," said JPL spokeSman Fraflk Bristow, and was in two-way communication with mission con­trollers. 
Voyager's quick dip past Saturn, which came late Tuesday after' a four-year journey, all but buried scientists in an avalanche ofpictures and data. 
Photography team leader Brad­ford A. Smith said one intriguing item was a ringlet that seems peculiarly kinked. Since sister ship Voyager 1 buzzed Saturn last 
River City Records' 5th Annual BACK TO SCHOOL SALE! 
' Now thru Sunday, August 30 I 
\ ALL ALBUMS & TAPES $1.00 OFF·! NO LIMIT! 
with ND-SMC l.d. (no coupons necessary) 


in space 
November, sdentists have been 
trying to explain the narrow "F-ring" 
that seemed to be made up of 
braided ringlets, and assumed the 
formation was the result of gravita­
tional tugs from the planet and other 
satellites. 
But no such satellites have been 
found, he said. 
Larry Soderblom, deputy photog­raphy team leader, said Voyager's examination ofSaturn icy moon En­celadus showed empty plains, fields of craters, wrinkled ridges and val­leys, suggesting a rather recent his­tory of activity, perhaps the flow of water that later froze. 
The moon's surface, bright as fresh snow, "has turned out to be ex­otic," he said. 
The platform became stuck while radio signals to Earth were blocked as Voyager was dipping behind Saturn. 
The spacecraft dove through a 
sparse region ofthe rings during that 
period, and champagne corks 
popped here when signals were 
received at I 1:59 p.m.(PDT) Toes-
See SATURN, page 5 
the 1.9 percent income tax and use the proceeds exclusively for prisons. 
"Indiana has the lowest income 
tax rate in the country," she said "I 
think the citizens of Indiana would 
approve an increase in the tax ifit is 
known the tax was going to be used 
for a definite thing, to improve their 
safety." 
Mrs. Spencer said she realized it 
was unpopular to suggest that legis­
lators raise taxes "because let's face 
it, nobody wants to pay more taxes." 
But she added, "our members definitely '\YOuld support this, ifthe increase were going to support prisons to protect our citizens." 
Stovall denounced the move toward early release of inmates to make room in Indiana's correctional facilities for newly convicted criminals. 
"While we are not suggesting that the early release of prisoners will create in Indiana a climate akin to that depicted in t!Je recent motion picture, 'Escape from New York,' we do suggest that widescale release projects could result in ·community crime waves," he said. 
The movie is a futuristic account of how Manhattan is turned into an island prison toward the end. of the 20th Century. 
Stovall said he was concerned about who would supervise the inmates who were released from prison before their terms were up. 
"Must we make laboratory experi­ments of the residents of our com­munities?" he asked. 
The state, he said, has the duty to provide facilities to i}.ouse criminals so that the sentencing laws can be carried out. 
"We prefer to see this committee recommend immediate building programs to create more inmate housing, so we need not discover that the 'Escape from New York' movie may in some way become a harbinger of things to come in In­diana," Stovall said. 
Theatre announces auditions 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre has announced its first audi­tions of t~e 1981-82 season. Try­outs for plays Getting Out, The Inspector General, and Six Charac­
ters inn Search ofan Author will be held tonight in Washington Hall at 7 p.m. 
Both SMC and ND students are welcome to audition and auditioners should wear clothes suitable for movement. For more in­formation call 284-4141. 


,..Refrigerators 
dorm room size students rates 
CALL 

TAYLOR 



RENTAL 
277-2190 
1427 N. Ironwood ...4 
L---------------------------------­
The Observer Anti-abortion 
Groups rallyagainst O'Connor 
NEW YORK (AP)-An extensive 
coalition of conservative Christian 
groups is mobilizing a massed 
protest against abortion and, barring 
some clear signal that she sides with 
them, against confirmation ofSandra 
Day O'Connor to the U.S. Supreme 
Court. 
More than 30 anti-abortion or­ganizations, described as the largest alliance of them ever assembled, is sponsoring a "rally for life" next Thursday in Dallas Convention Cen­ter, scene oftheir pre-election boost to President Reagan. 
"Basically, the purpose is to focus attention on a shameful chapter In the nation's history -the killingof8 million persons before birth since 197J," says the Rev. 1-1. Edward Rowe ofWashington D.C. 
"This is a serious outrage to increasing numbers of people. We're going to raise a loud and clear public outcry against it. Americans don't like to be in the same league with Nazis and Communists, promoting genocide. We're con­cerned about God's judgment on America." 
Rowe, executive director of Religious Roundtable, one ofthe ral­ly sponsors, says it appears unlikely the movement could stop Senate conflmatlon of Reagan's nominee to the high court, but that the question needed aired. 
"We arc simply raising our voices 
...Budget 
continuedfrom page 3 
timatci.l  at  S225  billion  for  fiscal  
1983  ani.l  S254  billion  for  fiscal  
1984.  
Weinberger spoke  to  reporters  

before meeting with Budget Direc­tor David Stockman and presidential counselor Edwin Meese Ill on the defense budgets for fiscal 1983 and 1984. 
Administration sources in Wash­ington said no decisions were ex­pt·cted from the meeting in Santa Barbara yesterday. 
In order to balance the budget, the administration needs $30 billion in additional savings in 1983 and an· other S44 billlon in 1984 . 
...Saturn 
continuedfrom page 4 
day, marking its completed passage. 
But radioed data received 33 
minutes later disclosed the problem. 
S<:lentists had said earlier that 
crossing through the rings might be 
risky, because ofthe chance ofcolli­
sion with debris in the rings. 
Laeser said there remained a 
"moderate probability" that such a 
colllsion caused the malfunction. 
Engineers, who worked all day 
and night Tuesday and well into yes­
terday, were awaiting playback of 
pictures and data recorded during 
the radio blackout behind Saturn. 
Uke the flight recorder In a downed 
airplane, the tape may reveal what 
happened and when. 
But all experiments stlll to be con­
ducted when the malfunctin oc­
curred were irrevocably lost, 
apparently Including planned close 
encounters with the moons Tethys 
and Rhea. 
The mission_ up to that point 
"exceeded our fondest dreams," 
photography team scientist David 
Morrison S;.&id late Tuesday. 
r>esplte the problem, Voyager began a 1.76 billion-mile trip that will take It past Uranus in 1986. l..acser said that even Ifthe problems are permanent, "we should be able ... to do more than a simple mission" at Uranus by shifting the craft to aim its camerae. 
on what is right and opposing wrong, without regard to any criteria of success," he said in a telephone interview. "We might make fools ofourselves. 
"But God has a message for kings and potentates. They did not make the laws of the universe. Kings and potentates who break those laws wlll be broken by them." 
The setting for the rally is the same as that where, a year ago, more than 15,000 ministers, priests and others stirred a pre-election groundswell of conservative religious support for Reagan. 
Organizations cooperating in the new rally include the Moral Majority, the National Right to Life Committee, March for Life, National Pro-Ufe Political Action Committee, Concerned Women of America and numerous other groups. 
Among scheduled speakers were the Rev. Jerry Falwell of Moral Majority, Evangelist James Robin­son, physicians Carolyn Gerster and Mildred Jefferson, leaders of the umbrella National Right to Life Com­mittee. 


Wilkins' health worsens 
NEW YORK (AP) -Former NAACP leader Roy Wilkins, who was hospitalized with heart problems last week, slipped back into critical condition yesterday "due to com­plications of the kidney," a spokes­woman for New York University Medical Center said. 
Wilkins, who had been trans­ferred to a private room over the weekend and was listed in fair condi­tion as recently as Monday, was returned to the intensive care unit early yesterday, said spokeswoman Judith Glass. 
"His age is working against him," she said ofthe 79-year-old patient. 
Wilkins, whose birthday is Sun­day, was hospitalized with cardiac problems a week ago Tuesday. He had previously been a patient at New York University Medical Cen­ter for two weeks in March 1979 and subsequently had a pacemaker im­planted. 
Apparently not disturbed by eltlx>r tbe long lines or bigb prices, tbese bookstore visitors took tbe unpleasant situation of buying books wttb a smile. (Pboto by]obn Macor) 
The quickestway to get 

emergency money. 

These days a trip to the college book­store can reduce your available funds to some small change. Luckily, that's about all you need to make the one phone call that can replenish your depleted funds in a couple of hours. Here's what to do: 
1•Call home. Report the situation, and tell the folks they can get emergency cash to you fast by phone. 
I·•Ask them to call Western Union's toll-free number, 800-325-6000 (in Mis­souri, 800-342-6700), anytime, day or night. They charge the money and ser­viPPi'~ tf) thPir MasterCard* or VISA t 
card. A Western Union Charge Card Money Order, up to $1,000, will be flashed to the Western Union office or agent nearest your emergency. 
J.Pick up your money-usually within two hours-at the local Western Union 
· office or agent. There are 8,500 nation­ally, except in Alaska. Conveniently, about 900 locations are open 24 hours. It's that easy. 
Be sure to remind your parents about our toll-free number. It's all they need to back you up at the bookstore. 
•The MasterCard name io owned by Interbank Card Al!SOCiation. !The VISA name is owned by VISA InternationaL 
Western Union Charge Card Money Order. 

The Observer Thursday, August 27, 1981 -page·6 

Ill~ ()l:>§~rl'~r J>rtxlut:tl()ll §tctff 
II~§ II~W tc.l~llt. (c.ll ...~~ c.t 11S1 ()( St>t>1 ()~ £()rn~ t() : 
GENERAL MEETING for all new and old workers 
Thursday at 8:00 
' 
a a I a
• l::l 

SENIORS!!! 
There will be meetings for all interested in going on trip to ND-Miami game over Thanksgiving. 
Date: Tuesday, September 1 
Time: 7:30P.M. at N.D. LaFortune Ballroom and r• 9:00P.M. at SMC LeMans Lobby ,.• 
I a
• • a a • 
AIR FORCE ALWAYS NEEDS MORE LEADERS. 
We're looking for pilots ... navigators ... missile-men ...engineers ... math majors ... people manag­ers ...doctors ... scientists ...journalists ...and more. And the Air Force ROTC program is a great way to get into a job like one of these which can help you improve your leader­ship ability and your professional competence. 
As a o:nmissione.d officer in the Air Force, you can be proud of the role you play in your community and the contribution you make to your country's security. You can know that you're doing a job of importance, a job with responsibility. 
Tile Air Force ROTC program offers a way to help you achieve these goals. As an AFROTC cadet, you'llleam about leadership, management, and more. You'llleam about bene­fits of being an officer later on, like an excellent salary, medi­cal and dental care, housing and food allowances, and 30 days of paid vacation each year. You'll discover a whole new world open to you in the Air Force. And you can get there through AFROTC. 
Look into it right away. You'll be glad you did. 
Contact Capt. Gottrich at 283-6634 for additional information. 
0 



HOTC 
Gateway to a great way of life. 

Mental hospital closes down 
INDlANAPOUS (AP) -State Mental Health Commissioner Den­nis Jones said Wednesday he hopes it will take no more than two days to relocate the 1 16 mental patients transferred by the closing of the St. Ann's facility at Hammond. 
About 90 patients were trans­ferred Tuesday to the Tri-City Men­tal Health Association Center at East Chicago. Others were sent to homes ofrelatives or to nursing homes. 
The patients are temporarily housed on cots in a gymnasium and a yet-to-be finished in-patient center at Tri-City. 
Jones said some of the patients will be moved into nursing homes in the areas and "other acute care psyc­hiatric beds. A few do have families or independent resources to fall back on temporarilY: We will admit as many as we can into Logansport State HospitaL" 
Tri-City director Glenn Kuipers said St. Ann's was closed after an agreement for a temporary state sub­sidy to keep it open fell through. 
He called the transfer of patients from the nursing home Tuesday night a "human nightmare" and said the state's refusal to provide addi­tional money to the nursing home "amounts to a decision that the men­tally ill should be served in the streets." 

Kuipers said he thought an agree­ment for temporary funding from the state had been reached during the weekend. 
Nursing home director Art March said that in order to stay open, the facility must receive a minimum of $70,000 a month. 
Jones.silid the St. Ann's situation came to his attention more than a week ago and he understood the facility planned to close about Sept. 1. 
"Their rationale (for closing) as I understood it is they are losing money and for that reason did not want to operate," Jones said. "We agreed to provide them with funds to offset any and all losses in operat­ing. Basically the intent was to solve the crisis and keep the place open during the next 90 days . 
"The owners turned down the of­fer and said 'We are going to close it and move the patients."' 
Jones said the "point of disagree­ment" during weekend conferences was that "St. Ann's wanted to find a longer term solution. We said we are not prepared to make any long term commitments, but we are not closing any doors and want to keep communications open." 
Kuipers said a Red Cross kitchen has been set up in the center to feed the patients and that local churches are providing volunteers to prepare food 
"We really can't handte these people for much more than a week, however," he said. 
The patients were sent to St. Ann's in mid-1978 when the Beatty Memorial Mental Hospital was closed at Westville. That facility now is used by the state Department of Correction. 



.. 

Sports Briefs · 
Thursday, August 21, 19s1 -page 7 
~b:y~~=h~e=:O~h~.r:e:rt:'t~'rla~n~d=~~h:e:A~s:s:u:t1:a:ft:'d~P~r:e:.r.r=*:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::s:t.:L:ou:ls:1:6:,K:a:n~::C:K:y:3::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::~::::1
Houalon 7 .533 2
•

San Francisco 8 g .471 3
:;;:;::~~vFOO TBALLir~lli ~::;::~~~~:~;~:~ 17 
Cincinnati 7 .467 3The Notre Dame Lacrosse Teamwm holct a San Diego 3 15• .187 8.5
Minnesota 20. Atlanta 19 Deniler 17, Green Bay7
meeting on Monday, August 31 at 4:30 p.m. in the ACC Auditorium. 
v.......,..........
NAnoNALFOOTBALLLEAGUE

Anyone interested in playing lacrosse should attend this meeting. If Iunday'a 11aau1ta Los Angeles 16, Pittsburgh 8 
NAnoNALCONFERENCE Phlladephia 36, New OMans 7

you would are interested but cannot attend the meeting, please call Ealt St. Louis 9, San Francisco 4 Chicago 9, San Diego 7 
Coach O'Leary at 4563.-Tbe Observer w L Pet. PF PA l"rrday'a RHulta 
Montreal 6, Cincinnati 0Washington 3 0 1.000 56 30 San Diego 33, Los Angeles 29 Atlanta 5, Philadelphia 3 St. Louis 3 0 1.000 58 34 Todlly'a Qamaa
The Notre Dame basketball team will have a new Houston 9. New York 3 
N.Y. Giants 2 1 .667 67 61 Minnesota at Los Ange~s Today'a Oamaa
assistant coach on the sidelines when the season opens this fall. Jim Philadelphia 2 1 .667 82 40 
Tomorrow' a Oamaa Houston (Niekro 1-n at New York (Falcone 2·3 orDallas 1 2 .333 62 66

Baron, an assistant at St. Bonavanture last year, has been named a part­Kansas CKy at Miami Leacho-0)
Cantral Tampa Bay at Atlanta 

time assistant to Digger Phelps. Gary Brokaw was named a full-time Green Bay 2 1 .667 62 48 Cincinnati (Pastore 3-5) at Montreal (Burris 5-5) n 
Buffalo at San Diego St. Louis (Forach 7·3) at San Diego (Wise 2-5), nassistant when Tom McLaughlin accepted the head coaching duties at Chicago 1 2 .333 31 57 Baltimore at Seanle 
Chicago (Marlz 4-5) at Los Ange~s (Valenzuela to-Massachusetts. Baron, a 1977 graduate ofSt. Bonaventure and the cap­s.lurday'a Oamaa 4),n 
Minnesota 1 2 .333 39 66 
Detroil 1 2. .333 66 75
,. Chicago at St. Louis 
tain of the school's N.l.T. championship team that year, has also Tampa Bay 1 2 .333 66 58 Pltlsburgh (Bibby 5-3) at San Francisco (Whitson 4· 
New York Giants at Pittsburgh 
5),n

worked as a coach at Phelps's summer basketball camp. -The Observer Wnt Denver at Cincinnati 
Only games scheduled. 
New Orleans 2 1 .667 58 66 Philadelphia at New York Jets San Fransisco 2 1 .667 79 72
Notre Dame's Water Polo Clubwm be holding Detroil at New Orleans AMENCAN LEAGUE
Los Angeles 1 2 .333 63 66 Cleveland at Green Bay
an organizational t meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the LaFonune Stu­Atlanta 1 3 .250 66 81 Ealt 
Houston at Dallas w L Pct. oa
dent Center. The upcoming season will be discussed. All are invited to San Fransisco at Oakland 5 .666
Detroit 11 ­
AME~ANCONFERENCE

attend. For more information, please contact Pat McDivitt at 8315. -EMI Sunday's Game B&Kimore 9 6 .600 1.5 
Washington at New England Milwaukee 10 7 .568 1.5
The Observer w L Pet. PF PA 
Boston 7 8 467 3.5
New England 3 0 1.000 64 58 Toronto 7 8 .467 3.5
The Notre Dame Men's Crew Teamwill Miami 3 0 1.000 75 47 New York 7 9 436 4 _...
N.Y.Jets 1
hold an organizational meeting tonight at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Am­2 .667 90 52 C~veland 6 11 .353 5.5
Buffalo 1 2 .333 55 54
pi theater. All returning oarsmen are required to attend. Freshmen and B&Kimore 0 3 .000 47 57 w... 
Chicago 9· 6 600 ­
others interested in rowing are asked to sign up at the upcoming Ac­Cantr81 
Oakland 8 6 .571 .5
Cincinnati 2 1 .667 75 61
tivities Night or to call Ed at 1212.-The Observer 
California 7 7 500 1.5
Cleveland 2 2 .500 66 86 Te•as 7 7 .500 1.5
Pitlsburgh 1 2 .333 69 81 KansasCily 8 9 .471 2~otre Dame women interested in training and compet­Houslon 1 2 .333 37 64 Seanle 7 9 .436 2.5 
mg in cross country this fall are invited to an organizational meeting Wnt Minnesota 6 11 .353 4
San Diego 2 1 .667 74 69
tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the basement lounge of Lyons Hall. For more 
Oakland 1 2 333 52 63 
SacondHIIIt

information, contact Pat Sullivan at 277-4291.-The-Observer KansasCily 1 2 .333 26 32 Ya-day'a Raaun. 
NAnoNAL LEAGUE 

New York 3, Minnesota 2 Denver 1 2 .333 36 64 
E... 

Kansas CKy 6, Detrort 1 
Football ticket distrlbutionbegins next week. Seanle 0 3 .000 62 81 W L Pet. GB 
Chicago at Milwaukee, ppd ra1n 
St. Louis 10 5 .667s.turday'a Ralllllta 
All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who purchased season foot­Today'aOamaeChicago 10 7 .566 1 Kansas CKy (Hammaker 0·0) at Toronto (Clancy 3-n
ball tickets during the summer should repon to the ticket windows at Chicago 24, Cincinnati 21 Montreal 6 6 .571 1.5 
Oakland (Kingman 3-5) al Boston (Tudor 2·3), nNew England 23. Oakland 21
Gate 3 of the Athletic and Convocation Center. The following dates New York 9 7 .563 1.5 California (Forsch 1 o-5) at Baltimore (McGregor 6-3), 
Buffalo 31,Cieveland 20 Philadelphia 6 9 .400 4 n
have been designated for picking up student football tickets: Seniors Tampa Bay 27, Houston 17 
Pittsburgh 6 12 .333 5.5 Seatlle (Parron 3-5) at Cleveland (Bfyleven 6-5), nMiami 31, Detrort 27
-Tuesday, Sept. I. Juniors and all undergraduate students in their w... Texas (Darwin 7-6) at Milwaukee (Lerch 4-6), n
New York Jets 37, New York Giants 24 Atlanta 11 6 .647
ninth semester or higher -Wednesday, Sept. 2. Sopho­Washington 13, B&Kimore 7 New York (Reuschel 1-1) at Chicago (Burns 6-2). n 
Los Angeles 11 .647
6 Detroil (Petry 6-6) at Minnesota (Redfern 3-7), n
mores/Graduate/Law Students -Thursday, Sept. 3. Freshmen ­Friday. Sept. 4. The ticket windows will be open from 8 a.m. until 5 
p.m. including the noon hour. The Gate 3 doors of the ACC will be open at 7:30a.m. The football ticket committee reminds students that the seats in the student section have NOT been preassigned by the Ticket Office. Therefore, if students wish to sit together, they must 
Watson eyesWorld Series
present their IDs together for adjacent seating. No student may present more than four IDs. Band members and prospective band members should check with band officials regarding ticket distribu­tion procedures. Married students who purchased tickets during the 
By BOB GREEN 
But he's being closely pressed in
summer should repon to the ACC with their respective class on the APSports Writer and Uetzke (~20,491. 'Even thouJ&h 
both categories by Ray Floyd and seven more events remain on diescheduled day. When picking up their tickets, they must present OHIO (AP) -Tom Watson's Bruce Uetzke, two of the three men PGA tour schedule this year, shouldevidence of their marital status. Any student who has not filled out a four-year reign as golfs outstanding he listed as the most likely to any one of the three win the World 
l9H I student football ticket application may do so before Sept. l, at Series, he'd virtually clinch the
performer could be on the. line this succeed on the 7,1 73-yard, par 70
the ticket office on the second floor of the ACC. Since the june 21 money-winning title. And that, in
week when he closes his American Firestone layout. 
deadline has passed, ticket avallability will be on a conditional basis. tum, could dttermine the Player of
campaign in the rich World Series of ''You have to think length when the Year.
-The Observer 
Golf. you're playing Firestone, and Ray lsao Aold of Japan and CanadianGold Medal winners Kirt Bjork andjeff He's the defending champion in and Bruce, along with Greg Norman Open champion Peter OosterhuisLogan contributed superb effons In this summer's National the elite, international, 27-man field (of Australia) cenainly have the also got in a practice round, happilySports Festival as they led the Great Lakes team to the winners' circle that begins a 72-hole chase length and are playing well right using their own clubs. The clubs,of the mini-tournament held in Syracuse, N.Y. Bjork beat opposing Thursday over the long, tough now," said Watson, who hasn't com­which had been stolen from their goalies four times and assisted on four other scores, whlle Logan Firestone Country Club course. A peted since missing the cut in the hotel Sunday night, were located 
notched two goals and three assists. The Great Lakes team beat a Bill S1 00,000 prize awaits the winner. PGA. late after a from
Tuesday tip an 
Rothsteln-led Central team in the championship game, giving these Ifhe wins again, Watson is almost Watson, Floyd and Uetzke all have anonymous telephone caller. 
a con­

Irish standouts an opponunity to compete against each other in an cenain to nail down fifth won three times this year, with Wat­Some other standouts in the fieldsecutive Player of the \"ear award
enviroment somewhat different from practice. In the championship son's victories including the Mas­include jack Nicldaus, who Is trying
and clinch a fifth straight title as the ters. On the complicated system
game, Klrt and Jeff gained a ponion of the spotlight as they each to break a year-long winless string. 
game's leading money-winner. used to determine the Player of the
scored a goal to wrap up the four game tournament and place Bill on British Open title-holder BilJ Rogers,
He leads in both categories com­Year, Watson has 84 points, Floyd 7 4 
the silver medal platform. Overall, Rothstein scored three goals and PGA champ Larry Nelson, U.S. Open
ing into this event, which he said and Uetzke 66. 
assisted on one, including one game in which he scored twice. -The would complete his American On the money-winning list, Wat­king David Graham, Lee Trevino, son has $341.110. Flova $328,385 Hale Irwin, J!!rry Pate and Tom Kite.
Observer schedule for the year. 
All r.lassdred ads rr ust be recerved by 4 45 p m rwo davs pflor ro the 
•ssue '" whH:Il the aU 1s run The Observer off1ce will accept class•fleds Mol"'day through Fmiav. 10:00 a,., to 4 45 p m All class•f•eds must be 
pre-pcm1. Plther 1n person or through the mdtl





Classifieds 
COJOY EDITORS-·
Student housing. University rated supe­Now taking applications for part & full time 
Please report for same shifts as last year Duplex. 3 rooms, 2nd floor. gas heat fur­291-1405 after Sept. 1. Captain Moonraker. starting immediately. Also--codes, etc. (In 
NOTICES TICKETS
Furnished apt., 50J 1/2 W. Jefferson, rior. Complete facilities. Clean & safe. Call cocktail w&Kressas Apply In person,2-5 
PM, Alexander's case you forgot) are on the c. ed. shelf. 

nished. 289-6307, 234-0596. ................ ····+•· ................................ .. Comelo the side door before 4:30, ask lOr Wanted many LSU GA tixl Will pay Pam.
TONY WALTON--MON-O.V. R. (4-) If you happen to see this. contact the STUDENT RENTAL ONLY 6-7UE-Vfllerle E. (4·)
8 blocks to NO. Rooms for 3 more stu­megabucks. Call Pat at 1942 
laot ol the treat rock n roll authors IM­WED-Tom M. (4~). Pam D. (7-)
BEDROOM HOUSE, FULLY 
dents. $500 semester & share of utilities. Needed responsible babysitter for new­
MEDIATELY. The Doobtes blow. Clash CARPETED W/SKY PARLOR. CALL THU·P-G. (4~). TJC.(7·)
Call266-3942 from 5 to 9 p.m. born. 3 hrs MWF mornings call 277 ·6690
forever. 272-7767 OR 232-4057. SUN·Stelftl N. (4-tJ)
WILL BUY U.S.C. G.A. TIXS 8164 

Any problems, call me (1715). Than•. 
.. ,.............................

MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Female housemates wanted for 915 MFC
Wanted: 2 LSU tickets. Please call Gisel~
Student loans. $2o-$2bo. 1 per centlnler­Corby Call 287-4006 
I PERSONALS I

5 ROOMS AVAILABLE. FURNISHED at 674-6600. 
est. Due In one month. One day wait. 
WITH BED, DESK AND DESK LIGHT. SOCCER NEED EXPERIENCED Open every class day 11:30-12:30 In 
DRAPES. INDIVIDUAL LOCKS FOR HAVE 4 BRUCE TIX (FRI9111 CHI) WILL PLAYERS (INCLUDING KEEPER) FOR LaFortune Basement. EACH ROOM. EVERYONE SHARES SELL OR TRADE FOR FOOTBALL GA'S Not to worry. Photo I Pass-Fall. LOCAL SUNDAY LEAGUE. CALL 2n­
LARGE LIVING ROOM WI FIREPLACE. CALL MARK 1584 The Photographer 4462 5 p.m.-9 p.m. 

FOR SALE 
..................................,, ........................ . 
2 BATHS-KITCHEN FURNISHED WITH LIBRARY TOURS -New students and
Stanford Freshman! Welcome to N.D. facuhy (excluding trosh). Daily Aug. 31­ALL NEEDS. HOME AWAY FROM Good luck in the neld four years I HOME. CALL DICK CODDENS, 233­
'73 Vega, runs well, ugly, $200 or best. 2245.
FOR RENT Sept. 4, 2 p.m. 
Call 233-2032. 
WANTED ...........................
IRISH COUNTRY. 744 N. NOTRE DAME NOlliE DAME STUDENTS
AVE., CORNER OF N.D. AVE. AND

STUDENT rentals near N.D. On busline. 
3 stereos w/AM-FM radio. Each set has 
NEEDAJOII? FURNISHED 1 AND 3 BEDROOM two speakers. $35, $75, and $175. Call ............................................................. 
SOUTH BEND AVE. HAPPY HOURPrivate enlrance. Newly remodeled. fully St. Mary's Dining Hall has openlnga lrFRIDAY 4-7 PM: $2.00/PITCHER,

APARTMENTS. 5 BEDROOM HOUSE. furnished. 1 bedoom. $175 & up. Also ef­HELPIII NEI;D DRIVERS. .. Ill
233-4900. 
janrtorial and clean-up posnlons. Apply af­234-2626. ficiency apts.. $115 & up. 255-8505 or Call Tom at the ObafH'Vfll' oltlce at 6661. 
$1.00/3 DRAFTS. LIVE ROCK AND ter4pm.

ROLL SATURDAY NIGHT WITH259-4629 'CRYSTAL'. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers
==Ihe ClbserYer== 
Editor-in·Cbief.........................................)ohn McGrath SMC Executive Editor .....................Mary Agnes Carey 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Managing Editor......................................Tom)ackman SMC News Editor ................................Cathy Domanico
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Executive News Editor ..............................Lynne Daley Photo Editor...................................................john Macor
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colle~e. It does not necessaril~ 
News Editor.............................................Tim Vercellotti I reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported Business Manager ....................................Rich Coppola ~ as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a Senior Copy Editor ....... Mary Fran Callahan Controller.......................................................Joe Mulftur majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views Sports Editor. ................. Michael Ortman Advertising Manager......................................Mark Ellis of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
i
Circulation ManaB"' ........................Tom Maclennan
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
J 
r 
-rr 
The Observer Thursday, August 27, 1981-page 8 

Accident prone 

Frazier acquires scars 
By HERSCHEL NISSENSON scalp was shaved so six stitches shortstop, who fielded the ball and APSports Writer could be taken -occurred last fired it toward first -into Frazier's weekend as he headed toward t}Je head 
NEW YORK -To get to their clubhouse. He reached into his This all started bck in the fourth clubhouse, the New York Yankees pocket to get some money, lowered grade when Frazier leaned back too have to walk though a narrow cor­his head as he did so and ... "ouch!" far on a swing one day, cracked his ridor where three air conditioning That's almost as embarrassing as head on a rock and had to walk ducts hang on a wall almost 6 feet what Frazier has done to rival batters around for a week or so with metal high. in his latest big league trial. In seven clamps holding the gash together. 
Since Yankee Stadium was appearances, he has -yielded only The next week, being chased by his remodeled five years ago, scores of one run in 14 innings while saving brother, he put his hand through a players have walked that corridor, three games. Goose Gossage and glass door, causing a jagged cut on but the sharp edges of those ducts Ron Davis could hardly have done his left wrist. never needed padding until George better. He still has the scar from that one, Frazier, all6-foot-5 ofhim, arrived "It's unbelievable that I've been along with nicks on the side of his 
Chalk up one more moderniza­able to come here and do what I've neck, his chin and the corner of his tion in the old ballpark courtesy of done," says Frazier. "I know as soon mouth where he went through a car Frazier, a 26-year-old relief pitcher as Gossage and Davis are ready I'll be windshield his freshman year In high who flunked three trials with the St. pitching long relief, but that's fine school for "a bunch of stitches" Louis Cardinals( 3-11, 3.86 ERA) but with me." worth. 
-has made the most of his oppor­Until this year, about the only "I stayed pretty clean until last tunity with the Yankees, who ac­thing Frazier had proved was that he ·November, when I had an appen­quired him in a minor league deal in was an accident looking for a place dicitis attack and had to have my ap­June and brought him up two weeks to happen. Pitching for Springfield in pendix out," Frazier said. "I have ago to help an ailing bullpen. the American Association inJune, he zippers all over my body." 
The mishap that cost Frazier a broke off the mound for a soft liner Just what he's been throwing at
jim Baron, DiggerPhelps' newpart-timeassistant basketballcoach. 
lock of his hair -the front of his and came face-to-face with his opposing batters. 
&nightaofQ!olumbus Coach 

presents: 
confronts

IMALBOU...... linebacker 
Fri. Sat. Aug. 27, 28, 29 
CINCINNATI (AP) -Cincinnati


7, 9, ana'll PM 
Bengais Coach Forrest Gregg, upset with the defensive performance last week against the Chicago Bears,. tangled with defensive end Gary Burley during practice. 
It was Gregg's second wrangle with defensive linemen this sum­mer. He had an earlier spat with Wil­son Whitley over play during practice. 
Wednesday's encounter started midway through th~ defensive drill


admission:$1.00 
when Burley took an outside pursuit on a play and a running back cut

members:I'BEI 
inside him for a big gain.

KOFCHALL "It's the same thing every wee~ You messing up because you don't know what you're doing," shouted 
Gregg.

y Record Jam Productions Present 
They ran the same play and Burley moved Inside to stop it. Burley was

----------~TH~E--------­
taken out after the play, threw his helmet and walked behind the of­fensive huddle. Gregg followed and the two had a discussion while practice continued. 
"I made a mental mistake and I










OOBIE 
s 
was just mad at myselt;" Burley said of throwing his helmet. "I was hot, irritated and tired and I got lazy on one play. He did what he's supposed to do. He jumped down my throat. Ask him ifhe could giv'e me my ton­
Quarterback BlairKiel rehearses Notre Dame's offense at a recent 
sils back."
practice. (Photo byjohn Macor) 

···············•••••+•••························..···~
! 4(11~1111§ ~1()1-ll ! i ~()llclcll ~ AtJ"tJ§t J1 i 
Special Ouest Star 
: 1-Cl (). ~-:
* * 
MICHAEL STANLEYBAND I : St~rllca11 £~~~~~~ i 
' 

* *
* *
* * 
:All clubs and organizations wishing to have a table:: 
Special Guest: 

* * 

DEF LE 

$ must sign up in Student Activities Office , $
ootl'1 




01¥_ 
Saturday. Aug. 29

... ()60URft[ 
: 1st·-Floor LaFortune, no later than 4:00 P. M. :
MORRIS CIVIC 


* -* 

: this Friday, August 28. :
Good seats stilr-available for the Doobie Brothers/Michael Stanley: $12.50 reserved seats at River City Records (50970 U.S. 31 North & 4626 Western 
* * 
Avenue) and ACC Box Office. 

* * 
* *•
Ozzy Osbourne tickets: $9.50 reservAd seats and on sale at River City 
• *
Records (5097.0 U.S. 3-1 North &4626 Western ­
••+••••·..•••••••••....·········••Jt.lf•••+•••··········lf.-· •.-: 

• 

The Observer Thursday, August 27, 1981 -page 9 
...Aragon 
continuedfrom page 10 

make the 1984 Olympics in the 5000 meters. Its a million-to-one shot for anyone to make the Olym­pics but he is very lucky and he just might do it. 
"Chuck Is going to be deeply missed," Plane said, "not only be­cause he was such a great athlete, but because he made many con­tributions to the South Bend and Notre Dame communities." 
...N.L 
continuedfrom PaKe 12 
was the loser. 
An !lowe drove in five runs with two doubles and a sacrifice fly as the Houston Astros stopped a four-game losing streak with 9-3 win over the visiting New York Mets. The Howe show made a winner of Don Sutton, 6-7, who pitched the first five In­nings and gave up six hits and three runs. The loser was Pat Zachry, 6-9, who lasted only three innings and gave up four Houston runs. 


ofTuesday's game in Pittsburgh. No blows were exchanged, and tbe Dodgers won the game, 9-7, in eleven innings. ( AP) 
* CIU~EIHAI ~ 


thursday night film series 
A grouping of distinguished films shown In conjunction with the course GOTH 320 (Aspects of Cinema: Image & Ideology) and sponsored by the Department of Communication & Theatre. 
All showings at the Annenberg Auditorium, the Snlte Museum of Art, Notre Dame Campus at 7:30P.M. 
Individual Admissions $1.00 ' 
Tllursdey, August27 The S..ChersWarner Brothers 1956 (119 min.) John Ford directed John Wayne and the young Natalie Wood In this classic Western based on FrankS. Nugent's script. In technicolor, wrth music by Max Steiner. 
Thursday, September 3 

The Furlea Paramount '950 (109 min.) Barbara Stanwyck and W!!lter Huston star In director An· thony Mann's emotional tale of a Western empire. From a screenplay by Charles Schnee. Music by Franz Waxman. 
Thursday, September 10 

McCabe and Mr11. Miller'warner Brothers 1971 
(121 min.) Robert Altman's ode to the Western, "a pipe dream of a movie," according to Pauline Kael. With Warren Beatty and Julie Christie. Cinematography by Vllmos Zslgmond, music by Leonard Cohen, )rom a screenplay by Brian McKay. 
Thursday, September 17 

Scarface United Artists 1931 (99 min.) ProdOced, then suppressed, by Howard Hughes, this Howard HawKs' film Is one of the earliest and best gangster films. With cinematography by Lee Garmes, a screenplay by Ben Hecht and a casl Including Paul Mun/, Ann Dvorak, George Raft and Boris Karlotf. 
Thursday, September 24 

Out of the P••t RKO 1947 (97 min.) Jacques Tourneur directed this definitive film nolr with Robert Mitchum as the hard·bolled detective, Jane Greer the Iemme fatale, young Kirk Douglas the Ice-cold gangster. Cinematography by Nicholas Musuraca. 
Thursday, October 1 

Gun Crezy United Artists 1949 (87 min.) King of the B film, Joseph H. Lewis directed this low· budget outlaw-couple·on·the·run story with John Dall and Peggy Cummins. An unexpectedly Imaginative and poetic meditation on guns, love and America. 
Thursday, October 8 

The Big Heat Columbia 1953 (90 min.) In his best American film, Fritz Lang adapted Sidney Boehm's story of a maniacal cop's battle against the syn­
dicate. With Glenn Ford, Gloria Graham and Lee Marvin. 
Series Ticket: 13 films for $10.00 
Thursday, October 15 
Bonnie and Clyde Warner Brothers 19117 (111 min.) Arthur Penn's revisionist gangster tale stars Warren Beatty, Faye Dunaway, Michael J. Pollard and Gene Hackman. From a screenplay by David Newman and Robert Benton. 
Thursday, October 29 
The Bride of Pranken•teln Universal 1935 (80 min.) Director James Whale sends up his earlier Frankenstein In this tongue-In-cheek gothic from a script by John L. Balder­son and William Hurlbut. Music by Franz Waxman; with Boris Karlofl and Elsa Lanchester. 
Thursday, November 5 
lnva11lon of the Body Snatcherll Allied Artists 
1956 (80 min.) Kevin McCarthy and Dana Wynter star In Don Siegel's science fiction allegory of 1950's Individuality vs. the Pods. 
Thursday, November 12 
Mildred Pierce Warner Brothers 1945 (113 min.) Michael Curtlz dlrectl!d this adaptation of James M. Cain's novel of maternal sell-sacrifice lor a monster-child. With Joan Crawford and Zachary Scott. Music by Max Steiner. 
Thursday, No•ember 19 
Written on the Wind Universal 1956 (92 min.) Douglas Slrk's most Intriguing and elegant 1950's. melodrama. Rock Hudson, Lauren Bacall, Robert Stack and Dorothy Malone as the poor little rich girl among the Texas oil derricks. Cinematography by Russell Matty. 
Thursday, December 3 
The Bitter Teare of Petra Von Kant Germany 
1972 [124 min.) One of Rainer Warner Fassblnder's most claustrophobic and stylized melodramas, a musical of romantic obsession and despair. With Marglt Carstensen and Hanna Schygulla. 

ALRoundup 
Yanks, Royals win 
BYTHEASSOCIATED PRESS Cesar Geronimo, a last-minute re­
placement for the injured Amos 
Pinch-hitter Bobby Murcer Otis, had two hits including a two­
singled home the winning run in the run homer, and left-bander Larry 
eighth inning Wednesday night, Gura pitched a seven-hitter Wednes­
giving the New York Yankees a 3-2 day as the Kansas City Royals beat 
victory over the Minnesota Twins. the Detroit Tigers, 6-1. 
Dave Winfield drew a one-out Kansas City broke open the game walk off loser AI Williams, 3-6, who with five runs in the fifth inning. Dar­went the distance for Minnesota. He ryl Motley led off with a walk and took second on Bobby Brown's in­came home on Geronimo's second field hit and scored when Murcer homer of the season. Singles by laced a single td left-center. Willie Wilson and Frank White 
'Ibe victory went to New York chased Detroit starter Aurelio relief ace Rich Gossage, 3-1, who Lopez, 5-2, and George Brett surrendered the tying run In the top greeted reliever George Cappuzzel­of the eighth on singles by Dave lo with a run-scoring single. Engle and pinch-hitter Hosken An RBI single by Hal McRae and a Powell plus Rob Wilfong's grounder bases-loaded walk to Motley to third, on which Engle beat the produced the Royals' other two throw to the plate. runs. 
New York played with a Gura, 8-5, struck out four and patchwork lineup that saw slumping walked four in winning his founh Reggie Jackson benched and Win· straight game since play resumed field dropped to sixth in the batting following the players' strike. order and two other regulars -out­Otis had a strained back. In the fielder Lou Piniella and second only other scheduled American baseman Willie Randolph League contest, Chicago was rained sidelined with injuries. out in Milwaukee. 

Observer 

Sports Staffers 
and Newcomers who 
missed last Tuesday's 

meeting: 
Come to the .Observer office 
this Tuesday, Sept. 1, 6:30PM. to see what you missed. 
................~.....,........".....~............................................................ ·,,,, 
.-t 
...... ~···>!! 

The Observer -Sports: Thursday, August 27, 1981 -page 10 

Chuck Aragon, Notre Dame's first sub-four minute miler, ended his Irish career in fine fashion this summer. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
Finishes N.D. career 
Aragon runs to-ward Olympics 
ByEARLRIX 
Sports Writer 
Chuck Aragon, Notre Dame's first sub-four minute miler, continued to. make Notre Dame track history this summer. 
Aragon, who started medical school at the' University of New Mexico just two weeks ago, represented Notre Dame on nation­al television three times this sum­mer. He became a three-time all-American by finishing fifth in the NCAA 1500 meters. In doing so, he lowered the school record in the 1500 meters by 4.6 seconds to 3:38.4, which is roughly equivalent to a 3:55 mile. 
On May 24 at the IC4A's Aragon finished second to Sidney Maree in the 1500. 
Aragon won the Central Col­legiate Conference Championship in the half-mile on May 30. 
The NCAA's were held in Baton 

Rouge, La., june 4-6. The Las Lunas, 
N.M., native won his qualifying heat 
in the 1500 and then finished fifth in 
the finals with a blistering 3:38.4 
that would have set the NCAA 
record a year earlier. Only three 
one-hundredths of a second 
separated third from fifth place. 
A week later Aragon competed 

against a world-class field that 
including former world record­
holder John Walker, American 
record-holder Steve Scott, Ray Flynn 
and Sidney· Maree. The race was a 
t;1ctical one, and Chuck finished 
fourth with a 4:02 mile. 
At The Athletics Congress Nation­

al Championships Aragon finished 
second in his qualifying heat and 
ninth in the finals, in which he 
probably made a tactical mistake by 
making a premature run at the 
leaders, according to Notre Dame track coachjoe Piane. · 
Chuck ended his. season and Notre Dame careeer by finishing fourth in the 1500 at the National Sports Festival in Syracuse, N.Y. 
"He had a great track season," said Piane. "Ifhe can continue to train he can run 3:51 or 3:52 in the mile and become world class in the 5000 meters." 
Aragon ran his first competitive mile on Jan. 23 of this year. Shortly afterword, Piane predicted that he would break four minutes. He then revised that prediction to 3:56, which Chuck has already surpassed. 
"If things work out with school and he continues to train, barring in-· juries," Piane said, "Chuck could 
See ARAGON, page 9 

Ovett sets mile record 
KOBLENZ, West Germany (AP) -Steve Ovett of Great Britain set a, new world record in the mile Wednesday, cover­ing the distance in 3 minutes, 
48.40 seconds to break Sebas­tian Coe's week-old mark. 
Coe, Ovett's countryman, 
had run a 3:48.53 mile in a meet 
in Zurich, Switzerland. 
Ovett's dazzling perfor­
mance was the highlight of the 
meet, which brought together 
leading track and field athletes 
from the United States, West 

Germany, the Soviet Union and 
other countries. ­
Steve Scott of the United States won the 1,500-meter race in 3:31.94 -an American record, the fourth best in his­tory and close to Ovett's world record of 3:31.36. The old 'American record of 3:33.1 was set by Jim Ryun of J(ansas in 
1967. 
Meanwhile, world record­holder Henry Rono of Kenya posted the year's best time in 
the 5,000 meters, finishing in 13:12.15. 
Ovett, performing before 22,000 fans on the same track where he set the world record in the 1,500 meters a year ago, outduelled James Robinson of the United States in the mile. 
The 25-year-old Briton saved his strength and passed Robin­son in a spectacular fmish. 
American Renaldo Nehemiah came close to breaking his world mark in the 110-meter h1gh hurdles. His winning time of 13.05 seconds was only .12 short of_the record of 12.93. 
Other American winners were Stephanie Hightower in the women's 100-meter hurdles in 13.09, national record holder Pam Spencer in the women's high jump at 6-2, Mel Lattany in the men's 100 in 
10.24, Walter McCoy in the 
men's 400 in 45.09, Larry 
Myricks in the men's long jump 
at-27-7, and jan Merrill in the 
women's 3,000 in 8:51.99. 
i( 
:~~ ~: ::. :.; : 
.. 
r-~ ;
'. 
~ ~~ :. ; iC iC

-iC: 
i=} :: 
;:· ~ 

• 
• • 1C 
: .. 



~ 1C 

•.. •1C • 
• 


iC 

THIS BUD'S FOR YOUR INTRAMURAL PROGRAM 
Why buy generic beer when you can get a quality product for only a few extra pennies per 12 ounce serving? In addition, we will donate one dollar per half keg to your notre dame intramural.athletic fund for each keg you purchase from us. (August 26 thru September 30) 
Current Prices ( plus deposit and tax) 1;l keg \l.i keg 
BUDWEISER $34.00 $20.00 
MICHELOB $38.00 $21.00 STROH'S S33.00 $20.00 BUSCH S33.00 
HEINEKIN $65.00 STROH LIGHT $30.00 'NATURAL LIGHT S33.00 
MICHELOB LIGHT $38.00 S21.00 

Taps-Cups-Ice-Always in Stock Get Decorations for your Rooms 
Ask about your· opportunity for 2 Football tickets
* * 
-This offer applies only to ND-SMC students of legal drinking age and faculty. 
HOURS:  8:30AM to 4:45 PM Daily  
9:00 AM to 11:00 am Sat.  
287-1067  840 Prarie Ave  

• 
~ 
r:= . 
;r:~ . 
~: . 
:::: 
: :· 
.. ' 
• 
·.· 
=· . 
• •1C 
·.,_._.'8r' 

---l 
I I 
I

-
I I 
1 
-----~ 

-------------~---------------------~--­

Thursday, August 27, 1981 -page 12







orts 

"What  we've  done  is  combine  pattern our offense on the ability of  to  the public...Notre Dame's head  
aspects of the offenses from each of  one player."  ·  coach wasn't the only Faust being in- 
the places that  our  coaches have  Again,  none of this is carved in  terviewed out on the field Wednes­ 
come  from,"  explains  Faust.  "So  stone. Faust makes it very plain that  day...Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Faust Sr.,  
we'll  have  a  combination  of ter­ adjustments  in  mid-season  are  up from Cincinnati for a visit, were  
minologies, plays,  and  formations  entirely possible. Overall, he points  among the observers scouting the  
from  the  Air  Force  Academy,  out, he and his staff are looking for a  Irish.  
Cubs pulled out a 9-7 victory over  
the San Diego Padres. Lee Smith, 3-5,  

gained the victory with one inning of scoreless pitching, while John Curtis, 2-5, who relieved in the 

Stabler ends retirement 
ninth, lost. Dane Iorg's bases-loaded triple keyed an eight-run outburst in the 

HOUSTON (AP)-Retired Hous­meet immediately with head Coach brief retirement was not a ploy tofifth inning, rallying the St. Louis Car­ton Oiler quarterback Ken Stabler Ed Biles and his agent, Henry Pitts, to get a better contract.
dinals to a 9-4 triumph over the San discuss his possible participation in "And they didn't want to

agreed to a new two-year c<1ntract In Philadelphia, shortstop Rafael 
Francisco Giants. and will be in uniform for Saturday's Saturday's game. capitalize on the recent unfortunate 
Free agent quarterback John injury to Gifford Nielsen and for thisRamirez singled in the I Oth inning National Football League preseason Reeves will start Saturday's game in they are to be commended," Herzegto score Glenn Hubbard with the go­game against the Dallas Cowboys, place of Gifford Nielsen, out at least said. "Contract terms were ap­ahead run as the Atlanta Braves beat Oiler General Manger Ladd Herzeg three weeks with a shoulder injury. proximately the same as the originalthe host Philadelphia Phillies 5-3. announced Wednesday. 

Herzeg stressed that Stabler's· offer made In earlyJanuary."

The two lOth-inning runs made a Herzeg said Stabler, who an­winner of Rick Camp, who is 7-1 nounced his retirement on the day with an earned run average of less he was suppose to report to training 
than 1.50. Ron Reed, 2-1, who gave camp, signed the contract upon his up slx hits in three innings of relief; arrival. SeeN L, page 9 Herzeg has said Stabler would 
Suspended indefinitely 
Templeton, fans clash 
ST. LOUIS (AP) St. Louis shortstop struck out on a pitch into the dirt Garry Templeton was fined S5,000 deliverd by San Fransisco left­and suspended indefinitely by Car­bander Gary.~velle. 
dinals' Manager Whitey Herzog Acrowd of7,766 booed the infiel­Wednesday for making obscene der when he failed to run after gestures at fans. catcher Milt May had dropped the 
Herzog yanked Templeton from ball. As Templeton returned to the the playing field during a game dugout, he thrust his right arm into against the San Fransisco Giants after the air in an obscene gesture. the shortstop was ejected by plate 
Catcalls accompanied the player'sumpire Bruce Froemming. 
return to the field after the inning, 

The action against Templeton, with shouts of derision rising again who has had many problems on and when, the third inning ended with off the field, stem from incidents Templeton in the on-deck circle. during the game's first three innings. 
Froemming, who had warned 

"I fined him S5,000 and Templeton following the first inning suspended him indefinitely," Her­incident, ejected him when the zog told reporters following the Car-gestures were repeated. Herzog in­
dinals' 9-4 victory. · tervened when the gestures became Wednesday's incident started in even more blatant as the player ap­the first inning when Templeton proached the dugout. 

BY THE ASSOCIATED PRESS 
Hot-hitting Gary Carter knocked 
in four runs wi_th a two-run homer 
and a two-run single to support Bill 
Gullickson's four-hitter as the 
Montreal Expos defeated the Cincin­
nati Reds 6-0. The performance gave 
Carter 10 RBI in his last two games, 
covering only slx official at-bats. 
Gullickson, 4-6, struck out slx and 
walked none to record his first vic­
tory sincejune 10. 
He has allowed only one run in 29 
innings since play resumed follow­
ing the major league players' strike. 
Gullickson was able to coast after 
Carter's fifth-inning single offstarter 
Mario Soto, 8-7, provided Montreal 
with a 6-0 margin. 
Tim Raines walked and stole 
second for his 56th steal in the third 
inning, tying the rookie record set 
by Gene Richards of the San Diego 
Padres in 1977. Raines sprained his 
right ankle on the steal, however, 
and was forced to leave the game 
two innings later. 
After Andre Dawson tripled to 
right-center to score Raines, Carter 
lined the first pitch from Soto into 
the left field stands for his lith 
homer. 
Raines and Dawson combined to 
give the Expos a first-inning run with 
Raines hitting a lead-off double 
before stealing third and scoring on 
Dawson's single. 
In other National League action yesterday, Steve Garvey drove in five runs and Ron Cey went 5-for-6 Wednesday afternoon to lead a 19­hit barrage and give the LOs Angeles Dodgers a 16-6 victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates. The Dodgers, who swept three games in Los An­geles, erupted for seven runs in the second inning offlosingpitcher Rick Rhoden, 7-2, and batted around 
again"in the slxth for slx more runs. 
Steve Dillard belted a two-run homer in the bottom of the ninth in­ning Wednesday as the Chicago 
N D football 

Offense shows promise 
By Skip Desjardin Morehead State, Tulane, and Moel-•more balanced attack. 
Ier, as weli as carry some things over "We don't want Notre Dame to be 
from Notre Dame's old playbook." labeled 'a tail-back offense', or'aslot-
The multiple-offense system is back offense,"' Faust emphasizes. 

AssistantSportsEditor 
There is a new look to the Notre 

designed to exploit the weaknesses "All of our players will be scoringDame football team. It goes bey~:md 
of the opposing-team's defensive threats, in any given situation, and the newly decorated offices, the 
unit, while at the same time disguis-against any opponent."redesigned uniforms, and the fresh 
ing the strengths and possible To the football enthusiast, this is personnel. It extends to the very 
weaknesses ofone's own team. Two all well and good. But to the average fundamentals ofthe game. 
men play vital roles in making it all Saturday visitor to Notre Dame This year, the Fighting Irish will 
work. Stadium, will it make a difference? play a new brand offootball. 
"The wing-back is probably the "I think even the most casual fan "We are going to play a wide-open 
most important player on the team," will notice a big difference in the game every week," says Tom Lich­
Lichtenberg points out. "He has to way we play the game," says Lichten­tenberg, the team's offensive coor­
be the best athlete because he must berg. "They will see us setting up dif­dinator. "I guess you could say we 
catch the ball, run with it, block ferently on almost every play. We will run a Dallas Cowboy type ofof­well, set up inside, and split out may not be running any more plays fense. We will work from a number wide. than Notre Dame has in the past, but ofdifferent sets, and run a variety of "It is the wing-back that makes we will start them out from a wide plays. this offense 'multiple' and success-variety ofsets. 
"It's a multiple offense," Lichten­ful, or predictable and a failure." "Very simply, we will play much berg_continues, "that will emphasize The other vital cog in the of-the same way the Dallas Cowboys precision. There's no junk involved fensive works is the quarterback. do. You will see a lot of moving here, just sound offensive strategy Faust and Lichtenberg are both around down on the field prior to designed to take advantage of the vehement in that claim. the snap. weaknesses of the other team's "We want our quarterback to be a "Ifwe've done our job right, and I defense." thrower," Lichtenberg says, "But he think we have, a lot of winning foot­
Head coach Gerry Faust and his also has to be a threat to run the ball. ball will come from what seems to 
staff say that they will strive for a Our ultimate goal is to have an of-be mass confusion." 
game plan that calls for running fense in which every player is a Gone are the days of three plays 
plays 65 percent ofthe time and pas­scoring threat." and a cloud of dust. A new era of 
sing plays 35 percent of the time. Faust cautiously points out, football science has arrived, and 
But those guideliines will in no way however, that the offensive system Gerry Faust and his staff hope to ride 
be absolute. as a whole will not be sacrificed to the crest ofits popuarity to a nation­
"Ifwe come up against a team that cohform to the style of a particular al title. 
is allowing us to chew up yardage on quarterback. IRISH ITEMS Yesterday's 
the ground, we may run 85 percent "We'll run a drop-back or semi-weather moved practice indoors 
of the time," Lichtenberg says. "By drop-back offense," he says. "I think and forced the team to postpone 
the same token, if a team has us a lot of sprint-outs and option plays their goal-line scrimmage until 
bottled up on the ground, but has a restrict some kinds of quarterbacks. today's session... the first full 
weak secondary, we could throw as But we want a quarterback who can scrimmage of the fall is slated for 
much as 85 percent ofthe time." run our offense. We aren't going to Saturday in the Stadium and is closed 



