.. .Soph Literary Festiv~l-page 5 
VOL. XV, NO. H7 
Iranians order Dwyer expelled from country 
Hy THE ASSOCIATED PRESS fourth division ofthe Ct·ntrallslamk 
Revolutionary Court in Tehran. Pars 
An Iranian t·ourt cml\'il'tt·d jailnl said. 
American writer CpHhia Dwyer on The court ruled that the prison 
~pying charge' yc~tnday, sentenced term hq,\in last May<; -the day she 
hn to time aln·ady sern·d and or­was arre~lnl at hn room in.thc Teh­
tkrnl lwr t•xpdlnl. The Statt· ran llilton llotel. 
lkpartnll'nt ~aid \lr~. Dwyn would Iranian militants had announced a 
bt· rdea~nl to !'lwiss authorities t·arly hunt ti>r American ":tgents" thl'y 
today with hn deparwre from Iran bdievl'd were linked to the abortt·d 
to lilllow shonly. hostagt· rt'scuc: mission I 0 days ear­
At hi~ honw in tlw Buffalo, N.Y., lier. and Tehran newspapt-rs said 'uburb of Amht·r~t. Mrs. Dwyt·r's Mrs. Dwyn w;ts ;tccusc:d of spying husband. John. said ht· felt ti1r the CIA. Tht· report nt·vt·r was "tn·mt·ndous. gratdul. thrilll'd, cont1rmnl officially. News of Mrs. 
rdkvnl" at nt·ws of the pending Dwyer's imminent release came first 
rdc:asc: of hi~ -i'J-}Tar-old wife. who from a spokesman at Tehran's Evin 
has hl'l'n hdd by tht· Iranians for Prison where she has been held. The 
nint· morllhs and three days. Mrs. report was confirmed tht· State 
Dwyer tkninl the spying charges at Ikpartmt·nt and by Swiss officials 
hn trial last Wednesday, according who represent li.S. interests in Iran. 
to Iranian prt·ss reports. Swiss diplomats in Tehran said 
Dwyer said he and the couple's they were still discussing the casc 
The recent production of"Pippin,"performed over the weekend by the Notre Dame Stmlent Players,
thrn· l'hildren had no word of Mrs. witt authorities and could not con­
Dwyer's travd plans. 
proved a roaring sut--cess. At left, an interestedpatron looks on as Pat Byrnes and Mike Kelley discus.~ See DWYER, page 3 tbe "ravages ofwar." (pbotos byjobn Macor) -· 
In Washin~ton, State Departmt·nt­
spokc:swoman Anita Stm:kman said 
tht· plans would he determined by 
tht• family. 
The Statt· lkpartment had been 
Reagan plan to cut aid draws fire 
inforrnnl that Iran wanted Mrs. 
Dwyer to leave tht• nnrntry im­
rm·diatcly upon her rcleast·, she said. 
Mrs. Dwyer. an ocntsional writer Hy DON MCLEOD asked to sacrifice until it hurts for most frequent campaign refrains. l!DAG may he one or· the best 
for Humanist magazine who her Associated Press Political Writer the good of the economy. Carver was backed by colleagues "pork barrel" tools in tht· White 
husband says went to Iran to But the only specific information such as Mayor Pcte Wilson of San House kit. It creates highly visible: 
re~earch the Iranian revolution for , W ASfiiNGTON -liDAG is one of they gleaned from the meeting was Dicgo, the other co-chairman of nt·w projects which politicians c;m 
frt't'lant'l' articles sht· hopt·d to sdl, those lesser known Washington that UDAG was definitely on the list mayors-for-Reagan, and Mayor Ric­point to with pride ti1r a relativc:ly 
hard Hudnut of Indianapolis, also a
was convicted on four charges, acronyms. Few outside the to be eliminatt·d. small investment. • Republican and chairman of the Na­
induding "indulging in acts of bureaucracy would even recognize The biparttsan shock the mayors A good example of liDA<; ac' tht· letters. tional League: of Cities.
espionagt· against the Islamic displayed came as something of a complishmt·nts is Baltimort"s ll;u­lkpuhlit· of Iran," according to But Prt·sident Reagan has raised a shock to White !louse officials In three years, llDAG has becn the hor Place which deannl up a Iran's ollkial Pars news agency. firestorm by proposing to eliminate around the table. booster for morc than 1,000 urban 
crumbling watt:r front and replaced It listt·d thl· othns as: a program considered by his urban projects and nearly S2 billion in
UDAG had lookcd like an easy tar­it with restaurants and tourist attrac­allies to be as Republican as Calvin federal investment, attracting more
"cstahlishing contal'ls with eounter­get, onc line in the budget that could tions. Coolidge. than S I I.<; billion from private in­
n·volutionary a~-tents in order to bc scratched for a ncat savings of Peoria received S4.9 million in
The intended demise of Urban vestors. Each UDAG dollar now
mt·diatt· between tht·m and other $67'; million a year. qut ofnearly S4 liDAG money and attracted an ad­
Development Action Grants may being pumped into one of the city
Amnit'an agnlls; l:ollaborating with billion a year in block grants to local ditonal S.W. 3 million for a South­
provide the best example of the projects generates at least S<; in
an armnl outlawt·d ~-troup in order governments, UDAG was a drop in town neighborhood rehabilitation 
to inform the former American problems facing Reagan as he tries to tht· bucket. private investment, he t•xplainc:d. 
project.

UDAG has created 463,211-1 jobs In Indianapolis, liDAG provided
hostaj.tl'S in Iran on the status of so­cut billions of dollars from federal 
on construction projects and in the 
S12.1-1 million to hc:lp build a shop­
cial and politk·al affairs in Iran" and agency budgets. Even the most vul­
"makin~-t efforts li1r estahlishing nerable items in the budget have 
completed facilities. An estimated 
ping complex

radio commmunication bt·twn·n diehard defenders in unexpected 286,1-187 of these will be permancnt In Kansas City, a hotel complc:x
mnnht·rs of tht· opposition in Iran places. jobs. 
was built with S I 0 millioprivate in­
and thl· Unitt·d States." When a delegation of big city The program also targets money vestors.
Sht· was sentt·nced to nine months mayors visited the White House last to specific projects in needy areas. In addition, UDAG is distributed In short, the new Reagan ad­
imprisonmt·nt and ordered week they got the hard news they Carver told Reagan gan the samc in tight little packages approved in miniMration was taking the ax to the
dt·portt·d from the umntry by the had expected -they would be amount of money spread around thc 
Washington and aimed at specific country would give each city so one federal program which best reflet·ts the president's own vkw of
projects. Hadn't the mayors and little money, it wouldn't do any governors been at full cry for more good. It would be better for thc urban aid and creates tht· greatest
John McGrath becomes 
publicity and patronage at the least said. 
freedom in usc of federal aid? treasury to just kecp the money, hc expense.
It also was tne gemstone offormer
new Editor-in-Chief 
President Carter's urban policy, the only major new program that he ac­
SMCfreshman anticipates
tually got through Congress. That Johnstown. l'a.. was elected editor­alone made it suspect to a new in-chief of Tbe Obser11er by a Republican administration. return ofcaptive aunt 
majority vote of the editorial board Reagan explained he would ease and mc:mbt·rs of production and the blow by distributing an undis­husint·ss departments. closed amount ofalternative money By MARY AGNES CAREY hcfore returning to the United 
A markt·ting major, McGrath through less strictured grants. But StaffReporter States. 
hopt·s to continue thl' advancement the mayors, with Republicans in the Ms. Dwyer has spoken with thc made hy The Obsert•er in rccent vanguard, begged him to take anot­"Before I couldn't study because former captive's husband, John years. "My j.toal," he said, "is to her look. 
John Mc<;rath, a junior from 
she wasn't home," eiplains Saint Dwyer. "My undt· is in really good streamlint· the production ef. 
Mayor Richard Carver of Peoria, Mary's freshman Colleen Dwyer. spirits. The kids (Mrs. Dwyt·r's three t1l'iency and continue the tradition 
Ill. -prcsident of the Republican nicce to Cynthia Dwyer, an l:hildrt·n) won't go to school today of the professional t'ditorial content 
Mayors Conference and past co­American journalist recently -thcy'rt· just too excited. My aunt of tht· papn." 
chairman of the mayors' division of released from Iran's Evin Prison. might be home tonight," she said. "With our nt·w computer set-up, 
Rcagan's presidential campaign -"Now I can't study because she's "Over 1-100 ND-SMC students had we have the pott·ntial to be one of 
patiently explained the fa(·ts of life. coming home." signed petitions for Mrs. Dwyer's tht· finest college dailks in the 
Even if it was a Carter program, he "We're kceping our fingers release. ''I'd lil-:c: to thank all the stu­country. I am looking forward to 
told the meeting, the concept was as crossed until she finally returns. dt·nts who hclpt·d out by ~igning the reaching that status." 
Republican as Coolidge. Its main We're all excited -so excitcd," the pt·titions," Ms. Dwyer comn1entc:d, Mc(;rath is currently productior 
purpose IS to lure private invest­Saint Mary's student said "We appreciatt· all your concern." mana~-ter of Tbe Obsen•er and has ment into troubled areas instead of Ms. Dwyer explained hcr aunt will "lt·an't wait to see my aunt again," :llso served as a News Editor, Senior 
pumping endll'ss federal dollars leave Tehran on "the first plane and Colleen Dwyer t•xplaint·d,"l just "itall"lkporter and Copy Editor. 
down the drain -one of Reagan's go to Vienna for a couple of hours,'' can't wait." 







News Brieb 
Monctay,February9, 19s1-page2 

c===~~======~====================================~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
The American diplomat who was recalled to Washington last weekend after a letter he wrote to a friend calling Ireland "dull" and "small potatoes" was published by The Irish Times, has been winning praise from mamy Irish. One caller to a local radio show said he thought that Robin A. Herrington, who was the cultural affairs and press officer at the united States Embassy here until his recall, should be named "Man of the Year" for his truthfulness, and several writers to the letters column ofThe IrishTimes suggested that 
Mr. Herrington be the next Ambassador to Ireland. "In another country this would have been a diplomatic incident," one comentator said privately. "But here we just say, Yes, it's true." In one published excerpt from Mr. Herrington's letter, which was accidentally sent to the newspaper along with some press releases, the diplomat wrote: "What keeps the rest of us going is wondering how the Irish will handle the next five months' mail strike (as in 1979) three months' petrol shortage (as in 1980), or diary dispute and breakdown in telephones, buses, electricity and garbage pickups (as in 1978, 1979, 1980 ... ad infinitum). At least it makes great street theater." Other parts referred to the "high cost of goods" in Ireland, the "long, dark and damp winters"and the sectarian troubles in the North as a "constant depressant." Mr. Herrington also wrote, "The one bright spot is the people, but after two and a halfyears they remain enigmatic and unpredictable despite their easy approachability and charm." It is still a mystery how copies of the letter came to be included in a publicity handout about President Reagan that was prepared by Mr. Herrington. Several journalists received the letter in this way. When a reporter at The Irish Times discovered his copy, sealed in the cus­tomary yellow envelope used by the embassy, shortly before deadline last week, the paper decided to publish excerpts. "It was in effect a briefing ofother people in the diplomatic service in Washington from their man on the spot," said an editor involved in the decision, "and that made it more than pas~ing public interest." -AP 
President Reagan's budget analysts havl proposed stringent new requirements to make Amtrak more self­supporting that could lead to the elimination of many train lines whik increasing ticket prices as much as 400 percent. The tentative plan was prepared by the Office of Management and Budget a part of an effort to bring about sharp reductions in federal outlays. At the heart of the Amtrak plan is an attempt to make riders on the nationl!ol railway pay more for service and to reduce the need for a Federal subsidy to keep the trains running in the next five years. While the average rider pays about 40 percent of the cost of a trip,the budget office's plan would have the passenger pay at least 50 percent, and more in the coming years. "With the president's decontrol ofgas and fuel prices." the budget office's report says, "the cost of driving or flying will in crease. Thus Amtrak passengers are less likely to object to paying hig­her prices." The report implies that most long-distance trains could bt eliminated on the ground that they require too much subsidization by the Federal Government and because alternative means oftransporta­tion are available. The proposab would also result in dramatically hig­her fares on many middle·distance trains outside the Northest corridor, which could eventually lead to the termination of many of 
these routes, according to the study. -AP 
Notre Dame has embarked on its second study of institutional priorities in nine years, this one a report on Priorities and Commitments for Excellence(PACE). Prof. Timothy O'Meara, provost, has been commissioned by the University's president, Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., to assess Notre Dame's progress in the 1970s and recommend priorities for allocation of resources in the 1980s. Fr. Hesburgh noted that the University has just finished a highly successful development program and needed "a clear vision of what we wart to become and how we are going to get there." The PACE report will follow a 1972-73 study by a Committee on University Priorities which provided the framework fo the recently completed fund-raising campaign. O'Meara has said he will be advised in the course of the study by two committees. One, the Provost's Advisory Committee, already exists and has as members Rev. Ferdinand L. Brown, associate provost; Sister John Miriam Jones, S.C., and M. Kat­herine Tillman, assistant provosts and Robert Gordon, vice president 
for advanced studies. -The Observer 
A book written by a University of Notre Dame English professor and published by the Notre Dame Press has been named Book of the Year by the Conference on Christianity and Literature. James Dougherty's "Fivesquare City: The City in Religious Imagina­tion" was adjudged by various critics to be the most outstanding con­tribution of the year. Citations were presented to the author and representatives of the publishing house at a meeting of the Modern Language Association in Houston last month. The book was previously named winner of the Frank O'Malley Prize in the College of Arts and Letters at the University. "The Fivesquare City" describes the city as a symbol of religious experience drawing on sculpture, the Church Fathers, ancient and modern literature, art, architecture, and urban design. The study suggests that the religious imagination may function not only in literature and art, but also in discovering the religious meaning of common urban life. A graduate of Saint Louis University and the University of Pennsylvania, Dougherty has taught at Notre Dame since 1966. He also serves Renew, Inc., a South Bend organiza­tion for low-income housing, as both handyman and an advisor to the 
board ofdirectors. -The Obseroer 
Cold with frigid temperatures today with a high near 10 degrees. Light snow expected with evening tem­peratures dipping into the teens. Cold wave will continue for the next few days. -AP 
• • .Serving ND and SMC 


The Editorial Board of The Obseroer elected John McGrath as the new Editor-in-Chief last Friday. Unlike the election of Student Government Presidents, the election of an Editor-in-Chief is a quieter and lesser known event. But it is a rather important one, because with the new Editor-in-Chief comes a new editorial board -which sets the policyfor the newspaper and runs the organization. The new board will be made up of people who have been with The Obseroer for some time and are familiar with its operation, so they are not totally unaware of the work it takes to print a daily newspaper. They will have to learn how to deal with the problems that occur in dealing with people and in­formation. 
Publishing a daily newspaper is a full-time job which becomes even more difficult when you are a full-time student. Many people on both campuses appreciate what we students are trying to accomplish on the newspaper. More often than not, that is forgotten. Together Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have a newspaper that is unique both in its operation as a campus paper and in its ability to print freely for the needs of the campus. 
The Observer exists in an ideal situation. As a student newspaper it is one of a 
handful of campus papers people who work on it computerized. It is also one believe in the necessity of offew college papers uncon­informing their community trolled in any way by either -be it a campus or a city ­school's administration. of the events taking place in This makes The Observer their world. A newspaper is 
solely responsible for what a service and is therefore it prints. The most unique responsible to the people it fact of all is that The Ob­serves. It cannot correct its serz,er is completely or­faults and become better at ganized and run by students. its job without the com­Every editor, business plaints, suggestions and help manager and reporter of the community. If you carries a full load of college stop reading the paper be­credits while they work on cause you don't like how it the paper. 2The Observer is works, then we are not ser­a non-profit organization lar­ving you. If you stop reading 
ger than many small town ~ewsapers where the staff is 

hired and paid to publish a paper. This is where we differ from a professional newspaper. We are students, not only ofthe courses we take, but ofthe journalism business itself. 
The Observer is a tool for practical experience in the fields of business and advertising, as well as in the field of journalism. Many of us have never worked for a professional newspaper. What we know about the busi­ness ofa newspaper we have learned by trial and error. We're not blind to our faults. In one sense all mistakes are inexcusable, because on any decent newspaper they should not occur. In another sense they are ex­cusable because we come into this operation inex­perienced. Every year there is a new group of students who must "relearn" what should and should not be done on a newspaper. The paper you receive will al­ways be The Observer, but the forces behind it change from year to year. Each y.ear the new board tries to surpass past accomplishments 
The other difficulty in publishing a paper comes 
when we are not supported by the people we serve. I 
don't mean financial support or even appreciation, but 
_The_OhserxeL-
Design Editor ............................. Mike Monk Design Assistants ................ Monica Gugle Elizabeth Clay Layout Staff............................... Kim Parent Rich Fischer Typesetter............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor ............................. Pam Degnan Copy Editor ..................... Dave Rickabaugh Features Layout.. ................ Scoop Sullivan Sports Copy Editor .............. Beth Huffman Systems Controi..................... Steve Brown Ad Design ............................... Woody & Co. Photograpber............................John Macor Guest Appearances .........)ohn 'New Boss' 
McGrath Mark Rust 

The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is8ublished by the students of Notre arne and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 
46556. 

The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
support as sources of information. The most frequent complaint about the paper is that we do not cover enough events at either Notre Dame orSaint Mary's. We cannot cover what we are not aware of. The Observer is for every member of both NO and SMC to use as a vehicle for information, If you get in contact with the right department for a story getting information printed is not impossible. whatever it might be. As editors, we know there are things going on at both campuses which would make interesting stories. We just don't know what or where they are. 
The main point is that The Obserz,er exists to serve the community of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. A newspaper, any newspaper, does not exist for its own 
benefit. It exists because the 
(:~,.,~--without telling us why, then 
you are not helping your 
paper, or yourself 
The Observer has complete freedom of the press. That ideal is one of the reasons why so many of us are dedicated to our work. We believe in the need to in­form our public of the events, ideas and problems that faces daily. We are all idealistic, because we know how difficult it becomes to retain that freedom in the com­
petitive world ofjournalism. We don't have to compete with another newspaper for subscribers, we can be fair­ly selective in our advertising and we do not have any outside force dictating what we should or should not print. Requiring students to pay for Thl' Obserz1er enables us to concentrate on getting inform;Jtion rather than consentrating on getting subscribers. 
Each year the new board organizes itself for a new publishing season. Mistakes arc made, but hopefully the same ones are not repeated. While they struggle through a year of learning, the community will con­tinue to receive its news every day at lunch, just as they have year after year. 

~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!THE NAZZ~~~ 

MJSIC COMPETION 
I!!!!!!!!!!!Applications due 23 February 1981 can be picked up in the Student 
Union Office or at 1he Nazz!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!l 
For irto. call Jim Steedle at 277-1347 or4763 

-


__.:.________________ --------­
The Observer Monday, February 9, 1981 -page 3 
40-day supply remains 
NJ. drought forces rationing 
TRF.NTON,N..J.  (AP)  - Man­ 
<.latory  water  rationing  was ex­ 
ten<.le<.l  from  I I 4  to  202  

communities in New jersey yester­<.lay, an<.l Govt:rnor Byrne or<.lere<.l all ofthem to begin drafting emergency plans for "possiblt-failun· of water supply systems." 
In a news conference permeate<.! by an atmosphcrt· of growing crisis, Mr. Byrne sai<.l that "maybe" a 40­day supply of water remained for about three million people in the northeastern part of the state. For the first timt•, his aides raise<.! the possibility that firemen may be orered to let buildings burn if rt·serves ~lumped to a I 0-day level. 
The prospect of unextinguished resi<.lential or industrial fires was describe<.! by Col. Clinton L. Pagano, superintendent ofthe state police, as a last-resort contingency to save the last remaining water fo drinking. 
"The <.lrought situation is critical," the governor assertt·d, stressing again the nt·ed for conservation in homes, oftkes, schools and fac­tories. 
Colonel Pagano disclose<.! during the conference that planning was nearly complete for a series of incrt·asingly severe water-saving stt·ps that his emergency prepared­ness staff woul<.l propose to the <iovernor as supplies <.lwindled. 
Tht· initial proposal, he sai<.l, would come at the ~0-day reserve lt·vel and include shutdown of in­dustrit·s using .the heaviest volumes ofwater. Those closings would con­tinue to broaden as supplies diminish, and if the forced conserva­tion did not prserve a final I 0-day supply, firemen responding to alarms would ·be under orders to save only people from burning buildings and not use hydrants, Colonel Pagano said. 
In the event that reservoirs and faucets run dry, Colonel Pagano also disclosed that his staff was drawing plans to marshal tanker trucks and freight cars to haul water from vast and still bountiful groundwater aquifers in South jersey, particularly in the Pine Barrens in Ocean County, to waterless communities in the north. 
The extension of the rationing e<.lict Mr. Byrne issue<.! last Sept. 27 covered 88 towns both wealthy sub­urban and heavily industrialized communites, principally in the central section of the state in Mid­dlesex, Somerset, Hunterdon and Mercer_ Counties. Among the 88 were a few communitit's scattered throughout the six North jersey counties afft·cted by the Sept. 27 or­der. 
None of the 88 towns face the im­mediate supply crisis now at hand for the I 14 communities under rationing for nearly four and a half months. Officials said they were placed under forced conservation to preserve their water supplit:s and provide some water to the first I 14 towns. 

Student candidates preparefor election 
By JEFF CHOPPIN 
NI!U1S Stuff 
The student elections are hen· again. Preparations for the March 3r<.l elections havt' begun. A meeting was already held for those interested in becoming Student Body Presi­dent, Studt·nt Body Vice-President, and Studt·nt Senator. 
There will be a man<.latory meeting for all prospective can­<.li<.latcs on We<.lnes<.lay, Feb. I I 6:30 
p.m. in the Stu<.lent Government offices. So far, only two names for SBP have bet•n suhmitte<.l. 
Petitions will bt· given out at the meetings. A SUP candidate ncc<.ls 200 signatures to he place<.! on the ballot, while a Senate can<.lidatc needs SO signatures. <>nly official 
petitions may be submitc<.l. Students may sign ml,rc than one petition. 
Petitions must be turned in to the OJTjbu<.lsman Election Committee by Feb. 13. 
Campaigning will take place from Feb. 2~ until March 2, with the elec­tions to take place on the folh-Jwing day. Any necessary runoff elections will be hcl<.l on March S. 
The <.listricts for the Student Senate arc: District I -St. E<.lward's, . Lewis, Holy Cross, Carroll, Sorin, Walsh, and Alumni; District 2 ­Stanford, Keenan, Zahm, Cavanaugh, Brt;cn-Philips an<.l Farley; District 3 -Dillon, Fisher, Pangborn, Lyons, Morrissey, Ballin an<.l Howar<.l; Dis­trict 4 -Flanner, Grace, Pasquerilla West and Pasqucrilla F.ast; District S -Off-campus. 

A rat,ishing UCI.A cheerleader poses for a photographer with an t:Ye for beau~y.john Macor. 
-
"Because we don't know how long a drought cycle we're in, we're trying to preserve those reserves as much as possible," said Paul H. Ar­bcsman, the <.leputy commissioner ofthe Department ofEnvironmental 1 Protection, who was name<.! today as the state's Drought Coordin~ tor. Mr. Arbcsman was given broad powers, including authority to o<.ler shut­<.lowns of in<.lustries. 
.Dwyer 

continuedfrom page I 
firm she would be expcllc<.l to<.lay. 
Mrs. Dwyer's husband, chairman of the English Department at the state college in Buffalo, N.Y., has maintained throughout his wife's imprisonment that she was not a spy, that she was sympathetic to the Iranian revolution and went to Iran because she felt the ll.S. news media were provi<.ling a one-sidell view of Iranian events. 
Meanwhile, Iranian Presi<.lcnt Abolhassan Bani-Sadr said that four Britons detained in Iran since last August on suspicion of being spies would be free<.! and that an Iranian prosecutor hall <.lctermined they wen· not guilty ofespionage. 
"Today I saw a <.locument signed by the revolutionary prosecutor which said that the <.lm:umcnt~ concerning these people arc no proof of spying," Bani-Sadr tol<.l foreign reporters Sun<.lay in Tehran. 
"This in itsdf means that these people will be free<.!. Of course, I shall ask why they have not been free<.! when they arc not guilty," he said. 
British an<.l Swedish diplomats visitt·d the four Britons Saturday in Tehran. 

Advancement Does 


Not Require An 
Advanced Degree 
You can spend another two to three years in graduate school or you can turn four years of liberal arts education into a practical, challenging and rewarding career in just three months-as an Employee Benefit Specialist. 
Benefits today amount from 30 to 35 percent of wages and salaries. Recent pension legislation has created even more demand for trained specialists. As an Employee Benefit Specialist you'll be called upon to excercise yo_ur own judgement, initiative and intelligence in a challengmff, professional environment with progressive responsibility. 
The Institute for Employee Benefits Training is the first and most prestigious school in the United States, training Employee Benefits and Pension Specialists. This is a dynamic, growing career field in which advancemen~ does not require an advanced degree. Our graduates are 1n demand by law firms, pension consulting firms, insurance companies, banks, and personnel and benefits departments of corporations. The Institute's Placement Servi?ewi_llplace you too. If not, you will be eligible for a substantial tu1t1on refund. 
Furthermore, you will earn graduate credit towards a Master of Arts in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law for all course work completed at The Institute. 
If you're a senior of high academic standing and !coking for a meaningful career, contact your Placement Offtce for our catalog and arrange to have an interview with our repre­sentative. 
We will visit your campus on: FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1981 
recruitment will take place on 
St. mary's campus 

The Institute 
235 South 17th Street Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 
tor 
(215) 732-6800

Employee Benefits Training 
(Operated by Para-Legal, Inc.) 

Approved by The American Bar Association Programs Earn Full Credit Toward M.A. in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law. A c _ooa ~~ 




FRFSHMAN"hiiei-eSteJinihe
COLLEGE OF
ARTSANDLETIERS 
The Dean's Meeting with with Freshman who plan to enter the College of Arts and Letters will be held on Monday, February 9, 1981 at 7:3(\>m in the Auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education. 
Following are the topics which will be covered: 
I. Dean Oiarles-The College of Arts and Letters and a liberal education. 
II. 
Dean Waddick-Degree requirements in the College of Arts and l..etters and career goals of liheral arts students. 

II. 
Dean Burns-The second major in Computer Applications in the College of Arts and l..rtters and the proposed program for administrators and managers. 


• Dean Weigert-The Arts and Letters Preprofessional Program and Arts and Letters combination five-year program with Engineering. 
Dean Sniegowski-The Core CoUI'Se in the College of Arts and Letters. 
Professor Ni~rski-The General Program of Liberal Studies. 
Don Schmid, Owinnan of the College of Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council (ALSAC) will be present with other ALSAC members so that students may talk with them 
following the meeting. 
' 
___'j. 

The Observer Monday, February 9, 1981 -page 4 

New head.football coach Geny Faust recent~y gave a talk at Holy Cross Hall. (photo byjohn Macor) . 
Buy 6 AI urns or apes 
and get an original Peaches 

Record Crate Free! 
-offe-r expires Feb 16, 1981 ­
River City Records 
50970 US 31 North ,-· 3 miles north of campus 2 7 7-4242 open til 1 0 every night 
SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES CONTINUES 
1lllS WEEK WITH 



"BOUND FOR GLORY ' 
starring .,. 


DAVID CARRADINE 
showings: Feb. 9,11,12 at 7:00 and 10:00 pm in the Engineering Auditorium 
Admission $.50 
Sponsored by the Center for Experiential Learning and the Student Government 
Solidarity union plans strike 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) -Inde­pendont trade union officials in southwestern Poland announced plans for a general strike today, and workers throughout the country were asked to stage one-hour stoppages to back demands for inde­pendent farmers' unions. 
Officials of the Solidarity union movement said the strike in Jelenia Gora and five other provinces, including copper-producing Leg­nica, would be called off only if the government sent a delegation to negotiate an agreement on a list of grievances. 
An 11-day strike in another sout­hern province, Bjelsko-Biala, ended Saturday when the government agreed to demands for the dismissal of top provincial officials whom the workers accuse ofcorruption. 
Meanwhile, Polish authorities and press organizations in three other 
Soviet-bloc countries warned that 
the political situation in Poland was 
deteriorating dangerously. 
The leader of Soliarity, Lech Walesa, was expected in Jelenia Gora yesterday to try to help negotiate a settlement, but union of­ficials said they had received no word about the arrival of a govern­ment delegation. 

Workers in Jelenia Gora are demanding that the government dis­miss Trade Union Minister Stanislaw Ciosek, the Communist Party leader there for the last five years. Other demands include the dismissal of a score of local officials and the opening to the public ofa resort and clinic reserved for party members. 
The union's headquarters in Gdansk said that workers were being asked, but not instructed, to stage one-hour strikes today to sup­port the farmers. 
The Polish Supreme Court is scheduled to rule on the legality of independent farmers' unions on Tuesday, the day after what could be a crucial meeting of the Central Committee of te ruling Communist Party. The Communist leadership, under party secretary Stanislaw Kania, has firmly opposed establish­ing free unions for Poland's 3.5 mil­lion private farmers. 
The Warsaw branch of Solidarity has taken up the farmers' cause and has threatend widespread strikes if the Supreme Court rules against them. 
Last night the farmers won the for­mal backing of the Roman Catholic Church when Stefan Cardinal Wys­zynski received a delegate from Rural Solidarity, as the farmers' movement is called. 

Life imprisonment? 
Jury debates Garwood sentence 
A five-officer jury that last week convicted Marine Pfc. Robert Gar­wood of collaborating with the enemy and assaulting a fellow American prisoner will begin hearing evidence today to determine Garwood's sentence. Defense lawyers say they may put Garwood himselfon the stand. 
The 34-year-old Marine faces life in prison for his conviction on the charges. LaVI-yers for Garwood said they will ask the jury to reconsider the collaboration eonviction. If that is not successful, they plan to ask for a lenient sentence. 
The attorneys said they also are considering a motion for a mistrial, contending that the judge acted ··unprofessionally" in discussing the case o•Jtside ofthe courtroom. Vaug­han Taylor, assistant defense coun­sel, said several character witnesses will be called to testify on Gar­wood's behalf. 
The testimony is expected to take about five days, with a sentence ex­pected Friday. Garwood was found guilty Thursday on five counts of collaborating with the enemy. He was accused of serving as an inter­
preter,  collaborator,  and  inter­ 
rogator  for  his  captors  in  North  
Vietnamese prison camps.  
Garwood's  lawyers  never  

disputed the collaboration charge. They argued that the Marine was driven insane by his captors. Fellow prisoners testified during the I2­week trial that Garwood wore the uniform of the communists, was an armed guard over American captives, and tried to convince 
American prisoners to cooperate with the North Vietnamese. 
Garwood was 19 years old when he was captured while driving a jeep near Danang in 1965. Two years ago, he handed a note to a U.N. represent­ative from Finland asking for help in returning to the United States. 

Rise in terrorism poses threatfor U.S. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Federal law enforcement officials say the greatest terrorist threat to this country is posed by t1ve tiny under­ground Puerto Rican independence bands who are becoming more daring and more willing to kill. 
These officials, who asked not to 
be identified, said there are fewer 
than I00 members among the five 
groups, but they are becoming 
increasingly sophisticated and 
operate in concert more often. 

"Thev're damned ncar impossible to per~etrate," one offical said. "Their recruitment is very slow. They are very selective and very careful ofinfiltrators." 
Last month, in the most recent at­tack, the Puerto Rican Popular Army, better known as the Mac­hcteros or machete-wielders, sneaked onto an Air National Guard base in Puerto Rico and blew up nine jets worth S4S million. "It was a highly skilled tactical maneuver, with no evidence they had inside help," one official said. 
The attack came as experts were predicting more and more terrorist attacks in the United States. 
Secretary of State Alexander Haig has called international terrorism the greatest problem in human rights today and has launched a full-· scale review of how to deal with it. The Defense Department has inten­sified its anti-terrorist training, the FBI conducts mock hostage situa­tion exercises every six months in each ofits I S regions, and the Senate 
has set up a terrorism subcommit­tee.

FEBRUARY CORBY CALENDAR 
In addition to the Macheteros, the officials say the groups include the 

M T w TH F s See TERRORISM, page 5 
5  6 7-10 $1 HEINEKEN  3-8#' 7 ~-Cg 2 for 1 cocktails $2.50 pitchers  
9 LIVE ROCK-N-ROLL THE PAGES  10 CANS 2 for $100  1 1  12' 7-10 $1 HEINEKEN  3-8 13 cocktails 2 for 1 pitchers $2.50  14 VALENTINE'S DAY ~s ·6's offo ~\)~\ 2/$100  
fairfield 16 LIVE ROCK-N -ROLL THE PAGES  17 CANS 2 for $100  18  boston 19 7-10 $1 HEINEKEN  3-8 20 cocktails 2 for 1 pitchers $2.50  21  
23 LIVE ROCK-N-ROLL 'THE PAGES  24,CANS 2 for $1oo·  25  st. francis 26 7-10 $1 HEINEKEN  3-8 27 cocktails 2 for 1 pitchers $2.50  dayton 28 noon-1 :30 3 drafts for $100  



---------~ 
The Observer Monday, February 9, 1981 page 5 
Features Powers, Dorn 
Literary Festival set for March 

By MARY FRAN CALLAHAN 
St•nlorCopy Editor 
Plans for tht· Sophomore Literary Festival have been finalized, with a total ofnine authors speaking during the week of March 1-7, according to SLI' Chairman jane Anne Barber. 
Authors appearing arc: Seamus lleaney,John Powers, Edward Dorn, Robert Kdly, Romulus Linney, Her­hc:rt Gold, Margaret Atwood, Sally Fitzgerald and Anthony Hecht. 
Seamus Heaney, a poet from Ireland. who has authored many hooks includingDoor into the Dark, will open the Festival speaking at 7::i0 p.m. on the first of March. Newsweek magazine reviewed Ikaney's most recent hook of 
continuedfrom page 4 
Armed Forces of Popular Resistance or FARP, the Org;mization of Volun­tt·t·rs for the Puerto Rican Revolu­tion or DVRI', tht· Revolutionary 
Commandos of the People or CRP, and tht• Armed Forces for National Liberation of FALN, the oldest, dating to I97l. All five advocat~· in­tkpenddt·nn· and a socialist govt·rn­ment in Puerto Rico. 
The officials said the groups are 
organi:f.l·d in tight, clandestine t·clls 
of four to five people. with I 2 to 16 
pt·oplc In t•ach group. 
A&LDean 

holds 
meeting 
Tht: Dean of the Colkge of Arts 
and Letters at Notre Dame will hold 
a gt·neral met:ting for all interested 
freshman tonight at 7:30 at the Cen­
ter for Continuing Education. 
Topics to he covered include an 
overview of the College, its require­
ments, and the many departments in 
the College. The General Program of 
l.ihcral Studit·s and the Arts and Let­
ters Preprofessional Program arc 
among tht· special programs to he 
discussed. 
poems in their Feb. 2 issue. 
John Powers, a novelist known for his satire on Catholicism, will speak Man:h 2 at 7:30p.m. Some ofthc aut­hor's works include Do Black Patent Leather Shoes Real~y Reflect 
Up?  and  The  Last  Catholic  in  
America.  
Edward  Dorn, a  Colorado-based  

poet whose works include the hook of poetry entitled Gunslinger, will speak March 3 at 7:30p.m. 
Robert Kelly, a poet who at present is teaching at Bard College will speak March 4 at 7:30 p.m. 
Romulus Linney, a playwright who has received extensive recogni­tion for his play The Sorrou•s of Frederick, will speak March c; at 7:30 
p.m. The Feb. 2 issue of Newsweek 
amtinuedfrom page 12 
tually winning. That's just the kind of game it was," said Brown. 
,The two rivals continued neck­and-neck through the final 20 minutes, until the Bruins surged ahead by six with I 0 minutes remaining. Woolridge, who started the second period at center and picked up I I of his 13 points at that position, gave Notre Dame six points in little over a minute to keep the Irish alive. 
The two clubs battled it out at the foul line in the final minutes, with the Bruins converting on seven of eight attempts and the Irish register­ing two-for-five. 
UCLA's win puts the Pac-1 0 team at 14-4 while Notre Dame falls to 16­4. 


also reviewed Linney's most recent work, a novel entitled The jesus Tales. 
Herbert Gold, a San Francisco­based writer of fiction and short stories will speak March 6 at 7:30 
p.m. His work The Fathers has received critical acclaim. 
Canadian poet Margaret Atwood will appear March 7 at 7:30p.m. Ms. Atwood has authored both poetry and novels. Life Before Man, Surfac­ing, and Two Headed Poems com­prise just a few of her numerous works. 
Sally Fitzgerald, a Boston-based writer who edited the letters of literary great Flannery O'Connor, 
See FESTIVAL, page 8 
"Members of one cell may not know the members ofthe other cells in the group, hut there are some per­sons who may he members ofcellsin two different groups," one official said. 
Tht· best shot at thwarting the ter­rorists, the officals said, will come from their increased daring, demonstrated last March when they took hostages at midday in the New York and Chicago presidential cam­

.Terrorism 
paign offices of Jimmy Carter and George Bush, and then escaped a few hours later. 
Meantime, the violenn· has in­creased. In I978, the Macheteros said the killing of a policeman in Puerto Rico was unintentional; in December 1979 the same group claimed responsibility for the deaths of two persons and the wounding of eight others in the ambush ofa Navy bus outside Sanjuan. 
• • .UCLA 
IRISH ITEMS: During the team's dinner Saturday night Brown, read news clippings from 1974 when UCLA's 88-game winning streak was snapped in the ACC. "They don't tell you much at UCLA," said Brown af­ter the game indicating that before last season, he didn't know what it was like to play at Notre Dame "They just told me I had a job to do.". .. The Bruins swept this year's home­and-home series for the first time since the 1972-73 season... Notre Dame was out rebounded 24-1 7 by the Bruins...Bill Varner started the second half at Woolridge's forward position when the 6-9 Mansfield, La., native was moved to the post. . .yesterday's loss was Notre Dame's first at home since the Irish fell to Marquette last season, snapping a 13-game home court winning streak... Paxson and Jackson con­tributed eight and seven points, respectively for the Irish while Dar­ren Daye and Cliff Pruitt pumped in I 2 and I 0 points for the Bruins. . .Notre Dame will play host to Boston University tomorrow at 8 p.m. 
Attention  
SBPABVP and Student Senate Prospective Cardidates  

MANDATORY MEETING  
Wednesday, Feb. 11 I­-6:30pm in the Student Government Offices 2nd Floor La Fortune  


---------------------. 





Editorials 
Monday, February 9, 1981 ~page 6 
P.O. IhxQ 
---~--
Hesburgh expert dOOging question on o-c crime 
Dear Editor, 
This is my fourth year under the Golden Dome. I have not always agreed with Fr. Hesburgh Juring this 'time, but I have respected him and his accomplishments. In his tenure as University president he has made great progress for Notre Dame. In this time he has learned the many techniques of an administrator. Fr. Hesburgh has learned how to avoid answering a question which he did brilliantly in the February 3rd Observer. 
The following question was put to Fr. Hesburgh: "What is the ad­mtntstration doing about off­campus crime?" Any Domer who aspire.s to become a politician should memorize the strategy used by Fr. Hesburgh to avoid the question. I'll agree with him that there is "crime throughout the whole country," but this in no way gives us a clue to what the ad­ministration is doing about our 


off-campus problem. 
There are two points that I would like the administration to respond to. First, because there is crime in the world and especially in the Notre Dame community, should we try to do anything about it? Second, does the ad­ministration believe we have an off-campus crime problem? I may be a lowly student who does not have near the experience of the administration but I believe we do have a problem and we-the stu­dents, the University administra­tion, and the South Bend Community -should do some­thing. 


Doonesbury 

The South Bend Community is also avoiding the issue. The com-· munity has said that the off­campus district has as much lighting and police protection as any other neighborhood in South Bend. But not every neighbor­hood in South Bend has a crime problem. Let me make the follow­ing comparison: If a problem arises with water, sewage, or drainage in a district the com­munity must fix the service. It may cost them extra money and not all in the community will 
benefit equally. A crime problem 
is no different. The proper steps 
sho.uld be taken to solve it. 
Garry Trudeau 
I have a suggestion to help solve our off-campus crime problem: We must make the com­munity and the administration realize we have a problem and that students want something done about it. Once this is done the three groups can come toget­her and find solutions. It is time to stop avoiding the question, too much property and personal in­
jury are at risk. 

Mitchell D. Feikes 


Maids not really a necessity at 
and given out only by the Resi­dent Assistant. The closet should be kept stocked with mops and brooms as well. Each student would be, responsible for his or her own room, which is only proper for an 18 to 21-year-old. Students would also be respon­sible for emptying their trash whenever necessary, either down a trash chute or in a repository located on the floor or perhaps in the basement of the dorm. 
I find it very embarrassing to encounter a maid when I'm in my room. I don't usually want to be bothered and I feel guilty seeing a woman carting out my heavy trash and rinsing out my sink when I'm perfectly able and wil­ling to accomplish such small ministration that we don't need parietals either! Let's take this step in the direction of proving that we are responsible men and women. 
Name Withheld 
Did architects make error in 


new building ? 
Dear Editor, 
I would just like to be the first student to "officially" state that I feel the new chemistry building is crooked. Yes, fellow Domcrs, the 



Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  Managing Editor.......................................... Mark Rust  Features Editor.......................................Molly Woulfe  
The Observer is an  independent newspaper published by the students of the  Editorials Editor..............................Michael Onufrak  Photo Editor ..............................................John Macor  
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily  Senior Copy Editor..................... Mary Fran Callahan  
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported  Executive News Editor.........................TomJackman  Business Manager ..................................Greg Hedges  
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a  News Editor...............................................Pam Degnan  Controller ........................................................)im Rudd  
CJ?ajority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views  News Editor...............................................Lynne Daley  Advertising Manager................................... Mark Ellis  
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and  SMC Executive Editor.......................... Margie Brassil  Circulation Manager............................Beth Hackett  
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is e1_1couraged.  SMC News Editor......................................Mary Leavitt  Production Manager...........................)ohn McGrath  



• 
Monday, February 9, 1981 -page 7 
Features 
FLEETWOOD. Ml-\C :t. I \' E 

Fleeturxxi.Ll11c live 
Warner Bros. 
S
ince tht· addition of Lindsey Buckingham and Stevie 
Nicks to their lineup, Fleetwood Mac has been one of 
the most successful groups in all music. Eventually,like 
almost all otht-r star perf(>rmcrs, they had to release a 
live album. The result is Fleetwood Mac Live, a 
"document" of their recently completed "Tusk Tour." 
The vast majority oflive albums fall into three 
categories: poor substitutes for the artist's most recent 
studio album; poor substitutes for a greatest-hits com­
pilation; or versions ofsongs which are inferior to their 
studio counterparts. This album is none of the above, 
and as a result, it is one of the best of the genre. 
Most live albums seem to have a disproportionate number ofsongs from the artist's last LP. For example, on the 1976 album Wings Over America, one entire side is occupied by songs from the record released im­mediately prior to it, Wings at the Speed ofSound. On Fleetwood Mac Live, only three songs from their last at­hum, Tusk, appear. They arc "Over and Over," "Sara," and "Not That Funny." 
As far as a greatest-hits compilation is concerned...it is 
true that all three singles from Fleetwood Mac ("Over 
My Ilead," "Rhiannon," "Say You Love Me"), three 
singles from Rumours ("Go Your Own Way," 
"Dreams," "Don't Stop"), and one from Tusk ("Sara") 
arc ft•aturcll, plus the often-played non-single release 
"Landslide." Howt·vcr, hesc all arc performed some­
what differently compared to the studio versions. Ob­
vious examples ofthis arc the duct between Christine 
McVit· and Stevie Nicks on "Don't Stop" and some new 
lyrics on"Rhiannon." Also, tlvc ofthe remaining songs 
have ncvt·r heen rccorllt·ll hy this incarnation of Fleet­
wood Mac hdi>rc: "Oh Well," a 1970 Peter Green (then 
a lead guitairist with the original "Mac") composition 
which was re-popularizcll by the Rockets in 1979, on 
which a passable joh is done; "Don't Let Me Down 
Again," an t•arly But·kingham-Nicks collaboration; an 
t'Xt'ellent remake ofthe ob~curc early Beach Boys' song 
"Tht· Farmer's Daughter"; and two brand-new songs, 
Stcvk Nicks'" Fireflies" and Christine McVic's "Ont· 
Mort· Night." 
This 1.1' also rdHIIS my third complaint about live al­
bums. Buckingham-McVic-Nicks-McVie-Fkctwooll 
prove that they don't nt·cd a million dollars' worth of 
production to sound good. For the tlrst time since 197'i 
Fleetwood Mac actually sounds like a unit and not lead 
singers with hackup musicians. They seem to have 
rt·solved all of their personal prohkms (chronicled in 
RumiJurs ), and the result is a more tightly-knit group. 
Tlwre is more l'nthusiasm behind till· music than on 
their I 1)77 tour. which would have made an awful live 
album. As a n·sult, the pl·rli>rmances are stnling. Of 
course. it also helps that tht·y took the I H songs on the 
two records from II dilli:rent vt·nut·s. That is one: way 
to get around the problem ofhum notes( which lead to 
till' drealkd studio overdubs, which make "live" al­
bums no longer live). It is also, probably, the best way to 
allt-viatl' that prohlt-m, because carl'li.tl c:diting can 
make hits and pit-LTS of many 1wrformances sound like: 
ont· whole pcrlimnann·...amt that was the original idea 
hehind liVl' a! hums, to capture a particular concert li>r 
postnity. We'vt· come a long way since then. 
Finally, tht-re are three other nice fcaturt·s about F/eetu•ootl Mac Lir•e. First, this is one of the few recent two-n·cord sets I've scc:n with a fold-open cover. They an· much nicer than the current fad ofsingle-pocket jackets for double-record sets (e.g. The Rir•er by Bruce Springsteen, l.mulrm Callinl/, by the Clash, and Fleet­wood Mac's own Tusk), but they arc also more ex­pensive to manufacture, which is the main reason they arc not seen very often anymore. Second, it contains sleeves which wilt keep Fleetwood Mac trivia buffs busy; one lists the datt·, location, and attendance figures ofevery concert on the "Tusk Tour" (it's a shame Notre Dame could not have been squeezed in there some­where), and the other, in addition to who played what 
instrument(s ), etc., contains a listing ofwhere each song was recorded. And third, the list price is two dol­lars less than Tusk, at a "reasonable" $13.98. 
When everything is added together, Fleetwood Mac Live equals a fun, enjoyable, and, most ofall, good al­bum. And that is something you can't say about very many live LPs these days. 
Tim Neely 


!?Jreet Fever 
Moon Martin Capitol 
M
oon Martin, the Oklahoma rockabilly yokel who ventured to LA. to make good, has amassed a col­lection ofcatchy tunes on his new album, Street Fever, so infectious that it reaches epidemic proportions. 
The odd-looking guitarist-composer has had top 40 hits before. Most memorable was "Rolene," a pained syncopated ballad so briefand concise that it left one hungering for another verse or two. Such is the Moon Martin style -no frills, straight ahead rock oozing with sharp melodic hooks. 
On Street Fever, Martin continues the evolution of rockabilly toward a harder rock beat, borrowing from the distinct rhythms ofNew Wave and combining them with his own coolly lamenting harmonic vocals. The end result is much like Robert Palmer's new rockier motif, only more polished and restrained. (Remember "A Bad Case ofLovin' You," throw out a couple ofguitar tracks, and you get the general idea.) 
"Five Days of Fcvt'r," the opening cut, typifies the standard Martin approach. Immediately thundering in­to a driving rock heat, the song wastt·s no time leaping into a briefguitar introduction ofthe melodic line, followed hy a verse, the chorus, a ten-second whirlwind solo, another verse, and an abrupt dose. Before one can catch his/her breath, the foot-tapping tunc ends in less than three minutes-this is no-nonsense rock'n'roll. In fact, no song is more than four minutes in the Martin philosophy, since anything longer grows repetitive. In this framework, Martin's brief melodies and razor­sharpened guitar riffs arc extremely entertaining and d­fcctivc: sort oflike eatingonly one peanut-you always hunger for more. 
The main strength ofMartin's style lies in his pleasant vocal tone. While the more concise musical stvlc is reminiscent ofGeorge Thorogoo<.tor Tom Petty, Moon lack the largely aton;tl gruffness of thost· performers, concentrating on a higher, smoother quality which har­monizes in a variety ofcolorful ways. The end result is a sort ofgutsier Eaglc:s-California sound with an emphasis on more pronounced rock bt·at -a uniqut· blend indeed. 
Martin's dynamit.· vocal style is best demonstrated in "Bad News," a largdy uninstrumented ballad which dept·nds on Martin's voice to carry the mdody and rhythm. Due to excellent production and shcn talent, one doesn't realize that the increasing dramatic inten­sity oft he song, finally relieved by a short hurst of ecstatic guitar solos, is attributable singularly to Mar­tin's singing style. 
Unfortunately, the high-speed, breathless nature of the album takes its toll. Though each cut has its own dis­tinct merits, the whole record's basic beat approach and sense of urgency wears out the listener after a few minutes. Such is the case with salted peanuts: you like having a few every once in a while, but you never want to have them for a main course.Street Fever's tasty offer­ings are good, but they arc also too filling to be enjoyed at a single sitting. Nevertheless, the album must he recommended to rock connoisseurs looking for an appetizing hors d'oeuvre. 
Scoop Sullivan 

Up and up • • • 
R
ecord prices, like living prices, increase from time to time. Lately. it seems that the plateaus between consumer attacks decrease with ever-increasing frequency. The River, Bruce Springsteen's latest release on Columbia Records, lists ti>r the outrageous sum of $1 'i.9H. Gaucho, Steely Dan's retread ofA}a on MCA Records, goes for $9.98 for a single disk. Capitol brings us Thejazz Singer, Ndl Diamond's withstandable soundtrack of his unbcarahle movie, at S9.9H as well. 
However, the industry chiefs arc now considering another price hike on all records and tapes. Seriously, now, how many of us arc wil­ling to fork out $16.98 for a double album, Sl 0.9H for a single album. and $11.98 for a cassette tape? Even Springstct·n fans would lw hard­pressed to make such an invcstmt·nt. 
What to do, then? Simply put, don't buy records or tapes. Tht· decrease in demand will eventually stop the surge in prices. llnli>r­tunately, this will also put a lot ofmusical groups and ret·ording labels out ofbusiness. Responding to the decrease in sail's, small dubs have once again grown in popularity. Should sales diminish further, these refuges for the poor talanted musician should flourish. These, in the jungle ofprotltcering business, will bt· tht· home of the dt·veloping hand, and at an affordable price. · 
Not a had trade-off, really. So, stay away from those re<.:orll stores. 
Scoop Sullivan 

'llivia Quiz XI 
B
ecause ofa lack ofresponse, I have decided to end the giveaway as­
sociated with these trivia quizzes. It seems senseless to make these 
quizzes intentionally "easy" and then have no one respond to them. 
From now on, they will not be as casy...but at the same time, 1don't 
have to get uptight because nobody wins. 
The answers to the true-false quiz of two weeks ago arc found 
below. Look out for a similar quiz sometime in the future. 
This week's quiz consists ofperformers who hall a brieftaste ofstar­
dom and/or critical acclaim, yet could not sustain the pace and 
became entries on the rock 'n' roll "whatever happened to...?" list. 1 
will give clues to each artist's identity; you name the artist. 
I. This European group caused a stir in 1973. They had a hit album and Top Ten single, then quickly faded into cult-following status. However, they left their mark: their lead guitarist was the tlrst to defeat Eric Clapton in Melody Maker's yearly "Best Guitarist" poll since "Siowhand" first appeared on the British rock scene. 
2. 
Another European group; they relea~cd several albums in the ear­ly seventies with no success. In 1974, they had a Top 20 single from an album with a controversial cover. After that, they faded as quickly as they had appeared. 

3. 
Still another European group, heavily into synthesized music, hall a Top 40 single and a Top 20 album in 1975. They then faded, only to reappear briefly in 1977 on, ofall places, the disco charts. 

4. 
The sales ofhis live album became the yardstick by which all otherlive albums' success is measured. After aless-than-well-received studio followup and a starring role in a horrible movie, his star had faded as quickly as it hall brightened. 

5. 
His debut album in 1973 received good reviews but didn't sell. A followup in 1975 didn't sell, either. The only song ofhis that anyone might remember is his 1973 single, "Avenging Annie." 

6. 
Their first album was quite controversial. Because their music sounded similar to the Bcatlcs' and the band members were not idcn· tified on the album cover, rumor had it that this record was the lkatles in disguise. Supporters oflhis theory even pointed to "dues" in the song lyrics and on the album cover to confirm their theory. llowcvcr, the truth eventually came out: they were a group ofCanadian studio musicians. Since then, their albums have had nowhere near the gold­record success oftheir debut. 

7. 
Alvin Lee was the driving force lwhind this ti>rgottcn group ofthe late sixties and early seventies. They are probably best known li>r 1heir performance at Woodstock. 

8. 
Perhaps the first "supergroup," this group, containing some ofthe most respected rock musicians ofthe late sixties, could keep their su­perstar egos together for only ont· album...but that album hit numht·r one in 1969. 

9. 
This psychedelic-era group was involved in severaluniqul' schemes. The tlrst was to release every song on their tlrst album on 4'i RPM simultaneously. (It didn't work.) The second was to put a song 


on a later album that had to be played at 7H RPM instead ofthe usual~.~ 1/3. (That didn't work, either.) By thl' l'nd ofthe sixties, this group no longer cxistt·d, though scvt-ral rt·unions wert· attemptnl in the early 
Sl'Vt'ntit-S. 
I0. These purveyors of high-energy hubblegum rock had tt·t·nagl' girls in Britain screaming like they did in the heyday of llcatkmania. Their ns. television debut, on Howard Cosell's short-lived "Saturday Night Live," led to a number one single e;trly in 1976, btll nol much af. ter that; they had stopped hitting the charts by early 1 'J7H. 
The answers to thl' last quiz are as li>llows: ( I ) Trut· -Led Zep· pclin had only the one Top Ten single. 
( 2) False -"MacArthur Park" by Richard I farris pret'l'lkd "I ley Jude" by several months. llarris' n·cord was sc:ven minutt·s amllwenty seconds long. 
( 3) False -it was Cold Spring llarhor. 
( 4) False -the Four Seasons did it with "Sherry" and "Big Girls 
Don't Cry." ( 'i) True -the Moments became Ray, Goodman, and Brown. 
( 6) False -its original title was Offering 
(7) True -all those sports heroes mentioned have made records. 
(H) False-the biggest British record on the soul charts was "Another One Bites the Dust" by Queen, whkh peaked at number two in November of 1980. 
9. 
True -"Roll Over Beethoven" was tht· intended second Capitol 45 RPM record to he issued in the U.S. 

10. 
False -Every Good Boy Deser11es Far•Ot4r was the Moodics' seventh album. 


Tim Neely 

~The Obser.Yer_=== 
~«:)cJl~~======================M=on=d=ay=,F=eb=ru=ary==9=,1=98=l==p=a=ge=8
Molarity Michael Molinelli
Campus 

•7, 
10 p.m. -film, "bound for glory" engineering aud., sponsored by center for ex­perimental learning and nd stu­dent government, 50 cents. 

•7 
p.m. -student senate meeting, rm. 124 hayes-healy. 

•7 
p.m. -pledge ceremony, alpha phi omega, rooms 114­11 5 o'shaughnessy. 

•7:30 
p.m. -film, "bondu saved from drowning" annen­berg aud., snite museum of art, Sl. 


.Belles 

continued from page I 2 
either Kim Works or Mary Pat Sit­lington for an easy two points. 
Tracee Hargeaves ran the offense from the top of the key, keeping the hall moving quickly around the zone, always finding the open player, and played an seemingly error-free ballgame. 
However, Saint Mary's hit a dry spell, and the Eagles took advantage of it by scoring seven unanswered points to cut Saint Mary's lead to two, 24-22. 

The Belles called a time-out and then came out in a man-to-man press which resulted in two quick baskets. 
ACROSS 33 Sea plants 49 Spotted 25 South 
Illinois Benedictine then countered 
Waistband 34 Decay 53 Rearend American
The Daily Crossword 
5 Eva or 35 Acclaim fixtures 26 Sisterof broke it successfully with Works 
with a 1-3-1 press. Saint Mary's 
ZsaZsa wildly 55 Iowa city Melpomene 10 Footnote 36 Place 56 Hue 27 Stream
scoring four quick points. 
word 37 Departed 57 Nostrils 28 Cries for 
Gretchen Meyer sparkled here for 
14 River in 38 Inhabitant: 58 Cannon mercy
the Belles with an outstanding 
Poland suff. of cinema 29 Malayan defensive performance. Meyer 
15 Po's land 39 Of bees 59 Shouts at a boats grabbed two rebounds and had 
16 Black: lt. 40 Speak bullfight 30 Lone Rang· 17 Descartes pompously 60 Garbo er's friend 
three valuable steals which kept the 
18 Medicinal 41 Schools 61 Sommer 31 Dutch
Eagles from mounting a sustained 
plant fordelin· painter
rally. 
20 Complicate quents, in DOWN 33 ListingWith three minutes left before the 
22 Diagnostic England 1 Drill 36 European half, Armstrong came off the bench 
procedure 43 Prayer 2 Elysian smelt 
23 Road booth 44 Small place 37 Broiled 
24 Cityon pastry 3 Pre-Easter meat 
after a brief rest, to spark the Belles 
with two assists, a clutch rebound, 
theOka 45 Medieval season 39 Ever
and an impressive breakaway basket 
25 Bright red estate 4 Essay 40 Spoken
to give Saint Mary's a 40-30 halftime 
28 Maxims 46 "Hairy Ape" 5 Express 42 Walkinglead. 
32 Come about playwright childish poles 
In the second half, Saint Mary's 
delight 43 Ukrainian

Friday's Puzzle Solved 6 Coral seaport
constaintly ran the 30-second clock 
island 45 Group of 

down to under ten seconds, not only 
7 Cotton unit eight

showing their tremendous ball­
8 Ancient 46 Bismarck 

control talents, but also shutting 
9 Deli 47 Fasten 

down the Eagles running game. 
offering securely 
10 Shoe part 48 German

The lllinois Benedictine coach 
11 Intense article 12 Historical 49 Eger river, 

called the refert>e a "goof-ball" with 
12:21 left in the game and his team 
periods to Czechs 

down by ten. After being given a 
13 Mythical 50 -acetate 

technical. he praised the referee for 
herb (banana 

that "gutsy call". His adolescant be­
19 Second oil) 

generation 51 Wood fect matchup of two quality teams. 
havior smudged an otherwise per­
relative 52 Thrall of 


2/9/81
©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 
21 Sniff yore
Saint Mary's m.1de it to the finals 
All Rights Reserved 24 Periodical 54 Needlefish
Saturday night by defeating Findlay College, 82-64. Illinois Benedictine mauled Saint Xavier College 94-53. In the consolation game for third place, Findlay defeated Saint Xavier 
¥ANNOUNCING THE '81¥ 

presents
74-42. 
SELECTION OF STUDENT UNION 
A PIZZA PARTY 
ipiRECTOR AND COlvfPTROLLER! 
.. .Festival 

Applications available 
~ .:Won., Feb. 2 in the SU Offices
continuedfrom page 5 
will speak :\1arch 3 at 4 p.m. ! Pulitzer Prize-winning poet An-I 
¥..:Won., Feb. 16 Applications due 
II
thony Hecht wil~ speak March. 7 ~t 41 
5pm

p.m. The Venetzan Vespers IS JUSt one of many books of poetry Hecht has authored. 
for all the ·pizza you can eat 
1f...Sat., Feb. 21 Interviews and
All authors will be in the 
Memorial Library Auditorium. The 
final selections 

WEDNESDAY, FEB, 11 
presentations are open to the public; 
no admission is charged. Receptions 
will follow each reading. 
<Jttf 
Doors
Ms. Barber explained the Fes­

GET INVOLVED! 
Q>ftMD
tival's theme saying, "The idea is the 
open at 
opening of doors. By reading books, 
ORQflN 4:00
GET INTO NDSU! 
people are opening doors because 
RE\TAURANT 
they become more aware of the 


human experience. 
• 



r· 
\ 
•, 

The Observer Monday, February 9, 1981 -page 9 

Notrt· Damt· and Saint Mary's ft·n­cing teams m•t·n.~.·hdmingly ddi:atnl Wisconsin Parkside, Illinois-Chicago Cirde and TriState in the ACC on Saturday. 
The Irish men wen: kd hy Jim Thompson. _Jaime Colky Capo and Tom Lansl(,rd. who all wt·nt ~-0 in tlw toil. 
<>Ia llaustrom finishnl tht· wet·kcnd with four win~ in l'IK'l' compt·tition. In the sabre Sal Muoio and Sal D;lAIIura w'l'nt <;.() while .\likt· :Vtolinelli and Shawl McCarty po~tnl identical record~ of ~-0. 
In the women'~ t(,il Susk \'aldi~t·rri uppnl hn ~ea~on rt·cord to I~--~ with a 6-0 wtTkend r.erfor­mant'l'. Liz Bathon and Denist· llaradt·m t·ach swept three matdll's against no losst·s for Notre Dame. 
Twila Kitdlt'n pacnl tht· Saint 
EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION 
HAS ALWAYS BEEN IMPORTANT. 
Man learned at a very early age that good ideas have to be heard to be effective. So he devised his own method of getting those ideas across. Today, on the job ... or in school, communicatio'n remains a vital part of our world. Which is exactly what we'll be talking about 1n the upcom­ing issue of "Insider"-the free supplement to your col­lege newspaper from Ford. 
We'll tell you how to improve your communication skills 
Look for "Insider"-Ford's continuing series of college ~----=~-~ newspaper supplements. 
Mary's li:nct·rs with a 6·0 weekend while Ann llcndrick tlnished S-1. 
The Notre Dame men's record 
'• SPRINGSTEEN 
remains unblemished at H-0 while both tht· Irish women and Saint 

REFUNDS
Mary's are 7· I on the year. 
are available at the
MEN 
Notre Dame Z.l, Wisconsin-Parksidc 6 
STUDENT UNION
Notre Dame I l), lllinois-Ciiicago 
• Cirdt· H 

TICKET OFFICE
•Notrt· Dame Z..~. Tri State ·t 
\XOMEN Notre Dame 7. \X'isconsin-l'arkside Z. 
9:00am -4:30pm
Notrt· Damt· H. Illinois-Chicago Cirdc I Notre Dame I:~. Tri State ~ 
BRING ID and RECEIPT 
Saint Mary's 6, \'>'isconsin-Parksidc ~ Saint Mary's H, Illinois-Chicago Cirdt· I Saint Mary's I I, Tri State <; 
Win 75-53 

Irish race past Falcons 
By MATT HUFFMAN 
Sports Writer 
Sophomore jacques Eady, junior Paul Doyle, and senior Chuck Aragon were cited a~ the most valuhlc performers by Assistant Track Coach Ed Kelly in last Friday's 
indoor track meet against Bowling 
Green. 
The host Irish defeated the Fal­
cons 7S-S3 for thdr second victory 
in as many home outings. "In the 
past we had only a few individuals 
like Aragon who we could count _ 
on," said Kelly. "Now :we have good 
runners throughout the team and 
we're a hetter team." 
Last weekjoe Piane, the Irish head 
coach, remarked that Notre Dame 
would need a strong performance in 
the sprints and the tldd events to 
defeat Bowling Green. Though not 
dominating, the sprinters, led by 
Eady, and the jumpers, led by Doyle, 
performed wdl t·nough to ddiver 
the victory. 
Eady ran the quarter mile in 49.~ 
seconds to capture first in that 
event. In the 300 Eady won his 
second hlue ribbon with a time of 
~I .4.Jim Christian was second in the 
300 with a time uf 32.~ and third in 
the 60-yard dash running tho:: dis­
tance in 6. S seconds. 
In the other sprint event sop­homore Steve I>ziahis ran the 600-yard dash in I :I 1.4 and placed second to Palcon'sta~ Jeff Brown. 

"Steve proved he is a quality run­ner this pa'lt Friday," commented Kelly. "He is only a second away from qualifying for the NCAA's." 
The Irish were able to compile a l-2·3 sweep in the 60-yard high hurdles. Dave Bernards ran a 7. S for first, J lm McCloughan was second at 
7.7, and Tim Twardzlk ran a 7.8 for third. 
Paul Doyle nabbed the first of his two first place finishes in the long jump with an effort of22-S. Paul jor­gensen at 21-S and Kevin llepingcr at 21·2 placed second and third to complete the Irish sweep. 
Doyle also won the pole vault with a jump of 1 S-6, just thret• inches short of the school record. jorgensen again followed with a an effort of I3·6 
Jorgensen grabbed a first of his own in the triple jump skipping 46­
6. He was followed hy McCauliffc who recorded a mark of4S-1 0. Chris Boenwr hdped the Irish cause with a 6-4 mark in the high jump, good for a third place. 
In the only other Held everit john Kuzan threw the shot 46-S to finish first. Kuzan;s teammate, Prank Ricly, tlnished a close third throwing 46-4. 
The Irish middle and long dis· tancc: corp~ again came: through with an impressive swing winning all events from the half-mile: on up. 
In  the  HHO  Tim  Mac.:auky  won  
with  a  time  of  I :S6.3  and  Rick  
Rogers wa~ third with I :S9.0.  

~REFUNDS AFIER FRI.a FEB.13 
... from writing term papers and doing oral presentations. to communicating with friends, parents and persons of authority. And whether you're looking for an internship or a full-time job, we've got loads of info to help you get there. With tips on how to write a persuasive resume, handle an interview gracefully, use the telephone effectively, and much more. 
Check out the next issue of "Insider," and while you're look­ing, be sure to check out Ford's great new lineup for 1981. 'Including Escort, the new world car that's built in America 
to take on the world. 

FORD 
-·t>Q"'---' 

In the I000-yard run Chuck Aragon remained unbeaten with a time of2: 13.6.Jim Moyar whom Kcl· Iy labeled as a terrific suprise placed third with a time of2:17. 
Aragon was the third double win­ncr for the Irish when he captured the mile run in a time of 4: I S.6. Freshman star Andy Dillon com­pleted the Irish sweep of the dis­tance events winning the two mile in a time of9: 17.2 
In' action Saturday .at the Knights of Columbus meet at tht· Rkhl1cld Coliseum in Ckvcland, Ohio, Notre 
See RACE, page 10 

Jock snaps over 
Valentine ·I 
gift. 

Dear Ann: 
Athletically I'm an All­American. Romanticallv I'm a nerd. I'm in love with a fox. But the <"'llll· 
petition is rough. What'III give her forValentim·'s Day? Nervously Yours, Chicken Hunk 
Dear Chicken: Don't punt. Send hl'r flowt•rs. It's probably t ht· bl'st pia y you t'\'l'l' madl'. And the t'asiest. .Jus! go to your nearest FTD Florist. He has the perle<·t Valentine g-ift. A beautiful bouquet that comes in a special hud vase. hl'll better, you <·an afford it. Rcnl<'mber, when in doubt, rely onthl' mag-ic of flowers. It's th<" only way a chicken ran catch a fox. Good hunting. 

Helping you say it right. 
The FTD Valent me Buo Vase IS usually ava1lable lor less I han $10 00 As an Independent bus1nessrnan. each F.TD Flonst sets hiS own pr1ces Serv1ce charges and delivery rnay be additional •t981 Flonsts' Transworld Delivery. 
II 
I1 
l,~,· 
iJ 
I1 
, 
I. 

-----~-----------------~­
~ -The Observer Monday, February 9, 1981 -page 10
, 
2-game sweep 
Wolverines dump Irish 

€NGIN€€RING &COMPUTER SCI€NC€ MAJORS 

An Irish diver displays his best form in Saturday's meet against Marshall. ND suffered its first defeat ofthe season, butCoach Dennis Stark plans to protest the loss because of.a questionable rule inter­pretation. (photo byjohn Macor) 
By BRIAN BEGLANE 
Sports Writer 

ANN ARBOR -If the players' backs were any closer to the wall, the Notre Dame hockey team would be in the next room. 
That, to paraphrase one player, says it all for the Irish as they look ahead to the final three weeks of Western Collegiate Hockey Associa­tion regular season play. 
Michigan's Wolverines opened the floodgates this weekend and bombarded Notre Dame with 20 goals for a 12-5, 8-4 sweep of the Irish here at the Yost Ice Arena. Notre Dame now has managed just one win in its last nine games with the playoffs looming on the horizon. 
The Irish take a 10-18-2 overall record ( 6-15-1 in the league) into next week's series at Michigan State. Michigan immproved its records to 17-13-0 overall and 11-11-0 in the WCHA. 
The Irish remain in ninth place and five points away from the No. 8 spot, the final qualifying position for post-season play. Notre Dame has never missed the playoffs in nine seasQns as a member of the WCHA. 
But as this campaign -Notre Dame's last as a WCHA team ­winds.down, the playoffs are becom· ing more and more unreachable. 
"I don't know what we did," said' Irish coach Lefty Smith. "We were bad and Michigan wa~ good. Give them credit. They skated all over us Friday night, especially." 
Friday Notre Dame was out of the game before Irish goalie Bob McNamara barely had a chance to work up a sweat. Michigan goals by Roger Bourne, Brad Tippett and Steve Richmond gave the the Wol­verines a 3-0 lead less than five minutes into the first period. Bourne, a senior who grew up in 
. Ann Arbor, went on to collect his first career hat trick. Adam Parsons struck back for the Irish at 12:24 to make the score 3-1, but the Wolves scored four in a row, two of them by Tim Manning, to build a commanding 7-1 advantage early into the second period. Then Nc.tre Dame showed some life, scoring three goals in a row to close the deficit to 7-4.John Higgins collected the first tally at 4:55 of the second and power play goals by Dave Poulin at 6:48 and Bill 

Rothstein at 9:45 brought the Irish back to within three. 
Bourne collected his second goal at 11:39 and Jeff Mars' tally at 17:20 gave Michigan a 9·4 lead after two periods. 
Junior Dan O'Donnell, a native of Palos Heights, Ill., made his debut in goal for the Irish by replacing McNamara in the third period. The Irish could not even pull close, however, and Michigan added insult to injury with two shorthanded goals during the same Irish power play. Bourne, a senior from Ann Ar­bor, collected his hat trick at I 5:40. 
McNamara allowed nine goals and made just 1 5 saves while O'Donnell stopped 10 shots in the final period. Michigan goalie Paul Fricker made 23 saves. 
Saturday, Notre Dame got its first lead of the series thanks to Kirt Bjork's goal at 2:11 of the opening period. After Michigan's Billy Reid evened the score at 3:08, Jeff Brownschidle regained the ad­vantage for the Irish at 17:43. The 2­1 lead was short-lived, however, as Ted Speers evened the score one minute later. 
Tippett and Bjork exchanged goals to start the second period, Bjork's second goal of the game coming at 3:53 to make the score 3­
3. But Steve Richmond, the WCHA's top-scoring defenseman, put the game out of reach with two straight power play goals, at 1 I :59 and 
13:03. ­Rex Bellomy scored the other Notre Dame goal in the third period but it proved meaningless. McNamara went the distance in the 
nets and made 24 saves while Frick­er stopped 20 shots. 
.Race 
continuedfrom page 9 
Dame's two mile relay won a second place finish with a 7:36 time. The Irish were second in the prestigous meet, ironically, to Bowling Green. 
Teams from around the nation and the world were represented but the Irish managed a good finish due to strong performances from all four members: Tim Macauley, Rick Rogers, Jim Moyar and Chuck Aragon. Aragon, running the anchor leg, came from the middle pack, run­ning his leg in 1:50.0. 
GUADALAJARA 
SUMMER 
SCHOOL 
University of Arizona offers more than 40 courses: anthro­pology, art, bilingual educa­tion, folk music and folk dance, history, political sci­ence, sociology, Spanish lan­guage and literature and in­tensive Spanish. Six-week ses­sion. June 29-August 7, 1981. Fully accredited grad­uate and undergraduate pro­gram. Tuition $330. Room and board in Mexican home, $340. EEO/AA 
Write Guadalajara Summer School 
Robert l. Nugent Bldg. 205 University of Arizona Tucson 85721 (602) 626-4729 


IT SAYS HERE TMT 80E\N6 ts l00\QN6 fOil 6000 PmPLE. 
SOtS evan'BODY 
ELSE'. 

(T SA.VS AU:. VOU HAVE ro DO 70 APPLY IS SI6AI UP lOR ACAMPUS 
lA/T'ERVI EW. CR WR11E 01/TEC.tlY '10 BDEIf\6. 
THEY SAY VOtJ wtM1T FINP A 8E11 ER OPf\?R I UNITY WI"Ylt soc.H A WIDe' RANU£' OF lZ>8 
CHOCES ANYWHERE. 
• 
ITALSO SAYS SEAmE IS A GRER' RACe TO \A()RIC. FfSHIN6. MTERSR>fn'S. HIKIN6. SIOIN6.1bJNTNII 
Ct.INtl\IN&. PRESM Alfl.•.. 
I 

IT 6C£S ON "tt> SAY ALL Of 'QJR ~IS AHEAD OF VOU ~0 '11ttG' yOC)'tl fffi.. Rl4iiT AT fiOI'ltE 
~RBCEN6, RQAO ~R NJ. lN THE 
OOSERVER AND I'D~ 
1D ......... . 




.-------~-------~ ---~~.........,..--~ --~ ------~----­
~-------­
--------------------·---------------------··--­
The Observer Monday, February 9, 1981 page 11 
-

Photos b_y John Macor 
r-----------~--~----------------,----·----------------·-----·­
Classifieds 
To all those who remembered my TOO MUCH TOOTS birthday: thank you for your kind HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY!
[
-.~--··~--··-·-····--·-] CALCULUS BOOK, 2ND EDITION, ARTISTS! ARTISTS! ARTISTS! The SAY IT IN SONG!! THE SMC
NOTICES 
H>UNil IN ACC I.O<.KER ROOM. Collegiate Jazz ~·estival needs you to WOMEN'S CHOIR Wll.l. BE Sf.[.. 
thoughts and nice words. I really ap­HAVE A GREAT YEAR!
CALl11722. design T-Shirts, Logos, etc. If you I.ING SINGING VALENTINES ON
·----·--------
predated lt. LOVE, PRES., TEENY, ANI> TENNES·
have and ideas or suggestions please THURSDAY AND fRIDAY IN PROFESSIONAL TYPING. Term Paul "Lefty" Mullaney SEE
LOST: REI.IGIOUS MEDAL IN submit them to Student Activities in l.EMANS HALL. COST IS .50 FOR paper~. theses, etc. Tape transcrip­
ROCKNE MEMORIAl. ON Lafortune or call Sandy Pancoe at VAI.ENTINES (VIA PHONES) TO 
Send sumeont.· a l·arnatiun t(>r
tion. l.ast year's same low prices. All 
6169. You will be rewarded If your JANINE,
THURSDAY, 1/29. SENTIMENTAl. THE ND AND SMC CAMPUSES AND 
Vakntlne's Day! On sale In South
work guaranteed. aardvark 
VAI.UE. CALl HARRY AT 2140. design is chosen!!!!!!!! 12.00 FOR LONG DISTANCE CALLS. IS IT REALlY BIGGER THAN A 
Dining Hall Feb. 9· I 3. Sponsored byautomatic solutions. 289·67~3. 
BREAD BOX ?????? HAVE A HAPPYlliG VARIETY OF VALENTINES TO 
Badin Hall. lOST: BLUE DOWN JACKET AT Needed: Ride to llouston for Spring CHOOSE FROM. FOR MORE INFO, li!THDAY!! 
Quicrc• prat·Ucar tu cspanol? 
SENIOR BAR WEDNESDAY. PLEASE break. Will shart• the "usual". Call CALl MONICA AT 41·5154. THE FAMOUS STANFORD MEN Quierc• hacer nuevas amistades? TODAY
CALLIIARBAT41-471l. Kathy ( 41-4291. Baked Beans ·
Pues, ven a Ia mesa espanola! los GIV!o A SMC THE TIME OF lunes a las 12 en the South Dining 
Happy 21st. I love you. DAY!H!H!!!ffl!!!!!!!!!
I NEED RIDERS E"". ::"0 PENNSYL· 
llall, al ladu derecho a Ia derccha. 
Beastley·l Nus vemus! WEEKEND OF JANUARY 13. Why? Haven't thq· karnt·d to tell VANIA· OHIO BORDER FOR THE 
time yet? Or haw thcy.bccn too busy NO football photographs needed for 
LEAVING FRI. RETURN SUNDAY. 
MARY RICE's 21st birthday was makinMill spla.•hy football book. l'lay·aclion, yesterday, but due to the large The 8os.-. sidelines, fans,the works. Color, b/w. 
CAU TIM at 233·5422. 

demand she will continue to accept Any football era but must be able to SMC'S ARE PEOPI.E, '1"00. WAKE liP PAM MILLER IN SA: 
ONLY FOUR MORE DAYS UNTil kisses thru this evening. GET READY identify. fcc per photo used. Photo AND SMEU. THE COI'FF.E, ND!! 
Available for next school year: 2 five· FOR SALE: 1974 Mercury Cougar. 
YOU MACHO ND MALES t·redil glven In book. Sub· mil con· FRIDAY. WHAT WOULD WE DO IF
bedroom houses, ncar ND, lease, Call2724. 
WE HAD NOTHING TO DO? lat·t sheets or ponfollo to Icarus Q: What do coneheads do at bars In ALL PERSONNEl. PEOI'I.E AGREE:
deposit, 234-2626. 
SHIRLEY
FOR SALE: Nikon F camera with

Press, Box I I. Notre Damt• ( 291· the Yukorn? WE lOVE SMC'S Bf.CA!ISE SMC'S Houses for rent 111·82 school year. ~Omm f/2 lens, 1250. 200mm lens
3200) A: Consume moose quantltle~! ARE PEOPLE, TOO!! 
jana,

Gd. cond., close to campus, secure, for Nlkon, 140. Pete 3895. 
Special thanks to Randall Rentner,
just thought you'd like a personalfurnished. Call 2 33·6779 after6 p.m.
I need a ride to LU./IIloomlngton scoop a self·proclalmed moose·anthrope SEND A SINGING VALENTINE. 
FOR SALE· STANLEY KAPLAN MCAT 

Vakntlnc's weekend. Will share all and all around good guy. AVAII.AIILE MON. AND TflliRS. AT BOOKS. EXCELLENT CONDITION
expenses. Call Claire 7000 Moose Control BOTti I>INING HAI.L~. 1."'~ FOR
Happy Birthday to youAND GOOD PRICE. CAI.I. JANET PHONE CAI.l, 11.~0 IN PERSON,Happy lllnhday to you277·7776 Nups, AND SUNG BY MEMBERS OF Till'HAPPY BIRTHDAY DIANE CHER·

TICKETS I 
Docs Woody get petrified?
NEY NOTRE DAME CHORAl£ 
Happy Birthday to you

I desperately need 4 GA and 2 stu· --------------A 
love, CONGRATlii.ATIONS BETSY .. 
Please! I need 4-6 Dayton·ND GAs.
dent ND-Dayton tk·kets!!' Will pay One ofyour fans RAI.EIGil Wll.l NEV~:R HE THEU>ST: ONE PAIR OF MEN'S GLOVES Call Monica at41·51 54
I U Please call Llza at I HR. 
'--~ERSONALS I 

SAMEON ST. MARY'S SHliTI'LE. BEIGE Mary Ann Cleary, MOM, DAD AND TOMWITII IIROWN SUEDE FACING. IF INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS Patriek Carey,


Desperately need Dayton G. A. and Joe Z. sends his regards. Ron
FOliNI>, PLEASE CAU HOBBY I068. RINGS, 120· S85 OR MORE. WE Happy Birthday! How does it feel
Student Tlx. Good money!!! Please Haynes Is still around. The Sorin LYNNE· THANKS SO MUCH, YOU
to be 22 and have a job?
MAKE HOUSE CALLS. 255·2402.
calll.yn at 2737. 

Lunch Club kind ofdied, but those of SAVED MY l.IFF. WITH THOSE
Love and kisses, us who still attend miss you. KFC was TICKETS.
IIELP!!I HAVE LOST 2 rings last Will pay U for Boston U G.A.'s on Shindu 
around last week, but I didn't get to BETHweek; a 19110 l>allas Jesuit ring, 
Feb. 10. Call Tracey 5206 (SMC) 
see her. I'm off.

outsldt· Morri!IScy···the other, a gold MegK· NEEDED· Volunteers to as.•ist the St. 
Love, 
Joseph County Amerkan Red Cross JH in providing First Aid services during Initial ring with letters R.L.S. PLEASE· Red Draw Two...Uno!! 
BEWARE I>OMERS!!! John (the·these rings have great sentimental T.D. 
REPTII.E) Salgh Is back lurking In the
sporting events, l'On(.·rrts, and "-·om· WIU pay U for Boston U G.A.'s on Terry, I'm back Stop cht•wing ice. shadows, gunning for the title of
value and I will release frozen assets Flanner 6-A · munity programs. MINIMUM traln·for their return. (Besides, I have Feb. I 0. Call Tracey ~206 (SMC) The Bahy UMOC!I No sllmey. spineless
What the hell is ERNDT!? ing required Is current American The Gang Red Cross CPR and Standard first alened local pawn shops) Deal with 
('feature t'V('f deserved It moret!! 
Rob, 36711, I H Morrissey OPEN A DOOR TO THE SOP­VOTE REPTILE FOR liMOC
Aid certification. For more Informa­HOMORE I.ITERARY FESTIVAL NEED rides to DETROIT or ANN AR· 
BOR area Feb. I 3·1 ~. Bonnle-·1336 Panama Red tion, please call Dan at 6931. Be my valentine? SOCIAl. CONCERNS Fli.M SERIES l.osl: Autographed footbaii.Gift for 
littlt· hrother in hospltal.lost day 
FRANKIE.-'TiiA'NK5FORALLYOUR
TliE FULFILLMENT OF THE
NEED RIDE to long Island area for CONTINUES TillS WEEK WITil spring hreak oil Andy 8408 Testing I ,2,3,4 BOliN[) fOR GLORY before break. Pica.-.· call Mike, 1474. 
PROMISE DEPENDS ON FAITH... HElP!I! 
Reward. 
LOVF., IIETH 
--------------------------------~ 

r 
-
Monday, February 9, 1981 -page 12 
With 50-51 win 
UCLA sw-eeps '80-'81 series 
~-
By BETH HUFFMAN Irish raced home for a last prayer. Phelps, who was denied his 200th Sports Editor But it was not Kell) Tripucka, the coaching win at Notre Dame, ballgame's high point man with 18, pointed to his club's inability to fully The scene was set for another last­norJohn Paxson, the miracle,buzzer carry out the game plan as the key to second, miracle win in the ACC, but shooter, that held Notre Dame's fate the loss. The 10-year Irish coach ! unlike most preceeding scripts, in his hands. It was senior Tracy praised his squad for controlling the Notre Dame was not the victor. In­Jackson. game's tempo, but cited the "other stead, the villains, most commcnly ".Tracy's a shooter. Last year he 75-percent of the plan," namely known as the UCLA Bruins, edged made one from the same area against rebounding, poise and foul shots, as
I' 
the Irish 51-50, yesterday. Vill;~nova to win it," said Digger lax. 
I 
Free-throw shooting was the key Phelps, head coach of the Irish, in The Irish, who never led by more 
I in the game, as was the case last year, defense of his 6-6 guard. than two, paced the contest from the when freshman John Paxson On the rebound of Jackson's first jumper poured in by JohnI stepped to the line to sink four free missed jumper, freshman Tom Sluby Paxson. Playing Notre Dame's slow, 
I 
throws in the final five seconds to fouled the Bruins' Rod Foster, a 90-deliberate pace, rather than the insure an 77-74 Irish win. percent free-throw shooter. Foster, Bruins' usual run-and-gun approach, "We just made our free throws seemlingly unmoved by the capacity the Uclans managed to stay on top 
and they didn't," said Larry Brown, crowd, dumped in both shots to put throughout the first half. head coach of the Bruins, "that was his team up by an unreachable three Lead by Mike Saunders' 12 point the key right there." with five seconds remaining. and six rebounds, Brown's squad 
Two of collegte basketball's most "I think Notre Dame definitely has remained ahead of the Irish by as 
talented teams were deadlocked at one of the better crowds in the na­much as 10 points until the closing 48 with :15 seconds remaining tion," said Foster, who finished with minutes ofthe period. when UCLA's Michael Holton went six points. Eight straight points, the final two to the line. Holton, shooting two af­Orlando Woolridge picked up a coming on a patented Paxson ter an Orlando Woolridge foul, John Paxson miss and pumped it in buzzer-shot, pulled the Irish to wit­stepped to the charity stripe and at the buzzer to account for Notre hin two, 26-24, at halftime. faced a mass of screaming townies Dame's final two points. The final to­"At halftime, we had trouble and the like, who had been in­tal of 50 was the lowest by a Notre convincingour kids that we were ac­structed to stand by the screamming Dame team since the Bruins embar­
See UCLA, page 5students in section 108. Just fans, rassed the Irish 57-32 in 1972. mind you, as Brown had wisely elected not to combat Notre Dame's

Belles win Classic 
"sixth man" during the second half. But those fans, jeered by the stu­
Notre Dame women 
dents to their feet, must have done something right as the 6-3 sop­
By ED KONRADY that cut Saint Mary's lead from 11 
overcome Queen Bees
homore missed the bucket on his
Sports Writer points to three. 
first attempt.In the first half, the Belles offense Holton refused to succumb to the With ten seconds left, Anne was impressive as they crisply racket and calmly sank his second By TIM LARKIN center hit a layup at the 2:56 mark Armstrong connected on both ends passed around the Eagles' 1-3-1 zone toss. Sports Writer and pulled the Queen Bees to within of an one-and-one to give the host 
to an open Anne Armstrong who ''I'm a hell of a foul-shooting three points, 50-47, the closest they Belles the Second Annual Roundball 
opened the game with a hot-handed coach," said Brown, who evened his The Notre Dame women's basket-had been since the start ofthe game.Classic championship over the ll­three-for-four performance. When However the Irish were not to be
record against Notre Dame at 2-2 ball team evened its record at 9-9 ' 
linois Benedictine Eagles, 79-74. the defense slacked off to cover denied reaching 500
with the win. "We've been shooting Saturday as they downed the Queen •, · · 
Maureen King, a 5-9 forward from Armstrong, she passed it inside to Substitute Molly Ryan's J·umper
at flags for the last month." Bees ofSaint Ambrose. 
Pittsburgh, Penn., lead Saint Mary's See BELLES, page 8 With the Bruins up by one the Lynda Talley, Saint Ambrose's 6-1 from the free throw line was. goodwith 18 points and 12 rebounds. 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~= and she complered the thre~po~t"Maureen played a solid Maureen play afer being fouled. From there King game. I don't mean it to sound Notre Dame's defense held Saint
Meet underprotest
that we take her for granted, because 1 Ambrose and the Lady Irish had their we don't," said Jerry Dallessio, head ninth win in 18 games. coach for Saint Mary's. "She is very "They kept their composure
Irish swimmers split two
consistant and always plays well." when St. Ambrose came back," said 
Mary Pat Sitlington was seven of Mary DiStanslao, "and the bench did nine from the field for the Belles, and By MICHAEL ORTMAN cause the swimmer had "entered" together, trying to regroup and get a good job." added nine rebounds. The 5-11 cen­!:>ports Writer the water before the other relay on the winning track. His team The Irish were led by Shari Mat­ter from Frankfort, Ill., was six of teams had finished the race (in ac­battled back into the meet and even vey, a 6-1 sophomore, who scored 
nine from the field in beating Findlay A cloud of controversy lingered cordance with Rule 2, Section 5, Ar­managed to take the lead on two oc­22 points and pulled down 12 in Friday's first-round·game. after Notre Dame's swimming team ticle 3(a) of the NCAA swimming casions late in the meet. Trailing 54-rebounds, both game highs. Tricia had its hopes of an undefeated 52 heading into the final event, the
Anne Armstrong, who, as Coach manual). McManus returned to the game mid­
Dallessio said, "probably had her season seemingly vanish this The question Daniel had to 400-yard Freestyle Relay, Notre way through the second half and best all-around game", had 16 weekend. After a 66-46 trouncing of grapple with was exactly what con­Dame needed the seven points for a sparked the Irish offense -finishing points, six rebounds, and a number visiting Toledo on Friday afternoon, stituted "entering" the water. He first place finish to win the meet. 13 points an nine rebounds. 
ofassists. An equally impressive per­the Irish returned to the Rockne Jeanette Clark was the leading formance was put in by point-guard Memorial Pool on Saturday, only to Both teams had saved their best scorer for the Queen Bees with 1 7 
ARTICLE 3 a. A
Tracee Hargreaves, who repeatedly have a controversial official's ruling sprinters for the relay, figuring it points. Lynda Talley finished with 10 broke the Eagles' tough 3-2 zone give Marshall a 61-52 victory. team representa­would go down to the wire. The race points, all in the second half. press in the second half. Her leader­The Irish knew the Marshall meet tive or spectator was truly a classic, as the lead traded Notre Dame got off to a 12-2 lead ship on the court kept the Belles' of­would be the toughest of their first lanes for the first 325 yards. But Mar­by means of good defense and poor fense moving around the perimeter seven this year. Yet the bitterness who enters the shall's all-everything anchorman, shooting by Saint Ambrose. Despite of the Eagles' zone until an opening and disappointment displayed by pool or course in Mik.e Ellison, proved to be too much a .353 shooting percentage from the was found inside. for Notre Dame's three-time most
· the swimmers and the many parents floor, the Irish were able to build up Kim Foley, a 5-8 forward from in attendance made it quite clear the area in which valuable swimmer. The Thundering their lead by dominating the boards. nearby Niles, Mich., dominated the that being beaten by opposingswim­Herd set a new pool record in the They held a 28-1 5 advantage in
said race is beitig
inside. Foley, playing with a bone mers would have been far easier to event (3:13.4) to take the meet. rebounds for the half. spur, was a force to be reckoned accept that being beaten by a ques­conducted before "I want to know how you can call Jenny Klauke hit a jumper from with inside. She t1nished with eight tionabl rule interpretation. that entering the water," said a dis­the right side as time ran out with
all contestants 
for eight from the field. "It was a The dispute arose during the first heartened Komora. "If I reach in the the Irish holding an impressive 30­good team effort. I was pleased with event of the meet, the 400-yard therein have com­water to splash my face during an 16lead. the defense. They have very good Medley Relay. The Irish unit of Pat event, does that mean I entered the In the second halfthe Queen Bees
pleted the race,
shooters, but the way we have been LaPlatney, John Willamowski, Don pool? The rule was designed to keep hit the first three baskets of the half playing man-to-man defense this Casey and Thorn Krutsch, apparent­shall disqualify all people from interfering with swim­and chipped away at the Irish lead 
past week and a half, I wasn't ly finished first with a time of3:41.6, mers that hadn't finished. There's no throughout the remainder of the
of that team's
worried," said Dallessio. "We played six-tenths of a second ahead of Mar­way there was any interference. game. a very aggressive game. However, shall's top team. It seemed the Irish entrants in that Saint Ambrose improved its per­we did lose the tempo ofthe game in had earned the seven team points, "If we hadn't been disqualified, centage on the floor from .300 to
race.

the last few minutes. We seem to do and the Thundering Herd, none. we'd have had the meet clinched .483 and out rebounded Notre that too quickly. Our lead was cut by But in the excitement, one Notre with two events remaining," said Dame 19-12. a few points, but we still were ahead Dame swimmer reached in to con­1 Stark, who will protest the ruling to The inside play of Lynda Talley
NCAA Swim­
by a few baskets. We've got to learn gratulate Krutsch and apparently the NCAA. "Instead, they got a was the key of Saint Ambrose's to not panic so quickly." slipped toward the water. His mingManual cpance to win, and took advantage comeback. However, she wasn't 
Illinois Benedictine was lead by teammates grabbed him before he of it." According to Daniel, if the able to contain Shari Matvey, who Rita Schultz, a 5-7 forward, with 2 5 fell all the way in, but his head and defined it as any part of the body, NCAA panel does not support his kept the Irish offense alive. points. One of the highlights of the shoulders did break the surface. and thus gave Marshall the points in ruling, the final result would be "I was really impressed with the game was the play of Chrystal After a lengthy discussion with the event. reversed, and the event and the play ofMatvey," said DiStanslao. Altman, a 5-2 forward from Chicago. the two coaches and the other After two events, the Irish sudden­meet would go to the Irish. Notre The Lady Irish go on the road this She scored 20 points, but most im­judges, meet official Les Daniel dis­ly found themselves trailing, 15-1. Dame's current 6-1 record would coming Wednesday when they play portantly keyed the 3-2 zone press qualified the Irish in the event be-Coach Dennis Stark called his team become a perfect 7-0. Ball State. · 




