-~----------------­
100 Days -page 3 
VOL. XV, NO. 1.33 
Kehrl discussesplan for GM's do-wnsizing 
Editors note: Howard Kebrl became vice chairman of Gerwral Motors '5n February I. Otl March 5, Kebrl addressed a group of engineering students ell Notre Dame. Obsen,er reporter jeff Cboppin int<>n'lewed Kebrl before bis speech. 

Howard Kehrl 
ByJEFF CHOPPIN 
StuffRt•por/er 
Q: llow lotlg will It be before this muncl ofdownsizing is completed? 
A: What you arc seeing now is the ht·ginning-of the second wave of downsizing, which really was formalized hy the revolt in Iran. We already had started on the downsiz­ing. The j-cars had already been cn­glncert·d. We increased the capacity of those cars -we changed all the plans at that point. 
We'll start to sec this year some of the results ofthat and we'll see more in the next few years. We're bringing more new products on the markets 
this year than any year before in our 
history. How long it will last is not 
rt·ally clear -it all depends on the 
availability of fuel. We guess that by 
about 1985-I 986 we will have com­
pleted this cycle. We hope this 
product line will last until the early 
'90s. 
On the other hand, if fuel goes up to a world price of S3 a gallon, and the mood of the country continues in the direction that it's going ­towards smaller cars and a more sterile lifestyle -we will be redoing a lot of cars within the next six or seven years. When consumer demand stabilizes, we'll stabilize. 
The world has surely changed. We're reacting, trying to lead what they (the consumers) are thinking of. They arc changing fast. We're doing our damndest to catch up with them, but right now they're ahead of us. 
When Iran happened, that pro·:okcd a change in people's at­titudes. Before Iran, people would say there was no energy problem, that it was just created by the oil companies. That was the attitude. Now they say there is a serious problem. 

Q: Wbat is the progress oftbe diesel? 
See KEHRL, page 4 

CentralAmerican itnages changing 
liditor's note: The following article is the second part ofjeffChoppin's series on the Central America collo­quium dealing with politics and justice. 
ByjeffChoppin 
Senior StuffReporter 
Denis Goulet, O'Neill Professor, dis<.·ussed the shift in the United States' imagt·s of Central America during the last 40 to 50 years. The policy makers first shaped policy according to stereotyped images. Tht· sten·otype t·haracterized Latin America as an undcrdevt'lopcd, retrograde extension of the Iberian t•t·ninsula, tht·rc to bt· plundered. It was ncvt·r a question of conscience or imperialism. hut simply America's t•quivalcnt of the "white man's bur­dt·n." 
The nt·xt image of Central Aml'fica dlaractcrizcd its elite as politically infantile, needing "an cn­lightcnt·d, gt·nt·rous and altruistic big brotht·r to knd a hand." The countries wt·n· considered nominal­ly indq)l'ndt·nt and politkally im­
mature.  
During  World  War  II,  tht·  
nt·ccssity  of  kc:t·ping  key  South  
Amcrkan  nations neutral  brought  

about tht· "(iood Neighbor Policy." After World War II, the U.S. became the "undisputt·d leaders of the free world." Tht·y had 20-.B Latin American countries considered to be allies. Tht· li.S. govcrnmt·nt took the t:ountrks" for granted." 
The 20 years following World War II wert· a 20th century exten­sion of tht· Monroe Dourine. The IJ.S. pn·at·hed democracy and non­Involvement in European affairs for all tht· Central American nations while telling the Europeans to keep out. 

The most recent image ofCentral America in U.S. foreign policy is best exemplified by Mexico and Brazil. They are seen as important non­aligned countries to be dealt with on 
a  recicprocal  basis.  Smaller  
countries  are  now  also  trying  to  
receive that treatment.  



Goulet also discussed the three paradigms which trace world super­iority from World War II to the present. The first shows the ll.S. as the undisputed nuclear leader. The second is a bi-polar theory, emphasizing the prcsccncc of two superpowers. The third, and present paradigm, is the pluri-polar system which is an expansion in the number of powerful countries from the hi­polar paradigm. 
Michad Frances, the Director for the Institute oflntt·rnational Studies, commented on the Reagan policy towards Central America. 
Frances says that Reagan is going to "sec everything in Cold War terms." Countries will receive assis­tance if they claim they arc fighting communists, according to Frances. 
Reagan is attempting to sell the policy by camouflaging it in good person/bad person terms. The results are almost absurd comments coming from the administration. Two such instances arc Haig's com­ments about the murdered nuns in 
See COLLOQUIUM, page 4 
MONDAY, APRIL 27, 1981 

Fully garbedfor battle, these studentsparade toward the mudpitsfor the AnnualAn Tostal Charlot race last Saturday. (photo by Rudy Perez) 
Women in military 
Lecture presents problems 
By PAUL MCGINN 
News Stuff 
Dr. Lois Defleur, visiting profes­sor at the University of Chicago, presented a lecture entitled Women in the Military: Issues and Problems" to a group gathered in Galvin Life Science Center last Thursday eve­ning. 
"Most people have strong about women in the military, but they do not have a lot of facts,"Dr. DeFleur stated. 
With regards to the historical im­plications of women in the military, Dr. DeFleur pointed out that In this society, we have a concept of the citizen-soldier." 
Essentially, the citizen, by the very fact that he receives the benefits of a country is responsible to protect that nation. Since only men were until recently considered citizens, it follows that women, who have only recently gained citizen­ship rights, are only now potential soldier candidates. 
Even as women arc now members of the military, their roles arc limited, their numbers arc few, and their status is many times separate than their male counterparts. 
With regards to the present state of affairs within the armed forces, Defleur stated, When you look at what has happened to military or­ganization, you find that fewer and fewer jobs involve direct combat." 
To De Fleur, the major needs ofthe armed forces lie in qualified tech­nicians, computer specialists, electricians, and personnel managers. 
Basically, the military is becoming more like other bureaucratically or­ganized groups. 
More skills that women have will probably be more applicable be­cause women are obtaining a wider range ofskills." 
Faced with the growing need for qualified personnel, the armed forces will have to alter their I 0 per­cent quota for female soldiers or they're going to be in real trouble." 
Traditionally, women have been considered physiologically inferior to men with regards to upper body strength. While DeFleur agrees with this basic fact, she believes that military considerations of the menstrual cycle and pregnancy trauma" are greatly over­emphasized. 
Other proponents ofa male army argue that men perform much better than women under stressful condi­tions such as battle, survival and im­prisonment. Though studies have indicated that women do indeed fail to perform as well as men on first tri­als, women quickly gain confidence during succeeding training studies. Dr. DeFleur maintains that the ability to handle stress may not be a.~ much a physiological phenomenon as a product of cultural condition­ing. 
Some argue that the training, recruiting and care of women are less cost effective than the similar services for males. Studies have shown that though medical atten­tion for women is twice that of men, the overall yearly costs for women arc SH50.00 less than the annual costs for men. 
Overall, efficiency ratings have proven that in most non-field ta.~ks, men and women perform about equally. 
Even though the military docs of­fer some of the finest benefits for women, many are disillusioned and fail to re-enlist. Truly, the crux ofthe women's argument lies in the belief that so much more can and should be done to provide women with greater equality in the United States Armed Forces. 



Sociology Program provides experience 
ByJIM McCLURE 
News Stuff 
A six credit, two semester sociology internship st·minar is bcin~o~ offered for I 5-20 sociology majors by Professor Robert Vasoli. 
Participants will get fidd experience in such diverse area~ ao; criminal justice, corrections, mental health, social work and urban affairs. 
Students should have access to a car since the internships art· located in downtown South Bend, Elkhart County and Berrien County in Michigan. 
At lea~t six hours of work per week is required in the field, and a term paper is required ofeach intern. 
Since the course is chcckmarked and requires spt·cial authorization, anyone imerested in the seminar should obtain an internship seminar form from the Department of Sociology and Anthropology, which must be signed by Professor Va~oli in order to obtain the check­marked card. 
Fieldwork of this kind is quite valuable to those going on to future employment or professional and graduate school. "You just can't beat some experience," said Vasoli, "I've had students interview for law school, and most ofthe interview concerned thdr internship." 
Professor Vasoli started the program five years ago on an ex­perimental ba~is with two students. 

News Brie,b 
Monday, April27, 1981 -page 2 

c===~========~====================================~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Dallas' StarJitn Davis, the gravelly voiced actor who played a lifetime of starring and supporting roles before hitting the jackpot as the tough-as-nails Jock Ewing on the "Dallas" television series, died in his sleep yesterday, a spokesman for the series said. Davis, who was in his 70s, died at his Northridge home where he had been recovering from abdominal surgery. His wife of 36 years, Blanche, was at his side, the spokesman said. The 6-foot-3-inch Davis, who appeared in more than I 50 films and 300 TV shows, looked as if he was born to play a Texas oil baron. He was known as "The Man" on "Dallas." In a series filled with characters everyone loves to hate, he was the toughest. "I think Jock had his day," he said in a 1979 inter­view, comparing the tough-but-not-as-nasty Ewing father with his son, the villainous J.R. (played by Larry Hagman). "He was young, tough, ruthless. I think).R. may be doing some ofthe thingsJock did when he was younger. "He's a diamond in the rough who thinks young. He has compassion for people, but on the other hand he can be ruthless ifhe feels his legs are being chopped off." -AP 
Members ofCongress returning to Washington after a two-week recess face tough decisions on President Reagan's proposals to revitalize the economy. Many of the lawmakers spent part ofthe recess talking with constituents to see how they feel about Reagan's plans for reducing taxes and the growth offederal spending. Several members received personal calls from the president, seeking support. The House and Senate will get another reminder of the im­portance Reagan attaches to his economic plan when he addresses a joint session of Congress Tuesday night. Republicans on the Senate Budget Committee will try to reach a compromise among themselves today that would reverse an earlier setback on the president's budget. That compromise would be aimed at reducing the federal deficit un­der the S45 billion level that the committee anticipates for 1984. Three conservative Republicans who complained that the projected 1984 deficit was too large joined with committee Democrats earlier this month to defeat a spending plan similar to Reagan's proposal. ­
AP 

Freezing rain on the Rivieraandadustingofsnow elsewhere limited the turnout Sunday in the first round ofthe French presidential election that was expected to produce a runoff between President Valery Giscard d'Estaing and his nearest rival. Giscard d'Estaing, running for a second seven-year term, was challenged by nine other candidates. The stiffest opposition came from Socialist Francois Mitterrand, making his third bid for the presidency, and Gaul­list leaderJacques Chirac, mayor of Paris and a former premier under Giscard d'Estaing. The other major candidate was Communist Party chief Georges Marchais. The large number of candidates apparently insured that none would win an absolute majority, forcing a runoff May 10 between the two top vote-getters. Polls opened at 8 am.. At 5 p.m., an hour before they closed, about 66 percent ofthe more than 36 million registered voters had cast their ballots, the Interior Ministry reported. Observers blamed the weather. More than 71 percent had voted by the same time in the 1974 election. -AP 
The Erie County attorneysays he will decide today whether to present evidence to a grand jury soon in the slayings of seven Buffalo area black men, including the so-called ".22-caliber kil­lings," the Buffalo News said Sunday. Investigators worked all weekend to compare evidence in the deaths to bullets and weapons found at the Buffalo home and family hunting lodge of a white Army private, identified asJoseph GT. Christopher, and Erie County District Attorney Edward Cosgrove told the Buffalo Sunday Courier-Express he expected a full report Monday. Buffalo police went to Georgia last week in an unsuccessful effort to interview the soldier, who was in custody on charges oftrying to stab a black soldier at Fort Benning, the newspapers said. New York City detectives also went to Georgia to look into "any possible connection" to four fatal stabbings in their city. -AP 
Hundreds of rioters battled hundreds of police in Belfast and London yesterday in support ofjailed IRA guerrilla Bobby Sands, reported at a skeletal 98 pounds in the 57th day of a hunger strike. Prison officials denied widespread rumors he had died. About 500 Sands' supporters demonstrated at a subway station and near Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's I 0 Downing Street residence in London. Thirty-eight people were arrested, and three ambulances carrit;d away an undetermined number of injured. In Belfast, rioters pitched firebombs at a bus depot in the Roman Catholic Ardoyne dis­trict ofBelfast, then hundreds ofyouths broke away from some 6,000 people attending a rally for Sands and hurled bricks, stones and lead pipes at a fortified police base. -AP 
Partly sunny and watmer today with a slight chance ofthundershowers. Highs in the low to mid 70s. Fair and mild tonight. Lows in the low to mid 50s. Mostly sunny and warm tomor­row Highs in the upper 70s. -AP 
• 
The Naked Truth 


Instead of trying to draw out a single thought for an entire page, as I usually do, I decided to ramble on about a few pressing matters and some other thoughts. 
Reagan and commencement: Indications are that President Reagan is still planning to deliver a com­
some students. While no one at either the White House or in the Administration could confirm that he definite­ly will be here, Mr. Reagan's speechwriters are repor­tedly working busily on the speech. No clues as to its content, but he will be pushing hard for his economic program for the next few weeks, so some consciousness raising ofCatholic Middle America is always possible. 
Student Protestors: The Students Concerned about Commencement (SCC) are out in full force having dis­tributed 3,000 "position papers" stating the reasons for their objection to Reagan's appearance and his receipt ofan honocary degree. It's a little dry, but worth poring over ifyou have any interest at all. Essentially, the group feels that the Reagan Administration's policies regard­ing El Salvador, human rights, and domestic social programs are contrary to the Catholic "moral, ethical and spiritual truths" that the University purports to up­hold. There will be a rally on Wednesday at 4 p.m. in Wolfe and the actors did a marvelous job, shaping Equus into the finest performance I've seen on campus in two years. Those who were offended by the nudity probably didn't understand the play and should have walked out earlier. 


Let's be Tacdess: A female student called Security ·one recent evening to complain about.a man who she encountered while walking across campus at ap­proximately I 0 p.m. She says that just before she hung up on him, the security officer she spoke with told her that ifshe didn't walk outside at night she wouldn't have to worry about men prowling around campus. She was not too pleased with the officers comments, but doesn't want to pursue the matter any further. Assistant Security Director Rex Rakow was no more pleased and 

front of the South Dining unaware of any problems Hall for students and faculty but assures me that such concerned about the 
comments are certainly not address. 
approved of by the depart­The sec, however, had 
ment. Director Glenn Terry some trouble getting their gave a similar response and materials printed up at one 
added that if the girl was ofthe many campus printing unwilling to come forward centers. A student had 
there was nothing he could dropped off the position do. And people wonder why paper at the Copy Center in 
students don't respect the Administration Building Security. last Thursday morning and 
Chautauqua: Our new was told that her 5,000 coffeehouse seems to be a copies would be ready that 
success. By now everyone afternoon. The student was 
around campus knows it ac­interrupted during a class 
tually exists and the crowd later that day and informed attendance has been re­
that it would now take at spectable. Vice President of least a week -maybe more Student Affairs Fr. John Van -to print the papers. Not Wolvear said that while 
wanting to risk taking it to another campus print shop, the students went to a shop downtown with an order for 3,000 copies (they couldn't afford 5,000 copies.) One day and S240 later, the papers were ready for dis­tribution. 
I find it refreshing that the Copy Center will go to the trouble offinding a student in her class and inform her ofa sudden onrush ofprinting jobs. Perhaps they were preparing commencement programs. 
• Campus in the Nude: There have been a few com­plaints about "full frontal nudity" during student direc­tor Brian Wolfe's incredible presentation ofEquus two weeks ago. Inspired by an actual crime, the play is a fabrication of the inner torments ofa stable boy which drive him to blind six horses. The story is the interac­tion between the boy and his psychiatrist, as the psyc­hiatrist tries to discover what spurred the attack and the re-visualization ofthe events leading up to the act. The final nude scene was so tastefully done and so natural to the progression ofthe story, there was no surprise at all. By the end of the first act, you knew it was coming. 

The_Ohser.xer 
Design Editor........... Monica "Island Girl" Gugle Design Assistants ..................... Kim Parent 
Patty "Chariot Lady" HuUey Typesetter ............................ Stephen Brown News Editor ................... Mary Agnes Carey Copy Editor................................... KeUi Flint Sports Copy Editor ............... Gary Grassey Typist ........................................... Mike Monk Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley SMC Day Editor....................... Cece Baliles Ad Design ..................... Fran & Mary & Co. Photographer ............................ Rudy Perez Guest Appearances ....................... The ENE New Photographers, Old Photographers 01' Blue Eyes Legal Briefs Assorted OV!Ps Death, Disease and Pestilence 
Chautauqua has been a "disaster" financially, he has been pleased with student response. He hopes that a realistic ticket pricing policy will help the financial picture so the Student Union won't have to subsidize operations next year. Further development ofChautau­qua (i.e., food and drink, tables and chairs, acoustic im­provements) will only happen when A) the administration is convinced that students will support Chautauqua in the long term and B) when they find a permanent resting spot for the Placement Bureau. Fr. Van also has some other upcoming plans for social space development: an impressive renovation ofSenior Bar (which is a great idea) and using Stepan Center as a mini-concert arena on a consistent basis (which isn't nearly as good an idea). Look for Fr. Van at theJump in the Saddle Band performances May I & 2. 
Cartoonists Strike: For those who are mystified at last week's cartoonist's strike, first read the accompany­ing articles on the Features pages oflast week's papers, not justMolarity. For those who still don't understand, it was just silliness on the part of the Obseroer staff. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers

====Ihe=O~ea~==== 
Editor-in-Chief. .....john McGrath SMC Executive Editor ................ .... Mary Agnes Carey
Box Q, Notre Dame, iN 46556 
,Wanaging Editor. .......Tom jackman SMC News Editor ........................ .......Cathy Domanico
The Observer is an independent newspaper published b:-the student-. of the 
Executit•e Neu•s Editor ... ........Lynne Daley Photo Editor........................... . ..................John Macor 
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not nece-.sanh 
NeU's Editor .. . ................Tim Vercdloni reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news 1s rerorred .Veu•s Editor..... .......................john Higgins Business Manager ....................................Rich Coppola as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the orinion of a Senior Copy Editor .. ..... Mary Fran Callahan Contmller........................................................joe Mul.flur 
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the v1ew-. Sports Editor. ............Michael Ortman Adt•ertising Manager .....................................Mark Ellis of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the communitv, and Features Editor. .............Rick Hermida Prod11ction Manager... .. .. Ryan Ver Berkmoes Circulation Manager .......................Tom MacLennan
the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 
First 100 days 


Reagans change Washington 

WASHINGTON (AP) -They 
brought back liquor, white tie, the 
herald trumpeters, and a full honor 
guard. 
They stationed a uniformed 
Marine guard at the entrance to the 
West Wing lobby and made state 
dinners even more exclusive. 
They raised 1800,000 in private 
contributions to restore and 
redecorate the White House. 
And they disarmed official Wash­
ington with their affability and joy of 
socializing. 
After almost 100 days in office, President Reagan and his wife Nancy may not yet be full-Hedged Was­hingtonians, but they have placed their mark on the White House and the city they now call home. 
Washington, Reagan-style, has gone formal. limousines and desig­ner gowns are in demand. "What I sec is a president who, even before the events of the last few weeks (since he was shot in an assassina­tion attempt), has disarmed the populace with his own good humor and statcmanshlp and restored, to a large degree, a lot of the pride people wanted to feel in the country," said Sheila Patton, press secretary to the first lady. 
George Will, a conservative columnist who was among the first to host a dinner for the Reagans when they arrived in town just before the Jan. 20 inauguration, said the Reagan style was "like rain on pan·hcd ground after the Carter years." 
He said the president, who has visltt:d Capitol Hill se.veral times al­ready and wlll appt·ar again Tuesday night, understands the importance of establishing personal relations with members of Congress and the: host ofofficial Washington. 
Will said Reagan's personal af. fability makes it t:asier for him to govern. "He's asking people to do something no one rt·ally wants to do, which is aiiO<:ate deprivations." 
Mrs. Reagan has her own style, too. 
She works out of the second floor living quarters, whereas Rosalynn Carter maintained an office in the East Wing, where the first lady's staff Is located. Like ht:r husband, who meets dally with his top three ad­visers, Mrs. Reagan meets each day with her chiefofstaff, Peter McCoy. 
While the president has enjoyed a traditional honeymoon, Mrs. Reagan came Into the White House on a cloud of controversy that is just beginning to abate. She is said now to have reconciled herselfto the fact 
that first ladies are always criticized 
and her staff has been reading about 
her predecessors to prove their 
point. 
The controversy occurred before 
the Inauguration when Mrs. Reagan 
was reported to have hoped the Car­
ters would move out early so she 
could redecorate. She also was 
reported to have spent several 
thousand dollars on her inaugural 
wardrobe, which included a new 
mink coat and several designer 
gowns. 
"We got a lot of heat on her 
clothes," McCoy said recently. He 
said most of the mail about the 
Reagans' restoration of the White 
House was favorable, but that 
project also attracted controversy 
when the White House initially 
refused to reveal the list of con­
tributors. 
The redecoration of the living 
quarters now is about half com­
pleted, McCoy said. The state floor, 
where the Reagans entertain official 
visitors, is next. 
As first lady, Mrs. Reagan has been slow to delve into her pet projects: foster grandparents and drug abuse. Mrs. Patton said that is.__because her staffstlll is researching the best ways for her to get involved. Mrs. Reagan, who brought a lot of furniture from their California home, has said she wanted to unpack first. 
"Mrs. Reagan's role so far can be viewed as principally that of a wife and helpmate who has very definite interests of her own," said Mrs. Pat­ton. "I think she's made quite a bit of progress in finding her niche." 
The first lady does more public speaking now, but still rarely talks about substantive issues. Mrs. Car­ter, on the other hand, was one of her husband's most outspoken defenders. 
As a city that has always placed im­portance on parties, Washington became frustrated during the Carter years over the reluctance of the president and many high administra­tjon officials to spend a lot of time socializing. 
The Reagans, who seem to love parties, have left the White House frequently to attend dinners and parties and the theater. 
They also have given their own parties, studded with Hollywood stars such as Frank Sinatra, Charlton Heston and Jimmy Stewart. And Reagan delighted the diplomatic community shortly after the in­auguration by holding a whitetie 

lt 
** 
SMC 8: liD SIJ:NIOll :NIGHT OUT!
*
* 
Jt Direct from Hawaii and Las Vegas
* 
Jt in their grand homecoming to Mlchlana • · · 



iFA.J'T 
~F/t£0/JY
..
!&The Playboys!
..
Jt "a clas• act of •lnglft9, comedyJt -d dance for tit• ladles" 
: s•RIOB BICHO'S; 
:Thursday May 'I and : Thursday May 14 
!f»•rdner's Saloon • Downtown South Bend Limited advance tickets on sale now at River City Records 
t.atured on: ** 
• Phil Donallve * 

509'10 U.S. 31 Borth 
e ABC 20/20 ~ 

Admission $8.00 Call 2'1'1-4242 
• Today Show. * 

for further information 
• Time Magazme * 

The hottest male go-go • Playboy Magazine 
show In the nation'**********************'* 

The Observer Monday, April27, 1981 -page 3 
ROCCOS '  
Imen's and women's hairstyling at comfortable prices 531 N. Michigan 233-4957  


reception for ambassadors. Repor­ters who cover such events have been ordered to dress in the ap­propriate style. 
The number of guests invited to state dinner has been reduced from well over I00 to 96 so that the tables are not jammed with plates, glasses and silverware, McCoy said. In addi­tion, guests'who are not married will not be invited to bring escorts. 
Probably the hardest thing for the Reagans to get accustomed to was the lack of privacy that seems to ac­company the presidency. 
That usually results in a presiden­tial attempt to outwit reporters by leaving the White House without them. Reagan hasn't tried that yet, but his wife has. She attended three luncheons recently and ordered her pr~ss secretary not to reveal where they were. 
SMC raises $48,910 in 
r':'~~=-=-..:~.::-:-~iliiiiiaiiiiiiiii•;;~----...,
1Monday. Wed. 
I 
CORBY
Pool T 
BIRTHDAY PARTY

S5 entry Tuesday 1• I 
48-man NFL I SpecialEight Ball 

DRAFT I to be 1 game SPECIAL Iannounced 
elimination 

I I I 
I Tourney days: Mon., Tues., Fri., Sat.


L-------•-----------------­
----~.._.l_ ~
-.,_.,_,.._.._____________ 
DORM LIFE CRAMPING YOUR STYLE? 


---~-----·--­
~~-------­
The Observer Monday, April27, 1981-page 4 



monday night film series 
Monday, April 27 
The American Friend (Germany/USA) 1977 Win Wender's international thriller marks the meeting of the New German Cinema with the Hollywood genre film. With Bruno Ganz, Dennis Hopper, Lisa Kruger, Nicholas Ray and Samuel Fuller. 

THE SNITE MUSEUM Of ART 7:30pm: admi~sion 5.1.00 sponsored byNO -SMC COMMUNiCATION &THEATRE._,. 


ATTENTION ALL GRADUATING STUDENTS 
Measurements will be taken for 



Caps and Gowns 
Monday ApriI 27 
Tuesday April 28 Between 9:00 -4:00 at the 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
AIR FORCE ALWAYS NEEDS MORE LEADERS. 
We're looking for pilots ...navigators ... missile· men ...engineers ...math majors ...people manag· ers ...doctors ...scientists ...journalists ...and more. And the Air Force ROTC program is a great way to get into a job like one of these which can help you improve your leader· ship ability and your professional competence. 
As a commissioned officer in the Air Force, you can be proud of the role you play in your community and the contribution you make to your country's security. Y<:>U can kno~ _that you're doing a job of importance, a job wtth responstbthty. 
The Air Force ROTC program offers a way to help you achieve these goals. As an AFROTC cadet, you'llleam about leadership, management, and more. You'llleam about ben~· fits of being an officer later on, like an excellent salary, medt· cal and dental care, housing and food allowances, and 30 days of paid vacation each year. You'll discover a whole new world open to you in the Air Force. And you can get there through AFROTC. 
Look into it right away. You'll be glad you did. 
For more info. call (apt. Gottrich 283-6635 
0 
ROTC 
• • • Kehrl 
continued from page 1 
A: I think the diesel is just really getting into the development of the automotive industry, in a major way. Its fuel economy is already outstand­ing. They have a little noise, a little smoke, and a small power problem,too. Maybe it will always have those problems, but I think the diesel will be a really big pan ofour future. We have programs right now to have diesels ofall sizes. We'll have them down to four or three cylin­ders. I don't know when, but they're coming. 
Q: Will there be less emmissions regulations under Reagan's ad­ministration? 
A: They're telling us there will be. They ran on a ticket of less regula­tion. There are something like 1400 different items that we have to com­ply with. We're not trying to take away all of them -the point is that some of them are pretty wasteful. The Clean Air Act will open this spring; that will be a rather big public policy issue. Our psition is that we recognize a need for good emmission controls. 
We think the government should get off our back as far as what we do in our engineering and manufactur­ing processes. We are spending a lot of our customer's money. They ought to take a long, hard look at the regulations. 
Q: Do youJavor the restriction of ofjapanese cars? 
Gateway to a great way of life. 


juniors 

Senior Bahaiiias Trip 
sign--ups will continue until Friday, May 1 
at ND/SMC Student Activities Offices Trip will be limited to 300 people. 

Absolutely no reservations can be taken in the Fall since final room list must be sent to the hotel in May. Please bring $50 non-refundable deposits. 
A: We favor some kind of agree­ment between the governments. There should not be a regulation; not some kind of a law. The agree­ment should be on a reasonably tem­porary basis, so that it doesn't get hardened into the law, and so that it doesn't get the reactions that nor­mally come from a trade situation. The temporary nature would be designed to allow United States man­facturers time to react. 
The great increase in fuel price that we've had really made the kind ofcars that people want change sub­stantially. You can do any one car line in two or three years; in our case we have six. We can only do one or two at a time. 
Q: Do you feel that Reagan's economic policies will help your business or do you feel that they will result in credit restrictions? 
A: We had the credit restrictions way back in the Carter Administra­tion. I've talked about the energy crisis affecting our business, the in· flation and the economy are affect-



c:olloquium 
continuedfrom page 1 

El Salvador running a road block and 
U.S. ambassador to the UN Jeanne 
Kirpatrick's comparing the Pol Pot in Cambodia to El Salvador. 
ing our business even more, so we really do believe that the program the president is on should correct that; we think it is the right thing to do. Before, they tried controlling in· flation by the monetary method, without any real reduction in government spending. I don't think it had very much chance ofworking. 
With the inflationary pressure being generated by the governe­ment si>ending so much greater than could be contained by the monetary method, it was an unreasonable course. It got us, but it didn't seem to get a lot of other parts of the economy; it doesn't seem to make a lot of sense to me. I think we're looking forward to a definite im­provement in our business. What the new administration is trying to do is in th«;, right direction from the fiscal management viewpoint. We look foward to a general increase in the business climate. We're on a down side now and we know for damn sure that it has to come back u. 
Frances stated that he believes it is possible to prop up a rightist govern· ment. He said that Somoza's regime might still be in power in Nicaraqua had President Caner's human rights po1icy not cut out its support. 
The effects of Reagan's policy will be to keep the right in power. It will also discredit the U.S. and possibly speed up a multi-polar world that would inherently be less stable than the present system, according to Frances. 
Denisard Alves, a Fulbright Profes­sor of Economics, traced the politi­cal and economic history of the "liberal dictatorships." By the begin­
•. ning ofthe 20th century, the liberals had become the most important political force in Central America, as they attempted to implement progressive policies. 
"New liberal'' dictatorships, such as Somoza's, started a process of change toward institutionalization. They placed an emphasis on univer­sity education and the formation ofa middle class and a working class. 
Different elements came into play. The working class emerged as an organizatonal force and the middle class students became in­volved in politics. The students were the main force behind the reformist movement ofthe 50's. 
This began a process ofexpansion of consumption habits, formed by the middle and upper class. There was an increase in the production of sophisticated consumer goods while food production remained low, forcing many elements of the population to go hungry. The result of this trend was an increasingly concentrated income distribution. 
American interests are providing support for the exploitation of workers. The dictatorships are a way to maintain concentrated income distribution and to extract the surplus produced by the workers. 
Gilburt Loescher, who represents Amnesty International, presented Amnesty's role in Central America 
Loescher stated that Amnesty has been involved with the deteriorat­ing human right's situation in Central America 


.The <lbseoer_ ------===========-.c=·-====-=== 





~c:.cJlCl~=======================M=o=nd=a=y,~Ap~r=il=27=,1=9=8l===pa=g=e5~
Molarity 

NUDE ANATOMIC:~ R£~UL,A,TIDN CORP5 ...Tr 16 C!UR J1)8 To COIJTROL oN 
¢ OFF CAMPU6 1\JVDITY, B£ IT eLEffiANT k/ALKINC, OR. AR'Tl~/IC.. PLAY~ I>UfWJGy HDL..Y WE"~K ... LJ£'LL B£ 7H£RE IV ?7DP fT [ . .• TAAI 
MODEL YDU HltV~ I~ 
Michael Molinelli 



Campus 

•9 
a.m.-4 p.m. -academic ap­pearal rental at nd bookstore for faculty and graduating stu­dents. 


•4 
p.m. -lecture in german ­"tradition und kunstgestalt im dramatischen werk grillpar­zers," herbert seidler, u. ofvien­na, memorial library lounge, sponsored by dept. of modern languages. 

•6 
p.m.-9 p.m. -apiogenesis dance colletive, auditions and pre-registration, holy cross ( nd) party room. 







The Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 
ACROSS 23 Festive 1 Ground 24 American 5 Applaud lizard 9 Clinging 26 Chaplet 
fish 27 Bright star 11 Disserta­in Orion tion 28 Adversary 13 Filing 30 Workman case 32 Copycat 14 Caused 34 Cltyln resentment Ohio 16 Wood 35 Variety of 
sorrel pigeon ­17 Know-it-all 38 Postpone 19 New Guinea 41 Hoosier 
seaport poet 20 Chinese 42-mater dynasty· 44 Frequently 22 Bond 46 Culture servant medium


Friday's Solution 


Doonesbury 
Garry Trudeau 

ISN'TZONk£R. HEiL !* COMING I?CWN £.UVN. HIS FOR. 8REAXFA57? TRAINER 11 I Jl!ST /1/ENT

LAST CHANCE. • • to buy Observer Oassifieds Thursday 3 :00 
47 Sci-fi writer 49 -off 
(slacken) 50 Total 51 Tropical 
shrub 53 Gull 54 Furnish 56 Swallows 58 Prepared 
copy 59 Far East 
18 Chinese monetary unit 
21 Figure In a Millet painting 
23 African animal 
25 Unoccupied 
27 Lover boy 
29 Voice vote 
31 Offer a price 
61 Cloth of gold 
DOWN 1 Beirut's 
land 2 Friend: Fr. 3 Not any 4 Residue 5 Pursuit 6 Furnished 7 Inquire 8 Loot 9 Early 
French dramatist 10 Coral 
island 11 Unimportant 12 Fur-hunting 
ship 13 Tufted bunch 15 Compact 
60 Swallows up 33 Matured 
35 Human form 36 In the 
fashion 37 Melody 39 Cotton 
bunting 40 Take offense 41 Coarse 
file 43 Poplar 45 Tidings 47 -Into 
(sets to 
work) 48 Tangled mass 
51 English degree abbr. 
52 Cantata 
solo 55 By way of 57 Pro ­


, 
Alexander Ginzburg Soviet Dissident Speaking on: 
The Continuinl( Human Ril(hts Strul(l(le in the USSR 
April 30, 1981 8 : OOp m. Library Auditorium 
Workshop-Question and Answer Period 
May1, 1981 10:OOam. Library Lounge 
Admission for both is free 
-.~ 
Sponsored by Student Union Academic Commission and Committee on Academic Progress 

Monday, April27, 1981 -page 6
The Observer -Sports 

• • • s ortsbriefs 
continuedfrom page 7 

continuedfrom page 7 
Da•e Durbala (8373) v. Tom Dincolo (8622)
The Irish4x1600 meterrelay squadshat-

Ed IBulleit (1723) v. Warren Garden (1723) 
tered the school record by I2 seconds en route to a fifth place finish at 

Terry Reagan (8375) v. Chris Portman (8936)
the prestigious Drake Relays in Des Moines this weekend. The in· 

Mike Duggan (1582) v. Tom Cushing (6143)
dividual splits were a 4: I 0 forJim Moyar, 4:0 I for Chuck Aragon, 4: I 0 

Ste••e Fernandes (277-8857) v. Jim Redington
for Andy Dillon, and 4:07 for Tim Macauley. Other outstandingperfor­

(14:!9) 
mances for the Irish included Chuck Aragon's 4:14 fifth place finish in 

dohn Vanperdo (1185) v. Jim McDonnough (6221)
the invitational mile and a 9:54 distance medley consisting of Tim 

Bob Burger (8730) v. Jim Lane (8737) 
Macauley,Jacques Eady,Jim Moyar, and Andy Dillon. -TheObserver 

Dick Allison (232-1696) v. Paul Thompson 
Richard Thomas (3333) v. Lance Larsen 
The SaintMary's softballteam improved its record 

Dave Gale (232-1696) v. Don Halagan 
to 13-7 over the weekend with four wins. On Friday afternoon in Hol­

Don Cugini (3333) v. Joe Disa (1145) 
land, Mich., the Belles defeated Hope College 3-2 and 8-3. In Chicago 

Marty Hogan (8608) v. Mike Landy 
on Saturday, Saint Mary's swept past host St. Xavier College 7-6 in the 

Dan Brutocao (1689) v. Jim Rodgers 
semifinal round of Xavier's invitational tournament. The Belles 

Rich Hillsman (1748)-BYE 
captured the championship with a 4-3 win over Elmhurst College 
MEN'S Saturday's Results Notre Dame 8, Kalamazoo 1 
later Saturday afternoon. Saint Mary's plays host to Butler this after­
noon at 3:30. -Tbe Observer. 
SINGLES 

No.1-Mark McMahon (NO) def. Chris Burns6-2, 6-2. 
The Notre Dame baseball team dropped two of 


three games over the weekend at the Northwestern Invitational in
Bookstore celebrities past and present plot strategy for future 

No.2-Herb Hopwood (NO) def. Mark Riley 6-3, 
Evanston, Ill., lowering its record to I6-I4-I for the season. The Irish 

6-3. No. 3-Mark Hoyer (NO) def. Ven Johnson 7-5, 
tournments prior to yesterday's championship game. From left to 
blew a 4-I lead in the bottom ofthe seventh Friday afternoon against

right: Vince Meconi (1972, 1974), Fritz Hoefer (the Hoosier who 
6-2. 
Illinois Tech, the eventual tourney champ, losing 5-4. Jim Montagano 

No.4-Jim Falvey (NO) def. Bill Vanderhoef 6-4, 6-3. 
conceived the tourney in 1972), Tim "Bone"Bourret (1975-77), and 
hit his sixth homer of the year for Notre Dame in a losing cause. The

RobSimari (1980-81). (photo by RudyPerez) 

No.5-Tom Hartzell (NO) de f. Dave Cafmeyer 6-2. 
Irish defeated North ~ntral 3-2 in their next outing behind Mike 

6-2. 
No.6-Tom Robison (NO) de f. Dave Higdon 3-6, 6-0,7-5.
Deasey's six-hitter and Henry Valenzuela's three-hit, two-RBI perfor­
mance. Valenzuela hit his fifth homer in the third inning. Northwes­
DOUBLES 

No. 1 -Burns & Riley (K) def. Hopwood & Hoyer 7-5, 7-6 (5-2). 
tern, which travels to Notre Dame for a 1 p.m. doubleheader this 
afternoon atJake Kline Field, ended the Irish weekend on a losing note 

No. 2 -McMahon & Falvey (NO) def. Vanderhoef 
yesterday with a 9-5 win. The Wildcats are now 13-23 in 1981.-The 

& Pete Ballantine 6-3, 6-2. 
No. 3 -Tim Noonan & Paul ldzik (NO) def.
Observer. 
availaBle 1n Stu0€nt CjOV€Rnm€Tlt orrlc€ 
•

r.____bu€ BY 7:00 p.m. apRil 2s••••____ 
BARCLAY'S MEAT &PRODUCE RESTAURANT • 52885 U.S. 31 NORTH SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 
SinL·e our inr:eption in 1969, it ha.., been the philoo;ophy of Barclay's that student., make outstanding employees. 
Our company, Corllinental Reo;taurant Systems. is presently expanding rhroughout the United StateS. Locally, we will employ 140 to 160 people both full and part time, da)· or night. 
We are r:urremly accepting applications for: 
Food Waiters & Waitresse.;; Cocktail Waitreso;es 
Hostes~es 
Bu~boys/Busgirls 
Dishwa~hef\ 
Cashier'i Bartenders Secretaries 
Broiler Cooks Food Prep 
Maintenance Men Management Trainees 
Barclay's provides an excellent opporrunity for fun and lucrative jobs. 
Apply in person between 8:00 a.m. -5:00p.m. Monday through Saturday. 
Due to various state labor laws, we are forced to set a minimum age of 18. Interested?? 
Barcla)''s Meal & Produce Re~taurant 52885 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 


at the 
NDSU 

Johnson & Kevin Johnson 6-4, 6-4. Ne"t Milich: at DePaul, Wednesday Noire Deme Record: 22-9. 
WOMEN'S 

Saturday's Results NCJ1tre Dame 5, Western Illinois 4 
SINGLES No. 1 -Donena Brummett (WIU) del. Cindy Schuster6-0, 6-1. No.2-linda Hoyer (NO) del. Nancy Bean 6-0,6-2. No.3-Pam Fischette (NO) del. Judy Vii­chuck 6-1, 6-4. No. 4 -Mary Maloney (WIU) del. Carol Shukis 6-4, 6-3. No.5-Mary Legeay (NO) del. Cindy Morel 6-0,6-3. No. 6-Peggy Walsh (ND) del. Sheri An­derson 6-3,6-1. 
DOUBLES No.1-Brummett & Bean (WIU) del. Hoyer & Tina Stephan 6-4, 7-5. No. 2 -Vilchuck & Maloney (WIU) del. Legeay & Fischette 6-1, 6-2. Nco. 3 -Sheila Cronin & Stasia Obremskey (ND) del. Morel & Anderson 6-1,6-3. Next Match: St. Mary's College, tomorrow. Courtney Tennis Center, 3:30. Notre Dame Record: 19-6. 
Starring:

*George Clinton 
••••••••••••••••
11"\ •
* Bootsy Collins 

llliatre, •
*Sly Stone! 

•Notre Dame A.C.C. • South Bend, Indiana It 
II Cmcg'Ulfufllfimf6:
II T1ckets $9 00/$8 00 all s""ls reserved. on sale al all3 RIVer Cily Records !U.S Jt 
I•
Norfh_ Western Ave -Soulh Bend and Dunes Plaza-M•ch•gan C•ly). Suspended Chord 
• 

1Eikhar11. J.R. s llaPorlet. Recordland 1Ben1on Harbor & Kalamazoo). Karma (fori Umled Records !Gary). lrckelmn I Chicago) and lhe A C.C. Box Olf1ce II 
II OK YOWl jolt at: 
II 
•

II • 
:: ~fff: 

CAMPUS 
VIEW 
This coupon entitles you to a SO% SAVINGS on one cassette copy. The prices listed below include the Rezound Copy Cassette!® 

APART~{lENTS
CABS. COPY BJIG. WUJ1 J.ZBGrll n:MB PBICZ COUPOB 30 mm 1 mm. S2 19 11.09 60 mm 2 mm 52.89. Sl.<IB 90mm 3mm $3.79. 11.89 120 mm. 4 mm 14.79 1&.39 

NOW RENTING IFOR SUMMER 
The Hammes Notre 

I BEDROOM-$230 2 BEDROOM-$275
Dame Bookstore 

(monthly rates)
I 12e2()lND® Coupon ExpU'es I L~~NG~~--~~~J special low summer rates: 
available June-August IS 
utilities paid. central! air and heated pool. 
for info, call: 272-1441 


• .: l 
~ 
1 
l 
1 
I 
I 
I
~ji>()~tS~~~. ..~..~~~nf:A:.rm:cw:,f;dP:r,=,I(===========================M=o=n=d=ay=,r-~Ap=r=il=2=7=,=19=8=1===p=ag=e==7 I17,nt~~~b~=.~~=,~~7 
Football and hockey ticket applications and in­
formation arc: bdng mailed out today. The sale and distribution of tkkc:ts is being handlc:d somewhat differently than in past years, but the forms currently in campus mail arc quite self-explanitory. The dl·adline for returning the 1981 football ticket application isjune 20. lbc: due: date for the 1981 -82 hockey ticket application in August I5. Any student wishing to return their application to the ticket office before they leave for the summer is encouraged to do so. If any stu­dent does not receive an application this week, they MUST contact Steve Orsini at the ticket office ( 7354) before they leave for the sum­mer. -Tbe Obser11er 
The Irish men's tennis teatn battled a cold and 
windy Saturday afternoon to beat the Fighting Hornets of Kalamazoo 
College 8-1. The victory upped Notre Dame's season record to 22-9. 
Mark McMahon defeated Kalamazoo's Chris Burns 6-2, 6-2 to notch 
his 25th victory against only six setbacks. McMahon's victory ex­
tended his winning streak to nine. The Irish dominated early, locking 
up the match by winning all six singles matches. The team will travel 
to DePaul Wednesday to take on the Blue Demons. Friday, the Irish 
will host Eastern Michigan in their final home match this year. -Tbe 
Vbseroer 
Notre Datne's Ultimate Frisbee Club will practice this afternoon at 3:30 p.m. on the Memorial Library Field. Newcomers arc: welcome as always. Team shirts will be on sale at the practice. -Tbe ObsertJ~>r. 
The ND-SMC Right-to-Life groupis hotding a 
jogathon on Sunday May 3rd between I:30 and S p.m. on Cartier Field behind the ACC. Sponsor forms can be picked up at the Tom Dooley Room in Lafortune, I I 0 Holy Cross Hall, 215 Breen-Phillips, or 332 Holy Cross Hall {SMC).-Tbe Obsen1er. 
Senior Kathy Merra led yet another impressive per­formance by the Notre Dame women's track club this weekend at Southwestern Michigan. Although no team scores were kept, student­coach John Amato says the club placed "at least fifth." Mcrra placed second in the meet in the 3000-meter run with a time of I 0:42.0. Most impn_-ssive was the fact that she finished only eight seconds behind Southwestern's Michigan's Julie Lantis. Lantis placed fourth in last year's nationals for women's cross-country. Another top performance included the blowout by freshman Rosemary Desloge in the I 500­meter race as she finished first with a time of 4:50.0 and her nearest competitor 200 meters behind. Sophomores Cindy Short and Mary O'Connor, and freshman Carolyn Woidat, meanwhile, finished second in their events. Short ran l :02.7 in the 400-meter dash and O'Connor was clocked in 2:31.3 in the BOO-meter run, and Woidat sprinted to a 
I: II.4 time in the 400-meter intermediate hurdles. Freshman Rachel Allen and Usa Monti finished fourth and fifth in the 400-meter dash with times of 1:04.9 and 1:05.5, respectively. The Irish season concludes Saturday with the Manchester Invitational at Manchester, Indiana 
The Notre Datne women's tennis team 
zeroed in on victory No. 20 when the Irish nipped Western Illinois, 5-4 on the Courtney TennisCentercourtsSaturday. The decisiol). over the Division I Leathernecks boosted Notre Dame's 1980-81 record to 19-6. The Irish captured four of six singles matches, but needed a victory at No. 3 doubles after their first two doubles tandems lost. Sheila Cronin and Stasia Obremskey clinched the triumph, but not without a scare when Obrcmskcy fell to the court in the second set. She returned to action despite a strained foot, and the pair went on to a 6-l, 6-3 decision. Notre Dame will seek its first 20-win campaign ever when it plays host to St. Mary's in its final dual match of the year tomorrow at 3:30 p.m. at Courtney. The Irish bumped off St. Mary's 6-3 in the f.LII. 
See SPORTSBRIEFS, page 6 

:t#IINTERHALL 
lnterhall GoH Palrlnga Doug Ventura (3302) v. Joan Tonen (8044) Mike Cervenak (3305) v. Broan Ledley (3287) Mike Nuesdorfer (3310) v. Paul Henies Francisco Garc1a (3320) v. Bob Barclay Mike Corcoran (8386) v. John Mangan (8398) Jeff Branogan (1177) v. Dan Sharkey (1200) Edward Gartland (1578) v. Bruce Lemon (1581) Dave Jakopin (8220) v. Mark Gschwynd Ken Fosher (1958) v. Bubba Cunningham Jack Eosenbe1s (1044) v. Ed Knauf (3058) Chris Carroll (8200) v. Moke Maas (8894) Paul Weilhman (1802) v. Joe Wahlig (1791) Dick Byrne (8718) v. Jim Sla11ery (8727) Sam Sherril (8713) v. Steve Theobald (8703) Earl Rix (3850) v. Mike Me1zler (8400) Bob S1ewar1 (3775) v. Bob Healy (3439) Mike McAuliffe (4531) v. Sieve AUmann (6705) Jeff Yingling (8658) v. Rich Schwe1ger (8860) Keo1h Cree han (1609) v. Bill Hooglerp (1741) Bill Strorman (8902) •. Jim Malkus (8898) Charles Penna (461'.0) v Jock Schneoder (1033) 
Bill Doran (1101) v. James Woll (1105) Tony Thomas (3191) v. Don Machado Jim Roeder (1409) v. Jim Alberloli Mark Monroe (1419) v. Joe Celarek (1604) Dock Boushka (1858) v Don Cassody (1160) Moke Berry (3248) v. Dan Keleher (1213) Kevin Cairns (8233) v. Dave Mohlman (8545) Dan O'Donnell (8381) v. John Pendl (8823) 
See INTERHALL, page 6 
All r.l.tS!.•f,!•<l ads mu!;! hE' ref~•veo t·'r' -l -l5 p rn two dd'r'S j.)ri~H J,') the 
•SSIIJ> 1rl wh1ch rtw 1<1 -. 1un The Observer olt1ce wd! dCl epl c·.h~d 1 t>ds 
Mond.n tt"ltrlll~h F11d,1\ t 0 00 .1m 10!) 00 p m A•l class•l.t•d'i ••1ust be
Classifieds 
j)l!'·jhiHl t' 1' rH!r 1n llt'f~l)n lH ltHOUCftl !Ill!' rn.ul 
RING FOUND NEAR LIBRARY IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY! CAMPUS­Will pay for graduahon tickets. Please Sign-up for fall Sluden1 Player dorec1or MUST HAVE 6,(Ye~ .1hal· ;_as SIX). VIEW APARTMENT AVAILABLE FOR
BEFORE BREAK CALL 5240 AT SMC contact Lorne ASAPII 277-8348 , 283-a1 Student Unoon by May 1. GRADUATION TIX 111111111111111111 WILL
L NOTICES J 
TO IDENTIFY RENT IN MAY. 2 BEDROOMS. 2 7097. 
PAY ANY REASONABLE PRICE BATHS, FULLY FURNISHED. CHEAP! I! 
Bluze Brothers CALL ANNE a1 6872... 11 I'm not In try FOUND A Gold Wedd1ng Type ring al CALL GAY 4-1·4441 AFTER 11 P.M. Need ONE Grad 1icke1. Will pay. Call Bluze Bro1hers again, i1 will be wor1h your wh1leINSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS 
1he Flanner Formal Aprol10 a11he ball­Rich al287-8596. Thanks. 
Bluze Brothers room. call1523 (Mark). All righ1. I'll sel11e for a rode Washongton Hall Friday 9:30 PHOTOGRAPHERS WHO 6i[) NOT RINGS $20·$85 OR MORE WE MAKE 
HOUSE CALLS. 255-2402 
ANYWHERE in Florida AFTER I domonaled Joe Kleine's high school PICK UP THEIR APPLICATIONS AND LOST: ONE GOLD WATCH BETWEEN GRADUATION.The closer lo Miami the basketball team. If you don'1 believe -vote-PHOTOGRAPHS FROM THE OB­TYPING. MODEST RATES. 233-9491 WALSH AND HAYES HEALEY BEFORE bel1er. Call John Higgons al 8553 or me, or if you do, and have any gradua­--OBREMSKEY SERVER: THE LAST DAY TO PICK EASTER BREAK IF FOUND, PLEASE 1715and leave a message. hon lickels call Ken1 al232-0921. --HANSON THEM UP IS ON APRIL 29 FROM 2:00TYPING··Only $.65 a page Call Dan. 
CALL JANE 8045 --OGREN 
T04:00 PM. IF THEY ARE NOT PICKED Need 2 lickels lo Graduahon. Call Bill --ROSS272·5549 
REWARD: LOVING AUNT WILL PAY UP AT THAT TIME. THEY WILL BE LOST: Light blue-dark blue rain slicker 1535 BIG BUCKS TO SEE GODCHILD For Fmance Club DISPOSED OF.
PROFESSIONAL TYPING. Term 1 
at Senior Bar on Wednesday noghl. Has GRADUATE. NEED 1 TICKET. CALL on April291h ... .. ...
papers. lheses. elc. Tape lranscrop11on. 
car keys on pocket Please call Sheila at Roders wanted to California (San Fran­DANNY3636. 
SENIORS: YOU ARE MAGNIFICENT 4-1·4421. cisco area) Leaving ND on or around Hey Mags, Last year's same low pnces. All work 
HUMAN BEINGS. SEE "A THOUSAND May 19 (flexoble). Call Jaime between I may do a poor job of showong II, butguaranteed aardvark automatic solo­
CLOWNS" THURSDAY OF SENIOR LOST A BLUE VEST AT SOUTH DINING 7-11 p.m. 3852. you still have a friend In me. F.G. WEEK HALL ON GOOD FRIDAY. CALL JIM AT lions 289-8753 
"'C..·"-""............... .. ....
NEW JERSEY BUS. 
I PERSONALS 1

1073. PURDUE STUDENT NEEDS TO SUB­DANCE I Wanna do it? Fond out FUN. THRILLS. DEBAUCHEREYIII ALL There are SIIIIIUSI a lew seats lell. The 
LEASE AN APARTMENT FOR SUM­TONIGHT 6pm Holy Cross Hall Par1y Observer produc11on s1all lake nola:bus slops on Easl Brunswock and NYC. 
Lost: my samty, somewhere around MER. SEND OFFERS TO 1059 WILEY, Room or call3166 lhere woll be a mandatory meelong this
$73 oncludes re1urn 1rip on Augusl. Call STUDENTSI!I
Easier break. lllound, keep 11. 11's more W. LAFAYETIE, IND. 47906 OR CALL Froday noghl Deta1ls avaolable from
Moke McClure al x1207. Sea1s are IF YOU LIVE ON THE NORTHSIDE
fun 1o be on 1he dark side of 1he 317-493-9236 CLOSER TO MISHA­Everyone allen1ionlll 
your "ole Uncle Ryan". Everyone woll moon.... WAKA PREFERRED. The Observer's 1alenled and modest
reserved by payment only CHICAGO AREA, CALL US NOW! WE 
allend regardless of marotalslalus (lhls receptionist-secretary-type person has means you Monk} WANT BRIGHT, AGGRESSIVE STU­
WILL DO TYPING CALL 287-5162 DE!IoTS TO SELL RADIO ADS OVER
LOST: One BILL BOLANGER---if Rode 1o Columbus. Oh. (OH.ST.) May 1. found new respect and admiration m
THE PHONE. THIS SUMMER,

found, please do NOT relurnl (Just ge1-Please call 5255 SMC. Share expenses. her desk nameplale. Come congral­S1yles.
Bog prohlsl Y~ur own whoi~sale bu~i: NATIONWIDE. SUPER PAY POTEN­
1ing even, Bill I). ula1e her!l! Say goodbye to Shirley lor Your're clulch. Thanks.
ness 2,000 las1-sellong olems. Free TIAL! IF YOU QUALIFY, WE'LL the year is almos1 over II II 
success de1aolsl Horozons. Box 8020-Z, GUARANTEE YOU POSITION AND Oris 
Found:large whole dog. To claim. call Do YOU need a roommate? boarder?
Unoversal Coly. Calli. 91608 PAY! CALL TIM -FREE -9:00·5:00,
1983 or 1967. housesi11er? I will be slaying in South see lrank shepherd as robert frosl 
HfSHIRLEYII Bend lor the summer, and I need living aprol28. 1981MON. THRU FRI. CALL NOWI 1-800­
SAVE 50 percent 621-6426.
FOUND: PAIR OF GLASSES on Senoor space. Please cal Alex al3255. 8:00 library audi1orium 
Roghl now you can save 50 percenl oil Desperate: Need lo complele mu11c 
Bar on Aprol22. Call Mike a13158. 

lhe proce of your forsl Rezound cassel1e I need lhrH gnldullllon lfcketa. C..l collection before go1ng over-seas
Going to Northern California? copy You can copy any cassel1e from 1 Joe Conroy 1111570. Do you want to be going 1o California? Need lhe followong for recording monule 1o 120 mmules on less lhan 4 
purposes: S1ones -Hoi Rocks &
Have you seen an all-male bathhouse? monules lome, both sodes simul· Fazed Cookoes. Goalshead Soup.
Do you want to ea11ols of weird organic laneously Offer good through May 31. SENIORS: Are you tired of being Flowers, MetamorphOSIS, Bealles ­
food?. or join a llaky religoous cull?

.... _FO_R...~~-rejected? Have we jus1 conceded lo 1he Rubber Soul, Magocal Myslery Tour:1981 onty at your Hammes Notre Dame I FOR RENT ,I.__ __......~--~....---'.I Well. we're goong to lhe land of frUI1 
Bookslore ultimate mjec1ion ...A re1ection of rejec­Davod Bowoe -Hunky Dory, S1evoe
and nu1s-and we need riders! 
L--------------' 

1974 VW Super Beelie Good condition, 
tion noght? Lei's le11he s1alf of Sanior Wonwood-Arcola Olver: Eric Clap-
Why come wi1h us? Why nol? Why?

Good mileage Call277-7160 
WILL THE STUDENTS WHO TOOK MY Bar know how we feel and reject their 1on -Slow Hand, Backless. Anolher TWO LEPRECHAUNS FROM MY rejection of our greatly deserved rejec­Ticke1: Grate lui Dead-Bears Chooce. 
Anyway, minimum 60 mph. lots of 
ribald humor 1o ease 1he dull passageAVAILABLE SUMMER AND NEXT

FRONT PORCH OVER THE WEEKEND 72 CHEVY Impala. 4-dr.. aor, power. tion noghl. Doors-Soft Parade: Jellerson Aorplane 
lhru Utah. comfor1able back seal (leeSCHOOL YEAR 5 BEDROOM HOUSE, 

NEW BRAKES, EXHAUST. TUNE UP. 1 AND 3 BEDROOM APARTMENTS
FOR A PARTY. PLEASE RETURN -Surrealls1oc Pollow, Je1hro lull·
hee) and at no ex1ra charge -we lei 

THEM NO QUESTIONS ASKED IF Uses reg. gas. VERY GOOD CONDI­WILL THERE BE A REJECTION S1and Up. Mms1rel in the Gallery, Pas·
you share the expenses! 
234·2626 TION. $995.256-2815 

NECESSARY, CALL 234-7332. NIGHT? sion Play The greates1 care woll be
Once in a lifellme oppor1unily -lhe provoded to the records which will beghosl of Moose Conlrol and olher as·

House For Renl 919 So. Bend Ave. for sale. 72 ponloac catalina. call ERIN bedrooms, 2 ba1hs Call Tom McGann 234-6298
Do YOU need a roomma1e? boarder? 5 IF OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING IS COS­so gractous to lend thetr recorda
sor1ed goblins will accompany us. housesol1er? I woll be stayong in Soulh TING YOU ABOUT $100 A MONTH AND Send applicahons 1o The Observer Please call-Boll-1588, Tom -6891,
277-3461 or 272-9299 

Bend lor 1he summer. and I need loving YOU ARE NOT GETIING THE BEST. Travel Board, PO Box Q, campus mail. orOon-6718 
for sale: snow tires in excellent condt­
apace Please call Alex al3255. CALL291-1405. P.S. We r..lly •r• going to C•llfomiL
House for SUMMER -LOW RENT OR lion. caii277-B839 af1er 7 pm. 

ATTENTION.
WORK FOR RENT CALL 277-3461 OR

INTERNSHIPS are ava1lable on Cromona! I would like 1o lhank those individuals Special One N1ghl Only J.D. is in need ol men Please apply ol
272-9299 RIP ME OFF! MUST SELL 5 CASES POOL CHLORINE-YOU CALL PRICE 

Just•ce and Urban Stud1es. These inter­who devoted I heir lime and effor1 in my Beneftl Performance you meet the followong qualifica11ons · 
nships BrA ror2 semesters. For more ln­campa1gn for Ugly Man on Campus. I for 1he Andy Sowder -own polyesler panls 
STAYING IN SOUTH BEND THIS SUM­277-8561

lormaloon, contacl Prof Vasoli al1357 would 1us1 like lo lei them know 1hal Scholarship Fund -wear slockong caps 1n 1he sprong
MER? RENT OUR CAMPUSVIEW 

or 287· 7996 1hey were. indeed. campaigning lor The Bluze Brolhers -generally look weord
APARTMENT. 2 BEDROOMS. 2 

1974 FORD GALAXY PS-PB-AT-AC . THE UGLIEST man on campus. Washmgton Hall It's IUS! whal she needs BATHROOMS. FULLY FURNISHED. 
EXCELLENT RUNNING CONDITION Jeff Jeffers Froday 9:30p.m.
CHEAPIII CALL CATHY 4·1-4380 AF­$500 OR BEST OFFER. 283-8573. 

AmesTER6P M 
Foreign Policy: the End of Human US: Thanks for brunchl II was lhe forsl
ILOST/FOUND I 
FOR SALE: YASHICA TLX 35MM WITH sober celebration 1n weeks.
Rogh1s? Bob. Rock & Paui-Summer sublet-2br townhouse wtth VIVATAR 70-210 ZOOM. 28MM WIDE 

An Informal Deba1e Ntce meet1ng you guys!
washer & dryer Great apt renl nego 

ANGLE FLASHER. FILTENT. CASE Professors. Walshe, Loescher, Skop-Leen-I hope you llgure out your so· 
277-81'58 

CALL MAJOR BURNS 7274. coal calendar IUSI a li111e beller nexl you p1cked 11 up, please call Jane1 a1 helped make a lew more noca 
LOST A lootball on Madeleva Foeld II Hommes You are someone spec1al who 
Tuesday, April28 8:00pm weekend! I otf1ctally res1gn as soctal For Sale-1968 Ford Cuslom 500. Good secretary! Just keep away from guys
4152 
Walsh Hall-South Lounge memones for me. Take care! 
condillon. Call SMC 4526. Wllh llchy necks I 
Malor-JESUIT VOLUNTEER CORPS repre­Whal haveyou?(Need I say more?) 

(You gol1a love oil) sen1alove to be on Volunteer Servoces Love ya· lots! Office. 1.5 Lafortune on Wednesday 4· You all played great You're s1oll won­To the Walbash Fove. 
The Observer IUSPS 598 920) os 
29-81 be1ween 1:00 and 5:00 lo in1er­ners to me! The road lrop was great I've go1 all publoshfld Monday 1hrough Froday 
I I
TICKETS
Wanted: housemale for nexl year. Call v~ew persons interested in maktng .. Babycakes lhe cliches memorozed Nexll1me I'll be excepl durong exam and vacaloon 
288-8726 or 6821 .______________.J_ 
application. sure to bnng a bollle of Cella along to peroods The Observer 15 publoshed 
help calm everyone's nerves. NEED RIDE lo Miami-Fl. Lauderdale Paper Airplane Conies! Winners: 
I need 3 (1hal's 1hree) graduation tiCk­FAN APPRECIATION NIGHT MONDAY Distance-M Lachance Walbash No.6 AFTER GRADUATION for 1 or 2
by the slunenls of Noire Dame and 
ets (Yes. folks, o1's s1arlong a/mady.)lf AT IRISH COUNTRY FIRST DRAFT Endurance-P. Niner
Sam! Marys College Subscrop1oons people Call John H1gg1ns al 8553 or 
you can help me, call Scoop a11772. GLASS FREE Aerobatics-D. Barron Late al night. Ihe senses reel, 1he mond
may be purchased lor $30 per year 
1715 and leave a message Onginaltty-P Niner wanders Emo11ons or the day arei$15 per semes1er) by wrolong The Ob­

NEEDED MANY TICKETS FOR GRADA­gel a rea11ob. Konrady Congratulations! remembered, but are best forgotten A 
server, P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame In· 
Roch couson needs 4 GA licke1s for USC TION. CALL TIM AT 16500R 1868 qu~et sadness lays heavy on tho aoul. 

game on fall. Call4373doana 46556 8:00p.m. library audi1oroum MARGIE 

Some1hong has ended. What pains will The Observer os a member ol the 
GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED tuesday. april28. 1981 The balle1os lan1as11c · ( lor an IE lhal 1he new beginnong bring? Goodbye,
WANTED. A VOLKSWAGON ('72-'76) WILL PAY$$ Call Jean 7130. IS I I I) break a leg I PMB
Assocoaleel Press All reproducloon 
MUST BE IN GOOD RUNNING CONDI· S1~d~~1-·Pi~ye~· F~ll dl;~~1~;· s~~r~hl pk
roqr1ts are reserved 
TION. CONVERTIBLE IS PREFERRED 

Need Gradualoon licke1s -woll pay Sign-up to be one a1 Sludenl Union byCALL CATH 4-1-4380 AFTER 6 PM. handsomely call R1ck 1932 Turn oul1he lights. lhe par1y's over. Ultoma1ely, Nothong Mailers
May 1 


,-­

Monday, April27, 1981 --page 8
Snorts 
Defeat T.P.S. 22-20 

Tripucka leads Nads to title 
By FRANK LaGROTTA on player Kevin Hawkins, and St. 
Tripucka hit three from the gift line. and SKIP DESJARDIN Louis Cardinal quarterback Rusty 
Tripucka scored the game winner 

Sports Writers Lisch led their squad to a 21-17 vic­
on a jumper from the left baseline tory, scoring seven, six, and five 
while being fouled. Kelly Tripucka became the latest points respectively. Bill Hanzlik of 
In the All-Star game, four former in a line ofplayers that includesJohn the Seattle Supersonics, and former 
players from champion Chumps' Shumate, Dave Batton, Jeff Carpen­Bookstore great Tom Sudkamp each 
teams -Hanzlik, Sudkamp, Dan ter, and Bill Hanzlik yesterday when had five points in a losing effort. 
Short, and Dave Marcel -teamed he led his team, Re-Classified Nads, In the championship game, 
up with commissioner Rob Simari to to the Bookstore Championship. In Tripucka and a large number offoul 
make up one team. the second-highest scoring final calls spelled defeat for T.P.S. Greg 
The other squad featured game in the history of the tourney, Bell added six points to Toran's Keenehan, the leaderofthe Howard Re-Classified... beat T. P. S.. 22-20. eight in the game for the losers. Man­
interhall team and this year's final Tripucka, who garnered sel Carter chipped in three points, 
eight entrant WEBB's End. Had an Bookstore M.V.P. honors, and later but his eight fouls took their toll. All-Star MVP heen awarded, all passed them on to a teammate, Re-Classified, who beat the tour­
agreed that Keenehan would have scored 14 points on 23 shots in the ney's number one-ranked team, walked away with it. game, while Stacy Toran made good jackson Five, plus T.B. Express and 
Besides Hawkins and Lisch, other on half of his 16 attempts for the Head over Heels, to reach the final 
members ofthe team included assis­runners-up. game, got three points each from 
tant basketball coach Gary Brokaw Early in the day, it seemed like the Ken "Stinky" Stack and "Sleepy" joe and the founder of Bookstore, Fritz weather would prove to be as un­Grueber. Stack was given the MVP 
Hoefer, whose one basket was the cooperative as it has been each of award by Tripucka after the game. game-winner. the last three seasons. But shortly First team All-Bookstore player Bo 
A record crowd of nearly 2500 before game time the clouds parted, Ellis was only one-for-eleven, but 
people packed the ACC Backyard the sun came out, and the tem­played tough defense and a good 

Blacktop for the contest. In atten­perature climbed. The conditions board game. 
dance were Vince Meconi, the first were among the best ever for a final This year's Mr. Bookstore, Tim commissioner; Tim "Bone" Burret, game. Collins, hit only one of his eight 
who brought Bookstore to national The original Master ofDisaster, Kelly Tripucka, brings the ball Prior to the finals, an all-star game shots. 
prominence; and coaches Gerry upcourt yesterday afternoon in the Bookstore X championship featuring past and present T.B. Express downed NEBO's II, 
Faust and Digger Phelps, along with game. Tripucka's Re-Ciassifed Nads edged T.P.S. 22-20 before 2500 Bookstore legends was held. Sopho­Chipigula..., and Masters of Disaster members oftheir staffs. fans beind the ACC. (photo by RudyPerez) more Bob Keene~an, varsity walk-to reach the title contest. Neither team had more than a "It was perfect day," said a three point lead throughout the beaming Simari at a private recep-· 
lion following the game. "We as­number of times in the second half. 
Quarterback undecided 
finale, and the lead changed hands a sembled the greatest cast of any 
Bookstore tournamentFinally, fouls took their toll, as 

>BOOKSTORE AWARDS Carl Love-Masters of Disaster Mr. Bookstore (Best non-jock)-2nd Team All-Bookstore Tim Collins Maurice Hackney-Chipiguta... 
Offense improves on'Faust' system 
Most Valuable Player -Ken Kevin Dix-Webb's End 
By PAUL MULLANEY after the fourth quarter. for the most part. "Don't forget that 
Sports Writer Koegel, who directed the first we put in a five-down situation for 
Stack Mark Davis-Hill's Angels 
scoring drive of the scrimmage -a the first defense, and they did a great 
Jtbn Man (Best display of masoc-Mark Meyer-Return of the Nut-
In what Gerry Faust called 26-yard series capped off by Phil job," says Faust. 
bism) "7"" Terry Mannion meggers
"intense football with great en: Carter's one-yard run -completed Defensive end Mansel Carter, who 
~olden Hatchet (Biggest hacker) Steve Notarro.-Jacksons 
thusiasm," Notre Dame scrimmaged just two of seven attempts for 32 started with the second defensive 
.••..•.•. Mansel Carter All-Faust Team 
Saturday for the second and final yards and one interception. Koegel unit, was the defensive star of the 
Hoosier Award (Abundant shoo.t-NickVehr-The Assassins 
time before this weekend's Blue-had some tough luck, however, as a scrimmage. He had four quarterback 
ir}g with limited proficiency) -Mike Boushka-Masters of Dis-
Gold intrasquad affair. pretty 17-yard connection with sacks for 29 yards, including the 
aster

"They're getting better every time receiver Greg Knafelc was called safety in the second quarter. out," said first-year coach Faust, "but back for holding and an endzone Also impressive was linebacker 
Chris Brown -Masters of 

it takes a' little time. They're really grab by Tripp was ruled out of joe Rudzinski, who sacked Grooms 
Disaster 

improving." bounds. once, intercepted ajim 0 T 'Hara pass, Faust was especially pleased with In the third quarter, Koegel put and recovered a fumble when 
ake.JhisBaiL. StacyToran-T.P.S. 
the progress the Irish have made in together a 71-yard drive that ended Moseley muffed a Kevin Smith 
Assassins Greg Bell-T.P.S. 
learning his brand new offensive sys-with fullback Larry Moriarty carry­pitchout. tern. While he admits that the of-ing it over right tackle from three fense isn't ready for game yards out. That drive saw Koegel's conditions, he feels it has progressed only two completions on the after­well since the Irish first scrimmaged noon -a 19-yard strike to Tripp and two weeks ago. a 13-yard fling to Moriarty -and 
Oreos take women,s title 
"I think it's obvious how the guys Phil Carter runs of 13 and 19 yards. are getting more and more con-·--------------­fidence in themselves," Faust said. finals.
"This week we've just got to polish Spring Football'81 By KELLY SULLIVAN of their field goals. Big Mac Tricia up a little more." Sports Writer McManus, who reached double In semifinal action on Saturday, 
Offensive coordinator Tom Lich-figures in all previous bookstore Oreos defeated Your Mother in tenberg also thought the scrimmage Shari Matvey, a 6-0 forward on games, was held to just seven in the overtime, 24-22, on a sizzling 11-13 in the stadium proved "we're getting Grooms was four-of-ten for 31 Notre Dame's women's basketball finals. Missy Sorapure also had five performance by Matvey. Women's better. And we've been able to use a yards on the afternoon. He took part team, has a knack for coming up with for the losers. varsity basketball coach Mary DiS­
tanislao and assistant Mary Murphy

lot of kids. But we're still making in one scoring drive -a 24-yard ef­winning combinations. After losing Oreos led 1 1-8 at the half, and each had eight baskets in a losing ef­
some mistakes, especially on block­fort in the final quarter which saw three seniors from her 1980 capitalized on foul shots to widen fon. Big Mac advanced to the finals
ing assignments and the like. But Moriarty scamper around right end Bookstore basketball squad, which the margin. It was the second year in with a win over Nothing But Gold.
what makes me really happy is that from six yards out. captured the women's champion­a row that Big Mac was eliminated Maggie Lally managed just two
we're not making many turnovers." "I was pleased with our quarter­ship last spring, Matvey and senior from bookstore by a Matvey-led
The main question of the spring hacks today," Faust said. "I think all joy Orie teamed up with three fresh­points for the losers, while Me Manus 
team, falling last year in the semi-again paced Big Mac with I3.
-\\ ho will start at quarterback in three of them know what we want man, and the two returnees earned 
September? -was by no means right now. They arc three fine quar­themselves a second consecutive answert.·d Saturday. Incumbent BLair terbacks." Women's Bookstore title. Kid and senior Tim Koegel, listed Co-captain Phil Carter was the The tournament concluded yes­even on the Irish depth chart, shared outstanding rusher, carrying 18 terday morning behind the A.C.C., time with the No. I unit for the first times for 93 yards. Greg Bell carried and those who braved rain and chilly 
three 12-minutc quarters. I 5 times for 59 yards, while john temperatures saw Matvey's Oreos Sophomore-to-be Scott Grooms Moseley gained 34 yards on ten down Big Mac and the Quarter worked with the second offense for carries. Moriarty ran eight times for Pounders by a score of 21-16. three quarters and the first unit for 43 yards, and john Sweeney gained "We just had a strong desire to the final quarter. 25 yards in seven rushes. win," explained Matvey, whose 8-28 
Kiel completed five of 11 passes Wide receiver Mike Boushka was shooting effort was match~d by 5-9 for 7 3 yards, including a 21-yard also impressive, making two spec­teammate Lisa Johnson's 8-27 per­touchdown pass to wingback Tim tacular catches. The first was a 21-formance. Both players grabbed Tripp which culminated a 65-yard, yard pass from Kiel in which he eight rebounds as well. "Joy and I eight-play drive in the third quarter. literally stole the ball from defend­especially had a lot of incentive be­Kiel, who fumbled into Bob Clasby's ing back Chris Brown, and the cause we were defending champs," arms and was dropped in the end second was a diving catch for 14 Matvey continued. "That was the zone by Mansel Carter for a safety in yards late in the scrimmage. key." the second quaner, also directed a While the offense improved from A tight zone defense forced Big 65-yard touchdown drive in a spe­the previous scrimmmage, the Mac's to shoot from the outside, and cial series ofplays called for by Faust defense continued to dominate play they connected on only 37 percent 
Lead 3-1 Philly, Houston advance 
107-105 100-89 
PHILADELPHIA (AP)-Philadel-HOUSTON (AP) -Houston's phia's Julius Erving scored the last Moses Malone, contained by Kansas six points of the game as the 76ers City for three games, became a beat the Boston Celtics 107-105 dominating force once again Sun­Sunday and took a 3-1 lead in their day, fighting for 42 points and 22 best-of-seven National Basketball As-rebounds as the Rockets defeated sociation Eastern Conference final the Kings 100-89 to take a 3-1 lead in play.off series. their NBA Western Conference 
championship series. 





