-~-­
Heroes -page 6
' '
' 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1981 
Haig at UN 

Speech unveils strategies 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) from the policies of previous ad­private investment. Sc<.·retary ofState Alexander M. Haig ministrations. which had focused on .Yioreover, he said there should Jr. told the United Nations yesterday assistance from multilateral lending not be any help at all for nations that 
that the Soviet Union and Vietnam hanks, such as the World Bank, in encourage terrori~m and violence. are threatening all sovereign nations helping promote development of "We have no intention of provid~ and the U.N. itself by their interven­poor nations. ing foreign assistance, moral com­
tion in Afghanistan and Cambodia. Haig said there is still an impor­fort or the prestige of international 
Haig also unveiled a new Reagan tant role for such programs. But the political platforms to countries that administration strategy for promot­shift in emphasis was not likely to be foster international violence," he ing economic development of poor reassuring for the many poor nations said. Although he did not name any nations -a plan that puts greater whose private sectors are poorly countries, in the past he has cited 
emphasis on private investment and developed and which are regarded Cuba, Libya and Vietnam among na­less on government aid. as too poverty-stricken to attract tions in that category. 
With Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko in the audience, Haig had harsh words for the Soviet 
which could set the stage for a confrontation when he meets with the Sovkt leader here Wednes­day. 
Union -Air Force transport plane 
crashes, kills seven soldiers 
"One of the great dangers to the (U.N.) charter today and to develop­INDIAN SPRINGS AIRFIELD, Nev. were "orthopedic," such as broken ment itself is the willful violation of ( AP) -An Air Force C-130 transport arms or legs. the national integrity of both Af­plane carrying Army troops on a At the White House, deputy press ghanistan and Cambodia by the night training mission crash-landed secretary Larry Speakes said Presi­Soviet Union and Vietnam." Haig and burned early yesterday as it ap­dent Reagan had been informed of said in his first speech to the General proached a darkened desert air strip, the crash and "expressed regret" at Assembly. "Their behavior chal­killing seven soldiers and hospitali t z­the loss oflife. lcngt·s the ba-;ic rights of all ing 20 others. Wallace said the plane hit short of sovereign states." The four engine turbo-prop was the runway, skidded and started 
He said he hoped the day would carrying 68 people, including nine what he said was a small fire which never come when the world accepts crew members, when it hit the normally develops in that type of the idea that "might makes right." desert floor and skidded before cra'ih. But, he added, the blaze 
Gromyko and Soviet Ambassador bursting into flames about three­reached smoke grenades and flares to the United States Anatoly quarters of a mile short of the run­used on the mission and quickly Dohrynin sat quietly throughout way .at Indian Springs at 12:20 a.m. developed into "an ex/ tremely hot Haig's speech. Gromyko will deliver "The sky was aglow. the plane was fire." his own address to the General As­totally engulfed in flames," said Jes­The plane burned for about four sembly today. sica Hilt, 2'i, a helicopter rescue' hours after the crash, with flames 
llaig's words were received with nurse who flew to the scene. "There polite but uncnthusia'>tic applause. were a lot of men with arm and leg See CRASH, page 4 
llaig's meetings with Gromyko on fractures. It was miraculous that Wednesday and again next Monday there were not more serious in­will mark the highest level of con­juries." 
Improved relations 
tact yet between the Reagan ad­Several Air Force sources said the ministration and the Soviet runway lights at the remote landing leadership. strip about 4'i miles northwest ofLas 


ND boasts 12 mainland Chinese 
The purpose is to plan formal Vegas were shut off as part of the negotiations aimed at restraining training mission, but Air Force offi­United States and China it will now "experts" come from English speak­
By MICHELE DIETZ 

be ea'iier for students form the main­ing countries to China to help indeployment of medium-range cials refused to directly confirm or 
News Staff 

nuclcar missiles in Europe, although deny the report. land to enter universities in the ll.S. fields they arc not prepared to teach, Haig said he will raise other issues, "The aircraft wa'> illuminating its With the new leadership that usually English and American
This year marks a substantial in­including Afghanistan, Cambodia own landing, that's alii can say," said emerged within the Central Govern­literature. 
crease in the amount of students and Poland. lie said Sunday he will Lt. Col. Mike Wallace, an Air Force ment of the Peoples Republic of Bing-He Sun arrived at Notre
from mainland China attendingtell Gromyko that the Soviets must public inforaton officcr."We were Dame on Sept. 6 aftt·r a professor
Notre Dame. According to Kwang­not intervene militarily in Poland if using standard night operating tac­
from Pittsburgh filed tht· applkation
Tzu Yang Professor of Aerospacethey want improved relations with tics and I'm not at liberty to discuss for her in March and it went through
and .\1echanical Engineering, no 

the United States. those tactics." "fast and smoothly." When asked
mainland students attended the Uni­

Soviet troops that entered Af­The names of those killed were what differences she finds between
versity from 1949 to 1977. ghanistan to join the government's not immediately released. but the United States and mainland
This year there arc 12 students fight against :\1oslem rebels remain Wallace said he believed they were China, she commented that there is
from mainland China, last year there there almost two years later despite all Army personnel. A Nellis Air an efficiency here that China does 
were two, and the year before there 

an international outcry. Soviet­Force Base spokesman said none of China after October 1976, more stu­not equal. She also said that she was
wa'i only one. With the end of the backed Vietnamese remain in Cam­the 20 hospitalized wa:. in critical dents arc striving to enter graduate "impressed by peoples' readiness to
cultural revolution and with 

bodia where they ousted the condition, although some injuries and undergraduate programs in the help," and addcd,that we do not
strengthened relations between the 


previous communist government and installed a new one in January 
1979. 
fn unveiling the Reagan ad­
ministration's approach to pwhlems 
ofpoor and developing nations, Haig 
made clear it won't go along with 
demands by many U.N. members for 
a new international economic order 
ba.'it·d on greater distributior of 
wealth from rkh to poor nation~. 
"A strategy for growth that depends on a massive increa'ie in the transfer of resources from developed to developing countries is simply unrealistic," Haig said. 
"We do believe that our collective responsibilities for the future allow no more time to he lost in sterile debates and unrealistic demands." he added. ''The time has come for a reasoned dialogue with promise for the furure." 
Haig's stress on private help for 
poor nations represents a departure 
Student Senate approves committee's allocations 
ByBILLKOLB 
.Veu•s Staff 

The Student Senate last night approved the Senate budget com­mittee's allocations for the 1981-82 academic year. 
Representing 80 percent of the Student Fee fund, S130,000 will he distributed among the six major student organizations as follows: Student Union, S84,500; Student Government, 527,000; Hall Presi­dents Council; S9,400;Judicial Board, 5600; Off-Campus, 52, 500; An Tostal, S6,000. The remaining 20 percent will be divided among various student clubs. 
In other business, Off-Campus Commissioner Kathy Jurado urged the Senate to recommend that the University employ a full-time Uni­versity off-campus commissioner. Jurado said the University needs a full-time employee to collect information on off-campus housing conditions. The commissioner, she said, would answer complaints and help students find satisfactory housing. 
United States, but the competition is have people "crowding the streets" fierce. Zhiying Zhong, who arrived as in China. Sun is now living in the last October and is seeking his Ph.D. Grace-O'hara apartments. Hong in Engineering, said that several Wan from Peking, China is another people want to come to the U.S. but graduate student from the mainland, few are likely to get the chance. He now living in Pa'iqucrilla West. Hong added that it is even very difficult to Wan said that she chose Notre Dame enter universities in China, and al­because it is a Catholic and "more though there is no tuition, one can conservative" university. She gained get in only ifthey pass a entrance ex­admission into the University am. Only four per cent of those who through her father who came to the take the exam actually get accepted U.S, last year as a visiting professor to into the universities. He also do research at several universities, 
remarked that "once you choose including Notre Dame. which field you want to study in Zhiying Zhong an interpretor for China, you can't change your mind Wan said that Americans arc warm, like you can here." friendly pt'ople. When asked about 
Bing-He Sun, a graduate student in the dining hall food, Hong Wan said English from Tianjin, China, com­she misses Chinese cooking but that mented that their teachers arc a the food is good. They also said that little "behind the times," and added they were suprised at the "small "teachers will get old and die and animals, such a'i the squirrels, run­there might not be replacements, ning around", and that there are ··no causing a gap in the education sys­horns on the police cars in their tem." She explained that foreign country". 

Tuesday, September 22, 1981 -page 2



News Brie/§ 

~~===-=====~============================== 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
A grocery st ore "horse race" apparently 
went haywire and a New England supermarket chain may be left holding the bag. There were supposed to be only two $1,000 win­ners a week in the contest sponsored by the 31 Sampson's stores in Maine and New Hampshire, but Saturday's running brought dozens clamoring for payoffs. "The company's kind ofon the hot seat now," said Cecil Wilson, manager ofSampson's in Augusta. Sampson's offi­cials yesterday were trying to figure out what went wrong. One Sampson's employee in Fairfield said that five to ten minutes after Saturday's prerecorded horse race ended on television, eleven people were lined up in the store with tickets showing the winning pony's number. At other stores in Maine, there were unofficial counts of up to 2S people holding winning tickets, each good for a grand. It was unclear yesterday whether they would be allowed to cash in, and some customers were reported to be livid. Officials at 
Hannaford Brothers Co., the parent firm for the Sampson's stores, d.:dinc:;ll.l..!,lCOmment yesterday. "I don't have a whole lot to say, they haven't told us what td say." But he said the contest went into its second week yesterday and handed a reporter a ticket which could contain the winning number for next Saturday's taped horse race, which will also be shown on television. Roger Hoyt, president of Hannaford Brothers Co., said during the weekend he had not yet contacted the man who ran the promotional game. Hoyt also said he was not sure whether insurance would cover losses if the stores decide to honor the winning tickets. But Hoyt said the game "has been around many, many years and has a good reputation." Cashiers distribute tickets to customers, who can watch horse races on televi­sion Saturday or Sunday afternoon, or check for winning numbers in Sampson's markets. When it became obvious that there were too 
many winners in Saturday's race, Hoyt cancelled Sunday's telecast. He said he decided that "until we got things squared away, we'd better not run it." -AP 
At alliance headquarters in San Luis Obispo, 
spokesman Carl Zichella said, "We are certainly not surprised" by the NRC vote. "This is just another indication ofthe NRC showing it is more concerned with the utilities' profits than with protecting the public health and safety," Zichella said. "Diablo Canyon is the most outrageously sited nuclear plant since Humboldt Bay in 1962." The Humboldt plant, in Northrn California, was within 3,000 yards of three earthquake faults and that plant, also owned by PG&E, was closed down by the NRC in 1976. Pacific Gas & Electric spokesman Chris Piper has estimated it could take two weeks before loading can start, because workers first must check and calibrate the instruments used in testing and the reactor vessel must be scrubbed. The Al­liance, which has sponsored the blockade, said it would try to sur­round the plant before the tests can start. "We're going to do the best we can to take that plant by non-violent means and hold it," aid spokesman Dennis Collins. Despite the Alliance's requirement that protesters undergo eight hours of non-violence training, San Luis Obispo County sheriffs Sgt. Leon Cole said one ofyesterday's arrests involved a man carrying "a fully loaded .380 automatic pistol." The man, whose identity was not immediately released, was arrested in a group of demonstrators across from the main gate about 10:20 a.m. There had been no arrests Sunday, despite the participation ofabout S,OOO people from nearby communities in a one-day march to the plant, an event that was not involved with the Abalone blockade. Participants in the blockade have numbered from 300 to 1,400 
depending in part on how many were in jail at the time. Neither the California Highway Patrol nor the Alliance would estimate the num­ber of protesters remaining yesterday. -AP 
Mayor Maynard Jackson has endorsed Andrew Young in the Atlanta mayoral race, calling him the "best qualified candidate" for the job. Young was U.S. ambassador to the IJnited Nations for part of the Carter administration. jackson, who is completing his eighth year in office and cannot succeed himself, issued the endorsement yesterday during worship .>ervict:s at Sa!em Baptist Church. Eight candidates are on the ballot, hut many obser­vers believe the front-runners are Young. wt>o is black, and state Rep. Sidney Marcus, who is white. The city's n·mpartisan election is Oct. 
6. -AP 
Construction workers are back on the job 
after a two-month labor dispute thaL stalled about S2 billton worth of construction projects in the area. lln<ler an agree~nent ratified Sun­day by a vote of 1,99..:.-257, some s,oon members ofLocal I SO ofthe International Union of Operating Engineer~ will receive a 56. 'iS-an­hour increase in v.ages and ber.efits over the next 3S months, union officials said. Striking workers. who run bulldozers, cranes and other heavy equipment, returned to their jobs last week after a tentative st>ttlement wa;; announced. -AP 
Partly sunny and cooler today Highs mid ar.d upper 60s, tonight clear and cool with lows in the mid and upper 40s. Increasing clouds tomorrow with highs again mid to upper 60s. 
-AP 

AP Photo File 

Raquel Martinez performs in her alternativa, a ceremony which confirms her to full matador status. After 10 years offights as an apprentice, she is only the second woman to receive her alternativa, and tbe first woman in 23 years to appear,at Tijuana. ( AP) 
Bank manager Terry Olson and bis family were held hostage all night by a man waiting to rob the bank. When it opened, they were locked in the bank 

vault. They escaped unharmed, 
Desifin Editor.................. Deirdre ~1urphy 
Design Assistants ........ Patty Fox Suzanne La Croix 
Typesetter.. ........................ Stephen Brown 
Nett•s Editor.... ................ Cathy Domanico 
Copy Editor. ....... Dave Rickabaugh 
Featurl!s Layout ............. Anthony \X' alton 
Sports Copy Editor ............ Dave Dziedzic Trpist... .. ........ .Jeanine Hynes SJ•stems (,'ontrol .................. Bruce Oakley NO Dar Editor................ Karen ~1c~1ahon S.\JC Day Fditor. ... Cece Baliles Ad Desifin..... .. .... Fran, Shag. & Bob Photofirapher ...... Sue Quinn Guest Appearances . Wandering Arkies 
Graphics Control 
\1ullimcdia Trivia .\1an 
"Last night 1 had thl· strangc:st Jrc.:am 1 evc.:r tln:amed hc:forl·." 
but temporarily 

PATCO joined the Solidarity march Saturday, and met with cheers ofsupport from the other unions. PATCO President Robert 
E. Poli and his fiancee Donna Kirkpatrick were among the protesters. ( AP) 
Demonstrators march outside 4lbany Airport before the ar­ril1al ofthe South African Rugby Team Sunday evening. (AP) 

Coping With Graduate School­
-------------·-­
a Couples Survival Workshop 
Open to Notre Dame graduate student couples 
Saturday, Oct. 10 University Commons, Social Center Bulla Ave. 
9:00 to 5:00 Call Psychological Services (283-7336) bv Oct. 5 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief.........................................)ohn McGrath SMCExecutiue Editor .................... Mari Agnes Carey
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Managing Editor......................................Tom.Jackman SMC Neu·s Editor.. ........................Cathy Domanico
T_he qbserver is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Photo Editor................. ................................John Macor
Executit'e.News Editor .............................. Lynne Daley 
University of~<?tre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessanl\ 
News Editor................... ........................Tim Vercellotti
reflect the poliCies of the admmistration of either institution. The news IS reporre~l Business Manager. ................. Rich CoppolaNews Editor..................... . ....................... Kelli Flint 
as ~ccurately and as ?bJecuvely as possible. Ednonals represent the opinion of a Controller................. . ................... .Joe Multlur Senior Copy Editor ......... .............. Mary Fran Callahan
maJor~ty of the Edaonal Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views Adl'ertising Manager........ ............................. Mark Ellis of their authors.Column space is available to all members of the communit\·. and Sports Editor ......... :.......... .. ...... Michael Ortman Production Manager........ ..................... Michael Monk Features Editor ................................ ...Anthony Walton Circulation Manager ... ....................Tom MacLennan
the free expressiOn of varying opinions on campus, through letters. is enu1u~aged 

The Observer Tuesday, September 22, 1981 -page 3 

L-5 Society educates public about space possibilities 

By MOLLY RYAN 
News Stuff 
The: L-'; Sodc:ty will make: its lkbut on the: Notre: Dame: campus Wc:dnc:sday, Sc:pt.23 with a lecture: and slidc:show prc:st.·ntation at 7:30 
p.m. in the LaFortunt· Little: Thc:atrc:. 
This non-prot1t i~tc:rnational or­~anization is concc:rned with space: exploration, space: industrialization and human colonization and sc:ttle­mc:nt in space:. Tihamc:r Toth-Fc:jc:l, till' socic:ty's prc:sident, said the: purpose: of tht· duh is to c:ducatc: the: 


Panel recommends compensation 
WASIIIN<iTON {AP) A 
prt·sidc:ntial panel today n·com­
mc:ndcd that tlw l :.s. ~ovc:rnmc:nt 
pav each of tht· former American 
hosta~c:s in Iran S 12. 'ill pc:r day as 
compl·nsation for thc:ir ordc:al. 
If tht· proposalis approved by 
Prt·sidc:nt Reagan and Con~rcss, 
c:al'h of lhc: '>2 t•x-hoslagc:!-> hdd in 
l·aptivity for +h Jays woulJ he: c:n­
titlnl 10 S';,'; ';() 111 compn1sation. 
The: panel'~ report ~aid any com­pensation for the: hostagc:s would have: to he: approvc:d hy the: Con~rc:~s. The: rc:e<HllnH:nda!ions arc: hdn~ sc:nt to Reagan, who would have to approve them before suhmitring tht·m to Congress. 
public to what is possible: in space. 
Toth-Fc:jd statc:d that one: such possibility is usng space as a source: of c:nc:rgy. Mining astc:roids is one: in­stance: in which man can usc: space: to incrc:asc: the: c:arth's industrial capability. 
In vic:w of the earth's dwindling rc:sourcc:s, space: proponents em­phasize: the nc:c:J to look beyond the: earth's boundaries in search of al­ternate: c:ne;:rgy sources. 
The: L-5 Society, now in its 
seventh year of c:xistc:ncc:, dc:votes 
itsc:lfto exposing people: to the: limit­
lc:ss possibilities that space: offers. 
The socic:ty Jerives its name from a man named LaGr;~nge who dis­covc:n:d sc:vc:ral libration points be­twc:c:n the: earth :md the: moon \vhc:re gravity is cancc:!lc:d. The: fifth such point is Otic of the: tnany idctl locations for a sc:lf-suftkic:nt space 
colony. Toth-Fc:jc:l bc:lievc:s such a C<>lony will exist in the: ncar future:. 






Medieval Institute collects drawings 
The University of Notre Dame's Northern Italian drawings from the Mc:dic:val In~titutc:. with an initial 1';th and 16th centunc:s, but also in­grant of $';0,000 from the: Samuel H. dudes some: works by German mas­Kress Foundation, has begun a ters of the: period :ts we:II as works llf catalogue: of nearly 8000 drawings a mud1 latu vintage. Miss Davis is from the: Amhrosiana Library of the: retiring exc:cutiv~: vice: president Milan, Italy. of the: :ress Ft,undation 
The Mary M. Davis Collection of Tht: Ambrosiana Library was es-Italian art, as the: catalogue: will be: 
named, is composed primarily of 

Ac/ds representatives 
Saint Mary's discusses elections 
By CINDY COLDIRON 

News Stuff 
Members of the Saint Mary's Board of Governance: discussed the: upcoming Freshman Council c:lc:c­tion, which is schedulc:d for Thursday, at last night's meeting. 
Two new government represc:ntatives wc:re also added to the: board, SMC Student Body Presi­dent Eilc:c:n Murphy announced. Mary Dillon is the: nc:w Social Justice: Commissionc:r and Marcy Fc:hr is the: new publicity chairman. 
The: student rc:prc:sc:ntativc: for oft'­campu~ students is planning a lunch­con for all the: oft'-campus women in the: SMC clubhouse, two weeks from 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Salurdays. except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the studenls of Notre Dame and Saini Mary's Col­lege. Subscriptions may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by writing The Observer. P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer 1s a member of The Associated Preas. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Second class postage pa1d al Notre Dame. l~diana 46556. 
OFF-CAMPUS NITE at Senior Bar!!! Tues. Sept. 22 
9:30 to 12:00 


Bring Some Friends and join us at our first club night at Senior Bar. 

tablished in 1609 by Cardinal Federico Borromc:o and was named after St. Ambrose:, the patron saint of Milan. With c:ncouragc:nu:m !rom Pope: Paul VI, the: University of Notre l)amc: in 1962 began to microtllm the: enormous collection unt:c:r the direction of midinalist A.L. Gahrid. 
this Wednesday. 
The: hoard noted that Holy Cross W•:c:k, hc:IJ last wt·c:k, was such a success with its "Miss Holy Cros~ Contc:st" that some of the other dorms expressed an interest in having their own contests next year. Holy Cross is also sponsoring a speaker, James Killips, of Omaha, Ncb., who will speak on Oct. '; and6. Killips will present a speech on his own personal c:xpc:ric:ncc:s fightit;~g 
,............................................................................................................................. I 
i 
comes +a 
Lafortune Ball room 



9am-bprn 
\JednesdaY. and Thursday
Sept-23 ~ 2 '1 h Ul])~ SELECT lO~ 
LOW PRtCtS . 
HEAL THY PLANTS
I 
The: Mary M. Davis Collection in­
dudes drawings by DaVinci, Tin­loretto and Durer. According to Dr. Ralph Mclnery the dir.:ctory will serve: as "a useful complc:ment" to the institute's catalogue: of Manuscripts from the: Ambrosiana. 
cancer. 
Douhks tennis is going on right now in Saint Mary's intramural ath­ktics and co-ree volkyhall is hdd every Wednc:sday from 9 t•' 10:.30 
p.m. Flag football also starts this week. 
Regina Hall sponsored a com­puter dance: last Friday night with a fair-sized crowd attending. A Beach Party is planned for the dorm this Friday, Sept. 2';. 
i
:.............................................................................................................................. 
~ llic4arll's 1LI...\1H& IHE&lJ<&N~ Just Open 6 days a week/ ~ North 417 DIXIEWAY~­of across from Wend.y~ ~ '--·""""' Campus 277-0734 :: personalized Hair Desi![ns  

Tuesday, September 22, 1981 -page 4
The Observer 
Interference 





Solidarity unions ac01se Soviets 

Solidarity union locals responding 
m the Kremlin's furious accusations 
of anti-Sovietism, countered yester­
day with angry charges of Soviet in­
terference in Poland. 

The independent union summoned its top leaders to Gdansk for a strategy session today, where union chief Lech Walesa was ex­pected to preside over the drafting of an offcial response to the Soviet warning. 
The Soviet news agency Tass lashed out again yesterday. accusing the local chapters ofcreating "acute conflict situations aimed at over­throng the existing system," accord­ing to a dispatch from Warsaw. It said Solidarity was preparing to seize 
power on the assumption that "the 
authorities cannot offer serious 
resistance." 

Workers at a paper factory in 
Niedomice issued a sharply 
response yesterday to the Kremlin 
attack. "Setting a sovereign govern­
ment against a sovereign nation is a 
<;lear interference in the affairs of 
our country. Saying and writing the 
This student has found a tranquil place to study on the bank of  truth, showing it in the theaters and  
LakeMarion. Thefountain in the background is a new addition to  cinemas is what the (Communist  
the area this Fall. (photo by Susan Quinn)  Party) Central Committee and the  

On· 
campus


interviews 
Soviet Union's government call anti­Sovietism." 
"Solidarity won't let anybody scare it any more." Solidarity hospi­tal workers in Tarnow said. "Is this the threat of intervention ofour ally in Poland's internal affairs'" the workers' statement asked. 

Eastern Bloc attacks and criticism 
by Poland's ruling Communist Party 
have grown steadily harsher in tone since Sept. R when Solidarity adopted a resolution at its congress encouraging the formation of free trade unions in other bloc countrie~. 
Solidarity officials 'from Radom opened talks with the government here over deterioratmg food supplies in that central Polish ci~· af­ter union workers at the Radoskor shoe factory thfre threatened a mass hunger strike. 

Director of Security Terry explains parking regulations 
By FRANCES NOLAN 
News Staff 
Parking is the biggest pwblem the Secrity department faces every year. according to Glenn Terry, Direc­tor ofSecurity at Notre Dame. 
Quoting figures from last year's annual report, Terry said that in Sep­tember of 1980, 2,418 citations were issued. 
One problem this year was that 
parking decals arrived 

will be held on Septe111ber 30, 1981 
At General Foods we've mapped OL'r direction for the 80's­up! Building on our str0n9 b~se as one of the world's leading food companies. we plan to dramatically expand mto bold new areas of technology. 
We're creatmg a lot of opportunity for finance maJors who are developinCJ the1r career strategies for the 80's. We're coninG to campus to tell youaboutourfacilities in Chicago and the career paths that only a dynamic and growiog corporation like General Foods can offer And about varied 
• ass1gnments and professional challenges that come with t-Jroducmg such nationally-known products as Kooi-A1d. ShakeN' Bake and Maxwell House Coffee 
Depending on your area of interest and educational background. our discussion can center on such topics as: 
• Career success using our Management Process-a way to work with your managers to develop your career strategy...and succeed with it. 

• 
Opportunities in the area of FINANCIAL ANALYSIS­providmg a maJor impetus to successful financial guidance and innovative analytical services for cost. mventory and accountmg procedures. Your decisions on financial planning and action can have a major impact on divisional performance...and your career. 

• 
Opportunities for MBA'S-initial ass1gnments encompass such areas as cost accountmg. inventory and general accountmg 


If you're ready to launch your career with acompany that's geared up for b1g challenges and growth 1n the 80s. we want to talk w1th you' S1gn up now 1n the placement office for ani nterview. If unable to meet with our representatives. send a detailed letter or resume to: Mr. Greg Bekes. Sr. Personnel Assistant. GENERAL FOODS COR.PORA­TION, 7400 S. Rockwell. Chicago. IL 60629 
An equal opportunity employer m/f/h 
late and 
therefore, the Security Department had to issue them later than usual. 
Terry reminded students that be­cause there is not enough interior parking for everyone, the most im­portant rule for those involved to remember is that each person must park in their designated areas. 
Students should park in student lots. Pressure should not be placed upon gate officers because they have guide lines tofollow. Terry pointed out that students who try bending the rules place themselves and the officers in trouble. 
According to Terry, it -i5 very im­portant that people do not park along the road that lead5 to Sacred Heart Church. He pointed out that it 
is  a  no-parking  zone  and  when  
people ignore  this.  a  fire  hazard  
develops.  

Any person who feels that a ticket was isscd to them unjustly should. file an appeal with the Traffic Viola­tion Bureau. Rm. I 50 of the Ad­ministration-Building. 


Theatre announces first cast 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre announces the cast of Get­ting Out, by Marsha l"1orman. the first producti<m of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre season. directed by Dr.julieJensen. 
Mary Francell and Scott Thomas will serve as Co-Assistant Direc­tor/Stage Managers to Dr. Jensen Scenic design will be by Thomas Leff and costumes will be designed by El­lyn Brannick. The cast is as follows: Carl, Raul T Aportela; Ruby, Eileen Durkin; Mother, Susan Gosdick; Arlie, Heidi Lucke; Bennie, Joe Musemeci;Arlene, Rachel Patterson: Warden, Tom Melsheimer; Guard Caldwell, ,Javi Mulero; Doctor, Chris Tybeck;Ronnie, Jim Wolfe 
Getting Out is a drama concern­ing one woman's struggle with her past after being released from prison. 
The play opens in ()'Laughlin Auditorium on October 2. and rum October 3. R. 9 and I 0 


, ' ' Crash 
continuedfrom pap,e I 
Jeaping 20 to 25 feet in the air. The 
plane came down only about a half 
mile from a four-Ian~: highwa,· and 
earlv-morning driver~ gawked at the 
spectacular blaze. 
The C-3 was attached to the 463rd Tactical Aircraft \X'ing at Dyss Air Force Base near Abilene. Texas. The 

General Foods Corporation 
( ~·· 
·t~..., 
plane was taking part in a training exercist· involving the Armv's 9th InfantrY D1vis1on from Ft. Lewis . \X"ash.. to simulate Air Force/Army airlift operations in combat condi­
tions. 

-----~-------~----------------------------~------------~-------~--~--------·--------~-­
The Observer Tuesday, September 22, 1981 -page 5 
Not foolproof 




Weekend measures work well 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE dents from crashing ND victory a guest register. News Staff parties. The policy will be used again Oc­"By Saturday, people were almost tober 2 and 3. the weekend of the Notre Dame hall staffs see no automatically showing us their !D's Michigan State game. problems with the new ad­(to get into the hall)," said Flanner's Director of Security Glenn Terry ministrative directive requiring in Bro. Pete Mahoney, chairperson of said that security has not heard of part that NO-Saint Mary's students the Rectors Committee. "We any incidents of theft or vandalism 
present ID cards before entering the received good cooperation from the that may have occurred last Friday halls on home football weekend students." or Saturday night. ni~hts. The new directive dictates that "We would rather have the halls 
At a rectors' meeting last Monday only one door of any NO hall be un­autonomously run as long as the rec­ni~ht, the rectors unamimously locked from 7 p.m. to 2 a.m. on those tors want to exert that kind of con­praised the new policy for prevent· Friday and Saturday nights. At least trol." said Terry. Robbers, ing outsiders from roaming the halls one member of the hall staff must be however. did break into six rooms at and causing problems. present at the door to insure that on­Holy Cross Hall the weekend ofSept. 
The rectors themselves requested ly Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­I 1-13 and stole money and class Dean of Students James Roemer to dents and their guests enter the hall. rings. That incident, however. oc­draft the directive in an attempt to Students not known to the hall curred during the football game it­
redu.:e theft and vandalism, and to staff member on duty must present self when the halls are watched by a prevent undera~e hi~h school stu-an ID card to enter. Guests must sign member of Building ~ervices. The responsibility of implement­ing the new night directive lies sole­ly with each individual hall staff. In
High interest rates beat 

some dorms, the resident assistants watched the door, while in others the rectors were on duty at the door.

rtstng consumer prtces 

"It wasn't that big ofa hassle," said Cavanaugh RA Lou Reifschneider, 
WASHINGTON ( AP) -Amid all The biggest losers include adding that it's too hard to judge the the evils blamed on high interest homebuilders, Realtors, home sel­policy's effectiveness after only one rates is an unexpected blessing for lers and home buyers-all ofwhom weekend. millions ofAmerican savers who are are suffering because of record Several RA's said the policy is besting inflation for the first time in mortgage interest rates approaching more useful in dorms sponsoring years. 18 percent. Savings and loans are an­victory parties. At Zahm Hall, which 
With consumer prices rising other groap of major losers becz.use had a party last Saturday night. RA about 10 percent a year and interest they are stuck holding so many low­Paul Kosidowski said the policy rates on savings available at 1 7 per­interest mortgages while forced to "kept things under controL It's hard cent or higher, Americans who can oay top rates for new funds. to tell how many (outsiders) tried to set m<.>ney aside are pulling down The Reagan ;;dministratior:o a.lso is get in." the highest real rates of return on a loser because ofwhat high interest Farley's Rectre~s. Sr. Jean Lenz their savings in U.S. history. rates are doing to the president's said the policv worked well since all 
The interest-rate boon for people plan for balancing the budget by halls participated. "\Ve weren't who are lucky enough to have 1984. High rate~ drive up govern­preventing students from entering. savings and no need to borrow ment spending to pay interest on the We were just asking who they money reverses an economic trend federal debt while driving down were," she said. during the 1970s, when inflation government revenues because of a Another concern of the rectors, decimated savings because the rise slowdown in economic expansion according to Sr. Jean, is drinking on in consumer prices far outstripped that seems sure to result. the quads. The rectors, she said, interest rates. Savers also are buying Treasury don't object to students drinking in 
While lower-interest accounts are bills directly or buying bank certif­moderation in the dorms, but drink­still in wide use -such as passbook icates ofdeposit that pay rates based ing on the quads violates both Uni­savings paying perhaps S.S percent on Treasury bills. versity regulations and state law. -many savers now are earning far more by other means, such as money-market funds. 
Escort service for women 
So, while President Reagan, busi­ness groups and would be home­buyers lent the high cost of credit, 


begins after October break 
the nation's savers can take pleasure in their good fortune and hope inter­

By MARCIA BONICH last year's service was moderately est rates stay high. 
News Staff successful. it was underpublicized."Millions of Americans, par­
This year's goal is to convey the ticularly in the older age brackets, 
importance of the service to Notre are enjoying -perhaps for the first 
An escort service for Notre Dame Dame and Saint Mary's students. time in their lives -a high market 
and Saint Mary's women will begin Conway hopes to accomplish this rate of return on their savings," 
after October break. Brian Conway, through signs posted on-campus and President Reagan's s chiefeconomic 
Co-Security Commissioner, is in newsletters sent to Notre Dame and 
adviser, Murrav L Weidenbaum, 

charge of the service and explained Saint Mary's women explaining the said yesterday. 
that the service will escort women service. "There are winners and losers ers 
leaving the library from I 0 p.m. until Last year there was an attempt to from high interest rates," observes 
closing time. establish an on-call service for 24 Alan Greenspan, a New York invest­
Volunteers from male dorms at hour student escorts, but no such ment consultant who was the Ford 
Notre Dame will walk girls service is planned this year due to administration's chief economic ad­
anywhere on-campus, off-campus or lack of interest. Students interested viser. "However, there are many 
to Saint Mary's. in re-establishing the service should more losers than winners." Conway pointed out that though contact Conway. 
·. 

ANNOUNCING ... Travel Services Now on the Campus of St. Mary's College 
• 
Computerized Airline Reservations 

• 
Amtrak Tickets 


• 
Bus/Limo Tickets to Chicago 

• 
Tours and Cruises 

• 
Group Travel Services 



(219) 284-5606 

~source 
St. Mary's 

~Travel 
LeMans Hall--Lower Level 

Notre Dame Travel Office Located in Badin Hall (219) 236-2374 
I  £...~  Conditioner.  :  
I  ~?  Rt>g.SIS.OO  I  
1  Now slO" Complete 1  


Is Saint Mary's SecuriZJ' goirog to he forced to gh·e out tickets for illegal hike parking? (photo by Susan Quinn) 


i--RiVER-cifY-RECoiills--1 
1 Northern Indiana's Largest Selection of Albums & Tapes. 
I 

1 Why pay more any place else? I 
1 $l OO OFF'any regul~r •:ecord or tope with ad. 1
1 L1m1t 1 per person 1
I • • 
ExpiresOct.l0,1981 I 
I 
I 50970 US 31 North e Open tiII 1 0 every nightl13 miles North of Campus e ND/SMC checks cashed next to AI 's Supermarket up to $20 over purchase amount 277-4242 eRecord Crates availableL 
"just 5 minutes 
from 
school" 
\ 

Ttrn<"r l..111r, Soet1o Bnool 
"Hair lilgdoll

(Across from Martin's oa Sl Rll.. 2JI TUF.S~ WJ:D. 8:..10-5:)8 For All" THURS., FRI. 8:~:JO•SA T. 1:.10-5-..JO 
272-03 I 2 • 277-1691 
• • • • • • •ICOUPO,_ • • • • • •. 
1 For The Total Look . 1 
: C..d~~~ on a Styled Hair Cut, : I V '-" av Shampoo, Blo"· Dry & 
1 


The Knights of the Castle I
1 

277-1691 272-0312 I 
• • • • • ••CLIP AND SAVEl••-• •. 
Tuesday, September 22, 1981 -page 6








Features 
' 

The Art of Being Noticed 
l 
l
I 
' 
i 
j
;I 
Lynne Daley 
Features Writer 

Ever notice the lengths to which eople will go for a little attention? Last week, for example, a self­rofessed mayoral candidate in New ork City climbed to the top of the tatue of Uberty and scattered 
leaflets promoting his campaign to the gawkers beneath him. Now the mere fact that they were gawking is a tribute to his attention-getting skilL In New York City almost nothing is gawk-worthy. 
This guy was captured after a spell, and delcared mentally un­stable by the authorities. But he had had his time in the spotlight. 
Other equally strange acts also p readily to mind. How about the uman fly who climbed the Sears ower in Chicago this summer, 
aided by suction cups and ropes? He too was arrested, though not declared incompetant. 
And then there was the parac­hutist who last month landed atop the World Trade Center, for a lark. 
e received much media coverage, ight up to when he, too, was ar­
rested  by  the  ever-vigilant  NYC  
cops.  
The  three  people  listed  above  

share many common attributes: they are all men, they each performed at highly-visible heights in large cities, and they were all arrested. And, most importantly, they all received large, though brief, doses of public scrutiny. 
These out-of-the-ordinary en­deavors are not the exceptions to the rule, by any means. Many daredevils, or so-caled "freaks," are famous simply because they are wil­ling to risk their life for a fee and a tad pf applause. It's kind of difficult to believe that sword-swallowers, lion-tamers, or motorcycle trick­sters really love their work. 
But the same syndrome that makes them do what they do, like jumping over cars through a flaming hoop, is also at work on everyday people, in their everyday lives. 
How about here, at Notre Dame? How many people do you know who have "gone tunneling" through the underground steam tunnels. I've heard it's not that pleasant an ad­venture, but it seems to be some­thing that can make or break one's NO experience. 

And then there's dome-climbing, whereby the eager participant risl-:s life, limb and the pursuit of a Notre Dame diploma by breaking into the upper floors of the Administration Building. 
Other activities, like stealing food from the dining halls (yawn), sneak­ing a keg-containing car on campus, or -heaven forbid -breaking parietals, are all done regularly, and 
with  pretty  much  unqualified  
success.  
But  these  enterprises  can  get  

tiresome, and, face it, they're all so passe that they really don't provide the attention that a true adventurer really deserves. In case you're in­terested in becoming a hard-core gawkee,(I DO mean gawkee!) here 
are a few suggestions: For starters, get noticed. Wear 
something weird -make sure they 
know who you are. 
Be obnoxious. Try wearing a 

Michigan t-shirt often and make sure 
you're constantly humming Hail to 
the Victors. Or, if sports aren't your 
bag, walk into theology class about 
ten minutes late sporting a "God is 
Dead" t-shirt. 
(T-shirts are a really wonderful 

ploy for the novice gawkee.) 
Be nice. Ever notice that some of the people you hate the most are also some of the nicest people you know? Sometimes, just the right amount of sticky-sweetness is enough to mak~ a person vomit Find someo11e at the end of his/her rope and turn on the charm. They'll never forget you. 
Spread out. Let everyone know that you are there. Take up four (if you can do more, great!) seats at the dining hall, and never share a seat on the bus. The more people standing in the aisle, the better. Look defiant. Gawkees don't share their space ­ever. 
Be pushy. Cut in line -especially 

in the dining halL Take food you 
don't want. Use the wrong utensils at 
the salad bar, and don't return them 
to their proper places. Go back fo 
thirds and fourths. Don't be timid ­
use your elbows! 
Be different. Do the unexpected. Study -sitting down -at a football game. Play football at the library. Talk incessantly at Mass, but never open your mouth in a seminar class. If you do talk in class, only ask ob­vious questions, with even more ob­vious answers. 
Be outrageous. Run naked 

through public places. Make 
obscene phone calls to persons o 
your own sex. Shave your head. Tell 
sick jokes, but only at meaningfu 
moments. Put your whole body in 

cast but go to class anyway 
Threaten to torch a building o 
shoot an enemy. For this one, the s 
is the limit. 
As you can see, becoming a cer tified gawkee is easy if you have th right personality. And it gets easie with practice. So, don't delay -start on your own campaign today. 
But, please don't let me see you 

suctioning up the side of the library I or parachuting to the top of the do.ae. That's just plain old-hat. 


Heroes are hard to find 
Andy Rooney ­

Sports don't interest me as much as they once did and I don't know whether it's me or sports. Being, as I am, human, I think it's sports. 
I'm cooling off as a sports fan for a lot reasons but the biggest reason is that I'm getting to know so much about the stars ofsports that it's hard to idolize them as I once did. Babe Ruth was a little before my time, but every kid who followed baseball 
ly flawed human being. His faults 
would be better known today and 
he'd be harder to love no matter 
how many home runs he hit. 
The same would be true of the 

tennis player Bill Tilden and probab­
ly of the greatest athlete of them all, 
Jim Thorpe. They's all be hard to 
cheer for if you knew them as 
people. 
A lot of the best athletes are ;erk~. I think that's at the bottom ofmy dis­affection with sports. I don't know why I ever thought they were any nicer people than the rest of us but for some reason I asmmed the;r character wa~ comparable to their talent and it almost never is. 
player and in my fan's mind I endowed him with every positive at­tribute known to man. I have no specific evidence to the contrary, but I've been drsillusioned so often I'm now ready to believe that Frank is only humart. 
Last weeke11d I had a ~ood time ~ atching hours of the U.S. Open Tennis Tournament. I enjoyed watching it because the games were interesting and there were enough good gays to make it fun hopingthey 
beat the bad guys. There were lots of bad guys. 
I loved when Tracy Austin beat Martina Navratilova because Tracy seems so pure and innocent. I liked 
made herselfwonderfully detestable 
after her match with Tracy a few 
weeks ago when she came to the net 
aftt'r the match and uttered a few un­
utterable words to Tracy. We need 
sports figures we can hate but we 
have to have heroes and heroines , 
too, and that's what we're short of. 
When Jimmy Connors plays John 
McEnroe, you sit there hoping they 
both lose and , of l:ourse, you're 
bound to be frustrated. 
Wher• McEnroe played Vitas Gerulaitis, another New Yorker, I was pulling for Gerulaitis because I dicl.n't know much about him and , superficially, his manners were bet­ter than McEnroe's. McEnroe is such with the television microphone open for the world to hear, shouted one of the ultimate obscenities at the off1cial. I felt terrible about having spent several hours hoping he's win. 
The great athletes are alway 

revealing themselves in the new 
paper or on television as som~thin 
other than great people. They mak 
it tough f0r sports fans to love them. 
It's too bad because being a fan is 
good thing for its own sake, inde­pendent of the character of the per­son the fan is cheering for. The feeling I had for Gerulaitis was a per­fectly good emotion for me to enjoy and I'm sorry he and so many other 
when Babe was in his prime adored him. I doubt if Babe Ruth would bt: the same kind of hero today. He wa• a great baseball player but a serious-
If I'm going to follow a team or a player, Ililre to be able to bdieve my heroes are nice guys. Fc,r years I id~>lized frank Gifford as a botball Martina for a few years when she was a new defector but I no longer like her behavior on the court and I al­ways hope she loses. Pam Shriver 
an insolent brat he's wonderful to hate. When the match ended, Gerulaitis walked to the umpires stand and, 
athletes have ruined it for me by revealing themselves as being fal­lible humans, just like the rest of us or worse. 
2nd Chapter of Acts 
"You can't go to the movie theater and sec a love story, and I'm not talking about an erotic love story, but a real romance between a m:-.n and a woman, ant: not come out being in love, or <vanting to be in love." With such ~n explanation, Buck H-::rring, producer-manager of The 2nd Chapter ofActs, describes his idea of a good concert. He con­
i:nues, "We're really, in a sense, like 
trolling violinists walking down lover's lane with a couple that's mad­ly in love -and we're playing the music that is encouraging their romance. 
The couple is Jesus Christ and His Bride, the Church. And letting this image shape their music, The 2nd Chapter ofActs, presents a powerful concert in Christian rock style. Their staple and strength has been their fine-tuned vocals -the heart­tugging harmonies ofAnnie Herring, Nelli Greisen and Matthew Ward (all blood brother and sister ). Annie also supports with her piano work. 
In the last few years, though, Mat­thew has developed into a strong male vocalist. In concert, he now complements the group's soft rock harmonies with his own free-flying vocals, backed by a rangy lead guitar. 
In the studio. The 2nd Chapter of Acts has worked with a number of artists. The expertise of these various artists -Phil Keaggy and Michael O'Martian, the recipient of 3 Grammys this year for his work with Christopher Cross .has served to augment their music and live concerts. Their newest release features Kerry Livgren ofKansas. 
The Spiritual Rock of Notre Dame sponsors the return of The 2nd Chapter ofActs and A Band Called David to the Stepan Center at Notre Dame on Thursday. September 24th. at 8:00 p.m.. A standing-room-only audit-nee jammed the Center last fall on a Monday night. Admission to the concert is free. A free-will offering will be taken. Call (219) 2:H-53T' for more information. 

Ballet company to appear 
For three generations, Anna Pav­lova has represented all that is artis­tic and spiritual in ballet, and her impact on the world of dance is im­measurable. 
"The Pavlova Celebration." a tribute to the legendary ballerina on the centennial of her birth, will be presented Thursday, September 24 at 8:00 p.m. in ()'Laughlin Auditorium of St. Mary's College. Tickets for the performance arc 
S4.00 for the general public and 
S2.00 for students. 
The special "Celebration" is a recreation ofan evening ofballets all originally performed by Pavlova and her company in the early years of this century. Highlights of Thursday's program include two famous solos. La Nuit and California Poppy. which were retrieved and set from rare film footage of Pavlova herself. Also included in the program will be a concert version of "Giselle.". 
Starr Danias, principal ballerina for the Joffrey Ballet. will dance the roles of Pavlova in Thursday's program. Miss Danias has earned wide acclaim for her performances in a variety ofballets. many ofwhich were created for her. 
As a soloist with the American Bal­

let Theatre. Miss Danias has danced 
leading roles in "The Sleeping 
Beauty," "Giselle." and Glen Tetley's 
"Lc Sacre du Printcmps" as well as 
other classical and contemporan· 
works. Miss Danias was also ti:atured 
in the role opposite \1ikhail Ban·sh­
nikov in the film _"The Tur~ing 
Point." and ·was also the first 
ballerina ever to appear on the na­
tionally televised Academy Awards ceremony. Ruth Page. the American dancer and Chicago-based ballet teacher. 
was a member of P.avlova's company in 1918. She has staged three of the divertissements to be presented in the program including "Polka Piz­
zicato,"  "Idylle,"  danced  to  the  
Minute  Waltz  by  Chopin.  and  
"Autumn Bacchanale."  

Muriel Stuart. from the School of American Ballet. was also a member of Pavlova's company and she has restaged two Pavlova signature pieces. "The Dying Swan." and "The Dragonfly... Irene Fokinc. god­daughter of Anna Pavlova. has also choreographed two ballets for th performance: "Les Preludes" an 'The Fairy DolL" 
A full company of dancers wil support \1iss Danias in "The Pavlov Celebration... Gregory King. former ly of the National Ballet of Canada The Joftrcy Ballet. and the _los. Greco Dance company will partnc her in several of the dances. as well 
as special guest stars. 
The Observer Tuesday, September 22, I98I -page 7 


Record Reviews: Best ofSummer '81 
Southside Johnny and the As­buryJukes Live -Reach Up and Touch the Sky 
There is a reason why Southside Johnny Lyon's name appears first on the marquee wht·n he and the As­bury Jukes hit the road on one of their endless tours; Southside is the whole show. But the band's recent live album, Reach Up and Touch the Sky, doesn't show that to be a detri­
ment in the least Of course, we don't have the great visuals of Southside crao;hing drunkenly about the stage, knocking over the drums or dousing his piano player with beer (as he did when I saw him on the 'RO tour), but we do have his im­peccable sense ofhumor and raspy R & B shout to sustain us through four sides. 
We mustn't forget the music here, although the Jukes arc net exactly memorable on this album. They piay every song, eve~· note, just as it ap­peared on the studio disc. Horn 
charts are rarely altered at all, anrl though songs like "I Don't \\'ant to Go Home," "Trappt·d Again" and "All I Want is Evt:rything" appear as tight, speeded-up versions here, on­ly Southside's bluesy inversions and forgotten lyrics provide any sort of interesting distraction. A 7:35 ver­sion of "Stagger Lee" is designed to shoV~< off the band's chops, but lead guitarist Billy Rush's '>ole> is politely nondistiuct, a doubk sax jam is 
ChakaKhan 
Whatcha Gonna Do For Me? 
Although this album has done fair­ly well on the charts, it has been strangely overlooked by critics and radio sta!ions. The album represents yet another stage of development in the career of Chaka Khan, who is 
trying to change her image from that of a sexpot soul-rocker to a more elegant jazz singer and stylist While Khan has the vocal talent necessary for the switch, she has a lot to Jearn about nuance and style. But this criticism is valid only if the album is considered jazz, which it is not. What this album is, however, is very good pop-soul, and in this category, it is probably the best release of the summer. Produced by Arif Mardin with a~sistance from the best studio musicians L.A. and New York have to offer, Whatcha Gonna Do For Me is a showcase ofsophisticated arrange­ments and polished playing. High­lights include the title song, which is a seductively funky vamp accented by the horns of Randy Brecker and Tom Scott, what has to be the hot­test version ever of"We Can Work It Out," a frequently covered Lennon­McCartney tune that is driven by 
Tom Petty & the Heartbreakers 
Hard Promises 
Tom Petty did indeed make some hard promises. Exceeding even his own expectations, Petty produced 1979's multi-platinum Damn the Torpedoes, a finely composed album of barely restrained fury set *J a rocking heat. So it's unfortunate that Hard Promises doesn't quite deliver the excellence we'd come to expect after his first three alhur.1s. hut it 'itill stands as one of the ~Tar's best. 
Tht· frustratiun of legal battles seeped through the groovt•s of Tor· fJedoes, in the bitterness of "Refugee." the caustic edge of"Here Comt"s .\1y Girl... or the desperate hope of "Even the Losers." Hard 
Promises. without that sort ofangst. seems to lack direction. perhaps even indkating Petty has achit.:\-ed a measure of complan·ncc after his unadulteratt"d success. Which is not to say the album is a failure -hard­ly. "The Waiting" is a findy crafted single in the manner of "Don't Do .\k Likl· That." and "Letting You Go" features some unexpectedly at­
tractive  harmonit's  from  the  
Heartbreakers within an  appealing  
melody line.  

It's another example of Petty's \\Til-expressed wistfulness. which 
"It's For You" arc country-tinged Pat Metheny and Lyle Mays pieces that don't really break any As Falls Wichita, So Falls Wichita new ground for Metheny or Mays, Falls This album gets my vote as but are interesting. Another high­the most interesting "jazz" release of light of side two is "Estupenda the summer. It is increa~ingly dif­Graca," which finds Metheny and ficult to speak in terms of jazz when Mays extemporizing on "Amazing discussing the younger musicians, Grace" while percussionist Nana and Pat Metheny is probably the Vasconcelos sings in Portugese. But, primary example of this difficulty. the significance of this album stems Metheny's music is not really jazz. from side one, which is devoted to it's definitely not rock. On this al­the title composition, a rambling im­bum there is a little of everything pressionistic piece that sounds like from bluegrass to new music (term nothing I have ever heard before. 
as applied to composers like Stew This piece sounds as if Chopin. sounds (human voices, birds, and Reich and Philip Glass). Metheny Debussy, Mike Oldfield, Pink Floyd, thunder) gives the piece an emo­and Mays bring offthis diverse selec­Holst. Tomita, Steve Reich, and tional depth which I havt" never tion credibly. with consummate Brian Eno all got together and heard before. None of the sources professionalism and youthful developed it as a team project. I are that original. Metheny and Mays energy. Side two of the album con­know of no other way to describe it. don't really try to hide them either,
"""'"blc, •nd jod Gumo'inj 
tains the standard Metheny fare. The piece, in four movements. is al­but it is not the quality ofthe sources
piano break sounds like a soloist at/ well-played intelligent and melodic ternately beautiful and chilling, and that makt"s this piece important and 
Shakey's. I 
composition~ that utilize the diver­leaves the listener haunted and wan­unique, it is the combination of
Still, the album has an undeniable sity of the composers. The mo~t ting something else. The use of or­them into something completely
appeal because it captures the flavor 
interesting ..:omposWon is probably chestral synthesizer (Mays gets new. When people speak of fusion,
ofa prototypical Eastern bar band in 
"September Fifteenth," a Jvricallv some very natural tones. which al· perhaps this is what they were
its element -on stage. Side four 
beautiful piece dedicated .to th~ most sound like a symphonr) talking about.
pays off Southside's long overdue 
memorv of Bill Evans. "Ozark" and various percussion, and taped -Anthony Walton
debts to Sam Cooke with an at­
t~ctivemeilleyw~chproveseither~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 


A) Sam Cooke had no range, or B) 
Jaco Pastorius There is only one example ofthis in­
Southside just may have some sin­
Word OfMouth dulgence on the new album, Crisis,
ging ability. "Havin a Party" raucous­
This is a surprising album from the and it is interesting as an example of 
ly closes the album, a direct 
man who is considered the best and technical possibilities but does not 
reminder that, after all else, these 
most innovative electric bassist in hold up to repeated listening. But 
guys are a party band. And Southside 
jazz today. Pastorius has gained fame that's the only moment on the album 
Johnny is a good man to have at your 
as a member of Weather Report, and that is not both impressive and 
party. 
has shown , his virtuososity and ver­enjoyable. There is something for 
-Tomjackman 

satility in side gigs with Joni every typt' of Pastorius fan, whether 



Mitchell, Pat Methcnv, and various your preference he for Weatht'r would have thought that Pastorius other artists. Pa~toriu~· first two solo Report-like electronic jazz. virtuoso would be one of the tine~t arrangers albums (Jaco, on Impmvising Ar­bass playing in a credible context, or for mainstrt·am? "Liberty City" and tists, and jaco Pastorius, on Epic) (the most surprising and in the end. "Three Views Of A Secret" are both were marred by uneveness and inac­most satisfying aspect of the album) masterpieces of orcheMration and cessibility, hut they showed flashes straight. mainstream big band shading. the tone colors both subtle of brilliance that promised better composing and arranging. For and emotional. ("Three Views" is things in the future. Word OfMouth Weather Tkport fans. there is johnny especially interesting bt·~·ause it was lives up to this promise, as Pastorius and Mary, a long piece wh1ch previously recordt·d in an electronic has eliminated most of the develops slowly and quietly, f:r>ish· version by Weather Report. The two obscurity, and has matured enough ing in a typical all-out jam. There are v·:rsions give interesting contrasts as an artist to allow his compositions other interesting momt"nts in tlH: on the differences and similarities of to control his technique. In the past, dectronic. including a moment fusion and mainstre:-m. ) My only it has seemt"d as if many of Pastorius' where Pastorius plavs the bass Jikl· a gripe is that ther~· 01re no credits on compositions were merely vehicles flamenco guitar, complete with the album, so the music remains to show off his awesome c<Jmmand runs and flourishes that Montoya or anonymous. But, perhaps that's what of the bass, and after the second or DeLucia would be proud of. But it is Pastorius wanted. Overall, a very 
third sixty-fourth-note ba~s riff. the the acoustic big hand side of the al­~:urprising and sati~fying release. 
listener would become bored. bum that is most interesting. Who -Anthony Walton features solos by Herbie Hancock, !=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~==~~~~=~~~~=~~~~~=~~=~~~~ Dizzy Gillespie, and through a studio 
XTC pieces ofcrap. hut that doesn't mean trick, Charlie Parker himself. Fusion 
Black Sea it isn't a great album. It is. XTC is 
is often talked about and seldom ac­
XTC is one of a group of British playing some of the finest power
hieved, but this song is an example 
new wave bands which are super­pop/rock you can buy today, and 
of what can be accomplished by 
stars in England, but unknowns in Andy Partridge, the group's brains,
combining the talents of forty years 
the States. Other groups on this Jist writes witty, perceptive lyrics
in a contemporarv wav. This is one 
include the jam, Gang of Four, the which far exceed 99 percent of 
of the best pop-~oul .songs of the 
Specials, and the late lamented Joy what's being written in this country 
year, and definitely worth the price 


Division. Some, like Paul Weller's today.
ofthe album. The rest ofthe album is 
Jam. want to keep it that way. not Still. the hand is mystified by its launching in search ofa I l-2. And the not as good, but it stays on the turn­
wishing to bt" attacked as sellout~ to inability to sell albums in the U.S., al­finest comes first: side one openstable. Overall, an impressive effort. 
America, as the Clash have been though tht' Clash's Mick Jones has with Partridge shouting himself 
-Anthony Walton 

observed that American kids aren't hoarse on "Respectable Street," as
called. XTC. however, wants to make it big here, and Black Sea as politically aware as British kids. he mercilessly slashes away at subur­bia, while the rest of the hand rocks
proves decisively that they should. That doesn't mean a song like Originally. Black Sea was Partridge's "Generals & MajorS," a furiously. This is the type of album, 
anilable only as a Virgin import. but direct hit on the war mentality ofthe like The Wild, the Innocent and the military brass, shouldn't he ap­E Street Shuffle, which is redis­
RSO finally pickt"d it up and got it covered after the hand finally breaks
out to stores late last spring. It got no preciated though. "Living Through through. (;et it now, before they jack
airplay of course, competing against Another Cuba" is another superb such true artists as Rush, Judas composition, punctuated by rim the record prices again. Priest, REO and countless other shots sounding like a Russian missile 
-Tomjackman 

MUes Davis Fvans, john Coltrane, Chick Corea, The J1an With The Horn Herbie Hancock, Keith Jarrt·tt, occasionally turns inro :m anrrr slap 
People have been waiting for this Wayne Shorter, et at) were in Davis at his departing lover, as is the case 
album for seven years. Yes, that's bands. In view of this history, the in "The Criminal Kind.' augmented 
how long it's been sincl :vliles navis new album does not stand up to the h\· Pett\''s mock-D\'Ian sneer. But he 
last released an album of 'lt'W Davis legacy and is a disappoint­d;>es it .best in "A 'woman in Love." 
material. :-.Jo album could live up to ment. There isn't anything really With ace sideman Duck Dunn's 
the kind of expectations that were new here, and none of the players quiet bass figure slinking beneath a 
created over that period oftime, and (except Miles) arc outstanding (at spare arrangement. Petty's pinched 
the fact that the artist involved is the least not yet). If, however, the album \'Ocal is painfully on target. and 


.\1iles Davis. the mystique and is taken as a single event, and a guitarist .\-like Campbell's piercing 
pressure surrounding the release are reintroduction, it b not as dis­cry in tht· refrain provides perfect 
further magnified. So, it becomes appointing, and has its moments. Time" and "Shout" providing othe counterpoint. 
very difficult to vkw the album with Miles the trumpet player is (as moments of interest. "Shout" is get­Of course. the rockers are ht"re 
any kind of objectivity. But I'll try. usual) outstanding. His tone is intact ting a lot ofairplay, and is sophistica­too. and they show his tendency to 
Miles has been on the cutting edge (after rumors of lip troubles) and he: ted radio music, hut it seems use a call-and-response style in the 
of every new development in jazz plays with his customary under­rudimentary for an artist of the stat­verses. They work. hut not toward 
since 1947, and most of us were stated fin:. That's a contradiction in ure of Davis. In the end, The Man an obvious end. Clearly. Petty is one 
expecting the usual Davis· redefini­tt"rms, but the only way to describe \Vith Te Horn can only he taken as a of the finest American mainstream 
tion of jazz. Davis was instrumental Miles. The compositions are promise of thirygs to come, because rockers active today. But maybe he 
in the development ofcool and hard generally pedestrian, yt"t they serve Miles is back in action his chops an· needs to be angry to write his best hop, and singlehanded started their purpose as vehicles for im­intact, and we couldn't rt·ally expect stuff. electronic jazz. Just about every provisation. "Aida" and "Ursula" genius the first tim(' around. -Tomjackman great player the la'it thirty years (Bill stand out from the rest, with "Fat -Anthony Walton 


~j7()~tScjEJ==~==i=~~~~~S========~=====================Tu=e=sd=a=y=,s=ep=t=em==be=r=2=2,=1=9=8=I==p=a=ge=8~ 
by The Obserz•er and The Assudated Prer.r 
Lotterywinnershave until this afternoon at 4 p.m. to pick up their tickets for Saturday's Purdue game. Tickets not claimed by that time will be forfeited. Tickets may be picked up at the Stu­dent Union Ticket Office and Record Store. -The Observer 
Members of the Notre Dame women's 
Fastpitch Softball Club are reminded that fall workouts begin today at 4 p.m. on the field next to S<.nior Bar. Pitchers and catchers have practice today, infielders tomorrow and outfielders on Thursday. A full-team workout is scheduled for Sunday at 1 p.m. Anyone still interested in trying out for the team should contact Karen Alig at 7401 as soon as possible. -The Obseroer 
The NROTC Charity six-miler is scheduled for this Saturday at 10 a.m. Anyone can register for the event at the NROTC Building between 8 a.m. and 4:30p.m. daily. Pre-registration is 55; S7 the day of the race. Proceeds from the race will be donated to local agencies for the handicapped. -The Obseroer 
The N.D. soccer team tied Ohio St., 2-2, Sunday at Columbus, Ohio. The game was tied at the end of regulation play, and neither team was able to score in either of the two overtimes. Notre Dame scored first. After only 6:10 had elapsed, junior Mario Manta tallied for the Irish, assisted by juniors Mike Sullivan and Jay Schwartz. The Buckeyes scored the next two goals. But with 1:20 left to play in regulation, senior Ed O'Malley scored an unassisted goal to even the score. During the two overtimes, four Notre Dame shots hit the OSU goalpost. Overall, the Irish outshot the Buckeyes, 24-5. The game was plaggued by 85 play stoppages, including 71 fouls. Notre Dame is now 5-0-1 on the season. The Irish travel to Wheaton for an 
afternoon game tomorrow. -The Observer 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL CONFERENCE East W L Pet. PF Philadelphia 3 0 1.000 57 Dallas 3 0 1 000 91 N.Y. Giants 2 1 667 47 St. Louis 1 2 .333 64  PA 27 48 38 80  Sunday's Results Cleveland 20, Cinc1nnati 17 Minnesota 26. Detro1t 24 Miami 16, Houston 10 PiMsburgh 38, N.Y. Jets 10 Atlanta 34, San Francisco 17 St. Louis 40. Washington 30 San Diego 42, Kansas City·31 Chicago 28, Tampa Bay 17 Denver 28, Baltimore 10 Los Angeles 35, Green Bay 23 N.Y. Giants 20, New Orleans 7 Oakland 20, Seattle 1 0  Today's Games St. LOUIS (Forsch 8-5) at Chicago (Bird 4-4) PiMsburgh (Bibby 5-3) at New York (ScaM 4-9) Philadelphia (Ruthven 11-5) at Montreal (Rogers 10­7), n. Atlanta (Perry 7-7) at Houston (SuMan 9-8), n. Cincinnati (Seaver 12-2) at San Diego (Eichelberger 8-6), n. Los Angeles (Valenzuela 13-4) at San Francisco (Whitson 5-8), n. AMERICAN LEAGUE East w l Pet. GB  
Washington  0  3  .000  47  83  Yesterday's Results  Detroit  25  16  .610  
Central  Dallas 35, New England 21  Boston  24  16  .600  5  
Detroit  1  2  .333  71  71  Milwaukee  24  18  .571  1.5  
Green Bay  2  .333  56  75  Baltimore  21  18  .538  3  
Chicago  2  .333  54  61  New York  21  19  .525  3.5  
Mtnnesota  2  .333  49  81  Toronto  19  18  .514  4  
Tampa Bay  2  .333  48  60  Clevel~md  19  22  .463  6  
West  West  
Atlanta Los Angeles San Francisco  3 1 1  0 1.000 2 .333 2 .333  92 72 62  34 73 75  Second Hall NATIONAL LEAGUE  Kansas City Oakland Minnesota  22 19 20  18 18 21  .550 .514 .488  1.5 2.5  
New Orleans  1  2  .333  30  64  East  Texas  18  20  .474  3  
AMERI~AN CONFERENCE East  St. LOUIS Montreal  W 22 21  L 17 19  Pet. .564 .525  GB 1.5  Chicago SeaMie California  16 16 13  24 24 25  .400 .400 .342  6 6 8  
Miamt Buffalo Baltimore New England N.Y Jets Cincinnati Houston PiMsburgh Cleveland San Diego  W L Pet. 3 0 1 000 2 1 .667 1 2 .333 0 3 .000 0 3 .000 Central 2 1 .667 2 1 .667 2 .333 2 .333 West 3 0 1.000  PF PA 66 27 80 23 42 91 52 77 40 100 75 71 46 39 81 77 3770 114 68  New York Chicago Philadelphia PiMsburgh Houston Cincinnati Los Angeles San Francisco Atlanta San Diego  20 17 17 16 West 26 23 22 21 20 13  20 21 22 24 14 17 18 18 19 29  .500 .447 .436 .400 .650 .575 550 .538 .513 .310  2.5 4.5 5 6.5 3 4 4.5 5.5 14  Yesterday's Results Boston 9, Milwaukee 3 Detroit 5, Baltimore I Oakland at Toronto. ppd. rain Cleveland 5, New York 0 Minnesota 7, Kansas City 2 Texas 4, SeaMie 1 California 6. Chicago 3 Today"s Games Milwaukee (Vuckovich 13-4) at Boston (Ojeda 6-2). n. Detroit (Schatzeder 6-8) at Baltimore (Flanagan 8-u). n.  
Kansas City Oakland  2 2  1 1  .667 .667  87 63  85 29  Yesterday's Results  Oakland ((McCatty 12-6) at Toronto (St1eb 9-1 0). n Cleveland (Barker 7-7) at New York (RigheMi 5-2), n.  
Denver  2  1  .667  47  30  St. Louis 2, Chicago 0  Minnesota (Williams 5-8) at Kansas City (Jones 5-1),  
Seattle  2  .333  44  57  Montreal 1, Philadelphia 0  n.  
New York 4, PiMsburgh 3  Seattle (Clay 0-6) at Texas (Butcher 0-0), c.  
Thursday's Results  San Otego 6, Cincinnati 0  Chicago (Baumgarten 5-8) at California (Moreno 0­ 
Philadelphia 20, Buffalo 1 4  Only games scheduled  1), n.  




Classifieds 
Male roomate(s) needed to share three
NOTICES 
bedroom house across from campus. 
$100/month plus share of utilities. Call USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED. 8700. SAT.. SUN. 9-7. CASPERSON. 1303 BUCHANAN RD.. NILES. 
IMPROVE YOUR GRADES! Research catalog -306 pages -I 0,278 topics. 

WANTED 
Rush $1.00. Box 25097C, Los Angeles. 90025. (213) 477-8226. 
NEED EXTRA INCOME? DO YOU LIKE NEED RIDE TO HOUSTON TEX. FOR SALES? DO YOU HAVE YOUR OWN OCTOBER BREAK. CALL CHRIS AT CAR? If so. you could become a sales­1678 ANYTIME, WILL SHARE USUAL man selling microcomputers and related 
software programs in the Michiana area. ATTENTION!!! Any one interested in Hours are flexible to fit your schedule. organizing an N.D. SCUBA DIVING club Work when you have the time. Call Carl please contact Rob at 289-5317 Larsson at 233-9922 for more Informa­
tion. COLLEGE BOWL Organizational meeting THURSDAY at 7:00pm, CCE­TAX ACCOUNTANTS, ACCOUNTING 
ROOM200. MAJORS!! Need extra income? Would you like to work a couple of hours a weBk and earn good money. Call Carl Larsson at 233-9922 tor more information 

LOST/FOUND 
UNIVERSITY CLUB HAS OPENING FOR LUNCH DISHWASHE'l. HOURS: 11 :30-2:30 MON. -FRI. HOURLY 
LOST: One Quartz Seiko watch. The RATE. APPLY IN PERSON; 9 AM.-5 round watch was lost on Sept. 5, at P M. NO PHONE CALLS. PLEASE Corby's or ND Ave. and has great sen­timental value. Reward offered. Call 277-RIDERS needed PURDUE weekend, 4681. leave Thurs. or Fri. 3053 
LOST: 7-IRON, CHI-CHI RODRIGUEZ Need nde back to ND !rom MI.\MI of Oh,o TOURNAMENT (NORTHWESTERN). Sun 27th Jenny 41-45J7 PLEASE CALL 1771. 
LOST:set of keys in front of Farley Hall 
I 
Tuesday night. two key cha1ns aMached · with total of nine keys. They are needed desperatly. call3887. FOR SALE 72 CHRYSLU NEWPORT 49000 Ml EXC. CO,<D. $1000 SCOTT-­

LOST, a red N.D. notebook in NO'Ih 4204.
Dining Hall E/F lines last Monday. Need badly. call Kevin at 1798 
FOR SALE: 1964 BUICK-$125_call 283-1611 "Iter tOr M.
Found: on Mon. 9/14 between P.E. & 
P.W.. wnstwatch, half band mrssing. To FOR SALE: 110 LB. WEIGHT SET, 2identify and claim, call8058. 
DUMBELLS AD BARBELL INCLUDED \ND CNE !-'ADDED BENCH. BRANDI LOST A BLACK CONTACT CASE IN NEW (HONEST) MAKE OFFER. CALLTHE AREA OF THE ACC... PLEASE CALL GORDON AT 277-3617 282-1546 ArTER< P.M 
MUST SELL. .84 carat diamond engage­Lost: Medallion with rnr.cripti0n on bac1<. If ment nng. Appraised at $4,160. Will ac­found please contact Dan at 2v4·85 I 8. 
cept best offer. Call287-8267.
Rewdrd. 
PLANTS PLANTS PLANTS Collcg1ate Plant Fa1r comes to ND LaFortune Ballroom 9 to 6 this wednesday and Friday 

[FOR 
RENT 
PLANTS PLANTS PLANTS 
STEREO AND LOFT RENT TO OWN A COLOR TV OR STEREO:Juliette Phono/8-Track &STEREO CALL SUN APPLIANCE 291­Speakers:Good Condition: Just Cleaned5112 
& Serviced. LOFT:Excellent Material & Construc­
UGLY DUCKLING RENT-A-CAR From tion;Ftts Best in Rooms like Keenan &$8.95 a day and 8 cents a mile. Phone Stanford:Can be laken apart. stored, and259-8459 for reservations. 
used again follow1ng year. If interested. questions. call 272-2578. 
One bdrm. apt., turn.. reasonable rent. call287-5361 alter 6p.m. 
1974 PLYMOUTH DUSTER Slant Six, Automatic, Power Steer,
NOTRE DAME APTS. 1/3 or 2/3 su1te Cruise. Tape. Motor excellent condition.
sublease available. Close to ND call Caii289-0t23.
DAVE at 288-4170 ANYTIME 
RECENTLY AVAILABLE ONE AND THREE BEDROOM APTS ONE BEDROOM HOUSE 234-2626 


TICKETS 
Student housing, clean, sale, laundry. kitchen, rated supenor $100 1ncludes all. Penn St. ticket wanted please call Donna 291-1405. at677t. 

NEED 2-4 GA TIX FOR ALL HOME FOOTBALL GAMES. CALL ART AT 1593. 
DAD IS WALKING FROM TACOMA WASHINGTON FOR USC GAME! MUST GET 2 TIX! HE HAS ALREADY STARTED WALKING! CALL BILL AT 1678. OR PAUL AT 1670 
Desperately need 2 FSU AND 2 USC TIXS ! Money is no object ! Call Steve at 8265 
HEY!!! I NEED GA TIX FOR ANY HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL DAN AT 288­6251 ANY TIME AFTER 6. 
I need 3 or 4 GA tickets for the Mich1gan State ga'Tle. Callt222 and ask for Peter 
PLEASE HELP!! Need 2 or 4 Penn St. GA's. Will pay big bucks. 1 142 
NEED U.S.C. STUDENT TIC.<ETSI!! B'G BUCKS!!! CALL JIM 6802. 
NEF:D 2 MSU GA TICKETS. WILL PAY TOP PRICE. CALL 28-2088 EVIONING3. 
HEY YOU OUT THERE IIIII YES YOU IIIII! I fii!:ED MANY GA'S TO THE NAVY GAME. IF C.AN HELP, OR JUST f'EEL LI"E TALKING TO A PRElTY GIRL CALL6772. 
Need 4 MICH ST tix. Please Call I 827. 
Need Penn Stele and USC ticket•. Price no Object Call Jim 1163. 
2 GA FLORIDA SlATE TIX NEEDE~ BADLY, MONEY NO OBJECT. Bob 234­04td. 
NEED MSU TIX. Will pay$$$. Bill8927. 
USC STUDENT TIX NEEDED Call Dave at 1696. Make mucho buckolas. 
HELP! NEED GA TIX FOR MICHIGAN STATE GAME CALL MARIANNE 277­IC99. 
NEED GA TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT­BALL GAME. CALL CATHY 277-2244. 
Have 2 USC and 2 MSU GA Will trade for FSU tix. Call Ed 1208 
I NEED 2 G.A MICHIGAN STATE TIX!! WILL PAY$$$ CALL JIM 4642 
NEED USC TIX. ONE STUDENT AND TWO GAs. CALL CHRIS AT 1678 
NEED 2 NAVY AND 2 MICH. STATE GA TICKETS CALL LARRY-1 049 
PLEASE!!! NEED 2 TICKETS (GA) FOR FSU AND GA TECH WilL PAY BUCKS CALLJOE 8866 
Need 4 GA tickets for any bome game. Call Lynn at 8007. 
Will pay top $ for ND-USC game t1ckets. Need 6 tickets, best locat1on available. Please call collect (714) 835-6505 ask for Tony Herenda or J"di Carlos. 
NEEDED!! 2 MICHIGAN STATE GA TIX WILL PAY$$$ CALLJIM AT 4642 
DESPERATELY NEED TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN OR FLORIDA STATE STUDENT OR GA TICKETS CALL DAVE 1809 
Badly needed 2or3 GA's for the Michigan State game. Call Jim at 3562. 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 STUDENT JR GA TIX FOR MSU. WILL PA"I MEGA BUCKS. CALL KATHY 21:<6. 
Big bucks for lJSC or FSU tlx. Call Mark at 1074. 
Need 4 MSU and 4 USC GA tilt. John 1001. 
Need 2 GA MSU iix. Money no object. Call Susan 41-4361 
Desperately ne~d 2 USC Gl'. tix. M~ney noobj~ct. Call Maria41-5191 
I need 2 USC: tix, student or G.A. money IS no ot1ect. Cad Bridget 41-515~. 
11!--DlSPERATE-·-111 Need 2 tix to see Irish trounce TroJans. Also double occupancy room. Oct. 23-24. If you have either/or: When you THINK you have your BEST price. call Bob Daley COLLC:CT. (21~) 762-0242. I WILL NOT BE OUTBID!. SURFS UP-If I can get 1 GA or Student ttcket for USC game. For fun-tn-the-sun guy from FLA. Have a hearl!! Call Pam 41-5236. 
MUST FIND-2 FSU TICKETS, student or GA. will p3y cash or trade one USC :,tu­dent ticket. PLEASE HELP!'! call Susan at 6354. 
I need 3 MSU stud or GA tix. Need not be together. M1ck 1809. 
Need U.S.C. t1ci<ets. 3 G. a.'s and 2 Stu­dents. Will pay well and/or trade for Navy GAs (if you like) Call Ron at 6261. Thanks. 
DESPERATELY IIJEED USC TIX. AM WILLING TO TRADE ROLLING STONE TIX TO DETROIT SHOW NOV.30. PREFER GAs. BUT MIGHT SETTLE FOR STUDENT TIX. CALL CHRIS AT 1678 
NEED 2 MICH ST. TIX CALL 8700. 
NEED 2 ADJACENT PURDUE GAs Call Phil 1764 
WHASUP? I need 2 GA·s to FSU Call J1m 3310. 
WILL SELL SOUL FOR 2 NAVY GAS AND 2 STU. S AND 2 GA. TECH GAS AND 2 STU'S MARK 1164 
NEED FLORIDA ST. TICKET CALL JOHN 1615. 
BIG BUCKS FOR USC OR FSU GA TIX. CALL MARK AT 1074. 
Need 2 GA tiCkets for Michigan State game Please! Call C1ndy 2917 
W1ll pay anything for FLA ST tixs. Need 51 Call Jenny 41-4507 
STUDENT SEASON FOOTBALL TICK­ET FOR SALE-BEST OFFER. CALL CHUCK AT 1479 
TWO GA FSU TICKETS. MONEY NO OBJECT CALL BOB 234-0418 
Need 2-4 Purdue tickets. Call8700 
I NEED FOUR MICH. ST TICKETS CALLJASPER AT 1744 

The Observer will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30p.m. However. clas­sifieds to be run in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All clas­sifieds must be prepaid, either in person or through 
the mail. 

Girlfriend conung many miles. Need one student or GA for MICHIGAN STATE. Please call P.OB at 8673. 
Two tix needed for FLA. ST. and Georg1a Tech. W1ll pay$$$. Eileen 4156. 
PSU Tx needed many as posoible any will hel~. CALL Mike 1 3')6 or 1866. 
Nee1 three GAs for USC . please help call369t. 
NEED 2 GEORGIA TECrl GA TIX. CALL BILL 7289. 
Need 2 GA TIX USC. You name it I'll pay '' 426 Stanford 8o54. 
Will Trade 1 FSU GA plus MUCH CASH for 2 Navy GA's. Please call TOM I 865. 
Need as many GA tix as possible to ANY home game. For Sh1cago area Christan Brothers Will thrGw in bottle of the~r best Brandy. John 1658. 
Need tix for October 3 M1ch. St. game. Call Beth, 6945 

SOCIAL CONCERN& FILM SERIES ­September 15-26. 
To the LOVELY LADIES 1n the red Budget car headed to Ann Arbor Friday on M 60 we handed off to you(Strohs).now how about complet1ng the play? call 8405 ANYTIME to arrange a huddle (mabe we can arrange a better game plan.) 
BIRD LIVES!!!! 
TRANE LIVES!!!!! 

I Sing of starships and a Moose Control. Oh. muse. come to f'T'Ie NO!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! All nght aleady I'll be qUiet. 
KATE CARRY WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR BELATED BIRTHDAY KISSES TODAY IN F LINE BE THERE OR BE CHUCK 
I need 6 MSU tix' Will take separates' Will give anyth1ng short of sex (and that's ne­gotiable') Call 1068 and ask tor M1ke Help me' 
TERENCE PATRICK BROWN. You are cordtally tnv1ted to attend Lew1s Screw-Your-Roommate on October 3. 1 98 I with the finest Texan ofthem all R.S VP 3848 
LAURA (LEROY) LARKNER-We hope your 20th Birthday is: (choose one) A)Spent consum1ng much alcohol 
B)Remembered by everyone but your­self 
C)Sat1Sf1es all of your hedomstlc des1res 
D)Forgotten (the lake IS too cold) Anyway you lrke 11. we hope tt ts the epttomy of a good ttme! 
Love. Your Ou1nt-mates 
Sherlock. Even though your foosball sk1lls were lacktng; Sat ntte was how shall we say .rambllncttous?! Spunky 
MONK LIVES!!!! 
Social Concet ns Film Series WO.R WITHOUT WINIIJEi1S LaFortune Li'lle Theatre-Sept. 22, 23, & 24 t 2·00 noon -FREE AdmiSSIOn. 
Social Concerns Fit lm Series 
BREAKER MORANT' Sept. 22,23,24-7 & 9:30p.m. Engtneenng Auditorium 1 00 AdmiSSIOn. 
TO ANNIE -MY LAUNDRY GIRL MY PERSONAL CHEF. MY SISTER AND MY BEST FRIEND! HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY! LOVE, TOPHER 
0-C COMMISSION presents i:s t~rst 0-C NITE at SENIOR BAR tomght. Get ready to party with some 0-C friends. 9:30­12·00 
Part ttme !Ob for AM. Lung Assoc Satur­day hours. Must have car. Call287-2321. 
ATTENTION: KATHY MCINTYRE. Bet you thought we forgot your birthday message. HAPPY 81RTHDAYI Love, your pals from 3A. 
MILES LIVES!!!!! 
OAKLEY'! OAKLEY!! SIGNED. MOOOOOOOO! 
Hello. Glad to hear from you. Oakley 
P.S. Mooooooooll 
STUD-UH Last night we saw you with anudduh. W.T. F. was that Buck's mud­duh? THE ZOO. 
HEY UH. PETER MEGAN. HAVE A HAPPY BIRTHDAY CHIEF!' LOVE 2M 
TUESDAY NIGHT IS IMPORT NIGHT AT IRISH COUNTRY! $1 MOLSON & HEINEKEN BOTTLES. ALSO FOS­TERS. GUINESS. BECKS AND MOREl 
ALL THE DRAFT BEER YOU CAN DRINK FOR ONLY $3 WEDNESDAY 9­1 2PM AT IRISH COUNTRY. 744 NOTRE DAME AVE 
CRYSTAL ROCKS CRYSTAL ROCKS CRYSTAL ROCKS CRYSTAL ROCKS CRYSTAL ROCKS 
every Saturday mght al IRISH COUNTRY' 
MOLSON. HEINEKEN BOTTLES ONLY $1 fUESDAY NIGHT AT IRISH COUNTRY' ALL IMPORTED BEERS ON SPECIAL EVERY TUESDAY NIGHT. FOSTERS. GUINESS. BECKS. HARP. AND MANY MORE' 
IRISH COUNTRY IRISH COUNTRY IRISH COUNTRY 
g1ves you the best beer bargain tn town! $3 all the draft you can dnnk every Wed­nesday from 9-12pm! 
D.C CLUB MEMBERS -Sign-ups for the October Break Bus Will be held on September 24 from 7-9 p m. 1n LaFortune Ballroom_ We w111 be back tn time for the U S.C. game1! Round-tnp t1cket around $65.00 Any quest1ons? Clare 3714 
The Observer Tuesday, September 22, 1981 -page 9 
• • • Quarterbacks 

continuedfrom pa~e 12 
But soml'thing happened a few weeks hdore the 1980 season hegan that touched each quarterback in a different waY. Head Coach Dan Devine surprised evervone when he announced hb resignation. 
For Tim Kot·gel. that meant a pos· sihk new beginning. For Blair Kicl. it meant that h~· would have to start over as a sophomore:. 
··1 was incredibly confused."' Kicl recall~ of that August evening in the Library Auditorium. "I mean, I'd on­h b~·en lwrc three davs. ami po~. new~ like that. When ht· recruited me. Coach Devine told me he'd he here all four years. 
"I rt·mt·mher (all-America center l John Scully kind of took me under hi~ wing that night," he continues. "lie knew I wa~ confused. and he told mt· not 10 worry about it a'ld that everything was going to he al· 
right." 
The: news struck Koegel some-· 
what differently. The first thing that 
came to mind was his high school 
coach, Gerry faust. "He was the first 
thmg that crossed my mind because 
I thought he was the best coach 
Notre Dame could get. At that time, 
it didn't seem vety possible that he 
was even in the picture." 
Hut as time went on, the possihlity 
became a probability. 
A neck injury carl~· in rhc 19k0 season gave K•>cgel the opportunity for an additional vear of eligihilty. hu~ more significant to him. the op­pPrtunilv for a fresh start. .\1canwhik, Kid kd the Irish to a surprisin!4 No. I ranking at mid­~eason and a Sugar Bowl appt·arance against (;eorgta 
Exit Dan Devine. Enter Gerry 
faust 
"I wasn't sun: I wanted to stick 
around for that fifth year until after 
the howl game \Vhen I started get­
ting hack in the thick ofthings," says 
Koegd. "I det:ided I'd like to give it a 
shot hecaust· it would he with a 
familiar offenst·. The excitcmt•nt in 
mt· startl'tl to build. It was like a new 
lift· -a St'l'ond ch;mn· .. 
"I knew I wa.' ~o:oing to have to 
prove mysdf all over a~ain." says 
Kid. "I knt·w that Tim had played for 
Coach Fau~t before. and knew the of­
fcn~c:s hcttcr than I did. I knew that I 
was going to havc to play mistake­
fret· football to carn the job." 
Tomorrou•: The Faust months. 
• • • Fund 
continuedfrom pafw 12 
ing·~ original plans in the mid-'60s but nevn constructcd, and an in­door tennis complex valued at 
S"''iO,OOO 
Clearly. the University has (·ailed out the big guns. Onc of the prime movt·r~ behind tht· drive is Dr. James I-rick, :'l<otre Dame's \ice-president lor dcvdopment. Hc was the real powt·r behmd the l mn·rsity's last two t·normousiY succes~tul fund­rai~ing dnvcs. and b considt·rcd tht· hest untvt·r~llv official 111 the unmtr\' at ratsmg mont·, 
Out Iron: m thi' dttvt· whtch wa~ l..tcl<ed oft wll h a dmnl'f last '>fonda~ mght 111 ~outh !lend. and will con· tmu~· wtth sunilar mcetmg~ in 21 u!Jc~ around the countn m the next 
10 wecb. arl' two of :\otre Dame's most hdoved. and 1rresistahlc. tlgurt·s Tht· athkttc director emeritus.. Edward \\. .. \loose" 1\.raust· and tormcr head football coach Ara Parse~htan art· the co· chairmcn ol the dlort. 
It is a large undcrtah.ing. and an 
hbtork move. But it is. without 
doubt. a tlnancial ne('t•ssit\' ~otre 
Darnt· is a good example of tht· 
hardship~ bnng suffcrrn.lln· Khools 
acros~ thc countrY, and l niversity 
ofticials arc taking the step that is by 
far the least painful. 

Ifyou're going to take grueling business courses, you'll need all the help you can get 
You'II need a financial calc<.~ Iator maoe hy the people who invented the handheld financial calculator and have led the way ever since. You'll neec._; a calculator with all the functions and 

you could ever require. You'll need a Hewlett-Packard. 
TheHP-38C. 
All the help 
you can get. 
The HP-.18C 
Advanced Finan 
cial Programmahlc 
muous Memory gives you the most extensive set of financial functions availahle m a handheld calculator. And. an easy-to-use programming capability. 
So v1sit your nearest HP dealer tor a hands-on demonstration. And check out the dynamic HP-_J, 7E business model. too. Then buy an HP. It may fx· the last easy thing you do for a long time. 
For detaib and the addn·ss of the dealer in your area. call toll free: 800-547-3400. Dept. 658N. excl'pt Hawaii and Alaska. In Oregon. call 7'58-1010. Or write I iewlett-PackarJ. Corvallis. OR 9TBO. Dept. M8N. 


HEWLETT 
PACKARD 

.\1t-anwhtlc. Tin~ K<Jegcl w;~s still waiting. did it hack in 19'il. 
"I knew that my chances would be good coming in because there wasn't an established quarterback." Kid remembers. "One of mY goals was w start as a freshman." 
The rookie reached that goal by the fourth week of the season. 


X-C team shuts out Ohio State 
The :'\/otre Dame cross country team got offto a fast start Satunlay bY shutting out Ohio State Universitv ;t Columbus, Ohio. . 
A pack of eight out of the nine Irish runners finished first -ahead of the entire OSU team. Pat Sullivan, :\1arc Wozniak, Andy Dillon, Ralph Caron, Tim Novak, Ed Willenbrink, John Adams. and Tim Cannon all crossed the finish line of the 8,000 • meter course in 25:18. 
"They did a good job establishing aggressive team running. I couldn't be happier," said Irish head coach Joe Piane. 
Members of the South African rugbJ' team, the Springboks, wait for the rest of their luggal(e in AI­


.. 

The Observer Tuesday, September 22, 1981 -page 10 


Former Irish basketball star Kelly Tripucka has his shot blocked by Indiana Pacerforward Mike Buntom during the Landon Turner All-starBasketball game S(tfurday ni?,ht. ( APPhoto) 
Witt New tnrk Wimts 
CAMPUS SUBSCRIPTIONS TO THE NEW YORK TIMES 
are now available at a 30\ discount rate from single copy newstand price. (Discount 
only for weekday paper). Newspapers are 
available on day of publication when classes 
are in session. Daily,discount rate is 35¢. 
Delivery can be guaranteed for the first day 
of ~elivery on Sept. 21st only if payment is 
~i;:~~e~a~l ~~~t~~~m1 ~~tion of this slip to: 
Hans Hoerdemann 402 Keenan Hall

'• 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
Dear Mr. Aoerdemann: 
Count me in for The New York Times! I will subscribe 5_6__7__sunday only__. 
Enclosed is my check for:______ 
Fall Term Ends Dec. 13th Full Year 
Mon-Fri $18.20 Mon-Fri $42.35 Men-Sat $21.. 35 Mon-Sat $49.70 Mon-Sun $39.35 Mon-sun $91.70 sun only$18.00 Sun only$42.00 
Papers will be delivered to dorms and faculty offices. There will be no delivery during exam week and holidays. 
Name'-------------------­
Addre••--------~--------­


Thurs. Sept. 24, 1981 8:00PM Call 284-4176 for tickets 
O'Laughlin Auditorium TWenty·fifth Anniversary Program 

Satnt Mary's College Prese•1ts • 
I 
r 
I I 
l I 

P-E Packers 


Enthusiasm. offsets inexperience 
As the crisp nights ofautumn set in more ofour atten­tions will be spent on the activities that accompany the sea~on. Here at Notre Dame, football is the event of 

Jim Iinney
greatest interest, not only on the varsity level, but on 

, the intramural level as welL A prime example of this enthusiasm exists in the flag football team representing Pasquerilla East, the latest addition ofstudent residency Inside ND Interhall on the campus. 
Coached by Scott Stearney,Jim]ohnston, Ron]anow­has the talent and experience to take control on the syck and Dave O'Neill, the "Pac-East Packers" look, so field and to provide the young squad with someone to far, to be a top contender in the women's football look to as an exampit:. league. Having a tL"am mainly compiled of freshman, Hut after all is said and done, spirit is the theme to their level of experience is meeger at best. In speaking which this up'and-coming group ascribes, and should with the coaches, though, they seem to site this youth as provide the league with exciting competition this a help rather than a hindrance. season. 
"The unity and genuine excitement these ladies dis­play is remarkable, and it grows with each meeting," OTHER SCORES -In otht·r women's football action: says johnston. The unity in this case is a special one. As Pasquerilla West over Walsh, 6-0; Lt:wis ovt:r Lyons, 7 -6; Stearney puts it, "Before this season not many of these and in last week's competition Brt:en·Phillips downed girls knew each other, so its a karning process any way Pasquerilla W t:st, 12-0 and Farley beat Off·Campus, 6-0. you look at it." And learn they do, and quickly at that MEN'S FOOTBALL -The men's interhall football from the point of view of the coaches. Before their season gets under way Sunday. For information on the ~cason opener the Packer~ had two brief practices in time, place and opponent ·of your hall's team. contact which to learn a half dozen offensive plays that were your hall's athletic commissioner. executed as well as could be desired and led them to INSURANCE -This is a remindt:r to all those par­victory over Badin's team, 14-0. ticipating in non-varsity athletics: Proof of in~urance 
Oganization is another key factor in PE's winning at­must be submitted to the NY A office no later than the titude. The coaching staff feels by having four coaches, last business day bdorc your first game. Failure to com­it can break down into units more proficiently and bet­ply will result in your ineligibility to play. ter instruct the pertinent fundementals. TRACK -This Friday's track meet will start prompt­
Tht: Packt:rs an· by no means without leadership. ly at -!:30 p.m. Contestants should rt:port to the meet Kathy Guglielmi, a senior coming over from Farley Hall, director at the outdoor track (Cartin). 
MARY SIEGER 
!>Ports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team opens its season tonight at 6 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. The team has an abundance of enthusiasm which will be taken onto the c;>urt with them when they take on a tough Grace College team. 
This year, Indiana volleyball 
teams face a change in how they 
shall play each other. Throughout 
the state, volleyball tea111s will no 
longer play in divisions, rather in 
conferences. Within tht:se con­
frences, the teams are dtvided into 
Northern and Southern d:stricts. 
Saint Mary's has been placed in the 
N~nhern District. 
This change will increase com­
petition between teams because 
they will now have to qualifY for a 
chanct' to play in the state tourna­mcnt. 
Despite working with a new sys­tem, head coach Erin Murphy is optimistk about tonight's game and about the season. She and tht: team are ""looking for something like last year's 13·1 record this yt:ar," says Murphy. Thi~ record was earned in Division Ill games last year. Ovt:rall, the team had a 16-I 3·3 record 
including the state tournament. 

According to Murphy, the strong­
t:st points of the Ddles volleyball 
team are the talent ofthe players and 
the overall enthusiasm of the team. 
This winning attitudt: is reflected 
throughout team membt.rship. 

This yt:ar's returning ver::rans in­
clude sophomore Rosemary Whales, 
who was last year's most valuable 
player, sophomore Lor::t Haney, 
senior Terri Wdtcrs and senior 
:Viarybt:th Hosinski. 

For the third year in a row, Wal­ters has been elected one of the tea!'l's co-captians. She will share the duties with all her teammates. For each game, a co-captain will be 
Volleyball 

Belles challenge Grace College 


Dorsett regains lead; Cowboys doUJn Pats 
FOXBORO, Mass. (AP) -Tony Dorsett regained the National Foot­ball League rushing lead by rolling up 162 yards, 75 on a touchdown burM, and Danny White threw two scoring passes to spark the unbeaten Dallas Cowboys to a 35-21 victory over the error-plagued New England Patriots last night. 
named on a rotating basis.· Loret Haney will have the responsibility for the tlrst game of the season. The idea of rotating captains came from the assistant c:>ach Dan Anderson. Murphy likes the idea, citing "Each piayt:r ~hould have the chance to contribute mort: to the team and to 
develop leadership skills as well." 
··1 see the team as bt:ing two step~ above last year's because this is the first time that we have ~eniors on the team and we have quality freshmen as well." says Hosinski. 
"If students come to sec !ust one 
game and see how exciting it is, 
they'll be hooked," says Murphy. 
Dorsett, off to the best start of his 
five-year pro career, had rushed for 
132 and 129 yards in the first two 
games of the season. and his 19 
carries in this one boosted his 
season total to '123 yard~ before he 
was forced to leave the game mid­
way through the fourth quarter with 
bruised ribs. 
His touchdown gave Dallas, 3-0, a -17·7 lead with 6:56 left in the first 
half. Dorsett started left, then cut 
back across the field and outran cor­
nerback Ray Clayborn to the end 
zone. 
The Patriots, winless in three 
games, closed the halftime gap to I 7­
14 when rookie Tony Collins 
capped an 80·yard driw with a 3­
yard burst off right tackk. 
Nt:w England grabbed its only 
lead on the first series of the sc:cond 
half. ~tosi Tatupu broke two tackles 
en route to a 38-yard touchdown 
run. the longest gain of his ti.Jur-yt:ar 
;>.JFL career. 
The Cowboys wt:rt: forced to punt on tht:ir next st:rit:s. but Roland James fumbled \\"hitt:'s kick anu An­gelo King recovert:d at tht: Patrims' 
19. Seven plays later. \\"hite found BillyJoe DuPrt:e with a \-yard lob to giw Dallas a 2+21 lead. 
Cavanaugh thrt:w four intercep­tions, three of which led to Dallas scores, and the Patriots lost three fumbles, including one that precet:ded the second Dallas touch­down. 
-The.ObserYer 
T0 da~===============T=u=e=s;:d=a=y=,S=e=p=te=m=b=e=r=2=2=,1=9=8=1==p=ag=e=l=l· 
~ Molarity 
GU£55 IT J.1U5T BE' f.,XCIT/NGT SEINC:! CDACHEP 8Y G£Rfi\Y FAIJ..5r IT HU5T BE LIKE 111£ PAY5tJF f?C(/'N£ 

RJMfJJ PREPPY 5lllJDWJ­8tARER GCOR6c 8/J5H, 
"IT:S a/!1(/I(X'a)S/ 7/I&R/3 AI?£IIT 13Vl3N THAT MANY PflEPS IN Nail liN6WIO [)(RJN6 7H£ OFF·SCA5()f.;. 
MOST rF115 TIP tJ£tL ANO u:AV!3 8)' /.A8()? l)1Y. " 
Michael Molinelli 




Campus 
•12:00 
p.m. -film, social concrrns film-"war without winners", Iafortune little theat•:r, sponsored by ctr. for exper. learning and student gov.'t, 

• 
3:30 p.m. -computer mini-<:ourse, intro tu computing with pascal, I 1 'i ccmb, sponsored hy computing center. 

•4:00 
p.m. -civil engineering dept. lecture, "pcb's in lake michigan: contamination and cleanup of waukegan harbor" dr. robert a. griffin. 


ill. sta4-' geological survey, 2'i4 tltzpatrick, 
•4:30 
p.m. -kennan lecture series. "topics in arithmetic groups",session 2, prof. j.e. humphreys, 226 ccmh, 

•7:00 
and 9:30pm. social conc<:rns film. "breaker moran!", ·engineering auditorium, sponsored hy student gov't and ctr. for exper. ll'arning. 

•7:30 
p.m. -ladies of nd rneeting. opening tea to welcome memhns. memorial library penthouse, 

•8: 
I c; p.m. -concert, "the jongleurs" annenhng auditorium.snite museum. sponsored hy guest art· ist series. 


Television Tonight 
Tuesday, September 22 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 10:00p.m. 
10:30 p.m. 
11:00 p.m. 
11:30 p.m. 
16 
22 28 34 
46 
28 
46 
16 
28· 
46 
28 34 
46 
28 34 
46 
16 22 28 34 
46 
16 22 28 34 
46 
28 
46 
16 

Project Peac.oek -liow to Eat !.ike a Child Movie. "Salem's Lot" Happy Days Nova. "Blindness: five Points of View" If's Your Business LaVl'rne & Shirll'y God's Nt·ws Behind tht· News Tuesday Night at the Movks, "Oh God" Three's Company Lester Sumrall Tea.·hing Series 
Too Close for Cornf<Jrt 
Ft·stival of Ilands -The Silken Teat 
Dwight Thompson 
IIart to IIart 
Tht· Duch•:ss of Dukt· Strel'l 
TPday with Lester Sumrall Nt·wsCenlcr 16 22 Eyewitness Nn\<s Newswatch 2H 
Tht· Dil'k Cav<"ll Show 
<;ood News 
Tonight Show 
Alice & :-.:cCioud 
ABC News Night lin< 
Captioned ABC Nt·ws .\1ichiana Today fantasy Island 
Praist· the Lord 
Tomorrow Coast to Coast 

/ 


Simon 
ANO Tlf:Jil.<IWD5 tY t€AR.5 7fMN6 ;1:) GET AJI 1/f(MY OF FOLICWett5. HIWE }'t)U EVE~': !?ET liN AVERAGE SllTIIII WOif!SHil'ER ~ 
UN... z· VOI.J'T 
THIIJI< -'0. 
\ 



The Daily Crossword 

20 African 40 Whitman fly 41 Capek play 21 Plane 42 Omar's prefix output ·22 "The -with 43 "For-the 
the Hoe" bell ..." 23 Decay 44 Snug: var. 24 TV adjunct 45 Ethiopian 26 Gold cloth people 

Monday's Solution 

©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 9/22181 All Rights Reserved 




T#£N THE 'lir!:VIL SHALL i3e TN!(owi'J INTO T/1£ i.AKC cF RRe MD 6ULPJNR Fat? EV£R AND eVer?, '' 
(t7EV. ~'to.) 

ACROSS 1 Ukase 5 Killer 
whales 10 Spitz the swimmer 14 Codeword forA 15 Mid-west 
oil city 16 -Minor 17 Rest 
28 Amo, -, amat 29 Majoror 
kitchen 32 Culbertson 
of bridge 33 Mimics 34 Territorial 
division 36 Veer 39 Toward the 
center 

This Day in History 
Today's highlight in history: 
On Sept. 2i, I 792, the Frt·nch lkpuhlic was proclaimed during the french Revolution. 
On this date: 

in 1862, Presitknt Ahraham Lincoln declared thatall sla~'t's would be free as of.Jan. I, 1865, the date of the Emancipation Proclamation. In I 927, slavery was ai)Oilshnl in tht· former British colony ofSierra Leone in Africa. 
In 1949, the Soviet Union exploded its first atomic bomh. four years after first li.S. nuclear detonation. 
One year ago: hostilities between Iran and Iraq erupted into what was described as fullscak war. 
-AP. 

. .
~ 
.., 
******************************************************************************************* 
BUT \VHA T DOES THE STUDENT UNION RECORD STORE HAVE FOR ME? 
CONVENIENCE ... The NDSU Record Store is located on the Main floor of LaFortune 
and is open 9-5. . PLUS-ordered albums take 1 week only$! 
CHEAPER PRICES ... Save 24-32% off list prices! _ MOST CURRENT SINGLES-$6.50 (compare at $8.99 list). Cut-outs ... $2.98 to $5.98 
48 Sprite 49 Buzzer 51 Natives: 
sui!. 
52 Makes a new tree strain 55 How a cross· 
cut saws 58 Dagger 59 Brilliance 60 Phobia 
prefix 61 Villa D'­62 Sounds of 
interrup· tion 63 Mulliga· tawney, e.g. 
DOWN 1 Reality 2 Native 
Rhodesians 3 Attractive 
tome 4 Tic·­5 Sioux 
Indian 6 -·of·the· 
mill 7 Spotless 8 Ledger 
entries 9 Cavalry 
sword 10 West 11 Speaking 
realisti· cally 
12 Hayworth or Moreno 13 Actress Madeline 18 FOR fol· lower 19 Reagan, to 
friends 24 Prayer word 25 Me., N.H., 
etc. 26 On the up 
and up 27 Unattended 28 Footless 30 Muscle 
health 31 Ledger item 33 Dark Cont. 34 Peaceful 35 Pismire 37 -Morgana 38 New Mexico 
city 43 Cad 44 Bow and 
Barton 46 -·Tin-Tin 47 Sailing 48 Work unit 49 Summoned 50 Protection 52 Obtains 53 Wear out 54 Shoe or 
plow 56 Eis~nhower 57 Sandwich 
meat 

GREAT SELECTION ... Springsteen, Fogelberg, Moody Blues, Stevie Nicks, Christopher Cross, Pat Benatar, Journey, and many more. ALSO ... recorded and blank tapes available. 


SO ... for CHEAPER PRICES, MORE CONVENIENCE, and a GREAT SELECTION, 

... stop by the S · U · Record Store today!! ! ******************************************************************************************* 
• 

Athletic endowment fund underway 
BY SKIP DESJARDIN 

Assistant Sports Editor 
One ofthe most important events in thtt history of Notre Dame ath­letics took place last Monday, and al­
a. most no one outside the administration and the athletic department even noticed. For the first time, the University has begun a campaign to raise money specifically for sports. The S l 0 million campaign is designed to establish an athletic endowment, a move that already has been made in a large number ofinstitutions. In the past, Notre Dame simply has paid for the operation ofthe ath­letic department through the Uni­versity's general fund. All revenue from athletics went into the fund, and expenses for fielding non­revenue teams were drawn from it. But the inevitable happened. In­flation, and the expansion of non-revenue sports, caught up with bowl game and television profits. "It has become apparent that we cannot rely simply on basketball and football to carry the costs of the entire athletic department," says Roger Valdiserri, assistant athletic director and sports information director. "Last year, the net income from those two sports was only $29,000. Before long, athletics would have run into the red." But Notre Dame is not alone in its plight. Every school in the PAC-H' has had to make budgetary cutbacks. USC, thought by many to be .the wealthiest team in college sports, dropped gymnastics, is phasing out water polo, and has reduced soccer from varsity to club status. Four other PAC-I 0 schools also are drop­ping sports. 
The problem is not with the major sports. Of Notre Dame's gross ath­letic revenue of S4.3 million in I979-80, 98 percent was generated by football and basketball. At times in the recent past, the two sports have enabled the athletic depart­ment to contribute a net income of as much as Sl million to the Univer­sity's general fund. 
The problem is with the so-called minor, non-revenue sports. Notre Dame now offers 19 varsity programs, and an additional 1 5 club sports. The administration, at the ur­ging of athletic director Gene Cor­rigan, also has committed itself to a vast improvement of its athletic programs for women. · 
The problem is also with inflation. Travel expenses for this year will top the SSOO,OOO mark. That does not include hotel accomodations, meals and other expenses. In addition, it now costs far more to outfit a hock­ey player than it docs to dress a foot­balllineman. 
"The income from an athletic endowment, invested by the Board of Trustees, could make the dif­ference between an economically viable athletic program on the one hand, or, on the other, operating at a deficit or dropping some sports," says the Rev. Edmund Joyce, the campaign's honorary chairman. 
"The idea is a simple one," says Corrigan. "With.$10 million in­vested at, say, I 0 percent a year. you would have S I million to start each fiscal year." 
Administration and athletic department officials know the problems they face in raising money, especially now. They have just com­pleted a fund-raising drive that brought in over S180 million, and suddenly they are asking for more. In light \lf that. the drive will focus on a very special group ofpeople. 
"An effort will be made to contact everyone who ever has won a monogram playing for a Notre Dame team," says Valdiserri. "Each ofthem wili be asked to assess the contribu­tion that Notre Dame athletics made to their lives and careers. W c will simply be asking for their participa­tion based on those contribrutions." That may sound like intense arm­twisting, but it pales in comparison to the measures taken by other schools. Again, for example, the PAC-10 -UCLA this year became the last school in the conference to earmark its football tickets. Seats be­tween the 20-yard lines are now sold only to members ofa special booster club. Season ticket holders, many of 
whom had owned prime tickets for decades, lost those scats if they did not join the club. They still got seats, but they were in the end zones. 
Similar booster clubs have been formed at each of the PAC-10 schools, and membership averages Sl,OOO to Sl,250peryear. 
The same rules arc in effect for basketball fans at most ofthe schools in the conference. 
"We would never do that here," 
promises Corrigan. "That is why we 
have begun this campaign." 
The plan calls for the money to be 
raised by the end of the school year. 
with the benefits paying off by the 
end of 1982. Officials promise to 
touch none of the principle, prefer­
ring to usc only the interest for ex­
penditures. 
In addition, all post-season revenue generated by the football and basketball programs will he added to the endowment. This con­stitutes a change in policy, as thoo;e funds had been earmarked in the 
past for minority scholarships. 
Down the road, athletic depart­ment personnel envision a fund of SI 5 to S20 million. That would fully endow the department, they feel. Ir the more immediate future. plans are for the construction of a S l. ~ million pool behind the ACC, som• . thing that was drawn into the built' 
See FUND, page 9 

Tuesday, September 22, 1981 -page 12 






Kiel and Koegel conttnue to vte 
EDITOR'S NOTE: This is the first of two articles analyzing Notre Dame's two starting quarterbacks, Tim Koegel and Blair Kiel, and the unusual system Gerry Faust has opted to use them in. Today -The Devine years. 
By MICHAEL ORTMAN 
Sports Editor 

This is a tale oftwo quarterbacks. 
Both are products of the Midwest 
-one from Cincinnati, Ohio; the 
other from Columbus. Ind. 

Both play football at Notre Dame. 
Both are starting quarterbacks at 
Notre Dame. 

Both have received their fair 
shares of attention from the media 
since coming to Notre Dame. 

Both were recruited by Dan 
Devine and now play for Gerry 
Faust. 

Both have been riding emotional roller coasters since arriving in South Bend -Tim Koegel over four years ago, and Blair Kiel last fall. 
Koegel arrived in South Bend in 1977. He was recognized by virtual­ly everyone as one of the premier quarterbacks available to college recruiters that year. One pro scout proclaimed that Koegel could walk straight into the pros. 
Tim passed up numerous offers of guaranteed stardom, and "startdom," to attend Notre Dame. Joining him in the hunt for playing time that fall were classmates Mike Courey, Greg Knafelc and Rick Buehner (who eventually transfered to Kentucky), all fine signal callers in high school. Add heir-apparent Rusty Lbch and inspired young Joe 
Montana. and one couldn't help think that some of these guys surely would get lost in the shuffle. 
"I think I expected pretty much the same thing that most incoming freshmen do," reflects Koegel. "You don't expect to step in right away, but you expect you'll get your chance, and from the way things sounded, it looked like I was going to get my chance pretty early. But it just never worked out that way." 
There are those who'd say that Koegel did get lost in the shuffle of the National Championship year of I977. He puts it a different way. "I 
think the offense that they used my 
first four years limited my chances of 
playing." 
That is, indeed, an understate­ment. "They said (when recruiting me) that if you're the starter, we'll gear it (the offense) more toward the drop back." 
Koegel was and is a drop back pas­ser, a characteristic that doesn't make one feel at home in a run­oriented, roll-out type offense. But he waited and waited and... 
He wasn't really in the hunt his freshman year. Lisch started the season, only to be replaced by Mon­tana, "The Comeback Kid" who led the Irish to the national title. 
The following year, the more­
mobile Lisch won the job 
Koegel's first big disappointment. "It 
was tough to accept it." he says, "but 
you learn to accept things like that. 
I'm sure when I get out into the busi­
ness world there are going to be dis­
appointments and things you don't 
expect. You've just got to keep 
going at it and hope that something 
breaks your way." 
The passer Koegel alternated with the runner Courey at Purdue in I979 when Lisch was sidelined with an ankle sprain. But the defense has a decisive advantage when it knows whether the offense is going to run 
or pass. 
Last summer, the race appeared to be between Courey and the fresh­man Kiel. And Koegel continued to wait. 
Blair Kiel entered Notre Dame un­
der somewhat similar cir­
cumstances. The man who had led 
the offense the previous year, Lisch, 
was gone. But Courey. Knafelc and 
Koegel would be seniors that fall. 
Kiel also was acclaimed as one ofthe 
nation's fine~t prep quarterbacks. 
but then so was his Notre Dame 
classmate Scott Groom~. 
Nevertheless, the quarterback 
situation in the fall of 1980 was ur.. clear right up until the opener against Purdue, and in fact. on through the first three weeks of the season. But when the smoke had cleared. Kiel had become the· first freshman to start at quarterback for Notre Dame since Ralph Guglielmi 
See QUARTERBACKS, page 9 
Football 

Bottom Ten goes topless 
We may be dumb, but we ain't stupid. 
First Bottom Ten voters honored Northwestern, 
making them the preseason favorite to be the worst 
team in the land. The Mildcats promptly looked re­
spectable in a 20-21 scrape with Indiana. They didn't win, but they played too well-and dropped out ofthe No.1 spot. 
Then, the fearless forecasters cast their lot with the Michigan Wolverines. The Blue responded by beating Notre Dame, and getting banned from this week's poll. 
As the ballots rolled in, compilers noticed that not one voter had listed a number one team. The pressure was on, and voters figured this was the best way to avoid further cmbarassment. 
The big news of the week came out of the state of Pennsylvania. Penn downed Cornell, 29-22, equalling its win total for the past two years combined -one. 
In addition, the Cincinnatti Bearcats continued their "Flirtin' With Disaster" tour of the state. Last week, Cincy lost, S2-0 to Penn State. This was another record week, as Pitt quarterback Dan Marino threw five TO passes in a 38-7 shellacking. 
The Bottom Ten's coveted "Back to Reality" Award 
goes to Wisconsin, Iowa, and Georgia Tech. Welcome 
home, boys. 
Here, then, the rankings: 
2) Columbia (0-1) -Lost to Hahvahd, 6-23. Rah. 
3) Northwestern (0-2) -Couldn't get the Bears to lend them Matt Suhey for game with Arkansas. 


4) Tulsa (0-3) -Hurricane downgraded to Tropical Storm. 
5) Cincinnati (0-2) -"Can we play Temple, too?" 
6) Air Force (0-2) -See No. 9. 
7) Stanford (0-2) -Elway hits .250 in loss to San.Jose State. 
8) Rice (0-2) -The only team in the poll that could be 8. 
9) Anny (0-2) -See No. 6. 
10) William & Mary (0-3) Bill had a tough day, losing 47-3 to Virginia Tech 
Also receiving votes: Alabama (2-1) -Onlv bea.t Kentuckv bv nine. East Carolina (1-2) __:The 51st state~ · Maine (0-2) -Remember' 
Quote ofthe week: 
Cincinnati Coach .\1ike Gottfried: "I'm going to call the Pennsylvania governor and see if I can get a stay of execution." 




