
• • .Irish Draftees -page 12 

VOL XV, NO. 136 THURSDAY, APRil 30, 1981
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 

Reagan invitation dra"Ws disapproval 
By TOM SHAUGHNESSY 
News Stuff 
A crowd of about HOO students and faculty members gathered on the South Quad at a rally held to protest the choice of President Ronald Reagan as this year's com­mencement speaker and as the recipient of an honorary degree from the University. 
The crowd appeared to be even­ly divided between demonstrators wearing white armbands and pro­Reagan counter-demonstrators bearing pictures of the President and a banner which read,"Don't Give the Gipp No Up." The walls of 
Alumni,  Dillon  and  Badin  halls  
were  draped  with  more  pro­ 
Reagan banners.  

William O'Brien, a senior from Stanford Hall, opened the rally, ter­ming it "a serious examination of ideals." O'Brien stated that the ral­ly represented a choice "to rake our Ideals seriously" In the face of "the harsh political realities ofour world.""Resigning ourselves to 'realism,' suggests that there is real­ly no need for an Institution like Notre Dame," O'Brien stated. He closed his speech by saying, "The only true patriotism is the one that sincerc:ly and constructively ques­tions, analyzes, criticizes, en­courages. The only true patriot acts out of concern... and we are called to l·arc." 
Tht· next speaker was senior Maureen Manier. Ms. Manier clarlflt-d the stand of the Students Concerned About Commcnce­mt·nt, citing the sharp contrast bl·­tween "the principles and values" of the University and those reflected In Reagan's policies as the rea'i<m for their objection to the President's appearance at this year's commencement ceremony. 
"We feel that tht: choice of com­mencement speakers and recipients of honorary degrees arc unique opportunities for the Uni­versity to express the principles and values which It embodies. We simply do not feel President Reagan's policies accord with the Image of the University which we as students arc taught to represent society at large," Ms. Manier said. She referred specifically to the 
Meetnext Thursday 
Murday prepares proposals 
ByJEFF CHOPPIN 
Jenlor JtaffReporter 
Student government will present four Senate-approved proposals to the Student Affairs Subcommittee of the Board ofTrustees next Thursday at the Center for Continuing Educa­tion. 
The major thrust of the presenta­tion will focus on the Notre Dame social life. Overcrowding, the off­campus Issue, and a lack of social space will be among the subjects dis­cussed in the proposals. 
The first proposal recommends that the University commission a study into the fea'libility of on­campus M:nior townhouses. The Reagan administration's policies concerning El Salvador, the economy, and human rights. Ms. Manier asked the crowd to "give us the chance to freely express our viewpoints and listen with an open mind to what we have to say." Her appeal was met with boos and hisses from the pro-Reagan mem­bers ofthe crowd. 
Following her comments, Bob Heineman, a 1968 graduate of Notre Dame, recalled the protests and turbulence of the sixties and expressed concern over the policies of the Reagan Administra­tion. Reagan's dream "is a nightmare for the majority of Americans," he said. According to Heineman, Reagan's "nightmare" entails the reduction ofpublic fun­ding for meal programs in public schools, the reduced educational 
~e lNVITATION, page 4 

Conservative Demspledge budget support 
..... 

WASHINGTON (AP) -House budget plan still being pieced to-Democratic leaders scrambled gether by the Democratic leader­yestt:rday to hold the party's ranks ship. for a looming budget showdown, In addition, Rep. Charles but rebellious conservatives Stcnholm, D/Tcxas, predicted that stressed their determination to six to I 0 Democrats who arc not join the Republican minority to members of the forum also will go pass President Reagan's package. along with Reagan, who addressed 
One congressman said as many Congress Tuesday night in a na­

as j5 of the 44 members of the tionally televised appeal for enact­Conservative Democratk Forum ment of his program. probably will support the presi­If correct, Stcnholm's count dent's proposal over an alternative coupled with Republican claims 
Foreign aid 

Development Bank convenes 
HONOLULU (AP)-The Asia Development Bank, set up 15 years ago to better Asian and Pacific nations economically and socially, meets on American soil for the first time this week, emphasizing its worries over declining U.S. foreign aid. 
In the past, the United States has set the pace for nmtributions to the ADB. But with the Reagan administration plans to review U.S. foreign aid, there is now concern about future cuts in aid -and that such cuts would be mirrored among the bank's 16 other donor members, including 14 in Europe and North America. 
second proposal recommends that the Board of Trustees amend the constitution of the Campus Life Council to Include the Chair of the Faculty Senate as one of the two faculty representatives. An ex­officio member ofthe Faculty Senate would also sit in CLC meetings. 
The third proposal suggests that the University complete the Chautauqua project in La Fortune. The fourth proposal requests that a student sit on the Board ofTrustees. 
Student Body President Don Mur­day said that the townhouse and Chautauqua proposals will each take up a "considerable" amount of time. The most interesting one, according to Murday, will be the proposal requesting that a student sit on the Board. 
"It has been talked about a lot, but it has never been tried before. It will be very Interesting to sec what hap­pens.... They will either squash it im­mediately or they will listen to our Input." The rea'iOn for the proposal, Mui'day said, is that the students need quicker feedback pertaining to the discussions on their proposals. He said that the average time be­tween presentation and response is about five months. The other reason for the proposal is for "someone to express the views ofthe students." 
Murday reported that he had con-
See CLC, page 4 


VE GIFP 
Students Concerned About Commencement held a rally outside the South Dining Hall to protest President Reagan's scheduled appearance at Notre Dame's graduation. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
that they will suffer only two or three defections would give lkagan a stunning victory in the Democratic-controlled !louse next week. 
The Senate Budget Committee approved a plan drawn to White House specifications Tuesday and a final vote in the GOP-dominated Senate is expected within two weeks. 
At issue is a hudgct outline that 
would set guidclint·s for Congress 
By holding its 14th annual meeting in Honolulu at a time wht·n U.S. con­tributions to multilateral lending institutions arc under study, the bank hopes to attract the attention ofthe Amt·rican government, especially that of Trea'lury Secretary Ronald Reagan, who is the U.S. governor on the board. lie will be represented at the meeting by Deputy Senetary R. Tim McNamar. 
Two matters are to he discussed hy the ·H national representatives on the board ofgovernors: replenishment of the Asian Development Fund, due to 
run low on funds in 1982, and an in­crease in the bank's ordinary capital to cover conventional loans for the four­year period beginning in 19H3. 
The Manila-based bank provides 

two main types ofassistance. 
The Asian Development Fund is the "soft-lending" arm of the bank. It makes so-called conccssional loans to Asia's poorest nations, loans which typically carry no interest charges and require only an annual service ('barge of 1 percent. Bangladesh and Burma were the largest borrowers from the 
fund in 1980. 
Conventional loans from the bank's capital stock arc made at 9 percent interest to the better-off developing nations sul'h a'l Taiwan and Korea. These loans are for specific projects such ao; port improvement or expansion ofa region eletric power grid. 
The Reagan administration hao; Indicated it will continue to meet Its inter­national obligation while overall foreign aid policy Is under review. 
Specifically, it will expedite the remaining installments ofa four-year com­mitment to the development fund made by the Carter administration in 1979, according to Lester Edmund, the outgoing Amcrkan member of the bank's board ofdirectors. 
The bank was founded by the United Nations In 1966 as "an international partnership devoted to the economic and social advancement of Asia and the Pacific," bank president Taroichi Yoshida said. Since then it ha'l lent more than S8 billion for some 4S'5 projects, leading to overall capital invest­ment ofsome S21 billion. 
See BANK, page 3 

to follow later in the year on spending and taxt·s. The precise shape of spt·mling cuts and tax reductions themselves will not ht· worked out for weeks or months. 
Opponents of tht· president's plan in tht· lloust·, including Rep. Richard c;cphardt, D/Mo., conceded that Rt·agan had helped his cause with the speech, his first since surviving an assassination at-
See DEMS, page 4 
--~-­
News Brieb 
Thursday,April3o, ~9s1-page2 
c===~========*=================================~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
PopeJohn Paul 11 joinsJewish religious leaders in a historic interfaith prayer during his forthcoming visit to Switzerland, the visit's Swiss organizers said yesterday. They said the prayer scheduled during the pontiffs five-day visit beginning May 31 has no precedent in the history of the papacy, and will follow ecumenical meetings between the pontiffand ProtestantandJewish groups. -AP 
More than 54,000 peoplewaved flags and shouted "banzai" to Emperor Hirohito, the world's longest reigning monarch, on his 80th birthday yesterday. Hirohito is the first ofJapan's 124 imperial leaders to turn 80 while on the throne. The slight, silver­haired emperor, dressed in a cutaway, made four appearances on the veranda ofthe Imperial Palace with members of the royal family. He told the crowd: "I am very happy that so many ofyou have come to celebrate my birthday. I hope for the continued good health ofall of you." -AP 
Washington correspondentJohn Malison, of the Rand Daily Mail, said yesterday he is returning to South Africa to serve a jail sentence for refusing to reveal the source ofa story about attempts by the South African government to inftuence Americans in favor ofapartheid -South Africa's system of racial segregation. Mat­tisonn,31, told The Associated Press he expects to surrender at a Johannesburg police station Friday. He said ifhe refuses after serving his sentence, he will be a second offender who could be sentenced to as long as two years in prison. -AP 
CorneliaWallace,divorced wife offormer Gov. George Wallace, was handcuffed and jailed, but not charged, after police stopped her in a pickup truck that had been reported stolen, authori­ties said Police ChiefJerry Brannon said the truck was "borrowed" After the incident Saturday she was admitted to Elba General Hospital, said her uncle, former Gov.James "BigJim" Folsom. "All I know is she was in the hopital and she's out now," he said in a telephone interview from his home in Cullman. Charles Pearce of Elba, who reported his truck stolen about noon Saturday said, "The truck was taken, but everything is back to normal and there was no harm done." -AP 
The banquetroomofthe Ramada Inn looked as if200 kitchen junk drawers had been dumped in it. Traders were swapping Mighty Dog labels for Tuna Helper box fronts. People bragged about taking trips to Disney World on their coupon earnings. The something-for-nothing crowd had come to Akron. At a swap meet set up in the hotel Tuesday, people brought boxes and suitcases filled with cents-offcoupons, free product offers and refund forms, hoping to trade something they had but didn't want for something they wanted and didn't have. The conventioneers came from as far as Mis­souri and were prepared to wheel and deal with the frenzy of com­modities market brokers. For those who doubt that rummaging through trash from neighbors and relatives can be profitable. avid ref unders readily voice their testimonials. "I only had to pay 44 cents for 133 in groceries with coupons rve saved sinceJanuary," said one woman. -AP 
Dr. Edward R. Trubacassociate professor offinance 
and business economics, will succeed Prof Herbert E. Sim as chair­
man of the Department of Finance and Business Economics at the 
University of Notre Dame, it was announced today by Prof Timothy 
O'Meara, University provost. 

Trubac, who joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1960, is also director 
of the University's Master ofScience in Administration Program, the 
nation's only master's program geared to training managers for the 
not-for-profit sector and one of the University's largest and fastest 
growing graduate programs. 

After earning his B.S. degree from Manhattan College in 1957, 
Trubac received both a masters and a doctorate from Syracuse Univer­
sity. Trubac's research interests include business forecasting and 
management ofnot-for-profit organizations such as hospitals, schools 
and religious institutions. 

Sim will return to a full-time teaching load when Trubac assumes 
the chairmanship next fall -The Observer 
Dr. Roger A. Schmitz Keating-Crawford Professor 
and chairman ofthe Department ofChemical Engineering at the Uni­
versity of Notre Dame since the fall of 1979, will become dean ofthe 
University's College of Engineeringjune 22, 1981, it was announced 
today by Provost Timothy O'Meara On the faculty at the University of 
Illinois for 18 years before coming to Notre Dame, Schmitz succeeds 
Dr. joseph C. Hogan who became dean in 1967 and announced his 
n.:signation in November 1979 to be effective this summer. Schmitz's 
appointment comes after a year's search which included visits by the 
provost to schools of engineering such as Cal Tech, M.I.T., Stanford 
and Berkeley. The search committee was headed by the provost as 
chairman and Pro[ K..T. Yang of the Department of Aerospace and 
Mechanical Engineering a.'> vice chairman. "Professor Schmitz's ap­
pointment ends a long selection process at the national level," 
O'Meara noted. "I am convinced there is no finer person for the dean­
ship than Roger." O'Meara added, "His research is ofthe very highest 
calibre, well respected throughout the country; and he is firmly com· 
mitted to undergraduate teaching and to those values central to Notre 
Dame. It is our shared hoe and expectation that he will continue his 
research in the dynamics and control ofchemically reacting systems 
during his deanship." -The Observer 
Partly cloudy and coolwith a chance for showers. High in the mid to upper 50s. Possible showers tonight. Low in the upper 30s and low 40s. Partly cloudy and cool Friday. High mid to upper 50s. -AP 
Remember Cynthia Dwyer 

Cynthia Dwyer, a 49-year old Amherst, New York, native, was arrested last May 5 as she attempted to leave Tehran's Hilton Hotel to return to the United States. Becoming the "53rd" hostage, Mrs. Dwyer was almost forgotten by the American public until the January release ofthe 52 Americans held at the Embassy. A for­mer editor of Humanist Magazine, Mrs. Dwyer jour­neyed to Iran April I 0, 1980, as in independent reporter wanting to observe the entire situation, possibly inter­view some of the 52 American hostages, then compile her research, hoping to sell articles upon her return to the United States. She became worried, however, during her stay in Tehran and made a telephone call to The Buffalo Evening News in which she claimed to have information that could free several hostages. Col­leen Dwyer, a Saint Mary's freshman and niece to Mrs. Dwyer, believes that phone call was tapped and led to her aunt's arrest. "They wanted a scapegoat," Colleen explained, "and my aunt became one for the Iranian revolutionaries." Mrs. Dwyer's arrest came shortly after last year's April 24 failed rescue attempt of the 52 
hostages kept at the American Embassy. 
"technicalnties" in her release. After numerous delays, Cynthia Dwyer finally returned home. 
But what would have happened if the Iranian revolutionaries had not been so eager to release Cyn­thia Dwyer? Would the response by the American public and United States Government officials been strong enough to encourage negotiations for her return, as with her 52 predecessors? 
The U.S. Government was forced to work through Swiss intermediaries for Mrs. Dwyer's release but few comments Wfre made to the public concerning the progress of the negotiations. All national networks, however, mntinually updated the plight of the 52 hostages during their cap­tivity, yet only mentioned 
Mrs. Dwyer's stay at Evin Cynthia Dwyer's case after Prison was closely guarded, the release ofthe 52. When with her family receiving oc­the Americans held at the casional letters from the embassy were finally captive. Both U.S. State released, they were Department and Swiss welcomed back to the Diplomats serving as inter­United States with a three­mediaries for Mrs. Dwyer's day seclusionn with their release visited Mrs. Dwyer families, a White House Christmas Day, but other reception with President visits to the hostage were al­Reagan and have since met most non-existent. for a reunion, with all events While the plight ofthe 52 covered extensively by the hostage at the American Em­press. When Cynthia Dwyer bassy received wide arrived in Buffalo, New publicity throughout their York, she was also greeted captivity, Mrs. Dwyer's by the press but not as 

struggle wasn't made public until early January. A few newspapers and magazines began publishing facts surrounding Mrs. Dwyer's·capture, but the case was na· 
tionally ignored until the 52 were released. The Buffalo Evening News, however, along with WKBW-lV in Buf-, falo, had begun a campaign to obtain 100,000 signatures to urge President Reagan "to secure the safe and early release" of Mrs. Dwyer. The effort was primarily geared at western New York State, but inter­est in Mrs. Dwyer's case spread to various parts of the United States and Canada immediately before her release. The petitions were never needed. Mrs. Dwyer's 
release,  it  seemed,  was  expediated  by  the  
revolutionaries  as  an  effort  to  erase  all  American  
presence from Iran.  
Shortly  before  her  release,  Cynthia Dwyer  was  

charged with espionage by the Revolutionary Court. The journalist, although innocent ofany illegal actions, was convicted as a spy and sentenced to time already served at Evin Prison. Mrs. Dwyer, trying to return to the United States immediately (as ordered by the revolutionaries), was further taunted by her captors, 
beingdriven to her return flight and then denied admit­tance due to what the revolutionaries termed warmly. Mrs. Dwyer ex­
plained that because of the people sht: had met before her imprisonment, she would be happy to return to Iran. She was quoted by The Associated Press, however, as saying she would simply be "happy to return to Iran," eliminating the necessary words to make herselfclear to the American public. 
Students from both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame campuses (lidn't seem too interested in Mrs. Dwyer's release, either. Only I000 students had signed petitions (distributed through Notre Dame's Hall President's Council and posted in Saint Mary's residence halls) at the time ofMrs. Dwyer's release--not much ofan dli>rt for the wift: ofan Notre Dame alumnus (Mrs. Dwyer's husband, John graduated from Notre Dame in 1957) and aunt of Saint Mary's freshman colleen Dwyer. Before Mrs. Dwyer's captivity, one might have believed the ND-SMC community spirit was stronger. 
Now Cy1nthia Dwyer is back in Amhurst writing newspaper articles and a book about traveling as an in­dependent journalist in a politically disturbed country to discover how the capture of53 Americans fit into an explosion of discontent and anger. Mrs. Dwyer's presence in Iran was a small part ofthat explosion, yet she was a part that was almost forgotten. 
_ The_QbserYer_ Design Editor................... Deirdre Murphy Design Assistants......................... Patty fox Tonia Hap Tim Neely Layout Staff. ........................ Randy Kentner Typesetter .......................................... Ron Joe News Editor........................Tim VerceUotti Copy Editors ............................ Pam Degnan Tom Melsheimer Features Layout.............. Gregory Swiercz Sports Copy Editor............. Dave Dziedzic Sports Special Layout ... Gregory Swiercz Typist .............................Cindy "Red"" jones Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley SMC Day Editor............... Mary Kay Hogan Ad Design ..................................... Fran & Co. Pbotograpber ........... Rachel"Bye" Bloom Guest Appearances ........ Unmentionables Mentionables Chris ofthe Dome Rheumatic Fever Other friends ofVer Berkmoes IUustrious Businessman Rich Coppola (But he was very merrv)  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS publiShed Monday through Fr~day except dur~ng exam and vacation per~ods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sam! Marys College Subscr1pt10ns may be purchased for $30 per year ($15 per semester) by wr~tmg The Ob­server, P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame. In· dlana46556 The Observer IS a member of the Assoc1ated Press All reproductiOn r~ghls are reserved  


CAMPUS 
VIEW 
APAR.TMENTS 
NOW RENTING FOR SUMMER 
I BEDROOM-$130 2 BEDROOM-$275 
(monthly rates) special low summer rates: available June-August IS 
utilities paid . central air and heated pool. 
THE place to be off-campus 
for info , call: 272-1441 

The Observer 
Maryknoll priest disappears 
By JEFF CHOPPIN 
Senior StaffReporter 
Fr. Roy Bourgeois, a Maryknoll priest based in Chicago, disappeared in El Salvador last Sunday, where he acted a.o; a translator and fidd con· sultant for Bill Curtis ofWBBM-TV in Chkago. 
According to a spokesman for the Maryknoll order, the group Hour· geols travelled with attended 8 a.m. Ma.'>s in San Salvador and planned to meet in the lobby of their hotel at 
10:30 a.m. At 10 a.m., Fr. Bourgeois told the driver of the press van that he did not feel well was going out to purchase some medicine. He has not bt·en seen since. 
The State Department phoned the Maryknoll group in Chicago on Monday to report Fr. Bourgeois' dis­appearance. Curtis told Maryknoll offidals that no one ha.~ been found who saw Fr. Bourgeois being picked up by anyone. 
In an interview, El Salvadoran Preskknt Jose Napolean Duarte implied that Fr. Bourgt:ois had left El Salvador In order to embarra.o;s Duarte and his administration. A Maryknoll priest said he doubted the truth of this statement as it would serve no purpose for Fr. Bourgeois to leave. 
Duarte, a Notre Dame graduate, reportt-d that he has assigned dett·ctives to the case. The State J>epartmt·nt has not announced a formal investigation of the matter. 
WBBM filming a documentary on the <:hurch's viewpoint in El Sal­vador, intervkwed various groups nmcerning the situation. The US govc:rnment has sent military aid to El Salvador and churt·h groups chargt• that tht· US military aid will only increase the senseless killings in El Salvador. 
Fr. Bourgeois earned a Purple Heart in Vietnam while serving in th .e Navy. Ordained in 1972, he then served five years in Bolivia. In 1977, on his way back to the United States, he pa.o;sed through El Salvador and became interested in the affairs of the country. 
He has been active in the peace movement, according to Notre Dame law student Michael Hag· gerty, and at one time became in· volved in a demonstration at the Pentagon in which authorities ar· rested him. He also worked in Chicago with groups involved in the El Salvador Solidarity movement, people who are "in solidarity for the El Salvadoran people," Haggerty reported. 
During the last year, Fr. Bourgeois did "a great deal" of speaking on El Salvador, according to the Maryknoll official. 
Fr. Bourgeois spoke on El Salvador at Saint Mary's on March 5. The El Salvador Solidarity Group held a prayer service on Monday night in Regina Hall to pray for him. 
Maryknoll is asking that people send telegrams to Secretary of State Alexander Haig and the Foreign Relations Committee chairman Charles Percy. The telegrams are meant to remind those men of the situation in El Salvador and to re· quest that the United States docs not send any more military aid. Another purpose of the telegrams, according to the Maryknoll priest, is to urge the conclusion of the investigation into the nun's deaths. 
Maryknoll will also request that telegrams be sent to University of Notre Dame President Theodore Hesburgh so that he might apply pressure on Duarte to look into Fr. Bourgeois' diappearance. 
The Maryknoll priest said that 'Fr. Bourgeois was aware of the dangers of going to El Salvador and that he had been warned not to travel unac­companied. The priest said "it was unfortunate that he walked out of the hotel alone." 
. Bank 
U.S. supporters ofmultilateral len­ding say the advantages to American policy Interests that are gair;ted from contributing to the lending agencies far exceed the amounts invested. 
Supporters also say the multi­lateral agencies play key roles in recycling petrodollars. Through co· financing with OPEC, the Islamic Development Bank, and the national banks of Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, the ADB has injected funds into Asian economies hard hit by rising oil costs. 
Critics in the United States, 
however, favor unilateral aid specifi· 
cally targeted at problem countries 
like El Salvador. The U.S. voice is on· 
Iy one among 43 member nations in 
the ADB, and American control over 
uses of the bank's money is cor­. respondingly diluted, they say. 
Low interest loans provided by 
the special fund are especially vul· 
nerable to conservative U.S. adv· 
ocates of budgetary stringency who 
oppose any form ofhand~ut. 


HALL Sorin, Walsh, Badin, Howard Morrissey, Lyons 
Fisher, Pangborn, 
Dillon, Alumni Cavanaugh, Zahm 
Breen-Phillips, Farley 
Keenan, Stanford, Lewis Off-Campus 
...• 
,;. 


NDSU 
LOCATION Behind Bookstore 
Basketball Courts behind Lyons 
• 
APRIL 
29  30  
5:00­ 1:00­ 
5:50  1:30  
6:00­ 1:40­ 
6:50  2:10  


---~--~---~ ~­
---------.. 
Thursday, April 30, 1981 -page 3 

Katie Foy and Tbomas Reuter, organizers oftbe SCAC rally yester· day afternoon, are pleasedat tbe turnout. (Pboto by Rachel Blount) 

Randall's Shanghai Resturant 

Luncheon Buffet 
Mon-Sat 11:30 • 3:00 $3.75 Hot dishes, soup/salad ALL YOU CAN EAT 
Chinese Mandarin Dinners 
Mon-Bat 3:00 -10:00 Sunday 12:00 -8:30 
~~~CARRY OUT SERVICE 
•********************************• 
~ APPLICATIONS FOR ~ EMARDI GRAS CHAIRMAN 5 E********** FOR 1982.***********! 
*DUE IN STUDENT ACTIVITES* :flY MAY 6 PLEASE SUBM!J! ::: NAME, NUMBER AND ::: ::: REASONS WHY YOU ::~ 
~!! WANT THE JOB !!!
*** *** 
*** *** 
********************************* 
Mter your lastexam, whattoughquestions will you still befacing? 

W don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One· Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
II 
Contact: Rev. Andre Lev~l\1~. C.S.C. Vocation Director Box 541 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 283-6365 
Behind South Dining Hall 
Next to the Bpnd Hall 
By the Old Fieldhouse 
Behind Stanford 
Campus View 
7:00­
7:50 
8:00­
8:50 
9:00­
9:50 10:00­10:50 
11:00­11:50 2:20­2:50 
3:00­3:30 
3:40­
4:10 4:20­4:50 

5:00­5:30 
j 
The Observer -Continued from page 1 Thursday, April 30, 1981 -page 4 
• • . Invitation 

continuedfrom page I 
opportunities for the handicapped, increased benefits for oil com­panies and defense contractors, and, in general, "a shift from social programs to the military, and a shift of the tax burden to the bur­dened." 
Joseph Buttigieg of the English Department continued the expres­sion ofconcern over the choice of President Reagan as a commence­ment speaker and lauded the stu­dent protesters as the "admirable type" ofstudents "this University is capable of producing." Buttigieg said that, being a "forum for all kinds of views," it would "not be inappropriate for Ronald Reagan to speak here," but, he added, by "honoring Ronald Reagan we are obscuring the fact that human and Catholic values are being downplayed by Ronald Reagan and his administration." Buttigieg dealt patiently with the taunts and jeers ofthe Reagan supporters, but com­mented that it was significant that
~ the "thoughtful document" which was distributed by the sec was answered with a "poster made up 
I [ 
of mono-syllabids." This, said But­tigicg, reflects a serious inability to engage in intellectual debate. 

t 
f 
The final guest speaker w~ts Dr. Peter A. Walshe ofthe Department of Government and International Relations. Walshe's speech was un­derscored by "The Star-Spangled 
Banner," which blared from a nearby Dillon window. Walshe eloquently condemned Reagan's policies, the arms race, decreased aid for the poor, and increased tax incentives for the rich, as "brutal and Darwinian." He charged Reagan's foreign policy as "dealing in Cold War simplicities and in­anities," indescriminately supjport­ing non-communist foreign governments, and abandoning human rights. By allowing Ronald Reagan to speak at commence­ment, Notre Dame would be "being used to legitimize a heart­less and militaristic administra­tion," said Walshe. Rea1~an's invitation to speak at commence­ment, accused Walshe, reflects "arrogant clericalism and aut­horitative corporate mentality" at Notre Dame. He condemned the University for selling its "soul" and alligning itself with the "moneyed and powerful." In closing, Dr. Walshe encouraged the SACC demonstrators to ignore the "boorish, ignorant responses" to 

the rally, and again indicted the University with "clamoring to touch Caesar's hem." 
Interspersed with the various speeches were readings from the Book of Isaiah and Martin Luther King, Jr., a short prayer, and music ~y Mike Hay and Paul Bertolini. The otherwise serious tone of the rally was occasionally upset by the behavior ofthe Reagan supporters, which included the verbal abuse of the speakers and the throwing of oranges, eggs, and smoke bombs at the speakers' platform. 
Dean of Students James Roemer 

was unavailable for comment 
regarding the rally. 
CLC 

continuedfrom page 1 
tacted other universities who have had student!> placed on their Board ot Trustees. He has formed several arguments from speaking with them and has sent a letter to the Student Affairs Subcommittee Chairman 
John Schneider outlining his argu­ment ofthe proposal. 
The CLC proposal "won't be a Passlc," Murday said. "It docs not need a lot of debate. It's a practical thing, common sense." 
Schneider will call the meeting to order, then turn it over to ex-SBP Paul Riehle. Riehle will give his thoughts on the accomplishments of student government this year. He will then turn the meeting over to Murday, who will take control ofthe meeting from that point. 
Murday said that he will describe his vision for next year's student government and his plan to ac­complish that vision. "I will set goals for student government." He said he will re-emphasize Riehle's view­point regarding student involvment. 
This past year's Student Union will also be present to summarize its ac­tivities of the past year and to reveal its plans for next year. 
Murday described the members of the Board of Trustees as being "very receptive." He called them "a brilliant group of individuals who are very concerned with the well­
being of the students." At least four 
of the members have offspring at 
Notre Dame. 
The entire Board will meet on 

Friday after all the committees and 
subcommittees have met to discuss 
business. Executive Vice President 
Fr. EdmundJoyce said that "nothing 
special" will be discussed at the 
meeting. Students and faculty are 
not allowed to attend Friday's 
meeting. 
• • . Dems 

continuedfrom page 1 
tempt March 30. 
Gephardt and other Democrats on the Budget Committee met privately to decide precisely which alternative plan to take to the floor for a vote. 
Committee members said the panel already had decided to sup­port an increase in defense spend­ing to the figure the administration wants. 
They said head counts were in progress to determine whether the conservatives could be enticed back into the Democratic fold by a proposal to balance the budget next year. That would mean postponing planned cuts in per­sonal income taxes until Jan. 1, 
1983. 
But conservative Rep. G.V. 

(Sonny) Montgomery, D/Miss., 
said, "It's really too late now for 
new plans."
• 
-~~ --------~--­
-------~---~--­

The Observer Thursday, April30, 1981 -page 5 

The Bluze /Jrothers will give a benefit concert at 9:30 Friday in wtJShington I/all, to aid the Andy Sowder Scholarship Fund. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
African whites rule on segregationpolicies 
College celebrates Mass at II a.m.  theaters around South Bend.  canned foods, and stores in West  
on the island of Lake Marian,  Saturday, May 9, is "special  Belfast said they were sold out of  
followed by refreshments. Sunday,  event" day for Seniors.  bread.  
from 9 p.m. to II p.m., students  Senior Wcek officially begins on  Police said four men burst into  
receive a discount at U.S.A. Roller  Sunday, May I 0, with I 0:30 a.m.  Belfast's Hospital for Sick Children  
Rink upon showing their lD.  Mass at the Grotto. Sunday night  in the Catholic Falls Road area and  
On Monday, May 4, students can  Erskine's open bar semi-formal is  fled with bundles ofbandages.  
play in a softball game on the  from 9 p.m. to 1:30 a.m.  BelfdSt's Transport Authority  
Credit Union field from I p.m. to 4  Monday, May 11, is Senior Fcl-.  moved buses from its three main  
p.m. The Irish band will be at  low Day at Notre Dame. This year's  depots, fearing they would be used  
Senior Bar from I 0 p.m. to I :30  recipient ofthc award is Rich Hun­ as rioting barricades.  
a.m.  ter. Some Seniors plan a trip to the  Police also continued to round  
On Tuesday, May 5, Lee's happy  dunes.  up Sands' supporters under emer­ 
hour is from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m.  On Tuesday, May 12, Saint  gency powers. A spokesman for  
On Wednesday, May 6, a canoe  Mary's College plans a picnic on  Sinn Fein said 60 activists were  
trip down Saint Joe's River is  the field near the Angela Athletic  being held.  
Faclity from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m.  British security officials claimed  
On Wednesday, May 13, a river­ the arrests have curbed the guerril­ 
boat cruise in Elkhart is from 7 p.m.  las' offensive capability but  
to midnight, with beer and music  conceded they were still capable  
provided.  of inflicting great damage.  
On Thursday, May 14, Notre  The IRA is fighting to drive the  
Dame plans a picnic on Green  British out ofNorthern Iretaqd and  
Field near Senior Bar at 3:30p.m.  unite the province wit~· the  
All Seniors receive a booklet in  predominantly Roman Catholic  
the mail describing these events.  Irish Republic to the south.  
Senior Week T-shirts cost S3.50.  

SUMMER STORAGE SPAOII Special discoun' for RDISMC duclen's Security Patrol ChecJu 



259-0335 
SBLI' LOCK S!OBAGB Of MCKIRL•Y 816 ..., McKinley llishawaka 
o-aseRueR 
f GAP~Gmlft
t GOatiMitDJIGB 
The Best in 

Aged ·Steaks *'PN&iLili~ fiD1t doi&j 6hip6 .. 
120 N. Main Street ell~~ '2l'liDil Downtown, Mishawaka 
(i6 yeO. aile geed ~ ) R1DI1r

255-7737 

for reservations * 'PaUl pe6ifiml Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. 
Dinner 5:00P.M. * CmcWcl 9Db ~ i~­
Closed Sundays & Holidays 

wifk &t~MCJ"'n' nf yetdl llJ8Ilk ,.~ 
JOfiANNESBliRG, South Africa (AP)-The ruling white minority voted yesterday in national elec­tions that could determine whether Prime Minister P.W. Botha will continue his cautious reforms of South Africa's racial sq~rcgatlon policies. 
About half of South Africa's 5 million whites arc registered voters. The country's 23 million non-whites arc denied the right to vote. 
Botha's Nationalist party, which has dominated South African politics for 33 years, was con­sidered a certain victor in the elec­tions. But political analysts were watching voter turnout as an in­dication of how many party right­winger back Botha's moderation of apartheid laws separating blacks and whites. 
Willem Klcynhans, a political science professor at the University of South Africa, said Botha will be In trouble If the voter turnout drops bc:low 60 percent because most stay-aways arc likely w be disgruntled Nationalists. 
The Nationalists, who control I 3 7 of J6'i seats, arc in no danger of losing their majority in Parlia­
ment,  according  to  postal  vote  
counts  provided  by  the  parties  
Tuesday.  

But a low turnout could cost them seats to their main opposi­tion, the liberal Progressive Federal Party. The PFP argues that the Botha government's modest moves to case race discrimination laws arc half-measures that will not prevent an armed confrontation with the black majority. In con­trast, right-wingers In Botha's own party have an·uS<.·d him of making too many concessions by allowing blacks to unionize, increa~ing spc:nding on bla<:k education and t·a~ing some travel and living restrictions. 
Some disatTt'Ctt·d right-wingcrs may swltct-to the ultra-co ·; ·r• . n :'!tigt.e National Party. Tht· IINP has been in the political wilderness since it was founded as an offshoot of the Na­tional Party 12 years ago. But public opinion polls show it ha~ tripled its support since the 1977 elections, and is likely to capture its first scat this time. 
Rioting continues in Belfast 
pcrscd the mobs with plastic bul­John Paul ll's personal emissary,BELFAST, Northern Ireland (AP) lets. There was no immediate the Rev. John Magee, met with -Catholic rioters hurled gasoline 
report of injuries in the clash in Sands for a second time in a hospi­bombs at police and British troops 
north Belfast. tal wing at the Maze Prison in an yesterday in support of Bobby Sands, recently elected to effort to get him to call otT his hun­Sands, the jailed IRA guerrilla 
British Parliament, is in prison on a ger strike. But confirmation was rcporcd so emaciated by 60 days of 
weapons possession conviction. not immediately availablt.·. fasting he was put in a water bed 
He is on hunger strike in a bid to Magee visited Sands at the Maze and taped to keep his bones from 
force the British government to fo~ one hour Tuesday nigl\t and breaking through his skin. 
grant jailed Irish Republican Army returned to the prison yesterdayThe riot~rs set fire to a tobacco 
guerrillas rights that would give after meeting with Britain's topfactory and furniture warehouse 
them political status. minister in Northern Ireland,but firemen extinguished the 
Press Association, Britain's 
Secretary of State flu'mphrey At­
flames and security forces dis-

domestic news agency, said Pope 
kins, who told him Britain would not grant Sands' demands. Sand~. 27, was reported drifting into 1,1nconsciousness frequently.



Senior week planners 
He has dropped from 155 pounds to 90 pounds and was lying on a waterbed with his elbows, knees, heels and ankles bandaged to 
prevent bone from breaking By DIANE SALLEE scheduled from l p.m. to 4 p.m. through skin, British official News Staff Contact Nick Vchr ( 680 l) for sources said. 
more information. Sinn Fein, the IRA's political 
This year's Senior Week ac­Contestants play for prizes on wing, said Sands, who has twice tivities range from special Masses Thursday, May 7, in a golf tourna­received the last rites ofthe Roman to picnics to happy hours. Some ac­ment at the Notre Dame golf Catholic Church, was "extremely tivities relating to Senior Week course. For pre-registration call weak" and could die "at any mo­begin this week. Jeff Whitten at 8696. Thursday ment." 
Coordinators Margaret Burke night is men's and women's night Meanwhile, civil defense com­and Marianne Sweeney start pre­out. Bridget's happy hour is from 3 mittees sprang up in both Catholic Senior Week activities on Friday, p.m. to 9 p.m. Then men meet at and Protestant areas of this British May I, with a happy hour at Fat Lee's and women at Fat Wally's provincial <:apital and mapped 
Wally's from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. from 9 p.m. to 12 p.m. Men and emergency plans for first-aid sta­On Saturday, May 2, the Senior women get together later at Senior 

announce activities 
tions and evacuation centers Alumnae Picnic precedes the Blue­Bar at midnight. 
should Sands die and widespread Gold game, which starts at I p.m. On Friday, May 8, Corby's happy 
violence break out. in the Notre Dame Stadium. hour is at 2 p.m. Friday night, drive­
Shopkeepers in Catholic areas On Sunday, May 3, Saint Mary's in night, Seniors meet at drive-in reported a rush on milk and 
.-· ~.....-w--.........,.......... 

---~~..... ·--._,;. 
Restaurant 
--~~---~~------~---~-------~-------, 
The Observer 
A Boston Experience June 6 -July 5,1981 
111

College age men thinking of priesthood and religious life are invited to live together for 3 weeks and share community, prayer, & ministry in Boston 
Deadline for applying: May 15 
For more information : Fr. Frank Cafarelli, 7113, 1456 or Fr. Bob Wiseman, 1 0 1 Marta Dr. Newark DE 1971 1 
~-----------~~---­
Thursday, April 30, 1981 -page 6 
Layoffs, strikes 

Boston nears bar.tkruptcy 
Travel United Limo To/From Chicago O'Hare Airport 
One Way Fare ..... $22.00 

Deliver to your airline at O'Hare Airport
Round Trip .......... $39.00 O'Hare pick-up at Lower Level Carson Restaurant 
Save over 5u% on Round Trip To and From O'Hare 
New Schedule: NOW LEAVING· ND BUS SHELTER 6 TIMES A DAY 

\/i1111 f!l/t' /tn{ll /tnlll Ulll"c/IU\tl{ IIIIi! '11 1/111« flf .'/!:•/,'' l'lt-a't mal..t· n·-.·natiun' :!~ huur' in ad•ann ''" ahcoul 'Pt·t·iall'harh·r rail'' 
CaD United Limo, Inc. (219)255-3068 
OFFICE, Bittersweet &McKinley, Big Bear Restaurant, Town &Country Center, Notre Dame Bus Shelter, Michiana Regional Airport 
co 

BOSTON (AP) -Hundreds of demonstrators protesting police and firefighter layoffs formed an angry human blockade against rush-hour traffic yesterday while penniless schools stayed open un­der a court order an Boston reeled one day closer to bankruptcy. 
Meanwhile, a city lawyer asked the Superior Court ruling keeping schools in session be overturm:d so politicians can resolve the crisis he claimed will force the city Ito spend money it doesn't have. 

State Supreme Courtjudge RUith Abrams promised to issue a ruling quickly on the request by attorney Stephen Oleskey. 
Earlier in the day, demonstrators blocked several ofthe major roads and bridges leading into the cilty during rush hour. Seveal hundred demonstrators -many of them off-duty and laid-off firefighters ·­took part, with several dozt:n marching arm-in-arm down the middle of the Southeast Expre:s­sway, the major highway for com­muters from the southern suburbs. 
Other bands concentrated on roads that bring traffic from Lhe north. Carrying signs and chantilllg slogans, they blocked the harbor tunnels and a bridge connecting downtown with the Charlestown neighborhood. 
The protests lasted about 90 minutes before police cleared tbe men and women from the paths of oncoming cars. No arrests were made, police said. The protesters vowed to repeat their disruption. 
Proposition 2 (has been blamed for causing many ofthe city's finan­cial problems and exaggerating those it didn't create. The law passed by Massachusetts voters in November limits the amount of money cities can collect through property taxes. 
Because this means a dramatic drop in tax income, Mayor Kevin White is refusing to let the school system overspend its budget as it has routinely done in the past, since it would not be able to recoup the loss through higher taxes the following year. 

"I'm telling you, we're going in­to bankruptcy," White warned in an interview this week in The Bos­ton Globe. "This city will be technically bankrupt by July 1st if nothing is done. Bankruptcy ... from Camelot to Cleveland." 
The city's 64,000-pupil system spent the last of its S21 0 million budget Tuesday. "The cash which is needed to operate the school system is simply not available." 
Oleskey said the intervention of the Superior Court virtually guaranteed the City Council and mayor would not be able to agree on a financial package to keep the schools operating. 
ND jazz bands present 
mini-festival 
The Notre Dame jazz Bands will present their own mini-festival of jazz on Thursday, April 30th at 8 
p.m. in Washington Hall. 
Performing on the program will be three of the groups from the Notre Dame ja:zz Band program ­the Monday Night Big Band, the Tuesday Night Big Band and "Forecast"-a jazz combo. Music will range from big band swing and bop to fusion. 

e&t ~ oh flee K'O/SKtC 1lcooble ~oh flee~ &!cgik ltalfet COPPe.£9A lfC4clwtme bolt flee ope.iHg fmWJd. 
'Oiludl!d by P~ 'Oelfta Sfolce. ~feE~ fJ'UJduclicm i3 a bV0t bolt flee~
11U1Y I. 2. 14 &15 
fix cam 284-4176








8:00 



Thursday, Apri130, 1981 -page 7
Editorials 
P.O. Box Q 
Debate continues over Reagan visit 
lkarl:"ditor: mild approbation to righteous (or his fervent hope that there may greatly disappointed and grieved i.e., the dignity and worth of each 
In n-sponsc to pleas for pan­should I say self-righteous) in­someday be peace with justice, nor over the decision to award Presi­human being, especially those demonium and placard waving dignation. It is as though by his in­has he decided to postpone his ef­dent Reagan an honorary degree poor and powerless whom Our from the.: Students Concerned vitation to the President to forts in that direction duing the on May 17th when he com(.'S on Lord singled out. Is the tla.'ih and about Commencement, I a.oik for participate in the commencement tenure of the Reagan administra­campus for the 1981 commence­glory 
of a Hollywood movie of order and self restraint on Gradua­exercises of the Class of 1981 , Fr. tion. By allowing this university to ment exercist.-s. greater importance than the issue tion I>ay. After four years ofdedica­Hesburgh is perceived as having serve as a fulcrum for the president As a Catholic Sister, joined deep­of human rights at Notre Dame? I tion, s:M:rifice, and commitment, abrogated his stance on human to address the vital concerns ly in spirit to the four courageous don't believe so, but why Reagan the graduates and their f:lmilic:s rights. Ridiculous. Instead of which we will face as members of Sisters murdered so brutally in El now? have earned a solemn and welcoming the President and this society, Fr. Hesburgh advances Salvador earlier this year, I am Would it not be much more fit­mc·aningful commencement. accepting the challenge of con­the cause of intellectual freedom. more than disappointed and ting to invite Sr. Melinda Roper, Graduation belongs to the.: entire structive dialogue, there are those We would do well to follow his grieved. I am very angry. president of Maryknoll, to speak at Notre l>ame community, not to a who would sit in judgment of the lead. It is hard to conceive, no lt.-ss to this year's commencement ex­select few who wish to pursue present administration and refuse Terence]. Coogan understand, how President Reagan ercises and awMd the degree pos­their ideological fervor to the Mr. Reagan the opportunity to ex­SoutbBend can be considered forsuch a distin­thumously to the four true poim ofdisruption. The announce­change with the graduates of the gished honor from an outstanding Chri.'ltians who died witncs..'iing to ment that Pn."Sidem Reagan was to university his ideas about the Catholic university when evidence that which the Gospel and Notre !~peak at graduation was met with future of this Ialnd, a future whih DearEditor: is so clear that the policy he is Dame are truly about? outcries that the ceremony was we must all take a part in building. As a graduate of Notre Dame pursuing is so blatantly contradic­SisterMary Ann KrPss being needlessly turned into a Fr. Hesburgh has not abandoned (Theology '75) I find that I am tory to all we hold dear in ourfaith, Omaba, Neb. 
1 
political pulpit. However, the 
J sc~c obviously intends to inten­sify the parti.'WlShip by making their own political statement 
Reagan invitationdra"'s SCAC disapproval
before and during the ceremony. Rcpdlcss of one's political pn-fen-nccs, the ceremony itself is 
During the past week, a group ganization plan f:lils to provide an topics. It is necessary to have this not an appn1priate forum for 
who call themselves the Students adequate safety net for the truly type of arrangement so that all 
llmuly Fahs
nnvanlly acts of disrespect and in­Concerned About Commence­poor, creates a more regressive tax types of positions can be dis­Milt. By virtue of hi.'i office and ment (SCAC} have been organiz­structure, and rechannels funds for cussed. It is important to remem­achievements. Reagan warrants at 
ing and putting together reasons greater domestic and foreign ber that even though it is very Opinionthe minimum our courtesy and at-
why they feel that Ronald Reagan is spending. Secondly, the Students prestigious for Ronald Reagan to
tention 
unsuitable as a commencement Concerned About Commence­be coming to graduation, com­the arrival of the head of state.
Randall A. Hack 

speaker and recipient of an ment express grave opposition to mencement is a time to honor the Maybe those people who are treat­
Class of1981 

honorary degree. The vast the Reagan administration policy graduates, not add another feather ing us so poorly should take their
Zabmllall 

majority ofpeople see this as an at­ofsending military aid and advisers to the University's cap. It also is not ideals off their mantle and use tack on the presidency, the United to El Savador. Such action is in designed to become a political them in their daily lives.. States, and the ideals ofthe nation. direct conflict with the stand taken sounding block. I think that it's a In the future, we hope that the
[)ftg l!ilitor. 
In reality, we arc not made up of by the American Cathoiic Bishops tragedy that in onler to prevent University will choose someonePresident Reagan has, in the 
a few malcontents, communists, or and the World Council of commencement from becoming a who more fully embodies what
brieftime since he has taken office, 
taken unhesitatingly revolutionaries; we are a group Churches, and more importantly, political spectacle, a group of stu­Notre Dame symbolizes. At this
damaging 

that is concerned about the fosters the ongoing systematic dents had to openly protest. year's commencement, there will
steps to reverse our country's 
meaning of commencement and violation of human rights. Finally, It is also ironic to note that we be such a man: Kurt Waldheim. He
foundling altempts to be a witn(.-ss the University of Notre Dame. the SCAC lament the de-emphasis are being harassed and sometimes has always been a major proponent
to human righL'i around the world. 
Commencement is the last official ofhuman rights by the Administra­treated belligerently by many of world peace and international
tlis use ofEl Salvador's struggle for 
contact that the University has tion, citing policy statements and people who claim to hold in high understanding. It is unfortunate
the rightinr fJfsocial inequalitiesas with a certain group ofgraduating decisions that indicate a profound reganl the ideal of America and that he is not going to deliver the
the proving ground of his new 
students. It is designed to lack ofconcern for the fundamen­Notre Dame. These people are commencement address. Also,
militari.'ilic posture in the world 
symbolize the most noble things tal rights ofall the world's people. trying to preserve the Bill ofRights maybe the students will be asked
arena is an unambiguous denial of that the college has intended for These points are explained in and the U.S. Constitution by for some input before the decision
the <:atholic values that Notre 
the student's education, hoth in greater detail in the information making it difficult for a group of on the commencement speaker is
l>ame represents. 
and out of the classrooms and letter that members of the SCAC students to use it, because we arc made.
I realize that our country bees 
lecture halls. have been distributing across the taking an unpopular position. We arc a group who have stood
complex problems and wounds The commencement speaker campus. America is one of a few nations in up for what we believe in; whetherthat run very deep; I know, too, 
should be an individual who best It is a great honor to have the the world that allow people to use you agree with our stand or not,
that no simplistic analysis or 
exemplifies the University's goals President of the United States the rights which they are we at least deserve to be listened
proposal for change is helpful. I do 
and ideals. A close examination of come to Notre Dame, but wouldn't guaranteed. to and respected in our views.
fed, however, that Notre Dame has 
the Reagan administration shows it be more suitable if he came as a We, the SCAC, are proud to be Randy Fabs, one of the or­
both a civic and religious respon­
that he f:lils to embody those goals regular campus speaker? The Uni­Americans and Notre Dame stu­ganizers of the Students Con­
s.lbillry to serve as a sign and repre­
and ideals. We specifically criticize versity has an open speaker poli<.-y dents; we realize that there are few cerned About Commencement, is
sentaaive of the best of Christian 
three areas of Reagan policy. First which is designed to give varying other places in the world that a freshman rPsiding in Keenan
values. It would no doubt be politi­
of all, the proposed budget reor-opinions on a diverse scope of would allow us to protest against Hall.
cally cxpcdknt for both the presi dent and Notre Dame to have Mr. Reapn a1 the podium next month. I think though that the legitimacy 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
accorded Mr. Reagan and his policies by this nation's foremost <:atholic institution is not worth that gain in pn:scigc: and inftuence to be won for ourschool 1be price to be paid In this nchange is the value of Notre Dame and the American Church as potential spokesmen for the poor and o~d In our country and in the inrernational community. 
Fr. Alan}. Crowley Cascade, Colo. 

lhaTblltor: 
What I do not find curious, but rather disappointing. is that the protests against R(.-ag;an as com­mencement speaker ranged from 

Editorial Board and Department Managers


==Ihe_-Obset:ver== 
l:"tlill>r-in-Chief.........................................}ohn McGrach SIHC Executive Editor .....................Mary Agnes Can-y
Box Q, Nolrt! Dame, JN 46556 
.Wt1naging fdilor ......................................:·omJackman SMC Nrws Editor ................................Cathy Domanico
The Observer is an independem newspaper published h~ the studenro., of the 
Executtr•e .Veu•s Editor ..............................Lynne: Dale:)' Pboto l:"ditor..................................................John Macor University of Notre Dame du La~ and Saint Mary's Colle~t· I~ _does nm nen·so.,anh 
:Veu•s I::tlilor .............................................Tim Vc:rcc:lloni 
reflect rhe policies of the adm1msrrauon of elt~er mstJtution. I he news Is n·porred .Veu•s l:"tlill>r ................................................. John Uiggins Business !ola~U~gn ................................Rich Coppola 
as accurardy and as objecuvdy as possible_ Eduonals represent the opm1011 of a Senior Copy Editor ........Mary Fran Callahan Controller.......................................................p MuUiur majoriry of rhe Editorial Board. Commenranes, opm10ns, and leuers are rhe vtews Sports Editor ...... :.................. . ............ Mi~·hac:l Onman Advertising !tlanager .................: .................... Mark EUis of their aurhors. Column space IS available to all members of the communtt~·. and Fet1tures Editor............................... ..........Rick Hermida Production ltlunager ................... Ryan Vc:r Bcrlr.fll(Xs Circulation Manager ........................Tom Macl.c:nnan
rhe free expression of varying opinions on campus, through leuers, is encouraged. 
~-~ -~ ­

..----------------------------­


Features 

Thursday, April30, 1981 -page 8 
Opus Novum 1981 
W 
ho would have thought that O'Shaughnessy Gallery would one day be compared to a com­bination health spa and jungian institute located some­where in the mountains ofZurich? Yet that physically rejuvenated, mentally energized feeling is exactly what overcomes one after viewing Opus Novum, an exhibi­tion ofselected works by Notre Dame art majors. Some ofthe freshest work the art department has to to offer can be seen in this show which runs until May 17, 1981. 
To review an exhibit ofworks in such an eclectic ar­ray ofmediums, augurs frustration as well as a chal­lenge. Frustration, in that all the real jewels in this show cannot be discussed at proper length. And a challenge in that, how does one 'beg to differ' with the well­trained eyes ofthe department faculty, who chose these worksfor their substantial merit, without seemingpom­pous? 
I am therefore, predisposed to justify myselfby saying that I judge 'art' by its ability to make me move beyond its physical limits in search ofits essence. Ifthis is my yardstick for confronting art, then works in Opus Novum range from the mundane to the magical. 
One ofthe first pieces of'magic' is Henderika Akker­
man's "W.C. and W.C. Colage." At once striking and im­
mediately accessible, this watercolor integrates ripped 
fragments ofrice paperand an irregular white cross, on 
a field ofethereal blues and reds. This work has a 
religiosity all its own. It evokes a wonderful feeling of 
stillness, ofinner sanctuary, not dependent upon the 
cross as much as on the soft, almost serene, colors 
which allow one to experience the simple image with­
out disrupting the whole. Akkerman is very aware ofher own maxim that "there is a fine line between simple and boring," and bridges this gap with her creative decision to addJapanese rice paper. This applied paper produces a subtle rhyme between image and surface, making this piece not only a·pleasant oasis for the spirit but a visual intrigue as well. 
Visually intriguing is Teri Larkin's tonally rich lit­hograph entitled, "Cootie Mania."Judging from this and her other submission, Larkin has an uncanny knack for making very ordinary inanimate objects, surprisingly animate. However, there is a real uneasiness about the way these 'souls' inhabit their new, synthetic bodies. In "Cootie Mania," one senses frightened spirits gone mad as dismembered cooties are strewn across the composi­tion, over a twisted tortured form that occupies the central space. Those once harmless, plastic playthings ofa child, become bearers ofunbridled destruction. A single 'surviving' cootie stands as an ominous caveat to all who approach it. Yet this small creature's imposing stance while guarding the 'injured and dead' does not mask its inner fragility; meaning perhaps to recall those many photographs showing the survivors ofdisaster, with their knotted expressions ofdefiance mixed with sheer panic. 
Patrick Melnick's oil on canvas still-life, is one ofthe more unsettlling but exciting pieces on display. Adapt­ing a Cezann1~sque conception, Melnick imposes upon the viewer a large table placed on an unnervingly precipitous slant, stocked with apples. Normally a frame assures us ofthe fundamental distinction be­tween art, illusion and real life, so that one doesn't act in the way ofthe other. However, Melnick's frame grants 
************************************ 
llcllll Wc1ll~1 
************************************ 
"Cockroaches on Parade" probably doesn't sound like the title ofan album for a serious musician, but then again at Stages Music Hall in Chicago, they introduced this man as Harry Waller-he just doesn't care!! 
Waller, a self-proclaimed "punk-folk" artist will bring his zaney music to Chautauqua on Sunday, May 3 in the new coffeehouse's final show ofthe year. 
Playing his music and telling his tales, Harry Waller is living evidence ofthe Windy City's tremendous devotion to folk culture. His new Cockroaches album is on the nationally syndicated Dr. Demento Radio Show. He has played alongside such Chicago folk greats as Corky Shegel, Steve Goodman,John Prine, Doc Watson and Comman­der Cody. 
His strong folk roots have broadened into a new comedy base which leaves the audience rolling in the aisles. His entertainingstyle is often honest and sometimes frank. His new song about the feline per· suasion really gt·ts down to the nitty gritty: 
They gc awund purrin and drop all their fi.1r in your cat meal. They sneak aroum' 1hc house, plop down on the couch. And in the alley they lick d•:ad rats. And if you kiss 'em cause they're cute well it makes me want to puke, you got rat germs on your face. 
This outrageous and offthe wall candor blends with the down home Chicago folk style to provide musical and comedic entertainment at its' best. "I think Chicago has the hest-most active folk scene in the whole countrv rtght now''. says Waller who at age 27 has made a reputation for himself as a hater ofcats and a student ofcockroaches. Harry cordially invites c:veryone to stop by and for a little while before finals, not to care for awhile. 
Harry Waller at Chautauqua May 3, 9:00·12:00. 
***********************************~ 
Jurn()~~~ tiltt? Sc1clcll~ 13clt~ cl 
***************,""*******************~ 
T
his Friday and Saturday, another big midwestern band,Jump'n the Saddle, comes to Chautauqua to bring their special blend of up tempo music with a country swing base. 
Their seven piece arrangement, from sax to pedal steel guitar comes at the listener with a pleasing and entertaining style that gets everyone's feet a stompin andl hands a clappin. Based in the Chicago area,Jump'n the Saddle has played alongside the national artists As­leep at the Wheel and on occasion upstaged them with their lively show. 
The Saddle Band plays a good country jazz, akinned to Bob Wills and the Texas Playboys or Hank Williams. Their talents have been dibbed as the best country swing band this side ofTexas, even mixing some blues In with their varied rendition. 
Recent engagements include the Music Box, Wise Fools, and Minstrels Alley. They've just c:ompleted work on a new album to be releasedsoon. So stop up to Chautauqua this weekend and see what is guaranteed to be an outstanding show. 
Jump'n the Saddle Band at CHAUTAUQUA. 


Thursday, April30, 1981 -page 9 
Terri Cafaro 
tttngesfrom mundane to magical 
us no such benevolent protections from his apples, which are sure to fall at any moment on our sandalled roes. The so over-used pink and green color motif that fills the closetsofourcollege coeds, and graces most of our suburban bathrooms, takes on a new efficacy when Melnick employs it to suppon the content ofhis work. The too hot, pink tablecloth screams a warning In an­ticipation ofthe fluorescent green balls unprecedented leap offthe canvas. 
Relnhan once remarked that sculpture is something you bump into when you back up to look at a painting. Joseph Murphy's metal sculpture hardly allows for such a fumbling move, as It commands a powerful presence ofits own. It Is an open, hexagonal form, sprayed black in the minimalist tradition ofTony Smith. It is minimal In that It demands that you perceive It as a whole, but it Is a minimal with more. There is something innately masculine about it (a statement which is meant to reach far deeper than the normal connotations ofthe word ·masculine'). It is a mechanical shape, suggesting not a pan from an old lawnmower but a piece to some son of 
encounters the 'suppons' ofthis table: three legs that are tapering to a point which should be too narrow to endure the weight ofthis sculpture. To put it mildly, Madden's table disturbs, denying us those predictable moments ofrecognition that are woven into our ex­perience ofa table. 

Ifone is repelled by this tension, and tempted to walk away...do. But witlk in the direction ofher other works, for perhaps the key to dealng with Madden's individual pieces, is to discuss their force as a whole. 
Ceramic/wood birds and glazed combs arc recurring objects which are treated like precious artifacts, as they are sacredly placed in beautifully laminated chests. Madden herselfoffers some explanation to her puzzling iconography, but not without a tinge ofhesitancy. It is imponant ot her that the viewer's interpretation is not lost, or overrun by the artist's. 
Madden proffers the information that a turning point in her life was when as a 26-year-old, she realized that she did not know how to wield a hammer. Suddenly feeling like a toddler, she was forced to respond to the 

·osmic space shuttle. The heaviness implied by Its 
lackness is denied when the form invens itsel[ A aradox made palpable Murphy's sculture is an ex­
perience In more than three dimensions. Also in the realm ofsculpture, is David Lobdell's ted ceramic piece, "Old Wave." Whether the title is 
cant to be held In contradistinction to the latest 20th 
·entury craze called 'new wave' or not, "Old Wave" is lea.'iingly out-of-sync with our times. If'new wave' onjures up riveting. shocking spectacles full ofrazor lades and broken glass, Lobdell's sculpture is otewonhy for Its easy, flowing form, evoking a fossil· 
Ike calm. In the spirit ofa captured wave, this work has sense ofperpetual advent, ofsomething into being. It s passionately alive, though locked in stone. 
Eileen O'Meara's untitled color photo, on the other and, has not missed a beat with the 1980's. An almost ure exploration In design, It Is funky and figurative. A 
·elluloid frame oftwo nylon-clad feet, In fuschia sllp­'1'!1, standing on a blue title, Is juxtaposed against an mage ofa swan serenely paddling out ofthe picture. 
othlng predictable about this one. It is a homage to all hose puzzles missing a single piece. O'Meara's work akes a commendabk chance with all that It does not 
The section devoted to photography as a whole, is 
arkcd (not In the negative sense) by a feeling of ver­tigo and rushing; causing us to continually question the space that we occupy, just to make sure that ourfeet are anchored to the ground. Unlikely camera angles, slow shutter speeds, and advanced darkroom techniques of­fer us a new opportunity to look at and evaluate the most ordinary ofbuildings-those concrete 
memorials to our urban culture. 
Ifone accepted my earlier maxim for what 'an' is, then it will be well understood why I chose the highly original works of Elizabeth Madden to be some ofthe strongest, most evocative pieces in the show. 
"Mr. Bupp's Night Table" is a triangular wood table that ha.'i. resting on its surface. a serene grouping of ceramk ducks. However, this initially peaceful impact ends abruptly, when our eyes move downward, notic· ing an open drawer whose sides protrude in such a way so a'i to nevt·r allow it to be closed. Further dowm, one fact that her female experience had not prepared her with the simple knowledge ofhow to operate even this most rudimentary oftools, that every male was given the secret to at an early age. (Simone de Beauvoir points out that with the fabrication oftools, man could employ his muscular advantage and physical domination of nature, thus reinforcing his autonomy.) Tools for Mad­den became symbols ofpower, transforming her combs (symbols ofvanity, feminine 'tools') into loaded metap· hors. The birds in her work are mere reminders of the fact that the male bird is normally the more decorative and attractive; superficial qualities that are engrained in our definition ofwhat is 'feminine.' 
It would do her work a great disservice to explicate any funher. They ate provocative pieces; meant to dis· turb you, unease you, challenge all the 'knowns' in your reality. Her works hand out no free answers, only probing questions, whose resonance will be felt long af­ter you leave the gallery. 
An exhibit Ike this does have its shoncomings. Aside 
from some rather slip-shod matting, the show oc­
casionally falls victim to pretty sentimentality. Dull sub­
ject matter, masked in sweeping color, or no color, and 
then placed In ambiguous settings, does nothing more 
than make a weak paintingor etching vaguely dramatic. 
However, the most problematic feature ofthe entire show, for me, was(Madden's work excluded) a curious absence ofart with any social or political import. It surprised me that at a university so apparently involved with social justice and political attitude, that its art neil· her negated nor affirmed our society and its values. Pos­sibly this conspicuous void is reflective ofwhat is happening to art on the larger scene. Possibly it is only indicative of the attitudes ofthe N.D. artists or the jurying faculty. Whatever the case may be, delicate, complex questions can be raised; questions which are beyond the intent ofthis article, but hopefully, not beyond the minds ofthe discerning viewer. 
Still, Opus Novum is a compendium ofprivate pieces 
that will at once ask the distant viewer to draw closer, 
and look deeper. Such an intimate involvement with 
any ofthese works is your reward. This show is 
deserved ofa lca~t two time slots on your fast-filling 'day 
by day' calendars. 



Photos by Rachel Blount 

~---­

...-----
--~---------------­
Thursday, April30, 1981-page 10
7The CObs.erYer 




Today================================
Campus 

•4 
p.m. -radiation lab semi­nar, "optical and magnetic properties of electrodes," dr. james I. dye, mich. st. u., radia­tion lab confrence room. 

•4:30 
p.m. awards ceremony, naval rotc, mem. library auditorium. 

•7.9,11 
p.m. -film, "life of brian," engineering aud., sponsored by sernper fidelis society. 

•7:30 
p.m. -film, "woyzeck," annenberg aud., sponser: dept. ofcommunication and theatre. 

•8 
p.m. -lecture, alexander ginzburg, soviet dissident, memorial library auditorium, sponsored by student union academic commission. 

•8 
p.m. -soprano nancy wandland, little theatre smc, sponsor: dept. of music. 

•8 
p.m. -n.d. jazz band presents "dimensions in jazz," washington hall. 

•8 
p.m. -rome slide show, ar­chitecture building steps, all invited. 


•8 p.m. -ballet, "coppelia," .....o'laughlin aud., smc. 
•8:15 p.m.-lecture, "harry s. truman and the imperial presidency," prof. ferrell, ind u. of bloomington, galvid aud., sponsored by dept. ofhistory. 
Arkiespresent slide show 
On Thursday, April 29, the fourth year arkies will present a slide show of their year in Europe. The presentation will focus on the class in Rome last year as well as travels throughout Europe.
-. 
This slide show is being presented 
primarily for the sophomore arkies who will jet off to Rome in a few months. However, any interested ND/SMC student (i.e., the 79-80 SMC Rome program) is invited to at­tend. 
The presentation will take place on the steps of the architecture building at 8 p.m. Should the weather prohibit this, the show will be in the architecture auditorium, room 202. Refreshments will be served following the show. 
NDISMC shuttle makes last run 
The ND/SMC shuttle bus will make its last run for the semester on May 12, 1981, Tuesday. There will be no service after May 12. 
The Weekend Entertainment Van lines will end after its last scheduled run on Saturday May 2, 1981. 
Dr. T. Werge receives award 
Dr. Thomas A. Werge, chairman and associate professor in the Departmec-nt ofEnglish at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, has been selected by a student-faculty com­mittee to receive the 1981 Father Sheedy Award for excellence in teaching. The award, which includes a J 1,000 prize, will be presented during a meeting of the College of Arts and Letters Advisory Council October2. 
The Sheedy Award honors a for­
I_ 
mer dean of the College of Arts and Letters. Recipients of the award prepare a brief talk in which they share ideas on teaching and learning at the time ofthe presentation. 
Molarity Michael Molinelli 

ACROSS 26 Guido's 1 Tie breaker note

The Daily Crossword 
8 Fleet 27 Art 13 Pertaining 28 Removed to the side the center 14 Greek 29 Sumptuous dialect meal 16 Personof 30 Rivalof 


eminence Sparta 17 Canal 31 Divulges country secret 
18 Seed 34 Sample 
covering 35 Abscond 
19 Swan genus 36 Oxidizes 
21 Cardinal 37 Disgrace 
number 38 -NaNa 
22 Argot 41 Hill 
23 Bid dwellers 
25 Mah-jongg 42 Vine 
piece 43 Genuine 
Wednesday's Solution 

All Rights Reserved 

4/J0/81 

BLUEM 


Alexander Ginzburg Soviet I»issident Speaking on: 
Editor. Asst. Editor.CopyEditor. 
CopyWriter. PhotographyEditor. 

The Continuin.'r Human Rights 
StruKKle in. the USSR 
Business Manager 

April 30, 1981 8 :00pJm.library Auditorium 
Workshop-Question and Answer Perioo 
May1, 1981 10:OOa.m. library Lounge 

Need a tide to Philly 

~~ 
Admission for both is free



aftet finals? 

.~~ 
Sponsored by
stllltoom on the Philo. Club bus. 
Student Union Academic O:>mmission 
and Committee on Academic Progress
Call 8111 at 3721 


44 Daughter 23 Clerical 
of Cadmus garment 45 Merit 24 Partake of 46 Bridal no food 
path 25 ltemsin 47 Manage Caesar's 49 Havinga wardrobe 
striking 27 Cornishmen eHect 28 Crinkled 52 Seize fabric 
suddenly 29 Boxing 53 Restricted weapons 54 Songs with­30Boa 
outaccom­31 lmpressiYe­paniment ly beauti­55 Issue ful 32 Pertaining 
DOWN to rural 1 Multiple life 2 Thinplate 33 Vivacity 3 Leaningto 36 Incursions 
oneside 37 Title 4 Yearnings 38 Six-line 5 Mouths stanza 6 Distant 39 Compound of 7 Loseone's a certain 
temper element 8 Flavor 40 Fish sauce 9 Endure 42 Thin strips 
10 Unit in of wood physics 43 lariat 11 Pressing 45 Behold! 
item 46 ldi 12 Unending 48 French 15 Flogged season 16 Alencon 50 Edge 

The Observer -Sports Thursday, April 30, 1981 -page 11 




NCAA announces bowls 
MISSION, Kan. (AP) -The Na­
tional Collegiate Athletic Associa­
tion Wednesday announced that IS 
post-season football bowl games 
have been re-certified and two 
others have been added to the NCAA 
list. 
The association said the Sugar Bowl as being switched from New Year's Day to New Year's night, set­ting up television confrontation with the Orange Bowl, which is traditional New Year's night fare. 
In announcing the lineup, the 
NCAA's Post-season Football Com­
mittee said the 1980-81 post-season 
games generated 5275 mlllion in 
gross revenue, of which 5215 mil­
lion went to NCAA member institu­
tions. 
The committee also announced 
that the Fiesta Bowl was being 
moved to I:30 p.m. EST New Year's 
Day 
One of the new bowl games cer­tified by the NCAA will be the California Bowl, which will be played in Fresno Dec. 19, matching champions of the Mid-American Conference and the Pacific Coast Athletic Association. 
The second new game certified is the Pineapple Bowl, whkh is 
• • . leers 
continuedfrom page 16 
rarely get around him. He should cover well for us in front of the net next year." 
Regan, "i-I I, 180 pounds, was voted all-conference and all-city at Hill Murray High School both his junior and senior years. He totaled 
I I goals and 29 assists this season and has an impressive classroom record also. He ranks in the top I 0 percent of his class and is a mem­ber ofthe National Honor Society. 
"We got one of the premier dcfenseman in Minnesota this year when we got Regan," said Moher. 
Woyzeck Dir. by Werner Herzog (Germany) 1978 Klaus Kinski seems to have been born to play this role, originally the product of Georg Buchner's pen in 1836, just a few months before the playwright's death at the age of 
23. A torchbearer of modernism, this great work is given yet another dimension by the direction of one of the most significant artists of the New German School. 
Thursday, Apri/30 MUSEUM OF ART 
7:30 pm admission Sl.OO 
sponsored by the ND-SMC ~~COMMUNICATION & THEATRE:~~ 
North Quad dorms hold donkey basketball game 
ByJIMLEOUS dorm equally represented on the Sports Writer roster. Both-sides will be allowed three time-outs with an unlimited 
Now that the Bookstore games number ofinjury time-outs. 
are over, several dorms on the Cavanaugh coach, Mike "Leo" North Quad will explore a new Desrosiers expects everyone to dimension of the game of basket­have a good time. "These donkeys ball as the Cavanaugh-Farley team are trained for this game, but clashes with the Breen-Phillips­they're still very stubborn," says Zahm team in a slow-paced game Desrosiers. "Many of the players of Donkey Basketball. The game will have difficulty maintaining wlll be held tomorrow at 7:30p.m. their balance. Needless to say, they at Stepan Center. will have trouble shooting. 
The game will be played by stu­When asked about his team's dents in the saddles of real stategy, coach Derosiers said, "I donkeys. The rules ofthe game are think that both sides will be equal­
similar to those of regular basket­ly inexperienced in this type of ball except all shots must be taken basketball, but we do have a secret while sitting in the saddle, all loose weapon. We're expecting a lot balls must be retrieved while hold­from Mark "The Bull Rider" Witte. ing on to the donkey, and, for. ob­Mark has won numerous mechani­vious reasons, there will be no cal bull riding contests and should three-second lane. Due to the be a big factor in Friday's match­
nature of tl;le game, inches often up." Desrosiers also cited his per­turn into miles as players try to sonal experiences with "stubborn, retrieve lost balls. unrulely animals." 
Each team will consist of five 
Tickets for the classic arc $2 and players and five donkevs with each 
can be purchased at the door. 

TtiURSQAY NI2HT FIL~ ~ERIE . 

ARMY ROTC PROVIDES 
Merit scholarships up to $20,000 t£~ 
leadership development 
Management training Adventure Employment opportunity (219)283-6265 
Graduc.te from Notre 12 ame as an Army Officer 

With Bookstore Basketball completed, Domers will experience Donkey Basketball tomorrow. See story at left. 
BARCLAY'S MEAT &PRODUCE RESTAURANT • 52885 U.S. 31 NORTH SOUTH BEND. IN 46637 
Since our inception in 1969, il ha' been rhc philo,oph)' of Barclay's thar studcn1" make oul\towding ~mploycc.... 
Our company, Continental Rc\laurant Sy\tCm\, i!r~ prc:\cnlly expanding throughout the United Statr.. Locally, we will employ 140 to 160 people both full and part time, da) or niKhl. 
We are currently accepting applications for: 
Food Waiters & Waitresses Cocktail Waitresses Hostesses Busboys/Busgirls Dishwashers Cashiers Bartenders Secretaries Broiler Cooks Food Prep Maintenance Men Management Trainees 
Barclay's provides an excellent opportuniry for fun and lucrntiv~ job~. 
Apply in person between 8:00a.m. -5:00p.m. Monday through Saturday. 
Due to various state labor law!!., we arc forced to set a minimum age of 18. Interested?? 
Barrhl)''s Meal & Product' Redauranl 52885 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 
An Equal Opportunity Employ<r 

scheduled for Christmas Day, 1982, in Aloha Stadiumf, Honolulu, Hawaii. 
The I S bowls that were re­certified along with locations and starting times (all EST) arc: 
Bluebonnet Bowl, Houston, Dec. 31,8 p.m.; 
Cotton Bowl, Dallas, Jan. I, 2 p.m.; 
Fiesta BowL Tempe, Ariz., Jan. 1., 1:30p.m.; Garden State Bowl, East Ruther­ford, N.J., Dec. 13, 12:30 p.m.; Gator Bowl, Jacksonville, Fla:., Dec. 28, 9 p.m. Hall of Fame Classic, Birmingham Ala., Dec. 31, 2 p.m.; Holiday Bowl, San Diego, Dec. 18, 
9p.m.; Independence Bowl, Shreveport, La., Dec. 12, 8 p.m.; Liberty Bowl, Memphis, Dec. 29 or 30, 8 p.m.; Orange Bowl, Miami, Jan. I, 8 p.m.; Peach Bowl, Atlanta, Dec. 31, 3 p.m.; Rose Bowl, Pasadena, Calif., Jan. I, 5p.m.; Sugar Bowl, New Orleans, jan. I, 8 p.m.; Sun Bowl, El Paso, Texas, Dec. 26, 3p.m.; Tangerine Bowl, Orlando, Fla., Dec. 19,8 p.m. 
.'i, "e Ely 



Sports Special -Irish NFL Draftees Thursday, April30, 1981 -page 12 
Tim Huffman (78) and linematejohn Scully (57) were among six Irish players 
drafted by NFL clubs this week. 

By MICHAEL ORTMAN 
Sports Editor 
The bitter disappointment ofbeing bypassed through Tuesday's first six rounds turned quickly into sincere enthusiasm yes­terday for Tim Huffman. The Green Bay Pack­ers called on Huffman just after 11 a.m. to inform him that they had selected him with the sixth pick ofthe ninth round. 
"Is this Tim Huffman?" 
"Yes." 
"Hey fatso, we drafted ya." 
The voice on the other end was the Packers' 
offensive line coach Ernie McMillan, who 
knew Huffman from a recent physical ex­
amination. 
"I'm really happy about the way things 
worked out," Huffman said honestly. "It may 
be cold up there, but it's really beautiful 
country. And no matter what people might 
think, they have really good fans. Ifyou work 
hard, you're dedicated and you put yourselfto 
the task, they'll be understanding." 
And as the 6-5, 277-pound offensive lineman, nicknamed "Tiny," realized quickly, Green Bay no doubt will be a land ofoppor­tunity for him. "I'd much rather be drafted by a club where I'll have a chance to play. The Packers are a growing ball club, and I really believe I'll have as good a chance as anybody." 
Green Bay officials are quick to agree. "We 
had a lot ofinjury problems last season," a 
team spokesman said yesterday. "IfTim can 
play up to his potential, yes, I'm sure he not 
only will make this team, but make a sig­
nificant contribution." 
Name: Tim Huffman Position: Guard Height: 6-5 Weight: 265 Home: Dallas, Tex. Major: Marketing Drafted by: Green Bay Round/Pick: 9th/6th 
The Packers plan on moving Huffman from the guard slot he filled for Dan Devine, to tackle, where he will help protect quarter­back Lynne Dickey. "We hope to groom Tim into a possible replacement (in the future) for Mark Koncar," the spokesman said. Koncar, a superb lineman, has been plagued by injuries throughout his five-year NFL career, and spent most ofthe last two seasons on the injured reserve list. 
Ofcourse, Huffman struggled with his fair share ofinjuries this year. After breaking a bone in his foot in August, he returned to active duty for the October 11 Miami (Fla.) game. After playing four downs in that con­test, Huffman lasted through the Army and Arizona contests before re-fracturing the same bone in the first halfofthe Navy game. 
The foot once again was removed from the cast, this time a week before the Sugar Bowl, and Huffman played admirably in New Or­leans. He then played well in the East-West Shrine Game before turning down other all­star game offers as a precaution for his still­tender foot. 
"I don't really think that (the injury) had a whole lot to do with why I was drafted so late," explained the Dallas, Tex., native. "All the scouts that have seen me over the past two months, know I'm healthy. I think the biggest reason that I wasn't drafted until the ninth round, was that there is a general feeling throughout the league that Notre Dame players aren't pushed in weight-training programs. 
"My whole feeling about that is that you don't bench press defensive linemen. I think they put way to mud• ··mphasis on lifting." 
The Packers' mini camp for rookies begins on Sunday, May 17. "I don't think I'm gonna be there," said the marketing major, with a smile. "I think I'd like to graduate that day." 
You can be sure that "Tiny" will be there 
first thing Monday morning. 

Name:John Scully Position: Center Height: 6-5 Weight: 255 Home: Huntington, N.Y. Major: Economics Drafted by: Atlanta Round/Pick: 4th/26th 
By CHRIS NEEDLES 
Sports Writer 
To his teammates, to many Notre Dame fans and to his coaches, John Scully was almost God-like. The running backs loved the gaping holes he opened up for them to run through, the students went ape whenever he raised his arms to garner crowd support, and his bosses loved the enthusiasm and leadership he dis­played in his role as tri-captain. 
But apparently, the NFL general managers and scouts felt differently. 
Scully, Notre Dame's all-everything center last season, was reduced to mere mortal status in Tuesday's opening six rounds ofthe NFL Draft. While the experts felt he wa& a certain first-or second-round choice, Scully had to wait until the end ofthe fourth round, the 109th pick overall to be exact, until he finally was selected by the Atlanta Falcons. 
To add to the insult, the Falcons' current center isJeffVan Note, who was only an All­Pro last season, as the Falcons captured the NFC Western Division title before dropping their opening playoffgame to Dallas, 34-31. 
So, where does Scully fit into all ofthis? "Van Note was in the Pro Bowl last year, 
that's true," explained Falcon publicity direc­tor Charlie Dayton. "But he is a 13-year veteran, and while he doesn't plan on retiring next year, we have to be looking for a poten­tial replacement. We'll try to groom Scully as a sort of'heir apparent' to Van Note." 
Ofcourse, the question on everyone's mind is, why wasn't Scully drafted until the fourth round and after three centers had already been taken? 
"Scully's major drawback (according to -scouting reports) was that he doesn't snap for punts," said Dayton. "We like his toughness and the fact that he plays with a lot ofpride, but we have to take everything into account." 
Scully, ofcourse, was less than pleased at 
being drafted so low. When reached for com­
ment at a friend's home in Joliet, Ill., Scully, 
who received his degree in economics from 
Notre Dame in)anuary, said that while he was 
disappointed at the results, "that seems to be 
the way the draft usually works. There seems 
to have ll>een a question about my strength, 
along with the long snaps, and they're both 
valid reasons. 
"But I see no problems in making the team. I'm pleased that I'm going to a team ofAt­lanta's caliber, and I know it'll ~e hard to fit in right away. I've been working on my strength and on the snapping drills, and I've got con­fidence in my own ability, so I don't forsee any problems. 
"I've had to work hard all my life for every­
thing I've gotten," he continued, "so I'm used 
to this situation." 
Besides being a blow to his pride, Scully figures that his fourth-round selection may cost him a little bargaining leverage when it gets around to talking about contracts and sig­ning bonuses. "I'm disappointed that it will probably lower my contract demands a little," said Scully. "Football, for me, is a business now, and it makes me mad that I'm losing a little money on the deal." 
Spoken like a true econ major. 


By I<'RANK LaGROTTA 
Sports Writer 
"He's a great athlete; the kind any football team loves to have on its roster. We are pleased to have him and we expect him to make quite an impact in camp." 
Thus spoke San Diego Chargers head coach Don Coryell after his club drafted Notre Dame's Pete Holohan in the seventh round of the annual National Football League player draft. Holohan, who Coryell likens to San Diego's all-pro tight end, Kellen Winslow, will report to the Charger's rookie camp this weekend in San Diego. He knows he has his work cut out for him. ' 
"I'm very happy to be going with a solid club like San Diego" said Holohan from his home in Liverpool, N.Y. "I realize they have a lot ofgreat receivers, but I'm anxious to begin. 
"I'm confident in my ability and I welcome the challenge oftrying to make a club like that." 
Name: Pete Holohan Position: Flanker HeiJ~t: 6-5 WeiJght: 228 Hon[le: Liverpool, N.Y. Major: American Studies Drafted by: San Diego Round/Pick: 7th/23rd 
Hololilan, who caught 63 passes for 983 yards at Notre Dame, was drafted as a tight end according to Ric Smith, the Chargers' public relations director. He played flanker for the 
Irish. He was the second tight end selected by San Diego following Maryland's Eric Sievers, who w:as taken in round four. 
"Eve.ryone here thinks Pete has a great shot at making our club," relayed Smith. "We will have an open position at the tight end slot and Pete will have ample opportunity to prove himself 
"Ofc·ourse there will be plenty ofcompeti­tion," Smith continued. "But coming from a school like Notre Dame, Pete should be used to that." 
Holohan, the first high school athlete in New York history to be named first-team all­state in both football and basketball, is in an ideal situation for a receiver. San Diego is a passin~: team that threw the ball 589 times last 
, season, compared to 509 attempts on the 
ground. And Holohan will be on the receiving end ofall-pro quarterback Dan Fouts' aerials -something that should give him an ad­vantage when it comes to showing off his 
wares. 

"We're happy we drafted Pete, and we ex­pect h1im to do well for us," said Smith. "He'll have the opportunity. What he does with it is entirely up to him." 

Sports Special -Irish NFL Draftees Thursday, April 30, 1981 -page 13 

..... ·( 

Name: Scott Zettek Position: Defensive End Height: 6-5 Weight: 245 Home: Elk Grove Village, Major: Psychology Ill. Drafted by: Chicago Round/Pick: 8th/12th 
By GARY GRASSEY 
Sports Writer 
Scott Zettek finally got a chance to play a full season offootball for Notre Dame last fall, but the lingering notion that his next play from scrimmage could be his last had to be on the minds ofthe NFL teams making their an­nual two-day draft yesterday and Tuesday in New York. 
The first-team, All-America defensive end from Elk Grove Village, Ill., was made the 12th pick ofthe eighth round yesterday by his hometown club -the Chicago Bears. 
As far as Zettek is concerned, his late selc­tion was attributable to the question marks surrounding the condition ofhis knees­both ofwhich have undergone one round of surgery during his career. 
"Ability-wise I think I'm as good as anybody," said Zettek. "I feel I can hold my own against any players of my experience in the college ranks, but with the pros future and durability arc big factors to be considered. The fact that I've had knee surgery leaves those areas open for question in my case, and that's the way I've justified the draft to myself." 
Zettek spent more than a few tense mo­ments Tuesday afternoon waiting for his phone call from a pro club. When it didn't come...? 
"I went to Plan B," smiled the 6-5, 240­pounder. "I made sure all my graduate school applications were filled out correctly. 
"That's the one thing I've got going for me," he continued. "IfI should get cut or injured, I always have my degree to fall back on. Hurting my knees forced me to become aware ofmy responsibilities in school and made me realize I can't count on football." 
Although pleased to have a chance to play in his hometown, Zettek knows full well the Bears arc solid along the defensive front wall. All-Pro Dan Hampton anchors one defensive end slot, while six-year veteran Mike Har­tenstein sets up on the other side. AI Harris a first-round draft choice by the Bears in 1979 is a strong backup at end. Veterans Alan Page andJim Osborne are Chicago mainstays at defensive tackle. 
"Competition at defensive end got me a little leery because they've got a lot of talented people there," admited Zettek. "But the Bears reminded me Page and Osborne will probably retire soon, so there might be a chance for a young player." 
Bears' Public Relations Director Ted Harris did not speculate on why Zettek was still available by the eighth round. "Scott had an outstandingsenior year," said Harris. "As far as I know, his physical condition was not a fac­tor. Once he joins the club, it won't matter whether he's the first or the eighth pick -it's the contribution he makes." 
Chicago projects Zettck as a defensive lineman, witb no specific designation as to the tackle or end positions. 
"We'll have to see what he can do once we get him into rookie camp," said Harris. Preliminary training for first-year players begins a week from tomorrow at the Bear~· practice filcillty in Lake Forest, Ill. 
"From what I was told by the so-called ex­perts," said Zettck, a psychology major, "I ex­pected to go between the second and fourth rounds. Monday was kind ofa shock to me when I didn't get a call. 
"My knee is as strong now as it's ever been and I think I'm as quick as I ever was," he said. "Right now I'm focusing all my energies towards football. I've worked out very hard since the season ended. Every time I lift a weight I see a dollar sign. 
"Next year football is going to be survival for me. Ifit doesn't work out, I'm going to need that MBA. 
Zettek started all 11 games for the Irish in 1980. He wa~ third on the squad in tackles with 70, leading all down-linemen. His fumble recovery against Alabama set up the only score ofthe game for the Irish. The 23-year­old senior was voted Chevrolet's ABC-'JV 
Notre Dame player ofthe game against South­ern Cal, Associated Press national lineman of the week for his outing against Purdue, andAP Midwest player of the week for efforts against Navy and Alabama. In addition, Zt·ttck was invited to play in the Hula Bowl and japan Bowl games. 
Knee surgery stopped Zettek during spring practice in both May of 1978 and '79, allowing him to receive an extra yt·ar ofdigihility. A knee sprain sidelined him for three games in 
1979. Zettek contributed <;I tackles as a memeber of the Notre Dame's 1977 National Championship team. 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sport.< Writer 
Jim Stone received an anonymous phone call around 10:;\0 a.m. yesterday morning. 
"The voice on the other end didn't identify himself. I Ic just asked mt· iiTd like to continue my football carct·r at home," rt·calls the Notre Danw tailback. "I knt"w right away who it was." 
Tht· Seattk. Wash., native wa~ speaking with St·ahawk coach.Jack Patt·rra, who in­formed Stone he was tht· dub's ninth round pick in the NFL draft yesterday. 
"I had talked with Seattle before, so it wasn't a total surprise," said Stone, the leading rusher for the Irish last season with 908 yards. "What I'm really enthused about is playing at home. This is a big opportunity for me." 
The 6-1, 200-pound Stone will find in St"attle what was in abundance at Notre Dame -plenty ofcompetition in the backfield, a)­though the startingslot is still a question mark. 
The Seahawks leading ground gainer for the past four seasons, Sherman Smith, suffered a knee injury in the club's third game last year, 


Name:Jim Stone Position: Running Back Height: 6-1 Weight: 198 Home: Seattle, Wash. Major: Speech & Drama Drafted by: Seattle Round/Pick: 9th/2nd 

Smith will be back this season, though, along with his replacement ofa year ago, Jeff Moore, and former Irish tailback AI Hunter. 
The Seahawks drafted another pair ofhacks as well -Savana State's Ken Dawson was picked in the I Oth round, and Lance Olander ofColorado went in the 11th. 
"We're obviously looking for depth in the backfield," explained team spokesman Don Anderson. "Last season, we were forced to go with a two fullback attack, due to Smith's in­jury, so we drafted three tailbacks. jim wa~ our first selcctiqn. 
"jim has a great deal ofpotential," Anderson continued, "and I would think he would be given a good shot at retuning kickoffs." 
Stone, who averaged 20.2 yards a return with the Irish last filii, expressed confidence about his chances ofplaying in the Kingdome next September. 
"They're backfield situation is kind ofshaky right now," he related. "They let me know I'd he given a pretty good chance, and they've definitely expressed interest in playing me on the specialty teams. The fact that I'm a local player might even give me a little ground to work with already." 
But if Stone doesn't crack the starting 
lineup immediately, his days on the gridiron 
will hardly be numbered. Patience and 
preparation areJim Stone's trademark. 
He sat on the bench his first three years at 
Notre Dame, behind rushers likeJerome 
Heavens and Vagus Ferguson. He rode the 
bench the first half ofhis seniorseason also be­
hind his roommate, Phil Carter. 
But when a thigh injury sidelined Carter af­
ter the Michigan State contest, "Stoney" wa~ 
ready. 
Going up against Miami's top-ranked 
defense against the rush, Stone made the most 
ofhis first starting opportunity, responding 
with a 224-yard performance on 38 carries ­
the most yards ever gained by an individual in 
Notre Dame Stadium. 
Stone averaged 149.5 yards-a-game in his 
t1ve starts last sea~on, and then n·turned to the 
bench when a healthy Carter returned to the 
lineup against Alabama. 
"The local media askedjim if it was frustrat­
ing for him, being so talented, yet relegated to 
the second unit," said Anderson. "But he had 
nothing but positive things to say about his 
Notre Dame experience. We're very 
impressed with him as an individual, and 
we're pleased to be able to get an athlete ofhis 
caliber." 
Hankerd wa~ the 521 st player drafted during the two-day festivities in New York, but that should not he discouraging, especial­ly not to the 6-4, 235-pounder from jackson, Mich. 
For one thing, he is going to a team that ha'i had a very high rate ofsuccess with lower round draft choices and free agents who play the lincbacking position. 
According to Denver's assistant public rela­tions director,Jim Saccomano, only two ofthe four starting linebackers on Ia~t year's 8-8 dub, Randy Gradishar and Tomjackson, wen: high draft selections. Inside linebackerJoe Rizzo was picked up as a free agent after being drafted and released by Buffalo, and outside linebacker Bob Swenson wasn't even drafted. 
What is even more amazing is that both of these players sat qut the majority ofla~t sea~on because of injuries, and were replaced by players who had equally unimpressive his­tories. Rizzo was replaced by Larry Evans, who wasn't drafted until the 14th round, and Swen­
Name:John Hankerd Position: Defensive End Height: 6-4 Weight: 245 Home:Jackson, Mich. Major: Finance Drafted by: Denver Round/Pick: 12th/13th 
By MARK HANNUKSELA 
Sports Writer 

The guy wasn't kidding when he said "Better late than never." At leastJohn Hankerd hopes he wasn't kidding. 
It wasn't until late in the 12th round ofyes­terday'r draft that the name that has appeared above the number 47 for the last four years was called by an NFL team. But no one's com­plaining, especially not Hankerd, who is now a member of the Denver Broncos. 
"I am really excited about being drafted," Hankerd said yesterday. "I'm happy with the team I got picked by, and I'm excited about going to the city of Denver. 
"I was starting to get a little anxious, though," he admitted. "They got to the 12th round, and I just figured well... I thought I might have to get a real job or something. 
"But I'm really flattered that I got drafted, and I'm anxious to get started." 
A defensive end for most ofhis collegiate career, Hankerd will get a chance to display his linehacking skills early next month when he reports for duty with the AFC club. 
Along with other draftees and free agents, Hankerd will attend a mini-camp the club is holding May 7-10. Accompanying him to Den­ver will be such former Irish nemises as Den­nis Smith and Steve Busick of USC, and Mark Hermann ofPurdue. 
son's spot was filled by Rob Nairne, who wa~ 
never drafted. 

The Broncos expect Swenson to fully 
recover from a broken arm, but they aren't too 
sure about Rizzo, who sat out because ofa 
severe knee injury. 
That may open the door for a guy like Hankerd, who is encouraged by the recent success the Broncos have had with those players generally called obscure. 
He should be able to find even more t·n­
couragcment from head coach Dan Reeves, 
who said that he did not draft any player who 
he didn't think could play in the National 
Football League. 

When informed of llankerd's sdection, 
Notre Dame administrative a~sistantjoe 
Yonto had only praise for the young man who 
came under his tutclagt· as Dan Devine's 
defensive co-ordinator and line coach. 
"John Hankerd is a fine, hard-nosed ball player," he said. "He always did what wa~ asked ofhim, and gave I00 percent every time he was on the field. I'm really thrilled that he got drafted, and I think he'll do a n·al fine job. 
Yonto added that the low draft sekction docs not necessarily have any significann·, bt·· cause "no matter where you're selected, you still have to prove yoursdfon the field, whether you're pil"ked in the first round or the eighth round or the 12th. Ir might mt·an a little bonus money, but it all comes down to how you perform." 
Going back through the Notn· Dame annals, one can find another source ofencourage­ment for Hankerd. Bob Kuechenberg, a 1969 grad, was drafted in the 14th round by the Philadelphia Eagles, but cut before the season began. He went on to play for the Chicago Owls, a semi-pro team, before moving to Miami where he played 12 seasons while achieving All-Pro status as an offensive guard for the Dolphins. 
Ifthis still isn't enough, he's always got the guy who said "Better late..." Well, you know it. 
The Observer Thursday, April30, 1981 -page 14 

(DE) Purdue. 25. Atlanta, Eric Sanders (OT) kegee, 28. New Orleans (from Oakland), Glen Eighth Round Vegas, 5. St. Louis, Stump Mitchell (RB) The Nevada-Reno, 26. Dallas, Danny Spradlin (LB) Redd (LB) Brigham Young. 
Citadel, 6. Green Bay, Tim Huffman (On Notre
1. New England (from New Orleans), Ken Nabor

FOOTBALL 

Dame, 7. Tampa Bay, Mike Ford (OB) Southern
Tennessee, 27. Miami (from Philadelphia) Tommy 
(K-P) Stanford. 2. N.Y. Jets, Lloyd Jones (WR) 

Methodist, B. Cincinnati, Jim Hannula (OT) North­
Vigorito (RB) Virginia, 28. Forfeited by Oakland as 
Brigham Young, 3. Seattle, Eric Lane (RB) Brillh­

ern Illinois, 9. Cincinnati (from San Francisco),
completion of a league penalty for keeping two 
man Young, 4. N.Y. Olanta, John Powara (OG) 

Samoa Samoa (RB-OB) Washington St., 10.
NFL Draft players in camp illegally during the 197B Seventh Round 
Michigan. 5. St. Louis, Mike Fisher (WR) Baylor, 6. The following is a complete rundown of rounds preseason. 1. New Orteana, Kevin William• (WR) Southam 
Washington, Darryl Grant (OG) Rice, 11. Chicago,
Tampa Bay, Denver Johnson (OT) Tulsa, 7. Green 

Frank Ditta (OG) Baylor, 12. Baltimore, Tim Gooch
five through! 12 of the draft. Notre Dame players Cal, 2. N.Y. Giants, Louis Jackson (RB) Cal Poly­
Bay, Larry Werts (LB) Jackson St., B. Washington, 

(DT) Kentucky, 13. Denver, Rusty Olsen (DE)
and players for Notre Dame's 1980 opponents are Sixth Round San Luis Obispo, 3. N.Y. Jets, Kenny Neil (DL) Iowa 
Charley Brown (WR) South Carolina St. 9. Cincin­in bold. 1. N-Orte.,a, Nat Hudaon (OG) Georgia, 2. St., 4. Seattle, Ron Johnson (WR) Long Beach St., 
Washington, 14. Miami, John Noonan (WR)
nati, Bob Kemp (DE) Fullerton St., 10. San Fran­

Nebraska, 15. Kansas City, Anthony Vereen (DB)
Seattle, Steve Durham (DE) Clemson, 3. San 5. St. Louis, Kenin Donnelly (DB) North Dakota St., 
cisco, Garry Whit te (RB) Minnesota, 11. Baltimore, 

Southeastern Louisiana, 16. Seattle (from Min­
Fltltl Round Diego (from N.Y. Giants). Drew Gissinger (OT) 6. Green Bay, Bill Whitaker (DB) Missouri, 7. Dal­
Ken Sitton (DB) Oklahoma, 12. Chicago, Sc•ott 

nesota), Jim Watley (WR) Washington St., 17.
1. New Orleans. Louis Oubre (OT) Oklahoma, 2. Syracuse, 4. N.Y. Jets, John Woodring (LB) las (from Tampa Bay), Ron Fellows (DB) Missouri, 
Zettel< (Dn Notre Dame, 13. Kansas City, David 

Detroit, Hugh Jernigan (DB) Arkansas, 18. Pitts­
N.Y. Jets. Tyrone Keys (DE) Mississippi St., 3. Brown, 5. St. Louis, Dave Ahrens (LB) Wisconsin, 8. Philadelphia (lrom San Francisco), Alan Dun­
Dorn (WR) Rutgers, 14. N.Y. Giants (lrom Denver), 

burgh, Jamea Hunter (On Southern Cal, 19.
Seallle, Edwin Bailey (OG) South Carolina St., _4. 6. New Orleans (from Tampa Bay), Johnnie Poe can (K) Tennessee, 9. Los Angeles (from Washing­
Mark Reed (OB) Moorhead St., 15. Miami, Willian 

Detroit (from New England). Dave Martin (DB) Vil­
N.Y. Giants, Bill Neill (DT) Pittsburgh, 5. St. LoUIS, (DB) Missouri, 7. N.Y. Giants (from Green Bay), ton) Ron Battle (TE) North Texas St., 10. 
Judson (DB) South Carolina St., 16. Pit1sbur11h. 

lanova, 20. Buffalo, Ron Riddick (RB) Millersville
John Gillen (LB) Illinois, 6. Green Bay, Byron Melvin Hoover (WR) Arizona St., I. Cincinnati, Cincinnati, Jell Schum (LB) Minnesota, 11. 
Frank Wilson (RB) Rice, 17. Minnesota, Wade Wil­

St., 21. Supplemental aelectlon by San Diego,
Braggs (Dn Alabama, 7. Oakland (from Tampa Rex Roblnaon (K) Georgia, 9. San Francisco, Pete Chicago, Jeff Flahar (DB) Southam Cal, 12. Bal­son East St., Detroit,
(OB-P) Texas 18. Bob 

~illy Mulllna (WA) Southern Cal, (player became 
Bay), James Davis (DB) Southern, B. Washington, Kugler(on Penn St., 10. Washington, larry Kubin timore, Obed Ariri (K) Clemson, 13. Miami, Mike 
Niziolek (TE) Colorado, 19. New England, l.in 

eligible following 1980 draft), 22. Los Angeles.
Dexter Manley (DE) Oklahoma St., 9. Concon­(LB) Penn St., 11. Baltimore, Bubba Green (DT) Daum (OT) Cal Poly Obisbo, 14. Kana• City, Billy 
Dawson (TE) North Carolina St., 20. N.Y. JEtts nati.Benjie Pryor (TE) Pittsburgh. 10. San Fran­North Carolina St .. 12. Chicago, Reuben Hender­JIICkeon (RB) Alabama, 15. Denver, Steve Bualck 
Ron Seawell (LB) Portland St., 23. Houston, Avon 
(from Cleveland) J.C. Walls (DB) Oklahoma, 2'1. cisco, Lynn Thomas (DB) Pittsburgh, 11. San son (DB) San Diego St., 13. Denver, Alvin Lewis (LB) Southern Cal, 16. Detroit, Lee Spivey (DT) 
Reily (LB) UCLA, 24. Cleveland, Randy
New Orleans (from Bulfalo), Gene Gladys (LB) Penn St., 22. New Orleans (lrom San Diego) Kevin 

Francisco (!rom Chicago), Arrington Jones (RB) (RB) Colorado St., 14. Miami Mack Moore (DE) Southern Methodist, 17. Pittsburgh, David Little Schleusener (OG) Nebraska, 25. Atlanta, Calvin Winston Salem St., 12. Minnesota (from Bal­Texas A&M, 15. Kansas City, Dock Luckie (DT) (LB) Florida, 1B. Minnesota, Don Shaver (RB) Fance (RB) Rice, 26. Dallas, Mike Wilson (WR)
Evans (DB) Arkansas, 23. Los Angeles, Art timore), Wendell Ray (DE) M1ssouri, 13. Kansas Floroda. Miam1 Minnesota) Fulton Kutztown St., 19. New England, Ken Toler (WR)
16. (from Washington St., 27. Philadelphia, Chuck Commis­
Plunkett (OT) Nevada-Las Vegas, 24. Houston, City, Todd Thomas (On North Dakota, 14. Denver, Walker (DB) Maryland, 17. Detroit, Sam Johnson Mississippi, 20. Seattle (from Houston), Brad 
key (C) Mississippi, 2B. Oakland, Curt Mohl (OT)
Willie Tullis (WR) Troy St., 25. Paul Piurowski (LB) 

UCLA.
Ken Lanier (On Florida St., 15. M1ami, Ken Poole (DB) Maryland, 18. Pittsburgh, Bryan Hinkle (LB) Scovill (TE) Penn St.. 21. Cleveland, Eddie 
Florida St., 26. Atlanta, Clifford Toney (DB)(DE) N.E. Louisiana. 16 Pittsburgh, Ricky Martin Oregon 19. New England, Ron Wooten (OG) North Johnson (LB) Louisville, 22. Bulfalo, Steve 
Auburn, 27. Baltimore (from Philadelphia) Hosea 

(WR) New Mexico, 17. New Orleans (from Mm­Carolina, 20. Los Angeles, William Daniels (DT) Doolittle (LB) Colorado, 23. San Diego, Pate Tenth Round
Taylor (DT) Houston, 2B. N.Y. Giants (from Oak­nesota), Jerry Boyarsky (DT) Pittsburgh, 18. Alabama St., 21. Houaton, Bill Kay (DB) Purdue, Holoh., (TE) Notre Dame, 24. Los Angeles. Mike 
1. New Orleans, Hokie Gajan (RB) Louisiana St., 
land), BillArd (OG) Wake Forest. Detroit, Larry Lee (OG) UCLA, 19. New England, 22. Cleveland, Ron Simmons (DT) Florida St., 23. Clark (DE) Florida, 25. Supplemental slection by 
2. N.Y. Giants, Mike Barker (DT) Grambling St., 3. Steve Clark (DE) Kansas St., 20. San Diego. Keeth Buffalo, Robert Holt (WR) Baylor, 24. San Diego, Atlanta, Matthew Teague (DL) Prarie View (Player 
N.Y. Jets, Marty Wetzei(LB) Tulane, 4. Seattle, Ken 
Ninth Round Ferguson (LB) Ohio St.. 21. Washmgton (from Los Bobby Duckworth (WR) Arkansas, 25. Dallas, became eligible following 1980 draft), 26. Dallas, 
Dawson (RB) Savannah St.. 5. St. Loula, Jamea
1. New Orleans, Toussaint Tyler (RB) Washing­Angeles). Gary Sayre (OT) Cameron, 22. Houston, Vince Skillings (DB) Ohio St., 26. Atlanta, Harry Ken Miller (DB) Eastern Michigan, 27. Philadel­
Mallard (WR) Alabama, 6. Tampa Bay, Ken 
ton, 2. Seattle, Jim Stone (RB) Notre Dame, 3. Delbert Fowler (LB) West Virginia, 23. Cleveland, Stanback (DT) North Carolina, 27. N.Y. Giants phia, Doak Field (LB) Baylor, 2B. Houston (from McCune (DE) Texas, 7. Green Bay, Nickie Hall
N.Y. Giants, Byron Hunt (LB) Southern Methodist, 

(OB) Tulane, B. Baltimore (from San Francisco),
Steve Cox (K) Arkansas, 24. Buffalo, Calvin Clark (from Philadelphia), Edward O'Neal (RB) Tus--' Oakland), Don Washington (DB) Texas A&I. 
4. N.Y. Jets. Admiral Dewey Larry (DB) Nevada-Las 


Greg Gerken (LB) Northern Arizona, 9. Washing­ton, Phil Kessel (OB) Northern Michigan, tO. Cin­cinnati, Hubert Simpson (RB) Tennessee, 11. Baltimore. Trent Bryant (DB) Arkansas. 12. Chicago, Tim Clifford (OB) Indiana, 13. Miami, Steve Folsom (TE) Utah. 14. Kansas City, Las Stud­dard (OG) Texas, 15. St. Loula (from Denver), Jim Joiner (WR) Miami, Fla., 16. Detroit, Andy Can­navlno (LB) Michigan, 17. Pittsburgh, Mike Mayock (DB) Boston College, 18. Minnesota, James Murphy (WR) Utah St., 19. Washington (from New England through Cleveland), Allan Kennedy (OT) Washington St., 20. San Diego. Robert Parham (RB) Grambling St.. 21. Los An­geles. Robert Alexander (RB) West Virginia, 22. Houston, Larry Jones (RB) Colorado St., 23. Cleveland, Dean Prater (DE) Oklahoma St., 24. Buffalo, Justin Cross (OT) Western Colorado, 25. Dallas. Pat Graham (DT) California. 26. Atlanta, Bob Murphy (DB) Ohio St., 27. Philadelphia, Hubert Oliver (RB) Arizona, 2B. Oakland, Frank Hawkins (RB) Nevada-Reno. 
Eleventh Round 

1. New Orleans, Lester Mickens (WR) Kansas, 2. 
N.Y. 
Jets, Edward Gall (DT) Maryland, 3. Seattle. Lance Olander (RB) Colorado, 4. San Diego (from 

N.Y. 
Giants), Matt Petrzelka (OT) Iowa, 5. St. Louis, Mike Sherrod (TE) Illinois, 6. Green Bay, Forrest Valora (LB) Oklahoma. 7. Tampa Bay, Johnny Ray Smith (LB) Lamar, B. Washington, Jerry Hill (WR) North Alabama. 9. Cincinnati, Robert Jackson (DB) Central Michigan. 10. San Francisco, Ronnie DeBose (TE) UCLA, 11. Chicago, Lonnie Johnson (RB) Indiana, 12. Baltimore, Holden Smith (WR) California, 13. Kansas City, Frank Case (TE) Penn St., 14. Denver, Pat Walker (WR) Miami, Fla., 15. Miami, Jim Jensen (OB) Boston U., 16. Pittsburgh, Rick Trocano (OB) Pittsburgh, 17. Minnesota. Bill Stephanos (DT) Boston College, 18. Detroit, Willie Jackson (DB) Mississippi St., 19. New England, Brian Buckley (QB) Harvard, 20. Loa Angeles, Marcelua Green (DB) Arizona, 21. Houston, Claude Mathews (OG) Auburn, 22. Cleveland, Larry Friday (DB) Mississippi St., 23. Buffalo, Bus­ter Barnett (TE) Jackson St., 24. San Diego, Carlos Bradley (LB) Wake Forest. 25. Atlanta, Kieth Chap­pelle (WR) Iowa, 26. Dall•, Tim Morrtuon (OG) Georgia, 27. Philadelphia, Gail Davis (DT) Virginia Union, 2B. Oakland. Chester Willis (RB) Auburn. 


Twelfth Round 

1. New Orleans, Jim Wilks (DT) San Diego St., 2. Seattle, Jeff Bednarek (DT) Pacific, 3. N.Y. Giants, Mike Maher (TE) Western Illinois, 4. N.Y. Jets. Mike Moeller (OT) Drake, 5. St, Louis, Joe Adams (OG) Nebraska, 6. Tampa Bay, Brad White (DT) Tennessee, 7. Green Bay, Cliff Lewis (LB) South­ern Mississippi, B. Cincinnati, Mark O'Connell (OB) Ball St., 9. San Franclaco, MajorOgilvie (RB) Alabama,, 10. Washington, Clint Didier (WR) Portland St., 11. Baltimore, Eric Scoggins (LB) Southern Cal, 12. Chicago, Bob Schupryt (LB) New Mexico, 13. Denver, John Hankerd (DE) Notre Dame, 14. Miami, John Alford (DT) South Carolina St., 15. Kansas City, Bob Gagliano (OB) Utah St., 
16. 
Minnesota, Brian Wiliams (TE) Southern U., 

17. 
Denver (from Detroit), Mandel Robinson (RB) Wyoming, 18. San Francisco (from Pittsburgh), Joe Adams (OB) Tennessee St., 19. New England, Cris Crissy (DB) Princeton, 20. Houston, Bill Capece (K) Florida St., 21. Cleveland, Kevin McGill (DT) Oregon, 22. Buffalo, Kieth Clark (LB) Memphis St., 23. San Diego, Stacey Charles (WR) Bethune-Cookman, 24. Los Angeles. Jairo Penaranda (RB) UCLA, 25. Dallas, Nate Lundy (WR) Indiana. 26. Atlanta. Mark McCants (DB) Temple, 27. Philadelphia, Ray Ellis (DB) Ohio St., 


28. Oakland, Phil Nelson (TE) Delaware. 
Rockets take series from Spurs, 98-88 
Moses Malone scored 36 points, Robert Reid and Billy Paultz scored 12 apiece and Paultz grabbed two crucial rebounds in the final two minutes last night, propelling the Houston Rockets past Kansas City, 98-88, and into the championship finals of the National Basketball As­sociation. 
The Rockets await the outcome of the semi-final series between the Boston Celtics and the Philadelphia '76ers. 
The Celtics defeated the Sixers in Boston last night, 111-109. The Sixers lead the series three games to two, with game six scheduled for tomorrow evening at the Spectrum in Philadelphia. 
Game seven, if necessary, will be played in Boston Garden Sunday af­ternoon. 
~b. I


~~()~Sc1J==,..==i=e~j~S============~-~================Th=u=r~==~='A~p=ril=3=o=,=I9=B=I==p=a=~=I~5


by Tht· Ohrerra .tnd Tht• Arrooaled p,,.., 
Bookstore Commissioner Rob Simari has an­The Rugby Clubwill hold its annual banquet at 3 p.m. onnounced that he is taking applications to fill his position as commis· Saturday at 714 St. Louis St. Games jerseys will be on sale. Ifyou havesioncr. Freshmen are especially encouraged to apply by contacting any questions, call Brian at 234-0711.-Tbe Observer 
Simari in 433 Stanford, or by calling 8767. Sophomore and junior ap· plicants will also be accepted. -Tbe Observer 
Bob Crable and Dean Masztak will be the The SMCsoftballteamswept a doubleheader yester­
guests on Speaking ofSports tonight at 7 on WSND ( 640 on your AM day from Bethel College by scores of9-5 and 14-4.Jackie Wasnie was dial). Sports Director "Wild Bill" Dempsey will host the show, which the offensive star ofthe day, getting two doubles and two singles. The will also feature Craig Chval, Bill Lanescy, and Dave Dziedzic. Lis­Belles are now I 5-9, and will compete in the Indiana state tournament teners arc invited to talk to the guests by calling 6400 or 7425.Tbe beginning tomorrow at Anderson, In. -The Observer Obseroer 
**** 

Buy 
*** 
* 

Observer 
Classified&!! 
All ''·•~·,,f,pd .Hb" l~t t11• 1t~cen1t:~1 llv 4 45 '' ,, twu dJvs pr•o· ·o tht• t!>Mu• •r> whn;l; rt., .:.t.•. n,r1 The Observer otf~t.t~ .-..•11 .tCtPUt •:'.!~d·•tted!> Mon(ld\ rh~r)uun F"d<t\o 1 () 00 .1 n· ·o 4 45 p ,,... ·\II l~lass•f•eth. ""nH'S1 hro
Classifieds jHt'·p.lld •~llhr.• •n •·•~r<;on or throuQH 1~1r mdtl 
STAYING IN SOUTH BEND THIS SUM­ I domonaled Joe Kleine's high school  The bollom line os loneliness .. Whal  
[NOTICES  MER? RENT APARTMENT. BATHROOMS,  OUR CAMPUSVIEW 2 BEDROOMS. 2 FULLY FURNISHED.  basketballeam.lfyou don'l believe me. or if you do, and have any gradual ion llickels call Kenl at 232·0921.  does Christmas mean lo you? To me il meanl. oh, lorgel il.  IRISH COUNTRY: HAPPY HOUR EVERY NIGHT DURING EXAMS 10­12PM CELEBRATE LAST CLASS DAY  PITTSBURGH CLUB LUGGAGE TRUCK-loadong woll be SATURDAY. MAY 9TH.  
USED & OUT-of·PRINT BOOKS bouQhl. sold, -rctoed ERASMUS BOOI<S T.--Sunday, 12-6. 1027 E. Wayne (one block soulh ol Eddy· Je!lefson mte<WC1oon) INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS RINGS $20-$11!; OR MORE. WE MAKE HOUSE CAllS. 255·2402. ~SSIONAl TYPING. Term papltf'S, t~. etc. Tape transcnpt1on. last year'1 same low pnces. All work guaranteed. aardvark automatic solu­1"'"" 28!HI753 WIUDOTYPING CALL287·5162. Bog profits! Your own wholesale bUS<­-2.000 lal-llmg olems. Free  CHEAP!!! CALL CATHY 4-1-4380 AF­TER6P.M. Near NO. Furn. Apl. Ulols. May 15. Sum· mer, Fall. Small house turn. May 28. Summer. Fall. 272-6174. Summer Sublel2 bedroom townhouse including washer and dryer. complete­ly furnished. Renl negoloable. Call277­8158. AVAILABLE SUMMER HOUSE -3 BEDROOMS, 2 PORCHES, BIG YARD I BLK FROM CAMPUS ON EDDY · CHEAP 78190R232-4539. L WAN!ED:=J  REWARD: LOVING AUNT WILL PAY· BIG BUCKS TO SEE GODCHILD GRADUATE. NEED 1 TICKET. CALL DANNY3636. NEED MANY TIX TO GRADUATION. WILL PAY. CALLJIM AT 3647 OESPERATEL Y need 3 or 4 GRAD TICKETS, Please call277·8757. Two graduation lickels urgenlly needed for grandparents coming from lhe old counlry. BEAUCOUP FRANCES! CALL Sieve Ledoux 3372 Help! I need 5 grad lixs will pay$ Kalhy 6841 WILL PAY MORE THAN ANYONE FOR GRAD TICKETS CALL JIM 277-7626  You've gollo look allhe brighi side of lila. I'm nol lhe messiah. I'm nol lhe messiah. I'm just a man. The lite ol Brian Tonoghl ENG AUO 7,9,11 Earthlings, beware -Bruce will be loose on the planel Froday night Oealh follows where'er he wanders. Darker than Vader, more venomous than Saruman. more fearsome than Captain Axe -and Friday nighl he will slride lhe planet seekong lo "help" you lind eternal peace! The Ghost of Moose Control A long lime ago .... No! II can·! be lrue! Why didn't you lei~ me! Slop teedmg otl mel Give me some air! I can'l brealhel  MONDAY WITH AN All-DAY PARTY SENIORS: WATCH FOR SENIOR WEEK BEER SPECIALS OEDIPUS AT COLONUS OUTDOOR THEATRE THIS SAT. AND SUN al2 p.m. SMC MOAT, ACROSS FROM LIBRARY HEY MIKE THANKS FOR All YOUR HELP I'M SURE YOU STAYED UP All NIGHT LOVEYA TENNESSEE TOOTS GREETINGS TO ALL TOOTS MEM­BERS Attention girls! 3 gorgeous semor hunks are lookmg lor flings -(lhe lasl hurrah!) ln­leresled? Call Phil Gutierrez. Tom Swegle, or Kevin Quigley. (These guys  STEPAN 10:30-11 :30 BOOKSTORE 12:30-1:30 lEMANS (SMC) 4.00 · 5:00 (Eieclions woll also lake place al all lhree slops for ne>l year's olfocers.) ROOM AVAILABLE FOR GRADUATION AT THE HOLIDAY INN AT 31. FRI. SAT & SUN. MY PARENTS DON'T WANT TO LOSE THE DEPOSIT CALL ANNE al 1669. Need Roders lo Houslonl After gradua· lion. Dave 3402 CRYSTAL ROCKS CRYSTAL ROCKS CRYSTAL ROCKS AI FAT WALLY'S!!! Salurday May 2 Be lhere aloha.  
ouoono detaolsl Horozons. Bo• 8020-Z.  are good).  ·······SELL SOMETHING·······  
u..-ruiCoty. Calli. 916011 SAVE 50 PERCENT Rqhl oow you can...., 50 percent oH n.e proce ol your forst Rezound cassetle  NEED RIDE to Moami·FI. Lauderdale AFTER GRADUATION tor I or 2 people. Call John Higgins al 8553 or 1715 and leave a message  
 Enough of lhese movie quoles Bye Need roders going wesl. We're heading  To whom it may concern: Thank You lor lhe very nice nole and the anonymous donation. GREG  ·-·-··-SELL SOMETHING······· AT THE STEPAN FURNITURE AUCTION THURSDAY 6:00-7 DROP OFF PLACES AND TIMES POSTED AROUND CAMPUS  
copy You can copy any cassetle !rom I m1n1.1te to 12\J mmutes 1n ktss than 4 omnutes lome, both sodes somul· taneously OHer good lhrough May 31. 111111 only al your Hammes Noire Dame Boobt<>re Oo YOU ,_., a roommale? boarder? -71woll be stayong on Soulh 8omd IO< n.e summer, and I ooed hvmg ~ P-call Alou at3255. INTERNSHPS areavailable in Cnminal Jll51ooe and Urban Sludies. These inler· ,.,_...,,0<2..,meslers. For more in­lormaloon, contact Prot. Vasoh al1357 or 287·191111 CorM to the Annual AnToslal Dinner! 8 :3D p m. Thurs. al Hans Haus Res laurant t-avoulable on 142 Farley CRYSTAl will be IIYIIIIable lor engage­-through gradualoon. Reduced -lot aH. Call Boll al 6823. St<MI al 1lllll. or Oouganandy al272·1643.  WANTED: A VOLKSWAGEN ('n-'76). MUST BE IN GOOD RUNNING CONDI· TION. CONVERTIBLE IS PREFERRED. CALLCATH4-1-<4380AFTER6P.M. IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY! CAMPUS· VIEW APARTMENT AVAILABLE FOR RENT IN MAY. 2 BEDROOMS. 2 BATHS, FUllY FURNISHED. CHEAP !II CALLGAY4-I-4441 AFTER 11 P.M. All right I'll sellle tor a ride ANYWHERE In Florida AFTER GGRADUATION.The closer to Miami the buller. Call John Higgons al8553 or 1715 and leave a message. PURDUE STUDENT NEEDS TO SUB· LEASE AN APARTMENT FOR SUM· MER. SEND OFFERS TO 1059 WILEY, W. LAFAYETTE, IND. 47906 OR CALL 317-493-9236. ClOSER TO MISHA· WAI<A PREFERRED. Do YOU ooed a roommate? boarder? housesiller? I will be slaying in Soulh Bend lor lhe summer. aand I ooed living space. Please cal Ale• al3255 End ol Year Models going quickly. Gel an OH Campus Roommate: gel a rebate .Cone sw ill a II slanliKI equ op · ment ard many Ma ffeatiiB s . LoN mileage ,h!Kllyanyga s .Ca liM Ike  skip... whal. lime on lriday?? no grapefruit or orange juice substitu­tions this time .. Hi you foreigners· Ala ........./..... Don. Your first personal never made the papers. Sorry aboullhal. Forget aboul il. Good luck on linals. me Usa, A I rip lo Ohio would be wonderful. Ann. Heard your dale wilh lhe porcelain god was really pud. LaVigne, llislened for your phone and I heard II. Patly. Oon'l Bangladon lhis week. Lu Bisl on your finals. I hope your Weasand doesn'l hurl. GOC Whale, I heard you were beached Salurday night Julie, Sweeney M.O.C. Talk lo the girl whose legs are on page  into the sunshine of Northern Califor­nia. Join us in our trek to the ocean. Can you resisl a ride wilh lhe Ghosl ol Moose Control (an incorrigible quater of movies) and Mr. Ver Be'rkmoes? Leaving afler graduation. Conlacl The Observer Travel Bureau. P.O. Bo• 0. campus maol. We're going lo Calilor· nia. Aide with us. Fun guaranteed. ·scuse me, m1ss? Miss? Who loll you lhat slreel sogn, lhal bollia of wine? No one knows who lefl you lhal rose! I asked Willie, bul he's oul riding Nero: an· everyone knows the Electric Horse­man's a hero. There's good sailing on Montego Bay and thanx tor the dinner yesterday. llaly's wailing ... XXX gregs are people two..uh, to .. oops, tu.. JoBean. Have a whizzing 20th birthday! The Whiz Kids HAPPY BIRTHDAY CINDY FROM NORA, NIKKI, CINDY. JIM AND GREG. BRIAN, SUE. KEVIN, TOM, AND TONY lewos?Lyons? Walsh? Have you heard the news? Today is Tom Brady's birlhday!  ATTENTION: WOMEN SOCCER PLAYERS!! There will be an orgamzational meeting for those interested in formtng a club sport ne>l year, Monday, May 41h, al 6:30 pm. in I he LaFortune lillie Theater. Please BE THEREII TO My FELLOW Banditos, Jusl wanllo lei you all know how much I love you all and how much I'll miss yo all I Thanks for lhe memories-B-i+ I,"The Rose" Chung,Pencol Man,Roger&Virginia,The Twins.ROTC MEN.Ms.Gilard,Pebbles, OEDIPUS AT COLONUS OUTDOOR THEATRE SAT. AND SUN. AT 2 p.m. SMC MOAT. ACROSS FROM LIBRARY FREE FREE FREE FREE pizza parties m the teachers lounge, snow football, mass in the Brar, Law Class. Playmale, La-La-La, Toolh· pasle& Toilelpaper, SoundoH. Mr.Spyke, 15 ··No Shows". Ren· dezvqusing, showers wilh M.H.. Mrs.Sianley, M.J., Wilbr, "somethings in lhe Ali, short Domers, bikeriding in lhe Brar, ··How good was il?", FRANCIE !II LOVE YOUR No. 1 BANDITO!  DENISE RIVARD, CONGRA TULA liONS ON YOUR TOP TEN UMOC FEMALE FINISHIIIIII SIGNED. THE 200 WHO CARE There once were two domers. Jane and Tom. Tom lhoughl Jane was beauloful, and always stared al her. Bul he never knew whallo say lo her. One day Tom mustered up all his courage and senl her daosoes (anonymously). Wolh only days lo hos graduallon. woll lhos slory have a happy ending • or woll Federal E•press deliwr An Toslal daosoes ne>l year to lyons from Pollsburgh (anonymously. of course). To Late-night P1Zza-eattng . green fin­gered Laura, We. the Socoely lo Advance Cow­flppmg, want you as President of our "elite" orgamzat•on. To accept nommalion, call Ken all983 ABUSE COWS. NOT DUCKS!!! Busboys sloll ooeded lo help al ACC dinner lhis Saturday noghl. S3 50 per hour. no !llperoence necessary Call Tim all1691onole 5-6:30  
LOST l!ghl blue-dark blue raon slicker ..Senoor Bar on Wednesday noght Has car 1<ey1 on pockel P......., call Sheola al 4+4421  1795. Ride ooeded lo Wash. OC. Can leave anylime after 1 :00 pm on Sal., May 9 or anytime on Sun.• May 10 Callll53.  31 of lhe Scholastic magazine. Call me · Molly Jo, al41·5249. Jeanne, W...A...I..T  Happy Borlhday lex! Happy Borlhday Texl Happy Birlhday Te•! HELP OUT A LITTLE SHORT SENIOR .. I NEED 3 GRADUATION  IF  YOU  STUDENTS!II LIVE ON THE NORTHSIDE  NO MEN NEEDED-WANTED TO HELP SMC FROSH MOVE INTO DORMS ON AUGUST 22. SIGN UP IN STUDENT AC· TIVITIES OFFICE-166 LEMANS OR CALL41·4319 BY MAY 7  
LOST A BLUE VEST AT SOUTH DINING HALL ()tj 0000 FRIDAY CALL JIM AT  Desperately ooed a ride lo Wash. D.C.. Can Leave after 10 a.m. Sal. Call Mike 1474  Dr. Tiles Your red hghts are m now.  TICKETS AND WILL TRADE MY BODY FOR THEM .. CALL 277-7659 COL· LECT.  CHICAGO AREA. CALL US NOW! WE WANT BRIGHT. AGGRESSIVE STU­DENTS TO SELL RADIO ADS OVER  BLUE MANTLE APPLICATIONS· STU­DENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE SMC  
1073 LOST PAIR OF GLASSES IN BROWN CASE IN 02 SATURDAY NIGHT CALL ANNE . odl932  S.M.C. Faculty member looking for nde lo N.Y.C. area Can leave Sun. May 17 anylome 2114-4649 or 683-0934 anyt1me. (will share gas and drivmg)  Veronica A., We heard tts up to 159 now. TO GIVE USA A KISS FOR HER 20TH BIRTHDAY CALL 41-5791 AND MAKE  BUFFALO CLUB MEMBERS. THERE WILL BE A MEETING ON THURSDAY APRIL 30! IT STARTS AT 7PM AND THERE WILL BE BEER AND  THE PHONE, THIS SUMMER, NATIONWIDE. SUPER PAY POTEN­TIAL! IF YOU QUALIFY. WE'Ll GUARANTEE YOU POSITION AND PAY! CALL TIM -FREE -9:00·5:00,  PRO YOU MIGHT NOT HAVE WON THE UMOC AWARD BUT YOU ARE STILL THE UGLIEST MAN I KNOWIIIIII MIKE BURKE. THE MAN THE LEGEND  
LOST Gold dogolal walch around Noeuland or Malh Bldg lasl Froday Call Goejj al 8314 of found Reward os BIG  AN APPOINTMENT REFUSED. DEARWAZ.  NO ONE WILL BE  MUNCHIES ELECTION OF NEW OF­FICERS IS ON THE AGENDA. BE THERE ..QUESTIONS-CALL BETH AT 4629.  MON. THRU FRI. CALL NOW! 1-800· 621·6426. COPPEUA TONIGHT  See lhe MR LANCE SHOW on WNOU channel 16 slarrong LANCE MAZEROV Sunday. May 3 and May 10 al noon  
BUCKS!!!  THANKS  O'LAUGHLIN AUD  
JANE  PATTY HEINLE  8p.m.  
lost Yeltow revers•ble ra1ncoat at lnsh Country Monday belore Easter break I haiM yours and some stuff that was m lhe pockel Call Boll all238 Thanks  SURPLUS JEEPS. CARS. TRUCKS Car-onv value $2143 sold lor $100 Call 602-941-8014 E>l. 3648 Many olher  Dear Nan. Happy Birlhdayl A lillie lale. bul would you expecl anylhmg less. I'd  PATTY HEINLE PATTY HEINLE PATTY HEINLE PATTY HEINLE  Sludenl Player Fall dorector search! Sogn-up lo be one al Sludenl Union by May 1.  To anyone pro1es11ng Ronald Reagan's commencement speech If you don't want to see the man why dan·t you g•ve your t1cket away to someone who does  
bargams ava•lable  love to take a ramcheck on that roman­ Call Moke 8193  
ftc stroll through the "pits" w1th you  PATTY HEINLE IS HEIN LESS BUT WE  Sogn-up lor Fall Sludenl Player doreclor  
Green Wootroch hooded ramcoal wolh  For Sale-1966 Ford Cuslom 500. Good condollon. Call SMC 4526.  Maybe nexl Spnng.  Dan  ALL LOVE HER!  al Sludenl Unoon by May 1.  Hey Aoomtes. thiS IS your final pesonal of the year Have the ttme ol your llle  
many pockels Loslappro• one monlh ago It lound call1374  SUPER BACKPACK FR. JO 7118  Will lhe young  male  responsoble  lor  BUFFALO CLUB MEMBERS: COME TO THE MEETING IN ZAHM HALL  MUST HAVE 6,(Yes lhal was SIX), GRADUATION TIX !'!Ill! WILL PAY ANY  next year I love you and w•ll m1ss you. Remember Rona 11 we run oul of  
LFOR RENT  FOR SALE· Couch, Easy Chaor, Skos (wolh 1 bondongs). Toasler-Brooler, End Tables. Calll943. Allin good condllon.  bringong Mary Belh Oxenreller lo un· lold heighls ol euphoroc exh1lara11on and sexual awareness please send flowers. P.S. You should also gel a blood lesl-·  PARTY ROOM AT 7PM TONIGHT BEER AND MUNCHIES. ELECTION OF NEW OFFICERS IS THE TOPIC FOR DISCUSSION.  REASONABLE PRICE. CALL ANNE al 6872..II I'm nol 1n lry agaon, ol woll be worth your while. SENIORS SEE · A THOUSAND  money we can always holchhlke home or we can stay over there and hang out al lhe Cosla del Sol Lesloe Squee B Oon·l gel losl on Calot Remember my home os always open lo you. To all my 
ONE SOFA AND TWO BOOKCASES IN  she now has mono!  BUFFALO CLUB  MEETING IN ZAHM  CLOWNS"  BEFORE  YOU  BEGIN  other compatnots of reps. especially  
AVAILABLE  SUMMER  AND  NEXl  EXCELLENT CONDITION. CALL MIKE  TONIGHT I  WORK  IT  MAY  BE  YOUR  LAST  you Ms  Sl Louos Don'llorgel us  We  
SO«))l YEAR 5 BEDROOM HOUSE.  8193 OR Blll8230  Tejas.  BUFFALO CLUB MEETING IN ZAHM  CHANCE!  (THURSDAY  OF  SENIOR  will make many road tr1ps 14 months  
1 AND 3 BEOfK)DM APARTMENTS  Here's to the rudest. down as fan,  TONIGHT I  WEEK.)  from now See you all later Have a great  
234·2626  FOR SALE. Slrong, slurdy footlocker.  awesomest guy who's got everythmg  BUFFALO CLUB MEETING IN ZAHM  summer  
15•12>30 Used once Phone 233-5496  tmagmable  except  tor  the  unat­ TONIGHT!  BLUZE BROTHERS  
Hou. For Renl 919 So  Bend Ave  5  laonable NanaNana (please modoly lhe  BUFFALO CLUB MEETING IN ZAHM  DONKEY BASKETBALL  
bedrooms. 2 balhll Call Tom McGann  pronuncoatoon).  Happy  Borlhday  and  TONIGHT!  BLUZE BROTHERS  FRIDAY MAY 1  
277-3461 "'2n·9299  may all your more earthly wishes come  8:00  
true. Feels  IRISH  COUNTRY  BLUE-GOLD  ··we're on a m1sston from God'' tomor­ STEPAN CENTER  
H"""" lor SUMMER  LOW RENT OR  WEEKEND SPECIALS  row noghl9:30 Washonglon Hall  
WORK FOR RENT CALL277-3461 OR 2n9299  TICKETS  ThiS os nol a willy personal. Need rode lo NYC area (Jusl easl of Tappanzee  HAPPY HOUR THURSDAY NIGHT 9-12 pm.  Special One Noghl Only Benehl Perlor·  DONKEY BASKETBALL FRIDAY MAY 1-8·00  
Brodge) alter graduatoon May 18. etc...  HAPPY HOUR FRIDAY 3·7 p m  mance  for  the  Andy  Sowder  STEPAN CENTER  
Houae for rent  summer and-or next  Call Mike, 1795  HAPPY  HOUR  SATURDAY  lOam.·  Scholarship Fund  CAVANAUGH-FARLEY vs  
school year Furn. gd end.. close lo campus ntnl negoloable Call287·5361 after6p m  I need 3 (lhal's lhree) gradualoon lick· els. (Yes, folks, il's slarling a/ready.) II you can help me, call Scoop alI 772.  Moooooooool OOooooool Quack, quack  10p.m. 3 DRAFTS·$1 PITCHER-$2 LIVE MUSIC EVERY NIGHT  THE BLUZE BROTHERS Froday 9:30p.m. $1 Washington Hall  ZAHM·BP See your lroends I all viet om lo I he asses  


Thursday, April 30, 1981 -page 16



SRorts-
JY 
~ . 
' 

Koeget, Kiel vie for top job 
By KELLY SULLIVAN And it will be the culmination ofan square one for all of us." uphill battle for whoever is tagged The new start may have ham­
Sports Writer 
No. 1. pered Kiel a bit, but it's been a Picking a quarterback was high For Kiel, starter ofNotre Dame's definite plus for Koegel, who has on Gerry Faust's list of priorities experienced his share of setbacks
last nine contests, including the this spring. Yet with almost 20 Sugar Bowl against top-ranked as well. A dependable backup for practices under his belt, it is one Georgia, the past year has thrown three years, Koegel was in hot pur­
task that still remains to be com­some difficult obstacles in his quar­suit of the starting berth last Sep­pleted by the new Irish coach. terback quest. The sophomore-to­tember, when a neck injury prior be who saw more action as a
The field has narrowed con­to the opening game forced an ear, siderably in the last month -from fr~shman than any Irish quarter-ly end to his senior season. the eight or so players that began Starting spring practice with a contesting for the spot on March clean slate, a new offense, and his
Spring Football'81
28, the depth chart has dwindled high school coach has given the down to three leading candidates. Cincinnati, Oh. native another 
But the two who are at a dead chance. heat in the race for No. 1 -Bl"air "The coaching change has Kiel and Tim Koegel -want the back since 1951, witnessed the definitely been to my advantage," most ofien asked question of the says Koegel. "The type of offense
departure of the coaches who deemed him the starter last season, 

spring answered after Saturday. we'll be running next year -the "I'd feel a lot better if the and the return of two senior quar­drop back and pocket passing -is coaches would pick a number one terbacks who petitioned for an ad­better suited to my abilities. It's and a number two before we leave ditional year ofeligibility. basically the same offense I ran at so I'd know what I have to ac­"It surprised me a little when Moeller for four years." complish next fall," says Kiel, the they (Koegel and Greg Knafelc) The fact that Koegel has been incumbant and most experienced 
decided to red shirt," admits Kiel. reunited with Faust fueled rumors ofthe group. "But when I found out, I just that the 6-4, 200 pound senior "It would be nice to know by the realized there wasn't any use in would automatically get the nod as 
end of spring drills where worrying because there was no­Notre Dame's signal caller. 
we stand," agrees Koegel, a veteran thing I could do." "Coach Faust made it clear right He's adjusting equally as well to away that he wouldn't favor
senior heading into his fifih season with the Irish. "There's a dif­the change ofcommand among the anyone," Koegel responds. "Being ference in your mental preparation coaching staff. "I knew when the in the position that he's in -Notre 
over the summer, depending,on Dame's head football coach --henew coaches came in that I'd have 
whether you're first or second. to prove myself all over again, and can't afford to do that. He's got to Tim Koegel that last year was history as far as
Both players may get their wish play the best people." after Saturday's Blue-Gold game. they were concerned. It's back to Just who is best is what the coaches hope to determine on Saturday. So far, the strengths and weaknesses of both players have prevented one from gaining the upper hand. Kiel, the better runner, feels he
Gibbons not tapped in draft 
has made progress with his throw. "I've gotten to be a better passer, even though I really don't think that was a weakness of mine," ex­

The uneven tapping of the typewriter, occasionally 
plains the Columbus East, In. punctuated by a disgusted sigh, is the only noise com­product. "My statistics weren't ing from behind the dosed door. Tom Gibbons has a that good last season because we final project to complete, and he isn't going to finish it threw mostly on third and eight ­by staring at it. not exactly the best passing situa­
It is Day Two ofthe National Football League's annual tion," says Kiel, who feels his collegiate draft, but to Gibbons, it seems more like Year quickness compensates for his Two. He isn't harboring any delusions ofgrandeur, but smaller size. that doesn't seem to make it any easier. Typing a Koegel, heralded for his rifling
against some of the top passers in the country over the 
voluminous paper helps take his mind offthings a little talents, continues to work on
past few years." bit, but well-wishers keep popping in, asking if there is eluding the rush. "Coaches in the
Indeed, Gibbons' resume was impressive enough to 
any news. past almost drilled it into my head
convince some "inside" people that his intelligence
Not for Gibbons, there isn't. Only one of his Notre that I couldn't run," he says. "A lot
and desire possibly could make up for. the fact that he 
Dame teammates, centerJohn Scully, had gotten a call of it was a mental block. But I've
might have been ten pounds too light and a half-step 
on the first dav when the 28 NFL teams went through seen overall improvement in
too slow four rounds, b~·t Pete Holohan, jim Stone, ScAt Zettek myself this spring -I've gained
"Some people said I'd get drafted for sure, others said. 
and Tim Huffman are gone by lunchtime Wednesday. confidence and I feel more relaxed
there was no way I'd go, and some told me that they
"I guess that's everybody," says Gibbons as he forces now."
didn't have a clue. Right now, it looks like the ones who a laugh. "Oh, I almost forgot about John Hankerd. He'll The quarterback battle may 11101
didn't have a clue were right," he says, again forcing a 
go." end with the completion of Kid's
smile. The tvpewriter in Gibbons' Keenan Hall room is first spring season and Koegel's
Whether or not any ofthe NFL teams were impressed more th~n a necessary evil, and it is more than just a last. Both have scheduled a busy
with Gibbons' credentials, somebody else was. As an din~rsion -it is a symbol. On other campuses, at summer of running, throwing, and
aerospace engineering major, Gibbons received no 
schools where their products in the NFL can't touch lifting, and neither will throw in
fewer than six job offers, and has narrowed his choice ~otre Dame's record for graduating its players, seniors the towel come August. Sopho­
down to McDonnell-Douglas in St. Louis and Northrup 
may pass the time watching the soaps or shooting pool. more Scott Grooms is right beh1ind
in Los Angeles. He also has earned a deferred accep­
And as Tuesday afternoon crawls into Wednesday after­the pair, and Ken Karcher, a Parade 
tance from Harvard's MBA school. 

noon, panic sets in. Ali-American, is on his way in.
"Sometimes I think other people are worrying about 
Thl·re's just not a whole lot of demand for physical But despite the intense compj~fi­
the whole thing more than I am," Gibbons says, before 
education majors who are just a step too slow to play tion, the two have maintained a
quickly adding, "It is kind oftough, though."
fullback in the NFL Once that realization begins to postive attitude.
As his visitors stare at the telephone sitting silently 
dawn, the panic turns to fear. "I feel better now than I did last 
on the floor, Gibbons returns to his typing, answering
For all the anxiety going through his mind as he sits fall," says Kiel, who denies he's un­
good luck wishes with a shrug. 

on a couch and sips a beer, that's one problem Tom der more pressure being the in­
"There's not much I can do about it." 

Gibbons doesn't have to lose any sleep over. The cumbant. "I was lost when I first 
Gibbons' phone never does ring. But its silence 
traumatic idea that he might not play football fore,·er is got here. I had to get to know [he
doesn't make this story a tragedy, only a disappoint­
something Gibbons came to grips with long ago. players and adjust to college ball.
ment. In fact, his story is a comedy compared to the 
"I always said that I'd like to play pro ball, but I never It's been a big improvement this
plight of those who woke up this morning with the 
took anything for granted," he says. "Up until this year, I spring."
prospect of neither a job nor a degree. The sight of a 
had just about ruled it out -I just wasn't considered And Koegel has no regrets about
college star desperately bouncing from pro camp to 
good enough." returning this year. "It's bt:en
pro camp isn't a pretty one. But with his second straight academic All-America easier to get ready for fall this
Several teams have been in touch with Gibbons, and 
season and Notre Dame's surprising 9-2-1 season, Gib­season than ever before," he of­
the chances are good that he'll be invited to one or 
bons opened a few eyes in 1980. fered. "The challenge ofputting in
more camps as a free agent. His decision on whether or 
What those eyes saw, though, was a player who at the new system has generated
not to attend will be based on several factors -his 

BlatrKiel 


Irish 
•


stgn fouricers 
ByBRIAN BEGLANE 
Sports Writer 
In with the new and out with the old. 
A disap.,ointing final season as a member of the Western Collegiate Hockey Association behind it, Notre Dame looks ahead to next year when it enters the Central Collegiate Hockey Association. 
The first order ofbusiness was to fill the holes in the lineup for next year caused by graduation, and as­sistant coach and recruiting coor­dinator Len Moher has all but wrapped up that assignment. 
Moher and head cooch Lefiy Smith recently announced the sig­ning offour players to national let­ters of intent to attend the University next fall. The Irish must replace graduated defensemen jeff Brownschidle, Don Lucia and Scott Cameron and lefi wing Kevin Humphreys. 
Joining the ranks of the Irish icers next year are: defenseman Steve Ely of Woodbridge, Ont.; Sean Regan, defenseman from North St. Paul, Minn.; center-lefi wing john Deasey of Edina, Minn.; and lefi wing Brent Chapman of Agincourt, Ont. 
"Len has done just an outstand­ing job in his first year as chief recruiter," said Smith. "All four players we have signed are top prospects and should help us next 
year  in  our  first  season  in  the  
CCHA."  
Ely,  a  6-2,  205-pound  defen­ 

seman, will become the fifth graduate of Fr. Henry Carr Secon­
6-1,181 pounds, didn't quite measure up to the NFL's computers, which demand that their defensive backs run like halfbacks, hit like linebackers and fill the uni­ bride-to-be, Saint Mary's senior Lexi Swedish, which job he decides to accept, and the philosophy of the teams that invite him.  great enthusiasm. I'm enjoying football a lot." IRISH ITEMS -The Irish com­ dary School to skate for the Irish next year. He lettered three times in hockey at Carr and totaled seven  
forms ofoffensive tackles. "I guess I'm a little bit smaller than some of the guys  "I don't want to go someplace where I'd be wasting my time," he says.  pleted their last practice in full pads yesterday...they'll have a li(~t  goals and 28 assists this season. "Steve is a very strong, physical  
they like in the defensive backfield," he allows. "But  Because he didn't waste his four years at Notre Dame,  workout in sweats on Friday...Faust  defenseman,"  said  Moher.  "He  
you compete against some pretty talented athletes right here at Notre Dame, and we've certainly gone  that's something Tom Gibbons won't have to do.  congratulated everyone on a great 18sessions.  plays the body well and skaters See ICERS, page 11  








