Student Senate page 3 

VOL XVI, NO. 43 an mdependem student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1981 
Five more years 
Hesburgh remains at helm 
By KELLI FLINT was asked to remain for five years to Hesburgh added that he has no Executive News Editor convey the point that 'this is not immediate plans for the next five going to be an annual decision that years. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh ac­keeps the campus, the Trustees, and "I tend to live day by day," he said. cepted an offer from the Board of frit:nds of the University stirred up "This place is on a constant upward 
Trustees to remain in the position of and uneasy'. beat, and we take our projects one at University President for another five "It may not be five years, but we a time". years. hope it will," Stephan said. "We just Stephan explained that the Trus­
According to Edmund A. Stephan, want to put speculation to rest". tees did not name a new President 
chairman of the Board of Trustees, Fr. Hcsburgh commented that he because although the Chancel­the decision to retain Hesburgh is not 'jumping for joy' over the lor/President formula was appealing came from an ad hoc Trustees' com­Trustees' decision because he felt as an abstract way to 'get at the 
mittee on succession after it had that now would be a good time to problem', when the Trustees took a received recommendations from 
'get out'. 'good hard look' at the situation they numerous sources, including a "l had pretty much psychological­thought it was best to continue with faculty comm t ittcc. ly prepared myself to be Ch,anccllor Fr. Hesburgh. 
"The decision resulted mainly and someone t:lsc President," he from the Trustees' conviction that said. "When you get a call from the University Provost Timothy we have at this University great people you're working with, O'Meara added that the faculty con· however, you plan to go along with
leadership and have had for 30 sidcrcd the: Chancellor/President years," Stephan said. them." · formula 'too complicated'. 
"We have in Fr. Hesburgh a man who is in rigorously good health and as intellectually alive as I have ever seen him, 
Trustees , Reps discuss
"The conviction fianlly came to us that we should not change the leadership when we have such a 

student problems
winning situation," he added. Stephan also noted tha_t Hesburgh 
By KELLI FLINT O'Hara towers, which currently Executive News Editor houses 146 female graduate stu­dents . has the underground utilities
34 survtve 
Student housing and social space to facilitate 500 students. were the central issues studc:nt He: proposed that the University representatives discussed with the usc available money to continue



Refugees die in shipwreck 
Student Affairs Committee of the: building on the Grace-O'Hara site. Board of Trustees during a meeting "This would allow room for 350 
llll.l.'iiiORO IIEACII, Fla. (AP)­gcant in this town .35 miles north of tides, swam safely to shore, Galt: last Thursday. more graduate students," he said. Thiny·three Haitian rdugecs Miami. said. Survivors told authoritit:s that Students who attendc:d the Jurado stressed the need for a new drowned early yesterday after their By midmorning, th<: dead -their the four missing Haitians, identified meeting include Student Body Prc:si­housing dirc:ctor and additional off­k-aky, 2'i·timt wooden sailboat near-naked bodies twisted into odd, as boat captain Charles joseph and dent Don Murday, Student Body campus housing. broke up in rough surf less than a positions by the fierce waves that his three mates, also made: it safely Vice President Tara Kc:nney, Jurado added that the Campus Life half-mile from shore, the U.S. Coast dumped th<:m ashore -littered the and then tied the scene on foot. Graduate Student Union President Council Task Force is promoting a <luan.l said. The .34 others aboard beach along with ship debris, includ­The survivors seemed to be in Catherine Tkacz, Graduate Student full-time off-campus housing direc­the boat survived. ing the broken mast. The partially good shape, police said. They were Union Representative Dennis Staffcl­tor. · 
It was the worst such accident submerged ship's frame washed to treatt·d for exposure and saltwater bach, Housing Cabinet Hc:ad Patrick We have pH·scnted this idea to the since heavy influxes of Caribb~:an within SO feet ofshore. inhalation by police and paramedics, Borchers, and Off-Campus Commis­Studc:nt Senate:. and now will rdugn·s bq,:an arriving by boat "It looknl like a ·combat zone. then put on a bus for the Krome sioner KathyJurado. present it to the CLC as a whole, she more than three years ago. There were bodies everywhere," Avc:nuc refugee detention center Staffelbach introduced the: said. 
P~:tty ( >fticcr Daryl Gale said all said police patrolmanJoe Dente. southwest of Miami. housing issue by noting a problc:m Jurado also noted that the: current the bodies washnl ashore, and a The dead included 19 men and 14 The survivors said they left Haiti with housing fur male graduate: stu­off-campus h(>Using director is also Sl·an:h hy hdicopters and boats was women, including three who were on Aug. 26, spent a month in the dents. the rector of Morrissey hall. suspl·ndt:d shortly before noon. prc:gnant. All were dcscribc:d as Bahamas, then departed five to "Each year we have bctwt•c:n 700 "He: is the only University rcpre­
"YOli come so close. llalf of them "young adults" by authorities at the: scvc:n days ago. They claimed no and 800 new graduate students," sc:ntativc rcsponsibk for off-campus made it. half of thl·m didn't. It's so Broward County morgue. Staffclbach said. Presently, to house housing, and he: already ha.~ a full­
See SHIPWRECK, page 5

sad." said Dan Hynes. a police ser-Thirty Haitians, aided by strong these students we have St. Joseph's time job," she said. "He: himsdf hall and Brownson hall. agr,·cs that he docs not have the "St.Joseph's houses about 74 male time and energy to put into all of the 
students, and Brownson houses five problc:ms that comet under the: posi­to ten male students each year. The tion ofhousinAodircnor" remaining space is reserved for Jurado added that the: CLC task 
Mountain climbing, etc. 

priests, which leaves us with ';()0 li>rcc: hopc:s the: new Housing dirc:c­students each year who arc: ti>rcc:d to tor will work with the off-campus sec:k housing off-campus." 

'Adventure travel ' on the rise 


By TIMOTHY HARPER Travel industry spokc:smcn estimate Housc:r is one of 
:lssudatetl Press 2.:\ million Amnicans who take adventure vacations, climbing frozen ruggc:d summits with the minimum of t:quipmt:nt, st·uha diving among razor-sharp coral rcct:~. 
NE\\ YORK (AI') -Dave: llousc:r was a Manhattan hacking through jungles to observe the cc:n:munial puhlic relations l'Xl'l"UtiVC:, SUlTCS~ful anu "surroundc:d danct·s of hcauhunting SLone Age tribes and soaring hy concrl·te and glas~ and th.: natty problc:ms of cor­hang glidc:rs through narrow, rocky cha~:>ms. porate politics." Thc:r take: rn·ks, not vacations. They arc: travc:lcrs. not 
Exn·pt on vacation. Thc:n he would tly, ride:. hike:, raft tourists. aud canol. Each year. lw \\Tnt dc:epcr and dn·per into "They arc: looking for lx·ttcr ways to spc:nd thc:ir vaca· tlw Anll ril·an wildnnncss. Thc:n he took on the jungles tion time." says Bob Citron ofSeattle, who runs an intc:r­and rnountain1> and tundras tlung around the world. national adventure: travel consulting business. "They 
Ami c:ad1 year, he wt·m dcqJlT and un·pn into the afl· looking ti>r intdlcnual challc:ngc and pc:rsonal satis­plwnoml·non of "adn·nturc: travd." llousc:r l'vc:ntually faction." quit his job and Nc:w York City. lie: now livc:s in Cunncc­Citron -who says guided adventure: trips range 
til:ut and works from hiking and camping in the Cascades for SS"i a wc:ckend to a ninc:-day journey to the: North Pole for
a.' a frc:dancc: TUESDAY.-'i/!iiliWA:bl{if{WM@i

ph( >tojou rnaI ist .~l,h'iilim*'-'''-*W;m., S7,000 -bc:lievcs adventure travel appeals to people with time, money and interest in strange, strenuous ad­
:~~~i~~~~:;:~1 ~ravc:iln it}~D\1~ F 0 CUS venture. "They want to sec for themselves what they've seen
In t hl· past fc:w iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

yl·ars, he has on television in National Geographic or Jac4ucs Cous­rc:tran·d Darwin's scic:ntifk explorations in the teau specials," he said. Galapagos Islands. He has steered a six-foot dinghy Indeed, tor the: money, a modern traveler can follow dose enough to touch a 60-foot whale. He: has con­the footsteps of many explorers. lJUl'fl'd thl· white: water of Maine's Allagash River and Pat Dickerman runs a New York City travel agency jou11<:ed a four-wheel drive vc:hiclc: through Iceland's 
jaggc:d lava tklds. See ADVENTURE, page 6 
See PROBLEMS, page 5

Staffclbach added that Grace:­

ND junior dies in hometown car crash 
Notre Dame junior Anthony 90 I Notre: Dame: A\'Cnuc with 

Murphy. 20, was killc:d in an Notre Dallll' Sllllknts Steve 
automobile accident Friday tkt. Sic:rawski. Rich Turgl·on, Dan liar· 
16 shortly aftn midnight in his ron and John Tusky. Murphy had hometown of Montgomc:ry. lnu. A hl'l'll Studl·nt Coordinator in memorial service will be hdd Sun­charge ofMudc:nt workc:rs at North day at .3 p.m. in Sacrc:d Heart Dining llall since: thl· sc:cond church with Fr. Theodore Hc:s­Sl'lllt'ster of his sophomore: yc:ar. burgh presiding and Fr. John Fitzgerald delivering the homily. Surviving family mc:mbc:rs in­
Murphy, an clc:ctrical c:ngincer­clude his parents Mr. and Mrs. ing major was tht· only passc:ngc:r james Murphy and his two sistc:rs in the car at the time of the acci­Anita, 21, and Jamie:, IH. Murphy's dc:nt. family will attc:nd 1he: nll'morial 
Murphy lived in Stanford and service. All ND-SMC students, Zahm halls his first two years at faculty and administration arc also Notre Dame and had been living at inviteu to attend. 

Tuesday, October 27, 1981 -page 2


ewsBriefs I 


Donald P. Kelly, president and chiefexecutive officer ofEsmark, Inc., the diversified Chicago-based holding company with int.:rests in consumer products and industrial chemicals, has ac­cepted the position of chairman of the Edward Frederick SGrin Society at the University of Notre Dame. The announcement was made by Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president of the University. "Don Kelly will give the Sorin Society the dynamic leadership it needs to become an integral part ofthe advancement program ofthe University," commented Fr. Hesburgh. The Sorin Society, in­augurated in 1976, is named for the founder of the University of Notre Dame and recognizes individuals who have demonstrated a tangible interest in supporting the University as well as those who wish to become more closely associated with its purposes, plans and programs. Membership in the Sorin Society is offered to friends of Notre Dame willing to make an unrestreicted annual gift of $1,000 or more. -The Observer 
The Juggler, a University of Notre Dame literary magazine, has been awarded second place in a national competition for student publications from 132 colleges or universities in 35 states. Published once each semester, the magazine contains prose, poetry photographs and illustrations. Editor oflast semester's award~ winning issue was Lawrence J. Siems, a senior in the college of Arts and Letters and a resident of New Hope, Minn. Fr. Mario Pedi ofthe Office of Student Ativities serves as moderator for the magazine. A cash award of S200 accompanies the second place trophy. Oberlin College's Plum Creek Review received first prize in the contest, sponsored by the Coordinatieng Council ofLiterary Magazines, New York, N.Y. -The Observer 
Dr. George Pimentel, chemistry professor at the 
University ofCalifornia at Berkeley, will spend two weeks from Oct. 
26 to Nov. 6 at the University of Notre Dame to deliver a series of 
DistinguisHed Scholar Lectures funded by the Camille and Henry 
Dreyfus Foundation. In addition to discussions with faculty and stu­
dents on research topics, Dr. Pimetel will give two public letures on 
"Science and Public Policy" on Oct. 28 and "What is a Chemical 
Laser?" on Nov. 4. Both will be at 8 p.m. in the Memorial Library 
auditorium. Dr. Pimentel has served on national committees con­
cerned with science and public policy, and with his research group 
discovered the first chemically pumped laser. His work in rapid scan 
techniques led to the design of a unique infrared spectrometer for 
the 1969 Mariner interplanetary spacecraft to determine the com­
IJOSition of the atmosphere of Mars. Coauthor of seven books, he 
helped compose a chemistry textbook used in high schools across 
the country. -The Observer 
"Best Legs On CatnpUS" belong to a dog? Folks at the University of Washington will answer that question this week in a contest sponsored by campusfraternities and other groups. Among the I 0 candidates for the title is Denali, a male Malamute who is mascot for the UW huskies. Also in the running are male and female students, administrators and staff members. To vote, campus com­munity members will place 25 cents in one of 10 jars bearing a photo of a nominee's legs. The winner of the "Best Legs on Campus" con­test will be the person -or dog -whose jar contains the most money when the voting ends. Ballot box stuffing has been en­couraged since the money will go to United Way of King County. ­
AP 
A28-year-old manhas been charged with possession of a controlled substance after police in Ogden, Utah found 160 LSD­saturated stamps bearing the image ofthe cartooncharacter Snoopy, in his Ogden home. James Elmer Maes was arrestt>d Thursday after police raided his house. Police Lt. William Stettler said the stamps apparently are being printed in Colorado and distributed through western states. He said the Salt Lake City authorities suspect the stamps are being sold there, also. None, however, have been seen, he said. -AP 
The leaderofa 14-member French expedition that scaled Kanchenjunga, the world's third highest peak, died in a fall as he was descending the 28,146 foot summit, Nepal's Ministry of Tourism said yesterday. The ministry identifed the dead man as jean jacques Ricouard, 29, of Paris. A spokesman said he was killed Oct. 15 after he slipped and fell nearly 1,000 feet down the mountain 350 miles northeast of here. Ricouard and another member of the _expedition had climbed the southwest face ofthe Himalayan peak without using oxygen, a ministry spokesman said. Ricouard's body was left behind when the expedition left base camp Wednesday for Katmandu, the spokesman said. -AP 
Italian firefighters went on strike yesterday to back demands for more men and more meat in a protest that forced the nation's airports to shut down, officials said. Unions accused the government of failing to pay each firefighter a promised monthly hazard bonus equivalent to $52 and did not implement agreed upon dietary regulations to provide more meat and less pasta in firehouse meals. A union statement also accused Parlament ofdragging its feet on legislation to increase the fire corps to 21,000 men. The Interior Ministry scheduled meetings with the unions to discuss the demands. -AP 
Becoming partly sunny today. Cool with high in the mid 50s. Clear and cool tonight. Low in mid 30s. Partly sunny tomorrow. High around 60. -AP 
AP 

Photo 
File 
Finding the right pumpkin is an im­portant part of Halloween for Sarah Auth ofHerndon, Va. Aftersearching the piles of pumpkins, she displays her choice. 


War veterans gather in a Paris suburb for a peace rally. Holding their regimen­tal flags, they called for an end to arms buildup in the world. 
The_Ohs.erYer 
Design Editor ....................... Monica Gugle 
Design Assistants ..........Suzanne La-Croix 
Typesetter ............................ Stephen Brown 
News Editor ..................... Cathy Domanico 
CopyEditors.......................... Kathy Murray 
Valerie Evans Sports Copy Editor ............. Dave Dziedzic Typist ...................................... )eanine Hynes Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor ................. Karen McMahon SMC Day Editor ....................... Cece Baliles Ad Design ................................ Fran & Corbs Photographer..........................Susan Quinn Guest Appearances .................. Multimedia (Looking like hell) News editors and assorted bigwigs 'Ma Bell Loves Me' Ryan "I would ifl could, but I cannot I know." 
The Observer (USPS 59B 920) is 
published Monday through Friday and 
on home football Saturdays. except 
dunng exam and vacation periods. The 
Observer is published by the students 
of Notre Dame and Saint Mary"s Col­
lege. Subscriptions may be purchased 
for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by 
writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The 
Associated Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 
Second class postage paid at Notre 
Dame,lndiana46556. . J 


montgomery® 
will conduct interviews on this campus MONDAY, NOYEMBER2. Career positions in vertical transportation MARKETING/ MANAGEMENT will be discussed with degree candidates in BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION. For more information about Montgomery and our future visit to your campus, contact your placement office. 


montgomery® 
ELEVATORS: ESCALATORS POWER WALKS & RAMPS 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 
Montgomery Elevator Company, Moline. Illinois 61265 Montgomery Elevator Co .. Limited, Toronto, Ontario M9B3S5 Offices in principal cities of North America 

~----------~------~ 
j 
The Secretary ofthe Polish United Workers Par~v Central Committee, Zbignew Michalek, talks to striking members of Solidari~v during his visit to Lugogora state cooperative in Zielona Gora. 

Leo Theisen, Walnut Grove High School football coach, played catch 
while picketing. Some residents of this 
Minnesota town think the teacherS: 
strike is hurting the image ofthe small 
town immortalized by authorLaura In­galls Wilder. 


The Observer Tuesday,October27, 1981-page 3 


Senate discusses Trustee meeting 

In Brinks robbery 

Slain convict provides link 
NEW YORK (AP) -A convict armed robbery in which he shot and Liberation Army and Weath t er Un­slain in a gunhattk with police was wounded two officers but jumped derground had planned to kidnap linked yesterday to the t:arlier S 1.6 parole two years later. executives of major corporations for million Brink's heist in which mem­But police said Smith had no ransom, according to a published bers ofthe Weather Underground al­known connections with any radical report. legedly kilkd two policemen and a or terrorist group. A hearing was postponed for five 
guard. In other developments: people charged in connection with a 
Police sourl·es said a . 3M-caliber The arraignment of Burns was violent demonstration last month slug found in the pocket of the con­postponed until today at which time against a South Mrican rugby tt:am in vict. Sam Smith, came from the gun court will convene in Kings County which acid was thrown at a police 
of Nyack Police Sgt. Edward Hospital, officials said. Prison offi­officer. A car registered to one ofthe O'Grady Jr., one of those killed. cials acknowledged that Burns was defendants was used in tht: Brinks 
Always a featured attraction of the annual Notre Dame-USC

Smith was killed and Nathaniel hospitalized after sustaining "blunt shootmit. 
spectacular, the Southern Cal porn porn girls dance up a stom1 for

Burns, a former Black Panther, was abdominal trauma" of undisclosed Two Weather Underground 
the crowds of curious onlookers gathered on the sidelines after

arrested following the Friday origin. fugitiYes arrestt:d friday night in tht: USC's bard-fought 14·7 victory over the Irish on Saturday. The girls 
shootout in Queens. Both men were Documents found in a raided East Bronx waived extradition to New 
and the Trojan marching band dazzled spectators with their post­

wearing bulletproof vests and Smith Orange, N.j., terrorist safe house Jersey before a U.S. magistrate in 
game show. (photo byjohn Macor)

had a bandaged chest wound consis­showed that the merged Black Manhattan. tent with having a slug stopped by his vest. 

West Bank controversy
O'Grady, another police officer, and a Brink's guard were killed last Tuesday during thl· ambush of a Brinh armored car and subsequent 




Egypt, Israel seek agreement 
shootolll in suburban Nyack that led to the arrest of the Weather Under­ground's Katherine B<mdin. JERUSALEM (AP) -Israel and paremly will lYe dropped from the The Cairo meeting will be the t1rst war Sadat. • 
The ballistics test provided the Egypt shifted strategy yesterday in agenda until an agreement on the ministerial-level talk in eight wn·ks. A major question Is whether the t1rst ddinite link between the two negotiations on Palestinian self-rule, council is reached. Low-level technical teams began Palestinians will accept the incidents, thl· police source said. seeking swift agreement on an Until now the two sides had meeting in Tel Aviv last week and proposals and vote for the council. 
Smith and Burns were spotted in elected council to govern Israeli­sought a broad agreement on the will work through Thursday on the They say they want full statehood <.}ul·cns last Frida}' in a car with a occupied territories, Prime Minister principles ofautonomy, and the shift autonomy issue. and have so far refused to participatl· license plate matching one seen on a Menachem Begin said. to setting up the council appeared If the council is agreed' upon, in the talks arising from the Camp car connected by police to the Begin said after a 90-minute designed to achieve a speedy accord Begin said, "this will bc a real David an:ords. Brinks case. meeting with Egyptian Foreign Min­on at least one major point. breakthrough and a real changl·." He Asknl what woulll happen if thl· 
The ballistics results came as a ister Kamal Hassan Aly that future To underscore the ·desire for said a resolution of differences OVl'f Palestinians boyconell the dection. grand jury sitting in a Queens court­talks would concentrate on the size, quick agreement, Begin announced the council was "the key" to the Begin quoted Sallat as having said house began hearing evidence stem­functions and powers of the council that the next round of talks was whole autonomy issue. that in th;H case "we han: done our ming from the Queens shootout. for the 1.3 million Arabs ofthe West moved up five days and would open The United States has been calling duty." 
Smith's police record, extending Bank of the Jordan River and the in Cairo on Nov. 4. He pledge~ for an extra effort to break the The implication was that Egypt back to 1963, included charges ofat­GazaStrip. "every effort" to wrap up an stalemate and strengthen Egyptian and Israel would wash thdr hand~ of temptl·d murder and robbery. He The issues ofwater rights, control autonomy agreement by the end of President Hosni Mubarak's position autonornr and the bradi ot:cupa· was imprisoned in 1971 for an ofstate land and internal security ap-the year. as suc~essor 10 slain President An-tion would continue. 


UNITED WAY ! THE BROOKLYN UNION GAS : 
STUDENT CAMPAIGN 


: COMPANY CONGRATULATES : Attention ·All : THE 1982 GRADUATES OF : : NOTRE DAME. :
SECTION LEADERS : Hyou are interested in •
• Mandatory Meeting tonight :working for an innovative •• in Library Auditorium at 6:30 pm •
:energy company considered 
• : a leader in its field, we will •
• 


:be recruiting on campus on •
• 

:Nov. 10, 1981. : 

: Please visit your career planning center for details.: • 


ByJIM PLAMONDON 
News Stuff 
The Studt:nt Senalt: met last night to discuss the meeting· of the Board of Trustees, held Oct. 22. Student Body President Donald Murday gave a detaikd account of the meeting's topics ofdiscussion. 
Off-campus housing dominated most of thl· discussion last Tuesday. Cacherine Tkacz and Kachy Jurado described che problems faced by both the graduate students and seniors while they searched for af. fi>rdabh: Jiving quarters. 
Tkacz suggested that many graduate students were interested in Jiving on-campus for economic reasons. She also asked thc Trustees to consider a committmem w orr­campus housing by building an addi­tion to the Grace-O'Hare townhouses. 
Jurado asked for and received a S I 0,000 grant for the dorms in order to improve the social space and party rooms. 
A survey will be distributed later in the year to fully understand stu­dent's desires and ideas for next year's off-campus housing. 
Student Body Vice President Tara Kenney also discussed the Coeduca­tional social life at Notre Dame and possible methods to improve it. Her goal is more social integration be­tween men and women and the im­provement ofsocial space. 
Murday offered suggestions for the improvement of Chautauqua, the coffeehousl in LaFortune. He described the frustrations the Senate is experiencing with their attempts to make it a student "hang-out". 

Murday concluded the meeting with the Trustees by requesting and receiving permission to form a group of people to study the quality of life at other universities so that ideas may be used to improve various aspects of the Notre Dame community. 
Murday felt that overall the meeting was "very constructive" and the relationship between the Student Senate and the Board of Trustees was "looking good". 
--~---~--------------------------------------~ 

The Observer 

Tuesday, October 27, 1981 -page 4 
50-70 billion 


Republicans seek tax increases 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Senate Republicans intend to seek between 1150 billion and 1170 billion in tax in­creases over the next three years as part of their attempt to cut budget deficits by $1 1 5 billion, sources said yesterday. 
The sources disclosed the tentative target as Senate Finance Chairman Bob Dole, R-Kan., con­firmed that his panel would begin drafting a bill to raise taxes early next year. 
Dole predicted that Congress would enact the increases, but he spelled out few details, and did not mention how much the committee's Republican majority hoped to raise with its legislation. 
But sources have reported that ad­ministration and congressional offi­cials have drawn up a lengthy list of options, including higher excise taxes on alcohol, tobacco and gasoline, an import fee on crude oil and disallowing tax deductions on consumer debt -interest, except for home mortgages and car loans. 
"The Finance Committee is study­ing a number oftax increase options, including the loophole-closing 
proposals  advanced  by  the  ad­ 
ministration  and  excise  tax  in­ 
creases," he said.  
Dole  said  he  hoped  hearings  

would start on the bill before Congress adjourns for tht: year. 
Senate Republican Lt:ader Howard Baker of Tennessee and others said, however, that most of the effect would be felt in the 1983 and 1984 fiscal years. 
Sources said Baker has spoken with President Reagan to discuss the GOP plan, although there has been no official White House reaction. Baker and other key Republicans in Congress are expected to meet with the president later this week to dis­cuss his economic program. 
Dole's statement followed a day of confusion over Senate Republican plans after Baker said on Sunday there would be no tax increases for the 1982 fiscal year. 
He corrected himself yesterday, saying that because it would be relatively late in the fiscal year before the measure could be passed, any tax increase in 1982 would be modest. 
Sources said that no consensus has been reached among Senate Republkans on which proposals to advance, although one official said the kast desirable option was to backtrack on the three-year, income-tax cut that passed earlier this year. 
These sources also said that whik there was no final agreement on ex­actly how much should be raist:d in higher taxes, Senate Republicans who met privately for several days. last week decided the $50 billion to S70 billion was the range needed to meet their overall goal. 

The careerdecisionyou make today·
could influence national securitytomorrow. 
For professionals at NSA contribute to the dual missions of foreign intelligence production and communications security. 
Our Electronic Engineers, Computer Scientists and Mathematicians are working with systems at the cutting edge of technology. 
Career opportunities and challenge await you in any of these NSA career fie!~. 
Elec:tronit Engineering: There are oppor­tunities in a variety of research and development projects ranging from individual equipments to very complex interactive S}Stems involving large numbers of microprocessors, mini-computers and computer graphics. Professional growth is enhanced through interaction with highly experienced NSA professionals and through contacts in the industrial an$! academic worlds. Facilities for engineering analysis and design automation are among the best available. 
Computer Sdente: At NSA you'll discover one of the largest computer installations in the world with almost every major vendor of computer equipment represented. NSA careers provide mixtures of such disciplines as systems analysis and design, scientific applications programming, data base management systems, operating systems, computer networking/ security, and graphics. 
Mathematic:s: You'll work on diverse Agency problems applying a variety of mathematical disci­plines. Specific assignments might include solving 

communications-related problems, performing long­range mathematical research or evaluating new techniques for communications security. 
Unguists: NSA offers a wide range of challeng­ing assignments for Slavic, Near Eastern and Asian language majors involving translation, transcription and analysis/reporting. Newly-hired linguists can count on receiving advanced training in their primary languages and can plan on many years of continued professional growth. 
NSA also offers asalary and benefit program that's truly competitive with private industry. There are assignments for those who wish to travel and abun­dant g<Xld living in the Baltimore-Washington area for those\who wish to stay close to home. 
Countless cultui'al, historical, recreational and educatiorlal opportunities are just minutes away from NSA's convenient suburban location. 
At NSA\your future will be linked to the nation's. The vital role that the National Security Agency plays demands .and ensures constant challenge and profes­
sional gro~.
1b find ut more about NSA career opportunities, schedule an interview through your college placement office. For a\:ldi,tional.infonnation on the National 
1\, ; 
\ ' 
\-·-· 
I• ' I 
I \ 
i I .. 

\ \ ·' 
\ ' 
Security Agency, fill in the information blank below and send it to Mr. Bernard Norvell, College Recruit­ment Manager, National Security Agency, Attn: Office of Employment (M32R), fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer. U.S. citiZenship required. 

~~ 
_. "u'\ o~~ The N~tional ~ r;(!l :Se(!urtty 
~o~"" ~,~·' Agency 
More than just a career. 
r-------------------1 
1 I'd like more information about career opportunities with NSA. 1 
I I
I Name (print) I 
I Address I 
I I I I 
1 Phone No. I I I 
1 Degree Level Major 1 I I 
1 University 1 
~------------~-----~ 

The Observer Tuesday, October 27, 1981 -page 5 
Against PATCO 



Judge refuses contempt dismissal 

INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Judgt: Calc lloldt:r of li.S. District Court turnt:d down a rt:qut·st yt:sterday to dismiss contt:mpt proceedings against striking mcmbt·rs of the Professional Air Trame Controllers Organization. 
After lloldt:r's ruling, defense at­
torneys for two PATCO locals and 
19 PATCO membcrs or sympat­
hizt:rs hq(an introducing evidence 
in tht· defense portion of the casc. 
The defendants arc charged with violating an injunction issued by lloldt·r on Aug. ~ prohibiting strike activities in conneuion with the nationwidt· air traffic controllers 
strike. 
The government alleges the ddendants violated tht: court order in a series of actions by allegedly threatening or harming tratlk con­trollers who remained on the job. 
Government attorneys ended their case with a video tape of a demonstration outside the Federjll Court Building on the first night of the contempt proceedings trial Oct. 16. 
Defense attorneys objected w the showing of the tape, which was made by an FBI agent, on the grounds that it was unrelated to the allegations in the government's complaint. 
Holder, howevet, ruled it could corroborate conduct charged by the government. 
Also yesterday, defense attorneys called to the witness stand Keith Schupp, one of the defendants, who denied government testimony that 
he was involved in an incident Oct. 3 
when acid was thrown at a control­
leer leaving his job. 
Schupp said that at the time <>fthe 
incident he ~as at least a quarter 
mile away having lunch with his wife 
and another PATCO member. 
He also presented a different ver­
sion of an incident Sept. 5 when he 
was struck while riding a bicycle by 
Clifford Armstrong, a working con­
troller. 
Armstrong previously had tes­tified that Schupp tried to impede his travel as he was leaving the air tratl1c control center and swerved his bicycle into the path ofthe car. 
Schupp, however, said Armstrong only blew his horn once and struck him ti-om the rear as he looked over his shoulder to sec the car. 
For Mid East 


Administration seeks defense monies 
WASIIINGTON (AP) The Reagan administration says it will ask Congn·ss next year for money to strengthen the armed forces to meet the threat ofa full-scale Soviet attack in the Middle East. 
"We intend to tailor our forces, using those forces in the region plus rcint(Jrcement units from the U.S., to meet an evolving threat," the State and Dcft:nse departments have told the congressional Joint Economic Committee. 
The oftkials said a Soviet attack was "the most dan~crous potential threat" to U.S. intert·sts in the Middle East, and added that the United States is working toward an ability "to meet tht: most dt:manding threat" in the rt:gion. 
Rt:p. Henry Reuss, D-Wis., chair­man of the committee, released the administration's statements yester­day, describing them as "important and disturbing." 
"Those who believed that the Reagan administration had already proposed a dramatic buildup in our military forces may have a surprise coming," Reuss said. "How many bil· lions more will he required in the Persian (iult?" 
The committee had asked officials of the two departments a series of questions about the administration's military plans and its commitments in the Middle East. 1 
In their joint response, the two departments said that "the most dan­gerous potential threat to U.S. inter­ests in the region would be a Soviet attack, perhaps at the invitation of some fa<:tion in a regional state or on 
a  pretext  designed  to  exploit  
regional  instability."  
"We  are  on  a  path  towards  

development ofa capability to meet the most demanding threat in the region which, inherently, will also provide the concepts and tailored forces necessary to cope with many lesser threats," they added. 
"Since the Soviets would need time to build up their forces for a major incursion in the area, we could ust• that time to deploy forces to meet that challenge should it become necessary. We arc in the process of expanding our capabilities to deploy forces and to sustain them." 
"The Soviets have distinct ad­vantages in terms of projt:ctmg power into the region given their 
that Fr. Heppen be be responsible
continuedfrom page 1 
for directing the expenditures. commissionn and the students, im­"I don't want this money tot go tiJr prove relations with landlords, and privelcgcd uses such as rcplacin~ expand the oil-campus housing list. perfectly good furniture," he said. "I 
Borchers proposed a $10,000 think that by having Fr. Heppm in fund to improve social space in the control of who gets what amounts, dormitories. we can prevent this kind of thing. 
In addition. Borchers proposed "I think that if Sl 0,000 is set aside 
• • • Shipwreck 
co••tinuedfrom page I 
money or smugglin~ was involved in the voya~t·, police said. 
Tht· overcrowtkd boat buffeted 
hy five-foot waves, be~an leakin~ 
late Sunday, survivors said. A large 
swell roared over the boat early yes­
terday and swamped it, survivors 
told police. 
A resident of a beachfront con­
dominium <-'allt:d police at 5:30a.m. 
to report groups of Haitians walking 
alon~ the beach. Within minutes, the 
first bodies bc~an washing ashore 
along a I0-milc strip of private 
bt:ach bdow posh high-rises in the 
town of 2,400 people. 
Among the bodies was that of an 
obviously pre~nant woman, her 
arms stiffly reaching out over her 
swollen stomach. The youngest ap­
peared to be an adolescent with ;. 
stubble of beard on his chin. His 
hand had clawed deep into the sand. 
Nearly 50,000 Haitians and, in the 1980 Cuban boatlift, nearly 125,000 Cubans have come to this country by boat in recent years. 
In May 1980, 14 Cubans drowned when their boat capsized. There were several incidents of Haitian drowning involving two to four people, hut no accidents com­parable to the yesterday's sinking. 
close proximity to the area," they said. "Consequently, there is a need for progressive military develop­ment to deal with...possible Soviet incursion scenarios." 
No monetary figures were men­tioned yesterday. The officials said the requirements are being studied and will be presented to Congress 
Balloonists came to Strasburg to participate in the fourth an­
when the administration presents its 
nual Pennsylvania bot air balloon championships. Twen~y-five
budget for the 1983 fiscal year. This 
balloons Wt>re registered for the race to benefit the Cystic Fibrosis 
is due in january. 
Foundation. (APPhoto) 

SMCBoarddiscusses participation 
By MARY MCINERNEY the liturgical celebrations taking News Staff place on campus. Fisher distributed a booklet explaining the guidelines Saint Mary's Board of Governance for liturgical scheduling, planning met last night to discuss the lack of and participation. The Board will en­student participation in Campus courage and educate the student Ministry and the Board of Regents. body to take part as often as possible 
Sr. Veronice Fisher from the Saint in campus-wide liturgical celebra­Mary's Campus Ministry Team tions. addressed the Board concerning fur­Eileen Murphy, student body ther cooperation from the menibers president informed the Board about of student government in educating the Board of Regents meetings 
the Saint Mary's Community about which took place during break. The 
meetings were attended by student government representatives, Eileen 


' Problems

'' 
Ibe 0bse--~~er­
---. -='--'----&.~Y.J ­
Murphy, Emmy Lopez, and Donna 
Perreault. Murphy intimned the 
Board of Regents about current stu­dent government projects, includ­ing che parictals issue and the need for a Student Union, as well as some of the current problems of com­munication between the Board of Regents and Student Government. 
Other issues discussed at the meeting were the Newsletter, which will be distributed next week, and the meeting with section leaders planned for this Thursday. 

in the form of matching funds, we . can do a lot of good for the social 
needs a 

atmosphere on campus without just 

Wednesday Day Editor. This

making it a handout to the dorms." Murday concluded the presenta­

is a paid position.

tions by reiterating his proposal for a new student center. "I have grown weary of pounding 

Interested? 

on doors for a student t·enter," he 
Call Tim at 8661.

said. "Administrators agree that stu­dents need something, yet nothing 
concrete ever happens." 
Director of Student Activities James McDonnell added that LaFortune Student Center does not adequately serve the social needs of students. 
"I really believe that for Notre Dame, LaFortune is the worst facility we have. In the area of social facilities, we arc -really behind." 
Murday proposed that a group be charged by the trustees to study other universities similar to Notre Dame in size and residcntiality. 

BANKING FUTURES AT MERCANTILE! 
If you're interested in a banking career, cons1der Mercantile Bank­headquartered 1n St. Louis AND Missouri's largest bank. 
We offer a w1de var1ety of opportunities 1n Accounting & Audit1ng, 
Bond Portfolio Management, Data Processing, Operations, Trust 
Investments and International Banking. New graduates with de­
grees 1n General Business. Accounting, Finance, Marketing or 
Business Management are encouraged to apply. 
We offer competitive salaries, good benefits. educational 

assistance, merit promotions and more. We'll be on campus: 
Friday, November 6th 
Sign up for an interview today, or send your re­sume 1n confidence to: 
Manager of Employment



ME:RCAnTilE 
MERCANTILE TRUSTBAn< COMPANY N.A. 

Anyone interested in being the 1981-82 Notre Dame Hockey Team· Mascot PUCKY PENGUIN-
Contact: Len Moher-asst. coach at 8488 or 8416 

-~------~--~-----------------------------------., 


Kills policeman 
~ IUc~arll f s 

IRA bomb explodes in l1Jndon 
The Observer 


The Student Senate once again gathered in sion. Thf main topic on the agenda was the past Hayes Healy last nightfor another interesting ses-Trustee meeting. (photo by Sue Quinn) 
• • • Adventure 
continuedfrom page 1 
and books many groups on horseback trips on the 
prairie and mountain trails of the Old West, outfitted 
with equipment and supplies similar to that ol 
trailblazers suf=h as Jim Bridger. 
The peopk who pay up to $2,000 fJJr her trips ­
including onJ on which the travelers qarticipate in a 
real cattle drlve -scrounge for their ~wn firewood, 
saddle their own horses and catch their own cutthroat 
trout. 
"They want to participate," she said. "They want 
something of a challenge. They want to experience 
something different. They want action and thn want a 
chance to learn something." ' 
Dr. David Shainberg, a Park Avenue psychiatrist who 
encourages some patients to go on adventure vacations, 
says "There's a direct contact with the world where you 
yourselfperceive the experience. You actually learn for 
yourself." 
Some I,200 travel companies and outfitters offer ad­
venture travel vacations. 
An outfitter who had 200 passengers on runs down 
the Cheat and New Rivers in West Virginia in 1972 now 
has more than 15,000 river runners a year. 
Up to 200,000 Ameri'cans go on scuba diving trips 
each year, while 140,000 go on wildlife safaris in Africa 
and 70,000 take treks through the mountains of Nepal. 
Adventure Travel magazine's 100,000 readers are 
typically 34-year-old single men from the Northeast or 


:H.AJH!l IJiE&Jc&N@I 

Open 6 days a wee~,_:: LONDON (AP) -A ScotlandJust Yard explosives expert was killed

417 DIXIEWAY / 

yesterday while trying to defuse a
North 

across from Wen~y~ bomb planted by IRA guerrillas in a
of 

fast-food restaurant on London~sCampus 27]-0734 . __ crowded Oxford Street, police said. Another bomb was discovered in
personalized Hair Designs 

a nearby department store and defused, police said. The Irish Republican Army issued a statement in Bdfa.-st claiming responsibility for the bombs.
i-r.~v.--0~---i The blast shattered the front of Wimpy's hamburger bar and ~aused
I 00 I panic among hundreds of people on the street, London's most popular
I [f]~ THE FuauA Sc~ooL I 
shopping district. Police sealed off
I iilllii OF BUSINESS I the area. Earlier yesterday, police in Pon­I I typridd, Wales discovered and defused a fire bomb planted in a
I I 
British army recruitment office. The


1 A representative of the Fuqua School of 1 
office is only a few hundred yards 

I Business will be on campus Friday, I 
r---------------------------------------•


TONY'S SHOE SHOP 
I November 13, to discuss the Duke MBA I 
Shoes, boots, keys made 
I Program. Interested students may obtain I 

Repairs-zippers, shoes, etc. 
I further information by contacting the I 
2 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS 
I Placement Bureau. I 

Open 6 days 8-5 
X

I I 
15% off wI this coupon 
~
I I 
t:::l 

the West Coast who have attended college and now work as ptofessionals or managers and earn $41,000 a year, Edward Sheffe, the editor, said. However, he added, more and more families and older people are being attracted by vacations such as archeological digs, which are neither as strenuous nor as dangerous as mountail)eering or diving. 
"They'te urban bound, looking fot sometnmg not on­ly to get t>ut of the city but that prqvides some excite­ment, too," Sheffe said. "A lot ofl it ha.o; to do with self-fulfillment. Many of us who gretv up in the '60s are still searching for that." 
Many of the new breed of traveler also seek out nature as part of their interest in the environment. 
Arnold Mitchell, a Manhattan psychiatrist, says this about a month-long trek through Nepal to the base of Mount Everest: 
"You start to gain a different perspective of your life in the world, the feeling that you're small, the feeling of the vastness ofthe world and your little place in it." 
Houser said few adventure trips are really dangerous, but some risk is always involved in strenuous travel through unfamiliar terrain. 
"It's a nice respite from normal sedentary life," Houser said. "There's no great risk in most of our lives...The danger and the risk is part of the attraction, like the thrill rides in an amusement park. For anyone trying to get the most out of their time on this planet, risk is an important part ofit." 
Tuesday, October 27, 1981 -page 6 
Police investigate sisters'· strange deaths 
JESUP, Georgia (AP)-Four-year­old Olympia Kenish Reddish was the first to die. Three younger girls followed -all daughters of the same man -and authorities say they are baffled. 
l'he girls, three sisters and their half-sister, died under similar cir­cumstances betweenjune 28, 1980, and qctober 13, 1981. 
Medical investigators and police are unable to determine the cause of their deaths and are not sure if they are dealing with a string of homicides or some rare disease. They are hoping more tests will solve the mystery. 
"We have no idea what killed them," said Joel Smith, police detective in this southeast Georgia town. "We just know things like this don't happen every day. 
"It's hard not to think there's some foul play in it, but we have no proof," he said yesterday. 
The father, whose name was not released, did not live with any ofthe children but visited them on occa­sion, police said. He will undergo further questioning and medical tests, but said that he "doesn't have any idea" what caused the deaths. A fiftQ' daughter, 2, by a third woman, will also be tested, he said. 
Olympia Reddish died after she 

Philly la,bor leat/ers back striking teachers 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Philadel­unanimous to support the tef!chers phia's labor leaders voted yesterday and "bring about a contract that is for a general strike and mass just and equitabk." demonstration Wednesday in sup­The teachers struck Sept. 8 after port of a 49-day teachers walkout the school board, faced with a S223 that has kept more than 200,000 million deficit, laid off 3,511 children out ofpublic school. employees, canceled a 10 percent 
"The work stoppage is on, and I pay hike, and made other cutbacks say it will be very successful," said to balance the 1981-82 budget.' Edward Toohey, president of the So far, the school board has Philadelphia AFL-CIO council which managed to open classes for fourth represents 350 local unions with graders, some in junior and senior some 250,000 members. high, and for retarded and blind 
Toohey, following three meetings pupils in about 200 of the city's 268 with labor leaders, said the vote was schools. 
from the route Prince Charles and Princess Diana will take Thursday during their three-day tour ofWales. 
Police said they suspected Welsh nationalist extremists ofplanting the device, and had increased security around the the royal newlyweds. 
The second Oxford Street bomb was discovered by police dogs in Debenham's department store 400 
1 yards down the street from the Wimpy restaurant, but was defused, police said. 
Police cleared the restaurant of 175 customers and staff after a man with an Irish accent gave telephone warning of the bomb. But the ex­plosives expert, Kenneth Robert Howorth, 49, was killed when the device exploded in a basement toilet. 
Scotland Yard said Howorth who was married and joined the police in went back to bed afte t r playing m her yard. Her mother, Phyllis Denise Worley, said she checked on her daughter later and found the girl had stopped breathing. She was pronounced dead a few hours later. 

Tiffany Marsunh Reddish, Olym­pia's 9-month-old sister, was in her crib July 14, 1981, when her mother found that she had stopped breath­ing. 
She died three days later in the in­tensive care unit at Wayne Memorial Hospital. 
On the same day Tiffany died, 19­month-old April Thakira Gaston, daughter ofOla May Gaston, refused to eat breakfast and went back to bed at midmorning. Her mother checked on her later, but could not awaken the child. 
..·1 thought she was asleep, but she was dead," Ms. Gaston said. 
On Oct. 13, Ms. Worley's third daughter, 2-year-old Latoia Monich Reddish, refused to eat breakfast. She complained about pain in her stomach and head, and Ms. Worley put her back to bed. 
Ms. Worley found her dead less 
than an hour later. 

Smith said autopsies were per­
formed on all four children, but "all 
the autopsies have been negative, 
completely negative." 

1974 after serving 23 years in the Royal Army Ordnance Corps, was wearing a helmet and padded fiberglass vest. 
"It was terrifying," said Susan Crossley, a secretary who saw the explosion. "Concrete and glass seemed to fly everywhere." 
Awaitress evacuated from the res­taurant said of Howorth: "I will never get over this. To think that man died for us. If it wasn't for the bravery ofpeople like this I could be dead." 
The outlawed Irish Republican Army's "Provisional" wing claimed responsibility for the Oxford Street bombs in a statement issued through the Republicn Press Center in Bel­fast, capital of Northern Ireland. "The British people should press their government to withdraw from our counr~ '," the statement said. 
"Then th,  will  be  no  bombs in  
London ar.  here ca n b e peace in  
Ireland."  

"Let the Briti!>h people take note that Irish children, the victims of plastic bullets fired by tht:ir soldiers, do not have:: the luxury of receiving warnings. In furure when we give warnings, respect them." 
This indicated the guerrillas plan more atta<;ks in London. Yesterday's bombing was the third IRA strike in the British capital since Oct. I 0. 
~---------------------------~----------· 

----------------------------------------~ -------------­
l 
The Observer Tuesday, October 27, 1981 -page 7 l j 
$34 a barrel 

Cut proposed for OPEC 



ment at Thursday's meeting, analysts said. 
Venezuela opposed a base price of S34 a barrel at OPEC's last meeting in August. But Calderon Berti, Venezuela's energy minister, had in­dicated recently he would com­promise on Venezuela's $36-a-barrel price ifan agreement was ncar. 
"It would be extremely compli­cated for Venezuela to remain is­olated from the other countries," Berti had said two weeks ago. "We want to contribute to OPEC's unity." 
But Marc Nan Ngucma, the car­tel's secretary general, was yuoted by the Kuwaiti newspaper Al-Siyassa yesterday as saying Venezuela was holding out fur a_hase price of S36 a harrcl. 
The newspaper reported that the OPEC secretary general held lengthy discussions with Kuwaiti Oil Minister. Sheik Ali Khalifa Al-Sabah during a one-day visit this past weekend. 
"Saudi Arabia still i11sists on unify­ing oil prices at S34 a barrel, while 
( AP) -A report by a Kuwaiti newspaper yesterday that Venezuela is resisting a proposed cut to !34 a barrel in OPEC's base price for oil has raised new doubts about the outcome of a special meeting of the cartd this week in Geneva, Switzer­land. 
The session was calll'd on ex­pt·ctation~ that tht· Organization of Petrolum Exporting Countries was ready to end its divisiveness and es­tablish a benchmark price of S34 a harrcl. 
But Venezuela is seen by industry analysts as a key to OPEC's lengthy struggle ~o unify prices, and the Kuwaiti report, yuoting a top OPEC official, has raised new doubts about whether the cartel will reach agree-
U.S. committed fully to improving relations 
MOSCOW ( AP) -ll.S. Ambas­Vasily Kuznetsov, also denounced ~ador Arthur A. Hartman pk-dged terrorism and subversion and urged )'l'~tl·rday thl· l !nited States is "fully Moscow to stop supporting Cuhan 
commitll·d" to improving rdations with Moscow. hut said the Soviet !Inion won't show "restraint" in its policies and actions. 
lk also said the United States has no choice hut to respond to "a major and unprovoked" Soviet military buildup. 
Hartman, pn:sl·nting his cn:dcn­tials to Soviet First Vice President 
Europeans contribute to Middle East 
LUXEMBOURG (AP) -Britain, France, Italy and the Netherlands have agreed in principle to con­tribute troops to a peacekeeping force that will oversee lsrad's final pullout from the Sinai desl·rt next year, Frcnl·h Foreign Minister Claude Cheysson said yesterday. 
Other ministers declined to con­firm the decision. 
However, a Common Market source said a formal agreemt:nt and a joint declaration by the I0 Common Market countril'~ would he issued as soon as details of the tilfce arc worked out. 
Nationwide 
contest open 
to all students 
A nationwide contest i~ open l(Jr 'tudcnt papt-r~ on international husinc.,s subject.,. The u>ntt·.,t is open to alii -~-and li>n:ign. gradu;rte and umkrgraduatl' student~. t·:ntrants do not han: to he husinl'SS 
major~. 
A preliminary draft of a proposed paper. in accord with contest guiddine~. is dul· Decl'lnher I. 
I<>HI. at the Institute of Internation­al Fducation, sponsor of this com­tWtition, as part of its 7th Student Conkrcnn· on Internatinal Busi­nl·ss, .\larch I<;-16, 19H2. The Stu­dent Confcrl'llt'l' ' is an uftlcial adjunct of the -i<;th Chicago World Trade Conh.-rcnn·. 
Thl· firM-place winner must be ahk-to prl·~ent paper in Chicago at the \'forld Trade Con· ti:renl-c/Studl·nt Conference, and will receive a S'\00 prize, travd ex­pl·nse~ to Chicago from within the Continental li.S., and the Chicago W'orld Tradt· Conti:rence Award. 
First runner-up will fl'l'l'ive a S2'i0 prize; all other Finalbts will ren·in· S75. Winning paper~ arc usually published. 
For furthl·r information contact: Philip Byers or Marian Laud. c/o Stu­dl'IH Confl-rl·nc.:e on International Business, ln~titute of International Education, 40 I Wabash Ave., Suite 5~4. Chicago, Ill. 6061 I. 
actions against "sovereign govern­rm·nts." He said Afghanistan should be "non-aligned, secure and free of outside interference." 
Hartman's statement at the cert·mony was released by the U.S. Emhassy. In accordance with tradi­tion, llartman read some ofthe state­ment aloud and gave Kuznetsov the text. 
Venezuela's latest proposal sug­gested $36," said Nan Nguema. "Each side has its prices." 
Kel~y Quinn looks at everyone in total amazement as she tries to organize her belongings after a funfilled and ad!'enturous mid­semester l'acation. (photo by Sue Quinn) 
•
• 
•
• 
• 
• 
• 
• • 

OPENS OCTOBER 30th AT ATHEATRE NEAR YOU! 

.rhe Observer Tuesday, October 27, 1981 -page 8 
------------------------------------~--·----------·----·-~-~-----··-------~·------·-·­



Israeli opposition leader Shimon Peres recent/)• met tl'ith Egyptian president Jlosni .~luharak to express condolences ot•er Anu•ttr Sadat's death and extend his good ll'ishes for U uharak's term. 

Reagan -launches blitz to get AWACS sale 
\\ ASIII:\<iTO~ ( AP) -\\ith a climactic Senate \'Otl' just two day~ away. President Reagan launched an all-out blitl. on the opposition yes­terday in a bid to resCUl' hb SH. ';­billion arms sale to Saudi Arabia. 
Bdilre the day was over, he had picked up one vote and the opposi­tion had gained one. 
Reagan called seven senator~ to his oftke yesterday -tlve declared opponents and two who were un­deddnl -and aides said he might talk w a dozen other Senators hdilre the showdown tomorrow after­noon. 
lie is trying to O\'l-rcome opposi­tion to thl' sale of A WACS radar plane~ and F-I '; jet tighter weaponry. a plan already rejected by the House by a )0 I to I I I vote. 
Sen. William 1.. Armstrong. R­Colo.. left the White !louse yester­day saying he was still undecided, hut announced a few hours later that 

-----------------~
I GOOD TIME PIZZA I 
I formerly Pasquale Rulli I
1 232-1883 I $2.00 off large pizza 
I 
I Opponents must win a majority of the senators present and voting. 51 if all senators vote:, to win approval ofa
1 
I 
veto resolution against the sale. At the: White House, spokesman Larry Speakes said, "\X'e've still got a 
way to go. "We're concentrating on a group
I of sc:ntors who arc undecided" or who have expressed an interest in talking to the president, he said.
II 
Speakes said Reagan may see as many as a dozen more senators today and tomorrow but refused to identify them. 
he will vote for the sale. 
Sen. Patrick Leahy. D-\'t.. who abo had been UIKommittnl. took to the · Senate tloor even as the \\'hite llousc meetings were in progrcs~ to say he will vote against the sale. 
Leahy said the ~ale would "start an avalanche" of arms rnjucsts from other Arab countries and said the ad­ministration has no underlying .\liddlt-East policy to justify such sales. 
We've still got a way to go' 
Yesterday's announcements h~ Armstrong and Leahy raised the Senate line-up to <; ';-)H against the 
sale  according  to  the  latest  As­ 
sociated Press count.  
The  opposition  includes  53  

senators who have announced they oppose the sale plus two who say they arc leaning against the dc:al. 


DEVO 
Q:Are We Not Men?A: We Are Devo! 
Includes Uncontrollable Ur!le/Jocko Homo (I Can't Get No) Satisfaction Come Beck Jonee 

EKS-74007
s 19119 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief............................. .John Mc.Grath SMC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Executive News Editor......................... Kelli Flint Photo Editor........................................John Maeor
The Ohsert•er is an independent Editorials reprc:scnt the opmwn of a 
News Editor ..................................Tim Vercellotti 
newspaper published by the students of the n • .tjority of the: Editorial Board. Commen­
News Editor.............................David Rickabaugh Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola
llnivcr,ity of \lotrc Dame du Lac and Saint taries, opinions and letters are the views of Sports Editor ..............................Michael Ortman Controller............................................ .Joe Mulflur
.Yiary's College. It docs not necessarily their authors. Column space is available to reflect the policies of the administration of all members of the community, and the free Editorials Editor.......................Anthony Walton Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen either institution. The news is reported as expression of varying opinions on campus, Features Editor .........................Gregory Swiercz Production Manager ...................Michael Monk accurately and as objectively as possible. through letters, is encouraged. SMC Executive Editor...........Mary Agnes Carey Circulation Manager ......... ...Tom MacLennan 


Sports Brie/§ 
The Notre Datne cross country team 
lini~hnlt hird out of 22 team~ at the Indiana State ( :hampion~hip~ in \\ e~t l.atayettt·. Indiana on October I (lth. ~I arc \\'ozniak Hth. Tim Cannon 12th. hi \\ illl'nhrink I·Hh. Tim Bartrallll lOth. and And\ Dillon <;'ith paced the Irish. At the Cnltral Collegiate Champion­ship~ in Ypsilanti, ,\lichigan last Saturday the Irish linishnl a dis­appointing ninth out of l'i team~. -Tbe OIJSl'rl'er 
Baseball coach Larry Gallo will 
be present tomorrow at the mt·t·ting of tht· Fellowship of ChriMian Athll'tes. Tht· pre~entation will he held in the Badin llallchapel at H::'O p.m. 
H :A promotes ( :hristian ti:llowship among athll'te~ and coaches in hopt·s that this will he shared with the larger comnwnit\. All in­tere~tnl per~ons arc invitnl to attend. -The (}/JSl:''t'er 
Free adtnission will bt· given w the ttrst t.ooo students with ;t Notre Damt· I I> card for 1his Friday's Notre Dame-Nortlwrn ~lid1igan hm·key game at the ACC. Tht· game, which begins at H p.m .. is the t1r~t CCIIA home game ever for the Fighting Irish. -The 0/J­
st,rt'er 
Notre Dame field hockey team has 
one game remaining this seasot~_ after winning two out of tlvc contests ovn the pa~t week. The Irish defeated Marion, :'-0. and Rochester. 
1-0. They droppt·d contests to Colgate, .1-0, to Houghton, 2-I. and to Syracust·, I 0-0. The Irish are now I 1-H. In the tlnal game of the st·ason. Notre Dame hosts Ball State at 4::10 p.m. today on Alumni tkkl. -The Obsert•er 
Notre Dame volleyball team was 
1-4 during tht· past week. The Irish defeated Rochester but dropped matches to Colgate, Syracuse, East Strasburg, and Ithaca. Notre Dame is now 1.1-1 H on tht· season. (;oshen invades the ACC pit tomorrow at 7 p.m. 
-The ( Jbseruer 
The Notre Dame Lacrosse team will hold a 
short. but manditory meeting for those wishing to play varsity lacrosse this spring tomorrow at :1::10 p.m., in the ACC auditorium. -The Obsen•er 
Tuesday, October 27, I9H 1 -page 9 

Three lawyerS from Nt'\\ Y<>rk ( ity will bt· pane liM~ for a Sports and Elllertainment Law Forum to he hdd at Notre Dame's <:enter for Continuing Education on Friday. No\Tmht-r 6. The morn­ing session will run from I 0 a.m. to noon, and tht: aftertHH>Il session willlx·gin at 2 p.m. and con dude at ·f p.m. The three panelists will bt: Seymour Peyser. Rit'hardZahnd and Sidney Bluming. all of whom are specialists in this expanding tkld of law. Peyser has snved as YilT­President of and ( ;encral Counsel to l 1nitt·d Artists Corporation. Zahnd is (;eneral Counsel to :'vladison Square (;arden Corporatiun. the parent company that owns and operates the New York !\.nicks and Rangers Illuming once reprt'St'lltt·d the Nt·w York Yankees. ­
The Uli~en•er 
Basketball ticket sales and distribution lilr Notre Dame students will begin on .\londay, Nov. 2. The student basketball st·ason ticket will be split into two eight-game packages of equal quality as ti>llows: Package A -Saint Joseph's (Ind.)..\lurray State. Davidson..\1-aryland•.\Iaine. San Francisco. DePaul. and Northern Iowa; Package II -Yugoslavia Team, liCLA. Northern Illinois. Vil­lanova. Idaho, ,\1arqul'lte. North Carolina State and Fordham. Seniors and juniors only will have tht· opportunity to purchase Package A. Package B. or both. Based upon the dl·mand from the seniors and juniors. both packages may he otkrt·d to sophomores. graduate and law students. All sophomores. graduate, and law stutknts will be guaranteed at kast the opportunity to purdlaSl' one eight-game season ticket. Freshmen will be ofti:red the remainder on a first­come. tirst-scrvt·d basis. The student identification card and pay­melll must be presented at the ticket windows on the second floor of tht.· ACC. The price of the alternatives is as follows: Lower Arena ­
S24 for one package, S4H for both; Bleachers-sI H ti>r one package. S;16 for hoth. Make checks payable to the University of Notre Dame. No student scats arc preassigned. Therefore, if you desirt· to sit with a dassmate. you must present your !D's togcthn. No studt·nt may prcs<:nt more than four !D's. Seniors should report to the ACC on Monday, Nov. 2; juniors on Tuesday, Nov. :1; sophomores. graduatt· and law students on Wednesday, Nov. 4, and freshmen on Thursday. Nov. 'i f~om H a.m. to 'i p.m. Gate two will open at '::10 a.m. daily. .11arried students should report to the ACC with thdr respec:tin· dass and on the scheduled day. When picking up your tickets, please present evidence of your marital status. Saint .11ar)''s students. reganllc:ss of dass, may pick up lottery forms at the residence hall desks today through Friday. Return lottery form ((}the Student Ac­tivities' Office by this Friday. A list of lottery winners will be posted on Nov. :1 in rt.·sidcnce halls and in the dining hall. Lottery winners must bringS I H to Student Activities' office no later than Friday. Nov. 
6. -TIJe Obserz•er 
--·-·......-....-... ~-----· ...--­
FOOTBALL 
~z:~;;,~m;z,~ 
AP Top Twenty 
The Top Twenty college foolballleams 1n The As­sociated Press poll. With f1rst-place votes 1n paren­theses. thiS season s records and total po1nts Pomts based on 20·19-18-17 etc Notre Dame oponenls are 
Italicized 
1 Penn Stale(45) 6-0-0 1.259 2 P1t1sburgh (19) 6-0-0 t.235 -­
'3 Clemson 7-0·0 1.105 4 Southern Cal 6-1-0 1.079 5 Georg1a 6-1-0 990 6 Texas 5-1-0 893 7 MISSISSIPPI Siale 6-1-0 796 8 Alabama 6-1-1 730 9 North Carolma 6"1-0 630 
10 Anzona Siale 6-1-0 557 11 Iowa State 5-1-1 548 12 Nebraska 5-2-0 520 13 Soulhern Melhod1s1 6·1-0 509 14 Wash1ngton Siale 6-0-1 501 15 Mtchigan 5-2-0 435 16 Iowa 5-2-0 327 17 Florida State 5-2-0 272 18 Wash1ng1on 6-1·0 173 19 Oklahoma 3-2-1 . 128 20 Arkansas 5-2-0 104 
Saturday's Game Soulhern Cal 0 0 7 7 14 Noire Dame 0 0 7 0 7 
Scoring USC-Marcus Allen 14-yard run (Sieve Jordan 
kiCk) NO-Ph1l Carfer 5-yard run (Har~y Oliver kick) USC-Todd Spencer 26-yard run (Jordan k1ck) 
usc ND F1rst downs 16 19 Rush•ng altempls 45 49 Nel Yards Rush1ng 218 197 Nei Yards Pass1ng 46 115 Passes comp-allempted 7-14 12-23 Had 1ntercepled 0 0 T alai Nel Yards 264 312 Fumbles-losl 1-1 1-1 Pena1t1es-yards 3-35 0-0 Punts-average 8-37 1 7-40 t 
lndlvlduel Leeders 
RUSHING -USC, Allen 33-147· Spencer 7-74. Mazur 5-mlnus 3 NO. Carter 32-161. Monarty 5-18. Sweeney 3-14. K•el8-4: Mosley 1-0 
PASSING-USC Mazur 7-14·0. 46 NO K1el12­23-0.115 
RECEIVING-USC Allen 44·12. S1mmons 1-20. Moore 1-11 Spencer 1-3 NO Hunler 5-76. Carter 4-29. Maszlak 2-7. Monarfy 1-3 
Allendance-59.075 
The Observer Will accept class1fieJ Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4:30 p m. However. classtfleds to appear 1n the next issue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to 1nsert1on All class1heds must be prepaid. 

Classifieds either rn person or through tile r1ail. 


LOST. CANON AE-1 CAMERA DURING 1 need 2 Navy GA 11ckets Call 232-9652 Just a guy who hkes m1ce l hrs IS a mce personal lot Shrrley. our 
fa1thful oHrce manager (secretary for yotUSC WEEKEND IF FOUND. PLEASE 

. TICKETS l 
COLUMBUS. OHIO IS where I am headed clueless readers) who g1ves me m'VCALL2968 REWARD!! [ _____________j LETS TALK TICKETS!!'need 3 Navy GA on October 30 If you wanl lo see lhe meag~r check w1th a sm11e and a mean 

llckels.call M1ke al1130 Buckeyes or JUSt vtstl the bars on H•gh remark about my beard Shit. we love her LOST before break Brown Tweed Cap. street lhal weekend call MONICA a1 41-And what sa beard worth. anyway? Palch on lhe 1ns1de w1lh Donegal Penn Si !lckel wanled please call Donna DESPERATELY NEEDED 2g a slorlhe 5602 I have room tor three nders and Ill 
USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED. Tweed on 11 Please call Kev•n al3737 a16771 NAVY game Please call Kala al 8160 be relurmng lo Soulh Bend around 1 0 I need a real woman a flesty wench to SAT SUN 9-7 CASPERSON. 1303 p m November 1 help me thru to the xmas break I am rn­BUCHANAN AD NILES 
We need Navy G A s Call M•ke (1175) or DESPERATELY NEED 4 NAVY GAs terested 1n baroque recreatronal act1vr1tes 
Chns (1178) AND 5 NAVY STUDENT TIX PLEASE Look1nQ for a na111e. beaut1ful young after lruly m•nd· expand1ng foreplay I will OVERSEAS JOBS Summer/year CALL 1596 OR 1649 . woman to go w1th my roommate to a supply lhe k11ly l11ter No dogs please-f m round Europe. S Amer . Australia. As1a Need 2 GA TECH G A ·s W1ll lrade 2 screw your roommate th1s fnday I have out of paper Please politely call the M1m­Alll1elds $500-$1200 monthly S•ghlsee­NAVYG.A sorpayCASH. ALEX--x6931 been havrng some trouble. so I Will pay Gu1nea ai3317 
,.. ..••_ ••• __..._. w-----·-· 
lng Free 1nlo Wnte IJC Bo• 52-IN-4. subslan11al funds Call M1ke or George a1 Corona Del Mar CA 92625 Furnished House N1ce area Walk to Will trade any sfudenl llx. or pay$ for one r.--.t~""·rf.;·· ~·<!Jil',' 3360 you lhoughl ' d keep cui of trouble over
! f r .. ~~~~..t•"-.:."· f'il ~ · ~fi ;
NO Jlm3234 or 1wo GEORGIA TECH GAs Call Sue break d1dn 1you. 1ay? WANTED Babys11ter lor 2 1/2 year old lor 3731 ·-· -------------1 MIKE AND DAVE. from Jim
L .. ·­WED AND/OR Sal evemngs one m1le Furn1shed House N1ce area Walk to Thanks for vacatmg our room over break from campus Own transpertatwn NO Jrm3234 BIG BUCKS!I! I need two GAs lor NAVY and leav1ng II for V1v1an and I II proved 10 1•m twho slayed over break) says h1 Ia 
DON T MAKE A RIGHT 

preter1ed $1 00/hr KEEP TRYING and/or GA TECH PLEASE HELP!!' be a very ennchmg expenence ---·The DD CJ.ML.LS.KA.AS.SL.GD. and hope CALL277-0477 ROOMMATE WANTED lo share a COM­CALL FRANK 8820 sludly Flondran J I you had a great break mrssed you all 
Where stile redhead?

PLETELY furnished apl close Ia NO ON· tons. but especrally (you know who you molly galvin molly galv1n molly galvin w11h L Y $1 05 I monlh plus elec -call Dave at Need 3 Navy IIX lor folks call Erme al3852 Ph1hstmes and Salt Orps are everywhere­are) sm1le! 
BAGPIPES Whal are lhey? How do they
a name like SMCer she s galla be good 283-1169 after 11 00 p m after 10pm --you can 1escape them 
work? Whalrs worn underlhe k11l? Should hey marc1a how are all your little brats? 
Noire Dame have a p1pe band? For the
TYPING--Only $ 65 a page Call Dan. FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED to BLOOD AND GORE! Vanrans are everywhere You cant from Jimmy 
answers to these and other queSttons (or 
272-5549. before 9 P M share small, furnished home with If I don 1 gel 2 GAs lor any home game escape them No mafler how ha1d youlry
11 you )USI want 10 learn lo play lhe
aame. Ten minutes from NO. $130 per W1ll pay b1g bread KEVIN 8214 STUDENT TEACHERS ONLY SIX month Includes all utilities. Call 289-Don I Make a R1ghl' DAYS LEFT I 
bagp1pe--no mustcal expenence re­qu~red). come to a meellng tonight al'·----···'"-. l 91 t7 alter 12:30 p.m. NEED several GA or sludenliiX lor Navy 6 30 1n Fttzpatnck 356 Expenenced
Calf Mary 41-4972 Don I Make a Rrght and you all wondered rf 1d be bored over 
DRUMMERS Interested 1n a demonstra­
i L\.)~:.1/F".)LiND 

i MALE ROOMMATE NEEDED FOR FUR­break 3n IS good parfy ·from 11m ...... "N 0 0 ......._ .... _ ....t 
tion ol lhe 1ntncate style ol p1pe band
NISHED APARTMENT $110/MONTH FOR SALE CHEAP 2 NAVY GAS CALL DON T MAKE A RIGHT! !I UTILITIES PAID 287-5469 SANDY AT 6141 
drummtng are also encouraged to attend If mleresfed 1n enher p1p1ng or drumm1ng
f)USI wan11o thank the person who took Allnghl Call 4633 lo g1ve MARY ALICE her 
but unable lobe at lh1s sess1on. call8878
my 1ackellrom lhe d1n1ng hall and tned 10 Need many Navy GA tickets $$$ Call Birthday WHOOSH! BE IMAGINATIVE sell 11 back lome I was willing to pay you Mark at 272-8454 TEXAS CLUB MEET A TEXAN AT DIN­
TYPING' Fasl. accurate 1yp1ng al
lor 11. bul lw1ce you never showed up II \.'(b_N·n:r• NER NITE TONITE P1Ck up I·Sh1rts 1n EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO you are the same person who called up \-~.;;-.. ! ~ t .. i..:· 1 need 3 NAVY GA and alleasl2 GEOR· reasonable rales Call Lynn Saylor. 233· 828 Flanner lh1s week TYPING CALL 287-5162 
I 
3423

and did the same th1ng to the g~rl w1lh lhe GIA TECH TIX please help call ROSE
l. -----·­purse and lhe kid w11h lhe sweatshirt. I 3750 QUOTE OF THE WEEK: "WHO SLEPT Hey Rabb•l' 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST· Resumes $12. 
lhmk !hail speak lor all of us 1n say1ng lhal ON TOP?" Done any propagating laleiy?? Happy
lerm papers/lhes1s $25: m1sc 75 cents 
you are probably lhe lowesl form ol l1le TYPING WANTED Fasl Accurale. Close Are you from Jersey? rm from Jersey and 21si! Lois ollove The Sleaze 
page or ask lor quote 233-5861 after 6
that can ex1st and Reasonable 272-4105 or 272· 4272 I need 2 Navy GAs. Willing Ia pay$$ Call PPSYCH STUDENT-FACULTV MIXER I don I uMersland whal you are g01ng Kate 4419 pm 
10/27/81 AT PROF DAYS MEET AT LIB Happy 21 sl Birthday to Mar)\Kinselfa. our lo do w11h a 1acke1 like m1ne because you 
HELP!!' I desperalely need a nde to CIRCLE 6 40 PM CALL PAT x8409 FOR favonte lnsh tass! Hope lhas year 15 your certamly cant wear 1t and nobody else but Mad1son WI (Mad C1ly) for lh1s upcom1ng DESPERATE FOR 2 OR 4 NAVY GA INFO best ever' Love. Ann.EIIeen. L1zzae.
Male volunleer needed for 22 yr old cerebral palsy student to asstst on Mon­
me would buy 11 from you II you st1ll have halloween weekend Please call 3059 1f TICKETS CALL MIKE AT 1435 Carolyn. & Mary
days & Wednesdays al Holy Cross Jr
you are g01ng W1nn1ng No. 381037 Calf UBC lo cla1m 2 College from 12.30-3.15 p m call V S 0 A DRUMMER IS DESPERATELYmy 1ackel or any of lhe olher slull, I hope 
that you w111 senously cons1der g1v1ng 11 to NEED 1 STUDENT NAVY TICKET. CALL Ga Tech llckets 
X7308 

NEEDED TO PLAY AT THE can 1 understand how play1ng games l1ke ·..~ --~-··,-· ;.----.-~ -----Ilost & found. or arrang1ng to return 11 I MARY ELLEN AT 7872. 
CHRISTMAN NAZZ CAll DAN83a2 Volunteers needed Halloween week to
thiS turns you on. but your cheap thnlls Need 2 GAs lor Navy call Bnan 288-3108 SHOW SOMEONE YOU CARE WITH A
; k .:es/t.. Lt": 

ass1s1 JAYCEES in chanly lund· ra1ser MIKE FRAWLEY IS a !'Mill. --!a­
have come at the expense of others I MONTH OF FLOWERS A BOUQUET
·---· ' ,.._.___ . Haunled house fun lor kidS Be a k1d earth guy who wants to begm a.-.g­
hope lhal soon you w111 sn back and 1us1 Need NAVY GA T1ck~ls Call1210 OF FRESH FLOWERS DELIVERED 
aga•n! C•ll V S.O. •7308 lul relal1onsh1p lh1s Fnday mglll
think about how low you have been stoop­!OVERY WEEK FOR4 WEEKS VASE IN­Ing You are noth1ng but a loser SURPLUS JEEPS. CARS. TRUCKS Car­T1ckets for Sale 2 student navy and 2 stu­CLUDED IN FIRST DELIVERY. WED­
lnteresled ladles who like to bake c:ooi<leS UNITED WAY UNITED WAY UNITED
lnv value $2143 sold for $1 00 For In­den1 ga Tech Besl OHer 272 6454 NESDAYS FLOWERS 289-1211. call1812 
WAY GIVE YOUR FAIR SHARE NOV 1­
FOUND. Cameralnpod. 1den111y & cla1m. formation on purchasmg s1m1lar barga1ns. call6614 Call602-941-8014. EMI. 3648. Phone call WILL TRADE 2 NAVY GAS FOR 2 PENN 
8 Caro R1ch refundable ST GAS. IF INTERESTED. CALL 3119 
SINGING CHARLIE TELEGRAMS needs QUI ho Ia dolce v11a . Gel~ll e cooccolata 

UNITED WAY GIVE YOUR FAIR SHARE expenenced stngers. Call between 9-3 at hanna dellz1oso guslte. la-?11111&~ OF $2.00 OR MORE SEE YOUR SEC·I LOST MY INTERNATIONAL DRIVER 
LICENSE ITS A BOOKLET WITH FIVE STEREO EQUIPMENT I need 2 Georg1a Tech GAs for my 234-0959 Ianna m1m,-· ~rc;-:;'l_al DIFFERENT LANGUAGES. MY WHY WAIT FOR CHISTMAS? MAJOR parenls Please call Ann at 8038!1 
TION LEADER Lunella sono cacea. ag;=; e_ Only 796 days unlil1984. grande. Ou1 tuttl-sono 1 _ _. cePICTURE AND MY NAME VISOOT DISCOUNTS ON OVER 40 BRANDS­sono mente de spec1a1e· llnto ~u' Te
PHONGSATHORN IF YOU FIND IT. GET YOUR NEW SYSTEM NOW! CALL NEED 3 GAs for GEORGIA TECH . very CASH IN CASHIN!!I JAB JEB!!I DUMP PLEASE CALL 289-2119 JB' 8228 desperateif call Larry 1809 SIMON'!! 
For LeSchwartz I will always care Amaro. M•mi 

The Observer-Sports Tuesday, October 27, 1981 -page 10 
• • • usc 



continuedfrom page 1 

It was errorless play a lot of the time. "Except for the thing that's plagued us all year long," added Crable. "A little breakdown here and there." 
The breakdowns in the kicking game had a lot to do with Notre Dame's fate. Punter Dave Pryor bottled the Irish up at their own 2 yard line in the fourth quarter, and that set up the field position for USC's winning score. "It's funny," noted Pryor, "when it was 0-0 at the half, the coaches told me it might come down to kicking it inside the 20." 
Added to that were 22 and 24 yard misses by Harry Oliver that would have given :"oootre Dame the lead on 
·both occassions. "Everything was fine," said Harry about the first kick. "I just missed it. The left hash mark in that close is my toughest kick be­cause I have to come across my body, but that's no excuse." 
Faust took a delay-of-game penalty on the second try to give Oliver a berter angle, but Southern Cal refused it. 
"I don't know if that really dis­tracted me," Oliver remarked. "I figured ifwe got it, that it would be a little better angle -but still you've got to put the ball through the goal­posts. That's what it comes down to. and I just didn't do it. The snap was high and Tim (Koegel) still had his hand in front of the ball when I kicked it. I should have waited." 
Notre Dame will have to wait until next year to stop USC's streak offour straight wins over the Irish, a first in the history of the series. But the seniors came up short on their last chance Saturday. 
"I feel very sorry for them," of­fered Kicl. "It's been four years and they've never beaten Southern Cal." 
"We played our guts out and didn't come out on top," Crable added. "It makes it hurt that much more." 

And Faust is sympathetic to their pain. "What can you say to kids when they play that well? But we'll be alright. This may not have been a win, but it was still a great game for us." 
IRISH ITEMS an already depleted receiving corp suffered an­other setback when tight end Dean Masztak suffered a knee injury Satur­day.....the senior underwent knee surgery Sunday, and joins split ends Mike Boushka and Dave Condeni on the list of players lost for the season.....repres~:ntatives from the Sugar, Cotton. Bluebonnet and 
Holiday bowls were in attendance for the USC game.....Gerry Faust was limping off the field after the game because Trojan linebacker Chip Banks ran into Faust on the sidelines during the game....."I'm going to have trouble running out of the tun­nel from now on." he laugh~:d. 
Senior tight end Dean Masztak has played his last game for the Fighting Irish. He suffered a knee injury Saturday and underwent surgery yesterday. Masztak, regarded as one ofthefinest tight ends 

Bradshaw, Steelers defeatOilersin the nation, was one of Notre Dame's leading receivers this 
season. (Photo byjohn Macor) 

PITTSBURGH (AP)-Terry Brad­
f.....................................................................................'l 
I Ihe Obsenrer_ 
~ MANDATORY MEETING ~ for all Observer reporters. ~Wed., 6:30pm in the 
~ Observer office, 3rd ~ floor LaFortune. . 

. Bengals, upset Sunday by New Or­leans.
l ............................................,,,,,...............~ 
••IG.K,~:-n..a• !t-ItK 1Jii.Af'.ZFUaR®.JW!i. I ~MIUll.iWi!WiiWit.~f:~»X~• 
i 
shaw drilled a tie-breaking six-yard touchdown pass to john Stallworth with 3:41 left to play to spark the 
Pittsburgh Steelers a 26-13 victory over the Houston Oilers in a Nation­
~ 
al Football League game played in a ~ steady drizzle last night. 
The victory boosted Pittsburgh, 5­' 3, back into a first-place tie in the American Football Conference
' 

Central Division with the Cincinnati 
~ 
. .y 

Sunshine Promotions presents AN EVENI!\iG WITH 
Dan Fogelberg 

T 0 u R 9 8 
Dan Fogelberg's Band includes: 
Joe Vitale \like Hanna Kenny Pas~arelli \lark Hallman Russ Kunkel Barrv Burton 

Wednesday October 28 8p.m. Notre Dame A.C.C. All Seats Re<,erved Sli.SO and Sli.OO On Sale now at: A C.C. Box Office, Robertson\-South Beml & Concord \!all, St. Jue Bank-:\lain Branch, Firt l-ir<,t Bank-\lain Branch, l'he Elkhart Truth and Suspended Chord in Elkhart 
::;. 
I ~.· 
~.· 
!!!! 
•0Jil••"~~•n•maJ! •aw~,~-U~JIIJ(-~.-~!iilirarrJ 
~ I 3-10. minutes to play for the Steelers' final
I ::":'.:i~:·~ :·:c:y~n: :c~d• :':':• • • • • • • • • ': 
. . 
I ~ s • ••
I: • ~ 
I 
: . 

I 
: :


I~ ~
IDON'T6H NO I 

I ~ttraftf. l~ 
I : RODNEY :
8 • •
•
i : DANGERFIELD ••
I : 
I ~ 
1.··..·
I 
I 
The Oilers, who had tied the game 13-13 with a 10-point fourth-quarter surge, fell to 4-4 on the season. That ties them with Cleveland for second place in the tight AFC central. 
Though minus injured defensive startersjoe Greene, L.C. Greenwood and Don Shell, the Steelers limited Earl Campbell to 56 yards on 23 carries. In addition, Campbell lost two fumbles in Steeler territory as Pittsburgh halted a string of eight consecutive Monday night victories by Houston. 
Trailing 13-10 midway in the final quarter, the Oilers used a 31-yard fake-punt pass from Cliff Parsley to Adger Armstrong to keep alive a drive that ended with Toni Fritsch's 44-yard field goal with 5:53 to play. 
Earlier in the fourth quarter, Oiler quarterback Ken Stabler combined with tight end Dave Casper on a 52­yard touchdown pass play. Casper caught the pass at the Pittsburgh 3S and broke tackles by jack Ham and jack Lambert on his way to the end zo,ne to cut the Pittsburgh lead to goal, Steeler fullback Franco Harris broke loose on a 3S-yard run, and an out-of-bounds hit by Oiler lineback­er Ted Washington drew a 15-yard penalty that moved Pittsburgh to the Houston 19. 

With 3:59 remaining, Bradshaw threw an apparent 14-yard touch­down pass to Jim Smith, who had caught a 46-yard touchdown bomb in the first period. But the play was nullified by offsetting penalties. 
On the next play, Bradshaw scrambled eight yards to the Hous­ton six. He rifled a pass to Stallworth between a pair of defenders on the next play for the winning score. 
Dave Trout, who kicked two first­halffield goals for Pittsburgh, missed the extra point after Stallworth's score. 
The Oilers' ensuing drive was halted by a pass interception by Steeler safety Ron johnson, who returned the ball eight yards to the visitor's 12-yard line. Four plays later, Franco Harris plunged one yard for a touchdown with two 
.FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6 8:00 : NOTRE DAME A.C.C. • 
.: 
TICKETS ON SALE AT THE A.C.C. : BOX OFFICE. ALSO AVAILABLE : :AT: ROBERTSON'S INS. BEND, AND: :THE CONCORD MALL, ST. JOSEPH'S : • BANK (MAIN BRANCH), 1st SOURCE • :BANK (MAIN), ELKHART TRUTH, : 
I' 
: SUSPENDED CHORD (ELKHART). : 
·1 

The Observer-Sports Tuesday, October 27, 1981 -page 11 
John, Hooton square off in6 

NEW YORK (AP)-Awell-rested game, will try to even the Series for Burt Hooton will try to clinch the the Yankees just three days after World Seres for the Los Angeles pitchill£ two innings of releif in the Dodgers, who have the comeback ·Yankees' Saturday loss. john beat habit, wht.·n they play the fighting Hooton to give the Yankkees a 2-0 New York Yankees tonight in the Series lead. sixth gamt.· at Yankee Stadium. 
The Dodgers took a 3-2 lead in the bcst-of-sevt.·n Series with their third straight vktory Sundar. leaving " ..we'II have our George Stt:inbrenncr, the Yankees' 
work cut out for us
principal owner. to sound the battle cry -"we're going to come back in 
Tuesday."
!'lew York-just wait." 
Another battle cry sounded after Sunday's gamt.· was b}' a man who said, aecording to Steinbrenner, that New York fans arc animals and that The Dodgers got a boost Monday 
hb players choked. The man and an­when officials at a Los Angeles hospi­other man confronted Steinbrenner tal reported that third baseman Ron in a Los Angeles hotel elevator, Cey did not suffer a concussion and where the owner said he knocked was fine. Ccy was hospitalized after them both down after being hit by a being hit on he head by fastball from 
bt.-er bottk and punched. He said he Yankee reliever Goose Gossage in suffered a possible broken left hand. the eighth inning Sunday. Tommy John, the ex-Dodger who Cey was to be examined again 
beat his former team in the second later Monday before a decision on whether he could go to New York for the sixth game. 
A victory Tuesday night would enable the Dodgers to duplicate
• Inside
• • New York's 1978 World Series vic­tory in which the Yankees lost the 


continuedfrom page I3 
CAPTAIN'S MEETING -For all the captains of Co-Ree Basketball and Co-Ike Volleyball, there will he a mandatory meeting held in the ACC Auditorium at 4 p.m. and 4:30 p.m.. respectiv1h·. 
HOCKEY -· All thost.· interested in playing for t)1e off-campus hockey team contact 'Lee Manfred at 277­c;c; 12, after 6 p.m. 
SOCCER -This week's schedule for the intcrhall soccer league is as follows: 
Thursday's gatnes Morrissey v. Cavanaugh, 4:30 p.m. (Stepan North) s'orin v. Carroll. 5:30 p.m. (Stepan North) Howard v. lloly Cross, 7 p.m. (Cartier) Zahm v. Keenan. H p.m. (Cartier) Dillon I v. Flanncr II, 9 p.m. (Cartier) 
Sunday's games Flanner I v. Grace I, 10 a.m. (Stepan North) l'anghorn v. Off-Campus, I a.m. (Stepan North) Stanford v. l:'isher, I0 a.m. (Cartier) Dillon II v. St. Ed's, II a.m. (Cartier)· 
• • • Soccer 
continuedfrom page 16 
crowd proves that soccer nas a bright future at Notre Dame," Hun­ter said. 
Notre Dame's two other losses came last week. The Irish travelled to Western Michigan on Saturday, Oct. 17, and outshot their opponent 27-4, only to lose by a score of 2-0. The loss was obviously a disappoint­ing one, and could hurt Notre Dame's chance for a playoff bid. 
The team·~ other loss came at the hands of Akron University, rated second only to Indiana in the Great Lakes division. The game was played at Akron last Thursday, and the Irish fell hy a score of 2-0 .• 
Notre Dame is still ranked eighth in the Great Lakes division, but their hopes for a playoff hid arc fading. ll is by no means impossible, but it won't he easy. 
CORNER KICKS -The Irish have l(JUr games remaining.....they travel to Valparaiso tomorrow and n:turn for their tlnal home game Sunday against Wright Statt: ( 2 p.m., Cartier field ) ..... tlwn it'~ hack on the road for garnl·s against Howling Green and Louisville 10 do~e out the.: season. 
first two games, then won four straight. 
"It's a helluva thing to do, beating the Yankees three straight, and we'll have our work cut out for us Tues­day," Hooton said. 
On Sunday, the Dodgers won their third straight over the Yankees at Dodger Stadium after losing the first two at New York. jerry Reuss, the loser in the first game, pitched a five-hitter, and Pedro Guerrero and Steve Yeager connected on con­secutive home runs off Ron Guidry in the seventh inning for the 2-1 vic­tory. 
In his previous start at Yankee Stadium, Hooton worked six innings and gave up one unearned run on three hits as th'e Dodgers lost 3-0. It was his third straight start with only three days' rest between each one. But for Tuesday night's game, Hooton will have rested for five days. 
"I've advocated pitching on three days' rest all along," Hooton said, "but not doing it during the season, then trying to do it in the playoffs and World Series is no easy matter. 
"I felt really good the last time out, hut there was just no zip on the ball," Hooton said. 

Yes. Only four more hours is all that stands between.you and your most exciting career opportunity. That's the amount of timf it · takes to complete the NSA Professional Qualification Test (PQT), an opportunity that comes along only once ayear. • 
But now's the time to act. Because the PQT will be given on campuses throughout the nation on November 14th. 
Successfullycompeting on this test qualifiesyou for considet'­ation by the National Security Agency. NSA is currently seeking top graduating students to meet the challenges of its important communi­cations security and foreign intelligence production missions. 
Hyou qualify on the PQT, you will be contacted regarding an interview with an NSA representative. He orshe will discuss the specific role you can play within such fields as data systems, languages, information science, communications, and management. 
So pick up aPQT bulletin atyourcollege placementoffice. Fill out the registration form and mail it by October 31st, in order to take f.• the test on November 14th. There is no registration fee. 
Graduates with a Bachelors or Masters Degree in Electronic Engineering, Computer Science 6J aSlavic, Near Eastern or Far Eastern language, may sign up forilll interview without taking the PQT. 
All NSA career positions require U.S. citizenship, a thorough background investigation, and a medical examination. 
1beNationa1SeauityAgency
More than just acareer 
The NSA Professional Qualifiaation test. Register by October 31st 1981. 
The Observer Tuesday, October 27, 1981 -page 12 

The Observer-Sports Tuesday, October 27, 1981 -page 13 
Men's football heats up 

MEN'S FOOTBALL-In thc last games played hdorc brcak, unbcaten and top-rankcd Dillon kept its n:cord perfen by beating Pangborn, 22-0. In that samc divi­sion. Morrissey ddeatcd fishcr, H-6, boosting its record to 2· I. In the last game played that night, Zahm downed Stanli>rd. 19-R 
lkre are thl· currl·nt standings: 
NORTH  CENTRAL  SOUTH  
<iran·  :HI  St. Ed's  2-0· I  Dillon  3-0  
Zahm  2·-I  (HI-Campus 2-1-0  Morrissey  2-1  
KlTnan  1-1  lloly <:ross  2-1-0 Alumni  I-I  
Hanner  I. I  Cavanaugh  1-1-I  Fisher  1-2  
Stanford  (). -~  Carroll  1-2-0 Pangborn  0-3  
Sorin  0­~­1  

Thb wn·k's schedule 
Sunday's games Stantl>rd v. Keenan, 1 p.m. (Stepan North) Hanner v. Zahm, I p.m. (Stepan South) Morrissey v. Pangborn, 2 p.m. (Stepan North) Alumni v. Fishn, 2 p.m. (Stepan South) St. Ed'~ v. Ofi~Campus, ~-p.m. (Stepan North) Holy Cross v. Sorin. 3 p.m. (Stepan South) Carroll v. Cavanaugh. -'1 p.m. (Stepan North) 
WOMEN'S FOOTBALL -In the last week of action bd(>n· break, Pasqucrilla East won big over Walsh, 28-0. Sul' lkrra, Kim Zerr, and Kathy Ndson all had intercep­tions I(Jr P-E. The Pac-East now own a 4-2 record and are in third placl' in thl' league. 
Breen-Phillips rolled to its sixth straight win by ddi:ating Lewis, 14-6. B-P remains unbeaten and in first place. 
Lyons won its t1rst game in five tries when it upended Badin, 20-0. lkre arl· thc current standings: Women's Football League 
B-P 6-0 Pasq. West 1-3 Farley 4-1 Walsh 1-4 Pasq. East 4-2 Lyons 1-4 OtT-Campus 3-2 Badin 1-4 Lewis 2-4 
• • • leers 
contimwdfrom page 16 
and Bjork suhscqeuntly scaled the 
victory with an empty-net goal with 
nine ticks left on thc dock. 
Frcshml·n Brent Chapman and Sean Rcgan provided the impetus in Saturday's tk hy each scoring a goal to bring thl· Irish back from a 3-1 ddkit. Bjork tlnishcd all the scoring when t(mnd the net only 27 seconds aftcr Ohio Stall' had taken a 4-3lcad, both goals coming in the last two minutes of play. 
A major qul·stion com:erning the strength of thl· Irish defense was adcquatdy answerl·d by the play of the bludinl-rs, as all played solid hockey despite having little overall expl·rkncl'. Davl' Laurion also per­formed up to hi~ old standards throughout the sl'rks, as he rcpl'atl·dly caml' up with big saves in crucial situations. 
It was. all in all. a good weekend 
for the lrhh a.' they now find them­
sdVl·s olf to the best start of any 
team in thl· sport's history at Notrl" 
Dame. An early season test will he 
provided this wcekctlll by Northern 
Michigan whl'n thl'y invade thl· 
ACC. The Irish will be out to estab­
lish themselves as league title con­
tl'nc.krs and to l'rasc the homl' jinx 



Sports Writer Inside ND Interhall 
This week's schedule: 
Wednesday's games Pasqerilla East v. Farley, 6:30p.m. (Cartier) Oll"-Campus v. Walsh, 7:30p.m. (Cartier) Pasqucrilla West v. Badin, 1-1:30 p.m. (Cartier) 
Sunday's games Farley v. Badin, 6:30p.m. (Cartier) Lewb v. Badin, 7:30p.m. (Cartier) Pasqucrilla East v. Lyons, 1-1:30 (Cartier) 
TENNIS -In the finals of the men's novice tourna­ment, Barry Fay defeated Pat Took. Though hampered with a broken thumb during halfofthe tournament, Fay held on to win the championship, 6-2, S-7, 6-4. 
In the men's open division, the semi-tina! pairings arc 
as l(>llows: Marshall v. Zalazny, and O'Brien v. Walcott. 
The winners of these matches will play for the cham­
pionship. 

In the women's division, Louise Demello defeated 
Sue Gordon for the championship. 
In semi-final action in the undergrad mixed doubles division, the team of Clark-Demdlo defeated Williams­Ford and will go on to play the winner of the Runger­Schmidt v. Straub-Swieciak match for the title. 
WATERPOLO -In the tlnal series, "Moby Dick" defeated the "Lust Bombs" by a score of 2-1. Because the tournament is double-elimination, the two teams must play once more to determine the champion. 
NOTICES -The football equipment exchange for men's football, normally held each week, will be by ap­pointment only this week. Call 6100 or check in at the NVA office (C-2 in the ACC). 
See INSIDE, page 11 
-
'-­

GRADUATES,
What are you graduating tol 

they sulfl'rl·d through last season. 

When commencement exercises arrive and you 
ICE CHIPS -The Obseroer will 

receive your degree you'll be graduating into a 
publish a hockl·y supplement in 

promising career. Hopefully with a company that 
Thursday's papl'r to provide all the 

will utilize your acquired knowledge and fulfill your 
inl(>rmation needed for what will 

desire for challenge and rewards. 
hopefully be an enthusiastic hockey folowing from the student body ... 

So now's the time to start measuring just what 
a company can and will offer you after graduation. 
faceofffor this weekend's games will 
H p.m. and tickets arc still available at 

That's why you must consider talking to GTE 
the ACC ticket office . 

Automatic Electric Incorporated, a recognized leader in the design, development and manufacture of advanced telecommuAication systems. 
At GTE Automatic Electric we're designing 
~Hi 'Palfg ~ tomorrow's technologies today and seek enthusiastic individuals to join in our growth as we 
enter new areas of telecommunications. 
:• aJUL Rufklf:• 
Swilr:hing • Tll•pbol•
lijii Products

: -U6 : 
Electrical Engineering graduates seeking 
··­

careers in this exciting new area of development are invited to investigate GTE Automatic Electric's commitment to a future of innovative growth and development. For further information regarding professional opportunities, see our recruiter when he visits your campus or send your resume. Graduate to the best. Graduate to GTE Automatic Electric. 
Manager, Employee and College Relations GTE AUTOMATIC ELECTRIC 400 No. Wolf Road • Northlake, IL 60164 
Our Recruiter Will Be On Campus October 30th, 1981. 
Equal Opportunity Employer M IFI H IV 
-

The Observer -Sports Tuesday, Oct_ober 27, 1981 -page 14 
Robinson compliments Irish 

By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

Like most Notre Dame-Southern Cal clashes, Saturday's game ranks as another in the long list ofclassics be­tween the inter-sectional rivals. 
"It was a great game," noted USC linebacker Chip Banks. "There is no othergame like it It's simply one ofa kind. Our coaches really get into it because it is so special. It's certainly a bigger game than UCLA because there is so much tradition involved." 
Tradition and emotion again had a big hand in the caliber of competi­tion. Though . the fifth-ranked Trojans broug!!t a 5-l ledger to town, both squads knew the records wouldn't mean a thing on the field. 
"I told our players all week that this game was like a heavyweight championship fight that might not be decided until the 12th or 13th round," predicted USC coach john Robinson. "And that's just what hap­pened." 
"We knew we had to play every play,"offered linebacker Neil Hope, "and that there wouldn't be a big dif­ference until late in the game. It's like a street fight, and the more 
..... -' 


physical team won out." 
But tailback Marcus Allen thinks the Irish are pretty physical them­selves. "Looks can be very deceiv­ing," he said after the game. "I may look fine now, but I'm pretty bruised up and I'm hurting. NO-USC is one of the most physical and intense games in football, and this was no excep­tion. We were fortunate to come out on top; the yards came really tough." 
Yards were hard to come by for Allen. He came into the game averaging 2 I 5 yards an outing, but the Irish held him to a season-low 14 7 yards.' But passing yardage came even tougher to quarterback John Mazur. 
"Notre Dame's secondary gave him very little," agreed Robinson. "We've raised John to be very selective and cautious, though, and he did a fine job ofleading the team." 
"I had a sore thumb all week," ex­plained the sophomore, 7-14 for 46 yards, "and it acted up in the cold weather. I was a little afraid to throw the ball." 
Robinson insisted his players are 
never afraid of Notre Dame's crowd 
-"They're just thrilled to be 
playing here," -but the fans really picked on two particular Trojans. 
"The crowd booed Joey and evcrytime our names came over the speakers," said safety Keith Browner. "I guess they don't like us because we don't play here like Jim and Ross did. We talk about it a lot at home, and jim and Ross have always said they were 100 percent behind us." 
Notre Dame, trailing 14-7, looked like they weren't going to stay be­hind very long when freshman Joe Howard reeled off a 56-yard kickoff return following USC's last score. But Browner was there to m;rkc the big play. "It was a great return. I knew I was the last guy back there, and I tried to get the ball out of his hands, but he held on tight." 
"They have very capable backs, and they all hold onto the ball," agreed linebacker Hope. "Phil Car­ter impressed me. I've never played against a quicker player." 
Robinson was very impressed with Gerry Faust "Things aren't going very well for him right now, but he'll get it turned around. There was something about the look in his eye after the game that impressed the hell out of me." 
• • • Violation 
continuedfrom page 16 
there will be no official inquiry. Col. jack Stephens, Associate Athletic Director, said that because of the newspaper reports and apparent concern, Notre Dame will, in a sense, report itself. A written report will be filed today with the NCAA explaining exactly what happened. 
Surely the whole matter will blow over quickly. The NCAA infractions committee will discuss it at its November meeting, and that will be that. But for the real Irish-haters, there's nothing like dragging Notre Dame and anyone associated with it, though the mud at every possible opportunity. 
Remember the last two times Notre Dame was singled out by the NCAA? Basketball walk-on Marc Kel­ly was forced to return the money he received for appearing in the movie 
Fast Break. You sec, that money classified Kelly <J.S a "professional." 
The same year, the NCAA an­nounced that any varsity basketball player participating in Bookstore Basketball would have his eligibility terminated. Participation was deemed "extra practice," another regulatory no no. 
Meanwhile, recruits at some other schools arc driving Trans Ams and holding down lucrative summer jobs, and their parents appreciate the blocks of season tickets and under-the-table money. 
Fortunately for his sanity, Faust is able to take all this in stride during an emotionally difficult season. Whereas losing is something quite new to him, life under a microscope is not "We had the same problem at Moeller," he said. "When your program's successful, there are going to be people watching every move you make. They take the 
things you do and twist them in a negative way. Some people will even make things up that just aren't true." 
THE EXPERIENCE 
OFA 
LIFETIME. 
Now that you've got it, put it to work_ Share it with poor people in Peace Corps nations who need your experi­ence in teaching, electronics, farming, engineering, family skills and many other areas. Volunteering your skills can help make a difference in their education, economic development or health_ It'S an experience no one can afford to miss. 
Register now at Placement Bureau or: LeMans Hall/St. Mary's for interviews 
Thur. & Fn. Nov. 12 & 13 












OThe=Observer­
~c:}c:llC3L~~==========================T=u~e=s=da=y=,=O=c=to=b=e=r=2=7=,1=9=8=1===p=a=ge==15~
Molarity 
aunt1 Docile 49 Transported5 Relating to 52 Moslemthe cheek Malay10 Vehicles 53 Doctrine14 Partly open 56 Ignores15 Morini or 60 GrammarJong no-no16 Farm unit 
61 Small17 Receive a openingshard blow 62 Imperfec­20 Chopping tiontool 63 Cheerful21 Enjoy 64 PlayingOld Sol cards22 Metal or 65 Sea bird
music 23 Valley 24 Kismet 26 Presides at DOWNa meeting 

29 Money in 1 Parting 
Milan word 30 Boring tool 2 Greek hero 33 Simpletons 3 Construct 34 Strike back 4 Before 35 Court 5 Mining 36 Pays sudden products 
attention 6 Had origin 40 Blunder 7 Connection 41 Pries 8 Do stage 42 Increase work 43 Color 9 Arena cheer 44 Pitcher 10 Hidden 45 Equine gait supplies
©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved
•...........
_.....,.~_.. 

•
•
•
•
•
•••••••:-'!'~E.:~ 
12 French 51 Large 
cheese containers 13 Dispatched 52 Nothing 18 Building else than 
beam 53 -of Man 19 Possessions 54 Excel 
23 Record 24 Decrees 25 Curved 
structure 26 Dealt (with) 27 Keep 
troubling 28 Burning 29 Father 
Damian's 
concern 30 Be ready 31 Sickroom 
report 32 Also-ran 34 Stratagems 37 Does bakery 
work 38 Planted 39 Sea eagle 45 Fondle 46 Chinese 
island 47 Grableor 
Ford 48 Saunter 49 Mighty 
monarch 

55 Cut, as the lawn 
57 Make a choice 
58 Negative 
59 Salamander 
Campus 
•all 
day -laser photo and crystal prism sale, Lafortune student center. 

•12: 
15 p.m. -lecture, "chromosomal evolution and specialization in hawaiian drosophila", dr. j. s. yoon, bowling green state university, galvin auditori'Jm, sponsored by biology department. 

•3:30 
p.m. -colloquium, professor stephen w. hawking, cambridge university, mathematics department, llH nieuwland science hall, sponsored by mathematics department. 

•4:30 
p.m. colloquium. "role of heterochromatin in chromosomal mutation and evolution", dr. j. s. yoon, bowling green state uni­versity, sponsored by biology department. 

•7. 
9:15, 11:30 p.m. -film, "mr. smith goes to washington", engineering auditorium, sponsored by student union, Sl. 

•8 
p.m. -lecture, "the limits of space and time", professor stephen w. hawking, cambridge univer­sity, memorial library, sponsored by provost's lecture series. 

•H: 
15 p.m. -recital, france's duo vox nova, baritone-chanter illo humphrey, organist claudine pascal, sacred heart church, sponsored by univer­sity artist series, liZ. 


7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9:00 (..m. 
Television Tonight 
16 MASH 
22 . CBS News 28 joker's Wild 34 MacNeil/Lehrer Report 46 It's Your Business 16 Pinocchio 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 46 God's News Behind the News 22 Bugs Bunny's Howl-o-ween ­28 World Series Game 6 34 Cosmos 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 22 Fat Albert's Halloween 46 Dwight Thompson 
16  All in the Family  
22  CBS  Movie:"The  Princess  and  the  
Cabbie"  
34  Odyssey  

46 Today with Lester Sumerall 
10:00p.m.  16  Marriage is Alive and Well  
34  The Duchess of Dukl' Street  
46  Good News  
10:30p._n.  46  Mkhiana Today  
ll:OOp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch lH  
34  THe Dick Cavett Show  
46  Praise the Lord  
11:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Alice/McCloud  
28  ABC News Nightline  
34  Captioned ABC News  
12:00p.m.  28  Fantasy Island  
12:30 p.m.  16  Tomorrow Coast to Coast  

Today in History 
Today's highlight in history: 
In 1978, Egyptian President Anwar Sadat and Is­raeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. 
On this date: In 1651, Limerick, Ireland, surrendered to the British o.fter a lengthy siege. In 1806, France's Napoleon Bonaparte occupied Berlin. 
In 1966, the U.N. General Assembly proclaimed the ter'llination of South Africa's mandate over South-West Africa. 
And in 1973, a U.N. peace-keeping force arrived in Cairo to attempt to set up a lasting cease-fire between Israeli and Arab forces. 

l •
·············································~·················· 
The JAMBOREE is coming November 20 to Stepan Center: •
A night of Music and Merrimer .... featuring •
• 

The OZARK MOUNTAIN DAREDEVILS : 
.With JOHN BAYLEY (Reggae) and BUCK STOVE AND RANGE CO. (Bluegrassfe 
Tickets go on sale Thursday, Oct. 28 in the S.U. Ticket Office. The price? ••• ultry $5 until Nov. 6 ; then it is $6 . ANOTHRR STUDENT UNION 
PRODUCTION 

-
--------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
,-------------~­
Tuesday, October 27, 1981 -page 16
,Sports 
Irish are optimisticafter loss to USC 
By KELLY SULLIVAN Notre Dame's lone score. "The line -;, Sports Writer did a tremendous job of corning off the ball," Faust acknowledged. 
"Every game with Notre Dame is a "They're starting to gel." fight," said USC fullback Todd Spen­•rejoining Carter in the backfield, cer. "Eventually one team will fall. quarterback Blair Kiel benefitted We knew when we were going in from the line's efforts, going 12-23 that it was going to be a war." for 11 5 yards and becoming the first 
A war made up of numerous signal caller to play the entire game battles. Notre Dame carne out on top "this season. "It made me feel a lot after most ofthose bouts, winning al­better to go out and be able to set my most every statistic -rushing, pas­own tempo," said the sophomore. sing, time of possesion, first downs, "It helped my confidence all the way and Phil Carter even won the battle around. I knew I was going to play of the tailbacks. the whole game." 
But when the struggle was over, •back at split end, Tony Hunter the Irish had lost the war, and the snared 5 tosses for 76 yards, his best Trojan player most responsible was day in a long while, and the offense not Heisrnan-bound Marcus Allen, threw a balanced attack USC's way. who was held to "just" I47 yards "They had a great mixture of plays," and one touchdown. It was the complimented Robinson. "They touchdown by Spencer, who had called the right things strategically tallied only 48 yards all season prior against the type ofdefense we run." to Saturday's contest, that broke The Irish defense countered with Notre Dame's back late in the fourth an equally encouraging perfor­quarter. mance (Allen had just 58 yards at the 
"When a defense keys on Allen, half), allowing Trojan quarterback you've got to go to someone else," John Mazur only 46 yards in the air. USC coach Robinson explained. "Their defense is among the tops "We always knew Todd was a good we've faced," he admitted. "They 
Fast start 
runner. He broke through .to the pretty much stopped us on key secondary, and the tailback in him plays." came out." Defesive line coach Bill Meyers 
"We only give him the ball about thinks the offense deserves much of 

Notre Dame opens league play 
once a month," he quipped, "so he's the credit for the way his front four already got this month's quota." played. "Our offense did a great job "I was extremely proud ofthe way percent of their power-play oppor­
Spencer's 26-yard gallop never controlling the football; when they By MICHAEL OLENIK our squad battled back. We faced a tunities while shutting the door on
should have happened, according to control the football, they make it Sports Writer 
great deal of adversity over the Ohio State 9I percent of the time in

linebacker Bob Crable, who felt the easy on us. We didn't have to spend weekend, and we responded to the man-short situations.
play corning and issued a warning. so much time on the field, and we Notre Dame's hockey team pressure as I hoped we would. Individual standout performances"The last thing I said in the huddle didn't get tired, so we were able to enjoyed a succssful Central Col­were turned in by Perry and Bjork,
was 'Watch the fullback on the trap.' come back and knock the hell out of legiate Hockey Association debut Naturally, we would have liked to -sweep the series, but any time you who scored two and three goals
With the defense we were in he them." this past weekend by notching a vic­can go on the road in this league and respectively to lead the Irish on
shouldn't have gotten an inch." Crable led the assault with I 5 tory and a tie against Ohio State in pick up three points, you've done a their come-back trail~ It was defcn­
The inch, the yards, the score got tackles, and he had strong support Columbus. Irish coach Lefty Smith good job." scman John Schmidt, however, whoUSC the win but the Irish picked up from Joe Rudzi_nski's lO stops. Up saw his squad pull offa series ofcom­put in the game-winner Friday night
some solace even in defeat as Gerry front, the Irish did a good job of ebacks in both games to secure Especially impressive was the play of the Irish specialty teams, as the when he beat Buckeye goalie John
Faust's team played it's best ball of stringing out the USC rush. Tim Mar­three points and a fourth-place posi­power-play units and penalty-killing Dougan with only 2: I 7 remaining,
the season. shall and Kevin Griffith were in quar­tion in the league standings, just one squads both executed with high ef­
"Our players really came of age terback Mazur's face all afternoon. point behind Michigan, Michigan St. 
See ICERS, page 13ficiency. The Irish connected on 41

today," he agreed. "They played like End jon Autry dropped a Trojan for a and next week's opponent Northern we've wanted them to play all year." loss on three occcasions. Michigan. 
Notx"e Dame's "corning of age" "Rather than worrying about Al­Led by wingersJeff Perry and Kirt perhaps can be credited to an of­len so much, we worried more Bjork, the Notre Dame offense fense that returned to its old form about their offensive line." said played consistently aggressive hock­
Hunter satisfied

for a number of reasons: Crable. "We were just planning on ey hy recording scores of7-5 and 4­
•a healthy guard Randy Ellis and beating them up front, you know, 4, rebounding in both games from consistent play from the entire of­beating them to the crack -and we two goal deficits. Smith was ap­fensive line allowed Phil Carter to did it a lot ofthe time." propriately pleased with his team's 
despite recent loss 

regain his all-America look, as he performance, as he showed after tht See USC, page 10
totaled I61 yards and accounted for game. By RICK KRIST powerful Hoosier attack for more Sports Writer than 66 minutes. They were ag­gressive and covered their men The Notre Dame soccer team saw closely, getting rid of the ball when its record drop to 14-3-2 as it lost a they had to. One could even see a hard-fought battle to the number­hint of frustration on some of the one ranked Indiana Hoosiers Sun­Hoosiers' faces as the Irish defense
The watchfuleyes
I 
I day. The game was exciting and clamped down. aggressive, and the Hoosiers carne The teams played scoreless soc­Oh, the trials and tribulations ofbeing the most loved 
out on top, 2-0. Despite the loss, cer until the 66:42 mark when I and most hated school in the world! And now the NO­coach Rich Hunter and his players Hoosier Pat McGauley scored on a haters are trying their best to drag Gerry Faust down the were not disappointed with their low shot into the corner of the net. ~ tubes. performance. The ball was just out of reach for The rookie football coach barely had time to reflect "I was pleased with the way we Irish goalkeeper John Milligan, who on his team's fourth loss but best performance of the played," comments Hunter. turned in a fine game in the nets. season, when The Cincinnati Enquirer reported that "Indiana is simply a berter team than McGauley, like Betancourt, is con­
~
' 
Faust may have committed an NCAA recruiting viola­we are, and I feel that even though sidered a premiere forward in the tion when he talked to the Moeller Crusaders before the game to me," Faust said yesterday ofhis locker room we lost, we played up to our poten-NCAA. their 37-3 win over league rival St. Xavier. Gimrne a visit. "I told them I loved Notre Dame, that I wa!> was .tial. Any time you play at your best, Less than four minutes later, 
' 
break! proud of Moeller, I wished them the best of luck and you have to he satisfied." Betancourt finally broke through for 
While most '\lotre Dame student:.. were heading told them to play well. The first half ended in a scoreless a goal on a rebound in front of the horne October i 6, Faust also was going home in a sense. "I don't see that being any different than speaking at tic and the Irish were only outshot net. The score came at the 70:1 l "I just took my family to Cincinnati to watch the game," banquets." he added. by three, 11-H. Notre Dame did well mark and gave Indiana a 2-0 lead. he said yesterday. "This wa.~ my former team, and l was Two of Notre Dame's major competitor~ in the in containing the Hoosiers, namely Basically, the Notre Dame game very close to them." market for Moeller players were calling the charges ab­t\Jrward Armando Betancourt. who plan was to contain the Hoosiers by 
Early• that evening, Ted Bacigalupo, Faust's successor surd. "It's ridiculous to raise: questions about a thing like is considered by many the best marking their men closely. "We at Moeller, informed him that the players were dedicat­that," said Don Canham, athletic director at Michigan. player in the NCAA right now. played a more defensive game than ing that night's game to the long time Moeller mentor. "lt'1> silly." Betancourt was constantly usual," explains Hunter. "Playing "He asked me to come talk to the kids before the game," "I could care less if he speaks to the team," said Uni­hounded by Notre Dame defcn­against a team like Indiana, we had to Faust said. "What am I supposed to 'do when they want versity of Cincinnati Coach Mike Gottfried. "I have no sernan and co-captain Jim Stein. change our game plan. Indiana is just to dedicat<:; the game to me?" problems with that." Stein was assigned to cover the star too good a team to play on an even 
So Faust addressed the team and made a point not to Yet there's always some joker in every crowd who forward in hopes of keeping him off level. We worked on marking men in talk to any individual players. "Going into a locker room feels compelled to make a fuss over nothing. Apparently the scoreboard. Stein played a tough practice and our first concern was in is not an NCAA violation," said Hale McMenamin, assis­charges were brought to the NCAA by Ohio State about aggressive game and did a fine job in containing their attack.'' 
tant ;director of the NCAA's enforcement division. "But Faust's alleged recruiting violation. containing Betancourt. The crowd for the game was im­doing that would probably be a contact with an ath­Although the NCAA cannot divuldge whether or not "I think Jim Stein played the best pressive. It was by far the largest lete.'' Recruiting rules for this point in the season it is investigating the matter, Notre Dame Sports In­game of his four-year career here," crowd ever to see a Notre Dame soc­prohibit college coaches, no matter who they are, from formation Director Roger Valdiserri indicated that praises Hunter. cer game at home. "The size of the contacting high school players. The entire Notre Dame defense 
See VIOLATION, page 14
"I just thanked them for inviting me in and dedicating did an excellent job in stopping the See SOCCER, page 11 












