.Bengals -page6 

VOL. XV, NO. I 07 an independent studem newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, MARCH 9, 1981 
Dean Rice Margaret Atwood outlines 
closes Lit Festival 

discipline 
By BILL LESTITIAN serious and the light sides of male­News Staff female relationships in "True
Kathleen M. Rice. dean ofstudent 
Romances."
affairs at Saint Mary's, u•as inter· 
Canadian poet and author Mar­Miss Atwood addressed tht· sub­
l'it•u•ed recent~)' by Observer repor­
garet Atwood commented, "As time ject of torturt· in "Notes Toward A
ter Connie Coo 
goes on, I find I have to make up less Poem That Can Never Be Written." and less, although it seems like I She described the physical torment make up more and more." and mental anguish which a tortured Miss Atwood, who bases her person endures. A member of Am· 
writings on actual events, addressed nesty International, Miss Atwood a capacity crowd in the Memorial stressed that torture and oppression Library Auditorium on Saturday, the appear widespread in the world but final day of the Sophomore Literary that "the American people fail to 
Festival. realize this." The poet/writer read a selection 
Describing herself as an optimist,

Kathleen Rice from Bodily Harm, a book which 
Miss Atwood con-eluded hershe finished writing last week. In this presentation by reading severalselection, Miss Atwood used bold lighter poems including "Variations 

Q: flow long have you been dean language in stating her disapproval On The Word Love" and "Variations
ofstudents, and what is the role of ofpornography. 
On The Word Sleep."

the dean at Saint Mary's? Miss Atwood also read several 
A: My title really isn't dean of stu­selections from Two-Headed Poems When asked to describe her self­dents, it's dean of student affairs. I a work published in February. She image, she responded, "People came to Saint Mary's in August of focused on love in "The Woman project upon me their image ofwhat 11.)76, so this is my fifth year. Dean of Directfrom the Keenan Review, the band "Waiting for Now" put Who Could Not Live With Her a poet should be. It bothers them Student Affairs is a senior office posi­on a phenomenal performance In their spot during the Saturday Faulty Love" and on the brother­that I am not eccentric and they 
tion so that I report directly to the night show at the Nazz for its competion winners. (photo byjohn hood of man in "All Bread." Miss At­think up descriptions of me that president. There arc eight different Macor) wood also examined both the make me poetical." dt·partments and each department 
has a director. I am in charge of the 

Murderer executed
division ol student affairs. I have a very broad job and of course dis­cipline does fall into the area of stu­dent affairs. 

Judy,s crimes: ~a cryfor help,
Q: All the eight dt:partments are In the division of student affairs. If/bat do tbese departments pertain 

By LINDEL HUTSON being "built like Dick the Bruiser." 
to In uspect ofstudent ajfairs? 

Associated Press Writer He was a brawler, Judy said of his father. He carried a knife and was veryA: This all pertains to the cxtra­proud ofhis many scars and used to talk about how tough he was. Ills mother 
currkular lift· of the student. We 

A blinding snowstorm blotted the landscape the day Steven T. Judy had disappeared.
know that a lot of educational op­arrived at rhc century-old Indiana State Prison -a"hell hole," he called it, a Society failed Steven Judy, says Mrs. Carr. "Our system helped nurture portunities exist outside ofthe class· place where he didn't "want to spend the rest of my life." this, helped turn him into a murderer," she says. "You know a 12-year-old room. Most of student life exists 

On that cold February day, Judy believed he had arrived home for life. boy who attacks a woman needs help . " 
outside of the dassroom. Our main Although he asked to die, he never thought he would be executed for the About 6 a.m. on the morning of April 28, 11.)71.), Terry Lee Chasteen, purpose as a division is to support murders ofa young Indianapolis woman ami her three children, ages 2, 4 and described by a friend as "very beautiful," about 5-feet· 7, with long blondethe a<:ademic enterprise, nurture 5. hair, was driving her three youngsters to an aunt's home before reporting tothe spiritual development oftht· stu· "People don't want it," Judy said of the death sentence. "They cry for it, her job at Marsh Supermarket on Lafayette Road. 

dmts and to facilitate the growth of but later they don't want it. People are so divided on it they can't come to an She had a flat tire on Interstate 465 on the west side of Indianapolis. Thethe students in all areas for life. We agreement." car trouble forced her onto the shoulderofthe southbound lane ofl-465 justdo that through the programs Judy, 24, a misfit by his own admis­
north of the J.70 westbound exit. Her red 11.)78 Ford Granada was found<:ampus ministry offer. We learn a lot sion who has been in and out of jails abandoned there later with a flat tire in the trunk.

from students and hope vice-versa. A since the age of I3, was wrong. Police theorized that someone stopped to help her changt· the tire and lot nf Stll(lt-nts view the dean of stu· He was executed in Indiana's aging, possibly tampered with the Lar to make il iuopcrativc. J'hc motorist then dent affairs primarily as judicial

a straight-backed electric chair-made offered Mrs. Chasteen and the children a ride. 
board and don't realize there are all of wood salvaged from the gallows -at 12:12 CST this morning. 

SeeJUDY, page 3thcst.· otht.·r departments included. 

All attempts to halt it appeared futile without Judy's help, and he has We sec our roles as educators. One refused to provide it. "What's the usc of spending the rest of your life in of our main institutional goals is to prison?" he said. 
prepart.· young wo'men to meet the Asked what he would miss most in prison, Judy laughingly responded, 




Pulitzer winnerHecht
realities of contemporary life. Our 
uwomen." 
division is based 'on principles of Women have been the subject of his most violent attacks. He testified good decision mak,ing. 
during his murder trial that he was arrested for accosting girls at In­
Q: The administration takes dis­

presents monologue
dianapolis' Manual High School. 
cipllnury m·tion against students 
He said he has committed "12 to 15" rapes because he couldn't control 
ltrling on-campu.9 who break the 
himself. 
By DAVID RICKABAUGH storm in the city and war in Viet
rules. If/hut abou~ those living off· 
Carol Emig testified that in 11.)70 Judy, who was 12 years old, raped her, 
SeniorStaffReporter Nam.
campus who break the rules? 
stabbed her more than 18 times, then struck her four times in the head with a Hecht, a native of New York City, A: Off-campus students are hatchet. During that testimony, Judy asked to leave the room and one juror Pulitzer-prize winning poet obtained masters
dtizt.·ns ofthe cityofSouth Bend and An­his degree at 
became ill. The jury was excused for about 20 minutes. 
thony Hecht read various selections Columbia University in 1950. Thecertainly have to ~bide by the rules As a consequence of that attack, Mrs. Emig underwent brain surgery and of his work in the Memorial Library poet began teaching in 1947 atoftht· city, and the rt.gulations ofthe open-heart surgery for a stab wound in the heart. She lost a finger when Auditorum on Saturday, the last day Kenyon College in Ohio. fie even·apartment complic:x in which they struck with the ax. She suffered loss of memory and had to take lessons to of the Sophomore Literary Festival. tually settled at the University oflive. lfthe city rules arc violated, the relearn how to talk. 
Hecht's selections ranged from Rochester a~ the John li. Deaneoff-campus students have te face the For the Emig attack, Judy was confined at age 13 to Central State Peniten­dramatic monologues to light Professor of Poetry and Rhetoricjustice system ofthe city. 
tury for l'hree years. Within two years, he was treated and released on parodies. Hecht's published colkctions of
Q: As an approximation, about 
"convalescent leave" to the custody ofRobert and Mary Carr, whom hospital The dramatic monologue poems include: Summoning of
how often do yo'u have to deal with 
officials described as good foster parents. "Transparent Man" revealed the 
Stones ( 1954 ), The Ser•en Deml~ystudents who brreak the rules? 
Judy was then 16. He was released from Central State despite a recom­reflections of a man dying from Sins ( 11.)58), Struwwelpter Verse: A A: I personally do not' deal with mendation that he be sent to a juvenile prison. 
leukemia. Poem ( 1957), Millions of Strange
students. The Uc:partment deals with Authorities argued over which institution should keep him, said Carol The poet also told a humorous Sbadows ( 1977) and The Venetiantht·st.• students1through the judicial Hill, a staff member at Central State. "You have a lot of, 'It's not my respon­talc of a man applying for a grant Vespers ( 1979).
systt·m. We have three judicial sibility, give it to someone else.' Yes, I guess we were guilty ofthat, also. 
from the Guggenheim Foundation in Hecht rccievcd the 1968 Pulitzerboards on campus which deal with "During the time we spent together, he began to have some insight into the poem "Application for a Grant." Prize for his book of verse The liardthese students, because we feel that why he was hostile towards females," said Hill. "Had he been able to con­In the poem "The Odds," llecht /lours.
the rights of dut· process arc tinue with some kind ofintensive therapy, we might have been able to work related the story of his son's birth in In addition to his recognition a~ a
protected if we go through due it through." 
a Rochester hospital. He contrasted poet, Hecht is known ao; a translator process procedures. We have 
a Judy's own parents had abandoned him. His father, an escapee from the the peacefulness of the birth with and co-editor of jiggery-Pokery: A wry institution where Judy is scheduled to die, was described by Judv as
See Q & A, page4 the chaos in the world -a snow Compendium ofDouble Ducty ties. 

·~---·---------~------­

News Brie/§ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
A hijacked Pakistani jetliner with more than 100 hostages aboard departed Kabul, Mghanistan for an unknown des­tination last night, according to a Pakistani spokesman who said the departure waS reported on state-run television in Kabul. The Soviet news agency Tass, in a dispatch from the Mghan capital, issued a similar report. At least three American citizens and two permanent 
U.S. residents are among the 112 hostages who had been held on the hijacked plane in Kabul since Monday. Pakistani authorities were attempting to establish radio contact with the Boeing 720 to determine where it is headed, said spokesman Javed Akhtar. Hours before the departure, Pakistan's Defense Secretary-General, Maj. Gen. Ramim Khan, said that his government did not want authorites of the Soviet-backed Afghan government to permit the plane to leave. -AP 
President Reagan is proposing major curbs 
on the federal government's role as a low-interest money lender, a move that will mean fewer subsidized loans for home-buyers, farmers, students, small businesses and dozens ofother types ofborrowers. As part of an overall plan to pare back government activity in the economy, the administration said it wants to reduce new loans and loan guarantees through 1982 by 11 percent, or nearly $35 billion, from the levels anticipated by former PresidentJimmy Carter. Among the programs that would be affected are the Federal Housing Ad­ministration, which insures home mortgates; student loan programs; the Rural Electrification Administration; Farmers Home Administra­tion; farm commodity loans; Veterans Administration; Small Business Administration and the Export-Import Bank. Cuts also would be made in lending for foreign military sales, energy development, rural housing, consumer cooperatives, housing rehabilitation, economic development, veterans, the District of Columbia, aircraft purchase, merchant shipbuilding and credit unions. -AP 
The Colombian military has arrested more than 50 people in its hunt for the guerrillas who kidnapped and killed American linguist Chester A. Bitterman 3rd, an army source said yes­terday. Additional arrests were expected, said the source, who asked not to be identified. Bitterman's body was flown to the remote outpost of lorna Linda for burial on Saturday. His wife and two young daughters also went to the windswept village on Colombia's rolling plains -about 300 miles southeast of Bogota -which serves as the field headquarters of the Summer Institute of Linguistics, Bitterman's employer. Guerrillas shot Bitterman through the heart Saturday morn­ing, 47 days after they had kidnapped him and accused him ofbeing a CIA agent. The guerrillas had charged that the Bible-translating in­stitute was a front for the CIA. It demanded that the institute leave the country. But the institute refused, and Sunday, the Colombian govern­ment backed up that refusal. The institute's contract with the Colom­bian government says it can stay in this country through 1995. -AP 
A $6.5 million extortion demand emptied the 
Caesars Boardwalk Regency casino hotel of some 2,000 guests and employees yesterday, but a noon detonation deadline passed without the threatened explosion. No money was paid. New Jersey State police ordered the fully-booked 504-room hotel cleared for 2 1/2 hours -the first evacuation ever of an Atlantic City casino hotel ­after a would-be extortionist's letters threatened to blow up the $138 million facility. Some 1,200 employees and 750 overnight guests were quietly asked to leave, and hundreds of morning gamblers were denied access to gaming tables and slot machines, as tight-lipped FBI agents, state troopers and policemen waited for the deadline to pass. Police also rousted several sholkeepers and scores of homeowners 

within a block of the casino ho•  No bombs were found, no ransom  
was paid and Caesars' casino an  tote! operations returned to normal  
by 12:30 p.m., officials said. Sta:  police and Caesars officials refused  

to disc JSS the threat, one of n: my received by Atlantic City and Nevada casino hotels. -AP 
With threatenecl industrial strikes two days 

away, Polish workers joined th l' •ands ofstudents at the University of Warsaw yesterday to commenc 'ate riots that began there 13 years ago. The common front was ins trk contra t to the 1968 demonstra­tions, when police recruited \/( ·kers to h :I >quell month-long stu­dent disturbances that broke ( tJt March f. A spokesman for the independem labor federation ~o idarity, ne mwhile, speculated uni­on leader Lech Walesa would meet wirn Premier Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski Monday. The report could ne-t .Je confirmed. If it takes place, the meeting would be the first be.\\ .::en the two leaders since Jaruzelski became premier in early Febr Ja y. -AP 
Cloudy and cooltoda1. lt~gh in the-mid 3os to about 4o. Partial clearing and cold tonight. J.o'" in the low and mid 20s. Partly cloudy and cool tomorrow. High .n .he upper 30s and low 40s. -AP 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

The Observer is ar. i 1dependent newspaper published by the students of the Editorials Editor.................................Michael Onufrak University of Notre 'J?.ne duLac and Saint Mary's Collese. It does nor necessarily Senior Copy Editor........................Macy Fran Callahan reflect the policies uf the administration of either institution. The news is reported Executive News Editor............................Tom jackman as accurately anc' a, objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a News Editor ........................ -......................Lynne Daley majority of the ,....:.~:rorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views 
SMC Executive Editor .............................Margie Brassll SMC News Editor.........................................Mary Leavitt 
of their autho•.s. ..=olumn space is available to all members of the commumry, and 
Sports Edttor.............................................. Beth Huffman
rhe free exp·e· .;ion of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged . 
• 
.' 
Monday, March 9, 1981-page 2 

Life is a game 
What are these people doing! All around me, diamonds are flashing and wedding bells are clanging. One by one, friends are !taking The Vow, sentencing them to life in marriage. Ne:xt week it's Nick andJeanne. Ellen and Mike were marric~d a month ago and Steve and Velora walked up the aisle a month before that. Lisa and Henry will tie the knot next Christmas; Nora and Peter were married last Christmas. And any day now Tim and Jane will be setting a dat•e. The list of has-beens and soon-to-be's goes on and on. Oh, to be condemned so soon and so young! 
As Mark Slagmeyer observed to Mike Doonesbury: "My heart goes out to those poor kids. Especially her! Condemned prematurely to a careerless life, filled with domestic doldrums, screaming babes, and spotted milk glasses!" "And think of him!" Mike replied, "he'll never know the joys ofbeing a free spirit, his own man, never get the chance to do the wild and crazy things we're into now." "Right! It's jus1t too late for both of them," ended Mark. 
While many senior classmates are preparing for this nuptial bliss, just as many of us are preparing to tackle life singly. Living on one's own: the dream of indepen­dence -working all day to return to a one bedroom apartment and pop a Stouf­fer's TV dinner into the kitchenette oven. Then you 
with animals, play with stars, 

can decide if you want to 
and play with people. You 

watch TV or read one cif 
have to go see Florida,

those novels you never h~1d 
rivers, Europe, the moun­

time to read before. If you 
tains and even Iowa." 

feel like it, you can always 
In college, you study. You 

stop in at the nearest bar for 
learn from books for four 

a drink, or take in a movie. 
years about knowledge and 

Then, go to bed early or stay 
ideas. Much gets lost, some 

up to watch the late oldie­
remains. At first college

but-goodie movie on your 
seemed like an endless time­

10-lnch portable TV. Your 
schedule of classes in the 

friends are in New York, At­
day, studying at night and 

lanta, San Francisco or Den­
partying on the weekends.

REA\_
ver, but that's okay, you'll 
Youhad to learn what was in 

write them and keep In 
WORL'D 
those books ­
r~· that's what 

touch. Not today. Tomor­row. Well, definitely a Christmas card. 
You're single, young and carefree. All you have to worry about is next month's rent, electricity, water and telephone bills; and don't forget VISA, Mastercharge and).C. Penny. For fun and entertainment you can go to the singles' bars, the local corner bars, or the theatre­restaurant bars, where you can always find people. lots and lots ofpeople who are doing the same thing you're doing -drinking and watching. 
No wonder so many students opt for grad-school. Maybe it only delays the inevitable -but at least it is a delay! 
Married or single, we'll keep comingback -on those football and basketball weekends -to hang out for a bit ofreminiscing at Senior Bar. That's always good for the soul, giving you a sense ofsecurity and mailing at least a weekend or two a bit more interesting. Not to mention that your friends, who are all over the country, will usually make an appearance, so you know you're not completely alone. ' 
"Life is a game," a friend told me recently. We were discussing that terrifying, yet intriguing, issue -Life ­
The_Ohs.ery_er_. 
Design Editor...................... Maura Murphy Design Assistants ................ Monica Gugle 
Tim Neely Layout Staff............................... Klm Parent Typesetter..: ............................ Bruce Oakley News Editor.............................. Lynne Daley· Copy Editor..................... Dave Rickabaugh Sports Copy Editor ................... Dave Irwin Systems Control..................... Marty Hynes Ad Design ............................. Woody & Fran Photograpber ............................ )ohn Macor 

APPLICATIONS for Bartenders at Senior Bar 
Available in Student Activities Office ( 1st Floor LaFortune) 
DUE MONDAY MARCH 9 by 5:00pm 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-iri-Cblef.........................................Paul Mullaney Managing Edttor.............................................Mack Rust 

while walking along the river. It was late afternoon­early evening, and as the first stars began to appear across the shadow ofthe universe, I told John that I had always wanted to learn about the stars. "But not in a classroom, I want to learn from them," I tried to explain. John clarified my thoughts for me. "You want to know them," he said, "not study them." 
To us it was a big difference, we wanted to know flowers, stars, wild animals, cities, mountains, oceans and people -not just study about them. Even in the jobs we dreamed of holding one day, we didn't want to have to work at them, we wanted to work them, to en­joythem. 
"The difference is between living, and working for a 
living," said John. "You have 
to play with flowers, play 
you paid $6000 a year for. 
But after the first year, you 
got wiser. You learned to 
play with ideas, bouncing them around in papers and off your friends, who bounced the ideas back again. Then slowly, life changed, and you found what made each day different and some even special -the friends; the places you could retreat to, or the places you want to bring other people to see. 
And the people -who really make life a trip -were from all sorts ofplaces and backgrounds. People who sit in a stairwell until late at night singing and playing their guitars. The guys who kept a duck they called Donald in their room, threatening to eat it for Thanksgiving. A girl who sang "Cottleston Pie" and read Newsweek instead ofstudying chemistry. Crazy people, straight people. 
Starting off in life, whether married or single, will probably be similar to starting off in college. At first it will seem exciting, then it will get dull and routine ­until you learn to play with Life and get to know it. Life is a game -to be played with and enjoyed. And 
knowing life is bound to be better than studying it. 
Features Editor..........................................Molly Woulfe Photo Edltor...................................................)ohn Macor 
Business Manager .....................................Greg Hedges Controller ...........................................................Jim Rudd AdvertisingManager......................................Mark Ellis Advertising Sales Manager...............Michael MeSally Circulation Manager ...............................Beth Hackett Production Manager..............................)ohn McGrath 

-----~----------------------------~ 
·rhe Observer Monday, March 9, 1981 -page 3 


Fed cuts cancel sytnposiutn 
. speaker, was disappointed at missing 
the opportunity. "I would have real­
ly enjoyed participating in the sym· 
posium," he said, "especially since 
our office is in its .2'ith year. with 
much activity to tell about." 
Speakers in the fields of educa­
tion, medicine and athletics from all 
over the country were scheduled to 
appear at the symposium, as well, 
within the program of speeches, 
panel discussions and demonstra· 
lions of various kinds. These leaders 
included representatives from Univ. 
California/Berkeley, Purdue. San 
jose State Univ., as well as local ex· 
perts in all ofthe areas mentioned. In 
addition, Notre Dame 
representatives Rev. Edmund P. 
Joy'-·e. Rev. John 1.. Van Wolvkar, 
Crosson. Bodnar, and senior Scott 
Zettek were also sceduled to par· 
tielpate. 

Although this cancellation comes 
in the first year that the event has 
been initiated, students can look for· 
ward to a resceduled symposium, on 
the same topic, set for Dec. 4 and 5. 
"I'm not dismayed at the cancetla· 
tion," Crossen said, "because we do 
hope to still offer students this free 
opportunity, and it is one by which 
they really can benefit." 


How about 
bringing us 
your ideas? 
The best education after college Is being able to put your talent to work. To do this, you need an environment that is open to your ideas. One that can offer you challenge, responsibility and diversity. Scott Paper can do just 
, that. 
Because of our size and diversity, we can offer capable people an environment in which to develop their potential. Talented college graduates will find career growth op­portunities in finance, marketing and marketing research, accounting, engineering, research and development, management science and industrial relations. 
That's why you should learn more about Scott Paper, a multi-dimensional, Fortune 500 company. For over 100 years, we have been pro­ducing a variety of quality consumer and commer­cial paper products. 
We are a company open to ideas. How about bringing us yours? 
There is a lot more to Scott than just paper. 
CONTACT YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE FOR INFORMATION 





SCOTT 
SCOTI PAPER COMPANY 
An equal opportunity employer. MlF 


By KATIE McDONNELL 
Neu•s .\'luff 
The hard-nosed administration promist·d by Ronald Reagan has madt· Notre Dame its latest victim of federal cutbacks and reductions this wt•t•k by causing the cancellation of a highly-publicized symposium, en· titled "Collegiate Lifestyles for the 'HOs," that was to take place in the Center for Continuing Education this weekend. 
Tht· two-day symposium, whose chairpt·rsons had been Dr. Patricia 
B. Crosson, director of Psychologi· cal Servkt•s and Dr. lxslle M. Bod· nar. coordinator ofSports Medicine, was devised to help students gain valuable insight into such topics as good nutrition, exercise, sports, and psychological skills towards con­trolling anxiety. 
The symposium was cancelled early this week, however, after Cros· son had been notit1ed that C. Carson Conrad, director of the Prt•sident's Council on Physical Fitness, would ht· unable to attend the event, due to the federal budget cuts that will take affect in his office in approximately two weeks, hut which he is obliged to comply with now. In essence, tht·se reductions caused Conrad to 
cancel  all  activities  that  he  had  
scheduled  for  the  last  two-week  
period.  
Conrad,  the  symposium's  main  

• • .Judy 
continuedfrom ptlge I 
The "good Samaritan" then drove the woman and her children along l-465 and onto Indiana 67, but drove past the turnoff Mrs. Chasteen wanted and into a seduded area. The bodies were found about three hours later by mushroom hunters In the west fork of White Lick Creek. 
Judy -the "good Samaritan" -later testified in court that the pollee theory was correct. 
Mrs. Chasteen's body was lying about 250 yards from a bridge. Her daughter's body was found next to the bank several yards from her mother. The bodies of the two boys were found in the water next to the bank, about 300 yards further downstream. 
A stunned and silent courtroom room listened as judy admitted the rape­strangulation of Mrs. Chasteen and murders ofthe children -Misty Ann, 5, Steven, 4, and Mark, 2. 
Mrs. Chasteen had been divorced about two years from Mark Chasteen, who at the time of the murders was with the Navy in California. Her boyfriend,Jack Lane, Is a chef. They had planned to marry. 
Judy was convicted by a Morgan Circuit Court jury that reconvened on March 8, 1980 to reminisce at the Bloomington Holiday Inn about the three­week trial in which more than 60 persons testified. 
Some jurors might have recommended lengthy consecutive prison sen­tences for the murders hadJudy not taunted the jurors with threats. Judy told jurors and the judge that if he didn't get the death sentence, he would get out of jail and that they might be his next victims. 
"That really shook me a little," said Sappington. "l already had my mind made up, but it helped me to come across with a vote for the death penalty. It swayed a couple of the others. 
"At first, I thought I was going to have a problem thinking about the ver­dict and the death penalty," said Sappington. "I'm a worrier and I was afraid I might lay awake and think about it. But I'm convinced what we did was right and I've not lost a minute ofsleep. A couple of the others said it shook them up a bit and they lost a couple of nights sleep, but that has passed now." 
Judy first was scheduled to die in the electric chair on May 15. That, however, was appealed. In Q(·tober 1980, Judy told the Indiana Supreme Court he did not want to carry the appeal further. 
The court then askedJudgeJeffrey V. Boles to set a sentencingdate, which he did on Feb. 9 of this year. 


.----~-~-----------­
Monday, March 9, 1981-page 4
The Observer ,...--------------,,Down-to-earthhumor 

OOPY :!!~:::~!!IIDBD 
Applications will be accepted until 
MARCH 11 
QUESTIONS???????? 
call mary fran at 7992 or J 7 J 5 



DING 
Herbert Gold entertains SLF 
I that of tense drama when he read forme."
By DIANE DIRKERS from Cohorts, a novel dealing with Other works by Gold include the
News Staff 

the the oncoming senility of his fat­celebrated short story, "The Heart of Herbert Gold, noted novelist, 
her and the family's struggle to cope the Artichoke", and the books: Fat­short story writer, autobiographer, 
with it. hers, Birth of a Hero, The Age of "My father is tired of growing Happy Problems, My Last Two
children's writer, and cnuc, old," he read, "He wants me to fix Thousand Years, and Tbe Young
lectured Friday evening in the things for him. He used to ftx things Prince and the Magic Cone. 
Memorial Library Auditorium as part of the week-long SoJPhomore Literacy Festival. Gold, who earned a 1948 Fulbright Scholarship, read 
...Q & A
from two upcoming novels: A Walk on the West Side and Cohorts. Gold bases his works on personal continuedfrom page 1 what we call "educational sanc­
experiences. Recounted in a realis­tions" because, remember, a student
tic and down-to-earth manner, he 
coordinator who makes the decision 
dealt with situations and topics to has power over the rules. If she
in collaboration with the student which the everyday man relates. decides to break the rules, she also
judicial commission and student ad­In A Walk on the West Side, a 
visor -these people make the 
decides to accept the consequences.
humorous and highly satirical piece, 
determination of where the case is 
We have a variety of educationalhe recounts his "tutoring" sessions 
to be heard. I hear cases when they with a prostitute-turned-journalist. sanctions -the most serious of
are referred to the dean's hearing His reading, filled with double board. which is social probation. Being on meanings and facetious comments, social probation means that the stu­
kept the audience laughing. Q: Can you specify the different 
dent in a marginal status with the in-
When, for instance, he told the ex­types ofdiscipline used in thejudi­hooker that the writing comes from cial cases? 
stitution. We can place a student on
the innermost essence ofevery part probation for a month, a semester or
of the body: "She looked at me like I A: The nature of the student, at­had freaky needs or something. She titude towards the infractions and 
even a year. It's the first step ofbeing didn't like men who talked dirty." disciplinary history ofthe student­
dismissed. We only use this sanction Gold changed the tone of the the all these determine the severity of lecture from humor and satire to the disciplinary action. We have when we feel someone will learn something. 

APARTMENTS 
The Obset:ver 

~c:}c:lct~======================Mo=n=da=y,=M~M=ch=9=,1=9=8l===pa=ge=S
Molarity 
The Daily Crossword 
©1981 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Michael Molinelli 


ACROSS 29 Worsted 1 Icelandic fabric narrative 30 Ireland 5 Curtailed 31 Rigging 10 "In cor-support 

pore-" 32 Boy 14 Nuncupative 35 Threesome 15 Relating 39 Depot: abbr. 
to hogs 40 River in 16 Of certain France poems 41 Search for 17 Bible 42 Canvasses 
twosome 43 Brie, e.g. 20 Consumed 45 Defendant's 21 Der -second 22 Moth chance 23 Charity 48 Inter ­24 Birthplace 49 Merman 
of leather 50 Applaud 26 Corrupts 51 Wapiti 

Friday's Puzzle Solved 

54 Apocalyptic 24 Alloy of quartet lead and 58 "What is tin so-... 11 25 Waterless 59 Rlverin 26 Wagers France 27 Runamok 60 Get up 28 La Douce 61 Remarkable 29 Boxes thing 31 Talent 62 Musical 32 Comer group 33 Wargod 63 Comic 34 Dick Van-Johnson 36 Panay port 37 Fountain DOWN order 1 Whiskey 38 Lost 
mixer 42 Choose 2 "I smell-" 43 Table wine 3 Donated 44 Roof angles 
4 Ex-champ 45 Kind of 5 Bible rocket 
songs 46 Alienor 6 Relatives Frome 7 Use a bike 47 "-lgo 8 Siamese again" 
twin 48 Singly 9-volante 50 Voucher 10 Well-51 Eastern 
groomed VIP 11 Proverb 52 For fear 12 Saltpeter that 13 Like yellow 53 Joint 
pigment: 55 Service 

var. group: abbr. 18 Hill and-56-room 19 Dimension 57 Proposed 23 Underthe amendment 
covers letters 



THE OMBUDSMAN SERVICE 
IS SEEKING APPLICATIONS FOR THE POSITION OF DIRECTOR 
APPLICATIONS CAN BE LEFT WITH 
THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT SECRETARY OR IN. THE OMBUDSMAN OFFICE 
APPLICATIONS ARE DUE BY THE 13th OF MARCH 

FOR MORE INFORMATION 
CAll: TOM · 3200/7370 or 0-B-U-D 

Campus 
•12:00 
p.m. -noontalk, snite museum curator stephen spiro on rembrandt's etchings, an­nenberg auditorium, snite museum ofart 

•12:15 
p.m. -economics dept. workshop, "oil prices, agricultural prouction and changes in real income in brazil," dr. bernard alves, visit­ing professor in dept of economics, memorial library lounge 

•12:30 
p.m. -peace corps and vista film presentation, representitive to answer ques­tions, cce bui!ding 

•3:30 
p.m. -aerospace and mechanical engineering lecture, "noise abatement ofin­plant trailers," with representitives of ford motor company, 356 fitzpatrick hart 

•4:00 
p.m. -vista presenta· tion, Iafortune little theatre 

•4:15 
p.m. lecture, "christianity and humanism," dr. kerry koller, director ofcen­ter for christian studies, 10 I law building, sponsored by st. thomas more colloquim 

•4:30 
p.m. -lenten vespers, lady chapel, sacred heart church, continues every week­day until april I5 except for spring break 

•6:30 
p.m. -basketball ban­quet, social hour starts, ace 

•7:30 
p.m. -cinema at the museum, "kiss me deadly", an­nenberg auditorium, sponsor: department ofcommunications and theater 

•7:30 
p.m. -special lecture, "mechanisms ofplate tectonics: gravity sliding, mantle plumes, or mantle convection?" profes­sor s.k. runcorn, university of newcastle upon tyne, england, 278 galvin, sponsor: depart­ments of biology and earth 


sciences  
•7:30 p.m.  -"the just assas­ 
sins", nazz  
•8 p.m.  - talk, "this running  

life: philosophy, psychology, and physiology," dr. george sheehand, medical doctor, aut­hor, and running enthusiast, carroll hall, saint mary's col­lege, sponsor: sapb, free of charge 
Today's Quote 

Happiness is a huttertly, which when pursued, is always just beyond your grasp, hut which, if you will sit down quietly, may alight upon you. 





·------------·I 
I 6 ~~ I I~ ~~~&)<:,I
I 0~ I 
I ~ *II
** I

IIC>~ ~ ** I
I * I

!------------.1 
.....-ROCCOS--1 
men's and women's hairstyling at comfortable prices 531 N. Michigan 233-4957 


The Observer Monday, March 9, J981 -page 6 
Zettek-LeBlanc highlight Bouts 

The quickestway toget 

emergency m~ney. 
By TIM LARKIN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's 51st annual Bengal Bouts concluded Saturday night at the ACC. The tournament, under first-year director Rich Hunter. was a booming success. Hunter succeeded Dominick ). "Nappy" Napolitano, who founded the tournament in 1931. 
Before Saturday's main attraction was the presentation of the 1981 Bengal Bouts A ward. The recipient of this year's award was "'Buddy" Romano for his active participation in the bouts throughout the years. 
The highlight of the Bengal Bouts was the battle between super-heavyweights -all-American Scott Zettek and sophomore Mark LeBlanc -both Irish football players. 
The fight was the drawing card for the charity tournament to raise funds for the Holy Cross Missions of Bangladash. Zettek had the ad­vantage in reach with his 6-5 build to LeBlanc's 6-2. However, LeBlanc with his teenage Golden Gloves ex­perience and his upper body strength was considered a favorite in his first appearence in the Bengal Bouts. 
Although LeBlanc dominated the final round, the split decision went to Zettek. LeBlanc's poor start and the standing eight count in the second round spelled victory for Zettek. This was his second Bengal Bout championship, the first coming his freshman year ( 1977). 
"I thought my fighting was slop­py," Zettek said. "But if the crowd enjoys it then I'm glad. The impor­tant thing is to please the crowd." 

"I felt my fighting was all right," LeBlanc said. "But Scott did a good job ofstopping me. "I expected jabs from Scott but he came right after me," continued LeBlanc. "He also used his height to his advantage." 
An emergency stop for repairs can wipe out even the best-heeled traveler. Luckily, all you need is the price of a phone call to get you the money before your car gets off the lift. Here's what to do when you need money in a hurry. 
1•Call home. Report the situation, and tell the folks they can get emergency cash to you fast by phone. 
~ • Ask them to call Western Union's toll-free number, 800-325-6000 (in Missouri, 800-342-6700), anytime, day or night. They charge the money and the service fee to their MasterCard* or VISAt card. A Western Union Charge Card Money Order, up to $1,000, will be flashed to the Western Union office or agent nearest your emergency. 

3•Pick up your money-usually within two hours-at the loeal Western Union office or agent. There are 8,500 nationally, except in Alaska. Conveniently, about 900 locations are open 24 hours. It's that easy. 
Be sure to remind your parents about our toll-free number .. It's all they need to call Western Union to the rescue. 
•The 
MasterCard namt> is owned by lntt>rhank Carrl As.o;:,ociation. 

•The 
VISA name is owned h.v VISA [ntt'rnational. 



The evening began as exciting as 
it ended. The opening bout in the 
132-pound class pitted Rob Rivera 
against Tim Broderick. Rivera, a senior, was the defending champion At the 1 :00 mark of the third round the referee ended the fight. 
The 140-pound class bout 

followed between senior Fritz Fis­
cher ~nd junior Mark Martersteck. 
The unanimous decision went 
to Martersteck. 
The 177-pound showdown was between senior Mike Burke, who was defending his championship, and sophomore Jim Burelbach. Burke won a unanimous decision. 
Junior Mike Walsh took the 
heavyweight title over senior_Neal 
Elattrache. Walsh was the aggressor 
throughout the fight and won by a 
unanimous decision. 
Senior Dan Mohan failed to retain 
his championship in the 145-pound 
class. Junior Tom Bush, a southpaw, 
was the winner unanimously. 
In the 150-pound title bout, juniorJohn Donovan was victorious over sophomore Mike Mulligan. Donovan's constant jabbing led the way to an unanimous victory. 
Jim Mladenik, a junior, defeated 
unanimously senior Dave "Spider" 
Lockhard in the 157-pound cham­
pionship. 
Graduate student Tom McCabe 
won unanimously over senior Chris 
Digan for the 163-pound champion­
ship. 
In the I 70-pound bout, Greg 
Brophy, a junior, was a unanimous 
victor against junior Rob Verfurth, 
despite giving away five inches in 
height. 
Fencers win three to end season 
CLEVELAND -Notre Dame's 
men and women's fencing squads, 
along with Saint Mary's, enjoyed a 
profitable Saturday afternoon at 
Cleveland State University as they 
each closed their seasons by adding 
three vicotries to their records. 
Notre Dame's men's team 
smashed Oberlin College, 25-2, 
defeated Cleveland State, 19-8, and 
trounced Bowling Green, 24-3. The 
Irish, who were eighth in the 
NCAA's last year, finish with a 21-2 
record. 
The Notre Dame womens squad's 
three victories upped the Lady Irish 
to 16-4. The Lady Irish beat Oberlin 
and Cleveland State by identical 6-3 
scores. The Lady· Irish downed 
Bowling Green 7-2. 
Saint Mary's closes its season I 7-3 by 
defeating Oberlin, Cleveland State 
and Bowling Green, 7-2, 6-3 and 6-3 
respectively. 
Ray Benson and Marc Dejong will 
represent the Irish in Saturday's 
Great Lakes Championnships at the 
University of Wisconsin-Parkside, in 
Kenosha, Wise. Daly and Harstrom 
will compete in epee and Armi and 
Muoio in sabre. 
Captains were also announced 
and Daley was named captain in 
epee, D' Allura in sabre, and 
Thompson in foil for Mike DeCicco's ·men's fencing team. 
184~1 St. Rd. 23 

.... 

Sports~B=:;=r:;=;=i=-e~S~===~===========M=o=nct=a=r,=M=ar=c=h=9,=t9=s=t=p=a=ge=:a7 
by The Obscr/'t'r .1nd Tht• A.rroaated Prt•rr 
The Notre Dame swlniming team surprised 

• • .DePaul
everyone this weekend by finishing third among the II schools par­ticipating In the Midwest Invitational Championships in Terre Haute, 
Ind. The best the Irish had ever finished in the annual meet was fifth. Dennis Stark's swimmers accumulated 306 points, 32 behind second place Bradley. Champion Western Kentucky finished with 396. The Irish set a total of seven new school records among the 16 swimming events. Michael Shepardson's time in the 100-yard butterfly was the most eye-opening -:50.9, eclipsing the old record he set last season hy almost two full seconds. The time also set an Indiana State pool record and gave him first place in the' event. Complete details of the meet will he in tomorrow's Observer. 
The Notre Dame tennis team tost its second 
match of the season SaUJrday, falling to visiting Wisconsin, 6-3, in the 
ACC. The Irish arc now 4-2 on the year and are in Bloomington today 
to face the Indiana Hoosiers. 
Asquash clinic will be held at 7 p.m. Tuesday on the ACC courts. The clinic will consist of a demonstration, a discussion, and a film. 
Sign-ups for Bookstore Basketball will be at 6 p.m. Tuesday in Lafortune. 
The deadline for sign-ups for interhall men's and women's softball and basketball along with baseball and graduate softball is March 13. Rosters must be turned in to the non-varsity office at the ACC. 
In women's interhall basketball, Breen­
Phillips defeated Lewis, 31-24, In semi-final action. In the other semi­final game, Farley I defeated Farley II, 22-19. The final is scheduled for 7 p.m. Tuesday in the ACC pit. 
continuedfrom page 8 
annual Wendall Smith Award (presented to the Notre Dame -DePaul game MVP), was one of the players most excited about Grubbs performance. 
"The biggest thing today was Ted­
dy's contribution," said the man 
they call 'The Glide'. "We've been 
without him for so long, and today 
we found out he was back." 
Last year, DePaul's loss to the Irish knocked them out of the No.1 spot in the polls just before the tourna­ment started. This year, their win will almost certainly return them to the top spot as the playoffs get un­derway. 
"I don't like it at all," said Meyer, only half-jokingly. "I'd rather be in the second or third spot coming into this time of year, but there isn't much we can do about it. 
"Going to the Mideast regionals means that we may have to play In­diana on their home court, but that doesn't bother us that much. We feel we can play with any team in the country now." 
Meyer did have one wish for the tournament. "Give me someone new to play," he pleaded. "I hate to play teams that we have already beaten, because they get so 'up' for the game. We don't want to have to play any of those teams that are looking for revenge." 
Meyer may find himself in just such a situation in the Blue Demons first tournament game next weekend. On Feb. 9, DePaul em­harassed Creighton, 83-57, and on Saturday the Demons will take on the winner of the game between St. joseph's and those same Creighton Blue jays. 
The announcement that the Irish would be heading east came as a to­tal surprise to Notre Dame players and coaches. Most had expected to head west next weekend, either to the Midwest or West regionals. 
When asked what he though of the turn ofevents, Phelps told repor­ters that he really hadn't given it much thought. "At least my parents will get to see the game," he 
Irish runners end season with win over No. Illinois 
shrugged. 
"I figured we'd be in Austin, Texas and then New Orleans," Phelps's as­sistant, Pete Gillen, said. "I certainly never figured it would be Providence and Atlanta." 
The Irish will have to face the win­ner of Thursday's james Madison­Georgetown game on its way to a possible third meeting with UCLA. The Bruins wlll have to earn that rematch by topping the winner of the game between a tough Brigham Young squad that features All­America Danny Aingc and the Ivy League champion (either Princeton or Penn). 
Notre Dame's Chuck Aragon and jacques Eady each won two events to lead the Irish to a 73-58 victory over Northern lllinois Friday night in the indoor season's final track meet at the ACC. 
Paul jorgensen, a freshman ex­change student from Denmark, set an indoor varsity record in the pole vault with a vault of I 5-8. jorgen­sen's vault erases Perry Stow's I979 record of I 5-7 3/4. 
Aragon, who ran Notre Dame's first sub-4-minute mile last weekend 
in the lllini Classic, took first in the 
mile with a 4:16.7 clocking and 
added another triumph in the 880­
yard run with a time of I :57.5 
He'll compete in this weekend's 
NCAA indoor championships in 
Detroit in the mile and distance 
medley relay. 
Eady took the 440-yard dash in 49.2 
seconds and the 300-yard dash in 
31.4. 
Aragon and Eady will be joined by Rick Rogers and Tim Macauley In .the Irish distance medley. 
AH clt~ss•f•ed ads must be rece•veo bv 4 45 p m two davs pr•or to the 
1SS11P tn wh•..:h lhP :td 1s nm The Observer off•ce wdl accept c1ass 1f,eds 
Mondav lt"1rnt~yh F1•ct:~v. 10:00 am to 5·00 p m All classtfreds must be
Classifieds pr~·Pifl(1 •·•:ner tn pmson or through the mall 
NOTICES PROFESSIONAL TYPING. Term Jlllpert, theaaa. etc. Tape tranacrlptlon. Lut year'a aame low prices. All work guaranteed. aardvark automatic aolu­tlona. 2811-6753. USED & OUT·OF-PAINT BOOKS bought. aold. searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. Tuea·Sunday, 12-6. 1027 E.  BUS TO O'HARE OVER BREAK Ill Approximately te seats will be available on a luxury charter bus to O'Hare with the Notre Dame Tennis team·s at Spring Break. The bus will leave the main circle at 5:30 p.m. Thurs.. March 12. The return trip w111 leave from O'Hare at 6 a.m. (Chicago time) on Monday. March 23. The cost for the transportation is $15 each way. Anyone Interested may sign up in Room 215. Rockne Bldg.  Needed: Aide to Houston for Spring break. Since I received no response to my last plea, I will now share the unusual". Call Kathy. (41) 4291. ............................ Desperately need ride to Philly or South Jersey lor spring break. Will share usual. Call Fran 8559. Any time. Need ride to Dallas lor break. Call John Higgins at 8553 or 1715 and leave a  Three tun-loving sun worshippers DESPERATELY crave Ft. Lauderdale rays. But first we need a ride! Will share driving & expenses. Can leave anytime. II travelling that way. please call Molly, Hannah or Ellery at 8008. Need ride to Massachusetts area lor Spring break. Call Mike, 1780 W1th gasoline at $1.55·gallon, you need  Ann Landers says: Have a problem? Can't sleep? Can't work? Can't? Killed anyone recently? Constipated? Fall down and go boo­boo? Well, all you have to do is GET COUNSELING I A.B. Have yourself a wonderful break -I'm sure you will. if you know what I mean... Love.  ATIN. JUNIORS Sign up today for your SENIOR YEARBOOK PHOTO by calling No 3557 or STOP by 2c LaFortune (off the bal­lroom between 9 · 5). Nobody IS uglier than Jeff Jeffers. JODI. HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY TO THE NICEST GIRL AT SMCI  
Wayne (One block south of Eddy·  message.  all the riders you can get I Please, I need  T.N.  JDR  
Jefferson Intersection)  
 Must talk girltnend out o1 having an  a ride to northern Jersey (right off l·eO) or Allentown. PA area. Would like to  P.S. you better behave yourself I  DONNA COSMO.  
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Emergency loans tor ND students. $20· $200. One percent interest De in one  LOST/FOUND  ABORTION. Need nde to Northern Jer­sey after break. Call Michael·1615  leave as early as possible . .Man:h 1 t or 12. Ca liM ike at4579  0. Why should you save penn1es in the Yukon? A. For Ugly Moose On Campus I  BEST WISHES FOR A VERY COSMIC BIRTHDAY I LOVE. COSMONAUT  
month. Open 11:30-12:30. M-F Base­ment of LaFortne. Fmal day to seniors to apply IS Fnday. March 13 WILL DO TYPING. REASONABLE RATES. CALL. 287-5162. INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS RINGS $20·$85 OR MORE WE MAKE HOUSE CALLS. 255·2402. PROFESSIONAL TYPING. Convenient to Notre Dame. 272-7823. IMPROVE YOUR GAADESI Research catalog· 308 page•-10.27e descriptive hstlnga · Rush $1 00 (refundable). Box 25097C. Loa Angeles. 90025. (213) 477· 8228 NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR FOOD AND COCKTAIL WAITRESSES: WAITERS . HOSTESS, AND CASHIER. WOULD LIKE EMPLOYEES WILLING TO STAY THROUGH THE SUMMER. APPLY IN PERSON CAPTAIN ALEXAN· DEA'S MOONRAKEA,3-5 PM WEEK· DAYS.300 E COLFAX. DO NOT CALLI OVERSEAS JOBS · Summer·year round. Europe, S.Amer.. Australia. As1a, All t1elds $500·$1.200 monthly Sightseeing. Free Info. Wnte IJC. Box 52·1N4. Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 SENIORS, KUBIAK'S TAVERN would like to thank all who came to the REMEMBER FRESHMAN YEAR PARTY" FRIDAY. FEB. 27TH. Your claso 11 one to be proud of. BUTCH KUBIAK The Obatrver (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday e~cept during exam and ~ac.a\ion periods. The Oburvor ls8ubiished by the students of Notre ame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may bo purchased lor S20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Second class postage paid. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. The Obaerver Is amember of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved  LOST: BLUE DOWN COAT SATURDAY NIGHT AT 914 SOUTH BEND AVE. BLACK HAT IN ONE POCKET. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 1615. LOST · SILVER MEDAL ON CHAIN · LEFT IN ANGELA ATHLETIC CENTER ON WED FEBRUARY 25. Specs· double sided 1) sacred heart ofJesus2) Mary w1th child; Latin script; Family heirloom CALL e477 GENEROUS REWARD UPON SAFE RETURN FOUND: Brown warm-up top. m the Volunteer Servires van. Call Mike, te52. LOST· IN SMC CAFETERIA-ITALIAN GRAMMAR BOOK · small. paperback lost Monday. March 2 · VERY IMPOR­TANT THAT IT IS RETURNED · REWARD OFFERED. CALL 8477 or 41­4606 upon finding. FOR RENT ) FOR RENT· UGLY DUCKLING RENT· A·CAR FROM $7.95 A DAY AND 7 CENTS A MILE PHONE 259-UGLY FOR RESERVATIONS. AVAILABLE NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2 FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES 234 2626 NEWLY REMODELED3·BEDROOM. 2· STORY HOME FOR RENT. 3 BLOCKS FROM N.D. NEW KITCHEN, BATHROOM. CARPET. 2·CAA GARAGE. CALL 233-5507 WANTED Need nde to Jersey lor break W1ll supply necess1t1es. Call Don 671e NEED AIDE TO PHEONIX. WILL SHARE USUAL CALL MARK 3303  Need nde to Dallas area for break. Will share cost and driving. Call Mike at 3105. Needed: Aide for two to Austin or San Antonia. Tx. Call Kathy 41·4762 or Carole 41-4875. Have room for at least one. maybe two nders to Long Island-New York City area. Leaving Fnday the 13th before noon. returning Sunday the 22nd. Call Brian at 6795. WANTED: a clean copy of the Notre Dame vs. Valparaiso basketball program from December 22. t9eO. Call Tim Neely 1426 or 1715. 2 GIRLS DESPERATELY NEED AIDES TO TAMPA. FL. AREA. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME AND WILL GLADLY SHARE EXPENSES. PLEASE CALL: NANCY(5366) CLAAE(5333) SMC. Need 3 rides to St. Louis area over break. Call Tlsh 4263 SMC I DESPERATELY NEED A AIDE TO NEW HAVEN. CT FOR SPRING BREAK. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME. WILL SHARE DRIVING AND EXPENSES. PLEASE CALL HEATHER AT 6232. Needed: Aide to Auston or San Antonia. Tx. for Spnng Break. Call Carole 41· 4875 or Kathy 41·4762. Need nders to U. of Virginia or vicinity for 3·12 or 3·13. Call John 3651 Need nders from Boston to ND alter break. Call John 3651. PLEASE HELP MElli I need a nde loAf· lanta for sprmg break. Will share drivmg and gas! Please call LUKE at 4339 NEED 1 AIDER TO FLORIDA-Tampa Bay area. Share in exp. for rented car. Call Nancy at 8145 or Maureen at 4678. DESPERATE: 2 OR 3 NEED RIDE TO LAUDERDALE AREA FOR BREAK LEAVE ANYTIME AND WILL SHARE USUAL CALL PAUL(3241) OR MARK(32431 Need nde to Des Moines tor Spnng Break. Please call Martina. 1284  Sorry. Moose Control. but UMOC IS coming I PERSONALS I Save your penn1esl Anyone wilh that sense of humor hasATIENTION all Flap Jaw tans. Digger GOT to be UGLYI ..blew us off last weekend. but he WILL BILL ·GRIZZ' NELLIST FOR UMOCbuy in Philly ... see you at Smokey Joe's. BILL 'GRIZZ' NELLIST LOOK·ALIKE CONTEST COMING SOON. WATCHMichelle. THIS SPACE FOR FURTHER DETAILS. Danke schoenl I hope everything works out... Love. BILL GRIZZ' NELLIST FOR UMOC Your Tuesday friend Jeff Jeffers 1s very ugly. I-ll SHIRLEY/II TIM To some. bourbon and O.J may sound LEX I. crazy.HERE'S THE PERSONAL I TOLD YOU To others. the number 13 may seem un·I'D SEND. NOWYOUCAN'TSAYTHAT I lucky.NEVER SENT YOU ONE. BYE.. To me. they've helped make all the dlf· RONSI · terence HAPPY BIRTHDAY JEFF I TONIGHT love. DILLON HALL HOCKEY WILL RULE MaureenONCE AGAIN AS THEY TAKE ON THE OTIEAS FROM OFF CAMPUS COME whoever borrowed" my leatherOUT AND SEE THE DILLON wallabees. please return them. my lifeDIATBALLS AT THEIR BEST. DILLON has been meaningless Without them.HOCKEY No. 1 111111 GO DILLON murph.GO DILLON PRO BURKE FOR UMOC BUMPEASTICKER (1) WHEN YOU SAY NOTRE DAME.ATTN: ENGLISH O'l AMERICAN YOUVE SAID IT ALL. (2) WHEN YOUSTUDIES MAJORS. CURRENT COPY SAY IRISH. YOUVE SAID IT ALL' $2 00EDITORS Applications are now bemg each. Send check or money order to:accepted for Observer copy ed1tor IRISH"positions. These are PAID POSITIONS. P.O. BOX 3364 Simply submit name. address, phone CHAPEL HILL N.C. 27514and ma1or with a short stalement detaolng any journalistic or literary ex· Jeff­perience. Present copy ed1tors musl t. No they're notalso submit applications if they wish to 2. Yes there 1scontinue working when the new board 3 What was lhe question?/ lakes over. Applrcations can be ·Betsdropped off at the Observer oolllce ps·McCarthy & Milligan? ,(3rd lloor LaFortune) C·O the Senior Copy Editor. Ouest1ons??? Call Mary ?????INSOMNIA ??7?? Fran Callahan at 7992 or t 715. FATHER MICHELl LECTURE TAPESDeadlme March 11 ON SALE NOW! SLEEP SOUNDLY LISTENING TO IN·Danny and Jim. SPIAATIONAL STATEMENTS SUCHCongrats on gett1ng AA9I I knew you ASwould. BOY... 1s Keenan gomg Ia be a THE AUTHOR OF ECCLESIASTESfun dorm next yearll OION'T KNOW THE MEANING OF EXIS· Love. Sarah TENTIALISM. LIKE JOHN LENNON DID IN THE '60s. I DIDNT BUY ANY OF HIS Danny and J1m. Congrats on gett1ng RECORDS. ITS YOUR FAULT HE HADRAs! I knew you would BOY .. IS A VAULT OF FURS IN DAKOTA. VAKeenan gomg to be a fun dorm next SEE." year !I Love. Sarah r0Fr1:STANT RELIEF DIAL 2DK·HAID  Go Gonzo I More. morel JOANIE McCURDY FOR UMOC DROP OFFDONATIONSAT311 BP JOAN WILL MAKE YOU GROAN Need Aide To DALLAS/II For Mid· semester Break Call Dave at 3306 ... Jeff Jeffers IS so ugly. he doesn't even deserve UMOC. PRO BURKE FOR UMOC PRO BURKE FOR UMOC PRO BURKE FOR UMOC CJO. I heard that your new" birthday was an upllftmg experience. Also. how wa St. LOUIS? .oe~l THE HOOSIER PATROL IS COMINGIll THE HOOSIER PATROL IS COMING Ill THE HOOSIER PATROL IS COMING II! Pam B. I m1ssyou. Bruce Captain Axe 19 d9ad He was dueling the red·headed poacher. bul a Sin· sem1lllan atlempted to ass 1st h1m The S1nsem1lllan would have been killed but Axe threw homselt between hiS ev1l brother and his would·be sav1or And even as Max cut h1s brother down. the S1nsem1lllan !~red and killed Max Tho S1nsemill1ans and my 1m penal legions are routing the remam1ng rebel forces In the Debelian Sector The revolt has come to a QUICk and bloody end We shall now go about returnmg m~rth to Control There shall be an end to th1s treachery. We shalll1ve m peace Moose Control And so lhe saga contmues 0: Who's got a wonderful feeling. &In· glng In the South Yukon? A. Uncle Remoosel (One for Walt D1sney fans. and one requ1nng al1t1le thought Bet you can't guess what another Watt Oosney Moose JOke would be-one we have resisted prmt1ng tor monthsI) Note to Thomoose Jem1elity -you know me. (though not 1n a Biblical sense) but you don·t remamber Moose Control  

'--------------------------------------~~~~-­
Monday, March 9, 1981-page 8



SROrts 


ROSEMONT, Ill. -Capitalizing on two lopsided scoring sprees, one in each half, DePaul welcomed its likely return to the nation's top bas­ketball ranking by thumping Notre Dame, 74-64, Sunday at the Horizon. The contest marked the end of the regular season for both teams. 
The first spurt began 11 minutes into the game, after a Joe Kleine layup had given the visiting Irish a 24-1 5 lead. In the ensuing five minutes, DePaul rattled off 13 un­answered points and took a 28-24 lead -a lead which Notre Dame never regained. 
Blue Demon guard Clyde Brad­shaw, in his last game before the home fans, ignited the surge. He had eight of his game-high 13 assists before DePaul took its 38-35 edge into the lockerroom at the half. 
"I guess the game really came down to quickness," said Ray Meyer, DePaul's 67-year-old coach. "We got a few key buckets on the fast break." 
Meyer added that "Clyde Brad­shaw has got two speeds -fast and faster. He makes things happen." 
Bradshaw made it happen a.gain in the second half. Kelly Tripucka's tip­in with over 11 minutes left k•ept the Irish within two, 54-52, but then Bradshaw took over. 
"Clyde the Glide," who also scored 14 points while winning the Wendell Smith Award as the game's most valuable player. canned two straight layups and started DePaul's second big rally. In an eight-minute stretch, the Demons outscored Notre Dame, 13-4, grabbing an 11­point lead with just over three minutes left. 
"During that stretch they were 
Irish head into secondseason 
By SKIP DESJARDIN the time, we didn't think anyone in ready to put the loss behind them. Sports Writer the country could beat us. After we "We'll be ready by Saturday," he lost, we just couldn't recover in time said. "It would have been great to 
ROSEMONT, IlL -At Notre for the tournament." win this one, but it had no effect on Dame, basketball players think of This year it is Digger Phelps who the pairings or our seed in the each year in terms of two separate will have to get his team over the dis­tournament, so it's best to just forget seasons. Yesterday, one of those appointment ofthe loss in time for a it. We're just going to go out and seasons came to an end. meeting next Saturday in the work hard all week in practice, be­
.k.eiiy Tnpucka, Orlando Wool­

Providence Civic Center. cause it's time to start a whole new 
ridge, and Tracy Jackson each "All this loss means is that we will season." played their last regular season have a great practice on Tuesday," Woolridge, who failed in his bid to games here yesterday. Mark Aguirre said Phelps in the post-game press score in double figures for 40 con­probably did as well. Now the four conference. "Our second season 
secutive games, echoed Tripucka's have less than a week to prepare for starts next weekend. We have been 
sentiments. their "second season." working toward the tournament all 
"We will not let this get us down," "This gives us great momentum year, and we'll be ready when it 
he told reporters. "We're just going going into the tournament," said Ray starts." 
to go into the tournament with a 
Meyer after his team dismantled Tripucka, the game's high scorer good attitude and play as well as we Notre Dame, 74-64. "Last year when with 28 points told a wall-to-wall possibly can." we lost to them at Notre Dame, it press corps in the Irish locker room While Aguirre was pouring, drop­was because we were too cocky. At that he and his teammates were ping, and slamming 24 points 
No.1 bound 

DePaul runs past Irish 
By PAUL MULLANEY leaving the middle open," said Brad­connect on 34.2 percent of its Editor-in-Chief . shaw, "so I would either shoot or second-halfattempts. 
NCAAstudent tickets 

go on sale tomorrow 
Studeots.tnterestedin purchas­bre& .lng ~ ~e NCAA basket· Tickets for Saturday ~on at ball. . . . .. ~dosotomonow Provt4ence are $8, wbile th~ tick­
only,.l.fu01~ ;a;m~ •<» 5 p.m., at the et ptke for the four-team secood-nOUr ticket windows at regio.W,(all games) is $:Z8. There the.&Cc. Jsalimitofone ticketperstudent. 
AU Notre DameandSaintMary's Eadl student must present students (includinggraduate and his·/her I.D. card at the time of law) may purchase tickets for pu.tcllase, and I.D. pictures will 
Saturday afternoon's first-round be checked in Atlanta upon ticket game in Providence, R.I., and I or pickupifthe Irish advance. for the East Regional sellli-finals 
Tickets remaining after Tues. 

andfinalstobeheldinAtlantathe 
day's student sales will be put on 
followingweekend. 
sale to faCQlty, staffmembers, and 

TJckets for the game at 
regolar season ticket holders 

Providence. will be distributed at 
(one ticket per holder) on Wed­


the . purchase, wbile tide· 
nesdaY, from 9 a.m. to 1ZI30 p.m., 

. regional; ifNotre Dame at the Gate 10 (ACC) ticket win­adv~~s tG Ada.nta, will b;: ill:;• dows. Jf any tickets remain after trlbutedatthe Omoiwill-callwin· Wednesday, they will be put on dows by Notre Dame ticket oftlce sale to the general public at Gate 
ofllclals. Students must payfor all 
10.

tickets tomorrow. Checks are to be made payable to the University Ifthe Irish were to win the East ofNotreDame.lfNotreDame fails Regional and advance to the Final to advance to the regional, stu· Four in Philadelphia, students dentsWhoapplyfor regional tick­will be able to purchase tickets ets W"iD ~ reimbursed (checks the Tuesday following spring wfll ~ i~!tl after !!pring bteak.. 

St. Mary's loses 63-50 
drive the lane. 

"Trying to get them into a transi­tion game was our key. We tried to open the game up, while they wanted to slow us down and make us foul." 
DePaul All-American Mark Aguirre was one player who got into foul trouble, picking up his fourth personal only 36 seconds into the final half Nevertheless, Meyer left Aguirre in the lineup, and the junior forward managed to avoid his fifth foul until the last minute-and-a-half. 
"It would have been nice to foul 
Aguirre out earlier," said Notre 
Dame coach Digger Phelps. "We 
were trying to get the ball inside like 
we always do. We think you can get 
yourself in trouble if you only work 
on one man. That's not our game." 

Tripucka said in "that situation you've got to go right at 'em. I think we did that, but we didn't do it enough." 
Leaving the court with an Emmy­
winning performance, Aguirre took 
with him 24 points and 10 rebounds. 
His last two points came 0•1 a 
rousing one-hand slam, and he con­
tributed two key jumpers in 
DePaul's 13-4 surge. 

While DePaul was pulling ahead in the second half, the Irish couldn't seem to buy a basket. After shooting 
54.1 percent from the floor in the first half, Notre Dame could only 
"When we got our lead, we just dropped back in our zone and made them play our game," said Meyer. 
The Irish couldn't find their own game in the second half. Irish star­ters Orlando Woolridge, TracyJack­son and John Paxson combined for 4-for-19 last-half shooting. All three entered the game shooting over 54 percent (Woolridge ranked third na­tionally in field goal accuracy with a 
66.2 mark). 
Turnovers also plagued the Irish -they turned the ball over 23 times. Tripucka, who led the Irish with 28 points and 10 rebounds, was charged with 11 turnovers, while Woolridge was given seven. 
"Our turnovers are what put us in the hole," said Phelps. "Orlando couldn't get his game going today. He was only two-for-seven. And for Kelly Tripucka to have 11 turnovers ... that's not his brand ofbasketball." 
DePaul, now 26-1 and headed to the Mideast Regional, recieved strong performances from Teddy Grubbs ( 14 points, five rebounds) and Terry Cummings ( 10 points, 11 rebounds). 
Tripucka's 28 points were bolstered byJackson's 11 points and Tim Andree's eight. The Irish, en route to a Saturday matchup in the East Regional at Providence, RJ., finished the regular campaign with a 22-5 mark. 

through the hoop, and Clyde Brad­shaw was dishing out 13 assis1ts, Ted­dy "Sweet T" Grubbs played one of 

in state tourney
Irish head east in NCAA 

the best games ofhis career. "We thought Teddy had a greatROSE.\tONT, IlL-At 1:25 p.m. CST, Gene Corrigan, Notre Dame's By DAVE WILSON "I look back on the season, and I 
game last year against Notre Dame,
Athletic Director, got a phone call on a special line installed at the 

Sports Writer think we achieved more and became 
even though we lost," Meyer said.
Horizon expressly for one purpose. The call came from the NCAA a better team than we ever ex­

"So this year we told him to look at
Tournament Selection Committee. In a matter ofminutes, the call was 

Saint Mary's made its first ap­pected," Dallessio conntinued. "We
the ftlms, and see just what kind ofa
complete and so was the transaction. Corrigan had accepted a bid for pearance Saturday at Franklin Col­won our Roundball Classic and the 

game he was capable of playing. We
~otre Dame's eighth consecutive tournament appearant·e. 

lege in the AlA W Division III state District Championship. To me, that
could not have won this game, nor
Saturday afternoon, at a time that will be set later this week to ac­

tournment, but lost 63-50 to Taylor in itselfmakes a great season." 
gone anywhere in the NCAA tourna­
comodate television executives, Notre Dame will play the winner ofa University.

ment, ifhe hadn't come arou111d. Furthermore, the Belles finishedThursday game between Georgetown andJames Madison. 
One might regard the loss as
"We've been without the real their season with a 1 3-4 record
In the other action to be played in the Providence Civic Cc;nter somewhat anticlimactic, consider­

Teddy Grubbs for the last few against other Division lii teams ( 1 5­Saturday, the winner ofThursday's game between Brigham Young and 
ing the Belles garnered the District
weeks, and we needed him badly. 11 overall), meaning the majority ofthe eventual Ivy League champion (Princeton or Penn) will take on Championship last weekend in Fort
When we got into the locker room their losses came at the hands ofhig­third-5ceded UCLA. 
Wayne, but head coach Jerry Dalles­
after the game, all the other players her division teams.
Elsewhere in the East regional, top-seeded Virginia will meet the sio thinks otherwise.

started to sing, 'Teddy Grubbs. We
winner of the Houston-Villanova game in Charlotte, N.C. Fourth­"Hey, I'm not complaining a bit Mary Pat Sitlington led the way for got him back!'

seeded Tennessee will also play in Charlotte, against the winner ofthe about the loss," Dallessio said. "Sure the Belles, with 16 points and nine

Bradshaw, the game's Most
game between Virginia Commonwealth and Long Island. 

we're all disappointed, but I'd say rebounds. Maureen King added 10
Valuable Player, and winner of the
A full-page bracket will appear in a Thursday supplement of The 

we're happy enough just to make it points and eight rebounds and Anne 
See DePAUL, page 7
Observer. 

to the state. Armstrong chipped in nine points. 





