.Byrnes -page 6 


VOL XV, NO. 91 an mdr-pcndr-nt studt'nt nt>wspapcr St'rving notrt' damt' and saint mary's FRIDAY, FF.BRlJARY l.i, 1981 
ND discrimination suit goes to court on Tuesday 
By ANNEJANE DREGALLA 
StaffReporter 
The tenure suit pending against the Notre Dame by 64 past and present women faculty members is scheduled to go to court Tuesday, unless, as some sources are indicat· ing, there is an out-of-court settle· ment. 
Tim McDevitt, University assistant nJUncil, has acknowlnlged the existence of a "settlement in principle" but declined to comment on the distinction between SUl"h a settlement and an actual kgal settle· ment. 
Bridget Arimond, council for the women, also acknowkdged the settlement in principle but would only elaborate that, "We are in the settlement process now." Asked if the trial would go to court Tuesday, she declined comment but said she hoped to know in the "relatively near future what was going on." She could not specify wht'thcr relatively ncar meant weeks or months. The 
U.S. District Court Clerk's office has maintained, however, that the trial is still scheduled, though notification need not be given for cancellation. 
Thc · suit, under the name of Dolores Frese, is a class action suit which was originally two cases. The first case was initiated by Josephine Ford, a professor oftheology and the first woman to ever receive ten ure 
·-··· -------·================ Anorexia nervosa 

Binges becotne 'necessary' 
Editor's Note: Anorexia Nen1usa is a disease which afflicts thousands of college students, mostly female, every year. In the final part of this three-fmrt series, The Observer examines the case of mt tlcttwl Notre Dame student with a more set•ere t•artety of anorexia lmou•n tlS bulimarexia. 
By DAN LEDUC 
Neu•sStaff 
Eikt·n hates t:ating. 
Yet -in any giv<:n day -she 
probably consumes more food than 
most people do in a week. 
Eiken is a bulimarexic, and is ad· 
tlictt·d to the physical act of eating 
mtKh like an alcoholic or drug user 
Is addicted to his habit. 
Bulimarexics binge and purge. 
They eat anything anti everything 
anti tht·n induce vomiting to bring 
up all tht· food. "Not very pleasant, is 
it?" says Eikcn. 
Sht· is an attractive girl with bt:autiful eyes and a ddightful smile -she certainly doesn't look like tht·rt· is anything bMhering her. She is able to talk about, even laugh about her disease, until she goes on a binge. "Then, it's like being Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde," says Eileen. 
When sht· wants to cat, Eileen 
hcl·omes mean, ill-tempered and im· 
possible to he around -and that's 
the way sht· wants it. When she 
hinges she is always alone. "I could 
never hinge in front of someone," 
she says. "It would he too embarrass­ing." 
Just what is a binge? Well, one day last week Eileen went on her usual rounds of fast food restaurants and had stuffed flounder, a baked potato, six hush puppy potatoes, an order for two ofonion rings, a salad, a howl of soup, ten dinner mints, three candy bars, a McChicken, a cheeseburger, large french fries and a Coke -and then made herself throw up. 
She then continued to cat, having three cups ofsoup, six hot dogs, six scrambled eggs, two howls ofcereal, three cartons ofyogurt and a hanana. And then, again, she caused herself to throw up. 
Eileen has had hinges last from 9 

a.m. to 2 a.m. 
Food costs run anywhere from S20 to S30 a day. "It gets ex· 
See AN, page 5 

New Polish Premier appeals for peace 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) -Gen. cipline and improved productivity. Wojdcch Jaruzelski, Poland's new The independent trade union premier, appealed to workers yes· Solidarity said in a communique it tcrday for "90 peaceful days," war­would strike only as a last resort and ning that continued labor unrest said it was ready to negotiate im· could pitch Poland into civil war. lie mediately. The communique was also rcshutlled the government's top issued after a meeting of union echelon and announced a 10-point leaders, hut a spokesman, Karol program to tackle the economic Modzelewski, said it was not a emergency. response toJaruzelski. 
Jaruzelski named six new Cabinet Jaruzelski, who replaced Jozef ministers and two new vice Pinkowski as premier Wedncsday premiers in the sixth purge of and retains his post as defense minis· government leaders since last sum· tcr, said in a televised speech that mer's strikes that spawned inde­Poland is in the grip of destructive pendent unionism. He outlined an chaos that could lead to "conflict ec t onomic plan to deal with com· and ... the most terrible thing, a plaints on food and housing 
See POLAND, page 5

shortages hut called for worker dis· at Notrt· Dame. Ford along with a class including all tenured femak faculty employced hy Notre Dame after Jan. 1, 1974, filed charges of discrimination in the areas of women's promotions, pay. assign· ments and other t•mployment policies. 
In 1978 a second suit was tiled hy Dolores Frese, assistant professor of English, and a class of all fcmalc faculty members employecd hy the University after Jan. I, 1978. She chargt•d the University with sex dis­crimination in connection with her failure to receive a promised promo· tion to associate professor, a posi· tion which usually carries tcnurc. 
These two suits were consolidated last spring when :t trial date was scheduled for Nov. 22. This trial never materialized be~a usc ofa settlement said to have been reached, though the terms of any such agreement were never made public. The court date was then reset for Feb. 17, a date determined as the last time the suit will enter court. 
The terms ofthe suit now include: 
I) prevention of further disc rim ina· tion, 2)hack pay, and 3) measures to ensure fairness in tenure, promotion and other compensations. Tht· class supporting this suit, which wa~ originally I30 women, has been reduced to 64, SO of whom art· still employed at N<Jtre Damt·. 
Bt·~idcs alleged tt·nurc dt·ficiencies, figures on hiring and enrolling womt·n at Notrt• Dame lag behind the goals set in tht• llnlvcr· sity's first Affirmative Action Plan set nine years a~>. There are 79'5 faculty members at Notre Dame, 104 of these arc women. In 197H· 79, the College of Arts and l.t·tters hirt·d 22 men and eight W(/mcn, the Rusiness school hired eight mt·n and no women, the Engineering college hired ten men and one woman, and the Collegt· ofScicnct· hired 22 mt·n and two womc·n. In enrollment, of Notre Dame's total of 6,900 under· graduates, 1,700 arc women. 
Tenure has been awarded to somewhat less than 60 percent of the faculty of79'5 at this time. Ofthe I04 women faculty members, better than half are not in positions that could cvcntually lead to tt·nure, and eight are included in that 60 percent which currently are tt:nun·d. These eight women arc: Joan Aldous, 
See SUIT, page4 

In The News' opens at Stepan Center 
By RICH FISCHER 
News Staff 

Mardi Gras 1981 opens tonight for a nine-day stand at Stepan Cen­ter. Due to the bishop's decree that gambling should not be used for fund-raising, this could be Mardi Gras' final appearance. 
Mardi Gras is the longest continuous annual social event at ND, tracing its origin hack to 1947, when the first Mardi Gras dance for charity was held in a building which stood on the present site ofGrace and Flanner halls. The original one-night format was quickly expanded into a three day affair, and with the advent of gambling in the late 1960s, Mardi Gras grew into its current nine-day duration. 
The situation which threatens Mardi Gras' future is a unique one. Although local law-enforcement agencies practice statutory ncglcct ofgambling laws in regards to charity-benefiting events, the bishop Or St. Joseph County has announced that no gambling will be allowed after this year. A petition protesting this ruling, drawn up hy the cur· rent Mardi Gras committee members, is available to be signed in both the North and South dining halls. 
The booth theme this year is "In the News." l.arry Pohlin, construc­tion coordinator, reported that there will be 20 structures at Mardi Gras, encapsulating news events from the creation ofthe world to lwo Jima to the stockmarket crash of 1929. As in previous years, a judging committee composed offaculty members will be awarding numerous prizes on the final night of Mardi Gras. Prizes to he awarded include best booth, best theme, best architecture, artwork, and special effects. 
WSND will be broadcasting live from Stepan Center for the duration of Mardi Gras, and will be giving away records the entire week. In addition to their programmed broadcasts, WSND will be playing host to 14 bands, two magic acts, and two comedy acts during the week. The ND Glee Club, the rock band Crystal, and The Rubber Rand will be among those performing. 
Mardi Gra~ Chairman Dan McKernan noted that there will be admis­sion specials, as well as theme nights, throughout the entire festival. The Obseroer will carry a complete daily listing of these events. 
Ticket sales manager Bill Weber reported that sales arc proceeding well. Anybody who sells a book oftickets, in addition to receiving free admission to Mardi Gras for the entire nine days, will also have their name placed in a drawing for a trip for two to the Bahamas, and a trip for two to Colorado. Students arc reminded that ticket books may be turned in throughout the week at Stepan Center. 
Last year :'.1ardi Gras raised S24,000 for local charities, and this year McKernan foresees even greater profits. Local organizations which will receive monies from Mardi Gras include Sr. Marita's Primary Day School, FLOC, CII.A, and CANCO. McKernan predicts possible revenues of S36.000 if all goes well. 
-----------------~~--~ 

~~~Sc~==~==j=~~~~~========~======================F=ri=da=y=,F=e=b=ru=ruy==I=3,=1=9=8I===p=ag=e=2~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 

A busboyarrestedfor allegedly setting the killer fire at the Las Vegas Hilton confessed he started the fire and said it happened while he was engaged in a homosexual act, a police detective said at a news conference yesterday. Philip Bruce Cline, 23, told officers that during the homosexual act a drape was lighted accidentally by a marijuana cigarette, said Lt. John Conner, chief of the Metropolitan Police Department's homicide division. "He indicated he had been on the eighth floor and had been with another homosexual and was engaged in a homosexual act when the draperies were set on fire next to the elevator," Conner told reporters. "He says it was lighted by a marijuana cigarette." Conner said Cline, who initially told authorities he tried to douse the blaze Tuesday night, made the confession Wed­nesday, the second time he was questioned by police in connection with the fire which claimed eight lives. "Certain statements were made by Philip Cline at 2 a.m. the morning after the fire," Conner said. He said detectives felt "the story he was telling could not possibly be true," and they brought him in for questioning again late Wednesday afternoon. "He was brought back in and given a polygraph (lie detec­tor) test which he failed miserably," Conner said. "He then admitted he had set the fire at Las Vegas Hilton Hotel." Earlier Thursday, Cline was ordered held without bail byJustice ofthe Peace Earle White, Jr., pending arraignment in the next week on eight counts of murder and one count offirst-degree arson. The probable cause hearing was held via closed-circuit TV, with Cline in the jail and White at the nearby Justice Court. -AP 
China told the Geneva disarmament conference yesterday it will not join nuclear test ban agreements before the Soviet Union and the United States agree on a "drastic reduction" of their nuclear arms arsenals. Chinese Ambassador Yu Peiwen said that a test ban "would only serve to maintain and consolidate the nuclear super­iority ofthe superpowers." "Only the drastic reduction by the super­powers of their nuclear arsenals can provde the necessary prerequisite for a comprehensive nuclear test ban and help to reduce and remove the danger ofnuclea war," he told the 40-nation meeting. 
-AP 
A firm ofLondon architects proposes a fourth bridge 

across the River Thames modeled after the original London Bridge 
which was destroyed in the Great Fire ofLondon in 1666. The bridge 
would cross the river adjacent to the existing London Bridge and in­
clude offices, shops and an entertainment complex including a skating . rink. The original London Bridge was built in the lOth century and replaced several times after fires. It was lined with wooden houses and shops. The last replacement was dismantled stone-by-stone in 1968, sold and reassembled at Lake Havasu City, Ariz. -AP 
A conservative group, hoping to re-establish a House internal security committee to investigate terrorism in the United States, is claiming that "trained Communist revolutionaries" were among the 125,000 refugees who immigrated from Cuba last year. A fund-raising letter signed by Rep. Daniel Crane, R-Ill., says President Reagan needs help "in closing America's 'open door' to bomb-throwers, spies and revolutionaries." He added, "For all we know, terrorists are plotting subversive attacks right under our noses." Throughout, the letter is sprinkled with references to Reagan's need for a new House committee, though Reagan himselfhas made no mention of such a need. The committee would be a successor to 
HUAC 8 the House Un-American Activities Committee -the subject ofprotests that activities such as HUAC's Hollywood blacklist hearings were "witch hunts" that denied Americans their right to free expres­sion. As a result ofmounting criticism, HUAC was renamed the House Internal Security Committee, and eight years ago it was dismantled altogether. Efforts to revive it have failed, but Crane and other con­servative activists hope the conservative gains in Congress will open the door to reconsideration. Wiley Thompson, a spokesman for the FBI, saic' it is true that there have been a number ofCuban governmen• agents 'Jund among the refugees, but he declined to say how many and he would not comment on the council's allegation that "Castro agents" were responsible for refugees' unrest. The Crane letter was written and sent by the Council for Inter-American Security, a Washington-based conservative group that will receive whatever funds are raised. -AP 
Philadelphia's Friday the 13thClub members, starting at 8:13 this morning walked under a ladder, ate a breakfast of 13 items, broke mirrors, spilled salt, opened umbrellas, joked about black cats and lit three cigarettes on one match. The ceremony finished up at 10:13 a.m. "There's no such thing as bad luck," said Philip Klein, the 74-year-old club president. "People ought to have more courage, show more guts, and do more things, and not hide behind excuses, or superstitions." Klein is a retired newspaper publis­her, former college president and city planner who formed the club 45 years ago and is the only original member still active. The club has 13 members and meets every Friday the 13th to give life to the idea of triskaidekaphobia -fear of the number 13. Klein said the Friday the 13th Club "started as a gimmick" in 1936. "I was in the advertising business at the time, and it was a good way to take people to lunch and entertain customers," he said. The fuss over Friday the 13th, accord­ing to some references, stems from the fact that Christ was crucified on Friday, and 13 men were present at the Last Supper. There is also a Viking fable in which 12 gods were invited to a banquet but 13 showed up and one was killed. So the superstition says that ifyou must dine on Friday the 13th, don't eat with 12 others at the table. Legend says the first or last to rise from the table will die within a year. -AP 
Sunny andwannerwith a high in the lo~ 30s. Mostly clear at night. Low in the low to mid 20s. Sunny and a httle warmer Saturday. High in the upper 30s.AP 
Be strong, oh heart 
Let us forget for a moment that today is Friday the Thirteenth. That it should fall the day before Valentine's day is a bad omen of the highest order. Let us instead concentrate on Valentine's Day itself, work through our feelings about it, and perhaps reach some kind of cat­harsis designed to free us of the angst many associate with it. 
Remember, dear reader, that St. Valentine's name it­self comes to us from the Latin valere, "to be strong." Whatever the cards may hold for you tomorrow, be strong, and considt:r the following: 
Much paranoia and trauma is associated with this day, and for no good reason. The trauma, it seems to me, befalls mainly women who, hoping for some flowers, poetry, candy or even a call, receive none. The paranoia is an aftliction of males who wonder on and off throug­hout the day who they have let down, forgotten, or for whom they have caused a "trauma" of the sort just described. Bad vibes. 
A female friend of mine describes Valentine's Day as "elitist." She expanded on that analysis: even when you get something, she pointed out, a friend or someone close to you does not, causing fresh grief and hand­wringing. The other women down the hall, meanwhile. display their cards and (gulp) flowers in a not-so­subtle parade ofattention. It is, she maintains, a day that separates lovers from loners the "elite" from the forgo ? ten. 
Emotions of love and loneliness are the stuff of novels and short stories be­cause they are easy to relate to and naturally expand themselves into a plot. But I think the problem here is easy to identify, and its solu­tion may be found in two dif­ferent dimensions. First, there is a problem with reducing love or kindness to a material standard and narrowing the time ofits ex­pression to a single day. A day is finite and its limits restrict the infinite depths to which romance may reach, and flowers and candy, in a sense, put a price tag on love. To hinge your emotions on a day or a gift is shallow at worst, dangerous at best, and unreasonable at least. Divorce your Valentine's spirit from the material realm and you will rest easier. 
The second, and more interesting, dimension of this problem concerns the mental posture one takes into the day. It is too often defensive, rather than offensive. The Valentine's venturcr sits in her room and waits for a situation to occur over which she has absolutely no control. Not a good strategy. What, pray tell, is the proper strategy for dealing with the day that causes such torment? ' 
The strategy I propose is two-fold, and it takes into account both dimensions of the problem we have just explored. First, don't expect any thing Instead, take the clear sky or the smile ofa stranger for your gift. Second, 

week, all month, all year if necessary. Fall in love, then, with the world. 
The alternative I propose makes sense on a number of fronts. I submit that Valentine's Day, no matter what the commercialists lead us to believe, is a day to celebrate the impulse of spring in the hush of February. It is a break in the dead of winter that reminds us of better days to come. You can see it in the sky when, at dusk, the sun is just a shade more orange and hangs out just a bit longer before night falls. It is a suggestion of Chaucer's "sweet April." If you were forgotten on Valentine's Day, blame it on the weather -who feels like being romantic in February -and content yourself with the fact that you are rushing headlong into spring, 
when romance is expanded into a whole season. And remember: Things 
ould be worse. We will all recall that other famous Valentine's Day celebration when a cast ofseven charac­ters in Chicago were remembered in a way they would rather not have been. The St. Valentine's Day Mas­sacre, as it was later labeled, stands as a monument to the irony ofthe day, and the day is nothing if not ironic. It is ironic that a day designed to spread happiness spreads trauma instead. It is ironic that we fear a day we should look forward to. 

P.~ Look forward not to some grandiose expression of undying love or ceaseless romance. Look forward instead to a day on which you can smile at a stranger or wink at an unlikely candidate for attention. Look forward to a day on which you can spread love rather than expect a material expression of it. Look forward to celebrating the arrival ofspring at an implausible moment in a snowy season. 
That the thirteenth falls this year just before Valentine's Day does not have to be a bad omen. The very fact that you are reading this Valentine's warning today gives you just enough time to call the florist and do something nice, thereby taking the offensive and salvaging another dreaded day. Take the oJI'cnsive tomorrow by smiling and you will have succeeded in salvaging two days in a row. 
bserver Note--...., 
The Observer is looking for new writers. Call the 
be offensive. Smile at strangers and spread the pure sort office at8661, 1715 or 7471 for more information. 
oflove that belongs to the day, and keep spreading it all 1..---------------------..1 
The_Qhserxe 
Design Editor ................. The 'early' Scoop Design Assistants .............. Tom O'Connor 
Kevin Korowickl, Mike Monk Layout Staff............................... Laura Davis Mary Ellen Ewen, Earl Rix, Stephc!J 
Abowd Typesetter............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor ........................... Margie Brassil Copy Editors ......................... Besh Huffman 
Carol Mullaney Features Layout.................... Molly Woulfe Sports Copy Editor ............. Skip Desjardin 
Gary Grassey Typist .............................. Marilyn Broderick Systems Control ..................... Marty Hynes ND Day Editor........... nyan Ver Berkmoes Adllesign ...............................Woody & Co .. Photographer ..................... Michael Tuohy Guest Appearances .................John Macor 
Tim Neely, Tunes by WTOM Missing Classlfleds, Panama Red 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


. -· 
. ~· ·~ 
•.. 


The Observer , Friday, February_13, 1981-page 3 

Publicly denies sentiments 



Haig foresees Polish invasion? 
WASIIINGTON (AP)-As labor unrt·st int~:nsifit:s in Poland, Secr~:tary ofStat~: Alexander Haigjr., is making it known -guardedly and unofficially -that he considers Sovkt military intervention to be in­evitable. 
For tht· record, Haig's position is that Soviet intervention is neither imminent nor inevitable. Privately, however, llaig believes a kind of creeping anarchy is taking over in Poland, creating an intolerable situa­tion for Moscow. 
The analysis that supports Haig's view is this: fact·d with a dear threat of losing control over a key East 

Balanced by 1983? 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -Despite President Reagan's plans for sweep­ing cuts in federal spending, the ad­ministration acknowledged dwindling confidence yesterday that Reagan can fulfill his promise to balance the budget by 1983. 
Congressional sources said the ad­minis! ration appears virtually to have given up hope of eliminating rt:d ink from the federal ledger by 1983. The sources, who asked not to be idcmificd, said Reagan's economic aides now arc indicating that 1984 probably is the earliest the budget can be balanced. 
One congressional economist briefed by the administration said of a halanct:d 1983 budgt·t, "I don't think that's realistic at this time." 
ND ROTC~s participate in TV commercial 
A combination of I 0 brothers and sisters participating in the Army ROTC program at the University of Notre Dame will be the subject of a one-minute public service an­nouncement to be aired by more than 300 televison stations across Am~: rica. 
filmmakers from the New York advertising firm of N.W. Ayer will spend three days on the campus this month while filming the unusual number of brothers or sisters study­ing at the same university who are benefiting from the Army's scholar­ship program. Both indoor and out­door locales will be used in the film, which Is expected to be seen by 10­milllon viewers. 
Notre Dame has been a leader for several years in the percentage of Army scholarship winners selecting European satellite, Soviet leaders will decide they have no choice but to intervene, despite the disruptive consequences for Soviet relations with the United States anti the rest of the world. 
This view is winning increasing acceptance at the State Department. What is surprising is that Haig has allowed it to float to the surface, and thus to the press and the public. Some officials fear that the reports could remove one restraint to inter­vention -eliminating Soviet fears that the United States will be surprised by the movement into Poland by Soviet troops. 
Publicly, administration spokes­men were saying they hadn't given up on reaching their goal in 1983. But they conceded this had become exceedingly difficult. 
The president "hopes, and I un­derline hopes, ... that we could do it as early as '83," said press secretary James S. Brady. 
Remindt~d of Reagan's campaign statement that his economic plan "will give us a balanced budget by 1983, and possibly by 1982," Brady said: "When we talked 1982, that was before we had economy insipia, which has set in since September." 
Brady defined "economy insipia" as "when programs aren't cut." 
the University for their advanced 
education. It is one of only 13 
campuses In the nation offering 
ROTC programs for the Army, Navy­. Marines, and Airforce. 
Current family members in the 
Army training program on the 
campus arc James A. and Thomas J. 
Calcagninl, Hamden, Conn. (888 
Ridge Rd.); Mark D. and Deborah A. 
Kirkland, San Francisco, Calif. ( 1324 
B. Kobbc Ave.); James J and john]. Herrmann, Hamburg, N.Y. ( 4827 Kennion Park); Michael A. and Beth 
A. Holloway, Marlton, N.j. ( Blbbsboro Kressen ), and Michael 
R. and John C. Sees, Security, Colo.(510 Leta Drive). Their brot­her, Ralph Sees, is a 1979 Notre Dame graduate who is in service at Fort Riley and may return for the fil­ming. 

In an editorial Wednesday, the 
; Washington Post referred to "American officials (who) are expressing semi-publicly their ex­pectation that the Soviets will invade," and said, "But do the offi­cials muttering it understand the im­plications of what they are doing? ... They are handing Moscow an excuse to invade." The Post did not name Haig as a source of these "semi-public" state­ments, but last weekend NBC news carried one of the first reports, saying -without direct attribution -that Haig was known to believe that Soviet intervention was in­evitable. Shortly thereafter, a mid­level official at the State Department said about Haig that it is "known to be his view" that the Soviets will in­tervene. 1-laig's spokesman, William Dyess, says he has discussed these accounts 
with Haig and, "I deny those now." 
There are "not two positions," one public and one private, on whet­her or not Soviets are likly to invade Poland, Dyess said. He said it is "the position of Secretary Haig, the posi­tion of the Department ofState, and the position of the United States government" that "a Soviet inyasion of Poland is not imminent; it is not inevitable and it is not justifiable on any ground." 
After the first denial and two days after talking with Haig, commen-I tator joseph Kraft began his ' Thursday column with the state­ment: "Senior American diplomatic officials believe a Soviet military thrust into Poland has become in­evitable" and went on to discuss the views ofthese officials at length. 
Asked about the Kraft column, Dyess said it doesn't reflect Haig's views, although he noted he hadn't discussed it directly with Haig. "It will be my assumption he did not say to that individual anything different" from what has bt·en said publicly, he told reporters. 
~::-)'·~~~~~~~~ 

NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION'S SPRING BREAK IN DAYTONA BEACH 
L-----~-~--------------------~ 
LAST FEW DAYS TO START SIGNING UP 
ND Accounting Dept. provides free tax aid 
By DAVID SARPHIE 
StaffRefXJrter 

For the past eight years, students in Notre Dame's Accounting Depart­ment have been providing free tax aid to low-income members of the South Bend community. According to the assistant director ofthe Notre Dame Tax Assistance Program, James Wittenbach, the program not only benefits the community, but also gives practical experience to the students. 
The organization, which was originally a part of the law school, provides free tax service to those who can't afford professional help. "We have about 40 seniors -all Accounting majors -and two or three MBA's working in the program," Wittenbach said. "They really do a great service to the com­munity. Last year they accounted for over $200,000 in tax refunds," he reported. 
The students are divided among nine centers in the South Bend area. Practicing CPA's arc also available at one center for more complex finan­cial situations. 
Wittenbach noted that the program's SWAT squad (Students Working at Taxes) makes several an­nual visits to Rochester, Indiana. "This began five years ago, when a tornado almost totally demolished that town," he explained. "We sent a 
********************************** 
********************************** 
* ; *w ; =E0*  SHAt<l: WITH US FLOC MASS  !* * ! *  
;  U  FEBRUARY 14, 1981  ::  
~  4:30pm LOG CHAPEL  i  
~  celebrant: Fr. Pat Sullivar'  :  
*  *  


PINOCCHIO'S PIZZA PARLOR friday &saturday night special ,9-1 2 pm $2.00 pitcher 
with a purchase8-9pm of a large pizza .. 
$1 i50 pitcher $1.00 
I 

--,-~--------------------,
I $.50 OFF SMALL PIZZA I 
--~-------------~-------~ 
: $.75 OFF MEDIUM PIZZA I 
-~+-------------~-------~ 
I Sl.OO OFF LARGE PIZZA•

--J----------------------~
emmons 

expires feb. 28 
8 


limit of one pitcher per p~a 
AT SPECIAL PRICE-­
juniper

....----1'NO COUPONS PLEASE 
THINK ABOUT IT! GUARANTEED TO BE A GREAT TRIP 
group of students down to help them out with their many tax problems. They were so satisfied with our service that they've asked us to return every year since." 
Wittenbach also praised the program for the valuable experience it provides the business students. "I've run fnto former students who have gone on into professional accounting," he said. "They claim this program to be one of the most rewarding experiences of their col­lege career." 
Other universities have similar tax assistance programs, according to Wittenbach. "Many of these school programs have ties to the IRS," he commented. "However, the Notre Dame program is almost total­ly independent. And, as I recently heard, it is also one ofthe largest." 
Buy 


--------~ -~--­
The Observer Friday, February 13, 1981 -page 4 

• fHE GRADUATE STUDEtf UNION 

•.. presents •.~~.., •••,
.... ......
.. .... 
WALT UNTIL Dt\RR··..... 
'

...•. ..... ...... 
STARRING AlJQRE\i HEPBURN •....... Febry_a,Y 13 qQd 14 
..... .. ..
•••at 7,9,11 pm •... 
... ·~-....
•• • Engir~ring Auditorium .. 
• t ~ 



~~•Adm1!sion $1.00~ • • 


IOpm ~'~'­
~c.,.·· (;~ ~ r.....~~

"'~ ~<¢...,
,V:Jo~·· (Q~() 
·&.e'\ •· 
~~ 


tuesday 

Dr. Nicholas Fiore points outa defective tire during his lecture on "Engineering and the Law." (photo by Mike Tuohy) 
ADVERTISEMENT 

IN FOl'R PARTS-52 PAGES HOME-DELIVERED PART I-GENERAL ~EWS-15 PAGES ALL THE NEWS WORLDWIDE 
LARGt:STCLASSifo'IED VOLl'Mt: 
(21 :1) 970-49!!6 :-.IORTHROP AIRCRAFT DIVISI0:-.1 OFFICE 

\'OL. LIX DAILY FIVE CENTS 
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS FEBRUARY 28 
Newest Northrop Fighter Advances F-5 Family 
March 24, 1980 ­Hawthorne, California The new generation of :'-lorthrop's F-:J family of low cost tactical fighter aircraft. the F-:1C, was announced at Hawthorne toda.v. stepping up a nearly 20-_vear evolutionary program for the compan:-·. The single-engined F-:1C was conceived 
to meet world defense needs toda.\· and through the 1990 · s, and offers an affordable, supportable defensive system that keeps 
pace with the changing requirements for national securit:-·. February 1981 
:'\orthrop Aircraft is still designing and 


building high-perl~nnance airc1~ft toda~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J 
...Suit 
continuedfrom page 1 
sociology; Sheilah Brennan, 
philosophy; Tang-Trai Le, Law 
School; Ellen Ryan, psychology; Kat­
herine Tillman, general program; 
Elisabeth Fiorenza, theology and 
josephine Ford, theology. 
Ford and Fiorenza are still actively 
involved in the case along with 
Dolores Frese. Fiorenza was granted 
permission to enter the Ford case as 
an intervening plaintiff and was the 
only tenured woman to join Ford in 
the class action sex discrimination 
suit when it was presented. 
The history of the suit involves several areas of discrimination. Frese has reported that her problems began when she re­quested to be considered for tenure earlier than usual in order to coor­dinate her career with her husband's and make plans in reference to famiy location. Frese said that upon her re­quest the tenure committee assured her that there would be no question that she would receive tenure in the English department, but asked her to withdraw her application until the end of the year so that tenure could be granted to a male colleague. Frese refused on the grounds that the fami­ly decisions had to be made. In six years at Notre Dame, Frese was denied tenure four times. 
The suit filed by Ford, now con­solidated with the Frese case, began when Ford, noticing that male theol­ogy department colleagues with les­ser qualifications than she were being promoted, asked to be con­sidered for promotion too. In an in­terview with the National Catholic Review, Ford reported that when she told the department chairman of her request, she could "literally hear him gasp. It was obvious it had never crossed his mind." Ford was denied tenure three times. Ford also dis­covered during the course of the suit that she was the lowest paid member of her department. 
In the 1 5 years that there has been women faculty at Notre Dame only eight have been tenured and only one has ever been promoted to the rank of professor: Elisabeth Schuller Fiorenza, the third woman actively involved in the suit. Fiorenza's com­plaints include sexist comments which interfere with her develop­ment as a scholar along with the claim that the University is using a "revolving door policy" where women are concerned. 
Fiorenza says this happens in two ways. She reported to the National Catholic Review that she has seen young women hired for lower paid faculty positions while their hus­bands, also academic professionals, are not even considered for posi­tions. It is then assumed that these women will soon leave tqe Univer­sity to follow their husbands, ensur­ing a turnover among teachers. 
Fiorenza is convinced that, in her case, she was offered a job to interest her husband and they were recruited as a team. She requested tenure early because of this cir­cumstance and was granted it. She then emerged as a outspoken feminist, after which her husband was denied tenure. Again she feels the University assumed she would leave to follow her husband. Her husband, however, now teaches at Catholic University in Washington 
D.C. and Fiorenza commutes twice a month to be with him and their daughter. 
Fiorenza also noted that while both of them were employeed by Notre Dame they were individually paid less than others on the faculty. 
Fiorenza also noted that while both of them were employeed by Notre Dame they were individually paid less than others on the faculty. The department chairman ac­credited this to "distributive justice." 

in the compan:--'s mile-long, modern com­plex in Hawthorne. California. For -to 

Ifyour interests are in TECHNICAL ENGI­.\·ears. we've promoted the people associ­
NEERING which includes AERONAUTI­ated with our products and furnished 
CAL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, one of the finest benefits packages avail­
COMPUTER SCIENCE, MATERIALS SCIENCE, or MATH. (B.S. and M.S. level).
able in the industJ;.· including educational See Northrop today for your tomorrow.
reimbursement for emplo~ees in an ac­

credited graduate stud:-· program: a con­Contact the placement office to schedule an
venient savings plan -for ever.\· dollar 

appointment with a Northrop representative.
invested, :'-lorthrop contributes ;)() per­cent: and generous vacations -including a week long Ch1istmas holiday. In addition 

Aircraft Division 
to a creative work environment .vou'll 


If you can not meet with us at this time, please forward your resume to: 
Employment Office Dept. 1221/80 TS/UND 2815 El Segundo Blvd. Hawthorne, CA 90250 
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H 
enjoy Southern California's year round recreational paradise. And._ ~orthrop's recreation club sponsors man~· enjo_v­

DRTHRDPable activities such as skiing. golf and fishing. 
Making advanced technologywork. 

The Observer Friday, February 13, 1981. -page 5 
• • .Poland .AN 
conllnuetl.from page 1 
When asked about a 90-day strike fratic:idal war." moratorium, he reiterated his pre­
The four-star, Soviet-trained vious stand, saying, "We don't want general said in a speech to Parlia­strikes." ment, 'I am calling on all trade uni­Walesa said the union was for­ons with an appeal. Let us stop all ming an 11-member national com­strikes. I am asking you for three mittee to take "complex, unpopular months of honest work, 90 days of decisions" in the coming week. calm, to put some order In our Details were not immediately economy." provided. 
Ue asked Poles to "put their con­Walesa, who directed negotations fidence In the government," and said with the Communist government his I 0-polnt plan Is aimed at improv­during last summer's wave ofstrikes, ing food supplies, housing and has appealed for moderation in the 
health services, strengthening price recent labor turmoil. controls, higher farm production The new premier warned in his and aid to tht· old and infirm. speech that "forces ofevil have been 
lie said the coming months would attempting to penetrate Solidarity see "broad dialogue" and that the and lead it toward false positions, Roman Catholic Church woul have a anarchy and derailment of role in solving the crisis. soc:ialism." 
l.ed1 Walcsa, leader of Solidarity, lie said members of the new uni­
had no direct response to the speech ons, the first in a Sovct bloc country 
from Gdansk, where the union's na­frt·c of Communist Party control, 
tional leadt·rship was mt'l'ting. should not let themselves be 
Walcsa s;tid he had not heard it. pn·ssured by such forces. 

-----RNs
CHICAGO: YOUR KIND OF CITY 
1 would like more information regarding nursing opportu­nities at Augustana Hospital! 
Name Address Citv---------State ____ ZiP'----­
Phone___ ----------------------­School_---­rc~t & Shi~t Desired ___________ 

i continuedfrom page 1  
around.  You  become  a  people­ away  someone's alcohol  but  you  
pensive," she admits.  person; a perfectionist. You define  can't take away their food.  
There are other costs, too. Loneli­ yourselfthrough other people."  Anorexics who refuse to eat can  
ness Is common with bulimarexlcs,  Anorexics and bulimarexics can't  be force fed Intravenously If neces­ 
says Eileen, because they will only  say no to anything. "So," Eileen says,  sary.  Bulimarexics  usually  aren't  
binge  alone  and  they  binge  "you get stepped on and used."  hospitalized because they are always  
everyday.  "My parents fit the classic role of  able to. get the food they want  - 
Binglng  and  purglng  also  have  anorexic-bulimarexlc  parents  al­ sometimes by threatening the nurse,  
ph  ysical  effects.  The  vomiting  most  perfectly,"  Eileen  says.  Her  ·says Eileen.  
damages  the  throat  and  stomach  father wanted her to go to college, to  Eileen  would  like  to  start  a  
lining.  be a doctor, to be athletic, to bethin.  bulimarexic discussion group,  but  
Eileen began as an anorexic. She  Eileen used food as a way to con­ hasn't  had  much  luck  In  getting  
said most people with eating disor­ trol her parents. She began starving  anyone together.  
ders go along a path of anxiety and  herself and when people pressured  Soon,  Eileen  Is  going  to  start  
rejection until coming to a sroad between anorexia bulimarexia.  cros­and  her to eat she would force herselfto throw up in order to stay thin. "I wouldn't care if I lose all my friends  seeing a hypnotist who has ex­perience with eating disorders. She thinks it will work. "I want to be nor­ 
Rejection plays an important role in both diseases. "I can remember the day I was rejected -everyone can," says Eileen. "It (the rejection) turns your life  if I could stay thin," she says. Treatment for bulimarexia Is dif­ficult. Unlike diseases such as al­coholicism, one can't remove the object ofthe addiction. You can take  mal. I'm ready to stop. I need the one push over the last hump." "You know," she says softly, "I ;wouldn't wish this on my worst ,enemy."  







DAYTONA BEACH 
acaans a~a~en raaarts 
How about bringing us your ideas? 
The best education after college is 
being able to put your talent to work. 
To do this, you need an environment 
that is open to your ideas. One that 
can offer you challenge, responsibility 
and diversity. Scott Paper can do just 
that. 
Because of our size and diversity, we can offer capable people an environment in which to develop their potential. Talented college graduates will find career growth op­portunities in finance, marketing and marketing research, accounting, engineering, research and development. management science and industrial relations. 
That's why you should learn more about Scott Paper, a multi-dimensional, Fortune 500 company. For over 100 years, we have been pro­ducing a variety of quality consumer and commer­cial paper products. 
We are a company open to ideas. How about bringing us yours? 
There is a lot more to Scott than just paper. 
CONTACT YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE FOR INFORMATION 





SCOTT 
SCOTI PAPER COMPANY 
An equal opportunity employer, MlF 


The Observer Friday, February 13, 1981 -page 6 
In lieu of Rowers... A Valentine's Special 

"It's signed, 'Guess Who'!" 

Written byMolly Woulfe & PatByrnes 

"Wrong holiday, stupid!" "C.O.D." 

Illustrated byPatByrnes 
0 
0 



"Roses are red, Violets are blue, "My momma saidI had togetyou one, so I gotyou one w!lt•a skutt.fl.

T~ vet'$e is old, 

on it."
..fiJ;
~~So areyou!" 

;t~~-...!'Jjijiiiiiiiiiii'"?*'""""*:lljiiiilif"c~ " -4 --'\~  •  I  ~--iie::~i;;;i~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii­!!I' : -; ;.;.~~·· i='iiiF!,-::.•ii·"iiiiiiiii;;' ·~·­ 
•.,;:.~  
- 

t..._---------------------------------------~-----­
Friday, February 13, 1 981 -page 7 


Features 
The Waif of St. Valentine's Neglect 
S
t. Valentint•'s Day, for me as a child in public grade school, was my personal pink-hearted Good Friday. For a week, kids would slip envelopes into a box, now fancy with sentimental wrappings, that the graham crackers had been delivered in. In a grim hour after noon on the 14th, one's pride would be crucified as the teacher called out the names on the envelopes In a voice that sounded to unpopular kids like the noise ofa hammer beating nails on the head You knew long beforehand who was going to get the lion's share of valentines: girls named Emily, Consuclo, and Arlene; boys named David, Arnold and Lester. They knew it too; you could see them eyeing the valentine's mail box as though tht· day had been invente to honor them. You hated them for their smugness at being adored; you couldn't stand watching them wait for the classroom to pay them homage. 
Rev. Robed Grif&n Features Writer 

To A Lonely 
GOd 
You knew you would get a small clutch ofc;~rds: the in· evltable one you would get from the child who had drawn your name, neutral in its message because the sender didn't n·ally want you as her valentine; then the other card you would get from the girl who sent valentines to everyone, whether she liked you or not, because her parents were social climbers. There might be canis from children whose mothers sewed on Tues· day with your mother; and you knew you would get a card from your best friend, because you had already seen that t·ard, and in fact, you had helped pkk it out. 
Anything more was purely bonus. You would sit help­
lessly at your desk, praying that the teacher would sum· 
mon you again, arranging and re-arranging your four or 
five envelopes in a way that would make them look as 
though you had a huge stack, while David and Emily 
shuffled up and down the aisle as though they were us· 
hers. Good-looking and sought after, they even got 
cards from the kids in the lower grades as idols the 
st·hool looked up to. Their mothers would have to help 
them home with all the cards they got. I, on the other 
hand, would hide my pitiable collection, but my mother 
would find them, anyway. "Why, how nice," ~he would 
say, "h•Jw perfectly nice ofjulie Madden to send you 
such a sweet card. May I see tht: others, dear?" IJow 
coulu I tell her that that one little valentine from julie­
whose fatht·r worked for my father -rcprcscntcu the 
grounuswcll of my popularity? 
Ofall the experiences in grade school showing you 
how little you were admired -like waiting to be 
pkked when sides were chosen for the spelling bee or 
as a member on the teams that would shoot baskets in 
the gym-St. Valentine's Day was the pit ofhumilia· 
lion. Bau as It was, I merely wanted to die. But, I im· 
agincd, for Mildred Blodgett, it must have been worse. 
Nobody in the whole world wanted Mildred Blodgett as 
a valentine, I was positive. Her father was the garbage 
man, and she was ~uch a plain little thing, she looked 
like a leftover that her father had collected from the or· 
phans' picnic. 
No boy ever wanted to walk home from school with Milured Blodgett. She went homt· hy herselfso much that no schoolchild could have told you where she ac-. tually livt·d. I think we Imagined she lived in a house on the cdgt· ofa dump, and her front yard was llttt•rcd by·· broken-down wagons with tht• garbagt· still in them. 


T,> tdl the truth, everyone kit sorry for Mildred Blodgett, but we just knew wt· couldn't do much for her. Sht· was a slum child, we felt; the rest of us were children ofthe Depression, and tht·re wa.~ a uifference. Slum childrt·n deserved our pity, but not our intert:st. You didn't interact sol'iaily with a slum child. 
Wht•nt·vcr I thought ofd1n·rfully killing myself as a way ofescaping from Emily Smaha's Cupid's Day sweepstakt·s, I would think with pity of Mildct:d Blodgett, tht· waif ofSt. Vakntint·'s nt·gkct. I mt·ditated with solac.:c on Mildred from tht· tlrst grade to tht· ti>urth grade, the yt:ar I dt·cidt·d I would, mysdf, send ht·r a valentine. 
Tht· cards wt-re handed out at tht· front ofthe room as the teacher picked them one by tlllt' out of the box. The names heard again and again with boring rt·gularity were Emily and David, but also Arkne and Consudo, Lester and Arnolu. Names like mine wert·thrown in likt· punctuation at the t·nd ofa pagt·, as though I were a small, token dtizen whost· mail had bt•t·n ddivered to the wrong house. 
That year, in the timrth gradt·, a new name -to 
everyone's surprise -st·emnl to heau tht· list. Tht· 
name was Mildn·d Blodgett. Emily and David hal.! to 
wait their turns as Mildn·d dominated tht· mail call. 
Time after time, she made the trip to the front of the 
room untl she must have had ovt·r li>rty t·ards with 
sweet messages piled up heli>re her. A tiJUrth-grader 
who eould be trusted to o>unt reliably, announced the 
statistks aftt·r school: Emily, twenty-nint· vakntines; 
David a disappointing seventeen. 
Whether it was ;t plot of mothers, who nudged their 
urchins into being kind to an unloVt·d peer, or whether 
it was the kids themselves who, in private and separate 
dedsons, deeided to send the eovert cards of the ht·art, 
I never knew. Maybe the saint to whom the t(:ast day 
belonged intt•rt't'dcd on behalfofa waifso that she 
might have the satisfaeton of knowing she was wanted. 
"Blessed art· the neglected, for they shall inherit the 
day." 

I was very happy forM ildred. I wonder if that day was 
not the first day of tht· rest of her life. 
Emily Smaha grew up to be the valcdktorian ofour 
class in high school. Mildred Blodgett grew up to be our 
class beauty. llcr father did quite well in garbage. lie 
became one ofthe wealthy men ofthe town as an instal­
ler ofsewage disposal plants for eorporations. lie was 
one of the few people I've ht·ari.l of who made money 
during the Depression, eventually hiringjulie Madden's 
father away from my father as his general accountant. 
After school, on that St. Valentine's DAy in the fourth 
grade, I smiled at Mildred Blodgett in a way that should 
have told her that the large lacey card t·osting a quarter 
had come from me. Just the slightest trace ofa furrow 
movci.l onto her brow. Then she shook her head, 
though I hadn't spoken a word. I felt as though a great 
offer had been made, and refused as unacceptable, in 
one of those silent rituals by which a girl can stop you 
before you've even begun. It struck me how easily the 
Mildreds join ranks with the Emilys in looking down on 
a boy who got only four valentines, and one ofthose was 
from his sister. 
That is why I have always known that St. Valentines's 
Day can he the cruelest feast. 

Irish Dratnas & 1Country Wife' 
T
omorrow evening will mark the first appearance of the Irish Theatre Guild ofthe Chicago Council of Irish Arts in the :'llotre Dame/Saint Mary's community. With the sponsorship of the :'IID/SMC Irish Club, the troupe will present two plays by Ireland's famous playwright, Sean O'Cascy. The Shadow ofa Gunman andBedtimeStory will be performed at 7:30p.m. in the Little Theatre at Saint Mary's. 
Shadou•ofaGunman is a drama set in a Dublin tcne· mcnt, where a poet and a peddler mistakenly become involveu with the IRA. Accori.ling to Council President Tom Kcal} 'O'Casey's anti-war message is very clear, e~pecially at the end of the play." 
In contrast, Bedtime Story is purely comedy. The one-act play takes place in a Dublin boarding house. The two main t·haraners,JohnJoe Mulligan and Angela :'llightingalc meet to engage in less than proper extra· (:urrit'ular at:tivities. Fearing hi!> landlady will find An· gda in hb room. Mulligan schemes to get rid of his girlfriend. Joanit' Lamar will dirct:t both productions. 
The group, comprised ofmany native Irish actors, is \\'l'll-respected in Chiago acting drclcs, and enthusias­tit' about performing at Saint .\1ary's. Tickets arc S2 at the door. For more information, contat·tjohn at .341-12. 
The first ofthrcc produtionson the ND/SMC Theatre mainstagc is the Restoration comedyTheCountry Wife by William Wychcrlcy. Set in the 1670's in fashionable London and written in cla~sical verse, the play offers a new challenge to campus talent, as well a~ a challenge to Guest Dircetor Frank Canino from Toronto, Canada. 
Canino's directing ercdits range from Shakespeare to musicals and operao;. He ha.~ directed at the Catholic Cnivcrsity graduate sehool, Cirde·in·thc·Square, and Gene Frankel Workshop a.o; well as in may other profes­sional situations. lie is also a professional actor. 
"The Country Wife is a very complex play that has had varied critical reactions through the eenturics. The reactions arc based on the issue of morality and im­morality,"commentcd Canino. "In fact, at one point the play was changed complctcly...all the "improper" de· ments were dropped, all the sexiness. The shift in opinion has taken plaee mainly in the la.~t generation." 
The play, prombed to be "eolorful, hilarious, and 
naughty" will be pcrtiJrmed Feb. 20, 21, 26, 27, and 2H 
in O'l.aughlin Auditorium at H p.m. 
;'llote;Pippin tickt·ts arc still available for tomorrow 


Bronx Cops 
'(]ort Apache, The Bronx is a film perfect for those 
.l'unwilling to be brave and partake of an Urban ~ 
Plunge. The film Is shot In a portion ofour foremost city, 
New York, known as The South Bronx. This urban bat· 
tleground looks worse than most of Hiroshima did im­' mediatly following World War II. 
Tht· 111m Is ba.~ed upon the real-life experiences of 
two cops who worked In the rt·al4lst prednt·t (known as Fort 
Apaehe) in the South Bronx. Year after year, this portion of America 
t'onsistently had tht· highest crime rate; policemt·n assignt·d to it 
worked In a virtual warzont·. 

The film tran·s the llvt:s ofthe two officers both on and off duty. To 
this end it sut:t't:eds admirably -trouble crops up In unt·xpc:cted 
areas. 

The 111m's major weakness Is the prt·st·nce of Paul Nt·wman. 
"What!?! Paul Nt·wm;~n ;1 weaknt·ss!?!" In this film, yes. Newman's 
presence has llollywood's publlelty machint· workln~ overtimt·. 
Newman portrays a third-generation Irish eop namt·d Murphy 
(what else would you call an Irish eop? ). The hype has Murphy made 
out to be an uneonventionalcop bucking the system. In n·allty, 
Murphy differs mostly because he is reasonably intdligent, tht· only 
t·ntity ht· "buc.:ks" Is a c.:ardhoard·stuffed superior. 
Newman's portrayal is good; however, the role Is not a dt•mandlng 
one -the only real challenge beingto aet like a lowt'r·c.:lass Bronxlan. 
This Newman does well, unfortunately one is left with a nagging 
feeling that Paul Newman looks too cute to he an embattled cop; hc:'s 
not fat, he doesn't have that weary look ofone who's fought a war, and 
his uniform fits like a custom-made designer job. 
Murphy's partner Is another typical ethnic:. This tlmt· neweomer 
Kt·n Wahl plays the part ofCorellI, a young Italian with a ht·althy 
libido. 

Ken Wahl diKusses a scenefrom "Fort A/Jm·be" u•ilh Featurt•s critic Ryan Ver Berkmoes. (photo by Molly Woulfe) 
Wahl's story is slekt:ningly suc.:c.:essful. lie quit his job pumping gas in Chkago "to go to l..A. and warm up:O• l.ittle more than a year later he has complctt·d his third motion picture, this time t'O·starring with Paul Newman. Ills method ofacting is quite natural, himself having no for· mal training. 
In person, Wahln>mes aeross as a young man still a little hewil· dered by it all, trying to ding to his familiar pa.~t. Aln·ady sut.Tt•ss Is taking it's toll, Wahl is now d10osy a.~ to what parts ht· takes, and it is doubtful he will remain living in the poor end ofl..A. 
On screen, Wahl is good. Ills naturalness eomes aaoss a.~ just that, giving him a believability many actors only dream of. CorelIlls a career eop getting settled into a job that will be his destiny. lie wor­ships the older Murphy, and struggles with the virtues ofhis flancn·. A scene in whieh he tinally "ha'i his way" with the girl while her parents sleep in the next room is excellent due to the wealth ofvisual imagery. 
!.ike Murphy, CoreIIi is not a eomplcx charaeter, dt·manding little of Wahl. 
One character is simple to the point ofembarra.~smt.·nt. Ed Asner plays a "by the book" captain namc:d Connolly. Imagine Lou Grant yel­lingat Ted Baxterand you have what Asner was eallt:d upon for. All tht• secnes involving Connolly have him being tough. No reason is given why this man Is motivated to toughness. A.o;nn .is a top at.·tor who's talents arc under-utilized here. 
Highlights ofthe film include a riot M'ene in whkh Connolly has a mob gassed for minimal reason, a scene involving the "smoking out" literally ofa fence, and a ride Murphy and CoreIIi take with a bus-load ofsocial misfits. P01m Grier plays a prostitude who excmplifles every· thing your mother warned you about. 
Fort AfJaL·he disappoints because ofthe shallow character dt·velop· ment. Thc:rc seems to be no reason why Murphy and his girlfriend go out, yet they do. 
A key plot line involves a cop throwingan incensed Puerto Rkan off' a roof. We arc not sure why the eopdoes this. Worse yet, Murphy wit­nesses this and must decide whether to rat on his eohort or not. This evolves into the ecntral plot of the film, yet all we get of Murphy's in­ner turmoil is to have Newman sit around and look pensive. 
Overall, Fort Apat:he, The Bronx is not a happy tllm. Pt·ople die fre­quently, and little hope is given for one ofour countries greatest embarrassracnts, the South Bronx. This is how it should be, since there is little hope for the area. The sweepingshots ofdestrut.·tion and decay cannot hc:lp but move even the cynical. Viewed simply as a life­style drama, the film is good. The movie is worth one's money for the soeial relevancy ofit. As a story however, the: film .is weak and In need of.more development. 





Editorials 
Friday, February 13, 1981 -page 8 
Making the move to the sun belt? 
Yesterday's New York Times reported that the Census Bureau has estimated the nation's population center to be the city of DeSoto in Jefferson County, Mo. This marks the first time that the center of population has crossed the Mississippi River. 
This may seem to be an insig­nificant fact to you, unless you live in the area that passed for the nation's population center in 1789 -the Northeast. The Northeast, as the new census will no doubt retlect, is losing its population as industry and the people who run industry move to the nation's sun­belt, particularly the Southwest. 
This past Christmas the Carter administration issued a report on federal aid to the big cities of the East. The report, conducted by Georgians who were from the sunbelt themselves, concluded that federal aid was being wasted 

Magazines found periodically 
Last week I was in the Notre Dame library finishing up some homework that had accumulated from the first week of the semes­ter. I happened to finish fairly early and was suddenly left with that rare condition of having absolutely nothing to do. I decided that rather than going back to my room and killing some time by watch­ing television, I would do something a little more educational like go downstairs to the periodical room and read some magazines for an hour or two. I figured that I would go find something light and en­tertaining like Rolling Stone, Life, or even People magazine. 
Much to my surprise, I not only was unable fo find a copy of Rolling Stone, Life, or People on the shelves, but I couldn't even find the current issue of Time or Newsweek. I was aware that most of the back issues of the magazines were bound and scattered throughout the library, but I didn't have time to go running through the whole library just to read a couple of magazines. I continued my search by looking for a recent copy ofT. V. Guide. I figured that a fourteen-story library would surely subscribe to the single most popular magazine in the United States. Well, I discovered that they did not carry the most popular magazine in the U.S., but I noticed that they did have the current issues ofDiscount Store News, Psyc­hopharmacology Bulletin, and The Newsletter ofthe Indiana Oral History Roundtable. I also found a number of such stimulating periodicals as Quaker History, The Library Transactions of the Bibliographical Society, and of course Olkumenish Rundschau. 
I'm not saying that the average college student doesn't read these types of publications, it's just that not too many of the students I know have copies of magazines like Hoosier Banker or The American Transcendental Quarterly lying around their dorm 
Doonesbury 
.. ANIJ 8~I LMve 7lJI¥lYRJR. 
7JE5lJtTE!S, I JIJ5TlA/IlNT TO 7HANK. 7H&WHfUwomJ FOR. CIJ.IIJEMNINGf lfl.AN ~USING Me ASANINNOCI3NT 
8IJTUDCN'T YOU 71-IAT5 A VIOOUS ORIGINALL.Y IMP/?/· LJe, MI5TCI?.! I 5IJietJfOR. 7ll..YIM7 WA5 IN IRAN A5 70 At?RANr3£ OIL AN {)fq)JNA/zy 
on these cities and should subse­quently be cut. Quite a stir was caused in Philadelphia when Thatcher Longstreth, head of 
Philly's Chamber of Commerce (the public group most respon­sible for attracting business to the area), agreed with the commit­tee's findings and publicly en­dorsed. the report, His remarks quickly were sent across the na­tion via the Associated Press, causing quite a furor in the City of Brotherly Love. 
In a burst of regional pride, the city's leading newspaper The Philadelphia Inquirer immediate­
ly attacked Longstreth on its editorials page characterizing him as a local "joke." Perhaps the most vicious attack came from the pen of the Inquirer's ace political cartoonist, Tony Auth, who drew a caricature of 
Pat Pitz 

rooms. I agree that some of the magazines could be very helpful to the average student at Notre Dame. Periodicals like Artificial Intel­ligence, Suicide and The International Journal ofGroup Tensions would certainly become very popular during finals week. Actually, Suicide is a very fine publication; it's just a shame that most people don't get the chance to read it more than once. 
As I walked down the aisle where the periodicals were shelved, I came across a magazine entitled Victorian Perodicals Review, which features short articles written during the Victorian period. I expected to see a man wearing a white wig, dressed in full Victorian attire, sitting at a table reading the latest issue of the magazine. Next, I encountered a periodical called The Canadian Journal of African Studies. Somehow, I had a strange feeling that somewhere in the periodical room I would also find a publication entitled The African Journal ofCanadian Studies. 
Since my luck with the magazines wasn't very good, I decided to try the newspaper st:ction. I walked over to the newspaper shelf and observed that there were only four back issues of the Chicago Tribune, but I noticed that they had a large stack of issues of the Hindustan Times and two different newspapers that were written in Chinese. Since my Chinese wasn't up to par, I decided that I had also better forget about reading a newspaper. Finally, I gave up and went back to the magazine section to find a nice, relaxing magazine that would take my mind off school. The closest I could find was The Journal of Leisure Research. I was beginning to get upset so I picked it up, went back to my chair, reclined back, and completed my evening with about two hours of "leisurely" reading. 
Pat Pitz is a junior from Aloha, Oregon. 
Garry Trudeau 
YfAH, BtfTI'M NOT

7HEN WHY /JJfltr /JIFFEI<ENC£ /J05 
ANY 
(1)Mf.€NT//'K3 1/NTIL­

/JI/J YOU PAR-7HitTMAte'£? GIMME. 
HOOWR

A{){f!IE INTO A8ftfAK, Ffi.J.M! IW: 
.MHI'/) 71E CHANe£
Sff}RJE:S,

TH& (J)JN-JU5TSPENTOveR. f(}() 
70 7AJ)( wA(j(XlJ
/f)fJKE? 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Managing Edltor............···········:··················Mack Rust 
Longstreth attired as a cheer­leader shouting anti-Billy Penn slogans and proclaiming the ad­vantages of leaving the city he is supposed to be extolling. 
The next day Longstreth wrote to the paper with his reply. Though he is an easy figure to ridicule (his trademark being his 
penchant for wearing argyle socks and his political career having been less than successful), Longstreth made some solid points in defending his position. First, he said that if the big cities of the Northeast are to avoid the financial problems that have plagued them of late, they, the cities, will have to solve them. They can not be forever depend­ent on federal monies. Second, he listed what he believes to be the reasons for the population and in­dustrial exodus: Philadelphia has a high crime rate, strong labor 
unions, a high tax on these who work in the city but live in the sub­urbs, and expensive energy. This last point is particularly troublesome given the cold win­ters which have been the norm for the last several years. Anyone who spent this past break in the 
East will testify to the sub-zero temperatures and the new popularity of alternative heating sources like kerosene heaters and wood-burning stoves. 
The sunbelt, of course, has no weather problem. Unions, par­ticularly in Southern California, do not predominate. The crime rate is lower, and energy is, on the average, cheaper. These are the 
reasons, according to Longstreth, for the population exodus and his belief that the big cities should give up their infatuation with federal hand-outs and begin to 

Features Edltor.......................................Molly Woulfe Pboto Editor ...............................................John Macor 


Michael Onufrak 
confront the real issues. Not surprisingly, these reasons are also behind the shift in the popula­tion center. 
But the problems of New York and Philadelphia may someday be the problems of Phoenix and Dallas-Fort Worth -and ul­timately DeSoto, Mo. The weat­her, barring another glacier or some other terrestrial disaster, 
will always be a consistent ad­vantage for the sunbelt. But low crime rates and cheap labor are two phenomena for which there is no guarantee. As more and more industry moves to Atlanta and Houston, more and more labor 
unions will follow. It will not take too long for these to raise the price of labor to the current prohibitive rates which are the standard in Boston and Bal­timore. As the populations of San Diego and Tempe increase, big city problems like high crime and pollution will inevitably follow. And make no mistake that these cities are growing. While a naive 
easterner like myself envisions the sunbelt to be full of small towns (like DeSoto, Mo.) and wide open spaces, the population shift is occurring mainly in the cities, not the small towns, of the sunbelt. Witness Dallas which al­ready has the nation's largest air­port (in terms of size, not traffic) and almost overtook Philly as the nation's fourth largest city. Also keep in mind that it was not so long ago that Los Angeles beat out the City of Frank Rizzo and the Flyers for the number three spot. 
In short, there are a number of problems whieh affect big cities whether they be in a warm clime .or a cold one. Unless the people of Albuquerque and Tucson want to address the problems of Washington, D.C., and Atlantic 
City in the next few decades, they should encourage the federal government to stick with the northeast a little longer. At the same time,. some heed should be paid to Thatcher Longstreth. Philly needs to re-evaluate its tax on non-residents who work in the city and Mayor Bill Green should seek some sacrifice on the part of 
the labor unions. Unless the big cities take steps to solve their own problems soon, industry will con­tinue to flee to the sunbelt. If that happens, the population center might not stop its westward jour­ney at DeSoto, but continue until it reaches the coast. 
Michael Onufrak has lived in Cleveland, Buffalo, Rochester, New Haven, and Philadelphia to name just five. His column ap­pears on the editorials page each Friday. 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Editorials Edltor..............................Michael Onufrak University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessanly Senior Copy Editor.....................Mary Fran Callahan reflect the policies of the administration of either instiruuon. The news is reported Executive News Editor.................. , ......Tomjackman as accurately and as '?bjectively as possible_. Edito_ri~ls represent the opinion _of a News Editor ..........•......: ............................. Lynne Daley majority of the Editonal Board. Commentanes, optmons, and letters are the vtews SMCExecutive Edltor..........................Macgie Brassil j of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and SMC News Edltor......................................Macy Leavitt ' the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Sports Edftor..................................... , .....Beth Huffman 
Business Manager .................................:Greg Hedges Controller........................................................Jim Rudd Advertising Manager...................................Mack Ellis Circulation Manager ............................Beth Hackett Production Manager...........................)ohn McGrath 
~----------------~-----­
------~~-----------------------~~l 
The Observer Friday, February 13, 1981 ...,.... page 9 





P.O.BoxQ 
------------------~-~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Cleaning 
up dirt 
Dear Editor, 
Thi~ letter concerns the article 
Maid.1· 11111 really a necessity. 
I agree with some of the letter hecausc it is hard and prohahly embarrassing to the one whose room i~ dirty. And I think the old vacuum cleaners should he replaced with new ones. like the ones in the Academic Buildings. 
Of course everyone has a right to ~heir own opinion and so do I. I'm not one of these older maids. but there arc a couple of things I don't agree with, especially the comment about the maids in the "real world." Let me tell you 1hat no one has a right to say or put anyone down for thejoh that they do. I just want you to know that I wouldn't want a mate from Notre Dame because they don't know what the real world is all about. I also saw some of the dirty work they can do~ who would want to marry someone like that? 
The point I'm trying to make is that I'm important, and, no mat­ter how much better you think you are than me, all that matters is that we're all the same in God's eyes and that is what really is im­portant to me. I'm not here to please you or anybody else, for that matter, so you wrote the wrong thing when you wrote 
about the maid.  N.D. grad marrying  a  
Signed, A Notre Dame Maid  


Real world includes 
. 
crrme 
Dear Editor, 
I think I have read just about 
one "Why doesn't the ad­
ministration protect us from off­
campus crime?" letter too many. 
Fr. Hesburgh was right~ itis the 
real world out there beyond An­
gela Boulevard, and the slice of 
the real world that off-campus 
students experience is often not 
so pleasant because of the fact 
that-due to their limited incom­
es, limited mobility, etc. -they 
are forced, along with everyone 
else in the same socio-economic 
situation, to live in areas like the 
northeast neighborhood, which 
tend to he plagued with problems 
such as run-down property and, 
yes, crime. 
The University should be con­
cerned about the off-campus 
crime problem, but it cannot be 
held responsible for the situation. 
Most of us have the choice be­
tween living in the relatively 
secure, sheltered campus en­
vironment and putting up with its 
attendant rules and regulations or 
moving off campus. Indeed many 
of those living off-campus now 
are there precisely because they 
felt that University regulations 
didn't give them enough respon­
sibility in the areas of kegs, parie­
tals, etc. By moving into the "real 
world," however, students ac­
quire responsibilities not just for 
their social behavior, but for 
themselves and their property 
which preclude behavior such as 
strolling down the streets at 2 
a.m. in a drunken stupor and leaving $1500 stereo systems in unsecure and/or unattended houses, making themselves easy targets for rip-offs and worse. 
I feel that the hard-pressed lo­cal police are doing their part as it is. There are 100,000 other people and dozens of other neighbor­hoods in South Bend aside from the Notre Dame off-campus stu­dent community. It demonstrates an extremely elitist attitude to im­ply that somehow this small frac­tion of the South Bend community should warrant more than its proportionate share of at­tention from City Hall. 
I don't mean to belittle the off­campus crime situation, because it is serious, but there is no simple solution. Crying to the ad­ministration for help, even to the extent of purchasing or subsidiz­ing large blocks of houses for a "student neighborhood" in one of the more ridiculous sugges­tions, is immature. Crime in the Northeast neighborhood can probably never be eliminated, but I think that it can be alleviated by students working together and with neighbors, landlords and the authorities. Furthermore, by using a little street-wise common sense, I think that 0-C students can make the best of, and maybe even learn to appreciate, a social and economic reality that one just doesn't experience in Melrose Park, Shaker Heights or Grosse Pointe. 
Everett Shockley 



Enough 
•


lS enough 
Dear Editor, 
Enough is enough. It is time for our school newspaper (sic) to Jay aside the false notions the staff, especially editorial staff, has of its product and come down off of its self-constructed pedestal to face reality. Margie Brassil' s Inside Monday, Feb. 9, has prompted me, as she has urged us all, to break my three-year silence and respond to the shortcomings and misconceptions I feel The Ob­
server is laboring under. 
I don't mean to single this writer out~ it's almost too easy ~but she herself, in an article on journalistic deadlines, admitted she may be in the wrong field. (She is the same writer who defends apathy, saying she hasn't the time for special interests, but she obviously has the time, al~ though it can't take long, to turn 


out  Inside  columns  regularly).  suggestions, the staff is certainly  eternal.)  sincerely  hope 
First,  she  asserts  that The  Ob­ "hired  and  paid  to  publish  a  mistakes aren't repeated, and that  
server  is "uncontrolled... by eit­ paper."  the editors have the courage  to  
her school's (N.D., S.M.C.) administration,". an assertion Mark Rust, another Inside regular, made in his Observer-as­a-school-of-journalism column.  I'm not here to solely complain; I have a suggestion, too, as Ms. Brassil invites us all to do. Column space should be devoted to a greater number of writers,  print this letter ~ a complaint invited by Ms. Brassil to all stu­dents, with attendant sugges­tions. I can understand why this letter  
But don't try to refuse to pay that Observer fee on your tuition bill  especially those not connected or employed by the paper, in the  might not be editing seems  published, typical of  such this  
and  expect  a  sheepskin in four  Inside space and in  the  unmen­ paper's  track  record,  and  the  
years. (Multiply your fee times 7,000 to give you an idea of the ini­ tionable sports columns.  issue of length would be an easy excuse. If it is published, I ap­ 
tial funds available).  I write this to complain, and to  preciate the chance to respond to  
Next, she labels The Observer a  suggest, and to tell you why I read  Ms. Brassil's request (echoed on  
"non-profit  organization  larger  very lillie of the paper, hoping to  the editorial page) and urge others  
than  many  small  town  at  least  provoke  some  thought  to do so when the need appears, in  
newspapers,"  but  I  can  assure  among  the  Inside  writers  and  the hopes of provoking improve­ 
you that, after first-hand observa­ editors of the paper. I don't dream  ments in the near future, as a new  
tion of the work habits of some  of  any  concrete  changes  editor comes to the fore.  
employees,  people  are  making  (although, like the transition to a  
money. Contrary to Ms. Brassil's  new administration, hope springs  Matthew F. Golden  


Where have all the parking lots gone? Art Buchwald 
One of the biggest mysteries in Washington is that that, because it fits your image of Republicans. But I although President Reagan's administration has put a know many Republicans who are willing to car pool. freeze on government hiring, and Carter appointees The only problem is they live in areas where it's very have been summarily dismissed, and civil servants hard to find their own kind to pool with." have retired, there are still no more parking places for "Why doesn't President Reagan freeze everyone's government employees than there were before. parking place?'' I suggested. "That way, no one could 
The Reagan people are befuddled by this. get someone else's spot. If someone quits, retires or is One Reagan official has been studying the problem fired, you could just put a limousine in its place." and trying to come up with the answer. "What kind of limousine?" 
"I have a theory, though I can't substantiate it, that "The ones that we reserved for Mr. Reagan's many Carter administration people took their parking friends when they come to town." places with them when they left," he told me. "We might do that, but it won't solve the mystery of 
"But that's illegal," I said. "A parking place is why, when you make the government smaller, the government property." demand for government parking places is constantly 
"I know that," he said. "But every time I go into a increasing." government garage there is a car in every place. The ·•oK, I'll tell you why. When the Democrats con­parking places all seem to be accounted for." 
trolled the government, there were so many 
"Maybe the Carter people lied to you about how employees that most of them parked outside in the many parking places were available in the first place. streets. As you keep cutting down the size of In that way they could have taken one with them­
bureaucracy, more and more employees have an op­without your knowing about it." 
portunity to park inside. As soon as one department "I've though about it, and I've asked the FBI to run 
hears that another department has been eliminated, a check on the Carter people to find out if they have a 
they immediately take over their parking places." parking place somewhere else that doesn't belong to 
"That makes sense, but why then aren't there more them. But the FBI says they have no mandate on a 
parking places available outside than there were parking place to indicate it is government property." 
before?" "Maybe the Carter appointees are still using their 
"Those places are being taken up by lobbyists. parking places in government buildings while they're Every time you have a new administration, you find a job hunting," I suggested. lot of lobbyists' cars around government buildings. "We thought of that too, but unless the car has a They have to get to know the new people." Georgia license plate, we can't be sure if the vehicle "I hadn't thought of that," he said. "Then you belongs to one of us or one of them." don't think the Carter people took their parking places "I tried to think of some other explanation. "I don't with them?' know if this could be the problem, but Republicans are "Even if they did, I wouldn't be too tough on them. more afluent than Democrats, and it's possible they You may do the same thing with your parking place aren't car pooling like the Democrats did. If every when you leave in four years." Republican drives to work alone, then you might be filling up three spaces for every one the Democrats Art Buchwald is a syndicated columnist who ap­used." pears from time to time on The Observer's editorials This got him very angry. "You would like to think page. 
-------~-----------­
.. 
r 
I I 
t
, 
.. 
r • 

The Observer==== 
. T0 da~==============F=r=id=ay='=F=eb=r=u=ary=1=3=,1=9=8=1==pa=g=e=1=0 
Campus 
FRIDAY, FEB. 13 

•'5: 
I '5 p.m. -mass and supper, bulla shed. 

•6:4'5 
p.m. -cila, general mn·ting, Iafortune ballroom. 

•7.9,1 
I p.m. -movie, "wait until dark," engineering aud., ~ponsored by graduate, student union..S I admission. 

•7, 
I0:30 p.m. -movie, "dr. zhivago," smc carroll hall, ad­mission S I. 

•H 
p.m. -play. "pippin," washington hall, presented by thl· stulknt playl·rs, admission 


S.2. 
SATURDAY, FED. 14 

•7.9.1 
I p.m. -movie, "wait until dark" l'nginecring aud., sponsorl·d hy graduate student union. S I admission. 

•7. 
I0:50 p.m. -movie, "dr. zhivago," snJC carroll hall, ad­mission S I, sponsored by stu­dl·nt activities programming hoard. 

•7:.\0 
p.m~ plays. "the shadow of a gunman" and "hnltiml· story," little theater, snll'., admissi<m S.2, sponsored hy nd-smc irish dub. 

•H 
p.m. -play, "pippin," washington hall, admission S2, prl'Sl'ntnl hy the StUdl·nt pl;t}'l'rS. 


SUNDAY, FEB.15 

•4 
p.m. -faculty rl·dtal, dar-, lenl' catdlo. harpskhord, mcm. 1 library aud.. sponsor: musk lkpt. 

•6:4'5 
p.m. -ella, general meeting, lafortum: hallroom. 

• 
I 0:50 p.m. -mass and soda!, morrissey hall. sponsored by student alumni rclaiions group. 


Gulf Oil offers generous grant 
Thl·llnivcrsity ofNotre Dame has rel:cived the tlnal 11'50,000 payment of a S I '50.000 capital grant from thl' Gulf Oil Foundation to bl' used toward construction of an energy rl·search laboratory in Stepan <'hemistrv IIall. 
The s·9..\ million fadlity, ex­pl.'l'tl'd to he nuupkted early in 19H2. will nmtain IO(l,OOO square fel't of fl'Sl'an:h span·. oftkl'S. semi­nar rooms. service shops and com­puta terminals. 
Q c ~ = !. 5
11: .. c = 
e 
<" f u
<" "' c 
.." "' 
"' 


Molarity 

i'HANKYOU F-"0~ THIS DINNE~ fO~ VAI.ENT/tJ£ 1~ PAY, MITCH. X M£.itt-J 11-\l nowe:~~ .1li E 

Michael Molinelli 


56-ball 60 Bearing 61 Texas 
Ranger 63 Request 64 Villain's 
expression 65 Spanish 
pot 66 Merchandise 67 Barbara and 
Anthony 68 Last place 
DOWN 1 Swift 2 Repeat 3 -corner 4 Come in for 
the starter 
5 Eastern European initials 
6 Ahwoe! 7 Greatand 
Finger 8 Fans 9 Classify 
10 They tell 
no tales 11 Karenina 12 Activate 13 Grail 
or See • 18 Caesar's 
654 22 Kookie 24 Extinct 
birds 




The Daily Crossword 
All Rights Reserved 

.. u '0 li
-§, .. :::0 Q !; c ~ 2 0 B E
t' c " z
" :::0

5 "5 -~ .c "' c "'.;; ~ :..: " ,!j ~ !: :a i..
! B ... ... 0::" ~ ~ :c " u ; 0 i
> ~ ::0
u u 
u" u :::0 "" 
-a
-6
:c :t: 
ACROSS 1 Have deep concern 
5 Gravy: Sp. 10 Rush 14 Pinnacle 15 Sharp blows 16 Within: 
pref. 17 Ducks 19 Indigo 20 Gin's 
partner 
21 Area for pass com­pletion 
23 Tree 25 Play a 
guitar 26 Deliverer 29 Is present 

33 Field event 35 Trapper's item 
36 Altar announce· ment 
37 Lookdown one's nose at 
39 Except 40 Of musical sound 43 Certain track men 46 Latin or 
South 
48 --eyed 
49 Rage 
51 Eggcells 52 Like a gun jumper 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

26 Corrupt 
city 27 Solo 28 Plays the 
roue 

30 Gold medal Olympic swimmer 
31 -Lane 32 Tennis divisions 33 Armenian 

bread 34 Cut off 38 Broz 41 Arms cache 42 -D. (grad. 
degree) 44 Wheel hubs 45 Quisling 47 Golf links 50 French 
cultural 
site 52 Gremlins 53 Distance 
for Scott orCoe 54 Baker's spade 55 British 

weapon 57 Strong wind 58 Wahine's 
specialty 59 Ski lift 62 Twelve­
months: abbr.

2113/81 
';; c

" 't: i :; i
'Q

~ " c ... ;; .l! .:! Sl c)l ~ 
'2 
" 
" 
i 
"" 
100 percent 90 percent 80 percent 70 percent . 60 percent 50 percent 40 percent 30 percent 20 percent .. 10 percent ... 0 percent 
~ 
N 


~ ~--~---------------------~-~-~--~---~---,--~----~--­

The Observer Friday, February 13, 1981 -page 11 
.. . Broka-w 
continuedfrom page 16 
"I've never had any regrets about passing up my last year ofeligibility," he says. "I've always been taught that opportunity only knocks once. I didn't feel that I could risk playing college ball another year and perhaps being injured." 
"At the time I was considering going to the pros a yt·ar t~arly, the ABA and the NBA were talking about merging. and I was worried that my market value would go down. I wanted to make my parents more com­fortable, and provide some comfort for myselfas well." 
"There was never any question that I would coinc back here for my degree. Going hardship was the best thing for me to do at the time." 
Brokaw played two years in Milwaukee and two more for the Cleveland Cavaliers bdon: hanging up his uni· form. The lift• ofa pro is enjoyable on the court, he says, but the travel and the grind of playing such a long st·ason make it tough offthe court. 
''Jerry West once told me that being a pro ballplayer was like bl'ing a piece of meat. Tt·ams will chew you up and throw you out wht·n you are no longer of any u..~e. That's thc hig difference bctwccn college and thc pros. 
"College coacht·s care about their players. When Diggt-r gt·ts on a player in practice it's bccaust· he is genuindy intercstnl in sel'ing that person succtTd. At tht· proft-ssionallc:vel. haskt·thall becomes more ofa joh than a gamt·." Many people complain ahout the at­titudt· of pro players that look at the game: <L~ nothing more: than work. But Brokaw says that a cert:tin amount of that is necessary. 
"It is a job, after all." he says. "Players arc paid very wdl I(Jr what they do. Personally, I hated the travel i.n­volved with playing pro hall. You might play in New York one: night, get on a bus for the: trip to Philadc:lphia, and havt· to get ready to face a Dr. J and the: Sixc:rs the: VtTy next night." 
"The way I looked at it, though, was that I was getting paid vt·ry well to put up with thost• inconvt'nit'nces. Brokaw plans to put his t•xpcriencc:s to work for players at Notre Dame. 
"I would like to rc:late the thing~ that happt:ned to me to them. I want to tell them about my mistakes, and the ways that they can avoid making the same ones," he says. "I've had a lot of expt·ric:nce with contracts, agt·nts, and matters like collective bargaining that I think arc important for a young player heading for the pros to know. I hope that can help them." 
His playing days are over, Brokaw insists. He turned down a lucrative contract offer this past summer to play in Europe. 
"I made the decision to quit when I left Cleveland," he says. "I decided that the time is come to make some long-range plans." 
Those plans include a coaching career. Brokaw says that he will coach as long as he enjoys it, but that he can't see himselfcoaching at age 65. 
"I spent a year in training at a brokerage firm, and in the back of my mind I have plans to return to that some day. Rut right now the opportunity is knocking for me to get into coaching, and I don't want to let it slip by." 
"I'm enjoying watching my daughters grow up," he says. "Sommer is four and Natalie is two. My wife Renee is planning on working toward her masters degree in communications here this summer. Things are just great." 
Clearly, Gary Brokaw has adjusted to whatever life has thrown in his path, and adjusted well. Now he is using his ability to help others do the same. He knows 
what he wants, and is enjoying the process ofadciving it. What more could a man want? 
Dave Logan races toward another (photo by Mike Tuohy) 
MELODY ALARM WATCH THAT PLAYS AFULL MINUTE OF THE IRISH FIGHT SONG. Set the alarm to play the "Victory March" to remind you of the start of the game or just press to play at any time. Order it now to wear to your next alumni party. A perfect gift for that staunch ND fan you know. The official Leprechaun is pictured on the face of this watch. Quartz, digital watch available in men's or women's style. White or yellow gold. Lighted display. 24 hr. alarm with snooze feature. Also available -Beatie's tunes. Choose from "Yesterday" and "Hey Jude:· Manufacturer's 1 yr. warranty. Satisfaction guaranteed -if this product isn't everything you expect. simply return it in new condition within 30 days for complete refund. Order today. Specify tune, style and color. Only $59.95 for "Victory March" and $39.95 for Beatles tunes. Indiana residents add 4'/o sales tax. Send check or money order. Dealer in­quiries invited. Allow 8-10 weeks for delivery. N.D."VI Wha\ tho' the odds be great all, While her loy-a.l Sons are  or small, march-ing  ~---------------------------,ORDER FORM NAME .................................................................................... ADDRESS ............................................................................ . CITY.......................... STATE.......... ZIP .................... Yellow Gold ............. . Male ................ . White Gold .............. . Female ............. ND Fight Song.......... Hey Jude...... Yesterday ......... ~---------------------------~ ASTA, INC. P.O. Box 1294 South Bend, IN 46624 Old No -tre Dame will win ov -er on-ward \o vic-\o .\  

TO ALL SIUDUI$ I· APPLY_,_ 

...,..lltltitw_ 
.~M....,_,__ U.,.Ullor.-...... ,_,__Ullof-._.. .c.luroll.r........-...:.......... ~_Co)IYUIIof'.._ l'6oloUlhw.......... ~...M,_,.,.. 
~N-UIIor: 

--...&Nior--;.. I 
ClrniW*M/11-.,.r.-.

SIIC1Jx«w1wllil~~o~
~UIIot-..........o:•-.... -~M-.,.r..._ 
ALL_ POSIU. ABE PAID APPLICITIOIS D. J Dllllil1' ALL IIQUIRG 
AID APPLICATJOIS TO JODI •CBATB 
PPLICATIONS for SENIOR BAR 1981-82 




app cat1ons avo e in Student Activities office mon. & tues. applications due Wed. 
~--~ 


____________________. 

---~---~~ --~----------------------­
-~-----------------~---­





Sports .:/:):::::r::=i:~J.ifl:I===:::;:=:b::==========Fr=id::::ay=,=Fe=b=rru=ary=t=3,=t9=B=t==p=a=ge=t~2
by The OhJerver and The ASJoriated Prn.r 
The ND-SMC Ski Club finished in fourth place in InfielderJunior Kennedy has signed a one-year both the men's and women's divisions at the Ohio State Champion­contract with the Cincinnati Reds, thereby avoiding arbitration that ships held at Boston-Mills Ski Resort last weekend. Mike Case was was schedulc:d for Friday. The terms ofthe contract were not released. third after the first run ofthe slalom while Sean Chandler stood at fifth Kennedy, 30, began last season as the Reds' starting second baseman and freshman Mike Maas was in seventh. Colleen Dwyer, a Saint Mary's but lost the job to rookie Ron Oester in the second halfofthe season. freshman, took a silver medal for her combined slalom and giant He batted .277 in 104 games, and drove in 34 runs. Pitcher Paul Mos­slalom runs. -The Observer kau and outfielder Mike Vail are the only remaining Reds scheduled 
for arbitration over salary disputes with the National League club. 
The ND-SMC Ultimate Frisbee Club practices Vail's case will be considered Monday in Chicago, and Moskau's on regularly in Angela Athletic Facility on Wednesdays from 9-11 p.m. Tuesday in New York. and Saturdays from 12-2 p.m. Newcomers are welcome. 
Boston. Red SoxcatcherCarlton Fisk was declared a The Notre Dame fencing team will be home this free agent in a ruling yesterday in Boston. The All-Star backstop took weekend for meets this afternoon and tomorrow morning in the ACC 
his case to arbitration after the Red Sox failed to offer him a contract pit. Coach Mike DeCicco's squad takes on the Air Force Academy in a 
for this, his OJPtion year, before the required Dec. 19 deadline. Had the dual meet today at 3 p.m. and then entertains five visiting schools ­
Red Sox won the decision, Fisk would have been paid a salary in 1981 Detroit, Chicago, Milwaukee Area Tech, Purdue, and Washington (St. 
ofapproxim~Ltely $210,000, making him the 17th highest paid catcher Louis) -tomorrow at 11 a.m. Admission is free. 
in baseball. He is now free to make a deal with any major league dub. 
Friends sometimes question z,our taste in movies. But they Usee themwithyou anyway. 
It sounded fantastic in the newspaper. But only to you. Still, you had to see it, and with a little arm-twisting your friends agreed to 
see it too. 

You've already heard a barrage of jokes about your taste in movies since the curtain came down. And, knowing your friends, it'll go on for weeks. 
So, to make it up to them, ;md show them your taste isn't bad in everything, you do something a little special.Tonight, let it be Liiwenbrau. 


Lowenbriio.Here's to g~!!!,e!!!~!!!!~:p.:y. Milwaukee.Wisconsin 
.. . Storm 
continuedfrom page 13 
well in our next two meets and be extremely well-prepared for our home meet against Purdue. 
"The team shows a lot ofimagina­tion and initiative," she added. "One example is Randy Kelly's twisting dismount from the high bar. I am very enthusiastic about our future." 
The men will next compete at Central Michigan on Feb. 21 while the women are idle until a meet Feb. 28 at DuPage'. The Club's first home meet will be held at Saint Mary's An­gela Athletic Facility on March 7. 

ND honors Devine 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP)-Coach Dan Devine says his plans now that he has left Notre Dame are uncer­tain, but he indicates he expects to be out offootball for at least a year. 
He told about 1,000 persons attending a "Salute to Jo and Dan Devine" Wednesday night that he was keeping his options open. 
Devine is leaving the Irish with a 53-16-1 record and the 1977 nation­al championship. 
A painting by local artist Jim Wainwright showing a collage of Devine's coaching highlights at Notre Dame was presented to the ex-coach. 
"Wherever the Notre Dame fight song is sung -and it is sung in all four corners ofworld -you can bet ]o and Dan Devine will be singing it," Devine said. 
Among those paying tribute to the 56-year-old Devine were the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, Notre Dame president; Coach Vince Dooley of Georgia, whose national champions beat the Irish in the Sugar Bowl; cap­tains ofall six Devine teams at Notre Dame, former players and assistant coaches. 
"Dan, you have given us six ex­tremely exciting and honorable years," said Hesburgh. "We will never forget you around Notre Dame." 
Former player Bob Golic, an All­American linebacker now with the New England Patriots, told the crowd, "The best tribute to Coach Devine is all the comebacks that his teams made at Notre Dame. The players' dedication and drive showed how much we thought of him." 
Dooley noted, "Dan, you are leaving as a great coach, and you have done it as a gentleman. You have done it with class .. You have done it with integrity, and you have set an example for all other coaches to follow." 
Devine responded, "I don't know where]o (his wife) and I will be, but when you play Louisiana State at the beginingofnext year and you attend Mass before the game, there will be two old friends going to Mass also, and we will not only be praying for your well-being but for you to win. I couldn't do that as a coach, but I can do it now." 

THIS SPACE CXJNTRIBUTED AS A PUBliC SBMa 

The Observer Friday, February 13, 1981.-page 13 
"Big State" pits runners 
By MAIT HUFFMAN 
Sports Writer 
The: Indiana Big State mc:c:t begins 
tonight and, as usual, Big Ten power 
Indiana University is the favorite. 
"There's no doubt they are the 
best team in this meet," says Notre 
Dame's sixth year coach Joe Piane. 
"In addition to some real blue chip 
athletes, they have great depth. They 
are a perennial power in the Big 
Ten." 
Besides Indiana and Notre Dame, teams from the other three Division I universities in Indiana -Ball State, Indiana State and Purdue -will be pn·scnt. 
"We're not going down there with tht· attitude that we're not going to win," adds Plane. "We can dominate in tht· middle tlistant·es, and we should gt·t strong performances from people who arc just coming around." 
Each of tht· schools In the live­
team meet boast outstanding ath· 
lctt·s. These samt· teams also competed in tht· Indiana Big State cross country meet hdd this past fall at Notre Dame. However, the out· 
standing runner from that meet, 
Hoosier junior and three-time all· 
American jim Spivey will not be run· 
nlng due to thigh and ankle injuries. 

Indiana still has a host of great 
performers, though. Included is Pat 
Bush, a 600-yard dash runner, and 
freshman sensation Saunder Nix, the 
top high school quarter-miler in the 
nation last year. Hoosier freshman 
Dave Volz already holds the Big Ten 
indoor record in the pole vault with 
a leap of 17·9. 
Purdue's Boilermakers are blessed with a good sprinting corps and an improved distance program. Tom Bogcnschultz and Bill Shuey have already run 8:';3 and 8:';9 respectively indoors in the two-mile this season. 
The Cardinals of Ball State Univer· sity also have a number of good sprinters and a fair group of middle distance runners. Bush, a star in the 600-yard race, will be a tough op· pont•nt for Notre Dame junior Jacques liady. 
"Indiana State is definitely the most Improved team at the meet," says Plane. Tht· Sycamores of Terre Haute also have an excellent two· miler in Chuck Deford. Irish senior co-captain Chuck Aragon sees this meet as a step up in com· petition which should help the team performance. "We've run in some good dual meets but this is a step above, so everyone should be pus· hing harder. Indiana should really test us," said the Los Lunas, New Mexico, native. 
Aragon, who currently has the Irish season best In the half-mile, mile, and thousand yard runs, and who has qualified for the NCAA championships, is seeded first in the thousand and second in the mile for the Big State meet. 
The Notre Dame lineup will feature the same individuls that have appeared for the Irish in the last two meets at the A~C. which Piane's squad has won. 
"We'll need competitive perfor· mances from a number of guys if we're going to place well in the meet," says Piane. "Some of the guys who will have to do well are Dave Bernards in the high hurdles, Rick Rogers in the halt:mile, and John Fil· soa and Andy Dillon in the two· mile." 

Gymnast rookies shine as club opens season 
ByJOHN MURRAY 
Tht· Notre Dame-Saint Mary's <iymnastic Club opened its season last wt·ekend In a multi-team meet at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio. Brian McLaughlin was the highest scort·r for the Irish in the men's dlvl· sion while Denise Mcllugh paced tht· lontl women In her second col· lcgiate meet ever. 
"We gained a lot from this meet," said McLaughlin, the club's presi· dent. "It exposed the new members to colkgiate competition and gave expt'Cicnced gymnasts the oppor­tunity to perform their new routines. 
"Our whole season is leading up to our first home meet ever (to be held on March 7)," he continued. "And this weekend's meet proved to be very valuable in contributing toward that end." 
The men who competed for the first timt• were Bob Yonchak (high bar), Mitch Moore (rings), joe Poj· man (parallel bars) and Scott Fortman ( tloor exercise). In addl· tion, Randy Kelly performed all­around in his first college meet. 
Jill Origer (vault) and Rita Kosclka (balance beam) were first· time competitors for the women while Laura Back ( tloor exercise) and McHugh (all-around) were in their second meet. 

"The team performed very well, though slightly below their poten· tial," said Roberta DcPiero, the women's captain. "We had first meet jitters and were very nervous about competing with teams as good as In· diana State and Ball State. 
"We were plagued by last minute injuries and an overall shortage of people. If we had filled all our posi· lions we could have quite possibly had the highest score of the dub teams." 
DePiero competed all-around for the ND-SMC dub while Patty Larkin performed on the uneven bars and tqe balance beam. Ed Barrett also competed in the men's high bar. 
"We have a very young team which has Improved dramatically in the last semester," said Coach Jan Galen. "I expect that we will do very 
See STORM, page 12 



INSIDE INFORMATION ON A CAREER IN ADVERTISING 
Now you can get professional help! 
A leading advertising agency 
executive who has recruited many college students into the business, many of whom now hold major jobs in the field, has written a 40 page booklet "PLANNING A CAREER IN ADVERTISING:' Now for the first time you can get sound advice on proper courses to take in college, and learn the ins and outs of applying for a job in an advertising agency. Learn the types of jobs that are available, and tips on how to get them! To get this helpful guide send $3.00 to Court Communications, Inc., 15 Perry Court, Armonk, NY 10504. 


an 
SUXDAY MASSES AT SACBIJD HEABT 
campusministry 
5:15pm Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, O.S.O. 
9:00 am Sunday Rev. Tom King, o.s.o. 
10:30 am Sunday Rev. James Schwartz, O.S.O. 
12:15 am Sunday Rev. John fitzgerald, O.S.O. 
7:15 Vespers Rev. James Schwartz, O.S.O. 

SEND ME PLANNING A CAREER IN ADVERTISING I


Ir---------------~ 
I  Name_  · ---­ 1  
1 Address_  _  I  
I  City  State  I  
I  College_  Zip  I  


~---------------~ 

~­
1 
I 
Friday, February 13, 1981 -page 14 
All classrfred ads rrust be recerved by 4 45 p.m.. two days pnor ro the rssue 1n whrch the ad rs run. The Observer offrce will accept classlfreds Monday through Frrday. 10·00 arT' to 4·45 p.m All classrfreds must be
Classifieds pre-pard, erther m person or through the mad. 
DON'T WALK ALONE!!!  LOST:  RELIGIOUS  MEDAL  IN  ROCKNE  LOST--A  SILVER  BRACELET  WATCH-CALL  
NOTICES  GET AN ESCORT!!! Student Escort Service-On-Call Sun to Thurs 7  MEMORIAL ON THURSDAY, 1/29. SEN­TIMENTAL VALUE. CALL BARRY AT 2140.  TERESE AT 277-8037 REWARDSUU  
to  Midnight. Call 6283 (OBUD) At the ND  LOST:  ONE SET OF FOUR KEYS ON RING  
PROFESSIONAL TYPING. Term papers, theses, etc. Tape transcription. Last year's same low prices. All work guaranteed. aardvark  Library I 0 to II :45 pm. All student Volunteers. USE IT!!!!!! DON'T BE AFAID TO CALL!  LOST: BLUE DOWN JACKET AT SENIOR BAR WEDNESDAY. PLEASE CALL BARB AT 41­4711.  WITH LEATHER TAB ATTACHED. LOST LAST SATURDAY. PLEASE CALL MARTHA AT 2872 IF FOUND.  
automatic solutions. 289-6753.  USED & OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS bought, sold,  LOST:  Men's Gold Watch. Call 234-3301  or  I lost my dark brown leather gloves on Tu -~s­ 
ND football photographs needed for splashy  searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. Tues-Sunday, 12­ 8927. REWARD.  day. If you find them, please contact Chuck  
football book. Play-action, sidelines, fans,the works. Color, b/w. Any football era but must be able to identify. Fee per photo used. Photo credit given in book. Sub-mit contact sheets or portfolio to Icarus Press, Box i I, Notre Dame (291-3200)  6. 1027 E. Wayne (One block south of Eddy­Jefferson intersection) Do you need money, clothes, and excitement? Let me train you to be a Beeline stylist. Make 18-? an hour and get J400 free clothes. Call 674-6122.  LOST: GOLD MEDALLION WITH PICTURE OF JESUS ABOUT SIZE OF DIME. LOST FRIDAY NIGHT BETWEEN CARROLL HALL PARTY ROOM AND MORRISSEY HALL PARTY ROOM. CALL TRISH 41-4645.  8705. FOR RENT Available for next school year: 2 five-bedroom houses, near ND, lease, deposit, 234-2626.  
NEW JERSEY CLUB BUS-THE NEW JERSEY CLUB WILL BE RUNNING BUSES FOR SPRING BREAK. THE BUSES WILL DEPART MARCH 13 FROM THE CCE AND WILL ARRIVE IN EAST BRUNSWICK AND N.Y.C. RESERVATIONS  Will do typing for reasonable rates. Call 287· 5162 ------------. [ LOST/FOUND I  LOST: PAIR OF BIJICKMEN'S GLOVESATTHE UCLA BASKETBALL GAME. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL 1284.  NEAR ND. SPARKLING I BR CONDO. NEW WASHER-DRYER, CARPORT. KT. APPL, LAKE, POOL, CLUBHOUSE. 259-9589 AFTER 5.  
MAY BE MADE ON SUN., FEB. 15 at 7P.M. IN LA  DAD PICKED UP WRONG OVERCOAT AT J.  For  Rent:  Large,  partially  furnished  home,  
FORTUNE BALLROOM. A 173 FEE MUST BE  Found: a pair of red down mittens on shuttle.  P.W IF YOU FOUND ONE OR LOST ONE CALL  alarm system available, four bedroom. Also,  
PAID AT THIS TIME.  Call(SMC)5196.  2140  homes for summer rent. Call Tim at 283-8702.  


Nowcomes Millertime. 

WANTED 

Will pay U for Boston U G.A.'s on Feb. I 0. Call Tracey 5206 (SMC) 
Needed: Ride to Houston for ~pring break. Will share the "usual"' Call Kathy ( 41-4291. 
Need ride to lndpls. Can leave Fri 2/13 or Sat. Call Pam I 361 
THE NEW JERSEY CLUB IS RUNNING A SPRING BREAK BUS TO N.J. AND N.Y.C. COST WILL BE 73.00 ROUND TRIP. SIGN-UPS ARE ON SUNDAY FEBRUARY 15 AT 7:00P.M. IN LAFORTUNE BALLROOM. BRING A CHECK OR CASH. DON'T FORGET! 
NEED RIDE TO BUFFALLO ON FEB 18 OR 19th PLEASE CALL MATT AT I787 
Need a ride to Buffalo, NY on Feb. 26 or Feb. 
27. Will share driving and expenses. Call Beth at 4629. 
TALENTED, EXPERIENCED, BABYSITTER NEEDED FOR ND PROFS CHILD. 2 OR 3 MOR­NINGS PER WEEK. MUST HAVE OWN TRANSPORTATION TO HOME ONE MILE FROM LIBRARY. PLEASE CALL 2-6PM. 2Ti­176I THREE-FOUR J PER HOUR. 
Desperately need rwo tickets for Pippin friday night. Will pay well over going rate. Call Mike 1474. 
HAPLAN MCAT BOOKS. WILL BUY, RENT OR BORROW. CALL STEVE AT 277-7759 AFTER II P.M. 
Wanted; Kaplan review books. Will pay big bucks. Call 1429 after II. 
NEED RIDERS GOING EAST TO NYC-LI AREA. LEAVE THURS 2/19, RETURN SUN 2/22. CALL SCOTT 1763 
COPY OF PROGRAM FROM l.A SALLE GAME. 4584 OR 277-8697 
Riders needed to Minneapolis/St. Paul or 
Points West. Leave on Feb. 18, Tuesday in the 
afternoon. Call 232-0982 and ask for Jeff. 


FOR SALE 

SPRINGSTEEN CONCERT PHOTOS FOR SALE CALL BOB AT 3328 

TICKETS 

Need 4-6 Dayton-NO Tix. Please call Monica at 41-5154 
NEEDED!!! 2 GA tix to DePaul vs. ND. Please call. Call Cathy 41-4380. 
Need three G.A. tix for DAYTON, PLEEEEEEEEEEAAAAAAASSSSE!!!!' Call Kathy at 289-5026. 
I NEED MANY DAYTON TIX, STUDENT AND GA--PLEASE CALL BETH AT 1715 OR 277­8037. 
need tickets to Viginia game call 3630 

Thanks to Mary R. and Larry, but I still need some St. Francis GAs!! Plea'iC call Laura at 8042. 
PERSONAlS 

MARIE STACK, KATHY KANE, DIANE FRANZ, SARAH HUDSON, TERI MICIIIELUUTI, MARY ANNE SULLIVAN, CHERYL COOK, BOB VONOHLEN, J.R., BILL KICA, KEVIN KANE, TOM CULLUM, TIM, CHRIS BRADY, MARY BIERMANN, THERESA, MO, JILL D., TINA, LAURA V., DAD AND MOM, ETC. I can never 
express my appreciation for the individual 
love, kindness and time that each of you have given me throughout the year. But I can at least send you each a WARM VALENTINE WISH 'CUZ I LOVE YA ALL... 
LIZZY 
Beth, In a Republican administration, 
There's room for recrimination, 
and very little fun at all. 
The country's a mess, 
I'm sending my best, 
wish in this strange free-for-all. 

Happy Valentine's Day Uncle Duke 
Rachel B., 

I wish I could wish you a Happy Valentine's 
Day, but... Ob, bell -Happy Valentine's Day, 
anyway 

You know who 
Moose Control wishes everyone a Happy Valentine's Day 
Captain Axe wishes everyone a happy Friday the 13th. 
Jane-o 

The carnations were delicious! Love you ---more! 
Tim 
Friday, Februaty 13, 1981 -.-page 15· 
... More Valentine's Personals 








Classifieds 
Dear Rru.:e, lie my Valcnline? me Anytime Me Rlueglrls come In every size!...yea, •orne arc <'Ute and cuddly!!! Happy one Tony. Thanks! mu<·h love, Daffy (mel!!) PREPROI'IlSSIONAl STUDENTS: Come to the HAPPY HOUR in Stan­ford llallthi• FR(()AY from 4-6 I'M' PETF.R CROWE ROSES ARE RED VIOLETS ARE RUlE SOMEROI>Y I.OVES YOU NOW GlJESS WIIO? ..................................................................... A PERFECT VALENTINE'S DATil!!! Com<' sec Dr. Zhiva11o at SMC's Car· roll llall. Friday and Saturday, February 13 and 14 at 7:00 and I0:30 p.m. (This Is alonf! movie, so you <·an pruhahly !Kjueeze( 1) lots of Valentine'• Day a<·llvitlcs in durinK the show.) IrS REAIJ.Y HERE TillS TIME!!! Dr. ZhlvaKo at SMC's Carrollllall. friday and Saturday, February 13 and 14 at 7:00 and 10:30 p.m. It may he n>ld and snowy out~ldc, hut warm the romantic nu:kks of your beaux's hcan by takinR him/her to this movie. ...................... STF.VI'., I'M SORRY ABOIJT TilE III.ACK EYE... IF YOU'Ll LET ME liE YOUR VALENTINE, I PROMISI' I'LL MAKE IT liP TO YOU! TilE NO U>NGER CRII'PLED PIIAN­TOM XXXOOO BEVERLY, You arc a DREAM COME TRUE. HAPPY VALENTINES DAY. UlVE, MJCHAH  Dear Ann M: I couldn't Hnd the perfect Valentine card for you so, in my own wonJs, here goes: To a transplanted Philadelphian·· I'm glad you're at ND now, if only on weekdays. Too bad we can't make "brotherly lov"" on Saturday nif!ht (just kiddinK ). Happy Valentine's Day, Ann··OSl.l's loss is our gain. Love, Chris Scoop; Happy Valt-ntincs Day cutic. ltow's sales KOinR of our dcslf!ner in· nenuhes? Have we unloaded that rubber? Ryan Ill R.A.B., I hope you never again havl' as had a day a.' you did on Wednestlay, he· cause whc:n you fed awful, so do I. Love, T.C.N. Hey Kevin, TONIGIIT'S THE NIGHT!! !I The f!UY across the hall HAPPY VALENTINE'S llA Y to ali my llliDDIES: Face, l!Q!Ic. Annie, Usa, Kath, Mary, Terri, Sheryl, Pia, Kris, Jletsy, Steph, Trkia, MoMo. THANKS I'OR EVERY· THING. Dllll And also to my B·BALL IILIDDIIlS, T.M., Molly, Jenny, MJ., Kara YOliR TRANSITION HELPER, liebby ( W.ll.) To the most wond.,r· ful, talented, underpaid, and simply awesome sport:. writer I have ever had tht· pl<-asurc of meetinK. DliR I love you, Chingkcns!!! I love you, Chingkcns!ll  To Mike· Leo is his name. Rugby is his game. Until he came along My days were in a fog. Rut now my life's full ofcheer I play quarters with my beer. In this special way I say Have a Happy Valentine's Day! Love, Kelly llobby, Everybody ha.• a hungry hean. Happy Valentine's Day. Yours 'til en· glneer.; become Anists, Runzi dear pam (famous barn inhabitant), you are thl' most beautiful creature that I have ever seen on the nd-smc campus. at the sif!ht of you, i fall hopelessly In love and throb with passion. hope you have a really nice valentine's day. Jove, mike ps..carc to sec Pippin saturday nitc? TillS IS AN OFFICIAL RETRACTilR FOR THE BlOTCHMAN.I TAKE IT ALL RACK. OH YEH,CAN I BOR· ROW YOUR PERSONALITY NOTES FOR ~-RIDAY... DEAR SNOOPY, WIU you be my Valentine? I WANT IT NOW! But, if you DENY ME it is YOUR LOSS! love, PEPPERMINT PATTI P.S. Do you want me to watch your "GOLD COAT'' at the meets this weekend? P.S.S. I LOVE YOU! Ask Ray Quintin what he did with the dead mice from last semester? 66~2 liE WARE OF THE FOUR TORTURES  HAPPY RIRTHDAY, BEI.L, YOU DINING HALL DISASTER!l SH.AKE DOWN THAT THUNDER FOR ANOTIIER 20 YEARS!!!! We've had to endure the plagues, the drouRhts, dining hall food, GH, and 20 YEARS OF THE FLOOD. What next, Lord?! KELLIE FLOOD We admit lt··we have a helpless crush on you, cspc:cially since your thunderously voluptuous body turned 20. How long wiU you keep us waltinR in PAJNFllL anticipation? love, ND MALE STUDENT RODY(S) Dear Mom and the girls, We would like to wish you all a very Happy Valentine's Day. Love, Dad and Sonny. Cindy "What arc p~rietals?" Papesch, Mary Lynn "Satisfaction" Gar11as, and Veronica "Scandal" Mitchell: This is for the valentines that never came--l felt it's the least I could dol Besides you always wanted your names in print. Someday you'll thank me. 0 yea, HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY! Who Else?! HI SCOOP, JANA Noisey Knees: llappy Valentines Day! I hope youur weekend is extra special. (Actally I plan to make it so). You can pick up your contacts Saturday. Yours in disrobcmcnti Mr. Skinny p.s. I love you. This is a Valentines personal to all the beauutiful women who work with me on Monday Nights (especially Maura, a hardened vet). Thanks for puttinR up with the JunK  Gandalf is dead. alas! alas! alas! The grey wizard vanished in Moria, never more to help us. INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS RINGS, S20· S85 OR MORE. WE MAKE HOUSE CAlLS. :ii~S-2402. WiU pay U for Boston U G.A.'s on Feb. 10. Call Tracey S206 (SMC) SOCIAL CONCERNS l'ILM SERIES ENDS NEXT WEEK. GET CON· CERNED! Dearest Monica: To the woman I most like to tos.• about, may yu never get fat, or I will get a hernia. Your layout is the best, especially when you take off your sweatc:-r. J.uv" and kisses, Mr. Ryan Macho, it's two years this March 7, countless miles lat.,r. We can do it. Happy Valentine's Day. Love, your F.I.B. DEAREST RYAN, WORDS CAN NOT EXPRESS MY TRUE FEELINGS FOR YOU. BEI.IEVE ME THEY CAN'T!! MY VALENTINE WISH FOR YOllJS TIIAT ONE DAY YOU WJJ.J. FIND THE PJ.ANTS OF YOUR DREAMS ATTACHED TO THE WHATEVER OF YOUR DREAMS I MISS YOU SO MUCH, AU. THE TIME, EVEN WHEN YOU'RE RIGHT HERE. HOPE YOUR VALENTINES DAY IS TRllL Y MEMORAIILE. I'M SURE YOU Will MAKE MINE AT WAY. LOVE AND KISSES MONICA OPEN A DOOR TO THE SOP· HOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAl THE FULFilLMENT OF THE  adventur"s ofa boring person th" on.,·hundred yard dash Isn't so difficult, really. after all, all they do Is stan, run fast, a.nd stop. the f!UY or Kal with the fastest lim" wins. how dull. it would he far more exciting if a solid brick wall was consttu<'tcd just after the finish line, so that the momentum of thc runners would carry th"m at high velocity against an immovable object, probably causing several broken bones, spun· inR of blood, and much pain. then we'd Hnd out who really wanted to win, wouldn't we? ...................................................................., happy valcntin.,'s day to .,v.,ryonc who n"cds to ht· told happy valentine's day. scoop TO ALL MY FRIENDS IN I.EWJS I· NORTH Happy Valentine's Day to the greatest section on campus! You arc all v"ry special to m" and 1 consider myself lucky to have f!Ottcn to know you so well Hope all of you "nah" a VAI.ENTINE this weekend!! Love. Mark "The Luger" Chris llatHdd, Happy Valentine's Day! love, Linda MMII Would I miss Vakntinc's Day? You BET!! Talk to me sometime when I'm awake. MJM Fencing (yeah swords) Saturday at noon ACC pit. lie: ther.,. (No stupid fencing puns in this per.;onai) KATHY K. HERE IS THE PERmNAJ. YOU HAVE WANTED, TOO DAD THE FI.OWER~ WILTED, AND NEVER FOUND A IJOME!  I  
PINECONE, "EXU:JJ.ENT" IS THE ONI.Y WORD FOR TilE EXCITEMENT(car theh), ARTISTIC AI'PEAL (AlCOA pyramids), AND CliLTlJRE ( hava youuccna "Stir Crazy" )OF THE 1ST ANNIIAL6·~·4·3·l·l·ll Thanx, ANNIE GOI.D STAR I'.S. Sorry thi• is late hut I wa• hijacked hy a Sdruc:co. TRH, DRI. & TEF., 1'1.1. LOVE YOU 4-EVF.R. CEE PS WE'J.I. GET YOU G MARIE & J.P. To R;Khd, my Hrst real Valcnline: Tht· la.•t two months have ht•t•n Kfcat -your carinK and friendship are murr than I've rec..·civr:d from any other Kirl anywhere. THANKS FOR JiVERYTHING! Lovt•, "Anotht·r Offer" P.S. Sec you tonif!ht! GI.LICK · GLUCK TO MY ONE ANI> ONJ.Y VALENTINE! MADEI.INll YOU EVIl. ONE: We've ccnalnly been thtnuKh a lot togct· her. I care more now than I ever did hcfort·. Looking forward In the weekend. Arc You? LO<Jkt>Ut, Stcvk MAJ>EJJNE, ARil YOU STill ItAN· GJNG OUT IN liARS? YOU CAN liANG OUT WITII Mil ANYTIME... .......................................... ... ..................... tn my papunsc, Happy 2nd vakntlnc's day Thanks fu making my life full of sun· shine. You arc the lov" of my life. Thanks fn hdnK you. your hamhino Illillam, llappy Valentine's Day, cutkl Laura p.s. It took four years. Was It worth the wait? lkar Ooopy, Only 119 days til w., prnmlsc to love, honor, and cherl•h (obey?), til death do u• part. Lov" al· way!' and forever, fo'lo!i. Jiml>oug. Yahoo, Spot, Ace, l>·llnh, llawk, and Utaaah x 2: Valentine ki•sc• being act·cptcd nnw throuf!h Saturday. love. l.yons first floor Julk, Aftt·r 2 yean there's not mudt  •  I love you, Chingkens, and in case you didn't know. this means you, Bob Jlouhall!!! Signed the love of Your llfl'lll Me!!! Need ride to INDIANAPOI.JS or IILOOMJNGTON, this weekend for two people. Will share usual. Call leslie at 79 36. Mat) . HAPPY VAJ.ENTINES DAY to my favorite freshman sister. M!Kii ..................................................................... Barhic & Kathleen· Happy valentines day from the Jlwd to the llurKh Mike. CAT Happy Val<-ntint•s Day, squii!Kics & hUKS, BUG Mary lkth Jc t'aime toujours avec tout mon •·ocur. Christopher. ( P.S. I.W.Y.B.) (P.S.S. Even If you arc wicrd.) A SWEET llllART FOR YOUR SWEETHEART! BliY .YOlJR VALENTINE A CHOCOI.ATE HEART ON SAJ.E NOW AT THE SMC DINING IIAJ.L FOR ONLY 1.35! WILL DE DEI.IVERED TO EITHER CAMPUS ON VAJ.ENTINE'S DAY. TO TWO OF THE JI~:ST PEOPlE ON CAMPUS. HAPPY VALENTINES DAY. YES, CON & LES You all arc two of the ones I can tolerate for more than cinco mhtutos eh. l.uvc always Mo. BONJOUR MARGARET!! ..................................................................... MARY KATE, WIJ.J. YOU DE MY VALENTINE? CHECK YES--OR NO--. SEND ANSWER TO CHAPEl. IIIli.. I lOVE YOU, SliGAR. DANNY IU TO ROSJ:ANN-·1 FORGOT A FEW TIIINGS I W ANTJiD TO SAY. FIRST, IIAPPY VAI.ENTINES J)AY. SECOND, I'll CALL YOU AS SOON AS I GET RACK. THIRD, I LOVE YOU. YOUR fORGETtlJL P. AND R. PAMMY, I WJJ.J. DE HOME lATE.... DON'T WAIT liP (OR LOCK THE DOOR). SIGNED, 7:21. l.Al!RJE, YOU'VE GOT TilE MUSIC IN YOU. MAKJi MEN OF liS TONIGHT RIG GIRl.. 011, YOU'RE SO GOOD. SIGNED; KEENAN, STANFORD. CAVANAUGH, ZAHM..... HAPPY VAI.ENTINE'S  OF PAT BORCHERS: I) LOOKING AT HIM 2) LISTENIN(,i TO HIM 3) BEING HIS RIJND DATE 4) BEING SEEN WITH HIM PAT BORCHERS FOR l!MOC "BORCHERS TORTURES" HEY AI. YOll DRllGGIES, SKIBllMS, SCOllNDRAl.S AND lATE-NIGHT RINGERS: Friday the 13th Is Skip Tuite's 22nd birthday, so call her up at 277·3490 and wish her a GREAT ONE. TIM DINAPOJJ, IIAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY. SliE YOU TillS AFTERNOON! ADORINGLY YOURS, YOUR SECRET SWEETHEART TIM DINAPOJ.J IS NO'S SlJI'ER· STUD! MIKE IIOWARD IS REALLY EASY. I'D LOVE TO SEE filM IN A LEAT· HER THONG. RETTER STILL, NOT IN A I.EATIIIiR THONG. PANT, PANT. ll.ISTINGI.Y, YOUR SECRET SWEETHEART dear cap, well I've been afraid of changinR because I've built my world . around you and time makes you bolder even children 11et older and we're f!Ctting older too lov" you, mtl TO All FliMAI.ES: DON'T CAllUS WE'lL CALl YOll! LOVE, LEO AND LEON VON LEO P.S. EVEN EMIL T. NEEDS PASSION HEY EVERYONE! )ANA PODBEI.SKIIS NOT PERFECT, RUT EVERYONE lOVES HER ANYWAY. RYAN, DO YOlJ IIAVE A LEATHER THONG? IF SO, SHOW ME... YOUR SECRET ADMIRER ROSEANN.. WHEN THE BI.INDING GlOIJE OF liGHT RUNS ITS COURSE, AND DARKNESS RULES OUR GROUND; WilEN THE TWO·FISTED  hours and sexual harrasmcnt. Remember, there are special bonuses for tholiC who buy me cigars. And finally, lets get done early so we can go home to bed--tee bee. love and kisses··eek! Cooties Ryan "no do>." Vcr Berkmoes p.s. Special wishes to my burnt out fomer colleages;Jeannie, Eileen, and Amy. Come back anytime to have your fires relit. Lynne, yours is in code. Ryan alias "007" Jana, Erin, and Carol; Happy Valentines day to 3 of my favorite dining companions, and 3 of my best friends. I promise, no more black coffee jokes. love and kisses--double eek! More cooties. Q: What did john Steinbeck write while in the Yukon? A, Of Moose and Men. (Credit/blame goes to Prezio/Ver Berkmoes) Moose Control HAPPY VAlENTINES DAY TO MADELINE! MAY YOU AlWAYS HAVE A BROTHEL TO HANG OUT IN! HAPPY VALENTINES DAY TO DON (PI'ISTERJOE) MliRDAY! WHY CAN'T THE UNIVERSITY BREAK DOWN AND GIVE liS ALL A SNOW DAY? WE SURE DESERVE IT! EVJiN NOTRE DAME GIRLS NEED PASSION! Happy Birthday Colleen! Love Noreen Frank C., I don't know what I ever saw in you. But whatever it was... You've still got it... And I still love it. Happy Valentine's Day Margl" Happy Valentine's Day to all my loved ones· Cindo, Buf, Calacciliace, Norn, M.Jew, and ofcour.;., Edweird. Much Love, Patty .....................................................,I............... Tim, Thanks for being a great friend. Happy Valentine's Day. Luv, Beth and Mad Dog  PROMISE DEPENDS ON FAITH.. Send someone a carnation for Valentine's Day! On sale in South Dining Hall Feb. 9·13. Sponsored hy Radin Hall. HEY............... SMC'SARE PEOPLE, Tll! OOPS, TWO...OOOPS, TOO!! Boris, Rendez-vous tonight 8:19 on The Occident Express. llring clas· silled do<·umcnts, dixie-cup tclecommunlcators, and INR, chiUed. Je t'alme. Na Zdrowle Anno, llappy Valentine's Day to a v~ry dear friend! Let's toast Ann Ar· hor, ll of M, and the future of profes­sional women! Lots of love, Paula. ZAHMBIES··are we not men? Dear Dennis Is it true that postman's "mall bags" are volptuous and have th" capacity to deliver and come on tim" with their valintines? Flos Dear Tom Is it true that Chef!'s shoot their valentines love potions into warmdark places at 4~ deg. an111 Flos Dear Wh.,els The girls of EC send their love. By the way, when are you cominR home? D.k.,M.T.S.,D.P.,F.P. Dear Flus Your pretty pervened as everyon" can see. Hope you have a "good time" this week. Hope we're loge!· her this V.D. and many,many more. Boop THE DATING GAME...FRJDAY NITE IN THE DILLON PARTY ROOM. CONTESTANTS CHOSEN AT RAN· DOM FROM THE CROWD. 10:00· 2:00. dear gene, welcome back to th" big bend. I love you. me: Happy Valentine's Day to the guys at 71 B St. Louis. love:, a secret admlr"r RAN THE BAGPIPES  THE NliW JERSEY CUJB IS RllN· NING A SPRING BREAK lll!S TO EAST BRUNSWICK AND N.Y.C. COST Will. liE 73.00 ROUND TRIP. SIGN-liPS WILl. BE ON Sl!NDAY l'liRRlJARY I~ AT 7:00 P.M. IN LAFORTUNE RAJJ.ROOM. DRING A CHECK OR CASH. DON'T FOR· GE11!! Gref!: Happy Valentin"'" Day··too had we're not in the Ra.hama.• luding out and conserving mixer! love, Th" trilingual lady Bob: Happy Valentine's Day. Thanks for being there wht·n I necdl'd ya, Love, Kim J.arry & Paul: Happy Valentine's Day! Hope we can enjoy the rest of the scmest"r without th" "passion marks" Me I desperately need a ride to Buffalo, NY on Feb. 26 or F.,b. 271 Will share driving and expenses. Call Beth at 4629. Join the llagplpc Boycott. Goode is had. .lim Goode for l!MOC TO BARBARA ANN There is no """ else And you fed the ..me And I'm real happy And Ilk's b.,en KOOd recently And Algk likes you too TomarroW1 be mine love, the late great rls KEARIN You know you're number one to me, I just wonder when I'll he num· her one to you. It may hav" taken me thr"" year.; but I'm Kiad I found you. I Lon You Kid. Love Always, Gr"88 P.S. I f!Uess the hlind.,rs fit too well Angelita Sleeper, "Always and Forner!" sayonara, your huddles Happy Valentine's Day to the Phan· tom F"niliz.,r. I lOVE YOU!! Prin<·.,ss. Teddy o.,ar,  
left tu ,...y except "llov" you" Always, Tom Dear Heather. Happy Vakntinc'• l>ayl You arc the best snowOakc ncr. Can I melt you? Love and miss you, JtAPPY HARRY Shdly Obermiller, Your smik can hrif!hten up th., Kinom lest ofdays. ..................................................................... Cindy J, Will you be my vakntint?  DAY. I.ALIRJE REYNOLDS LOVES ABUSE!!! Lynne Thomas is a beautiful .....A Friend in Desire. HJiY PREPROFESSIONALS! PARTY DOWN AT THE FIRST OF MANY HAPPY HOURS THIS FRIDAY IN STANFORD HAll FROM 4-6 PM!!!  ANIMALS WHO RULE THIS SPHERE, ARE EMPTIED INTO TWO HOUSES; WHETHER I JOIN YOU IN THE MANSION, OR FAll INTO THE DURNING GHETTO YOlJ Will BE ABLE TO KNOW AT EVERY HEARTBEAT THERE IS A MAN WHO LOVES YOU. YOUR OWN P. AND R.  TIM...YOll CAll YOURSElF A SALESMAN? I HOPE LEO BURNETTE KNOWS WHAT ITS IN FOR.. GOOD LlJCK IN BENGALS... BO HAPPIEST VALENTINES DAY: Melodi,Annie Gold Star,Fran'sAMJauckey you are "Knocking us out with those American thighs" and "We love you more than we can say." Be our Valentines. LOVE, PINECONE & M.D. MOFE & TOSTITOS.  dearQ, pick a number from J.J 0. Jove,Q P.S. youu loose! take offyour clothes! Gigl, "Our love is like a rose:, th" bud Is timeless, The blooming is slow and d"licate, And the maturation glorious!" Love, Cui  'lltank you for making m" HAPPY! lov.,, Chick!~ p.s. Can I hav" some M&M's? Dear Jim, Happy Valentines Day! You're something else. Lov.,,J. Gadzooksl It's llldd"n Heans p.,b. 11 Oh, yc or llttk Iiiith -fear not. There's always Moose Controll  
GW  

.·,

.· .
1·. 
; ~'-­


Friday, February 13, 1981 -page 16 
Good news and bad news as Irish face Wolves 
Tripucka leads the Irish in "But we can't dwell on that loss. We By BETH HUFFMAN scoring, hitting nearly 20 points a have a big game Saturday at North Sports Editor game, while Woolridge,Jackson and Carolina State. N.C. State is a little 
point-guard John Paxson are also down this year, but Reynolds "It's a good news and bad news averaging in double figures. ' Coliseum is one of the toughest situation for us this week," said 
To combat the scoring machine · places to play and I'm sure they'll be consisting of Notre Dame's senior ' primed for liS."
North Carolina State Head Coach tri-captains, the Wolfpack will The Wolfpack boasts a 10-game
Jim Valvano. "The good news is that by Wednesday we should be !00 
utilize forward Thurl Bailey, who winning streak at home against non­percent healthy for the first time in 
leads N.C. State with 13.1 ppg and Atlantic Coast Conference teams. 
more than a month. 6.2 rpg. The 6-10 Bailey will be Notre Dame was the last non-ACC 
"The bad news -we've got the joined in the forecourt by Art Jones team to down N.C. State in Reynolds 
No. I (Virginia) and the No. 9 (6-7 senior), who averages 12.2 Coliseum, when the Irish won a 
(Notre Dame, since rated No. 12 by points and 5.3 rebounds per game. squeaker, 53-52, in 1979. That win 
theAP) teams in the country coming Jones is one of Valvano's "good ended a 73-game consecutive home­
here. That's a tall order for a club news" recoveries -returning after win total against non-conference 
that's been struggling the way we a I 0-day lay-offbecause ofa sprained teams. Last year the Pack handed 
have." knee. Notre Dame one of its two losses in 
Valvano was correct in the first of Craig Watts, a 7-0 senior, will the ACC, winning, 63-55. 
his "bad news" predictions, as his open for the Wolfpack at center, North Carolina State will be one of 
club fell to Ralph Sampson and the while Dereck Whittenburg and Sid-three Atlantic Coast Conference 
Virginia Cavaliers on Wednesday. ney Lowe combine to form the N.C. teams to face the Irish during the 
Part Two of the first-year coach's 
State backcourt. Lowe, who is 1980-81 season. Notre Dame "had news" forecast could come in­
rebounding from an injured foot, has traveled to College Park, Md., to to reality as the 12:10 N.C. State amassed 151 assists in 18 games. defeat Lefty Driesell's Maryland Ter­team plays host to the 17-4 Fighting 
Lowe has already surpassed the rapins, 73-70, earlier this year. Vir­Irish tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. in 
Wolfpack season assist mark of 139 ginia and Phelps' squad will meet set by Clyde Austin in 1977. next Saturday in the Rosemont
Reynolds Coliseum. The Irish own a Missing from the N.C. State line-Horizon.
2-1 game advantage over the 
Wolfpack. 
up this year are all-American Haw-The Irish are 4-3 on the road this keye Whitney and Austin. Whitney year, taking games from Kentucky,
"Notre Dame is the most inside­and Austin finished one-two last year Davidson, Villanova and Maryland.
oriented club we'll face all year," 
said Valvano. "In order for us to 
in scoring for the 20-8 Wolfpack The three road disappointers were ..succeed, we must stop their inside 
"Naturally, the loss to UCLA was a losses to UCLA, Marquette and San game of (Kelly) Tripucka and big disappointment for us. We Francisco. 

(Orlando) Woolridge, yet not let missed our opportunities and didn't ================================================ 
Tracy Jackson get a hot hand from execute our game plan very well at 
the outside." all," said Irish Coach Digger Phelps. Brokaw learns 

You CAN go home again 
Gary Brokaw has had to make a lot of adjustments in
Notre Dame, MSU 
his life. For the most part, he has handled the transitions very well. Now, he is using his experience to help ot­hers adjust.
tofightfor berth 
Brokaw, who earned basketball all-American honors 
as a guard on Digger Phelps's 1973-74 squad, returned 
to his alma mater last fall. He still spends time on the 
basketball court, as a graduate assistant coach, but he By BRIAN BEG LANE average of3. 91. also has a new role to play. Since August, Brokaw has Sports Writer "Scott is a very good goalie," says been working in the office of Minority Student Affairs. EAST LANSING, Mich. -Notre Irish coach Lefty Smith. "We have "Coming to Notre Dame can be a trying experience 
"The loss in the NIT finals to Virginia Tech was one of Dame and Michigan State, two teams respect for this club. They split with for anyone," he says. "But when one comes here as a 
the biggest disappointments of my college career," still overboard as far as the Western us earlier in the year." minority student, the transition is even tougher." 
Brokaw recalls. "We were definitely a better team, and Collegiate Hockey Association Brokaw's responsibility is to recruit and advise we played well, but they won on a desperation shot playoffs go, hope to grab a seat on minority students on how to make those kinds ofadjust­
similar to this year's Marquette game."the lifeboat this weekend and ments easier to handle. His office coordinates the ef­
The frustration of his freshman year and the success remain afloat after the regular forts of the University's Admissions, Financial Aid, and 
of his sophomore campaign have not soured Brokaw's season ends Feb. 28. " ...We still have Minority Students Departments in smoothing out feelings about freshman eligibility, however. 
But the seas are rough as the two potential s1tudent problems. "I think it would be good for freshman athletes to clubs prepare to meet tonight and In addition, a large amount ofhis time is spent in the have a year to get used to college life. It would solve tomorrow here at the Munn Ice a shot at basketball office. His duties there are remarkably some recruiting problems around the country as well. Arena ( 7:30 faceoff, WNDU-AM, similar to the tasks he has in his office under the Dome. Coaches would not be able to promise high school 
! -~ 90, live coverage tonight only). the playoffs..." "I'd include athletes in the category of minority stu­seniors instant super-stardom." 
Notre Dame, in ninth place in the dents, especially freshman athletes," he explains. 
After Brokaw and his teammates made the finals of WCHA with a 6-15-1 record ( 10-18-"Notre Dame plays a grueling athletic schedule ­
the NIT, they set a new goal for themselves the follow­2 overall), is looking for two vic­players have the additional pressures of travel and 
ing year. 
tories to try and pull into contention television appearances to deal with. On top ofall ofthat, "We decided that we wanted to make it to the NCAA for the playoffs. The Irish trail Notre Dame took a 4-3 overtime they have the same academic requirements as all stu­tournament," he says. "But ~hings turned out even bet­Minnesota-Duluth and Colorado game, then lost l-0. dents here." ter than that." 
College by five points. "We still have a shot at the When Brokaw speaks about'the trials ofa varsity ath­What Brokaw and the Irish team did was break 
Two Spartan victories could spell· playoffs," continued Smith. "The lete, he is speaking from experience. He came here the ' UCLA's 88-game winning streak and end up ranked as doom for the Irish. Michigan State, schedule is on our side, but we have same year that Phelps arrived, in order to pursue a life­the No. l team in the country for a week. the last place team with a 4-17-1 to help ourselves with two wins this long goal. "At the time, you just didn't beat UCLA. They were 
record (9-19-2 overall), is trying just weekend." head and shoulders above the rest of the teams in the
"Since the time I was four years old, I wanted to be a to pull into contention for the Colorado College plays third professional basketball player," he remembers. "Digger country. We were young and hungry, and Digger had us playoffs. place Wisconsin this weekend while actually recruited me to go to Fordham, where he was ready to play. I'll never forget the day we practiced cut­"The playoffs are not an impos­Duluth hosts sixth place Michigan. coaching at the time, but I really didn't want to go there. ting down the nets. That memory stands out the most in sibility, but we're not really looking Injury-wise, the Irish are hurting I figured that Notre Dame was a better place to get my my mind." 
at them as a possibility either," said again. Two defensemen, senior Scott degree, and afforded me a greater opportunity to move "I've always thought that our starting five was better Spartan coach Ron Mason, whose Cameron and juniorJim Brown, will on to pro ball. It wasn't until after I signed my letter of than UCLA's was. They were just so deep that they translator was unavailable to explain be sidelined. Brown has an ankle in­intent that Digger was hired to coach here." could come at you with too many quality players." 
what he meant hy that. jury while Cameron will probably That first season, Brokaw played on the freshman Fans at Notre Dame went absolutely crazy over the 
"We feel there's still that outside be out the rest of the year with a team and watched the varsity suffer through a 6-20 team. "They were as hungry as we were," explains chance that we can make the separated shoulder. season. Brokaw. There was a lot of disappointment when the playoffs," Mason continued. Ah, Junior goalie Dave Laurion will "Sure it was frustrating, knowing that we could team lost to Michigan in an early round of the NCAA 
okay. miss his second consecutive series probably have played on the varsity. We scrimmaged tourney. 
The Spartans were swept last with strained knee ligaments. Final­them a couple oftimes, and the freshmen won. But who "We ran into Campy Russell on one ofhis best nights, week at Minnesota, 8-3 and 4-2. ly, sophomore center Dick Olson knows, we might have gone 5-21. and it was all over," Brokaw says. "I guarded him, John Their offense has been awful, as they also will be out with a knee injury. "We didn't dwell on it much. After all, the NCAA said Shumate covered him, Adrian Dantley covered him, but total just 54 goals in 22 league After this week, the Irish close out we couldn't play varsity and there was nothing we we couldn't stop him. I think Russell was one ofthe best games. Bob Martin leads MSU in the regular season at home with could do to change that. As a matter offact, I think that offensive basketball players in the history of the game." scoring with 15 WCHA points and series against Colorado College and time we played together as freshmen helped us a great At the end of his junior year, Brokaw applied for the 2'3 overall. Wisconsin. With some help from the deal when we got to the varsity.'' hardship draft. He was chosen by the Milwaukee Bucks 
Goaltending has been the high­Badgers and two wins here, the Irish Something must have worked among the freshmen, in the first round. light, with Ron Scott the leader. He could make next-week's series a real because the next year the Irish went 18-12, and reached 
See BROKAW, page 11 sports an overall goals against showdown for the playoffs. the finals ofthe NIT. 






