• .Interhall Hockey -page 8
• 

VOL XV, NO. 109 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 1981 
.................. 
100 Hostages 

Hijackers scale down demands 

DAMASCUS, Syria (AP)-Hijack­ers holding more than 100 hostages on a Pakistani airliner scaled down their demands yesterday but threatened to blow up the plane and all aboard unless Pakistan met a Wednesday deadline for freeing political prisoners, Syrian and P~is­
tani officials said. 

Negotiators sought a compromise settlement that would free hostages and political prisoners simul­taneously. The Boeing 720, seized nine days ago over Pakistan and taken first to Kabul, Afghanistan, and 
then  Damascus,  rested  on  an  
auxiliary  runway  surrounded  by  
Syrian police cars.  

Three Americans and two alien 
U.S. residents were among the hostages, described as increasingly nervous as the ordeal continu· ·1. 
The three heavily armed skyjack­ers set 2 p.m. Syrian time Wednes­day ( 7 a.m. EST) for Paskistan's military government to release the prisoners, officials said. 
But Syria's chief negotiator, Brig. Gen. Mohammed Kholi, said the young hijackers scaled down their demands, reducing the number of opposition activists they want freed in Pakistan from 92 to 45. 
The general told reporters at Damascus airport he was hopeful a compromise would be reached and the ordeal of the captives would "soon be over." 
Kholi said the Pakistani govern­ment also made "new proposals" to keep the negotiations with the hijackers alive. He would not dis­close these proposals but sources at the Dama-.cus airport control tower said Islamabad authorities offert~d to release 22 political prisoners in Pakistan, seven more than Presiuent Mohammed Zia ulHaq's authoritari­an military regime originally offered to free. 
Pakistan's defense ministry secretary-general, M. Rabin Khan, also said the government was prepared to arrange with the hijack­ers a "simultaneous release" of political prisoners and hostages. 
This appeared to be a new conces­sion. During seven days of negotia-Lions in Kabul, the Pakistanis insisted that the hostages must be freed first. 

Rabin Khan said Pakistan has agreed to free I 5 of the original 92 prisoners demanded by the three hijackers -mt.:mbers of a Pakistan dissident group named after ex­President Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, who 
-was hanged in 1979. Khan said the number might rise should charges involving 31 others prove not serious. 
Senior class sponsors 'Fellow' nomination 
By LOUIS BREAUX 
StaffReporter 
An open ballot will be held today to take nominations for the Senior Fellow. The voting will take place in LaFortune during lunch and in the Dining Halls. 

Seniors are urged to consider only persons who meet certain qualifica­tions in choosing a Senior Fellow. The Senior Fellow 3hould be someone who has a tie with the Notre Dame family, such as an ad­ministrator, faculty member, or an alumnus. Also, the Senior Fdlow by definition should be someone " who embodies the spirit of the class, one who has inspired and affected stu­dents lives, one who encourages and stimulates students to think about who they are, and a person who in­corporates Christian values in his or her life." 
In the past the first choice for Senior Fellow has invariably 

Profhears songs by romantic crickets 
By KERRY TEMPLE 
N.D. Information Services 
When Harald Esch walks through a field on a summer evening, he hears more than crickets chirping. 

nal of Comparative Physiology, 
help tell man how the nervous sys­tem controls an organism's be­havior. 
As crickets have incredibly poor eyesight, the male and female must messages to the brain. Doing that, in each of the bug's front legs. In however, required exploring a high­each ear are 60 to 70 neurons, or ly sophisticated system thin as a nerve cells, which record the 
single human hair. sounds, translate them into coded The cricket's two ears are located 
See CRICKETS, page 3 declined the invitation because no funds are allocated for transporta­tion and accomodations. In effect, the Senior Fellow usually turns out 
See FELLOW, page 3 

C.L. C. holds first meeting 
The Campus Life Council will convene tonight, for the first time this year, to discuss the housing issue. The agenda for the meeting focuses on the problems and im­plications of the housing shortage. The suddeness ofthe meeting is due to the upcoming junior lottery. 
The committee will stress the need for the University to recognize its responsibility to the off-campus community. The alarming state of deterioration in the NE area is ex­pected to be highlighted in todays meeting. Also expected to be dis­cussed is the University's respon­siblity to a lotteried student should he be injured in an off-campus crime. 
· The CLC will also examine the Student Senate's proposal to lodge the juniors lotteried off-campus in Pasquerilla West. 
He hears music that drives female crickets wild. Esch, a biology professor "L the University of Notre Dame, can tell what species he hears by the song being strummed on the cricket's wings. He can teU you if it is the male's melodic mating song or the hissing fight song, an up-tempo num­bea played when rivals court the same female. As a resuh of a new technique which took Esch two years to develop, the biologist may know as much as any scientist in the world about a cricket's auditory processes. Working at Notre Dame and the Max Planck Institute for Behavioral Physiology in Seewiesen, Germany, Esch is the first to insert an electrode into a cricket's audial nerve to study what happens when a female hears a male's serenade. His findings, reported in thejour­ depend upon the love song simply to find each other in order to do their part in propagating the species. The male initiates the romance by rubbing one wing upon the other. Some are left-handed, others right­handed; and, as in the human population, righties predominate. If a solo becomes a duet, the two males will change their tune, strumming passionately for the maiden's hand. Ifthe two males come together, they fight savagely, ripping off antennae and legs. While hundreds ofcricket species abound, the female will react only when she hears the song unique to her species. Then she drops every­thing and moves by jump and crawl toward t the sensual tones. In Notre Dame's biology facility, where a computer replicates the crickets' songs, ()on-the-loose females can be seen flipping down the corridors toward Esch's lab when his com­puter plays the right tune.() To find out what takes place be­tween the transmission and this single-minded response, Esch took a look at the cricket's car and the nerves which carry the audial  WSND selects new staff The WSND AM/FM Executive Board has elected department heads for the 1981-1982 academic year. Co-ordinating the new executive staff will be station manager Thomas Nessinger. Nessinger, a junior in the American Studies Program, brings to the position two years ofexperience on the executive board as the direc­tor ofproduction engineering. Filling other positions on the executive staff are Kevin Leitten, Dan LeDuc, and Mark Rowland. Leinen, WSND AM's Chief Announcer, will take the AM program director's job. LeDuc will move into the news director's position, and Rowland will take over as the production director. Returning to the board are chief engineer John Garino, FM program director Kris Allen, and Sports Director Bill Dempsey. The new executive board will formally initiate its administration April I, 1981. Commenting on the election, current station manager Kevin Gessler emphasized the value of experienced department heads, but noted that the "fresh perspective and innovative ideas" that come with newer members provide the "power needed to drive such a large and creative organization." WSND Station Manager Thomas Nesstnger  

~-------~­
-• 

l\T~~Scl:J:~=:i:~~~~S========~~====================w=e=d=ne=s=da=y=,M=~=c=h=l=l=,l=9=S=l;=P=a=ge~2 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Six members ofthe Academic Council 

have been elected to constitute the Committee for the Review of the Dean of the Freshman Year of Studies. They are: Fr. Thomas Blantz, associate professor and chairman of history; Mary Caiati, a senior in the College ofArts and Letters;John E. Derwent, associate professor of mathematics; Nicholas Fiore, professor and chairman of metallurgical engineering and materials science; Sonia Gernes, assistant professor of English, and Lee Tavis, Smith professor ofbusiness administration. The University's Academic Manual mandates a five-year review ofthe dean of the Freshman Year. Father Blantz said that members of the Univer­sity community are invited to comment in writing on the stewardship of Dean Emil T. Hofman. Letters which will be held in strictest con· fidence, should be addressed to Dean's Review Committee, c/o Father Blantz at the Department ofHistory and arrive on or before April3.­
The Observer 
The Soviet Union and Poland announced yes­

terday that joint Warsaw Pact military exercises will begin in Poland later this month. The announcement followed a one-hour strike in Lodz, the first major work stoppage in more than a month in this Com· munist nation beset by economic and labor troubles. The Polish news agency PAP said the exercises would take place in Poland, East Ger­many, Czechoslovakia and the Soviet Union in the latter halfofMarch. Some Western observers said the exercises were expected at this time of the year, but U.S. State Department officials last week expressed concern about reports of such maneuvers. A threat of Soviet military intervention in Poland, beyond the Soviet troops already there, has overshadowed the Polish crisis of late last year. The announcement said the aim ofthe exercises was to "coordinate and improve coopera· tion ofsenior staffs of fraternal armies and navies during joint military operations." The exercises also were announced in Moscow. -AP 
The cost ofmailing a first-class letter will go from 15 cents to 18 cents on March 22, the Postal Service said yesterday. The Board ofGovernors of the service, who had requested a 20-cent rate, took sharp issue with the Postal Rate Commission, a separate agency that on Feb. 19 approved the 18-cent rate instead. "To achieve a lower stamp today, the commission has chosen to ignore more than S1 bil· lion in revenue needs that will have to be collected in the near future," the governors said in a statement released without elaboration. The governors said they would ask the rate commission to reconsider its decision. Ifthat decision stands, the statement said, the Postal Service will soon ask for another rate hike. -AP 
Jeered by Canadian demonstrators, President Reagan met yesterday with Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau on problems that come between two historically friendly and interdependent neighbors. Reagan took the protests in stride, but they annoyed his host. Trudeau professed to love hecklers but appealed for his countrymen to show better manners during Reagan's 28-hour visit, his first presidential trip outside the United States. Recent actions by the new American president have aggravated disputes over interven· tion in Central America and an East Coast fisheries treaty. The two leaders, who had never met, sat down for a 15-minute introductory chat in Trudeau's oak-paneled office on Parliament Hill. Then they called in their aides for a discussion ofEl Salvador, East-West relations and the potential impact ofReagan's economic program on the United 
States' closest and largest trading partner. White House Press Secretary James S. Brady said Reagan and Trudeau did "95 percent of the talking." -AP 
Convicted murdererJames Brewer, 24, ofGary, Ind., will die in Indiana's electric chair April9 in Crown Point, Ind. under an order issued yesterday by a Lake Superior Court judge. The date of execution was announced less than 48 hours after Steven T. Judy, also 24, died in Indiana's electric chair, the first execution in the state in 20 years. Judy did not fight the court's death sentence and was executed shortly after midnight Monday. Judge James Clement announced the 
date ofApril9 for Brewer's execution after the Indiana Supreme Court acted Friday to uphold Brewer's murder conviction and death penalty. He was convicted in 1978 of the death ofSteven Skirpan, 29, of Gary, in December, 1977. The charges said Skirpan was killed as Brewer was breaking into his home. Kenneth Brooks, 24, also of Gary, entered a guilty plea in connection with that murder and was sen­tenced to 60 years in prison. -AP 
Notre Dame received $3,371,141 in grant 

a\\ards during the month of January for the support of new and continuing research projects, educational programs and service programs. The research grants include: 52,497,000 from the U.S. Dept. ofEnergy for continued research by the Radiation Laboratoy on the effects of radiation on matter under the direction of Dr. Robert H. Schuler, professor ofchemistry and head of the Laboratory; S 12 5,993 from the National Institutes of Health for studies on the intermediary metabolism of helminths, supervised by Dr. Howard J Saz, professor ofbioloy; S113,063 from the National Institutes of Health for research on parasitic helminths in vitro, coordinated by Dr. Paul P. Weinstein, professor of biology; S77,81 7 from the U.S. Air Force for design procedures for three dimensional wind tunnel contractions, directed by Dr. Stephen M. Batill, assistant professor ofaerospace and mechani· cal engineering; and 563,324 from the National Institutes ofHealth for research into the systhesis of anticancer germacranolide sesquiter­penes, directed by Dr. Conrad J. Kowalski. assistant professor of Chemistry. -The Obsert'er 
Mostly cloudy and cool today with a few snow flurries possible in the morning. Highs in the low 40s. Partly cloudy and cool tonight. Lows in the upper 20s to near 30. Becoming cloudy tomorrow with highs in the mid 40s. -AP 
·I 

Fast books or slow articles? 
Someone once defined journalism as "literature in a hurry," and I did not quite understand what the writer meant by the remark. Now I do. 
Not to belabor the death of Stephen Judy, but the latest execution has once again proved how unusual deaths spark the interest ofliterary agents. I think it safe to predict that a token movie or book, detailing theJudy story, will soon appear. 
When Utah murderer Gary Gilmore was executed in 1977, Norman Mailer penned The Executioner's Song, which perched atop the New York Times bestseller list many a week. Then of course, Helter Skelter, the Charles Manson saga, not only gained bestseller status, but also sent the Nielsen ratings soaring as a made-for­lV movie. 
Iwonder what writers will do withJohn Wayne Gacy. 
Certainly a presumed community pillar who sexually 
molested and murdered 33 teenage boys, burying them 
beneath his home no less, will sell. When police were 
digging in the Gacy house two years ago, it became 
necessary to rope off Gacy's entire block. People were 
driving by and lining the street for a glimpse of the 
gruesome undertaking. 

Ifthere is a fine line between fact and fiction, as cliche proclaims, there is a mere silken thread distinguishing journalism from literature. 
Scriptwriters have field dramatic portrayal ofthe trials of law students, typified the cinematic success which evolved into a series. 



Ofcourse, there were the Watergate books -every· thing from All the President's Men to the Nixon memoirs. While in the more glamorous world of show business, Mommte Dearest, Christina Crawford's hor· rendous account of her actress/mother Joan, certainly presented a slice of life quite typical of fiction, but for non fiction, it was another cup oftea entirely. 
Within the last month many news stories have whetted the appetites of literary agents. Jean Harris, convicted and imprisoned for killing the Scarsdale Diet doctor, initially said she would starve herself to death rather than live in prison. I have heard no update on whether or not the woman is eating, but the papers have said literary agents are lick­
ing their lips over her saga days dramatizing human and she is either planning to lives. Take, for instance, the tell it all, or have someone case oflinda Sarceno. This is else tell it all for her. Mary the Chicago woman whose Cunningham, the business fiance was comatose for woman who gained fame by months on end after a tragic resigning from the Bendix accident. To abridge a rather corporation, is also im· lengthy story, Linda spent mersed in literary negotia· those months talking to the tions. comatose man, baking his A couple of years ago, favorite meals and decorat· Gwendolyn Brooks, the ing his hospital room every poet laureate of Illinois, was holiday even though all the asked at a poetry reading medical specialists had how she consistently ac· 
delivered  hopeless quired fresh material.  
prognoses.  answered that she  
The  comatose  patient, picked up a  

however, miraculously regained consciousness. linda then proceeded to rehabilitate him, and now, two years after the accident, he is leading a normal life and the couple have a child. 
The movie and book people are anxious to tell the story, but fairy tales with happy endings do not sell in the literary world, just as happy events do not grace the nation's newspapers. We must have scandal, cynicism and wrongdoing. So the movie people who followed the Sarcenos wished to discard the poignant, touching saga -opting instead to flavor the story with alcoholic doctors with obnoxious bedside manners, con­temptuous affairs and the like. The couple could not be bought, so as of now, no movie or book is on the drawing board, according to the writer who covered the ordeal. 
News events constantly become movies and books. 

The China Syndrome, (intentionally or not is another matter entirely) closely parallelled the infamous Three Mile Island incident which familiarized the public with the drawbacks of nuclear power. The Paper Chase, a 
SUMMER STORAGE SPACE 
Special discount for I'DISMO students Securi~J Patrol Checks 
289-033& 
SILF LOOK STORAGE OF MCKII'LIY 816 last McKinley Mishawaka 

Design Editor................... Deirdre Murphy Desif?n Assistants .............. Lisa Bontempo 
Elizabeth Clay Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Edif.Qr .................... :::-::..... Lynne Daley Copy Editors .......................... Valerie Evans Tim Vercellotti Spurts Copy Editor............. Dave Dziedzic Typist............................... Michelle Kelleher Systems Control ..................... Marty Hyn{"s ND Day Editor ...................... Molly Woulfe Ad Design ............................... Woody & Co. Photographer............................ Helen Odar 
! 
·--;h>-;;;:rvar (~SPS 59~~~~~ publishtld Monday through Friday except during exam and vaca!ion periods. The Observer is pubiished by the students of Notre DarTie and Saint Mary's College Subscr iptious may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The 0bserver. P. 0. Box Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 48556 Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Indiana 46556. The Obnrver is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved 
She 
simply 

newspaper when her own well ofexperience ran dry. 
Even Shakespeare was concerned with "news," ifyou will, for he had theaters to fill and needed to appeal to the populace. Shakespeare not only kept a keen handle on human nature and gave people what they liked; he also kept a keen eye on the historical and social con­cerns of his time -spicing it all up a bit with poetic license. 
I always thought great writers needed great imagina­tions. Didn't the masters in the anthologies live in gar­rets and think great thoughts, creating characters as if they were designing clothes? Perhaps they just noticed the people of their times. Perhaps writers just need eyes. The world is getting so unbelievable that anything fictitious is probably the status quo somewhere. 
I think I finally understand why journalism can be likened to literature speeded up. 

-------·
----~ 
The Observer Wednesday, March 11, 1981 -page 3



PlACEMENT BUREJ\UJ'f 
, . . . Main Bulldinc 
...Crickets
NOTE: JI!ESE lfUERV!El!S lULL TAKE-PLACE THE WEEK AfTER SPRI~G BQ. 
SEE B£!QW FOR SPfCIEIC SIGN-UP INfORMATION. 
tm $~G!i--l,ll> PJ>RIOll STARTS loT 8:00 AM ro 1:00 l't TUESDAY IW !.A FORTON!! STUDl!IIT CZNTE!t. 
continuedfrom page 1
S!~l)f c:;O'N'l'UIIll!$ m:>M l:ilO PM TO 4.:3Q PM tllt$D.\'t A!IIP 81.00 AM til 4:30 1'!'1 lll!DNESDAY 'IHROUGII FRlllAY Ill !lOOM 213 ADKINISTMTION BUUJliNC BECI!INING MA!!C!! 10 FOR !NTERVl£W3 SCHEOULED t:Qll WCH 25-2§ "and 27 AfTI8 SrflOO·BJW I 
electrical impulses, and relay them 
YOU MUSt SlC!< ~· '(CUI. nn:U.V!EWS PERSO!I;\LLY, 
Mar 26 Thur 


I I I 
Mar 25 
'X
Wed . 
I~ ! 
I 
t~..lO r ,.. ·. .·!.. 
I , . · . I j .. ,. ·. < , .. ·.·.... ;
·········'·······t'·~·····!.··.....•··
1 
'S 
!.>.··· (:.· . \ 

. Allent:ion: 

on to the brain. All neurons are not alike. Esch IlltnQis 
ili>P!>:tllent of • Transertat ~u 
• found four types, each listening for B ill Ct•. 
I something different. One group lis­GUy ; • Atkinson Co tens for the mating song, a second 
B in C£, HE. Delete IIllA in Mgt. 
for the fight song. A third group lis­
Clait"ol,. T.lll'. 
tens for both, and the fourth picks up
lfdt' Cili" Products. lolllll!.\.. Sales RepresentetiV&tJ, 
l'fixhreat.:•i!lt>ea, Perm. Res. ·v~$a, vibrations such as feet trampling or a car rumbling by.
!iN<>hll eo . . 
l'b~tnlllecH•t1c.als. B in B~l. ,l'llar.aceut.i<:al. ealu. 
Each type of neuron, resembling
ltidweat. l'en~. Rea. Visa. 
vast rivers wih dozens of tributaries 
Gearb4n l!lduatT1es, Inc . . . . . 
branching off into all directions, is
.8 ill Clllh CE, EE, ME, I!E£0, Earth Sei. 
shaped differently. And, despite
LOyola tJiliv;,,;stcy; GUaUl;&te Sch<>ol Of·ll<lllioess All interested ac:ud;,nt:s• \ .•.,:.. ·: 
appearing like a maze of meandering 
lines, they are not designed at ran­
W.lker Resurch; In<:: 
BBA in Mkt:. dom. When cut at the base, each will regenerate to the original specific seot t Papu Co 
pattern. J~1ors in l!usiness Adm.inil>tration or Ac~ounting. S"""""r 
Scientists still do not know how
Management Intern. Career devel<>pment related· assignment 1u Acc<>unting. Location' Philadelphia, Pt.. Pen Res Vi,.,. neuronS change Vibrating SOUnd in-
Al..L IIIT!lU':sT&:D sruPEms. to electrical signals, which travel ACTIP~ •. PEACE :co~U>s/VIli'i:A . along the nerve to the brain, but U:30o-l:30 .;_ Room 114 Center for Continuing Education. Esch has been able to match specific
Film Show/Presentation. Question and 
Answer Periqd, electrical code words to the specific 
4:0Q-5;00 -Room lC, LaFortune Student Center, tones from the male's song. It is akin F1lo: show/Presentadon. Quest!<>n and to, but more .complex than Morse 
Az.s.:.er Pertad. 
code. 
This code breaking was done by inserting an electrode into the nerve itself, less than a micron in width. The electrode records the electrical signal and infuses the nerve with PLACIMINT ...... cobalt, a dye which enables Esch to actually see the nerve microscopi­
.. cally -like a river system on a map. For the first time Notre Dame 

JOBS 

~.,n.···.·:·················•·······•·t..····.··~.··········.·i:):(h ·•········• .ri·····•··.·.·. .· 
scientists can chart the nerve system while studying its function. They must work quickly, however, as in each cricket the nerve dies within five minutes of the electrode's im­plantation. 
Esch found that the cricket's ear can only register other cricket sounds and then only for mating purposes. One measure of sound is in oscillations per second-fre­quency or pitch, recorded as kiloHertz. A cricket's ear, Esch dis­covered, is extremely sensitive to certain pitches. They may hear very soft sounds at a certain pitch and miss louder sounds at other pitches. 
In other words, a cricket may hear a love song almost imperceptible to humans and not hear a car horn or 
.Fellow 
continuedfrom page 1 

to be the one who is available and willing to pay the expenses. This of· ten proves to be one ofthe last mem­bers on the list. The qualifications were added this year to alleviate this problem. 
The I 5 names that receive the Jar· gest following in today's balloting will be placed on a final ballot. The final vote will be held on Wednes­day, March 25. 

£tydenfs 

*PHOTOGRAPHERS* 

THE OBSERVER is organizing 
cu.aki> ·~ Sl'IU.Yn«; GO!If~ 1 INC. \. Senea DYe!: 200 ~-1t1a~t 111 lllin<~is 'and 

next year'S photo staff
aurroundins $tat<~a wi~h ~onnact ""'s<tuito a>rttrol a;,rvtcli'O>c .Ul operat:~ona an dl.apat~IU!d f!;'"" Roselle, Illinois offie.e. · 

V!PPLICA TIONS -name and phone 
Field iMl'<!l'tor, llackpack •prayu. Cuat0111er Snvi<::a, llup..rviloey a!ld Qwl!ity Control Pusomel al!d vartriiia 

-u;ork and photo experience
other p0&1tiona for l'lay &Ad Night C.eva. Adcliti<mal il1fon111tioo. ava11abb .at l'lacem'l!llt ~reau. 

-some example of previous work 
LOCATION; 

-drop offat 3rdfloor LaFortune b_y 3/30 
SALA!IY: Dil)' ~l'<llt: $3-.~Q per hours plUB tJ.me &ad It for OVe-rtfW~h ALL PRESENT PHOTGRAPHERS 
.Right=. t:~_->,: -~:3-~:·15' ''"' _l:t:. ~t-··-,' lf· tt' "' 11 Plu& bonus •. 

MUST REAPPLY 
Weclnesc!ay, Marc.h 11• 1931. 

An_y questions call John at 1 715 or 3106 
So You're Finally Going To Be 11 


ND Student Union 
presents:

Mike Muellerleile I 
Finally we can go have some fun --HURRY UP! 

-The Penguin Woman 
BeepBeepBeepBeepBeepBeepBeep... 
telephone ring. 
Fortunately, the pitch to which the female's ear is most sensitive and the pitch of the male's song coincide. The mating song, depend· ing upon the species, is about 4 kiloHertz while the fighting song is about 16 kiloHertz. 
While this system is obviously more complex in humans, Esch's work and new technique represent a big step in understanding the ear, nerve processes, and how sound directly affects behavior. Even the human species is affected biological­ly by certain sounds. For example, a female scream at a certain pitch in­variably raises goose bumps on those who hear it. 
Now hiringfor management positions in new excitin!( compan_y. vidio disc, salar_y & communications 259-3156 Will Train 



SPECIAL 
Mar. 12, 13, 14 

From ND CIRCLE 
To 

CHICAGO O'HARE 

EXPRESS! 

Depts 6:15 am. Circle 11:20 am. 2:50pm. 
Arrives 8:15am. O'Hare 1:20 p.m. 
4:50 p.m. ro Your lndividuQI Airline GQte Return (Mar. 22, 23) 

Depts 12:15 pm. O'Hare 4:45 p.m. 
8:00 p.m. 

(Bo Jrd Lower Level CJrs0n s .:ircle Rest(']urr:mt) 
S200ne Way 538 round trip 
Buy Your Ticket From Your Driver 
INDIANA MOTOR BUS 


---Green Beer 
Jameson Specials 


Live Music 
Jim Daly and Friends in the Pub. 







Senior Bar St. Patties Night 

Thurs. March 12 

r-~--­
l I 
{ i { 
,. 



Editorials 

Wednesday, March 11, 1981 -page 4 
Outside Wednesday 

GunS, Bu~er, andNotre Dame? 
Reagan at commencement? 
Oh boy, oh boy, they've done it this time. I'm really mad now. Really mad. So mad that if I was graduating I wouldn't be graduat­ing. I mean I'm glad that this isn't my commencement ceremony. I'm disgusted. I mean the nerve. Look out everybody, "Tin .sol­diers and Reagan coming. we're 
finally  on  our  own."  Those  
hypocrites.  
I'll  admit  it,  that's  what  I  

thought when I initially heard that Ronald Reagan, the President of the United States, was coming to Notre Dame as the commence­ment speaker. I don't think it is any secret that I'm no big admirer of Reagan, and for awhile I was so mad I couldn't see straight. Then I went to bed to "sleep on it" and when I woke up, I wasn't mad anymore. I thought about it some more and I still didn't get mad, I had a much different feeling: I was disappointed. 
Yes I'm disappointed. Even though I understand that it's the president we're talking about here; and even though it's a tremendous coup for Notre Dame and its famous president, and even though 65 percent of the stu­dents and 90 percent of the parents will think that this event ranks right up there with USC games, Knute Rockne: All­American. and Jesus; even though it will make Notre Dame that much more prestigious in the 
eyes of the world; and even though I'm sure Father Hcsburgh will explain it all away with some statement like ··Notre Dame is a 

1forum for exchange in the world community and we honor all viewpoints," I'm disappointed. 
I'm disappointed for several reasons. First. there is the history :of one Ronald Reagan, former ac­
tor. TV shyster, governor of lCalifornia, and current president of the United States. Yes. Reagan is president and it is really neat and everything to have the presi­dent speak here, but I cannot bury the past of Reagan so quickly or easily. The man who will speak is the same man who twelve yt:ars ago articulated such choice phrases (about students and uni­
versiti-es in general) as "If it takes a blood bath to shut up the stu­dents, let's get it over with." and "The state should not subsidize intellectual curiousity." This is 
·the same man who is now in the process of dismantling student loan programs and several other programs that are important to students and university ··om­munities in the name of "waste." This is a man who prides himself on being anti-intellectual and who, as governor of California, used to revel in baiting students and threatening to cut university budgets. I don't think Reagan cares about or respects univl!r­sities enough to merit being the commencement speaker here. 
But that's not all. I remember sitting through a rather lengthy lecture last year In which Fr. Hesburgh talked about "building the third world," "the importance of a unified world community," and called himself .. a citizen of the world." Any arts and letters junior who took Core Course last year can back this up. I also recall countless statements by Fr. Hesburgh against nuclear proliferation, his role as a "Christian conscience," and .. Notre Dame's Catholic mission in the world." 
I've heard so much talk about Notre Dame being ''the univer­sity with a conscience," and being dedicated to "Christianity and the ministry of Jesus Christ" that I can't see how the same uni­versity can invite Ronald Reagan, the man who is accelerating con­flict in El Salvador, and gearing for the largest "peace-time" ('?) military build-up in American his­tory. He is the same man who opposes gun-control, endorses capital punishment, shows a blatant disregard for the problems of groups as diverse as coal miners and students, and who is (according to a top aide) prepar­ing to announce a draft "when it is politically. expedient." (i.e. this summer when school lets out and the students have no unified base from which to protest). This is the man who will come to Notre Dame and speak to the seniors as they take one of the most impor­tantstepsoftheirlives. Whatishe 

Doonesbury 
N&Vf.R. MOl<£. TH& 
PR£<3/0ENT HAS A51<Ef) M; 7D JOIN TH£. CIJ(JNCIL-OF~ gCONOMIC 1
1
AOV/5&~! ~ 
\ 
f-. 
~·) 
. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the U:1iversiry of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Collese. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and leuers are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through leuers, is encouraged. 

going to talk about? How to win a nuclear war? Why we need the MX and a strong El Salvador? 
On the other hand, it will be a good opportunity for him to con­gratulate the lucky seniors who got out in time. before all the loan money dries up. Then he can come back next year and tell the rest of us how well his economic program has worked even though we and our parents had a hell of a time paying for it. 
Another aspect of this affair that hot hers me is the creation of a circus atmosphere that cheapens both the commencement exercise and a Notre Dame degree. Having a Knute Rockne: All-American reunion is a great idea, but graduation is not the place for it. If this was going to be some kind of dinner or rally at the ACC I 
would be all for it, because it is cute, and if it could be pulled off it would be interesting. It would be yet another classic chapter in the legend of Notre Dame. Gradua­tion, however. is serious busi­ness. Also, what are the qualifications of Reagan and Pat 0' Brien for receiving honorary 

degrees from here? The only qualification I can think of is that they were both in a movie about Notre Dame. and to me, that is not enough. People work very hard for those degrees, or do something very special and receive it in honor of their ac­hievement. I don't think one should be given out to say "thanks for making Notre Dame famous." I'm not saying that there will never be an occasion when Ronald Reagan should receive the honor of being the commencement speaker and receiving an honorary degree; I just don't think that being presi­dent of the United States is an automatic qualifier for such con­sideration. Reagan is a bit too controversial and has not yet proved himself as committed to the kind of ideals that Notre 
Dame allegedly stands for. 
In the end, I don't hold Reagan ;IS the villian in all of this. If I were him I'd want to speak here too. It is an honor. Rut I just don't see him as an example of "Christian conscience." I'm sure there are people who feel that Reagan does 
Garry Trudeau 



Anthony Walton 
represent the ideals of Notre Dame, but I haven't heard Fr. Hesburgh come out for war in El Salvador, capital punishment, the MX. or the B-1. The only issue on which I see Reagan agreeing with "Notre Dame Christians" is abortion. and this is largely by coincidence. If Reagan does stand for true Christian and Notre Dame values, let's invite Alexan­der Haig too and have a real guns, 
butter, and Notre Dame weekend. Forgive my sarcasm, but I just don't see the event as part of the Notre Dame of Tom Dooley. Dorothy Day. or Bill Toohey. Or as having the sanc­tion of the bishops that came out against any involvement in El Sal­vador. Notre Dame belongs to them too. 
Or maybe not. Maybe that's why I'm disappointed. I have al­ways seen Fr. Hesburgh a~ a man concerned with the future and building a better world. I don't kow why he has invited a man who is looking nostalgically at the past and promising to "make America great again," whatever that means or entails. I'm willing to -give Reagan a chance to live down his past, and he has earned his opportunity to lead the country. But right now, his only connection with Notre Dame is 

Managing Editor ............................................. Mack Rust F.ditorla/s Edttor.................................Michael Onufrak Senior Copy Editor ........................ Mary Fran Callahan Executive Ne~ Editor............................TomJackman News Editor ..................................................Lynne Daley SMC Executi11e Editor ............................. Margie Brassil SMC News Editor ......................................... Mary Leavitt Sports Editor ..............................................Beth Huffman 
PbotoEditor...................................................)ohn Macor 
Business Manager .....................................Greg Hedges Controller ...........................................................Jim Rudd Adr,ertising Manager ......................................Mark Ellis Adr•ertising Sales .~anager ............... Michael MeSally Circulation Manager ................... Beth Hackett Production J1anager ............. ...............John McGrath 
Ihe ObserYer____ ··-·· ________:-==-=~===== 
To 



Cantpus 
• 
12:1 5 p.m. -lenten mass; fr. griffin, Ia fortune rathskeller, aU welcome. 

•2-5p.m. 
-nd tax assistance program; Iafortune center, sponsored by college of busi­ness adm. and dept. of accoun­tancy. 

•3:30 
p.m. -lecture; group technology, ms. s. jane ford, lockheed georgia co., 303 cus­hing. 

• 
3:30 p.m. chemical engineering seminar; separa­tion processes utilizing super critical fluids, michael e. paulaitis, u. of delaware, 356 fitzpatrick. 

•4 
p.m. -earth science lecture; oil and gas exploration in a domestic onshore basin: the williston basin, elliott simonberg, sr. geologist, amoco production company, denver, 1 0 I earth sciences. 

•4:15 
p.m. -history lecture; jacob burckhardt: history as humanity, prof. m.a. fitzsimons, nd, mt"m. library lounge. 

•4:20 
p.m. -physics collo­quium; where do quarks come from? dr. g.f. chew, lrl (berkeley), 118 nsh. 

•4:30 
p.m. -discussion; op­portunities in the army for lawyers and medical service of­ficers, capt. placek and major roberson, 2nd floor rotc bldg. 

•7 
p.m. -business meeting; knights ofcolumbus, k ofc hall. 

•7 
p.m. -film; dr. strangelove, mem. library aud., admission free. 

•7 
p.m. -film; the circus ( 1928 ), arch. 202, S I admission. •7, 9:15, 11:30 p.m.-film, odessa file, engr. au d., S1 admis­sion. 

•s 
p.m. -magic show; knights of columbus present magician michael "the magnificent" weber. admission free. 


ISO holds One Earthpre-sale 
I 

The International Student Office is having a pre-sale of items which will be sold in the One Earth Marketplace in April. Come to the Office of International Student Af­fairs in the basement of LaFortune Student Center if you would like to purchase a shamrock bracelet or a Connemara marble penal rosary. 
Today's Quote 
Today is not too late to start being what you had always wanted to be. 
T.S. Eliot 



ACROSS 27 Confine 1 Perpetrate 30 Evaluate a trick on 32 Odd notion
The Daily Crossword 
6 Fireman's 34 Fish eggs 
need 35 Annuls 10 Hastened 38 Pack away 14 Jagged 39 Job-seek­15 Tel-er's page 16 Racing 42 Fast planes 
distance 43 Insect 17 Debussy !"tages 
opus 44 Cereal 18 Woe 45 -Ia Ia 19 Verve 46 Upright and 20 Biblical spinet 
high priest 50 Museof 21 Newspaper poetry opinion 52 Article 24 Bottle 54 Unaspirated part 55 Kind of 26 Summer: Fr. puzzle 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

3/11/81




C3l~=============================~==e=d=n=es=d=a=y=,M==a=rc=h==1=1,=1=9=8=1=-==p=a=g=e==5 
Michael Molinelli 
...r WDUL. D TRY 17J :SEDUCE 
THAT VEXINC:t Bf?~ETIE 
I'Ve 13EEN LUSnNGt AFIER 
IN iijE DINI~(f HALL 
59 Direction 23 Decorate 
letters a cake 60 Create 25 Composer 62 Ogle Jerome and 63 Monitoring family 
device 28 Satellite 65 Sudden 29 Church seat 
thought 31 Collection 66 Old 32 Fruit 67 White decay 
poplar 33 Onewho 68 Nobleman gets away 69 Particle 36 Ferber 70 Walked in 37 Silly one 
water 88 Cordage fiber DOWN 39 Last 
1 City in 40 One on the Montana offensive 2 Priestly 41 Numerical 
garments prefix 3 Newspaper 42 DiMaggio funnies 45 Excessively 4 Take advan-47 Required 
tage of 48 Store sign 5 Withered 49 Become 6 Addiction enraged 7 Egg-shaped 51 Walk 8 Farm 52 Bird sound 
building 53 Throng 9 At any 56 Bridge 
time triumph 10 Malign 57 Lily 11 From-58 Depict 
post 60 Unit of 12 High note length 13 Playroom 61 Fuss 22 Give up 64 Sleeveless 
hope garment 
Mud Volleyball Registration Tues. March 11 & Wed. March 12 6 ­8 pm in LaFortune Ballroom (same place as bookstore signups) Rosters -any 6 ­8 players -with limit of 2 per team from club volleyball -must list players and co-captains name and phone number -you may play on only 1 team I $1 entry fee play begins April 6 only J28 teams, so register soon Same place: Signups for inner-tube water polo -only taking 25 more teamSr-hurry  SPRING BREAK SPECIAL TO O'Hare To O'Hare March 12, 1981 6:00p.m. Loads at Circle 6:15p.m. Loads SMC LeMans Bus Stop To O'Hare March 13, 1981 12:30 p.m. &4:00p.m. toads at Circle 12:45 p.m. & 4:15p.m. Loads SMC LeMans Bus Stop SPECIAL FARE SPECIAL TIME 25 Percent Discount $15 One Way Hourly Service from O'Hare March 22, 1981 Every Hour LOADS AT O'HARE Lower Level Carson Circle Restaurant Tickets on sale Maich 5 & 1 0 in LaFortune Activities Center Between noon and 5 p.m. Call283-3031, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; 283-6283 after 5 p.m.  

The Observer Wednesday, March 11, 1981 -page 6 
CRtb gMc~ 
welcomes all ND -SMC students less than 10 min. from campus 
"!. ncl. 23 at 8 1 tt~rswel}t 
~~77-.1143 
Specializing in: 
Hickory S:.11Jki?d Rih" and Rib Tirs. 3roa~tcd Ch1cK.e1,, Pr•)::Iste•j Po:atoes, Sandwiches. ;.~nd now '-)iua 

TUES. THRU THURS. CHICKEN DINNER SPECIAL $2.69 
St. Patrick's Day Special Green Beer ·· 25• cup 
Hours Tues. thru Thurs. 
IIAM-9PM 

Fri. IIAM-IOPM Sat. 4PM -IOPM Closed Sun & Mon. 
Men's basketball 

Off-Campus victorious 
By DONNA WITZLEBEN 
Sports Writer 

A blocked shot by Off Campus' john Buzaid gave Off Campus a 49­48 win last night over Howard to force a one game playoff tonight. 
Howard, population 165, going for its third consecutive Interhall Basketball title, opened up a nine point lead in the first quarter. But Off Campus fought back and scored nine unanswered points to tie the game. It was fairly close the rest of the half with Howard always in the 
lead. The score at the halfwas 27-24 in Howard's favor. Off Campus opened the second 
half by switching from man-to-man to a 2-3 zone. And with 5:30 remain­ing in the third period Off Campus took their first lead, 34-33. Howard then outscored OffCampus to take a 39-36 lead going into the fourth quarter. 
Baskets were exchanged, includ­ing an 18-foot jumper by Howard's 
John "Philly"  Leonard. Then with  
Off  Campus  leading  by  two,  
Howard's  Sophomore  Bob  

Keenehan, "Mr. Bookstore" of 1980, drove and scored to tie the game, but was charged with an offensive foul. Off Campus hit one free throw and was fouled on the rebound. This time Off Campus' high scorer, john 

Carlos, cashed in on both free throws and gave OffCampus a 49-46 lead with 20 seconds left in· the game. Howard's Leonard then sank a 20 foot jumper to end the scoring. Howard got the ball back, but failed 
to score. 
"We knew they were a fastbreak 
team." said Off Campus' joe Meyer. 
"They ran a lot so we had to slow it 
down. We played very aggressively 
in the second half. We'll try and do 
the same things tomorrow." High 
scorer for the game and Howard was 
Bob Keenehan with 17 points. john 
Carlos lead Off Campus with 16 
points. Tonight's deciding game will 
be at 7:00 in the Pit at the ACC. 

Grace captured the division B In­terhall Basketball championship with an easy 49-29 win over Keenan. The game was close at the half with Grace leading by six, 21-1 5. Then in the third quarter Grace's Greg Rus­sell exploded with nine points to finish off Keenan. With an 18 point lead going into the fourth, Grace eased its way to the championship. High scorer ofthe game was Grace's Rich Amberg ~ith 15 points. High scorer for Keenan was Bob Battle with seven points. 
Netters head west 
By MICHAEL ORTMAN 
Sports Writer 
California, here we come! 
The Irish men's tennis team is off 
to the sunny west coast for a 1 0-day 
workout/vacation during which 
Notre Dame, 5-2 on the year, will 
face a pair oftop 20 schools and the 
alma matter of a former President 
among the opponents scheduled in 
as many days. 
Notre Dame opens its California 
swing at Whittier College on Friday 
afternoon at 2 p.m. PST. Whittier's 
biggest claim to fame is its most, 
prestigious alumnus, Richard M. 
Nixon. The next day, the Irish take 
on another pair of Division III op­
ponents, Claremont College and 
Pomona College. Then on Sunday, 
Tom Fallon's Irish face Cal State L.A. 
before their Monday showdown 
with national power Southern Cal. 
The Trojans were ranked fourth in 
the nation by the Intercollegiate 
Tennis Coaches Association poll 
before the season. These two 
schools met in Los Angeles two 
years ago, and the Trojans took a 6-0 
decision. 
After the Southern Cal match, 
things should let up slightly for the 
Irish as they are scheduled to play 
Loyola Marymount Tuesday, Cal 
State-Long Beach on Wednesday and 
Point Lorna College on Friday, 
March 20. 
Saturday (March 20) the Irish run into another top 20 contender, San Diego. The Toreros were rated 18th in the pre-season listing by the ITCA. The next day, the Irish close out their western swing at San Diego State. 
"This will be an opportunity for us to work on a lot of different aspects of our team," says Fallon. "We have several different types of teams on the schedule -teams we should beat, teams that should beat us, and teams that may play too close to call." 
Fallon will also be looking to 
solidify his team's troubled doubles 
situation which has produced a dis­
appointing four team points out of a 
possible 1 5 over the last five 
matches. 

r---­
... 



~~(),-tSciJ==,..==i=~~S========~====================w==ed=n=es=d=ay='=M=~=c=h=11=,=19=8=1=-==pa=g=e~7 
both  Marchiori  and  Fowler  were  
once  the  last goalte nders  cut  by  
Lefty  Smith  for  the  Irish  varsity  


was brilliant -as he has been all this season was to third-place Holy tinuation of the classic one," said Schlaff with a smile. "We season. Marchiori emerged from the Cross (5-2), advanced to the finals Alumni-Dillon athletic rivalry, knew we had a job to do and we did pile with the Dillon Hall flag draped by defeating North Quad runner-up which is now in its 50th year of bit­it." •

Kelly Tripucka 
over him, a la Jim Craig in the 1980 Stanford, 3-1, on Monday night. It terness and hatred. And they did it welL The victors 



~lassifie 
s 
Nobody is uglier than Jell Jeffers. To Maui, Bob, Mike, Mike, Ken, Tom, BUMPERSTICKER
LOST-IN SMC CAFETERIA-ITALIAN NEED RIDE TO PHOENIX. WILL Dale. Chns. and all of my lnends: (1) WHEN YOU SAY NOTRE DAME.
GRAMMAR BOOK · small, paperback SHARE USUAL. CALL MARK 3303 Thank you lor making my 21st YOU'VE SAID IT ALL .
[-NOTICES 
lost Monday, March 2 -VERY IMPOR­
. . . .. . . ..... 

Need R1de To DALLAS!!! For Mid­birthday a very spec1al day. I'm very (2) WHEN YOU SAY IRISH. YOU'VETANT THAT IT IS RETURNED -Desperately need ride lo Philly or
PROFESSIONAL TYPING. Term semester BreaK Call Dave at 3306 glad lor ha~ing good friends like you. SAID IT ALL"
REWARD OFFERED. CALL 8477 or 41-South Jersey lor spring break. Willpapers. theses. etc. Tape transcription. 
You are No.1!!! I hope that you have a $2.00 each. Send check or money or­4606 upon finding. share usual. Call Fran 8559. An~· time.
Last year's same low prices. All work HIGGINS and SCOOP: great break--believe me, we all need it. der to: guaranteed. aard~ark automatic solu­Control knows too well the obnoxious You guys are special and I'll never for­'IRISH"
Found: 1 pair of brown plastic-rimmed I DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TOions. 289-6753. 
beast lor it to go on FOREVER! get you all. P.O. BOX 3364 George CHAPEL HILL, N.C. 27514 glasses in ladies rest room. 1st floor NEW HAVEN, CT FOR SPRING BREAK 
O'shag. Name inside: Judith Contact CAN LEAVE ANYTIME. WILL SHAREUSED & OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS PRO BURKE FOR UMOC P.S. Mau1, you'll lo~e Aliquippa and
Pam 1361 to claim. DRIVING AND EXPENSES. PLEASE
bought, sold, searched. ERASMUS LADIES! staying at school dur.ng the
PRO BURKE FOR UMOC Pittsburgh. I'm so glad that you will beCALL HEATHER AT 6232. 
break because of no ndes? Well do notBOOKS. Tues-Sunday, 12-6. 1027 E. PRO BURKE FOR UMOC coming back with me. 
despair because Beres and Luts will be Must talk girllrienc out of having anWayne (One block south of Eddy­here. Call3045 or 3052 and together we
L_FORRE~

Jefferson intersection) L YONITES ...COACH ED THE CHEESE.
ABORTION. Need ride to Northern Jer­can make lhts break one theRocco DeGrasse for UMOC O'MALLEY WISHES TO ANNOUNCE A sey lor BREAK. Call Michael-1615. 
GREATEST EVER. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND With a name l1ke Rocco. 1s it any won­SOCCER MEETING FOR ALL THOSE
AVAILABLE NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2 ···········
Emergency loans for NO students. $20-der? INTERESTED. TONITE, IN THE
Need ride to Dallas area for break. Will
FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES 234 2626 WORLD CRUISES! A COTTAGE ON
$200. One percent interest. Due in one KITCHEN. CHECK THE BULLETIN
share cost and driving. Call Mike at LIDO FOR THE ENTIRE SUMMER! Amonth. Open 11:30-12:30. M-F. Base­ATTN. JUNIORS BOARD FOR THE TIME. AS HE SAYS, 
3105.

Large house for rent, furnished. MOUNTAIN CHALET! I wish I hat I could
ment of LaFortne. Final day to seniors Sign up today lor your SENIOR BE THERE OR BE SQUARE.Suitable lor 5. Will be a~ailable June 1. pay you enough to take me home that
to apply is Friday. March 13. YEARBOOK PHOTO by calling x3557
Need 3 rides to St. Louis area over
Call232-4412. these could be yours. I can't, but I CAN 
or STOP by 2c LaFortune (off the ball­Maureen F.
break. Call Tish 4263 SMC share gas and dnving to So. Cal, LosINSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS room between 9-5). Thanks lor · stopping by' Keenan 
RINGS $20-$85 OR MORE. WE MAKE Houses for rent 81-82 school year and Angeles area. I travel light and will wor­
last Friday night I had a great time, andHELP! Need a ride home to Eastern

summer. Close to campus, gd. end. ship the ground you drive on Call BOB
HOUSE CALLS. 255-2402. Bill, Skip. & Scooter. I hope we can get together again soon.
Pennsylvania for spring break--last exit
turn. Call287-5361 alterS p.m. at4521
............... ........ ...... . One final toast (Sorry it's flat -the MikeC
off 1·80. Willing to share usual. Call 
.........................
PROFESSIONAL TYF'ING. Con~enient 
cork got lost) Anyway. heres to: to Notre Dame. 272-7623. 
Kathat7915. 

GET AHEAD-JOIN THE CREW! NOW!!
Sweet smelling roses. legendary din­DILLON HOCKEY IS No.1 
ners in ·sweat" attire under the arches. DILLON HOCKEY IS No. 1 NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR BK
I NEED RIDERS! 
classy resturants where they ser~e PRO BURKE IS THE UGLIEST
[-_-wA_~~eo-J 
ride back to

FOOD AND COCKTAIL WAITRESSES; Anyone who needs a PRO BURKE IS THE UGLIEST Jersey won't be the same over Break
water. dancing wllh deadweights,WAITERS , HOSTESS, AND CASHIER I MTHEWORST without BRUCE.!
Notre Dame on Sunday, March 22, and ·thrill" ndes in ugly Rent-A-Cars, pop­who li~es in Atlanta, Chattanooga, 
WW.ol.

WOULD LIKE EMPLOYEES WILLING riders needed to Cleveland area, corn breaks. G.TH.B.A. m Mich. 360's,
Nashville. LOUISVIlle. Indianapolis, or
TO STAY THROUGH THE SUMMER leaving Thursday or Friday call John at reading the W.S. Journal, music frozen C·VIEW LADIES, 
anywhere 1n-between those cities,APPLY IN PERSON CAPTAIN ALEXAN­1143 1n time. looking for a sunrise through I HOPE THAT YOUR VACATION IS Ann c. get a clue love SS t3 
please call Scoop at 1772. or at home
DERS MOONRAKER,3-5 PM WEEK­......... the clouds. VERY ENJOYABLE AND THAT IT IS
during break at (404) 49t-1294. I'll be 
Bernadette. takmg a statton wagon back to NO soDAYS,300 E. COLFAX. DO NOT CALL! AIDE NEEDED FROM INDIANAPOLIS T.I.C. you· queerb.rds"-ALSO VERY RELAXING. THIS WILL BE I told you that I would lind out.
TO NO AFTER BREAK WILL SHARE Cheers! YOUR LAST PERSONAL BEFORE WE
I'll have lots of room. and I'm Love XXX OVERSEAS JOBS -Summer-year USUAL. CALL 1254 Katie, Colleen. & Barb ALL VENTURE OFF TO ALL PARTS OF
notoriously cheap. so it won't cost you
round. Europe. S.Amer.. Australia. THE COUNTRY. BE THINKING OF ME
much. So, don't delay, call today!!I
Asia. All fields. $500-$1,200 monthly. CICHY IS ICKY! WHEN YOU'RE SIPPING A FEW COOL Rex and Doug
Need ride to Detroit area 3-12 Thu. Call 

Nothmg lasts lore11er 4867SMC ride Cincinnati
Sightseemg. Free info Wr11e IJC. Box VOTE STEVE ·Too-Many-Tackles" ONE'S NEAR THE POOL I'LL 
52-IN4. Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. Desperately need to CICHY for UJOC PROBABLLY BE DOING THE SAME. Espec1ally with those two. YCCCT 
this week--can leave anytime. Call 
........ LOVE Y A, THE MAN 
R1ders needed: N.Y.C. area to N.D. 3-Mark, 3207. 

ATTENTION DOMERS: NEED RIDE TO DES MOINES THURS If glasses and tenn1s shoes really turn
22. Call Frank 1228 or NY 946-1893 . . .. . . . -. . -' . . . . -. . . -. . . ' . . . . . .... . . ' . . . . .' ..... .... . . . ... . . .. . 
It appears that Colleen MurphysOR FRI a.m. CALL ~1332 you ofl. IF YOU'VE EVER SEEN AN UGLIER
Need a ride to Mmnesota for break. Call bark 1s worse than her bite. for alter... .... 
VOTE BILL CLARK for UMOC MAN THAN PRO BURKE. YOUNeeded: R1de to St. Louis lor Spring. Kevm 1177 
much abuse she has yet to respondCall Gail ill41-4792. Thanks.
A 'HOW TO BUY OR SELL THE BUSI­PROBABLY CAN'T SEE ANY LONGER How typ1cal' All talk and no action'NESS OPPORTUNITY" WORKSHOP lndtan Men ol516 & 522 Flanner, (Tom. PRO IS REALLY UGLY. LISTEN. IVE
R1de to cleveland needed on fnday or
May 2nd, Notre Dame Center for Tony. Mitch. & Da~e) KNOWN THE MAN FOR ALMOST 4 Nobody gets any. not even Big All And Are you gomg t:> the East Coast for saturday, will shart. expenses. Call
Continuing Educ. For reservation call The htghlight of our Saturday eve­YEARS AND I CAN HARDLY SEE ANY don., thmk he d1dn t try. 
break? I need a ride anywhere east for 8156233-7200 nmg was the great pow-wow in your MORE MAKE SURE YOU SAVEbreak. lli~e in Connecticut but will take 0 WHY IS PAT CONKLIN SO UGLY?

······ ............... ............ . 
room! Can't wa1tlor Chicago & RHPS! THOSE PENNIES FOR any nde east W1ll share usual. Call DESPERATE NEED OF RIDE TO NEW
Unlimited mcome as you grow with We have to do th1s more often! PRO BURKE PRO BURKE PRO BURKE A HIS FACE CAUGHT ON FIRE AND HE 
Brian. 8394 ORLEANS WILL SHARE EXPENSES 
TRIED TO PUT IT OUT WITH AN ICE CALL BETSY SMC 4432 Neo Life. For appointment. call Bill Lo~e. THE UGLIEST MAN OF CAMPUS!!!! 
McDonald at 259-6959. PICK!
The L.A. Women. VOTE PRO Need nde to Norllok, VA or Washmg­PAT CONKLIN FOR UMOCDenise and Lauren . . . . . . . . . . .....
ton, O.C. Will pay. Callt382-Randy. NEED RIDE FROM BOSTON TO NO AF­PAT CONK LIN FOR UMOC Le Antique Consignment Shop, South P.S. Don·t know what wed do up here OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS PROTECT
TER BREAK. WILL SHARE DRIVING
Bend Ave. at Notre Dame Ave. Bar ar­wtthout you guys! YOUR VALUABLES!
Need r.de to Des Memes lor spring AND ALL EXPENSES. CALL MIKE SHOE . DOESN'T FIT IN THE OB­tifacts. books. boltles. m1sc. items. OC. Storage
break. Please call Martma, 1284 3549. 

SERVER' BRING BACK THE
Lauren, Stepan Center OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS Wed. & Thurs. PEANUTS!
Desperately need nde to NYC. Call Jim, NEED RIDE TO D.C. AREA Thurs. alte;­You·re the greatest roomte & fnend I 
PROTECT YOUR VALUABLES! 5-?p.m
could ever ask for! Hope your 19th was 
O.C. Storage 1159 noon or later Call Pete at 1184 SPP.Ihere·s nc need to 
one you'll remember.
anytime. 

fear!UNDERDOG 1s here·ll'Wed. & Thrus. Lo~e. (Sponsored by Student Government)
JUDE QUINN lor UNARC!

5:00-7:00 p.m. 
DMD LoUie. thanks lor the two part1es ..
(sponsored by Student Go~ernment) 
m •• •• 

I PERSONALS 
xxxxxxxxo

Insecure about being short? Join the 2 Bruce believes 1n ERASMC-ND Society of Midgets. C&C 0
fOR SALE ] 

Annlanderssays. vote DEBI
ILOST/FOUND l [ 
Ha~e a problem? Can't sleep? Can't Look B---h. Q: What follows locomot1ves m the forUMOC 
work? Can·n Killed anyone recently? St. Mary·s rocks and you know ill YL•kon? LOST A b1ology notebook: th1s is cru­A:Acamoose?! The 2-inch Jersey Devil 
MUST SELL Senior Formal bid. Call Constipated? Fall down and go boo-Party 'til ya puke"
Cial to my career. If found please return He inJured the mnocent Se1d
Nano (Thanks to M1ke Ortman, derailed as he
Mike at 1795. boo?

to Mark at 305 Sorin or call 8542. Well, all you ha~e to do is IS, for that b1t of transcontmental So Deb Cm and Lis came to the rescue REWARD!!! humor.) So BRUCE
GET COUNSELING! 
Loser Nan, 
1972 VW Beelle Good ConditiOn. Call 
DIED

. .................. . Why is ror room done 1n RED? Moose Control
7013 days. 616-699-7176. niles. 

DIED HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MIKE!!! DIED FOUND: Brown warm-up top, in the 
Volunteer Services van. Call Mike, Bill "Gnzz" Nellis!--A true double­
Day 7: BRUCE HELD HOSTAGE! 

You're Amazmgl!l
1652 bagger! 
by Tht Ohsert·er ,wd The ltrroouled Prn r 

Notre Dame's Water Polo Club will begin practice Monday, March 23, from 4-6 p.m. at the Rockne Memorial. For more information contact Pat McDivitt at 8650. 
Ticketsfor Notre Dame's Saturday debut in the NCAA tourney in Providence sold out yesterday at 12:30 p.m. Ticketapplications for next weekend's East Regional in Atlanta, however, will remain available throughout this week until the supply is exhausted. Students must pay $28 for the regional ticket, which covers both Thursday and Saturday games next week. Ifthe Irish advace to Atlanta, students will be able to pick up their tickets at the Omni will-call windows. If the Irish fail to advance, students will be reimbursed upon return from spring break. There is a one-ticket limit per student. ID's must be presented both at the time of application and at the game site in At­lanta. 
The deadlinefor sign-ups for interhall men's and women's softball and basketball, as well as baseball and graduate softball is March 13. Rosters must be turned in to the non-varsity office at the ACC. 

Women's basketball • I 
B-P takes crown 
By MIKE MONK after that. On defense they utilized a consistently forced Farley into Sports Writer tenacious full-court press and an taking the outside shot as the taller agressive 1-3-1 zone to force Fade} B-P'ers out-rebounded the runner­
Breen-Phillips Hall captured the into committing 11 turnovers. up team by a considerable margin. women's interhall basketball cham­"We just weren't prepared for that Farley I attempted a comeback of pionship last night, defeating Farley I 1-3-1 defense," a frustrated Missy sorts in the fourth period. Taking a in the finals, 29-22. Sharp-shooting Sorapure said after the game. "And page from the 8-P playbook, they ex­B-P guard Jan Schlaff led all scorers they were too quick on the full­ecuted an effective full-court press with 14 points. Missy Sorapure and court press." and outscored the winners 12-7. But Eileen Rakochy were the high­With B-P leading at half-time 12-6, it proved too little, too late. scorers for Farley with six points Farley switched from man-to-man Farley I, which defeated Farley II each. coverage to a 2-1-2 zone. But it in the semi-finals, finishes the season 
From the opening tip-off B-P took didn't fool B-P, and by the end ofthe with a 7-4 record. Breen-Phillips, af­control of the game. On their first third period they pulled out to a ter their victory over Lewis Hall in possession, Schlaff drove down the commanding 22-10 lead on shootig the semi-finals and last night's cham­lane to score on a lay-up, and the by Schlaff and guard Kathy pionship win, end the season at 8-3. champs never relinquished the lead McMahon, who tallied six points. 
"The zone defense wasn't a 
problem for us because we've been ­
practicing against against it all week. 
We just passed the ball around the
.Dillon 

perimeter until we saw the opening 
for the good shot," Schlaffexplained was a lackluster effort on the part of after the game. the Dogs, though, and only the bril­Schlaff proved to be the most liant play of Fowler, who stopped valuable player for the winning two breakaways late in the game, team. In addition to scoring from all enabled them to gain a champion­over the court, she also did most of ship game berth. Dillon, on the other the ball-handling, played a strong hand, totally dominated Off-Campus defensive game and was innnvolved despite playing without two oftheir in a number of scraps beneath the best players, who were injured in a boards. Her hustling style of play collision in a Sunday practice ses­epitomized the desire evident in the sion. entire B-P team. 
It was a classic battle in the con-"We all worked really hard for this 
continuedfrom page 8 
champ Off-Campus, Big Red was able to take control ofthe game ear­ly, and although they fell into a defensive shell in the second half, there was little doubt that they had deserved the hard-fought victory. 
And when the final buzzer sounded, jubilant Dillon players poured onto the ice and piled on top of their goaltender Marchiori, who 
Olympics. Ironically but not surprisingly, 
squad in different years, Marchiori in 1977 and Fowler in 1980. Both put on fine performances last night and throughout the season, and were ob­viously the most valuable players for their respective teams this year. 
Alumni, whose only previous loss 
.. 



Practice yesterday was good. We watched film ofthe DePaul game from 4:30 until 5:00 then we worked on drill situations. Today we'll spend some time scrimmag­ing against situations that we might get from Geor­getown orJames Madison. 

I You know, I didn't have to say anything to this team
( 
I about the DePaul loss or about what we have facing us I this week. I think they know what's ahead and I think
I 
they're capable of learning-from the past and avoiding 

I l 
the same mistakes. I hope so. Bobby Knight called me today. We talked a little about ~laryland and Georgetown. He told me th'at he 

I and his wife, Nancy, and their kids were upset when we
I 
lost to DePaul. He said that he had an editorial all prepared that would have made me coach ofthe year if we'd have won. 
I thought our kids did a great job at the banquet Mon­day night. All ofthem were super and it gave the people ofSouth Bend a chance to setl what we mean when we say that our goal in recruiting is to get the best people we can, not only the best athletes. Of course Cecil (Rucker) stole the show but every one of them was great. Timmy Andree really said some great things. He showed a lot of maturity about the important things in life. 
I picked my son, Rick, up at s<;hool yesterday after­noon and he's already got his Final Four picked. He figures it will he DePaul, Oregon State, LSU and us. He better say us. He doesn't want to start walking home from school. He thinks it will be NO and LSU in the finals which would he all right with me. I just want to get there. I don't care who we play. 
After the banquet Monday night I went home, watched the news and a little johnny Carson. Got to bed around midnight and I had an anxiety dream. I think that comes from the uncertainty of not knowing who 

Interhall hockey 

Dillon captures title 
By CHRIS NEEDLES 
Sports Writer 
Avenging consecutive shutout losses to defending champion Alumni, Dillon scored two goals ear­ly in the first half and then hung on to defeat their arch-rivals, 2-1, to capture the interhall hockey cham­pionship last night before a vocal throng at the ACC. 
Big Red got on the board first about four minutes in the game on a 15-foot slapshot by right wing Gavin Green after a giveaway in the Alumni zone. It was the first goal Dillon had scored against Alumni in over 100 minutes ofaction, dating back to the teams' 1-l tie during the regular season last year. . 
Once again, loose play in the Alumni defensive zone produced an­other Dillon goal, as Larry Drabot was able to walk in alone on the left side, deke Dog goalie Phil Fowler out of position, and put the puck in the open net to make it 2-0. 
Alumni, champion of the South Quad this season, played lackadaisi­cally throughout the opening 20 minutes, but was able to pull within 2-1 at halftime on a fluke goal by Charlie Kruse. The sophomore left wing's slap shot deflected off a Dil­lon defenseman, off the waffle board of Red goalie Danny Marchiori, and into the goal. 
Now with the momentum on their side, the Dogs took control of the second half, as they constantly forced the action in the Dillon zone. But Marchiori was unbeatable as he came up with numerous key saves, the best ofwhich was an elbow save of a point blank shot by Alumni's Charlie Penna late in the contest. The Dogs continued to apply the

I 
pressure until late in the game, when

r 
\ a holding penalty to defenseman Matt Brock with four minutes left pretty much clinched the Dillon title. 
The victory enabled Big Red to gain revenge against their neighbor­ing rivals, who had held a 2-0-1 edge over Dillon in their last three meetings. In last year~s champion­ship, Alumni won easily over Dillon, 5-0, and just last week, the Dogs and Phil Fowler won the South Quad title~with an emotional 2-0 shutout victory over Big Red. 

But last night, it was Dillon's turn to celebrate. Riding the crest of an uplifting 3-1 semi-final victory Mon­day night over powerful North Quad 
See DILLON, page 7 

Dillon goalie Danny Marchiori shined in the nets as the Big Red defeatedAlumnifor the interhall title. (photo by Helen Od ar) 
Team prepares for tournament 

we playing or when. 
If we play Georgetown, we know they'll run and shoot and rely on the press and their quickness. James Madison, on the other hand, is a ball-control, slow down team, totally opposite the Hoyas. And don't think we;re not preparing for James Madison as intensely as Geor­getown. Any team that lost to Virginia by only one point can beat anybody. 
Last night I looked at film of Georgetown and Con­necticut at home. I was tired so I went to bed early. I needed a good night's sleep. . The first hurdle is always the toughest. Just getting mto the playoff routine takes some doing for all of us. People have been calling, tickets are at a premium. But hey, this is what we do it for. Total action from all sides. h keeps me mentally alert. 
Speaking oftickets, I was really excited when I heard the entire student allotment was gone in three hours yesterday. It's great to think that we'll have our students there on Saturday -that they're willing to give up part oftheir vacation to give us support. They're really going to help us. And we'll need them. 
We're into this thing now. Things are starting to fall into place. I won't feel comfortable until Friday but I can see things starting to fit. 
As far as what to expect from us, all I can say is we're gonna do what got us this far. And we're gonna do it the best way we know how. 
Wednesday, March 11, 1981 -page 8 
Irish \ Bill Marquard 
Sports Writer




Items 

THIS IS IT!! (or WHAT IS THIS WEEK'S MOST OVERWORKED PHRASE?)-The Irish will embark on the NCAA tournament trail for the eighth consecutive year on Saturday, the most continuous ap­pearances by any team other than UCLA, which is enjoying its 15th straight trip. 
Including their NIT bids in 1968 and 1973, the Irish are going to 
their ninth straight post-season affair and 20th in their history. Only. 
UCLA (making its 22nd NCAA trip) and Kentucky (26th appearance) 
have competed more than the Irish, who saw their first post-season 
action in 1953. Notre Dame has also made 13 tournament trips in the 
last 14 seasons, missing only in Digger Phelps' first season, 1971-72, 
when the team posted a 6-20 record. 
RECORD-SETTERS -The Irish roundballers boast an overall20-21 
record in NCAA play, including a 13-4 mark in first games. Last year's 
overtime setback to Missouri in the first round of the NCAA tourney 
marked the only first-game loss on Phelps' slate. 
GO EAST, YOUNG MEN (corny, but... ) -Notre Dame has appeared 
in the East regional on three occasions, most recently in 1977. The 
Irish sport a 5-3 record in that bracket. They beat Hofstra in Philadel­
phia and fell to North Carolina in the regional semifinal of the 1977 
classic in College Park, Md. The Irish went 2-1 during the 1953 East 
Regional, thumping Eastern Kentucky and Pennsylvania before falling 
to Indiana. The following campaign, Notre Dame whipped Loyola and 
nipped Indiana before succumbing to Penn State in the same regional. 
DIGGER IN THE SPOTUGHT -Brand new Observer columnist 
Digger Phelps (who probably aspi.res to being}oey Meyer) has guided 
the Irish to nine straight post-season tournaments. Phelps sports a 
I 0-9 record in NCAA tourney action at Notre Dame and a 13-10 ledger 
in the NCAA and NIT with the Irish. Including the East Regional bid his 
Fordham Rams earned in 1971, Phelps owns a 12-10 mark in the 
NCAA classic and a 15-11 slate in post-season events. 
THREE'S THE CHARM? -Sunday's season-ending loss to Mark "the 
camera's on" Aguirre and the rest of his Blue Demon supporting cast 
left the Irish with a 22-5 record on the year, the third consecutive 
season that Notre Dame has posted such a regular season record. 
During the past season, the Irish have faced eight ofthis year's NCAA 
tournament teams (UCLA, Virginia, DePaul, San Francisco, Indiana, 
Kentucky, Villanova and Maryland) and have posted a combined 6-4 
record in the I 0 games played against those eight foes. 
Two other Irish opponents, Marquette and Dayton, have already 
received NIT bids. 

HOT SHOOTERS -The 48.5 percent field goal accuracy the Irish dropped to against DePaul marked only the third time in 27 games that the Irish dipped below the 50 percent efficiency mark from the floor. Their regular season rating finished at 55.6 percent, and barring unforseen disaster at the trigger the Irish should handily top the 53 percent team standard that the 1973-74 Irish set. Having connected on better than 60 percent of their tloor attempts in nine games this year, the Irish percentage ranked second behind Oregon State's 57.2 clip in last week's NCAA tallies. 
DON'T GIVE 'EM AN INCH-The Irish have surrendered only 63.5 points per contest this season, the best mark since the 1953-54 Irish allowed only 62.9 points per game during their 22-3 season. 
Incidentally, the Irish have won nine games this year by scoring 70 . 
or less points. They have also lost four oftheir five games by scoring 
less than 70 points. 

MENAGE A TROIS -Should the Irish face Georgetown in 
Providence on Saturday, they would share three common opponents 
with the Hoyas. Notre Dame lost to DePaul 74-64, but beat Villanova 
94-65 and LaSalle 60-59. Georgetown lost to the Blue Demons 72-67, 
but defeated Villanova 70-54 and 68-60 and LaSalle 79-63. 
James Madison shares one common foe with the Irish. The Dukes 
were edged by Virginia 53-52 while the Irish handed the Cavaliers 
their first loss, 57-56. 

DISSOCIATED PRESS -The Associated Press has delivered one of 
its more questionable All-American teams in recent memory. Kelly 
Tripucka, who was tabbed as a first team All-America choice by United 
Press International, was relegated to the also-ran team of honorable 
mention players by the AP. Having been ignored on the first three 
squads, Tripucka anchored the list of honorable mention choices, a 
list which the AP seemed to compile from the list of teams playing in 
post-season tournaments. 
The gross oversight of Tripucka was not the only questionable 
choice. DePaul's talented guard, Clyde Bradshaw, was only afforded 
an honorable mention as well. Furthermore, Orlando Woolridge, who 
may surprise many people with his high selection in the first round of 
the NBA-draft this summer, was neglected by both the AP and UPI 
pollsters. 

Granted, Notre Dame is a team-oriented squad, but it certainly did 
not get where it did without some top-quality players, namely 
Tripucka and Woolridge. Likewise, DePaul certainly is not just Mark 
Aguirre's NBA farm team; Bradshaw carries the team too, as the Irish 
sorely found out on Sunday. 
BREAK-ING AWAY -Most every active varsity squad is heading for 
different climes next week wit the arrival ofspring break. The baseball 
team will be making their annual southern swing, this time through 
Mississippi. Both the men's and women's tennis team will journey 
west to California, where the men will play 10 matches and the 
women five in l 0 days. 
The lacrosse team will enjoy its first taste of varsity competition on 
a swing through Virginia and Maryland, while the golfteam leaves the 
Burke Memorial layout behind and heads for Miami, Florida. 
Even the women's basketball team is getting into the action, 
heading west and a little north -they are scheduled to play in a 
tournament in Ancorage, Alaska. 
._, 





