

ByJOE RODRIGUEZ 
News Staff 
For the past two days the cameras of the CBS news magazine, "60 Minutes", have been rolling here on campus. 
"60 Minutes" had originally planned to do a segment on the retirement of Notre Dame President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. But when Fr. Hesburgh agreed to remain in the position for five more years, "60 Minutes" continued with its plans to profile the 65-year·old university patriarch. 
Harry Reasoner, currenlty on campus to anchor the segment, talked about his job at "60 Minutes." 
Reasoner praised the oppor· tunitics for creative journalism that are offered by the program. In addi· tion, he commenwd on the "60 Minutes" staff "To put out a quality show, week after week, takes a team effort by a dedicated group," he said. 
Reasoner particulalry enjoyed 
working on this segmt·nt. The 
anchorman, who first met and in· 
tevicwed Fr. Hesburgh t:ighteen 
years ago, called the· University 
president "one of the most fascinat· 
ing personalities I've dealt with in 
my years of journalism." 
Reasoner emphasized that the aim of the segment is not to profile Fr. Hcsburgh not only as the president of Notre Dame, but as an individual as wt:ll. 
Scenes for the show, which will air sometime in February, were shot at various spots around campus, as well as at the annual football ban· 
Reasoner has recently appeared on several talk shows while promot· ing his recenlty published book, Before the Colors Fade. The book chronicles Reasoner's public as well as private life. 
During the mid·I970s, Reasoner teamed with Howard K. Smith to bring ABC News a number ofhighly· rated seasons. Then he moved to CBS, where he joined the "60 Minutes" staff as one of the four co· anchors. For the past several seasons "60 Minutes" has been among telcvi· sion's highest-rated progams.
----· -------___.:_____ 
Non-Christian courses 
Theo dept. clarifies policy 
By KAREN MCCLOSKEY 
Neu•sStaH 
Controversy surrounded thcol· 
ogy course pre-registration recently 
due to a misunderstanding ofdepart· ; ment policy. 
Students were reportedly told 
that non-Christian theology courses 
could no longer be used to fulfill the 
theology requirement. 
Juniors Jim Coggins and Karen 
Miranda told The Observer that 
when they registered for certain 
non-Christian courses, they were 
referred to Associate Professor of 
Theology Fr. Edward Malloy. 
fr. Malloy reportedly informed 
them that because of pressure from 
alumni, faculty a••tl other staff mem· 
bcrs, the Theology Department was 
imposing new standards on stu· 
dents. Because ofthis, he reportedly 
told students that the non-Christian 
courses would not fulfill the depart· 
mcnt requirement. When ques· 
tioned further, Fr. Malloy reportedly 
told the students that any rcqu~st for 
requirement credit would have to 
be reviewed by Department Chair· 
man Fr. Richard McBrien. 
Acording to Fr. McBrien, the 
faculty of the Theology Department 
became concerned about the issue 
when a theology professor entered 
her classroom a few days after pre· 
registration. Written on the board 
was the following: "This course no 
longer fulfills the second course rc· 
quirement." 
This incident led to a discussion at 
a regular faculty meeting the follow· 
ing week. At this gathl·ring, the ques· 
tion was raised as to Fr. Malloy's 
actions, which seemed to contradict 
departmental policy. 
The policy in question is entitled 
"Collegiate Requirements in Theol· 
ogy at Notre Dame." Enacted in 
December of 1979, this document 
remains the guide for undergraduate 
theology requirements. 
The document states the follow· 
ing with regard to second theology 
course requirements: 
"Second courses build on an in tel· ligcnt grasp oftradition to show how theological understanding can fur· ther the liberal education of stu· dents in all four undergraduate colleges, as well as open ways of un· derstanding how Christians can con· tribute to today's world." 
The section dealing with non-Christian courses states that' such courses examine "another religious tradition in an historical and systematic fashion, opening stu· dents to a cross-cultural theological perspective." 
According to Prot: Robert Wilken, several members of the faculty were upset that Fr. Malloy acted in a man· ner contrary to the policy of the department. 
Assistant Prof. Phillip Devcnish 
stated that "nobody is required to go 
to Fr. Malloy to get permission to 
take a non-Christian course." 
In confirming these incidents, Fr. 
McBrien said that fr. Malloy acted on Fr. McBrien's authority. The department chairman explained that he and Fr. Malloy were con· 
ccrned that students were not receiving an adequate background in Christian theology. 
They felt that it was their obliga· tion to advise students in these mat· ters. However, Fr. McBrien stressed that this docs not mean that non· Christian courses do not fulfill thl·ol· ogy requirements. 
According to Fr. McBrien,"The department reserves the right to advise students" about an adcquatt· 
See THEO, page 4 
South Bend police decentralize program 
By KATHLEEN DOYLE 
Neu•sStaff 
In an attempt to improve resident 
and neighborhood protection, the 
South Bend Police Department has 
been restructured into a new sector 
system which may benefit off· 
campus students. 
This new community oriented policing program, which began in late November. is based upon the idea that the crime problem is the joint responsibility of the com· munity and police, according to a report from the office of Bro. John Campbell, head of off-campus stu· dent housing. 
Each sector contains a l'Om· 
munity policing center. The police 
center in the Notre Dame area is 
located in the east sector at 420 N. 
Frances Street. The purpose of the 
center is to provide police presence 
visibility and to serve as a distribu· 
tion center for crime prevention in· 
formation. 
Sector officers are stationed at 
these centers to enable off-campus 
students and South Bend residents 
to communicate their crime-related 
problems. 
Lieutenant Switalski of the east sector of the South Bend Police 
=-·--=--·-:.::.-: --=-====------==--·-==--·------·--­
Department said that the new sys·
:========­
tern benefits both residents and 
police. 
The new police model provides 
students and citizens with an in· 
creased opportunity to participate 
in their police department. The sec· 
tor police centers give the members 
of the community a place where 
they can obtain service directly 
from their own neighborhood 
police, as opposed to officers they 
do not know. 
According to Switalski, this 
familiarity may make citizens more 
apt to report Incidents. Police of· 
fleers are better able to become ac· 
quainted with the people in their 
sector and become an integrated part of the community. 
Switalski pointed out that officers are able to respond more quickly to calls because they arc stationed at various locations throughout South Bend rather than at a central area. This decentralization is intended to promote confidence and mutual respect through a coordinated effort by the police and residents. 
Notre Dame students living off· campus have reacted well to the new sector system. Kathy Jurado, off-campus commissioner, said that the students fed that it is "good 
See COPS, page 4 
Exam detects effects ofAgent Orange 
ByJERRY HARKA VY 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Maine (AP)-The questions go back nearly 15 years, 
recalling images offorgotten places like Cazone, Oak To and Quang 
Ngai Province. 
The processing clerk logs dates and places, setting the stage for 
questions about possible contact with Agent Orange, the toxic her· 
bicidc used during the Viet· 
nam War to clear jungles and 
destroy enemy food supplies. 
FRIDAY:Qit'\R'i.&\~,~~~:~1
Any direct skin contact with the spray? Ever drink contaminated water? Were 

FOCUS 
eating utensils affected by the 
spray? 
The interview by Mike Baker is the t1rst step in my Agent Orange screening examination, a two-hour physical now being given to veterans who served in Vietnam. 
Like hundr eager to allay any health concerns and contribute to the pool of information being gathered by the Veterans Administration about possible health damage resulting from the widespread usc of the 
In 1967, I was 24, serving as with the 173rd Airborne Brigade and later the America! Division. Although I spent most of my Vietnam tour at brigade or division headquarters, I occa'iionally went out with infantry companies to take pictures or accompany 1V crews. 
As I recall, most troops were aware that we were using defoliant but if anyone had any health concerns about sprays they were well· kept secrets. 
Not surprisingly, time had dulled my memories of Vietnam, leaving uncertainties about how to respond to some ofBaker's ques· tions about contact with Agent Orange. He assured me that was not unusual. "The only ones who really remember are the ones who were sprayed on directly," he explained as he entered my response!!· on a coded form. 
See ORANGE, page 4 
This will be the last issue of the semester. Happy holidays! Publication will resume Jan. 14 
quct, held last night at the ACC. defoliant. 
...:.. .... 


..----------. 
News Brie!§ 
Friday, December 11, 1981 -page 2 
~~~~==~=T==============================~ 
Increasingly cloudyand warm today, high in the mid­30s. Mostly cloudy tonight. Tomorrow, little temperature change, with a high in the m_id-30s and a 60 percent chance of snow. -AP 
The_Obs.er.~er 
Design Editor...................... Maura .Murphy 
Design Assistants........................Jim Keyes 
Layout Staff............................ Paul M.:Ginn 
Typesetters ....................................... AI Novas 
Ron joe 
NeU'S Editor........................ Tim Vcrcdlotti 
Copy Editors ............................... Ri<.:h Ada"' 
Tim Neely 
Paul McGinn 
Features Layou,t.............. Gregory Swiercz 
Sports Copy Editor.............. Chris Needles 
Typists .................................... Dodec Carney 
Laura Degnan Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor........................ Paul McGinn Ad Design ................................. Fran & Mary Photographer ......................... Cheryl Ertdt Guest Appearances ............. S. Chuckerzaa 
Christmas Spirit From all of us here to all of you there, good luck on finals, and a safe and happy 
holiday season. 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) ts publtshed Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacation penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Satnt Mary s Col­lege Subscnp!lons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnttng The Observer P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lndtana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second clasS postage pa1d at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
by The Oh.rm•er and The Associated Pres.r 
I 
The Notre Dame College Bowlfinal matches 
were held Wednesday, with the team captained by Ed Bylina repeat­ing as champions. Scott Jacobs, Mike Kunesh and John Davenport completed the team which twice defeated Mike Kristo's team in the double elimination program. Bylina's team won I85 to I65, and I95 to I35 in the championship match. -The Observer 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, president ofthe Univer­
sity of Notre Dame, announced his retirement as chairman of the board of trustees of the Rockefeller Foundation, effective June I, 1982. Dr. Clifton R. Wharton,Jr., chancellor ofthe State University of New York, will replace Hesburgh. The 6S-year-old Hesburgh is step­ping down according to a mandatory retirement age clause. A mem­ber of the board for 22 years, Hesburgh became chairman in 1977. -The Observer 
Notre Dame Food Service has announced the 
formation ofa new deli line for the spring semester. Situated in both serving squares ofthe South Dining Hall, the new service will feature made-to-order sandwiches and self-serve soups. Students may select from cold cuts, meat salads and an assortment ofbreads and relishes. The deli service will begin in early February and will be offered only during lunch periods Monday through Friday. -The Observer 
.The Notre Dame AlumniAssociation is planning its annual hall visitation program. Scheduled forJan. 21, the program will feature campus-wide conferences enabling alumni members to briefstudents on the association and its activities. Students may also air any questions or comments concerning their expectations ofthe association. Of particular interest to many students will be a thorough discussion of the alumni association's annual summer job 
·placement service. The tentative schedule features three or four alumni board members available at each ofsix sites across campus. -The Observer 
Professor Kasimierz Braun, winner of the 
Badge ofMerit for National Culture in his native Poland, will travel to America next month to serve during the spring semester as visiting faculty member and guest drama director at the University of Notre Dame. The appointment was announced by Mithelllifton, chairman of the ND-SMC Department of Communication and Theater. Braun presently teaches at the National School of Drama in Cracow, at Wroclaw University and serves as artistic director and general manager of Teatr Wsapolozesny in Wroclaw. One of his duties at Notre Dame will be the direction of a Shakespearean comedy, the selection to be announced later. His Shakespeare credits include Twelfth Night, Hamlet, and Romeo and juliet on Polish stage and television performances. Braun will teach "Acting III, Advanced 
Topics: Polish Drama and Theater," and "Advanced Topics: Shakespeare Production" during his stay at Notre Dame. He is the author ofsix books, includingThe Second Reform ofthe Theater, The New Theater in the World 1960-1970, and Notebook ofa Director. -The Observer 
Members of a church in Elkhart are inviting stu­dents who will not be able to go home for Christmas to their homes for Christmas dinner. Any students interested in a home-cooked Christmas dinner should call the Office ofStudent Affairs at 84Il and leave their name and phone number. Student Affairs will pass the 
information on to the church, and a member will then contact the student. -The Observer 
A man pleaded innocentin New York City yes­
terday to federal charges that he illegally transported and sold rare books taken from a college library in London. The defendant, John 
M. Papanastassiou, entered the plea beforeJudge Lee P. Gagliardi in 
U.S. District Court. Papanastassiou was arrested last Oct. 2 on a com­plaint by U.S. Customs Service agents after he allegedly sod four volumes, including a 1638 edition ofGallileo's "Discorsi." A request for his extradition has been made by United Kingdom authorities. Agents said I9 of9S books seized at the Papanastassiou's New York City apartment were listed as missing from London's University Col­lege library. -AP 
A former chiefdeputyin New Iberia, La. has been 
accused by a federal grand jury ofproviding protection to marijuana smugglers. Jim Desormeaux was arrested Wednesday night, said Sheriff Erroll "Romo" Romero. Desormeaux allegedly received about S I 00,000 in protection money for activities that took place in Louisiana coastal regions from about April I to about June I, 1979, said a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Gerald Bertinot. The indictment charged Desormeaux with conspiracy to import marijuana, import­ing of marijuana, possession with intent to distribut marijuana and with violating a federal extortion law. -AP 
Cable TV Time? 

E.F. HUTTON & COMPANY INC Discusses 
Career Opportunities in the Securities Industry 
• 
Corporate Fi nonce 

• 
Operations 

• 
Research e Sales 

• 
Trading 


And Other Areas of Specialization Within Hutton Will be Discussed on 
Thursday January 14, 198 1 at 7 P .M . in 
The University Club, Upper Lounge. 
One sticky issue that has been dormant for a while at 
Notre Dame is the question of whether or not the 
campus should be wired for cable television reception. 
To the best of our knowledge, only two dorms on 
campus currently are equipped with an integrated 
cable system: Flanner and Grace. At the time of their t·onstruction in the late 60s, the possibilities presented by cable were apparently very much on the mind of administrators and the architects. However, there are two prime considerations which seem to have cooled that enthusiasm. 
First, there is the cost factor. Wiring each dorm room or suite in each hall at Notre Dame would be a very costly proposition. Secondly. and more intangible in nature, is the concern among some members of the ad­ministration that access to the plethora ofcable stations and pay TV alternatives would serve as a serious distrac­tion to students' work and study habits. Both of these concerns are well warranted, so why resurrect a seemingly dead issue? 
It is essential that we recognize the fact that our sociery is on the threshold ofrevolutionary tt•chnologi­cal changes -most of which center around the home television set and the personal computer. The days of 
simply sitting in front of the 
T""--------------------""1 benefit from the system. The "boob tube" and mindlessly G-(lOI) H()ftMI~ sessions could be presided absorbing sitcoms and game ciA~ ~L( E over by teaching or graduate shows are dying a quick assistants, or even advanced 
death for many Americans "-" 
who are cashing in on the 
benefits of the cable revolu­
tion. Twenty-four hour 
sports and news networks are already well established, and in some test cities, households are now receiv­ing traditinal newspaper in­formation via the television set instead of on the doorstep through ex­perimental arrangements with their city newspaper. 
Columbus Ohio is the 
most striking example ofthe 
possibilities ofcable. In that 
city, cable subscribers are offered a system known as 
QUBE which in essence is a two-way television hookup 
in which viewers can respond instantaneously to public 
opinion polls, trivia questions, and other queries. 
Banking and retailing functions are also being per­
formed right now in test households -all via the televi­
sion cable hookup. 
But what does cable have to offer Notre Dame and 
could the benefits ofits contribution be enough to out­
weigh the negative aspects mentioned above? We 
should at least look at the possibilities before rejecting 
the concept out ofhand. 
In addressing the first concern, cost, the possibility of reaching an installation arrangement with potential cable companies should be investigated. In return for granting a franchise to one of the potential bidding firms, the University could demand free or cut-rate in­stallation charges. No additional bureaucracy would be needed by the University because the decision to receive cable service or not would be up to individual students, and all billing and servicing would be per-
John McGrath 
Editor in Chief Inside Friday 

formed by the cable company. 
Ont· other stipulation in any potential franchise agreement would call for the provision of at least one public access channel exclusively for the Notre Dame campus. This is the key in addressing the study distrac­tion concern. 
This public access channel would serve two purposes -both educational. First, programming on this channel could consist ofspecial class-related on-air review session~. One very popular "show" would un­doubtedly be a Thursday night chemistry review ses­sion in preparation for Friday's "Emil." Close to one thousand freshmen are enrolled in this class, and even if a fraction of the total tuned in, there would still be a substantial number of students deriving educational 
students in the class. 
Other possible candidates for air time consideration on the public access channel could be Economics I23 and 124 -both classes with over 700 students tradition­ally enrolled. Organic chemistry, accounting, engineering, and many other large classes could also be covered in reviews or update pogramming in a manner similar to that proposed for freshmen chemistry. 
The other educational benefit to be derived from a student access channel would accrue in the field of communication studies. Access to even the modest facilities of proposed chan­nel would enhance the instruction students now 
receive in the Communication and Theatre and American Studies departments. Telecommunications and broadcast internships are now offered through both departments, but enrollment is severely limited. 
Although the channel would only broadcast on campus via carrier current, all the basic functions ofa TV station could be roughly duplicated, including experience in producing news and sports programming. 
The carrier current nature of the operation would also benefit WSND-AM, which currently suffers from· poor reception arrround campus. Broadcasting its sig­nal through the cable system to student's stereos would dramatically improve recption -while still not competing directly in the South Bend market with the two University-owned radio station~. 
---~--------­
Friday, December 11, 1981 page 3
The Observer 
Varied reaction 
O'Meara speaks on Frese suit 
WASIIIN<;TON (AP)-President lkagan askt·d Americans working in Lrhya to coml· home yesterday to 
keep them from becoming pawns in any showdown with tht· radical Arab ~tate. Thl· government said 1_';00 
li.S. citizens, many of them oil tech­nicians, stand in "imminl·nt danger." 
The  State  Department  also  
banned  travel  to  Libya  by  U.S.  
citizens.  

With border guards alerted to be on thl· lookout for alleged Libyan as­sassin squads trying to infiltrate this country, oftkials implied that yes­terday's decisions were only t1rst moves in a cold war with the Libyan strongman Moammar Khadafy. 
The govt·rnment still t is consider­ing an embargo against oil from I.ibya, which supplies about 4 per­cent of U.S. imports, according toot: t1dals who spoke privately. 
"The stt·ps takt·n early today by President Reagan arc in response to the problem of Libyan lawlessness," Secretary ofState Alexander M. Haig 
Jr. told reporters in Brussels, Bel­gium, where he contCrred with 
Europt·an allies. 
llaig added, "I don't rule out potential further stt·ps, but the ac­tions taken arc justit1cd by the prevailing circumstances." 
Deputy St:l'fctary of State William Clark announced the moves, hut refused to link them to the ~ad­ministration's belief that Khadaty has sent an assassination squad to this continent to kill Reagan or other top govt:rnment officials in retalia­tion li>r the American downing of two Libyan MiGs Aug. 19. 
Reagan said Monday he had cvidcnt·c of the assassination plot, hut nont· has been made public Clark said tht· steps were taken in view ofthe ovnall pattern of Libyan behavior over the past six months. 
"A reliable source indicates that a six-man assassintation team ... may attt·mpt illegal entry into the Unitt·d Statt·s via :\1cxico during early l>eccmhn 19H I," ~aid a notiet: 
postt·d at the crossing on the U.S.­.\kxican hordn south of San Diego, <:alit: 
Senate Republican Leader Howard Baker said Reagan's dt·ci­sion dearly is to get the Americans out of Libya t1rst and then decide whether further action is called tilf. 
Said Baker: "That's my interpreta­tion: let's not have another Iranian situation. Let's get our Americans out. Let's see how the situation un­folds and develops. Let's see how Col. Khadafy reacts and let's decide what if any additional steps are necessary." 
havt: not bt:en made accountable. 
Nobody knows what wt:nt on. I cer­
tainly don't want to keep a fight 
going on over it. I agree with Provost 
O'Meara in that we must now put 
aside our differences." 
Another professor, who also re­
quested anonymity. offered strong 
remarks. "The University won. She 
( Doloes Frese) won. The only 
pt:oplc who lost is tht: English 
Department." 
Professor Robert Lordi, who has 
spokt:n out in tht: past with rt:gard to 
tht: Frt:se suit, spoke w The Obsert•er 
about O'Meara's statemt:nt. 
"The Provost's statcmcnr on the Frt:st: case cont1rms precisely what I pointed out in The Observer (November 20 ), namely that the University's expnlicnt reason for st:ttling tht: Frese case was based on tht: dass action aspects of the suit, and not on the professional merits of any individual case, including that of Ms. Fn:se. 
"His statement also re-affirms the 
validity of the University processes 
by which individual cases of promo­
tion and tenure are protcssionally 
decided." Prof. Dolores Frese 
replied "no comment" when asked 
about the Provost's statement. 
By VIC SCIULLI 
StaffReporter 
Provost Timothy O':vtcara's statc­
mt·nt with rl·gard to thl· out-of-court 
scttlcml·nt of the Dolores Frese suit 
~parked varied reaction among 
ml·mbl·rs ofthe Notre Dame faculty. 
Acn>tling to Provost 0'Meara's statement on the ~ex-discrimination case, whil'h appencd in full in Vl'S· 
teday's Obserz•er."The st:ttlement 
agreement acknowledges that there 
has bn·n no determination that the University has violated any law or regulation on discrimination, and the University denies any such viola­tion of law." 
With regard to the statement, one protcssor who asked to remain nameless, commt·rllcd that "the people who have made this decision 
Reagan asks for U.S. citizens to return home 
Conway explains escort 
•
serv1ce statements 
By TIM VERCELLOTTI 
This system will be used in the 
News Editor 
t1rst three weeks after the semester 
break. At the end of that time, Stu­Contrary to a report in Wednes­dent Body President Don Murday,
day's Obsen•er, Student Govern­ment Security Commissioner Brian Student Body Vice President Tara Conway did not resign as head ofthe Kenny and Conway will evaluate the escort service. 
escort service, and its future. Conway explained that he went 
Conway explained that this bdi>rc the Hall President's Council 
period will determine whether the on Tucsdav night to discuss the lack 
service should continue to be staffed of participation by hall volunteers in the service. He asked the hall presi­by the halls, staffed by a student dents to assume greater respon­
government task force, or face can­sibility in staffing the service. 
ccllation.
However, Conway did not step The escort service was placed on
down as head of the service. a trial basis in mid-November. Due According to Conway, volunteers to a poor turnout, the on-call por­have failed to show up at their ap­
tion of the service was cancelled.
pointed times at the Memorial 
Next semester escorts willl be
Library in the past few weeks. "There was a lack ofcommunication 
available in the lobby of the somewht·rc along the line," Conway 
Memorial Library from 10 p.m. to explained. As a result, Conway was forn·d to statlthc service himself I I :-t"i p.m., Sunday through Thursday.
Conway concluded that the halls 

would have to assume more of the 
burden of operating the service. 
Each ol the ~ixteen men s dorms will 
A~IVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
stall the snvicc on a rotating basis. Escort leaders in each donn will 
report on the night's work to Con: UNITED WAY 1981
liltS'­
wa\'. 
Notre Dame art graduate students are holding a Christmas pot­tery• sale today from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. in O'Shaugnessy. (photo by Chery•/ Ertelt) 
runs thru school yr. 
E;DISON & IRONWOOD hair desip for the aware IDIR and woiUn
r------COUPON'-----­
1 I STUDENT SPECIAL I 
WITH 
I
COUPON
:10% Off I­
I I I ON ALL SERVICES 1 
L-------COUPON------J 
(~REDI<EN 
FREE HAWAIIAN VACATION 
COllie in for delails reprdilll Redkens Swnpsbkn t..y. HOURS· MON.-8:30--5:00 Th•rs.-8:30--8:30 f ri. 8:30--5:30 
Sat.-8:01)..4:00 
Phone 234-6767 

PINOCCHIO'S PIZZA PARLOR 
THANK YOU to oil who contributed to the
-Hours Fast Delivery Service 
Mon-Thurs 11 am-12 pm 
277-4522 
overall success of the 1981 compoign.
Fri-Sat 11 am-1 :30 am 
Jl! 
Sun 4 pm-11 pm 

This demonstrates that Notre Dome truly is
-Beer Specials 
Every Nite 8:00-10:00 
51.75 Pitcher 5.50 Mug 
''A CARING PLACE'' 
-HAPPY HOUR 
Mon-Frl 4 pm-6 pm 
Fri-Sat 8 pm-12 am 
4 H wide screen TV E 
Brion Walsh
s
PLEASE-one coupon per pizza N •mmun• 
Walter Miller -----------~------------~his coupon good 1 This coupon good 1 »,~·T"" 
Co-Chairmen 
tor one I tor one 1 ~~<'''~ ~ 
juniJ.M·r 
LARGE PIZZA I MEDIUM PIZZA I v;; ~ 
1981 NO $1.00 OFF I $.75 OFF I '~ 
________________________.._________.. United WOJ Campaign
expires 12-31-8II expires 12-31-811 w 

. --· -----------~-~---~-~ 
The Observer Friday, December 11, 1981 -page 4 

MASS follow-ed b:}r 
supper 
every_FRIDAY at the 
candidates for the Ho~y Cross Associate program 
in Santiago, Chile,Jor I982. (photo by Cheryl Er­
telt) 


Matt Feeney, Notre Dame law student andfor­mer Ho~y Cross Associate, explains the prepara­tion pocess to joe Regotti and Maggie Brett, 
Protest shooting 
Blacks riot in Gainesville 
c.? 2
-
a: 

,_ ··N )~
LLI 
LLI \ 1/~'l
$24,100-$44,800
2 JOIN THE MOST SOPHISTICATED 
-NUCLEAR ENGINEERING PROGRAM IN THE WORLD. 
~ 
• 
2 IMMEDIATE OPENINGS FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS WORKING TOWARD A BS/BA IN ENGINEERING, MATH.LU PHYSICS, OR CHEMISTRY. . . 
a: 
INCLUDES A FULL YEAR OF GRADOATE LEVEL NUCLEAR TRAINING AT OUR EXPENSE WITH A $3.000 BONUS UPON COMPLETION. 
• 
c( 
EARN A STARTING SALARY OF 
S24,100 THAT INCREASES TO OVER $44,800 AFTER FOUR YEARS., PLUS FREE MEDICAL AND DENTAL
LLI 
CARE. UNLIMITED SICK LEAVE. THIRTY 
DAYS ANNUAL PAID VACATION, AND
..J 
EXECUTIVE CLUB PRIVILEGES. 
PERSONNEL WILL BE ON CAMPUS
CJ December 7 and 8, 1981 
or call number below 
2 
:) DEPARTMENT Of THE NAVY 575 N. PENNSYLVANIA STREET OFFICE 646 OPO INDIANAPOLIS, IN 46204 
317-269-6183 OR 1-800-382-9404 
G,AINESVILLE, Fla. (AP) -Black ) •l'ilths pelted motorists and pedestrians with rocks and bottles yesterday in an area where about 250 people rampaged the night before to protest. the shooting of a black teenager by a white policeman. 
Police said the disturbance at mid­day yesterday was far more limited than Wednesday night's outbreak in this North Florida city of 81,000, home of the state's largest campus and one of its few black police chiefs. 
"We're responding to it. It's not as 
big a group at this time," police Lt. 
Don Dean said. 
• • • Orange 
continuedfrom page I 
"At the end ofeach month we send this code sheet in to Washing­
ton, and it's fed into this computer, called the Agent Orange 
Registry," Baker added. 
My appointment for the screening, at a sprawling VA hospital com­
plex in Togus near Augusta, was made through james Tukey, who 
heads the state's Agent Orange Information Committee. 
Luckily, l have had no medical problems since my tour in Vietnam 
ended in early 1968. But Agent Orange, the toxic defoliant used 
extensively during the war, has been suspected of causing birth 
defects and ailments ranging from skin conditions to cancer. 
As of last month, 65,000 veterans nationwide have undergone 
screenings, and I0,500 have filed claims for disability, VA officials 
say. About 1.6 million Americans served in Vietnam. Nearly 800 
Maine residents, out ofan estimated 16,000 who served in Vietnam, 
have been screened at Togus. The percentage taking the exam is 
"considerably higher' in Maine than in most other states, said Donald 
L. Wert, medical administrative officer at Togus. Wert said various groups in Maine, including the VA and service 
organizations, have been taking part in well-publicized campaigns to .alert Vietnam vets about Agent Orange. 

nnecticut ND-SMC Students 
Holiday Alumni-Student open house Sheridan Hartford Hotel Jan. 6, 1982 5-8 pm 

€€ abmJSSIOn anb B€€R ~OR StUb€nts. 
b€nts, alumm, ~am1lJ€S, anb ~RJ.€nbs W€lCOm€. 
aR€€R anb SUffiffi€R JOBS biSCUSS€b. 
al€R hock€y qam€ ava1laBl€ at 8:00 pm 

Dean said the number of black youths participating in the distur­bance was "about I 0 or IS," compared with the estimated 250 who rampaged for 90 minutes 
following the shooting of 16-year­old Columbus Williams by an officer trying to make a drug arrest. He was reported in satisfactory condition at a hospital yesterday. 
More than 60 riot-equipped police were called in to quell that disturbance. 
Police ChiefAtkins Warren was in 
his former hometown of St. Louis 
when the disturbance broke out. He 
rushed back to Gainesville yester­
day, toured the troubled area, then met with his staff. 
The investigation of the shooting 
was in the hands of the state attor­
ney's office. 
Police said Williams had grabbed 
the service revolver of undercover 
officer Ernest Bridges as Bridges 
tried to arrest him in a drug inves­
tigation and Bridges shot him in the 
chest with a backup weapon. 
But witnesses claimed that the youth had fallen on the curb and the officer was in no danger when the shot was fired. 
"(Williams) was lying on his stomach. He was physically help­less," said joseph Bryant, an in­surance agent. 
"He was getting up. Boom! He shot him," said Sharon Alexander, 
21. 
One black community leader expressed surprise at the violence and said he did not think it was "symptomatic of any racial problems in Gainesville." 
• • • Theo 
continuedfrompage I 
theological education. This includes a fairly well-based knowledge of the Christian tradition. 
Fr. McBrien added that students 
would not be restricted from taking 
non-Christian courses to fulfill their 
second course requirement. 
Fr. McBrien stressed that there was no change in departmental policy. The 1979 document is still the guide to undergraduate theol­ogy education. 
' Cops
' 
continuedfrom page 1 
having a policeman in the neighbor­
hood who can respond quickly. 
They like having someone watching 
out for them." 
When asked what brought on this 
modification in the department, 
Switalski said that it was not city 
growth or an increase in crime in the 
Northeast neighborhood that 
caused the change. 
"It was time· to try a new con­cept," he said. 
The South Bend police chief and division chief examined the police departments ofother cities with this type ofprogram before initiating the change. 

The Observer Friday, December 11, 1981 -page 5 
Holy Cross program 
Associates accept applications 
By MARGARET FOSMOE 
.'VeU'.< Staff 
Tht· Holy Cross Associates will be 
;~cn·pting applications ti>r their 
domestic Volunteer Program until 
l'dmary I2, an·ording to Matt 
Feeney, Staff Manager. 
Tht· domestic Volunt<.Tr Program 
is for post-graduate students at .\/otre Dame and Saint ,\1ary's who :lrt· int<.·rt·stnl in partu.:ipating in a 1 aricty ol soda! work at one of four 
Haig speaks 
on U.S. measures 
BRllSSEL". Belgium lAP) _ Sn-rt·tary ofState Alexander M. llaig Jr. said yesterday that new U.S. ac· tions a~ainst Lihya were in rt·sponse , to "terrorist activitv" but that most ofAmerica's Europ~an allies probab­ly will maintain normal relations with tht· Libyan government. 
Rdi:rring to a u.s. request yester­
day for Americans to leave Libya,
and invalidation of U.S. passports for traVl·l to Libya, Haig told reporters, "The steps taken early today by 
~~~~~<~~:e:~>~~~b~;ni::~~~:;s~:> 
Hut llaig said the steps were primarily to protect Americans and 
that the United States was not
"engaged in victimizing Libya." 
In recent weeks U.S. officials, 
speaking privately, had spoken in 
t<.·rms of punitive actions against 
Libya, such as banning imports of 
Libyan oil to the United States. The 
Reagan administration alleges 
Libyan leader Moammar Khadafy is 
plotting to kill the president or other 
high ll.S. officials. 
"I don't rule out potential further 
steps, but the actions taken arc jus­
titled by the prevailing _cir­
cumstances,' Haig said. "It should be 
read precisely that way." 
6 
TRIPS 
DAILY 
Ask Your Travel Agent For The Big Bus To O'Hore 
Or Call 234-3108 

.Indiana Motor Bu' 
Almost Free Travel Drive -No Rental Fees Reservations & Info foL 
Cars to AZ, FL, TX Most Major Cities/
States
CALL NOW
I
Chicago ....312-939-3600 Elkhart ....219-264-4105 
Split Gas ~ith Friends! MUST BE AT LEAST 21 YEARS OLD 
AU'!.'O DRIVE.hJ.JAY CO. 
sites within the United States. The 
Holy Cross Associates also sponsor a 
similar international program with 
sires in Santiago, Chile and Nairobi, 
Kenya. 
The domestic program was 
founded in 1978. when tive Notre 
Dame graduates travdeJ ro 
Portland, On:. to participate. While 
there, tht~y pnformcd various types 
of soda! Wl>rk, such as tc;Khing 
school and working with juvenile 
ddinquents. 
Tlw program has expanded since 
then, moving to other cities whne 
Holy Cross Associates now work. 
The four current sites arc located in 
Colorado Springs, Colo.; Baywood, 
Ca.; Phot·nix, Ariz.; and the original 
Portland site. 
While students from the Portland 
arca also participate, Notre Dame 
and Saint Mary's graduates comprise 
H'i percent ofthe program. General­
ly, thert· are t1ve volunteers at each 
site. The volunteer ratio is about 'iO 
~ercent mak, 50 percent female. 
Ih~ domestic program runs annual­
ly, from August through .July. 
Feeney, presently .a Notre. Dame law stud~nt, partiCipated 111 the program from August, 1979 through July, 1980. He taught grade school 
while at the Phoenix site. 
Feeney emphasized that the 
program is open for all graduates. 
"No specific major is nee-essary to 
join. We are simply looking for stu­
dents interested in a variety ofsocial 
work," he said. 
For each volunteer in the 
program, S4,000 is place(~ in a com­
mon house hudgt·t to pay expcns~:;s. 
In addition, volunteers are given 
S'iO a month as spending money. 
There is a Christian aspt·ct to the 
program as wdl. Participants remain 
close through such activities as 
group mass. 
Feeney descihed the flexibility of the program. "Basically. the volun­tt'Crs can do what they want on the local front. Tht·re is a Holy Cross priest present at each site to coor­dinate the program. There is a great deal of flexibility involved," he ex­
plained. 
The international program in­volves a two and one-half year commitment. Thus, the overseas group that left this past August will return in December of 1983. 
Those interested in either of the programs should contact program coordinator Fr. Don McNeill at the Center for Experiential Learning. 

Dining hall checkerDaveEnder~y is caught in the act ofslipping a late-night snack into his pocket. (photo by CherylErtell) 
•--------·---------·-----•...••------·------••-••-----•-••-----•-•a~•Jj-..
!1111.~ -:"~ 
I '' '9. 
.. UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME UNITED WAY 
A 
:f'q~ 1 9 81 
... 
It is with a great deal of pleasu.re that I officially announce that the Notre Dame United Way Campaign was a success! Over $119,000 was raised from the students, staff, and faculty of the Notre Dame Community. 
I want to publically thank the following individuals for their personal involvement in the Notre Dame campaign. 
Ron Anderson Rev. Leonard N. Banas, C.S.C. Sister Judith Ann Beattie, C.S.C. Cathryn Beczkowski 
G. Thomas Bull Richard Conklin Theodore J. Crovello Carson Daley Dr. James M. Daschbach Sister Elain Desrosiers Sean Digan Hanna Eldred and Staff Fred Freeman Josephine Gladura Mr. Mark Heller Herman Hirl Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Professor John W. Houck Monica Jeffers Josie Jeffries Jay Kane 
Mr. Charles Linster John R. Lloyd Robert Loeffler Mike Mancuso Mr. Thomas Mason Jack McGann John M. McGrath Rev. Donald McNeill, C.S.C. Bro. Joseph McTaggart, C.S.C. Joseph O'Brien Mr. Bazil O'Hagan Professor Timothy O'Meara Mr. Richard Phelps Dr. Morris Pollard Earnestine Raclin William Sexton 
Thomas Swartz Kathleen Weigert Terry Wilkins James Wruck 
Also a thank you to all who contributed in any way to the success of the campaign~ 
Brian Walsh 
Walter Miller 
Co -Chairmen 
~ 1981 ND United Way Campaign 
~\ 
The Observer Friday, December I I, I98I -page 6­
• 
EARN $1,000 AND ****TRAVEL FREE **** 
Do you want to make more An unbelievable offer! Be our 
money this school year? Are you Daytona Beach rep. Promote 
willing to spend 1-2 hours per our low cost tour on campus 
day for 12 weeks? Would you . with the help of our easy-to-use 
like to go to Daytona Beach dur­promotion kit, and join your 
ing spring break FREE? If you friends and classmates on a Day­
answered yes to all 3 of these tona Beach adventure with 
questions, become our campus plenty of expense money in 
rep. your pocket 
l.all or write today for more information. 
Travel Associates • 777 East Wisconsin Avenue 
Milwaukee, WI 53202 • (414) 276-3070 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
t Christmas Eve at Sacred Heart f 
t
t 

~s your inv~t~tion to joinf
t 
1 n t he t r ad 1 t 1ona1 wa1k-i n f t choir for Midnight Mas~ ~ndt t ll:OOV1g1l.f t 
Oec. 21, 22, 23 from \ 5: rJ() to 6: 0'1 pm. f
t 
Rehearsal Hall, Crowley r-1usic Building. f 

t t t t 
\1\.-;S ~0 0~?­~~ 
show times: 2:00-4:00-6:00-7:45-9:40 
"LJPR~IOUS!" 
tobe'"X" 

f
t 
' 

The Underground Theatre last nightpresented a pair oforiginal one-act plays. Here joe Musumeci gets "His just Desserts." Later, "The Girl's Room" appeared. (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 

Friday--ChristmaS Party 

2:00-7:00 
You won't want to miss it 


U.S.-Soviet arms talks continue 
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP)-Whik 
progress in U.S.-Soviet arms talks is 
being made, it is too early to predict 
there will be an agreement in time to 
head off planned deployment of 
American missiles in Europe, the chief U.S. negotiator told the NATO allies Thursday. 
Paul H. Nitze told foreign mini­sters from l 5 NATO countries that "both sides were getting down to real issues in the negotiations" that opened Nov. 30 in Geneva, accord· ing to a senior U.S. official. 
Nitze flew here to provide a progress report on the talks with the Soviets. The United States wants NATO to endorse the U.S. negotiat­ing position and also to reaffirm NATO's decision to go ahead with deployment of 572 U.S. missiles, beginning in 1983, if there isn't an agreement. 
The senior official, who requested 
anonymity, said that following 
Nitze's remarks to a closed session, 
the NATO foreign ministers praised 
the U.S. effort in the Geneva negotia­
tions. 
"Ambassador Nitze was able to 
report that the negotiations have 
been· undertaken in a very serious 
vein and...the atmosphere between 
the two delegations has been a very 
positive one," said the official. 
Sources and spokesmen for 
several other ddegatiom indicated 
they were generally pleased with 
what Nitze reported. 
Ont: conference source wh\l did 
not want to be identified quo1<:d 
:'llitz<:-as saying the Soviet position in 
the first 10 days of the negotiatium 
had nor changed. The t·.s. position. a 
"zero option" fi!Voring a han on all 
nuckar mbsilt-s in the L·.uropean 
area, also apparenth had nut 
changed either. 
Lothar RuhL spokesman t(>r the 
W~.:M Gernun Foreign :1.1inisty, ~aid 
hb delegation was plea~cd th~.: talb 
were t(JCusing on matters of ~ub­
~tance. ,\1ark \1ac(;uigan, tht: 
Canadian fort:ign minister. told 
reporters, ''It's quitt· clear to us from 
what Mr. Nitze said t the United States 
is very st:rious in these arms control 
nt:gotiations." 
A source in the British delegation 
was quoted as saying Nitze's report 
was "not unt:ncouraging." 
Nitze's appearance was part of a 
U.S. effort on several fronts to bolster European resolve to go for­ward with dt:ploying the nuclear missiles -if there is not an agree­ment -to confront Soviet missiles which are already in place. 
The U.S. delegation, headed by Secretary ofState Alexander M. Haig Jr., wants the NATO communique, which will be issued at Friday's close, to declare that deployment along with negotiations "are impor­tant and tht: deployment's scheduled time in 1983, in the ab­sence ofan absenct: ofan agreement, will go fonvard." 
Some of the European countries, especially Wc:st Gt:rmany, are ex­pected to face domestic pressure to forgo deploying the missiles on their territory in tht: absence of an agree­ment. 
The Observer 
announces promotions 
The News Department announces 
the following promotions to the 
position of staff reporter: Juniors 
Mary Mclnt:rny and Gus Tamborel­
lo; Sophomores Cindy Coldiron, 
Katie McDonnell, Molly Ryan and Tom Shaughnessy; and Freshmen Mark Boennighausen, Vic Sciulli and Mike Wilkins. 
The Observer Friday, December 11, 1981 -page 7 
Sakhavov 's daughter -in-law 
Alexeyeva receives visa 
MOSCOW ( AP) -Andrei Sak­Union before seeing the Sakharovs. Miss Alcxcycva married Alexei harov's dau~htcr-in-law said yester­She said the KGB told here earlier in St:myonov, who studies at Brandeis day she has been summont·d to the the day that that she could visit them University ncar Boston, by proxy Soviet visa oftkc, apparently to next Monday. last summer in a ceremony per­rcl"eivc ht·r lon~-awaitcd exit "I will not have peace of mind un­formed in Montana. The Soviets do papas. But she vowed not to kavt· til I go to Gorky on Monday to prove not rco>gnizc the marriage. for the llnitt·d Statt•s until she is sure to myself that the Sakharovs arc all Soviet media have been silent on Sakharov has abandont:d a hunger right," she said. the case since last Friday's blast strike on hn behalf. Sakharov. winner of the 197'; against the Sakharovs and Miss 
"I fed happier now. I fed mul"h Nobel Peace Prize ti>r his work on Alcxcyeva in tht: government l"almcr." Uza Alexq•t·va said after behalfofhuman rights, was banished newspaper Izvestia. The report rn:dving the summons Ill appt·ar to the Vol~a River city cast of Mos­accused Sakharov of beginning the today at 0\'IR, whnc exit visas arc cow nearly two years ago to limit his hunger strike to fan "anti-Soviet bsucd. "But I still have a lingering access to ti>rl'igncrs. sentimcnts" in the West. fear that it's not quite trut· and that it might all turn out tnribly." 
Tht· appart·nt decision to permit 
Reagan aides consider 
her to t·migratc ~t'l'mcd to bt· a major l"Onl"cssion by Soviet authori­ties, who haVl· hccn under intense 
taxes to fight deficit
intt·rnational pressure to meet Sak­
harov's dt·mands to let Miss WASHIN<;ToN ( AP)-President Stockman anll other advisers. Alcxcycva, 26, join ht·r husband in Reagan's budget planners hope to The sourl"es, asking mat their the United States. push the federal ddidt to under $70 names not be used, also disclosed 
The Soviet govcrnrm:nt has not billion in 1983 and to HO billion or that widely published dcfidt figures l"ommcntcd officially on the l"asc less in 198"f, and arc considering tax prt:parcd a week ago already havt: sim:t· last l'riday, and repeated at­increases to get there, administra­been rcvist:d downward, though 
tempts hy The Associated Press to tion sources said yesterday. they still paint a bleak budget out­rcat·h tht· KGB (security polil"c) for The nt:w rt:vcnues might come look. umtlrmation have been unsul"ccss­from withholding taxes on intt:rcst 
Al"cording to the sourl"t:s, Stol"k­ful. and dividend innllnc. imported oil 
man told Reagan earlier this week Miss Alcxeycva, tht· fol"us of a bit­fees, taxes on employer-paid ht·alth 
that without more budget cuts or ItT struggk between the banished insurance benefits and a windfall 
tax increases, the dt:ficit will surge dissident and Soviet authorities, said profits tax on deregulated ·natural 
to I! I 07. <; billion in fisl"al 1982, she was told to bring her passport, gas, administration ofticials said. 
11147.9 billion in 1983 and Sl';2.4 two photographs and 21 0 rubll's One sourl"t: said the administra­
billion in 1984. (about $:~00 at the oftkialcxchangc tion is looking at plans to raise S80 The earlier estimates showed
rate), whkh is the normal price for a billion to S8'; billion in 198.3 and 
ddicits of I! I 09. I billion for the l"llf­
Soviet exit visa. 1984 to reduce a dctidt now rcnt fiscal year, S I ';2.3 billion for
She told reporters that the sum­projcl"tcd at more than $1 ';() billion 1983 and S162 billion for 1984. Fis­
mons 1.:amc in a form letter that in 1984. l"al 1982 began in Octobt:r.
arrived at Sakharov's Mosl"OW apart­That is a signiticant inl"rcasc from mt·nt last evening, shortly after she the $22 billion in new tax innascs "These ( dcfidt) numbers arc so rct'l'ivt·d word that Sakharov and his through I 98"f that Prt:sidcnt Reagan shaky, it's incredible," said ont: wik Yelena Bonnt:r had voluntarily proposed in St:ptcmber. sourl"c, who noted that the figures ended the hunger strike they began Reagan also has been reluctant to do not rdlt:l"t the spending l"uts and Nov. 22. make significant l"uts in his rcl"ord tax innt:ascs Reagan will seck when 
Miss Alexcyt·va, howcvn. said she dcfl'nsc budget plans. dcspitt: ur­he send his 1983 budget plan to 
has no intt·ntion ofk-aving the Soviet gings from budget dircl"lor David A. Congress late next month. 
ENJOY AHERTZ OR CHRISTffiA 

21 DAYS ONLY J294.00 OR J15.98 PER DAY
7 DAYS 

UNLimiTED miLEAGE
ONLY 
UNLIMITED MILEAGE 
Subcompact manual-transmiSSIOn car 
FOR RESERVATIONS, CALL: 
219/234-3712 
Larger cars available at higher rates. 
This year, forget the homeward-bound hassle. and hustle down to Hertz. We'll put you on the road in style at a rate that's hard to beat Just $98 for 7 full days wtth unltmited mileage for a manual-transmission subcompact car. If you are 18 or older. and have a student 10 card, and a vulid driver's license, that's all you need. Tell us what size car you would lrke, and we'll have tt ready for you start1ng December 17. So call now for reservations and let Hertz make Chnstmas a happter holiday. 
Rates are not discountable Gaso11ne. applicable taxes, opt1onal ColliSIOn Damage Wa1ver and Personal Acc1dent Insurance are not 1ncluded, No charge for m11eage All 
cars subJeCt to avadabd1ty Cars must be returned to the rent1ng locat1on no later than January 1. 1982 or h•gher publ1shed Hertz Daoly Standard Unlom1ted M1leage 
Rates woll apply to the ent11e rental per.od. and a drop charge w1ll also apply Ask for complete details 
#1 ForEveryone. 
HERTZ RENTS FORDS AND OTHER FINE CARS 
r 
The Observer Friday, December I I, I981 -page 8 

i 
I 
With finals approaching, many students will be staying inside and missing the natural beauty 
N.D. PARTY HEADQUARTERS 

2128 
Castillo Rum--white 1 Lite~ ..................$5.89  
Cases of Budweiser 24 to a case..0 0. 0 ......0 ..$6.89 Jim Beam Blend 1.75 Liter.o..~ ..........$9.99  
American Vodka liters ......0 0 0 .... 0. 0 $4.81  
PABST Case of Quarts BLUERIBBON ...................o • .......$8.99  

Council discourages use of preservatives 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Proces­sors should reduce nitrite preservatives in bacon and other meats and end most uses ofa related compound, even though health ef­fects of the chemicals are largely un­known, the National Academy of Sciences said yesterday. . 
The academy's National Research 
Council said it would be "prudent" 
to cut exposures to nitrite and 
nitrate food additives until further 
study determines whether they have 
a link to human cancer. 
Neither nitrate nor nitrite, used to decrease bacterial contamination and add color in meats, appears to cau~e cancer directly in animals or man, said the 500-page report com­missioned by the Agriculture Department and the Food and Drug 
Administration. 
However, .compounds called nitrosamines can form from the ad­ditives and many ofthese are known 
DuPont uses coal sales to reduce debt 
1 
CHARLESTON, W.Va. (AP) -Du Pont could sell about 12 billion tons Pont Co., owner of the nation's ofcoal reserves without touching its second largest coal producer, is operating mines or those planned preparing an "aggressive" campaign for the future. to dump coal reserves to reduce a "The committed coal properties 
$3.8 billion debt incurred when it are far more valuable than the un­purchased Conoco Co., industry committed reserves. They probably analysts say. have limited profitability. What The company's plan is to unload they're really saying is that we are selling off reserves that are probably
high-sulfur coal reserves, while
holding onto its reserves of more worth very little," Cohen said. valuable low-sulfur steam coal used This would mean that Du Pont to drive power plant generators, would seek to dispose of properties they say. for which it had no immediate plans, 
Earlier this week, Du Pont officials while holding onto active mining said the Delaware-based chemical operations and those close to giant planned to sell about S2 billion development. ofits "natural resource assets" in the 
Cohen said he believes Du Pont 
next three years to reduce the debt would try to hold onto its West Vir­
incurred in buying Conoco Co. last ginia and Pennsylvania reserves. 
summer. 
"The higher quality, low-sulfur Ap­
Du Pont's acquisition of the na­
palachian coal, those are the gems.tion's ninth largest oil company cost 
That's not going to go," he said. 
56.8 billion, including 53.8 billion in Another analyst thought Du Pont case. Du Pont Chairman Edward G. 
would have trouble if it tried to sellJefferson said the deal raised the lower quality reserves whilecompany's debt to an uncom­keeping its more valuable assets. 
fortable level. 
to cause cancer in animals, the coun­cil said. Therefore, nitrosamines are suspected ofcausing human cancer. 
The committee pointed out that meat preservatives account for only a small portion of the total human exposure to nitrosamines. Tobacco smoke, agricultural chemicals, cos­metics, beer and other foods ac­count for even larger exposures, it said. 
Nitrate can be converted to nitrite 
and then to nitrosamines in foods 
and in the body. The committee said 
there is evidence Vitamins C and E 
block conversion of nitrite to 
nitrosamines, but it did not address 
whether dietary supplements would 
provide any protective effect. 
"The elimination of nitrites from cured meats will probably not have a major effect on health," said Maclyn McCarthy of Rockefeller University, chairman of the committee that wrote the report. 
But McCarthy said at a news brief­ing that use of the preservatives should be curtailed in any case to reduce risks, even if no one is sure exactly what the risks are. 
The committee said nitrite use in 
bacon,ham and other meats should 
be reduced "to the extent that 
protection against botulism is not 
compromised." 
The committee also called for nitrate, a related compound, to be eliminated from all poultry and most meat products because there is no evidence it has any direct preserva­tive effects. 
Nitrate "may be necessary" in dry­cured meats, such as country ham and jerky, and fermented sausages, such as salami and pepperoni, and use in these products should con­tinue, it said. 
Nitrite has been added to meat for decades to give it a reddish-pink color, improve the flavor and inhibit bacteria growth. Nitrate is a similar compound that changes into nitrite. In meat, it acts as a reservoir of nitrite for longer preservation. 
An estimated Sl2.5 billion worth 
of food, about 7 percent of the food 
supply, has nitrite added to it. The 
food industry opposes any ban ofthe 
additive, saying it would increase 
spoilage, raise costs and possibly in­
crease food poisoning cases. 
When it bought Conoco, Du Pont gained control of Consolidation Coal Co., West Virginia's largest coal 
Ohio investigator calls 
producer and the nation's second largest. Analysts said Du Pont 
drug storY .~~ hoax'
probably would try  to keep Con­ 
solidation's valuable, low-sulfur coal  FORT WAYNE, Ind. (AP)  -An  
reserves of West Virginia, but one  Ohio investigator says a scare about  
analyst said the company might find  drug-laced  stickers  being  dis­ 
it hard to reach its financial goals by  tributed to Midwest school children  
selling just high-sulfur coal reserves.  is a hoax.  
Low-sulfur coal usually costs an  In a copyright story in yesterday's  
average of Sl  to  52  more per ton  editions of The Fort Wayne News­ 

than high-sulfur coal because it Sentinel, Jack McCormick of the 
burns cleaner and requires less pol­lution control treatment, said Terry Ideo, vice president of administra­tion for the West Virginia Coal As­sociation. 
Du Pont Vice Chairman Ralph E. 
Bailey said some ofConoco's coal as­
sets, held under its Consolidation 
subsidiary, would be included in the 
sale. 
"We intend to pursue an ag­gressive asset disposition program. With coal reserves exceeding 14 bil­lion tons, Conoco is well positioned to sell reserves for which we have no development plans in the foreseeable future," Bailey said on the last day ofa two-day seminar for financial analysts at Du Pont head­
quarters in Wilmington, Del. 
Industry analysts said they were not surprised by Du Pont's an­nounc~;:ment. "They obviously don't need 1.4 billion tons of coal," said Leonard Bogner, a research analyst with Bache Halsey Stuart Shields Inc., a New York brokerage house. 
Mark Cohen, an analyst with Kid­der, Peabody and Co., another New York brokerage, estimated that Du Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investiga­tion called the LSD-stickers story "the craziest rumor I've ever heard in my life." 
McCormick said the story started last summer when a memo he wrote about the possibility ofsuch stickers in Delaware state schools was inter­cepted by newspaper and broadcast reporters in Columbus, Ohio. 
The investigator said parents in the town of Delaware, Ohio, had heard rumors about the stickers and thought the stickers were being circulated in their town and not in the state of Delaware. McCormick wrote the memo after checking out the town of Delaware and finding no evidence ofthe stickers. 
"We checked it out," McCormick said. "First of all the rumors were originally about the state of Delaware, not the town ofDelaware. Second, it was just a hoax." 
Shortly after the memo was writ­
ten, McCormick said, "I got a call at I 
a.m. from a reporter who said the police found 5,000 tabs of blotter acid in the car (ofa man arrested in Columbus, Ohio). The blotters wre covered with cute little blue stars. 
"The reporter wanted to know if this bust didn't confirm the rumors ... but it wasn't true," the investigator said, adding that the stars didn't con­_tain any I.SD. 
Officials in Muncie, Gary, In­dianapolis, Fort Wayne and Hammond have warned parents and children about tattoo transfers pos­sibly laced with LSD. The stickers were said to be in the design ofWalt Disney cartoon characterslike Mick­ey Mouse and Donald Duck, as well ~ in a blue star design. 
Ray Golarz, an administrator for 
Hammond schools said he originally 
received reports ofthe stickers from 
Michigan and Chicago school ad­
ministrators. He said Thursday that 
Hammond narcotics detectives told 
him they had confiscated some of 
the drug-laced tattoos. -Jim-my Lawson, the Hammond 
detective who said the drug stickers 
had been confiscated, could not be 
reached for comment yesterday. 
The News-Sentinel said the drug 
stickers were reported in Indiana, 
Michigan, Ohio, West Virginia, 
Pennsylvania and Kentucky. 
"I'd think it was funny, but 1worry some fruitcake will read all the newspaper stories about feeding acid to school kids and decide to try it," McCormick told the News­Sentinel. 

------------------------------------------------------------·---­
---------~---~---­
Editorials 
Friday, December 11, 1981 -page 9 
Dodging The Real World 
For most undergraduates at Wake faculties have tended to shy from dis­will he diicult to overcome. Colleges clean air, active government and Forest University here, "current cussion on controversial issues and to across the country, bedeviled by a libertarianism. MoxweU Glen events" would seem confined to the rely instead on simplified, accepted shrinking pool of teenage applicants While the 70's saw colleges and financial woes, will be filling
upcoming holiday basketball tourna­prescriptions to complex 4ucsiions. increasingly bend to society's 
and_ Cody Shearer 
ments and midyear exams. In an incasingly unpredictable classrooms with students who arc demands, the 80's rc4uire them to Such matters as the opening round world, they have helped in­older and more geared to specialized provide direction. As the Carnegie 
Here and Now
of U.S. -Soviet arms discussions in stitutionalize predictably. training. Pofessors will also be hard­report concludes, the academic com­Geneva or the next budget show­Specifically, the best-read pressed to temper their "publish-or­munity must not only prepare the down in Congress would draw blank publication here 1s surely the p.:rish" maxim which may help to young for productive career~. 
This mandat.: may s.:en1 optimi~u.: 
stares here as at most other colleges. newspaper sports section; no one guarantee tenur.: but often obfuscates but. ..enable them to liw lives of dig­at first, making American youth feel "Civic illiteracy" threatens our lines up for copies ofThe Economist. their larger mission: a well-rounded nity and purpose ... not mere­part of the process might not be pos­democracy like never before, warn One of the librarians told us that per­student. ly ... increase participation at the 
sible. But any movement towards a more informed populace will be bet­
Ernest Boycrr and Fred M. Hechin­haps one-tenth of the 4,000 strong We must make every effort to fos­polls, but ... help shape a citizenry ger in a new report for the Carnegie student body subscribe to the local ter informed debate on impending that can weigh decisions wisely amd ter than the rut of ignorance and th.: Foundation for the Advancement of Winston-Salem Journal or Sentinel choices between guns and butter, in­vicious cycle of indifference that arc
more effectively promote the public Teaching. And the blame can't be newspapers. creased industrial production and good." curr.:ntly leading us nowhere. placed solely at students' feet: But she also suggested one reason 
Educators and the media aren't help­why this is so: Pofessors don't suffi­ing to foster good citizens. ciently encourage their students to ··Unless we find better ways toed­supplement class work with exta ucute ourselves as citizens," Boyer reading ofcurrent events. The lack of and Hechlnger write, "we run the student interest, in turn. may dis­risk ofdrifting unwittingly into u new l'Ouragc faculty members from 
kind of Dark Age--a time when keeping up th.:msclves. (Discovered small cadres of specialists will con­in the college library, one economics trol knowledge und thus control the professor conceded that he hadn't decision-muking prm:ess. read the Atlantic Monthly magazine "These high priests of technology int.:rvicw with Budget Director will understand, or claim to under­David Stockman, let alone assign it stand, the complicah:d issues, telling to his class. And h.: add.:d that most us what we should believe and how of his colleagues had probably not we ~hould act. In this new age of r.:ad it eith.:r.) growing confusions, citizens would When a student's only reality is make criticul d.:cisions not on th.: that which links schooling to n post­hasis of what they know, but on the graduate economics paycheck, he or basis of blind faith in on.: o anoth.:r she will inevitably leave political and set of prof.:ssed experts.'' social issues to th.: dreaded special­
Oti:ourse, medioa.: voter turnouts interest community. And that lead to and duonil' distrust of public institu­the blind faith that worries Boyer and tions have b.:.:n question.:d, debated Hechlinger. In the name of civic and bemoaned in an endless number comp.:tencc, the authors suggest 
of hooks and hroadcash. lacing courses "from literature to 
But, as Boyer and Hechinger note, nuclear physics" wth rckvant issues colleges have seemed either unwill­and questions pertaining to those ing or unable to counter this dan­fields. gel.JUS indifference. On the contrary, Of course, endemic civic illiteracy 
P.O. Box Q 
on campus: why should she not invite are false? A debate format would scrvatives who sit back and attack his who argues that the earth is flat? We
Professor dissenting theologians as well? Ob­have been appropriate for this opinions after they are published ­
would not invite proponents of these viously, members of other religions purpose: the 4uestion and answer never before-should pounce on my
views to speak because they hold do not speak for the Catholic period conducted on a random basis John Lennon column, published well
questions 
views which violate known truth: Church--all those who hear them does not allow for rigorous examina­before the anniversary, with a tardyi.e., that racism and genocide are im­are aware that have no power to tion of a speaker's views. Fur­response as incongruous as it was in­
moral, and that the earth is not flat. define Catholic doctrine. But we do thermore, how many of us are appropriate. That Lennon was not a
Kung 
Granted, truth about theological mat­hear other Catholics who speak capable of judging the orthodoxy of "working class hero" in the sense of
ters is not always as easily accessible To the Editor, against Church doctrine very often Kung's views? And, finaly, why the original song is obvious, but his
as truth about moral matters and as truth about physical phenomena, but
Hans Kung was invited to Notre on this campus. The Church, need we? The Church has made this ideals, his insight and his honesty arc Dame to speak about theological Catholics do have a reliable guide in however, has not pronounced on judgment. what have made him a hero to the matters. Notre Dame purports to be a their fitness to teach Catholic The public is most certainly going working class. That was my point.
doctrinal matters: the Catholiic Catholic University and one might doctrine. That is not to say that the to think that Notre Dame is, in effect, That Lennon was not a poverty level
Church is an institution which claims think that a Catholic University Church might not disapprove of scorning the Vatican with this invita­millworker is unfortunate, but also
to have the power to decide would work to teach Catholic much that is said in the name ofCath­tion to Father Kung. Is the view of irrelevant.
definitively and infallibly upon the doctrine. Is it proper to do so by olic theology on this campus; the public not a reasonable one to While we're on the subject ofTom
truth of certain doctrines and thus to inviting speakers determined by the nevertheless, the Church cannot be a hold? In years past such an action by 
Jackman abuse -a fairly popular
have the power to decide which in­Church to be teaching contrary to watchdog for all abuses. But in the Notre Dame would have been called editorial page feature-I would like
dividuals arc trustworthy teachers of Cathol'ic doctrine? As most know, case of Hans Kung, a man who has a scandal. Well, we may not use the tti respond to alll>ther response with acertain truths. The Church has final note: Virginia's Marshall•.he Catholic Church has said that caught the public eye and who term often these days, but the
determined that Hans Kung is not a stme of the positions which Hans publishes a great deal which departs presence of Hans Kung on this Coleman is most certainly clas­
reliable teacher ofCatholic theology. Kut".! holds on theological matters from Church teaching, the Church campus is indeed a scandal. sifiable as a conservative, and the
Finally, there is little evidence that are ·..compatible with Catholic must make clear to the faithful that Janet E. Smith fact that he does not meet Mills God­
Notre Dame holds as an absolute doctrine. i.e., that they are false. this man, a Catholic priest, is not a Faculty win's definition of conservative
principle the position that all view­Why was ol.ans Kung invited to speak reliable guide for Catholics in mat­(read segregationist) does not dis­
points must be heard: how often can 
at Notre Dal.c? ters of the Faith. Jackman qualify him in the least. Similarly,
one hear an invited speaker on the Some migh~o;ay that all viewpoints In what capacity, then, is Father Chuck Robh, while not a leading left­
Notre Dame campus who recognizes 
replies to
must be heard-~ especially in an Kung speaking on this campus? He wing liberal (as I noted) can hardly
the authority of the magisterium and 
academic setting.\'et is this an ab­remains a Catholic; he speaks on be labLicd a conservative, though his 
who speaks in support of the teach­
solute principle to w,ich there no ex­theological matters. Is it not right to critics political.ideals are subject to constant
ings of the Church? ceptions? Would we <llow a racist or view him as one who sp.:aks as a Dear Editor: shifts. Happy reading! 
Some might argue that Notre one adV!K ating genol.'ide•0 speak on Catholic theologian'1 Was he invited Tom Jackman 
Dame invites Jews, Protestants, and How amusing that Anthony Wal­
thi~ campus') Would we ''Vile one South B(•nd 
members of other religions to speak so that we mtght see that his views ton. who is so often irritated by con­


Founde'-li!Jovember 3, 1966 
T_he f?bserver is an independent n~er published by the students of the Untverstty of ~~tre Dame du ~a~ an~ Sam:'4:ary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the poltcJes of the ~d~mtstrattOn °.f et..,~r institution. The news is report­ed as. a~curately and. as .obJectively as possJbl~. b;torials represent the opinion of a maJ~nty of the Ed1tonal Boar~. Con:mentanes, 0 I-'lions and letters are the views of the1r authors.. Column s~ace ts. a~adable to all me.?ers of the community, and the free expressiOn of varymg opm10ns on campus, tlit"'4h letters, i$ encoura&cd. 
P.O. Bo:x Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (~<l)283-866I 
Editorial Board 
Editor·in·Chief........ ....John McGrath 
Executive News Editor.. . ............ Kdli Hint Sports Editor ..............................Michael Onman Neu•s Editor.. .. ..... Tim Vnn:llotti 
Photo Editor ........................................John Macor
Neu•s Editor............................. David Rickabaugh Editorials Editor.......................Anthony Walton
!)MC Executil'e Editor........... Mary Agnes Carey SMC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico Features Editor .........................Gregory Swiercz 
Department Managers 
Business Manager ......................... Rich Coppola Production Manager...................Michael Monk Controller ............................................ .)oe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley 
--------------------~ --~~-----~---------­
~~E)eatures 
7<q '· ,,~ • 
~....;:·~-' ' 
Reality loses out to Finals Week 

0 
Ouch. Apaper-cut on my typing finger. How I hate those 
little annoyances that make the big annoyances even more 
annoying. 
As I sit here licking my wound, I am faced with the physical 
evidence of what my labors are being called upon to produce. 
Textbooks, library books and sheets ofnotes cover my bed, desk, 
rocker and floor. The daily necessities oflife life sleep become 
luxuries in the face of what my academic resonsibilities require. 
Papers after exams, exams after papers. A never-ending series of 
pressures that only dissipates slowly as the car, bus, train or plane 
leaves Notre Dame and her golden dome. 
About the twentieth ofDecember, I begin to find the time to reac­
quaint myselfwith reality. I discover that I finally have the time and 
the inclination to read the bestsellers, watch the Christmas specials, 
and make the phone calls that"'""._.,_,..._,..._,..._,..._,..._,...'"7_,..._,..._,...=C7'::::­
I never had time for during 
the semester. Away from the T • B 
pressures ofschool, I can find 111'1 rown 
the time for these things. 
Time that until then, I Feature 
couldn't find nor make. 
Paper-cuts are there long before I realize their presence. Suddenly, the pain makes me wince and Igo searchingfor a bandage to repair the wound. The things that I face at vacation time are like my paper-cut; there but undiscovered until I have the time to look for them. Vacations and paper-cuts tend to remind me that I am human, something that I easily forget at this time ofthe year. 
During the last few weeks of the semester, I try in a superhuman way to accomplish all ofthe things that everyone wants ofme. At the same time, I neglect to be human enough to act on my human responsibilities. The natural tendency is to relieve the external forces before considering the internal ones. 
Any type ofrelationship is indicative ofthis tendency. Instead of 
having time to relax with a c'ose friend for a few moments, we only 
have time for the necessities. Communication consists ofthe five 
pages worth of research material in the philosophy paper or the 
phone call to get the last assignment. We have time for these things. 
For others, we don't. The sad thing is that we forget that we can 
make the time. In our forgetfulness, we stop being human enough. 
In the Notre Dame encapsulated environment, we acquire a tele­

scopic awareness ofour direction and goals. In our pursuit of 
stability and security in the future, we neglect the opportunities that 
the present affords. Our reality becomes a reality oftomorrows, not 
todays. Our relationship with this university is characterized by 
education. Academics become our only concern, but that is only half 
an education. The other half lives in todays, in being human enough. 
"December twentieth's" find us possessing only have an educa­
tion. We try to catch up with the world oftodays that became yester­
days before we knew it. 
Vacations find me reading newspapers, magazines and junk mail, 
writing unanswered letters and making long distance phone calls to 
the very people from school that I didn't have time for during the 
semester. I try to compress into one short period oftime ill oflpf. '-"'• 
realities that have unfolded around me. IfI had been r;asonabiy-in­
telligen.t, I .would have watched reality as it was unfolding. But I 
didn't. I have caught myself not being human enough. 
What ifI had been human enough? I wonder. 
"What ifs are only good for forcing us to become human enougn. 
They are like paper-cuts. They remind us ofrealities we have let slip 
by or have taken for granted. They jerk us out of"tomorrow-living" 
and plop us into "today-living." They require that we be human 
enough to want the regret ofthe "what ifs" or the pain ofthe paper­
cut to subside. 
Perhaps all ofthis is rather platitudinous. I thought so until I dis­covered how much I hate regrets and paper-cuts. I recognized slowly, the choice before me, to continue to be superhuman and live with "what ifs until December 20 again, or Icould nurse a paper-cut, 
Friday, December 11, 1981 -page 10 
-----·····---··---------·---..---·--------·----·-· -----·----··-··-·--· 
1981 produces fewer quality films 
T 
he task ofdesignating the "top ten" films of 1981 proved to be a rather difficult undertaking, primari­ly for two reasons: I) the past year witnessed the release offew excep­tional films, and 2) the box office ap­peal ofsuch films continues to wane. 
Film 1981 
Pat Mulligan 
--------------~------­
Unfortunately a majority of the 
American filmgoing audience 
prefers the simple-minded ad­
venture yarns ofLucas and Spielberg to the more arcane yet imaginatively superior films of Malle and Resnais. But lest ye despair, a handful of quality films did manage to rise above the commercial pulp churned out by Hollywood this year. R.tther 
than arbitrarily rank these artistic achievements let's review them in alplabetical order: · 
Five Quality Films of1981 
Atlantic City 
( l.quis Malle dirn•ll>r) Malle has directed a string ofsupe­rior films in the last seven years -
Lacombe, Lucien,Murmurofthe Heart,Pretty Baby-andAtlantic City further enhances his rep-uta­tion as a film master. This tale of lovers and losers gambling with des­pair in the title town represents an extraordinary exercise in style and 
atmosphere. Burt Lancaster deserves an Oscar nomination for his mal'Velous performance as a loner livin~ on deferred hopes. 
Breaker Morant (Brian Bere~ ford director) 
Though produced in Australia in 197'-J, this iilm was tirst released here last winter. Based on te court martial ofthree Australian soldiers during the Boer War, Beres­ford integrates a tight narrative form with some stunning landscapes to 
create a finely textured composi­tion. A water shed for the commer­Lia! distribution offilms from the Australian New Wave. 
Chariots ofFire 
(Hugh Hudson director) 
llud~oll J'<'\'1 n·, I<' tlagguog 
British cinema with this historically romanticized version ofEnglish ath­letes at the 1924 Paris Olympics. A rhythmic and lyrical film about ath· letic competition and human com­passion. The title refers to a line from William Blake's preface to Mil­
ton 
Moo Oncle de Amerique 
(Alain Resnais director) Somewhat ofa departure for a filmaker who has remained in the forefront ofin­novative cinema since the French New Wave of the 1950's. Renais ex­plores relationships between three central characters whose lives become entangled by chance in a witty and insightful film laced with 
, commentary by behavioral scientist Henri Laborit. Renais' consistent production ofquality films over two decades continues. 
Prince ofthe City 
(Sidney Lumet director) 
An uncompromising ex­position of moral relativism in modern America. Lumet's camera conveys a pristine sense ofurban blukn.-"'i which buttresses a fine perl01 "'1nce by Treat Williams as Det. Danny Ciello, an undercover cop willing to sacrifice anything for self-catharsis. Undoubtedly the best American release of 1981 (thus far). 
Though not in the same class as 
those listed above, several films 
deserve honorable mention: 
AlteredStates Ken Russell's jour­
ney into the realms ofhuman con­
sciousness suffers from the 
director's self-indulgence but the 
hallucination scenes are terrific. 
Blow Out Brian DePalma pays 
h<.cmage to Hitchcock in this 
~uspenseful tale ofpolitical assasina­
tion and cover-up. 
Body Heat Lawrence Kasdan's steamy reworking ofDoubleIndem­nity. 
Gallipoll World War I epic given a massive injection ofstyle by Australian Peter Weir. t 
lili Marleen R. V. Fassbinder con­tinues his domination of the New German Cinema 
Man oflron Andrzej Wajda's "fictional" documentary ofPoland's Solidarity labor union won the 1981 Grand Prix at Cannes. 
Ofcourse 1981 was a year filled with disappointments as well as surprises. After lengthy reflection several films stand out as unsatisfac­tory exercises in competence: 
Five Overrated Films of1981 
Arthur Dudley Moore is not only unfunny, he's repulsive. Here he is at his worst as a millionaire drunk. Ha Ha ija. 
le Dernier Metro (The Last Metro) Francois Truffaut continues to sacrifice substance for acces­sibihty. 
Raiders ofthe lost Ark Perhaps what is most disturbing about this George Lucas/Steven Spielberg col­laboration is the graphic violence (gun shots in the head, mutilation via rotating propellers, etc.) aimed at an adolescent audience. But 
wasn't it a "fun" movie? 
See FILMS, page 11 
Questions ofChristmas 
B 
ecause...just because. That was always the bottom line, the last word. 
Throughout my inquisitive childhood, that's what they said to get me to shut up. 
"Why this mom?" "Well, because ofthat." "Why that?" "Because such and such." "Why such and such, mom?" "Just because!" 
Ican remember playing that game 

......... 
Second Thoughts
-----· 
alot -regarding the trivial and the 
profound, with friends and stran­
gers. Last night, while watching the 
snow quilt itself to the Norfolk pine 
outside my window, I decided to 
play'it again. "Why Christmas?" 
That phrase is new to the 
"Christmas" word association game 
-Merry, White, Blessed but never 
"Why?" We spend much ofour lives either looking forward to or 
reminiscing about this time ofyear. Perhaps the answers are too ob­vious. 
Why, for example, Christmas Cards, Hallmark style? I spend hours searching for the card that says ex­
WhyKris Kringles? When I was little, I thought that those name-picking gift exchanges were for practice, so that when we found someone we wanted to give a present to, we would know how to go about it. Now they're even more worried that we'll break the rules of gift giving ettiquite-pick a name, find out who he or she is, buy four "small" gifts (about adollar) and one large gift (about ten dollars) and give them at 3 or 4 day intervals. And 
don't forget your "Thank You" note. Why Christmas bonuses? Who do you send the "Thank You" note to. 
DearMr. and Mrs. McDonald Douglas... 
Why crowded, noisy, overblown and overdecorated midnight masses with zealous, mink-clad parishioners (excuse me for being a bit zealous myselfthere) each trying to sound like a choir ofangels? Why use tim­panis, harps, trombones, glock­enspiels and countless voices and instruments to perform a song that was composed for one guitar and one voice -a song about asilent night, when all was calm? / 
But these are all Christmas triv"' I suppose that I throw these ov..rirst because I am putting offtly<<>ugh c:uestion. The one that ~y shows us what kiiJd oflunattrNe are dealing with here. /. 
To ask "why c~tm_as?" in the 
When He was here He showed us that He was as crazy as His Father was. The things He said and did were so crazy that we only hear about them in a room that is unlike any other room. The room's uniqueness tells us that we are listening to crazy things; that they should be taken tongue-in-cheek. Ifwe are outside that room and hear people saying things we usually hear inside that room we ignore them or chuckle or get aqnoyed or say things like "self· righteous" or "pretentious." W" tell them to mellow out. 
But the ultimate lunacy;,; I think, our doing. Why do we c("ebrate Christmas? Perhaps to ,i!OW our gratitude, to return tJie favor. Per­haps because we ho:>e to somehow understand all thi'· I will go to mass and give gifts ioLhe name of Christmas, m?fbe even give some money to cptrity. Then, as if I have paid my gp.tutitous debt or finished my rewtrement in Christmas I 0 I, I will..tY "that is enough. No more of 5P"i Christmas stuff." How absurd. 
/ I hope to meet a Christmas Lunatic this year. I already have an­ticipated the encounter. 
I will see a man -a bell-ringer ­perhaps with afrozen moustache, on a crowded street corner. His red bucket will be empty and I will not give for fear ofstanding out among the crowd. But 1 will talk to him. 
bandage it carefully and allow it to keep me aware ofreality while it  actly what I want to say. I can't just  most basic sen~ls to dJscover pure  "Why do you do this?"  
healed. Ifound a box ofCurad's and a friend to talk to. We forgot about our exams and papers for ten minutes and took care ofthe need inside. I found out that I like todays, and the tomorrows that come out of my todays, more when I am human enough than when I am not. Ifanyone would like to join me in being "human e!lough," I've got plenty ofpaper and a whole box ofCurad's to share.  say it, write a note, or even worse say it, live and in person. Next year I'm going to buy "personalized" cards, which means a machine will stamp my name on them, which means they are mechanized, which means they are "personalized."  lunacy. Why .ould someone send his son frO" up there to down here? Wh wq'd he even consider going? 1a~ 1;>/lng reservations about dov/volunteer work for a year, or ~going to the Chicago ghetto for /-weekend. What a picnic.  "Why?" he will repeat. "Yes... Why?" "Oh...just because." With this, I wil fell a little less ab­surd, but a little more like a lunatic. Merry Christmas.  

The Observer--Features Friday, December 11, 1981 page 11 

The cup I left behind tne 
T
he cup I left behind me was the chalice 1used at my 
first Mass. It was a gift to me on the day 1was or­
dained. I didn't expect, when 1became a priest, to have 
a chalice of my own. It was on the altar, waiting for me 
that t1rst day, a handsome gold cup with my name on it. 
It would be as personal to me as a friend for the rest of 
my life. 
Chalices, in those days, were speciallly made. Before 
being used, they were consecrated by the bishop for 
liturgical service, for it was considered a great honor for a cup to be used as a vessel of the Sacrament at the sup­
peroftht· Lord. The cup had to be worthy ofthe dignity of the daily occasions when the wine poured into it would be blessed as the Precious Blood ofjesus. There was a golden plate that matched the chalice called a paten; it was used for the Eucharistic bread. It was as lovingly made as the chalice, and was its partner in the service of the altar. 
!loved dearly the chalice I was givl·n at ordination. I used it every day. rubbing it carefully with a flannel cloth after t·ach Mass to keep it gleaming. The wine I used was as golden as the cup itself, and I would sometimes imagine God's presence as having the brightness ofsunlight as it is capturt:d in light-bearing things. One docs not, ofcourse, worship a cup, no mat­ter how bt·autiful he think~ it is. Yet, for a priest, a chalice might represent his inexperience that seemed likl· innocence. and his participation in the mystery of 
an ancient ritual whose truth was sung in Eucharistic 
hymns. My chalkc, I always felt, would always be a 
young priest's chalice, no matter how long I used it. It 
would always remind me of the sweetness of the 
springtime in the year I was ordained, when I woke up 
in the morning. happy with the thought I would be 
saying Mass. 
Asobering day comes in marriage, they say, when couples realize that the honeymoon is over. For a priest, the first fervor fades, tht• hurts begin, and the fencing with pain starts for the rest ofa lifetime. You can blame yourselt~ you can blame the world, but something un­changeable has happened, and experience loses its in­nocence. You cannot say: "The highlight ofmy day is to oftcr Mass." You nt:ed victories more than sacraments; . and in the battles you face, you win a few, and you lose a few, as the saying goes. 
Every chalice has a personal symbolism for the 
owner. None of us ever expects to se-c the Holy Grail. 
We may even doubt that there w:~s so magical a cup. 
having such an identity ofits own that it would appear 
in mystical vision to pure-hc.trtcd knights. Without 
believing the folk-lore, a priest might think ofhimselfas 
needing to be worthv ofa cup he respects as though it 
were given to him:<li"his own pcrsonalgrail. He needs to 
like himself before serving an immaculate sacrament 
from a golden cup and a golden plate; otherwise he feels 
mocked by tlte very things he touches. 
One September, in the eleventh year of my ordained 
lik, mor• trouble came to me than I could handle. I 
movet•away from a family 1 could no longer help. I 
moved away from friends whom !love too much. There 
w:~o• a place I cherished where 1no longer belonged, and 
[.\ere wasn't anything 1could do about it. I left my 
chalice behind me. 
For nearly seventeen years, it remained in the sacristy 
of the ('hapel when~ I used to say Mass, representing 
me, or at least reminding people that I had been there as 
a priest faithful to the altar. I wanted my chalice there, 
Rev. Robed Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
rather than here, because ofall the past times it 
represented. I refused many times to take it or have it 
brought to me. 
Last Sunday, while Iwas in Boston during a blizzard, I 
decided to bring my chalice home to Notre Da~e. My 
emotions on the weekend surprised me: the chapel 
where the chalice was kept has recently been retired 
from usc, since the priests and brothers have moved to 
another place. I realized it was loyalty to my dear 
friends that made me want to keep my chalice in a home 
I loved so much. As I packed away the cherished cup, 
tarnished and dirty from years ofdisuse, I felt as ifl were 
putting together the pieces ofmy life. I had gone to Bos­
ton for a Mass and Communion breakfast with the Notre 
Dame Club. The event was cancelled because ofthe 
snow. Instead I came home with my chalice. I had the 
feeling that the Providence that guides our life was 
writing the scenario, with the assistance ofthe Notre 
Dame Club ofBoston. I bless the Notre Dame£1ub for 
their kindness... ! feel that God's blessing was on my trip 
to the Hub. 
As I cleaned my chalice for usc at Mass on December 
H, Our Lady's feast day, I thought ofthe ending ofEvelyn 
Waugh's novcl"Brideshead Revisited." The Catholic 
chapel at the country home named Bridcshead is again being used for the reservation of the Blessed Sacament, because of the troops billeted there during wartime. The family that lived at Bridcshead has been destroyed through death and tragedy. The estate itselfhas become seedy and rundown. The place is like the desolate city ofthe Lamentations, but the book ends on a note of quiet joy, because the lamp is burning before the bronze doors ofthe tabernacle to signify the presence of the Lord in the Eucharist. 
For me, there is a quiet joy in using again the chalice 
that reminds me of my t1rst years as a priest. Something 
blue-veined with grace is happening in my life, I think, 
but what it is, is full of mystery, either oflife or new 
beginnings. Not all ofit is in place yet, because the paten 
given to me is not my paten; it is not the one that 
belongs to my chalice. It must seem odd to say that after 
seventeen years, I am anxious for the return of the 
original plate. 
The grail legend remains with us in diminished ver­
sions, as one searches as though on a quest to find his 
way back to original grace. · 
MANY THANKS TO THE LADIES OF NOTRE DAME 
FOR THE GOOD THINGS TO EAT THEY MADE FOR 
THE STUDENTS AT DARBY'S PLACE ON THANKSGIV­
ING DAY. 
MANY THANKS TO THE RIGHT TO UFE GROUP IN 
PUTTING ON THE CHILDREN'S ST. NICHOLAS' DAY 
PARTY ON DECEMBER 7. 
MERRY CHRISTMAS TO EVERYONE FROM DARBY O'GILL AND ME. IF YOU ARE IN NEW YORK, CALL ME AT ST. JOSEPH'S RECTORY, 371 6th AVENUE. Phone:212-742-1274, or 212-924-2110. 
Happy Birthday to Darby on December I 7. He will be two years old. 
• • • Filtns 
The rc-rekase ut Martin Scor­
continuedfrom page I 0 cese'sNew York, New York played True Confessions An erratic and to much acclaim in at least one visually dull creation by Ulu Gros-town. An underrated box office dis-bard. DeNiro and Duvall arc unable aster finally garners some recogni­to salvage a lifeless script. tion. Wolfen Many felt Michael Wad-Michael Cimino'sHeaven's Gate leigh's urban horror film proved to be the biggest financial represented a new twist on the deb_acle in Hollywood history. Friday the I jth genre. They were Cim\no's success with_~e Deer wrong. 1Buried My Heart e~t Hunter propagated-~.e~tessive Wounded Knee meets 11:,e }f.erewolf .. filll)._ r~p~ted to have lqs(,close to sic; nulhon. As a result thl· studios 
Notable events o f 1981: 
arc now reasserting control over Francis Ford Coppola's restoration film productions. and release ofAbel Gancc's Holiday Fare Napoleon surely reprcsl~nts the The Christmas season has tradi­cinematic event of the year. The tionally provided for the release ofa surprising success ofthis venture large number offilms hoping to snag bodes well for similar enterprises in some ofthose shopping dollars. the future. Treat yourself to one or "lore of the 
The Features Department 
Wishes all 
Merry Christmas! 
follwing films over brea 
My Dinner With An re Louis 
Malle films an hour and half dinner 
conversation between a playwright 
and a stage director. Have faith in 
Malle-it can't be as boring as it 
sounds. 
One from the Heart Francis Ford Coppola promises a new art form: '.'elect~.onkfinet;na." Based on .Copj'lola'stratk-record (The God­father, The Conversation, Apocalypse Now) one is almost tempted to believe him. 
Reds Warren Beatty's ambitious 
treatment ofsocialist newspaper­
man john Reed's life has already 
oencd in many parts of the country. 
The success or failure of this 111m 
may dictate the future ofintelligent 
American cinema. 
A FINAL PREDICT' JN· Prince of 
the City and Reds wH di\ f up the 
majority ofthis 
year's Academy Awards next April. 
Atlantic City may or may not 
surprise. 
( The writer wishes to acknowledge 
the imperious opinions of Prof. J. 
Duffy, Dennis Chalifour, and john 
Mulligan in association with the 
preceding article. ) 
ND giftgiver explains his duties 
A 
s finals approach and the semester winds up, thoughts turn to 
Christmas and its festivities: Parties, big meals, family gatherings, 
and most ofall, gift giving. Everyone loves to do it, even the Univer­
sity wants to get into the act. To see how the school selects and gives 
gifts, I asked around and finally tracked down the pl·rson in charge of 
it. I located his office in the Ad building and went to pay him a visit. 
"Why docs the school want to give gifts at Christmas?" I asked, as 
we settled into chairs surrondcd by a sea of boxes, wrapping paper, 
and packages. 
"Well, it makes us appear more human," the official said, smiling. 
"We don't like people to think we're some impersonal monster with 
no name. So we have Santa leave them a little surprise under the tree 
from us." 
"Whom do you send presents to?" 
"Oh, everybody that's beenl...,....,_,,.,,_,,_....-.......----...........---­
good...to us. We like to show · ·' ' ·.. · · · '· 
our appreciation to Robert Wck 
everybody that gives their a 
little bit to make N.D. great." 
He got up and reached into a ----­
box, and put something on Humor 
the desk between us. Unwrap­
ping it, he said "Take this little item for instance. We send these to 
the alumni." On the desk before us was a ceramic model ofthe man­
ger scene, replete with wise men and sheep. I also noticed a small 
slot on the top ofjoseph's head and picking it up, it felt hollow. 
"What is it?" I asked. 
"Holy Family piggy banks," he said gleefully. "The alumni till them 
up wth money and then send them back to us. See, we put a little 
note in that says they can only be opened by a member ofthe clergy, 
y'know, sacred statuary and all that. Then we keep the money be­
cause no one would dare ask for money from a priest." He clapped 
his hands joyfully. "Isn't giving fun?" 
"As if we don't give them enough already," he muttered sullenly. 
"Yes, they get gifts." He reached into another box and pulled out a 
doll-sized figure. Upon closer examination I saw it was dressed as a 
priest which looked vaguely like Father Ted. It also had one ofthosc 
pull rings attached to its side. Cheering up, the official handed it to 
me. 
"Here, give it a pull." With a wary look, I accepted it and drew the 
string out, then let it go. In a scratchy recorded voice the doll said, 
"No kegs allowed on campus! Don't have sex! Go to Mass!" 
"What is this?" I demanded, slightly shocked. 
"What do you mean? You don't like it? It's so the students know we're thinking of them over the Christmas holidays. Everytimc they get lonely for N.D. all they have to do is pick up their Talking Ted and pull the string. They'll be right back at home." He looked at me with a puzzled expression. 
"That's o.k., you don't have to send me one." I replied. "What else are you sending?" 
"Well, for Gerry and the football team, we· .e gotten an extra spe­
cial surprise." He reached under the desk and pulled out a large stack 
ofpapers and plunked them on the desk. He did this several times un­
til the top was covered by foot high piles ofpaper. 1picked a sheet up 
and saw it was a release about the next year's football season. 
"I don't get it. What's all this?" I asked. 
"Hype." he answered with a twinkle in his eye. "We're giving 
Coach Faust more pressure next year than he ever d t reamed of. 
We're releasing these bulletinsstarting Ch~istmas day. They.coiUain 
all sorts ofrumors about him beingdismissed, how well we're going 
to do next year, why we didn't do well this year. It should do him lots 
ofgood. He'll love it." Great I thought to myself. "And for the guys on 
the team, we've got something too." He pulled out one ofthose Bud­
weiser season schedules for 1982. On it tw• >of the opponents had 
been taped over and the Washington Redsldns and Nl·w York Giants 
had been written in. 
"We think they need a little bit more ofa challengt·. They probably didn't do well this year because they weren't playing worthy op­ponents. We're also trying to schedule exhibition games against a team made up of wild animals; y'know, bears, tigers, elephaqts, poisonous snakes. It'll be good publicity to show how tough we are. We'll have it in the stadium, charge a couple of bucks to get in and give it to charity.1t won't really be football, but boy will be exciting!" His eyes shone with Christmas spirit. 
"Thank you very much," I said getting up to leave. This was a very interesting talk." I made for the door as quickly as possible. "Wait!" he shrieked, jumping up. "You won't tell anybody will you? This has to be a surprise! Giving gifts has to be unexpected!" "I won't tell." I promised. 
~ 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------,. 
Classifieds 
Friday, December 11, 1981 -page 12 
NOTICES USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED., SAT., SUN. 9-7. CASPERSON, 1303 BUCHANAN AD , NILES. USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought, sold, searched ERASMUS BOOKS. lues-Sunday, 12-6. 1027 E. Wayne (One block south of Eddy-Jefferson Intersec­tiOn)  I need a nde to and from the Phtladelphta­AIIentown, PA-South Jersey-Delaware (you get the tdea) area for Christmas break. I can leave Thursday ntght, December 17, around 6:15p.m. and can share expenses. Call Ttm at 1536. Need a nde to and from Northern N.J. for Christmas break. Rtght off Route 80. Can leave Saturday morning. Call Mike 1181. FOURTH FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED FOR TWO BEDROOM CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENT. CALL 272-1661  ROE FOR SALE· UNITED AIRLINE TICKET FROM LOS ANGELES TO SOUTH BEND ON JAN. 11. ONLY$160! CALL FRANCES AT 283-4233 LOOKING FOR THE PERFECT X-MAS GIFT FOR YOUR PARENTS OR FAMILY ? CALLJIM AT 3282 '76 FORD MUSTANG II, yellow, am/fm stereo, gd. cond. $1800/pnce neg. Peter x8603, after 11 :00  To Ed K. The man w1th more ma1l boxes than the post office and more titles than the library Keep filing, keep writing and keep 1n touch Ortt MAC Try to have a Merry Christmas, even tf you do have to spend it in thts God­forsaken town. But then, you Hoosters don't mind this white stuff. Take care and keep 1n touch. I'm not leavtng the country (US! yet Ortt  A CHRISTMAS ABUSE PACKAGE from Cheryl E. Dave (alias Herbte), I'll be watching for you on the Rudolph spectal. How bout them ears! Do you really wantto be a den­tist? Orti. I hope Santa bnngs you a years supply ol Mr. Bubble. You never know when you'll be in the mood for some good clean fun! John (the one w1th the uncon­trollable dnve), May someone watch out for you on your tnp home ie. let someone else dnve. unless of course you can red1rect your speed and obey the traff1c s1gn. Chns. l hope you get a Chnstmas  Thts semester I met a really mce young farmer's daughter" type who I came to apprec1ate qu1te a lot. A super fnend and someone who I've had to protect from cer­tain undestrable literary elements, so no names. Say Hi to Phyllts for me when y·all get home. I'll matl you some sunshtne (Ho Ho Ho)-see you-Jtm P.S. Just for you, my Best Xmas Joke Ever! Q: what do Santa Claus and a Little While Mouse have 1n common? A: they both have Long Whtte Beards. ex­cept for the Mouse!! a good one. eh?  
Watch lor The Soctety for Crealtve Anacronism nghl after Chnstmas break!  TWO ROOMMATES NEEDED FOR HOUSE ON NOTRE DAME AVENUE  TICKETS  PROTECT YOUR CAR Cover 11 wtth a durable canvas cover fat less than list  tree that doesn't lose its shape when the needles fall. Tom, May Santa bnng you relief of your foot fet1sh so you can move  General Hosp1tal1s a program for general lunatiCS.  
CALL 232-8301  pnce! Call Bob Findling at 1463.  up to btgger and better thtngs. Paul, May  HiOrti!  
ATTENTION ALUMS & CHICAGO BOUND STUDENTS: The Notre Dame Club of Chicago will sponsor their annual Christmas Mass and Brunch on Dec. 13, 1981 at tlam. Mass wtll be held at St.  Rtde needed to and from Tampa, Flonda for Christmas. W1ll share expenses and driving. Help Please. TONY 3079 or 3070  Two Foreigner ttckets for sale. Bleacher seats. Call272-6802 after 11 p.m. NORTHERN ILL. TIX 3793  DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO Ctnctn­natt ON SATURDAY, DECEMBER 19. IF YOU'VE GOT ROOM CALL Jim AT 1026  Santa take ptty on the rest of us and bring you a bar of soap(dtrty mouth), a toothbrush and a belt( or at least a patr of pants that stay up by themselves. Mike Monk, May you ftnd the cheerleader of  To all features writers: I would like to thank Paul Kostdowskt and all the other wnters who I have had the pleasure to meet and work with. May your  
Michael's Parish 1n Old Town Brunch will follow at 12:30 at the Ambassador West Hotel. Please contact JoAnn at the N.D. Club office at 312-263-6063 for reserva­tions Need nde to Oklahoma? Leave AM 18th or 19th 1n ?-passenger van for Tulsa and Oklahoma Ctty areas. $25.00. Call 277­3293. ATTENTION ALL ST LOUISANS; Your St. LoUIS Club IS hosting tis Christmas Break RIDER LINE !!!I! If you need a nde or nders, call Sharon at 6553. Good luck on your ftnals!! looktng for a nde? WILSON DRIVEAWAY has cars. One-way transportation Your cost 1s gas & tolls (depostt required) call B0Bx3185 Observer Party this Saturdayllf Stop up to the office for ddetalls and your tickets. OKLAHOMA' I need one nder for break $50 round tnp. Call Kevtn at 234-9709 LOST/FOUND  HOUSEMATE WANTED:OWN ROOM­100/MO.& UTIL CALL 289-5964 AFTER 5PM Need ride to and from ATLANTA for Xmas break. Can leave EARLY on DEC. 15 or later. Will share usual. Call Cathy at 4-1 4424. WANTED. RIDE TO EAST PA ON I 80 FOR XMAS. CALL 1820. Need a nde to CLEVELAND for xmass call Denms 3452 Need a A1de to Syracuse, B1ng area. Anyttme after Thursday 17th. Wtll pay the usual. Call Meg at 6926 Need ride to D.C.. V1rg1ma area tor Chnstmas break. Can leave Fnday eve­ntng. Please call Henry at 1132 STORAGE WANTED: I need to rent a garage or park1ng space for car over wm· ter Must be a sheltered space Call Jack Kettel at 6986 before 16 Dec 81 I need a nde to and from Long Island. NY Can leave late-afternoon of Dec 18-CALL CHUCK at 8920 Thanks! AIDE WANTED TO NORTHERN NEW JERSEY (AT 80) ON FRI 12118 WILL  PERSONALS I don't really do this too often, but I feel that I have come of age. I would like to thank all of my dear photographers lor a fun, successful, and generally fascinating experience this semester. I would like to specifically thank Rudy, Rachel, Cheryl, Tom, Linda, Dave, Nick, Chris, Greg, Beth, Susan, Gon­zalo, Tonia, Carrie, and Carl. Thanks for all of your hard work and patience with my Incurable Insanity (sorry folks). Merry Christmas to you. Now, for eveyone else I know..... Doug and Gabe, It's going to be real strange not having you guys In my classes next semester. I mean, after three and a half years.... I hope we can still get together to party. California here we come, huh Doug. Ann, I am sorry Iff act like I don't believe In your plans, but I really think you can do 11. I'm not a sexist. More power to you. Peggy, I hope you are here with is next semester, and maybe even next year. Your the sweeteSt quiet person I've ever met. Dr. Miller, Dr. Pasto, and Dr. Bottel, thanks for your time and help. To all the people at that crazy place called THE OB­ From LONDON. Handsome GREEK stnkes aga1n! To the greatest g1rl tn the whole world, a MARRY XMAS!! Lots of luv PAR, ME L Welcome back and Merry Chnstmas! J. Mary. Katie. and Sue. We definitely have to get together on another quarters game After all a certatn statue IS 1n need of a new costume. Have a great Chnstmas and Happy New Year Love. Mon1ca P.S. Katie-try and remember where you live while you're home. I'd hate to thtnk you would spend Christmas w1th the wrong famtlyl D1Je to space lim1tat1ons I'll have to men­tion numerous illustnous friends together 1n thiS personal: Shan -a new package of morals, the old one IS weanng out Lon-a boyfrrend wrth a REAL name Kathy -A BAG New Year that you'll remember! Amy Jo-Your present Will be delivered to the NO campus next semester -PREPARE Cheryl-More branchtng out! You re dotng good so far Fttz · Not to,be a fag  your dreams in your stock1ng on Christmas morntng. Joe, I hope you get a nicotine fit on Chnstmas and ftnd only candy ctgarettes in your stocktng! Shtrley, Thtnk of the OBSERVER when you reach for ANOTHER dnnk on New Years Eve. Dtane. With the comtng of the new year a bliZzard of loving abuse Will snow you in. Skip, Anyone who can't pass Photo I deserves to have a NEGATIVE holiday season. Perhaps you'll DEVELOP some talent next semester or STOP trytng. Rac­hel. Merry Chnstmas to the Co-Prestdent ofthe JOHN MAC OR ABUSE CLUB. May Santa bring us more one-liners and a btg­ger lens to work wtth. TO THE REST OF THE OBSERVER STAFF WHO I DID NOT GIVE ABUSE GIFTS TO, I WISH FOR YOU ONLY A MERRY CHRISTMAS German Club Happy Hour Today from 4 until 7pm Grace Penthouse Nancy, Shawn, Helen, and Meg, Have a Merry Chnstmas and a Happy New Year! Hope to see all (tncludtng number 2 m thi! above salutation) at Sen1or Bar next (and Last) semester En­JOY lhe Holidays. Mtke and Rich P.S. You ftnally got your personal Ms. Shell Whrch one of the Btg 8 are you gomg to choose? P.P.S. Don't cry Meg  Chnstmas be grand and I hope to see all of you next year. Gregory Sw1ercz LITTLE RED-HAIRED GIRL: My hie IS gotng to change drasttcally when you're gone. You see. I've grown ac­customed to your face. (Yes another am­btguous song) Don't you fret. Thts IS JUSt the beg1nn1ng Have yourself a Merry htlle Christmas. Love. Greg Ouard: 01d you know the last t1me a sports editor left the JOb at the official end of hts or her tenure was Mark Perry tn Aprrl. 1980? Well. there are only 14 more edtt1ons of Irish Items to grace our pages. You'd bet­ter start grooming a successor. Good luck 1n the future. We both know you'll go far. Marry Christmas to the all­Amencan couple Ortt P S. May K.C.'s lack of a Sunshtne Band WI your bucket w1th happ1ness. CHRISTMAS PRESENTS: 0111-get a clue Dekalb bag" John-get a hie Sure-Born Ltghtwetght· Spike-get a town Boston Brew-Buddy" Jay-get a maror Frank-uh huh, sure, yeah, nght.. Joe-Who IS Joe Howard?  
LOST: NO CLASS RING. OUTSIDE SENIOR BAR FRIDAY NIGHT NAME INSIDE IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL PHIL PERKINS AT 8338 LOST: Tl-58 CALCULATOR YOU CAN'T MISS IT; CRACKED DISPLAY IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 277-7794 MY CAREER AS AN ENGINEER DEPENDS ON LOST: N.D. CLASS RING, Tuesday morn1ng 1n the 2nd floor men's room of the admtn bldg Quarter palladium. green. •ound-faced stone. S.G. Mtller. 81-'82" engraved on tnstde My mother wtll ktll me 1f I go home for Chnstmas Without it! If found. please save me by callmg Steve at 233-4381 or 232-5352. LOST GOLD IRISH CLADDAH RING. t.e. HEART, TWO HANDS AND CROWN ON IT. 14K GOLD. REWARD IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL 5265 SMC LAURA  SHARE USUAL. CALL JACK 277-1185 NEED RIDERS to Terre Haute. IN . Fn Dec 18th Ca11Joe1697 NEED A RIDE TO FLORIDA ANYWHERE AROUND THE JACKSONVILLE-DAYTONA AREA FOR CHRISTMAS BREAK WILL SHARE USUAL CALL GREG-8222 HELP NEED RIDE TO NORTH JERSEY. anywhere off 1-80 Can leave on Thursday mght 12117. Call TOM at 2187 NEED AIDE TO SAN ANTONIO OR ANY MAJOR TEXAS CITY...CALL JOHN AT X1605 FLORIDA RIDERS 287-7157 I NEED RIDE FOR XMAS BREAK TO EITHER NEW YORK CITY, PH ILLY OR BALTIMORE-0 C AREA. CAN LEAVE 12119. WILL SHARE USUAL CALL WILL  SERVER: John, Mike, Kelly, Dave, Mike, Monica, Lisa, Suzanne, Dierdre, Maura, Skip, Greg, Tony, Rich, Joe, Tom, Tim, Paul, and all you peeps, especially Bruce, Merry Christmas and a partying New Year. Now to all the people with whom I come In contact with here at N.D., those with whom I share classes. meals, parties, and whatever, Merriest Christmas to all. Now, this is going to sound trite, buill Is slncere.....May that peace that has eternally been associated with Christmas find its way Into ail of your hearts. The Photographer (JEM) Tom Brady, Roses are red Christmas lights are shocking II sure would be nice Findtng you tn my stocking BtfsAngel Davtd.  Denms-Some real roommates Jeff-To be a real roommate Dan-I have a 1eehng you already got your present-from someone else. Andy -a REAL maJOr with at least one final My final Christmas wish is for those two dear people who hve with me: Amy and Julie, It's been a great semester. The story hours, Mtdmght jam sesstons. and general wetrd happemngs have kept the ttme fun. Look forward to more of the same. Merry Christmas to both of you I hope you get EVERYTHING you want, you deserve tt. Love, Montca P.S. I know-sappy! NLS, Three months! Thts is ABSOLUTELY a record! MAS  T1m G.. You can't hve w1tout SMiCs, but they sure as hell can hve wtthhout you!! NO's newest organ1zat1on!!! The I am a Gook Club ... for more tnfo, call Ttmothy G. 3698 Merry Chnstmas and good luck on finals Richard· you'll owe me dinner and a play in Chtcago for sure. Don't call me on X­mas to tell me it's 75 and sunny 1n LA; that's a cold thmg to do and it'll be cOld enough in lndtana without that. I'll call and warm up your day tnstead.Take Care. Love always ChQryl Rudy, this personal Is good for one free professional backrub, even If your back doesn't hurt. Merry Chrlatmas. love cheryl Veronica, I hope your sculpture turns out well.  Joe-Who IS Joe Howard's roommate? Tim· are those ears really yours? James-get a hum1d1f1er Dave T-s1nk clogged? Brian P-remember Pearl Harbor Dave-get a state Sunshtne Stud' Brian-late mght bed we«tng Craig & Fran-tw1n sons of Spilman's mot­her Spilman-&$(:)$&!?;?! Pauline. RETURN MY SOAP! Dave-take a shower, huh, please? Javl-1 have to ktss my mother.. Mike P-How far away IS that Golf Course?.. Conelty-Pulled any good boners lately? Rod-get one Kary-get (onort/) a real calc (snort/) prof (snort/) (snort!) .. Jerry-where do you stick all that Mazola that you rip off from the dining hall? MERRY CHRISTMAS, CAVANAUGH 1 8 (you too, mooch) signed, GOOD KID  
LOST: YELLOW PHYSICS NOTEBOOK, INC LINE. PLEASE CALL JIM AT 3274 OR BRING TO 216 KEENAN. HELP!!!  AT 8635 Need nde to BOSTON-To leave between Wed.Ntte & Fri.Noon-Have Music-Gib- Roses are red Whtte IS the snow Save me a kiss Under the mistletoe  ToourMGGOC, THOMAS JAMES (CY), Hope you have a HAPPY BIRTHDAY-­we don't see how you can w1thout us!  Have a Merry Christmas and don't get too uptight about finals. G.J.  CONGRATULATIONS JPK! CLASS OF 81 112 AIN'T 112 BAt:J.LQVE,  
LOST 12/9 LADIES GOLD BENRUS QUARTZ WATCH SOMEWHERE BE­TWEEN ACC & NORTH DINING HALL REWARD IF FOUND CALL7126.  1628 RIDERS needed to COLUMBUS,OH. for break. Call Mike 288-9892  Cathy Bruce. Make sure you get that gift for yourself which you so nchly deserve. No guts, no  Have a great break too, and have faith ~ WE'LL RETURN!!! Your Fan Club. K&D  One semester is JUSt about Done, You'll return to NY and I to the Sun. Remember however: A rose will always be a Rose, If the key remains Auxiliary!  STETZ, How about my last fling ..  '84  
LOST: Tl-55 calculator tn Cushtng Hall, room 209 between 9:00 and 10:00 classes last week There was an Emil Pe­nodtc Table tnstde the case I badly need 11 for finals. Please call Joe at 1427. Reward.  DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO CON­NECTICUT OR NEARBY FOR XMAS BREAK. CAN LEAVE ON THURS. NITE.WILL SHARE USUALCALL DOUG AT 8310. HELPII! URGENT !!!! TWO guys NEED  glory-GO FOR IT. Have a very Merry Christmas. Love, Momca John. May you fill up on all sorts of good things thts Chnstmas like PDA. alcohol,  SPECS, It's that ltme agam-Finals and your BIRTHDAY!!! Hang tn there, It'S almost over. You'll soon be home and then--GO WILD!! I HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!!!!!!!! We Love You. K, DO, Mup, Pam, and Brenda  AGAIN. I will say that day One­For me has sttll only Begun. So over Xmas, send me a hne or g1ve me a Buzz, 'Cuz a better GA than you -there never Was! PLUTO  love, your liNie Magnolia Blossom P.S. No Camara, but you're still invtted to VISit me at Tara ASSOCIATE WITH US I! INFORMATION ABOUT THE HOLY CROSS AS­SOCIATES VOLUNTEER PROGRAM  
nde to NJ/NYC/PHIL area for  X-MAS  and your weird  practices. (This is  AVAILABLE  IN  VOLUNTEER  
.CAN leave FRIDAY CALL 6802111!  meant for McGrath, you couldn't be so  Merry Chnstmas Rtch. Bill, Kevin Davtd,  We'd like to get to know some he-men.  SERVICES OFFICE, 1.5 LAFORTUNE.  
FOR RENT  ]  RIDERS needed to COLUMBUS.OH. for break. Call Mike 288-9892  lucky Macor!) Merry Chnstmas John! Love. Monica  Terry, Pierre. Rob, Kegs.Dennis, Tom, and Mike. Good luck on all your finals Luv Suzanne  Where can we sign up for the HMWHC? The NO Fratermty of Gay Males  CONSIDER BREAK  US  OVER  CHRISTMAS  
FOR NEXT SEMESTER HOUSE AND APARTMENTS 234-2626 N.D Ave. Apts. has furmshed apts avatlable. Call234-6647  DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO CON­NECTICUT OR NEARBY FOR XMAS BREAK CAN LEAVE ON THURS. NITE.WILL SHARE USUALCALL DOUG AT 8310.  Monk,(alias Prod) For your Chnstmas present I hope you get a REAL girl, not JUSt thai one whtch is a figment of your 1mag1nat1on Come on we all know there IS no such person as Jen­nifer she sounds much too good for you. However I hope you have a great  Prod It's not that I don't want 11. but do you deserve it? Design John.  Carne. The term for you ts soctally spaced" that at ttmes I wonder if your popcorn has been laced! But your a good chtca-though at ttmes you need a clue. So to Siberta is where I've dectded to send you!  Rachel got me to type these In for her by offering future consldarationL Mer­ry Christmas, Raehell Tom A recent na!lonwtde telephone survey  
Avatlable second semester, completely furnished. comfortable house, close to campus, rooms for 1 to 6 people. $500 semester plus uttllttes. Call 288-3942 af­ter5:30.  HELPIII URGENT !I!! TWO guys NEED nde to NJ/NYC/PHIL area for X-MAS . CAN leave FRIDAY. CALL 6802111! RIDE NEEDED TO BALTIMORE­ANNAPOLIS-WASHINGTON AREA  Chnstmas. I look forward to a lot of stalk­tng tomorrow night. Thanks for all your support thts semester . Love. Mon1ca P S. You look like hell yourself'!!  If you come w1th another g1rl tomte, you pay, but 11 you come alone or wtth me, tt's free 9 to 5 HMWHC -Get a real cause Real men  Have a great Xmas-Relax and g1ve my love to Mom and Dad! Guess Who? CONGRATULATIONS D&H1! Your engagement is a f1ne thing But  has revealed some starthng results. Of 1,119 Interviewed, an unbelievable 94.5 percent now consider Polly and Jane, na­tionally acclatmed fetsty wenches, to be even more fe1sty than the prev1ous record holders for fe1st1ness. Dons and Kat1e. 3  
CLEAN 2-BEDROOM MOBILE HOME FOR RENT, 2 MILES NORTH OF NO. $270 PER MONTH LANDLORD PAYS ALL UTILITIES. 272-0116.  CAN LEAVE THURSDAY--WILL SHARE ALL COSTS, CALL DAVE 232-3181 RIDE Needed to anywhere near Bin­ghampton.N.Y or Scranton,PA. Will  Patty. Its been one semester wtthout you and ITS BEEN HELL! Get out of the Iron Ctty and come back here where you're are really needed. Hope your ftnals went well.  donn have to brag about thetr attnbutes. JUSt look at the guys from Dtllon. Hav1ng dates & hav1ng fun On the twelfth day of Chnstmas. the Iowa  JUSt remember. when Jun•or comes along and asks why he IS gotng bald. you'll have to tell htm that hiS uncle IS not totally out of the ptcture. The Second Great Recesston  percent still believe that Kat1e and Dons are the fetstlest, and 2.5 percent did not know what the term meant Most of those voting for the new champions claim that Dons and Katte 1ust aren t as fe1sty as  
ROOMMATE WANTED-completely fur­nished apt.-kttchen. bar, cable-call Dave at 283-1169  share all usuals. Call Ed at 8886. Need nde to east Pa. for Chnstmas break. Along 1-80 to Danville. Call Dean 8643  Can't wa1t to show you a certam pic! Merry Chnstmas. Love. Mon1ca Ruth-Hop tn the car wtth Hulley, we need  Hawke yes wtll gtve thetr loyal fans· 15 completed passes (by Gordy Bohan· non) 14 dozen yards rushtng (by Phtl Blatcher)  2000 mtles away, but getting closer every day. a little gth gtrl. at home  they used to be. perhaps because of thetr recent obsession of hangtng out at local rad1o stat1ons on Saturday mghts. hsten­tng to hours and hours of Bad Company  
Share House: furn1shed. good neighbor­hood. $100/moand 113uhl 287-0356.  RIDE NEEDED TO PENNSYLVANIA­CENTRAL. ANYWHERE BETWEEN EX­ you too!!! Sally.  13 solo tackles (by Andre Ttppet) 12 brutstng blocks (by Bruce Kt«le) 11 dtvtng catches (by Ivory Webb)  soon I'll be there, no longer a care lor a ttme away from the Dome 9 more days ttl I see her agatn  and Elv1s Costello. Amencans are Slm­stmply getttng ttred of thetr elittst atttludes and sextst happy hours. leavtng the door  
Furn Efftctency $100 month also 1&2 Bed Apts Close to N.D & town call255850  ITS 12 AND 19 ON PENN TURNPIKE-WILL SHARE USUAL CALL ED AT 8904 ANYTIME  Thanks for the chotcest Chnstmas present l ve goNen lfl a long t1me Too bad 1! couldn't be delivered PERSONAL­LY. Hope you have a great Chnstmas tn  9 p01nts tn field goals (by Tom Ntchol) 5 50-yard punts (by Reggte Roby) 4 quarters of great coachtng (by Hayden Fry)  Boy. what some people w1H do to w•n the good graces of people from Califorma. Dorene has a strange m1sconcept1on  open for Polly and Jane to assume the Throne of Eternal Fe1st1ness. Polly Wllllm­mmedlately begtn tounng London wh1le Jane will dtsplay her fe1stmess nght here  
St. Joe and that your new year IS PRIME  3 tnlerceptton (by Mel Cole)  about her Htgh School, but what do you  1n the M1dwest for awh1le  
WANTED  I I  FOR SALE  Love, Mon1ca M1ssy and Mananne. Its been great thts semester I think we'll  2 recovered fumbles (by Mark Bortz) and a Rose Bowl VICtory! -a loyal Hawkeye ian  expect from a SMC chtck. nght guys? But I'm glad we had such a great semester . and I better get to see you some t1me over break 11 you know what's good for you!  The Survey T taker Demse -lor helptng out dunng tough ttmes, my thanks Have a good break and  
.......  L----­ have lo get together wtth some people to  Paul-­ Stay on the plane 1111 you land -have a  I'll see you agatn tn the late-mght spot (not  
Need nde to Cleveland for Xmas. Please  test our theory on ways to sw1m faster"  Get a few less real Jobs!!!  great Xmas and a Happy New One!!!  qUite as often. If my body knows what's  
call John at 8450  Merry Chnstmas to both of you  good for me)  
Love. Montca  Dear Tommte Walsh- Here s to a great gal who runs around  Who Else?  
Ride needed to Ptttsburgh/Wheellng area  SURPLUS JEEP. Value $3196. sold lor  The binoculars are workmg fine They  playtng her flute-a-phone and has her  
for Chnstmas. Can leave Tuesday night  $44 Call312-742-1143ext 7316fortnfo.  Lady D1 Schunk:  are even more powerful tha I thought  room1e g1ve me the third degree over the  JLK -1 mtssed you 1n class yesterday.  
or Wednesday. Call Scott at 6931  on how to purchase ~argatns like thts!  Merry Chnstmas!!!!!!  Where dtd you get that little mole I've  phone. It's gregreat to have a related  (But at least you had a legt1tmate excuse!)  
Your happy ham  notiCed on your .. ?  roomte. 1sn t it (htc) ?! Don't lose the tick­ Best wtshes for a happy Chnstmas and a  
Need ride to ATLANTA for Chnstmas.  FOR SALE: 75 watt stereo receiver wtth  Farm distance but close m heart.  ets, Marc1a, and have a great chnstmas  merry New Year  and stay healthy; I'd  
Can leave Wednesday  a~ernoon.  Call  equalizer,  tape  deck,  and  patr  of  Ortt Say By  THE SECRET ADMIRER  !!!!!  like to see you play somettme.  
Dave at 6931  speakers. Call Cecil Rucker at 8223.  see you on de· plane  F D"  

Sports Brie_b 
Ill I ilt' 1J/JS<'J'/'<'1' aml//1<' .-lssucilll<'<i l'rt'ss 
A limited number of individual game tickets remain available for four games on the 1981-'82 Notre Dame home basket­ball schedule. Tickt.•ts are on sale at Gate I 0 of the ACC for the Val­paraiso (Dec. 21 ), Davidson (Jan. 16), Maine Uan. 27) and Northern Iowa (Mar. 2) contests. There is no limit to the number oftickets an individual may purchase. All tickets arc bleacher seats at $4.SO each. -The Observer. 
Strength development and conditioning ~nd its relation to all sports will be the subject of the first Notre Dame Strt:ngth and Conditioning Clinic scheduled for today and tomor­row. Registration begins at 4 p.m. tomorrow in the auxilia~ gym· nasium of the Athletic and Convocation Center. For further information call Bill Allerheiligen or Gary Weil at 7784. -The Ob­
senler 
Everyone was a winner_ in thcloner~cs for tickets 
to the Notre Dame basketball games agamst Mtssoun, LaSalle and Virginia. Those who registered for the lottery must pick up their tickets today or Monday. After that, the remaining will go on sale to all students. Tickets may be picked up/puchased at the Student Uni­on Ticket Office/Record Store on the first tloor of Lafortune. -The Obsen1er 
The Observer's sports staffwould like to take this opportunity to wish everyone in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community a very merry Christmas and the happiest of new years. When we return in january, we will have a new sports editor. Senior Skip Desjardin will be replacing Michael Ortman who is step­pin~ down to pursue other interests. Desjardin has been writing for the sports department for two years, and at present scrves as as­sociate sports editor and basketball beat reporter. -The Obseroer 
Classifieds 
Friday, December 1 1, 1981 -page 13 

Tomorrow's Game• Yeaterday'a Reaulla N.Y. Jets at Cleveland St. Louis 3, Boston 2 
Mtnnesota at Detrott Detroit 4. Minnesota 1 
Sunday's Games 
Today'a Games Balltmore at Washtngton 
Toronto at WashtngtonBuffalo at New England 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE Montreal at Winnipeg
Cincinnati at PittsburghNATIONAL CONFERENCE Green Bay at New Orleans 
N.Y. Giants at St. LoutsW L T Pet. PF PA 
East ::t¥BASKETBALL
San Otego at Tampa Bay y-Dallas 11 3 0 .786 336 254 Mtami at Kansas City Phtladelphta 9 5 0 . 643 320 200 Chtcago at Oakland
N.Y. Gtants 7 7 0 .500 262 237 NBA 
Houston at San Franctsco 
Eutllt'n Conference Washtngton 6 8 0 .429 279 328 Phtladelphta at Dallas Atlantic Dlvtalon Seattle at Denver 
StLouis 7 7 0 . 500 305 350 
Central W L Pet. GB
Monday'I Game Philadelphia
Tampa Bay 8 6 0 .571 272 227 16 3 .842 
Atlanta at Los Angeles Boston
DetrOit 7 7 0 . 500 335 295 t6 4 .800 5 Green Bay 7 7 0 . 500 286 32.6 tO 9 .526 6
New York Washington 6 12
Minnesota 7 7 0 .500 312 314 ,.,_,, __ .,,,',,.~.'_,,_•,••.•,:,~,:,~,.,'_..•_,•.••'HOCKEY _.,.,.,., .....__.,.,..... _._.__,._ .333 9.5 
New Jersey 
5 14 West Chtcago 4 10 0 .286 195 294 :!~~!!!fM~~li~~![!!!~t: .263 ft 
Central Division Milwaukee
x-San Franctsco 11 3 0 786 308 227 t3 6 .684 
lndtana
Atlanta 7 7 0 . 500 382 304 NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE 11 9 .550 2.5 Atlanta
Los Angeles 5 9 0 .357 275 305 Top 16 teams quality lor playoffs 8 10 444 4.5 Detrotl
New Orleans 4 10 0 .286 183 322 W L T GF GA Pta 8 12 400 55 Chtcago
Edmonton 18 7 6 175 1t6 42 8 12 .400 5.5 Cleveland
AMERICAN CONFERENCE Buffalo 15 6 7 109 84 37 5 14 263 8 East Boston 16 8 4 111 7 36 Waatern Conference 
W L T Pet. PF PA Phtladelphta 17 10 1 t09 105 35 Midwest Division Mtamt 9 4 1 .679 312 262 N.Y. Islanders 15 8 4 1t3 97 34 W L Pet. GB Buffalo 9 5 0 .643 286 250 Quebec 15 t2 4 t41 134 34 San Antomo 14 5 .737 
N.Y. Jets 8 5 1 .607 313 271 Minnesota 12 7 9 121 93 33 Denver 8 11 .421 6 New England 2 12 0 .143 291 328 Montreal 12 7 8 129 8t 32 Utah 8 t2 .400 6.5 Baltimore 1 13 0 .71 222 474 Vancouver 13 11 5 109 98 31 Kansas City 7 12 368 7 
Central Pittsburgh t3 tt 4 103 103 30 Houston 7 t4 .333 8 Ctncmnatt tO 4 0 .714 374 266 Chtcago tt 8 8 127 tt5 30 Dallas 4 16 .200 10.5 Pittsburgh 8 6 0 .571 326 259 Wtnntpeg tt t2 5 109 t27 27 PKI!Ic Division Houston 6 8 0 .429 254 307 St. LOUIS 11 15 4 105 126 26 Los Angeles 16 6 .727 Cleveland 5 9 0 .357 242 319 Calgary 9 14 6 111 144 24 Golden State t2 7 .632 2.5 
West N.Y. Rangers 10 15 3 93 115 23 PhoeniX 12 7 .632 2.5 Denver 9 5 0 .643 274 241 Detroit 9 15 5 108 127 23 Portland t2 8 600 3 KansasCtty 8 6 0 .571 326 267 Hartford 7 t2 8 92 107 22 Seattle tt 8 .579 
3.5 San Diego 8 6 0 .571 431 357 Toronto 7 13 7 1t7 122 21 San Otego 6 t2 333 8 Oakland 7 7 0 .500 257 297 LosAngetes 10 16 1 11t 136 21 Seattle 5 9 0 .357 267 344 Washington 8 t7 2 101 113 18 Yesterday's Reaulla x-chnched division title Colorado 4 19 5 69 142 13 New York 106, Detrottt01 y-qualified for pta yoffs Phoemxt17, Portland ItO 
Do you thtnk he's really spandtng his Saturday mghtstudytng? EYEGLASSES NEEDED: A group IS g01ng to Honduras to provtde eye care for the poor by examtmng the" eyes and dlspenstng glasses from a library of used  Hooray! This year is finally drawing to a closelit's about lime we get the hell out of here, anyway! I NEED A VACATIONIIIIII Did you know that II Ia really a Chrlatmu Moose leading Santa's sleigh thla yearllllllllll  Bob, Try not to get lost tn the fog over Chnstmas and I'll try to steer clear of space shtps on the side of the road. Thanx for all the rides. EnJOY your Christmas in Ft Wayne since 11 may be your last for awhtle. Does it snow 1n Belgium? Love Cheryl  STOMP OUT .DISCO AT SENIOR BAR THURSDAY NIGHT WITH LESL TIEIll Tom Brady, Roses are red, Christmas lights are shocking, It sure would be nice  Hey Pseudochque: Feliz Navtdad to all of usl (and God bless us, everyone!) Entoy your vaca· lions and try for my New Year's partyl Love yal Toe-Knee-Chest-nut (bun-who-nose)  HI BRUCE I I JUS! though I d wnte you a personal too. Merry Chnstmas, see you after break--ladmtllhatl do let the Moose catch me. PeepI Monday Ntte Destgn  
glasses Ove< break please collect prescnplton & sunglasses you and your famtly no longer use and drop off in Per­ Beth, Laune. Katie, Amy; Good Luck 1n London!  Merry Christmas to my fellow S3 teammates. We were awesome. (Maybe  Finding you 1n my stocking. Bif'sAngel  OBSERVER PARTY THIS SATURDAY. FORGET ABOUT FINALS WITH THIS  Paul, even you get p01nls for betng a member of the abusive staffers Suzanne  
sonnel Offtce.Campus Mtntstry.or Volun­teer Services. Tomorrow mghl In The Underground, the NO SMC Theatre will present three  T'Pam, Best wishes in the New Year to both you and Dave 4 East Keenan  Santa will bnng me glasses for Christmas) Cheryl the one-eyed volleyball player Tom, You couldn't expose yourself In a darkroom. let alone get anything to  Chns N. Now you're the only one left who remembers the good old days of Sparta layout people. Long live the compugrap­hics. Good luck in lhts busmess, and don't  PRE-CHRISTMAS BASH. GET YOUR TICKETS FROM DIANE. Dl8rll IS Shirley's new replacement. She has all the ltckets to the Observer Party  Merry Chrlatmaato the poor typaaatter who struggled to typasetallthese clas· stfteds sympathetic staffers  
one.'act plays, one by Lanford Wilson. one by Sam Shepard, and a new play by Adi Tngtant.al 8 p.m. Admtsston IS Free. Be There! Oavtd, Roses are red While IS the snow Save me aktss Under the mistletoe Cathy To All TOOTS CLUB MEMBERS Have a great Chnstmas and a rockin' New Year and 1want to hear some wild and crazy stones when I get back! Love ya' TOO MUCH To the WEEBLE,a Meg-a-QUEEF, a JULUSH, a REETS, and an INTROVERT: If exams go WELL We'll<eturn to this HELLI And on Jan. 16TH throw a Great BASHI We'll look. & we'll rate. & we'lltoss out the TRASH! So take ol yourselves, & remember to gtve me a call But have a FUN Chnstmas, Whtch IS mosttmportant of Alii Guess Who???? ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTES SPEND YOUR EXAM STUDYING HOURS AT THE ONE AND ONLY DARBY'S PLACE, LOCATED IN THE BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE WE ARE OPEN FROM MIDNIGHT UNTIL THREE BEFORE EX­AM DAYS C~la Lucero: Not only am I gtving you a Happy Birthday Pllt'aonol. but I'm even putttng 11 In bold typal Hope II'S happy. Rtch P.S. Save me a dance at the Mardi Gras  PROTECT YOUR CAR Cover it with a durable canvas cover for less than list pncel Call Bob Findling at 1463. DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO Cincin· nail ON SATURDAY, DECEMBER 19. IF YOU'VE GOT ROOM CALL Jtm AT 1 026. DearOrti. I'm really going to mtss your smiling face next semester! Thanks for every­thing & visit us oHen. Cheryl & 1are split­ling you and Skip between us--get out the Mister Bubble! Rachel Merry Christmas to Dave ·sun-In" Dzied­zic, Bruce Rawhtde" Oakley. & all other strange, but loveable Observerites. Love. Rachel What do Mtke Monk & John Macor do 1n the darkroom together? They look like hell! Merry Christmas, guysl Rachel JL..lie: L.;sa, M;chelle and Maureen ... Have a merry Chnstmas and a great New Year (behave yourself on New Year's Eve Lisa!). Don't forget to g1ve Tom and I ring next semester.. Only $8.00 for ten m1nutes! T•m Rose: One last personal. Good luck on your t~rst round of fmals. You'll be home 1n lovely Oak Park before you know itl Have a merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. If I run mto any Gallaghers on the Emerald Isle, can I hit them up for a drink? Thanks for putt1ng up with met Tim  develop. Get a real sexual identity! Cheryl Chris. I'm glad you finally approve of the work I do 1n the darkroom; you are harder to please than Macari Merry Christmas CE The He-Man Woman Haters Club is having a bit of dissension in the ranks. The Prestdent and the Press Manager (that's me) are trytng to tone down the abuse, but the Vice-President and the Dic-tator really love the abustve per­sonals and scream for more. So the Club IS presenllng the following two personals for our readership to enJoy. The HE-MAN WOMAN HATERS wishes the entire ND-SMC community a very merry Christmas and the Happiest of New Years. All ofus hope your trips home w//1 be sale and speedy, and, especially for you guys, the girls bach home are warm and cuddly. We a/so want to remind everyone that as members of the Notre Dame tradition, we are expected to out-party the entire nation come New Year's Eve; Have a radically far out Ume/11 But make sure you stay safe over the entire holiday season -we wouldn't want you to miss our ads next semester 1 yours in mistletoe, the HMWHC ATTENTION· ATTENTION As the semester draws to a close. the He Man Woman Haters Club are happy to be finally able to spend some t1me with some real women. not the so·called women (non-males) who restde on the ND-SMC campuses. Sonn we will be able to relieve our DSB. and get into some of the healthy heterosexual ac1tvtty we have been depnved of for the last 4 months, not be­cause of the unwillingness of the non­males of the ared. but because of the  be so eager tp get1nto my bedroom. ATTN NO MALES: Are the pressures of ftnals getting to you? Let Coleen and Elaine help to relieve some of that ten· sian. Call1335 anyttme before midnight. Thanks, Bones, you pilled me from death's door. I'll never forget you. Don Rami Ulysses G. Stnger What? Is this open season on Macor?t WILL PAY BIG $$$ FOR TWO FOR­EIGNER TIX. Call DOUG at6166. Observer Staff: Happy Holidays. Office wtll be open early next week (Mon. or Tues.) for your checks. However, you must be present tomorrow night at party to be eligtble McGrath TYPING DONE ON CAMPUS BY PROFESSIONAL SECRETARY. LOW RATES. QUICK SERVICE. CALL X· 1315. NIGHTSOUNDS 105 FM 10:30 P.M ATTENTION MOLARITY FANS If you mtssed it the first lime. Mtchaet Molinelli's f~rst book. On the Road to Sell­Ing Out, is now in available in an in· credible FOURTH printing. and can be purchased at the Notre Dame bookstore. Also S1ill available Is the moS1 recent Molanty release. Don't Meke a Right, an­other extraordinary Jumper Press publication. Both books make a great Chnstmas gift. and are only $2.95. Get them now, before they're all GONEIIIIII SAY HAPPY HOLIDAYS AND SHOW HER THAT YOU CARE WITH A BOU­ lhts Saturday. so. stop up and say hello" when you ptck up your ltckets to lhts gala event (to be covered 1n the People" sec­lton of both TIME and NewawMk magaztnes). CHRISTMAS CRAFTS SALE to beneftl Sr. Mana's Pnmary Day School to be heheld in the Memonal Library on Thurs.­Fn. Dec. 10-tt from 10a.m. to tO p.m. Pottery, plants. X·Mas cards, kntlled items, etc. Sponsored 1n part by the soph· omore class. Julie, Ltsa, Mtchetle and Maureen Have a merry Chnstmas and a great New Year (behave yourself on New Year's Eve Ltsal) Don't forget to gtve Tom and I nng next semester...Onzy $8.00 for len minutes/Tim Rose. One last personal. Good luck on your ilrst round of ftnals. You'll be home 1n lovely Oak Park before you know 111 Have a merry Chnstmas and a Happy New Year If I run tnlo any Gallaghers on the Emerald Isle. can I hllthem up for a drink? Thanks for puUtng up wtth met Ttm Merry Chnstmas and a Happy New Year to all my friends and acquaintances. Also to all those who read the tnv1a quiz and/or listen to the Ttme Tunnel, for wtthout you I would be JUSt another face 1n the crowd (well, I am anyway, but that's another story). Thanksforagreat198111 Tim Neely Samar Formal t982 needs a theme Any suggestions call: LISa 1992 Mike 1369 N1n1 (SMC) 4826 Kathleen 277·2207 SANTA IS GIVING OUT A's TO ALL GOOD CHILDREN AT THE K at C  Dave. A very Merry Chnstmas to the only guy who treated me nghl on Monday night Luv. Monday Ntle Destgn Merry Chnstmas to the best productton staff around; Greg S.·You can work jUSt one more. week, can 'I you? Deirdre M-A livtng anachrontsm. LIN B.· Traveling to the Yukon 1n search of moose. Monica The Sweater Glri·Just you, the Farmer Boy, and Elsa the Cow, a warm fire, a bottle of w1ne Meura M.-She certatnly knows how to produce and makes the production manager very happy. Merllyn L.-Comes through 1n the clutch Tim F.-What can you say ~bout a guy who windsurfs 10 December? Su.renne L·J know what you want for Chnstmas, you feisty wench For all those Interested. Suzanne's tavonte song ts Bad Company's Fee/ Uke Making Love Tim N.·The old man of production who bnngs a new meamng to the phrase you look like hell. .. Mlka M.·Shave Randy R.·Pholo file always looks like hell Jim Keyea·Keeps Maura sa11sl1ed when I'm not around. Mery Shllla-Bnngs grace and beauty to a staff that really looks like hell Carth-Do{j, Leurs D., Dody C., Jeenlno H.,· It's your fingers thai make 11 all pas· stble Have a hellish Chnstmas. PROD MIKE ORTMAN and TIM VERCELLOTn Thanks for a Job well done. Orty. don't work too hard on school work. gradualton tsn'tthe mosltmportant thtng 1n life. Tim. en1oy the London Bureau. but beware the lerronsts. Rtch  
Dance· a-than NEW JERSEY BUS. STILL A FEW SEATS AVAILABLE . TO EAST BRUNSWICK AND NYC. CALL MIKE AT 1077. I read ·Stmon" because the day that it's funny. I'll be thereI Or 8 teet under, whichever comes f~rst. To Becky, Colleen. BooBoo, Sara. Kath· leen, MoniCa, Carmen. Ctndy and Dtane over there at wtld third floor Regtna South.. GOOD LUCK ON FINALS & HAVE A MERRY CHRISTMAS AND HAPPY NEW YEARIIII BIOLOGY GRAD STUDENTS Thanks for a great semeste<. Luv ya all. Francte. (PS Bart you really do have cute legsI) KATHLEEN RUDD. To a person who deserves a personal more than anyone I know Best wtshes for ne•t semester and the rest of your career here It was fun knowtng youl Oh. yeah. Merry Chnstmasl Your Fellow LogiC Scoper ~ DEAR SHORT·SHEETER. You're gotng to pay for that one I Last lime you get to mess With MY bed. THE LITTLE REDHEADED GIRL  Veronica, I hope your sculpture turns out well Have a Merry Chns1mas and don't get too upttght about ftnals Thanks, Bones. you ptlled me from death's doo(. 1'11 never forget you. Don Remi Ulysses G. Stnger Merry Christmas John, Mtke. Susanne, Tim, MAC. Bruuuuuuuuuuuuuce, Ort1e, Cheryl, Tom, Shirley. Dtanne, and everybody else--tt's too late to 'type you allm, I've a religion paper due tomorrow. Good luck on finals, Noel. & a happy New Year. De~rdre Limn Sciana: · Wishing you best luck on finals, aMerry Christmas, and a very happy New Year. Yours truly, your Kris Kring/e Handwntmg analyzed by Johns Hopktns grad. For oost results, several paragraphs on unlined paper, but anything OK. $5. John Young. t902 Claudia Circle. Val­dosta, GA 31601. Hey Little Ray of Sunshine! Sorry your btrthday IS over break Have a happy one anyway! I love you, be purel FrUitcake  unwillingness of our membership to 10wer their standards. Realists that we are, we understand that in three short weeks we wtll be back under the Golden Dome. once more depnved of the beauttes of back home. Nevertheless. we will not buckle under the pressure, and will con­llnue to stay free from the Domerldus Brutus. or common ND-SMC non-male. Be assured that the return of school 1n January Will be accompanied by the return of the HMWHC to thts column. Merry Chrlatmu theHMWHC VtCKi .... SOMEDAY may be sooner than you thtnklltl Rachel. may all your shots be good ones Have a good break; in other words. don't get lost in a snow dnft 10 those Iowa cornfields. Me agatn (AFA) T a Seven SMC Sophs, Thanks. 409. For the J D . the unreal car(don't ask me... ).Mtlwaukee girls, Go Go's. Get a clue! Thanks for the lime! a NO Frosh Tr. Colleen N .. You owe me a dance! f.ii:Eo FitoE :res L.oNG ISLAND FOR CHRISTMAS. CALL LAURA ANYTIME AT4673.  QUET OF FLOWERS DELIVERED EACH WEDNESDAY FOR 4 WEEKS. (WE CAN 'BREAK" FOR XMAS BREAK OR WILL DELIVER IF YOUR LADY IS STAYING ON CAMPUS/ IN TOWN. WEDNESDAYS FLOWERS 289 1211. Haiiiii BeeeeiiiiHappy t91h, 341 stud! Women of N.D. unite I Make Bill Harp feel BEEG'for his birthday-kisses w111 be ac­cepted alit day. Hoo schker-dou .. She lost her SPARKLE you know she isn't the same. What a long strange trip it's been Ill Sktp, I know you'll do a hell at a JOb. You were a super assl.fassoc. rm not leavtng the country, just Tile Observer, so keep 1n touch. Ort1 Dave D. I knew from the start that you were gmng to fit mto this busmess pertectly (What a JUdge of talent!). Keep it up and keep in touch (T.W.S.S.I). ...... O.rt' Mooo, To hell with saying good bye to you. I livewrthyou...  PARTY ONLY THROATS STUDY WHEN THERE IS A K of C PARTY GOING ON ... PARTY tOt FINAL EXAM ...FRIDAY NIGHT AT THE KOFC Georgia BoundIll I need riders to Savaneh or Macon or AI· lanta or any potnl in between. Only gotng down, no nde back. Leave on Thursday night or Fnday. Let's go down south where we belong! Call Bill at x8683 (That's 12/17or t2/t8.) To all who abuse me on Monday mghts, Merry Chnstmas anyways (why am I such a lady?) Why don't you guys get a REAL relationship? Merry Chnstmas Annamane. Peggy. Katte and Mary Beth H. Hope you receive your heart·s des1re. And thanks tor the en­velopes Luv Suzanne Stephen, you're a terrlllc-Btg. Brother! Good luck on all your finals. Merry ChnS1mas too-see you 1n Mtchtgan luv, your Ill' SIS Oz-good luck on your ftnals. Have a fun and safe tnp home and a Merry Chrlatmu. What mght are you working <~ext semester? Luv, Suzanne  Tom, Keep your broken ornament to yourselflll Cheryl. why do you abuse me so? And who are you chas1ng wtth your camera now? ... ... ..... .. To the Dts-Augusta Mod Squad and gang (that's you Angela, Ten. Mac, Karen, Borch, Colleen, Kathy. Ellen. etc) ... Thanks for a great semester. I love and Will mtss you all, Jo Fran Pam, Suste, Anne What wtll the quad become wtlhout the fourth member? Jo To the DisGrace gods...(Carcass. Stetz. Doody. Neut. Bird. Rabs. Chas. Btll, Tim. etc) tis been an honor knowtng you guys. I'll mtss ya. Jo To everyone on the Gefll!ral Board. espe· ctally my lovely colleagues Mary Agnes. Cathy and of course Kelllssima. and TJ, Lynne and Mary Fan 1n absentta... You all have no idea how much I've enjoyed working wtth you. I've learned so much 1n thiS past semester, and though I'm gotng 'to be spendtng next semester with Di and Chuck, my thoughts will be wtth you. Keep up the super work! Tim l . ~ . smile t $.,._ '~ Colleen,AJ.!.lA'L..  - 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------~­
r 
The Observer-Sports 
t 

Kentucky forU'ard Derrick Hard (32) is one of the many star players the Irish will be facing on their Christmas road swing. ND faces Kentucky on Dec. 29 (AP Photo) 
continuedfrom page 20 
Already his season, the Wildcats have beaten handily Ohio State and Indiana. They still will be without the services of 7-1 center Sam Bowie, who has been sidelined with a fractured shin bone, but they have not seemed to miss his presence thus far. 
In Bowk's place, 6-3 guard Dirk 
Minnifidd has become the team 
leader. The junior was the team's co­
MVP last season, when he averaged 
just under II points a game. 
Minnifield has a strong corps to 
lead, as well. Ten lettermen have 
returned from last year's squad, 
including standouts Derrick Hord. a 
6-6 swingman, forwards Chuck Ver­derber and Charles Hurt, along with guards Dicky Deal and Jim Master. 
From Kentucky, the Irish travel to 
Kansas City. where they'll take on 
Missouri at Kemper Arena. 
Friday, December II, I98I -page I4 
• • • Death March 
It will be only the second time the 
two teams have met. The last time 
the Irish met the Tigers was in the 
NCAA tournament at Lincoln, Neb., 
in the spring of I9SO. Mizzou 
eliminated Notre Dame from the 
tournament that day with an 87-84 
overtime win. 
The Tigers return seven letter­men, with top players at each of the three positions. 6-5 forward Ricky .Frazkr averaged over 16 points per game last season, but he'll be chal­lenged by Mark Dressler, the 6-6 junior who singlehandedly dis­
mantled the Irish in Lincoln. Dres­sler missed the entire season last year with a knee injury, but is healthy now. and probably will start. 
Steve Stepanovich is the Tigers' big man on the boards. The 6-I I center averaged well over seven rebounds a game last year, and will be a force with which to contend un­derneath. 

Enter the 1982 
National Collegiate Oratory Competition 
Sponsored by 
THE THOMAS M. COOLEY LAW SCHOOL 
Write and deliver from memory a 1 0-minute original speech defending your position on one of these topics: 
• 
STRIKING PUBLIC EMPLOYEES: Banish them or bargain with them? 

• 
CASINO GAMBLING: Boost to the econ­omy or invitation to the underworld? 

• 
NUCLEAR POWER: A boon to mankind or a threat to our children? 

• 
USURY: Anachronism or extortion? 

• 
PORNOGRAPHY: Legitimate business or licentious blight? 


Speeches will be judged first in manuscript form, then in an oral audition, and finally before a live audience and a panel of Michigan court judges. 
One overall winner receives a full tuition schol­arship to the Thomas M. Cooley Law School. Two runners-up each receive half tuition scholar­ships, and three semi-finalists receive individual $1000 tuition grants. Total value of prizes ex­ceeds $20,000. 
To be eligible you must be an undergraduate student currently enrolled in an accredited four­year college or university. Deadline for manu­script entries is March 1, 1982. For information and competition rules, fill out the form below and send it in today. 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Please send me information and rules for the 1982 Thomas M. 
Cooley Law School National Collegiate Oratory Competition. 
I understand there are no entry fees or other financial ·obliga­
tions. 
Name ---------------------------------­
Address ____________________________________ City State _______ Zip ___ College or University ________________ 
Send to Oratory Competition, Thomas M. Cooley Law School, 
P.O. Box 13018, Lansing, Michigan 48901. 
-..:·.. 

L------------------------------------------------------------------------­
.. 
From Kansas City the Irish travel east for games with LaSalle in the Philadelphia Palestra and Virginia in Maryland's Capital Centre. 
LaSalle lost four starters from last season's squad, and will go with less­experienced players in a rebuilding attempt by Coach Lefty Ervin. 
7-1 center Tom Piotrowski b the block on which Ervin is building his team. The junior averaged just un­der eight points per game last season, and was a tough rebounder. He is the only returnee from last year's starting lineup that went 14­13. 
After the Monday night game in Philadelphia, Notre Dame will take on Virginia's Cavaliers in the second half of a home/neutral and home/neutral series. 
Last year's game was a classic, as Orlando Woolridge hit a 10-footer with time running out, and the Irish upset the unbeaten and top-ranked Cavaliers. 
The story ofthis team is, ofcourse, Ralph Sampson. The 7-4 center could be the best player in the col­lege game today. 
Gone are Jeff Lamp and Lee Raker, prime forces in the Cavaliers' Final Four entry of a year ago. But Othell Wilson, a 6-0 guard, and Jeff Jones, his 6-4 backcourt mate, arc coming into their own. Both men averaged over six points per game last year, despite the presence of Raker. 
The five-game trip winds up on the west coast, where the Irish take on one of the country's most un­derrated teams, the San Francisco Dons. Coach Pete Barry returns four starters, including Quintin Dailey, one of the nation's best guards. Dailey, who averages just under 23 points per game, teams in the back­
court  with  senior  captain  Ken  
McAlister, himself an  I I points per  
game scorer.  

Up front, the Dons are led by a couple of Gary, Ind., products. Wallace Bryant, a 7-0 center, is one of the top rebounders in the country, pulling in 10 per game. John Hegwood, like Bryant, a 16 point per game scorer, pulls down eight rebounds per contest himself. 
All in all, it will be a tough road for Notre Dame. As Phelps says, it is quite probably the toughest road trip of his career here. and could well be the toughest trip any team takes this season. 
NOW 
TO ••• 
O'HARE-MIDWAY 
SPECIAL 


6 
TRIPS 
DAILY 
Ask Your Travel Agent For The Big Bus To O'Hare 
Or Call 234-3108 
. Indiana Motor Bu$ 
flOW€RS anb (jJftS foR all occass1ons Com€ In anb BROWS€. 
~ 
~~co. 
327 tmcolnway 
The Observer ­ Sports  Friday, December 11, 1981  -page 1S  
Hawks, Gophers Can they stay unbeaten? Northwe~tern tonight. Tomorrow's net Cla.~sk at Houston Dec. 18-19.ByJOE MOOSHIL schedule, in addition to the Indiana Associated Press Alter that, the Hawkcyes take onand Illinois tournaments, finds  SURDAY MASSIIS A~ SAO:&IID HilA:&~ OHU:&OB -. Masses are for Sunday, Dec. 13, 1981 8:18 PM Saturday Rev. John VanWolvlear, O.S.O.  

Big Ten basketball teams. showing 
only a 24-14 edge against intcrsec· 
tiona! opponent~. swing into a 
strt·am of holiday tournaments 
bdi>rc opening the confercnc.e 
season Jan. 7. 
Indiana and Illinois start the 
tournament rush friday night. The 
I Oth-ranked Hooskrs host the In· 
diana Classic. and Illinois hosts the Illini Classic. 
Colorado State, Penn State and Southern Methodist will participate in the Indiana Classic while Texas A&M, Army and Oklahoma City have bn·n invited to tht· Illini Classic. 
Indiana and Illinois arc favored to win tht"ir rt·spective tourneys, thus taking the sting out of their n·cent losses to ranked teams. 
Indiana was hammered Tuesday night by No. 2 Kentucky 85-69, while Illinois wa~ dropping a 78-68 overtime decision to No. 13 Mis­souri. The losses were the first this season for both Indiana and Illinois. 
A number of other Big Ten tt"ams will be in action this weekend begin· ning with Chicago State at 
coltlinuedfmm page .!0 
all Amt·n can hy tht· Assodaled l'ress. 1-'nt/ed l'ren lnlernatilmal. 
the Amnic.tn Foot hall ( :oadlt"~ A~­~onation (Kodak). 7"/JI' .'fwrtin.~ .\ell"S, the \\"altn < amp hnmdation .tnd tht·/ uo/lwli.\1'/I'S. 
l'otdl"r.tc the olll) ''"ltt<Jr 011 till' 
ln~h olten~in· !tnt· thb ~ea~on. 
,t,trt,·d all I I gantt"' at rtghl tac·J..It­
k.nmm. a thrn··\Tar 'tartt·r in the 
lrhh .,,., ond;tn·. "a~ namnl to the 
"\( .AA lli~lrtc"l 1\ rh"atkmic All· 
Allll"l'l< a team. That autontalt<tlll· 
put' hirn on tiK n.ttional ballot. The 
n.uional ll"am \\ill he· announcnl 
lll"Xl WeeJ..l"lld. 
k. r1111 Ill madt· I Wll · I rip~ Ill the podium. I k ;tl~o n·,·dn:d thl ~d10lar athkt<" .tward from tht· Notn· Dame Cluh ol St. .Jo~cph \"al­
ky 
Tlw three Wl'fl" among the tlve ~t·ntor ~tarter~ on·r tht· last half of 
•ht· ~ea~on. no doubt a major factor in tht· ~dt·ction pron·s!>. l>densive tackk Kevin Griftlth and plat·c kil'k­t'r Ilarry Oliver wt·n· tht: <>ther two. l>d"en!->ivt· lineman Pat Kramer. tight t'tlll Dean ,\llasztak and split end Mike Bomhka. all seniors, were among the many to havt· thdr sea~ons cut short hy injuric!->. 
!loth Gritllth and Kramer still havt· a remaining year of digihility, and arc expected to remain at Notre Damt· li>r the 1982 st·a~on. 
(;rilllth abo was honored last night as tht· recipient of the John H. :'vlc'vlullt·n Award. presnHed annual· 
• • • Ted 
COIIIilllll'djinm fJtiK<' .!0 
ful that rn the )"l"ar~ alwad. ··Notre l>anll· might. hy l"Xamplt· and ll'ader­~hip. hdp to rid illlercolkgiall· ath· ktil"~ of till' plagut· that prt·sently blighh it." 
Ik abo hinted that :\otn· Damt· might di~t·ontinut· Mtdt long~taml­ing rivalrit-~ a~ \tiami ( Ha.) and Southt·rn Cal in li>otball and liCLA. '>an Franl"i~co and Kt·ntucky in ba~­kt·thall. All have been on s<;mc sort of dbdplinary probation in rt-cent year~. "\\"c should t·ompt·tc with ~dtoob that share this idt·al." he 
~aid, ""and not with tho~t· who do not." 
Drake and then journey to South
Northt"rn Iowa at Iowa, Cincinnati at Carolina before mee::ting Purdue:: in
Michigan State, Ball State at Wiscon­the:: Big Ten ope::ncr Jan. 7.
sin, Michigan at Western Michigan. Ohio State at West Virginia and Minne::sota might find it toughe::r to 
Purdue at Oklahoma. start the Big Ten race:: with a perfect 
Currently, only No. 6 Iowa and re::cord. The Gophe::rs play at Mar­
No. 8 Minnesota arc undefeated, and quett.: Dec. I';) and at Kansa~ State 
the Hawkcyes could well take a per· Dec. 21 before hosting tht"ir own 
feet record into the conference race tournament Dec. 28-29 against 
if they can get through the Blucbon-Arizona, Army and Montana State. 
Yanks attempt to re-sign Guidry 
HOLLYWOOD, Fla. (AP) -The Ne::w York ~·here he haS been the:: ace 
Ron Guidry signing swecpstakes en· of the staffsince:: 1977. 
tered its final stage::s at baseball's Stt:inbrenner was locked in 
winter mce::tings ye::ste::rday as John Ame::rican League meetings early 
Schneider, attorney for thc free yesterday and he and Schneider 
age::nt lefthande::r, prepared to meet wcrc to sit down in late aftcrnoon to with New York Yankee owner discuss thc Guidry situation. George Steinbrenner. Guidry has said he:: would prcfcr to 
"My gut reaction is we can work stay with Ne::w York. But Schneide::r's 
something out with the:: Yankees," asking prkc of S7. 5 million for tlve 
Schneider said, indicating that the years is more:: than Steinbrcnne::r 
nitchcr mav be prepared to stay in wants to spend for the:: pitcher. 
Awards 
ly to till" player who best cxcmplitks pktt· list of each. by class, appear~ in the spirit ofthc st:holar-athktt·. con· · Sportsboard. trihuting hi:\ skill and ability on the \\"hen recognizing the nHHlogram lkld and in the classroom. Grift1th recipient~. Coach Ccrry faust rnad­joined Krimm on the Di~trict 1\ n-rtantly left out ~t·nior~ Dan· Con· academic tt·am. deni .md lkrnie Adell. Afin 
Abo recognizcd last night \\TH" lwcoming awart· of the O\Trsight. the 'i"'i motu>gram wintHT~ and I 2 lht· cntharrassnl coach qukJ..Iy ··~ervin· award"" \\inner~ :\ n>m· ap..lugtt.cJ to hoth pbyt-r.,. 

9:00 AM Sunday  Rev. Richard Conyers, C.S.C.  
10:80 AM Sunday  li.ev. Peter D. Rocca, C.S.C.  
11:18 PM Sunday  ··;;~av. Austin Fleming  
'1:18 PM Vespers  .ttev. Peter !). Rocca, O.S.O.  

,............................. 
:. .nli<:~~-.:
• ~-> • 
• ,. •.• JU~IOI< 1~\l\E~TS' \\rEEKEND •
.
• ~ •
• Attentiol'l Ju11iors • 
• if you did not recieve the first JPW • : maili11g at home, you can pick one •
•
: up in the stude11t activities office • : first floor LaFortune :
• 
• 
• 
~--------------------------~ 
BRINC IN THIS COUPON AND SAVE I 
I I I
50% 0FF I 
I 

ES I 
I 

For a limited time only, bnng in this coupon and save 50% on all high fashion, high quality frames. Including tl1ose bv Oleg casinni, Christian Dior. Pierre cardin, Gloria vanderbilt. etc. This coupon must be presented at time glasses are ordered and no other discounts are applicable. 
IServiceDP.ticall 
The Eyewear Experts concord Mall 875-7472 scottsdale Mall, South Bend 291·2222 Offices throughout Indiana 

Sunday, Dec. 1.3 7:30PM NOTRE DAME A.C.C 

TICKETS ON SALE NOW!!! 
$10.50/9.50 Reserved 

Available at th ~ Box Office, 
1st Source Bank, Main Office, 
St. Joseph's Bank, Elkhart Truth, 
Robertson 's--South Bend & Elkhart.

The Observer -Sports Friday, December 11, 1981 -page 16 
Brawls abound 
-~~-.xae;-~~-I.Z>I!IU.. 
leers lose to N. Mich., refs 
By RICK CHRYST The bulk of the penalties carne in one goal in that time period.
WIN1~~ !~~~~~~o:Y~i1~ '821 
and CHRIS NEEDLES the second period, which was high­But that one goal, by UNM's Bill Sports Writers lighted by a five-minute-long fight Schathauser. proved to be the back­between Notre Dame'sJohn Higgins breaker. It came with only I 0 
All week: 
I8 
and UNM's)effTascoff. Both players seconds remaining in the second were ejected from the game at the period, the Wildcats' third goal of
Snow Football I 
-.\1ARQUETTE, Mich. -As if the
8 11:38 mark, but Higgins was given the wild stanza, and put the Irish be­
Coed teams of 6 !'Jotre Dame hockey team didn't 
the greater amount of penalties. The hind 3-1 after two periods. UNM 
have enough to worry about in 
JUnior right winger received l7 tallied two goals in the first 2:26 of 
facing second-place Northern Mich­
january 14: . minutes of pcnalties for high stick­tht.· period, before any of the
1
igan here last night, the: Irish also had 
ing, intent to injure:, tlghting and fireworks t:rupted, with SchathauserTubing at Bendix I to overcome some shoddy "homer" grabbing the face ma~k. while Tas­dnd Dave :vtogu~h lighting the lamp. 
~ oftkiating.
No charge, coff reccivcd only the maJor for l'or .\1ogush. it was his lt:ague­
lt proved to be: too much of a bur­
. tighting. lcading 22ntl goal <iftht• sea!>on . 
transportationprovided 
. den. ;\l'otre Dame battlcd hard, 
But the oustcrs wen: not over by Freshman Brent Chapman scored despite losing three players to dis­
any means. With 26 seconds l<:ft in ti)r the Irish with 7: 12 lt:ft in the qualitkation and killing off I I out of
Sign up now with the the middle pcriod, Notre Daml·'s game. after ND finally had regained
l 2 shorthanded situations. but
.I 
John Schmidt was pinned to the icc full strength. to make it 3-2. But. lo
Student Union . 
dropped a 3-2 decision to Northern 
by the Wildcat!;. Charlie Lundeen, and behold, just as the Irish were Michigan in a penalty-filled contcst · 
who wouldn't let the Irish dcten­about to make their final push. ND bcfore 2.3SH at Lakeview Arena. 
Deadline is Dec. 14 
scman get to his feet. A~ so often hap· dcfenseman Rob Ricci was nabbed pcns, the referee saw only the for slashing to end the thrcal.
How bad was the officiating? "\\'e
' Any questions, 
retaliation, which was unfortunate But the clincher. the one bad call 
wcre deeply concerned when we 
for Schmidt. that especially set Smith on fire, was
l 
contact Steve 7757 or 1748 
joined the CCHA," said an-infuriated 
Out of frustration, Schmidt the disqualification of Bill Rothstein
Notre Dame Coach Lefty Smith.
~.)l~R-,~-~Qa(~> 
stepped on Lundeen, and was with S3 seconds left for spearing,
"about their officia_ting stanJards. 
ejected immediately and given a Notre Dame's third di!.missal of the
They were suspect in the fact that 
fivc-minute major penalty for kick­evening. As a result, all three players
they often use local referees.
r------~c:-~1-eTs-------, -Higgins. Schmidt and Rorhstein
ing. "Tonight, we had a local man (the In all, the Irish were shorthanded -must sit out tonight's rematch. head referee was a Marquette rt•si­for an incrediblc 17:03 !>traight in Smith was well awan: that his 
the second and third periods, but post-game tirade might not sit well
1928 NORTH EDDY STREET 
dent), and he was extremely incom­the Wildcats were able to score onlv with CCHA officials. "I know I'm not
petent." supposed to say these type of
I 234-4959 
things," Smith said. "But there comes a time when somethinghas to
TAKE A STUDY BREAK Off-Campus XMas Break 
be said -the officiating was incom­petent." Unlike the referees, the goalten­
HAPPY HOUR--4-7 PM Storage in Stepan Center 
ders sparkled in the heated contest. Notre Dame's Dave Laurion tallied
MIXED DRINKS & DRAFTS Dec. 14, IS, 16 2-4 pm 
37 saves, including all 20 of UNM's shots in the third period. TheTWO FOR THE PRICE OF ONE The Unioersity will not be liable for Wildcats' Bruno Campese stopped 24 Irish shots in upping his un­
property stored. blemished record to 8-0-0.AFTER 6 PM TRY OUR Despite the defeat and the recur­ring nemesis of a brt~akdown in the
Ofbt 6bvuuje ~ availohee iH yoa~t owa
HOMEMADE PAN PIZZA second period, Smith was pleased with the effort. "I have to say," he
• ~-Cafl a Keiglduvt" fb fb n.e.
BRING IN THIS AD commented, "that I've never been Meilj~ A33oeiallmt. prouder ofa group ofguys than I was.50 OFF ANY PIZZA ofour team tonight." The same, it is certain, was not
'Dtm't ~oJtget u,. &ek up hehOJte ~. 
said ofthe refs.
FREE DELIVERY 
o.c. C4HUttiMi4K 
IRISH JCERS: Rothstein scored Notre Dame's first goal at 6:18 ofthe middle period, tipping in a slap shot byJim-Brown to close the Irish with­
~DAILY LUNCHEON SPEC/Ad I SOUP AND SANDWICH $2.00 I 
against NO . . . The same two teams go at -it again tonight at t:I:UO. 
~-------------------------~ 

Someold-fashioned reasons to spend the holidaysat our house. 
. ' 
Special Holiday Events This Week 
.,., Fri., Dec. 11 
through Fri., Dec. 24 
Wassail Bowl in the Grand Hall. Join us in a toast to a happy and healthy holiday season. Free to the public. 
._., Sat., Dec. 12 10 a.m.-1 p.m. Muscular Dystrophy Charity Tour and Awards Presentation. $2 ticket. Coffee and cake. Informal modeling . from Hudson's. Florist demonstra­tions in various rooms. 
•·'Tues., Dec. 15, 1-3 p.m. Chef Ray Bertschy demonstrates how to prepare an old-fashioned Christmas dinner. Recipes will be: given. Class is free. but limited to I5. Sign up now. 

Need a gift iJea? Give a gift certif­icate from Tippecanoe. 
Be sure to look for this ad announcing 
•·tMarvel 
at old-fashioned deco­pecanoe Place to the Marines' Toys for our weekly events of the season. rations from our special house decorat­Tots program. ing contest. 

•~·See our fabulous Christmas tree in the Grand Hall beautifully decorated 


•···
See a spectacular gingerbread house 



by community groups. 
created.by Chef Ray. So start a new tradition for your 
....Help us make this Christmas spe­
family this season. Come home to Tippe­

cial for everyone by contributing at Tip-620 W. Washington, South Bend, 234-9077 ~~' Ccmtint'ntal ~t'stcwrall! Syslt'mS, 19M I canoe Place for the holidays. Reservations available. 
--~~----~--· 
The Observer Friday, December I l, l 98I -page I 7 .. 
• 
THIS PRICE ISWORTH A CLOSE EXAMINATION. All by itself, $49 is a great price of a complete pair of glasses. With Nu­Vision behind it, it's even better, because NuVision gives you so much more than just a pair of glasses. Examine these facts, and you'll see what we mean: At NuVision, when we say "complete," we mean your choice of single vision, bifocal, or trifocal clear glass lenses. Whichever ones you need will be prepared for you in NuVi­sion's own precision laboratory under strict quality controls. Then, when your glasses are ready, they will be checked again for ac­one more reason you can approach our $49 curacy by one ofN u Vision's trained price with confidence. $49 for a complete pair personnel. of glasses. There's a lot behind it. Look into it. As for the frames ­we offer a wide, And that's not all. Right now ... select group, not just a choice ·of one or two. These are the latest in fashion frames, with styles for every member of the family. I$35 E~~s~~:r CONTACT I N u Vision care and service have been outstanding for a long time, which is why so It's for a limited time only, so if you prefer many thousands of people come to us for Contact Lenses, don't delay. These are glasses. They know that, wherever they have Bausch & Lomb, don't delay. These are their eyes examined, their prescription Bausch & Lomb Spherical Soft Contact belongs to them to have filled wherever they Lenses, and the price includes NuVision's In­think best. And they think N u Vision is best. troductory Care Kit and 30-day' Trial Wear­At NuVision, we are dedicated to quali­ing Plan with Money-Back Guarantee. ty eye care. Whatever you buy from us For outstanding eye care ... $49 for comes with a money-back guarantee, which is eyeglasses ... and $35 contact lenses.... 324-3123 256-1864 919 Bendix Dr. McKinley Town & Country MishawakaSouth Bend 277-2281 936-5012 University Commons Plymouth Center South Bend Plymouth TRUST YOUR EYES TO YouCan ~~ Charqelt ~~  

f 
Sports Special -Football Final Friday, December 1 1, 1981 -page 18 
~ 
Footbal11981 -The Final Chapter 
t 
~.....-----.-----------­
• ~ 
Final Irish statistics 
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP 
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS  3609  3228  
Total Plays  743  750  
Yards per Pia y  4.9  43  
Yards per Game  328.1  293.5  
PENALTIES-YARDS  59-584  51-473  
FUMBLES-LOST  18-6  25.-10  
Yards Returned  0  0  
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS  177  162  
By Rushing  96  100  
By Passing  71  48  
By Penalty  10  14  
THIRD DOWNS-CONV  158-46  176-43  
Percentage  .291  .244  
POSSESSION TIME  333:46  326:14  
M1nutes per Game  30:21  29:39  

RUSHING G NO YDS AVG TO LG 
Carter  10  165  727  4.4  6 43  
Bell  11  92  512  5.6  4 41  
Sweeney  10  36  168  4.7  0  13  
Smith  7  41  161  3.9  1 22  
Brooks  9  24  126  5.2  22  
Monarty  10  20  94  4.7  18  
Mosley  9  16  75  4.7  18  
Hunter  11  27  68  2.5  13  
Kiel  11  31  53  1.7  31·  
Adell  6  10  24  2.4  0  8  
Swoboda  2  4  21  5.2  0  12  
Morns  1  3  20  6.7  0  10  
Hilbert  2  2  12  6.0  0  8  
Williamson  3  1  6  60  0  6  
Howard  10  5  4  0.8  1 13  
Grooms  2  1  0  0.0  0  0  
Koegel  10  14  -66  -4.7  0  7  

NOTRE DAME  11  492 2005  4.1 17 43  
OPPONENTS  11  507 1829  3.6 12 39.  
RECEIVING  G  NO YDS AVG TO LG  

Hunter  11  28  387 13.8  2  35  
Howard  10  17  463 27.2  3  96  
Carter  10  14  57  4.1 0  14  
Masztak  6  13  163 12.5  1  33  
Bell  11  11  135 12.3  0  24  
Sweeney  10  9  124 13.8  1  38  
Mosley  9  7  79 11.3  15  
Condem  3  4  49  12.2  1  21  
Boushka  5  3  52  17.3  0  25  
Monarty  10  3  '30  10.0  2  20  
Brooks  9  3  20  6.7 0  11  
Adell  6  2  12  6.0 0  10  
Buchanan  9  2  10  5.0 0  6  
K1el  11  2  -2  -1.0  0  1  
M1shler  7  1  25 .25.0  0  25  
Tnpp  4  10  10.0  1  10  

NOTRE DAME  11  1201614  13.4 12  96  
OPPONENTS  11  114 1399  12.3  8  71  
INTRET  NO YDS AVG TO LG  

Duerson  2  88 44.0  1 88  
Crable  2  60  30.0  0 33  
Zavagmn  3  27  9.0  0 27  
Knmm  2  26  13.0  0  15  
Toran  2  3  1.5  0  3  
Brown  0  00  0  0  
Johnson  0  0.0  0  0  

NOTRE DAME 13 204 15.7 1 88 OPPONENTS 15 75 5.0 0 29 
Each week. The Observer sports staff has matched w1ts w1th the nation s handicappers. These wJII be the final p1cks of the season. Records listed are results aga1nst the spread. 
ROSE BOWL Iowa over Washington by 4 COTTON BOWL Alabama over Texas by 2 SUGAR BOWL Pittsburgh over Georgia by 2 ORANGE BOWL Nebraska over Clemson by 4 FIESTA BOWL Southern Cal over Penn State by 2 GATOR BOWL North Carolina over Arkansas by 4 LIBERTY BOWL Ohio State over Navy by 1 0 BLUE BONNET BOWL Michigan over UCLA by 3 HALL OF FAME BOWL Mlsssisslpi Stover Kansas by 8 HOLlO A Y BOWL Brigham Young over Washington by 1 
PASSING G NO CO PCT INT YDS TO 
K1el  11 151  67  .444  10  936  7  
Koegel  10  92  50  .543  4  686  5  
Condeni  3  1  1 1 000  0  4  0  
Bell  11  1  1 1.000  0  1  0  
Grooms  2  3  0  .000  0  0  0  
Hunter  11  0  000  1  0  0  
Howard  10  0  .000  0  0  0  
Mosley  9  1 1 000  0  -3  0  

NO  11 251  120 .478  151624 12  
OPP  11 243 114  .469  1 3 1 399  8  
DEFENSE  TMTL-YDS PBU FR BK  


Murphy 0-0 0 0 0 Rice 
0-0 0 0 0 Flood 0-0 0 0 0 
SCORING GTD PA R·PA S FG TP 
Monogram winners
Mosley 0-0 0 0 0 
Crable Zavagnm Gnffith Clasby Duerson Toran Marshall Knmm Bone Rudz1nsk1 Autry Belden 
Naylor Johnson Gramke Brown Gann Bock Larkin Shields 
M. Golic 
167 94 63 56 
55 
54 44 38 36 35 30 27 26 22 21 15 12 
11 
10 
6 
6 
16-54 6-21 6-23 4-14 3-8 2-9 9-39 0-0 0-0 2-13 3-30 6-36 
0-0 
0-0 2-13 
0-0 0-0 0-0 
1-15 
0-0 0-0 
3 
4 5 2 5 4 0 7 1 0 2 0 
0 
2 1 2 0 0 0 0 
0 
2 
0 3 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 
0 
2 0 0 0 0 1 0 
0 
0 
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
0 
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
0 
Monarty 5 0-0 0 0 0 
Kramer 5 1-2 0 0 0 After a No. 3 preseason ranking, Notre Dame M. Carter 5 3-29 0 0 0 
dropped a notch after Alabama opened the 1981 
Masmi 5 0-0 0 0 0 
1 0 0 campaign with a win over Louisiana State. The follow­
Cichy 4 0-0 
SchirO 3 0-0 1 0 1 ing week, the Irish took their turn against LSU and Lie ben stein 3 0-0 0 0 0 dropped the Tigers to 0-2. That win, coupled with Adell 2 0-0 0 0 0 
tosses by top-ranked Michigan (at Wisconsin) and 
Kiernan 2 1-2 0 0 0 
No.2 Alabama (against Georgia· Tech) and a lack/us­
Sp1elmaker 2 0-0 0 0 0 
ter performance by third-ranked Oklahoma against Wyoming, propelled the Irish into the top spot. Notre Dame's loss at Michigan in Week 3 quickly pushed Gerry Faust's team downward (to 13th), and the one­point loss at Purdue the following week removed the Irish from the Top 20 for good. 
Pozderac 0-0 0 0 0 
Oliver 11 0 28-30 0-0 0 6-13 46 
The following is a list of Notre Dame football
Carter 10 6 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 36 
players who received varsity monograms at fast
NOTRE DAME 869 65-308 40 10 
Bell 11 5 Q-0 0-0 0 0-0 30 
night's awards dinner. Hometowns are in paren­
OPPONENTS 813 46-196 29 6 
Howard 10 4 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 24 
theses. A minimum of 30 minutes of varsity playing 
Monarty 10 3 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 18 
time during the 1981 season was the sole criterion, 
PUNT RET NO YDS AVG TO LG 
Hunter 11 3 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 18 
except lor certain specialty team players. 
Mosley 9 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12
Duerson 32 221 6.9 0 23 
Seniors
Masztak 6 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6
Knmm 5 5.0 0 5 
Bern1e Adell (IpSWICh, Mass.), Tony Belden
Kiel 11 1 0-0 0-1 0 0-0 6
Sp1elmaker 4 4.0 0 4 
(Crystal, M1nn.), Tom Bock (Hickory H1lls. Ill.), M1ke
Condeni 3 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 
Boushka (Wichita, Kan.), Steve Cichy (Fargo, N.D.). 
Smith 7 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 
Dave Condeni (Cincinnati, OhiO), Bob Crable
NOTRE DAME 34 230 6.8 0 23 
Tnpp 4 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 
(Cinconnat1, Oh1o), Joe Gramke (CJncJnnato, Oh1o).
OPPONENTS 36 213 5.9 0 38 
Kevin Griffith (Kettering, OhiO), Larry K1ssner (Delray Sweeney 10 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 
Brooks 9 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 
Beach. Fla.), Tim Koegel (Cincinnati, Ohio), Pat Kramer (Colton, Wash.), John Knmm (Columbus.
Duerson 11 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6
KICKOFF RET NO YDS AVG TO LG 
Ohio), Dean Masztak (Toledo, Oh1o), Ron MIShler (Metamora, Ill.), Harry Oliver (C1nc1nnat1, Oh1o), Phil 
NO 11 31 28-30 0-1 0 6-13232 
Pozderac (Garfield Heights. OhiO), John A1ce
Bell 13 371 28.5 1 98 
OPP 11 2014-15 1-5 0 8-14160 
(C t uyahoga Falls. Oh1o)
Howard 6 162 27.0 0 56 JuniorsDuerson 3 75 25.0 0 36 
PUNTING G NO YDS AVG LG 
Rod Bone (Las Cruces. N.M.). Pete Buchanan 
Johnson 26 26.0 0 26 
(Plymouth, Ind.), Phil Caner (Tacoma. Wash.), Bob Sweeney 1 22 22.0 0 22 K1el 11 73 2914 39 9 56 
Clasby (Milton, Mass.), Dave Duerson (Munc1e , Knmm 2 4 2.0 0 3 Whelan 2 1 44 44.0 44 
Ind.). Randy Elhs (Pearland. Tex.), Mark F1scher (Massillon. Ohio). Tony Hunter (CinCinnati, Ohio), M1ke Johnston (Rochester. NY.), Ne1l Maune
NOTRE DAME 26 660 25.4 1 98 NOTRE DAME 11 74 2958 40.0 56 
(Marthasville, Mo ), Larry Monany (Santa Barbara,
OPPONENTS 32 627 19.6 0 51 OPPONENTS 11 84 3329 39.6 60 
Calif.). John Putzstuck (Arvada. Col.), Joe Rudz1nsk1 

MIKE OLENIK CHRIS NEEDLES SKIP DESJARDIN GARY GRASSEY BILL MARQUARD KELLY SULLIVAN Sports Wnter Sports Wnter Assoc. Sports Ed1tor Sports Wnter Sports Wnter SportsWnter 85-69-4 .551 84-70-4 544 83-70-4..538 82-72-4 532 79-75-4.513 77-77-4.500 
Husk1es Hawks Hawks 
Hawks Hawks Hawks T1de T1de Horns T1de T1de Panthers Panthers Dawgs Dawgs Dawgs Dawgs 
T1gers Huskers Huskers Huskers T1gers Huskers Trojans L1ons Lions L1ons Heels Hogs Heels Heels Heels Heels 
Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes· Wolvennes Wolvennes Wolvennes Wolvennes BrUinS Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs. Bulldogs WS.U W.SU. B. YU B. Y U B.YU BY U Wolvennes 
(Farmington. M1ch.), Jack Shields (Duxbury. Mass.). M1ke Sh1ner (Sunnyvale, Calif.), John Sweeney (Deerfield. Ill.). Tom Thayer (Joliet, Ill.), Mark Zavag­mn (Evergreen Park. Ill.). 
Sophomores 
Jon Autry (Fort Wayne, Ind.), Greg Bell (Columbus, Ohio), Chns Brown (Owensboro. Ky.).Clansel Caner (East St. LoUis. Ill.). Mike Kelley (WastfJeld, Mass.). Blair K1el (Columbus. Ind.), Tim Marshall (Ch1cago, Ill.), John Mosley (West Des Mo1nes. Iowa), Rick 
Naylor  (CinCinnati,  Oh1o).  Stacey  Toran  
(Indianapolis, Ind.).  
Freshmen  
Joe  Bars  (Farm1ngton.  M1ch.),  Mark  Brooks  

(Cincinnati, Oh1o). Mike Gann (Lakewood. Col.), M1ke Golic (Willowick,_ Ohio), Joe Howard (Clinton, Md.), Joe Johnson (Fostona, Ohio), Kev1n Kelly (South Bend. Ind.), M1ke Lark1n (C1nc1nnati, Oh1o), Chris Sm1th (C1nc1nnati, Oh1o). 
Service Awards 
Tom Burger (Cincinnati, Ohio). Parvez Chand (South Bend, Ind.), John Flood (Tulsa. Okla.). Steve Hilbert (Colorado Spnngs. Col.). KeJth Marrero (New Orleans. La.). M1ke Mas1n1(St. Joseph's, M1ch.), John Murphy (Grand Rapids, M1ch.), Don Pawelski (Evergreen Park. Ill.), Bnan Whelan (Savanah. Ga.), Greg Williamson (Langhorne. Pa.), Dan Stone (Seattle, Wash.), Dave Swoboda (Birm1ngham, 
M1ch.) 

MICHAEL ORTMAN MARK HANNUKSELA Sports Editor Sports Wnter 75-79-4 . .487 71-83-4 .462 
Hawks Hawks 
Tode T1de 
Dawgs Panthers 
Huskers Huskers Trojans Trojans Hogs Hogs Buckeyes Buckeyes 
Wolvennes Bruons 
Bulldogs Bulldogs 
wsu. BY U 


-----·--------::
---~------~ 
The Observer 
Friday, December 11, 1981 -page 19
Weekend 
r~.,....,..~....,............................~...........,..,.~ ...............~~·...,.. .........~~·...........-.~...........~......................." 
~ Tonight is the JL!l~~ ~il~rn I 
i**************Jtii;;~ii;;~**~~ii;;;§*ffi· 
enior Bar will be open for the ~ ~r\ll,I<LA,-"-1(,111 ~WI~~ ~Alii":: '-til"-( ~1-~11"-Ju~.1u;1(JS1 :
semester--~ 
Bus departs main circle 5 pm. ,!
Thanks for your patronage.~ 
\ Returns 11 pm ! tonight's special--~ presale bus tix: $2.50 At circle: $3! all types of Schnapps! ~ 
Plus: reduced: lift tickets ...... ~5 !* 
open 9:30-2:00 l **** lessons .......... S1 * 
:.u.&A·-Y:.a: .i.l :Ul:.a::.u:.u:r ..c:.u:.u:L~ ~l~ .i.l~ jj rental ............ $4 .:: 
~~~""""""~""""""""""""~..-~~-·...,.. ................__..__,..,....................-.~~..,.. ........~-·---· 
********************************** ~ 
Molarity Michael Molinelli 


llf>L-P Ht= 5AV£ Ht3 1f 
1>DN'r LE r 71/GH mKe f(,;' II fl.cASI:,..0!-1 PJ.EA?c PITY HIF: ... 1-{~1.£' 
HEJ~C'{ ••, J.JO, ,. ful\l'r 



Swamp llrats 
Simon )eb Cashin 

ACROSS 1 Opposed 
to long. 4 Bistro 8 More of 53D 
The Daily Crossword 
14 Fuss 15 Parched 16 Genesis 
peak 
as a book 19 Hardships 20 Oil country 
Buffalo 
coin 23 Feats 25 Printer's 
word 26 Kazan 30 Do sums 31 Friend Francois 

©1981 by Chicago Tribune·N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Thursday's Solution party dramatist 
4 Flying org. Ben 

5 Opp. of dep. 49 Boxing's 6 Demonic Dundee 7 Fisher 50 Removed 
or Foy the unde· 8 Shade sirables 9 New York 53 Profundity 
canal 55 Branco or 10 All·obser· Bravo vant 57 Ancient 11 Con's Iranian counter 59 Gullet 12 Aural 60 Honor process card 
13 Football 61 650 linemen: 63 "-Bias" abbr. 64-de plume 
Campus 
Friday, Dec. 11 
•1 
0 a.m.-4 p.m. -Christmas Sale, hand-crafted pottery by ND art graduate students, O'Shaughnessy Great Hall, all are welcome 

•10 
a.m.-10 p.m. -Christmas Sale, arts and crafts benefiting Sr. Marita's Primary Day School, Memorial Library Concourse, all arc welcome 

•I2: 
1'i p.m. -Meeting, Italian Club, All Italian· speaking professors from ND/SMC invited, Faculty Dining Room 

•4-'i 
p.m. -Spanish Club Tertulia, south alcove on main tloor, LaFortune, Venga para hablar con nosotros y practicar cl artc de conversar! 

•7. 
9, 1 1 p.m. -FUm, "Nine to Five", Engineering Auditorium, sponsored by Student Union, SI ad· mission 

•8: 
1'i p.m. -Concert, ND Glee.: Club, Washing· 


ton Hall, admission free Saturday, Dec. 12 
•I 
:30 p.m. -Basketball, ND Men vs. Northern Illinois, ACC 

•4 
p.m. -Basketball, ND Women vs. Northern Illinois, ACC 

•7 
p.m. -FUm, "My Way", Memorial Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Chinese Association 

•7, 
9, II p.m.-Film, "Nine to Five", Engineering 


Auditorium, Sl admission Sunday, Dec. 13 
•2 
p.m. -Mass, Community with mentally retarded, Moreau Seminary, all are welcome 

•2·5 
p.m. -Meeting, Ladies of Notre Dame Children's Holiday Party, Saint Mary's Club House 

•7:30 
p.m. -Concert, Foreigner, ACC, $10.50 and 59.50 


Television Tonight 
Friday, December 11 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. IO:OOp.m. 
ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
16 MASH 22 CBS News 28 Joker's Wild 34 The: MacNeil/Lehrer Report 46 In Touch 16 All in the Family 22 Family Feud 28 Ti<:Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 16 NBC Magazine 22 Dukes of Hazzard 28 Benson 34 Washington Week In Review 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 28 Bosom Buddks 34 Wall Street Week 46 The Renewed Mind 16 Md.ain's Law 22 Dallas 28 Darkroom 
34 Enterprise 46 Today With Lester Sumrall 34 Ben Wattenhng 16 The: Devlin Connn·tion 22 A Tribute 10 M.r. Television: Milton 
Beric 28 Strike Foree 34 firing Line 46 Jimmy Swaggan Weekly 16 NcwsCenter 16 22 22 Eyl·witness News 28 Nc:wswat<:h 2H 34 The Dick Cavett Show 46 PraiSl' the Lord 16 Tonight Show 22 Behind Thl' Screen 28 ABC News Nightlinc 34 Captioned ABC News 
.... 
• 
... 
35 Strike water 37 Lofty abode: var. 38 Richard's epithet 41 Friend Francisco 43 Group of 
three 44 Procedure 47 Blemish 48 Mandible 51 Sommer 52 Zilch to 
Zorro 
54 Apian quean's mate 
56 Talisman 
59 Worse than Allee's hatter 
62 Short of 
snout 65 Give in 66 Relative 
of43A 67 Chihuahua 
cheer 68 United 69 Tiller 70 Sleep 
land 
DOWN 1 Foppish 2 Worshiped 3 Dressed for 
"Animal House" 
of films 24 Honky·tonk 27 Tallow 28 Amin 29 Affirmative 
vote 32 Homo 
sapiens 34 Slow up 35 Willful 36 All-up 38 A-and a 
promise 39 Framework 40 Inlet 41 Consumed 42 Brooksor 
Blanc 45 Accustomed 46 Coolidge 48 English 
Friday, December 11, 1981 -page 20
~orts

In college sports 
Hesburgh addresses ethics 
reasonable security in their jobs, andcapable of raking large sums of
By MICHAEL ORTMAN 
the full confidence and support ofmoney into university coffers. But it 
Sports Editor 
the administration. Alumni should 
Notre Dame President Theodore according to Hesburgh, to ease that not badger them, nor should the vociferous fans. 
is the job ofthe university president, 
pressure first by placing athletics in "Of course. they will suffer a cer­
M. Hesburgh called on his fellow 
their proper perspective, and then tain amount ofstatic from those who
university administrators around 
supporting their athletic programs judge anything less than total vic­
the nation to take charge in cleaning 
through thick and thin. tory as a dismal failure. But the
up collegiate athletics. Hesburgh, 
"A president must ... not yell at the players," he said, "as a harried 
not known for becoming involved in 
pressures should not come from the
the athletic forum, spoke at last 
administration. (Coaches) have a
coach was said to have done, 'What difficult enough task, and if they are 
night's Notre Dame football banquet 
do you think it is, a game?' It is ain the ACC. 
doing it with honesty, integrity and
"It is difficult to keep up with the game. No more. No less. schools that are on disciplinary Then, in what can be construed as competence, they should never have to be worried about being
a major vote ofconfidence for Gerry blind-sided by those who appointed
probation," Hesburgh admonished. 
Faust and Notre Dame coaches in all them."
"Allegations of cheating, rules viola­
sports, Hesburgh asserted, "It is in­Of his own university, often
tion, improper recruitment, 
secure coaches who cut corners. regarded as the leader in collegiate 
academic improprities in admis­
Their position and tenure should athletic ethics, Hesburgh was hope­
sions and in receiving credit without 
not be at the mercy of last week's score or the vagaries of a single attending class -all ofthese are fair­
ly widespread." 
See TED, page 15 Addressing athletics is something 
season. They should have foreign to Hesburgh. Throughout his tenure as university president he has referred virtually all athletic matters to the executive vice presi­
Grooms to leave ND ; 
dent, Fr. Edmund P. Joyce. But Hes­burgh acknowledged at the outset that he was "filling in" for Joyce who 
will coaches follow ? 
is touring mainland China. Hesburgh recognized the fact that ing others. Several reports indicate
coaches are under tremendous
by Cheryl Ertelt) 
By KELLY SULLIVAN that administrative assistant Joe
==============-=======::-::::--·-··..........:=-=======~e::r:;~;::ss::u=r=e=to p_r_(>.~uce winning teams 
Sports Writer Yonto, the defensive line coach for 1 7 seasons before taking a desk job
Five-game odyssey 
The 1981 football season officially last spring, may in fact return to the ended with last night's awards din­field. ner, but talk concerning the return One of Faust's players, however, of coaches and players in 1982 has definitely will not return to the field
Irish travel coast-to-coast 
already begun. in a Notre Dame uniform. Reserve 
By SKIP DESJARDIN "There are a lot of problems with "Northern is a very deceptive bas­Though he emphasized that quarterback Scott Grooms is the team right now," Phelps admits. ketball team," Phelps said at his rumors about the firing of any of his transfering to Miami (Ohio) Univer­
Associate Sports Editor 
"But we are making improvements press conference yesterday. "They coaches are premature, Gerry Faust sity beginning the spring semester While most Notre Dame students play very well. They've got good
anyway. Every game we get a little will not deny the possibility that this year. 
are relaxing over Christmas break, better in some areas. We've got to size, and I like the things they do. We changes may take place among his Grooms, a sophomore out of improve a lot in a number ofareas if are concerned about Saturday's staff in the near future. The implica­Greenfield, Ohio. will be allowed to
the Notre Dame basketball team will 
we want to succeed over the next tion that shake-ups might occur has practice during spring drills at the
be in the middle of a grueling road game. We are having trouble against 
been printed in several newspapers Oxford, Ohio, campus, though he'lltrip that will spell the difference be­month. big teams. 
"Most of all, we have to t keep up "Northern is patient, as well. We recently; however, Faust insists that have to sit out the 1982 fall cam­
tween a successful season and a dis­aster. our intensity. Mental mistakes are have to control the game tempo and no decisions have been made as of paign. A concensus prep All­"The next month is going to make hurting us at times. That, too, is a the boards against them. Again, con­yet. American after succeeding Ohio 
or break us," says Coach Digger matter of inexperience. We have a trolling the boards will be a key. We "At this point, yes, we're assessing State's Art Schlichter at Miami Trace Phelps. "We know we have a long very inexperienced ball club here. haven't been able to do that all year. the situation," he admitted yester­High School, Grooms reported that "We've got to improve under­day. "But nothing's been done about Miami University's current quarter­
road ahead of us, but we have to So that's our big concern." make the most ofit. neath and on the boards. We still Phelps is not at all pleased with it." back is a sophomore walk-on. "The 
"This may be the toughest road the way the team played in Monday's
aren't getting the offensive "And nothing may be done," he situation looks pretty good for me," 
trip Notre Dame has had since I've rebounds we need to be com­loss to Murray State, and had heavy added he acknowledged. "I'm excited The attentions ofFaust and his as-about the opportunity to play."
been here. We play some of the top petitive." criticism for his players. 
Tomorrow, the Irish play North­sistants have been turned towards Two graduating seniors, specialty­
schools in the country between n9w "In the game against Murray State and the time the second semester ern lllinois at the ACC, then take on we did everything you can possibly recruiting recently, according to the teams captain Tony Belden and 
Valparaiso a week from Tuesday in do wrong in basketball," he said. head coach, so no formal announce-defensive tackle Joe Gramke, arebegins. Now is the time for us to 
grow up and become the basketball the last home game before the long "Turnovers, foul shooting, rebound­ments have come from his office returning next fall as additions to the team I know we can be. road trip. ing, missing easy shots, layups, shots 
since the season ended. Speculation coaching staff. The pair will assume 
~------­
centers around changing the assign-duties as part-time assitants while "We're due to explode. We're due ...::....___..:.._pursuing their master's degrees. 
~==~~======~==== within ten feet, we did it all wrong. 
ments ofsome assistants, and replac­
to put it toge~er, and that's what
Tri-captains c·hosen 
we're looking to do. We've got to get it together." 
I Lady Irish lose
Phelps refuses to write the season
at football banquet 
off, though he acknowledges that others have done so already. By MICHAEL ORTMAN Zavagnin, who many feel has been "We are the underdogs now, and living in Crable's shadow for three we're going to learn to play like un­
Sports Editor 
seasons, finished second only to derdogs," he says. "We need game Juniors Phil Carter, Dave Duerson Crable in tackles this year with 94. experience as a unit, and before this 
and Mark Zavagnin have been He led the Irish in interceptions in season is over, we're going to knock some people off."
elected tri-captains of the 1982 1981 with three. The goal for the Irish coaching
Notre Dame football team, it was an­Crable was named the team's staff right now is to gear the team
nounced at last night's football ban· Most Valuable Player for the second quet honoring the 1981 squad. consecutive year. Pozderac was toward January. They look at the 
upcoming road trip as a means of
All-American linebacker Bob Crable, recognized as the Outstanding Of­learning the things they need to
offensive tackle Phil Pozderac and fensive Player and Krimm was cornerback John Krimm shared the honored as the team's Outstanding 
learnt to become a contender by the Defensive Player. end of January. They point to the
top honors for the 1981 season. Carter will be serving his second Crable was one ofthe four finalists late-season success ofteams like last 
year's Indiana club, and the UCLAseason in the leadership role. Al­for the Lombardi Award which was though injuries have hampered his presented last night (to Texas Lon­
team of two years ago as models on which they arc basing their seasonthree seasons with the Irish, the ghorn defensive tackle Kenneth gameplan.
halfback now stands 13th on the Sims) in Houston, Tex. Crable Notre Dame career list with 1,649 became the first finalist in the 12­
The first game on the road trip is 
yards. year history of the award to miss the Kentucky. The Wildcats have signed a new two-year contract with Notre
Duerson has started t 20 games in banquet. He elected to stay on Dame. This year's game will be
the Notre Dame secondary over the campus for the Notre Dame dinner. played again in Louisville, but next
last two seasons including all 1 1 this Athletic Director Gene Corrigan year things will change. For the first
season. The Muncie, Ind., native led represented Crable in Houston. time since 1950, Kentucky will
Irish defensive backs in tackles this The two-time Irish captain al­travel to South Bend.
season with 55 and picked off two ready has been named a first team passes, returning one 88 yards for a 
See AWARDS, page 15
touchdown at Miami. 
See DEATH MARCH, page 14 
• 
67-58 at Butler 
By MARK HANNUKSELA eight key free throws in the con­Sports Writer test. 
"They (Butler) won because 
INDIANAPOLIS -The· Notre they deserved to win," said Irish Dame women's basketball team coach Mary DiStanislao. "You traveled to Butler last night, but can't play 8 minutes out of 40. It getting here didn't stop them. 
doesn't work. We made freshman 
Six second half travelling viola­mistakes, but it was all our up­tions -four of them in succes­perclassmen that made them. 
sion -spelled doom for Notre "They are an awfully goodDame, which lost for the second team. They totally dominated ustime in four outings, 67-58, to and they played to win. I hopeButler University. 
they are happy because theyThe Irish came up short played very well."
despite a furious set cond-halfrally 
which saw them pull within six, Next up for the Irish is an after­58-52, with 3:59 left. A 14-3 noon game tomorrow with Notre Dame spurt wiped out Northern Illinois, which is also 2­much ofa Lady Bulldog 17-point 2 on the season. Three Huskies, lead, but the Irish could come no led by guard Doreen Zierer ( 22.3 closer than six points the rest of points per game), are averaging the way. in double figures. The game 
Freshman Ruth Kaiser scored will be played immediately 12 points, six in each half, to lead following the men's game be­Notre Dame. Junior Jan Crowe tween the same two schools, and added nine points, but missed will start at approximately 4 p.m. 


