
• Top Ten Stories -page 6 
VOL XV, NO. 138 an independent student newspaper 
Reagan to speak 
ND holdscommencement 
By TIM VERCELLOTTI 
News lidttor 
Close to 2,000 students will rt-cclve dq~rt-cs as part of Notre Dame's 1.~6th annual commence· mt·nt exercises, to ht· held in the south dome oftlw Athletic and Con­vention Center on Sunday at 2 p.m. 
A total of I,602 undt·rgraduates, I ,207 mt•n and 39S women, will receive bachelor's degrees. The list of graduates also indudes 103 stu­dents to rt•ceive master's degrees, 77 studt·nts to receive MBAs, 146 law students to receiveJuris Doctor dt·grccs, and 49 students to receive dot:toratcs. 
Pn·sidt·nt Ronald Reagan will present tht•commcncemcnt address to the graduates, their families and guests. President Reagan will also receive an honorary doctorate. 
Other honorary degree recipients indudc Kurt Waldhcim, Secretary­General of the United Nations; G. Emmett Cardinal Carter, archbishop of Toronto; Alden W. Clausen, long time executive with Bank of America and president-appointee of the World Bank; Rene J. Duhos, scientist, author, humanitarian and t·nvironmentalist; Teddy Kollek, mayor of Jerusalem; Nikolaus Loh­kowicz, president of the University of Munich; Pat O'Brien, star of II 0 motion pictures, induding the title role in Knute Rockne: All­American; Allen S. Ripley, head of the Grace Foundation; Barbara 
Tuchman, author, historian; and Wil­liam H. Webster, director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. 
Edmund S. Muskie, secretary of state in the Carter administration as well as a 22-ycar veteran of the U.S. Senate, will receive the 1981 Laetarc Medal, Notre Dame's highest honor and the oldest honor accorded American Catholics. 
Co-valedictorians wil deliver the customary address this year. Nancy Marie Haegel, a metallurgical engineering student from Milan, Ohio, and Lawrence J. Pohlen, an aerospace and mechanical engineer­ing student from Eden Prairie, Minn., will share the honors. 
See ND, page 4 

I 34th year 
St. Mary's schedules exercises 
By MARY AGNES CAREY he awarded to Fr. Casimiro Roca, vocation, May 4 in O'Lau)o\hlin SMC 1!.--.:ecutlr'e lidttor who has dt~dicated his life to Auditorium, both Saint Mary's missionary work with Spanish faculty members and students 
'foday's nurses pinning ceremony Americans, and Maria Mazza received awards. 
Penny Jameson, a.o;sociate profes­

and Han·alaurcatc Mass will begin Komparc, a 1964 Saint Mary's 
sor of psychology, received the

thc 13-lth commenccmcnt cx· graduate who ha.o; worked with the 
Maria Picta Award for her skill,

crdscs at Saint Mary's College. Navajo and Hopi Indians in Tuha 
dedication and excellence in teach­

Forty·thrct· scnior nursing stu­City, Ariz., for the past I 0 years. 
ing, particularly in lower division

dcnts will each rcceivc a nursing Kathlecn Jean Gels is the valedic­
courses. Sr. Jean Kiene, received the

st:hool pin whkh exprcsses the torian for the dass of 19HI. The 
Spes Unica Award for excellence in President Reagan, recovering from the recent attempt on his life, 
itkals of nursing and signifies Lumen Christi Award winner will be 
teaching and service to the college. willt•enture to the Universi~y this Sunday to address the graduates of
st·rvkc to humanity. The ccrt·mony announced at commencement. 
1981. (photo b_y]oh11 Macor)
hq.;ins at I :30 p.m. in thc Church of Durin~o~ the annual Honors Con-See SMC, page 4 
Lort·tto. 
Fr. William E. McManus, bishop of the Fort Wayne-South Bend 
Looks back
Di<Kcsc, is tht· principal celchrant for tht· llan·alaurcatt· Mass which hq.;ins at 4 p.m. in thc court of l.t·Mans llall. Monsignor John J. 

SBP Paul Riehle remembers term 
E~o~an, director of the Notre Dame 

Ccntcr for J>a.~toral and Social Minis· Paul Riehle was the Notre Dame where thcy arc coming from on W c also established the escort found an area where students were 
try. will serve as homilist for the Student Body President this past issues. service which I think is a prime ex­being unfairly treated, and it wasn't 
ma.~s. 

year. lie was inten,iewed by Oh­Tht· last meetings of the Senate ample of the potential of the Senate so much an exampk ofan antagonis­Agraduation party from 9 p.m. to .scrvcr Senior Staff Report~ jeff 
and the CLC under my tenure were in that a district senator, who had no tk rclationship with the administra· I a.m. at Ccmury Ccntcr will he Choppin about this year's student 
an example of how the process is position in student ~otovernmcnt lion. 
sponsort·d hy the administration and government. 
supposed to work. We had proposals bdore this year, orginatcd the plan. We also reacted to the stripsearch tht· senior dass for parents and on housing which were discussed in We also lowered vcnding prices hy sending a pretty interesting letter 
)o\UCSlS. 

the Senate and tal<en to the CI.C. this year on Coke from S.45 to S.40, to Mayor Parent which we got a IIden M. Luke, a Jungian coun­Thcv were Implemented and that's with a promise from the Administra­rcsponsc from not long ago. I think sdor and published author, will why they ; have the off-campus tion to review the prices on all our relationship with the South dcllvt·r tht· t·ommt·n<:cmcnt addrcss housing co~mittee now. I think the sundry prices. This wa.o; pretty sig­Bend city politicians will he better and rn·eivc an honorary doctor of committee I~ going tp do some real· nificant in that it was another ex­next year.
humanities dcgrt•t• during gradua­

ly sionlficant at their last meeting. ample where student government See PRES, page 5tion ccrt·monics which begin at 
.,.. I ' I0::~0 a.m. tomorrow in the court of LcMans llall. In ca.~c of rain, com­Paul Riehle mcnlTmcnt willtal<c place in Angela Groufs to demonstrate Athletic Fadlity. Q: What would you regard as 
Luke studied the psychology of your chief accomplishment of this Carl G. Jung in Zurich and practiced year? 
Re(:lgfln visitsparksdissension as a counselor in Los Angdes for 14 A: The chief accomplishment yt·ars. In 1963 she established Apple would be the reorganization of stu­
By MARK! RUST I but to President Reagan. The letter protested the direc­
Farm in Three Rivcrs, Mich., a small dent government and Student 
NewsStaff : tions and intentions of Reagan's programs, and was 
ccntcr and guest house which has Senate this year. It will probably be I signed by Law ProfJohn Gilligan, former governor of
I

progressed into a community of the most long-lasting accomplish­Outside protesters numbering anywhere from I,SOO Ohio; Fr. John Fitzgerald, acting director of Campuspcoplc seeking to undcrstand the ment. I'd like to come hack in a few to 3,000 ate expected to turn out out for commence­Ministry; Enda McDonagh, Huisking professor of theol­transforming powcr of symbols in years and sec the Senate still in ment ceremonies Sunday. The protesters bring with ogy; Donald Sniegowski, assistant dean ofthe College of their Jives. operation. I suspect it will be. 
them a grab-bag Arts and Letters; and Harvey Bender, professor of biol­
Now in hcr 70s, Luke has spent The stuff the Senate did this year 
of ide6logical ogy. Faculty members arc required by contract to at· 
most of her life exploring the sym· was not as significant as it might in 
gripes that range FRIDAy.::=:::::=:=:::::::::::::::·:··· · tend graduation ceremonies, hut some were
future years. It took us a while in get­holk dimensions of the human 

from concern on considering cutting commencement. However, theting off the ground. The Senate has
psyche throu)o\11 dreams, images and 

El Salvador to protest would have gone unappreciated and few are ex· 
myths. She is the author ofa hook on spent a lot of time getting off its feet, nuclear rreactors, :=======:=:=:=====:=FOCUS pected to miss the ceremony.getting rules of procedure es­
Dante and ba.~ just published a col­

and they Although Secret Service officers declined to releasctablished.
lection of her essays, Woman: Earth 

represent at least six states. specific details of the President's visit, sources close toThe first major thing we did was
and Spirit. 
Security for the President's visit will "be tight," the arrangemchts have confirmed that the Presidentrewrite the CLC constitution. WeMsgr. E~o~an, Sr. M. Bertrand Sul­according to Richard Conklin, director of Information will be arriving in South Bend shortly before com­changed the body all around tolivan, gcnt'fal trca.~urcr of the Con­
Services. mencement ceremonies and will leave shortly thereat:mal<e it a pretty viable body. I think
~o~rcgation of the Sisters of the lloly 

A large group that will he protesting silently, rat!1er ter. He will be driven directly into the ACC in a car that 
Cross, and Sr. Jeanne Knocrlc, prcsi­the way the CLC and the Senate are than physically, is the Notre Dame faculty. A large and will also carry Fr. Theodore Heshurgh, lJniversity presi· dt·nt of Saint Mary-of-the·Woods set up right now is pretty positive. 
impressive group of deans, department chairman and dent, and Edmund Stephan, chairman of the Board of 
College will also receive honorary There is studcnt input; students other tenured professors drafted and circulated a one· Trustees. 
dcgrt·cs. The Prt·sidcnt's Medal will (arc) getting together deciding and-a-half page letter addressed not to the University, See PROTESTERS, page 4 



\ 



l\T~tlJSclJ==,..=~=·=e~~=S========~=======================F=r=id=~=·M==~=I=s,=I=98=1===Pa=g=e~2
by The Observer and The Associated Press 

Sovietprosecutorshave completed an investigation of jailed jewish activist Viktor Brailovsky and sent the case to a Moscow 
Partingwith mystique
court for trial, his wife said yesterday. Brailovsky, a 45 year-old cyber­
neticist and activist for the emigration of Soviet Jews, was arrested Nov. 13 and accused of "defaming the Soviet state and disturbing public order," a charge punishable by a three-year prison term. Irina Brailovsky said a Soviet prosecutor told her a date for her husband's trial has not been set. -AP 
Clashes broke out overnight in Salonica, Greece, be­tween police and rock music fans after a concert by the American rock group "Steppenwolf," injuring at least 37 people, including seven police officers, authorities said. Six youths were arrested. Police said the clashes in this northern Greek city began when more than 1,000 fans who wanted to attend the concert without buying tickets broke windows, stoned cars and threatened concert organizers. Police said the Palais de Sport auditorium, with a capacity of5,000, was half filled for the concert. -AP 
A California Pollreleased yesterday found that Califor­nians favor teaching the Darwinian theory ofevolution over the bibli­cal version ofcreation in the schools. The poll, a telephone survey of 1,015 people, found the evolution theory favored 6-I. But half ofthose surveyed said it would be all right to teach both views. The April survey followed a trial in Sacramento in which a judge ruled that teaching evolution does not violate the right ofcreationists. -AP 
A hearing has been scheduled for May 21 in U.S. District Court, Rochester, N.Y., for nine members ofa Philadephia-based radi­cal group, MOVE, taken into custody here. U.S. Attorney Richard Ar­cars said MOVE founder Vincent Leaphart, 49, was among the nine people arrested here Wednesday. Leaphart was arraigned on charges of conspiracy and possession and manufacture of bombs and incen­diary devices. He was held on $750,000 bond. Other MOVE members arrested here were charged with harboring and concealing persons from arrest and with unlawful flight to avoid prosecution. The arrest came almost three years after a shootout in Philadelphia that left one policeman dead and seven people injured. -AP 
Pacifist folksinger Joan Baez complained yesterday that she had been "practically expelled" from her Buenos Aires hotel and was forced to delay a press conference while police investigated a suspected bomb. "I haven't received any direct threats," said Miss Baez, who arrived here I 0 days ago to meet with local pacifists and human rightctivists. "But I've been pressured by the situation in the hotel and the episode that delayed the press conference." Miss Baez claims she has been followed by apparent plainclothes police, and a meeting last week with human rights activists was interrupted by tear gas bombs. Miss Baez' host in Argentina, 1980 Nobel Prize winner Adolfo Perez Esquivel, also complained that he has been exposed to "threats and harrassment for some time," including an incident which 
led to delay ofthe singer's press conference.-AP 
PopeJohn PaulII'Srecuperation from an assassination attempt will force cancellation of trips, audiences and possibly affect the upcoming abortion referendum in Italy. But Vatican officials say if the pope's spirits run true to form he can be expected to run the church from his bedside before long. An aide told the the Associated Prc..-ss it was likely the pope would be able to recite the Sunday An­gelus, the Lord's Prayer or a Hail Mary from his hospital bed -with a sound hookup to St. Peter's Square -as soon as he recovered. The first changes in the Polish-born pope's schedule were his May 31-June 5 trip to Switzerland and several forays outside Rome. Officials said the pope's trip to the French shrine ofLourdesjuly 22 would probably be scrubbed.john Paul, who has won wordwide admiration during his foreign tours, was planning a 10-day trip to Spain in the fall. It was not clear ifit, too, would be canceled -AP 
A billthat would allow steel companies to postpone compliance with clean air laws if they modernize existing plants has been ap­proved by the House Energy and Commerce Committee and is await­ing full House consideration. The measure, designed to revitalize the struggling steel industry, won House committee approval Wednes­day. It is similar to a version approved April 2 by the Senate Environ­ment and Public Works Committee. The Senate panel's version is awaiting action by the full Senate. The legislation would give steel companies a delay of up to three years in meeting pollution deadlines under the Clean Air Act. Such a so-called "stretch out" would be per­mitted as long as the comapnies apply the savings from the com­pliance delay toward specific iron and steel producing operations. ­
AP 

The Odds Were Stackedmillion-to-one against Scott 
Tagtmeyer, 19, Fort Wayne, in the "Build A Big Mac" contest, 
sponsored by McDonald's Restaurants. But he beat the staggering 
odds and cashed in on a S I 00,000 bet. Tagtmeyer, who eats four or 
five times a· week at the nation-wide fast food restaurant, won the 
contest by collecting four specific stamps. The announcement came 
yesterday from restaurant officials. What will the teenager do with 
UOO,OOO? After buying a new car and investing the remainder, 
Tagtmeyer says he will look ahead to an early retirement. The Internal 
Revenue Service, ofcourse, may have something to say about that. An 
IRS spokesman says the taxes on Tagtmeyer's winnings comes to 
$50,733. That figure applies only if the teenager does not have any 
other income. -AP 

Rain ending today. Decreasing cloudiness this after· noon, highs in the mid 60s. Thirty percent chance of showers today and tonight. 
The calm May sky that smiled down on Stepan Center while the campus played and studied parted for a mo­ment last Saturday afternoon, and in the crease of that part there appeared a blue and silver celestial object, floating lazily downward toward the cool-green field that is used for lacrosse. As the object neared the ground it came into focus and revealed itself: a huge, 12-passenger helicopter, panels unmarked by earthly codes, hovering over its chosen spot in defiance of gravity and other natural laws which bind us mortals. Landing skids on the ground, its side door slid open to release Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, whose entrance could only have been more dramatic if cherubim and serap­him had left their heavenly orbs to be in attend3JI.ce. As it was, a priest was in attendance instead, with Fr. Hes­burgh's metallic gray mustang, and they scooted offand disappeared into the bowels ofcampus. 
There are moments when one is seized with poetic revelation, moments illuminated by the joining of earthly truths and artistic insights, and this was such a moment. They occur with some frequency at Notre Dame, where the banalities of everyday life are often laced with a sense of divine purpose, protection and intervention. As journalists, our instincts tell us to look upon those moments with a certain amount of skep­
ticism. 
The unannounced visita­tion from the skies we were treated with had, of course, its mundane explanation; Fr. Hesburgh was returning from the University of Toledo where he was the commenq:ment speaker, and the helicopter belonged to that institution. But we found that out a few days later and the vision 
remained. 
We live in a world where political madmen shoot Popes and presidents, where the poor starve and the images presented by the media influence social morality and conduct. It is not a pleasant place. But here at Notre Dame, where the Chem-Lawn people keep the grass green and the security people restrict automotive eyesores, we are treated to Gothic spires and ivied realities, safe from the dangers of crime that lurk on the off-campus fringes, protected from the truth that we are marginal charac­ters in the theater oflife. 
The Hebrews thought they were God's chosen people. Ifthat feeling can be passed across cultures then it has been passed to us, who are reinforced by 51-yard field goals that win football games and bumper stickers that declare, with great hubris, that God and destiny have conspired to win us national championships. We chant "We are-NO," in unison at football games, but rarely stop to consider either the validity of that state­ment or its implication that we actually know what ND uis." 
I submit that we will not know what Notre Dame is until after commencement, when we enter the world of political madmen and violent crime, when we try to 
~The_Obserxer_ Bless you for doing this issue. Design Editor............. Ryan Ver Berlcmoes Design Assistants .............. Usa Bontempo Maura Murphy Layout Staff....­...........................Tim Neely Stephen Abowd Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor........................Tim VerceUotti Copy Editor ...........................Tom Jackman Sports Copy Editor.............. Beth Huffman Ad Design ................................ Mark & Anne Pbotograpber ............................ ]ohn Macor Guest Appearances .............. You wouldn't believe! A Man & His Dog An Editor & His Fool Mike & His Margie Brian & His Molly Higgins & His Friend Mary Ahern Maybe You Would Believe It's not rcaUy so hard  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fr~day except dur~ng exam and vacat11'ln per~ods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Marys College Subscr~pt1ons may be purchased for $30 per year ($15 per semester) by wr~tlng The Ob­server, P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. In­diana 46556 The Observer IS a member of the .A.,ssoc1ated Press All reproduction r1ghts are reserved  

artyt1me you can q€t the pResJ0€Jlt o~ the unrt€0 States to speak at youR commenC€11l€Tlt 1t 1s a CiReat honoR. 
So to you ~ew stu0€Jlts att€n0JnCi St. maRy's ano notRe Oame who oon't hapP€Jl to a(iRee w1th some o~ h1s v1ews ano aRe 
pRotestlnCi h1s aRRIVal--pack up youR mcmsles ano (jO home. Oon't 8€ SO CRU€l as to SPOil th€ Oay ~OR YOUR Oth€R Cl.assmat€S, th€ tWO rm€ schools OR roR th€ P€Opl€ or OUR commumty. 1know what you "k•Os" n€€0. 

make first-hand sense of hig-city distortions and small­town attitudes. It is highly appropriate that President Reagan should speak to us on that day about the world, whether we agree with his views or not. The world he will speak about bears little resemblance to the one to which we are accustomed; it contains Russians who ingress, defectors who egress, and human rights that regress. It is characterized by the cruelty ofwar and the protection of lives, the reality of embargo and the suspension ofties. It is an unholy place where assassins lurk and political repression is disguised by humanistic terms. 
I once had a professor who defined education as the process by which we learn to distinguish buil---t from truth. That definition captures our task most precisely. 
If we were to extend it, it 
might read: 
"commencement is the 
point at which we are forced 
to distinguish appearances 
from reality." Helicopters 
will be helicopters, with 
verifiable points of 
departure; college presi­
dents will be college presi­
dents, with speaking 
obligations and transporta­
tion needs. The poetry of 
mystique may no longer ex­
ist in the mind's eye, and our 
confidence in divine inter­
vention may evaporate as 
quickly as the Chem-Lawn 
dew that coats the campus. 
journalism is a trade ded­
icated to just such an ex­ercise, but even though I have been schooled in the art, I am loathe to let go of my illusions. I have grown too accustomed to the sense ofthe divine this place exudes, 
the sense of security it bathes us in, and the celebrity status it indirectly gives to each of us in turn. I have become accustomed to helicopters appearing out of the sky like the hand of God, easy access to the Ronald Reagans and Gerry Fords and Henry Kissingers, and na­tional attention for doing nothing but sitting in the foot­ball stands on a sunny afternoon and expressing good-luck sentiments. 
Iattended a press conference the other day in Fr. Hes­burgh's office after the Pope was shot, and, while the lights glared and cameras focused, Hesburgh explained that the shooting was especially poignant to him in light ofhis recent visit with the Pontiff. Itoccurred to me that in the world I am about to enter, even the closest thing we can get to the divine -the Pope -is susceptible to the whims ofa mad Turk with a gun. I realized then that that world is the real world, the other just appearance. I made a note at that time to thank my dad. 
I guess we got our money's worth. 



The Observer Friday, May 15, 1981 -page 3 


Board of Trustees convenes 
By TOMJACKMAN 
Managing Editor 
A tuition increase of undisclosed proportions, and the initiation of a st•arch for a new University presi­dent were two of the major actions taken by the Notre Dame Board of Trustees at its general, bi-annual meeting last Friday. Reports from each of tht· Board's seven commit· tees were also rt·ccived, as well as a proposal to create a Board of Trus­tees Evaluation Committee. 
Full dt·tails of the closed meeting were not immediately available, but a summary of the minutes was released by tlu· Board's briefing of­fker,James Murphy. The completed minutes will be presented to the Board fi>r approval at its next meeting in <ktoher. 
A general pattern which emt·rged from tht· meeting apparently con­cerned the imminent departure of University Prt·sident Fr. Theodore llesburgh at the end of next year. Chairman Edmund A. Stt·phan was elected to only half of a two-year tt·rm, as wert· the present officers of the University, and the board also went into executive session to receive a report from its Ad lloc Committee on Succession. Later in the meeting, Paul Foley, chairman of the Public Relations, Alumni Affairs and lkvelopment Committee, reported that its discussion the day hefort· had centered on the public rdations implications of succession in tht· positions of President and Chairman ofthe Board ofTrustees. It is tht· Board's responsibility to sdect a sue<:essor to Fr. llesburgh, who has tentativdy targeted the summer of 
ICJH.2 as his n:tirement datt', subject to the Board's approval. 
Committn·s of the Board met separatdy last Thursday to gather in­put from various outside groups, with tht· studt·nts reporting to the Student Affairs Committee chaired by John A. Schnl'ider. Student Body President Don Murday presented five proposals which had been drafkd and approved by the recent· Iy crt·att·d Student Senate. These in­cludt·d a request for a student observer at the closed mt·etings of the general hoard, in order to receive ft·cdhack from their 
proposals  a.~  prest•ntt·d  by  
Schndder.  However,  Murday  
reported  that  the  Committee  

viewed this request unfavorably, and no mention of this proposal wa.~ made in the summary of the general hoard meeting. 
Murday's other proposals in­cluded a permanent location for the l'lan·nH:nt Bureau, which he said was titvorahly reeeivcd, a commis­
'~·..} .. 

-~ ~~(trr-­
·---~~L 
..;. 

----. 
cliua11cnaci haarltc,r
•

IIIII 
on BEAUTIFUL DIAMOND LAKE 
DINNER: Tues.-Thurs.-5:00-10:00 Fri. & Sat.-5:00-11:00 Sunday-12:00-8:00 
6 New Schedules to O'Hare 

sion to study off-campus housing al­ternatives, a request for further funding of thc "Chautauqua" cof­feehouse, and a proposal to place a student member on the Board of Trustees itself. According to the summary of the minutes, no definite action was taken on any of these proposals. The Board also noted the reception ofa "student communica­tion" protesting the honoring of President Reagan at commence­
ment. 
In other actions, jerome Van Gorkom presented the report of the Financial Affairs Committee, which rt·qucstt·d and received an increase in tuition, room, board and laundry fcc for the fiscal IC)H 1-H2 budget. The exact amount of the increase wa.~ not announced, hut earlier speculation by University officials ha.~ placed the increase at ap­proximately I"i percent. Tradition­ally, tuition increase figures arc disclosed in a summer letter from Fr. llcshurgh to the parents. 
Two new trustees were added to the Board at last week's meeting, hringing the total to 40 members. 

WEEKEND ENTERTAlNMENT 
Pope,s doctors offerprognosis 
VATICAN CITY (AP) -Pope normal for cardiova.o;cular, John Paul II wa.~ reported making an respiratory and metabolic activities. excellent recovery yesterday from The prognosis is still guarded." bullet wounds inflicted by a Turkish But Dr. Francesco Crucitti, one of terrorist, and despite mild depres­the pope's surgeons at the hospital, sion and the high risk of infection said the pontiff was making an was visited hy two aides and a Polish "excellent" recovery. He said the nun in his sterilized hospital room. pope, who turns 61 Monday, 
Thousands flocked to St. Peter's remained under mild sedation, 
Ba.~ilica to pray for the pontiff, who receiving intravenous feeding, and 
wa.~ reported to have received last that the main worry was infection 
rites when he first entered the hospi-over the next few days. "If we can 
tal. · control this one, we may be able to 
Meanwhile, Ann Odre, "i8, of Buf­say we arc out of the woods," he falo, N.Y., one of two women said. wounded in the attack in St. Peter's Another attending surgeon, Dr. 
Square yesterday, wa.~ reported in Francesco Wiel Marina, told The As­serious condition after the removal sociated Press that the risk of infec­of her spleen. The other woman, tion was "quite high" because there Rose Hall, .21, wife of a Protestant was food in his colon at the time of minister serving U.S. forces in the operation. Marina said the pope Wuerzburg, West Germany, wa.~ seemed "a little bit depressed." reported in good condition with a 
Two of the pope's privatesevered nerve in the elbow. 
secretaries, the Revs. John Magee
A medical bulletin issued at 6 p.m. 
and Stanislaw Dziwisz, and a Polish -noon EDT -by Rome's Gemelli 
nun, who was not identified, had to 
Policlinico Hospital said: "the scrub and wear hats, gowns and general conditions of the pope arc gloves to enter his room for a brief 
substantially unchanged. In the I 0 visit and prayer. Doctors and nurses 
successive hours since the first bul­stood behind a large window letin was issued, his state of con­separating the pope's room and the 
sciousness is much better, with a 
doctors' station and were speakinglittle bit of activity in the room. The 
to the pope through an intercom to post-operative clinical limits arc 
cut down on personal contact. 
John A. Kancb, chairman and chief executive officer of Northeast Petroleum Industries in Chelsea, Mass., and Andrew ]. McKenna, president of the Schwarz Paper Company in Morton Grove, Ill. both were introduced and approved at the meeting Two more new trustees were also elected, but the names were withheld pending their formal acceptance. 
Other reports received by the general board included a final report on the Campaign for Notre Dame by co-chairman Ernestine M. Radin, who noted a total of SlHO,"i07,236 in gifts and pledges. Robert K. Wil­mouth, chairman of the Investment Committee, reported that the Uni­versity has more than $2"i0 million in endowment and pension funds under investment. Thomas Mason, the University's vice president for business affairs, presented an analysis of the likely impact of federal budget reductions on loan programs and research grants, and Fr. Edmund P. Joyce gave a progress report on campus construction projects. 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh presents a volume photographs transmitted back to Earth from the Voyager mission to jupiter and Saturn to Popejohn Paul II on a recent visit to Vatican City. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration supplied the bookfor Fr. Hesburgh to git'e to the pope. 
Fr. Hesburgh reacts to papal shooting 
By TOMJACKMAN 
Managing Editor 
Responding within hours after the 
shooting of Pope John Paul II in 
Rome, University President Fr. 
Theodore Hcshurgh convened a 
press conference Wednesday to 
express his "deep shock" over the 
wounding of the Pontiff. Later in the 
afternoon, Hesburgh offered a spe­
cial Mass on hehalf of the pope in 
Sacred Heart Church. 
"It is incomprehensible," said 
Hesburgh, "how anyone could try to 
harm a gentle Holy Father so totally 
given to seeking justice and peace in 
this world." Hesburgh said the inci­
dent had "special poignancy" to him 
since he had just visited with the 
Pope, in St. Peter's Square where the 
shooting took place, last month (see 
corresponding photo). 
Heshurgh did not believe the a.~­sassination attempt would have any effect on Sunday's planned visit by President Ronald Reagan, and ln­. .formation Services Director Richard 
A Boston Experience June 6 -July 5,1981 College age men thinking of 
I I 

priesthood and religious life are invited to live together for 3 weeks and share community, prayer, & ministry in Boston Deadline for applying: May 15 For more information : Fr. Frank Cafarelli, 
7113, 1456 or Fr. Bob Wiseman, 101 Marta Dr. Newark DE 19711 
Conklin was quott·d as saying, "security couldn't get any tighter." 
Reiterating his stand on gun con­trol, Hcsburgh declared, "it is ab­solute idiocy to have handguns as free and openly available as they are in this country, and throughout the world." The University President said he did not feel the need for per­sonal bodyguards, and noted that he turned down proposed protection systems for himself during the stu­dent uprisings of the late 1960s. 
Hesburgh held the press con­ference in his office in the Administration Building before a barrage of white lights and televi­sion camera.~ (two stations carried the conference live), and Hcs­burgh's voice seemed emotionally strained at times as he read his short statement. He concluded by saying, "It seems to mt• there's no semblance of justification of ter­rorist acts now that they have been aimed at one of the greatest apostles of justice and peace in this world." 

Between South Bend ond Chicago's O'Hare Airport 
Terminal there ore now 6 new schedules an Indiana 
Motor Bus. You want a dependable, convenient and 
inexpenSive way to make your flight at O'Hare and 
then to come back home. On Indiana Motor Bus you 
have plenty of seating room, luggage space, and 
rest rooms. And now you can make reservoiions on 
any one of 6 new doily round trip schedules. Coli 
today. 
and DANCING 
PHONF.: (616} 445-8686 OR 684-7660 
11\DANA IVICJTOM ii'JS 
219­


------------------------~----------~ -~~-----------~----------------------------------------------------------------~~ 
The Observer -continued from page 1 Friday, May 15, 1981 -page 4 


continuedfrom page 1 
According to protesters and Uni­versity officials, the protesters will generally confine their activities to Orange Field, the grassy lot south of the parking lot adjacent to Gate 10 of the ACC. Gate l 0 is the entrance 
reserved for general public use. 
One group, a local coalition called Indiana Concerned about Reagan Economics (ICARE), plans a proces­sion around the football stadium near the ACC. The procession will feature '60s style "guerilla theater," 
.ND 
continuedfrom page 1 
The number of graduates accord­ing to colleges lists as follows: 578 from the College of Arts and Letters, 483 from the Colkgc ofBusiness Ad­ministration, 342 from the College of Engineering, and 270 from the College ofScience. 
A spokesman for the Center of Continuing Education, which is coordinating the commencement activites, placed the number of relatives and friends to be housed on campus this weekend at "3,500 to 4,000." Local hotels and motels arc also expected to be filled. 
Among the events scheduled for this weekend are a concert by the University Concert Band to be held this evening at 6:30 in the Memorial Library Mall; a University reception, sponsored by the officers ofthe Uni­versity, which is open to the families of the graduates, is scheduled for tomorrw at 2 p.m. at the CCE; and the traditional Baccalaureate Mass will be held in the south dome ofthe ACC tomorrow at 5 p.m. Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh will be the principal celebrant and homilist at the Mass. 
aCI:mrding to Bob Harrison, the group's organizer. 
Guerilla theater, popular during protests in the '60s, features mimes and theatrical appearances of such social symbols as caskets, white crosses, and figures in effigy. 
The protest groups are organized under the umbrella of two larger groups, one from Chicago and one from all over Indiana. 
The Chicago group plans to arrive at Orange Field by noon Sunday with bus loads of Chicagoans and resi­dents from four other midwestern states who share concern on the government's role in El Salvador. The Indiana group plans to assemble in Leeper Park, march along U.S. 31 and Angela Rd on the sidewalk, and join the Chicago group in Orange Field by 1 p.m. Organizers say the protests will be "organized and peaceful." 
The larger of the two groups, the Chicago Religious Task Force on El Salvador, has been very active on the issue ofEl Salvador in Chica~~:o. 
Sr. Rosalinda Ramirez, the group's organizer, describes the group as "broad-based and ecumenical." The group is protesting Reagan's policies on El Salvador, which include sen­ding 63 military advisers and supporting the existing junta led by jose Duarte, a 1948 graduate of the University. Duarte has been described as a personal friend and protege of Hesburgh. 
Sr. Ramirez, who described Notre Dame as the "bastion ofthe national Catholic and educational image," said in an interview with The Ob­server this week that Reagan's policies are "diametrically opposed to the official Catholic stance"." By offering him an honorary degree, she added, the University "has taken a position with the rich and with Reagan's administration." 
Earlier in the week the Chicago 
group negotiated with the Univer­

• • • Protesters 
sity for a spot with "high visibility" in which to gather. After consulting with Washington Secret Service all parties agreed on Orange Field, which will allow the commence­ment audience to look on the protester's activities before entering the ACC. 
The Indiana group expects "a minimum of I,000 people, depend­ing on the weather," according to Harrison. The ICARE group is composed of an indeterminable amount of smaller groups from across the state, including The Bailly Downwind Alliance (protesting Reagan's stand on nuclear reactors), South Bend Women for Peace and Freedom, Gary Committee Against the Draft, Michiana Committee Against the Draft, and the South Bend Committee for Peace, among others. 
The protesters plan a steady stream of speakers that will include Rep. John Conyers, a congressman from the Detroit area, Peter Walshe, holder of the University's chair in Government and International Rela­tions, labor leaders, and assorted leaders of national social concerns groups such as FLOC and CILA. 
... SMC 
continuedfrom page 1 

Mary Mercedes Lopez, a junior from Crown Point, Ind., received the Saint Catherine Medal, the under-· 

graduate achievement award sponsored by Kappa Gamma Pi, ana­tional Catholic honor society for Professor Rich Hunter was elected Senior Fellow for women. 1981, and he was awarded this honor on Monday night
Senior 
Also at the convocation, 40 at Senior Bar. Along with the traditional plaque, Hun­seniors were inducted into l):appa ter, who is also the Notre Dame soccer coach, also Gamma Pi and 33 students were Fellow received a unique gift from the Senior Fellow commit­named to Who's Who Among Stu­tee: a bottle ofscotch. (photo byjohn Macor) dents in American Universities and Colleges. 
- AN OPEN LE1TER TO PRESIDENT REAGAN Dear President Reagan, On the occasion of your visit to our campus for the 1981 Commencement Exercises, we welcome you and wish you a safe and memorable stay at Notre Dame. Our welcome would not be complete if it did not carry with it our deep concern about the policies and direction of our country in regards to such issues as the economy and budget appropriations, human rights and American foreign pol[cy, and El Salvador, which is a part:lcularly sensidve issue for the Catholic community. ·We have voiced those concerns to the campus at large in light of your visit, and we wish to share these same concerns with you, as· our country's leader. Notre Dame has deep roots in a Catholic tradition of sodal justice, humanitarian ideals and the on-going struggle for peace in our world. These are likewise inherent in our vision of what America is called to be. In these troubled times, we cannot turn from our ideals of justice, but rather we must hold them more firmly; we must assert them as a key element in our role as a world leader. During your visit to our campus, we wish to share with you our concerns and our vision of America's role in building a just world. We urgently appeal to you to direct our public policies towards this vision. Sincerely, Notre Dame Students Concerned About Commencement Nicole Candanio Katherine Taglia Beth Pfaulatherine Foy Steve Ledoux Julie Chesky Kelly Leahy . Michael Cavanaugh William O'Brien Annette Lang Anna Flynn Rob Galinele Tony Clishem Joe FincherDiane Kukyno John Patrick Revord Elizabeth Emmerling Chris Gaffney Peggy Ogsberger Mike Haggerty Steven Mangine Mary Soule RachaelJones Bill Burke Matthew Golden Joseph CosgroveThomas Reuter Kathleen Bligh Rita Leard Bret Beegle Randy Fahs Maura Sendelbach Ginger WiedlerSheila Geary Thomas Perruchio Mitch Moore Patricia Hackett Mary BethJohnstonLee Ann Givan Bob Gotcher Karen Marley Paul Bertolini Mark Pasquerilla Gerald JohnstonJohn Higgins Susan Walsh Mike Case Maureen Manier Kathy Corcoran Timothy Hayes Pam BiracreeMary Ann Fenwick Peggy Miller James DwyerDan Bell Graduating students sharing the concerns expressed in this letter will be wearing white arm bands and mortarboards at the commencement ceremony.  







The Observer Anti-Reagan 
Concerned students protest 
By KELLI FLINT 
Sentor SluffReporlt•r 
Tht· Studt·nts Concerned About 
Commencement, an ad hoc commit­
tee formed in opposition to the 
choke of Prt·sident Rea~an as com­
mt·nt·emelll speaker, has planned ac­
tivitit·s for commencement 
wt·ekend, accordin~ to SCAC or­
~anizer Katie Foy. 
The SCAC met to plan activities af­
tt·r sta~in~ a protest rally April 2':> on 
tht· South Quad. 
"Tht· meetin~ went well," Foy 
said. "We were prepared to have 
opt·n discussion with our opposi­
tion, and had a faculty moderator 
present. hut no one from the opposi­
tion showed up. 
"The opposition helped prove 
many ofour points at tht· rally. Over­
all, we ft:el Wl' had a ~ood response." 
SCAC member Will O'Brien 
added that tht· rally served a positive 
purpose. 
"As the aftermath showed, if we 
didn't do anythin~ else, we raised 
questions," he said. "Faculty and 
~raduate s!Udt·nts have said that this 
is the first time in a long time that 
students at Notre Dame have raised .serious questions, other than about 
parietals and kc~s. 
In support ofbishops 
Campus group collects signatures 
By KELLI FLINT 
SentorStaffReporter 
The El Salvador Solidarity group, which circulated a pt:tltion support­Ing the U.S. Bishops' statement protesting military aid to El Sal­vador, reported a response of 1,355 signatures from the Notre Damt: t·ampus, and 473 signaturt:s from Saint Mary's campus, according to coordinator Sr. Carolyn Burgholzer. 
Sr. Burgholzer addt:d that results art: still coming in from Notre Dame, and that the Saint Mary's rt:sults wt:re incomplt:te. 
Rita Kopczynski, ofthe justice and 
Peace Ct:nter in South Bt:nd, indi­
cated that the pt:titions would be 
uSt:d as a show of support for tht: 
anti-U.S. military aid stance taken by 
the U.S. Catholic Confcrt:nce of Bis­
hops. 
In addition, the group intends to 
St:nd copies of the rt:sults to Presi­
• • • Pres 
continued from page 1 
Q: What is youra(J/lr••-'--~ '1f.Jiour performam··: ....... pastyear? 
A: 1 -would like to think that It was ""un:cssful year. I think that it was a successful year bt•t·ause I looked at the area~ that needt:d improvement 
.at the end of last year. Tht:re were thn·e areas. 
Organization uf studem govt:rn­ment is something future presidents will not havt· to worry :Jbout for a while. It's a pretty under1n.:mdable system the way it's or~anizeo rww with tht· Senate and the CLC. The 
Senate  wa~  just  a  badly  net:dt:d  
Vehicle.  
In  rt·gard  to  social  space,  Don  

Murday, a memht·r of my cabinet and prescm Student Body Pn·sidt:nt ha~ done a lot of work with that. w~ ar.e making a lot of positive strides With "Chautaugua". I think a student <.'enter Is a couple of yt:ars down tht: line. It's a question of finding a 
donor. Tht· third area is off campus 1 think we wen· more frustratt:d than anything t:lse. What we ended up w~th was tht: formation of that com­
"I think that we demonstrated that what we arc doing is peaceful and di~nificd. Many had termed us 'radical' before the rally. 
"We tclt, and others have com­mented, that the rally brought out the best and worst ofNotre Dame." 
SCAC members and supporters will he wearing white armbands, and those members participating in the commencement ceremony will be covering their mortarboards in white, according to Foy. 
"This is being done as an affirma­tion of Notre Dame social justice ideals," O'Brien said. 
"We want to clearly show that we do not approve of the choice of Reagan as commencement speaker," Foy added. 
"We have nothing personal against Reagan. We just want to show that the ideals of this Univer­sity differ from those he represents." 
The SCAC will also be circulating posters and setting up information booths around campus. 
O'Brien added that the SCAC recognizes that those who caused disturbances at the rally are not rep­resentative of the entire opposition. 
"We recognize that there are stu­dents who are more respectful in presentrng their views in favor of Reagan," O'Brien said. 
,'he SCAC has commumcated 
dent Rt:agan and Secretary 01 "'~·­Haig, a.~ well a'> issue prt:ss relt:ases to the Catholic wire services. The solidarity group hopt:s that the pt:ti­
. tion drive will serve as an impt:tus for similar actions on other Catholic college campust:s, according to Ms. Kopczynski. 
The signaturt:s were collected by student voluntt:t:rs during the final exmainations period. "We rcct:ived a good, positive responst:, espt:cially considering that it was during a hec­tic time," Sr. Burgholzer said. 
"If tht: timt: had bet:n better, we would have had mort: educational information about the situation in E1 Salvador made available in the halls." 
Sr. Burgholzcr noted that ND sup­port camt: in largest numbers from the student body. 
N.D. PARTY HEADQUARTERS 



2128 


PHONE 

AVENUE 277-3611 
locks liQORS unabventJseb qnabuat1on spec1als 
Passt Blue RIBBOn 24 cans $6.39 
ffi1llrn B€€R 24 cans $7.79 calV€Rt exv~a \\htskey 1 llt€R
,,





13acaQ7nt€ Rum 
750 ml 
with other groups about com­
mencement activities. 
"We havt: communicated with an 
El Salvador group from Chicago," 
O'Brien said. Tht:y have indt:pen­
dently negotiated with the Univer­
sity about where and when they will 
be able to demonstrate. 
"We want to make it clear that we 
support their effort, to .the extent 
that they will he peaceful and undis­
ruptive, but they are independent of 
us," O'Brien pointed out. 
"The El Salvador group has taken 
on a specific issue," Foy noted. "We 
have a broader range of issues in a 
social justice ideology, as that 
relates to University idt:als." 
O'Brien added that the SCAC is 
working on a coordinated effort 
with two other colleges: the Univt:r­
sity ofSan Diego, where Secretary of 
Defense Caspar Weinbergt:r will be 
speaking for commencement; and 
Fairfield Collt:ge, where Secretary of 
State Alexander Haig is scht:duled to 
delivt:r the commencemt:nt address. 
"These colleges t:xpressed similar concerns as Catholics about the policies that thest: men represent," O'Brien said. 
"We are not sure how the joint ef­fort will work out. There is a pos­sibility that they will also wear white armbands. We are also negotiating a joint press release," he commented. 
"Student coordinators in each hall circulatt:d the petitions," sht: said. "Almost all halls wert: rt:presented in the positive responst: to the Bis­hops' plt:a to the U.S. government to cease military assistanct: and ad­visers to El Salvador." 
Otht:r support came from NO graduate students, faculty, staff, and residents of Mort:au Seminary and Corby Hall. 
' ND coordinator Bro. Rod Struble noted that the pt:tition results wert: very representative. 
"The activity was succt:ssful in that it brought the Bishops' position to the students on campus," he said. 
"Tht: effects ofthe pt:tition remain to bt: set:n. The response of thost: who expressed themselves, howevt:r, was favorablt:," he noted. 
]lffi BEam BoURBOn  1 llt€R $6.89  
$6.99  i=JGhtlnG IRISh B€€R 6 pack $2.16.  
$5.59  24 cans $7.79  

As part of their senior week activities, these Holy Cross Hogs delve into the ritual of the "laking," as all ball members must be laked once they graduate. (photo byjobri Mucor) 
EARN UP 'ro $11,000 WITIDU:r INI'ERRUPI'ING 
COIJ...EGE 
In the Army Reserve, you can earn that much, and not have to rearrange classes, during four years of college. 
Under the Split Training Option, you can take your Basic Training this Summer and Advanced Individual Training 
next summer.  You get full pay for your  
training,  so  it's like having a  summer  
job.  

During the school year, you serve with your local Army Reserve unit for 16 hours a month, on a weekend. During the other surrrners, you attend two weeks of Annual Training with your' unit. 
Your pay for training and meetings is around $7000. Most Reserve units now offer cash bonuses of $1500, or up to $4,000 for educational assistance. 
Right now, the Army Reserve will pay for 15% -or $500 -of your outstanding National Direct Student Loan or Guaranteed Student Loan for each year you spend in the Reserves. 
All in all, it's pretty good pay for a student job. For details, call your Army Reserve Recruiter 
SSG HAMll..TON 234-4186 
mutet: consi.~ting of the different groups that were involvt:d in tht: whole problem. 



TheYear's Top Campus News Stories 
Observer News Special Friday, May 15, 1981 -page 6 
JX'elcome freshmen! 

extensive. The building's sole Fr. Mario Pedi, St. Eds' rector, the fire broke out. A majority of students were placed in study Flanner and Grace Halls. The Housing also utilized a wing ofColumba Hall, known as Vincent Hall, to house residents displaced by the blaze. Reconstruction of St. Ed's began in mid­October, and progressed throughout the school term. The blueprints included a complete restora­
tion of the main building, as well as a new four­floor annex. Work is scheduled to be completed in time for the fall semester. 
.Bye-bye, VB's -page5 

With the return of students came the return of off-campus crime. On Sept. 4, two students were robbed at gunpoint at their home. Losses totaled over $900. Assaults and robberies ofstudents, both on the street and in homes, continued for much of the first semester. Student leaders met with representatives of the city ofSouth Bend in an ef­fort to promote a dialogue between the student body and the municipality regarding the situation. 

The Off-Campus commission prevention seminars, which tended. 
Edward W. "Moose" Krause resigned the office of Notre Dame athletic director effective January I, 1981, thus ending a 31-year tenure. In_ an an­nouncement made at a Quarterback Club lunch­eon on October I 0, Krause stated, "It's been a long career, and I felt it was time for me to step out and let a younger fellow step in to take my job." Krause indicated that he did not know who his successor would be. Later that day, The Observer learned that the announcement had been prompted by news leaks from Charlottesville, Va., naming Uinversity of Virginia Athletic Diector Gene Corrigan as Notre Dame's new athletic director. University of­ficials announced Corrigan's hiring the following 
week. 
..~~ ·.~ ~;z{~~i
.• •r::::. -.~-;..":: .•--· 
A nerv Stutknt SenaJe? Today "s vote decides 
t·­
/ 
sponsored crime were sparsely at­
..• Pbilfi<,s_-page 7 
Fr. Toohey ''verygrar>e' 

Falh~r Toohey dies, St·rvio..-s romorrow 
The stuJent body overwhelmingly approved a revised student government constitution that would provide for a Student Senate. The Student Senate was the brainchild of Student Body Presi­dent Paul Riehle, and it was conceived as a means ofcentralizing the student voice. The Senate had a rocky start when the election results of District Two were contested. The conclusions ofan inves­tigation conducted by a committee of four senators reaffirmed the original results, declaring Zahm Hall Junior Frank Tighe the winner. In its 
first year of existence, the Senate considered a wide variety ofcampus issues, from overcrowded housing to prices on campus vending machines. One of the Senate's more notable accomplish­ments during the '80-'8·1 year was the institution of an escort service, designed to permit Notre Dame women to travel in safety after dark. 
istry in the Notre Dame community. On the occa­sion of his appointment as the director of Campus Ministry, Fr. Toohey commented that "We have got to expand the concept of'ministry' beyond the notion that it's 'what the priests do.' There should be at Notre Dame a ministry of the whole com­munity -men and women, religious and Jay per­sons, faculty and students -in much the same way family members minister to one another." 
__________... 'Real World'-page 6 

In mid-August, Notre Dame head football coach Dan Devine announced his resignation as head coach, effective at the conclusion of the 1980 season. This announcement touched off widespread speculation regarding Devine's suc­cessor. In late October, The Observer learned that the choice had already been made, and Cincinnati Moeller High School's Gerry Faust was to be Devine's replacement. On Nov. 24, Fr. Theodore Hesburgh officially confirmed Faust's selection. University Executive Vice-President Fr. Edward P. Joyce, chairman of the Faculty Board in control of athletics, remarked that "Gerry Faust is the perfect individual to carry on the great tradition associated with athletics at the University of Notre Dame." 
.Keenan Revue -page J 

A raid on Corby's Tavern in early February resulted in the arrests ofeight Saint Mary's students for underage drinking. While being processed at St. Joseph County Jail, the eight women were strip­searched by a female corrections officer. There was talk ofa law suit against the city ofSouth Bend in protest c : the searches, but no action has yet been taken. After an investigation of the incident, city officals affirmed the legality of the process, yet also conceded its impropriety in this case. A hearing was helc1 regarding the underage-drinking charges, and the eight women were assigned a number of hours ofsocial work in the community as retribution for their actions. 
A settlement in the ongoing tenure suit involv­ing all Notre Dame tenured female faculty· employed after 1974, as well as all tenured and non-tenured female faculty employed after 19"8, inched closer to becoming reality in early April. 
U.S. DistrictJudge Allen Sharp gave his preliminary approval to a court settlement that would bring to a close years of litigation involving female profes­sors in general and English professor Dolores Frese in particular. The conditions ofthe settlement stip­ulated that Ms. Frese receive tenure, as well as back pay dating from Sept. 1, 1980. In addition, the settlement called for the establishment of appeal procedures for "persons displeased with tenure and other hiring decisions.·: The acceptance of the settlement was tentative, pending the comments of members of the class action suit. 
. Bookstore X -page 7 



Corby's Tavern, a traditional gathering place for Notre Dame and Saint Marys' students, ran into license renewal troubles this past year due to the accommodation of underage drinkers in the es­tablishment. After month~ of hearings both in In­dianapolis and South Bend, the St. jo~eph County Alcoholic Beverage Commission renewed the lo­cal ba/'s liquor license. Instrumental in the renr~;l was a five-point plan "intended to im­prove the general qu..titv. Qf)ife in the Northeast 
Noghborhood for all of tts em..~-~ students in­chx.led." The plan was authored hy Mr. a ..... M.rs. Harold Rowley, proprietors ofCorby's. At the cori­cl~sion of the hearing, Rowley pledged that "We are going to do everything so that we can c~me before this b .trd next year in an up-beat fashiOn. We want to identify and solv~ problems on an in­
ternal basis." 
/rl~b IJJ!fftees -page 12 
Shortly after the announcement was made that President Ronald Reagan would be the principal speaker at Notre Dame's I 36th commencement exercises, a cry of protest went up from some members of the Notre Dame commut'lity. These students gathered to form the Students Concerned About Commencement, and they immediately set to work voicing that concern, thrqA.Jgh editorials, a position paper and a protest raJly. The rally at­tracted both opponents and s(Jpporters of the President's policies, particularly hKs economic plan and military aid to ~I Salvador.. GJ'{ern~en~ P~of. Peter Walshe descnbed the Umvi:rst(ty's mvttauon as a reflection of "arrogant clericalism and an aut­horitative corporate mentality." The f ro-Reagan people countered with renditions of the tiona! anthem, and the slogan "Don't give the Gi p no lip." 


Irish Extra :PDffe_ 5 


The Observer Friday, May 15, 1981 -page 7 
Joining more of America than any other airline . 



Our4 nonstops to Detroit 
• are iust the beginning . 
After hitting the books hard, we think you deserve an easy way Along the way, you'll enjoy the kind of excellent service that home. And the way starts with our nonstops to Detroit. Because you probably wouldn't expect from any airline. Hearty breakfasts, they open up the entire country. New service to Baltimore/ interesting luncheons, delicious dinners ... many with Washington, Boston, Cleveland and New York in the East. complimentary wine. Orlando and Sarasota/Bradenton in the South. Seattle/Tacoma And all served with a smile. A friendly smile that we mean, not and Portland in the West. Even Canada, with service to one that appears pasted on. Montreal and Toronto. That's Republic from South Bend ... the easy way home. Join us 
Naturally, our nonstops to Chicago still provide great soon ... and see you next fall. connections to the rest of the Midwest. 
Nonstop To Detroit 
Lv. 6:10a.m. Ar. 7:44a.m. 9:20a.m. 11 :03 a.m. 1:30 p.m. 3:04p.m. 4:30p.m. 6:04p.m. 
To Atlanta Nonstop To Chicago To Houston To Nashville To Sarasota/Bradenton To Traverse City 
Leave Arrive Leave Arrive Leave Arrive Leave Arrive Leave Arrive Leave Arrive 
9:20 a.m.• 1:05p.m. 10:00a.m. 10:35 a.m. 6:10a.m.* 11:45 a.m. 9:20a.m.* 11:35 a.m. 6:10a.m.* 1:07 p.m. 6:10a.m.* 8:54a.m. 
1:30 p.m.* 5:05p.m. 8:35p.m. 9:07p.m. 10:00a.m.* 3:26p.m. 4:30p.m.* 8:08p.m. 9:20a.m.* 3:48p.m. 1:30 p.m.* 4:08p.m. Effective 6/12. 
To Baltimore To Cincinnati To Huntsville/Decatur To New York/Newark To Sault Ste. Marie 1:30p.m.* 4:41p.m. Discontinued after 6/11.
Leave Arrive Leave Arrive Leave Arrive Leave Arrive Leave Arrive 6:10a.m.* 9:28a.m. 4:30p.m.* 8:08p.m. 9:20a.m. • 12:23 p.m. 6:10a.m.* 9:35a.m. 6:10a.m.* 10:07 a.m. 
To Washington, D.C. 
9:20a.m.* 12:58p.m. 9:20a.m.* 1:25 p.m. 
To Cleveland To Minneapolis/St. Paul 1:30 p.m.* 5:25p.m. To Seattle/Tacoma Leave Arrive
1:30 p.m.* 5:28p.m. 4:30p.m.* 8:20p.m. 6:10a.m.* 9:28a.m.
4:30p.m.* 8:18p.m. Leave Arrive Leave Arrive Leave Arrive 9:20a.m.* 12:58 p.m. 
6:10a.m.* 8:29a.m. 10:00 a.m.* 12:40 p.m. 1:30 p.m.* 6:54p.m. To Boston To Orlando 1:30 p.m.* 5:28p.m.
9:20a.m.* 11:59a.m. 
1:30 p.m.• 4:29p.m. To Montreal Leave Arrive To Toronto 4:30p.m.* 8:18p.m.
Leave Arrill& 6:104Mn.* 9:43a.m. 4:30p.m. 7:04p.m. Leave Arrive 6:10a.m.* 12:06 p.m. Leave Arrive 9:20a.m.* 1:02p.m. 9:20a.m.* 1:15 p.m. 9:20a.m.* 4:48p.m. 6:10a.m.* 10:40a.m. 
'Connect•ng scrv•ce
To Flint
1:30 p.m.* 5:32p.m. 1:30 p.m.* 6:00p.m. 1:30 p.m.* 8:40p.m. 9:20a.m.* 1:17p.m. All schedules subJC<I to ch,mgc• 
4:30p.m.* 8:33p.m. Leave Arrive 4:30p.m.* 1:30 p.m.* 5:37p.m. w•thout notocc 9:20a.m. 12:30 p.m. 4:30p.m.* 9:32p.m.

~~;gPT::ortla~;~~·~ p.m. 

• 

Friday, May 15, 1981 -page: 8
Editorials 
Campus protests not litnited to ND 
WASHINGTON -One side benefit of the Reagan administra­
Colman McCarthy
tion is the arousal of what for years seemed to be a dead art: campus protest. 
At Howard University, 40 are part ofthe celebrity games thatgraduates stood and turned their many universities play with abacks when George Bush vengeance at this time ofyear. Big
delivered the commencement names guarantee national atten­
address. About 100 students took a tion. Images are enhanced.
walk during Alexander Haig's The grossness ofcelebspeak wasgraduation speech at Syracuse Uni­seen last week when Americanversity. At the University of Pitts­University's College of Arts andburgh, 40 graduates turned their Sciences subjected its graduatingbacks to Jeane Kirkpatrick. At class to George Gilder, a popNotre Dame, where Ronald Reagan economist· enjoying a vogue with
is to speak and be honored this the Reagan administration for his
Sunday, a faculty-student coalition book, "Wealth and Poverty." Somehas been protesting his coming ap­50 students turned their backs on pearance since late April. 
Gilder during his 15-minute num­It's all to the good -or as Presi­ber, a speech for which (he told adent Reagan says, America is not a reporter) he was paid S2,500. A 
P.O. Box Q
sick society. The healthiness ofthis much larger group wore white arm
commencement protest is found in its robust agreement with what bands to protest Gilder's past ccould be around more often. Still, joyous and sincere occasion it is, as views on racial and sexual issues.
Albert Camus told an interviewer: Walsh rector we've benefited from your untir­families and teachers join togeth•er "Comfortable optimism surely The AU dean who invited Gild~r ing devotion to Campus Ministry to celebrate the commencement seems· like a tried to dismiss the protest as an and your first-hand information ofthe graduates' mature lives.
bad joke in today's 
gives thanks
attack on free speech. He moaned
world." and enthusiasm on the many That the President of the Unitt:d to the Washington Post that 
projects you're involved with States has wished to join us on that 
"...intellectual integrity has some­to Sr. Pitz there. happy day is just delightful, and I
"The current protests 
thing to fear from the self-satisfied, For being this -and so much 
believe that he should be, and will
Editor's Note: The followiug
deserve to be celebrated smug, old-fashioned, knee-jerk more -to me and to the women be welcomed with the warmth and
open letter was sent to Sr. jane
liberal atmosphere on most ofWalsh, thank you,Jane. You have 
respect that is the tradition atbecause they suggest campuses today." been a blessing to our home, and I Notre Dame. 
Pitz, the associate director of 
Campus Ministry.
That wasn't it at all. The AU pray blessings a hundred-fold tothat this is not protest came from the justified you, our truly wonderful woman of Prof Kenneth Featherstone 
Dearjane:
sentiment that George Gilder was Walsh, who has given so much to South Bend 
a tifJ'le to be passive., As I journey from this place, rich 
a low-grade choice as a graduation so many here at Notre Dame.
in tradition and dedication, I bid a
speaker. He is not known for 
special farewell to you.
In their refusal to go along with public service, he is not a role Sr. Kathleen Rossman
Each year I've waited for you to 
Arkie objects
the "comfortable optimism" that model for the young and his Former Rector, Walsh Hall
be featured in Notre Dame
the Reagan policies seem to be notoriety is based on little more 
Magazine orScholastic, to receive to Dome's
generating, the -dissenting than his being today's hot ticket . 
the Student Affairs "Pop Farley
graduates have been civil and dig­among the right wing. Here is 
ND professor classification
Award" or the "Reinhold Niebuhr
nified. Their protests have been Washington, brimming with 
Award." Why you have not been
mostly silent, well removed from politicians, judges, diplomats and defends
selected as one of the "25 Great 
DearEditor:
the head-busting upheavals of the educators, and American Univer­
Notre Dame People," as a woman
Vietnam years when graduates sity -hard-pressed for money and appearance As a graduating fifth-year stu­
of outstanding concern for stu­
were addressed by a Robert raising fees 13 percent next year dent of architecture, I find that r 
dents, for justice or for a better life
McNamara or Lyndon johnson. -pays $2,500 for 15 minutes of DearEditor: must take exception to The 
at Notre Dame, I don't understand.
The current campus protests gab from a pseudo-economist. In fraternal fashion, I would Dome's classification of my degree deserve to be celebrated because Summa cum laudes ought to be You have an incredible ability to advise those students intent upon as a "B.S. Architecture" in the listen carefully to each person you manifesting political disagreement
they suggest that this is emphati­conferred on AU's protesting senior section of the yearbook. Al­
meet and never seem rushed. I've
cally not a time td be passive. graduates. At the other schools, at our commencement to desist. though there is occasionally Policies are being advanced by the professors ought to get raises for seen you put an arm around There are so many thoughtful and criticism that architecture is large­someone, brush away a tear, or
Reagan administration that will teaching so well that at least a few consequently effective ways to in­ly B.S., I for one do not hold that 
lead to suffering and hardship for students have both the discern­share a glass of wine with students fluence the conduct ofour nation­view. Notre Dame, in fact, does not 
large numbers ofcitizens. ment and courage to dissent from when I knew you'd just returned al affairs, that it is saddening for even offer the degree which they from a long pre-Cana weekend or
Although turning one's back on the Reagan policies. If college is a students, even faculty, to resort to have assigned to the entire
r were on your way to put the finish­
someone like Haig or Kirkpatrick is time to learn about the battles of mindless demonstrations of un­graduating architecture class. A 
ing touches on our Lenten packets. 
at best a gesture, and may only our day, then graduation is not too constructive purpose. five year program entitles us to a 
The only criticism I have heard
harden the already hard spirit of soon to take sides. Almost all undergraduates, by Bachelor of Architecture combativeness that these officials of you was that students over the definition, have yet to attend a (B.Arch.). No B.S. years have said they wished they
display toward their critics, the Tbe W asbtngton Post Company Notre Dame commencement, and Michael Gazzerro
knew you better or that you
message behind the gesture is therefore cannot know what a South Bend powerful. At Notre Dame, the message of protest was articulated by joseph 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 


Buttigieg, an assistant professor of English. As quoted in the National Catholic Reporter, he said that in addition to Reagan's "indifference to human rights," he is also "ignoring the advice of Catholic bishops with regard to El Sal­vador." The bishops have been pleading with the administration since January not to send military aid 10 the Salvadoran junta The professor concluded about · Reagan: "To bestow honor on this man would be to dilute, obscure 
and trivialize the principles of Notre Dame." The campus appearances of Re3R30, Bush, Haig and Kirkpatrick 
DON'TIAJORRY 

tum, I'MNOT/ If THEiR& /5 

NOW,7HAT5A PROB­
"8/C/(8/ f{(J.{J 
ABCKJTIT? YW I'M IN 7l-i3 
AND I [)(}N'T AtuWOING. 
LEM. IU& Cf}()W
{X)(j/..1} 7H/3Y hV'Inn 
DON'T CAR& 7HAT N&IA/5PAP£R.. 
ICAN1
!A/ANT AlL MY L«JK5 L-ll<l3 
HAV& R&IAT!VES
51'!3LL YOUR.. l!llf..IN<,y A­
YOUR NIIA1!3'5 M/5-8USIN555. 
STAND
fRJ!iNOS CAlLING TH&Y /IL.50 
OROPPING IN ON
NAM/3 "8/CK"<' 80lJT IT, 
5PcUE/lON YOUR.. I'M USW
· JOAN!& .. 
YOU "8/CI::.• AT t£PT fYF 
TH& lf/&00/NG. THe OAT&.
I I 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Edltor·ln-Cbief......................................... John McGrath SMC Executive Editor .....................Mary Agnes Carey
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
.'tlanaging Editor......................................Tom Jackman SMC Neu>S Editor ................................Cathy Domanico
The Ohserver is an independent newspaper published by rhe students of rhe 
Executir~e /lleu•s Editor ..............................Lynne Daley Photo Editor..................................................John Macor
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor net:essarily 
:Veu·s Editor .............................................Tim Vc:rcc:llotti reflect the policies of the administration of either insrituuon. The news is reponed Business Manager ....................................Rich Coppola as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent rht· opinion of a Senior Copy Editor ................. ...... Mary Fran Callahan Controller.......................................................Joc Mulllur 
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and leuers are the views .'iports Editor.........................................Michac:l Onman Advertising Manager......................................Mark EUls of their authors. Column space is available to all members of rhe community. and Production Manager ...................Ryan Vcr Bcrkmocs Circuhllwn Maltllger ........................Tom MacLennan
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. is enwuraged. 

r--------------~-~--~---------~1 
The Observer 
Friday, May l 5, I98I -page 9 
Weekend 


]:T'5 A Ct..EAFZ, BRISK $f11JR!>AY 
HDRNIN4 IN 77-1£ FALL. YrJU'iJE: JUST AWA!'.e/11, K/6SE"P YOUR 23 Y£/ttt:.-0/..l> WIFE, HDtJIQl£ THE EX-IvfDDf.L, (;,DODBY£ ltJJD ~TEPPt:]) (I.Jr5/[)£ 
74f?OU&~ YtXJR 40 ACRE' HAIIJE ATLJtm7L COA~TL lNE E:mn£ TlJ Yt:UJ<i LEAR, J1::T 
:I DON'T WANT TO GO INTO 711£ REAL WORLP... r'M NoT READY'; I 5fROV£ FOR FWR 'rEARS T{) 
6ET HY DIPL-.OMA ANI> NDW I'vE (1CJr 1/. -:I. C:::.UES? NOW THERE" 15 

YoU CA6UALLY :5/P YOUR JilO; DAIVI£1...~ AIJ.D 5NAC.K (}~..) FINE CU/5JN£ PREJ:lo\R£D BY YtJJR. ~IVAI£' fRENCH CHEF. 
YO~ PILDT Wl1>f0 YaJ 51-JMfTHL y 
DTHF\()IJ4H Tl-1£ SJ<.t{;S 
TV'S STEREOS 
291-5112 
14 Engine 15 Doctrine 16 Ink, In 
Paris 17 Maxims 19 Western 
lake 20 Shipshape 21 Hawthorn 22 Prejudice 23 Cad 25 Old Dutch 
coins 26 Approval 36 Shutdown 37 Native: 
suff. 38 Ulan­39 Study 40 Loveof 
· country 42 Landers 43 Nota few 44 Some kin 45 Zola 47 Fall pear 48 Overre­
finement 
Today's Solution 
-·-·-··-···~ ---" TIM, YOU'll£: G!DT IT"-4LL J,..;~. WHAI YOU N££P 15 A 600P G?DA L I 5DH£Tl-IIAJ4 70 WORK FbR. .50 PICTURE T/-16 SCENt:: FiF1£EN 

AH£1i TO<X:HINGDoWN tNHICHIAAIA, REY::riCYJAL All?PORI, YoV Bo4R.l> A IVA111Nc?t 1/EL/CDP~ WHicH LIFT6 YtJU 
IHEe,RU.N AE:t..i> f,[;HtAlP Til:£ACe 
F"ROH TIIE.P£,/Ts ,)IJST A ~f WALK TO 7'Hf: Lu.JCJ/£0AJ REL:E.PTioN IIV NNR£ PA!-1£ 6/A-1>/UJ..f 

ACROSS 1 Dumfound
The Daily Crossword 8 Taste 9 Computer game button 
22 Gad 24 Heraldic term 25 Doctor, at times 28 Ghana 
capital 27 Gallery 28 Fractured 
phrase 29 Walter the 
dreamer 31 Originated 32 Semesters 34 Jungle vine 35 Close 
questioning 38 -deBou· 
logne 40 Conceal 41 Koh-­
(famous diamond) 43 Money-grubbers 46 Goa-
minute 47 Covey 48 Soccer star 49 Octavia, 
to Antony 50 Beasts 52 Woe-! 53 Feds 54 Planes 58 Vanedlr. 57 Hush-hush 
group


59 Recent: comb. form 60 lnonu of Turkey 61 Bombeck 
and others 62 Terminate 63 Prayer 
words 
DOWN 1 "-For All 
Seasons" 2 Dawdle 3 Balle­
Ciiath (Dublin) 4 Belief In 
animal gods 5 Miscalcu· 
late 6 Rug yarn 1 "This­
beloved" 8 Afts. 9 Keep 
10 Pass laws 11 Discordant 12 Cupid 13 Pour 18 "-man 
with .... " 
l~nw;.~~~g;~;~-----1 : from Russ lawler of T~wn and Country : 
f Gates Chevrolet 
t ' 
t 666 W. McKinley t us 20 : Mishawaka, IN 
t . 
' 
. ' t
t 
256-3000 t : 
t

t sell your car or truck to us t t I 
1sale prices on new chevroletsl 
t -------------· t 
' 
l----------------~ 
Campus 
Friday, May 15 
•t
:30 p.m. -nurses pinning ceremony, church ofloretto, smc 

•4:00 
p.m. -baccalaureate mass, Cr. william c. mcmanus, principal celebrant, court of lc mans hall, smc. 

•6:30 
p.m. -lawn concert, uni­versity concert band, memorial library mall 

•8 
p.m. -ballet, "coppclia," o'laughlin aud., smc. 

•9 
p.m. -graduation party for smc grads, parents and guests century center 


Saturday, May 16 
•1
0 a.m. -rotc commissioning, south dome, ace 

•10:30 
a.m. -smc commence­ment, court of lc mans haJJ. In case of rain, angela athletic facility 

•11 
:30 a.m. -phi beta kappa in­stallation, memorial library auditorium. 

•2 
p.m. -university reception, spons. by the officers of the uni· vcrsity, families of the graduates arc invited to attend, ccc 

•5 
p.m.-baccalaureate mass, Cr. theodore m. hcsburgh, principal celebrant, south dome, ace 


17 p.m. -cocktail party and buf­fet supper, north dome, ace 
•9 p.m. -concert, university of notre dame glee club, stcpan ccll­tcr 
Sunday, May 17 
•to 
a.m. -graduate division: business administration diploma ceremony, memorial library auditorium 

•t 
p.m. -distribution of bac­helor's and master's diplomas, graduates only, north dome, ace 

•2 
p.m. -commencement and conferring of degrees, south dome, ace 

•4:30 
p.m. -law s~hool diploma ceremony, sacred heart church 


Graduates must bring IDs to ceremony 
The University has requested that all graduating seniors bring their Notre Dame ID cards to the com· mcnccmcnt ceremony on Sunday, for identification purposes. Students arc asked to arrive early because delays arc anticipated due to security restrictions. Parents and guests of the graduates should also arrive early. Faculty and seniors should enter through Gate 3 begin· ning at noon, Gate I 0 will open to all others with tickets also at noon. 
Those parents and guests who did not receive graduation tickets from the Registrar's Office, or who lost or forgot their tickets, should check in at the ticket window at Gate I 0 of the ACC for replacements. 


--~---~~--~~-----~-~--------~---------~-------·-­
The Observer 
Friday, May 15, 1981 -pag1e 10 

special graduation performance may 15th o'laughlin (st. Mary's) 8:00pnt 
tix call: 284-4176 

Cast members of the ND/SMC Theatre production of the full length ballet 
COPPELIA rehearse for the final perfonnances 
Directed by Professor Debra Stahl, the production is a first for the department 

Features 
Give peace a chance 
A 
young man, age 2.3, has shot tht• Popt·, and pcopk art· asking: "What is wrong with the worl(,l?" A young man, not much older than our graduating st:niors, allempb the murder of a gentk shepherd be­cause, the young man says, "I am against the social order which was eating us." Comments from everywhere are tht· samt·: "Tlw world is sick, sick, sick." 
Notre Dame, we always say, is a special place. The campus, we kd, blesses the people who come here. Travclkrs arc rdrcshed by the scenes of innocence: duckN swimming on the lakes; the stadium filled with echot·s ofthundt·r dating from Rm:knc's time; the Grot· to at night, banked with the fires ofhopeful candles; the Dome, signifying S<>rin's covenant with the Mother of <;od. We: arc a special place. Our love: for one anothc:r has a spc:dal grace, bt·causc: we know that we arc more st:rious in our caring than other pt:oplc. 
r 
Rev. Robert Griffin (~_~ 
Letters To A Lonely G,d;~ 
But other people, we recognize, also t·arc dt•t:ply: the studt·nts who went to Selma; the priests and nuns who went to jail opposing Vietnam; the kids who were man­handkd by pollee in the streets of Chicago during the llJ6H convention. We know the litany of names and places idcntifkd with heroes who have suffered in thdr protests against tht· social ordt·r whkh cats up the poor and hdplt:ss. 
Always at tht· edge of things is the fear of violence: what is going to happt·n? Who is going to get hurt? What horror waits tht· for tht· flower children, with their t·hants and mantras ph:ading for peace? All they want is for Somebody Important to listen. All they insist on is hdng ht·ard as they represent their Christ-like c;mst·s. 
The world is sick, sick, sick. Protestors, hungering and thirsting alkr righteousness, identify better than anyone with tht· sorrows of the poor. lie who hears the protestors, autht·ntically hears the voice of God in our timt·s. Tht·y an· our prophets, our lsaiahs, our lloscas, our John tht· Baptists. They very sincl'fcly. likt.· tht· an· dcnr prophets, try to keep UN honest. 
The horror awaits them. There is a chemistry in prott•st out ofwhich violence comes. One single person in nowd rdust·s to bclicvt· of the protestors that all they really want is to givt· peat·e a chance. The egg is thrown, and tht·n the rock, and tht·n the riot hegins. Among tht· protestors themselves, there is, at the hcgin­nin~o~. only tht· gt·ntlc insistence on tht· right to describe the evil that they prn:eive is happt·ning. Then, fearing it 
,·tmtlnuedfrom page 12 
Faust and his staff were also con· n:rned with narrowing down the lJUartt·rhat·k position. Before spring drills started, tht· new coat·h indi­catnl that at the: end of the pre· st·ason ht· hoped to name his top two quarterbacks -the two signal­calkrs that would share the hulk of till' work when practices resume: in August. "But 1onn't know if we c;m do that after today," ht· said follow· ing thl· Blue-Gold game. 
Incumbent Blair Kic:l startt·d the spring as No. I lJUartcrback, slightly aht·ad of Tim Koegc:l, who was granted an extra year ofc:ligihility to play for his high school coach. Scott <irooms, like Kicl a sophomort· next year, was third on the depth chart. 
is not heard, the insistt'ncc: becomes stronger; then it hecomt's anxious, and finally, frantic, until in somt' mimf.-twisted by emotion, insistence explodes into a mandate to stop the maldactor. Some sick human being makes his protest with the point ofa pistol. The death of a leader, brought down hy violc:ncc, indicates to me that in a nation with laws and elections and peaceful assemblies and a free press and television, the conduct of governments cannot be: manipulated by the: well­meaning insistence of love festivals that an idiot can turn into a street mob broiling with the police. 
I am doubtlessly missing something, or cheapening truth, and I am probably making a damn fool of myself by suggesting there: could be any relationship between two decades of assassinations and the two decades in which protestors follow public leaders everywhere:, to hang albatrosses of guilt around their necks. But whether I'm misguided or not, we have a scarred Prc:si· dent and a wounded Pope:. The morning papers quote the Pope's assailant: "This is to demonstrate to the world the imperialistic crimes committed by the Soviet Union and the United States." The rhetoric sounds familiar. One wonders at what point strong convictions turn to madn<.·ss. 
The: world is sick, and Notre Dame is a special place. "What can we:, as graduates, do to change the world?" someone will ask over the weekend. Blessed are the peacemakers, says the Lord. "Alii want is for him to sec my armband," you say. "All I want is for him to know how some of us fed." Blessed are the peacemakers...who leave: off armbands that could stir up anger. "B.ut the: world is in terrible shape," you say. "As a Christian, I can't stand by and do nothing." Keeping the peace is not doing nothing. Not shouting Fire! in a crowded theatre can he heroic, when you can sec the flames with your own eye..~. The times arc too grave, too serious, too sick, to risk stirring up dissent in a public assembly,· where dissent would be a luxury, cheaply indulged in, and not a right at all. You have the rest of your life to serve: as Hosea or John the Baptist. But maybe you should do it in an orderly way, as Americans, or the: ugliness of what happens may betray you. 
"But I'm so sincere," you say, "and I hate what they are doing." Strong feeling can do many things: it can lead you to pray, to fast, to enter a monastic community, or to avoid a graduation; or it can cause trouble:, he­cause you art· trying to convert people who don't feel the need ofconversion. 
It is everyone's prayer that your strong feeling, clash· ing with somebody elsc:'s inalterable conviction, docs not, despite your best c:ffi>rts, bring germs ofthe world's great sickness to this special place and time at Notre Dame, where more than anywhere, we should give peace a chance. 
Friday, May 1 S, 1981 -page 11 

This week, as the seniors enjoy themselr•es, Senior /Jar has been more than crowded. (photo byjohn Macor). 

The Shop for Pappagallo University Center 6502 Grape Road­Mishawaka. IN Store Hours: 
on & Fri 10 to 8:30 Sat 10 to 5 

~-R-::::::e:::::--.staurant The Best in Aged ·steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations 
Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00P.M. Closed Sundctys & llolidctys 
Special bonus offer! Free 5250 bottle Samson &Delilah Shampoo 
with styled haircut. $12.50 
272-1168 . 
ReGIS HAIRSTYUSTS 
to Pen 's univ. park 
L_ 

The Observer 

Dave Duerson performed well in returning puntsfor the white in the annual Blue-Gold intersquad football game. (photo by john Macor) 

t~t~Gf:V-\N'i:. 
sc,-r\0\)..51\C salutes the following graduating students for their work on the 1980-81 EDITORIAL BOARD: 
Rosemary Abowd Mary Pigott 
·Michael Gazzerro Jm Sommers Daniel Moore 
Tina Terlaak 
Tom O'Toole
l Mark Traverso 
Andrew Zwerneman
t f 
' 
I 
Friday, May 15, 1981 -page 12 
Faust: just a super spring 
By PAUL MULLANEY 
Sports Writer 
It was not your typical spring for the Notre Dame football program. The arrival of Gerry Faust at the Fighting Irish helm captured more nationwide attention than most schools receive during the actual season. 
And the result, according to Faust: "just a super spring." 
If there was one word that could best describe the events of spring drills, it would be "enthusiasm." The infusion of fresh blood into the program, coupled with the excess talent that Dan Devine left behind, provided the foundation for the excitement. Then there was the recruiting season, in which Faust and his staff signed 26 Irish-to-be, 13 of them Parade magazine All­Americas ~ the consensus No. 1 recruiting effort in the country. 
And it didn't stop there. Faust actively took part in activities on campus and across the Michiana area. One night he would speak at two different residence halls, the next day he was visiting a senior citizen's home, and the following morning he would be giving the opening remarks at a mock student­run stock market. And that was during a slack week. The new coach even participated in the rough, tough campus Bookstore Basketball 
Special Graduation Offer! 
Follow Notre Dame football as Gerry Faust leads the squad in quest of the National Championship. A subscription to The Observer will keep you informed on the team's progress. We'll cover Faust's Fightin' Irish from the first hour of fall practice to the final down ofthe final game. Stay close to the action; sub­scribe to The Observer. 
Class of'81 Only! 
$12.50 for a one-year subscription. 
The Observer is offering a 50 per­cent discoun~to the class of'81 on a year's subscription. Keep in touch with events in the ND/SMC com­munity; keep in touch with your friends and your teams for one year 
for only $12.50. 
Make checks payable to and mail to: 
The Observer 
P.O. BoxQ South Bend, IN 46556 tournament -bad wheels and all. 
What resulted was an instant Jove affair between !'auStand the st~dent body, Faust and the community, and even Faust and his players. 
Perhaps nowhere was the en­thusiasm as evident as it was on the playing field. As administrative assis­tat'lt Joe Yonto, senior member of the Irish coaching staff, said, "This spring was the best start ofa football season we've had in 17 years." The positive media reports that came from the Irish camp helped to con­tinue the snowballing spring en­thusiasm that culminated with the presence of 35,675 spectators for the annual Blue-Gold scrimmage two weeks ago. 
Despite all of the positive reac­
tions of the spring, Faust spoke with 
humility when looking ahead to the 
fall season. "Playing a schedule like 
that would humble anybody," he 
said. After the Irish open their 
season at home September 12 
against LSU, they take to the road to 
meet Michigan and Purdue. Other 
tough opponents include Florida 
State and Southern Cal at Notre 
Dame Stadium, and Penn State and 
Miami (Fla.) on enemy turf. 
"With a schedule like that, we have to be about two or three deep at every position," Faust continued. "Thank God we only had one (serious) injury all spring." That in­jury was to defensive end Jeff Lueken, who has since undergone knee ligament surgery and remains a question mark for the fall. 
Otherwise, the Irish remained injury-free for the most part. Ron Mishler suffered a broken foot in the Blue-Gold game, but is expected to be ready to snap for Notre Dame's specialty teams when the season starts. Linebacker Bob Crable. defensive tackle Tim Marshall, and converted wingback Tony Hunter -three Irish expected to play key roles this season -missed nearly all of the spring workouts, but only for precautionary reasons. Crable's sore shoulder, Marshall's hyper­extended elbow, and Hunter's ten­der ankle don't worry Faust, but he thought it beneficial not to rush them back into action. 
"We just didn't want to take any 
chances  with  them,"  Faust  said.  
"This spring  we  were  more  con- 
See FAUST, page 11  

. Derby 
continuedfrom page 16 
tant -and our quarterback has to be a leader. All chree are qualified candidates. 
"But we want that distinction of a. first, a second an a third," Faust added. "We've got to pick a No. 1. We'll stay with him ifhe's got the hoi hand. If things don't go right, we don't lack confidence in putting. either ofthe other two in." 
Defensively, the Whites put on a stingy showing. After allowing Chris Stone to take the opening kickoff 97 yards (for the Green's only score), the No. 1 unit gave up only 18 net yards rushing for the day. Lineback­ers Mark Zavagnin andJoe Rudzinski shared defensive player of the game honors. 
"The defense has definitely im­proved from last year," offered Zavagnin, who was in on a dozen tackles. Rudzinski was credited with eight stops, including a pair for losses. "We play with more intensity now. We're more together as a unit -nobody thinks of himself as a standout. 
"I don't think people expected much out ofour line, but they were fantastic. The people with ex­perience -Joe Gramke, Pat Kramer -they've just done a super job with the freshmen." 
For the specialty squads, Harry Oliver was a perfect 5-for-5 on the PATs, while walk-on punter Brian Whelan posted a healthy 43-yard average -his longest a 58 yarder. 
"I liked the crispness in our hit­ting," said Faust. "And we had very few motion and offsides penalties ­that's a sign that we were mentally alert. The other thing that impressed me was the enthusiasm. I've had more fun with these kids this spring." 
Faust's hectic pace should slow down this summer, though. "I'm going to spend June and July with my family," he smiled, "but come August I'll start worrying." 
IRISH ITEMS -Besides Boushka, other.tiering Awards presented at halftime by the coaching staff went to: Tackle Tom Bock, Outstanding Offensive Lineman; Phil Carter, Out­standing Offensive Back; Joe Gramke, Outstanding Defensive Lineman; Mark Zavagnin, Outstand­ing Linebacker; Chris Brown, Out­standing Defensive Back; Special coaches awards were given to cen­ter Mark Fischer, nose tackle Bob Clasby, linebacker Tom Burger, and tailback Dave Swoboda. • 

~~-----~ 
------------------------------------------------~--------~-------------~--~-------·-----.: \
I I 
Sports Special -Top Ten Friday, May 15, 1981 -page 13 
The year'80-'81 in Notre Dame sports 


Picking Notn· Dame's l 0 higgt·st sports happenings for tlw Jl)HO·H l ~d10ol year is easier than it would be at mo~t schools. l't·rhaps wc'rt· spoiled. No. Wt' are spoiled. 
But what a year it \\as... 
lll'rt· thq· an· in chronological ordn. 
August 15 -Ikad football coach Dan Devine called 
hb tt·am together li>r a meeting in the Library Auditorium to annouJH'l' th;ll the Il)HO st"ason would he hb la~t at Notre Damt·. That night. Devine told the rest of the world when he appeared with Dave Dill's on ABC-T\' at halhinH· of an t·xihition game IKtwn·n the l'itt~hurgh Stel'ler~ and the Atlant•t Falcons. lkvine 11nished his six-season Irish career with a 'i)-16-1 record. f(>ur bowl appt·arances and a national cham­pionship. 
September .ZO -Tlwy ctlk<.l it a mirack. It was quickly duhhl'd the grt·atest game in Notre Dame l(lOt· ball history. \'isiting Michigan rallied from an t·arly 14-0 defi:cit to takt· a 2~-26 It-ad with -f I seconds rt·maining. l'reshnwn quarterback Blair Kid was summoned li>r the 11rst lime 10 kad the Irish on a last-ditch dli>rt. With 
0:0 1 showing on till' dock. the Irish .~-1 yards from tht· goal line and lkvint··~ long fkld goal man, Steve Cichy. out with a hack injury. littk llarry Olin·r trotted onto the lidd to ;lltunpt tht·longcst thrt't'·pointer oihis lift.·. lib previous he~t was just )6 yards. This one was from 'i 1. Tht· snap... Tim Koegd's hold... Tht· strong head wind stopped... The kil-k... The miracle was compit'te. As Jbe .Wicbigan IJaill' ht·adline read the the next day," Michigan 27. Notn· Dame 26, (;od )." 
October 10 -Evnyont· knew it was coming, hut everyone was still shockt·d hy the news. Edward \X'. "Moost·" Krause, the man who bridged generations of Notrt· Dame sports legends. announced he would be stepping down from the post of Athktic Director ef­fi:t·tivt· .January 1. ll)H I. "Afkr that," ht· said at a late­afh-rnoon press conkrence, "I will become emeritus." Krause is as synonymous with Notre Dame as Sorin. In the t;tll of 11))0, l'dward Walter Kraudunas arrived as a frc~hman at Notre Dame. Ill' was an All-American in fi>othall for Rocknt· and Anderson and in basketball for Kcogan. Moo!tt' coached Irish basketball for six years hdore hlToming Assistant Athktic Director in Jl)4H. and a year later. smTtTdl'll Frank Ll·ahy as A. D. 
Initial speculation a~ to a successor was confirmed fi111r days later wht·n the llnivnsity made it oflkial that l lniVt·rsity of Virginia Athll'tic Director Eugene Cor­rigan would ht· u>ming to Notre Dame. Known as one of tht· mort' progressive administrators in college ath­ktics, the 'i.l-yt·ar-old Corrigan served nipe years at Vir­ginia hdon· taking the Notre Dame job. Many pointed tn Corrigan's oVt"rwhl'irning success in expanding Vir­ginia's athletic programs and t;ll'ilities while complying with the tTonomk prt·ssures of Title IX, as reasons li>r his hiring. Also, Notre Damt· will he embarking on its fir~t-t·vcr athll'tk fund raising campaign. an<.I Corrigan is t'XIwctcd to play a major roll'. 
November IS -llundrt·ds of studt·nts made tht· 
trek to Birmingham l(>r the gridiron showdown with 
Alabama. The Irish had llH'I the Crimson Tide thrt·e 
time prcviouslr. Notre Dame had won all three by one-. 
two-and thrtT·point margins, respectively. It was a 
ddl:nsivt· gem. lkar Bryant's boys could do nothin~ot 
against tht· lrbh, and Dan lkvint:'s troops were only 
slightly more effective on offense. A Scott Zettek fumbll' 
nTovery at the:" Alabanw li>ur and a Phil Carter scoring 
<.liVl' moment~ later product·d tht· winning fireworks as 
Notre Dame remained unbeaten with the 7-0 win. 
November 22 -A surprisingly large crowd was on hand at tht· ACC as Notre Dame's women's basketball 
Photos 
by 
John Macor 
team opened its 1980-H I season against South Dakota. So what madl· a 67-60 Notre Dame loss so noteworthy? It was the first Irish sporting event in whic-h a ti:male on athktic scholarship competed. In the spring of I<JHO. the University announcnl that it would begin com­pliance with Title IX, and part of that would he a Divi­sion I women's basketball program with a full compliment of grants-in-aid. Freshmen Mary Joan Forbes and Jenny Klauke became the first two recipients. Forbes spent most of the st·ason on the bench with a knt:e injury, whik Klauke helped lead Mary Distanislao's first ream to a l 0-1 H record in its first 
year of Division I competition. 
• November 24 -Notre Dame finally confirmed what had been rumored li>r weeks -Cincinnati Moel­ler High School's head football coach, Gerry Faust, would succet:d Dan Devine. A press conference was held the next day to introduce both Faust and Corrigan. Till' 4'i-year-old Faust left his family behind in Cincin­nati to begin recruiting work for Notre Dame on December I. His wife and three children will join him within the next few weeks... Fuzzy" was an instant hit on campus. spt·aking in dorms, visiting classes, stopping by students' rooms li>r pizza and Pepsi, playing Bookstore Basketball. and more. 
February 22 -It seems to happen at least once t'Vel')' year. NBC-TV called Digger Phelps' Irish, "Tht: Giant Killers." As one newspaper put it, "The unbeaten and top-ranked Virginia Cavcliers karnt·d something that liCLA. San Fracisco. Marquette and DePaul had learned in years past. Don't mess with the mystique." Once again, sevnal hundred studt·nts drove to the Rost·mont "Sardine Can" Horizon outside Chicago to witness this nail-biting amtir. With II seconds remain­ing and the Irish down hr onl', Kelly Tripucka was called for traveling under his own basket. But a blanket defense on the ensuing inhounds play h>rced the Caveliers to turn the hall back to the Irish. After a mad scramble, Orlando Woolridge grabbed tht· hall and, off­balance. shot from 16 feet with just 0:02 showing on the dock. Notre Dame 'i7, Virginia 'i6. 
February 28 -The first human ever to do it was Rogt·r Bannister on May 6, ll)'i.J. The first Notre Dame runner ever to do it was Chuck Aragon. The Las Cruees, N.M., native also became the first New Mexican to break the four-minute barrier in the mile with his ):'il).92 clocking at the lllini Classic in Champagne, Ill. What made Aragon's ti:at even more amazing was the fact that he ran his first competitivt· mill' just five weeks earlier. 
February 28 -On tht· samt: day that Aragon sprinted into the limelight. the Irish hockey team skated inro the shadows of the Western Colkgiate Hockey As­sociation. Notre Dame had announced months earlier that the hockey team would he leaving the WCHA at season's eml for economic reasons. The Irish will play in the more geographically compact Central Collegiate !Iockey Association in 19H I-H2. But on this <.lay, Lefty Smith's team did something none ofhis teams had done in I I years ofWCHA competition. A 7-0 loss in the ACC at the hands of eventual national champion Wisconsin prevented the Irish from qualifying for the eight-team playoff field of the I (l-team league. The season-long "Breakaway" campaign proved costly and somewhat in­effective. The Il)H I-H2 season can be nothing hut a fresh start for the Notre Dame hockey team. 
March 31 -Many thought that the back page story of the April I Obsert'('r was an April Fools joke. Thirty Notre Dame rugby players knew it was no joking mat­ter. After an investigation into a complaint made by a Houston, Tex., resident, Dean of Students James Roemer informed this group ofstudents that be~· ause of their bel1avior during their spring trip. they would nt·n·r again play rugby for a "Notre Dame group." The athletic department later cancded the team's ll)H I spring season. The thirty admitted to participating in a nude "elephant walk" at Griffs, a public bar, something they said had been going on li>r some time. The story hit the AP wire three weeks later and quickly spread across the country. appearing in almost every major paper in the nation. 




The Michigan Miracle 

~--~ ~ ~-~----~~--------~----------------------------~­
The Observer Friday, May 15, 1981 -page 14 
Congratulations Class of tSil 

rsaoos:~~:c:,c:.~ II
REG.$14NOW$10 Just oring in tnls coupon and let us perform for you. I
I ~ 
Command J•erformanee 1
I 
HAIRSTYWfOR JHE lOOfCS 111ATGITIHElOOfCS 
1111 University Center 6502 Grape Rd·I .Mishawaka, IN 219 277-6464 valid until may 31. 1981 
After four years 
ND, you're not so bad 
Go back, if you will, almost four years. Go back to a hot, sunny September afternoon. Back to a time when Emil still was a horrifying thought and most of today's business majors were in engineering or pre-med. 
When we came in as freshmen, we were greeted by the best football team in the country. That's what the upperclassmen said, that's what our parents said. Even the national magazines were saying it. We could hardly wait for our first home game as a member ofthe revered Notre Dame student body. 
With the first three games on the road, though, we wouldn't have much choice. The opener was in Pitts­burgh, against the defending national champions. The Panthers had embarrassed Notre Dame a year ago, so we had heard a lot of"We owe you one." 
It wasn't pretty, but the Irish did it. Senior defensive end Willie Fry took things into his own hands and out of Pitt star quarterback Matt Cavanaugh's by sacking Cavanaugh and breaking his wrist. With Cavanaugh out ofthe lineup, the Irish sputtered to a 19-9 win. 
Just first game jitters, everybody said. Don't worry, Mississippi was next. The Rebels wouldn't even be a good match for Saint Mary's. 
Ouch. 
There isn't much use dwelling on such a sore subject, one that even the space of four years has done little to heal. Ole Miss stunned an overconfident Irish team, 20­13, and the campus rocked with outrage. 
Dump Devine banners hung from every dorm, and Rusty Lisch became a four-letter word. As the frustrated students stared in disbeliefat television screens, watch­ing the final seconds tick off, enough obscenities flew through the air to curl Fr. Hesburgh's hair. 
Those idiots, thosejerks! How could they? How dare: they? 
Yet the very next week, those idiots dared again. On­ly a Joe Montana miracle pushed those jerks past Purdue and on toward a national championship. 
Many of us sat in our dorm rooms, discussing at length the relative shortcomings of Dan Devine and Rusty Lisch, and finally wondering -just what in the hell was wrong? 
And oh, how we dreaded going home to the taunts and jeers of high school classmates. Notre Dame -ha! They couldn't even beat Mississippi! , 
Even though these past four years perhaps have been 

Craig Chvol Sports Writer 
unparalleled in Notre Dame sports lore, there were other similiar moments. Such as in 1979, when the Notre Dame football team \'liaS humiliated by Tennessee and Clemson on back-to-back weekends. Or last spring, when a pumped-up Missouri squad stunned an over­confident Irish basketball team. 
The thoughts were the same as we shouted at our televisions. · 
Those idiots, thosejerks! How could they? How dare they? 
Things are going to be a little bit different now. As we scatter across the country, starting new jobs, entering new schools, we'll no longer have roommates and sec· tionmates to share our frustrations. 
Gerry Faust may be able to walk on water, but the first time one ofhis teams takes a dive, look out. Co-workem and fellow students will have a field day at Notre Dame's expense. It won't make a bit ·ofdifference ifthe tormen­tors graduated from Northwestern, where football is a non-contact sport, or from Southern Cal, where academics are optional. Everybody has two favorit·~ teams -theirs and whoever is playing Notre Dame. 
For four years, all that talk about Notre Dame being a family sounded so Pollyana, so hokey. But now, it begins to make sense. 
Sitting in a cinderblock cell on the North Quad, ran-. ting and raving at an inanimate television sueen isn't much different from belittling your kid brother in th<lt condescending tone. And what's so bad about that? 
But just let somebody else try. 
Those idiots, thosejerks! How could they? How dar~ they? 
Once in a while, maybe so. But remember, they're our idiots, our jerks. And more often than not, it will be the Alabama fans or the Virginia fans, crying in disbelief. 
Those idiots, thosejerks! How could they? How dm·e they? 
At Indianapolis 
Gurney's Chevyruns tough 
tance of a unique ground effects
BY MIKE HARRIS 
wind tunnel in Gurneys shop, al­
APSports Writer 
ready is the fastest stock block­powered vehicle in Indy history.
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) There 
will be a few eyebrows raised if Dan 
Gurney's Chevrolet-powered Eagle 
winds up starting from the front row 
in the May 24 Indianapolis 500. 
But one person who won't be surprised at all is John Ward, the young mechanical engineer who designed the low-slung Indy car.

Travel United Limo To/From Chica~o O'Hare Airport 
One Wa~ Fare.....$22.00 
Deliver to your airline at O'Hare Airport
Round Trip..........$39.00 
O'Hare pick-up at Lower Level Carson Restaurant 
Save over 5\J% on Round Trip To and From O'Hare 
New Schedule: 
NOW LEAVING. ND BUS SHELTER 
6 TIMES A DAY 
J,,,, '' Ill/<' llu111 I 1unl u/11 111111 til IIIIi! ·u 11111 1 11' r!1 :•I' · 

l'lt·aw mal.t· n·wnaliun' ~~hour' in ;uhann· · * ( all for rt'<·n alion' for 
\'1.. ahuul 'Pl't·ialrhariH ralt·' Pirk-up alllolida' Inn.~ 11-.harl 
l'it-k-up alllolida' Inn. \1irhii!;JII (it'
Call United Limo, Inc. (219)255-3068 
OFFICE, Bittersweet &McKinley, Big Bear Restaurant, Town &Country Center, Notre Dame Bus Sheller, Michiana Regional Airport 
Veteran Mike Mosley, who also has been on hand throughout the development of this car, drove the Eagle to a top lap of 197.455 mph during Wednesday's practice ses­sion. Although both Rick Mears and Danny Ongais have reached 200 mph this week, the 197-plus put the Eagle among the handful ofcars still holding a chance to take the pole position-away from A.]. Foyt, who had a four-lap qualifying average of 
196.087 mph in last Saturday's rain­abbreviated time trials. 
Most of the top cars on the Indy circuit still use the powerful turboc­harged Cosworth-DFX engines. Those English-built engines have proven to be strong and reliable. but the stock block may be the power plant ofthe future in the sport. 
The U.S. Auto Club already has an­nounced that the Cosworths will be banned for next year's Indy 500 
.-:.···········-·················...~1
•DON'T GRAB THE FIRST OPENING • : THAT COMES ALONG : 
: .Look around for an opportunity that makes full: 
:use of your acquired skills. If you look in the  :  
:right place, you won't have to look long. We • have openings in hundreds of specialties that. - : •.  
:call for someone with your background.  :  
:  Specialties l.ike engineering, communication,  :  
:  music, language, business & construction.  :  
•:your college time means we can give you  •:  
: promotions from the start. Plus advanced  :  

:training in your field. Plus several ways to pay : : some of your college bills. We can tailor our : 
:programs to fit your needs. : : Call Army Opportunities Sgt. Olmstead : : 259-0311 : : Army--Be All You Can Be. : 
.................................. •
~.,
• 
r-------------------------·-­
Notre Dame 1980 tri-captain Tom Gibbons, 
hypassnl in last month's NFL collegiate draft, has signed a free agent nmtract with the Denver Broncos. Gibbons, an academic All-America sekction at free safety for the Irish last season, was invited to the Broncos rookk camp last week, and was offered a contrad at thl· conclusion oftht· session. lle'll report to training camp in july.-The 
()b.WrtJ('T' 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team is in 
Detroit this weekend for the AlAW Division II Region V tournament, beginning today at Wayne State University. The Irish qualified for the tournament hy capturing the Indiana AlAW Division II title last fall. The top two teams in the six-team regional field will advance to the AIAW Division II national championships in Charleston, S.C., june 10­
13. -The Obsen,er 
The Notre Dame track teamwill return to action tomorrow afternoon at the Ann Arbor Relays in Ann Arbor, Mich. Coach joe Piant·'s squad has been idle since its May I dual meet loss to Eastern Michigan. A seven-man contingent will represent the Irish in Ann Arbor, while most of the team rests up for the IC4A's in Philadel­phia (May 23·24 ). Notre Dame will be repesented by freshman Andy Dillon and sophomore jim Moyar in the 1500-meter run, senior Dave lkrnards in the II 0-meter high hurdles, junior Mike Noland in the pole vault, junior Paul Doyle in the long jump and pole vault, and juniors Jacques Eady and Ron Hyde in the 400-meter dash. Eady and Hyde will also team with junior jim Christian and sophomore Steve Dziabis in the 4x400-meter relay. With the exception of Bernards, Plane's seniors will remain on campus for the pre-commencement proceedings this weekend, with all-American Chuck Aragon, Notre Dame's first sub-four-minute miler, being the most notable absc:ntee. -The Observer 
quarterbacks will be at the center ofattention when practice begins again in August. Solidperformances by the three top candidates this spring make Coach Faust's selection ofhis team's leader more difficult. See related story on page 16. (photo byjohn Macor) 
CAMPUS ·•ll!;;# 
NON-VARSITY ATHLETICS 
CHAMPIONS Men's Foolball Sl. Edward Women's Foolball Breen-Phillips Tennis (Men. open) Jell Wolf 
(Novice) BobW1cke (Women) E1leen Rakochy (Grad-Fac) Armanda Abney (MIXed Doubles) Bersy Klug & Ken! Srock­
elman 16 in. Sol!ball (Fall) King's Men Co-Ree Sol! ball (Fall) Ghelto Goers Men·s Soccer (Fall) Alumni Women's Soccer (Fall) Breen·Phlllips Cross Coun1ry Mornssey Six-Mile Run (Men) Pal Wagner 
(Women) Demse Harnnglon (Facully) Ken Burns (Grad) Tom Burns 
Men's Volleyball Alumni I Women's Volleyball Breen-Phllllps Club Baskelball Obud Grad Baskelball Legal Supremes Co-Ree Basketball Lusl Bombs Grad-Fac Tennis Armanda Abney Racquetball (Men) Frank Guilfoyle 
(Women) Marrha Gallagher (Women's Doublos) Gallagher & Hariman (Men's Doubles) Meak1n & Campball (M1xed Doubles) Meakin & Dranclk (Men'sOpen) Schaeller 
Ouldoor Track (Sprmg)Aiumni Indoor Track (Spring) Dillon Hockey Dillon Golf Ken Fisher (1) Kevin 
Ca~rns (2) Men·s Soccer (Spring) Dillon Women's Soccer (Spnng) Lyons Tennis (Spnng) Alumni 161n. Sol!ball (Spnng) The Sranks-F1sher Hall Women's Sol1ball (Spring) Farley Grad Sol1ball (Spnng) Keon's Heroes Baseball Zahml Wreslllng Velter. Manon. Schlerl. 
Pnmlch, Turgeon. Baxley. Duer, Masi 
Classifieds 
[ NOTICEO 
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS RINGS $20·$85 OR MORE. WE MAKE HOUSE CALLS. 255·2402 
NEEDED: I n..d 1111 apartment-milia for the aummar. I have a very nice, two bedroom, well-furnlahed, pool, air conclltlonlnil, Ill Portage Place Apart­mente, comer or Portage and Cleveland on major bua linea. 8130 par month. Call277-4421. 
I FOR RENT J 
House tor rent summer and-or nex1 achool year. Furn. gd end.. close to campua renl nego!lable. Call287·5361 al1er8 p m. 
Sept 1 thru May 31 ea~h year 20 ,;u;~. from NO on beau!1ful Eagle lakefront Totally furniShed 3-bedroom home Including all appliances. Home and furnlahlnga In ucellenl condl1ion. Preler no more lhan lhree responSible grad aludenta. $375 per month. Call John Melvan 312·374-7846 after 8 p.m. for local appointment. 
;:;;;--h~·~-~~··N·~i;.;-~;;;;··A:;;;···;~; 
aummer actlool. Call Ron Olton 272­SS70. 
a ta~·~itY'~8m~; ~" leave h~~--~·ho·~ lor renl; !hree bedroom,two care garage at granger: arrangemenlo can be made to houae alt also; call 277­4248 
ARE YOU RETURNING IN THE FA~? Aece~ a month'a rent free-a high­quality arereo or color TV by raglltar­'"g now. SUN ApPLIANCES & TELEVI­SION. 291·5112 
3-bedroom. lanced-In backyard, lurnllhed or unlurnllhed Available now, located hall m11e from N.D. Call 277 ·0274 for more Info. 
WANTED 
NEED AIDE to M1am1·Ft Lauderdale AFTER GRADUATION lor 1 or 2 people Call John H1gg1na at 8553 or t 715 and leave a message 
Need nde lor rwo lo Forr Lauderdale.Fia aller fmals W1ll share uaual Call Tom 6815 
need nder to calllorma LA area leavmg May 26 call 232 7508 belween 5 and 7 PM 
NEEDED: I need an apartment-meta for the aummer. I have avary nice two­bedroom, well furnlehed, air con­dHionlng, pool, at Portage Place Apartment• on Portage Av. and Cleveland Ad. $130 par month. Call 277-4421. 
NEEDED RIDERS TO LOS ANGELES OR VICINITY. LEAVING THIS MON· DAY OR THEREABOUTS CALL 6864. ASK FOR GRASS 
NEED AIDE TO NYC AREA (Just E.a&1 of Tapptn lee Bfldll'! ) Will share uusual Can leave any11me beg1n1ng May 17 Call MlkP-1795 
'~F~O,.,..,.R_S==-A~LE~I 
1 ta1p1g 
LAND CONTRACT 111'. $8000 down 
RIVER COMMONS ranch, 3 bedrooms, 
2 bath cenlral A-C. basemen!, 2 car 
garage. $69.500277-7412. 
............ 
TICKETS 
t dommai~d Joe .<.;;,~~·~ t;iijj; ~~ho~i baskelballeam.ll you don't balleve me, or II you do, and have any graduallon lllckets call Ken rat 232·0921 
oEsPERAretv··~~d··3··;,;·.t··aii:4i:i 
TICKETS. Please call277-8757. 
~ij;i.i ~~~d·s·ii~~~~ ii~~~iii·p~ySK~rhy 
6841 
.................................... I LOVE YOU JODIEI WILL PAY MAX. BUX FOR GAAD.TIX CALL Z at x6740 OA234-0780 
~iii'j;;v''Bio'auci<s''i~;·GRAo·uA.riOf.i 
TICKETS IF you need monay call Rick AT 1932 
NHd jult ONE gradualion ticket. Will pay. II you can help me. call Mary at 21105. Thenka 
!PERSONALS] 
COPPELIA TONIGHT O'LAUGHLIN AUD. 8PM 
TOM McCARTHY & DAN CONNORS: You've made my first aemesler as a domer awesome I I'll miss you men next tall. LOVE & LUCK ALWAYS,alittle bul­lercup. 
Rick Mahoney Is a ma1or de1!y. Thanks for alllhe help in gelling the fOb, and all !he ZA's. Good luck In your new fOb, and come see us some 11me. (ROAD TRIPI) You were such a grear AA, who can replace you? (Teddy. of course!) Enroy 111e. live long and prosper. 
Tom .......................... GRADUATION: Sue Powers. Erin O'Conner. Donna. J1m Aaal. Laura Madland. Rick Mahoney. Ken Slack. Kalhy Kelly. Molly Kuhn, Terry Hmz. Kalhy Keegan, L1sa Obry. Ellen Cline. Congra!ulal1ona and Good Luck '" all you do We'll m1ssyoul Keep 1n !ouch. love. Marcia & D1ane 
BOBBY. THOM, AN'i:lTIM 'CONGAATS TO THE BEST GUYS IN FISHER GOOD LUCK FOR ALWAYS. VISIT US IN '62. LOVE ALWAYS MAUREEN, LESLIE. AND CONNIE THE 'GEECH" SOCIETY 
Atck Mahoney--where have you been all week? (W1nk. w1nk. nudge, nudge) 
Happy B~rlhday, N~ai Sorry you have lo celebrale 11 here bul we'll make !he basi of It 
Anne 
Mom Dad. Uncle SniPPY I hope you en1oy lho weekend ThaNks lor every­lhlng 
Dear Nancy, Take good care of yourself this sum­mer. Plays in NYC. yes? Will calL Waller 
Madonna Rose. 
Thank you lor baing a wonderful room male but mosl ol all a wonderful friend I love you. 
Sus1e 
Ba!h "Dude" Makens. Bernadelte "Cups wilh Handles" Calarco. Margie ··soy Scout" Qumn: 
To my wonderful Business Club Of· licers -It has really been a wild and crazy year, certainly one I'll never lor­gel. Thanks lor all your hard work. Maybe I'll send you all a copy of the "bare chest" picture I 
love, Cmdy Egghead 
+~~ii'ii;~p;;~.;k.i·lliii;~·;~·~~;:iio~dbv;; 
to but can't lor lack olspace-
SMC chicks and Domer friends alike, you are all wonderful and I wish you !he bear ol luck al1er graduallon. Keep In touch and don'! forget me our in the wilda of Oregon! 
Love. Cindy Jones 
M~d·~~~~-R~;·~~d·s~·~~~·e·i~·~·p~;;;p·:· 
You two have been the bes1 naigh­boraever-thank you lor a greal year II Love you bolh, Cynthia Anna 
j~:·············"""'''""'"''"'""'''""''' ....... 
Sorry we were such arrangers this year. U's baen gi'Ht knowing you-keep in touch and fake care. Thanks lor all !he wonderlul memonesl 
Love, Lynne 
P.S. CONGRATULATIONS! 
re;;y·and·c-ha(;:----.................. 
Happy graduation to my lavorile en­gmeers!IIKnock 'em dead. bul don't let your tonsils get llabby .. 
Love. Lynne 
P.S. Who gels cuslody of Mark (HA HA) next year? 
Schmitzle, 
Thanks a lot for pulling up with me. The las! two years were great ones, and I'll never forget them. Oh. how 'bout a 12-pack on each of nex1 year's Bears­Packers games? 
PBM 
Jana . 
It's been greal rooming wilh you !hiS year -lhrough th1ck and lhrough thin. Thanks lor ba1ng such a gr!lal fnendl (Especially when I was so "su1c1dal"­ha, ha.) Good luck w11h !he Polish sial­lion th1s summer, but remember: men 
are  expendable!  Have a  wonderful  
summer and wrtte  often  
Love yal  
Me  

Hey Paul Mullaneylll Here IS the only personal you'll ever gel from me. so: Happy Birlhdayl. con­gralulaiiOns. ere. Good luck always (and aliihal other 1r11e slull .) ll's been greal workmg w1!h you I 
Love, Your FAVORITE news editor 
Tom Maclennan. Don 1 ever slop c~rculatmg'!! (or we'll erase your labels .... ) 
The' people who are aller you To lhe6-BHarners, 
Thanks lor greal limes. Keep in 
!ouch. but more importantly, slay in 
conlrol. 
Paul 
................................................................ 
THIS IS SHIRLEY'S LAST PERSONAL OF THE 80-81 SC F . ,A 005(1) NFS . K YOU SO MUCH FOR BEING SO KIND, SWEET. HAVING OUR PAYCHECKS. AND MOST OF ALL, FOR BEING SO EVEN-TEMPERED. IF I HAVE ANY BRAIN CELLS LEFT AFTER FINALS, I SHALL MISS YOU. 
OEAR'"MiTCH-."·~-..~-~~~~ Bar, ·~~~: Fame, Beaux Arts, white wine, Humphrey Bogar! and Mane An­tomene. bar-hopping. 5:00 In !he morning... What can I say 7 ll's been wonderful IIIThanks lor making !he 
end of this year so fantaatlc. 
Love and k1ssea. 
llza 
L.O.M.L. HEY BUDDY · THANKS FOR TWO GREAT YEARS ,I APPRECIATE IT Ill 1436& 7 B.P. OH, I forgo11o tell you ... good luck al­ways. 
aooosv'e'N<ir'Re·c;;;·i.ie::Goo·o·Fiio: 
DANCE 
THAiiii<s'i=Oi:i'rj:iii.ME.M"oi:iiE·s····---···· I DIRECT THIS PERSONAL TO MY PARENTS, FAMILY. Fl'IIENDS AND EVERYONE WHO HELPED MAKE THIS GRADUATION BECOME A REALITY FOA ME. A SPECIAL THANKS TO ALL OF THE FACULTY AND STAFF OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ACCOUNTANCY FOR THE HELP AND ENCOURAGE­MENT WHICH ALLOWED ME TO MAKE THIS DAY POSSIBLE. AND. IN CLOSING, A SPECIAL THANKS TO THE MAIDS. JANITORS, AND OTHER. SOMETIMES FORGOTTEN, WORKERS WHO TAUELY MAKE N.D. SUCH A SPECIAL PLACE. TO THE ENTIRE FAMILY OF NOTRE DAME. I WILL CLOSE WITH A BOB HOPE QUOTE, "THANKS FOR THE MEMORIES". THANK YOU. SINCERELY YOURS, DALE A. MERTEN 
Lynne-Have a great summer, and remember. !here are worse things !han domg graduation notices -like TYPING (ugh). From one who does nol read lhese. or pul them in eilher. (I made !he bus) 
ATTN. TIM RYAN al1as PELE ... R~~·j~ en1oyed see1ng you & !he res! of !he CALIFORNIA CONNECTION. II was a great soccer gamell See you a! !he World Cup! Love. !he CONN. CONNEC­TION. 
Hay Mike Zual You surv1ved lwo years w1th me, you're ready lor anythtng now II 
CongralulaiiOns. Chuck 
DEAR MR. BAUMER THANK YOU FOR YOUR TA'X ASSIS· TANCE. THE OBSERVER 
HEY LEO DUGGAN. WE HAD A GREAT TIME DURING SENIOR WEEKII SORRY YOU WEREN'T HERE TO JOIN US. 
SIGNED. YOUR DISGUSTED FRIENDS 
QUESTION. HOW FAA WILL LEO GO FOR SEX? ANSWER: 8 HOURS 
All class!ltf'd Jets musr bP. recen.·ec1 bv 4 45 p m twl") t1avs P'"'' to the 1S'ittP 111 wht..:h th•• 1d 1'i n~n TOP Observer off•ce will o:\C~t>ilt ct.:tsstf•eds Moncl.lv !hm1J4h Fr1rl,"'1 1(l 00 ·' m 10 5 00 p m All ct&S!ttfll.!dS ""1USt bt• Prt'-Hclld ,., "••r ,~ fh'rson t1r u,rO••gt1 rhe m.HI 
BRUCE I See ya in the tall. when I will once again anlagonize you. Don'1 work too hard !his summer I 
Yours in perlecllon. The ENE 
P.S. II you need a good headline.. 
No one antagon•zes me an·d·~-~~~~~----· Bruce 
Dear Mr. ME, 
11's been a reallrlp working wilh you. dig? (Only kidding.) Seriously. thanks for everything. (Just lhlnk, If baby seals could ba aborted. we wouldn't need gun con1rol lor male chauvinists...) Have agreat summer wherever you are, and take good care of Maxi 
Love. Ms. ENE 
Art: 
You wa the epilome ola Notre Dame Security officer should be: obnoxious. flip, snide. and brulal. Without you. Darby's will never be I he same-II will be better. We commend your under· cover work (incogneQrO is very chic.) The Mannes are looking lor a lew good men. We hear 1hey're s!lll looking. Good luck and all thai sentimental stuff. 
For a fascist you're raally pretly loveable. T11a Art Ptlllller ..,_,. Clull 
Hi!JIP Thomas & Kalie Frank&Dawn Darby 
···;:;;··aii'i·;;;;;;;·;i;;;-;i;;-;e·ii·i·i;;;;;-ih:ft 
and hearts wllh this ona clown, I wtsh mirth and joy, maybe even a lew tears (we're human a tier all, every last one of ua.) An insp~red (from /nap/rare) semesler where hope led to love. faith to lite, vision to action. Weak words can nol unload the aoul, nor begin aum­ming up our stories. Perhaps I am to live out my love and apprec•ahon lor y'all, sharing your lives wlfh those I meal In !he turure. Belive me. !hough. 
when I promise to remember each •• one, and all as one. Especially: Will. Liza, Merideth. Beth. Steve, John, Wil­cox. Pooch & Ronald, Rosh, H1ggs. Beegs. Maureen (Sm1lel), Fllz. Mary Ann R., Judith Ann, Dr. Weaver. Oh yes. and Kate. 
ahhhhhhhllllllllllllllll 
Watch oul world..Par Byrnes Is com· mg with his NAPALM. (This message paid for by !he remaining membar of U.N.I.C.) 
.............................................. . MAC: !hank you lor !he card and lovely w1shes1 Besl of luck next year. 
Another Ren lttler 
a:;;~~ ~~~k·p~~ii;;·~~~PPY ~~;;;~i;;;;8&. 
buleach day I love you a lillie b1t more Love, and see you Oct10, Me 
MOM & DAD; THANK YOUi YOUR KID. THE GRADUATE 
To Lel1y: Thanx 1or sellmg up the While Sox !rip--It's a new Observer tradlllon. The Slall 
To iiie one and only ci~.
Bahamas 
~~~ff:have to open our own branches nexl year, bul we'll gel loge! her'" !he Bahamas lor a clue conven!IOn 
Anne 
Thai's all !here IS, and there am'l no more One who knows 
MOM & DAD. THANKS FOR ALL OF THE SUPPORT. FINANCIAL AS WELL AS MORAL. I NEVER WOULD HAVE MADE IT THROUGH HERE WITHOUT YOU TWO I THINK I TURNED OUT OK SO STOP WORRYING I LOVE YOU BOTH. BUT PLEASE MOM. NO CRYING AT COMMENCEMENT. SOMEDAY WHEN I'M RICH I'LL SEND YOU TWO TO HAWAII OR BUY YOU A CONDO IN ACAPULCO OR SOME· THING LIKE THAT GOTTA GO NOW .THIS PERSONAL WILL PROBABLY LEAVE ME BROKE. BUT WHAT ELSE IS NEW? LOVE, SON No.2 
(THAT'S OUT OF 811) 
Dirt: 
No way did we spend 10 hours ar AI· bert's, the L .. etc No way did we anve to Cleveland lo rescue !he Sox. No way did Jel1ers llniSh 61h in UMOC. No way did we sing thai version ol'·Hall. Hall to M1ch1gan.. " al an Observer party. No way did I pel the beld Italian on !he head a! an office party. 
You know we d1dl 
Oh well, whether or not you pull a Frank. I'm sure we'll see plenly ol you nexl year. We befler Good luck. etc.. and keep In !ouch. And rememb41r, you only pimp your friends! 
Pudge 
Brian: 
How 'bout Jeffertlinllhing 81h? How 'boul that road trip to Ann Arbor? How 'bout !he office and Observer partieS? And how 'bout Enterpnse radiO p1Ck1ng up one of the besl7 
You know they did Good luck. yea. yea. yea. Orta 
Lyn~e. i·;;~~j;8'i'C.r ~~~g l~ch II ~~~· 
derful person. You're sweet 
Have • good summer--keep tn touch II you have any 1deas or plans . .f'rosh orlenta11on 111ue Sal. Augual 22. 
John McGrsl~ 
Congratulations M1ke O'Neill Besl wishes to !he cutes! exp1d1!er In !he business Your Secret Admirer 
SCOOP. TURNABOUT IS FAIR PLAY SO HERE'S A PERSONAL TO YOU. HAVE A GREAT LIFE -AT LEAST UNTIL I SEE YOU AGAIN KEEP UP WITH YOUR KOOBING -MAYBE WE CAN HAVE AN INTENSE SESSION WHEN YOU RETURN 
LOVE. THE GODDESS OF PROCREATION 
MMB Congrars,laudals and plada!a of various ktnd& Start the Great Amencan Novel now A1t1cs are 1n shor1 supply. And 11 you wear green plaid pants 10 Sen tor Bar next year, the love affair t& off MJM 
Marybalh. lhanks for alithe tun ttmes we·ve ex­penenced lhese cfcasl lwo and • half 
~·e~sO~I~~~s s:~ ~;es ~~r!~~~~o~:d 1 ~ 
great t1me Anne 
1w1sh I wasn 'f readmg fhls and was at· ready home Ryan 
When we gel lo Ulsh. you'll w1sh you were here reeding !h1s. Bruce (aka The Dflver) 
Bruce. thanks lor puttmg tha u 1n h..burghl and !hanks for all I he work.. I he fun 
!im~s. and the crazy programs! 
-~--~----­

\ 
Friday, May 15, 1981 -page 16 
After 51st classic 
) 
Quarterback derby: dead heat 
By KELLY SULLIVAN  spot.  Grooms, who utilized the dump pass  
Sports Writer  "They  all  looked  good,  didn't  over the middle most of the after­ 
they?" smiled an enthused Faust af­ noon.  
Notre  Dame coach Gerry Faust  ter seeing the No.  1 White squad  "We're  told  to  look  for  our  
!' t r,  found out he's got plenty of people to throw to next fall, but just who'll be doing all the throwing remains a question mark. The 51st annual Blue-Gold game  defeat the No. 2 Greens, 48-7. ''I'm very pleased. The coaching staff did an excellent job this spring, and the kids all had great attitudes. We just have to come back and get better in  primary and then secondary receivers," he continued, "and I was able to hit the release man quite a bit against a secondary that's one of the best in the country."  
I I  marked a great day for the entire receiving corps, while the quarter­ the fall." Mike Boushka, named the game's  Grooms, who admitted to starting out a little slow this spring,  
backs proved their race is far from  most  valuable  offensive  player,  squelched the rumor that he plans to  
r  over.  Sophomore-to-be  Scott  hauled in six catches for 1 0 1 yards  transfer next fall.  
r  Grooms came away with some nice  to le:td all receivers. On at least three  "If I'm not the starter for the LSU  
I  statistics to join Blair Kiel and Tim  occasions, the Wichita, Kan., native  game,  I  still  feel  that  sometime  
I  Koegel in contention for  the  top  grabbed the ball on diving stretches,  during the year I'll get my chance,"  
I  so it wasn't surprising to see the senior-to-be awarded a Hering  he related. "Things have started to come around for me, and I think I've  
'  Dallessio  medal for an outstanding spring per­formance. "Mike's been impressive all  regained my confidence. Being in the running for the No. 1 position is going to help me come back mental­ 
•restgns  spring," remarked Faust. "Moving him from flanker has really paid off." "I definitely got discouraged, but I  ly." Faust thinks the quarterback battle is a healthy situation for all  
as A.D.  never lost my confidence," said Boushka about his three years on the bench. "I knew I could do the job ifl  three players -"It'll make them work harder," he said. But he wants a starter tapped as soon as possible  
got the chance.  next season.  
"Actually, it  was pretty easy for  "We like to throw-that's impor- 
By MARY AGNES CAREY Saint Mary's Executive Editor  me, because all the quarterbacks threw exceptionally well. It's tough to decide who should start -they all got the ball to me."  See DERBY, page 12  Although BlairKiel made a good showing in the Blue-Goldgame, the Irish quarterback situation is still up in the air as both Kiel and Koegel are vyingfor theposition. (photo byjohn Macor)  
Jerry Dallessio,  director of ath­ The quarterbacks found plenty of  
letics and recreation at Saint Mary's  other targets,  as  passing plays  ac­ 
since 1979, will resign his position August 1. Dallessio, however, will continue into his third year as bas­ketball coach.  counted for over 50 percent ( 61 passes, 57 runs) of the day's of­fensive output. Besides Boushka's efforts, split  Unhappy Kleine departsND  
"I need a change," Dallessio said,  end  Dave  Condeni  snared  three  
"I feel like I've been running on 'fast forward' for two years. It's been hard to build two things (the entire Saint Mary's athletic program and specifi­cally the basketball team) and one or  passes for 60 yards. Greg Bell had four for 43 yards. For the Greens, John Mosley had eight catches, total­ing 54 yards. "We wanted to be able to name a  Joe Kleine, a 6-11, 240-pound freshman center on Digger Phelps' 2 3-6 1980-81 basketball squad, has informe.O the Irish coaching staff that he will not  
the other has to be solid." Dallessio stated that the Saint Mary's program has "come a long way in two years," with its tennis, softball and basketball teams placing second, second and third, respectively, in Northern Indiana Division III competition.  No. 1 quarterback at the end of spring," explained Faust. "But I don't know ifwe can do that after today." Kiel and Koegel both enjoyed a productive afternoon. Each en­gineered two scoring drives high­lighted by some firte passing. Kiel was five-of-nine for 75 yards; and  return to Notre Dame. The prep all-American, who has returned to his home in Slater, Mo., averaged 10 minutes a game while averaging 2.6 points and 2.4 rebounds. Kleine, who played in all 29 Irish games last season and  
He also explained that intramural sports have improved as well. "The  Koegel six-of-11 for 106 yards. But Grooms came away with the best  started 11 of those contests, split playing time at the post with  
initial  goal  was  to  upgrade  the  numbers.  sophomore Tim Andree. The two  
program from its 1978-1979 level of five sports, and the current level stands at over 21 programs. We've more than succeeded," he stated. "I feel other schools arc beginning  After connecting on 11 of 1 7 passes for 72 yards with the Green squad, the Columbus, Ohio, native joined the first team Whites in the fourth quarter, directing three  big men played largely a defensive role in the Notre Dame offense. "I have no idea where I can go or play," said Kleine in an inter­ 
to respect us athletically," Dallessio said. "This year we've had more let­ touchdown drives, and finishing the day with 148 yards in the air.  view with Ken Klinek of the South Bend Tribune. "It isn't a  
ters and phone calls from parents  "We felt Scott was just a little be­ happy situation for  me.  But the  
and  coaches  interested  in  our  hind Kiel and Koegel, but he's really  situation at Notre Dame didn't  
program."  come  on  these  last week  or  so,"  seem right for me.  
Dallessio hopes to find  a  job in  noted Faust. "He did a real fine job  "I think it was in my best inter­ 
counseling to accompany his coach­ for us today."  est to do what I did."  
ing duties. He said his replacement will probably not be announced un­ "I feel that reading the defens<ts is one of my strenths, and today I took  Head Coach Digger Phelps was unavailable for comment.  
til July.  what  they  gave  me,"  explained  
 

eFighting Irish in 
Don't miss out on all the action! 
Subscribe to The Observer. Published Monday through Friday during the academic year, The Observer will inform you ofcampus and local events, entertain you witb editorials and features, and satisfyyou with the latest athletic news. 
justfill out the subscription form below and mail it, with remit­tance, andyou can have The Observet· delivered to your home. 
.................-----------··
Make check payable to: 
The Observer I 
and mail to: 
P.O.BoxQ 1 Notre Dame, IN 46556 I 
Name.........................................-............................................................................... . 
I 
Address.................................................................................................................... . 
I 
I
City ................................................. State............................... Zip .......................... . 
I 
I 
I 





