r
.Tyson-page 3 ' 

VOL. XV, NO. 93 an indt>pendem srudenr newspaper serving norre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1981 

Explosion mars papal visit 
KARACHI, Pakistan (AP)-An explosive device went off at Karachi's national stadium packed with 100,000 people yesterday, minutes before Pope John Paul II arrived to celebrate a Mass. Police said it was a bomb and that it killed che man who carried it and serious­ly injured his two accomplices. 

There was no ilidi!:ation the pope was told of the explosion, which occurred in a stairwell while a choir sang. He delivered a 90-minute homily on Christian and Moslem respect and understanding, circled the cricket field in ajeep to wave at the cheering crowd, accepted gifts and left for Manila-the next stop on his Far East tour. · 
Police tentatively identified one of the victims as a Pakistani Chris­tian but it was unclear whether the Pontiff was their intended target. 
A West European diplomat, who asked not to be identified, said the explosion was "small" but "deafening." It occurred in a stair­well that led to seating for diplomats. 
The diplomat said he earlier saw two of the men, including the one who died, trying to slip by guards to the dignitaries' reviewing stand. 

"I saw these two young chaps previously trying to get in," he said. "One of them had a bag under his shoulder." 
The diplomat said one of the injured was a middle-aged man whose pants caught fire. American vice-consul Tim Kane draped his shirt over the man's wounds before the victim was carried from the blood-spattered concrete stairwell. 
Witnesses, who gave contlicting statements on how many people were injured, sai.d lWQ_ appeared lO be Pakistani men in their 20s. , ·­
Dr. Dolphyn d'Souza, who ex­amined the victims, said, "It was an explosion but we don't know 

what  it  was.  ·'One  man  was  
definitely  dead.  His  whole  ab­ 
domen was busted open."  

A CBS reporter. on the scene said it sounded like "a huge firecrack­er" and it went largely unnoticed. 
Pope John Paul II, dressed in white cassock and skullcap, was greeted by President Ferdinand Marcos and his wife Imelda, both Roman Catholics, and Cardinal Jaime Sin, the archbishop of Manila. 
The grenade exploded near a reviewing stand in the Karachi 


Darby II, shown here with Father Griffin, celebrates his first birthday today, after surviving a year on campus. (photo by Greg Maurer) 
Man accosts ND 
female at gunpoint 
A female Notre Dame student was accosted about 9 a.m. yester­day by a man with a nickel-plated revolver and an orange stocking cap, but she managed to escape after handing over her purse and $6. 
The man, who drove a white van with an orange mural depicting a mountain scene emblazoned on the side, forced the student to enter the van at gunpoint, as she walked along near the intersection of Vaness Street and Rte. 23, two blocks from the east boundary of campus. 
The woman, in a report filed with county police, said she escaped 
unharmed after diverting his attention. 
Police refused to comment on the case, and declined comment on 
whether the man resembled the armed rapist who has been reported 
in the area. 

Judge allows delay in discrimination suit 
The discrimination case against Notre Dame, scheduled for a court hearing today, was postponed until April 7 after both sides agreed they were "close to a settlement in principle." 
The suit, filed against the University by 64 past and present women faculty members, is a consolidation of two suits filed separately in 1974 and in 1978 by women protesting Notre Dame's system of employing, promoting and paying its female employees. 
Timothy McDevitt, the University assistant council, declined to say which of the parties requested the stay. He projected that a final settle­ment would be reached by the April court date. 
The women are seeking the abolition offurther discrimination, back pay and measures to ensure fairness in future tenure decisions. 

stadium 20 minutes before John Paul. He made the brief stopover in predominantly Moslem Pakistan before his tour of the Philippines, Guam, Japan and Anchorage, Alaska. 
The explosion occurred behind a wall 15 feet from a reviewing stand where scores of diplomats and dig­nitaries were seated and 60 to 100 feet from the platform where the Pope said Mass. 
The government said the homemade grenade went off during a scuffle between the man and security guards, one of whom-in plainclothes -was among the injured. 
Reliable sources identified the dead man as a Pakistani Moslem who tried to carry the grenade into the stadium in a sack. A guard asked what was in the sack, and the man replied, "Fruit for my wife," according to the sources. 
The sources said the two others 
injured were Christians, but police 
said earlier they were accomplices 
of the dead man. 
Dr. Ailal Mohammed, who treated the wounded at Civil Hospi­tal, said the grenade was filled with nails and scraps of metal. 
Witnesses said the blast oc­

·curred as choirs sang hymns and most of the spectators did not hear it. There was no panic 
After saying Mass, John Paul circled the stadium in a Pakistani jeep as dancers costumed in tradi­tional dress performed. Shouts of "Long Live •he Pope" echoed through the stadium, normally used for cricket matches. 

In his homily, delivered in English, John Paul urged Pakis­tan's estimated 750,000 Roman Catholics to show a "spirit of dialogue and respect to those in your country who do not know Christ." 
48die 



Survivors remember fire 
By NEIL O'CONNER 
Associated Pr:1ss Writer 
DUBLIN -Through flames, thick black smoke, and panicked crowds they survived the tragic Dublin nightclub fire that took 48 lives. Survivors talked Monday from their hospital beds about their escapes. 
Police announced, meanwhile, that pathologists' examinations of the terribly charred bodies revealed that 44 people perished in the blaze early Saturday. They ini­tially placed the death toll at 49, then lowered it to 48 Sunday as medical examiners continued their grim task of trying to identify the victims. 
Pauline Reid, her badly burned face and hands in bandages, smiled despite the pain as she lay in a bed at Dublin's James Hospital. 
''I'm alive and it's great," she said. The :2:2-year-old Dub!iner described what happened in the 
early hours of Saturday morning toward the end of a "Dance The Night Away" Valentine's Eve dis­co dancing competition at the Star­dust Cabaret nightclub, attended by 800 young people. The fire , the worst· in this Irish capital's history, injured 130 people. Nine were reported in critical condition on Monday 

"There were six of us together, dan,ting away. Then we saw the fire'... within minutes the tlames seemed to be everywhere. 
"I ran to a back door, but there was a crowd gathered at it and somebody said it was locked. 1 couldn't breathe in the smoke and I couldn't get out. .. 
"I gave up, Ijust gave up and lay on the ground to die... then sudden­ly I heard a great crash and I saw headlights shining at me through the darkness. 
"Somebody had driven a car from outside through the door to smash it down. Ijust leaped up and ran to the lights and I was outside. 
Whoever drove that car into the door deserves a medal because all around me people were choking on the tloor. 
"We all ran to the lights and lived," she said. Marian Mahoney said she heard 
a  disc  jockey  appeal  to  "keep  
calm" - and then all  hell  broke  
loose.  

··Within seconds the place was full of thick, black smoke. I couldn't see where the door was but I just kept moving. I grabbeq onto a fellow's hair and we pushed through together. I don't ev~n know who he was." 
At the city morgue, police con­tinued the grim task of trying to identify 2~ victims whose bodies were too badly charred for recogni­tion. 


NewsBrie_b. 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
The Soviet Union today dismissed as "rumor without basis" a West German newspaper report that longtime Soviet Foreign Andrei Gromyko would be replaced by Moscow's ambas­sador to Washington, Anatoly Dobrynin. The mass circulation newspaper Bild, which carried the report, said Soviet President Leonid Brezhnev hoped the change in foreign ministers would lead to better relations with the United States. Bild quoted an uniden­tified Western diplomat as saying the 71-year-old Gromyko "downright hates Americans." Gromyko has served as Soviet foreign minister for 24 years. Dobrynin, 61, has been Soviet Ambas­sador to the United States for 19 years. -AP 
The result of the investigation of the strip search of eight Saint Mary's students was scheduled to be submitted to the South Bend Board of Public Safety this morning. City Attorney Richard Hill said that he would deliver a report of the investigation to the board at their regular meeting today. He was unsure if the report would be released to the public because of possible litigation stem­ming from the incident. The eight students are to appear in Circuit Court Wednesday on the underage drinking charges. -The Ob­server 
Terrorists smashed two rockets into the South Yemon Embassy early yesterday in what they claim is retaliation for a dead­ly synagogue bombing. The thunderous explosions awakened the fashionable neighborhood and heavily damaged the embassy but caused no injuries. "We claim the action against the South Yemen Embassy in the name of all victims of Rue Copernic," said t!'te French-language recording played over the telephone to the Agence France-Presse news agency. The Copernic Synagogue bombing Oct. 3 killed three passers-by and one worshipper and injured 20 people in one of the most violent of recent anti-Semitic incidents in the French capital. The bomb exploded minutes before the service inside was about to end. There have been no arrests in the case. Investigators said they believed the nighttime attack was_t.h~ w&Mt-· of three people with expertise in explosives~bl.l.t. ~acr no clues to their identity. The dual launching ~e-rockets was triggered by 
• • I • ... .---~ 
~-tH'ft'ntg aevn:e<s;-1)01H:e smd. -AP 
The dollar posted fresh gains on world money markets yesterday, showing some of the sharpest advances seen in months on the basis of indications of tough new economic policies from President Reagan. The dollar hit a seven-year high against the French franc, touched its highest level in years against the sagging West German mark, the Swiss franc and Dutch guilder and reached another unofficial all-time record against the Italian lira. Reagan's speech, scheduled for tomorrow, is expected to detail his plans for trimming the budget and curbing inflation.-AP 
A top military attache at the U.S. Embassy in Moscow was recalled to Washington after he told his superiors he feared an "incident" could allow Soviet agents to try to blackmail him into spying, Western sources said yesterday. The embassy would not discuss the case of Army Maj. James R. Holbrook except to confirm he left Moscow at an unspecified date last month. In Washington, the State Department refused comment. Holbrook, 41 years old and fluent in the Russian language, was an assistant defense attache as­signed to the embassy in Moscow since the summer of 1979. Wes­tern sources in Moscow said the mysterious "incident" took place early last month at Rovno, about 600 miles from the Polish border, an area Western defense attaches have visited recently amid reports of a Soviet-led Warsaw Pact troop build-up. The Washington Post reported the incident may have involved a Soviet plan to in­capacitate Holbrook with drugs and get compromising photographs of him. -AP 
Frank E. Sullivan, president of the Mutual Benefit Life Insura,ce Company and a 1949 graduate of the University of Notre Dame has been named to receive the Rev. Edwards Frederick Sorin Award of the Alumni Association. The annual award honors a Notre Dame graduate who has contributed outstanding service to his or her community and to the Universiy. Named for the founder of Notre Dame, the Sarin Award will be given to Sullivan June 6, during the annual Alumni Association reunion on campus. The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president of Notre Dame and a previous recipient of the award, will make the presentati?n. Active in com­munity affairs when a South Bend insurance executive, Sullivan was a founder of the South Bend Urban Coalition and a founder and first president of the United Community Services (now United Way) of St. Joseph County. He moved to Newark, N.J., as an of­ficer of Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company in 1973, and he has continued in leadership roles with the United Way and the Newark archdiocese. Sullivan is a trustee of Notre Dame and serves on the advisory council for the College of Business Administration.-The Observer 
Mostly cloudy today. High in the upper 40s to the low 50s. Fair this evening but increasing cloudiness tonight. Low near 40. Mostly cloudy tomorrow. High in the upper40s. -AP 

Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46.5.56 
Tuesday, February 17, 1981 -page 2 
Lobbying for control 
One of the more fascinating aspects of the democratic process is most assuredly the lobbying system. The wheels of this great muscle-flexer areal­ways in motion, encouraging average, apathetic and unmotivated citizens to barrage their congressmen with letters approving this, disapproving that, and basically making such nuisances of themselves that the representative cracks under the pressure and sup­ports whoever shouts the loudest. 
That is the ideal, and it is certainly a marvelous ex­ample of the power of the people. Unfortunately, the lobby with the most money often is able to shout more loudly than the lobby with the most public support. This phenomena is a bane to the existence of many a lobby, the most notable being the gun control group who call themselves Handgun Control. 
The issue of gun control has surged to the forefront of public consciousness since the murder ofex-Beatle John Lennon in December. Lennon, as everyone knows, was shot down in cold blood by a less-than­
mentally-competent  groupie  who  fired  a  legally­ 
purchased handgun  at the  singer.  The slaying  was  
immediately played  up  as  a cause  celebre for the  

abolition of legalized handguns. Evening and late­night news programs carried the stories of the shooting in conjunction with its effect on the pro­arms lobby. 
This new public aw~---c"~ · ness of t~~Jreqaen~cy of Mr.gtth-related crimes 
-carne at an inopportune time for the National Rifle Association, this country's chief handgun supporter. The NRA, with its budget of $30 million, has long presented a formidable op­position to any group campaigning for more strin­gent controls. This lobby is funded primarily by gun manufacturers and dealers who have financial motiva­tion for their dedication. 

The NRA'. s latest move has been to attempt a repeal of the the existing gun law. This law, which offers only minimal control, states that a person who purchases a gun must fill out a federal form with his name, address, age, and the assurance that he is not an ex­felon, drug addict or mentally incompetent. That's all it takes. 
President Reagan's stance on the issue is predictab­ly conservative. He has come out against a complete ban of firearms and he opposes a massive confiscation scheme. He is also a member of the California Rifle and Pistol Association, which implies that his impar­tiality on this matter is uncertain. And everyone knows of Nancy's admitted affinity for the adorable little gun she keeps in her bedstand. 
But, to Reagan's credit, he does advocate tighten­ing the system enough to make it"more difficult" for ex-criminals to purchase a firearm. 
Handgun Control has begun to publish the names of all Americans who were killed by handguns in a monthly release called the Handgun Body Count. In 1979, the count reached 10,728 dead. Fifty percent of the murder victims were shot by handguns-two and 
_The_Ohs.etY-er_ 
Design Editor ...... Ryan Ver Berkmoes Design Assisrants ....... Maura Murphy Jeff Moore Layout Staff ..................... Kim Kohl Michele Dietz Typeutter................... Bruce Oakley News Editor ................. Lynne Daley 
Copy Editor .. ________ ..... Tim Vercellotti SportsCopyEditor ........... Dave Irwin Typists ........................ Katie Bigane Suzy Sulentic, Ed Konrady Systems Control............ Tim Debel ius ND Day Editor............. Dan Gonzales Ad Design ................. Woody & Fran Photographer................Greg Maurer Guest Appearances ................. Roger 
1 
again. Common sense indicates that there would cer­
I
tainly be kss spur-of-the-moment murders, and less accidental deaths caused by casually misplaced hand­
--1
guns. And the popular gun-to-the-head suicide would become more of a bother than it was worth. Forthose who view the ready availability ofguns as 
I 
a right inherent in the second Ammendment to the Constitution, I would ask how toting a gun pro-motes 
1 
I
liberty. At any rate, the Amendment actually states "A Well-Regulated Militia, I Being Necessary to the 
I
Security of a Free State, the Right of the People to Keep and Bear Arms, Shall Not Be Infringed." The American Bar Association has stated that this may be, and actually has been, in­terpreted in the collective sense to mean that the right 
• to bear arms must fall in a militia or a police-power case. Thus, this Amend­ment can easily be inter­preted to favor of either side. 
The gun control lobby, Handgun Control Inc., is working for the passage of a measure that is designed to 
combat handgun crime. The legislation, called the Kennedy-Rodino bill, would, among other things, stop the manufacture, sale and transfer of"Saturday Night Specials," the most common crime weapon. As of 1968, Congress halted the importation of these weapons, but did not outlaw the importation of their parts. So now imported Saturday Night Specials are assembled here, legally. 
The act would also impose the old "swift and sure" one-half times as frequently as any other weapon. Someone is murdered by a handgun every 50 minutes. 

If these statistics sound like propaganda to you, or if you believe that more stringent control laws would make little difference, perhaps you should think 

standard of punishment for those who misuse hand­guns, as well as enforcing more stringent license re­quirements. The most impressive feature of the 
proposed law is that it would assign liability for the illegal sale of handguns. Not only would gun dealers be forced to pass more restrictive requirements to open up shop, but they would also be held ac-, countable for any illegal sales made in their stores. 
No matter who wins in this latest battle of the lobbies, it is encouraging to see that the pro-gun con­
trol lobby, which is supported in principle by 72 per­cent of the voting public according to·a '79 Harris Poll. And whether an individual is pro or con on the issue, a simple letter to a Congressman or a Senator is all it takes to keep the system going. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Edttor-tn-Cbtef......................................Paul Mullaney-Features Edltor.......................................Molly Woulfe Managing Edltor..........................................Mark Rust Pboto Editor ..............................................John Macor 
The Ohseroer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Editorials Editor..............................Michael Onufrak 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily Senior Copy Editor.....................Mary Fran Callahan reflect the policies of the administration of either instituuon. The news is reponed Executive News Editor.........................TomJackman Business Manager ................... ____ ..........Greg Hedges as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a Newt> Editor ...............................................Lynne Daley Controller ........................................................Jim Rudd majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views -ti Editor Maraie Brassil A.dvertlt>lngManager_________ ..........................Mark Ellis
SMCExecu ve .......................... ..,.. of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the communi_u:, and SMC News Editor......................................Mary ~avitt Circulation Manager ... .......................Beth Hackett the ftee expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. rdJ. --·-Beth-H .. "'-an ..~ Production Manager..........................John McGrath
Siports~· lfQr.,,........................................ "•
UUJU 


The Observer Tuesday, February 17, 1981-page 3 
Cultural awareness 


Tyson highlights Black Festival 
By MIKE DUPLESSIE 
News Staff 
The Black Cultural Arts Festival will continue through the latter part of this month, featuring lectures and performances by a variety of reknowned black entertainers and leaders. 
The goal of the Festival, accord­ing to co-sponsor Darlene Sowell, is "to provide an awareness of the 
Black cultural experience, an un­derstanding of various aspects of Black life, and to focus on the ac­hievements and talents of Black Americans." 
Tomorrow's program features a speech by Cicely Tyson in the library auditorium at 8 p.m. Cicely Tyson is best known for her Emmy Award-winning potrayal of Miss Jane Pitman; she has also received considerable acclaim for her roles 

(photo by Greg Maurer) 
Student surveys to provide awareness 
By JEFF CHOPPIN 
News Staff 
Student Senate surveys were the focal point of last night's Senate meeting at Hayes-Healy. The escort service, budget matters and security were also discussed. 
The survey will be used to determine "where the students are coming from," according to SBP Paul Riehle. He said that the sur­veys would provide information which the Senate would "base it's strategy on." 
The one-page surveys will bedistributed to all the undergraduate students. The questions in the survey deal with the number of study days before exams, ticket distributions, the laundry service and library hours. 
"Notre Dame is unique in that it has only one study day," Riehle said. He further stated that Harvard has five study days and that Northwestern has a week. 
The ticket distribution section of the survey includes questions on football, basketball and concert ticket distrib.utions. 
Pat Borchers, who heads the escort service from the Senate, said that the service is doing enough business to continue, and that "it is definitely worth the effort." He stated that most of the requests were coming from girls walking to and from the library. 
In budget business. an additional $750 was allocated to An Tostal 
for tents which would be used in case of bad weather. There is still 
$4,219 unallocated in the Senate budget. 
The Senate will vote next week on a security proposal. The proposal would clarify N.D. Security policy regarding the al­lowance of cars on campus to escort girls to and from their dorms. 
PREPARE FOR 
MCAT·LSAT·GMAT ~~~~ SAT·DAT·GRE·CPA . 
• 
Permanent Centers open days, • Opportunity to make up missed e11enings and weekends. lessons. 

• 
Low hourly cost. Dedicated full· • Voluminous home-study materials time staff. constantly updated by research­

• 
Complete TEST-n·TAPE ,.~facilities ers expert in their field. for re11iew of class lessons and 


• Opportunity to transfer to andsupplementary materials. 
continue study at any of our

• Small classes taught by skilled 011er 85 centers.
instructors. 

in the television special Roots and in the movie Sounder. 
Chicago's revolutionary teacher, Marva Collins, also will speak ­Wednesday, Feb. 25 at 8 p.m.-in the library auditorium. Miss Tyson is currently starring in a movie based on the life of Miss Collins. 
Several other nationally known entertainers will also make ap­pearences during the festival. 
Gil-Scott Heron, noted jazz art­ist and poet, will perform in the library auditorium at 8 p.m. Feb. 
23. The Jazz Tatum Trio Plus will be featured in a Washington Hall Performance at 7 p.m. Feb. 28. 
A talent show is also planned for the Festival, taking place at 7 p.m. Feb. 27 in the library auditorium. 
The Festival will conclude with a fashion show and a dance in the Monogram Room at the ACC on March 7. 
All of the festival's activities are free except for the dance and the fashion show, where there will be a paid admission. 
Anyone interested 
in the position of 
COURSE 


EVALUATION 
BOOK 


EDITOR 

should contact Don 
Schmid at 87 64 or 
leave a message with 
Stud. Govt. secretary on 2nd floor LaFortune by February 20. 




There's a place for you at lockheed on the beautiful San Francisco Peninsula, because imaginations like yours have been the guiding force at Lockheed since our beginning. At that time, we were pioneers in the missile field. Today, Lockheed is involved in a spectrum of scientific and technological programs you won't find anywhere else. We're involved in meaningful programs in such diverse areas as ocean systems, space systems, energy and environmental systems, remotely piloted vehicles, and information systems. 
We're located in one of t.1e most beautiful areas in the nation -Sunnyvale, California, where year 'round pleasant weather, great outdoor activities, and the cosmopolitan lifestyle of San Francisco and San Jose are just short drives away. The 
benefits  are  great,  the  career  growth opportunities  even  greater.  Sound  in·  
teresting?  If  so,  then  investigate  the  exciting opportunities  available  now  for  
COMPUTER  SCIENCE  &  ENGINEERING  GRADUATES  (Aeronautical*  
Electrical• Mechanical).  

Our representative will be on campus Tuesday, February 24 
If unable to contact our representative, please forward your inquiry to College Recruiting Manager, P.O. Box 504, Sunnyvale, CA 94086. We are an equal oppor­tunity affirmative action employer. 
U.S. Citizenship is required. 
At Lockheed, technical :-excellence is a way of life. 
LOCKHEED 
MISSILES & SPACE COMPANY, JNC. 
UniverCity Tour 
Explore Chicago, New York or San Francisco to see what makes our cities tick. 
Combine field work with social science courses to gain insight into the effect urban institutions have on people. 
You'll earn four units of Northwestern credit while you enjoy this unique summer experience! 
Call or send for our free brochure. It has everything you'll need to know. Classes begin June 22. 
Beginning February 22, Call Toll-Free, 24-hours: 800-621-1466 ext. 6067 In Illinois, 800-972-1966 ext. 6067 

NORTHWESTERN 
SUMMER.I981 
Room 1-117, 2003 Sheridan Rd .. Evanston, IL 60201 (312) 492-5250 
• Academic Excellence in a Most Favorable Climate. 
----------------------------------·· ------------------­
lhe Observer Tuesday, February 17, 1981 -page 4 

protection in the area. 

Despite the extra patrol, an armed robbery occurred early this morning in the vicinity. (See story on page 1). The transformer was scheduled to be repaired by Mon­day afternoon. 
Poor illumination continuing across Ivy onto Vaness, however, is not the fault of the University. The area from Ivy Road up to the Turtle Creek Apartments is under the jurisdiction of St. Joseph County. 
According to Kenneth Herceg, county highway engineer, there is no money allocated in the county 

Why Just StudyIt? MAKE HISTORY 
GREAT TIMES GREAT RATES 

Restaurants Pools Lounges 
DIRECTLY ON THE OCEAN 
CALL TOLL FREE 
1-800-87 4-6996 
In Florida 1-800-342-4902 
3125 South Atlantic Avenue Daytona Beach, Florida 32018 
·•

ENGINEERS••• 
r 

WHO THINK ABOUT THE FUTURE SHOULD KNOW ABOUT UNITED CONVEYOR CORPORATION. 
United Conveyor Corporation is a leader in the design and sales of unique coal and abrasive material handling equipm·ent for industries and utilities generating electrical power. Our 60 
. years of engineering excellence has produced complex coal systems capable of meeting today's rapidly changing energy requirements. Our continued involvement with the world's most available resource is a good indication of our prominent growth potential. And because our products are used chiefly for power generation, our company is relatively free from economic fluctuations. 
A future at UCC represents exciting possibilities for people challenged by change. In addi­tion to job security, you can look forward to an excellent, newly-revised compensation and benefits package that is competitive with any in the business. 
If you're considering a career in Sales Engineering or Project Engineering, you'll want to meet with the United Conveyor Corporation Employment Representative on: 
FEBRUARY 27th 
Contact your college placement office today! 

UNITED CONVEYOR CORPORATION 
300 Wilmot Road • Deerfield, Ill. 60015 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M!F 
By LAURA L. LARIMORE 
Senior Staff Reporter 

Poor lighting along the east perimeter of the campus this weekend was the result of a power transformer failure, according to Glenn Terry, Director of Security at Notre Dame. The transformer went out Thursday, apparently due to lightning. After maintenance was unable to repair the damage on Friday, Security increased its 
Lightning strikes 
Power outage darkens area 
Union foresees agreement with new Polish leaders 
budget for street lighting. "The 15 to 20 street lights in the entire county are only for severe cases, those involving traffic safety," he said. Funds used for these come from the general highway fund, Herceg explained. 
Many requests for lighting come to the county office, but all are refused due to lack of finances. In­diana & Michigan Electric Com­pany will hang lights for private homes on a contract basis, accord~ ing to Herceg. 
Continuing down Vaness, only the south side of the road bordering Turtle Creek is within the city limits. Northward, including Campus View Apartments, is part of the county, and is not publicly lighted. Responsibility for this area is that of the residents and the presence of lighting is at their discretion. 
WARSAW, Poland (AP)-In an unprecedented interview with a Polish government newspaper, a union official was quoted Monday as saying the nation's new regime may provide opportunity for a las­ting truce between the government and the independent labor move­ment. 
Government officials worked to resolve two lengthy sit-in protests by Polish farmers and students demanding independent unions. A spokesman for striking students in Lodz said the strikers were ready to sign an agreement and avert a threatened nationwide strike, but it was not immediately clear if such an agreement had been approved by the government. 
Poland's government-owned newspaper, Zycie Warszawy, in what appeared to be a concilatory move, carried a front-page inter­view with Karol Modzelewski, a spokesman and policy maker for Poland's largest independent uni­on, Solidarity. 
The publication of the interview with Modzelewski, who served six years in prison for criticizing the now-discredited regimes of Wladyslaw Gomulka and Edward Gierek, was noteworthy in itself because the Solidarity official had recently been r:;riticized by the army newspaper and the party or­gan Trybuna Ludu for taking ex­treme positions on labor matters. 
The interview came days after the government of Prime Minister Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski, ap­pointed in· a government shakeup last week, asked Solidarity to guarantee a 90-day respite from the labor unrest it said had pushed Poland to the brink of chaos. Workers have refrained from new strikes since then. 
"I think the new government, it's personnel changes and prin­ciples create a real opportunity to turn back the dangerous course of events, particularly visible during the last _weeks," Modzelewski was quoted as saying in a reference to a spate of wildcat strikes staged with­out the authorization of Solidarity's national leaders. 
According to the newspaper, Modzelewski said he believed the new government could provide an opportunity for calm and added "I think both sides have good inten­tions and the consequent policy of dialogue will assure a truce not for three months but for good." 
One day after Polish Communist Party chief Stanislaw Kania made a surprise trip to Prague for talks with Czechoslovak officials, Polish Foreign Trade Minister Ryszard Karski went to the Czechoslovak capital for talks with his counter­part there, Andrej Barcak. The Czechoslovak news agency CTK said the two would discuss economic cooperation during 1981 and "its further development." It gave no other details, but sources in Prague said Czechoslovakia was certain to grant some aid despite its harsh criticism of events in Poland. 
Mardi Gras Schedule 
TUESDAY, FEB.l7 

• 
6-7 p.m. sr citizens night WSND 

• 
7-8:30 p.m. Ted Underiner 

• 
8:45-9:30 p.m. Glee Club 


• 
9:45-11:45 p.m. The Rubber Band 


WEDNESDAY, FEB.l8 

• 
6-7 p.m. High School Nite 


• 
7-9 p.m. Mike Daly and Tom Korwick 

• 
9-12 p.m. WSND 



THURSDAY, FEB. 19 

• 
6-7 p.m. Comedy Magic Nite 

• 
7-8 p.m. WSND 

• 
8-9 p.m. Mide Weber 

• 
9:15-10 p.m. Outcasts 


• 
10:15-12 p.m. Pat Byrnes and Jim McClure 



Tuesday, February 17, 1981-page 5 
Michael Molinelli
Molarity 



~.l~IRVI~5 WAlT. l-ETME HSY, IRVIN&! 
NOT ~a<E. YOU WANTME. .., GETAPENCIL. 
GIMMEAPENCIL~
10GIVE J..\IMAME$\GEt; 
ACROSS 1 System of 

The Daily Crossword 
rules 5 OldWorld songbird 10 Namein soccer 14 Nerve-cell 
process 15 Tilting 16 late queen 
of Jordan 17 Sch. subj. 18 Supernat· 
ural ser· 
vitor 19 Busybody 20 Infuriates 22 Random 
scraps 24 Martini base 


25 Kiwi  48 Ship's  12 German  
relative  capacity  art song  
26 Takes in  50 -culpa  13 Com units  
30 Servitude  51  Pick up the  21 Army Joes  
34 Singing  marbles  23 Stickum  
brothers  52 "Laughing  26 Senegal's  
35 " ... part·ridge in  Boy" autlhdor 56 Househo s  27 cL~,.::~:Iss  
_  tree"  60 Highly  28 Dramatist  
37 Word with  excited  Jean  
up or down  61  Live coal  29 Practices  

38 Between Mo. 63 Breakfast for a bout 
and Colo. 
39 School subJ"ect: abbr. 
40 Creek 
41 On in years 
43 Bay window 
45 Relative of a via 46 Holds on to 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

All Rights Reserved 


Senior Bar Semi Formal Sunday, Mar. 1 
Open Bar 9:80 to 8:00 
$15.00 per couple free bottle of champagne 
Advance ticket sales at front door of ~nior Bar 
item 30 Actress 64 Horse Debra 65 -Janeiro 31 Artery 
66 SurreaIIS. t 32 "Peer Gynt" 
painter composer 67 Thin nail 33 Lake in 68 S~ber· Finland 
mtnded 36 Wallach 69 Goose 42 Marred 
follower 43 Medieval catapults DOWN 44 Reduced 
1 Batting 45 Viscera practice 47 Occupation· screen al ending 
2 Bovines 49 Anais­3 After trap 52 Gullible 
or stage one 4 Takes on 53 Colloid 5 Purplish 54-song 
red (cheap) 6 Beverages 55 Let out 7 Drink: Fr. 56 Middle: 8 "Who-?" comb. form 9 Boat 57 Lecher 
10 Exhibition 58 She: Fr. 11 College 59 Lapse in N.C. 62 Large snake 
. 
Cainpus 
\ 

• 
4:30 p.m. lecture, "nitrogen metabolism in elk," dr. eric mould, smc, galvin auditorium. 

• 
6:00p.m.-mardi gras, until midnight, stepan center.. 

• 
7:00 p.m. -chaplin film series, "the kid," spons. by 


. the dept. of english, annenberg aud, snite museum, $1. 
• 7, 10 p.m.-social concerns film, "the green wall," washington hall, free admis­sion. 
• 8:00 p.m. _ lecture, "west germany is number two: the political economy of the federal republic of germany," dr. wolfram hanrieder, u. of calif-santa barbara, spons by nd german club and govt. dept., room 120 hayes-healy. 
Doonesbury 
Garry Trudeau 
A!?E YOU fAJUL. I'V~ OKAY, 8Aet? 8C£:N1THINK.­>afvt; 8tffl lNG ABOUTA APJFIJI.iYall-FPJEN{). ~'s 
tT 70NIGHT. GOT THIS PRf)/JlEM.. 
I 
5EE., SHE's 8f£N LJVIN5/(//TH 
7HIS GUY FOR. SOM~ TIMe Noti.J. 511& OI!JN7R&AL.I-Y 
Pt.AN IT Of< ANYTHING, IT JUST HAPPEN&lJ. 
~~I 
~~·--~_.._I 

Attention  
Gay Students of Notre Dame Saint Mary's Reach Out and Be Yourself  
Gay Hotline 232-8659 Thurs. or Fri. 10:00 to12 :OOpm  
We Care About YOU  
GSNDSMC  

~­
-

The Observer Tuesday, February 17, 1981-page 6 
I I 
~­
Healthy Moyer adds to Irish success 
By ED KONRADY 
Sports Writer 

"He's not the best miler, he's not the best half-miler," Head Track Coach Joe Piane says of sop­homore Jim Moyer. "But he is definitely up and coming in both of those areas." 
Moyer, hailing from Downers Grove, Ill., has overcome injuiries that have plagued his whole career to become an important asset to this year's Irish track team. 
"He's very valuable in that we · need him for the distance medley," Piane says. "We also need him to fill in at the half-mile or 1000-yard run in dual meets. 
"Jim's strength is his strength. Combine that with the speed he's getting in, and I think he's going to 
SMC ORIENTATION '81 Applications are now being accepted for: 
Assistant Chairman  Social Chairman  
Publicity Chairman  Off-Campus Chariman  
Big Sister-Little Sister  Transfer Chairman  
Chairman  General Committee  
Workers  

Applications are available in the Student Activities Office -166 LeMans. Deadline is Friday, Feb. 27. Sign up for an interview when returning applications. 

A~ncernentDoes 
Not Require An Advanced Degree 
You can spend another two to three years in graduate school or you can turn four years of liberal arts education into a practical, challenging and rewarding career in just three months-as an Employee Benefit Specialist. 
Benefits today amount from 30 to 35 percent of wages and salaries. Recent pension legislation has created even more demand for trained specialists. As an Employee Benefit Specialist you'll be called upon to excercise your own judgement, initiative and intelligence in a challenginy, professional environment with progressive responsibility. 
The Institute for Employee Benefits Training is the first and 
' 
most prestigious school in the United States, training Employee Benefits and Pension Specialists. This is a dynamic, growing career field in which advancement does not require an advanced degree. Our graduates are in demand by law firms, pension consulting firms, insurance companies, banks, and personnel and benefits departments of corporations. The Institute's Placement Service will place you too. If not, you will be eligible for a substantial tl!ition refund. 
Furthermore, you will earn graduate credit towards a Master of Arts in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law for all course work completed at The Institute. 
Ifyou're a senior of high academic standing and looking for 
a meaningful career, contact your Placement Office for 
our catalog and arrange to have an interview with our repre· 
sentative. 
We will visit your campus on: FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1981 
tecruitment will take place on 
St. mary's campus 
The lhstitute for Employee Benefits Training 


(Operated by Para-Legal, Inc.) 
Approved by The American Bar Association Programs Earn Full Credit Toward M.A. in Legal Studies through Antioch ~chool of Law. • A c _oo3 5 
make a superb miler and half­
miler," Piane continues. "I think 
that his future rests in the 1500­
meter run. IfJim continues to put in 
the work, he is going to make a real 
contribution." 
Throughout his career, Moyer 
has been plauged with injuries. His 
senior year at Downers South High 
School, Moyer had to sit out his 
cross-country season because of 
shin splints and a hip pointer. 
However, he was able to recover in 
time to for the state qualifying track 
meet in the spring. Moyer qualified 
for the Illinois state meet in the in­
dividual half-mile run and the two­
mile relay. 
Last year, Moyer had a healthy 
cross-country season. The indoor 
track season started and Moyer 
suffered another injury. 
"I wasn't used to running in­
doors," Moyer says. "The tight 
turns really take a toll on the ankles 
and knees. I aggravated an old high 
school injury, which kept me out 
both the indoor and outdoor track 
seasons." 
The injury that has bothered 
Moyer the most is a strained 
muscle around the knee, common­
ly called 'runner's knee'. This oc­
curs when too much pressure is put 
on the arch. 
"Last summer I got .some or­
thandonics (customized arch sup­
ports) made," Moyer says. "They 
have really he! ped me so far." 
However, Moyer was unable to 
escape injury this summer. "I had 
some tendonitis, which just didn't 
clear up in time, and training later 
this fall I aggrev a ted it," Moyer 
says. "Instead of competing in 
cross country, I did therapy and 
iced it every day, which helped it

r---------------1 I Buy Observer I 
I I 
1 Classifieds 1
L--------_____J 

come around. Over Christmas, I did a few track workouts, and I felt good enough to start with the track team." 
This track season Moyer has b..!en free from injury. In the 1000­yard run, which Moyer ran only once before this year, he has gotten a second-place and three third­place finishes, including last weekend's Indiana Big State Meet at Bloomington, where Moyer had a personal best of2:14.0. 
"My times aren't that great," Moyer readily admits. "But I'm improving each meet I run." 
In the Knights of Columbus meet in Cleveland, Moyer ran a leg in the two-mile relay which came in second. Moyer and the rest of the relay team will be aiming for a 7:32 time so they can qualify for the Na­tionals in Detroit. 
"My only goal right now," Moyer says, "Is to stay healthy through the workouts and to run a good 880-yard split in the relay." 
Having run the 1000-yard run a few times now, Moyer is develop­ing a strategy that will suit his style more. "Usually, I go oui with Chuck Aragon and Tim McCauley and try to stick with them through the race," Moyer says. "I think I'll have more success if I take the pace out a little quicker. If I go through the first quarter of the race at a good pace, I usually run a very good time. Chuck and Tim are con­tent to sit back and wait. They both have a g.ood kick. I don't have the leg speed to win a race by kicking, right now, so I have to run a consis­tant race where the quarter-mile splits are pretty even. So, Piane is anxious for me to start leading the race, and taking off by myself, in­stead of being on Chuck or Tim's shoulder." 
Moyer, unlike many track stars, got a late start on his career. "I started indoor track my junior year of high school," Moyer says. 
"But it was more a keep-in-shape type of thing. My friends were all going out for it, but I was interested in football. I had pretty good success with the mile, and I came close to qualifying for the state meet." 
"So, over the summer I ran with the coach and a few of my friends who ran c-ross-country. I did some long-distance training, and got shin splints," Moyer continues. "Although I was injured my senior cross-country year, I got healthy enough to start track and luckily all the injuries cleared up in time for the state qualifying meet. I got a fifth-place in the half-mile in the state meet." 
Like many Irish athletes, Moyer did not come to Notre Dame to just paticipate in sports. "Primarily I came here because it is a good school," Moyer says. "It's close to home, it has a reputation for being an excellant acedemic university. My high school coach, Kevin Keough, ran cross-country in high school with Piane, and were pretty good friends. But that was a secon­dary consideration." 
The stereotypical attitude of an athlete does not apply to Moyer at all. Moyer is a pre-med in the arts and letters program, and admits, "I'm pressed for time. I have to or­ganize my time efficiently so I have enough time to study. On the weekends,, one night is taken up by running, so I d~m't go out and party as much as the others. But I'm not complaining at all. I enjoy travel­
ing,  being  able  to  run  in  the  
Cleveland  Col6suem  and  seeing  
top-ranked  runners.  It is  an  ex­ 
perience  I  wouldn't  have  other­ 

wise. 

"Also, it's good to be able to know the other guys on the team better. I've been away from com­petition for a full year, but now we are developing the close friendship a relay team needs." 


The Observer Tuesday, February 17, 1981_-page 7 
ND-SMC square offagain 
By BETH HUFFMAN 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame will host Saint 
Mary's tonight at 7 p. m in the 
Rockne Memorial pool as the two 
teams clash in the water a second 
time this season. In the first 
meeting, the Irish overwhelmingly 
defeated the Belles, 101-29. 
"We'll pretty much leave it up to 
the girls as to what event they will 
swim," said Frank Marcinkowski, 
who joins Rody Me Laughlin as the 
Notre Dame coaches. "We're 
thinking of it as a fun meet rather 
than a competitive meet. 
"We have a few girls that might try making a couple of time stan­dards, but other than that most of the stronger swimmers will be swimming in their weak events to 
give some other girls a chance to swim in their strong events." 
The Irish will attempt to set time standards which will qualify them for the AlAW Division III. The single tlaw in Notre Dame's plans is at this point the Irish are not eligible for postseason competition -due to the team's lack of vacsity status and a fe.w other technicalities. 
Jeanine Blatt, the AlAWall-time 
national freestyle record holder in 
the mile in Division III, usually 
swims the 500-yard freestyle for the 
Irish and then jumps right back in 
the pool for the 200-yard individual 
medley. Blatt, an All-America 
swimmer last season, will scratch 
in the 500 and attempt to qualify in 
the medley event. 

Kathy Latino and Lee Ann Bris­lawn, both earning All-America ac­colades last season, have bettered ·standards for AlAW national qualifications. Latino has qualified in the 50-yard butterfly, while Bris­lawn has qualified in the 50 and the 
100-yard backstroke. 
The seven Belles' swimmers will be led by Mary Lenyo and Lucy Hanahan. Lenyo specializes in the butterfly races and the sprint freestyle events. Hanahan will compete in the long distance freestyle races. 
"We've tried to practice sprints and work on a few of the finer points like starts and turns," said Belle's first-year head coach Mark Mamula. Notre Dame owns a 4-3 record. 
Admission to the meet is free. 

Sports Brie_b 
by Tht: Ohserr-er .wd Tht' A.rrooaled Pre 11 
The ND-SMC Ultimate Frisbee Club practices 
regularly in Angela Athletic Facility on Wednesdays from 9-11 p.m. and Saturdays from 12-2 p.m. Interested students are invited to at­tend. 
• • . Gil 

continued/rom page8 
lot of playing time, Gil does not regret his decision to attend Notre Dame. "As far as long-term goals, I feel Notre Dame is the best for me. I've grown as a person, outside of basketball. I've matured as far as accepting my roles on the team. I haven't played as much as I wanted to play, but I think not playing a lot has helped me to accept things about life." 
Gil, an economics major, plans to work in labor relations. But first he will go to Europe to play basketball for a couple of years. 
"I want to play out what I have in me. There's still basketball in me," Gil rationalizes. "When I'm 30 years old, and it's time to ac­cept that I'm no longer an athlete, I want to feel that I played out what I had in me." 
Gil has maintained an excellent attitude during his inactivity. He's been sitting on the Irish bench during every game, encouraging his teammates. He wasn't supposed to make the trip to the Maryland game (it was the day after his arthroscope), but he decided that he had to go. "When someone is missing from a team," he explains, "the team doesn't run right. I had to go to the Maryland game. I had to be a part of the team." 
Gil Salinas has accepted his role at Notre Dame. "I'm happy," he says. "If I had to do it all over again, I'd do it the same way. In the long run, coming to Notre Dame was the best thing for me to do." 
As far as the rest of this season is concened, Gil hopes he gets a chance to contribute on the court. "Time's running out for me," Gil says. "I want to contribute to the success of this team. I know it's within me. I've·been sitting back thinking that I may never play basketball again. Either I do something now or Igo home and play in the YMCA league." 
Hopefully, for Gil's sake, the waiting is over. 
,..--·-..---~--~-----------------------·-------------------------·---~--------------------------. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES j 

PROFESSIONAL TYPING. Term papers, theses, etc. Tape transcrip­tion. Last year's same low prices. All work guaranteed. aardvark automatic solutions. 289-6753. 
DON'T WALK ALONE!!! 
GET AN ESCORT!!! Student Escort Service-On-Call Sun to Thurs 7 to Midnight. Call 6283 (OB UD) At the NO Library 10 to II :45 pm. All student Volun­leers. 
USE IT!!!!!! 

DON'T BE AFAID TO CALL! 
·············································· 
USED & OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS bought, sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. Tues­Sunday, 12-6. 1027 E. Wayne (One block south of Eddy-Jefferson in­tersection) 
·············································· 
FAST, REASONABLE TYPING DONEoncampus. PH.l312 
!LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: PAIR OF BLACK MEN'S GLOVES AT THE UCLA BAS­KETBALL GAME. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL 1284. 
I lost my dark brown leather gloves on Tuesday. If you find them, please contact Chuck 8705. 
Father took wrong black coat at JPW. If you found or lost one, CALL 1267 
FOUND: ONE SET OF KEYS ON ORANGE RING NEAR CAMPUS VIEW APTS. CALL 1816 
······· ······································ 
LOST--A SILVER BRACELET WATCH-CALL TERESE AT 277­8037 REWARD$$$$$ 
·············································· 
LOST: ONE SET OF FOUR KEYS ON RING WITH LEAT­HER TAB ATTACHED. LOST LAST SATURDAY. PLEASE CALL MARTHA AT 2872 IF 
FOUND. 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The Observer. P.O. Box a. Notre Dame Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Nc;tre Dame, Indiana 
46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
[ FOR RENT 
A vail able for next school year: 2 five-bedroom houses, near ND, lease, deposit, 234-2626. 
FOR RENT-UGLY DUCKLING RENT-A-CAR FROM $7.95 A DAY AND 7 CENTS A MILE. PHONE 259-UGLY FOR RESERVATIONS. 

~NTED 
NEED RIDE TO BUFFALO ON FEB 18 OR 19th PLEASE CALL MATT AT 1787 
Need a ride to Buffalo, NY on Feb. 26 or Feb. 27. Will share driving and expenses. Call Beth at 4629. 
NEEDED: Ride home for 2 to North Fla.(Tal) for Spring Break Will share cost. Call Rose 7905 or Cindy7895 
NEED RIDE TO MILWAUKEE ON THURS. OR FRIDAY2/190R 2/20. CALL KATIE4451 
Riders needed to Minneapolis/St. Paul or Points West. Leave on Feb. 18, Wednesday in the afternoon. Call 232-0982 and ask for Jeff. 
I MALE NEEDED TO RENT APARTMENT WITH 3 OTHERS. $90/MO. plus ELECTRICITY. 5 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. CALL BRIAN AT8920 AFTER 10 P.M. 
KAPLAN MCAT BOOKS. WILL BUY, RENT OR BORROW. CALL STEVE AT 277-1759 AF­TER II P.M. 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE: B I C 920 TURN· 
TABLE.  II  MONTHS  OLD.  
CALL RICH AT 1905.  
ARMSTRONG  FLUTE.  USED  

OCCASIONALLY. $400 OR BEST OFFER. 232-9782 IN 
EVENINGS. 
TICKETS 
J 
.............................................. 
I need many Dayton-ND rix. Call Monica41-5154 

NEEDED!!! 2 GA tix to DePaul vs. 
ND. Please call. Call Cathy 41­4380. 
I NEED MANY DAYTON TIX, STUDENT AND GA--PLEASE CALL BETH AT 1715 OR 277­8037. 
Need MANY Dayton tickets for brothers and sisters. Student or GA. Please call Mary 8156. 
I NEED TWO DAYTON TIX, 
G.A. OR STUDENT WILL PAY YOUR PRICE. KATIE4451. 
Need 4-6 tickets for Dayton. Will pay big$$$. Call Joe 4625 
Needed: Two tickets to Virginia. For rich brother S$$ Call Sean at 1588. 
NEED 2 VIRGINIA TIX! WILL PAY ANYTHING CALL PAT AT 2349657 AFTER 7:00 
I PERSONALS I 
ST. MARY'S STUDENTS: On Thursday, vote for experience. dedication and resourcefulness VOTE: 
MITCHELL 
BOURJAILY 
PAGNUCCI 
Your ticket to responsible govern· 
ment. 
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS RINGS. $20-$85 OR MORE. WE MAKE HOUSE CALLS. 255-2402. 
SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES ENDS THIS WEEK WITH "THE GREEN WALL." 
THE FULFILLMENT OF THE PROMISE DEPENDS ON FAITH... 
SMC Freshmen: Vote for a "Class 
Act": 
Murphy, Hoeler, Drake and 
Hughes 

on Feb. 19. for Sophomore Coun­
cil. 
i·d~~~~;~~~·,·; -~~~d -~ ·ri·ci~ ·t~ ·ii~'ir3i<>. 
NY on Feb. 26 or Feb. 27! Will share driving and expenses. Call Beth at4629. 
Angelita Sleeper, Freak me out!! aloha. your buddies 
SMC Remember Thurs. Feb.19 
Cast your vote for: 
MAKENS 
HULME 
KELLY 

Student Body Elections 
Bestiality lives in room 324 Holy Cross, for appointment contact Brad3187 
SMC CLASS OF '84 Vote DUVIC, Aisthorpe, Flynn, &Orr CLASS OFFICERS' 
JANE-O, 

WHY DO YOU HATE SCOOP? 
HAPPY 20TH, PAULA COR­RIGAN!! Wishing you a S. L. with a T.F.M.! Love, Mary and Liz 
SMC SENIORS Remember-YOU can VOTE MAKENS HULME KELLY Student Body Elections Thursday-Feb. 19 
S MC elections... 
Vote MURPHY 
LOPEZ PERREAULT 

... for results. 
·············································· 
WANTED: SOPHOMORES. JUNIORS, SENIORS WITHOUT THE VAGUEST NOTION OF A CAREER. SIGN UP FOR WORKSHOP WED., FEB. 18, 
3:30 TO 5:30 P.M., ROOM 222, PLACEMENT OFFICE, OR CALL JOAN MCINTOSH 8342. 
SUE CHICK: YOU ARE THE ULTRA-FLAKE OF ND 
·············································· 
Vote Thurs. Feb. 19 for SMC Stu­dent Government & Class Officers 
jane-o, 

no amount of publicly published gushing sentiment can accurately ponray the degree of my deep af­fection for your being. therefore, i will not compose such prose, and leave such thoughts to you in stric­test, most personal confidence. love you more, 
scoop 
Vote Dziminski, Bunker, Burns. Clark-S MC Junior Class Officers 
LOUIE, SORRY I MISSED ERSKINE, SHIRLEY'S, AND AUGUSTA. LOVE, 
THE PINK CARNATION. 
PINK CARNATION, SHOULD HAVE BEEN THERE. BOB. 
Dear Miss Nancy, The request has been initiated and priorities have been adjusted so 
that compliance  will be  met.  You  
asked for it. ..  
VJM JR.  

A!l l·IJS<;,tfted ans rr .. st he recel\lt':~ t>y 4 45 p m ~wo davs pno· "o the ·~'''f' '' whn·n the .:~:1 rs run The Observer offiCe \,'\/'dl accept classtt.eds 1\1onoa, througr> Fr"1<~>· 11) 00 a<" •o 4 45 p.m All class<lreds must be pre-pa•d Ptther tn r-P.rCion or throuy., ~he mall 
HOW FAR CAN $6 SEND YOU'? ALL THE WAY TO NEW OR­LEANS! SMC SENIOR CLASS PRESENTS A SUITCASE PARTY! FEB. 26 AT LEE'S. CHECK POSTERS FOR TICKET LOCATIONS. 
EVEN A ROOM IN MOTEL 6 COSTS $11.95! SECOND PRIZE SENDS YOU TO THE SENIOR FORMAL. SMC SENIOR CLASS SUITCASE PARTY AT LEE'S FEB. 26. 
To the boys in 825, thanks for a real nice party friday. Too bad Moran wasn't up to his reputation! 
The Real Party Givers 
P.S. Get some more women next rime, lest people get the wrong idea! 
Thanks to 3rd floor Badin for making Portaparty II a success last Friday. Here's to new found friends. 
SMC OFF-CAMPUS VOTE-MAKENS HULME KELLY STUDENT BODY ELECTIONS THURSDAY FEB. 19 
All my rommates are graduating! I need 3 classmates to share my Campus View apt. next yr. For more info. call Kathy-271-8839. 
Learn the art of Courtship by Classifieds-­See Ryan Ver Berkmoes or Scoop Sullivan for more details. 
Uncle Duke????--The country may be in a mess, but guess who made it that way--Not the Republicans, that's for sure. Thanks for a nice Valentines Day and the beautiful flowers. 
JOAN FITZGIBBONS, You can drool on my pillow anytime. I get a BIG BANG out ofit. Mr. Torrence 
PITTSBURGHES -THERE WILL BE A PITTSBURGH CLUB PARTY IN FLANNER'S COMMONER THIS FRIDAY NIGHT (FEB. 20). ALL MEM­BERS ARE FREE. (BRING SOME POOF TO SHOW THAT YOU'RE FROM PITTSBURGH). BE THERE! 
ANN-CONGRATULATIONS ON YOUR TERRIFIC WEEKEND AND THE BIG EVENT(S) 
TO THE NOTRE DAME HOCKEY TEAM-THAT4-2 WIN IN MUNN WAS NICE. THANKS. GOOD LUCK IN THE PLAYOFFS!!!! 
TO THE SWEETHEARTS OF 1-A MORRISSEY: THANK YOU FOR THE VALENTINE!! LOVE, AMY 
B.W., FELIZ 22nd CUMPLEANOS? Pitch the baskets, Fiber Queen, and tie the ··BIG" one on tonight. Semester diez es a whizzing by so make hay. La whoopla all the wayla. Muchas moe las. Love ya. Lester Van, Tina Louise, 
Cath 
To the really "Super" women in 250 Holy Cross: Thanks for a really Excellent party. I can't say any­thing more! 
Love Tom 
CONGRATULATIONS ELLEN KORCZYK AND RICK STAN­LEY !!!!!!!!1 START MONOGRAMMING SWEATERS WITH NEW INI­TIALS. SEE YOU AT SACRED HEART-JUNE18,1982!!! LOVE, YOUR SMC FRIENDS 
Dear Raili and Cheryl, 
Thanks for the unexpected (but much appreciated) gift. It's nice to know that I've got friends like you 
two. J.P.O. 
P.S. Patrick is spelled with a "k." 
Mrs. & Mr. GLK: t'was nice, but I'm sick ofthe door hitting me in ass on my way out. Adios, good luck (you'll need it) and BEWARE. PF 
Dear Kevin, I am closer to believing than I 
ever was before. Love, Terry 
Reese, Lorie. Mark. Kelly, and whoever else was there, 
Uh,  thanks,  y' all.  I  love  you.  
Really.  
Scrut  

John; it was nice to be remembered on Valentine's Day. Thank you for being a real friend. 
Cindy 
Hi, Jeff. Maggie 
Kellee likes 'em without ties. And shirts. And socks. Etc. 
Q: What did archaeologists find in the Yukon? A:Themooseinglink?! 
(Blame Michael Onufrak for that small bit of anthropological humor. He is a primate in his own right.) 
Moose Control 
Just so no one feels left out, here· s one from Joe Mulfler for B.C.A. people: 
Q: What is the missing term in the equation: C equals'? plus cQd? 
A: Autonomoose consumption! 
(Sorry to all you outsiders, but we had to do on.:: for the BCAs. They generally get no respect.) 
Moose Control 

• 
, 
; •· 
. .,. 
·l. 
":"fllll' .
~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.~--------~~ 

.­
·, .
.. 

.. .~ ·-~ ... ..': ~ '. ' . 

..~----------------=-~-------------------.--------------------------------------~------------------------·------------.------­
I' I) 
fj 

' 
I Tuesday, February 17, 1981-page 8 
' ~ports
' 
Irish win no. 19 
When you least expect it... 
By CHRIS NEEDLES distance of the Stags, who shot an the other hand, Notre Dame, with Sports Writer ungodly 71 percent for the half (69 their tough schedule, can't get up percent for the game) after averag­for every game. I'm glad we were 
I Somehow, somewhere, when ing 46 percent for the season. able to take advantage of their let­you'd least expect it. .. The second half provided more down, but give them credit for not of the same, and with 8:15 to play,
The old punch-line from letting us beat them." "Candid Camera" would have Fairfield still led 47-42. The Stags Fortunately for the It th-ranked
made a perfect theme for Monday suddenly went cold, going nearly Irish, the game goes into the win
night's Notre Dame-Fairfield game seven minutes without scoring a 
column nonetheless, boosting their
at the ACC. point, while the Irish ran off 12 record to 19-4. But Phelps would
The Stags, who came into the points in a row to take a seemingly just as soon not have any more of
game with an 11-10 record, were commanding 54-47 advantage with these unexpected scares.
hardly a North Carolina State 3:32 left. Then, for some reason 
(whom the Irish manhandled on Fairfield, a team comprised of 
Allen Funt, though, would have Saturday) or a Virginia (Notre mostly New York City area 
loved it. 

Dame's next opponent on Sunday). players, reverted back to its roots, 
All in all, they were an easy op­commonly referred to as IRISH ITEMS: Paxson led a "playground basketball.,,.... balanced Irish scoring attack with
ponent to overlook. And it almost worked. 17 points and four assists, while
But the Irish, after overcoming adversity of Hiroshima-like In the remaining three minutes, Tripucka and Tracy Jackson proportions, needed key free Fairfield got two 30-foot rainbows chipped in 15 and 14, respective­
throws from st:nior Kelly Tripucka by sub Mike Aldridge, a broken ly... Palazzi, averaging only 8.5 and sophomore Bill Varner in the ankle, a broken nose, and came points per game entering the con­last :15 to escape with a 57-55 vic­within one jump-shot of sending the test, scorched the nets for 21 
tory. Varner started in place of game into overtime. points, 15 in the first half. He was senior tri-captain Orlando .Pass the brass knuckles. the only Stag to reach double Woolridge, whose 14.9 pojnts per "Yoy've got to give Fairfield figures... Woolridge's injury is not game and .672 shooting percentage credit," said a relieved Digger considered serious, and he is prob­
were sorely missed last night. Phelps after the game. "They able for Sunday's showdown in 
The outcome wasn't decided, played a smart, ball-control game. I Chicago with top-ranked Virginia. however, until Fairfield's Mike think they were lucky to catch us Game time, despite what is listed Palazzi misfired on a desperation between two big ball games. l also on the ticket, is slated for 2 p.m. 
25-footer and after Henry Foster's was pleased that we were able to EST, I p.m. in Chicago... Fair­follow-up was ruled to have come come through at the end after field's Rich D'Antonio suffered a after the final buzzer. playing as poorly as we did." broken ankle after hitting a lay-up 
It was obvious from the begin­What Digger failed to mention to close his team within 54-49. ning that the Irish would be in for a was all the adversity his team had Teammate Aldridge broke his tough evening. Fairfield, copying to overcome to win last night: nose, courtesy of an errant Varner 
Notre Dame's style of ball-control, playing without Woolridge, who elbow, as the two battled for the tempo offense and a tenacious, was a victim of pink-eye; facing an rebound at the buzzer. 

switching defense, actually out­emotionally-charged Fairfield played the Irish for most of the first team which was playing its final big half. When Foster hit a 10-foot game for its recently resigned bank shot to put the Stags up 27-19 coach, Fred Barakat; missing II with 6:04 left, Notre Dame and its free throws (out of 26), including announced II,345 faithful realized four one-and-ones down the that this was not to be your basic stretch; and, finally, being out­
Valparaiso-style blowout. rebounded by the under-sized The Irish closed within one, 33-Stags, 20-19. 32, at the half, thanks to the magic "It was one of those cases, for of guard John Paxson. The 6-2 sop­us, where we gave all the energy we 
homore scored seven points had, a one-night affair," said a (including another buzzer-beater) talkative Barakat, who despite the in the last five minutes of the half to defeat resembled the proverbial keep Notre Dame within shouting child on Christmas morning. "On 

Belles smash Grace, 82-51 
Waiting in wings 
Salinas awaits his chance 
I 
By DAVE DZIEDZIC "Especially in the UCLA game. I But I've learned to take it as it com­Sports Writer was /enjoying the game, but I felt es. I work hard in practice, and ac­sad just sitting there, knowing I cept whatever happens. If we win it Gil Salinas is waiting. could contribute to the team. all this year, it will all have been 
The 6-11 senior forward has had "The time off has got me worked worth it." to sit out Notre Dame's last twelve up inside. I want to be ready to play Gil, along with the rest of his games due to a knee injury. In the these last five games. Hopefully I'll teammates. has been waiting for a ten games that he has played. Gil­be a part of Digger's game plan." shot at the national championship. bert played just 71 minutes, scoring Having to wait is nothing new for As far as the final four is con­32 points. Gil. He came to Notre Dame four cerned, Gil says, "It seems like it But Gil hopes to be ready for years ago and has never consistent­will all go to waste if we can't make 
Sunday's game against Virginia. ly been a starter. "It's tough to be it this year. There arc six seniors He's been working out, and says an All-American as a high school who have worked very hard on this the knee feels good. "I'm not sure senior and then sit·on the bench as a team. It will seem like a waste of 
of how the knee will react to the college freshman," Gil says. Then tifl\e and talent if we don't make it game situation, but I want to try it he missed most of the season this year. But we're optimistic this out," a gutsy Gilbert says. during his sophomore year due to year. I know this team can win." 
Waiting has not been easy for academic probation. More waiting. Even though he hasn't gotten a Salinas. "Sitting out these last few .. Last year I was playing, but not 
See Gil, page 7 

games has been tough," Gil says. as much as I thought I would he. 
By DAVE WILSON 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's basketball coach Jerry Dallessio says Kim Works does a nice job in her new position in the starting line-up for the Belles. That may be putting it mildly after Works scored 18 points and snared 14 rebounds in the Belle's 82-51 thrashing of Grace College Monday night at Angela Athletic Facility. Saint Mary's upped its record to 13-9. 
"Works was super'" Dallessio said. "I think the move to a st(lrting position has really boosted her self-confidence." 
In perhaps their best offensive effort of the season, the Belles openned both halves of the con­test by outscoring the Lancers, 12-2. Saint Mary's held a 22-8 margin after ten minutes and Dallessio was able to clear his bench before halftime. The lead was increased to eighteen with five minutes remain­ing, but Grace ran off eight straight pdints to pull within ten, 36-26. 
In the second half, Dallessio returned :to his start­
ing line-up of Works, Maureen King, Tracy 
Hargreaves, Mary Pat Sitlington, and Anne 
Armstrong, as the Belles increased their lead to, 48­
28. Saint Mary's second and third teams then proceeded to widen the margin to the final31 points. 
The Belles' persistent defense forced the Lancers to commit more than twenty turnovers in the game. and Dallessio feels the team has improved tremen­dously in this aspect of its game. 
"They really hustled out there tonight," Dallessio said. "We had some terrific defensive efforts, and we're finally talking it up with each other." 
Lisa Schirz also tallied 18 for the winners. Sit­lington, Armstrong, Gretchen Meyer, and Karen Wallin all contributed eight. Rounding out the scoring was King with six, followed by Mary Bay­less with four and Cyndy Short with three. Short hac two blocked shots as well. 
The Belles will meet the University of Indiana­Indianapolis Friday night in their final home game of the season. Game time is 6, as the Belles will be looking to extend their home-court winning streak to four. 







