
• • Walton -page 6
• 

VOL. XV, NO. 123 
As part of Respect Life Week, Dante/ Smith spoke on genetic engineering last ntght. See story on thts page. (photo byRudyPerez) 
Mining town 
Blaze mayprompt move 
.. 
ByJOHN DANISZEWSKI 
Associated Press ll'rlter 
CENTRAUA, Pa. (AP) 
This little hard coal town, Its un­derside already roasted by a mine shaft blaze that has burned and helched for 19 years, is also being split in two, divided over whether it's nccc:ssary to move the town to save it. 
The t·motional debate, carried on in parlors, taprooms and the post office foyt·r, moves to the ballot box May 19. The: question on the ballot: Should the: town be relocated so the fire can he: dug out? 
"Thb is going to have a whole lot of hearing on whatc:vc:r's going to happen," \layor John Wondoloskl said, adding that dected officials will work to rdocatc: the town If that's the will of the voters. 
With emt·rgc:ncy money, permis­sion from the Legislature and <.'<>operation from the nc:ighhoring 

township, officials could annex land and rebuild the town away from the fire, ht· ~aid. 
The non·binding referendum won't for<.'C offidals to take action hut will allow the 1,100 townspeople: to sec where their nc:ighbors stand. Mostly they stand where their houses stand, and arc llkdy to vote in a way reflecting whether their houses arc threatened or not. 
Adding to the confusion and fear 
is the fact that no one knows exactly 
where the fire is. "Everybody's on 
an mdt>pendenr student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 1981 
In tenure case 

Court approves settlement 
By DAN LEDUC 
News Staff 
The settlement ofthe class·action 
sex discrimination suit against the 
University received tentative court 
approval yesterday. 
Court documents confirmed ear­
lier reports that the terms of the 
proposed settlement include tcnur­
ing Delores Frese, former assistant 
professor of English and prinicipal 
plan tiff in the suit, and granting her 
back pay from Sept. 1, 1980. 
Although U.S. DistrictJudge Allen Sharp gave his preliminary approval, "there arc still a number of ques­tions that need to be resolved in the case," University counsel Timothy McDevitt said. He declined to elaborate, citing an agreement that all parties involved in the suit would refrain from public comment. 
University Prll>vost Timothy O'Meara said yesterday's approval does not mean that a final settlement has been reached. "There will now be a period for the members of the class to comment," O'Meara said. "Judge Sharp will consider the com­ments and then accept or reject the settlement." 
Part of the proposed st:ttlement 

edge," Wondoloski said. monoxide present. Coddington was 
Gov. Dick Thornburgh signed an hospitalized briefly and now lives agreement Monday with the U.S. In­with his sister in another town. terior Department under which the That incident followed by five department will buy as many as 30 weeks a young boy's brush with buildings on a 16-acre tract most death. Todd Domboski, 13, was seriously affected by the fire, condi-• playing outside Feb. 14 when the tiona! on the owners' acceptance of ground gave way and he tumbled in­the offers. There are about 400 to a smoky, 40-footdeep hole where 
buildings in the town, 109 in the area over the fire. See FOCUS, page 4 The road to Centralia winds 
through mine-scarred mountains. casing of tension inside Poland, the Tall waste heaps of coke bear tes­Warsaw Pact troop manl·uvers had timony to years ofanthracite mining gone well beyond what li.S. officials 
Smith examines
by the Poles, Russians, Irish and Por­said was rt·quirt·d for tht· annual tuguese who immigrated to this area spring exercises. In the 1800s. The Soviets flt·w a numher of 
Now the same hard coal that gave military transport planes into
genetic engineering Centralia its reason for being may be Poland. Dyc:ss, the Stall' I>c:partml·nt providing the seed ofits destrul'tion. spokesman. said the Soviets wcrl' 
A dump fire in 1962 spread to a By HANK WAGNER ''capahle of moving 011 any time." coal outcropping and worked its News Staff From his hospital bl·d. Prl·sidl·nt way into the maze of abandoned Reagan authorized thl' Sl'llllin~ of a mine tunnels hcncath the town's Daniel Smith, speaking on thl· suhject ofgenetic t•ngineering, assl'ftl'll that mcssa~t· to Brl·zhnl'V reportcdly southern and eastern edges. Smoke "Anyone who is at all media conscious cannot overlook the: inputs of hio· warning of ~rave conseqUl'nt'l's to now billows out of holes bored into technology. We arc at a point of intervening at a fundamental level in till' East· West rc:lations if Mosl·ow inter· the ground to vc:nt the fire's gas and creation of life itself." Smith's offc:ring is the sc:cond in a sc:rics of lectures fc:red. In Bonn. Wl·st <iermany. heat. The holes, 2,000 of thc:m, out­being held here as part of Respect Life week. lkfc:nSl' Sl·t·rt·tary Ca~par Wcinhn­number the people. The main thrust of his spl·ech centered on the inability of morality and gc:r declared ;mew, this tillll' to 
In some places, the temperature a ethics to keep up with modern technology. Smith feels that society must NATO ddl·nsl· ministl'fs. that till' dozen feet hclow the surface is 900 examine the growing genetics engineering industry and decide wht·thcr il is llnited States would l'Jltntain no degrees. Burials are hanned at local in man's best interests to continue along present lines ofdevelopment. renl·wal of arms t<1lk~ if the Soviets graveyards. There: is a danger of"applying methods ofdealing with inanimate objc:cts intt·rVl'nt·d in Poland. 
Efforts by the federal government to living things. We arc involved in a new technology here: and don't fully Some oflkials who hall ht'l'n op­to extinguish the nrc, all futile, have undt·rstand its impact. We may be biting off more than we can chew." timistk all alon~ ahout the prospect cost 53.'i million. To t·xplain his position, Smith made reference to the so-calkd wondt·r for Soviet restraint had chan~ell 
The chief fear is that the gases drug, lntc:rferon. According to Smith, the dru~ is a product in search of an thc:ir mind as of latt· last week. being given off by the smoky fire will application -as yet, it has no proven henefit. Despite this fact, there is a Still, sc>rm· ;analysts fc:Jt the ad­seep into houses and kill people in tremendous rush by chemical companies to synthesize the drug, dut· to the ministration had exaggerated the their sleep. There's also a hazard of potential profit it represents. dan~er of Soviet intnvention. "My cave-ins as flames cat through mine Smith feels there is a danger of rushin~ into something we do not fully problem is that I don't Sel' the supports. understand. He pointed out the pott·ntial dangers of introducing new or­troops," one: ollkial said over the 
Tensions rose March 19 afterJohn ganisms into the environment, and warned against "biological pollution". weekend. Coddington, 63, a former mayor, He also stated that the technology of geiwtic engineering "may soon be lie said the Soviets would need was overcome in his bedroom when applied to human beings." Smith worries that reproduction may hecome just 600,000 troops to ensure a su<.·cess­carbon dioxide snuffed out most of another industry. The Supreme Court has already paved the way for this hy ful intt·rvention hut had only the oxygen. Tests also showed a 200,000 available for imml·diate 
See LIFE, page 4
small quantity of poisonous carbon deployment. 
Ease in tensions sparks U.S. reaction 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Four days delivered at the Czel·hoslovak Com­after warning that a Soviet invasion munist Party Congress. of Poland might be imminent, "If he meant to say that the Poles Reagan administration officials should be allowed to solve: their breathed easier yesterday following own problems without outside in­signs that the Kremlin was prepared terference, we would welcome to let Poland work out its problems this," Dyess said. "That's been our on its own. consistent position." 
Responding to a speech in Czech­Other officials, speaking privately, oslovakia by Soviet President Leonid said they were encouraged by other Brezhnc:v, under-Secretary of State developments. They noted that for Political Affairs Walter StoeSst:l hours after Brezhncv's speech, East­said the Poles now "have some more ern European news agencies an­time to put their house in order, nounced that Warsaw Pact military according to Soviet lights." maneuvers were l'ompleted yester­
Stoessel, appearing on NBC TV's day and that "participating f<.)rces "Today" show, was responding to a were returning to the places ofthcir speech by Brezhnev in Prague: in permanent stationing." which he said the Polish Communist That announcement, comllinc:d Party and oth ~r "true Polish with Brezhnev's speech, apparc:ntly patriots" would be able to manage eliminated, for the time bcin~. the the country's problems by them­prospect of a full-blown crbis in selves. East-West relations. 
At the State Department, spokes· It was just last Friday that the man William Dyess responded more Reagan administration seemed to cautiously to Brczhnev's speech, have resigned itself to an Imminent 
Soviet intervention. Dt·spitc: an includes establishing two appeal procedures for persons displeased with tenure and other hiring deci­sions. 
A specific procedure will be set up for class members unhappy with decisions made between Jan. I, 1977 and Dec. I, 19HO. Appeals will be handled by a committee of two academicians from inside the lJni· versity and two from outside. 
Appeal procedures for future tenure decisions arc presently being established. 
When asked if faculty who arc not members of the class ;H:tion suit would be able to comml·nt on the scttlemo,lt before Judge Sharp, McDevitt was rmccrtain "I'm not sure," he said. ·· Vly Sl"nse is 'no' bl·­cause they will not he ll'gally af­fected by thl' settkmc:nt. "I anticipate, however, that judge Sharp may allow comml·ntary from any party." 
McDevitt that thl' proposed sc:ttll'ml·nt is not final yt·t and that all members of the class 
See TENURE, page 4 

I. 
-~--­



~~~Scl:J:~:=i=~~~~S========~=======================w=e=dn=e=sd=a=y=,A=p=ru=s=,=t9=B=t===Pa=g=e~2
by The Observer and The Associated Press 


College enrollment will decline by 5oo,ooo to 750,000 students, and 281 smaller institutions will be forced to close if President Reagan's higher education budget cuts are enacted, a group ofcollege and university presidents told a U.S. House subcom­mittee. The Reagan administration has recommended cutting federal support for higher education by 20 percent, from U6.9 billion in 1981 to Sl3.45 billion in 1982. All forms of student aid, including grants, loans and Social Security benefits, would be substantially cut, as would funding for research and development. These cuts would prove "devastating" to higher education, said E.K. Gretwell, chancel­lor of the University of North Carolina-Charlotte and chairman ofthe board of the American Council on Education. Besides causing a sig­nificant rise in student costs, the Reagan budget will cause a serious setback in research programs, especially in the social and health sciences, and will also erode the overall quality ofeducation, Fratwell said. The Office of Management and Budget has estimated that the Reagan cuts could force 281 small schools to close down, says W. Richard Stephens, presidentofGreenville College in Illinois. Many of those schools have a high percentage of students receiving financial aid, and would lose those students if aid is cut while tuition is rising. Larger schools, like the U. of Illinois, would also suffer, says its presi­dent, Stanley Ikenberry. In addition to direct student aid and research cuts, the school stands to suffer from reductions in funding for the arts and humanities endowments, the Corporation for Public Broadcast­
ing and health professions education. Cuts in Medicaid funding will hurt the university hospital, says Ikenberry, since 66 percent of its patients have annual family incomes of $7,500.-Tbe Observer 
AJustice Departmentreportsaid yesterday that 
while the number of crimes has increased, the percentage of Americans victimized by crime has actually declined slightly over the .,past six years. The report, by the department's Bureau ofjustice Statis­tics, showed that 30 percent of the nation's 80.6 million households were victimized by one or more crimes during 1980, down from the 
31.3 percent in each ofthe last three years. In 1975, when the bureau's National Crime Survey began, 32 percent of U.S. households were touched by some crime. The report said that the six-year pattern shows consistent and pervasive crime. "A large minority ofAmerican households experiences crime each year, although most of them ex­perience it in a non-violent form," the report said. "There is great stability in the patterns from year to year, while the trend for the period as a whole seems to be downward." -AP 
' Secret Service agents pulled a 22-year-old man armed with a 32-caliber revolver off a bus in the Port Authority bus terminal yesterday and charged him with threatening the life ofPresi­dent Reagan. Agents said Edward Michael Richardson had left a letter in a New Haven, Conn., hotel in which he said Reagan was "targeted for death." A second letter found yesterday in the hotel room indi­cated that Richardson, ofDrexel Hill, Pa, sharedJohn W. Hinckley Jr.'s affection for actress Jodie Foster, a freshman at Yale University. Hinckley was arrested last week and charged with attempted assas­sination of the president after Reagan and three other men were shot in Washington, D.C. The letters were found by a cleaning woman at the hotel. Asked whether there was any connection between Hinckley and Richardson, Special Agent James D'Amelio said "the investigation is continuing. We can't comment on that." -AP 
Afl attorney for CBS-TV newsman Dan Rather says the anchorman is dropping all charges against a cabdriver he had accused ofkidnapping him during a wild ride in Chicago last fall. Judge Richard LaCien, of Circuit Court, agreed Monday to allow the Cook County state's attorney's office to withdraw two misdemeanor charges against the cabdriver, Eugene Phillips. Rather's attorney told LaCien the newsman would not pursue the charges of disorderly conduct or "failure to discharge a passenger." Rather had accused Phillips of refusing to allow him out ofhis cab last November. The cabdriver said the newsman refused to pay the 1112.25 fare but Rather denied it. ­
AP 
The Maryland Court of Special Appeals has ruled a wife's refusal for more than a decade to have sex with her husband cannot be considered desertion. The case, apparently the first of its kind in Maryland, involved a 55 year old Montogomery County woman who claimed she was afraid to have a child and refused to have sex when her 71 year-old husband would not use a contraceptive. The couple had been married 35 years. The court ruled Monday that refus­ing to have sex with a mate is not desertion, and dedided against the husband who had sued his wife for divorce on the basis of "co~structive desertion." -AP 
The federal government has decided against 
prosecuting a University of Pennsylvania student who wrote in the Daily Pennsylvanian he wished President Reagan would die ofhis gun­shot wound, according to a Secret Service spokesman. Dominic Man· no's April 1 column also defended Reagan's accused assailant, john W. Hinckley Jr., as "someone who could get upset and angry enough about the political system to use a bullet to cancel out the ballot." Kevin Tucker, special agent in charge ofthe Secret Service office here, said the U. S. attorney declined prosecution in the case after an inves­tigation showed Manno, 23, "did not advocate violence."-AP 
Partly cloudy, breezy, and warm today with highs in the upper 60s to low 70s. Variable cloudiness and mild later today with a 50 percent chance ofscattered thunderstorms. Lows today in the mid 4Us. Rain ending tomorrow morning and highs in the upper 50s to the low60s. -AP 
1981: A Disabled Year 


For the Chinese, every year is a year for something ­either the The Year of the Monkey or The Year of the Dog or some other revered animal. Well, America also has its "years," and they are proclaimed annually by the General Assembly ofthe United Nations. 
The Assembly began the decade last year with the International The Year ofthe Child. 1981, however, has been deemed the International Year of the Disabled Person. 
Fr. Hesburgh, who has earned a reputation for consis­tently striving for human rights on a global level, must be complimented for his stance on this year. He recent­ly proclaimed, "Somehow the disabled have been for­gotten in our concern for human rights. They are indeed part of the community entitled to the full range ofhuman rights that we have proclaimed for others." 
The University is batting well in this arena. Most buildings on campus, excepting some ofthe older dor­mitories, have facilities such as wheelchair ramps or elevators accessible to the handicapped. Fr. Hesburgh has also pledged University support and cooperation with the UN's Year pick. 
In February, we received a press release which men­tioned that distinguished persons in the academic field sciousness of area residents and allowing them to see that disabled persons can flow into the mainstream of society -only if society will allow them. Other projects include a seminar relating law to the hand­icapped. 
Law supposedly is another can of worms. Disabled people are also entitled to their legal rights -such as fair trials, hearings and the like. Problems stem from two directions, with one in that a crippled person literally may not be able to get to court. The other oc­curs when a disabled person is charged with an offense which would be considered a crime for a non-disabled person, but merely a gesture ofselfdefense on the part ofthe disabled person. 

who are physically disabled Many disabled people car­would be invited to lecture ry weapons since they are here. The University also 
such easy prey for thieves. formed a special committee 
Suppose, for example, that a for the physically hand­
crippled person ended upicapped, with concerns cen­
shooting someone -an in­tered on the problems of 
nocent bystander -be­their education. This com­cause he or she thought the mittee has also met with lo­person to be a thie[ How call universities and can a case like this be 

organizations. 
brought into the courts? Self South Bend, also involved defense versus involuntarywith the Year, has its own manslaughter must posecouncil to sponser activities tremendously difficult legaland fundraisers and foster an questions. 

awareness of disabled per­But then there is the other 
sons in conjunction with the side of coin. Can a personnational proclamation. 
who, for instance, em­As far as awareness goes, bezzled money or set up a community organizations mail fraud scheme and justemphasize that disabled per­happens to be in a wheel­


sons should not be denied employment. Disabled per­sons do, in fact, work more conscientiously at their jobs since they must overcome many more obstacles to ini­tially obtain employment than the non-disabled person will ever have to face. 
A few years ago, I am told, at one Michigan university, a group of disabled persons published a newsletter en­titled The Handicappers. This publication reportedly advocated the viewpoint that non-disabled persons were only "temporarily able-bodied," according to my source. This group based its philosophy on the premise that anyone could become disabled -regardless. Even though not statistically threatening or plausible, dis­ability is not something one has any control over, so they pointed out. These people believed that they were almost fortunate to be disabled because they did not rely on arms or legs -depending on their disabilities -and had learned to accept and make the best oftheir limitations. Such optimism can only be admired. 
Clifford Fiodalis, who presides over South Bend's 
IYDP council, holds the objective of raising the con-chair really get an objective jury? The jury might be overly sympathetic -if human nature has its way ­and deliver a nominal sentence on the defendant while a non-disabled person committing an identical crime would be punished more severely. 
The Year, however, is attempting to deal with ques­tions such as these. And in order to begin to answer such questions, the questions must first be asked. Fr. Hesburgh must be commended for his willingness to cooperate with the General Assembly's proclamation. Anyone who would like more information on the local IYDP council may contact the organization at 233­
7860. 
Observer notes._______, 
The Observer is always looking for new reporters. Experience is not necessary. Ifyou are interested in writing, visit our offices, third floor LaFortune, and talk to one ofour news editors about getting started. 

>--The_Ohseryer_ Design Editor ...................... Maura Murphy Design Assistants .............. Lisa Bontempo Elizabeth Clay Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor........................ Tim Vercellotti Copy Edttor............................ Valeri<: Evans Sports Copy Editor ............... Gary Grasscy Typists ............................. MicheUe Kelleher Mike Monk ND Day Editor ...................... Molly Woulfe SMC DayEditor....................... Cece Baliles Ad Design ............................... Woody & Co. Photographer ............................ Rudy Perez Guest Appearances .............................. Tuco A lilbit mole Boss Bo Trivial others  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS publ1shed Monday through Fr~day except durmg exam and vacatiOn periods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sam! Mar{s Colle'ge. Subscr~pt1ons may be purchased for $30 per year ($15 per semester) by wr1tmg The Ob­server, P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. In· d1ana 46556 The Observer 1s a member of the Assoc1ated Press. All reproductiOn r~ghts are reserved.  

The Xaverian Brothers at NO 

Peter Mahoney CFX  8759  
Ronald Walent CFX  3703  
James Field CFX  8801  
Kenneth McCarthy CFX  3293  
Bonaventure Scully CFX  6322  

Cordially invite the Alumni of the 
Xaverian Schools: St. John's H.S. Shrewsbury, Mo. St. John's Prep Danvers, Ma. Malden Catholic Malden, Mo. 
XBHS Westwood, Mo. Xavier H.S. Middletown, Conn. St. Josgph RHS Montvale, N.J. 
Xaver ian H.S. Brooklyn, N.Y. 
Mt. St. Joe Baltimore, Md. Good Counsel H.S. Wheaton, Md. Ryken H.S. Leonardtown, Md. St. Xavier H.S. Louisville, Ky. 

to a Happy Hour Reception in the Commoner Flanner Hall 4-6 April 9 RSVP-call one of us. 

cho,.. earlier tht!l 1 anounced at the tt.~. Saturday night, will rt:-.~ honoray plaque, and national a-. claim. 
Highlighting the: weekend will be the Friday night "Judges' Jam" in which the judges get together and combine their talents In jazz im­provlzatlon. This year's pro's in­cludeJoe Farrdl, a multi-reed player 
19th century young women in songs 
"The Maids of Dear Columbia: images of Young Women in 19th Century Parlor Songs" Is the topic of a lc:cture to be presented by <:aroline Moseley at Saint Mary's College on Wednesday, AprilS. The talk, whih hegins at 7:30p.m. in Car­roll Hall, is open to the public with· out chargl'. 
Moseley Is the ao;sociate editor of "New Jersey Folklore" and serves as secretary for the: New Jersey Folklore Society. She holds a B.A. in English Literature from Radcliffe College and an M.A. in Folklore from th University of Pennsylvania 
and largesl -.. 
begins this Friday .... 

the N.D. Jazz Ensemble, dttt.~ 
Fr. George Wiskirchen. Four other 
bands will follow, as well as the JudgesJam. 
Saturday's action, beginning at 12:30p.m., will include five bands also, as will the Saturday night ses· sion. An added feature on Saturday night will be the performance oftwo high school bands; the winners of the Clay High school festival. Anoth· er Notre Dame group, the jazz Com­bo, will compete on Saturday afternoon, and according to Griffen, will be a strong CO{Iterdcr. 
Admission fees for the event off· set by T-shirt sales before and d~ring the feslval are as follows: Friday night -SS; Saturday afternoon ­S2.'50; and Saturday night -S4.00. A student weekend plan is also available for S7.SO, which will be valid for all three sessions. 
Since this festival is the finest ofits kind, Griffen encourages everyone to go and insists that the fest is "a good way to expose yourself to many different types ofjazz and have a good time doing it." 

,.so 
..so 

Richard Dauis Joe 

e are asking all concerned to weigh the unpredictable conse­quences ofesc t alation," the official, 
acres thought to be on fire now, 
who asked anonymity, said after the OSM says. More hom.es would be 

Haig arrived in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia to a tree root and was pulled threatened. U.S. Ambassador John Gunther out immediately, escaping injury. The OSM is trying to find a way to 
Dean met with Sarkis last night and put out the fire and is due to make a

"It's neighbor really fighting in Beirut Ambassador Talcott Seelye neighbor," said Flo Domboski, recommendationJuly 1. is expected to seek an appointment Todd's mother. "Some don't want to today with with Syrian President
One resident, insisting her name not be used, said it's wrong to make

move. Some do." Hafez Assad in Damascus, he said. "I'd vote against relocating," Amar people cast votes before there's a Officials in Haig's entourage
Anyone interested should apply 
Marvine said of the plan while stop­specific plan for relocating. warned Monday that the Israeli ping in at the post office. "There's "What are we going to vote for? If government was under "greatwe're not careful, we're going to get
through Student Activities 

not enough information on the ex­pressure" to intervene in support of tent of the fire. Very likely, it dummied out of everything we the Lebanese Cltristians . 
Deadline -April 10·

• own," she said, sitting' in a com­
wouldn't get over to this side of The Israelis support the Christians fortable home in the heart of town.
town." because they oppose the presence Sandy Lupatsky said she would of Palestinian guerrillas in Lebanon.
"I wouldn't give this house up for a move her family, if then: were trailer. No way." . lt money to relocate. "I'm afraid ... they're going to wait too long, and
INTRODUCING 

somebody might get killed," she 
JfD{ic~imm ~ 
said. 
• • • Tenure

"There's no words to describe the anguish you go through," said Dave 



~J\lJ\~~ 

Lamb, who recently learned that his continuedfrom page 1 mitted to join the parties as a plantiff9-year-old daughter cannot come
ADVERTISE FREE AS MANY ARTICLES AS YOU WISH 
because of alledged discriminationhome from his sister-in-law's house

PAY IF AND ONLY WHEN YOU SELL 

must now be notifit:d ofthe terms of against the women in regards tobecause gases from the fire ag­
Private Owners Only 

the proposed settlement. salary, pension benefits, fringe
gravate her asthma. 
The suit is a combination of two · benefits, assignments and other

Pick up your copy of the First Issue April 10 from your neighbo~hood 
Now gas has been detected at the separate class-action suits. One was employment policies.
stores or from our office at 1717 E. South Bend Ave., Swte E, 
aunt's home, too. "It's bad, believe filed by Josepine Ford and Elisabeth Yesterday, Judge Sharp dismissed
South Bend, Indiana 46637. 
me," Lamb said. 
Fiorenza and included all tenured t~e EEOC from the suit. The pension
Write or call 277-8521 to place your ads. 

The U.S. Office ofSurface Mining, female faculty employed after 1974; issues, however, remain in the suit
Deadline for accepting ads for our April 24th issue is Friday, April 17. 
the agency charged with dealing the other by Ms. Frese included all even with the proposed settlement,with the fire, has said it must be ex­
SPECIAL INTRODUCTORY OFFER 
tenured ·and non-tenured female subject to action taken on a nationaltinguished to keep it from threaten­faculty employed after 1978. level by the EEOC and other univer­

Advertise for two weeks free 
ing a much larger area. 

The suits were consolidated last sities or colleges relating to pen­Jf left unattended, as many as
in our April 24th issue even if you sell. 
spring and t!Ie Equal Employment sions.

1,500 acres underground could be 
Opportunity Commission was per-Also, a similar settlement thatengulfed, compared to an estimated won't require court approval is being worked out for Ford and Fiorenza. 


~ final hearing on the settlement is set for July 9. Class members have until five business days before that to file any objections to the proposed settlement. 


It is expected that Judge Sharp will give final approval to the plan at that hearing subject to any objec­tions raised. 
A NOTRE DAME SAINT MARY'S THEATRE PRESENTATION 
WASHINGTON HALL, APRIL 3, 4, 9, 10'& 11, ·AT 8,00 PM 
• • . Life 

ADMISSION IS S3; ND, SMC STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
PAY S2. 50. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION PHONE 284-4176 
continuedfrom page 1 
declaring, in essence, that living things can be owned and patented. "The decision gives free reign to private property rights in regard to living things," says Smith. 
Mr. Smith is the Research Director for the People's Business Commis­sion, an organization which has done extensive research and writing on genetic engineering, 'including the book, Who Shall Play God? He was instrumental in the writing ofa legal brieffor the Supreme Court in a recent case involving the patenting oflife. 





-----------------------------------------------------------·------------------------------­The Observer Wednesday, AprilS, 1981 --page 5 

Problems put preparations 10 Sunday because a 48-hour tur· this country back to work." hours behind in the finely tuned naround period is required once countdown to launch. fuel ha'i been pumped into the tanks. 
In the Senate, meanwhile, the 





1 IRISH COUNTRY I
Schick said six hours would be Air Force weathermen predicted 
Budget Committee, controlled by
borrowed from a future "hold" in generally fair skies Friday, the tem­
Republicans, voted along party lines 
the t:ountdown -a period when no perature about 70 and surface winds 
to adopt a set of economic predic­
I Country Ribs I
activity is scheduled -and added to of I 0 to 12 mph -11-14 knots. 
tions endorsed by the administra­
the planned eight-hour hold yester· From the beginning, the coun­tion. 
day. This would provide a total 14 down work laggt:d. 

I Dinner Special I
hours to clear the back-up and put First, an engine valve popped 
Basically, the panel accepted the
the countdown back on schedule. open without command. This was 
forecasts the Reagan administration
To get accustomed to an early fixed when technicians found and 
is using to demonstrate the positive 
I Wednesday 6 Thursday I
wake-up on launch day, astronauts bypa'ised a short circuit in the 
effects it claims its program will
John Young and Robert Crippen electrical system. 
have on the economy next year and
have been gradually adjusting their Then, a valve In the ground sup­
I 5 pm-I am I
beyond.
sleep cycles -going to bed earlier port equipment leaked and the three and getting up earlier each day. Last hours it took to replace idled most I I 
By identical 12·9 votes, the panel
Saturday, wakeup wa'i 4:45 am. On launch workers. I Ribs, fries, Roll -$4.99 I
rejected a more pessimistic projec­
Sunday it was 4: I5. On Monday 3:45. Then, early yesterday, overnight 
tion by the economists of the Con­
On Thursday and launch day the call crews found contaminants in the gas 
gressional Budget Office and
wlll come at 2:05 a.m. lines to Columbia's fuel cells. 



I sr.oo off I
adopted the figures being used by
The Columbia is the first spaces· Workmen had to repeat a seven­the Reagan administration. 
hip designed to make repeated trips hour effort to purify the lines, and by 
I with this coupon I
into space. noon the hoses -which carry Although he supported the move,
As launch day moved closer, gaseous oxygen and nitrogen ­space agency officials worried about were dedared clean. 
Sen. William L. Armstrong, R-Colo., 


'----------------~ 




In Middle East 
Jordan sees Israeli threat 
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia (AP)-Jor· Mldea'it peace depends on a total Is· 
handled by the United Nations. danian leaders, unresponsive to U.S. raeli withdrawal from occupied 
President Reagan has denounced 
warnings of a Soviet threat in the Arab lands. the PLO as a terrorist organization. Middle Ea'it, told Secretary of State "Israel's intransigent policies and Haig did not comment on the Alexander M. Haigjr. yesterday that daily aggression against the Pales­
foreign minister's remarks, but an­"Israeli aggression" poses the prime tinian people and the systematic other senior U.S. official described danger in the n:glon. confiscation ofArab land," as well as 
them as the "standard line" for Haig, who U.S. officials said hoped its actions in south Lebanon, where 
regional consumption. "It really isn't to build a "strategic consensus" In It supports anti-Palestinian Christian anything different." the area against Soviet Intentions, fighters, will lead to "a more dan­
Although Haig is understood to be was expected to hear the same gerous and volatile situation" in the willing to listen to alternative strong anti-Israeli mcssage from offi· region, Kassem said. proposals for Mideast peace, thcjor­
clals in Saudi Arabia. The Jordanian minister. whose llanian position "is a partial and in­The secretary ofstate flew here on king plans to visit Moscow next adequate response to the message the la'it leg of a four-nation Mideast month, made no mention ofa Soviet 
that you've got to have some con­tour after a 24 hour stop in Amman, threat to the region. structive alternatives," said this offi­Jordan, where he conferred with U.S. officials denied this amounted cial, who asked not to be identified. 
King Hussein. He !caves Riyadh for to a public rebuke, and Haig Western Europe on Wednesday. declared there wa'i "an essential 
While in Amman, the Halg party convergence ofviews" betweenJor· issued an urgcnt new appeal for an danian leaders and himself on end to thc fighting in Lebanon be­"strategic and regional matters." 

Budget committee 
twecn Syrian troops and Lebanese Hassem reaffirming Jordan's Christian militias. rejection of the U.S.-sponsored With Haig by his sidc at an airport Camp David peace process. told 

rejects GOP plan
dt·parturt: ccremony in Amman, jor­Haig the United States should dan's forcign minister, Marwan al recognize the Palestine Liberation Ka'iscm, said the U.S. secretary of Organization a'i the representative WASHINGTON (AP) The noted that "to bet the ranch on this state had been told in "a clear, direct of the Palestinian people, and said House Budget Committee dealt kind of assumption troubles meand amicable: manner" that a peace negotiations should be 
President Reagan his biggest con­greatly." gressional defeat to date yesterday a'i it dumped his budget blueprint in The House panel took its action favor of a Democratic alternative over the solid opposition ofoutnum­
Space shunle suffers 
with smaller deficits and tax cuts, bered Republicans as Speaker more spending on social programs Thomas P. O'Neill predicted that and Jess on defense. House Democrats would be able to pass their own plan on the floor as
another launch delay 
well.
Vice President George Bush declared the action unacceptable
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -the weather. Mission rules require Democrats in the House are ur­
and vowed, "If we're going to have
Launch crews sacrificed a full-shift that the launch be scrubbed if head ging slightly deeper budget cuts 
some battles on the House side,
rest period yesterday as back·to· winds and cross winds are stronger than Reagan wants overall, and
we're prepared to do it."
back problc:ms created a 10-hour than 10 knots at Cape Canaveral's recommend a balanced budget in logjam of work to prepare the new 15,000-foot shuttle landing strip -1983, a year ahead ofthe president. space shuttle: Columbia for lift-off at in the case the Columbia runs into 
Blanketed by Secret Service dawn on Friday. trouble achieving orbit and has to agents, Bush told an impromptu They also reject the administra­"We're taking a little longer to return. 
news conference at the Capitol, "We tion's proposal for a three year, make sure it's right," said test dlrec· If weather or other problems across-the-board cut in income
understand people doing their own tor Bill Schick. "At this time there is delay the launch more than six 
thing, but we are determined that taxes, substituting a less expensive no trouble meeting a launch at 6:50 hours beyond schedule Friday, the this package that the president has one year plan instead. 
a.m. (EST) Friday." lift-off is likely to be delayed until proposed will get a chance and get 
Important mandatory meeting for all OBSERVER Reporters 
TODAY 




6:30 

The Student Union is looking for 
Chautauqua Coffeehouse Manager 
• 
Paid Position 

• 
Book Bands 


• Oversee Shows No Experience necessary 

Applications at Student Union Office Due April 1Oth 


Go Professional With a Calculator From Hewlett-Packard 

PO BOX 13.-7­
SOUTH BEND. IN .U2• (219) 233-3175 



15% Discount off list Price to Students & Professors 
F!...,. HEWLETT 
....,..... PACKARD 

-


Editorials 
Wednesday, April 8, 1981 -page 6 
"All the King's Men" 

P.O. Box Q 
Well, now that the nation can breathe a collective sigh ofreliefat what appears to be an excellent recovery ofthe president from the injuries sustained in last week's as­sassination attempt, we must look at the ramifications of the attack and try to learn something from it. I'm afraid that the country won't learn much of anything from it, as evidenced by the usual calls for gun control made by certain columnists that will soon fade without an ounce of action being taken. If I ever make one predic­tion that I would be certain will come true, it would be that there will be no action taken on the gun control issue, and people will stop talking about it in a few weeks, un­til there is another attack, success­ful or not, on a famous person. It is strange that this attack did little, if anything, to change the opinions of most people on gun control, espe­cially in light ofthe Lennon slaying only a few months before. 
last week's incident will only serve to further deaden the sen­sibilities ofthe American populace and make such violence even more palatable in the future. I still don't think enough people realize exact­ly what could have happened, and what would have been the ramifications. But we can be thank­ful that the President survived and wish him a pleasant recovery. 
But... there is still business. One of the unfortunate and inevitable results ofthe assassination attempt will be a relaxed attitude on the part of the media in the coverage and criticism ofReagan, his people, and his programs, out ofa sense of respect and sympathy, and also in the spirit of "not kicking a man when he is down." This is an ad-
Doonesbury 

mirable desire, but in this world of polarized political positions and the realities of day to day political life, no such honeymoon is pos­sible. And, as I have grave disagree­ments with the current administration on several points of policy, the reality ofaddressing the issues precludes waiting until the president resumes his normal duties. So, it's back to the politics. 
One interesting development of the assassination attempt was in the media coverage of the inci­dent. Before the shooting, I had planned to do a column on the symbolic aspects of the Reagan ad­ministration. Coverage of the president has been curiously respectful, even for the traditional I 00-day honeymoon period nor­mally given a new president. One aspect of this that sticks out in my mind is the portrayal of Reagan by magazines like Time. Why is 
Reagan always posed in some regal posture, for example with his horse and jodhpurs, while Carter was constantly caricatured? If Reagan is on the cover of Time it will be in a stunning color portrait that belies his 70 years, with a smile that seems to be saying "Don't worry, things are going to be just fine." Over the past year, whenever Carter was on the cover ofTime, it was as some sort ofbig­teethed peanut farmer, or else a haggard executive fretting over Iran and several other problems. 
Coverage of the Reagan assas­sination attempt was interesting because Reagan was said to have walked into the emergency room and joked with the doctors, then to have been up signing bills and moving around the next day. Amazing for a seventy year old 
Garry Trudeau 



Anthony Walton 
Outside Wednesday 
man, but not completely true. Now 
come the reports of Reagan taking 
a few steps and collapsing, then 
being helped into the room, and 
tales of how he lost one-third to 
half his blood, which would seem 
to hinder such chipper behavior. 
Also, Dr. Dennis O'Leary has now 
stated that he tried to give the 
brightest possible picture of 
Reagan's condition "without 
lying." This was probably in the 
best interests ofthe country, but it 
also helps further Reagan's John 
Wayne tough guy image, which is 
not in the best interests of the 
country. 
't:his may seem unimportant, but 
such portrayal creates a sort of 
false hero myth that is unap­
plicable in the real world, because 
although it makes good press it 
contributes to a 'cowboy' men­
tality that creates false expecta­
tions. All of this will boost Reagan 
immensely in the popularity polls, 
and will ease considerably any 
resistance to several of -his 
programs. Perhaps Reagan is the 
new national hero that this 
country needs, but this position 
should be earned, not bestowed by 
the media. 
Another aspect of the "jodhpur 
episode" bothers me about the 
Reagan administration. While 
Reagan is out riding horses and 
posing for pictures, the White 
House is embroiled in a dispute be­
tween George Bush and Alexander 
Haig over the crisis management 
team chairmanship. Reagan simply 
read a statement off of an index 
card, then got on his horse and 
rode off. It seems to me that 
Reagan could have been in the 
White House presiding over the 
dispute, instead of showing how 
vigorous he still is at his age. The 
problem is not so much that 
Reagan was not there, but that ifhe 
is not going to be the kind ofpresi­
dent that Carter was, deeply 
embroiled in each issue in the 
White House (something that may 
have worked against Carter), then 
the competency of his cabinet 
members and staff becomes cru­
cial. 
I like several members of the 
Reagan cabinet, and I'm most 
impressed with a few, most notab­
ly Donald Regan at Treasury. But I 
have my doubts about several, 
James Watt for instance, the 
Secretary of Interior whose ap­
pointment smacks of putting the 
fox in charge of guarding the hen­
house. Watt's personal opinions on 
the development offederal land do 
not appear to be environmentally 
oriented. He has already opened 
up certain beach areas in Northern 
California for offshore oil explora­
tion and potential drilling that had 
previously been considered en­
vironmentally hazardous. He is 
also a proponent of returning 
much of the federal land holding 
over to the jurisdiction of the 
states, which could then sell or 
Chairman Feikes 


puts up fight 
DearEditor: 
I agree that children playing with toy guns may associate these with the real thing, but I would assume that a Notre Dame student would have a better grip on reality. When we started the Mass Assas­sins game, we never considered that anyone would contend that the dart guns used would lead to the real thing. We also did not con­sider we would be treated like children. And children -or Notre Dame -will progress from dart guns to BB guns to Saturday night specials. 
When we decided to run Mass Assassins we thought it would be nothing more than good fun. Anyone who thinks otherwise of the game should analyze the 500 people who have participated in it. We consider this game a cathectic experience, not training for future deviance. Dr. Bettelheim says of the game in precise scientific terms, "It is pretty sick." I guess we have 500 pretty sick students roaming the campus, not to men­tion the over 200 other people who wanted to play and the off­campus students who we did not let play. 
Let me not contend that Assas­sins is without problems. This is the first year we have run the game. There have been problems, and some people have broken Uni­versity rules. The seriousness of the violations gets worse, however, as rumors float around campus. With more communica­tion between us and the Ad­ministration, the game could run even more smoothly next year. 
One final word about com­munication. I did not find out about the proposed cancellation of Assassins until I read The Observer on Monday. I have never talked with Dean Roemer on the matter, but have been in constant contact with Jim McDonnell. The request to cut Assassins was made by Dean Roemer without any input from students. In essence, he is making a one-man decision. 
But Assassins will not die with­out a fight, and until we are threatened with expulsion for carrying dart guns in public or semi-public places, we will con­tinue. 
Mitchell D. Feikes An Tostal Chairman South Bend 


Meat sacrifice tests faith 
DearEditor: 
As a parent who subscribes by mail to The Observer, please par­don my late response to a letter 
• from a Paul T. Schweitzer, who complains that he has no choice at ND since no meat was served on 
Ash  Wednesday.  He  cannot,  he  
says,  practice  Catholicism  by  
choosing not to eat meat.  

Perhaps "Logic I" is no longer taught to freshmen as I took it at my Catholic university in I957-58. According to his premise, Yeshiva University's cafeteria should cook pork chops and bacon and Brig­ham Young should serve pots of steaming coffee each morning. This so practicing Jews and Mor­mons could choose to be faihful to the tenets oftheir religion. 
IfMr. Schweitzer wants a secular atmosphere, why doesn't he go to his local State U. and save his parents some money. I, for one, think it would be a scandal for ND to serve meat on Ash Wednesday. 
Working StiffMother South Orange, Nj 

devdop the lands at their discre­of some private policy it raises tion. Watt is a proud member of grave questions about the the Sagebrush Rebellion, a move­"morality"of the administration. ment whose avowed goal is to rid This also illustrates my point about the Far West of the Federal the lack of hard media coverage Government controls over land given the Reagan administration. I and water management. And his seem to remember Andrew Young job is, among other things, to being hounded out of office be­manage the Federal land holdings. cause of similar verbal indiscre­A slight conflict ofinterest? tions that did not reflect Carter 
Then there is James Edwards, policy. Why hasn't there been the secretary of Energy, and Mal­similar scrutiny on these state­colm Baldridge, the secretary of ments? Commerce, who have both made The press would probably ex­statements in recent weeks that plain this in terms ofthe traditonal did not get the attention they presidential honeymoon or a deserved in the news. Edwards: weariness on the part of the "Because of the black influence in American public for bad news. American politics the white Success for the American system, government of South Africa has however, is predicated upon the never received the understanding press' utilization of its powers to and sympathy it deserves." inform, not to create or lend to Baldridge: "Congress should images. Watergate is the best ex­repeal the restrictions ~gainst cor­ample ofthis. It is the White House porate bribery in other countries Press Service's job to make the because it goes against the time­president and other administration honored practice of greasing officials look good. palms." Both ofthese statements (I hope) do not reflect the goals of Anthony Walton's column ap­the present administration's public pears weekly on The Observer posture, and if they are indicative editorials page. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 



==Ihe-Obsaver== 
Editor-in-Chief.. .... ............... ... .John McGrath SMC Executive Editor ............ ......Mary Agnes Carey
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 . 
.Wanaging Editor.......... ..........................Tom jackman SMC News Editor ................................Cathy Domanico
The Observer is an independenr newspaper published by the students d rhe 
Photo Editor...................................................)ohn Macor University of Notre Dame duLac and Sainr Mary's College. lr does nor nece~~anh 
Executir•e Neu•s F:'ditor. ······················-····Lynne Daley 
.Vews Editor.......... . ...........................Tim Vercdlotti . reflect the policies of the admmistratwn of en~er mswuuon. The news 1s reponed Neu•s Editor. . ........................ .John Higgins Business Manager .................................... Rich Coppola · as accurately and as objectively as poss1ble. Ednonals represent the op1111011 •>I a Senior Copy Editor..... . ... Mary Fran Callahan Controller....................................................... .)oe Mulftur majonry of the Editorial Board. _Commenranes, opm10ns. and_ letters are the v1ew~ Sports Editor......... ...... Mit-had Ortman 
Advertising Manager ......................................Mark Ellis 
Features F:'ditor. ............... . . .......Rick Hermida Production Manager ................... Ryan Ver Berkmoes Circulation Manager ........................Tom Maclennan 
of their authors. Column space IS available to all members ot the commun1ry. and 
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. 1s encouraged. 



The Observer_-=_---==== 


~c:»cJlC3l~============================W=e=d=n=es=d=~=';A=p=ri=l8=,=1=9=8=1===pa=g=e~7
Molarity 
------------------~ 



The Daily Crossword 

© 1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
. ' 

This Saturday 
7:30PM Notre Dame A.C.C. 
adml..lon: $7.00 (lower arena) $6.00 (bleachers) $2.00 discount youths ( 16& under) & senior citizens 
on sale: Notre Dame ACC M-Sa 9-5 Robertson'siSouth Bend & Concord Ma I) St. Joseph Bani! ht Bank Elkhart Truth 

ND/Smc Students & StaH J2 oH 

ACROSS 32-as pos­1 Off key sible 5 Desert 35 Comic Bert 
transport 36 Fatherof 10 Seethe Jupiter 14 Make over 38 "-clear 15 St. Johns day" 16 Henry 39 Certain 
VIII's wife put-ons 17 Unique 40 Hokkaldo 19 Kind of seaport 
dance 41 -Woods 20 Braggart (redwood 21 Thorough In forests) 
treatment 42 Wrath 23 Youthful 43 Football ending team 25 Cltyon 44 Johnson 
theOka of T.V. 26 Trod the 45 -of(In­boards numerable) 29 Based: abbr. 47 Born 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
• 
4/1/81 

A 0 0 L E. CAP P. LAM A RDYAL.ARGO.I BEX A L A S K A N M A L A MIU T E 
IL ENIS.LO~II!!IL I~~ 

••• IRAN"CUDS
MARTIN~DATA DAB AFOUL.TOTEiiiL I LY G 0 L 0 E N R E T R I E V E R ERY.SNARE S PAINTS 
0 BARN-I OSTEIAL• TIC.GALA S C 0 T T I S H TIER R I E R SARA. THE E. TARS I ATE E• Y EIW s•E 0 S E L 
4/8/81 



Michael Molinelli 
WOW/DO ALL DoLPHINS PLAY BA5KErBALL 

48 Anatomical 13 Advance 
loops 18 Deficit 49 Actress 22 Islands of Thompson Ireland 51 Commonor 24 Spruceup 
proper 26 Actor Delon 53 Rigid ruler 27 City on the 57 Klndof Nile 
benefit 28 "Daysof 61 Mine: Fr. our years 62 Pair are-years 64 Starch root and ten" 65 Winged 30 Chair rung 66 -Instant 31 Soup server 
(like a 33 Miss Louise 
shot) 34 Sidewalk 67 Sobelt show 68 Golf cup 36 Hurok 69 Ibsen 37 Operate 
heroine 41 Dummy 43 Norse poem DOWN collection 1 Kermit, 46 Country 
for one 48 Emanation 2 Miss Horne 50 Petal 3 Fruit fragrance 
drinks 52 Set before 4 Bread 53 Info burners 54 Islamic 
5 Nucleusof prayer trained leader personnel 55 Like a 
6 Fuss night bird 7 Set right 56 Path 8 She: Fr. 58 Lad: Sp. 9 Stopthe 59 Growl 
steamer 60-May 10 Infants Oliver 11 Abjectly 63 Inhabitant: 12 Concerning suff. 


Campus 
• 10 a.rn.-4 p.m. -blood pressure clinic; free testing, lemans lobby, sponsored by smc nurses. 
•12: 
15 p.m. -lecture; title ix & ncaa-alaw women's sports, donna a. lupiano, pres. of aiaw & athletic director of texas u., law school basement lounge. 

•12:
I 5 p.m. -microbiology seminar; structure & regulation of the thymidine kina.o;c gene of herpes simplex virus, dr. mic­hael wagner, yale u., gavlvin auditorium. 

•12: 
15 p.m. -lenten mass; fr. griffin, Iafortune rathskdlcr, all welcome. 

•12:30 
p.m. -care slide show; cast african hunger and refugee crisis, Iafortune little theatre, east afrk:an awan·ncss week. 

•2-'; 
p.m. -tax assistance program; Iafortune studl·nt cen­ter. 

• 
3:30 p.m. chemistry le<.:turc; future of the research university. cornelius j. pings. calif. inst. tech., 356 fitzpatrick. 

•4 
p.m. -film; whatever hap­pened 10 the human race, seg­ment iii, 327 madclcva, respect life week. 

•4 
p.m. -lecture; amcrkan now: a cultural matl·rialist perspective, marvin harris, u. of florida, 122 hayes-healy. 

•4:20 
p.m. -physics collo­quium; exactness of nuclear field theory, dr. d. h. feng, drexel u., 118 nsh. 

•6-8 
p.m. -water polo; rockne memorial pool, an tostal. 

•6-8 
p.m. -death awareness seminar; smc career develop­ment ctr., call 284-4431 to register. 

•7, 
10 p.m.-film, my fair lady, engr. auditorium, $1 admission. 

•7:30 
p.m. -respect life week; capital punishment: death in a democratic society, nd law profS, mem. library auditorium. 

•7:30 
p.m. -lecture; women's sports & role models, donna a. Iopiano, texas u., ace monogram room. 

•7:30 
p.m. -lecture, job op­portunities for liberal arts majors in the petroleum in­dustry, mr. gordon kirk, 124 hayes-healy. 

•s 
p.m. -debut pcrti>rmance; abiogenesis dance collective, Iafortune ballroom. 

•s 
p.m. -lecture; american music in the 19th century, caroline mosely, princeton u., carroll hall ( smc ). 

•s:
15 p.m. -lecture; churches & the amerkan indian: the mis­sion school controversy, n·v. francis p. prucha, s.j., marquette U., 100-104 CCC. 



ATTENTION ALL CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS Can You Believe It?? 
Club re-registration for 1981-82 is now taking place at Student Activities, 1st floor LaFortune. 
1. 
Annual registration form for 1981-82. 

2. 
Report of Abtivities. 


13. Financial Statement for 1980-81 1, 2 and 3 must be completed by all student clubs in order to 
retain status of recognition and all its benefits, including 
funding from Student Activities Fee, eligibility for concession 
stands, and use of University facilities. 
j 

Pick up and return forms by Friday, May 1, 1981. 
-
The Observer 

• • . Stability 
The talented crop of incoming
continuedfrompage 12 

freshman will undoubtedly press for playing time as well, but Meyers
replacement for Coach Yonto. It won't plan a depth chart around that
hasn't been a difficult adjustment for possibility.
Bill at all." 

"I'd like to believe that we haveBut Meyers' hardest chore lies the best recruits in the nation com­ahead. Losses due to graduation and ing in, but I still think it's hard toinjuries have depleted the line's speculate on how a high school foot­
depth, and the front four will be the 
ball player is going to react to the
least experienced unit on 'defense. 
college environment.

The lettermen returning, however, "Some of them, for instance, Tim have the makings ofan impermeable Marshall or Stacey Toran, they risesquad. 
to the top immediately. But it'sJuniors Pat Kramer ( 6-4, 251 
tough to predict who's going to bepounds) and Joe Gramke ( 6-4, 246) 
mature enough physically and men­and freshman Tim Marshall ( 6-4, tally to step in and start."
240) will contend for the tackle Characteristic of a Notre Damepositions. All boast starting creden­defense, then, it will be the veteranstials, Kramer debuting in 10 games, the coaches will depend on to bringGramke six, and Marshall two. 
things together on the line next"Kramer and Gramke have been 
season.

playing real well this spring," notes "I can't really say right now which:\!eyers. "Marshall has been a bit position or player will be the key tosporadic because of some injuries. 
the line next fall," Meyers explains. 
but we're looking for him to do great "But Saturday's scrimmage will tellthings." 
me a lot." 

Two-year letter winner Jeff 
IRISH ITEMS -Sophomore John
Lut:ken is also in the picture. The 6­Skronski has been moved from quar­S. 239-pound junior has been terback to defensive tackle andmoved from the end position in or­ciassmate Eddie Hornback has beender to give the line some depth. 
switched from defensive back toFreshman Jerry Weinle (6-3, 230) wide receiver.
has been impressive as well. "He 
( W einle) has made some nice strides this week, as has Bob Clasby and Tom Bock," adds Meyers. Celtics build 
A real question mark remains concerning the defensive ends. A 
two-game edge

pair of vacancies due to graduation has paved the way for tremendous competition. Four freshmen are bat­over Bulls tling it out this spring. Mansel Carter (6-8, 225) and Mike Liebenstein (6-BOSTON (AP) -The Boston Cel­5, 242 ), as well as converted tics rolled to a 26-point lead early in linebackers Chris Boerner ( 6-3, the second quarter and, behind 1.7 
225) and Jon Autry ( 6-2, 220) are points from Robert Parish and Nate the top candidates. Archibald, withstood a late Chicago 
In addition, junior Tony Belden rally Tuesday night to score a 106­rates future consideration. The 6-2, 97 victory over the Bulls in the 220-pounder is sitting out spring Nationa Basketball Association drills with a wrist injury that caused playoffs Tuesday night. him to miss much of the '80 cam­The victory gave Boston a 2-0 lead paign. but owns the most playing in the best-of-seven Eastern Con­time ofany candidate at end. ference semifinals. 
r•••••••••••....................~ 
i H~VEtt1f. f'AKTM
•
: 200/o off on all plants...
•

: hanging 
floor plant~ flowering plants!
• 

The Plant Specialists : 
•................................• ~ 
i
•:

•:


• 
Wednesday, April 8, 1981 -page 8 

• • .Joyce 
continuedfrom page 12 
to make the squad. 
After graduation, a five-year as­sociation with a Spartanburg accounting firm brought Joyce back into contact with Father Mackin, who once again offered advice and encouragement. 
"In 1942 I finally made up my mind to enter the seminary," he remembers. "I had been thinking about it for a long time. Father Mack in was very instrumental in helping me make my decision. I'd have to say he's been a great influence on my life." 
The young seminarian was torn between remaining in his home state, where there existed a dire need for priests, or returning to Notre Dame. 
"I decided to come back to Notre Dame because I thought it would give me the opportunity to train many, many more Catholic laymen," he says. "That's wl'!at really led me back here." 

His original aspirations were modest -to live among the under­graduates in a residence hall and teach religion. But, undoubtedly be­cause of his extensive accounting background, Joyce was asked to divide his time between the theol­ogy department and Notre Dame's business office, where he assisted Rev. John Burke, Vice-President in charge of Business Affairs. When Burke became ill in 1949, Joyce became acting Vice-President of Business Affairs. 
Burke regained his health the following spring, and it was decided by University President, Rev. John Cavanaugh and then-Executive Vice-President Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, that Joyce should travel to Europe to pursue an advanced de­gree. 
So, in the fall of 1950 he enrolled at England's Oxford University, where he undertook a P.P.E. (philosophy, political science and economics) course of study, and also played on Oxford's world cham-
GET INVOLVED! 
SERVICES commiSSION APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE FOR THE FOLLOWING POSITIONS: 
=:J Asst. Commissioner 
~ · Free U. Coord. 
~ jBook Exchange Cooll. 
~  Special projects Coor.  
~  Stepan mall Coor.  
~  Refrigerator Rental Coot.  
~  On-Campus mailman  
(Paid Position)  

Applications available at the St"dent Union offlce on the Second Floor of Lafortune. Applications are due Frida , A rlllO. 
pionship basketball team. But, back in South Bend, Burke was again stricken and Notre Dame beckoned. 
"It was a great sign of his dedica­tion to the University that he was willing to return from Oxford after the first year ofa two-year program," says Hesburgh. "He was doing very well and really enjoying himself, but he came back because we need'ed him here." 
Upon his return to Notre Dame, Joyce officially received the title, Vice-President of Business Affairs. When Hesburgh became the Univer­sity's 15th president in 1952, he selected joyce to be his successor as Executive Vice-President, marking the beginning of an era that has prospered for nearly 30 years. 
Tomorrow: Part two. 
... Tourney 
continuedfrom page 10 
There are sad stories inevitably connected with this tournament, and AI Vallorz is one. An ar­chitecture major, Vallorz played in ~ five tourneys. Going into yesterday's 
action, he needed to have his score six points to have the output of his teams total 21. Unfor­tunately, Vallorz' squad lost, the fifth straight year that his dropped its first game. However, the final score was .21-9, and Vallorz ended with a total career team out­put of24 points. Such are the tribula­tions oflife. 
Two scorekeepers, Anne Hanson and Gina Crinello, have begun keeping some private tallies. The two have developed the F.A.B. sys­tem, by which they rate the players in each game on the basis of Face, 
Athletic ability, and Body. Watch for them atyourgame, and check on the current standings. 



The Observer Wednesday, AprilS, 1981 -page 9 
Pass .500 mark 
Irish bats sW'eep past Bethel 
By TIM LARKIN 
Sports Writer 
The Fighting Irish baseball team swept a doubleheader from Bethel Collcgt· 13-I 0 and 11-5 yesterday at Jack Klein field. The triumphs pushed Notre Dame over the .500 mark to I 1-10-1 tiJr the first time this St·ason. 
Once again it was the Irish offenst· which lc:d the way to the victories. Just as in last Saturday's doubleheader with the University of Cininnati, Notre Dame reached double figurt·s in the run column in both games. 
The Irish arc now riding a six game winning streak and have com­plidcd an I I·3 record since their miserable spring trip. 
The first game with lkthel was a pitchers duel for most ofthe contest, until tht· sixth inning. Both clubs scored a pair of runs ,in the first in­ning and Bcthd took a 3·2 lead in the fourth. 
The Pilots began their scoring in the first with two outs when second baseman Jim Speicher singled up tht· middle and first baseman Scott An· dnson drove a Mike Deascy pitch over tht· left field walli(Jr a 2-0 lead. 
Notre Dame came hack with a pair of runs as Mike Jamieson drew a one out walk and Dave Szajko connected for his second home run of the season to left center fidd. 
Bethel regained its lead in the fourth on a Jim Speicher single to left, followed by a stolen base and a double by designated hitter Ken Fox. 
Then came the sixth inning and the hitting barrage. Bethel crossed the plate five times on five hits. After four straight singles and accounted for one run, the big blow came on third baseman jeff Miller's grand slam homer. 
Notre Dame, six runs down and only six outs remaining, appeared to have its win streak on the line. However, Bethel's pitchers forgot where the plate was, the result being five walks in Notre Dame's 11-run sixth inning that saw 14 batters come to the plate. 
Henry Valenzuela, Notre Dame's leading hitter at .439 and RBI leader with 25, singled in two runs to put the Irish ahead at 9·8. The game win­ning play came on slumping Joey Barrows base-clearing, three-run double. 
After the game Irish manager Lar­ry Gallo commented, "Our pitching has been very poor, but we're hitting the ball excellently. However we can't expect to come back like that as we did in the sixth inning all the time and I told the kids that." 
Larry Lacker chalked up his first victory of the season in six ap­pearances when ht· retired Bethel in the seventh, despite allowing two more runs. 
In the second game, Notre Dame got some good pitching from Bryan Smith, who went the distance to record his first victory ofthe year. Smith limited Bethel to four hits. while walking three. 
Smith got stronger as the after­noon went along. After giving up a solo home run to catcher Phil Taylor in the folll"th, Smith sent down the last I 1 Bethel batters in a row, strik­ing out the side in the fifth. 
Offensively the Irish were lead by Jim Montagano, whose .429 batting average is second only to Valen­zuela. Montagano was perfect at the plate with a homerun, triple, double and six RBI. The home run was ofthe grand slam variety and came during a six-run second inning that put the Irish on top for good at 8-2. 
"The guys arc picking up now," said Gallo, "We played well down south hut we just lost some close games. It made the team better if losses can .do that and they got ex­perience from it. 
Notre Dame is cetainly coming in­to its own now but still has a tough schedule ahead. This weekend the · Irish play host to two fine teams as Western Michigan visits Friday after­noon and Xavier comes to town on Saturday. Both matchups will be doubleheaders. 
For prep hoopsters 
Letter of intent day arrives 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AI') -Pat 
Ewing, a gigantically talented teen­
ager. says he'll sign his name today to. 
a ktter ofintent with Georgetown. If 
he docs, the lloyas will kap to the 
threshold of national basketball 
prominence. · 
Whctht·r they cross over to join 
Virginia, North Carolina and others 
who landed Ewing-like prospects 
ami zoomed straight to tht· top 
rt·mains to he seen. 
Hut all day Wednesday, the date 
high st·hool basketball players can 
first sign national letters of intent, 
coaching careers will be swinging 
delicately in the breeze. Also-rans 
may become national contenders in 
an afternoon. 
The nation's No.I j}rospect this 
Basketball 
playerjoins 
football team 
WEST LAFAYElTE, Ind. (AP) One Purdue football player con­spicuous by his presence on the field this spring is senior Roosevelt Barnes, who was tri-captain of tht· Boik·rmaker basketball team this past season before trading his sneakers for a pair ofcleats. 
"For a guy who has not played the game ,(of foothall) in five years, Roscy is doing quite well," says assis­tant coach Mike llankwitz. "But he's a good all-around athlete and all he has to do Is learn more ofwhat we're trying to do. And ht•'s picking it up more every day." 
The 6-3, 200-pound Barnes has bt·en out of football since his high school days at Fort Wayne Wayne, where ht· was all-statt· in both ba'i­kt·tball and football. He's working at tkfensive end during Purdue's spring football practice and has impressed the staff. 
Working with the No.2 defensive unit on Sunday, Barnes intercepted a pass and sprintt·d 40 yards down the sideline or·a tom:hdown. 
year, most everyone agrees, is tt·am. But one basket hall player is 20 Ewing, a seven-footer from percent ofhis team. Cambridge, Mass., who long ago an-Much of the attention is foused nounced his intention to attend this year on an unlikely basketball Georgetown. But that still leaves hotbed -Wichita, Kan., home of Greg Dreiling of Wichita, Kan., who Dreiling and Aubrey Sherrod, a 6-4 stands 7-2 and commands the same guard who's also on everybody's kind of superlatives; Mike Payne, 6-"most wantt·d" list. Botl) youngsters 
10, Quincy, Ill.; Manual Forrest, 6-7, have said they would like to stay Louisville, and Bill Wcnnington, a • home and play for Wichita State. But 
seven-footer from Long Island. 
They and a few others like them 

have b(·en placed in the "super 
prospect" category by most 
recruiters, the type of talent that 
championships arc made of. 
Last year it wa'i Sam Perkins, a cen­tcr from upstate New York. Two years ago, the most sought-after recruit wa~ Ralph Sampson. And it's no coincidence that North Carolina, which got Perkins, and Virginia, Sampson's choice, made· the Final Four of this year's NCAA tourna­mcnt. 
Every year, say coaches and NCAA 
investigators, basketball recruiting 
outstrips foothall in savagery and 
zeal. One player, no matter how 
great, makes up only one twenty­
sec<~ld of a ~~~-pbtoon fi>otball 
Rockets defeat Spurs, take lead in series 
SAN ANTONIO, Tex. (AP) Moses Malone scored 27 points and Calvin Murphy came off the bench to hit 21 Tuesday night as the Hous­ton Rockets continued their Cin­derella march through the NBA · playoff.., by shocking San Antonio 107-98 in the opener of their Wes­tern Conference semifinal series. 
The battle-tested Rockets, who knocked defending champion Los Angeles out of the playoffs with two West Coa'it wins, negated the Mid­west Division champion Spurs' homecourt advantage. 
San Antonio's George Gervin led all scorers with 30 points and Ron Brewer had 18 for the Spurs. 
recent reports in The Kansas City Times and other newspapers have indicated the school may be guilty of numerous NCAA violations. And the Shockers have admitted they are un­dcr investigation. 
But Wichita State is assuring Sher-rod and Dreiling it is not about to go on probation. And since the NCAA has an unbendable policy of not discussing pending investigations, the teen-agers are left with only wild rumors and promises from people with a vested interest. 
Who will they believe? their friends at Wichita State who insist that all is well? or the army of rival recruiters urging them not to waste their careers on an outlaw program that's about to go to jail? 



g TRYOUTS~ 
Organizational Meeting: 
6:30 Wed. April 8 
Lewis Basement Tryouts April 12 -14 
The Southwestern Company 

will be on campus today & Tomorrow only 

to interview NO Students for full time summer work. 
Wed. &Thurs. I -4 pmRm. 425 Admin. Bldg. Wed. &Thurs. 7 pm Rm. 226, Morris Inn 
Please be prompt! 

ATTENTION STUDENTS· 
The deadline for final 
application for summer employment, coordinated through local alumni clubs, is 
friday, April 101 
Applications can be obtained and 
returned to the Alumni Office, 
20 1 Administration Bldg. 
The Observer With first round 
Bookstore tourney continues 

By SKIP DESJARDIN 
and FRANK LAGROTIA 
Sports Writers 
The 1Oth Annual Bookstore Bas· ketball Tournament completed its second day ofaction yesterday. A to· tal of 32 teams were eliminated during the course of the action, bringing the tournament field down to 325. 
While few of the front-runners in 
the field have competed thus far, 
there has been no lack of excite· 
ment. In fact, four of yesterday's 
games went into overtime before a 
winner could be decided. 
In what will no doubt be one of 
the longest cliff-hangers of the year, 
Takee-Outee... outlasted Bricker and 
the Raindrops, 26-24. Kent Brockel· 
man stole the ball under the basket, 
and shoveled it off to Mike McCall, 
whose lay-up ended it. Tom McNeil 
was 7-of-27 for the winners. 
The Bookstore Tournament may 
not typify basketball as it was meant 
to be played, and certainly not as an 
art form, but it most assuredly ex· 
emplifies the spirit of the game. 
There will be few games where a 
team shows the determination of 
The 801 St. Louis St. Burnouts.'When 
the game began, the Burnouts could 
field only three players. Eventually, a 
fourth, and then a fifth man arrived 
at the Stepan courts. Despite the 
two-man disadvantage, the Burnouts 
hung on to take a 24-22 victory over the Newton Police. Swimmer Pat LaPlatney hit 12 of his 29 shots, and pulled down 13 rebounds for the men from St. Louis St. 
The two other overtime contests featured a 25-23 win by Vaseline... over Machiavelli's Marvels, and a victory for Totally Irresponsible over L. Man and the Vintage 714's by a 24-22 score. In that game, St. Mary's basketball coach Jerry D'Ailesio hit 10-of-23 for the win­
ners. 

In other action yesterday, a large contingent of staff members from The Observer were on hand to cheer on their team, Moose Control and the Restless Herd, led by Bruce Oak­ley, whose 9-of-23 shooting paced the club. Sports Editor Mike Ortman symbolized the frustration the Herd suffered, however, as he finished 0­of-7 from the field. A late rally fell short, as Moose and h tis co-horts fell to M.D. Chapman... by a 21-15 score. So, in the battle of campus sports media, Ortman bested WSND Sports Director Bill Dempsey, but only by taking two fewer shots. 
Spectators at the Bookstore courts caught one of this year's finest individual performances yes­terday afternoon. John Macor, a last minute addition to Spot's Yardapes, shot a phenomenal 14-of-19 ( 72.1 percent). "My team was on the waiting list and didn't make it into the tournament," explained Macor after the game. "These guys just asked me to play last night." Players who saw Macor play yesterday will be relieved to hear that his team didn't make the 384-team cut. "I was going to play swingman. Two of the other guys were about as tall as I am," said the 6-4 Macor. 
Along with the stiff competition, the tournament's biggest rout was also recorded yesterday. Leading 18­0 at one point, St. Ed's Arson Squad hung on to beat SURE, 21-2. Identi­cal twins Dennis and Pat Smith combined for an 11-of-21 game from the field for St. Ed's. 
Assistant Basketball Coach Pete Gillen played in his first Bookstore game yesterday, going 2-of-8 as his team, Fameless Outcasts, defeated Backboard Trash, 21-12. "I was prt:t· ty pleased with my performance," said Gillen. "I've been playing bas· ketball all my life, and hitting two shots today improved my scoring average. I had been oh-for-life." 
In a match-up of varsity soccer players, Oral... beat Loveboat and the Aircraft Carriers, 21-18. Far from dominating the game, Oral's Rob Snyder finished 3-of-11, while Loveboat's Kevin Lovejoy con­nected on just two ofhis 11 shots. 
Bookstore Briefs -Commis­

sioner Rob Simari and his staff 
maintain their pleasure at the way 
the tournament is progressing so far. 
They report that no major problems 
have been encountered. 
See TOURNEY, page 8 

!. 
East African Awareness Week Panel Discussion 
~~world Hunger, Re_fugees, & US Foreign Polic,.y" Wed. April 7 7pm Rm. 120 Ha_yes-Hea~y 
Charles !Vilber T etteh Ko_fi " Gilburt Loescher Donations for East Africa bein!( taken in dorms & dinin!( halls 

COMMERCE BLDG 103 WEST WAYNE STREET, ROOM 307, SOUTH BEND, IN. 46601 
Green says Phils better in '81 
CINCINNATI (AP) -Philadel­phia· Manager Dallas Green says his 1981 Phillies are a better team than they were a year ago when they won division, league and World Series championships. 
Starting Wednesday, they'll have to prove it. 
The Phillies open the 1981 major league baseball season in a 2 p.m. EDT game against the Cincinnati Reds. 
The two starting pitchers will be former Cy Young Award winners Steve Carlton for the Phillies and Tom Seaver for the Reds. 
... 

"We're the team to beat," Green said, as the Phillies held their final workout Tuesday in Riverfront Stadium. "I don't think we're going to be complacent. We're a much bet­ter team than we were in 1980 but, of course, we've got to stay sound with our key people." 
Green said the addition offormer Atlanta Braves Gary Matthews in left field gave the Phils added power plus speed in their lineup. 
"I used to have to make a choice between power orspeed, and I don't have that problem now," Green said. "Matthews has settled us con­siderably. He's given us a consis­tency we didn't have last year. I think he is one ofthe best all around players in the National League." 
Green said the Phillies learned late last season that they can be world champions only ifthey play as a team, holding their many diver­gent personalities in check. 
"I think they finally learned that I am not the ogre that I'm made out to be," Green said. "They learned to have fun. For that, and for several reasons, 1981 can't be nearly as dif­ficult as 1980." 
Reds Manager John McNamara thinks he has an improved team too, although the only additions have been former Chicago Cubs pinch­hitters Larry Biittner and Mike Vail and a backup catcher, Mike O'Berry. 
"We're better than we were last year," said McNamara "Our young pitchers got a lot of experience during the stretch drive last year, and we've improved our bench. We got everything accomplished in spring training that we wanted. 

• • . Sportsboard 
continuedfrom page 11 
Stepan 7 No Games Scheduled Stap.n8 No Games Scheduled 
Book8tore9 4:00-Return of the Nutmeggers v. S.T. Judy & the High-Powered Hoopsters 4:45-Peter & the Penetrators v. Ru, Kirby & All­Star Maggots 5:30-S. Judy & the Homefries v. Roger Daltry & the Footprints 6:15-Oral Four v. Muff Diver & the Beavers 
Bookatore10 4:00-logan Leapers v. Nancy's little Gun 4:45-Esophagus Constrictors v. The Afterbirths 5:30-The '69 Mets. etc. v. Rosie & the Knights 6:15-The Open Facers v. George 'Rock & Roll' Berry & the 5 Variations 
Lyons11 

4:00 -Humor at the Expense of Others v. Dick Addis & the Weather Words 
4:45 -Spoofhounds v. Tim McHenry & 4 Guys 5:30-S. Judy & the 4 Missing Stroh's v. LUDUS 
6:15 -Captain Muff & the Seamen v. Emperor Flatus Maximus & the Fall of the Roemer Empire 
Lyons12 4:00-The High Numbers v. Net Prophet 
4:45. Son of Tip & His Pips v. Worst Team in the Tournament 5:30-Dink & the D...s v. Colonel lingus & the Privates 
6:15 -The Squidleys v. Yes Nukes 11-Here We 
Glow Again An Toatallnnertube 2nd Round Pairings 
Tonight's Games 6:00-Chaz's Spazzes vs. Corb's Army 6:30-Wet Ones vs....linguistics 7:00-...Whales vs. Sounds Scary but Not Much 7:30-BP Bombers vs. Monster Fishies 
NBA PLAYOFFS Conference Semifinals Beat-of-Seven Eaatem Conference 
Sunday's Results Philadelphia 125. Milwaukee 122 Boston 121, Chicago 109 
Laat Night's Games Milwaukee 109, Philadelphia 99 (Series tied, 1·1) Boston 106, Chicago 97 (Boston leads, 2·0) 
Weatern Conference Houston 107, San Antonio 98 (Houston leads 1·0) Kansas City at Phoenix (first game of series) 
NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE Stanley Cup Playoffs Preliminary Round Tonight's Games 
Best-of-Five Toronto at New York Islanders Pittsburgh at St. Louis Edmonton at Montreal New York Rangers at Los Angeles Vancouver at Buffalo Quebec at Philadelphia Chicago at Calgary Minnesota at Boston (all games first In series) 
Tomorrow's Games Toronto at New York Islanders Pittsburgh at St. Louis Edmonton at Montreal New York Rangers at Los Angeles Vancouver at Buffalo Quebec at Philadelphia Chicago at Calgary Minnesota at Boston 


~~()t"ts~/~)~~~i~e~S~~~~~============~======w==ed=n=es=d=~=,A=p=ri=ts=,~I9~B~I~p=a=ge~II
by Th~ Ohral't'Y .111d Tht' A.rrorialed Prt•rr 
The annual Blue Gold game ki h ffi
-' mar ng t e 0 . cial end ofspring football practice, is scheduled for Saturday, May 2 at I p.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be admitted at no charge upon presentation of their student ID cards at Gate I 5 only. General admission tickets for the public are 
available in advance at the ACC's Gate I 0 box office from 9 a.m. to 5 P.m., Monday through Friday. Prices for these tickets are S2.50 for adults and Sl for people I 7 -and-under. Tickets will also be available at th•· stadium on game day priced at S3.50 and Sl.SO respectively.
~ 
There will be no reserved seating. The game is sponsored annually by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of St. Joseph Valley and supports the b h h fu d h h I . 16 t
d t

clu 's sc olars lp n w lc current y sustams area stu en s a the University. -The Observer 
The ND/SMC Sailing Club Will be holding its 
w~ .. kly mectt'ng at 6·.30 p.m. tont'ght. However, because of the
~' h 
favorable weather, tonight's and all future meetings will bt~ held at t e boathous.•• <>n the cast end of St. Joe's Lake. New members are 
~ 

welcome as usual. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Women's Track Club wlll act as host for this Saturday's Notre Dame Invitational Track Meet. Any Notre Dame woman who would like to compete in the meet at the Monogram Track on Cartier Field, is invited to do so. Field events begin at II a.m. and running events arc slated for II :30. For further information, call John Amato at 1753. -The Obseroer 
·-·-·-·------­
Classifieds 
Tod~ty'aa ...... 

mm~DBOOKSTOREI &G y ? .
La w lfWh A .... 
rry ary o ere are ou over verage 4:00-Upper Mutakan Off-Campus v. Ernie Cobb White Boys by 13 Stepan & the Point Shavers 
5

Y liard • R It 4:45 -Blood on the Highway v. The Good. the
• ey • Hu • No Games Scheduled Bad & the Ugly&. ~~~~ ~ s 
Roemer's Narc Squad over Fat Notre Dame Girls No Games Scheduled apan 5:30-Dean Roemer & the Keg less Domers v. Tu· 
by 9 ~epan 7 ~~~c~ :~=t~~9Hyer!en & the Skins v. Roemer's We'd Rather Be Swimming over Skid Row Hoover No Games Scheduled Regina Raceway .. 
4 Salesman by 7 ~epen 8 Athletes Out of Action over Steve Stipanovich & No Games Scheduled ~apan2 C S S · hi b 4 4:00 -Dr. Dunkenateln & the 4 Skins v. The
the Gang that outdn't hoot tralg Y Bookltorell Cocoons Surf Squad 
M.D. Chapman & the J. Lennon Fan Club over s t y d M ea M hem b 3 11 
pos ar apesover or u ay Y 4:45-Stroktnglrlshv.FtortdeCrowtrotters
Moose Control & the Restless Herd by 6 Mr. Belland Has No Hair over Point Blank & the 5 Stepan 2 Guard Offense by 7 ~:~5 : ~~~~cok~':'"p:a5n~~~.~:rycesPlato & the Fantastic Forums over DD & Imperial St Ed' A s d SURE b 19
· s rson qua over Y ~~en 
3

BrownEyesby7 TheDoobtesoverThePiasmaltcsby13 :00-CharlesSnavelyv.TeamA
4

S. Judy & the Electric Personalities over Casilaz· Bookltore10 : _The Ox & the Hot-Shooting z-Men v. Mike 4 45
jersquarski Lid. by forfeit Sir Cumcision & the 4 Skins over Urban Guenllas Hunt & the Mellow Fellows 
Slaughterhouse 5 over Snubbed by the NCAA & by 12 h NIT b e 5:30 -Pontius Pilate & the Nail Drivers v. T.R. 
t e y Oral Six over Love boat& the Air Craft Carriers by3 Douche & the Rubber Receptacles
Nell's R.C.M.P.S. overS. Judy & the Masked Mec-Fameless Outcasts over Backboard Trash by 9 G G ­
hantcs by 12 6:15-Gator P... v. olden rt11ms 
Lex Talolnls over Bitchy Bav & the Reamers by 15 ~~en 
4

~apen 3 Lyon• 11 4:00-The vtrtuatsv. Fast Eddie& the Short Com· Takee Outee & the Weasel Bleeders over Bricker & T · Sh k s d ome & the 4 Relyables over
oxic oc yn r ers the Rain Drops, 26-24 (OT) Jean Harris & the Sure Fire Diet by 13 : _Little Hens & the Wittlers v. Mull Divers
4 45

J.C. & the Apostles over The Basket Cases by For-Rico Carty, a Party ... over Deep Throats by 16 5:30 -Baby Killers v. 5 More Who Were Held 
~~i!rs overS. Judy & the Toxic Shockers by 17 TRhtemlleiMachine obvler CCC~ bdy 1MO n & th Vintage Hostage.. 
o a y rresponsl e over u e a e 6:15 -Lovely Bottoms v. 2 Guys Who Need 3
Jack Schmidt& the One-Eyed Hoagies over Sheep Rorers-714's, 24·22 (OT) More Before the lst Game Shot Saloon S ... horns II by 12 Lyone 12 ~epen 5
Stepan 4 GlmmeHett over The Fruit ollhe Loom Guys by tO No Games Scheduled Vaseline Alley over Machiavelli's Marvels, 26-23 The Bald Heads over Ahab's Stoosters by 3 Ste.Sen 
8

(OT) Proud Father & the 4 Uncles over The Borachos by No Games Scheduled 
Willie Classen & the Unconscious Shooters over t2 Kelly Trlpucka Look-alikes by 17 Defending Meyers over Capt Tephra & the Vol· 801 St. Louts St. Burnouts over The Newton canlc Bombs by 9 See SPORTSBOARD, page 10 Police, 24·22 (OT) 
All I 1\tS'olfllH1 ·HIS n "~t hl' ltfCer\lt:~ bv.: 45 p nl IWO ct.hs rr·o· 'U thp 
·~~lit' n whtt'tl lr•(! ;t,l ·~ 'L•n The Ob&erver off•ce •"dt IICLt~PI C'.!'i~ilreds 
Mcu,n;t~ !hrouun F•:.litV, l 0 00 a rr ·o 4 45 p n' ~~~ cla~s,f,cr1s ""''S1 be 
pll··p,lr(1 ""llhP.r 111 t.l?f'iQfl or lhrougn !~1e mdtl 
MIKE BURKE, BEITER KNOWN AS CJF·HSD CJF-HSD CJF·HSD CJF-HSD NEED RIDE TO and-or FROM We are back I Tip and his Pips return 
PRO FOR UMOC, IS REALLY UGLYIII CJF-HSD CJF-HSD CJF-HSD CJF-HSD 
[ .. NOTICES 
Decatur,lllinols OR NEARBY to Bookstore at 4:45 p.m. on the Lyons HE MAKES THE CHILDREN CRY AN· COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL 
(Springfield, Bloomington) OVER EAS­court -todayllllll •. We are the only 
OTHER THING HE HAS GOING HIGH SCHOOL DIVISION 
TER BREAK. WILL SHARE team to tackle opponents. deflate the 
AGAINST HIM IS THAT HE IS RELATED Saturday. Apr ill f: 8·30·11 :30 AM 
DRIVING,EXPENSES.ETC. CALL PAT-­ball and use illegal aliens. See Ryan 
TO JANE BYRNE till NOW THAT REAL· 2:oo-3:30 PM A HOW TO BUY OR SELL THE BUSt· FOR. RENT. UGLY DUCKLING RENT· ·4430 (POSSIBLE DROP-OFF ON WAY ··Tip" Ver Berkmoes, Bruce "horno" LV MAKES HIM A UGLY PERSONtit Jazz clinic at t :00 PM by How1e Smith
NESS OPPORTUNITY" WORKSHOP A-CAR FROM $7.95 A DAY AND 7 TOSI. Louis) Kowalski. Dave .. undies" Sheptoc and 
May 2nd. Notre Dame Center lor CENTS A MILE. PHONE 259-UGLY Maggie "redsky" Brett. plus more. 
VOTE PRO FOR UMOC Clay High School (north on Jumper Rd.)
Cont1nu1ng Educ. For reoervat10n call FOR RESERVATIONS. Needed: Ride to St. Louis for Easter. 
ABIOGENESIS DANCE COLLECTIVE FREE ADMISSION II 
233-7200 ............................................................ 
Can Leave Tues. P.M. or Wed. A.M. Will PRESENTS something worth waiting
AVAILABLE NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2 PRO BURKE 
Provide the unusual plus gas. call for... TONIGHT FOR FREE Iafortune Semor Bar will never be the same now
NI'-SMC photographers Do you need a FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES. NEAR NO. PRO BURKE 
Rainelle 41·5732 or Mary 41·5729. model? I need camera t1me x7344 LEASE. DEPOSIT 234·2826 333 
HE MAKES THE CHILDREN CRYIIII ballroom 8 p.m. that Susan Brennwald is 21 years old. SAVE THOSE PENNIES FOR UMOC 
Maybe now she'll learn to watch herNEW JERSEY RIDERS lor EASTER Make your plans NOW to celebrate step.
TYPING--Only S 65 a page Call Dan. Av~iL"AaL:E suMMER AND NexT break leave TUESDAY or WEDNESDAY PRO, YOU'RE AN UGLY MAN III Leslie .. , plan on drinking heavily· how .... the World I
272-55411 SCHOOL YEAR t AND 3 BEDROOM call BRENDAN at 232·8931. 
embarrassing for MEl" Mulligan's 21st Guess WhoAPARTMENTS 234-2826 birthday on Thursday. April 9th. at Club
OVERSEAS JOBS · Summer-year SOUTHERN CAL STUDENTS· A Go to the Collegiate Jazz Festivai--Apnl C. Hard-CORPS members only. Be ·STEVE RUDNICKI. ..
round. Europe, S.Amer. Australia. Houoes for rent summer and next 10& 11
baggage truck will be leaving ND to there. aloha. (Book her. Dan-01) HAPPY 22nd BIRTHDAYIII Al11a All fields SSOO·S 1200 monthly school year. Gd. cond.. close to Southern Cal. Call Pat 234·0515 LOVE. ANNE 
S1ghtoee1ng Free 1nfo Wnte tJC, Box campus. turn. Call 287·5361 after 6 The only one lor UMOC 
52-IN4. Corona Del Mar. Ca. 92825 brucegod.
pm. NEED RIDE TO PHILADELPHIA AREA Is Richard Stanage why you no call? no want to koob? WILL THE SOAKING WET GIRLS WHO 
OVER BREAK. CAN LEAVE MONDAY With a lace like his 
call. we koob muchI WASHED UP AT MY PARTY LASTTYPING OONE IN MY HOME UNIV 
AT NOON CALL BRIAN 1847 How does he manage? 
PARK MALL AREA 277-3085 scoop FRIDAY PLEASE BRING BACK MY
------------~ 
FREAKING CLOTHES. I THOUGHTHELP I need a ride to Ballo.· Waah. forNeed nde to Youngstown or last few
The Jazz Festival IS Back--Don't M1sslt· WANTED sorry, scoop. I get busy and forget. I NICE GUYS WERE SUPPOSED TO BE
..____

[____, ______ Eellar. Call Tim at 233-5422. Will share 
exits of OH. turnpike this weekend call really ready. but must wa1t. lh1s REWARDED. NOT SCREWED·April 10& 11 
unusual.

Brad 1658 or Mike 1609. weekend go way. we koob. I not forget OVER OTHERWISE I'LL TRACK YOU 
you. koob. koob. koob! DOWN TO THE ENDS OF THE EARTH I need a nde to Chlcago4-t0 ·Elmhurst brucegod 
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS Needed: R1de to Washmgton D.C. lor Rob Trousdale shall die on April
RINGS $20-$85 OR MORE WE MAKE Easter Can leave Thurs A M or Wed 25th.What will cause poor Robert to AND RIP YOUR RESPECTIVE LUNGS 
vicimty or anywhere near. Call Joan 41· OUT.I ALREADY KNOW YOU LIVE INHOUSE CALLS. 255-2402 P.M Call Mary Julie. 41·4376 
lose 11 this way? Could it be Mr. Daniels, Desperate for ride I 
5425 carol, REGINA .. ARE YOU SCARED YET? 
a smooth wh1skey preferred by alkles All thooe Interested 1n buying BOSTON 
thanks for your charming company Need ride to Philadelphia for Easter. 
like Mr. Bill, or could II be Mr. Gilbey's, CLUB shills can call J1m G1blm at t 528 NEED 3 RIDES TO PITTSBURGH FOR last weekend. i am eagerly looking lor· Wear a wh1te arm band on Com~ence­T. Berg·s old nemes1s. Rob's killers are 
and SIZBS Can leave on Wednesday Please call ward to thelormallnday n1ght. ifyou're ment day '" memory ol the El Sal·
The COli IS $8 Bll are EASTER. CALL GREG-3451 OR SUE 
tree to sggestion as to which means available 284·5329 
Maureen at 41·5791 I lucky. 1might even show you my teat· vadorans murdered With the a1d of our
should be used to demonstrate the lme 
her thong .. money and President Reagan·s bless·
arts ol ZOOM.

A1de wanted !rom MILWAUKEE to NO scoop mg.
There w1ll be a general meetmg lor NEEDED 2 RIDES TO&FROM on Sunday April 12 Call Joanne at 8915 anyone Interested 10 working on the CLEVELAND FOR EASTER BREAK 
ATTENTION CONNECTICUT VALLEY Fall 1981 Transle1 Student Onentat1on WILL SHARE$$ CALL JIM 8700 
after 11 pm WHO WAS A GOALIE FOR HIS HIGH SOPHOMORES--Anyone Interested m
RESIDENTS: Do you need a summer SCHOOL'S CHAMPIONSHIP DART bemg a member ol the Jun1or Adv1sory Committee on Thursday. Apnl9, at 6:30 tob? Looking for transportation home TEAM? WHO ELSE !II MIKE GORGAR' Counc1l for the1r dorm can p1ck up an
p m 1n the Pasquenlla West llrst lloor NEED 2 GRADUATION TIX. $$WILL or lor you and your ppossessions? Get In· 
~~~~dA•p;;ff6~~:r~f:75Aprit15 
GURDAK FOR 1981 UMOCIII GURDAK· application at the Student ActiVIties
lounge Any quest1ons call Ann1e at PAY$$ CALL JOHN AT 1846 OR 1787. valved '" forming the Connecticut Val· 
OOOHSOUGLYII Oll1ce. 1st floor ol LaFortune I rom 
2725 ley Club here at Notre Dame. For I need a ride to Balto.· w..h. lor e... 
Wednesday. Apnl 8 to Wednesday.
Information Call1620 and ask lor Bill. tar Call T1m al 233-5422. Willshare un· 
attention to the blonde. St. Mary·s Apnl15.
--.....---0 
freshman who was asked to a formal atusual. 

INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
OR SALE a Dillon party 2 wkends ago. Can't lind tomght 8 p m. LAFORTUNE BALL·
MARKETPLACE R1ders needed to Dayton. OH leav1ng ---------Today In LaFortune you please call Tom 1636 ROOM AN EVENING OF DANCE FOR April10 Call Don 8270. 
FREE 
FOR SALE. 1978 WHITE CAMARO How did Mike Gurdak get to be so so
BILL GRIZZ' NELLIST FOR UMOC. LOST· SMC CLASS RING. BLUE Need nde to or around m1d·Hudson 
WITH RED RACING STRIPE GREAT ugly? There was a fire on his face and Anita.
He's a real DON JUAN with the women: STONE. ENGRAVED S S 83 CALL Valley lor Easter Can leave earl)'. Will they ·ooN JUAN" have anything to do 
CONDITION LOADED LOW MILEAGE someone put 11 out w1th an Ice pick. For Have a sm1le on me 
WILL SELL CHEAP CALL 232·1696 the ugly that goes all the way to the Guess who?
284·5329 share usual. Call Maura at 7852 
w1thhim. 

bone. vote Mike two bagger" Gurdak. MUST SELL Tl-59 PROGRAMABLE Momca,
LOST SILVER CHAIN WITH MINI­wanted Kaplan MCAT Manuals lor Sept Summer Resident Camp Stall needed. ..................... . .... 
CALCULATOR WITH PRINTER AND You are Woman's
ATURE SPARK PLUG ON WALK FROM MCAT Dan (after 6 pm) 277-8092 Mid-June to early August. All positions The Mexlcan·Amenca'n Club ol Notre the envy of all m 
FULL ACCESSORIES $400 OR BEST Ch01r Not only did you get lour whole
PARKING LOT TO MOREAU HALL AT open: Counselors, Water-front, Nurse, Dame 
OFFER CALL PAT 8937. words out ol Lyle. you also got a date
SMC REWARD PLEASE CALL IRENE NEED RIDE to Miami-Ft. Lauderdale or Cook. Contact: G11l Scouts of Singmg MECHA-Presents 
AT 4074 AT ST MARY'S almost enywhare else In Florida AFTER The CHICANO FILM FESTIVAL w1th Mr Stockmg Capl What's your
Sands. Inc .. 15985 State Road 23. Gran­GRADUATION. Call John Higgins al April9,10, I 1 Haggar Hall rm 117
FRENCH-BUILT BICYCLE 25 INCH secret? Kevm and 1 both thank you tor
ger. In 46530 or call (219) 277-0900 

FRAME. 30 LBS: GOODCONDITION­the perfume It made the weekend. 
I lost my room keys m an mtox1cated 8553 or t775and leave a message. 7:OOpm all showmgs
$105 CALL 3189 Love
moment. I don I know exactly where I SPECIAL OLYMPICS Is having a thrill Thurs. Our Children's Children & The Mrs Polyester Pants lost them. but I believe 11 to be on Green Need nde to Purdue tor Easter. Can sale May 9 at Newman Center. Dona­Unwanted 
FOR SALE BAR BROWN, BUILT FOR
F1eld II you tmd a set ol keys w1th 1008 leave 9 am Thurs. Share usual. Jell lions of clothmg. books. records, nic Fri. I am Joaqum & Yo Soy Ch1cano 
CORNER. MUST SEE BEST OFFER · DEAN DEBUT 
Sat. Only Once In A L11e11mel CALL 233·2865 Come see the mlamous DEAN 
on them please call M1ke t 474 3053 nacs and miscellaneous. Drop oil 
FREE ADMISSION RECEPTION AFTER ROEMER (yes folks. you heard 11 nght)1tems at Logan Center or call Ralph Es­
LOST A blue tacket w1th a white ltnmg Need nde to Philadelphia lor Easter sex 289·4831 days, or Ann Lagormar­SAT SHOWING and hiS amaz1ng KEGLESS DOMERSStepan on Sunday between 6.30 and Can leave Wed mght and return on clno 232-7068 evenings ol Grace Hall play bookstore basketball
Jell Jeffers is so ugly 11 bums him way out today at Stepan at 5.3011 There w1ll be a 8.00 Return to Mark at 305 Sorm or call Tues. Call Kathy· 1366 
8542 WHO'S UGLIER THAN DICK
TICKETS kegger alter the game'STUDENT MUSICAL TALENT WANTED 
ALLISON?... BOB BURGER LOST A green notebook contammg Im­TO PERFORM AT IRISH COUNTRY 
WHO'S UGLIER THAN BOB BUR· Play one more lor my Radio Sweet­Observer Sports Siallers-Meetmg

portant biology notes Relurn to Mark APPLY IN PERSON OR CALL 232·0111 GER? .... DAVE COLE 
I need 3 (that's three) graduatiOn tick· heart That's the way the whole thing tomorrow & every Thursday mght. 6 30 at 305 Sonn or call 8542 REWARD WHO'S UGLIER THAN DAVE
ets. (Yes, folks, 1t's start1ng already ) II started All are welcome
G1mme a break H~'P' ' nood to borrow a copy of the COLE?.. MIKE DEASEY 
you can help me, call Scoop at 1772. 
SOUNDTRACK to the WIZARD OF OZ WHO'S UGLIER THAN MIKE JP.ALF. & SWEENS.
LOST BLACK BINDER WITH N D Call Mrnk 233·5717 
DEASEYL DON HALLIGAN

Need EXTRA GRADUATION TIX badly· The Surgeon General has determmed Note to the Moo..•SEAL ON COVER CONTAINING MUSIC WHO'S UGLIER THAN DON HAL·
PLEASE call Mary Pat at 8091 that elephant walking, punching In
FOR GLEE CLUB--VERY IMPOR· need nde lrom Albany. N Y. on Mon . Thanks to all who came to cheer on
LIGAN?.... MARK LANGHANS 

doors. and flauntmg bare ankles leads need multiple smc graduation tix. large to SOCIBI1atrogenes1s: 
TANTIII IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 4·20. Must know by Apnl 9. p.m. Call WHO'S UGLIER THAN MARK LAN­The Restless Herd 1n Ihell vam attempt 
to stop senseless VIOlence and the use
KEVIN AT xt022 or x2253 Jean· 41·4842 GHANS?... PAUL THOMPSON 
family coming. please call terri (4632) Yours & Truly Concerned. 
ot handguns m thrs part ol the galaxyWHO'S UGLIER THAN PAUL Rachael Unfortunately. Mark Dav1d Chapman
LOST 5 APR 81 2 FATIGUE SHIRTS. I RIDE NEEDED TO MILWAUKEE THIS THOMPSON? .. DICK ALLISON 
NEED 2 GRADUATION TICKETS had too many sharpshooting poa'chers
PAIR FATIGUE PANTS FROM BADIN WEEKEND CALL I 14I 1 I 16 ST PETER
CALL. Tom 234-1367 Ed While lor UMOC 
for Simple beasts such as ourselves
LAUNDRY CALL 8198 no questiOns UGLY HOUSE OFF CAMPUSIIIIIIIIIII p.s. I love you I 
We were a team w1th an 1dent1ty (Mornstown)-lor Easter. Leave Weds 
asked. Need R1de to North Jersey­
cr.1s1s. for we are not truly restless ­PRO BURKE Pete. 
WE"RE HORNY Ill PRO BURKE How could your roommate ~now a noon Brian 3578 We are sorry to have d1sappomted,FOUND A room key. near baskelball PERSONALS THE UGLIEST MAN ON CAMPUS person like me? Fnday n1ghl was a 
Good luck to Mark and the Fan Club 1n • SAVE THOSE PENNIES Ill! great t1me and delmitely needs to becourts, to room 242, on a short rope Need nders to Philly. Leavmg Tues. 
commg daysrepeated Call me sometime, and I'll tell cord Call Rachel at 7892 Apnl 14 6.00pm Call 4-1-4970 or 4-1· Love you all, 
5151 Jell Jailers IS so ugly, he knows Ill you a Joke so you'll know more than 
Moose Con t trot FOUND A BLUE SWEATJACKET Ar NEED RIDE TO WASHINGTON, DC before Easter lor break. Can share ex­one. C.STEPAN ON FRIDAY NIGHT CALL AREA FOR lA~ EA. WILL SHARE GOODE IS BAD penses. Call De11dre at 6013. Call late 11 6769 USUAL CAN L~AVE TUESDAY NOON GOODE IS BAD you can't reach me any other t1me. 
Need ride to MILWAUKEE thursday 

0 Who are the three lunn,est men In Survey extended· Help Walt Smith with 
the Yukon? memory lapse-What IS definition
CALL KARII\I AT 2955 GOODE IS BAD. 
LOST A brown clutch purse at Alumni· Jim Goode lor UMOC. ot A: Curly. Larry and Moose! 
·roo mce"?

McCandless Formal on Saturday. Apnt N~ed. ;,ci~·~~--M~~k~g~~ Mi~h~g~~-$3.00 ALL YOU CAN DRINK EVERY (The Yukon IS a bleak place.) 4 II found. please call Marc1a at x3850 Grand R•plds, or anywhere close lor Bless him Father, lor he has smned. He 
WEDNESDAY 9·12pm AT IRISH Moose Control COUNTRY 
How to tell oil a Domer-Call Ellen 41­

this weekend. Also need return nde on must have... ugly doesn't come cheap. 
8769April t2 Pl~•se call Greg at 3454. JIM GOODE for UMOC. 



S~orts 
Must replace vets 
Defensive line seeks stability 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

Defensive line coach Bill Meyers can sympathize with all the players learning new positions this spring ­he's got one himself. 
Working with the offensive line last year, both he and assistant coach Brian Boulac are coach. 1g from the other side ofthe football this season. 
"Even though it's my third year with the team, it's really a learning orocess for all of us right now," says. 
Meyers. "I'm just beginning to know the strengths and weaknesses ofour players on defense. 
Meyers inherits two tremendous tasks this spring -finding replace­ments for former standouts Scott Zettek,)ohn Hankerd and Don Kidd, and carrying on a legacy ofgreatness left by former line coach joe Yonto. 
"We'll be playing very much the same way coach Yonto's defenses have in the past," Meyers explains. ''I'm not really stressing anything dif­ferent. I just want to carry on the tradition joe has started." 

Fundamentals and defensive con­cepts have been emphasized by the coaches this spring in an effort to get every player to realize his role. 
"Understanding breeds con­fidence, and conlidence breeds ag­gressive play," says Meyers. "If they can understand their role in the defense, they'll play with more aut­hority than they did last year, if that's possible." 
Head coach Gerry Faust is pleased with the transition Meyers has made 
Spring Football'81 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii­
from offense to defense, as well as the move Yonto has made to ad­ministrative assistant. 
"It was a great move for Notre Dame football," offers Faust. "Both have fit into their positions in exact­ly the way I wanted them to. 
"Joe has so much to offer us as an 
administrator, and he's just done a 
super job in hellping us with or­
ganization. And although I brought 
in a lot of new people on offense, I 
felt with Coach Meyers' intensity 
and personality, he'd be an excellent 
See STABUI1Y, page 8 

Joyce tenure marks an era 
Editor's note: This is the first ofa three-part feature on Rev. Edmund P.joyce, Executive Vice-President of the University of Notre Dame and Chairman of the Faculty Board in Control ofAthletics. 
By FRANK LaGROTTA 
and CRAIG CHVAL 
Sports Writers 

Like many Catholics living in the depths of the Great Depression, young Nedjoyce dreamed ofattend­ing the University of Notre Dame. Because of the Depression, however, joyce was resigned to the fact that his desire to study at Notre Dame was probably no more than that -a dream. 
But Father Thomas). Mackin, the pastor of Joyce's parish in Spartan­burg, S.C., and himself a graduate of the University, helped that dream become a reality. Father Mackin of­fered Joyce encouragement, as well as something else that was just as im­portant -a job in the campus dining hall. 
So :'~Jed Joyce arrived at Notre Dame in the fall of 19.33 at the ten­der age of 16. When he graduated magna cum laude four years later, he hn:ame a permanent bit of trivia as the first resident ofSouth Carolina to receive a degree from Notre Dame. 
:\low. some-!-! years later, Rev. Ed­mund P. Joyce is in a position to leave a much more visible mark upon the University to which he has dedicated his life. When he steps down as Notre Dame's Executive Vice-President, Notre Dame's fabled Athletic and Convocation Center will be renamed in his honor. 
"I really like to discourage those things," insists Joyce, who recently added the National Football Founda­tion Hall of Fame's Dis.tinguished American Award to the long list of. honors bestowed upon him. "I'd just as soon see somebody endow the entire athletic program and have them put his name on it." 
Yet, despite Joyce's aversion to publicity, his 30-year reign has been fraught with media attention and oc­casional controversy. And even though he only devotes 10 to 1 S per­cent ofhis time to athletics, the vast majority of attention focused upon him centers around that aspect ofhis job. He has been called, on more than one occasion, the most power­ful man in college athletics, and the "czar" of Notre Dame football and basketball. 
When joyce left Spartanburg for South Bend, though, such notoriety was the farthest thing from his mind. School work and his job in the dining hall left little time for ath­letics. 
"I played varsity basketball in Spartanburg, and had hoped to get some athletic help at Notre Dame," recallsjoyce. "But it didn'twork out. I was thin, about S-11, I SO pounds -just not big enough~' 
joyce, however, did find time to display his talents on the interhall level, helping Brownson Hall and St. Ed's Hall to campus titles as a fresh­man and sophomore, while making the all-interhall squad both seasons. But varsity basketball practice and his duty log at the dining hall over­lapped, so he never had the oppor­tunity to see if he was good enough 
SeeJOYCE, page 8 

Wednesday, AprilS, 1981 -page 12 

BOOKSKETBALL BANTER -As soon as NBC's SportsWorld began televising the Bengal Bout finals three years ago, it seemed inevitable. The newest property which the sports television industry is inquiring about is Bookstore Basketball. · 
jules Winn of the Entertainment Sports Programming Network (ESJ>N), the national cable television company devoted to round-the­clock sports coverage, contacted Bookstore Basketball officials last month. Wino wanted to televise the Bookstore finals, live from the back parking lot of the ACC. However, ESPN's midwest television crew already had a commitment during the April 26 final game and wanted the championship moved to the following Tuesday. Bookstore Commissioner Rob Simari and his staff, in consultation with Bookstore Commissioner Emeritus Tim "Bone" Bourret, determined that moving the game from the Sunday of An Tostal would not be in keeping with Bookstore tradition and nixed the idea. 
Nevertheless, ESPN may still do some scores and reports from the Bookstore Tournament during its SportsCenter segments. 
"FAMILY" REUNION -Simari and his fellow Bookstore bosses have planned quite an extravaganza for the Tenth Anniversary of the tourney's inception. Commitments from six members of former Bookstore champions have already been received for the Tenth An­niversary Bookstore All-Star Game. Tom "Suds" Sudkamp, Dan Short, Bill Hanzlik and Dave Marcel will all return to the hallowed ground where their "Chumps" squad earned Bookstore titles in 1979 and 1980 after a runner-up performance in 1978. 
Likewise, Dwight Clay and Gary Brokaw, who enjoyed successful NBA careers after leaving the Irish varsity, will return to represent "The Family," Bookstore's first championship team in 1972. Cliff Brown and varsity hoopsters john Shumate and Pete Crotty also anchored that squad, a Bookstore powerhouse which eventually led to the adoption ofthe one-varsity-basketball-player-per-team limit. 
The format and structure of the all-star game has not yet been finalized, pending the responses of some 25 or 30 past greats whom the Bookstore staff has yet to hear from. 
DUNKING DEUGHTS -The Bookstore courts are listed as one of the top basketball courts in the nation for. a good pick-up game of "playground" style basketball, according to Chuck Wielgus and Alexander Wolff. Those two authored the recently released In-Your­FaceBasketballBook distributed by Everest House PublishersofNew York and available in the Notre Dame Bookstore for S7.95. 
The book lists the I 21 top hardtops in the country and rates them according to location, caliber of competition, number of hoops and full courts, condition ofthe rims and nets, and several miscellaneous categories. The Bookstore courts were listed as campus courts where the best competition is occasional pro or top-flight college talent (one of2S to be awarded this top ranking). The courts have both a level rim and net, while providing a working drinking fountain nearby. Games are played according to "Deuce" and women-play there often too, according to Wielgus and Wolff. 
Ofthe courts themselves, the book warns, "Site of the fabled Notre 
Dame Bookstore Basketball Tournament every April. Beware the 
manhole cover at mid-court." 
FAUST AND FOREMOST-Ray Kennedy's article on Gerry Faust 
does appear in this week'sSports Illustrated. Ironically, this is also SI's 
annual baseball preview issue. 
The magazine's publicity sheet lists the article as a report "on Gerry 
Faust as he prepares to take over the mantle of Rockne, Leahy and 
Parseghian at Notre Dame." Notre Dame Sports Information Director 
Roger Valdiserri remarks in the article, "...When I first met him, I 
knew. He walked into my house the night before the press conference 
to introduce him, and I just wanted to hug him. In all my years in 
sports, I've never seen such a magnetic personality. Never. I just love 
the guy." 

Faust's administrative assistant, Joe Yonto also voiced praise about 
his new boss: "It wouldn't surprise me ifat our first game, the players 
run out of that tunnel, keep running to the other end of the stadium 
and form a new tunnel." 

MOVING UP-Ex-Irish and NBA star Gary Brokaw, who served as a 
part-time assistant on Digger Phelps' staff this season, has been 
promoted to a full-time assistant. Brokaw fills the vacancy created 
when three-year assistant Tom McLaughlin accepted the head coach­
ing position at the University of Massachusetts. 
Brokaw averaged 17.4 points per game for the 1972-73 Irish and 
helped Notre Dame to a second-place linish in the National Invitation­
al Tournament. As a junior the following year he boasted a 17.1 
scoring mark and earned AII-Amedca honors, leading the Irish to a 
third-place ranking in the final UPI poll and a fifth-place rating on the 
Associated Press's compilation. Brokaw, who ranks 28th on Notre 
Dame's all-time career scoring Jist, opted for the NBA after his junior 
season. 

Picked by Milwaukee in the first round of the 1974 NBA draft, 
Brokaw remained with the Bucks for two years. He was then traded to 
Cleveland (alright, no remarks) and spent two more years with the 
Cavaliers. He averaged 8. 5 points during his NBA career. 
Brokaw, a native of New Bunswick, N.j., earned his bachelor's de­
gree in sociology from Notre Dame in 1980. Having returned as an 
Irish coach in August of 1980, the 27-year-old Brokaw also served as 
an advisor and counselor in the Office of Minority Student Affairs.






