.Endorsement -page5 

VOL. XV, NO. 102 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, MARCH 2, 1981 
Borchers discusses presidency 
In tomorrow's elections for Student Body President/Vice President, Stu· dent Senator Pat Borchers and Badin Hall President Rosemary Canino will challenge the ticket of Don Murday/Tara Ke1mey. Ex· ecutir•e News Editor Tom jackman intt>rvtewed Borchers and Canino 

Borchers/Canino 
Q: What do you see as the b.~est problem on campus, and bow will you deal with it? 
A (Borchers): I think the biggest 
problem for student government 
right now Is reopening the lines of 
communkation with the student 
body. I also think student govern· 
ment Is somewhat out of touch; it's 
bc:come almost too elitist. There are 
pc:ople up there who are more serv· 
ing themselves than really in­terested In being involved with the students. The Senate wa..~ a positive step forward; it was a good idea to bring studem government back in toul·h with the people. But it hasn't followed through. As you'll notice, we aren't getting people to the Senate meetings to express their ideas, complaims, etc., and this is what the Senate should be doing. It's not just another wheel In this mys­terious box they call student government...But you've got to lay the groundwork first, and I really don't think the present (Riehle) ad­ministration is capable of handling tht·se problems, simply because they have lost touch. 

The opening night of tbe Sophomore Literary Festival featured Seamus Heaney reading a collection ofhisfavorite poems. See story at bottom ofpage. (photo by Chris Salvino) 
Q: But wouldn't you agree that it's defeatist to have Fr. Van Wolvlear and other administrators on there as voting members? 
A: Oh yes, we had to revise the constitution, but I would have kept It going'in Its old form until the con­stitution was revised. And then, April I, when everything turns over, I would have started the CLC in its new form. Right now, the CLC is guing to have people on there for just a little over a month, and then membership wlll change, and we'll have all new people in there; we'll be starting over. The whole year has been wasted. We're not going to get anything done in the CLC this .year, period, until maybe after April 1. 
Q: In your platform, you call for a student representative on the Board of Trustees. Obviously, the Trustees would not be too receptive to this, one of their main arJ!U· 
Irish poet 
Heaney opens SLF 
By NORMAN PLATE 
News Staff 
The Sophomore Literary Festival opened last night with Irish poet Seamus Heaney, who addressed a Library Auditorium audience that exceeded capacity. 
Seamus Heaney, whom Robert Lowell called "Ireland's greatest poet since Yeats," presented the great diversity of his works using landscapes, religion, the police, and even a skunk as sources ofinspira­tion. 
Heaney began by explaining that he started his career in poetry by scan·hing for his own, personal style. He stressed that "each person hegins with his own blueprint of poetry." 
lie facilitated the transitions between poems by including humorous ant•cdotcs. When introducing "Death of a Naturalist," lleaney told the crowd that one critic called it "a long, disappointing pot·m." Heaney simply commented, "It's not long." 
The poet's "serious" works dealt with such topics as growing up in tht· '"iOs, the beauty of the bog in Ireland, and the common fear of the poliet·. The lighter side of his poetry included a new work, as yet unpublished, which relates the many names given to a hare, including "tht· jumper...the sudden starter" and finally, "an aid for onion broth or bread." 
Blending Irish history and tradition with ordinary and daily ex­periences, llcaney presented, as Richard Murphy stated, "a coherent vision of Ireland, past and present." 
ments being that for most of the meetings, they discuss issues which have no bearing on students. How canyou conceive oftbem accepting such a proposal? 
A: I'm not going to malte any guarantees. I think it's one of those things we've got to push towards. Things on our platform basically fall into two categories, either the things we can do right now, or things we can be working towards. Obviously, there are some Idealistic things on this platform, but you've 
See Qa: A, page 3 

Bishop stands fast on Mardi Gras gambling 
By JEFF CHOPPIN 
News Staff 
Early fi~ues on the results of the past Mardi Gra..~ are not a..~ low as some had expected, but indications regarding the future of tht· annual event are not encouraging. 
Although early attendance was pOOf, the unofficial Mardi Gras results were only S'5,000 short of last year's, according to members of the Mardi Gras Executive Commit­
tee. 
The 11nal profit figure will not be 
known for two weeks, but it was es­
timated to be about 523,000 by head 
accountant Mike Domagola. Last 
year's figure was between S27,000 
and $28,000, Domagola said. Those 
figures include proceeds from the 
rafllc, admissions and gaming. 
News regarding the future of 
Mardi Gras is not bright. In yester­
day's issue of The Harmonizer, the 
South Bend/Fort Wayne Catholic 
Diocese newsletter, Bishop William 
McManus responded with a strong 
"no" to petitioners who urged him 
to back down in his stance against 
gambling. 
It was stated on the petitions, 
signed by over 7,000 people, "that 
the practiced judgement of the 
responsible law enforcement aut­
horities is that prevention of such 
charitable fund-raising activities at 
this point is not the purpose of the 
Indiana law." 

But the bishop reite . .:d that his stand was not against gambling, but "gambling in violation of the law," the letter stated. 
The bishop urged that petitions be directed to the Indiana General Assembly in Indianapolis. However, he was not optimistic of success there, noting the Indiana Catholic Confcn·ncc's ir.ability to obtain a hearing a hearing on a bill to "decriminalize" bingo on church premises. 
"I have said repeatedly, and I say It again in this letter, Indiana's law is archaic, and its widespread viola­tions, aided by tax law enforcement authorities who conveniently 'look the other way,' make a travesty orin­diana's vaunted reputation for being a 'law and order' state." 
In what now appears to be the 
final Mardi Gras, attendance for the 
first weekend was poor, according 
to the committee. "Things started 
off very slowly," explained Mardi 
Gras Business Manager James Ricd­
man. "The first weekend went very 
slow," said Domagola. At that time, 
Mardi Gras wa..~ 5'5,000 behind in 
revenue from the concessions and 
booths from la..~t year's revenue 
figure. 

"As things progressed, especially the last two nights, things went very well,'' said Riedman, "We sold 200 ( raflle) tickets the last two nights." Raflle Chairman William Weber said, "Ticket sales went real well -we were pretty pleased.... The students really came through." In excess of S19,000 in raflle tickets were sold, Weber stated, compared with 
SI7,000 for last year 
The reasons given for the poor turnout were not clear. "I really can't tell you why (more pc:oplc did not show up)," explained Riedman. "It seemed like this year people 
See BISHOP, page 3 

District3 

Candidates discussplatforms 
Editor's note: To preview tomor­row's Student Senate elections, The Observer examines the candidates in each district. In part two, District 3 Is summarized today, and Dis­trict 5 will be considered tomor­row. 
By TIM VERCELLOTII 
SeniorStaffReporter 
Candidates in District 3 in the 
upcoming election are supporting 
ideas which range from an optional 
laundry service, to a tightening of 
security measures on campus, to a 
closer student governmtnt/student 
body relationship. Five I candidates 
from the third district (Badin, Dil­
lon, Fisher, Howard, Lyf)ns, Morris­
sey and Pangborn Halls), are vying 
for the Senate seat. 
The students malting up the field arc Carl Carney, Tom Cushing, David DeJute, Patricia Hiler, and Bob Zimmerman. 
Carney, a Fist her Hall sophomore, is making his second bid for the Stu­dent Senate after losing to Pat Bor­chers la..~t fall. He cited one and one half years a..~ a section leader in Fis­her as a good qualification for the job ofsenator. "This has brought me closer to the issues of Fisher, and to those of the South Quad, and it ha..~ given me ideas for the resolution of those issues," Carney explained. 

One of Carney's main concerns is an open dialogue between himself and his constituents. To this end he proposes to establish a committee in his district to keep him posted on the South Quad's needs. In additon, Carney intends to attend District 3 Hall Council meetings regularly. 
The candidate supports a new stu­dent center, an increase in the num­ber ofstudy days before final exams, a big brother/big sister program for incoming freshmen, and an increase in campus security, paticularly near Dorr Road, behind Lyons Hall. 
Carney is optimistic about his can­didacy, and the issues which he sup­ports. "My platform issues are progressive, and are things that will come before the Senate next year," he said. 
Among Carney's opponents is Dil­lon Hall Sophomore Tom Cushing. Cushing has no previous student government experience, and it is his opinion that cxpereience need not be a prerequisite for serving in the Senate. "As far as I'm concerned, the Student Senate is a representative body. Such :: body should have people who arc concerned about the issues; I don't think expereicnce is necessary,'' he explained. 
Cushing feels that he is aware of 
the needs of his district, SUl'h as more social space and better security. His initial concern, however, is the Studt·nt Senate. "The primary issue is the Senate itself. Right now it is important how we run the Senate, in order to make it a strong, viable body," Cushing said. 

The candidate is optimistic about tomorrow's election. "I think Dillon is the biggest hall in this distrkt, and I think that gives me an edge. I feel confident about the race," he added. 
Joining Carnq and Cushing in the District 3 field is David Dcjute, a freshman from Morrissey Uall. DcJute was involved in student government in high school; he is currently involved in tutoring and volunteering at Logan Center. The candidate describes himself a..~ "a man for others." 
Dcjute's major concern is a stu­dent government with more student involvement. "I'd like to sec the Stu­dent Senate more active," DeJutt_· stated. He defined "active" a..~ more communication with constituents, 
primarily through a complaint bureau, appearances by senators at hall meetings, and public forums. According to DeJute, such mt·a.~urcs would promote student intt·rcst. "Part of getting involvt·d is getting people interested," he pointed out. 
See PREVIEW, page 5 


~ ---~----~-------------------~ ~­
,. 



News Brie/.§ 
Monday, March 2, 1981 -page 2 

~==~=======*==============================~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
19 missing South Korean crewmen were the sub­ject of a renewed Coast Guard air search off the Alaskan coast yester­day, after they fell into the frigid North Pacific as they were trying to flee their fire-ravaged cargo ship. One body has been recovered. Sear­chers made aerial passes over the snow-swept sea some 90 miles west of Attu Island, the westernmost point in the Aleutians, looking for survivors. Of the 26 crewmembers originally on board the Daerim, three were rescued by Soviet ships Saturday. The whereabouts of three others, first thought to be still aboard the 1,500-ton vessel, 'Yas unknown. The South Korean ship, when last spotted, was listing "in excess of 60 degrees in 40 knot winds and 20 foot seas," said Coast Guard spokesman Bob Sheaves. While the outlook was bleak for fin­ding additional survivors, Sheaves said there was a possibility some of the men made their way to a raft dropped into the water by a Coast Guard helicopter Saturday. -AP. 
"Peace through strength," a chief goal of the Reagan administration. will be fleshed out this week with specific proposals for building U.S. defenses that will call for the most lavish peace-time military spending ever by a new administration. Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger is expected to ask Congress for a net boost of about $.33 billion over the military budget authority totals recommended by former President Carter for this year and next. These proposals would raise defense budget authority to S177.7 bil­lion in fiscal 1981, which ends Sept. 30, and to 5222.8 billion in fiscal 1982. Only a small fraction of this would actually be spent in those two years. Most of the new authority, permitting the Pentagon to make contract commitments, would be "spent out" in future years as new ships, planes and other equipment are produced. The new ad­ministration's unprecedented peacetime generosity to the armed services is in line with President Reagan's assertion that one ofhs top priorities is to "rebuild the nation's inadequate defense capabilities." 
-AP. 
National Guard troops were called up for fire duty early yesterday after Milwaukee's I,100 uniformed firefighters ignored a state law prohibiting strikes and walked out in d contract dispute. A lone uniformed fireman stayed on the job to assist a "skeleton crew" of 28 supervisors handling fire protection in the city of680,000, said Fire ChiefWilliam Stamm. Suburban fire departments were alerted and emergency medical services were turned over to private ambulance companies. Stamm urged residents to "get very fire conscious." Meanwhile, city attorney James Brennan obtained a tem­porary restraining order against the strike from Circuit Judge John E. McCormick and was going to court to seek a permanent injunction. State law bars public employees from striking. Brennan said the order was being served on union officials, but there was no immediate return to work. Only three ofthe city's 37 firehouses remained open. 
-AP. 
Militant Basques wounded three police of­ficers in a bombing and machine gun attack in northern Spain yester­day, authorities said, hours after announcement of a separatists' cease-fire had raised hopes for Spain's stability in the wake of an at­tempted military coup. Awoman passerby was slightly injured, police said. "ETA-military (the radical wing) has given its answer," said a police spokesman after the attacks in the Bilbao suburb ofPortugalete. There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attack. The moderate wing of the ETA separatists held a clandestine news con­ference hours before and were quoted as saying that because of last week's attempt at a right-wing coup they were ordering commandos to cease violence and allow politicians to seek a solution to the Basque issue. Authorities said two bombs exploded 150 yards apart, loosing a rain ofnails and metal fragments on a police car and that the terrorists, also in a car, opened fire with submachine guns before they sped offin a hail ofreturn fire. -AP. 
Government soldiers backed by jet fighters battled anti-junta guerrillas at two towns in El Salvador's eastern province of San Vicente, according to peasants streaming into the capital yester­day from the embattled province. The refugees said troops loyal to the civilian-military junta, backed by the air power, repelled guerrilla as­saults launched late Saturday, but some witnesses reported "sporadic and heavy gunfire" yesterday around San Lorenzo and Santo Domingo. The battle for control ofSan Lorenzo, about 30 miles east ofhere, has been raging for three days, according to those who fled. The reports could not be independently confirmed but a military spokesman described fighting there as "an army clean-up operation." The spokes­man refused to comment on reports that Salvadoran army helicopters shuttled between San Vicete and the capital, ferrying wounded sol­
diers to military hospitals here. -AP. 
The air traffic controller whose radio warning prevented a jet-liner from possibly crashing into New York's World Trade Center said he has been on "traumatic leave" since shortly after the incident. Donald Zimmerman, 34, said Saturday that the Argentine plane was four miles from the twin towers, flying in clouds 1,500 feet lower than its assigned altitude about 10 p.m. on Feb. 20. An investiga­tion by the Federal Aviation Administration has yet-to determine just how the Aerolineas Argentinas plane carrying 49 passengers and a crew of nine got so low on its approach to Kennedy International Airport, Zimmerman said. "I feel the pilot did a heck ofa job," Zimmer­man said. "A 707 with an average speed of 240 knots does not react quickly." -AP. 
A 30 percent chance for snowflurries develop­ing through tonight. High in the low to mid 30s today. Low tonight in the low 20s. Becoming mostly sunny and a bit warmer tomorrow. High in the upper 30s. -AP. 

Regents eye SMC future 

Most members of the Saint Mary's student body would be surprised to learn that the Board of Regents made their semester appearance at Saint Mary's a week ago. They would be surprised because most students do not know such a body exists. Those who do know generally have only a vague notion of the purpose of this group. The Board of Regents appears on campus once a semester to conduct its business. The regents arrive in a flurry and leave in a flurry. During the two or three days they are here, the Regents are busy attending one committee meeting after another. At the end ofthe weekend the whole board meets to discuss the results of the committee meetings. 
The results of this past week's meeting won't be known until a public statement is released by the presi­dent's office. But whatever they accomplished in this meeting -as in all meetings of the Board -will affect the operation of the college. Students know this in­directly; they know whenever they want to enact a major change at Saint Mary's it must first be approved by the Board of Regents. Anything from the tenure of faculty to an extension ofvisistation hours requires the board's approval. 
Most of the pe9ple on the board aren't really as far removed from the actual 
Mrs. P. Jordan Hamel and Mrs. Mary Morris Leighton are two members who are actively involved in the Development Committee ofthe board. Mrs. Hamel travels from Chicago once a week to meet with the administration about the progress of the committee. Mrs. Leighton, a resident of South Bend, is in almost daily contact with the college. Mrs. Hamel described the Regents as being "dedicated and in­terested in the operation of the college. They all bring 
thoughts from the business and the cultural worlds and share them with the administration. The administration in turn shares with us what is happening at Saint Mary's, what their goals are. We then try and mesh these two thoughts and come up with what is best for the col­lege." 
Mrs. Hamel is an alumna of the college and has two daughters who graduated from Saint Mary's, one in ~ 975 and the other in 1979. Mrs. Leighton is unique in that she did not attend Saint Mary's, nor is she Catholic. But she is one of the mo~t influential members of the South Bend community, with a high regard for Saint Mary's as an educational institution for women. 

r-The_Ohs.erY-er_ Design Editor...................... Maura Murphy Design Assistants ................ Monica Gugle Patty Hull.-y Layout Staff............................... Kim Parent MikeZemick Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor........................... Tom Jackman Copy Editors ................................. Kclli Flint Valerie Evans Sports Copy Editor............. Dave Dziedzic Systems Control.. .............. Stephen Brown Ad Design ............................... Woody & Co. Photographer ......................... Chris Salvino  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  

As the need for financial stability in a period of nationwide economic difficulty has increased so has the importance of the Development Committee. Mrs. Hamel described the need for development of the col­lege as being "an ongoing necessity which must happen daily to ensure the future ofSaint Mary's." Mrs. Leighton explained that the purpose of the committee is raising funds, "either through present gifts, future gifts, or remembrance in one's will or e~tate." 
"Development is very vital for the future of Saint Mary's, which is probably why our committee is so active. If we do well it will continue to enable Saint Mary's to make the great educational strides it has made in the past," Mrs. Hamel continued "The projection for 
"I think it had to happen," Mrs. Leighton stated in reference to the economic cut­backs. "In the long run it will mean an adjustment, but we can go back to private enterprise, which was the way it was done before 1957. There was no aid for col­leges until then and they got along fairly well. We've become so dependant on federal aid for everything, and that is wrong. It has become a way oflife and it will not be easy to readjust. But it can be done." 
"The money for the colleges would come from en­dowments, and not from Washington," Mrs. Hamel con­tinued. "The purpose ofthe De,"elopment Committee is to build up the endowment fund and let it work for the college; to use the interest from the endowments to continues these financiat programs to help the students. 
Soaring tuition costs are a major concern ofstudents. Since the costs will never be reduced, students will need even more aid in the future to be able to attend Saint Mary's. The Board of Regents, through the Development Committee, is trying to find a solution. It may seem that the appearance of the board on campus is mysterious, but their work is actually very concrete. 
day-to-day life ofthe campus as it would seem. They are not just a bunch ofestranged business men and women who appear twice a year to make decisions concerning our college without any real consideration for the stu­dents. One board meml>er is a student, one a member of the faculty, and another the college's president. In addi­tion, many members are alumnae or have had a daughter attend Saint Mary's. This group ofpeople is very much directly con­cerned with the operation of the college. 
us, is !20,000 tuition per year for private colleges. So the role of development is very important. These are figures we are constatnly reading and we know the role we must play if we are 
be helpful to Saint Mary's." 
When asked if current federal cutbacks in financial aid to educational institu­tions will hurt most colleges in general, and Saint Mary's in particular, both women were optimistic about what could be done in the future to Insure financial aid to stu­dents who need it. 



GENERAL PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES 
-·­
~-•· 



HIll~ I 1111/11 U 
it, yes we're not saying he hasn't.
continuedfrom page I 
But we feel that it could be done a got to have some idealism, for things little bit betll;r. We're on the road, to work toward in the future. but we have to push on a bit more. 
Q: What is yourplatform ideafor Q: Your platform is very similar an "engraver loan service?" to Don Murday's. What's the dif-
A: That's something I brought up ference between you two? in my Senate campaign way back A (Borchers): I think everybody when. Basically, what I had con-wants basically the same thing. In ccived, was student government general, we're probably headed in buying a couple of engravers, and the same direction that Don is. But 1 they go out on loan to people so that think it's essentially a matter ofstyle. they can borrow them to mark their We come from outside student stereos and other valuables with government, so to speak, or more on their ID numbers. It's one of those "the edges." We're not up there in "right now" things, one of those im-Paul Riehle's very tight inner circle, mediate solutions that cost very we don't have indoctrinated beliefS little money. I can't see where it's that "this is the right way to do going to be a big money-eating deal things, and that's the only way it will to have student government buy a ever be done." I'm about two steps couple of these engravers. We're back, and I'm looking at things and just trying to prevent ripoffs, or at I'm probably seeing-different things kast give students the chance lO get than Murday. He sees an organiza­merchandise back. lion that functions, and I'm trying to 
Q: You don't feel Paul Riehle bas f'1 nd back and say, "Hey, if we put 
unified the student voice? things this way, it would work a lot A ( Can.ino ): He's worked toward bettt:r, and we 


============================= 
.Bishop 
.. .Q&A 


things much more efficient." presents: 
Canino: Before you can ac­complish anything, you have to have the student body behind you, and right now apathy is rampant. No one really cares... 
Q: Yes, but what will you do about apathy? 
A: You've got to show them that you're visible, you've got to show students that you care, who you are, I mean, we've even had people ask us who Paul Riehle·is, while we've been campaigning. · To combat apathy, you have to show them that things can he done, and the only way that people are going to listen to you is with results. 
Borchers: We need more victories like th<: escort system, which, not to blow my own horn, has been suc­cessful. It's one of those "right now" things. We saw a problem, and we handled it right now. and student government coordina.ted it, and it's a 
~victory in every sense. 


TWO DAYS ONLY! Mon-Tues March 2-3 9am unti15pm LAFORTUNE CENTER main lobby 
nmtinuedfrom page I 
wert•n't as interested as in years bdore.... We tried as much publicity.... we went to all lengths." 
The South Bend turnout was low compared to previous years. "We can't fault the ND students....we didn't gt·t town people," said Ricd­man. "We went to great lengths with high school kids," Riedman con­tinued, "we even gave them coupons." 
Ricdman said there were ads in theSouth Bend Tribune and The Ob­sen•er. He also said that the parishes were " very enthusiastic" about announcing Mardi Gras. 
Riedman complimented Joni 
Glockner and Therese Robb for 
thdr effort in the publicity depart­
ment. "They did an excellent joh....the problem was lack of response." 
The winners ofthe Grand Prize ­the car -were Jill Origer of Regina Hall, and her parents. 
The first place winner of the sel­ler's prizes was Barb Myers of Walsh Hall. She selected the trip to the Bahamas for two over brealt. The second place winner was Paula Cor­rigan of Badin Hall, who received the ski trip to Colorado. 
The campaign prize winners were Jodi Bertino of Holy Cross(SMC), who won a Black and White TV, Dave Enderle of Grace Hall, who won a wCl·kend trip to Chicago, and Teresa Meyer of McCandless Hall, who won a portable AM-FM cassette player. 
The winning halls, based on most tickets sold per student, were, in or­der, Walsh, Regina, and Farley. 

The Observer Monday, March 2, 1981 -page 3 
ALLEGHENY LUDLUM STEEL CORP. 
COUNTRY'S LEADING PRODUCER OF SPECIALTV STEELS 



MARCH 4 

CAREER IN~ ALES/MARKETIN-


Monday, March 2, 1981 -page 4




Editorials 
SBP-endorsement 
The office of Student .Body. P.resident require& a candidate 1with ' both a reali~tic flnd goal-oriented vision ofstudei1t ;The · SBP must be a lobbyist for the student body as articulates the student voice. Hi~ goals must matic, m1t ideaH:r.tic wishes f.or a utopian ,.,, • .,.~, ....u, have met with varied measures of~u~;cs::ll$.;_1\:l<hi having something ··.concrete••· 
others·a~:b~eving ·~uc.cess}\or:t ~-·--···· ·'·' student leader:whom.The Obs~··~rver ·wfs,lie:s u~eiJ«iP~tsl\/ 
•C1·@.·<JVH 
Murday is 
Wayne State conference 

Reagan considers draft 
Doonesbury 
YeAH, THIS IS /JUKe~ 
JIM8455AOOR I DON'T 
IJtJK£ C4LLING. 8/3ti&.VeIT/ 15 TilER& A 5/R, IT'sM/3, 
• JOAN C4tJCl/S HON&YI 
THER£? I 
' 

DENVtl<. I'M !JRCNNEB.? TRYING 7D lRACI< /{lEU, WHAT [)OWN MY CAR£-[)() YOIJ KNOW? 
~~='1:/n-H&'55TAYI~6 
B£R. IN HIS AD-fUjTH US. 
Garry Trudeau 


THAT'sA LIJNG 

DETROIT -Nineteen-year­old Dennis Sheminski borrowed $400 from his father ant d flew here last weekend to attend the first major anti-draft conference since the end of the Vietnam War. 
The short-haired, Everett (Wash.) Community College freshman had never been east of the Rockies. But he came to this depression-ridden city out of fear that he'll be drafted and end up in a box in El Salvador. 
Many of the 1200 high school and college students who slept in neighborhood church basements and on dormitory floors here on the Wayne State University campus expressed similar fears to our reporter, Michael Duffy. 
"It's our asses that are on the 
line," said one high school senior 
from Minneapolis, who 
conceded, "many students still 
think the draft isn't going to hap­
pen. We'vegottoeducatethem." 
To be sure, the teenagers who attended this conference aren't stupid. They see advertisements for defense contractors tn news magazines, hear Walter Cronkite report about the nation's under­paid and overworked armed forces and read in local newspapers about the Reagan ad­ministration· s "get tough" foreign policy. 
They have good reason for their trepidation. 
Despite campign pledges to end the Selective Service System's registration of 18-year-old males, President Reagan is edging ever closer to resuming a peacetime draft. 
Several days ago, the president 
admitted publicly that he's now 
hesitant about eliminating the 
registration program for fear such 
a move might send a signal to 
Moscow that "America is soft 
again." 

In an interview with the Har­vard Crimson, President Reagan 
admitted that he might favor resuming a draft "ifthe world is in such a situation that you believe the national security of our country might be endangered..." 
But there would be other motivations. 
Reagan has told aides in the Defense and State Department~ that it would be inconsistent for him to dismantle the registration program at the same time he's advocating a stronger U.S. defense posture. From a budgetary standpoint, the presi­dent also knows that a draft might produce savings for the Pentagon and taxpayers. Half of the Pen­tagon's current budget now goes for personnel costs. 
"The president led me to believe that he's slowly going to build support for a return of the draft," one Reagan aide said. "He doesn't want to do anything abruptly that could get him into hot political waters." 
Not to be left unprepared, some of the president's top defense aides have been heeding his recent remarks and preparing for the draft's return. 
Though the plans haven't been made public, the government is preparing to reinstitute a clas­sification system, possibly as ear­ly as this summer. 
Next year, a"reserve draft" is a good possibiliy. Under tbis plan, young men would report for three months of training, and then go on inactive duty for five years. 
Congressional opponents of the draft are disturbed by the developments, but are laying off. the president for the time being for fear the slightest criticism might cause him to act even more quickly. 
Meanwhile, to the surprise and 
embarrassment of principals and 
school boards, groups opposing 
the draft are organizing in high 
school lunchrooms. 
"It took some time," said 17­year-old Heather Thompson of Detroit's Cass High School, where a local chapter of the Com­mittee Against Registration of the Draft(CARD) has become an offi­cial school club. "The school ad­ministration said we couldn't be 'against' the draft. They said we had to examine both sides. But we prevailed." 
Cass High School's CARD or­ganization wrote and distributed I 0,000 fliers to Detroit-area high school groups, which were asked to help plan the conference and register and house its par­ticipants. 
In manner and appearance, many of the young participants at this conference differed greatly from their 1960s counterparts. They were short-haired, neatly­dressed, articulate and poised. They talked to political and labor leaders with reverence and revealed mixed feelings of hope and fear about standing up to the 
government. 
But stand up they did to put the country. on notice that draft-age Americans won't fight without good reason -something that's been lacking in the government's rhetoric to date. 
Surely our nation's military planners and political leaders can't afford to take these teenagers for granted in their long-range planning. 
Everyone knows how excited high school students can get about basketball championships, band concerts and other rites of passage. Imagine if even a small percentage of them carry that energy into draft resistance during the next few years. 
Maxwell Glen and Cody Shearer are syndicated colum­nists. 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor·in·Chief......................................Paul Mullaney Features Editor.......................................Molly \X'oulfe Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Editor.............. , ........................... Mack Rust Photo Editor ...............................................john ;'l,,acor 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Editorials Editor..............................Michael Onufrak Business Manager ..................................Greg He<l~e~ University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Collese. It does not necessarily Senior Copy Editor.....................Macy Fran Callahan reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reponed Executt11e 'Vews Editor.........................Tomjackman Controller ............................................... ....... Jim Rudd as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a NewsEditor ............................................... Lynne Daley Ad11ertisingManager........ .......................... Mark Ellis majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views SMC Executive Editor..........................Macgie Brassil Adllertising Sales Manager............ Michael MeSally of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and SMC News Editor.......................................Mary Leavitt Circulation Manager............................Beth Hackett ·he free ~xpression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Sports Editor...........................................Beth Huffman Production Manager...........................)ohn McGrath 
=The"~Observet'c =_c-~_-=---~ =, 




~~c:1lC3l~============================M==on=d=a=y=,·M~ar=c=h=2=,1=9=8=1===p=ag=e=5=;
Molarity Michael Molinelli 
~CHJ A~E W! 'COIN~ IN ~e-pol-L. 5 I C::L..I P? 




Snow131anket~Area. 

ACROSS 28 Security,
The Daily Crossword 
1 Fracture In law aid 29 Thrash 5 Ukraine 32 Riode city la­9 Savory 33 Mexican plant coin 13 Oil:comb. 34 Tidal wave 
form 35 Confeder· 14 Refuge ates 16 Bewildered 38 Heraldic 17 Legal term 
Instrument 39 Midday 20 Apprehend, 40 Flattered In away 41 Way: abbr. 21 Fencing 42 Lumber 
strokes measure: 22 Teut. abbr. 23 -of 43 Rapid 
execution 44 Dutch 24 Affirmed painter 
Friday's Puzzle Solved 
© 1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 45 Language: 19 Gem 

abbr. 23 Black buck 46 Calm of Nepal 49 Element 24 -berth 
found In 25 Factory platinum 26 Bret-ore 27 Feminine 
54 Protests suffix guilt 28 Stupefy 57 "When I 29 Fine 
was-" cretonne 58 Brightness 30-robbery 59 Out of work 31 lnwant 60 Notany: 33 Certain 
dial. teachers, 61 Small for short 
amount 34 Cheese 62 Burden 36 Infinite 37 Certain DOWN church 
1 Constabu· 42 Musical lary group 2 Fragrant 43 Malay 
wood skirt 3 Stitched 44 Reckless 4 Digits 45 Flax cloth 5 Plundered 46 Arch 6 Thin cake 47 Ms Grasso 7 Bear: Sp. 48 Bring up 8 Humor 50 Satan, to 9 Relentless Scotsmen 
one 51 --China 10 Slave of 52 School 
old letters 11 Film spool 53 Reward 12 Barks 55 Symbol for 15 Social Jesus 
standing 56 Recent: 18 Overcoat comb. form 

Courses in: ----.. Courses in: ---.... Business Art 
Italian HistoryEconomics Nursing 
Education History 
Government 
Travel in:----... Travel in:----.. 
Ireland England 
Germany France 
Switzerland Italy
France Scotland 
Organizational Meeting March 10 For Info Call: A. R. Block 272-3726 284-4948 

Campus 
•11: 
IS a.m., .3::\0 p.m. -com· puter mini-coursc, sas basks, room I I'; n·mh. 

•6 
p.m. -roundtahlc discus­sion, "how to idcntify a drink· ing prohlcm and what to do about it." room 2H holy noss hall, sponsorcd: counsding and 

• 
...,,_.~() p.m. sophomorl' literary ft:sti\'al, john powl·rs. novclist, llll'morial library auditorium. rcccption follows. 

•7:.30 
p.m. cinl·ma, "gcrmany ycar Zl-ro," anncn· bcrg auditorium, sponsort·d: dcpt. of communications and theatrt'. 


carl·cr dl·vdopmcnt.  
•6:.~0  p.m.  - studcnt  scnatt·  
ml·cting,  room  I 22  haycs­ 
hcalr.  

. ..Preview 
continuedfrom page I 
Joining hcr oldcr hrothcr John in the world of politics, albeit student politics, is Patricia IIilcr, a lyons Hall sophomore. Ms. Hiler ft:cls that after having scrved on a special projl'Cts committee in Lyons Hall, shc is aware of the necds ofthc campus. 
The candidate listcd among thosc needs more social space, the reduc­tion of off-campus crime, and an in­crease in on-campus security. Ms. Hiler would also likc to see the meal plan rcduced from 21 to 14 meals 
per week. In addition, she supports an optional laundry servici: for both men and women. To bcttcr serve her constituents Ms. lliler would like to work with thc Hall Presi­dc:nts, and the llall Councils. 
Ms. Hiler fecls that shc is the right person for thc District 3 scat. "I realize the problems that the campus faces. I'd like to correct them, and I feci that I could do the best job correcting thcm," she said. 
Complcting the District 3 field is Morissey llall Junior Bob Zimmer­man. Zimmerman bclieves that he offers a new insight into campus issues, due to spending his sopho­more year abroad. "I feel that I sec things in a new perspcctlve now, and I'd like to usc that ncw insight in 
dealing  with  issues,"  Zimmerman  
explained.  
According  to  Zimmcrman,  his  

campaign is "ccntcrcd cntlrcly on 
communication. "I fcd that it Is non­
existent bctwecn studl·nt and 
senator. I want to makc studcnt 
govcrnmt·nt an."l'ssibk-," he said. 
One way that Zimmcrman proposes 
to do this is by placing com­
plaint/suggcstion boxes in thc 
dorms. "Instead of shrugging some­
thing off or complaining, a studcnt t could writt· it down," Zimmerman 
pointed out. 
Zimmerman intcnds to takc his cue from sud1 l·ommunication. 

Today's Quote 
The Obserl!er is introducing a ncw feature on thc Today page. "Today's Quote," a short thought on thc human condition, will appcar in each issuc. Michael Brennan, a fresh­man from Morrissey Hall, selccted and compiled the quotations. 
I am only one, but still/ am one. 1cannot do everything, but still/ can do something; And because I cannot do every­thing I will not refuse to do the some­thing that/ can do. 
Edward Everett Hale 


The Observer Monday, March 2, 1981 -page 6 
...Track 


cv11tinuedfrom page 8 

ever felt at the end. That encourages me for the next time. I should be able to still knock offsome time." 
"I think that my success, as de­pendent as it is on so many other people, is an indication ofwhere the program is headed. So many people have done well, it just so happens that I've been getting all of the publicity." 
"Coach Piane and Coach Kelly have done a great job with the program. It's impossible to overem­phasize the part they played in hel­ping me." 
around the United States. As a result, Aragon was the only Irish com­petitor to place. 
Notre Dame's Tim Macauley, however, was cited by Piane as run­ning an outstanding race also."Tim ran a 4:12 in the mile which is a very fine time. It is even more impressive when you consider that this was the first time that he had run the mile this year. By comparison, Aragon's first time in the mile this year was a 4:10," Piane said. 
Jim Moyar was another bright spot in a mediocre team perfor­mance. The sophomore Keenan Hall resident ran a personal best in the the ACC. The Irish will run against Northern Illinois. "Northern Illinois ran very well this weekend. They have a heck of a team," commented Pian e. 
In two weeks Aragon and the dis­tance medcly relay of Moyar, Macauley, Jacque Eady, and Rick Rogers will travel to Detroit, Mich., for the NCAA Indoor Track and Field Championships. Though Aragon has qualified for the championships in both the mile and half-mile, he will be running only in the mile, the stronger ofthe two events for him. 
Only two runners, Salmon Nam­buyi of the lJniversity of Texas at El 
The Illini Classic featured a 1000-yard run of2:14.
Mike Ruwe (right) won a unanimous decision over Greg Hansen 
number ofoutstanding athletes from The final indoor meet of the
in quarterfinal Bengal Bout action. (photo by Chris Salvino) 
universities and track clubs from season will be this coming Friday at 
-_-1 monday'night film series· 
J 

Tony's Shoe Repair and Moccasins 
announces a new location 1023 E. Madison
Monday, March 2 
234-8999 
Germany Year Zero (Italy/France) 1947 Hours: 8 am -4:30 pm Mon. -Sat.
Roberto Rossellini scripted and directed this austere and 
....................................................................... 
powerful vision of Post-War Germany seen through the 
: = eyes of an emotionally devastated young boy. ! SpeciallO% Off ~5· 
5 Ask Ton abo~t.~~~S!9.~.~.t.~.9.!0!.P.Jf.Y.9.1J.r:'.t..i 
We c.arry 

_, S~oe-~
THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 7:30pm admission $1.00 


!~~~k~~~e ~;~:::goods­
sponsored by 
11 repair
in stock and special order 
ND -SMC COMMUNICATION & THEATRE_ 
The quickest way to get 

emergency money. 


An emergency stop for repairs can VISAt card. A Western Union Charge wipe out even 'the best-heeled traveler. Card Money Order, up to $1,000, will be Luckily, all you need is the price of a flashed to the Western Union office or phone call to get you the money before agent nearest your emergency. your car gets off the lift. Here's what to do when you need money in a hurry. 
3•Pick up your money-usually within two hours-at the local Western Union 
1. Call home. Report the situation, and office or agent. There are 8,500tell the folks they can get emergency ·nationally, except in Alaska. 
cash to you fast by phone. 
Conveniently, about 900 locations are open 24 hours. It's that easy.
2. Ask them to call Western Union's Be sure to remind your parents about toll-free number, 800-325-6000 (in our toll-free number. It's all they need to Missouri, 800-342-6700), anytime, day or call Western Union to the rescue. 
night. They charge the money and the 
*The MasterCard name is owned by Interbank Card Association.
service fee to their MasterCard* or +The VISA name is owned by VISA International. 
Paso and Sidney Myre of Villanova (both recruits from Africa) have run better times than Aragon this year. At present these two athletes stand between Chuck Aragon and Notre Dame's first national championship of198l. 
Steinbrenner appoints Lou Saban 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (AP) -
Steinbrenner named Lou 
a longtime football coach, president of the New York Yankees Sunday and immediately tossed him a hot potato -the AWOL Reggie 
One of Saban's first duties as ad­ministrative head of baseball's most successful franchise will be to assess the estimated 52,500 penalty to be handed the $3 million outfielder for his failure to arrive at spring training 
time -for the second con­secutive year. "George and I have known each other for very many years," Saban 
a small press gathering in a Yankee trailer alongside the playing field. "Like him, I feel strongly about discipline. You have to pay a price to 
In announcing Saban's appoint­
Steinbrenner acknowledged that he was installing a man whose career had been'spent entirely in an­other sport. 
is nothing magical about 
40 years of baseball ex­perience," the Yankee owner said. "He doesn't have it. I didn't have it." 
"George exemplifies everything that sport stands for," Saban said. "He's a winner. Personally, I think George's desire always has been to be a football coach." 
/USB 

ArtShow 

The annual I.U.S.B. student an show opens April 12 in the school library ( 1825 North Side Blvd). A reception will be held on that date at 
wit_h free refreshments, including punch, hors d'oeuvres and other dishes. The show runs through 
May I, and will feature drawings, designs, prints, paintings and sculptures, with selections of each for sale. There is no admission fee and all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are invited. 

,..__ ROCCOS--t 
men's and women's hairstyling at comfortable prices531 N. Michigan 233-4957 
-.,.. _, 
..''1,. 
~--------------------------------~-------------------------------------------------~-~---~ -­

Sports .:B==r="=·e:.aifJl=s====#===========M=on=d=ay=,M=a=rc=h=2=,1=98=l=p=a=ge=7:::J 
by The UhJt'rl't'r .tnd Tht• A.rroauled Prell 
The Notre Datne ~wim teatntost to Bradley, 64-49, Saturday in Peoria, Ill. The Irish are now 9-3 and travd 10 Terre llautc for the Midwest Invitational Championships on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday. 
Notre Datne and SMC fencers were in action at the University of Illinois on Saturday. The Belles met with the most success, going 2-1. Saint Mary's defeated Wayne State and Northwes­tern by identical scores of 5-4 and dropped a 5-4 decision to Wiscon­sin. Captain Sharon Moore was 6-2 and is 30-1 I on the season. The Bdks arc now 14-.'\on the season. The Notre Dame men were 2-2 on Saturday, losing to Wayne State I Jnivcrsity and U. of Illinois, and defeatin!-\ Wisconsin lJ. and Nortlm estern lJ. Sabre captain Greg Armi was I 1·1 on tht· day, and now ha.' a 35-H sca.~on record. Saturday's losses snapped an I H-gamc win strc.tk (stretching hack to last season). Tht· men arc IH-2 on the season. The Notre Dame women lost all three of thdr contests. Thdr record is now 13-4. 
The 1981 Bengal Bouts continu•· with the scmi­11nals on Wcdm:sday evening at 7: ~0 in the ACC main arena. Tickets arc still availahk and are priced at S2 for ringside and S I. 50 for general admission. Tht· finals, featuring the long-awaited Marc l.dUant·-Scott Zcttek super-heavyweight matchup, will take place on Saturday at 7:30 p.m. Tickets are priced at $3 for ringside and SI.50 general admission. 
The SMC basketball teatn won the Division 3 Dis­
trict Tournament Saturday night with a 62-50 win over Manchester. 
The Belles had advanced 10 the finals by defeating IIJPU-Fort Wayne 
earlier in the day. Anne Armstrong wa.~ named to the all-tournament 
team. 

Doubles 140 lba.-Mike Ruwe del. Greg Hansen, No. 1 -Hopwood & Hoyer (NO) del. unan. dec.: John Conag han del. Scott Witsken & Wallace 7-5, 6-3. Gunderman. split dec.: Fntz F1sher and 
No.2-Annear & Seitz (M) del. Falvey & M1ke Martersteck-bye. Noonan 6-t. 6-4.
Ohio State 
No.3-Pis her & Tim Hennessy (M) del. 145 lbs.-Dan Mohan del Tom Proly, 
Tom Robison & Paultdzik 6-2.6-3. unan.' dec.. M1ke Doyle del. Mike Esser.
Quadrangular 
split dec.; Steve S1erowsk1 del. Ed Fisher. Notre Dame 5, Ohio State 4 unan. dec.; Tom Bush del. Steve Kramp!,
South Carolina 9, NO 0 Singles unan. dec.
Singles 

No. 1 -Mark McMahon (ND) del Lior
No.1 -Zoran Petkovich (SC) del. Mark 
Rusinek 7-5,6-0. 150 lbs. -John Donovan del Frank McMahon 6-2. 0-6. 6-2. No.2-Herb Hopwood (ND) del. George 
Tisek, unan. dec . Hugh Gnlflth del. Jack 
No. 2 -Uti Pettersson (SC) del. Herb 
Learmonth 2-6, 6-3. 7-5. Selvaggio, unan. dec.: Paul Derba del. T1m 
Hopwood 5-7,6-2.6-4. No.3-Reino Jokinen (OSU) del. Mark 
Ronan, unan. dec , M1ke Mulligan del. No. 3-Chuck Hodg1n (SC) del. Mark 
Hoyer 6-4, 6-4. Steve Bergoon, split dec 
Hoyer7-5, 6-2. No. 4-Jim Falvey (ND) del. Peter Braun
No.4-Daron Roberts (SC) del. Jim Fal­6-7 (3-5), 7-6 (5-3), 6-2. 
157 lbs.-Mark Nasca del. John Comis­vey 6-4, 6·2. 
key, unan. dec.. Mark Le1s1ng del. Jim Til­
No.5-Tom Hartzell (ND) del. J1m Kohls
No. 5 -Trevor Raal (SC) del. Tom 
lotson. unan. dec., J1m Mladen1k and Dave Hartzell 6-4. 6-3. No. 6 -Chris Cunin (OSU) del. Tom 
6-4,4-6.7-6 (5-1). 
(SiJider) Lockard-bye. No. 6 -Brian McDonald (SC) del. T1m 
Rob1son 6-4,4-6. 7-6 (5-3).
Noonan 6-3, 6-4. 
163 lbs. -Ed Bullett del John
Doubles
Doubles O'Sullivan. unan. dec.. M1ke Marrone del.
No. 1 -Hopwood & Hoyer (ND) del. No. 1 -Pettersson & McDonald (SC) John Power. unan dec.. Tom McCabe and
Jokmen & Jack Kohls 6-3. 6-4. 
del. Hopwood & Hoyer 6-2,5-7,6-3. Chris D1gan-bye
No.2-Rusmek & Learmonth (OSU) del No.2-Hodgm & Roberts (SC) del. Fal­
falvey & Noonan 7-6 (5-2), 6-4. 
vey & Noonan 6-4. 6·3. 170 lbs. -M1•(e Grey del. Jerry Kegel·No. 3 -Braun & Cunin (OSU) del 
No.3-PetkOVICh & Bill He1ser (SC) del. man. unan dec., Don Oooher def Doug
McMahon & Hartzell6-4, 4-6, 6-4. 
Tom Robison & Paulldzik 7-5, 6-3. Ma1haffer. spill dec., Rob Verlurth del 
Paul Shubert. unan dec., Greg Brophy­Other Scores: South Carolina 9, Oh1o 
bye. State 0: South Carolina 8, M1ami (Ohio) 1: 
Notre Dame 5, Miami (Ohio) 4 
Singles 

Oh10 State 6. Miami (Oh1o) 3. 
1nlbs.-Gar·, Holihan def Ralph Dob·
No. 1 -Mark McMahon (ND) del. Mark son, unan. dec.: Dave Sassano del M1ke
W1tsken 6-4. 6-4. Fmney. unan. dec . M1ke Burke and J1m
No.2-B1ll Annear (M) del. Herb Hop­·..,
BOXING 
Burlebach-bye
wood 6-4, 6-7 (3-5), 6-4. 
No. 3 -Mark Hoyer (ND) del. Scott Heavyweight -M1ke Golt1ns del. Pete
1981 Bengal Bouts
Wallace 6-3. 6-3. 
Wuellner. split dec., John lglar del Steve
No.4-Jim Falvey (ND) del. Steve lsle1b First Round Results 6-3. 1-6. 6-3. 132 lbs. -Bob Titser del. Hugh Stnegel, split dec . Neal Elattrache and M1ke Walsh-bye.
VanAuken. unan1mous decision: Bryan her6-4, 6-7 (4-5). 6-3. Bergin del. Jim Connolly, unan. dec.: T1m No. 6-Jim Seltz (M) del. Tim Noonan Broderick del. Chns Fisher, unan. dec.. Super Heavyweight -Marc LeBlanc 
No.5-Tom Hartzell (ND) del. Steve Fis­
6-3.6-4. Rob Rivera-bye. and Scott Zettek-bye. 

·---·--··--_________________.. _______ 
-------·-----------------------­
~\II, l.t~·o~f•t•·! loh II .j,..,f ht• It'\ t'tvt:t111y 4 4~ p '' IWO .iJ~S pti('t' 'U lht' 
''-~lit' ,, ~..,,,,, 11 tl 1•· ·I,~ 'HI• lht.' Ohs.erver ,,tfu.e· ,\di ,1 .. j c•p!. r.t~>:~•l•e•1!i 
Mt mo•• , lllr (1\IIJil f I Itt" , (I no ol ,, 'IJ 4 4 S""lt ,,, .\11 I 1.·1 ~!r.tflf!lh. 11lu'.at he 
pii'·Polld ••tlllf~/ 111 l•t'l'iflll 111 thruu(,th thP m 1ttl





Classifieds 
lost on 2·22 In Angela one Spidel gold Need two rides to Fl Lauderdale Area BOSTON BUS DETAILS AT SIGNUP Joe, Nobody IS uglier lhan Jell Jeffers. over Spring Break. Will share usual.
watch. II found, please call 4332. TUESDAY LEAVES THE 13th I'm a funny Why do you hale Goop? Aewarcl RETURNS THE 22nd. Moe John Falg1an1.
[-·NorlceO 
Call Cathy 4077 SMC. ...................1 ....4• ·.f4...., ......,... .:.... What are you up to these days? We
(The above was a parody of I hose im· ~d rl~ l_q_ptorlhern ~ P~t\1111>: LOST Notebook lef11n Math Bldg afler need ttde 10 fl. lauderdale lor spring NEED AIDE TO FLORIDA, preferably never see you anymore 
matt ure anal onflces in Keenan, e.g.
towri.'llofMN ..,.f.LEAVE no Mitt B1o lesl Tuesday Return to 305 Sottn break. Will share driving and gas. Call Ft. Lauderdale area, for 4 g11ls, Will Monlgomery Ward and Moe. who. for 6-B 
lla.n~ll,-1.1.·1".! Will--~ or call 11542. Ed al1850 or 1663 share usual. We wouldn't mind spill­tree, liner lhe personal column of thai OPEN A DOOR TO SLFCall M1ke II ~ill ling mlo 2 and 2 So call if you have forgellable travesty, lhe Keenan Rag, OPEN A DOOR TO SLFLOST: ONE OPAL RING IN ANTIQUE NEED 2 AIDES TO FT. LAUDERDALE. room for lwo or four. Ask for LESLIE or wilh their worlhless babblmg about
PROFESSIONAL TYPING Term OPEN A DOOR TO SLF
SETTING AEWAADIIII IF FOUND, FLA. AREA OVER SPRING BREAK MAUREEN 7936. 
I heir own bor1ng D.B.-1sh loves. You fall PLEASE CALL MARY AT 4956 (SMC) CALL KATHY 4077 (SMC). 
papers. theses, etc. Tape transcription OPEN A DOOR TO SLF 
Lasl year's same low pr1ces. All work under clueless. whatever thai every mghl this week 
lost: Am way brown attache case with means ...... ) guaranteed aardvark automatic solu­
LO~T-HP32E calculalor last l11day NE:ED AIDE HOME TO FLORIDA FOR Aloe Vero mfo tnstde and other 1mpor· 
llons. 289-6753 Dear Greggoe.
morn. If found. call Brian, 1773 BREAK. Call Dav1d 267-6966 lanl paper. If found call Independent Thanks so much for laking me 10 IheCab Co. 234·0300 or 234·0932 and ask 
CHUCK MASON

DON'T WALK ALONE Ill formal. You really were greal on the
LOST A CANON 35mm CAMERA (Gill· need ttde to M1am1 or Ft. Lauderdale. for Rev. ROCK CLIPGET AN ESCORTIll dance floor. and I lhlnk you are ttghl­17). PfiOBABLY LEFT IN THE ACC. Will share lhe usual. Call 3052 ask lor SBP-SBVP
Student Escort Serv~ce· On-Call Sun to lhey should hove played more Jeff Be­
Beres. RYAN VEA BERKMOES FOR UMOC
THE PICTURES (AND THE CAMERA) The only 1/ckel to survive the recant
Thurs 7 to M1dn1ghl Call6283 (OBUD) THERE IS NO DOUBT. ck. I can 'I wa11 to come over ton1ghl so AI lhe NO Library 10 to 11 45 pm All we can lock Geoff oul aga1n and play
HAVE GREAT VALUE TO ME. -­Spanish Coup. AEWAfiD .. CALL MARY. 8085 
NEEDEDII1 ride to NORTH CAROLINA 
aludenl Volunteers Spm lhe Bollia ·· Unllllonoghl. lover 
over SPRING BREAK. Will share ALL Vinyl" Jeffers for UMOC. Lynne Daley is a hack?USE ITIIIIII DRIVING AND EXPENSES. Call Mike at ""·················· .......................... Mon1ca DON'T BE AFAID TO CALLI Chuck Mason for Student Body Presi­
1424 THANKSII CHUCK MASON.. Not to elominate frs Angela's blllhday Sat. She·s 21
dent (An Imaginary character for an im­panelals. but to elimmate Ted. G1ve her e call (SMC) 4677 and ask
USED & OUT-OF-PAINT BOOKS agmary position) about the m1dmght canoe ndes Love.
bought, sold. searched ERASMUS 
[FORRENCJ ~R-SALE JANE-6ooEs NoT HATE scoof' D&M
BOOKS Tues-Sunday, 12·6. 1027 E. For a limited lime only! Need two nders 
L~--~--·.. ____________.
Wayne (One block south of Eddy· to New York C1ly. Leav1ng morning of CHUCK MASON TornO,Jefferson Intersection) March 14. $55.95 roundtrip. Call SMC
MUST SELL Fishmg-Sk1 Boal18 II Tri­CHUCK MASON Sure you can. If they serve 11 al lhe
5196today. MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
Hull w•lh 60 HP Johnson 0-B. Ski Aces CHUCK MASON Golden Arches Emergency loans lor NO sludenls $20· FOR RENT· UGLY DUCKLING RENT· & Toll-Top Trt tncl; Excellent Condition. Increase on and off campus cnme--­KILLI MemaC. Call272·6252.
$200 One percenl 1n1eres1 De In one A·CAA FROM $7.95 A DAY AND 7 Vole Chuck Masonllllflll KILLI I would respeclfully like to Sflcond
monlh. Open 1130-12.30 M·F Base· CENTS A MILE. PHONE 259-UGLY KILLI Ryan Ver Berkmoes· nommat•on for
rnent of LaFortne. F1nal day to seniors FOR RESERVATIONS. TOM ENGLERT, TOM ENGLERT, TOM KILL I UMOC. (hint as to my 1dentoly) Do you 
to apply IS Fttday. March 13 ENGLERT, THREE CHEERS FOR THE AVAILAI3LE NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2 UMOC, UMOC, UMOC. LOVE you know Chuck Mason for SBP We ask your need more? 
[-PERSONALS )
Need ttde 10 Delroii·Soulhlleld FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES 234·2626 who. We love you tom. support. 
To I hose who wonder weekend ol March 6. Call D1ck 1464 
JANE·O, Mooaa Recop 
luna. SCOOP,WHY DO YOU HATE SCOOP? Since lale Oclober. lhe mooses have
Irish Flyers Flymg Club acceplmg new happy birthday! you finally made 1110 WHY DO YOU HATE JANE·O? 
been amoosed by the Iambie puns of
members Student polols welcome. Call 2111 lhanx for the memones and the one known only as Control
E•t. 4234 6AM-5PM remember: lunas do have good tasle. L WA~TED ] blld BYE, SCOOP. WE'LL MISS YOU..
Ann Landers says. T op•cs rangmg from subatom•c par· Have a problem? Can'l sleep? Can't 11c1es to anlhropology have been the
BOSTON SPRING BUS FINAL SIGNUP ............~ ... 
work? Can'l? Killed anyone recenlly? ob1ec1 of thiS punsler's w11
TUES MAR 3. 7·9 LaForlune Bnng $50 Who cams aboul sweaters? Dorothy v~t~ i~; Ch~~k M~~~n-Student Body
Constipated? Fall down and go boo­A few weeks ago, Ihe plolth•ckened
depoa11 Bus leaves Mar 13. Round wears her sweats top in President Rock Clip -Student Body
boo? when I he cold and calculallng Cap1a1n
Tllp·$100 Questions?? M1ke 2836 PUBLICI Shame on you Doll (I told you Vice President 
I NEED A AIDE TO EMTSBUAG, Well, all you have to do is GET Axe of the Fourth DIVISIOn. Second
I'd do ot)MARYLAND (MSM COLLEGE) OR COUNSELING I Wmg of Control Corps -builder of
NEED AIDE FOR 2 OR 4 GIRLS TO saybye
GETTY~;BG, PA-ANYTIME. JOE 1142 Moose Conlrol-discovered a flaw 1n
FLORIDA AREA. PAEFEAABL Y FT Congralulalions to the new SMC LAUDERDALE AREA. OVER SPRING Jumor Class off1cerslll hope I hat Tues­LYNNE DALEY IS NOT A HACK SHE IS 
Control Axe was fearful that the flaw BREAK WILL SHARE USUAL PLEASE day night is an indication of what we A HELLUVA WAITER. ED KONAADY
NEED AIDE TO PHEONIX. WILL THE GREAT BOOKS--THE GREAT would force destruction of lhe unit he SHARE USUAL CALL MARK 3303 MINDS .. MEET FACULTV AND STU· had labored so hard to creale 
have lo look forward lo. If il is I can'l SAYS SO. AND EVERYONE ELSE DENTS OF THE GENERAL PROGRAM Even as A•e was pondettng the taleCALL LESLIE OR MAUREEN AT 7936 wall lilt ne•l year! Dz1minski-1 st1ll owe AGREESIll
I need a ttde to Denver al Break Call OF LIBERAL STUDIES MONDAY. of Control. lhe &•oi oed-headed poac·
yo~n.

John al1177 MARCH 2. 7:30 P M , GRACE PIT her, the 1nfamous Caplam Zero Max.
ATTENTION BROHIBS f1 BROHAM·RYAN VEA BEAKMOES FOR UMOC. 
came on the scene Growmg tn power Need rode lo Washington, DC THERE CAN BE NO DOUBTIIIIIIII HE IS MEAS WE HAVE ENTERED THE 
area-­Jeff Jeffers IS very ugly. and mlluence on I he outsk1rts or Con·
KUPPE ZONE. CAT IS DOG AND DOGTHE MOST OBVIOUS CHOICE. OF
Can leave Wednesday aflernoon Will lrol, the rebel Max choselo call h•mself 
IS CAT, INGE MUMUS ATTACK US AT
COURSE IIIII!

share d'1v1ng. elc. Call T J, 3207. COTEY Colonel. W11h each pass•ng day. lhe
EVERY TURN. IT IS UP TO MAGIC
LOST/FOUND 
IT IS FINALLY MARCH AND THAT poacher grew more bold. mekong plaon
CARL, THE REAR COMM. TEX HAEL·Make L•fe Easy
A•de nueded lo 51 Louis lor Sprmg MEANS THAT I CAN OFFICIALLY AN­h•s mlenllo overlhrow Moose Control. 
MAN, & CAP BOSCHE J VANDE TOVote for BZ
break Call Kev1n. 1600 NOUNCE MY DEPARTURE AS The fens/on. (LaGrolla parody ­
PROTECT US PS BE COVERED IN SOMEONE ONCE SAID: IT'S A TOWN Control!& subtle 1
BOB ZIMMERMANN THE K--ZONE BUY KUPPEDENTIALStudent Senate 

Alders needed from Boston lo NO on FULL OF LOSERS AND I'M PULLIN From every &Ide. the pressure m· Mar 21 Call Kevin. 1800 OUT OF HERE TO WIN I" creased A•e prepared to deslroy Con· GET A PIECE OF THE BLOCK.
D•slttcl3 THE ONE AND ONLY BETS t:oiie'i:ev·~;;·~al.iii,,i·P'e:re·L:oiiei:ev lrol: Me• sought to overlhrow Control. LOST A PAIR OF EYEGLASSES. HELPI2 need 11des to and from LONG ··············· ......... forUMOC Control was mekong m1slakes. h11
TEAl..THANKS SO VERY. VERY MUCH LIGHT BROWN FRAMES IN A NAVY ISLAND lor spttng break Will share TYPING MY HOME. UNIV. PARK AREA. FOR COMING HOPE WE CAN HAVE A matenai was gett1ng worse The out· CASE. LOST FEB. 12.FAI CALL drtvmg e•penses Call MARY BETH 4· 277·3085 GOOD TIME B-O·B, HAPPY BELATED B·DAYIII look was gnm SUSAN AT 7859 1·«14 PROCRASTINATION PREVAILS. Then. the mooses came to the a1d at
LOVE. BETH Ne~dr.ders1~ C~l;;~;~,~ l~~~•ng :i~i2 Control. Reports began follettng 1n LOST COMP GOVT NOTEBOOK. WANTED. Room male lo share A pi 3B, ok, ok. 1f everyone really Is gelling so from the Oshag1an sector I hal Control 
Call (SMCj 5425 or (ND)8420 NEED AIDE TO EDINA FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL 1279 
LEFT ON COPY MACHINE IN NOTRE DAME APTS. CONTACT 267· sock of my lillie self-Indulgences in lhe had altoes lhere. Leiters from the LAFORTUNE IF FOUND, PLEASE 6234 OR off-campus housmg olhce Need 'lders to New York C1ly area. 0: Who was the greatest expalriate personals column. I'll stop. mooses lhroughoul the Dom•an Way CALL MARK 1686 Leavmg march 13. Call (SMC) 5196 or Flem•sh painter '" lhe Yukon 1n the when hell freezes over. buoyed Control's sagg•ng confodence. 
Need 11de to Dallas lor break. Call John 4961 lor all other exc111ng details 15th cenlury? scoop and even Caplam A•e began lo believe LOST-Camera-Wednesday February H1gg•ns al 8553 or 1715 and leave a A. H1eronymoose Bosch lhal there m•ghl be hope for Control. 25 PleaSfl call277-7695 Desparalel message BOSTON II SIGNUP FOR SPRING BUS (Prof Leader and Ihe Ar1 Trads crowd II IS hereby decreed thai hell shall Axe, sensmg that Zero Max was a 
MAR 3. 7-9 LaFortune. $50 non-refund. -Control sees) lreeze over 15 days hence greater danger to the umverse than any LOST GREEN NURSING NOTEBOOK Needed. A1de to Houston lor Spnng deposit requited, or bring full payment Captam Axe flaw 1n Control. soughllhe cauSfl of the Chuck Mason, The onlyCand•dale from 
IN 203 O'SHAUGHNESSY ON TUES­break S1nce i rece1ved no response to of $100 for round lttp. Questions? Mike flaw He found and corrected I he flaw, DAY PLEASE CALL 4486 (SMC) OR my last plea. I will now share the 2836 or Jom 1528 BOSTON SPRING Ihe Norlh Quad Boy, that Axe •• mean I lhen JOined forces w11h Control lo RETURN TON D LOST & FOUND unusual" Call Kathy, (41)4291 BUS II IBul he is • subtle man) prevenllhe Impending revolt 
And so llatando. 
., 

.. ... -~ 
~ ,loj 
.:; ·. •:
t 
!• 
.: ...'

. .. ·,; '• .'1,
~ 
r 
Monday, March 2, 1981 -page 8

SRQrts 
Final home game 
Tri-captains excel as Irish -win 
By BETH HUFFMAN half," said Don "Mickey" Donoher, The second-halfmirrored the first Sports Editor head coach for the Dayton club. as the Irish stretched their lead, put­"They got a pretty good lead and we ting the game from. Dayton's reach. Saturday's 70-57 Irish win over didn't have the offensive ·punch to The game wasn't even close, or con­
Dayton will go down in history as an­make a game out ofit." troversial enough to include a other great game under the ACC Relying on the scoring and Digger-Donoher fireworks display dome -and not because the con­rebounding of Tripucka, Woolridge -an event that has plagued the test itself was a thriller. andJackson (who scored all but four series. 
The win over the Flyers marked ofNotre Dame's 32 half-time points) "On the road we're just not a good the last home game for the six Notre Dame wore down Dayton's team to date ( 2-7 season slate)," said seniors on this year's Notre Dame man-to-man defense. The Flyers, an Donoher. "I was hoping that this squad. Tri-captains Kelly Tripucka independent club, closed the Irish time of year it would be behind us, 
( 20 points and 1 I rebounds), Or­margin to 9, trailing 32-23 at the half. but apparently it isn't." lando Woolridge ( 18 points and "Tracy Jackson, -it's really im­In Donoher's words, the Flyers seven rebounds), and TracyJackson pressive to see a second guard go to have a chance to make the NCAA ( 20 points and 12 rebounds) put on the boards like that," said Donoher. tournament only if "some miracle an offensive show between them­Six of the 6-6 Jackson's 12 rebounds were to happen Wednesday." Wed­selves that tallied more points than­were on the offensive side in the nesday the Flyers will host the 
the entire Dayton team. Flyer contest. DePaul Blue Demons in Dayton The squad's other three seniors, "Kelly Tripucka reminds me a lot Arena. 
Stan Wilcox, Gilberto Salinas and ofJim Paxson, he's so good without Notre Da~e's next and final walk-on Kevin Hawkins were also the ball," continued Donoher." regular season game is also with Ray able to take a final bow in front ofthe Jim Paxson, a two-time all­
Meyer's Blue Demons. The Irish will home crowd as Head Coach Digger American with the Flyers and now a rest until Tuesday when they begin preparations for the return trip to
Phelps answered the crowd's pleas member of the NBA Portland for the trio. Trailblazers, is the brother of Notre Rosemont's Horizon. Kelly (Master of Disaster) Dame point guard, John. The youn­IRISH ITEMS: Besides the six seniors, all the other members ofthe
Tripucka, who will finish fourth on ger Paxson, playing in front of a 1980-81 Irish team saw action in the
Notre Dame's all-time scoring list, number of hometown relatives and 
was the first regular to take an ova­friends, seemed shaken in the game Dayton contest....Freshman Barry tion. Woolridge, always the crowd against not only his brother's, but his Spencer was especially impressive pleaser, ended his circus against the father's former team. The 6-2 sopho­in his two minutes ofaction, scoring Flyers just seconds later. The 6-9 more went an uncharacteristic 0-four points (two-for-two from the Mansfield, La., native slammed in 
for-three from the line while field) and pulling down a rebound.. three gorilla dunks and blocked as collecting just four points, far below .the Irish now own a 11-6 advantage many shots before leaving the game his 10.7 season average. But the Irish in the Dayton series. _ . Notre Dame with arms held high in triumph. play-maker contributed a commen­shot .592 percent from the field and Jackson, who Phelps compares to dable seven assists and a stellar .571 from the line while limiting the the NBA's Chet Walker, ended his defensive performance. Flyers to a .328 field clip. home career with the same quiet, "Paxson forced Conrad (Kevin) respected dignity that he began with to the opposite side of Kanieski," 
in 1977. said Donoher, explaining his team's The three lauded seniors literally offensive difficulties. destroyed the now 17-9 Flyers, The 6-10 Kanieski, who averages 
leers split -with Wisconsin 
never relinquinishing the lead and 17.4 ppg, finished as the Flyer's high extending the margin to 20 points scorer with 15 points while Richard six times. Montague was Dayton's only other 
BY DAVE DZIEDZIC excellent performances from sin Thus
"We just lost the game in the first double-figure man at 10. goalie Terry Kleisinger. 
Sports Writer everyone. Junior forward Jeff Logan 
ended the playoff hopes. had a hat trick, and fellow classmate 
The Badgers totally outplayed the Notre Dame's hopes for its 11th Jeff Perry added a goal as the Irish 
Irish in Saturday's game. The jumped out to a 4-0 lead. Excellent
staight Western Collegiate Hockey referees called 15 penalties on the
Aragon runsfirst 
Association playoff berth came to an goaltending by sophomore Bob Irish, and the Badgers were able to end this weekend, as the Irish split a McNamara iced the victory. capitalize on the power-play four two-game series with Wisconsin. "That was our best game of the times while taking a 5-0 lead after 
Going into Friday night's contest year," said coach Lefty Smith, two periods. seven 

ND sub-4 mile 
at the ACC, Notre Dame trailed "because we had to win. Everyone All goals were specialtyBy MATT HUFFMAN "I really have to give much of the eigth-place Minnesota-Duluth by put in a super effort. 
goals for the Badgers. Four were Sports Writer credit to John added Aragon. "Pe one point in the WCHA standings. In "Jeff Logan's performance was scored on the power-play, and three was just as much a part ofit as I was. order to qualify for the playoffs, particularly amazing, because he has was
were scored while Wisconsin Chuck Aragon, senior co-captain, He pushed me hard throughout the Notre Dame needed at least one vic­tendinitis in one wrist and has to shorthanded. All-American. NCAA qualifier, Notre race. When I saw he was ahead with tory over Wisconsin, and victories soak the other wrist in ice while he's 
The highlight of the game for the Dame record holder in the half-mile 300 (yards) to go I felt I had to start by North Dakota over Minn.-Duluth. not playing_" Irish was McNamara's goaltending_and mile, and four time varsity kicking." The Irish met the first of these Logan's first two goals came in the 
Bob made 22 saves in the first 
award winner. ran a 3:59.92 in the "This race was the strongest I ,.,.ad criteria Friday with. a 4-2 victory first period. The first, at the 14:2 5 periiod, and 42 in the game.
mile this weekend at the Illini Clas­mark, came when Logan tapped
See TRACK, page 6 over the Badgers. Notre Dame Terry Kleisinger, Wisconsin's 
sic at the University of Illinois in played an outstanding game, getting Kevin Humphreys' rebound past 
freshman goalie, looked sharp while Champaign. Badger goalie (\1arc Behrend. 
making 33 saves. "He ran a beautiful race,"said Logan's second goal, which came 
The main difference in Saturday's Notre Dame head coach Joe Piane. with just 18 seconds left in the game appeared to be Notre Dame's
Kentucky ends LSU
"We knew that he had to run be­period, came while the Irish were lack ofenthusiasm. The Irish looked 
tween 2:00 and 2:02 for his first half shorthanded. Logan stole the puck at flustered and unorganized throug­mile and 3:0 I and 3:02 at the three the Notre Dame blue line, skated all 
hout much of the game, as is quarters mark ifhe was to break four alone into the. Wisconsin zone, and 
evidenced by their failure to take ad­minutes. llis times were 2:01 and fired a wrist over Behrend's left 

win streak, 73-71 
vantage of any of their ten power­
3:0 I. and it ~as then we felt like he LEXINGTON, Ky. (AP)-Dirk Min­Kentucky led by the final score shoulder. play opportunities. was going to do it." niefield scored 1 1 points, and his with 2:18 left after LSU's Howard Perry and Logan each scored in IRISH ITEMS -Friday night's
Aragon wasn't quite as sure, floor leadership and ball-hawking Carter hit a pair offree ~brows. Ke~­the third period, as the Irish took the victory was the first home win since however. ··: really didn't feel like I play helped ninth-ranked Kentucky victory.
tucky ran the clock )down to 'a December 6, 1980 ... Notre Dame 
was going to do it for most of the hold off a second/half charge from minute before Minnlefield com-I McNamara's goaltending was su­finishes at 9-18-1 in the WCHA and race. I felt almost sluggish. When I second-ranked Louisiana State Sun­mitted an offensive fotil to turn t~e perb. "Bobby did a great job for us 13-21-2 overall ... the Irish were a hit the three-quarters mark, though, day as the Wjldcats upset the Tigers ball over. tonight," said Smith. "Goaltending disappointing 4-13-1 at home this I really picked up. 73:71. means so much in hockey. Bobby's season ... Saturday's game was Notre 
"I wasn"t really able to con­Kentucky, in its last game of the Three times in the laSt minute LSU play was the key for us tonight." Dame's final contest ever in the centrate on the ttmes as they were season at Rupp Arena, halted the na­called timeout, and ~twice Carter McNamara made 36 saves in WCHA ... next season, Notre Dame calling them <>ut because I had to tion's longest winning streak at 26 tried to tie the score unsuccessfully. Friday's game. moves to the Central Collegiate worry more about running the games and dealt LSU only its secorr! Carter missed om; shot with 10 But after all this effort, the Fight­Hockey Association, playing against race." loss ofthe season. The Tigers, cha~-­seconds left. Minniefleld rebounded ing Irish woke up on Saturday morn­teams such as Ohio State and Michi­
Aragon had good reason to worry. pions of the Southeastern Con­but stepped on the end line. LSU ing to discover that they were still gan ... Saturday's game was a sellout, john Grqwrek of Georgetown Uni­ference, had not lost since Nov. 29 of called time, and when play resumed, lodged in ninth place due to and Friday's was near capacity ... an versity led the race up until the last last year, when they were beaten by the ball again wound up in Carter's Minnesota-Duluth's 7-3 come-from­estimated 800-1000 obnoxious Wis­300 yards. when Aragon was able to Arkansas in the Great Alaska hands. But his shot with two seconds behind victory over North Dakota consin fans made the trip south for kick by him. Gregorek, a member of Shootout. left was blocked by 7-foot-1 Sam on Friday night. Therefore, the Irish the weekend, and contributed to the 
this year's l'nited States Olympic Minniefield led five Kentucky Bowie. were placed in another must-win loudest weekend of the season ... team, stavn: with Aragon right players in double figures, but it was situation on Saturday night. Wisconsin finishes at 1 7-11-0 in the down to the ""ire, where the Notre his knack for getting to the ball in the Minnit:field was there and Notre Dame's enthusiasm seemed WCHA, good for second place be­Dame star leaned ahead and won by closing minutes that saved the clamped his hands on the ball to give to disappear Saturday night, as the hind Minnesota in the highly com­~even-tenths ofa second. Wildcats' victory. Kentucky the victorv. Irish were shuwut, 7-0, by Wiscon-petitive league. 








