---~----­
Block Party page 4
' ' ' 

VOL. XVI, NO. 52 an indt>pendenr student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1981 
Dirty filter delays space shuttle launch 
CAPE CANAVERAL, fla. (AP) -A 
doggnl tlltcr, ncvt·r refurhisht·d at: 
tcr Columbia's first mtsston in 
spring, shattered a ncar-flawless 
countdown ycstt:rday, grounding 
the ~huttle for two day~ -or longer. 
"\X'c'rc looking at something like Friday. <>r Saturday, or Sunday or ,\1onday," ~aid flight dirt·ctor Nl'il Hutchinson. Bill jones, the astronaut's trainn, said the delay may he long cn<>Ugh that joe Engle 
and Richard Trl!IY would return for rest at home hast· in Houston. The decision to scrub came with liftoff~ I seconds away. 
Eager to make their first tour of space, Engle and Truly climbed in­stead from tht· cockpit, stiff from nearly five hours strapped knees-up in thdr flight couches. They managed a wry smile. 
Tht· technical problem was with two Auxiliary Power Units devices that are crucial to Colum­bia's guidance. Clogged APU t1lters had been untouched since the shuttle landed after its debut flight ir April. NASA's experts thought they didn't nl·ed maintanance. 
The scrub sequence was almost tht· same as April's first launch at­tempt. There the countdown clock stood at nine minutes when a com­puter anomaly caused a scrub. The shuttle lifted off two days later for the first flight of the world's only reusable spaceship. 
Another attempt at Launch II for Columbia cannot be made until Friday since it takes at least 48 hours to unload and reload the ship's half million gallons of liquid oxygen and liquid hydrogen. 
"We still have a need to under­stand the problem," said NASA spokesman Hugh Harris. "At the present time, there has been no determination made as to how long it might take to t1x." 
"The problem" was in two of three Auxiliary Power Units-APlls. Experts said hydrazine fuel leaked into the APU gear boxes and mixed with a lubricant, creating extra-high pressure and forced the scrub. 
In essence, technicians· will do what motorists have to have done to keep their cars going. They'll change the oil and filter, and if necessary tlush out the system. The APUs even resemble a power steering pump. The turbine-driven units generate the mechanical power to a pump that produces pre&surc for the hydraulic system which provides the muscle to swivel the main engines on liftoff and move the wing surfaces for landing. 
"It's going to lake time to get the filters out of the APU's and purge them and clean them and bring them back on line," Hutchinson said in Houston mission control. He said he guessed all would have gone OK if technicians hadn't seen the pressure and launched anyway. 
The major worry for yesterday's launch had been the weather which had been marginal all week. But at the scheduled 7:30 a.m. liftoff time there was no rain, there was little wind, and -though heavy clouds blanketed the sky -there was suffi­cient visibility. 
Forecasters said conditions will deteriorate in coming days. And, al­most as proof, heavy rain pelted the shuttle in early afternoon. 

seconds before liftoff when a mechanical problem was discovered, and the Dat,ises went home disappointed. (APphoto) 
Strip search 


SMC students sue for $140,000 
3By BOB VONDERHEIDE 
StaffReporter 

Seven Saint Mary's students filed a suit in U.S. District Co~rt last week seeking more than $140,000 from the city of South Bend for damages suffered in a strip search of the women following their arrest last January for underage drinking. 
The trial on the suit, however, 
Radical te"orist 

Cop UJaits for woman nemesis 
By MICHAEL BEZDEK 
Associated Press Writer 

WEST TRENTON, New Jersey -Lt. Peter Coughlin 
has worked 26 years for the State Police and says he 
might retire were it not for a woman he is particularly 
ket:n to mt·et. 

Coughlin, "iO, has spent two years trying to find joanne Chesimard, a.k.a. Assata Shakur, New jersey's most wanted fugitive and a suspt·ctcd leader of the Black Liberation Army. 
"I can retire right now, hut I don't want to umil we 
get her," Coughlin said. "It gets to he a personal thing 
after a couple of years." 
<:hesimard 

:;;·i~.~~)ll V~Ct\~a~)~· THuRsD A Y:filli~\@\\~::::~;::::;:::::::::~~ 
~;;~::~~~i~~~;ic;~ Im::;::w:;;:;;w:?'F 0 CUS · 
t ional Institution for Women at Clinton two years ago last Monday. Ikr escape came about a year after establishment of tht· state police Fugitive Unit, which Coughlin heads. 
People who make Coughlin's quarterly "12 Most Wantt·d" list arc considered the most dangerous of somt· HOO NewJersey convicted or suspected criminals on the lam. 
But of them all, Bronx-born Joanne Deborah Byron Chesimard has proven the most elusive. She remains the one Coughlin said ht' "would most definitely like to meet." 
llntil recntly, Coughlin said his "best information" was that Chesimard was somewhere in California. He has maintained for years that she has been waging a small war on police, and evidt:ncc is now mounting to support his claim. 
Scores ofclues have indicated there may be a connec­tion between Chesimard and the recent $1.6 million robbery of a Brink's truck during which two Nyack, N.Y., police officers and a Brink's guard were slain and three members of the radical Weather Underground were apprehended. 
Four suspects in the case arc believed to have ties to the BLA, including Anthony Laborde and Marilyn Buck, both still at large and both believed by authorities to have aided Chesimard's escape. 
Laborde is a co-suspect withjames Dixon York ofLin­den, N.J., in a New York shootout severa months ago during which one policeman was slain and another wounded, Coughlin said. 
York, who was captured and charged with the police shootings shortly after he was added to New Jersey's most wanted list, is also suspected of being one of the five who aided Chesimard's escape Coughlin said. 
Coughlin's search for Chesimard has been made more difficult because while the general public knows little of behind-the-scenes police work, Chesimard knows a great deal. 
While she was in prison, she used the Freedom of Information Act to obtain more than 1,700 pages of FBI documents concerning her case, including details of police investigations. 
Coughlin said the search is also hampered by the net­work ofradicals believed to have aided her flight and hy the fact that one of the suspects at large in the Brink's case has been identified as a "Chesimard look-a-like.'' 
"Ifone-tenth of the reports we get are correct, she's been all over the place in the last couple of years," he said. "They want to makea heroine out ofher." 
But among state troopers, she is no heroine. Indeed, 
See NEMESIS, page 4 
isn't likely to begin until at least next spring, according to the women's at­torney Michael Cotter. 
The complaint states that the women "suffered serious emotional distress, trauma, public humiliation and embarrassment" as a result of the strip search. 
Each woman is demanding $10,000 or more in compensatory damages, more than 510,000 in punitive damages, attorney fees and court costs. 
The women are Brigid Streb, Patricia Brandy, Laura Potts, Colleen 
Rooney, Tricia  Wrenn, Mary  Mul­ 
doon and Eileen Heidkamp.  
Kyle  Woodward  is  the  only  

woman arrested who is not joining the suit. The arrest occured Jan. ~0. 1981 at Corby's Tavern, 1026 Corby Boulevard. The eight Saint Mary's women, then aged 19 and 20, were taken by police to the South Bend Police Department City jail for booking, processing and incarcera­
tion.  During processing,  a  female  
corrections  officer  strip  searched  
the students.  

The complaint says the actions of the police that night "constitute an intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligence, gross negligence under the laws...." 
"I think my rights have been vi­olated," said Heidkamp. "I'd really rather not discuss it." 
None of the other girls contacted by The Observer would comment. 
See SEARCH, page 6 



Women charge that Church descriminates 
By Michael Wilkins 
News Staff 
The role ofwomen in the Church and the changing views on this issue were discussed last night by Sr. Marietta Starric in a lecture given in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. 
Starrie dealt with the differences between the theoretical role of women in the Church and the actual role they play within its structure. She stated that though Vatican II stressed the equality of men and women, the Church does not practice this claim within its own structure. 
Starrie sighted several examples of discrimination against women within the official life of the Church. All women arc laywomen in the offi­cial eyes of the Church by the fact that they can not bt• ordained and therefore can not serve in the Church hierarchy, Starrie said. 
Other examples Starrie cited in-
elude the restrictions placed on 
women on proclaiming the Gospd 
and delivering the homily at Mass. 
Women are not permitted to 
receive more than six sacraments 
and arc allowed to administer only 
the sacrament of baptism. 
Starric feels that women arc 
forced into passive participation in 
the Church and tend to experit•nce 
themselves as lesser in holiness. "To 
the very church into which we were baptized, we arc stepsisters, whose presence and whose views still cause embarrassment to some ofour brothers in Christ," Starrie said. 
Other denominations· have or­dained women into their churches, at least in theory, Starrie said, but even these advancements have not necessarily helped to reduce the sexism within their churches. 
The change from within that has been attempted in many of these 
See WOMEN, page 4 





ews Briefs 

Thursday, November 5, 1981 -page 2 
II\ I he I i!Jsen•er a11d I he lssr" ialer/ l'rr·ss 
South Bend Police said test results from the FBI crime lab may be completed by the end of the week, furthering the investigation into a hit-and-run accident October 12 that injured a visiting Notre Dame graduate student. Captain Thomas Gargis ofthe South Bend police traffic division said parts of the bicycle ridden by the student and sections ofa vehicle impounded in connection with the accident an: being analyzed at the FBI lab in comparison testing. Gargis said results of the tests are expected "in the near future, maybe yet this week." Catherine Campbell, a 25-year-old graduate student from England, suffered a broken leg and head injuries when struck by the hit-and-run vehicle as she rode her bicycle in the SOO block of N. Eddy. She remains in St. Joseph's Medical Center in poor condition, and has not regained consciousness. -The Observer 

Most people with clogged heart arteries can be treated suc­cessfully with medicine and do not need coronary bypass surgery, an operation now performed on 110,000 Americansa year, a study con­cludes. The docwrs found that the death rate among victims ofcoro­nary artery disease who were treated almost exclusively with medicine was 1.4 percent a year over five years. "The implications arc profound, because basically, it says that medical treatment can alford a remarkable improvement in prognosis without the need for cardiac surgery," said Dr. Bernard Lown, who din:cted the study. Bypass surgery has become an increasingly common treatment for people whose heart arteries are narrowed by fatty deposits, even when this condition does not cause chest pain or other outward signs ofill health. Other studies have produced conflicting figures on whether the operation prolongs life. "Medical treatment at the present time reduces mortality lO a remarkably low level," Lown said in an interview. "This cannot be improved on by any type of surgical intervention." -AP 
Sixpersonshave been named to the Board ofDirectors of the national Alumnae Association of Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, Indiana. The new Alumnae Association board members from South Bend are Sister Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. and Patricia Cain Murray. A 1963 graduate of Saint Mary's, Sister Mary Louise is cur­rently an assistant professor of French at Saint Mary's as well as the French Coordinator for the Depatment of Modern Languages. In 
1979, Sister Mary Louise was acting Assistant to the President at Saint Mary's College. Sr. Mary Louise who has authored numerous publications and papers, is a member of the Modern Languages As­sociation and the American Association of Teachers of French. Patricia Cain Murray has been active in a number of school, parish. and civic programs including PTA and library volunteer, C CD teac­her, Pre-Cana volunteer and Board of Education member for her parish. She is also a member ofthe St. Joseph County Lawyers' Wives and Indiana State Bar Auxiliary; seven-year volunteer with the men­tally retarted and Board member of the Reins of Life. a therapeutic horesback-riding program for the handicapped. -The Observer 
The Tennessee-Tomhigbee Waterway. a $2-billion to $.)-billion ditch through Alabama and Mississippi that would be larger and costlier than the Panama Canal, narrowly escaped the Senate's budget knife yesterday. By rejecting, 48 to 46, an amendment to eliminate money for the project in the current fiscal year, senators agreed to keep construction on the nation's big­gest water project on schedule. Approval came over objections by critics that it could not be justified in the face ofsharp cuts in other, more vital domestic programs. Backers said the canal, once com­pleted, would give a big economic boost to states to the east of the Mississippi River by providing an important alternative commercial route for coal and other products now moved by rail or down the Mississippi. -AP 
A Canadian charitable group has raised 5800,000 for an Indian leper colony run by Mother Teresa, the Roman Catholic missionary who won the 1979 Nobel Peace Prize. The Mother Teresa Habitat Institute of Alberta is making final ar­rangements to deliver the money after four years of fund-raising, institute chairman Paul Chamberland said. -AP 
Denmark has expelleda Soviet diplomat for alleged espionage activities, Foreign Ministry sources said yesterday Soviet Embassy spokesman Alexandre Tchikhira confirmed that Second Secretary Vladimir Merkoulov was declared persona non grata last week but said his government feels the expulsion was unjustified. "As our ambassador told the Min.istry of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Merkoulov did nothing against Danish law," Tchikhira said. He refused to comment on Danish allegations that Merkoulov was an agent of the KGB, the Soviet secret police. The ministry also refused official comment, but a source there who asked not to be identified said Merkoulov "would not have been declared perona non grata if he had been behaving as he should." -AP 
Chance of showers today and tonight. High today around 60. Low tonight in the upper 30s. Mostly cloudy and colder tomorrow. High in the upper 40s. Chance of showers 30 percent both today and tonight. -AP 


CANCER INVESTIGATIONS: Cancer victim Christie Smith, 13, ofDundalk, Md., gives testimony before the Senate Labor and 

ARMS TALKS OVER: 
President RonaldReagan and King Hussein I ofjordan emerge from the White House Tuesday after they con­cluded their talks over a U.S. jordan arms deal. 
AP 
Photo 



File 

HYATT WALKWAY TESTS: 
Workmen cut specimens of the wreckagefrom the Kansas City Hyatt Regency walkways which collapsed last july. The National Bureau of Standards will conduct tests to determine the cause of collapse which resulted in the deaths of 113 people. 

f--The_Ohseryer_ 
Design Editor....................... Monica Gugk 
Design Assistants .............. Randy Rentncr 
Mike McCaughey Typeseller ....................................... Mike Jans News Editor................................... Kelli Flint Copy Editor....... .... Tom Melshdmer 
Paula Groves 
Sports Copy Editor.. ..........Skip Desjardin T}'}Jist... .. ....Jeanine Hynes Systems Control ................... Bruct' Oakley 
ND Day Editor .......................... Dave Grott' 
Photographer. ....,... Daw Guffey Guest Appearances..............Suzanne, Tim John, Mark Dean the star 
.\1ike without free books 
Griff with Darby Commodore H.A. Von Plick 
Human Resources subcommittee on investiga­tions and general oversight on Capitol Hill Tues­day. The committee is investigating the actions of the National Cancer Institute. 

SON FOUND: 
Lillian Barnes kneels over the cas­ket of her son Pvt. Kenneth Barnes, whose picture stands nearby. Barnes, who had been missing from his post at Fort Gordon, Ga., since November 1972, was returned to his Amherst, Oh., home after his body was found in afalse~y markedgrave. 

do you have any questions about law school? calf1n to the ND week in review 10:30-11:00 
WSND 6401 Dean Waddick will field any quest:lons. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 


==Ihe=ObserYer.== 
Editor-in-Chief............................. .)ohn McGrath SMC News Editor............. ...Cathy Domanico 
. Box Q, Notre Dame, iN 46556 

Executive News Editor.........................Kelli Flint Photo Editor......................... ..............john Macor
The Observer is an independenr newspaper published by rhe srudem" of rhe 
News Editor ..................................Tim Vercellotti
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College lr doe-.. nor nece-..-.anh 
News Editor.............................David Rickabaugh Business J1anager .........................Rich Coppola
reflect the policies of the administration of either insrirurion. The new" 1s reponed 
Sports Editor ...............................\1ichael Ortman Controller............................................ .)oe :\1ulflur
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Ediwrials represent rhe opinion of a 
Editorials Editor.......................Anthony Walton Advertising .Wanager ....................... Chris Owen
majority of the Editorial Board. Commenraries, opinions, and letters are the view-. Features Editor .........................Gregory Swiercz Production Manager....................\1ichael Monk
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of rhe communi!\. and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged SMC Executiue Editor...........:\1ary Agnes Carey Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan 
·--_,_____·----------------------------..------------------·-· .. _____ -­
The Observer 
Professional service? 

Price discusses adn1inistrations 
ByBILLKOLB 
'itaffReportf!r 
Prok·ssor Don K. Price of Harvard 
l'mvcrsity addresst·d tht· question 
.. b government st.·rvicc a profc:s­
~ion'" in a lecture: Tuesday at Cen­
tury Ct·ntc:r. A briefpanel tliscussion 
t<>llowed. 
!laving st·rvt.·d both as Dean of llarvard's Kcnnt·dy School of <iovernmcnt from 19'iH-1977 and as a consultant on Public Administra­tion to Presidents Roosevelt, Eisen­hower, Kt·nnedy and johnson, Price said ht· bdil-vc:s that Public Ad­ministration is indeed a profession. But he: also denied vigorously thm govcrnrnt·nt service: "in a complete senst·" is as much a profession as arc 
•1edkinc. engineering and law. 
Tht•st' spedalizcd professions " muscle in on" the: territory of gt·neral government service:, for it lacks its own exclusive: domain. The "specialists" attempt to avoid in­volvement in value: issues or politi­cal contlicts that arc not explainable in terms oftht.'ir particuar expertise. But having moved into the higher ranks of government, they become general administrators, "often with­out realizing that they have: done: so." 
Price: said that government offi­cials who have no special area ofex­pertise: also lack the: specialist's organizational "measure of self­govc:rnmc:nt, the right as a separate entity in society to regulate: its own ~ffair' and dd'int• its own standard• " This lack, he: said, is a phenomenon peculiar to Amnican history. 

According to Price:, 19th century moral reformists discouraged policy-making as part ofthe duties of general administration, treating it merely as an ability to carry out managerial duties. It was therefore: not until World War II, with the: crt.·ation of the American Society for Public Administration. that the: generalists had their own profes­sional society. But their work still did not bear directly on substantive­ly shaping policy. 
Price: maintained that the f()rces of American hi~ tory also resulted in the: specialists gaining ascendancy over the: generalists in policy-formulating government service. 
After World War II, advancements in science and technology resulted in an establishment of developmen­tal and regulatory institutions that required specialized expertise:. The: result was what Price: called a "vertical dimension of professional responsibility," the: duty of the specialized administrator being to formulate: policy as well as to carry it out efficiently. 
Price said that today, this vertical dimension has resulted in a pluralis­tic tug-of-war between governmen­tal agencies. He said that a horizontal dimension· of responsibility is needed that combines intellectual competence with "an obligation to a general public interest." 
Price concluded. stating "a con­cern for good administration re-

Ex-helicopter pilot holds six hostages 
MUNCIE, Ind. ( AP) -A "frustrated 
and angry" ex-helicopter pilot in 
Vietnam took six newspaper 
employees hostage at gunpoint on 
tht· ~econd anniversary of the 
seizing of the Amcri<:an hostages in 
Iran, saying his fellow soldiers never 
got tht· media attention they 
de-;ervt·d. 
No one was hurt and no reporters 
or editors were: involved in the inci­
dent at :\1uncic: Newspapers Inc., 

publbhers of the morning Muncie Star and the afternoon Muncie Hve­llillK Press. jay Stader, _U, of Muncie, who said ht· flew a helicopter during the Vit-tnam \Var. \\'as arrt·stnl on a t·hargc of criminal confinmt:nt and was initially held at the Delaware County Jail on a S40.000 bond. ~tadcr was arraigned at :\:30 p.m. EST but did not cntt·r a plea. Bond was then reduced to $20,000 and ar­raignment date was set. 
lie was interviewed in Jail yester­day 'afternoon by an oftkial of thc 
Ddaware County Mental Health lkpartmc:nt. 
One ofStader's early demands was to talk with news anchorman Cameron Harper of Indianapolis tc:levision station WTHR. Although Harper was at the jail yesterday af­tt-rnoon, Sheriff Gary Carmichacl said Stader "doesn't want to bt· bot­hen·d" with an interview. 
The hostages included a security guard, one mail room worker and four newspaper carriers. 
The: incident began about ~ a.m. and was ovt·r less than an hour later when Stader,armed with a doubll-­barrt·kd shotgun, was talkt·d into ~urrendering hy tht.· hostages. He remaint·d in the building, however, until hc was convinced to kavc: by Lt. Charles Hinson, chief hostage nt·gotiator for the Muncie Police Ikpartment. 
"He was frustrated and angry that 
See HOSTAGES, page 6 

~~~~,....oo~..~o~...ao~..Mo~...o.. 
ND-SMC SKIERS meetings tonite little theatre 
7:00 trip to winter park,Colo. jan 2-10 
8:00 ski team organizational meeting 

1111'-1 .\~.._ .. II Ill" '-llll'-
Thursdav. November 5 
tnvaalon of the Body Snatcher• Allied Artists 
1956 (80 min) Kevrn McCarthy and Dana Wynter star in Don Sregel's scrence trclton allegory of 1950's tndivtduality vs. the Pod 

1:. ~ II "l'-11 " •• .\II ... (;I -.c U I l:l' U t· •·lr· 1~!1)1(;1-t1. J,) 
f. ""'---··.\IIf·"'-\.. ll·l,\111 



--· --"· 

quires a concern for the: content of 
policies, and indeed political author­
ity needs the: support ofa career sys­
tem ofprofessional generalists if it is 
to enforce: its policies and protect a 
system of true constitutional 
responsibility. Toward that end, we 
in America evidently still have a lot 
to learn." 
Following Price's lc:cture. a panel discussed•current issues in public administration. Panelists were Professor Peri Arnold; Professor Tom Thorson of Indiana University at South Bend; Mr. Elroy Kdsenbc:rg, South Bend Director of CETA; and Price. 
A graduate of Vanderbilt Univer­sity and a Rhodes Scholar, Price: cur­rently is Weatherhead Professor of Public Management emeritus at Har­vard University. 
His lecture is part of a series of lectures on American professions sponsored by the: Notre: Dame: Department of History. 


No charges filed 

Parish finds missing painting 
By MIKE LEPRE 
News Staff 
A painting reported missing from a corridor of Saint Hedwig's Hall in South Bend after two Saint Mary's functions Friday was recovered Monday evening ·on the rectory grounds. 
The painting, which depicts a dark section of woods, disappeared sometime after the: conclusion of two separate functions involving students from Saint Mary's LeMans and Holy Cross halls. Security checks of the church's property made: throughout the: evening raised speculation that the paiming had been stolen in the confusion of the partygoc:rs leaving. 
The members from the Le,\1ans 

gathering were: not implicated in the incident Adoor connecting the: Holy Cross party room to the: corridor contain­ing the: painting was Ic:ft opt~n throughout ti:Jc: evening. while: a similar door leading to the leMans party had been locked. For this reason the responsibility for thc mis­sing painting had been placed upon the people: from Holy Cross Hall. Erin Diamond, a rc:sidem of Holy Cross and sponsor of the get­together was hdd liable f(>r the painting's disappearance. "Jking a private party," sht· explained,"the person who ran it must be held responsible: for the painting." St. Hedwig's had given Diamond an in­definite length of time to attempt t'o locate: the painting before they 
Homer Lautrec Chagall Seurat Wyeth Van Gogh 
would consider pressing charges against her. 
In addition, Saint Hedwig's decided not to investigate the ind­dent, but rather to leave it to Diamond. In Diamond's words, the 
chun:h asked her "to come up with the painting." 
Early Monday evening, three days after the theft, the picture was found. l'r. Matt, of Saint lkdwig's, spotted the painting ncar a wall outsitk the church. 
While it had bn·n raining that eve­ning, no rcpcirtnl tlamagc had bt-en done 10 tht· painting. 
Plan~ t()r rt·storing tht• painting ro its original location have been made, and charges will not bt· pressed againM till" group, according to an employn· ofSaint lktlwig's. 
Gauguin Klee 

ART PRINT SALE 
OVER 100 


PERFECT 
MASTER ARTISTS 
WALL DECORATIONS 
MATTING 
GREAT GIFTS 
AVAILABLE 
I;. : .~ ~ 

ANY 3-ONLY $7! 
Rembra r~dt Cezanne~ 


LaFortune Student Center 9 AM-4 PM 

The Observer Thursday, November 5, 1981 -page 4 
With neighborhood 


Seniors to hold Block Party 


By TOM SHAUGHNESSY 
News Staff 
The Senior class, along with employees of the Senior-Alumni Club, will run friday's Block Party with the Northeast neighborhood, according to Dean ofStudentsjames Roemer. 
"It is a Senior class party, so it is appropriate that they run it," he said. 
Seniors will cook all of the food, and a crew of thiny Senior Bar employees will serve the beer. The dining halls had been considered to prepare the food, hut this idea was rejected in favor of a "hospitable gesture" on the part of the seniors, 
.tid Dean Roe.mer. 
The ACC has been granted a license to serve beer, and only seniors will be admitted. The seniors will be required to present their stu­dent identification cards. and only those who are 21 will be served beer. All seniors will be allowed into the Block Party, however. Since there will be underaged people at the Block Party, both students and neighborhood children, the "experienced people from a licensed bar" are needed, explained Roemer. 
A phone committee of 40 people has contacted some 140\l households in the Northeast com­munity, and about 2000 people arc expected to turn out for the Block Party. The neighborhood is also invited to the pep rally. 
"This event is an alternative to the Death March," Roemer said. Corby's, Irish Country, Bridget McGuire's, and The Commons have all agreed to close between the hours of6 and 8p.m., as a "gesture of good will toward the community and to prevent an impromptu Death March after the Block Party," stated Dean Roemer. 
ln the past, the Death March has caused "some strain with the neigh· bors," and the Block Party is an op­portunity to ''shake. hands with the community," said the Dean of Stu­dents. 
Discjockey Wendell Welsch prepares to spin his next tune in the WSND AM studios. (Photo by David Guffey) 
• • • Wotnen 

continuedfrom paRe 1 
Protestant chun:itcs as well as with­in the Roman Catholic Church does not work because of tht· prcser­vationism felt from tht· inside of these structures, Starrie stated. 
''The recent tendency is that the challenge to restructure is liable to he suppressed by the structure ibelf as much as possible."Stark em­phasized. 
Women respond in a variety of 
ways when confronted with thc idea 
ofhaving women seek a more visible 
role within the Church. On the 
whok, they see thcm~clvcs repre­
sentative. 
Some women sec no significance in the women's movement within the Church. Some sec hope and op­timism for the futun: of women within the Church, coJlVinccd ofthe values women would have in a more oflkial role. There arc even a num­bl·r of women who do not par­ticipate actively in the church or leave it entirely because ofthdr lack 
of respect for thdr role. 
Starric feels that women need to call the Church to be truly Christian. This can be done, she says. by setting a model to it. Thi~ model would have to recognize the gifts and diversities of women and speak honestly and clearly about them with tht: hierarchy. 

continuedfrom page 1 
no one is more feared than Chesimard. Coughlin said he sees reminders of that fear every day-a compelling example being the of­ficer who survived the turnpikt: shootout with Chesimard. 
Working a desk job now, he is still shaken by what began as a routine check on a suspicious vehicle and ended in a bloody gun battk with Chesimard. 'lvho was wounded. and a suspected member of the Black l'antht·rs. who was slain. 
Tht· officer -who asked that his name, while a matter of public record, not be brought to public at· tention again -rdu~es to discus~ anything rdating to Joanne Chcsimard. 
"I have a wit(: and a chilli. Please," ht· said. 
Although state troopers are forever on the lookout for Che~imard, much of 1hc investiga­tion is lt:ft to Coughlin, who spends his days around the National Crime 

BARCLAY'S FRESH APPROACH: 
FILL UP 
YOUR 


FAMILY 


• • • Nemesis 
Information Center computer and by the phone. 
He has learned everything he can about her; now and then he even curls up with "Assata Speaks," a biog­raphy by a radical sympathizer who portrayed Chcsimard as an "African gem" who was "railroaded" by au­thorities. ' 
A just-thc-facts type of cop, Coughlin makes few personal asides about the case, although he said he thinks the first mistake was to serid Chesimard to a medium security prison like Clinton. She had already ~tunned authorities by managing to conceive a child. now living with relatives, while she was in a holding cell in Middlesex County awaiting trial. · 
When he started the Fugitive Unit, Coughlin cleared state police files of about 200 names of people who had been captured or released or who had died since they were listed. Sinu: then, 16 of the first 27 Cough­lin put on his most wanted list have been apprehended. 
"There's always an opening," Coughlin said. 
Still, Coughlin doesn't like the dis­tinction of being in the only state where the most wanted of the most wanted has been at large for two years. 
"I guess it's human nature. I guess most cops would like to arrest some­body that bad. Whatever else we're working on. she's always No. I." he said. 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS publiShed Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods. The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col­lege Subscnpttons may be purchased· for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer. P.O Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associ2'ted Press All reproduction nghts are reserved. 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
NAVY RECRUITING 
If you desire financial assistance, scholarship, or guaranteed job opportunities upon graduation; then you should enter 
12-13 NOVEMBER 
as an important date in your calendar 
That is the day we are providing info 
and interviews in all areas of: 
·AVIATION 
·ENGINEERING 

·PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT 
at Notre Dame. Salaries start from $16,000 increasing to $27,500--$40,000 in 4 years. Openings also available in: 
·Materials management 
·Business administration 
·Nuclear engineering 
·Doctors 
·Nurses 
·Lawyers 
i 

For more info or appointment, for 
interview call 317-269-6197 or 
1-800-382-9404, ext. 6197 
------·-----------------·-----·---·----­
The Observer 



Congress repels Arab satellite sale proposal 
Sen. John Glenn, D-Ohio, a com­
WASIIIN<;TON ( AP) -Stung by a mittee member, said Tuesday the
burst of congressional criticism, the ncw sale proposal "came to us cold
administration yesterday withdrew with no advance notice, no consulta­
a plan to sell communications tion whatsoever."
satellite l'quipment to an Arab con­Coming on the heels of the
sortium that includes Libya and the struggle over selling A WACS radar
Pakstine Liberation Organization. planes to Saudi Arabia, Glenn said
llowever. Secrl'tary of State the administration's handling of the
administration may resubmit the credibility."
plan. "We are withdrawing this llnder the terms of the proposed
proposal until we can study the issue sale, Ford Aerospace and Com­

funhn and con~ult," he told the munications Corp. would design,
Senate Foreign Relations Commit­test and deliver certain unspecified
tn·. satellite components to Aerospatialc
"Next time we'll try to do the homework," said a department offi­de France for use in the Arab-Sat cial who asked not to be quoted by 
regional satellite communications 
system. The proposed system involves 
name. 

A statement issued by the State lkpartment said: "wc arc aware of two working satellites and one congressional concerns regarding 
spare. Susan Frutkin, director of public
the proposed sale of commercial affairs for Ford Motor Co., parent
communication satellites to the company of Ford Aerospace, said
Arab Telecommunications Satellite Organization (Arab-Sat). In 
such systems have commercial uses including telephone, telex and

deference to these concerns we arc television transmission.
withdrawing the case for further It is understood plans exist to
review and consultations." launch the Arab medium-size com­
The proposed sale drew little at­munications satellites at National 

SMC College Bowl continues
tention when notice of it was filed Aerospace and Aeronautics Ad­
Oct. 30 under the Arms Export Con­ministration facilities at Cape
trol Act. 

Canaveral, Fla., the only satellite ByJULIANNEJONES comprise the final round; previous According to Schulte, coordinat­
But the issue bubbled to the 

launching facilities now available. News Staff matches were held on Oct. 29, and ing the annual event for a second
surface Tuesday when Defense Details on timing ofsuch a launch Nov. I. year, personal competitiveness is
Secretary Caspar W. Weinberger were not immediately available. The final round of matches of the Following Sunday's games, an not a main objective of the players.
was asked about the sale by the Saint Mary's Intramural College "All-Star" team will be chosen from "The girls play for the fun of it," she
Foreign Relations Committee and The Arab satellites are said to be Bowl Tournament will be played the best players among all participat· explained. "They enjoy playing the
replied that he was not aware ofit. similar to those already built for this Sunday at Carrolt Hall,with the ing. This "All-Star" team will hold games and playing against each
Weinberger noted that many of Canada and Indonesia and to those team that wins the most games in a practice matches with faculty teams other."
the nations in the consortium were 

being planned and built for India, six-game series being declared the in preparation for participation in Due to an extensive publicity run,
U.S. allies, hut said he would like to Brazil and other countrie~. winner of the tourney. the regional competition. Winners the College Bowl Tournament has
check on military implications ofthe By law, a license for the com­College Bowl is a nationally of the regional tournament advance found support on the Saint Mary'ssatellite. 

played question and answer game
munications system sale would have to national play. campus.
The State Department official said 
based on general knowledge.
gone through unless vetoed by bothit was "amazing" Weinberger was ig­
During a match, two teams offour
houses ofCongress within 30 dav~norant of the proposed sale. 
players each vie to answer questions 

correctly. : call a halt to the nuclear arms race! : 
Questions are drawn from a 

• To improve nalional and inl...rnalional securif)·, lhe •
variety of subjects ranging from


President Reagan • • 
music to politics. General • llnited Stales and the Soviet Union should sloo • knowledge and a quick recall offacts • the nuclear anns race. Specificall:'f, they should adopt a • are prime requisites for play. • mutual freeze on the testin_g, prod~ction and •rejects tax proposal Mary Anne O'Donnell, Director of • deplo)·menl of nuclear wrapons and of missiles and • Student Affairs at Saint Mary's and 
• new aircraft desi~ned primarily to deliver nuclear •
WASHINGTON (AP)-By reject­revenue increases to offset a sizeable 
the Regional Coordinator ofCollege 

• wrapons. I hiS IS an essential, "erifiable firsl step toward •
ing a proposal of his budget director part of the tax cut approved by Bowl, and Lisa Schulte, Regina Hall and a key Senate Republican to raise Congress during the summer. The Director, coordinate the campus : lessenin~ the risk of nuclear war and reducing : up to SHO billion in new taxes over new law reduces business and in­
tournament. 

• rhe nudear arst'nals. •
thl· next three years, President dividual taxes by S2HO billion ­Reagan has virtually abandoned his through I984. 
. .
Approximately thirty women, or­

ganized into seven teams, are in­• We support the Call To Halt The Nuclear Arms Race: • promise to balance the govern­Stockman, projecting a worsening volved in the competition. Each e Robert J Hohl John DardiS • ment's books by 19H4. e V1nnie Wh1te Tom Brady Br. David Baltnmc. C.S.C. •
team plays a total of six games in an
deficit outlook, pcrsauded the presi­

• Judith Anne Beattie. C S.C. Kathy McGarvey Carl Popkey e
elimination-style tournament. The

Administration sources said tes­dent to ask Congress in September • Veronica R. Dostal Bndget K. Lowry Richard C Dam berg e tcrday the president told his for $22 billion in tax increases and eight. games to be played on Sunday • Thomas Fischer Tom Gaughan Peter M Crowe • Elizabeth Klaus J1m Fenstermaker. C S.C Paul Caruso 
economic advisers that he opposes Sl3 billion in ddense cuts as part of 

• Martha J1menez Barry Tharp Br Bill Mewes. C.S.C •
major new tax increases even if the a revised package of S I I 5 billion in 

e Mary Ann Fenw1ck R1ta Kopczynski Mary Rose Gallagher • alternative is a red-ink budget in the savings needed to balance the 
e Geoff Parker Peter W. Carter Bob lnfanger • tlnal year of his current term. Those budget by 19H4. e John P Revord Kevin L. Wrlhams Liz Helhnghausen e same advisers concede a dctkit is in­But as the projected deficit con­• Dem.ocrahc Soc1ahst Orgamz1ng Commtttee-ND/SMC Lows Gregory Kosse e 
Jack F Vogel Justrce and Peace Center e
evitable without new revenues to tinued to grow, Stockman has been 

• Martha Vazquez close a widening gap wrought by lobbying tiJr ~gnificantly higher tax • Commumty for the International Lay Apostolate (GILA) • recession. increases, a position opposed by • Holy Cross lnterprovmce Just1ce & Peace Group • 
Regan and otherTreasuryofficials.
lnstl·ad, !<eagan will conunuc to 


continues through tomorrow so they have plenty oftime to make up their minds. (Photo by David Guffey) 
pressure Congress for deep spend­ing cuts to detlate a deficit that could balloon to a;, much as S90 billion in 19H2 and Sl SO billion by 19H.j with­out further budget savings, accord­ing to the sources, who did not want to IK identitkd by name. 

The president'~ economic ad­visers have begun to admit in recent weeks that their original plan for a record boost in dd'ense ~pending, a record cut in taxes and a balanced budget -all by I0H..f -will no lon­glT succeed because of the.: lktl·riorating economy. But the ad­visl·rs have.: been at odds over what dements of the program should be scaled hack. 
Reagan's decision to risk con­tinued budget dctkits marks a vic­tory lilr Trt·asury Secretary Donald 
T. Regan and a ddeat for budget dirl-ctor David A. Stockman. 
Regan has bel·n the.: administra­tion's lc.:ading opponent of sharp, new tax irKrl·asc~. while Stockman has been arguing that a balanced budget can no longer be.: achieved unlc.:ss thl· prl·sident seeks new 

~--------------------------------------­
ND/SMC Student Players Presents: 
THE ODD COUPLE 
2nd Floor LaFortune November 6,7,13,14, 1981 Bpm Admission $2.00 
= 9:oo rW\=
A_NJ:f~ 
MCH l'l E'.ciVe£ Wll..Ol Hq 

BALL~ "'~''" Go,· "m. <?A.:,c. '>-11 
~;l.D. 
t t.__• .J• r:P,\ · 



The Observer Thursday, November 5, 1981 -page 6 
Communist, Solidarity 



Polish leaders conduct talks 

WARSAW, Poland (AP) Poland's three most powerful leaders met for more than two hours yesterday in a session thin paved the way for new joint talks' that could lead to a greater role for the church and Solidarity in solving the nation's crises, the state news agency said. 
Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski, who is Poland's Communist Party chief, prime minister and defense minis­ter, Lech Walesa, head of the inde­pendent union Solidarity, and Archbishop jozef Glemp, Poland's 
• • . Hostages 
continuedfrom page 3 
the media had been giving attention to the Iranian hostages and not to returned Vietnam veterans," Hittson said. "He feels like the news media have turned their backs on Vietnam vets.." 
Larry Shores, editor of the Star, said "I have no information that his 
gripe is against us. His gripe may be a
Sr. Marietta Starrie lectured in the Hayes-Healy auditorium last 

general gripe against the way the
night about "Women in the Church". (Photo by David Guffey) 
media has handled Vietnam veterans. This is probably a very dif­ficult period for Vietnam veterans now that we're going through this again." He referred to the anniver­

ctl't? fu11 

sary stories on the seizing of the 
(AI,(IIrlr:tl<t:: li.LI.l' ltt •••) American embassy. 
"I think we have been very good in our coverage of veterans," Shores
The_Ohs.etv:er_ 

said. He said the papers have run lis­

Is looking for design assistants 

tings ofwhen veterans organizations meet, plus several page one stories on attempts by Vietnam veterans to form veterans' organizations.
~~ ~l *Late nirltt work 
!')1f~ -~ :((~ *Paid positions 


Class of '82 
', / ""} (If you ,~alify)
YJ '-~ ~ 


stresses
----··----._ -/ / 
J

* 1 Night weekly 'seniors only ' 
The Senior Class would like to
Call Mike 8661 clarify that the Block Party 
sponsored by the Class of 82 is only for seniors. The Block Party will be held on Friday from 3 to 6 p.m. in the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Roman Catholic primate, met at a government guest house within sight ofthe Soviet Embassy. 
The Polish news agency PAP said the three leaders discussed Poland's current crisis situation and the "possibilities of creating a front of national understanding, a per­manent platform of dialogue and consultation of political and social forces on the ground of constitu­tional principles." 
The agency said the meeting was "considered to be useful and at the same time preparatory for further essential consultations." 
Neither Walesa nor Glemp would comment as they left the locked iron gates of the heavily guarded guest house next door to the Belvedere Palace, residence of Polish head of state Henrykjablonski. 
janizelski was not seen departing 
the conference, the first of its kind 
since labor unrest in August 1980 
launched Solidarity, the only inde­
continuedfrom page 1 
Cotter also declined last night to 
comment on the trial. 
The suit states that the women's rights under the Fourth, Fifth and Fourteenth Constitutional Amend­.ments, and a federal law have been violated. The police actions, the complaint states, resulted "from the negligent and ineffective training by supervisory officials and training of­ficers of the South Bend Police Department regarding the Constitu­
tional rights...." 
Last spring, the city prosecutor 
dismissed the charges on the 
women, who all pleaded not guilty, 
after they agreed to I 0 hours ofcom­
munity service each. It was unclear 
then whether the women would sue 
the city for the strip search. 
The city maintained that the 
search was within the constitution· 
even though City Attorney Richard 
Hill admitted February that the 
search was not warranted. 
"It was our position then that we have no liability," said Hill. "That is still our postion." Hill refused yes­terday to comment further on the suit. 
An internal investigation follow-
pendent labor federation in the Soviet bloc. 
Before the meeting the Com­munist Party lashed out at what it called "suicide" strikes leading the nation to "economic collapse", and Walesa warned that the Poles would govern themselves if their demands were ignored. 
Hours before the conference, Walesa declared: 
"we'll meet, all three of us, and that will decide in which direction we go. If I win this, I've won every­thing. Either the general will do what he can to understand those he governs, or he won't understand them and then we will have to govern ourselves." 
Walesa spoke to Solidarity's 107­member Country Commission, the union's national leadership ex­ecutive, which was holding its own meeting in the Baltic port ofGdansk. He then left for Warsaw. 

• • • Search 
ing the strip search analyzed the ac­tions of the female corrections officer. The Board of Public Safety accepted a report of the investiga­tion on Feb. I 7. 
The report indicated that strip searches are only necessary for prisoners suspected of concealing weapons, contraband or evidence. 
The report, however, defended a strip search as legal anytime. 
According to the Feb. 5 Observer, the female officer performing the search of the women did not realize the department's "unwritten" policy deeming "pat-down" searches as suf­ficient for misdemeanor suspects. 
Lottery 
•


wtnner announced 
The winner of the Student Union student lottery to eat dinner with Senator George McGovern is sopho­more Andy Shafer, of Flanner Hall. 



Alumni••rlllll~ 
Badil ...,,,,, 
Holy Cross.........
~.........L¥AA&If-U.I.It.y.U.I.............I.Ap.I.A.... 


How~!!~::r:r::r:t:j_l_U 
Keerat 


Lewis Lyons Morrissey 
Panrbom Pasquerilla E. Pasquerilla W. 
St Edwns 
Sam 
Statford Walsh 



Zalln 



Pat Corraleshas signed a two-year contract to manage the Philadelphia Phillies, a team spokesman said today. Corrales, a for­mer manager of the Texas Rangers, had been a coach under former manager Dallas Green, who resigned recently to become general manager of the Chicago Cubs. Bill Giles, who put together a group that bought the Phillies last week for $30.1 75 million, spoke with Corrales and offerred the job Tuesday night. -AP 
Bobby Knight and Digger Phelps will 
speak to Notre Dame students, discuss basketball and take questions in a benefit for The Observer Landon Tumer Fund. Turner, the Hoosiers' star forward, was left paralyzed by an auto accident in July. The two coaches will be in the Engineering Auditorium Monday, November 9 at I0 p.m. Donations for the fund are always welcome. Make checks payable to The Observer-Landon Turner Fund P.O. BoJto Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 -The Observer 
The Notre Dame water polo club will hold 
a team meeting tonight at 7:00 in the Caron Court. All team members must attend, as the spring season and Georgia Tech tailgater will be discussed. For more information call Pat McDivitt at 381 5. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC ski racing team will hold an or­
ganizational meeting tonight at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. All ND-SMC students who wish to race this year, including any new members, must be present. A presentation will be made concerning the trip to Colorado at the end of Christmas break. Anyone interested but not able to attend the meeting should call one ofthe captains -Barry Tharp ( 1 5 70 ), Nancy Sheft ( 41-4996) or Sue 
Hull ( 1674)-sometime this week for more information. -The Obsen1er · 
Ken Griffey becamt" a mt"mber of the New York Yankees yesterday after he was traded by the Cincinnati Reds. In exchange for Griffey, a ..307 lifetime hitter, the Reds received minor-league pitcher Hrian Ryder and a player to be named later. Griffey reported­ly has agreed to a multi-year contract with the Yankees. He had been eligible: to become a free agent at the end of the 1981 season. 
Associated Press 
Football equipment exchange for interhall 
football players will now be by appointment only. Contact the NVA office ( C-2 ACC, 6100 ). -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Turkey Trot will take place on Monday, November 2.3 at 4 p.m. The trot will be run over a thrt·e­mik course, and is open to everyone in the Saint Mary's community. First, sn·ond, and third place prizes will be awarded in the following categories: I ) studt"nts; 2) male staff and faculty; 3) female staff and faculty. Entrants may rt"gister by bringing the $1 fee to the Angela Athletic Facility between Nov. 11 and Nov. 20. If you have any yues­tions, contact Mr. Dillon at 4182 ( SMC ). -The Observer 
Three lawyerS from New York City will be panelists for a Sports and Entertainment Law Forum to be hdd at Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Education tomorrow. The morning session will run from I 0 a.m. to 12 noon, and the afternoon session from 2-4 
p.m. Tht· three panelists will be Seymour Peyser, Richard Zahnd and Sidney Hluming, all of whom are specialists in this expanding field of law. Peyser has served as vice-president of and general council to United Artists Corporation. Zahnd is general council to Madison Syuare Garden Corporation, the company that owns and operates the New York Knicks and Rangers. Bluming once represented the New York Yankees. -The Observer 
..... 
------·----, 
THOMAS E ACCETA. I found your wallet 

DESPERATELY need 1 student ticket Need ONE GEORGIA TECH student tick­Helplllf I need three (3) G.A.'s lor the Lefty.
!. See Carlos, office 340 CCMB bnng 

and 2 G.A. ·s for GA. TECH. Call Doug et. Call 8621. Are your quahfJcatJons long enough to some I. D. please.
I NOT!CES Georgia Tech game. II you can help, 
1057. call Tree at 6784. qualify for my band?
~-------------------__; 
NEED 4 GA'S FOR GA. TECH. CALL JIM RyLOST: Round gold p1n With 1Mals TFA lost USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED . at3331. NO CALLS AFTER MIDNITE NOTRE DAME .. a canng place. UNITED 
somewhere in McCandless Hall area at faculty wife of intermediate ab11ily look1ng
SAT. SUN. 9-7. CASPERSON, 1303 WAY DRIVE NOV. 1-8. FAIR SHARE 
Sa1nt Mary's. Great sentimental value. for racketball partners. Call Carol Wilken The United Network of Independent Car­
-~
BUCHANAN AD , NILES. HELP! NEED 1 GA FOR GEORGIA $2.00 OR MORE SEE YOUR SECTION
Call4-1-4055. at233-3684 toonists w1sh to announce the Induction ofTECH PLEASE CALL3125 LEADER. 
its newest member. Jeb ·s1mon" CashmUSED & OUT-PAINT BOOKS bought, 
LOST: A dark brown, Angora baby's hat Need nde to Cleveland for Thanksgiving. U.N.I.C. IS under the direction of Michael sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. NEED 4 GA PENN ST TIX. CALL PEARY RIDERS NEEDED -To Des M01nes or 
between the Memonal Library and the Call John at6450. Molanty" Molinelli who 1s also 1ts onlyTues-Sunday, 12-6.1027E. Wayne(One AT 267-6381 AFTER 6 PM along 1-80 West Leaving Thursday. Nov. 
Huddle on Monday 11102181. $5 present member. Pat Byrnes. Illustratorblock south of Eddy-Jefferson intersec­5, at 1:00 p.m. and returning on Sunday.
Reward! Please call6218! Need nde to Cedar Rap1ds. Iowa for T­Ementus. IS on a sabbattcal of unknowntion) NEED PENN STATE TIX--1 or 2 GAs or Call John at 651 0. 
givlng. Can leave after 11 am on Weds. length 1n San D1ego w1th the off1c1al
STUDENT. CALL JOHN 1947. ­LOST. One mind, last seen floating at Please call L1sa at 8160. U.N.I.C. masseuse.
OVERSEAS JOBS -Summer/year WANTED Part-T1me Waitress. Apply 1n 
party. II found, please contact--wait a

round. Europe, S.Amer , Australia, As1a. person ONLY from 12 to 7PM. 130 
minute~~ I've forgotten my name! Need nders east on 1-60 (preferably North NEED THREE GA TICKETS FOR GA
All fields. $500-$1200 monthly. Sightsee­D1x1eway S South Bend SHANGHAI To the Illustrious RA of Momssey, Tom 
Jersey). Leaving Friday. Nov. 20 about TECH. CALL 258-0030 BETWEEN 8 AND 
Ing. Free info. Wnte IJC, Box 52-IN-4, RESTAURANT' Two Beer" Brady. 
LOST! TWO CAMERAS: VIVITAA w/INI­2:30, return Sunday, 11129. call Chris at 12 p.m. ASK FOR DOUG 
Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 Roses are re~-A 
TIALS TAM. and 35 mm KONACA 3364. 
Beer JS brown 

PLEASE CALL 4686 SMC IF FOUND. AT I NEED 1 TICKET TO GENESIS CON­THE ZAHM COFFEEHOUSE IS OPEN
Part-t1me help: Good money oppor­We hope you didn't get SICk 
LEAST RETURN THE FILM -CERT! BE 1ST OR EVERY THURSDAY FOR YOUR EXIS.
IT'S IA­MUST 2ND REPLACABLE. THANKS. TENTIAL PLEASURE. OFFERING THE
tunity, male or female needed, 5-9 When your birthday came around. 
AOW.CALL 3122 FINEST IN LIVE ENTERTAINMENT,
weekmghts to phone potential sub­
Happy 22ndl! 
scribers $3.35/hr. plus commissions. Booz1n BuddieS 
LOST Tl30 CALCULATOR IN FRONT OF COFFEE, TEA, HOMEMADE DONUTS,
Call277-5448, Noon-4 p.m. P S Dean. Best w1shes for a qUick
BUSINESS AD. BUILDING CALL JIM Need 2 Ga Tech GA·s MUST BE GOOD FREE POPCORN AND PAT GALLAG­
recovery

8658 SEATS! Will Pay$$$ call: Steve 1816 HER. COME DOWN AND SEE IF OUR
LOGAN CENTER VOLUNTEERS: Rec 
PROFESSIONAL CONVER­

starts th1s Saturday at! 0:30 Instead of the Dear Mary Anne Daher: usual9.00 s1nce we are go1ng to the foot­I STILL need some TECH GAs tor Sat. .. If Good luck on your b1g deCISIOn We're
Penn St. t1cket wanted please call Donna SATIONALISTS ARE PAID ENOUGH. I -------r at6771 9-12 EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT,
ball game you can help, please call JE$$, 8659 all beh~nd you
ZAHM BASEMENT. 
Love. Queen's Court
I FOR RENT I 

HELP!!!f'LL DEFINITELY KILL MYSELF 
HELPI NEED GAs FOR GEORGIA IF I DON'T GET SEVERAL GEORGIA
,--'---------------...J GREG ABAD W1ll you please get a
TECH. CALL 41-4687 tor a good t1me call Debb1e 5764 (SMC) 
TECH GA Sill! I PLEASE SAVE MY LIFE-­
Klondike Clue!! 
ROOMMATE WANTED to share a com­·CALL 1009

LO$i/FOJND 
Need 4 GA's for Georg1a Tech. Call Norb I love you too Danny!L__ pletely lurn1shed apt. (inc. CABLE T.V.) AttentiOn Demers. for 1nto on exotiC and
at6862 close to N.D. call Dave at263-1169 WANTED PENN STATE TICKETS. secluded beach resort area, call Pam Happy Personal Cathy Callahan! 
CALL PAT 8892 Degnan at 41-5236 and ask about
LOST AE·t CANON CAMERA DURING WANTED 2 GEORGIA TECH GA'S CALL FURNISHED APARTMENT FOR RENT HORSESHOE BEACH. 
USC WEEKEND. IF FOUND PLEASE 259-8194 The entire odd quad has dales It's a CALL 2968 REWARD Ill m1racle. Dave
2 Bedrooms, carpeted, pnvate entrance, Need tix for Penn State. Call Stan. 3006 or wanted: 3 g.a.s to Georgia Tech call Mary 
n1ce neighborhood, near bus terminal. 3008 Who s the Bad-Mama-Jama? Sus1e $250 per month. Including utilities. Call Vasta. of course! 
LOST. qne Mam1ya flash a«achment at3766 GP-EAS DO IT WITH OAGANONSI near LeMans Hall on Halloween mght. If 
Bob, 287-9003. after 4:30. GROUCHY FAMILY HAS NEVER BEEN TO GAME Need 5 GEORGIA TECH GAs 
ANDY STEIN IS FINALLY20--TODAY!!

found, please call4379 at SMC NEED GA GT PLEASE CALL CHRIS ND-SMC SENIOR WOMEN MASS ­MALE ROOMMATE NEEDED FOR FUR­Call Chns 232-2649$$$ 
4392 SMC 
SUNDAY NOV. 6 -11 a.m. REGINA 

NISHED APARTMENT $110/MONTH Andy.
lost· light brown tweed sports tacket at the HALL SENIOR CLASS RETREAT ­UTILITIES PAID 287-5469 I NEED 2 GA·s for Geog1a Tech for vis111ng Just for your birthday I am not g01ng to
Reg1na screw-your· roommate The Have 2 GA Tech Gas for sale. Call SUNDAY NOV. 6-3 PM TO 6 PM
call you today OR tomorrow. Have a nice 

name of John Mesmer IS on the 1ns1de 
parents Call the Madman. John E at 
Melinda at 8031. MONROE HALL. IF INTERESTED, CON­
hangover and recovery. Happy Birthday!!

l1n1ng If found call 8892 or return to 115 8437 cause I gats lots of MONEY Th1s TACT: KATHLEEN -4600 SMC OR Zahm advertisement courtesy of the 714 Club. Love. Mon1ca 
BARB-8124ND. 

FOUND: D1g11al watch near Lewis on Oc­DESPERATELY NEED tickets to PSU PROBLEMS? QUESTIONS? CALL THE Thanks for noth1ng, chump. tober 30 ldent1fy to cta1m. 8621. GAY STUDENT HOTLINE THURSDAYS
game. Will buy outnght and/or trade for a nde to PSU. Call Fran at4385 after 6PM. 
9-11 PM 283-6262 SPONSORED BY Hey Trapper John, I mean Hawkeye--the Found: A bracetet1n Lyons Hall after Sat THE GAY STUDENTS OF NOTRE semor, I mean freshman--from Washing­
AIDE NEEDED TO LONG ISLAND FOR 

nne Halloween party. call7865to 1dent1fy THANKSGtViNGII CAN LEAVE AS EAR­please!!! I NEED 2 GA'S FOR GA. TECH DAME SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE ton, I mean Texas--! thought you sa1d I LY AS MONDAY AFTERNOON. WILL WILL PAY BUCKS: CALL JOE 8866 ... "SIMON" 
was antiSOCISII!!I SHARE USUAL CALL PHIL AT 8278 the touching story of a Father and his 
OUR HAPPY HOURS GET NO Wanted GA Tickets, PENN STATE. Call
FOUND· Calculator at Bus1ness Bldg mouse... RESPECT -find out why... K of C 4 p.m. BOBBY KNIGHT AND DIGGER 
Call1285to Identify. wa1tresses and watters needed good Pet8892 Fnday PHELPS working conditions and good pay must be 
Lost a SOLID STATE ELECTRONICS UNITED WAY Monday mght at 10 p.m. 1n the Engineer­
21 and have transportation call277-1541 Desperately need 3 Georgia Tech. GAs.
BOOK. BY Streetman. Please call 8330 UNITED WAY Student Un1on Foreigner lottery Ing Audtorium to benef1! The Observer­and ask for Jay. ltost111n Hayes-Healy. I Please help A1ta. Call41·4522. UNITED WAY Tomght at 71n Stepan Center Landon Turner Fund. Brought to you by cannot replace !hiS book, please return 11. GIVE YOUR FAIR SHARE Alumni and St. Ed's Halls. Be there ·
RIDE NEEDED TO SYRACUSE OR ROCHESTER NY FOR THANKSGIVING need 2 Georg1a Tech !IX Call Colleen 4-1-NOV.1-8. 
FIRST DEGREE KNIGHTS the THIRD 
CALL AMY 6885 4908

LOST ONE TAN WALLET. SATURDAY DEGREE is Sunday call701 8 for Informa­Fllher. APPAOX 1100 AM: IF FOUND CALL UNITED WAY tion. transportation is provtded Bruen-Phllllpa.
TO ANY AND ALL PITTSBURGH HEY TEX. MY CATTLEAANCHEA DAD­
JIM AT x8286, REWARD IF FOUND GIVE YOUR FAIR SHARE OF Thank you for your generous gi«s to The 
SWEETHEARTS: If you re dnv1ng home DY NEEDS 2 GEORGIA TECH $2.00 OR MORE Turner Notre
MARY JO , DO YOU MISS YOUR LATE ObserverwLandon Fund. 
for ThanksgiVIng and want a nder who ·s GA SWILL TOP BEST OFFER CALL
LOST! a se1ko gold wnst watch -before SEE YOUR SECTION LEADER NIGHT PHONE FRIENDS? IF YOU DO, Dame comes through aga1n.
good company. and w111 share usual. g1ve MARK 3895 

break II found call3122 for reward' WE WANT TO KNOW. PLEASE Leanne a call'! Call 7076. I'll leave 
Student Union Foreigner Lonery RESPOND OR ITS GOODBYE QUOTE OF THE WEEK No. 2: ROCK, FOUND One key w1th large key nng. Call anyt1me!ll Georg1a Tech GA's for sate. Call Malt at Tomghl at7 p.m. in Stepan Center FOREVER. .. WHY IS IT BLUEIIIII 
M1ke at 8567to cla1m Don't miss 1t.
232-0921 Need a nde to Champa1gn.ll. on Fnday 6. 

SHOW ~OMEONE YOU CARE WITH A V1v1an. 
Would like to return on Saturday 7. Please Need 2 GA T1x for Saturday. Call 8209 or
FOUND bracelet 1n Pasquenlla East VOLUNTEERS IN DIOCESAN ACTION MONTH OF FLOWERS. A BOUQUET Sorry for the tate repty...roughcall Pat-6601. 8493 after 10 p.m. and ask for Joe 
restroom on 1 0-31. Call 8779to descnbe (VIDA) REPRESENTATIVE TO OF FRESH FLOWERS DELIVERED weekend My move: King's pawn to RECRUIT IN MEMORIAL LIBRARY 
EVERY 4 WEEKS. VASE INCLUDED IN Queen's castle. Commun1que forthcom­FOUND. Two Rodney Dangerfield TiCk­RIDE NEEDED TO MILWAUKEE on Nov. WANTED TWO GEORGIA TECH GA'S. CONCOURSE ON FRIDAY. NOV. 6 THE FIRST DELIVERY. WEDNESDAYS Ing. ets Call3175 and 1dent1fy seats! 13 call Dan at 8693 CALL TIGHE AT 232-2578. FROM 9:30 to 3:30. FLOWERS 289-1211 J.l. 





Classifieds 
lnterhall racquetball and handball tournaments beg1n lh1s week. Pairings will appear each week in The Observer. Players not pa1red lh1s week rece1ved byes and should watch lor their pairing next week. It is the responsibility of each partiCipant to contact hiS or her opponent and set up a match in each round Resulls of matches must be turned in to the interhall office (C-2 ACC) before noon on the following Tues­day Failure to report resulls will mean d1squallficat1on 
of both partiCipants. 
Men's Racquetball Tony P1erce (1424) v. Neil Hutchinson (8314) Pat Doran (8401) v. M1ke Jasper (1130) Kev1n Sampson (3379) v. Chns Ha!f1eld (1171) Kev1n Norburg (1573) v. Don Shank (8717) George LaChance (8175) v. Randy H1ll (4540) Bruce Turner ( 1388) v Dam1an Marshall ( 1509) Dave Desaulmers (1750) v. Steve Pearsall (3510) Ne1l ChadwiCk (277-6320) v. Bnan Murray (8941) Joe Skelly (8810) v. Rob Ebert (8428) Greg Mart1n (1165) v. Jack E1senbe1s (1058) Kev1n O'Bnen ( 1767) v. Steve Forche (3591) Tony Catenne (1621) v. M1ke Mulligan (3345) Bob Powers (3306) v. Carlos Mart1nez (8640) Rich Cordova-bye Matt Brach -bye TomO'Bnen-bye 
Women's Racquetball Jodi Dranc1k (2914) v. M1ssy Sorapure (288-0993) Tamara M1ller ( 1363) v Chns Cervenak ( 1363) Mary Schmitt (3352) v. Martha Gallagher (4312) Pam Gorsk1 -bye 
Women's Grad Racquetball Jane Barker (272-7325) v. Cynthia Watson (7711) Susan Roberts (282-1 029) v Dorothy Pashley 
(6738) 
Men's Grad-Fac Racquetball Smith Burn (8819) v. Dav1d Kessler (7636) J1m Croke (234-2880) v. Mark Mullert (3844) Jack Jones (8827) v. V11ay Ramon (4364) Ken Roos (277-7158) v. M1ke Caylor (277-3306) 
Handball Joe Gildner ( 1154) v Bob Bradley ( 1154) Kelly Clark (287-8526) v. James Franc1s (1391) Dan1el Kolb (272-7033) v Kev1n Schm1dl (1602) Dave Desaulimers (1750) v. Ray Steger (3664) 

The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4 30 p.m. However, classifieds tD appear in the next tssue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail. 
The Observer -Sports Thursday, November 5, 1981 -page 8
,.. 
--------------------------------------------------------~----------~----~~~­

Indiana basketball coach Bobby Knight willjoin Digger Phelps in the Engineering Auditorium Monday to talk basketball for the Landon Turner Fund. See Skip Desjardin's article on page 12 for details. 
FOREIGNER lottery 
7:00 Thurs. Stepan 
.i­
an SU lottery 
N D Student Unfon wfth the Anthropology 
& Sociology departments presents: Dr. Donald Johanson, Anthropologist on "The Evolution of man" 
monday, Nov. 9, 8:00pm lib. aud. 
lottery for 1 dfnner wfth Dr. Johanson names must be fn by 3:00 pm Nov. 6 at the SU secretary 

'*******************"1
1C STRAIGHT FLUSH iC iC rock'n roll and country rock ~ ~ . b k' £ £ 1 •.
i( now accepting oo 1ngs 10r 10rma s ~ .fc and hall parties 1C
ir -Jeff Barcus~ 
_.as seen at Mardi Gras and _ iC
256 5586

« many hall formals • 
******************''** 

Women's soccer arrives 
1981 has been quite a memorable year for Notre Dame soccer. 
Of course, the first thing that comes to mind is the magnificent feat (or is it "feet?") of the varsity men's squad in upsetting national powerhouse Sr. Louis earlier this year. The hope now is for a first-eve I r NCAA tourna­ment bid for the Irish squad that just five years ago had only club status at the University. 
However, this year has been a memorable one for 
more than just one soccer team at Notre Dame. 
The women's soccer club concluded their inaugural 
year of action last Sunday with a 0-0 tie of St. Joseph's 
Bank to run their t1nal season record to 6-1-2. Since it 
was only the first year for the team, it has not yet at­
tained official club-status (that is, financial benefits 
from the University's Non-Varsity Athletic Depart­
ment). but did compete in the "Michiana Soccer As­
sociation" ( MSA) which was comprised of women's 
teams from South Bend business firms as well as a team 
from St. ,\1ary's College. 
But like their male counterparts at soccer, the 
women's program is ready to make quick strides toward 
prosperity. When one talks to Head Coach Phoebe Hof­
fman (assistants include senior Paul Pisarski and junior 
Brian McCurrie), and junior goalie Tracy Walters, who 
was the most instrumental figure in creating the club, 
one can't help but think the women's soccer program 
may someday attain the success the men's club has. 
"When we started the season, I just didn't know what 
to expect, save for a losing season," recalls Walters. "But 
this season was just fantastic. I never would have 
guessed there would be as many talented people com­
ing out for the team as there were. 
"The program will definitly grow in the years to 
come," says Hoffman. "The enthusiasm that the girls dis­
played was really great, and with the popularity that the 
sport is beginning to have throughout the country for 
women, it is going to get better." 
Ironically, the real story for the club this year was the 
loss to Marquette University. 
Explains Walters, "They've always had a very good 
men's soccer program at Marquette, and have built a 
fine women's program in the last three years. So when 
we took the field against them in our first-ever match 
against a (good) varsity team from another college, I 
was just thinking, 'Wow, they're 8-0.' I think we were all 
really nervous for that one." Notre Dame lost 3-2. 
"We had several great shots to win the game, but we just missed two of our penalty shots," says Walters. "However, we were able to use that game as a measur­ing device to understand just where we do stand as a soccer program -and we quickly realized that we had nothing to be ashamed of." 
"The support that we have received from the men's 
varsity team, Rich Hunter and his assistants, has just 
been tremendous," she continues. "They have provided 

facilities, shared their field, provided uniforms. and would even work with us in improving our own skills after they finished their practice." 
While the present is promising, the future looks even more brighter. With 15 of the 25 members of the club being underclassmen. and junior underclassmen such as Walters returning, the club is in an excellent position to continue sowing the seeds that have been planted in women's soccer this year. 
"Some of our freshman and sophomores are really fantastic since they have already had some background in their high school or summer leagues that have developed recently throughout the country," states Walters. "With those leagues we should continue to get a greater influx of talent and experienced players com­ing here in the years to come." 
Starting next year, the team will also play solely against club and varsity teams from other colleges, as it has withdrawn from the MSA. The team will try also to host at least a couple oftournaments this spring against different schools. 
Come springtime, interhall soccer for women will enter its third year of competition at Notre Dame ­something Walters sees as a chance to recruit some hid­den talents as a means of contining the club's prosperity. 
"I urge everyone to try out for their respective hall's 
team. It's really something that is worth looking into. 
We will still be working with the basic fundamentals in 
practice, so there will be no need for newcomers to fear 
a lack ofexperience as a hindrance." 
Finally, the team is currently working on a constitu­
tion to submit to the Non-Varsity Athletics Department 
for the attainment of official club status. As NVA Presi­
dent Tom Kelly summarizes the current position of 
women's soccer at Notre Dame, "things look quite 
positive for a fine future for them here." 
SKI MEETING TONIGHT OPEN TO CAMPUS: There will be an informational meeting tonight at LaFortune's Little Theatre at 7:00 p.m. concerning the Christmas break trip that members of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's ski club will make to Winter Park, Colorado for an inter­collegiate meet with over 500 competitors. The meeting is open for anyone on campus who is in­terested in making the trip. The ND-SMC racing ski team will hold their organizational meeting also in the little theatre at 8:00p.m. 


Kiel 

And just as Kiel knew how to ex­pace and tempo. I feel that I'm in 
plain his difficulties. he knows how control of the offense. I have more 
to explain his successes. confidence in my ability to lead this 
"I'm a lot more relaxed now," he team." 
Confidence is terrific, but Lich­tenberg points out that confidence alone cannot do the job. "A player needs to feel success," he says. "Once a kid gets a taste of success, he begins to believe that he can do the job. Blair's had to hang in there through some tough times, but he's handled the problems welL" 
But what about the critics who claim that Blair is not the man for the job? "Blair has improved a lot," Lich­tenberg claims. "He has always been able to throw the ball well. But now he's learning to be a passer, not just a thrower. He's learning when to drill the ball and when to have a soft touch. We doubt he'll repeat his mistakes." 
Kiel agrees. ''I'm happy with my performance, but I'm not satisfied," he says. "I've been a little lucky the past couple of weeks and I still have a lot ofimprovement to make. I need to work on reading the defensive coverages and adjusting to different situations, like when to run and when to pass." 
Koegel has helped Kid also. "Tim has supported me from the very beginning,'' he says. "We work to­gether for the good of the team. The important thing is that we win. 
"It would have been nice to have the starting quarterback picked prior to the start of the season, but it didn't work out that way. The coach­ing staff needed time to decide which of us should be in there." 
Now Blair Kid is the No. I quar­
terback, and the Irish appear to be 
on track. 


---------------· Observer -Sports Thursday. November 5, 1981 
9 




C point-shaving rial continuing 
EW '\'()RI\.(AP)-Tht: onc-timc 
-in ~irlfrit:nd of former Boston lkgt· haskcthall player Ril:k Kuhn titkd ycstnday that he 
t•ncd to kill hn if ~hc en-r told alkged schcmt· to shave points thc 197H-1979 scason. 
Rced, 2S, currcntly a at a hospital in Syrat·u~e. also ificd that during the season, Kuhn alkgedly was being paid for each gamc he: hdpcd rig, uncharactcristically began ng prescnts, furniturc, a stcrco, 
and jewds. llc said hc had a hctting thing set a way to make: money during 
111 so we could ht· takt·n care Rced, a prosccution witncss, unckr quc:Mioning 
and four othcr mcn -An· 
and Rocco Perla, both ofBrad­k Hills, Pa.; Paul Mazzei of sbur¢1; and Jamt·s Burke: of 
-arc: on trial in Rrook~yn 
ht:fore U.S. District Judge Henry Bramwdl on charges they conspirt:d to ~have points during ~ix Roston Colkge games to tht• advantage of knowkdgahk bettor~. 
In latt-r tcstimony, another Boswn College player of the time:, Joe: Beaulieu, said Kuhn had asked him to participate in the point-shaving scheme and said the participants would be brought to New York and availed of cocaine and, "I assume," money. 
He said thc deal Kuhn prupo~cd -which Beaulku said he didn't ht~comc: involved with -was not to lose games, but to keep the score within the point spread. 
Asked why he did not tdl officials about the: proposal, Beaulieu said he was concerned about his eligibility, that Kuhn was "a friend of mine," and said he: did not think the plan in;. portant because: the team wasn't playing with any less "intensity." 
.. 

Irish women's basketball coach Mary DiStanis· Lyons Hall. (photo by David GuffeJ•) lao discusses he1· team's outlookfor Ibis season in 
Miami Dolphin coach Don Shu/a has good put him u•itbin a game of200 NFL r•ictories. (AP reason to smile -the Dolpbill win last Sunday photo) 
!
• 
inuedjmm pap,e I.! 
: 
tt· pep rally and .tn open ha~kt·t· 
~t-rtmmagt·. 
: 
I'hing~ wnll ~o wdllast Saturday wc·'n· dcl'idnl to open pral'lict· agam tht~ \\t'l'k," Phdp~ ~ap. 
: Friday·.·'II han· anotlwr ~cnmm:1gl'. and '}'OIIl' b wdconu: to attend." e 

Shula chases yet
another record 
MIAMI (AP)-This Sunday could test for us to determine whether or 
·he another landmark in Don Simla's not we're playoff-hound." cart·er. but the Miami Dolphins His tlrst victory was 20-14 m•t·r coach b more conn:rned about tht· San Francisco on Sept. 2.2, 1965. dfc:o.:t a vicory ovcr New England Raymond Berry was injured that could have on his club's 19HI cham­game, and Shula's Colts went on to pionship drivt:. an H-6 finish. 
The Dolphms' 27-10 victory over "I rememhcr a young head coach Bal!imore la~t Sunday gavt: Simla a who wanted to do wdl and a grt·at 19lJ-H0-6 rcn>rd since Ill' began his rccl:'iver going down," Shula said. :"'iatinnal Football League coachmg "Actually. wt· had tht· game won a carl't:r at Baltimore. at agt· :H. in wcl'k earlier in my coaching ddmt I ';l(>.t against the Nl'W York Giant~. Wt· 
<>nly Gcorgt: Halas, Curly Lam­were picked apart bv a 4uartnhat'k beau and Tom Landry have won 200 named Y.A. Tittle and a hack named professional games. Alex Wt·hstt:r." 
"Right now, the important thin~ is Simla said the t·arly vktorit:s us winning our scventh game. Some­aren't any mort· meaningli.ll than day. wht·n you have time to cherish some of hs recent Olll'S. all your an:omplishmems, it's some­"You just move on. That's thl' thing I'll he proud ot;" Shula said. thing that I do whether I win or lose. 
"I h.tvt· the ball that was givcn to l'vt: never ht'l'n one to dwell on the: me after the IOOth (Oct. I -;, l972 ). past." It's at home. But it doesn't help me 
win ~unday," he added. Shula, coach of two Super Bowl "This is the year we want to winners, including the NFL's only I'-0 team evn, said the 19 years
change a lot ofthings around," Simla . . said. "...Thi~ is another important have sltppt:d hy qutckly.
..-.....-............. ......... 
: IDON·r GET NO : 


i ~-~! ,..= 
• 
:: RODNEY !• 
: ! DANGERFIELD ! 
: :FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6 s:oo: 
e : NOTRP DAME A.C.C. • 
he: practin· and 'crunmagc will plan· lwtwc:nl 'J:.~O and I I :50 
:. Gl' 1 Het·nekens .: :TICKETs~~·:·· .:
rday mornin).: on tlw main Boor ~ • LE AT THE A.C.C. 1e A<.<.. 
e e ·• BOX OFFICE. ALSO AVAILABLE • 
Vl-ral dorm!> ha\'l· nmtributl'll 
c lund, and other money raising • Sat rda • :AT: RoBERT N's rN s. BEND, AND: 
indudc J drawing tor two 
e U y: e :THE CONCOH. MALL, St. JOSEPH'S :
graphed haskl'th.tlls. The· fund· 
1g will continut· until Ike I, 
• 75At M • : •BANK (MAIN : ~{ANCH), lst SOURCE • 
n Notre Daml' .takes on Indiana 
a).kcthall ~a•m· at Bloomin~ton. : ~ argar1tas e :BANK (MAIN), ELKHART TRUTH, : .\1akc d1ecks payable to the e e : SUSPENDED CHORD (ELKHART). : 
ervcr..J..andon Turner Fund. 
.•••••••••••••••••••••,., ................................ 
The Observer Sports Thursday, November 5, 1981 -page 1 
---·---­

Reggiejackson may be wearing afrown more often these days­the New York Yankees picked up experienced outfielder Ken Grif­fey from Cincinnati yesterday. The move could shorten jackson's stay witb the American League cbamps. ( APphotoJ 

BOBBY DIGGER KNIGHT & PHELPS 

··················~4~~~~·
for The Observer-Landon Turner Fund 
10 p.m. Engineering Auditorium .......................................................................,.._...............-........-...._.................................... 
Sponsored b_v ALUMNI HALL & ST· ED'S HALL 


~ f&it4at.bf ,6 
lli.A1H& IHE~1J<JbN~ Open 6 days a week, •; 
k~~th 417 DIXIEWAY~-. 
of across from Wen~ys. ~~. Campus 277-0734 
personalized Hair Desi!{ns 
Sign Griffey 

Yankees replace Jacksor 
NEW YORK (AP) -The New York Yankees picked up veteran out­fielder Ken Griffey from the Cincin­nati Reds yesterday in exchange for minor-league pitcher Brian Ryder and a player to be named later. 
Calling Griffey "a proven quantity. a great player and a gentleman." Lou Saban, president of the Yankees, in­troduced the new Yankee player to the media at Yankee Stadium. 
Griffey, who has a lifetime batting average of . .307, comes to the Yankees after eight seasons with the National League team. Saban said, "An agreement in principle has been reached with Ken and his agent, Tom Reich." 
None of the parties involved would reveal the terms ofthe agree­ment, but Reich ditl admit it was a "multi-year" contract. He also ~aid, "Griffey isn't with Cincinnati be­cause last spring they (the Reds) declined to make such an offer -a lung-term contract with a guaranteed salary." 
Griffey, 31, wore a blue Yankee cap with the white New York insig­nia and held up one of the famed pinstriped shirts during the news conference. 
Griffey, a right-fielder most of his career, was quickly asked if he was prepared to replace slugger Reggie jackson, now a free agent, as the New York right fielder. 
"I'm here to do the job they hired me to do -play the outfield. I play wherever the manager puts me," said Griffey, who himselfcould have become a free agent following the 1981 season. 
Pressed on whether he could fill 
Jackson's  big  shoes  with  the  
Yankees,  the  diplomatic  Griffey  
shrugged  and  said,  "In  terms  of  

defense, I know I can. Reggie can do an awful lot of things on offense, but I'm a lifetime .300 hitter and I can do some things, too. But, whatever hap­pens, I've played right field, center and left field; I'll do what the manager tells me to do." 
Griffey said the Yankees were the only team he knew of who tried to work out a deal with the Reds for his ~t·rvit:es, adding that they were also nis only choice of a new employer '·in the American League." 
One thing that appeared to stand out in his mind was the fact that Yankee Stauium has a natural grass playing field. 
"That takes a lot ofpres1.ure offthe legs,'' explained Griffey, -~I. "I ex­pect I'll he doing a lot myre bunting than I did in the Nationall.egue. 
Reich said the Yankees tit the criteria that Griffey had in mind in changing teams. 
"We were looking for natural grass, a contender and an economic package that was correct for a player of Ken's magnitue," Reich said. 
Asked if they'd had any problems dealing with volatile Yankee owner George Steinbrenner. Reich said, "absolutely not. He has good vision and he's agressive. His public image is one thing, but he's great to do business with. He knows how to pull the trigger; to make up his mind and do the job." 
Griffey thanked Steinbrenner, who did not attend the news con­ference. Asked about the periodic eruptions in Steinbrenner's dealings with his players, Grifft:y smiled and 
said, "I've had to deal with Mr. Wag­ner (Reds General Manager Dick Wagner), and he can be pretty hard to deal with, too." 
Wagner, commenting on the deal in Cincinnati, said, "The first goal of 
the Reds was to sign Griffey to a 1 long-tt:rm contrau. After nume 
meetings and talks with Kenny 
his agent, it was apparenr we 
n not work out an arrange 
suitable to both parties. 
"Rather than wan for the ( agent re-entry) draft, we felt it are able to obtain two quality y< players who are prospects ­with professional experience. ! 
"Ryder is a fine young pitc who, at 21. has four winning seas ofexperience and a total of 13 mi 
league win~. He is well regarde scouts who feel he has a very br future." 
Steinbrenner has said Yankees, who lost the World Se to the Los Angeles Dodgers in games, will undergo some cha before next season. And he hinted broadly at times that th changes will be sweeping. 

Basketball ticket sale concludes today 
Notre Dame Students The ticket windows will be op 
Basketball ticket sales and dis-from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. through tribution for Notre Dame students lunch hour. will conclude today. (Nov. 5). The Crowd-control gates and stud student basketball season ticket will security per:;onnel will be utiliz be split into two eight-game for the ticket issue. Please stand packages ofequal quality as follows: single lines as indicated by t 
Package A crowd-control gates. Gate 2 will Sat., Nov. 28-St. Joseph's open at 7:.30 a.m. daily. Mon., Dec. 7 -Murray State Astudent ID and payment must Sat., jan. 16 -Davidson prt:sented at the ticket windows Sat.,Jan. 23-Maryland the second floor of the ACC. T Wed., jan. 27-Maine prices of the alternatives are as f Tues. Feb. 2 -San Francisco lows: Bleachers -Sl8 for o Sat., Feb. 27-DePaul package. Make checks payable tot Ttu:s.. Mar. 2 -Northern Iowa Cniversity of Notre Dame. 
Package B All ~eats are assigned in the st Fri., Nov. 20 -Yugoslavia Team dent section, but are NOT pre Sat.. Dec. <; -UCLA signed by the Ticket Office. If y Sat., Dec. 12 -Northern Illinois wish to sit with a classmate. y Tues.,jan. 19-Villanova must present your IDs and mon Mon., jan. 2S-Idaho together for adjac..·nt seating. Sat., Jan. 30 -Marquett.: student may present more than fo Sat., Feb. I .3 -N.C. State IDs. Tues., Feb. 23 -Fordham 
----._ Saint Mary's Students Fn·shmen ~·ill bt: offert·d the Lottery winners then must bring rt•sidual of tht~ tight-game season check for $1 H to the Student A tickets from above on a first· come, tivities offke no later than tomol first-servt:d basis. row (Nov. 6 ). -The Observer ] 

PieJr Up 
Your Spirits 
Cases Old Milwaukee Miller 
Jim Beam 
Blend 
Big 
1.75 Liter 

And Enjoy Lower Priees! 
Canfield 's Pop NIKOFF 
7 flavors VODKA 1.75 Liter 89 ¢ for 2 Htres PETRI 4 liters 


Y2 KEGS WINES 449 
BURGUNDY, CHABLIS,
Bud or Busch 3399 PINK CHABLIS, RHINE, VIN ROSI:. Michelob 
37 99 1621 South Bend Ave. call us for all your party needs! 233-4603 Roseland 272-2522 
••• Digge~ 
cvntinuedfrompage 1.! 
j 
The starung front line in t November 28 opener against mi~ St. joseph's of Rensst"!aer figures be Billy Varner and Tom Sluhy at fll wards, with Bar~ Spencn. normal a ~wingman, plal'ing center. Sor1 folks -Cecil just isn l readv y 
On tht: ~urface. it looks like I might he a dbappointing st.·a.,on sort of a football wa~on with g\ shorts and 'nt·aker~ :\l•t much o '>t:a'<m ti1r I >igger to he under t micro.,cop,·. And 11 thing, do .'our. Phelps st dl will be here to k1 around. llaving turned do\\11 t l'( .lA 10h and lost his dt:.,•n· for ,Ill 111 pro haskl'!hall. Diggt:r'., pre much t.<lll1111ittn1 ~" :\otr<: I>amc ~ .11 lt:a!>t the next fl\·c H·ars. suhwl alumm pt:rmntinK 
But. despitt· the gloomy outtm! tht.T<: is one a.~pt.Tl rhat 'lick~ D and refuses to It-ave: this seasll more than ,Ill\ lJther 10 tilt' p~ decadt-_ :\otrt· DanK will bt· in tl undndo~ pqsttion that II litera thnve~ on. 


. -~ ~--------~-~~--~ 


=====·==--­
Thursday, November 5, 1981 -page 11 
Michael Molinelli 



~ -­
I T /NANT YD!Ji: 5WL JWNJT You~ 1-ovG. .. ,BUT 1T 
5£f-HS ;;'11 ALh!AYs TAK!Io.lq 5£Cei\l[) PL-AC.£" /7) 'tDV~ RDDHNAI£S 



Doonesbury 


The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 30 Cheroot 1 Partly 32 Oak fruit 5 Old car 33 Spotted 9 Intrigue rodent 
14 Saudi 34 Hibernia Arabia 38 Soviet district seaport 

15 Choir voice 39 Snuggery 16 Like sheep 40 Soffit 17 Descartes companion 18 Neighbor-41 Graven 
hood image 19 Cooking 42 Again 

stove 43 Wheel hubs 20 Be nasty to 44 Bathed 23 Bonn's 46 Sincere 
land: abbr. 47 Brilliantly 24 Complain colored 25 Ascribes fish 27 Western 50 Tailless 

milieu amphibian 
Wednesday's Solution 

11/5/81 


Garry Trudeau 
ARtN1 'rOO60-0H. fff3H. WH~ /NG 70 (He?.Me A/it MY/f1IINIJti(S? Sf»1& CF YaJR lAtH/iT'S Ya/R. 
MW!C4TION? P/.EAS/.JR&, 
/ {)(}K&? 
Jeb Cashin 
51 Holbrook 22 Musical 52 Eliminate instrument tension 26 Informal 58 Getaway 27 Garment 
from tor a rani 60 Prima donna 28 Tart 61 Likewise 29 Identifying 62 Wyoming statement 
mountain 30-in 
range (collapsed) 63 Fuss 31 Frosting 64 Roma room expert 65 Ice pellets 33 Do road 66 Copied work 67 French and 35 Enthuse 
Belgian 36 Burl of river song 37 "A-of 
DOWN robins ..." 1 Deer 39 Hut 2 Confused 43 Vessel 3 Liaison builder 4 Melees 45 Mounting 5 Speed 46 Car, of 6 "Silas a kind 
Marner" 47 Sharpens author 48 "Bolero" 7 Aleutian composer island 49 Winged 8 Burns or 50 Commerce Frost 53 Como­
9 Eye part usted? 10 A Gardner 54 Above 11 Bender 55 Ah, me! 12 Pique 56 Man or 13 Suggestive Wight 
glances 57 Bellow 21 Certain 59 Femaleof curtain the buck 

Campus 
•9 
a.m.-4 p.m. -art prilll sale. Iafortune lobby 

•9 
a.m.-.3:.30 p.m -hook sale, memorial library concourse, last day 

• 
2:30 p.m. -dec chair colliquium, "language, literature and politics: peter hanke", professor mic-heal shapiro, university of hawaii, memorial library lounge 

•4 
p.m. -radiation lab seminar, "phowionization spectroscopy in the liquid phase -the effect of the medium on charge separated states", dr. k. siomos, oak ridge national lab, radiation lab con­frencc room 

•4:.30 
p.m. -lecture:, "action francaisc: maritain, bernanos, massis", professor bernard docring, nd, memorial library lounge, sponsored by depart­ment of modern languages 

•6:.30 
p.m. -aiescc general meeting, Iafortune little theater 

•7 
p.m. -lottery, foreigner tickets, stepan center, sponsored by student union 

•7, 
9 p.m. -film, "godfather part one", engineer­ing auditorium, sponsored by the sophomore class, Sl 

•7:.30, 
9:.30 p.m. -t1lm, "no nukes", o'laughlin auditorium,,! I. "iO 

•7:30 
p.m. -film, "the invasion of the body snatchers", at nncnburg auditorium, $1 

•s 
p.m. -piano festival, donna coleman, little theater, smc 

•8 
p.m. -lecture, senator george mcgovern, memorial library auditorium, sponsored by stu­dent govcnmcnt, all arc welcome 



%. Television Tonight 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. !O:OOp.m. 
10:30 ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
12:00a.m. 12:30a.m. 
16 MASH 22 CBS Nt:ws 28 jokt:r's Wild 34 Tht: MacNeil/Lt:hra Rt:port 46 Mirack Revival Hour 16 All In Tht: Family 22 Family Ft:ud 28 Tic Tac Dough 
34 Straight Talk 46 W. V. Grant 16 Tht: Waltons 22 Magnum P.l. 28 Mork and Mindy 34 jazz: An Amerkan Classic 46 Lt:stt:r Sumrall Tt:aching 28 Bt:st oftht: Wt:st 34 Crockt:tt's Victory Garden 46 Patterns For Living 16 Dill'rent Strokes 28 Barney Miller 34 Sneak Previews 46 Today with Lester Sumrall 16 Gimme A Break 28 Taxi 
34 The Woodwright's Shop 16 Hill Street Blut:s 22 jessica Novak 28 20/20 34 Masterpiece Theater 46 jack Van lmpe 46 Faith For Today 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The Dick Cavett Show 46 Praist: Tht: Lord 16 Tonight Show 22 Quincy/The Saint 28 ABC News Nightline 34 Captioned ABC News 28 Vt:gas 46 Lt:ster Sumrall Teaching 16 Tomorrow Coast To Coa.~t 46 Sharing 
-
<.,, 


~··························1
Thursday nites the beginni.ng of a 
: Tonight: : 
+ 
great weekend 
Senior Bar 

! Geotge fficGovetn ! 
tonight we introduce our Fine Wine Special 
: ''Conservatism In America'' : 
don't miss this cultural experience 9:30-2:00 
e 8 pm Llbtaty Audltotlum I
•~..........................•• 
-

r 

BlairKiel, down on his luck in the early season and down on the field here against Navy, is back 
Digger Phelps deserves better 
Among all the signs being hung out dorm windows during LSU weekend, back when people still cared about football season, amisdst all the "L.S. Who?'s" and "We Love Gerry's Kids," there was one ominous prodamation hanging from Alumni Hall that stood out prominently: 
"Does Moeller Have a Basketball Coacb?" 

The sign seemed harmless at first, but after some iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~~~~~~~~~iii:i:iiiiiii:i::ii conniving person contacted the wire services, it sud-But Digger Phelps has s~rvivect-:-And if he makes it denly appeared in newspapers from Indianapolis to Los through this season unscathed, he should receive the Angeles. Sports editors across America ate it up, too. Congressional MedaJ of Honor. With this season's You see, everybody in America, it seems, hates Digger schedule, though, a Purple Heart may be more ap­Phelps, and now it looked like even his own student propriate. 
body was turning against him. What a scoop! Phelps, as he readily will admit, faces a Gargantuan 
Digger Phelps returned to the scene ofthe crime this task in rebuilding his troops this season -replacing six past Monday, speaking to a spirited crowd of over I00 graduated seniors and the departed joe Kleine with on­in Alumni's lounge. He gave his normal speech on how ly two recruits and two new walk-ons. Forget Tim everyone in the world is corrupt in their recruiting Andree's ankle injury -things can't get any worse. practices except Notre Dame, and how he is unable to The schedule doesn't help, either -Indiana, UCLA, garner any program savers like Pat Ewing because the Kentucky, Missouri, Virginia and USF. And then, second admission standards are too high. semester begins. 
Any cynic would say that Digger was just making One thing Digger will not tell you is that his team witl excuses about this coming season. Problem was, he was be great, oreven good, this year. Deep down, he realizes telling the truth. that this season could be a potential disaster and he 
The positive reception Digger received the other wisely doesn't want to get studernts' hopes up too much. night w~.s rather surprising. You see, last season was Look what happened to Gerry Faust. suppose j to be the big year-six experienced seniors, So, this year, Digger is stressing the little things. "We mixed in with some talented underclassmen, were to really need the student support," he repeats, with em­lead the 'Irish all the way to the Final Four. These guys phasis, over and over. He will badger the referees a little didn't .:ven need a coach. The hotel reservations in more. Tighter rims will be installed in the ACC to en­Philadelphia were in the bag. courage deep rebounds, thereby negating his team's 
And then Brigham Young got in the way and ruined vast height disadvantage. 
everyone's Spring Break. When the students returned But let's face facts. The best playmaker on the team is 
to campus, they wanted Digger's head delivered on a john Paxson, who is exceptional. The team's best 
silver platter. "If Digger hadn't overcoached, we'd still outside shooter is -yep, you guessed it -John Pax­
be playing" seemed to be the general opinion. son. If anyone is unfamiliar with a "box-and-one" 
Never mind the victories over Indiana, Kentucky, San defense, you should have the technique memorized by Francisco and Virginia, all of these masterpieces in Christmas. Paxson may see it thrown at him in every coaching strategy. Never mind the fact that the Irish game. missed four one-and-ones and two layups in the last two 
See DIGGER, page 10 minutes against BYU. It was all Digger's fault. 
Knight, Phelps 




Coaches schedule appearance 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
AssociateSports Editor 
Indiana basketball Coach Bobby Knight will join Digger Phelps in an appearance at Notre Dame Monday night. The two men will talk about basketball, answer questions and meet with students in the Engineer­ing Auditorium. 
Knight led the Hoosiers t9 the NCAA Championship last spring in Philadelphia. It was the second time one of Knight's teams had won the tournament. He is probably the most well-known, ami definitely the most out-spoken coach in the country. 
The appearance is part of a drive
-
to raise money to help pay the medi­cal bills of Indiana forward Landon Turner, who was seriously injured in an automobile accident in July. All proceeds from the night's activities will benefit The Observer-Landon Turner Fund. 
Knight and Phelps are good friends, and anything can happen when the two of them get together. "The two of them together are in­credible," one of Phelps' friends says. "I don't think I've ever laughed so hard in my life as I did the last time I saw them together." 
The event is being sponsored by Alumni and St. Ed's Halls, in co­operation with The Observer. 
"Bobby really wants to speak with the students here," says Phelps. "He is putting an incredible amount of time into raising money for Turner, and he is very excited about the way Notre Dame students are showing their support." 
Knight will be in South Bend Mon­day to attend a dinner and speaking engagement at the Century Center. Proceeds fi·om that event will go toward off-setting Turner's medical expenses as well. 
The Observer-Landon Turner Fund got a great boost last weekend when just under S600 was collected 
See KNIGHT, page 9 
Thursday, November 5, 1981 -page 12 

Blair Kiel now ''in'' as No. 1 quarterback 
By DAVE DZIEDZIC "He can't throw." Sports Writer It started again. 
"It bothers me for two reasons "He can't pass." when people criticize me," Kiel says. "He never sees his receivers." "First of all, I don't like to make "He's got a rifle of an arm, but he mistakes any more than the fans like 
can't complete a pass." to see me make mistakes. Second of "He never steps up in the pocket." all, it's not fair for outsiders to "He can't read defenses." criticize me without having the ex­"He always runs when he rolls periences that I've had. I don't see 
out." those people out on the field trying "He can't throw long." to play football." 
If you've been around the Univer­Kiel knows why he has had so sity of Notre Dame at all over the many difficulties this season. "The past two years, you've probably problem has been myself," he ex­
heard at least one ofthe above state­plains. "I doubted myself. I wasn't ments made about sophomore quar­sure when to throw and when not to terback Blair Kiel. throw. I felt a great deal ofpressure. 
Why is it that Irish fans have Every time I was playing, I felt a need expressed little confidence in Kiel? to prove myself to the coaches and ' After all, he did start nine of the the fans. I was trying very hard, but I Irish's 12 games last season. He led wasn't succeeding." Notre Dame to a 9-2-1 record, a O[fensive coordinator Tom Lich­Sugar Bowl bid, and a No. 9 ranking tenberg agrees with Kiel. "Not being in the final AP poll. the starting quarterback affected 
So why have so many people been Blair a great deal," Lichtenberg ex­bad-mouthing Blair Kiel? A look at plains. "He got to the point where he some of Kiel's statistics might was pressing too hard. 
provide an answer. "He had trouble adjusting to our 
Last season, Kiel completed 48 of system," Lichtenberg adds. his 124 passing attempts for 531 "Everyone was having difficulties." yards and no touchdowns. He was Kiel was having a tough time 
intercepted five times. Blair was ef­adjusting to his role. "It's been fective, but Notre Dame fans never tougher than I expected to adjust considered him to be their quarter­this year," he says. "I thought I 
back. Coach Dan Devine's ho-hum wouldn't have to go through some of offense was blamed for some of the problems that I had last ·year. I Blair's problems. "How could any still miss home, and there's been a Notre Dame quarterback look good lot of pressure around here since this year?" they asked. we've been having problems." 
Many believed that things would Then, after the FSU game, the be different in 1981. With Blair Kiel coaching staff decided to give Kiel 
running Gerry Faust's go get 'em of­the ball against USC. "We decided to fense, Irish fans believed they were make Blair the No. 1 quarterback," in for an exciting and successful Lichtenberg says. "With his speed season. 
and running ability, he gives us an Then senior Tim Koegel an­added dimension." nounced that he would be returning And what a dimension! Since for his final year ofeligibility. All ofa being named the starting quarter­sudden, Kiel wasn't sure whether or back against Southern Cal, Kiel has not he was the man anymore. completed 25 of 46 passes for 340 Kiel was eventually named the 
yards and no interceptions. He starting quarterback for the ·LSU 
enjoyed his best day ever in an Irish game, but Faust announced that the 
uniform against Navy, completing Irish had two No. 1 quarterbacks. 
13 of 23 passes for 215 yards and Here's where the big problems 
two touchdowns. "Kiel's the best started for Kiel. He started the LSU 
quarterback I've played against in a game, but Koegel started against 
long time," said Navy defensive end Michigan, Purdue, Michigan State, 
Travis Wallington after the game. and Florida State. And besides being 
"He's extremely quick, and he's pas­relegated to the second-string job, sing even better than he was last Kiel's statistics were suffering. After year." five games, Kiel had completed only a third of his passes for 68 yards and See KIEL, page 8 had been intercepted five times. 






