~~-~-~----------------------------------­
.Irish Extra -page 7 

By JEFF CHOPPIN 
StaffReporter 
In the Campus Ufe Council's first meeting of the year, the council modified and passed the two resolu­tions passed by the Student Senate on Monday night. 
The on-campus resolution passed by the CLC eliminated all specific references to possible available loca­tions to house males who would ot­herwise be lotterled off campus. This means that any available loca­tion will be considered if It is deemed appropriate by the Univer­sity. 
The off-campus resolution recom­mended that Student Affairs authorize a committee to be ap­pointed by the CLC that would look into the various problems of the Nonheast Neighborhood. Fr. John Van Wolvlear subsequently aut­horized the committee. 
The CLC passed the on-campus resolution after it was agreed that all partlc:s were on "the same ground" as far as existing space was con­cerned. This space included the two Pa~qucrilla floors, Villa Angela, and Vincent flail. 
Fr. (ireg Green, assistant vice president ofstudent affairs, reported that Villa Angela may not be available to the Unlversuty next year. lla also stated that Vincent docs not belong to the University and that It may not be available for student housing next year. 
Fr. Van Wolvlear stated that some of the housing problem is being caused by the University's attempt to alleviate the crowded conditions 
in several mak dorms. He stated that these decisions would not be reversed. 
. 
Regarding the coed issue, Fr. Van Wolvlear stated that as long as Fr. Hesburgh Is president ofthe Univer­sity, there would be no coed dorms. He also reported that if the females do not want males living in their dorms, that going coed "will not happen." 
Frank Tighe suggested that it might be "worth it for the llnversity to forego the precedent of not having coed housing. The oppor­tunity cost to the University is 1282,400." Mark Kelley, off-campus commissioner, said that, in this case, the coed issue should be designated as having a temporary status. 
Kelley also suggested that the date ofthe lottery be moved up to April 1 or 2 so that the students that get lot­teried off-campus have more time to look for houses before Easter. Hep­pen told Student Body President Paul Riehle that a lottery would be held as soon a~ it is "logistically pos­sible." 
The four off-campus concerns dis­
cussed by the council were the 
See CLC, page 3 

Reaganproposes revised budget 
By DONALD M. ROTHBERG  document  as  any  party  platform,  Congress by Jimmy Carter. At the  defense spending is no surprise.  
AP Political Writer  providing the clearest declaration to  same time, Reagan proposes increas­ But boosting defense and reduc­ 
date ofhis view ofthe federal role in  ing defense spending by 54.8 billion.  ing the government's social role are  
WASHINGTON (AP)  - Despite  American life.  The  Pentagon's  share  of  the  political rather than economic goals,  
all the numbers, the dollar signs and  In a sense, the figures attached to  budget rises from 24 percent this  even  though  their  attainment  is  
fiscal  jargon,  President  Reagan's  Reagan's  plan  "to  alleviate  the  year to 27 percent during the fiscal  made  easier  by  economic  condi­ 
revised budget is a~ much a political  grievous  economic  plight  of  our  year beginning next Oct. 1, and 38  tions.  
people" are almost secondary. The  percent by the fiscal year starting  The  pure  economics  in  the  

Oct. 1, 1985. Reagan program to "move America To anyone who followed Reagan's 
SU reviews Chautauqua campaign speeches, the tilt toward · See REAGAN, page 5 
upcoming attractions 

primary goal of his budget is a per­

U.S. sells Saudis planes
By MARY AGNES CAREY 
manent reduction in not only the 
StaffReporter 
size, but the powers of U.S. govern­
ment. 

to discourage Soviets 
Over 300 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students attended the grand 
As Reagan put it so often during
opening ofthe LaFortune Coffeehouse, sponsored by Notre Dame Stu­
WASHINGTON (AP) The Uict. The theory is that would not be dent Government and Student Activities office. 
his presidential campaign, he wants 
to "get the government offthe backs Reagan administration, trying to dis­permitted because itcould expose "It was a rough weekend to open," said Pat Andrews, Coffeehouse courage Soviet expansion in the oil­Americans to Israeli tire. 
ofthe people."
co-chairman, "since the Bengal Bouts, the Nazz music competition, rich Persian Gulf, has decided to sell When the war between Iran and
As opponents of the Reagan cuts 
and many hall formals also took place." The S2 cover charge for each are certain to point out, the flip side Saudi Arabia four highly advanced Iraq broke out last year 1 four 
coffeehouse visitor (before 12:30 a.m.) did not cover operating ex­of that goal means throwing a lot of radar command planes and to build American A WACs jets were 1tem­penses, but Andrews explained the weekend was still successful people off the back of the govern­up an Egyptian airfield near the Red porarily deployed to Saudi Arabia as 
Sea, sources said yesterday. a precaution aginst a spillover attack"because everyone that went in there walked away impressed. 
ment, people who, though 
'Chautauqua' (the temporary name of the Coffeehouse) got the ex­The sale of the sophisticated Jets on the ollfelds. They were kept ito tal­
employed, Jive on the edge of 
to Saudi Arabi, at a cost of about ly under American control. In ~ 978, Zlbbytebo, billed as a progressive rock and roll band, and Galecki 
posure we wanted It to get." 
poveny. 
The conservative Republican 11400 million apiece, could give the there was a similar, temporary and Stout, who feature electrified bluegrass, performed. Andrews view is that the social concerns of Arab monarchy the capacity to over­deployment to Saudi Arabia. 
addt·d that 200-250 paying customers are needed at each perfor­society are best dealt with close to see Israeli air movements to a range Tl';e sources, asking not to ' be mance to cover operating costs. 
of500 miles. The decision, however,
home rather than by a federal identified, said the decision was final 
Notre Dame Student Union Director Rich Coppola also viewed is designed to shield Saudi Arabia
government that imposes require­except that Congress had n4ilt yet"Chautauqua's" opening receipts as "Inconclusive because of the ments that often seem blind to against any potential threat from the been notified. Ultimately, under the week(·nd" hut he believes ND-SMC students must "become ac­regional differences. Soviet Union, Iraq or South Yemen.' 
law, Congress would have to give its customed to the idea of the Coffeehouse." 
American technicians and air
So, despite the fact that the na­approval to carry out the i\WACs Eddie Shaw and the "Wolf' Gang (formerly the "Howlin' Wolf' force personnel, in civilian clothes,
tion's governors recen~y met with sale. 
Band) of the Chicago Blues tradition, along with Ellen Mcllwaine, a would be assigned to Saudi Arabia to
Reagan and told him they remain 
The still-secret agreement w.th
folk·blucs jazz guitarist who has performed with the Doobie Brothers help maintain support and operate
convinced the federal government 
Egypt to build up Ra~ Banas, near theand Bruce Springsteen, will appear at the Coffeehouse Friday and the complicated radar planes, called
should pick up all the costs of tradi­
Red Sea, at an estimated cdst of J ISaturday, March 27-28. Duke Tumatoc and the All-Star Frogs will ap· A WACs -for airborne warning and
tional welfare programs, the presi­
billion would also provide American t pear April I, and the Jump In The Saddle Band is scheduled for May control. It was not clear whether
dent's budget moves in the opposite 
access to the improved facility. This ' 
direction. some actually would be aboard the "These three weekends will be used to judge the future develop­
1·.2. 
jets, but the sources, asking not to be adds to the ring of military installa­ment of the Coffeehouse," Coppola said. Possible additions to the 
For the Pentagon, the increases 
identified, said that was very likely tions in Kenya, Oman and Somalia facility would consist of Phases II-IV (the Coffeehouse is now in Pha~e 
arc almost as dramatic as the 
because of their high sophistication. the United States began to construct I), adding such items as tables, chairs, booths, a soda fountain, coffee 
decreases elsewhere. Reagan 
The American presence is under former President Jimmy Car­
proposed cutting $48.6 billion from 
regarded as a safeguard against use ter after the Iranian revolution andmachine and popcorn popper. Currently, Coppola predicts a "pretty 
a broad range ofprograms in the Fis­
of the planes in an Arab/Israeli con-the Soviet thrust into Afghanistan.
frt't' and loose atmosphere will continue." 
cal 1982 budget submitted to 

NewsBrieb 
by The Observer and The Auociated Press 
The fire depa.rtnlent'sconclusion that an electrical malfunction caused the MGM Grand Hotel fire in las Vegas reportedly is being challenged by hotel officials. The Las Vegas Sun said in a copyright story Tuesday that MGM hotels chairman Fred Benninger threatened to go to federal court in an effort to get copies o reports on the Nov. 21 fire, which killed 84 people. The Sun said Benninger wrote the Clark County Fire Department last week expressing reservations about "the soundness ofyour preliminary findings." Ben­ninger reportedly said the hotel's own investigators found no evidence that a short circuit was to blame. County Fire Chief Roy Parrish said the department would stand by its conclusion that the fire was electrical in nature. -AP. 
Fares on the South Shore Railroad could jump 
drasticallly on April 7 under a plan filed with three regulatory agencies. The fare increase is being considered by the Indiana Public Service Commission, the Illinois Commerce Commission and the In­terstate Commerce Commission, South Shore president A.W. Dudley said Tuesday. Although no hearing dates have been scheduled, public hearings are expected before April 9, authorities said. The railroad's last fare increase was granted in 1971. The increase already has received the blessing of the Northern Indiana Commuter Transpora­tion District and the lllinois Regional Transportation Authoritiy. Both oversee operations of the bi-state railroad. The largest increases would be levied against one-way tickets on South Shore's eastern end, including pick-up points in Michigan City and South Bend, Dudley said. Under the proposed rates, one-way tickets from South Bend to Chicago would increase from $3.10 to SS.SO; Michigan City to Chicago, 52.40 to S4; Gary to Chicago, $1.70 to S2.75; and Hammond to Chicago, Sl.SO to 52.25. -AP. 
Two menwho police said tripped an alarm and were caught redhanded with $100,000 worth of jewelry in a suburban lombard store have been charged with burglary. Police said Ronald Kilner, 20, who told them he was studying to become a lawyer at Northeastern Illinois University, also was charged with attempted bribery. He al­lt:gedly offered a lombard officer $10,000 to free him and his partner, Peter Pulice, 21, ofChicago. Investigators said the two men allegedly broke a skylight on the roofofthe Carson Pirie Scott & co. department store in a shopping plaza at 2 a.m. yesterday and dropped a rope down. After climbing down into the store, they stole a suitcase and filled it with jewelry, police said. But they tripped an alarm and within minutes police arrived. Authorities said they were arrested in the jewelry department with various types of jewelry in their possession. 
-AP. 

Cornelius, a rare black rhinoceros who became the symbol ofa Canadian political party, joined the. San Diego Zoo yesterday. The 600-pound rhino was being flown to San Diego in the baggage com­partment of an Air Canada jetliner. The first rhinoceros born in Canada, Cornelius served as the symbol of that country's Rhinoceros Party-Canada's fourth-largest party. last fall, that party nominated a hobo named Adam Nobody for president and used the slogan: "nobody for president and everybody for vice." Cornelius was ob­tained in a trade for a 7-year-old female giraffe. -AP. 
Ellen Bouchard Ryan, associate professor of psyc­hology, has been reappointed chairman of the University of Notre Dame's Department of Psychology it was announced by Dr. Timothy O'Meara, provost. Ms. Ryan also has been granted a leave of absence for the next academic year and Thomas l. Whitman, an associate professor of psychology who has been on the Notre Dame faculty since 1967, will be acting chairman during her assence. Ryan's renewe,d appointment is for a period of three years, starting Sept. l, 1981. Sne has been a member ofthe Notre Dame faculty for 11 years 
and psychology chairman the past three years. During her sabbatical year she will research the "determinants of the cognitive conse­quences of childhood bilingualism." An authoriy on language and psychology, Ms. Ryan has published extensively In that area. Her most recent publications concern the effectsofspeech style on the reaction of listeners. She received her bachelor's and master's degrees from Brown Universiy in Pmvidence, Rhode Island and her Ph.D. in psyc· holinguistics from the University of Michigan in 1970. She also has worked to develop model bilingual education programs for Por­tuguese children in Rhode Island and for French children in northern 
Maine. -The Observer 

Soft-rock star Christopher Cross joked yes­
terday that it feels "pretty dangerous" to have edged out Frank Sinatra for a Grammy award, but "I'm certainly not gonna complain." The singer and composer joined Texas state Rep. Ron Wilson, D-Houston, and state Sen. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, at a state Capitol news con­ference announcing "Christopher Cross Day" for March 26. Cross, an Austin resident, won five Grammy awards with his debut album, "Christopher Cross," including best song of the year, album of the year, record of the year, best arrangement, and best new artist. Cross said his second album -tentatively titled "Deal 'Em Again" -is al­ready in the works, and that his backup vocalists will be "people you've heard of," including perhaps fellow Texan Don Henley of the rock group, the Eagles. His Warner Bros. contract is "unfortunately (written) in blood" and won't be renegotiated soon, he said. -AP. 
Sunny, breezy and warmer today. Highs in the 
upper 40s to around SO. Cloudy tonight and tomorrow with a slight 
chance ofsnow flurries. Turning colder. lows in the mid to upper 20s. 
Highs in the mid to upper 30s. -AP. 
Thursday, March 12, 1981 -page 2 
Some: final words • • • 
As spring break approaches, a year inObserver time Is coming to a close. A new year will begin as a new editorial board takes over in a couple of weeks, and so we have decided to purge our notebook of some remaining notes and observations. Some final com­ments from a final Inside column.... 
President Reagan has completed his budget cuts, and they total up to over 548 billion. Overall, these cuts are highly laudable as Reagan works to pare down the federal deficit, but not everyone is happy, and not everyone is cooperating. Some are charging that the cuts are not substantial enough and not in the right places to really affect inflation. This may be true, but at least Reagan has installed immediate expectations of "less," and he is making a sincere effort to restrain the expansion ofthe g1uttonous federal bureaucrats. 
Liberals are not cooperating willingly, more as a mat­ter ofpride than anything. else apparently. All but one of the Senate committee chairmen requested sizable budget increases, even though we are all familiar with the widespread overbudgeting which occurs in the bureaucracy. Additionally, congressmen in both houses, ofboth parties, are taking an "everyone else but me" attitude toward specific budget cuts as they affect each person's constituency. 
A good example of this is Minority Leader Robert 
Byrd, who has been championing the cause of mine 
workers protesting in D.C. this week, because Reagan 
has targeted federal black lung assistance as a potential 
cut. logically, it should be the mine owners who are 
protesting, because the responsibility for this disability 
pension should be shifted to their shoulders. Perhaps 
Byrd should be directing his energies towards legisla­
tion in this area, rather than servicing the most vocal of 
his West Virginia constituents. 
The candidates who screamed for budget slashing (and those like Byrd, who promised to cooperate) are now having to respond to reductions in their own dis­trict/state's federal funds, transportation, even jobs. Voters can make these cuts politically injurious, and it will be interesting to see if the new conservatives will sacrifice their own well-being for the good of the program. It doesn't seem likely, but let's at least wait and give them a chance.... 
While we're on our favorite subject, Reagan, it should be noted that no small number ofseniors are expressing serious dismay over his selection as commencement speaker. The obvious ideological contradictions involv­ing Fr. Hesburgh, Notre Dame and Reagan (such as Reagan's Right to life stand and his determination to build enough warheads to disintegrate the Eurasian landmass) are reason enough to be upset. Add to that the pure publicity stunt ofbringing in Pat O'Brien, and a circus atmosphere is lent to a supposedly solemn occa­sion. A well-organized student protest would hold Fr. Hesburgh publicly accountable fo these apparent hypocrisies, and his response to the threat of an al­ternative graduation ceremony would be most interest­ingindeed.... 
locally, Paul Riehle was scheduled to convene the Campus Ufe Council for the first time last night. He will bring to it two proposals from the Student Senate regarding the housing lottery which Riehle obviously feels is already decided upon. One proposal calls for a faculty study of the Northeast Neighborhood, and should be passed immediately. The other proposal calls 


for coed living in the Pasquerilla dorms, and should be 
passed yesterday. It won't be. 
Although the top floors of each new dorm will go 
unoccupied next year, which Riehle estimates will cost 
the University $282,400, the Administration will no 
doubt reject the plan, if only because they have already 
established room pick procedures for next year. They 
will also argue that the proposal was hastily composed 
(which doesn't matter), and didn't take the time to gat­
her all the "input" (there's that word again) from the 
students. It doesn't matter ofcourse that at least three­
fourths ofthe students here favor coed living, and don't 
need to be asked again by their Senate representative. 
We hope we're wrong, but don't count on it.... 
The Chicago Tribune compiled an interesting Mid· west edition Tuesday morning. The exact same fol­lowup story and photo on the Steven Judy execution appeared on both page three and page six. A front-page story on El Salvador did not continue on page twelve, or anywhere for that matter. The page one feature on O'Hare Airport was continued, not on page three but the back page of the business section. And you thought The Observer was the only one that made mistakes.... 
The Inside column was a new concept this year, and it will be continued next year as well. The original idea was not that pompous news editors would spout off their ideological idiosyncrasies, but that we provide inside information or insights that we have gained by virtue ofbeing at the center ofcampus communication. We did provide interesting or confidential information at times throughout the year, and didn't have to worry about pressure from the Administration because they 
never read it. I had a good time writing it, and getting 
blasted regularly on the editorial page, though it is dif­
ficult to come up with something every week (witness 
this). This is my last one, and I hope my successors lm· 
prove on the basic standards we have tried to achieve 
thus far. Good luck.... 

Observer Notes--­
... 
As a public service, Tbe Observer publishes short press releases, better known as blurbs, submitted by campus and local organizations. All blurbs must be 
turned in no later than I p.m. ofthe afternoon prior to publication, and they must be typed, double-spaced, or they will not be accepted. Blurbs, unfortunately, are not guaranteed publication, and are run only on a space-available priority system as designated by the news editors. We remind that The Observer alone should not be relied upon to publicize events -to ensure some mention ofyour event, submit a separate 
entry to the Campus section of the paper. 
~---_________.:::::..-::::~:::::: r-'fhe_Qbseryer_ 
Design Editor ............................. Mike Monk Design Assistants ......................... Patty Fox 
Kathy Crossett Layout Staff............................... Klm Parent Typesetter ......................,........ Bl'uce Oakley News Editor ........................... Tom jackman Copy Editor .............................. F'am Degnan Sports Copy Editor .............. Beth Huffman Supplement Layout............ Beth Huffman 
David E. Wood 
Paul Mullaney 
Frank LaGrotla Typist .......................................... Cindy jones ND Day Editor ...................... Dan Gonzales Ad Design......................... Woody &}.,anne Pbotograpber ............................ John Macor 
The Dbaervtr (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday tl'lrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Db11rver Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box 01. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
The Obstrvtf' Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

OFF CAMPUS STUDENTS Ill 
PROTECT YOUR VALUABLES/II 



0.C. Storage Stepan Center 
Wed. &Thurs. 5:00-7:00pm 
Sponsored by Student Government 

-~~-~~-------------------------·------­
-------.---------­
The Observer Thursday, March 12, 1981 -page 3 

Addresses Parliament 
Reagan ends Canadian visit 
01TAW A ( AP) President Reagan ended a two-day visit to Canada with a promise yesterday to revitalize the United States' economy, regain the respect of its allies and oppose "Soviet adven­
turism around the Earth." 
In a televised speech before the 
Canadian Parliament, the president 
confessed that "the United States in 
the last few years has not been as 
solid and stable an ally and trading 
partner as It should be." 
But he said his "near· 
revolutionary" economic program, 
submitted Tuesday to Congress, is 
intended not only to solve domestic 
problems but "to restore the con· 
fidence of our friends and allies in 
what we are doing." 
fie told Prime Minister Pierre El· 
liott Trudeau and his other Canadian 
hosts that a stimulated U.S. economy 
will produce millions of new jobs, 
many ofthem in Canada. 
The president's speech to Parlia­
ment, interrupted repeatedly by ap­
.CLC 

continuedfrom page I 
crime situation, the disturbances created by the students, relations between students and their neigh­bors, and University involvement in the situation. 
The committee, whose members will be appointed at the next CI.C meeting, will study and discuss these areas. The committee will con­sist of students, landlords, members of the Northeast Neighborhood Council, and University faculty nH'mhers. 
l'r. Van Wolvlear authorized the committee 10 give it validity. Riehle hoped that this might motivate com­mittee. members to realize that their work would have a "seriousness of purpose." 
Kdlcy stated that a faculty person "vitally Interested in the off-campus problem" would be ideal as chair­man and also serve to further legilimize the committee. 
Tht· relations between the stu­dents and their neighbors were con­sidered to he the most neglected issue. Dean Roemer reported tha he has already received three letters from neighborhood residents com­plaining about student disturbances. In a separate incident, students reportedly tore down the front porch ofa house. 
Fr. Mario Pedi, rector of St. Ed­ward's llall, said that an action such as the Senior Death March is detrimental to relations In the nelg­horhood. lit· expressed disappoint­ment about the lack ofreaction from the Student Government. 
Gene Bernstein, assistant profes­sor of English, suggested tha the council study other neighborhoods for possible student use. Sr. Patricia Dowd, Breen-Philips Hall rector, stated that the University would be criticized if it did not attempt social action in the Northeast Neighbor­hood. Kelley added that there would always be students living in the area because of the convenience and the number of students living off 
campus. 
plause, climaxed a visit in which both governments openly ack­nowledged their diJfcrences but expressed a common determination to find solutions. 
On his return to the White House yesterday afternoon, the president said, "It was a very fine meeting, real­ly. I think we established the basis for further working together. We were very pleased and I think they were, too. A very heart-warming ex­perience." 
Trudeau said that despite "deep disappointment" over U.S. withdrawal ofan East Coast fisheries treaty governing conservation and division offish stocks, the neighbor­ing nations had assured each other "there will be no fish war." 
The joint willingness to keep trying to reach some sort of agree­ment on the fishing issue, which has taken on national political sig­nificance in Canada, seemed sym­bolic of Reagan's brief visit to the Canadian capital. The problem 

wasn't solved, but both sides 
seemed pleased they could still talk 
about it. 
A variety ofother major disputes, involving environmental matters, energy policy and foreign affairs, came up during the visit, but no breakthroughs had been expected and none was announced. 
In his Parliament speech, Reagan stumbled over his text and inadver­tently dropped a reference to their problems, but the White House said he stood by the material he had skipped. 
"We have never hidden our disputes," he had intended to say, "but we have always found room for their resolution. The issues upon which we still seek agreement should therefore proceed down the same path of cooperation, negotia­tion and mutual understanding." 
Reagan aide Mike Deaver said Reagan stumbled over a portion of the text he had edited by hand and then could not read. 
"'Forecasf, wins Nazz competition 
The $1 50 first prize in the received third prize of $100. l9fll Nazz Music Competition, The group Next received held last Friday, went to the band fourth prize of $75. Its members "Forecast," whose members in­include Dan Brauwciler, Steve clude Don Ginocchio, Pat MacK­Dressel, Dan Ellis, Mike Hunkler, rell, Paul Bertolini, Michael and Mike Tranel. Franken, Keith Winking, and Mic­
hael O'Connor, Nazz Director Fifth prize, 550, went to the Jim Hoffer announced. group Waiting for Now, whose The second prize of $125 went members arc Paul Partridge, to Michael Daly and Tom (Nicky) Steve LeDoux, Bill Gurgin, Tim 
Kornick. Keyes, Scott O'Grady, and Joe Paul Kosidowski, on piano, Meehan. 




Heppen reviews roo'ffl pick selection process 
By PAUL MCGINN ferty, defends the GPA system. News Staff "Our policy is that every year when we have the hall elections, we 
Director of Housing Fr. Michael hold a vote through the hall council. Heppen stated yesterday that no It was decided that with the GPA decisions concl·rning the possibility there's no surprises." of an off-campus lottery system will Sixty-eight percent of Grace resi­be made probably until early April. dents voted in favor of the current Fr. Heppen did, however, voice his system, while 32 percent voted for a views on the room selection process lottery. of the individual dormitories on 
campus. The department's proposed lot­tery program, which will be stan­

IHURSQAY NI~HT FILM SER!E~ 
The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie Dlr. by 
Luis Bunuel (France) 1972 The old master Is at It again, tweaking the nose of his favorite targets: class privilege, social stuffiness, linear nar­rative. A surreal social comedy full of innuendo and black 
WEEKEND 

humor, light as a souffle, rich as a lobster. With Fernando 

RETREAT

Rey and Stephana Audran. Thursday, March 12 

PROGRAM

THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 
7:30 pm admission $1.0 
OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 

dard in nearly every dorm on 

Come follow me 

campus, "responds to the needs of the greatest number ofstudents." 
&. I will give you 

Present policies are "honest, fair, and show the greatest amount of 

rest 
concern for the individual." 


relaxation
Offering comments on the room selection systems of Grace and 
prayer~iiiiiiiiii;;;m;.;,;~
Pangborn, which det(:rmlne rooms by grade point average, Fr. Heppen stated, "I'm opposed to the GPA. I do not think it's a fair system." Yet Fr. Heppen made it clear that "I'm not going to force my system (lottery) on them." 
Another position, taken by outgo­ing Grace Hall President Paul Raf-



Students explore the wonders ofcomputers in Chern Lab. (photo byjohn Macor) 
COPP MUSIC CENTER INC 
430 N. Main So. Bend 233-1838 Take 31 South, turn right one block past Memorial Hospital 
eGuitars • Harmonicas eMetronomes eBanjos • Accessories eLessons eRecordersesheet musiceRepairs 


IOo/o off anything with this 


I, , , 
ad...no 1m1t. 
illTI' IPIDIP~ANR rnrm~••• 
one day only rGII =&Y ~ l!liUIG!fl &4\ ~~®rn IF®rnxYJNL ~ JJ3YQ])~ 
~ will be sold again Find somebody over break Don•t miss the celebration ~ 11:30-1:00 
~ LaFodune and LeMons SEOOliD SEMESTER 



WEEKEND BETBEATS 
March 27-29 "Change and Rebirth: A Feminine Perspective" 
Sr. Judith Ann Beattie Ms. Mary Ann Roemer 
April 3 -S "Is There Life After Commencement?" 
rr. Joe Carey Sr. Pat Dowd 
MAKE RESERVATIONS BEFORE SPI.IIIG BI.EAI AT: CAMPUS MIRISTI.Y LIBRARY 8&38 
sponsored by the ND-SMC 


BADIII 4392 
~~OMMUNICATION &THEATR~~ 
The Observer Thursday, March 12, 1981 -page 4 
OAS mediation 






El Salvador rejects offer 

SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP) 
The government yesterday rejected an offer by the Organiza­tion of American States to mediate a political settlement between El Sal­vador's civilian/military junta and the leftist-dominated opposition, Foreign Ministry sources said. 
In the capital and the countryside the guerrilla war continued. 
In Geneva, the United Nations Human Rights Commission called for the appointment ofa special rep­resentative to probe "grave viola­tions of human rights and fundamental freedoms reported in El Salvador." 
The Reagan administration has vowed to help prevent the spread of communist influence in Central America and has increased military aid to this nation of 4. 5 million people. Fifty U.S. advisers are here helping train Salvadoran troops. 

COLillv1BIA UNIVERSITY in the City of New York 

The Summer Session of Columbia University offers students the opportunity to study at the most distinguished educational institution in Americas most cosmopolitan city. The rigorous and challenging curriculum, distinguished faculty, outstanding research facilities, and New York City itself combine to stimulate the individual and support the student's course of study. 
Daytime and evening graduate and undergraduate courses for academic credit will be given by more than forty arts 
and sciences departments and professional schools. Among these are• Foreign Languages. Arabic, Aramaic, Armenian, Chinese, French, German, Greek, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Latin, Russian, Spanish, and Yiddish. Focus on Design. An intensive introduction to the design professions including architecture, historic preservation, and urban design. Summmer Theatre Program. A series of courses and workshops in repertory theatre, acting, playwriting, and production techniques, taught with the assistanco of guest artists. A fully-mounted production of a play by Eugene O'Neill. Study Abroad Programs. French language, art history, and philosophy in Paris; Italian language and art history in Florence. Additional Courses. Students may choose from courses in a variety of areas including anatomy, anthropology, architecture and planning, art history, biochemistry, biology, general and organic chemistry, computer science, economics, engineering, English and comparative literature, film, geology, history, international affairs, journalism, mathematics, music, physics, physiology, psychology, and creative writing. 
The summer student body is a select group of highly motivated men and women, two-thirds of whom attend Columbia during the academic year. College and university students are encouraged to apply for admission. Columbias 32-acre Manhattan setting i~ generally regarded as one of Americas most handsome urban campuses. All the resources of the University are at the disposal of summer students, including the extensive library collection, computer resources, complete recreational facilities, social and cultural activities, and residence halls. 
First Session, May 18-June 26 Second Session, July 6-August 14 plus special three-week, eight-week, and ten-week sessions 
25

Send i981 Summer Session bulletin and application to address below. \' 
I am especially interested in ________________________________ 
Mr./Ms.___________________________________ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City ______________State ______________Zip _____ 
Send to, Summer Session, 102C Low Library, Columbia University, New York, N.Y. 10027 
SUMMER SESSION 1981. 
Washington has charged the Soviet Union, Cuba and Nicaragua with supporting Marxist insurrection here. 
One of the diplomatic sources here showed reporters an official message to the OAS that said "the revolutionary government of El Sal­vador does not desire the interven­tion ofthe Organization ofAmerican States in the search for a solution to the internal problems in El Sal­vador." 
T\)e message called OAS media­tion here "completely unacceptable." 
The 28-member organization offi­cially offered to mediate last week at the suggestion of Costa Rican Presi­dent Rodrigo Carazo. 
Junta President Jose Napoleon Du I rte has said he is willing to meet with members of Socialist Interna­tional to discuss a political solution, but the has been no indication where or when such a meeting would be held. 
The U.N. commission called for the apointment of a special repre­
sentative  by  a  29/I  vote.  Eleven  
countries,  including  the  United  
States, abstained.  

U.S. delegate Richard Shifter said 
the abstention was prompted by a reference in the adopted text to a 
U.N. General Assembly resolution last fall urging "governments to refrain from the supply of arms and other military assistance." He said the language was unclear; 
Fighting was reported yesterday in San Nicolas Lempa, 20 miles north of the capital, the army said, adding that a counter-insurgency operation began in the area four days ago. 
A military source said there were dead and wounded, but there were no details. 
Defense Minister Col. Jose Guil­lrmo Garcia said the army began a massive search and destoy operation Tuesday in Morazon, I00 miles east ofthe capital. 
Military sources said I,OOO troops were pressed into the operation. 
In Chalatenango, 30 miles north­east of here, I9 unidentified bodies were found along a highway outside oftown, the military said. 
Around the capital, three army convoys were ambushed, but no in­juries were reported, and shootouts between guerrillas and the military were reported in three suburbs during the morning hours. No casualities were reported. 

Pakistani hijackers announce deadline 
DAMASCUS, Syria (AP) -The fathers oftwo ofthree hijackers hol­ding a Pakistani jet-liner with more than 100 hostages aboard flew here 
from  Pakistan  yesterday  to  plead  
with  the  youths  to  free  their  
captives, officials said.  

The hijackers meanwhile ex­tended to 11 a.m. EST today a deadline to blow up the plane and all aboard unless the Pakistani military government frees political prisoners. 
Syrian Foreign Minister Abdul Halim Khaddam said the hostages, who include three Americans and two U.S. resident aliens, were all "physically well but psychologically tired" from the I 0-day-old ordeal, history's second longest hijack drama. Palestinian guerrillas held I2 Israelis hostage for five weeks aboard an Israeli jetliner they hijacked to Algiers in 1968. 
Officials in Karachi, Pakistan, said the fathers ofSalamullah Khan Tippu and Abdul Nasir Khan flew to Damascus via Jidda, Saudi Arabia. Pakistani authorities were seeking the parents of the third hijacker, Ar­sad Butt. Tippu has been identified as the leader ofthe hijackers. 
One report said a brother of one of the hijackers also flew to Damascus. Another unconfirmed report was that two of the hijackers were brothers. 
The fathers flying to Damascus had been arrested after their sons went into hiding following a Feb. 26 clash at Kabrachi University in which a student was killed, Pakistani officials said. The hijackers are mem­bers ofa dissident group named after Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, former president who was hanged in 1979. 
Pakistani authorities said that 3C detainees whose names appeared on a Jist of 55 persons whose freedom was demanded by the hijacke~s were ready to fly to Damascus as soon as a settlement was reached for the release of the hostages. The number of hostages was estimated variously at 102-122. 
A Syrian government spokesman said the hijackers extended the blow-up deadline from 5 a.m., EST, Wednesday to 11 a.m. EST today at the insistance of negotiators headed by Brig. Gen. Mohammed Kholi, President Hafez Assad's top security aide. 
The Syrians then suspended the negotiations until the arrival late in the day of Pakistan's ambassador to Syria, Sarfaraz Khan from an inter­rupted vacation in Pakistan. Airport sources said he went to the control tower to talk to the hijackers by radio. 

The hijackers seized the Pakistan International Airline Boeing 720 on a domestic flight and flew to Kabul, Afghanstan, and then to Damascus. First they demanded that 92 politi­cal opponents of President Mohammed Zia u!Haq' authoritarian military rule be freed. But Pakistan offered to release only 15 political prisoners held for minor offenses in addition to five relatives of the sky­jackers. 
Angered by the offer, the hijackers last Friday picked a Pakistani diplomat from among the hostages, shot him and threw him out of the plane at Kabul airport, officials said. He died in an Afghan hospital later in the day. 
SMCoffers European study 
Saint Mary's College will sponsor study tour programs in London and Rome during the summer of 1981. Designed for the student of any age ·or occupation, the programs provide an opportunity to travel in Europe while gaining historical in­sights into political issues, social structures and current economic challenges. 
The study tour program in Lon­don will be held May 20-June 19 and will combine courses and travel throughout Ireland, Scotland, Lon­don and Paris. 
The Rome Program, scheduled for June I 5 through July 14, combines organized travel throughout France, Italy, Germany and Switzerland. 
For more information contact An­thony R. Black, Department of His­tory, Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, IN. 46556 or phone (219) 284-4948. 

~-~-~--------­
The Observer Thursday, March 12, 1981 -page 5 Retirement program 
Experts suggest changes 

WASHINGTON (AP) The chairman ofthe Senate Budget Com­mittee and Congress' top economist suggested surgery yesterday on an­nual cost-of-living increases in Social Security benefits. 
Although President Reagan has not recommended such a move, Sen. Peter Domenici, R-N.M., said he doubted the president "could afford to be critical" if Congress voted changes in Social Security cost-of­living increases as part of a package ofspending cuts. 
Changes such as those suggested would affect I 0 million people or more a year and could cut spending by more than S3 billion in I982 alone. 
Domenici and Dr. Alice Rivlin, head of the Congressiona Budget Office, both suggested changes in the governmnt's basic retirement program as Democrats on the House Budget Committee sharply chal­lenged lcnged the administration's rosy forecasts of lower inflation and interest rates ad higher growth. 
This endless walkway behind O'Shaughnessy Hall mirrors the long duys ofMurch prior to spring break. (photo Uyjohn Macor) The administration says its 
package of spending and tax cuts will help lower inflation to about I I percent this year, slightly over 8 per­cent in 1982 and about 6 percent in 1983. It also predicts rapid decline ofinterest rates and sharp economic growth next year. 
"We are not going to put out a budget bas~d on mirrors and magic. We are not going to put out a budget based on a.~sumptions which six months or a year from now will be held up to ridicule," Rep. James 
Jones, D/Okla., the panel's chair­man, told Murray Weidenbaum, chairman of the president's Counil on Economic Advisers. 

Jones said Americans "will rise up in anger" if they discover they have been deceived by the president's rosy projections of economic revitalization. 
At a hearing one day after Reagan unveiled his revised 1982 budget of 1695.3 billion, including a deficit of $45 billion, Wcidenbaum said the budget "is as honest and accurate" as possible. 
But across the capital, Rivlin told Senate budget writers Congress should approve more than the 148.6 billion in spending cuts that Reagan is recomending so spending can be kept under control ifthe president's "optimistic" forecasts about infla­tion, interest rates and economic growth go unmet. 

The consequences of being wrong "are troubling," Rivlin said. 
"Higher inflation, higher interest rates and higher unemployment would all work to produce more federal spending and larger hudgt·t d<.·ficits." 
"To avoid thl' risk of heing wrong on the outlook for inflation, the committee might want to consider alternative spending cuts that would redu<-·e the sensitivity of the federal budget to inflation, or to cut more deeply than proposed by the ad­ministration." 
She said a "major omission" in te administration's proposal is a lack of change in the adjusting for inflation of Social Security and other federal retire"'lcnt plans. 
Sperm banks becoming more common 
By ASSOCIATED PRESS Sperm banks -not yet so common as the comer pharmacy -are starting to move from the medical laboratory to the storefront, buying sperm from outside donors and selllng it to infertile couples. The San Fernando Valley's first sperm bank has just opened, an Encino concern called Valley Cryobank. And a local physician who's been In the business of storing human sperm at ultra· cold temperaures for four years says business Is booming. "We're busier than ever, and I think that's partly due to ln­<.·reased social acceptance and in­creased social awareness," said Dr. Cappy Rothman, a Century City androloglst -a doctor who specializes in treating infertile men. Sperm banks hit the headlines recently when Robert Graham announced that his repository for Germinal Choice in Escondido was seeking sperm from Nobel Prize winners to impregnate women with high IQs and there­by produce offspring of superior Intelligence. 
.Reagan 
continued.from page 1 
back toward economic sanity" Is the proposal for a three-year, 30 percent cut in tax rates. That plan is ques­tioned by many In Congress, Includ­Ing Republicans, and is the portion of the Reagan program given the least chance for approval. 
Cutting government spending Is a goal with almost universal support In Wa.o;hington. 
But for most Democrats and some Republicans, budget-cutting is an in­terim necessity dictated by economic conditions. They look ahead to a time when economic con­ditions will permit a restoration of the federal government's role in helping Individuals and com­munities deal with problems such as mass transit, housing or medical 
care. 
It Is a view in sharp contrast to •· Reagan belief that the federal government Is the problem. 
In Poland 
Beatings raise new tension 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) -A reported beating offour high school students by an anti-union squad raised new tensions in Poland yes­terday. The Reagan administration said in Washington, meanwhile, that it was "quite concerned" about forthcoming Soviet bloc maneuvers in and around Poland although there was no sign of an imminent Soviet invasion or show offorce. 
A spokesman for the Solidarity union chapter in Radom, 50 miles south ofWarsaw and long a centerof labor agitation, said the four stu­dents were reportedly beaten by four men who were tearing down Solidarity posters. 
He said the students recognized one of the four a.~ a local policeman and added that the union had ap­pealed to the police to purge its ranks ofsuch members. He said 300 parents, pupils and teachers were expected to meet later ncar Radom, which has been on strike alert since Monday over broad union demands for an end to alleged "oppression" of members. 
In Washington, State Department spokesman William Dyess said the key to the Soviet bloc maneuvers later this month is the level oftroops [hat might participate. He said the United States is not yet In a position to judge how many that might be. The exercises were announced Tuesday by Moscow and Warsaw. 
The Soviet Union is committed under the Helsinki accords to give advance notice of all military maneuvers involving 25,000 troops 
Thank ln1 ovena to 

ST. JUDE 0 Holy St. Jude, Apostle and Martyr, great in virtue and rich in mirades, near Kinsman of Je11us Christ, faithful intercessor of all who involte your special patronage in time of need, to you I have recourse from the depth of my heart and humbly beg to whom God has given such great power, to come to my assistance. Help me in my present and urgent petition. In return I promase to make your name known and cause you to be invoked. Say three Our fathers, three Hail Marys and Glorias. for nine consecutive day.. Publication mu!lt be promised. St. Jude pray for us and all who invoke your aid. Amen. This Novena has never been known to fail, I have had my request granted. C.p. 
'or more. missal of local officials responsible Dyess said notification is ex­for attacks on workers in 1976 and pected ifthe exercises pass that size. for releae of political prisoners, the 
"Given the tense situation in and Solidarity spokesma said. around Poland we are watching In a telephone interview, the developments there very closely," spokesman said representatives Dyess said. A threat ofSoviet military from nearly 340 factories in the 
intervention has hung over Poland region would meet today to endorse since late last fall. a list of 17 demands, many ofwhich 
Radom was the site of major appeared aimed at settling old worker riots in 1976 over meat grudges. The union was to draft price increases. Former Communist strike plans ifthe government failed Party leader Edward Gierek res­to negotiate a settlement, he said. cinded the increases but not before angry workers burned the local parry headquarters. 
In the wake of the riots, dissident 
Buy

intellectuals formed the Comrr.ittee for Social Self-Defense to help ar­rested workers, forging a link be­

Observer 

tween intellectuals and workers that had not existed before. 
Classifieds 

The union now is asking for dis-~~~~"'~!Ui~~~~"'~Q~ 
SUMMER STORAGE SPAOE 

Special discount for BDlSMC students Security Patrol Ohecks 


259-033& 

SILl LOCK S'!ORAGI OF MCKIBLIY 816 Eut McKinley Mishawaka 
*PHOTOGRAPHERS* 
THE OBSERVER is organizing next year's photo staff (pcti4 pe6ifiM) lAP PLICA TIONS -name and phone -work and photo experience -some example ofprevious work -drop off at 3rd floor LaFortune b_y 3/30 ALL PRESENT PHOTGRAPHERS MUST REAPPLY An_y questions call John at 1715 or 3106 
From ND CIRCLE 
To 

CHICAGO O'HARE 


EXPRESSI 
oepts 6:15am. Circle 11:20 am. 2:50pm. 
Arrives 8:15am. O'Hare 1:20 p.m. 4:50p.m. 
To Your lndividuol Airlme Gote Return (Mar. 22, 23) oepts 12:15 pn1. O'Hare 4:45 p.m. 
8:00p.m. 

(Bo Jrd Lower Level C<JrsCJn·s ~ircle Restouronl) 
S200ne Way $38 round trip 
Buy Your Ticket From Your Driver 


Editorials Thursday, March 12, 1981 -page 6  

P.O.BoxQ  
delay play for the same reason." grapes. nursing her child, hardly a titillat­Berkmoes does mention the According to ex-coach and In my estimation, the thing that ing image designed to arouse lust Manson-gang murder· of NBC commentator McGuire, this really bothers Digger is tlhat he is and desire. I hope it is now es­Polanski's wife Sharon Tate, butNotre Dame: strategy (which could be con­being outcoached from the broad­tablished that Tess is not a soap he does not mention that the film strued as shady and unethical) of cast booth. Well, hell, AI could do opera, nor is it an R-rated romp in Tess is dedicated "to Sharon."a perfect place? having his players illegally and that in his sleep. the English countryside.. Perhaps Polanski intended the deliberately misuse the rules was Mr. Ver Berkmoes devoted film as a tribute to his wife, who, "smart" coaching. In his Mary Susan Prescott two lengthy paragraphs of his like Tess, was a victim. re.view to a step-by-step (exceptDear Editor, negative criticism of the coaches the ending, of course) plotAw, you poor babies! Your in action, he suggested on nation­Maureen Whalen Miller description. This is a pattern thatfootball team is on the tube four al TV that they also should use has been demonstrated in pre­times in the fall. Your hoops such strategy. Ver Berkmoes' vious reviews as well. For thosesquad gets on TV three times. There is no place in college bas­who have read Hardy's novel, SuggestedAnd then, just because AI ketball for this type of coaching or misguided this detailed summary is certainlyMcGuire can't say enough good game broadcasting. For AI not necessary. For those who see censorshipthings about Notre Dame-boo McGuire to boast of his "smart" evaluation the film without previoushoo! unethical tactics is a slap in the knowledge of the events which amusingOh, but when Digger does one face of college basketball across take place, the narrative structureplay-by-play? Yessir, great job the country. Because ex-coach Phelps! That Digger can't do any­McGuire provided color for the is easy enough to decipher with­Dear Editor, thing wrong. 1980-81 season again, our family out a guidebook. In short, simplyI am compelled to write this let­Dear Editor, Why did The Observer com­did not watch NCAA College reviewing the plot does notter in defense of the film Tess, In response to Bob Riley's plain about McGuire and Packer Basketball on NBC because of review the film.which was reviewed recently by "open minded" views encourag­instead of the Daily Terrapin at the example he set for our youth. It seems fashionable now to"Features Critic" Ryan Ver ing censorship of Student Union Maryland? Do you suppose I am pleased that CBS will be mention Roman Polanski's pastBerkmoes. Although Mr. Ver sponsored movies such as 10: there'd be any fuss if AI was at broadcasting NCAA College Bas­misfortunes without discussingBerkmoes seemed to give the film Mr. Riley, we wll not ask what NO 13 years? ketball next season, and hope that his past films. Tess is an evenan overall good rating, and right you have to tell us what And would there be any chance it will use better taste in its com­more interesting film when con­recommended it as "well worth movies we should and should not that the spoiled Irish used their mentary of the games. sidered along with his previousseeing," I feel that his evaluation watch at Notre Dame. Instead· we newspaper to spite their closest films. Polanski is noted for aof the film as a whole was mis­would like to quote a proverb: academic and athletic rival, Mar­Bill Peters preoccupation with violence inguided and incorrect. "Blessed is he who taketh him­quette, after the Warriors soured films such as Repulsion,Mr. Ver Berkmoes is apparent­self seriously, for he doth on an almost perfect season? Rosemary's Baby, Chinatown,ly of the "Gene Shalit School of create much amusement." Never! That would be a etc. Scenes of violence areFilm Criticism," where clever Rudy FernandezMcGuire notable by their absence in Tess;sin ... And Notre Dame is a perfect phrases substitute for thoughtful Bill Richards nearly every major dramaticplace-right? insight. The insinuation is made David Meehanoutcoaches event is referred to, but not ac­throughout the review that Tess is David Divis tually shown in the film. Sure,Richard V. Agnello nothing more than a soap opera,Digger? Polanski could have includedMarquette University albeit prettily photographed. This sensational scenes of rape,is a very misleading assumption childbirth, the subsequent deathfor which I can find no justifica­of the child, the resolution of the Prof. Duffy Dear Editor, tion. With Tess Roman Polanski Tess-Angel Clair-AlexSkip Desjardin's story detailing has created a faithful version ofNo place for d' Urberville triangle by murder, urgesDigger Phelp's animosity toward the Thomas Hardy novel Tess of and Tess's ultimate fate. The . AI McGuire and Bill~ Packer was the d' Urbervilles-the story of a"smart coaching" depiction of these events is solidaritymildly amusing. Digger seems woman unable to control her own seemingly not as important as thejust peeved that McGuire and destiny amid the force of nature effect they have on people's lives.Packer second-guessed the and Victorian society. The filmic Dear Editor, In any case, Tess is a more subtlecoaches from the broadcast style is somewhat restrained and College coaches around the film than the rest of Polanski'sbooth. Since Dick Enberg does detached, a method whiclh allows Dear Editor, country have recently criticized oeuvre, and this shift in style doesthe play-by-play, just what is it the viewer to regard Tess in rela­In the March 4 issue of The Ob­AI McGuire for his negative com­merit some attention.that Digger would like NBC's tion to her environment, and ob­server, Fr. Hesburgh is quoted as ments on NBC-TV coverage of My last comment on Vercolor commentators to do? Be serve her inability to change the saying that current discontent College Basketball games. Their Berkmoes' review is related to hisdishonest in their assessment of whims of Fate. Those viewers among faculty membersstatement that Tess is " ... a girlcriticism misses completely the the game? Restrict their com­who expect a "Victorian Dallas" (Observer's phrase) is "in one real fault of AI McGuire's com­who is shoddily treated by life andments to the cheerleaders and the will be sadly disappointed by this department, on one issue." As a mentary. seems to derive perverse pleasureband? sensitive interpretation of a clas­member of that scapegoat depart­During the 1979-80 season, ex­from it." This observation is notI have long followed college sic novel. ment-so blandly reduced by the Marquette Coach McGuire only incorrect, but offensive asbasketball, and am therefore Natassia Kinski (the actress repetition of "one" -I would commented that during his coach­well. Tess is a beautiful, intel­familiar with the records McGuire who portrays Tess) is labeled as urge that the implications of the ing career he "would have a ligent, and proud woman. Unfor­(when he was coaching Mar­the "new Brooke Shields" and settlement of the tenure case player pretend that he had lost a tunately, she is betrayed often inquette) and Phelps have ac­mention is made of her previous (when the full details are made contact lens on the floor so that he the film, and these circumstanceshieved. If Digger had been able to "skinnish" films. Those movie­public) be confronted by my col­could either rest his team or give are accepted by her as un­lead any of his considerably goers who expect Kin ski to" bare leagues in every department of them instructions." He al~o com­avoidable. She also suffers a greattalented teams to a national cham­all" in Tess will again be disap­the University. And I would most mented that he "would have a deal as the result of her betrayal,pionship, his whining and com­pointed. In fact, the only nudity in earnestly hope for an expressionplayer fake an injury in order to but it is unfair to call this sufferingplaining might seem less like sour the film is a brief scene of Tess of solidarity among the faculty"perverse pleasure." Ver when what has been done is un­derstood. With what I can only take as aGarry Trudeau Doonesbury staggeringly casual assumption of the stupidity of his audience, Fr. Hesburgh also states: "Now,.4NYNAY, LA5T1UEa< IT tenure is handled through the51JW&NLY a4tWE[)ONMt Nr!TJITAU. 7HAT I REALL-Y HA!JN'T faculty committees." And heH£U,I'M 7AK&N THt OPPORJIJNITY '((}{jR FA7HtR. warns: "If every problem with 7lJ SIT!JauNa!!TH YalIWO tenure went to court, it would RiJB Y()(JR N0513 IN IT. I take tenure decisions out of the hands of the departments." Whose hands are handling what, I wonder, when University lawyers impose tenure decisions?  
Bo,x· Q. Notre D.;me, IN 46556 


The Ubjerz:er ,s an indcpendt"nt newspaper published by the-studEnt" •)f the UPiversJ~Y of Notre Dame duLac and Sainr tvlary"s Colle-ge It does not necessanl,· reflec ·;.;e policies of tnc ddmini~.tranon of either institunon The news is reponed as aLLUrarely and as ui::Jecuvely as possible. Editorials represent the opin1on of a majority of rhe Edironal Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the·v1ews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community. and the free expr-:-ss10n of varying opmions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Joseph Duffy Professor ofEnglish 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Cbtef.........................................Paul Mullaney 
Features Editor..........................................Molly Woulfe Managing Editor.............................................Mark Rust 
Photo Editor...................................................John Macor Editorials Editor .................................Michael Onufrak Senior Copy Editor ........................Mary Fran Callahan 
Business Manager .....................................Greg Hedges Executive News Edttor............................TomJackman 
Controller ...........................................................Jim Rudd News Editor ..................................................lynne Daley 
Advertising Manager ......................................Mark Ellis SMC Executive Editor .............................Margie Brassil 
Advertising Sales Manager...............Michael MeSally SMC News Editor......................................... Mary Leavitt 
Circulation Manager ...............................Beth Hackett Sports Editor ..............................................Beth Huffman 
Production Manager ..............................John McGrath 

The IrishExtra 



An ObserverSports Supplement 
Thursday, March 12, 1981 -page 7 






The double life ofDigger Phelps 
It is not enough thatyou follow form, and even follow the most excellent rules for conducting yourselfin the world; you must, also, know whe" to der,iate from them, and where lies the exception. 
--Grevtl/e 

l.lkewlse, It is not enough to say that Digger Phelps is different. Or to call him weird, crazy or even a pompous ass. In order to really see the person, you must first strip away the per­sona. To appreciate you must first understand. 
Eleanor Rigby . .. Wearing afat·e that she keeps in ajar by the door. Who is Itfor? --Paul McCartney 
Admittedly, It is difficult. Knowing Digger Phelps Is somewhat akin to knowing two dif­ferent people. The "public" Digger, adorned in luscious mink and plumed haberdashery, who struts his stuff, pc:rfectly timed to the music, (disco-with a beat-ifyou please) 
with unequaled aplomb. This Is the Digger 
that most people sec; basil.:ally because It is 
the only Dlggc:r he allows them to see. And 
that Is an Important consideration. 
"There Is definitely a difference between the publk person and the person I have come to know," reveals his wife, Terry. "I think it stems from the fact that when someone is in the public eye all the time, the things that per­son values become cheapened very quickly. The only really valuable things are what is private." 
Flao;hy cars and fancy sportscoats? These are nothing more than tangible extensions ofa 
very extraverted personality. 
"Who he Is In public is a very real part of him," Terry continues. "He is very outgoing and he dresses and acts the way he does be­cause he wants to. It's pan of the way he was brought up. His sisters are the same way. Very clothes-conscious; very personable people." 
Uowever, because ofthis, Digger Is often 

A relaxed Digger Phelps meets the na­ttmwl press after Notre Dame's 57-56 win or'er Virginitl. (photo by john Macor) 

criticized by fans and media-types who call 
him a showman, a phony, a sideshow char­
latan who, according to Billy Reed ofThe 
Louisville Courier -journal, "talks a better 
game than he coaches." And ofcourse Digger 
takes great pride in being able to laugh it off. 
Thick skin Is pan of the package, right? 
But It bothers him. It has to. 
We dance around in a ring and suppose, But the Secret sits in the middle and knows. --Robert Frost 
"I guess I just can't make it visible," smiles 
Digger when asked about his real personality. 
"It's a private pan of me that I don't w1nt to 
share with everyone. I think we're all hKe that; 
cautious about who we're friends with and 
who we get close to." 
Terry elaborates. 
"When we first came here, one ofthe things 
\\ e noticed was that some ofthe people we 
considered friends gauged our friendship by 
the success or, in those days, failure ofthe bas­
ketball team. It's something that hurt Dick and 
I very deeply and it may be pan ofthe reason 
that both of us have become very selective 
when it comes to close friends." 
Yet when It comes to coaching, Digger Is 
not at all selective about who sees his sharper 
edges. 
"I coach the way I played," he emphasizes. 
"I'm a fighter. I scream and yell and get in­
volved. I never want to lose a game because 
I'm not Into what's going on." 
His enthusiasm, he claims, is a direct result 
ofgetting a head coaching job at the tender 
age of29. Youthful enthusiasm. But he says 
he's matured. 
"I guess you're insecure when you're young." he sighs. "Back then I was on the defensive in every situatiort. In the last three or four years, I've definitely matured. Look at if this way; I've only had two technical fouls in the last five seasons. When I started here I used to get called for at least six or seven a year. I thought rderees would take advantage ofme and my team because I was a rookie. When you're young, you fight to survive." 
Once I spent my time playing tough-guy scenes, 
ButI was living in a world ofchildish dreams. 
Someday these childish dreams must end, 
To become a man and grow up to dream again. 
--Bruce Springsteen 
Now the irony ofthis whole thing is that Qigger Phelps is a much better basketball coach than most people give him credit for. Yet, his record against great coaches and great teams Is conveniently ignored by the people who find that other aspects ofhis personality make more coJgrful copy. But maybe his critics don't really ignore it. Maybe they just can't explain it. Anyway, why mess up a good story with facts? 
"I'm not really worried about it," he says, somewhat unconvincingly. "As long as you're In the public eye, people are gonna take sh<>ts at you. In fact, I hope every coach and player we go up against thinks I'm a rotten coach." 
Then he winks. He's kidding again. 
"I know exactly what I've accomplished 
here," he goes on. "And as long as I know, I'm 
satisfied. You just don't do what we've done by grabbing a bunch ofplayers, handing them a ball and saying 'Ok fellas, go play.' "IfI worried about what's written and said about me, that could affect me. No, I don't try to compare myselfto other coaches. I don't have the time for that. All I know is, you give me films ofa team and three days with no distrac­tions, and we'll play to the best ofour ability, with a purpose, and we'll get it done.'' 
No winks this time. 
But who shall so forecast the years 
Andfind in loss a gain to match? 
Or reach a band through time to catch 
The far-off interest oftears. 
--A~fred, Lord Tennyson 

Ofcourse his case would be greatly strengthened by a preny little finger-thing to add to his collection ofsilver and gold. The ambition to win a national championship used to be what drove Digger Phelps; what pushed him out ofbed In the morning and held him at his desk far into the night. At least he thought so. But now, as his pepper-black hair becomes as salty as his wit, perhaps he is coming to realize what he always suspected was true. 
Sure, all the winning hao; been fun -the "moments", as he affectionately refers to them, have always been worth a few streamers, a new sportscoat and a couple of cold ones when the clock says 0:00. But that is not what's kept him here. 
It's been the "doing" -the challenge of tomorrow's game, ofnext week's opponent. For, more than anything else, Digger Phelps is a basketball coach and he works his craft in empty practice gyms as well as in crowded arenas. 
Maybe better. 


I 
~ 
I 
~ 
I 
1 
1 
But if he wins it, in Philadelphia or wherever, the challenge may not be so great thereafter. In fact, it may be that getting there, not being there, is really all the fun after all. 
John Wooden, a man who knows a little something about winning it, privately advised Digger that, "you don't really want to win It, because once you do, they expect you to do it again. And again ..." 
But then again, once just may be more than enough for Digger. In fact, he may not even need that. 
"Ifit happens, it happens," he said recently. "Don't get me wrong. I want It to happen and I wlll give everything I have to making It hap­pen. But It isn't my whole life anymore. 
And he admits all this, perhaps painfully. But then it is always painful when you finally realize that, as Charlie Brown once moaned so eloquently: "The anticipation far exceeds the actual event." 
"I want him to look back on his career ao; a great one no matter what hap­pens,"empha'iizes his wife. "Because it hao; been. He's accomplished a lot that he can be proud of." 
And he knows that. And he knows thl' people that count know that. And, to Diggl·r Phelps, that's what really matters after all. 
We're (mything brighter than even the sun 
(we're everything greater 
than books 
might mean) 
we're everyanythlng more than belier'e 
(with a spin 
leap 
alive we're a/i!!e) 
we're wonderful one times one. 
--E.E. Cummings 


The Irish Extra Thursday, March 12, 1981 -page 8 
Staffeis preview regional matchups 



Sports Editor 

Five AP Top Twenty teams highlight the When Horace Greeley told a group ofaspiring Eastern Regional: No. 5 Virginia, No.7 Notre young men to "Go West, young men," he must Dame, No. I0 UCLA, No. 15 Tennessee, and have had in mind the 1981 NCAA Championships. 
No. 16 Brigham Young. As for the other Given a choice, any school among the 48-team seven teams blessed with NCAA tournament field would have jumped at the chance to play in bids, they are content to have come as far as And one ofthe teams, Indiana, has that added in-Louisiana State~the fourth-ranked SEC cham-the Western Regional. the tourney's curtain raising. centive ofplaying on its home court for the ..,.pion, is the top-seed and an obvious favorite to 
Many have already said that this Is the weakest 
regional semis and finals, if it advances that far. ring the Uberty Bell. At 28-3, the Tigers have been
Houston ( 21-8) and Villanova ( 19-10) ofthe four regionals, and indeed, the likes of 
Many so-called experts are picking the Hooslffs ()()nsistently superb during their cakewalk to the
will vic for a chance to lose to Terry Hol­names such as Howard, Fresno State, Idaho and 
to reach the Final Four via Bloomington. Othcl:;; SEC crown. The happy loss ofhead case De Wayne 
lanJ's Virginia Cavaliers. The 25-3 Cavs have are sticking with DePaul. And still others are Northeastern would make that appear to be a fair­Scales to the NBA and the year-old memory ofthe
dropped three season-end d t ecisions: Notre forecasting what college basketball fansl1i,.ye ly accurate assumption. come to realize over the last few years -:;:-"iltat no-I9..§,Q, 20-point, regional final pounding adminis-
Dame and ACC opponents Maryland and But one need only remember 1980 to realize thing transpires as expected in the NCAA~rney. t~~.by eventual NCAA champ Louisville have 
Wake Forest. However, Ralph Sampson & that teams such as those mentioned above have 
mat~~ed and improved the Tigers significantly in 
Co. are not ready to surrender, "wait 'til next The Blue Demons are hoping to ride the crest of done some strange things in this tournament. If year." No, U. Va. can taste a trip to the Final you can't remember, just call Chicago and ask for 
Sunday's emotional victory over Notre Dame into I9SO-BI. the tournament. Ray Meyer's Blue Demons, now ./ . ·'kSenior all-America forward Durand Macklin is Ray Meyer. He'll tell you. 
Four. The 7-4 all-America Sampson has had 
2 7-1, have risen to the occasion against their toug-.,,.,. ,~'s main man -the kind ofplayer who can car­
trouble scoring with his usual flair ( 18 ppg) The pre-tournament favorite to win the West 
best two opponents, Notre Dame and !JC)..A. In . .: '::_ ry . TigeJ:s all by his lonesome. Willie Sims and 
now that Virginia's opponents have begun and advance to the championship round in
those games, DePaul has received superi~rp.erfor-· ~· · Martin comprise the backcourt, with 
employing specially taylored defenses Philadelphia is also the team that has occupied the 
. mances from Cly?e B_radshaw, Mark Agmrre, TeJ-Carter, Greg Cook, and super frosh 
Jopspot in one or both ofthe major polls for most 
designed to plug up bis lane. With th()se 
·. ,..elfGrubbs and Skip_Dtllard -·and all oftltem m" Mitchell rounding out the frontline;.Ex-NBA dollar signs beckoning, this may'\}.e the 
of.~he season: Oregon State.

·~ at the top ~f thetr game from here on .. · and hometown fans in the New Orleans 
sophomore big-man's last year with the~avs But DePaul s biggest downfall this The Beavers have been led all season long by 
if the revenge motive isn't enough, 
-and you can wager he and seniorsjeff' these top-notch performances have seniorall-America centerStevejohnson. The 6-10 
to Philadelphia.

far between. There is no doubt that johnson led his team to a 26-1 record this season, 
Lamp, Lee Raker and Terry Gates ~t to th<;tfOhe loss coming at the hands ofArizona State 
(and can) win it all. ··~ , in t'-"!ieason's last week. Although plagued by foul Virginia will meet its first serious atlver­trouble throughout the season, Johnson still led sary when it goes up against the Volunteers. 

Coach Ralph Miller's club in scoring and rebound-
The 20-7 Tennessee squad will earn the 
<""" ill$·

right to grapple with Holland's club after 
_,, 'k. dsU is also lead by 6-8 forward Charlie Sjtton of getting past the winner ofthe Virglnia 
Mc~nville, Ore. A member of NBC's first team Commonwealth-Long Island gairi~;.It .~· •· All-~'shman squad, Sitton scored in double 
·

shouldn't be much trouble. 1 this year, helping OSU to its second con­The Vols, under third-year coach Do , Pac-1 0 title. DeVoe, are entering their third · 
Smith's North Carolina Tar Heels NCAA tournament. Tennessee seed in this regional, by virtue of star, but could possibly defeat the victory over Maryland in the finals a little luck and we !-balanced team Coast Conference tournament. from Gary Carter, Howard Wood, arulmd Iowa's Hawkeyes are Final Four also boast a member ofNBC's All· 
Ellis. in 6-I 0 center Sam Perkins of Lat­
from 1980, butLute Olson's club lacks perstar(sic-Ronnie Lester) to carry 

who has little trouble keeping or Wichita State, forth~ t length with his 47-inch reach, is their case for 1981 obliv.ion y 6-6 senior AI Wood, who AI McGuire 
double-gag, throwaway ofthe Big finest pure shooter in the business," and Kevin Boyle, Vince Brookins, omore)ames Worthy. and company will be making an 
Wood was the sixth man on last summer's USA 
to the Snow Belt this time out. 
Olympi~; team, while Worthy came back from an 
freshman season to become one of 
sin the ACC. 
Wichita State are two temp · 
a 2-7 start, Denny Crum's Card' like the champions they are to One oftwo Western Athletic Conference teams Conference league and tourney in the regional occupies the third seeding-Utah, winning their last I 5 games en route ranked tenth in one ofthis week's polls, will bring Minus Darrell Griffith, Louisville a 24-4 record into it's second round tournament 
game at 'J"exas-El Paso. defending NCAA titlists have momentum :u!j.: are led by 6-5 all-American Dan­those big jumping jacks on the front line -Rod­themselves playing in the 
Madison game. The Hoyas quickness could ney and Scooter McCray, Wiley Brown, and un­semi-finals on their home floor in Salt present Digger Phelps' strength-oriented derrated Derek Smith -can get very streaky. If provided they get past the winner ofthe club with troubles while james Madison, a they put their streaks together with backcourt vet St~lte'·N~>rtheastern contest. 
Jerry Eaves and on-coming freshman Lancaster 
one-point loser to Virginia earlier in the t\II-Fresl~rn1an teamer, 6-3 point Gordon, Louisville suddenly becomes more
season, could be even more troublesome. of Florida, teamed with your basic darkborse candidate. 
The 20-6 UCLA club, last year's final!~~· The Shockers of Wichita State have that 
tournament pick and suprise winners (\fa home court in order to reacn, .,. 
-ho71ecourt advantage the first two times
Final Four trip, is led at guard by the is, it probably won't mak.,S it 
,...,on the floor this weekend. 1n the raw to finish no better that sixth in 
ing quick Rod Foster. Mike Holton, game. .fill.' 
··-department, Wichita State is pure awes<Jme. Jis the team to watch in the Mideast.
Saunders, Darren Daye and Cliff they are young and inexperienced, perhaps a

may have finished in fourth place in the 
to anchor second-year coach Larry Brown's 
Atlantic Coast Conference, but they have as much or two away from making a serious run at the Final 
In first round games to be played at UCLA's
team. 1 talent, without a doubt, aS anyone in the country. Four. Cliff"Good News" Levingston and Antionne Pauley Pavilion, Kansas State, a loser to the Univer­Digger Phelps, who owns a 9-ll slate The problem for coach Lefty Driesell is getting Carr, the 6-8 and 6-9 sophomore forwards, are 
sity ofKansas in the finals ofthe Big Eight tourna­versus the Bruins, may lose once in a season them to play together, and play together regularly. both tremendous scorers, rebounders, leapers, 
ment last week, will take on the University ofSan to a team, maybe even twice, but never three (Some say Driessel is actually the problem.) and dunkers. JUCO transfer Tony Martin (Casper, 
Francisco. times. Should the Irish get a third-time char­But the 18th-ranked Terrapins have shown Wyom.j.C.) has been the difference at guard for 
The Dons, who split two games with Notre 
mer shot against the Bruins, you can bet / signs ofcoming to life lately. Maryland lost the the Shockers. ASU will probably take the charge Dame earlier this season, earned the right to play 
championship game ofthe ACC tourney to North Carolina, 61-60, but only after proving it was 
Notre Dame will be on top this time. out of the Shockers when Aiton Lister takes the in the tournament by virtue oftheir 96-82 victory inside out ofWichita's game in the regional semi­
After the Irish advance to the regional ready to play ball. The Terps played their best over Pepperdine in the WCAC finals Monday 
finals.

finals in Atlanta, they most probably will en­-garpe ofthe season in the tourney semi-finals ll!$ht. counter a vengeful Virginia club -whieh .,_,.against Virginia. Driessel had his team take the As for the rest ofthe Midwest? Big Eight regulilt ···,<Also at Pauley, the Wyoming Cowboys, seeded leads us to the big question: Can Notre rf:tme "•••.Court in gold uniforms (with red trim) before tip­season champ Missouri and conference tournef fifth, will take on Howard, the runner-up in the beat the Cavs twice? Ralph Sampson was not off. All they proceeded to do was give Virginia -winne:r Kansas rate some concern. But the Mizzou Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference. 
In first round exactly pleased with the sandwich-job Or­ranked first for much ofthe year -an 85-62 Tigers have to be considered a major flop after all games at El Paso, Fresno State, winner ofthe lando Woolridge pulled with the help Ofjoe beating. Albert King was an All-American in every their pre-season hype pushed them into national Pacific Coast Athletic Association tournament, 
sense with his 24-point performance, and Buck
Kleine and Tim Andree the first time around. consideration. The best thing that happened to will play Northeastern, a surprise first place finis­
Williams knocked Ralph Sampson all over the 
Missouri all year was finding out Steve Stipanovich her in the ECAC northern division, while Idaho, 
And the Irish can't rely on Lamp to play 
court -from pivot to pivot. 
couldn't shoot straight. Kansas is pesky with winner ofthe Big Sky conference will challange 
below average for a second consecutive 
That was the Maryland that many people picked 
Olympic performer Darnell Valentine and former big Sam Clancy and the Pitt Panthers. 
time. Digger's troops must find another ploy No. I prior to the season's start. The Terps could South Bend LaSalle star David Magley, Wichita's 
to contain the nation's finest collegiate cen­now be ready to prove themselves in the tourna­Winnersofthe first round games will get to take 
unfriendly surroundings and the Sun Devils ofASU on the big boys in the second round, and ofcourse
ter, or they will be left with a Final Four ment. 
will send the)ayhawks packing.

There is one significant fact. After Maryland we all know what happened last year. 
berth just a fading dream. 

defeats UT-Chattanooga in the first round, it will 
The prudent Irish rooter should be pul­Arkansas, Mississippi, Lamar, Southern and Mer­That's when all the fun started, although Ray
be able to face Indiana on a neutral court
ling for whomever Ralph and his supporting cer College (located in Macon, Tenn.; champions Meyer will tell you different. (Ifyou should hap­
(Dayton) before the action moves to 
cast face when round two begins this ofthe Trans-America Conference)? Give me a pen to call Ray, don't mention Horace Greeley. 
Bloomington. And then Maryland, not Indiana, 
break. They're not close.)
weekend. 

will be the team to watch at Assembly Hall. 
The Irish Extra Thursday, March 12, 1981 -page 9 
PaxsonpointsIrish towardtourney 

, 
john Paxson drives the lanefor two points in the rematch againstPaxson•UCLA. The Irish may face the Brnins for a third time this season if both teams win theirfirst games in the NCAA Tournament. 
Unlike football 


NCAA Tourney decides champ 
jealousy or competition between them or their younger brother Michael (now a senior un the Fairmont West High School basketball team in Dayton). I think we all agreed it was best for John to go to Notre Dame." 
Paxson recalls the criteria h<: set for th<: college he would attend and says that Notre Dam<: best fit the bill in all r<:spects. 
"I wanted 3: good academic school with a good basketball program," h<: begins. "I did want to go away, but it had to be close enough to home that my family could come and see me play. I just liked Notre Dame's at­mosphere and I really wantt•d to play for 

·Coach Phelps." When he arrived on campus, Paxson quickly encountered a probkm practically 
-
every freshman is forced 10 dt:al with: 
homesickness. 
"It was pretty bad for awhile," he remem­bers. "I really missed my family (which, besidt•s his two brothers, includes sisters Molly, 22, and Maggie, 5) and it was really tough adjusting to schoolwork and basket­hall besides." 
However, any fears that all ofthat would affect his performance on the court were quickly put to rest. On December I I, 1979, Paxson stepped to the free thow line wih five seconds showing on the clock and single-handedly defeated UCLA before a house packed with fans thatbad to recheck their programs to make sure he was really a freshman. 
There was more, ofcourse. Twelve points (four-of-five from the field) in his first col­lege game. Nineteen against Davidson when starter Rich Branning had injured an ankle, and Phelps told Paxson, "It's your ballgamc." 
And he came through -with flying colors. 
Then he was a sophomore and all ofa sud­den Branning and Bill Hanzlik (Notre Dame's other starting guard last season) had graduated. Paxson, now a starter, responded to the pressure with 21 points against UCLA in the season opener which Notre Dame lost, 94-81. 
"We could have been beaten much worse," Phelps said afterwards. "Tripucka and jackson did not have good games and Woolridge got in foul troubk early. We relied heavily on Paxson and he did every­thing he could for us." 
The following week against Indiana, Pax­son did a number on Hoosier star Isiah Thomas, scoring 18 pl)ints and prompting Bobby Knight to comment: 
"Paxson and Thomas arc two of the best guards in the country. But john might have had a better game tonight." 
A month later it was Paxson again. This time Notre Dame trailed San Francisco, 75­74, with six seconds remaining, when num­ber 23 canned a 20-footcr from th<: top of the key to ice an important victory ti.>r Phelps and Co. 
"I think that game was indicative ofthe way John has matured as a player," com­ments Phelps. "He handled the tremendous pressure very well and that is a credit to him. It will also help us as a team down the stretch." 
Offthe court, Paxson has made the adjust­ment from wide-eyed freshman to confident sophomore with similar case. Well into his second year ofstudies in the Collegt~ ofBusi­ness Administration, he believes that, in spite ofthose occasional bouts with homesickness, he made the right decision to come to Notre Dame. 
"It is a lot easier when you get used to the place and the people," he smiles."And you have to learn how to balance schoolwork with basketball. But I think Notre Dame is a great place to do all that because it is really the best ofboth worlds." 
Although graduation is still down the road a bit, the chance to follow his brother to the NBA is certainly a real possibility. 
"I'm not even thinking about that right now," he stresses. "The important things to me are getting a degree and helping Notre Dame win a national championship." 
But in the future, when i's time to st:ttle down and start raising a family, it's a safe bet he'll locate somewhere close to the Dayton area. Because, if you haven't realizt>d it by now,John Paxson's roots run deep and his family ties are very strong. 
And he wants to make sure that none of that changes. 

By FRANK LaGROIT A 
Sports Writer 
John Paxson is not the first member ofhis family to do great things with a basketball. 
The fact is, Notre Dame's sophomore point guard comes from a long line of hardcourt thoro ughbreds, beginning with his fathtT,jim, who was an All-American at the University of Dayton in 1956. 
Once planted, the Paxson family tree began to frimly take root with eldest son, Jim, who made practically every All-America honor roll as a senior at Dayton where he was a four-year starter for coach Don "Mickey" Donoher's Flyers. A first-round 
pick in the 1979 NBA draft, jim is now a star­
ter for the Portland Trailblazers, averaging 
I 7 points per game. 

So obviously it was no surprise when second son john led Archbishop Alter High School to the Ohio AAA championship as a junior and claimed tournament MVP honors in the process. However, the surprise came when Paxson, an all-state standout, who averaged 23.4 points per game as a senior, did not follow family tradition and enroll at Dayton, which Is just a jump shot away from his Kettering, Ohio home. 
"I narrowed my choices down to North Carolina and Notre Dame," remembers Pax­son. He announced his decision to play for the Fighting Irish in January ofhis senior year because he wanted "forget about recruiting and just concentrate on basket­ball and school." He insists that his choice to pass up Dayton was in no way caused by fear of playing in his brother's shadow. 
"I don't think that was it at all," points out his motherjackie, "Jim had four great years at Dayton and during that time john was his biggest fan. .There has never been any 

By MAIT HUFFMAN 
Sports Writer 
On October 3, 1938 the National Col­legiate Athletic Association officially ap­proved a recommendation by Ohio State ba.~ketball coach H.G. Olsen that a national tournament be cstabli~hcd. The following spring Olsen's Buckeyes were beaten in the first-ever NCAA championship game, 46-33, by the Ducks of Oregon. 
The ensuing eight years saw basic changes In the format and presentation ofthe tourna­ment, though the number of teams allowed to participate remained at eight until 1951. In 1940 the first all-tournament team was chosen with Marvin Huffman (no relation, thank you) being named the outstanding player. 
This period saw a number ofdifferent 

schools winning the title, some an indication 
oflhlngs to come, others, uniquely forget­
table. Indiana won the second title in 1940; 
Bobby Knight was still a twinkle in 
someone's eye. 
Wisconsin, Stanford, Wyoming, and Utah won national championships during this period and In 1945-46 the Aggics ofOk­lahoma A & M, led by Bob Kurland, became the first team to win back-to-hack titles. 
After Holy Cross became the first inde­pendent to win in 194 7 the age of Rupp erupted. Kentucky, ullder Adolph Rupp won three of the next four tournaments. The Wildcats were interrupted only by City Col­lege ofNew York in 1950 when that Nat Hol­man coached team became the first and last team to win both the NCAA and the NIT in the same year. 
The format was expanded to sixteen teams In 1951 and the following year Kansas (Wilt Chamberlain would not play there for six years) was the championship team. 
In 1953 the tournament was expanded to 22 teams and the Hoosiers won the second oftheir three tournaments. The Fighting Irish also made their first appearance in 19'53. After wins over Western KentuckY and Penn. Notre Dame was defeated by Louslana State 81-66. 
In 1954 the number ofteams qualifying was again increased, this time to 24. Lasalle won its lone: NCAA title in the expanded tourney. The Dons ofSan Francisco, led by the omnipotent Bill Russell, became the third team to win back-to-back ('55 and '56) titles. In doing so they were also the first champions to complete a season undefeated -their final slate read 29-0. 

After championships by North Carolina, Kentucky (theirfourth offive) and the Gold­en Bears ofCalifornia, Ohio became the cen­terpiece for college basketball. Ohio State won in 1960 followed by consecutive wins by Cincinnati (led by Oscar Robinson). Both Bearcat wins included final game victories over the Buckeyes. Cincinnati lost in its bid to become the first team ever to win three straight titlt:s when the Bearcats were defeated by Loyola ofChicago. 
In 1964 at Kansas City, Mo., a team from out west began a domination that is un­rivaled by any team in any sport. The Univer­sity ofCalifornia at Los Angeles was to win an incredible I 0 ofthe next 12 championships, including a string ofseven straight. 
Led by such stars as Lew Alcindor, Bill Walton, Sidney Wicks, and Richard Washing­ton, the Bruins compiled a record of51-4 in tournamc~nt play. The only gaps in the UCLA dominance occurred in 1966 when the Miners ofTexas Western (led by Togo Railcy)won and in 1974 when the Wolfpack of North Carolina State whipped AI McGuire's Marquette. 
The Bruins' last championship year was also the first year that the tournament con­tained 32 teams. Withjohn Wooden's retire­ment that year the championship returned to the Midwest where it has remained. In the last five years seven ofthe I 0 finalists and all ofthe champions have come from the Mid­west/Great Lakes region. 
In 1976 Indiana won the title and in 1977 Marquette won when the field was ex­panded to 40 teams. In 1978 Notre Dame made its only appearance in the Final Four, finishing fourth. That same year Kentucky won its t1fth title, second only to the Uclans' 10. 
In 1978 Notre Dame was bewitched in the regional final by eventual champion Michl­gan State and their star, Greg Keiser. 
Last year the field for the tournament was expanded to 48 teams, leading to cries that it was too easy to get in and that the quality of teams was being lower.ed. Both last year and this year there have been protests that all the best teams didn't get in because ofpost season tournaments and qualifying stan­dards provided for some ofthe lesser known leagues. The proponents ofthe conference champion qualifying method claim that some leagues don't get the media exposure neccesary to draw a bid. Then there is the normal jealousy between the big leagues ove'r numbers ofteams from their con­ference that have been invited. 
Both sides received a shot in the arm when Louisville, a seeded team and certainly one ofthe best in the nation, met UCLA, last picked and fourth in the Pac-1 0, in last year's final. The Cardinals were triumphant and the final four teams had the most losses ( 29) since 1954 when Bradley, Penn, Lasalle, and USC combined for 33. 
Which leads us to 1981. 
TOURNAMENT FACTS: Kentucky has made the most NCAA tournament ap­pearances with 25 followed by UCLA with 21 and Notre Dame with 17...The Bruins hold the record for most Final Four ap­pearances with 14, followed by Kentucky and Ohio State with eight apiece...Notre Dame's Austin Carr has the top two scoring averages in tournament history with a 57.7 mark in 1970 and 41.7 in 1971. Carr, who played in three tourney games both years he led the Irish, also holds the record for most points in a game with 61 ( vs. Ohio U., March 7, 1970). ..Notre Dame and Iowa hold the record for most points in a game by two teams with 227. The Hawkeyes won 121­106 on March 14, 1970...Notre Dame's record in the NCAA is 18-20 for a .473 per­centage...The Irish must win five straight games to take this year's crown...32 teams will participate in the opening round ofthe tourney while 16 more received byes and will wait for the second round. 
The majority of this data was taken from 
Ken Rappoport's, The Classic, a history of 
the NCAA tournament. 

-------------------------~--~----------~--------------------------------------------------,--------------------------­

The Irish Extra Thursday, March 12, 1981 -page 10 


I . 

----------.., 




Features 
Thursday, March 12, 1981 -page 11 
-------------~----------------~ --~ ~ 
Doobie Brothers rest on laurels 
A
nother one ofthe various groups which have 
changed boats without changing the name ofthe 
boat is the Doobie Brothers. They began as a basic rock­
and-roll band In the early 70's; then, abruptly, in 1976 
began recording in a jazz-rock vein which eventually 
made them even more successful than they had been 
previously. 
The band first hit In 1972, with "Listen to the Music." They had only shonly before that gained a recording contract, in a way very few groups get one. They sent Warner Brothers a dt.•mo tape before any scouts had dis­con·rcd them; someone actually heard It, was in­terested, saw them perform, and signed them on the spot. They didn't have to pay their dues for years to get "discovered." 
The dominating force in the group in the early days was TomJohnston. Be wrote most ofthe early Doobies hits, like "Long Train Runnin'," and sang lead on all the well-known records. Oddly, the group's first number one slnglt: was not a very rock-and-roll type song. It was the mort· mellow "Black Water," which hit numberone early in 197'5; it was at least the third single from the LP What Were Once Vices Are Now Habits. They followed that with a remake of"Takc Me In Your Arms," more reminiscent ofearlier recordings. Then came the abrupt change. 
TomJohnston left the Doobics in 197'5, as did several other members. Qohnston has since attempted a solo career, hitting with "Savannah Nights" early in 1980.) Coming in were two former members ofSteely Dan, from the days when that group was actually a band, and new lead singer Michael McDonald. The result was a radically different sound in comparison to past Doobie Brothers releases. The single "Takin' It to the Streets," and the album of the same name, are excellent ex­amples ofthis change from the rock which had earned them their money in the early days to the jazz-oriented rock which became the most copied sound ofthe late '70s except for disco. 
Since then, the Doobic Brothers have released records in the manner oftheir stylistic cousins, Steely Dan; sporadically, taking many months to record each one. The late-1978 release Minute by Minute, and the first single from the album, "What a Fool Believes," both hit number one. Two more singles from that album made the top 40. 
Since then, the Doobie Brothers have seemed con­tent to rest on their laurels. Both their material on the No Nukes compilation and that on their recent album One Step Closer seem half-baked in comparison to the early days -even in comparison to early jazz-oriented Doobie Brothers material. 

Thejam presses forward 
N
ot anotherJam album? Well, no, actually. There's never been "just anotherJam Album", and 'Sound Affects' is no exception. Like each successive release of their t.·arccr, this album takes the'band forward, just as 'Setting Sons' did from'Mod Cons' did from ·Modern World' did from 'In The City'. 'Sound Affects' isn't a per­fect Jam album, even if it is a great one, but above all it's a brave t.kparture and an earnest effort to bn:ak new ground. 'Sound Affects' is TheJam today, and that's what we need most ofall. 
Sidt.· one opens with 'Pretty Green', already an es­tablisht.·d feature in the live set. Built on a terse, insistent rhythm (inspired initially by Weller's liking for Michael Jat.·kson ), its lyrics describe an innocence that comes qukkly to grasp the cash nexus: luxury or necessity, 
"Ibis is society·· You can't do nothing, unless it's in the pocket". By way ofcomplete contrast comes 'Monday', a beautiful love song that t.·limbs status via some soarin~ Mellow, soothing harmonies underscore the chorus­title line, brutally thrown into an ironic light by the verses, which amount to a jarring litany ofsnapshot images seen through a young man's eyes in contem­porary England, some violent, some sordid, some ten­der. "A police car and a screaming siren ... Paint splattered walls and the cry ofa tomcat ...That's en­
tertainment". 

Side two starts with a couple of similarly excellent numbers, but overall it fails to maintain the standard of the t1rst. 'Dream Time' is harsh and abrasive, more tradi­tional Jam in style. 'Man In The Corner Shop', another gorgeously memorable tunc, returns to some gently 
sardonic reflections on the English class system: a'> al­ways, the viewpoint is a humane, personalistic one rat­her than political in the mass, didactic sense. 
'But the final tracks-'Boy About Town' and 'Scrape 

chorus harmonies, culminating in Weller's impassioned declaration:"/ will never be embarrassed about love again", pt.·rhaps the record's most significant line. 
Paul Weller's frank admiration for middle-period Bcatles is evident throughout 'Sound Affects', especially in the guitar work. 'Start' we already know about (included here in re-mixed form) and another driving 
love song 'But I'm Different Now' comes stuffed with 'Dr. Robert' riffing and 'I Fcell'inc' ripples. The crucial point, though, Is that these influences are incorporated only to enrich what's already there, and remain firmly subservient to Weller's own songwritinggifts and to the distlnt.'t, powerful identity ofTheJam. As with The Who 
touches In earlier work, whoever they look to for in­
spiration it's always The Jam themselves who come out 
on top. 'That's Entenainmcnt', which closes the first side must rate as one of Paul Weller's finest pieces to date. 
strangely out of place, almost like one of those jaunty 
mod anthems thatJam imitators were churning out all 
last year. The lyrics do work to undercut the self­
confidence ofthe chorus somewhat -buteven the ad­
dition of'Penny Lane' brass doesn't ;ift tje song much 
above average. 'Scrape Away', meanwhile, is disappoint­
ingly nnegative and vague. Like 'La'>t Couple', it gives an 
uncomfortable impression ofbeing rushed through to 
beat a deadline. 

Hut let's end on a positve note. Where 'Sound Affects' 
is good it's great, and where it's not so good it's still 
good. TheJam should go on being number one in our 
hearts and charts because they go on earning the right 
to be. I've got 'Sound Affects' and I'm chuffed with it and 
alii want now ...is anotherJam album. 
Paul DuNoyer 
Neely Feotures Writer 



Quiz XV: N arne changes 
H
ow do you spell relief? Most ofyou, at this point in the semester, would spell it B-R-E-A-K. And so do I. Hut this week's quiz will not be a break from routine, for another goodie is on th•: way. 
Last week's was one ofthose which contained the obviously easy (I'm sure the vast majority ofyou knew who recorded the LP Wild Planet) and the impossibly hard (those wordsJohn Lennon mumbles during the intro of"Woman" are pretty obscure). You can find the answers to all last week's questions below this week's quiz. 
This column deals with those many, many performers who have changed their names upon becoming rock stars. These follow no pat­tern; some very "commercial" names have been changed to less com­mercial names, while (more commonly) the opposite has occurred. 
Robert Dupuis and Dominic lerace arc a couple ofexamples of performers who changed the spellingoftheir name for good rca'>on ­so that people could pronounce them easily. The aforementioned sin­gers arc Robby Dupree ("Steal Away," "Hot Rod Hearts") and Donnie Iris ("Ah! Leah!"), respectively. 
An obscure British singer named David Jones changed his name in the mid 1960s for another good reason -there was another not­quite-so-obscure British singer named DavidJones hanging around. That one was one ofthe Monkecs. This one became David Bowie. 
Other performers name themselves after other people whom they admire orotherwise respect enough to steal their names. Robert Zim­merman took the first name ofone ofhis favorite poets (Dylan 
Thomas) and used it as his la'>t; he became, obviously, Bob Dylan. Reginald Dwight "borrowed" the names oftwo ofhis British musician­friends, LongJohn Haldry and Elton Dean, and became Elton John. 
There are also those performers who were given their phony names. A young Philadelphian named Ernest Evans reminded Mrs. Dick Clark ofa "little Fats Domino, or a Chubby Checker," and that he became. Gerry Dorsey's manager, Gordon Mills, gave him the name of a 17th century classical composer, Engelbert Humperdinck. 
Finally, there arc those who seem like they usc pseudonyms but are using their real names. Many artists known by unusual first names were actually born with that name. Examples arc Dion (real name: Dion DiMucci), Fabian (real name: Fabiano Forte), and Melanic (real name: Melanie SaJka). Then there arc others, like Elvis Presley, Hilly Joel, andJohnny Cash, who use(d) their real name although they may sound fake. 
Some more people who changed their names are listed below. Your job, should you choose to accept it, i!> to identifY these pop and rock stars. 
I. Vincent Fumier 

2. 
Chris Geppert 

3. 
Delcan Patrick McManus 

4. 
Dino Crocetti 

5. 
Charles Westover 

6. 
Ross Bagdasarian 

7. 
Richard Zehringer 

8. 
StevclandJudkins 

9. 
Robert Velline 


10. 
Frederick Hulsara Here are the answers to last week's quiz: 


I. The wordsJohn Lennon mumbles over the intro of"Woman" an· "the other halfofthe sky." As Lennon told Jonathan Cott ofRolli"g Stone, '"Woman' came about because...it suddenly hit me. I saw what women do for us...Women really arc the other halfofthe sky, as I whisper at the beginning ofthe song." 
2. 
The song which took three years to become a U.S. hit wa~ "Crying" by Don McLean (currently in the top ten on the Billboard charts). 

3. 
The most successful album by a British New Wave band during 1980 wasPretenders by the Pretenders. 


4.Xanadu put five records in the top 20 during the pa~t year­"Magic" by Olivia Newton-John, "I'm Alive" and "All Over the World" by ELO, "Xanadu" by both Olivia and ELO, and "Suddenly" by Olivia with Cliff Richard. 
'5. (a) "Take a Little Rhythm"-Ali Thomson 
(b) 
"Into the Night" -Benny Mardoncs 

(c) 
"Pilot of the Airwaves" -Charlie Dore 

(d) 
"Together" -Tierra 


(e) 
"Everybody's Got to Learn Sometime" -The Korgis 


6. (a)Moutb to Mouth -Upps, Inc. 
(b) Wild Planet -The B-'52's (c)justOneNigbt-Eric Clapton 
(d)Gideon -Kenny Rogers 

(e)Fun and Games -Chuck Mangione 
7. 
The problem with the CCR live album was that it wa~n't recorded at the Royal Albert Hall; it was recorded in Oakland, California. Someone at Fantasy apparently mis-labeled the tape by accident. The album has since been rt"-issued with the name The Concert. 

8. 
The other part of"Working My Way Back to You" is "Forgive Me, Girl," and the other part of"Cupid" is "I've Loved You for a Long Time." 

9. 
The la'>t Who 45 in the top ten was way back in 1967, with "I Can See for Miles." 

10. 
Tt..:-nkmt: ofthe Cheap Trick Nu-Disk is Found All the Parts. 


--~~-~·­
------------------~-------------~----------­
CThe_Obset:Ver========== 

~~c:1lC3l~===========================T=h=u=r=sd=a=y=,M==~=c=h=1=2=,1=9=8=1===p=ag=e==12=

Campus 
•12:30 
p.m. -lenten mass; fr. griffin, Ia fortune rathskeller, all welcome. 

•12:30 
p.m. -meeting; club italiano, for italian-speaking professors, faculty room south dining hall. 

•4 
p.m. -radiation lab semi· nar; "collision-induced absorp· tion spectroscopy.~· dr. j.j. bentley, jr., nd conference room, "radiation spectros· copy", dr. j.j. bentley, jr., nd conference room, radiation lab. 

•4:30 
p.m. -biology dept. seminar; "nonketotic hyper· glycinemia: strychnine therapy," dr. ira brandt, iu school ofmedicine, I 0 I galvin. 

•7:30 
p.m. -cinema; "the dis· erect charm of the bour­geoisie," annenberg aud., sponsor: dept. of comm. and theatre. 



IV classes focus on labor 

The Union Leadership Program of non-credit classes at Indiana Univer· sity at South Bend this spring will in· elude a new course called "Labor 
Issues on Film." 

The class is one of five offered through the IU Division of Labor Studies. It focuses on threats to job security, workplace safety, the "pink-collar limbo" for working women and racial and ethnic divi· sions. The course also will explain the economic and social power wielded by multinational con· glomerate corporations. 
The eight-week "Labor Issues on Film" course will meet from 7 to 9 
p.m. on Thursdays beginning March 5 at IUSB. .a 
Two other Union Leadership courses to be taught this spring at IUSB include "Instructor Training for Workplace Safety and Health" and "Advanced Collective Bargain· ing." 
A course taught in Elkhart, "Preparation for Grievance Arbitra· tion," meets on 10 Wednesdays from 7 to 9 p.m. starting March 11 in Elkhart Memorial High School. "Steward Training. and Grievance Representation" will be taught on the Goshen College campus on 10 Tuesdays starting March 3. The class 
will meet from 7 to 9 p.m. For more information, call 237· 4469. 
Molarity 

it·sadelighttofind. 

Michael Molinelli . 

T'VE AL-WAYS 

~E L.T IF T1Jf UNIV£R~IfY WAIJT~ 17J 71rl<£ Tiff" PL.!C£ 
OF CVR PMEA.JT3. ntEY 
5HOULP PAY OUR 
orbumin your

Inthesedaysri 

1 Boutique woman thoroughly 18 Completely
The Dai1y CfQSSWQfd 5 Gambling 26 Scarcity 47 Always, engrossed game 29 Gracious to poets 22 Push aside 9 Thrusting politeness 48 Occurrence 24 Dickens weapon 34 Wheel shaft 50 Island character 
ACROSS 25 Fussy 45 Washed 13 Lenient 

14 Covering 35 Very salty of ice 36 Letteron crystals a key 
15 Pitcher 37 Servant 16 City on the girl Missouri 38 Helping 17 Showhos· lift pitalityto 39 Brogan 19 Musical 40 Wapiti 
sounds 41 Light 20 Losehope watercraft 21 Armofthe 42 British 
sea nobleman 23 Church 43 High qual· projections lty silver 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
3/12/81

©1981 by Chicago Tribune·N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 

All Rights Reserved 
republic 26 Titled 54 Set apart women 58 Poisonous 27 Glorify 
compound 28 Similar 59 Boiler room 30 Seine 

worker tributary 61 Faulty 31 Old Hebrew 62 Null measure 63 Incursion 32 Beach area 64 Shaping 33 Surrender 
machine 35 City on the 65 Unemployed Rhine 66 French 38 Child: Scot. 
town 39 Colonists 41 Purify 

DOWN 44 Enjoy 1 Lean-to 45 Closeto 2 Sharpen 46 Presently 3 Grain crop 49 Night 4 Ready watch 5 Magic 50 Roman: abbr. 
charm 51 Nlmbusof 6 Knowing a comet 7 Former 52 Door lead· 
Portuguese ing out coin 53 Siva's wife 8 Riverof 55 Amo, Normandy amas,­9 Adrawlng 56 Scut 
for prizes 57 Within: 10 Quantity pref. 11 Zola novel 60 Bendthe 12 Dear: Fr. head 

Senior Bar St. Patties Night Thurs. March 12 -•Green Beer -•Jameson Specials Live Music 

Jun Daly and Friends in the Pub. \ 

SPRING BREAK SPECIAL TO O'Hare 
To O'Hare March 12, 1981 6:00p.m. Loads at Circle 
6:15 p.m. Loads SMC LeMans Bus Stop 
To O'Hare .March 13, 1981 

12:30 p.m. & 4:00p.m. Loads at Circle 
12:45 p.m. & 4:15p.m. Loads SMC LeMans Bus Stop 
SPECIAL FARE SPECIAL TIME 25 Percent Discount $15 One Way Hourly Service from O'Hare March 22, 1981 Every Hour 

LOADS AT O'HARE 
Lower Level Carson Circle Restaurant Tickets on sale Maich 5 & 10 in LaFortune Activities Center 
Between noon and 5 p.m. Call283-3031, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; 283-6283 after 5 p.m. 

• • .Coach 
amtlnuedjrompage 14 
York. I would go ha1.·k there to visit my family and friends, hut I wouldn't want Corry (his two-and-a-half year old son) to have to grow up there." 
As Digger Phelps's right-hand man, and the recruiting co-ordinator for the Irish basketball progrjlm, McLaughlin spends quite a hit of time both in his offict· and on the road. For instance, two weeks ago, McLaughlin drove to Lincoln, Ill. on a Friday night to see a recruit, and made the four hour return trip on the same evening. 
On Saturday afternoon, Mclaugh­lin took to the bench, and along with Pete Gillen and Gary Brokaw, hdped Digger Phelps coach Notre Dame to a 13 point win over Dayton. On Sunday morning at 8:00, McLaughlin and Phelps took off for sunny California, to see a couple of recruits. They left the coast at I0:20 p.m., and arrived hack in South Bend at 4 a.m. 
"With the change in the NCAA rules, (the part-time assistant can no longer travel to recruit) I've gone out a little more this year," says McLaughlin. "Put that with getting the team ready, and it makes for long days and weeks. 
"It's very hard to get away," he continues. "When I can, I just like to go home and play with my son. I try to do that at least one night a week. During the summer, my wife and I always try to get away for a couple of weeks, hut it is very hard to get away." 
Life, now, for Tom McLaughlin is a road which he and the rest of the Irish coaching staff hope leads straight to Philadelphia. Perhaps beyond that, it will carry McLaugh­lin to a head coaching position somewhere, something he would like to attain while he stays in the husiness. 
It may even lead to life as a lawyer, or to the very relaxed life ofEurope. 
And whether the road he straight or humpy, Mt·Laughlin will stir up no trouhle. He'll just go on accept­ing and adjusting. That's the way he is. 

Indiana coach Bobby Knight consults with hisAll-AmericanpointguardIsiah Thomas whileDigger Phelps discusses strategy with his superstar Orlando Woolridge during the recent DePaul game. Indiana will be competing in the Mideast region in the NCAA tournament while the Irish hatJe been penctllt•d into the East region. (photo byjohn Macor) 




Division II Tournament 
Tennis team aims for national championship 
The Observer Thursday, March 12, 1981 -page 13 
Don't let that sunshine and those warm breezes fool you. The Notre Dame women's tennis team will be all business when it ventures westward for five matches in seven days over Spring Break, March 16­22. 
The Irish, who captured the In­diana AlAW Division II championship this fall, arc pointing for the AlAW Region V Division II tournament, to be held May 14-16 in 
Spilman goes after starting spotwith Reds 
TAMPA, Fla. (AP) -Harry Spil­man takes htting practice with the "extra players. lie also takes infield with the "extra playt·rs." 
But Spilman, used primarily as a pinch-hitter the last two seasons by the Cincinnati Reds, feels it's time to lind out whether he can be a starter or whether's he's destined to be an "extra" the rt·st of his career. 
"After this year, something's got to happen," said Spilman, who can play first, third, outfield and also ~.·att·h. "Everybody in this game wants a chance to st·e what he can do." 
Signed by tht· Reds in 1974 through a tryout camp, Spilman ac­cepted his roll the last two years as a left-handed pinch-hitter and oc­casional first baseman. 
!lis I 0 runs halted in last season were the most hy a Cincinnati pinch­hitter since 1972. He also had four home runs and a .267 batting averagt·. 
But tht· Georgian turns 27 this summer, and he thinks time won't let him wait much longer for a chance to win a starting joh. 
"At times you just have to hold vourself on the bench, you want to get out there so badly.. .I enjoy being with the Reds but, hopefully, I'll get a chance to play somewhere some day." 
The Reds traditionally give their hackup players first chance at a regular opening. When Pete Rose left, Rlly Knight took over third base. 
When Joe Morgan departed, Junior Kennedy and Ron Oester competed for second base. 
Spilman sees little chance of a repeat situation, barring a trade or serious injury. 
"There's just no room for me to break into the lineup," he said. "Dan (Driessen) is one of the best first. basemen in the league. Ray (Knight) has had two solid years. I'm just in the position that I can't really do anything. I'm trying to stay in shape and prove to them when I get a chance that I can do it." 
Spilman, mentioned in off-seasoQ trade speculation, said he would welcome a trade if it meant a chance to play every day. 
"But if I'm going to sit the hench (in another city) I'd rather stay here. I'm on a pennant contender." 
The Reds signed free agent Larry Biittnerover the winter, giving them another left-handed hitting first baseman. Spilman thought the move would strengthen the hench, but he wasn't sure whether it would cut in­to his already slim playing time. 
"I know Larry plays first base a lot," he said"I'Il have to wait until the season starts to see how Mac (Manager John McNamara) uses him." 
Although Spilman's one-year con­tract expires after this season, he esn't have enough years of ex­perience to qualify as a free agent. 
"I'm r~ally in a position where I can't do that much," he said. 
Detroit. 
"We're not going to try to kid anybody -our goal this spring is to get to the national championships," says Notre Dame coach Sharon Petro, who guided the Irish to a 13-2 fall campaign. "If our players con­tinue to improve the way they did in the fall there's no reason we can't make it.'' 
To get there, the Irish will have to finish first or second in the regional. The Division II national champion­ship is scheduled for June 10-13 in Charleston, S.C. Notre Dame never has advanced to the national tourna­ment. 
Notre Dame will challenge Long Beach State's "B" team, Loyola Marymount, Whittier College, Gold­en West and Denver before return­ing home. The Irish then have a two-week layoff before a weekend jaunt to Michigan to take on Michi­gan, Wayne State and Michigan State April I 0-12. 

Petro will be extremely anxious to monitor the progress of her squad, especially senior Cindy Schuster (Des Moines, Iowa) and junior Mary Lcgeay (Evansville, Ind.). Both players suffered tendon damage in their wrist during the fall campaign. Schuster, who posted a 13-9 record at number one singles for the Irish, suffered the less severe of the two injuries, and should be ready to go. 
But Legeay, who boasted marks of 9-1 at fifth singles and 15-0 at num­ber two doubles, was unable to work out for much of the winter months after wearing a brace for the latter portion of the fall season. She's back 
Future looks bright for youthful U.S. figure skaters 
By BETSY KENEDY AssociatedPress Writer , 
HARTFORD, Conn. (AP)-In the words of figure skating coach Don Laws, "It was somewhat of a banner year" for the United States at the 1981 World Figure Skating Cham­pionship. 
The one gold and two silver medals won by skaters Scott Hamil­ton, David Santee and Elaine Zayak, respectively, represented the best showing by an American squad in world competition in recent years. 
The Americans just barely lost an­other medal in the final ice dancing event Saturday night when Judy Blumberg and Michael Seibert took a fluky and uncharacteristic tumble to the ice. 
The move cost them their third­
place standing to Natalia Be­
stemianova and Andrei Bukin of the 
Soviet Union in a tie-breaker 
determined by the winner of the 
free-dance. 
And with Santee the only American competitor here considering retiring before the 1984 Olympics, American skating experts have high hopes for their squad over the next several years. 

For the ladies, young American national champion Zayak, with her astounding array of seven triple jumps, won a silver medal and plans more jumps for next year, despite some criticism that she should ac­quire more grace and style. 
in action now, and will return to her doubles spot with freshman Pam Fis­chette (Liverpool, N.Y.), where they were unbeaten in the fall. 
Her status at numher five singles is less certain. If Pt·tro elects to hold Legeay out of singles, junior Tina Stephan (Barrington, Ill.) will fill in. The remainder of Notre Dame's fall lineup will remain intact -Schuster at first singles, sophomore Linda Hoyer (Port Clinton, Ohio) at second, Fischette at third, where she was 17-0 in the fall, junior Carol Shukis (LaGrangt·, Ill.) at fourth, and junior Peggy Walsh (Midland, Mich.) at number six. 
Hoyer and Stephan will comprise Notre Dame's top douhlcs tandem, with senior captain Sheila Cronin (West Chicago, Ill.) and junior Stasia Obremskey ( Lehanon, Ind.) filling the bill at numher three. 
Now hirin!(for mana!(ement positions in new excitin~: compan_y. vidio disc, salary & communications 259-3156 

Will Train 


The Observer 


New asistant coach 
Gillenvoices support 
By GARY GRASSEY floor. than too soft. The voice hdps when AssistantSports Editor "This year, Timmy (Andree) and you're coaching because you know Joe (Kleine) have been asked to play people are hearing you. They may The underground pipeline of defense, rebound and get follow-up not be listening, but they hear you." 
Notre Dame assistant basketball shots. These guys were All­
Gillen's vocals have probably

coaches with roots in Digger Phelps' Americans in high school, so it's . 
saved Digger an early bout with high

native Eastern (New York­tough for them. I've got to help blood pressure as well. 
Philadelphia) turf continued to pump them up and keep reminding grow with the addition of 33-year­them to do their job for now. Next 
"Pete's voice has been good for old Brooklyn-ite Pete Gillen to the year, they'll be asked to score more 
me," jokes Phelps. "I can tone down Irish stafflast summer. when the seniors (Kelly Tripucka, 
my own voice and be less boisterous Orlando Woolridge, and TracyJack­
The red-headed Gillen has been in practice at times now." In line associated with Phelps since son) are gone." Digger's days at Fordham when Ken­with former Phelps assistants who
If nothing else, Gillen has es­
ny Charles, a product of Brooklyn have moved on to head coaching
tablished a calling card ofsorts in his 
Prep High and a guard on the Rams' jobs of their own during the last ten
daily retinue at practices and on the 
26-3 NCAA tourney team, "bragged years, Gillen seems to be progress­
sidelines in game situations. The 
about one of his old high school ing towards that end. In the past nine
Pete Gillen 'voice' has been echoing
coaches," says the new Irish assis­years, Gillen has moved from the
through all corners ofthe ACC since 
tant. high school ranks to a one-year tour
his first day behind a desk in the bas­
The relationship prospered when at Hawaii and two seasons at both
ketball office. It's the kind of voice 
Gillen moved on to assistant posi­VMI and Villanova.
drill sergeants and coaches use to 
tions at VMI ( 1976-78) and Vil­"I don't like moving around, but
make soldiers and players devote in­
lanova ( 1978-80). when you get a chance to move up
ordinate attention spans to the job at 
"I've been watching Pete these you've got to take it the way you
hand. last four years at summer camps would in any business," says Gillen. back East," says Phelps, "because "Going from Villanova to Notre
"It's the way I talk normally," I've seen the kind of job he's done at Dame was a big step up and someday
laughs Gillen. "A speech analyst VMI and at Villanova under Rollie once told me I just have a naturally 
I'd love to be a head coaclh. I don't deep, loud voice that really carries.
Massimino. His enthusiasm, dedica­have any timetable, but if I find a 
tion, and hard work there automati­"I speak from down here," he con­program that needs me, I'll be glad cally qualified him as one of the top tinues with a gesture to his ab­to have the job." choices in the country to join our Even if he manages to. keep his
domen. "When I was a kid, my staff." 
mother used to know I was coming voice down, Pete Gillen will be Ralph Sampson of Virginia and Orlando Woolridge may face Gillen's emphasis in his brief home when I was half a mile away. heard from in basketball coaching each otheragain soon ifboth teams win theirfirst two games in the 
tenure at Notre Dame has centered But I suppose I'd rather be too loud circles in the years to come. NCAA tournament. on scouting the opposition and spending hours before and after practice working with the big men on their inside games. 
"I scout 60-to-65 percent of our games and work on those prepara­tions," Gillen explains. "But I do en­




McLaughlin keeps an even keel 
joy working with the big guys. I had a couple big guys early in my high school coaching tenure and I By MARK HANNUKSELA Europe. 
happens, happens. Ifhe has to adjust, you with housing and a car. If he 
worked with them at VMI and Vil­Sports Writer 
And throughout the 45-minute in­he does. No problem. didn't have that much, then youlanova. You've got to have guards terview, he maintains that same 
McLaughlin's career has just been would get a little less. The pressuresand big men, but I really feel you win He sits in one of the two brown even keeled disposition that might one laid back affair. He went from and the demands aren't as great as 
or lose with your front court leather chairs that are a part of his 
lead one to suspect that not even a life in the Big Apple to life in the over here. You play only 40 games,
people." Digger feels Notre Dame office decor, rather than in the person running through the hall small college town of Amherst, and all the traveling is done on has improved in a couple phases of brown leather swivel chair behind shouting "Fire," could arouse him Mass., the home of the University of 
weekends, mostly by train. 

because doesn't like
the inside game this season. his desk, he from his seemingly permanent state Massachusetts. "Playing in Europe wa" one of the "We've been playing better post desks. "Too confining," he says. oftranquility. A of "The
teammate Doctor," greatest experiences of my life. It
defense this year and I like the way The abundance of basketball That college studentcommon Julius Erving, he helped lead U Mass was a very easy way to make the our big people are taking the ball to magazines laid out on a coffee table neologism that is synonymous with to three NIT bids, while averaging transition from college to working atthe glass," says the Irisl;t coach. "I between the two chairs reflect his words like mellow, calm, and easy­double figure point totals through­a job. I made friends over there that I think the players really respect Pete keen interest in the sport that has going, is a perfect way to describe out his career. 
still keep in touch with. My wife and for his hard work and knowledge of been a part ot nis life since his days Notre Dame Assistant Head Basket­went
From college, McLaughlin I even thought ofliving over there." the game." on the playgrounds of New York ball Coach Tom Mcl..aughlin. on to the relaxed life that a profes­McLaughlin, was not bothered byGillen adds, "A lot oftimes, the big City. Servingin his third year as an assis­sional basketball player in Europe the fact that he was in a country 
guys are sensitive. When some­He talks, in a thick eastern accent, tant to Digger Phelps, McLaughlin is enjoys. He averaged 34 points a where the spoken language was un­body's 6-8 or 6-I 0 everybody ex­about his adjustment to life as a 
one of those guys who just kind of game in his first season, leading the familiar to him. "I learned to speakpects them to be dominating the professional basketball player in takes everything in stride. Whatever Swiss team of Neuchatel to a third French," he says. "You have to. place finish among a 30-team field. When you're in a country, and all 
McLaughlin then undertook the you can speak is English, and they role of player-coach his second don't speak English, you just learn to season, and while his scoring adjust." average slipped to 28, he still Adjusting is something Tom managed to take his team to a re­McLaughlin has been doing all his spectable fifth place finish. life. As a boy, basketball was, for him, 
When an assistant coaching job "an easy way to escape from New opened up back in the states, York City. It was also something McLaughlin returned. He worked everybody did, so in that sense, it for former Notre Dame assistant was part ofgrowing up." Dick DiBiaso at Stanford for three Upon entering U Mass, McLaugh­years, until an assistant coaching lin was facing another adjustment. position became available under "I was like any other kid entering Phelps. college," he says. "I didn't know 
"Everything just kind of fell into what I wanted to do, where I was place for me," said McLaughlin. "I going. I was away from home. Bas­guess you could say I happened to ketball helped me get through col­get lucky." lege and being away." 
While McLaughlin may have been There was also the adjustment of lucky, he certainly didn't prove to be living in a foreign country, and learn­very good at long range planning. ing a new language. There was the But then, planning didn't prove to be readjustment to life back in the really important. Things just came United States. And there was the ad­along and that was that. justment to life in the smaller towns 
"I originally wanted to be a of Palo Alto, Cal., and South Bend, lawyer," he says of the political Ind. At least it seems like it would science degree he obtained from U require some adjustment to move Mass. "I was going to go to law from New York to South Bend. school, but then the opportunity to "I think South Bend is a great play in Europe came along." place to live," says McLaughlin, 
McLaughlin is smiling now, as the seriously. "The people here are memory of days spent abroad great. I like the idea of living in a returns. smaller town, a rural environment. I 
"Life over there is very low key," would never move back to New he says. "If the owner of your team See COACH, page 13
was wealthy, then he might provide 


Sports .:l=~=r=i::::e-..J:.S=====t============T=h=ur=sd=a=y,=M=ar=c=h=l=2,=1=9s=I==Pa=8=e::::::1115 

by The ObJl'rl't'r .wd The AHfiOtJied Prc·rr 
The deadlinefor sign-ups for lnterhall men's anc ~omen's softball and basketball, as well as baseball and graduate softball Is March 13. Rosters must be turned In to the non-varsity office at the ACC. 
Notre Dame'sWater PoloClub will begin practice Monday, March 23, from 4-6 p.m. at the Rockne Memorial. For more information contact Pat McDivitt at 8650. 
The Notre Datne hockeyteam had its annual ban­quet Tuesday night In the Monogram Room ofthe ACC and the follow· ing awanls were presented. The team's most valuable player award went to junior, Jeff Logan. He was also presented with the National Monogram Club's MVP honor. Logan, along with classmate Dave Poulin was named team co-captains for the 1981-82 season. Bill Rothstein and John Schmidt were named alternate captains. Jeff Brownschldle was named the team's best defensive player while fresh· 
man Tony Bonadio received the rookie of the year trophy. Mark Doman was honored as the most improved player on the squad while the St. Joe Valley Notre Dame club gave Scott Cameron its scholar­athlete award. Kevin Humphries was the recipient ofthe Ed McGauley Award for the team's outstanding senior while Don Lucia was given theJohn Whitmer award. 
• • .Baseball 
continuedfrom page 16 
"Jimmy hits the ball well. He hit .31 0 as a freshman so we have a lot of confidence in him In his replacing Voellinger," says Gallo, "but we know that all the guys breaking into starting roles or in the important backup positions can do the job for us." 
In the outfield, the South Bend connection of Senior George lams ( .304,35 runs scored for second best on team) and Dan Szajko (.320, 23 RBI's) return after they both started all 3 7 games last year. 
"They do so much more for us then just hit," explains Gallo, "They're both super on defense and they can run like crazy which is great because I like a running type of game. You'll see a lot of hit and run plays for us this year given the situa­tion." 
As mentioned Chryst will play some in the outfield -when someone named Mike Jamieson doesn't. 

Captain Jamieson, who played mostly as the designated hitter last year, will be a key figure in leading this team which may be the groundwork for a future strong tradition in Irish baseball. Last year he led the club in hits ( 44) while placing second in batting average (.358) and RBI's (33). 
"He is by far our best contact hit· ter," praises Gallo, "He's very consis· tent and can spray his hits everywhere. He's also a great leader which is important since we're basi­cally young and still have many un­tested players." 
So, where does the team go from last year then? 
"Last year we e5tablishd winning which was important since we had four straight losing years in a row before that. This year any game we go to, the players now realize that it Is the other team that has to beat us. We'll lose some games, I'm not saying we won't, but we won't dwell on it. It's just like last year where we lost a doubleheader and then won 14 straight. 
"It's not a cockiness that we have but a very quiet confidence," con­tinues Gallo, "We're going to take every game as it comes and not just dwell on an NCAA bid, which is our major goal or goals. Our confidence level is very strong right now and if we do well at the start of the season and throughmtt it can only get stron­ger." 
The grqundwork is laid for a strong tradition in Notre Dame baseball. Construction begins Sun­day. 


recent game. 
Mize, Foster join Hall ofFame 
By WILL GRIMSLEY this might be my year. I wa~ in the seeing me in the IIall of Fame. Associated Press Writer house, listening to the 12 o'clock "Last year would have been fine. news, and when there was no an­But now she just recognizes me and 
TAMPA, Fla. (AP) -''I'd already nouncement I got up and went out doesn't realize what's going on any give up -I told my wife, 'Well, in the yard to move some lumber," more than the man in the moon." that's another year gone,"' Big John he added by telephone from his Mize and Foster were elected by Mize said Wednesday after being home in Demorest, Ga., 90 miles the Veterans Committee, which tardily notified that he had been from Atlanta. reviews those players who fail to elected to baseball's Hall of Fame "I'm just sorry that it didn't come receive the honor in the normal .ZO­along with a pioneer of the Negro earlier. My mother, Emma, is in the year period by the Baseball Writers Leagues, Rube Foster. hospital after having both legs Association of America following a 
' "I was hopeful because people removed with five operations and five-year wait after the players' were calling me yesterday, saying she had always looked forward to retirement. 
...-------..-·--·--------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Ali ' ·.,~·,tin•O art!'! n ,l&t fll' •ecel\1t-d bv 4 45 p "' rwrJ .1aws pr•o· '0 thE' ·~M•t< ,, V\rh 1"11 the il.l ·~ r,jP Tt,~ Observer off1c.e ~\·II rt.:CP.P' ~ 1 .HSIIIec:Js MmHin~ throuun F•.. itt~; 11)('1C) J r-·o 4 45 u ~· .l.fl classlf•eds 'Tiust be 
prt;>·,h11d Po!hP• 111 t•'''i01• or Thfuu~·~ 'he m.:td



Classifieds 
[NoTICES~ 
USED & OUT-OF·PRINT BOOKS bought. sold. searched ERASMUS BOOKS. Tuea-Sunday. 12·8. 1027 E Wayne (One block south of Eddy­Jefferson 1ntaraect1on) 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Emergency loans lor NO students $20· S200 One percent interest. Due In one month. Open 11:30-12:30 M-F. Base­ment ol LaFortne. Final day lo sen1ors lo apply IS Friday. March t3. 
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS RINGS $20·$85 OR MORE WE MAKE HOUSE CALLS. 255·2402 
NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR FOOD AND COCKTAIL WAITRESSES; WAITERS, HOSTESS. AND CASHIER. WOULD LIKE EMPLOYEES WILLING TO STAY THROUGH THE SUMMER. APPLY IN PERSON CAPTAIN ALEXAN· DER'S MOONRAKER.3-5 PM WEEK­DAYS,300 E. COLFAX DO NOT CALLI 
OVERSEAS JOBS -Summer-year round. Europe, S.Amer.. Australia, Asia. All lields. $500-$1,200 monthly Slghtseemg. Free lnlo. W11te IJC. Box 52·1N4. Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. 
Unlimited Income as you grow With Nao Life. For appomlmanl. call B1ll McDonald al259-6959 
Le Antique Consignment Shop, South Bend Ave. al Noire Dam'! Ave .. Bar ar· lllacla, books. bellies. m1sc. IIams. 
.. oi'f'~ciiMi>us sr'ui:i'EN'Ts······ 
PROTECT YOUR VALUABLES I O.C. Storage Wed. & Thrua. 
5·7p.m. (sponsored by Student Government) 

AVAILABLE NEXT SCHOOL YEAR: 2 FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES 234 2626 
~rge house f~·r renl, lurnished. Sullable lor 5. Will be available June 1 Call232_..12. 
H~·~;;·;·~;·;;~j"ijj':ij2·~~h-ool year and aummer. Clo88 lo campus. gd. end. lurn. Call287·53111aller6 p.m. 

FOUND· Brown warm-up lop. in lhe Volunteer Services van. Call Mike. 1652. 
LOST -IN SMC CAFETERIA ­ITALIAN GRAMMAR BOOK -small, paperback losl Monday, March 2 ­VERY IMPORTANT THAT IT IS RETURNED -REWARD OFFERED. CALL 8477 or 41-4606 upon lind1ng. 
Found: 1 pall ol brown plasllc-rimmed glasses in lad1es' rest room, 1sl floor O'shag. Name tnside: Judith. Conlacl Pam 1361 lo claim. 
LOST -A biology n~lebook: I his IS crucial lo my career. II lound please return lo Mark al305 Sorln or call8542. REWARD Ill 
LOST: BLUE CANVAS WALLET in ACC men's locker room, 3·1Q·81. PLEASE return wallet, or more tmporlanlly. 11s conlenls (my ID, licenae,elc) lo e1lher lhe Psychology dept ollice in Haggar Hall, or lhe Counseling Center (41h floor Ad Bldg) -KEEP lhe cash con­tents as a reward. I JUSI wanl my ID's, elclll NO QUESTIONS ASKED. II you have info about 11s whereabouts, please contact Chuck Lepkowsky al 
1718 days, or 289-5964 ntghts. 
II you found alan su111ackel allhe Flan­ner screw-your-roommate please call 2t40. 
cWANT~ 
.................... ~ . . 
RIDE NEEDED FROM INDIANAPOLIS TO ND AFTER BREAK. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL 1254. 
Needed: R1de 10 St Louis lor Spring. Ca11Gailal41-4792. Thanks. 
JUDE QUINN for UNARC I 
..... .......................................... My ride lelllhrough and I DESPERATE· 
I.Y NEED A RIDE HOME TO FLORIDA Call David 287-6986 
HELPII NEED A RIDE TO DETROIT FRI 13 MAR AFTER 2 PM. WILL SHARE:$. JIM3349 
......................................... 
Do you need a 11da lo Houston, TX. or nearby? Call Mike 268-1554. 
···························-··-······-·..····-········..····· 
I NEED RIDERS I 
Anyone who needs a ride back to 
Notre Dame on Sunday. March 22. and 
who lives in Atlanta. Chattanooga, 
Nashville, LoUisville, Indianapolis. or 
anywhere in~between those cities, 
please call Scoop al 1772, oral home 
during break al (404) 491-1294. I'll be 
taking a slat ion wagon back lo ND so 
I'll have lois ol room, and I'm 
notoriously cheap, so it won't cost you 
much. So. don't delay, call todayIll 
Desperately need ride to Cincinnati lhis week -can leave anyt1me. Call Mark. 3207. 
Need ride lo Costa Mesa, LA area. Share anything. If I don't gel oul of So. Bend, I'll crack I Call4521. 
R1de lo Cleveland needed on Friday or Saturday, will share expenses. Call 8156 
NEED RIDE FROM BOSTON TO NO AF· TEA BREAK. WILL SHARE DRIVING AND ALL EXPENSES. CALL MIKE 3549. 
NEED RIDE TO D.C. AREA Thurs. alter­noon or taler. Call Pete al 1184 anytime. 
NEED RIDE TO PHOENIX. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL MARK 3303 
Need ride 10 Dallas for break. Call John Higgins al 8553 or 1715 and leave a message. 
Need ride lo Dallas area lor break. Will share cosl and driving. Call Mike al 
31os. -----, 


[FOR SALE 
'7·1··vy;·~i·~·.·a~·~d Condition. Call 7013 days. 616·699·7176, niles. 
19


PERSONALS 
OFF·~AMPUS STUDENTS PROTECT YOUR VALUABLES 
O.C. Storage Stepan Center Wed. & Thurs. 
5-7 p.m. (Sponsored by Student Government) New Copy Editors-You must pick up some cruc1al handouts before you leave lor break, prelerably TODAY! There will be a meeting Tuesday. March 24 al 7 p.m. in lhe newsroom. Old copy editors musl also allend. 
Jeff Jeffers is very ugly. 
Nobody is uglier than Jeff Jeflers. 
PRO BURKE FOR UMOC PRO BURKE FOR UMOC PRO BURKE FOR UMOC 
ATTN. JUNIORS Sign up Ieday for your SENIOR YEAR­BOOK PHOTO by calling x3557 or STOP by 2c LaFortune (oil lhe ball· room bel ween 9 · 5). 
BUMPERSTICKER 
(1) 
WHEN YOU SAY NOTRE DAME. YOU'VE SAID IT ALL' 

(2) 
WHEN YOU SAY IRISH. YOU'VE SAID IT ALL' $2.00 each. Send check or money or­derlo: 


IRISH" P.O. BOX3364 CHAPEL HILL, N.C. 27514 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY JIM MacLENNAN !II 
BRASSILS GO HOMEIIII 
Bill Grizz' Nellis! -The man dogs use for a lire hydrant I 
LADIES! staying al school during lhe break because of no rides? Well do nol despair because Beres and Luis will be here. Call3045 or 3052 and logelher we can make this break one lhe GREATEST EVER. 
WORLD CRUISES! A COTTAGE ON LIOO FOR THE ENTIRE SUMMER! A MOUNTAIN CHALET II wish lhall could pay you enough lo lake me home lhal these could be yours. I can·l, bull CAN share gas and driving lo So, Cal, Los Angeles area.llravelllghl and will wor­ship lhe ground you drive on. Call BOB 814521. 
ATTENTION FRESHMEN SIGN-UP FOR SOPHOMORE LITERARY CHAIRMAN AFTER SPRING BREAK I 
ATTENTION ALL ASSASSINS!!! . ATTENTION ALL ASSASSINS Ill 
Meel Your Assassm Pat" Monday. March 23... the day alter break. A.. Group go to Flanner Partyroom B" Group go lo Holy Cross Hall's Par· lyroom. 9 PM. Allendence MAN· DATORYI Pick up guns and f11sl ass1gnmenls. Questions? A's call god al8641. B's call St. Peter al 8882. Shoot straight. 
Needed. lwo people lo share hotel room ON THE STRIP 1n Fori Lauderdale over break. Call Dusly or Barb, 4-t-4211. 
TOM JACKMAN EATS POACHED PUPPIES FOR LUNCH Ill 
... Ugh...Cough.. Gag... Who CHOKED Pam H.? Wasil really M.M.? Find oul at Lee's 1on1ghl.. Be there, Aloha! 
Bob Fiordallso. Why are you doing lh1slo me? How can you be so hard-hearted and cruel? 
ow 
TIM RONAN FOR UMOC TIM RONAN FOR UMOC 
Rick B.. here's your own private per­sonal. Now w111 you behave In Arl Trads? 
Bernte & Molly 
Q: Who inves11ga1es Moose murders'" Ihe Yukon? 
A: The homooseide squad, of cour881 
(sigh, jusl sigh) Moose Control 
P.S. Beware: The Restless Herd is com­IngI 
GET AHEAD JOIN THE CREWI NOW II 
Ann c. gel a clue. love SS13 
........... and FAME;IIIII 
........................., ... , ......................... 
IF YOU'VE EVER SEEN AN UGLIER MAN THAN PRO BURKE, YOU PROBABLY CAN'T SEE ANY LONGER PRO IS REALLY UGLY. LISTEN. I'VE KNOWN THE MAN FOR ALMOST 4 YEARS AND I CAN HARDLY SEE ANY MORE. MAKE SURE YOU SAVE THOSE PENNIES FOR PRO BURKE PRO BURKE PRO BURt<E 
THE UGLIEST MAN OF CAMPUSifll VOTE PRO TOM JACKMAN EATS SCRAMBLED SEALS BREAKFAST!!! 
Dear K' 
Thanks lor a greai81X months. 
Hope you'll always be w11h D" 
How can you say lhal Kelly Tripucka has lhe Best Body on Campus? You obv1ousty haven I mel Dreamy Scally 
Merror.Merror. 
On lheWall. 
Who's the ugliest 
ol them all? 
Jell Jailers, lar and away 
Peggy, Teresa. and Mary Beth Have a great lime in Flonda. I'm sure I here Will be many people anxious lo check oul your tan lines when you return. You'd beller nol dl&appomllheml 
BRUCE BARRON: Ever s1nce ll11slla1d 
eyes on you. I ve wanted lo getlo know 
you. Why don I you ever talk lo me? 
Hopelully, we can gel logelher alter 
break 
Lov1ng you lrom alar MOLLY 
PEGGERT(?). While you re runntn. sunnm', and lunnln '" Lauderdale. guess where I II be? Hopefully In AI· lanla. bul who knows. I m1ghl end up sludymg here 1n beautiful(?) South Bend. Should be awesome< I'll slop babbling now-beSidAs I've gotlo catch a plane. Have a great lime. and slay away from lhe Poop Deck. Your real­lila SMILEY. 
Ann, For the sake ol your analytical books. go lo Semor Bar Thursday n1ghl 
John 
HAPPY HOUR Spring break parlymg slarls w11h HAP­PY HOUR al IRISH COUNTRY (on lhe corner of N.D. Ave. and S.B. Ave.) 3­7pm THURSDAY 3 DRAFTS-$1.00 PITCHER·$2 00 
STAYING FOR BREAK? CATCH ALL FIGHTING IRISH NCAA TOURNEY GAMES AT IRISH COUNTRY. HAPPY HOUR DURING EVERY GAME. GREEN BEER SPECIAL ON ST PATIY'S DAY. 
TOM JAC:i<"M"ANeArs.......<iriitii 
CASSEROLE FOR DINNER Ill 
FANTASY ISLAND DOES EXIST. WE WILL NOT BE THREATENED I THE FOURTH FLOOR 



,SRQrts 
Thursday, March 12, 1981 -page 16 
Irish baseball 


Gallo seeks W"inning tradition 


By LOUIE SOMOGYI 

Sports Writer 
Before the start of the 1980 
baseball season, Dr. Tom Kelly em­
phasized an important message to 
what he knew could be a talented 
baseball squad -"believe in your­
selves." 
The result was an assault on the 
record books unsurpassed in Irish 
baseball laurels, including: 
The most wins ever ( 29) to only 
eight losses in a season. 
The best winning percentage 
(.783) since the 1936 team went 16­
3. 
A team batting average of .332 ­
bettering the .30I mark of 1958. 
Now, in 1981, Larry Gallo takes 
over as manager for the club after 
serving at the assistant position last 
year with the similar philosophies of 
his predecesor and the belief of 
starting a program with a con­
tinuous winning tradition. 
"I think a lot of people see our program on the upswing," says the first year mentor, "I think we should have been in the NCAA tournament last year. I know that sounds like sour grapes, but there were also other teams that thought that we should have gotten a bid." 
The 'upswing' can be seen espe­cially in terms of the 48 game schedule this year which will be, by far, the most in a single season for an Irish baseball team. The season will start off Sunday against Christian Brothers College in Tennessee followed by a doubleheader on 
Monday against Delta State of Divi­
sion ll and a single game onTuesday. 
Then the road show spills over to 
Mississippi for single duels on Wed­
nesday and Thursday before concluding against Memphis State on Friday. 
"I know that that doesn't sound like traditional powerhouses like a Michigan or USC, but baseball is not like football or basketball. The talent can spread to anywhere in baseball. There are a lot of junior college teams in the country, especially like 
in a place like Florida, that could just 
whip many Division I teams. Believe 
me this is going to be a good road 
test for us and we'll find out a lot. 
"Christian Brothers has a good little program down there while Delta State may be one of the best teams in Division II. From what I've heard their hitting is just awesome so our pitching (perhaps the strong suit of the team) will be tested. Memphis State meanwhile is regarded as the premier power in the Metro which is saying something 
because Florida State is also from the Metro and they were in the College World Series last year. 
Off-Campus loses 


1 by default 
Due to an ineligible player used in the Tuesday night A­division playoff game by the Off·Campus team, Howard Hall has been declared the winner of this year's Interhall A-Division Basketball Championship. The Off-Campus squad was forced to forfeit the game in which the ineligible player participated. This forfeit gave the 0-C squad their second loss in the double­elimination tournament. The basketball crown marks the third straight interhall cham· pionship earned by Howard. 
"But this is what we need for our program. We have to continue to beef up our schedule. This year we've added Purdue and Ball State which are from two of the best con­ferences in college baseball and I hope in the future we can get a Mich­igan or Central Michigan on our schedule." 
Pitching is regarded by Gallo as the main strength for this years edi­tion for two big reasons -seniors Mike Deasey and Bob Bartlett. 
Deasey, the main ace, finished with a 6-2 mark last year while also accumulating eight saves and the team's top ERA of2.39. His control is also a main asset as he gave up only 11 walks in 52 2/3 innings pitched. 
Bartlett put together a 4-1 record earning six saves along the way while accumulating a 3.89 ERA and led the team with 37 strikeouts in only 34 2/3 innings. 
"Deasey and Bartlett have just been doing great in practice," says Gallo, "but right now Bryan Smith (junior, 4-1, five saves, 4.05) is throwing as well as anybody for us. Our young sophomore Steve Whit­myer had an excellent fall (in which the Irish went 8-4-1 ) and also has been coming along. All four have to be ready to relieve also but we're going to have a real stopper in soph­omore Steve Gallinaro. He has the ideal temperment for relievers and has tremendous confidence and can really throw the strikes. 
"Our pitching has been progress­ing very well. Last year our total ERA was 4.50 and before that the best was 5.SO. This fall we got it down to 

A strong defense is also a basis for optimism for Gallo for improved pitching despite the vacancioes that were left at third base and shortstop positions. 
Tim Prister, a junior transfer from Indiana, has won the inside track at the hot corner while fellow clas­smate Joe Barrows will split shortstop duties with sophomore Rich Chryst. Chryst will also spend time in the outfield. 
Second base is nailed down solid­ly with junior Chuck Tasch (.354 average and 17 RBI's at the lleadoff position last year) and backup Scott Siler who Gallo describes as "the best student of the game on our team from the shoulders on up." 
Junior first baseman Henry Valen­zuela (.268, three HR's, 26 RBI's) will begin his third straight year as a starter at first. 
"His batting mark is not indicative of what a great hitter he really is. There were some that he drilled last year that were outs because ofgreat stabs. He's our best pure hitter." 
The large shoes of graduated catcher Dan Voellinger (.345, five HR's, 38 RBI's and now in the New York Yankee farm system) will be handled by senior Jim Montagano who was out all of last year with an 

Mark Aguirre and Orlando Woolridge will be common sights in 
injury. 
the NCAA Tournament this weekend. See pages 7-10 for NCAA Supplement. (photo byjohn Macor)
See BASEBALL, page 15 



Lacrosse team faces varsity test 
How can a 17-year-old team and a 10-year veteran coach have an in­augural season? 
Grant them varsity status and it's a whole new lacrosse game. 
The game invented by North American Indians and glorified on Canadian and New England fields for years has been granted varsity status after a 17-year sojourn as a club sport at Notre Dame. The team faces its initial varsity test on Saturday, March 14, when it faces off against Radford University on the first leg of a four-game spring trip. 
"I'm not going to deceive anyone and say we're jumping into this thing to become the nextJohns Hopkin!>,"' says Irish coach Rich O'Leary, the man who has guided the Notre Dame stickmen so ably as a club for the last 10 years. "But we have a chance, right away, to be a repre­

sentative team in the Midwest." 
The Irish also face Washington and Lee's junior varsity team on March 16 at 4 p.m., while they are entertained by Johns Hopkins Uni­versity's junior squad on March 18 at 4 p.m. The Irish· round out their spring swing against Morgan State on March 20 before returning to campus for a March 25 scrimmage against Purdue. 
"Tim and Moe (Beshlian) are ex­
tremely gifted lacrosse players," says 
O'Leary. "In fact, Tim Michels is 
probably the most gifted player we 
have had at Notre Dame in terms of 
all-around skills." 
Michels, a native of Lacrosse-rich 
Baltimore, Md., has filled many a 
shoe (and held many a stick) during 
his Irish career. When needed, he 
has played at various midfield and 
defense positions, and he exhibits a 
tremendous knowledge ofthe game. 
Yet Michels may be assuming an­other position for the Irish this spring. Head coach Rich O'Leary, faced with no overwhelming can­didate for goalie, has moved Michels into the crease the past few days of practice and may make that Michels' home for the year. 
"So far he has worked out quite well," explains O'Leary. "Tim pos­sesses a lot ofnatural quickm:ss with his hands and has good sense for the game. He has not had much trouble at all picking up the position. 
"Because ofour depth on defense, losing him from that position should not hurt us that much." 
O'Leary will call on junior Dave Lewis (Morris Plains, N.J.) and either Pat Jank (Watertown, N.Y.) or Rich Wickel (Weehawken, N.J.), both juniors, to round out the starting defense. 
Although attackmen are theoreti­cally the team's biggest scorers, two of last year's top three point totals belonged to midfielders. The trend should continue this year with the middies anchored by tri-captain Carl Lundblad. The top returning scorer from last year's club, Lundblad has been relied on heavily as an of­fensive weapon in his first three seasons at Notre Dame. 

Lundblad will probably be joined at midfield by sophomore Danny Pace (Summit, N.J.), who is coming offa sterling 14-goal, 12 assist rookie performance last year. Seniors Kevin Campion (Huntington, N.Y.) and Bob Durgin (Falls Church, Va), also should see considerable action alongside Lundblad and/or Pace. 
Two days and counting 
This was a frustrating day. 
First ofall we've got more injuries than I'd like to see right now. Orlando is still having problems with the thigh contusion he suffered on the Thursday before the Virginia game. People don't realize it but that was part of his problem against DePaul. Right now it's still bad and that could cause us real serious problems. 
Timmy Andree is having sotp.e problems with his back and that's not helping us right now either. Couple the injuries with midterms and you'll see that we only had nine guys on the court at one point during yester­day's practice. It's difficult preparing for two teams we're not that familiar with when we're having these kinds of problems. I'm very concerned about having everything learned by Saturday. 
This morning we put a game card together for Georgetown. That is the long piece of paper that lists everything we can do against the Hoyas and what they will try to do against us. I kc:ep it with me during the game. It's a quick reference that we use often. Tommy (McLaughlin)and I looked atJames Madison. They are a good ballteam that plays a tough slow-down game. 
By 2:00, after looking at films, answering the phone and doing radio interviews, I needed to get away for awhile, so I went down to Macri's Bakery. I love the Macri family and I just wanted to say hello. Oh, I did manage to sample a few of their pastries while I was down there. 
I picked up my son, Rick, at school around 2:30. I do that every day because I am away from home so often and I do love spending time with him. From the school we went shopping which is something I love to do be­cause it's a diversion. We got enough groceries/for the weekend because Terry and I will be in Provide11ce and the kids will be home with a babysitter. 


I got back to the office around 3 p.m. and there were hundreds ofphone messages waiting for me. I d,id a few radio interviews and everyone seems to ask the same questions: who are the favorites and how do I think we · will do? I answer all those questions the same way. In ' the NCAA's everyone's a favorite and I think we will do the best we can. I just hope that's good enough. 
Then to practice and I don't even want to talk about that anymore. It's frustrating and I'm conccrrned. But I'm not worried because I believe in our team and our staffand I believe in what we're trying to do: 
Last night I went home and spent time with my fami· ly. I don't get to do that very often, which is unfortunate because nothing makes me happier than being with Terry and the kids. But I was still thinking about Satur· day and the game. 




