----------~------------------------------------------------~------------------------­
• Anniversary -page 6 


VOL. XVI, NO. 3S THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1981
an independent srudent newspaper servtng norre dame and saint mary's 

WASIII:--IGTON (AP)-President lkagan will not attend the funeral of slain Egyptian leadt·r Anwar Sadat ht·caliSl' of fear for his own safety, but will st·nd a delegation including Jll three living limner American presitknts, a spokesman said yester­day. 
Pn·sidents Rit'hartl \1. Nixon, Cinald R Ford and Jimmy Cartn all agreed to go. They will be aceom­paninl hy Sn:n·tary of State Alexan­der .\1. llaig Jr., lkfl'nse Secretary <:aspar Weinberger and limner Secrl'lary of State Henry A. Kissin­ger. 
Al"ting on rhe unanimous advice of l I.S. security agencies, Reagan decided to remain home "with gn:at regret," communications director David Gergen said. Vice President George Bush abo will stay in Wash­ing!On hecause of the same security precautions applying to Reagan, (iergen said. 
Officials would not publicly dis­cuss the grounds for their concern but indicated they were troubled hy the uncertain political situation in Egypt, where Sadat was gunnesj down hy members of his own army Tuesday. 
A stat!: funeral will he held in Cairo on Saturday. 
Ciergen said that in weighing safety factors. U.S. security agencies had heen in touch with the American embassy in Cairo. 
Askt·d why it is unsafe li>r Reagan to attend hut acceptable for the rhrt·t· timner presidents. deputy prt·ss st.·cret:.try Larry Speakes said, "One is the president of-the United States. The others are former presi­dents." 
Technically. llaig will head the 
American delegation, which also in­
dudes U.N. Ambassador Jeane 
Kirkpatrick, a member of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff, and former Middle 
East negotiator Sol Linowitz. 
Also invited were Senate 
Rl·publican Leader Howard Baker of 
Tennessee. Senate Democratic 
Leader Robert Byrd of West Virginia, 
House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill of 
Massachusetts, House Republican 
Leadt·r Boh Michel of Illinois and 
Sen. Charles Percy, R-Ill, chairman of 
the Foreign Relations Committee. 
The three former presidents all accepted Reagan's offer, which also extended to their wives, said Speakes. Gergen said Rosalynn Car­ter will accompany her husband. 
All three presidents, along with 
the rest of the delegation, probably 
will tly on the same plane, departing 
the United States late today or early 
tomorrow, Speakes said. 
Reagan sent personal messages of condolence to Egyptian Vice Presi­dent Hosni ,\1.ubarak, Sadat's hand­picked successor. and parliament speaker Sufi Abu Taleh, the interim president, Speakes said. 
In addition, he said cables were sent to several unnamed allies and Middle East leaders sharing Reagan's feelings about Sadat's assassination and stressing the United States' "close relationship with Egypt and his desire that the Camp David peace process continue." 
Sadat 's successor 
Parliatnent endorses Mubarak 
CAIRO, Egypt (AP) -Egypt said sion, with the slain president's only He is expected to he sworn in Oct. yesterday that an "isolated" group of son, 25-ycar-old Gamal, rushing IS. Muharak was chosen hy Sadat in four soldiers including a Moslem 
home from a vacation in Florida. 1975 to be his vice president and fanatic assassinated President Anwar In Parliament, all .)30 votes 
eventual successor. Sadat, and the government quickly counted in the special session en­E~')'pt's defense minister was sit· scheduled a referendum next week 
dorsed Mubarak. Another 55 mem­ting next to Sadat on the reviewing to approve Vice President ·Hosni bers of parliament abstained, four stand when soldiers in a military Mubarak as Sadat's successor. were absent and three votes were parade commemorating the 1973 
Parliament held an emergency disqualified, officials said. war with Israel opened fire on the session to overwhelmingly endorse A two-thirds majority of the 392 president. the nomination that Egypt's ruling members of parliament, or 261 But conflicting accounts from party gave:: Mubarak within hours of votes, was needed to endorse 
See EGYPT, page 4 
Sadat's assassination Tuesday. Mubarak as Parliament's nominee. 
The Parliament's action meant Mubarak's name will be the only one on the ballot Oct. I 3. The date falls 
Reagan presses Senate
within Egypt's 60-day constitutional limit. Defense Minister Abdd Halim Abu Ghazala told reporters during a 
for passage of arms sale break in the parliamentary session that Sadat's assassins were not part of WASHINGTON (AP) -While a tion ofthe arms purchase-would sug­a coup plot but were "an individual House panel voted to reject his SH.5 gest that "equivocation and group and they are not even related billion arms sale to Saudi Arahia, uncertainty have become the to any group or country." President Reagan pressed the characteristic American style in the 
Secretary of State Alexander M. Senate's Republican majority with conduct of foreign policy." Haig Jr. echoed that assessment at a some success yesterday to reverse Haig recalled that Sadat recently news conference in Washington, the congressional tit.lt· against the had urged approval of the arms sale saying there was no evidence of ex­deal. \> Saudi Arabia and added that to ternal involvement in the assassina­"I need you, the country and the reject it "would make a mockery of tion. world need you on this decision." all President Sadat stood for." 
But Haig served notice to· Libya the president was quoted as telling A leader of the opposition to the and other radical Arab states 43 Republican senators at a White sale, Sen. Alan Cranston. D-Calit:, opposed to Sadat's peace treaty with House meeting that coincided with said his vote count still shows 55 Israel that the United States "would the 28-8 recommendation by the senators on committed or leaning to view with great concern" any at­House Foreign Affairs committee to his side. tempt to seize upon the assassina­cancel the transaction. "Ifa snowball was going to roll to tion to fan instability in the Mideast. After hearing Reagan's appeal, l'hange sentiment, it would have 
Haig will lead the U.S. delegation Sen. Alan Simpson of Wyoming, rolled yesterday or today," said to Sadat's funeral Saturday. President switched from thc.opposition ranks Cranston. Reagan will not attend for security to support ofthe sale. The president White House strategists long ago reasons, the White House said, but won a similar turnaround from Sen. wrote off any chance of preventing for01er Presidents Jimmy Carter, Orrin l;Iatch of Utah a day earlier. the House from voting against the Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford will In addition, six previously uncom­package. which includes t1ve accompany Haig. mitted senators declared yesterday AWACS radar planes. 
Israeli Prime Minister Menachem they would back the president. All The full House is expected to vote Begin also will attend the funeral, had been considered likely to take next Wednesday to acct·pt the com­and in a letter to Mubarak said, "We that position. mittel' recommendation hut unless arc confident that the legacy of They were John Warner, R-Va., the Senate concurs hy Nov. 1, the peace of President Sadat will live Jeremiah Denton, R-Ata., Richard sale will go through. on...This is a sacred trust we have to Lugar, R-Ind.. Strom Thurmond, R­Larry Speakes, White lloust· press fultlll." S.C., Gordon J Humphrey, R-N.H.. secretary, said that during tht· 75­
Sadat's hody was being held at and Harry F. Byrd, I-Va. minute meeting Reagan told the Maadi military hospital, and officials But Reagan's appeal failed to sway senators approval of the sale was said there were no plans for it to lie at least four Republican opponents "particularly important" in the light in state. They said it would he taken of the sale: senators Bob Packwood of rhe assassination of Egyptian ro a mosque near the parade ground of Oregon, John Danli>rth of Mis­President Anwar Sadat. in the ~ection of Cairo known as souri, Rudy Boschwitz of :VIinnesota Nasar City and inerred in a and Salde Gorton of Washington. Before Sadat's murtkr, Whitt· mausoleum ncar the reviewing Whik Reagan lobbied the Senate, House vote counts showed senti· stand in which Sadat was killed. Secretary ofState Alexander .\1.. Haig menr in the Senate running against 
Sadat's family remained in scdu· Jr. told a news conference that rejec· the ~ale. 
SAT, LSA T, etc. 
Nader questions standardized tests 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE 
News Staff 
Question: What do the letters "SAT' mean? 
a. 
Sometimes Accurate Test 

b. 
Segregate Automatically Test 

c. 
Senseless Ambigious Test 

d. 
Scholastic Aptitude Test 


The correct answer. is d. But if you answered a, b, or c, Ralph Nader would give you a USC GA ticket and a year's supply of consumer protec­tion books. 
Nader, who was at Notre Dame last week, is not the only one crying "thief' at the once unchallenged validity ofstandardized testing. 
The National Education Associa­tion, the National PTA, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, and several other groups have officially questioned the value ofstandardized tests in the past two years. 

The SAT, used for undergraduate admissions, has been the focus ofthe attack, but not immune are the Law School Admissions Test ( LSAT), the Graduate Record Exam (GRE), the Medical College Admissions Test (MCAT), and the Graduate Manage­ment Admissions Test ( GMAT). 
Nader and his employees published last year a 550-page con­demnation ofthe tests and the grand test-maker, the Educational Testing Service ( ETS ). 
Nader's book, "The Reign of ETS," claims that 90 percent of the time, the SAT, for example, predicts first year college grades no better than "a roll of the dice." "ETS has us all locked up into a test that doesn't look for creativity, stamina, motiva­tion, or ethics," Nader said. 
ETS maintains that their tests are useful tools in predicting perfor­mance ofstudents in undergraduate t or graduate schools. The Notre Dame Undergraduate Admissions Office, as well as various ND graduate admissions offices, tend to agree 
See TESTS, page 4 


Thursday, October 8, 1981 page 2 
AP Photo File 
REAGANS ii10URN: 

President and Mrs. Reagan standface to face on the north portico of the White House after the president read a statement on the death ofEgyptian President Anwar Sadat. In his statement Reagan said, "America bas lost a closefriend, the world bas lost a great states­
man and mankind has lost a champin ofpeace." 

CARTER REACTS: 
Reaction to Egyptian President Anwar Sadat's as­sassination camefrom many politicalfigures includ­ing former Presidentjimmy Carter. Carter spoke with reporters at an Atlanta television station after he taped an interview about PresidentSadat's death. Car­ter had become a close friend of Sadat's after they worked on the Israeli-Egyptian Peace accord at Camp 
David. 

This u•as the scene behind the reviewing stand shortly after thf attack on the parade stand. People ran for cover when the barragt began hut manv did not make it. Besides President Sadat, sez,er. others were kill;d and a reported 27 people were injured, includin[. three U.S. serz,icemen. 
REVIEWING STAND: 
This chart pinpoints the posi­
tion ofEgvptian President Anwar 
Sadat, Vice President Hosni 
Mubarak, and Defense Minister 
Abdel Halim Ghazalla in the 
reviewing stand where they were 
watching the military parade. Men dressed in army uniforms jumped out ofthe truck shaded on the diagram and opened fire on the stand. 
Sadat Assassination Diagram 
: : : 

: : MMitry Bands
................. . . . ............ 
:::::···········
................
.. . . . ........... 





1­The_Ohseryer_ 
o plov bv morsho normon 
Design Editor... . ........ \1onica Gugle 
GETTNG OUT
1Jesi1(n Assistants ...... Randy Rentncr Typesetter... .. .. Raymond lnglin .Veuls Editor. ...... Kdli Flint Copy Editor.... .. Dave Rickahaugh Features Layout.................... Tony \X'alton Sports Copr Editor ...... Skip Desjardin .\)•stems Control .. ........ llrucc Oakley .VD Dar Editor... .........kff .\lonaghan S.IJC /Ja)' l:"ditor. . ............ ecce Baliles Ad Oesi[<n ... ..... ~lark.~lary.Fran Photographer ...............Tonia Hap Guest Appearances..... .. :-lohody Showed 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays. except during exam and vacat1on penods. The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Marys Col­lege. Subscriptions may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by writ1ng The Observer. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
The Observer IS a member of The 
Associated Press. All reproduction 
nghts are reserved. 
Second class postage paid at Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556. 


-------------------------------·­The Observer Thursday, October 8, 1981 -page 3 
r---------------------·,...._______,.;;;;;.----, 
the rt.·gion and that we woulu treat it ............................. 
Oll'coruingly," he said. l:i::===========================tt 

••••••••••COUPONI•••••••••••••••• 
ATTENTION NOTRE DAME i 
C1 ST. MARY'S·sTUDENTS! ; 
I 
I The Easy Rider is g1ving you $f) ()() off any round trip ticket purchased for I 
I semester break. Thanksgiving. ur Christmas break. (Limit one coupon per ocket -offer I 
I expires December 24.) I
• 8•
:z: 
Obtain tickets from your favorite travel agent or any Umted L1mo uff1ce Coupon must2 be presented when buying ticket. Reservations must be made 4-H hrs. before departure c=
;g
= :z:
""" .. TRAVEL TO AND FROM $33 00 ROUND
•I •I
cmCAGO'S O'HARE ••• ONLY • TRIP 
I I I I I I 
I I I 
I UnitedLimo I 
Michiana Regional Airport Office Bittersweet Road Office I
I 
I 234-6000 255-3068 I 
I For further information Wrote· Father Andre Leveille. CSC Box 5.41 Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
•••••••••••••••NON·REFUNDABLE•••••••••••••• 
l 
Warns Arab nations 
Haig expresses U.S. intentions 
\VASIIINGT0;\1 (AI')-Secretary of State Alexander .\1. Haig.Jr. snved notke to Libya and other radkal Arab nations yesterday that the I:nitcd States "would view with great concern" any attempt to seize upon t!1e assas~ination ofEgypt's An­war Sadat to fan instability in the Mideast. 
tlaig ~aid also that America remains a full partner in the peacs proces!> initiated by Sadat, "this gigantic pt:rsonality," and is com­mitted to "pursut· hb work" toward a comprehensive Middle East settle­ment. He pledged full support to the Egyptian governmt·nt now headed by Hosni Muharak, Sadat's hand­pickt·d heir. 
The secretary of state also af­firmed the administration's determination to sell A WACs radar planes and other military gear to Saudi Arabia, saying the liH. S-billion package is now "more important than ever." As he spoke, Prt:sident Reagan met with virtually the entire Republican majority ofthe Senate in an attempt to reverse a congres­sional move against the sale. 
The House foreign Affairs Com­mittee, as expected, approved a resolution yesterday to veto the A WACs deal. The deal will go through unless both houses of Congrt·ss vote to veto it by Nov. 1. 
In a midday news contcrt:nce, llaig declared the United States "would view with great concern at this juncturt· any efforts by external powers to manipulate the tragic evt·nts ofthe last 24 hours." 
Of the Libyans, he !>aid In: had "no evidence of their involvement" in Sadat's slaying, even though the kvd anu character of"their rhewric would gin· one pause. We hopt" they would not he tempted." 
II ail( ohviou:-ly v. a~ referring to Uhya·~ pronounn.·mt.·nb in the wake of the assassination, including ~trongman :\-loammar Khadaty's (_'On­gratulations to tht.· men who killed Sadat and hb t.all for thl· Egyptian armed ti>rces ro take power and reverse the government's pro­\\ cstt·rn course. 
Moreovt.:r, Radio Tripoli urged Egyptians to revolt and said they "should march on the hospttal'' to destroy Sadat'~ body. 
Asked if he also was telling \los­cow to keep h;mds off, llaig said ht: did not intt:nd to imply "anything 
untoward." 
'I think tht· Soviet l nion know~ 
our po~ition. or fril'nuship and our rdationship with Egypt," llaig ~aid. "They know that wt· consider that rdationship vital to our interests in 
Haig said intelligence reports in­country." dicate Sadat's murder was an assas­sination. not a coup. :\1on·over, ht: Haig, who will lead the U.S. said, there is no evidence ofexternal delegation at the funeral ofSadat on involvement in the assassination. Saturday, said he may visit other 
Middle Eastern nations while on that 
In Cairo. Ddenst: .Minister Ahdel mission. He said no decision had 
Halim Abu Ghazalla was telling been made. Other State Department 
reporters: "there is no coup. It is an officials said his journey of reas­
individual group and they are not surance might take him to Israel, 
even related to any group or The Sudan, Saudi Arabia and Omar 
&llidarity Congress calls for price freeze 
GDANSK, Polanu (AP) Solidarity's liongress called for a freeze on prices yesterday and threatt:ned to stage a token nationwide strike if the Communist govunment does not comply. 
The resolution, in response to Monday's suddt:n doubling of cigarette prices, was adopted after the congress passed a 34-point so­cial and economic program aimed at giving workt:rs more say in the operation ofstate-run enterprises. 
Dekgates also voted to hold a "pt:ople's" tribunal of former government officials blamed for Poland's "downfall" if Communist authorities uo not prosecute them this year. 
The 18-day, two-part congress was expectnl to end late last night 
N.D.-S.M.C. Students 
u • p k Mall and
ntverstty ar
T d c
own an ountry-Mishawaka 
or early today in this Baltic port city where the independent union was f(>rmcd during crippling strikes last year. Union officials said many delegates were exhausted and suffering from the tlu. 
In its resolution on price freezes, the congress said the union's "struggle" for its own concept of economic reforms had met con­tinuned government opposition and that it "cannot tolerate this policy any mort:." 
It said prices should be frozen un­til the government and Solidarity agree to any raises, and demanded the government guarantee im­proved food supplies. 
Also, it appealed to all workers not to strike unless ordered to do so by Solidarity leaders. 
I I I I 
' 
~----------------------------~ 
t 
INTERESTED IN STUDYING LAW? I 
t t t
meet with Dean Ftancis X. 8eytagh 
tt 
(Notte Dame B.A. 1956 ) t
t
tof the Unlvetslty of Toledo -College of Law t t t ftiday oct. 9, 1981 t
t t at 2:00 pm ot 3:30 t t in tm. 222 administation building I 
t 
t
t 
t-----------------t 
~------~~~~~~~~~~-~~~-~--~
RIVER CITY RECORDS 1 
Northern Indiana's i.argest Selection of Albums & Tapes. I 
Why pay more any place else? 
I 
any regul~r r_ecord or tape with ad. 1 Ltmtt 1 per person
$1 00 OFF 1 
• • Expires Oct.3l ,1981 I
' 
50970 US 31 North eOpen till 1 0 every night I 3 miles North of Campus e ND/SMC checks cashed I next to Al's Supermarket up to $20 over I purchase amount 
I 
277-4242 • Record Crates available
IL 
~-=--~--------------~-~---e 
Career ln_fonnation 
rts & !~etters Career Day 1 
Thursday, October 8 12 noon to 4pm 
LaFortune Student Center 
nivers#y ofNotre Dame Placement Burea 

One Block South of Memorial Hospital 
Banjos
Guitars & Accessories Recorders&
Harmonicas Penny Whistles 
Pianos & Organs Sheet Music 
10% OFF EVERYTHING WITH THIS AD! NO LIMIT 
434 North Main Street-South Bend -233-1838 

The Observer Thursday, October 8, 1981 -page 4 
• • • Egypt 

Photography buffPaul Niner ofI/o ward Hall will do anythingfm that "perfect shot," even climb a tree in front of Walsh to catch a squirrel in its natural habitat. (photo hy Tonia Hap) 

ROLLING 
STOlES 
Special Guest:SANTANA 
Tues~ay -.December 1, 1981 *. 7:30p.m. Pontlac S1lverdome * Pontiac, :Michigan 
Special Charter Bus Pa.ck~' includes: 'round trip bus trusporution from 
River City Records to Pontia.c Si!verdcme. Bus depart.> at l:OOp.m., returns approx. 3:30 a.m. 
• 
Refreshments on bus 

• 
Ticket to T'lle Rolling Stones/Sut.ua 


$1.00 OFFl All Rolling Stones ud Sutana albums ud tapes now at both River City Records 
Limtted number of packag1! tickets now o» sale &t River City Records 50970 U.S. Jlllorth 
For more information call 277-4242 
continuedfrom page 1 
other witnesses with excellent vantage points left uncertain the ac­tual number ofassassins in the attack that killed at least six peopk and wounded at least 28. 
Abu Ghazala, who was wounded in the attack. did not specify how many ofthe assassins had been killed and how many arrested. hut an E~,'YP­tian military source said one of the four was killed. Another source said there were six attackers, one of whom was killed. 
However, Western military at­taches with an excellent view above the line offire. said there were seven or eight people involved in the at­tack -all armed with Soviet-made Kalashnikov submachinc guns and riding in a Soviet-made truck towing an artillery piece. 
Dt:~pite Sadat's expulsion of thousands ofSoviet advisers in 1972, his army has retained Soviet arms and equipment. 
The discrepancy in the numbers between the official version and the witnesses' accounts raised the ques­tion ofwhether some ofthe atackers escaped. It also cast some doubt on the government's contention that the assassins were an "isolated" group. 
Two of President Anwar Sadat's assassins were civilians who masqueraded as soldiers to sneak in­to the military review that ended in a bloodbath, Egypt's defcse minister was quoted as saying today. 
The government scheduled a 
referendu!Tl next week to approve 
Vice Presidt·nt Hosni Mubarak as 
Sadat's succ<:-ssor. 
Defense Minister Abdel Halim Abu Ghazala ~aid one ofthe assassins was an officer, one was a retired reserve officer and the other two were civilians pretending to be sol­diers, the newspaper AI Akhbar reported in its morning edition. 
Abu Ghazala did not elaborate in the newspaper account on how the two civilians, reported to be veterans of Egypt's mandatory military service, slipped into one of the trucks parading past Sadat in a military review that ende in a blood­bath. 
Earlier in the day. the defense minister told reporters during a break in the parliamentary session that Sadat's assassins were not part of 
continuedfrom page 1 
"The tests do every well in what 
they arc designed to do," said John 
Smith, ETS spokesman. ETS cites its 
annual studies as proof of the tests' 
accuracy. 
Assistant Director of NO Under­graduate Admissions, Pat Leonardo says that the SAT has been "thoroughly and totally misun­derstood." "The SAT is important within a very limited purpose," he says. "It's not God's gift to admis­sions officers." The test, he adds, serves in part as a "national com­parison" ofstudents coming from at least 4,SOO high schools, each with different grading systems. 
The SAT scores, Leonardo says. are just one tool used with many 

lf1lJI?§()4l' ~lf:JI-11 fll"' SII211S 
Thursday, October 8 
The Big He•t Columbia 1953 (90 min.) In his !:!est American film, Fritz Lang adapted Sidney Boehm's story of a maniacal cop's battle against the syn· dlcate. With Glenn Ford, Gloria Graham and Lee Marvin. 
JaJ() prn .4llJSfli"' ()f 4('1 ~r)()ll~()IPJ ~l tt~~ ,lcJITiiSSI£,r; t1.C)() 
~() S"'f (()..4tlJ~I{411()~ ~ II-41All2f 


@Jir i&it4at~ ',6 
]!{A1Ji& ii£@!1J<&N~ Just Open 6 days a week.:;. 
North 417 DIXIEWAY~­
of across from WentJ:y~ I(~ 
~ Campus 277-0734 
personalized Hair Desi!(ns 
! ATTENTION ALL ND CLUBS ! *
** applications for the 1981 sprinl( movie ..•* : lottery are now available in the !* * student union office. * 
* .. 
: application will be due b_y 4 pm thurs. ! ! Oct. 15. in the student union of/ice ! 
I lit? ~cazz =====:::::::i 

Thutsdny Oct. 8 Tomottow 
Open Stnge Night 
ffinty Beth Hochs 9-10:30 Pnul 8ettolinn ?
10:30 . 
a coup plot but were "an individual group and they are not even related to any group or country." 
Anotht·r dail), the scmi-oftlcial AI Ahram, quoted Gen. :'1-tahmoud d­Masry. commander of the Republican Guards, as saying thret: "traitors" left the truck when it rt•ached the reviewing stand. 
Thinking the men were approach­ing the stand to salute him, Sadat stood to return the salute, El-Masry was quott·d as saying While Sadat was standing, the fourth man, still in the truck. opened fire with an automatic rifle, hitting the president with his tirst shots. the guard com­mander was quoted as saying. 
• Tests 
other factors like the high school record anc.l extra-curricular ac· tivities. 
Dr. Peter Grande, assistant dean of Freshman Year. agrees that the SAT does not carry much weight by it· self. In fact, Freshman Year no longer uses the SAT scores to predict fresh­men grades primarily because other factors. both objective and sub­jective, affect grades. 
At the ND Law School, admission depends on the entire picture the student presents, according to Assis­tant Law School Dean William McLean. The LSAT. he says, is a "part of the game; it's a requirement, but just one of many indicators. not to be used in isolation." 
Director of Admissions to the Masters of Busincs!> Administration Program Larry Ballinger !>ecs the GMAT in a similar light. Students ac­n:pted. he says, have a wide range of G.\1AT scores and that the "G:\1AT by itself would not stand" as an ad­mission standard." Other factor~. like the·college record and work ex· periencc play a major role. 
Notre Dame. in general. uses a "rolling admissions process" where students are accepted as they apply. Assistant Dean McLean thinb that this procedure helps put the test score~ in proper pt:rspective since admission ollkl·rs have more Lime to examine the· individual. 
Nonetheless. tht· national attack on all these tests pt-rsists. The big­gest complaint is fhat standardized test~ simply do not predict accurate­ly how well a student will perform. How can a tin~r-hour test given in a tense atmo~pherc measure students· aptitude' The '\:ational PTA claims that the wording (>f many questions is ambiguous. and it points to t\vo questions on the I ')80 :\1ath SAT each with two correct an~wers while only one wa~ ren>gnized 
The test prop<HKnts argue that the q ucstions do measure ccrtain ap­titude~ and nothing more. · \\'hat need~ to bt· emphasized--and what ETS has statt:d all along--is that the 
tests  are  not  intended to  measure  
motivation.  creativity,  nati\ e  
talent.  "  

Today's 1'Sammy" 
clue 
1-krc is today·~ duo: to tht;, yc·ar·~ Homecoming Sc..1rch. ··sa;nmy Could He Hiding Amwhert···: Father Pncz had tht· right •ell-a before he :>,or ;,topped. 
\'<"hen vou llnJ the an~\\ er' to · the~e due!>. bring the inlc>rmation w rlw Studem \ niun ilftkc. 'econd. floor LaFortune St udull ( nlltT. Tht winner of the Search will recenT dinner lor 1wo at a local rotaurant 
Thursday, October 8, 1981 -page 5
Editorials 

High court must be accountable 
As Justice Sandra Day O'Connor assumes her post on the Supreme Court, it is interesting to retlect on many of the problems and issues that were raised before. during, and after her selection to the court. Justice O'Connor seems to be a good choice, as she has an impressive record and held up extraordinarily well under sometimes hostile Senate and public scrutiny. Her refusal to capitulate to the demands of the Moral Majority and other New Right groups, as well as certain senators (Alabama's Jeremiah Denton, most notably) showed a clear mind and a firm resolve, traits essential to effective service in the judiciary. 
In many ways the Supreme Court is the most intluential and important governmental body in the country. In recent times, the Court has con­sidered and ruled upon most of the decisions that affect the way we live, making landmark rulings in areas ranging from affirmative action to consumer affairs to abortion. Many applaud the decisions, and just as 
many are upset and think the court (and courts in general) has gotten out of control. An ironic aspect of this is that every group. from radical left to reactionary right, only seems upset when the court goes-against their position and causes them to lose. 
An excellent example of this phenomenon was provided during the ratification of Justice O'Connor. While most conservatives (as well as liberals) were satisfied with her nomination, pro-life groups were bit­terly opposed, and tried to block her confirmation. O'Connor was asked by Sen. Denton if she would vote against abortion if the issue should arise. and to her credit, she refused to answer. Denton took this as being "soft on abortion" and did not vote for her confirmation. 
This kind of pressure on justices is nothing new. FOR once tried to get the number ofjustices increased to 15 so he could stack the court with justices sympathetic to his policies, and one of the major issues of the last campaign was a concern over the kinds of justices Reagan would at­tempt to appoint to the Supreme Court. Liberals foresaw the court being taken over by reactionary semi-fascists. while conservatives saw the opportunity to get the court back in the business of "reviewing, not legislating." This calls into ques­tion the real role of the court in the American system. 
Many legal scholars would say that the court is now on the verge of having too much power in the sys­tem. The court members are ap­pointed for life, and are not accountable to the public. So, it is argued, if the court acts as a legislative body, creating laws in­stead of reviewing them, the court could in theory impose its will upon an unwilling American populace. 
There are three main ways the court, can be overruled, besides reversing itself, and each of those situations is very rare. Congress can change the language in a law that the court has struck down, essentially creating a new law. Congress can, through legislation, prevent the court from hearing a certain kind of case, or Congress can call for a constitu­tional amendment, which would change the basis for interpretation of a law. This is why the justices them­selves are so crucial. One vote was the difference in the 1973 abortion case, and the court has been narrowly split on most of the "important". cases. 
One would like to think of the court as an apolitical unit free of all intluences, but this has never been the case. That is why groups try to manipulate the nomination process, in order to protect their interests. This is the nature of all courts, which are in theory impartial, but in reality retlect the opinions of the times. The justices are only human, although they seem to have superhuman powers. An example of this can be found in the Plessy vs. Ferguson decision, which upheld "separate but equal" statutes in the South. Looking at the case from a human rights standpoint, the court was very wrong in this decision, yet that deci­sion let the rights of millions of Americans be usurped for almost a century. 
That case illustrates why it is dan­gerous to place either too much or too little trust in the court. The court later reversed this decision in the 1954 Brown vs. Board of Education case, which went against public sentiment. 
Anthony Walton 
Outside Thursday 
The Congress was "handcuffed" by its elective vulnerability, and was a partner in the mistreatment of blacks. This is a case where hard-liners might say that the court went against the wishes of the majority, but it would be difficult to argue that this move was a mistake. The most im­portant job of the court was and is to protect the rights of minorities (in the broadest sense of the word) from ig­norant majorities that would rob them of their rights. And it can be argued that the court is publicly ac­countable, because it is responsible fora// citizens, not just the majorities that control the legislative apparatus. 
And there is another way that the court is publicly accountable, even when it goes against the wishes of the majority. Each justice, swears to up­hold the republic when he assumes office. Sometimes preserving the republic means being on the cutting edge of new ideas. Though they are not elected. the justices jobs are just as important as those of legislators in running the country. As stated, Brown vs. Board of Education is an example of the need for the court to "create" laws when necessary, as well as reviewing those already legislated. 
Attacks on New Right are Inisdirected, late 
The Rev. Timothy Healy, who is the president of Georgetown Univer­sity, said a strange thing in a speech commemorating the opening of a new campus in Washington. He spoke of "the new religiosity that's sweeping the nation" from which he wished to detach himself. "I'm on safe ground, since when the Moral 
Majority says 'Christian,' it doesn't mean me. The new righteousness runs counter to Western religion." 
Since Fr. Healy is a trained priest. one would assume that his knowledge of Western religion would be sound. Sounder, for in­stance, than his knowledge of American history. Fr. Healy went on to say that the "new righteousness" has also done damage by "its assault on the classic American idea (that) lined (U.S. foreign policy) against oppression, tyranny and human cruelty, wherever found." 
One wonders whether the semi­nary Fr. Healy attended during the Second World War had him so clois­tered that he was never informed that the United States entered into a for­mal alliance with Joseph Stalin's Soviet Union to defeat Hitler. It is doubtful that Fr. Healy ever read the admonition of President John Quincy Adams when he declared that America "is the well-wisher to the freedom and independence of all. She is the champion and vindicator only of her own." Or Sen. Willian Fulbright's relatively recent declara­tion that "insofar as a nation is con­tent to practice its doctrines within its own frontiers, that nation, however repugnant its ideology, is one with which we have no proper quarrel." 
It would be interesting to go back to see whether Fr. Healy was a fer­vent supporter of the war against North Vietnam, to test his theory that 
U.S. foreign policy always stood ·'against aggression and tyranny.'' I say it would be interesting, but I fear it wouldn't be, really, because Fr. 
Healy betrays himself as a man of fearful temper and little intellectual equilibrium. 
The gravaman of America's cur­rent "bout of meanness" is, one gathers, America's toleration of the Moral Majority. In an absolutely breathtaking act of historical jux­taposition, Fr. Healy advised his (needless to say) enthusiastic audience that ··America is in a ran­corous mood these days, and our meanness tracks not escalating inter­est rates, but a sinking Dow Jones. (I 

Viewpoint )( 
·'Viewpoint'' offers members ofthe ND-SMC community their oppor­tunity to ~peak out on issues oflocal, national and international i mpor­tance. 
This week's question: What should the Notre Dame administration's number one priority be over the next ten years? 
Submissiom should be sent to the Editorials Editor. P. 0. Box Q on campus, and must be typed, double-~paced, and no more than 150 words. Longer submissions will probably be edited. Deadline: noon. 
William F. Buckley 
On the Right 
don't really know what that means, but maybe it makes sense in Latin.) 1 
These moods have found different names: nativism. Know­Nothingism, America First, the Ku Klux Klan. McCarthyism. Now we have the .... Moral Majority.·· It would surprise most historians if McCarthyism and the Ku Klux Klan had very much in common, or for that matter America First. If it is Fr. Healy's point that all those who become angry arc like the Ku Klux Klan, then he might as well throw in Jesus, who got very angry at the 
moneychangers. 
W t hat's going on'? Fr. Healy emerges as representative of the ul­timate liberal, here defined as someone who is either incapable of serious analysis or else finds thought so inhibiting that he is given rather to bloviation. America, says the presi­dent of Georgetown, is showing a new face abroad. How? It is our "bitter set of new national priorities (that) puts military hardware above the promises we've made to the old, gulls children out of school lunches.... In our haste to balance 
the  budget.  we  seem  to  ride  
roughshod  over  the  human  con­ 
siderations... ''  

We're spending six percent of the gross national product to defend our­selves and the free world against a world of Gulag. Where was Fr. Hea­ly when we were spending not six percent. but eight percent, nine per­cent and 14 percent for the same purpose under Presidents Eisen­hower, Kennedy, and Johnson'? Was he railing about the bitter priorities we were showing abroad? 
We are spending 13 percent of the gross national product on welfare, where 15 years ago we spent six per­cent. Was he, now in such a state of agitation. then hysterical'? Was it necessary to physically hold him down because of his resentment over spending priorities, back under President Johnson? Eleven years ago we were spending practically nothing on school lunches; under Reagan it is proposed to send almost $4 billion. 
Is Fr. Healy capable of understand­ing the trend'? is he capable of under­standing there is some relation between a balanced budget and the fight against intlation. which is the primary domestic enemy of the people? 
I mean, ofcourse-exccpt for the Moral Majority. Really, I am per­versely grateful for that organization for bringing out the hidden spook in otherwise apparently normal people. If Sen. McCarthy ever spoke so categorically and so spitefully against any American group as Fr. Healy has spoken against the Moral Majority, I'd like to see that state­ment and blush for him. And oh yes, when I quote Fr. Healy I'm on safe ground, since when he says Catholic (if he ever does), I want everyone to know it doesn't mean me. 
Universal Press Syndicate 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  Editor-in-Cbief............................. .]ohn McGrath  Photo Editor....................................... .]ohn Macor  
The Observer is an  independent newspaper published by rhe srudenr~  of rhe  News Editor ..................................Tim Vercellotti  
Umversny of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. lr does nor nece~~anlv  News Editor.............................................Kelli Flint  Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola  
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reporre~l  Sports Editor ..............................Michael Ortman  Controller .............................................joe Mulflur  
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent rhe op1n1on of a  Features Editor..........................Anthony Walton  Advertising !lfanager ...........................Mark Ellis  
maJority of the Ednonal Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views  SMC Executive Editor........... Mary Agnes Carey  Production Manager...................Michael Monk  
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of rhe communitv. and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encou~aged.  SMC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico  Circulation M_anager .............Tom MacLennan  


~--~-------~----------------------------------------­
Features 
Thursday, October 8, 1981 -page 6 
O'Laughlin celebrates 25th anniversary 
Cathleen Domanico 
SMC News Editor 
On October 11, 1956 a crowd of 1300 opera fans eagerly awaited the world premier of the NBC Opera Company. Reporters from all over the country gathered to view the Opera Company's premier in "The Marriage of Figaro." This Sunday marks not on­ly the debut of the NBC Opera Company, but the debut of O'Laughlin Auditorium in the Moreau Fine Arts Center which will commemorate its twenty-fifth anniversary this weekend. 
Since the opening night of "Figaro" in 1956, O'Laughlin has brought spectacular performances in the Fine Arts not only to Saint Mary's but to the South Bend com­munity as well. 
The bouncy sounds of"The King and I" and the sweet melodies of Puccini's "Madam Butterfly" have fluttered from O'Laughlin's spa­cious stage. 
Robert Speaight, E. Martin Browne and Henzie Raeburn have directed O'Laughlin productions. Agnes Moorehead, Helen Hayes, Maurice Evans and Marcel Mar­ceau have acted on the stage. 
Musical performances by Duke The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Ellington, the Vienna Johanna Theatre has also explored the Strauss Orchestra with Eduard world of Shakespeare with the Strauss, Ravi Shankar and the New­presentation of"Much Ado About port Jazz Festival All-Stars have set Nothing," "Love's Labour's Lost" the audience's feet to rhythm. and "The Tempest." ' 
Ruth Page's New Chicago Opera 
In more recent years Phil
Ballet, the Alvin Ailey Dancers, Donahue, Cicely Tyson and BettyJose Greco and his Spanish dancers Friedan have spoken to captivatedhave also been featured. 

'Writers and Other Troubadours' begins in South Bend area 
Tori Brown 
Feature 
Eight hundred years ago in the midst ofthe Middle Ages, groups of artists wandered from town to town performing their crafts for the benefit of the farmers and townspeople. They lived from day to day in the constant pursuit of a performance that would pay a little gold to get them through the next few days. The ultimate goal was to find a permanent resting place, a court position that would provide a roof under which to sleep and daily scraps from the count or duke's table. 
The artists of the twentieth cen­tury may wander to Greenwich Village or Paris to pursue their art. With a vengeance for life and per­fection, they perform, constantly modifying and changing words, phrases or entire pieces. This legacy ofthe troubadour has found a resting place in the Michiana area in the form of "Writers and other Troubadours." 
Welcoming all Writers and Other Troubadours" provides a format through which any and all artists in the area can perform in front of an audience and receive glory and praise or boos and hisses according to the quality of their craft. 
Bringing with him the ex­perience of the "Writers' and Readers' Showcase" in Philadel­phia, Mike Varga, one of the initial organizers of the program, saw the need for an open forum which would cater to the needs of the ar­tistic community of Michiana. His experience with the Showcase in Philadelphia provided him with the knowledge of the basic groundwork and principles to use in establishing something similar in South Bend. Each Monday eve­ning at the Philadelphia Showcase, writers of any genre were allowed to take the floor and present their works. An awareness in the Philadelphia ccommunity developed which recognized that there was renaissance occurring because ofthe Showcase. 
Carrying the feeling ofrebirth to South Bend, Varga gathered a group ofarea artists together to or­ganize a showcase based on his previous experiences in Philadel­phia. One major change occurred. The name became "Writers and Other Troubadours" because the organizing group realized that it was necessary to include all artists, "artists with a small 'a'," as Varga defines it. The new format had to encompass not only the more con­ventional showcase-type writers and poets, but also painters, musicians and even actors. 
Every Monday evening at 7:30 , the Cornucopia Restaurant hosts artistic community and its patrons. A featured artist performs for the first halfhour. An open forum takes over for the next half hour, allow­ing six area artists to perform their works on a first come, first perform basis. They are allotted · five minutes each to present their material to a live audience. The for­mat provides the opportunity for area artists to perform for a responsive audience and receive critiques that the arist needs to reevaluate and rework his or her material. The environment is one of experimentation and creativity that will hopefully foster continu­ing growth on the part ofthe artist. 
Varga speaks ofrenaissance with a small 'r' in South Bend in the 
arena of the arts. He saw the need for a forum which could generate artistic growth and administer to the public. His hope is that "Writers and other Troubadours" will feed off ofthe existing creative community and promote itself long after his group of organizers have departed. In addition, he recognizes that continuity will on­ly occur ifthe community explicit­ly shows its support of the artistic community. Operating on that belief, Writers and other Troubadours collects $1.50 admis­sion fee of which one half of the evening's take goes to the featured performer and the other half is used to sustain the program. 
The vision of"Writers and other Troubadours" is to draw the com­munity at large into an awareness ofart and the impact that art has on life. By bringing people to the Cor­nucopia, they hope that the resi­dents ofthe Michiana area will gain more exposure to the resources of their own community. Not only will people look to the Cornucopia to provide exposure to art, but 
they will see alternative forms of culture that already exist in South Bend. 
These twentieth century troubadours continue to thrive off ofthe support ofthe community to which they offer their art. They at­tempt to entertain others while they perfect th.:ir craft. Writers and other Troubadours exists to 
disburse the works of the artistic community. With the distribution ofartistic works to the community, they will hopefully become aware ofart in their lives so that from out of the dormancy of the industrial, business and academic world, they will awaken to the importance of the artistic community in their world. "Writers and other Troubadours" has come to herald that renaissance. 
audiences. Even Ronald Reagan campaigned for the presidency in O'Laughlin and former ambassador Robert White described the crisis in El Salvador to a packed house. 
Twenty-five years later in a for­mal commemoration and concert, Norman Delio Joio, a Pulitzer prize-winning composer will per­form in. O'Laughlin Auditorium Sunday afternoon at 2 p.m. In addi­tion, a special concert featuring the works of Norman Delio Joio will will be presented Friday eve­ning at 8 p.m. in Moreau's Little Theater. 
The Fine Arts Center wasnamed in honor of Father Basil Moreau. founder of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. It provides the facilities for the College departments of Art. Music, Communications and Theater. The Center houses a 350 seat Little Theatre as well as the 1300 seat O'Laughlin Auditorium. Modelled after Bayreuth's renowned opera house, O'Laughlin bears the name ofsister Frances Jerome O'Laughlin C.S.C. Her great love for the theatre led her to ask that an inheritance of 1>500,000 be used toward the con­struction of a Fine Arts center at Saint Mary's. 
Art is contained throughout Moreau Hall. Decorating the North entrance of the Center are 14 murals painted and designed by the world famous muralist Jean Charlot. The Charlot Frescos called "The Fire ofCreation," were a gift from Saint Mary's 1955-56 student body and contain all the colors that are possible in frescos. They represent the Fine Arts by picturing those who have practiced them. 
Homecoming this weekend 
Deidre Grant 
Weekend 
Do me a favor this weekend. If you decide not to partake in any of this weekend's activities give me a call and take off my hands and out of my predictable college lifestyle six brothers and sisters and two parents. I've spent the past four days contemplating how I'm going to take care of"them" and do all of 
the things that I want to do. 
I met up with my first conflict when my dad assumed I could be in my room Friday afternoon awaiting their arrival. I don't think I've spent a Friday afternoon in since my arrival here freshman year. They'll have to settle for 
meeting at Stepan Center at 7 p.m. for the pep rally. While I worry about sending them home for a good nights sleep so that I can get on with my social life the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre Depart­ment will be presenting "Getting Out" at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Friday and Saturday are the last two nights of the play which is under the direction of Julie Jensen. 
Off campus at Morris Civic Auditorium the musical comedy "They're Playing Our Song", writ­ten by Neil Simon, will be running both Friday and Saturday at 8:30. Tickets are seven and nine dollars wiht student discounts available. 
No matter what the weather is 
like on Friday night many people 
will be dressed for summer and on 
their way to the ACC for the Beach 
Boys concert. My biggest question 
about this concert concerns the 
length of time the "Boys" will per­form. Concert goers could hear a portion of most of the groups greatest hits in about three-and-a­half minutes and leave. 
"Alien" will be showing Thursday and Friday at 7,9:15 and 
11:30 in the Engineering Auditorium for just a dollar.Or, if the bucks are running low as break rolls around you can see the soccer team take on the visiting Mar­quette Warriors at 8 p.m. under the lights ofCartier Field. 
This weekend marks Notre Dame's Homecoming Celebration. Any oblivious freshman should be told or will soon realize that with the exception of a football game it bears no resemblence to the high school type Homecoming Weekend. But, speaking offootball games. I'm relieved to finally stop writing about awaiting victory number two.Florida State will be up against the Irish this weekend for a final test before Soutern California. Somewhere I read that the first South Bend snowstorm is predicted (planned??) for the weekend of the USC battle. So, if 
you aren't a diehard tailgater, get out and enjoy what may be the last weekend that the sane will spend out on Green Field. Also, if you're wandering around campus waiting for kickoff, Sorin Hall is presenting their annual Talent (?) Show at 
10:30 in front ofthe hall. 
If all else fails this weekend and you just can't get motivated, the majority can find comfort in knowing that next weekend you'll be homeward (wherever home is) or else where (wherever "else" is) bound. But, if you're staying on campus over break let me know. I'm sure I could talk my family in to coming up and keeping you com­pany. 

Thursday, October 8, 1981 -page 7
The Observer 
ND-SMC Theatre: 'Getting Out' 
Paul Rathburn 
Theatre Review 
...the tragic feeling is emked in us tl'ben tt•e are in /be presence of a c/Jamcter 11 •bo is read}' to lav dou•n bis ltfe, if m•ed he, to 
.secure one tbiug -bis sense of {lerstmal dignity. -Artbur .Hiller. "Tmgec~}' and Tbe Common.Han" 
Congratulations arl' in order for the ND-Saint Mary's Ikpartmcnt and in particular to dirc'Cior Julie .Jensen li1r opening this year's thcatrt· sc:ason with an outManding production of the diftkult and moving Marsha Norman play Get­ting Out. Though sc:t in the prcsc:nt, Getting Out finds time and space to incorporate th~ past. Dramatized m~mory is, in fact, Norman's major structural d~vice and l'hicf narrative t~chniquc: for developing tension, clarifying facts, and making visihlc the in­
visihlc: privat~ drama ofits heroine. Th~ constant shifts from "pres~nt" to "present-intensified-by-the­past" and back again arc made easier by virtue of the: multiple playing areas of Thomas Left's su­pcrh set, by numerous word cues, and by a well trained cast whose timing is nearly flawless. Thus presented, dramatized past events art· allowed to carry their full emo­
tional charge in the present. The play's very form rctlects the mental processes ofits central character, a woman for whom past and present arc inseparable. 
Time in the play is, on the one hand, very straight-forward and compresscd. We meet Arlene Holsclaw (Rachel Patterson) on the day of her release from prison in the company ofBennie, 30 y~ars her senior, a former guard and present would-be "lover-father­figure" (Joseph Musumeci, Jr.). On her first day of"freedom" Arlene is nearly raped by Bennie, Is welcomed and then insulted by her Mother (Susan Gosdick), and is propositioned by her one-time pimp Carl (Raul Aportela). The 

following day (Act II) Arlene 
meets Ruby (Eileen Durkin) an c:x­
con upstairs neighbor. But time 
becomes complex as wear~ taken 
inside Arlene's mind and, with her, 
relive scenes when she was simply 
"Arlie." 
As played by Rachel Patterson, Arlene is imprisoned -at times seems frozen -between past and present pain. She is ncar exhaus­tion, no long~r able to trust, barely equal to the simplest free-world 
decisions and -above all ­haunted by the "death" ofwhat she was. She mourns the loss of"Arlie." 
Yet, through it all, as she tells Bennie, she's "as strong as ever" with the seemingly indestructible will to achieve her humanity. This is a difficult role and Patterson is to be highly commended for a sensitive, solid performance. 
Equally commendable was Heide Lucke's portrayal of Arlie. Lucke was able to be childlike, hateful, arrogant, lovable and petulant. She was also funny when the role demanded it. Betrayed and brutalized, Arlie represents that stubborn unwillingness to remain passiv~ in th~ fac~ of n:p~at~d in­dignities, and that ~xplosive capacity for r~taliation and rebel­lion which often hrings down mor~ indignities. Lucke was su­pcrh. 
Jos~ph Musumc:ci's "lknnic" deserves special no!in· as wdl. As the role is writt~n. Bennie b tcmkr and loving at one lllOillt'Ilt. and full of cunning sdfintert:st and kc­hery tht• n~xl. Ik is as clumsy at pn:s~ming hoxed chicken and tlowers as he is clumsy at making love. Uut h~ is also lonely. aging. and vulnnable. Musumt·ci ddin·red what may have been th~ tlncst pnformance ofthl· evening. 
Susan Gosdick as the mother, and Eiken Durkin as Ruby ap­peared too young for their respective rok~. Gosdick is a very strong performer and gave cre­dibility, nonetheless, to a mother who is deplorable if thoroughly understandalb~. Patterson and Gosdit:k made the moth~r­
daught~r love-hate come aliv~. Durkin's "Ruby" StTms mor~ th~ perfect friend we all wanted for Ar­len~ than th~ Ruby of the text, but th~ actress is so strong and likable in the rol~ that no one objects. Raul Aportda as "Carl" grew strong~r in his rok after an unfor­tunate opening wherein h~ scc:m~d more comic than thr~at~n­ing. 
In g~ncral, Getting Out is among th~ finest colleg~ productions I have se~n in a very long tim~. It caught and conv~y~d th~ spirit ofa very good play, one that is neither 
s~ntimental nor sexist but which conjures up -at I~ast for me ­the: ghost of Willy Loman. And that's'not bad. 
Economists don't know what they're doing 
Andy Rooney 
The only thing I'm sure ofwhc:n it (;Omcs to the economy is that economists don't know what tht·y'rc talking about. 
Ifyou brought I00 doctors in to decide to treat a patient with a broken leg, they'd probably all agree the lc:g should ht· set and put in a cast. If there's a problem with the economy and the president calls in 100 economists for advice:: on what to do, he gets I00 dif­ferent opinions. 
Why don't economists admit they're taking a shot in the dark when they start talking or writing about the economy? It seems to me that of all our experts, the economists have done the worst job ofpaying offon their expertise:. The scientists in physics and chemistry have paid off, the mathe­maticians have paid off in practical ways, and even the astronomers have: paid off. The: Earth is round just as the earlier astronomers said it was and Saturn is really out there. The economists have never "paid off and probably ought to go back to school. 
The: reason economists don't know what they're talking about is that they're talking about a lot of things that can't be: known. The facts upon which they have to base a prediction don't exist. There hasn't been a drought yet in the Midwest next month and they have no way of knowing it's com­ing; Russia has not declared war on Afghanistan next year or moved in­to Poland with troops. Our economy is subject to the in­tlucnce of so many unpredictable events that no one: should be ex­pected to know what's going to happen to the stock market, car sales the corn crop or bank loan in­terest rates. 
The economists who give advice to our presidents come from two placc:s. Either they're:: the people who deal in money as bankers or stock brokers, or they're the theoretical economists who have been teaching college. 

Rock Trivia Quiz No. 5 
If you did not listen to WSND last Friday bt·twccn H and 9 p.m., and did not hear the answers to last week's quiz then, here they ar~ now: 
I. The story of two lovers in a supcrmarkc:t -"Same Old Lang Sync" by Dan Fogelberg; 2. She lost her youth... -"Copa'-·ahana" by Barry Manilow; 3. Band member's word for a certain male organ ­"Tusk" by Fleetwood Mac; 4. Ends with "Arc you having a good time" 
"Coming lip" by Paul McCartney (and Wings); 5. Singer insisted it was a love song to Jesus -"You Light Up My Life" by Deb­by Boone; 6. Song John Lennon hc:ard in a disco-"Rock Lobster" by the B-52's; 7. Singer having troubles with his best friend ­"Jessie's Girl" by Rick Springtlelu, R Song which begins with a pice~ oforiginal version -"Breaking Up Is Hard to Do" by Neil Scdaka; 9. Remake of 1960 song with new lyrics "Stay" by Jackson Browne; I0. Hit with sexual references cleaned up for AM radio -"Good Girls Don't" by the Knack. 
This week's quiz consists oflung song titles. Identify the artist. 
I. "If I Said You Have a Beautiful Uody Would You Hold It Against :\1c" 
2. 
"Where Were You When I Was Falling in Love" 

3. 
"Everybody's Got Something to Hide Except Me and My Monkey" 


4. 
"When You're in Love with a Beautiful Woman" 

5. 
"Your Ma Said You Crkd in Your Sle~p Last Night" 

6. 
"The Love I Saw in You Was Just a Mirage" 

7. 
"You've: Never Been in Love Like This Before" 

8. 
"I'm Gonna Sit Right Down and Write Myself a Letter" 

9. 
"Have You S~en Your Mother, Baby, Standing in the Shadow?" 

10. 
"You Took the Words Right Out of My Mouth" 


Tim Neely 
The professors get a reputation as heavy thinkers in their academic world, so someone in government d~cides they ought to come out in th~ real world and put thcdr theories to work for all of us. The trouble has always been, lik~ the people who predict what's going to happen to the stock market, they're right almost exactly half the time. That's a margin oferror of 50 percent and it isn't good enough. 
The fact is the rhythm of our ~conomy seems to resist being tinkered with. It goes up and it goes down. When it goes up , half the economists are right and the oth~r halfare wrong. 
When the economy of our country goes up or down, it doesn't look to me as though it's happening because of any textbook kind of economic prin­ciples. Very often, for example, some big Wall Street operator needs cash and decides to sell stock. Half a dozen brokers find out about it and first thing you know. there's a stampede at the sc:lling windows and stocks drop I 0 points. It has nothing to do with anything so classic as the law of supply and demand, but the next day the: economists arc talking about what happened just as if it was possible to make sense out of it. 
I'm not blaming economists. It's a tough racket they're in and they don't have much to go on. The economists they studied have as much to do with economics today as the hot air balloon has to do with the F-14. I JUSt wish economists would stop guessing and telling us what they guess as if they knew what they were talking about. 
(c) THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE-NEW' 
YORK NEW'S SYNDICATE,INC 
~-~~ ----~~----· ~----------------~ ·~-----­
-------. Thursday, October 8, 1981 -page 8 
N 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­ay through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. 
''"'r' .. "~'"". classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid,
Classifieds-~­
either in person or through tile nail. 

FOUND. Hat last Sat.. Oct 3, dunng play FSU STUDENT TICKET. 40 yd. line HELPIII DESPERATELY NEED GA'S WANTED: FOUR GAS TO FLORIDA DEAREST M E , HAPPY 21ST at o·Laughlin Theatre at St. Mary's. Call 3053. FOR FLA STATE AND USC. CALL4687 STATE. MONEY NO OBJECT CALL BIRTHDAY. ITS ABOUT TIME! NOW 288-9322 1f yours. SMC. HANK AT 1650 YOU CCAN GET AID OF THAT STUFF 
NOTICES 
WANTED THREE GA'S TO USC. AM ON YOUR FACE. SEE YA AT SENIOR NEED 1 GA TECH GA CALL JENNY DESPERATE. SO CALL NOW CALL BAR. (IF YOU MAKE IT) LOVE. 'THE 8026 HANKOAJIMAT1650 APARTMENT' 
USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED., 
NEED TIX POR FSU AND USC STU­NEED 2 FSU t1x -student or GA Call SAT. SUN 9-7. CASPERSON. 1303 
DENT OR GA CALL 1777 ASK FOR T1m 1751 RIGHT TO LIFE MASS: 10 pm, Stapleton BUCHANAN RD .. NILES. 
Penn St. ticket wanted please call Donna JOHND Lounge. LeMans Hall Don't miss 11! Student hous1ng, clean, safe. laundry, ·at6771 PENN ST TIX. WILL BUY PSU TIX OR USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought. 
kitchen, rated supenor $100 mcludes all AHOY!! NEED 4 NAVY GAS NOW!! TRADE FOR USC GAS BILL 80 212­
sold, searched ERASMUS BOOKS. 
291-1405. WILL PAY $20 EACI:i CALL MIKE 3260 759-4846 JUSt when you thought 1t was safe to be 1n
Will pay top $ for ND-USC game ticketsTues-Sunday, 12-6. 1027 E Wayne (One an SMC dorm on Friday 3-EW IMPORT­Need 6 tickets, best locatton availableblock south of Eddy-Jefferson intersec­
One bedroom. furnished apt near ND. Please call collect (714) 835-6505 ask for HAVE 2 FSU WILL DEAL FOR 2 SC WEAL THY GRANDPARENTS n&ed 2 A-PARTYtion) 
Newly decorated. pnvate entrance, Tony Herenda or Judi Carlos. -ROBBY 8251 FLORIDA STATE GAs Call Bob at 3527 $165/month. Call255-8505 or 259-4629. 
WILL TRADE 2 to 4 USC GAS FOR 2 to 4 

TWO GA FSU TICKETS. MONEY NO BIG BUCKS SCOTT NEEDS: one U.S.C Desperately need FSU GA·s Please call HI COLLEEN!
PENN. ST GAS. CALL AL-3549. 
OBJECT CALLBOB234-0418. G.A. or student ticket. Call Scott at 8698 Joe 1492 
(Hi Diane. I'm crazy about you.)
TYPING--Only $.65 a page Call Dan. 
Need USC student ticket Please call me THANK YOU ALUMNI HALLNEED 2 GA TIX TO USC WILL PAY272-5549. before 9:00PM 
WANTED 
WELL CALL RAY AT 8371 Need 2 or 3 FSU student hx Willing to bar­before you sell.$$$ J1m 1050 ter$$ & 1 USC student t1k or$$ only. Call the first dorm to make a generousTO THE TOOL WHO STOLE MY TAPE 

I NEED 4 GA TICKETS TO THE NAVY Lenny or Squ1ggy at 3349 or 3361. I NEED 2 GA TIX FOR FSU $$$ CALL contnbutlon to The Observer-Landon Tur­DECK FROM THE ARKY BUILDING 
GAME. CALL PETER 1222 DAVE 277-5883 ner Fund. Other dorms are challenged to
WANTED GAs FOR ANY HOME HELP!! Homesick gtrl wants to see follow your lead Make checks payableTHURSDAY NITE. YOUR GAMES, CALL PAUL 8509 parents who won't come unless they get HELP! I NEED TWO NAVY GAs CALL and send to: GRANDMOTER IS BEING HELD 
Need 2 GANeed 2 GAs and 1 student tiCk­GA. t1x for Navy. Will pay$$$. Call Kathy STEVE AT 8165 THANKS HOSTAGE IN MY DORM YOU CAN 
RIDE NEEDED TO CONN FOR OCT et for FSU call4-1-5773 6997 The Observer·landon Turner FundHAVE HER BACK WHEN MY TD IS 
BREAK. PLEASE CALL 1500. ltal1an GRANDMA wants to see NAVY Need 4 USC t1x-w111 pay$$ Call6116.
RETURNED JUST LEAVE IT 
ANYWHERE THAT SOME HONEST 
P 0. BoxQ
needndetoeast. PA& back for Oct break game so do brother and parents need FREE BEER OR CASH FOR A F.S.U STUDENT OR GA TICKET; CALL LOUIS PERSON CAN FIND IT OR IF YOU AVE 
to Readtng or Phila. area Will share costs. Grandma has plenty of money . need upTHE ----S CALL 1678. SHE'S NOT 
3160 Notre Dame. IN 46556
call Dean. 8643. to 4 GAs call John 3623 GOING TO LIVE MUCH LONGER 
PERSONALS
P S. I WANT THE TAPES TOO-Two Wild girlS need 1de to Gamesville. Fla. 
Will trade 4 FSU GA for 2 USC GA. Call Family VISiting for FSU. Need GAs or stu­Tony 289-1916 f. dents. Desperate. call Jay at 8847. 
HAPPY B-DAY STAN 
(or general vicinity) for October break.
GOING SOUTH FOR THE BREAK? I ... 
,
Will share$ and gas. Can lleave anytime. GO PROFESSOR ROOS -STAY
NEED A RIDE TO CENTRAL ALABAMA. 
HELP! AILING GRANDFATHER HAS 
DESPERATE-Need 4FSU GA's. Call YOU MAKE THE BIRTHDAY WISH 
Call Pam or Sus1e (and they'll leave a AWAY FROM THOSE GIGS -Yo'U
WILL SHARE EXPENSES AND 
NEVER SEEN NOTRE DAME PLAY. DeMar3410DRIVING. PLEASE CALL ANGIE AFTER 
message lor the wild girls) at 41-5236. CANDO IT!!
NEED TWO NAVY TIX FOR HIM AND A AND I'LL MAKE IT COME TRUE!
1 0:30PM AT 3750. Need many Flonda St. GA's. Please call DARBY S PLACE IS OPEN TONIGHT
DATE. CALL2103 GEORGIA TECH GAs need 2 Or 4 call ED 1068
Mark, 277-0692. FROM MIDNIGHT UNTIL THREE IN THE
OVERSEAS JOBS Summer/year 
NEEp ONE FSU STUDENT TICKET German and French FOLKS KLINK your
LAFORTUNE BASEMENT. 
round. Europe. S.Amer.. Australta, Asta. 
PLEASE CALL TONY AT 3588 I NEED 6 GA.s for FSU game. Call1729. mugs together at Greenfield before Fla.
NEED 2 GA'S TO FSU. WILLING TO PAY game All fields. $500-$1200 monthly. Sightsee­
BIG $$$$ ALSO NEED 2 USC GAS. Happy 18th to the Iii 'skimo in 324! Who's 
ing. Free info Wnte IJC. Box 52-IN-4, 
need 2 or more GAs for Flonda game. call NEED FSU STU. TIX, CHRIS .-1714 Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 
CALL JOE AT 1945. your buddy? Let's go to Milwaukee! 
Eileen 4-1-4420 .. 
GAY STUDENT HOTLINE NEED FLORIDA STATE GA'S. WILL
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Need nde to Evansville. IN area for break HELP! Need Many FSU Tickets For My I need a nde to Milwaukee on Friday, 
Brother And Friends From FSU! If You
Student loans. $20-$200. One percent In­Will share expenses. Call B11l at 8686 Oct 16 (after my 2mwf class) and back
PAY ANY PRICE. CALL PAUL 8509. 283-6282 
terest Due in one month One day wait. Have Extras Call Kathy At 277-8839. sometine Sunday. I've been tnvited to a Open M-F. 11:30-!2:30 1n LaFortune Need nde to Providence. R.I. over Oct. wedding. and want to go. Iam also looking 
NEED Flonda State GA's PAY MUCH$$ THURSDAYS 9-11pmBasement 
Break. Will share expenses. Call NEEDED: 4 USC GAs in order to save for a nde to Milwaukee or Madison and
call 283-8598 
Lawrence at 3122. my ass. Call M1ck 1178 back almost any weekend. ­Sew1ng and alterations done by Joanne call Deirdre at 8013. If you can't reach 
FSU TIX FOR SALE, USC TIX NEEDED. Laune and Ale1da.
272-8450 Great also for handmade g1fts need nde to COLORADO Springs. WILL Need USC and Navy GA's urgently. Call me at a decent hour, call at an indecent
Will make best offer or trade. Call Larry 
Chns 1222 
SHARE USUALCall MAAR 288-5208. one--I'm hard to reach. 277-3306 No psych services after all.. 
lor birthdays and the holidays! 
AMERICAN-LEBANESE CLUB an impor­Help an underprivileged mmonty! Give a WANTED: Two USC GA's. Will trade two WE EACH NEED AIDES STEVE TO
NEED 2 FSU tix. 2 GAs or 1 & 1 stud. t1x memo-board city! 
needy Filipino a nde home "for October NAVY GAs and/or cash. Call B1ll at 6839 SYRACUSE,NY AREA MARK TO
tant meeting on thursday Oct 8, at 7 pm at 
VINCE x1238 the International Student Lounge. Hope to PURDUE-LAFAYETTE.IN FOR
break. My homeland of Flonda awa1ts for AREA see you all there. me. Anywhere 1n the Jacksonville­Italian GRANDMA wants to see NAVY FALL BREAK WILL SHARE EXPENSES
Need 4 FSU GAs. Please call Mary HAPPY BIRTHDAY STAN! 
Daytona-Orlando-Philippines area! Will game so do brother and parents need !!! CALL 8317
Powell at 7983 
RIDERS WANTED FROM PITTSBURG share usual (Incl. nee and coconuts). Call Grandma has plenty of money , need up if you want to become a man you canTO ND THIS FRIDAY AND BACK TO Greg (propnetor of the lovely ABAD to 4 GAs call John 3623 NORTHERN NEW JERSEY IS WHERE I 
PLEASE CALL ME. NEED 8 GAABODE in Daytona Bch.)-8222. 
PITT SUNDAY CALL PAT AT 412-279-WANT TO BE FOR OCTOBER BREAK,
FLORIDA STATE TIX. CHIP 7443 if you can fit me into your plan, 
2119AFTER 4pm No one w11l pay you more for 2 GA tickets BUT I'M NOT GOING TO GET THERE Need nde to Maryland for October Break­forthe USC game. Call8906 UNLESS YOU GIVE ME A RIDE My tar­
NEED 3 NAVY r-, TIXI PLEASE CALL would you reveal the lines of that deep,
GOING TO FLORIDA FOR BREAK? --Call L1sa at 4-1-5411. get area IS Nutley. but I'll take any
CARRIE 8031! dark tan? 
URGENT' I need 2 student FSU tix. Call reasonable near-miss. Call A1leen X3445 WILL SHARE EXPENSES AND Need as many Florida State tiCkets as Mary 41-4276 
NEED A RIDE TO SOUTH FLORIDA USC GA tx needed call mike 3686 
possible for fam1ly. Call Julie at 277-8839. DESPARATE FOR FLA ST TIXS JENNY Dear Jeff. 
DRIVING PLEASE CALL GEORGE AT 
3360. .lead us not into temptation but·deliver us
I NEED 2 USC GAS TOGETHER. MOM 
41-4507 
from EMIL 
AND DADS 25TH WEDDING ANNIVER­Sorry I m1ssed the plane. I hope you
R1ders needed anywhere along 1-57 to SARY GIFT-PLEASE HELP!! CALL TIM There w11l be no turkey th1s Thanksgiving didn't wa1t too long 1n Pans for me. DoesNeed nders to ATLANTA--Leave Sat­
back lor game. 272-9913 Memphis area for break. Please call RIDERS TO BOSTON, te BOSTON Laura at 6896 a.s.a.p. CLUB BUS has spaces left. $110 2-way, 
1372 for thiS rooster if I don't come up with 2 this mean I don't get my island? HAPPY FSU GA's. Senous money and/or trade BIRTHDAY, anyway. Forgetling about
A1de needed to Northern Illinois Univ Fn $60 1 way. Returns for USC. Call Jim
PROMINENT CHICAGO STOCK­for t1x for any other home game. Call Ahab parttes Isn't the same without you. How I
HELP HELP HELP MUST get G.A. ·s 1528 or M1ke 8854. and Student t1x for GA TECH game Oct 17 Please Call1827 
BROKER NEEDS 10 USC GAS. WILL or Jane at 6889 or 277-4274 nights. miss Bumstead! PAY SUBSTANTIAL PREMIUM CALL
PLEASE call Stephanie at 4347 to get top BOSTON TAILGATER Sat. Greenfield HOUR this lnday(10/9) from 4-6 1n dollar for your tix FREE REFRESH. Look for MASS. flag or 
attention L.l ers: L !CLUB HAPPY 312-621-3799 COLLECT. ASK FOR FOR SALE 2 GA FSU tickets for cash or Love. TED. 
student USC ticket. Call Andy at 1079. 
s1gn
Badin's basement. 
ManlynPLEASE! I NEED A RIDE TO CONNEC­
Penn ST. t1x wanted Will pay b1g$$$ or I HAVE USC STUD TICKET; NEED TO
TICUT OR ANYWHERE NEAR THERE RUNCLSNEED A RIDE TO BOSTON,
trade Navy G.A.s call M1ke 2187 TRADE FOR A GA AM WILLING TO
WHERE I MIGHT FIND TRANSPORTA­TAKE THE BUS. Call J1m 1528 or M1ke TION TO NEW HAVEN,CONN PLEASE 8854 Donna,
DEAL Frank 1229. need FSU TIX Please call1827 
CALL PETE 3049 Don't hold your breath. Palver can't
jLOST/FOUND I 
NEED GA FSU OR ANY HOME GAME 
NAVY GA DESPAAATELY NEEDED deliver
Jail BREAK Dad iS breaking out of jail to TICS.WILL PAY & TRADE USC PLEASE 
Need 2 nders to NYC or VICinitY leav1ng IMMED. WILL PAY ANYTHING Call M1ke 
see the FSU and NAVY game. I need two CALL 4392 SMC 
Oct. 14 AM Call E1leen 4602 or Donna 8854 Welcome Frank LaGrona Remember
GAs for both games Please help Call
LOST: a two tone blue sweat 1acket 4455 the words at M1ck Jagger Let 11 bleed
Lynn at 6766 ..
Reward. call v1nce x1238 Need MSU and Ga Tech GA's HEY! I've got to have one Flonda St. stu­Pinheads RIDERS needed to EXIT 13 of the Oh10 desperately. Call Paul at 1222. dent ticket. Will definitely talk terms. Call
Wanted: Two Penn State GAs for
I LOST MY DIAMOND RING ON SATUR­Turnpike (KENT) for Break Leaving Oct. M1ke at 8896. Patty.
boyfriend's parents Help save a beautiful
DAY IT IS VERY UNUSUAL, 2. 16 and returnmg for USC Call BUD at Need 2 GAs for Flonda State. Call Stan, Mike says 1! looks like hell! Where are
relationship! Aileen x3445. 
DIAMONDS PlUS ONE LARGE PEARL­288-6251 3006 Happy 18th b1rtday Bubbles! With love. you to defend me? SHAPED DIAMOND WHITE GOLD. IT ...........,, .................... . from your bestest buddy. M WAS MADE AND DESIGNED ESPE­1 AIDER NEEDED TO ALBAN.N Y Help! Need 2 or more t1x to "any home
NEED 2 FSU GA'S.BIG BUCKS.GREG 8377.The longer you wait, the less you're
CIALLY FOR ME I COULD HAVE LOST AREA FOR BREAK CAN LEAVE TURS game. Call Maureen at 284-4156. $$$ To all sophmores. hi! Mary. Grandfather and little s1ster com1ng down 
go1ngto get 
IT IN THE AREA OF THE BOOKSTORE EVE. CALL BOB 277-4097 for Navy game. Need one student and OR UNIVERSITY CLUB REWARD. NEED MANY FSU TIX (GA). WILL PAY THE ALIEN IS HERE!! Tonight and lnday one GA ticket Call M1ke at 1376.
Need 2 USC GAs$$ Mike 1502 
PLEASE CALL JEANNE AT 1-456-1311 RIDERS needed to Dallas area for Oct BIG BUCKS AND FIRST BORN in the Eng. Aud1tonum. 7.00. 9:15. and IN FORT WAYNE. PLEASE break. Call Kevin 8327. SON.CALL TOM-1175. 11:30. AdmiSSIOn IS $1. Sponsored by Need nde to south Jersey for break. Can
BADLY NEED 2 G.A.s FOR .fLORIDA 
JUnior class. leave Fnday morn1ng. Call Tony at 1387.
STATE. CALL LEE AT 289-3822
.WANTED: HELP! FAMILY WANTS TO SEE NAVY
lost: Cream spnng 1acket wilh elastic 
wa1st, collar, and cuffs--1n m1d sept. Call one author will1ng to wnte the drama of GAME! NEED G.A TIX DESPEAATE­I have 5 GREAT tickets (ROW 14) for the Need 2 GA tickets for FSU. Will pay
NEED 2 GA FSU TIX,CALL JIM 289­
Bob at 3260. SIX CHARACTERS. L Y!!! JULIE-3829 BEACH BOYS CONCERT MAKE OF­megabucks or thereabouts. Call Tony at
5311 
FER Call JIM at 8774 1387 lost: Black pop-up umbrella 1n rm. 265 1n Go1ng east on 80?? Need nde to Dubo1s. TOP DOLLAR FOR USC GA CALL SUE 
HELP! Need 1 stu.. 2 Ga for FSU and 4
old chem bldg--In m1d Sept, call Bob at Pa. Will share expenses. Drop me off and (SMC) 4889 Dear Meekster, 
COGRATS. LISA--I'M (WERE) PROUD OF YOU! LOVE. CAROLE stu. USC Call Lou 8710 
3260 continue east as it's right on 80. Call I can'! wa1t to see you aga1nl You·re Chuck at 1033. HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL FANS such a hunk! Please feel free to call me
I NEED FLORIDA ST GAs. CALL BRIAN 
LOST. TWO GOLD RINGS AT THE NEED FLORIDA STATE TIX. Call Tom at anyt1me soon-hopefully. we can be to­
1073 
ROCK EXTREME SENTIMENTAL YO! I need nders lo Philadelphia I'll be 3573 gether soon.
SHARON. MAURA, KIM AND ALL THE VALUE. IF YOU HAVE ANY INFORMA­leaving thiS place on Oct.16. If you're In­You-know-who
FRESHMEN GIRLS ON THE SECOND TION, PLEASE CALLCINDY-3141 terested. call Fran at 4385. If I'm not in, PLEASE !!! I NEED TWO GAS FOR FSU 
THE SMITH HILL GANG needs t1ckets for 
FLOOR OF LEWIS (NORTH); Hang 1nNotre Dames date w1th the Trojans. Con­
leave your name and number ANDGATECH. WILLPAYBUCKSCALL Fred.Siderable money will be spent to watch 
there--only 8 more days! My cry1ng ses­JOE at886 You don t know how lucky you are to
Sions are from 8 to 9p.m. every night--beNeed nde to NJ/NY OR ATLANTA for have a papoose like Wilma. See you both the show. Call M1Ke 0 at 8896 and earn there!
some easy bucks. 
break. Call Mlchael233-2969. NEED 3-4 FLA ST GAs FOR FAMILY 1n row 1 Fnday Barney·s busy 
WILL PAY TOP$. CALL TIM 277-7590 Betty
Thanks for everythtng y·all, I NEED A AIDE TO DALLAS FOR OCT BREAK; LOUIS 3160 Urgently need 2 student or GA tickets for I'm walling for a lady. Shes gonna show.
I NEED TWO FSU GAS CALL JOHN 277-5329­
Carole 
USC Game. Will pay "' U.S. Dollars. I know she IS. AIDE NEEDED TO AND FROM PITTS­Steve 234-1539 BURGH OR WHEELING. W VA AREA 
LOST, an ad,ustable copper nng w1th I he 
NEED 2 FSU GA TIX. PLEASE CALL words real copper on the 1nside. PLEASE
FOR FALL BREAK. WILL SHARE THE Desperatly need 1 FSU and 2 USC T1x You asked me to do the writing tor 
SHIRLEY AT 8661 BEFORE 5 P.M. call Deirdre at 8013--call late 1! you can·! 
USUAL CALL PAUL AT 3501. Call Buzz 8265 us. Well, I've done a lot ot It since then, 
and It all adds up to one thing: You'rerreach me at a reasonable t1me.
NEED A STUDENT USC TICKET? GOES TO THE HIGHEST BIDDER.
NEED RIDE EAST of Syr. on 90 for break xDESPERATELY NEED 3 GA TIX TO filling this space. Deep Inside us we 
leave anyt1me 1150 Bill FLORIDA STATE. WILL PAY $$$1 both know you need to 1111 up this CALL 277-2248 

PLEASE CALL PAULA AT 232·8301. space. That's the thing that makes IILOST. A white 1ade pendant It fell off 1ts 
work. It you don't flllthls space, you'llI need 4 GA or STUDENT t1ckets lor the 
necklace a week or so ago PLEASE call 
Need 4 FSU GA's. Will pay b1g $, call regret 11. Maybe not today; maybe not FSU game. CALL DICK at 277-6065 
Deirdre at 8013·-calllate if necessary · 
Jasper 1744 tomorrow, but soon -and for the rest
FOR SALE 

otyourlife. DESPERATELY NEED FSU OR USC 
DESPERATE ALUMNI NEEDS GOOD I'm no good at being noble, but It TIX. CALL PETE 233-8091. 
LEAVING FOR ST. LOUIS. FT WORTH­
TICKETS TO USC GAME. CALL COL­doesn't take much to see that a spaceATTENTION PHOTOG· 
DALLAS AREA OCT U. CAN TAKE 
LECT (BEFORE 2PM). JOHN DE ROSA otthree little Inches doesn't amount to RAPHERS..... FOR SALE: An Omega B-NEED 10 GA FLA STATE TIX. CALL TWO STUDENTS 256-545t AFTER 2 
(213) 485-1100 a hill of beans In this crazy world. 22 enlarger with copy stand and 36' LESLIE 277-2244 
PM 
Lost: Sum of money. In EG aud. or by But I've got a job to do, and where I 
column. Th1s IS JUSt the condenser head
ma1n doors of PW. Call Jerry at 6774 or I need GA tickets for Flonda State. Please go you can•t follow. But we'll always
and copy stand. No lense Included, but NEED GA TX FOR FSU OR ANY GAME.
Jan at 2958. call Dave x8923. have space to fill. We lost It once, but
NEED RIDE TO CONN FOR OCT
head takes any standard Omega enlarger CALL 4436 SMC. 
now we've got It back. lense. Pnce: $25. Call John Macor at 
BREAK WILL SPLIT USUAL CALL 
-_. LOST: Brown umbrella in room 366 of Old NEED GA FLORIDA STATE TICKETS MAUREEN 41-4953 And the Restless Shade rambles on. 
1715 or 8661 and leave your name and FLA TIX NEEDED STUDENT PREF
Chern. Bldg. Call288-9322. PLEASE CALL M.J. 4-1-4411 Sigh. Apologies to Dennis. 
number. DAN 1694 

Thursday, October 8, 1981 -page 9
The Observer 
N.D. Women 
Volleyball in action tonight 
ByJANE HEALEY skill level. When you add the the \H:aknesses of the opposmg teams .\j}()rfs \f'rita back rm'\ talents ofOlson to those of with her newly found power. freshman Mary Jo llcnsler and juntor Tlw Irish do fed one thing that is 
Tht· Notre Dame women·~ vol­jackie Pagley, the Irish arc equipped lacking right now is an active. kyhall team will take on Oakland with a strong and consistent positive attitude. Sophomore scttl·r City Collt:gl' in a dual m;~tch tonight defensive trio that hope to stop any Maureen Morin cxplains: "We have at 7 p.m. in the AC.:C Pit. Notre Dame offensiw attack Oakland City might to learn not to rdy on other people goc~ into the match with a ...,_I 0 pro-ducc. to pick us up when t wl·'rc down. record, having ~plit a tri-mcl't at De Offensively, the Irish will look to Sure, we all havc to help each out Pauw Tuesday night. Notre Dame their two hot middle attackers jan once in a while, but right now wt: defeated the ho~t Tiger~ I "i-9 and Yurgealitis ami Therese Henken to nt:ed everyone to look inside I 'i-"i. but in turn werc heatcn by But­pour the powl·r on in the front row. thcmslvcs and t1nd their O\vn In I<; I 0 and I 'i· I I llenkcn was viewed by the coaching stn:ngth and intensity. When all 
Thl· Irish arc depending on anoth· stall as possessing great potential at twelve ofus find that personal inten­l'r strong deti.·nsivc pert(>nnancc 1hc beginning of the season. lJntil sity and begin to usc it, the team in­from freshman Jcannc Olson in thc De Pauw match, however, she tensity and t:nthusiasm will just tlow tonight's matl·h. The ex-St.Jocseph'~ had yet to exhibit the extent of this naturally." Mandout broke into the Notrl' Dame potential. Against De J>auw, she ex­The Irish will try to employ this line-up during the Loyola-Chicago ploded with six solid kills ro score positive attitude theory in their State tri-mect. Since then, she has Notre Dame points. The Irish hope march tonight and in all their hcen pa~sing on a tremendous HO/ Henken continues to exploit the remaining games. 
A's, Yanks, Expos and Astros win 

KANSAS CITI', .\.1o. (AP) -Tonr Armas hit two singles and two doubles, driving in hoth Oakland runs, and Steve McCatty outdudcd rookie Mike Jones to give the A's a 2·1 victory over the Kansas City Royals and a 2-0 lead in the American League West Division playoffs_ 
\111.\\'AllKEE ( AP) Rick Cerone lined a two-run double to Clp a t(ntr-run Ncw York fourth in­
• • • Club 
continued{rom page 12 
in till' country." ROWI;\/G -There wa~ good llt'\\'~ and bad news for the Rowing <Juh this Wl'l'k FirM. the good news. Tlw annuJI "Alumni Row" wa~ held la:--t Sat unlay. Thl· day's l'Vt·nts in­' htded three race~. pitting tht· mt·n·~ and woml·n·~ var~ity and novice lTl·ws against the alumni boats. as wt'll as a picnic. Bob Bennet, club president. sap "The purpo~t· is for t'\'t·ryont· to have a great rime. of cour~t·. hut more importantly to re-­acquailll paM oar~man with till' oar.,man of thl· dub'~ prc~l·nt statu~." :"liow the had tll'w~. The tl·an,-s boathouse was brlli-.l·n int<J SllnH'time \londa\' night. According to the dub'!> pre~itknt. Jloh IkntH'l!, the garage door pand was kicked in M>mcttmt· after 7:1 'i p.m..\londay Thl· burglar( s) m.uk '>If with two t·ngint'!o til<' te.un ust·s to power rhe coaches' laundll'S. Thl' t·nginl·s, one a I 5 horse po\\Tr and onl· 2"i. will l'O.,t an t'Sillll;llnl S.\.000 to replace. ·· \\'l·'w likd a rcpon wuh the \lish;m aka Polin· Ikpartml·nt.' says llt'lltH'll, "but thl') 'n· doubtful tor rl·u>vt·n· · The hoathou~t· b lo,·,Jtnl on I hl· :-o.t .h>~l·ph's J{tvcr in \I ishawaka. "\\ h.tl mal-.l·~ it W<>r,,-'' tllat \\l' 1u,t g<>l•>IH' <>II ht'l'llgtnc~ hal·k from being reparinl." he add' "That l'll'l u~ S"iOO. ..,inn· \\'l' onh han· two wn·b left in tht· ~ct~on. wt II prohahl) n·m l·nginl-~ from ( ounty I int· .\laruu Bur n>lllt' 'Pring. Wl''ll h.rn· to buy Ill'\\' one'. and tlt;tt will n·all\ ~t·t u' hacl-..' 
Irish 
<.'IJIJ ItII flt•tlfi·un/ jJ<Igl' 1.! 
l'ianc ,.tys. "I'd likt·· to win I linn(.. 
1hi' llll't'l 1, Vl'n important. If our 1-.ttb lllll "ilh Flortda Stall' and heat lht'm that 'hould give them rhl' con­tiden<T that tht·v can run with an\'otH' in the midwot" ning, and the Yankees rode brilliant singk ami striking out· three. relief pitching by Ron Davis and Moose Haas. who had beaten the Rich Gossage to a "i-3 victory over Yankees in t1vc of his last six deci­the :\tilwaukee Brewers last night in sions against them, was the losing the first game of the American pitcher as the Yankees shelled him 
League East Division championship for eight hits and four runs in 3 1-3 sl'fics. innings. Davis earned the victory with 2 2­3 innings of hitless, four-strike-out 
MONTREAL(AP)-Tim Wallachrelief after the Brewers had scored and Chris Speier combined for the
their final run off Yankees starter go-ahead run in the second inningRon Guidry in the tlfth. Gossage relieved Davis to start the Rrewer See PlAYOFFS, page 10 eighth and tlnished up. allowing one 

:There will be a general meeting for all •
'BIG BUS'' to O'HARE 
e those interested in working on ~ : 
6 
(now to Midway too!) 
. .
~ 
times daily from ND circle 
•JUNIOR ••••••••••••• 
LEAVE 
•
NOTRE DAME 
4:30a.m. 
• 
7"10 a.m 
9:oo·a~m. 
-_,0:45a.m. 
e
1:15p.m. 
5:20p.m 
•e 
• -­
Pick Up 
And Enjoy 
Your Spirits 
Lower Prices! 
...
"".:" ,.,' ... 
.. ~~~ ..­
case
Miller 
Stroh's 699 
3.99
Pabst 599 
.. 750ml.

case Old Milwaukee qts. 819 Arrc j' Schnapps 
4 69 
cinr: 1"\0n or spearmint KEGS 
1in Asti ...... 1so mt. 4 99 Bud or Busch 3399 Michelob call us fot ~I your party needs!
37 99 South Bend Ave. Nickoff Vodka 799 Yellow Jack ...... 7soml 6 Y9 233-4603 
...... 
. . . . I.75 ltr. 
Tequila .. .. .. .. 1so mt 4 99 Roseland 272-2522
Kahlua-........ 750ml.l 0.99 
NO COUPON NEEDED 
l'm.t arP invitPd to parti.qmte with us in the ('OIIWlellwrnti~m of the twenl_y-fifth annit,ersary of 0 'l..au~·hlin Awlitorium tlnd Moreau Fine Arts Center 
October 8, 1981 MEMORABILIA EXHIBIT 
H.1.mmcs Gallerv 
October 8, 9, 10, 1981 *GETI'ING OUT 
Writren by Marsha Norman Directed by Julie Jensen O'Laughlin Auditorium, 8:00pm 
October 9,1981 CONCERT 
h:.twring the •vorl< s of Norman Delio Joio Little Theatre, 8:00 pm 
October I J , 1981 FORMAL COMMEMORATION 014~ O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
1\iurnun Dell•> Joio, gues1 composcr-in-rc~idcnce 
O'Laughlin Auditorium, 2:00 pm 
*Tickets require~~ call 284-4176 
Sports Brie/§ 
by The OhJerwr and The A.rroaated Prnr 
All CreW memberS going to Boston for the Head of the Charles Regatta are asked to attend a mteting Thursday night at 9 
p.m. in the Little Theatre of LaFortune. Trip plans and final details will be .discussed. Everyone is reminded to bring their insurance forms. -The Observer 
Practice for the Notre Dame Women's Softball Club has been canceled for this week. There will be a mandatory meeting for all old and new members next '(utsday, Ouober I 3. Time and loca­tion will be announced. Call Karen Alig {7401) for more informa­tion. -The Observer 
Scubadiversor people interested in learning more about it are invited to an organizational meeting for the Notre Dame Scuba Diving Club tonight at 7:30p.m. in Room 2-D (off the ballroom) of LaFortune. For more information, call Rob at 289-5317. -The Ob­
server 
The director of the runner's clinic at George Washington University, David Brody, M.D., will speak tomorrow at 11 a.m, in the Paulin Room ofSt. joe's Hospital in South Bend. Dr. Brody is an M.D. in Sports Medicine. -The Observer 
.................... /NTERHALL 
INTERHAll CROSS COUNTRY MEET RESULTS 2.6·mlle event results Teams: 
1) Mornssey 
2) St. Ed's 
3) Keenan 
4) Dillon 
. Individuals 1) Tim 0 Connor 13:06 Mornssey 2) T1m McMahon 13 07 Pangborn 
3) John Koechley 13:43 Keenan 
4) Dave Mohlman 13:48 St. Eds 
5) M1ke G1llesp1e 13:56 Monssey 
The second in the senes of cross·country meets w1ll be held Monday. October 12, at 4.45 p m. Runners should meet on the second tee of the golf course. For lurther detailS. call the NVA office at 6100 

NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE 
Wednesdays Results Buffalo 5, Washington 3 Pittsburgh 5, Chicago 5, tie Edmonton 7, Colorado 4 New York Islanders 4, Los Angeles 1 
Thursday, October 8, 1981 -page 10 
• • • Playoffs 
continuedfrom page 9 
offSteve Carlton as the Montreal Ex­pos beat the Philadelphia Phillies, 3­l, yesterday in the first game oftheir best-of-5 series for the National League East championship. 
The Expos, winners ofthe second half, and the Phillies, first-half champs in major league baseball's tlrst split season, meet here tonight in the second game. 
The Expos took the lead 2-1 in the second when _Wallach, a .236 hitter in tht: regular season, led off with a double to center and raced home on a single by Speier, who hit .225 during the season. 
Steve Rogers, who posted a 12-8 season record, was the winner. The only run off the Expos' right-hander was a leadoffhome run in the second inning by catcher Keith Moreland. 
Moreland's drive on a 2-2 pitch just eluded a desperate one-handed effort by center fielder Andre Daw­son to make the catch near the .400 
foot mark. 
HOUSTON (AP) -Pinch-hitter Denny Walling's two-out, line-drive single into right-center field with the bases loaded in the bottom ofthe IIth inning carried the Houston Astros to a 1-0 victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers yesterday and gave them a 2-0 edge in the National League West Division playoffs. 
Walling's clutch hit on a 1-1 pitch from reliever Torn Niedenfuer scored Phil Garner from third base with the winning run. 
The loser for the second day in a row was reliever Dave Stewart, who came on in the bottom of the 11th and yielded back-to-back singles to Garner and Tony Scott. 
The Dodgers walked Cesar Cedeno intentionally, which loaded the bases and set the stage for Wal­ling, who was pinch-hitting for shortstop Dickie Thon. 
-...... 
Ahoy Mates! A classic deck-shoe-look for men and women. 
Genuine leather uppers and leather laces and non-skid ri.bbed sole. 
Sale ends Sunday • 
on Men's and Women's Leather Mocs 

; 
I 

The Observer-­
T0 da~===============T=h:;::u=r=sd=a=y=,=O=c=to=b=e=r=S=,=1=9=8=1==p=a=ge=1=11 
Molarity 

coLoNt:L, SIR! we MT !ffCEtVEJ> 1/ lf€f'r:lff f',fo,>! fECMNif/SStlNCE. 1/IEY'VE. Sf'OTT'€0 Tile F,fEWt>I/W BL/JE TEAM JITr!A/6 IN II Ct(faE, T1llktN6 rc If P/f1E5T! 
6ET I'IY CHOI'I'E/f,I C.OLOAIEl !! .I ()IJlY 
4 Modish 27 Long time
The Daily Crossword 
8 Graham of 28 French 
football artist 12 Prohibits 30 Have faith 14 Amount 34 -Benedict 
friend 38 Box 16 Robt.-39 Plagues 17 PreserVing 41 Anglo-Saxon 
one's image coin 19 Supplant 43 Hasten 21 Bridge win 44 Takes a 22 Followre· breather 
lentlessly 46 Comes apart 23 Changes 48 Relin· chemically quishes 
Wednesday's Solution 

©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
10/8/81 
ACROSS 24 Supple 1 Dosums 26 Carried 
Michael Molinelli 
Garry Trudeau 

Jeb Cashin 

50 Courtyards 23 O'Grady 51 Golfer Lee 24 Fledgling 52 Journey sound 
break 25 Theater 55 Confronting section 57 Pack 26 Seats for 58 Czar's name judges 59 Lamb-like? 29 Blasts of 60 Dismounted wind 61 Part of 31 Cataclysms 
USA: abbr. 32 Go to sea 62 Places 33-bien! 63 Understand 35 Taking long 
steps 
DOWN 37 Satiric 1 Tuckedin drawing 2 Salvador 40 Dice roll 
the artist 42 Waterproof 3 Bandages canvas, 4 Fissure for short 5 Place 45 Suiting 
buzzing materials 
with action 47 Stringed 6 Here: Fr. instrument 7 Heart 48 Make rugs 8 Police 49 Northern 9 Treatise highway 
10 Shifts 50 Indian course wheat 11 "The -I plants 
Love" 52 Barbecue 13 Dividing need membranes 53 Adamsof 14 Prayer song book 54 Network of 18 Giftofa nerves kind 55 Flipper 20 Territory 56 Rubber tree 
Campus 
•9:30 
a.m. -opening. memorabilia exhibit, hammes gallery, smc, sponsored by moreau gallery, exhibit continues throught oct. 2"i. 

•!24 
p.ni. -arts and letters career dav, second floor Iafortune. sponsored by plan·ment ilureau. 

•12: 
I<; p.m. -meeting. new faculty, carroll hall, smc. 

•4 
p.m. -lecture. william caudill, faia-houston, ar· chitecture auditorium. sponsored by architecture department. 

• 
6:30 p.m. -meeting. aksec, lat(>rtune little theater. 


•.., p.m. -met:ting, junior parents weekend com· mittee. Iafortune littk theatre. all interestnlurged to attend. 
•"" p.m. -slide show, india, carroll hall, snlC, sponsored hy snlC india program. 
•"":30 
p.m. -tllm, "the!' big heat", annenherg auditorium. 

• 
"":30 p.m. -meeting. notre dame scuba diving dub. room 2-d Iafortune, all interested wdcome. 


•"". 9: I<;, I I ::~0 p.m. -tllm, "alil·n", engr. aud., sponsored hy junior class. S I. 
•H 
p.m. -nd/smc th<·atre. "getting out". hy marsha norman, o'laughlin auditorium. dirt·ctt·d.hy julie jenst:n. 

•l) 
p.m. -open stag~: night, nazz. all welcome. 


Television Tonight 
7:00  28  Mork & Mindy  
16  National League Playoff  
22  .'vlagnum PI  
34  Jazz: An American Classic  
46  LESEA Telethon  
7:30  28  Best of the West  
34  The Victory Garden  
8:00  34  Sneak Previews  
28  Bosorn Buddies  
22  Special .'vlovic Cagn<"Y & Lan·y  
46  I.ESEA Telethon  
8:30  28  Taxi  
34  The Woodwright's Shop  
9:00  34  :'vlastnpicce Theatre  
28  20/20  
46  I.ESEA Telt-thon  
10:00  34  Tht· Dick Cavell Show  
28  N<·wswatch .2H  
22  2.2 Eyewitness N<·w~  
46  LESEA Tel<·thon  
10:30  22  (.)uincy/The Saini  
16  NewsCl'lller 16  
28  ABC News Nightlin<·  
34  Caplionnl All<. ~l"V.'S  
11:00  34  Sign Oil  
28  Vegas  
16  Tonight Show  
46  I.ESEA Telethon  
12:00  16  Tomorrow Coast 10 Coast  
28  l.atl' Night N<·wshrkf  

Today in History 
Today's highlight in history: 
In 19.">4, Bruno Hauptmann was indicted for murder in the death of the infant son of aviation pioneer Charles Lindberg. 
On this date: In 1939. Germany incorporated western Poland into tht· Third Reich. 
In 194<;, President !larry Truman announced that the United States would share its atomic secrets only with Britain and Canada. 
And in 197\ heavy fighting in Bt:ir and northern Lebanon took at least 2"i lives. shattering tht· latest truce ht·twt-en warring Christians and Moslems. 
Five years ago: president Ford apologized to Polish-Americans for saying in his debate with Jim· my Carter that the Soviet l :nion did not dominate Eastern Europe. 
One year ago: Turkey's new military regimt· hanged two convicted terrorists, th<· tlrst l"Xecu· tions in that nation in eight years. 
-
·• 

"The Great Gin 
Tonight: 
. & Tonic Special" 9:30 -2:00 don't miss friday 


======Homecoming SpeciaF===== 
The Student Union & ACC present 
=w'om rnrm~corn rn®~~z= 
IN CONCERT Fri., Oct. 9 at the ACC 
Student Lottery Is Mon., Sept 14 at 7 pm "---t"--+f-.3L..L in the LaFortune Ballroom 
~~ror---' 
also on sale at ACC Box Office ticket prices are $9.50 and $10.00 
---~-----­
Sports 
Novice boxers ready for debut 
Thursday, October 8, 1981-page 12 
One thing one finds common in all clubs is the way the people seem to "hit it off" in friendship with new people they meet. 
The boxing club (non·coed) headed by senior co· presidents Rick Hillsman and John Donovan is no ex­ception, save for the fact that sometimes the "hitting off' part extenuates to its literal sense. 
"One thing about this sport is that you'll know right off from the first week -or even day -whether boxing is the sport for you or not," says Hillsman. 
At least 40 of the 80 people that had originally signed up in the first week of September found the novice boxing program in the fall suitable to their tastes. After maintaining a six-week program ofdeveloping skills for five days a week, two-and-a-half hours a day, and run­ning three to five miles every three or four days to boot, the novice boxers ge.t a chance to strut their talents in the "Pre-Semester Break Novice Tournament" to be held this coming Tuesday the 13th at 3:00 p.m. and Thursday tht: 15th (for the finals) at 7:00 p.m. in the 
ACC boxing room next to the hockey rink. 
"The people who do well in this tournament usually do well in the Bengal Bouts in March" says Donovan, referring to the annual event that is natioally-tdevised by NBC. "We had about 200 people attend this novice event last yt:ar, so it can get pretty exciting." 
No admission is charged, but proceeds from the hat­passing do go to the missions in Bangladesh (over S l 00 was collected last year). 
The boxing club's activities are divided into two phases. In the first semester fundamentals arc in­troduced, hence, the existence of the novice program, while in the second semester the program is tailored towards structuring one's own workouts in the efforts toward building gradual improvement. 
"It helps in the second semester if you learned from the first" says Donovan, last year's I SO-pound Bengals champion. "The first semester has the purpose ofbuild­ing up interest and experience for the second semester. It can give you a sense of accomplishment while also giving you something to shoot for. You can pick things
... up in the second semester too, but the pace of doing things is a lot faster." Says Hillsman, "It's not until the final two weeks in the first semester that we actually work in the ring. We just drill so much in the first weeks with jabs, the punch­ing bag, speed bag and everything else so that once the person is ready for ringwork. all the drills become a second nature for him. "It takes a lot of patience," he continues. "We have, and had. so many good athletes here who get so frustrated when they're not instant stars. It's tough get-

ring used to being jacked in the nose so many times, that's why we emphasize most ofour time on basic drill­ing and body control maintainment. Then they can take it from there by applying their own style ofboxing with what they learn." 
One of the mistakes made with the word "novice" is correlating it with "freshman." However, it's been the skill of two seniors, John "Weekend" Mandfreda and Scot O'Brien, that have been most impressive in the ring as beginners. Both are rated by the co-presidents as "dark horses" for the Bengals. Other features ofthe club include the all important safety standards, a good frater­nal relationship between the members which"makes it difficult to fight sometimes," according to Hillsman, and the "for the fun of it" aspect where a person can work out to get in shape, or perhaps practice on self-defense skills, but who is not obligated to enter the ring. 
Next week, though, it will be all business in the ring as 40 boxers in I 0 weight classes begin their dress­rehearsal quest for the Bengal Bouts, a rehearsal which the audience may mjoy more than ever. 
"We had a good novice team last year, and we have a really good one this year," says Donovan. "There's more boxing talent around here now than I've ever seen. 
"The tournaments this year are going to be awesome." 
WATER POLO-Led by an eight-goal performance by junior Tom Austgen, the Water Polo Club evened its record at 1-1 with a 14-9 trouncing of Purdue at West Lafayette last Saturday. Sophomore John Smith scored two goals, while goalie Chris Packer payed a fine game in the net. 
SAILING -The club finished fourth in a I2-team regatta held at Ann Arbor, Mich., last week. Skipper Phil Reynolds and crew Carol Silva finished fourth in the "A" Division, while a sixth place performance was turned in by skipper Angelo Capozi and crew Chris Hussey in the "B" Division. An impressive performance this weekend at Iowa could lead to an invitation to participate in the "Sugar Bowl Regatta," in New Orleans the final week of December. This is one of the largest collegiate regattas 
See CLUB, page 9 

Irish runners face toughcompetition ahead 
ByEARLRIX 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame Cross Country team will attempt to rebound from a dissapointing IIth place finish at last week's Notre Dame Invitational when they host a dual meet against the Florida State Seminoles this Saturday. 
The six-mile race will start at 
10:30 on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. "Our kids are training great," said Head Coach Joe Piane, "they just haven't been able to put it 
together in a meet yet." 
Florida State is expected to be tough and their runners boast some impressive credentials. Two ofthem qualified for the NCAA's last year, two have run 5,000 meters in 14:20 and another has run 8:50 in the 3,000 meter steeplechase. "The Seminoles are probably as good as anyone we'll run with all season," said Piane. That is not to say that the Irish don't have both an ex­tremely talented and deep lineup. 
See IRISH, page 9 
Outlook bright for FSU after improvements 
There comes a time in every football season that a team has to show its mettle. Football tt:ams face challenges every week. and a coach gets an idea what kind of football team he has by how well it responds to challenges. We faced one last week preparing for \1ichigan State. 
Our coaching staff wondered how our kids would respond during practice last week after two difikult losses. particular­ly the last·second one at Purdue. A lot of teams would have folded after that one, but we got an immediate answer in practice on Monday. 
Right from the start our players showed us that they wt:re determined to put the loss<:s behind them and work to turn around the season. As the week went'on, we could tell by their hard work that they hadn't lost any enthusiasm. They worked with purpose. 
It carried over into last Saturday's game. I was very impressed with Michigan State as a team and Muddy Waters as a coach and a person. He had his team playing with inten­sity and enthusiasm. 
But I was equally impressed with the way our kids rebounded. I think they show~;d their true character. We not only overcame the adversity ofthe two losses, but we played without some key offensive and defensive personnel who had been injured the previous weeks. 
As I said in an earlier column, depth is an important de­ment in college football. That became evident on our fourth play from the line of scrimmage Saturday when our co­captain, tailback Phil Carter, came up limping with a ankle sprain. 
Sophomore Greg Bell, who had filled in earlier this fall when Phil was recovering from a hamstring injury, was ready when we called on him. He ran hard all afternoon. finishing with 165 yards on .20 carries and two touchdowns and had another 75-yard scoring run called back because ofa holding penalty. 
When Greg was forced to leave the game midway through the third quarter with a hip pointer, freshman Chris Smith and senior Bernie Adell filled in admirably to preserve our 20-7 victory. Bernie. a S-1 0, 205-pounder from Ipswich, Mass.. was a very pleasant surprise. We didn't really know his potential until this fall bec":luse we had kept him out ofspring drills so that his knee injury could fully heal. 

When Bt'fnie went into the game at the beginning of the fourth quarter, I felt the victory was more important than more points on the scoreboard. That's why we went to con­servative football. · 
Of course, the reason why all our tailbacks enjoyed such 
productive afternoons was the work ofour offensive linemen 
-tackles Phil Pozderac and Tom Thayer, guards Mike Shiner 
and Larry Kissner, center Mark Fischer and tight end Dean 
Masztak. I can't say enough about the job they did. They 
allowed us to control the ball all afternoon; especially in the 
final 5:33 ofthe game. 
That was a key drive for us, but the two most Crucial came 
in the first half I felt we needed to take control of the game 
right away, and when defensive end Kevin Griffith recovered 
a fumble on Michigan State's first play from scrimmage, we 
had that opportunity. 
On that initial drive, we twice were faced with fourth-and­one decisions whether to go for the first down or kick the field goal. On the t1rst one at their I 4 it did cross my mind to 
kick one. but I had confidence our kids could score seven and 
that's why I went for it. Unfortunately, w~ lost Carter on the 
play after he made nine yards. 
There was no doubt in my mind to go for the touchdown 
the next time we had a fourth-down play at their one. Since it 
was early in the game, I figured if we missed, Michigan State 
would still have bad field position. As it turned out, the 
players made the decision a good one. 
The second crucial drive came after Michigan State had 
scored on a 63-yard touchdown pass late in the first half. I had 
felt we had controlled the game to that point, but that one big 
play had put them back into the game and given them some momentum. We needed to take some of it away before halftime. 
There was only I :02 left on the clock when we got the ball back at our own ll'l, and our kids did an excellent job moving tht: ball downtkld to the .'vlichigan State 21 where Harry Oliver kicked a :'Il-l-yard field goal from a rough angle with five seconds left. Those were three very big point~. 
The key to our defensive perti:Jrmance was the work ofour defensive line, one that has hcen hit hard hy injuries. Our linemen have played well this season, except on the few oc­casions where they've lost containment on the quarterback. That din't happen Saturday, and l was pleased with tht:ir four quarterback sacks, the three they broke up and the nvo fumbles that Grifllth recovered. 
I'm still not pleased that we allowed another big play. We've got to work to eliminate them, but sometimes you can't. With so many great athletes today in college football, big plays will occur more because of great execution on the part ofyour opponent than by your own mistakes. 
It's so difficult to completely shut down an opponent, and anyone who plays as difficult a schedule as we play will find out. Moose Krause, our retired athletic director, is one of my best friends, but he sure left us with one tough schedule this year. 
It's easy to see why this week's opponent, Florida State, is 3-1. They have excellent team speed, they throw the ball well and their defense and kicking game are excellent. Thay are strong in all aspects of the game. Coach Bobby Bowden has done an excellent job, particularly when you consider his team's schedule is also one of the toughest in the country. 
Saturday's game will be Florida State's third straight on the road. They must travel to Pittsburgh and Louisiana State after our game and they've already played at Nebraska and Ohio State. Last week, Ohio State's home-field advantage didn't bother Florida State at all. That's a sign ofa great football team 
and a well-coached one. 
Florida State offers our football team another challenge this week. The taste of victory in the locker room last week was sweet, but we've got to keep working and improving to meet the challenges that still lie ahead. 
