

• • .Cheerleaders -page 7 
\ 
VOL XV, NO. 78 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 1981 

Rapist sighted? 
Area crime runs rampant 
Scholars to study Holy City 
By MIKE O'BRIEN next week when the North vened the group to deal with cul­StaffReporter American members oftheJerusalem tural and educational issues Committee gather here to discuss stemming from the city's reunifica­
Throughout history and during the political future of the Holy City. tion, which occurred in 1969 after the more modern times of the 20th Twenty-six prominent scholars Israel's victory over Jordan in the century, the world's spotlights have and professionals will participate In Six-Day War. 
focused in on the drama concerning tomorrow's and Thursday's sessions, Jerusalem was divided some 40 the fate of the ancient city of hosted by University President Fr. years ago when the United Nations Jerusalem. Notre Dame will share in Theodore Hesburgh and Jerusalem set up the state of Israel. This action the glow and heat of these spotights Mayor Teddy Kollek, who founded was highly controversial, since 
the group in 1969. 
Jerusalem Is considered a holy city Noteworthy amoung the par­
by the religions ot the two opposmg ticipants are Dr. Ursula Niebuhr, 
·forces in the Middle East, Judaism wife of the late Reinhold Niebuhr, a 
and Islam, a<; well as by Christianity, well known theologian, scientist­all three who feared the loss of inventor Buckminster Fuller, and access to the city's shrines.
Hostages feted at service 
representatives of the Yale and Har­The heated controversy was vard Divinity Schools. fueled last summer when the Israeli ND Director of Information Parliament, the Knesset, passed a
WEST POINT, N.Y. (AP) -The third-ranking official in the embassy Koob, 43, of Fairfax, Va "The hymns Services Richard Conklin said yes­res'olution declaring a unifiedliberated hostages offered prayers of when it was seized, said Monday that that were sung, the anthems that terday that this week's session ofthe Jerusalem the capital of Israel. Kol·gratitude in a chapel service at West the United States should honor the were sung, were all things very committee is tb'~' first to discuss the lek, mayor of the city, had oppossedPoint yesterdy and sang the psalms deal because "it's important that we meaningful to us and ones we sang in politics of Jerusalem. Conklinthat kept their •aith alive during maintain our mora! leadership." captivity right down to the same related that Kulick initially con-See ISRAEL, page 6 
their long ordeal in Iran. One by one, throughout their number of songs and the number of In Washington, President Reagan second day back In America, the hymns." received a hriefing from Secretary of hostages voluntarily breached the Last Christmas, Miss Koob used State Alexamler M. Haig with the seclusion the government had the time given to her by the Iranian 
Rep. Kelly convicted
disquieting news that about a dozen solicitously arranged for them at the captors to send a television message of the o;z freed Americans are suffer­U.S. Military Academy. They went to home by singing the carol, "Away In ing "severe damagt·." mostly psyc­reporters to say they were over­a Manger." hological. whelmed at the welcome they had In yesterday's sel'vice, the 

in Abscarn scandal
White House Pres~ Secretary been accorded and to ask for time to hostages sang "The Battle Hymn of James Brady said, ·"People were adjust. the Republic," "How Lovely Are Thy 
talked about by name, what spt·dfic "Give me time, please, to sort of Dwellings," "Our God, Our Help in WASHINGTON (AP) -Former S4, an accountant from Smithtown, problems were, and all that." He said come into this gradually, give me a Ages Past," and "Now Thank We All Rep. Richard Kelly, the only N.Y. The government said they were the briefing left Reagan "a little chance to cope," pleaded Richard Our God." Republican member of Congress middlemen in a S.250,000 bribery watery-eyed." But Brady did not Morefield, 51, of San Diego. "It was incredible," said Miss charged in the FBI's Abscam under­scheme in which Kelly wao; to eceive identify the hostages involved. Morefield was U.S. consul-general in Koob." cover operation, was convicted yes­S7S,000 in addition to thl' JlS,OOO 
Brady said the former hostages' Tehran when the embassy was over­Elizabeth Ann Swift, 39, ap­terday, with two co-defendants, of he gotJan. 8, 1980. over-riding concerns were their run and seized by Iranian militants. proached reporters arm in arm with taking part in a S2SO,OOO bribery Weisz was shown on videotape jobs and futures. "They want to get Miss Koob, who had been her conspiracy. taking a S50,000 payoff from an
At services in their honor yester­
back on the career path," he said. roommate during part of their cap­The jury ofseven women and five "aide' the fictitious Arab sheik on
day, the ex-hostages pleaded for a Reagan issued a proclamation tivity. "We just want to thank men deliberated for just over 6 J/2 Feb. 2, 1980, in a hotel at Kennl·dy
chance to adjust. 
declaring Thursday a national day of "Give me time, please, to sort of everyone for giving us this little time hours before finding the trio guilty Airport in New York. Weisz testified thanksgiving and made arrange­come into this gradually, give me a to get ourselves together," she .said, on three charges that carried maxi· he regarded the money a<; a legal fin­ments to welcome the freed adding with a shout: "We're so mum prison terms of 25 years for der's fee for introducing Kelly to the
chance to cope," pleaded Richard Americans to the capital yesterday. happy to be back. We're so happy to each defendant. supposed Arab sheik's
Morefield, 51, of San Diego. be back. It's' simply marvelous." Kelly immediately vowed to ap­representatives.
New York City made tentative Morefield was ll.S. consul-general in peal the verdict, saying, "The war Ciuzlo said he took part in the deal
plans to hold a traditional ticker­Tehran when the·embassy was over­In their talks with reporters, the goes on." because he regarded the supposed
tape parade down Broadway on run and seized by Iranian militants. former captives and their famllles of­sheik's aides as "conmen" whom he
Friday, even though Haig had coun­"It's Important for me to share fered a wide range of reaction, som­Five other members of Congress, seled against one. with you what has happened," he ber and joyful: all Democrats, have also been con­was trying to outwit. 
An Associated Press-NBC News added. The prayer service was -Army Master Sgt. Regis Ragan, victed on Abscam charges. Only Kelly was convicted of bribery poll said that 6 Americans out of IQ held In West Point's non­who rushed to the bedside of his one, Rep. Raymond Lederer of Pen­and Weisz and Cluzio were con­think the deal former PresidentJim­denominational chapel for cadets, mother immediately upon landing nsylvania, Is still serving in the victed of aiding and abetting my Carter struck with Iran to free on a hilltop overlooldng the in New York state Sunday, returned House. bribery, punishable by up to 1'5 the captive Americans was the best academy. to the hosta~e JUOup and said: "tell Kelly's co-defendants were Gino years In prison. 
possible under the circumstances. "The service looked like It had Ciuzlo, 49, a busines5man from 
See ABSCAM, pqe6

Moorhead C. Kennedy Jr., the been designed by us," said Kathryn See HOSTAGES, page 4 Longwood, Fla., and Stanley Weisz, 
Bruce Springsteen gave his long-awaited performance at the ACC last night. See related photo on page 6. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
President cries 

By MARY FRAN CALLAHAN 
Senior Copy Editor 
Incidents marred the past two days as a Notre Dame student almost had her purse snatched, two Saint Mary's students were frightened by "someone or something" on Saint Mary's Road, a man similar to the description of last week's rape suspect was spotted on U.S. 31, and a local youth allegedly posed as a Dillon Hall janitor in an attempt to burglarize rooms, according to Information Service's Richard Conklin. 
In the first incident, Conklin said a Notre Dame stu· 
dent was walklng to Pasquerllla Hall from the library 
when "a youth" attempted to snatch her purse.. Details 
of the Sunday evening confrontation remain sketchy, 
but the woman prevented the theft and escaped un· 
scathed. 
Shortly after 10 p.m. Sunday, two Saint Mary's girls 
reported to Security that they had been "frightened," 
according to Conklin, by "somethingor somecrne in the 
graveyard." The cemetery is adjacent to the road on 
which the girls were walking. 
Conklin said, however, that Security officials could not determine whether or not a person, a shadow or "perhaps some trees moving in the wind" had frightened the women: 
A man wearing an orange ski mask -the same type last week's rape suspect allegedly wore -was also spotted Sunday night, walking south on U.S. 31. Alice notified of the man, however, security ollkials could not locate him. 
The Office of Information Services also reported yes­terday that police were questioning a "I 7-year-old South Bend youth" who allegedly posed as a janitor in Dillon Hall and used the guise to burglarize students' 
rooms. 
A Dillon Hall resident said the burglar was first 
spotted shortly after 6 a.m. yesterday morning. 
The resident added that the burglar was "mostly after clothes." The student explained that dorm n:sidl·nts put their laundry bags outside the hall's chutes sinn· they are usually overloaded. 
Upon noticing the thief, residents called Security, and officials apprehended the youth upon arrival. 

·-\ 
. ;

News Brie/§ 
Tuesday, January 27, 1981 -page 2 
~b~y=;T.~be~O~b:se:r:v~er~a~n=d~T.~b~e:A7s:s:oc:ra:t:ed~P~r=~:s::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::l 

An indecent phone call conviction based on the use of vulgarly abusive language was allowed to stand yesterday on a 7-2 vote ofthe U.S. Supreme Court. The two justices voting to hear the appeal of Don Hott of Huntington, Ind., were William J. Brennan Jr; and Thurgood Marshall. However, four votes are needed to grant such a review. Hott was sentenced to 180 days in jail and fined Sl,OOO for cursing at two law enforcement officers on the telephone. He asked the high court to rule that his language, offensive as it may have been, was not legally "obscene" -that is, not sexy. Hott, who had a grievance against a deputy police sergeant, telephoned the Hun­tington chief'of police at 11 p.m. on Dec. 21, 1976, and asked him to arrest the officer. The chief refused. "Thereupon," as the Huntington County Court phrased it, "defendant called him names in vile gutter language, impugning canine ancestry with tendencies en fellatio." "Minutes later," the court related, "the defendant called the prosecut­ing attorney at his home, also awakening him from his sleep. This conversation was similar ... but here, the words used simply impugned canine ancestry." "In our Huntington County, Indiana, case," the ap­
peal said, "the chief of police was upset and angered but was not sexually aroused. The prosecutor was angered and upset but was not sexually aroused."-AP 
Leaders of the Moslem world yesterday took up a resolution aimed at forcing Israel to end its occupation of Arab territory and to beef up the military and strengthen the Palestine Liberation Organization. A draft copy of the resolution by Islamic foreign ministers presented on the second day ofthe summit was ob­
tained by The Associated Press. The resolution's strategy was to pressure Israel's friends int~ forcing the Jewish state to give up Arab land occupied during the 1967 Mideast War. It spoke of "freezing" Israeli membership in the United Nations, but did not elaborate on what measures might be tried short ofattempting to expel Israel from from the world body -an action that would face a U.S. veto. "Islamic states would use all their military, political, economic and natural resources -including oil -as an effective means for upholding the natural, inalienable rights of the Palestinian people," said the docu­ment. If approved by the 28 heads of state and top-level representatives from nine other Arab, African and Asian nations, the Islamic states would pledge. to give "military expertise and equip­
ment" to Yasser Arafat's PLO. -AP 

Thousands ofstudentswere reported yesterday to have occupied a building at the University of Lodz to demand aboli­tion ofcompulsory classes in Marxism, raising new tensions in Com­munist Poland. The sit-in by over 2,000 students, reported by student sources, came as farmers in southern Poland warned of new strikes if an "authorized" government team failed to appear Tuesday to discuss demands for a rural version of Solidarity, the independent union. Meanwhile, the state-run press launched what appeared to be a cam­paign against Solidarity, the movement born when strikes flared last summer over a steep rise in meat prices and now claiming 10 million members. The Communist Party daily Trybuna Ludu and the army's Zolnierz Wolnosci printed readers' letters attacking last week's scat­tered strikes and nationwide work boycott Saturday by millions of Poles backing Solidarity demands for a 40-hour, five-day workweek. -AP :• 
States are free to anow radio, television and still­photographycoverage ofcriminal trials even when defendants object, a unanimous Supreme Court ruled yesterday. The court said such broadcast and photographic coverage does not automatically inter­fere with a defendant's right to a fair trial. "An absolute constitutional ban on broadcast coverage oftrials cannot be justified simply because 
there is a danger that, in some cases, prejudicial broadcast accounts of pretrial and trial events may impair the ability of jurors to decide the issue ofguilt or innocence uninfluenced by extraneous matter," Chief Justice Warren E. Burger said. The decision, while a momentous vic­tory for the news media, did not extend any new "right of access." Instead, Burger's opinion emphasized that "states must be free to ex­periment" with photo and bro'adc.ast coverage. More than half the states have decided, on either a permanent or an experimental basis, to allow some camera and microphone coverage of court proceed­ings. Not all these states, however, have allowed coverage ofcriminal trials over a defendant's objection. -AP 
No greased pig chase will be held during this year's Mountaineer Week at West Virginia University, after complaints that the event subjects the pursued porkers to "stress, terror and possible injury." The local Humane Society says it received several such com­plaints after the pig chase during last October's Mountaineer Week. The objections have prompted the program committee for the annual football season festival to drop the chase from this year's schedule according to Sylvia Bluhm of the humane society. "Greasing a pig, setting him loose to be chased down and captured by a crowd of 
people, with the resultant sress, terror and possible injury or death to the pig, clearly violates the state law," Ms. Bluhm said. She said that during last year's chase, the pig "was not only terrorized, but crushed by big people falling on him." Ms. Bluhm said the society was "grateful to the compassionate people who called this dreadful animal abuse to our attention." -AP 

Howardjohnson's originalroadside restaurant, the fll"st to bear the vivid orange-tile roof that became a trademark of the chain, was in ashes yesterday in Boston. The two-story building was gutted by fire Sunday night, shortly after a half-dozen diners and four employees fled. There were no serious injuries. The establish­ment, opened in 1935, was the model for a chain that grew to 867 restaurants and 521 motor lodges in the U.S., Canada, Puerto Rico and the Bahamas. The company was sold last year to Imperial Group Ltd. of Great Britian. Howard Johnson first went into business in 1924 with an ice cream stand on Wollaston Beach in Quincy, about two miles 
from the site ofthe fire. -AP 
Cloudy with a chance of snow today. high around 

27. Cloudy with snow flurries tonight, low in the low 20s. -The Obseroer 
Notre Dame's president, Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, recently expressed shock that not only had the Supreme Court permitted ·legal abortion on request, but that his "valiant companions-in-arms during two decades ofstruggles for social justice...generally agreed with theJustices." 
"The judgment," Hesburgh continued, "seemed con­trary to the moral instincts, not to mention convictions, of most Americans." The full text of Hesburgh's com­ments were published in Visitor magazine, a national. Catholic family magazine. 
Well, perhaps it is time for Catholics to open their eyes. It is easy to argue, as Hesburgh did, that abortion is immoral and unjust. But no one is listening. 
A two-year survey of abortion patients at clinics in Boston revealed that most ofthem were single Catholic women. In fact, a staggering 66 percent of the patrons 
were Catholic, out of an overall Catholic population of 35 percent. And an equally-staggering 54 percent never used birth control. 
The awesome fact here is that many of these women actually said that they thought it preferable to sin once through abortion rather than to sin repeatedly by using birth control. With publicity like that, the Catholic Church looks downright foolish as it tenaciously holds to its traditional doctrine. If, as Hesburgh says, abortion goes against the grain of the American moral psyche, then why is it such a popular alternative to preventive birth control? 
The Catholic Church can only debase itselffurther if it continues to dabble in the political consequences of the abortion issue. Pro-life marches are fme, since they express the opinion of the marchers themselves. But blanket statements by the clergy condemning the Supreme Court's decision merely serve to pit the Church against the government -forcing citizens to "pick sides" and creating a no-win situation. 
The abortion issue was blown even further out of 

proportion just prior to last year's elections. Barney 
Frank, a candidate for a Massachusetts House of 
Representatives berth, came out in support oflegalized 

abortion. In retaliation, Cardinal Humberto Medeiros, 
archbishop of Boston, urged Catholics to vote against 
Frank because of this stance. Interestingly enough, 
Frank was contesting for a post vacated by a Catholic 
priest who was forced to step down after a Vatican 
ruling stated that priesthood and politics did not mesh. 
And, even more interesting is the fact that this priest 
had supported federal funding for abortion. 
All this is very complicated, and it must certainly 
transmit a confused and confusing message to Catholics 
who are sincerely trying to follow their consciences. 
Hesburgh's complaints·_ that he has "tried hard to 
understand how what was so obvious" to him, i.e., the 
immorality ofabortion, was so "unconvincing" to those 
"valiant" cohorts ofhis-are slightly pompous. Maybe 
he should take a look at how the Church and its ex­
ecutives have presented the issue to us lay plebeians. 
Those women who underwent an abortion, believing 
that it was really less sinful than repeated birth control, 
have equalized these two vi<?lations of Church dogma 
to the point where they apparently allow for a one-to-

Design Editor ............. Ryan Ver Berkmoes Design Assistants, ................. Roban Bottei 
Jeff Moore, Alex Severino Layout Staff............................. Lynne Daley Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor .............................. Lynne Daley Copy Editor ........................ Connie Cooney Sports Copy Editor ................... Tim Prister Systems Control .................... Tim Debell us ND Day Editor ......................... CindyJones Ad Design............................ Woody and Co. Pbotograpber ....................Tim McKeough 


Aborted Morality 
I
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation 
I

TUESDAYperiods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year 
I 
($1 0 per semester) by writing The 

NIGHT I Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre 
I Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 
I I
46556. The Observer is amember of the Associated Press. All reproduction 

1 2cansofbeerfor$1.00 I 
rights are reserved. 


1----------------~ 

one trade-off: one pill for one abortion. Yet the two are clearly not equal. 
Why, then, does the Catholic Church continue to close its eyes and plug its ears while handing down its dictates? The clergy persists in viewing problems with the same black-and-white absolutism as that in which they are garbed. Real concern for the people'who inter­pret these directives literally, such as the women who 
suffered through the psychological trauma ofabortion, is apparently absent. In fact, the Chuch ensured that the trauma would be made greater by its strong anti­abortion stance. Very few people have not seen the Right-to-Life pamphlets depicting bloodied fetuses. 
The fact that the Church takes such a stand iswonder­fu~ especially in the face of such adversity, but why must it continue to claim that this stance is the popular one, when numerically it is not? And even many ofthose who do oppose the principle ofabonion are repelled by the holier-than-thou, my-way-or-else attitude of many abortion opponents. 
This is probably the biggest weakness ofthe Church: its absolute refusal to admit that there is a grey area here. I have no argument with any statement made by pro-lifers, but I do object to their irrationality on the subject, their absolute unwillingness to listen to, and take into account, mitigating circumstances. 
Abortion aside, it only makes sense that the Church should at long last legalize birth control, iffor no other reason than it may possibly alleviate the number of abortions by Catholic women. Sexual mores have changed, for betterorfor worse, and the Church should be enough in tune with its constituents that it is able to recognize the fact. But this is not the case. 
I deeply regret that my church is rapidly becoming somewhat ofa laughingstock, as the chasm between the hierarchy and the laymen widens. The number of Catholics practicing birth control, or who are at least in favor ofit, has topped 80 percent, according to a recent survey ofyoung, married, Catholic couples. Why, then, does the church refuse to alter its stance, even the slightest bit? 
It would be wrong to advocate that the Church bend to the whims ofsociety, and that is not my intention. It does seem that the Church should maintain an "ear to the ground" policy, to try to take today's so£iety int"u account when it preaches absolute rights and wrongs. Teenagers are almost constantly bombarded with sexual propaganda and peer pressure, and all the church has to offer is a strict "NO." It isn't fair that Cat­holic dogma should actually encourage abortion, as in the Boston survey, but it seems as though that's what's happening. And that's sick. 



----------.,I 
I 
I 
I 

• 

The Observer 
Social events dominate Saint Mary's schedule 
By CONNIE. COONEY 
NewsStuff · 
The new semester brings with it 
new activities sponsored by the dif­
fcrt·nt classes at Saint Mary's. 
Senior Class President Teri Hill said her class has scheduled many activities for the remainder of the year. "We have happy hours planned, which arc co-sponsored by Notre Dame. Each happy hour will be held at different locations every week. In this way, everyone in­volved will be able to meet new people," Miss Hill said. 
Fdl. 14 is the date of the senior class and Augusta Hall Formal, to be held at Erskine's Country club. A "Uahama's Suitcase" party is scheduled for Feb. 25, followed by a rctn:at later in the month. The retreat is co-sponsored by the Campus Ministry departments of both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. March comes in with the annual Senior Formal, being held in Chkago on the 27 and 28th. 
April not only yields spring showers, hut the annual Senior Variety Show and the National Alumnus/Senior Class Mass and brunch on April 4. 
May 6-1 'i has been designated as "Senior Week" with picnics, horse­hack riding.' a barbecue outing in Michigan and a Dunes Trip. The long-awaited Commencement tops of the week and will be held on May 
16. 
Thl· junior class is sponsoringa ski trip to Hoyne Mountain in Michigan, which is co-sponsored with the junior class at Notre Dame. "We have planned a roller skating party, and a spring Mass at the Grotto," said Mary Joan O'Keefe, junior class president. Also planned in the month of April is the Junior Class Formal. 
Sophomore Class President Erin 
flood reported that her class is co­
sponsoring a Tubing Party along 
with the Sophomore Class at Notre 
Dame. The party will be held at Ben­
dix Wooils on on Feb. 6. The annual 
Geis 
receives prize 
By KERRY O'ROURKE 
Neu•sStuff 
Kathleen Gels has received the Ernst-Whlnncy award, an annual honor bestowed upon the best all­around senior accounting student at Saint Mary's. 
The S'iOO cash award, Is sponsored by the: South Bend office of the: Ernst-Whinney accounting firm. 
Ernst-Whinney Is a national accounting firm which presents the award each year at selected schools across the nation. Each school, however, selects Its winner. A com­mittee composed of SMC faculty members In the accounting depart­ment and jack Campbell, manager of 
~:s;~:h~:~:i~uth Bend office, 
According to Claude Renshaw, Chairman of the Business Depart­
ment at SMC, the a~ard Is given to I the Observer this semester a work 
the student "most likely to succeed 
in public accounting."
Miss Gels received the award at a 
special dinner held at SMC in 
November. In attendance were all 
senloraccountlngstudents,selected 
faculty members and people from the Ernst-Whlnney South Bend 
office. The Ernst-Whlnney a~ard h~
been presented at both Samt Marys and Notre Dame for th~ past six 
years. 

Sophomore Parents Weekend will be held Feb. 27 through March l. 

"We are also sponsoring three or four speakers -members of the faculty and admimistration -who will be speaking on 'lifferent topics. One ~ic will be discussed every three weeks or so," said Miss Flood. 
The sophomores arc also planning a retreat to he held sometime in late March. 
According to Kathleen "Murph" Murphy, president of the freshman class, many semi-formals are planned for later on in the semester. "We had a good turnout at our Semi-during the annual Change ofCommand Ceremony last Thursday during which Midshipman (2nd formal last weekend. -clfllS)}amesMurphy assumed command ofthe NROTC battalion. (Pbnto by Scott Thomas) 

Committee organizing "best An Tostal yet" 
Mitch Feikes, the 1981 An Tostal chairman, announced the executive staff for this year's Spring Festival. The 18 member committee runs some of the major events and helps organize the smaller ones. 
Feikes said, "Every member can be characterized as having extensive activities either with An Tostal or in the Notre Dame community. These Individuals have the ability to make this the best An Tostal yet." 
Several seniorsarc returning from 
last year. Mark Razzano is moving 
from comptroller to vice-chairman. 
Tom Phillis, who functioned as 
Thursday chairman, will be assistant 
chairman. Susie Eckelkamp and 
Donna Shannon will be co-chairmen 
for Thursday, while Kathy Maher 
will fill that position for Saturday. 
Tim Coughlin Is returning again to 
run night events. Bob Moore, who 
was an assistant to last year's person­nel directoJ, will head that depart­ment this year. Bill Hogan will organize mobilization while publicity will be handled by Veronica Crosson. 
juniors working un An Tostal in-

Gain voluble iournalistic experience as an Observer reporter. 
call Tom or lynne at 1715 
·~ v· 

I , RfVER CITY RECORDS 1
--------------------------~ 
I . I
I Northern Indiana's Largest Selection of·Aibums & Tapes. I 1 Why pay more any place else? I 
I $ any regular record or tape with ad. II 1.00 OFF! Limit 1 per person 1 I Expires Feb. 15 1981 1
I 50970 US 31 North •Open till 10 every night I 1amiles North of Campus • ND/SMC checks cashed 1 
• next to Al's Supermarket up to $20 over 1 
l 
purchase amount 
277-4242 -•Record Crates available 
1 


--------------------------· 
--•A!!IR!IOR For anyone interested in writing St. 
1

M -N d F t t • f
ary S eWS Qn eQ Ure S OrleS Or 
1 

shop wiII be held onWednesday Jan. 28 from 7:30 . to 8:30pm and Thurs· day Jan 29 from 7:00 to 8:00 pm
1 • 

in theSMC Observer office. Attend e"ather n"aght ··n Regina South base 
On ment. For further info' call Mary at 41 5754 _____ 
elude Nancy Delamater as ..,.P ..KII.-'.Hf'"" 
the Zoo, Kevin Crawneen running Friday, and Tom Drouillard, Irish Wake. junior Rob Simari calls run­ning bookstore basketball "the toug­hest job I've ever loved." Marylou Nusser will be the Secretary and accounting major Eric Bononl Is comptroller. Beth Lochtefeld will handle the job of publishing the An Tostal booklet. 
Two sophomores hold Important positions; Carrie Koplin has the job of handling special events and Jeannie McCarthy will be in charge of hall chairmen as she assumes the position of Head Lion Tamer. 
"Even though we have filled the executive staff positions," Feikc~ 
emphasized that, "we need many 
more worke·rs in important posi­tions to make An Tostal '81 a success. The purpose ofAn Tostal Is to have fun, whether it be working on the executive staff, on the com­mittee, or participating in the events." 
The first An Tostal meeting wlll be held on Sunday, March 1, at 7p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. 
TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 For lnlorll'ation About Other Centers In More Than B5 Ma)or US Ctltes & Abroad Outside NY State CALL TOLL FREE: 800-223-1782
I ]

1----------------------------•­
D 
• 

DORM LIFE CRAMPING YOUR ST·YLE? 

NOTRE DAME 


AVE. APTS 
2bedrooms completely furnished complete kitchen off-street parking up to 4 student~ $340-$360/month 

call234-664 7 
The Observer Tuesday,January 27, 1981 -page 4 

Steve Delaney, the afternoon voice ofU-93, in action. (Photo by Tim McKeogh) 
I'MBEHIND THEIRISH 
·The cheerleaders have BOOSTER POMPOMS and I'MBEHIND THEIRISH 
(rumperstickers& cloth patches) 
' 

forsale. You can contact the Student Activitie 
office, 1st Floor LaFortune (7308) ort.fny Cheerleader 


CAREERS 
IN 

ENGINEERING WITH 

NICOR 
The Bas•c Er>e•Q• Company 
If you are bright and have a strong committment to achievement and a desire to be individually'' 
recognized lor accomplishment, then NICOR is 
looking lor you. Right now, opportunities are especially good lor aspiring Engineering 
Professionals within many areas of NICOR and 
its subsidiary -Northern Illinois Gas. 
Begin as a Design and Aquifer Engineer and lind new opportunities in Operations Energy and gain supervisory experience. Openings continue to emerge in areas such as Transmission, Underground Storage In our Supplemental Nature Gas Plant in route of upper management. 
You are invited to meet with our representative on campus during the month of February. Don't forget to sign up now In the Placement Office. 
NICOR 

The Basic Energy Company 
P.O. Box 190 
Aurora, Illinois 60507 
Equal Oppurtunity Employer 
'Not bitter' 

Marines'survivorsrejoice 
ByJANE SEE WHITE 
AssociatedPress Writer 

Yes, it renewed their sorrow to 
the arms oftheir loved ones, but the 
families of eight men who died last 
April in a failed rescue mission are 
not bitter. 

"It would almost be sacrilegious 
to be bitter," said Geotge Holmes, of 
Pine Bluff, Ark., whose 22-year-old 
son, Marine Cpl. George Holmes, Jr., 
died in the Central Iran salt desert. 
"I feel a real sense ofpride that his 
death and the loss of the others in 
some way brought back the 
hostages, even if the rescue didn't 
succeed," Holmes added yesterday. 
Diane johnson, 31-year-old widow of Marine Staff Sgt. Dewey Johnson, described her thoughts when she visited her husband's grave in Dublin, Ga., last Friday: 
"l just stood there, quiet like, in 
the cold, and I said to myself, 'Well, 
Dewey, you can finally rest in peace. 
They're coming home on Sunday and you did your job."' 
As joyful Americans flung their yellow ribbons to the winds exult­ing in the former hostages' return, 
watch 52 Americans fly at last into 

thousands  paused  to  remember  
eight who died.  
President  Reagan,  signing  a  

resolution designating Thursday as a day ofthanksgiving for the hostages' return, commented yesterday that 

the resolution "recognizes the devo­tion and bravery of ptofessional sol­diers, the memories of those eight men in the long line who have given everything to preserve everything. 
"It reminds us th;~.t greater glory has no man than he lays down his life for another," he said. 
Within hours of her husband's 
release last week, Anita Schaefer commented that she wanted him to meet, as she has, the women who were widowed when their husbands tried to rescue him. 
The caravan that bore the former hostages and their families to a West Point retreat passed· eight flagpoles with colors flying at half staff. 
In Roanoke, Va., the father of Marine Sgt. John D. Harvey, 21, said the family was "just so happy" for the former hostages and their families. "It's just wonderful having them back in this country." 
Chris Mcintosh of Valdosta, Ga., whose 34-year-old son, Air Force Capt. Lyn Mcintosh, 'died in the mis­sion, said: "We are just as happy as we can be for those people and their families. We are glad with the rest of the world that their ordeal is over." 
At the home of Air Force Capt. Richard Bakke, a woman who answered a telephone query about the hostages' return said: "The fami­ly is just too emotionally drained to talk about ittoday." 


Iranians defend settlements 
(AP)-Iran's prime minister yes­terday defended the U.S.-Iran hostage settlement against criticism by President Abolhassan Bani-Sadr. Another leader, denying reports the hostages had been mistreated, sid the militants who imprisoned them 
for 14 I/2 months were incapable of 
hurting anyone. 

Prime Minister Mohmll)ad Ali 
Rajai told the Majlis, or parliament, 
that Iran's problems result from the 
upheaval of revolution, and were 
not caused by allowing the U.S. Em­
bassy staff to be held hostage for 
more than a year, as Bani-Sadr has 
charged. 

The president, a longtime critic of 
the clergy-dominated government, 
has been particularly harsh in the 
last few days, apparently in an at­
tempt to create a climate in which to 
expand his own influence. 

Bani-Sadr has claimed Iran could 
have reached a much more 
favorable agreement earlier, accord­
ing to a Yugoslav news agency 
II 

report from Tehran, quoting an in­terview inMizam newspaper. 
Reacting to hostages' reports they were mistreated, Speaker of Parlia­ment Hashemi Rafsanjani told his weekly news conference he is cer­tain no torture took place. 
The complex financial settlement that freed the 52 Americans taken captive by Iranian militants-Nov. 4, 1979, was mediated by an Algerian delegation. The ex-hostages returned to the United Stateson Sun­day after four and a half days of "decompression" at a U.S.' military 
hospital in Wiesbaden, West Ger­
many. 

• • .Hostages 
continuedfrom page 1 

the nation my ~om's all right." His mother, Anna, 69, had been taken to a coronary unit after talking to her son last week by telephone. 
-Hostage Clair Barnes, 35, of Falls Church, Va.: ''I'm depressed sometimes. l did expect to get out of captivity sometime or other, sooner or later, but I didn't know how long it would be. l feel great emotion to be home. It is just great." Barnes's" mother told a Washington television station that she suffered nervous at­tack trom the emotion ofthe hostage release. 
-Hostage Joseph Hall, 31, from Elyria, Ohio, an army warrant of­.ficer: "I have no great animosity for the Iranians. They're their own worst enemy.l was always very op­timistic that someday I would probably get to go home. But the Iranians have to stay there the rest of their lives. And that's the greatest punishment possible." 



NOW I I 
COMPETE FOR 3 or 2 YEAR 
SCHOLARSHIPS 

ARMY ROTC.-·_.._ 
The Observer Tuesday, January 27, 1981 pageS 
,. 

Sentenced to die 
Placement Bureau 
p 
II.
8 
eMil
8141> 
Bill> 
~\!!:ill.! 

1. Pa•ce Cotpfi/VIST~ :! • 8MO in •ll dililc:fpUn... 'J, Puce Corp•/VU1A Valunu~u•. 4. U5.\ •1\d t.WoU'••~~•·
Court convicts Mao's lVidow-• 
So. h~nt~. ~ .... Vtea. 
PEKING (AP) -China's Com­munist Party yesterday praised the conviction and sentences of Chair­man Mao Tse-tung's widow and her nine co-defendants but warned that their followers must aiso be 
suppressed. 
"Pouring out the waters of the Yangtze River could not wash away their crimes," said the Communist Party newspaper, thePeople's Dally. "Without punishing them according to law, there is no way to uphold justice and assuage the people's in­dignation." 
Kupke won't exploit hostage kin 
JEFFERSONVILLE, Ind. (AP) ­This is the story ofa third cousin to a new national hero. 
Not that Art Kupkc and Fred Kupke ever tcamt·d up for a sack race at a family union. 
Actually, they don't even ex­change Christmas cards. 
Art Kupkc t·an 't offer one word of insight about cousin Rick, the Fran­cesville man freed from Iran with 51 other American hostages. 
But then again, Art Kupkc never claimed he could. These Kupkes arc strangers. 
Art Kupkc, you sec, abhors name 
droppers. Anybody who would be 
impressed by knowing the third 
cousin of a former hostage is not 
somebody Art Kupkc wants to 
Impress. 
"I've seen it too much, instant 
friends and all," Kupke, 47, ofJeffer­
sonville, said recently. "It's phony, 
It's fake. 
"It's just an accident of birth. 
Then•'s no reason to be proud of it 
for any reason." 
The only people who even knew the rt·motc connection were those ft•w frlt-nds who associated the last names and asked. A reporter found out only because Kupke's 7-year-old stepsotold his st·cond grade teacher who told her principal who is related to tht· reporter. 
"It's just an accident of birth..." 
An Kupkt· didn't even know there was a Rick Kupke, much less that ht· was kin, until after Rick had btTn captured by Iranian militants Nov. 4, 1979. 
"Somebody brought it to my at­tention; they had read it in the paper," Art K.upke said. And after seeing where Rick wa-; from, "I knew we were somckind of relation." 
Art and Rick's grandfathcrs were first cousins, if you want specifics. "My father died just before I was 
I 0,  so  I  nt•ver  got  that  well  ac­ 
quainted with the Kupkcs."  
Even  when  Art  Kupkc  and  his  

family lived in Kewanna, close enough to Francesville for them to be listed In the same phone book, their paths didn't cross. 
But Art almost Introduced himself W Fred's folks shortly after the ;1ostages were taken. 
"A couple oftimes I thought about giving them a call. But there really wasn't anything to say. 
"And then the other night, when I saw him getting off the plane, I had an inclination to call his parents. But I figured they were getting lots of 
calls. 
"Maybe after he's been home a week or two, I might give him a call. It might be strained, to have Art 
Kupke call. "That's his dad's name, too." 
The most publicized trial in China's history ended Sunday with the sentencing of Mao's 67-year-old widow, Jiang Qing, and former Vice Premier Zhang Chunqiao to death sentences that were suspended for two years and the other eight defen­dants to prison terms ranging from 16 years to life. There was no right of appeal from the verdicts or the sentences. 
The People's Daily said remnants of the factions responsible for the 1966-76 Cultural Revolution "still have not been dealt with as they should be, and the poison...still has not been thoroughly eliminated." 
One document introduced during the trial listed 60 other persons who were implicated, and trials of these lesser figures and others are ex­pected to start soon. 
Jiang Qing and Zhang were the only two defendants who did not plead guilty, and that apparently was why they got the death sentences. But Deng Xiaoping, the leader ofthe new regime, and others reportedly argued against executing them. The court said if they "repented" during their next two years ofconfinement, their sentences would be commuted to life imprisonment. 
J lang Qingwas as defiant as ever at the final trial session Sunday. In a replay of her performance at pre­vious sessions, she shouted when she heard the word "death" in her sentence: "Down with the revisionists led by Deng Xiaoping! Making revolution is no crime, it is right to rebel!" 
A television broadcast showed her struggling with two women bailiffs who snapped handcuffs on her and marched her out of the courtroom as 800 invited spectators applauded. 
Jiang Qing, the other three radical leaders of the party who with her were dubbed the "Gang ofFour" and Mao's former secretary, Chen Boda, were convicted of persecuting 700,000 people and c~using the deaths of 34,000 during the Cultural Revolution and plotting to take over the government after Mao's death. 
The other five defendants, ,all fo.r: mer generals, were convicted of plotting with former Defense Minis­ter Lin Piao to assassinate Mao and talie over the government. 
I  
8 b  
' U~t 2s  B BHll • B  

n 
• 
a 
B 
B 
8 
ft 
a 

ANJICilN~A-ERlCKSON INCr:· wlr~ ~nd C6bl•. 2. A tn f.l;:, HF., 117\TO, Ch•tn, ll'h:Y•· 
3. llroduc:t, 'Prgeeat, Plaint and Projuf !ncr. ~. 
~~~::r::P:~;d1~::~~:~:-c; ~--;!:~:'.'·It~~ •·~t.:~tiou~ 
ASSOCIATtS !j9!!!!£RC!AI. COIU' 
1. C:cmm~tc:ilill l.tmdin¥• 2, All B&A. 3, HaUB*II\601' Tl'dtJ.-n-... JJ,'(,!h'ICh Opufttt~n•. 1., llornni':h lo~,u Joo.o thr~?ut,h\lu~ tont1n•nt~1 U.fl. R"l01"'' '4,1n o.e¥-u•ry. 
5. Ch.i•enehlr> not: uqu t t~·~ 
f.!)J!!'J.I!!l. OLASS WQR!tS 
]. t;t~t•ll Manufacturer. "'' B in Acc.t, flin, Xkt. 
3. Contl'Olhr. J.MornAl Aj,j.~litQr, vertoul!ll 1\Mncbt 11tht mnrhting posit!OM. 4, Cvrntna. N'Y ftnd v"'d('IUIEI :phltJ. tot.v.t1oM. S. Pi.lrm. 1\6'•· ·Vha. 
M 

.¥7~t~;.CA!~·a~~u~,. t.tb. Ar~ja ..,tt.h dttJtd tft to ... turuBt: in bi"Ua Mane,p,;t:llll!:llt. 3, Sal•11 HMinaf.j.efllent "trat~e;u. 4. !l~\lthl(lrn Ctal Hurnl;·~o 'J. h~. htL Via>'l. 
t;~:~~~l:~~!i:~p~v~~~~~'~nk. 2. rin ~<:on, Acct, 
Fl.n. 3. UurL• M:x:ttfilc.-ru Prukram, trwdH ScH'Vl('"'"' 
Ana.lyu, OJ)orotlon• Mnn..tjoll;'m~·nt Pt'aF~;rrn11. 4, Chtc.•~o, 
XL. 5. Plh•m:. R..,$, 'ViM. 
BM BH 
HE~C\IJ.gs l~.f­

1. Chemical lntttrmttd l.Ht•l'l:. 2, BM hl <;:hnn1, thf., Mt. 
3. ~~o. 'tnch Salt!s, l)r"c;,ru anif Pro.1vct t::n~r, t., Nat!on1.1ld~. 5. rttr'~'· Rtt.~>. V.J.H.~. 
)di.ZARU~ 

L t{cotail. ·2. fl lll J..Jh, Ut.tJ., l, ifO\"f! M"o•tt•tnc'lnt 
TrJJ,nlli'll. 4. lndin.11apol1s, lN. 5. Pt>rm. R~t·1. Vhfl. 
..O ..M"
BMO RMD 

~~;~:M C~pA/Vl!)'tJ\. 2. BMO in all dl!!!c.tpllnu.
,. 

3. Pl~llt(l Corps/VISTA v,lhuH"Ms. "· USA. atut CIIIU.. th\11.$, '. Pllrtl\. ftlla. Vha. 
·t~~tfltf~~;c~.~~~:~!!. 1.. 8 J.n !.lb. Art~& 11nd ftli"· Ad. '). ~mployeo.• U.vn•fU Rt~l\ ~nd l,\;1ud ltep. I. NatlonwtJu. ~. Cit: h:enr,1hip t'f'll]\lirttd, 
• 8 

BENDIX .9.0.!!!'..:.....-!.!..kCAAFT BIIAKE & SfltUT ~!.J!.l.~l9.~ 
t~Ospactt. 4. 8 1.t1 ~. Het, Comr Set. '.t. Entr, S)lfU>('JII)8 Analyat. l!. Suuth Jh•nd, lN. S. P«rm. Rea. Vha. 
atNDlX CO~. ENERGY CONTROLS DIVISION
1!H 

t. Mteuft ttnR,fnt Control Svst.t'llla. 2. BM tn MF., F.!. 
GENERAL NAMIC:S 
\ ~' > ",. 

At General Dynamics, our people are vital to our success. We see each 
individual as an asset. And we want 
to see that asset grow. 

That's why we need people who desire to push beyond their own horizons ... people who are willing to demonstrate their initiative ... people who are limited only by the boundaries of their imagination. 
General Dynamics is the nation's number one defense contractor and a leader in commercial programs as well. We're also a leader when it comes to benefits, salaries, oppor­tunities for advancement, job diversity and mobility, attractive locales, mod­ern manufacturing equipment and facilities, and expanded technological bases. 
Our representatives will visit your campus this spring. Be sure to pick up one of our brochures at your Placement Office and schedule an interview appointment. 
And, plan to attend our Corporate presentation the evening before our on-campus interviews. Details at your Placement Office. 
Or, if you prefer, send your resume to: 
BILL COLEMAN, Corporate College Relations Administrator GENERAL DYNAMICS Pierre Laclede Center, CN-40 St. Louis, MO 63105 An Equal Opportunity Employer 
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
FEBRUARY 5 & 6 
TheObserver Tuesday, january 27, 1981 -page 6 

Springsteen displays his visual exuberance during last night's concert. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
Mardi Gras 'News' will entertain, aid charity 
ByTIM PETTERS Training sessions will be held in News Staff each dormuocy and at the Stepan Center. 
Construction ofbooths will begin In addition to operating booths, this Saturday in the Stepan Center the Mardi Gras raises . money foe the last Mardi Gras permitting through the sale of raffle tickets. gambling. Currently. ticket sales ace higher Residence halls and campus or· than last year at this time, but ace ganizations construct the booths in below the desired a .. 10unt. The order to raise money foe charity, grand prizt: for the 1981 Mardi Gras while also competing for various is a new Oldsmobile Cutlass that will awards. All booths must be designed be displayed at the remaining home around this year's theme of "In the basketball games. The '81 Mardi News." Gras will offer a wide variety of en­The Mardi Gras Committee re­tertainment. Students will perform 
quires any person who wishes to be musical and comedy acts throug· a card dealer to attend training ses­bout the week. WSND will broadcast sions. Upon completion ofthese ses­live from Stepan Center, sponsor sions the participant will receive dance contests, and giveaway al· 
certification from the committee. bums and T-shirts. 

~ NOTICE ~ 
Is there any beer brewed by Leprechauns? Ifthere is its probably called 
''FIGHTINGIRISH" 

Any student interested in the position of 
Observer Editor-In-Chief For 1981-1982 
Contact Paul at 7471 
applications.due Jan. 27 

--FirstAnnual-­
OFF-CAMPUS FORMAL 
Century Center Great Hall January 31, 1981 9pm-1am---­Price: $14.00/couple Band: Crystal Tickets can be purchased .-..-~iilliiiil--..--~-. 
at tbefollowing locations ... 
Campus View: Sberri McGrmil(le 
54585/risb IJay Apt. 103 277-8280 

St. Mary's Off-Campus Loun!(e Ilam-Ipm LaFortune Student Center /lam-Ipm Notre Dame Apts. Carole McColle•ter Apt.4B 
OPEN BAR 9:30­10:30pm 


Spmuored Bv .'VD-SMC Off-Campus Commission.(. 
Gambling threatened 
Petitions circulate to save bingo 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) -Peti· tions asking leaders of the Fort Wayne-South Bend Catholic Diocese to permit the continuation ofbingo, fun fairs and raffi.es as fund· raising activities began circulating yesterday. 
However, Bishop William A. McManus says the petitions will not alter his stand against gambling. Cur­rent state law prohibits gambling, including bingo, and McManus said the problem lies with the state, not his office. 
"They have the wrong man, the wrong address," says Bishop McManus. "I didn't stop bingo; In· diana stopped bingo. They should address it (the petitions) to In· dianapolis." 
The petitions say bingo is not im­
moral and that unless such activities 
continue, parochial schools and 
church-funded projects will be 
threatened. 
Meanwhile, Prosecutor Michael 
Barnes ofSt. Joseph County says that 
although bingo is a technical viola· 
tion ofthe law, he will not prosecute 
as long as the funds ace for non-profit 
charitable groups. 
He said bingo games ace not limited only to the Catholic Church, but ace run by other non-profit charitable groups as well. 
"We're all in a bind," said McManus. "I'm in a bind with the priests. We ace bound by an archaic, out-moded and foolish state law. However, as long as we have a law, the church...must obey the law. Even if the money raised goes for a good cause, that is no justification foe breaking the law." 
The pro-bingo group, originally about 16 persons, formed about two weeks ago in South Bend. The peti· tion drive came after McManus told some priests that the activities are to be discontinued by Ash Wednesday, March 4, according to Ed Stepien of South Bend, a member ofthe group circulating the petitions. 
McManus said he had not issued a 
directive concerning the fund 
raising, but had discussed the Ash 
Wednesday time fame with a couple 
ofthe priests. 
Stepien said parishioners began 
handing out petitions last week and 
will continue to do so for at least two 
more weeks. 
lr=====================· Keenan Revue ::::•:::::::::::::::::1 

Jan. 30 and 31 8:00 O'Laughlin Hall 
t 4 to 6 pm O'laughlin and Washington 
I t H a II Ticket offices :=:=:=:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::;::::::::::::::J~ 
SCUBA LESSONS Spring Semester 
Come to Room 2D LaFortune Center 
7:00PM-Wed., Jan. 28 Bring $30 Deposit 
Find out about our Bahamas Trip for Spring Break! 

Call 272-8607 or 272-9780 
LAST CHANCE 
Aquapro Scuba Center 
The.bishop said he was told ofthe petitions both in a telephone con­versation and a visit from Stepien. 
Stepien said copies ofthe petition had been sent to presidents ofparish councils in each of the Catholic parishes in the diocese. He said that in some instances parish priests were refusing to allow the petitions to be circulated on church premises. 
• • .Israel 
continuedfrom page 1 

the resolution. The action was at· tacked by the UN Security Council and by the Vatican, which reported· ly favors an international status for the city. 
Tonight at 8 p.m., prior to tomor­c-ow's opening session, Zvi Brosh, special advisor toJerusalem's mayor and a committee member, will ex­plore the complexities of the Jerusalem issue. in a lecture to be given in room 11 7 of Haggar Hall. 
Most of the committees discus­sions ace closed to the general public. However, the group has scheduled a news conference at 
1:30 p.m. Thursday in the Center for Continuing Education to relate the results ofthe conference. 
Richard . .Conklin stated that right now, any possible results of the Jerusalem Committee discussions are "an open question." 
• • .Abscaffl 
continuedfrom page 1 
All three were convicted of con­spiracy, which carries a maximum term offive years. And each was con· victed of a separate count of travel· ing across state lines to further an illegal activity, a crime punishable by up to five years imprisonment. 
The trial began on Dec. 4 and took nearly seven weeks to complete, including a recess over the Christmas-New Year's holiday. 
Lawyers for the defendants have said they would appeal on grounds ofaleged government misconduct. 
Seven other Abscam defendants are seeking to have their convictions overturned by a federal court in New York on similar grounds. That hearing has been recessed until next week. 
The remammg member of Congress indicted in the Abscam in· vestigation is Sen. Harrison A. Wil· liamsJr., D-N.J. His trial is scheduled to begin March 30. 
... 
.
Tuesday, january 27, 1981 -page 7









Editorials 
P.O.BoxQ 
budget allocation to cheerleaders funds, or valued assistance, in or­of this help. 
McDonnell Gold game in May. This is why we
-incorrect use of the term der, are the Athletic Department, Like everything else in life, no feel we deserve Monogram jack­"bump" to describe the un­Student Activities, souvenir sales situation is perfect. Cheerleading
responds on 
availability of seats on a plane (revenue minus expenses). ets. 
is not all glamour-it takes hard Being a Student Activity group,
cheerleaders 
-misquoting and quoting out Cheerleaders are part of Stu­work, time, talent, etc. 
Our we have to obey University rulesof context co-captain dent Activities, but arc obviously cheerleaders, though, are happy and codes, but we also please the-incorrect information regard­most noticeable at athletic and dedicated (two of them even Athletic Department by par­ing all money which goes into events. They make commitments 

drove to Arizona-names with­
ticipating in a proper manner at
Dear Editor: 
cheerleading. for our teams, our students, our held). But please, don't crucify games. Our job is to travel to asI do not wish to engage the stu­The overall impression of the alumni, our loyal fans. They ap­good Notre Dame people for as­many games as possible and thisdent press in a running battle headlines and content lead one to pear for various functions. They king questions which are is paid for, along with all our otherregarding cheerleaders, but at this believe that a mm1 protest­
are all volunteers; none receives reasonable. time I feel obligated to clear up rebellion has taken place. any financial aid or scholarship I) Would the cheerleaders fare expenditures, through our own budget. The Athletic Department
several items. On Nov. 6, Jan. 20, 3) The letter on Nov. 6 con­assistance for doing this. They do better under the Athletic Depart­is not obligated to save room forand Jan. 22 a letter, a story, and a tained the following errors: receive a lot of publicity and ment? Or should they remain a us on flights, hut in recent yearssports column, respectively, ap­-incorrect that but also
statement popularity. they give Student Activity? 
have found extra room to accom­
peared in The Observer. All cheerleaders are forced to pay for many. many hours of their lives. 
2) Is the present monogram us a discounted
presented varying degrees of transportation costs, make their Cheerleaders are not expected modate at rate. 
policy in line with what happens room couldn't be
This year this
misinformation, which if per­own hotel reservations, and that to pay for travel expenses. In fact, at other schools? (Paul Broughton arranged for.petuated will only cause more the University does not help out their flights, rented vehicles, gas. did not quit over this issue. He of our with
Some problemsproblems. in any way. tolls, rooms, uniforms, and a received a monogram last year traveling and budget expenses,The most serious error ap­4) And now, the column of Jan. modest meal allowance are under the two-year policy.) 
monograms, tutors, etc., could bepeared in the Jan. 22 issue. When 22: provided on trips from the various 3) How much time can cheer­alleviated if the cheerleadersI expressed my dissatisfaction -incorrect assumption, based sources of the budget. 
leaders put into raising funds, were part of the Athletic Depart­with some of the things I had read on Jan. 20 article, that cheer­We try our best to get the cheer­cheering, practicing, and study­ment, but that is a different sub­on Nov. 6 and Jan. 20, somehow I leaders are not happy 
leaders to all away football ing? 
as ject. The Athletic Department did
was presented calling former -the slighting of a good person games, but money or unforeseen 4) How far is too far to drive for pay, without recompense, forcheerleader co-captain Paul based on a story written by anot­circumstances sometimes official representatives of the rooms and even a flight to oneBroughton a liar. I objected to the her person that failed ,to distin­prevent it. In good faith, Mr. University, or what is a game. Mr. 0' Brien tried his best"stuff in the paper," not Paul guish clearly between reasons O'Brien (with Coach Devine's reasonable and safe distance and to help us, but even some repor­Broughton. I have much respect (given in paragraph I) and certain OK) agreed to have tlie1 cheer­reasonable time allotment for 
ters, who are regulars on flighhtsfor Paul, a student who devoted problematic issues connected leaders fly to all distant away volunteers to spend in travel to 
with the team, had to find theirtwo-and-a-half years to the with cheerleading. 
games with the team, provided away games? 
own way to the games due to lacksquad. He worked very hard, Let me now attempt to provide seats were available. Because of I would like to assure all offlight seating. Mr. 0' Brien, Dr.
spending countless hours some factual information. · equipment changes by United readers that no serious problems McDonnell, Fr. Van Wolvlearrepresenting our University. He Cheerleading falls under the Airlines, which reduced the size exist within the cheerleading and I afi get along. The problemis a line young man with whom I Student Activities Office at Notre of the airplane, the number of pas­ranks. They are not calling the arises from time put in toenjoyed working. Dame. Many universities follow sengers had to be reduced. That Athletic Department officials cheerleading. We have to make it,
Now, what are the things to this same system, while others left room only for the team and of­mean ogres. Nobody left the pretty much our own.
on Espe­which I referred? Let me list place cheerleading under Ath­ficial party. 

squad because of the problems or cially, with the number andthem. 
letics. The designations are We had agreed to pay for each questions enumerated. The spacings between the distant
I) I sent notification on my worked out within each institu­trip at a very low price. Believe changes on the squad occurred away games.office stationery to The Observer tion. 
me, this was a real bargain with because academic and personal Yes, Craig, I do realize that Ms.
on Jan. 16 announcing the The cheerleading budget con­the cost of airfare and rooms. All are impor­
family matters more Dregalla's article, and yours too,
cheerleading changes. No sists of a $6,500 allocation from flights except the Souther·IJ tant than cheerleading. Graduat­may make people regret what wasreasons were stated. This was my office, a $840 contribution California flight were effected. ing with pride, rather than said. You must also realize thatdone purposely to protect the from Saint Mary's (varies yearly Having allocated $6,000 for cheering, is the first order of busi­everything looks a little
privacy of the students involved. depending upon how many cheer­travel, we then faced commercial ness. "diffe;~nt" on the other side of
Nonetheless, a story appeared on leaders are from SMC), money air fares totaling nearly $15,000. 
the felice. We (the cheerleaders)Jan. 20 which delved into the raised by cheerleaders in Certainly, we did not have the 
James McDonnell 

try to please everyone possible,
many reasons "for which live conducting clinics and selling money, nor did we expect Ath­
Director of Student Activities 
but you know how the sayingcheerleaders quit." Never did pompoms, stickers and patches, letics to produce it. So, five flew goes, '~You can't please all of theThe Observer approach my office and assistance from the Athletic to Arizona, all flew to Alabama, people aJI of the time, only somefor clarification. I think journalis­Department in providing seats on and all drove to Navy and Georgia More on of the people some of the time."
tic courtesy and professionalism planes when there is enough Tech. The cheerleaders sold more To summarize the situation, we
demands approaching the source room, paying for hotel expenses items this year than ever before to cheerleaders 
know we have received some helpof the news item. at some games, and paying for the help meet these high costs. They in the past, and we apprecite it,2) The article on Jan. 20 con-entire costs of bowl trips and worked very hard to get to the Dear Editor: but we feel we deserve the sametained the following errors: tournament games. 
games. And, Mr. O'Brien helped Along with Dr. McDonnell's treatment as the players on the
-incorrect headline The expenses the he care
largest of where could, taking of comments, I would like to add a teams we cheer for (i.e. tutors,-incorrect caption cheerleaders are, in order, travel, rooms in Atlanta, Birmingham, few of my own. Cheerleading is a monograms, and any other help
-incorrect listing of numerical supplies for selling, uniforms, and and Los Angeles, and taking care time-consumingjob. We return to possible).order of finishes miscellaneous (orientation meals, of the flights to Southern Califor­
school one week early to work out -incorrect spelling of a name ads, phone calls, cost of tryouts, nia. All cheerleaders, including and continue to practice and 
Paul J. Broughton

-incorrect .figure on 'my banquet). The largest sources of Paul Broughton, are appreciative cheer for games until the Blue-
Controversial
Doonesbury by Garry Trudeau 
play? 

Dear Sirs: 
Is the billing of A Cou11try Wife as "A Baudy, Colorful, Out­rageous COMEDY" in the January 16 number of The Ob­server a conspira~.:y planned by the ND/SMC Theatre and l·arried out by The Observer to prevent the Administration from learning that Wycherley's play is in fact "A Bawdy, etc... ," and therefore immoral and unaccepllthle for viewing by student audiences'! 
Si11cere/y, Richard Houghton 


Editorial Board and Department Managers

==Ihe__QbseaeJ;== 
Edltor-ln-Cbtef ..................................... Paul MuUaney Sports Edltor...........................................Beth Huffman Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46~56 Managing Edltor .......................................... Mark Rust FealuresEdttor.......................................MoUy Woulk The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Edltorulls Edltor..............................Michael Onufrak Pboto Editor ...............................................John Macor 
University of Notre Dame du La_c and_ Saint ~ary'~ C<?llese. It does not ~ecessanly Senior Copy Editor .....................Mary Fran Callahan reflect the policies of the admmtstrauon _of enhe~ tn~tltuuon. The news IS reported Executive News Editor.........................Tom Jackman Business Manager ..................................Greg Hedgea as accurately and as objectively as poss1ble_. Edno_n~ls represent the optnwn _of a News Edltor...............................................Pam Degnan Controller ....................................................... Jim Rudd majority of the Editorial Board. _Com~entanes, op1mons, and letters are the v1ews News Editor ...............................................Lynne Daley Advertising Vartager...................................Mark EUla of their authors. Column space 1s ava1lable to all members of the c~mmumty. and SMC Executive Editor..........................Margie Brassll Clrrulatlott Manager............................Beth Hackett the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, IS encouraged. SMC News Edltor......................................Mary Leavitt Production Vanager...........................)ohn McGrath 
=The.=~=·=========~='================= 


~c:»cJlC3L~==========================T=u=es=d=ay=,=Jw==uruy===2=7,=1=9=8=11==p=a=ge==8 
Campus 
•3:30 
p.m. -aero and mec­hanical engineering · semi­nar,"hearing in man and beast," dr. charles r. steele, stanford u., 303 cushing hall. 

•4:30 
p.m. -seminar, biology dept., "occurrence and possible significance of lipid -soluble vitamins in freshwater ecosys­tems," dr. james litton, jr., st. mary's college, nd, galvin auditorium. 

•4:00 
p.m. -finance forum, john hines, president, continen­tal venture corp., room 122 hayes-healy. 

•6:30 
p.m. -meeting, alpha phi omega, little theatre, Iafortune. 

•7:00 
p.m. __.. finance forum, donald kelly, president of es­mark, room 122 hayes-healy. 

•7:00 
p.m. -class, natural family planning for engaged and married couples, sponsored by campus ministry, 11 7 O'shag. 

•7:00 
p.m. -film series, chaplin's essanay films, S1, an­nenberg aud., snite museum. 

•7:30 
p.m. -charismatic euc­harist, log chapel. 

•7:30 
p.m. meet the deans night, sponsored by the college ofarts and letters, library aud. 

•8:00 
p.m. -film,"buddhism, man in nature," with alan watts, sponsored by dept. of english, carroll hall, S!f!C. 

•8:00 
p.m. lecture, "jerusalem as a unified city," ambassador zvi brosh, from jerusalem, sponsored by in­stitute for international studies and american profs for peace in the middle east, haggar hall. 

•8:00 
p.m. -basketball, irish vs. cornell, ace. 

•8:30 
p.m. -ftlm, "little prince," spons. by dept. o6 english, carroll hall, smc. 


Mechato organize 
Mecha, the Mexican-American Club ofNotre Dame is sponsoring an Organizational Meeting tonight at ';I 
p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Guest speaker will be Fr. John Phalen, pastor ofSt. Stephan's Parish. Topic~ of discussion will include tutoring programs for Mexican youths and the planning of a 
Mexican Dinner in the near future. All interested students are welcome. 

Molarity 



Peanuts Charles Schulz 
I THINK 1GOOD AND FOR INSTANCE, WHEN I'M EVIL" ARE VERI{ HARD WALKING DOWN THE STREE"~ TO DEFINE ... I ALWAif5 TRI( TO AVOID STEPPIN6 ON A BUG.•. 
ACROSS 28 Killer 1 Mowedturf whale

The Daily Crossword 5 Knight's 29 Bath basin lady 32 Binary 9 Parade compound 
month 33 "Seven 14 Esprit Gables" 15 Harrow's author 
rival 36 Only 16 BoysTown 37 Roof 
city overhangs 17 Memo 38 Bristle 18 Cross 39 Gave 19 Fictional 41 Wayor 
work well 20 Dry 42 Blvds. 21 Bothers 43 Golf 22 Cake men accessory 23 Klndof 44 Steered 
mustache 45 Dutch 
26 Remove metropolis impurities 48 Preachers 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 



52 Wordof 12 French woe beloved 
53 Earth 13 Dutch celebration painter leHers 21 Boleyn 
56 Highhome 22 Starrand 57 Reference others abbr. 24 Helpers 58 Museof 25 Curtsied history 26 Cavorts 59 Manor 27 Put forth 
Madrid 29 Legexer­60 Repetition clsers 61 Friend In 30 Loosen 
need 31 Vandyke or 62 Mountain goatee 
ridge 33 Despises 63 Zone 34 Hall 64 Concerning 35 Tiber town 
37 Foe DOWN 40 Mirrored 1 Camera whatnot part 41 Foam 2 Herbal 44 Top-notch lily 46 Smalldrum 3 Sentry 47 Upper warmers crust 4 Compass 48 Spanish 
abbr. home 5 Ridicule 49 Ogle 6 Coral .'J ., 50 Sea eagle
Q 

island 51 Civil 7 Fraternal strife 
member 54 Shiny 8 Remnant paint 9 King 55 Toy on a 
10 In violent string frenzy 57 A Gershwin 11 Great 58 Flying review org. 
--·­


"The next day,John was at the river again with two ofhis disciples. As he watchedJesus walk by, he said, 'Look, There Is the Lamb ofGodl' The two 
disciples heard what be said, and followed Jesus. When Jesus turned around 
and noticed them following him, he asked them, 'What are you looking for?' 
They said to him, 'Rabbi, where do you stay?' 
"COME AND SEE," 
he answered. So they went to see where he was lodged, and stayed with him that day." 
GENTLEMEN: 
THE FRANCISCAN FRIARS 
INVITE YOU TO "COME AND SEE", 
VOCATION RETREAT 
JAN 30-FEB 1 
FRANCISCAN RETREAT CENTER Mount Saint Francis, Indiana 
For your reservation or for funher information contact Friar Richard or F~William: 
St Anthony Novitiate 

1316 W. Dragon Trail Transponation will bC provided Mishawaka, IN 46544 
for ND students (219)255-2442 
(Student Union's 

Filii University Registration: .·Wed., Jan. 28th Thurs., Jan 29th 
from 6:00 to 1:00 PM in ballroom 2nd Door La rortune 


Classes begin the week L of February 2nd __) 
.... 
Sports Special -Fencing Tuesday, January 27, 1981 -page 9 
lOth year 
Women fencers impress 
Margi Fink, Nancy Frost, Barb Lam­Langsford is currently No. 3 and
By DAVE IRWIN 
bert, Lisa Long; and Mary Marshall. off to an excellent 7-0 start. McCann 1-'rcshman arc Sharon DiNicola and was 6-3 last season and Lansford I I­
Notre Dame's women's fencing Kris Kostccky. I 0 and 35-27 in her career. program is entering its I Oth year of Bathon returns for her final "Kathy performed surprisingly compt·tition and its reputation is season, 'taking advantage of the five­well for a first-year tencer last year," rapidly matching that of the tht• year eligibility rule'. She finished 30-DiCicco says. "Her quickness and 
men's. The Lady Irish were I 1-2 last 10 last season and third in the Great the experience she has gained will season and second in the Great Lakes Championships. Her career help her to be a very competitive Lakes Rc:gional. Thi~ yt·ar could be mark stands at 'i9-30 and starting 6-1 fencer this year." 
equally as imprcssivt· as they arc ofl this st·ason. Senior Dc.nise Haradem will to a 3-0 start and tran·l to Ohio State: provide needed depth. She was H-16 
.\jmrts lf'rlter 
"We arc very fortunate to have Liz returning this year." DeCicco·says. last season. According to DiCicco,
Saturday to tackk the host Buckeyes and Cast· Western Rt•st·rvc "Her expericm:e and leadership will DiNicola has looked very im­"We arc very c:ncouragt·d by thdr be a key for the success of the pressive. progn·ss," head coad1 Mike: women's team hopes to enjoy." DiNicola. Haradcm and McCann 
DeCicco says. ''We have the nudcus Valdiserri, only a sophomore. was arc all 2-1 this season. h1r a very good team, one of tht· top voted the captain for this year's two or three: in the Midwest." squad and kneed in the No. 3 spot 
Missing from last year's squad is last year compiling, a 2 I -13 slate. She Now4-0 Dodct• Carnt·y and her 31-H record 
is currently in the No. 2 spot behind and carct.·r winning pcrn·ntagt• of 
Bathon and is 'i-1 this season. .HI 0. lkturning arc five-year perfor­
"Susan was a very competitive a freshman," 


Irish fencers foil opponents
mer Liz Bathon, sophomore captain fencer as DeCiccio says. "Last year's experience
Susan Valdiscrri, junior Marcella combined with her technic;ill skil\s 1
Lansford and senior Denise ByJIMLEOUS ' 
and intensity on the strip will make DeCicco,"For three years Greg has Armi wasn't always a fencer. Until
I Iaradem. Also listed on DeCicco's Sports Writer 
her even more competitive this had Mike Sullivan and Chris Lyons to his sophomore year in high school,roster arc juniors Anne Burns and year." push. Now he needs someone to he was a boxer. He started fencing
Linda W eissler. Sophomores arc The Notre Dame fencing team, 
push him. Greg possesses great skill, with the foil, but as a senior picked
now 4-0, seems to be on its way 
and given the proper training and up the sabre. He describes fencing,
toward another NCAA champion­
strong competition, he should be especially with the sabre, as a sport
ship bert!>. One of the reasons for 
ready for the National Champion­that requires thought and strategy,
Notre Dame's continued success is 
ships in March." as well as agility. Greg commented,
sabre captain Greg Armi. In his three
SaintMary's squad 
years on the Irish squad, Greg has contributed much more to the team• • than his amazing 72-23 record
gatns expertence 
shows. Coach Mike DeCicco describes Greg as "a natural leader who works 
There are two ways a spectator of outcome and hand Ohio ~tate a loss hard and sets a good example for the Saint Mary's fencing can view this this time around. rest of the team." DeCicco is par­year's squad. The most optimistic ticularly proud of Greg's work with
Saint Mary's team is coached by
outlook is that each member of the the novice fencer:s program. Four
Greg Mueller in conjunction with
tt·am has previously fenced for ·the nights a week for the past two years,
Michael DeCicco and his Notre
College. Therefore, at first glance, Armi has worked with students who
Dame squad. Mueller, who has 
one would point out that the girls would like to try fencing, but have
coaclted fencing at Indiana Univer­
are an experienced group. never fenced before.
sity, is in his second year at the helm
llowever, if one takes a closer Armi commented on the impor­
of the Saint Mary's team. Mueller
look, he would quickly note that no tance ofthe novice program. "Ifthey
works with the girls each afternoon 
one on the team had picked up a foil (the novices) don't stay, at least
and sees a great deal ofpotential. Af.
before coming to Saint Mary's, and they'll know something about fen­
ter each match he is careful to ex­
tht· team has only two girls with cing. If they do stay, they might not
amine each girl's performance,
more than two seasons of ex­be all-Americans, but they will
particularily concentrating on how
perience. When this group faces up become very team-oriented. I like it
much improvement she has shown.
against big state schools, the odds when everyone helps each other would seem disheartening. On the The team is fortunate that Twila out. The novice program really contrary. however, the results from Kitchin, a junior who spent last year keeps the team going." 


EDiiiDEERS 
their first tournament are anything abroad, has returned to te number Lack of competition is the only ELECTRICAL • MECHANICAL • CIVIL but disappointing. Saint Mary's is problem Coach DeCicco feels Armi 
one spot. She is followed by Sharon slowly but surely making a name for Moore, the talented senior and three might face this year. Says itself in the fencing arena. "Fencing is a visual sport. You must
year captain ofthe team. Eileen Men­LET'S TALK CAREER ENERGY! Last week the girls travc:Icd to Tri­set up an action and observe your
dez and Ann Hendrick, ·both in their State and came home with a perfect second year' on the team, conclude opponent, ·keeping in mind that if 
STONE & WEBSTER-.... 
record, defeating Tri-State, Purdue, the Belle lineup. you hesitate, your opponent can 
Will Be on Campus For Interviews on 
and Wisconsin. Thisweekend'stour­In comparison to other schools make a counter-attack. The best fen­nt·y has the Belles up against a strong the Belles will meet 1,1p with, they cers on the team think before they 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 30th
Ohio State team and Case Western. are a rclativc:Iy inexperienced move." This tournament. at Ohio State, will group. However, they continue to When asked to size up the team, he a true test of the progress the Armi replied, "This year:s team has
gww more confident and im­Be sure to see our representative when he comes on campus and team has made since last year. The pressive both individually and as a much more depth and is much talk.with him about the successful career In energy walling for 
National Tournament 'Yhich took whole. As most teams come to battle quicker than last year's." Coach you at Stone & Webster. place last spring, found Saint Mary's against the Belles, they will realize DeCicco feels that with sabre cap­Never befllre has power engineering and construction been ~ in the lost•rs column after a tough that the inexperience of the Saint tain Greg Armi's leadership, the exciting. Stone & Webster is breaking new ground In all phases
of alternate power generation and Is In the forefront in developing
<:onfrontation with Ohio State. For Mary's fencers is not too apparent Notre Dame fencing team could be 
these new technologies. Challenging projects exist in the areas of 
more than a week the girls have 
when the foils clash, and that's when well on its way to another national synthetic fuels. solar. nuclear. geothermal and coal gasification
been preparing to reverse the it counts. championship. as well as on-going fossil fuel and hydroelectric power plants. We have challenging projects in pacesetting power sources: hydroelectric. nuclear. geothermal. tidal power. breeder 
reactors. coal gasification. synthetic fuels. and fusion reactors­
be part of It all. Be Involved hi the world of energy. interfacing
with the. top professionals in lhe Industry. With us you will have 
more flexibility. visibility. and career latitude; and our. hands-on 
,field training will get you in on the ground floor. Field experiencein our industry is the bottom line. 
Come into the challenging Stone & Webs1er world of people.projects. and practice. For over 90 years. Stone & Webster has been a recognized leader in the design. engineering. and construction of power process. and Industrial facilities all over the world. We are proud of our technological expertise and acheivements. but to ensure our growth and success. we need Electrical. Mechanical and Civil/Structural Engineers to help us 
meet the urgent energy challenges facing the world today. 
. Contact your Placement Office for an Interview appointment. or send your resume to: Jim Rogers. Field Operations. 
&~!~!~!!~o~ 
P.O. Box 2193, Boston, MA 02106 
An Equal Opportunity Employer MIF 



The Observer Tuesday,January 27, 1981 -page 10 

Irish swimmerPat LaP/atney in action at a recent meet. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
-NOTICE­
I I 
It is available.at selected Irish Pubs and 
also a few restaurants, taverns, clubs, bars, 
hotels, saloons, liquorstores and maybe even 
at the Senior Bar. 

"Fighting Irish Beer" 
ND swimmerswin pair • 
By TIM LARKIN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's swimming team is off to a good start after sweeping two meets this past weekend against Wayne State and Il­linois State and raising its record to 3-0. In Friday afternoon's meet with Wayne State the Irish swimmers edged out a victory in the final event, 60-53 and on the following day, held on to defeat the Redbirds, 62-51. 
The relay team of Michael 
· Shepardson, Thomas Krutsch, AI Harding andjohn Komora paced the Irish in the 400-yard freestyle relay in 3:16.5 to win the final event and the meet against Wayne State. The victory came after the Tartars had evened the score at 53-53,by finish­ing one-two in the 3-meter diving competition. 
Coach Dennis Stark was very pleased with Notre Dame's first out­ing of the semester and was not dis­apointed in any phase of his team. "The flu had hurt some ofthe swim­mers' performances," said Stark, "but the others helped out. The Wayne State meet was a good win. 
They finished seventh last year in the Division II championship and also beat us in the process." 
Pat LaPiatney set a meet record in the 200-yard backstoke event with a time of 2:02.6. It was one of seven events in which the Irish were win: ners, and in four of those, the Notre Dame swimmers finished one-two. 
For the second straight day, the .relay teams were the difference in victory. In the Illinois State meet, as in the meet with Wayne State, Notre Dame won both the medley relay and the freestyle relay. The Shepardson, Krutsch, Harding and Komora team beat its time of Friday night with a 3:15.1 clocking. and once again nailed down a victory for the Irish. In all, 17 Irish swimmers improved their times of Saturday over Friday afternoon. 
Stark is very positive about this year's team. "The team is determined and is working very hard," Stark pointed out. For the remainder ofthe season Stark fmds it hard to evaluate his compitition. "The St. Bonaventure and Marshall meets will be tough and we haven't beaten Bradley in a few years", he says. Concerning the Midwest In-

~)f· -

EtECTRICAL ENGINEERS 
• Hardware and Software Fire Control Systems 
• 
Radar 


• 
Forward Looking Infrared, Television, or 


Laser Technology Avionics Test Requirements Analysis 
• 
Radar 

• 
Displays 

• 
Inertial Systems 


• 
Flight Computers 


• Communication If your ready to get your career off the ground, McDonnell Douglas would like to talk with you. Sign 
up at your placement office for a personal interview. Here is the date we'll be on campus: 
Thursday, February 12 
vitational in March at Illinois State, he mentioned the Kentucky schools as the ones to beat. 

Most oflast year's 7-5 team is back this year, including 16 monogra_m winners. Despite the large number of returnees, only five members of the team will be graduating in the Spring. Stark says his freshmen are slowly merging. but it is hard for them to get into the lineup. The Irish could develop as a strong team as the season progresses but Stark says it's·too early to really know. 
Asked wether he can compare this year's team to his team of 1974-75 which posted an 11-1 record, the best of Stark's 23 teams at Notre Oame, he says, "This team has the makings ofthat team. It is starting to gel as a team. However, you must be pessimistic with the flu and injuries like Michael Hilger's shoulder." 
Notre Dame will go on its first road trip of the seaSon as the Irish travel to Canada for a meet with Western Ontario on Thursday night. Stark doesn't know about his team's chances up north. 
.Catneron
• 
continuedfrom page 12 

Cameron has tried to give back to Notre Dame, providing much excitement for Irish hockey fans. Al­though not a great scorer as he him­self will point out, Cameron is a hustling backliner who will reckless­ly hurl himselfinto the path ofan op­ponent's slapshot, exhibiting total disregard for his body. 
At 6-2, 205 pounds, he is a very physical defenseman, whose bone­jarring bodychecks have left many an opponent in a crumpled heap on the ice. Cameron doesn't play cheap but he does work to intimidate the enemy. 
"To me, being a goon is not playing hockey. Intimidation, though, is a part of my game, be­cause ifa player is intimidated by me he may not be thinking ofwhat he'll do with the puck, which gives us an advantage." 
As far as next year is concerned, Cameron has the opportunity to continue playing hockey. He was a 1Oth round selection of the New York Islanders in the 1978 National Hockey •League draft. The prospect ofplaying in the NHL definitly inter­ests him. 
"Right now I'm trying to find out if the Islanders, or any other team, is really interested in me. I'd like to play hockey, after all I've played it all my life, and I've come this far, so why not. I am also interviewing with business firms in case hockey does not become an option." 
Hopefully, Scott Cameron will get his chance to prove himself in the NHL. But more important right now is that Scott Cameron and his teammates prove to the rest of the WCHA that they belong in the playoffs. 
Jeeps, Cars, Trucks 
Available through government agencies. Many sell for under $200. 
Call (602) 941-8014, Ext. 3648 
for your directory on how to purchase. 
• 

by The Ohserz•t•r and The Assuuutcd Pru.r 
Saying Boston "cannotgo it alone," a key city offi­cial called yesterday on the state to back $40 million to $50 million in bonds for a new Boston Garden to keep the Bruins from fleeing to New Hampshire. Bob Ryan, director of the Boston Redevelopment Authority, also accused Delaware North Corp., which owns the Gar­den and the National Hockey League team, of wanting to build the spurts complex primarily for dog racing, with the Bruins as the "sweetener." Bruins President Paul Mooney denied that. He also said Delaware NorJh Is committed to moving to Salem, N.H., if that town's residents approve a dog track, and the New Hampshire Legislature provides a tax break and guarentees bonds for construction of a new sports complex. At a news conference, Ryan discussed a plan for a new Garden on city-owned land behind the current structure. He said it would be owned by a private developer with the Bruins and Celtics of the National Basketball Association as tenants. But he said state help wali required, in part because of tax limitations imposed by Proposi­tion 2 1/2, whkh requires property tax cuts. Ryan noted that the state has turned down similar city requests for financial support twice. But, he said, "the serious threat" of the Bruins' departure requires another 
look. 
Auburn last defeated Alabama in football in 
1972, and a reporter recently asked Morris Savage, one ofthe trustees who picked Pat Dye as the new Auburn coach, how long he thinks it will take for Auburn to beat the Crimson Tide. "We asked that sam·e question of one of the coaches we were interviewing," Savage said, "and he replied, '60 minutes."' -AP 
The Notre Dame Rowing Club is asking those 
interested in signing up for the annual Florida trip to come to the\ 
LaFortune Center tomorrow, from 7 to 9 p.m. Representatives of the 
men's and women's teams will be there to answer questions. 
The clinic for basketball referees will be held today at 4:30p.m. in the ACC auditorium. Aclinic for those interested In cross country skiing will be held at 7:30p.m. in the ACC auditorium tomorrow. 
A spring conditioning program for in­tercstt·d students, began Monday~ ,Jan. 26, at 4 p.m. in the ACC. The first workout will be held in Gym 4, whk·h is located above Gate 3. 
The Ski Club of Indiana University is sponsoring a skiing trip Feb. 27-March 1 ( Fri.-Sun.) at Schu:;s Mountain and Crystal Moun­tain In Northent Michigan. The package includes two nights lodging at the Traverse City Days Inn and lift tickets for Saturday and Sunday. There will be a meeting Feb. 3 at 3:30 p.m. in the small theater of LaFortune. Non-members are welcome. For more Information, call 
David Nagy at 259-1378. 
,.. The Fighting Irish Hockey team prepares for the end ofthe season fight for a WCHA playoffberth. (Photo by Tim McKeogh) 


Martintakes'TrlpleCrown' 
NEW ORLEANS (AP) -"When you win three games in a row, it's called a Triple Crown, in honor of John Matuszak's favorite drink. I had two Triple Crowns and that's hard to do. So Ted Hendricks told me, 'You've been doing it all week, why not today,"' said Oakland linebacker Rod Martin. 
Martin took the advice and his Super Bowl Triple Crown became a record three interceptions in the Raiders' 27-10 victory over Philadel­phia. 
Not bad for a guy who had been a washout on both sides of the San Francisco Bay. 
Martin had been drafted in the 
12th round by the Raiders in 1977 but was released during training camp. 
"It hurt me to get cut," he said. "I really wanted to be an Oakland Raider." 
There was a two-week look see by San Francisco and then the waiver list. Then, late in the 1977 season, the Raiders brought him back and he's been there ever since. 
"I studied and studied all week," he said. "I sat in my bed after curfew and looked at film. They were trying to hit the short fiat area and that's my area" 
The first interception came on RonJaworski's first pass of the game and set up Oakland's first touch­down. The second one halted an Eagle drive as Philadelphia tried to battle back from a 21-3 deficit. The third one just about finished off the Eagles. 
Afterward, Martin was a media star In the Oakland dressing'room. "Somebody wants to talk to me," he exulted. "You're kidding!" That's what a Super Bowl Triple Crown will do for a guy. 

~-------------------·------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-------------------, 
All cl,lssd•f'd ads must tJp re\·etvP.ct tv 4 45 p m IWI') <lavs ~nvr to the 
·~·wP 1n whtt.:h th.-·tel •c; run The Observer olftce wdt accept ct.hstfoeds 
, Mund.tv Thrnt14h Fnd~\ 10 00 rt m to 5 00 J.> m AU classtflt~c1s 'T1tJSt be




Classifieds 
1Ht-.()ctu1 r•r:•~t~r '" tu•rson ur lhrtouyh Ule lndll 
lost; silver pierced earring (white for Rent: Cozy apt. for rent near dcsperarely need two lJCL\ GA 'S 
shy, kinda outgoing. loves sports,
enameled flower). Reward. lffound, River & Park. Sl50/mo. Call 232-pay big U call I 174
[NOTICES I. FOR SALE 
music, c:tc l.a.~t lady trearc:d him a •call277-8819. 4549. 
little: cru.:1. Come on, let's show him need 2 GA'S to ANY remaining home
for Sale 1974 AMC Hornet. Good someone can care. Call John afit·rthere'S MORE TO THE STORY 
lost: Men's gold class ring_ P.C. High campus view apt. AVAIL. GREAT­1 basketball game. Call Brad at 1247
Condition. S200 8:~0p.m.
THAN MEETS THE EYE School. Orange stone. Phil 8338. LY REDUCED RENT. LISA AT 2968 
Ills Boddl<'s OR MARIE AT 277-3579. desperately need on<: pair of IJCI.A
for Sale: 1974 AMC Hornet. Goodlearn to fty with regional 
lost: r()()m and car keys, near ad GA tickets for my parents. Please
Condition. S250. Call David 233­10lo in leSB tban 30 DAYS 
bldg. on an FBI ring_ If ''und call for rent; large, furnished houst-s help. Call steve: anytime at 66%.
~6~8. the Bos.'!i wa.' gn·at hut walt Ill you
ReRiunal Flying Club is a nonprofit 
8700. for next Fall. For more information, hear Santa Fl'!
organl'&alion dedicat.-d to the train· 
call283·8702. rock wirh Santa Fe Friday, 1!:00 p.m.! lng of otudcnts. We offrr you the 
found; a watch in stanford aphrodite, I'm willing If you are!!! 
Rnest equipment at the lowest rates hall'S PARTY ROOM LAST FRIDAY furnished house for rent couple l.c.·t's make ~orne..· thunt.lt:r on MtIn thio area. Regional can take you 
UAN.I6).CAUPAUL8636. blocks from campus and furnished Olympusi!!-Zeus P.S. M>rry h>r dl'layfrom ground irunru<·tion up thruugh 
country house: for rent, I 2 minutes 

._____TIC_K_E_Ts___.l L-1_PE_RS_O_N_A_LS__~
solo in les.• than 30 days. Cali us now lost: Woman's Gold Watt·h on In N.D. 277-3604, 288-09~5. 
mark kiraskh anti Stevt· Rt·n will at 683-9499 and start nylng today Friday: 6728 Sue or Christy 6734. 
burn in hell l<>r the dt·ath allll 2 bedroom bungalow, carpt·ted, par­need 2 GA TICKETS FOR ND-IJCI.A destruction that they n·"k<·tl this prufcs•lonal typing_ Term 
losl·IA>SI-Lost tiaUy furnished, 10 minutes to N.D., BASKETBAI.I. GAME. PLEASE CALL social con,·crns film series 
weekend. Tht· Mana11<-r ul' Mutl'l Sex papers, the"""· etc. Tapt' transcrip· 8xll Brn Envlp good area. 2811-119~5. SHIRLEY AT8661 OR 171 ~BEFORE begins this week with "the lion. '-""t year'• same low prices. All Field Museum 5P.M. great santini." 
l<l all the "fella." at Pangborn "ndwork guaranteed. aardvark l'ish Biology nice houst·s for rent for nt·xt school 
friend•.. .Thank•! Tht· 1\arn. automatk onlutions. 289-67~3. Chris 288-8738 year or summer. Furnished, good need four ga'S FOR SOUTH marriedO engaged() searching 
nl'ighborhood, close to campus. CAROUNA. CALL 808 4641. for a safe, HEALTHY, EFFECTIVE 
gino's, here we l'omcn (Start .-.;avin,t.t
typing · will do ty.pinll in my h<Une 277-3604. 288-09~~-AND MORAI.I.Y ACCEPTABLE 
your money, guys!)Term Papers, etc. 23~·6730. lost cross pen set. ONE WITH need ucla ga'S--CALL MATT AT MEANS OF PLANNING I'REG· 
FELT TIP, THE OTIIER IS A BLIJE share three hcdroom house, two 2~2-0921. NAN<.:IES? CALl. 288-2662 TO 
attention l'lqutrrd~. plc.·a:te.·
the Arts and Leuen Student Ad­BALLPOINT WITII ND blocks from campus. One REGISTER FOR NATURAL FAMII.Y 
keep off tht· !'runt page ol tht· Ob· visory Council pr.-!ICnts "A Night MONOGRAM ON IT. HIGH PER· housemate n<'tded. SIOO per month. four excellent padded seats for PLANNING CLASS STARTING TIIES­
!iC'rvcr, even ifplU art· house.· trained.
With the l>ean" Tuesday,january 27 SONAL VALliE. PU:ASE CAI.L 233-287-9506. Springsteen. Call Rob 277-0865. DAY.JANliARY 27, ON CAMPUS. 1981 In the Uhrary Lounge at 7:30 4309. 
patricia sullivan.
P.M. 
wanted: 2-4 GA's to UCLA and/or St. happy 21st Birthday Bill, As a great 
liavt· a happy 16th, wheels. Francis ba.•kethall gamt·s. Top HU. philosopher once said, "The door Is 
Low:, sis. 

illl'ntion S thursday night Call 1804. open, but the ain't free." howling ka11ue now for-4 Special Friends MING. HANDICAP LEAGUE 
need UCLA tickets: 2 student and I
L...___..,:_FO_R_R_EN_T---Jj '~_W_A_N_TE_D____, 
how bout tho~e zun.:hc.·~O CONSISTING OF ~-MAN TEAMS, GA. Will pay megabuck US. Please STARTING IN EARLY FEBRUARY call Cyndy 8014. 
Quad, humble apologks to any Oh5cr· 
FOR tliRTHER INFO CAU RAY AT 
two Notre Dame students are Hope your 21st Blrrhday is vcritcs who may have bc..•t•n offended 
6M2. TO TIJRN IN TEAM RO~TERS wanted; I UCLA TICKET, STIJ­
houses for rent summer and/or next looking for one or two roumatcs to "AWESOME". You deserve tht· best by my ahusiv~ languall<' SundayCAU TOM AT 3039. DENTOR GA. PLEASE CALI. PAT AT
sch()()l year. Good condition, close live in five bedroom house. Call234-and I'm sure you'U get it. You were: night while repairing the type,.,ucr.----------·-----to campus, partially furnished. For 7988 and ask for Doh or Mike for 277-8727 born to run!!!!!! I shall be qukt~r in the future. info call 287-5361 after 6 p.m. details. Love, Moose Control 
Vicki house for rent, second semester wanted Ior 2 students to drive back nred 2 UCLA GA'S. Call jim, 4613. and/or next year. ExceUent condi­to the new york new jersey area on 
loot silver St. Christopher medal 
!LOST/FOUND \ 
Uon, close 10 campus, partially fur­wednesday january 28 till sunday parents coming for jpw. NEED ladies, !()()king for a meaningful moo.., Dictionary Thurs. 1-1 5-81 at Stepan call ·Frank february I. I have my own c·ar 4 day
nished. For info call287-5~61 after6 TWO GA TIX FOR UCLA. PLEASE relationship? Have we got a guy for I ) moo.., -n., something sloh5 1740 
p.m. weekend call brendan H2·8931 CALL MARG AT 6879. you! He's 6'2", curley brown hair, make ofthdr rooms. and eves that could melt steel. Kinda 
Tuesday, January 27, 1981 -page 12
SRQrts 
Irish face Big Red 

winning three straight games before last Friday's loss to Columbia, Cor: nell has gained some confidence and will be looking to blemish Notre Dame's perfect home record this sason. Such a thought has crossed the mind of Irish coach Digger Phelps as he recognizes the pos­sibility oftaking Cornell too lightly. 
"Although <::ornell doesn't have an impressive record, Tom Miller is an excellent coach and he'll make the most ofthe talent he has." 
At Miller's disposal is a relatively 

short, yet consistent front line that 
( 12.3 ppg., 6.8 rpg.) and 6-7 Mike Lucas (I0.8 ppg., 3.9 rpg. ), alongside 6-3 Mike Allen ( 10.7 ppg.)atthefor­wards. In the backcourt, Miller will go with two freshmen, 6-1 Ron Tryon and 6-2 George Hall, both of whom are improving as the season progresses. 
Scholarships attract stellar -wo111en cagers 
By EDWARD KONRADY Does the idea of being -one of Sports Writer Notre Dame's initial woman scholar­
ship recruits affect an 18-year-old 
For Notre Dame's women's bas­from Glenview? "I used to w9rry ketball team to prosper, quality about it a lot," admits Klauke. "I was players from high schools around worried about pulling my weight. the country must be recruited. This But now I don't worry about it, be­summer, for the first time in Notre cause it doesn't help. I just try to be a Dame's history, women were given good example to everyone by scholarships to play basketball for playing hard." the Irish. Because of a stress fracture in her 
One of two girls selected wasJen· right foot, Klauke missed the pre­
ny Klauke, a 5-10 swingman from season conditioning and some ofthe 
Marillac High School in Glenview, Il­early practices. In her eagerness to 
linois. At MacUlae, Klauke averaged adapt to the new style, Klauke 
18 points, 1 0 rebounds, three assists started to press, and as Knapp 
and three steals per game, receiving described it, "started playing too 
all-state honors as a senior. hurried. Jenny didn't know when to 
Klauke's college coach, Mary use her speed and when not to, 
DiStanislao, says "Jenny still has a which resulted in a lot of turnovers. 
great deal oftalent that has yet to be With more experience and court 
directed. She is a hard worker who is maturity, Jenny will become a fine 
still learning a great deal about the basketball player." 
game. I sawJenny play while I was at Like her teammates, Klauke em­
Northwestern, but she didn't fit in phasizes the team. "We're all just 
our plans." trying to build a program," says 
However, when DiStanislao Klauke. "Some people think we're arrived in South Bend and dis­going to fizzle, but there's no way. covered that Klauke wanted to go to 
Notre Dame, she signed her because "you can't beat the combination ofa recruit who wants to play and also wants to come to your school." 
"Our recruits must be abt'e to lead and stand out as an example to the people who come in the future," says DiStanislao. "Jenny is this type of girl, and we expect her to be an integral part of the team for the four years she is here." 
Klauke's strength is her brillant shooting. "Jenny can roll out of bed in the morning and hit an 18-foot jumper," says Assistant Coach Patrick Knapp. 
Recently, Klauke scored 16 points against Illinois-Chicago Circle and 14 points against Miami (Ohio) in losing efforts. 
With the loss ofJan Crowe, Klauke 
has taken over at forward. "I'm more 
comfortable at forward, because 
that was my position in high school," 
says Klauke, "but I also like to play 
guard because I like handling the 
ball. I just want to play my best 
wherever she wants me to play." 
It is this attitude of Klauke's -"I 
just want to contribute" -that 
made her so attractive as a recruit. 
DiStanislao says Klauke · "feels 
responsibility, which is fine. I tell my 

With the well-timed return of TracyJackson last Saturday, the Irish will be countering with the same five that began the seaon although Tim Andree's inspired play of late has turned many heads. Flanking Digger's choice at center will be two senior forwards who are coming off eye-opening performances in Satur­day's nationally televised game. Kel­ly Tripucka led all scorers with 25 points against the highly-rated Ter­rapins, while Orlando Woolridge contributed key baskets and cleared the boards consistently in the relatively few minutes he played. John Paxson continues to command the Irish on the floor, and will combine withJackson to give Notre Dame a formidable backcourt duo. 
Phelps realizes the importance of 
putting together a winning form as 
the NCAAs approach, and he wants 
to start with this prolonged stop at 
home. 

"The game will be an important 
one for us for a number of reasons," 
says Phelps. "We're coming off an 
emotional game at Maryland, and 
we'll be opening an important home 
series." 

IRISH ITEMS -Gilbert Salinas 
could be out for the season with the 
knee injury he suffered two weeks 
ago during the game at San Fran­
cisco...Notre Dame continues its 
South Carolina Gamecocks visit the ACC...tipoff for the game with the 
Tim Andree displays an aggressive style ofplay that led to an Irish
Cocks is listed on tickets as 1:30 p.m 
victory overMaryland. (Photo by Tim McKeogh)
It has been moved to 8 p.m. 
Cameron looks toplayoffs 
By MIKE OLENIK 
Sports Writer 
Fresh from an impressive win over Atlantic Coast Conference power Maryland, Notre Dame is lying in ambush for the six teams 
that will visit the ACC in the next 
two weeks. The homestand begins 
tonight at 8 p.m. when the Big Red of 
Cornell face the Irish in the first 
meeting between the two schools 
since the 1938-39 season. 
Holding a 2-1 series edge, Notre 
Dame will be out to improve on a 
12-3 slate that boasts wins over such 
contenders as Kentucky, Indiana, 
San Francisco and, of course, 
Maryland. 
Tom Miller, a former assistant 
coach under Bobby Knight, will lead 
his Ivy League representative onto 
Notre Dame's home floor hoping to 
improve upon a 4-9 record. After 

By MICHAEL McMANUS legiate Hockey Association. Sports Writer And while many players and fans 
can reassure themselves that there is 
It hasn't been the happiest or most always next year, Scott Cameron successful of seasons for Scott can't and doesn't look at it that way. Cameron and the ·Notre Dame He's a senior, which means that this hockey team. The bright pre-season is his last season skating under the hopes of October are all but forgot­North dome of the ACC, and he'd ten as the t.eam has struggled all year, like to make a final appearance in the and now faces a tough uphill battle WCHA playoffs. just to make the playoffs. The Irish "I feel we can come back and arc five points behind Colorado Col­make the playoffs. We've had a lot of lege in the battle for the eighth and problems this year, for example, we only received two scholarships. We have also had a lot of injuries. But I feel that criticism can't go beyond yourself. W c have to realize that we haven't done the job and that we have to start doing it, because this team Is too talented to be where it is," said Cameron. 
Cameron himself has been hit by the injury bug this year. He current­ly has a seperated shoulder that forced him to miss last weekend's Denver series and his absence was a notable one. Just ask goalie Bob McNamara, who faced 91 shots over tbe two game series in wblt must have seemed like a nightmare. A healthy Scott Cameron on defense probably would have cut down on that total somewhat. 
Cameron hails from Toronto, On­tario, which is a veritable hotbed for junior hockey talent. Even so, Scott came to Notre Dame mostly through his own efforts rather than those of Coach Lefty Smith. 
"I was recruited by some schools back east such as the University of Vermont and the University of Mas­sachusetts, but I actually wrote a let­ter to Notre Dame. Greg Meredith and Alex Pirus were good friends of mine, so I asked them for advice when I was considering schools. They recommended Notre Dame very highly. So I wrote a letter to Lefty, and here I am." 
That decision, Cameron believes, 
has turned out to be a wise one. 
"Besides the chance to play col­
legiate hockey, Notre Dame has 
given me an excellent education, 
which will benefit me fol' the rest of 
my life. In addition, I met my wife 
here, and although I am not Cat­
holic, I think Notre Dame has given 
me some religious background and 

recruits that a scholarship is a Scott Cameron ofthe Fighting Irish hockey squad. See story above. (Photo byjohn Macor) Insights that have really helped me." reward in advance for effort." 
See CAMERON, page 10 




