
WEDNESDAY, APRIL I, 1981
VOL XV, NO. IIH an independenr srudenr newspaper serving notre dame and sainr mary's 
Ephron speaks on w-otnen's progress 
By ANNEJANE DREGALLA 
StuffReporter 
Nationally r~nown~d journalist and author Nora Ephron proclaim~d that "women's colleges ought to, in some way, cncourag~ you to make a littk trouble" during last night's kcture in Carroll Hall. Ap· proximately I 50 people attended the keynote address ofWomen's Op· portunity Week at Saint Mary's. 
In her lecture Ephron stated that sht· bell~vcs that women are "damaged by the time they arc I H years old in this country" and commltcd herself to the fa<.·t that "women's <.·olkgcs should be doing something about forcing women to defint· themselves before going out Into the world. 
Though she conceded that some: progress ha.~ occurred, and women are thinking more professionally on a pt:rsonal ba.~is, she said that is not the "stuff" which makes a strong 
political movement. She said the women's movement ha.~ spawned its own opposition who have a developed a grasp on the political power that Is involved to bring women to eventual economic equality. Ephron doubted that will 
occur in her lifetime and pointed out that the economic level of women Is significantly lower than it wa.~ 20 years ago. 
Ephron asked, Where are the young leaders ofthe women's move­ment. Whert: Is the women's move­ment?" 
Ephron emphasized that the media lierves a function ofreflecting the present values ofsociety. She ex· pial ned, in relation to a discussion of People magazine how, In the 1950's, there was an obsession with gossip reporting and "Couples" columns. Such columns emphasized a "big man and small woman", hence "woman's fulfillment through a man". 
The woman's movement arrived and "for five minutes it wa.~ O.K. to be a woman, and to be what you wanted, you just had to know what you wanted. That was a very interestin~ moment." But in 198I we are back to the "Couples" era. She called the current era an era that takes an old value, adds the new value and makes an all-star couple. The couple now however has a functioning woman, "at least the woman knows what she is", Ephrun stated. 
Thus as women fall back into the same patterns, Ephron related, the old media patterns also return. "Soctety resists change. Traditional values can push through new values and look as though it has a new dress...the old value, only it looks a little better," Ephron emphasized. 
She stated that the media is not to blame for the reduced womens coverage in America. At one time the women's pages were the place to be at the newspaper, the media is not to blame that "not much is going on with women" 
Born In New York and raised in Los Angeles, Miss Ephron graduated from Wellesley and began working as a reporter for The New York Post. She married twice, first to humorist Dan Greenburg then to Carl Bernstein of Watergate fame. 
Ephron is now a free-lance writer who has published three hooks: Wal· 
See NORA, page 4 

========================================== El Salvador 
Reps discuss military issues 
Editor's note: The Center for Ex­periential Learnl11g sponsored a week·lfmg seminar in Washington, 
D.C. during semester break. Ob­sen'er reporter Kelll Flint par­ticipated In Jbe seminar, and gathered the following statements from representatives of Congress, NETWORK, and the Pentagon concerning current military issues in the United States. 
Nieland stated NETWORK's posi· 
lion on the El Salvador issue. "We 
believe that there should be no 
military aid given to El Salvador," 
she said. "There should be negotia· 
lions. El Salvador is a small country 
that ha.'> undergone many injustices 
and rebelling. What good will It do 
for the United States to send them 
weapons? 

"We are supporting a country that 
ha.-. shown that it can't maintain con· 
trol of it's military troops. It's ter· 
rorism pure and simple. There is no 
need for the U.S. to send military 
aid." 

Senator Henry jackson ( D· Washington) Is sympathetic to the actions of the Reagan administration in El Salvador, according to aid Bob Nichols. Jackson believes that the external arms coming into the country from Cuba must be cur· tailed," he said. "Not giving arms 
-~----~-~~-~-----------------------------------------....... 
would result in making the moderates vulnerable to the point where they would be non­functional. Ifthis happens, they will be destroyed by the left." 
Senator Alan Dixon ( D-lllinois) also supports the administration in granting aid to El Salvador, accord· ing to Dixon's press secretary, Wade Nelson. 
"Dixon feels that we may be get· ting involved a little too much 
WEDNESDAy.=:=:=:=====:::== 
·=::;:;:;:;::=========FOCUS 
militarily than is good for the country," he added. "He would sup· port the investigations proposed by Senator Kennedy earlier this week." 
Kathy Flaherty of the Religious Ta.~k Force on El Salvador, who worked in the Peace Corps in El Sal· vador from 1977-1979, said that Sal· vadoran President jose Duarte does not have the support ofthe people. 
"Support for Duarte decreased when people realized that he could not control the military,"Fiaherty said. "The people support the op· posite regime. Duarte is supposedly the moderate, but he has no control over the military. The existing divi· 
WA~HINGTON (AP)-President usual, with the vice president pinch­Reagan rebounded yesterday from hitting for the president," said Bush gunshot surgery in "exceptionally spokesman Peter Teeley. good condition" and with a strong At the White House, lunchtime dose of humor as he signed a major crowds milled outside the black iron economic bill and resumed com· fence under sunny skies. Inside the 
mand ofthe country. gates, aides took pains to portray the 
Vice President George Bush said government as functioning normal­the chief executive was rosy· ly. ~heeked and looked robust as he Bush directed a Cabinet meeting, took up presidential business from met with congressional leaders, and his hospital bed early in the morn· greeted the visiting prime minister ing. Bush, meanwhile, assumed the of the Netherlands, Andreas A.M. president's day·to·day White House Van Agt. schedule. White House communications 
The 70-year-old president was were installed at the George Wash· described by doctors as being in ington University Hospital, where "excellent spirits," fewer than 24 Reagan was recuperating, seven hours after an assailant's bullet was j blocks west ofthe White House. removed from his left lung. Reagan Appointments Secretary 
"It's pretty much business as IDavid Fisher set up an office there, 
sion In El Salvador is between the 
military and the people, not the 
moderate and the left." 

"Archbishop Romero denounced 
the cause of the situation of the 
people in 1979. The reason for the 
violence is not the guerillas, but that 
the wealth is in the hands of a few 
people." 

Fr. Miguel Ventura, a Salvadoran 
priest forced to flee the country be· 
cause of pressure from the military, 
offered insight into the reasons for 
the Salvadoran government's op· 
position ofthe church. 

"The government opposes the 
church because the church supports 
community life for the poor. Priests 
were killed because they organized 
the poor and taught them to live in a 
christian community. The only solu· 
lion to the problems in El Salvador is 
to start a dialogue between the 
opposing forces." 

Flaherty doubts that mediation would succeed."The people have been oppressed for too long. They want total control ofgovernment." 
In a letter written to the editor of the Washington Post, Flaherty states: "The struggle of the peasants, workers and intellectuals in El Sal· vador will not and cannot be defeated by the United States' 
See ISSUES, page 3 

and deputy White House press secretary Larry Speakes said "there's not a lot of difference from him (Reagan) being in the Oval Office." "We're fully prepared to take care 
of anything," Speakes said. "He's ful· ly able to function as he would be anywhere in the world." 
White House Chief of StaffJames Baker said that shortly after the wounded president reached the hospital Monday, "full communlca· tions" were opened between the medical center, the White House situation room and the airplane carrying Bush back to Washington from a speaking trip to Texas. 
Baker insisted the administration wa.o; prepared at all times "for any contingency that might arise." 
The chief of staff refused to say whether the United States had sought assurances from the Soviet Union or warned Moscow not to try to take advantage ofthe situation. 
Baker said that after Reagan was attacked Monday, Gerry Parr, the chief of the Secret Service's presidential protection detail, or· 
See REAGAN, page 4 

junior Cla~s plans action on lottery 
ByJOHN McGRATH 
Editor-In-Chief 

Reacting to strong anti-lottery sentiment at last night's meeting, the Junior Advisory Council took steps toward the formation ofan action committee to deal with the possibility ofan off-campus lottery. 
"Even though the administration has made no official statement about tht lottery, we must be prepared," explained Junior Class Secretary Keith Caughlin. "This committee will allow us to mobilize within 24 hours in the event ofa lottery." 
All members present at the meeting volunteered for service on the 
action committee. Some of the potential courses of action includt•d 
hall meetings, letter-writing campaign by parents, and ultimately, 
phone-jamming.~ and demonstrations. Appeals would also be made to 
the Alumni Board and the University Executive Board. "We want to 
know what's going on with the lottery decision. At the March 9 stu· 
dent senate meeting, we were led to believe that a final dedsion 
would come April I," explained Megan Boyle, junior Class Vice Prcsi· 
dent. "Juniors need a decent amount of time Ifthey have to cope with 
being forced offcampus." 
The council members pointed out that there is very little quality 
housing left for next year -especially with the large number of stu· 
dents already planning to move offcampus. 
The council also expressed deep concern over the discriminatory 
nature ofa potential lottery. 
"Ifwomen. varsity athletes, RA's, and voluntary off-campus students 
are excluded from the lottery pool, next year's senior men who prefer 
on-campus living will suffer most;" said Mike Cassidy, Junior Class 
President. "But I feel it's important for the entire junior cla.~s to unite 
and make a stand against the possibility ofa lottery." 
-

Wednesday, April1, 1981 -page 2



NewsBrieb 
c===~========~================================~

by The Observer and The Associated Press 
The body Ofa blackchild found in the Chattahooc­hee River was identified Tuesday as 13-year-old Timothy Hill -the 2 I st black child murdered in Atlanta in 20 months. Two others are 111issing. John Feegel, associate Fulton County medical examiner, said the probable cause ofdeath was asphyxiation. Medical examiners con­ducted an autopsy on the partially decomposed body of the youth found semi-nude in the river Monday. Hill, who disappeared March 
13. had been considered a runaway and there were reports he had been sighted since then. At least seven other bodies have been found in the Fulton County region where the body was discovered, police said. The body had been in the river between three days and two weeks, Feegel said, and was partially decomposed, but "the face is virtually recognizable." Fulton County Police chiefClinton Chafin had said upon finding the body that there was little doubt it was a case for the special police task force that has been investigating the slayings and disappearances. -AP 
Justice Department sourcessaid Tuesday they 
have found written evidence thatJohn Warnock Hinckley Jr., accused in the shooting of President Reagan a day earlier, may have wanted to "go out and do something to get himself killed." Hinckley was given tranquilizers and held without bond at a Marine base in Virginia, await­ing psychiatric testing to determine ifhe is competent to stand trial on a charges of attempting to assassinate the president and assault a federal officer. The justice Department sources, who declined iden­tification, revealed that federal investigators found an unmailed letter written by the accused assailant in which he indicated "he might go out and do something to get himself killed." The letter, the sources said, was addressed to 18-year-old movie actress Jodie Foster and reflected that Hinckley, the 25 year-old son of a wealthy Denver oil­man, was in an "I don't care what happens too me" frame of mind. Administration and congressional sources, who declined to be iden­tified, said Hinckley's letterspelled out his plans in detail. They did not elaborate. -AP 
Early' scattered returnsfrom the Appalachian coal-• fields Tuesday showed striking miners voting against a proposed United Mine Workers contract by a heavy margin. With about one­fifth of the votes counted in UMW district 17, the union's largest, the vote was 8-1 against, said Cecil Roberts, vice president ofthe Charles­ton, W.Va. based district. He did not release the vote totals. In Ohio's District 6, where UMW President Sam Church met his most bitter opposition while stumping for the proposal, the vote was 3,567 against and 1,134 for the contract with 19 of the district's 41 locals reported, saidjohn Prout, district vice president. "Well, I still think it's gonna be ratified," Church said. However, a pattern of opposition similar to that in Ohio and District 17 was reported in two other West Virginia districts. Dennis Saunders, president of District 29 in south­ern West Virginia, said: "with 52 of 80 locals counted in our district, it's going down four to one. It's getting clobbered." -AP 
President Reagan, told for the first time Tuesday that his press secretary had been critically wounded in the same fusillade that hit him, replied: "Oh, damn. Oh, damn." Reagan was told by the White House physician, Dr. Daniel Ruge, just after noon, that press secretary James S. Brady, a Secret Service agent and a city policeman had also been hit outside the Washington Hilton Hotel. Then, Reagan's chief of staff, James A. Baker. told reporters, the president asked if Brady had been hit in the brain. Ruge said he had and it was then Reagan said, "Oh, damn. Oh, damn." When Reagan first learned from his wife ofBrady's wounds, Baker said, the president's "eyes welled up with tears." He said first lady Nancy Reagan told her husband that on Monday night many people had not expected Brady to live. "Oh dear," he was reported to have said. "Let us pray." Baker said Reagan had realized at least one man was wounded shortly after the gun shots rang out. As the president was shoved into his limousine and driven away from the hotel, Baker said, Reagan saw one man on the ground and assumed it was one of the Secret Service agents assigned to protect 
him -AP 

"0rd"mary p eop1e," the story ofa wealthy family torn apart by the tragic death ofa son, was named best picture of 1980, and Robert Redford won an Oscar for directing the film at the 53rd Academy Awards Tuesday night. Sissy Spacek, as country singer Loret­ta Lynn in "Coal Miner's Daughter," and Robert DeNiro, as the blus­tery boxer Jake La Motta on the skids in "Raging Bull," won Oscars as best actress and actor. Mary Steenburgen, as Melvin Dummar's kooky t1rst wife in ""Melvin and Howard," and Timothy Hutton, as the dis­turbed younger son in "Ordinary People," won as best supporting actress and actor. The somewhat subdued ceremonies -delayed 24 hours because of the shooting of President Reagan -opened with a straight-faced .Johnny Carson discussing the events in Washington, and introducing a briefgreeting that Reagan, a former t11m actor, had taped two weeks ago. The man who wasn't there -Roman Polanski 
-· was represented by fellow workers of his "Tess," which won two early awards. The adaptation ofThomas Hardy's classic novel "Tess of the d'lJrbervilles" won for an direction by Pierre Guffroy and Jack Stephens, and for costume design of Anthony Powell. Nominated for best director. Polanski declined to attend the awards; he is wanted on a California fugitive warrant for unlawful sex with a minor. -AP 
Mostly cloudy, windy and cooler today with a 3o percent chance of morning showers. Highs in the upper 50s to low 60s. Clearing tonight night with lows around 40. Sunny and warmer tommorrow with highs in ttk low 70s. -AP 
,_ 
From the Earth's Corners 
To them, going away to school takes guts. 
They not only face the basic adjustments college brings; they also must adjust to a foreign language, life­style, customs, beliefs and cuisine -as well as the academic challenges which await them. These are the international students who leave their countries to study in America. 
Notre Dame has 314 international students, a majority ofthem graduate students, and they bring with 
liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~iiiii~iii;;i;;;i;;i;ii;;i~ii55iil 

them.the heritages of 65 countries. Some of them will not return home in their four years (in some cases five) ofstudy. Literally, they come from all ofthe earth's cor­
ners. 
Throughout the year, they partake in meals, parties, movies and masses as well an Orientation Program designed to encourage the students to form friendships and interact with each other. All is done under the watchful, fatherly guise of Fr. Tallorida. 
As Fr. Tallorida sat in his office, with its walls lined with artifacts from oceans away, he explained the cru­cial adjustments foreign students must make. "For them, it's getting adjusted to the academic discipline and studies, and balancing them with outside ac­tivities." Time, you see, is a luxucy -moreso than to your average Domer. And this goes back to the oriental concept of "saving face," according to Fr. Tallorida. 
Perhaps every student feet~ he has certain parental expectations to meet when\ departing for college. 
• Foreign students, however, have not only parental ex­pectations but also cultural expectations. They are representatives of their countries, and they had bet­ter shine, so they believe. Fr. Tallorida said the stu­dents are surrounded by a "fantastic aura" for being successful in their studies. When they go home, they want to go home with a high GPA. And as they sec it, it is better to get those golden grades -even if that task requires living in a library carrel for four years-than to go home and "lose face." "Compared to the amount of time the American stu­dents study, the hours of the foreign students are in­credible. It's difficult for them to use their talents; they say they haven't got time for anything," Fr. Tallorida lamented. -Students must also wrestle with English itself, for most do not speak English as a first language, though they must when they study here. And ofcourse, there is the problem ofhomesickness. Not going home for years on end would make anyone miss home. Enter the host family. Host families are local families who keep in contact with international stu­dents, occasionally offer them some home-cooked food, and spend time with them on breaks. 
Last weekend, the International Students held their festival which annually spotlights the cultural talents of the students themselves. Everything from aJapanese tea ceremony to Irish folk songs could be found in the 
program. Next week, Monday through Friday, the ISO will sponsor its International Marketplace. If any ofyou are 
looking for some unusual knick-knacks, uniqueness and novelty are most surely guaranteed. The Phillipines, Taiwan, China, Ireland and Italy will all have wares 
represented. 
These are not, however, your ordinary tourist wares peddled for the sake of commericialism. Foreigners specifically purchased them and brought them back to campus with the Marketplace in mind. From the Phil­lipines, for example, there will be picture frames, pencil holders, jewelry and other assorted trinkets -all manufactured from sugar cane. 
China will offer tortoise shell pendates and prints from the nation's art museum. From Europe comes rosaries made of Ireland's Connemara marble, a green jadelike stone which dates back 900 million years, and handmade Italian pottery. 
Culture in the orient flourishes as the people have a much deeper appreciation for it. Coming from lands where poetry is read in the streets, family life is sacred, divorce is vitually non­existent and the elderly are respected for their wisdom, international students must really shift gears when arriv­

ing in the land ofCoke and McDonalds. 
To help them adjust, Fr. Tallorida fosters interaction between the students of the various countries. There are parties, masses, get-togethers, movies and meals. And as long as we're on the subject offood... 
That, you see, is another subject entirely. Some ofthe students have never tasted American food -let alone the SAGA cuisine. They adjust their palettes according­ly, (what else can they do?)so says Fr. Tallorida. And their favorite American food? "Hotdogs and beer" says Fr. Tallorida -with a smile. 
Observer notes.____-----. 
The Obseroer is always looking for new reporters -experience is not necessary. If you like to write and are willing to contribute a couple of hours a week, our news department wants you. Ifinterested, come up to our offices ( 3rd floor LaFortune) and talk to one ofour news editors. 

_:fhe_Qbser_v_:er__ 
Design Editor...................... Maura Murphy Design Assistants .............. Lisa Bontempo 
Elizabeth Clay Typesetter ............................ Moose Control News Editor.............................]ohn Higgins Copy Editor ............................ Valerie Evans Sports Copy Editor ............... Gary Grassey Typist ............................... Michelle Kelleher Systems Control ..................... Marty Hynes 
Mikejans ND Day Editor ...................... Molly Woulfe SMC Da)• Editor....................... Cece Baliles Ad Design ............................... Woody & Co. Pbotographer ............................. jane Ahern Guest Appearances.................. Who cares? 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Oburvur is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor $20 per vear ($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P. 0. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
I 

JUST FOR THE RECORD 
7th Annual 

I. Jl.OO off and free papers SALE 
S1 off all LP's and tapes in stock Ftee tolling papets with each LP and tape putchased 
••Ftee T -shirt fot fitst 100 customets spending over SJO Wednesday April 1, 10 am -10 pm 
JUST FOR THE RECORD 100 Center ffiishawaka, IN We have recotd crates 
The Observer Wednesday, April1, 1981 -page 3 
CLC studies o-c problems 

By MIKE DUPLESSIE 
News Stuff 
In the final Council Life Commit· tee mt·cting of Paul Riehle's ad­ministration, the CLC passed a motion to approve the formation of 
a  committee  to  study  the  0-c  
housing problems.  
The  committee  will  study  the  

increasing incidence of crime against student residents in the NE nt'ighborhood. llpon completion of their study the committee will report hack to tht· CLC, with rccom­medations on how to prt·vent crime and improve relations between the students and the community. 
The committee will he composed of twelve members: three" students, three faculty members, three resi­dents of the NE neighborhood, and three members of the Administra­tion. 
The student members ofthe com­mittee will consist of the o-c 

. commissioner, the Student Senate o­c representative, and an o-c t'abinet member to be appointed by Student Body President Don Murday. As of yet only two faculty mem­bers have been named: Dennis 
Moran, and Arthur Quigley, who fs president of the NE neighborhood association. 
Lewis McGann: a city councilman, and Myron Buzby, a local landlord, have been named to the local resi­dents committee. 
The Administration's three mem­bers will be Father Conyers, and Bro. Edward Luthers, head ofthe office of o-c housing, and a third person yet to be determined. 
Also of note in last night's meeting was the absence of five rectors and members of the Administration, including Dean Roemer. 


Issues 

amttnuedfrom page 1 
proposed military packagt·. 
"It is inconsequential how many tanks, guns and other lethal weapons arc contributed by the United States or any other country involved in the proposed mulitlateral plan to sup­port tht· present junta governmem. 
"With the unified spirit and deter­
mination of the Salvadoran people, 
tht:y will regain their country, their 
land and their basic human rights for 
themselves and for their children." 
Reverend Peter Uenriot, of the 
Center ofConcern, spoke to the stu­
dents on International Develop­
ment. 
"The money required to provide 
adequate food, water, education, 
health and housing for everyone in 
the world has been estimated at S I 7 
billion a year,"he said. "This is as 
much as the world spends on arms every two weeks. 
"The problem lies in current priorities. It is more important now to build bombs than to feed people. 
"It is not enough just to take up a collection for the poor. There is a need for more active participation in government. Lobbying, as NET­WORK docs, is an example of the participation necessary." 
"Tom liarvcy, Principal Deputy Assistant for Logistics for the Depart­ment of the Navy at the Pentagon, supported tht· amount spent for defense. 
"Personally, I believe that defense is a necessary phenomenon," he said. "It seems to me that the world does not operate idealistically. 
''Ifwe lay down our arms and turn· the other cheek, we will probably he slapped in that check. 
"I would like to sec more concern with social welfare, but I don't 



Silk Floral Arrangements 
Specializing in Prom, Formal and Wedding flowers 
Mother's Day flowers Phone 234-3293 
CHAUTAUQUA COFFEEHOUSE 

Duke Tumatoe 
and the 
All Star Frogs 
ONE SHOW ONLY 
WEDNESDAY NIGHT 
Admission $1.00 in the Ballroom of LaFortune 
realistically believe that it will hap­pen. 
Harvey also expressed his views on the possibility of a peacetime draft. 
"Personally, I think that we've had a had situation for a long time in that we refused to discuss the draft at the Pentagon. Now discussion is legitimate. We should examine all of our options before we go to a peacetime draft. There are some op­tions that we have not yet looked in­to thoroughly. The volunteer army is an example." 
Harvey leaves office as of April I. His future plans include teaching a graduate course at the Georgetown school of Foreign Service, 


Baggage Truck Concessions 
Contract is mandatory, for any group or individual wishing to run a baggage truck this May &lor August 
Pick -up Applications March 30th Student Union Office 2nd floor LaFortune 

Applications Due: April 8th 
OOMMUBIOA!IOX ARTS at BO!BI DAMI 
Practical skill-oriented communications courses designed for teachers and for prospective professionals. M.A. may be acquired in four summers, or in two summers and the connecting academic year. Also open to nondegree students. 11 day session 
from June 28 to July 7. 22 day session from July 8 to August 8. Courses also available for entire 88 day period. Special feature of 
1981 session: An all-clay Workshop on Writing and Designing 
Publications. Other 1981 courses: The Art of the Cinema, 
Television Production, American Short lictlon, Seminar 
in the Teaching of Short riction, Introductory and Advanced Photography, •on • liction Writing, and 18 Propositions about 
Mass Med1a, rilm as Insight, Creative Writing, Design, Television 
in American Life, Publishing, Public Relations, Independent 
Projects. Write 
Prof. Donald P. Costello, Chairman, Department of q.ommunication Arts, University of :Notre Dame, :Notre Dame, IR 46SS6. 
• 
-'. 


The Observer Wednesday, April1, 1981 -page 4 




E.J. Rib Hou·se Experienced, dependible, 
-barbeque specialists Open Aprillst 
' 

8:00pm 
1338 Lincolnway We~t Deliveries: 24 hour service 7 days 0 week Don't walk talk... We are as near to you OS your phone 
289-7021-289-7022 
SUMMER SERVICE PRO.ECTS 1981 
--Opportunity for two months of seM<:e to those In need-­
Social Concerns Scholarships of 51,000 offered by Notre Dome Alumni Clubs to portlcipollng students 
I 
1 Scholarships still available for these cities: Boston 
Clnclmatt Cleveland 
Indianapolis Los Angeles New Or1eans PIHsburgh HortfOfd 
For Information, contact: 
Carolyn lllJigholzer, R.S.M. Center tor Experimental Leatnng 1110 Memorial Ubral'/ 
X. 271111 
MEN-WOMEN 
Join the Army Reserve without interrupting college. 
When you jotn the Army Reserve under the Spl1t Trainmg Opt1on you can take your Bas•c Training and Advanced lnd1v1dual Tra1ning dunng two consecut1ve summers. You get full pay for your training, so tt's like hav1ng a summer job.
Between your summers of traintng, you serve w1th your local Army Reserve unit. It takes just 16 hours a month. usually a weekend. You earn an 1ncome while you learn and use a skill. 
After your Advanced Individual Training you cont1nue to use your skill in your local unit dunngeach monthly meetmg ' plus dunng two weeks of Annual Trammg Of course. you'll be pa1d for all your Reserve duty. 
For college students, the Army Reserve is a good way to earn extra income while you get practical on-the-JOb 
expenence. 

Call Army Reserve Opportunities 
SGT Olmstead 259-0311 
An Equal Opportun1ty Employer 

• • • Reagan 
continuedfrom page 1 
dered Reagan's limousine to return the president to the White House. But on the way, the president com­plained of soreness of the ribcage and "he may have complained ofdif­ficulty in breathing," Baker said. The course was changed and the limousine headed for the hospital. 
Baker said his deputy, Michael Deaver, called from the motorcade and told him the president had not been struck in the gunfire. Not until the president "collapsed" in the emergency room after walking in from his car, did aides realize Reagan was wounded, Baker saicl 
Deaver then called Baker, still at 




Nora 

continuedfrom page 1 
!flower at the Orgy, 1970; Crazy Salad, 1975; and Scribble, Scribble, 1980. She has contributed as a columnist for Esquire Magazine and her articles have also appeared in such publications as The New York Times Magazine, Harper's Bazaar, New York Magazine, Holiday, 
Change, and McCall's. 
In 1972, Ephron developed the idea of a women's column for Esquire. "It seemed clear that American women were going through some changes; I wanted to write about them and about myself," she says. 
Ephron is now taking time off from her journalistic endeavors to raise her two small children while working on screenplays and lectur­ing at various colleges and univer­sities across the country. 
the White House, and Baker torney Charles Ruff as "wandering, summo_ped Secretary of State aimless irresponsible." He was Alexander M. Haigjr. there. guarded by U.S. marshals and 
Sen. Paul Laxalt, R-Nev., a close 
Marines. No bond was set. friend of the president, emerged 
The b1-1llets fired outside the from a meeting of congressional 
Washingtbn Hilton Hotel on Mon­leaders Tuesday and said authorities 
day at 2:25 p.m. EST felled White established a motive in the at­
House press secretary James Brady, a Secret Service agent and a Distict
tempted assassination., of Columbia police officer. Brady,
Attorney General William French Smith told a reporter "I cannot com­shot in-the forehead, was described by Dr. Dennis O'Leary as having suf­
ment on that aspect ofthe case." . 1 fered "fairly extensive damage" to
John Warnock HinckleyJr. the 25 the right side ofthe brain.
year-old -Coloradan charged with "We believe he is going to live,
attempting to assassinate Reagan, but we have no idea were he is going
was held at the Quantico, Va. Marine to end up," said O'Leary.
Corps base south of Washington af­ter a midnight court appearance at which he was described by U.S. At­


• • • Doggy doo-doo -page 7 
How 'bout them cobs? 


Kansas catches· tourists' ears 
By LEON BENUEY 
Boring Press 
TOPEKA -More tourists arc ·going to Kansas this season than before, say tourism officials here. People are coming in droves and it doesn't look like they will stop soon. 
The officals believe that the economy and smart advertising are the key to the recent interest in the Corn State. "Business is better than before," Bureau of Commerce Su­perintendent Glenn Shamley said. "People from the Midwest now 

know going to Kansas is cheaperand nicer than going to some other place." 
DULL=::::::::::::::=:::::::=:=:=:=:=:::::::::::=:=:::=:=:=======: 
====================;===FOCUS 
Trailways Bus chief Brian Meiner said that Kansas' closeness to most Midwestern states is resp<miblc for tourist picking Kansas as a vacation spot. "It's too expensive to go far," Meiner said. "With the cost ofgas so much, people don't want to drive far from home. 
"Energy-conscious Americans arc getting on the bus." Trailways showed a six percent increase in tourist transit to Kansas during the first quarter of 19H I . "Wc like that," Meiner said. 
Don Mummery ofthc Travel Snap­shot Club commt·ntcd on tht· dub's field trip to Kansas," W c took a bus." Mummery added, "We found that we could sec Kansas up close." 
See KANSAS, page 8 
'Nothing much' 

Moose Control reveals inner self 


r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
,r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
~ 
~ 
r 
r 
~ 
ViC£• President George Hushed surprised Washington byproclaim­ing himselfKing in the wake ofan aborted "Mass Assassin" attempt on President Ronald Reekin. Bushed (shown here at a press con­ference) claims to follow the teachings ofjerry Lewis, andprovedhis point by dressing up as the has-been comic. (photo by The Stooge) 


Squirrels tnount attack on students 
ByJOHNNY MAX 
Dangerous Rodent Reporter 
A hand of militant killer squirrels marked the third anniversary of 
the Notre Dame squirrel independence struggle yesterday by mount­
ing a coordinated raid on an outdoor class being conducted outside 
O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
In a related Incident, three chipmunks and one pet gerbil were 
<:arried off into the woods behind Columba Hall and viciously raped. 
The gerbil Wi!S also forced to perform "unnatural" sex acts with two of 
thl· bcardL·d red squirrel assailants. 
Three students suffered multiple bite wounds from the attack and 
were admitted to the Student Health Center. Five other students were 
treated and then released after being treated for squirrel bites. 
According to ey~ witnesses, the squirrels were heavily armed, 
dressed in ski masks, and attacked from a hidden position behind a 
sculpture in front of O'Shaughnessy. Reports indicated that between 
five and ten of the rodent commandos took part in the raid. 
"They were mL·an little suckers -and armed to the teeth," recalled 
Steve Swonk, one ofthe bite victims. "At first we kind ofall laughed at 
them running around, but it wasn't so funny when I felt these filthy 
littk things gnawing on my arrits and legs." The independent union 
Squirrelidarity claimed rcsponsibillty for the raid in subsequent 
phone calls to The Obseroer and WSND. The caller identified itself as a 
red squirrel and said that the raid was only the beginning of what he 
termed "the final offensive." "Chee, chee, chatter, chip-chow," the 
red squirrel said matter-of-factly. He added that the repression of 
squirrels on the Notre Dame campus had reached intolerable propor­
tions. 
Squirrclidarity and other splinter groups of Reds (squirrels) are 
demanding an end to the on-campus housing crunch, more privacy for 
mating purposes, and a more just and equal distribution ofdining hall 
leftovers. 
Fr. Ancient McFarland, a long-time squirrel watcher and feeder, 
expressed outrage over the incident. 
"This filthy, perverted, and not-even-nice act is going to give all squirrels a bad name," Fr. McFarland bristled. "Just a few of them drunken Reds (squirrels) out to prove their man...uh...squirrelhood. People should realize that squirrels can be nice -why they're people too." 
"I shouldn't even have given them that old altar wine," Fr. McFar­
land admitted after questioning. "I guess Dean Reamer Is gonna be 
kind of...uh...steamed about that." 
For months now, a punster known on~v as "Moose Control" has amused or revulsed Absurder readers with dai~y "moose jokes." Absurder reporter Wooa:v Kaybar recent~}' intt>rr•iewed Control to get the full story• behind the moose phenomenon. The text ofthat inter­
viewfollows. 
Q~ 

Moose Control 
Q: Moose jokes seem to have come from nowhere -one day, we picked up the paper and "Moose Control" was giving us a moose joke. The obvious question is, how did all this get started? 
A: Well, it really started as a whim. A friend had picked up the nickname ef"Moose" qui~c some time ago, and some moose jokes had come out of that. He printed some ofthese in the classified ads; I read them and liked the idea. I decided to try to come up with one every day. It was a chal­lenge -like climbing Mt. Everest or swimming the English Channel. I think I've done fairly well. 
Q: You have come up with one at­most every day. What do you do on "dry" days when you can't come up with new material? I'm sureyou've had some bad days. 
A: I've had many bad days. In fact, I was so disgusted with my jokes at one point that I appealed to the readers for help. The response was tremendous -letters, phone calls, the whole works. Many of the sug­gestions were unprintable, at least by my relatively Puritan standards. Still, it's nice to know you've got a following. I always ask my Absurder co-workers for help when I need it, too. 
Q: You mentioned your Puritan standards. In what way are they Puritan? 
A: I'm a bit old-fashioned. I don't believe some topics are worthy of mention in the media. I have resisted using the obvious "mooseturbation" jokes, for example, even though those are quite popular with the call­in crowr:l. I just won't use jokes I find vulgar. And I mal<e a point of credit­ing anyone whose joke I use, be­cause it's the courteous thing to do. It's not right for me to tal<c credit for something I didn't do. That's the kind nf attitude I'm referring to as "Puritan." 

Q: So you do hcwe some sort of "quali(v control"as Moose Control. Does it ewrget to be too much ofa burden? 

~-~
..·--··..·.....

P'" 
)·.".. ·' -~'..,... 
Moose Control 

A: I'm a moody person. Naturally there have bcen times when I wanted to stop it all. That business with Captain Axe a while back started when I was in one of 1hosl' moods. I creatnl Captain Axe to destroy Moost· Control li>r his own good, borrowing thl' story lint· from th<: confrontation of man and com­puter in 200I: A .\1JaCl' (Jc~J•ssey. But then my mood changL·d, and I had Ax<: save Control from Zero Max, a character crt·ated hy anotht·rAIJ.mr­der staffer. 
IfControl is to he tkstroycd.l will 
he thl· on<· to do it. But that day 
won't come li>r :1 whik yet. 
Q: I'm Rlad you mentioned the saga of Captain Axe. I notice you ha11e begun 'another "moo.~e l'/J ic" about "Vcmians." lf'here do you get your ideas for these tales? What's coming next? 
A: I can't tdl you what's coming next. First, that would spoil all thl' fun. Mon· importantly, I don't know what's coming next. I never decide 
See MOOSE, page 8 

New dorms erected o1Jer radioacti1Je mound 
By RAY D. ATION 
Glowtng StaffReporter 
Seemingly harmless mounds of dirt near Pasquerilla West Hall have in reality been subjecting residents of the dorm to high levels of radia­tion and toxic chemical wastes, The Absurder learned yesterday. A deci­sion on moving the students out of the hall is imminent, according to sources on Dome hill. 
A routine pollution survey of the campus revealed that massive amounts of chemical and radiation wastes were buried under the large mounds surrounding the building. The wastes were leftover by­products of post-war nuclear and chemical research being carried out at the Notre Dame Radiation Laboratory. 
1 "I was beginning to wonder why my stuffed animals were glowing in the dark," complained Catalina Birdhead. "The radiation is really helping out my diet, though." "Those damned mounds looked awful suspicious all along," admitted Jeb Croal<e, a long-time litter collec­tor on campus. "I'll bet they even have dead bodies ofold Indian chiefs buried under there." Student Body President Chuck Mason seized the opportunity by demanding that the radioactive 
wastes be used for student govern­
ment purposes. 
"Hey man, those chemicals and s-­t could really come in handy In getting rid of thl' overcrowding problem on campus," Mason cursed. "Besides, everyone else has the bomb -even f---g Pakistan and In­dia." 
Director of housing Tricky Wcp­
pcn said that plans are already being 
made to fill the dorm with Iranian 
transfer students next semester. 
"During the hostage thing, ever­body said we should have made Iran glow," Wcppen quippt•d. "Here's our chance to let some lucky Iranians glow In this country." 
Reportedly, several nuclear bomb "duds" and cannisters of PCB are among the debris burled under the m0unds. 
Information Services Director Telme Uesome tried to calm repor­ters' fears by pointing out that radia­tion is a part ofeveryone's life. 

"Hey, my alarm clock glows, why shouldn't my daughter? You can get a great tan, and the light bulbs are on all the time so we can save on electricity," Licsome explained. "Besides, we don't have to worry about cutting the grass or killing roaches around the place -it's damned efficient if you ask me." 


l l l I. l 
l 
~ 



Briefs in News 
by The Absurder and other lessers 
Morrissey Hall was reported missing last night at about 

II :30 p.m. Notre Dame Security says that the hall was last seen on the south quad somewhere between Lyons and Howard but the founda­tion under where the building used to be is all that is left. Morrissey II all is described as a nco-gothic structure about four orfive stories tall and covered with ivy. Anyone with any information regarding the dis­appearance should contact Notre Dame Security. -The Absurder 
Solidarity leader Lech Walesa of Poland met with other Polish union leaders to discuss manpower requirements for electrical unit replacements. Andrzej Gwiazda stated that workers may strike like the boxer rebellion if the goverment did meet their current demands. He added that there would at least be legal action on the matter, perhaps a union suit. Miexzdreski Rchjelyja, an official did not shed light on his meeting with Premier Opknsazhcj Tckywaslchijk, son of former Premier Dlajkpofkw Tckywaslchijk. Opknsazhcj said that the situation is becoming more revolting. 
Wjolkgshkvmochi Zyrtklqwskkjpzsxjksdghl was quoted as saying, "Stuzloski vonpt kern tlesticwzvat." -A&P 
The entire dorm of Augusta Hall was forcibly strip searched last night. Women ofthe dorm were allegedly enjoyinga few "lites" when South Bend Police broke into the building arresting all its inhabitants. Sgt. Ben Dover, of the South Bend Police, stated that all the women were then strip searched. St. Mary's students complained that one officer conducting the search, Officer Seymour Cheeks, was not gentle and pantied throughout all the searches. Police Chief Guy Necologist said that he did not approve ofthe searches but a penetrat­ing investigation into the whole business was beingconducted. -The Absurder 
Soviet President Leonid Brezhnev met with Premier Fidel Castro ofCuba yesterday to discuss the increasing shipments of Cuban exploding cigars to other Latin American countries. The U.S. government has protested the shipment of arms claiming that the in­filtration of Soviet Practical Jokes throughout the world is causing non-serious damage to international relations everywhere. In his briefs today, Secretary of State, Alexander Haig said that exploding cigars may not pose an immediate threat but can lead to development of other funny weapons like whoopee-tanks and rubber-MIGS. Haig stated,"lf this should happen it would be hard to take war seriously." 
-A&P 
PopeJohn Paul IImade his first dramatic appearance in Intercourse, Penn. yesterday. The Pope was there to discuss birth con­trol with the United Catholic Conference of Bishops. The Pontiff had just completed a symposium in French Lick, Ind. on the subject of Vatican approved methods of sexuality. Tomorrow the head of the Catholic church will visit Spread Eagle, Wis. There the Pope will give a shorts talk on the endangered species. -A&P 
Acourt battlereminiscent ofthe historic Scopes "monkey trial" opened yesterday after a judge refused to dismiss a civil suit brought by fundamentalists who want California schools to teach the theory of creation alongside evolution. Superior Court Judge Orrin Gatang, saying that the plaintiffs had a right to try to prove their children's rights were violated, rejected the dismissal motion by a state lawyer at the outset ofthe heavily publicized non-jury trial. The state then motioned for a two day rhesus. Deputy Attorney General Chip Panzee contended the state had the right to make-an "educational decision" about teaching the theory of evolution, in­stead ofdivine creation, in science classes. But Gatang said opponents from the "Beginning Via Divinity (BVD)" Centt:r in San Dkgo could try to prove:: that the teaching of evolution as the soul theory of the development oflife on earth violated some children's religious rights. The center's lawyer, Lester Babboon, contended that the state's policy was "essentially bananas."-APE 
Jose Napoleon Duarte,president ofthe ruling junta in El Salvador and 1948 Notre Dame graduate, has been selected Senior Class Fellow for 1981, Selection Committee Chairman Edward Loom announced yesterday. "He's a strong proponent ofland reform and he has suffered greatly under other Salvadoran dictators," Loom said. "He's also a regularly contributing alumnus." Duarte received a degree in civil engineering but claims his most valuable lessons were 
under various l'niversity administrators in dictatorial policy. "The 
selection may be fruitless," Loom said. "He's not sure if the country 
will be there when he gets back from commencement." Duarte was 
never a roommate of Phil Donahue. -The Absurder 
The actress gasped,clasped her hands to her face and began to cry ass the verdict was announced. Her husband, Terry Aires, seated behind her, bent over and kissed her on the cheeks. Miss Bun­nett was awarded damages after being the butt of a vicious article in National Enquirer which referred to her as "a bum" and accused her of drunken behavior in the Las Vegas night club, Gluteus Maximus. The judge reared the decision in an attempt to rectifY the injustice done to Miss Bunnett. This is the first major decision ofits kind in legal annals. 
-APSE 
Two hundred engaged graduating seniors from Saint Mary's have hurled their diamond rings in their fiances' faces to protesJ age-old wisecracks concerning 'a ring by spring or your money hack.' "We're sick of that stereotypical abuse," explained one ruffled SMC chick. "The guys arc a little ticked off, but hey, anything for sisterhood." -The Absurder 
Continued mud today with a graduat shift to stush by night. Hot easterly air emanating from the administration building should be strong but harmless. 

April Fools Day, 1981 -page 6 
Eye-Catching Title With Pun 
I have actually read a newspaper article in another paper, so I was asked to write today's Inside Column. Here I sit in front of one of The Observer's CRTs (Catholic Ray Tube). typing whatever ever drought stricken stream of semi-consciousness happens to babble by. For there have been few times people have asked me for my opinion 'l:nd fewer times where it has been respected. I don't want to blow it. 
One can't help playing king when one gets 18 column inches to fill (certainly more than any ruler could ask for.) One should resist dictating (basically because no one up here knows shorthand). It has often cost authors a good column because they were preaching and sermonizing (which is a shame because a good simoniz­ing costs only $1 5). 
But some things are obviously apparent and most parents seem to be concerned with the rising cost of tuition (which might be three-ition by next year) and thus it's under suspicion that attrition ofnutrition in the dining halls will become the tradition. And what is Father Hesburgh's current circumlocution on the situa­tion? To say nothing ofoffcampus crime... 
As Brent walked quietly and innocently alone, from an inconsequential evening of quaffing brews with his buddies to his noveau­aluminum house on jungle­they come.) And we know when to print names of people who were strip-searched and junk -no busi­ness.major everdid -they would have wasted space by printing the names of people caught with kegs on campus, so let's not be negative about what should be 

black and white. For if XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX and censorship should never be allowed... and you, the guy in my section, if you leave your hairy soap in the showerone more time, I'll print your name, address and everything...so there! Speaking ofpersonal petty venge­ance and offcampus crime... 
Bitsy walked sedately down the asphalted road past the quiet graveyard, her pink ribbons billowing in the gentle night breeze. Then, without warning, cold white fingers grabbed her Chand 5'd neck and with burly 
like Corby, a single lone bassness a voice blurted, 
unaccompanied figure "Got some change for the stalked him. Izodly enough, shuttle?" with each step, Brent took It's almost as bad as the his shoes squeaked guccily hostage situation, which is and brutish gargantuan old but politically rahrah so parallelled with cunning vi­I'll talk about it anyway. And ciousness. Suddenly a I know more about politics 
sweaty palm shot out of the than any ofyou stunted pea­hideous pockets. Brent heads so listen to me gosh­turned as was lacosted by a dernnit. And Carter, whose mysterious man who off year with the election threatened, "Got twenty loss and pitiful peanut crop... cents for a phonecall?" (DELETED 29 COLUMN How long will the ad­INCHES ON POLITICS, Ed.) ministration allow this to and why anyone would ob­happen? How long will stu­ject to having a conscience 
dents small change jingle with fear? Sure, mendicating is a part of the real world, but really? Will Hesburgh allow this to happen to us or to seals which are brutally skinned and pummmelled? It is inFURiating to realize 
that this is not just something you can FLIP aside and expect it to HIDE. 
Which brings me to this neat wet T-shirt contest 1 uncovered. Truly, this is a cultural way to air your dirty laundry, which is certainly sexist, but I enjoyed it anyway. We all know that the last bastion of male supposed superiority is Notre Dame (especially A line at the North Dining Hall.) But that's no excuse. Why are all the priests men? It is the policy of this University to put women in low-paying low-prestige jobs and to keep them from predominantly male jobs like groundskeep­ing. 
But I've got a major test coming up so I'll tell you about it rather than study. And ifl tell you about it I can fill space, too (since that is the ultimate goal ofthis daily column.) OK, so English major aren't going to become president of IBM, so what? Kubla Khan never took a business_course (and he was in as corse a business as 
I The Absurd~~ 
Design Editor .............. Uncle Ryan Remus Design Assistants ............... Auntie Monica 
Sweater Layout Staff. .................... Lisa the Cougher Diane the Dish Typesetter ............................. A Large Vanian Neu•s Editor......·..................... Amelia Pooch Copy Editor ........................... Darvon Ludes Features Layout ..........Some drugged-out liberal Sports Copy Editor........ Cabbage-brained jock Typist .......................................... Lydia Lunch 

Wendy 0. Williams Taste· Tester ................................. Mama Cass Systems Control ................... More Vanians Proofreader ............................... Ray Charles NDDayEdltor ............................ A pre-med SMC Day Editor ................... His wife·to·be Ad Design.......... Overly commercial jerks Photographer ..................................... Animal Guest Appearances ........... The ailing ENE Springtime for Hitler Some sort ofT} A Rusty creature 
The Absurder (CHAOS 321 123) is published once a year if we feel like it. and there ·s nothing you can do about it. The Absurder is published by a motley crew chosen from among the night people in the area. Copies may be purchased for small sexual favors or lewd public displays. -write The Absurder if you can find the address. 
The Absurder is a member of the Dissociated Press. no starch please. Blow dry. 



It tokes four years to get a college degree. How long will it toke you to get a good job? 
If you haven't settled on a company or corporation yet, why not get your executive career off to a flying start as a pilot or navigator In the United States Air Force? it's the finest flight pro­gram in the world, the pay is excellent, and you'll enjoy the prestige that goes with the silver wings of an Air Force pilot or navigator. 
It's one of the finest opportunities in the notion. And a great place to gain executive experience with million dollar respon­sibility. Find out today about the Air Force flight program. Con­
tact MSqt. Stanley Steward 219-233-4747 Collect 
A great way of life. 
I'll never know. Turning to 

the efficiency of local stu­dent politics...(DELETED 6 WORDS ON STUDENT POLITICS, Fred.) Which can certainly drive you to drink, like Ted Kennedy. 
In regard to alcohol abuse, the administration has drafted a new policy to keep tabs on all self or alcohol abusive students. For this policy the administration has recieved many boos, most of them pint-sized. Though the program is a shot in the dark, the adminstration has refusedto elaborate on their under the table method of implementation. When they were blitzed with ques­tions on the subject they chose to take the fifth. 
And that's sick! 

Absurder Notes 
-------,

I The Absurder is an annual publication ofThe Ob­
server published on April Fool's Day for and about 
fools. Any resemblance to any person living or dead, 
their writing style, intellect or general frame of 
reference, while it may appear to parody someone 
real or something, is purely coincidental. 
GET YOUR CAREER OFF TO A FLYING START 









Toda~========================;:::::::=:===~ 
Feature·z 
SMC chicks and dogbones 
8
49ojn;adj; lcio snngSEX SEX SEX kdjaka jiwHdcc rghkm;jd siu9!!sa9 SMC CHICKS & MILKBONESH dsd;l)w qxddumdumdcdumded HATE WET GRAS· Sdlfo ickyicky yukfoo poo blah sniggSTOP TUGGING, GRIFF, I'M HURRYING! mkda;ai dw7mcm; klioaeo 


9ejmjwk pw9w798w 99jqe SORRY, LADY,I THOUGHT YOU WERE A TREE zzzzzzzzzzzz zzmuguf­fu mderprr rrrruffsnort diowkjdc TAKE MY PRIEST .•. PLEASE!kj ugawugg chugalug whccz shrcc pwoofommc jjdjwga gaaib blew ncrk WHArs THIS TALK ABOUT 'SECONDUS?' I'M NO. lj iujdjcoocoocachook dijkdnd kjiue RallO jdkjddkoiw wowhazzamatterw ghsfgfnghs e6yugds jhwoooooooff! jkjfuddat·dud BEITER FIRE HYDRANTS IN NEW YORK, MAN, BUM ME OUI'kjdu Hckxfacxlax 

Mister Rogers gets a review 
By BONZO D. BAND 
Features Staff Writer 
I 
picked up a real gerr: the other day, just on a hunch ­the firsl album from that notorious New Waver, Mis­ter Rogers, entitled M lster Rogers Greatest Hits. There arc some weak spots here, but Rogers can ea~ily smooth them out and advance to stardom. 
Agood example ofthis is the first cut, "Let's Learn the 
Alphabet." Rogers, a solo act with sparse backing, uses 
the prctt"nse ofteaching children the alphabet to 
symbolize the Inherent oppression ofthe capitalist 
educational system, and he mocks this system with 
facetious remarks such as "Let's try it again," or"Do you 
know your ABC's?" Rogers utilizes repetition cxccllcnt­
ly to show the brutal brainwashing tactics used by the 
ruling bourgeoisie In today's society. 
Rogers apparently plays all the instruments as well as handling the production, arranging and engineering of the show, and I.e docs so with surprising adeptness. Of­ten he uses only a piano for instrumental backing, playing only two or three different chords to emphasize the Importance ofhis lyrical statements. Many times, Rogers uses a short bell tone at the conclusion ofhis songs ao; a sarcastic analogy to-the cracked "Liberty Bell," which, significantly, no longer rings. 
Rogers' production shines through particularly on the anthemk "Clean Your Room," a call to arms for revolutionaries everywhere. His use ofonly an oc­ca~lonal, solitary C7 or G chord on the piano reinforces tht· Dylan-csquc understatement of the song. Witness these Inciting lyrics, clearly influenced by Machiavel­lian theory: 
Putyour toys away 
Beforeyou go out to play 
/Jon 't forget to makeyour bed 
just /Ike yourMommy said. These arc brutal, incisive insights into a society which he dt·cms unfairly repressed by the wealthy controllers of government 

The Absurder 
Simolarity 
-ntAT WA.S MIKE TAAT .)U9" CAL.lEP. l-IE '!A'("S l-IE CAN'T 170 THE: STKIP I017A"'' 
~ll I ... S'T~l> OF Tllli 
U'U~L WE. 1'1\0U<O"T VIE 
\1400L.p $OME. TJIIM6 


John I-Iinkley 


Campus 

DID YOU (VER WONDER WHY 
COME. s-ACK A6AIIJ TOMORROW 




MIKE DOSUI'T PUT AN'r FAT.Uc.LY IN I-llS CDMIC '? 
juwj9cpew jdfjciiiuwmorcgonzo w8fr9q3 dhj98-­w8yw Hjikjk/ 39 21ifc'sruffjkd kjcui aknjh pcppcr­mintsquarcsuhi oiwoieow DO THE DOG!,andwhatabout &83Hq39q iaHw wushc forinstancc ul)rwoij fritz&grethchenj9iu cjkmd;dakdj kdjfkjk6 n,/1\JUST CUZIIE'S CELIBATE...djc 9wjdxo­ooi o9iokcfooor tiii998 3rijr9 scongrats 989qjkm89 u9r80 ci0su8 wjd8u88 himbpcgbcrn drcemonicrinkcl huckdisuc iji8u939 289 ALRIGHT, AN OBSERVER! AND WE KNOW JUST WHAT THEY'RE GOOD FOR.. DIDN'T KNOW I HAD IT IN ME jkdoiwcoiw dowi40 ioiioijk jid889q jdoi8-8-doiwc u99eu 9cou S93S498 38dr bS2'suod8cO wci8080 S9d008S 43oioi9 qq9q9i asnorsss ssgigglczz kiwH bcbopdcbopCHECK OUT THAT TERRIER paaaannnnnnnnt arrrgh rrrrrruff fooooooeeerrrrr kjdiu uam89 ckdfk gidkk dumdcd­dumt ralala fiddle deedcc whoppce; lalalak scoobydo cisboomba hiauw4 jkoiw rq21k4 id0-4q388 (aai74249934?) j833k & 739 &crk hubaubba rhubarbd 9u499 dokoic-5670/6AND THEY CALL IT PUPPY LUST ... kd4 S8kj!a,/ 8459 nsnsdneer rigglc tcchcc andal lathat 787qijk fafwSEX AND DRUGS AND ROCK AND ROLL, BABYikH (9t0Soiok) opi!! kandthenshc bluffdfj 84pq88 283jj kjulo7l LIFE IS A BITCH kjfot8 qioicci okoakaSIGH ... .ANOTHER DOG DAY AFTERNOON. 
~,ister Rogers
The poverty­

stricken ghet­
~,.-;··;@},_.Greatest

tos are the 
-~-···" !''·,"'·, H't Ill
target of 
c. ··s~~·-Jd.l.;>;-,. I s... 
Rogers' razor 
wit on "Going 
to the Grocery 


'7~.·.r~_·ff'_
~ ·:featuring the 

Store with 
-:~. _;·~jr,~ hit single: 

Mommy." Here 
~{il."':.rz~,:;:.~ .. 'Potty
he attacks the 
\·· \ ;-:~,~....~ Training'

welfare state as a result ofig­norant urban growth development programs on the part of the Keynesian economic planners who have determined our fiscal direction since the inception of the New Deal -his oblique references to irresponsible deficit spending and outlandish Federal monetary policies arc unmistakable in the lines: 
Mommy says 'Stay nearby here' 
You can help her whenevershe stoops 
Maybe ifyou're a good little helper 
She'll letyou buy a box ofFroot Loops. 
The stark analogies there are almost frightening. 
You can see the anger contained on the rest ofthe al­bum by simply perusing the titles: "Potty Training," "How to Use Your Fork," "Don't Hit Baby Brother," and "Let's Learn Integral Calculus Functions as X Ap­proaches Negative Infinity." 
From all reports, Rogers' stage show is a killer with short but solid and hard-hitting cries for insurrection and revolt. Sources say Rogers also produces an obscure television program aired only at strange hours ofthe morning on Public Television. Catch this angry rocker before he hits the big time. 
Bonzo D. Hand Is a general program majorfrom Upper Crust, N.Y. He is currently N/J chapterpresident ofthe Sesame Street Punk Club. 
• 
t2: 15 p.m. -kntil mao;s; also many other nifty beans like green ones, wax ones and some of those jelly ont•s too. huddle ktt(;hcn. 

• 
I p.m. -lecture; "handling drinks in restaurants," l'arol burnett, kofc hall. 

• 
3 p.m. -seminar; "prc:dicting how much he's worth," smc marralgc week, regina hall. 

•6 
p.m. -tryouts; dancing irish auditions, corby hall. 

•7 
p.m. -film; "altered states" carrot hall ( nd ). 



April Fools Day, l 981 -page 7 





Editorials 
Suffer Needlessly 
(Your name here) 
The Observer not only invites 
you to write letters to the 
editorials page, we invite you to 
write your very own unsolicited 
editorial. To do this, all you need 
is a pet social concern, and you 

too can be a star! Have fun as you fill in the blanks, submit your text, and cross your fingers. 
The rickety old houses of and the village peasants were a sight for my middle class bot•rgeois eyes to be­hold when I took a trip with---------­

to in______ People were living in deplorable circumstances and I, in my eth­nocentric naivete, was still wearing my docksiders and . There were plenty of docks to side in , but I soon learned the peasants did not understand the true meaning of my symbolic clothing: you see, -----is another country with another way of looking at things, their perception is so dif­ferent than ours, and this is what I learned most from my stay in 
I remember what my professor, Dr. ___, said in class about foreigners. He said It has always stayed with me. 
He also told us that we, Americans, us, we are only a small portion of the world, some­thing like__percent, I think, and we consume most all t~e 
world's ______ resources, like__ percent, I'm pretty sure. That means that all those 
miserable ______ peasants in who don't have cars or TVs or_ don't have those things because of us. Us! I guess ·that was the hardest thing I had in getting used to 10 No-TVs, no department stores nothing to do, really, except stare at these poor people who we have imperialisti­cally downtrodden. I looked at these people as I took off 
my sweater (it was hot down there, too) and my jeans and donned the native garb of loin cloth and lllOC" cassins. I said to myself: 
look-----· look at what 
your parents arc responsible for 
doing, those dirty, cap-italis­
tic ! These people arc 
living like people from the other 
side of the track, and its all be­
cause of people lil\c my parents 
and everyone else in my horne 
town of Illinois, a 
Chicago suburb 
I sweated and thought the whole time I was there. I didn't eat one or drink one . I thought about life, death, God, the White Sox. 
and riding a horse at 

the age of three. I almost lost 
my airlines ticket 
for the night back horne once, and 
I was very scared. And I thought 
about what it would be like if I had 
to live here forever or 
even It was very 
scary and I grew up a lot. 
It was during that time that I had my calling. Like Fr. says, everyone has a calling for different careers, and it was during my trip to that I realized God wanted me to be an accountant 
(with , a big eight firm). I had not really known before if I really wanted to do it, but one look at all those miserable peasants and I just knew I could help out best by learning how to shift the flow of money away from people like the big corporations and over to the people like Manuel, one of the village peasants who I talked to from . I was afarid to talk with Manuel at tirst because he smelled, but I vowed to him that onr day I would get him and his countrymen enough money to buy deodorant so that he could smell like everyone else from my home town of , Il­
linois. 
Even though I only spent a day and a half in , I feel it was the most valuable ex­perience of my life. I learned what it means to be a good American with clean thoughts and what it meant to he a had American who doesn't think about these things. I learned new people to pray for in church. I gained a new experience that I can put on a resume. And most of all, like from the movie I learned that "there's no place like horne." 


-------c-~--------------------------------------­
.( 
/ 

The Absurder has discovered the football team's surprise for next year's USC game. In an effort to attain the lackluster image ofthe Dulline years, Coach Cheny Fust will dress the team as gayster ballerinas. It is hoped the Trojans will be unable to contain the mad rush ofwhite. (photo by Name withheld) 
• Moose 

by The Absurder and sweaty, smelly jocks 
Bruce Springsteen has nothing to do with spons. We just figured that a lot of people would read this particular brief if we put his naine at the beginning. Don't tell us we don't know how to attract readers. 
Intramural mud wrestling gets underway next week. Defending champions "Dirty Dining Hall Workers" are the favorites to win once again. A strong challenge is expected, however, from the "Grubby Groundscrewmen". 
The Chicago White Sox have announced that Soupey Sales has been acquired from Sha-Na-Na for loose change and an old uniform to be named later. Sales, whose career has faded con­siderably in the last few years, is expected to liven up the somber Chicago bullpen. 
Roger Parent also has nothing to do with sports. See, we caught you again. But Roger sure does have a way of ruining student social life, much of which is tied to football weekends and the like. 
Hoosier Hysteria broke loose last week when many In­diana natives discovered that the Dodgers and the Giants had moved to California. "I was sure that the Giants were coming to Kokomo," said D. Korne Stalk, who described himself as an avid fan. The teams' switchboards were jammed with calls, mostly from Muncie. "I can't believe you guys went to California when you could have lived and played in a scenic town like Valparaiso," said one irate fan. "I hope the whole state drops intg_the ocean." 

/ 

April Fools Day, 1981 -page 8 

Ifs a whole new ballgame onjokeK/ineField. Ahhh, spring-when a young man'sfancy turns to thoughts offlying balls and playful romps through pleasant meadows in strange clothes. (photo by Wanda lust) 
Coldcuts 

Hack announcers blast Digger 

continuedfrom page 5 
until I sit down at my terminal and start typing, although I have a general idea of the direction I want the story to take. 
,\1y ideas? They come from many sources, from Star Wars to speeding tickets. The Trumbullian Regulator is a speed trap in Trumbull County, Ohio, where my car was ticketed over spring break. I just gave the incident a fairy tale setting and some evibo1.1nding names, and I had a "moose epic," as you call it. 
Q: You borr()U' from real life to create moose epics and you insist on publishing the names of moose joke contributors, yet you are very careful to remain anonymous yo"ur~elf and to differentiate be­tween your moods and ideas and those of Control. Why are you so reluctant to let your readers know 
-whoyou are? 
A: There are two reasons. The first ­is that I can have more fun by remaining anonymous. Readers can talk about me and wonder what sort of person would sit around all day thinking up moose jokes and epics. 
Or ifl find out one of my old profes­sors is mentioning Moose Control in his classes, I can attach a little note to my joke to tell him 1 know he is reading my jokes. That makes everyone all the more curious ­how does Moose Control know so 
much -that sort of thing. So I 
remain anonymous. 

Q: And whafs the second reason? 
A: Oh, yes, the second reason. I'm a little hesitant to speak of it, be­cause it's more personal in nature. The truth is that I separate myself from Moose Control because he is a ueation of loneliness. He is an im­aginary character whose attitudes and thoughts I continually create; a second personality generated by my own mind to keep me company: 
1a111 something of a loner. I don't make friends easily, and so I create these characters to occupy my time. It takes my mind offthe emptiness of my life. 
The first such character I ever created was a puppet whose name derived from my ex-boss's first name and from "koala bear," which is the animal the puppet is. His name is Woody Kaybar. 
By Skippy DaGardener 
Sports Hack 

College basketball announcers are becoming increasingly critical of the coaching tactics used by Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps. 
"That guy is on a big ego trip," says Lefty Dribble, an announcer from somewhere in Maryland. "He should be making sure there arc enough cold cuts in the press room, and not worry so much about strategies and stuff." 
Other announcers are even more critical of Phelps' success. 
"I'm sick and tired of Digger and all that technical junk," says Willie Peaker, an announcer known for his love for the obviously superior ABC style of basketball. "I mean, who cares about the box and lunch defense? Digger is just trying to win ballgames, and announcers are fed up with it." 
"It's easy to coach a game from the bench," says Peakcr. "Phelps should 
. 

concentrate more on making the games close so that us announcers sound better. Who wants to watch him beat a team by 18 points? The fans would much rather listen to the way I scored four points in a junior high school game than see Notre Dame destroy UCLA." 
Oscar Meyer, the beloved coach of DePete, and a dead-ringer for Gradpa Munster, defended his col­league. 
"I think Digger has really spiffy suits," says Meyer. "I tried to get my wife to put patches on my elbows, but it bothered my psoriasis." 
AI McChoir, a sports announcer that a whole bunch of people have heard of, put the Phelps controversy in perspective. 
"Digger wins a lot, but so do other 
coaches," McChoir said. "Digger just 
does it without thinking about us. If 
it wasn't for us, people would have 
to watch the game without sound. 
They could never learn that I was 
once on aQ aircraft carrier, or that I was one ofthe best guys in the world at getting away with stuff." 
McChoir, who coached Mil­waukee State Bandleaders College to the city Music School Champion­ship in 1975, says that he was a lot more considerate to announcers. 
"Do you think I got this job by being unthinking? No way, baby. I was nice to a lot of TV and radio ex­ecutives_in my day." 
Phelps valiantly defended himself when informed ofthe criticism. 
"Big deal," said the 40-ycar-old Irish coach. "My father is an under­taker, and he never had to be nice to his clients. Why should I kow-tow to a bunch ofannouncers?" 
"All they do is make ex-players sounnd more illiterate than they really arc. You call that someone deserving of respect?" 
"I plan to keep winning, then someday I want to replace Merv 
Griffin." 

• • • Kansas 
continuedfrom page5 

f\ccording to Shamley, Kansas ~ureau of Commerce has a slogan, 'See Kansas Up Close." "It has a ring 
o it," Shamley said,"and it looks ~ood on buttons." Mummery agrees with Shamley. ~he slogan "does look good on but­
ons," Mummery sai~. The Travel ~napshot Club has 'buttons from many spots, but likes the Kansas but­ton more than almost any other, he said. "It always reminds us of the Kansas adventure." 
The club has visited most of the places Trailways services in the Mid­west. Their annual trips are often at­tended by as many as two dozen members. This year's trip took al­most a half dozen more than that. "We are real honored by that," Shamley said. 
"It was our pleasure," Mummery said. "We liked it. Lots." 
But where will these zany fun­seekers go ifnot Kansas? No one is to say -except perhaps for Lionel Bentley, a retired Air Force general living near Utica, NY. "I've been keeping tabs on the Travel Snapshot Club, if that really is there name. They bus to Kansas, Nebraska, Iowa, and Basil, South Dakota. It's not hard to see that they are not after just snapshots," the general said. "And stop using 'said' so damn much. Nuts, I wet them." 
The Air Force was good to him, but he really wanted to play hockey. Shamley played hockey. Mummery played hockey. Meiner didn't play hockey, but he boxed, which is close enough. Besides, he is missing a tooth. All my life it was warm. No ice. I grew to hate it. I once put my cat in the freezer. When we came home, my mother called to me. I knew what she was to say. No mat­ter. I cried. She comforted me. She forgave me. I had what every child should have. Revenge. But, damn, I never had hockey. 
So I went to Kansas. I contracted polio. I ran to my doctor and cried. He said it was nothing to get bent out of shape about. And I took his snapshot which rests in my freezer still. Next to the cat. 
I can sing probably an octave and 

a half. I shall have vengence and my 
cat back again. I shall walk again. I shall skate. No more bus. No more o this dull dulldulldull tedious damn snapshot shotting and boring bus people who get their kicks out of damn Midwestern states in two dimensionaly black and white or Polaroid color film my eyes are sick to death already for pete's sake. 
Still I'm alright. They don't kno~ that. But I, I will have them mine by more than half an octave on the ice robed in glory and hockey's splen did jersey they will say they know I 
am 

back in Kansas taking photos, snapshots and Polaroid pictures with my friends in the Travel Snap­shot Club. It is fun. "It is fun," Mum­mery said. ·~we plan to yisit Kansas again next year." 
There will be complimentary but­tons waiting for the club upon theit return visit next year, according to Shamley. Kansas appreciates the boom in business. Shamley said, "We are glad that people like the Trave Snapshot Club are ready to see Kansas up close." 
. 


Wednesday, April 1, 1981 -page



Editorials 

Murday has work 

The show that never ends 

£liT1VEHt.ARIJ IT'S NOT 7JIIiT UNCOMA10N. M4NY 
PffOPL£ JliSr1MAKIN/J fF 7T?IP MttJfANISM. 
\ 


/rE,700. I'M 
11014/I?QKtWT/C. JlET6LAP rr 
I feeL UKE Df/JN'T HAPPEN 
AN IIMJCENT P/Hit& I JU4S 


cut out for hiin 
Caught between student apathy and Administative stubborness, the Student Body President is at times forced to pursue the goals of his office with minimal cooperation from either side. In spite of these obst;,dcs, the administration of SBP Paul Riehle has been ef­fective in dealing with the two most pressing issues facing students: the effective communication of student concerns to the Administra­tion and the establishment of social outlets on-campus. These goals arc less dramatic than those of previous administrations, but Riehle ha~ also enjoyed more than" subtle successes." 
The highlight of Riehle's administration was the establishment of 
the Student Senate and restructuring of the constitution of Campus 
Life Council. Inability to clearly represent student views and con­
cerns to the Administration is the greatest obstacle to the impro\ling 
the 4uality of student life, or so the Administration .tells us. While 
both bodies arc only advisory in nature, they provide a structure 
within which the student voice will be treated with greater respect than in the past. Specilic accomplishments of the Senate include the restructuring of the C LC, and less signilicantly the establishment of the c~cort service and rollback of vending machine prices. These are not earth-shattering events, but they do indicate the potential ef­fectiveness of the Senate as a forum for student concerns. 
The Riehle administration has also linally convinced both the University administration that there is a desperate need for more social outlets on campus. After Vice-President. of Student Affairs Fr. John Van Wolvlear rejected plans for a coffeehouse on campus, Riehle and his executive coordinator, incoming SBP Don Murday, took the plan before the Board of Trustees. Impressed by their proposal, the trustees appropriated an initial $30,000 for Chautau­ljUa, the new coffchouse in Larortunc Student Center. This first 
phase of the Chautau4ua is the lirst real step in providing some sort 
of alternative to the bars for social outlet. 
Murday, whose one-year term begins today has his work cut out 
for him. Some foundations have been laid for him, but the work is 
nowhere near completion. Murday must still deal with the imminent 
housing lottery and continued development ofChautau4ua. The off­
campus crime problem is still there after laying dormant during the 
winter. He must be able to work with the CLC, a task which has not 
been easy in the past. His experience in dealing with the Administra­
tion on Chautau4ua and other proposals may give him an added 
measure of respect over past administrations. But, as with past ad­
ministrations, he may find that that respect is not always enough. 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
I /(}lJJjffS£Ur15 711/fTtf/AY. 
Well, I had planned once again 
to. write abo.ut Ro.nald Reagan this 
week, but not exactly like this. It 
is more than ironic that Monday's 
assassination attempt would 
serve as the stimulus for another 
"liberal" article, but it only goes 
to show that what often is called 
idealistic carping is often neces­
sary, and unfortunately, 
"cynical" predictions and 
forecasts often come painfully 
true. So now, courtesy of John 
Hinckley, it is again time for an­
other handgun article, another 
needless violence article, another 
apathy article, and another article on the state of the American soul. Welcome back my friends, to the show that never ends. 

Chalk up another handgun "tragedy." This one involved the president of the United States, so perhaps it was a little more tragic than most, but it just illustrates the problem of handguns in this country. A handgun was the only lethal weapon that Hinckley could have smuggled close enough to the Reagan party in or­der to achieve his goal; he could not have come close enough to the president with a knife, and a rifle would have been much too conspicuous. It will be very interesting to hear what the NRA and other such organizations will have to say now, because al­though Hinckley wreaked terrible havoc with a .22 caliber pistol, there would be no survivors if he had used a .3H, or a .44. How many more people, and not just presidents and rock stars, but the thousands of other Americans who arc killed each year with handguns, must die before some step is taken to alleviate this problem?! 
Two weeks ago both Time and Newsweek ran cover stories on the epidemic of violent crime in 
America. After I read these ar­ticles I had, to be completely honest, a very hard time going to sleep. I don't know if crime is any more rampant now than it was ten or twenty years ago, or if we are just more aware ofit as it becomes more random and seeps into seg­ments of society that were relatively worry-free, but it does seem to be slowly taking over the country and turning it into a fear­ful armed camp. And incidents like Monday's will only serve to fuel the paranoia unless some radical solutions arc proposed and ac·tcd upon. But we must con­sideF the flipside of increased pressure on crime and violence­repression-which could lead to the violation ofcivil rights. I don't know what will be the correct balance, yet we must become more aware of what is going on or we will be left with the conse­4uences, a police slate that will have to protect the citizens from thcmsel ves by depri val of rights. That is why I am so anti-handgun; if we don't take away the right to own handguns, we may have to give up much more crucial rights in the future. I think the trade-off is worth it. 
---.--"=-----·--·-·-·_-Ib_e-=-,=0.L---~ :el-~--~~=
... __ 
_ _ '~{==V,I 
t~oxQ. Notre Dame, ifo: 4C•5)(> 

The Ob~t'rt.Jer is an l!ldcpeudt·nt 11\""spaJ.>er ~~ubll~htd b; the :,tu~knt'o :·t_ the Universtry of Notre Darn~ dt.: Lac and Satn! Marys Collq,;e It J,>es 0()< neces~anL reflect the !:lolities uf the Jdminisrrarion ol ellhrr tnsttruuon. The llt"W" ts n·ported as au urately and as obJccrivelr as possible. Editorials represerll the opmii>rl of .I ma1omy of the F.dttonal Board Commentanes, Optnion ., and. letters a1c the,view.., of their authors. Column space ts avatlablc to all m<·mbers ol rhe wmmurw,., and the free expression of varying opmions on campus, through krrerc;. t:'> encouraged. 
And now the truly American in­stitution of assassination. Whet­her you're arguing with some stranger about the Cubs and the Cardinals in a tavern or you dis­agree with the president of the United States on national policy, if he won't see it your way, you shoot him. Assassination is as American as apple pie and all that other good stuff. Other countries have had leaders killed, but in the last 20 years the practice has become peculiarly American, where more leaders have" been fired upon than any other nation, civilized or otherwise. Look at the list one more time: John Ken­nedy. Malcolm X. Martin Luther King, Robert Kennedy, George Wallace, and Ronald Reagan, with the several attempts on Gerald Ford and certain senators. Sounds more like one of those 
banana republics we are always 
trying to "keep safe for 
democracy." 
"This IS the A me ric an mindset, the 'cowboy men­tality' that I think breeds a nation ofas­sassins.'' 
I wish I knew what causes this insanity. The American, way of life, from frontier days onward, is incredibly selfish and uncon­cerned with that which gets in the way of what individuals and groups want. Note "Manifest Destiny" and the brutal treatment of the Indians, the deprivation of 
an entire race's rights and dignity in slavery, and to this day, the steely determinatiun to run the world, whatever the cost. This is the American mindset, the "cowboy" mentality that I think breeds a nation of assassins. Accuse me of hyperbole If you will, but I have seen one too many videotapes of men lying in pools of blood, real blood.. 
Perhaps it is these images of as­sassinations that disturb me the most. I have very painful memories of the King and R F K assassinations; when King was shot, that is my first memory of being scared, really scared, and when Kennedy was shot it was the first time I remember seeing my mother cry. Now I have an­other image to remember, that of the face of James Brady contorted in the most excruciating pain I think I have ever seen as people tried to lift him, with some Secret Service agent pressing a handker­chief to his head in an attempt to stop the bleeding. Then" later, the shot of Brady on the ground with his legs twitching uncontrollably, and five or ten feet away, agent Tim McCarthy lying in a pool of blood clutching his guts. And 
Editor·in·Chlef.........................................}ohn McGrath M · . . T J k 11 
anagmg Editor ...................................... om ac rna lixecuttr'e News Editor ..............................Lynne Daley 
News lidltor.............................................Tim Verccllolli 
News Edttor..................................................]ohn Higgins Senior Copy Editor ........................ Mary Fran Callahan Sports Editor .........................................Michael Ortman Features Edltor..........................................Rick Hermida 

Anthony Walton 
Editorials Writer 
Outside Wednesday 
there was another n1an hit, the 
Washington police officer who 
was not even in the picture. 
Yes, all this is gruesome, but it 

is real, and it happened. In the 
excitement over the president. 
and then the; relief over the. relative mildness of his wottnds. the terrible reality and the potcn­ti;ll of what might have been were lost. There is something e'pecial­ly insidious about assassination. because it affel'ls and affront' the nation as a whole, and it hopeless­ly divides it. There is no ncl'd of going into the effects of the Ken­nedy llnd King assassinations on the country. And it almost hap­pened again. 
There is one more a'pect of this that is 4uite di,turhing also. That is the general nonl·halance of the country concerning the whole incident. No one seemed all that bothered by it. I think it has to do with both the jaded weariness of the populace and the soporilic seduction of television. Maybe we have seen too many wars and shootings on television, and maybe we feel like there isn't very much we can do anymore to affect the 4uality of our lives, but it seemed to me that most people were treating the assassination at­tempt as if it were another bad made-for-TY movie. I don't think I fully realized what had hap­pened until I saw that closeup d Brady's face. But we have to ac­cept the reality of this inl·ident and try to do something ahout it, or it will happen again. You would think that TV would humanize us, and make us more aware of the 
horrible truth, because it brings the truth right into our living rooms, and more importantly, our minds, hut it seems in reality just to make it seem like a fairy talc or some had dream. I kn11w that after seeing the face of James Brady, something I will he seeing for a long time, I don't ever want to sec another gun as long as I live. 
There is something brutally disorienting about sitting in a comfortable room. drinking beer, and watching the NCAA title game, then seeing it interrupted by a news bulletin featuring an image of a man with a bullet through his hl·ad. Seeing three men lying in pools of blood 4UCs­tions the comfort of throwing fris­bees on the 4uad and taking walks on pleasant spring evening,. 
I don't know. maybe I'm overreacting, or mayhe I'm a "hlceding heart liberal," hut the president ·of the United States was almost killed on Monday. and whether you love him or hate hi' guts. that, my friends, i' very S<ld. 
Anthony Walton i.l' a junior from Batal'ia, Ill. Out,ide Wed­
nesday appt•ar.l' ••·eekly II/I the 
Editorial.\· paxt'. 



Editorial Boardand D~::::,::!,~anag~::Aww•<•~> 
\MC News Editor ....................Cathy Domanico 
Photo lidltor ................... .. .....John Macor 
Business Manager 
.............. Rit'h Coppola 

Controller....... .................. . 
. ................ ,Joe Mulflur Adt,erlisinR ManaRer .. . .................. Mark Ellis Prruluction Manager .. . ........ Ryan Ver lkrkmoes Circulation Manager .. .. ..........Tom Mal'l.l·nnan 
............._ ..._..____, ·&~~uwr~.~.~~~~~·~~~~~ rr:s.::~·~·--·---·--,-··-~~~~~.!"'*"'::U~...'?':::':"'-"~·
__"\'!!1'
~~....~~~..;.. •.,..~~~..;,"..·~~;.;r-;t~~.;.;....,1w~,..-.;.--.-.o~M ...-~--·---~-·--·--...---..~··-···----·~:.::;:::::::.. 
---··--·-----, ...
-· 
-·~ 
The Observer 



T0 da~====================W=ed=n=e=sd=a=y=,A=p=r=il=l=,=19=8=1==p=a=ge=10 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
~j)(),-tSc~==~==i=~~=S========~======================W=e=d=n=es=d=ay='=Ap=r=il=1=,1=9=8=1==p=a=g=e:311
bv The Ohrt'rr•t•r and The Arruuatcd Pnrr 
ABookstore Basketball meetingwill be held 
next friday (April 3) in the Library Auditorium at 6 p.m. Rules and schedules will be distributed at that time. One representative for each team is required at the meeting. AI t I waiting list teams that were ad­mitted into the tournament must bring their S2 at this time. First round games begin Monday, April6. 
Saturday's football practice will be open to the 
public. It is the only spring session that will be open. Coach Gerry Faust asks only that parents ketp control of small children for their protection. The session begins at I:30 p.m. All spring practices arc open to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students with !D's, as well as to faculty members with pa~ses obtained through the football office. 
Tony Anderson convc:-rted a three-point play with 28 seconds left in the game to give Holy Cross a 4S-44 victory overGrace lao;t night in the men's interhall basketball semifinals. The Hogs will face two-time defc:-nding champion Howard Hall tonight at 7 in the ACC pit. Holy Cross suffered an earlier loss to Grace in the double­elimination tourney. The Hogs must defeat unbeaten Howard tonight to force a second game tomorrow ( 7 p.m. in the ACC pit) or the title will return to the South Quad hoopsters for the third consecutive ye;~~. Should there be a second game, interhall spokesman Lee Ma .fred promises this will be the final game ofthe already lengthened 
basketball season. 
• • • Faust 

continuedfrom page 12 
wearing a blue Notre Dame uniform. 
"With the kind of schedule that 

Notre Dame has, you have to have 
four blue-chippers on the squad," 
Faust claims. "You hope that none of 
your players ever goes down, hut 
you have to he prepared just in 
case." 
Karcher's position within the quanerback pecking order will not he estallllshed until the fall. Lichten­berg explains that he will have to earn a spot just as the other passers must. 
A wt·alth of talented quarterbacks such a~ the one that Notre Dame is enjoying inevitably leads to transfer rumors. Faust was emphatic in ·denying them. 
"Yes, I've heard t:he rumors," he 
says. "The only way I C'\n respond is 
to say that Blair's moth.:r called me 
to say that he loves it here and that 
the rumors were untrue. As far as 
Scott (Grooms) is concerned, he did 
a great job of recruiting for us, anu I 
don't think he'd have done that if he 
didn't really love Notre Dame." 

So the stage is set, and each day of 
practice is another step toward a 
resolution. But nothing is carved in 
stone, even with Gerry Faust. 

"Hey, If we have to make adjust­ments after the season starts we're not going to be afraid to make them," he confesses. 
All ofwhich puts us hack at square one. 

Baseball opens home slate 
By DAVE IRWIN games. Sports Writer "We've suffered too many mental lapses which have caused physical 
Notre Dame's baseball team errors," first-year Irish coach Larry returns to what it hopes to be the Gallo said of the team's spring trip. more friendly confinds ofjake Kline "We've certainly lost too many Field today at I p.m. for a games in the late innings. This is a doubleheader against Indiana. very big week for us. We can really 
The Irish were 19-1 on their home make great strides toward a success­fidd last season en route to 29 vic­' ful season. We can't rush it, we need tories, a school record, against eight to take one game at a time." losses. Notre Dame, however, faced The Irish have had no problems at tough going in its 1981 spring trip the plate and currently boast a .300 started the Irish season with an 0-7-1 team batting average. This pa~t mark. Notre Dame now stands 4-9-1 weekend, the Irish lashed out 40 hits after winning four of its last six and scored 32 runs. 
Junior first baseman Henry Valen­zuela paces the Irish hitting attack with a .419 average. He was St'ven­for-14 this pa~t weekend. 
Although senior Mike Dcascy, who had lost only five games prior to this season, has yet to pkk up a win, Gallo has relied on a pair of sop­homores to take up the slack. Steve Whitmyer gave up a lead-off hit against Huntington over thc:­weekend and then tossed no-hit the rest ofthe way. He hao; not given up a 
run  in  his  la:.t  dght innings.  Bill  
Matre  owns  a  2.77  earned  run  
average:-.  

O'Sullivan 
continuedfrom page 12 
O'Sullivan deserves a great deal of credit himself for building such a strong team with only one scholar­ship. 
"I try to sell the idea ofcoming to Notre Dame and play for four years. Most schools with good programs can't offer that to a person. At other places, they have challenge matches, something I have been able to avoid so far," said the Irish coach. 
"Also, ao; we improve, it becomes easier to recruit -that's only natural," O'Sullivan continued. "We still can't attract the state high school champs from Texas and California, but the top prospects from Wisconsin or New Hampshire or Minnesota may he interested in Notre Dame." 
It appears O'Sullivan has done his homework. 
Of course, it appears O'Sullivan's enthusia~m can only aid in his quest to provide Notre Dame with its first NCAA tournament team since 1966 when the Irish finished elventh in the nation. 
"I feel my job is to keep the players interested and to motivate them. I must have total patience and perseverance with them. After all, I'm not the greatest analyst of a golf swing, but when it comes down to it, I'm the seventh man on this team." 
The Irish opened their spring dual match schedule yesterday against Tri-State on their Burke Memorial Golf Course with a .379-392 victory, despite high winds. Medalist Stoney Ferlman and Bob Horak carded 72 and 74, respectively, for first and third place finishes. Tim Sachck was fourth with a 7'i and Dave Morrman came in with a 78 in place ofinjured Bill McGuiness. 
This afternoon on the Burke Memorial, the Irish host Valparaiso University in their last home match ofthe spring. 
"I don't hdicve in duals," O'Sullivan said. "The only rt·al reason we have them is to give the team a chano· to break the course record (3'i9) set by my 1974 tt•am. It also gives the Blue team (the second six) a chance to tct· it up." 
The first major tournament (out of five) of the scao;on will lle April 4 in Muncie, Ind., with 20 Division ..j schools represented from the Big Ten and Mid-American conferences. Notre Dame is the top indepcndt·nt in the district. 
Consistent team finishes in the top three or four in the April tour­neys will determine Notre Dame's NCAA hopes in 19l'H. .. 
The future is indeed bright for Notre Dame golf. If the Irish can play up to their potential just five times, it is likely they will find themst'lvcs in the NCAA's. 

Classifieds  All c:l.issll•(•d .tcls must he re~·e•vecl by 4 45 p m two lfdyS pnor 10 the '!'>'>Hf' 111 whr~.:h rllf' .;ul rs run Thf! Observer of!tce will .te't:cpt ci<'ISSif•eds Mond,tv ri,HHtl)h Frrdii\ I 0 00 ,, m to 5 00 JJ m AU class•freds nwsl bt• plt·-l).tllf '":lwr rn pt•rstln or lhruugt\ the m,ul  
.ost at Semor Formal: One Cole-Haan For sale-pair of Jensen speakers in shoe box conlammg a pair of brown good shape-able to crank $125 Paul at NOTICES loafers and a tan toiletry k1t With the Ini­3331 tials TAB. m the hotel lobby on Sunday morning around noon. II you haveINSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS them. please call Tom at 1150. RewardRINGS $20-$85 OR MORE WE MAKE offered.HOUSE CALLS. 255·2402. ... ......... . TICKETS LOST A while cotton blazer, no but­A HOW TO BUY OR SELL THE BUSI­tons, satin lining. Possibly left at SMCNESS OPPORTUNITY" WORKSHOP Finder please call283-8663. I need 3 (that's three) graduation tick­May 2nd, Notre Dame Center for ets. (Yes. folks. il's starting already.) II Conltnulng Educ For reservatton call you can help me. call Scoop at 1772. 233-7200 FOR RENT Need EXTRA GRADUATION TIX badly­MORRISSEY LOAN FUND PLEASE call Mary Pat at 8091Semora can no longer apply. Last day lor underclassmen to apply IS Furnished 4 bedroom house tor next school year. close to campus. goodThrsday Apfll2 area. 277 ·3604 or 288-0955. WILL DO TYPING CALL 287-5162 ···················' ... .... ········ Summer houses and rooms, turntshed, ,, PERSONALS walk to campus. cheap rent. 277-3604FAAMWOAKEA WEEKI or288-0955FAAMWOAKEA WEEKI BUMPEASTICKEAFAAMWOAKEA WEEK! FOR RENT -UGL;; DUCKLING RENT~ (I) WHEN YOU SAY NOTRE DAME, A-CAR FROM $7.95 A DAY AND 7 YOU'VE SAID IT ALL"TYPING--Only $ 65 a page Call Dan. CENTS A MILE. PHONE 259-UGL Y (2) WHEN YOU SAY IRISH, YOU'VE 272·5549 FOR RESERVATIONS SAID IT ALL" ..\... $2 00 each. Send check or money or­OVERSEAS JOBS · Summer-year AVAILABLE NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2 der to: round Europe. S Amer, Australia. FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES. NEAR NO. IRISH" As1a All l1alds $500·$1200 monthly LEASE, DEPOSIT. 234-2626 PO BOX3364.S1ghtsee1ng Free mto Wr~te IJC. Box CHAPEL HILL, N.C. 27514 52·1N4, Corona Del Mar. Ca 92625 AVAILABLE SUMMER AND' NEXT SCHOOL YEAR, 1 AND 3 BEDROOM Vote Nanni TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN AT THE APARTMENTS 234-2626 OBSERVER. Just how ugly IS Jell Jellers? I QUITI!!!1!! SHIRLEY Jell Jefters 1s so ugly. he knows illFOR SALE Are you ready to be GOODE IS BAD. honest With yourself? FOR SALE Peavy 300 wall bass a~p GOODE IS BAD. Gay Students ol Notre Dame 15 1n spkr like new $325. x8549 GOODE IS BAD. Information I me Jim Goode lor UMOC. 232·8659 Computer Terminal(m1cro-term·~~d~·lWed & Thurs 10-12pm Act·1 A) w1lh Modem. $500. Call 272­You've seen better heads on pimples. 7613 J1m Goode lor UMOC Today is April Fool's Day. Remember Notre Dame's biggest tool. Jim GoodeLOST/FOUND l '--I_W_A_N_TE_D_______J lorUMOC . . . ........................ PLEASE g1ve me back my wallet II had Needed. A1de to N W Ch1cago lor SMC Student Act1v1ty Programmmgg1ven 11 a good home II was like a Child weekend ol April 3. Can leave 1n alter· Board !S now accepting applications to me II doesn't have any money m 11. noon. Call Mary Jul1e. 4 t -4376. tor the followtng chatrperson posJ­anyway (I'm not that stup1d ) ltust want tJons. my ID back Call John H1ggms at 1715 EASTER BAK FLY SOUTH ·FILM SERIES or 8553 or bring up to the OBSERVER ANYWHERE BETW. ATLANTA AND -TRADITIONAL ACTIVITIES WINTERHAVEN FLA FOR $140OilICe -SPEAKER SERIES ROUNDTRIP CALL 3005 OR 8171 -ENTERTAINMENT (CONCERTS) LOST. A pair ot blue sandals siZe 7 1·2 -RECREATION and TRAVEL at Pangborn SYA before break CALL Need flders to Columbus. OH . leav1ng -COFFEEHOUSEFfl., Apfll3. Call Jell 18034451. -GENERAL PUBLICITY ·PUBLICITY ARTIST A1de needed. ST. LOUIS wkend APRILLOST LARGE BROWN DRESS BOX IN -SAPB SECRETARY THE LOBBY OF THE CHICAGO MAR­3: call JIM 1145 -SAPS TREASURER RIOT SUNDAY AFTERNOON MARC' i APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE IN STU·IF YOU NEED AN EXTRA AOOMATE29 IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE Cf,LL DENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE, LEMANSTO LIVE OFF CAMPUS NEXT YEAR.277.3990 HALL and ARE DUE BY 9AM, APRIL 2.CALL ME: JIM. 277-3685 QUESTIONS? CALL MARY · 5754  FAAMWOAKER WEEK! FAAMWOAKEA WEEK! FAAMWOAKEA.WEEK! Moe. qUit wa1tmg 1111 the last n1ght to lind a dale Guys like you need at least two weeks to get a date! Hacker!! vote nannt jane-a, i have dec1ded agamst' gomg to uga next year. i have JOined the peace corps and they·re sendtng me to tanzania lor two years. i know thiS will be dilliclJII lor you, but we can talk about it when you come herem may (m 47 days). 1t's what i realty have to do. 1 hope you'll understand. w1th love always. 11m ps-April Fools! d1d i get ya? ATTENTION SMC FRESHMEN! Applications for ne~t year"s commts­stoners are available NOW at your hall's front desk We encourage EVERYONE to apply Gel mvolved with the Class ol'84! ATTENTION AVAILABLE FEMALES: For a good t1me and cheap thrill call STEVE FINNO m Flanner. (Hurry, he's desperate 'I JUNIOR ADVISORY COUNCIL MEETING: TUESDAY, 7 PM. WALSH HALL! LET'S HAVE 100 PERCENT AT· TENDANCE PLEASE BAING ANY NAMES OF JUNIORS INTERESTED IN PERFORMING AT THE NAZZ AND THE LENGTH OF THEIR ACT HELP DID YOU HAPPEN TO PICKUP A LARGE BROWN DRESS BOX IN THE LOBBY OF THE CHICAGO MARRIOTT ON SUNDAY AFTERNOON DURING CHECK-OUT IF SO PLEASE CALL BUFFY, 277-3990 IT CONTAINS MY FORMAL. HEY 5-CI TOM, SCOTT. BILL. BRIAN. BOB, TOM, and espec1ally PINA. Good luck on MCAT• Saturday. You· II do a whale ol a 1ob! Love ya. Kathy hey shirley, when are the paychecks gomg to be m? everybody vote nann• flck tracanna 1s going to be 0.005 quality pomts short!  SMC SENIORS! FREE CHAMPAGNE! SMC Senior Brunch IIX still available. You can still piCk up IIX tor Semor Stop 1n at the alumnae oll1ce. the of11ce Brunch. Go lor it. •n LeMans closest to the library ex11 One last chowdown w1th your fr~ends. KokoK1mmy. Reagan for UMOC Risen from the burn of RED PEPPER HOT la!l'e Tortured by TUMATOE dmmg and roller push me down-TIE EVERY THANKS NEEDS A GIVING. YOU UP" d1sco Leap over to my pad EVERY HALLO NEEDS A WEEN. and LETS GET LOOSE lor an ALL EVERY SANTA NEEDS A CLAUS. EVERY APRIL NEEDS A FOOLI STAR FROGS show DUKE HAPPY BIRTHDAYTUMATOE ... DOOOK! (your partiCipa­tion DESIRED I) JIM DOUG! NATURAL FAMILY PLANNING IN­Weez & Waura, FORMATION NIGHT Thanks tor the delivery servtce! 1 MONDAY. APRIL 6. 7 30·8.30 PM.don't know what I'd do Without ya'all HAYES-HEALY AUDITORIUM Love. WIZ PAQBUAKE PRO BURKENEED a backhand? Call Billie JEAN at HE MAKES THE CHILDREN CAY!I!I 4842! SAVE THOSE PENNIES FOR UMOC PRO. YOU AE AN UGLY MAN'!'BILL GAIZZ NELLIST FOR UMOC! He's so ugly that even at the char~ty WE WANT TO BUY A BOOKSTOREball. no girls would dance w1th h1m TEAM CALL US IF YOUR TEAMGirlS, he's the type ol guy you take WOULD RATHER DRINK THANhome to mother. HIS MOTHER PLAYI!I! CALL 1650 FOR INFOAMA· TION THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU Dear Christ me. and K1p. Thanks MARY BETH.lor the best birthday ol my lite m THANKS SO MUCH FOR A GREATCh1cago Dear Erm. Thanks' tor the WEEKEND WE AE GONNA HAVE TO(;tJeesecat<e. the wafered-down kool­PRACTICE WITH THE SECONDald (what else?), the n1te at UVA. (we·ll FLOOR BEER DAOP"I' DEATH never forget THAT). and your MARCH II?? fr~endsh1p. Dear Ted. Thanks tor Fr~day LOVE YA. THE GIMP'With the ducks, for lhe birthday k1ss 1 never got. and for being you. Dear TODAYLaurel. Thanks lor bemg a sweet· heart THE SECOND ANNUAL APRIL FOOLSof a room>e on my birthday and tor put· DAY EXPLOSION IIIII WATCH OUT.ITS tmg up w1th all the cards Dear A1ck. A KILLEA!!!I EVEN IF IT DOESN TThanks lor the birthday k1ss and dance RAIN. WE'LL DAINK!III Dear Ga11-Marie and Laura. Thanks tor the upcommg heavenly dmner at PRO IS UGLYJerem1ah Sweeney's Dear Carne. Thanks 1or all your love and that beauti­SHIRLEY.ful poster. Dear Mom and Dad, Thanks PLEASE DON'T QUIT ONfor putting up with me all break. I love ME!!IIWHAT WILL I DOl! I you all-·II was the best birthday ol my l1le. Love, Carol LOVE TIM ~eg, you can't avo1d 111 You're a sweette! What will we do. whal Will we do? BrucegodPS Thanks lor Sat. mte' vote nann1 SUE. Boos have a lanlasllc B·Day We love DESPERATELY NEED TWO NO youGRADUATION TICKETS. CAN YOU The Cham Gang HELP? PLEASE CALL RUTH AT 41· 5459. Sue Boos always says 1t's her b~rthday Q Why d1d the Chicken cross the road m the Yukon? Lookmg lor fide to MILWAUKEE Thrus­A. To get to the other s1del day before Easter W1ll share gas ex­Apfll Fool! You though! I was gomg penses Deirdre 8013 to do a moose joke. didn't you? Bruce Oa~ley  


I 
Wednesday, April1, 1981 -page 12


S~orts 

Future questionable 

Roemer Ousts ruggers 
me who had participated. When I and that such behavior had been
By MICHAEL ORTMAN 

returned about 1 5 minutes later, going on for some time, Kelly met they told me they were all in this to­again with Athletic Director Gene Thirty membc:rs of the Notre gether, and that all but one of them, Corrigan. In a statement released 
Dame Rugby Club received notice 
Sports Editor 

one on crutches, had participated." earlier today, the Athletic Depart­yesterday from Dean of Students 
In his letter to those 30, Roemer ment announced the cancelation of james Roemer that they are never said, "You indicated that this the remainder ofthis season. That in­again to play rugby for N0~re Dame. 
(elephant walk) has become a cus­cludes five matches -two at home Later in the day. the Athletic Depart­
tom over a period of years... follow­and three away. ment cancelled the remainder ofthe ing an afternoon of Rugby and an Yesterday afternoon, a club of­club's 1981 spring season. 
evening of drinking and singing of ficer and spokesman expressed dis­The directives resulted from in­
bawdy songs. appointment in the latest verdicts. vestigations conducted by the 
"This custom has never been "We really thought that the initial Office of Non-Varsity Athletics and brought to the attention of this action taken by the NVA office was Roemer's office after reports of a 
office before. In my opinion, it is an pretty stiff itself," he said. "This (the nude "elephant walk" hy members example of gross alcohol abuse elephant walk) has been going on of the team during their spring trip which somehow has grown up with for over a decade, I know. This was to Houston, Tex. 
this particular sport." the first formal complaint ever filed. As explained to Roemer, each 
According to Roemer, the group "We also didn't like the fact that elephant walker "places his hands 
explained to him that "the nudity the complainer remained between his legs so that the person helps bond the group together." anonymous. He nevc:r gave us the behind can hold on to it as they walk Roemer disclosed in the letter that chance to confront him or ap­he had discussed their actions with a pologize or anything."
or dance around the room." The Office of Non-Varsity Ath­

psychologist, hoping to learn the As for the club's future, the letics received a complaint from a reasons for such behavior. spokesman made it quite clear that it citizen in Houston about the group's 
"Somehow rugby has developed a would find a way around the ruling. behavior at Grift's, a public bar. Dr. 
reputation for grossness which fol­"All we've ever gotten from the Uni­lows serious alcohol abuse," the let­versity has been playing fields and
Tom Kelly, director of NVA, inves­ter continued. "When you money to buy jerseys (about $30
tigated the chargc:s and levied initial sanctions against the team last week. 

'performed' in Houston, you each). We'll be sure to get around "We informed them that the club 
represented to people that you were this. We may not be Notre Dame would be placed on two-year proba­
a Notre Dame group. Because ofthat rugby players any more, but we're impression, the individual who com­still rugby players.
tion," Kelly said Monday. "That basi­plained made contact with the Uni­"There's a special 'Band of Bro­
cally means two things. First, they versity. therhood' and camaraderie among
must limit their schedule only to "This type of alcohol abuse and us on the team," he added. "Part of
dates when school is in session -in gross behavior is not consistent with that is the walk. We're still going to
other words, no spring or fall trip. the values and standards ofthis Cath­play rugby together, maybe on an­
Second, their activities will be olic university. Similar actions in the other field under another name, be­
watched closely, and if similar be­future will not be tolerated." cause we love the game and
havior should occur during that In accordance with the current relationships that accompany it."
period, the team would be finished." du Lac manual, Roemer's letter in-.
After his investigation was com­formed each of the 30 that they are
plete, Kelly was required to turn all "never to play rugby as a member of 

Deadline: May 2 
of his information over to the Dean 

a 'Notre Dame' group again as long
of Students. But further information as you are still a student at this Uni­
came to light during that subsequent versity. You are also directed never
investigation, and yesterday Roemer 


Faust seeks quarterback solution 
to take your clothes offin a public or
stiffened the Athletic Department's penalty in a two-page letter sent to semi-public social occasion. If you By SKIP DESJARDIN starter will be."· frustration for them, and for the violate either of these two
the players involved and their Sports Writer "We are working at a disadvantage team, once fall rolls around." 
directives, you will be dismi~sed
parents. because neither of us had ever seen Whomever assumes the starting
from the University."

"Last week I asked the club presi-. Gerry Faust is not wasting any any ofour quarterbacks throw until job will have a newly revised offense 
Roemer indicated that he did not
dent to bring to my office anyone time. He says that he will definitely last weekend," he continues. with which to work. 
have the power to act against the
who may have participated"tn this have his starting and backup quar­"What we've done is combine 
team as a whole, but only against the
walk," Roemer said. "I expected terbacks selected by the end of aspects ofthe offenses from each of maybe three or four people, and I individuals involved. Any team­spring practice. Spring Football'81 the places that our coaches have related decision would have to
was very surprised when over 30 "We're going into this with com­come from," explains Faust. "So come from the athletic department. a of ter­
showed up. pletely open minds," Faust says. we'll have combination 
After learning yesterday that more "But after a couple more days of
"I met with the group in an empty "Coach (Tom) Lichtenberg and I minologies, plays, and formations than half of the club was involved
classroom, and left it to them to tell will make the decision on who the practice we'll know what they can from the Air Force Academy, do. The guy who earns it this spring Morehead State, Tulane, and Moel­will get the job.". ler, as well as carry some things over Notre Dame's inconsistency at from Notre Dame's playbook."
For NCAA appearance 

picking a starter last season, coupled Lichtenberg is the new offensive with the arrival ofFaust from Cincin­co-ordinator, and he explains the nati's Moeller High School, and the new philosophy somewhat more
O'Sullivan: 1981 'could be it' 
extended eligibility of Moeller simply. a! t umnus Tim Koegel, has fueled "We are going to run a multiple
By ARMAND KORNFELD were the stroke counts. Because the the Notre Dame squad fail to ~eceive 
rumors that Koegel would get the offense," he says." We'll run a drop­Sports Writer Irish play in Florida each year, an invitation to the NCAA's, eitheror nod as starter. back or semi-drop-back offense inO'Sullivan has an idea of how they both of the captains have the poten­"Timmy will have a shot just like which we throw the ball 35 percentAn invitation to the NCAA tourna­should fare. Before break this year, tial to receive personal invitations. 
the rest of them," responds Faust, of the time. There will be no sprint
ment eluded the Notre Dame golf the Irish coach predicted his team A third senior, Bill McGuiness, "but he's going to have to earn it just outs or option plays. That tends toteam last spring-just barely. Ifthe would finish 45 strokes behind the provides O'Sullivan with even more like they are. restrict some types of quarter­
Irish had played better in only one winners. Notre Dame ended up just experience and proven talent. 
"The guy who proves himself will backs."
tournament it is likely they would 19 strokes from the top spot. Moving through the other three get the job. He will get it because he The new philosophy comes ashave received a bid. This spring, that "We went down as diversified in­positions on the starting six, plays better than anyone else this part of an effort to diversify Notredream may become a reality. dividuals and came back as a team," however, does not indicate any step spring, not because I know his Dame's offense, Faust says. TheCoach Noel O'Sullivan, now in his O'Sullivan said. down in talent. Bob Horak, the 1980 capabilities or because he played for coaches for a
eighth season as Irish golf coach, Still, the NCAA's seem like a pipe Notre Dame Invitational winner, is a are looking more 
me." balanced attack, avoiding a label as a hases his optimism on several thfngs. dream to some people. Is it a realis­first-year performer and is the only For the time being, two freshmen "tailback offense" or a ·'slot-back of­"The chemistry ofthis year's team tic goal considering the odds? junior on the squad. Stoney Ferlman, are working with the first team. Blair fense" and going to all of the of­is magnificent," he said. "The players O'Sullivan remains adamant. the lone starting sophomore, Kiel, who ended last season as the fensive players as scoring threats. 
are strong individuals, but an excel­"No, the chances of us going to finished fifth in a field of I00 in the Irish starter, and Scott Grooms, who There is another man who fits intolent rapport exists between them, the (NCAA) tournament are not Florida tournament. The new kid on 
saw limited action during the 1980 this complex quarterback situation
and they have great respect for one especially good. But we're shooting the block, freshman Dave Pangraze, season. as well.
another. for the pot of gold at the end of the hails fromw Manchester, N.H., and The second team duties are being Ken Karcher, a high school senior
"In addltion, the players possess rainbow. Why not shoot for the promises to provide consistency in split between two seniors whose from Glenshaw, Pa. is regarded as 
great-skills and they have the at­moon? We've got nothing to lose the No. 6 position. 
careers have been extended by the the best high school passer in thetitude they need to succeed." and if we can be consistent we have The talent does not end with the 
NCAA's "red-shirt" rules. Koegel country. Next year he too will beA strong showing in Florida over a chance. starting six. The strongest seventh will share those responsibilities with 
spring break supports O'Sullivan's "We've improved every year man O'Sullivan ever remembers See FAUST,page 11
Greg Knafelc. 

optimism that this could be the year since I began coaching and of all of having, freshman Dave Morrman, is "We told Tim and Greg, though,for his squad to make the NCAA's. the years, I have a tremendous capable of playing anytime, while 
that if they weren't our first or
The Irish finished 11fth in a field of feeling this could be it." the No. 8 man, Casey Cunniff, pos­
second quarterback by the end of BillMarquard's Irish Item~ which seventeen, most of which were the The team is co-captained by sesses more talent around the green 
the spring that they should graduate normally appears on Wednesday,
traditionally stronger Southern seniors Tom McCarthy and Tim Sac, than anyone on the team. 
this summer," the new Irish coach will rnn tomorrow.
schools. hek, both three-time monogram 
See O'SULLIVAN, page 11 says. "That way we can avoid a lot of
Perhaps even more surprising winners and proven players. Should 







