~ --~--~--~ 
.Gonzo -page5 

VOl.. XV, NO. 103 an mdependem studem newspaper serving notre dame and samt mary's TlJESDAY, MARCH 3, ll)H 1 
For EI Salvador 

State Dept. announces aid 
WASIIlNGTON (AP)-Tht: State Departmt:nt, declaring that leftist guerrillas in El Salvador may launch a nt:w olti:nsivt:, announced Monday a S2'i million increast· in military aid and a 20~man incrt:ase in U.S. military training experts for that country. 
Spokesman William Dyess said the aid will indudt· additional helicop· ters, vehicks. surveillance equip· mt·nt and small arms. 
Tht· additional training personnel would raise to 'i4 the number of Americans serving in military­related capacities in El Salvador. 
Dyess said the U.S. personnel will not go beyond the garrison area or take part in combat operations. 
"The insurgents are regrouping and massive quantities of arms remain in their hands, either inside El Salvador or they have reason to expel'! that additional arms are waiting to be smuggled in," he said. "We want to improve as much as possible the government's ability to dt·al with this problem." 
lie said the S I 0 million in military aid authorized by the Carter ad· ministration was not designed to copt· with tht· level ofexternal arms assistance that now confronts the Salvadoran government. 
He said the new military person­nel being assigned to El Salvador will train the Salvadoran military and communications, intelligence, logis­tics and other skills to stop infiltra· tion and to respond to terrorist attacks. 
The leftist rebels launched a major offensive on January I which the State Department said was carried out with the help of at least 200 tons of weaponry supplied by Vietnam. Ethiopia and other countries and shipped through Cuba and Nicaragua. 
Dyess said there is no condusive t•vidence that a new offensive is planned but "the best way to prevent ont· is to prepare for it." He said the Salvadoran military per­formed well in January. 
The administration also may in­crease the $63 million economic aid planned for the current fiscal year. 
The announcement on military as­sistance represents another escala­tion in American military involvement in El Salvador. But the administration has said there are no plans to send combat forces nor to establish a Vietnam-type involve· ment there. 
Nonetheless, the steps taken thus far reflect the administcation's deter­mination to ensure there is no Mar· xist takeover in El Salvador. 
The Soviet-bloc countries arc alleged to have delivered at least 200 tons ofan 800-ton commitment to the leftist rebels. U.S. officials have said they believe the bulk of the un­delivered equipment has arrived in Nicaragua for trans-shipment to El Salvador. 
Under American pressure, however, the Nicaraguan govern· ment has pledged not to deliver any additional equipment to the rebels. 
More than 40 congressmen, meanwhile, said in a telegram to President Reagan that advisers are likely to be killed, "forcing the United States either into another Vietnam or a humiliating withdrawal." 
The House members said Congress must be consulted under the War Powers Act "since you are involving U.S. military personnel in hostitities in El Salvador." 


John Pow-ers relates 'Catholic experience' 
By NORMAN PLATE 
News Stuff 
The Sophomore Literary Festival continued last night with author John Powers, who addressed a Library Auditorium audience that exceeded capacity. 
John Powers, a self-described "product ofsixteen years ofCatholic education," used humorous anecdotes in relating the "Catholic experience" ofgrowing up. 
Drawing from his books The Last Catholic in Amerit·a, Do Black Patent Leather Shoes Really Reflect Up?, andThe Unoriginal Sinner and the Ice Cream God for many of his stories, Powers comically related such common Catholic experiences as sex education in Catholic schools, nicknaming nuns, and mom making you dress in a bright, yellow raincoat and heavy boots "if there was a cloud somewhere over the con­tinental United States." 
One story which particularly 
amused the audience was the com· parison of Catholic girls to wiffie balls: "alot of effort and little dis­tance." 
Powers continued the program with a question and answer session. Along with relating certain events in his childhood and adolescence, Powers revealed that the play, Do Black Patent Leather Shoes Really Reflect Up?, which is based on the book of the same name, will even­tually reach Broadway. Powers also said that he does not intend to write another novel in the near future be­cause "it's really rotten to write, but nice to have written." 
Powers finished with some letters from "God" to a child, taken from 
The Unoriginal Sinner and the Ice Cream God. One letter concerned the child's belief that God never laughed. The response reflected John Power's philosophy: "To me laughter is taking a bite out of life and saying 'Thanks God, it's just 
right.'" 

Illuminating darkness 


Senate proposes improvements 
ByJEFF CHOPPIN 
News Stuff 
Four security proposals were the highlights of last night's Student Senate meeting at Hayes-Healy. The Senate also approved Karen Kiley as next year's Student Government Treasurer. In addition, surveys and housing were lliscusscd 
The four recommendations dealt with dark areas on campus, where certain lights needed to be fixed, the installation of telephones, and car pick-ups. 
Rose Kay, Student Government Security Commissioner, reported six specific dark areas; along Saint Mary's Road, bt·tween Nieuwland &knee llall and the Fieldhouse, the Fisher/ Pangborn an·a by the golf courst·. around the Architt•t·ture Building, hy the Grotto ncar the Freshman Year Building, and the in­tlrmary/Saint Ed's area. Ms. Kay stated that she would inform 
Security ofthese areas. 
In addition, Ms. Kay handed out a list of24 on-campus locations where lights were extinguished. She stated that she had called the rectors of all the dorms who had lights that were out but not broken. She urged security to increase their checks on the lights and maintenance to act as quickly as possible on Security's report. 
Ms. Kay also proposed that telephones be installed in isolated buildings on campus. She rcpoted that Tara Kenney was still working on getting telephones installed in the parking lots. 
The proposal to allow males to receive a I '5-minutc pass to bring cars on t·ampus ifthey are picking up a female passenger has received a negativt· response by security, it was reported. 
There will be a meeting for all those interested in discussing security on Thursday, March '5, at 7:30 in LaFortune Little Theater. Dean Roemer, who is the ad­ministrative head of security, and the assistant director of security, Rex Raco, will be there. 
The Senate survey results will be made known next week. Student Body President Paul Riehle also an­nounced that he was sending out a survey to Catholic colleges and uni­versities. Riehle stated that the purpose ofthe surveys was to gather information on the institutions in or­der to compare their policies and problems with Notre Dame's. 
The housing problem was also dis· cussed at the meeting. Riehle stated that Fr. Heppen was "really vague" about the number of students over the housing limit. Riehle stated that. the housing problem would con· tinue and advised the Senate to look into longtcrm solutions. 
Riehle announced that there would be a Campus Life Council meeting next Wednesday. March II. 


Novelistjohn Powers addresses an overflow crowd in the Library Auditorium as the Sophomore Literary Festival continues. (Photo by TimMcKeogh) 
Observerannounces new editorial board 
Members ofthe 1981-82 Observer Editorial Board were announced last night by newly-elected Editor-in-ChiefJohn McGrath. 
Tom Jackman, a junior majoring in English and American studies from Reston, Va., will serve as Managing Editor. He is now Executive News Editor. Jackman will also supervise the content of the Editorial and Opinion sections. 
Rich Coppola, currently employed as Student Union Director, will serve as Observer Business Manangcr. Coppola is a junior accounting major from Quincy, Ill. 
Lynne Daley, an American Studies major from Pittsfield, Mass., has been promoted to Executive News Editor. She currently serves as a News Editor. 
Tim Vercellotti, a sophomore government major, andJohn Higgins, a sophomore marketing/philosophy major, have been appointed News Editors. Vercellotti, a native of Oakmont, Pa., and Higgins, a Miami, Fla .. native, now serve as Senior Staff Reporters. 
Beth Huffman, currently Sports Editor, will continue to serve in that capacity under the new board. Huffman is a junior American studies major from Ludlow Falls, Ohio. 
Ryan VerBerkmoes, an Aptos, Calif., native, has been promoted to the position of Production Manager. He currently serves as a Oesign Editor. 
Mary Fran Callahan, a sophomore English major, will continue to serve in her capacity asObsenJer Senior Copy Editor. Callahan is a Park Ridge, Ill., native. 
Mark Ellis, a junior marketing major from Detroit, Mich., will also continue to serve in his present role as Advertising Manager. 
Rick Hermida, a first year law student from Miami, Fla., has been 
appointed Features Editor. Hermida was formerly features editor of 
the University of Miami Humcane.. 
John Macor, a junior chemistry major from Bridgcwatt·r, N.j., will 
continue to serve in his current role as Photo Edit<~­
Mary Agnes Carey, a Saint Mary's junior majoring in English from 
Kokomo, Ind., will serve as Saint Mary's Executive Editor. Cathy 
Domanico, an Addison, Ill., native and English major. will assist Carey 
as Saint Mary's News Editor. Joe Mulflur, a junior accounting major 
from Jeffersonville, Ind., h~s been appointed Controller. Uc currently 
serves on the Obsen1er Advertising Department design staff. 
Tom Madcnnan, a sophomore from San Bernardino, Calif.. has been promoted to Circulation Manager. Madennan plans to major in Finance. The new hoard will assume control ofThe ObsenJL'T' on March 23. 


Tuesday, March 3, 1981 -page 2



NewsBrie_b 
c===~~======~====================================~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
The nation's youngest bank robber, a 9-year-old boy, was only play acting when he held up a bank in New York with a toy gun -and was actually surprised when the teller handed over $118, his lawyer said yesterday. Attorney Mel Sachs said his 4-foot, 5-inch, 90-pound client, identified only as Robert, used the money to buy french fries and hamburgers, a . musical watch and a movie ticket. The defendant, meanwhile, appeared in Family Court, where a petition was filed to cite the boy as a juvenile delinquent, specifying armed robbery as the offense. His parents requested the hearing be open to the public, although such juvenile cases normally ·are handled in strict privacy. "The family would like the world to know just what kind of a person the boy really is," Sachs said. Police said the boy pulled out a gun in the New York Bank for Savings in Rockefeller Center Feb. 26 and left with about $118 in cash after saying to a teller: "this is a holdup." Sachs said the youngster did not admit bank robbery. Instead, he claimed he was just playing when he staged the heist and was very surprised when the money was turned 
over to him. Thus, there was no intent to rob, Sachs maintained. -AP 
A court battle reminiscentofthe historic Scopes "monkey trial" opened yesterday after a judge refused to dismiss a civil suit brought by fundamentalists who want California schools to teach the theory of creation alongside evolution. Superior Court Judge Irving Perluss, saying that the plaintiffs had a right to try to prove their children's rights were being violated, rejected the dismiss­al motion by a state lawyer at the outset of a heavily publicized non­jury trial. Deputy Attorney General Robert Tyler contended the state had the right to make an "educational decision" about teaching the theory ofevolution, instead ofdivine creation, in science classes. But Perluss said opponents from the Creation-Sciece Research Center in San Diego could try to prove tltat the teaching ofevolution as the sole theory of the development of life on earth violated some children's religious rights. The center's lawyer, Richard Turner, contended the state's policy was "essentially hostile to religion." -AP 
President Reagan assailed yesterday the special interest groups standing in the way ofhis economic recovery program and pleaded with urban leaders to realize that "the only power needed to restore America's strength is will power." In his first formal speech since he advanced his budget and tax-cutting plan to Congress on Feb. 18, Reagan complained to the National League of Cities that a "political gauntlet of interest groups" threatens to dis· mantle it. Reagan assured the urban leaders, that he would preserve the "function" of tbe Urban Development Action Grants Program, which formed the center-piece ofJimmy Carter's urban policy and quickly became a favorite of the nation's mayors. And while the recovery plan calls for reducing federal subsidies to cities, Reagan said, he had tried to "cushion the budget blows" by making block grants to local governments. Reagan noted there has been some con­gressional opposition to his call for a three-year, 30 per cent tax cut. 
-AP 

Its ranks ihinn.ed by departures of officers after race riots last May, the Dade County police force is offering S500 savings bonds to the first 100 residents who refer qualified applicants to the department. But the county police force faces stiff competition in its recruitment drive. The rival Miami Police Department is offering prospective recruits free transportation to take civil service tests and is reimbursing them for moving expenses and temporary lodging. The Dade County force is trying to fill 300 openings, including 250 spots created in October. The city force is looking for 278 officers, includ­ing 100 for new slots and 108 to replace officers expected to be lost through attrition. -AP 
The National Commission on Air Quality recommended yesterday that two key deadlines be dropped from the Clean Air Act and that industry be given a freer hand to develop pollution-free areas. The majority ofthe 13-member commission said in a fir u report to Congress that air pollution controls can be streamlined and made less restrictive without unduly jeopardizing health. But dissenting members complained the proposals "go beyond compromise." The report foreshadows what likely will be a long and bitter debate over rewriting the clean air law, which was last revised in 1977 and expires this year. By proposing to drop the progressively tougher 1982 and 1987 standards for air quality and loosening other restrictions -such as the carbon monoxide limit for auto exhaust ­the panel seeks to reverse some "of the most basic programs of the Clean Air Act," said Richard Ayres. Ayres and two other members filed the dissent The commission, whose members include state and federal legislators as well as industry, health, labor and environmental representives, submitted its report after two years ofstudy. The report was received at a joint session of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee and the House Energy and Commerce subcommit· tee on health and the envi~onment. -AP 
Mostly sunny and cooltoday. Highs in the mid to upper 30s. Becoming cloudy tonight with a slight chance of light snow. Lows in the upper 20s. Light snow tomorrow, becoming mixed with rain by afternoon. Highs in the upper 30s to low 40s. -AP 
Sentencing contradictions 
Silly Jean Harris. She made the serious mistake of shooting Scarsdale Diet creator Dr. Herman Tarnower in New York State, rather than in the beautiful and benevolent state ofSouth Dakota. 
Why South Dakota, you ask? Well, according to a sur­vey conducted by the National Law journal, South Dakota is the most forgiving state in the union when it comes to persons convicted of willful homicide. It seems that jurists in South Dakota give these sinners what amounts to as little as a 31-month term behind bars. That's two years and seven months. 
Jean Harris, on the other hand, faces a minimum sen­tence of 1 5 years for her crime of passion. That is one year longer than the period during which the stately 57-year-old was involved with the bachelor doctor, who was simultaneously carrying on with his attractive, 38-year-old office assistant. Therein lies the motive. 

Luckily, though, Ms. H.trris did not lure Tarnower in· to Massachusett.', wh~n· ~he would face a penal system that feature~ tlw stiffest penalty for this crime. The Bay State puts defendants away for an average 180-month term ifthey are unfortunate enough to be convicted of willful homicide within its lush boundaries. 
The other statistics cited in the]ournal's study are is, after all, how much time is actually served. The primary factor in determining the length ofterm of in· carceration is the ambition ofthe states' parole boards. The average time served in prisons in the U.S. for all felonies is 25 months, the survey says, ranging from good ol' South Dakota's 13 months to a high mean of 53 months in Massachusetts. The Puritan influence lives on, it seems. 

The percentage of parolees also differs from state to state. In Wyoming, only 24 percent ofall prisoners were paroled in 1977. In the "easier" states ofMichigan, New Jersey, Ohio and Utah, an impressive 90 percent of felons were released on probation. • 
Thejoumal allowed that the average prison time is probably greater today, as more and more states in· 

equally alarming. For ex­stitute mandatory sentences ample, auto thieves in Vir· for certain crimes. Massac­ginia served an average of4 7 husetts, for example, now months in prison. This implements a mandatory life penalty is more than that as­sentence for first-degree signed to convicted forcible murder and a minimum of rapists in 28 states. For those 15 years before a second· 
interested in a future in for­degree murderer is eligible cible rape, Alaska or Nevada for parole. are the places to go, where Such procedures are long the average sentence for overdue. The sure enforce­such an offense is a paltry 14 ment of mandatory sen­months. Conversely, rapists tences for more serious should be warned before crimes is the only way to visiting Arkansas. Its mean .ensure that justice is meted prison term of 119 months out fairly. A large dis· for this act is a national high. crepancy in sentencing 
It doesn't require a math policies across the country whiz to see that the dis· can only undermine the crepancies in the above purpose of our corrections figures are huge. The 105· system. As the courts work 

month difference in sentences for the one crime alone indicates that the issue of primary importance when studying criminal activity is the place where the crime occurs, rather than the facts ofthe case. 

There is no comparison between the crimes of mur­der and robbery. Yet, in West Virginia, according to the survey, robbers averaged 60-month terms -a longer period thm convicted murderers served in 11 other states. 
On a local level, criminals and attorneys alike realize that the judge who hears a case is as important to the verdict and/or sentence as is a star witness.' A crotchety old judge, biding time until his retirement, may see no merit in any defendant under 35. A more "progressive" jurist may be inclined to assign work study assignments, rather than hard time behind bars. And some judges simply do not care, and haphazardly convict and acquit the accused. 
The sentencing itself is not the main area of concern here. The most important aspect ofthe criminal system now, any convict, anywhere in the U.S., can look to an· other case, similar to his/her own, and see that the cor· responding defendant "got off," relatively speaking. 
Mandatory sentences would also encourage juries to think harder and more carefully before passing judg· ment on an accused criminal. The differences between frrst· and second-degree murder would be more care· fully defined, as would the difference between levels of rape. And these classifications would be carefully ad· hered to. Sentences for forcible rape would no longer be indistinguishable from those for auto thieves. 
So, poor, New York-boundJean Harris will get at kast 15 years, making her 72 when she is released, pending a near-certain appeal. Whether or not she deserves the sentence is not for us to say. But, by 1996 a few key reforms could mean that South Dakota is no longer the attractive place it once was for plan-ahead killers. 
And hy then, maybe it will be feasible to steal a car in Virginia. 

The_()hs.enr_er 
Design Editor.......... Ryan Ver Berkmoes Design Assistants ....................... Tonia Hap )elf Moore Layout Staff.......................... Michele Dietz Lisa Bontempo Typesetter............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor ........................... Margie Brassil Copy Editors ............................ Lynne Daley Tim VerceUotti Features Layout..........................Tonia Hap Sports Copy Editors .................. Dave Irwin Skip Desjardin Typist ......................................... Katie Bigane Systems Control .......................... Ray Inglin Tim Debelius ND Day Editor ...................... Dan Gonzalez Ad Design ............................. Woody & Fran Photographer....................... Tim MeKeogh 



Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-ln-Cblef.........................................Paul Mullaney 
FeaturesEditor..........................................MoUy WoulfeBox Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 ManagingEditor.............................................Mark Rust Photo Editor...................................................john Macor
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the EditorialsEditor.................................Michael Onufrak University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily Senior Copy Editor........................Mary Fran Callahan BusinessManager .....................................Greg Hedges reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported Executive News Editor............................Tom jackman Controller ..........................................................Jim Rudd as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a News Editor ..................................................Lynne Daley AdvertisingManager......................................Mark Ellis 
SMCExecutive Editor .............................Margie Brassil AdvertisingSales Manager...........,... Michael MeSally 
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views 
SMC News Editor.........................................Mary Leavitt 
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and Circulation Manager ...............................Beth Hackett 
Sports Editor..............................................Beth Huffinan Production Manager..............................John McGrath
rl-je free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
The Observer Tuesday, March 3, 1981 -page 3 
Vermont senator 




Leahy advocates SALT II 
By SUE KELLEHER 
News Staff 
U.S. Senator Patrick Leahy (O­Ver.) spoke on "single-issue politics" and the necessity of reviv­ing the SALT II process, In the Notre Dame Law School FriJay afternoon. 
Ohio's ex-Governor John Gilligan 
introduced Sen. Leahy as "one ofthe 
few, but certainly not the least ofthe 
Democrats who survived" the 
Rt·agan landslide. 
Leahy, who graduated from St. 
Michael's College in Vermont In 
195 7 and from Georgetown Law 
School In 1964, told his audience 

that because they are "part of a select strata of society," they arc "responsible to the community" of which they are a part. 
The senator cited the growing in­fluence of special interest groups as the root of "one-Issue politics," i.e., political platforms that arc based entirely on a single issue, such as abortion. "One-issue politics," Leahy stated, "threatens representa­tion because it ignores the com­plexities" of a given issue and Its place In the political scenario. 
Leahy spoke of the Panama Canal Treaty controversy as an attempt to simplify a complex issue. He regarded the U.S. attitude toward the canal (i.e. "we built it, we own it, we'll keep it") as imperialistic and colonialistic. 
"It also made us look racist," Leahy said, "and ignored the fact that the canal may soon be obsolete." 
The senator then turned to what he considers the country's most pressing concern: the reinstatement of a viable SALT treaty. As it stands, he said, "a war between the Soviet Union and the U.S. would be a vic­tory for neither side. Yet we con­tinue to build sophisticated defense mechanisms such as the MX missile." 

SMC Board discusses Caddyshack uproar 
By SUSAN KING 
News Staff 
Loud disturbances during the movie Caddysback this weekend in 

, Carroll Hall at Saint Mary's were the major issue at the Board of Gover· nance meeting last night in Regina Hall. In addition to the outbreaks from the audience, two chairs were stolen from the lobby ofCarroll Hall. 
The loud behavior during Cad­dyshack was caused "in particular by Notre Dame students," said Kath­leen Sweeney, student body presi­dent. 
Security was present at the showing ofthe film, but they did not­hing to quiet the crowd. The board agreed that a policy should be made concerning the problem ofcontroll­ing behavior at the movies. One board member suggested that SAPB not show movies like Caddyshack in the future due to this weekend's dis­turbance:s. 


Music Music 
Attend Master Classes or take private lessons in Strings, Brass, Woodwinds, Harpsichord, Percussion, Guitar. Piano, Organ. Broaden your knowledge with a course surveying the coming Lyric Opera season or one reviewing the history of jazz. Enrich your teaching repertoire with coursework in music history or theory. Or, join the University Chorus or Summer Band. 
Most courses are open to credit or non-credit registration. For more information about summer session in Northwestern's famous School of Music, request a free course bulletin. Classes begin June 22. 
Call Toll-Free, 24-hours: 800-621-1466 ext. 6067 In Illinois, 800-972-1966 ext. 6067 
NORTHWESTERN SUMMER.I981 
Room 1-117, 2003 Sheridan Rd., Evanston, IL 60201 (312) 492-5250 
Academic Excellence in a Most Favorable Climate. 
"Ifwe get to the point where each si<,le has enough weapons to destroy the other," he asked, "how do we know the Soviets won't fire first? We would have no choice but to fire." 
The senator explained that wit­hout a SALT treaty there is great pressure on both the U.S. and the 
U.S.S.R to build up defense systems. This pressure, Leahy contended, will inevitably culminate in a nuclear holocaust, in which neither side can possibly win. 
"We don't trust the Soviets," he said, "but that's exactly why we need SALT. I know of no one, Democrat or Republican, who doesn't reach the same conclusion. Even Reagan's anti-SALT rhetoric is changing." 
There was a question and answer session following the lecture. A reception was held later that after­
noon. 


The Dancin'Irish gave theirfinal performance during halftime of Saturday's game against Dayton. (Photo byjohn Macor) 


Applications For SMC Commissioners 1981 1 82 
job descriptions and application in Student Activities Office due Friday, March6. 
This Wednesday and Every Wednesday ... 
ND/SMC SPECIAL Pitcher of Beer $2.00 Pitcher of Pop ·71c 
·with purchase of a large pizza. 
Tuesday&: Thursday $100 Off 
Any Large Pizza 
Thursday 
$100 Off 
Any 

PIZZA KING NORTH 
.--



CarryOut Dial 272·6017 
fighting Irish Beer so• can 

OPEN EVERY DAY 
MON.-THURS. FRI. & SAT. SUN. 


11 :00 -12:00 11:00-1:00 4:30-11:00 

Ihe~~==============~~========================== 





~c:»cJlC3l~===========================T=u=e=sd=a=y=,M=a=r=ch==3,=1=9=81===p=a=ge=4= 
Campus 
•4 
p.m. -sophomore literary festival, sally fitzgerald, boston, memorial library auditorium 

•7 
p.m. -chaplin film series, "the gold rush," annenberg auditorium, SI. 

•7 
p.m. -discussion, "el sal­vador: america's afghanistan?" room 108 o'shag. 

•7,9,11 
p.m.-film, "dirty har­ry," k of c hall, If, 1, members free. 

•7:30 
p.m. -sophomore literary festival, edward dorn, poet, memorial library auditorium. 

•7:30 
p.m. -anthropology meet your major, room 22 o'shaughnessy. •o p.m. -performing arts series, "music from marlboro," o'laughlin aud., adm: 54, $2­students, SMC-free. 



Doonesbury 



Molarity 
The Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 

Michael Molinelli 


ACROSS 31 Label 1 Flaccid 32 Opposed 5 Babywear one 9 Second-rate 34 Drawout 
writer 35 "-of 
13 Teutonic robins family in her ..." estate 38 Period 
14 Gem weight 39 Fasten 15 Medicinal again plant 40 Calico 16 Spanish horse 
painter 41 Carlole 17 Harangue 43 Adjective 18 Appellation ending 19 Find 44 Evil ones 22 Outline 46 Clearing 23 Svelte the tape 24 -Vineyard 49 Turner 27 Redleader and Cole 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 


51 Sacred bull 52 Crate 
words 58 Vicinity 59 Varnish 
Ingredient 60 Badhumor 62 Cicatrix 63 Unsophistl· 
cated 64 Lanchester 65 Keep 66 Commedia 
dell'­67 Sinister look 
DOWN 1 Record 2 Manon a 
pedestal 3 Yucatan native 4 Golfer Gary 
5 With­(weapon· less) 
6 Gershwin 
and Levin 7 Balneations 8 Swipes 9 Not mass· 
produced 10 Woeisme! 11 Italian 
lake 
12 Sharp 14 Semldome of an apse 20 Hall of 
FamerMel 21 Saltpeter 24 Craze 25 Go-between 26 Boa 28 Shadeof 
blue 29 Cake decor 30 Hawaiian 
goose 31 Buglecall 33 Marked by 
repetition 36 Banner 37 Musical 42 Author 
Du Maurier 45 Breast· bones 
47 Thus 
48 Girl's name 50 Vow 52 Leftover 
dish 53 With the bow 54 Patricia 
of movies 
55 "-true what they say..." 
56 Vex 57 If not 61 Mug lug 
LSAT • MCAT • GRE 
GRE PSYCH • GRE BID • MAT GMAT • OAT· OCAT • PCAT VAT· SAT ·CPA· TOEFL 
MSKP • NAT'L MED BDS ECFMG • FLEX • VQE NOB • NPB I • NLE 
~~.IUIPIAN 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER Test PreparatiOn Specialists Since 1938 
For informatiOn. Please Call: 
1 3150 

fhe New Orleans 
Club First Annual Mardi Gras Ball 
Friday 9-2 

Contact John 8714; 
·· or Mike 8710

-,

by thurs. 

Hill II I ~IIIII U 

TWO DAYS-ONLYI Mon-Tues March 2-3 9am unti15pm 
LAFORTUNE CENTER main lobby 
Tuesday, March 3, 1981 -page 5 





Features 
Fear & Loathingat Mardi Gras 
Editor's Note: Gonzojournalism is a literary genre wttb origins directly traceable to Dr. HunterS. Thompson, madefamous in the pages ofRollingStone magazine. Since Tbompsoon basgone into seclusion, Gonzo basfallen into decline, drugs aruJ drink seem to have lost their place in professionaljournalism. The Ob­server recent~y received the following reportfrom two dazed and decadent in­''esttgative reporters, who checked out the realities behind the NJJ facade known as Mardi Gras. Editing bas been limited on~y to the completely offensive, and The Ob­serverassumes no responsibilityfor the content. 
A
t times, a simple documentation ofthe fal'ls, such as one normally finds in a compt.'lent news story, is not enough to in­form one's readership as to what "really" is transpiring. Investigation Is frequently re­quired. One must delve "behind the scenes," and take a fresh look at what one previously considered to be reality. Such a look must be uncompromisingly blunt and unadulterated, no matter how painful or embarrassing the results. 
We did not expect to confront dl·cadcncc and her lackeys' usery and graft when we set out to cover the last night of the last Mardi Gras. This institution, after all, was ND-SMC's oldest social event and ostensibly a charitable project whose only goal was to aid some local do-gooders whllt· ensuring a swell time for all. In fact, this was not the case. 
In the "end justifies the means" school of theology, Mardi Gras stands above the rest as a monument to the decline ofAmerican society and the case with which such a ~ocicty can be manipulated by an am­bitious clerical hierarchy. Though the offi­ciallinc from the Bishop seems to indicate that papal disapproval of the Mardi Gras tradition has finally trickled down to the South Bend diocese, this past gala went on as scheduled. Many unsuspecting would­be philanthropists were taken advantage of, their lust for the almighty dollar and the ancient human fascination for gambling exploited at every opportunity. They kept saying, "Well, It's for charity," with those goddam plastic smiles on their acned faces. Screw charity. When you investigate some­
thing, you don't pull any punches, and that meant gambling to win. Big, if possible. Al­ways helps the tone ofthe articles too. You can tell how we did. 
Although a detailed study conducted by The Observt>r's Features department has rcwalcd that, on the average, each bettor who partidpatl·d in this catastrophe lost only 5.2, a simple lesson in basic account­ing shows exactly who the real winners and losers were. 
Mardi Gras officials, who have tradition­ally ht·cn mum on attendance figures as wdl as alleged tax abuses, refuse to an­nounce official gate receipt figures. The same officials have procrastinated when confronted with alleged counterfeiting and kick-back charges. In this post­Watergate era there seems to be little doubt that the public trust was taken ad• vantage of; "fat cats" got fatter; and it all oc­curred with the administration's approval. Not to mention the ecclesiastical hierarchy itself 
Akohol abuse was staggering. The offi­cial Mardi Gras line was no booze allowed, but it didn't take a genius to see that the Kl•t•nan Hall booth's poker game was a front ti>r a cut-rate bar specializing in te­quila sunrises and somethingcalled a CSC's Revenge. My assistant, Willie "Zoo" 'I"Allures, who by this time was exhibiting the first symptoms ofa debilitating case of alcohol poisoning, immediately volun­teered to check the booth out. 
"I.ikc to play some poker," he stam­mered a.~ he sauntered over to the Keenan booth. 
''I'll see what I can do," replied the deceiving Keenan freshman, his Notre Dame sweatshirt accentuated by a blue­and-gold Irish stocking cap. 
"Do all you clowns dress lil5:e that?" my assistant inquired, employing his usual tact while grabbing at the stocking cap. 
"Dress like what?" 

"Like Digger Phelps' idea ofwhat the stu­dent body should he: garish asses." "Uh, there's a chair open now." He sat down with mock confidence, and 
began eatingaway at ourexpense account. The Observer, those tight-fisted losers, had refused to front us the money necessary to conduct a full-scale Investigation in the proper state of mind. We, ofcourse, had to use a majority ofour cash for the state of 
mind, ever mindful ofpriorities. 
The game was nasty, the drinking was nastier. Luck was not hanging out in the Keenan booth that night Even my hand signals, while standing behind two Dillon cretins, were not helping matters greatly. 

Whoever made the rules for Mardi Gras poker was a devious bastard. The swine take ten percent out ofthe pot, and you hate to lose that money on the big ones. It makes you hesitate to make a raise while holdingJacks and deuces, but you do it anyway. The greasy stooge across the table sees your raise though, and lays down three 5s. 

... 


But'just what was the extcnt.to which the counterfeiting and dice-fixing was allowed to run rampant? Temporarily dt·terred from one facet ofour investiga­tion, the answer to these questions quickly became the focal point ofthe entire in­quest. Spotting the counterfeiters was no problem since they loitered outside Stepan Center like ticket scalpers at a pep rally. Mostly junkies and ex-administration offi­cials down on their luck, they were a mot­Icy crowd to behold. The big question for them was what color the Mardi Gras money was that night. Amazingly, not a single one guessed wrong on the night we were there. As my assistant approached a demure, somewhat drunken slob wearing a Sophomore Class T-shirt and leather thong.~. I knew he wa.~ in trouble. 
"Need some Mardi Gras money, man,?" 
the poor sap muttered, displaying a pink 

wad ofthe gambling tender as well as some 
recent needle marks on his left forearm. 
"Didn't you used to be assistant vice­
president for bowl game affairs," my al­
ways quick-witted cohort replied. 
"You crazy, man? How 'bout fifty bucks 
worth for ten dollars." 
My assistant eyed him carefully, noting 

that the T-shirt dated from 1952 while the 
faces of the bills appeared to have been 
recently rendered in purple crayon. 

"I don't know," he replied as the alcohol 
and daily ration ofhis favorite am­
phetamine coursed through his medula 

oblongata. His hands began to shake and I 
feared the worst remembering the 
bouncer who had tried to card him just a 
few hours ago. "How 'bout fifty for five," 

the guy retorted, spittle trickling from his 
tremor-wracked jaw. This dude had 
wrestled with Mr. Natural·one round too 
many. 

"I'll trade you a joint for a hundred," my 
assistant replied reaching into his always­
handy knapsack. Hemostats, six varieties of 
rolling papers, a McDonald's straw, his sis-
ter's old make-up mirror, a dull razor blade, and an ounce ofsome USDA-approved red top reefer spilled out. 
"No, no," exclaimed the obviously alarmed counterfeiter, his eyes casting a mean glance towards the Stepan Center door. 

"What, my dope's no good here?" "Hey, man. No offense, but we've got the word: Cash only." 
Again, it did not take a genius to see that something was amiss here. Something evil and rotten. 
Indeed, the curious absence ofthe clergy was enough evidence to suggest that malfeasance was occurring at an alarming rate. Although we were able to spot only three confirmed CSCs (some cleverly disguised as WSND disc jockeys and others imitating members ofthe rock band "Crystal"), those whom we did spot belied their anxiety and culpability in the whole affair at the least provocation. One such clergyman, doubling alternately as a member ofthe St. Joe County's sheriff department and as a dealer for Zahm Hall, confessed the whole story after he was easily engaged in conversation by my assis­tant. 
While discussing the merits ofgrain al­
cohol, the fink muttered something like 
"Let 'em put that stuff in their goddam 
kegs," and we knew we had a stool. He 
made oblique references to some "CSC 
Lounge," where the booze flowed con­
tinuously, and initiation rights for the Sis­
ters were hinted at. 
But where was the rest ofthe money 

going? And what was the Mafia's take? The 
pigeon belched loudly, swooned against 

the obnoxious "Blow Your Dough" wheel,· 
and fell back on the poorly-built table. "It 
goes all the way to the top,'' he confided. 
"The cover-up is !il1SSIVL, an1l Van will 

crush anyone who gels in his way." We had 
always suspected the jovial VP ofStudent 
Affairs as the Mafia link. 

The money? "Geez, do we blow it out in 
the summers. What's there for a rector to 

do? We lay down some 'going on a retreat' 
crap, and then it's 'Florida here we come.' 
Good times. They don't even ask you about 
your tan, they know better. And all this is 
paying for it." We were aghast. 

Journalism is a dirty game. Not only be­
cause it requires tolerance under the in­
fluence ofcontrolled substances 
(sometimes enormous amounts), but be­
cause it requires you to reveal the truth 

when it is uncovered. The truth can be un­
pleasant, even ugly, and bring out the dark 
side ofsome souls which even Dante never 
dreamed of. As we got closer and closer to 
the truth, we began to see that dark side 

increasingly. Repeated threats were made 
t 
~ 
\ . 

on our lives and well-being that weekend, even to the extent that a phony dealer tried to sell us some bad mescaline. Remember the girl who went to the hospital that weekend, some biggie in CILA? Ask her about it. 
But there was little time for further in­
vestigation. Off-campus parties beckoned 
with kilo-gallon keg.~. Absurd amounts of 
sinsemilla were circulating in South Bend, 
at last. The swindling was creating an at­
mosphere offear and loathing in the 
hideous Stepan Center, itself a monument 
to sickeningly elitist capitalism. We were 
magnetically attracted away from Mardi 
Gras.... 
Deadlines soon leapt upon our backs . They create a crushing pressure akin to being on the bottom ofa pile-up wedged betweenJack lambert and L.C. Green­wood. We tried to deal with the impending hour as normal journalists might. We lis­tened toJohn Lennon shriek "Cold Turkey" as the deadline screamed in our faces. Drugs were not proving to be the answer. We tried the boob tube for inspira­tion. Bizarre visuals. Wiry black men throwing spears into hippopotamuses. Next, bad country singers were lip­synching bad country songs, but we had Lennon cranked, and they were actually singing "Instant Karma." 
Instant karma hit us, at last. Or maybe it was the two hits ofspeed. The typewriter keys pounded mystically into thl' paper, slanderous words were created. It had to be in. More typing. Got to finish tonight. The tension ofbreaking the big one loomed heavily above us. More death threats from drunken deacons. Got to hide out for a while. 
The authors are chemistry majors cur­rently on enforced leave ofabsencefrom the University. 
'Music from Marlboro' Tonight at Saint Mary's 
As you reach the end of a country road in the Green Mountains of Vermont, you notice a small sign at the side ofthe road--"Caution-Musicians at Play" and you know you have arrived at the Marlboro Music Festival. 
"Music From Marlboro," a program featuring three outstanding soloists from the celebrated Marlboro Music Festival, will be presented in concert tonight at H p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium ofSaint Mary's College. Tickets for the program art: $4 for the general public and S2 for students. 
Tonight's concert will include Haydn's "Piano Trio in Eb Major, Hob. XV:.29;" Bar­tok's "Sonata No. 1 for Violin and Piano;" and Dvorak's "Piano Trio in E Minor, Op. 90, 
B. 166," ("Dumky"). Soloists are Andras Schiff, pianist; Hiroko Yajima, violinist; and Gary Hoffman, cellist. 
Born in Hungary, Andras Schiff was a student at Budapest's Franz Liszt Academy. He had his Carnegie Hall debut in 1978 as a soloist with the Franz Liszt Orchestra of Budapest. In 1977 he was awarded Hungary's highest musical honor, the Liszt Prize. 
Hiroko Yajima began her musical studies at the age ofsix In Tokyo. She came to the United States in 1965 as a Fullbright Fellow to study at the)ullliard School. Yajima has been a member ofthe Galimir String Quartet and the New York Phllomusica as well as guest artist with the Chamber Music Society ofLincoln Center. She is currently on the faculty ofthe State University of New York at Stony Brook. 
Gary Hoffman, the 1979 recipient of the Piatigorsky Award, was also First Prize Winner in the 1978 Montreal Symphony Competition and finalist in the 1978 Moscow Tchaikovsky Competition. 
The Marlboro Music Festival, founded in 1950, brings leading musicians from the 
U.S. and many foreign countries together for two months each summer--to ex­change ideas and explore the vast repertoire of chamber music in an Informal and intimate settimz 
The Observer Tuesday, March 3, 1981 -page 6 ' 

LLEGHENY LUDLUM STEEL CORP~ 
COUNTRY'S LEADING PRODUCER OF SPECIALTV STEELS 
NTERVIEWING ON CAMPU 
MARCH 4 

CAREER IN ALES/MARKETIN'-'­
********************************** 
~ BUY ~ 
~ . OBSERVER ~ 
continuedfrom page 8 
Simari says. "And we are also insist­ing that each captain have the two dollar entry fee with him when he or she registers." 
Another tradition is being renewed this year, and Simari sees it as a means of avoiding a lot of headaches on his end of things. 
"This year we will not allow any games to be rescheduled. Either teams play at their appointed time, or they forfeit the game." This may seem harsh, but it is a 
' 
The Top Twenty teams in The Associated Press college basket­ball poll, with first-place votes in parentheses, this season's s records and total poi~t&. Points based on 20-19·18·'7·1b·15 etc.· 

1. Oregon St. (60)  25-0  1,219  
2. DePaul (1)  25-1  1,148  
3. Louisiana St.  27-2  1,044  
4. Virginia  24-2  1,038  
5. Arizona St.  22-3  944  

6. Notre Dame 22-4 871 ?._Kentucky 22-4 864 


~ CLASSIFIEDS ~ **********************************
\ 

* ,_,.-,._.. -·--* ,......_,.._. -n--._.._.l 

Get Motiuatedl Applications Auailable 
?fot positions in next year's Student Union
9



rt·~? 
.

V?. • ' 
,. 
-Social Commissioner -Academic Commissioner -Contemporary Arts Commissioner -Concerts Commissioner -Seruices Commissioner 
-Publicity Manager 

-Mouie Commissioner 
Also -Accounting majors -~ Applications auailable for Comptrollers Applications mag be picked up in the Student Union Offices, 2nd floor LaFortune and are due Friday, March 6. For any questions call 7757 
...BoQkstore 
necessary change. 
"It is simply impossible for me to schedule every game around tests and other excuses. I've got 383 games to run, and there is not enough time to make the whole thing change for one person's schedule. 
"A few years ago, Adrian Dantley's team had advanced to the final six­teen teams. AD had to go to LaSalle college to accept an 'Athlete of the Year' award, but the commissioner refused to reschedule the game for him. As a result, the team lost. I've got to draw the line somewhere. Ifit was good enough for Adrian Dantley, its good enough for any stu­dent here now." 
8.1owa  21-4  834  
9. Utah  24-3  633  
10.Tennessee  20-6  549  
11. Wake Forest  22-5  536  
12. North Carolina 22-7  485  
13. UCLA  18-6  475  
14. Indiana  19-9  356  
15. Arkansas  22-6  308  
16. Illinois  19-6  294  
17. Louisville  19-8  283  
18. Brigham Young 21-6  197  
19. Wyoming  21-5  190  
20. Maryland  18-8  99  

Because this is Bookstore Ten, some special celebrations have been planned. Simari says that his As­sociate Commissioners, Anne Fink and Mary Beth Sterling, are making arrangements for a possible All-Star game, to feature some of the great Bookstore players ofall time. 
"We are hoping to get a number of basketball and football All Americans to return and play, along with some other, non-varsity ath­letes that became Bookstore legends," Simari says. 
For the first time, all four nten who have held the title ofBookstore Commissioner will be at Notre Dame at the same time. 
Simari also announced today that he is looking for administrative help in running the tournament. He urged any interested students, espe­cially freshmen, to contact him in 433 Stanford Hall, or call 283-8767. 
"This is a big job," he said, " and I need all the help I cari get." 

KofC hall $1.00adm. members free 
• 
Italian History Business Art 

Economics Nursing Education History Government Travel in: ____...
Travel in:----... Ireland England 
Germany France France Scotland 
Switzerland Italy 

rganizational Meeting March 10 For Info Call: A. R. Block 272-3726 284-4948 
Tuesday March 3, 1981 8:00 pm General Admission $4.00 0 'Laughlin Auditorium Students $2.00 

----~---­

~j)()1"tSc,fl==r=t=·e~~~=S===============================Tu=e=sd=~=·~M=~=c=h=3=,I=9=Bt===P=ag~e7 
by The Ohserl't'r and Tht• AJJuaatcd Prn.. 

The ND-SMC Sailing Club recently announced its Notre Dame is ranked sixth in the latest As­
IYH I dected oft1cers at an awards banquet. Those elected arc: Gerry sociated Press. DePaul, Saturday's opponent, Is ranked second. Daus, commodore; Bob Christiansen, vkc-commodore;]. B. Kuppe, Oregon State is the top-ranked team in the country. 
1981 Bengal
rt·ar-<:ommodore; Mimi Tortorelli. treasurer; Phil Reynolds, race team <'aptaln; and Carol Silva, secrt·tary. The following won club awards at the banquet: Phil Rt·ynolds, hest sailer of the year; Carol Silva, best 

Bouts 
crew; and Greg Fisher and Carol Silva, capsize award. Kelly Tripucka leads the East squad named last 
weekend by a panel ofcollege basketball coaches, writers and broad­

Semi-final Pairings
casters to play in the tenth annual Pizza Hut Basketball Classic. The 
Notre Dame's Women's Track Club has a 
home meet Friday at 3 against Saint Mary's College. Last Friday Rosemary Desloge placed second in the two-mile run in a meet at Eastern Michigan. Mary O'Connor was third in the H80-yard run and Patrice Murray was third in the three-mile run. Rachacl Allen captured fourth in the 60-yard dash and Barbara jacobs was fourth in the 440­yard dash. 
Bookstore basketballcommissioner Rob Simari has announced that he is looking for people interested in the administra­tion of the fabled tournament. Freshmen are especially urged to con­tact Simari at 283-8767. Simari also noted that the tournament sign-ups will return to their traditional March 10 date, to co-incide with Austin Carr's birthday. This year's tournament wlll once again Include 384 teams. 





Classifieds 
nationally televised game will be played in Las Vegas on April 4th.  132 lba. -Rob Rivera vs.  Bob Titser;  
Schools represented by players on either squad for the 1981 Classic  Bryan Bergrn vs. Tim Broderick.  
will receive $1,000 for their general scholarship funds. Since its incep­ 140 lba.-Fritz Fisher vs.  Mike Ruwe;  
tion in 1972, the Pizza Hut Classic has raised over 5500,000 for various charities. Albert King (Maryland), Mike McGee (Michigan), Gene Banks (Duke), Jeff Lamp (Virginia), Ray Tolbert (Indiana), Herb Williams (Ohio State), and AI Wood (North Carolina) were the other seven seniors chosen from a list of 150 nominees to play for the East.  •  John Conaghan vs. Mike Martersteck. 145 lba.-Dan Mohan vs. Mike Doyle; Steve Sierowski vs. Tom Bush. 150 lba. -John Donovan vs. Hugh Grif­fith; Paul Derba vs. Mike Mulligan. 1571ba.-Jim Mladenikvs. Mark Nasca.  
Last year's NCAA Championship coaches will handle the coaching  Mark Leising vs. Dave (Spider) Lockard.  
duties for this game as well. Louisville's Denny Crum will coach the  163 lba.-Tom McCabe vs. Ed Bullett;  
East squad, and Larry Brown ofUCLA will coach the All-Stars from the  Mike Marrone vs. Chris Digan.  
West. That West team features players from the nation's top three teams. Clyde Bradshaw (DePaul), Steve johnson (Oregon State), and Durand Macklin (LSU) will all see action. Other players named to the West squad include Danny Ainge (BYU), Rolando Blackman (Kansas State), Darnell Valentine (Kansas), Danny Vranes (Utah), and Lewis Uoyd (Drake).  170 lba. -Greg Brophy vs. Mike Crey; Dan Dooher vs. Rob Verlurth. 1nlba.-Mikf, Burke vs. Gary Holihan; Dave Sassano vs. Jim Burlebach. Heavyweight-Neal Ellatrache vs. Mike Collins; John lglar vs Mike Walsh. Super Heavyweight -Marc LeBlanc  
and Scott Zettek-bye.  

All class•l•ed ads must he retetved h'tl 4 45 p.m two days pnor to the 
•ssuft •n wh1~h thP. ,1<1 •s r\ln. The Ob1erver otftce will accept class•f1eds Munrlav through Fm18\l. 10.00 am 10 5 00 p m All classtfteds must be IHt'·Ua•d f>lther '" 11erson or through the ma1l 
NOTICES 
PROFESSIONAL TYPING. Term papers, theoea, etc. Tape transcription. laat year's same low prices. All work guaranteed. aardvark automatic solu· Ilona. 289-6753 
........... 
DON'T WALK ALONE Ill GET AN ESCORTIll Student Escort Service-On .Call Sun to Thu,. 7 to Mldntght. Call8283 (OBUD) At the NO library 10 to t t :45 pm. All student Volunteer~. USE ITIIIIIf DON'T BE AFAID TO CALLI 
USED & OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS bought, told, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. Tuea-Sunday, 12-6. 1027 E. Wayne (One block aouth of Eddy­Jelferaon lnteroectoon.) 
TYPING -S65 a page Also profes­sional rnumea done. Call Dan. 272­55-49 
WILL DO TYPING, REASONABLE RATES. CALL. 287-St62 
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS RINGS $20·$85 OR MORE WE MAKE HOUSE CALLS. 255-2402. 
Irish Flyers Flyong Club accepting new members Student polota welcome. Call Ext. 4234 8AM-5PM 
ILOST/FOUND I 
LOST -Camera -Wednesday February 25. Please call 277·7695 Desperate! 
LOST GREEN NURSING NOTEBOOK IN 203 O'SHAUGHNESSY ON TUES· DAY PLEASE CALL 4486 (SMC) OR RETURN TO N D LOST & FOUND 
lost on 2·22 on Angela one Spodel gold watch it found, please call 4332 Reward. 
LOST Notebook left 1n Math Bldg after Boo teat Tuesday Return to 305 Sorin 
orcall8~2 
LOST ONE OPAL RING IN ANTIQUE SETTING REWARDIIII IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL MARY AT 4956 (SMC). 
LOST -HP32E calculator last friday morn. It found. call Brian, 1773 
LOST. A CANON 35mm CAMERA (Gill· 17). PROBABLY LEFT IN THE ACC THE PICTURES (AND THE CAMERA) HAVE GREAT VALUE TO ME REWARDI CALL MARY, 8085 
LOST A WOMAN'S GOLD PEDRE WATCH WAS LOST ON FEB.27 NEAR THE ACC. REWARD IF FOUND! PLEASE CALL7842. 

Till Olllllmf' (USPS 5911 120) Ia published Monday through Friday except d11rlng eum and v~e~llon periods. ntlJIIIItmr Ia publlalled by ltle atudtrita ot Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Sublcrlptlona may bl purchasld lor S20 per year ($10 per aem11ttr) by writing n. ObMfWr. P.O. Box Q, ltotre Dame, Indiana 46558. Second claa =e paid, Notre Olllll.lndlana 
n. Olnlntr Ia a memblr ol tt11 Asaoclated Prna. All reproduction rlghtl«l f'IIIMCI, 
LOST: BLUE DOWN COAT SATURDAY NIGHT AT 914 SOUTH BEND AVE. BLACK HAT IN ONE POCKET. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 1615. 
LOST-SILVER MEDAL ON CHAIN­LEFT IN ANGELA ATHLETIC CENTER ON WED FEBRUARY 25. Specs ­double sided 1) sacred heart of Jesus. 
2) Mary with child, Latin script, Family heirloom CALL 8477. GENEROUS REWARD UPON SAFE RETURN 
LOST: 3 hand grenades while working food line In North Dining Hall. Please call Chuck Mason at 1715. 
.-
.............................. 
FOR RENT 

FOR RENT-UGLY DUCKLING RENT· A·CAR FROM $7.95 A DAY AND 7 CENTS A MILE. PHONE 259·UGLY FOR RESERVATIONS. 
AVAILABLE NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2 FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES 234·2626. 
WANTED 

With gasoline at $1.55 a gallon, you need all the riders you can getl Please, I need a rode to Northern Jersey (roght oft I-BO) or Allentown, PA. area. Would like to leave as early as possible, March t 1 or 12. Call Mike at4579 
NEED RIDE TO PHEONIX. WILL SHARE USUAL CAll MARK 3303 
I need a rode to Denver at Break. Call Johnal1177 
Roders needed from Boston to NO on Mar. 21. Call Kevon, 1800. 
Need rode to Dallas for break. Call John Hoggons at 8553 or 1715 and leave a message. 
need rode to ft. lauderdale tor spring break. Will share drovong and gas. Call Ed at 1850 or 1863. 
NEED 2 RIDES TO FT. LAUDERDALE, FLA AREA OVER SPRING BREAK. WILL SHARE USUAL. CAll KATHY 4077 (SMC). 
NEED RIDE HOME TO FLORIDA FOR BREAK. Call Davod 287·6986 
need ride to Miami or Ft. lauderdale. Woll share the usual. Call 3052 ask for Beres. 
NEEDED II 1 ride to NORTH CAROLINA over SPRING BREAK. Will share All DRIVING AND EXPENSES. Call Mike at 1424. THANKSII 
Desperately need rode to Pholly or South Jersey for spring break. Will share usual. Call Fran 8559. Any time. 
HELP I Please. I must get ride to Florida tor sprong break. Woll share the usual. Call Paul at 3682. 
Need Rtders to CALIFORNIA. Share Gas. FREE bed and board. •8420 
Three tun-loving ~un worshippers DESPERATELY crave Fl. Lauderdale rays. But first we need a ride/ Will share driving & expenaes. Can leave anytime. If travelling that way, please cal/ Molly, Hannah or Ellery at8008. 
Rtders needed to U ot IOWA 3-5. Cathy 7927 
RiDE ~;;;,d;;d' ~~ NY NJ CT area -can leave 3-10 3-11, 232-3156 
Need ride to Boston for spring break, will share e•penses etc., call Jill at 41­4960 
..............,... ...................................... 
Need ride to New York city for spring 
break, will share e•penses etc.. call 
Janice at 41-4960 
Need ride to PHILADELPHIA OR SOUTH JERSEY. call8114. 
I PERSONALS I 
................................................................ 
JANE-0, 
WHY DO YOU HATE SCOOP? 
................................................................ 
Ann landers says: Have a problem? Can't steep? Can't work? Can't? Killed anyone recently? Constipated? Fall down and go boo­boo? Well, all you have to do is GET 
COUNSELING I 
Jeff Jeffers is very ugly. 
:.\FiE vou.i:iiiiiov.Foi=i· i.1,i;ss.:.\ss:.\s~ 
SINS? 
rv'PiNa·;;;v·'HoMe:·u·Niv·.·;:;;;RK.iiR"e:.\. 
277·3085 
BOSTON BUS FOR SPRING! SIGNUP 
TONIGHT 7-9 LaFortune Bring your 
money I Any problems call Mike2836 or 
Jim 1528. Details will be provided. 
............................................................... 
lewis ladies unital Only 50 more days 
until Paul (that's Pawl) Somelolske's 
birthday! We demand that Paul's 
lamppost be reonstated for the occa­
soon. We want to see more of you Paull 
Paid lor by the lewis Hall Chapter of 
the Paul 
(that's Pawl) Somelofske Fan Club. 
············ •··················· ....... 
BOSTO TN BUS DETAILS AT SIGNUP TUESDAY. LEAVES THE 13th RETURNS THE 22nd. 
NEED RIDE TO FLORIDA , preferably Ft. Lauderdale area, tor 4 gorls, Will share usual. We wouldn't mind split­ting Into 2 and 2 So call it you have room for two or four. Ask for LESLIE or MAUREEN 7936. 
lost: Am way brown attache case with Aloe Vero info inside and other impor· tant paper. If found call Independent Cab Co. 234-0300 or 234·0932 and ask 
for Rev. 
NEED A DATE TONIGHT I Never spend another night alone I send for your in­formation about the computerized dating servoce. For complete onforma­toon and a computerized application send $1.00 to: COMPUTERIZED DATING SERVICE; BOX 2401; SOUTH BEND INDIANA, 46614 
"Vinyl" Jeffers for UMOC. 
Chuck Mason for Student Body Presi­dent (An imaginary character for an im­aginary position) 
Chuck Mason, The only Candidate frpm the North Quad 
Vote for: • Chuck Mason-Student Body President Rock Clip-Student Body Vice Presi­
dent 
CHRIS CALLAHAN, ARE YOU RALLY A GODDESS? THE FOURTH FLOOR WANTSTOKNOWI 
HI, JEAN ... 
HELP! Please. I must get ride to Florida for sprmg break. Will share the usual. Call Paul at 3682 
...and louie I Yeah John Falgiani, where've you been? BobbyZa 

MAMAC, HOW ABOUT IF THE SURF PART IS SERVED AT A HOUSE CLOSE TO THE GOLDEN ARCHES? 
TOMO 

P.S. I'LL EVEN DO THE COOKING. 
WILL the student who PHOTOGRAPHED the U.C.l.A. CHEERLEADERS and the N.D. BAG­PIPER please call Brendan at 232-6931. 
SHEP; Good luck In Terre Haute I Your might-have-been date 
ATTENTION NOTRE DAME MALES: Suzy blew oft Tom and is"'' t~r de'esl 
IF YOU LIVE IN NEW ORLEANS, HAVE BEEN IN NEW ORLEANS, OR JUST WISH YOU WERE IN NEW ORLEANS THEN COME TO THE NEW ORLEANS CLUB'S FIRST ANNUAL MARDI GRAS(no gambling, this Is the real thing) BAll TO BE HELD THIS FRIDAY. FOR MORE INFO CONTACT MIKE, 8710 OR JOHN, 8714 NO LATER THAN THURSDAY. 
For Sale: Trip for two to the Bahamas for Spring Break. Price: $500.00. Con· tact Barbara at 6372 for details. 
·························•···················· 
Haiwy Wodent: Congratulations on the 24 hour floor. It'll be great for my e•· perimentl 
love. Crumm 

DANA., YOU ARE ALWAYS WELCOME TO EATATND. YOUR SEDUCER (SEDUCEE?) 
K.K., HI! THAT'S ALL JUST Hll YOUR FAVORITE LATE GIRL 
Frank G., 
You sure know how to show a little farm girl the tome of her life (although you weren't supposed to discover the little gorl In mel)l Thanks tor last Saturday---the entire evening was un­beatable! But, do fi• those ·smelly and swelly" H.C. stairs-·· they hurt when you le.ll in high heels I 
A. Mags P S. This should stump you for a while: No money down, no obligation. Think about it. 
MURRAY 21.TUOHY 10--·TUOHY LOSES $11 AND HIS PRIDE. 
Death to Captain A•e. Moose Control, not the egalitarian forces of Cot. Zero Ma•. are in league wolh the Dark Side ... 
....................................................... 

Ooooh so UGL VIII The ugliest man in town-Gurdak's Back I UMOC 
K. Delaine; aha, It's not over yell The abuse has just started. Actually, catch­ing a buzz with yOu is the bestl 
Affectionately, your old roomie. 

Only FOUR more days leftl 
.. ·sENioA'.Foiii.1:.\L i:iE:i31srA'iirioN'·. 
SENIOR FORMAL REGISTRATION 
THiswiiei<oNi:vi riits wiiei<oNLvi 
---Lafortune and LeMans--­--tt:30tot:OO --­
OPEN A DOOR TO SLF OPEN A DOOR TO SLF OPEN A DOOR TO SLF OPEN A DOOR TO SLF every night this week 

LOVELEY is not. !IIIII PETE LOVELEY forUMOC. 
Than• to everyone on Third McCand­less for putting up with me these past two weeks. Amy, Patty, Dorothy, and Liz: Than• for your help and for keeping me semi-sane. 
M.B. 

The Rockettes llvel Be sure to catch this terrific act Friday night. Sorry Mike, you still won't be able to see us drunk. Right Julie?? 
AmyT. Don't you ever stay out that late again. From now on you will be aubject to a bed check. Just trying to look out for my little sis. 
Your big sister 

Dear E.-Boss Mike Due to your banishment from the Sun­cay night labor camp by the t>VII (but lovable) Col. Zero Ma•. we have decided to tell the world what has really been happening here in the Frozen Tundra under your slipshod command. Certain parties in Allentown Pa. would find your activities quite interesting to say the least. No need to make heinous denials We have documented proof and several key witnesses. Do you real­ly want us to mention your activities when you were alone in the DARK· ROOMI?I If you promise a lull retrac­tion of all mis-statements made about your ex-assistants, this Information wl' be kept confidential. 
We have the power I 
BOB WESTRICK: Congratulations on your job ... Julie will marry you it you convertlll Summer sure will be fun II See yal!l ME !I! 
Control: 
Fear not. Your legions stand ready astride the Neutral Zone. We, the Sin­semillians, will never forget the evil which the wicked Zero Ma• inflicted on our people -he, who once dwelt among us; he, the betrayer who slew his own kind; he, who even now causes our hands to tremble and our stomachs to quiver-not in fear, but In lust tor revenge 
But say the word, 0 Control, and your lagoons will let loose a reign of ter· ror and retribution to annihilate even the cruel Max. It is true, we are motovated by personal malice, lor it 11 well known that the depraved Max slew our h.mes. raped our women, and burned our sons. His thirst for mal­feasance cr. never be quenched. H1s black soul shall forever be stained. 
We shall never rest, 0 Control, until the vermin is slain and h1s deeds erased. And we, we who have suffered at his hands. shall never rest until the miscreant dwells eternally restless In Hades. 
We obediently awaot your com· mands. We are prepared to cross the Neutral Zone. 
Aoxomoxoa 

San of our leader, Oahuacaa 
-NEWBBAEAK­
BAZOOKA BUST KILLS 
31NCAAAOLL 
A man described as wildly indignant carrying a bazooka fired upon Carroll Hall almost an the Untversity of Notre Dama. The western portion of the 2nd and 3rd floors was destroyed, killing 3 and infurlng 6. Damage was estimated at$14.FIImattt. 
CHUCK MASON CHUCK MASON CHUCK MASON KILL I KILL I Kllll KILL I Chuck Mason for SBP. We ask your 
~-~P.~~-~!:...................... . ............... 
BETSY, your Mass Confualon notes are too organized-JEFF DON'T MISS THE CELEBRATION! 
NEED RIDE TO EXIT 8 OHIO TURNPIKE (OR NEAR) ON THURS 3·5 OR FRI. 3-6 CALL3212 AFTER 11. 
WHAT DO KING CLOVIS, PARADISE LOST AND TUES-THURS LUNCHES HAVE IN COMMON? BETH AND LIZ. THANKS FOR BEING SO PATIENT. (WITH ME AND THE PERSONEL) 
SOUNDS LIKE .. 
ARE YOU .READY FOR FLAP JAWS????? 'DUMP THE DEMONS C.RINK·A-THON" BEGINS AS SOON AS WE TOUCH DOWN IN CHHOWNIII BE THERE YOU LIGHT-WEIGHTS! 
MARDI GRAS II 
• MARDI GRAS II ·NEW ORLEANS STYLE· 
JUNIORS Weekend in Chicago Aprll3,4,5 Sign-up Wed. and Thurs. LaFortune 7-8 p.m. 
JUNIOR WEEKEND IN CHICAGO BE THERE 1111 
Cinderella. We found your black high· heel shoe al­ter Dillon's SYM. Call Dave 1845 or Ken 6664 to try it on. 
PATTY JACQUES-Happy Birthday B1g Girl II some mosquitos 
lewis II B·ballera, 
Get psyched for last game of season tonote. Remember, it's all you can drink if we win this one I 
Coach 
Maura· Not too dittlcult, eh? Good tob and good luck. 
Cog burns 
Pete Townshend says Can you see the real me? I dod and I do ('nether pun bites the dust) God bless you both. love always! 
Ninja. I read your warnong. Be warned! I possess the none emeralds necessary to dospell your dark forces of Kuju·kin. 
SAMURAI  
Q: Where do the young  Adontses" go  
to aurf in the Yukon?  
A: Moosel Beach.  

(Idea borrowed from Davs Cockerill, a thoughtful man and surely a tan ol Frankie Avalon and Annette Funocttllo) 
Moose Control 
LISA, WHEN ARE WE GETTING OUh PERSONAL? THE STUDS 
NEED RIDE TO EDINA FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL 1279 
Joe, I'm afunny. Why do you hate Goop? Moe 
(The above was a parody of those Im­mature anal onf1ces In Keenan. e g. Montgomery Ward and Moe, who, for free. litter the personal column of that for(l8ttable travesty, the Keenan Rag, with lheor worthlesl babbling about their own boring D.B.·ish lives. You tall under clueless. whatever that means ...... ) 
CHUCK MASON --Not to eliminate parietals, but to eliminate Ted. 
JANE-0 DOES NOT HATE SCOOP. 
THAT'S WHAT YOU THINK ..• 
• 

~--~~----------------­


ByEARLRIX 
Sports Writer 
Chuck Aragon performed one of the most amazing feats in Notre Dame track history. He joied a very elite group that was founded by Dr. Roger Banni$ter on May 6. 1954. He broke 4 minutes in the mile. 
Aragon's winning time of 3.59.92 beat a strong field that included 1980 Olympic team member John Gregorek. He ran the third fastest collegiate mile ofthe year and broke the meet record. And he's only run five competitive miles in his life ­all since January 23. r. 
"It seems sort of like a fairy tale. I feel I haven't suffered enough for it," the senior co-captain says. "I'm lucky I didn't have to go through a mental torment for it." 
But there has been some suffering and torment in his Irish career. The lowest point came in the NCAA finals of the two-mile relay his soph­omore year. Leading in the third half mile oftheft our-leg race, Chuck was pushed down from behind by Jan Boogman ofTexas El Paso following a shoving incident. Boogman was subsequently disqualified and it cost UTEP the overall national cham­pionship that year. "Knowing we had a chance to win the national championship and had it slip away was very disappointing not only to me but to a lot of other people,"

• Aragon says. "He is a.good half-miler, but he can be a great miler," Head Coach Joe Piane says. "It just took a while to convince him ofthat." Because the Irish track team is a very close knit group the victories as well as the defeats are shared ex­periences. "The biggest thrill that I've gotten from going sub-four minutes has been the excitement that it has generated among my friends -guys who know what it means -guys who have worked with me and can share in it," Aragon says. It is a good feeling to be symbolic of the work that coaches Piane and (Ed) Kelly have done. Its indicative ofthe growth ofthe program." Piane credits Chuck with con­tribming as a captain as well as a run­ner. 
"He is a fine team leader, not only by virtue of the way he runs," Pianc says. "He's really concerned about how the other guys are doing, whet· her they are putters or jumpers or sprinters." 

The team spirit was emphasized at an impromptu party for Chuck's sub­four minute mile among teammates and friends upon Chuck's arrival home Saturday night. 
"Instead of letting us toast him," teammate Jacques Eady says. "Chuck led the first toast and said, 'I may have run the 3:59 but you guys were with me all the way,' That's Chuck Aragon." 
Aragon has qualified for the in­door nationals each year. His fresh­man year Aragon did it in the half-mile and in the past two seasons as a member of the Irish two-mile relay. The summer before his sopho­more year Aragon was a member of the United States National Junior Team that competed in West Ger­many and the Soviet Union. 
Despite these accomplishments Aragon felt somewhat frustrated. "I kept banging my head up against 
1:49 in the half. mile," Aragon says. "I've become more consistent, but God only gave me so much leg speed." 
His recent success in the mile, however, has rejuvenated the excitement Aragon hasn't felt since his sophomore year. 
"I don't know how fast I can go in the mile," Aragon says. "And I'm really excited about that." 
It has elicited a lot of excitement among his teamates also,"! don't think that he knows how good he can be ," said senior two-miler John Filosa. 
"Chuck is baaad," says Irish long jumper and running back Greg Bell. "I don't see too many people beating him. I like just going out there and watching him. I think he can be na­tional champion at the rate he's going." 
"He is very strong. He was our best cross-country runner this year," Piane says. "He's got very good leg speed and he's got confidence ­boy does he have confidence right now. I can guarantee that he will be psychologically ready for the NCAA's on March 13th and 14th. 
"He has learned to control a race from second or third position," Piane continues. "Ifyou're leading a race and Chuck Aragon is behind you, you are running relaxed. He can lead it also. That is the cornerstone ofgood running-control." 
Chuck Aragon seems in control ­on or off the track. "When I came here I set two goals for myself: to 
Bookstore basketball begins 1Oth season 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Sports Writer 
As warm weather arrives, and the college basketball season draws to a close, a new season dawns. Once again, the courts have been cleared .ofsnow, the rims are being replaced, and it is time for Bookstore Basket· ball. 
Rob Simari, entering his second full year a~ Bookstore Commis­sioner, has been working with his staff since early January to plan this, the tenth annual tourney. 

"We decided to return to a num­ber oftraditional Bookstore customs , this year in honor of the tenth tournament," Simari says. "For years, sign-ups for Bookstore were held on March 1Oth. That is the birthday of the patron saint ofBookstore, Austin Carr. This year we will honor that custom, something that has been forgotten or neglected the past couple ofyears." 
Simari announced specifics as to those sign-ups today. The registra­tion will take place in LaFortune one week from today, Tuesday, March 
10. Signups will begin at 6:00p.m., and space will be limited to the first 384 teams. 
"We have to limit things to 384," Simari says. "There is only a short time in which to play all of the games, and we would simply never get it all in if we allowed more than that to play." 
Although the tournament originally consisted of only 53 teams, which took two weeks to register, Simari says that a number of teams are now turned away each year. 
"I would strongly suggest that team captains be at LaFortune and ready to sign-up !?Y six o'clock,'' 
See BOOKSTORE, page 6 
Tuesday, March 3, 1981 -page 8 

break four minutes in the mile" and to be accepted to medical school," Aragon says. "At one time I didn't think it was possible to do both." 
Aragon will attend the University of New Mexico Medical School this fall. Aragon credidts his acceptance into medical school for much of his recent success. 
"Now more of my thought is free to concentrate on running," Chuck says. "Now I can give it the attention it deserves in my life. I'm happier than hell." 
Time is running out on Aragon at Notre Dame. But the n•emories of the past four years iJH. Jude more than just track. 
"When I was a freshman I was walking to class in my usual south· western pace and people were flying ·past me. I just had to stop and laugh. People were flying past me in the classroom too," says the Los Lunas, New Mexico native. "I realized that I had to shift gears and get out of my southwestern pace in order to com­pete. When I go back to the south· west I'll be able to integrate some ot the things I've learned here with the way I've been brought up. I'll have a more fulfilling life because of the people I've met here. Its made me a more competitive person. It is a good feeling to know that you can compete with the best." 
Not many people are flying past Chuck Aragon now -on or off the track. 
Poetry in motion 
Gymnasts startfourth season 
I can remember sitting on my couch back in 1972 watching Olga Korbut dazzle audiences in Munich's Olympic Auditorium. The little darling of the. 1972 games would enchant audiences with her graceful style and little girl smile. 
Lithe. 
Beautiful. 
Poetry in motion. 

And then there was Nadia in 1976. What Korbut had 
done in Germany, Nadia refined and did better in Montreal. The world watched and cheered and wept as the Romanian gymnast vaulted her way into the hearts ofall who appreciate what is really art. 
And it has always been just that for me. I have never been taken with Rembrandts and Picassos, Van Goghs or Renoirs. Not that I cannot admit to the beauty of the results of their work, it's just that I find much more pleasure in observing the creation of art; the ongoing process of moving towards the unreachable goal ofper­fection. 
For I am convinced that art must be a working agree· ment between the artist and the observer. Handel's Messiah, one ofthe world's great musical compositions, does not become a true work ofart until it is performed and individually interpreted by those who hear it. 
Which is why I find gymnastics to be an art and, likewise, the gymnast to be an artist. In few other ac­tivities can the observer actually witness the creation of an. It is something even the most pragmatic spectator can pause to enjoy. Because it is unexplainable it is believable. 
Agroup ofstudents and their faculty advisor, Noel B. O'Sullivan, have been working to bring this art form to Notre Dame. This is the fourth year that the Gymnastics Club has been in existance although its reputation ex· tends only throughout its membership, perhaps its membership's roommates and ofcourse the folks back home. 
Right now we should clarify the status ofthis group of students because to call it the Gymnastics Club would imply that it is an official club sport with all the trap· pings that naturally follow. Like money. Unfortunately, right now it is not classified as such, although the uni· versity is presently considering a grant of such status with which would come a $1200-a-year budget and a 
S6000 interest free loan for equipment purchase. 
However neither rain nor snow nor lack of proper equipment can detain the Irish gymnasts from their ap­pointed stunts. Led by coaches, Jan Galen and Dennis Wolfe, the group is an offspring of a 1977 O'Sullivan physical education class where a few of the students decided to propigate their interest in gymnastics by practicing together. They actually scheduled a meet with St. Joe College that year which the girls won but the men lost. 

Wait until the Title IX-ers hear about that one! 
Anyway, they had three meets the next year with schools such as Eastern and Central Michigan and the big break came when Notre Oame came in first at a tri­meet with Indiana University and Purdue. 
Notre Dame sticks it to the Big Ten. Again. 
"Basically we are just a bunch of students that like gymnastics," points out Brian McLaughlin, a junior from California who majors in finance and performs all the stunts in a meet. All-arounders they're called and Notre Dame has quite a few good ones. 
"Two sophomores, Randy Kelly and Ed Barrett, are good all-arounders," lists McLaughlin. "The girls squad has some pretty good athletes as well, such as Roberta DePiero, the women's captain, Stephanie Micek and Denise McHugh." 
McLaughlin emphasizes that the goal of going "big time" with fancy uniforms and a 1 0,000-seat arena is not high on the squad's list of priorities. "We'd like to go club and right now Coach O'Sullivan has nominated us for that. We need some equipment but we're not really looking to go varsity at this time." 
And that's refreshing. Athletics for the athlete, not the screaming fanatics who sprawl in the stands and demand to be entertained. Self-motivation, not flesh· pressing psych-out sessions that most people attend be­cause they heard ABC is going to televise it. 
Achievement for self-satisfaction. That's the true 
beauty of athletics. Ofcourse. if it happens to promote 
something artistic and fascinating to observe!, well, 
that's an added bonus. 
And that's something one doesn't often get the op­
portunity to take part in -either as a spectator or a 
participant. 
NOTES: The Notre Dame Gymnastics Club will host Purdue in the first home meet in its history on Saturday beginning at 3 in the Angela Athletic Facility at Saint Mary's College. Admission is free, but donations will be taken at the door. 


