• • .Country Wife -page5 

Vol. XV, NO. 98 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1981 
an mdependent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Constitution approved 
Senate confirms Lawler 
ByJEFF CHOPPIN 
News Staff 
The new Student Union Director and Comptroller were officially ap­proved hy the Student Senate at last night's meeting at LaFortune's Little Theatn·. 
In other Senate action, the Campus l.ife Council was officially recognized hy the Student Senate. Also discussed were security recom· 
mendations  and  the  vending  
machines.  
The  Senate  approved  William  
l.awler  as  Student Union  Director  

and Matthew Barrett as SU Comp­
troller. The Steering Committee of 
the SU had selected Lawler and Bar­
rett for approval. In previous years, 
the SU Board of Commissioners had approved the selections. However, the Board no longer exists, and un­der the new constitution the Senate must approve the selections. 
There will he no administrative vote on the new Campus Life Coun­
cil. The Executive Committee ofthe Board of Trustees approved the Senate's recommended changes in the constitution of the CLC. 
Off-campus and on-campus security we~e discussed at the meeting. A six-step off-campus crime proposal was submitted by Mitch Feikes. Highlighted in the proposal were landlord meetings, studies of problems which would provide concrete information to authorities, and acquisition of literature from law enforcement agencies to be distributed to future off-campus residents. 
Feikes said "one way to approach the City Council is to say that we have a definite crime problem..... most people don't hear about a third of the crime." He also stated that to 
make  the  proposals  to  the  City  
Council  more  ·effective,  the  
proposals  should  "be  more  con­ 

crete.....provide specific locations..... show thafwe've done work." 
Feikes also said that off-campus students should "make landlords realize that we (the students) won't rent a house unless dead bolts, bars across windows, etc., are provided." He added that examples should be made ofthe good landlords. 
Off-Campus Commissioner Mark Kelley raised the point that some security problems are "involved economically; the city doesn't have the money." He stated the case is the same for some landlords. 
The two features of the on­campus security recommendations were outside phones and lighting. 
Plans for making three phones operative are well under way. They would be located in the ROTC parking lot, D-1 by Flam'ler and D-6 by Lyons, according to Tara Kenney. These phones would be hotlines to security in case a student is in trouble. Proposals for additional locations were also made. 
Student Body President Paul 
Riehle said that the lighting situation 
would be researched. 
Terry Parker announced that no 
additional changes in vending prices 
would be forthcoming untiljuly 1. A 
formal analysis will then be made. 
Thomas Mason, vice president of 
business affairs, said to Parker that 
the administration likes to change 
prices on the vending machines only 
once a year to avoid maintenance 
costs and student protest. 
Mason said that the change in soda 
prices was a goodwill gesture. He 
also said that he wa-; concerned 
about the situation and made a good 
faith promise to the students. 
Holds Parliament 
Spanish colonelattempts coup 

Poet-musician Gtl-Scotl Heron spoke and perfonned last night in the Library Auditorium as part of this year's Black Cultural Arts Festival. (photo by Tim McKeogh) 
Heron discusses urban blues at BCAF 
BY MIKE DUPLESSIE 
News Staff 
Gil-Scott Heron, noted jazz musician, poet and writer, spoke ex­tensively last night to a capacity crowd in the Library Auditorium. Centralizing on a theme of"inner city blues," Heron humorously dis­coursed on a variety of problems affecting the black man, especially the potrayal ofblacks in the news media. 
Heron attacked the media's potrayal of black life as a "deliberate distortion." He contended that blacks arc "programmed" by the media, believing what they see on television to be an actuality. 
Heron urged blacks to spend their free time working in the com­munity, advocating the need ofskilled professionals in the black con­gregation. 
A self-described "urban blues-ologist," Heron stressed the concept of organizing the blues to make them a means of communication. Attacking the frequent complexity of modern poetry, Heron adv­ocated a simpler style ofpoetry which the common man could under­stand. 
Heron frequently punctuated the evening with his poetry. While at times humorous In nature, it often reflected a griefand powerlessness that touched all present. 
Heron concluded the evening with a selection of his compositions, 
dedicating the final piece to "the children of Atlanta and all the 
children in the world." 
MADRID, Spain (AP)-Members of a right-wing military faction opened fire yesterday in the lower house of Parliament in an attempt to take over the government. They seized the Cabinet and more than .~00 legislators as hostages. 
Kingjuan Carlos, who is comman­der in chiefofthe armed forces, told the nation in a broadcast speech last night that he had ordered the military to take all necessary measures to put down the revolt. '" 
Appearing in his military uniform, the king declared, "The crown ... cannot tolerate In any form actions or attitudes ofpersons who try to In­terrupt the democratic process of the constitution." In his two-minute speech, he called for calm in the face of "happenings taking place in the Parliament." 
As the king spoke, army units joined elements of the national police force outside the parliament huilding. and negotiations with rehcl officers inside the Parliament building began. Madrid Radio said ahout a dozen military police 
vehicles had entered the cordoned­off area carrying officers with riot gear. 
Juan Carlos ordere'd a council of state into emergency session in the Interior Ministry to take emergency measures. The Spanish news agency EFE quoted ministry officials as saying civil governors were in con­trol of the situation throughout the country. 
The leader of the coup was !den­titled as Lt. Col. Antono Tejcro Molina, a member of the paramilitary civil guard who was convicted two years ago of plotting to seize power, but was not dis­charged from the guard. 
He and a force of some 200 guardsmen burst into the chamber of the parliament, or Cortes, in the midst of a pre-vote debate on the confirmation ofa new premier. 
According to eyewitness ac­counts, Tejero Molina pulled a gun, pointed it at the president ofthe par­liament and ordered everyone to drop to the floor. Tejero Molina and other officers then opened fire, with bullets lodging in the ceiling above the parliament members' heads and above the press gallery. 
There were no reports ofinjuries. 
The rebel officer and his guardsmen took between 340 and 350 people hostage, including the legislators, Premier-designate Leopoldo Calvo Sotelo and caretaker Premier Adolfo Suarez, who resigned the post three weeks 
ago. 
About six hours after the parlia­
ment hulding was seized, the civil 
guard director general and army 
vice chiefofstaff entered the parlia­
ment building to begin negotiations, 
Madrid Radio said. 
A Madrid Radio broadcast said the 
council of state had made contact 
with "persons inside the parliament building" and had been told Col. Tejero Molina "will not obey any or­ders other than those of the king or Lt. Gen. Milans del Bosch," comman­der of the Valencia region. 
The conservative general declared an emergency in the Valen­cia, ordered a curfew and, according to EFE, moved army combat cars, mobile anti-aircraft, water cannon and troop carriers into the center of Valencia. But minutes after the king's speech, the military equip­ment began moving out of the central district, and Madrid Radio reported that the general had ur­dered his forces withdrawn. 
Ofthe nine regional commanders, he was the only one to declare such an emergency, and there was no in­dication the others were backingthe coup. 
Survey shows 
Incomingfreshmen drift to right 
ByDAVID RICKABAUGH 
5taffReporter 
Conservative attitudes are increa-;ing among incoming Notre Dame freshmen, according to a sur­vey conducted in cooperation with the Cooperative Institutional Research Program of the American Council on Education. 
The Freshman Year ofStudies has received the results of the 1980 questionnaire survey, which provides information regarding the entering students' educational back­ground, attitudes and heliefs. Notre Dame has administered.. the survey from 1972 through 1976 and again in 1979 and 1980. 
Nationally, the trend among stu­dents entering colleges and univer­sities is away from political liberalism to the middle of the road. Endorsement of the liberal point of view declined from 34.5 percent in 1972 to 21.4 percent in 1980. Con­servatism, however, increased from I 7 percent in 1972 to 28.5 percent in 1980. Notre Dame, on the other hand, appears to be less liberal, 21.4 percent to 28.6 percent, slightly more middle of the road, 48.2 per­cent to 44.5 percent, and slightly more conservative, 28.5 percent to z4·percent. 
The academic credentials of incoming Notre Dame students con­tinue to be impressive, with 52 per­cent having average high school grades of "A" or "A-minus," and 96 percent finishing in the top 20 per­cent of their graduating class. In the national group, which was com­prised of private universities having high selectivity, 89 percent reported that they graduated in the top 20 percent of their high school classes. 
Notre Dame was the first choice of 89 percent of the freshmen who entered the university, while only 76 percent of the freshmen on the national level went to the college that was their first choice. These figures indicate that 9 out of I 0 freshman Oomcrs had the University as their first choice. Academic reputation continues to be the major reason for coming to Notre Dame. 
Of the 1984 graduating class of Notre Dame, 3.2 pcn:ent arc black, 
1.6 percent arc Mexican American/Chicano, and 93.2 per­cent arc white. Comparatively, the class of '76 consisted of I. 2 pcr<:cnt hlack, 1.4 percent Mexican American/Chicano and 96.2 per­cent white. On the national level the clas.-; of '84 is composed of 4. 5 per­cent black, 3.3 percent Mexican American/Chicano and 88.1 per· cent white. 
From 1972 to 1980, Notre Dame freshmen increased their endorse­ment ofthe following objectives: "to be an authority in my field" (from 63 percent to 71.2 percent), "obtain recognition from colleagues" (from 
See FRESHMEN, page 3 
The /Gng declared, 'The crown ... cannot tolerate actions or attitudes ofpersons who try to interrupt the democratic process . . . 
News Brie.b 
Tuesday, February 24, 1981 -page 2 
c===~========~====================================~
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
President Leonid I. Brezhnev, opening the 
Soviet Communist Party Congress yesterday, proposed a summit 
meeting with President Reagan to resolve world problems and im­
prove relations between the Soviet Union and the United States. In a 
major policy speech greeted by a thunderous ovation, Brezhnev 
called for resumption ofU.S. -Soviet strategic arms negotiations and 
for limits on submarines and deployment of submarine -based 
missiles. Brezhnev said that In the first month of Reagan's presidency 
"candidly bellicose calls and statements have resounded from Was­
hington, specially designed, as it were, to poison the atmosphere of 
relations between our two countries." He said "the acutenesS ofworld 
problems demanding resolution ... dictate the necessity ofa dialogue 
on all levels" between the superpowers. "Experience shows that the 
crucial link here is meeting at summit level. This was true yesterday, 
and is still true today," he told nearly 5,000 delegates at the Kremlin 
Palace ofCongresses. -AP. 
Acache ofcaptureddocumentswas unveiled 
by the Reagan administration yesterday as purported proof that the 
Soviet Union, Cuba and other Communist nations conspired last year 
to send 800 tons of arms and other equipment to insurgents in El 
Salvador. While the flow of arms may have slowed in the past two 
weeks, at least 200 tons of those arms were funneled through Cuba 
and Nicaragua to the guerrillas for their "failed general offensive" 
against the U.S. -backed government last month, the administration 
said. The charges were contained in a report entitled "Communist 
Interference in El Salvador," which was released by the State Depart­
ment along with another inch -thick document, which included the 
captured papers, as supporting evidence. The department said the 
evidence demonstrates that Cuba and the Soviet Union are engaged in 
"a well -coordinated covert effort to bring about the overthrow ofEl 
Salvador's established government and to impose in its place a Com­
munist regime with no popular support." -AP. 
Marine Pfc. Robert Garwood, already con­
victed of collaborating with the enemy while a prisoner of war in 
Vietnam, was convicted yesterday ofsexually molesting a 7-year-old 
girl last fall in Jacksonville, Fla. The District Attorney of Onslow 
County said the charges in the indictment include taking indecent 
liberties with a minor and an attempted first-degree sex offense. 
Andrews said two new charges, first-degree sex offense and attempted 
first-degree rape, were added to the indictment. Andrews said the 
charges were added after talking to two witnesses and the victim. 
Garwood was arrested Sept. 5 on charges of attempting to commit a 
sex offense and committing and attempting to commit lewd acts on a 
child. The original warrants alleged that the offenses occurred Aug. 7. 
Andrews said that the decision on whether to try the sex offense case 
had been put offuntil Garwood's court-martial was completed. -AP. 
The University-'s Radiation Laboratory 
has received an award of $2,497,000 from the U.S. Department of Energy for the continuation of research activities in radiation chemistry and photochemistry. Funded by DOE and operated by the University, the Laboratory attracts chemists, physicists, biologists and engineers who use the facilities for basic research into the effects of radiation on matter. Many ofthe studies involve the use ofradiation to produce unusual reactants involved in attempts to design future energy sources. According to Prof. Robert H. Schuler, director and professor ofchemistry, the Laboratory serves as a training ground for , scientists from around the world. "The lab is a unique institute and well-known internationally," he said. He estimated that since its origin in the late 1940s, when it operated within the department of chemistry, the Laboratory has trained people from about 45 different countries. In addition to the current research staff of 45 Ph.D.s, the Laboratory has approximatly 10 graduate and 15 undergraduate stu­dents who conduct research at the facility. -The Observer. 
Speaking fluent Japanese, Pope John Paul II 
lavishe• praise upon Japan's people and culture yesterday at the start ofhis historic four-day visit to this land ofdevout Buddhists and Shin­toists. Speaking his newly acquired language for the first time in public, the pontiff extended his "respectful greetings" to Emperor Hirohito and invoked God's "choicest blessings" on Japan where Roman Catholics are a tiny minority and the public has shown little interest in his visit -the first ever by a pope. The 60-year-old pontiff, who the Japanese call a religious emperor or king of the laws, scheduled a morning meeting today with Hirohito, who led Japan through World War II as the "Sun God" The pope, who drew cheering millions during a triumphant six-day tour ofthe Philippines last week, arrived to a low-key welcome under a driving rain at Haneda Airport. Fewer than 200 people, mostly government and church officials, met him in a brief, formal reception. -AP. 
Cloudy today with a chance of showers possibly mixed with snow. Highs in the low 40s. Tonight cloudy. Lows in the upper 20s to near 30. Tomorrow becoming partly cloudy. Highs in the mid to upper 40s. -AP. 
Sexist stereotypes thrive 


The pending tenure suit against the University charg­ing ND with sexual bias in Its hiring policies is yet anot­her chink in the armor called equality that purportedly cloaks today's educated mentality. 
Yet this armor is offoil-like fragility-easily scraped away by day-to-day life. Complete equality is an impos­sible dream, and maybe this is not a bad thing. 
The word "sexism" is admittedly an easy one to fling at people ofthe opposite sex, but it is a difficult claim to prove. For all you ND men who say you have never had a sexist thought in your life, here is a briefquiz for your perusal: 
Do you assume, just because she is a Domer, that a woman's SA,Ts will be astronomical? Or conversely, are all "SMC-Chicks" mindless husband-hunters? Do you condemn the slightly pudgy woman on her way for a dish ofic«;_cream and a second glass ofTab? 
Do you like to toss women around? 
Or the female who has the gall to appear in class in sweats or jeans, not dressed or made-up to the hilt? 
Have you ever suckered a woman friend into doing your laundry, baking you cookies, typing your paper, etc? 
Have you ever helped a woman friend to do her laundry, bake cookies or type a paper, etc? , 
These questions address only the most superficial aspects of the problem. Women were, are and al­ways will be suspicious of a man's interest toward them. But this is no diatribe against men in general, because women are not social gods, either. Nor are we above any ofthese charges. 
Women, do you feel that you are not the least bit sexist? That you are merely the victims, and not ever the perpetrators ofthis nasty so­cial malaise? Here then, is a quiz for you: 
Do you assume that the guy sitting next to you in class is either a "throat," a "nerd" or a "dumb jock?" 
That all guys want from you now is a one-night stand, and that later it will be an endless stream of babies and diapers? 
That no male has serious intentions, or that, if he does, these will subjugate your own intentions in a second? 
Do you expect guys to lift weights and love blood and gore? 
Do you assume that all football players are stupid? 
The basic problem arises when the perception of a person is clouded by his or her sex. To compensate for this potential problem, many people are denying their femalehood or their malehood and adopting a kind of neuter personhood. But one's sex cannot be shed like a pair of trousers. Sex does make a difference, because it 
has shaped the entity ofthe person from Day l. So, it seems that a man must often repress his emo­tions to hide from the world the 'sorry' fact that he, 

Design Editor ............. Ryan Ver Berkmoes 
Design Assistants ............... Maura Murphy 
JeffMoore 
Layout Staff................................. Tonia Hap 
Michele Dietz 
Kim Kohl 
Anne Marl<: Mannion 
Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley 
News Editor ........................... Tom jackman 
Copy Editor ........................Connie Cooney 
Features Layout.................... Molly Woulfe 
Sports Copy Editor .................. Ed Konrady 
Typist ......................................... Katie Bigane 
Michele Dietz 
Systems Control .................... Tim I>chelius 
Ray lnglin 
ND Day IJditor...................... Dan Gonzalez 
Ad Design ............................. Woody & Fran 
Pbotograpber....................... Tim McKeogh 
unlike the scads of macho men who strut about, is a sensitive being. A woman, on the other hand, is often asked to act like a hard, cold, self-assured robot so that the world will view her as a "capable executive." 
This back-door method, designed to achieve a form of equality, will, in the long run, serve only to alienate the sexes from each other as it fosters a unisex society. No woman will cling to her femininity, at least in the business world, as long as it is viewed as a weakness. Along those same lines, no man will dare promote a softline approach to a problem, because people might then laugh at his "weakness." 
The worst case of sexism is that which asks a person 
to deny what he is, in favor ofwhat he is not. A man who is asked to prepare a frilly ar­tistic presentation, when he has been brought up to believe that such artwork is for women, will not do a good job. But, given some leeway, he may prepare an effective project without any actsy aspects. 
A woman, in the same sense, cannot be expected to approach a problem in the same manner as a man. Maybe an executive-type female would tend to employ diplomacy or reason more often than a male, who may employ more strong­armed tactics. No one can deny that both get the job done, but neither should be 
asked to emulate the other. 
That is one of the charges that both Josephine Ford and Delores Frese have made against the University in their discrimination suit -that they were denied tenure because they refused to emulate others. Univer­sity officials have replied that they simply weren't good enough, and were judged fairly and objectively. Still others claim that Notre Dame does discriminate sexual­ly, but that the Ford/Frese case is not one of the better examples of thi~ bias. Regardless, it appears that the matter will never be settled publicly, a decision anxiously awaited by all those concerned with sexism. And the senselessness will continue. 

Observer notes--­
The Observer is always looking for new reporters. Ifyou like to write, stop by our offices and talk to one of our news editors about working at The Observer. Experience helps, but it is not necessary. 



Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46JJ6 
~ditorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-• 'lief. ..................................... Paul Mullaney 
Features Editor ....................................... Molly Woulfe 

Managing ditor.......................................... Mack Rust 
Photo Editor ..............................................John Macor 

The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Editorials. titor..............................Michael Onufrak Business Manager ..................................Greg Hedges University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colle~e. It does not necessarily Senior Cot fiditor .....................Mary Fran Callahan reflect the policies of the administration of either institunoa. The news is reponed Executive. ws Editor .........................Tom Jackman 
Controller ······-···································-············lim Rudd 

as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a News Editt-• ...................................,...........Lynne Daley Advertising Manager ................................... Mack Ellis ' majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views SMC Executive Editor························· Margie Brassil Advertising Sales Manager ............Mlchaell\1c_Sapy of their authors. Column s~;>ace is available to all members of the community, and SMC News Editor ...................................... Mary Leavitt Circulation Manager ............................Bel~' the free expression of vacymg opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Sports Editor ........................................... Beth Huffman Production Manager ...........................]ohn McG~.ttb 
.. 
The Observer Tuesday, February 24, 1981 -page 3 
Faust to speak 

Mock Market opens tomorrow f••••••¥¥¥-¥-lf.lf.lf.lf.lf.lf.¥¥f 
By SUE KELLEHER 
News Staff 
Wall Street enthusiasts and all in­terested parties take note. The Mock Stock Market, co-sponsored by the Finance Club and Thompson and McKinnen Securities, starts tomor­row and continues through April 15. 
Head football coach Gerry Faust will open the Market in a brief ceremony tomorrow morning at 9 
a.m. 
Co-chairmen of this year's annual event are junior finance majors Ralph Solarski and Brian Krueger. 
============================ 
continuedfrom page 1 
44.9 percent to 51.8 percent), "raise a family" (from 71.3 percent to 76.4 percent), "have administrative responsibility" (from 28.1 percent to 41:3 percent), "be very well-off financially" (from 44.7 percent to S6 percent). 
Since 1972 there was a decrease ofsupport in the following goals: "be successful in my own business" (from 51.5 percent to 4 I.Spercent), "be involved in environmental cleanup" (from 42.3 percent to Z1.6 percent), "develop a philosophy of life" (from 78.4 percent to 6S.6 per­cent), and "participate in com­munity action" (from 33.8 percent to 26. I percent). 
In 1980, 41.2 percent offreshmen entering Notre Dame endorsed the statement that "the death' penalty should bt• aboll!!hed." In the national group, 37. I percent endorsed the statement. The level of support by freshmen was nationally higher than the level of endorsement by fresh­men entering Notre Dame on the following items: "abortions should be legalized" (from 64.7 percent to 
20.4 percent), "it is okay for people to live together before marriage" (from 4S percent to 21.4 percent), "large families should be dis­couraged" (from 51.2 percent to 31 
Auditions 
atlllSB 
The Theatre Company at Indiana University at South Bend, ( llJSB ), will be holding open auditions for its 198 I spring play, "She Stoops to <.onqut·r," on Monuay and Tuesday, Feb. 23 and 24. Auditions will begin at 7:30 p.m. in the Northside Hall Main Theatre on the llJSB campus. 
According to director jeffrey P. Koep, no previous acting ex­perience is necessary and auditions are open to the public. 
"She Stoops to Conquer," written by Oliver Goldsmith, is an 18th cen­tury classic comedy which features farce, slapstick and ridiculous situa­tions. The play will run April 16 through 18 and 24 through 26. 

WPM TO BE A CHEERLEADER? 

NOTE TIME CHANGE on Informal meeting will be held In Ia fortune's IIHie theater 
wednesday. feb. 25 at 8:15pm 
a must for those who Intend to try out this spring. 
notre do~e cheerleaders 
Acconllng to Sol~ld. "th< Mock Stock Mardet is open to all ND-SMC students." He added,"We especially encourage non-business majors to participate. It gives them a chance to become famlllar with the market and to learn the mechanics ofinvest­ing without having to take the actual risk." 
For business majors, the M.S.M. af­fords an opportunity to apply class­room knowledge in choosing stocks that yield high returns. 
The Mock Stock Market is a theoretical model of the New York and American Stock Exchanges. Stu­dents may open a $10,000 account 
.Freshmen 
percent), "divorce laws should be liberalized" (from 40.6 percent to 
18.5 percent), and "marijuana should be legalized" (from 40.5 per­cent to 24.6 percent). 
Peter Grande, Associate Dean of the Freshman Year ofStudies, stated, "the survey enables us to compare this year's class with past Notre Dame classes and the current fresh­man attending other universities." 
The national group of colleges and univel'sities which participated in the survey include Harvard, Geor­getown, Carnegie-Mellon, Brown, Duke, Cornell and Columbia. 

fot 02 01. 120,000 "'"""' "'' f3. 
Within the limits of his account or 
accounts, an investor may then pur­
chase stocks or sell short in 
whatever way he chooses. The ac­
count that achieves the greatest 
returns will win. 
Solarski stated that "there will be 
S175 awarded in prize money, with 
two first prizes of S50 designated 
specifically for the business major 
and the non-business major with the 
most successful accounts." 
Krueger cited the Mock Stock Market as "an ideal opportunity to test the 'Random Walk Theory."' He also stressed that only those on the 
American and New York Stock Ex­
changes may be bought. The stocks must be valued at no less than S5 a share the day they are purchased. Since the account with the greatest return or profit wins, the Mock Stock Market places no limits on the number of accounts or shares an in­vestor purchases. 
Starting tomorrow, a booth be­hind the globe in the Hurley Building will open from 9 a.m. to 3 
p.m. to facilitate prospective inves­tors. 
For a thorough analysis of stocks listed on both exchanges, Solarski suggested referring to Standard and Poor's Stock Index, Forbes and The Value-Line Index Stock Analysts. 
These publications are located in the periodicals section of the Library. 




Ch,em Shield 

~ ~ iC ~ ~  Hap p y B-dayt th0 eB e I -9Ir 5  ~­~ ~ iC ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  

l(..l(..l(..l(..l(..l(..l(..l(..l(..l(..l(..l(..l(..l(..l(..l(..l(..l(..l(..l(.. 
LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS A chance to study and live In London A wide range of subjects and courses Is available In Central London lor students of the social sciences. 
Junior year ............ Postgraduate Diplomas One-year Master's degrees ....... Research 
Subjects Include Accounting and Finance. Actuarial Scle•oce, Anthropology, Business Studies, Econometrics, Economics, Economic History, Geography, Government, Industrial Relations, International History, International Relations. Law, Management Science, Operational Research, Philosophy, Politics. Social Administration, Social Work. Sociology, Social Psychology and Statistical and Mathematical Sciences. 
Application blanks from: Admissions Secretary, L. S. E.. Houghton Street. London WC2A 2AE, England. Please state whether junior year or postgraduate. 

welcomes all NO · SMC students 
Weekly Specials Sandwiches Pizza less than 10 min. from campus TUES. AND THURS. CHICKEN DINNER SPECIAL $2.69 The Rib Shack 
St Rd 23 at Bittersweet Hours Tues. thru Thurs. IIAM· 9PM 
277-3143 Fri. IIAM-IOPM Sat. 4PM · IOPM Closed Sun &Mon. 



CONSIDERING A LAW CAREER? A representative of 
SOUTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW ABA/AALSLos Angeles 
will be on SMC campus Tuesday, February 24 7:00-9:09pm 356 Madeleva Saint Mary's College 
Underclassmen welcome, as well as seniors 
d graduate students. Applications will continue to be accepted during ·the spring. Hyou would like to learn more about the profession , the law 
school experience., and the application process, please join . us for an informal meeting. 
Southwestern Uni'·<'r.iity School of l.<~w has serwcl the public, since 1911 as a nonprofit, nonSt~'larian 
education~ in~ti~ution. Southwestern University 
Jocs not d1scnmmatc on the..• basis of race color ~x, religion, national or t'thnic ori~in, ~ hamlirap 
m connl"dion with admission to the school or in the administration of any of it~ educational: employment, financial aiJ, ,;cholarship, or ""dent 
activity programs. 




_Ihe-=Obset:ver======= 
~c:)cJlC3L=-~=======================T=u=es=da=y=,F=e=br=u=ary=·=24=,=19=8=l==p=a~ge~4 
Campus 
•4:30 
p.m. -biology dept. seminar, "the characterization and physiological role of insect steroid hydroxylases," dr. stan I. smith, bowling green st. u., 278 galvin. 

• 
7,9,11 p.m. film, "silverstreak,"engineering auditorium, sponsor: ieee, $1. 


•7  p.m.  - discussion,  "the  
american  press:  to  hell  with  
morals?"  room  108 o'shag.  

sponsor: the american political forum. 
•7 
p.m. -film, "a woman of paris," annenberg auditorium, snite museum of art. sponsor: dept ofenglish. 

•7 
and 8:30p.m. -basketball, high school sectionals, ace. 

•7:30 
p.m. -lecture, "urban housing: transformations in 19th century paris," prof. d.w. sacha, room 202 architecture. sponsor: tau sigma delta ( aia­sc). 


Suitcase Party tickets on sale 
By MARY AGNES CAREY 
StaffReporter 
A trip to New Orleans, including five days in the French Quarter, a beer bash in the New Orleans Hilton and a trip to the "real" Mardi Gras for only $6 -impossible? 
"Not really," says Jill De La Hunt, commissioner of"A Su'itcase Party to New Orleans," sponsored by Saint Mary's senior class. According to Ms. De La Hunt, both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's seniors can win the trip to New Orleans, or, as second prize, one senior formal package "with the date not included." 
Tickets are 56 and will be sold un­
til Thursday in Le Mans Lobby, 
LaFortune and South Dining Hall 
from 11:00 a.m. until l :00 p.m., and 
in the Saint Mary's Dining Hall from 
4:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m.. Only 200 tickets are available and all par­ticipants must be 21. The winning names will be drawn Thursday at Lee's Ribs from 9 p.m. to 12 p.m., with free beer for ticket holders be­tween 10 p.m. and 11 p.m.. 
"It's a new activity and hopefully will be very successsful," Ms. De La Hunt said. "Two people could easily split one ticket and pay only $3 each. The party at Lee's will be fun and somebody is really going to New Or­leans," Ms. De La Hunt said. 
Musicum performs 
The Notre Dame Collegium Musicum, a University vocal and in­strumental group dedicated to the study and performance of Renais­sance and Baroque music, will present a public performance tomorrow night at 8:15 p.m. in the Great Hall ofO'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Tomorrow's program will focus on sacred and secular Italian music of the Renaissance and Baroque periods. Featured will be madrigals 
Molarity­
: ARE You ~RE·-:>l-~-.,.u·VE-=---, I &Or A &4-LANCEP iiCKE'T'? 




-Doonesbury 



The Daily Crossword 
All Rights Reserved 


Bausch & Lomb ·Softens® contacts 


$692QSoflens~1 
contact lenses 
*professional fees and care kit additional 

20% Discount 
to NO students & faculty on eyeglasses 
Michael Molinelli 

Garry Trudeau 

ACROSS  35 Corrlda  61 Subjunc­ 26 According  
1 Starchy  cheer  tive, for  to- 
food  36 Surrender  one  27 Yellow  
6 Hebrew  39 AdjecUve  62 Comparison  pigment  
month  suffix  word  28 Sedaka or  
10 Long  40 Famed  63 Authorof  Diamond  
narrative  swimmer  "Awake and  29 Sorrow  ..,  
14 Space  41 Jot  Sing"  30 Gladden  
16 Discour·  42 "Here  31 French  
teous  Comes-"  DOWN  artist  
17 Goon a  44 Uncovers  1 Gladys  33 Russian  
bender  45 ASmith  Knight  novelist  
19 Esquire  46 Barbecue  singers  34 Filledwith  
20 Jeers  accessory  • 2 White  reverence  
21 Street show  48 Climb  termite  37 Ancient  
22 Young seals  51 Homopterous  3 Commotion  Greek  

23 Abolish insect 24 Escort 53 Mapabbr. 27 Biased 56 Chatter on 
32 Street 59 Major light follower 33 Aspects 60 Mien 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

PREPARE FOR 
MCAT.LSAT·GMAT II. SAT·DAT·GRE·CPA . 
• 
Permanent Centers open days, • Opportunity to make up missed evenings and weekends. lessons. 

• 
Low hourly cost. Dedicated full­• Voluminous home-study materials time staff. constantly updated by research· 

• 
Complete TEST-n-TAPES'1 facilities ers expert in their field. for review of class lessons and 


• Opportunity to transfer to andsupplementary materials. 
continue study at any of our
• Small classes taught by skilled over 85 centers.
instructors. 
OTHER COURSES AVAILABLE 
GRE PSYCH &810 • MAT • PCAT • OCAT • VAT • TOEFL MSKP • NMB • VQE • ECFMG • FLEX • NDB • NLE 
4 Bo Derek festival 
vehicle 38 Arbitrary 5 Bea or Jean order 6 One of a 43 Cheated 
trio 44 Cafe 7 Regimen 46 Gloss 8 Biblical 47 Tower town 
book 48 Check 
9 Old car 49 Roman 10 Verdi opera statesman 11 Sound of 50 Choir 
contentment member 12 -fixe 51 Coleridge's 13 Grant river 15 Road sign 52 Moth stage 18 Brilliantly 53 M.Coty 
colored 54 Handling 
fish finesse 22 Confined 55 -out 23 Ms Davis (stretches) 24 Notsult· 57 Nocturnal 
able mammal 25 Term found 58 Energy in Psalms unit 

by such composers as Festa, 
THE VISION SHOPPES ... 

Palistrina and Monteverdi, and a 
• complete professional • Free parking both locations 
W::~ Sl~~-CaiT2a9;f~3;~f5do
mass by G.P. Palestrina. Soloists for a 
optical services • Visa and Master Card accepted 
group ofsongs by Guilio Caccini will 
KIIPIJIN Classes startin
be Anita Hampson, soprano; Michael 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER soon! · 
Hay, tenor; GerardJacobitz, harpsic­
River Bend Plaza Belleville Shopping Center 
for lnfor'matwn About Other Centers 
hord, and cellist Sherilyn Welton, 
·TEST PREPARATION Ouhode NY State
337 South Michigan Street 4612 West Western Avenue 
I
continuo. 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 CALL TOLL FREE • 800·223·1782 
Telephone: 287-2856 Telephone: 288-5646 
---------------------~~---------------, 
Tuesday, February 24, 1981 -page 5 




Features 
Country Wife-Fun & Games 

... though she were true, when you met her, And last, till you write your letter, 
Yet she 
Wt/1 be False, ere I come, to two, or three. 
john Donne. 

M
ost sc:vcntcenth-century Rcstora~ion ~lay~ satirize 
the witty artificiality of Hi¢1 Soctety. English 
playwright William Wychcrley injects a robust raunchi­
ness in The Country Wife, however, zeroing in on the 
upper class' concern with cuckolding. yet passion for 
extra-marital close encounters. 
Some fine perh>rmanccs by the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre, under the guest directorship of Frank Camino, as well as eye-catching sets and lavish 
costumes mark this a play to catch. Don't be scared off by It's seeming antiquity. Believe me, the puns and in· nuendos survive the centuries unscathed. 
Set in London in 1675, the play opens in the plush parlor ofone Harry Horner Uohn Davenport), a notorious Donjuan recently returned from France, and simmering to begin new conquests. With the help ofa shady accomplice (Carol Losi) he spreads the rumor that an unfortunate bout ofa dread disease in France has rendered him 'unmanly.' Once shunned by proper society, he is now solicited to escort ladies when their gentlemen cannot. And the ladles arc all too wllling to be escorted when he confides the truth to them. 
Meanwhile, an old friend named Pinchwife Uack Connolly) has arrived in Londim with his wide-eyed country wife, Margery ( Rachael Patterson). Insanely jealous, Pinchwifc keep his new bride under lock and 
key. Horner decides to add her to his list ·ofconquests, and a rakish friend named Harcourt (played by joe Dolan) is determined to win Pinchwife's beautiful and virtuous sister, Alithea (Eileen Durkin) from her fop­pish fiancee, a snuff-pinching dandy named Sparkish ( Rkk Lechowich ). The resulting triangles result in "the most perfect farce in English literature-a whirlwind of inspired buffoonery," according to one critic. 
Davenport is fair as Horner, though he occasionally appears too solemn to be a dedicated skirt-chaser. Still, in one scene where he staggers from his chamberafter a tete-a-tete with one woman, only to be accosted by another, his pained exhaustion beats out Warren Beat­ty's in a similar scene from Shampoo. 

'• 


-~, 
\ 


Harcourt (joe Dolan) woos Altthea (Eileen Durkin). 
(photos byjane Ahem) 
Dolan is appt·aling as Harcourt, and Durkin spiritedly virtuous in rebuffing his advances. As Sparkish, Lec­howich preens and prattles in his beribboned finery un­til ont· ardently prays Alithca will marry Harcourt rather than have the poor girl subjected to his airs the rest of her life. 
''The resulting triangles result in 'the most perfect farce in English literature-a whirlwind ofinspired buffoonery, ' according to one critic. ' ' 
john Davenport as the amorous Harry Homer. 
Patterson is charming as the pumpkin bride starved for some big-city life. The-scene where she composes a passionate love letter to Horner is a classic. And her quick ad-Jibbing at another moment (her wig started to slip) brought the house down and saved the scene. As her jealous husband, Connolly blusters with convic­tion. 
Margery ( Rachael Patterson) and her jealous husband (jack Connolly) 
Raul A porteIa provides comical moments as a gullible 
London merchant, and Susan Gosdick plays his Olltwardly-uprighteous wife, who eventually becomes Horner's mistress, along with her lisping sister-in-law 
(Heather Fraser) and one not-so-squeamish Miss 
Squeamish (Colette Saint Hilaire). 
Jeb Cashin appears as Dorilant, a sworn-bachelor friend of Horner's, Colleen Quinn as a censorious old lady, and Regina Pratt as Pinchwifc's catty servant who coaxes Alithea and Margery into various escapades. 
Lighting cues were a little off Saturday night, but the sets, designed by Thomas Leff, are magnificent, espe­cially that of Horner's room, decorated in authentic­looking, seventeenth-century-style furniture. The Covent Garden scene is also striking. A rich array of costumes, ranging from gowns to plumed hats, adds to the pagentry ofthe play as well, along with background harpischord music. Costumes were designed by Diana Hawficld and stitched by Wardrobe Mistress Bernie Ryan and crew. 
The Country Wife ends with a candlelit warningfrom the three main male characters (Horner, Harcourt, and Pinchwife) about the inevitable infidelity ofwomen. Irony, irony. Who coaxes or drives women into it? In any event, this "miserable, rouged, tawdry, sparkling, hollow-hearted comedy" as Thackeray called it is well worth seeing, and will be performed again this Thursday, Friday, and Saturday at 8 p.m. in Saint Mary's ()'Laughlin Hall. Tickets are S2.50. 
Molly Woulfe , 

What'sina 

Name? 
Icalled a shop about a part for my vacuum cleaner. On the other end 
ofthe wire a nice voice told me: 'Til look in our stockroom. Call back 
in about an hour and ask for Steve.'' 
"Steve who?" 
An ingratiating laugh. "Just Steve." 
A student on the telephone says, "This is Tom." There arc half a 
dozen Toms in my various classes. 
In the restaurant the waitress greets me. "Hi, I'm Debby." Or Hitsy. 
Or MufiY, Missy, or Tammy. 
The waiter comes to recite the specials. "Hi, I'm Tim." Or Jim. Or 
Kim. Or perhaps Pat or Matt. 
Last names are not mentioned. And the first names repeat them­
selves so often that I seem to be surrounded by a great genial sea of 
Marks, Mikes, Pegs, Megs, and Cindys. 
Yet these days everybody's complaining that society is becoming depersonalized. We hear the news that zip-codes will soon be in· creased to nine numbers. We have a Social Security number, a student number, a Man-number (Notre Dame faculty and staff), a Visa number, a telephone number which runs to ten digits, a bank number, a laundry number. Whatever business we transact, we have to fill in rows of numbers. We worry that our persons arc disappearing in a 
computerized world. 
The trend toward depersonalization is pushed along not only by the proliferation ofnumbers, but also by the neglect ofnames. We live in a first-name culture. But shouldn't it be just the opposite? In the midst of all this computer-clicking, shouldn't we cherish every syllable of the name which is specifically our own? Shouldn't we pronounce and revere other people's names, titles, and suffixes to distinguish their identity? 
Long ago, when there were fewer people in the world and com­puters had not been dreamed of, people were much more meticulous about names and titles. A man's name was prefixed by Mister, a young boy's by Master. There were Aunt Margaret, and Cousin Hugh, and Great-uncle Henry. There were Nurse Hansen and Lawyer Collins. In those days people didn't have so much trouble defining their identity. Their names and titles singled them out. 
Today the world is getting more crowded every minute, and we struggle to assert some sort ofpersonal outline. People, young and old, feel helplessly reduced to anonymity, faces in a crowd of identical faces. "I don't know who I am," cries a student miserably. "I'm not· hing," weeps an old lady in a nursing home, addressed by the aides as Lena, with no last name and no title. 
Our names ought to be precious to us, and we ought to affirm them. The full name, its particular combination ofgiven name, surname, and any attachments, is one thing that makes each of us different from every other. 
Some young people feel ashamed ofa peculiar name and resentful Joward their parents for bestowing it on them. They ought to flaunt it instead of hiding behind a neutral nickname such as Sandy or Buzz. Wouldn't you rather be Francis Xavier Caldecott the Third than 7524816? 
An uncommon name makes people sec you as an individuaL "Hi, I'm Euphemia and I'll be serving you cocktails tonight." Euphemia's cus­tomers look up, startled, and remember her. "Good evening, I'm Oc­tavius, and I'd like to tell you about our spiced venison shanks." Euphemia and Octavius don't even need last names to mark them as special. People stare and note the faces of those whose parents t:hris­tened them so remarkably. Ifyour parents have given you a name that is one ofa kind, bless them for it. 
ProfessorJoe Evans, ofaffectionate memory, ust·d to call the roll in his classes with great relish, rolling each name on his tongue. He would fix the name in his memory by his deep rcspt·ct for it. lie would greet a student on the campus by his full oame. Evt·rybody loved him 
for that. 


R
eaders who saw many movies last year arc asked to send me their picks ofthis year's best and worst movies. Submit your picks ofthe year's greatest and the year's dog -along with your reason's. Those with the most interestingentries will realize tht· spt·cial thrill ofseeing them in print. Additionally, one entry wiii be chosen to rt•dcvc two free movie passes. Entries can ht· sent to The Obsen•er, or dropped off at our offices on the fourth floor of LaFortune in person. Deadline for submission~ is Friday, F eh. 27. 

... . 
The Observer Tuesday, February 24, 1981 -page 6 
...Fisher 

continuedfrom page 8 
mediocre one. Last weekend, Mark was very consistant, and the fmal match could have gone either way." 
Assistant Coach Rob Dreger agrees. "Mark's mental ~ttitude these days is excellent. If Mark has his mental tenacity in gear, a good match attitude, he should make it in­to the Nationals. His attitude this week, even with losing weight, as 
0 
been good. He's beo:n getting up ear­ly In the morning to do more run­ning and learn some new techniques. I've be•en having him do 'blind-wrestling', so he will better develop his senses. Mark is not slowing down at the end of the season as some wn:stlers tend to do, but he is pushing twice as hard" 
Fisher's background in all three styles ofwrestling-Greco-Roman, freestyle, and collegiate, has helped him achieve such excellent results this year. "To be a good wrestler in any of the three styles," says Fisher, "you should be well-oriented in all three, because all three will make you a better wrestler in any single oneofthem. 

"I prefer freestyle over Greco­Roman and collegiate because ofthe mobility of freestyle. I think, at times, collegiate becomes too restrictive and wrapped up in the rules. The rules take away from the spon. In freestyle, you have more a freedom of choice in what you can do on the mat. Freestyle in itself is more exciting because it is all takedowns, which add to the excite­ment of the matches, which adds excitement to the sport as a whole. 
"I enjoy Greco-Roman wrestling. In Greco-Roman you can't touch the man's legs or do leg sweeps. The concentration is on upper-body moves and throws. I wrestled Greco-Roman tournaments in high school. That has carried over quite a bit in my college career and helped me a lot." 
"Mark is more knowledgable about technique than anyone else on the team," Bruno says. "Mark is a very emotional wrestler, and this comes through when he talks about technique to the other wrestlers. Mark and Mike Mills are always keeping the team loose, always seeingthe lighter side ofa situation." 
After a year filled with disappoint­ments, defections, and distractions, there isn't much for the Irish wres­tling team to look forward to. However, for Mark Fisher, this year can be salvaged. 
Mark Fisher wants to go to the Na­tionals. And Mark Fisher wants to win. 
ATTENTI()N: PRE-MED STUDENTS---. 
How will you finance your medical education? Tuition costs at medical colleges throughout the country are increasing at an alarming rate. Student loans and grants are often inadequate to cover even minimum expenses associated with a four-year medical curriculum. 
' 

The Army Health Professions Scholarship Program may be the solution to your J... 1blem. We will pay the~ full cost of medical school tui­tion and requir~ed expenses for books, supplies and equipment. Furthermore, you will receive a monthly stipend of $485, which is scheduled to be increased in July, 1981. In return, you agree to a promise 1for future service as a Military Medical Officer. Graduate senior medical stu­dents apply for Army Graduate Medical Educa­tion ....you will be surprised at the quality of our training programs, the desirable locations of our Medical Centers and the salaries of our residents. 
The Army Health Professions Scholarship Program currently provides financial support for more than 1400 medical students ....we hope that we can help you also. Call for details. 
CPT. GARY R. PLACEK. 
AMEDD Personnel Procurement Ofc 
Box 7 Hawley Army Health Clinic 
Fort Benjamin Harrison, Indiana 46216 
(317) 542-2792 collect, station-to-station 
.Pearcy 

continuedfrom page 8 
great receiver ana tney (Notre Dame) needed someone to comple­ment (Tony) Hunter. I think Pearcy is the guy.". 
Despite all the accolades, Pearcy's head coach Bill Shipman thinks that his star running back will get not­hing but better. 
"He is a long way from reaching his full potential, but he'll reach it," head coach Bilf Shipman said. "He was highly impressed with the Notre Dame coaches and Notre Dame it­self He said the tradition and the at­mosphere hits you as soon as you step on the campus. He was impressed with the people and feels that he'll have a chance to ac­complish his academic goals as well as his athletic goals." 
Faust revealed that Parade all­
Americans Tom Doerger and Larry 
Williams along with big Many Rod­
dy ( 6-7 240) will vie with returnee 
Larry Kissner for the starting job at 
center. 
"You need a great athlete at cen­
ter," Faust said. "We'll pull our cen­
ter on sweeps and traps. Everybody 
laughs, but Jim Higgins can teach 
that." 
Most people center on the quar­
terback job. Blair Kiel will start out 
with the starting job, come spring 
practice. Classmate Scott Grooms 
and red-shirts Tom Koegel and Greg 
Knafelc will battle Kiel for the pres­
tigious job. Come fall and recruit 
Ken Karcher will enter the picture. 
"Ken Karcher was our No.I 
choice as far as we were con­
cerned," Faust said. "We thought he 
was a great leader. I was very 
impressed with him when I talked 
with him. His personality and the 
way he handles himself is what we 
want." 
Faust commented on several ot­
her ofNotre Dame's top recruits. 
Mark Brooks ­
"He has the ability to change 
directions without slowing down," 
Faust said. "He moves better than 
(Earl) Campbell." Brooks reported· 
ly has 4.7 speed in'the 40-yard dash. 
Mike Larkin ­
"He reminds me of(Bob) Crable," 
Faust said. "He is n tot as big, but he is 
vicious. Mike drives right through 
you. He also has great speed." Larkin 
can run a 4.6 40-yard dash. 
The Irish hope to sign at least one 
more player, and perhaps a second, 
later this week. 
Hockeytix available 
The Ticket Office has announced that there are less than I 50 tickets remaining for both nights of this weekend's hockey series with Wis­consin. In order to avoid a hostile Wisconsin crowd, it is urged that students purchase their tickets before game day. Tickets can be 
,purchased at the window at Gate 10 
ofthe ACC which is open from 9 a.m. 
to 5 p.m. every day this week. 
_PAINTCHEMIST_ 
(B.S. or M.S.) 

Major industrial coatings firm has 
several positions available in its In­
dianapolis laboratory for chemists 
holding the Masters or bachelor of 
science degree. No experience re­
quired. Substantial benefit package 
including cost of living. Positions 
available on or about June 1, 1981. 
Send resume in confidence or con­
tact: 
THOMAS D. JEFFERS, ESQUIRE PERSONNEL DIRECTOR LILLY INDUSTRIAL COATINGS, INC. P.O. BOX946 INDIANAPOLIS, IN 46206 
(317) 634-8512 
Buy Observer Classifieds I  
1iAZZ MUSIC COMPI!I!-IC)Ii  
IIEE!IIiG fOB AC! LEADJBBS  
TONIGHT AT 7PM IN THE NAZZ LATE APPLICATIONS ACCEPTED FOR INFO CALL JIM STEEDLE AT 277 1347  


-----~----------­


Tuesday, February 24, 1981 -page 7



Classifieds 
DILLON HOCKEYIIIII UN­
LOST: GOLD BENRUS LADY'S N~~d ii~~ o~yi~~-GA:~.-~~ii.ch;;~ RYAN IS A TWO-FACED CHAR· "Secret Pai"-­LATAN 
DEFEATED AND THATS THE
NOTICES WRISTWATCH IN LIBRARY AUD. atx8619 Ever hear of attacking Winos?
WAY IT WILL STAYIII! GO BIG

ON 2-16. IF FOUND. PLEASE Or student affairs under the
···························· REDI!ITUESDAYNIGHT AT 'THE 
PROFESSIONAL TYPING. Term CALL TERESA AT 2156. i.de~j;;;~~i-~iy ~~ed GA tickets for THE GREAT BOOKS--THE Dome? Be on your guard!GREAT MINDS MEET FACULTY 
RINK" BE THERE II 
papers, theses. etc. Tape the NO-Dayton game II Please call transcnptlon. Last year's same LOST: A PAIR OF EYEGLASSES, Liza at 1258. AND STUDENTS OF THE ··-ATIENTION CLEVELAND
CARE,GENERAL PROGRAM OF
low pnces. All work guaranteed. LIGHT BROWN FRAMES IN A .................. CLUB MEMBERSIII--­
THANKS FOR SUNDAY, IT WASLIBERAL STUDIES MONDAY,
aardvark automatic solutions. NAVY CASE. LOST FEB. 1:Z,FRI. Help! Desperately need two GA's Sign-ups for the CLEVELAND
GREAT BEING WITH YA! WE'LLMARCH2, 7:30P.M., GRACE PIT 
289-6753. CALL SUSAN AT 7859. for Dayton. Name your price. Cal I BUS will be held In La Fortune on
DO IT AGAIN SOON, OK II!! LOVE, 
~ • ...... H 0 0 Sue ,6777. Tues., Feb. 24, from 6-7PM. Cost
.. 00o0oo000000 
THE MAN
DON'T WALK ALONE Ill LOST: GOVT. BOSTON CLUB is sponsoring a
COMP. will be $29 round trip. There is 
GET AN ESCORTIll NOTEBOOK, LEFT ON COPY SRING BUS leaving MAR. 13. 
limited space so be prompt and
Need 3 Dayton Tickets GA or Stu­BENGAL BOUTS 
Price is $100 round trip. SIG­

Student Escort Service-On-Call MACHINE IN LAFORTUNE. IF BAING PAYMENT. 
dent Call: Tom 234-1367 BENGAL BOUTS NUPS in LaFortune TUES. FEB 24 Sun to Thurs 7 to Midnight. Call FOUND, PLEASE CALL MARK from 7-9. Bring Non Refundable STARTS SUNDAY, MARCH 1.

6283 (OBUD) At the NO Library 10 1686. Captain Axe enjoyed Prom Night.
Need four Dayton tickets. Call BE THERE TO SEE THE BEST IN
DEPOSIT of $50 Questions??

to 11:45 pm. All student Volun-Eileen at8042. 
CAMPUS BOXING GOOD LUCK
Call Mike2636. BOSTON II TO FRITZ, NASC, DAN, AND ALL
leers. Hey Jethro, 
USE ITt IIIII How 'bout another plate of


I NEED 2 DAYTON GA'S. MY THE REST.
···ATIENTION CLEVELAND

DON'T BE AFAID TO CALLI steaks and chicken? You Bodine. 
LIITLE BROTHERS HAVE THEIR 

FOR RENT ......... ······· ......, .........
CLUB MEMBERSII!--­

..... youllt Hartz lives no more; long

HEARTS SET ON GOING TO THE BUY YOUR BENGAL BOUT TICK­
Sign-ups for the CLEVELANDUSED & OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS 

GAME. PLEASE CALL JOE AT ETS TODAY!!!! GOOD LUCK TO '!~~-~.?.!~~-?.!.....................................
BUS will be held in La Fortune onbought. sold, searched. 

8306. ALL DILLON BOXERS The red-headed poacher I•
Tues., Feb. 24, from 6-7PM. Cost

FOR RENT UGLY DUCKLING will be $29 round trip. There is
ERASMUS BOOKS. lues­closing for the kill, but • Moo•• Sunday, 12-6. 1027 E. Wayne RENT-A-CAR FROM $7.95 A DAY i.NEei:.i 2:4··GA··ii ~oR.oAvroN 
Louie. I love you tool never run•.
limited space so be prompt and Jefferson intersection) 259-UGLY FOR RESERVATIONS. 
(One block south of Eddy­AND 7 CENTS A MILE. PHONE CALL BOB AT 4641 
BAING PAYMENT. signed. DC. 
Dr. allasBK I LOVE BILL DEMPSEY I Is there ANYONE who will go to a I couldn't tell you about MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Screw-Your-Roommate" with EVERYONE'S BOILERMAKER
....................... ...... , ...............

Emergency loans for NO stu­For next school year, furnished 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY STACY I Jack M? I am tired of getting because as you and I both know. dents. $20-$200. One percent houses. walk to campus. 277­
LPERSONALS I NO" for an answer! Call Mike as well as every other N.D. male.
love, K&B interest. De in one month. Open 360~ 288-0955. 

3260 Jil!.~?~~-t?Y ..o_f C,i n_~_i_n_a_tt!: ......... . 
11:30-12:30. M-F. Basement of 
Mary Karen and Kathy of Regina 5 ······ .................... "'". """ CONGRATULATIONS
LaFortne. Fmal day to sen1ors to INSTANT CASH PAID FOR IF BRUCE IS THE BOSS. JERRY
North: TOM KRUSE, 
apply is Friday, March 13. CLASS RINGS. $20-$85 OR 
IS THE LORD MORE. WE MAKE HOUSE 
We had a great time with you at NO CLASS OF '85111 
Mardi Gras! Will you be our dates

JOB OPENING for dependable CALLS. 255-2402. 
THE GRATEFUL DEAD IN
l WAN~ 

to the Tri-Military Ball? Jim and SMC FRESHMEN! 
person to work In college related CHICAGO--THURSDAY 
Steve (RSVP this space I) Thank you for your support ­
bookstore. 25 -30 hrs. a week. JANE-0, 
.. .................................................. let's do it agaml ...VOTE
PANDORAS BOOKS, 937 S. Bend WHY DO YOU HATE SCOOP? 
FUNERAL FRIDAY--THE
Beth and Jane from Holy Cross. MURPHY
Av. 233·2342 Need ride to Chicago Saturday af­FOURTH FLOOR 
Thanks being

ter SMC Junior Class Formal. Call for sucl't nice HOCTER 
................ ········ ............ . 

Blackjack dealers and gracious DRAKEBIG BOOK SALE on all theology John Higgins at 1715 or 8553. 
HOW FAR CAN $6 SEND YOU? THINKING ABOUT LIVING OFF
losers Saturday night at Mardi HUGHESand sc1ence !Illes. Used bks. 5& 
ALL THE WAY TO NEW OR­CAMPUS NEXT YEAR?'? COME 
off or 2 for 1 use pnce. New bks. Desperately need ride to Dallas or Gras. Please call me at 277-1347 for Sophomore Class Officers. on
LEANS! SMC SENIOR CLASS TO AN O.C. INFORMATION SES­
so that I may thank you again. Feb. 24 2& off. PANDORAS BOOKS, 937 any surrounding area (including PRESENTS A SUITCASE PARTY! SION IN SMC CLUBHOUSE 
S. Bend Av. 233-2342 Arkansas or O~lahoma) for Jim I rom Off-Campus
FEB. 26 AT LEE'S. CHECK POS­TONIGHT AT-6:30P.M. II! I .
spring break. Will share cost. Dennis Durbin, Kevin Callahan
TERS FOR TICKET LOCATIONS. 

TYPING--$ 65 a page. Also Michele41-5110 BADIN HALL would like to wish and Jeff Bescher are three of the
SHEILA, OH YOU'RE LOOKIN' 
professional resumes done. Call GIOVANNA PIMENTA A happy Greatest Guys 1n the world!
EVEN A ROOM IN MOTEL ·6 SOOO FINE MAMA. OOOOOHHDan, 272-5549. 
Need ride to Dallas area for birthday this Wedensday. Happy How's that for a personal.
COSTS $11.951 SECOND PRIZE BAAA BA LET'S GET TOGETHER 
spring break. Will share ex­birthday Saturday FRANCIS guys??
SENDS YOU TO THE SENIOR AND BOOGIE SOON. ALWAYS.
COUGHLIN. BADIN would alsoBOSTON BUS for SRING BREAK penses. Call rona at 3704. 

FORMAL. SMC SENIOR CLASS J.M.
like to wish a wonderful year to Tuesday: Vote DZIMINSKI SIGNUP TUES. 7-9 in SUITCASE PARTY AT LEE'S FEB. 
LAFORTUNE Bring $50 I NEED A RIDE TO EMTSBURG. 26. It's other February babes; TINA BUNKER DENMARK, USA MCNELIS, TAM­0: How do you describe lustful BURNS
MARYLAND( MSM COLLEGE) OR GEITYSBG. PA-ANYTIME. JOE 

DEPOSIT. Call Mike 2836 1f any 
MY SESTAK, TERRI GERARD, women in the Yukon? CLARK
questions Presentation & Discussion 'How A: They·re promoosecuous! Jr. Class Officers 
1142 MARIA CAFARELLI, PAULA COR­
.........................................
to Identify a Drinking Problem (You may -may not be CRYSTAL ROCKS at Fat Wally's and What to do About lt... To all you Darners, especially the RIGAN. HELEN GORMAN, DON­or ­
Mon­

surprised to know that joke wasNA SCHAEFFER, COLLEEN
NEED RIDE TO PITTSBURGH three at Pangborn who would !Ike SHORT.
this Saturday, Feb 28. Come and day, March 2 6:00 PM Room 28 
contributed by the wonderful get rowdy with good· time Rock'n Holy Cross Hall, SMC 
AREA THURS. FEB. 26 OR FRI. to meet her and the 6'2" one at
ladies of fourth floor Farley.)Roll by CRYSTAL 
FEB. 27. CAN OFFER RETURN Pangborn who she'd like to meet:
Moose Control

TRANSPORTATION. CALL TIM open a door to the sophomore Today is the infamous Kathleen
Blast-off: Entering the World of

6933. literary festival march 1-7 Murphy's (Murph) B-dayl Stop on
Need ride to Detro1t-Southlield Work Seminar concerning the SCOOP SULLIVAN MAKES by McCandless or call her to giveweekend of March 6 Call D1ck Transition from College to the
2 RIDES NEEDED TO So. Scenic tours to Corby's, leaving GRAD SCHOOL! her your best. Don't miss this1484 World of Work and Comments on
FLORIDA FRI. 13 MARCH. WILL from Taylor St. Contact LESLIE Yes. it's true! If he can, maybe I chance of a lifelimell Happy 19th 
the First Few Years after College 

SHARE DRIVING, EXPENSES. MULLIGAN or PATTI REIDER for can... Murphy!!
pesented by recent SMC 


the ride of your life. Congratulationsgraduates. Saturday. Feb. 26
CALL 1487 Love, 
Mr. VerBerkmoes 

Your RoommatesLOST/FOUND] Need nde to Chicago this To the entire Mardi Gras Commit­
9:00-12:00 AM Carroll Hall. Made leva SMC tee: CONGRATULATIONS on pul­DENNIS,JIM.TED,PJ,KEVIN,& Puff.

weekend. Call John Higgins at 
...................... 

ling off the best MG yeti What a ·BOB--Watch where you're sprayingFour years in Notre Dame? Why1715 or8661 crew! What a weeki What a party! THANKS FOR THE GREAT that repellent. It hurts my eyes LOST. ONE 14 KT GOLD not buy a house and l1ve almost 
TIME SATURDAY NIGHT! POKER ZopperWanted. Alders to New Orleans.
BRACELET WITH INITIALS. 
rent free. Let your equity pay your Daniel-Congratulations, Mr. GAME TO BE CONTINUED ONLeavelto26. Return 3<.4 Call Kathy PLEASE CALL4336 rent. Call Motts at House of Realty 

Chairman and welcome back to FRIDAY NIGHT AT 11 for details, 289-7966 or 674-8512
6914, or232-6616. Pat, You will be a great catch 
the room! We're so glad to have PM.(JEWELRY DOESN'T some
............................ for lucky girl! Thanks for
LOST. EYEGLASSES, RIMLESS, evenings. 
you back-Tammy is tired of run­COUNT) BE THERE OR ELSE TED 
··DESPERATELY NEEDED--playing Dear Abby" last night. ning your section meetings for THE HEAD WILL BE AFTER YOU.
BROWN CASE. 127 NIEUWLAND. 
LAST THURSDAY. CALL JOE 4 Dayton GA's Will pay BIG Love.
Phantom Fertilizer: Six months !II 

you I Love. The Quint LOVE, THE GIRLS FROM PW 304 
1163 BUCKS for them! Please call TH
LOVE YOU!II Princess &342Carol X2849. 
jackie pagley will

LOST. AT BP PARTY FRIDAY . . . .... . .. . .. ' ..' ' .. . . . ' .' . .. . . .. . .' .... . . . ..... . . . .' be accepting Fagan, Alison, Annie, Elizabeth,
SENIOR BAR SENIOR BAR 

birthday kisses between the Knees--Lll,
NIGHT, RED PLAID SCARF. need ride to chicago for break. Scribbles. Ames. Carol,
SENIOR BAR SENIOR hours of 8 pm and 10 10 201 Keep swearing and I'll keep kis-Melinda, Tex. Mo, Cheri. Nancy,PLEASE CALL 1284. mary fran 7992 BAR SEMI-FORMAL pasquerilla. Didn't think I'd do it sing .... 

Patti, Colleen--­SEMI-FORMAL SEMI­
LOST. MEN'S FUR LINED LEAT· need a nde back to NO from the MARCH 1 YES SUN-Jake! Happy 20th Birthday! Skinny ! know you all love seeing your
FORMAL HER GLOVES IN BP ON JUNIOR 
Cleveland area this Sun. March 1 names in print. Have a great week 
DAY NIGHT PARENTS WEEKEND. CALL 
Call1333 Jeff Jeffers for UMOC. Luke. and let's hope for an AWESOME
9:00-2:00 

............ Thanks for leaving the other weedendl
1284. 
$15.00 PER COUPLE FROM RUSH STREET TO BROAD night after I carried all those

Need nde to ST LOUIS the Love,
TICKETS AT SENIOR BAR STREET -SMOKEY JOE'S chairs down to my room-I'!! never Your friend who works at the Ob­

weekend of Feb 28 or Mar 7. Call Bob at 1066 WE'LL BE THERE ON MARCH30 forgive you. server. 
LOST: ELECTRIC TIMEX 
WATCH, BLACK BAND, ON J.H. 
SEE YOU THERE ORS. MIKE, Tennessee
SATURDAY NIGHT AROUND Thanks for the cheap sex" on 
PLEASE. MUST GET AIDE TO PAULEY, HUFFY, JIM, SKIP, Tennessee (my braire pal)-­
SOUTH QUAD CALL KEN, 3779. the quad. 
FLORIDA FOR SPRING BREAK. RICHIE. BILL. VICKI AND THE ---Need a ride to Boulder. 1 think we're both a little crazy
M.M. 

REST OF MY FRIENDS FROM Colorado. Will share gas & ex­
Will share the usual. Call Paul at workmg so hard--we need a 3662 
LOST Tl 58C CALCULATOR IN FLAP JAWS! EAT YOUR HEART penses. If you can help, call Anne break. else we'll turn Into hor­
NORTH DINING HALL ON Ann Landers says: 
OUT RALPH!!! x2875.---nets! Thanks tor listening when I
to1?to81. CALL KAREN AT 1263. Have a problem? Can't sleep? 
.. .............................................. .. ramble on about my love affairs. 
Can't work? Can't? Killed anyone 


TUESDAY NIGHT, COME OUTTO PLEASEIll Luvya.
Fall

LOST; one LEACH raquetball recently? Constipated? SEE THE DILLON BIG RED I need a cure for teeth clenching. Too much.
racket... brown... if found please down and go boo-boo?
FOR SALE HOCKEY TEAM CONTINUE I'm bang bitten to death.
call x6862 .. after 1 t :00. Well, all you have to do is GET 

THEIR HOT STREAK OF VIC­Mr. No-Doz Scoop.
COUNSELING! 

TORIES AGAINST THE HOLY Congratsl (Watch Jane-o trans­LOST: Georgetown 1ersey last CROSS HOGS. SEE THE DUG­The death star is ready your Lord. fer now). 
Thursday in ACC Fieldhouse. If 
For Sale: STANLEY KAPLAN GAN BROTHERS. OUt, DANNY IN Love.
found. call Jeff 8844. LONG ISLAND CLUB BUS lor
MEDCAT Manuals $50. Call Brian THE NETS, THE WHALE. CHIP­TOM FROM ZAHM, A LATE Molly 
.. .. . . . . . . . . . . . .... Spring break. sign-ups on Tues­
1847 PER. PRO??. AND ALL THE THANKS FOR THE V-DAY
Found. 1 pair of Keys, 3 Keys on day, February 24 at 7:00PM. Utile GANG IN ACTION. BE THERE IIIII CARNATIONS. YOU MADE OUR Mary D ..
ring at Rockne Gym Phone 1487 Theatre. La Fortuune. Must pay 
GO DILLON GO DILLON GO DIL­DAY. Here ya go. Why aren't you up
to identify. full amouunt when signing up. 
LON IIIII GIRLS FROM PW 304 here? 


LOST. BLACK WALLET AT THE same as it ever was 
Who stole the Dillon Flag? Mr. McMurtrie--The is
A.C.C.. THURSDAY. FEB 19. TICKETS ...... . . ... . . . . . . . ... . . -..... . red-headed poacher
Greetings from your N.D. friend 

closing lor the kill. but a moose
REWARD IF FOUND. CALL 232-OTIS IS GROll:ST 
Anne Marie: and from Barna never runs! 
0760. 
Need many Dayton tix. STU and Who says you never get a per­JOHN POKRANT: sonal? Well, here's one of your How can I be a "Charletan"? I HART -the WWW anxiously------------GA Call Monicaat41-5154 
... . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . .. . . . . . .. . . You have caught my eye again as very own, courtesy of me. Hope it don'teven know how to dance it. await the big bash this weekend! Thl Obaernr (USPS 598 920) Is I NEED MANY DAYTON TIX, STU­you have done many times ""akes your day. Ryan published Monday thro~h Friday DENT AND GA--PLEASE CALL before. You. my deaf:' are a most Now, if there's anything else I To our favorite men in Howard: pleasant sight to see, and an can do for you--some advice, Cute chick into brotherly love, We had a great timet Let's do 11
~~~rfJsdr~~\:::~.:~ p~g~~~~~ BET~A~ 1715~~-277-8037···· interesting person to talk with. counsel. a massage: a date with needs ride to the Philly area for again real soon! by the students ol Notre Dame and NEEDED!! 2 DAYTON GA TIX Can we meet sometime to dis­me (hint-hint), or even my rendi­break. Call 4-1-5215 for all the www Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions FOR PARENTS. GOOD $$$ cuss this interest of mine? tion of ·out in the Street"--I'll be details. 
PANDORA glad to oblige. 
Holy Cross will easily crush Dillon good day.. 
~~~ ~f~~~::t~~)~~y $!~~rn~ Y::~ ~~~~SEC~~~~~-~~-~-~~-~~~~ . tlave a and enjoy ---Need a ride to Boulder, tonight -don't go if you don't Obaerver, P.O. Box 0, Notre NEED 4 DAYTON TICKETS, GA UGLY MAN IS COMING! your weekend at home. Colorado for spring break. Will like the sight ol Big Red blood. 
You know who

Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class OR STUDENT 232-0982 Save your pennies! share expenses. If you can help, 
• • ........

postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana ........... H UMOC is an equal opportunity ............... call Anne x2875.---Dillon is doomed-Swine Fever ~556. Need two Dayton GAs $$$ Jim is incurable. The hogs of Holy
charity. GO DILL.ON BEAT THOSE HOLY Tile Obnmr Is a member ol the 277.0331 • Cross will romp tonight.
HOGS!!!! TUESDAY NIGHT .... HEY--WHEAE'S BIG RED? Auoclated Press. All reprOduction BETHEREIIII! Guaranteed. rlghta are reserved. 
r-:-.-----~---------------------------------------­
Tuesday, February 24, 1981 
pageS



SROrts 
Pearcy no. 25! 
Irish sign more recruits 
By DAVE IRWIN ning. tolf, a 6-2, 190-pound tailback from Sports Writer The speedy Pearcy is the 13th Spokane, Wash., signed last week. Parade all-American to sign with the Machtolf averaged 9.8 yards per car­Van Pearcy became the 25th Irish. The highest number ofParade ry in high school, but there is pos­
.player Monday morning, to sign ana-all-Americans p1reviously signed in siblity he will be switched to tional letter of intent with Notre any one season was seven. defensive back. Dame. Assistant coach Brian Boulac The Observe1· also learned the 
Head coach Gerry Faust had ear­was in Andrews, Tex., for the sig-name ofanother signee. Dave Mach-lier said that the signing of Pearcy 

1981 NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL RECRUITS 
POS. NAME HT WT HOMETOWN
I 
DE Joe Bars 6-5 210 Farmington, Mich. 
I . 
TE Mark Bavaro 6-5 245 Danvers, Mass. SE Brian Behmer 6-6 200 Brecksville, Ohio FB Mark Brooks 6-3 219 Cincinnati, Ohio c Tom Doerger 6-5 235 Cincinnati, Ohio G Joe Fazio 6-4 250 Willingboro, N.J. TE Robbie Finnegan 6-4 225 Dallas, Texas DE Mike Gann 6-5 235 Lakewood, Colo. LB Mike Golic 6-4 230 Willowick, Ohio DB Joe Howard 5-9 175 Washington D.C. DB Joe Johnson 6-2 180 Fostoria, Ohio OB Ken Karcher 6-2 195 Glenshaw, Pa. LB Mike Kiernan 6-2 235 Newport, Ky. 
LB Mike Lane 6-2 205 Cincinnati, Ohio LB Mike Larkin 6-2 200 Cincinnati, Ohio DE Tony Leonard 6-3 205 Cincinnati, Ohio TB Dave Machtolf 6-2 190 Spokane, Wash. WR Van Pearcy 6-2 180 Andrews, Tex. Line TonyPiccin 6-3 240 Whitehall, Pa. OT. Martin Roddy 6-7 240 Lansdale, Pa. LB Tom Roggeman 6-1 215 Tucson, Ariz. OB Kevin Sherman 6-1 180 Air Academy, Colo. RB Chris Smith 6-2 220 Cincinnati, Ohio DT Jay Underwood 6-5 240 Danville, Va. Line Larry Williams 6-6 235 Santa Ana, Calif. 
Italics indicate Parade All-American 
Pearcy: Why he spurned SMU for the Fightin;g Irish 
ANDREWS, Texas (AP)-Apparently bothered by an NCAA inves­tigation into ~lleged recruiting irregularities at Southern Methodist one ofthe nation's top running backs has spurned a lc~tter-of-intent h~ signed with the Mustangs and has decided to attend Notre Dame in­stead. 
Van Pearcy of Andrews was one of the few highly sought players who remained unsigned through last Wednesday'~· national signing date. 
The 6-2, 185-pound Pearcy is the 13th member of the Parade Magazine 61-player all-America high school team to sign with the Fighting Irish. 
When Pearcy signed a Southwest Conference letter with SMU Feb. 11, he said he was 99 percent sure he would ~ign a national letter with the Mustangs the following Wednesday. 
But the story of the NCAA investigation broke the next day, and Pearcy agreed to visit the Notre Dame campus. On national signing day, he said he hadn't made his mind up yet. 
"When he signed with SMU, he really seemed at peace with him­self," Andrews football coach Bill Shipman said. "Wben the SMU thing broke, I was kind of hoping it wouldn't bother him, but obviously it did." 
Fisher ready for wrestling regio"lals 
would put the "icing on the cake." 
The 6-2, 185-pound running back is expected to compete for the posi­tion vacated by Pete Holohan. Pearcy is the defending state cham­pion in the long jump, with a per­sonal best of 24-6 3/4. He was third in the 400-meter dash and owns a personal best of46.8 in the 440-yard dash. As a sophomore, Pearcy was second in both events. 
Besides being an all-state running back, Pearcy averaged 44.6 yards per punt -possibly the second­highest average in the nation. 
The coaching staff will also try him on the speciality teams. Pearcy should not have any difficulties with Notre Dame's admissions office as he carries a 4.0 grade point average and is an excellent artist and musician. 
In fact, according to Faust, a sub­stantial portion ofhe recruits carry a 
3.4 average or above. Faust also related that Blue Chip magazine, another recruiting rating service, rated at least 19 of Notre Dame's recruits as "blue chip." 
"It is an excellent recruiting year. Pearcy is frosting on the cake," joe Terranova, who heads a nation-wide recruiting service, said. "He is a 
See PEARCY, page 6 





The times ofyour life 
(Editor's note: The following is one ofthose "Cheer, cheerfor oldNotre Dame!" columns that the author is notedfor. So ifyou're notin the mood, you might want to skip this one.) 
ROSEMONT, Ill. -And I could swear I heard Paul Anka singing that song made famous by the Kodak com­mercial where the cute little girls run around with pup­py dogs and balloons and flowers and, well . . . remember it? 
Good morning yesterday. You wake up and time has slipped away. And all at once it's bard tofind the memoriesyou left behind. Doyou remember the times ofyour life? 
Because it seems to me that Notre Dame and Digger Phelps and Dan Devine ;.nd all the players on all their teams have given the people who follow them quite a lot of momentos to paste in their memory books. Sure, Sunday's game with Virginia is the latest "greatest mo­ment" in Fighting Irish sports history, but that's probab­ly because it's the one fans best remember. 
Before Sunday it was Alabama, which supplanted 
Michigan which took the place of DePaul which 
replaced UCLA which ... but you get the picture. Notre 
Dame sports fans have had more than their fair share of tapes, coffee cups and yawns. Luck, legend and the leprechaun had long since gone to bed. 

Still it was touching for Digger to give credit to all of those in the locker room after the game, where strains ofthe alma mater and the fight song trickled in. 
"This is Notre Dame and this is what's so special about this place," he told his players. Then he turned around so no one but the person standing behind him could see he was choked up. Of course it didn't last long. But it was for real. 
"You guys are a part of it and you'll remember it for the rest of your lives. This is a part of what it means when they say Notre Dame teaches you never to quit ... teaches you how to be a man." 
This from a man who has no blue and gold diploma 
with Father Hesburgh's signature in the bottom right­By ED KONRADY perience", says first-year Head Wres­
hand corner. A man who has no Notre Dame dass ring,
court-storming, flag-waving "We're number one!" ­
Sports Writer tling Coach Brother joseph Bruno. 
no official membership in any alumni organization. And 
. screaming upsets. And that's ok, I guess. But it struck me
"Mark's career has been greatly ac­

his words echo the promptings of other Notre Dame
after the Virginia game that credit for the 57-56 victory
Not just standing still, but forging celerated by wrestling such good 
coaches who, likewise, do not have a Notre Dame de­
(and all those other wins as well) was getting somewhat
ahead, surrounded by the setbacks competition as a freshman and sop· 
gree.
misplaced.

maiming this year's Irish wrestling homore." 
Dan Devine, who continually said this is the best
Sure, it's great to talk about the legends and myths
team, sophomore Mark Fisher is This year, weighing in at the 126­
place in the world for a coach, an athlete, a student, a
and even the famous mystique ofNotre Dame. It makes
ready to achieve the goal he set at pound class, Fisher has a record .of 
professor...for anyone. His replacement, Gerry Faust,
for great barroom chatter. But it would be a gross
the beginning of this season. 29-1, including a second-place finish 
who begins every dorm pow wow with words ofadvice
mistake to mistake mystique (Who says sports writers
Mark Fisher wants to go to the na­at Wheaton that Coach Bruno called, 
to be thankful you're from Notre Dame.
can't be poetic?) for the real reason Notre Dame beat
tionals. "the best meet Mark has had. We had 
And Digger, who swears he'd never leave Notre
Virginia.

To qualify for the Nationals, Fisher a number of setbacks that weekend, 
1 Dame for another college anywhere at anytime. He's
Contrary to popular belief, there is'not a giant leprec­
must place either first or second in including a bus breakdown about an 
made a silent promise to give Notre Dame a national
haun that follows the Irish around· and clobbers op­
his weight class, or be picked as one hour outside Chicago. All of the 
championship on the hardcourt because he loves the
ponents over the head with a pot ofgold. Luck did not
of five wrestlers'at large' out of the wrestlers were upset except Mark. 
place and, as he puts it, "Notre Dame has done so much
stop Ralph Sampson. Orlando Woolridge, Timmy
ten weight classes in this weekend's He said that the breakdown had 
for me." 

Andree and joe Kleine did. Legeryd did not hold jeff
NCAA Midwest Regional Wrestling taken his mind offthe meet, and that 
And many more who have given Notre Dame so
Lamp below double figures for the first time this season.
Championship. he never felt so relaxed. Mark was 
much to cheer for. And whether or not you care about
John Paxson did. Mystique did not outsmart Cavalier
Fisher, as a freshman coming from more conststant than I have ever 
athletics, whether or not you even bothered to turn on
coach Terry Holland. Digger Phelps, Tommy McLaugh­
Buchanon, Mich., complied a 16-14 seen him. 
1 your TV set Sunday, it has to make you proud to be a
lin, Pete Gillen and Gary Brokaw ~id.

record in the I 18-pound class, an "Usually", continues Bruno, 
part ofit all. 
I happened to walk by the basketball offices late one
impressive debut. "Mark has had a "Mark has a good match, then a 
Great moments ... great memories ...
night last week and the coaches were there watching
good bit of tournament ex-
See FISHER, page 6 Times ofyour life.
films of Virginia. All I saw was a lot of papers, video 



