Interhall -page 10

' ' ' 


VOL. XVI, NO. 27 an independent srudent newspaper serving notre dame and sai.m mary's TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1981 
Nader outlines corporate influence 
ByJIM McCLURE Nader also expressed concern NewsStajf with the Reagan Administration's cutbacks in legal, food stamp and job 
Citizc:ns arc basically unaware of and auto safety programs. "Reagan is the powc:r being wielded by cor­too extreme for even the corpora­porations and take l'Orporate intru­tions," he: noted, characterizing sions for grantc:d, Ralph Nadl·r told a Reagan as "a smiling man with very capacity audic:nce in the Library cruel drives." Auditorium last night. Nader also stated that "it's un­
Nader, who spoke on "Corporate bc:lic:vablc: what is being done in this Power in America," noted that the Administration, even comparc:d to corporations heavily exert thdr in­the Ford and Nixon years." tlucncc in Washington. "The most Nader urged the audience to important factor in getting dectcd is stand up for their rights as citizens money," he stated, adding, "The best and rally against undue corporate in­invcstmc:nt in the United States fluence in their daily lives. "There today i1> the U.S. Congress. You get a isn't anyone here who doc:sn't sense milk lobby pouring a million dollars injustice about something in into senators' and representatives' society." campaign war chests, and what do Nader exprc:ssed optimism that they get back? They might get back today's generation of students can hundreds of millions,..billions ofdol­shape their world for the better. "I lars, over a period of years. It's don't buy the idea that there's far 
Last night, Student Body President Don M urday registration and study days to two days instead of
tremendously rewarding." more apathy among students today 
led the discussion of his proposal to lengthen one. See story below. (photo by Nick DeCandia) 
Nader pointed out that "it's hard than in the Sixties." to find a single sector of everyday life that has not been intruded upon 
by corporate interests." Accused assassin 
Several cases of children bt:ing killed by unsafe styling of cars were cited a.~ examples of corporate 

Hinkley pleads innocence by insanitynegligence towards consumers. Nader stressed that'many pedestrian WASHINGTON (AP) -Lawyers he was no longer dangerous to him­separate teams of psychiatrists, with appreciate the wrongfulness of his injuries from auto accidents are not for John W. Hinckley Jr. notified a self or to others because of mental one team appointed by the court conduct." a result of high-speed collisions, but federal court yesterday they plan to illness. Hinckley could face life im­and the others hired by the defense The law also says every defendant 
rather unsafe exterior design. contend the accused presidential as­prisonment ifconvicted ofcrimes in and prosecutors. is presumed to be sane and respon­Corporate interests also sailant is innocent by reason of in­the 13-count indictment. The law provides that a jury shall sible for is actions. But that determine consumer tastes in food, sanity. Hinckley's lawyers, partners of bring in a verdict of innocent by presumption is no longer valid once according to Nader. "The food com­The decision means Hinckley's famed criminal defense attorney Ed­reasor:. of insanity if, at the time of evidence is introduced that he has a 
panics have one major design -to 26-year life will likely be put on dis­ward Bennett Williams, waited until the criminal conduct: mental disease or defect. wrn your tongue against your play before a jury, including his ob­the last possible moment to raise the "the defendant, as a result of men­Ifjurors decided there was such a brain." Too many companies per­session with actress Jodie Foster. insanity defense. District Judge Bar­tal disease or defect, either lacked defect, they would need to detrmne suade consumers to place good taste Hinckley wrote that he would "get rington D. Parker had set yesterday substantial capacity to conform his whether it was related to the crime 
above nutrition, especially in the Reagan" to impress her. as the deadline for the notification, conduct to the requirements of the and, if so, whether Hinckley was case ofchildren. If past practice in insanity cases is which is required under federal law, or lacked substantial capacity to responsibile for his action. 
Nader supported his statement by followed, competing psychiatrists rules ofcriminal procedure. reasoning: "When Tony the Tiger would play a significant role in the Hinckley's lawyers also asked for a (till' Kellogg's cereal cartoon figure) trial -which is unlikely to begin split trial, with the first part devoted 
says something is good, what kid is before December. The experts to testimony about the shooting of 

Student senate creates 
going to say, 'No Tony, I don't agree would help the jury decide whether President Reagan and three others with you'?" mental illness prevented Hinckley March 30 outside a Washington Schools also fall under corporate from understanding the wrongful­hotel. The second phase would be 

full-time o-c position 

influence, Nader explained. "The ness ofhis actions. the attempt to prove Hinckley in­managemcnr of universities reflects A verdict ofinnocent by reason of nocent by reason ofinsanity. corporate direction -just look who insanity would send Hinckley to a Since the shooting, Hinckley has ByBILLKOLB borhood Council and would remain 
News Staff

is on the board of trustees." mental institution until a judge ruled been extensively examined by three in contact with the Off-Campus Commissioner, South Bend Police Last night the Student Senate and Campus Security. Student Body passed a resolution that recom­President Don Murday emphasizes mends the administration employ a that the director would not be a dis­full-time director of off-campus ciplinarian but would provide
Tracy celebrates 50t_h Anniversary 
housing. professional attention to off-campus Formulated by a Campus Life concerns. Council task force, the resolution Off-Campus Commissioner Kathy

Tracy first appeared on Sunday, of my mouth."
By HARRY F. ROSENTHAL ·outlines the services the off-campus Jurado will present the resolution to
Oct. 4, 19 31, in the old Detroit Mir­Thus the super-detective was
Associated Press Writer 
the CLC October 8. Ifpassed by the ror as a witness to a robbery who is created, to sally forth in print, in CLC, it will then be presented tocalled to view a police lineup. He Saturday matinee movie serials and

WASHINGTON -Dick Tracy, ((If adopted, the Vice President of Student Affairs
notices a woman in a cell, has a on the radio as the tough dick whowho matched violence with Father John Van Wolvlear for Uni­
could gun down a gangster and
violence as he mopped up the likes proposal would versity approval. 
deliver this seron to his tender
of H.B. Eyes, Flattop, Mumbles and In other business, the Senate dis­

audience: lengthen Christmas
the Brow, observes 50 years on 
proposal for
cussed Murday's
"Johnny Mintworth paid the price

newspaper comic pages Sunday -break ... incorporating into the 1982 fall
for living a loose, careless life. He
still black of hair, steely of eye and semester a two-day registration and

made his first mistake when he kept
square of jaw. 
two-day study break before finals.

company girl was
The strip was the tirst to depart with a who a director would provide. Brother Ed The proposal calls for moving the
perfume thief. He thought she was
from the "funnies" approach, Luther currently serves part-time as first day of class from August 31 to
cute."
delighting in showing death in grap­hunch and throws a punch, and from off-campus housing director, but his August 25. Registration would be on
Dick Tracy was even parodied in
hic detail: bullets passing through the masculine way she ducks un­duties as rector of Morrissey Hall August 23 and 24. The two-day plan

another comic strip, Li'l Abner, as
heads, a pool of blood, a body masks a male crook in women's prevent him from assuming the posi­would give students the option of
"Fearless Fosdick," a detective so in­
trapped under ice. clothing. tion full-time. having a "free" day between
ept that he once killed 42 people
Dick Tracy's "immorality" Eight days later he proposes to The expanded duties the Senate registration and classes: If adopted,

while trying to arrest a balloon ven­
brought complaints back in 19 31 -Tess Trueheart, watches helplessly proposes for the job includ~:­the proposal would lengthenand in 1981. Last May, the Harris­as Big Boy's thugs kidnap Tess and dor. maintaining housing listings to help Christmas break by having the fall
Tracy was born in the days of

burg, Pa., Patriot-News dropped gun down her father during a hold­students find adequate housing, semester begin a week earlier.
depression, prohibition and
Dick Tracy and another strip saying, up. Then this colloquy between the improving relations with landlords The academic calender has al­
gangsters, the brainchild of Chester
are marginal,

"These strips not police chiefand Trjl.cy: and neighbors, and becoming more ready been set by the administra­
Gould. In "The Celebrated Cases of
violence is the sole reason for their " How'd you like to join the plain 

available to students living off­tion, but Murday plans to discuss the existence, terrorism is grist for their clothes squad?" campus. The director would also be 
proposal with Assistant ProvostJohn
See ANNIVERSARY, page 3.

mill." "You've taken the words right out a member of the Northeast Neigh-Miriam Jones. 


Tuesday, September 29, 1981 -page 2



News Brie_& 
c===~========~~====================================~
by The Observer and The Associated Press 

Isreal celebrated Rosh Hashana Yl:'Sterday but the .Jewish New Year fell in the shadow ofa dispute between rabbis and st-cular leaders over whether this country's laws stem from its Parlia­ment or the Bible. The Supreme Court says Israel is a secular 
country. The clergy says it is ruled hy Halacha, the Jewish law based 
on the Bible. The religiim-state controversy dominated national 
debate as Israelis headed to synagogues and family dinner tables to 
welcome the S,742nd year since the creation ofthe world. The year 
is based on a counting ofgenerations listed in the Bible. Although 7'; 
percent ofthe populace is non-religious, synagogue attendance mul­
tiplies on Rosh Hashana, one of the few days of the year when peace 
descends on the noisy city streets. -AP 
Community hospitals across the nation may 
receive up to $1 ';0,000 each in federal funds next year to conduct 
clinical patient trials of new cancer drugs and therapy, according to 
the president-elect of a national hospital organization. David A. Johnson of the Association of Community Cancer Ct'nters says the S I0 million federal program will give many physicians working at community hospitals their first chance to perform cancerresearch. Dr. William M. Dugan Jr. of the Methodist Hospital staff in In­dianapolis said he expects several community hospitals in Indiana to apply for research funds. Johnson, who is executive director of Deaconess Hospital at Evansville, spoke at tht' end of a three-day national seminar on cancer care at the Hyatt Rt'gency-lndianapolis on Sunday. Such research traditionally has been confined to university-run hospitals and comprt'hensive cancer-care centers. Community hospitals approved for funding by the National Cancer Institute will begin clinical trials in I <)H2 into methods of cancer treatment. -AP 
A 12 year-old Michigan boy was in serious but stable condition in Pittsburgh's Children's Hospital yesterday following a liver transplant, hospital officials said. David Yomtooh of Miles, Mich., received the doned organ in an operation that began late Saturday night. The youth was admitted to the hospital in mid­August and slipped into a coma last Tuesday, while waiting for a liver donor. Doctors say that the liver transplant is the only chance of survival for the hoy, who suffers from Wilson's Disease, an affliction 
caused when copper isn't properly eliminated from the body. -AP 
Guards at the Pantex nuclear assembly plant near 
Amarillo, Tex., went on strike yesterday after rejecting a contract 
offer from the plant's management. The plant is to he used to as­
semble the neutron weapon when it goes into production. An 
auxiliary guard f(Jrt-e made up of regular plant workers will he used 
during the strike, Plant Manager Charles Poole said last week. Com­
pany and union oftkials have declined to give any information about 
the.' contract or why it was rejected. 'l'here are about 16'; guards at 
the plant who arc members of Local No..~H of the International 
Guard linion of America. -AP 
Hundreds of owners of new Ford automobiles, 
fearing they may he denied gasoline, rushed to dealers yesterday to 
have faulty fuel systems tlxcd after the Massachusetts tire marshal 
warned their cars were tire hazards. The tire marshal asked local tire 
chiefs yesterday to urge service stations to deny gas to owners of 
I<)HI Ford Escorts and Lincoln-Mercury Lynxes unless they had had 
the defects repaired. Marshal Joseph O'Keefe said a design error in 
12S,OOO cars built bctwt-cn August and December last year could 
cause a fire when gas is being pumped into them. "flow would you 
like to he in a gas station waiting to he tilled up. knowing that the car 
in front of you might blow up~" O'Keefe said in a tckphonc inter­
view. In lkarhorn. Mich., Ford spokesman Paul Preuss denied that 
the defect creates a tire hazard. lncidcts" have been reported 
nationwide. he said. but none resulted in serious damage or injury. 
-AP 
Elizabeth Taylorhas mad~ her West Coast stage debut in "The Little foxes." with some of Hollywood's biggest stars turning out to cheer her. Playwright Lillian Hellman joined the cast on stage for a curtain call Sunday at the Ahmanson Theater of the Los Angeles Music Center. Among those in the audience were Rock IJudson. Sammy Davis .Jr.. actress .'>1arsha Mason and her husband. playwright Neil Simon. and Barbi Benton. Many wore formal dress tiJr the star­studded party that t(Jllownl at Ch;Isen's restaurant. .\liss Taylor is starring with Maureen Stapkton. Robert Lansing and J.D. Cannon in the production imported from Broadway. which is schnlulnl to play in Los Angeles through Nov. 7. -AP 
Fair and cool today, with partly cloudy skies wda~· Highs in the upper 60's. Cloudy tomorrow. with showers develop­ing. -AP 

'--The_Qbs.eryer_ 
/Jesi!{n J:'dilor. ................. Dc.:in.ln: .\1urphy /Jesi}!.n Assistants.. ....... Suzanne La Croix 1)1peseller. .................................... Ray Inglin .Veu•s Eddor.. ..............\1ary Agnes Carey Copj• /;'ditor. .................. Dave Hickahaugh Feutures Layout.......... .~uzanne La Croix .\jJorts Copl' Editor .............. \1ikt: Ortman 1)'/Jist ....................................jc.:anin<: Hynt:~ S}'stems Control ............. Bruce' ( >akk·) .V/J /Jar /:'tlilor.. ............. Kan:n .\1c.\1ahon \.\1(.' /Ja)' !:'t/ilor . .................... Cvcv Balik' Ad Oesip,n ............................. Fran & Corh~ Phutogrt4pher ... ~ick Jk<.anllia (lues/ Appearances .............. .\1aimenaiH.T 
anti the< >utkt Pa.o,~ '()uarll. De<;ardent:r, ct al Phonc:-in Complaint..., and Con!-tolation~ 
"And the pullern net•erallers, until the rat dif!s." 

"/think the advertis­ing industry has lost sight of the fact that they are seeking to persuade the CUS· to mer, not offend him... 
See FEATURES page 6 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
:  Applications now available for  :  
:  committee chairmen  :  
t  for SENIOR FORMAL  t  
t  t  
f  f  
tf  all this week in ND and SMC Student  tt  
t Activities Office.  Due on Friday, Oct. 2  t  
t  Also apply now for a Committee worker:  t  
:  Job description on application.  :  

~~...._..~~~~~~~~~~~ ......... ~._.. 


o ploy by morsho normon 


GETTNGOUT 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 
......John \k(;r:uh S.lf( Fln·ufil'<' Dlilt1r .. \Ian Agm·, earn
l:'tfif<Jr·in-Cbief

Box Q, Nolie D.une. JN -ir> 55'' 
Tom .Jackman .\.IJC \'<'II'S Ftlitor <:ath~ Do1nanico The Obsen,er IS an independent newspaper published rl\ the -.,rudcnr-., td the 1.\'nm· Daln 
Pbotul:'tlifllr. .John \lacor 
lltlllllging l:'tlifor .. 

l:'xecutit•e .\<'II'S l:'tlifor 
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saim Man··-, (,,liege lr due" rwr nnt·-.,-.,,u,h l'im \'crcdlo!ti
.\<'II'S l:'tlitor .. reflect the policies of the admims(ration of el[her 1fl'-l1turion The new" 1'-rt'pt>rtul \'{'II'S J:'t/ifor .. .Kclli Hint Hu.•1i11ess \1tiiUI.f..!,<'r . Kich ( :oppola as acLurately and as objecrivelv as possrhle Edironal" rcpre-.,enr the up1n1•Hl ,,f a 'Senior Copy l:'tlitor .... \tan· Fran t .allahan (.onfwller .,lot· \lultlur \lid1al'l t lrtman ..\lark Lll"
majonty of the Editorial Board. Commentanes. oprr11on". and lt-rrn.., are rhc 11t·v.-, Sf)()r/s l:'ditur .... Adt·ertisill.l!. \fana,~er Features /Ailor .. .-\ntiH>Il\ \\ allon Prutlucliun \lalllll!,(,. .. \lid1al'l \tonk
r>f rhe1r authors. Column space is available to all member.., of the Lumrnutlill. ~tnd 
l'om \lad.cnnan
( irculalion .\ltOlt.i,~t'r
the free expression of varying opinions on Larnpu'-. through lt-rrn-,_ 1:--t'tlulut.Ignl 
.----------------~ ----------------­
The Observer Tuesday, September 29, 1981 -page 3 

.4 croU'detl lane of happy passengers are seen leat•ing tht• u•orltl's fastest passenger train, tbe 
• • • Anniversary 
continuedfrom /Jll/l,t' I 
Dkk Trac.:y," publi~hc.:d last year by <:twhea !louse. <iould is quoted: "I dec.:ided that if tlu· police couldn't catdl the gangMers. I'd create a fel­low who would." 
There follownl a memorable st•t of bad guys: "the Blank," a faceless man whose name was Frank Redrum 
Prof Yang will receive 
award in D.C. 
K wang· Tzu Yang, prot(:ssor of at'fospace and mechanical engineer­mg at Notre Daml', will ret·cive the !kat Transfer Memorial Award prest'ntnl by tht· American Society of ,\kchanical Engint•er~ during its Wintt'f Annual 1\keting in Washing­lOll, D.C., Novembt·r I'i -20. 
The Ileal Transtt:r Award as es­tabli~hed in ll)7 by ASME as one of ib national awards. It rccogniZl·d outstanding contributions to the lkld of hear transfer through teach· ing, rt·search, design. or publica­tions. Prot: Yang received the award for "his extt·nsive contributions to the permanent heat transfer literature...aml li>r his unstinting servin· to tht· heat tran~kr com· munity, tht· enginn·ring profession and several generations of t·ngineer· ing studt·nts." 
(murder spelled backwards); Jerome Trohs, a midget who is scalded to de;Hh in a shower; the Mole. a misu who lived under­ground; B.B. Eyes, a World War II 
bootkgger; Flattop. a killer for hire; Pruncface, Haf.and-Ha( Angdtop and Torcher. 
Their names often spelled their worst traits backwards and nearly al­ways matched their appearance. "I wanted my villains to stand out definitely so that there would be no mistake who the villain was," Gould said once. 
Gould retired in 1l)77 and the strip is now done by writt·r Max Col­lins -who was born 17 years after 
the  tlrst  strip  - and  artist  Rick  
fletcher,  who  had  worked  with  
Gould for 16 years.  

Gould also created emkaring l'haracter~: gravel Gertie, the crone with the silken gray hair; B.O. Plenty, whose name 1weds no explaining; the tough street urchin he took on as 
Junior Tracy; Diet Smith, the tycoon; Vitamin Smith, the John Barrymore like actor who always was popping pilb -the nice kind. 
Dick Tracy introduced scientitk marvels years ahead of their time, the most famous of thl·m the two­way wrist radio; later a two-way wrist TV. 
Tracy and Tess had no whirlwind courtship. They married on Christmas Day in ll)4l). Daughter Bonnie Braids was born two years later and son.Joseph Flint heart Traq· 2'1 years after that. 
The half century doesn't seem to have aged Tess either. In the current episode, one involving a guy wit)l narcolepsy named Dozer, a cur­vacnms Tess comment~ that the 
Mole turned out to be a nice old 
man. 
"Don't let this get out," says Dick with unaccustomed charm. "I al­ways did kind ofliked the Mole." 
And indeed he must have. In 
tl)4I. after Molt' held a gun on 
Tracy, the detective rushed him. 
held his head underwater, kicked him in the face and then brought him a Christmas present in jail. An­other touching moment in the half­century of Dick Tracy. 
Strudel tonight 


Music, movies start Oktoberfest 
By MARY O'KEEFE 
News Staff 
Saint Mary's kicks-off Oktoberfest this week complete with daisy sales, a strudel bake and the traditional Oktoberfcst beer garden. 
The Sound of Music will be shown tommorow and Thursday at 7 p.m. in Carroll Hall. Admission is li 1.00. Tonight the SMC German Club will sponsor a strudel bake in the LcMans kitt·hen at 6 p.m. for any students in­tert•sted in learning how to bake original German strudel. 
German night is tomorrow night in the SMC dining hall featuring Ger­man music and a menu that includes German chocolate cake. 
Dorms participating in the hall decorating contest must have their lobbies completed by 6 p.m. tomor­row when SMC German Club Presi­dent Joy Fiser, German Professor Nicholas Mcyerhofft·r and Director of Student Activities Mary Anne 


dukE 
University 

A representative of the Institute 6£ Policy Sciences will be on campus 
Wednesday, October 14, 1981, to discuss the Duke master's program in Public PoJicy Studies. Interested students may obtain further information by contacting the Placement Office 


Program gives chance to ND-SMC students 
By MARGARET HANK 
Neu•sStaff 
Neighborhood Roots, a program 
designed to orient Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's students to the South 
Bend area and acquaint them to the 
various community services, will 
take place Oct. H from .:j p.m. to H 
p.m. 
The program involves a tour 
through both urban and central-city 
neighborhoods. It will take the stu­
dents through a cross:section of 
areas. showing a variety of st·veral 
diffc~ent neighborhoods and ethnic 
groups. 
Following the tour there will be 
an authentic llungarian meal served 
at South Bend's <)ur Lady of Hungary 
Church. The evening will conclude 
with a session of discussions about 
the tour to provide students with a 
chance to become involved in the 
volunteer programs offered in either 
the ND-SMC or South Bend com­
munities. 
Several volunteer faculty mem­bers, such as Mary Ann Roemer, John Roos, Thomas Broden and T.R. Swartz, as well as a student task force, have aided in rn·stablishing tht: program, not offered last p:ar. However, because of the interest shown in the previous years. the program is being revitalized, and as Ms. Roemer commented. "living in South Bend I care about my com­
munity and I think that if the stu­dents get involved in Roots it will be easier for them to care too." 
Neighborhood Roots is sponsored 
by the Notre Dame Student Govern­ment, The Institute for Urban Studies, The Center for Experiential Learning and several academic departments. 
Tickets for the evening will go on sale Thursday in the north and south dining halls, as well as in the LaFortune Student Center. 
Farley roof victim to downpour 
Last Saturday the roof of Farley Hall was covered with approximate­ly five inches of water, caused by blocked drains on the hall's rooting. Once the drains were cleaned, the water receeded. 
Sister Jeanne Lcnz, Farley Hall 
rectress, said that the main concern 
was that the water was coming in 
around electrical equipment such as 
the elevator and ceiling lights. The 
actual damage in dollars has not yet 
been estimated but reportedly 
several ceiling tiles will need to be 
replaced. 
When checking on the level of water on the roof of Farley on Sun­day, Sister Jeanne also observed a build up of water on the roof of the North Dining Hall. S!1e reported it to authorities who promised to c.:orrcct the situation. 
,O'Donnell will judge the rooms. Tht· winning hall will receive enough German chocolate cake for all resi­dents. 
There will be a band tent featuring live German musk besides the tradi­tional beer garden at Saint Mary's on Thursday. Saint Mary's Student Ac­tivities Programming Board will sell taffy apples, knockwurst, hot prct· zels, soft drinks and strudel. "The band tent offers something new taking emphasis away from the beer garden," stated Susan Murphy, chair­man of the event. "It's-for students who wish to participate in the ac­tivities but who arc not 21 yet." 
Radio station WRBR, co­sponsored by SAPB and SMC Senior Class, will provide music in the beer garden. Both tents •.~~oill open at 8 
p.m. and will be located behind An­gela Athletic Facility. 
Orders for daisies and Oktobcr­fest mugs will be taken during dinnn through Thursday at all dining halls. Daisies arc fit. 50 for a bunch of ten and will be delivered for 25 cents extra. The 16 oz. mugs are designed with the Lowenbrau lion and will sell for 11.3. 50. Students may purchase mugs at Senior Bar tomorrow and at the beer garden on Thursday. 
o ploy by morsho normon 

GETTNG OUT 

~ 
' 
1'he Observer Tuesday, September 29, 1981 -page 4 
World's largest 

Dairy surplus causes problems 
KANSAS CITY, MO. (AP) pounds of nonfat dry milk, 'i44 mil­dairy ptoducts. And this year it has America's biggest dairy case deep lion pounds of cheese and 274 mil­been acquiring these products at a inside the cold, dark limestone tun· lion pounds of butter. And that's rate 'iO percent ahead ofa year ago. nels under Kansas City holds 200 after the sale of 220 million pounds The Commodity Credit Corp. says million pounds of government ofbutter to New Zealand. the taxpayer invesunent is about surplus butter, dry milk and cheese. About 23'i million pounds is in $1.41 for each pound of butter, 
Barrels of cheese and boxes of warehouses in Kansas City, and $1.43 for eachpound ofcheese, and butter, stacked like frozen pillars, more than 200 million pounds -in 89 cents for each pound of nonfat stretch over acres of gray stone in boxes, barrels and sacks -lines dry milk. floor. Some has languished for more the walls of mines whittled from a The dairy price support program than two years in the cold, amber limestone ledg,e undergiing the city. is designed to ensure farmers a haze of the refrigerator-freezer -Peterson ·said Kansas City has reasonable income by keeping the one of tht· largest in the world. become the nation's main storage price manufacurers pay for raw milk 
This is the Inland Storage and Dis­depot for dairy goods because of its at a level determined by Congress. tribution Center the U.S. central location and the mines, But for the second time this year Agriculture Department's largest which have almost unlimited and Congress is moving to do something dairv invt>ntorv anywhere. relatively inexpensive space for about the dairy price support 
H~rt~. dairy. products under the rent. program. governments-support program con­The government says 4'i percent At the insistence of President stantly roll in by truck and rail; 20 to 'iO percent ofits inventory is com­Reagan and Agriculture Secretary million pounds arc added to the na­mitted to the federal school lunch John Block, Congress in April tional inventory each week. program, the military, the interna­skipped a midyear price increase. 
'"It's quite a headache trying to tional Food for Peace program and despite furious objections from the dispose of it," said Collyn Peterson, export sales. The rest is surplus. dairy lobby. chid of the dairy division of the Except for certain "restricted According to the USDA, the USDA's commodity office in Kansas sales" and donations -to schools, changes will result in a production City. for example -the USDA's Com­drop of about I billion pounds of 
But that's just what the budget modity Credit Corp. is prohibited raw milk next year and I. 'i billion a concious Reagan administration from selling the surplus domestical­year later. Dairy groups say the im­~ants to do, and it has pressed ly in a way that would depress the pact will be much harsher. Congrt>ss trim dairy price supports market. Meanwhile, it will take time to to mt>et the goal. According to Peterson, the eliminate the inventory. 
From California to Georgia, the government spent SI. 3 billion last Peterson said cheese generally 
government stores 777 million year to purchase, transport and store can be stored two years before it starts to mold and change tlavor; dry milk can be kept five years, although it may have taken on a "funny taste" by then, and frozen butter is good for one to two years. 
'"We try not to keep it for more than one or two years," he said, "But there's just too much to get rid of." Dairy Surplus Cause Problems 

A line ofSan Francesco Police Officers force thousands ofanti-El Salvadorian demonstrators from a street in front ofa San Fran­cisco hotel where El Salvadorian President Duarte was staying Sunday. (APphoto) 
College to Career Days 
-A step in the right direction 
Sept. 27 -Oct. 2, 1981 
Speakers from 2-7 pm Stapleton Lounge, St. Mary's Check posters for times and speakers 
Sponsored by SMC Student Government &CCDC 

Erick Bensch tries to pull his mother, Bonnie, up. after she slipped in the mud caused by Tropical Storm Dennis. The 240 area families face contaminated well water, the threat ofdisease, im­passable roads, and dying farm animals from the standing stag­nant water. ( AP photo) 


Hell's Angels shot, stuffed in auto 
ASHEBORO, N.C. (AP) -Two men executed gangland style and Muffed in a car trunk were identified 
yesterday as Hells Angels, one oftwo motorcycle gangs that are blamed by authorities for a recent crime wave in the Carolinas. 
Authorities found the bodies late Saturday after a resident reported blood was dripping from the trunk of a car parked on a gravel road in rural Randolph County. 
Charlotte police identified the victims as Michael '"Thunder" Finaz­zo, 40, president of the Hells Angels in Charlotte, and Tyler Duris "Yank" Frndak, about 30, a gang member. Both men had been shot at close range and Finazzo also had a broken leg, authorities said. 
Authorities believe both were shot elsewhere Thursday with a 9mm pistol. 
Detective Lt. Don Andrews of the Randolph County Sheriff's Depart­ment. noting Finazzo's broken leg, speculated that "they did some talking before they died." 
The shootings followed by several weeks an investigative report by The Charlotte Observer that the Hells Angels and rival Outlaws motor­cycle gangs are r~onsible for crime and violence extending across North Carolina and South Carolina. 
The Observer quoteo from a report by the Federal Bureau of Al­cohol, Tobacco and Firearms that said Finazzo was a member of the Filthy Few, a group ofabout 'iO Hells 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Col­lege. Subscriptions may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by writing The ObMrver. P 0. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Aaaocleted Preu. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Second class postage paid at Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 

Angels who have killed in the presence ofother members. 
The Obsen,er also said Finazzo was a major source of weapons for the gang. 
Finazzo was shot in the head three times and Frndak was shot once. Finazzo was wrapped from his waist to his head in clear plastic. Frndak's head was wrapped in plastic. 
Capt. Lee Bumgarner said authori· ties believe the killers meant to dump the bodies '"but got spooked and left the car." 
Bumgarner said autopsy reports indicated that both men were kneel­ing when they were shot. 
The car is registered to Finazzo's girlfriend, police said.· The woman and at least one other person were being questioned about the deaths. 
Authorities have declined to spec­ulate on whether the slayings are linked to an apparent two-year feud between the Hells Angels and the Outlaws. Police estimate that the Helb Angels have about 50 mem­hers in the Carolinas while the Out­laws have about 20. 
Several people have been killed or wounded in the feud, which police say may be .a struggle to control the massage parlor and prostitution trade in the Charlotte area. 
The Charlotte Observer's series on 
motorcycle gangs said police in the 
two states suspect members of the 
two gangs in at least I 5 slayings 
since July 4. 1979, when three Out­
laws and two associates were found 
shot to death in their Charlotte club­
house. 



U.S. -Soviet talks continue at U.N. 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) Secretary ofState Alexander M. Haig Jr. and Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko met yesterday for the second time in a week to dis­cuss prospects for reducing tensions 
between the two superpowers. 

Wearing gray suits and sitting in a red couch, appeared in a relaxed mood as the talks got underway at the Soviet Mission to the United Na­tions. Both men joked that they ex­pected a lon·g session. 
The meeting began shortly after 2 
p.m. EDT, was expected to last at least four hours, U.S. officials said. 
U.S. official said they hoped Haig and Gromyko could make progress toward defining the scope ofnuclear arms talks scheduled to begin in Geneva on Nov. 30. 
They agreed at their first meeting on Wednesday to hold the talks, but did not specify what weapons would be covered. 
A U.S. official. who did not want to be identified, indicated the first meeting was primarily an oppor­tunity for each side to determine first-hand the positions of the other on the issues. 
He said the second meeting would determine whether any progress could be made in easing tensions. 
The United States wants the initial focus to be on medium-range nuclear missiles in Europe. The Soviet Union now has about 180 . missiles targeted on Europe, and the United States plans to begin deploy· 
ing  'i72  cruise  and  Pershing  II  
missiles beginning in 1983.  
The  Soviet  Union  is  known  to  

favor a broader scope for the talks to include U.S. nuclear-armed aircraft in Europe. 
The Haig-Gromyko talks arc the highest-level meetings to date be­tween the Reagan administration and the Soviet leadership. 
U.S. Soviet Talks Continue 

The Observer 
Tuesday, September 29, 1981 -page 5 
Mexico's future 

Jameson, Goulet cite progress 
By MARK ROLFES 
Neu•s Staff 
Latin American week hegan yes­tenlay with thl· presentation "Mexican Development Future" hy Notre Dame professors Kenneth Jameson and Dennis Goulet. who hoth spl·nt thl' summer in Mexico. They discussed the prohlems Mexico has experienced as a result of that country's recent growth and progress. 
Thl' dehate in Mexico, according to jameson and Goulet, is over where the country should go in its continuing development programs and progress. Mexico has had in­creased industrial production and large economic growth over the past decade, much of that is due to large oil deposits discovered in recent years. The .\1exican economic system, however, still has problems. 
There are many inequities in ,\1exican distribution of wealth. The men explained that the bottom 60 percent of the population recieves I 0 percent of the income while the top S percent recieves 30 percent of the income. Due to this inequity, 
Miners may protest to preserve programs 
KINGSPORT. Tenn. (AP} -A llnitnl Mine Workers of America spokesman said yesterday the 160,000-memher union may con­sider walking off the joh to preserve the fnkral mine safety program and other henefits. 
The union is lobbying against hudget cuts and proposals it fears would reduce eligibility for hlack lung benefits and strip the U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration of its tel·th. Arnell Church said. 
"Iflohhying doesn't work. then ul­timately we have to make a decision as a lahor organization: do we work under unsafe mmmg condi­tions?... Do we walk?" Church said. "This is thl· key week." 
Arnell Church, an official in the IIMW press office, is no relation to Sam Church, president of the liMW. 
The liMW is fighting proposals in Congn·ss to reduce the numher of inspections of surface and deep mines hy federal coal mine inspec­tors. 
"We fought too hard and too long as a lahor organization to now have the Rl·agan administration turn us hack SO years and return the mines to the dangerous conditions we OIH.'l' worked under." Church said. 
"Wl· passed the word to the Rl·agan peopk to kel·p hands off the hlal·k lung program," said Church, who was here preparing for a this morning's ncws confcrcnce. 
"This is not a giveaway program...This is an occupational disel.~l· program mandated hy Congrl·ss." 
Church said President Rl·agan didn't say in his hudget message last week that the administration was coming after the black lung program. 
I k said topit's of the ncws con­l(:rencc will he the union's response to threats to hlack lung and safety programs as wdl as tht: l1 M\X' orgamzmg effort at non-union Paramont Coal Co. in Virginia. 
Paramont. a major non-union coal company located ncar Norton, Va., has fought a rcct:nt union organizing drive. 
Tht: t:stimatt:d 4SO hallots cast last month in the union dt:ction wt:rc 
AL offers English to students 
The College of Arts and Letters, with the support of the Office of Ad­vanced Studies, is offering a course in "English as a Second Language" for foreign students at the Univer­sity. The class is meeting on Tues­days and Thursdays from 7-8:30 p.m. in I07 O'Shaugnessy. 
For further information, contact the Graduate Studies office, exten­sion 7544. 
impoundt:d hy the National Labor Relations Board after the lJM W filed unfair lahor practice charges against Paramont. 
Louis D'Amico, acting regional director ofthe NLRB, said the ballots will be counted Thursday and both sides will have five working days to file complaints. 
But D'Amico said it would he some time hcfore the election is settled and it is known whether the union will represent the Paramont workt·rs or not. 
Paramont officials said the union filed the charges to hold up the elec­tion results hecausc they knew tht: vote rejectt:d the union. 
according to jameson and Goulet, Mexican leaders are reluctant to make any sweeping reforms and are content to deal with immediate prohlems instead of searching for long range solutions. 
Another problem in Mexico is the gap in agriculture. Half of the agriculture is high technology, ex­port oriented agriculture. The other half is suhsistence farming, the weak spot in Mexican development, according to ProfessorJameson. The growth in agricultural production is not keeping up with the growth in population, thereby increasing the amount of food Mexico must im­port. The U.S. sold S2.S billion in food last year to Mexico. 
Dependence on the United States is another great problem which Professor Goulet stressed. The Mexican economy is very depend­ent on trade with the U.S., which is involved in two.thirds ofall Mexican foreign trade. The U.S. also owns 60 percent of all foreign investment in Mexico, which wishes to diversify its foreign trade and become less de­pendent on its northern neighhor. 
The final problem stressed by jameson and Goulet is the need for a sharper. definition of the Mexican national identity. Fifty-four different languages are spoken in Mexico and all government attempts to assim­ilate the languages have failed. Other Mexican problems arc unemploy­ment, the overurhanization of Mexico City and the growing dominance and control that oil money has in the Mexican economy. 

Weinberger defends sale to Saudi Arabia 
WASHINGTON (AP) The Unitt:d States could control Saudi Arabia's usc of A WACS radar planes for several years even without for­
mal  restrictions,  Secretary  of  
Defense  Caspar  Weinhergcr  said  
yesterday.  

Defending the administration:s proposal to sell five of the planes to the Mideast oil power, Weinhcrger said the Saudis would need help with training and maintenance for nearly a decade to keep the planes flying. 
Gen. David Jones, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said such rdianct: on U.S. tt:chnical help would continut: "well into the 
1990's." At another point, jones said, "Wt: will he involved as far as we can see in the future." 
Jones con<.Tded under question· ing from members of the Senatl' Armed Services Committee that once tht: planes arc delivt:rt:d, the Saudi Arahian govcrment "could tell the Americans to get lost." 
But he said "it would he fool­hardy for them" to do that. ht:cause they would need Amt:rican advice and training to keep the planes in tht: air. 
If the Saudis used the AWACS against Israt:l and tht: United Statt:s pulled out its support, jones said. 
"there would be rapid deteriora­
tion" of their ability to kt:t:p them 
flying. 
Tht: AWACS planes are primarily 
designed for early detection of 
enemy warplanes, hut critics of the 
sale say putting them in Saudi hands 
would tilt the halance of military in 
the Middle East in favor of Arab na­
tions, and place Israel at a disad­
vantage. 
The testimony offered hy Weinherger and jones was the first formal defense of the sale hefore Congrt:ss and came as it was becom­ing apparent efforts to find a com· promise dt:signed to overcome overv.·helming Senate resistance to the salt: was unraveling. 
The Washington Post reported from Saudi Arabia that the oil­producing nation's lt:adcrs would refuse a proposal that Amt:ricans he permitted to fly ahoard the plant:s even after tht: Saudi Air Force is capahlt: ofpiloting them. 
More than 60 memhcrs of tht: 
Senate have indicated opposition to 
the S8.S hill ion sale, which includes 
Sidewinder missiles and equipment 
dt:signed to providt: greater range to 
F-1 S fighter planes tht: Saudis haVl' 
already purchased. 
If<; I Senators vote against the sale 
it will he hlockt:d. 


NAVY BOYS 
If you desire financial assistance, scholarship, or guaranteed job opportunities upon graduation; then you should enter 
1-2 OCTOBER 
as an important date in your calendar That is the day we are providing info and interviews in all areas of: 
·AVIATION ·ENGINEERING 


·PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT 
at Notre Dame. Salaries start from $16,000 increasing to $27,500--$40,000 in 4 years. Openings also available in: 
·Materials management ·Business administration ·Nuclear engineering 
·Doctors ·Nurses ·Lawyers 

For more info or. appointment for interview call 317-269-6197 or 1-800-382-9404, ext. 6197 


---~------~~-~----­



r-"--------~ ~---~ ~ ----..----­



Sports Brie/.§ ­
Tuesday, septLber 29, I9BI -page 7 
~b=-~=-~1~n~r:(;J~h=-s=er:t:·e~r~<~ln:d=,=1~'~h:t':,4~.=rr:o:(,=u~/f:d~J7>r:·:r:r::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::!:~~~
1 

Notre Dame's Women's Track and Cross Country Purdue's Big Ten battk at Wisconsin will be one of 
Cluh will nH:l't tom morrow at .., p. Ill, in the basement of Lewis Hall. 
I 0 colkgl' foothall games to he tdevist:d bv ABC-TV on Saturllav as Thl· coach will he on hand to discuss practict:s. fund raisers and 
parts of regionaldouhkht:aders. the netwo~k announced \'esterdav. more. If you wish to attl·nll but are unabll' to do so. contact Lisa 
The Top Twenty college football teams 1n The As·

Six games. inc.:luding Purdue-Wisconsin. will air at I I a.m.· EST. with 
sociated Press poll. wtlh hrst-place votes tn paren·
\lonti ( H091 ) or Barb Jacobs ( 2""22 ). -The Obsert•er the kickoff 20 minutes latt:r. The othc:rs art: Navy at Yak. Clemson at 
theses. thts season s records and total potnts Potnts 
based on 20-19·18-17 etc Notre Dame opponents are italicized
1\.l'lllucky. Baylor at Houston. Arkansas Statt: at Kansas. and Southeast \lissouri State at Southwt:st Missouri Statt:. Pittsburgh at SouthThe Irish golf team ran into nen· possibte pl'natr Carolina. \lissouri vs. \1ississippi Statt: at Jackson. San Jose State at 
1 Southern Cal (57 5) 3·0 1.311 
2 Penn State (5.5) 2-0 1.208

thl·coursl· hall to offer Yl'Stt:rday afternoon as Nod O'Sullivan's tl'am Fresno Stall'. and Nl'valla-Las Vegas at Wyoming will go on the air at 
3 Texas (1) 3-0 1.104

~lid to a fourth placl' finish in thl· Indiana lntercolkgiatl' Champion­
4 Pittsburgh 2-0 1.027
2:-t'; p._m. EST. -AP. 
5 Oklahoma ( 1) 1-1 1.022 6. North Carolina (1) 3-0 967 

ship~. The tournament was playc:ll yesterday in Zionsvilk-. Ind. Ball 
Stall' took thl' tt:am title with a scorl' of ""';';. PurliUl' was Sl'Conll 
7 Oh10 State 3-0 922 8 Michigan 2-1 835 9. MISSISSIPPI State 3-0 743 

( '62) followl'd by Indiana State ( 7H6) and Notrl' Dame ( ""91 ). "Thl' 
whok tc:am Wl'nt bl'rsl'rk in thl' afternoon round," said O'Sullivan of 
10 Bngham Young 4-0 708 

his tl'am·~ inability to avoid hazards. For thl' Irish. junior <irl'g Pl'tl'rs 
11 Alabama 3-1 658 12, Washington 3-0 533 13 Georg1a 3-1 492 

t1nishl'll I I th ( '6-79 15';) and sl'nior Bob Horak was l""th ( ..,H-..,9 
I';7 ). Kirk Schooky of Ball Stall' and .John Haiml' battkll to a til-for Notre Dame's field hockey team uppl'O its 
14 Clemson 3-0 386

rl'cord to 6--t yesterday with a +0 win mTr visiting Taylor. Thl' Irish 
15 Southern Method1st 4-0 324

l'o-mellalist honors. Thl' two Wl'rl' tkll with Purduc:'s )a\· Smith at 
16 UCLA 2-1 266

Wl'rl' kll by Clairl· Henry's thrl'e-goal outburst. Kathy Ray started the14H at thl' l'nd of thl' two-round tournament on thl' p~r-:... 2 . .... I-t-t­
17 Mismi(Fis.) 2-1 225

scoring ti1r Notre Dame with a goal just two minutl'S into the gaml'. 
18 Iowa 2-1 169

yard Golf Club of Indiana coursl'. But Smith bogkll thl' first hok of 
19 Arkansas 3-0 156

:'llotrl· Danll· will bl' at Goshen tomorrow hdilrl' rl·turning home tosudlll·n death whik Schooky and liaiml' hoth parrl'll tlu· t1rst two 
20 Iowa State 3-0 134

face Goshl'n College Saturday morning at I I a.m. on Alumni Fidll. ­hoks. The: match thl'n was called ht:causl' of darkness. -Jbe Ob­
Thl! Obsl!rt•er 
See SPORTSBOARD, page 10
S<'rl'l!r and AP 

The Obaerver will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30p.m. However. clas­sifieds to be run in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All clas­sifieds must be prepaid. either in person or through


Classifieds 
the mail. 

Need nde to CLEVELAND lor break Will DESPARATELY NEED MSU TIX' CALL Need 11x for October 3 M1ch St game HELPI/I DESPERATELY NEED STU­SMC OKTOBERFEST MUGS AND share usual PLEASE call Cathy 232-JULIE 289-6731 Call Beth. 6945 DENT OR GA TIX TO MSU GAME DAISY SALE lhts week 1n all d1n1ng halls 
8301 Please call Paula at4688 SMC 
I_N_O_TIC_E_S~' 

I need MSU IIX' As close to 10 as I can get ANN WEBER SAYS THE PRETTY GIRL CONGRATULATIONS J D FALLON ON Need 3 GA TIXS to FLORIDA STATE PRICE NO OBJECT call DOUG 8838 DOESN T NEED TICKETS. BUT HER Help!' desperately need ltx. 1 student or ACCEPTANCE TO THE SCHOOLUSED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED 
ROOMMATES STILL DO. SO IF YOU GA lor MSU. 3 student or GAs lor FSU. 4 VISIT ME SOMETIME ON MOLOKAIgame BIG $$$ PLEASE call Paula 232­SAT SUN 9-7 CASPERSON 1303 
8301 I NEED 4 GA TICKETS TO THE NAVY CAN HELP THEM OUT WITH GAS FOR GAs and 2 students lor Navy call1596 maxBUCHANAN RD NILES ANY GAME CALL 6773 GAME CALL PETER 1222 Need two Student or GAs lor MSU CASHSENIOR WEEK CHAIRMAN andNEED RIDE TO HOUSTON TEX FOR 
I NEED 2 NAVY GAS PLEASE !lilt IF RENUMERATIONI Call Bnan 288·3108 COPY EDITOR NEEDED TO WORKSENIOR FELLOW CHAIRMAN applica· Need MSU and Ga Tech GAsOCTOBER BREAK CALL CHRIS AT 
YOU HAVE OR KNOW WHERE I CAN SUNDAY EVENING SHIFT. PAID POSI­
!tons are now avatlable for all mterested desperately Call Paul at I 222 1678 ANYTIME. WILL SHARE USUAL THEM CALL 6773 I NEED TWO G A TICKETS TO M S U TION. ENGLISH MAJORSsentors Ptck up applicatons m the student GAME CALL ROB AT 277-6065 PREFERRED. CALL MARY FRAN ATActlv111es off1ce 1n LaFortune DEADLINE HELPI! HELP!' HELP!' GRANDMA ANDI know 11 s tnghten1ng thought but are you 
NEED 2-4 NAVY GAs WILL PAY OR THE OBSERVER-1715.
OCT 15 THE GANG ARE COMING FROMgettlf1g ENGAGED 1n the near future? If TRADE FOR TICKETS CALL MONTY I M GOING INSANE' NEED 3 MSU TIXIRELAND TO SEE THE IRISH TURN you re not hlthy nch and don I know the 1068 AND 2 FSU TIX ASK FOR CARL AT Patt1 PMarketing & Sales Representative M S U GREEN WITH ENVY WHEN WEllrst lhtng about dtamond nngs settmgs fit never tell you what the
Wanted Enterlamment & Sports Com· WIN IF HAVE ANY G A TIX PLEASE 68271 dogs meant. 
etc g1ve me a call I m the campus rep for DESPERATELY NEED 1 mudem & 2 but I Will say you made one great OJ
South Bend area CALL CATHY (SMC) 4219 or PATTI (ND) a very reputable dtamond tmporter tn So pany expandtng tnto 
G A s for M S U Please make a ttcketlor a Saturday n1ght
Ground floor opportuntly for nght person 6763 THANKS Game WILL TRADE any home stud You got the d1ce. but lor­
Bend They re professtonals and carry an 

n1ce g~rl Happy Call Nancy at SMC -USC stud ticket CALL HAMIL 1068 got the champagne Don't worry. I'll keep Call Amencan Entertamment Assoc 236­enormous tnventory at nearly cost You 
4435 11 ch1lled lor you P S. I rolled a 3 You owe
8029 WANTED 2 G A IIX tor Navy game. Call owe 11 to yourself to check 1nto th1st Call 
Frank al1403 I NEED 2 OR 4 MSU GAS CALL me Mark at277-0617 F S U student 11cket lor sale Need any JASPER AT 1744Need nders to Cleveland (leaving Fn Oct 
2) -Go1ng to John Carroll Call John Need Penn State llx Call Stan. 3006 or NAVY GAs Will buy or trade call4641 Tncta likes peaches. Well, maybe JUSt the To all those plann1ng to nde the Desperately need FSU 11c. student or GA fuzz3527 3008PHILADELPHIA <;LUB BUS 
HAVE 2 FSU G A tickets W1ll TRADE tor Call Joan at 6553 please try to get your money 1n by Fnday 
WEAL THY lnend needs 4 good /1ns1de 2 MSU G A Call M1ke 288-9892 MB. choose your appendengages!/1 
NEED RIDE TO VERMONT FOR OC·Dave Zatt6740 Chuck Bergere 8702 
30 above row 20) USC TIX MONEY IS HELP' I need ttckets tor Mtch•gan StateTOBER BREAK W/SHARE COSTS 
NO OBJECJ-WILL TOP YOUR BEST WILL PAY ANYTING FOR SOUTHERN Call me' Leltle 41·4806 Okay, llorgtve you. Bnan But I'll never be CALL SUE 7526CONGRATS CHICAGO STING!'! Soccer BID' Call J1m 283-1863 CAL STUDENT TICKETS CALL DAN engaged to you agaml Bowl Champs! 1 sf Chtlown wtnner tn 18 
234·1441

NEED Lots oiT•x to all home games espvery long years and Observer has ZERO 
GRANDMA CRAWLING TO GAME. Duck. cute couples! Meva don' like that.
Fla St & Navy Call Ph1l 1150 NEED USC GAs AND STUDENTS
COVERAGE of same' Thanks 
I NEED 2-4 GAS FOR FSU $$$ CALL Bang! But she mtsses Brtan 
I PERSONALS I
DAVE 277-5883 

CALL ERIC 8580 I could really use 2 MSU ltckets. I mean. 
RIDE TO BOSTON FOR OCTOBER 
BREAK WILL SHARE USUAL CALL 
NEED 2-4 GAS FOR MSU OR FSU WILL My life s been threatened Dad says he II don't put yourself out or anything, but ItNEED 2 USC GA TIX FOR MOM ANDBOB AT 3241 PAY$$ CALL JIM 8671 ktll me 11 I don I get 3 Flonda Sttlckets -1!
DAD CALL SANOY 272-5198. you're stuck because We're out of the
ILOST/FOUND I 
you can help call W1ck at 1 05 7 

champtonshtp p1cture. or because MSU ts I have 4 GA 11xs to any home game. and THE TIME IS NEAR I need 2 GA hx lor of Vanderbilt caliber (If that), or 11 you /US! FSU Will pay$$$ Call Henry at 1480 L1sa T •n Angers Happy 19th Don·! dnnk pla1n don't care. call Mark at277-0617 
am Willing to trade for Penn St only Call
Lost 5 Beach Boys T1ckets Last seen 1n 4609 too much wtne on your b day or Fr Gorskt
I FOR SALE~
B-L1ne ol North D1n1ng Hall If you have NEED several GAs lor MSU call J1m w11t g•ve you your birthday spank1ng! Tom ATTENTION: BOSTON BUS the s1gnupthem please call -1188 Reward for & R1ch
1593 has been changed to MON. OCT 5, fromNEED 2 GA TIX FOR NAVY GAME ­return 7-8 p m. tn Lafortune Bus leaves the 16th 
Couch lor sale good condthon Call af1er WILL PAY!' CALL CASEY AT 227-5626 FLORIDA! FLORIDA I FLORIDA' Aileen. Carol. and Kat1e sorry about the and returns before USC. Cost IS S110
4 p m at272·445 7 NEED 2 STUDENT TIX FOR LjSC GAME 
Lost black wallet tn front of South Dmtng 
(Tickets) ad But Ann assumed that she was the round trtp. Questions? Mtke 8854 or Jim Hall Need 10 s 1ns1de desperately If J1m needs TWO G A sand TWO student pretty g~rl That was too presumptuous 1528
-MONEY NO OBJECT!!!! CALL CASEY Perstan ktlten tor sale to good home CF A lound please contact Marc at 8260 
AT 227-5626 tiCkets' That s tor the Flonda St 0 K ? I not to be pubhctzed II was certamlyregistered $125 234-9917 eves w11t pay mucho d1nero Call J•m 3641 meant tor all of you. MSU student ltx or NAVY GA needed 
LOST a two tone blue sweat 1acket The photographer
or at 1mmed1ately-Mtke 8854 Reward call vtnce 1238 Need 5 FSU GAs Call Jack B1llMSU TICKET-40 yd line 3053 Desperately need 2 or 4 GA Mtchtgan 
State 11x Call Cathy 8085 SEX has nolh1ng to do w11h the tact that 1 TWO FRESHMEN DIE FROM LACK OF FOUND 
1100 

need 2 (two) GA or student llckets tor LOVE! WHERE WERE Y'ALL THIS I l 2 wks ago. set of keys w1th Cyclist WANTED 3-5 MICH ST TIX iGA OR 
STUDENT) PLEASE call LUKE 3489 Need 2 MSU IIX (student or GA) lor M•ch1gan State PLEASE call Enn at WEEK-END TERRY AND WADE? on them 2 ) Blue blanket from CILA 
brothers Call Ted 8424 7515 Ortentatton weekend Clatm 1n Volunteer 
L...-..1_T_IC_KE_Ts___,l 
To the redhead 1n Corby's who put on the Servtces OHtce. LaFortune G A s but w11ttake stud s CALLED 1686 Help' Need 2 or more ttx to any home Happy Birthday K1nky. show, was there somethtng that we were game Call Maureen at284-4156 Are you go•ng to have some pop tn the car supposed to see? 
I NEED MSU TIX!! Up to 7 needed. prefer 
Penn St ltcket wanted please call Donna at6771 Need 2 GA or Student T1cs lor NAVY on the way to Ch1cago?
LOST or borrowed from the South D1n1ng 
Hall-A blue windbreaker w1th LENOX 
WANTED 2 GAs or 1 GA & I stud IIX to Jezebel J Hey Boo-Boo -You·re tile greatest///Steve 1034tn orange on the back It means a lot to me 
FSU call VINCE 1238 Love. Yog1 so tl you know anyth1ng about 11. please 
Need 4 MICH ST IIX Please Call 1827 
ATTENTION SWIMMERS VolunteersNeed 2 GAs lor Flonda State Call Stan.
call Justin at 311 0 Thanks Desperately need two G A hckets lor needed to ass1st handicapped youths dear Sohn, 
2 GA FLORIDA STATE TIX NEEDED 3006 
M S U game Tickets lor Alumni of class w1th 6 wk Red Cross AquatiC prog at No senttmental garbage or embarrastngLOST 1 Kodak camera 1n a black case 
BADLY MONEY NO OBJECT Bob 234· 0418 Desperately need MSU 11ckets w11t pay 
ol 56 If you can help out please call Dtck Logan pool Ability desirable but NOT SISterly-love comments Happy 19th wtth bug wntten on tl Was sttlng tn front at 3279 or at 3283. mandatory Contact Volunteer Servtces. b~rthday. bro. You tend to be a pa1n
$$$$call John 1818
of library on curb If you found 11 call Jane 7308 Love. Soan NEED USC TIX. ONE STUDENT ANDat 7628 Reward I NEED 2 NAVY G A S -$$$ GALL
TWO GAs CALL CHRIS AT 1678 NEED 8 NAVY GA TIX PLEASE CALL PAUL8452 From the GUY IN THE FULL-LENGTH L1sa and Maureen. ARMY COAT to the GIRL IN THE RED­you m1ss but MICHAEL AT 1615 
W11t pay top $ for NO-USC game tickets Sorry had to Purdue. 
NEED MANY FSU TIX (GA) WILL PAY DISH SWEATER !hall met Thurs around thanks.
Need 6 tickets. best location ava1lable Need MSU GA TIX $$ Call D1ck 277­BIG BUCKS AND FIRST BORN SON m1dmght between Flanner & PW. fd likePlease call collect (714) 835-6505 ask for 0692
l,_FO_R_R_E_NT____.JI 

CALL TOM 1175 to see you aga1n!l! Call Ed at 8902 aher BEACH BOYS TIX FOR SALE/ MAIN
Tony Herenda or Jud1 Carlos Need 1 FSU GA John 6775 
11 FLOOR-4th row a1ste & 6th row center HELP'! Need 4-5 FSU GAs lor VISiting Call x7815 & ask tor Ga1I-Mane
DESPERATELY NEED 2 STUDENT OR GA TIX FOR MSU WILL PAY MEGA Qua Pasa! I need on"e GA or studenttx lor 
RENT TO OWN A COLOR TV OR 
family' Save a life' CALL KEVIN 1658 EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO STEREO CALL SUN APPLIANCE 291· 
TYPING. CALL 287-5162 ATTN DETROITERS DetrOit Club
BUCKS CALL KATHY 2126 FSU Call Steve 6645 5112 
HELP' DAD WANTS TO SEE ND BEAT meet•ng Wed Sept 30 7PM room 20 HIS ALMA MATER' NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ENJOY NEEDLE CRAFT? Turn your hob­LaFortune (off south end ot ballroom) BE 
I DESPERATELY NEED ONE STUDENT
Need 4 MSU and 4 USC GA t1x John
UGLY DUCKLING RENT·A·CAR From 
MSU GAME DESPERATELY!!!! JULIE by 1nto $$$$!Call Ros1e at 232-2116 4-6 THERE $8 95 a day and 8 cents a m11e Phone 
1001 TIX FOR MSU CALL 234·8518 at n~ght 
3829 p m da•ly259-8459 tor reservations 
CONGRATULATIONS ANN AND JIM!

SURFS UP -Ill can get! GA or Student Need 2 GAS lor GA TECH and/or HELP' FAMILY WANTS TO SEE NAVY IMAGINE THAT YOU RE DRIVING ON A We w1sh you all the best t1cket lor USC game For lun-•n-the-sun NAVY Call FRANK 8820 RECENTLY AVAILABLE ONE AND 
GAME' NEED G A TIX DESPERATE­STORMY NIGHT WHEN SUDDENLY From your roomtes· tn 417 THREE BEDROOM APTS ONE 
guy !rom FLA Have a heart!! Call Pam 
L Y!'l JULIE 3829 YOU FEEL SOMETING NIBBLING AT
Need 4 TIX to PENN STATE CALL4·1 5236BEDROOM HOUSE 234-2626 YOUR EAR STAY ON THE ROAD I'! JB-rm sorry I won't ever hurl or bother 
Need 2 M S U T1x W11t Pay $$ Call you agatn ~uedonym:?tudent hous.ng clean sate. laundry FRANK 8820 
DESPERATELY NEED USC TIX AM NEED 6 MSU GA TIX FOR FAMILY$$$ 
Joanne 284-5335 ATLANTA' ATLANTA' ATLANTA! kitchen rated supenor $100 •ncludes all 
WILLING TO TRADE ROLLING STONE 
(October break) I need a nde lor TWO 1f Ktley & Freud are very sexual but not to­CALL 272-8156 TIX TO DETROIT SHOW NOV 30 291 1405 
NEED TWO GA TIX FOR MICH ST you are g01ng to or through. Will share gether. Happy B-Day 
PREFER GAs. BUT MIGHT SETTLE FOR STUDENT TIX CALL CHRIS AT Need MSU t1ckets Wtll pay $30/tlcket 
WILL PAY YOUR PRICE Call Chns at dnv1ng and expenses Call Jab 8649 AT· Stacey & S1gmund 
8776 LANTA' ATLANTA! ATLANTA! Happy B-Day K1nky K1leyl I need tour of those USC t1x Call Tom at 
1678 Call J1m 3234 
NEEDED DESPARATEL Y-ONE G A ATTENTION ND/SMC VIETNAMESE Maureen
TWO GA FSU TICKETS MONEY NO

! WANTED~ 

TICKET TO THE F.S.U GAME-WOULD STUDENTS. Tutors needed lor Vtel­P S. Cleveland Rocks! WMMS 
4626 BE WILLING TO TRADE MY U S C namese youths w1th complicated Amer 
TICKET! CALL LISA 4354 culture ad,ustments. also 1n Chemtstry Ktller Kiley, OBJECT CALL BOB 234-0418 
Need as many GA IIX as poSSible to ANY NEED USC TIX One student and G.A
DESPERATELY need FLonda ST TIX­and English Contact Volunteer Serv1ces. Happy B-Day but NO CIGAR! 

home game For Ch1cago area Chnstan Call Steve 3661S T or GA -Call Steve 8655 TWO U S C TICKETS FOR SALE'!! 7308 Love.
Brothers · Wtll throw tn bottle ol thetr best Brandy John I 658 Need 2 GA MSU t1x Money IS no ob1ect 
CAROLE 3848 The Savage I desperately need 4 GA TIXS for GEOR­
INTERESTED IN BABYSITTING? Volun­GIA game W11t pay b1g $$ Call Anne 41· 
Ca11Susan41-4361 
NEED TO TRADE 2 MSU GAs FOR 2 teers needed to make up list of available Hey P1tgnm! 5473 DISillUSIOned? Want to get nd ot your lick· FLORIDA ST GAs 4696 or 255-9971 babys1tters for small chtldren on Tues. Happy B-Day -lor Thanksg1vtng, I'll bnng ets wh1le they re still worth d1ddly squat? NEED"' Two G A TIX ForM S U Game even1ngs at Bulla Shed, 6-8. wh1le parents the turkey and you bnng the shoe Need a nde to TN lor break Call M1ke Need 2 F S U GAs and w11t pay top dol­MONEY NO OBJECT'!' Call Gordon 277-Need MSU student tickets. please call attend counseling sess1ons Contact buckles! 6657 PLEASE' lar Call Greg at8377 any t1me 0331 T1m at8923 Volunteer Serv1ces, 7308. The Indian 
----------------------------------------~-----------------~----------------------~ 
The Observer -Sports Tuesday, September 29, 1981 -page 8 

Haden! 

Los Angeles Ram quarterback Pat Haden completed 13 of 29 passes for 210 yards, leading the Rams to a resounding 24-7 victory over the Chicago Bears last night at Soldier Field in Chicago. The Rams are now 2-2, while the Bears dropped to 1-]. ( AP Photo) 
•tmakeupyourmind at 
Evans injured 


Rams clobber Bears, 24 -7 
CHICAGO (AP) -LeRoy Irvin returned a punt 55 yards for a touch­down, and Wendell Tyler scored twice on short runs last night to lead the Los Angeles Rams to a 24-7 Na­tional Football League victory over the Chicago Bears in a nationally televised game. 
It was the second straight victory for the Rams, who hiked their record to 2-2, while the Bears, who lost quarterback Vince Evans and wide receiver Rickey Watts in the first half because ofinjuries, slumped to 1-3. 
Irvin's punt retur!J was the first for a touchdown by the Rams in 20 years. Dick Bass last returned one 90 yards against Green Bay in 1961. 
The Rams took charge the first 
time they gained possession and 
marched 71 yards in five plays for a 
touchdown. Pat Haden, who com­
pleted 13-of-29 passes for 21 0 yards, 
started with a five-yard pass to Tyler, 
hit Willie Miller for 19 and Billy 
Waddy for 44 before Tyler scored 
from the two-yard line. 

Another Rams march of 89 yards 
fizzled on the Chicago six, and Frank 
Corral booted a 24-yard field goal 
early in the second quarter which 
stood for a 10·0 halftime lead. · 
Early in the third quarter, the Bears were forced to punt and Irvin fielded the ball at his own 45-yard line, went to his right, cut back up the middle and raced into the end zone with 9:46 left in the period. 
Midway in the final period, the 
Rams scored again. The touchdown 
was set up when Ruben Henderson 
was called for pass interference 
against Jeff Moore, giving the Rams 
the ball at the Bears one. Tyler then 
went around right end for the score. 
The Bears averted a shutout when 
they marched 80 yards for a score in 
the fourth quarter, capping the drive 
on a 14-yard pass from third-string 
quarterback Mike Phipps to Dave 
Williams. 

The Bears' problems were com­
pounded as Walter Payton managed 
only 45 yards on 17 carries. Payton 
also fumbled the ball away twice. 

Evans had completed only one 
pass in eight attempts for three yards 
before being knocked out of the 
game with a bruised shoulder. He 
was replaced by Bob Avellini in the 
second quarter. 

Under Avellini's guidance and on 
the running of Payton and Matt Suhey, the Bears marched from their own 35 to the Los Angeles 27. Avel­lini then hit Watts with a 27-yard touchdown pass, but the play was called back because of a motion penalty against tight end Robin Earl. 
Avellini was making his first ap­pearance in a regular season game since Nov. 22, 1979. He was inter· cepted once and replaced by Phipps in the fourth quarter. 
The Rams defense limited the Bears to a total of84 yards in the first half, 60 on the ground. Ram defen· ders sacked Bears quarterbacks six 
times for 40 lost yards in the game. 
Tyler spearheaded the Rams' ground attack and gained 68 yards in 17 carries. 
Early in the fourth quarter, Haden completed a 19-yard pass to Henry Childs, who then fumbled. Len Wal­terscheid recovered at midfield. Payton ran for a first down to the Rams 39, but two plays later Payton fumbled and Johnnie Johnson, who stripped him of the ball, recovered on the Rams 38. The Rams failed to get a first down, but Corral unloaded a 67-yard punt that sent the Bears back to their own 10. • 
Evansville to host 1983 basketball regional 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. (AP) -The 1983 NCAA mideast Regional bas­ketball tournament will be played at Evansville's Roberts Stadium, but it may cost the city a high school tournament which it has hosted for 25 years. 
Mayor Michael Vandeveer made the final decision to host the Nation­al Collegiate Athletic Association event after meeting with university and high school officials. 
The NCAA demanded exclusive use of the 11,000-seat stadium for the entire period of March 17-20 before allowing Evansville to have the tournament. But the facility was also scheduled for the state high school semistate tournament on March 19. 
The NCAA threatened to move its 
tournament elsewhere. 

Various factions in the com­munity argued the point for several weeks. Some cited the city's long relationship with the high school tournament while others noted the 
S5 million the college tournament is expected to generate for the local economy. 
Vaneer who had the final decision 
on the matter because Roberts 
Stadium is municipally owned, held 
several meetings with Ward Brown, 
commissioner of the Indiana High 
School Athletic Association. 

Those meetings were also atended by Dr. Wallace B. Graves, president of the University of Evansville, the host school. 
"Our main question was: Would the IHSAA feel any animosity toward us if we brought in the NCAA tour­ney?" Vandeveer said. "We wanted co make sure (Brown) understood Evansville has had a strong feeling for the state tournament for years and we didn't want to injure the relationship between the city and the IHSAA." 
Dav Cawood, a spokesman for the NCAA, said as long as the stadium is reserved for the regional tourna­ment's exclusive use, Evansville has the tournament. 
But high school athletic officials could give no such assurnces to city officials that the semistate would return in 1984. Vandeveer said he was confident that the city's long relationship with the tournent would be a deciding factor. 
High school athletic officials must now search for a new site for the 1983 semistate. There are only two facilities south oflndianapolis which seat more than I0,000. 
Indiana University officials, who boast Assembly Hall in Bloomington, have reportedly been seeking to host the high school tournament for some time. Indiana State University also has Hulman Center in Terre Haute to offer. 
~sacOtT~YGUdecide~:
I ~ Having trouble making up your mind is understandable . .I 1}:.;:::./f/. ~ While other places give you a few choices, we have over a 1 1 -"''')}, dozen.From Mexican favorites like burritos and enchiladas toI --?11}/fj) the more American taco burger and taco salad. But whatever
I

I ~ lf~ .. ' r~:o~~~~~on, TASCO¢jiotHN~n$at participating: 
I_ ~ More thanjust tacos. 
I~~ Nonh Ironwood Uncolnway West U.S. 31 ~ Sourh B~nd Mishawaka Niles 
Limit one coupon per customer per vt"t. 

I-------------------· 
Chicago Bear quarterback Vince Evans (8) was first half after suffering a bruised shoulder. (AP removed from the lineup last night during the Photo)
~ 

The Observer-Sports Tuesday, September 29, 1981 -page 9 

... and after a scramblefor the loose ball ... ... the composedfreshman finds it and recovers. (photos
Chris Smith (32) fumbles Tim Koegel's ham/off at 
Purdue. 
• • • Freshmen 
cmlfinuedfrom page 12 
hiddc:n. 
''I'm a type: of runna who likes to hit tht· hoks as fast a~ possible: ami to takt· on any tat:kkr." Smith c:xplain~. "My !>izt· rc:ally hc:lps whc:n it t:omc:s to gc:tting those: tou~h yards inside:." 
lntc:n:stingly enough, Smith is also a Cincinnati product who~c: high ~chool acc.:omplishmt·nt~ earned him just a c.:oupk of post season honors. Actually. he was a consensu~ prep all-American with mc:ntions from Parade. Adltlas/Scholastic Coach, Coach and Atblete, to men­tion a kw. while winning thn:e let· tc:r~ at LaSalk as a runnin~ back and a lint·backa. With thost· {ind of ac­colades, he had the op nrtunity to choose hc:tween a number of ~chools. Ironically, one of the: schoob that compc:ted with Notre Dame: for hi!. time: was Purdue:. 
"Purdut· was one of the: schools that I really looked at," Smith says, "so the coachc:s told me that if I workc:d hard and earnc:d thc.-chann· that I would gc:t a shot at playing against thc:m. I just wish things could haVl· turned out hc.-ttt·r." 
Brooks' background isn't much different, a~ he: gathered in almost t·very conccivable post-sc:a~on honor imaginable. The publit:ity that accompanies him at Notre Dame has bc.-c:n hard to avoid, hut Blac.:hc: dears any qut·stion as to how the frt·shman 
is handling it. 
"It's surprising to sec how casygo­

ii1g and patient he has been." says 
Blachc:. "Ht· has taken everything 
vc:ry well, and hc.-has pulled for all 
the other guys throughout thc.-fall. 
Alll can say is that they an· both fine: 
young mt·n who havc.-a bright futurc.­
hc:re." 
Although these two· young men may bt· a lillie disillusioned after two consc:cutivc.-defeats, they can probably look forward to bc:tter days for the: Irish. After all, thc:y thc:m­sc:lves can directly influence more favorablt· outcomes for a long time to come. 
Roemer, Corrigan give ruggers second chance 
By MICHAEL ORTMAN 
Sports Edttor 
Dc:an of Students Jamc:s Roemc:r 
and Athletic Director Gene Corrigan 
have: notifit·d officials of the: unoffi­
cial Notre Dame Rugby Club that its 
rc:quc:st that the: organization he: 
rdnstated will he: considered on a 
conditional basis. 
In a kttc:r addrc:ssc:d to club prc:si­
dent Nick Colarc:lli, Rocmc:r and 
Corrigan agrc:ed to ~.:onsider tht· rc:­
qut·st only if a minimum of I'; 
playt·rs would work at least four 
hours pt·r wc:t·k in the: Northc:ast 
Nc:ighhorhood ti>r 20 wc:c:ks, a total 
of 1200 man/hour~. 
The: cluh was placed on inddinite probation last spring after .30 rugby playc:rs omtirmc:d reports the: Uni­vc:rsity had reccin·d during spring hrc:ak about their participation in a nude: "c:lc:phant walk" at Griffs, a puhlit' bar in llouston, Tc:x. 
The 30 participants wc:rc: barrc:d from t•vt·r again playing rugby for a Notre: Damt· group. But in tht' ktter to Colarc:lli, Rot'mc:r and Corrigan al­low for thc:m to he: reinstated as we:II. "Ifa plaver rt·ct:ivc:d a ktter from the Dean ot Studc:nts dirc:ning him not to play Notre: Dame rugby again, that letter will not be: rescinded for him unlc:ss he: pc:rsonally has providc:d the 80 hours ofservice:." 
The: lettc:r added, "Evidc:nce by third partic:s such as approved time: cards will be necc:ssary to document the hours. We will need favorable tc:stimony from the: bc:neficiaric:s of Jour services." 
" . . . we will consider the quali~v of the effort provided and ajudgement decision . . . will be ren­dered." 
The dub has until February I 5 to again pc:tition for rc:instatemc:nt. 
The: administrators go on to say, "If your image: has undergone: con­siderable improvc:mc:nt, and if the: 80 hour!> of work is done, we will consider the quality of the effort provided and a judgc:ment decision, negative or positive, will be ren­dered." 

I I I 
byjohn Macor)

••••••••••COUPONa•••••••••••••••• 

ATTENTION NOTRE DAME i 
l.1 ST. MARY'S STUDENTS! 1 
I 

The Easy Rider is giving you $5 00 off any round trip ticket purchased for I 
semester break. Thanksgiving. or Christmas break. (Limit one coupon per ticket -offer I 
• •I 
2 
Obtain tickets from your favorite travel agent or any United Limo office. Coupon must s~ be presented when buying ticket. Reservations must be made 48 hrs. before departure. c 
=:.. 
s
• TRAVEL TO AND FROM $33 00 ROUND ~ 
I 
cmCAGO'S O'HARE ••• ONIX • TRIP 1 
I I I I I 
I UnitedLimo ! I 
Michiana Regional Airport Office Bittersweet Road Office I
I 
I 234-6000 255-3068 I
•••••••••••••••NON·REFUNDABLE•••••••••••••• 
T I E River City Records Announcesthe Concertoftheyear... 
ROLLI G STO ES 

Special Guest:SAN'TANA· Tues~ay -.December 1, 1981 7:30p.m.
:It 

Pont1ac S1lverdome * Pontiac, Michigan 
Special Charter Bus Pack~f 
includes: 

•round 
trip bus transportation from River City Records to Pontiac Silverdome. Bus departs at l:OOp.m., returns approz. 3:30 a.m. 

• 
Refreshments on bus 


• 
Ticket to The Rolling Stones/Santa.na concert 

• 
safety/convenience/avoid driving 1 parking ezpense and hassle! 


.. 

$1.00 OFF! All Rolling Stones and Santana albums and ta.pes now &t both River City Records 
Limited number of pa.cbge tickets now on sale at River City Records 50970 U.S. 31 lorth 
For more information call 277-4242 
The Observer -Sports Tuesday, September 29, 1981 -page 10 

• • • Sportsboard 
x-New York 24 23 51, 3.5 
continuf!dfrom page H Cleveland 24 24 500 4 Toronto 20 23 465 5.5 Weal Kansas Ctty 26 21 553 
1.5
x-Oakland 23 21 523 Minnesota 23 25 479 3.5 Seattle 21 26 447 5 
Second Hall 

BASEBALL 

Texas 20 25 444 5 
NATIONAL LEAGUE Ch1cago 20 28 417 6.5 East 
Cahforn1a 18 27 400 7 w L Pet. GB 
x-flrst half champ1on

'" 
Montreal 26 21 553 Yesterday's Results St LOUIS 25 21 .543 5 Kansas C1ty 6, Minnesota 1 x-Phtladelphta 22 24 478 3.5 Cleveland 6. New York 2 Chtcago 22 24 478 3.5 Balt•more 7 Detro1t 3 
New York 21 26 447 5 M1lwaukee 1. Boston 0 Ptttsburgh 19 29 396 75 Call forma 6. Chtcago 0 Weal Texas 6, Seattle 5 
31 16 660 Today's Games C1ncmnat1 28 18 609 2.5 Kansas Ctty (Wnght 1-2) at Mtnnesota (Wtlhams 6-8) San FranciSCO 27 19 587 35 Toronto (Clancy 6-t 1) at Oakland (Noms t 1-9) x-Los Angeles 24 23 511 7 Cahfornta (Ktson 0-1, Moreno 1 -2) at Chtcago (Trout Atlanta 22 24 478 8.5 8-7. Dotson 9-7). 
Houston New York (Gutdry t t-4) at Cleveldnd (Denny 9-5). nSan Otego 13 35 .271 185 

Balttmore (McGregor 12-4) at DetrOit (Morns 1 3-6), n Boston (Torrez 8-3) at Mtlwaukee (Slaton 5-6), n Yesterday's Results Texas (Medich 9-6) at Seattle (Beattie 3-2), n 
x-f1rst half champton 

Tomorrow's Games Phtladelphta 12. New York 4 Kansas C1ty at M1nnesota Atlanta 2. Los Angeles 1 Toronto at Oakland San Franc1sco 4. Cmctnnatl 0 
Ptttsburgh 4-1. Chtcago 0-3 New York at Cleveland. n 

easton at Mtlwaukee, n Houston 2, San D1ego 1 California at Chicago. n 
St. LOUIS 6. Montreal2 

Flannf!r 1/'s goalie anticipates action and prepares to make a 
Today's Games Balt1more at Detrott. n save in yesterday's game in which Stanford defeated Flanner /J, 2-0. Los Angeles (Welch 8-5) at Atlanta (McWilliams t -1 ). Texas at Seattle, n 
(photo hy Nick DeCandia)
tn New York (Falcone 3-3) at Phtladelphta (Davts 1-3), n Chtcago (Kravec 1 -3) at Pittsburgh (0. Jones 4-4). n 

.... 
San Francisco (Holland 7-5) at Ctnctnnati (Letbrant 
1-1). n Montreal (Lee 4-4) at St. LOUIS (Sorensen 7-7), n Sunday's Results San Otego (Wtse 3-8) at Houston (Ntekro 9-8), n Cleveland 28. Atlanta t 7 

Irish, Huskers disappear 
Ctnctnnatt 27, Buffalo 24. OT
Tomorrow's Games 
N. Y Jets 33. Houston 17 St. Louts at Phtladelphta. n Ptttsburgh 27. New England 21. OTMontreal at Pittsburgh, n 

Detroit 16. Oakland 0 By HERSCHEL NISSENSON ranking in The Associated Press col­fifth. The Sooners still received one
San Franctsco at Atlanta. n Houston at C1nc1nnall. n AP!lports Writer lege football poll for more than one first-place vote, plus I,022 points.
Phtladelphta 36. Washtngton 13 
M1am1 31. Balttmore 28 Chtcago at New York. n 

week. The other :'llo. I vote went to
Mtnnesota 30. Green Bay 13 AMERICAN LEAGUE Kansas Ctty 20. Seattle t 4 Thank~ to their last-gasp 28-24 tri­How..:ver. Notre Dame and North Carolina, which over­East 
San Otego at Los Angeles. n San Franctsco 21, New Orleans 14 

umph over runner-up Oklahoma, Nebraska, two of the nation's tradi­powered Boston College, S6-l ci, and
Dallas t 8. N Y Gtants t 0 

w L Pet. GB 
20 Tampa Bay 20. St. LoUis tO the Trojans of Southern Calil(>rnia tional powers, fell ou.t of tht' jumped from ninth place to sixth. Denver 42, San Otego 24 Milwaukee 28 583 
Detroit 27 20 .574 5 have become the first team this rankings after suffering their second Ohio State. up from eighth to Boston 26 21 553 1.5 
Last Night's Game 
setbacks in three games. Notre

Los Angeles 24, Chtcago 7 season to hold onto the No. I seventh, ddeared Stanford 24-19 Dame was beaten IS-14 in the last­Balttmore 25 21 .543 2 
and received 9.22 points. Michigan, minute by Purdue while Nebraska 
down from seventh to eighth,
Soccer continues 
lost to Penn State .10-24. 

shaded Navy, 21-16, and totaled 8.)S It was only the second rime since points. :\tississippi Stare's 28-7 the 1969 season that Nebraska did 
trouncing of florida vaulted the Bul­not appear in the weekly rankings. 
ldogs from 12th to ninth with 743 The Cornhuskers' only miss during points, while Brigham Young the 1970s came in 1977 after an 



Interhall football underway 
climbed from I I th to I Oth with "'08 TRACK -Despite the inclement weather, there was opening-game loss to Washington points following a 41-20 victory
~~~~J~Jiilii~~;~~if}~if~j~;:~j~j:~;~j;i:i;~:;;i;;~;~ii~ ;:;:;~;:~~!::::;J.:;:;:::·=~~==<=~:w::'£~:=~ ·.~ :~~i~ !i;~!fir~~~ii~i~it~j~~~J~}~l~Ji[iitl~l~
a good turnout for this weekend's interhall track me..:t. State. over Colorado. 
Alumni Hall took the team title with Keenan finishing Southern Cal, which scored with Last week's sixth through lOth second and Dillon third. John Burke was a double win­two seconds remaining to nip Ok­teams were UCLA, Mil .11gan. Ohio ner for the Alumni team, winning the long jump and the Sports Writer lahoma, received S7 1/2 of66 first­State, North Carolina and Alabama. 
Jim Kinney 
------~----------------­
SS-merer low hurdles. Here's a look at the winners: pl<u:e votes and !,.) II of a possible However, UCLA. skidded to 16th
Inside Interhall

Longjump-John Burke (Alumni) ll)' 2 1/2" I ,.)20 points yesterday from a place after a 20-.., Joss to Iowa, while Highjump -Stan Taylor (Cavanaugh) 6' 4" nationwide panel of sports writers 
Alabama slipped from I Oth to II th 55-meter Hurdles -John Burke (Alumni) :07.7 Howard 2-1 and sportscasters. despite a 28-7 triumph over Vander­55-meter Dash -(tie) Steve Strakowski (Fisher) Penn State, third a week ago,
Off-Campu!t 1-2 bilt. and Joe McCarthy (Alumni) :07.1 climbed into second place after Arizona State fell out of the
Grace 1-2 Mile Run -Ed Rudniki ( Flanncr) 4:49 downing Nebraska. The Nittany rankings by losing to Washington
Pangborn 1-2 800-meter Run -John Kocchley (Keenan) 2:0.2 Lions received S I /2 flrst-placc State, 24-21. Iowa, which upset
Kennan 1-2 300-meter Run -George Eversman ( Kc:-enan) votes and I,208 points. liCLA Saturday after shocking
lioly Cross 1-2 :.)')..) Texas, a 14-7 winner over Miami Nebraska I0-7 rwo weeks ago, made
DMSIONII 800-meter Rt -Alumni I :41 (Fla.), rose from fourth to third with the ratings for the tlrst time this
Morrissey 2-0 ' FOOTBALL -·, men's football season got off to a one llrsr-place ballot and I, I 04 season, as did Arkansas and Iowa
Carroi2-0 great start Sunday with excdlant weather and a full af­points, while Pitt, idle last week, State, both unbeaten. Arkansa~
Stanford 2-0 ternoon of hard-hitting action. Not all teams have went from fifth to fourth with I,027 trimmed Mississippi, .27-13, while
Cavanaugh 2-I ~ played yt·t, but here are the results from Sunday's points. Iowa State, which b..:at Iowa a week
Flanner II 1-1 games: Oklahoma fell from second to ago, downed Kent State, 28-19.
Dillon I 1-1 St. Ed's IH, Sorin 0 
Sorin 1-2 Dillon 22, Fisher 0 
Dillon II 0-2 Cavanaugh 7. Off-Campus 0 
St. Ed's 0-2 

Irish volleyball team kicks
Grace 14, Zahm 0 

Fisher 0-2 Holy Cross 6, Carrol 0 
GOLF -The interhall golf tourncment ends tomor­Here are the standings for the women's flag football 
row. All scores must be in to the NVA office by S p.m. 

off home season tomorrow
through Friday: tomorrow. 

Pasquerilla East 2-0 A definite highlight of the season
SWL\1:\tiNG-NVA is sponsoring a frc~hman swim­ByJANE HEALEY 
Farley 2-0 so far has been the emergt·nce.ofthe
ming meet for both men amt women. The me..:t is Sports Writer 
Brecn-Phillips 2-0 physical strength of all tht: players.
scheduled for October 7 at 7 p.m., and events will in­
Off-Campus I-I The team avt:rages eight points a
clude: 
The Norn· Dame Women's Vol­

Lewis I-I match on clean kills (hard, un­
'10-yard freestyle, SO-yard breaststroke, 200-yard kyhall team opens its homt: season 
Pasquerilla West 1-2 touched spikt·s) and three points a
freestyle, '10-yard back~trokc. SO-yard butterfly, I00-tomorrow night at S p.m. the ACC
Walsh 0-1 match on ace serves.
yard fr..:estyk, I00-yard individual medley, and diving. 
pit. Indiana State and Sr. Joseph's of
Badin 0-2 Diver~ must turn in their list of dives to Coach Stark, Ren~alicr will hattk the Irish in the "When you add physical strengthLyons 0-.2 

swimming coach, bciore the meet at the Rockne tri-mcct. :'llotrc Dame brings a -~-6 to our skills and mental abilities, the SOCCER -The men's soccer season is in full swing 
'VIemoria! Huilding. A contestant may only swim for the record into it~ matches after pla\'ing team is compkte," says Irish Coach .., and these are the league standings through yesterday: hall which sht· livt·~.
rcsidt·nce in h..: or Hall the tirst nine opponents on the road. Sandy \'an Slager with confidence DIVISION I repr..:st:ntativt·s must turn in a list ofentries w Stark the Last night host Chicago State "In orhc:r words, when our power is Flanncr I 3-0 day hdon· the meet at the Rockne Huilding. For more defeated Notre Dame. I 1-IS. I S-1.2, on. we're unbeatabk."
Zahm 2-0 

information pkasc call Coach Stark at 6222 or tht· inter­I-1-I 0. Loyola then followed suit.
Alumni 2-1 On..: unlul·ky break for the lri!>h
hall offk'l' at 61 00. 
dowing tht· Irish IS--1. I ~-1 S was the injurv su!>laincd by senior 




%* J!Uc4arll·s 
1i.AJH& IHE&JJ<&Nt; Open 6 days a wee~.;.
Just 

417 DIXIEWAY~-
North 

across from Wen~y~ ~,.
of 

Campus 277-0734 
personalized Hair Desi!(ns 
r--RiVERCifY-RECoiffis--1 
1 Northern Indiana's Largest Selection of Albums & Tapes. 
I 
I Why pay more any place else? 
II ~ 1 00 OFF fany regul~r ~ecord I 
I 
or tape with ad. 1.!) • • L11!11t 1 per person I Exp1res Oct. 20,1981 I 
50970 US 31 North eOpen till 10 every night I 
13 miles N~rth of Campus e ND/SMC checks cashed I 
I 
next to AI s Supermarket up to $20 over I purchase amount 
I 

277-4242 eRecord Crates available 
L 


--------------------------· 
captain Kathleen Dages. Dages' left ankle was plal'nl in a cast after a hard landing during a blocking drill in practin·. She will be out ofaction for four weeks. 
Van Slager stresses th..: impor­tanc..: of tomorrow's march. "The gtrls arc really excited to be playing in front of rhdr own fans aft..:r two away rri-mcets. Notre Dame fans arc known to be enthusiastic. and when you add the support of those fans to a solid performance by the ream. we're bound to win." 

·--------~-----­
The Observer ~--~~-~-================= 
T0 da~===============T=ue=S;'d=a=y=,S='e=p=t=em=b=e=r=2=9=,=19=8=1==p=ag=e=l~l

Molarity 


l)()()nesbury 
MR 5/.Aan'le!?, I'M 5/JRE 'F '!W ANO YOUR CfX/£1¥5Uf5 
CW TIE CWNC/l IY EC!JI.nl11C ""' IAPVISORS AI?& 1/W/lRE 1Y " : THt H6/lY 1/Nfi/VORA/JI.C ~· 
•H4RJ<:ETRtSflJNSt 70 71R ; _.-RM64NOMIC5.. / 

IOU COVU>/JT ~o TOA PAFITY wrrnwr !>OH£ON£ 13P.JNe:.JN&r A BoWL AND 11/EN Tllf1'ir 
TJI1£S,tJJTH cw~ ~lEN 1-V!IILE WATCH/Nt., CAI?Sb~. r Btc4H£ CUF'>!OUS... Cl!UD JTB£ 
A5 r,ooP AS THeY!:AY"' 56 
;r-n?J£D,, I L/l<cP 1/,, L COVL DN 'r ::££'ANY HA.RJvf 
So I ~TARTEP EA17NG! fl Wrrn FR/E:NP5 ... TJ./cN ,7/IEF{E WERE IIHE5 t.J!IE'N .I kb't5 A.LW£,I F'£LT:;: J.JEEDEP IT ,.. ANI> tf LJAS L-IK£ CJJ£BCJLJL WAS NEVE~ ~NOU6H,5ooN I WAS 13UYIN{:j HYOWN PoPLDf'!N,, 
01JSTFDRH£ 

ti/&U. 5fi.lll7DR liS !WW li5 IT 15 fOR W TrJ lirxEPT · THE RJSS/8/UTY. I'MliFRI/!0 lA/AU STREET's HOSTIUTY MAY 8E tl/tu, PERSONAl I 

WITH 1'1£1 NO Tf?CJ//~LE; I'D HflTE m HI'/Vc 'TO USE THIS!







!' ~ 
ACROSS 28 Great Lake Fox and 30 Opposes seal 34 Endure 
5 Land or sea 37 Certain 10 Small piece degree 14 Monogram 39 Emulates 
part: abbr. John Curry 15 Of musical 40 Choose sound 41 States 16 Circle positively dance 43 Workeror 17 -Ridge soldier 
(racehorse) 44 Fruit 18 Come up 46 Whopper 19 Piccadilly 47 Money 
statue players 20 Ill-fated 48 Mother and 23 Explosive father 24 Savalas 50 Equal 25 Once called 52 Go, in 26 Old English Dundee 
letter 53 Tokyo, once 
Monday's Solution 

9119/81 

Michael Molinelli 
:C CAfoJ PIEl'1Ef1B£K TIIAf Ho~f',I8LF. PAY .r WOKE' UP, .. I W.P/1115 H<\li'D Fr;f'L/N6. OF li'IJFI?-16rE" IN NY 61llHAO+, KE'RNE'LS S'1tlcI< H'i Tmlf,.. 0/L AJJP SAL./ ALL tNE.f? Hy 1""1/JC,ERS ~MP LIPS ...#Jf> (soa) ,.. 'J6T 1</Jowri\JG, WI/I=Rc .r WA5 
{5os) 


Garry Trudeau 

t£T'5 JUST 54Y 
I HADAfflil 
HEA/J5 EJI?[1HrT 
lOME. IN MY OAY, SCNATrJR. . 
I 

Jeb Cashin 
TO




The Daily Crossword 

©1981 by Chicago Tribune·N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 9/29/81 All Rights Reserved 
55 Subject of a Burns poem 
59"-pro nobis" 61 Like some 
shows 64 Indolent 66 Cream of 
the crop 67-·a·ling 68 Arrow 
poison 69 Dice roll 70 Mass. motto 
word 71 Gossip 72 Ringlet 73 Antlered 
animal 
DOWN 
Leading 2 Join 3 Enemy 4 Would-be· 
headliner 5 Deneb, 
for one 6 Royal wear 7 Liqueur 
ingredient 8 Quarter· back, often 9 Robert­10 Haggard 
novel 11 Polaris 12 Press 13 Gone 

21 St.­
(French milit21ry academy) 
22 Escritoires 27 Aunt: Sp. 29 Atlas 
feature 31 Ms Lauder 32 "A -'clock 
scholar" 33 Jets 34 Noose 35 Guam port 36 Astronomer, 
for one 
38 Queen of the under· world 
41 DeMille 42 Sallies 45 School org. 47 Urged 49 Hunting 
vessel 51 Large bird 54 House 
approach 56 Italian 
commune 57 Logic 58 Garden 
trimmer 59 Smelly 60 Indian 
princess 62 Exam 63 Hamilton 
bills 65 Up to now 

Campus 
•6:50 p.m. -lel.:turc, "reaganomics: its effect upon the poor", sergio madrigal, lati,rtune little theater. 
•"".<), I I:00 p.m. -movil-. "singing in the rain", t'ngineering auditorium. sponsored by nd-srnc council ti)r 1he retarded. admission S1.00. 
•"":00 
p.m. -prest·ntation. "c.:ffectivt· prt·sc.:nta· tions". arthur andc.:rson and co., monogram room of tht· ace. sponsored by ht·ta alpha psi. reception will ti,llow in monogram room. 

•H:OO 
p.m. -it'cture. mt·dicint·: 1ht· profc.:ssions in amt'fican history. ronald numbers. university of wisconsin, t't'lllt'f ti,r continuing t·ducation. 

•H: 
I 'i p.m. -c•mct·rt. dmitry papt·rno. pianis1, an· nenht'fg auditorium, snitt· art musn11n. 



Television Tonight 
7:00p.m. 16 Proj~·~·t l'l'an>Ck, "Tht· Big Slllfkd Dog" 22 Sp~-cial Mm·i<'. "Thl' Rl'turn of Will 
Kanl'" 28 llappy Days 34 Cosmos 46 It's Your llusinl'ss 
7:30p.m. 28 l.avl'rnl' & Shiril'y 46 (iod's Nt·ws Ill'hind tht• Nt·ws 8:00p.m. 16 Tul'sday Night at th~· Movi<'s 16 Tut·sday Night at th~· Movi<'s, "Sophis1k'a1~·d (il'nts" Part I 
28  Thrn·'s Company  
34  Odyssl'y  
46  l.t·sttT  Sumrall  Tl'aching.  "llow  to  

copt· with a passiv~· mind" 
8:30p.m.  28  llan to IIart  
46  Dwi):ht Thompson  
9:00 p.m.  22  <:us Sp~-cial  
34  Th1.·  Duchl'SS of Dukt·  Strl'l't  
Mastt·rpi<'t'l' Tht·atl'f  

46 Today with l.~·st~·r Sumrall 
!O:OOp.m. 16 Nl'wsCt·nter 16 22 .!1 Eycwitnl'ss Nl'ws 28 N~·wswatt·h lH 34 Thl' Dick CaVl'll Show 
46 (iood Nt·ws 
10:30 p.m. 16 Toni~:ht Show 22 Ali~'l' & Md:loutl 28 ABC N~·ws Ni):hlint· 34 Captioned ABC Nt·ws 46 :\1it'hiana Today 
11:00 p.m. 28 Fantasy Island 46 l'raist· tht· Lord 
11:30 p.m. 16 Tomorrow Coast to Coast 
This Day in History 
Today's highlight in history: from 
... 

In  I06(l,  William  the:  Conqueror  invaded  
England tq claim the English  throne.  
<>n1hisda1l':  
in  ll) IH.  Allied  forces  scort·d  a  dn:isivt·  

hreak1 hrough ofthe II indenburg Lint· in (ic.:rmany during World War I. 
In I925. the British mandate in Pait'stine began. 
In I961, Syria secednl from tht· llnited Arab Rq)lthlic and formed 1ht· Syrian Arab Republic. And in I9""H, Pope John Paull dil'll in his slet·p at the Vatican after a reign of 5-t days. 
Ten years ago: the prinll' ministi.Ts of Britain. Ireland and Northern Ireland, meeting in London, appealt:d for an end of violenn· in lllstt'f. 
Five years ago: Syrian troops in Lebanon drovt· Paks1inian guerrillas out of their key mountain posi1 ions east of Beirut. 
( >nt· year ago: a draft Senate rt·port said Prc.:si· dc.:nt Cartn was shown no favoritism hy the Justkt· lkpartrllt'nt in its investigation of his hrothc.:r Bil· ly's tic.:s 1o Libya. 
~*****************************************************************************************~ 
* * 
~ LIKE TO PERFORM? The NAZZi ~ .. * needs you!! ~ 
$ Get a little performing experience at Notre Dame's student $ : talent showcase in front of the most receptive crowds on : * campus. * 
* *
* * 
! · · It's fun! Contact Mary Lloyd at 277-7638 : t******************************************************************************************' 



S~orts 

ter scorinK the game-tying goal in Notre Dame's Ertelt) 
Kahale-Irish: aperfect match 
By RICK KRIST 
Sports Writer 
The Irish soccer team is off to a fine start this season with a 7-0-2 record. One reason for its early success is senior co-captain and starting center forward Sami Kahale. 
Kahale's personal statistics at Notre Dame have been impressive. 
.-He currently ranks second on the all­time scoring list at Notre Dame with 30 goals and 22 assists, including a team-leading seven goals and seven assists this season. However, Kahale is more concerned with the success of the team than his personal statis­tics. "Sami is an extremely unselfish player," comments coach Rich Hun­ter. "All week long, he has been working on his passing game. He's al­ways working for the benefit of the team, rather than trying to gain per­sonal statistics." Senior defenseman and co-captain jim Stein agrees. "In my mind, Sami is the most valuable player on the team. He is very unselfish and has been a stable influence on the-other >-players. He could score more goals if he wanted to, but instead he works on setting up other people." Although he has had a successful soccer career at Notre Dame, Kahale, who hails from Rome, Italy, came to Notre Dame with the intent ofplaying tennis. As a matter offact, he did not even know that Notre Dame had a varsity soccer team. In high school, he lettered four times in tennis and led his team to undefeated seasons and the Italian regional championship each time. He in basketball. also lettered twice in basketball. He did not play soccer until his senior year, a year in which he was selected to the Italian regional all-star team. , This year, Kahale, who is majoring in electrical engineering, is assum­ing the role of coach on the field. "We've always felt our center for­ward should be a team leader," com­ments Hunter. "Last year, it was Kevin Lovejoy. This year, Sami is taking over the role on offense, and our other captain, Jim Stein, on defense." In the past, Hunter has employed a system offrequent substitutions at the forward position. However, this year, Kahale has proven he can handle more playing time, and is usually on the field for almost the full 90 minutes. Thus far, he has logged more playing time than any • other forward. 
After graduation, Kahale -who players. We've shown that, even lived in Cairo, Egypt for three years without scholarship players, we can before moving to Rome -plans to compete with the best of the NCAA. work for a year or two and then pos­I feel we're just a few key players 
sibly enter MBA school. away from becoming one of the top In the team's recent win over teams in the nation." NCAA powerhouse St. Louis, Kahale CORNER KICKS -The un­
scored the winning goal on a penalty defeated Irish will be back in action shot in overtime. tomorrow against DePaul. The game "BeatingSt. Louis was like a dream will mark Notre Dame's first home 
come true," says Kahale. "Winning contest in two weeks. The game is that game was the biggest thrill of scheduled for 4 p.m. on Alumni Field my career at Notre Dame. It showed (east ofCartier). 
that we can play with the best in the 
NCAA." At the outset ofthe season, Hunter 
Adds respectability

said that he felt a win over St. Louis would be the start of a new era for Notre Dame soccer. 
Kahale agrees, adding, "Every 

Notre Dame jojns Bottom Ten
year, we've improved and our 
schedule has gotten tougher. Now I 
"Ifthere was a worse football game played in the his­
think we're just a step away from 
tory of Northwestern, I doubt it." 

becoming one of the top teams in 
Denny Green was hired to replace Ric Venturi at 
the NCAA." 

Northwestern. He has seen some bad football. He 
Although the program has gotten 
thought he had seen it all until Saturday's game at Utah. 
stronger year after year, many 
"Utah should feel cheated," said Green. "They carne 
people feel tO achieve the status ofa 

here for a football game and didn't get one." 
top-ranked NCAA soccer team, the 
The Utes should have epected something was up 
University must start offering 
when Green replaced five starters after their perfor­
scholarships to soccer players. 

mance last week at Arkansas. The Wildcats clawed their 
"None of our players are here on 
way back to the Bottom Ten's top spot with the decisive 
soccer scholarships," says Kahale. 
42-0 loss. 

"Teams like Indiana and St. Louis of­
The battle for No.' I was a cat fight nonetheless, as 
fer scholarships to all of their 
three Ivy League teams made strong bids. Last week's 

Tuesday, September 29, 1981 -page 12 
Freshmen Smith, Brooks silence critics 
By MICHAEL OLENIK 
Sports Writer 
WEST !.AFAVETTE, Ind. Despite the numerous negative im­plications of that difficult defeat just three days ago, there are indeed some reasons for continued op­timism. Two of the most exciting reasons to believe Gerry Faust will silence his early critics are the per· 

formances of freshmen running backs Chris Smith and Mark Brooks. 
Much to the surprise of even the most liberal Notre Dame followers , the numbers of each were called in the Irish huddle before the end of the first half And not to the surprise of Notre Dame backfield Ccoach Greg Blache, both Brooks and Smith handled the situation with a most impressive flair. 
"Each of them played very well against LSU and we wanted to give them another good opportunity to prove themselves," says Blache. "We planned on using them relatively early against Purdue because we knew that they could withstand the very physical type of defense that Purdue plays." 
"Withstand" is somewhat of an understatement, considering the game stats. Operating during the height of action, Smith and Brooks each contributed substantially to Notre Dame's first touchdown, with 

Smith finally diving over from the one-yard line to garner his initial col­legiate score. During that 7I-yard drive, Smith picked up another I6 yards, and Brooks snatched a key pass from Tim Koegel to keep the drive alive. 
For the record, Smith rushed for 50 of Notre Dame's 160 rushing yards, and Brooks snagged two passes for 17 yards. Fullback Brooks seemed satisfied with his two recep­tions fro t m a position that traditional­ly asks him to block and run. 
"I really think that you have to be diversified, and I luckily have no problems with either running or catching the ball," Brooks says. "I was kind of surprised to hear my number called on those pl.ays. but you know that I was happy to try to get the job done." 
Blache echoes Brooks' senti­ments: "Mark is a very mature and talented kid who learns well and can do anything any ofour fullbacks can do. A lot of those type of plays are dictated by the situation, and we had no problem going with Mark." 
Although Blache allows that the hype that followed Brooks seems warranted so far, he is quick to point out that Chris Smith has opened many knowledgeable .eyes very wide in a short period of time. 
"Chris has picked up our offense extremely well," Blache notes. "Mark has an added advantage being from Moeller, but Chris is learning fast how to use his good size to his advantage. He definitely has got a certain talent from the tailback posi­tion, and we feel that he will even­tually be a great bacj(." 
Smith seems to have adjusted well to the teaching of his coach, and his enthusiasm for football is not easily 
See FRESHMEN, page 9 

No. 2 team, Columbia, hung in at that position after a sparkling 28-I3 loss to Lafayette. It was the lions' I Oth loss in a row, and they helped their own cause by tur­ning the bali over to the Leopards seven times. 
The Tigers ofPrinceton vaulted from out ofnowhere after their 6I-8 beating by Delaware. Penn is the third Ivy League team in the top four. After a disappointing win on opening day, they came back to drop a razor­close, last-second game to Lehigh, 58-0. 
For the first time in the history of The Bottom Ten, we have respectability. People now take us seriously. A big name has endorsed us. Notre Dame joined the ranks of the inept with a I4-I 5 loss at Purdue. Look what Frank Sinatra did for Chrysler, what Carol Channing did for her plummer, what Ethel Merman did for Mailgrarns, and Digger Phelps did for Syracuse. 
Here's this week's poll: 
1) Northwestern (0-3) -Do Charlton Heston and McLean Stevenson have eligibility left? 
2) Columbia (0-2) -Loss to Lafayette worse than losing heat tiles. 
3) Princeton (0-2) -Have you ever seen a Blue Hen? 
4) Penn (1-1) -Ran out ofink against Lehigh. 
5) Tulsa (0-4)-Leads the nation in losses. 
6) Air Force (0-3) -Got bombed. 
7) Stanford (0-3) -"Come on guys, can't we start over?" 
8) Notre Dame (1-2) -Best start since '78. 
9) Nebraska (1-2) -I. Was Hipp. 
10) New England Patriots (0-4) -Earhardt makes 
even Fairbanks look good. Also receiving votes: Colorado State ( 0-3) Maine (0-3) Virginia ( 0-3) Quote of the Week: Northwestern Coach Dennis "Shecky" Green: "Even 
kids in the Pop Warner League can tackle." 
Freshmen fullback Mark Brooks (35) bursts through the linefor a gain during 









