--------------~--­
juggler-page 6
' ' ' 


f0 " ... e. ''"'t, rt,.r VOL. XVI, NO. 43 an independent student newspaper serving norre dame and saint mary's MONDAY;OCTOBER 23, 1981 
Robertson discusses dining hall changes 
know of the pron:ss, there wasn't

Editor's note: Few things have as 
any reason related to the way SAGA

widespread an effect on the student 
was doing the job or anything like

body of a university as its food 
that. It's just that we think we're at

service, and Notre Dame is no ex­
the point now where we can take it 

ception. With the discontinuance of 
back over and have our management

lbe contract lo the SAGA Food 
people here on campus, on the

Service this year, several changes 
Notre Dame payroll to manage the

bm1e occurred. Senior Food Service 
operation.

Director Robert Robinson discussed Q: Does student feedback enterthese changes with Observersenior into menuing decisions, and, ifso.
staffreporter Dat1id Sarpbie. 
to what extent? 
A: First of all, because of our ex­periences over a period of many years, we already know what stu­dents like. About two or three years ago, we did a detailed student preference survey on campus. It didn't tell us anything we didn't 

know already. Our campus is a little 1 , different from other campuses, be­
cause ours is pretty much a national 

Q: Has this year seen any major campus. We draw our students (rom changes in the food service? all over the country and from many 
A: There haven't been any major foreign countries, and not just from changes that we haven't already an-three neighboring towns. The nounced. Most have been pretty ob· production managers are on the vious. We increased the serving menu committee that builds the hours, adding fifteen minutes to hot menu for Notre Dame. On a daily breakfast. We open a half hour early basis they keep track of the number on Sunday evenings. We've made a of entrees produced, the number few menuing changes, adding an left over, and so on. With this in­entree to the four-week cycle or formation, they predict how often to changing an entree in the schedul-serve individual entrees and the ing. That, of course, goes on every · number ofentrees to produce. year, so we haven't made ,any major Q: Why aren't some of the more changes in the menu. popular items, pizza, for example, 
Q: What were the reasons for dis-served more often? continuing SAGA management? A: We serve pizza twice or three 
A: The University made a decision times in a four-week cycle, and we to go back to managing a basic may increase that frequency in the service in itsel[ They always did future. The reason we don't have it before, and I think it was just an ad­
See Q&A, page 3ministrative decision. From what I 



Rep.]amie Whitten, D-M1ss., catls a meetmg of dent Reagan. Reagan saidyesterday be would not congressional conferees to order Friday as .they sign a compromise budget bill. His oppommtssay try to arrive at a budget bill'acceptable to Prest-be will be responsible for putting the U.S. govern­
men( out ofbusiness. ( AP Pboto) 
Congress budget plan 
Reagan says no to compromise 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan said yesterday he won't sign the compromise budget resolution worked out between the House and Senate to return the government to solvency. 
Reagan, talking to reporters outside the White House; suggested Congress continue over the Thanksgiving holiday the spending 
Enforced retirement 
The exploitation ofemeriti 
ByJIM PLAMONDON 
News Staff 
Each year for the past twenty years, about eight or nine professors at Notre Dame reach the age of 65, retire, and are given the title of "emeritus". Although many f.tculty members actually look foward to this merited retirement, others wish to continue their careers and teach beyond this age. Despite their desires, the University of Notre Dame forces these professors to retire anyway. 
Dr. james P. Danehy, formerly a chemistry professor here at Notre Dame, challenged this policy in court in 1976. He pointed to the "Faculty Handbook ofthe Uni­versity of Notre Dame" as supporting his arguement. 
"Tenure," 
according to the handbook, "is permanence ol appointment." The definition of tenure implies 

that a person has the right ro hold an office or position. 
The faculty handbook also states that "a member of the faculty ordinarily retires and becomes emeritus on the first day of)uly following the faculty member's 6Sth birthday." These two passages in the handbook arc complt:tely contradictory. Danehy argues,"tenure is terminated by a birthday; there is nothing permanent about it." 
President Carter's 1977 amendment to the Age Dis­crimination in Employment Act ha.'i moved the retire· mcnt age to 70. The President felt that discrimination against older people was just as wrong a.o; discrimination against women, racial groups or religious groups. Danehy is upset because "Notre Dame's policy will be changed by federal law rather than recognition of jusuce." 
Professor Emiritus Rufus Rauch describes a faculty member's decision to retire as "a one way street." 
Professor of Sociology and Anthropology Dr. lrwin Press is "saddened by the fact that Notre Dame holds this policy." He adds that "the law will catch up with Notre Dame" when the 1977 amendment takes action." 
Several faculty members who are nearing the critical age of65 simply refused to comment on the issue. 
In addition to the ambiguity in the definition of tenure, Danehy contests another clause in the faculty handbook. It reads: "When a member is permitted to continue in active service beyond the date prescribed by retirement, service beyond that date will be on the basis of a year to year appointment, and the member will retire at the end of any service year unless reap-· pointed for another year." Some professors are rehired at a normal salary, teaching the same courses as before. Others, however, receive a much lower salary, three or four thousand dollars, for teaching the same courses. 
Danehy calls this "exploitation." He feels that Notre Dame takes advantage of the emeriti simply because they reach a certain age. In many cases a professor must face the decision of either losing his or her job com­pletely, or being rehired at this lower salary. 
Dr. Press believes that Notre Dame's policy is"less than charitable"in dealing with emeriti. Press is upset that "faculty members have given so much of their professional lives to the University...and haven't received fair treatment." 
Dr. Robert Vacca, assistant professor of Modern and Classical Languages, claims that the University "doesn't have a policy" and that most cases are "individualized." Yet he also realizes that the issue must not be treated as a one-sided question. "Younger people," he says,"must be given the chance to teach also." Ifprofessors insisted on teaching beyond the traditional retirement age, new teachers would lose valuble opportunities. 
Dr. Rauch, the representative for retired faculty members on the Faculty Senate, thinks that the Univer­sity has been successful in satisfying some of the 
See EMERITI, page 3 
measure wnich expired Friday. 
Expressing frustration with Congress' inability to adopt budget bills in an orderly manner, Reagan said, "This is no way to run a ra.l· road." 
On Capitol Hill, House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill said, "The presi­dent just called me to tell me he'll veto it." O'Neill spoke to reporters as he recessed the House before it could vote on the compromise. 
Reagan has vowed repeatedly to veto any "budgt-busting" funding bill. 
O'Neill made his comments after Budget Director David A. Stockman told reporters the president found the compromise worked out over two grueling days of House-Senate negotiations was unacceptable. 
Faced with the threatened veto, it was not clear that congressional leaders would ever submit the proposal to a vote. 
Officials said that instead of hoping to resolve the dispute over the measure immediately, the ad· ministration was seeking a 15-day, stripped-down extension of the expired stop-gap funding bill. That would minimize disruptions in government services while Congress and the White House worked to resolve their disagree­ments. 
Technically, the government ran out of money at 12:0 1 a.m. 
The Reagan administration earlier had declined to say whether the president would accept the com· promise plan agreed to by House and Senate conferees as meeting his austerity budget or reject it with the 
See COMPROMISE, page 4 
Campus escort service on trial this week 
By MARGARET FOSMOE 
News Staff 
The Campus Escort System has 
been placed on a trial basis this week 
in order to evaluate a lack ofinterest 
in the program, according to Brian 
Conway, Student Security Commis· 
sioner. 
The evaluation will determine 
whether student response is great 
enough to warrant continued exis­
tance of the program. If not, the 
service will be discontinued. 
The escort system was inactcd two weeks after fall break in response to what seemed to be a genuine interest in such a service. Utilization, however, has been mini· mal, with few womt~n students 
taking advantage of the service. In addition, the program has been plagued by organizational problems and a lack of male escort volunteers. 
Conway said there has been an es­cort system at Notre Dam,e on and off over past years. However, this is the first ume the program has lasted to a second consecutive year. 
The response has dropped con­siderably from last year, causing the need for a re-evaluation of the sys­tem to determine whether it will be continued. 
"Theprogram isfor the benefit of the student body as a whole~" 
Conway attributes much of the lack of interest to the fact that there have been no reported attacks after dark so far this year. This may have lulled students into a false sense of security. He warns: "Last year there were no attacks reported until about this time of year. Because of the warm autumn, more people have been out at night." Conway went on 
See ESCORTS, page 4 
News Brie s 
By The Observer and The AssociatedPres 

CIA DirectorWilliam}. Casey, one of a hand­
ful of men with broad access to the government's secret data on 
international economic developments, has reversed the practice of 
his two predecessors and kept control ofhis personal stockholdings. 
Casey and his wife own stock worth at least $1.8 million, and per­
haps more than S3.4 million, in 27 corporations with major foreign 
operations. Many of the firms are involved with oil, natural gas and 
strategic minerals and operate in nations of deep interest to U.S. 
intelligence. llnlike Casey, others with access to closely held 
economic secrets -including President Reagan, Vice President 
George Bush, Secretary of State Alexander M. Haigjr. and Treasury 
Secretary Donald T. Regan -placed their holdings in blind trusts. 
Secretary Qf Defense Caspar Weinberger divested his stock in com­
panies which do business with the Pentagon, but he did not create a 
blind trust. Casey, whose past business dealings are under investiga­
tion by the Senate Intelligence Committee, maintains ultimate con­
trol over his stocks although an investment adviser handles 
day-to-day management of the portfolio, according to CIA general 
counsel Stanley Sporkin. -AP 
Massachusetts GeneralHospital,one ofthe 
nation's major medical research centers, issued new guidelines yes­
terday ordering doctors to avoid experiments on children unless the 
risks are "decisively outweighed" by the potential benefits. In all 
human experiments, the regulations say, "concern for the individual 
takes precedence over the interests of science and society." The 
new code is the first revision ofthe hospital's ethical gudelines in 11 
years. The rules were written by the hospital's Subcommittee on 
Human Studies, which reveiws human experiments at the institu­
tion. Dr. Edgar Taft, the panel's secretary, said Massachusetts 
General's $37. 7 million research budget is the largest of any in~e­pendent hospital in the United States, and halfofthis money is spent on human studies. "We are a group ofpeople who are committed to helping others and not making life more difficult for them or poten-. tially risky, and perhaps that's why we have tended to be so con­servative," Taft said in an interview. -AP 
Almost 300,000 Spaniards, offering the Fascist 
salute and ch<~ering the leader of last February's failed right-wing coup, packed a square in front ofthe Royal Palace yesterday to mark the sixth anniversary ofthe death ofdictator Gen. Francisco Franco. Rally organizers, emboldened by rumors in recent days predicting another coup called the turnout the biggest since Franco, Spain's iron-fisted ruler for 36 years, died on Nov. 20, 1975. The militant right-wingers defied a government order prohibiting the use of military uniforms and the Spanish flag at political raies. Dressed in the blue shirts of the Fascist-style Falange party and waving tens of thousa,nds ofthe red-and-yellow flags, they shouted for freedom for Lt. Col. Antonio Tejero, the Civil Guard officer who led the storming of Parliament nine months ago in a vain bid to overthrow the con­stitutional monarchy government. Raimundo Fernandez Cuesta, chief of the 11alange party, said the rally was not a routine com­memoration, "but a national affirmation, necessary because Spain is in danger ofdestruction." -AP 
Ringo Starr, back in Britain with his new wife after two years spent mainly in the United States, says he's happier than ever. In an interview with the Sunday Mirror, the drummer, singer and former Beatie said it wasn't fear of assassination that brought him home some six months after ex-Beatle john Lennon was slain in New York. "I'd been making an album every November and releasing it the following April. It was becoming boring, like working in a fac­tory," the 41-year-old millionaire musician was quoted as saying. Starr, who has a I 7th century mansion in Berkshire, marCied actress Barbara Bach, his second wife, last April. "Barbara has changed everything," he said. "Look at me. I'm smiling more than I ever used to and I'm in love." Starr's latest album, "Stop and Smell the Roses," is dedicated to Barbara. It also carries the inscription "Thanks to My Three Brothers," the other Beatles-john Lennon, George Harrison 
and Paul McCartney. -AP 
Fr.Joseph McVeigh, a Catholic priest from Ederney, County Fermanagh, Northern Ireland, will speak in the Library Auditorium at 8 p.m. tonight. His topic will be "Northern Ireland: Past, Present, and Future." The lecture, which is sponsored by Notre Dame's Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry, is open to the public. McVeigh, who is on study leave in the United States, was a Catholic chaplain at Long Kesh Prison from 1971 to 1975. During the con­troversial parl.iamentary campaign of the IRA hunger striker Bobby Sands, McVeigh urged Catholic voters in Fermanagh and Tyrone to elect Sands and to make "a clear and direct statement to the British government: 'Rule with justice or get out." Since last April, Fr. McVeigh has been barred from Long Kesh Prison by Church authori­ties and government officials in Northern Ireland. -The Observer 
Cloudy and not as cold todaywith a 6o per­
cent chance of light snow irl the morning changing to rain in the afternoon. High in the mid to upper 30s. Rain ending tonight. Low in the low to mid 30s. Mostly cloudy and warmer tomorrow. High in the upper 30s to low 40s. -AP 

THE INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME 'AND SAINt MARY'S 
FOUNDED NOV. 3. 1966 

Monday, October 23, 1981 -page 2 
Still on the Reagan team? 
When Office ofManagement and Budget Direc­
tor David Stockman began an eight-month series 
of interviews with William Greider, assistant 
managing editor of the Washington Post, he 
probably didn't realize the furor the article, 
published in the December issue of Atlantic 
Monthly, would create. In the 24-page piece Stockman did a lot of damage to the economic program President Ronald Reagan has tried to sell Congress and the public. Stockmam attacked the President's plans for budget balancing, tax cutting and defense spending, invalidating the program Stockman himself had worked "twenty hours a day for ten months" to shape. As the Atlantic ar' tide quotes in reference to his recommendations for cuts in Social Security benefits, a statement that easily . applies to his present situation, "Basically, I screwed up quite a biC' 
Stockman has never denied_ his quotes published inAtlantic but, instead has qucs~ioned Greider's right to quote him. "Do people think I'm (Stockman) a dope?" he questioned immediately after the story broke. "Does anybody think I'm stupid enough to say things like that with my name attached to it?" Yes, 
00 David, we do. "Nowhere ~ in our conversations did he (Stockman) ever say a word about 'This is all off ~ the record' or 'You're not ..~nfl,~[![j/f$ ]I going to quote me, right?" journalist Greider responded. The 18 At-YOU HAD TO TElL! lantic interviews were YOU JUST HN> TO TELL 1 conducted over an eight-\ month period, with "'-. plenty of time for Stock-man to refute any state­ments, and the OMB • director even posed for the magazine's photog­rapher last month. 
Since the inital uproar, 
however, Stockman's 

charges of Greider's un-.J...JII:,;iilll~iiii·II·IW with 35 tiny hatchets (to 
fair quoting have turned into a "misunderstanding" between the two, "not an act of bad faith" on either side. It's doubtful that Greider, a respected journalist and friend to Stockman would be unethical in his dealings with Stockman and publish something that was originally intended to be kept out ofprint. Instead it's much more probable that Stockman felt too relaxed and said too much to a newsman not afraid to do his job -reporting the facts. 
Stockman's apologies for his "loose talk," "poor judgment," "careless rambling" and use of a "rotten, horrible, infortunate metaphor (supply­side economics as a "Trojan horse" policy) have been delivered to the President, press and public, but one wonders when Stockman, if ever, will be forgiven. Greider's article, "The Education of David Stockman," reveals a candid, bureaucrat with enough courage to speak his mind but per­haps too foolishly. 
Reagan was angered by Stockman's remarks, yet 
The_OhserYe 
Design Editor ...................... lisa Bontempo Design Assistants .....-........ Marilyn Larkin Mike McCaughey Layout Staff.......................................... Sandy Typesetter .................................. Birthday Oz News Editor .......,............. Cathy Domanico Copy Editor ............................. Paula Groves Features Layout.............. Paul Kosid9wski Sports Copy Editor .................. Ed Konrady Typist ......................................... David Grote Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor ......................... David Grote SMC Day Editor ....................... Cece Baliles AdDesign .................................. Fran & Tom Photographer..................... linda Shanahan Guest Appearances ..: ......................... Sandy Vanian Trippers Buckeye Bears (faster than a speeding Vanian) Moose BeU Roper and the Cows 


an intelligent asset to the Reagan administration, an asset it can't do without. For as much uproar as Stockman has caused, he still is a hard working, dedicated man who wants to remain a part of the President's "very happy group." His team, however, has been bickering among themselves lately, with Secretary of State Alexander Haig ab­solutely sure that someone is trying ~o replace him (not a bad idea, actually) and National Security Adviser Richard Allen misplacing a $1,000 (or is it $10,000?) token "gratituity" from· a Japanese monthly requesting an interview with Nancy Reagan. 
Stockman's credibility has been damaged more severely than Reagan's but Americans still want him to keep his job. The latestAssociated Press-NBC news poll shows th~t a majority of citizens who are familiar with the Stockman situation think the OMB director should remain and that his com­ments have not changed their minds about the 
li&.~..._.. chances of success ,for Reagan's economic program. Besides, Stock-man knows the budget better than anyone else. For Stockman's 35th birthday, Administration members gave him a cake 
symbolize his attempts to slash the goverment's overgrown budget) as well as at-shirt proclaiming "I AM A TEAM PLAYER." Stockman should con­tinue his membership, struggling with the dif­ficulties of the. bureaucracy, for of all Reagan's "team players," Stockman is one of the most vital members, much too valuable to lose. ' 
Observer notes.____---.. 
The Observer is accepting contributions for The Landon Turner FD.nd, created to help defray medical expenses for the Indiana University bas­ketball start paralyzed in an automobile accident this summer. Send your contribution to The Observer-Landon Turner Fund, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. 
Cogim6• g aUt egign 
18461 St. Rd. 23 South Bend, call jor appotntment 2 77-18 7 
NOVEMBER SPECIAL!* 
-~hampoo, conditioner, cut style Guys-$7.00 (reg. 13.00) Girls-$10.00 (reg. 18.00) 
*with Co-Designers only 
Editorial Board 

Editor-in-Cbief..............................john McGrath 

J:::xecutive News liditor.........................Kelli i'llnt 
Sports J:::ditor ..............................Michael Ortman 
NewsEditor.................... -............Tim VerceUotti 
Editorials Editor.......................Anthony Walton 
News Editor..................... : .......David Rickabaugh 
Photo Editor.................. : ..................... John Macor 
The Observer is an . independent 'ditonals represent the opinion of . a SMCExecutive Editor...........Mary Agnes Carey 
. Features Editor .........................Gregory Swien;z
·;;ewspaper published by the students of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commen· SMC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint taries, opinions and letters are the views of Mary's College. It does not necessarily their authors. Column space is available to 
Department Managers 
reflect t!~e policies of the administration of all members of the community, and the free either Institution. The news is reponed as expression of varying opinions on campus, 
BusinessManaser ..........................Rich Coppola
accurately and as objectively as possible. through letters, is encouraged. 
Proauction Manager...................Michael Monk <.:ontroller ............................................ .joe Multlur P.O.BOXQ,NOucEDAME, IN 46556 l~l9)283-8b61 Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan AavertisingManager.......................Chris Owen 
J 
The Observer Resolves little 
Allen investigation continues 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Justice Department officials doubt that na­tional security adviser Richard V. AI· len received S10,000 instead of ! I ,000 from two Japanese jour­nalists, but that possibility is still being investigated, it has been 
learned. 
Meantime, presidential counselor Edwin Meese III said yesterda)(, "I don't sec any plans at the present time for Mr. Allen to leave the White envelope the money was in and "some kind of receipt" found in the safe. 
Miss Kamisaka has been quoted by two major Tokyo newspapers as saying she reminded Allen several times that she needed a receipt for the SI,000 she gave him for helping arrange the interview. Allen repeatedly promised to mail her a receipt but it never arrived, said Miss· Kamisaka. 

Allen has said he took the honorarium to spare Mrs. Reagan embarrassment an t d put it in his office safe, where he forgot about it until the cash was discovered by someone else eight months later. 
Thc Justice Department is in­vestigating the Allen affair, but department sourccs who asked not to be identified have said the lawyers handling the case believe Al­len committed no ~rime. 
-----------------,-----------<~ 
l 4
Monday, October 23, 1981-page 3 
j 


House" as a result of receiving the 
money as an expression of the two 
journalists' gratitude for obtaining a 
• QandA
Jan. 21 interview with First Lady • • Nancy Reagan. "lintil and unless there's some ad­know how many more. It's a worse
continuedfrom page I 

verse information that comes to situation than we had hoped for. We light, I think the situation will any more often is the tremendous had hoped more studcnts would get remain a..-; it is," Meese said on CBS­
production problem-involved. We tired of the long lines at North and TV's "Face the Nation" program. 
have to be careful with the menu get over to the South. Early in the Meese also confirmed that he was 
planning so that we can produce it semester we didn't have the equip­the person who brought the FBI into 
properly. We know it's popular, and ment over there to keep up with the the ca..<;e, wlren he learned that 
we think we're serving it enough for demand. We've added tw9 new S I ,000 had been discovered in a safe 
our purposes. On the other hand, if kettles in the kitchen and a couple of in one of Allen's offices. "It was my 
we have an item that continually people to the staff. If they arc still responsibility a,<; a federal official to 
isn't eaten by very many students, it running out now, it's because report that information to the FBI," 
will tend co go off the cycle com­someone is making an error. he said. 
pletely, or it will be menucd less fre­H T c defended the handling ofthc 
quently. Liver and onions is one 

Q: Are there any plans for the
affair by White House officials, but 
where we may serve seven or eight 

creation of a soup and sandwich
said "whenever you have these hundrcd portions in both dining 
bar?
things come up they do some 
halls when we serve it. We don't take damage" to an administration. But it off the menu completely, because A: It is still only in the planninghe said, "we hope it's not too great." some people do like it. We just serve stages. Right now, -we're trying to The japanese newspaper 
it less frequently. 

decide if ifs feasible or not -
Mainicbi quoted sources Thursday whether we have the space. for it and Carol Losi, a native ofOrange, California, is host ofthe evening as saying "the most important thing Q: To meet the increased demand how we could 4o it. !'in working concert which can be beard Wednesdays at 10 p.m. on WSNDIFM. 
the FBI asked japanese police to in· at the North Dining Hall because of with the Student Senate and the food (photo by Linda Shanahan)
vcstigatc was the amount paid to Al­the opening of the two new 
committee on it right now. ---_::;...--------~---­
len, bccausc the figure written on Pasquerilla dorms, has there been 
tht· cnvelopt· (containing the cash) an increase in the budget and num­
Q'Aretbereanyptamfo">t~d-: SMC Business Club~5~"'"'-~-" I
could possibly be read as SI0,000 ber ofportions served there? 
instead of S1,000" ingthedinnerhoursto7p.m.? , :&/4»'4f4'.00f@4W/?l-Mffi&& & N.D. Marketing Club , 
A: Currently, there arc no p1ans to ' ' Tokyo police and U.S. .Justicc 
A: How naive do you think we are! change the normal dinner hours of ' ' Department officials rcfuscd to com­
If we know there arc 500 more 4:30 to 6:30. ' ' 
ment on that report, but yesterday, people to feed, that must go into ourthe Japanese newspaper Asabi menu planning. t PARTY t quoted Fuyuko Kamisaka, the free­
lance journalist who conducted the t TONIGHT at Senior Bar! t 
interview, and an editor for the Q: If thai is true, then why, more wonwn's magazine which printcd it often than not, is the main entree t 9:30 to ? t as saying they gave a S1,000 thank­gone by 6 p.m.? What accounts for 
t Members and Guests Welcome! t
' 


you fcc in the form of I0 bills in Ibis incons(stency? SI00 denominations. It was learned that U.S. Justice 
·Department officials believe the A: When that happens, it is be­possibility of a $10,000 payment cause we didn't plan for enough. The will prove to be a dead end, but they best thing for you, the student, to do arc awaiting additional information is to let them know that. You can from the FBI. either look for the manager or direc­It could not be learnt·d why tor then, write a comment card, or Justice Department officials had not come yell at me, but let someone dismissed the possibility the pay­know wc ran out. They obviously ment wa..-; S10,000. The New York know, but student input with some­Times quoted an unidentified ad­thing like that helps me make sure ministration official in yesterday's we're doing the job we should be cditions as saying the tigure doing. "51 0,000" wa..<; written on both the The manager and production staff over at the North Dining Hall ha..<; been working very hard to make
• • • Emeriti 
sure that things like that don't hap­
pen. Obviously, when we started 
this fall, we knew we were going to 

continuedfrom page I 
have more people, but wf! didn't in satisfying some of the retiree's needs. In 1979 and 1980, the Faculty Senate looked into the problem and presented a report to the University. Consequently medical benefits and other nccds were given to the emeriti who needed them. Raul·h is "optimistic" about the financial 
::: futurt• of retirt·d professors. : :' At present tht· Student Senate is abo considcrinJ.: tht· issue of man­datqry retirement. :vtany Mudents. have exprt·sst·tl thl'ir conet·rn for the professors who have bn·n af­fn·tctl by Notre Dame's policy or lack of it. 
. :.; 

The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dur1ng exam and vacaiiOn penods The Observer 1s published by !he students of Notre Dame and Sa1n1 Mary s Col­lege Subscnpl1ons may be purchased lor $25 per year ($15 per semester) by Wrlllng The Observer p 0 Box a Notre Dame Indiana 46556 
The Obaerver IS a member of The Assoclat6d Press All reproduc11on nghls are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 


. 

If you desire financial assi~tancc, sch()lursbip, or guarillltt.•cd job opportunities upon graduation; then you should enter.... ...,_8 December 
As an important date on your calender! 
That is the Jay we arc prO\·iJing information and intcr\'icws in all areas of: 
AVIATION l:'NGINEERING PERSONNEL •MANAGEMENT 
at l'otrc Dame Uni\·ersity. Salaries start from 17,200 increasing to 28,600-45,700 in four years. 
Openings are also a\·ailable in: !\laterials 1\lanagement Donors Business Administration Nurses 
1\:udcar Enginct.·ring Lawyers 
For more information or appointment for intcr\'iew t.·all: 
.11--269-619-or 1-800-382-9404 extension 6197 
DcpartnH.'nt of the 1\:a\'y ;-; 1\. Pennsyl\'ania St. Office, M6 (OPO) Indianapolis, IN. 46204 

) 
Monday, October 23, 1981 
The Observer page 4 
N.D. students enjoy semester at sea 
ByDavid Guffey 
News Staff 
A year ago Chris Patricaski, a senior biology student, was on a schooner just off the Virgin Islands participating in an acreditied program called Sea Semester, and last Friday Patricoski gave a slide presentation and discussed the program which took him to sea for 54 days. 
Sea Semester is run by a private 
educational institution affiliated 
with several major colleges includ­
ing M.I.T., Cornell, and Boston Col­
lege. The program includes a six 
week shore component at Woods 
Hole, Massachusetts and a six week voyage aboard the research vessel Westwind. 
Patricoski left for Woods Hole in the Fall of last year. He and twenty participants spent the six weeks there taking three classes on sub­jects relating to the literature and science ofthe sea. 
Although the sea.-portions of the program begin in various ports around the East coast and Carribean, Patricoski's left from Woods Hole. From there, the ship headed north, made a loop around the Eastern At­lantic and then headed south for the warmer waters ofthe Carribean. 
Aboard ship, the participants have a rigorous schedule of classes and crew member duties. Duty times, called "watches" were spread throughout the entire twenty-four hour day and included kitchen, ship maintenence and scientific chores. The Westwind, according to Patricoski, "is one ofthe most active research vessels in the world." Much of his watch time was spent taking recording them for the government and research organizations. 
When the ship was near an island, 
participants were usually allowed to 
go ashore provididng that they were 
back to take their watches. 
Patricoski said that he went ashore a 
few times on some of the Carribean 
islands, was able to go snorkeling 
along the Tobago coral reef. 
Patricoski was the first Notre 
Dame student to participate in the 
program, but he commented that 
scheduling and transfer of credits 
was not difficult. 
Next semester two Notre Dame juniors, Jeanne Grasso and Barbra Jacobs will be participating in Sea Semester. Grasso commented that the cost of the program is com­parable to a semester at NotreDame. Transportation costs, hewever, to the port pf rendezvous made it slightly more expensive. 
Notre Dame is not directly af­
fliated with the Sea Education As­
sociation which conducts the Sea 
Semester. Daniel Winicur, assistant 
Dean ofthe college ofScience, com­
mented that there have been no 
problems fitting it into the academic 
programs of the' students who have 
decided to go. 
Dean Winicut commented that it 
"is a super program, from everything 
I've been told it is a well worthwhile 
experience that one can't get in the 
classroom." He also commented "I 
wish I'd had the oppurtunity to do it 
myself." 
There are eight sea semesters a 
year, however space is limited so ac­·ceptance into them is selective. Ap­plicants are chosen, ~ccording to Patricoski, by grades and e:x;tra­curricular activities invovled with water. One need not be a science 


100 spectators turned out in yesterday's cold to (photo by Linda Shanahan) witness the men's interhall football champion­
• • • Compromise 
readings on various instruments and student to apply. House was advising House and *****.*************** Senate lea~ers 
to try to change the

_M, ' · ~ plan when It reaches the floor . 
..,... Buy 
~ White House Chief of staffJames ~ . -.,... A. Baker lll, Stock11,1an and Max L. ~ iC Friedersdorf, the president's chief 
~ ·Observer ~congressional lobbyist. ,met with 
-.,... • -.,... House and Senate GOP leaders ~ _ _ ~ before the chambers went into ses­
'f• d 

~ sioti yesterday. 
• c ass1 1e s -.,... 
The administration officials ... 1 -iC returned to the White House to dis­
******************** cuss the situation_ with ~eagan.
. Later, Senate atdes satd {he prest-. 
continuedfrom page 1 
first veto ofhis presidency. 
Edwin Meese III, one of President Reagan's top advisers, said the con­ference agreement "did not produce the kind of savings in domestic programs that ·we would have Iike4, and also they have not yet resolved the problem of (foreign military aid)." · 
Questioned on CBS' "Face the Na­tion", Meese said the conference report achieved "a very low level of savings" and he indicated the White 
monaay!night film senes1l 
Monda)', November 23 
Cries and Whispers Directed by lngmar Bergman, 
1972 (106 min.) Very lew works in the cinema carry this Intensity, honesty and seriousness of purpose. An Invaluable source lor the 
study of formal and Informal cinematic elements, and, at the same time an example of the formidable Swedish director worki~g at the top of his bent. A majestic example 
of the art of the cinema. 
THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 7:30pm admission_$1.00 ..sponsored by NO -SMC COMMUNICAT10N & THEATRE 
dent called Senate Majority Leader Howard H. Bake,: Jr., R-Tenn., asking that Congress adopt a simple 1 5-day extension of an interim spending plan that lapsed Nov. 20. 
But during House debate, Rep. Sil­vio 0. Conte, R-Mass., urged the president to accept the c9mpromise measure. 
"This continuing resoluti~n is not the place for a fight to the death," Conte said. 
Aveto would send Congress back. to the drafting table -and plunge the entire federal government into a 
continuedfrom page 1 
to emphasize that with the advent of cold weather, the campus will be 

.. more deserted at night, providing little protection for a lone female. This, he says, is the importance of maintaining the escort system. 
The system works on a volunteer basis, with each male dorm supply­ing escorts for a particular night and 
time. Escorts are av~lable at the library to escort a woman to her dorm from 10-11:45 p.m. Else­where, women may call 7668 to be escorted anywhere on campus from 7-12 p.m. 
Conway insists the program has had plenty of publicity, with posters !"Javing been hung in all ofthe female dorms. 
He emphasized that the response and evaluation this week will determine whether th~ 'escort sys­tem will ultimately be maintained or dropped. If only one or two calls are 
WELCOME! 
s2000FF I 
I 

Any large Deep Dish SicilianPizza 1 
Good at Cleveland Road store across 1 
from University Park Mall • 277-5300. I 
Onecouponperpiu.a. Expires December 5, 198ll 

! 
••~ble'l\9~•••• 

FREE I 
Pitcher of Coke I 
with any large Monster Pizza I Good at Cleveland Road store across I from University Park Mall • 277-5300. I One coupon per pizza. Expires Sept. -19. 1981. I 
•••'Noble1lomatt~ •••.1

new work week without funds to operate. 
"There are a lot of numbers float­ing around up there and we have to sort them out," Friedersdorf said af­ter· House and· Senate negotiators reached their post-midnight agree­ment yesterday. 
Senate Leader Baker and House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill, ~-Mass., 

called the two chambers into after­noon sessions to consider the bill. 
The floor action capped a frantic few days ofcongressional activity to replace existing legislation that expired at midnight Friday. 
The measure is necessary be­cause, except for congressional operations, none of the regular ap­propriations bills has been signed in­to law. 
• • • Escort 
received, it will be assumed the in­terest is simply not present, said Conway. "The program is for the l;>enefit of the student·oody as a whole. The _evaluation will determine ifthe student body feels It is an important and necessary program, and whether it should be retained." 
Pittsburgh 
bus 

available 
The Thanksgiving Pittsburgh Club 

Bus has a limited number of seats 
available. 
The buses will leave Wednesday at 1 p.m. from the CCE and leave Pittsburgh Nov. 29 at I p.m. from the Greyhound terminal downtown. A round trip is S45; one way fare is 
529. Call Brian at 1581 to make reservations. 
JUST TWO YEARS IN -1ilrr 
THE ARMY CAN HELP ~~ 
PAY FOR COLLEGE. ., 
I 
These days, money for college is becoming harder and harder to find. Except for people who look in today's Army. 
, The Army combines good-sized college benefits 
I 
with a short two-vear enlistment. So you could a~cumulate $15,200 for 
college and be home to use it in just two years. 
I•. 

You'll also bring home the kind of maturity that can help in college. 


So, if you're in a hurry to earn money for school, consider the Army's two-year enlistment. It can get you money for college before you even start to lose your study habits. ­
I 
Serve your country as you serve yourself. . See the Yellow Pages under "Recruiting." 
. 
Or call: 
.
' 

SFC HAMILTON 234-4187 
'';@''
&;.:l ARMY.

• ALLYOU CAN BE. 
· : :: 
:·· 


~--------~~---~--------------~----­
The Observer Monday, October 23, 1981 -page 5 

Robert Wack, a member ' of Dr. Hellentha/'s Aquatic Ecology class, clearly enjoys searching 
Protests mar German _visit by Brezhnev 
BONN, West Germany (AP) ­Soviet President Leonid I. Brezhnev arrived here yesterday for his first visit to the West in two years. Chan­cellor Helmut Schmidt was at the airport to welcome the Soviet leader and top level Kremlin officials and joined the motorcade rhat bypassed the site of anti-Soviet and peace protests. 
Brezhnev and his party, which in­cluded Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko, arrived just af­ter 7 p.m. at Bonn-Cologne airport, ringed by hundreds ofarmed guards. 
The ailing Soviet leader, who will turn 75 next month, moved careful­ly with short steps as he descended the Aeroflot jetliner's steps to meet Schmidt and West German Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher. At one point he almost lost balance and was grabbed by a Soviet military of­ficer. 
Hours before the Kremlin chief arrived, 50,000 people took part in three anti-Brezhnev demonstrations in the West German capital to protest Moscow's military and human rights policies and demand nuclear disarmament. 
Brezhnev's talks with Schmidt and other officials have taken on new Im­portance because of the growing West European peace movement and next week's U.S.-Soviet talks on 
reducing nuclear missiles in Europe. The government mobilized 5,000 police to protect the Kremlin leader, and ordered about 20 groups of Af­ghan and other refugees to stay home. Agovernment spokesman said'On­ly refugees who had applications pendingfor political asylum were af­fected, but others were free to demonstrate. Earlier, officials rejected the Soviet Embassy's re­quest to, ban all protests during Brezhnev's four-day visit. 
In St. Joe county 
SMC chooses 'Hospice~. for charity 
By KANDY POWELL 
News Staff 
Hospice of St. joseph County has been chosen as Saint Mary's College charity for this year, Hospice was chosen through the result of a school survey given by Saint Mary's student government. Twenty-one­hundred surveys wen; distributed to tht· student body listing six possible charitys. Over 50 percent of the sur­veys were returned and the majority vote was determined to be Hospice. 
Hospice of St. joseph County is located in the Angela Building across from the St. joseph Hospital. It is a special program of health care for the terminal patient. Hospices don't fo<;us on death, but on the period of life that i~ left -making it more meaningful for the patient. 
Thl' interdisciplinary hospice team inludes a registered nurse as patient care coordinator, a volun­teer coordinator, the medical direc­tor, a social worker, a spiritual coordinator, an office manager, and volunteer nurses. Together they provide services for both family and patient. Hospice views its role as being four-fold, to provide medical relief for pain, to educate those in­volved in home care, to provide sup­portive servies, and to provide bereavement follow-up and council­ing for the family for up to a years time. 
Betsy Boyle, a Saint Mary's stu­dent, is the first intern to St. Joseph's 
NOW 

TO •.• 
O'HARE-MIDWAY 
SPECIAL 

6 
TRIPS 
DAILY 
Ask Yovr Travel Agent For The Big Svs To O'Hare 
Or Call 234-3108 
. Indiana Motor Bus 
Police fear clash in Northern Ireland 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland (AP) 
-Police arrested three Protestant 
militants driving a van full of ex­
plosives yesterday, a day· before 
planned demonstrations and a 12­
hour general strike by Protestants demanding Britain crack down on the IRA. 
A police spokesman said the van was stopped at a checkpoint near Newtownards, a staunchly Protes­tant town I 0 miles east of Belfast. The Rev. lan Paisley, who has or­ganized today's "Day of Action" protest, plans to parade men of his vigilante-style Third Force in the town tonight. 
More than 600 members of the 
Third Force,, some of them armed, 
marched through two villages in 
Londonderry, northwest of here, 
Saturday night. It was the first time 
since Paisley founded the group two 
weeks ago that its members had 
publicly brandished weapons. 
~ yam wibk fa o1tUUK 

OBSBRUeR 
PHOTOGRAPHS 
fJc.al ktwe ap~eawl Ut Ute ~apell 
Send $4.00 and the date and photographer's name to: 
John Macor 
Photo Editor 
Box Q 

Notre Dame Indiana 
46556 

Include a return address . 
The events heightened police concern that violence will erupt during today's protests. The demonstrations were called to protest Britain's failure to prevent the assassinations of 1 0 Protestants this month -including a Protestant member of the British Parliament repesenting Northern Ireland -by the almost exclusively Roman Cath­olic I-rish Republican Army. ' 
Bergan 
returns here 
Dr. Thomas P. Bergin, Dean of Continuing Education and a mem­ber of the National Council on the Arts, has returned to Notre Dame af­ter participating in the annual meeting ofthe International Council of Fine Arts Deans in Los Angeles. 
The spire ofSacred Heart Cburcb and the Golden Dome, two of the most recognizable edifices, stand patiently awaiting the com­ing ofwinterand thepromise ofsnow. (photo byLtndaShanahan) 
Stanford MBA 
REPRESENTATIVE COMING TO CAMPUS FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4 
A representative of the Stanford Graduate School of Business will be on campus to discuss with interested students the exceptional educational opportunity of the Stanford MBA Program. 
Appointments may bt' made through The Placement Office 
The Stanford MBA Program is a two-year general management course of studies designed for men and women who wish to develop management skills to meet the broad responsibilities required in both the private and public sectors today and in the future. 
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS STAN FORD UNIVERSITY Stanford, California 94305 
Hospice. Anyone is able to volunteer to work for Hospice. It requires a three week training course consist­ing of two three hour sessions a week. The sessions teach the volun­teers about patient care and family need. An internship to Hospice is available through Saint Mary's sociology department. 
Hospice was started through fun­

ding by the Junior League of South Bend. The program receives no state money. They do, in special cases, receive third party benifits, but most of their funds are from personal donations. Saint Mary's student government will start their money 
raising  campaign  at  the  end  of  
january.  All  donations  will  go  
towards  helping  terminally  ill  
patiems aqd their families.  

--------------------------~---~-----------­
Features 
Monday, October 23, 1981-page 6 
Juggler tradition • • • 
T
he most rect:nt issue of the suspending its budget. However, group ofliterary enthusiasts, but juggler, Notre Dame's various faculty members including the entire NO/St. Mary's com­student-run literary magazine, the magazine's current advisor, munity. Anyone may contribute to came out last Thursday. The]ug­Prof. John Matthias, managed to the magazine, which accepts gler? A literary magazine? That save the]uggler. poetry. prose, artwork and photog· must be for English majors or those This magazine has an impressive raphy. Faculty advisor Matthias few who are really into poetry. Un· legacy. Nearly every one ofits believes the absence ofa literary fortunately, too many people feel editors has gone on to distinguish magazine on campus is "like this way about a very fine publica· himself as a writer. Michael Ryan, . having a University without a tion. editor during the 1966-67 chemistry lab." 
academic year, has won the Walton, Kreitzburg and Matthias coveted ''Yale Younger Poets stress that young writer~ need to
By Bill Kracklauer 
Prize." Other notable former have an audience in order to Published under the aegis ofStu· editors are Michael Patrick 
progress. But more importantly. dent Activitie~ and moderator Fr. O'Connor, Larry Siems, Rory 
people must be exposed to the Mario Pedi, thejuggler has a long Holscher and John Santos, who is 
arts. Thejuggler is an integral part and distinguished history here at Notre Dame's most recent Rhodes ofthe University which people Notre Dame. The first independent Scholar. 
take too lightly. It suffers an image literary magazine to appear on Last year, thejuggler entered 
problem because too few people 

The Ozark Mountain Daredevils entertained the crowd at the
have any knowledge ofits purpose

campus was the Script, which was the "Coordinating Council of 
Country Rockjam this weekend. 

published ftom 1929 until the Literary Magazines" national com­and content. Notre Dame and St. beginning of World War II. During petition for the first time and was Mary's should be places where the war years, the University awarded second place. Prof. Mat· people broaden their horizons­
-including their awareness ofthe

thought oflittle else than vtctory in thias feels that it may have won Europe and the Pacific. But in other awards had it been a more 
arts. 

President faces a
April, 1947, the first issue ofthe frequent .entrant. Thejuggler will be available this the]uggler became available for With such impressive creden­
Mondav and Tuesday and again after distribution. tials, why does the]uggler sell 
the hre.ak for only twenty-five Sadly, thejuggler ha~ always had relatively few is.sues? Editors An­
fickle press corps
cents. Copies may be picked up in a bit ofan image problem. thony Walton and Doug 
the English Department office, room Recognized nationwide as a supe· Kreitzberg feel that much ofthe 
309 O'Shaugnessy and at the rior campus literary publication, Notre Dame/St. Mary's community 
bookstore. A quarter is not much to the magazine nearly died in in misjudges the magazine's purpose. 
pay for a publication with such a If the job ofthe president ofthe. United States was to jump 41 feet, I 968. Because ofpoor circulation, Both stress that the]uggler is not long tradition ofexcellence. run a mile in three minutes or swim the English Channel both ways the University contemplated intended to only serve a select without an escort, we would never have had a successful president. Ifthe job ofthe president ofthe United States was to run the country perfectly to the satisfaction ofeveryone, which it is, we'd never have had a completely successful president either. We never have, ofcourse.
• • • Continues in '81 
. President Reagan is beginning to tum against newspaper and television reporters who suggest he's less than perfect. He's begin­ning to suggest that they're unfair. He's beginningto say that some of 
T
he first thing one notices about 
the people in his administration are talking too much.
resonant poems. Anthony Walton the fall issue oftheJuggler is I personally hope that the president keeps doing the.best he can. I
shows to readers wh.o only know that it is nothing like last year's hope that' re.riorters stay on his tall, hounding him about every pos­
him from his editorial column publication. Despite the quality sible mistake he may be making. Finally, I hope the people in his ad· 
other facets ofhis talent. Before and success oflast year's Juggler, ministration continue to leak
the Storm is a beautiful, tender including a second place award in tidbits ofinformation to the
poem ofthe loneliness that comes a national competition ofcollege pres~. Most ofall, I hope he
when love is lost. Summertime is a literary magazines, this year's does a good job and retains
humorous sketch ofthe im· editors, Douglas Kreitzberg and the trust the people ofthis
aginative wanderings brought on Anthony Walton, felt a few changes country put in him when they
by the heavy, sweltering heat ofa were in order. From what Icansee, elected him. iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
summer's day.the changes that were made only President Reagan ought to , . 
"Brother,"·one ofthree poems

enhance what is already an excel­remind himselfevery night before he and Nancy go to bed that we
by Marcia McBrien is interesting 

lent literary magazine. n~ver promised him it was going to be easy. We never said, when we
both for its content and its subjectOne drawback to last year's col· voted for him, that we wouldn't criticize him. I suspect he's made
matter. The subject ofthe poem is 

lection ofpoem~. short stories, and some terrible mistakes, and he probably knows it, too. Why would
a dermoid cyst, tumors appearing
(Elizabeth Burlage, Paul 

drawings was that with such an he think smart, experienced reporters with inside informati~n
on the body which are in fact the
Kosidowski, Tom Kovacevic, Mar­wouldn't know about them ?
remains ofa spontaneously 
cia McBrien, John Savoie, Melita Ifsomeone wrote a viciously critical and inaccurate story about

By Jenny Pitts aborted twin. The thoughts of
Schaum, Anthony Walton), short me tomorrow, my inclination would be to find the person who

carrying around these remains are
stories Qohn Burbridge, Douglas wrote it, confront him and suggest he step out into the alley. Ifthe

bewildering if not eerie. McBrien 

abundance ofmaterial, much did Kreitzberg) and a short play by reporter was a woman, I'd think ofsomething else to suggest.
captures'both the ecrieness

not receive the full attention war­Greg D'Alessandro. Although each Apresident can't get into any alley fights, and when he takes theranted. This year the Juggler will is an individual creation, thfre and the unusally close yet empty job he should know he can't. He's got to swallow criticism along be published in three smaller feeling the surviving twin must
does seem to be a common con­with high and unreasonable praise and understand that neither is ab­issues (rather than the one large cern that is focused upon. That is, it feel. (''I imagine you sometimes in solutely accurate. 

issue) in an effort to avoid this is a highly imagistic, somewhat sur­complementlWhat you are or The press has ultimately gotten to everypresident we've ever had;problem. In addition to the current realistic collection. were..."). This is a fine a poem as I can't remember one who didn't eventually ask the press to step outJuggler, the editors will publish a one will read anywhere, including 
John Macor's tranquil, scenic into the back alley. I can see that coming now with President Reagan
second iSsue early next semester English class. 
photographs seem even more so and I wish 'there was some way it could be avoided. The best chance
and a third in the: spring. The con­Perhaps my favorite (ifit is
when contrasted with Richard we have is his sense ofhumor. It isn't easy to keep a sense ofhumor
siderably smaller issues should al­indeed possible to make such a
Stevens' eerie amusement park when someone attacks you, the kind ofjob you're doing, your wife,
low the reader to focus his choice) is An Autumn Talt by
photographs. Stevens' distorting your family and your friends, but President Reagan ought to under­
attention more dosely without Douglas Kreitzberg. The imagery
technique results in an overall con­stand that we expect him to have Christ-like qualities. 
being overwhelmed. in this short story is wonderfully 
vex illusion with individual figures What the press does to a president is almost as a democratic a
The change from a bound paper­precise, yet there is an aura offas­
strangely disproportionate. The two process as a national election. There are more than 8,000 news
back volume to a glossy, magazine­cination, an ineffable quality which
almost grotesque figures in one people in W T ashington writing about events there and reporters ac­
like volume was also distances it from the reader. The
photograph are incongruent with curatelyreflect the opinions ofthe electorate. There are alot ofgo6d
advantageous. The magazine has a imagery seems to be secondary to
the rigid equipment on which they honest news men and women who let the facts fall from their
very polished, professional look. Kreitzberg's ability to use and in­
rest and with the idealized figures in 'typewriters as they may. They liave no axe to gril).d. They are profes­
The glossy finish is especially ef­dulge Ian guage. 
the backgro~~?· sionally suspicious and inquiring but they are dead honest with their
fective in reproducing photo· This is only an incomplete and reports. There are other less admirable journalists who let theirMelita Schaum's two poems The
graphic clarity, something often insufficient sketch ofa little of opinions choose the facts they use when they're writing about Presi·Dream Hour and Return from the
sacrificed when using unfinished what the Juggler has to offer. The dent Reagan. About half ofthose are consistentlt negative and theDream use imagery as ethereal as
£_aper. epigram on the inside cover reads: othe! halfare consistently positive 'Yith their reports. The public is the dream experience described.
A final change:, or more correct· What shall the world do witli its protected by this diversity ofopinion that pervades bad reporting. 
The imagery of Return from thely a new addition, to theJuggler are children? It is my firm and long-held opinion that the public, in the end, gets Dream concretizes from the cell'sbiographical notes on the con· an almost perfectly accurate picture ofwhat any president is really bright filigree and the soul's san· There are lives the executivestributors. It is a nice idea. It makes like. I don't think that any president has ever been maligned whotana to green apples and a Know nothing. of...

these artistic people more acces­didn't deserve to be maligned. None has ever been revered whofarmhouse gate as the poem 
Certainly, ifthere are artistic lives 


sible · taking them from their didn't deserve reverence. Jimmy Carter's public image in America, progresses, paralleling the 
the university knows nothing of, a

"loftier plane" and setting them after all the negative reporting about him that he hated so much, is dreamer's return from a dream 
remarkable example ofwho they

down in the world ofchemistry generally a good orie. We thought he was a good man, saintly in someworld to the world ofeveryday ex· 
are and what they are capable ofis

and engineering majors. 
respects, but not agreat president. Would anyone argue that ?Wouldperience. 
to be found in the current Fall '81

The current issue oftheJuggler he?
Elizabeth Burlage's Three Kin· Juggler.

is a collection ofphotographs We like President Reagan. We're beginning to think he may beseys far from being merely three 
Juggler's are available in the

Qohn Macor, Edmund Moreno, making some serious mistakes. It doesn't call for a fistfight in the al­descriptions of Doug Kinsey paint­
English department office and the

Michael Mulligan, Eileen O'Meara, ley with reporters.
ings, are vivid, well crafted, and 
Bookstore for 25 cents. 

Richard Stevens), 


Sports Brie/§ 
-· 
ll\· The r)/J.~en•t•r and lbt' Assudated Press 

Nine Notre Datnewrestlersplaced in the top tour 
in their wc:ight class as the Fighting Irish wrestling team took third in the Michiana Autumn Tournamt·nt on Saturday. Phil Batey once again was the highest individual placer as he won the title at 165-lbs. Mark Fisher, wrestling as an unattached entry in an open division, placed second at 126 pounds. Joe Agostino ( 142-lbs. ), John Bag· nasco( 134lbs. ), ami Joe Andrectti ( I 18-lbs.) all finished in third place. Shawn Moloney ( 190-lbs. ), Brian Erard (I 58-lbs. ),Jim Calcag­nini (I 50-lbs. ), and Curt Rood( 142-lbs.) each claimed fourth. Triton won the team title, while Taylor edged Notre Dame for second by 
.fht· margin of one match. -The Observer 
Gregory Keiser has been traded from the Detroit Pis· tons to the Seattle Supersonics for guard Vinnie Johnson. Keiser, a forward, played for the Michigan State Spartans when they won the 1979 NCAA basketball championship. -AP 
The SMC Turkey Trot is scheduled for today at'4 
p.m. The three-mile run is open to everyone in the Saint Mary's com· munity. First, second and third place prizes will be presented in each of these three categories: students, male staff/faculty and female staff/faculty. Interested runners must register by bringing the $1 entry fee to the Angela Athletic Facility before Friday. For.more in· formation, contact Mr. Dillon at 4I82 ( SMC). -The Obseroer 
Big boat sailors with racing experience on medium to large size boats are needed by the Notre Dame Sailing Club. Call Phil Reynolds at 233-3411 for more details-The Obseroer 
The ND-SMC ski teatn wants everyone interested in having a spot on the team this year, to pick up their turtl~necks , from Sean Chandler ( 1001 Flanner, x 1416) before Thanksgiving break to sell for the fundraising. Sweatshirts are now available from Barry Tharp ( I I 04 Flanner xI 570). -The Observer . 
Yugoslavia whipped Luxemburg, 5·0, Saturday _to gain the World Cup soccer finals scheduled to be played in Spain next year. -AP 
Monday, Oc:_tober 23, 1981 page 7 


Friday'a Game 
Notre Dame 6, Ohio State 4 

Ohio State 1 3 0 -4 
Notre Dame 0 5 1 -6 
Scoring 

FIRST PERIOD -1. OSU. Browne, 2, (Cosgrove, 
Collins). 9:32. Penanies-Brown, NO, (h1gh st1ck~ng. 
minor) 1.23. RICCI, NO, (elbowing. minor) 5:22. 
Shendan, OSU. (holding. minor) 10:07. Kobryn, 
OSU, (charging, major) 16:49. Perry, NO. (roughing. 
m1nor) 20:00. Perry. NO, (roughing, m1nor) 20:00. 
Mandich, OSU. (roughing, m1nor) 20:00. Mand1ch, 
OSU. (rough•ng. minor) 20:00. 
SECOND PERIOD -2, NO, BJork, 7, (Regan, 
Brown), 1:18.3, NO, BJOrk. 8. (Rothstein), 1:31.4. 
NO. Brown, 2. (BJOrk. H•gg1ns). 6:32. 5. OSU. Paul 
Pooley, 5, (Marson. Browne). 9:10. 6. OSU, Paul 
Pooley, 6. (Marscn, Browne). 13:10. 7, NO. Schmidt, 
4, (Doman). 15:21 8. OSU. Amoruso. 4, (Browne, 
Macoun), 18:51. 9, ND. Poulin, 3, (Perry, Bowie), 
1:06. Penalties -Mand•ch. OSU. (hooking, minor) 
4:40 Brown, NO. (hooking. minor) 9:00. NO, Schmidt, (elbowing, minor) 12:17. Deasey, NO, (hooking, minor) 14:33. 
THIRD PERIOD -10, NO, logan. 8. (laurion), 
19:51. Penall•es-BJork, NO, (tripping. minor) 1:04. Deasey, NO. (hooking, minor) 4:57. Poulin. NO, (rough•ng, minor) 8:20. Rousseau. OSU. (rough•ng. m1nor) 8:20. Bench. OSU, (too many men) 8:35. Logan, NO, (tripping, minor) 10:12. Schmidt, NO, (slash•ng, minor) 16:15. Mandich, OSU, (slash•ng, minor) 16:15. Brown, NO, (high sticking, minor) 17:24. 
Shots on goal· OhiO State 7 11 11 -29 Notre Dame 14 7 5 -26 
Goaltenders -Ohio State, Damrath, Dougan. Notre Dame. Laur10n. A-1,750 
Saturday' a Game Notre Dame 6, Ohio State 3 Oh1o State 1 -3 Notre Dame 2 4 0 -6 Scoring 
FIRST PERIOD-1, OSU, Browne, 3, (Marson), 
4:44. 2, NO, Rothstein, 6, (Bowie, Schmidt), 9:42. 3, NO, Perry, 10, (Poulin, Brown), 15:32. Penalties­Farley, OSU, (hooking, minor) 1:35. Cox, NO, (hooking, minor) 4:40. Cosgrove, OSU, (holding, m•nor) 7:52. Brown, NO, (roughing, minor) 9:04 Man­dich, OSU, (roughing, minor) 9:04. Macoun, OSU, (elbowing, m1nor) 9:27. BJork. NO, (hooking, m~nor) 
10:45. Luc1a, NO, (high sticking, minor) 13:30. Paul Pooley, OSU, (high sticking, minor) 13:30. Macoun, OSU, (high Slicking, minor) 17:47. Higg1ns, NO, (high stlck•ng, m1nor) 17:47. 
SECOND PERIOD-4, NO, Perry. 10, (Rothstein, Poulin), 1:44. 5, OSU, Marson,· 7, (Mandich, Macoun), 11:12. 6, NO, Luc1a, 1, (Regan, Schmidt), 15:21.7, NO, Chapman, 3, (Bellomy, Higgins), 18:06. 
B. NO, Rothstein, 7, (Perry, Poulin), 19:50. Penalties -Kobryn, OSU , (slashing, minor) :52. Ricci, NO, (roughing~ minor) 3:08. Reilly. NO, (rough•ng, m1nor) 
3:08. Luc1a, NO, (rough~ng; minor) 3:08. Lucia, NO, (high sticking, m1nor) 3:08. Cosgrove, OSU, (rough~ng, minor) 3:08. Amoruso, OSU, (roughing, m1nor) 3:08. Macoun, OSU, (roughing, m1nor) 3:Q8. Macoun, OSU, (h•gh sticking, minor) 3:08. Rousseau. 
OSU, (tripping, m1nor) 3·45. H•ggins, NO. 
(unnecessary roughness, m1nor) 11:07. Mandich. 
OSU. (hooking, m1nor) 19:06. 
THIRD PERIOD-14, OSU. Browne, 3, (Perry 
Pooley, Marson), 12:49. Pena1t1es-Bechtel. OSU. 
(tripping, m1nor) 6·10. Chapman. NO, (high st1ck•ng. 
minor) 12:21. Reilly, NO. (unnecessary roughness, 
minor) 20:00. Malcoun, OSU, (unnecessary rough· 
ness. minor) 20:00. 
Shots on goal: 
Oh1oState 9 14. 14 -37 
Notre Dame 15 7 •• 5 -27 
Goaltenders-Ohio State. Dougan. Notre Dame. _!:aurion. A-2.200 

Saturday' a Game 

Notre Dame  7  7  7  0  21  
Penn State  14  3  0  7  24  
Scoring  

PSU -Jon Williams 4 run (Bnan Franco k1ck) NO-Phil Carter 1 run (Harry Oliver kiCk) PSU-Todd Blackledge 1 run (Franco k1ck) PSU-FG Franco 27 NO-Tony Hunter 17 pass from Blair K1el (Oliver 
kick) NO-John Sweeney 4 pass from K1el (Oliver kick) PSU-Blackledge 1 run (Franco kick) 
NO PSU First downs 13 16 Rush1ng attempts 37 59 Net Yards Rush1ng 108 293 Net Yards Pass•ng 184 66 Passes comp-attempted 14-30 6-14· Had Intercepted 0 0 Total Net Yards 292 359 Fumbles-lost 1-1 2·1 Penalties-yards 4-27 3·25 Punts-average 8-35 8-39 
Individual Laadera 

RUSHING-Notre Dame: Ph1l Carter 20·58: Greg Bell10-30; John Sweeney 4·9: Larry Monart 1·7: Joe Howard 1·5; Blair Kiel1·m•nus 1 , Penn State: Jon Wll· hams 27·192, Tom Barr 12·50, Curt Warner 4·12: Todd Blackled 10·19; Tony Mumford 2-m~nus 1; Frank Rocco 1-minus 1; Kenny Jackson 1·7: 
PASSING -Notre Dame: 8la11 K1el 13-28·1, 183; Greg Bell1·1·0. 1; Joe Howard 0·1·0,0; Penn State: Todd Blackrid 6·13·1, 66; Tom Barr 0·1·0.0; 
RECEIVING-Notre Dame: Joe Howard 4-102; Tony Hunter 4-36: John Sweeney 3·28; Greg Bell 2· 17; Blair K1e11-1; Penn State: Gregg Garrrty 2·42; Jon Williams 2-27; Kenny Jackscn 1-m1nus 1; Tom Barr 1-minus 2; 
Attendance-84.175 
Sunday'a Gamea Cincinnati 38. Denver 21 Detroit 23, Chicago 7 Tampa Bay 37, Green Bay 3 Buffalo 20. New England 17 New Orleans 27, Houston 24 New York Giants 20. Philadelphia 10 Pittsburgh 32, Cleveland 1 0 Kansas City 40, Seattle 13 St. Louis 35, Baltimore 24 San Diego 55. Oakland 21 New York Jets 16. Miam•15 
'San Frahcisco 33, Los Angeles 31 Dallas 24. Washington 10 Monday'a G•me Minnesota at Atlanta 
Friday'a Game Yugoalavla 81, Notre Dame 78 

RED STAR (81)-MIIIVSjSa 0 0·0 0, KovaceVIC 4 0·0 8. M1lek•c 0 0-0 0, Radovic 1 4-6 6, Karadz1c 5 1·5 11, Nikolic 8 2·3 18, Jokanov•c 1 0·0 2, Jankovic 1 2·3 4, Bogoslavjev 9 1-5 21. Salaj 5 1·1 11. 
IRISH (76) -Varner 7 3·3 17. Sluby 7 0·1 14, Spencer 0 1·2 1, Mitchell 0 0·0 o. Paxson 7 15·16 29, Duff 0 1·2 1, Rowan 2 0·0 4, Rucker 4 2-2 10. 
FOULED OUT -Nikolic, Bogoslavjev, Mitchell, Duff. TOTAL FOULS-Yugoslavia 23, Notre Dame 24. A-11,345 
Bowl pairings 
RoaaBowl January 1 Iowa vs Wash•ngton Orange Bowl January 1 Clemson vs. Nebraska Sugar Bowl January 1 Pittsburgh vs Georg•a Cotton Bowl January 1 
Texas vs. Alabama Holiday Bowl December18 
Wash~ngton State vs. Bngham Young Bluebonnet Bowl December31 M1ch1gan vs UCLA Tangerine Bowl December 211 Southern MISSISSIPP• Gator Bowl December28 
Arkansas vs. North Carolina Uberty Bowl Oacember30 
OhiO State vs. Navy FleataBowl January 1 Penn State vs. Southern Cat 
Independence Bowl December12 Oklahoma State vs. Texas A & M Garden Stat• Bowl Oacember13 Wisconsin vs. Tennessee Peach Bowl Oacember31 West Virgima va. FloridtoFia State HaU o1 Fame Bowl Oacember31 MisSISSIPPI State vs. TBA California Bowl Oacember 12 Toledo vs. San Jose State BI-<Jray Clualc December12 North vs. South All-Stars Shrine Game J•nuary8 
East vs. West All-Stars Hula Bowl January& 
East vs. West All-Stars Japan Bowl January18 
All Stars 

" ­

The ObsBrver will accept class1fieds Mon­day through Fnday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m However, classifieds to appear 1n the next tssue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to insertton All classtfieds must be prepatd. 
either in person or through the mail. 
Classifieds 


COSMO GET A LIFEIIII On Thanksgiving Day, Darby's Place COMING SOON 
NOTICES presents MY FAIR LADY in the basement JUSt when you thought rt was sate to go of Lafortune Student Center. Times are back home for 
•• ~•.•Joo. 
11 :00 AM and 8:00 PM. AdmiSSIOn and ThanksgiVIng vacahon .. USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED. UGLY DUCKLING RENT A CAR FROM For sale· 73 red VW Beetle, excellent con­
THE ZAHM COFFEEHOUSE IS OPEN 
snacks are FREEIll TURKEY BOWL 5 SAT. SUN 9·7. CASPERSON, 1303 $7.95 A DAY & WEEKEND SPECIALS dillon, 1 owner 60,000 miles. new t11es, 
EVERY THURSDAY FOR YOUR EXIS­
TENTIAL PLEASURE. OFFERING THE 
BUCHANAN RD .. NILES AVAILABLE. CALL 259·8459. call 234-0620 after 5:30PM TO ROME WITH LOVE a~n·t nothin' FOWL about FINEST IN LIVE ENTERTAINMENT, 
HELLO THERE R.A.N. THE TURKEY BOWL COFFEE, TEA,' HOMEMADE DONUTS, M,M,M,S.T.E.etc

Have 3 basketball hcket packages tor FREE POPCORN AND PAT GALLAG· 

HAVE YOU HUGGED YOUR PERUVIAN 

sale. Lower arena. Best otoffer. Sell 1n· HER. COME DOWN AND SEE IF OUR 
Expenenced typist·· reasonable OSCILLATING ATTACK BOULDER
dividually or together. Call Mike or Ted at PROFESSIONAL CONVER­
Mrs. Bedford TODAY???
1181. SATIONALISTS ARE PAID ENOUGH.

___.J
LOST /FOUND I ._!............ .....~------~-...~--~­
'!!-.....~-... 
288·2107

9-12 EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT, ZAHM Need ride to Cleveland tor Thanksgiving. 
Hours BAM to SPM CONGRATULATIONS TO DR.-TO-BE Lost. back pack, tan and blue. Made by GRETCHEN LORIGI MED. SCHOOL
BASEMENT. Call John at 8450

WyEast.lnc. cllll V1nce x1238 
CHRISTIAN LIFE COMMUNITIES or­WILL NEVER BE THE SAME. ARE YOUCherie, Ca fait deJa 'un an. et 1e t'aime plus 
gamzatlonal meet~ng, Monday. Novem­PSYCHED FOR THE CADAVER? (AT Loat: back pack, tan and blue. Made by I need a ride lor two to ChiCago on TICKETS que Jama•s: et 1e n·a, pas change d'av•sl Et 
Thursday, Nov. 26 (Turkey day). Will ber 23. Little Theater. at 7 pm. All are LEAST YOU CAN LEAVE THE OVER· WyE8llt.lnc call V1nce x1238 

toi?SB 
share the usual. II you can help me out, invrted to attend. If unable to come. call SEXED FLIES BEHINDIII) 
Penn St. ticket wanted please call Donna 7870 tor further information. 
LOST: 1981 DESMET JESUIT HIGH ,.caiiTomat877l. at.6771 SHOW . YOUR LADY YOU CARE iYP.i.a· ooNe oi. .. cAiii>us···av 
BEFORE THE CHRISTMAS BREAK
CLASS RING. GOLD WITH INITIALS .RIDERS NEEDED TO''BCiSTON'' FOR SCA IS COMING I PROFESSIONAL SECRETARY. LOW
Two GA basketball tickets tor sale. Call WITH A MONTH OF FLOWERS. A BOU· 
JMD. IF FOUND PLEASE CONTACT RATES, QUICK SERVICE. CALL X·
JOHN AT 8291. OCTOBER BREAK. CALL GERARD OR 41·4872. OUET OF FLOWERS EVERY WEONES· 
CHUCK, 118112. SCA IS COMING I 1315.
DAY FOR 4 WEEKS. DELIVEREDIII FOUND. RING, 1nrtials MMW, at Semor 
tor sale: 2 GA miami tiws call2948 WEDNESDAYS FLOWERS 289·1211. Need ride to Buffalo fbr Thanksgiving. SCAISCOMINGI Suzanne. HAOLI LAHANAUI 18· finallylBar, 130ct;ca11Betsy277·6082. 
Wrth love & aloha, Lyndy P.S. I hope you Call Kevin at 3575 

FOR SALE:2 Miam1·ND Tiw.C11EAP.Call PART oFi i='uLL TIME woRK FROM 
What can this one-armed bandit" say were supnaedl
Bud x1502 HOME, PROCESSING MAIL OR NEED RIDERS TO IDAHO-XMAS
FOUND: 1 blue & white HOHNER about a bunch of crazed Individuals who TYPING. EXPERIENCE UNNECES·
KAZOO. If you want rt back. ccugh up one BREAK. 1·WAY. CALL 272·5239. 11se above the masses? I thank you all like ye~ i~U.~. w~ ,,,;,~ i~ ;;;~ ·~P ih;;·;;~~i·~~i~ buck tor you know what to you know who. SARY. EXCELLENT INCOME POTEN· age1n.. 
4 MIAMI G A'S-·BOXES BEHIND NO a Banshee for gett1ng me th<u thiS yearly
' BENCH. CALL MARK 3403 TIAL. INFORMATION, SEND 
RIDERS NEEDED TO DOWNTOWN ordeal. My parents know me as "Hey
FOUND: 1 blue and gold HOHNER STAMPED. SELF-ADDRESSED EN· 
CHICAGO, DROPOFF AT UNION STA­You" but my friends call me JUNK LEONARD VERCELLOTTI IS LEAVING 
KAZOO. If you want it back, cough up one Need UCLA GA's Call John 1809 VELOPE. P.O. BOX 44585-ND. LOS SOON--OH NO--HOW WILL THE OB­
TION. LEAVING WEDNESDAY NOON. 

OLIVOS STA .. PHOENIX, AZ 85064. 
buck tor you know what to you know who. 
CALL PAUL 11508. Take the long way home .. SERVER SURVIVE??
TICKETS FOR THE ROLLING STONES/SANTANA/IGGY POP CON· PAT GALLAGHER .... EVEA WONDER 
Peep. Why not? 
Need ride to St. Louis and back tor T·day. CERT DEC. 1 AT PONTIAC SIL·
REWARD FOR RETURN OF PEARL· IF FRANCIS COPPOLA EVER.WROTE DIAMOND RING LOST NOV 13 BE· A PAPER ON "NATTY'" HAWTHoRNE. 
Will share expenses and driving. Call Lou VERDOME ARE NOW ON SALE AT J.J.D.: Only 3 more days of be1ng 171 The 
TWEEN HOWARD AND FARLEY. at 1428. Thank you. RIVER CITY RECORDS, 50970 U.S. 31 WHY DON'T YOU JUST GO TO LAW Peep Heap. 
17 JOkes were GREAT while they lasted.

N. SOME SPACES ARE STILL
PLEASE CALL KATIE x6723 SCHOOL UKE EVERYBODY ELSE. 
right? Have w1ld times In NY--wheraRIDE NEEDED FOR 2 TO THE AVAILABLE ON THE SIXTH BUS FOR. 

EVERYONE KNOWS THAT THERE'S DON'T PANIC you're legal. Have a STUPENDOUS B·DETROIT /FERNDALE AREA OVER 'THE CHARTER BUS PACKAGE TO THE NO LIFE AFTER FILM SCHOOLIII SIN­dayll JK&SP 8/26/81 
THANKSGIVING BREAK. WILL SHARE ROLLING STONES CONCERT. USUAL PLUS SUPPLY THE COOKIESIII PACKAGE INCLUDES ROUND-TRIP 
WINDSURFER. FLY ITIII CERELY ... PAUUNE KAEL. . 
Cheryl, Eiosro;:..· ;,;;··N~~d s~~~;~i ·;i;;~;;·;~r
PLEASE CALL 8031 BUS TRANSPORTATION FROM RIVER .,.... 
How was your weekend? Were 5 guys Thanksg1v1ng break. Leav1ng Tuesday

I found a camera Wednesday near the CITY TO PONTIAC. REFRESHMENTS WHO IS GERADO VELEZ AND WHY IS enough for you? 
(That's tomorrow I) Call Dan 1153

Need 11dt> to NORTHERN VIRGINIA tor ON BUS AND TICKET TO CONCERT.
ACC If you think rt IS yours, call Dave HE SAYING AU THESE TERRIBLE 
Much Funl ( 1927) and g1ve your 1n1hals. FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL277· THINGS ABOUT ME. 
ThanksgiVIng. Can leave Tuesday after· noon. Will share the usuals. Please call 4242. 
An Attestment to the World: 
BARBARA J. COSGROVE is a highly in· telligent, smart person I 

Jim at 1763 THE PINGA COMES OF AGEl 
TONY WALTON... CAN JAMES LOVE AND KISSES culator about a week ago maybe 1n the Desperately need 11de to Rochester N.Y ' WRIGHT PLAY PIANO? CAN TAL FAR· THE SPACE ACADEMY LOST: A 53-C Tewas Instrument Cal· M.J.C. 
Cell BIOlogy Class. If found. please call tor Thanksgiving. Will share driving and LOW WRITE POETRY? WAS MONK AND CARLl The Restless Shade ol Moose Control is

6737 or return to 1-43 Farley Hall. expenses. Call Steve 8265 EVER EDITOR OF THE COLLEGE d.
PERSONALS near . . I can hear the footsteps 
NEWSPAPER? THE HALLOWED KNOCK KNOCK 
Help-My daughter's pregnant. my wife HALLS OF MICHIGAN ARE CALLING who's there? ......................................................... LOST LADIES' BROWN DEARSKIN has VD, and my 19th birthday is the 271h. YOU. WILL YOU ANSWER? WILL YOU IHADA 0: Who repor1s news in the Yukon? GLOVES WITH RABBIT FUR LINING-­Must get home for Thanksgiv•ng to ......"SIMON".. PUT THE IVY LEAGUE ON HOLD? WILL ihadawho? A: The moose media, of course . OLD AND MENDED--NO QUESTIONS Philadelphia area. Can leave anyt1me the touching atory of a Father and his YOU TAKE ME WITH YOU? I HAD A GREAT TIME SATURDAY HI, Shirley. Y1ppeel 

WILL BE ASKED-·288-9322 Wednesday and will share expenses. Call mouae... SINCERELY, GERADO VELEZ. LINDA Ill THANKS AGAIN! MIKE The Restless Shade of Moose Control 1427. 
.­


I 
.I 
I 
I 
The Observer -Sports Monday, October 23, 1981 -page 8 
continuedfrom page 12 
to the Yugoslavians as the Irish played catch up ball in the waning moments. Layups bv Predrag Bogos· lavjev and Branko Kovacevic and a pair of free throws by Slobodan Nikolic gave the Red Star tea~ an in­surmountable 76-6 7 lead with only 
1:22 remaining in the contest. 
Twenty turnovers, twelve in the second half, marked the demise of the Irish fortunes. Freshman Dan Duff was ineffective as a replace­ment for Mitchell, turning the ball over five times in his briefstint. 
"Dan just has to learn that you can't make a twenty-five foot entry pass. This game' was a learning ex­perience. It's just a matter now ofsit­ting down with thtc team, looking at the tape of the game and analyzing the individual performances," added Phelps: 
The major weakness appeared to· be the lack ofa conceptualized team \lefense. Several times the Yugos­lavians beat their men to the basket and the Irish had little or no weak si<': help. When there was help, it tended to be in the form of a shot blocking effort insteac of defensive positioning. 
"I'm not sure how we are going to rebound against the bigger teams," said Phelps. "We've been working on rebounding and we've got to come up with a defense. You've got to understand that this is a sophomore-junior oriented team and there's a lot ofgrowing up to do and injuries to overcome. But we'll figure it out. Just get ready for a dif­ferent style of play from last year. Our seven-footer this year will be our home crowd." 
Early season injuries are depleting an already sparse Irish roster. Twenty seconds into the game, Sluby crashed into the folding chairs in the band area cutting and bruising his left shqulder. Howevel', Sluby returned moments later after icing the bruise and played effectively hit­ting seven of his ten field goal at­tempts. 
Varner suffered a dislocated toe during.the frantic final moments and will remain sidelined for seven to ten days. Notre Dame's only authen­tic center, Tim Andree, is recovering 

• • • Yugoslavians 
Purdue names Burtnett head football coach 
from an ankle injury slightly ahead of schedule and is expected to practice Thursday. 
Irish Items -Free throw shoot­ing was a bright spot for the Irish connecting on nearly 85/, most of which was contributed by Paxson ... Slick shooting Slobodan Nikolic came off the bench and scored 18 points including 8 of 9 from the field...Another non-starter, Predrag Bogoslavjev led the Red Star team with 21 points...The Yugoslavians seem to shoot better with defensive pressure hitting only 56/ of their free throws. 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) ­Leon Burtnett, 38, defensive coor­dinator at Purdue University for the past five years, was named head foot­ball coach yesterday, replacing Jim Young. 
Young, who announced his retire­ment as coach last week, will become fulltime associate athletic director. 
· Burtnett qme to Purdue in 1977 after a year as assistant coach at Michigan State. He previously was . an assistant at San Jose. State, Wyoming, Washington State, Mon­tana State and Colorado State. 
Announcement of Burtnett's ap­.pointment was made yesterday at a news conference in Mackey Arena. Burtnett said all coaches on the Purdue staffwould be retained. "We're a close family. The exact duties of each coach could change, 
but I've asked them all to stay on," 
Burtnett said. 
He said the Boilermakers of the future would be "very, very pro oriented." 
The new Purdue coach said he prefers an oftense that includes pas­sing 60 percent of the time, con­trasted with Young's preferred ratio oftwo runs to every pass. 
Burtnett listed his No. I priority as retaining the players' currently on the campus. Recruiting was his second priority. 
"I feel I'm very strong in this area (recruith1g). It's still an exciting thing for me to go into the home ofa (high school) senior and try to inter­est him in coming to our school." 
Improving the defensive secon­dary is an immediate goal of Leon Burtnett, who was named Purdue University's 30th football coach at a Sunday new.s conference. 


CecilRuckerleaps high into the airattempting to blocka shotby the Yugoslavians. Rucker also scored 10 points in the contes~ but all to no avail, as the Belgrade Red Star squad defeated the Irish, 81-76. Injuries to Irish regulars Tom Sluby and Bill Varner didn't helpNotre Dame's cause. (photo by Linda Shanahan) 
• • • Gridders 


deflection)." 
The Irish threatened to widen their lead when they moved to PSU's four-yard line with about I 0 minutes left in the game. On fourth and inches, tailback Greg Bell tried to leap the pile-up, but was denied the gain. 
"It was a great call," Paterno stated. "It's just one of those things. You make it or you don't." 
Faust said a field goal at that point was out of the question. "We're not out there to tie, we're out there to win. A field goal would've just set it up for a tie, and they'd have probably gone for two anyway. With a half yard to go, you'vegot to go out there for the win." 
"On the goal line stand, we just knew we had to get down on them, fire out, and stop them right there," said Penn State defensive end Rich D'Amico. "We didn't want another blowout like we had against Alabama. We wanted the seniqrs to go out with their heads up and with a victory." 
/ 
Though victory escaped the Irish for the fifth time this year, it was a game they could walk away from with their heads up, too. 
"Notre Dame is a very fine football team," praised Paterno. "They're su­perior defensively and they execute very well. It's one of those games where you hate to see a team lose." 
"We wanted to beat Penn State to show people our last three wins weren't flukes," Sweeney said. "But I think we gained some respectability today." 
"It was a heck of a game for the spectators and a heartbreaker for the coaches," added Faust. "I can't fault our kids. I'd just like to be on the other side once in a while." 

Just $79 will put you on the road for five full days with unlimited mileage in a 
and deflected it, but I was able to 

contin.ued from page 12 
keep an eye on the ball and catch it." in tne third period led to fUllback "Right before the play started, I John Sweeney's 4-yard touchdown knew the ball was coming my way grab, his first at Notre Dame. and I said a little prayer: 'Lord, let me 
"When it happened, I couldn't do well.' I swear, if we ran that play believe it," said the jubilant junior. I00 more times, I probablywouldn't "The defender was in front of me have made the catch (with the 
rc:­
CILA 
• Christmas Cards 5 for $1.00 


manual-transmissionsubcompactcar.lfyouare 18orolder,havea student I.D. card 
and a valid driver's license, that's all you need. Tell us what size car you would like, and we'll have it ready for you starting November 20. 
Rates are not discountable. Gasoline, applicable taxes, optional Collision Damage Waiver and Personal Accident insurance are not included. No charge for mileage. All cars subject to availability. Cars must be returned to the renting location no later than November 30, 1981 or higher published Hertz Daily Standard Unlimited Mileage Rates will apply to the entire rental period, and a drop charge will alsoapply. Ask for complete details. 

#1 RrEver)me. 

l.arg~r cars available at higher rates. HERTZ RENTS FORDS AND OTHER FINE CARS 

On Sale , Next W~ek Only • Nov. 30-Dec. 3 ~ Library 6:00-9:00 
Christmas 

Dining Halls 5:00-6:30 
is Here!

LaFortune 12:15-1:15 



The Observer·-Sports Monday, October 23, 1981 -page 9 
Ferguson runninghis -way back 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Associate Sports Editor 
ORCHARD PARK, NY -It's been a frustrating year for Vagas Ferguson. · just a year ago, hews a mainstay in 
the New England Patriots' starting lineup. Sam Cunningham was sitting tht· sca~on out in a comract dispute. Andy Johnson was out for the year with an injury. Chuck Foreman was but a shadow of what he'd been during his glory years at Minnesota. 
"Vagas was the guy we went to when we needed three or four sure · 
yards," says one club official. "He wa~ what football fans in New England call a 'bread-and-butter guy.' When we had to have the yards, 
Ferguson would get them." 
As th.e 1981-82 season opened, 
however, Ferguson was on the 
bench. An ankle injury suffered in 
one oflhe Patriots' preseason games 
was the culprit. 
At first. 
The new culprit is Tony Collins, a 
rookie our of East Carolina He took over the job as the Patriots starting running back when Ferguson was._ 
hurt, and wouldn't let go. His 751 
yards rushing leads the team and 
he's one of the few bright spots in 
Foxboro during this 2-10 season. Sunday's game here against the Ruft"alo Bills was typical of New England's misfortunes this year. 
Brent Chapman and an unidentified Ohio swept the physi(:al weekend series against the State player vie for a loose puck. Notre Dame Buckeyes. (photo by Linda Shanahan) 
Shanghai Restaurant in Roseland MonRoiian Barbeque Szechuan and Mandarin style dinners Sunday 4pm to 9pm 
M on-Thurs 11: 30am to 9:30pm Fri-Sat 11:30am to 10:30pm CARRY OUT SERVICE Luncheon Buffet Ali you can eat 
S3.75 
I 1:30am to 2: 

·r 
In University Commons 
(near the new Kroger Store) 
272-7565 
Mon.-Sal 10·9 St1n. 12-5:30 
~iso & MasterCard Welcome 
Joe Ferguson hit Roland Hooks with a desparation pass to the endzone, and Bufta.to shocked New. 
England 20-1 7. The Bills went 73 yards on two plays to pull out the victory. Overshadowed by the shocking -loss and by the 2-10 record -at least for Ferguson , -was the fact that he may have won his job back. "It's no con~olation," he insists. "It's not like I'm back in the lineup for good. Tony just had a had game." That's putting it diplomatically. On the Patriots' second posses­. sion, Collins fumbl_ed on the first play from scrimmage. The next time he carried the ball, Collins fumbled again, and never returned to the lineup. "Everybody's entitled to a bad game," says Ferguson, who came off the bench to lead New England in rushing. "I've had a few myself. Those things happen sometimes. The less said about them, the bet­ter." Perhaps it's the frustration, but Ferguson can't help talking about them. "I'm trying," he says. "I go out there every day and I do my best. Ap­parently, it isn't enough." Patriot officials insist that the ankle injury has prevented Fer­guson's return, but he doesn't buy that excuse. "I've been feeling good for two months," he says. "Sure, it's tough not playing, but what can you do? Tony's having a great season. That's just the way it goes. I can't do much more about it; I just work hard, and take things one step at a time." While there was very little "for Notre Dame fans to cheer about last weekend, there was cause to take heart. All is not lost. Vagas Ferguson is on the way back. 


GRAND OPENING SPECIALS! 
---FREE--,­Gift To 
,--FREE­Merchandise Drawing EveryoneI No Purchase Necessary! 
~10% OFF­

-15% OFF­
Specials
On All Shoes 

All Tennis & 
Good Now
And Clothing 

Racquetball Equip. 
thru Dec. 6 

Featuring: Niki! Adidas Bill Rodgers Saucony Puma New Balance 

-

Penn State's Todd Blackledge scrambles for a stay, 24-21. (photo byjohn Macor) touchdown that put the Nittany Lions ahead to 
Dillon wins 
futerhall championship decided 
By WILL HARE 
Sports Writer 
The Big Red from Dillon Hall 
r:l!!ied for two fourth quarter touch­downs to captured the interhall ·football championship yesterday, by defeating the Off-Campus Raiders, 
14-0, at frozen Cartier Field. 
The game was scoreless for three· quarters and resembled an old NFL championship game played at Lam­beau Field in Green Bay or Soldier Field in Chicago. The sub-freezing temperatures and icy ground shut down both teams' offensive attacks most of the day. Although Ott­Campus maintained ball control in the first half, neither team threatened until the fourth quarter. 
The play that perhaps turned around the game for Dillon was a 42­yard fica flicker from Yogi Spence to Bob Wicke. _The bomb went to the Off-Campus l9-yard line, and three plays later, it pass from Kevin Kenny. Hart Green's point-after made it 7-0 Dillon, with about six minutes left in 
the game. 
"It was the first time. we used the (flea-flicker) play," Spence noted. "We designed it just this week." 
Dillon's furthest penetration prior to the flea-flicker was to the Off­Campus 45-yard line. In all, the drive went 61 yards in just four plays. 
On the play following the touch­down, Raider quarterback Matt Huf­fman was intercepted by freshman Brian Broucek. Huffman thought that play was the key to the game. "I thought we had a pretty good chance to drive in the fourth quar­ter," Huffman said. "But I threw that interception and that just caused a letdown for our defense." 
Following the interception, Big 
Red tailback Dave McMahon spear­
headed the drive for the final tally. 
McMahon's carries in the five-play, 
53-yard attack included a 21-yard 
run and a four-yard burst off tackle 
for the second Dillon to"uchdown 
with I:30 remaining. The frustration 
of the Off-Campus defense was fur­
ther exemplified by a costly 
South s newest & finest in cuisine. 
Dine among the antiques, and enjoy our view · -+r#J.......~ of the new downtown! 
KP<-rv,.thln•"'" Appreciated 
234-9000 
121 South Niles South Bend 
facemasking ·penalty in the drive which only added to the Dillon fire. 
Off-Cainpus desperately tried one more time on offense but Dillon's middle linebacker Mike McGuirt! picked off another errant Huffman pass to sew up the contest. McGuire, along with defensive ends Joe Boyle and Larry Andreini, were the key figures in the Dillon shutout. 
With the victory, Dillon com­pleted a perfect 6-0 season. As Big Red Coach Marty Finan said after the game, "They worked hard all year. We all felt we worked too hard all season to let a big play beat us in the 
second  half  All  season long  our  
defense  bent  a  little  but  didn't  
break."  

Dillon again showed the strong defense it did all season. On the year, Dillon allowed just eight points. "Our defense allowed us to stick with them," Finan noted. "They (Off-Campus) had just two good plays in the first half. Mike McGuire was the leader for us." 
Leading rushers in the game were McMahon, who gained 51 yards on 13 carries and the Raiders' Willie Sotis, who ran the ball 14 times for 45 yards. Reserve tailback Mike Dan­durand was another key .off of the Dillon bench, a~ he carried the ball six times for 27 yards. Bob Wicke, who has been a standout for Dillon all season long, finished with four receptions for 62 yards. 


The Observer -Sports Monday, October 23, 1981 -page 10 
Alumni pressure 

-
·~ 
• 

Dillon defeated Off-Campus, 14-0, yesterday in the men's inter­hall footba·ll championship. See story on page 9. (photo by Linda Shanahan) 
EVERYTHING 
YOU 
HEAR 
IS 
TRUE. 
··Iam truly amazed with the total clarity and lifelikeness that is coming from these records. I would almost swear that Boz Scaggs and Michael Jackson were standing next to me doing their songs in · person.·· 
.. This record is one ofthe best recordings I have ever heard. I found the tonal balance and musicality t.o compare equally with any ofmy recordings from Sheffield Lab or Mobil Fidelity 

• 
Big ones give Paterno trouble 
By CHRIS NEEDLES 
Sports Writer 

UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa.-It was a Penn State first down at its own 21, late in the third quarter. Lion tail­back Tony Mumford took the hand­off, but was stood up for no gain by Notre Dame's Bob Crable and Tim Marshall. 
The boos rained (or, more ap­propriately, snowed) down on Penn State coach Joe Paterno. Here he was, trailing the Irish, 21-1 7, after charging out to a qui.ck 17-7 ad­vantage in the first half. His offense had been stymied on its last six pos­sessions with only one first down, and Paterno was stubbornly sticking to his ball-control game plan. Maybe the cold finally was getting to him. 
But Paterno ignored the 84, 1 75 armchair quarterbacks in Beaver Stadium on Saturday. Being an op­timist, he no doubt thought they were booing the latest brutal gust of wind, or that everybody in the crowd was from Philadelphia and it was just a primal instinct for them to boo. 
Finally, Paterno's patience paid off, thanks to the marvelous running ofsophomore tailback jonathan Wil­liams. After two key defensive plays -a goal line stand and an intercep­tion -stopped Irish scoring drives that would have put the game away, Williams, who gained 192 yards on the day replacing the injured Curt Warner, ran for 46 yards on four carries to pace the Lions' winning 82-yard touchdown drive in the 
fourth quarter. Penn State went on to beat the Irish, 24-21, and Paterno had his vindication. 
Joe Paterno has been well revered in his 16 seasons at Penn State. Satur­day's win places him one short ofthe 150-victory mark for his career. But, in all those years of prosperity and bowl bids, he has one rap against him -he can't win the big game. 
The examples are numerous: the 1979 Sugar Bowl ( 14-7 loss to 
Alabama for the national champion­
ship); the 1976 Gator Bowl ( 20-9 
loss to the Irish); last year's 14-9loss 
to Pitt; and, most recently, this.. 
season's losses to Miami (Fla.) and 
Alabama. The alumni and other 
natives were getting restless. Many 
fans even displayed ".Joe Must Go" 
signs on Saturday. 

But, at least for this week, those rumblings will subside. "It was a great football game," said Paterno af. ter the game. "Notre Dame is a very fine football team. But it was gooq for us to come from behind in the closing minutes with the pressure on. 
"We've played so many good foot­
ball teams lately. It was a great win 
for Penn State. It feels good to come 
back." 

But, by no means is Paterno out of the woods yet. In between the first and last touchdown drives, the Lions offense was sloppy. The most telling series of downs was on Penn State's second touchdown, when it took the Lions·seven plays"to go the final three yards, with quarterback Todd Blackledge inching in for tbe score. 
And it won't get much easier. Pitt, the nation's No. 1 team by default, plays host to Penn State this Saturday in Three Rivers Stadium. "I haven't even had a chance to think about Pitt:" Paterno admitted. "They ob­viously have a great football team and it should be a great game." 
However, even with a win against the Panthers, there is still the Fiesta Bowl on New Year's Day against USC. Maybe, just maybe, a three­game wining streak to finish the season finally would knock that overweight monkey off Paterno's back. 
On Saturday. though, Paterno was content with beating the Irish, al­though Notre Dame is only a 5-5 team and played like one quite often against the Lions. "I'm especially pleased for our senior-s," he said. "They've worked too hard. I didn't want them to leave this place (Beaver. Stadium) wtth two straight losses." 
Neither did Joe Paterno. One got the impression that ifhe had, he may never have come back. 
• • • leers 
continuedfrom page 12 

that reserve strength. You go out on 
the ice for thirty seconds, going 
hard, and you have to take a rest. So 
the fourth line becomes a very key 
part ofany success." 

The pair of Irish victories gives them a 2-3 mark for confrence games this season, compared to their 2-14-1 mark for the past two years. 
This weekend the Irish will host 
Ferris State at the ACC. 

IRISH ITEMS-Dave Lucia's win­
ning goal last Saturday was his first of 
the season...Attendence for the two 
games was 3,950...Andy Browne, a 
right winger for Ohio State scored 
three goals and had three assists of 
the Buckeyes seven goals this 
weekend... ND's Bill Rothstein had 
two goals and two assists...Kirt Bjork 
had two goals and an assist, all in 
Friday's game...This weekend 
marked the return of senior defen­
seman John Cox and winger Dan 
Collard. 

~u••n,.....-.....a•n••••••n•••-~ 
Rocco'sHair Styling~ 
531 N. Michigan St.J 
South Bend 
Phone-233-4957 
I iff

i L = .......................................................J., 


-~~---~-------~---------------------------­
~~======~======~~~--~~~----~ 
1 _I 'o 

Molarity 
CUUCK.~ HOH£ 
FoP> lli#J.'{S{,IIIt!lq ,.. WllAT3 
., 

Shoe 

SE'CURiiY Afi'R£"5T£C> DION R>R PDPCof'tN ANP 7UEY TRACEOP i!lf> SCVRC£ 
&.cKTo 1-1£ .., NoLJ -rn~'R£ 




The Daily Crossword 
© 1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 11/23/81 All Rights Reserved 
ACROSS 31 Store grain 1 Tennis 35 "Remember 
great the-!" 5 Soft masses 36 Joe 9 Unite 38 "-the 
13 To shelter season..." 14 Astrodome, 39 Town near 
e.g. Omaha Beach 16 Until 40 Hubbubs 17 Cordelia's 41 History 
father 42-the mark 18 Caruso, 43 Lovers' 
for one meeting 19-majeste 44 Silk 20 Nitwits netting 22 Sultry 45 Safeguard 24 Cranny's 47 Salad 
P.artner contents 26 Rebecca's 49 Learning son method 27 Kinder­51 Department gartner in France 
Friday's Solution 

Monday, octob~r2~, 1981-page u 
Campus 
•1 2: 15 p.m. Development Workshop, "Production Conditions in Guatemala's Key Agricultural Product: Corn" Joe Phillips, Kenneth Jameson, Larry Marsh, NO department of 
Economics, Memorial Library Lounge, Sponsored by Economics Department, All are welcome 
•4 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Economy and the Elec­tions of 1980 and 1982", Edward R. Tufte, Yale Uni­versity, 122 Hayes Healy, Sponsored by Economics Department, All are welcome 

•5:00 
p.m. -Ireland Program Meeting, 232 Moreau Hall, Saint Mary's College, Attendence Re­quired at this or 6:30 meeting 

•6:30 
p.m. -Ireland Program Meeting, 232 Moreau Hall, Saint Mary's College, Attendance Re­quired at this or 5:00 meeting 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, "Cries and Whispers", Annen­berg Auditorium, S 1 admission 

•7:30 
p.m. Lecture, "Small Christian Communities and Liberation", Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C., Carroll Hall, Sponsored by Justice Educa­tion Committee, All are welcome 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Reaganomics Beyond '81", Mark Green, Author and Washington Lobbyist, Hayes Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by United Steelworkers of America and Department of Economics, All are welcome 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Northern Ireland: Past, Present and Future", Rev. Joseph McVeigh, parish priest from Northern Ireland, Memorial Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Center for Pastoral and Social Living, All are welcome 


Television 
7:00p.m. 

52 Newport 21 Something events forbidden 56 Thingamajig 23 Criticizes 
7:30p.m.

60 Image 25 Grace, 61 Chemical before 
compound Ranier 63 Cunning 27 Part of 64-En-lai 30D 8:00p.m. 65 "Superman" 28 John of 66 Archibald song 
of basket-29 Storms ball 30 Cook a 67 Bricklaying turkey 8:30p.m. adjuncts 32 Balbo the 68 Stepped aviator 
9:00p.m. 

on It 33 Strong 69 Pung thread 34 Kefauver DOWN 37 Sinclair 
9:30p.m.

1 Comfort 40 Worry wart 
!O:OOp.m.

2 Butterine 41 Humiliating 3 Guardor remarks admiral 43 Hurry 4 Apache 44 Edible root chief 46 Father of 
!0:30p.m.

5 Holmes's the Titans sidekick 48 Arthur's ll:OOp.m. 6 "You-my nephew sunshine" 50 Alleviates 7 Parking lot 52 Affluent mishap 53 Reverberate 11:30p.m. 8 Make night 54 Friday music or Hope 9 Caesar 55 Phase 12:00a.m. 10 Arabian 57 Telephone 
acronym 58 Der-12:30a.m. 11 Words with (Adenauer) boy or girl 59 Colored 12 Coward 62 Holiday 15 "-a rose" time 
Tonight 
16 MASH 
22 CBS News 
28 Joker's Wild 
34 The MacNeiVLehrer Report 
46 Believer's Voice ofVictory 
16 Allin the Family 
22 Family Feud 
28 Tic Tac Dough 
34 Straight Talk 
16 Uttle House on the Prairie 
22 A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving 
28 That's Incredible 
34 Great Performances 
46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 
22 No Man's Valley 
46 Blackwood Brothers 
16 NBC Movie: "Fire on the Mountain" 
22 MASH 
28 NFL Football: Minnesota at Atlanta 
46 Today with Lester Sumrall 
22 House Calls 
16  "Loretta  Lynn,  The  Lady...The  
Legend"  
22  Lou Grant  

34 Beginning Again 
46 Jimmy Swaggart 
34 Rural America: Coming of Age 
16 Newscenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
34 The Dick Cavett Show 
46 Praise The Lord 
16 Tonight Show 
22 Quin,:y!Harry 0 
34 Captioned ABC News 
28 Newswatch 28 
46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 
16 Tomorrow Coast To Coast 
28 ABC News Nightline 
46 Blackwood Brothers 
• 
• 


... 

By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. -The Irish will go to a bowl this season, confirmed Coach Gerry Faust. "We'll be in the Orange bowl next Friday," he acknowledged. "We'll be playing Miami (Fla.)." 
This week's nationally televised tangle with the Hurricaines will bring Notre Dame's 1981 schedule to a close after the Irish came up short against 13th rank.ed and Fiesta­bowl bound Penn State Saturday. 
Though it's true that quarterbacks get too much credit for a win and too much blame for a loss, a pair of big plays by the two sophomore field generals were the difference in the game's outcome. 
Irish signal caller Blair Kiel, who threw ·for 183 yards and a pair of touchdowns, also threw an untimely interception that led to PSU's win­ning score. 
"I guess it wasn't the smartest thing on my part," said Kiel of his toss to Phil Carter; it was picked off by third string tackk Greg Gattuso. "They were using a 'spy technique.' Their linebackers would come in and blitz and their linemen would drop off. Phil ran a good pattern and I tried to lob the. ball out there to him, but he (Gattuso) was there." 
Revitalized by the fourth quarter turnover, Penn Stat•:'s Todd Black­ledge, booed for a poor performance earlier in the game, (:arne through in the clutch and marched the Uons of­fense 82 yards, carrying the ball over himself from the one-yard line to give his team a come-from-behind 24-21 win. 
"That quarterback delay was something we had last week," ex­plained Coach Joe Paterno. "It worked because Notre Dame doesn't use the option in their of­fense. They don't play against it." 
"Blackledge had a good game un­der adverse circumstances with the wind," he continued. "He made some good passes, ones to get us out ofa hole and he ran tough." 
But the toughest running was done by reserve tailback Jon Wil­liams. Subbing for an injured Curt Warner (State's leading rusher), the sophomore kept his ream on keel all day. He spearheaded the Irish defense when it counted most, carrying three straight times for 46
.. 
yards on Penn State's winning drive to set up Blackledge's plunge. Wil­liams had 192 total yards, the most gained by any back against Notre Dame this season. 
"Our kids thought Notre Dame might have gotten a little tired on our last drive (for the go-ahead score)," offered Paterno. "But that's what football games are all about. Two teams are in there slugging it out, and when you get some momentum, you go with it.'' 
"We didn't play very well at all, and I don't know why," offered linebacker Bob Crable about the defensive breakdowns that cost them the game. "They didn't show us anything different-we were just lousy." 
"We prepared for both Williams and Warner," explained tackle Tim Marshall. "There isn't much dif­ference between the two. He (Williams) just took advantage ofhis great offensive line and burned us." 

Yet earlier, Notre Dame had the offense that was on fire. They climbed from a ten point defecit to go up 21-17 on touchdowns right before and right after the half. Mar­shall's fumble recovery set up a Kiel to Tony Hunter score in the second q~arter. An interception by Crable 
See GRIDDERS, page 8 

leers sweep series against Buckeyes 
By ED KONRADY postte sides of the goalie near the 
Sports Writer boards. 
The new formation, · which the 

The Notre Dame hockey team Irish used to confuse Ohio State, has 
broke its ACC ji t nx, destroyed the · a single point man at the blueline, dreaded second period slump, and the two wingers in the same spot as swept its series with Ohio State this t.efore and the addition of another past weekend, winning a 6-3 deci­center into the slot which caused sion Saturday night after stopping more disruption in front ofthe net. the Buckeyes 6-4 on Friday. There was a lot of disruption on 
The enmity between the teams the ice in the second period ofSatur: was quite evident, as the two day's game as a wrestling match referees called 48 penalties over the broke out among several of the weekend for 99 minutes ofpenace. players. 
The second period slump which "There really wasn't any fighting,•· has haunted Notre Dame this season said Head Coach "Lefty" Smith. may have finally been exorcised as "Tempers have a tendency to go 
In the opening game as sophomore every once in a while when you get center Kirt Bjork tallied twice in a real intense and sometimes it gets a minute and a half. little bit out of whack. I didn't think 
The key to breaking the slump, it was anything ofanyserious nature. according to Bjork, was "We were I thought the referees handled it going into a shell and not getting to very well." 
the puck. In the second period "I don't approve of it (the fight­tonight we went out for the first ten ing)," said Irish captain Dave Poulin, minutes and beat them to every "but if the referees were tougher, puck and we controlled the game'.'~ it'd take away a lot of stick work. If 
In all, the Irish scored five goals in they (Ohio State) know that we're that frame against goalie John Dam­going to stand up to them, since rath, who coming into this weekend, their game is physical, and that was eighth in the CCHA with a 3.12 they're not going to get away with it, goals against average. then it makes it a world ofdifference 
Senior goalkeeper Dave Laurion out there. So I think the referees did played well for the Irish, stopping 29 right, as long as they keep control of shots Friday and 3 7 blasts Saturday. the game." 
Laurion led the league coming into A key to the series was the play of 
this weekend's action with 233 the fourth line, Tim Reilly, Mark 
saves. Doman, and Dave Lucia. "Dave had 
Of the seven shots that slipped himself an excellent weekend," said past Laurion, five were while the Smith. "Saturday, Timmy Reilly did Irish were short-handed. It seemed an excellent job, got his wheels real­that Notre Dame's penalty-killing ly moving out there. Reilly, Doman unit allowed Ohio State to penetrate and Lucia gave us that fourth line the "box," the area in between the that we could put our there regular­four defensemen on the ice, which ly. Not only did they keep us even, let the Buckeyes take point-blank they got some outstanding scoring shots against the Irish goalkeeper. opportunities and then Lucia even 
Powerplays played a big part in 

got the winning goal. Notre Dame's success story. Halfof "The fourth line is very important the Irish's 12 goals came in man-up 
to us because when you're going situations. One possible reason for 
two nights in a row, your endurance this was the addition ofa new forma­starts to wear down, and you have a 
tion for the power play lines. The lot of specialty situations, so it most familiar set up has two becomes very important to have pointman on the blue line, the cen­
ter in the slot in front of the goalie See ICERS, page 10and two wingers who are on op-The Belgrade Red Star team's 81­


76 victory over the Fighting Irish of 
Notre Dame is easily explainable. 
The visiting Yugoslavians played as a 
team and Notre Dame didn't. It's as 
simple as that. The Red Star team 
used a deliberate almost methodical 
offensive approach which despite 
being unspectactular was steady and 
very effective. 
The Irish used full court pressure 
to take an early 22-8 lead sparked by 
fotward Bill Varner who scored half 
of Notre Dame's points during the 
successful stretch. But the Yugos­
lavians height advantage as well as 
their excellent outside shooting 
began to surface late in the first half 
narrowing the deficit to four, 41-37. 
"I thought we played extremely 
well during the first ten minutes," 
said Irish coach Digger Phelps. "But 
as the game progressed it became 
obvious that we couldn't handle 
them on the boards. They remained 
patient offensively and began to get 
the ball inside the lane. On the other 
hand, we started rushing our shots 
aud before you knew it, our 14 point 
lead had dwindled to four." 
Notre Dame's junior guard John 
Paxson tossed in 29 points connect­ing on 15 out of 16 from the line with Varner and Tom Sluby adding ' 17 and 14 respectively. But unfor­tunately the balanced scoring con­tributed by Paxson, Varner and Sluby didn't rub offon the rest ofthe starting lineup. Starting center Barry 
the field and Paxson's backcourt 
counterpart Mike Mitchell came up 
empty in four attempts. 
Sophitmore string-bean Cecil 
Rucker pitched in with 10 points 
and shared rebounding honors with 
Spencer as they snared seven each. 
Not surprisingly, it was Paxson, 
who also dished out a team leading 
six assists that caugl}.t. the eye of 
Yugoslavian coach Ranko Zeravic. 
"That number 23 runs the show for 
Notre Dame. He speaks one Ian· 
guage while the rest of the team 
speaks a second language." 
The Belgrade Red Star's spoke a distinct language oftheir own build­ing their vocabulary with "defense" as their base word. The Yugos­lavian's forced Notre Dame into 36 
percent shooting in the second half and a meager 43 percent for the game. 
"There's no doubt that they came to play tonight because they know who we are," said Phelps. "Europeans don't dribble against the press which was effective early but not late in the game. They're fun­damentally sound, they shoot well, and they're starting to build a team in much the same way Russia did before the boycott by touring the United States." 
The press that was instrumental in h<>llooning Notre Dame's lead in the first ten minutes posed no problem 
, See YUGOSLAVIANS, page 8 


... wbofumbles tbefootball after tbe bit . .. ... and tbe ball is recovered by tbe Irish. Tbe offense converted tbe turnover into a touchdown (photos by jobnMacor)
... 





