• .IrishMiracle-page 10
• 

VOL XV, NO. 97 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint-mary's MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1981 
Murday, Kenney discuss platform 

Don Murday, a junior manage­ment major from Carroll Hall, is one of two announced candidates fur next week's Student Govern­ment Student Body President elec­tion, along with running mate Tara Kenney. In this two-part series, Obserr1er Executive News Editor Tom Jackman interviews Murday and Kenney, and, next week, his opponent Patrick Borchers. 

Q: What Is your vision of Stu­dent Government as It would work at peak efficienq? What can It really accomplish? 
A: Well, there arc two different areas in which the student govcrn­mt·nt deals; the area that deals with the University, and the area that deals with students as a whole. The (Student) Senate would address issues which the students can take care of themselves, such as ven­ding, and security, issues which they <:an do research on (such as meal plans) and areas in which they t·an approach the Administra­tion, with the research and the background, and have their homework done. I found that's the hest way to handle the Administra­tion around here, is to go in there wdl versed in your area, know what you're talking about, and be ready for anything they can come back at you with, because as you know, they'll try to put you off or shoo you aside. But if you can pin them down, and have the answers to th<:ir questions, they begin to lis­ten to you. So in areas like that, I think the Senate will be tht· viable sourt·c for the students to ap­proach. 
In other areas, such as party room guidelines, rules, the student center, there arc things which should be discussed by the Univer­sity as a whole, including faculty, including rectors and ad­ministrators. 
Q: You think thefaculty should be brought into this? 
A: Just for their input. Also, be­cause I think they're in favor of what we have to say. You'd be surprised the number of fuculty members who know what's going on around here, that know the problems. They, and also the rec­tors I feel are very important, and also the administrators. I think all the issues that we bring to the CLC are not ont•s which are going to be debated on, but rather to gather in­put into the areas. I think the Uni­versity is in favor of a student center, it's just a matter of time 
before we get one. I think the Uni­versity wants to look at the whole party room scene and guidelines, 
• and see what would be the best rules for everyone. I think ifwe gat­fler that input, and formulate a proposal that we haven't ap­proached the Administration with, then we'll have the support of the CLC, and that's important to Fr. Van (Wolvlear). In other areas, we really don't need the input of the CLC, we're mainly doing our homework and approaching them ourselves. 

Q: Your platform mentions the creation ofa "student complaint bureau." What would that be, and how would it differ from Om­budsman? 
A: Well, I think it would be bet­ter to have a direct line to Security. Maybe we'll just redefine OBUD, but I know that at the Student Senate meeting, there were com­plaints brought up by people about Security. What we should do is set up a bureau in which people can approach students. I would know who to approach only because I've been involved, but ifyou were just a student on the street, I'm sure you wouldn't think of going to Dean Roemer with a complaint (about Security). 
Q: But that's who they answer to. 
A: That's right, but you or I wouldn't know that. But if we set up a bureau which would handle 
The McCandless-HolyCross booth was one ofthe buster spots at
SeeQ&A, page 3 
Mardi Gras during the final hours ofwhat may be the last festtval. 
===============================================:::::~approach by Brezhncv to resolving 
For children under 10 
Auto accidents are No.1 killer 
By ROBERT LOCKE 
AP Science Writer 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -About 1,200 American children die in car accidents every year. A San Fran· cisco doctor says more than 80 percent of those deaths could be prevented with safety seats that cost as little as $30. 
"This is now th~ major cause of death and disability among children under I 0 years old -it's greater than cancer, greater than anything else," Dr. Thomas Hunt of the University of California at San Francisco said. 
The most common injuries are to the head and spine, Hunt said, and thousands of children are injured or killed each year in sud­den stops that don't even involve crao;hes. 
Holding a child in your lap provides almost no protection, he said. A sudden stop from 30 mph imparts so much forward motion to an unrestrained body that "a child effectively weighs 300 pc>Unds at that time. Nobody can hold him." 
Ripped from a mother's arms, a 
baby "acts like a missile" ... hitting 
whatever is ahead of him. The 
crushing force (of a dashboard or 
windshield) on a child's body or 
brain would be the same as if the 
child fell from a three-story build­
ing," Hunt said. 
The tragedy is that so many of 
the deaths and injuries are so easily 
preventable, Hunt said in a 
telephone interview. "Our es­
timate is you could cut those 1,200 
deaths to just 200 nationwide and 
(reduce) disbilities from 60,000 to 
10,000" by using crash-tested safety seats that just strap to a car's regular scats. 
Hunt is president of the American Trauma Society, an or­ganization of physicians who specialize in treatment of severe InJuries. The society recently sponsored a San Francisco educa­
tional conference  on  young vic­ 
tims ofauto accidents.  
Hunt  noted  that  Tennessee  

passed a law in 1977 that requires safety scats for children under 4 years old -with the exception of children held by pao;scngers. 
Hunt said the state has about 30 percent compliance and "since that time there have been 76 children killed in auto accidents ­only one was (confirmed to be) in a safety seat." But of the 14 children killed in car crashes in Tennessee last year, 13 had been held by passengers. 
The Tennessee legislature is considering a bill to remove that loophole. Rhode Island has adopted a similar bill without the exception. 
Hunt said some car seats on the 
market are good enough that their 
use could save 1,000 young lives a 
year. But many are fur from ade­
quate, he warned, urging con­
sumers to look for the words 'crash 
tested' on the box. 
"You won't find a crash-tested 
one for under about S30. But 
compared with the cost ofa baby's 
shots, it's not much money at all. 
And it would probably save more kids." 
He said safety seats should be used anytime a youngster is travel­ing in a moving car, beginning with the first ride home from the hospi­tal and lasting to about a~e 4. 
If the hazards and remedies are so well known, why don't all parents put their children in safety seats? 
"I guess it's mostly the same reason adults don't wear seat belts," Hunt said. "They never believe it can happen to them, so 
See KILLER, page 3 
No suspects 
St. Michael~s 
By DAVID SARPHIE 
StaffReporter 
Notre Dame Security has no 
suspects in the Friday morning 
burglary of the St. Michael's 
Laundry Service. An undetermined 
amount of money was taken from 
the laundry, which serves the male 
dormson the Notre Dame campus. 
According to director of 
Security Glenn Terry, an employee 
of the laundry found the southeast 
door of the plant open, when he 
arrived for work at 5 a.m .. The door 
to the office had been forced open 
and the floor safe smao;hed. 
Terry said that the method of .entry ofthe burglar or burglars wao; 
still in question. "There are three 
possibilities," he noted. "Either the 
Soviet Congress convenes 
MOSCOW (AP) -The Soviet Communist Pany, already proclaiming "major" fordgn policy succe!'.>cs over th~ past flvt• years, is expected to focus its 26th Communist Party (:ongress opening here Monday on r~lations With the W~st, informed SOUfl'CS here said. 
The two-wt·ek-long Congress is heing viewed by many analysts as a baromct~r of long-term Soviet strategy plans. President Leonid I. Brczhnev's speech to th<.· opening session is considered his most im­portant policy address since the last Soviet congr~ss in 1976. 
Plans for Brezhncv's spct"l·h were being closely guarded, but Western diplomats said they ex­pected the address to contain several new foreign policy . in· itiatives. 
These could Include laying the groundwork for an improved dialogue with the United States despite current problems, pc·rhaps ~ven leading to an eventual meeting between Brezhnev and President Reagan orother Western leaders, tht·y said. Some observers anticipated a slightly mor<.· flexible 
the controversy over Soviet military intervention in Afghanis­tan, hut t no change in basic policy toward the central A1>ian nations was expected. 
State television broadcast film of arriving foreign Communist leaders, including Fidel Cao;tro of Cuba and Polish party chiefStanis­law Kania. It also broadcast filOtage of foreign Communist leaders laying wreaths at the Lenin mausoleum on Red Square ad­jacent to the Kremlin. 
Red Square and the: surrounding area were decorated with enor­mous pictures of Lenin and Brezhncv, and patriotic musk blared from loudspt·akers on adjoining streets. 
Some 4,000 Sovkt party mem­bt:rs and nearly I00 foreign Com-
See SOVIET, page4 


burglarized 
person used a key to get in, or h~ stayed in the building after .the dose of business, or he came in through a skylight." 
Terry said the door found open on the southeast side of the plant was probably used ao; an exit route. "The bolt lock on that door was pulled out from the 'lock' posi­tion," he explained. "There was no indication that it wao; done from the outside." 
Terry noted that a security of­fleer had checked the laundry at 
4:07 that morning and found all doors and windows secure. "This doesn't nt:cessarlly mean that the building was empty," he cau­tioned. "Someone could have been wandering around inside for five hours for all we know." 
r-~----------------~---------------~-­
-
.<;:. 
Monday, February 23, 1981 -page 2

News Brie/§ 
c===~=======*==============================~
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Federal Health Officials yesterday strongly urged testingofmore private wells, as potentiallydangerous levels ofarsenic continued to be found in drinking water in southern New Hampshire and in two Massachusetts towns. Today, a federal epidemiologist planned to start examining 'babies born last year in this New Hampshire community of 14,000 to see if any have symptoms of ar­senic poisoning detected in one infant. Signs of arsenic poisoning in young john Constantian sparked initial tests in Hudson, N.H. The. symptoms disappeared as soon as the infant was switched from well water to bottled water. Three adults also have reported arsenic poisoning symptoms, city officials said. By early yesterday, 611 wells had been tested in central New Hampshire. More than 13percentcent showed arsenic levels above the 50 parts per billion limit considered safe by the U.S. environmental Protection Agency, officials said. Several showed readings classified as dangerous by some health ex­pert's. -AP 
. In the largest cocaine seizure ever, the direc­tor of a CET A-funded youth counseling center has been suspended following his arrest. According to drug officials 826 pounds of processed cocaine was seized with a street value estimated at S206.5 million. "You can't tell who's who in Miami anymore. I'm so upset it's not funny," said Willy Gort, chairman ofthe board ofthe Youth Co-op in Miami's Little Havana section. "He's suspended." Florida Depart· ment of Law Enforcement agents arrested Angel E. Alvarez, 43, and Alberto joaquin Cordero, 50, Friday night as they were leaving Cor­dero's Miami home. Both were being held on S 1 million bond y~ster-" day and are to be arraigned today. Alvarez Is the director ofthe Youth Co-op, which is funded under the federal Comprehensive Employ­ment and Training Act. Agents said they found the cocaine packed in clear plastic bags in 26 boxes in a garage owned by Cordero. "This is 
·the high-purity stuff right out of the lab," said Rolando Bolanos, an assistant special agent with the Florida Department of Law Enforce­ment. -AP 
Two Saint Mary's studentswere arrested inside of Bridget McGuire's Filling Station Thursday night. South Bend Police Special Operations Officers entered the bar at 6 p.m. and arrested Noel Morahan, 20, and Colleen Anne McMahon, 20, on charges of posession of an alcohlic beverage by a minor. The students were transported to St. joseph Countyjail and released on bail. -The Ob­server 
NATO-Secretary-General Joseph Luns warned yesterday, against disunity in the Western alliance and called for an end to the "unprofitable" trans-Atlantic debate on defense ex­penditures. His remarks came one day after U.S. Deputy Defense Secretary Frank Carlucci declared here that Western European na­tions could not expect the United States to spend more money protecting its allies if they did not do more to help themselves. Addressing a meeting of 140 defense experts from Western Europe and North America, Luns said "A stop must be put to the unprofitable trans-Atlantic debate over the question of who provides what for whose defense." "The alliance partners must-work against the growing influence in the direction ofa split ofNATO ... Astrong Wes­tern defense is the urgent condition for a real detente (with Soviet Union)." Luns said the Soviet Union sought to impose its ideology on others, and called this "especially threatening" against a background of growing Soviet military strength. The new Reagan administration has announced plans to increase defense spending, and American leaders in recent years have been urging their European counterparts to do the same. Such plans have met considerable resistance, especial­ly from West Germany, which, although an enthusiastic NATO partner, is suffering a record Sl4 billion current account deficit. West German leaders point out that their country, unlike the \Jnited States, has a peacetime draft, which helps maintain a high state of combat readiness. -AP 
Marine Sgt.Johnny McKeelJr., one of the 52 former hostages, said yesterady he has received death threats since he returned home from Iran, many from people identifying themselves as Vietnam veterans. McKeel said he has received "about 12" threats on his life, mostly in letters. McKeel said in a telephone interview that he has not notified authorities and is trying to ignore the threats. "I don't 
take them seriously," he said, adding "99 percent of them are just cranks anyhow." McKeel said he's also been plagued by "people cal­ling and not saying anything and hanging up." Many of the threats were from people who said they were Vietnam veterans upset by all..., the attention lavished onthe former hostages, he said. The callers and letter writers did not identify themselves by name, McKeel said. -AP 
The University has replaced the stereos stol~n during Christmas break from Sorin HaJJ. Fr. john Van Wolvlear com­mented that the basketball team was permitted to stay in Sorin Hall because their original lodging, Moreau Hall, was mistakenly locked up. He said, "it was an exceptional case and shall never happen again. The students have a contract, and the University has no right to lodge people in a students room without their permission." Fr. Dave Porter­field, the rector of Sorin, was praised for his actions in the incident. One ofthe victims, Mark Skorz stated "Fr. Porterfield did an admirable job, he went out of his way for us so our problems could be resolved quickly." Security reports that they have no suspects in the case. ­
The Observer. 

Cloudy and breezywith periods oflight rain. Highs in the mid 40s. Cloudy at night with agood chance ofsnow flurries. Lows in the low to mid 30s. Cloudy tomorrow with a chance offlurries or drizzle. Highs in the low to mid 40s. -AP· 
OnNotesfrom the Nile 

Notes from the Nile is a genuine first as a major stage creation for it is the first ND-SMC Theatre production which is both written and directed by a student. Adri Trigiani, the creator of this event, is a Saint Mary's theatre major. She was asked by the department last year not only to direct a play for the 1980-81 season, but to write one. Notes from the Nile evolved from a great deal ofresearch. It is a fresh and original approach to the historic romance ofAnthony and Cleopatra. Adri is an extremely cre'ative and talented woman, who pulls from an extensive resource ofwriting, directing and ac­ting talents for this production. Adri is a humanist writer who records in her plays what she sees in life, trying to make sense from it. In a recent interview, Adri talked about how she conceived this play and what the play is about: 
Notes from the Nile was a play that came in bits and pieces and pieces and then BOOM! all of a sudden I wrote it. The play is unique in its concept. I think Icame up with it when I was studyingAnljJony and Cleopatra in Shakespeare. The idea came sometime before then, but that kind of gelled it. There was no description of C\eopatra's face anywhere. I began to do research over the summer and she just absolutely enraptured me. I thought "My God, she's great!" I think history probably gave her a raw deal. She is, I think, a wonderful and powerful woman, an interesting woman, and a funny woman. 
As her lover, Anthony was probaby the only man in 
the history of mankind who gave up everything for a 
women; a man who put her above his job and his inter­
ests. He was so in love with her that he could see not­
hing but her. I think those two people absolutely 
thrilled me to pieces and I thought "I've got to do some­
thing with them." So I rewrote the story. I think they 
loved each other so strongly that there has got to be 
somethingwonderful and lastingabout that which must 
be maintained That's why I changed it to how it might 
have happened in a comedy. 

On Cleopatra -Cleopatra is based on a salesgirl I 
met in New York. She was hunched over in a chair with 
this frizzy hair, eating yogurt. There was this dress we 
wanted to see -I was with my cousin Ralph -and she 
ignored us. She had on these longdangling earrings and 
this Danskin skirt. Her legs were crossed and she was 
leaningovereating next to the cash register. So that was 
Cleopatra I used this woman's image in rriy head when I 
wrote Cleopatra 

It doesn't really matter in my play whether she is gor­
geous or not. The point I am trying to make is that it 
does not matter. None ofthe men look at Cleopatra un­
til a certain point in the play when she has them look at 
her, because she is so beautiful. And the men -by not 
looking at her-just propagate the myth ofher beauty,· 
so nobody really knows. Things manifest themselves in 
a person's makeup which make them think that certain 
things are ~eautiful and appealing and others aren't, 
which is what makes horse-racing and the world go 
round. 

So, Cleopatra does not look like Elizabeth Taylor. But 
funny you should mention it, because Elizabeth the 
Tailor is in the play. She is the seamstress in the castle. 
She is single and Eddie the Fisherman is interested in 
her~' Debbie the Fisherwoman is his wife, which, of 
course, brings up the whole Liz Taylor, Eddie Fisher, 
Debbie Reynolds thing. 


On Anthony -Every person in the world wants to be 
loved and Anthony wants very much to be loved. But he 
also wants to give love and in that love he is very giving 
of himself He probably will appeal greatly to the 
women of the audience and the men might not under­
stand him. But I think many men will because I have a 
lot offaith in men. I think that the Anthony character is 
very courageous. He cares deeply, feels deeply, desires 
deeply, needs deeply and gives ofhimselfincredibly. 
Purpose of the play -Notes from the Nile is also a 
serious play. It's all about what we do when we love, 
why we do what we do and how we can learn from 
when we love. If it was not the best relationship in the 
world, what do we gain from that? 
Cleopatra was very selfish in some ways and so was 
Anthony. They somehow learned in this play to build a 
bridge. They are not the perfect couple. They are just 
like human beings -perfect in every way except they 
have a lot of faults. Men and women hurt each other, 
women hurt one another, and men hurt on another. 
That bothers me a lot. I want to know why people hurt 
one another. Notes from the Nile somehow pinpoints 
that. Cleopatra did not want to be a queen, but became 
one. When you become something you don't want to 
·be, what kind of implications does that have on your 
life? Anthony had everything -he was the world's 
greatest general, he had a third ofthe Roman Empire, he 
had a beautiful wife and he chucked it all. Why? 
Whydo these two people love each other that much? Why did it take the turn it did and why can't it be good? My play is a comedy, so I want it to be good. It's a fantasy ending, but I think it's fair to say that the ending had to come from my frame ofreference as a kid who grew up when she did. I really resent that we're all up to our knees in "Don't regret it, don't regret it" when it comes , to a relationship because when you regret something, you feel bad about it and you will do something to cor­rect it. Whe~ you don't, when you live in this world that 
says, "I'm going to do the best by myself' -that's not 
fair. That's not the way to live. 
That is one of the strong chords in Notes from the 
Nile. It is one that I hope everyone will think about 
when they see the play, rather than paying attention 
only to the laughs and situations -but it's great ifthey 
laugh. Because when you laugh you're thinking. 

Observer notes-----. 
In Friday's edition, The Observer reported incor­rectly the names ofthe candidates for the run-off elec­tion for the Saint Mary's sophomore class officers. The run-off, which will be held tomorrow, will be between the ticket of Mary Duvic, Beth Aisthorpe, Sue Flynn and Nancy Orr and the ticket of Kathleen Murphy, Elaine Hocter, Denise Drake and Maureen Hughes. 

'----------------------..1 

The_Ohs.erY-er 


NAZZMUSIC COMPETITION 

Design Editor..................... Margaret Kruse Design Assistants ................ Monica Gugle Patty Hulley Layout Staff............................... Kim Parent 

Applications Due TODAY 
Michael A. Zernick Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor .., ........................ Margie Brassil 

by 5 pm in Student Union Copy Editor..................... Dave Rickabaugh Sports Copy Editor ............. Dave Dziedzic 

Office, 2nd floor la Fortune
Typist ............................. , ........... Patty Hulley Systems Controi................ Stephen Brown Ad Design ............................ Woody & Mary Pbotograpber ............................ john Macor 

Mandatory Meeting for all act leaders, Tuesday 7 pm in the Nazz For info call Jm Steedle 277-1347 

monday night film series 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday 

Monday, February 23 
except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is8ublished 

The Little Foxes (RKO) 1941 by the students of Notre ame and 
Lillian Hellman adapted her own play of a scheming
Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions 

Southern business family. William Wyler directed and Greg
may be purchased for $20 per year 

(Citizen Kane) Toland did the cinematography. With Bette
($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre 

Davis, Herbert Marshall and Dan Duryea. Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 
THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 
46556. 

7:30 pm admission $1.00
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 

sponsored by
rights are reserved. 

ND -SMC COMMUNICATION &THEATRE 
The Observer Monday, February 2 3, 1981 -page 3 
For SMC residences 
Board discusses Director role 
By SUSAN KING 
Ner4'S Staff 
The role of Residence Directors was the main issue discussed at the Saint Mary's Board of Governance meeting last night in Regina Hall. Student Body President, Kathleen Sweeney, questioned "the relation· ship between Hall Govcrment and Residence Lift·." 
Residence assistants and st.·ction representives have communication conflicts concerning hall activities causing Sweeney to deicde to "work on a policy." Sweeney added, "The hoard's major emphasis is on the im· portancc of Section Reps as an im· portant communication network." 
The next item of discussion was a new movie policy student govcrmcnt wishes to install. l"""'t·nt··v explained, "Clubs want to w movies as fund raisers and stu· nt goverment wants a forma! ure of policy that clubs can to hook movies as fund raisers." preSt.·nt the Student Activities m Board holds all the power lrnm·••r•,;ng movies shown at Carroll 
Following a decison made last the Board of Governance to disband the Student As· mhly. Student Assembly will be by more active commit· however, Sweeney said, "There not he a change in the constitu-
Tht.· board has also agreed upon a 
which would "educate 
oplc about Student Goverment 
our programs," explained 
o.;,._,..,.n,•v This brochure will try to 
Saint Mary's students aboUl 
structure ofthe govcrmcnt, how 
bn·omc involved and who holds 
major offices. 
junior and Sophomore class run­
cle<:tions will be held this tomor­
row from I 0 a.m. to 4 p.m. in LcMans 
lohhy and from 4:30 p.m. to 6:30 
. on tht.• LcMans side of the 
ining hall. Also tomorrow at 6:30 
p.m. in the Saint Mary's Club House, 
·re will he an Off Campus In· formation session for students think· 'ng of moving off t·ampus next year. 
pros and l'Oils of living off <::tmpus will he discussed. 
.. .Killer 
from page I 

gt·t t·ardt•ss." 
·said the Trauma Society isn't 
lrnistic about convindng adults 
ust· scatbdts, "hut kids arc dif· 
Parems arc more carcfi.ll 
their kids. It's easier for a rnothn to imagine; her d1ild being injurt·d than ht·rsdf." 
"If parents art· educated to this prohll'rn imrnt·diatdy prior to having a child, they'll start using tht· safety scats more." 
lie said most San Francisco hospitals now indudt.· sm:h cduca· tiona! programs in their natural childbirth courses and otht·r part·natal dasscs and "gradually tlw scats arc being used more. And tlwsc kids will carry that into adul· thood," he said. 
Wednesday, Brian Hehir, a con· temporary theologian and a member ofthe Bishop's Council, will speak at Carroll Hall at 7:30 p.m. on social justice issues. Catholic Social Service Worker and Saint Mary's graduate, Peg Donovan, who works with un-wed mothers and adoption, will speak on Thursday at 12: I 5 p.m. in the Snack Bar. 
Funds have been raised for Am· 
continuedfrom page I 
the complaints and see them to the end, this would be its specific joh. 
Q: One of Paul Riehle's main goals last year was to centralize the student government. Has he done that, and is that one ofyour goals? 
A: What Paul wanted to do was to focus on where students could go to bring their problems. 
Q: What about all the acronyms, such as the HPC, the CLC, etc.? 
A: Well, I picture the HPC to be a body which would discuss many of the issues on campus, and then have the representatives bring them to the Student Senate as a whole. I think the HPC is a very im· portant body on campus. Being a member for two years, I think I can sec their input is probably the most varied on campus, since it is one person from all 23 dorms. 
Q: Yes, but why have both the HPC and the Student Senate? 
A: Because the HPC addresses other things than what is going to be discussed in the Student Senate. I think what Paul wanted to do is to bring a group together which would have a broad opinion, but to have elected officials on it, such as class officials etc. I think he's pul­ling in a good, varied opinion from the student body, and not in a body as large as the IIPC. fhe Student Senate addresses just the things that Student Government should address, the issues to be discussed between them and the Administra· tion. The HPC is more ofa union of correspondents between the dorms, to sec what problems other dorms are having, to offer advice, and to organize social activities, which is very'i\'nportant between the dorms. 
I think the Senate takes m tatters from the IIPC, and works on them in that direction, while also taking input in other areas. These 



I hope this means something to you because I'm wmpletely lost. In fact, what am I doing here? (Photo byjohn Macor) 

v9•IS A PUBLIC AI'I'AIBS GBADUATII ~ 1 SCHOOL YOUil CAilJJIJI MOVIJ?
L]J 
r-.Jl 

~ -1....~,....... 
If your degree ls ln 
•lconomics 
-Biolo&J 

•Political 
Science •Chemistry 

•Inglish 
•Math 

•Biltory 
•Computer Science, or •Business 


-Geography 
•Sociology 
And you plan a career ln 
•lnvironmental 
Policy •Oity Management 

•Public 
rinancial Adminiatration •Health Systems Administration 

•Public 
Management •Public Policy Analysis 

•Labor 
Relations •Public Safety Policy, or 

•Planning 
•International Adminil&ration 


Bow's 1ihe time 1io make your move! 
Good career preparation requires all the sldll of a master cheu player. All the piece• have to work togethtr in a plan. If you're thinking abnt a career ln public management or environmental policy, you owe i& &o yourself to examine our game plan. 
We're the Indiana University School of Public .t lnvironmenbl Affairs, 
and in 1980 every one of our Master of Public Affairs graduates who registered with our placement service was hired into a professional position. Oome vilit with us on rriday, rebruary 17 at 8180 am, 
or write Public-Affairs Graduate Programs, School of hbllc .t lulronmen&al Affairs, Indiana Vnlverslty 
bassador White's spea!<ing engage­ment next month. "Ambassador White, former U.S. ambassador to El Salvador, was removed from his position because he doesn't believe in U.S. aid to El Salvador," explained Mary Ellen Maccio, social justice commissioner. Ambassador White's lecture will be conducted at O'Laughlin Auditorium on either March 25 or 26. 


UNDERGRADUATE GRANTS 
for participation in the 
SUMMER INSTITUTE ON PLANETS AND CliMATE 
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY in cooperation with the 
NASA GODDARD INSTITUTE FOR SPACE STUDIES 
w111 select 15 students for a 4·week lecture course and 6-week research sess1on. devoted to the study of iJiane­tary atmospheres and climate change. for a total of 6 pomts of academe credit The program w1ll meet from June 8 to August 14. 1981 
Full financial support. 1ncludmg tu1110n and fees. accommodations. a st1pend. and round-tnp travel ex· penses to New York C1ty. w111 be awarded to each parti­Cipant Applicants must have a background eqUivalent to 3 years of college trammg m mathematics and sc1ence. 
Applications m the form of a letter should be sub· m1tted by March 30 to Summer lnst1tute on Planets and Climate. 102 Low Library, Columbia Un1vers1ty. New York. NY 10027. The letter must mdude home and school addresses. telephone number, soctal security number: a one·page typed statement of the appl1cant's goals and interests: an Official transcrtpt of college courses and grades Three professors familiar with the appltcant's work must provtde letters of reference. 

.Q&A 
proposals will then be discussed and debated on the Senate floor, formulated into a proposal and brought before the Administra­tion. 
Q: Tara, what do yo11 see as the role of the vice president in this government, as compared to past VPs? 
A: First of all, we're working toward coeducation, which takes on the emphasis of both male and female. This year, we've won a major victory in that there will be a girl's voice as well as a guy's. This year, I'm. on the Student Senate, and I'm the only female member, and I'm just seeing that there is a need for more female input into this, as well as a male counterpart. 
1 feel I'm a minority in that there aren't as many girls involved here as there should be. What we want here is coeducation, which means the integration of both forces so that people don't feel there's a "social problem" around here. One way we feel this can be ac­complished is through the Student Senate. Don's worked on' this for two years, and I've also worked with him last year. I don't feel like I'm an alien to Don, I feel like we've been working together since I've been here, which is also very im· portant. I think that a president and vice president have to have a back­ground working together on some minor things getting accomplished before they take on the big problems. 
Murday: Sec, I envision Student 
Government coming into its own. 
I've worked for two years with the 
Administration, and learned how 
to work with them: who to ap· 
proach, when to approach them, 
and I think that is the most impor­
tant aspect ofStudent Government 
-respect from the Administra· tion, and a sense of continuity. That's a thing the Administration's 
See Q & A, page4 . 



'------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­The Observer Monday, February 23, 1981 -page 4 
Afghans continue .resistance 

WASHINGTON (AP) Whatever happened to potentially "the most serious threat to peace since the second world war?" 
That is whatjimmy Carter called the Soviet intervention in Af­ghanistan in the former president's State ~f the Union message to Congress inJanuary 1980. 
Now, 14 months after 55,000 Russian troops rolled into the country, the war in Afghanistan is off the front pages. The few linger­ing diplomatic initiatives to end the fighting are attracting little at­tention or interest. 
The Soviets are dug in for the long haul. They now have 85,000

I 
I soldiers in Afghanistan, but are I unable to overcome Afghan resis­
i. 
tance. They give no indication of leaving, and the United States has not found a way to reverse the situation. 
The Soviet occupation of Af­ghanistan and the fall in early 1979 of a friendly government in Iran have had a major impact on U.S. military strategy. 
'Phe Pentagon got to work on setting up a rapid deployment force to be rushed on short notice to crisis areas and seven ships loaded with equipment, food and ammunition were sent to the In­dian Ocean. 

The Carter administration quiet­ly abandoned its idea of neutralizing the ocean region in negotiations with the Soviets. The Reagan administration plans to have two aircraft carrier task forces patrolling near the Persian Gulf 
But there is no longer talk o{ confrontation with the Soviet Uni­on over Afghanistan. The partial grain embargo imposed by Carter to punish the Russians may be lifted by Reagan. Other sanctions 
apparently  are  not  being  con­ 
sidered.  
And  yet,  in  Afghanistan,  the  

Sovits are pushing ahead with their effort to force acceptance of Presi­dent Babrak Karmal's government. 
Intelligence sources here say violence is increasing in Kabul, the capital, and other major cities, while bombing of villages has failed to force young men to obey Afghan army draft calls. 
Faced with mass desertions, the pro-Soviet government extended 
1 reers Don't Just Happen 

At the Institute for Paralegal Training we have prepared over 4,000 college graduates for careers in law, business and finance. After just three months of intensive training, we will place you in a stimulating and challenging position that offers professional growth and expanding career opportunities. As a Legal Assistant you will do work traditionally performed by attorneys and other professionals in .law firms, corporations, banks, government agencies and insurance companies. Furthermore, you will earn graduate credit towards a Master of Arts in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law for all course work completed at The Institute. 
We are regarded as the nation's finest and most prestig­ious program for training legal specialists for law firms, business and finance. But, as important as our academic quality is our placement result. The Institute's placement :.u. service will find you a job in the city ofyourchoice.lf not, you will be eligible for a substantial tuition refund. 
If you are a senior in high academic standing and looki~g for the most practical way to begin your career, contact your Placement Office for an interview with our representative. 
Wewillvisityourcampuson: MARCH 2", 1981 



Recruitment will be taking place on St. Mary's Campus 
The 

Institute 
235 South 1 7th Street for Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600
Paralegal Training 
(Operated by Para-Legal, Inc.) 
Approved by The American Bar Association Programs Earn Full Credit Toward M.A. in Legal Studies th h Antioch School of Law. 
the two-year term of service in January by six months. Police in Kabul rioted when their duty was lengthened as well. 
Information reaching the State Department indicates at least I 0 percent of Afghanistan's 15.5 mil­lion population has fled to Pakistan since the Red Army's intervention. In January, 143,000 Afghans crossed the border, more than in any previous month. 
At least 300,000 refugees have moved into Iran. 
Nevertheless, the war and the suffering have faded from the headlines. The Reagan administra­tion is giving the Soviet support for leftist insurgents in El Salvador the kind ofattention Carter temporari­ly trained on Afghanistan. Nervous American eyes are cast on Poland, where reformers are risking Soviet wrath, not on Afghanistan. 
In shaping a new U.S. foreign policy, the Reagan administration does not seem to be giving ing Af­ghanistan very high priority. 
The Soviets, meanwhile, have failed to gain approval from the third world for Babrak. 
.Q&A 
continuedfrom page3 
always harped on, saying "One year, Student Government wants this, and another year they want this." I think it's important in terms ofcontinuity this year in the transi­tion from P.J. (Riehle) to myself in that I worked with him this year, and for two years on the HPC. I think I realize what he wants to do with Student Senate, where he waQ.tS it to go, and I think we can get there. I see Student Govern­ment becoming a very much stron­ger voice next year. I think P.). did a tremendous amount of work in that he got the Senate together and organized, and they're just now about to address things. Next year, all the hassle will be by the wayside, and we can really be ef­fective. 
Q: Paul Riehle has not called a meeting ofthe CLC thisyear. What would its future be ifyou were elected? 
A: I t,J:Iink that the CLC can be a very viable body, and that their in­put is very well respected, and I think the Administration will take heed of things which the CLC has discussed. It seems that everyone's pushing in the same general dis­cussion, but not together. I think the CLC can work in unison to solve some of the problems that we have. If we bring together all four inputs (students, rectors, faculty, administrators), which I think the CLC can do, then I think we have all aspects of the Univer­sity covered, and then there's just no way the problem can't be addressed. 
!C .II 
·wAM TO BE A CHEERLEADER? " 

an Informal meeting wUI be held In Ia fortune's little theater 
wednesday, feb. 25 at 7:30pm. 
a must for those who intend to try out this spring. 
notre dame cheerleaders 
• 


The Observer Monday, February 23, 1981 page 5 




Priest ,celebrates Van Gogh 
By DAN LEDUC Using slides, narration, and a said. "He struggles to unveil the News Staff ~trumming guitar to provide the healing secret of nature." background in the hushed The priest quoted Van Gogh's 
Vincent Van Gogh, a painter auditorium, Nouwen unfolded the letters: "Whether people approve who cut off his ear, spent a year in painter's story. or do not approve ofwhat I do and an insane asylum, and committed how I do it," the a"rtist wrote, "I for 
"Vincent offers comfort to 
suicide, was above all a comforter, know to
others because he was very honest my part no other way 
a consoler of man. wrestle
with himself," said Nouwen as he so lo11g with nature that 
That was the message of Rev. she tells me her secret."
presented more than 20 self­
Henri Nouwen to a crowd of more Van Gogh was living with a pros­
portraits by the artist. "Look,than 350 people in Washington titute during this time in his life,
maybe you will find that one ofhis Hall Friday night. Nouwen said. He wanted to live
eyes is looking inward and one is The priest, a native of Holland with the poor and the sorrowful.
looking outward." and a visiting professor at Notre As slides ofVan Gogh's paintings
"He did not run away from the
Dame in the late 1960's, is current­of old people praying, working,painful truth of his own painful
ly a faculty member at Yale Divinty and holding children appeared,condition," the priest said. "He
School. Nouwcn urged his audience to 
who was willing to crawl into the
CILA (Community for Interna­"meditate on the experience of
skin of others and discover there
tional Lay Apostolate,) which is human sorrow."
something worth seeing, did not
celebrating its 20th anniversary Nouwen said that after leaving
avoid looking at himself and con­
this year, the Student Union, and Holland, the Dutch painter
fronting his own self."
the Center for Experiential Learn­travdcd to France. It wa.~ there he ing sponsored the lecture on the Van Gogh had wanted to entered the light period of his Dutch artist. become a minister, Nouwen said. career. 
Taking the stage in a costume of But the artist didn't believe in the 'During this period, Van Gogh a cap and scarf, Nouwen began his benefit ofhis theological academy, wrote: "It is a.o; if nature starts to presentation of"Vincent The Com· wanting instead to take "a free burn. In everything there is old fortcr: The Ministry ofVincent Van course in the great university of gold, bronze, copper ... a sun, 
Gogh." "I want you to look at the misery." which, for lack of a better word, I work of a man who offered com­He became a painter. must call yellow, sulfur-yellow, fort," he said. The first part of Van Gogh's soft-yellow, lemon-yellow, gold. 
What followed was a theatrical career was his dark period; a time How beautiful is yellow!" and dramatic presentation of the of searching for truth. "Vincent "The sun makes him see people life and work ofVincent Van Gogh. searches for the truth," Nouwen in a new way," Nouwcn said. "They
• 

become like queens and kings, princes and princesses ... yes even like Saints." 
This loVl' for art, however, made 
the artist unable to give and 
receive real love: "One ·docs not 
expect out of life what one has al· 
ready learned it cannot give," the 
Report calls El Salvador junta 'mistake' 
WASIIINGTON ( AP)-U.S. sup­the need to block communist in­volvcment under these cir­ogy for pacification entertained by artist wrote:-. "But rather one port for El Salvador's civilian­roads there. cumstances. the actors who control that hegins to sec more and more clear­military junta is "a diplomatic The Reagan administration has "To be sure," the report says, govc:-rnment, the nature of the ly that life is only a kind ofsowingmistake and a misreading of Sal­asked Congress and U.S. allic:s for "the United States did not invent political regime which ha.o; 
time, and the harvest time is not vadoran history" that could con­an increase in aid to El Salavador. violence in El Salvador, but the at­emerged during the past year in El here." 
tribute to defeat of the democratic Plans to step up economic and tempt to treat a situation in which Salvador must he termed aut­Van Gogh spent a year in an cause in that Central American military assistance included the _the extreme right has become a horitarian. 
insane asylum, said Nouwcn. And, country, a report prepared for the dispatch ofU.S. military advisers to state within the state as 'moderate on July 30, I890, shot himself. 
State Department stated. the tiny Central American nation. reformism' is a diplomatic mistake "Why do we have to find con· Tht· rq>ort detailed El Salvador's Last week, a State Department and a misreading ofSalvadoran his­solation and comfort in this per­political changes owr the past 130 memorandum charged that Sal­tory which is not going to help the verted individual?" asked Nouwen.
.. .Soviets
years and prest·nted an indirect vadoran civil strife had become "a democratic cause in Latin America lie answered with a story: l'hallcngt· to the Reagan ad­textbook case of indirect armed and elscwhcrt!. 
An old man noticed a scorpionministration's depiction of El Sal­aggression by Communist "Reforms that have been imple­
in the water trapped in some tree vador's left-wing insurgency as powers." mented are in serious jeopardy, continuedfrom page 1 
roots and as he attempted to free it, largely Soviet or Cuban inspired. labor and the popular organiza­
The memo asserted that "the the scorpion stung him. He per·munist delegations are attendingNot once in tht· 132 page docu­political direction, organization tions are being persecuted sisted and the scorpion continuedthe 26th session in the modernisticment did the authors mention and armingofthe Salvadoran insur· sccuted, Catholic activists are to sting him.

Kremlin Palace of Congresses.
Soviet or Cuban involvement. Rat· gency was coordinated and heavily being killed, the militarized right Is Nouwen said a passer-by hoi·Moscow has been awash with ban­her, the authors traced the roots of influenced by Cuba with the active in a very strong position, 9,000 lered at the man, are you crazy-­ners and decorations for a week inthe civil conflict to more than a support of the Soviet Union ... and lives have been lost, the guerrillas risking your life for an ungratefulpreparation for the congress, andcentury of econornic inequality other Communist countries." have become more legitimate, the animal?
legions of extra police have beenand generations ofrepressive rule. The draft report painted a dif­moderate opposition is in a Friend, said the old man, be­patrolling the streets.
The document, written two ferent, and more complicated, desperate predicament, and we cause it is the nature of the scor­Most of the policy matters to bemonths ago by thrc:-c Univc:-rsity of picture ofthe situation. have not made more friends in El pion to sting, why should I give upapproved at the session have al­
Enrique A. Baloyra, one of the Salvador. ready been cleared by Brezhnev, North Carolina professors under my own nature to save? 
contract to the State Department, authors, said in an interview Friday "We still believe we meant well Nouwen said, "to us, who won­
74, and other leaders. The der why Vincent the comforteris part of a series entitled: that the true causes of El Salvador's hut should not we ask oursclvc~ congress is designed mainly for lived such an agonizing life Vin­"democracy In Latin America: civil strife were 50 years ofmilitary would it have been worse ifwe had 
prospects and Implications." A domination and the frustration of let the Salvadorans alone?" announcing and endorsing policy, cent says: Because it is the naturerather than making it, anddraft version wa.~ obtained by The democratic reforms. The report also said the military 
ofthe scorpion to sting why should Associated Press. Baloyra agreed that leftist na­dominates the reform-minnded delegates are expected to vote un­
animously in favor ofwhatever the I give up my own nature to save?" 
The report is criticized by some tions have supplied arms to the Christian Democrats in the current 
leaders propose. Members of CILA presented a 
government officials, who asked guerrillas, but said the claim of government. 
Western analysts will be looking gift of a basket of bread, wine and for anonymity. They statc:-d there strong Cuban influence over the "There are two governments in for these elements in the congress: flowers to Nouwen at the end of 
were disagreements over the insurgency "runs counter to the El Salvador," it said. "One attempts East-West issues: How Brezhnev the evening along with a plaque in document's neglect ofexternal in­
facts." to preside over civil society, and other leaders will explain the the shape of. a painter's palet in­volvement and its view of what The report details El Salvador's implcme!Jting the substance of a 
scribed with the "Lord's Prayer."l'onstitutes a legitimate history of social struggle against a reform program aimed to benefit decline ofdetente, with which the Nouwen gave a retreat thisBrezhnev leadership is closelydemocracy. .wealthy oligarchy that held nearly Salvadorans but without their 
weekend for CILA volunteers. The Salvadoran government, all political power and was backed active participation. 
identified. At the 1976 congress, 
Rev. Donald McNeill, CII.A ad­which succeeded the military by the army. "This second government when detente was blooming, 
visor and director ofthe Center for dominated regime of Carlos The document says the current monopolizes the effective powers Brezhnev cited with satisfaction 
Experiental Learning, said Romero in, 1979, consists of Salvadoran government employs of the state, depriving the first one "an improvement of the interna­
Nouwcn's talks and writings "have centrist Christian Democrats and violence against moderate a.~ well of any claim ofeffective control of tional climate." This year, he will been extremely helpful to Cll.A
have to defend Moscow's ap­conservative military officers. a.~ left-wing clements of the na­the affairs of the state. 
students over the past decade orproach to detente in the light of
li.S. officials said American sup­tion's opposition movement. "G'iven the nature of the policy two in deepening tbcir undt·r­
new East-West tension. 
port for tht· junta was based partly Church leaders critical of the agenda, which puts the question of standing of Christian t·ompassion on tht· belief that it was the best government were among those pacification on par with the reform Since 1976, the Soviet Union has and prayer." hope for a moderate solution to El killed in recent months. program, and given the interpreta­gained strong allies in Ethiopia and Salvador's problems, and partly on The report questions U.S. in-tion of the:-appropriate:-methodol-South Yemen. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Edltor-ln-Cblef. ..................................... Paul Mullaney Features Editor..... .........Molly Woulfe Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Editor..........................................Mark Rust Photo Editer ...............................................john Macor 

Editorials Edltor..............................Michael Onufrak Business Manager.... ...Grej~llc:dgcs
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the srudems of the 
Senior Copy Editor..................... Mary Fran Callahan 
University of ~<?tre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. h does not necessarily Executive News Editor.........................Tomjackman Controller.. ............................. .........jim Rudd 
reflect the pohctes of the administration of either instiruuon. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a News Editor ...............................................Lynne Daley Advertising Manager....... ...... Mark Ellis major~ty of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views SMC Executive Editor..........................Margic: Brassil Advertising Sales Manager.. .... Michael MeSally 
!>MC News Editor......................................Mary Leavitt Circulation Manager............................Belh Hackett
of thetr authors ..Column SJ.>ace is available to all members of the community, and 
Production Manager.......................... .john McGrath
the free expression of varymg opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Sports Edltor...........................................Bc:th Huffman 
The Observer ----Monday, February 23, 1981 -page 6 





Veryfewbeerdrinkers can pass thistest 
. Canyou? 
. ··:~'~"'' ···~~ 
../" 
If you can taste which beer is which, you know beer every which way. 
Three major premium beers have three different tastes. But if you can taste that Bud is Bud, Miller is Miller, and Schlitz is Schlitz-blindfolded­you are probably in the top 
··.:::.·...
10% of expert beer tasters. IJke to test your taste? Then, on with your 
blindfold. 
The Master Brewer decides. 
The Master Brewer determines how a beer will 
taste. Brewers are constantly adjusting, experi­
menting, improving their beers. For example. 
Schlitz. Threeyearsagoa MasterBrewercame 
over to head up Schlitz. For 40 years Frank 
Sellinger had brewed some-of the best 

The last word is yours. 
To Frank's taste, today"s Schlitz is The perfect beer is the smoothest beer you can buy. the beer that tastes But taste for yourse1f. Your perfect-to you. decision is what counts. 
Have a friend pour all three beers into identical glasses and label them 1, 2 and 3. Now you taste and identify each beer. Whether you guess all three brands right. or all three wrong, you'll know which tastes best to you. Don't be surprised if it"s not your brand. To get a better picture of each beer's taste, rate its flavor -~ characteristics from 1 to 10 on the scale at the right. 
'·"""\' 
What makes beers taste different? 
Hops are a major factor. Too much hops can make a ~ beer bitter. Too little leaves it bland. Barley malt is important, too. It gives a beer "body" and adds a mellowness. The balance J) of the two is what makes a beer taste smooth. 
's Schlitt. 
. , 


, 1 ~orat. ~ 

~~ . 




The_flbser:ver_______ _________________ 
, 



~c:.cJlC3l~==========================M==o=nd=a=y=,F=e=b=ru~~==-2=3=,=1=98=1===p=a=g=e~7 
Molarity Michael Molinelli Campus
M..\I'IIN4 you~ 1\NAJ(J,Jt,L. BID R>~ ~T .BoPf PR~J)DJTr 
WHAr co Yoc.J ~ol'£ "T'o •6 p.m. -roundtable discus­
AG~ISVE? sion, "someone In my family drinks too much ( effets of drinking on the family)", 28 ho­ly cross hall, smc 
•7:30 
p.m.-cinema, "the little foxes", annenberg aud., snlte museum of art, J 1 

•s 
p.m. -performance, gil­scott heron, music and poetry, memorial library auditorium, 


...
sponsor: black cultural arts fes· tlval 
•s p.m. -convocation, fresh­man honors program, en: 
._.,. 
auditorium learning. 


Garry Trudeau 


.ATIEA5TI 
HOF'e/T /8.. IU&U 9/3& •. 

ACROSS 30 A Flynn 57 Church 19 Shakespeare 1 -dacapo 32 Knack official king 5 Labels 33 Ordinary 59 Impish 21 Florida

The Daily Crossword 
9 Brief light language 62 Not openly city 14 Give tempo­35 Speak announced 25 Missile rarily Imperfectly 65 Display, Ina game 15 Pointed 39 Stay away for short 27 Large-arch from 66 Firma or mouthedjar 16 Right-hand 43 Old Norse cotta 28 Construct 
page poetry 67 Silent 29 Wrathy 17 El-collection 68 Arabian 31 Pull up, as 18 Worn-out 44 Vietnamese port a horse 
vehicle capital 69 Earl of 34 Hawaiian 20 Gush forth 45 Wlnecask Avon and Island 22 Ballots 46 Panama family 36 Butt In 23 White House Canal dam 70 Fencing 37 Deertall 
nickname 49 Attacks sword 38 Cages 24 Dull-gray 51 Electric 71 Note 40 Messenger 26 Battery power unit 41 Shortly 
electrodes 54 Peril DOWN 42 Slight 28 Poisonous 56 Hush-hush 1 Mountains color vapor group 2 Harvest 47 Betel palms 3 Weather-48 Relate
Friday's Puzzle Solved proofed 50 Rarely
4 loves 51 Critical 
greatly 52 Dug for 5 Rocky hill coal 6 Amaryllis 53 Military
plant chaplain 7 Become 55 Mountain Irate ridge8 Paving 58 Notre-stone 60 Mosque 9 California prayer

city leader 10 Rent 61 Taboo 11 Pungent 63 Piscivorous 12 Wager bird 
2/23/81 
13 Wants very 64 Scottish
©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved much river 

Eizenstat critiques Reagan plan 
'WASIIINGTON (AJ>) -Stuart Eizenstat, till" ardtltet·t of .Jimmy Carter's domt·stic program, is wah:hing with a kind of reluctant admiration as tht· Rt·agan ad· ministration st·eks to dismantk much ofwhat Carter trkd to huild. 
The plan for unprt·<.·edt·nted hudgt·t cuts and incomt· tax rt·duc­tions prt·sentt·d to Congress last week is a "fundamt·ntally fncorren policy that n·distrihutes int·ome upward," Eizenstat said in an inter­vit·w. 
But ht· addt·d, "I think that given whert· tht·y wt•re coming from, tht·y have portrayed It in a skillful way and given it a better dtance than it would otherwise have." 
The former pn·sidential advisor, who surrenden·d a White Uouse office furnished in antiques for the temporary austerity of a cub­hyhole at the Brookings Institution with a green vinyl lun<.·hroom chair and a folding tabk for a desk, ticked off the new administration's proposals like a damage report: 
"UDAG ( Tht· Urban Develop· ment Action Grant Program) was a Carter Initiative and in many respe<."ts the centnpicce ofour ur· ban poOcy ... Tht· program a~ we know it probahly won't exist. 
"liDA (The Economic Develop· ment Administration) was also a centerpiece of the urhan program and a seed of the reindustrializa­tion program we were trying to develop for a S<.'cond tt·rm. Gone ... 
"The concepts we worked on in tht· areas of National llealth ln­surann·, welfare rdimn and othn thing.~ we had hopt·d to ac­complish in a srcond term art· 



The Observer Moqday, February 23, 1981 -page 8 

/ ...leers 
-
The winning goal came at 12:06 with Notre Dame two men short due to some overaggressive play on the parts ofJoe Bowie and Mark Doman. Colorado's Bruce Aikens, fourth leading scorer in the WCHA, blistered a shot from the point that caught ]he upper right hand corner ofthe net. 
Notre Dame maintained pressure from then on, but couldn't manage to get anything by the suddenly invinceable Struch, who stopped 46 shots in all. Tough way to lose? It's damn tough, Coach Lefty Smith comented, The kids really put forth the effort and you can't fault them. We must have had nine million chances. 
Saturday night provided more outstanding goaltending from Colorado College, as senior Tom Frame took over for Struch and held the Irish to just two goals. Colorado once again opened the scoring as Greg Whyte scored his first oftwo goals on the night w~en he tipped a shot from the point over an outmaneuvered McNamara at 4:16 of the opening period. 
The two teams seemed more in­
terested in pushing each other 
around than in scoring during the 
period as referee Kevin Fay was forced to send five players from each team to the penalty box to reconsider their sins. 
Dan Collard's hustling style finally produced a goal for the Irish at the 2:07 mark of the second 
period, as the junior winger fought offtwo Colorado defenders behind 
Interhall Standings 
continuedfrom page 12 

Notre Dame's Bill Rothstein then took things into his own hands at the 7:27 mark as he fired a rebound from a Rex Bellomy shot past Struch. Less than three minutes later, Rothstein returned to haunt Struch again as he emerged from a mad scramble in front ofthe net and poked a power play goal past the beleagured goalie to give Notre Dame a 2-1 lead. 
Mamcini tallied for the visitors to even it up at 17:38 when he broke across the Irish blueline and fired a shot between the legs of 
Notre Dame's John Cox that 
McNamara blocked, providing a rebound for the grateful Colorado player, who promptly lifted it into the net. 
The second period provided Notre Dame with many oppor­tunities to blow the game open but JeffBrownschidle was the only one to take advantage ofthese chances as he blasted a twenty-five foot slapshot past a surprised Struch. John Schmidt, Jeff Logan and Bel­lomy all had open shots from point-blank, but each was denied in turn by the cat-like Struch. 
Colorado evened the game at 3· 3 only 2:59 into the third period when Doug-Udster fired a slapshot from the point that deflected in off Notre Dame's Rothstein. The Irish were shorthanded at the time. 


CONSIDERING A LAW CAREER? A representative of 
SOUTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW ABA/AALSLos Angeles 
will be on SMC campus Tuesday, February 24 7:00 ~ 9:00 pm 
356 Madeleva Saint Mary's College 
Underclassmen welcome, as well as seniors 
graduate students. Applications 
will to be accepted during the spring. If you would like to learn more about the profession , the law 
school experience., and the application process, please join us for an informal meeting. 
Southwestern University School of Law has served the public. since 1911 as a nonprofit, nonsectarian education~ in~ti~ution. &luthwestem University does not di.scnmrnate on the basis of race color sex, religion, national or ethnic origin, ~handicap in connection with admission m the school, or in the administration of any of its educational, employment, financial aid, scholarship, or student activity programs. 
the Tiger net and managed to L...,______________________________, 
sweep the puck around in front of the net and behend Frame. 

d/•k 
Colorado bounced back to take Man t ova wins tourneya 2-1 lead only. two and one half minutes later on a goal by Kurt Steinbergs. Steinbergs was just 
HOUSTON (AP)-Top-seededhanging out in front of the net Hana Mandlikova of Czechos­when the puck suddenly slid lovakia beat a determined but in­directly out to him and he fired it experienced Bettina Bunge 6-4,through a maze of bodies, beating 6-4 Sunday to win the $100,000McNamara, who was screened on Avon Championships of Houston.
the play. 
Mandlikova, the ftfth-rankedThere were a couple of.lengthy 
woman tennis player in the world,delays in the second period. First, a trailed 4-3 in both sets butnumber of workmen had to do bounced back to overpowerbattle with a piece of plexglass Bunge, playing in her first finals ofanext to the Notre Dame bench that major tennis tournament sincestubbornly kept leaning out of it's 
joining the pro circuit two years See ICERS, page 9 ago. 
MEN'S RAQUETBALL DOUBLES Hatfield ( 1212) Butler ( 1210) vs. Wagner, Atwell ( 1462) Regali ( 1654) Power (6718) vs. Pierce, Pfeu ( 1424) Meakin, Campbell ( 1161 ) vs. Bras­sard (232-2578) Onufrak (233· 6891) 
WOMEN'S RAQUETBALL 
DOUBLES Schmid, Robinson (3352) vs. Gal­lagher, Hartman (6877) Lara, Hereford (277-8757) vs. Mul­ler, Hanson ( 7915) 
INTERHALL HOCKEY STANDINGS 
NORTH Off-Campus 4-0 Stanford 2-0 Grace 2-1-1 Keenan 1-1·2 Flanner 1·2·1 Zahm0-2 Cavanaugh 0-4 
' 

..!11_ .SOUTH>ct:>~k Holy Cross 4-0 Dillon 4-0 Alumni 4-1 Morrissey 3·2 Pangborn 2-1 Fisher0-3 St. Ed's 0-4 Sorin 0-4 
CLUB LEAGUE BASKETBALL STANDINGS AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Marketing 5·1 Beta Alpha Psi 4.1 AFROTC A 3.1 
~********************************~
I*
* 
, * ~ FRESHMEN *
*t 
interested in the 
* 
~ COLLIGI Of BUSIIIISS 
* 

~ ADMIKIS!B.A!IOII * 
* 
* 
. . d d lk d

* 
are 1nV1te to atten a ta an


* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
! * ~ 
* * 
~ 
* 
~ 
*
* 
d' . *
Jscuss1on* 
*
* 

-~ period by rather David Tyson, c.s.c., ~ 
* * 
* of Sophomore Year *
* Director the * 
* * 
* * 
~ in the College of Business Administration. ~ 
* * 
* * 


I** ** 
~ MOIIDAY fiB. 23 BOOM 122 ~ 
* * 
* * 
* Hayes Healy Center * 
* * 
* * 
* *
* 7:30 p.m. * 
* *
* * 
* * 
i********************************* 
Rook & Euchre 2-1 Rugby 2-2 Army ROTC 1-4 AFROTC B0-2 ACS The Bricks 0-5 
NATIONAL LEAGUE Sailing 2-0 The Ombudsman 4-1 NROTC Blue 3·1 D.C. Club 3-1 Glee Club 1-2 NROTC Gold 1-3 Geology 1-3 Student Managers 0-2 Biology0-2 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
STANDINGS Lewis6-0 Farley I 5-1 Farley II 5· 1 Lyons II 4-2 Breen-Phillips 4-2 Badin 3·3 Off-Campus 2-4 Walsh 1-5 Lyons I 0-6 Lewis II 0-6 
GRAD SCHOOL BASKETBALL 
STANDINGS History 5-0 Mossback 3·1 MBA-2 3·1 Legal Supremes 1-0 Philosophy 1-1 Psychology 2-3 Cope and the Hackers 1-2 Chemistry 1-3 Economics 0-2 MBA-1 0-4 
Mandlikova, favored after top­seeded Tracy Austin withdrew be· cause of a back injury, used fiery serves, tricky drop shots and a power-packed backhand to win the $22,000 ftrst prize from her 17­year-old, Swiss-born opponent. 
Bunge, a German cizizen and former Peruvian national cham­pion, took $1 1,800 for her efforts. 
.£!oops 
continuedfrom page 12 
shots," explains the former Maril­lac High School standout, who also grabbed a team high 8 rebounds. "And I don't think I'm in awe ofthe good teams anymore. We tried to put the fact that they were rated sixteenth nationally out of our minds." 
Junior Tricia McManus chipped in 8 points for the Irish, and she and teammate Shari Matvey both 'garnered 7 rebounds. 
The Cavaliers were led by 5-10 
. junior Meli-ssa Mahony's 18 points on a 9-for-14 effort from the floor. Also in double figures for Virgina was 6-4 guard Linda Mitchell, who pumped in 13 points. 
Notre Dame, now 9-14 after weekend losses to Michigan and Virginia, will travel to Michigan State next Thursday. 
....,_ROCCOS--1 
men's and women's · hairstyling 
at comfortable prices 531 N. Michigan 233-4957 

The Observer 
In 3 events 
Tracktnen qualify for tneet 
By MATI HUFFMAN 
Sports lf'rita 
This past weekend the Notre Dame indoor track team l(Ualit1ed for the NCAA championships in a third event and missed qualifying in a fourth by six one-hundreths of a second. The Irish ran in the an­nual Central Collegiate Con­ference meet in Ann Arbor, Michigan. 
"The kids ran very well," a very pkast·d head coad1 Joe Piane. Piane had reason to ht· pleased as he saw his distance medcly relay team smash the school record of 
9:49 with a 9:44 ..~ perti>rmann·. 
Though this squad finished st·cond in the race, to Bowling Green, tht·y still qualitkd for the NCAA's. Rick Rogers ran the half mile leg of the race in I:54.r, Jacques Eady the 440 in 4H. S (a pt·rsonal indoor best), Tim Macauley the three-quarter in 2:59.0, and Chuck Aragon the anchor mile in an incredible 4:00.24. 
The inaugural performance of the squad has given them the sixth best time in the nation and left many wondering how soon it will ht· hl'forc Aragon breaks the proverbial 4:00 minute harrier in the mile. The senior co-captain did not run this weekend in the in­dividual mile hut will this weekend at the Illini Classic. He has already qualified for the championships in the: mile and in the half mile. 
The two mile relay squad ran 7:33.06, again placing second to the Falcons of B.G. The qualifying time is 7:33.0 and the squad will have only one more chal)ce, next week at Champaign. Individually, Rogers ran a split of I :'i4. S, Macauley a I:S2.S, Jim Moyar a.. 
I:54.5 and Aragon a I:SO.O 
The Irish boasted a number of other placers which enabled Notre Dame: to finish eighth in the prcs­tigous sixteen team tlcld. 
Steve Dziahis ran a 1: I I.9 in the 600 yard dash, good for a third place and just a second and a half from qualifying for the NCAA's. Paul Jorgensen al:.o.IWon third pice finish in the triple jumpwith a 41:!-1 effort. 
Jorgensen, a freshmen from Denmark, also placed in tie for sixth with junior Mike Noland. Both jumpers cleared the bar at a height of 14-6 
Rob McGary placed sixth in the shot heaving the sixteen pound cannonball 52-3. Andy Dillon ran 
9:05.0 in the 2-mile, good for a 
Belles lose close one 

By DAVE WILSON 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's entertained Divi­sion II powerhouse IllPlJ-In­dianapolis Friday night at Angela Athletic Facility, and just fell short ofa last second upset, losing 66-64. Thl· game was the final regular season contest for the Belles ( 13­
10 ), who will now he tr<:ated to a titll week ofpradice before the: dis­trict tournament at Il!Pll-Fort Wayne next weekend. 
"We weren't in the game until the second half'. said Saint Mary's lwad coach Jary Dallessio. "I was happy with the way we came hack after halftime though. If we could play that well for a whole game, the district tournament would he no ptohlcm." 
Anyone who saw Friday night's game might wonder just who the Belles were playing, lUPll· Indianapolis, or a 6'0" freshman namt·d Judy Cummings. With 36 points, 23 in the t1rst half, Cum­mings was virtually flawless against the Belles. 
"She (Cummings) has the quick­est shot ofanybody we've seen this season", Dallessio commented. "We overplayed her when she had tht• hall, but you can Sec it did no good. A player who shoots like she docs just can't he stopped sometimes." 
It was Cummings who madt• the 
final buckets for Indianapolis to 
preserve th.t· victory. The Belles 
fought back from a 43-34 halftime 
margin to gain a one-point lead at 
5 I-SO with I I: I 7 remaining in the 
game. The play then went back and 
forth all the way to the buzzer, 
when Anne Armstrong's despera­
tion jumper fell short of sending 
the game into overtime. In­
dianapolis appeared to dominate 
the game, with strong, aggressive 
defense, and a number of break­
away lay-ups, hut the statistics tell 
the rca t I story. The: teams com­
mitted equal numbers of fouls and 
turnovers, and in fact, converted 
the same number of field goals as 
well ( 29 ). The scoring difference 
came at the free-throw line. Saint Mary's converted six of seven for 1:!6/, while Indianapolis made eight ofthirteen for 62/. Both teams shot just below 50/ for the game. 
Maureen King led a balanced scoring drive for the Belles with 1 7 points, while Anne Armstrong finished with 12, Mary Pat Sit­lington and Gretchen Meyer with H, Kim Works with 7, and Tracee llargreaves with 6. Lisa Schirz added two, and Maureen O'Brien came off the bench with four points and some effective playmak­
ing. Besides Cummings, In­
dianapolis had one player with 13 
points, but no other with more 
than S points. 
"We're ready for the post-season 

tournaments," concluded Dalles­
sio. "If we can get through the dis­
trict competition, we have the~ ~.~ 
potential to do very well at state." 
.. .leers 
continuedfrom page 8 

frame:. Aftn a short delay the 
plexiglass was subdued. In a more 
serious vein, referee Kevin Fay 
caught an accidental elbow in the 
face from John Cox that managed 
to break his nose. Fay retired from 
the game and was taken to the 
hospital immediatelv. 
The eventual winning goal was scored with only 4:09 left in the game as Ron Reichart of Colorado deflected a shot past McNamara. The Irish pressed Colorado from then on, but two penalties in the last three minutes of the game led to two easy empty net goals that provided the final S-2 margin. 
The two defeats pushed Notre Dame's record to 12-20-2 overall and a sad 8-17-1 in the WCHA. Minnesota-Duluth also lost twice this weekend, so going into the final series of the season next weekend, Notre Dame is one point out of the eighth and final WCHA playoff spot and needs a tremen­dous showing in that series next weekend against Wisconsin. 
sixth place. Fellow freshman Ralph Caron was right behind, however, with a 9:05.9 
In the final event ofthe meet, the mile relay team of Eady, Dziabis, Aragon, and Macauley placed sixth with a time of 3:20. 
David Lee of Southern Illinois University was named the out­standing performer for meet. Lee won both the 300 yard dash and the high hurdles while leading his team to a second place finish. 
The meet was won by Michigan, followed by S.l.U., and then the Broncoes of Western Michigan. 
The Irish next travel to the Ilni­verstiy of Ilinois this weekend t ti.>r the Illinis Classic before coming home on March 6 against a fine Northern Illinos team. 



medical &osteopathic students. Tuition SuppliesAcademic Fees $485 per month 
Text Books 
For information call Capt. Sam Redding or MSgt. Bob Reese Air Force Health Professional 
Where does science fiction end and reality begin? It's all in the mind's eye. Be it the creative imagination used to produce Star Wars, The Black Hole, and The Empire Strikes Back, or the more scientific approach of hypothesis test­ing and experimentation, the distant galaxies of science fiction coalesce into reality with the advanced technology now being developed at a company called TRW. 
It was the Defense and Space Systems Group of TRW who mpde possible the Viking Lander biological experiment which looked for life on Mars and the High Energy Astronomical Observatory which looks for quasars, pulsars and black holes in deep space. Profession­als at TRW-DSSG are now involved in such impressive technologies as high 
Procurement Office 
317-269-6164 
CALL COLLECT. 
energy lasers, communications systems, plus other future projects still consider­ed science fiction. 
A company called TRW will be on campus... 
FEBRUARY27 
to interview graduates in scien­tific and technical disciplines. 
Contact the placement office to sche­dule your appointment. If unable to meet with us, send your resume to: 
College Relations Bldg. R5/B196 NO· 2/81 One Space Park Redondo Beach, CA 90278 
DEFENSE AND SPACE 'SYSTEMS GROUP ENERGY SYSTEMS GROUP 
• 

--------------~------· -­
Monday, February23, 1981 -page 10
The Observer 


B.D. 57 
U. Va. 56 
Another Typical lfotre Dame 
Miracle 
Photo Essay by John Macor 


~~(),.tSclJ==~='=·=~~=============================M=o=n=d=~='=Fe=b=ru~~==2=3,=1=9=8I===p=ag=e=I~I 
by Thl' Ohsem'r and Thl' AJJoaiJtcd Pn.r.r 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Fencers Jimmy Connorswon the first set easily, then rallied from were in action at Michigan State on Saturday. The men's team won 0-4 to defeat Ivan Lend! in a second-set tie-breaker and win the both of its matches, defeating Michigan State 23-4, and edging Ohio Sl7S,OOO Grand Marnier-ATP Tennis Games, 6-3, 7-6, Sunday. State 14-13. Captain Greg Armi was S-0, raising his season record to 
k
24-7. Sal Muoio was 4-1 for the day, upping his record to 24-S. The men's record is now 16-0. The Notre Dame women defeated Michigan State by a score of S-4. The women are now 13-l on the season. The Saint Mary's fencers defeated Michigan State 6-3, and now have a 12-2. record. The Notre Dame tennis teamopened its season 
this weekend with a pair of convincing victories at the Marquette Triangular Tournament in Milwaukee. The Irish trounced the host Warriors as 'well as visiting Wisconsin-Oshkosh by identical 9-0Johnny Miller, who won 19 professional events and then scores. In addition to enjoying a successful trip, in the win column, thevirtually disappeared from the winner's stand for four years, captured 
team enjoyed the gracious hospitality ofthe local Notre Dame club.
the S300,000 Glen Campbell Los Angeles Open Sunday by two strokes with a record 270. Miller shot a 68 in the final round to edge Tom 
Observer

Weiskopffor the championship and break the old tournament record of 272 set by Hale Irwin over the Riviera Country Club course. 
The Notre Dame swimmingteamcoasted to a pair of victories Saturday as the Irish trounced Ferris State, 72-41, and host Nothern Illinois, 63-48, in a double-dual meet. Dennis Stark'sAmy Alcotthit six birdies Sunday for a five-under-par 67 and 1980-81 team became the second winningest in Irish history, improv­a one-stroke victory over defending champion JoAnne Carner in the 
Classifiet/s

ing its season record to 9-2. Only the Il-l 1974-75 team posted moreSI '50,000 Bent Tree Ladies' GolfClassic in Sarasota, Florida. 
tVictories. 


lassifieds 
LOST: A T.l. calculator, probably I NEED A AIDE TO EMTSBURG, RYAN IS A TWO-FACED CHAA­Scunge Control, 
MARYLAND (MSM COLLEGE) LETAN
around South Dining Hall. Please PERSONALS Since you are not a man it
OR GETIYSBG. PA. ANYTIME.
call Ann. 8163. 
doesn't matter that I came where

JOE 1142 I think you misspelled charlatan. 
·········· ................................. . 
every other man had been before. 

OFIES~;IOI~AL TYPING. Term FOUND: An off-white glove at 'the .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . ... . . ' ' ' .. . INSTANT CASH PAID FOR 
besides Jill liked it. theses. etc. Tape ACC after the UCLA game. Ann NEED AIDE TO PITTSBURGH CLASS RINGS, $20-$85 OR DearTeri, ---Scunge Man ion. Last year's same 8163. AREA THURS. FEB. 26 OR FRI. MORE. WE MAKE HOUSE Happy 21st to one unbelievably All work guaranteed. FEB. 27. CAN OFFER RETURN CALLS. 255-2402. nice person! Meet you out on the 
VoteDon Dirt"TillarUMOCilhis 

automattc solutions. LOST: Tl 58C CALCULATOR IN TRANSPORTATION. CALL TIM streets for a wild celebration. 
Jackie Pagley, face doesn't get you his per­
NORTH DINING HALL ON 8933 Pam 
surviving sonality will. Paid for by the Com­Ito1Wo81. CALL KAREN AT 1263. ·······••·······•••••······•··········•·•·•••• Congratulations on P.S.--Cheer up ... 
yet another year unharmed. May mitee to elect Tillar 
ND-SMC STUDENT WHO Heading to PHILLY with room for 
you continue to do so and
BEEN ANOREXIC AND LOST: STAINLESS STEEL Two? We'll gladly share ex­Mary Wilson. 
provide us with physical and Pull,
BE WILLING TO TALK PARKER PEN .. WITH SENTIMEN­penses. Please call 8280 or 8281 Happy B-day to a great roomie! 
mental enlightenment for many Watch where you're spraymg
IT CONTACT PROF TAL VALUE.. IF FOUND PLEASE anytime. Pam 
decades to come. that repellent. II hurts my eyes.
6585 OR 4585, MWF. CALLB882.. 

Scoop Zopper
2 RIDES NEEDED TO So. Mary Ellen Wilson, DON'T WALK ALONE !II LOST: one LEACH raquetball FLORIDA FRI. 13 MARCH. WILL Happy Birthday and keep going 
JANE-0. To Erin's ex-husband. 
GET AN ESCORT !II racket... brown... if found please SHARE DRIVING, EXPENSES. for the gusto! You have a good
WHY DO YOU HATE SCOOP? You really have a great body.
Escort Service-On-Call call B882.... after 11 :00. CALL 1487 ....................................................... start! 
Some say love, it is a river ... " Ask 
.,.

Thurs. 7 to Mtdnight. Call HOW FAA CAN $6 SEND YOU? Love. Jill Ann her, (please) I
(OBUD) At the ND Library 10 LOST: Georgetown jersey last ALL THE WAY TO NEW OR­Love,
:45 pm. All student Volun-Thursday in ACC Fieldhouse. If LEANS! SMC SENIOR CLASS To the slez" and the ·fox" of
FOR SALE 
Your Cook 

found, C!JII Jeff 8644. PRESENTS A SUITCASE PARTY I room227, 
FEB. 26 AT LEE'S. CHECK POS­Congrats on all your ad­Q: Who was the greatest chilo Found: 1 pair of Keys; 3 keys on For Sale: 1980 Raleigh Super TERS FOR TICKET LOCATIONS. ventures. Keep up the good prodigy of the Yukvn? nng at Rockne Gym. Phone 1487 Grand Prix bicycle with new ......................... record. A: Wolfgang Amadeus Mooseartl 
to identify. Brooks seat. $250 or reasonable EVEN A ROOM IN MOTEL 6 Love always, Beanne. (Hi, Kathy. To Geoffrey Chaucer sold. searched. offer. Call 232-6433 after 10:30 COSTS $11 .95! SECOND PRIZE -yes, I know about the rock sin­BOOKS Tues-LOST: BLACK WALLET AT THE p.m. or write to Owen Lippert. SENDS YOU TO THE SENIOR ANNE FINK and MARY BETH ger who has never been in the 
2-6. 1027 E. Wayne A.C.C.. THURSDAY, FEB. 19. Dept. of History. Campus. FORMAL. SMC SENIOR CLASS STERLING BOOKSTORE GOD­Yukon.) south of Eddy­REWARD IF FOUND. CALL 232· SUITCASE PARTY AT LEE'S FEB. DESSES: Moose Control " tnlersectton) 0760. 26. Don't say you never get your 
II can't be long 'ttl Mother Moose 

TICKETS names in the paper!!! nursery rhymes! LOST: GOLD BENAUS LADY'S HAPPY BIRTHDAY JULIE OL.IN: The Rookie rgency loans for ND stu­WRISTWATCH IN LIBRARY AUD. .............. .......... GEA ........... .. .......... 
Dave: congrats on helping make $20-$200. One percent ON 2-16. IF FOUND. PLEASE I NEED MANY DAYTON TIX, STU­REX Does any one know what kind of Scoop's crew 'Paper of the 
Due tn one month. Open CALL TERESA AT 2156. DENT AND GA--PLEASE CALL drugs Jim Fetder is on? 
Week" staff! (personal by Rachel 30-12.30. M-F tn the basement BETH AT 1715 OR 277-8037. Four years in Notre Dame? Why 
Blount. ol course)LaFortune Ftnal day for ............................................. not buy a house and live almost HI, MR. STUD!!! 
................................... . 

to apply ts Friday. March Need many Dayton tix-GA and rent free. Let your equity pay your Tuesday: Vote DZIMINSKI 
FOR RENT 
STU. Call Monica at41-5154 rent. Call Motts at House of Realty TO THE TALL BLOND GUY WHO 
BUNKER 

for details. 289-7966 or 674-8512 STOPPED BY MY 4TH FLOOR BURNS
evenings. LYONS ROOM ON V-DAY: SOR­
MONEY for your Dayton GAs and CLARKFOR RENT · UGLY DUCKLING RY I MISSED YOU. I'D LIKE TO
student tix. Call Andy 8368 Jr. Class Offtcers RENT-A-CAR FROM $7.95 A DAY 
Ann Landers says: MEETYOU!K. AND 7 CENTS A MILE. PHONE Hey Jethro, 
Have a problem? Can't sleep?259-UG L Y FOR RESERVATIONS. NEED STUDENT OR GA'S FOR How 'bout another plate of
Can't work?Can't? Killed anyone To the four taybirds: Here's your 
DAYTON. CALL BRIAN TUCKER steaks and chtcken? You Bodtne. 
recently? Constipated? Fall second straight ud-up! Bo 
For next school year, furnished 234-0711 LEAVE A MESSAGE! you!!! Hartz ltves no more; tong
BOOK SALE on all theology down and go boo-boo? ................. science tttles. Used bks. houses, walk to campus. 277-Well, all you have to do ts GET BOSTON CLUB is sponsoring a ltve Jethro! 
3604'o 288-0955 NEEDED!! 2 DAYTON GA TIX
off or 2 for 1 used price. COUNSELING! SPRING BUS leaving MAR. 13.
FOR PARENTS. GOOD $$$. Frannte,
20 % off. PANDORAS Price is $tOO round trip. SIGN­
PLEASE CALL FRANK AT 8295. Chin up, Kiddo! Just remember 
937 S Bend Av 233-LONG ISLAND CLUB BUS for UPS in LaFortune TUES FEB 24 
.................. 'things always get worse before
Spring break, sign-ups on Tues­from 7-9. Bring Non-RefundableNEED 4 DAYTON TICKETS, GA they get better." You're due for
day, February 24 at 7:00PM. Little DEPOSIT of $50. Questions?? TON BUS for SPRING WANTED OR STUDENT. 232-0982 Theatre, La Fortuune. Must pay Call Mike 2836. BOSTON II lots of good fortune soon! 
.................................
SIGNUP TUES. 7-9 tn full amount when signing up. . L()~IJ-.YOur ro()!"1'EI
Need two Dayton GAs $$$ Jim
Bnng $50 Secret Pai"--CONGAATU LATIONS
277-0331 

. Call Mike 2836 tf any Stay at the lovely ABAD ABODE in same as it ever was Ever hear of attacking Winos? TOM KRUSE . 
.........................
Daytona Beach lor Sprmg Break. Or student affairs under the ND CLASS OF '85!!!
Need five Dayton GA's, call Chris 
Will provide free food and SPIRIT OF ST. LOUIS --SPIRIT Dome? Be on your guard I 
at x8619.

lodging at my home in Daytona if OF CAVANAUGI'toFAA LEY SMC FRESHMEN I you gtve me a nde (or will share Thanks to all our builders, ---ATTENTION CLEVELAND Thank you for your support ­
I desperately need GA tickets for
expenses and dnvmg). Call Greg dealers, nightly booth chairmen, CLUB MEMBERS!!!--· let's do it again! ...VOTE
the NO-Dayton game II Please call 
Abad 8101 South Bend Tribune photog­Sign-ups for the CLEVELAND MURPHY
Liza at1258. 

raphers, etc. --especially our BUS will be held in La Fortune on HOCTEA Desperately need ride to Dallas or booth Chief Pilot and Engineer, Tues., Feb. 24. from 6-7PM. Cost DRAKE
Help! Desperately need two GA's
any surrounding area (including Bob Schuler!!! will be $29 round trip. There is HUGHES
for Dayton. Name your price. Call 
Arkansas or Oklahoma) for WAYTOGOBOBII!I!II limited space so be prompt and for Sophomore Class Offtcers, on
Sue, 6777. 

spring break. Wtll share cost. signed, CAVANAUGH HALL BAING PAYMENT. Feb. 24 EYEGLASSES. AIMLESS, Mtchele41-5110 
Need 3 Dayton Tickets GA or Stu­
~AOWN CASE, 127 NIEUWLAND. OTIS ISGAOTEST Captain Axe enjoyed Prom Ntght. Dennis Durbin. Kevt~ "catiah~·~
dent. Call: Tom 234-1367. 
THURSDAY. CALL JOE Need ride to Springfield Ohio .................... ..... ................. .............. . and Jeff Bescher are three of the area on Feb 2Wo28. Will pay for NAZZ MUSIC COMPETITION -6 The red-headed poacher grows Greatest Guys in the world!
Wanted: Ttx to the Dead in 
gas. Call Rich 1421 March 1981 Application weary of the chase. I can feel it. How's that for a personal,
Chtcago. $$$$$$ call6718 
FRIDAY deadline Monday 23 February. Perhaps Moose Control is stron­guys?? SCARF Need ride to Dallas area lor Pick up applications in Student ger than I thought. I thtnk I know 
Need four Dayton tickets. Call To all you Domers, espectally the 
sprmg break. Will share ex­Union Office or at the Nazz. what is wrong with him. I believe 
Eileenat8042 three at Pangborn who would like 
penses. Call Rona at3704. .. . ' ' ' ..' ... . . . . . ' .' ' . . . . . . . he can be saved, even from the 
to meet her and the 6'2" one at LOST: MEN'S FUR LINED LEAT· 
SUE KLOSKOWSKI & BOB ·final offensive ... " 
I NEED 2 DAYTON GA'S. MY PangborR who she'd like to meet: 
GLOVES IN BP ON JUNIOR Need nde to Jersey for break. Will SCHULER: Love that airplane & Captain Axe 
LITTLE BROTHERS HAVE THEIR Today is the infamous Kathleen
supply necessities. Call Don Liberty statue! Now !hat Mardi
NTS WEEKEND CALL HEARTS SET ON GOING TO THE Murphy's (Murph) B-dayl Stop on 
6718. Gras is over you'll have to rest up D.T. alias B.K.
GAME. PLEASE CALL JOE AT before the true Mardi Gras comes I couldn't tell you about
8306. ELECTRIC TIMEX 
Need ride to Pittsburgh­along! Congratulations on a Job EVERYONE'S BOILERMAKER BLACK BAND, ON 
Morgantown area on March 4. I Well Done I because as you anq I both know,
I NEED 2-4 GA'S FOR DAYTON. Murphy!!
Y NIGHT AROUND want to see the Dead in Pitts. Call as well as every other N.D. mate,
Ask Ryan what places he slept in
CALL BOB AT 4641

QUAD. CALL KEN, 37i9. Don6718. Jill goes to U. of Cincinatli. 
this weekend. 

Monday, February 23, 1981 -page 12

~ports 
Irishupset No• !Cavaliers 
Last-second victory topples ACC leader 
By BETH HUFFMAN Ralph," said Virginia Head Coach Sports Editor Terry Holland, "only must teams aren't quite that big, or quite that 
ROSEMONT, Ill. -It has hap­good." pened once almost every year 
The two teams, displaying co(.. 
since Digger Phelps came to Notre legiate basketball at it's best,Dame in I97I: the host Irish have remained close in the initial half, upset either the defending national locking scores twelve times. It was champion or the current number­the Irish, on aJohn Paxson jumper, one ranked team in the country. 
who took the lead near the buzzer, Yesterday, the Rosemont Horizon 
30-28. was the scene ofanother patented The second half looked much
Notre Dame miracle as the Irish like a rerun of the first, as the na­
shocked the top-seated and un­tion's No. I and No. I I teams con­
defeated Virginia Cavaliers. 57-56. Orlando Woolridge, senior tri­tinued excellent play. The favored 
captain for the Irish, scooped-up a Virginia pulled ahead by as much loose ball with just three seconds as six midway through the period, remaining in the game and sank an but the never-say-die Irish fought 
off-balance, 16-foot jumper to back. spoil the Cavalier hopes. Woolridge, who joined Paxson Notre Dame's chances for a win with I2 points, tied the score at 53 looked dim just seconds before the 
with 4:05 remaining to play. Neit­her team was able to score until1
6-9 Woolridge's prayer shot as the 1
2:02 when the Cavaliers picked up
Cavaliers had not only the ball, but two points on a Sampson jumper
a one-point lead. Utilizing a five­on-four out-of-bounds press, the 
and then one more on a JeffJones Irish forced a five-second call on 
foul shot. Virginia's Lee Raker. Both Kelly 
Up by three points, Othell Wil-, Tripucka and Tracy Jackson at­
son committed a foul on the Irish tempted shots before Woolridge 
Ice Man -John Paxson. The 6-3 finally was able to score. 
Kettering, Ohio, native sank both "What other way would Notre 
charity shots to put the Irish back Dame win a game like this, but 
within one. with a shot like that," said Digger 
Bill Varner stole the Cavalier in­
Phelps. 

bound pass, but teammate_ Kelly"Thank God it went it," said 
Tripucka was called for travelingWoolridge, who added, "I had to 
before he could get a shot off. look at the referee to make sure it 
The Cavaliers then took the ball was good. It's the best feeling.I've 
out of bounds, setting up the five­ever had in may life. Without a 
second call and Irish comeback doubt it is the biggest win, the big­
win. gest shot for me." 
The win puts Notre Dame at 20­Anyone who turned out to the 
4 on the season while Virginia now game expecting to see "The Ralph 
owns a 23-I mark. Sampson Show" was disappointed 
IRISH ITEMS: Digger Phelps as the 7-4 Cavalier was held to just 
defied his own liberal substitution 10 points. On the brilliant front­
policy, playing Tripucka, Jackson. defense of Woolridge and the 
Woolridge and Paxson all 40 
combined efforts of centers Tim 
minutes each ... Tripucka led the 
Andree and Joe Kleine, the Irish 
Irish scorers with 15 whileJackson 
cnade it tough for the frustrated U. 
added 14 ... Lee Raker led the 
>/a. club to give the big man the 
losing cause with I 4 ... foul shots 
;>all. 

again made the difference in the 
"We double-teamed Sampson 
ballgame, as Notre Dame went 7-8 
and went man-to-man on Raker 
from the line versus 4-8 by the 
BY MIKE MCMANUS 
and Lamp," said Phelps, who is 
Cavaliers ... the game snapped Vir­
Sports Writer 
now 203-82 as an Irish coach, 
ginia's 28-game winning streak 
"then we went one-on-two with 
that stretches over two season :.. 
While most of the campus's at­
the othe t r two." 

the Irish host St. Francis this 
tention was centered on the bas­
"That's how most teams play 
Thursday at 8 p.m. in the ACC. 
ketball team's climactic victory 
ND women fall to No. 16 Cavs 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
AssistantSports Editor 

ROSEMONT, Ill. -The Notre ing they received from 13th Dame women's basketball team ranked South Carolina a few weeks experienced some more growing ago. 
pains yesterday afternoon at the "We played well against their hands of 16th ranked Virginia, ful­second team," offered DiStanislao.forND:KDKA ling by a 68-40 margin. "Their program is just about 3 or 4 "We knew they'd be tough, but years ahead of ours. But these we were prepared for them," of. games are still valuable experience 
Rowan signs 
KDKA-TV in Pittsburgh has con­
fered Coach Mary DiStanislao. for us." 
frrmed rumors printed in Satur­
"Defensively, we did allright, but The game marked a homecom­
day's Pittsburgh Post-Gazette that 
offensively we had problems." ing of sorts for both DiStanislao,
6-5 sharp-shooting guard Ron 
A dismal fourteen percent who coached at Northwestern 
Rowan was to sign an institutional 
shooting effort in the first half University, and Klauke, a native of 
letter of intent this morning with 
created the biggest problem for nearby Glenview, Illinois. 
Notre Dame. It was learned that
.. 
the Irish, who dug their way to a The 5·9 swingman, who leads 
Irish coach Digger Phelphs and as­
36-12 deficit at the halfway point. the Irish in the scoring depart­
sistant Tom McLaughlin were to fly 
Led by freshman Jenny Klauke's ment, has averaged 20 points in 
to Pittsbur~ this morning to 
18 point effort, however, Notre her last four contests.
receive Rowan's committment. 
Dame managed to stay even with ''I'm starting to take better
Rowan, a senior at Beaver Falls 
the Cavaliers in the second half,
H~ School in Pennsylvania, is 
preventing a repeat of the thrash-See HOOPS, page 8 
averaging over 30 points a game. 

Kelly Tripucka works for two of his game-high fifteen points againstjeffLamp in yesterday's classic clash. Notre Dame walked away' with another one of their miracles upsets ofa number one ranked team. (photo byjohn Macor) 
Still alive 
leers lose series 
over Virginia this weekend, Notrt: Dame's hockey tt·am managed to dig themselves into their deepest hole thus far. It could have been a good weekend, as the team came into it trailing eighth place Minnesota-Duluth by one point and seventh place Colorado Col­lege by three points. Two victories or at least one victory and a tie would have put the Irish in good position to advance to the playoffs. So much for what could have been, though, as third period Irish break­downs in both games led to a sweep of the series by Colorado College and has the glassy-eyed Irish down for the count. 
Friday night the Irish came out hitting during the first period and generally controlled play, firing eighteen shots on goal at Colorado College goalie Randy Struch while Colorado only managed to direct ten shots at Notre Dame's Bob McNamara. That dominance was not reflected on the scoreboard, however, as Bob Mancini put the Tigers ahead I -0 only two minutes and thirty-eight seconds into the game when he picked up the puck at the circle to the left of the Irish 
goal, moved across  the slot and  
tucked  it  behind  a  sprawled  
McNamara  

See ICERS, page 8 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
AssistantSports Editor 
ROSEMONT, Ill. -"I don't think it's a matter of mystique at all," insisted Virgina coach Terry Holland. It's just good, physical basketball with good players." 
Digger Phelps would take ex­ception to that statement, for he is not one to discount the power of tradition that· abounds in Notre Dame athletics. 
"I can't explain it to you -it just happens here," related an emo­tionally drained Phelps m(>menlts after his Irish added another 
miracle finishes. 
"Why it happens, I don't but we're the greatest institution I know of" 
"I've seen it happen so timt:s here," Phelps continued. football, in basketball...did I think we'd run out of today? Not at Notre Dame. place is spooky that '\Vay." 
Playing the role of spoiler becoming routine for D teams. Sunday's win marked eighth time in the last ten Notre Dame has upset either defending national champion the current number-one team in the country. Six of times, the opposition arrived in-arm with an record. But that's not the way left. 
True to form, the student predicted the outcome before terday's struggle even began. loyal partisans who made the subjected the Caviliers to chants "23 and 1" the moment Sa1npsor and company took the floor. 
"We are known for doing (breaking winning streaks)," claimed a jubilant Orlando ridge, NBC's Most Valuable of the game. "It happened quick," said the senior of the foot victory shot he canned 
0:02 showing on the clock. " like something I've rehear;;ed ning around in the backyard as kid. This is the best feeling ever had in my life. You know, didn't really take the shot I to take, but..." 
He didn't have to finish. 
Virginia coach Terry didn't find particularly Now that his club's 28-gamc ning streak has ended, somt:orte asked the Cavilier mentor if he thought getting the "monkey his back" before the NCAA tourna­ment would be beneficial to his ballclub. 
"Obviously we'd rather be un­defeated at this point," said Hol­land. "It was a tough game to lose. But we'll try to make something positive out ofthis. 
"All this season we have been able to put a win behind us and now I think we can put a loss be­hind us." 
Sportswriters couldn't resist as­king Phelps to compare this 57-56 victory with the 71-70 win in I974 that ended UCLA's 88-game win­ning streak. 
"No game will ever be like that one because it was a first," Phelps explained. "I told Terry Holland yesterday to enjoy this year ­being No. I and undefeated. Be­cause the second time it is not the same flavor. 'For us, the 1974 year...that was it. The only thing that could top it wouldbe the final game in Philadelphia." 
No Notre Dame fan could take exception to that statement. 








