
Y< JL. XVI. NO. _il 
SATUROAY, GCTOBER ~. 19tH
IheObseae 

Team morale high despite two losses 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame t(>Otball is a virtual stranger to failure. And Gerry faust is certainly not ac­t'Ustomeu to losing. So the capacity crowd on hand for Saturday's I :30 kick-off against Michi­gan Statt· will be anxious to sec how the 1-2 Irish pick up the pieces and rebuild. 
"I've told our players they have two choices," ~ays their t·oach Gerry Faust. "They can eithcr give up aftcr thosc two losses and st·ttlc t(Jr an avcragc scason, or they can get up off the ground and kn·p lighting. They can be thc comcha<.:k team of the year." 
llow the lrbh respond to events of the past two wcek~ will tell bust a lot about the l'haractn of his team, as both he and the playcr~ havc come undcr some sharp criticism this weck in papers across thc country, including The Obsen,er, after drop­ping two games in a row. 
"You havc to expect that after you lose," says junior co-captain Phil Carter. "But the team's attitude is very positive. We just want to go out and stop all the talk, just get a win un­der our belt." 
Any loss is tough, but last Saturday's 1 5-14 heartbreaker was especially devastating be­cause Faust feels the team made big strides from the Michigan contest. 
"The Purdue game was a tough, tough loss," 
he confesses. "But one good thing we diu was 
regain the intensity we didn't have against 
.'vtichigan." 
And that intensity is a must to beat a team 
like the Spartans, Notre Dame's third straight 
Big Ten foe. "They're quick, they're physical 
and they're well-coached. They always play 
well against the best teams, and they always 
get up for Notre Dame." 
A key to stopping the Spartans tomorrow will be containing quarterback.John Leister. The junior threw for 204 yards against the Irish a year ago in his college debut. Lt:iste t r boasts 553 yards in the air this season with Hanker Otis Grant and split ends Daryl Turner and Ted Jones his targets. 
"He's a lot like Purdue's Scott Campbell," says Faust. "He can make the big play by either throwing on the run or running himself." 
While the defense must do their part by preventing the big play, Faust says his offense has to start putting more points on the board. He promises the Irish will start to show more flare, once they've established a solid running game. 
"We ran different things at LSU because we felt we could surprise them," he explains. "But against Michigan, there were certain things we tdt we had to do. And at Purdue, there were certain things their defense did that limited us." 
"We'll open things up, but you've got to have the basics down before you do the tricky stuff." 
Faust will put the running game back in the hands of tailback Carter. He turned in a spec-
See EAGER, page 11 

Oliver and Anderson are playing for kicks 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Slowly but surely, Harry Oliver is closing in 
on most of Notre Dame's kicking records. His 
name has been mentioned prominently on 
various all-American lists. 
Less slowly, but no less surely, Morton An­
derson is becoming the most feared kicker in 
college football. He is on the verge ofowning 
all the Michigan State kicking marks, and a 
team of NFL scouts, assembkd by The Sport­
ing News, called him the nation's top place 
kicker. 
This week, the two will match up in Notre 
Dame Stadium, as the Irish take on the Spar­
tans. 
Oliver and Anderson have gone head-to­
head before, with the 5-11 Irish kicker coming 
out on top. His 4-4 performance last season in 
East Lansing was one of the only bright spots. 
in a lackluster Notre Dame victory. Ander­
son's only attempt ofthe game, a 29-yarder, 
was good, but he really didn't get a chance to 
show offhis talents. Nonetheless, Irish 
coaches are well-aware of his ability. 
"That guy is a real threat," admits head coach Gerry Faust. "He adds another dimen­sion to their offense." 
Spartan coach Frank "Muddy" Waters is well-aware of the abilities ofthe Struer, Den­mark native. You can't argue with the facts, and history has proven that Anderson pos­sesses deadly accuracy. 
"Morten is a threat to score for us every time we pas~ midfield," Waters says. "He has been simply sensational in all aspects ofthe game." 
Sensational may not be strong enough a word. Two weeks ago, in a game against Ohio State, Anderson got his name in the Big Ten record books by kicking a 63-yarder. The boot was just four yards shy of the all-time NCAA record. 
Over the course ofhis career, Anderson, who attended Indianapolis' Ben Davis High School on an exchange program, has hit 102 ofthe 105 extra points he has attempted. Still, he is far from satisfied. 
"I must become more consistent on field goals," he says. "That's 85 percent of my game." 
Actually, if he were to check his figures, it's more like half. As a matter offact, it's exactly half. Anderson has kicked 34 field goals, for 102 points. That, along with his 102 poims af­ter touchdowns, gives him a career scoring mark of 204 points, just 26 points shy of the MSU record held by fellow Dane Hans Niel­sen. 
Every Notre Dame fan has heard, by now the legend ofHarry Oliver, and the way his 51­yard kick into the win boosted Notre Dame to a miracle win over Michigan last season. Fewer know about the success enjoyed by An­derson in his only appearance to date in Notre 
Dame Stadium. 
With no time on the clock at the end ofthe 
first half, the Spartan placekicker booted a 53­
See KICKS, page 11 



Saturday, October 3, 1981 -page 2
The Irish Extra -Michigan State 


"Game of the Century" 
======================================================== '66 classic 
By CHRIS NEEDLES 
!;j}()rfs Writer 
"The game ofa generation"-New York Sunday News. 
"Tbe most nerve-wracking game that couldpossib~)' be played . .. a classic in tbe true sense ofthe zcord" -Detroit Free Press. 
"Why didn't you pass, Ara?"-Chicago Tribune. and others. 
The day was November 19, 1966, a little less than I 5 years ago. In that year, there were two No. I teams-Notre Dame and Michigan State, depending on which wire service poll one preferred. 
And, on a cold, dreary South Bend-like day. the two giants squared off in Spartan Stadium in East Lansing to decide who had rightful claim to the bcanstalk. 
Never before had a regular-season college football game captured the attention ofan entire nation like this one did. I 5 years later, it still remains the "game ofthe century." 
Spartan Stadium's capacity is 76,000, but a record 80,011 were squeezed in on this day. The media had it far worse, though; in a press box that was built for 210 reporters, 735 were packed in. On TV, 33 million people watched it on ABC (that, too, was a record). And in Plainville. Conn.. Our Lady of Mercy Roman Catholic Church even changed its normal Saturday confession time so as not to conflict with the end ofthe game. 
It was that big. 

The Irish, under then-third-year coach Ara Parseghian, were listed as four-point favorites, despite being the visiting team and being plagued by numerous injuries to key players. Starting quarterback Terry Hanratty had a separated shoulder, and star tailback Nick Ed­dy was also sidelined and unable to play. 
Despite being the underdogs, Michigan State jumped out to a 10-0 lead in the second quarter following a scoreless first period. A 42-yard pass completion from Spartan quar­
In lastyear'sMSUgame, Spartan quarter­Notre Dame's defensive line, led by Pat 
terback jimmy Raye to split end Gene Wash­
backjohn Leisterfinds the going rough as Kramer (right), forces a fumble. (photo by 
ington set up a 4-yard touchdown plunge by
jobnMacor) 

MSU: mixed memories for Carter 
By TIM PRISTER 
!>ports Writer 
Last year's game against Michigan State is one which Phil Carter would like to remem­ber -and forget. The junior co-captain broke Vagas Ferguson's single game rushing record on his 39th carry. However. iL was Carter's -lOth carry that not only cost him the record, but also some very valuable playing time. 
"I didn't even realize l had carried the hall that much let alom: rusht:d. for that many yards," said Carter. "They announced that l had broken the record while I was on sidelines after l had injured my leg." 
What Carter didn't realize was that the an­nouncement was actually incorrect since he had lost two yards on his final carry. 
"I wouldn't hl' telling the truth if! said l wouldn't like 10 break a few records. but I prefer to win. A lot of guys like to set goals for themsel\'cs. which b tine. But it doesn't make any sense to rush for all !hose yards and lose. In a case like !hat a record would be meaning­less." 
A I 000-yard season would have been vir· tually automatic had it not bl·en for the debilitating injury against the Spartans. Diagnosed as a bruise. the extent of the:: injury was considerably more severe than the simple word "bruise" indicates. 
"It was really strange because l walked off the tldd after the game," said Carter. "But when I woke up the next day.! couldn't move my leg. The swelling started up around the thigh and progressed down my leg to my ankle. It was three weeks before I could walk again." 
After missing the next four games, Carter appeared briefly against Georgia Tech and then resumed his heavy workload carrying 60 times in the next two games. 
"I like to carry the hall a lot," said Carter. "If the coach wanted me to carry the ball 50 times a game I would love it. But Coach Faust's offensive philosophy is different from last year. This year our offense is not based around one particularaspect. Teams have to be better prepared to deknse us because we show them more sets and formations. Consequent­ly, it's my job to be prepared when they call on me. since my role won't be as extensive. 

"Last year we didn't do anything fancy. we just ran right at our opponent. They knew our strength and it was simply up to the opposi­tion to stop us." 
"Coach Faust is really an incredible per­son." continued Carter. "He's M> enthusiastic and involved in the offense that sometime's he scares you. You wonder how long his en­thusiasm can last. hut it never stops. He knows the game and has a great awareness ofwhat to call in certain situations. There's always going to be second-guessing by the press but the team has confidence in him. The only second­guessing going on now is the second-guessing ofourselves, the team." 
Part of that varied offensive philo~ophy is the plan to usc the services ofGreg Bdl as well as freshman Chris Smith at tailback, thus keeping fresh. quick backs in at all times. 
"Greg proved himself when I was recover­ing froni a pulled hamstring earlier in the year. He had a great spring and it wouldn't have been fair to throw me in ahead of him when I recovered." 
Bell broke away from relative anonymity when he rushed for 50 yards against Navy, including a 27-yard touchdown romp. According to Carter, though. he knew Bell's capabilities. 
"Greg is a tremendous all-around athlete. He has great speed, he's a good basketball player and could pr(lbably be tough on a baseball diamond. We went fishing at the beginning ofthe year and he evei'l caught more fish than I did," joked Carter. 
"Chris is really going to be a good college tailback. Jiis combination ofspeed and strength makes him doubly effective. Last week he literally ran over two veteran defen­ders on one play.'' 
Carter attracted some attention ofhis own, 
rushing for nearly 2500 yards as a tailback at 
Woodrow Wilson High School in Tacoma, 
Wash!ngton. He was recruited heavily by srveral California schools and especially by the University ofWashington and the Univer­sity ofOregon. Yet it was Notre Dame's assis­tant head coach Brian.Boulac who helped sway his final decision. 
"All the schools out west had me spoiled,"said Carter. "They were constantly calling me and making these extravagant promises like telling me I would start as a freshman. 
"But !liked the challenge that :>Jotre Dame 
See CARTER, page II 
fullback Regis Cavender to put MSU up. 7-0. Later in the quarter, Raye's 30-yard gallop around end paved the way for a 47-yard tleld goal by the barefooted Dick Kenney, and State was up 10-0. 
Notre Dame struck back before halftime, thanks to the work ofa pair ofbackups. Haltback Bob Gladieux, who replaced Eddy. caugttr a 34-yard TD pass from quarterback Coley O'Brien, who was Hanratty's under­vLudy, to pull the Irish within I 0-7. 
In the second hal( the defense took contnil. Notre Dame's defense, led by all-Americans Jim Lynch and Alan Page, stopped Michigan State on every possession ofthe second halt while the Spartan defensive corps, keyed by 283-pound defensive end Bubha Smith. were nearly equal to the task. In all. the two teams t:ombined for 16 punts on the afternoon. 
On the opening play of the fourth quarter, 
ND'sjoe Azzaro booted a 28-yard field goal to 
tie the game at 10-1 0. In the late stages of the 
contest, Azzaro's bid for glory, a 41-yard field 
goal attempt with 4:41 left, sailed wide to the 
right, and the game remained deadlocked. 
The trouble is, all of the above has now 
been forgotten by most, ifnot all, who wit­
nessed the game. Unfortunately, all that is 
remembered ofthe "game of the century" arc 
seven insignilicant running plays in the last 
minute-and-a-half 
With I :28 to go, and the score still tied at 10, Notre Dame took over, following MSU's eighth punt, at their own 30 yard line. The Spartans put in sevt·n defensive backs, as they fully expected the Irish to pass in order to get into field goal range to pull out the victory. 33,080,744 other witnesses expected the same. 
Instead, Parseghian ran seven straight run­
ning plays, which gained a grand total of 11 
yards and one first down, but were enough to 
waste Michigan State's three remaining 
timeouts and the remaining 1 :28. "We didn't 
play for any tie," Parseghian said after the 
game. "Nobody likes ties. But we weren't 
going to give:: Michigan State a chance of win­
ning in the final minute." 
As the final gun sounded, many boos and calls of"chicken" rained down upon the Irish. "We started yelling at them, things like 'com~ on, sissies,"' said Bubba Smith, no sissy him­self. 
But it was Notre Dame who. in the end. had 
the last laugh. Besieged by criticism for a full 
week after their Michigan State "cop-out," the 
Irish took it out on Southern California the 
next Saturday, 51-0. and t~ventually were 
crowned National Champions in both polls. 
Today. though. it is the "game ofthe cen­
wry" that is remembered most about the 
1966 season. It was a game that featured stel­
lar defensive performances, media hysteria, 
and controversy, the likes of which have not 
been seen in the I 5 years hence. 
But, except for the controvl·rsy. the 
memory has all but faded away. 


Tailback Phil Carter discovers plenty of for a few ofhis 254 yards. See related story daylight in the MSU defense as be scampers at left. (photo byjohn Macor) 
Hunter -page 10
' ' ' 


VOL. XVI, NO. 31 an indept:"ndem student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's SATURDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1981. PAGE 3 
'Protect homeland' 
Reagan outlines strategic defense 
\'\'A~HINGTON (AP)-President Administration officials set the said. "We arc seeking a degree of Ht·a!(an. outlining a S I HO. ~ hill ion pricetag for "the whole thing, spare strength that will deter attack." design l()r shouldering Anll'ril'a's parts, bumpers" at sIHO. 3 billion The first batch of approximately 'tratq.:ic power "well into the next over the next six years, starting with 36 MX missilcs would be placed in century." called Friday for deploy­the tlscal year which began Titan and Minuteman missiles silos 
ment of I00 :\IX missiles, produc­Thursday. that would be strengthcned to resist tion of tht· once-scrapped B-1 Reagan said he hoped the destruction by improved . Sovict homhl'f and dcvclopmt:nt of a program would "prevent our adver· missiles. The: presidcnt did not spell supl'f-clusivt· Stealth aircraft. sarics from making the mistake out predst· locations, but there: are others have made and deeply Minuteman ~ites in North Dakota,
The pn:~ident rt·jecu:d the option 
regretted in the past -the mistake Wyoming and Montana. whereas the
of shuttling tht· yt.·t-undevcloped of underestimating the resolve and Titan is located in Kansas, Arkansas
;\IX among hundreds of "soft" 
the will of the American people to and Arizona.

'hdtt·s in Utah and Nevada. ln,tead. 
keep their freedom and protect their

he dcntkd upon placing many of homeland and their allies." The Titan II, a liquid·ti.Jclcd
tht• new ICB.'\ols in silos now ot·­lkagan called also fur beefing up missile decades
cupkd hy tht· aging Minuteman and nearly two old, ~evt·ral other areas of the nation's .would be phased out. The tlrst MXs, 
Tuan II mis~>ilc~>, located in the Mid· 
strategic force, including improve­solid-fudcd missilcs capable of
Wt'St and Wt·st. ments in tht~ B-52 fleet and con­carrying up to 10 warheads apiece
Tht· plan calls ti>r making the MX tinued production of at least one and purportedly faster and more: ac­
and an updated vt·rsion of the B-1 Tridem nuclear submarine pt~r year. curate than either the Titan or
opt:rational hy I 9H6. Reagan asked Secretary of Dc'fensc Caspar W. Minuteman, would likely be sta·
for produnion of I00 B-1 s, the Weinberger, who a<:companicd tionec..l at Titan sites in Arizona. 
homher which former President Reagan to the annoum:emnt, saidCarter rq:ardnlunnecessary. 
that wit~ut the new systems, "ifwe Reagan flatly dismissed the: plan
The Stealth, a radar-evading go on with a continually degrading for the 'shell-game" approach to MX
homlwr not yet olf the drawing system....then we would bt.• sub­deployment.
hoards, would ht· devclopnl for jected w a nuclear hla,·krnail or a
pn!t.luction in the I~J90s. kind of situation in which pcople The president said tJiat basing the
Tht· prt·sident said the program would throw up their hands and say missiles in holes in the wt·stt·rnwould "revitalize our strategic we: have no hope" and tht· president desert would leave them "just as vul­forces and maintain America's would not tolerate such a condition. nerable" as placing them in existing
ability to keep the peace well into In an atypicdl, subduedf'lShion, Geny Faust was still able to excite
"\'\'e are not sceking nuclear or silos that have not been hardened to
tht· next century." the crowd to afrenzy at last night'spep ral~)'. (Photo byjohn Mucor)
military supcriority," Weinbergcr withstand nuclear attack.
lkagan, in a nationally televised announcement, said it would dt:tcr any Soviet actions "directed against 
~~~~i~n~~:~~~lt~:oE~it{~~~~~:t~~~i~~~ 0 epresentatt.ves evade l·mmt·gratt.on polt.cy
ability to respond to further Soviet .1\J military growth. 
At the: same: time, he said it would "signal our resolve to maintain the stratq~ic balance ... the keystone to MARK BOENNIGHAUSEN and Diana Morris, a represenative made on types of rcfugces; they are rcfugces, noting that the suit will be any genuine arms reduction agree­NewsStajf from the State Dcpartmen.t, classified as eithcr political or hard to gct into court, as it lacks a ment with the Soviets." answered questions from faculty cconomic. specific plaintiff. 
"This is a stratc:gic program that The Thomas and Alberta White and students ofthe Law School. He added that a Human Rights America can afford," Reagan said, Center for Study of Law and Public Posner began the session by An economic refugee is one who complaint is being filed by his com· t.'alling it "a plan that will meet our Policy sponsored a question and presenting his view of the prt:sent tlees due to economic harship and mittt·e with the United Nations and vital st.·curity net.·ds and strengthen answer session at the Law Building United States immigration policy. these people arc not granted asylum, the Organization ofAmerican States. our hope~ ti>r peace." on the Reagan Administration policy Calling the new policy a Ms. Morris commented. Posner went on to criticize the 
Rt.·agan said any elements of his on immigration yesterday. "dramatic change". Posner went on Posner explained that a lawsuit is new program would be on the Michael Posner, a representative to describe the new program as a being filed on hehalf of the Haitian See REFUGEE, page 5 hargaining table in future arms talks from the Director Lawyers Commit-"step backward" in United States im· wuh the Soviet Union. tee on International Human Rights migration policy. 
Posner declared that political and 
Iran elects new president
strategic concers arc replacing those of human rights. His main point of disagreement 
under tight security
centered on the implementation of the new policy of"Interdiction." BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -Mil­oustedjune 22. 
With Interdiction. the State lions of Iranians, heeding Ayatollah The regime blames tht· attacks Department wiU have U.S. Coast Ruhollah Khumcini's command to tacks on the Mujahedecn Khal4, and Guard vessels intercept Haitian exercise their "divine duty," voted accused the Islamic-Marxist guerril· refugee boats of the Haitian coast. yesterday in an election to install a Ia group of launching a prc:-election 
Posner explained that the fiery clergyman as president. terror <:ampaign in an attempt to 
program works under an agreement Results were cxpected late next scare away voters. between the Haitian and U.S. week, but Ali Khamenei was con­In the central Iranian city of Government. sidered a shoo-in against three other Shiraz, six Mujahedetn Khalq guer· 
Ms. Morris countered Posner's ob­Khomeini loyalists to succeed rillas were killed yesterday in three jection to the new policy by stating Mohammad Ali Rajai. who was assas­clashes with Revolutionary Guards, that the new program met all of the sinated in an Aug. 30 tire-bombing Tehran Radio said. United States international obliga­3 7 days after taking office. The Interior Ministry ordered tions. polls across the country to stay open 
She added that aliens on the high Revolutionary Guards of the fun­an extra three hours or longer to ac­seas have no due process rights and damentalist Moslem regime and commodate what one ministry offi­if a refugee does have an acceptable zealots from the "Party ofGod" were cial called "an exceptional turnout." reason for immigration to the U.S. he called up to protect the voters. At The: govcrnment estimated 20 can explain it to the Immigration one Tehran mosque, officials said million people out of the country's and Naturalization Service official voters were bcing bodily searched total population of36 million would who is present on all Coast Guard bd(>re entering to cast ballots. vote. The voting age was lowered ships stopping Haitian vessels. Tehran residents and officials con· from 16 to 15. 
tacted by telephone from Beirut Tehran observers said the other 
When questioned on what reported the Iranian capital calm three men were nominated as stand· qualified a refugee for immigration despite recent street violence ins in case Khamenei, who survived to the U.S., Ms. Morris explained that blamed on leftist opponents of the a June assassination attempt, was a refugee must fear political per· clergy-led government. killed before he could take office. secuuon if he returns to his country At least 300 Khomeini supporters His challengers received scarce 


As if i.mlatt•clfmm the immense cnJU•cl at the pep ral~y, father and in order to be granted asylum in the have died in a wave ofbombings and mention in the government­daugbt,•r experience tbe evc•nt together. (Photo bv}ohn Mucor) u.s. assassinations since secular-minded controlled media in the days preced­She noted that a distinction is President Abolhassan Bani-Sadr was ing the voting. 
1\T~~S~l;1~~~i~~;~~S~======~=======================sa=t=ur=d=ay='=o=ct=o=b~=r=3=,1=9=8=l==p=a=ge~4 
by The Observer and The AIIociated Prm 

Defies Pope

Excavations at the site of a medieval church have uncovered a number or ancient treasures, including manuscripts and gold artifacts, authorities reported yesterday. Archaeologists said most of the artifacts have come from tombs. One of the most valuable finds at the nearby town of Pratola Serrar is a large gold crucifix inscribed in Latin, the authorities said. While the findings indicate a 7th century construction technique, the archaeologists said they have also come aross many brick formations of Roman style. The site is near that ofa 2,000-year-old Roman aqueduct. -AP 
A 12-hour strike by air controllers halted all traffic over Italian air space yesterday, stranding thousands ofpassengers in major cities. Air controllers were seeking pay increases and other benefits including civil status for military personnel. They an­nounced similar strikes for tomorrow, Tuesday and Thursday. Inter­national traffic, mainly to and from the United States, will be disrupted throughout today at Milan's Malpensa International Air­port because of another strike by ground personnel protesting dis­missal ofa colleague, unions reported. -AP 
Federal officials say they've dropped a probe of two University of Massachusetts students who sought a "hit squad" to send President Reagan to the "big ranch in the sky." The students, whose names Asst. U.S. Atty. George Kelly refused to release, bought a classified ad in the Nov. 7, 1980, edition ofthe Daily Collegian, the student newspaper. It read: "help send Ronald Reagan to the big ranch in the sky. Give him a permanent role in Death Valley Days. Applications now being accepted for Reagan hit squad. Experience with automatic weapon and explosives a plus. The wet head is dead 
or should be. Apply afterJanuary 20." -AP 
Police say a curly-haired boy, who could be as young as 10, pulled a .38-caliber pistol at a Kentucky Fried Chicken outlet and robbed the place. Maria Shabo!, an employee, told Dade County in­vestigators that the blond youih, wearing a green T-shirt and blue jeans, entered the restaurant late Thursday. She said he ordered a five-piece chicken dinner, then pulled the gun and ordered cash. Police said another witness saw the youth run outside and climb into a waiting red van, which then sped away. No arrests have been made 
in the robbery, which netted less than S100, police said. -AP 
Record-high unemployment among blacks 
sent the nation's jobless rate to 7.5 percent in September while more people than ever before accepted part-time work, the Labor Depart­ment said yesterday. Nearly 8 million people were out of work last month -some 309,000 more than the month before -as overall unemployment jumped by three-tenths of a percent, the Bureau of Labor Statistcs said. The proportion ofthe.total U.S. population hold­ing jobs fell to 58.1 percent, the lowest level since December 1980. 
The number of "discouraged workers" -those who have abandoned their job searches -jumped by 1.1 million in the third quarter. The unemployment rate in August was 7.2 percent of the work force, following a decline to 7 percent the month before. This year's highest rate -7.6 percent in May. -was attributed by government analysts to a statistical fluke resulting from earlier-than­expected school closings. The last time unemployment reached 7.5 percent was November 1980. -AP 
Americans are usingcredit cards more frequently than they were earlier this year. But the caution that followed the controls of 1980 still lingers, prompted partly by new fees and high­er interest rates. "We're coming back," said Jim Matthews of Con­tinental Illinois National Bank and Trust Co. in Chicago. He said the bank's Visa and MasterCard holders made four percent fewer pur­chases in the first eight months of 1981 than in the corresponding period a year earlier. In January, the number of transactions was almost 22 percent below 1980 levels. Dollar volume has increased -up 2.4 percent for the first eight months ofthe year, but Matthews said, "How much ofthat is due to inflation, I don't know." Like many other banks, Continental now imposes a fcc for the once-free cards. 
The annual charge of S1 5 caused people to be more selective, Mat­thews said. "They quit carrying multiple cards." -AP ' 
At ·least ten married women from Long Island say a telephone caller posing as their husbands' psychiatrist talked them into having intimate relations with strangers in order to help al­leviate sex problems the caller said their husbands had. The women duped into the strange game say they went out on the street, picked up men and returned home with them to await "sex therapy" in­structions from the mystery caller. Police publicized the scam on Thursday after four women came forward with their bizarre stories saying they had sex with the strangers. Since then, more than 100 women on Long Island and in New York City called to say they too had been targets of the sexual con man and six more said they had gone through with the scheme. -AP 
Partly sunny and warmer today, high in the mid ~Os. Variably cloudy and warm with scattered showers tomorrow, h1gh in the upper 60s -AP 

Priest celebrates outlawed ntass 
paneled wall, a cloth-covered table Catholic Mass. It's an ecumenical ByJERRY HARKAVY became an altar and metal folding Mass," which can ev('n be con­Associated Press Writer chairs took the place ofpews. celebrated with non-Catholics. 
Some worshippers came from 40 "The foundation of the Mass, the LEWISTON, Maine -Six years af­or SO miles away, from Waterville, whole substance has been changed,' ter he was expelled from his 
Rumford and Falmouth, seeking the agreed worshipperJoseph Gallant of Montreal parish, a Roman Catholic kind of religous sustenance they say Mexico, Maine, who furnished the priest is traveling the continent, a they cannot find in their own 
crucifix for the service. "The new circuit rider leading his farflung 
parishes. Mass doesn't give the same solace 
flocks in a forbidden Mass. After reciting the rosary and the consolation, as the old one." The Rev. Yves Normandin, whose 
hearing confessions, Normandin Normandin is a follower ofFrench terriory extends from British celebrated Mass in Latin instead of Archbishop Marcel Lefebure, the Columbia to Nova Scotia, celebrates 
English, using the prayer book Switzerland-based rebel who heads 
the Tridentine Mass, the traditional which Pope Paul VI supplanted with a traditionalist movment claiming
Latin Mass outlawed by the reforms a simplified and modernized version adherents worldwide. It's a move 
ofVatican Council II. 
just over a decade ago. ment that opposes changes in Cath The Mass, dating back to 15 70, There were other differences: 
olic liturgy as well as the church's still has its adherents, 22 of whom 
Normandin faced the altar and kept trend toward ecumenism. came to a cinderblock hall in a tene­his back to the congregation, the Clarence McKay, a spokesman for . ment.district of Lewiston last week worshippers took no part in the 
the Diocese of Partland, would not to pray in the old way. prayer readings and there was no comment specifically on Norman For Normandin's visit, the rented 
"Kiss ofPeace" at the close. din's services but pointed out that all hall was transformed into a church. 
In rejecting the new liturgy, Nor­Catholics are obliged by papalA 60-year-old crucifix was hung on a 
-mandin said: "it's no longer a real decree to follow the new order. 
~-The_Ohs.erYer_ 
Design Editor ............................. Mike Monk Design Assistants ............ Deirdre Murphy Tim Neeley Typesetter ........................... Raymond Inglin News Editor ................................... KeUi Flint Copy Editor................... David Rickabaugh Sports Copy Editor ............. Skip Desjardin Systems Control ............... Raymond lnglin 
Pbotograpber ............................ )ohn Macor Guest Appearances ............................... Paul Tim and his cookies Mighty Max and his pizza Ryan's tennis shoes Lisa ).). SchiUer on location Richard Mansfield boogied on by 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary"s Col­lege. Subscriptions may be purchased 
for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Second class postage paid at Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
~--RiVER ciTYRECoRi5s ­
Northern Indiana's Largest ~lec~ion of Albums & Tapes. Why pay more a~y place else? 
411' l OO OFFfany regul~r ~ecord or tape with ad.
1.1J Ltmlt 1 per eersotl 
• . · • Expires Oct.:ti ,1981 
50970 us 31 North •open till 10 every night3 miles Northof Campus 
e ND/SMC ~hecks cashed 

next to Al's Supermarket up to $20 over purchase amount
277-4242 eRecord Crates available
-

COPP MUSIC CENTER INC 
430 N. Main So. Bend 233-1838 Take 31 South, turn right one block past Memorial Hospital 
eGuitars • Harmonicas •Metronomes eBanjos Accessories elessons eRecordersesheet musiceRepairs 
10% off anything with this. 
I, , r 

ad...no 1m1t • 
NOW OPEN ... 
Travel Services Now on the Campus of St. Mary's College 
• 
Computerized Airline Reservations 

• 
Amtrak Tickets 

• 
Bus/Limo Tickets to Chicago 

• 
Tours and Cruises 

• 
Group Travel Services 


( 219) 284-5606 
~source
•Travel 
formerly ~IJJaJmJls. Travel 
Notre Dame Travel Office Located in Badin Hall (219) 236-2374 
Editorial Board and Department Managers
====IheO~e~~==== 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Editor-in-Cbief.........................................)ohn McGrath SMC E;ecuttve Editor .....................Mary Agnc:~ CareyThe Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the ManagingEditor ......................................Tom)ackman SMC News Editor .......................... .....Cathy Domanico University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. It does nor necessanly 
NewsEditor .............................................Tim Vercc:llotti 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The new!'> is reported 
News Editor .......................................................Kelli Flint Business Manager ....................................Rich Coppola as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a Contro/ler....................................................... .)oe Mulflur
Sports Editor .........................................Michael Ortman majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the vieW!'> Features Editor ....................................Anthony Walton Advertising Manager......................................Mark Ellis 
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community. and Production Manager..............................Michael Monk Photo Editor...................................................john Macor Circulation Manager ........................Tom Maclennan
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through leners, is encouraged. 
The Observer Saturday, October 3, 1981 -page 5 
Union chairman 
Solidarity endorses Walesa 
<iDANSK, Poland (AI') -The Solidarity congress dected Lech Walcsa chairman of the 9. 5 million· memb<:r union yesterday in a strong t·ndorsement of his policy of com­promising with the Polish govern­ment instead of confronting it head 
on. 
Walcsa immediately promised to "try to break down factions" among the rank and file that have divided the year-old free union's first con­vention. He attributed his victory to his record during his unofficial leadership ofSolidarity. 
"Thar,ks for your support," the 38­year-old electrician told the cheer· ing unionists packed inside the Olivia Sports Arena. 
"I'm sorry that some of you 
hacked talk more than action." 
Walcsa easily defeated three other 
candidates. Solidarity announced he 
received 462 of the votes cast, or 
55.2 percent. 
R;u.lkal Jan Rulcwski, whose tlcry c:~mpaign speeches calling ti>r the union to stand up w tht· Sovkts and Polish authoritks had drawn cheer­ing applause, got just 6 percent of tht· vott·. 
\1arian Jurczyk, who heads the Solidarity chapter at the Sczcecin ~hipyards tll·ar the East German bor­der, got 2·l percent of the vote and Andrze (iwiazda, a longtime frn· tradt· union organiz<:r and tht·oretician ti>r Solidarity, got ncar· ly l) pt·rcetll of the vote. The other vote~ apparently were cast for write-ins or ldt blank. 
Walcsa, who had come under bit· ter attack by militants, praised the secret ballot process and promised he would seek the advice ofthe rank 
and file in running the union. 
"Let's follow the road to victory 
with a new tradition of bringing a 
chairman in a sack as opposed to a 
briefcase," he said. His allusion was 
to the old Communist Party system 
of the hierarchy naming party 
congress delegates and members of 
the Central Committee without 
grassroots input. Solidarity mem­
bers who belong to the party this 
year got the authorities to allow 
selection of delegates at the local 
level by secret ballot. 
"The more difficult it gets, the 
more advice I'll ask of you," Walesa 
said. "We can overcome every 
enemy, even ifhighly developed." 
Earlier this week, militant dclgates won passage ofa resolution criticizing Walesa and other leaders who had compromised with the Par­· liament on a bill granting workers some say in p ment. The first session of the congress, which ended Sept. 16, 
voted to demand full say in choosing 
managers and threatened to boycott 
anything less. \\'hen the congress 
reconvened, militants said the 
delegates' will had been ignored. 
Walcsa on Thursday got mild ap­
plause in his speech warning that the 
authorities "have the strength to 
beat us" and threilluting to leave the 
9.5 million-member union if he is ousted from the chairmanship. 
Delegate~ generally regard Walcsa as realistic although some· what dictatorial and the heavy ap­plause given tough-talker Rulewski was seen more as a retlection of the delegates' mood rather than voting intentions. 
The unionists voted earlier yester-
The Notre Dame Student Union &the ACC present 

~)~pa~m rnrn~corn rn®~l:3 
IN CONCERT Oct. 9 8 pm in the ACC 



day on the union "platform" and said they hoped a final draft would be ready for a vote today. 
• • . Refugee 
continuedfrom page 1 
Administration's refugee quota policy, stating that it didn't retlect "reality", or operate within the "spirit ofthe law." 
Posner concluded that the Inter­
diction policy may cause problems 
for the Administration. 
He suggested that the biggest problem about the entire immigra· tion system is the fact that it is to politicized, commenting that the State Department shouldn't be in the "refugee business." 
Ms. Morris explained that there is a plan where an overall refugee coordinator will work outside the State Department, although the plan has not been approved. 
There is pressure in Congress for a the coordinator to be connected directly to the W'hite House, so the refugee policy cannot be used as an instrument of foreign policy and it can be more responsive to domestic Patty Mackay sbou·s tbe intensity ofan lrisb cheerleaderas she went issues, Ms. Morris concluded. tbrougb herroutines a/last night'spep ral(J'. (Photo byjohn Macor)

·····-·..············-·..........··-··-...-··-···----..
oO_D J'l• For the best in PIZZA, SANDWICHES, CHIPS CW 
. . ..,~ AND COLD DRINKS Phone l3l-1883 
tOR SPEEDY CARRY OUT OR DELIVERY 
closest delivery to campus available 7 days a week 
ND-SND-SMC checks accepted 
PIZZA . -u···SLoo~~fi­

836 Portage Ave. SUNDAY-THURSDAY 4-11 Large piZZa 
~~th~'!'1.J~'ii~l!~i~~!.-~~~~!~::;~:~:~.J-1 ~=~~:0/8 

EATING l9RINKING & t:lTtfER PI.JEASANTJ\IES 
[UNCH Mon.· Sat. II:CD-4:30 
N  ~ Park Mall  Q) c. c. (5·  
ND  Douglas  

1 

GO IRISH'' DINNER 
Mon. ·Thurs. 5:00 . 10:00 Fri. · Sat. 4:30 -ll :00 Sun. ll:OO -10:00 
The Observer Saturday, October 3, 1981 -page 6 



Saturday, October 3, 1981 -page 7 
The Observer will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30p.m. However, clas­sifieds to be run in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All clas­sifieds must be prepaid, either in person or through
Classifieds 

the mail. 
PENN ST. TIX: WILL BUY PSU TIX OR Thomas Moore and Elenore: This sub­need GA's for Usc will pay your price!! call HELP!! Need 4-5 FSU GA's for visitmg TRADE FOR USC GA'S BILL '80 212­scNption ts for you. You deserve it more
WANTED 

1625
lamily! Save a life! CALL KEVIN 1658 759-4846. 
than before, for all that yov've been 

.......................... '' .................................. 
through! Sent 4 kids to the Dome,Urgently need 2 student or GA tickets lor DESPERATELY NEED GA TIX FOR 

WEALTHY GRANDPARENTS need 2
USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED , 2 Wild gtrls need ride to Gainesville. Fla. Supporting them all the way. We may be
USC Game. Will pay in U.S. Dollars.
USC AND PENN STATE. CALL FLORIDA STATE GAs Call Bob at 3527
SAT, SUN. 9-7 CASPERSON. 1303 (or general vicinity) for October break. far away from home, But our love is there 
MARTHA4449 Steve 234-1539 
BUCHANAN RO . NILES. Wilt help with $ and gas. Can leave to stayl anyt1me. Call Pam or Susie (and they w111 
TOP DOLLAR FOR USC GA CALL SUE Desperately need 1 FSU and 2 USC Tlx. 
TYPING--Only $ 65 a page Call Dan, gtve a message to the wtld girls) at 41-BOSTON CLUB 
Call Buzz 8265 '272-5549. before 9 00 PM 5236. 
(SMC) 4889 October Break Bus 
S1gnups: Mon. Oct. 5

PERSONALS
Need 2 FSU GAs Dave 2891916 For SALE: student USC. Best offer. Laura 
Mary, -The test came back pos1t1ve. HA NEED:. Lots of Tix to all home games· esp: 7-8 pm LaFortune 
2858

HAt-Gary Fla. St. & Navy Call Ph111150 
Need 2 GA tix to FSU game. Call Barb ..... .... ········ .. 5135 SMC. ATTENTION BOOKSTORE Mary,
NEED 2 NAVY GA TIX, CALL SUSAN
BACKGAMMON PLA YERSI Send lor Wut top highest bid for 2 FSU GA's 
8020! • DEVOTEESIIII! Bone Bourret is here.· I do have it. Better call home and find FREE copy of prem1er 1ssue of Backgam­Chrla8930 
······ " NEED 4 FSU TIX. PLEASE CALL 5157 Genuflect out what's new there. 
.................................... 
mon Ttmes. excttlng and tntelligent 
FLA ST !!! I'M DESPARATE-WILL PAY Yipe Yipel Spot 
reading. Write. 575 Mad1son Ave NYC WANTED: Room-siZed carpet in wh1te. 
DESPERATELY NEED 3 GA TIX TOANYTHING FOR TIXS JENNY 4t-4507
t 0022 Rm t 006 .tan or brown. Ca\18621. To the current occupant olt5t Mornsey.
FLORIDA STATE. WILL PAY SS$1 Evacuate the shnne. BONE IS BACK II!! 
CONGRATULATIONS MK,

PLEASE CALL PAULA AT 232·8301. TO THE TOOL WHO STOLE MY TAPE Need nde to and from Daytona Bch. for WE LOVE YOU, DESPERATELY NEED 2 OR 4 FSU GA 
TIXII! PLEASE CALL LISA AT 6848
DECK FROM THE ARKY BUILDING October breal\. Will share usual. Donna Backbone? THE GANG
Needed: NAVY GA's or Student's. Mark THURSDAY NITE. YOUR 2734. 
277·6t08. GRANDMOTER IS BEING HELD EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO TIRED OF KEGGERS?---EAT HUN­nQed 3 USC Ga·s will pay $50 each. Steve 
t854

HOSTAGE IN MY DORM YOU CAN NEED A .RIDE TO THE D.C./BALT TYPING. CALL 287-5t62. GARIAN INSTEAD!!! 
DESPERATE ALUMNI NEEDS GOOD HAVE HER BACK WHEN MY TO IS AREA FOR OCT BREAK! CALL TOM Neighborhood Roots 
TICKETS TO USC GAME. CALL COL­RETURNED JUST LEAVE IT 16891 LECT (BEFORE 2PM): JOHN DE ROSA IN DESPERATE NEED TO TWO RIDES October 8 .. 4-8p.m.
Parents threatening mel Help! Need 3 
FSU GAs. Call Brian 4521. 

ANYWHERE THAT SOME HONEST (213) 485-1t00 TO DETROIT FOR OCT. BREAK. Meet at Library Circle PERSON CAN FIND IT. OR IF YOU Gary, t-iic3H···scHool.····Fooreiil.l.··· FANs PLEASE CALL TARt AT 7870. Cost: $3.00 --Tickets available 1-1AVE THE ··--S CALL 1678-SHE'S II you have 11 then Spot must have 11 too Monday and Tuesday--Oct. 5&6
I could use 500 Georgia Tech GA's, but if NOT GOING TO LIVE MUCH LONGER Mary 3573 North and South Dining Halls 
NEED FLORIDA STATE TIX. Call Tom at 
you have 3 please give me a call. Jeff -P S. I WANT THE TAPES TOO Hunganan d1nner included
6988 Dear Ryan. 
Need ROOM RESERVATION for .. ... . ...... . 
PLEASE ti! IIJEED TWO GAs FOR FSU Shtrley·s (the late mght p1t of greasy
GOING SOUTH FOR THE BREAK? I FLORIDA STATE WEEKEND -Call HAPPY 2oth BIRTHDAY KIRK FLITTIEIII 
NEED FLORIDA ST. TICKETS Would NEED A AIDE TO CENTRAL ALABAMA. Dion at 3573 LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLLI THE MIN­
AND GATECH. WILL PAY BUCKS CALL food. not the most efficient office manager
like up to 3 GAs. Please call Jeff t764 or WILL SHARE EXPENSES AND 1761 NESOTA CONNECTION PARTIES 
JOE 886 employed? by the OBSERVER. who 
................................................................ none-the-less says Hello!') is in
DRIVING. PLEASE CALL ANGIE AFTER TONIGHT!
NEED 2 FSU TIX.WILL PAY $60 AND desperate need of a short order
10:30PM AT 3750 TO HIGHBALL TIMES. 
NEED GA TECH TIX FOR LITTLE SIS­
UP.ED 1208. cook/dishwasher with limited experience 
FOR SALE~ 
NOBS AND FLIP, TER'S BIRTHDAY CALL DAN 8477 We have submitted your name as a pos­BOB,JEFF,GREG,CHUCK,

BIG $$$$$ for 2 GA TIX & 2 ST TIX for sible drudge capable of d01ng a less than WAL T,ART,MIKE BEN and Dude need FSU t1ckets dialGEORGIA TECH. PLEASE call BEFORE 
MAGNAPAN IIA Speakers, one year old, adequate fOb. II you are Interested.
!LOST/FOUND I 
$645.616-473-1636 BREAK!! JAY at 1703 1000 please send a copy of your resume (care AMM.of Box 0) so that an mterv1ew can be ar­Great Game. Keenan BEWARE II
NEED 3-4 FLA ST GAs FOR FAMILY. WANTED; FOUR GA'S TO FLORIDA STATE. MONEY NO OBJECT CALL
LOST. a two tone blue sweat jacket anyone 1ntested in u.s.c. tics i w111 trade 3 ranged. By the way, jUSt who IS Ryan Ver­
WILL PAY TOP$. CALL TIM 277-7590 HANK AT 1650 , Reward, call v1nce 1238 student t1cs lor 3 f.s.u. stud. or ga·s call Berkmoes, why odoesn't he write lor THE DONNAWINN. 
JOhn at 8791 OBSERVER. and does he still wear a fun­
YOU'RE A LOT PRETTIER WHEN YOU

WANTED: THREE GA'S TO USC AM·2 USC GA's needed. Please call MARK at ny cap? The Commons beckons. SemorFOUND Brown sweater 1n O'Shag Call 
SMILE 1764 M1ke 
184t DESPERATE, SO CALL NOW CALL 
Bar IS cool; 1 must be on my way. Take 
HANK OR JIM AT t650 WELCOME!
2 USC GA NEEDED, BUT bro and newlost. Wht & Blue Ski Vest, probably leh 1n 
TICKETS care 
PAT. ANNE, and the g~rts from StNEED USC TICKETS DESPERATELY!

dad-In-law can only afford $70 lor the patr The Observer Gang (oh Aglee) Hayes Healey classroom Please call Bonaventure! Hey Pats .. DITTO!! I Gee.
SACRIFICE extra $ lor a great cause. WILLING TO PAY FACE VALUEI CALL P.S. Lehy says Mooooo! 
~ 
C\@W~OOlfa~~ ~00~~ 
'pay if and only when you sell'
*Michiana BAZAAR * 
TO PLACE AN AD,Call 277-8521 
LOW RATES FOR BUSINESS DISPLAY ADS 


Oahat &clwf 
ReSTAURAHT 
1212 S. ~. SNdk 'Baed , ~ 289-1616 
amily dining at reasonable price 
Steak dinners & Seafood ive Music 9-12 p.m.--Tues.-Sat~ appy Hour 4-6 p.m.--Mon.-Fri. 
I wonder what that means?!"

MIKE AT 1071. 


PROFESSIONAL SYSTEMS Carl Gunnar Larsson-ND '81 
Presents 

BELL & HOWELL APPLE IITM COMPUTER: 
the MICROCOMPUTER for the '80s 
PROFESSORS, RESEARCHERS, CLUBS, STUDENTS, ORGANIZATIONS 
For a limited time only, you can but buy the Bell ~ Howell Apple II Micro computer, a Disk II and a Video Monitor for 
$1749.00 (ends 10/11) 
The Bell & Howell Microcomputer System offers many useful applications: ·WORD PROCESSOR-store letters, reports, tests, resumes, theses, dissertations ·FILING SYSTEM-for articles, books, messages, students, club members~mcome, expenses, and much more 
·TERMINAL-connect yourself up with the New York Stock Exchange, Western Union, Telex, UPI, AP or any other computer in the world 
Also available: Leasing Rental (Buy only the software program, reserve time on a store computer for S12/hr) 
SEE THE BELL & HOWELL APPLE IITM COMPUTER AT 
Tom 1689 or lost and found. 
LOST Green F1eld or thereabouts -one wallet Please return to Ted, 233-3552. 
LOST small tan clutch purse in O'Shag classroom PLEASE return if found Need I D ·s desperatly. Donna 2734. 
LOST Head Tenn1s Racket at E line North D1mng shelves on 9· t 8 Please call Tom att470. 
LOST. A ·72 Bu1ck Skylark somewhere on Groen F1eld a her the LSU game II seen or found. please call Tom at t058 

Student hous1ng. clean. sale, laundry, kitchen, rated supenor $100 1ncludes all. 291-1405 
female roommate needed to share com­fortable two bedroom house near campus ca11289-673t 
Penn St. t1cket wanted please call Donna at6771 
2 GA FLORIDA STATE TIX NEEDED BADLY,MONEY NO OBJECT.Bob 234­04t8 
Will pay top $ for ND-USC game lickets Need 6 t1ckets. best tocat1on available Please call collect (714) 835-6505 ask for Tony Herenda or Jud1 Carlos. 
Need 4 MSU and 4 USC GA t1x John 1001 
TWO GA FSU TICKETS MONEY NO OBJECT CALL BOB 234-0418 
Need t1x lor October 3 M1ch St. game. Call Beth. 6945 
I NEED 4 GA TICKETS TO THE NAVY GAME. CALL PETER 1222 
Need MSU and Ga Tech GA's desperately. Call Paul at t222 
Need Penn State IIX. Call Stan. 3006, or 3008. 
Gib-t628 
X

PROFESSIONAL SYSTEMS ~ 240 RUE DE VILLE > 
0
..

PARK JEFFERSON 0 SOUTH BEND, IN 46615 ..
Ironwood on the river 

(219) 233-9922 "' 
"' 

Monday-Friday 9-9 Saturday 10-6 Sunday 12-5 E. Jefferson Blvd. 
·­
~j7()fitS~J:I~,..~~=·~~~S~==============================sa=t=ur=d=~='~o=ct=o=be=r=3=,I=9=8=I==p=a=ge==8
by The Ohserz,er and The Associated Prerr 
The Notre Dame chapter of the Fellowship of 
Christian Athletes is sponsoring an evening with Irish baseball coach Larry Gallo on Wednesday, October 7, at 8:30p.m. in the Badin Hall chapel. FCA promotes Christian fellowship among athletes and coaches in hopes that this will be shared with the larger community. All interested are invited to attend. -The Observer 
The Notre Damegolfteam will host the NO Fall Invita­tional Golf Tournament on Monday afternoon on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Coach Noel O'Sullivan's Irish will be looking to rebound from their disappointing showing in the recent Indiana State Championships. -The Observer 
Illinois State and Indianatied for the lead in the 
"Blue" portion of the Notre Dame Invitational Cross Country meet yesterday afternoon. Notre Dame finished a disappointing I I th out of 18 teams. Purdue finished thid in the :neet, followed by Western Michigan and Eastern Michigan. Bill Shvey ofPurdue took individual honors. Ralph Caron was the top Notre Dame finisher, coming in 47th.-The Observer 
An interhall cross country meet is scheduled 
for Monday, October 5, on the Burke Memorial GolfCourse. Contes­tants arc to report to the second tee. For more information, call the NVA office at 6I 00 -The Obsemer 

*CONVENIENT, SAllE, DOWNTOWN LOCATION· 5 MINUTES TO NOTRE DAME 
* 1&2 BEDROOM UNITS FROM $31,500 10% DOWN, BALANCE AT 11-W~o 
•TOTAL MONTHLY PAYMENT COST FROM $417-INCLUDES HEAT AND AIR CONDITIONING 
RON OLSON 272-8870 SMITH-ZEISZ 272-5444 


7 pm Stepan Center Sun., Oct. 4 
t1f)lll~£f)llllll" J>Cit:i<CI"~ [f)tt~fl 


• 

555 package includes: 2 Fla. State football tickets 
2 Beach Boys tickets 2 Homecoming "suitcase party" tickets Bring id's and money GREAT DEAL!! 
• 

winner at suitcase party wins free week­long trip for 2 to Florida over fall break! 
4:1Xla.m  415am  4:10a.m  S·!Xl a.m  
4'45 a.m  S:()()a.m  515a.m  5::l0 a.m  545am  
6:45a.m  71Xla.m  715am  7 :lO a.m  7-45 a rn  
9'1Xl a.m.  '115a.m  'HOa.m  '145am  
II IKla.m.  1115am  ll :lOam  1145 am  
ll)(lpm  115pm  I :lO pm  145 pm  
31Xlpm  :l15pm  :uo p m  :!45 pm  
5()(lp.m  515 pm  5:lOpm  545 pm  


The gymnastiCS Club of ND/SMC is putting on an exhibition on the South Quad by the flagpole this morning before the football game from 10:30 to noon. During that time, the team will be selling blue carnations. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame chapter of the Fellowship of 
Christian Athletes is sponsoring an evening with Irish baseball Coach Larry Gallo on Wednesday, October 7, at 8:30 p.m. in the Badin Hall chapel. FCA promotes Christian fellowship among ath­letes and coaches in hopes that this will be shared with the larger community. All are invited to attend. -The Observer 
The Notre Damegolfteam will host the NO Fall Invita­tional Golf Tournament Monday afternoon on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Coach Noel O'Sullivan's Irish will be looking to rebound from their disappointing showing in the recent Indiana State Championships. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame soccer teamdefeated Michi­
gan State 4-I on Cartier Field yesterday afternoon. Freshman Rich Herdegen scored three goals in the first I 5 minutes of the game to pace the Irish, who are 8-0-2 on the season. Herdegen now shares the team goal-scoring lead with Sami Kahale and Mario Manta with eight goals apiece. Junior Mike Sullivan scored the other Irish goal four minutes into the second half. Kahale and Manta each had two assists. Kahale's ten assists leads the team. Michigan State's Henry Ndukwu ruinedJohn Milligan's shut-out bid with a goal at the 66:38 mark. The next game for the Irish is tomorrow at 2:00 on Alumni Field against the University of Chicago. -The Observer 
;~;:~:;:;:~::::@~:~:
FOOTBALL "WmP* 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL CONFERENCE East 
w L Pet. PF PA Dallas 4 0 1.000 109 58 Philadelphia 4 0 1 000 93 40 N.Y. G1ants 2 2 .500 57 53 St LOUIS 1 3 .250 74 100 Washington 0 4 000 60 119 
Central Detroit 2 2 .500 87 71 Minnesota 2 2 .500 79 94 Tampa Bay 2 2 .500 68 70 Chicago 3 .250 61 85 Green Bay 3 .250 69 105 
West 
Atlanta 3 1 .750 109 62 
San Francisco 2 2 .500 73 89 
Los Angeles 2 2 .500 96 80 
New Orleans 3 .250 44 85 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE East 
w L Pet. PF PA M1am1 4 0 1.000 97 55 BuHalo 2 2 .500 104 50 NY. Jets 3 .250 73 117 Baltimore 1 3 250 70 122 New England 0 4 .000 73 104 
Central Cincinnati 3 1 .750 102 95 Pittsburgh 2 2 .500 108 98 Cleveland 2 2 .500 65 87 Houston 2 2 .500 63 72 West San D1ego 3 1 .750 138 110 Kansas City 3 .750 107 99 Denver 3 1 .750 89 54 Oakland 2 2 500 63 45 Seattle 3 250 58 77 

Anybody 's ballgame 
Big Ten football race heats up 
FREE PARKING CAll (219) 255-3068 FOR RESERVATIONS 
ByJOE MOOSHIL 
Associated Press 
The verr young Big Ten football race resumes today, but already defending champion Michigan and Purdue, the team that has had the best overall record in the con­ference the last three seasons, have their backs against the wall. 
"If we lose again we're out of it," 
said Michigan Coach Bo Schem­
bechler. ''That is a great deal of 
pressure to play under each and 
every week bul we have nobody to 
blame but ourselves." 
The reason is Michigan's earlier 
loss to Wisconsin. Purdue finds itself 
in the same fix because of an unex­
pected loss to Minnesota. 
Both teams will have the added 
burden of being on the road this 
week. Michigan is at Indiana and 
Purdue goes to Wiscon~in to play a 
game which will be televised 
regionally. 
Two other conference games are on the agenda with Minnesota at Il­linois and giant-killer Iowa at Northwestern. Ohio State takes on Florida State and Michigan State is at Notre Dame to clean up noncon­ference action where Rig Ten teams already have a lopsided 13-7 record against.intersectional foes. 
Because of this success against outside foes which includes Iowa victories over Nebraska and UCLA, a pair of triumphs over Notre Dame 
.and two more over Stanford, some 
H(Klam liUOa.m 12:lOpm 2:lllp.m 4 :{0 p m 700pm H:lO pm 
HllOpm 

IO·!Ml p m 
observers feel there will be a real race in the Big Ten instead of the usual showdown between Michigan and Ohio State. 
As a result there will be special in­terest in the Minnesota at Illinois and Purdue at Wisconsin games where Illinois and Purdue are very slight favorites. 
And if the situtation comes down 
to going for a tie or a possible win­
loss, Purdue Coach jim Young indi­
cated he might go for a tie instead of 
the two points which lifted Purdue 
past Notre Dame I 5-I4last week. 
"Two losses and you're out of the 
Big Ten race," said Young. "One loss 
and a tic would keep us in the race." 
Young also was concerned about 
Wisconsin's defense led by nose 
guard Tim Krumrie. 
Wisconsin Coach Dave McClain 
called Purdue "An excellent football 
team. I think we're equally matched 
and the breaks should determine the 
game." 
Illinois rested last week. The Illini 
opened the season with a loss at 
fourth-ranked Pitt before knocking 
off Michigan State and Syracuse. In 
Minnesota, the Illini will be facing 
the only Big Ten team other than 
Ohio State that is undefeated. 
Michigan and Iowa are heavily favored but Iowa coach Hayden Fry is bothered by the rash of injuries suffered in the UCLA triumph. Nevertheless, the Hawkeyes should hand Northwestern its 24th straight defeat which would be four shy of the NCAA record of 28 shared by Kansas State and Virginia. 
Fry also is aware that Northwes­tern coach Dennis Green went to Iowa and said ''I'm sure Coach Green would enjoy nothing more than beating his alma mater." 
• • • Surprise 

continuedfrom page 10 
Junior Kathy Ray also continues to get better. according to Galen. Ray leads the team in scoring and savs of the season so far, "I'm really cx~ited by all this. It'~ our best start ever in my three years here and it's just great. We also have the most skill ever and thl· most enthusiasm. 
O'Hare 
$20' 
one 
way 
HOME 

PICK..lJP $38 
ROUND TRIP
$3.00 
"On top ofthis season's success so far," Ray continues. "we have no seniors on the squad so next season looks even better." Other strong 
players include sophomores Clare 
Henry and Karen Koro\vicki. along with junior Deborah Raehl. who never played tldd hockey before she came to Nmre Dame. 
Galen is pleased with the fresh­men she has, but is most impressed with Mary Urn, Katherine Wagner and :-Aichele Rooney. "llrn is showing a lot of promise," Galen says. "Wagner is an excellent player, 
and Rooney is as \Veil, with two sis­ters playing here before her." With ten more matches, including one tomorrow against Indiana at I I 
a.m. on Cartier Field, Galen seems confident that her team will do well. Since there are only three Division II field hockey teams in Indiana, the Irish already have an automatic berth into the regional tournament. 
If they are successful there, they will advance to the national finals the weekend ofNovember 22. Galen feels an October 18 match at Colgate will provide a good guage o t f how successful the team will be on the national level, since Colgate was second in the nation last season in Division II. 
"'I think we'll do real well," Galen comments. "\X"e have a much im­proved team from last vcar and a tremendous amount of talent." 

The Observer==-~-=~­
Saturday, October 3, 1981 -page 9
Weekend 


TOO LAT£, 711£ 8DDK5TDR£. IS CL...05£D ... No PRDBL£/VI Jr5 JV5/ A 6HCRT WA.LI< ib LA RJP!TUN£ 

OH BOY... TH€ COPIER AI J.ISTEN /{IPPO, 77-fOSE 1WO Ur FORTUNe IS OVT OFORDCR ... HAa-/INEs Ali'£ OI.JT AND I'M GV£55 .I f./AVE 1lJ ~D 7lJ Tilt CDPYIN~ :M::l!:l.A_ KAP.ENIIJA •?6 YOU 
LIBRftll,Y l116tl-lr WANT TD TlWTHE MAC.HIA.15 JN fiE.5ERVEP BooKs 
THI~ MACHINE:: IS OUT or 

PAP£R , you HJ6tHr wANr m 7RY ""THE. GCPIER ltJ P£RioPICAL6,.,BUr 111£6UY WITH PA1£R 5/-IDVLI> £3£ UP 

Simon 

ACROSS 1 Door part 5 Rang out 
11 Derby, maybe

The Daily Crossword 
14 Room in the 
White House 15 Make it 16 Mine output 17 Sleight 
of hand 19 One kind of artist 20 Cut-and­
dried 21 Line a roof 22 Necessity 23 Namesakes 
of a Dillon 25 Grandma­26 Indifferent 
retort 
30 Successful 32 Flexible 33 Singles 34 Exclamation 
of surprise 37 Deputies: 
abbr. 38 That is 40 Decorated 
a cake 41 Tic---toe 42 Maple tree 43 Length of 
time in office 45 Robber action 


47 Louise of TV 
48 Religious groups 50 Monsters 
53 Rabbit 54 Atmosphere 55 Marry in 
haste 60 Eastern bigwig 61 Magician's word 63 Narcotic peace 64 German art songs 65 Othello, for one 66 Leftover morsel 67 Passover suppers 68 Lima, for one 
DOWN 1 Shock 2 Insist 3 Gift-bear­
ing wise 
men 4 Fruit decay 5 Launch site 6 Upright 7 Medieval 
helmet 8 Trysts 9 Iniquity 
10 Playroom 11 Conjurer's gimmick 
Jeb Cashin 
12 Rebelled 13 Camping shelters 18 Employ a new staff 22 Pasture 
sound 24 Garrets 25 Rockies: 
abbr. 26 Quarrel 27 Gymnast 
Korbut 28 Voodooism 29 Owns 31 Irritate 33 Above, 
poetically 35 Roll call word 36 European 
river 39 Bypassed 40-and outs 42 Sloths 44 Alleviated 46 Summer: Fr. 48 Military 
dress hat 49 Fervent 51 Slope 52 Athlete 
of a kind 54 Rose's love 56 Docile one 57 Wood-wind 58 Malayan 
canoe 59 Merit 61 Hirt and 
Kaline 62 -longa, vita brevis 

Campus 
Saturday, October 3 
•9 
a.m. -baseball game, nd vs. valparaiso, jake kline field. 

•10 
a.m.-12:30 p.m -snite museum, special museum hours for home football saturdays. 

•11 
a.m.-1 p.m. -alumni hospitality center, north dome ace, sponsored by alumni assoc., films, in­formation, refreshments; glee club will sing at 

noon. 

•1 
:30 p.m. -football game, nd vs michigan state,. home. 

•7 
p.m. -film, "the choice of love", memorial library auditorium, sponsored by international stu­dent affairs. 

•8 
p.m. -performance, "getting out", nd/smc theatre, o'laughlin auditorium, smc. 

•9:30-1 
0:30p.m. -sarah wachter and carol cahal­lan, performance, nazz. 

•1 
0:30-? p.m. -open stage, nazz, all welcome. 


Sunday, October 4 
•I 
p.m. -bas(·ball game, nd vs. xavier, jake kline field. 

•2 
p.m. -soccer game, nd vs. univ. of chicago, alumni field. 

•2 
p.m. -mass, st. francis day liturgy, st. mary's college clubhouse, marking the SOOth birthday of si. francis. 

•7 
p.m. -lottery, homecoming package, stepan center. 

•7:30 
p.m. -lecture, "democratic socialism: a postitve response to the present crisis, penny schantz, nat. org. of the democratic socialist org. committee, room 400 of memorial library, discus­sion on the organization of a dsoc chapter on campus. 


Television Tonight 
7 p.m.  16  Barbara Mandrell  
22  Enos  
28  love Boat  
34  Odyssey  
46  Oral Roberts  
7:30p.m.  46  God's News Behind the News  
8:00p.m.  16  Saturday Night at tht· Movies, "Tilt"  
22  CBS Saturday Night Movie, "Red Flag·  
-The Ultimatt· Game"  
34  Classics34, "Tumbkwcc<.h",( 192~)  
46  Accent on living  

············································~ 
u.&W~&~Q~a~·•••rvu.G~u. 
..0'1J.3.1f .aaiUIRYit 
CID~I! 
~ coCIDun.-mmir rn®eom w~ 
waD&"ZOG2.88... special : 12 oz cokes for 150 in the club ! ! ! 


.., '':· ::. 
RIB Shack 
ST. RD. 23 at f ~TERSWEET 277 43 Welcomes all N.D.-SMC ~ ~nts, faculty, graduates, friends. · SPECIALIZING IN: Hi' y Smoked Ribs and Rib Tips, Broasted ( ken, Broasted Potatoes, Sandwiches. and LZa. 
HOURS: Tues. thru Thurs. lla.m.-9 p.m. Fri. lla.m.-lOp.m. Sat. 4 p.m.-10 p.m. 
... 
' ,­
• 

_. .. 

By CHUCK GREENE 
Sports Writer 

..... 
Second-year tidd hockey coach jan Galen has developed an excd­lent squad this season, having opened with a 7-4 record in its first thret:: weeks of play. 

Galen rt:turned eight starters from last year's squad, and added to that group tive on-campus recruits, three transfers, tive freshmen, and one;: girl 
who had been abroad last year in Paris. "We have a young group with promising depth," says Galen, ''and should produce;: a strong team. We learned a lot in camp, including a new systt:m, and improved there as well. We have a fine front line, and an excellent defense." 
Opening the seaso.n with such a flurry of victories did ·not surprise Coach Galen. but the margin of vic­tory in the early matches did. "I knew we had improved from last season." ~he comments, '"but until W<:.bt:at Kalamazoo 9-0, I had no id<:a how substantial our improve;:ments w<:rc, since we only beat th<:m 1-0 laM yt:ar." 
This te;:am abounds with outstand­ing individual players, such as junior 
-co-captain Giana Marron<:. Marrone leads the squad with two assists and has contributt:d to the;: team's excd­lt"nt front line. 
Galen says of Marrone, "Sh<: has displayt:d tine footwork and really needs no coaching. She works so hard, she <:ven came to me at the t::nd of last season and wantt:d her stick back to practice with in th<: off­season." 
Othe;:r outstanding players in· elude )<:anne Grasso, the team's Most Valuable Player last year. Galen says that Grasso's skills continue to improve and '"she gives the whole team a sense of contidence when sh<:'s hack there on defense." 
See SURPRISE, page 8 

Saturday, October 3, 1981 -page 10 
Hunter converts on,off field 
nationwide college football media of six years, Hunter has had a deep tour sponsored by ABC Television faith in God for as long as he remem­
ByMIKE MONK 
Sports Writer 
and the NCAA. The group traveled bers. Tony attributes this to his mot­to the "seven major football cities," her, who always seemed to come up
It is a rare occasion when that giving massive press conferences in with the silver lining for every gray
elusive concept of the "perfect" each one, the purpose being to cloud.
football player is truly realized. In promote college football. Although
the past, such legends as Frank Gif­"My mother has always stressed to the tour lasted only ten days, it
ford and George Connor have dis­me that sometimes the Good Lord brought about lasting memories for
played their incomparable talents won't always come to you when youHunter.
on playing fields of old, but those want Him," recalls Hunter. "But "It was a great time," he exclaims.
days arc long gone. somehow He always comes. He is al­
"We traveled all over the country
The contemporary version of the ways there and He's going to do game relies heavily on platooning what's best for you." 
and met a lot of interesting people ....Roone Arledge, Keith !at 
and '"specialty" players, having son. It was a great experience:· Hunter has managed to success­
phased out the "all-around" athlete fully incorporate his strong faith in
While attending summer school defense. 
who played both offense and 
at Notre Dame last summer. Hunter God with another major aspect of But now it appears that a distant was befallen with an entirely dif­his lite, football. 
"I used to get really down on

ferent experience. It was during this myself when l didn't do something I relative of this forsaken player has time, after years ofdeliberation, that thought I was able to do," he been successfully resurrected and is 
alive and wdl at Notre;: Dame. The he decided to convert to Cat­reflects. "But now that doesn't hap­position is wingback, and under Ger­holicism. 
pen because I know I give it all I'very Faust's complex multiple offcnst: "I've been thinking about got and that it just wasn't meant tothe wingback does everything from converting ever since I was a fresh· he."

receiving, running and passing to man in high school," he;: confides. Tony's deep f;uth has helped him
leading the marching band out on to ''I've been debating whether to do it to better deal not only with in­the field at half-time. and l kept putting it offand putting it dividual setback~. but also witll the
Naturally, such a demanding posi­otf Finally, I just decided to do it losst's the Fighting llfish have ~uf­
tion would requirt: the talents of the;: while I was up here at summer fcred rn·cnrly.
most versatile of athlett:s. Faust did school. I feel it was the most impor­"We've had some pretty roughnot have to look very hard before;: tant decision in my life and I feel times this year," he understated,selecting former split-end and Moel­really good about it." 
"and I don't know if I could haveler alumnus Tony Hunter for that dif~ Many people who have learned of handled them last year or the year

ticult job. Tony's conversion are often misled 
b,..fr~rP"

The choice was. to say the lt:ast, into thinking rhat he suddenly, mys­anti-climactic. Huntt:r has been tt:riously "got" religion. But thost:: In this day of tht.· egocentric jock recognized by his coaches and the dose to him know that Hunter's who has trouble placing a football press as the best athlete under the deep faith in God has always been an helmet on his inflated head. it is truly Golden Dome; and claiming that he integral part of his life, and his con­refreshing to rt:aliz(· that there art: is perhaps the most talented athlete version has acted to solidify that still some Tony Hunters out there. playing collegiate football today faith. He is a man who has both feet would not constitute an exaggera-"I have a better personal relation-pi I anted firmly on the ground. He un­lion ofany kind. ship with God now than ·y did derstands hh capabilities and limita­
The abilities of such a skilled before," confesses Hunter. "When tions; he recognizes where he's craftsman should be utilized to thdr times get hard, I can turn to Him and come from and e;:xactlv whert: he's utmost potential. Often times. see the good of those hard times. l headed. But kst anyo~c be led to· though, players become unhappy didn't do that very well bdore." believe that Hunter walks around when forced to move from their nor-There were several reasons why with a halo of spiritual perfection mal position to a new one. But in the he decided to convert, he says, but following him wherever he goes, let case of Hunter, no such evidence none more important than the fact the man set the n:cord straight him­supports this theory. that he possessed a great desire to self. 
"I really like the position and feel better himself as a person and as a 
"I know there are gomg to be 

very comf~rtable at it," explains · Christian. 
times when I won't do things that 1Hunter. "I like the many things it re-"I feel that the different religions should do as a Christian," he saysquires me to do and 1 really enjoy really don't make a difference," Hun­somberly. "But I know that I can al­being involved in the game the way 1 ter says. "I feel that becoming the ways come back to my faith and that am. There's no way I would ever best Christian you can possibly the Lord will always forgive me for want to go back to split-end after become, that's the difference. And I 

it." 

playing wingback." feel being in this Catholic environ-
The transition to wingback is only ment here at Notre Dame could help When it ('Omcs to living the life of one of several changes and events me become the best Christian that I the "perfect" Christian, Hunter may which have occurred in Hunter's life could become. And I thought I could bt· just as lacking as the rest ofus. But the past several months. Over the become a better Christian by being a when it comes to attaining perftc­summer Tony joined six other col-Catholic." lion on the football Held. no one lege football players, most notably Although his internal debate comes closer than number 85. All it Art Schlichter of Ohio State. in a whether to convert covered a span take;:!> is a little faith. 
1Rebounding from Purdue;preparing for MSUI 
.. 
There's not much a coach can do or say to ease the pain 
after the heartbreaking loss we suffered at Purdue last Satur­
day. It was a game ofemotional highs and lows for both teams 
and for us it ended on the lowest possible note. 
What made the defeat so difficult to accept was that our 
players showed such great determination in driving 50 yards 
in only 57 seconds for the go-ahead touchdown only to be 
stunned minutes later by a series ofgreat plays by Purdue and 
some last second heroics by Scott Campbell and Steve 
Bryant. 
On our own drive it took Phil Carter, our fine tailback, just 
three plays to go half the length of the football field. His tina! 
30 yards for the touchdown was an excellent display of his 
running ability. Unfortunately. Phil has seen limited action so 
far this year because ofa pulled hamstring he suffered on the 
first day offall practice. 
Purdue, ofcourse, must be given a world ofcredit for the way they were able to travel 80 yards in almost two-and-one half minutes, and to their quarterback Scott Campbell for coming up with the key plays that kept the drive alive. His final two passes, one for the touchdown and the other for the two-point conversion, were picture perfect. And when you consider all the pressure he was under in both situations, his performance becomes all the more remarkable. 
As some can imagine, our lockerroom was a solemn place following the game. Everyone had that empty feeling that comes after losing a close, hard-fought game. It is a feeling that stays with you until you win again. It is also a feeling that should serve as extra motivation for the next game. 
I felt in the second half we moved the ball rather consis­


tently but we just couldn't get it into the end zone. Four 
times we had the ball inside Purdue's 35-yard line and didn't 
get any points. and we·ve got to do better than that. 
Defensively, we have to tighten up things and get a little 
more pressure on the quarterback. Our secondary didn't do a 
bad job ofcovering but we;: gave Campbell too much time and 
he often made the play good by either throwing on the run or 
running himself. Even so, we did some good things at times. 
We stopped Purdue three times on fourth down, and even 
when they got down to our,one-yard line in the last minute of 
the game, we got great efforts on the tirst three downs, even 
pushing them back seven yards. But Campbell's fourth down 
pass play was the bt::ginning of the end. 
This week we will be playing Michigan State, our third Big 
Ten team in a row and the first of five consecutive home 
games in the next six weeks. 
Michigan State's quarterback, john Leister, is much the same kind ofplayer that Purdue's Campbell is, so our secon­dary and defensive line will again be severely tested. So far this season, Leister has completed 42 of 93 passes for ·553 yards and he has some excellent receivers in Daryl Turner. 
Ted jones and Otis Grant. 
O~te ofour big concerns, however, will be the health ofour defensive unit since there arc some starters still on the doubtful list because ofinjuries. Two ofthe players. lineback­er joe Rudzinski and deti:nsive end Pat Kramer misst:d the Purdue game and may not he r<:ady to play this week. Two others, defensive tackle Bob Clasby and cornerback john Krimm, may have to sit out our game against the Spartans. Offensively, we will be without the services of left guard Randy Ellis, who was unable to make the trip last week, and Dave Condeni. our split end who underwent surgery Sunday after sustaining a knee injury in last Saturday's game. 
Because there are a number of doubtful performers we will in all likelihood move other players up from the junior varsity team. We were able to get a numbt:r of these players some playing time last Sunday when they played against the Purdue reserves. Playing a four or tlve game schedule gives the junior varsity actual playing experience, the kind of ac­tion they normally cannot get during pranicc week. Our coaches then have an opportunity to vit:w the films and arc able to check on the progress ofeach player. advancing those that demonstrate they are capable ofhdping out in positions that need added depth on the varsity. It also give!> the players something to look forward to after putting in a lot of work helping to prepare the varsity for an upcoming game. The fun ofplaying in a game at any level is the reward for all the time spent on the practice Held. 
The game following a ·defeat becomes a double challenge for any team. Not only does i/ have to overcome the op­ponent, but there's the further challenge to prove to itself that it can overcome adversity. Good teams do both. 


~---------­
The Irish Extra -Michigan State Saturday, October 3, 1981 -page 11 

Tbe Notre Dame ,Harcbing Band is related story• at right. (photo by Chery•I Er­celebrating its 13 5tb year todt~J'. See telt) 
Kicks 

continuedfrom page 9 
yard tield goal. Those were the only points his ·team would score in a 27-3 thrashing, but th_c kick was good enough to get Anderson in the record book as having tied the distance mark in the stadium. Only Dave Reeve's 53-yardcr in a 31-10 Notre Dame loss to Pittsburgh had ever gone that distance. 
·Both left-footers, Oliver and Anderson are familiar with long field goal tries. In the 
' regular season, Oliver was 2-2 from the other side of midfield, while Anderson has hit 6 of his 17 tries at SO yard~> or more during his career. In fact, the Dane. a double major in (il·rman and communications at MSU, once trkd to c4ual the NCAA record in a game against Ohio State. The 67-yard attempt fell just short. however. 
"lie really can do it all." Watl·rs claims with­out hesitation." In fact. hl·'s only had one kick­ott' n·turned all year long, for juM I I yards. Ik'~ simply amazing." 
Anderson hopes to take his amazing act on the road, and straight to the NFL, after gradua­tion. 
"I want to make the pros hecausl· I love to kick." hl· says. "And to earn money for some­thing I enjoy so much." 
Then: arc those kickers who spend thdr 
' ' ' Carter 

colllilluetlfrom pa~w 10 
posed. They callnl a coupk uftimn and madl· 
llll" kd likl· I wa~ neednl. but I would have to prove mysdf. I liked that hl·ctusc too many things were given to nw out west. As a junior in high school! ru~lwd l(lr morl· than 1600 yards and proceeded to have a terrible senior year. I was still namnl to the all-State team and Sl'\Tral all-American tl·ams. It was really ridiculous. That's why I liked Notre bamc. I was tired ofbdng spoikd." 
Carter proved himsdf early, playing in all hut two ganll's as a freshman gaining l-iS yards on !."' carrks tiJr a S.·i yard average. His ctl(lrts earnnl him the Hering Award each of tlw last two springs as top otl'cnsive back in spring drills. I lis 8!.2 yards last year is the I I th hl·st season total in Notre Dame history. 
Professional football is a dclinite po~>sibility for Carter after graduation. However, major­ing in communication, he is interested in busi­nl·ss public rclations, preferably in the state of Washington. 
"I would delinitcly like to give pro football a shot, but I don't have to rely on it. I figure if something happens, God had a reason for it happening." 
time hoping the outcome ofa game will come down to the accuracy ofone oftheir kicks. 
Both these men are confident, but would rather sec their team win than their own name in another record book. As Oliver says, "I hope we win every game by three touch­downs." 
Should things work out differently, however, for either side, two ofthe nation's best placekickers will be on the sidelines, and ready tifComc in to insure victory at a mo­ment's notice. 
• • • Eager 
continuedfrom page 9 
tacular performance in last sca~>on's 26-21 win over MSU, rushing one yard shy of Notre Dame's single-game mark of 255 yards. After missing most ofthe first two games with a hamstring pull this season, Carter returned to his all-American form against Purdue last Saturday with a I 13 yard effort. 
Quarterback Tim Koegel, fullback john Sweeney and wingback Tony Hunter all get the call again in the backticld Saturday, though freshmen runners Chris Smith and Mark Brooks looked good last week and should play. Both have moved up to second team on the depth chart. 
The dcfl·nsl· has been plagued by injuries, 
wreaking havoc with Faust's platooning on 
the line. They'll have a tough time keeping the 
Spartans from scoring, since MSU kicker Mor­
ten Anderson has connected on 16 of his last 
.W licld goals. Seven of those have been from 
SO yards or more, including last week's 63­
yard Big Ten record breaker against Ohio 
State. 
Despite Notre Dame's slow ~>tart, Faust hasn't pushl·d any panic buttons yet. "\X'e're a good football team. We simply have to stop climinating the little mistakes. But wc'n· get­ting there -one of these days, we're just going to explode." 
Irish fans hope the fireworks begin Satur­day. 
IR1S111TEMS -Guard Randy Ellis and cor­nerback John Krimm will probably miss a few more games with knee sprains... Tackle Pat Kramer (shoulder), Bub Clasby (ankle) and linebackerJoe Rudzinski (shoulder) are doubtful for tomorrow's contest...Jeff Lucken returned to the line-up at right end behind Kevin Griffith versus Purdue, and should sec action tomorrow...also returning is Tim Tripp, though he's been moved from wingback to split end due to the loss of Dave Con­deni...Tackle Mike Liebcnstein may be out for the year with a congenital back problem. 

135 years 
Band celebrates anniversary 
By ROBERT WALSH 
Sports Writer 
The Marching Band of the Fighting lrish is celebrating its 135th anniversary ofcon­tinuous existence. The band has experienced a memorable and eventful past. The 1981 ver­sion looks forward to continuing that tradi­tion with the sense ofcohcsivencss and enthutiasm that has long been typical ofNotrc Dame bands. The first documented evidence ofa Notrc Dame band dates back to commencement of 1846. The band has played at "the circle" at the entrance of thc Univer­sity for students leaving in every war since thc Civil War. It played a bcnctlt concert for the victims of the Chicago Firc in 1871 and the band was giving conccrts for years before Theodore Thomas cstablished the Chicago Symphony Orchcstra. 
In 1887 Notrc Dame played its first football game and the band was on hand, and the group has not missed a home game since. The Notrc Dame band was among thc first in the United States to perform percision drills and picturc formations during the prc-game and halftime ft:stivities. 
Saint Mary's girls were added to the mcm­bcrship in 1970 and the group expanded its cocducational policy whcn thc University bcgan admitting women in 1972. The band was dcclarcd a "Landmark ofAmerican Music" in 1976 by the National Music Council and the Indiana Music Educators Association. Thus it is easy to see how rich a tradition the organization has. 
Thc prcsent director is Dr. Robert O'Brien, who has been the man in charge sincc 1952. The faculty assistant dircctor is Mr. Jamcs Phil­lips who received that appointment in 1965. 
Seniorjoe Wren is this year's president. He feels one ofthe most important factors ofthe Marching Band is unity. "The band here al­ways has been a highly spirited group," When says, "and this is because of the unity ofband members. This year we have 220 in the Marching Band, including 65 freshmen. We try to plan various functions among band members to try to promote togetherness." 
Wren says the band will continue to strive ' 
for excellence while planning a few new 
things. "We've already played at Michigan, 
and ofcourse we'll continue to play at all the 
home games and a possible bowl game if the 
Irish arc selected. We're always expanding 
our program. In fact, during this week's game 
against Michigan State, we plan on using a new 
post-game formation." 
This year's drum major is junior Toni Faini, the second woman in a~> many years to lead the band on the field. Last year, Saint Mary's senior Unda Ba.tista was the first female drum major in the group's history. 
Faini feels the cohesiveness and spirit ofthe band arc very important. "We're together a lot, because we practice as a group from two to three hours a day, live days a week," she < says. "We get to know each other really wdl o~nd become the closest offriend~>. This is more than a band that marchl·s on to a Held." 
Ifthey dedicate so much time each day to band practice, how do band members still find time to socialize? "To me, this is a social group," responds Faini, "an outlet from 
Notre Dame Marching Band Program for Half-time Notre Dame vs. Michigan State 
The History of the Marching Band 
Radetzky March and American Patrol 
Strauss 
Lassus Tror:nbone 
Henry Fillmore 
The Semper Fidelis March 
John Philip Sousa 
The Notre Dame Victory March 
Shea 
The band will play a concert in front of the Administration Building at noon. Step-off for the stadium will follow at 72:45 p.m. The bans will march back to Washington Hall im­mediately after the game. 
o~cademics. Each section, plus the whole band, has mixers and get-togethcrs. 1 still tind some time to do other things. And, since I really have to manage my time effectively, I think the band helps me prepare for studying." 
Maria Cafarelli, a sophomore, plays clarinet 
.....

and is aware ofthe price ofexcellence. "Participation in the band takes a lot of time, because besides group drills we have to practice individually," she asserts. "But 1con· sider it time well spent. I wouldn't trade it for anything!" 
Many freshmen were pleasantly surprised by the unity and enthusiasm surrounding this group. Theresa Schwcbcl, who also plays the clarinet, is typical of this sentiment. "Before I came here, 1wa~> in awe of the tradition and (Jrestigc of the hand and this school. I didn't think that I would ever be a part ofit. But after I made the band, it seemed likl· I immediately found 200 friends. Now I'm always with hand 
·people and thl· hand has bccollll' a big part of 111 y life." 
Big Tim Marsball is shown hereapplying defensive pressure as be crashes tbrou!(b 
MSU's offensive line. (photo by john Macor) 
Saturday, October 3, 1981 -page 12
The Irish Extra -Michigan State 
Fighting Irish vs. Spartans 
GAME: Ftghting Irish vs. Michigan State Spartans 
SITE: Notre Dame Stadium (capacity 59,075) TIME: 1:30 p.m. EST Saturday, October 3, 1981 TV-RADIO: Metrosports Replay Network 
Harry Kalas and George Connor 9 a.m. Sunday-WNDU-TV Notre Dame-Mutual Radio Network Tony Roberts and AI Wester WNDU-AM 1500 WN DU-TV Channel 16 Tom Dennin and Jeff Jeffers 

SERIES: Notre Dame 29, Michigan State 16, Tie 1 LAST MEETING: Sept. 27, 1980 at East Lansing (N D 26. MSU 21) TICKETS: Game is sold out 
e tattsttcs 
ND  OPP  RECEIVING  G  NO YDS AVG TD LG  DEFENSE  TMTL-YDS PBU  FR BK  
910  1031  Masztak  3  8  128 16.0  1  33  Crable  47  4-20  1  1  0  
198  217  Hunter  3  8  119 14.9  0  33  Zavagnin  32  1-7  2  0  0  
4.6  4.8  Condem  3  4  49  12.2  1  21  Toran  19  3-8  2  0  0  
303 3  343 7  Sweeney  2  3  57  19.0  0  38  Duerson  18  1-3  4  0  0  
16-165  17-133  Boushka  3  2  38  19.0  0  25  Knmm  18  0-0  2  0  0  
4-0  6-2  Brooks  2  2  17  8.5 0  11  Clasby  17  2-10  1  0  0  
0  0  Bell  3  1  12  12.0  0  12  Naylor  15  0-0  0  0  0  
44  51  Moriarty  3  1  7  7.0 1  7  Griffith  14  0-0  0  1  0  
21  31  Mosley  1  1  7  7.0 0  7  Gramke  13  1-7  0  0  0  
21  14  Bone  11  0-0  0  0  0  
2  6  NOTRE DAME  3  30  434 14.5  3  38  Autry  11  1-3  0  0  0  
40-14  49-12  OPPONENTS  3  22  410 18.6  3  71  Belden  10  1-6  0  0  0  
.350  . 245  Marshall  10  3-15  1  0  c  
90.23  89:37  PUNTING  G  NO YDS AVG  LG  Rudzinski  8  1-3  0  0  0  
Mmutes per Game  30.08  29 52  Bock  8  0-0  0  0  0  
K1el  3  20  786 39.3  53  Johnson  7  0-0  1  l)  0  
RUSHING  G  NO YDS AVG TD LG  . ------------- Roggeman  6  1-2  0  0  0  
NOTRE DAME  3  20  786 39 3  53  Shields  4  0-0  0  0  0  
42  196  4.7  2 30  OPPONENTS  3  18  763 42 4  60  Brown  4  0-0  0  0  0  
21  120  5.7  0 41  Liebenstein  3  0-0  0  0  0  
23 20  111 55  4.8 1 22 2.7 1 13  INTRET  NO YDS AVG TD LG  Adell Moriarty  2 2  0-0 0-0  0 0  0 0  0 0  
9 6 5 1  30 15 11 6  3.3 0 2.5 0 2.2 0 6.0 0  8 9 4 6  Krimm Toran Johnson  1 2  11 3 0  11.0 0 1.5 0 0.0 0  11 3 0  Cichy Carter Murphy Gann  0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0  1 0 0 0  0 0 0 0  0 0 0 0  
2 1  0 -3 -9  0.0 0 -3.0 0 -9.0 0  0 0 0  NOTRE DAME OPPONENTS  4 5  14 44  35 0 8.8 0  11 29  Larkin Masztak  0-0 o-o.  0 0  0 0  0 0  
11  -56  -5.1  0  7  PUNT RET  NO YDS AVG TD LG  NOTRE DAME OPPONENTS  285 19-84 285 14-76  15 7  2 0  0 0  
142 157  476 621  3.4 4.0  4 4  41 26  Duerson Knmm  5 1  38 5  7 6 0 5.0 0  12 5  
SCORING  GTD  PAR-PAS  FG TF  
CO  PCT INT YDS TD  NOTRE DAME  6  43  7.2 0  12  

 OPPONENTS  13  65  50  0  15  Carter  3  2  0-0  0-0 0  0-0  12  
26 3  605 2 .375 2  401 2 29 1  KICKOFF RET  NO YDS AVG TD LG  Moriarty Hunter  3 3  0-0 0-0  0-0 0 0-0 0  0-0 0-0  6 6  
1 1000 0 000 0 .000  0 1 0  4 0 0  0 0 0  Bell Howard Knmm  3 1 2  69 23 4  23.0 0 23.0 0 2.0 0  26 23 3  Condeni Masztak Oliver Smith  3 3 3 2  1 1 0 1  0-0 0-D 6-7 0-0  0-0 0 0-0 0 0-0 0 0-0 0  0-0 0-0 0-2 0-0  6 6 6 6  
30 22  536 .367  5 4  434 3 410 3  NOTRE DAME OPPONENTS  6 8  96 155  16.0 194  0 0  26 24  ND OPP  3 3  7 7  6-7 2-2  0-0 0 1-5 0  0-2 1-3  48 49  


NOTRE DAME OFFENSE MICHIGAN STATE OFFENSE 
POS NO PLAYEA HT WT CL POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL QB 14 Tim Koegel 6-4 205 Sr. QB 18 John Leister 6-3 191 Jr. 5 Blair Kiel 6-1 195 So 14 Bryan Clark 6-2 198 Sr. TB 22 Phil Carter 5-10 200 Jr. HB 20 Aaron Roberts 6·1 183 Fr. 
32 ~hris Sm1th 6-2 220 Fr. 33 Lance Hawk1ns 6-1 202 Jr. FB 33 John Sweeney 6-2 215 Jr. FB 41 D. McClelland 6-1 219 Jr. 35 Mark Brooks 6-3 215 Fr. 5 Tony Ellis 6-2 210 Jr WB 85 Tony Hunter 6-5 220 Jr. FL 9 Otis Grant 6-2 193 Jr. 8 Greg Bell 6-0 205 So. 5 Samson Howard 5-8 170 Sr. SE 17 Mike Boushka 6-3 200 Sr. SE 38 Daryl Turner 6-3 190 So. 
83 Mike Favorite 6-4 195 So. 21 Ted Jones 6-2 180 Jr RT 71 Phil Pozderac 6-9 270 Sr. RT 61 Walt Schramm 6·4 245 Jr. 52 John Putzstuck 6-5 262 Jr. 79 Jim Bob Lamb 6-6 275 Jr. 
RG 74 Mike Shiner 6-8 270 Jr. RG 71 Marv Mantas 6·4 256 Sr. 
75 Larry Williams 6-6 240 Fr. 57 Steve Blank 6-2 240 Jr. c 57 Mark Fischer 6-4 245 Jr. C 56 Tom Piette 6-4 248 Sr. 68 Barry Young 6-5 245 So. 53 Ken Stockwell 6-1 218 Jr. 
LG 53 Larry Kissner 6-4 225 Sr. LG 51 Joe Jacquemaln 6-4 239 Sr. 61 Mark LeBlanc 6-2 248 Jr. 76 Randy Lark 6-2 252 Jr. LT 64 Tom Thayer 6-5 265 Jr. L T 60 Jack Kirkling 6·1 258 Sr. 
70 Neil Maune 6-5 255 So. 668 Scott Auer 6-6 238 So. TE 86 Dean Masztak 6-4 240 Sr. TE 95 AI Kimichik 6-2 210 Sr. 95 Pete Buchanan 6-3 230 Jr. 87 TerryTanker 6-3 215 Jr 
p 5 Blair Kiel 6-1 195 So. P 2 Ralf Mojsiejenko 6·2 175 Fr. 10 Bnan Whelan 6-0 185 Sr. 3 Rich Schano 6-0 193 Sr. PK 3 Harry Oliver 5-11 185 Sr. PK 2 Mort Anderson 6-2 195 Sr. 
4 M1ke Johnston 5-11 185 Jr. 3 R1ch Schario 6-0 193 Sr KO 40 Steve Cichy 6·2 210 Sr. KO 2 Mort Anderson 6·2 195 Sr. 4 Mike Johnston 5'1 185 Jr. 3 Rich Schario 6-0 193 Sr PR 23 Dave Duerson PR 27 Thomas Morris 19 John Krimm KR 20 Aaron Roberts KR 28 GregBell 42 Derek Hughes 24 Joe Howard 9 OtisGrant 
NOTRE DAME DEFENSE MICHIGAN STATE DEFENSE 
LE 38 John Autry 6-2 230 So. LE 91 Smiley Creswell 6-4 240 Sr. 36 Tony Belden 6-2 230 Sr. 69 Allen Moore 6-6 260 So L T 77 Tim Marshall 6·4 250 So. L T 55 Howard McAdoo 6-2 234 Jr. 
94 Tom Bock 6-4 255 Sr. 74 Calvin Perkins 6-4 266 Jr 
RT 92 Joe Gramke 6-4 245 Sr. RT 86 Johnny Haynes 6·2 234 Jr. 91 Bob Clasby 6-5 260 Jr . 49 Mike Hoffman 6-2 241 So. RE 56 Kevin Griffith 6·3 240 Sr. RE 83 Joe Stevens 6-5 235 Jr. 
88 Jeff Lueken 6-5 245 Jr. 89 Ike Griffin 6-5 250 Sr 
SLB 37 Rick Naylor 6-3 220 So. OLB 39 George Cooper 6·3 215 Sr. 51 Joe Rudzinski 6-3 225 Jr. 98 Richard Babich 6-4 205 So. MLB 43 Bob Crable 6·3 225 Sr. MLB 43 Steve Madilow 6·1 227 Sr. 
49 Jack Shields 6-2 220 Jr. 77 Terry Bailey 6-4 235 Sr. WLB 46 Mark Zavagnin 6-2 225 Jr. OLB 54 Carl Banks 6-6 222 So. 45 John Rice 6-3 220 Jr. 45 Chns Bell 6-3 228 Jr. WCB 30 Stacey Toran 6·4 195 So. LCB 28 Jim Burroughs 6-1 190 Sr. 41 Mike Masini 6-2 200 Sr. 47 Carter Kamana 6-0 180 So. SCB 19 Chris Brown 6·1 6 1 RCB 48 Nate Hannah 6·2 181 So. 19 John Krimm 6-2 190 Sr. 7 Chris VanPelt 6-3 190 Jr SS 23 Dave Duerson 6·3 200 6-3 SS 35 T. Cunningham 6·2 190 So. 40 Steve Cichy 6-2 210 Sr. 29 Carl Williams 6-3 208 Jr. FS 26 Rod Bone 6-2 200 Jr. FS 27 Thomas Morris 6-0 180 Sr. 27 Joe Johnson 6-2 190 fr. 31 Darryl D1xon 6-1 195 So. 


Notre Dame (1-2) Sept. 12 beat LSU. 27-9 Sept. 191ost to Michtgan. 25-7 Sept. 26 lost to Purdue, 15-14 Oct. 3 MICHIGAN STATE Oct 10 FLORIDA STATE Oct 24 SOUTHERN CAL Oct. 31 NAVY Nov. 7 GEORGIA TECH Nov. 14 at Air Force Nov. 21 at Penn State Nov. 28 at Miami (Fla.) 
Sept 12 lost to ILLI . 27-17 Sept. 19 lost to Ohto State, 27-13 Sept 26 beat BOWLING GREEN. 10-7 Oct. 3 at Notre Dame Oct. 10 MICHIGAN Oct 17 WISCONSIN Oct 24 at Purdue Oct 31 INDIANA Nov. 7 at Northwestern Nov. 14 MINNESOTA Nov. 21 at Iowa 

The 
Peerless Prognosticators 

Each week, The Ob­server sports staff matches wits with Jim­my the Greek's published line. Two wnters faJied to subm1t 

OiRIS IIIEEDLES MIKE OLENIK SKIP DESJARDIN 
picks, and will be 0-18 Sports Writer Sports Wnter Assistant Sports Editor Sports Writer Spor.s Editor SportsWrrter Sports Wnter Sports Writer 

this week. 

28-25-2 .528 28-25-2 .528 27-26-2 509......,_ 24-19-2.453 24-29-2 .453 23-30-2 .434 22-31-2.415 22-31-2 415 North Carolina over GEORGIA TECH by 12 Heels Heels Heels no pick Heels Heels no PICk Heels Army over HARVARD by 2 Knights Kmghts _Kmghts no pock Cnmson Cnmson no pick Cnmson OHIO STATE over Florida State by 8 Seminoles Buckeyes Buckeyes no pick Buckeyes BucKeyes no pick Buckeyes Navy over YALE by 1o Middies Ells Middies no pick Middies Middies no pick Mtddtes 
ILLINOIS over Minnesota by2 Gophers Gophers Gophers no pick Gophers Gophers no pick Gophers Iowa over NORTHWESTE~N by 20 Hawks Hawks Hawks no pick Hawks Hawks no p1ck Hawks ALABAMA over Mississippi by 15 Tide T1de Rebels no pick T1de Tide no pick T1de Michigan over INDIANA by 17 Wolverines Wolvennes Wolverines no pick Wolvennes Wolvennes no pick Hoosiers MISSISSIPPI STATE over Missouri by 5 Bulldogs T1gers Bulldogs no p1ck T1gers Bulldogs no p1ck Bulldogs OKLAHOMA over Iowa State by 17 Cyclones Sooners Sooners no pick Sooners Cyclones no pick Sooners Purdue over WISCONSIN by 3 Boilers 6adgers Badgers no pick Badgers Boilers no p1ck Bo11ers Southern Cal over OREGON STATE by 24 Trojans Beavers Trojans no p1ck Beavers TroJans no p1ck Beavers 
WASHINGTON over Arizona State by 4 1iusk1es Devils Husk1es no pick Devils. HuskieS no pick Huskies UCLA over Colorado by 22 Bruins Bruins Bruins no pick Bruins Buffs no pick BrUJns 

MIAMI (FLA.) over Vanderbilt by 18 Humcanes Hurricanes no p1ck Humcanes Humcanes no p1ck Hurncanes
Hurncanes Pittsburgh over SOUTH CAROLINA by 7 Panthers Panthers Panthers no p1ck Gamecocks Panthers no p1ck Gamecocks 
• 
Arkansas over TEXAS CHRISTIAN by 1 0 Hogs Hogs Hogs no p1ck Frogs Hogs no p1ck Hogs 
NOTRE DAME over Michigan State by 20 lnsh Irish Irish no p1ck lnsh lnsh no pick Spartans 

