
Irish Extra page 7
' ' ' 

VOL. XVI, :".10. 36 an mdC"pendem studf"nt newspaper· serving notre dame and saint mary's FRIDAY,OCTOBER9, 19tH 
American delegation departs for Cairo 
WASHINGTON (AP) With Reagan also stressed that the United three ti>rmer presidents at his side States' relationship wtih Egypt "is yt·stt·rday, President Reagan said the from nation to nation," an indication 
Amt·rican people stand together that it would not be affected by with the peopk of Egypt in mourn· Sadat's death. 
ing Anwar Sadat and in Haig was the ranking admnistra­"rededicating ourselves to the cause tion official in the U.S. delegation to for which ht· gave his life." Sadat's funeral. 
In a brid eert·mony at the south The three former presidents met side of tht· White House. Reagan with Reagan at the White House and bade farewell to the American then flew by helicopter from the 
dckgation to Sadat's funeral tomor· South Lawn to Andrews Air Force row = a tkkgation that included Base, where they boarded a fi1rmer Presilknts Jimmy Carter, presidential jetliner and left about Gerald Ford and Richard Nixon. 7:'i0 p.m. EDT for the tlight to Egypt. 
Nixon stood to Reagan's im· It was the first time in recent mediate right, Carter to the prcsi· memory that a current president dent's left and Ford next to Nixon. and three predecessors had 
Directing remarks at those who gathered at the same place. 
rejok'cd at the Egyptian president's Carter, on his way from the South death, Rt•agan said, "In life you Lawn to the helicopter, shook hands feared Anwar Sadat, but in death you with several reporters and said "this must fear him more." is a sad occasion." Nixon, looking 
!lours bclilrc the American tanned, and Ford headed straight for the helicopter.
<kkgation left for Cairo. Reagan Acting t~f{yfJtian President Sufi Abu Taleh, President Mubarak as Defense Minister invited the slain Egyptian leader's Reagan also had invited the top second from right. and Depu~v Prime Minister Ha/im Abu Gbazela pled/!,es his continued successor, Hosni Mubarak, on a state four congressional leaders to join Fuad Mohieddin, right, listen along zl'ith Vice legiam·e to Egypt's gor,ernment. (AP photo) 
visit early IH.'Xt year. the delegation but they decided Rt·agan issued the invitation against attending the funeral, as did through Ashraf Ghorbal. the Egyp· Reagan and Vice President Bush, 
Presents legal aspects 
tian ambassador ht:re, when the en· whose aides cited security fears as vov visited the Oval Office yesterday the n·ason. to 'receive Reagan's condolences on The Reagan administration stood the assassination. b,-Haig's statement Wednesday that 
Prof. Rice discusses abortion 
The president. in a voice barely he was encouraged by the con­The professor presented his views and wrong in society, states that audible to reporters, told the ambas· tinuity of Egypt's policies. By SUSAN FLECK 
on why abortion is objectively force wins and that man must follow 
sador that since Sadat's death Tues· "There is every indication the News Staff" 
wrong, based on his work on the the rules set forth by that force. 
day, "dcpn·ssion settles on me. You Egyptian government is moving for· Human Life Amendment as well as St·condly, the secularism of our get busy doing somcthtng, and then ward in its constitutional process," The Thomas More Society 
his writings. present day government has it comes back again. It's a tragedy. said David R. Gergen, Heagan's assis· sponsored Prof. Charles E. Rice from 
Rice presented the legal reasons promoted the neutrality of the 

How useless, how senseless." tant for communications. the Notre Dame Law School in a talk that justify abortion. He spoke to the Court in moral issues, making it im· In a meeting also attended by "He was very kind to reminise concerning the legal ramifications of 
audience of the Supreme Court's possible to determine a case 
Sccn·tary ofState Alexander M. Haig over the recent visit ofPresident and abortion. To an attentive audience 
decisions which declare that a mot· concerning theism, since it docs not 
Jr. and Ri<:hard V. Allen, the presi· in O'Shaughnessy Hall. he spoke for
See SADAT, page 5 her has the right to reproductive take into at·count the aspect of non· 
dent's national securiy adviser, an hour and answered questions. 
privacy, under the Fourteenth theism. The professor pointed out Amendment, and that the unborn that although the ll.S. was initially child is not considered a legal per­founded on a beliefin God, it is now son. Since a human being in this case the state which forms the highest is a non-person, he has no rights, and law. Today's children do not



Egypt tightens security 
is therefore not protected under any recognizt· right or wrong in society. laws. Similar situations have oc· The third trt·nd considered was CAIRO, Egypt (AP) -Egypt killed in attacks. The spokesman said prayer curred in the past, such as the Dred the contraceptive mentality. assun·d foreign dignitaries Wednes­MENA said three of the Moslems services for Sadat will be in a Scott decision and Nazi treatment of Seventy-five percent of married day they will bt· adequately were captured and others were mosque on the grounds of Maadi theJews, according to Rice. couples today usc contraceptives. 
protected during President Anwar being sought by police. military hospital in southern Cairo As early as 196'i, married couples
He further explained the Supreme 

Sadat's state funeral. Officials also Security sources had earlier said where Sadat died. Surrounded by Court's pro-abortion ruling by in· were allowed the privacy to make said "somt·" policemen and one anti-riot police fired on Moslems concrete walls and iron fences, the 
dicating three social trends which their own decision in this matter. 
Moslem extremist were killed who gathered after dawn prayers in hospital grounds arc heavily affect the Court's decision-making. In disagreement with the during clashes in the southern city violation of a ban on meetings Legal positivism, a theory that no of Assyut. imposed during the one-year state of See FUNERAL, page 4 one is capable of determining right See RICE, page 5 
"They will be protected," Egypt's emergency decreed after Sadat's as­undersecretary for foreign affairs, sassination. Ossama cl-Baz, said of tht· world Fundamentalists have frequently leaders who arc due here for tomor­clashed with police and with mem­row's services. "The fact an incident bers of Egypt's minority Coptic 
Farmers employ Jamaicans 
(Tuesday's assassination ) took place Christian community in Assyut over 
docs not mean the country is the last two years. Egyptian officials By STEVEN MORRISON bag agai t nst his chest, in tem­apple harwst. More than 6,000 work unsafe." have linked Islamic fundamentalist 
Associated Press Writer peratures 40 degrees cooler than it throughout the Northeast apple The original funeral plans to the assassination ofSadat, who or·
and ever gets in St. Elizabeth, jamaica. region, picking for the basic wage of 
route have been simplified to dcred several Moslem and Coptic AUBURN. Maine -The business But that's OK with Walker and the .S3.44 an hour, out working fast leaders arrested last month to quell
facilitate security. is apples and the aim is money. but in other Jamaicans, because they earn enough to earn up to SiO a day on EI-Baz also told a news conference sectarian violence. 
the I 0 years ]amaicans have picked more in a week. S I 7i. than they do the additional piecework pay. that "we understand the reason why A presidential spokesman said the apples for Eugene and Lois Wal: working at home for a month. The Nl'w England Apple Council Presidt·nt Reagan is not coming." funeral tomorrow will be confined lingford, the profits have extended And it's fine for the Wallingfords, arranges work for the Jamaicans 
Tht· White House said Reagan would to Nasr Stadium and the adjacent beyond the ledger. through a Kingston-based organiza· not attend the funeral because of parade grounds where Sadat was 
In addition to dedicated work and tion called the British West Indies security considerations. killed Tuesday. The stadium and easy-going friendliness, the FRIDAY 
Central Labor Group. He also said police repulsed an cf. parade area arc in Nasr City, a nor­Jamaicans have brought the Wal· Americans and Canadians used to fort by "a few young men" to storm theastern suburb about three miles lingfords a new understanding ofan· 
do the job, but Americans got lazy two police stations in Assyut, a city from the center ofCairo. other culture to Maine. and Canadians have turned to more
FOCUS 

240 miles south ofCairo on the Nile The change of plans was to Walter Walker first came to the profitable industrial jobs, said River and known for its Islamic fun· protect dignitaries at the funeral. Wallingfords' IIi-acre orchard atop Eugt·ne Wallingford. a slight. wry, damcntalism. They include Secretary of State picturesque Perkins Ridge in 1971. because a Jamaican will pick eight iO-ycar-old Maine farmer who 
The official Middle East News Alexander M. Haig Jr., former Presi· For six weeks each fall, the 4i-year­times as many apples as the oc­grows apples where his father grew Agenry said one :vloslcm wa'l killed dents jimmy Carter, Gerald R. Ford old jamaican farmer docs what few casional American who gives it a them since the 1920s. and "some" police were killed and and Richard M. Nixon, Israeli Prime Americans want to do. serious shot. "The Jamaican is the best picker wounded in the attack. Security Minister Menachem Begin, French He's in the orchard by 8, up and For the past I 0 years, Ma4ne's 24 I've ever seen," Wallingford said. sources in Cairo said at least two of· President Francois Mitterrand and down a 22-foot ladder lugging 30 largest apple producers have hired 
See FOCUS, page 4

fleers and I 0 other people were Britain's Prince Charles. pounds of apples in a tin and canvas about 4i0 Jamaicans for each fall's 
af. 



News Brie,b_ 
Frlday,october9, 19s1 -page2 

====~======~============================== 
by The ObJerver and The Associated Press 

The student center blues
Edward M. Gaffney, associate director oft~ Center 

for Constitutional Studies at Notre Dame since 1977, has been ap­pointed director by University Provost Timothy O'Meara. The provost also announced that the center's previous director, Philip R. Moots, would assume the position of chairman of the center's ad­visory council, which O'Meara himselfhas ccupied since 1979. Gaf­fney holds a).D. from Catholic University and an LLM. from Harvard Law School. Before coming to Notre Dame he was an attorney with the U.S. Department of Justice's office of policy planning. -The Observer 
The new leader ofEgypt, Vice President Hosni 

Mubarak, pledged in his first American television interview to ad­here to the Camp David peace accords with Israel. "We are com­mitted to what we have already signed," Mubarak said in the interview with CBS correspondent Walter Cronkite broadcast last night. The interview was filmed in Mubarak's home. Mubarak ap­peared with a bandaged left hand, which he said was hurt when he was pushed down in the confusion that surrounded the shooting of President Anwar Sadat on Tuesday. Asked if he had any ideas on ne'v approaches to foreign or domestic affairs, Mubarak said, "We have to follow the same procedure and the same line." Reminded that he 
won a reputation as a strict disciplinarian as head ofthe Egyptian Air Force, Mubarak replied, "Correct. I like discipline." Asked what he feared, Mubarak replied, "I fear nothing." -AP 
CBS News special correspondent walter 

Cronkite has quit the board ofdirectors of Pan American World Air­
ways rather than restrict his reporting on the U.S. space program. His 
resignation was announced yesterday by Pan Am. Cronkite wa~ in 
Egypt covering the assassination and funeral of President Anwar 
Sadat, and was not available for comment. The former "CBS Evening 
News" anchorman, in a letter ofresignation released by Pan Am, said 
CBS news had removed him from coverage of the space program 
before the first space shuttle flight in April because of the airline's 
relationship with the National Aeronautics and Space Administra­tion. Cronkite joined the Pan Am board March 9, just after he had stepped down as "Evening News" anchorman. -AP 
PresidentReagan pickedupmore Senate sup­

port yesterday for his sale ofAWACS radar planes to Saudi Arabia but an Associated Press count shows the lineup still against him, 57 to 
30. Republican Nancy Kassebaum of Kansas met with Reagan and then became the eighth senator in two days to speak out in behalfof the S8.5 billion package. "I think the assassination ofPresident Sadat makes it crucial that we reach out to all moderate governments" in the region, the senator said. She said the United States should make the sale and "take a gamble that it will be productive" in enlisting Saudi support for the U.S. Middle East peace initiative. But the AP count now shows 50 senators committed against the sale and anoth­er seven others leaning against it. It shows 21 senators firmly in favor of the sale and another nine leaning that way. The remaining 13 senators say they are uncommitted. -AP 
The United States spent millions over the past four administrations in an attempt to help ensure the safety ofEgyp­tian President Anwar Sadat, slain Tuesday as he reviewed a military parade in Cairo. The assistance, including the loan of AWACS radar planes to protect Sadat on some of his travels, was confirmed Thursday by past and present administration officials. "We provided training and assistance over various times over the past few years," 
said Dean Fischer, the State Department spokesman. A high-ranking oflkial of the Carter administration said the United States helped train Sadat's bodyguards, recommended and perhaps provided sen­sor and other intruder detection devices at Sadat's homes, and made available a highly sensitive and secret communications system that guaranteed intercept-free conversations. -AP 
With jury selection complete,defense attor­

neys prepared motions to be heard Monday in the trial of Vickie Dan tiel, accused ofmurdering her estranged husband, former Texas House Speaker Price Daniel]r. Almost three days ofselection ended as an eight-man, four-woman panel was seated Wednesday. Tes­timony was expected to begin next Wednesday. Prosecutors allege Mrs. Daniel killed her husband with a .22-caliber rifle during a bitter quarrel over an impending divorce at their ranch near Liberty, Texas. Mrs. Daniel, 34, pleaded innocent to the murder charge. 
AP 
North Korean AmbassadorJong Myong Su on 

Thursday indicated the son of the current North Korean president would succeed his father. He said at a press conference to mark the 36th anniversary of the founding of the Korean Communist Party: "Comrade Kim .Jong II, the sole successor to the revolutionary cause of the great leader ... the brilliant sun of the communist future, the wise leader of our party and our people presented a lot of new theories and lines in order to complete the revolutionary cause to the end which great comrade (President) Kim II Sung started." It had long been believed the North Korean president was grooming his son to take over, but it had never been officially confirmed. -AP 
Mostly sunnyand continued cool Friday with the high in the low 60s. Increasing cloudiness Friday night with a slight chance of rain. Warmer with the low in the low to mid 40s. Chance of rain Saturday and cool with the high in the upper 50s to low 60s. The chance ofrain is 20 percent Friday night. -AP 
It's been one week now since a group ofour student leaders faced the executive board of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. The Student Body President and Vice-President were there. The Student Onion Director and the chairman of the Hall Presidents' Council were also in attendance. In all, eight ofus were asked to stand before the highly distinguished group in a conference room at the CCE and give an account of the state of student affairs on campus. 
Each student detailed his or her duties and goals as the leader ofa particular student organization, and each of the alumni were duly impressed with the presenta­tions. 
But when all was said and done, the subject which drew the most attention was the continuing dilemma over a modern and functional student center for the Notre Dame campus. 
Bill Lawler, Student Onion director, first raised the sticky subject when he outlined the dismal perfor­mance o(Chautauqua or, as the floundering entity is now known, The Lafortune Club. 
Many ofthe alumni reacted with dismay when Lawler reported that, in spite of the S I 0,000 already coughed up by the University this semester, the big room on the 

In particular, members of the Alumni Association's Student Affairs Committee, inluding John Short, Patty Dondanville, Paul Kruse, and the legendary Nordy Hof­fman, strongly backed up the student view presented by Lawler and Murday. Their support is quite an encourag­ing sign -a sign that points to some important backing by some of the most influential people conneted with Notre Dame. 
Although the success in enlisting alumni support can be considered a major milestone in the seemingly end­less quest of the elusive student center, one obstacle among many still remains. In fact, there probably is no more fundamental obstacle to the actual groundbreak­ing. 
That basic barrier is simply a lack ofconsensus over 

second floor of Lafortune the nature of the proposed continues to draw only student center. meager crowds. We all agree that some­Lawler explained that thing must be done to im­
Chautauqua wasn't in the prove the amount and business of generating quality ofthe social space on profit. It is in the business of campus -especially given 
entertaining the largest pos­the recent influx of 500 ad­sible number ofstudents per ditional women. That is dollar, however. And as far where all agreement seems as meeting that objective is to end. concerned, Chautauqua has Some feel that Lafortune been an unmitigated disas­can be adapted to fit any ter. future needs. Others suggest 
On nights when bands that a new center be built in have been booked, the Stu­a central location on the dent Onion had expected campus, perhaps on the site Chautauqua to be drawing ofthe old fieldhouse once its somewhere around 300 scheduled demolition takes patrons. The actual atten­place. Still ot~ers propose dance figure has on occasion the construction of a stu­

dipped to 30. 

"Why the poor turnout?" the perplexed alumni asked. The committment has been made in terms of seed money from the University, and a stage and sound system have been installed -but still, students are staying away by the hundreds. And Lafortune is located right at the pedestrian center of the campus. 
Essentially, the answer to the problem, as many now realize, is not to continue pouring good money after bad into the Chautauqua White Elephant. Unless the Placement Bureau plans to relocate its center for conducting corporate job interviews, the ballroom of LaFortune will continue to be a half-hearted attempt at an entertainment facility. There are also fundamental questions involving poor acoustics and seating arrange­ments that seem very difficult to overcome without radically altering the aging LaFortune structure itself. 
The consensus among the students and alumni present at la">t Friday's meeting was clear: Notre Dame needs an up-to-date student center to serve the growing needs ofour_s_!u~ent body. 
Design Editor...................... Maura Murphy Lavout Staff.................... Mike McCaughey Jim Keyes Typesetter ............................ Stephen Brown News Editor........................ Tim Vercellotti Copy Editors ........................... Paula Groves Rich Adam Features Layout .............. Anthony Walton Sports Copy Editor.............. Chris Needles Typist ..................................... Oodee Carney Sports Supplement............. Skip Desjardin Greg Swiercz Svstems Control ................... Brut·e Oakley ND Dav Editor........................ Paul McGinn SMC Day Editor............... Mar~· Kay Hogan Ad Design ........................ Fran, Mary. & Co. Photographer ........................ Carrie Koplin Guest Appearances ..................... Monkster Griffin and O"Gill Tracks of my Tears LaGrotta  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday lhrough Friday and on home football Seturdays. except during exam and vacation penods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s Col­lege. Subscriptions may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by writtng The Observer. P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. Second class postage paid at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556.  

dent "mall" in the near section ofGreen Field to contain not only a student center, but also shops and perhaps an alumni visitors center. There is even one proposal that envisions a student center located along Saint Mary's Road near U.S. 31 to serve both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Each of these proposals, and probably several more not listed here, command a close look and present unique opportunities of improving social life here. It goes without mentioning that each step forward in this area is another move ahead in the battle with alcohol abuse and depression among Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
Not all ofthe schemes can be implemented, however. In fact we're lucky if one of the proposals will see the light ofday. It is essential, therefore, that the administra­tion take steps immediately, not to forward any one proposal, but to conduct a serious audit of student, faculty, and alumni preferences in regard to the nature offacilities to be offered in any potential student center. 


......... -------------­
The Observer Friday, October 9, 1981 -page 3 
--~­

t
OCC, J-council serve ND INTERESTED IN STUDYING LAW? :
t 
Fed budget cuts affect SMC financial aid 
By MARK ROLFES 
News Staff 
Saint Mary's College students will 
be hard hit by upcoming federal 
budget cuts in student assistance 
programs, according to SMC Finan· 
cial Aid DirectorJudy Casey. 
Hardest hit will most likely be the 
Guaranteed Student Loan ( GSL) 
program, the most utilized program 
among Saint Mary's students. This 
program features a guaranteed loan 
of 52500 to all students, regardless 
of family income. This loan is inter­
est free until graduation, a very at· 
tractive feature in times of 20 
percent interest rates. 
Reagan has proposed substantial reductions in GSL, as well as Basic Educational Oppurtunity Grants ( BEOG) and National Direct Stu· dl·nt Loans ( NDSL ). The new ap­propriations have yet to pass through Congress, but arc expected to do so in the next week. Casey fears Congress may cut more than Reagan has askt·d for, which leayes the full effect of the Reagan cuts in doubt. 
Casey said that Saint Mary's stu­

dents recievcd a total of S2. 5 million 
in government assistance last year 
with an additional 5500,000 in Saint 
Mary's scholarships, loans and 
grants. The Financial Aid Office is 
asking the college to raise the 
second figure next year to help cus­
hion the effect of the federal cuts. 
Sixty percent of Saint Mary's stu­
dents recieve some assistance from 
federal programs, and Casey es­
timates that between thirty and forty 
percent of them will have problems 
due to the cuts. The Reagan proposal 
dictates that students from families 
with incomes of over 530,000 must 
prove need. 
Another source of aid to college 
students is the College Work Study 
( CWS) program. This funding 
should not be cut too heavily, but 
Casey said that the funding from this 
program has always been deficient. Saint Mary's students have a hard time finding jobs to help out with school costs, according to Casey. 
The cuts in student assistance programs are another part of Reagan's overall budget cuts. He has long claimed that private education is "a privilege and not a right". 

also involved in Neighborhood Roots, a program designed to in­t t
meet with Dean Francia X. Beytagh

troduce students to the South Bend 
t 

community through meetings with tt 
(Notre Dame B.A. 1956)

their neighbors and neighborhood t 
projects. 
tof the University of Toledo .College of Law t 
By GREG O'MEARA 
Student Government 
Editor's note:The following in­stallment is partofa series ofweek­ly updates on Student Government organizations. 
This year Commissioner Kathy Jurado and her Off-Campus Com­mission are working to better com· munication among Notre Dame's off-campus community. 
The Off-Campus Commission oversees the off-campus newsletter, Off the Record, and the off-campus bulletin board located in the lobby of LaFortune Student Center. 
In addition, the commission works with Saint Mary's Off-Campus Council to sponsor social activities and masses. Mass is celebrated every Sunday night at 7:30 p.m. at Bulla Shed and also at 1 I p.m. at Campus View Apartments. 
Not only does the Commission focus on serving off-campus stu· dents, it functions as liason between the University and its surrounding neighborhoods. Together with Campus Life Council, Ms. Jurado ap· pointed a subcommittee to work·on the Northeast neighborhood's problems and needs. 
The off-campus commission is 

When asked about the crime situation, off-campus student Ray 
t
Helfer commented "It's a jungle out there." Ms. Jurado stresses the im· 
t 
portance of taking precautions to secure off-campus homes and of t relying on neighbors, "who are 
t 
probably the best protection stu­dents have." 
t 
Students working this year with 

t
Commissioner Jurado are: Gerry 
t 
-t
friday oct. 9, 1981 at 2:00 pm or 3:30 t In rm. 222 admlnlsratlon building : 
t 

Millman, assistant commissioner; Bill Christopher, crime prevention; 
~----------------1 
Gus Hinojosa, off-campus newslet­ter; Lee Manfred, off-campus sports, and jenny Doran, off-campus mass. 
While the Off-Campus Commis­sion centers around students who live in the surrounding area, Carol Silva's Judicial Council aims at assessing the system of disciplinary action that affects all members ofthe 
Notre  Dame  community.  This  
evaluation  begins  with  hall  chair­ 
men and judicial boards.  

Relationships with rectors and revisions of hall constitutions are the main emphases at the hall level. 
Every month, Hall )-Board chair­men meet to discuss cases and con­cerns ofstudents. Hall chairman and Commissioner Silva also serve as judicial counsellors for students accused of University violations. Be· cause members of the )·Board have more familiarity with the University regulations than the average student does, they maintain a better position to evaluate situations concerning students' rights. 
Silva stresses the importance of student awareness of University regulations. 
Recently the Judicial Council sent flyers to all students outlining the appeals system. 
Ms. Silva said that this year's Judi­cial Council will be strengthened by the coordinatl·d efforts of the Ad· ministration. hall staff and students. 








LowPrices. 

1\1 fa,t ~outh BPnd has a rf''>taurant whf'rf' Football weekends 
you (Jn f'J\.rf'al nict> and not b<'f'f .1bout 

-open at 11:00 a.m.
thP procP. Ban;.lay's MPat & Produ< "· \\'h<'r" 
good food~~ an !'vf'fyday aff.m 

If vou'n• a· pccky ratf'r, Barclay\ i<o thP 
pPrff'< 1 pia< r• for lunch. WP'w got lh<' only
Beefy, charcoal-broiled dinners .. 

Dc•lc BJr en town whrrr> you can build your You'll 'f'<' what wt>'rp talking aboutthP 
own fH'r,on.JII!rd 'andwich_ Perk from our s<'cond you walk in. Meal lockrr~ stuff<'d 
gc.1111 J''ortm<•nt of frP<;h brrad,, < 111'"'"'· wcth your favorite hParty cut'> of fpan, 
hot hJm. hot roa't bc•rf, <old cut<; ,md all tPndPr b<'<'f. Lik<' Sirloin, Rib Evr. PrcmP thl' Pxtra~ Put ct togt>tht>r and wt>'ll chargp Reb And maybe thP brst dam BJrhrqu<' vou by the• oucH P. But wr won't< hJrg<' you 
Reb~ you'vp rvPr tastPd. All slowly roa,t<•d much ovf'r rf'al charcoal to sr>ar in thl' tucn•s an-i <apturr that smokPy, outdoor fiJvor \OU Undress for_ ~inner whc·thr·r you'rrlovP GP!tcng hungry? ThPn tomp to 
""''arong vqur oldc•<;! blur' f<'Jn, or your bP,tBarclay's_ 
blu<' 'uct. fU'' <omP as you arf' whrn you com" to Bar< I.Jy\. And don't bothf'r
Greatest salads in town, 

'topping by th1• bank on thr way Our full dcnnrf'> rang<' from an apprtczcng S3 CJS. tn
bar none. Our 35·foot salad bar i' 'o 

nolh't'g highrr than an Pa,y·to·wv.JIIowcncrPdcblc that we callct a Produt!' BM A 
S?.CJS Every week. we dish out the tasbest 
fJrmf'r's markf't of ovPr 40 diffNPnt frf''>h Sund11y sernce m town Spare Ribs &Roast Beef

grP!'ns and Vf'§f'tables­

C.acken ~ Ia Kmg, Lasagna &Fish. Mashed Potatoes, Dressmg &Gravy Farm fresh salad 
Open for lunch Monday thru 1rcddv 11 :JO A'\\-! PM from our spectacul11r Produce B<u; All at the very Open f01· Dinner Monday thru Thu"dav 5 PM-10 PM, aHordable pnce of JUSt $6 95 So come pass the FndJy & Saturday 4 PM-11 PM plate with us next Sunday You can take alJ you want Wtthout glVlng 'bU it hurts. 
Sunday Buffl't 11 AM-3 PM. Dinnrr .J PM-10 PM 

52885 U.S. 31 North,South Bald, Phone 272-5478 
The Observer Friday, October 9, 1981 page4 
• • • Funeral 
The Best in Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 

255-7737 
for reservations Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00 P.M. Closed Sundays & Holidays 

academy in 1974. security officers turned their
continued from page I 

Egyptian officials have been weapons on the cameramen and an­guarded and anti-riot police an: quoted as saying that Sadat stood up nounced, "no pictures." posted at the gate. Tuesday to salute the men charging 
News film taken from a tower at From the hospital the coffin will the reviewing stand, thinking they 
one side of the reviewig stand wanted to present arms. But Deputy
be flown by helicopter to Nasr showed Sadat's attackers were able Prime Minister Fuad Mohieddin said
Stadium, then placed on a horse­to charge right up to the edge of the 
drawn caisson at II a.m. ( 5 a.m. after Sadat realized what was chest-high barrier in front of him happening he continued standing,
EDT). The funeral procession is to and repeatedly fire their automatic "defying and confronting" the at­
proceed about a half-mile to the rifles at point-black range, without parade grounds, the spokesman said. tackers. anyone apparently returning fire. There are no high buildings or Witnesses gave different versions, 
There were a few frames that 

residential houses in the open area. however. 
showed security guards apparently

At the parade grounds, Sadat is to Military attaches and diplomats 
running away or simply standing

be buried temporarily in the tomb of who attended the parade told The nearby without drawing their . the unknown soldier. Originally, the Associated Press that Sadat's 
weapons. But in a TV film, one 

funeral was to be held itt the Raba'a security forces failed to react. They security guard could be seen firinge!Adaweya mosque in Nasr City's also questioned the government his pistol at three fleeing attackers main square, about II miles from version that the murder team was -without hitting them. 
the parade grounds. But this was limited to four men, three of whom 
changed because the mosque area is masueraded as soldiers and sneaked At least three Western military at­taches who saw the attack at close
heavily populated. onto the truck. Photographers at the scene said range said there was no effective
Sadat's final resting place, a What can four dollars get you??? mausoleum and mosque, is now that as soon as the gunfire started, return fire . • being built on the site ofthe review­ing stand where the president was
•• Maybe a trip to Florida ••• 
watching a military parade when the

• • • • • Focus
• assassins broke ranks in the parade
• Your student union invites you to a • and charged Sadat, throwing
• 
• grenades and firing rifles . 
• homecoming suitcase party continued from page 1 "They'll come into work in the
• Egyptian officials, including the
• 
"They're like American labor was i11 morning so cheerful, that they just
e new leader, Vice Presient Hosni
• Sat. Oct. 10 9 -1 am at the '30s and '40s. They've never cheer me right up," Mrs. Wallingford
e Mubarak, have said the attack on 
seen welfare. They like to work. said. "It's been great for our kids,
e Sadat was mounted by four assailantsCentury Center • led by a Moslem fanatic. Sadat There'spride in what they do." more than anyone else. The 
Wallingford said he was the Jamaicans saw the kids playing kick­

• rounded up more than 1,500 foes
••• tickets available at S·U· ticket office • last month on suspicion of foment-second grower in Maine to employ ball one time, and showed them soc­Jamaicans. Two men from the 1971 cer. It's given the kids the
• ing Moslem-Christian strife.
• and the dining halls. 
crew come back year after year be­opportunity to learn about another
• The newspaper Al-Akhbar cause ofthe bond they have with the culture."
••• YOU COULD SPEND OCTOBER BREAK •• quoted Defense Minister Abdel But the mer presence of the 
• 
W allingfords. 
• Halim Abu Ghazala as saying two of 
Jamaican apple pickers has createdLois Wallingford is a robust, 47­

• Sadat's assailants were civilians 
some uneasiness, she admitted. ''I'llyear-old woman with sparkling blueIN ORLANDO • masquerading as soldiers, and a third be walking through a store with theeyes. TheJamaicans call her "Mum."

• was a retired reserve officer. The 
Jamaicans and I'll see someone I · 

• 
While her husband talks about the
• e 
fourth was identified as a major and 
know, who'll pretend she doesn't

Jamaicans' value as hard workers,
e Moslem fundamentalist whose 
know me," she said. "I haven't lostshe speaks of the cultural impact

• 
• e e e • e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e brother was executed by the 
any friends, but some aren't as closethey have made on her family and

government in connection with a 
as they used to be."

Moslem attack on the Cairo military her community. 
Books Are a Great Gift Idea Explore the SECOND FLOOR of the Irish IronTrivia 1 ne University of Notre DameWake Up the Echoes A Treasure of Fighting Irish Lore By Bill Allerheiligen , A Portrait of Its History and CampusNotre Dame Football Notre Dame Strength By Janet and John Hanrahan By Thomas J. Schlereth By Ken Rappoport and Conditioning Coach ''With a school like ND, records are ''Learn the fascinating history of one of"Echoes back from the 80's" ''A systematic approach to strengthbound to be made and broken ...the real America's most beautiful campuses." training''$11.95 fans keep up with them . ' ' $10.95$4.00 Notr  

1'he Observer Friday, October 9, 1981 -page 5 
• • • Rice 

continuedfrom page 1 
Suprt·me Court's ruling on abortion, Rice brought up the subject of per­sonhood. He contestnl that an un­
born  child.  as  well  as  an  elderly  
person,  has  the  right  to  be  
recognized as a legal entity.  

Rice described a case in which the doctor litt·rally strangled the infant in the womb. The doctor was not trkd for homicide, but on the ques­tion of wht·tht:r or not the abortion was complett:d. In considering the cast· of a newborn intant strangled by a doctor just after birth, the ac­tion would ddlnitdy he a crime, according to Rit.'l'. 
This brings the law into question as in how it decidcs thc point oftruc personhood. 
As tht· dccision of the Supreme: Court rests now. abortion during the t1rst trimcster of pregnancy cannot he subject to any state law. During the sccond trimester until viability a state is able to rcgulate but not prohibit abortion. From viability to birth the state can both regulate and prohibit abortion. By saying that there is a certain time at which an unborn child is capable "ofmeaning­ful life outside the mother's womb", tht· det1nition of viability, the Court takes an ambiguous stand, Rice ex­plaint·d. 
When does lift: bcgin? When does personhood begin? According to Prof. Rice, life bcgins at conccption in the form of a human being. This human being is also a person, with all the rights to be protected by the state. It appears that in the legal deci­sions, the right to privacy over­shadows the right to personhood. Prof. Rice refutes that, following his det1nition of personhood, this. privacy infringes on a right to life for 
the unborn child involved. 
• • • Sadat 

continuedfrom page I 
Mrs. Sadat," Ghorbal said outside the White House after the meeting. "He assured me that the relationship (between the Unitcd States and Egypt) solid as it is ... will continue to grow." 
lie said the relationship "is the 
cornerstone  of all  our  efforts  to  
bring pt·ace  and  stability"  to  the  
Middle East.  

Ghorbal contlrmed Reagan's in­vitation to Mubarak hut offered no immediate reply. 
In addition to Haig and the three ti>rmer presidents, the delegation in­cludt·d Defense Secretary Caspar W. Weinberger, ·former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, U.N. Am­bassador Jeane Kirkpatrick, Army ChidofStaffGen. Edward C. Meyer. 
The group also included Stevie Wonder, the entt•rtainer, and Sam Brown, a 14-year-old from Libt·rty, S.C.. who spent a week in Egypt in 1979 aftcr a letter he wrote to Sadat caught th<: Egyptian leader's atten­tion. 
Today's 1Sammy' clue 
Her<: is today's due to this year's Homecoming Search, "Sammy Seminole Could Be Hiding Anywhere": The S<:minole has bccn hiding since since June, 1976 in weCanSTOp StaTe. 
Correction rcgarding yesterday's cluc: It should have read "Torrez," not" Perez.'' 
When you find the answer to thes<: clues, comc to the Studcnt Union office, second tloor, LaFortune Student Center. The win­ner will receive dinner for two at a local n:staurant. 
'" 

William Caudill ofthe Fellowship ofthe American Institute of Architects in Houston, Texas, spoke on "Energy and the Envelope" 
yesterday afternoon. (photo by Carrie Koplin) 
When You Choose American Hospital Supply Corporation You Have A Choice! 
-----------------~~-------~1
RIVER CITY RECORDS 
Northern Indiana's i.argest Selection of Albums & Tapes. I Why pay more any place else? 
I 
any regul~r r_ecord or tope with ad. 1
$1 00 OFF' Llmtt 1 per person 1 
• • Expir:es Oct.31 ,1981 I 
50970 US 31 North eOpen till 10 every night I 3 miles North of Campus e ND/SMC checks cashed 1 next to AI 's Supermarket up to $20 over 1 purchase amount 
I 

1 277-4242 •Record Crates available 





·--------------------------· 
Kristy()n&:~T~ McNichol 
Sbw4 2:00-4:30-9:30 ~ 


Multiple Divisions: 26 diversified divisions contributing products and 
services to the expanding health care industry. 
Geographical Locations: American Hospital Supply Corporation maintains sales and distribution centers in 91 cities throughout the United States with 59 additional locations around the world. Presently there are 92 manufacturing locations in the U.S. aJJd other countries, 
Lifestyle: Depending on the geographical location and career direction you choose. 
Career Direction: You'll have many ways of contributing to the health care industry in the following areas: 
Accounting/Finance/Operations Sales/DistributionIMarketing 
If you seek a company in which you do indeed have a choice, come to our informal career seminar on: 
Monday, October 12, 1981 7:00pm Alumni Room -Morris Inn 
Refreshments served 
Presentation by Dan O'Hara, Vice President-Class of '74 
We are an equal opportunity employer m/f 
..• 

......••• . American Hospital Supply Corporation 
----~----­

---------------------------------------------------------------------------~---------------------. 
Friday, October 9, 1981 -page 6



Editorials 

"Imagine all the people living life in peace ..." 
A dark and pervasive silence settled early Tuesday morning throughout the newsroom of the South Bend Tribune, and by the time the dreadful news was finalized, the better teammate, but Sadat




shock had been absorbed by succeeded nonetheless. 
everyone. Likely the reaction was the The alley was being navigated.
same at news gathering operations Yet the Arab world was revolted by

across the country, or around the the thought of peace with Israel, and 
world for that matter. It was not a that is..the most sickening thought of
silence of fear or confusion, but a all. Sadat was ostracized by his
silence of anger, frustration and loss. 
ideological and theological allies,

Anwarel-Sadat, president of the land because they refused to accept the
where civilization began, was dead, concept of not driving the Jews into
the victim of an act of ultimate un­the sea. Again, Sadat must be
civility. credited with seeing through this
If journalists realized the implica­nonsense. For this, the Arabs wanted 
tions behind this inane act, it is now him dead. 
their task to bring that home to every person concerned with peaceful coexistence on this planet. I hope They have succeeded. Whether itthey succeed, if only because of the was Egyptians involved in a domes­many people who wondered aloud on tic quarrel, or Libyans sent on a mis­Tuesday why all this attention was sion from the Desert Madman,being accorded to another one of 

matters not. Anwar Sadat is dead. Hethose hokey Arab leaders. Clearly, wanted peace. He wanted the killing Anwar Sadat &tood well above the to stop. Though other Arab nationsrest: may not have agreed, he still hadAnwar Sadat possessed many ad­h WA5 CDU!it~GE /1;!P£ HIM 6TA~fJ our F~DH TR£ fACK,HbW ~MVNAir. 71!£. HAN Wll/j NbNE-'' mTDLf 13RE"cHf phenomenal support from his ownmirable qualities: courage, per­countrymen, 11 years after he took severance, patience, understanding, what all this means to them, and cer­It is true that Sadat initiated the Arab world. That Sadat got Begin to office (a recent referendum gave him etc. But the most virtuous of the·se tainly the turbulence of that region is 1973 Yom Kippur war, the anniver­agree on anything is a testament to 99 percent backing). How canvirtues was the fact that he had com­of high importance. But Americans sary of which was being com­his enormous patience, for to call anyone be opposed to his goals? 

mon sense. He recognized the com­cannot comprehend the supreme memorated when Sadat was Menachem Begin uncommonly stub­plete insanity of the political hatred which Arabs of nearly all na­massacred. But many feel he did so born is to be complimentary. Begin situation in the Middle East, and he tions hold toward the Jews, and vice as a first step·toward peace. He then was and is unbending and uncom­In our lifetime, Anwar Sadat was 
alone set out to do something about versa. It is a hatred based in the was able to approach Israel as a con­promising, irritatingly so in fact. But one of the greatest men we will ever it. That anyone would even attempt Koran, the Bible, and thousands of ciliator, a mediator. It was the first Anwar Sadat was so incredibly ded­see. Hopefully, those who did not to right such a massive, long­years of bitter physical and ideologi­step down a narrow, mine-strewn al­icated to peace that in the quiet back­realize this before will realize it now, standing wrong is highly laudable. cal war. For one man to stand up in ley to peace. He almost made it out. woods of Maryland, he convinced if only for the things he represented, That Anwar Sadat got things on the the face of all that, and scream But no one man can make peace. even Menachem Begin to sign an ini­regardless of what he accomplished. road to success is creditable to his ut­"HOLD IT," takes courage almost It is a team game, and Sadat still tial peace agreement. A more For what ideal can be more important ter brilliance. beyond our understanding. Anwar faced two imposing opponents: moderate Jewish leader -Shimon to mankind than lasting peace on 
Americans do not often recognize Sadat did just that. Menachem Be in, and the rest of the Peres, perhaps-would have made a earth? 
Government fraud is uncovered by people, not media 
ding that thugs might be able to harm impossible for citizens to know what single out people that do their job and
WASHINGTON With thousands of reporters on the prowl 

the protestors "and smash some was going on in the inner sanctum of tell the truth. We need to single out here, you'd think that the American 
noses.'' the federal government. Only be-the crooks and go after them." Maxwell Glen Of course, agents of the White cause citizens close to the president Under current Jaw thqse who com-
people would know what's going on House took no action against the eventually broke down and exposed mit perjury about waste, fraud and and Cody Shearer
in Washington. But that's not always the case. demonstrators. And since Nixon has • their superiors were the excesses of abuse can be prosecuted. But it takes long been pardoned, Hersh's story the Nixon administration uncovered. a real commitment from the president Here and Now We were reminded of this the other will make little historical difference. . To encourage such disclosures by on down to make this system work. day with the help of investigative But it's still important. bureaucrats, Congress passed the No one, in retrospect, expected reporter Seymour Hersh. In The New For one, the tape proves that, 1978 Civil Service Reform Act, with H.R. Haldeman to "blow the voter, to expose government York Times he disclosed a previously months before the Watergate break­proviSIOns protecting whistle-whistle" on Nixon during that morn-wrongdoing. Otherwise the entire unreleased White House tape that in. the president knew about an inter­blowers from the perils of turning in ing in May 10 years ago. He was too nation is sure to pay the price. showed President Richard Nixon nal program of "dirty tricks," one's boss. wrapped up in secret White House Yet, according to Ernie schemes. And many old Washington 
Fitzgerald, who "blew the whistle" bureaucrats would be quick to add Unless we create an amosphere in on the Pentagon about C-5A air that Haldeman paid the price for which government employees aren't
"Unfortunately, it's the 

transport cost overruns, few taking a political appointment. penalized for being honest, no num­bureaucrats are taking advantage of Unfortunately, it's the respon-ber of reporters will be able to tell the whether civil servant, the 1978 act's protective clauses. , sibility ofevery citizen, whether civil American people what's going on in 
"No one goes to review with any-servant, political appointee or erratic Washington. 
responsibility of every citizen, 


political appointee orerratic voter, 

thing heavy,'' Fitzgerald told us. A survey this past spring by the

to expose government wrongdoing. 

Merit System Review Board found that a majority of government

Otherwise the entire nation is sure. 

employees know of corruption, waste and fraud but don't report it for

to pay the price.'' 

fear of retribution. People don't seem 
any less afraid under President once entertained the thought of using something he refuses to ad~it today. Reagan than under previous ad­"thugs" from the International Bro­Moreover, Nixon was saying one ministrations. therhood of Teamsters to beat up thing in public and quite-another in solution, according such
The to anti-war protestors in Washington. private. Four days before the "thug" 
whistle-blowers as Fitzgerald, would In an Oval Office conversaton on remark was immortalized on tape, he 
probably make Richard Nixon's skin the morning of May 5, 1971, Nixon told reporters, "We are going to see 
crawl. acknowledged to chief of staff H.R. to it that anybody who comes to "Tell people who tell embarrass­
Haldeman that Teamsters could "go Washington to demonstrate peace­ing truths aren't the problem," said in and knock (the . anti-war fully is protected... " Fitzgerald. "It's those officials who demonstrators') heads off." The Nixon years were difficult 
lie and cover up. We don't need to An excited Haldeman agreed, ad-ones for the American people. It was 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 



==IheDbset:Ver== 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief..-.... _......................)ohn McGrath Photo Editor ........................................John Macor News Editor ........... -...................... Tim Vercellotti
~he f!bserver is an independent newspaper published by the students ot the Untversity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily Business Manager ......................... Rich Coppola
News Editor.............................................Kelli Flint 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported Sports Editor .....-........................ Michael Ortm~n Controller............................................ .)oe Mulflur as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a Features Editor..........................Anthony Walton Advertising Manager ...........................Mark Ellis majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the v1ews SMC Executive Editor........... Mary Agnes Carey Production Manager ................... Michael Monk of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and SMC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico 
Circulation M:__anager .............Tom MacLennan the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged. 
e Irish Extra an Qbserver sports supple:ment Friday, October 9, 1981 -page 7  



Irish square off with Seminoles 
Faust says offense, defense back on track 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Vmrts Writer 
Bobby Bowden and Gerry Faust both got 
their "must wins" last Saturday, hut this Satur­
day's meeting between their two schools will 
mark the end oftht.· comeback trail for one 
team. 
Florida State bounced hack from an early 
seaMm defeat to upset Ohio State a week ago. 
"That was a game we net.·ded to have." admits 
Seminole lkad Coach Bowden. "A loss at that 
poinr could havt· really crippled us with the 
schedule we've got ahead." 
And Notre Dame crawled back up to the 
.'iOO mark after two straight losses on the 
road. "I felt like the Michigan State game 
turned things around for u~." offers Faust. 
"We've still got a long way to go. but we're 
going in the right direction again." 
But 19th ranked FSU and the unranked Irish are on a collision course that could spell long· term disaster for tht.· loser of this contest. As far as the players arc concerned, the balam:e of the season hangs on the I :30 p.m. con­frontation. 
"This game is pivotal -it could show the path ofour season," believes Seminole wide receiver Dennis McKinnon. "It will show how much togetherness we have as a team and how much we've matured." 
"It's a big, pivotal game for us," echoes Irish tri-captain Tony Belden. "The players feel good that we've won two games, but Florida State is a better quality team than the ones we've beaten. A win over someone like them could be the start ofa great year for us." 
Awin for the Seminoles, however, would add another stronghold to an already solid 


Punters 

Kiel faces All-American Stark in duel 
football program. "Playing Notre Dame is a tremendous benefit for us," Bowden con­firms. "Our program has now reached the level where it's recognized on a national scale. hut a win against Notre Dame would really put us on the map." 
Quarterback Rick Stockstill puts the Seminoles in the endzone. He shares his coach's sentiments about the game. "Notre Dame knows we have a good team after we defeated Ohio State, and they'll he ready for us. I look at this as a chance to move up in the polls and a chance to ht.·at another established powerhouse." 
The 6-1. I H'i-pound senior enjoyed the best day ofhis career against the Buckeyes, throw­ing for 291) yards and two touchdowns. He's a smart player who posscses the ability to audible at the line ofscrimmage and attack a defense's weakness. 
"Stockstill picked Ohio State apart with the 
short passes," Faust acknowledges. "He really 
makes the linebackers work because he 
,

See PREVIEW, page 9 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
AssistantSports Editor 

Last week in Columbus, Ohio, the Florida State Seminoles were-in trouble. Coming off a 34-14 thrashing by Nebraska, they were trail­ing Ohio State, 7· 3. with 2:53 remaining in the second quarter. 

Hlair Kiel u•i/1 be hard-pressed to match­punter Rohn Stark. (Photo by john up u•ith Florida State's Ali·America Mucor) 
Florida  State's  Ron  Hester  and  Alders  punt.  /lester  recm•ered  for  a  
teammates  battle  Ohio  State  punter  touchdown.  (Photo by AP)  
Gary Alders for the ball after blocking  

It was at that precise moment that things 
turned around for them. Linebacker Ron Hes· 
ter blocked a Buckeye punt and returned it for 
a touchdown. Suddenlv the Seminoles were 
ahead, and gathering ~omentum. 
Quietly, Blair Kiel has been establishing himself as a first-rate kicker. He ha~ the abilitv to drive the ball more than 60 yards at any · given time, his accuracy has been attested to many times by virtue ofhis ability to drop a punt out ofbounds deep in an opponent's ter­ritory. Most importantly, however, he has developed kicks that stay in the air long enough for his teammates to prevent run­backs. 
But for all Kid's ability, he will be hard pressed to match up with Florida State's Rohn Stark. 
"Dadgum thank goodness he's around," FSU coach Bobby Bowden says ofStark. "He is a very valuable tool for us. When we've been in trouble we've bet·n able to count on Rohn to get us out." 
Stark is, without much question, the finest punter in college football. lie was named to t1rst·team All-America squads by liP!. the Football Writers of America, Tbe Sporting Neu•s and Kodak prior to this season, and is an Academic All-American as well. 
He is the leader of the team. One oft1ve co­captians. Stark nevertheless is the man whom the Seminoles look to for guidance. 
''I'm not the rah-rah type," he says. "I try to lead by doing. The schedule this year has to he the toughest ever. For me. that means the kicking game will be that much more impor· tant." 
The importane ofStark and his talented foot has not gone unnoticed by Bowden. 
"Against Louisville. we're hacked up to our one-yard line," the coach recalls. "and he booms a punt 61 yards to get us out oftrouble. That had to demoralize Louisville. It may have been the play ofthe game. 
Stark is used to making the big plays. He 
averaged 'i 1.1 yards per kick three weeks ago 
at Nebraska, breaking a school record. His 
45.1 yard average over the course oflast season established another Florida State stan­dard. As a freshman. he booted one 72 yards against Miami. Last year he kicked one 67 yards against Pittsburgh. The list goes on and on. 
Kiel will be facing a fearsome rush from the Seminole defensive linemen and linebackers, a situation he is used to. The Irish punter has yet to have a kick blocked. In fact, he took ad­vantage ofan awesome rush at Arizona last season and loped around the left end for an 80-yard touchdown run. 
Stark will face the rush of Irish defenders the likes of Bob Crable and Mark Zavagnin, who have a few blocked kicks of their own. But that probably does not worry him. 
"I really believe he does better under 
pressure, when the other team has a couple of people bearing down on him," Bowden says. "He just gets the hall offso·quickly. Ifhe had all day, I don't know that he would be success· 
ful." 
In light ofthat. the Irish might do well to lay off the kicker just a little. If he has a weakness, it is that he over-kicks the coverage. Teams have had some success at running kicks back. 
"It caused some problems in the Nebraska 

l game." Bowdt.·n admits. "They broke one ti.>r a j touchdown and came close to getting anoth· cr. Leading up to last week's game, we worked 
See KIEL-ST ARK, page 8 1 


-----------------------~--------------­
The Irish Extra -Florida State Friday, October 9, 1981 -page 8 


Autry makes transition 
By MARK HANNUKSELA 
Sports Writer 
"Everybody asks me about the switch," says Jon Autry in his quiet, unassuming voice. "It really isn't that big ofa change. The only dif­ference is that now, I have to pass rush." 
There's a little more to it than that, no mat­
ter how much Autry tries to convince you 
otherwise. At its most basic, Autry's new 
defensive end position requires him to line up 
two or three yards closer to the ball than he 
would when playing at the inside linebacker 
spot he used to occupy. 
Also, his new assignment does not require immediate pursuit -he is forced to hold his position until the ball crosses the line of scrimmage, despite the fact that the the in­
stincts which come from six-plus years of playing linebacker tell him otherwise. 
Autry now has to freeze an opposing block­er, holding him in place long enough to allow the three Irish linebackers time to react to the play and make the stop. In this sense, he is like an offensive lineman -he does the dirty work in the trenches, so that the other guys can get all the credit. ' 
Clearly, then, there is a distinction between the position Autry has played since his fresh­man year at Fort Wayne's Snyder High School, and the one he now occupies. To hear him describe it though, one would think the dif­ference to be almost negligable. 
"Football is football," he says. "No matter what position you play, it still boils down to blocking, tackling and running. The only change really is in your assignments and 
responsibilities." According to Autry's coach, Bill Meyers, the 
6-2, 230-pound sophomore is having little trouble adjusting to those changes in assign­ments and responsibilities. 
"jon has obviously adjusted real well to the change -he's starting," says Meyers. "He has accepted the change, and I think he really en­joys it. He's doing very, very well." 
Autry would probably experience that en­j()yment regardless ofwhere he plays, whether it be defensive end or specialty team psycho. so long as the position is somewhere on the playing field. 
"I don't really have a preference for one position or the other," says Autry, who is en­rolled in the College ofBusiness Administra­tion. "I just like to play." 
Thus far, the Howard Hall resident has been 
fortunate enough to play in all but one game in 
his Notre Dame career, missing only the 
season-opening win over Purdue in 1980. He 
earned a monogram for his performance, 
which included a three-tackle game against 
Navy in a back-up role, and a five-minute stint 
against the Georgia Bulldogs in the 1981 
Sugar Bowl. 

Like the rest ofthe Irish squad, Autry has ex­peric;nced some disappointment over the past few weeks with the slow start ofGerry Faust's first Notre Dame team. He also has heard the rumors that this is a team that still feels un­beatable, despite its two losses. He offers a simple explanation. 
"A player and a team have to have a certain 
amount ofconfidence," he says. "Without 
that, you might as well not even suit up. That 
confidence comes out at different levels in 
See AUTRY, page 8 

with the change. See story at left. (Photo byjohn Macor) 

Florida State runs in the family for Kissner 
By DAVE IRWIN 
Sports Writer 
Senior offensive guard Larry Kissner has a remedy for the less than spectacular perfor­mance by the Notre Dame offensive unit this fall. 
"Actions speak louder than words," says the 6-4, 255-pounder. "You can't talk about it, you've got to do it." 
And for the Del Ray Beach, Fla., native there will be a lot ofincentive to do tt this week. 
Besides hailing from the Sunshine State, Kis­
sner's older brother Michael played for this 
week's opponent -Florida State. 
"That'sall I ever heard as a kid. It was F-L-0­R-I-D-A S-T-A-T-E," remembers Kissner. 
Both Kissners had several offers to pick from after high school. Michael, however, wanted to stay close to home while Larry decided to head for the winter wonderlands under the Dome. 

"He wanted to stay in Florida. I didn't," the former Coach and Athlete all-American says. "I went to the best school, or at least what I thought was the best school." 
Meanwhile, things didn't go too well for Michael at Florida State. "He had some bad times. They went through three coaches in four years," brother 
Larry says of Michael's career at Florida State. "It was a mixed up program ...Now (Bobby) Bowden has turned that program around." 
Kissner isn't exaggerating. The Seminoles are 3-1 after upending Ohio State last Saturday and have won 23 oftheir last 26 regular season games. 
Even with the prospect ofplaying another nationally ranked dub(Florida State is ranked 20th in the lastestAssociated Poll), this game will have yet another attraction. 
"It will be the first Notre Dame home game my parents have ever seen me play," Kissner says. ".\1y brother is really pro Florida State. It's. a brotherly thing, but he's been giving me plenty ofstuff." 
Things didn't look likt· they wne going too well for Larry Kissner when he arrived at Notre Dame. He was recruited as a tackle but the Irish already had people like Rob Mar­tinovich and Tim Foley (an all-American in 1979 and now a member {Jf the Baltimore Colts)at that position. The coachingstaffthen decided to try Kissner at center where he had to contend with all-Americans Dave Huffman and.John Scully. 
After springdrills of1980, Kissner received the Hering Award as the most improved of­fensive player, and with Scully's graduation last May, it looked like the job was all Kis­sner's. But then Gerry Faust was named head 
coach, and his offensive style needed a dif­
ferent type ofplayer at center'than what Kis­
sner's attributes were suited for. An injury 
further compounded the problem, and Kis­
sner's name began to be heard less and less. 
But things started to fall into place. Kissner practiced at both guard positions and center this fall, waiting for a chance. When Randy El­lis injured his knee at Michigan, Kissner was ready. 
"There are a lot ofgreat players here. I just wanted to put my best foot forward," Kissner says. "I've got a chance. I just got to try to take advantage ofit." 
The Irish didn't take advantage ofoppor­tuntics in the Purdue game, losing I 5-14, as Purdue staged its own "miracle finish." But Kissner was part ofthe offensive unit that racked up season highs of 300 yards rushing and 394 yards total offense in downing Michi­gan State, 20-7, last Saturday. 
"As Coach Faust says, 'When we do break it. 
we're going to break it big,'" Kissner says. 
''We're starting to click. We're getting better 
and better every day. A team can feel that." 
The Irish will have to feel at the top oftheir 
game this week. The Seminoles surrendered 
just 38 yards on the ground in 31 carriers to 
Ohio Stab:, a team notorious for its "three 
yards and a cloud ofdust" style offootball. 
As for Kissner, when Ellis' knee is ready for 
action, he is prepared for whatever happens. 
:'You can't look ahead. The coaches will play 
the best people,'' Kissner says. "I consider 
myselfa team player." 
Florida State should see plenty of"action" fromLanJ' Kissner and his teammates Phil Pozderac, Tom Thayer, Mike Shiner and Mark Fischer along the offensive line. 

, , , Kiel-Stark 

continuedfrom page 7 
on Rohn getting less distance from his kicks, 
but better hang time. That way our guys can 
cover better and prevent the long runbacks." 
Blair Kiel was one ofthe most highly 
respected high school quarterbacks in the 
country. Since the time he was a young boy, 
however, he also worked on his kicking. His 
father would snap the ball, and his mother 
would hold for field goal attempts. The all­
American family, one might say. 
Stark, on the other hand, grew up running. 
He will admit freely that his first love is not football, but track and field. He finished 8th in the NCAA's decathlon competition, and earned all-America honors in that sport as well. Then he passed up on the Metro Con­ference track championships to participate in the NCAA-Fiesta Bowl Drug Prevention Program in Phoenix. The all-American boy, one might say. 
Saturday they will match up against each other. The meeting will not be face to face, as most football matchups are, but it will be no less important. The success or failure ofeach man's team could "hang" in the balance. 

r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Irish Extra -Florida State 
Behind the scenes 
Trainers keep watchful eye 
Friday, October 9, 1981 -page 9 


fit. See story' at left. (Photo hy Tonia Hap) 

FSU Frosh 
Rendina finds place in the sun 
By SCOTT FIELDS practically every major school in rhe country. Sports Editor More than I00 colleges and universities made Florida Flambeau scholarship offers to the high school aii­
Arperican, hut they were all a little too pushy, said Rendina. 

TALAHASSEE, Fla. -Super Toe II? Maybe, if 
Mike Rendina, Florida State's freshman "Michigan used to call four or five times a placekickercontinues to boot the ball the way night, even up to I:30 in the morning," said he has so far for the Seminoles. Rendina. "Other schools had people waiting 
for me in the parking lot after school. I even 

Rendina, who has filled the shoes ofthe woke up one morning and found a Michigan original Super Toe, Bill Capece, (now kicking coach sitting in my living room waiting for for the Tampa Bay Bucs) was sought after by me." 
Rendina almost accepted a scholarship to 
Notre Dame, but changed his mind when he 
arrived at the airport to have a look at the 
school last winter. It seems it was a typically 
frigid day and 20 steps offthe plane. he slipped 
on a sheet ofice and fell flat on his back. "That and coach Bowden were the two 

• • • Preview 
By BRIAN REIMER 
Sports Writer 
The average Notre Dame sports fan finds no 
diffic.:ulty following action on the field, but 
behind-the-set·nes work often goes un­
noticed. Associated wth the university's ath­
ktic teams stands a crew oftrainers that bears 
the heavy responsibility oftending to the daily 
physical nenls ofall varsity athletes. 
football coad1 Gerry Faust calls the trainers 
"thl· backbone ofour organization." From two 
in the afternoon until seven at night, they 
spl·nd their time in a variety ofactivities as­
sodated with their reponsihilitics. 
After classes are over, they head to the train­
ing room to tape up the football players for 
pral·tice. "I tape about 40 ankles a day," claims 
junior Steve Power, "at first the burden was 
overwhelming. hut I'm at the stage now 
where I could do it in my sleep." 
After the taping is finished, the trainers ac­
company the players to practice. Their job at 
that time is not routine. From time to time, ex­
hausted players come to them for water. For­
tunately, the cooler weather ofOctober 
makes that aspect of training less bur­
densome. Freshman Vince Hockett recalls a 
summer day when the players consumed 
enough water to fill six coolers. 
The brunt of the managers' tasks on the practice field, however concerns monitoring. When the players finish their warm-up ex­ercises and break into individual groups, the eight student trainers also split up. "You have to keep a mental list" according to juniorjane Trusela, "ofwhi<:h players have which in­juries. Ifyou know that someone has had trouble with his neck in the past, then you 
watch that player to see signs ofmore neck problems. "The situation at Notre Dame is entirely dif­
ferent than my high school training ex­perience. Players here don't sit out injuries for a long time and show offtheir letter jackets. They want to play. They're not always willing to tell us about minor injuries, so we have to watch them." 
"Bigjohn" Whitmer, the head of the train­ing staff. has to hire the students. "We look for people with a high school background and an interest in working with us. We correspond with those incoming freshmen who express a desire to he a Notre Dame trainer, asking them to interview with us after they're accepted at the university. Even though our staffcan not afford to attend every varsity sports practice session, we still handle all the athletes. We have some good kids on our staff; they make the-prnvram eo." 
The overall goal ofthe training staff is prevention ofinjuries, treatment of those that occur, and rehabilitation. john "Doc" Doherty, in his fifth year, is the head student trainer. He carries a schedule ofthe day's ac­tivities, one that all the trainers must know, for certain drills entail a greater risk ofinjury than others. According to Doherty, the job is tough at first, "hut you get better with experience." In addition to Powers, Trusella, Hockett and Doherty, trainers include junior Rkh Bontrager, sophomores Paul Kollman and Laura Curliss, and freshman Dan Egan. 
Kollman worked with Gerry Faust for four years at Moeller High School. "It's great to have him back. There's a big difference, though, between the two schools. At Moeller I was a manager and trainer. Here, it's impos­sible to handle both tasks." More than thirty hours a week is enough for anybody. 
Despite the hard and time consuming work, the job is satisfying. Doherty has got to love it. He intends to pursue training as a career. 
continuedfrom page 7 
throws underneath the coverage a lot." 
Stockstill, who finished I Oth among NCAA passers in 1980, utilizes his backs in FSU's pas­sing game, evidenced hy fullback Mike Whiting's nine receptions against Ohio State. He's sec:ond in team receptions behind flanker Dennis McKinnon. 
against Nebraska earlier this season. 
Florida State also will showcase freshman placekicker Mike Rendina, the only kicker ever named to Parade's All-America team. Rcndina, an Indiana native, has connected on 52, 46 and 24-yard attempts. 
"I can't wait to play Notre Dame," he ad­mits. "Defeating them is the only thing that could top the Ohio State win. South Bend is right ncar where I originally come from (Gary, Ind.), and ifwe could beat them, it would be unreal." 
And FSU's Eric Ryan doesn't think that's such an impossible-task. "We just got finished playing at Nebraska and Ohio State, so the Notre Dame game won't bother us," offers the 6-4 offensive tackle. "We weren't in awe of Ohio State and we won't be ofNotre Dame." 
main reasons why I came to Florida State," said Rendina. "Turning down a scholarship to Notre Dame was one ofthe hardest things I ever did." 
Notre Dame head coach Gerry faust said Rendina had already signed a letter ofintent for FSU before the Irish started rec:ruiting him. 
"I'm a tirm believer when you sign a letter ofintent, you've made a commitment," said

"florida State builds their whole attack on the passing game," explains Belden, who al­ternates at defensive end with jon Autry. "Wc're stressing a lot ofaggressiveness on ddcnsc for this game -we've got to get in there and put pressure on the 4uarterback." 
Notre Dame's front four produced four 4uarterhack sacks, three pass deflections and two fumble rl·c.:oyerics against Michigan State. lklden said that performance did a lot for thdr nmtldcnn·. "ThoSl' sacks hclpl·d us rt"alize that jotl'tting to the quarterback was not suc:h an impossiblt: thing," he confessl'S. "We're: going 10 han· to shut Llown their run­ning game and make tht·m throw. And we know wc'rl· capable: ofapplying pressure to stop their passing attack." 
Notre llaml·'s young secondary again takes the tic:ld without all-America c.:andidate John Krimm. Sophomort' Chris Brown replaces the Sl·nior cornt•rback, and is joincLl hy another relative ncwcomer,joe Johnson. The fresh­man earned his first start at free safety against Michigan State. 
An injury riddled Irish offense, with top tail­hacks Phil Carter and Greg Bell at less than full strength, will have to contend with a defense that accounted for a goal-line stand ani.! a blocked punt returned for a touchdown against the Buckeyes. Tackle Garry Futch. end Jarvis Coursey (defensive MVP in the '8I Orange Bowl) and cornerback james Harris 

art· the only regulars from last year's unit, but was just one of those games that we weren't
continuedfrom page 8 On point-after attempts, Rendina has hit on 
Faust is still impressed. meant to win. But that doesn't make the loss eight-of-nine, which, combined with his field "I just feel that if they can keep a great pas­people, because of the difference in per­any less painful. 
goals, gives him the team lead in scoring with sing team like Ohio State from making the big sonalities. Everybody has a certain way ofget­"We don't like losing. I don't like losing. I 17 points. 

play while allowing them only 3H yards rus­ting ready for a game. But the stuffabout our want to win, and I take it personally when we Rendina, a South Bend native, is looking for­hing, they've got a darn good unit on the beingoverconfident or cocky is not true at all. don't. I start thinking about what I might have ward to the Seminoles' game against Notrt' field." "As far as the disappointment goes," he done differently that might have made a dif­Dame. It will give him an opportunity to per­Another Seminole unit that concerns Fau~t adds, "we didn't play well against Michigan, so ference. We came back a little against Michi­form in front ofseveral friends and relativesis the kicking team. FSU's punter Rohn Stark is that made that loss especially painful for us. I gan State, but I think this weekend is our true this Saturday.
considered the best college prospect since didn't want to experience that pain any more, test. Florida State is one of the powerhouses, "Things are really starting to come togeth·Ray Guy, now with the Oakland Raiders. and I'm sure the rest of the team didn't either. right up there with Michigan and Purdue. 
er," said Rendina. "It's really starting to gell."

Awarded all-America honors in 1980, the The following week agai~st Purdue, we Now, it's time to see how well we've learned senior averaged ; !.I yards on eight punts played better, but we still lost. I think that that from our losses and mistakes." 
The Irish Extra -Florida State Friday, October 9, 1981 -page 10 




Notre Dame vs. Florida State· 


Sports Wfiter  Sports Writer  Assistant Sports Editor  Sports Writer  Sports Writer  Sports·Editor  Sports Writer  Sports Writer  
·i0-31-2.563  39-32-2 .S49  36-:15-2.507  :13-:18-2.465  33-38-2 .46S  33-38-2.465  33-38-2 .465  28-4:1·2 .394  
CLEMSON over Virlnia by 18  Tigo:rs  Tigers  Tig<"rs  Tigers  Tigers  Tigers  Tigers  Tigers  
Michigan over MICHIGAN STATE by 19  Wolverines  Spartans  Wolverines  Spartans  Wolverines  Wolverines  Spartans  Wolverines  
NORTH CAROLINA over Wake Forest by 18  Deacons  ,  Heels  Deacons  Deacons  Heels  Heels  Heels  Heels  
NAVY over Air Force by 16  MiddiCs  Middies  Middies  Middies  Middies  Middies  Middies  Middies  
PENN STATE over Boston College by 24  Lions  Eagles  lions  lions  Lions  Lions  Lions  Uons  
Pittsburgh over WEST VIRGINIA by 7  Panthers  Panthers  Panthers  Panthers  Mountaineers  Panthers  Panthers  Panthers  
TENNESSEE over Georgia Tech by 4  Jackets  Vols  Vols  Vols  Vols  Vols  Jackets  Vols  
IOWA over Indiana by 11  Hawks  Hawks  Hawks  Hoosiers  Hawks  Hoosiers  Hoosiers  Hawks  
PURDUE over Illinois by 7  lllini  lllini  Boilers  lllini  Boilers  Boilers  Boilers  Boilers  
ALABAMA over So. Mississippi by 23  Tide  Tide  Eagles  Tide  Tide  Eagles  Eagles  Tide  
AUBURN over Louisiana State by 2  LSU  Auburn  LSU  Auburn  Auburn  LSU  LSU  Auburn  
MINNESOTA over Northwestern by 28  Cats  Gophers  Cats  Gophers  Gophers  Gophers  Gophers  Gophers  
Georgia over MiSSISSIPPI by 7  Dawgs  Dawgs  Dawgs  Dawgs  Dawgs  Dawgs  Dawgs  Dawgs  
Ohio State over WISCONSIN by 7  Badgers  Buckeyes  Buckeyes  Badgers  Badgers  Buckeyes  Buckeyes  Buckeyes  
Oklahoma over TEXAS by 2  Horns  Horns  Sooners  Sooners  Horns  SoonerS  Sooners  Sooners  
USC over ARIZONA by 21  Trojans  Trojans  Trojans  Wi,ldcats  Trojans  Cats  \\'ildcats  Trojans  
NEBRASKA over Colorado by 22  Huskers.  Huskers  Huskers  Huskers  Buffs  Huskers  Huskers  Huskers  
NOTRE DAME over Florida State by 7  Irish  Seminoles  Irish  Seminoles  Seminoles  Seminoles  Irish  

Irish 

~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, October 9, 1981 -page 11



Features 
A Fellowship of the Cross 
In a religious community, mem­other Brothers who lessened the rivalries, and-hatred has never your brothers. But one day, when 
bers seldom mention the love that austt:rities of tht: houses of forma­been a Community problem. We you are praying or eating or .Fr, Robert Griffin 
binds them together like the mem­tion by their life-styles of loving arc very good people, more or less hearing a conversation, love 
ht:rs ofa family. I would be embar­kindness. They met us wht:n we gifted with grace. We are not stran­overtakes you by surprist: as the 
rassed if a priest or brother were to were scared kids, and helped us gers to virtue, and we arc not t:m­honest mood of your soul. You 
Letters to a Lonely God 

say: "I love you." They wouldn't become priests. Aftt:r we were or­barrasscd by holiness, committt:d think of the people you live and think I meant it if I said the words dained, they continued to ht:lp us as we are in the Community to work with, and it is as though God to them. Love, when it's real, by their faith, when our own faith, ideals of poverty, chastity, and were singing a song inside you. doesn't need to be talked about. by itself, might have failed. The obedience, as servants of a With a rush of blood to the head, of tht: love we have found that The climate would be sticky with Brothers, with their patience and ministering Lord. The flesh and and a tug at the strings of the ht:art gives worth to our livt:s. 
t:motion, we ft:d, if we kept having humor and common sense, have al­blood of our humanity is not ex­at seeing familiar faces, you realize: Bill Toohey was a Holy Cross to use such supt:r-charged lan­ways been my best teachers in the empt from temptations that cor­"Thest: arc my family members, priest who died just a year ago. He guage. Ordinary, necessary Community of the wholesome rupt morals and manners. We hurt and I love tht:m dt:arly. How could lived gracefully, he preached criticisms would falter; pleasant ways to bt: Christianly human. each other with selfishness, and I not love my brothers with whom gracefully; and when he died. his raillery would fail. Love is not a I have been blessed with many strain the family bond. Bitterness I havt: shared so much of a death was full of grace for the word that serves well in tht: ordi­fathers in Holy Cross; and as a can often be heard in the criticisms -li'fetime?" whole campus. As ont: who nary conversations oflife. priest now in his mid-fifties, I've that we sometimes feel that we Politicians are tasteless enough represented so many of us who 
Ncverthelt:ss, sometimes at met a number of young religious owe each other with a vengeance. to rant about love. Rock stars work at Notrt: Dame, his anniver­
meals with my Community, I who are kind enough to acknowl­When we hurt so much that wt: create dirgt:s on love themes; sary will be rt:mcmbcred in a 
realize how dt:cply I care about edge me as their elder in faith. net:d to cry, we can always find cheap comt:dians usc love as a tclt:vision program at 10:30 on 
thest: mt:n. I look at some priest I Some mystery of faith that we call someone who lt:nds us a shoulder buzz word. Priests and brothers Sunday evening, and at a memorial 
have been frit:nds with for years. I vocation has brought us together to cry on. One of the surprises in keep thf'.'{' ·ork to themsel"es when st:rvicc on Tuesday, October 13, at 
think: "How gray he has become to share a religious tradition in Community lift: is to discover, ear­they discover the thrill ofit in their 8:30 p.m. in Sacrt:d Heart Church. 
now, and how faithful he has been which we are the family of Christ. ly or late, how many ofus are carry­Community experience. It is easier With great pride Holy Cross shart:s 
to Holy Cross. He is always in a Sometimes we behave as badly ing an identical cross along a road for them to speak of God than of with Notre Dame its memories ofa 
place whcrt: I can find him. He is towards one another as the sons we thought we were travelling love, though theologians say that great priest, one ofthe finest in our 
very beautiful in his concern for and brothers in the parables taught alone. the words are interchengeable, world-wide tradition, on these 
the Community." I talk to a by jesus; but, perhaps because of Love, wht:n you enter the Com­since God is love. Perhaps for two occasions that have been 
Brother remarkable for his gentle­the indwelling presence of God's munity, is offered as an ideal, and some ofus, oddly enough, it set:ms asked for by Bill's friends, col­
ness. He reminds me of all those Spirit, we survive our sibling you accept love as a duty you owe less personal to spt:ak of God than lt:agues, and admirers. 
War and Rumors of War 
declarations cannot be repeated today. The thoughts are a chaotic jumblt: of morals and distortions that must be arranged rationally. Pacifism is easy today, at least in Second Thoughts 
our environment. Social con­sciousnt:ss has overtaken patriotism in the "race of the 
I don't likt: war. I don't think 
Poullosidowski 
virtues." Thert: is much limited anybody does. And I feel uncom­
pacifism today. "I will fight for fortable wht:n pt:ople start to talk 
what I believe," we say. That soon about it again. 
changes to "I will fight for some­It's being talked about because 
thing if I believe in it enough."Anwar Sadat is dt:ad. He didn't like 
There are so many things to war, either, and he dedicated his 
believe in and fight for, I can't im­life's energy to preventing it. 
agine dividing them into the It's interesting that an incident 
enough and the nut enough.that occurred so far away could 
The beliefs and the passionshave Americans talking about 
would probably be sparce in the something they hate so much. We 
next war, whenever it is. Tht:y will arc talking even though what hap­
bt: swallowed up by the strategy pcnt:d was strange, even unfat­
and the politics and the science. It homable to some. Try to picture a the shouting and crying. these facts. I speculate that one of is not like it was when we felt we
I don't rt:membcr because I didn't 
group ofcommandot:s armed with We have our assassins, but they· my best friends may not graduate really watch. We've all set:n so were a part ofour wars. I've seen explosives and machine guns rip­are lone gunmen. We say they arc becaust: he is fighting in "The many pt:ople shot at -on televi­that passion in the faces ofthe sol­ping through a parade-watching crazy and that we need more hand­Mideast Conflict of 1982," or diers on V-E Day.
sion. It pacifies us. I once tried to
crowd.• I can't imagine what I gun controls and stifft:r prison st:n­whatever name the historians will Of course not everyone hates
imagine what it was like to be shot,would feel. I still am wary ofan un­tences. I don't know what the give it. war. We have the Frank Burns's
to rt:ally imagine it -a bullet infamiliar face walking down a neigh­Egyptians can say now. 
Now, the political analysts will and the Capt. Kilgore's. Tht:y arc
my leg. I don't think I even cameborhood street. A stranger asking It docs make us think, though. discuss, debate and prt:dict: Will here for us to laugh at them. We say
close.
for <.:hangt: ofa dollar upsets me. What happt:ned was tt:rriblc. Sadat Russia intervene? Will Israd .they arc absurd, bt:cause no one Most of U!> watched without in­kept the Middle East peaceful, but retaliate? Thoughts like that help I have said that I am a pacifist can love death and bloodsht:d. But volvt:mcnt. The story was reported now our thoughts turn to war. us rt:main distant and detached even a conscientious objector. But 
some simply say, "I will travel far like a World Series game. No one In some respects, we have been from it all. War is usually fought by that was said without much from home and tight for the things on the news said, "Oh my God, thinking about war alrt:ady. Many them not us. We see it via sattelite. thought. It was as easy as Lnswcr­that my country stands for. I may Sadat is dead." No one cried. The of our friends art: now registered I can barely remembt:r Vit'. Nam ing the question, "Do I .vant to kill and I may die." They arc not media simply stated, "He has hct:n for the draft; some art: in ROTC. I -when it was us, wht:n the 10rror die?" absurd. They arc Amcri<:ans. And assassinated." It was up to us to do usually think about war in light of was brought into our living .ooms. I know that my adolesct:nt some may bt: you and I. 
•

Cat 1n the cradle 
around the houst:, with just an oc­

have to move a lot of wood and It was cold and obviously the kit­
and uncovered a grocery store­
casional glance up toward theten wouldn't survive without its


Andy Rooney 
tools to the back and sides to get sized box that I'd lt:ft old clothes barn, until my wife came home 
my car in. Early Saturday morning I in. For a minute in the shadow I motht:r. I left the door opt:n and 
fr.om the store. I told her I wanted

took the car out and startt:d went down to the houSt: to call a
saw nothing but an old wool jack­
to show her somt:thing and ex­

moving my tools into place when a t:t, but then something small and neighbor who is not rt:ally a farmer 
plained that I had a big problem

There arc certain things writers full-grown gray cat scampered white moved. It was 4 inches long, but lives as ont:. She's a kindly per­without tdling ht:r what it was.
don't say about tht:msclvt:s, evt:n if past me and out the door. It purt: white and had a cocoonlike son, but she's been around animals 
We tiptoed into the barn and

they're rclativdy honest, bcause startled me, but tht:re are mice in look. It was a kittt:n a few minutes a lot and I think it makes you less crept up on the box. The kittt:nthey fed there's no sense going out the. rafters, so I assumt:d it had old. sentimental about them. She said was gone!
of their way to lose friends. been back there trying to kill one. I instantly forgot that I hated the bt:st thing to do was to put tht: 
The mother cat had gone somt:­

It is for this reason that l'vt: Cats kill things for fun. cats. I felt tt:rriblt:. For an instant I kitten in a plastic bag with a rock 
where else to have the rest of her 

never revealed that I don't lovt: As I started to work, I heard tht: froze as the whole terrible truth tied to it and drop it in the lake letter and then snt:aked back intocats, and I wouldn't be telling you barest suggestion of a meow from dawned on me. There was only down the road. She was only think­
the grocery box in the barn for the 

now exct:pt that last weekend I behind a pile of lumbt:r. I stoppt:d one kitten: I had intt:rrupted tht: ing of the kitten, she said. She white one and carried it to safety.
had an experience with a cat that I and stood absolutely still until I mother in the process of having a didn't want it to suffer. 
I'm still not crazy about cats hutcan't get out of my mind. heard it again. I may not likt: cats litter. No one hates cats so much I guess you have to face things I'm sure mighty grateful to thatIt is necessary to say that I only but I'm not stupid about tht:m, and that they wouldn't feel bad under like that if you live on a farm, but I one, and if I evt:r sec that littlespend time in my woodworking I realized that tht: cat had not been these circumstances. don't live on one and I don't have white kitten around and can get 

'·

shop on Saturdays and Sundays, back there killing mice but having My enthusiasm for woodwork­to. I knt:w that if I did, I'd nver get it clost: to it, I'm going to tell it what aand tht: shop is half barn and hau· kittens. ing was gone and I withdrew from out of my mind as long as I lived. 
good mother it has. 

garage. When I finish working, I I carefully moved some lumber the barn to think about what to do. For the next halfhour I puttered 

----~--­
The Observer Friday, October 9, 1981 -page 12 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3. p.m. the business day prtor to insertion, All classifieds must be prepaid, 

Classifieds either in person or through the nail. 

NOTICES J USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED.. SAT.. SUN. 9-7. CASPERSON, 1303 BUCHANAN AD . NILES. USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought, sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. Tues-Sunday, 12-6. 1027 E. Wayne (One block south of Eddy-Jefferson tntersec­lton) WILL TRADE 2 to 4 USC GA'S FOR 2 to 4 PENN. ST GA'S. CALL AL-3549. OVERSEAS JOBS -Summer/year round. Europe, S.Amer.. Australia, Asta. All fields. $500-$1200 monthly Stghtsee­tng. Free info. Wnte IJC, Box 52-IN-4. Corona Del Mar, CA 92625.  Need nde to Evansvtlle. IN area for break. Will share expenses. Call Btll at 8686. Need nde to Provrdence, R. t. over Oct Break. Wtll share expenses. Call Lawrence at 3122 need nde to COLORADO Sprtngs. WILL SHARE USUAL Call MARK 288-5208. Need rtde to Maryland for October Break­--Call Usa at 4-1-5411. Ride needed to Michtgan State area or East Lanstng. Call Mary at 41-54\t Riders needed anywhere along 1-57 to Memph1s area for break Please call Laura at 6896 a.s.a.p. HELP' HELP' HELP' MUST get G.A ·s and Student ltX for GA TECH game  NEED 3-4 FLA ST GAs FOR FAMILY. WILL PAY TOP$ CALL TIM 277-7590 Desperatly need 1 FSU and 2 USC Ttx. Call Buzz 8265 Wtll pay btg bucks for 2-4 GA Navy ltckets-please help-call Glenn at 3387 DESPERATELY NEED 3 GA TIX TO FLORIDA STATE. WILL PAY $$$1 PLEASE CALL PAULA AT 232-8301. DESPERATE ALUMNI NEEDS GOOD TICKETS TO USC GAME CALL COL­LECT (BEFORE 2PM): JOHN DE ROSA (213) 485-1100 I need GA ttckets for Flonda State. Please call Dave x8923. NEED GA FLORIDA STATE TICKETS  DESPERATE FOR FLA ST TIXS JENNY 41-4507 There wtll be no turkey this Thanksgtvtng for this rooster if I don't come up wtth 2 FSU GAs. Serious moneY and/or trade for tix for any other home game Call Ahab or Jane at 6889 or 277-4274 nights. NEED SEVERAL GA'S FOR GEORGIA TECH!?! MAKE SOME DOMERS HAPPY-CALL 1009 NEED GA FSU OR ANY HOME GAME TICS, WILL PAY & TRADE USC PLEASE CALL 4392 SMC HELPIII DESPERATELY NEED GA'S FOR FLA STATE AND USC. CALL 4687 SMC. NEE'D t GA TECH GA CALL JENNY 8026  NEED A RIDE TO BOSTON, TAKE THE BUS. Call Jim 1528 or MtKe 8854 NAVY GA DESPARATELY NEEDED IMMED. WILL PAY ANYTHING Call Mike 8854 HEY! I've got to have one Flonda St stu­dent ttcket. Will deftnttely talk terms. Call Mtke at 8896. Last chance to see the ALIEN!! T ontght at 7:00. 9:t5, and 11 :30 tn the Eng. Auditonum Admtsston ts $1. Sponsored by JUntor class. I have 5 GREAT ttckets (ROW t4) forthe BEACH BOYS CONCERT MAKE OF­FER Call JIM at 8774 LOST. an adjustable copper nng wtth the words real copper on lhe tnstde PLEASE call Detrdre at 80t3--calllate tf yeu can't  Mons. ma soeur It's your btrthday! Please let me mto Sen1or Bar and we can celebrate. have rots of rafts. love. Meechel Mo. Love those bun-huggers. Can you teach me to look l1ke you? Mtck mouse I owe you so much­you French ltttle clutz. You bnghten my day Tt voglio bene. the btgger clutz Hazel You're a savage but you sure have made the last couple months less lonely Thanks. Froantsay ps You dldn"t th1nk I would do 1t d1d you?  
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans. $20-$200. One percent tn­terest. Due in one month. One day watt. Open M-F. 11 :30-12:30 tn Lafortune Basement  PLEASE call Stephante at 4347 to get top dollar for your ttx PLEASE! I NEED A RIDE TO CONNEC­TICUT OR ANYWHERE NEAR THERE WHERE I MIGHT FIND TRANSPORTA­ PLEASE CALL M.J. 4-t·44tt PENN ST. TIX: WILL BUY PSU TIX OR TRADE FOR USC GA'S. BILL '80 2t2­759-4846.  NEED TIX FOR FSU AND USC STU­DENT OR GA CALL t777 ASK FOR JOHN D AHOY!! NEED 4 NAVY GAS NOW!!  rreach me at a reasonable ttme. LOST: A whtte jade pendant. It fell off its necklace a week or so ago. PLEASE call Detrdre at 8013--calllate tf necessary  To LAURA D. IN PE-PULLII!I! Nevtlle, Cheer Upl You're Acceptable!  Hiler  
GOING TO FLORIDA FOR BREAK? NEED A RIDE TO SOUTH FLORIDA WILL SHARE EXPENSES AND DRIVING PLEASE CALL GEORGE AT 3360. Ride needed to Northern lllinots Univ Fri Oct 17 Please Call 1827  TION TO NEW HAVEN,CONN. PLEASE CALL PETE 3049 Need 2 nders to NYC or v1c1n1ty 1eav1ng Oct. 14 AM. Call Etleen 4602 or Donna 4455. 1 RIDER NEEDED TO ALBANY. NY AREA FOR BREAK. CAN LEAVE  Need USC student !tcket. Please call me before you sell.$$$ Jim 1050 I NEED 2 GA TIX FOR FSU $$$ CALL DAVE 277-5883 HELP! I NEED TWO NAVY GA's CALL STEVE AT 8165 THANKS  WILL PAY $20 EACH. CALL MIKE 3260. HAVE 2FSU WILL DEAL FOR 2 SC -ROBBY 8251 . ................ ······ Need 2 or 3 FSU student ltx.-Willing to bar­ter$$ & 1 USC student tik or$$ only. Call Lenny or Squtggy at 3349 or 336t.  LEAVING FORST LOUIS, FT. WORTH­DALLAS AREA OCT t7. CAN TAKE TWO STUDENTS. 256-545t AFTER 2 PM NEED RIDE TO CONN. FOR OCT BREAK. WILL SPLIT USUAL CALL MAUREEN 41-4953  MISS HOELSCHER: Thanks for a wonderful weekend It feels good to get the old bones movtng agatn. You were definately a T. Fnday night. my place? Love, EMIL T.  
anentton L.l.er's: L.I.CLUB HAPPY HOUR thts fnday(10/9) from 4-6 in Badtn's basement  THURS. EVE. CALL BOB 277-4097 RIDERS needed to Dallas area for Oct break. Call Kevtn 8327. WANTED:. one author willing to write the drama of SIX CHARACTERS. Going east on 80?? Need nde to Dubois,  Italian GRANDMA wants to see NAVY game so do brother and parents need Grandma has plenty of money , need up to 4 GAs call John 3623 2-4 GA U.S.C. tickets needed-please help-call Glenn at 3387 URGENT! I need 2 student FSU tix. Call Mary 41-4276  DESPARATE for 3 GA USC tix. Call MARK 1074 Family vtstting for FSU Need GAs or stu­dents. Desperate. call Jay at 8847. DESPERATE-Need 4FSU GA's. Call DeMar3410 NEED FSU STU TIX. CHRIS-1714  Anoter KA party in HC: THE NINER semi­formal proved better than the Screw once agatn.Watch for USC festivittes .. Jive P.S. Special thanks to Terri T. and Lisa G. for their concerted effort Desjardin: Very funny. Just for that I'm leaving my whip at home One of the god­desses.  THANKS MARK. I THINK YOU'RE WON­DERFUL TOO!!! Mary, Mary, Donna, Oara. Tom, Joe. Welcome to the STONEHILL of the west!!!'! EnJOY your stay. Jotn Tim Neely Sunday ntghts at 7 on WSND AM 64 for the Top 20 Time Tun­nel and relive your rock ·n· roll past..  
Pa. Wtll share expenses. Drop me off and continue east as it's right on 80 Call Chuck at t 033 YO! I need riders to Philade\phta. I'll be leavtng this place on Oct.16. If you're tn­terested. call Fran at 4385. If I'm not tn, leave your name and number Need nde to NJ/NY OR ATLANTA for break. Call Michael233-2969.  Will trade 4 FSU GA for 2 USC GA. Call Tony 289-t916 HELP' AILING GRANDFATHER HAS NEVER SEEN NOTRE DAME PLAY NEED TWO NAVY TIX FOR HIM AND A DATE. CALL 2t03. NEED ONE FSU STUDENT TICKET PLEASE CALL TONY AT 3588  Need tix for Penn St. or fat man wtll stt on me. Call Bnan at t777. I NEED FRIENDS!! I also need one FSU STUDENT ltcKet. Call Terese 8t48 Dad of Mr Rob (8t grad) ts coming for FSU game from Florida. He expects me to have 1 GA for his old man. Please help! John 6775.  Cupcake, appy 181! Hope it's te best ever. Love havtng you here. Stay as tasley as you are!! Love ou, Colleen. JUSt when you thought 11 was safe to be in an SMC dorm on Friday 3-EW IMPORT­A-PARTY THANK YOU ALUMNI HALL ... the first dorm to make a generous  Thts Sunday: 15 Years Ago Today (the second week of October, t966) featuring songs by the Beatles, the Association. the Supremes and many more! CAROLE-I WUV YOU TOOl THANX CUTIE! TEXAS SPAZ 1 LISA HAPPY BIRTHDAY PEST! Enjoy a ptna colada­they're as Hawauan" as pineapple'  
PLEASE CALL JEANNE AT 1-456-1311 IN FORT WAYNE. PLEASE. LOST: Cream spnng Jacket wtlh elasttc waist. collar, and cuffs--in mid sept. Call Bob at 3260 LOST. Black pop-up umbrella in rm. 265 in old chem bldg--in mid Sept, call Bob at 3260. LOST. TWO GOLD RINGS AT THE ROCK. EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF YOU HAVE ANY INFORMA­TION, PLEASE CALL CINDY-3141. LOST: LADIES SEIKO WATCH-BLACK LEATHER BAND -CALL EILEEN 4602 SMC. LOST: Plastic ptcture holder from my wal­let I MUST have tl back! If found PLEASE return to LARRY KLINK (ahas Greg F.) Phone 1592  RIDE NEEDED TO AND FROM PITTS­BURGH OR WHEELING, W VA AREA FOR FALL BREAK WILL SHARE THE USUAL CALL PAUL AT 3501. NEED RIDE EAST of Syr. on 90 for break leave anytime 1150 Btll NEED RIDE TO ST.LOUIS ON OCT 16!1 CALLJOHNAT3175 PLEASE--Need nde to Mioneapolis/St. Paul for Oct Break. Call Helene 41-4964 I Need a ride to Long lsland.Can leave Oct. 14 or after. Jim 3234 NEED RIDE TO ST.LOUIS ON OCT t6!! CALL JOHN AT 3175 PLEASE--Need nde to Mtnneapolis/St. Paul for Oct. Break. Call Helene 41-4964 I Need a nde to Long Island. Can leave  - NEED 2 PAIR OR 4 USC GA TIX $$.CALL LARRY 8253 need 2 or mare GAs for Florida game. call Eileen 4-1-4420 NEED FLORIDA STATE GA'S. WILL PAY ANY PRICE. CALL PAUL 8509. FSU TIX FOR SALE, USC TIX NEEDED, Will make best offer or trade. Call Larry 277-3306 NEED 2 FSU ltx, 2 GA's or 1 & t stud. tix VINCE x1238 PLEASE CALL ME NEED 8 GA FLORIDA STATE TIX. CHIP 7443 USC GA tx needed call mike 3686 I need 4 FSU GAs -please call Mary Powell at 7983  HELP! In dtre need of 4 USC student or GA's and 2 NAVY GA's tix. Call Matt at 1652. 4 GA's needed for Navy or Georgia Tech. Paul x3370. Need tix for Penn St. or fat man wtll sit on me. Call Brian at 1777. I NEED FRIENDS!! I also need one FSU STUDENT ltcket. Call Terese 8148 Dad of Mr Rob (81 grad) is coming for FSU game from Florida. He expects me to have 1 GA lor his old man. Please help! John 6775. HELP' In dtre need of 4 USC student or GA's and 2 NAVY GA's tix. Call Matt at t652. 4 GA's needed for Navy or Georgta Tech. Paul x3370.  contnbution to The Observer-Landon Tur­ner Fund. Other dorms are challenged to follow your lead. Make checks payable and send to: The Observer-Landon Turner Fund P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 German and French FOLKS KLINK your mugs together at Greenfield before Fla. game Hey guys Beauttful, blonde bombshell Lisa Singley is turning 19 on Oct 9th. You know what they say about those Iibras.. Come wish her a happy one! We'll make it a real celebration!!-The midn1ght quad 3t9 PW 2703. RTK Nothtng is better than being lucky at love and still be lucky at cards. Je t'aime toujours. Cec.  Many thanKs to M~tt. Greg. Dan, Rtch, Bob, Chnstina, Mike and all associated with the first Mark Davis Show. Special thanks goes to the best crowd I've ever performed with. MED P.S. Look for the next Mark Davts Show Nov. 6. ATTENTION NO MALES: SO YOU THINK THAT STANFORD'S THE ONLY ONE WHO CAN THROW A PORTA-PARTY?? BEWARE--THE PORTA-BROWNIE IS COMING!! YOU HAVE BEEN FOREWARNED .. HAPPY BIRTHDAY TUCK! I couldn't let your 21st birthday pass wtth­out announctng it. Have a great weekend and don't pound too many Marquentas. Love. Karen MIKE REAGAN Welcome to N.D.!! Get ready for a  
LOST. SMC CLASS RING (ptnkte), int­tials RMS. Reward. Call287-2405. Um keg est perdu-on peut le trouver sous le drapeau trancats !!! Lost: Sum of money. In EG aud. or by matn doors of PW. Call Jerry at 6774 or Jan at2958. LOST: Brown umbrella tn room 366 of Old Chern. Bldg. Call288-9322. FOUND: Hat last Sat .. Oct 3. dunng play at O'Laughltn Theatre at St. Mary's. Call 288-9322 tf yours. Wo kann man ein Fass finden? Unter die Flagge tn der Greenfteld am Samstag­morgen.. FOR RENT Student housing, clean, safe. laundry, kitchen, rated supenor. $100 tncludes all. 291-1405. One bedroom, furntshed apt. near ND. Newly decorated, pnvate entrance, $165/momh. Call255-8505 or 259-4629.  Oct. 14 or after. Jtm 3234 Need nde to BOSTON or PROVIDENCE Oct break call Janet 450t SMC RIDERS NEEDED to and from PHILLY­NYC area. Leavtng Fnday and return for USC callt087 FOR SALE ATTENTION PHOTOGRAPHERS FOR SALE: An Omega B-22 enlarger· wtth copy stand and 36" column This ts JUSt the condenser head and copy stand. No tense tncluded, but head takes any standard Omega enlarger lense. Price: $25. Call John Macor at t715 or 8661 and leave your name and number FOR SALE: 3 Beach Boys Tix, $9.00 each, front stage bleachers. call Katie at 4387  PROMINENT CHICAGO STOCK­BROKER NEEDS tO USC GA'S WILL PAY SUBSTANTIAL PREMIUM CALL 3t2-621-3799 COLLECT, ASK FOR TED. Jail BREAK Dad is breaktng out of Jatl to see the FSU and NAVY game. I need two GA's for both games Please help Call Lynn at 6766. Need 2 USC GAs $$ Mike 1502 BADLY NEED 2 GAs FOR FLORIDA STATE. CALL LEE AT 289-3822. NEED 2 GA FSU TIX,CALL JIM: 289­5311 HELPI Need t stu., 2 Ga for FSU and 4 stu. USC Call Lou 87t 0 I NEED FLORIDA ST. GAs. CALL BRIAN 1073. THE SMITH HILL GANG needs ttckets for Notre Dame·s date with the TroJans. Con­Siderable money wtll be spent to watch the show. Call Mike 0. at 8896 and earn some easy bucks. I NEED TWO FSU GA'S CALL JOHN 277-5329  HELP!! I need PSU ltckets. Will pay bucks and/or trade for a nde out to PSU. Call Fran at4385 NEEDED!! At least 4 USC GA ttckets for my family. Please contact Colleen 4t­4408 Need 2 GA. TECH GA's. Will trade 2 NAVY G.A. s or pay CASH. ALEX--6931 I will pay $15 for 1 FSU studentttcket. Call JC at8446 Need 1 Navy student ltcket .. Paul x3370. Welcome back Frank L.l!! PERSONALS GO PROFESSOR ROOS -STAY AWAY FROM THOSE GIGS -YOU CANOOIT!! . I need a nde to Milwaukee on Fnday. Oct t6 (after my 2mwf class) and back somettme Sunday. I've been invtted to a wedding, and want to go. I am also \ook;ng for a ride to Mtlwaukee or Madtson and back almost any weekend  L1sa and Kim, Welcome to South Bend. It's not Columbus, but hey! Hope to have a great weekend wtth you two up here. I won't tell Bob tf you don't!! Monica Hi to Momca·s b1g SIS. We don't care if you've got to be different. The System MIKES. HERE IT IS AFTER SEVEN LONG YEARS! ROB'S FRIEND WARNING TO ALL FRESHMAN GIRLS: You better not blow off too many Fresh­man guys now, or else you will be dating Htgh School Sophomores when you're Seniors. GISM! Hey GJ. You're a sweet guy. y<>u really are! Between count down & the ·srar. I hope to go far I'd rather a restaurant and a G & T But for now I'm glad, I wouldn't like PC! BIG AL -WELCOME BACK TO N.D. HPPY REUNION WITH KATHY M. STOP BY FISHER AND SEE YOUR BROTHER SOME TIME. VAUGHN Anentton ND/SMC women: Only 7 shop­ weekend that you'll never forget! P S. In­troduce Jim to the rabbtt for me! Jotn the Btll Cohoe Fan Club. Stgn up now in room t05 Sortn. J01n now. and get two embershtps for the price of one. (while supply lasts) Votd where exhibtted by Dulac. Pres. John Lally alias The Stud". Hose Monsters need NOT apply Stgn up after the Sonn Hall Talent Show. WANTED: Fun-lovtng, zany, enebnated audience with a des1re to Wake up the Echoes" and Ratse a li«<e hell Sat. morn­tng at 10:30. Apply at Sonn Hall Porch. Even Rejects Get Personals Happy B­Day Janeen & Destrea Love Your Fellow ReJects Knute Rockne and the Ttme Warps. D. Roemer and the Kegless Ktds, Porky and the Dribbltn· Monks, Woody and the Un­forgettable Heaves, and spectal cameo appearances by John Lennon and Anwar Sadat stnging Htt Me With Your Best Shot"" and much, much more at the Sonn Hall Talent Show Sat. Morntng at t0:30on the Porch. If you thought John E locked to a lightpost in front of Walsh Hall by hts underwear was stimulating and arousmg (we saw you gtggltng behtnd the curtatns) then come to the Sonn Hall Talent Show Sat  
Furnished House .. Nice area... Walk to ND.. Jim 3234  Penn St. ticket wanted please call Donna. at677t Will pay top$ for NO-USC game tickets.  I need 4 GA or STUDENT tickets for the FSU game. CALL DICK at 277-6065  call Detrdre at 80t3. If you can·t reach me at a decent hour, call at an tndecent one··I'm hard to reach.  ptng days left before Econ. Tony turns 24. Gtfts welcome though cash preferred. Gtve the future Dr. Sa buzz at 234-t673.  morntng at 10:30 and see what thts Mad· man has planned for you wenches next  
WANTED RIDE NEEDED TO CONN. FOR OCT  Need 6 tickets, best locatton available. Please call collect (714) 835-6505 ask for Tony Herenda or Judt Carlos. TWO GA FSU TICKETS. MONEY NO OBJECT. CALL BOB 234-0418.  DESPERATELY NEED fSU OR USC TIX. CALL PETE 233-8091 NEED tO GA FLA STATE TIX. CALL LESLIE 277-2244  WE EACH NEED RIDES STEVE TO SYRACUSE.NY AREA MARK TO PURDUE-LAFAYETTE,IN AREA FOR FALL BREAK WILL SHARE EXPENSES !!!CALL83t7 NORTHERN NEW JERSEY IS WHERE I  VIVO, Welcome to the t8 club. t 004 may not be Dusty's but we can sure try! Drink hearty-we love you. Ugly, Lola, Marble, Karen, Spuds, Renee, Booboo. Coma, Flans, Hands, Crashman and Kevin  Atn't nobody related to him!!! Montca (alias P.D.A.)­Was tl really long and stringy? If you don't help him. he'll die at The Ob­server.  
BREAK PLEASE CALL 1500.  need three GAs for USC . call3691  please help  FLA TIX NEEDED DAN t694  STUDENT  PREF  WANT TO BE FOR OCTOBER BREAK. BUT I'M .NOT GOING TO GET THERE  Coach, Kokomo, Ubte and Stah say BLUB BLUB  What of it? I'm gotng to die at The Ob­server.  
Need nde to east. PA & back for Oct break. to Reading or Phila. area will share costs. call Dean. 8643. Two wtld girls need nde to Gainesvtlle,  NEED 2 GA TIX TO USC WILL PAY WELL CALL RAY AT 8371 Need 2 GA's for Florida State Call Stan.  Willing to pay $35 for any student GAs to USC game. Call Steve 8738  UNLESS YOU GIVE ME A RIDE. My tar­get area is Nutley, but I'll take any reasonable near-miss. Call Atleen X3445  COACH WIGHTKIN, COACH MILLER, AND SOMETIMES COACH CAMPBELL; THANKS FOR THE PERSONAL TOUCH. WE SCORED THE BIG ONES  If it means that much to you. you'll stop at nothing to get those leners to the editor. Here, I'll make tt easy for you. Go ahead and type; you'll be doing me a favor  
Fla. (or general vicintty) for October break. Will share $ and gas. Can leave anytime. Call Pam or Susie (and they'll leave a message for the wild girls) at 41­5236.  3006 TOP DOLLAR FOR USC GA CALL SUE (SMC)4889  NEEDED: 4 USC GA's in order to save my--. Call Mtck 1t78 Need USC and Navy GAs urgently. Call Chris 1222.  RIDERS TO BOSTON, te BOSTON CLUB BUS has spaces left, $110 2-way, $60 1way. Returns for USC. Call Jtm t528 or Mtke 8854.  FOR YOU. THE VIC-TORY PARTY IS TONIGHT IN YOUR END ZONE. CAN YOU HANDLE ALL 18 OF US? THANKS FOR 3-0! LOVE,  Hi, Mrs. Gilmore! Your daughter Mtchelle is fine. How are the cows? Mooooo!  
Need many Flonda St. GA's. Please call Mark. 277-0692.  HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL FANS NEED FLORIDA STATE TIX. Call Tom at 3573  WANTED: Two USC GAs. Will trade two NAVY GA's and/or cash. Call Bill at 6839.  BOSTON TAILGATER Sat. Greenfield FREE REFRESH. Look for MASS. flag or stgn  YOUR  TEAM--THE  IMPOSSIBLE DREAM  Copy editors beware. The blitz has begun. You viii be perfect, und you viii like it.  
love.  
Der Zystem  




The Observer-Sports Friday, October 9, 1981 -page 13 

Unser declared Indy 500 winner 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Booby Unser illegally passnl cars during a ydlow caution period in last May's Indianapolis c;oo, hut he was dedarnl winner over Mario Andret­ti on Thursday after a special U.S. Auto Club appeal panel ruled a ont·­lap penalty was improperly assessed a day after the race. 
The penalty against Unser "should have been called during the race. If any other conclusion were reached, the officiating of an event such as thb would be nothing short of chaotic," panel chairman Edwin Rendc:r wrote in a 23-page opinion rdeased at llSAC headquarters. 
llnser beat Andretti across the t1nish line by eight seconds, but the pt·nalty cost Unser one lap and .. dropped him to second place when the official standings were posted the morning after the May 24 race. 
Unser protested the USAC deci­sion, and the three-member panel conducted hearings on the appeal in June and July. 
Unser, elk hunting in northern New Mexico when the panel's ruling was announced, told his car owner, Roger Penske, he was "extremely happy to become the sixth three­time winner of the world's greatest 
raet:. This has been  a goal for  me  
since  I  hegan  competing  at  In­ 
dianapolis in 196.3."  

Andretti, reached at his office in Nazareth, Pa., said the reversal was "stunning" and that he was "just too sick to even think about it." 
Andretti, who won the Indy race in 1969, said, "I'll never be able to swallow this. It's totally unjust, it really is." 
Render, a University of Louisville law professor, and former USAC president Rt·ynold MacDonald signed the majority opinion which made Unser the winner of the SOO for the third time and. at age 47, the oldest Indy champion in history. 
Another panel member, former llSAC presidet Charlie Brockman, dissented, saying if the penalty was imposed during the race, Chief Steward Tom Binford would have bet·n "acting on incomplete and in­\Ondusive information, an act that would seem irresponsible." 
The majority opm10n said, however, that responsible officials knew of the infraction when it was committed and failed to inform Bin-ford. 
"Even though the court believes that Mr. Binford did not personally have enough information to call the penalty at the time it occurred, we feel that the misconduct of the offi­cials which occurred during the 
rtow€RS anO q1~ts roR all OC<ASSIOnS Com€ In anO BROWS€. 
~ 


Wy~~Co.
327 llncolnway 
race make it unjust and uu­reasonabk to impose the penalty af­ter the race was over," Rendt·r wrote in the opinion, which was dated Oct. 5. 
The victory nevertheless will cost Unser some money. The panel ruled that by passing the line of eight cars as he left the pits on the I50th lap, he gained a significant competitive ad­vantage "and should be fined ( $40,000) for his violation." 
The first-place prize of more than 5262,000 and the second-place prize of $168,000 had been held in escrow by the Indianapolis Motor Speedway. 
Unser was hunting with his brother, AI, also a three-time Indy winner, and with Pat Patrick, Andretti's car owner, when Thursday's announcement was made. 
Marcia Unser, Bobby's wife, said he "was astounded and ecstatic. They're crazy up there now. Pat Patrick went out and shot a bull elk. 

lin commemoration ot the 25th anniversary of 
--------~--------,
I 0 'laughlin Auditorium 1 I ~()l?kt\~ ()Ill() J ()IC I lconducts the Saint Mary's Wind Ensemble I I and Collegiate Choir-1 Friday, October 9 at 8 : 00 -Little Theater andl Sunday , October 11 at 2 : 00 -0 'laughlin 1 I All member~ of the. S~C-ND 1 
commun~..:e mvtted ..I
I 

Consider an Alternative: THE HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES The HCAs is a 1-2 year postgraduate experience stressing: 
• ~rvice to others esimple living ~ ecommunallifestyle .Christian exploration 
Placements available in the United States; Santiago, Chile; and Nairobi, Kenya. 
DEADLINE FOR OVERSEAS APPLICANTS: NOVEMBER 12. 
For information, contact Mary Ann Roemer at Volunteer Services, 1.5 LaFortune (7308) 

change the penalty from one lap to a 540,000 tine only because he was the winner of the race. It shows if you're the winner, you're going to be treated differendy if you commit an infraction in the race," Andretti continued. "That sets a terrible, un­acceptable precedent. 
"The fact is there is no way you can deny, or they can deny, or they can try to deny he committed an in­fraction that's clearly punishable by one or more laps. The panel chose to change the penalty. 
"That's ludicrous," Andretti said. "That's the part I couldn't believe. They could have said anything else and I would have accepted it. But not this. I'll never be able to swallow this. It's totally unjust, it really is." 
Andretti added he doesn't know yet what additional steps he might take. Unser previously said he would pursue the matter to civil court, if necessary, if the ruling went against him. 
"I'm just too sick to even think"We'll be doing something to about it," Andretti said. ''I'm sick atcelebrate tonight," Mrs. Unser said. the decision, the way it was carried"The last celebration the night ofthe out. I want to make that clear." race wasn't much. Bobby has been Johnny Rutherford, a three-time very bitter and miserable because of Indy winner who testified for Unserthis. He justly deserves this decision. during the panel's hearings, said,I know Bobby grew five feet taller "I'm surprised, but it's the right deci­when he heard." sion."Andretti said in a telephone inter­view the decison was "stunning, The panel also reJecteo a separate mainly because I never thought they protest by Unser that Andretti il­would manipulate the rule book to legally passed A.). Foyt as the cars suit the situation. came around the fourth turn on the "I mean by that they decided to I 50th lap.  SU.DAY MAlBIS A! SAORID BIAR! OBUROB Masses are for Sunday, October 11 8:18 PM Saturday Rev. David E. Schlaver, C.S.C. 9:00 AM Sunday Rev. Francis Cafarelli, C.S.C 10:10 AM Sunday Rev. Michael McCafferty, C.S.C. 11:18 PM Sunday Rev. David E. Schlaver, C.S.O. '1:18 PM Vtlptrs Rev. Michael McCafferty, c.s.o.  
''FULLY ALIVE' '  NO COUPON NEEDED 'BIG BUS'' to O'HARE  
"Fully Alive: The Story of Father Bill Toohey," a biographical treatment of the University of Notre Dame's director of campus ministry who died October 13, 1980, will be telecast Sunday, October 11, at 10:30 pm by WNDU-TV Channel16.  
Written and produced for the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend by Sister Maureen Rodgers, O.P., the half-hour program includes reflections on the ministry of the Holy Cross  (now to Midway too!) 6 times daily from ND circle  
priest by several friends and coworkers, including Head Basketball Coach Richard Phelps, Bishop William McManus of the Fort Wayne-South Bend Diocese, and Notre Dame's president, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. The program was produced with the cooperation of WNDU-TV, William Siminsky, production manager at the station, and the University's Campus Ministry office. an sun., oct. 11, 10:30 pm, en. 16  ~­call your travel agent or 234-3108 fu.diana Motor Bus  

~.._ 

South Bend's newest & finest mcwsme. 
Dine among the antiques, and enjoy our view of the new downtown! 
,, " 
KP'!iPII"V~Ihc,noo;; Appreciated 
234-9000 
121 South Niles South Bend 
...._ 


HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 

.........----~---~---­
Friday, October 9, 1981 -page 14
Sports}Jrie/§ 

NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
East 
w L T Pet. PF PA Philadelphia 5 0 01.000 106 53 Dallas 
4 1 0 .800 126 78 St. Louis 2 3 0 .400 94 
117 
B3N.Y. Giants 2 3 0 .400 71 
Washington 0 5 0 .000 77 149 
Central Minnesota 3 2 0 600 103 115 Tampa Bay 3 2 0 .600 96 BO 
Detroit 2 3 0 
.400 97 99 Green Bay 2 3 0 .400 96 119 Chicago 1 4 0 .200 B2 109 West Atlanta 
3 2 0 .600 122 7B Los Angeles 3 2 0 .600 123 96 San Francisco 3 2 0 .600 113 106 New Orleans 1 4 0 .200 50 105 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
East 
w L T Pet. PF PA Mtami 4 0 1 .900 125 B3 Buffalo 3 2 0 .600 127 67 
N.Y. Jets 1 3 1 .300 101 145 New England 1 4 0 .200 106 121 Baltimore 1 4 0 .200 B7 145 Central Pittsburgh 3 2 0 .600 12B 104 Cincinnati 3 2 0 .600 112 112 Houston 3 2 0 .600 BO B2 Cleveland 2 3 0 .400 B1 114 
West San Diego 4 1 0 .BOO 162 120 Denver 4 1 0 .BOO 106 54 Kansas City 3 2 0 .600 124 132 Oakland 2 3 0 .400 63 62 Seattle 1 4 0 .200 6B 101 




ROLLIII STilES 
Special Guest:SANTAN A Tuesday-December 1, 1981 * 7:30p.m. Pontiac Silverdome * Pontiac, :Michigan 
$1.00 OFF! 
A.ll Rolling S!Dnes 
and Santa• &lbums and !.&pes now &t botb'round trip bus trliiSport.&tion from River City RecordsRiver City Records to Ponti&c 
Silverdome. Bus deputs &t l:OOp.m., 
returns &pproz. 3:30 &.m. Limited number of puhge 
• 
Refreshments on bus tickets now 011 s&le &t 

• 
Ticket14 The RollingStones/Santan& River City Records concert 50970 U.S. 31 llforth 

• 
safety/convenience/&Void driving & ezpense llld h&SSle! 




For more information call 277-4242 



PINOCCHIO'S PIZZA PARLOR 
-Hours Fast Delivery Service 
Mon-Thurs 11 am-12 pm 


277-4522
Fri-Sat 11 am-1 :30 am 
Sun 4 pm-11 .pm 
-Beer Specials 

Every Nite 8:00-10:00 
$1.75 Pitcher $.50 Mug 

-HAPPY HOUR 
Mon-Fri 4 pm-6 pm 

Fri-Sat 8 pm-12 am 4 ft wide screen TV 
E 
s

PLEASE-one coupon per pizza N emmon• 
This coupon good 1 This coupon good 1 »,o~/ ., for one I for one 1 ~<,~~ i 

-----------~------------~ 1r 
juniper 

LARGE PIZZA I MEDIUM PIZZA I ~.; ~ $1.00 OFF I $.75 OFF I·~ 
w

expires 1 0-30-8 'l expires 1 0-30-81 1 
-----------____________...________.... 
Sunday's Games Cleveland at Pittsburgh. 12 Los Angeles at Atlanta. 12 New England at N.Y Jets. 12 Philadelphia at New Orleans. 12 Cincinnati at Baltimore. 1 Oakland at Kansas City. 1 Seattle at Houston, 1 Tampa Bay at Green Bay. 1 Washington at Chicago. 1 Dallas at San Francisco. 3 Detroit at Denver. 3 Minnesota at San Otego. 3 St. Louis at N.Y. Giants. 3 
Monday•a Game Miam1 at Buffalo, 8 

Yesterday's Results NL EAST: Montreal 3, Philadelphia 1 (Expos lead secies, 2-0) AL EAST: New York 3, Milwaukee 0 (Yankees lead series, 2-0) 
Today's Garnes AL WEST: Kansas City (Gura 11-8) at Oakland (langford 12-10), n AL EAST: Milwaukee at New York. n NL WEST: Houston (Knepper 9-5) at Los Angeles (Hooton 11-6) NL EAST: Montreal at Philadelphia 
October 13 8 PM NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 



IN CONCERT 
"IN THE ROUND" 
Choice seating still available Tickets now on sale at 
ACC Box Office Also available by mail-with check or money order First Source Bank payable to: Robertson's -South Bend & Elkhart Notre Dame-Barry Manilow Show Elkhart Truth 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Suspended Chork in Elkhart 
You must enclose a self-addressed, stamped envelope. 
St. Joseph Bank State number and price of tickets desired. 

$15_/1250 Reserved at A.CC Box OHice Ltmit-4 Ttckets Per Person 
c-4-(janl7ltJtftttfi(llf 
_A,_ 
~-· 
~ 
..~ 
~ 
il 
~
.. OUR SPECIALTY 


EXTRA LARGE 
.... ~ Otrei-Boked £AptbP 

.\'·················.. 
t  Our Specialty using fresh sliced  
• ft t  apples topped with a sugar cinnamon glaze never surpass£'d! GO IRISH!  ~  
~Scalp the Seminoles!  ~  
iC  US 31 (Dixieway) North  ¥  
ilt  zn Roseland(Across from the Holiday Inn)  ~ :  
~  ~  

i( Open at 6:00 AM 7days a week ~ 



_·.. 
by The Observer and The AJJociated Prer.r 
The Irish junior varsity football team hopes to 
remain unbeaten as it travels to Tennessee to face the Tennessee 
Military Institute. Notre Dame possesses a 2-0 slate for the season 
after posting consecutive victories over Illinois and Purdue's junior 
varsity squad. -The Observer 
"Skate With the Irish" on Sunday at the ACC. Follow­ing the Notre Dame hockey team's pre-season scrimmage against Illinois-Chicago Circle (2 p.m. faceoff), fans will be permitted to skate for free with the Irish players. The team will also be available for autographs afterwards. ·All fans will be admitted for free and receive a team picture. The Irish, who open their 1981-82 season next weekend at the ACC against York University of Toronto, will scrimmage Miami of Ohio in Columbus, Ind., tonight. -The Ob­
server 
The IAIAw state tennis championships begin today In­dianapolis. The Notre Dame women's tennis team, the defending Indiana state champion, is favored to successfully defend its title in the tournament which ends tomorrow. Coach Sharon Petro's Irish enter competition today with a 9-1 record for the season. -The Observer 
Coach Sandy VanSlager's Notre Dame volleyball 
team takes a 8-10 record into action this weekend, as the Irish par­ticipate in the St. Francis Tournament. Last night, the Irish defeated Oakland City College at the ACC, 16-14, 6-1 5, 1 5-4 and 15-8 in the best-of-five set match. -The Observer 

Unbeaten in 14 games dating back to last season, the Notre Dame soccer team will be in action twice this weekend on Cartier Field. This afternoon at 4 o'clock, Coach Rich Hunter's Irish play host to Marquette, and on Sunday, they face Wisconsin in a 2 
p.m. start. On the year, Notre Dame owns a fine 9-0-2 record. -The Observer 
Florida State's cross country team will also be making the trip to South Bend this weekend, as they challenge the Notre Dame runners on Saturday morning, beginning at 10:30, on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. The Irish, coached by Joe Piane, are coming offan 11th place finish in last weekend's Notre Dame Invitational. ­
The Observer 

Giana Marrone scored the lone goal as the Notre Dame field hockey team edged Goshen College, 1-0, yesterday on Alumni Field. CoachJan Galen's Irish are now 8-6 and will resume action on Tuesday at Valparaiso. -The Observer 
The fall Season for the Notre Dame baseball team ends this weekend, as the Irish face Bradley University in a three-game series atJake Kline Field. Tomorrow morning, the two teams square offin a single game, beginning at 9:30. On Sunday, Notre Dame's fall campaign draws to a close with a 1 p.m. doubleheader. Coach Larry Gallo's squad hopes to improve on its fine 7-2 record. -The Ob­server 


The Observer._ _ 
Friday, October 9, 1981 -page 15






Weekend 


Molarity Michael Molinelli 
TilE JJifPr!~T HALt!>,A P/.liiJt 7tJ 
11.$ IN FP.OIJT ~~ 17:JA?,f.CH, 




Doonesbury 

Simon Jeb Cashin 
IS GUilL~ /JEVI/01/ ftl? 1/C • inol(' I'IICT/0!/ NEW'S &./ LOCIITIIJIJ ITO nNO WT WHY N.D. STlltJENT5 plLL O'MI/IJtNAI£55 Y I!AI "IIRCH;­1TECTU/1'1'1£ lJSfi5TE·~ /!£(£ ''. 
' 
\ 


ACROSS 
1 -'n' roll 5 "Whatever -wants •.." 9 Shopping center 13 Balle­r;;----..;;--r...--r.;;-, Cliath (Dublin) 14 Mortify "!"::"'-i--+-+--i 16 Arab bigwig 17 Chinese -+~f-+---l plano mustc? -:::-+-11-+-t--t----119 Shade of 
green 20 -doll 21 Chiang 
namesakes 23 Sugar..,.,_-+--1--1 source Slipknots 



The Daily Crossword 
42 A "college"
Thursday's Solution sail person 6 Sash in 46 Appetizing Tokyo 47 Ireland 7 Deficiency 49 Test 8-foolish 50 Sheer 
• question ••. linen 9 Maturity 51 Oilers' city 10 Les Girls, 53 Ovens as friends 55-chance 11 Poet Rainer (noway) Maria-56 Nibble 12 Lock of 58 Henry of hair publishing ©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 15 Former 59 Heroic poem 
All Rights Reserved Chinese 62 Aunt, in province Tijuana 
'Enfo.v the last weekend before break relaxin!( at 
~Kick-off the Florida St. weekend at ~ 
presentin!(: 

~enior Bar this afternoon 4:30-7:00 1 
The talented 

~IIO:m IF~CIDrnmiD~· ~~o ~oiPJ:EJ:P ill&\~~~ 
and 

GAJIUIEW G~'EA.Z'l~GR Also open: Toni~ht 9:30-2:00 
open Sat. mornin!( at lJ:OO am open Sat. after the !(ame open Sat.-nife 9:30-2:00Check us out! 
25 -jongg 52 Lined up 18 China: comb. 
27 Ogden 54 Chinese tea form Nash's 57 Practical 22 Famous "-Lama" 60 Dregs Chinese 
30 Stickum 61 Chinese name 31 Latin specialty 25 Bryn­"I love" 63 In addition College32 Change a 64 Step 26 Tome, in dressing 65 Juarez Tours 37 Knock 'em tidbit 28 QEDword 
dead 66 The-of 29 Oblivion 38 On the ice the dragon 33 Beverage 40 Chinese 67 Not home in Bavaria 
sauce 68 Holy women: 34 "On-To 
41 -occasion Fr. China" (meet the 35 Spanish challenge) DOWN painter 
43 Caustic 1 -and ruin 36 Orbs 45 Gaelic 2Will·-· 38 Stowaway 48 Alliance wisp 39 Salutes, 
letters 3 China dogs Chinese 49 Certify 4 Phi Beta-style 5 Kind of 


Campus 
Friday, October 9 
•various 
times -meeting, 'advisory councils, law, llbrary, art gallery, cce., also october I 0. 

•11 
a.m. -lecture, "the adsorption of solutes on hydrous oxide surfaces," prof marc anderson. u. of wisconsin, I 56 fitzpatrick, sponsored by civil engineering dept. 

•3:30 
p.m.-epistemology lecture, "rational con­sensus", keith Iehrer, galvin aud., sponsored by philosophy dept. 

•7, 
9:15, I I :30 -film, "alien", engineering aucl., sponsored by junior class. 

•8 
p.m. -play, "getting out" o'iaughlin aud., sponscred by nd/smc theatre. 

•8 
p.m. -concert, norman deilo joio. guest com­poser in residence. little theatre smc. sponsored by performing arts series. 

•8 
p.m -soccer. nd vs marquettt", cartier field. 

•8 
p.m. -conet:rt. beach boys, ace. 

•8 
p.m. -one-act play, sugar-moutb sam don't dance no more. washington hall hasc:ment, sponsored by nd/smc lab theatre: production. 


Saturday, October 10 
•9-11 
?.m. -gc:t-together, "tailgatc:r rcc", logan center, old and new volunteers welcome. 

•9 
a.m.-mass, for helen carroll, class of'26, for­mer exec director smc alum. assoc. rq~ina 1.·hapel. 

•9-~0 
a.m. -baseball, nd vs bradky u., jakl· klim· field. 

• 
I 0 a.m. -meeting with composers, norman dcl­lo joio, guest composer. little theatrt· snlC, sponsoced by dept. of music. 

•10 
a.m.-12:30 p.m. -open house, st. edward's hall. 

• 
I I a.o.-I p.m. -alumni hospitality, films, in­formation. refreshments. glee club will sing at noon, north dome ace. 

• 
I:30 p.m. -football, nd vs florida state, home. 

• 
7 p.m. -meeting, photography club, I04 o'shag. 

•7,9,11 
p.m. -film, "the hand wagon", engineer­ing au d .. sponsored by film club of nd. 

•8 
p.m. -play. "getting out", o'iaughlin aud., sponsored by nd/smc theatre. 

•9 
p.m. -homecoming dance, century center, students and alumni. 

•II 
p.m. -one-act play, sugar-mouth sam don't dance no more, wash. hall basement, sponsored hy nd/smc lab theatre production. 


Sunday, October 11 
•I 
:30 p.m. -meeting, urban plunge, memorial library aud. 

• 
2 p.m -soccer, nd vs wisconsin, carrier field. 

•2 
p.m --concert, 25th anniv. commemoratln of o'iaughlin aud., music of norman dclio joio, o'iaughlin aud. 

•7 
p.m. -concert, notre dame orchestra, smc little theatre. 




'relevision Tonight 
7:30 34 Wall Street Week 
8:00 16 Movie "Thou ~halt Not Kill" 22 Dukes of Hazzard 34 Enterprise 
8:30 34 Ben Wattenberg at largl' 9:00 22 Dallas 34 Firing line 
10:00 22 22 Eyew.itness News 28 Newswatch 2H 34 The Dick Cavett Show 16 NewsCenter l6 
10:30 16 Tonight Show 22 CBS !.ate Movit­28 ABC News Nightline 34 Captioned ABC News 
11:00 
16 Tonight Show 28 Saturday Night 


~-------~----~----~~---......j 
Friday, October 9, 1981 -page 16


S~orts 
ND Soccer 

Irish battle for NCAA berth 
loss to the University of Virginia.
By RICK KRIST Western Michigan next Saturday However, the Warriors can not be
Sports Writer and Akron U. the following Thursday taken lightly. As Hunter points out,
(Oct. 22 ), both on the road. 

"Marquette has always played us
The Notre Dame soccer team con­As of last week, Notre Dame was tough, as do most ofour opponents."
tinued its winning ways with vic­ranked eighth in the Great Lakes tories over Michigan State and the region. Sunday's opponent, Wiscon­
Last year, the Warriors beat the Irish, University of Chicago last week by sin, was ranked seventh. Atop the 
4-2. 

scores of 4-1 and S-0, respectively. division were Indiana and Akron, Wisconsin, like Notre Dame, is un­defeated this season with an 8-0-1
The team's record now stands at 10-ranked first and second, respective­0-2 and its next two games -Mar­ly. record. The Badgers' strength lies in their defense, which has allowed
quette tonight at 8 p.m. and Thus far, the Irish have lived up to just one goal this season. Wisconsin
Wisconsin Sunday at 2 p.m. -will Hunter's claim that this year's team be key ones in determining whether would be more effective than past 
recently battled St. Louis University or not the Irish make it to the NCAA squads offensively, due to a more 
to a scoreless tie and has beaten the fourth-ranked team in the Great
playoffs. balanced scoring attack. The top Lakes region. Wisconsin-Milwaukee.
"The games against Marquette four scorers -Sami Kahale, Mario The Badgers' defense will certainly
and Wisconsin are the most Impor­Manta. Rob Snyder and Richard Her­tant games of the season right now, degan -have each scored eight test the Irish scoring attack, which 
has_ produced 57 goals this season,
along with Western Michigan and goals. Kahale leads in assists with 12 for an average of'>. 18 per game.
Akron," points out Coach Rich Hun­this season and has a career total of ter. All four of these teams are in the 27, making him the all-time assist 
Needless to say, the Irish have ... been working hard in preparation
Great Lakes region along with the leader for Notre Dame. for the upcoming games. "We've
Irish, making the games against Tonight's opponent, Marquette, is these teams vital. The Irish will face 5-3 jn I98I and is coming off a 2-0 
been working on variety in our shooting this week," says Hunter. "Basically. though, we won't change our game plan against Wisconsin or Marquette."
'Sportsmed Weekend' 

The key, according to Hunter, in beating Marquette and Wisconsin will be starting strongly. "I believe
features Bill Rodgers 

we have to establish our game ear­ly," he comments, "like we did and-one-half-mile "Fun Run" in addi­against Michigan State." Richard
By BRIAN REIMER 

tion to the ten kilometer race, Herdegen scored three goals in the 
Sports Writer 

scheduled for I p.m.. The weekend first 1 S minutes ofplay against Mich­coincides with the opening of the igan State, en route to the 4-I vic­
Notre Dame students spending 

new Sports Medicine Program. tory.
the first weekend of October break 

Reinke notes that "Bill Rodgers "We'll have to attack agressively
in the South Bend area have the has been traveling arround the right from the start and play ourchance to participate in a major 

country giving clinics. He has to be game if we want to be successful,"sporting event: a ten kilometer road 
the most recognized runner in this Hunter feels. race. The Sports Medicine Program 
country. The timing is great for an 
and the Health Awareness Center of event like this, because it does not ­

St. Joseph's Medical Center are co­coincide with a football weekend." 

In mini-playa.ffs 
sponsering the event, which will Noting that this 1event will become 

k k
feature four-time Boston Marathon annual, he jokes, "I should ask Ex~hos "V"a t

champion Bill Rodgers. Dean Reinke is the Director of 

~~~~e c~~~;an at~l~ticle~~ec~~~ r , .L 4 n s a e 
Sports Medicine at the hospital. He weekend open all the time." E 3 Phils 1 Lonnie Smith, who has at least one 

hopes that the race, in conjunction 

Bill Rodgers is a household name XpOS ' hit in 25 straight games, doubled in-with the "Sportsmed lOk Weekend" to most sports fans. In 28 attempts at MONTREAL ( AP)-Gary Carter's to center field and came home on a 
(running from the 16th to the I8th), 

the 26.2 mile marathon, he has come two-run homer in the third inning single by Pete Rose. 
will motivate people to take an up victorious 18 times. After triggered the Montreal Expos to a 3-Bake McBride, who had snappedactive role in the sports world. "We competing in the 1976 Montreal 1 victory over the Philadelphia an 0-for-20 slump with a first-inning live in a spectator town," he claims, Olympics, Bill caught the public eye Phillies Thursday night and gave single, then doubled into the right­"where people enjoy watching by beating silver medalist Frank them a 2-0 lead in their best-of-five field corner, with Smith stopping at Notre Dame and Chicago teams in Shorter in the New York City Marat-series for the National League East third. At that point, Montreal action. We tend to be passive, hon. His four victories at Boston in-Division title. Manager Jim Fanning brought in whereas people in towns likt• San elude an American-record-breaking The teams left this chilly city after Reardon, who intentionally walked Diego are active." Though the 2:09.27 in I979. While he is not the game for Philadelphia, where the Mike Schmidt to load the bases. 

climate in South Bend may not en­racing, he operates his own running defending World Series champions Reardon, who had allowed four courage athletics, Reinke feels that centers in Boston. will send right-hander Larry Chris-earned runs in his last 35 2/3 in-there is ground for improvement. 

There will be a pre-race clinic tenson against Ray Burris Friday in nings, worked a 3-2 count on Gary"We have one of the most ex­tonight at 7 p.m. at Recital Hall in an effort to prevent elimination. Matthews and then retired the out­tensive clinics in the country. Our Century Center, concerning run-Right-hander Bill Gullickson fielder on a foul pop behind first 
major components number three. 

ning injuries. The list of speakers blanked the Phillies on three hits base to Warren Cromartie to end the Our walk-in clinic treats day-to-day 
will include Dr. Leslie Bodner, or-through the first seven innings and inning.
mJuries, along with providing thopedic surgeon and medical was credited with the victory al-The Expos took a 1-0 lead on an trainers to Notre Dame. Our educa­director of the Sports Medicine though he needed help the last two unearned run off Phillies starter tional facet provides seasonal semi­Program; Gene Jouret, the innings from reliever Jeff Reardon, Dick Ruthven in the second, to the nars and workshops for all people program's athletic trainer and physi-who also saved Wednesday's delight of a crowd of 45,896 who involved in the sports world, cal therapist; and Drs. Frederick Fer-opening triumph. turned out on a night in which the whether they be coaches, trainers or lie and David Bankoff, two Trailing 3-0. the Phillies ralli~d temperature dropped into the upperathletes of any age. Finally, our 

orthopedic surgeons. with two outs in the eighth. 30s. 
physical fitness program conducts 

~------~~~~ 
classes in a variety of conditioning activities. 
"Sports Medicine is a new con­cept. Our new clinic is a response to a growing need. Today, more than ever before, there is a demand for injured athletes to get back on the field quickly. The increase in the popularity of exercise has led to in­juries of all sorts. We also have to confront a philosophical problem. There is a push for an apparently healthy athlete to go back on the field too soon. Sometimes we have to pull them, and it is tough to tell a runner that he has to take three to six weeks offwhen he feels healthy." 
The "Sportsmed IOk Weekend" includes a free health and running fair from 11 a.m. to S p.m. on Satur­day, along with a Bill Rodgers run­ning clinic from noon until 4 p.m. and a banquet at night. All events 

The Notre Dame field hockey team edged visit­
will be held in the Century Center. 

ing Goshen College yesterday, 1-0. For details, see
On Sunday, there will be a one-






l ad

2 0 -e s 
The Phillies have now lost seven straight games at Montreal. 
Yanks 3, Brewers 0 

MILWAUKEE (AP)-Lou Piniella lined a fourth-inning homer and Reggie Jackson added a two-run blast in the ninth, leading New York to a 3-0 victory over the Milwaukee Brewers Thursday as the Yankees took a 2-0 lead in the American League East Division championship series. 
The Yankees, the division's first­half champions during the unique split-season, can sweep the best-of-5 series by winning in New York Friday night. 
Dave Righetti, a hard-throwing, 22-year-old rookie left-bander, earned the victory by allowing four hits and striking out I 0 throuh the 
first six innings. Ron Davis started the seventh and loaded the bases before ace reliever Rich Gossage came in and got the final two outs in the inning. 
Piniella's homer came off loser Mike Caldwell, named the Brewers' starting pitcher slightly more than an hour before game time. Pete Yuckovich, the scheduled starter and the Brewers' ace with a I 4-4 record, came down with a 103­degree fever Thursday and was being treated for flu symptoms. 
Caldwell, who entered the game with a 9-2 career record against the Yankees, gave up seven hits before Jim Slaton came on in the ninth 
following Jackson's homer into the right field bleachers. Dave Winfield had doubled before the homer. 
Righetti and Caldwell were locked in a scoreless battle until Piniella, who hit five homers during the regular season, slammed a 1-0 pitch into the left field bleachers with two out in the-fourth. 
~----~···· 








