
~. 
• Administration -page8
• 

K_y'\ 
VOL~,NO.l 
Concessions made · 
ND suit settled 
By MARY FRAN-CALLAHAN Chicago-based Mundelein College, Professor David C. Lcege and Profes­
Senior Copy Editor 
sor Charles K. Wilber, both ofNotre 
Dame.
In an out-of-court summer settle­•Notre Dame must also establishment of the Frese and Ford sex dis­an appellate procedure for womencrimination lawsuits against the who, in the future, believe they mayUniversity, Notre Dame denied a his­have been discriminated against ontory ofdiscrimination against female faculty promotions.

fat·ulty In tenure and contract deci­• Ms. Ford, after reaching asions. The University, however, did separate settlement with the Univer­make substantial concessions to the sity, dismissed her case. She will beplaintiJfs. 
promoted to the rank ofprofessor InThe 16-page settlement, ap­the Theology Department and alsoproved by U.S. District judge Allen receive compensation from Sept. 1,Sharp on july 31, consists of the 1980.
following provisions: 
•Ms. Frese, who Initiated the •The University has agreed to pay Part oftbe properfreshman orientation for an evening picnic wltb tbe women from class-action suit on grounds that the "a reasonable amount" of the plaln­tbe newest additions to Holy Cross included Lyons. (Photo by]obn Macor)
tlffii' legal fees. 

University violated the Civil Rights •Notre Dame will also be kept un­
Act of 1964, will become a tenured der the watchful eye of the Equal fat·ulty member in the English Opportunity Employment Commis­
Freshmen arrive on campus;
Department and receive back pay sion (EEOC) for the next three years 
from Sept. I, 1980. as it will providt· the agency with its 
•The Frese settlement also re­affirmative action report for that 

begin meetings, college life 
qulres the establishment ofa review time period. 
picnics, mixers, and meetings with , Sunday's activities begin with an
panel for other members of the class By TIM VERCELLOTTI 
Ms. Frese initiated her lawsuit in academic advisers in preparation for Introduction to the Academic
action suit who contend they were News Editor 
1978 when she was denied tenure the beginningofclasses, on Tuesday. Program, to be held at 8:30a.m. at
discriminated against. This Appeals The largest freshmen class in
and that suit eventually became ~ the ACC. Following the program, allCommittee -agreed to by attor­Notre Dame's history arrived today The growth freshman enrollment 
neys for both sides-consists oftwo class-action with 81 plaintlffii in­freshmen will meet with their 
to begin three days oforientation ac­is the result of a recent Board of
volved. Ms. Ford followed shortly academic advisers.
men and one woman. They are: 
tivities. Approximately 1,775 stu­Trustees' decision to admit 500 ad­Profes.'ior Ann Ida Gannon of the thereafter with her separate lawsuit. 
dents wlll participate in a number of ditional women over the next few The highlight of orienu.tion weekend is the Welcome Mass,
:::E~========================================:::::; years. Consequently, the overall en­
rollment may surpass the 9,000 where the members of tlle class of mark for the first time since the es­1985 and their parents will be
FYOSoffice 
tablishment of the University over greeted by Provost Timothy 140 years ago. O'Meara. lbe mass is scheduled for 11 a.m: at the ACC. After tbe mass
A number of freshmen reported
Hofman helps, advises 
and a picnic lunch, the Notre Dameyesterday to take the Freshmen Marching Band, the Glee Club, and 

Freshmen enroll in a program of a thorough program of counselling. Guidance tests, which will aid the
By TIM PETTERS student represenu.tves will .make 
study that includes two semesters of to ensure each freshman progresses Freshmen Year of Studies Office in 
News Staff presentations to the students and 
. writing. one semester of social smoothly into sophomore year. placing students in their first semes­
parents. The day will end with a E N t D fr h studies, two semesters of mathe-"We want to show that we are in­ter courses. Today, examinations for 

0 freshmen dance, scheduled for 9
very re ame es man\ matlcs, two semesters of science or terested in the freshmen as people," course credit are scheduled. automatically enters the Freshman of a foreign language, and two Hofman said, "As a result, our total 
p.m. at the ACC concourse. Year ofStudies, a program of study, semesters of physical education. attrition for the freshman class, year Tests constitute a small portion of 
Ail freshmen wiD register tor tbeguidance, and special projects The students are also offered after year for the past six years, has the orientation schedule. Tonight, fall semester on Monday, at Stepan

designed to help freshmen make the electives from the various programs been less than one percent." · Incoming freshmen and their Center, according to alpbabc:ticaltransition to college. In the University. In addition, the Freshman Year ar­parents will be formally greeted at a schedules. •
"The Freshman Year ofStudies Is, Hofman cited two reasons for the ranges activities for the freshmen. Welcome and Introductory in effect, the college for the fresh-program, the first beinga way "to in-The first event this year will be a Ceremony, slated for 7:30p.m. at ~e 
In addition to tbe campus-wide men," according to Dr. Emil Hof-, troduce the freshmen to a liberal shopping tour ofSouth Bend on Aug. Athletic and Convocation Center. 
activities, orientation stafi!s in each man, the dean of the Freshman Year. arts curriculum," and the second 29. Freshmen will be given the op­•Following the ceremony, parents of the residence halls have planned "All the arrangements for their being "the opJ)ortunity to sample portunity to shop at several of the will remain at the ACC for a separate numerous mixers and picnics to aid academic program and the guidance program before they have to decide stores on the tour. In conjunction orientation program, while fresh­the freshmen in getting acquainted needed by freshmen are provided by on their program ofstudy." with the tour, special discounts have men will meet with their residence with their classmates in more the Freshman Year." The Freshman Year also provides been arranged with some local mer­hall staffs. relaxed atmospheres. chants. 

SaintMary,s freshm-en start . orientation process, pleasures 
By MARY AGNES CAREY 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor 
will participate in orientation activities, according to 
SMC's Student Activities office. 
Arrival and check In to receive room and post office 
box keys is scheduled from 9 a.m.-2 p.m. today in all 
residence halls. Pictures for ID cards will be taken from 
9 a.m.-1 :30 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. Finished 
J.D.'s will be distributed later in the week at the Saint iMary's dining haiMary's Dining Hall. Off-campus stu­ldents may pick up ID's in AAF after Sept. 1 
Several South Bend area banks will be represented in 
LeMans Lobby to open checking accounts for incoming 
freshmen. Campus tours leaving on the hour from 
LeMans lobby are scheduled from 10 a.m. to noon. 
A 23-year-old Notre Dame graduate student was killed early this morning In a one-car accident on Notre Dame Avenue. 
Kathleen M. Undsay, of Yeadon, Pa., was driving south at ap­proximately I :30 a.m. when her car left the road and struck a tree just south of University Drive, St. joseph County poUce said. 
Pollee said Ms. Unday, who was travellng alone, apparently lost con­trol ofher car. Ms. Undsay was pronounced dead at the scene by St. joseph County coroner, Dr. Larry Curry. 

Aluncheon to welcome freshmen and transfer off­campus students and their parents will begin at II:30 
a.m. In the Saint Mary's Clubhouse and continue until I 
m. Lunch is also scheduled at the SMC dininghall from 
11:30 a.m. to 1:15 p.m. and parents may purchase tick­ets at the door. 
Students interested in spending a year of college in Ireland or Rome may meet with students, faculty and administration affiliated with the programs at 1 p.m. 
·(Ireland program) and 2 p.m. (Rome program) at Uttle Theatre In Moreau Hall. 
Mary Ann Rowan, director ofadmissions, and William Hickey, vice-president, will speak from 3 p.m.-3:30p.m. at an academic briefing in O'Laughlin Auditorium for all new students and their parents. Kathleen Rice, dean of student affairs, and Thomas Reid, director of Gunpus Ministry, will speak frm 3:30p.m. until 4 p.m. during a student affairs briefing for the class of 1985 and their parents, also scheduled in O'Laughlln. 
A Mass for students, parents, faculty and administra­tion Is scheduled at 5:1 5 p.m. in LeMans Coun or, In case ofrain, in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Parents may pkk up tickets at residence hall information desks by 3 p.m. for a picnic n the SMC dining hall green (rain -in dininghall)from 6:30 p.m.-7:30p.m. 
AAF Is the site for the president's welcme fur all 5tU­dents and parents, scheduled for 8 p.m., with a recep­tion for parents Immediately following. 1be ftlmH~llo Dolly will be shown in Carroll Hall at 9: 15 p.m. 
An 8 a.m. Mass is scheduled Sunday at tbe Church of Loretto, with breakfast following in the dining hall (parents may purchase tickets at the door). Continental breakfast for presidential scholars will take place in Stapleton Lounge LeMans Hall, from 9 a.m.-10 a.m. An· other Mass is scheduled for 10 a.m. in tbe Church of Loretto. 
A pre-registration briefing for freshmen will begin at 
10 a.m. and continue until 11:30 a.m. in O'Laughlin. 
Sec ORIENTATION, peae 6 


_,;;;;;~? .. ;;;:twm,..w.:.;ut•~,_,,w_.~:,,_;;;:;~··'', 
\ 


~ ~-~----~ ----------~--­
The Observer Saturday, August 22, 1981 -page 2 
The Area's to dorm floors King of Carpet Add color & warmth 
SANDOCK'S CARPET-WAY 
ONE OF THE 
WORLD'S GREATEST! CARPET REMNANT SALE 
SALE HOURS: 

WEEKDAYS 10 'TIL 9 PM SATURDAY 1 0 'TIL 5:30 SUNDAY. 1 'TIL 6 PM 


ALL CARPET 

••• of all 1st quality LEES and CABIN CRAFTS carpeting 
*APAIID£1101\UI Of 1AlUE! 
*AREVELRY OF SAVING! 
Colouallees!. TltanlcCabin Crafts! The ware­house of these giants were glutted with remnants, loaded with roll-ends, pieces accumulated from their greatest season ever, In such profusion as to throttle their operations near-completely. They had to sell and sell quickly -and that's wha~ ucARPB-WAY" stepped ln. With a dramatic, hard cash ~lpe-out oHer, we bought every single piece we could at bora rock-bottom-and now we pan the savings on to youl 
!BUY NOW FOR•••!PERFECT FOR , • • 
FLOORS
BEDROOMS BATHROOMS 
WALLS KITCHENS 
STEPS
BASEMENTS DECKS 
0 ST MA~:tY's) 
31 (HtwAY B£TwEEN N. • AND • 
IRECTIONS: T .-u<E U 5. 5 StoE oF H•wAY AS N.D. D [)()CK'S ON AME NORTH ,.o SAN • 

Sorry No lay-a-way, No hold orclen, No pho-or , mall o.....,.., All aubtect to prior sale, All prlclnt Ia on cash and carry baale, AM dlmenelona • • mlnlmurM. 
* CHOOSE FROM 1700 .PIECES! 
*PLEASE -NO DEALERS 
• EVERY STYLE IMAGINABLE 
Shag, twist, plush, loop, tweed, 
cut/uncut, miltl-levalfigured 
• BRING YOUR ROOM SIZES 
Snap up these values on the spot 
• LEES -CABIN CRAFTS QUALITY 
Our Country's finest, most famous mills 
DELIVERY AVAILABLE t.~·-· FINANCING Moderate Charge 
• AVAILABLE
INSTALLATION AVAILABLE 
IDEAL FOR ••• 
TRAILERS COnAGES CLOSETS 
STATION WAGONS 

PERFECT FOR • • 
DORMITORIES APARTMENTS STUDY ROOMS ANY ROOMS 
OTHER REMNANT GROUPS NOT LISTED 
• EVERY COLOR IMAGINABLE 
Gold  Ivory  c-ol  J-ull  Orlont.l  
Pink  N"SStet  Apricot  SauNrne  Plnoa,....  
A11ua  Saddle  Avocado  Abalntt.~  Gardonl•  
Limo  lltfiUO  Droadon  Ambervlow  flaml....  
JDdo  Ar.atea  lahoma  lluebell  l'oolalcle  
Coin  Certae  Poprlka  layben  latlleGreel\  
Olivo  Copper  Seville  Hyacinth  Cloudy Jade  
GrHn  Nougat  Jon11ull  Heliotrope  froaled cac­ 
"•lv• Carmel  l'urple A.ltet  Honey lronae  Corte•lled lvyGr..n  freaca live Grecian Olive  
lron.:e  Autumn  Magenta  Manderln  MontoeoSan4  
White  lloeol  Saddle  Ocean Green  Mufflnklgo  
A1ure Mauve  Marine TaHy  11•'1"• Hemlock  ''"quola• Charcoal  White Grape..."......,...  
l'ebblo  O,rater  lucerne  OkiGolcl  llack  

AREA'S LARGEST CARPET SPECIALTY STORES 
~NDOCK'Sj 
CARPET-WAY 
50760 U.S. 31 NORTH South Bend, IN..: 1/3mile before Michigan State Line 

NewsBrie,b 
by The Observer and The Ass~iated Press 

The OPEC cartel gave up its efforts to unify world oil prices yesterday and gave American motorists and other consumers a break -the prospect ofsteady or even lower prices In the months to come. At the same time Saudi Arabia announced it is cutting produc­tion by I 0 percent, but analysts said this would have little effect on prices. It was the Saudis' Insistence on a relatively low OPEC base price that led to the collapse ofthe tense, three-day special session of the Organization ofPetroleum Exporting Countries, which was called to try to decide on a single OPEC price. The outcome showed "there's only one country that sets oil prices, Saudi Arabia," American analyst said. The 13-nalion cartel has been selling petroleum under a two-tier pricing system -132 per 55-gallon barrel for Saudi oil, and at least J36 a barrel for other countries' oil. OPEC has not had a unified price since early 1979. In the Geneva talks, Saudi Oil Minister Sheik Ahmed Zaki Yamani said his country would not raise Its price above $34. In heated negotiations, the oil ministers of"nine or 10" of the countries finally agreed to the 134 base, with a narrow range of price di.tferen­tial"l for premium crudes, the Kuwaiti oil minister, Ali ai-Khalifah al­Sabah, told reporters after the meeting broke up. -AP 
With hands clasped above their heads in victory, 13 refugees who left Cuba In last year's "Freedom Flotil_la" were freed from a federal prison yesterday after more than a year behind bars. They represented the first of 381 Cuban refugees ordered released from the Atlanta Federal Penitentiary by U.S. District Judge Marvin Shoob, who said their only crime was entering the country without proper papers. Four others, due to be freed later today, were waiting for sponsors to come get them, said prison spokesman William Noonan. Shoob, meanwhile, agreed to a request by Assistant U.S. At­toney Robert Castellani to delay the release of 226 other Cubans to allow the Justice Department to determine whether they would pose a danger to society. Castellani said the 226 had not been cleared for release by a special Justice Department review panel. The release of the other 155 Cubans approved by federal officials had been delayed since May when Attorney General WiUiam French Smith imposed a freeze on the release of all Cuban refugees. Shoob said he welcomes the Justice Department review, saying, "This court doesn't want anyone relea."ied who Is a danger to the community." -AP 
A man who who relatives and neighbors say was very religious was arrested after his four young children, ex-wife and for­mer mother-in-law were found shot to death yesterday. "What hap­pened to my babies, what happened to my babies?" King E. Bell, 30, chanted as pollee took his fingerprints. He was charged with murder. His children, ranging in age from one to six and two ofthem in diapers, were found in the home where they lived with their father. They were side-by-side in a single bed in the basement, all ofthem face down and shot execution-style through the head. Detective Robert Hoke said at a news conference at pollee headquarters that the children had been shot a close range. -AP 
Earl L. Butz, former U.S. secretary of agriculture who served 2 5 days in prison for federal income tax evasion, apparently wiU retain his dean emeritus status at Purdue University. The status will allow Butz, a former teacher and dean of agriculture at Purdue, continued use of a university office and entitle him to secretarial and other benefits afforded regular faculty members, The Muncie Star reported in a copyright story. "I can't imagine why Dr. Butz wouldn't be allowed office space," said an unidentified spokeswoman from the office of Purdue President Arthur G. Hansen. "The dean emeritus status honors his long-term service to Purdue University. The only way an emeritus position might be revoked Is by an act of academic dishonesty, such as falsifying a thesis paper. "We don't go back and alter a student's record if he doesn't tum out all right," she added. Butz, 72, served under former Presidents Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R. Ford. He resigned as agriculture secretary when a racial joke he had told was made public. He was released from the Metropolitan Corrections Center in Chicago on July 24, five days early for good behavior. He was sentencedjune 19 to five years in prison after plead­ing guilty to charges of failing to report Sl48,114 of his taxable Income in 1978, but U.S. DistrictJudge Jesse Eschbach at Fort Wayne commuted all but 30 days of the sentence to probation. Eschbach ordered Butz to pay a S 10,000 fine. -AP 
They laughed when Charlie, a 700-pound tapir, was chosen as the mate for Lucy, a tapir on loan to Brookfield Zoo from Toronto for breeding purposes. Charlie is 25, and the Endangered Species Scientific Authority in Washington said he probably was too old to be a f.tther. The zoo could be wasting its time trying to have Charlie play house with Lucy, a vigorous, 6-year-old 800-pounder. But" Charlie fooled them. Lucy gave birth to a 16-pound male this week and the little nipper was named, appropriately, Essa "Charlie's age Is the equivalent ofabout 75 for a human," said Joe Davis, superintendent of mammals. "They didn't have a male at the Metro Toronto Zoo and loaned us Lucy. Despite their age difference, they hit it off from the start and after 13 months, Essa was born." Davis said 30 years Is abo!Jt the life span ofa Malayan tapir. Only 129 ofthe animals are In captivity in the world. "About I 0 years ago Charlie had a girlfriend, but nothing happened," said Davis. "Lucy became only his second mate and he made the most ofit. -AP 
Sunny and mild today, wtth a high ofs3 and only a 10 percent chance of rain. Tomorrow will be sunny and warm, with tem­peratures again reaching Into the 80s. 
• 
Saturday, August 22, 1981 -.page 3 
English changes at ND 
A large portion of the transition from high school senior to college freshman Involves an adjustment to one's new surroundings. The student Is suddenly plunged into an unfamiliar environment, and the situa­tion Is somewhat similar to the Immigrant arriving at Ellis Island. Both are in a strange atmosphere, where often times the language Is a mystery. 
Don't get me wrong. English is indeed spoken at Notre Dame, but our language Is a peculiar brand ofthe vernacular. Many of the customs that are a part of the University are the source ofour native tongue, which I like to call Domish. 
Here Is a sampling of the more popular Domlsh terms. It is my hope that this short glossary will save you some time and trouble, because soon you'll be ex­pected to converse fluently In the language. As they say, when in Dome, speak as the Domers speak. 
Blow Off: n. A student who rarely opens a book or takes pen in hand, these students place top priority on endless games of Space Invaders and MASH re-runs; v. To indulge in endless games of Space Invaders and MASH re-runs the night before a crucial test. 
Domer: n. ANotre Dame student. 

Double Domer: n. A Notre Dame student who likes 
the place so much he 
returns after graduation as a 
law or graduate student. 
Emil: n. 1. The Dean ofthe 
Freshman Year ofStudies, as 
well as a noted sage in the . 
field ofchemistry; 2. A week­
ly seven point quiz given by 
said sage to his freshmen 
chemistry students. Offered 
on Friday mornings, these 
quizzes are usually 
preceded by shouts of "Emil!", heard throughout the campus, on Thursday evenings. 
Lake: v. To irnmerse a 
friend/enemy In the murky 
waters of St. joe's Lake. Stu­
dents celebrating birthdays 
during the school year are 

prime targets· for laklngs. Large groups participate in 
this ritual, and the ceremony is always preceded by 
shouts of"Lake! Lake!". 

Rah Rah: n. Any Domer with a wardrobe consisting 
solely ofgreen, blue and gold clothing, and a supply of 
green blood coursing through his/her veins. This 
species of student knows both the .chorus AND the in­
troduction to the fight song, as well as all Notre Dame 
sports trivia, including the make of shoe Harry Oliver 
was wearing when he kicked the 51-yard field goal 
agaianst the Unlverity ofMichigan. 

Screw Your Roommate: n. A social event sponsored 
by the dorms approximately once each semester, 
where roommates arrange dates for each other. The 
dates can range from the person ofone's dreams to that·
of one's nightmares, depending upon how well the 
roommates get along. 


TDD VerceUotti 
News Editor. 

The 'Brare: n. Otherwise known as the Memorial library, students flock to this building for a variety of activities. The first floor features a quiet atmosphere, where a student may study the Insides of his eyelids in 
peac~. (Pillows are optional.) Just two short flights of stairs away is THE sOcial space 011 campus, otherwise known as the College library. For the serious student, there are ten floors of relative peace and quiet In the research tower. 
Throat: n. Domers who usually prepare for a quiz weeks In advance, these students are certain that they are continually on the verge ofacademic probation, on­ly to end up with a 3.8 at semester's end Fierce com­petitors when It comes to grades, throats will go Into 
"'


mourning at the receipt of any mark lower than a "B", convinced that now he/she will never get into law or medschool. 


Observer Notes 
Tbe Observer recently proposed a subscription in­crease to handle rapidly rising production and han­dling costs, and the request was approved by the administrations ofboth Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Beginningwith the fall semester 1981, the subscrip­tion fee paid by each student will increase from 13 to $5 per semester, payable along with the tuition bill before the start ofeach term. 
.._____________________..,. 
~The_Ohs.eryer_ 
Design Edltor.......................)ohn McGrath 
Design Assistants ...........•.. Randy Rentn.::r 
TlmN.::dy 
Typesetter ............................... Bruc.:: Oald.::y NewsEdltor................... Mary Agnes Carty Copy Editor................. Mary Fran CaUahan Sports Copy Editor ......... Michael Ortman 
Typists·······:····························· Rlch Coppola 
Lynne Daley 
Ad Design ................................ Greg Swic:rcz Joe Mulftur Pbotograpber ............................ John Macor Guest Appearances ............... Rusty & Kim -Mikey & Margie HIJ!8lns Dziedzic & the Sun Set Pres Murday 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Mar{s College. Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $30 per year ($15 per semester) by wntmgTheOb­server, P 0. Box a. Notre Dame. In­diana 46556. 
The Observer 15 a member of the Assoc1afed Press. All reproduction ' · nghts are reserved. 
l 


SAVE 
Get your used textbooks at 
pandolci1 boolc1 
937 South Bend Avenue 
5 day delivery 
on most titles 
We also buy and sell used paperbacks 


p 
--~--.......--­
----------------·-----~-~ ---------------~--~-----------~-----~­
The Observer. Saturday, August 22, 1981 -page 4 

location for optimizing the situation. (Photo by]bnMacor) 



Scholarships Available 
GUARANTEED EMPLOYMENT AND 
ADDITIONAL TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES AFTER GRADUATION 
'Fuil tuition, books and lab fees are included, plus a monthly grant of $100.00. After graduation you will have opportunities available in Aviation, Nuclear Power, Personnel, and Business Management. 
QUALIFICATIONS 

1. 
At least 17 when you enroll, but not 25 years of age on 30 June of your college graduation year. 

2. 
Have a 4.5 GPA. 


3. 
Citizen of the United States and be physically qualified. 


For information or application call 1-800-382-9404 ext.6197 
Or cut out and mail to: 575 N. Pennsylvania Office 646 Indianapolis, IN 46204 attn. OPO 
Please contact me or send more information about your 
scholarship program.
-___.o__________ 
NAME: ADDRESS: 
PHONE #: AGE: GPA: MAJOR: GRADUATION YEAR: UNIVERSITY: 



Pillmay induce heart 
attacks 
By DANIEL Q. HANEY 
Associated Press Writer 
BOSTON -Women in their 40s who took birth control pills for several years suffer two or three times the usual number of heart at­tacks up to nine years after they stop using this form of birth control, a study shows. 
But the doctors said that this ef­fect of the pill is not likely to pose a major public health risk. 
"The impact on the country as a whole will be small, because the prevalence oforal contraceptive use for five or more years is modest," Dr. Dennis Slone, · who directed the study, said in an interview. 
Physicians have known for several years that women are more likely to suffer heart attacks while using the pill. But until now, they -believed that the increased risk disappeared after the women gave up this birth control method. 
SATURDAY· 

FOCUS 

The new study shows that the heightened risk lasts for nearly a decade and perhaps longer. 
Currently, about 30 of every 100,000 American women between the ages of 40 and 49 suffer heart at­tacks each year. 
The latest study was conducted at Boston University Medical School, the Harvard School ofPublic Health, and the Department of Research Medicine, University of Pennsylva­nia School of Medicine. It was published in today's issue of the New England)ournal ofMedicine. 
An estimated 25 million women around the world take birth control pills. About 40 percent ofall women in the United States and Western Europe use the pills during their child bearing years. 
The study examined 556 women who were admitted to hospitals with heart attacks. Then their pill use was compared with that of a randomly selectedgroup of2,036 women who were the same age. 
The doctors found that the longer the women took the pill, the greater their risk of heart attack. The threat was greatest in women between the ages of40 and 49. 
The increased risk persisted for as long as nine years after the women stopped taking the pill. The resear­chers said they did not have enough data to figure out whether the threat continues past 1 0 years. 
Among women still using the pill, the heart attack rate was three to four times the usual level. 

Doctors are not sure why the pill , influences the heart attack rate. .\ However, some studies suggest the 
medicine lowers level of high den­' sity lipoprotein cholesterol, an in­! gredient of the blood that helps 
protect against heart attack. 
Concert tix available 
Students who ordered tickets for the Aug. 30 Doobie Brothers con­certs may pick their tickets up at the ACC gate 10 ticket window, next Monday through Saturday, 9 am.-5 
p.m. Students must present I.D.'s to receive the tickets. Some Sl2.50 seats are still available, according to the ticket office. 
NBC's Pauley pregnant 
NEW YORK (AP)-Jane Pauley, a former Indianapolis broadcaster and now co-host ofthe "Today" show, is expecting a baby in February, NBC announced yesterday. 
Network spokesman Bill McAndrew said Ms. Pauley, 30, and her husband, "Doonesbury" Trudeau, are expecting their first child in the last week offebruary. 
McAndrew said Ms. Pauley ,plans to work as long as she can before having the baby and will "absolutely" return after giving birth. 
He said it had not been decided who would replace her Pauley while she is gone. 

The Observer 
Relieves pressure 
Brady undergoes surgery 
WASHINGTON (AP) -White House press secretary James S. Brady underwent fourth major operation today In hopes ofsealing a leak In his braln cavity that has slowed his recovery from the head wound suffered In the assassination attempt on President Reagan. 
In a procedure described by a medical spokesman as major but not particularly delicate, surgeons said · they would attempt to seal the leak, which has allowed the spinal fluid to enter Brady's sinuses. 
The surgery began about 8 a.m. (EDT), said George Washington University Hospital spokesman Rich Ellis. 
Brady was described by friends as In good spirits on the eve of the operation, and he was permitted to leave the hospital for a dinner with friends two nights before the sur­gery. 
Dr. Dennis O'Leary, clinical deal) at the hospital where Brady has been treated since the shooting. said the persistent leakage offluid prt·sents a risk of infection. 
I 

The operation, performed by Dr. Arthur Kobrine, the neurosurgeon credited with saving Brady's life in the dramatic hours after. the March 30 shooting. and Dr. Norman L Barr Jr., a nose and throat specialist on the hospital faculty, was expected to take several hours. 
Brady's physicians have been con­cerned for some time about Incom­plete healing ofthe normally airtight seal around the braln. Less than a month after the shooting. the 
wounded press secretary under­went surgery to repair a membrane leak which triggered a potentially dangerous buildup ofair pressure on his brain. 
A few weeks later, Brady was self, Brady experienced another dis­confined to a'reclinlng position in charge of fluid on Aug. 3 after he bed for 10 days after doctors suffered a major epilepsy-like thought a few drops of spinal fluid seizure that apparently created a had leaked from his nose. Although sharp Increase in pressure inside the they hoped that leak would heal it-skull. 
Indiana sentences youth to death 
VINCENNES, Ind. (AP)-An 18­. year-old youth was sentenced to death yesterday in the stabbing 
deaths  of  an  elderly  Petersburg  
couple.  
Richard  Dillon,  of  Hazelton,  

remained emotionless as the sen­tence was read by Knox Superior Judge Edward Theobald. Both he and his attorney, Jimmy Fulcher of Petersburg. said they would appeal. 
Dillon was convicted in the March 8 slaying of William T. Hilborn, 72, and Mayr Hope Hilborn, 65, in their small farmhouse. 
Dillon, a farm worker, was con­victed on two counts of murder while committing a burglary, one court of burglary and one count of conspiracy to commit a burglary. 
He apparently was in the Hillburn home when they returned home from church. 
Hearings are continuing Involving another unidentified juvenile whom prosecutors want to try as an adult. 
Fulcher pleaded for a lighter sen­tence for his client, noting his age and the fact that he had no past criminal history. 
Theobald said he realized that, but "those circumstances are over­ridden by the fact that Dillon, along with a juvenile accomplice, did commit two murders. There Is no evidence that Dillon was under emotional disturbance at the time of the killings." 
The judge also noted that evidence showed "Dillon was In the kitchen and almost out the back door when it was decided to murder the Hilborns." 
Dillon was convicted in July after eight days of testimony. The key to the prosecution's case Involved a taped confession made by Dlllon when he surrendered to authorities four days after the murders. In the confession, Dillon said he and an ac­complice killed the Hllborns during a burglary. 
But when Dillon testified In his own defense, he said he was under the Influence of drugs when he made that confession. 
Hilborn's body was found in a bedroom. He had been stabbed In the stomache. Mrs. Hilborn's arms were slashed, apparently as she had tried to defend herself, pollee said, and she died of a stab wound to the neck. Her body was found In the living room. 
Hilborn, a retired employee ofthe Chevrolet plant at St. Louis, Mo., sold vegetables and dealt in antiques. Mrs. Hilborn was employed at Bet­ty's Cafe at Petersburg. The couple did not believe In banks, and were
cash. 
known to carry large amounts of 


Construction of St. Mary's library fac{/{ties is proceeding on schedule for completion in the spring of 1982. (Pboto by ]obt, M~or) 
·HERTZ ECONOMY FARES,WEEKENDS FROM $16?9 A DAY. 
234-3712 af Airport 

These Economy Fares are
232-5871 

Touring Rates, subject to change without notice and non-discountable. There are no minimum day and advance reservation 
.__________________________________________________. 
tll:HT/ HINT'oiOHII'oi\NilOHII H llNI l 1\!i" 
20% off all demo speakers* 
*except ads 

Audio Technica AT-110 E 
Cartridge 

$65.00 list • 
$16.95 

with this coupon void 8-26-81 

--------------------------------~-----------
Discwasher 

Reg. $16.50 $9.95 
While 50 last 
Wfth this coupon void 8-26-81 
-------------,----------------------------­
10 TDK SA-C90 I audio 1pcclall1tt, lac. Cassettes I 
I 
$29.95 -I 
I 
While 500 last 1 
I 


I•
with thiS coupon 1 

I 401 NORTH MICHIGAN 
I SOUTH BEND, INDIA~A 46601 void 8-26-81 I 
__________________________________________________________________________._ 

The Observer Saturday, August 22, 1981 -page 6 
• • .Orientation 

continuedfrom page 1 
Monday's activities for freshmen include schedule Transfer stu<tt~Jts will meet in .,little Theatre. NO abroad changes in 121 LeMans from 8:30am. until noon for programs wilralso be discussed from 11:30 a.m. until students whose last name begins with A-K. Students 
12:30 p.m. Campus tours will again begin at 10 a.m., whose last name begins with L-Z may make changes running according to today's schedule. from 2 p.m. until 4 p.m. in the same location. An open A college open house, with all academic and ad­house for big/little sisters will take place from 2 p.m. ministrative departments representatives available to until 4 p.m. in LeMans Court or, if it rains, .in Stapleton 
answer questions from 11 :30 a.m. until 2 p.m. Brunch Lounge. A square dance and bon fire will begin at 9:30 will be from 11:30 am. to 1:30 p.m. and dinner from 
p.m. and continue until 11:30 p.m. in McCandless 4:45p.m. to 6 p.m., both in the dining hall. 
parking lot or in AAF in case ofrain. 
River City Records' 5th Annual BACK TO SCHOOL SALE! 
Now thru Sunday, August 30! 
• 
Thousands of posters for sale • NO-SMC checks always cashed up to $20.00 over purchase amount

• 
Record crates available 

• Open 1 0-1 0, 7 days a week 

• 
Bruce Springsteen ticket drawing 

• OisGwashers $1.00 off 

• 
All blank tapes $1.00 off 

• Pick up newest River City Review 

• 
Good tickets for Ooobie Brothers­eO!die singles $0.75 


Michael Stanley 
and Ozzy Osbourne 
River City Records 
50970 U.S. 31 North Owner: Peter Kernan (NO '75) 
3 miles north of campus next to Al's Supermarket General Manager: Chris Kernan (NO '78) 
277-4242 . 

A year after its devastating conflagration, St. Ed's bas been reopened as its reparation bas finally been completed. (Photo by jobnMacor) 
·---------------------------------------,I 
! ANYTHING GROWS 
I I I  FLORIST -campus delivery  
House Plants Gifts, Corsages  N. IRUNWOOu at  
TOLL ROAD  
HOUSE PLANTS  DIRECTLY  
GIFTS, TELEFLORIST  EAST of CAMPUS l I 4mi. N. of Douglas  
WIRE FLOWERS  
272-8820  

25% DISCOUNT 
RENT TO OWN 
-no down payment -no credit check ..., monthly payment 
can be done over the phone 
we also have TVs . 

Q.uasa~: 
CS7600 AUDIO SYSTEM 
• Built-in, front load record/playback Cassette section with Synchro Touch Tape System, Dolby Noise Reduction System, metal tape capability, Multi-function Vu meters, 3-digit tape counter • DC Servo Belt Drive Automatic Record Ch<~nger with magnetic cartridge, Low Mass S-shaped tone arm • AM/FM-Stereo Radio • 3-way multi tuned port speaker system, 8", 3'12', 2'12'' speak­ers and 3-position high frequency level control • Model CS7600. 
···oolbylabs 
SUN APPliANCES 
291-5112 

FOR HOUSE PLANTS 
PRESENT THIS COUPON NO-SMC 8/81 
----------------------------------------1 
River City Records/Jam Productions Present 
----------~TH~E--------­

Special Guest Star 
MICHAEL STANLEYBAND 
Sunday, Aug. 30, 1981 7:30 PM NOTRE DAME AC.C. (South Bend, Ind.) 


---~~----~-------~~---~ 

The Observer 
Libyans clumsy: experts 
WASIHNGTON (AP) -One of the Libyan pilots shot down by U.S. Navy jel fighters radioed just before the brief air battle that he was preparing to fire on American aircraft, U.S. government sources say. 
The pilot's message appeared to be directed to his home base, the sources said, but they were unaware of any messages from Libya sending orders to the plane. 
According to these sources, who declined to be Identified, the pilot's radio message was detected by U.S. electronic monitoring equipment whose location they refused to dis­cuss. 
There have been suggestions that 
the United States might have baited 
the Ubyans into the air battle which 
occurred Wednesday JJVer the Gulf 
of Sidra about 60 nautical miles 
north of the Ubyan coast. The 
United States claims this is interna­
tional air space, the Libyans claim 
jurisdiction In that area. 
The United States ha..'i described 
the episode as "an unprovoked at­
tack" by two Libyan SU-22 
warplanes against two U.S. navy F-14 · 
Tomcats during an announced U.S. 
6th Fleet missile firing exercises on 
the open sea. ' 
Studying accounts of the battle messages from the Nimitz, a number of air combat specialists say the Libyan pilots were both clumsy In their tactics and foolish In taking on the sophisticated F-14s in their Russian-built Su-22s, which are designed primarily for attack against surf.lce targets rather than for fight­Ing other airplanes. 
The battle reports said the patrol­log F-14s sighted the Ubyan aircraft on radar shortly after the Libyans took off from their base at Gur­dablyh. 
According to the accounts, the 
Libyan flight leader launched his 
Atoll heat-seeking missile from a 
point about 500 feet from an F-14, 
below and to one side ofhis target. 
The missile, which has a range of about 3 to 4 miles, missed. 
One of the Libyan planes pulled up as it was passing in front of the sun, the report said, and an F-14 pilot delayed launching his missile until the SU-22 was clear of that heat source which could have diverted the Sidewinder. Then the American pilot fired reportedly from a dis­tance of between a half to three­quarters ofa mile. 
The second F-14 fired its missile at the other twisting Libyan plane. 
One Libyan plane did not explode and its pilot was ejected, his parachute seen to open as he dropped away. The second Libyan warplane was hit at a range of about half a mile and disintegrated, accord­ing to reports. The fate ofthe second pilot is not known. 
The two pilots who shot down the 
Libyan planes will give a news con­
ference after the carrier's arrival, 
Gilbert Calloway, an embassy 
spokesman, said. 
Top admirals, including Vice Adm. William Roman, commander of the 6th Fleet, will also be present at the conference, he said. 
The Nimitz was participating in naval maneuveurs in the Mediter­ranean when its F-14 jets encoun­tered the Soviet-made SU-22s. 
The United States claims the Libyan planes fired a missile first in an "unprovoked attack" on two American jets in international airspace, and the F-14s returned fire. 
Libya claims eight American planes ambushed its jets in Libyan airspace, and that one of the U.S. planes was shot down. The United States. denies that any of its planes was downed. 
r----------------------------,
rCopp 
, '§:§~NTER 
Guitars & Accessories Harmonicas Pianos & Organs 
One Block South of Memorial Hospital 
Banjos 
Recorders& Penny Whistles Sheet Music 
10% OFF EVERYTHING WITH THIS AD! NO LIMIT 
434 North Main Street-South Bend-233-1838 
~-------------------------~--~ 


Wednesday's aerial engagement between two U.S. F-14jetfigbters and a pair ofLibyanfighters occurred 60 miles offthe Libyan coast, according to the U.S. State Department. The above cbart details the 12-mile terrltorlalltmtt Libya claims along mucb of tts Mediter­ranean castltne. Tbe U.S. recognizes the tradittnal tbree nautical miles it says marks tbe ltmit ofany nation's territorial sovereignty. (AP) 
STUDY ABROAD 
ORIENTATION MEETINGS on Sunday, August 23 at Notre Dame at 2:30p.m. 
Angers (France) 204 O'Shaugnessy 
lnnsbruck (Austria) 122 Hayes-Healy 
Mexico City (Mexico) 120 Hayes-Healy 
Tokyo (Japan) 123 Hayes-Healy 
Taipei (Taiwan) 123 Hayes-Healy 
Rome (Italy) 221 Hayes-Healy 
Maynooth (Ireland) 222Hayes-Healy 
at St. Mary's on Sunday, August 23 from 11:30-12:30 in Moreau's Little Theatre 

ARMY ROTC PROVIDES 
Merit scholarships up to $20,000 leadership development 
Management training Adventure Employment opportunity 
(219)283-6265 
f. 

Graduate from Notre Dame as an Arm Officer 

38leaders. 
Trustees, Fellows head University 
By KATIE McDONNELL 
News Staff 
The Board ofTrustees, which is comprised of38leaders who meet biannually to act upon all University legal issues, presides as the hig­hest governing body at Notre Dame. 
Acording to James E. Murphy, associate vice-president for public relations and development and briefing officer for the Board, all busi­ness that is discussed at these meetings in October and May is initially brought up through one ofthe Board's seven committees. 
Each committee is made up offrom five to seven members, and no Trustee is required to serve on more than one committee. It is through these committees that new issues are discussed several times a year, and then acted upon according to the respective committee's decision. If an item receives a recommendation it is brought before the Board at its next meeting. All items that do not receive a commit­tee approval are immediately dropped. · 
Each committee chairman under the Board of Trustees submits a report at each Board session, relaying all activity within the particular area ofthe University to which he is assigned. These chairmen are also responsible for calling a meeting ofthe respective committees at least twice a year. Althoilgh one ofthese meetings usually occurson the day before the Board meets, varying circumstances otherwise dictate these dates. 
The seven committees mentioned under the Board ofTrustees are the Executive, Student Affairs, Academic and Faculty Affairs, Financial, Investment, Public Relations and Nominating Committees. 
The Executive Committee acts as the surrogate Board of Trustees when the full Board is not in session. Comprising this select group are the officers of the Board, the chairmen ofeach committee, officers of the University and other members appointed at-large by the Chairman ofthe Board ofTrustees. 
The Student Affairs Committee studies the non-academic aspects of student life, by keeping in close touch with student leaders and or­ganizations. 
The development and review of the current academic program is handled by the Academic and Faculty Affairs Committee, in efforts to plan for a successful future. 
The Financial Affairs Committee monitors business proceedings for the University, recommends tuition increases when necessary to the Board, and draws up the annual University budget, which must also r~ceive the Board's approval. 
Investing Notre Dame's endowment and other funds in its jurisdic­tion is the Investment Committee of the Board. As of last May, the increased total reported to the Board placed the University's endow­ment at $1 S 1 ,368,000, one ofthe highest in the country. 
The ,Public Relations Committee is concerned with programs dealing with the public, in addition to its alumni and fund-raising ac­tivities. Like the Investment Committee, Public Relations also works to increase the University's endowment. The Nominating Commit­tee submits names to be considered for election to the Board ofTrus­tees, by studyingapplicants who bestfill the needs ofthe committees. 
These integrated committees were established along with the Board of Trustees in 1967, when the University made a substantial renovation ofits entire governing process. 
For the first eight decades of the University's existence, legal mat­ters were decided upon by a group ofsix Holy Cross priests. In 1920, however, these six decided to establish a group called the Associative Board of Lay Trustees, in an effort to create an advisory council that would administer the University's endowment, though they would 
See TRUSTEES, page 11 


O'Meara does job quietly 
By TOM KOEGEL 
SeniorStaffReporter 
The Provost of the University of Notre Dame is the second highest officer ofthe in­stitution, is in charge of academics and faculty affairs and is the direct superior of the Vice-Presidents of Student Affairs and
Provost Timothy O'Meara 
Advance Studies. Nevertheless, the name of 

Roemer oversees order; upholds rights ofstUdents 
By TOM SHAUGHNESSEY 
News Staff 
"The Dean ofStudents is appointed by the University to be in charge of the entire due process that is involved in the rules and regulations ofthe University...and is responsible for enforcing the rules and regulations in a way that student rights are recognized and respected in a due process manner," according to James Roemer, the dean ofstudents. 
James A. Roemer, a graduate ofNotre Dame with degrees in economics and law, has been the Dean ofStudents sinceJuly Gf 1975. As the Dean ofStudents, Roemer's responsibilities are many and varied. Under the direction ofFr. John L. Van Wolvlear, the vice president for student affairs, Roemer oversees the student discipline and judicial system, the use of University grounds and lakes, the University Security, all excused absences from class, the Traffic Appeals Board, the Lost and Found, the Alumni-Senior Club, the Judicial Review Board, and the duLac Guide to Student Life. R()emer also works closely with the director of 
Psychological Services to implement withdrawals for psychological reasons, and to refer to their professional alcohol treatment program any student whose disciplinary infraction was occasioned by alcohol abuse. 
Regardless ofhis other responsibilities, Roemer is usually brought to the forefront-in his role as disciplinarian. The "High Sherifi'' of the Universil(, as he has been called, Roemer works in conjunction with the hall rectors, resident ass~tants, and judicial boards, han­dling the more serious breaches ofdiscipline. In his own words, the Dean's'job consists of handling disciplinary cases "in a professional way...using the resources ofthe community." 
The Dean ofStudents cites alcohol abuse as the most serious·problem on campus. "Quite a few people occasionally, and a few quite frequently, abuse alcohol. Students commit infractions, such as stealing chairs from restaurants, punching someone else in the nose, and do other things that they wouldn't normally do. Sixty to sixty-five percent ofthe cases I handle have something to do with alcohol use. 
"The University recommends moderation in the consumption ofalcohol. Some people go out just to get blasted. This abuse ca:n cause problems now, and continued abuse could ca,use proi?Jems later." · 
I Roemer realizes that his position. often makes him the villain in the eyes ofthe students, 
I but he accepts the lack ,rpopularity as an ine\litable part of the job. He would prefer,
I 
l 
however, not to be rega•.lcdas a heavy-nanded ''Xecutioner oftht ruks. He appr<, :· hes his work with a different phi;_Jsophy. "I tr: to pass a mirror in front ,,[their .tctions.. to ;.:et the students to examine tht . .twn behavior." · ­
·--~---~----­

Provost Timothy O'Meara is not a household word on the Notre Dame campus. 
"I suspect that I am doing a quiet job of administration," O'Meara said. O'Meara's job may be quiet, but the areas that he handles are not. Decisions that are in some way af­fected by the Provost's office include faculty tenure and promotions, advanced studies, the University-wide review of the PACE 
committee, and decisions from Fr. John Van 
Wolvlear's Office ofStuder.t Affairs. 
The amount of review exercised by 
O'Meara in regard to any department's deci­
sions varies. While he is formally placed 
above the deans of the colleges and the two 
vice-presidents, he does not formally review 
all the decisions ofthese areas. 
"Generally speaking, if there is an issue 
involving Student Affairs, I expect Fr. Van 
Wolvlear to handle it," O'Meara said. "The 
Deans and Vice-Presidents are running their 
shows, and I expect them to analyze all their 
options. If Fr. Hesburgh or I see some solu­
tion that they may have missed, we may 
meet with them to point it out, but for the 
most part they are responsible for their own 
areas. 

"I would love to have a totally open door, 
but I can't solve all the problemS," O'Meara 
said. He points out his involvements in areas 
where problems have arisen and he could 
help, such as the recent changes in the 
structure of the liturgical music organiza­
tion on campus. 

O'Meara's duties as second-in-command 
to Father Hesburgh do not involve the larger 
portion of his time as Provost. "I certainly 
don't open his mail when he is out oftown," 
he laughed. "My duties as second-in­
command are for the most part only in case 
oftremendous emergency." 
Hesburgh recently appointed O'Meara to write a report on Priorities and Commit­ments for Excellence (PACE), an examina­' tion of the University's progress during the 1970's and its direction during the 1980's. A faculty advisory committee and the standing Provost's Advisory Committee, together 
with seventeen study groups will advise·Il O'Meara on the project. ! · "The two committees will, with the in­
formation gatlwrcd by the study groups,
I 

-report tn me their feelings on where the llni­~~·' ;, }f'-c.\RA,page 10 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii:iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiii--:;;;;~· ---,.n.--=--·--------··'~·.~.,:_,~. •~.(<",•..........-o~ ...­
::!.i:k'o.J::I~~',~"!!':'~;..z-~-:.:Tl:~;i;_:,.:;/;..,.;;:;~·. 

Fr. Theodore Hesburgb 
Fr. Hesburgh 
•

gtves 120 percent 
By MARY FRAN CALLAHAN 
Senior Copy Editor 
Most people who know Notre Dame know the name Theodore Hesburgh. The specific duties, however, which accompany the post ofUniversity President are not com­mon knowledge. 
Some think that Fr. Hesburgh is the man with The Last Word on campus affairs. He, however, must also answer to higher author­ity. The University's Board of Trustees, chaired by Edmund Stephan, literally con­trols Fr. Hesburgh. 
"Hardly a day goes by when I don't talk to Ed (Stephan)," the president said. He ex­plained the Board as a "self-perpetuating body" which "preserves the Catholicity of the place." 
The trustees, however, are not all Cath­olic, but they are all distinguished and respected in a variety offields. Fr. Hesburgh must obtain permission from the trustees for large Dniversity expenditures, such as build­ings, or consult them on controversial policy matters. 
Fr. Hesburgh's "main dealings" though are with the University's five vice presidents. He also has the final word on tenure and Univer­sity appointments. The vice presidents, who oversee the collegiate deans, handle all the academic and student affairs. 
Also acting as a liaison between the Alumni board and the University, Fr. Hes-... burgh annually addresses the Board and periodically speaks to the regional alumni clubs, located throughout the country. 
The president also celebrates Masses on 
campus and spends time fundraising outside 
of the University. If he is out of town, his 
power is assumed by either the provost or 
the vice presidents. 
Fr. Hesburgh is also actively involved with 
a number ofpolitical, academic, theological 
and corporate committees. This year's com­
mittees included: the Washington, D.C.­
based Overseas Development Council, the 
U.S. Select Committee on Immigration and Refugee Policy, the Cambodian Crisis Com­mittee (chairman), the Jerusalem Ecumeni­cal Institute for Advanced Theological Studies (chairman), the Council on Foreign Relations, the Rockefeller Foundation and the Chase Manhattan Bank board -to men­tiona few. 
He said, however, tqat the past year he had 
"too many" committees. Next year, he will 
serve on fewer committees. Two ofthe com­
mittees he will be leaving are the Rockefel­
ler Foundation and the Chase Manhattan 
~oard, which has caused some controversy 
since the bank has been accused ofunethical 
tactics in Third World countries. 
Such outside act~vities have become a 
sensitive issue with Fr. Hesburgh, for critics 
contend that he is nol ·working enough on 
Uniyersity-related affairs. 
He answered the charge saying, "I put over I00 percent of time in on the job be­cause 60 percem ofthe time. I work doubk shifts. lbat adds up to more than I00." 
SeeliESBURGH, page 11 
\i~ 

Observer News Supplement -Campus Government 
.Saturda,, August 2~2, ~81 -page 9 . 
--------------.------------. ---------­
29 years 
Joyce sees self as ND treasurer 
ByJEFF HARRINGTON 
News Staff 
Subordinate only to the University Pres!• dent and Provost, the Executive Vice President holds one of the most powerful positions at Notre Dame. For 29 years Fr. Ea­mund P. joyce h:15 been the one man in charge of the office's diverse: respon.­sibilitles. 
Although, technically, the role of the Ext­ecutive Vice-President is to oversee aU departments within the University, Fr. joyct~ views his major responsibility as being treasurer for Notre Dame. "Since my back· ground is in accounting, I think my foremost duty is to act as chief financial officer," he said. 
Using the maintenance ofschool athletics and the building expansion program as ex­amples, Fr. joyce stressed his belief that "all decisions come down to resources -and that's money." He further stated that Notre Dame's financial troubles arc multiplied by today's nationwide economic woes. "The major issue (at Notre Dame) is surviving be­cause of financial problems. Costs are going up and up, so the future is anybody's guess. 
"The only private schools that will survive," he said, "will be those able to raise enough money." 
Considering the Oriiversity's recent suc­cessful fundraising drive, Fr joyce expressed his optimism that Notre Dame would be one of the surviving private institutions. The financial campaign, which wound up a year ahead of schedule last December, raised pledges of $180 million, $50 million over the original goal. Fr. joyce attributed the drive's success largely to Notre Dame alumni, a group he labelled "the backbone of any fundraising effort." An unprecedented 86 percent ofND alumni participated in the campaign. 
Fr. joyce explained that his other major responsibilities (faculty board chairman, • director of athletics, and building commit­tee chairman) all took a "backseat" to his financial role in the University during the campaign. 
Fr. joyce was elected Executive Vice­President by the Board ofTrustees in 1952, simultnaeous to Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh's rise to the presidency ofthe University. 
Deeming the 29 years of experience he and Fr. Hesburgh have shared "the longest 

Gordon serves as middleman for scholars andsponsors 
ByJIM McCLURE 
News Staff 
Graduation day does not necessarily signal the end ofone's education at Notre Dame. In 
fact, for many, four years of undergraduate education is just the beginning of the "Notre 
Dame experience". 
Robert Gordon, Vice President for Advanced Studies, has the task ofworking with the 
University's professors and graduate students to ensure the quality of their education, 
research, and overall scholarship. 
A large part of ensuring this quality is securing awards for sponsored programs for research, C:acillties and equipment, education, and service. These sponsored programs are vital to graduate and research work at Notre Dame. Gordon pointed out that " a universlt} can't afford everything a scholar would want to do." 
Gordon received $11,772,751 for sponsored funds in the year endingjune 30, 1980. 84 percent of this total came from government agencies, with the remainder coming from corporations and private foundations. 
Research projects at Notre Dame are found in many areas, from science and education to 
the humanities and social sciences. "We don't do everything there is to be done, but what 
we do, we do well" Gordon said when questioned about Notre Dame's reputation for 
research. He added that "Due to the quality ofour faculty, one out oftwo proposals sub­
mitted to sponsoring agencies are accepted. Not many schools can claim that." 
Gordon acts as a middleman between the individual professor and the particular 
sponsoring agency the professor is seeking funds from. The first step for a professor who 
wishes to initiate a project is to write a proposal. Gordon then assists the educator in 
formulating a budget and submitting the proposal to the appropriate sponsor in the private 
or public sector. 
Government officials often select grants for research as the first items to be cut when 
trimming a budget. Gordon noted that "We aren't going to have all that much money 
available due to the Reagan budget." Hardest hit will be grants for the humanities and social 
sciences. "We'll try to bend our resources toward those areas," Gordon said. 
Public relations 
term of office in the nation," Fr. joyce em­phasized the successful rapport existing be­tween the University President and himself "The officers meet monthly to discuss problems and I remain in close contact with Fr. Hesburgh," he said. 
He added that the decision-making process utiliied is "a relaxed, team effort with no formal vote; a good administrator doesn't make decisions unilaterally." Fr. joyce explained that a consensus is usually reached through consultations with his staff and officers ofthe department in question. 
Born and raised in Spartanburgh, South Carolina, Fr. joyce received his BCS degree in accounting from the University of Notre Dame in 1937. Immediately after being or­dained in 1949, he was stationed at Notre 

Evolving process 
Student govt. seeks unity 
By KELLI FLINT 
SeniorStaffReporter 

The Student Body President, along with his Cabinet and the Student Senate, represents student interests in all aspects of student life. 
"Student government is as good as the people who form it," according to former SBP Paul Riehle. 
Riehle described the tone of student government in general as it has evolved over the past ten years. 
"Student government underwent a major change. after the term of 'The King and His Cat' in the early '70s. 'The King' ran on an 'anti-student government' platform, and at that time, there was much bureaucratic fighting within the system. As a result ofthis fighting, there wasn't much getting ac­complished In student government. 
"The King and His Cat" was more or less a joke ticket. 'The King' did a lot of funny things during his 2-term 'reign' in student government. 'The King' said he believed that many students were taking student govern­ment too seriously, which resulted in the fighting and lack ofaccomplishment. 
"After 'The King', during the mid-'70s, there was a rise in the 'me' generation. Stu­dent government tried to win the respect of the nation. 
"As a result, nothing concrete was ac­complished. Student leaders made most decisions behind closed doors. 
"Toward the late '70s, the attitude towards student government reflected that of the nation. People took more ofan inter­est in things, and wanted to get rid of those institutions that weren't working," he said. 
Frick works as ND~s no.l salesman 
By DAVID SARPHIE 
StaffReporter 
"The one quality that separates Notre Dame from many similar in­
stitutions is the motivation of the faculty and student body," com­
ments James W. Frick, the University's vice president for public 
relations, alumni affairs and development."This motivation propels 
good people to come here. It is the perfect environment for the 
blossomming ofboth thl· student and the teacher." 
Frick probably knows the qualities of this University better thim anyone, because for over 15 years his job has been to "sell" Notre Dame: to the public. He Is in the process of completing the highly­suc(:essful "Campaign for Notre Dame." This fund-raising effort was targetted to raise 1130 million, but the final tallies ofgifts and commit­ments wlll total over Sl 79 mlllion. 
Frick credits hard work and a busy travel schedule to much of the campaign's success. "I can't represent this institution while sitting be­hind a desk. I have to go out and met·t people." And when Frick says he goes out, he means it. "Last year I ate 254 dinners away frqm home," he remarked. Fric:k's travel often takes him to such diverse: settings as Rome, Italy or Uma, Peru. 
Although Frick spends much of his time talking with the corporate ~·xc:Tutives ofSUl'h giants as Gulf Oil, he realizes that the success ofany fund-raising effi>rt depends on the alumni. Frick cites "a genuine love for Notre Dame" and "a pride of association" as causes for the generosity of Notre Dame graduates. 
Whatever the rcal;ons, their generosity is quite Impressive. 86.4 pert·ent ofthe "living, lay, domestic alumni" participated in the recent "Campaign for Notre Dame," and the average alumni gift was $1,994. 
"This is a comment on the success of our graduates and on the part Notre Dame plays in the realization ofthis success." 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association honored Frick for his service to the University and its graduates by presenting him with thejames E. Armstrong Award. The award honors an alumnus and employee ofthe University "who has performed outstanding service and demonstrated qualities In his personal life that reflect the high prin­ciples of the University." Frick is also a Knight of Malta, one of the highest honors bestowed upon Catholics. 
Through participation in organizations not related to the Univer­sity, Frick has followed the example 'of University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. He is currently the chairman of the executive committee of the St. joseph County Bank and has worked with the United Negro College Fund and the United Way. "Working with outside organizations makes my job here at the University much bet­ter," he explains. "It gives me a little different perspective." 
Frick's association with the University began when he entered as a freshman in the fall of 1947. Four years later, he received his under­graduate degree in Business Administration. He later received his Ph.D. in Educational Administration from Notre Dame. 
Frick joined the University's development staff in 1951 and became Director of Development in 1961. Four years later, he was elected Vice President for Public Relations and Development, becoming the first layman to hold such an office at Notre Dame. 
Frick's long association with the University is partly responsible for his high praise of its qualities. "A good organization like Notre Dame must know who it is and where it's going," he remarks. Few men have worked harder than Frick to help Notre Dame find that special iden­tity and plan its future. 
Fr. EdmundP.]oyce 
Dame to teach religion and act as assistant to the Vice-President for Business. After three years, in the summer of 1952, Fr. joyce was elected Executive Vice-President by the Board of Trustees. 
Riehle expressed optimism regarding the 
Murday administration. 
"I can foresee many good things happen­
ing in Don Murday's administration. Don is 
the most experienced SBP Notre Dame haS 
ever had. He has been a hall president for 2 
terms, which means that he served on the 
HPC for 2 terms. 
"He has worked In student government as 
executive coordinator of the cabinet, which 
gives Wm a better understanding ofthe func­
tions of the cabinet. He has also worked on 
issues with the Board of Trustees," Riehle 
explained. 

"I was an Inexperienced SBP. I came in, not knowing how to make all ofthe bodies of student government work. Don has a very good idea about how to accomplish this, so there was a good transition period between his administration and mine. 
"We communicated information on an in­
formal basis. I think that Don knows all ofthe 
ins and outs ofthe administration, as weD as 
its functions. In an institution like Notre 
Dame, this is half ofthe battle," he said. 
Riehle sees the need for social space as one of the most important issues C:acing the new adminiStration. 
"I think that Don's major challenge will be the social space problem on campus. He was involved in getting the Chautauqua project offthe ground. What he has to do now is im­prove It, make it a real coffee-house. 
"There really isn't any atmosphere in the Chautauqua right now. He'll have to Imple­ment the second and third phases of the Chautauqua project, which include a game room, non-alcohollc beverages -the whole aesthetic quality," he explained. 
Murday describes the CLC, Cabinet, HPC, and Student Senate: as 'constantly Interact­ing'. 
"There is constant interaction among the separate bodies, with the Senate as the power base. "The SBP operates with all of the student government bodies. When necessary, I deal directly with the administration, as repre­sentative ofthe bodies as a whole. 
"The Senate serves the constituents. All legal matters come to the senate, as weD as matters of conflict that need an 'OK' by Fr. john Van Wolvlear, Vice-president for Stu­dent Affairs. 
"The Cabinet serves as 'troubleshooter' for students. It doesn't make laws -It inves­tigates, which includes dealing with the ad­ministration. 
"The HPC is an 'input' body. The HPC has 3 representatives and a chairman on the Senate. It is the main lobbying body on campus, coming up with both resolutions and input," he concluded. 
The HPC is the most representative body on campus, even more so than the Senate, according to HPC chairman Mike Martin. 
"We represent both the halls and the campus community, with representatives from each dorm serving on the council. 
"Our goal for '81 -as In every year -is to Improve campus life, particularly dorm life. 
"The: HPC forms a very powerful body. Through this power we would like to first improve campus life. We would then like to develop and define the: relationship bc:­
See UNITY, p~~~e 10 
Observer News Supplement -Campus Government1, Saturday, August 22, 1981 -page 10 
continuedfrom page 8 
verslty stands and where we are going in future years," O'Meara said. "The final report to Father Hesburgh, however, will be my own." 
O'Meara Is excited about the future ofthe j 
. 
' ./ 
·---~-J 
Fr.john Van Wolt•lear 

Van Wolvlear oversees student life 
By DAVE RICKABAUGH 
Sen for StaffReporter 
Fr. John Van Wolvlear, vlce-pn:sident for student affairs, characterizes the Office of Student Affairs as being "responsible for evt•ry aspect of the student's life except for academic and financial." 
The office of vice president oversees the the dean of students, dean of placements, minority student dirt•ctors, student ac­tivities. foreign student advisors, psycho­logical services, the health center, campus ministry, housing, the rectors and staff of ea<.·h hall. 
Fr. Van Wolvlear said the decisions which are his alolle "occur when there's a policy question of the University that might con­flict with a proposal coming from one ofthe offices. 
"I work closely with the various heads of the departments and if they meet with any thorny problem we sit and discuss it and come to an equitable solution as far as a working arrangement for the students or whomever it may be." 
The decisions made by the office result from recommendations submitted by the ht•ad of the department involved. Fr. Van Wolvlear stated "the student organizations have a good bit of influen<.·e. We try to answer the needs of the students and their reasonable requests. I think that that is our main task, to see if it is reasonable. Despite what some people may think, they do have influence." 
continuedfrom page 9 
tween the HPC and the Senate. Thirdly, we would like to further our own independent identity as a student government body," Martin stated. 
Martin explained that the HPC "had to take a step back'' during past year, thus permitting the new Student Senate to gain prestige. . 
"We are'now ready, however, to join the Senate and all of the other forms ofstudent government in the front court. We will join · them with separate, independent roles, yet work together for all of the students," he said. 
The Senate forms a united voice, which can express student views to the administra­tion, according to District 2 representative Brian Callaghan. 
"Before, with the HPC and the CLC, there 
were too many branches. Very little was get­ting done, and a lot ofrepititlon was happen­
ing. 
"I think that the new form of student government at Notre Dame will be much more effective. Hopefully, a lot more can be done by using the Senate," he said. Martin credited Murday with the presentation of a student consensus to the Univt'rsity administration. "Murday's good relationship· with the administration is 
• • .O'Meara 
University. "Our report will have to reassess the mission of our University as a Catholic University, as a great Catholic University," he stated. "When I chose the members ofthe central committee (of PACE), I chose people who are capable of changing their minds on any issue except one: that Notre Dame is destined to be the great Catholic university." 
O'Meara is not yet certain If the proposals of PACE will be submitted to the Board of Trustees for approval. "You must remember that the job of the Trustees is not to run the University, but to ensure that the University is well run," he said. 
One of the chief responsibilities of the Provost is to review faculty tenure and promotion decisions. After lengthy proceed­ings on all levels, the Provost produces a final evaluation of a candidate's qualifica­tions. 
The tenure process begins with the proceedings ofthe department committees, and then moves through the department chairmen to the deans of the colleges. After the tenure packets have followed this route, they arrive at the Provost's office for con­sideration. 
All tenure decisions are reviewed in two series of meetings in March and April by the Provost's Advisory Committee, which then makes recommendations to the Provost on the decision. According to a letter sent from O'Meara to the faculty earlier this year, the function of the committee is to "provide a broad base of experience and expertise, to detect and help solve problems...and to help ensure that high standards are equitably applied across the University." 
Like the PACE committee, however, the final decision lies with the Provost. "The Provost makes his own decision based on his own knowledge and overall perspective of the University," O'Meara said. 
O'Meara's decision is then subject to a final review by Fr. Hesburgh, and the can­didate for tenure or promotion is generally notified by the second week in May. 
0'Meara took over the office of Provost in 1978 at the request of Fr. Hesburgh. In the past he had served as the chairman of the department of mathematics, where he taught freshman calculus for Arts and Letters students. 
"I enjoy the job of Provost," O'Meara said. "Ofcourse you have to find time amidst your duties to keep up with the developments in your field, and research is no longer pos­sible." 
"I miss the rt•search and the teaching, but tht• Provost's office offers other <.'hallenges," he said. "l no longer get to see my graduate students publish their work in Russian, but there arc other rewards." 
• • • Unity 
hy which the students and the administra­tion can maintain an effective line of com­munication," he stated. 
Martin does not see the· Senate as having a negative effect on the HPC 
"There are three representatives from the HPC serving on the Senate, so the input Is there. These representatives are urged to give their input and ideas they receive from the HPC meetings. 
"Consequently, instead of the HPC presenting their views directly to the ad­ministration, they can submit their ideas to the Senate, which can then submit all ideas to the administration as one voice," he ex­plained. 
The Cabinet serves a decision-making function, according to Social Concerns CoordinatorJim Wolfe. 
"The Cabinet combines different points of view to decide on issues," Wolfe said. "We act as 'feelers' for the students, on various aspects ofstudent life. "There are three executive coordinators, each with six sub-positions in their area "The Cabinet as a whole is mainly ac­
countable to the Student Body Officers. 
Wolfe outlined the primary concerns 0 • his group for the 198-1·82 school year. "Our main project for next year, thus tar, is the Social Concerns Film Series. We spon-
I BOARD of TRUSTEESJ 
I 
(UNIVERSITY FELLOWSj 
l 

l 
Hesburgh 
f O'Meara PROVOST] 
r-­

,-M-as__.},___--,J 1....---LL-n-Wo-lvle-ar--., BUSINESS AFFAIRS STUDENT AFFAIRS I 
l 
PRESIDENT 
Joyce

I J
I 
Gordon 
ADVANCED STUDIES 
LCAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL] j Roemer ~_,.1______,
l 
DEAN OF STUDENTS 
I  
EXEC  VP)  
I  

Frick PUBLIC RELAliONS ALUMNI RELATIONS DEVELOPMENT 

I :sBP and CABINET J LHALL RECTORSj McDonnell I 
DIRECTOR OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES I
l

l 
\ STUDENT SENATEj 
l 
(HALL PRESIDENT'S COUNCIL 
I STUDENTS( 
Chart byMichaelMolinelli 

30-yearhistory 
Student voicefluctuates 
ByJEFF CHOPPIN 
SeniorStaffReporter 
The student voice at Notre Dame has both risen and fallen throughout the past few decades, reaching the height of its power in the late 60 s with the creation ofthe Student Life Council, a predecessor of today's Campus Life Council. The introduction of the S~u­dent Senate this year indicates that student leadership may be growing once again. 
The student government of Notre Dame from 1950 to 1968 focused around a student senate. 1n 1968, the senate was composed of 41 members: four representatives from each dorm, four off-campus senators and four stay (transitional) senators. However, this senate proved to be too bulky to perform as an effective body. 
In 1968, in response to the radical outcry for a student voice, the Student Life Council was formed. The SLC was initially endowed with legislative power to change DuLac. However, due to structural flaws and ineffective membership, this power was never realized. 
The SLC was created to address broad issues and to set up a tripartite body. This tripartite body would serve as a forum so that administrators, faculty, and students could sit down together and discuss various issues. 
The first meeting was held on Oct. 22, 1968. The SLC served effectively for several years as a truly representative and responsive body for the University. The make-up of the SLC included six representatives and two ex-officio members each from faculty, student body and administration. 
By 1973, the SLC had exhausted its energy by battlingparietals, the University and South Africa, the Afro-American issue and hall autonomy. 
The years 1974 to 1977 saw little action from the SLC. Although a major ruling on sexuality was proposed, this was vetoed by University ,President Theodore Hesburgh. As the council debated its function to the University, Fr. Hesburgh called the SLC an "anachronism," a throwback to the radical 60s when campus tension had peaked. 
In 1976, the student body recognized the SLC as no longer dealing with student life. However, the students realized the value of retaining a tripartite body, so they effected a change. 
In 1977, Dave Bender andj.P. Russell ran on platforms which called for the restructuring ofthe SLC. Bender won the presidency and proposed the formation ofthe CLC in April of 1977. The focus ofthe new body would center on hall residence life. The new membership would include six rectors, four hall vice pre:sidents, SBP, SBVP, a Student Union representa­tive, a HPC representative, the vice president ofstudent affairs, the dean ofstudents, and one faculty representative. The Board of Trustees authorized the CLC, effective October 31, 1977. On May 4, 1979, the Board amended the ~riginal charter to include another faculty rep, an off-campus rep, and the student judicial coordinator. The first meeting ofthe CLC took place on February 6, 1978. 
Through the.change, the body lost aU legislative power and merely retained the power 
to recommend. The recommendations passed in the CLC are sent to the vice president of 
student affairs. Ifthe CLC wished for an appeal, the recommendation would be sent to the 
provost, and upon further appeal would be sent to the president. However, since Provost 
O'Meara and President Hesburgh have never overruled Fr. Van Wolvlear, the appeal 
process is largely ignored. 
The Hall vice presidents, picked because it was believed that they would be able to donate more time than the presidents, turned out to be an ineffective group. They placed emphasis on dorm interests and not campus-wide issues. The two faculty reps displayed very little interest in the CLC. Quorums were infrequent and the active members found themselves frustrated. · 
The purpose ofthe rector's presence was unclear, too. The original intention ofinclud­ing the rectors was to represent the students' needs. The CLC reasoned that the rectors would know the students' needs through having lived with them and would respond to these needs. Instead the rectors chose to block vote and lobby for the administration's 
wishes. When a resolution would finally be passed by the CLC, Fr. Van Wolvlear, Vice President for Student Affairs, would either veto it or indefinitely postpone his response to it. 
Last spring, several members of the CLC attempted to extend its life. They wanted to change the composition to make the council a viable body. However, the extension was voted down, and the CLC would not meet for almost an entire year. 
SBP Paul Riehle, who sat on the council last year, proposed changes in the composition ofthe CLC, which the Senate passed onjanuary 28, 1981 and sent to the Board ofTrustees for approval. The Board agreed with the changes and authorized the new constitution. 
Under the new constitution, the composition includes the five district senators, two faculty, an HPC rep, the judicial coordinator, the off-€ampus commissioner, the student union director, and the dean ofstudents as voting members. The vice president for student 
miiakiiinigiithieiiSeini~iti:i:ihieioinieiivoiiiciei-iiiaimieianiisiiii'i~i'iri~iioiseiini·esii,ioinieieiaiciihseimiiesiiteir:.;;;--;-;-;··;i;;;!;i;iii~:·ii·i;·-=·iiii;·;;;ISci;e;V~i~OI==rP~-~~~·e~l~l=~S-;';;;;;·=.'c~.._.~!E~~~=,"=·~-==!5!!=-=====·====~aii 
_j 
Observer News Supplement -Campus Government Saturday, August 22, 1981 -page 11 

jim McDonnell 

McDonnell coordinates activities 
By DAVID SARPHIE 
StaffReporter 
"I am the administrative person who coor­dinates and oversees student activities on campus." This is Jim McDonnell's own description of his job as Director ofStudent Activities at Notre Dame. McDonnell also serves as an administrator and advisor for the approximately 170 clubs and organiza­tions at Notre Dame. 
24 hours a day 

Rectors create environment 
By MOLLY NOLAND 
News Staff 
What exactly Is the role of a rector at Notre Diune? Can he kick a 
student out of a dorm? Is he merely an extension ofthe "Notre Dame 
Bureaucracy" or does he operate autonomously? The answers to these 
questions vary from situation to situation and from rector to rector, 
but the basic premise upon which the rectors function Is unique to 
Notre Dame and the envy of many schools. 
The role of the rector is much more complex than that of a live-in house-mother or house-father. According to Fr. Richard Conyers, eight year rector of Keenan Hall, "the role of the rector is the most Important role at Notre Dame; the rector's role Is a first-level pastoral presence In which the rector lives amongst the students and offers interest, enthusiasm, and a 24-hour-a-day presence." Arector must do everything required to guarantee a sound environment for the stu­dent, including taking responsibility for maintenance problems, counseling, spiritual guidance, discipline, community Involvement and administrative responsibilities. 
The rectors are Important also in the formation of hall character. Because every rector is different in his use of the power allotted him, the atmosphere of the halls are largely formed by their ideals. "The dorm mirrors the Individual rector's view of dorm life, says Conyers, "and a rector must have a broad, complete vision to make the hall the best It can be." 
From a woman's point ofview, Sr. Marietta Starrle, four-year rector ofLyons Hall, says "the rector needs to be an adult role model who the students are looking to." Although her role itself differs little from the role of a male rector, she says, "my position here is challenging and exciting because I am assisting women to make their presence known and felt on a par with men's halls rather than simply adjunct to them." 

Stressing the importance ofthe assistant rector, Sr. Starrie bcUevcs that having one lay and one religious staff member In the hall benefits the students: "it is Important for students to see a role model from every walk of life." Like many rector/assistant rector teams, Starric and her assistant divide up the responsibilities: she takes the Liturgical duties for herselfand leaves the social and governmental activities to her ald. This system frees up the rector for availability to the student. one of the most important requirements of the rector according to both Conyers and Starrie. 
With regard to the question ofadmlnlstrative vs pastoral leadership, Starrle admits to feeling a conflict between the two: "although 1prekr to handle problems In a pastoral sense, I am responsible to the ad­ministrative rules, and am sometimes forced Into an administrative role. However, my experience has been that most people respond pastorally." 
The problem ofexactly how far that responsibility goes, and exactly what power the rectors have In a student's life, exists as a major con­cern for many students. However, the amount of power a rector ex­erts depends on his or her personality and philo11ophy. According to Conyers, "a rector who shuts himself off from the problems In the hall is not doing his duty." Although every hall head-staffer will use dif­ferent guidelines for dealing with trouble, they must follow basic Uni­versity rules, and eventually refer the problem to Dean of Students James Roemer. 
Conyers uses two guidelines to determine delinquency. First ofall, a person who exerts negative influence on the hall will be brought before Dean Roemer; and secondly, If off-campus living would be more beneficial for the student -for instance, If he finds an aversion to certain hall rules and hal:lltually breaks them -he will be referred to the Dean. Although the rector Initiates disciplinary action, Dean Roemer has the final decision. 
Of primary. concern to McDonnell Is the 
funding of over 50 clubs that do not receive 
money from other sour<.·es. He is the chair­
man of a studcnt activity fee subcommittee 
that must annually allocate 20 percent ofthe 
total student activity fe(' to these clubs. With 
a l:ludget of $34,000, the subcommittee met 
last Septeml:ler to determine this funding. 
In years pa~t. the approximately 50 mis­cellaneous dulls received only the left over funds from the student government budget. McDonnell was pleased with this year's al­l_ocatlon process, which allowed the student government HO percent of student fees and the sul:lcommittee 20 percent. "Two years ago, only 21 ofthe '50 some groups received funds," he said. "This year we were able to fund '50 some groups." 
McDonncll's subcommittee was able to fund several special projects this year. Among these projects were the Van Lines to nearl:ly malls and Improvements in the Nazz and ticket office. 
Unlike other institutions, many of the or­ganizations at Notre Dame receive their fun­ding directly from the University. This is one of the reasons that Notre Dame has one of the lowest student fees in the country. "The activity fee that you pay has a very specific purpose," McDonnell commented. "The large chunk of activities which are university-funded here at Notre Dame come out of the student fees at other institutions." 
McDonnell's subcommittee gives highest priority to those funding requests of the volunteer service organizations. "I think it would be fair to say that we give the volun­teer servl~es -those organizations that are providing a valuable service to disad­vantaged members of the Notre Dame and South Bend communities, the highest priority." 
Sr. Judith Beattie, the director of Volun­teer Services, and Fr. Mario Pedl assist McDonnell as advisors for many University activities. Beattie serves on the student ac­tivity fee subcommittee with McDonnell, while administrating Notre Dame's volun­teer organizations. Pedl Is an advisor for the sophomore, junior, and senior classes and also works with the Scholastic and thejug­gler. 
McDonnell, who has ·a master of arts de­gree In teaching English and a Ph.D. In history of education from Notre Dame, is in his second year as Director of Student Ac­tivities at Notre Dame. McDonnell taught at the high school level for four and one-half years before becoming assistant dean ofstu­dents at Saint Joseph College In Maine. He later served as the dean of students at that college, while teaching part time in the English and education departments. McDon­nell and his wife, Colleen, have three children. 
Sketches by Pat Byrnes 
Investing and spending

Mason manages Universityfunds 

ByJIM McCLURE 
News Staff 
Monetary support of the major goals of the University is the responsibiltiy of the Vice-President for Business Affairs, Thomas ). Mason. 
Mason listed those goals as "Instruction, research, and public service," and added that "We are not involved in any of these areas. Our basic thrust is service. We're here to service the academic community." 
Notre Dame's current total revenue is 196,524,295. Mason o~ersees and records bow this money is spent and invested. His areas of responsibility include the control­lers office, the financial aid office, the Invest­ment office, the University insurance office, and any areas relating to non-academic per­sonnel. 
Other responsibilities include the physi­
continuedfrom page 8 
In order to work double shifts, he works into the early hours ofthe morning and often answers mail on airplanes. Much of his time is spent in New York and Washington, D.C., where ·a majority of his committees are headquartered. 
He prides himself on answering all his mall personally and doing so with a certain degree ofexpediency. "I can make decisions quickly," he said, "I have to." 
A sample of mail? According to the presi­dent, approximately ten letters cross his 
...Trustees 
continuedfrom page 8 
' not be the legal trustees of Notre Dame. Today, the University Fellows provide three basic functions at Notre Dame. These duties Involve electing trustees every six years, maintaining the University's religious character, and approving all issues concern­ing the disposal of any appreciable amount of University property. Aside from these functions, the Board ofTrustees governs the University. In recent years, the Board ofTrustees and its integrated group of Unlveslty Fellows has been faced with many controversial issues, such as coeducation at Notre Dame, the ap­proval ofalcohol on campus, the question of subsidizing off-campus housing, and a re­quest for more social space that still exists today. 

Thomas]. Mason 
cal plant (construction and maintenance of 
campus buildings and grounds), suppon 
services (such as the laundry, golf course, 
and dining halls), and maintenance of the 'records ofthe Campaign for Notre Dame. 
• • .Hesburgh 
desk each week from mothers of rejected students -pleading with him to let their children in. There are also grievances and requests for appearances and advice. The committees generate their own sacks of mail. 
This year, Fr. Hesburgh will deliver seven commencement addresses at colleges and universities throughout the nation. 
Since he frequently travels to foreign countries, the question of communication does arise. Fr. Hesburgh said he can speak five languages fairly adequately, and speaks seven to eight "O.K." 
"The lion's share of the money comes from student tuition and fees," Mason stated. The other sources of revenue are sales and services of auxiliary enterprises, endow­ment income, and various gifts, contracts, and grants. 
Mason does not set the priorities oft Campaign for Notre Dame. That is done In part by James Frick, Vice-President for Public Relations, Alumni Affairs, and Development, and In part by the donors themselves. "Most donor's dollars are clas­sified as Restricted, which means the money Is restricted to specific areas the funding was raised for," Mason explained. 
New construction currently underway in­cludes the Stepan Chemical Building and the new WNDU Studios. Mason is also Involved with an extensive dormitory-remodeling project and the rebuilding ofSaint Edward's Hall. 
He has set I982 as his retirement year, a year which would mark his 30th year as Uni­versity President. He said he thlnk..'i and hopes the trustees will give him another job at Notre Dame, which "could possibly in­volve some travel." 
As for the present, hc ha'l another year's work waiting for him in his plush office beneath the golden dome. Sitting hehind his desk with a stack of mail, a packed travel schedule and a number of decisions to con­front, he said, ·~1 just takt" life a day at a time. That's the only way I know how to survive." 
.Voice 

continuedfrom page 10 
affairs was made a non-voting member. 
I Riehle re-created the CLC to serve as a l:oody more oriented towards si·Jdent affairs In general, not just those related to hall life. The council will still contlnllt: to serve as a recommending body, but the new constitution contains mandatory attendance require­ments and a shorter reply period for Fr. Van Wolvlear. The five senators create cross ties 
I between the Senate and the CLC, with each body providing inputl<> the other. The Senate will serve as the students' legislative body. 
The administration views the council as a "sounding board." However, Fr. Van Wolvlear said that the CLC has "lost its effectiveness and usefulness with this office" because It met only twice this year,and he stated that he hoped the CLC would be "resuscitated" next year. He reported that two years ago "a lot was discussed, we got quite a bit accomplished." 
Dean Roemer, despite his negative actions In the CLC in the past, still holds a voting :position In the CLC. Explaining that the CLC Is the official student advisory group to the , Office ofStudent Affairs, he said the students have more power now than ever before In the 
CLC because ofthe better student to facultyIadministrator ratio. In regard to the change
1

from a legislative body (SLC) that addressed University policy to the present CLC which addresses student affairs, Roemer said, "Students nowadays are more Interested in theirI, careers, the personal aspect, and less interested in University poUcy." 
'ii~·-~.!~-~~r~.T~·-~~-~L·~-~.-~.J,~-~-i-~-!~.~-ii~~~~~-·-~·ii_iiiiiiiiiijs;ipc\!i... iiiiii_! ..ii.i!.~.!.i'!i""~'~--~""~.,~.--~~-!!-i!.~-i,.., i¥i.iiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiii:iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~:­
..~a![iiiii-.!i:e:i!jii si~-­

"'·,· : -..~ ..·. ,.·:, 


~­
......_.,___.______ 

The Observer Saturday, August 22, 1981 page 12 
~... Z210P 0 
--· ·· El Lc~ 
Includes I Wanna Drive You Home ·~ It's So Hard Tube Snake BoogiePearl Necklace 
TIME 
including: 
The Way life's 
MeeniToBe Hold On right Here Ia The News 
• Twilight/Rain Ia Felling 

JET WABNEB 
Albums a Tapes 
6. 
Albums Only ... 

Many, Many More To Choose From! (While Last.) 
FLEETWOOD MAC BareTrees 
Includes Sentimental Lady /Child of Mine 

JOURNEY 
ESCRPE 
including: Who's Cry1ng Now/Stone In Love Don't Stop Believ~n"/Oead Or Alive Keep On Runnin 
GEORGE 
HARRISON 


Givethegift of music. 
1HEHAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
-----------------~-------------~ -------~----­
The Observer 
Saturday, August 2~, 1981 -page 13 
WHERE ro FIND " ON THE RRST FLOOR OF THE HH.ES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
1. ENTER 
-2. NOTRE DAME SPORTSWEAR 
3. 
JACKETS 

4. 
CAPS 

5. 
BLAZERS .6. IMPRINT SHOPS 


7. 
COPYING 

8. 
NOVEL TIES 

9. 
INSIGNIA WARE 

10. 
GREETING CARDS 

11. 
RECORDS 

12. 
HEALTH & BEAUTY AIDS 

13. 
STATIONARY & NOTES 


14. 
SCHOOL SUPPLIES 

15. 
ART GAllERY . 

16. 
BRIEF BAGS 

17. 
PICTURES & PLAQUES 

18. 
RELIGIOUS JEWELRY 

19. 
FASHION JEWELRY 

20. 
NOTRE DAME JEWELRY 


20. 
PENS 

21. 
CALCULATORS 21.lJP TO BOOK DEPARTMENT 


23. 
PARCEL CHECK 

24. 
12 CHECKOUT STATIONS TO BEITER SERVE YOU....... 

25. 
EXIT ONLY 




Please use this WEST entrance ~ _ !~ ·l 6

WHERE TO FIND BOOKS ON THE UPPER LEVEL OF THE HAMMES BOOKSTORE AT NO-TRE DAME 
-I'S'fCHOlQGV ­

1 I I I I I I I [ I ~~---'\ 
...1'\aiCAliONS HU110R IIUoVIl )t 
17. ENGIN&AitCa O()llt(.
• MUStC 
. II MCHiriCYUAE
10.~­
11-~ENOA
11.~·-­
•. aex-ING
ti.IIIIMICETWG_ 
IICM..IIIG
13.1MlHBM.!....­
22. ll.liCMICAL INCa.
14.JIIMN//Brlf 
D.WIFEDICIINCE
... M.a.A­

... ....,..OCh' ·•
• E()OIIOI'F:8 


--~------~-~ 

Saturday, August 22, 1981 -page 14
Editorials 
Don't just .,sit ther~· 
1'bis is it. But don't expect the weather to stay this way. p;!fi . Welcome to Notre Dame. Forthe next four years, or maybe more, you'll come in contact with a wealth of people, places and experiences that you may never forget. 
But the best way to do that isn't by biding out in your dorm room watc~ ing M-A-S-H re-runs. It is by getting involved in the almost amazing assortmentofextra~urricular activities. · · 
The list is far too long to include here -:;;-everything from the AClC:OUDtlll Association to Women's Fast Pitch Softball, if you can't find groups, clubs or activities that interest you, then perhaps you are' better 
staying in and watching television. , 
These groups are not just a way of meeting people with the same inter­ests and ideas as yours, they can also be a way to do some good for the community as well. The Logan Center, located within walking distance of campus, offers students the opportunity to work with handicapped children for several hours on weekends. Volunteer Services, located in the LaFortune Student Center, allows students to tutor, teach, or just help people in the South Bend area who truly need it. There are other projects like these that are available to stUdents. <w 
One thing that Notre D.ame does not have is fraternities and rarity among colleges today. But you'll find that dorm life soon com­pensates for that. Each dorm develops a certain' 'hall spirit'' that generally develops into countless group outings, volunteer projects, voracious parties and lasting friendships. 

Hall spirit also leads several thousand Domers each year to participate in th~ lnterhall, or Non-Varsity Athletics, program. Among the offered are football, ice hockey (both full pads), basketball and bali¢blill~¥ but individual and team tournaments are held in virtually every can name. Whether you're on the si.delinescheering on the ''Big Dillon Hall in their annual football rivalry with Morrissey expected, but a demonstration in are wealthy and/or they have a future trying to round up enough people for your 16" softball game, Reaga11 visit favor of Reagan is indeed an oddity that does not seem affected by this will almost certainly involve you at some point during your stay here. and especially newsworthy at Notre president's appearance at their 


But even if you don't feel talented enough to compete (that's a rarity Dame. graduation. If one does not "care,"
stirs co11troversy
here too-80 percent of ND students comehere with at least one varsity SuipOrt for Ronald Reagan in the larger sense of the word, then letter), the recreational facilities are simply exceptional. An 18-hole golf means, among one does not belong at Notre Dame. 
011 ND campus 

course, an ice skating rink, indoor running track, 24 outdoor tennis courts, Vietnam was a worthy cause, that El Perhaps you could make this truly racquetball. swimming, the list is endless. With all this available, who can · Editor's Note: P.O. Box Q, The Salvador and other non-democratic your graduation by Jetting Ronald study? Observer's Letters to the Editor governments will receive millions of Reagan and the nation know that his 
That question is often asked ofthe students who spend most of their time.... column, is the thrice-weekly bat­tax dollars to do whatever they want administration does not represent the in the LaFortune Student Center, diligently Working for either the St1ldent tleground upon which students, to their citizens as long as they values of the Notre Dame com­Government orTht Observer. Don Murday is the recently elected Student faculty and interested observers can remain our friends; that the budget munity. Body President, and he would welcome your help in the number ofprojects debate issues of interest to the must be balanced on the backs of the DavidJ. Dreyer, '77 he would like to complete this year. Bill Lawler heads the Student Union, campus. When the decision was an­poor and college students; and that New Paris, Ohio which sponsors activities, dances, parties and cmicerts. (Speaking ofcon• nounced to invite President Reagan returning more fiscal responsibility certs, the Doobie Brothers are just another in an impressive series of bands to commencement last March, the back to our bankrupt states, cities, who have appeared here recently -Bruce Springsteen, REO Speed­letters flowed. Below are samples: and school systems will maintain our wagon, Parliament/Funkadelic, Yes, and the Beach Boys are just a few); 
quality of life, Even the beloved 
Grad speaker 

And ofcourse The Observer always needs new talent. We publishMon• Dear Editor: South Shore would be seriously days through Fridays except during exam weeks. and maintain cotnple~ I was quite surprised to find a wire threatened. 
tha11ks Hesburgh
independence from the University (no advisers, grants, etc.). We are service photo in my daily paper of I urge students to consider that it is main newsgathering source on campus, and your contributions and letters Notre Dame students demonstrating possible to support the fight against 
for Gipp award 

to the editors are always welcome. in favor of Ronald Reagan and inflation without supporting Reagan. But whatever you do, don't bury your head in books for the next four against those who opposed his ap­Perhaps some seniors don't care years. You can do that at any school. Notre Dame offers much more. pearance as your 1981 commence­about other younger students, or El 
ment speaker. Opposition would be Salvadorans, or perhaps their parents Editor's Note: the following letter was sent to University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh last May, from
!1eagan presence a boon to U.S. defense 
the White House in Washington. 
Dear Fr. Hesburgh:

imperialist appetites. I have just read your most 
Editor's Note: In addition to stu­. itiative by the Soviet Union. 

dent columns and editorials, The So: we are rearming. All over the This analysis is not Superman heartwarming letter and want you
William F. Buckley
Observer regularly carries national­place. The press is generous in the stuff. Indeed, it is analysis of the. 
know it is I who should be · ly knawn, syndicated columnists on attention it is giving to the retrieval of kind that will, perhaps perversely, you; thanking you for a most wonder­its editorial pages, such as Garry old aircraft carriers and battleships, please some of Mr. Reagan's critics ful day. 

Wills, Colman McCarthy and to the schedule for Trident I Is, the who think him a simple man. On the Right I opened my certificate of mem­today· s renowned conservative, Wil­activation of the neutron bomb, the He is a simple man; simple in the bership in the Monogram Club and
liam F. Buckley. plans for the new Bl bomber, per­sen~e that his mind is governed by ambiguity was king. And the found to my surprise there were two.
haps along with the Stealth bomber, certain settled axioms. One of these transcription of ambiguity was: if the I was very much moved to discoverCBS' extensive and in many ways which was top secret until the is that the Soviet Union is no likelier Soviet Union hits our Minuteman in­one was for George Gipp. Let mebrilliant five-part series on the pressures of presidential politics to start a nuclear war if there is a high stallations, how can we order our assure you, that one will be par­problems of U.S. defense policy caused Mr. Carter's secretary of probability that the major cities of the submarines and bombers to hit the ticularly treasured. 
gave a lucid pictorial idea of what is defense to chat about it; and then, of Soviet Union will thereupon disap­Soviet Union back, when we know Again my thanks on behalf ofinvolved in a) catching up with the coude, the business about the pear in a mushroom cloud than the that in that event, their second
Soviet Union, while b) making the deployment of the theater nuclear United States would have been likely Nancy and myself and our party. On correct decisions on where to place weapons in Europe by 1983. One ob­to drop atom bombs on Nagasaki and nuclear volley would aim at our the plane ride back to Washington, 
population centers? 

our scarce dollars. CBS' principal server commented that reading the Hiroshima if Truman had thought it everyone was in a glow over the deficiencies, in this otherwise in­papers would suggest that the United likely that Japan would proceed to The men in the Kremlin, assessing warmth or'hospitality and the great States was preparing to go to war. the character of Ronald Reagan, spirit of the graduating class. They
valuable series, were: a) its failure to take out San Francisco :tnd Los An­
But it has been a long time since know that they are not dealing with were really wonderful and you must
award itself sufficient credit for the geles with its nuclear bombs. 

thoughtful people recognized the an ambiguist in the above «ense. be very proud of them.
disrepair of our defense system We have, especially in the yearsdilemma adumbrated in the ex­Reagan is plain-spokenly attached to Ronald Reagan 
("The Selling of the Pentagon," in gone by, worshipped at the altar of 
traordinary CBS series, with its fero­the proposition that if the Soviet Uni­Washington, D.C. 
which lO years ago CBS assailed the ambiguity. Adlai Stevenson's mind 
cious (and correct) account of the on starts a nuclear war, we will in­
Pentagon for its public efforts to was so refined, his votaries used to 
devastation that would follow upon a stantly retaliate. He is wedded to that 
bring attention to its depreciating ar­think, that he could see into the very
nuclear attack. A nuclear exchange? proposition on the grounds less that
senal, harmonizes with the regular bowels of the ambiguity of the uni­
The Observer welcomes letters

Ah, there's the rub. nuclear incineration would be poetic
inattention over the same decade that verse. George Kennan, as he headed 
from its readers. These should be
Let us back off for a moment from justice for the Soviet Union than that 
CBS and the other networks gave to toward ambiguity, became more 
addressed to the Editorials
the question of the number of the way to prevent Assault One is to 
progressive military advances by the celebrated by the academy. 

Editor, P.O. Box Q on campus.
make it unambiguously clear that As­Soviet Union) and, b) a failure suffi­launches and effective throw weight. Oh, there were certain questions 
Letters should be typed, double­
ciently to suggest the adamantine I think it inescapably correct to say about which ambiguity was not per­sault Two would follow. This is a very risky world. But Reagan is spaced, and brieffor best chancelengths to which the Soviet leader­that the presence of Ronald Reagan mitted: the proposition that we 
making it less so. of publication. We reserve the
ship has shown itself prepared to go in the White House is in and of itself should instantly get out of Vietnam, 
Universal Press Syndicate right to edit.
in ord~r to advance its ideological-the greatest deterrent to a nuclear in-for instance. But in matters nuclear, 

P.O. Box 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
==IheDbseaer== 

Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Cbief.........................................john McGrath SMC Executtve Editor .....................Mary Agnes Carey Managing Editor ......................................Tom jackman
"{he f!bserver is an independent newspaper published by the students of the SMC News Editor ................................Cathy Domanico 
Executir'e News Editor .............................. Lynne Daley 
Umvers1ty of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarilv PbotoEdttor...................................................]ohn Macor 
News Editor .............................................Tim Vercellotti
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reponed 

Business Manager ....................................Rich Coppola
as ~cc_urately and _as <;>bjectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a 

Senior Copy Editor ................. ...... Mary Fran Callahan 
Controller........................................................)oe Mulflur
maJor!tY of the Edttonal Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views 

Sports Editor ............................:............ Michael Ortman 
Advertising Manager ......................................Mark Ellis 
of the1r authors. Column space is available to all members of rhe communi tv. and the{ree expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encou~~e_d. 

Circulation Manager ........................Tom MacLennan 
i 
L 

.j'iiflili~ '<· •. .·~ /"• j/~:;.· .~ . 

.~:.:..~.· )¢• 


~~()1"tSc~==,..==i=e&:S========*=====================sa=tu=r=da=y=,A=u=gu=s=t2=2=,I=9=8=I=-=P=~=e=I~5
....,..ca.. 

shot lead after two rounds of the $1 50,000 World Championship of Notre Dame Stadium soon will be entering its 52nd season as
Rah, rah! home ofthe Fighting Irish. 
Women's Golf. Caponi's 36-hole total of I 39left her at 5-under-par for the tournament and gave her a 4-shot margin over Sally Little ofSouth Africa. Little matched par of72 In the pleasant, overcast playing condi­tions at ~haker Heights Country Club. She had a total of 14 3, 1-under­par for the tournament that carries a record first prize of 550,000. ­
AP 
Classifieds
Larry Gura notched his seventh consec.utive regula~-~ason 
by Tht' Uhral'a .uH.l Tht> !t.rrouult'd Pr,·" 

The NVAofficehas prepared a four page tabloid detailing 
.~FOOTBALL programs Notre Dame offers to the non-varsity athlete. Several of 
these informative papers are beingcirculated around campus through 
the weekend, and more will be dropped off in both dining hails on Exlblllon 1t1onc11nge NAT10NAL CONFI!RENCE
Monday. The publication includes information about facilities, types 
of(;ompctition, insuram:e requirements and more. -Tbe Observer EMf 
w L Pet. Washington 2 0 1.000 St. Louis 2 0 1.000Everystudentwho plans on participating in a non-contact N.Y. Giants 2 0 1.000 Philadelphia 1 1 .500
intramural sport must complete a medical consent, insurance and 
Dallas 0 2 .000 

release form available in the Non-Varsity Athletic office, room C-2 of 
C.nlnllthe Athletic and Convocation Center. For contact intramural sports Green Bay 0 1.000
2 

(football, soccer, basketball, hockey and wrestling) or any club sport, Detrort 1 1 .500 Chicago 0 2 .000
students must bring proof of Insurance (copy of policy or insurance 
Tampa Bay 0 2 .000 

ll> card ONLY) to the NVA office before he or she will be allowed to Minnesota 0 2 .000 participate. The University is not responsible for any injury that may WMt occur to a person while he or she is participating in any intramural or New Orleans 2 0 1.000 
San Francisco 1 1 .500

club sport activity. Freshmen are advised to check with their parents 
Los Angeles 2 .333 about this now rather than waiting until the entry deadline of a par­Atlanta 2 .333 
ticular sport. -The Observer 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE EUI 

w L Pet.Taiwan defeated Venezuela 3-2 in the Senior New England 2 0 1.000 Miami 2 0 1.000
Little League World Series last night in Gary. In the second game, Matt 
N.Y. Jets 1 1 .500 

Lynch's ninth inning sacrifice fly to drove injeffSaenger to send Dan­Baltimore 0 2 000 ville, Calif., past Taiwan 7-6. Lynch also was the winning pitcher. In Buffalo 2
0 .000 
Centr•

today's championship, Georgetown, Del. plays Danville, Calif. If 
Cincinnati 2 0 1.000 

California wins, the two teams square off again. If Delaware wins the 1 .667
Cleveland 2 

first matdJ, the East team takes the title. -AP Houston 1 1 .500 Pittsburgh 1 .500 
w... 
San Otego 2 t .667

Dan Halldorson, the Canadian pro who won the Pen­1 1 .500
Oakland sacola Open last year, hadn't played particularly well in 1981. But Kansas City 1 1 .500 
today he takes a two-stroke lead into the third round ofthe $350,000 
Denver 0 2 .000 Seattle 0 2 .000

rJuick Open with a 10-under-par total of I 34 after rounds of66 and 68. Tied for second are Calvin Peete and Roger Maltbie, who is making a Le81 Night'a Reaulta gritty comeback after finishing in a disappointing tie for second in last San Diego 33. Los Angeles 29 
Only game S<:heduled 

week's Hartford Open. The winner of this tournament will receive $63,000. -AP 
Today'a Oamea Green Bay at Denver Miami at Detroit 
Buffalo at Cleveland 

John McEnroestruggled McEnroe struggled through, and 
the upsets continued as the $200,000 Association of Tennis Profes­sionals moved to the semifinals yesterday at the jack Nicklaus Sports Center In Mason, Ohio. Veteran Stan Smith, seeded 16th, upset ninth seed Vltas Gerulaltis, last night, the player who knocked off second­seeded Jimmy Connors the night before. McEnroe lost his first set to 
12th seeded Bob Lutz I -6, but rallied to win the final two, 6-3, 6-2. McEnroe scored five aces in the final set to win the match. Promotors of the tournament were jolted Thursday when second-seeded Con­nors was defeated by ninth-seeded Gerulaitis. The only seeded players remaining are McEnroe, first, and Smith, I6th. -AP 
Salvador Sanchez used a stunning left-right combina­tion to put Wilfredo Gomez nearly through the ropes in the eighth round and retain his World Boxing Council featherweight title last night, handing Gomez his first defeat. Referee Carlos Padilla stopped the scheduled 15-round bout at 2:09 of the eighth round despite a feeble protest from Gomez, the WBC's super bantamweight cham­pion. Sanchez controlled the fight from early in the first round when he used a left hook to send Gomez to the canvas for the eight-count. Gomez continued to fight, but it was clear he was out of it. Gomez's right eye was nearly closed by a massive contusion on his right cheekbone that caused the entire upper right side ofhis face to swell. His left eye was nearly closed but was not as bad as the right. The loss was the first for Gomez, of Puerto Rico, In 33 fights. His first profes­sional tight ended In a draw, and he won his next 32 by knockout. Sanchez is now 40-1-1. The 24-year-old Gomez has said he will relin­quish the super bantamweight title he has defended 13 times. He has 
been having trouble making that weight limit. Gomez received a 
reported $500,000 for last night's fight. Sanchez, 22, who reportedly 
recleved S750,000 for the fight, leaped into the air when Padilla 
stopped the bout. He appeared in good shape, hardly winded from the 
fight. AP 
Veteran Donna Caponi, admitting her confidence Is near Its zenith, fired a 3-under-par 69 yesterday and assumed a 4­
victory against his former team, hurling a four-hitter and reunng 15 straight batters in one stretch as the Kansas City Royals blanked the slump-ridden New York Yankees 4-0 last night. Meanwhile, aa pair of 
All classifieds must be received by 3:00 two-run homers by Richie Hebner and Lou Whitaker and a solo shot by Steve Kemp handed the Detroit Tigers their seventh consecutive victory, a 7-4 triumph over the Texas Rangers. Also, Ron Jackson 
p.m. ofthe day prior to the issue in which .
belted a three-run homer, while AJ Williams, Doug Corbett and Jerry Koosman combined to scatter eight hits, leading Minnesota to a 7-6 vktory over the Milwaukee Brewers, breaking the Twins' six-game 
the ad is run. The Observer office will 
losing streak. In Anaheaim, Cal., Dan Ford had four hits and five runs batted in, and Rod Carew drilled five hits to lead a 14-hit attack as the California Angels whipped the Cleveland Indians 12-2. Also on the West Coast last night, jim Palmer pitched a six-hitter for eight innings 
accept classi.O.eds Monday through and John Lowenstein paced a 10-hit Baltimore attack with two runs 
batted in as the Orioles beat the Oakland A's 4-2. Joe Rudi hit a two­run, pinch-hit homer in the top ofthe ninth inning to give Boston the 
Friday, 10:00 a.m. to S:OO p.m. All clas­lead, and the Red Sox went on to a 7-4 victory over the Seattle Mariners. Earlier yesterday, a dramutic two-run, two-out home run in 

Good night-and God ,... 

the bottom of the ninth was what the Toronto Blue Jays needed to 
si.O.eds mu:'t be pre-paid, eitherinper-
beat the vlsltng Chicago White Sox, 5-4. -AP 
1•~~~.-_.~~~r.W-~~-~.-_.-~•·•·•·•..----·--------·.-~~._._so~n.o~_r_duo _..____
~ ·*··---·-· _________,~·~~-h•_•th•e._~.-~·--_.__ .. :•wowcp___________ 
, 
43 
42 
43 
46 
38 
55 41 7 
33 
19 
51 55 
83 
47 
, 
51 
« 
53 40 24 
54 68 20 55 
74 31 23 21 45 
-:J; 

........ ,.. I J ~~ { ;Ill/Ill/1111 -. , 
... 
23 31 24 
33 
54 
31 
« 
38 
41 47 
30 55 88 61 
PA 37 20 28 
« 
34 
37 55 37 67 
69 50 16 57 57 Cincinnati at Chicago Houstor>at Tampa Bay 

N.Y. Jets at N.Y. Giants Washington at Baltimore St Louis at Kansas Crty Seattle at San Francisco Pittsburgh at Dallas Atlanta at Minnesota 
T-w·aGamM New Orleans vs. Philadelphia at Syracuse Oakland at New England 

Second.... NAT10NAL LEAOIIe 

EMf w  L  Pet.  o•  
St.louis  6  3  .887  
New York  8  5  .545  t  
Montreal  5  ..  .556  1  
Chicago Pittsburgh  5 5  6 7  .455 .4t7  2 2.5  
•·Philadelphia  3 w...  7  300  3.5  
Houston  7  ..  .638  
Atlanta  7  4  638  
Cincinnati  6  4  .600  .5  
San Francisco  6  5  .545  1  
x-Los Angeles  8  5  545  1  
San Diego  2  10  .167  5.5  
•·first half champion  

Ye81erday'aReaulta 

San FranciS<:o 4. Chicago 3 Pittsburgh 4-3. San Diego 2-2 Montreal4. Atlanta t ( 1 t) Cincinnati 2. New York 0 Philadelphia 5. Houston 4 los Angeles 4. St. louis 0 
Todlly'a GamM Houston (J. Niekro 7-6) at Philadelphia (Ruthven 8·5) San Francisco (Blue 8·8) at Chicago (Bird 2-0) Montreal (Burris 5-5 and Lea 4·3) at Atlanta (Bedrosian 1-1 and Montefusco 1-3) New York (Leach 0-0) at Cincinnati (Pastore 3-4) n San Diego (Wise 3-6) at Pittsburgh (Solomon 5-4) n los Angeles (Valenzuela 9·4) at St. Louis (Forsell 7· 2)n 
Tomorrow'• GamM San Diego at Pittsburgh Montreal at Atlanta New York at Cincinnati los Angeles at St. Louis San Francisco at Chicago Houston at Philadelphia, n San Diego 81 Chicago Atlanta 81 Pnita<»lphla. n loaAnQ.1N 81 Plttlbufgh. n New Yort< at Cincinnati. n San Francleco at St. louie. n 
Only game• acheduled 
a.NCANLIAOU. 

hal  
Detroit Toronto  w•7  L 3 ..  ...... .727 11311  u 1  
Baltimore  8  5  545  2  
Mllwaul<ee  7  8  .Ole  2  
Booton  5  8  .454  3  
x-New Yort<  ..  7  3114  ..  
Cleveland  ..  9  307  5  
WHI  
•-Oal<land  8  ..  BOO  
Seattle  7  5  583  
Chicago  6  5  545  5  
Texas  5  5  500  1  
KansasCHy  6  8  500  1  
Cahlornoa  4  8  400  2  
Minnesota  ..  8  333  3  
x-firot halfchampiOn  

v-..y'•Re-• 

Toronto 5, ChiCago 4 Kansas Clly 4, New York 0 Detrort 7, Texu 4 Minnesota 7, Milwaukee 6 Calllornla t 2. Cleveland 2 Ballimore 6. Oakland 4 Boston 7, Seattle 4 
Todlly'a OamM Texas (Honeycutt8·t) at Detroit (Petry 5·6) Kansas C"y (Spllttorff 3·4) at New York (Reuochel Q-t) 
Chicago (Burns 7·2) at Toronto (Clancy 3-6) Baltimore (McGregor 8·2) at Oal<land (langford 6·8) Minnesota (Redfern 3· 7) dt Milwaukee (Lerch 4·6) n Cleveland (Biyleven 8·5) at California (Witt4·6) n Boston (Oieda t-t) at Seattle (Beattte1-0) n 
Tomorrow'a o...... Chicago at Toronto T exaa at Detroit Kansas CHy at New York Minnesota at Milwaukee Cleveland at California Baltimore at Oakland Boston at Seattle. n 
Monday'ao...,.. Te~~Cas at Toronto Kansas Clly at Detroit, n Minnesota al New York, n Chicago at Milwaukee. n Boston at California, n Cleveland at Oal<land. n Ballimore at Seattle, n 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED i AND 3 BEDROOM 
APARTMENTS 5 BEDROOM HOUSE. 234-2626. 
Furnished apt, 503 t/2 W. Jefferson, Duplex, 3 roomo, 2nd floor, get heal fur· mshed. 289-6307. 234-0596. 

I PER~ONALS I 
r<> a11 osSERvE liTEs. Beat of luck w~ the pap8f. and keep In touch. 
Letty 

YEAH, WE'RE tJACK IN SPIRIT. AT LEAST. THE GHOST ()fMOOSE CONTROl 
HI KIDS 
OOFUlZY 
A.C. welcornetllttle bto and-froeh to penguin heaven 
k"!.--'ll•.llli.-~..$!'!.2L...:aicRU.IJIIJ-'"""'iiipjliliiiiM 
The Observer Saturday, August 22, 1981 -page 16 
Faces & Places 

R~eMemoridBuUillng 
Located at the west end of the South Quad, "The Rock" is the cen­ter for the physical education program. The huge brick structure contains basketball courts, handball­racquetball courts, a weight room, a light apparatus room, a swimming pool, and the golf pro shop. Use of the Rockne Memorial facilities is reserverd for all Notre Dame stu­dents and faculty members upon pre~ntation of a University ID card. Closing time is 11 p.m. daily. 
Stepan Center 
Outside the Stepan Center one can play basketball, football, soccer, rugby and softball. Many ofthe inter­hall sports are conducted in this area of the campus (directly west of the towers). Within Stepan Center are basketball and volleyball courts, open for recreational and league play. Details for availability of the facility may be obtained by calling the Student Activities office at 8411. 
Athletic and Convocation 

Center The double-domed ACC, located The Athletic and Convocation Center (above) gymnasiums, locker -rooms and racquet courts -east of the Stadium, contains more houses the Athletic Department's administrative somethingforeveryone. 
cubic feet ofspace than the Houston 

offices, the basketball arena, hockey arena, auxiliary 
Astrodome. Within the structure are handball and racquetball courts, squash courts, and courts for basket­ball, tennis, and volleyball. One may
The 
also take advantage of the ice rink, boxing room and running track. The ACC is open untillO p.m. during the
NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION 
fall and spring seasons, and until 11 
p.m. during the winter.
presents its annual 


WELCOME WEEK 
Mon., Aug. 24 -Outdoor concert -''Appaloosa'' by the towers Tues., Aug. 25 -Martial arts demonstration with Larry Daniels­
noon on north quad, 5p.m. on south quad -Chautauqua Coffeehouse featUring· ''Haroest'' -"Fame" -7 and 10 p.m. Eng:meering Aud., 51 
Wed., Aug. 26 -Stepan Mall -"Fame" -7 and 10 p.m., Engmeer1ng Aud., 51 Thur. ,Aug. 27 -Stepan Mall -outdoor concert -"]"P· and the Cats" at the Rock Fri., Aug. 28 -"Airplane", 9:30p.m. -Stepan Center, 51 Sat., Aug. 29-POUSH WEDDING featurmg "Rumorz", 52 Sun., Aug. 30-Bus Trip-Whfte Sox vs. N.Y.Yankees 
LOOK FOR NDSU REFRIGERATOR RENTAlS 

·;:a~~~~D~~· 
~·····•••+++•••••••••••••••••++•••+++••················..··········,
I 
:• 
i 
•
,i 
:•
:
•t 
:•
•
i................................
~ 

REFRIGERATOR RENTALS!•. 
call 272-7503 • 
i: 
ESLINGER LEASE SERVICE 
•
2701 South Michlgan i South Bend :
•
: 
''Again Serving • 
:
the Notre Dame Community ... ' ' •
• 
t
............................................) 
Courtney Tennis Center 
Located behind the ACC, the Courtney Tennis Center was the site of the 1971 NCAA Tournament. That event, still considered the finest collection of collegiate tennis talent ever assembled, featured Jim­my Conners, Roscoe Tanner, Brian Gottfreid, Dick Stockton, Harold Solomon, Eddie Dibbs, and Jeff Borowiak. The 24 courts are open whenever weather permits and are free of charge to students. The var­sity teams, however, always receive priority. Burke Memorid GolfCourse 
On the west end of campus is the 18-hole, 6,500-yard University golf course. The course is open until late­fall and reopens in early-spring. Green fees are $2.50 for students, 

faculty and ·staff with proper ID. Alumni may play for S5.50. Outdoor Basketball Courts Outdoor hoops is a popular pastime here at the University. Two 
courts  are  located  behind  Lyons  
Hall,  two  behind  the  Hammes  
Bookstore,  and  eight  in  front  of  

Stepan Center. All ofthese courts are 
the sites ofthe early rounds ofNotre 
Dame's legendary Bookstore Basket­

ball Tournament. Softball diamond and out­
doortrack 

An outdoor cinder quarter-mile track and softball diamond, both located behind the AAF parking lot are now available but the diamond may only be used with permission from AAF officials. 
The Rockne Memorial (top) and the Angela Athletic Facility (bottom) are the hubs ofathletic activity on their respective campuses. 
Shanghai Restaurant in Roseland M on~oluzn Barbeque Szechuan and Mandarin style dinners Sunday 4pm to 9pm 
Mon-Thurs 11 :30am to 9:30pm Fri-Sat 11:30am to 10:30pm CARRY OUT SERVICE Luncheon Buffet Att you can eat 

$3.75 11:30am to 2: 

I The Observer )saturday,Au~t 22, 1981-page 17 
I 
r 
I of ND and SMC athletics 
~ 
Angela Athletic Facility 
Saint Mary's Angela Athletic Facility, located across from McCandless Hall, Is open from 9 am. until II p.m. Monday through Satur­day, and on Sunday from 1 p.m until II p.m. During Notre Dame's home 
) football games, however, AAF is closed from II am. to 6 p.m. The facility contains two tennis courts, two racquetball courts, gymnastics and exercise equipment and areas for both basketball and volleyball. 
I The AAF may only be used by a \ SMC student, faculty or administra­1 lion membc::r. Notre Dame students may also usc the AAF, but a SMC stu­dent must be present and the ratio of 
SMC to NO students must be ap­proximately equal. Outdoor tennis 
Six courts arc available outside Regina Hall and three more courts arc just outside of AAF. The courts may be used by Saint Mary's stu­dents, faculty or administration members on a first come, ftrst served basis. 
Outdoor basketball 
Five outdoor basketball courts also are available outside Regina Hall and arc available to anyone. 
Indoor swimming 
An swimming pool Is located inside Regina Hall and is open from noon ~o I p.m. Monday through Friday, 4 p.m. to midnight Monday through Wednesday and from 4 p.m. until I I p.m. Thursday and Friday. Saturday the pool is open from noon 
to II p.m. and Sunday from noon un­til midnight. 
Rev. Edmund P.joyce, C.S.C.­A 193 7 Notre Dame graduate, Fr. Joyce was appointed executive vice president of the University in 1952, just three yt'ars after his ordination. As Chairman of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics, Joyce main­tains, "First thing..~ come first, and the first thing for us is academics. I tell every squad of athletes that when the students return to campus 
: each fall." 
Gene Corrigan Since succeeding Moose Krause as athletic direciOr just eight months ago, Cor­rigan already has made his presence felt. lie has been Instrumental in the planning and organization of Notre Dame's first-ever athletic endow­ment fund which will Increase op­portunities for all Notre Dame students at all levels ofcompetition. Before coming to Notre Dame, Cor­
• rigan wa'i credited with the rapid growth ofthe athletic department at the University of Virginia during his nine years as director of athletic programs. 
Edward W. "Moose" Krause ­Tacking the word 'emeritus' onto the title he owned for 31 years hasn't 
t changed this cigar-smoking, story­telling administrator one bit. As ath­letic director emeritus, Krause continues to be an Integral part of the Fighting Irish as he has been for over half a century. Now 68, Krause played for Knute Rockne In 1930 and was a regular tackle during the 1931, '32 and '33 campaigns. Notre Dame's first two-sport All-American, Krause was honored not only for his gridiron excellence, but as a baket­ball center as well. He was so dominant in the middle that basket­ball's three second rule was adopted to control-him. At present, Krause is quite active in fund raising activities for the University athletic endow­ment fund. 
Col. john Stephens -He used 
to call himself"Moose's office boy," 
but as associate athletic director, 
Jack Stephens is far more than that. 
After graduating from the University 
of Iowa, Stephens received a mas­
ter's degree in guidance counseling 
from Notre Dame. Following his 
voluntary retirement as command­
ing officer of the University's Army 
ROTC unit in 1968, "The Colonel" 
was named assistant athletic direc­
tor and assumed his present position 
in 1976. He also serves as a director 
of the Walter Camp Football 
Foundation. 
joseph O'Brien -A 1949 Notre 
Dame graduate, O'Brien is begin­
ning his sixth year as assistant ath­
letic director and the department's 
business manager. In 19'i5 he 
became director of personnel func­
tions at South Bend's second largest 
employer-the University of Notre 
Dame. He has been here ever since. 
Roger ValdJscrri -Following 
his 1954 graduation from Notre 
Dame, Valdiserri served briefly as an 
administrative assistant to Fighting 
Irish head football coach Terry 
Brennan. In I 966 he returned to his 
alma mater to become sports in­
formation director and ten years 
later added assistant athletic direc­
tor to his duties. Regarded as one of 
the best in his field, Valdiserri has 
received 31 awards over the past 
five years from the College Sports In­
formation Directors of America for 
his sports publications, many 
regarded as the best in the nation. 
Steve Orsini -Orsini returned to his alma mater last spring to take on the rigors of ticket and promo­tions manager. A 1978 Notre Dame gradate, Orsini served as specialty team captain on Dan Devine's 1977 national championship team. 
Tom Kelly -As director ofnon­varsity athletics, Kelly oversees one of the nation's most extensive In­tramural program for a university the size of Notre Dame. Since there are no fratc.rnities or sororities here, dorm life and its accompanying spirit fill the bill, and this is often seen in interhall competition. Kelly received his master's degree in physical education from Penn State and his master's and Ph. D. in Educa­tional Administration from Notre Dame. After II years as NVA's assis­tant director, Kelly was elevated to his present post in the sprin~ of 
Kelly also served as Notre Dame's baseball coach for five seasons before committing himself full-time to the NVA office following the I980 campaign. 
Astrid Hotvedt -Since becom­ing coordinator of women's ath­letics at Notre Dame in I974, just two years after the University began admitting women, Hotvedt has over­seen the program's growth from in­fancy to puberty. Assuming things continue on their present course, maturity is just around the corner. A I969 Eastern Michigan graduate, Hotvedt received her. master's de­gree from EMU in I972. She then served as women's gymnastics coach at Illinois before coming to Notre Dame. 
Sharon Petro -The chairman of the pysical education department is always one of the first faces an incoming freshman sees at Notre Dame, since phys ed is a required part of the freshman curriculum (excepting ROTC students). Petro was appointed to her present posi­tion just this summer, but she cer­tainly is no stranger to the Notre Dame community. like Hotvedt, she also did graduate work at EMU, ear­ning her master's in 1976. Beginning · her fifth year at Notre Dame, Petro served as women's tennis coach 
during the 1977 and '78 seasons before deciding to devote herself full-time to her basketball coaching duties. She had been serving double duty for two years. After the basket­ball team was elevated to Division I status, Petro left the ACC and returned to the Courtney Courts to coach tennis once again. 
Erin Murphy -In her second year at Saint Mary's, Murphy will serve as director of athletics and recreation, replacingJerry Dallessio who resigned in May to serve as full­time basketball coach. A graduate of Lewis University In Jolliet, Ill., she has served as assistant director of athletics and recreation and vol­
eyball coach for SMC since I979. Along with supervision of the col­lege's intramural, club and varsity programs, Murphy will continue her 

Steve Orsini 

volleyball coaching duties. Murphy 
plans "to refine and perfect the 
programs that we have now at all 
three levels. I want the community 
to take advantage ofthe facilities and 
programs we have available," and 
wants SMC's Angela Athletic Facility 
to be used for recreation and leisure 
as well as competitive sports. 
Timothy J. Dillon -With degrees from Slippery Rock State 'College, and Eastern Kentucky Uoi-
See FACES, page 21 


Col. john Stephens 

Astrid Hotvedt RogerValdtsern 


Sharon Petro 


Catch the Fighting Irish 'llte_--Clbseoet 
Don't miss out on all the actionI 
Subscribe to The Obseroer. Published Monday through Friday during the academic year, The Obseroer wtll inform you ofcmnpus and local events, entertain you with editorials and features, and satisfyyou with the latest athletic news. 
just/ttl out the subscription form below and matl tt, with remit­tance, andyou can have The Observer delivered to your homl'. 
The Observer 
Make check payable to: P.O. Box Q 
and mail to: Notre Dame, IN 465C)6 
Name ...................................................................................................................... . 
Address .................................................................................................................. . 
• :Jt\' ................................................Statt.~ .............................. !Zip ...................... .. 
[Jl'ilCiot.cl! is ;, 1•, ior otk .,emester 0 Er.,:lo,-~d i• S2'> for one year 


-----------------~-·---------­
The Observer Saturday, August 22, 1981 -page 18 
continuedfrom page 22 
And oh, how we dreaded going home to the taunts and jeers ofhigh school classmates. Notre Dame -ha! They couldn't even beat Mississippi! 
Even though these past four years perhaps have been unparalleled in Notre Dame sports lore, there were other similiar moments. Such as in 1979, when the Notre Dame football team was humiliated by Tennessee and Clemson on back-to-back weekends. Or last spring. when a pumped-up Missouri squad stunned an over­confident Irish basketball team. 
The thoughts were the same as we shouted at our televisions. 
Those Idiots, those jerks!How could they? How dare they? 
Things are going to be a little bit different now. As we scatter across the country, starting new jobs, entering 
new schools, we'll no longer have roommates and sec­tionmates to share our frustrations. Gerry Faust may be able to walk on water, but the first time one of his team takes a dive, look out. Co-workers 
r-------------------------,
DISCOVER A 
MOST UNUSUAL STORE 
QUAU/'YlliJ.WY-TO-FINISH PURNOUilE 
oak
bar stools 
ramzn stereo units pine desks maple 
walnutbenches and others 

I NA1URALLy WOOD 1 256 13oo . 
L__.J!!!!'!!_C:.2!!!f.zJ!!.?!!P!!g_f~!.:__.J 
CUSTOM 

THE ROAD TO A COLLEGE DEGREE IS EXPENSIVE 
AIRFORCE ROTC CANPAVE THE WAY 
There are a lot of scary stories about the cost of col­lege education these days. Many high school students aren't planning to attend college because they don't have the money. BUT WAIT! Air Force ROTC can help. With our scholarship programs, we will pay for your college tuition, books, along with certain fees AND pay you $100 per month for living expenses. 
After you receive your degre.,e you'll be eligible for a commission as an Air Force officer. If you can qualify,
I-
Air Force ROTC can mean a college degree and a brighter future for you. Find out more. For your country and yourself, make Air Force ROTC a part of your plans. Contact: 
Capt. Gottrich, Notre Dame ROTC Building 
283-6635 for more information .)~
BOTC 
Gateway to a great way of life. 
~~~-----·.1 ~. 
;;.------·-· 

--------------------~~ 
...Memories 
and fellow students will have a field day at Notre Dame's 
expense. It won't make a bit ofdifference ifthe tormen­
tors graduated from Northwestern, w_here football is a 
non-contact sport, or from Southern Cal, where 
academics are optional. Everybody has two favorite 
teams -theirs and whoever is playing Notre Dame. • 
For four years, all that talk about Notre Dame being a 
family sounded so Pollyanna, so hokey. But now, it 
begins to make sense. 
Sitting in a cinderblock cell on the North Quad, ran­
ting and raving at an inanimate television screen isn't 
much different from belittling your kid brot)J.er in that 
condescending tone. And what's so bad about that? 
But just let somebody else try. 
Those Idiots, those jerks! How could they? How dare they? 
Once in a whi\e, maybe so. But remember, they're our idiots; they're our jerks. And more often than not, it will be the Alabama fans or the Virginia fans, crying in disbelief 
Those Idiots, those jerks!How could they? How dare they? 


I 
I 
1 
1 
1
I 
II 
I 
didn't have bugs in it." 
1 
hourly cost. Dedicated full­time staff. 
• 
Complete TEST-n-TAPE""facilities for review of class lessons and supplementary materials. 

• 
Classes taught by skilled instructors. 



PLEASE VISIT US AT THE ACC RM C131 AUG 25-28 FOR A NO-OBLIGATION DEMONSTR.A.TION SEE WHY THERE IS A DIFFERENCE 
~ ~-+:..~nA .• 11· 
1 
~~~­
ICIIPUIN 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 

Commissioner racked 
Few-happy w-ith~ new formula 
By ALEX SACHARE 
APSports Writer 
"In this unusual season," said Baseball Commissioner Bowie Kuhn, "anything you do has imper­fections." Or as player union head Marvin Miller put it, "Einstein him­self couldn't devise .a system that 
It hasn't taken long for the imper­fections and bugs in the revised split-season playoff formula to surface. The four teams which were in second place in their respective divisions at the time the 50-day players strike began, none more than two games off the pace, were outraged to learn that their first-half efforts will mean absolutely nothing 

• 
Opportunity to make up missed lessons. 


• 
Voluminous home-study materials constantly updated by research­ers expert in their field. 

• 
Opportumty to transfer to and 



· . continue study a! any of our ovP.r 85 centers. 
232-2366 
For Information AboL.t Other Centers Outside NY ~tate 
CALL TOLL FREE: 800-223-178~ 

when it comes time to determine who qualifies for postseason play. 
"It's the most unjust, irrational concept ever perpetrated in baseball," declared St. Louis Car­dinals executive joe McDonald, whose club was a game-and-a-half behind Philadelphia in the National League East on)une 12, the day the strike began. "To go into a season with one thought, to win your divi­sion, and then change in mid-season is unthinkable." 
But for some teams, finishing second in the second half of the season is almost as good as finishing first. Under the new plan, ifthe same team wins both halves of a division race its opponent in the'playoffil will be the team with the second-best 

·record in the second half · not the team with the second-best record overall, as the original plan called for. Under that first idea, it was pos­sible for a team to improve its chances at a playoff berth by losing games, which calsed questions ofin­tegrity. 
It is possible under the new sys­tem, however, that a first-half winner can determine its opponent in the divisional playoffil. If; for in­stance, the Los Angeles Dodgers, champions of the National League West for the first half, have clinched the second-half flag as well They would then play the runner-up in the second hal! 
The Dodgers finish the season against Houston and, if that's who they would prefer to meet in the playoffs and the Astros have a shot at second place for the second half, Los Angeles could lose games to Hous­ton in order to ensure playing the Astros in the divisional playoffs. 
The Dodgers -or any first-half winner -also could determine their divisional playoff rival even if they aren't going to win the second por­tion of the split season. Again, if Los Angeles prefers to meet Houston in that postseason series -and the Astros are in a race for the second­half flag. with the Dodgers eliminated -the Dodgers might lose games to Houston in order to get the Astros into the playoffs. 
A spokesman for the commis­sioner's office said that "the pos­sibility of one team's performance affecif}g another team making the 
See BASEBALL, page 19 

/ 
ROCCOS  
men's and women's hairstyling at comfortable prices 531 N. Michigan 233-4957  




I • 
' 
., 

The Observer Saturday, August 22, 1981 -page 19 
...Baseball 

continuedfrom page 18 
postseason existed in previous seasons. To suggest a team would lose games to try to determine its playoffopponent is absurd. Who's to say a team can predict it can do bet· ter against one team than another? In a short five·~otamt· '<t·rit·s like this, any 
team can beat another. "Besides, they've never had a problem in the minors like this and they've used the split season there. "Major League Rule 21 states that a team has to gi vt· its best efforts to '1\ m or fat.·e perao~anent suspension. It's not likely a team would do any· thing to test it." All of this is little consolation for the teams which firushed .~enmd in the first halfofthe sc:ason, who were lt:ft wondning why their l'ffort was meaninglt:ss while second-half runners-up may bl..' rewarded with playoff berths. "I don't like it. It makes the first half meaninyless except for tht• first­place tt·ams," said Jon Matlack, player representative of the Texas Rangers, who finished a game-and-a­
halfbehind Oakland in the American League West even though they ac­tually lost one less game. "Oh well, it makes it more interesting to make up the rules as you go along." 
"Teams that play well all year shouldn't be penalized," said Texas teammate Doc Medich, noting that it was possible for the team with the best winning percentage over the 
entire  season  not  to make  the  
playoffs.  
11/t  makes  the  first  

half meaningless, ex­ceptfor thefirst place teams." 
"This just goes to show how much thinking was done on the subject ­namely, none," said Orioles outfiel­der John Lowenstein. "It is hard to believe that the big business of major league baseball is being run by the kind ofgreat minds that came up 

Hapless Bears ~to face· Bengals tonight 
CHICAGO (AP)-The Cincinnati 
Hengals will be aiming for a third 
straight National Football League ex­
hibition victory tonight_ when they 
takt· on the winless Chicago Hears bcfort· 60,000 in Soldier Field. 
l 

The Bengals defeated Tampa Bay, 24-1 7 and Detroit, .30-20, but Coach Forrt·st Gregg was not leased with tht• way the Bengals played against the l.ions. 
"Sloppy ball game," was Gregg's deS{·ription of the victory. "I'm just happy we won. We made a lot of foolish errors but came up with the turnovt.·rs that hclpt.·d us, especially Ross Browner's fumble recovery in the end zone. We must start eliminating mistakes." 
While Gregg is worried about mistakes, Bear Coach Neill Armstrong is fighting pressure from fans and local media hungry for a vic­tory. 
"We'd like to be winning these games, but the idea is to get our­selves ready for the opener," said Armstrong, whose Bt.·ars have fallen to tht• New York Giants 23-7 and the Kansas City Chiefli 13-0. 
Armstrong insists that if Walter 
Payton, used so sparingly that he has 
carried only a total ofseven times In two games, had been playing, the result In Kansas City might have been turned around. 
"We had the ball on the one-yard line twice and didn't score," said Armstrong. "That's our fault. But I guarantee, if Roland Harper and Wal­ter Payton were in the game at those times we would have gotten the ball into the end zone and probably won the game." 
How much Payton will play against Cincinnati has not been determined, but Vince Evans again will start at quarterback, and if Armstrong goes to a second quarter­back, it probably will be Bob Avel­lini, who has yet to see action this SCa.'i<>n. 
Gregg will start Ken Anderson and quarterback and follow with Jack Thompson and probably Turk Schonert. Anderson and Thompson have seen equal duty in two games. 
Each has 14 completions and two touchdowns with nary an intercep­tion. ' 
The Bengals are hoping to get wide receiver Isaac Curtis into ac­tion. Curtis ha.~ yet to play this season because of a pulled hamstr­ing. 
with this." 
"This new plan does a number on every team that played consistent baseball in the first half," said Doug DeCinces, the American League player rep and third baseman for the Baltimore Orioles, who lost out to New York by two games in first half ofthe AL east. 
"As the architect of the split 
season and the leader in promoting 
this recent decision, the commis­
sioner must take full responsibility," 
said Wagner. "It was a situation that 
required surgery and was treated 
with bandaids. The change is simply 
an easy way out and a white-wash by 
baeball's leadership." 
Kuhn, meanwhile, conceded that 
the revised plan "still has warts, but 
no integrity warts." He said the pos­
sibility ofgiving a bye to winners of 
both sections was considered and 
then rejected because this would 
keep a team out of action for eight 
days. It would also create uncer­
tainty about how many games would 
be played on what days, which is bad 
for television. 
The current schedule calls for the 
best-of-five intra-divisional playoffs 
to begin Oct. 6, with the best-of-five 
league championship series starting 
Oct. 13 and the best-of-seven World 
Series opening Oct. 20. Even with­
out postponements because of bad 
weather, the seventh game of the 
World Series would be played Oct. 
28. 
Who is to blame for the confu­sion? According to Cincinnati Reds President Dick Wagner, whose team was only one-half game behind the Los Angeles Dodgers in the NL West on june 12, the blame lies squarely with Kuhn. 
SENIORS!!! 
It's not too late to sign up for trip to ND-Miami game over Thanksgiving. Look for details at Registration on Monday and in future issues ofThe Observer 
I 
41Xlam 51Xlam 71Xl am 'HXlam II IXlam 
FREE PARKIIWI 
LEAVE  
MICHIANA  
REGIONAL  
AIRPORT  
415am  4:l0am  5·1Xlam  
51!'> am  5:l0am  54.~ a.m  
715 am  7:10am  745 am  
<J !Sam  '!:lOam  'l·45am  
1115am  ll :lOam  114!'>am  
I :!Opm  145pm  
:l30pm  :l4!'>pm  
5:30p.m  54c> pm  



Even though the baseball players have returned to the field after the strike, recentattendancefigures have indicated that baseballhtlS notyet returned to its feet. ( AP) 

Join the Fighting liish .... 

·o'Hare 
H:IKl am !(J:l() am 1230pm 2:lOpm 4:!0pm 71Klpm H:!Opm 

HIKI p m 
lO·IKJ p.m 

CAll (219) 255-3068 FOR RESERVATIONS 
$20 
one 
way 
'S38 
ROUND TRIP 


-~ -~~ ~ -~~---~-~

r------------­
-
The Observer Saturday, August 22, 1981 -page 20 

losing by scores of 12-0 and 14-0. White, Steve 4 LB 6-0 205 Mountlake Terrace, WA Williams, Larry 75 OL 6-6 240 Santa Ana, CA 
FRESHMEN 

IheDbseD!er -/ 
COMING THISFAU 

Positions available as: 
•REPORTERS • DELIVERY eDESIGN STAFF e SPORTS 
Jam Productions Present 
Selling 
E 

be~e\tf Uork0ime 0011 onca 

You, or your organization, make money, your friends save money when you sell The New York Times at a special student/faculty discount. (,.ate of35' The Times helps you with special promotion material and sales training. 

MICHAELSTANLEYBAND 
Sunday, Aug. 30, 1981 7:30 PM For full details, call NOTRE· DAME AC.C. (South Be The New York Times College Service 

Special Guest 

I. Collect ... (312) 229-1650 
DEF

t (Outside of Illinois 1-800-621-0159) 
Saturday, A!JQ. 29 For Subicnption information, waich the Obseroer MORRIS 
CIVIC 
Good seats still'available for the Doobie Brothers/Michael Stanley: $12.50 reserved seats at River City Records (50970 U.S. 31 North &4626 Western Avenue) and ACC Box Office. 
Ouy Osbourne tickets: $9.50 reserved seats and on sale at River City Records (50970 U.S. 31 North & 4626 Western 

'-l 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--~-------------------------, 
The Observer Saturday, August 22, 1981'......, ~ge it 
Chargers rally 
San Diego dumps L.A., 33-29 
SAN DIEGO (AP) -San Diego defensive back Wyatt Henderson scored on a 34-yard pass intercep­tion play for the go-ahead touch­down as the Chargers erupted in the second halfto defeat the Los Angeles Rams 33-29 in a nationally-televised · National Football League exhibition last night. 
Henderson put the Chargers up 26-20 late In the third quarter after picking off a pass from Ram backup quarterback Bob Lee. 
Trailing 20-'5 late In the second quarter, the Chargers' rally was led by second-year quarterback Ed Lut­her, who threw for two touchdowns In the second half, Including a '56­yard scoring pass to rookie running backjames Brooks. 
Earlier, kick return fumbles by Henderson and Brooks, the Char­gers' No.I draft choice from Auburn, led to 1 0 points by the Rams, now 1-2 In the preseason. 
'11te Chargers, 2-1, came alive defensively In the second half; sack­ing Lee and rookie quarterback Jeff Kemp a total of five times. 
Tralllng 20-12 at halftime, San Diego quickly capitalized on a one­yard punt by the Rams' Frank Corral. 
• • .Faces 
continued .from page 17 
verslty and experience as a Division I gymnastics coach at EKU, Dillon views athletics "as a part of educa­tion." The new assistant director of athletics and recreation for SMC succeeds Erin Murphy, now direc­tor. Dillon will work to "get some unity through the whole community and get the program to a point where It's recognized by Saint Mary's College as a useful part ofthe college curriculum." 
ErlnMurpby 
Luther then tossed a 15-yard touch­Rams' starting quarterback Pat down pass to running back John Haden hit 9-of-18 passes for 99 yards Cappelletti, another former Ram. and two touchdowns, with one in­
• terception, aU In the first half as theAfter Brooks made it 33-20 early Rams built their early lead. 
In the fourth period, Kemp con­nected on a 63-yard pass play to San Diego starting quarterback Willie Miller. Following penalties Dan Fouts connected on 13-of-25 and sacks, the Rams had to settle for passes for 204 yards, one touch­a 47-yard field goal by Todd Peter­down and one Interception -playing son with 10:53 remaining In the the entire first half and the first few game. minutes ofthe third period. 
The Rams then tackled punter)elf Gossett at the San Diego 22 late In The Rams raced to their early 20-5 the game, and It was followed by a lead by turning three San Diego tur­20-yard scoring pass from Kemp to novers into I 7 points. wide receiver Preston Dennard. 
NURSES 
Enjoy Your Job and Spare Titre Too! ! 
SALARY 
Starts $16,700-$22,000 depending on 
experience increasing annually to 
$26,006 in four years. 
QUALIFICATIONS 
BSN degree or 3-year diploma program 
with 1-year related w:::>rk experience. 
Recent or future grads looking for 
first job (under age 35) are encour­
aCJed to apply. 
BENEFITS 
Club benefits including 18 hole-golf 
courses, swimming pools, hand ball, 
racquetball, tennis, track, beaches, 
sailing, rrountain climbing, rafting, 
wind surfing, and flying clubs. Re­
duced air fares and reduced ticket 
prices to cultural activities such 
as opera, symphony, theatre, and 
ballet. Access to lighthouse on the 
coast of Maine and a private luxury 
resort hotel on Waikiki Beach. Full 
rredical, dental, unlimited sick leave, 
30 days annual paid vacation, tx:>St 
grad educational programs and retire­ffi2l1t in 2 0 years! ! 
JOB DESCRIPTION Resp:msible for total care of patients, rrenagerrent and supervision of wards, supervision and instruction of staff personnel. 
LCCATION ~ On l::oth coasts and the Gulf of M3}Q~co-­We pay relocation expenses. ~ 
For rrore inforn:ation or for an ~t..ca­tion, call 1-800-382-9404, ext. 6199 and ask for Kathy Scanlon or send resume to: 
M2dical Deparbnent // 575 N. Pennsylvania, ~46
IndianafY')lis# 


The freshman receivers have shown much improvement during the recent summerfootball practices. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
/,

MED SCHOLARSHIPS 
QUALIFICATI~~ 
Be accepted for the next entering class or currently enrolled in an approved rredical or osteopathic school; be a citi­zen of the U. S. ; be of good rroral char­acter and physically qualified for a Navy 
~conmission; at least 19 and under 40 utx=>n ~aduation · 
, BFNFE'I'IS: Full tuition and all authorized fees; reim­bursement for books and supplies that are required; 45 days active duty each year at a Naval Facility "''here tx=>Ssible; $530.00 monthly stipend while not on active duty. (will increase 1 July 1982) 
OBLIGATIONS: 'Ib complete :rredical or osteopathic school as a member of the program; one year active service as a :rredical officer in the Navy for each year of participation BUT in no 
·case less than three years active service 
Graduate Medical Education available in 
most specialities.
. 

For additional inforn:ation or for an application, contact: Kathy Scanlon or Jerry St.John at 1-800-382-9404, eht. 6183 or 6199 or write to: 

Medical Departrrent 



I 
-I 


fhe Observer Saturday, August 22, 1981 -page 22 
ND agrees 
CFA approves NBC contract 
ATLANTA (AP) -The rift over "Any sanctions would be totally 

proves the TV contract Sept. 10. control oftelevision rights between up to the Committee on Infrac­
Davison said the meeting wasthe College Football Association and tions," said David Cawood, public closed to the news media so mem­the National Collegiate Athletic As­relations director of the NCAA. "In bers could have an "absolutely freesociation widened yesterday when cases where a member deliberately and uninhibited exchange of In­the CFA gave its initial approval to a violates a rule, there could be a wide formation."
contract with NBC. variety of penalties but it probably 
Arthur A. Watson, president of
The 61-member CFA cast a split would be probation in all sports." 
NBC sports, said,"We are extremelyvote on the issue and refused to an­Cawood said he did not anticipate pleased that the CFA has ratified thenounce the total or release a list of four-year television contract withhow each school voted. 

Notre Dame athletic direc­
NBC Sports. We now look forwardIt was learned from various 

tor Gene Corrlgatt 
to moving ahead and finalizing many 

sources within the CFA that the vote represente<t the University at 
of the details with the <:FA by Sept. 

was 33 for, 20 against, with five yesterday's CFA meeting in 10." abstentions and three other schools Atlanta. Father Edmund P. 
"Thus, together we can pursuenot voting because their credentials 

Joyce, Chairman of Notre our common goal ofrevitalizing and were not in order. Dame's Faculty.Board in Con­enhancing college football's "The board decided we would not 
trolofAthleticsandone ofthe popularity by implementing a well announce how any school voted," foundingfathers ofthe CFA, is conceived television schedulingsaid Dt. Fred C. Davison, president 

out of the country. The Ob­concept featuring prime time ex­of the CFA and the University of 
server learned that, as ex· posure," Watson said 1n a preparedGeorgia. "That will become public pected, Corrigan was one of statement. 

knowledge on Sept. 1 0." 
the 33 who voted to ratify the The CFA membership includes 17 
Each CFA school has until Sept. 10 CFA package with NBC. Smce independents and five conferences 

to reconsider its vote, deciding the meeting ran much longer -the Atlantic Coast, Big Eight, whether to participate in the S180 than scheduled, Corrigan Southeastern, Southwest and W es­million TV contract offered by NBC missed his ftight back to * tern Athletic. 
or opt for a S263 ·rr.illion NCAA South Bend, and was un­The CFA, formed 1n 1977, in­package worked out with ABC and awflable for comment We cludes most of the traditional major CBS. Both plans cover the four foot­
football powers such as Oklahoma,
last.~ 

ball seasons beginning 1n 1982. Nebraska, Alabama, Notre Dame, The NCAA has threatened to sanc­any final action by the NCAA until Penn State and Pittsburgh, but does 
tion any member that goes along after the 1981 football season, but not include the Pacific-1 0 and Big with the CFA television plan and he said there could be action before Ten conferences with teams such as such action could result 1n a lawsuit the NCAA basketball tournament Southern California, UCLA, Ohio 
between the two parties. , next March if the CFA ultimately ap-State and Michigan. 
ND, you're not so bad 
EDUOR'SNOTE: Thefollowing column appeared In tbeMay 15, 1981 graduation Issue ofThe Observer. It Is reprinted here with tbe hope of giving Incoming freshmen a more realistic view oftheirFighting Irish. 
Go back, if you will, almost four years. Go back to a hot, sunny September afternoon. Back to a time when Emil still was a horrifying thought and most of today's 


business majors were 1n either engineeringor pre-med. There isn't much use <lwelllng on such a sore subject, 
When we entered as freshmen, we were greeted by one that even the space offour years has done little to the best football team in the country. That's what the heal. Ole Miss stunned an overconfident Irish team, 20­upperclassmen said; that's what our parents said Even 13, and the campus rocked with outrage. the national magazines were saying it. We could hardly "Dump Devine" banners hung from every dorm, and wait for our first home game as a member ofthe revered Rusty Usch became a four-letter word. As the frustrated Notre Dame student body. students stared 1n disbeliefat television screens, watch­
With the first three games on the road, though, we ing the final seconds tick off, enough obscenities flew wouldn't have much choice. The opener was in Pitts­through the air to curl Fr. Hesburgh's hair, had he been burgh, against the defending national champions. The on campus to hear them. 
Panthers had embarrassed Notre Dame a year ago, so Those Idiots, those jerks! How could they? How dare we heard quite a bit of"We owe you one." they? 
It wasn't pretty, but the Irish did it. Senior defensive Yet the very next week, those idiots dared again. On­end Willie Fry took things Into his own hands and out of ly a joe Montana miracle pushed those jerks past Pitt star quarterback Matt Cavanaugh's by sacking Purdue and on toward a national championship. · Cavanaugh and breaking his wrist. With Cavanaugh out Many of us sat in our dorm rooms, discussing at 
ofthe lineup, the Irish sputtered to a 19-9 wln. length the relative shortcomings of Dan Devine and 
just first game jitters, everybody said. Don't worry, Rusty Usch, and finally wondering -just what in the Mississippi was next. The Rebels wouldn't even be a hell was wron~t? good match for Saint Mary's. 
See MEMORIES, page 18
Ouch. 



By The Associated Press 
Is the Pack really back? 
Well, the spirit is. The Green Bay Packers, who have had only one win­ning season since 1972 ( 8-7-1 and a second-place finish in '78) and managed only 12 points 1n five win­less exhibitions a year ago, are making believers of themselves this 
year. 
"We're pleased with the start," Coach Bart Starr said of the Packers' victories, 21-1 7 over Dallas and 34­14 over Oakland. "But we're under no illusions. This is the preseason, and those games don't count. We have, though, renewed confidence we felt our team had." 
Tonight the Packers visit Denver to play the team which routed them 38-0 a year ago -and a beating which prompted several of the Broncos to call Green Bay the worst team they had ever seen. 
"Devastating is a pretty good word," Starr said of that game. "We played awful, and Denver played great." 
Having seen the Cowboys this year, the Packers should have no trouble recognizing the Denver of­fense; the Broncos' new head coach is Dan Reeves, formerly Tom Landry's assistant ir Dallas. 
Also tonight it's Miami at Detroit, Buffalo at Cleveland, Cincinnati at Chicago, Houston at Tampa Bay, the New York jets at the New York Giants, Washington at Baltimore, St. Louis at Kansas City, Seattle at San Francisco, Pittsburgh at Dallas and Atlanta at Minnesota. Tomorrow's games are New Orleans vs. Philadel­phia at Syracuse, N.Y., and Oakland at New England 
like the Packers, the Dolphins are 2-0 in the preseason, thanks in large degree to third-year fullback Woody Bennett and rookie tailback Andra Franklin. In a 20-6 victory over the Minnesota Vikings, the Dolphins rushed for 203 yards and, 1n last week's 24-14 triumph over the Broncos, for 168. 
"We've got high hopes that if we can get a running game going, we can improve ourselves," Miami Coach Don Shula said. 
The lions, too, are hoping to put together a good ground game. "We're running the ball pretty weU," said Coach Monte Clark. "Fumbles, though, are killing us. We just haven't been consisent." 
The Chicago Bears take an 0-2 record -including a 13-0 loss to Kansas City last weekend -into their game with Cincinnati, a statis­tic which doesn't dismay Coach Neill Armstrong. 
"We'd like to be winning these games, but the idea is to get our­selves ready for the opener," he said. "It's evident from the first two weeks ofpreseason games that we're counting a lot on rookies and second-year guys this season. 
Reds, Dodgers post shut-outs 
joe Nolan drove home both runs and Mario Soto tossed a fqur-hitter as the Cincinnati Reds extended their winning streak to four games by defeating the New York Mets, 2-0 last night. Also, Larry Bowa's two­out, seventh-inning single scored two runs that enabled the Philadel­phia Phillies to beat the Houston Astros, 5-4 and snap a four-game losing streak. Meanwhile, Steve Gar­vey hit a two-run homer in the first innng, and left-bander jerry Reuss (7-3) baftled St.Louis on four hits as the Los Angeles Dodgers pinned a 4­0 shutout on the Cardinals. Also 1n the National League, pinch-hitter jason Thompson doubled home the winning run and jim Bibby notched the victory as the Pittsburgh Pirates beat the struggling San Diego Padres 3-2 to sweep a doubleheader. 

------------------------------·-­
The~============~==============~-= 
Saturday, August 22, 1981 -page 23
Weekend 

Molarity 
HEY 'FROjH,I-lDW PO YDU LIKE A.VT~E DAME SO FJ\R ? ? 
.Ir'5 GREAT Ir CAN'f ~AIT UNTIL 11-i£ Fc0f64.LL SEA~ 5TARP-5,..:rVE:"
G!ar -nc.xr:.r5 !! 
Simon 


/C !I BET YCV 1-!4V~ 
ALL THE 'PEP 
TOD /I 
iiHS I~ illE. tHALLEIIIG.E; YOl.\f\ C.OAI.. IS TO ~Ill> V.O.LUE!., 1:-~,.A\'!LISH IDEALS, AC~ I EVE. 
VeRu;.I'T\OtJ · · . TO FIN() Yoi.IR SELF ! IT 111100 'T iif. EASY -nus 's c.aLLEc;.E .Vaw-
1\EAL 11'1-~o MORE. FUN I'INI) CrAIIIE !>. ')b\L'RE AN AI)ULT Now, wE'RE. CLliiioll& 1~E ~TRINI>.S. 
\ 
'~ 
~(·..)')~ 
~~~ 


The Daily Crossword 
1980 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rlghls Reserved 
Michael Molinelli 
:;:r:'LL 5EI.-L YDU J-..1'{ SEASON 'Ttl£ PEP RALLIES AR£ HALF 
YOU PDN'T HAVE ANY? WHY 

PA?S 1'D lljE PEP RALLJE"S OF 1J.IE WEEKE:'Nl>. LI6T'£N ... 
FoR 6AY.., 3t /0? TELL Yt:VWHAT... r DON'T' FEEL LIXE' 5WD\TIN~ TDD r1LIC.H IH/b SEME:6T£R ... 
60 :I'LL PDYtllJ A FAVOR··• 

Garry Trudeau 
THAT I//OU/.1) E»'LAIN NO KJWING? 
POI.ITlCAL {)=Ffet:? 

ALL 7H& CAMCM;; 
0//751/:Je.
I 

I OH, NO.. 
Jeb Cashin oorrt? mo rv ~ 
WELW'\E 


JIIST R£.to\ltl'll!oER 1 '01\01>
TO N. 0, YOU GOT ~ 

6£.\.0w fl :1. 0 M>l> You. 
DAYS UNTIL THE R'C.AL 

C~N ~~~S n1~ 01\I~TI'IA~ 
~ 

22 Sword 
24 Lewis's Elmer 26 Take as 
one's own 27 Gay­28 Wide­
(Western 
vistas) 
30 Gape 
31 Cleric 
33 Ms.Jong 
34 Composition for nine 
36 Between Mex.and Can. 
37 Coffee holder 
41 Mixtures 
43 Actor Bond 
46 Tropical mammals 48 Cereal 50 Cup: Fr. 52 Stage line 53 Marble piece 
54 Song theme 
55 Practice boxing 56 Nimbus 58 Shakespear· 
ean verb 59 Cosmonaut's first name 
60 Word with child or ladder 
63 Bounder 
Campus 
SATURDAY,AUGUST22 
•I 
p.m. -campus tours, departing from the circle. 

•1-3 
p.m.-smc study abroad programs, meetings with students and faculty, I p.m. ireland, 2 p.m. rome, little theatre, moreau. 

•2-4 
p.m. -nd frosh exams, cushing engineering hall. 

•3-3:30 
p.m. -smc academic briefing, for all new students, mary ann rowan and william hickey, o'laughlln aud. 

•3:30-4 
p.m. -smc student affairs brief, for all new students, kathleen rice, thomas reid, o'laughlin aud. 

•5: 
15 p.m. -smc orientation m?.ss, lemans court, rain: o'laughlln aud. 

•5:30-6:30 
p.m. -nd frosh dinner, south dining 


hall. · •6:30-7:30p.m. -smc picnic, dining hall green. 
•7:30 
p.m. -welcome ceremony, for frosh and their parents, athletic and convocation center. 

•8 
p.m. -smc parents' welcome, for students and parents, john m. duggan, smc president, angela ab­Ietic facility. 

•9:
15 p.m. -movie, hello dolly, carroll hall, smc. 


SUNDAY, AUGUST 23 
•8 
and IO a.m.-smc mass, church ofloreuo. 

•8:30 
a.m. -nd academic orientation, freshmen required to attend, athletic and convocation <;en­ter. 

•9:30-I 
0:30 a.m. -frosh breakfast-reception, monogram room, ace. 

• 
11 a.m. -welcome mass, for nd frosh and their parents, athletic and convocation center. 

•I2-I2:45 
p.m. -nd picnic lunch, informal lunch­eon for frosh and their parents, with nd administra­tion and fo~culty, ace. 

•I2:45-1 
:45 p.m. -intro to student activities through prformances by nd marching band and glee club, presentation by student body president, ace. 

•2 
p.m. -volunteer service program, orientation for nd freshmen, room b·278, biology aud, galvin. 

•2 
p.m.-rotc presentation, for nd frosh and their parents, ace. 

•2:30 
p.m. -nd foreign study program, orienta­tion for frosh, angers-room 204 O'shaughnessy, innsbruck-room I22 hayes-healy, ireland-room 222 ha}'eS healy, mexico-room 120 hayes-healy, rome-room 22I hayes-healy, japan and taiwan­room 124 hayes-healy. 

• 
3 p.m. -mixer, for mexican-american frosh and their parents, memorial library lounge. 

• 
3 p.m. -orientation, and reception for parents of black freshmen, donor's room, morris inn. 

•7 
p.m. -orientation, for frosh women, memorial library aud. 

•9 
p.m. -dance, for nd and smc frosh, nd ace, sponsored by nd student government. 


MONDAY, AUGUST 24 , 
•8:30 
a.m. -nd registration, frosh: stepan until 2 p.m., all other students, at the ace until 3 p.m. 

•1
0:30 a.m.-1: I 5 -provost's welcome, for new nd faculty, cce. 

•8:30 
a.m.-4:30 -smc registration, for all stu­dents, lemans basement. 

•8:30 
a.m.-noon -smc frosh schedule change, for students whose last names begin with a-k, 121 lemans. · 

•1-4 
p.in. -smc frosh schedule change, for stu­dents whose last names begin with 1-z, 121lemans. 

•2-4 
p.m. -smc open house, for big/little sisters, lemans court; rain: stapleton lounge. 

•9:30-11:30 
p.m. -square dance and bon fire, mccandless parking lot; rain: angela athletic facility. 


TUESDAY, AUGUST 25 
•7 
and 10 p.m. -tllm, fame, engineering aud, sponsored by student union, U. 

•8 
p.m. -concert, open air concert, north quad, sponsored b.y student union social commission. 


WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 26 
•8 
a.m.-5 p.m. -sales and rentals, stepan center mall. 

•7 
and 10 p.m. -film, fame, engineering aud, sponsored by student union, U. 



FUtJ 51AR'T:'l,SOwARIV\ 
ACROSS 1 Chatter 5 Pal of Fran or Stan 
10 Spring 
14 Emanation 
29 Cleo's killer 32 Hub of the 
Ruhr 35 Dips bait lightly 
::-;;--r.::--,::-;;-"'T.'>,...-, 15 Noddies 36 Faithless 64 State 16 Actor 38-and con firmly Cronyn 39 Mine finds 65 Wooden bowl 17 Realty 40 Part of a contents ':"::""+--i-+--i sign flight 66 Raison d'­19 "Miss­41 Chief 67 Mrs. Truman --+-~1--+----1 regrets" 42 Write 68 Wear away 20 Kindof 43 Rabbit area 69 Send 
drum 44 Behold: Lat. 21 Follower 45 Seed part DOWN 23 Auld­47 Proposal 1 Relax in 
Syne reply the sun on:-+--+-----l 25 Impel to 48 Animal cry 2 Velezof action 49 Role old movies• --+-~..._~ 26 "-lovely 51 O'Hara's. 3 Smell-
as a tree" mansion 4 Blunt 5 Many times 6 Game of 
chance 7 Fa lana of song 8 "-Three Lives" 9 Baltic 
people 10 Song part 11 "Star Wars" 
setting 12 "-the ~~~BH~~~~~~~~I Moodfor 
Love" 13 In case 18 Jack-of 
...,.,====--===~~i!o!l films 
=Ihe=ObseLVer=-=-= 

DELIVERY DRIVERS NEEDED 
•CALL 
TOM AT 8661 •DRIVER 'S LICENSE 

•3 
HOURS ON WEEKDAYS • PAID POSITION 





---~ -­
-~--~ ----~-------~--­
-------------~----~~---­
...._ 
f 
SRQrts

I I 
I 
Keeping busy 

~ 
~­
Freshmen adjusting well 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
Someone forgot to tell this group offreshmen that adjusting to college life was supposed to be rough. 
Ifleaving home and beingon your own for the first time ought to be a 
lonely  experience,  you'd  better  
remind  the  newest  Notre  Dame  
football players of that.  

Coach Gerry Faust's 27 recruits, a group that includes 13 all-Americans and often has been called the best high schools could offer in 1981, seem as comfortable on ;ampus as the head man himself. 
-\.nd they appear even more at home with each other. 
"After the first two days, I knew all the other freshman players' names," relates center Tom Doerger (Cincinnati, Ohio). "I was amazed at how friendly everyone was." 
Uneman Jay Underwood agrees. "The guys have become so much closer than I expected after such a short time," says the Newport News, Va, native. "There's a real com­munity and family atmosphere al­
ready." 
Yet it's easy to see how such comaraderie evolved Housed to­gether on Flanner's fourth floor for the past 10 days, the newcomers have spent nearly every waking minute with each other. They were welcomed by the Michiana fans at a rally at Marian High School one night, while the quarterback club took them to a nearby lake for a cookout the next. And to hear some of them talk about how busy and regimented their days at "boot camp" are, it isn't surprising that homesicknesses hasn't had a chance to make its presence known. 
"It'll probably hit me the first time it snows," smiles highly-touted back Van Pearcy ofAndrews, Tex. "I guess I should be homesick but I'm not. Right now, I feel all ofmy teammates are like family to me. Everybody has 
_____.;...____..;.._..;.. 
#' 
tried to help each other out because· we're all going through the same thing." 
"The hardest part is waking up thinking you're home and then remembering you're not," offers Joe Fazio, an offensive lineman out of Willingboro, N.J. "But there's really no time to think about it after that. We're either eating, practicing, or attending meetings the rest of the day." 
The freshman have not only jelled together as a class, but with their older teammates as well. 
"The upperclassmen have never 
treated us as inferiors," explains defensive back Joe Johnson (Fostoria, Ohio). "They're always willing to help us out at practice ­it's not like, 'Hey, he's after my spot,"'. 
"I'm a wingback," says Dave 
Machtolf (Spokane, Wash.), "and 
(junior wingback) Tony Hunter has 
helped me so much it's unreal. He's 
been like a player-coach thfs week. I 
guess they remember what it's like 
to be a freshman." 
But the veterans aren't the only 
ones lending a helping hand. The 
newcomers are getting a lot ofassis­
tance from someone who's a rookie 
himselfthisseason-Faust. 
"He's exactly the dynamo I ex­
pected," notes Underwood, "a 24­
hour bundle ofenergy. And he really 
looks out for us." 
One who should know is Moeller 
product Mike Larkin. "Coach Faust is 
the exact same person he was at 
Moeller," says the big linebacker. "I 
couldn't believe it. I didn't think it 
was possible for him to give all the 
players such personal attention at 
the college level, but he still says hi 
to almost every one of us during 
warm-ups." 
"Coach Faust is the reason we're 
all here," adds Pearcy. "I could have 
been happy at a lot ofschools but the 
desire to play for him was too great." 
And the desire to don Irish uni­

_,• waiting for another institution to put its head on the 
legal chopping block and challenge Title IX In court. 
Confronted with spiraling costs just to support its athletic programs for men, Notre Dame put a freeze on offering scholarships in the non-profit bearing sports. Meanwhile, the University's hierarchy tried to sort things out and come up with a sound solution. The results of that gave us what we have today -a progressive and ambitious athletic philosophy that complements the Notre Dame theory of academic ex­cellence first, athletic excellence second, but excel­lence in both ifpossible. 
· The most visible part of this new era is Gerry Faust. 
The uninitiated will hear ...-----------------------.womenin basketball as well 
more · than enough about this . one-of-a-kind football coach soon. Some fanatics wonder if he gets his socks wet when he walks across St. Mary's Lake. More worldly 
old-timers compare him to Rockne. Most view him simply as a sincere, ener­getic,.dedicated and giving human being who spends all of himself on his family and on the place he has always wanted to be -Notre 
Dame. His innovative of­fenses will remind you ofthe Dallas Cowboys, and for the 
first time In recent memory, you won't see "tailback off left tackle; tailback off right

tackle; tailback up the middle;.._p_u_n_t-:.':-'---------w-o-u'ld-;-;b-e-st:-e_p_p-:-i_n_g_d.,...o_w-Jn 'after more than 31 years as 
But this new era goes far beyond royal-blue jerseys and Gerry Faust. It reaches all the way to the top ofthe administrative ladder. 
Notre Dame's athletic department always has been and always will be controlled by the University ad­ministration. It will never be permitted to stand on its own as an independent entity, and that is a good thing. Athletics should never get bigger than the school itself. Notre Dame has managed to keep its nose clean with the NCAA largely because of strict internal enforce­ment. 
The chairman ofthe Faculty Board in Control ofAth­letics is Fr. Edmund P. Joyce, a name that means 
~:=-.....~--·~..---"'-""'·......... _._..._.._.-:~ ..... ~":.~~........-......... ~··-·...._ ...........-~~~-~ ~.,.....,_...~·""·-·--·~......-_••••_.ll!&•iii
.............. 

forms and become a part of the Notre Dame mystique was pretty strong, too. 
"I'm just starting to realize I'm ac­tually here," said an overwhelmed Joe Howard with a wide grin. "At practice, you kind of block it out ­
-you just think about playing for a team." "Yeah, you get too nervous ifyou constantly think about being here at Notre Dame," agreed Tony Piccin, a linemen out of Whitehall, Pa "On the field, you just do what comes naturally, but off the field, you're well aware of what a special place 
this is." 

Few freshman, even the ones as 'talented as this prized bunch, are able to crack the line-up and make immediate contributions. But Faust and his staff aren't worried about these athletes living up to their press clippings. They've all made strong showings in practice this week. 
And the freshmen themselves aren't worried about their new home living up to its notoriety, either. "Coach Faust is a quality per­son, and so are all the other players, 
See FRESHMEN, page 20 

Tradition lives 
Let a ne-w era begin atND 
For generations, young men and women about to become students at Notre Dame have been reminded over and over by friends, family and advisors that they are about to become part ofthe rich and exciting tradi­tion of the Fighting Irish. But the incoming Class of 1985 finds itself in a unique situation. Over the past several months, the University has molded a new begin­ning. Today we stand at the dawn ofa new era in Notre Dame athletics, butone that will be seasonedwith tradi­tion. 
The origins ofthis refreshed approach are tied to the enactment ofTitle IX In 1975. While many schools took steps to balance expenditures proportionately among men and women, Notre Dame sat back and watched -. 
Saturday, August 22, 1981 -page 24 

The New Notre Dame 
•Gene 
Corrigan, athletic director. 

• 
Gerry Faust, football coach. 

• 
Sharon Petro, recently named chairman of the Physical Education 


Dept. 

• Sct:lolarships for women in vol-f b k b II
leyball and five more Or aS et a ' .-Hockey team jump to the CCHA. 
• Athletic Endowment Fund. 
jay Underwod, a 6'5"freshman defensive lineman (81), is one of the many talented freshman on this year's Irish squad. (Photo by jobnMacor) 

different things'to different people. To most he is the main reason Notre Dame is what it is toda .y -the man who executed the philosophy which is Notre Dame, both athletically and otherwise. To others he is a tyran­nical dictator concerned solely with the almighty dol-. lar. Most likely he is a blend ofthe two -steeringNotre 
Dame to greatness in the face of enormous economic 
pressures while playing his cards close to his chest. 
In the last 18 months, Joyce has made excellent, foresighted decisions that will effect the course of Notre Dame athletics into the 21st Century. 
When the scholarship freeze was lifted in the spring of 1980, the status quo was restored, compliance with Title IX began and first steps were taken toward the creation ofNotre Dame's first-ever endowment fund to help support athletics. Last fall freshmen basketball players Mary Joan Forbes and Jenny Klauke received Notre Dame's first athletic scholarships ever granted to women. Several more have been given to incoming 
Athletic Director, Joyce brought in one of the best in the business, Gene Corrigan of Virginia Corrigan is recognized as an innovative and progressive thinker whQ excels in raising money to expand programs. 
The point is, Notre Dame no longer will be satisfied with sitting back and basking in her glory and tradition. No one has changed the words to the Fight Song or de· emphasized academics. They have simply adjusted to the present and prepared for the future. Notre Dame still "shakes down the thunder", especially during a touchdown drive in Notre Dame Stadium. It's just that now the administrative end of Notre Dame is finally marching "onward to victory.'' 
as volleyball. 

In response to the enor­mous costs of playing hock­ey in the nation's finest college league, the Western Collegiate Hockey Associa­
tion, the University an­nounced that beginning with the 1981-82 season, the Irish would be compet­ing in the more geographi­cally compact Central Collegiate Hockey Associa­tion. This should make it 
more feasible to compete at the Division I level without draining the budget with 
vast travel expenses. When Moose Krause an­nounced last October he 
Freshman quarterback Ken Karcher pays attention to Coach Faust's Instructions In yesterday's practice session. (Photo byjohnMacor) 










