Helen Hayes -page 7
' ' ' 

VOL. XVI, NO. ';9 

Lifton 
•

revtews department 
Editor's note: Totlay's Q and A features Mitchell Lifton, chairman of the Notre name-Saint Mary's /J(•partment of Communication and Tb(•atre. This department has ('XPerlenced dramatic curriculum changes arul grml'th in the three y(•ars since Lifton was named to chair the department (/ormer~y knou•n as the DepartmentofSpeec;h urul Drama.) These are some ex­erpts from an interview Editor-in­Chief john McGrath conducted with Lifton last Thursday: 

Mitchell !Jfton 
Q: /low Jar bas the department t·ome in three years? 
A: When I came into the department, there were seven regular full-time fa~:ulty in the entire department. There are currently II faculty. But these figures arc somewhat mislead­Ing because: all of the theatre faculty also taught speech courses. At the moment, no one considered a mem­ber of the theatre faculty has any responsibility for any communica­tion courses, and vice versa. The previous curriculum had, in effect grown like topsy. It was not a com­prehensive series of courses in the study of communication: it was a series ofcourses in one small area of communication studies -and only In that area, namely speech com­munication. 
When the new curriculum went Into operation (fall semester of 1980), there were two Notre Dame majors. At the moment, we're some­where around the 90 mark. And the number of students being serviced by the department has gone from a total ofaround 200 to 454. 
Q: What course did you envision the department following under your direction? . 
A: It was very clear to us that something had to be done about this (curriculumn confusion). One of the reasons I wa.~ brought here was to develop the film program: but a film program ofa very specific kind. In other words, we were not in­terested in primarily training people who going to go out and become Francis Ford Coppola..~. i.e. were going to join the film industryperse. We're interested in developing a film program that will do essentially two things: Number one: raise the levd of visual literacy. The other problem that had to be addressed is how do we usc, spt·cifically in the Notre Dame value-oriented context, these skills? Our wish was not only w train better consumers of visual material. but also to dt•velop specific ways of training the producers of vbual material. Wt•'re interested in st·eing people from the widest pos­sible variety of disciplines learn to usc film and video as a way ofmaking their own disciplines more contem­porary and function more cffidcnt­ly. 
Q: flow have the administrations of Notre Dame 
See LIFfON, page 5 
an mdepc:ndent srudent newspaper serving none dame and saint mary's MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1981 
Fr. Berrigan discusses nuclear protests 
ByVIC SCIULLI sioned to design the new building. especially in the auditorium. The pay taxes. "We arc able to say 'no' News Staff Completed in 1881, the new Wash­remodeling also included the instal· with our own money," he said. ington Hall was styled in a modern lation of new lighting fixtures, a 
Berrigan also suggested Washington Hall, the home for Gothic mode and possessed the radiant heating system and a new 
demonstrating at nearby nuclear in­many of the cultural events here at similar placement, facade and ventilating system. 
stallations. "Each of us lives within Notre Dame is celebrating its cen­proportions as those ofSacred Heart Washington Hall, which was ncar­
walking distance of our own demise," he noted. "This shouldtennial this month. One of the Uni­Church. The two structures, along 
See FOCUS, page 6 
evoke a responsibility."
versity's original buildings, with the Administration Building, 
Washington Hall ha.~ a rich history defined the beginnings of a central 
and has played an important role in quadrangle for the University. 
University life over the years. Washington Hall, so named be­
Renowned Polish director
The building which we now call cause the first president was Edward Washington Hall is actually the Sorin's greatest American political second building at Notre Dame to be hero, was really two buildings. The given that name. The first Washing­octagonal shaped main building had 


joins ND/SMC faculty 
ton Hall, built in 1846, was located in a seating capacity for approximately 
approximately the same area as the 700 people. The first performance By DAVID SARPHIE versities in the United States and
.­
to take place in Washington Hall was SeniorStaffReporter Europe. He currently teaches at 
a production ofSophocles "Oedipus 
both the National School ofMONDA~I Tyrannus", performed entirely in One of the leading figures in Drama at Krakow and Wroclaw the original Greek. Since that time, the world of theatre will join the University and sc:rves as Artistic the stage of Washington Hall has faculty of the Notre Dame/Saint Director and General Manager of


-.FOCUS 
presented numerou~ concerts, 
Mary's Communication and Teatr Wspolozesny in Wroclaw. 
plays, and recitals, as well as a share Theatre Department next semes­Braun ha.' authored several present one. The two-story clap­of guest speakers, including Henry ter. Professor Kasimierz Braun, a books, including The Secondboard building housed cla.~sroooms James, William Butler Yeats and Wil­world-renowned Polish director Reform of th(• Theatre, The Newand prat·tice rooms and instruments liam Jennings Bryan. In the rear of and author will serve as a visiting Theatre in the World -1960­
enough for both an orchestra and a the building was located the music 
faculty member and guest direc­1970, and Notebook ofa Direc­marching band. The building also hall which housed performing tor for the spring semester. tor. During his long career, Braun
served as the site of numerous rooms, dressing rooms and the stu­
Braun has worked as a ha.~ worked with such significantcampus cultural activities. including dent athlete association. 
prominent director in the profes· theatrical and literary figures a.o;
plays, recitals, and student as­The building has undergone a sional Polish theatre for over Nobel Prize winner Czeslowsemblies. number of minor renovations over twenty years, garnrting Milosz, author Jan Kott, dramaThe structure wa.'i destroyed by the years. In 1933 a sandstone trim numerous performance and critic Richard Schlechner, andtire in 18'79. Plans to replace the was added to the ti-ont entrance. The directing awards, including a director Jerzy Grotowski, one ofbuilding began immediately. Ar­first major facelift for the bo.~ilding 
Badge of Merit for National the most influential theatricalchitect Willoughby ]. Edbrooke, occurred in 1956. The project, Culture. In addition to his many personalities ofthis century.
who had previously designed the involving no structural changes, in­television and theatre credits,
Administration Building, La Fortune, cluded extensive remodeling and See BRAUN, page 4
Braun has taught at several uni-and Sorin College, was commis· redecoration for the entire building, 

By KELLI FLINT 
Executive News Editor 
Fr. Daniel Berrigan discussed his role in a nuclear protest act at a General Electric Plant in Pennsylva­nia with a packed audience in the library auditorium Saturday night. 
Notre Dame graduate joseph Cosgrove introduced Berrigan, referring to him a.'i a hero. "He received our nation's highest 
honor," Posgrove said, "a federal conviction for burning draft records." 
Berrigan began by stating that he wanted to talk about what happened in the past year, pondering "What's happened to Christians in our time?" 
A member of the group the "Plowshares Eight"( named after the biblical passage about beating swords into plowshares), Berrigan, his·brother Philip and six others were sentenced to prison in July on burglary convictions resulting from a break-in September 9 at a suburban General Electric Co. plant. 
Describing the events that led to the incident at the plant, Berrigan 
· said a three-day retreat was held in preparation for the break-in. "The Mark 12-A missle is concocted in an extraordinarily remote factory the size ofa football field," Berrigan said. "We went in as an act of faith to destroy or at least damage these symbols ofgenocide. 
"When we found the weapons, we threw blood on them, performing the first act of nuclear disarmament in 35 years." 
Commenting on his sentence, 

Wash. Hall marksanniversary 
Berrigan cited a "law of justifica­tion" in Pennsylvania. "If a person commits a crime to prevent greater evil, that person should be held in­nocent," he said. 
Berrigan added that he wa.~ struck by the "language ofevasion" used in testimonies at the trial, noting that there was a nuclear weapon in the midst ofthe courtroom. "For most of the people in the room, this was their first glance at a nuclear missle -stained with human blood and damaged," he said. 
"There was a dance of death around that weapon ofdeath. In war, the first casualty is the casualty of truth." 
"They called the weapon every­thing but a nuclear weapon. There was a truly 'Nazi' anti-vocabulary. 

They  called  the  misslc  hardware,  
software,  anything  but  a  nuclear  
weapon."  

Before sentencing, the defendants were allowed to bring in experts to speak on their behalf. "The experts were previously not allowed in the courtroom," Berrigan said, "but the judge felt the case was sewn up al­ready." 
One of the experts, Dr. Robert Uf­ton of Harvard, described the condition "psychic numbing," citing the surviving victims of Hiroshima as examples, Berrigan said. 

"These people created the illu­sion that the bomb hadn't dropped as a 'bread and butter' way of sur­vival. It was numbing ofthe soul that allowed them to walk the world sane." 
Lifton added that this numbing is occurring"before the fact" in our country. "The (Plowshares) Eight should be honored because they broke through this numbing and raised the cry ofawareness." 
When asked how people can act to oppose the nuclear arms race, Berrigan recommended refusing to 

ews Brie s 
Monday, November 16, 1981-page 2 

By The Observer and The Associated Press 
The University of Notre Dame and Rev. 
Theodore M. Hesburgh will be the subjects ofa segment on CBS-TV . News' popular "60 Minutes" program next year. Some film was shot on campus Saturday, Nov. 7, around the football game against Geor­gia Tech, and Harry Reasoner is expected to visit the campus in early December. This will be the first extensive network feature on Hes­burgh and the University since Dan Rather did a profile for a CBS-TV News program called "Who's Who" in 1977. In 1970, an NBC-TV program called "First Tuesday" looked at changes on the Notre 
Dame campus with Sander Vanocur as anchorman. No air date has been set for the "60 Minutes" telecast. -The Observer 
Students at the University of Nevada-
Reno apparently would rather drive themselves to drink than patronize their campus pub. School officials complain that stiffcom­petition from casinos caused the campus bar's early demise. After a rocky three months in which it lost thousands ofdollars, the pub was closed recently. Students, who fought for years with administrators to establish a bar on campus, turned up their noses once the bar was established, said Pete Perriera, director ofthe student union. "I think the novelty of it wore off," he said. "It became a symbol for the students: 'Hey, we're adults -treat us as adults."' He said students soon discovered what many locals already knew: many casinos, in an 
effort t t o lure patrons, offer free-drink tokens to people who cash their checks ttlere. And if the astute casino-hopper plays his cards right, he can· get into see a show with free drinks to boot. Other school officials placed the blame soley on the campus bar's rather sterile surroundings. "We couldn't fool people into believing they were somewhere else," said a top official in student government, which provided most ofthe pub's financial backing. "You can put in a few plants, but it's still the snack bar." -AP 
John Marske, a freshman at Notre Dame, was 
attacked by a group of approximately eight men, around 10 p.m. Friday evening outside of Irish Country. Marske later told friends that his assailants appeared to be black and in their early twenties. Marske, walking with a friend, suffered an injury to the head, and was taken t<? the emergency room at St. Joseph's Memorial Hospital, where he was treated and released. Marske's wound required stitches, and according to the doctor who treated Marske, the wound appeared to have been inflicted by a baseball bat. The group did not harm Marske's friend, and took no money from either of them before fleeing the scene. The South Bend police were un­available for comment on the incident. Marske checked into the stu­dent health center on Saturday night for observation, and was released Sunday morning. Last night Marske reported that he "felt fine." -The Observer 
Terry Blasier thought his new child was great. Then his wife, Cindy, discovered the couple had taken home the wrong baby. Mrs. Blasier had given birth to a boy at Brussel's Algoma Memorial Hospital. When the couple left the hospital for their Stur­geon Bay home last week, a nurse handed them a cuddly infant wearing a cap that helped disguise its identity, the new father said. Mrs. Blasier "got home and tried to change a diaper, and it was a girl instead of a boy," he said. He said he immediately telephoned the hospital and learned that the Blasiers had taken home Jessica Ann Holland instead of Ryan Robert Blasier. The girl is the daughter of David and judy Holland of Maplewood and had been scheduled to leave the hospital several hours after Ryan. Mrs. Holland had yet to leave the hospital when the mistake was discovered. Hospital offi­cials said the switch apparently happened when the babies were returned to the nursery after spending time t with their mothers. Blasier said he had no hard feelings: "It happens. It's just one ofthose things." Holland and Blasier, by the way, were high school clas­smates. -AP 
Concerned members of the Notre Dame student body, faculty and staff, weighing the possible presence of an al­coholism problem and the need for a University policy, have scheduled an open forum for 7 p.m. Wednesday (Nov. 18) in the conversation pit ofFianner Hall. The discussion and question period is the outgrowth ofan extended study ofcampus alcohol conditions by the University's Priorities and Commitments for Excellence (PACE) committee, the Hall President's Council, The Observer and other student organizations. David Link, dean of the Notre Dame Law School and member of the PACE subcommittee on student life, will chair the session open to the University community. Other par­ticipants will be Walter Davis, a professor ofEnglish representing the faculty, Lt. Cmdr. Richard Horstman of the Navy ROTC, a specialist in addiction problems, Dr. Terry Alley, a South Bend Physician, providing medical answers for question period, Flanner Hall Presi­dent and Student Senator Lloyd A. Burke, Jr., representing the Campus Life Council, and Peggy Cronin, alcohol and drug counselor for the psychiatric services office on the campus. -AP 
Cloudy today with a 30 percent chance of showers. Highs in the mid 50s. Tonight decreasing clouds and mild. Lows in the mid and upper 30s. Tomorrow partly sunny and mild. Highs in the upper 50s. -AP 
Mardi Gras -alive and well 
Billed as "the oldest continuous annual social event at Notre Dame," Mardi Gras has been a mainstay of the winter social life around here since 1947. For ten days students could try their luck at blackjack, poker, and other games of chance, with the proceeds going to a News Editor variety oflocal charities. Then, shortly before the begin­ning of last year's Mardi Gras, Dame Fortune, or more Inside Monday specifically, Fr. William McManus, Bishop of the South 

Bend-Fort Wayne diocese, frowned upon the event. 
Bishop McManus decreed that all diocesan institu­tions wouid comply with the state of Indiana's anti­gambling statute. His announcement seemed to spell the end of Mardi Gras. 
The concept of Mardi Gras may be gone, but its spirit is going stronger than ever. Agroup ofstudents, headed by co-chairmen Andy Shafer and jim Stork, and guided by Director ofStudent Activities Dr. James McDonnell, are brimming with optimism as they put together a Mardi Gras that does not include gambling, but ac­hieves the same important end, the raising ofmoney for local charities. 
This year's Mardi Gras will consist of three events; a weekend carnival, a campus-wide variety show, and a dance marathon. The carnival is scheduled for Feb. 5-7, and will be -held at Stepan center. According to McDonnelL the carnival will feature 20-25 booths manned by residence halls and campus groups. The booths will feature "traditional carnival games," and will be constructed by a private company from the Chicago area. Prizes will also be provided by this com­pany. As in years past, a per­centage of the proceeds from each booth will go to the dorm/group running that booth. A list of games and a lottery for the booths is forthcoming, McDonnell 
\said. 

The variety show is still in the planning stage. McDonnell explained that each dorm on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses will hold individual talent competitions, and will sub­mit the best act from those competitions for the show. 
"There's so much talent on these two campuses, a variety show can't miss," McDonnell said. 
The dance marathon will be the capstone of Mardi Gras, 1982. Scheduled for Saturday, Feb. 13, in the North Dome of the ACC, the twelve-hour dance will begin at 1 p.m. In order to participate, each dancer must get twenty sponsors. Sponsors donate three dollars, which entitles them to four dollars' worth of discounts at a local pizza establishment, and enables sponsors to attend the dance from 9 p.m. on. In addition, sponsors are eligible for door prizes, the top prize being an all­expenses-paid trip for two to the Mardi Gras in New Orleans. 
A live band will be featured at the dance. Authentic 
Mardi Gras refreshments, such as gumbo and hur­
ricanes (booze-less) will be served. According to 
Mardi Gras committee co-chairman Andy Shafer, five 
~............................ 
_The_Qhserxer_ 
Design Editor ............................. Mike Monk Design Assistant ................. Marilyn Larkin 

~~illlo's ~ i
Special Staff....... "NoDoz" Ver Berkmoes Typesetter............................ Stephen Brown News Editor ......:............ David Rickabaugh Copy Editors ........................... Paul McGinn 
joe Musumeci 

t Hair i 
Features Layout ......................)ake Swicrcz Sports Copy Editor ........ Mark Hannuksela Typlst....................................)ohn McCarthy Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley 

l Desigll s·~::::,!~·· i
ND Day Editor ......................... David Grote SMC Day Editor ....................... Cece Baliles Ad Design .................................... Fran & Co. 

! i
Welcomes All Notre Dame and St. Mary's
Photographer ......................... Cheryl Ertel! Guest Appearances ....................... Rawhide 

Students to a SPecial Discount ~ 
Crab-infested Duich moose from Maryland 
$10.00 Gentlemen 
Maura "up-front" Murphy 

18461 St. Rd. 23 $1,.00 Ladies 
Cartoonists Ouisians 

L::~::e.c~e:::;s••••••::o~:}~~-~!:s.l 
hundred dancers are needed to reach the committee's goal of 530,000 for this event. Both McDonnell and Shafer: stressed that one does not need a date for the dance. "All you need is a willingness to dance," McDon­nell explained. Tickets for sponsors will be available in early December. 
One of the sources of the Mardi Gras committee's optimism is that this year's events stand to raise more money for the Notre Dame charities than has been raised in the past. In recent Mardi Gras, the overhead was extremely high, funds being needed for the materials and paint that went into the booths. The over­head for last year's Mardi Gras was approximately $30,000, according to McDonnell. The comittee hopes to keep this year's expenses down to !5,000. 
The Notre Dame charities range from the ND/SMC Council for the Retarded to a mission in India. Accord­ing to Shafer, the proceeds from Mardi Gras make up a sizeable portion of the revenue needed by some of these charities. "They (the 
.charities) need our money; they count on it," Shafer said. 

It is not just the amount of money that is raised by Mardi Gras for these charities that is the cause of the Mardi Gras committee's spirit ofoptimism. The act of v' giving, both of one's time and of one's money, is 
"DbJ~~ 1t~/.N enough of an incentive for anyone to take part in Mardi Gras. Add to this that one also has a good time while giving, and it is easy to see why the Mardi Gras organizers are enthusiastic about this new version of"the oldest continuous annual social event at Notre Dame." 
"Unlike the United Way drive, where the students just contributed a few dollars, Mardi Gras is a whole lot offun and a painless way ofhelping out a lot of worthy causes," McDonnell pointed out. 
Mardi Gras will get no further than this planning stage, however, without additional student help. Shafer will go before the Hall President's Council tomorrow evening to explain the duties ofhall representatives for Mardi Gras, and to enlist the HPC's assistance in finding volunteers. There will be an organizational meeting for volunteers Thursday evening at 7:30 in the Flanner Pit. 
The Observer is your newspaper. Comments and constructive criticism are appreciated. Stop by our LaFortune office, give us a call drop a line to The Ob­server, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editorial Board 

Editor-in-Chief..............................john McGrath 
THE INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Executive News Editor.........................Kelli Flint Sports Editor ..............................Michael Ortman
SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARYS. 
News Editor ..................................Tim VerceUotti Editorials Editor.......................Anthony Walton FOUNDED NOV. 3, 1966 News Editor............................. David Rickabaugh 
Photo Editor........................................john Macor 
• The Observer is an independent Editorials represent the opinion of a SMC Executive Editor........... Mary Agnes Carey 
Features Editor .........................Gregory Swiercz 
newspaper published by the students of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commen-SMC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint taries. opinions and letters are the views of Mary's College. It ·does not necessarily their authors. Column space is available to 
Department Managers 
reflect the policies of the administration of all members ofthe community, and the free either institution. The news is reported as expression of varying opinions on campus, Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola accurate~y a~-as objectively _as possible. through Letters~ e":c~~ra~e_d: Produc(ion Manager ...................Michael Monk Controller.............................................joe Multlur P.O.BOX Q,NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 (219)283-8661 
Circulation Manager .............Tom Maclennan Advertising Manager .......................Chris Owen 

The Observer Monday, November 16, 1981 -page J 
One week evaluation 
Student escort service on ·trial 
By MARGARET FOSMOE to determine whether it will be con­ing escorts for a particular night and StaffReporter tinued. 
time. Escorts are available at the Conway attributes much of the library to escort a woman to her 
Student Government placed the lack ofinterest to the fact that there dorm from 10-11 :4 5 pm. Elsewhere, Student Escort Service on a trial have been no reported attacks after women may call 7668 to be es­basis this week in order to evaluate a dark so far this year. This may have corted anywhere on campus from 7­lack of interest in the program, lulled students into a false sense of 12pm. according to Brian Conway, Student security. He warns: "Last year there He emphasized that the response Security Commissioner. were no attacks reported until about and evaluation this week will 
The evaluation will determine this time of year. Because of the determine whether the escort sys­whether student response is great warm autumn, more people have tem will ultimately be maintained or enough to warrant continued exist­been out at night." Conway went on dropped. Ifonly one or two calls are ence of the program. If not, the to emphasize that with the advent of received, it will be assumed the in­service will be discontinued. cold weather, the campus will be terest is simply not present, said 
The escort system was inacted more deserted at night, providing Conway. "The program is for the two weeks after fall break in little protection for a lone female. benefit of the student body as a respon t se to what seemed to be a This, he says, is the importance of whole. The evaluation will genuine interest in such a service. maintaining the escort system. determine ifthe student body feels it Utilization, however, has been mini­is an important and necessary
The system works on a volunteer
mal, with few women students program, and whether it should be taking advantage of the service. In basis, with each male dorm supply-retained." addition, the program has been plagued by organizational problems and a lack of male escort volunteers. 
Air Force destroys 
Conway said there has been an es­cort system at Notre Dame on and off over past years. However, this is 
submarine test missile 
the first time the program has lasted 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP)-A function caused the missil; to veer 
to a second consecutive year. 

Trident missile fired from a sub­offcourse 55 seconds after launch.
The response has dropped con­
merged submarine veered off An Air Force range safety officer
siderably from last year, causing the 
course yesterday and had to be immediately pushed a button in the
need for a reevaluation ofthe system 
destroyed by an Air Force safety of­control center and exploded the ficer, officials said. missile, he said. The Navy missile was launched at Officials were studying data to 
12:50 p.m. from the USS Benjamin determine the exact cause of the Franklin, cruising below the surface failure, Moore said. about 50 miles off the coast of Cape Moore declined to say which way Canaveral. the missle veered.
Hinckley attempts suicide 
Major )ames Moore, spokesman The Trident has a range of 4,900 for Patrick Air Force Base, said the to 6,900 miles, compared to the WASHINGTON (AP) -john W. at the base hospital overnight for ob­an article of clothing." DeCair said launch and ignition of the missile's 2,880-mile range of the Poseidon 
servation. he did not know what article was first stage were normal, but a mal-misslcs.
Hinckley Jr., awaiting trial on <:harges of attempting to a~sassinate It wa'i the second time since used. President Reagan, tried to hang him­Hinckley's arrest on March 30 at the selfin a military prison yesterday but site of the attack on the president in Hinckley is scheduled to go to tri­was cut down by U.S. Marshals, the Washington that he has made an ap­al )an. 4 in U.S. District Court in justice Department announced. parent attempt to harm himself. Washington on a 13-count federal 
Department spokesman Tom On May 27, while jailed it n Butner, indictment charging him with at­DeCair said the 26-year-old N.C., Hinckley took an overdose of tempted assassination of Reagan and Hinckley was taken to the hospital at Tylenol, an aspirin substitute, and with wounding Reagan, a Secret Fort Meade, Md., where he had been was taken to the prison infirmary. Service agent, a Washington confined, and was described last DeCair said yesterday's incident policeman and White House press night as in satisfactory condition. occurred at 4:55 p.m., when secretary James Brady outside the DeCair said Hinckley would be held Hinckley "tried to hang himselfwith Washington Hilton Hotel. 

In Houston 
Astronauts rest before debriefing 
SPACE CENTER, Houston (AP)­Shuttle astronauts Joe: Engle and Richard Truly, back from a brief but successful mission in the t1rst spacecraft to make a return trip to space, shared breakfast with Vice President George Bush yesterday and rested up for a week of debrief· ing. 
The shuttle Columbia, its five-day mission cut in half by a faulty fuel unit, returned to earth on Saturday in a second picture perfect landing in California's Mojave Desert. 
Despite its pr(>hlems, the winged, reusable rocketship proved itself a "magnificent tlying machine," Engk said. 
Bush also praised tht· men and machines of America's second shuttle voyage and called the Na­tional Aeronautics and Space Ad­minitation a "national treasure." 
"Can that tlmg pick up, eventually -is it designed to pick up an alien satdlitt:?" the Vice-President asked Truly, the shuttle pilot, during brt·akfast chit-chat at the Johnson Space Centt:r. 
The Observer !USPS 598 920) IS publtshed Monday 1t1rough Fnday dnd on home football Saturday5. except dunng exam and v~catton penods The Observer IS publishf;,J by ttle students of Notre Dame and .'Jatnt Mary s Col­lege Subscriptions <T1ay be purchased for $25 per year i$15 per semester) by wn!lng The Observer. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lndtana 46556 
The Observer •S a member of The Associated Press All reproductton nghts are reserved 
Second class postage patd at Notre Dame. lndtana 46556 
"It can," Truly replied. 

After the breakfast with NASA offi­cials, tlight controllers and others, Bush said the tlight proved again "the llnited States is the greatest country there is." 
"This NASA complex and the people who make it up are a national treasure, and it is essential that whatever we do in Washington, this national treasure be preserved and continued, and it will be," he said. 
After breakfast, Engle and Truly spent the rest of the mild and sunny autumn day at home with their families. 
"Monday they'll pick up on a solid week of technical briefings," said NASA spokesman Terry White. "Each system group's engineers will 
get  a  crack at  them  to  pick their  
brains  on  what  works  and  what  
needs to he improved."  

Astronams Ken Mattingly and Hank Hartst1eld, who served as the backup crt·w for the Engle-Truly mission, will attend the briefings too, although they have not yet been designated a~ the cn:'w f!)r the next shuttle mission, scheduled· for 
March. 

About nine days after the brief­ings, Engle and ·Truly will hold a news conference, where a key topic will be how the normally reliable electrical power unit broke down in space. 
The breakdown left two function­ing power cells aboard, but NASA of­ficials, always conservative, invoked a "minimum mission" rule that re­quires triplicates in certain systems. The: 106-ton winged shuttle could limp by with only one fuel cell, but if all three failed the ship would be stranded in orbit. 
NASA officials said prudence dictated the decision to cut the 84­hour mission to 54 hours. Acting as­s<iciate administrator L. Michael Weeks said the loss was minimal. 
"I rate the success of the mission in the 90 to 95 percent class," he said. "As to the famous tile problem, it's getting better flight by tlight." tJnlike the last trip, none ofthe ship's . thert'nal protection tiles came off on re-entering the atmosphere. _ 

~-----foN-Y'ss"HOF:-s'HoP! 
• 

•
Shoes, boots, keys made • 
.. I 
q-..llr!llfilf-R....R-epiairs-zippers, shoes, etc.• 
rr ''I''
TONY'S S~OE: SHOP ...._ 
023 ... ~Ao!~~-~~ Open 6 days 8-5 
CAMPUS PICK-UP & DELIVERY 
Mon., Tues., Thurs.,3:30-4:30 in 429 Lyons or call Mary Powell Jabaley at 7983. 
~--------------------------~------------· 


Just S159 will put you on the road ·for ten full days with unlimited mileage in a manual-transmission subcompact car. Ifyou are 18orolder, have amajorcredit card and a valid driver's license, that's all you need. Tell us what size car you would like, and we'll have it ready for you starting November 20. · 
Rates are not discountable.\ -~''"e. applkable taxes, optional Collision Damage Waiver and Persor dent Insurance are not included. No charge for mileage. All car· t to availability. Cars must be returned to the renting location no lr November 30, 1981 or higher published Hertz Daily Standard Ur.. Mileage Rates will apply to the entire rental period, and a dropcharge will also apply. Ask for complete details. 
#1ForEveryone. 

Lar er cars avalleble'!lt higher rates. HERlZ RENTS FORDS AND OTHER FINE CARS 
The Observer Monday, November 16, 1981 page 4 
SMC council 
Responsible drinking supported 
By KANDY POWELL the problem and the need to act also a Peer Assistance Program made News Staff responsibly. There is also a three up ofstudent volunteers who are ed­credit course, Psychology of Social ucated and trained to intervene 
The Alcohol Education Council at and Problem Drinking, offered an­directly and provide assistance to in­St. Mary's College, directed by lisa nually by the St. Mary's College psy­toxicated students and thier con­Schute. is made up of thirty two St. chology department. cerned friends and room-mates. Mary's students concerned with al­Many agencies in the South Bend The council is supported by cohol use and abuse within the com­commumtl), such as The Al­community contributions. There is 
munity. The council's philosopy is coholism Council, A.A., and Al-Anon an anonymous donor who has con­
to enjoy responsible drinking. The are active in the special program­tributed thousands of dollars to the purpose of the council is to educate ming efforts of the council. There is council since 1979. students about the use and effects of alcohol. They also want to offler sup­port to students with a drinking problem as well as to those who are 
SMC Governance Board 
affected by friends or relativves with alcohol related problems. The Alcohol Education Council 
discusses campus energy
office is located in 164 Regina Hall. 
It It is an information and resource center; a place where students can By MARY MciNERNEY are hoping that the school-wide ef­go to ask quesions, offer suggestions, News Staff fort will continue because of this find help and support, and offer help positive feeling from the faculty." and support to others. The office is The Saint Mary's Board of Gover­open every evening until midnight. nance met last night to discuss 
Vice President of Academic At~ 

The members of the council campus energy conservation and fairs, Em my Lopez added, "Members receive free training and education progress in the Library Committee. of the Board should keep talking to in alcohol use abuse and .interven­Faculty member Dr. Joseph Bel­faculty and administrators to make tion. The program is designed to 
lina and student Marianne Viola them aware ofstudent feedback." help students deal with alcohol addressed the Board concerning the related problems which concern or current pop can recycling drive. Eileen Murphy, Student Body scare them, such as an intoxicated "We are trying to make the Board of President, stated, "Our input does friend or roommate. Governance aware of saving energy count concerning what will be done 
The program is one of education in the dorms and we ask for support, with the old library. Students should and support. Alcohol Education especially in the can drive," Viola be more aware of the important Workshops are held during the year. stated. The money that will be saved message that we are being listened Through the usc of speakers, on dorm energy this winter will be to by the administration." movies, and discussions, St. Mary's given to each hall for their own use. students explore why they drink and Other issues discussed at the 
the pressures within the campus Donna Perreault, Vice President meeting were plans for the winter culture which which encourage al­ofStudent Affairs updated the Board carnival held by the Student Ac­cohol abuse. The workshops are on progress in the Old Library Com­tivities Planning Board. the good designed to encourage students to mittee. Perreault stated, "The return of the School Charity Survey, reflect on the quality of their drink­faculty was happy to see enthu~iasm and participation by students in this 
ing, thus creating an awareness of from students about this issue. We weeks OXFAMfast. 

1How deep does it go' set for Wednesday 
An international authority and tour in 1948 and was fascinated by government advisor on African af­its unique culture and government. fairs, Gwendolen M. Carter of In­She spent 13 months there and after diana University, will present the returning in 1952 wrote The Politics founh Provost's Lecture in the series of Inequality. She was excluded dedicated to the International Year from the country for several years of Disabled persons. Her talk, before returning in 1979 to obtain Change in South Africa: How Deep material for Which Way is South Does it Go? at 8 p.m. Wednesday, Africa Going. In January and Nov. 18, in the Memorial Library February of this year, she visited Auditorium is open to the public. Zimbabwe. 
A victim of childhood polio, she A native of Canada, Miss Carter has taught at McMaster University first visited South Afri~a on a world and Wellesley College. 

This couple takes advantage of the pleasant weather to relax and share a few peaceful moments together. (Photo by Cheryl Er­telt) 
UNIVERSITY OF NORDESTANA/ Faculty of Medicine San Francisco de Macoris . ====.~ Dominican Republic 
-aCatholic University fully accredited by Puerto Rico -a 31/2 year medical curria;Ilum wjth 
clinl.cal trai.ni.ng beginni.ng in the first year 
-American students with ECFMG certification and FLEX in the tJ.S. -Limited number of Americans admitted each semester -Tuition-$1200 per semester 
tJNNE Admissions Office 139 85 Street Brooklyn , New York 11209 (212) 238-8989 
Nine-digit .fet 
Reagan tests Doomsdayplane 
WASHINGTON (ap)-President Reagan and his top three aides flew to Washington on yesterday aboard the so-called "Doomsday Plane," a sleek $1 17 million jumbo jet equipped to serve as an airborne command post in a nuclear war. The president called it a "great, fascinat­ing" flight. 
No reporters were permitted to fly with the presidenr, but deputy White House press secretary Larry Speakes later quoted Reagan as saying he was highly impressed and as adding, "It gives me a sense of confidence.•· 
After a weekend in Texas visiting the Houston Space Center, attend­ing a political dinner and hunting wild turkey, Reagan became the second president to fly in the plane, which is based at Andrews Air Force Base near Washington and ready to take off at a moment's notice. 
Presidential counselor Edwin Meese, who did not accompany Reagan this weekend, flew to Texas specifically to ride back with him in the aircraft. Two other top advisers, Chief of StaffJames A. Baker III and Baker's deputy, Michael K. Deaver. also joined the president aboard the plane after hunting with him at a Texas ranch owned by a relative of Baker's wife. 
Speakes said before takeoff that Reagan's flight was for orientation purpses and was not intended as a test of the aircraft. although White House officials are known to be con­cerned about the adequacy ofemer­gency procedures. 
"The military likes to have all new presidents get an opportunity for an orientation," Speakes said. 
White House aides said that the 

plane went through a simulated emergency takeoff when it left San Antonio. 
··································································:
. 

•mLJP 1JII OYrlrl Anyone interested in being on the 1982 WJilLGGii!ll Wlllllll "tnR'S'liB GABBRAJL GOilDIIJl'S''S'llll 
Contact Steve this week at 6244 Student Uni.on Social Commissi.on 
.

'................................................................ 
Monaay, November 16~· 

Weekend Directed by Jean Luc Goddard 1968 {105 min.) ' ­
Goddard delivers one of the great statements about the consumer soco_ety on general, and the automotive dream in partocular. An ompressove example of the work of a major 
screen dialectician. 

lal() Jlrn. ~IJSIIJ~ ()f 4~1 §()f)il§()r£>cl ~' tt1£> ~clrnl§~l()ll ,.e()() ~() S~£ £()~~1J~I£411()~ ~ ll-114l~J 
The president was briefed by Air Force Lt. Gen. Phillip Gast, director of operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Col. James Kidd, chief of the National Emergency Airborne Command Post, the official name for the airplane, Speakes said after lan­ding. 
Army Col. George McCoy, NECAP team chief, gave Reagan a tour on which he met the large crew. "He went over the plane from stem to stern," Speakes said. 
The president spent the rest ofthe 
three-hour flight doing paperwork 
in his compartment. the-spokesman 
said. 

Reagan pinched his finger on the railing of the steps leading from the plane at Andrews with an audible "Ouch." Asked about the flight by reporters who greeted him, Reagan said it was "great, fascinating." 
• • . Braun 
continuedfrom page 1 
Professor Mitchell Lifton, chairman of the Communication and Theatre Department, was excited by the opportunities made available by Braun's presence. "We are extremely for­tunate to have such an important theatrical figure as Professor Braun s erve on our faculty," he said. "No student interested in theatre, history, literature, com­munications, or any number of other liberal arts disciplines should pass up the chance to take a course from him." 
Next semester Braun will teach "Acting III," "Advanced Topics: Polish Drama and Theatre," and "Advanced Topics: Shakespeare Performance,"and will direct a Shakespeare com­edy, yet to be announced. 

~-----------~-------~·------­
The Observer Monday, November 16, 1981 -page 5 


continuedfrom page I 
and Saint .'lfarv's reacted to the changes in the Communication ami Tbeatre Department? 
A: Both administrations have been extremely sympathatic and sup­portive. In fact, the program is logi­cally looking at the possibility of somt· graduate work being done in our fields in kt·eping with the general evolution of Notre Dame in­
to a major rest·arch university. But sonH: ofthe things that make sense at Notrt· Dame, don't make sense at Saint Mary's because Saint Mary's has absolutely no wish of becoming a major research university; it defines itself, and wishes to be very true to this definition, as a four-year liberal arts women's Catholic instution. We're in the process of trying to arrive at a new set of arrangements which will address this disparity. 
Q: What are some ofthe greatest pmhlemsfacing the department? 
A: Growth. It is something that we very much wish, and want to see 
continued;  but  it  does  create  
problems.  It  creates  staffing  
problems,  it  creates  facility  

probkms, it even creates identity problems. 
The probkm with identity is a very serious one. Not only the cross­campus Notre Dame-Saint Mary's confusion, but the confusion over the programs of studies. Now theatre is self-evident, but when you say communication, it becomes more vague. People think, oh, well, tht•y're just doing a lot of literary criticism of films over there, but in fact, communication takes in a very hroad spectrum of need. On one end, it is an aesthetic study; but at tht· other end of the spectrum, it really is a very critical and central so­cial science, so we have to develop a currkulumn that covers that entire spe<.·trum. No more can you study communication without a laboratory expt·rience analogous to chemistry. In our case that includes cameras, video tape recorders, t•diting equipment, etc. 
Overall, however, I would say our greatest problem at the moment is one of evenly distributed percep­tion. There an: large numbers of people who perceive what we're trying to do quite accurately, but there are still sufficient numbers that don't, and I'd like to see that change. 
{.!: /lou• does the Notre Dame­Saint Mary•'s communication and theatre program compare with those at otherAmerican colleges? 
A: At the moment, there arc ap­proximately 4H major under­graduate programs in film and communication studies around the country. I don't think that we've yet bt·gun to make any kind of national "mark" perse, but I do know anum­ber of colleagues from around the country who arc enormously impressed by the intcrdisciplinarity of it -which is kind of a unique feature. This to me is one ofthe great strengths of the program because it does plug us in to the liberal arts context ofthe University and enable us to draw from it in a very meaning­ful way. 

Q: What was the "breakthrough" point for the success ofthe depart­ment? 
A: I think it began to happen when the perception reached the campuses that we were here with a new program. Really, at this time last year, the numbers started pouring through the turnstile. But the "grapevine" still contains messages left over from the old department. 
Q: What is in the future for the department? 
A: Certainly, the t1rst step is a very solid rationalization of the program 
• • • Lifton 
as it currently stands. The first phase was implementing the program, and there arc no doubts that we've done so very successfully. The next phase is to solidify tht· program by address­ing the diffcn:nces in evolution of the two instiutions (Notre Dame and Saint Mary's). I know we're going to have to create some new in­stitutional arrangements. It's very hard co estimate the timetable on the possible graduate program. We have been holding discussions on the possibility of working with the American Studies Department to ex­pand the graduate program in com­
munication arts from a summer program to a year round program of studies. I can't give you any specific predictions of when there will be a graduate program, but I think I can tell you with some assurance that at some point in the ncar future that there will be one. 
Professor Rossi presents lecture on feminism 
Professor Alice Rossi, President­

elect of the American Sociological 
Association and an original leader of 
the American feminist movcmcm, 
presented a lecture entitled 
"Feminism and Politics: A Panel 
Analysis of the First National 
Women's Conference" Thursday 
evening in the library lounge. 
Rossi, a 1978 member of Presi­

dent Carter's Commission for the In­
ternational Year of the Woman, 
faced the difficult task of "wearing 
two hats" in making the indepen­
dant study. She made great strides to 
nullify any effect ofher political con­
victions upon her research. 
The goal of the study was to measure the elffect of the 1978 Na­tional Women's Conference upon the womens political aspirations, beliefs, and the focus of their ac­tivity. Rossi utilized a panel survey, which presents the bject subject with an identical questionairc before and after the event, in compiling her data. She excluded in­formation gathered at the actual event from her findings because the emotional nature of the convention caused many delegates to "behave out ofcharacter." 
Rossi discovered "an overall negative impact of the convention upon the political aspirations of the delegate body." The ·aspirations of the majority of the women, "a politi­cally astute group with an average age of 42," remained unchanged. Of the remainder, however, 31/ ex­perienced a decrease in aspirations while only 15/ came out of the con­vention with an increase in political aspirations. 
"The negative impact of the con­vention was extremely disappoint­ing. But in retrospect, much ot my optimism was simply political wish­ful thinking," admitted Rossi. The dominating characters of a few su­perstar type leaders, the absence of real opportunity for leadership posi­tions, and the development of bitter cleavages within the delegation may have "depressed the personal con­t1dence" of many members. 
Rossi also found that the basic cleavage between the pro and anti­forces of the plan, a composition of 25 resolutions to be voted upon, was only intensified by the convention. Although the groups experienced "fleeting unity in a few major dramatic events" such as a resolu­tion espousing minority rights, the overall effect was a "sharpening of the underlying differenes." 
The most polarizing issue was that of abortion. The Reproductive Freedom Resolution was accom­panied by frantic demonstrations by each side. "One member was so carried away with frenzy" that she thought the crowd was chanting "crucify" rather than "choice" during a pro-planners demonstra­tion, said Rossi. 
Rossi also found that the focus of the women's political activity was determined mostly by cir­cumstances and were not much changed by the convcntion."Gendcr politics were described by Rossi as those "dealing with the issue of women's status in major in­stitutons." They were preferred by women who were generally older and more conservative than the average, married, and members of established organizations. 
UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS M.B.A. 
Students of All Majors and Fields Invited 
Come to our meetings to hear about our MB and PhD Programs and to ask any questions about the curriculum, admission,financial aid, and career opportunities available in the following fields of management: 
Finance  Health Administration  
Economics  Public and NonProfit  
Marketing  Humor Resources  
Accounting Policy  Management Science General Management  

Friday, November 20 Contact Placement Bureau for sign ups. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Falling farm exports helped expand the na­tion's trade deficit to $6.99 billion in the second quarter, according to one of the several ways the govern­ment computes US. trade perfor­mance, the Commerce Department reported yesterday. 
The deficit, as computed on a "balance of payments" basis, had been 54.6 billion for the first quar­ter. 
Another version of the trade balance, released last week, showed a deficit of just over S I 0 billion for the April-June quarter. That version is more widely publicized than Wed­ncsday's, which excludes military trade and also excludes some in­surance and freight costs for im­ports. 
The new report said agricultural exports declined I 5 percent to Sl0.84 billion in the quarter. Volume of farm exports was down about 10 percent, but lower prices accounted for about one-third ofthe overall drop, it said. 
"The decline followed an excep­tionally strong first quarter and was concentrated in reduced grain and soybean exports to the Soviet Union and Latin America," the report said. 
Non-agricultural exports in­creased about 2 percent to S49.54 billion. On the import side, the value of 

Jailing farm exports expand the nations trade deficit ' 
imported oil rose about 2 percent to S21.2 billion, with the increase more than accounted for by higher prices, the new report said. 
Imports other than oil rose about 3 percent to $46.2 billion. 

In all, the report showed imports increased 2. 5 percent to S6 7.4 bil­lion in the quarter, while exports fell 
1.2 percent to S60.4 billion. 


---­~--­ 
The Observer  Monday, November 16, 1981 - page 6  

After murder Violence escalates in Ireland 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland (AP) liamcnt member ){obcrt Bradford. Th t e killings -came 12 hours after -Britain's top official in Northern "Keep calm," Prior said after guerrillas blew up the unoccupied Ireland appealed to angry Protes­conferring with security chiefs at London home of British Attorney tants yesterday not to avenge the Stormont Castle, the British head­General Sir Michael Havers. IRA's assassination of a Protestant quarters here. "I beg the people of Speaking yesterday from the pul­member of Parliament. But hardline Northern Ireland to leave it to the pit of his Belfast church, Paisley Protestant leader Rev. Ian Paisley police and army. Don't take things called for a mass demonstration called for a "day of action" next into your hands." Nov. 23. 
week. Bradford, 40, was shot to death by "It is going to be Ulster's day of three masked Irish Republican Army action," he said without elaboration. 
James Prior, Britain's Northern gunmen who pushed past teen-age Ireland secretary, appealed for calm dancers at a community center Paisley, also a member of the hours after a Catholic youth was where Bradford held meetings with British Parliament, said British shot near his home in what relatives his constituents. The gunmen also Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher called a Protestant reprisal slaying killed a caretaker. The IRA later was "going to be taught a lesson." for the fatal shootingSaturday ofPar-claimed responsibility. "The people we have to deal with 
arc the representatives of a treac­herous government ..... .These are the men who are based in Ulster to
Top British official 
destroy us. These are the men against whom we must struggle and we must place our might," he said.

pleads for Irish peace 
Legislator Harold McCusker, an­other of the 12 members of Parlia­

BELFAST, Northern Ireland (AP) conferring with security chiefs at ment from the province, called -Britain's top official in Northern Stormont Castle, the British head­Sunday for a province-wide, one­Ireland appealed to angry Protes­quarters here. "I beg the people of hour work stoppage during Brad­tants yesterday not to avenge the Northern Ireland to leave it to the ford's funeral Tuesday. IRA's assassination of a Protestant police and army. Don't take things McCusker blamed the latest wave member of Parliament. But hardline into your hands." of IRA attacks on London's recent Protestant leader Rev. Ian Paisley Bradford, 40, was shot to death by announcement to set up a council called for a "day of action" next three masked Irish Republican Army with the Irish Republic for solving week. gunmen who pushed past teen-age the strife in Northern Ireland. 
James Prior, Britain's Northern dancers at a community center "Far from wooing the terrorists, it Ireland secretary, appealed for calm where Bradford held meetings with is motivating them," he said in a hours after a Catholic youth was his constituents. The gunmen also radio interview. "They think they shot near his home in what relatives killed a caretaker. The IRA later are winning." called a Protestant reprisal slaying claimed responsibility. The mostly Catholic IRA is fight­for the fatal shootingSaturday ofPar­The killings came 12 hours after ing to reunite Northern Ireland with liament member Robert Bradford. guerrillas blew up the unoccupied the neighboring Irish Republic, also 
"Keep calm," Prior said after London home of British Attorney mainly Catholic, after 60 years of General Sir Michael Havers. partition. Northern Ireland, settled Speaking yesterday from the pul­by English and Scots, is dominated pit of his Belfast church, Paisley by pro-British Protestants. The called for a mass demonstration province's Catholic minority alleges
• • . Focus 

Nov. 23. widespread discrimination. "It is going to be Ulster's day of 
In Dublin, Irish Prime Minister action," he said without elaboration. 

Garret FitzGerald said no IRA actionghost in some time now, tho\lgh Paisley, also a member of the would alter "the determination of

more than a few people have British Parliament, said British ly closed in 1976 because of pocr apocrypha in the 1920's told of a 
our government and the Britishclaimed that they have seen and Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher government to carry on with our ef­wiring and weak supporting under "trumpet tooting, paper shuffling heard the ghost on late night romps was "going to be taught a lesson." 

forts to find a solution to thethe stage and balcony, has seen more ghost with a flair for riding through the Hall. 

use in the past few years. The Notre transparent horses." Some claim that 
problem we face." Dame Marching Band, the Depart· the ghost is that of George Gipp, th The Hall's 1OOth anniversary will Witnesses sajd the youth killed
Warning siren 
ment of Communication and famous Notre Dame All-American be marked by performance of the early Sunday, Thomas McAnulty, 18, 
Theater, and the ND/SMC Theater who supposedly once lived in Wash· 19th century comedy "The Inspec­screamed, "Please don't shoot me," all have their headquarters in Wash­ington Hall. Legend has it that "the tor General", a high-spirited Russian set to scream as two gunmen on a motorcyle ington Hall. Currently, the Gipp" slept on the steps of the Hall satire of official corruption and killed him as he walked home from a auditorium is being used for large the cold night before he became human folly. The play opened Friday bar in a Catholic enclave in East Bel­
A Tornado Warning Siren has lectures with the upper floors being stricken with strep throat in 1920. the 13th with performances on the fast.
been incorporated into both the St. joseph County Civil Defense system utilized as office space. However, No one has reported seeing the 19th, 20th, and 21st. 
The motorcyclists cornered himand the National Weather Alerteven though problems like wiring and one shot him in the head, whileService. The present system, using

and weak supports have been University security squad cars, will 
the other said, "put another one into

addressed, the building is still very 
Unemployment may rise, 
him, he's not dead yet," Press As­be discontinued.

much in need ofrepair. Sight lines to sociation, the British domestic newsThe system will be tested on the
the stage arc bad. This problem is first and third Thursdays of each 
agency, quoted unidentified wit·compounded by the fact that seating nesses as saying. 

administration claims 
month. The first test is scheduled for
is incredibly cramped. A S2.5 million major renovation WASHINGTON (AP) -U.S. un­new tax increases should be con­Thursday, Dec. 3, 1981. "Thomas was not involved in any­The system will activate the siren thing. It was just a random killing,"
project for Washington Hall was employment may return to a post­sidered in dealing with budget 
atop the North Dining Hall. For Tor­
propsed in 1976 by father World War II peak of 9 percent deficits, and that Reagan's tax cuts cousin Elizabeth Dorian said. "He 
nadoes, the siren will isue a steady
Burtcharell, who wished to see the was shot because he was a Catholic
before President Reagan's policies must be bolstered by budget cuts for 
hall restored to its original condi­tone for three to five minutes. and because ofthe Bradford killing." 
start working to produce vigorous his program to work. tion. The proposal, which included economic growth, the chairman of changes in the stage's floor and the President's Council ofEconomic Wcidenbaum, who was inter­
design, electrical construction, im­Advisers said Sunday. viewed on CBS network's "Face the provements in the auditorium's The official, Murray Wcidenbaum, Nation," said Reagan's program "is acoustics and a general updating to also indicated the administration already working," an apparent 
meet present day building codes, may have to consider new tax in­reference to a falling inflation rate. primarily those requiring fire resis­creases for 1983 and 1984 to limit But the short-term tradeoff is the tant construction, was never carried swelling budget deficits. current recession and rising un­out because oflack offunds. Weidenbaum declared his total employment, he said. Anew proposal for renovating the confidence in the Reagan economic building will be submitted to the Lil­program when asked about the skep­"An unfortunate consequence of ly Foundation in several weeks. The ticism expressed by budget director winding down the inflation that had S200,000 grant which is offered by David A. Stockman in a magazine ar­beset the economy for decades is 
the Lilly foundation to Universities ticle released last week. the current recession, and, yes, I ex­in Indiana for improvements in Stockman submitted . his resigna­pect the current unemployment deferred maintenance will be added tion to the president because of rate unfortunately to continue to 
to the S600,000 the University will those remarks, but Reagan decided rise during the recession ...well be spending. The plans, which are to keep him on the job after Stock­above 8 percent," he said in his most nothing near the magnitude ofthose man expressed total faith in Reagan's bearish forecast yet. 
of the 1976 proposal, include tuck­program. 
pointing, waterproofing, the installa­Weidenbaum acknowledged yes­Asked if the jobless rate could tion ofnew lighting, new seating and terday he held some of the same climb to the 9 percent peak of the remodeling of classroom space. reservations that Stockman 1975 recession, he replied: "it
f 
Along with the proposal for Wash­expressed in the magazine article, could, conceivably." ington Hall, another proposal total­which was based on a series ofipter­ing $1.2 million will be submitted views over the past 11 months. Unemployment surged from a for the complete renovation of the 
Weidenbaum said that in summertime level of 7.3 percent to
t 
' Old Chemistry Building. retrospect, economicearlier 8 percent in October, leaving 8. 5 
One of the interesting stories forecasts by the administration were million Americans out of work. A about Washington Hall involves the "optimistic." He suggested that new rise to 9 percent would mean anoth· mysterious ghost which has repor-savings in the defense budget and er I million people unemployed. 


Monday, November 16, 1981 -page 7 
Eeatures 
Hayes kicks off Lecture Series 
continued to live a full life even into U.S. cities before closed in 1939. her eighties, shc felt that the Considered by many her most bril­
H 
clcn Hayes, reigning Queen of 
the Amt:rican Stage was quest 
spt.·akt:r last Friday at the Ccntt:r for "sweeping away" of today's elderly liant role, Miss Hayes was awarded the League of New York Medal for 
Continual Education. inaugurating into nursing homes simply to get the Distinguished American Women them out of the way is a tragic thing. the most distinguised performance Lecture Series. Miss Hayes spoke Recalling the happy memories ofher ofthe year 19 36. Miss Hayes has also had roles in
fondly ofher years in the American own grandmother, she expressed many Hollywood productions, in
tht:atre, charming the audience with concern in the fact that many young people don't hac grandparents "Anasasia" in 1956 and "Airport" in
her graciousness, modesty and humor. anymore to help them through the 1971 for which she won another early years as she herself did. Miss Academy Award. Hayes has done two documentaries In addition to her own career,
By Vic Sciulli 
on the subject ofthe elderly in our Miss Hayes has been active in several society. The first, "Miles To Go organizations, including the Nation­One of the most fascinating parts Before I Sleep" won a Peabody al Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, 
ofMiss Hayes' lecture was her recol· The American National Theatre
award, the highest award given in lection of the night she cxpcrienced Academy, and the American Theatre
television. The second, "No Place "the total transcendant joy of total Wing. In 1979, Miss Hayes was the
Like Home", which will be airt:d interpretation." Tht: momentous oc· 
tonight is a statement "against the recipient of the Laetare Medal, an casion occurcd during a pcrfor· practice ofsweeping the elderly into award given by the University of mance of"Mary ofScotland" in nursing homes as means for long Notre Dame each year since 1893 to 
Cincinnati. "From the time Ientered term care will be discussed. 
Outstanding American Catholics.
the theatre, something strange hap­The 81-year-old actress who Miss Hayes spoke very fondly of
pt:ncd. What I think happened was played her first role as Prince her years in theatre and the happy
that good old Catholic Mary got so Charles in "The Royal Family" more memories she has ofthem. She did
tirt:d ofme doing a bad job ofher lift: than 75 years ago has delighted and not, however, have similar feelings 
Child has much to bear, 
for two and a half years that she captivated audiences with her per­
for the state oftoday's theatre, citing
came down from heaven and tool formances. A maJor role in "The 
the amount of"nihilism, pornog­
over that performance." The prodigal Husband" with actorJohn 
raphy, violence, and despair"
audience was silent after the perfor­Drew put her on tour at the age of 
including British media 
present in so much ofthe material.
mance but as she was laving the 14. Soon came a succession ofroles 
The fact that some ofthe most suc­
theatre that cvening, the cntire for the young actress, including per­
audience was waiting for her in the formances in "Pollyanna", "Penrod", cessful Broadway shows of the past The poor kid." That's alii could think when l heard the news that alley and applauded her as she year are revivals ofolder Broadway Prince Charles and Princess Diana are going to have a baby. It's 
"Dear Brutus", "To The Ladies", plays that failed disturbed the just painful to consider what that child has before him or her for a 
walked back to her hotel. "Cicoptra", "Coquette", and in Disappointed by the rebellious "What Every Woman Knows." actress. "Encouragement, good life. 
playwrights, and discipline arc es­Most ofus grow up looking over the world to sec what we want toand nonchalant attitude ofstudents The actress married playwright sentialto reverse this trend," she do in it. Depending on what kind ofpeople we are, we either drift
ti-om the Sixties, Miss Hayes spoke Charles MacArthur in 1928 and gave 
said. along where the current takes us in life or make plans and head
with great pride and optismism of birth to her daughter Mary in 1930. 
purposefully in one direction. W c end up where we belongor where 
In her acceptance speech of the 
we don't belong, depending some on luck and Jots on our own 
Laetare Medal at the 1979 Com­
ability or inability. The son or daughter ofthe future King ofEngland mencement Exercises here, Miss will have no such freedom to succeed orfail. This kid's life is already Hayes took the opporunity to use all laid out and we're all going to know his every move. It's likt• Viola's speech from Shakespeare's committinga human being to live as though caged for public exhibi­"Twelfth Night" as her way of 
tion in a zoo. 
expressing her love for Notre Dame. 
The worst British 
I'd make me a willow cabin at 

newspapers are the worst 
yourgate I andfall upon my soul 
Andy Rooney
newspapers in the world. 
within the house I and sing aloud 
They make our bad the younger generation of today. She then returned to the stage with even in the dead ofnight I Halloo 
newspapers look like bad ''I'm so grateful that I've lived long roles in "Mr. Gilhooley", "Petticoat your name to the reverberent hills 
journalism amateurs. The Na-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
enough to see this group ofyoung Influence", and "Mary ofScotland." and make the gossips ofthe air cry tiona! Enquirer looks staid, people. We have a very solid group In 1931, she received the Acadmey out, Notre Dame! 
stuffy and reliable compared to half a dozen mass-circulation dailies 
of right thinking, deep thinking, Award for her performance in "The In addition to the inaugeration of 
in London, and those are the papers that will be carrying the stories humorous, intelligent youngpeople. Sin of Madelon Claudet." the Distinguished American Women 
about the royal child. From the moment that kid is born, the trashy
I think the human race is alright!" Lecture Series, Friday also marked London papers will assign people to hound the child every moment 
In a press conference after her ln 1935, "Victoria Regina" the dedication of the Pasquerilla ofhis life. The child will be photographed with long lenses from hid­
lecture, Miss Hayes spoke very deep­opened in Baltimore and soon after Halls and the first public celebration 
den cameras and written about daily. The poor thing will never have ly about her concern for the plight of moved to New York where it ran for for a decade ofcoeducation at Notre 
a really private moment. There were probably reporters staring at today's elderly. As someone who has 123 weeks. The play then toured 43 Dame. 
the darkened castle window when Charles and Diana conceived the child. 
At Snite Would you trade what you've got to be a prince or princess in the British royal family? I like Prince Charles a lot and Princess Diana seemsfine but they can have what they are. As a matter offact, it's dit: 
ficult for me to understand why so many people want fame or recognition ofany kind. It's assumed that fame is what everyone is af­
Photo expos express fine art 
way to imitate them. Many of the might stem from the idea many hold ter. one's breath when allfaculties early photographers were painters, that "just" taking pictures is some­
T
o take photographs is to hold 
Each one of us hopes to be good enough at something so that our 
converge in theface offleeting and they used photographs as thing anyone can do -look at Aunt 
name comes to the attention ofour neighbors and perhaps even to 
rea/i~y. It is at that moment that models to work from. Many artists Sophie's pictures of Europe. To that some ofthe strangers in our town. This seems like a proper enoughmasteri11g an image becomes a today do the same thing. The gum­line ofthinking, I would say: Most kind ofambition for all ofus to have, but the kind of fame we sec so 
great physi<.·al and intellectualjoy. bichromate process, one ofthe most people can write, but there is but 
much ofis false. Too often fame doesn't have anything to do with -Henri Cartier-Bresson 
popular early methods was favored one Shakespeare, one Faulkner, one ability or with any contribution the individual has made to society.
partially because of the ease with Dante. It is what the writer docs Too often the really important people are unknown and the peoplePresently, two shoV~-s in the Snite which it could be manipulated to with the words, not the technique of whose reputations have been made out ofwhippcd cream or egg
Museum arc dedicated to photog­look like painting or graphics. The writing them that makes him great. 
whites are familiar to all ofus. Everyone knows Elizabeth Taylor, but 
raphy: Life: the First Decade_~nd gum process allowed so much Just so with the photographer. 
who remembers or would recognize Paul Berg, the 1980 Nobel
manipulation that the texture of Cartier-Bresson says: Prize winner for chemistry?
itflllitf&.­brush strokes or etched lines could "Photography appears to be an be added to further a photo's easy activity: in fact it is a varied and The funny thing about fame is that, while almost all of us would
Angelo Adamson 
resemblance to another art form. ambiguous procession whkh the like to have it, those who succeed in getting it almost always start Two photographers, Frederick H. only common denominator among trying to avoid what it brings to them. The movie star who has Evans and Sadakichi Hartmann its practitioners is their instrument." worked all his life to get his name in lights sneaks out back doors and
The Art Gallery 
wrote essays, in 1900 and 1904, Cartier-Bresson, who Is walks down the street wearing dark glasses and a hat pulled down rcspcctively, attacking this represented in the Highlights ex­over his face so he won't be recognized. The great American novelist Highlightsfrom the Photography manipulation and espousing pure or hibit, might be considered the 
holes up somewhere in New England, hoping no one will find out 
Collection. These two shows are straight photography as superior. supreme snapshooter. He originated where he's hiding. For one thing, he doesn't want to be bothered evidence of the ever growing They believed, as many do today, the idea ofthe "decisive moment," with fame because he's busy writing a new novel that will make him popularity ofthc art ofphotography. that a photographic print should where he waits until all the elements more famous than ever, he hopcs. 
The Highlights exhibit was most look like a photographic print. of reality line up and he trips the interesting to me because it indi­What a photographic print looks shutter at the one perfect instant. It There are a lot ofdrawbacks to. being famous in a popular sense. cates that the Snite is developing like, however, is a question that is is what he does with the technique The most serious, I suppose, is the necessity fame imposes upon a 
collections of what is a relatively still being raised, although the con­and not the technique itselfthat person to live his or her life the way other pcople expect them to live new medium. (Photography began cept ofstraight, or realistic photog­makes Cartier-Bresson legendary. it. The famous person always has to keep in mind how what he does aruund 1839.) raphy is now accepted. Prints in At any rate, I highly recommend will strike the public, because he can be darn sure the public wlll 
There was a time, however, in its modern times are still manipulated, the two photography exhibitions in hear about it. That's what this kid of Prince Charles and Princess beginnings, that photography was however, as many artists today think the Snite, whether you are a budding Diana will be up against. lfl were in their jodhpurs, I'd give some not considered a true, or at least that the only frontiers in photog­Cartier-Bresson or a Kodak ln­serious thought to offering the child up for adoption so he could Jive unique art form. Photos were mere­raphy are in technical explorations. stamatic Sunday shooter. The a life ofblessed anonymity. ly an aid for the other arts or an easy This idea oftechnical wizardry as art images, the art, make it worthwhile. 

We have a very solid group ofright thinking, deep thinking, humorous, intelligent young people. I think the human race is alright!' 

----~----­


..~--------------------~-------------------------·------~~~ The Observer will accept classtfieds Mon­day through Fnday, 10 a.m. to 430 p.m. However. classifieds to appear tn the next tssue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid. Classifieds etther in person or through the mail. 
anachronism: something that ts out of PAUL SCOFIELD as KING LEAR ­Lost: a Tl-55 calculator and 2 notebooks Need nde to D.C. for Thanksgtvtng break. Need a nde to RHODE ISLAND area for place wtth respect to time. Ex: A nfle is an 
Engineering Auditorium-Monday, Nov.
NOTICES tn the AB line of North Dtning Hall. If found. Stop. Room-mate needs nde to Mil· Thanksgiving, can leave Tues PM. Share anachrontsm in an lncan temple. 16. at 7 and 10 p.m.-only $11 please call Mike at 8657. waukee. Stop If you're gotng etther way. usual. call Paul 8626/8604 stop first and call us~ Stop. Then call1158. 
My parents need Penn State GA's~ 
Experienced typtst will do typing. Call FOUND GOLD NECKLACE ON SOUTH Stop. Now go. Stop. Need nde to North Jersey for break. Can Please call Steve at 8900. 
287-5162.
USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED . 

QUAD NITE OF 11/6 CALL 3546 TO leave on Monday 11123. Call Michael SAT. SUN. 9-7. CASPERSON. 1303 
233-2969. T J Conley. Happy 20th birthday to the BUCHANAN RD . NILES. 
IDENTIFY NEED RIDE TO COLUMBUS. OHIO FOR 
Hoy Kate,THANKSGIVING BREAK. CAN LEAVE 
best friend and greatest listener a sister Cleveland IS a plum and you're too 
LOST: 1 NEW GREEN NOTRE DAME AillYTIME. WILL SHARE USUAL CALL ~ L~~~ly ST PAUL. MiNNESOTA is calling could have! Love. Kathy queer for anythtng. Happy 19th Birthday The Society for Creative Anachronism is JACKET W/GOLD LETTERING ON MIKE x8691 me .. but I hqve no nde for Turkey Day!l 
-WE LOVE YOU !I

comtng to lhts campus. Watch for it!!I HELP MEl I NEED A RIDE TO IN­
BACK. SIZE MEDIUM BOUGHT IN N.D. Will share usual. X 3445, ask for Aileen. 
DIANAPOLIS FOR TWO PEOPLE. CALL Kan. Carrie, Lesliann, Barb, Aga. & RogerBOOKSTORE. LOST WEDNESDAY. Need ride to Conn/NY area for T ·Givtng. 
LECTURE: 3258. P.S. She's not in the Dogbook, guys. but 
NOV. t 1. BETWEEN 5 AND 6 P M IN Share usual. Call Brian at 3378. 
she's really cute. X4570 Dr. Steven Taylor SOUTH DINING HALL MAY HAVE 

From the Center on Human Policy at FAT GIRLS UNITE! ..................-. .... 
BEEN MISTAKEN FOR YOUR OWN. Need nde to Grand Raptds (Aqutnas Col­
HODE IT! HODE ITt HODE IT! HODE IT! PLEASE CHECK. CALLJULLE AT 3857 lege) 11/2p to leave after I 2:30pm~ CallSyracuse Untversity Speaktng on: THE Join the League of Fat Wha' chu be talktn' 'bout? 
COMMUNITY IMPERATIVE· The Right Pat at 3384. 

of All Developmentally Dtsabled Persons ROOMMATE CALLING YOU BLOW·
LOST: Canon Camera Saturday 11/7 in FOR SALE 
j 

SHOW YOUR LADY YOU CAREto Live in the Community. Wednesday FISH?
victntty of CCE. Bridget's, King's Cellar RIDE NEEDED TO ATLANTA FOR BEFORE THE CHRISTMAS BREAKNov~ t 8 at Noon in the Law School, Room Call the Fat Girl's Hotline -8960~
Call287-1705 if found please. Thanks. THANKSGIVING -CAN LEAVE MON·
101 (Sponsored by League of Fat) WITH A MONTH OF FLOWERS. A BOU­
DAY NIGHT CALL LISA 41-4679. 
QUET OF FLOWERS EVERY WEDNES· LOST: A BROWN EYEGLASS CASE Half fare coupons on Republic to Flonda
GOTTA CRUSH ON YOU GIGANTIC PODS FROM OUTER DAY FOR 4 WEEKS~.~ DELIVERED!II 
CONTAINING GLASSES AND A CON· Needed·A RIDE or RIDERS to DETROIT 233·6793 SPACE/ Need Penn State Tix for food/2 WEDNESDAYS FLOWERS 289·121 1. 
TACT LENSE CASE MIGHT HAVE on FRI Nov. 20 a.m.· Please Call Cammy tix··Ga'sorStudentCall Pod No.1 X1947BEEN LOST IN NIEUWLAND SCI. X4034 (SMC) LIEDERHOSEN-What are they? Why do BLDG. I~ FOUND. CALL 1171. 
TO RICK 'SOMETHING FAR DIF· Krauts make them? What is their function NEED A RIDE TO NORTH JERSEY TICKETS FERENT' MCBRIEN: HAPPY 13TH on our campus? What keeps you from
LOST/FOUND 

LOST: A White Gold Pearl Necklace. Has FRIDAY. NOV 20 RIGHT OFF ROUTE BIRTHDAY, YOUNGER SIBLING! JUST chafing in them in the hot weather? 
Great ,,;mental Value! BIG REWARD 80 (DENVILLE). CAN LEAVE AT 2:00 TWO MORE YEARS TO DRIVER'S ED Should bagptpes or some GUtness ac­if faun 1843. P.M~ CALL MIKE AT 1"181. WILL SHARE 
LOST: One Grey Suitcoat at the (THE WORLD MAY CONSIDER ITSELF company them? Who is asking all these 
THE USUAL Penn St ticket wanted. Please call Donna 
PASQUERILLA WEST-MORRISSEY WARNED)! REGARDS, YOUR LOVING questions? Why are you answering
Lost· T; ~urse wtth red wallet instde You at6771
FORMAL Fnday Evening. If you picked it SISTERS. 'ALTOGETHER' AND them? Is nothing sacred??! I ' 
can kee,, the money, but please return the need nde to st. louis 11/25. will share 
up by mistake please call John at X3430 'COMPLETELy·
wallet. wtth the pictures and driver's usual. call tim 1574 after 10:30 Need ttx for Penn State. Call Stan. 3006 or Second floor Cavanaugh requests the license to SMC security • No questions 3008.
LOST! Pair of gold framed glasses tn ERRATUM honor of your presence at THE OFFICIAL asked!! Hltttng the Promtsed Land for Thanksgiv­
brown case marked Rogers Optical If THE THANKSGIVING PITTSBURGH ND/SMC RECEPTION FOR THE WED­
ing? 2 Desperate gtrls need a ride to North PENN STATE GA's needed. Will PAY top 
DING OF found call Mtke at 288-3108. CLUB BUSES WILL BE LEAVING

FOlJND C~l~ul~t~~ in Nteuwland Jersey-will pay usual. Call Apnl or $. Call287·6035 and ask for JOHN NOTRE DAME ON WEDNESDAY. LAURA BALDWIN and LUCAS Sctence~ ldenttfy type and locatton to Connne any ttme:41-5623. 
LOST: Pearl & gold nng at HC/Badin for­NOVEMBER 25 AT 1:00 P.M. FROM LORENZO SPENCER 
clatm. Call Alex at 3258~ mustsell2 mtamtga. call1574 after 10:30 
mal in Women's room~ Highest senttmen­THE CCE~ THEY WILL RETURN TO PLACE: Cavanaugh Hall Section 2·A 
NEED RIDE TO PENN STATE
tal value. Please call Sue at 6955~ NOTRE DAME FROM THE PITTS­TIME. Three o'clock p.m. Tuesday.
DESPERATELY FOR GAME CALL HELP! I NEED PENN ST TIX. PLEASE November 17 BURGH GREYHOUND TERMINAL ONSTEVE 8762 OR 8761 
CALL BRIAN AT 1777. 
Lost: A Set of 4 keys. perhaps tn the SUNDAY. NOVEMBER 29 AT 1.00 PM DRESS: Formal. please 
FOR RENT

vicinity of the laundry room at Badm Hall RSVP.Call t411 or 1418 
Need nde to PENN STATE GAME. Will 
NEED PENN STATE TIX NOWI2 GA's or share expenses Please call Dan at 1655. student tickets/ CALL JOHN AT X1947/ 
If fot!nd, Please call7695 ATTENTIONATTENTION -There are Rev Matthew M. Micelt, C.S.C .. Prestdtng 
Celebrant UGLY DUCKLING RENT A CAR. FROM still a limited amount of seats avatlable on 
Lost: back pack. tan and blue. Made by the THANKSGIVING PTTSBURGH
$7.95 A DAY & WEEKEND SPECIALS NEEDED 1 OR 2 RIDES TO NJ-NY FOR FOR SALE 4 LOWER ARENt\ ND BAS· 
WyEast, Inc. Call Vtnce X1238 CLUB BUS. THE BUSSES WILL LEAVE NEED RIDERS TO BALTIMORE AREA 
AVAILABLE CALL259·8459 THANKSGIVING. CALL CATHY 4672 KETBALL TICKETS~ CALL TIM 232-4257 
FOR THANKSGIVING CAN LEAVE LOST: One Gold Bracelet on Saturday I :00 FROM THE CCE AND RETURN TUESDAY (1 1/24). CALL CARL 3249 NOTRE DAME ON WED . NOV 25 AT 
Urgent; need one or two persons to sublet PETER FONDA, alias Chns Beem. needs
before or dunng the Georgta Tech game FROM PITTSBURGH ON SUNDAY NOV 
furntshed apl. $90 per month plus utilittes. ride to Henry Fonda's deathbed tn Omaha Need Penn State ttx~ Call Tom at 3349 or
Most likely lost on Green Field dunng the 29 AT~ I 00 FROM THE GREYGOUND FRANK IS GOD
stereo. full kttchen N.D. Apts. 289-4429 for Thanksgtvtng break. Call Peter at 3574 3361.
Dillon Hall tailgatter near the backstop TERMINAL DOWNTOWN. COST IS across from Sen1or Bar If found. Please $45.00 A ROUND TRIP AND $29 00 ONE WELCOME BACK STAN 
ROOMMATE WANTED-COMPLETELY ROLLING STONES TIX FOR SALE

call Michael233·2969. WAY. CALL BRIAN EICHENLAUB AT
RURNISHED APT BAR. KITCHEN. Struggling actor needs nde to OMAHA for CALL KEITH 3702 1581 BETWEEN 6-8 PM TO MAKE HEY PHIL FOUBERT DO YOU SLEEPCABLE TV -CALL DAVE AT 283·1169 • Thanksgtvtng break. Call Chns at 3574 
lost: A silver watch in the first floor RESERVATIONS. IN THAT VEST? SHOWER? 
RENT NEGOTIABLE -....
restroom tn O:Shag Thursday Nov. 6. If NEED AlOE TO PENN ST OR PITTS­

you happened to ptck 11 up please call THE ZAHM COFFEEHOUSE IS OPEN Hey Guys
MALE ROOMMATE WANTED FOR BURGH FOR PENN ST GAME CALL
X1820 EVERY THURSDAY FOR YOUR EXIS­What can I say? It was a fantastiC four
FURNISHED APARTMENT LEARY-8604 or 8626 TENTIAL PLEASURE. OFFERING THE days -lets face 11. I moosed you all. 
$1 10/MONTH UTILITIES PAID. 287­

LOST; WOMENS CLASS RING ON FINEST IN LIVE ENTERTAINMENT, Love always. 
PERSONALS
5469 CENTRAL OHIO RIDE BOARD -Will
WED. NOV. 5 AROUND THE ACC. TEN­COFFEE, TEA, HOMEMADE DONUTS, Uncle Ryan 
match those who need ndes wtlh those
NIS COURTS AND SOCCER FIELD. FREE POPCORN AND PAT GALLAG­P S Chnstmas carols at 1 a.m~? 
who need nders for Thanksgrvmg break.
SILVER. NAVY BLUE STONE.CDC INI· HER. COME DOWN AND SEE IF OUR
I 
WANTED 

Interested nders and drivers call Jamre at
TIALS ENGRAVED INSIDE PLEASE. IF PROFESSIONAL CONVER­You bel your peep!!! 
1292. 

GLENMARY HOME MISSIONERS 1~ 
YOUVE FOUND IT COULD YOU CALL SATIONALISTS ARE PAID ENOUGH. The Restless Shade of Moose Control 
Need nde to Cleveland for Thanksgtvtng week Chnstmas break serv1ce oppor­
CYNDIE AT 277·6256~ THANX 9-12 EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT,
Call John at 8450 NEED PENN STATE TIXS CALL JIM-tunity tn Appalachta ts Dec~26-31 or Dear Tense One 
ZAHM BASEMENT. 1742 January 2·8. If interested 1n th1s meamng­Cracks weren·t supposed to be develop 
LOST KEYS ON GREEN AND WHITE C SHAPED RING BETWEEN C2 LOT AND Need nde to and from Sagtnaw area at
RIDERS NEEDED FOR ful volunteer serv1ce expenence contact 1n the th1n ve11 unt1l spnng 
THANKSGIVING·· Desperately need nde to NJ/NYC area V S 0 .. 1 5 LaFortune X7308. Deadline Stgned.
LIBRARY. APPROX. 8 KEYS. PLEASE Thanksgtvtng Wtll share usual. Call
To Chtcago O'Hare, teavtng Wed. Nov. 25 for Thanksgtvtng break. Can leave Tues. for applicatiOns ts soon-Nov.23! Meet me by the Lake 
CALL IRENE 272·4453. Maryeva at 2915 
at 12:30pm/returntng Mon. Nov~ 30 or late 1\/24. Call Mtke at 1848 or 1650. 
P.S Are we expenencmg a meltdown? Sun. Nov. 29. Call Debbte at 2736. 
Ill /b,. I JhS<'rl'<'l" and lb<' .·lssuciatetl Pr,.ss 
Phil Batey claimed the highest individual honors for the Notre Dame wrestling team as they competed in the Michigan State Invitational Tournament over the weekend. The freshman from Cedar Springs, Mich. placed third in the 167-pound weight class. l 50-pound senior Brian Erard also reached the consolation finals, but had to forfeit his final match and settle for fourth place. joe and Pete Agostino, brothers from South Bend, finished sixth in their respective weight classes, 134-and 142-pounds. Freshman Shawn Maloney rounded out the Notre Dame placers by taking sixth at 190-pounds. The Irish, however, failed to place in the top five in the team standings. -The Observer 
The SMC Turkey Trot is scheduled for Monday, Nov. 23, at 4 p.m. The three-mile run is open to everyone in the Saint Mary's community. First, second and third place prizes will be presented in each of these three categories: students, male staff/faculty and female staff/faculty. Interested runners must regis­ter by bringing the S1 entry fee to the ,t\ngela Athletic Facility before Friday. For more information, contaCt Mr. Diilon at 4182 (SMC).­
The Observer 

The second of two clinics on officiating swim meets is scheduled for Thursday at the Rockne Memorial. The subject will be "Timing, Finish and Stroke Judging and Scoring." Interested swim­ming officials should report to Room 218 ofthe Rock at 7:15p.m. For more information, contact Coach t Dennis Stark ( 4580) between 4 and 8 p.m.-The Observer 
All SkiierS going on the Winter Park, Colo. trip in January must have their money in by Tuesday. Money should be paid to Barry Tharp ( 1 5 70 ), Sue Hull ( 1674) or Nancy Sheft ( 4996 SMC). ­The Observer 
The ND windsurfing club will be holding an 
organizational meeting on Thursday at 7:30p.m. in the Grace pit. All are welcome. All those who bought shirts must attend. Topics will include a trip to Florida, lessons, and the viewing of a short promo­tional film on Windsurfing in Hawaii. Refreshments will be served afterward for those who can stay. The WIND does exist, so please attend if you're interested. For more information, call Tim at I 782. 
-The Observer 

Monday, November 16, 1981 -page 8 
continuedfrom page 10 

Saturday's Game Notre Dame 0 4 2-6 Western Michigan 2 0 Q--2 
FIRST PERIOD -Sconng: WM Bailey (Fitzpatrick). 11 :33; WM -Scurfield (Fitzpatnck. Batley), PPG, 18:31~ Penalttes: WM -Murphy (holding, mtnor). 3:33; ND -Htggins (Roughtng. mtnor), 4:58: WM-Calder (Roughing. mtnor), 4:58; WM-T.Oison (Interference. minor). 8:18; ND­Regan (Charging, minor), 16:44 
SECOND PERIOD -Scoring: ND -Schmidt (Perry. Bowte). 3:26; ND -Parsons (Logan, Schmtdt), 13:31. ND-Poulin (Rothstein. Perry), 14:47; ND -Bowte (Unasssted). SHG. 17:19. Penalttes: ND -Higgtns (Hit after whistle. minor). 
4:19: ND-Brown (Roughtng.-minor). 4:54: WM­Batley (Roughtng. minor). 4:54; ND -Bonadio (Hooktng. minor), 7:23: ND -Bonadio (Roughtng. minor), 11 :32; WM -J~Oison (Roughing, minor), 
11:32: ND-Brown (Cross-checktng. minor). 15:28; ND-Rothstetn (Roughtng. minor), 17:03; WM­Johnston (Roughtng. minor). t 7:03; ND -Schmtdl (Tripping, minor), 17:45: WM -Bench minor RUSHING-Notre Dame: Carter 27-156; Ktel3· 
Net Yards Passing  1tO  61  
Passes camp-attempted  8·17·  6·18­ 
Had tnlercepted  0  0  
Total Net Yards  386  227  
Fumbles-lost  3-1  2·2  
Penalties-yards  7-55  4·26  
Punts-average  6-38  7·33  
Individual Leaders  

42. Bell 6·27; Moriarty 4·15; Sweeney 3-16. Smith 1-20; Brooks 1-12; Howard 1-minus 12. Air Force: Kershner 13-63; Louthan 13-23; Heath 11·49: An· tome 6-10; Grant 10·30; Kirby 1·3; Dixon 1-0; Mtller l·mtnus 12~ 
PASSING-Notre Dame: Ktel5·13·1, 66: Koegel 3·3·0. 44; Atr Force: Louthan 4-13-1, 44; Antotne 2-4­0. 20; Miller 0-1·0. O; 
RECEIVING -Notre Dame: Bell 3-49; Hunter 2· 45; Carter 2·1·, Howard 1·15; Atr Force: Ctanctola 2-29; Ktrby 2-26; Grant 1·4; Heath 1·2; 
Attendance-36.800 
Yesterday's Results Pittsburgh 34. Atlanta 20 Cincinnatt24. Los Angeles 10 Mtnnesota 20. New Orleans 1 0 N.Y. Jets 17. New England6 Oakland 33, Mtami 1 7 Phtladelphta 38. Baltimore 13 Detrott 27. Dallas 24 Denver 24. Tampa Bay 7 Kansas Ctty 23. Houston 10 St. Louts 24. Buffalo 0 Green Bay 21, Chtcago 17. Washington 30, N.Y. Giants 27. OT 

• Hoops 
(Johannesen). 19:1 7~ THIRD PERIOD -Scoring: ND -Perry continuedfrom page 12 playing roughly half the game, and (Unassisted), 5:18: ND-Rothstetn (Poulin, Perry). 
Mark Kelly seeing four minutes of
12:34. Penalttes: ND -Higgtns (Tnpping. mtnor), 3:11; WM '---Murphy (Interference. minor). 6:59: ND stitution of the night for the Gold action. -Schmidt (Cross-checking. minor), 1 0:14; ND -came when freshman Dan Duff 
'Til tell you, the best part of this 
Higgins (Hooking. minor). 14:48; WM -Scurfield 
changed sides and replaced Mike game is the money we raised,"
(Tripping. minor). 1 4:56; ND -Reilly (Roughing. minor). 17:29: WM-Berthelsen (Roughtng. minor). Mitchell with seven minutes to play. Phelps said. "We got a lot ac­17:29. 
Paxson, Mitchell, Varner, Spencer complished, the people who came
Shots on Goal: Notre Dame 1 0 16 7-33 and Tom Sluby started for the Gold, to see us saw some good action, but Western Michigan 6 16 10-32 
while Cecil Rucker, Karl Love, Ron we raised some money for the Spe­
Goalies-Notre Dame. Launon. Western Michi­
gan, Healy Rowan, Duff and graduate assistant cial Olympics and the Neighbor­Attendance--2.552 Ed Hjerpe started for the Blue squad. hood Study Help Program. That's the 

The teams played the entire 25 most important thing." minutes without a time-out for con­sultation with Phelps, who The Irish will get another chance nevertheless barked signals from the to work out thier jitters in a game 
Notre Dame AirForce  Saturday's Game 7 7 0 0 0 0  21  35 7  bench. "We  were  very happy with the  situation take on  Friday night when they the Yougoslav National  
Scoring ND -Carter, 4-yard run (Oliver kick) ND-Carter. l·yard run (Oliver kick) AF-Kershner. 9-yard run (Pavlich kick) ND-Bell. 17-yard run (Oliver kick) ND-Monarty. 5-yard run (Oliver kick) ND-Brooks, 12-yard run (Oliver ktck)  way Mitchell, Paxson and Duff took charge on the court," Phelps said. "Duffis going to help us a lot before the season is over. He is very confi­dent on the floor, and really runs the  team, the Red Star Club of Belgrade. The team is composed of many of the players that won the gold medal at the 1980 Olympics in Moscow. The regular season opens in just  
Ftrstdowns Rushtng attempts  NO 18 46  AF 15 56  show." Phelps got mileage out of every  under two weeks, when Notre Dame takes on St. joseph's, Saturday, Nov.  
Net Yards Rushing  276  166  player last night, with Gary Grassey  28.  



The Observer -Sports "'tonday, November 16, 19H 1 page 9 
Semifinals decided 
Dillon trium.phs in interhall 
Hy MIKE GUENTHER 
Sfmrts \l"nter 
YestL·rday aftt·rnoon on Cartier Fidd, more than live hundred fans w.t"rt· treated to two do~e and excit­ing t(Jothall game:. a~ the lntcrhall li)()thall championship sL·mitinals were deddt·d. 
In tht· tirst game. the Big Red of Dillon llall camt· away with a 14-6 victory over thL' Hogs of lloly Cross. and in tht· second contest, the Off Campus team narrowly dekated (irace llall, 7·6. Tht· two winners will play each other in tht· finals Sun­day aftt·rnoon on Cartier Fidd. 
Thc first scrics ofthe first gamc set thc tempo ofthe game, as Holy Cross gave Dillon a big scare, moving right down the t1cld and mixing its plays well. The Dillon ddensc had not 
• • • leers 
continuedfrom page 12 
a ncar capacity crowd at the Munn Ice Arena, and thc <;,942 ~pectators on hand got more than their money's worth. Some inconsistent officiating fueled an already bois­terous crowd from beginning to end, hut oddly enough it was Notre Dame that was hurt most by pt·naltics. In all, the Irish were whistled off the icc I-; times, as opposed to the 12 penalties called on till' Spartans. 
Tht· Irish took a first period ad­
vantage  hy cpaitalizing  on  a  five  
minute  high  sticking  penalty  on  
.'ipartan  Kdly  Milkr  by  scoring  

twice, one hy Bjork and the other by 
lave Poulin. Those two goals offset an t·arlier powerplay goal by even­tual first star winner in the game <.iord Flegd. 
It was the second period that proved to he the downfall for the Irish onn· again. as Michigan State knotted the gamc on a powcrplay goal within the tirst two minutt·s, and went ahcad at the I';:29 mark on a goal hy Anastos. In the games the lri~h have lost this year, they have hn·n outscored I 1-0 in the second period. 
An in~urancc goal by David Taylor late in the third period sealed it up, as Notn· Dame could not turn the trick on the evt·r·prc~ent Scotl despite somt· prime opportunities. 
Smith'~ thought~ after the game n·nternl mustly on the penaltks, as it stTmed that hb team played the whole game short-handed. "Thc game was ruined hy pt·naltics, " Ia· mt·ntt·d Smith. "The oftkials had a diHit-ult time keeping things under 
1control, and we were playing a : physical gamt·." , It was, needless to say, a tough 
wc:ekend for the Irish squad. But 
t
they will lick their wounds and prepare to rebound for Ohio State:, , who will invade thc ACC for two 
1
gamc:s this weekend. The Irish beat and tied the Buckeyes earlier this year in Columbus, so the rematch should he an interesting affair. 
nn............................,,,,,,,,..n••ft'll'niU•••"r 
II Rocco's Hair Styling I• I f 
j 531 N. Michigan St.,! i
1 South Bend 
!i Phone-233-4957 
I i!­
t............................................................. 

been scored upon y<:t this ycar. and 
proved equal to the task, stopping 
the Hogs on a goal line stand after an 
apparent touchdown was called 
hack on a motioh penalty. 
The first Dillon play from 
scrimmage was intercepted, hut 
again the defense held, this time 
blocking a Holy Cross punt, and the 
oftcnse took over at mid-field. 
At this point, lightning struck the Hog's ddcnsL· as Dave: McMahon broke loose on a 45-yard touch· down around right t:nd. The two point covt·rsion pass to Bobby Wicke was good, and Dillon led 8-0. 
Holy Cross started over and put togc:tht:r two long passes, a late hit penalty, and an offsides call to get to the Dillon 4-yard line. On the next play, hallhack Joe Martin scored the tirst points of the year on the Dillon defense. Thc conversion failed, and the halfended with the score 8-6. 
The second half was marked by sloppy play and turnovers, and Dil­lon finally put the game away when William Dawahare interceptt:d at the 14-yard line and took it in for the score. This proved to be the coup­de-grace for the Hogs. 
Dillon coaches Marty Finan, Charlie Rice, and Greg Holscher expressed a desire to play the best 
WIT~ 

team jn the finals, and emphasized the fact that their tc:am had worked hard and desc:rved to be there. 
The second scmifinal was marked hy two very physical and hard­hitting teams, but the Off-Campus team came away with a 7-6 squeaker, as a point-aftc:r kick byJim Kinney proved to he the difference. 
The Off Campus score came: after tht·y recovered a fumble at the: 

<
Grace: 14-yard line. The Grace defense had held and forced a field goal attempt, hut in the process they roughed the kicker and gave Off Campus another chance:, and this time they 111adc: good on a Willie Sotis run of four yards around left end. 
Grace came out strong in the sc:cond half, and drove right downfield, aidt:d by a late: hit pc:nalty. Thc:y scored on a Quinlan pass reception, but the try for two points was no good, and the Off Campus defense thwarted thc:m the rc:st of the game, intercepting Grace in the endzone at one: point. 
Off Campus player-coach Matt Huffman said he was confident that his team could stay with Dillon, and was especially pleased with his ot: 
Dillon Hall defeated Ho~)' Cross yesterday, 14-6, to set up an
fensive linemen, saying that they 
interha/1 football championship next Sunday against Off­
were the: most valuable players. 
Campus, 7-6 winners overGmce Hall. (photo byjohn Macor) 
When you're out in front, you have to run a little faster than the rest. It takes aggressive and career-oriented Individuals to keep Anheuser­Busch on top. 
If you're looking for the opportunity to run out in front, talk with our recruiter when they come to your campus on Tuesday, December 8, 1981. 
CENTRAL ENGINEERING 
B.S.M.E. -M.E.'s will gain experience in such diverse fields as matertal handltng. equtpment layout. ptping system development. steam generation, compressed air systems, ventilation, heating and air conditioning. and high-speed bottle and can packaging. B.S.E.E.-E. E.'s can expect to be'worktng in such areas as electrical machine des1gn and applications. power distribution, sub-station layout as well as tndustrial and commercial lighting, electrical control circuits, and systems control. These positions are project oriented and allow you the opportunity to work on a project from conception to completion. 
CORPORATE MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROGRAM 
Opportunities exist in our Corporate Management Training Program for individuals with leadership ability and Engineering degrees. Under this one-year program, college graduates are exposed to all aspects of Anheuser-Busch Companies functions and man­agement. Time is spent in a "home" department, as well as in staff and line organizations to learn through observation and on-the-job practice. At the end ofthe year-long course, ... tratnees are asstgned to a management or professional \ pOSitiOn. · 
The Corporate Management Tratn1ng Program Includes class-\ ~ room tnstructton 1n management techntques. but emphasizes 

I

on-the-Job training. During the course of the program, trainees I are evaluated through their own written reports, individual conferences and supervisory performance evaluations. ~ ' 
I,

------------------------------------~~-'------~ -J 
Start with the best. step out with Anheuser-Busch. For more information and 
....... 

stgn-up, contact your placement office. ANHEUSER-BUSCH COMPANIES: Corporate Employment; College Recruiting; One Busch Place; St. Louis. Missouri 63118. An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F. 
,-.~"




·~ The Observer -Sports Monday, November 16, 1981-page 10 
Air Force prepared 
Colorado thin air catches Irish 

By KELLY SULLIVAN only reserve who looked good. prepared to play such a major role." Sports Writer Defensive end Kevin Griffith took But linebacker Crable was a blow to the knee, so the coaches prepared to reach a major milestone COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. replaced him with freshman Mike in his Notre Dame career. Going into Before Saturday's game, talk general­Gann just to be safe. Gann, a the game he needed just three ly centered around two questions -Colorado native, responedwith four tackles to break the all-time Irish would Notre Dame beat the point tackles in his first college stint. record. "I figured if I didn't get it spread, and would Blair Kiel be And when Rick Naylor bruised a today, I never would," he joked. healthy enough to play. Not many thigh in the first half, the Irish were "But during the game, I didn't even fans took the Air Force seriously. down to a third team linebacker. think about it because they were 
And for awhile, the Irish them­Naylor had been filling for Joe Rud­moving on us. Alii wanted to do was selves were guilty of complacency. zinski, who was left at home because stop them." "I think we came in here with a bad ofa recurring shoulder injury. When attitude," admitted co-captain Bob Naylor went down, freshman Joe The officials stopped the game Crable. "I think a lot of us thought if Bars got the call. He came through when Crable, who finished with a we just played half as good as we're with six tackles, five of them solo. team high 10 stops, finally did break capable of, we'd beat them -but "I thought all the freshmen played Bob Golic's mark. The senior was that wasn't the case." very well," praised Griffith. given the football. "I'll put it beside 
"It was a lot of factors," said Phil "Especially when they weren't the rest ofthem," he said. Pozderac. "Yeah, I'm sure there was probably some looking ahead to Penn State, but the thin air was a big part of the way we played. My lungs 
• Game 
were really hurting." 

"You tell yourself that the whole idea of the different atmosphere is continuedfrom page 12 ( 12-of-18)." mental," offered quarterback Tim 
The profits from last night's game,
Koegel. "But it really is physical. You 
defense," DiStanislao said. "If she along with the profits of the men's lose your wind quickly." 
could be more attentive on defense, basketball intersquad game, will be Colorado's high altitude forced a 
she could be a great player." divided between the Special Olym­lot of substitutions during the after­Senior captian Missy Conboy, pics and the Neighborhood Study noon, especially on defense. Notre 
playing for the Gold team, also Help Program. Following the Dame called time-out a few times 
grabbed five rebounds. Despite women's game, the youth of the just to let the players take a breather. an injured ankle, 6-0
playing with Neighborhood Study Help Program"During their long touchdown junior forward Jan Crowe had seven presented flowers to the team mem­"Billy Bahnah" goes up for two ofhis game-high 23 points in drive, I was really sucking air," said points and four rebounds. bers. last night's annual intra-squad scrimmage. Varner also hauled defensive end Tony Belden. "I got The Gold squad was composed of · The Irish open their 1981-82 eight rebounds in the gold squad's 65-31 win. Standing the wind knocked out of me once Bates, Crowe, Conboy, sophomore season on Thursday, Dec. 3 against Varner is freshman swingman Dan Rowan. For more 
and kept going, but when it hap­Thersa Mullins, and freshmen Susan St. Joseph's ofRensselaer at the ACC. charity game, as well as the results of the women's in rn.. ~r,·ur.w•• pened a second time, I had to come Neville and Janice Monagle. Playing scrimmage, seepage 12. (Photo by Cheryl Ertelt) out just to catch my breath." 
for the Blue were S<:hueth, Kaiser, And Air Force capitalized 
on Matvey, junior Debbi Hensley, and Notre Dame's weariness. "Our of­
freshman Laura Dougherty. fensive line came back to the huddle 
Sophomore guard Jenny Klauke, and said their defense was kind of 
the first woman to receive an ath­dogging it," said AFA's quarterback 
letic grant-in-aid from Notre Dame, 
Phoenix 4 .556 2 
17:10; NO-Perry (Rothstein), 19:49. "A''~"""'••Ed Antoine. "We sensed they were is sidelined with a stress fracture of 
Golden State 4 4 .500 2.5 -Schmidt (interference. minor), 1 
the tibia. The injury is not healing
tiring, and took advantage ofit." Seattle 3 4 .429 3 SECOND PERIOD-Scoring: WM San Diego 2 5 .2a6 4 (Berthelsen, Murphy) PPG, 4:19;
"They came ready to play, on of­
properly. and Klauke is out in­(Scurfield, Fitzpatrick), 9:20; WM ­definitely.
fense and defense," said tailback Phil NBA Saturday's Results Murphy), 10:55; WM ­Eastern Conference Detroit 117, Atlanta 104 nesen), 15:26. Penalties: NO
Carter, who totaled 156 yards and "The Blue team looked a little 
Atlantic Division New Jersey 103, Kansas City 92 (interference, minor). 3:59; WM two scores Saturday. "They were ob­more confident tonight," DiStanis­w L Pet. GB Boston 92, Cleveland 91 (slaShing, minor). 5:04; NO 
-Boston a .889 Philadelphia 109. New York 102 minor), 12:16; WM ­
viously prepared for us, especially lao said following the game. "They 
Philadelphia a 1 aa9 Wash1ngtonn 104, Chicago 99 minor), 19:24. our passing game. But our running ran well. made 3 .429 Golden State 11a, Dallas 112
(Blue) They the Washington 4 4 THIRD PERIOD -Scoring: game worked pretty well, so we New York 3 5 .375 4.5 Houston 109, Utah 105, OT (Higg1ns). 16:18. Penalties: NO-Schmidt
transition from defense to offense 
New Jersey 2 7 .222 6 Los Angeles 98, Phoemx 97 minor), 1 :22; J. Olson (charging, m1nor). 8:00
didn't have to rely on the pass." 
without losing rhythm. The Gold, on Central DMslon Indiana 123, San D1ego 114 Shots on goal: the other hand, did better when they
A big reason the passing attack Milwaukee 5 2 .714 Notre Dame Detroit 5 3 .625 .5 Yesterday's Results Northern Michigan 
failed to materialize as in prior 
slowed down the pace and worked Milwaukee 9a, Cleveland 96
Indiana 4 4 .500 1.5 Goalies-Notre Dame, Laurion. Western weeks was quarterback Kiel's shaky inside for the good shot. Atlanta 3 4 .429 2 Los Angeles 124, Indiana 123, DOT gan. Healy. Chicago 4 6 .400 2.5 San Anton1o 110, Portland 1 05 Attendance-2,28a
condition. "I've never been "Right no·w we're moving at a 
Cleveland 3 5 .375 2.5 Today' a Games hospitalized before, so it was kind of No games scheduled 
good pace," DiStanislao said a scary thing for me," said the sopho­Western Conference See SPORTSBOARD, page 8
concerning the team's progress. 
Midwest Division 

more who was fed throught tubes 
"The starting guard spots are still up w L Pet. for grabs, but we anticipated heavy
just days earlier. "When they took San Antonio 6 1 .a57 Utah 5 3 .625 
1.5
me out, it was a good decision.". 
competition for them. Denver 3 5 .375 3.5 "At this point, we have to work on
Koegel came off the bench and Houston 3 6 .333 4 Friday's Game Kansas City 2 6 250 4.5 Michigan State 3 0 1-4 
Battl
directed three straight scoring court sense and mental concentra· 6 Western Michigan 1 4 Q--5
Dallas 1 a .111
drives. He was three for three in the Pacific Division FIRST PERIOD -Scoring: NO -Parsons
tion. I was very encouraged by our 
7 .na (Chapman, Schmidt), Grillo (Reid,
air for 44 yards. But he wasn't the Portland 2 10:25; WM ­
fine free throw shooting tonight 
Los Angeles 5 4 556 2 Murphy), 16:11; NO -Logan (Parsons, Bow1e), 
continuedfrom page 12 
ing." 

Air Force got their only when fullback John escaped Bob Crable's grasp
C PROVID 

plowed nine yards to the the first seven points the Irish allowed in I I quarters. 
"We had our two-point play when it was 14-7," said AFA's 
Merit scholarships up to $20,000 
"We worked on it and practiced week. We just didn't get a use it."
leadership developlnent 
The Irish took that chance when their line finally took co of the trenches and allowed the fense to put 21 quick points on board. "Give the line a lot ofcredi 
said Kid. "They pulled together the fourth quarter and did the job.' 
"We just played like we been playing all day," confessed. "We knew after 
Management training 
Adventure 
touchdown drive that our was getting tired and we had to them offthe field. It was just a of everyone playing with the
Employment opportunity 
intensity at the same time." 

"I take my hat off to Air Force said Faust. "They did an job of preparing for us. They had , 
week off and had won two straigh games -those were big things·w, knew we'd have to cope with. Bu when the chips were down we cam through." 
(219)283_.6265 
Graduate frgm Ngtre Rarne as an Army Officer 

Ylliv£ BEEN DOIWG pOPCORN.. , 
.5NACI<Jt..,jt, AAP PRIIIIN6f tx»l'T' "--IX ,.,OUI OF THE 

INEaJEPAN/iill.l

tliiAT~ '1!JU 
CHA/.I.lfN6MIICX..

GAVe UP£XJ­I'Ve 516N/30 ON
IN6SYMBaS 
IAJITH .. l?lfAIJY

FO~ .JE:RRY 
FOR. 711/S'?.. IA.VlL•

81?01t11N? 
TcR MONPAJ.E./



The Daily Crossword 


Simon 
KNOCK l 
KNOCK! 
©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 11/16/81 All Rights Reserved 

-

Molarity Michael Molinelli 

Monday, November 16, 1981 -page 11 



Campus 
•7:00 
p.m. -Lecture, john Duggan, Saint Mary's College President, Regina North Lounge, All are invited 

•7, 
10 p.m. -Film, Qlakespeare's "Kihg Lear", Engineering Auditorium, S I admission 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, "Weekend", Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art, Sl admission ­NOTE: To have an event appear in the Catnpus column, please submit a notice at least two days before the date you wish to have your notice published. For more information, call Ed at 1715. 


Television 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00 p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 
10:00 p.m. 
ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
12:00a.m. 12:30a.m. 

Tonight 
16 MASH 22 CBSNews 28 Joker's Wild 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Rt·port 46 Believer's Voice ofVictory 16 All in the Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 16 Little House on the Prarie 22 Private Benjamin 28 That's Incredible 34 Great Performances 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 22 The Two ofUs 46 Blackwood Brothers 16 George Burns Early, Early, Early 
Christmas Special 22 MASH 28 NFL Football: San Diego at Seattle 34 No Place Like Home 46 Today with Lester Sumrall 22 House Calls 34 Close Harmony 
16  "Loretta  Lynn,  The  Lady...The  
Legend"  
22  Lou Grant  

34 The Harvest Run 
46 Jimmy Swaggart 
16 Newscenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
34 The Dick Cavett Show. 
46 Praise The Lord 
16 Tonight Show 
22 Quincy/Harry 0 
34 Captioned ABC News 
28 Newswatch 28 
46 Lester Sumrall Tt·aching 
16 Tomorrow Coast To Coast 
28 ABC News Nightline 
46 Blackwood Brothers 
I 

I 
~ 
t 
I 
-· 
.. 

NMRMO/llf.' H£'5&:116 /f'OIPAU? R:F./7 IN '8'1. I'M IN AI?& Y(JJ CHAR6(; CF 5CRAPP!N6 5CR/OU5, HIS OW 1/Jf.NTIF/CATia.l IJI.JANt? IAJITH L1813RAUSM AIJ{) 
'\ JIMMY CARTER, 

ACROSS 1 Window hanging 6 -Califor­nia 
10 British stool pigeon 
14 Kind of race 
15 Friends, in France 16 Chills and 
fever 17 Arrogant 20 Vatican man 21 Succor 22 Menotti 
character 23 Refrain syllables 25 Dugout 
27 Entertainer 
MacRae 30 Map 31 Distress 

signal 34 Guffaws 36 Chance 37 Leave out 38 Before 23A 39 Toodle-oo 40 -room 41 Shrewd 
bargainer 45 Baseball stat. 46 Singer Adams 47 Garden 
workers 48 Applause 49 Incisive 
quality 

Friday's Solution 
50-Downs 53 Bering or 
Black 54 Fly high 58 Engagesin 
profitless 
debate 62 Lessen 63 Great many 64 Upto 65 Holy women: 
abbr. 66 Deed 67 Untidy 
DOWN 1 Let fall 2 Gambling 
mecca 3 Cockeyed 4 Discussion 
group 
member 5 Covet 6 State in 
Brazil 7 Included 
with 8 Fast dance 9 Tree 
10 Bible name 11 City in India 12 Frantic 
haste 13 Boat part 18 Pacific 
coast shrub 19 Forest denizens 

24 Beverage 25 Seaweed 26 Disgusted 
expression 27 Singer 
Dinah 28 Four-bagger 29 MsJong 30 Handbag 31 Protect 
from sun 32 Western 
movie 33 Masts 35 Nautical 
term 39 "It-to know one" 41 Positions of 
control 42 Harem room 43 Group of 
three 44 Deserter 48 Pigeon 
sheds 49 Animal 50 Recedes 51 Fuel 52 Satisfy 53 Bristle 55 Table 
scraps 
56 Sale condition phrase 
57 Depend 59 Landon 60 Deer 61 Drone 
University Artist Series 
The final program of the fall University Artist Series will feature Duo Vivo, an internationally ac­claimed saxophone and piano combination, at 8: IS 
p.m. Tuesday (Nov. 17) in the Annenberg Auditorium ofthe Snite Museum ofArt. Tickets are S2 and S I and may be purchased at the door. 
Laura Hunter, saxophonist. and pianist Brian Connelly have performed throughout the United States and at the Eurotreff International Festival in Tuebingen, Germany. 
A winner in the 1980 Concert Artist Guild com­petition, Laura Hunter made her New York debut in Carnegie Hall recital earlier this year. She studied with Donald Sintra as a student at the Uin· versity of Michigan and was featured soloist with the school's symphony orchestra on tours. She presently teaches at Houston Baptist University. 
Connelly is a graduate student at Michigan and has appeared as a soloist on tour with baritone Leslie Guinn. · 
The series of concerts noted artists will resume during the spring semester. 
Your Student Union presents SENIOR BAR NIGHT All are welcome for all the fun & specials 10:00 p.m. -12:30 a.m. Tuesday, November 17  CUAn a cpafft Ob Jo,ntbotree S'icke~ CRegiSWI C:Ouitwg C:Owne~t ill C:Owwg ffiaQ~<: vUonday t.Mough tJiwlr.<:day CWIMPlt a day . t.A:nnour.ced iJl tlte (0boouJe~t each day. VLCkem ca11 stiQQ be bought fp~t S5 at g.cu. tJLCket (0MLCe  

.. 

By MICHAEL OLENIK 
Sports Writer 
Michigan State held a clinic on close checking and good shooting this past weekend at the expense of the Notre Dame hockey team, and the Spartans cruised to 4-2 and 8-4 victories in a home-and-home series with the Irish. 
Notre Dame was plagued by penalties and poor play overall, as Coach Lefty Smith clearly indicated after Saturday's 8-4 game at the ACC. 
"We played poorly in every facet of the game," he said. "Our passing was bad and the defense played in­consistently throughout. I have to hand it to Michigan State for taking advantage ofthe situation." 
Spartan captain Mark Hamway, an Irish nemisis a year ago, led the charge Saturday night by notching a hat trick in the opening period, the first against Notre Dame this season. 
The period marked the league debut for Irish netminder Bob McNamara, who had to fend off 12 shots in a frustrating first test. Despite givng up four goals, the junior from Toronto, Ontario could not be faulted exclusively. In fact, all but one of MSU's four goals in the period came on excellent oppor­tunities, mostly due to some crisp Spartan passing. 
A case in point was the first Michi­gan State goal when Newell Brown fed an onrushing Nigel Thomas with a pretty pass from behind the Irish net before Thomas waltzed in alone on McNamara only 1:18 into the game. 
Hamway's show began two minutes later when he collected two goals only a minute apart, giving the Spartans a 3-0 lead within the first five minutes of the game. 
The Irish finally broke the ice on a powerplay goal when john Schmidt .. blasted a shot from the center of the blueline past what seemed to be a screened Ron Scott. Scott, one ofthe premier goaltenders in the league, had to follow the shot through a veritable wall of bodies before final­ly finding it nestled in the net behind him. Hamway answered Schmidt's goal a minute later on a fluke play that saw a slow rolling puck escape a last­second stretch by McNamara. Irish co-captain Jeff Logan deflected teammate Kirt Bjork's shot past Scott with only :45 to play in the period, but Smith's crew was smart­ing when it left the ice for a needed 
----~---------------------------------------------­
~ ~-~ ---~--~---~----~ --~-----~ 
Monday, November 16, 1981 -page 12 
Fourth quarter explosion ends ND-AF A 'Dog fight' 
By KELLY SULLIVAN their 14-point margin. Two big Sports Writer gainers in that march completely swung the momentum Notre 
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. -Dame's way. Carter took a pitchout You wouldn't think that a coach from his own 40 ohiO blasted 44 would call a 28 point victory a yards on the game's longest play "dogfight," but that's exactly how from scrimmage. And Greg Bell Gerry Faust and many of his players followed that back-breaking play described Saturday's game with Air with a 16-yard touchdown run Force. around the right side. 
"I sure don't feel like we were just "Those two big plays were the key in a 35-7 ballgame," admitted the to the game," said Air Force Notre Dame coach. "Boy, they were linebacker Mike France. "Our tough. That was an exciting defense just didn't fill the right gaps game ...too exciting." on either play, and bang, their man 
Faust might have meant it was an was into our secondary. exciting fourth quarter, because "We were out there trying to that's the only period either team prevent rhem from scoring, and they showed much life. Notre Dame had get the big plays." pretty much sleepwalked its way to The Irish encored with two more a 14-0 lead on early touchdowns by touchdowns on their final two pos­Phil Carter, the first set up by quar­sessions -a five-yard run by ful­terback Blair Kiel's 31-yard sprint lback Larry Moriarity and a 12-yard and the second following an Air run by freshman Mark Brooks with Force fumbled punt. just :47 remaining. 
Notre Dame might have just been "I'm just sick about that final content walking out of Falcon score," said Air Force coach Ken Stadium with that score in their Hatfield. "I think we played better pocket, but Air Force made the than to come up with that." mistake of cutting the margin to His scrappy Cadets held their own 
seven. That's when the rooffell in. with a bigger and more talented op­break. Michigan State scored again "It took that score to wake ponent for three full quarters. Led by 
Between periods, Smith and assis­halfway through the final period. everyone up," said offensive tackle defensive standout Johnny Jackson, tant coach Len Moher decided to in­with freshman Tom Anastos getting Phil Pozderac. "Up to that point, we in on a game high 1 5 tackles, the Fal­sert Dave Laurion for McNamara in the goal, and the fate of the Irish were pretty flat." cons shut down Notre Dame's pas­an effort to shake things up. seemed to be leaning towards the "Their touchdown opened our sing attack, putting double coverage 
"We hoped to get a psychological wrong side. eyes," agreed quarterback Tim on split end Joe Howard most ofthe 
advantage by changing," explained The remainder of the game Koegel. "When we had a 14-0 lead day. Smith afterward. "We thought that if featured the exchange of two goals we hadn't really pushed ourselves. If "They were really prepared tor we picked up a quick goal in the apiece for both teams, with Logan they'd have scored again at 14-7 we us," said Kiel. "We couldn't get any­second period, momentum would getting his second of the game ano would've had to walk home." thing deep." 
definitely swing to our side. Unfor­Bjork his second of the series. Both Faust sent Koegel into the game "Jackson is a great ddensive back, tunately, things didn't quite work facts are significant in that it was the for an ailing Kiel, still feeling the ef­probably one of the best in the out that way." first time Notre Dame's second line fects of a flu virus that hospitalized country," said Faust. "I voted for him 
Laurion's presence in the nets led the way for the Irish offense. him earlier in the week. for all-America after seeing him on seemed to be felt by the Spartans in Probably the primary reason for th..­"I really felt like it was time to the films thito week." the second period, as Michigan Sate revival was the shift of Bill Rothstein come out," admitted Kiel, who left Late in the game, senior reserve 
struck for only one goal in the from the first line to the second, as after hitting just five of 13 passes for quarterback Ed Antoine or­stanza, that being a powerplay goal Smith felt his team wasn't getting the 66 yards. chestrated an impressive 16-play, by Lyle Phair. However, the Irish of­proper scoring balance. "I didn't ask to be replaced, but I seven-minute Falcon drive that fense forgot to get some goals back, Commenting on the reason after wasn't disappointed -I was feeling spiced up what had been a pretty un­
and the deficit after two periods of the game, Smith stated, "We hated pretty weak and tired." eventful defensive struggle. play was 5-2. like heck to break up the first line, Faust also sent his offense to the "We weren't surprised that we 
The Irish did get the oppor­but we just had to get a more field with specific instructions. "I moved the ball that well on them," tunities to close the gap in that balanced attack. It looked like things told them we had to score," he ack­admitted Antoine. "At halftime, we middle period, but as Smith put it, worked out in that respect tonight, nowledged. "That this was the time talked about how close it still was. "They made things very difficult for but the overall results were obvious­that it counted. That's the sign of a We felt we could come back. We us by preventing those second shots ly disappointing." good football team when things go made some changes in our blocking off the rebounds. They hustled all Friday's contest was played before wrong and you can plug it out." assignments and things started click-
the way, and you could see it in their The Irish produced immediate forechecking and backchecking." See ICERS, page 9 results. In four plays, they regained See BATILE, page 10 
Digger, Mary D. show off squads 
Varner leads squad Freshman steal show to. 65-31 victory in woman's contest 
BySKIP DESJARDIN points, hitting 11-of-19 shots from 
By DAVE DZIEDZIC anxious to see how the five fresh­Associate Sports Editor the floor. He was also very strong on 
Sports Writer men would react to a game situation. the boards, pulling in eight 
"They seemed to live up to their ex· Last night at the ACC, nearly 2700 rebounds. 
Coach Mary DiStanislao pectations," DiStanislao said. Espe­people got a preview ofthe 1981-82 Barry Spencer, filling in for the 
previewed her 1981-82 Irish cially noteworthy was the play of Notre Dame basketball team. Digger injured Tim Andree at center, 
Women's basketball team last night Schueth, Rates, and another fresh­Phelps and his staff staged a 25-grabbed ten rebounds on the night, 
in an intersquad charity game at the man, 5-l0 forward Ruth Kaiser minute scrimmage as part of a leading both teams in that category, 
ACC. (Tempe, Ariz.). Kaiser tallied eightcharity double-header. while hitting four ofhis seven shots. 
, The Blue squad defeated the Gold points and grabbed four rebounds "The people got a real good idea "We've got quality athletes," said 
squad, 36-24, in the 20-minute while playing for the Blue team. of where we stand right now," Phelps, "and they're going to be fine. 
game. Mary Beth Schueth. a 6-0 "They earned good marks," DiS­Phelps said after the game. "We've We've got a lot of work to do, as the 
freshman forward from Indianapolis, ranislao said of the freshman trio. got a long way to go, but we're people could see. But there is a lot to 
lead all scorers with 12 points for "Now we need to get them into making some progress. work with out there on the floor. 
the Gold, while 6-l freshman tor­games and gt~t them adjusted to col­"I think we laid a lot offears to rest "We've got to concentrate, and ward Carrie Bates (Kansas City, Mo.) lege basketball." 
tonight as well. People who thought play with intensity. We obviously 
scored 10 points to pace the Blue. junior Shari Matvey, Notre this team was going to be John Pax­art>n't going to beat people physical­
"I'm satisfied that we got to play Dame's all-time leading scorer, son and four other guys found out Jy, so we've got to plav smart." 
this type of game," DiStanislao said. scored six points and grabbed a how wrong they were." The squad was split into two 
"We've been practicing for a full game-high five rebounds for the It's not that Paxson didn't put on teams for the scrimmage, and the month now, and we need to play in Blue team. The 6-1 Matvey,his usual steady performance, but he lineups changed very little over the game situations. We made predict­however. had difficulty guardinggot some strongsupport, as the Gold course of the night. The only sub-able mistakes, but I'm happy with Bates. "Shari needs to work on her team beat the Blue team, 65-31. 
the results."

See HOOPS, page 8 See GAME, page 10
Billy Varner led all scorers with 23 DiStanislao especially was 

