.Blue Wave-page 10 


VOL. XV, NO. 90 TlllJRSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1981
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Supports FLOC 
ND continues boycott 
body. "Wc:'re calling for details in spending all thl'ir timt· -a tn·mt·n­By MARY AGNES CAREY 
Novc:mber," he said. d~lUS burden -to rt··t·ducltt' the 
SluffReporter 
In February, 19H.2, tht·. review studt·nts." conunittee will then tkcidt· if the Ct·d Schickd, president of FLOC, The University-wide boycott of llnivc:rsity will honor a student vott· said tht· purpost· oft he hoycoll is "to the Campbell, Libby-McNeil-Libby 
for a boycott. make a statt·nwnt." Sht· t·xplained and Nestil' Corporations will con­
FLOC membt·rs must obtain IS that a thrt'l'·way negotio1tion he· tinut· until February, 19H.2, accord­
pen.Tnt ofallmH.krgraduatt· student tween FLOC. limnt·rs, ;mding to Dr. James McDonnell, 
signatures currently enrolled (not Camphdls ami l.ihby-McNl'il·l.ibbydirector ofstudent activities. 
studying abroad) to have the issut· to improvt· conditions l(lr placed on a ballot. If approved by farmworkns is FLOC's immnliatt· Tht· Student Boycott Affairs Com­
students, the boycott will continut• goal. "They ( li1rmworkers) live in in· mitttT, which met last Thursday, 
for another two years. human conditions. art· trt·atetl un­based the decision on reports sub· McDonndl explained that a two­justly, anti tlt·snvt· improvemt·nts in mittcd by both the Farm Labor year boycott was approvt·d, living and working conditions, 
Organizing Committn· ( FI.OC) and "(otherwise) Mudents would he wages, and sakty," slw said. the Campbell Soup Company. "It did not appear to the committee that anything had changed from a year ago." McDonnell said. 

ANAD offers help

Stwll•nts are helping the public fill out tbeir income tax forms. 
Committet· members also ap­
( {Jimto by Rachel Blount) 
proved guidelines establishing a 


to anorexia victims 
n.cw committee: to review future 
"student-initiatt·d boycott 
referenda." This committee will Editor's Note: Anorexia Nervosa with ditti:rcnt proposed remedies. consist of tht.• viet· president of stu­is a disease which afflicts Hospitalizmion might, of net'Cssity, dent affairs, assistant to the vice thousands of college students. be the first step in trc:atnll'nt. Be­
Flames sweep Hilton; 
eight die in Las Vegas 
most~y female, e11ery year. In this students and director of student ac­three-part series, The Observer ex­scntial: the group encourages taking 

LAS VE<iAS, Nt.·v. (AP) -Ar­refugees listened outside the Con­tivities. amines the circumstances and courses in nutrition anti assertive­sonists st·t the four fires which'sent vention Centn meeting room lkpresentativt·s from Voluntn·r symptoms surrounding anorexia, ness training. "Sometimes individual flanws swt·eping through tht· giant where the news conference was Services, Center for Experiential the avenues ofhelp available, and psychotherapy is most c:ftcctive," 
l.a1o Vt·~a~ Hilton. burstin~ out an held. learning, C~mpus Ministry. the specific case of a Notre Dame Meehan said. "but the ~roup places t·•ghth lloor wmdow and roanng up About -t,\Jl)\J people were rest·ued Minority Student Affairs, and ~;tutiel(i wilb u more "evere l'Uriely most or ns nopt· 111 sdr-hetp the side of the hotel, authorities said or t.•vacuatcd from tht.· building, in· Housing will also serve on the com­of anorexia known as bulimitl. programs." yestt·rday. Eight pcopk dit'd and eluded I I 0 plucked from the: roofby mittee as well as at kast one: studt.•nt Today: Part Two. One anorexic support group 
19H wert· injured. helicopter. and one faculty reprc:sc:ntativc which has enjoyed consitkrable llnlike tht· killer M<iM <lrand Parrish said fires were started "on chosen by the vice president for stu­By BRIDGET BERRY progress since its inception in Mic­fiord tire whkh daimnl H4 lives the: dghth floor in the elevator lobby dent affairs. News Staff hiana in the summer of 19HO meets Nov. 21, "building codes were not a art.·a. Another was on the second bi-weekly in the Oaklawn Psyc­fat·tor in c:itlll'r point of origin or floor in the uniform linen area and 'l'h., curr"l)t b h' h Anorexia Nervosa and Associated hiatric Cc:ntc:r in Elkhart. "Family 
president for student affairs, dean of havior Modification Therapy is t'S· 
~ ~ oycott, w IC ex­

sprt·ad of fire." Las Vegas Fire Chief the other was in tht· third floor in a t"n·'s· Disorders is a national non-profit therapy is always encouraged, as the:
~ u to University-administeredRoy Parrish told rt·portcrs. service c:lcvator." The fourth fire educational and sc:lf-hc:lp group victim's entire family is generally im­
areas directly serving the Notre 

Parrish said firt· hoses on tht· ninth startnl in a ninth-floor firehose:. based in Nort~field, Ill. ANAD offers mersed in her crisis," Meehan said.
Dame student voting population,

floor were sevt·rcd, stuffed with counseling, information '\nd refer­Consequently, sdf-help groups in·
Parrish said he could not link the · will be reviewed again in late 
llammablt-material and sc:t afirt·. rals, and educational programs to dude anorectics and often one or
Hilton blau· with c:~rlicr fires on.the November or early December,
llilton llotcb Corp. Vice: Presi­anorectics and their families. Foun­more family members, former
famous Las Vegas Strip. l'JHI. 
dent Henri Lewin otfert·d a der and President Vivian Meehan en­anorectics and also "candidates" for
At that time, according to McDon­

S I 00,000 rt·wanl for information Lt·win said the hotel had not courages and supports sc:lf-hclp the disease.
ncll, all companies involved in the leading to the apprehension of the received any threats bcli>re the fires, groups. Through extensive Meetings arc soothingly informal
boycott, as wc:ll as FLOC members, arsonists. but during the confusion of evacua­research, the groups has discovered and familiar. Tht· girls art· painfully
will be: asked to provide written "This is a homiddt· invt·stigation. tion, hotel management received a wha·t it bdicves to be possible:, hont·st and candid. They converse
rt.·ports and possibly presentations This is a criminal invcMigation," call in which the: caller asked, "Is the: causes, kc:y symptoms and promis­about their emotions and diftkulties
to the committee: and/or student <Jov. Bob LiM said as hundreds offire fire still <~n? Have they got you yet?" ing remedies. frec:ly, asking for sympathy Meehan is not concerned with sometimt·s, receiving empathy and weight Joss l'XCt'pt in its rhvska( •·nmra~~inn :•lmo~t alway~ Mem­
l;p to$50 billiuu 
threat to the hclth of the victim. bers asserted that until a victim ad­Weight loss is only a symptom of a mitted illness, proposed therapy was much more serious problem," she u~dess. The group, they said, had 
said. "The anorectic is generally given tht.·m tht· couragt· to admit and from a middlc:-class, success­oric:ntc:d family. She was usually a 

Reagan) Cabinet debate cuts 
...... ··---·J-~.­

\VASIIINGTON (AP)-President Reagan gave three "They did conclude: that some more: t'Uts were pos­good child, never rebellious. As she THURSDAY·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:-;·:····""· Cabint·t secrt·taries a t·h;lnce yt·sterday to make direct sible:, and still protect the truly needy," she: said. grew, she developed a distorted sclf­

::::::::::::::::::::FOCUS 

appt·als bc:fort· ht.· finally tkddes where his budget· "Truly needy" has become the administration's imagc:. She has low sclf-estcc:m and t'Litting ax will fall. catchword to defend itsclf :~gainst suggestions that perceives that she has little: or no But deputy White lloust· press secretary Karna Small those dependent on government assistance will suffer control over her 'empty' lite. She: is 
said "tht·re were no fundamental disagreements" on under the president's budget cuts. not happy. She often hates hcrsclf. confront thl'ir disease. It's this illness, not the: symptom,
spending reductions and that when the mc:c:ting broke Crosson said that a ~o:roup could 
Ms. Small defined the "truly needy" as "those people: that has to be treated in order to
up, tht· president, his aides and the Cabinet members not takt· tht· place ofindividual psyc­
who would have a very difficult time surviving without
"were looking for additional cuts." cure the anorectic." hotherapy. "Anorectics must have: 
the benefit of the programs." 
ANAD · recognizes the key more to share than their p;tthology,In their search for further budget cuts, the: CabinetWith one wc:c:k to go before: he unveils his plans to symptoms of the: diet-related disor­and an dlCctive group would he ex·sla.~h a~ much a.~ !SO billion from proposed 19H2 members were conferring with budget director David ders as: exaggerated interest in food tremdy difficult to organize." Thebudget increases, the president is focusing almost A. Stockman, who sat next to Reagan at the meeting couplc:d with the denial of'hungcr; care given through Jht· University'st·ntircly on the economy. 
yesterday. 
sleep problems; excessive devotion Psychological Services is rdln·tivcReagan met in the White I louse: Cabinet Room with "They were told to go back and work out the: details," to schoolwork; and a program of of Crosson's viewpoint.

Agricultun· Secretary John Block, Interior Secretary Ms. Small said. 

unrelenting c:xerdsc. "Our staff, the women rectors,

James Watt and Richard St·hwc:ikcr, secretary of the: The 60 to 70 percent of anorec­and physicians in the first lloor oftht·
lkpartment of llealth and !Iuman Services. lie: will hold Stot·kman said Tuesday that big business and upper­tics who are trapped in the gor· clinic arc aware of the incrc:a.~ed in­
scvt·ral such sessions with Cabinet members. income individuals will not escape Reagan's budget ging/purging cycle known a.>; cidence of the: pathology in tht·
En<:rgy Secretary James Edwards wa.o; present, but his reductions, which he said will cur federal spending on bulimia, binge: and then induce: college-age population," Crosson
budget had not been taken up when the 90 minutes synthetic fuels and export-import activity as well as vomiting or use laxative excessively. said. Not infrequently. she: ex­
allotted for tht· meeting elapsed. such social programs as food stamps, unemployment In advanced stages, a girl's menstrua­plaint·d, a perceptive rector, resi­
lkagan, with a n:d plastic, loosclc:af binder open on assistance and Medicaid. 
tion ceases and several other inter­dent assistant or professor willthe Cabinet table in front of him, posed for pictutes It was decided at a Cabinc:t meeting Tuesday that no nal deteriorations progress, Meehan cncouragt.· a girl to come over.

with his advisers at tht· start ofthe meeting, but made: no cuts would be made in seven social assistance programs 
said. She said these studt·nts -much

public comment. representing about SZ I 0 billion in spending, or he­ANAD suggests an intcnsc:ly per· like: alcoholics deny their
:\ts. Small. who did not attend. would only describe tween onc:-fourth and ~me-third of the 57.39.3 billion sonalized therapy program. The
tht.· targt·t ;1rea for ;1dditional budget cuts as that of budget proposed by timncr Prc:sidc:ntJimmy Carter for 
See ANOREXIA, page4
groups encourages c:xpc:rimc:ntation

"administrative overhead." the fisl·al year tht hegins Oct. I. 
-. 
I 

Thursday, February 12, 1981 -page 2



NewsBrieb 
~~~~====~============================~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Cynthia Dwyer, who said she likes Iran and its people and "would return if possible" despite a nine-month stay in an Iranian prison, returned to the United States today to be greeted by her anxious family. She was met at the arrival gate by her husband and three children. Airport police hustled them to a nearby conference room. The Swissair plane carrying the 49-year-old free-lance writer from Zurich, Switzerland, landed on schedule_at 2:40p.m. at Kennedy International Airport. She had left Switzerland at noon -6 a.m. EST. Earlier, in an interview with The Associated Press on her flight aboard a Singapore Airlines jet that took her from the Persian Gulfsheikdom of Dubai to Zurich, she said that despite her imprisonment and the anxiety caused to her family, she did not regret her stay in the Islamic Republic. "I love Iran and its people. I would return if possible," she said. -AP 
Synthetic marijuanapffisare helping treat nausea among cancer patients at University ofTexas M.D. Anderson Hospital and Tumor Institute, the hospital says. The hospital began giving the pills to patients last fall, and Dr. Fred G. Conrad said Monday no un~x­pected side effects have been observed. He said about two-thirds of the hospital's 12S cancer patients have benefitted frotn the marijuana pills. "The majority ofour patients got 'high' after getting the pills, but most ft:lt they ltould handle that sensation when their terrible nausea was relieved," Conrad said. -AP 
Electric rates are going up 5o to 7o percent 
across Massachusetts this year because of price increases for the fuel oil needed to generate electricity, company officials say. The state's largest electricity distributor, Massachusetts Electric Co., said it will charge customers about SO percent more, while other smaller com­panics predicted, rate increases ofup to 70 percent. Boston Edison, for example, predicted the average monthly bill for a family of four will increase from $36.50 to S62.50 this year. -AP 
A fiery explosiontore through a chemical plant yester­day, buckling cement walls, crumpling roofs of adjoining buildings and shooting debris into the sky. One man was killed and 24 people were injured, authorities said. The blast, felt for 20 miles, blew away the entire back ofone ofthe buildings ofthe DeSoto Inc., located in an industrial area about 25 miles south ofChicago. "I thought somebody had been shot," said Ben Wilson, a gas station attendant, who was about a mile away when he heard the explosion. "Then I looked up and saw heavy white smoke coming from the factory." The cause of the explosion, in a building housing a rosin plant, was not immediately known. The fire left the area blanketed with soot and debris. Thick gray smoke spewed into the air for several hours after the explosion, which occurred shortly ~eforc 8 a.m. "The place is absolutely a shambles," said a worker at the plant. Witnesses said a shack about I00 yards from the explosion was splattered with blood, apparently from injuries to a security guard who was looking through a window at the 
plant when it exploded. -AP. 

Adopting a management tool used by Chair­
man Mao. Acting Immigration Commissioner David Crosland has or­dered 10 of his top officials to do temporary field work in border patrol offices, detention centers, airports and records offices to learn first-hand about the agency's problems and the public's concerns. The program announced yesterday is termed "Mud Training" by the Im­migration and Naturalization Service but it bears some similarity to a principle of the dccea~ed Chinese leader, Mao Tse-tung. Mao insisted that top bureaucrats dofield work, such as farm labor, to ensure they not lose .ouch with the con.:;erns ofordinary citizens. In an interview, Crosland said, "I'm not a student ofMao and I didn't know the program was similar to his, but I felt that some actual field work would be more useful than simple field trips or classroom courses in giving our people a first-hand sense ofour problems and the concerns the public has with us." -AP. 
Deadly winds pushing heavy thun­
derstorins roared out of the Great Lakes yesterday after dum­ping more snow on the Midwest. Winter's meanest stor)ll caused flooding and power outages from Florida to New England, but also brought welcome rain. The death toll rose to 27. Fog snarled air traffic in New York City, and snowdrifts ofup to 5 feet forced police to close highways in Michigan's Upper Peninsula, where 14 inches of new snow fell overnight and some communities declared snow emer­gencies. ,In the Carolinas, windstorms killed three people, 1damaged homes and businesses and brought down power lines. Power outages also were reported in Georgia, Maryland, New York and Pennsylvania. Records for low temperatures were set or matched in at least a dozen cities, including North Platte, Neb., where a minus 22 reading tied the mark established in 1899. Three men froze to death in Colorado Idaho and Iowa. Bitter cold froze natural gas wellheads and powe; plant feeder lines in Texas, forcing utilities statewide to declare an emergency and ask residents to curb demand. -AP 
Sunny and cold today. High in the mid teens. Clear and not as cold tonight. Lows around 10 above. Partly sunny tomor· row. Highs in the low 20s. -AP. 
The power ofthepolls 
Political opinion polls have become one ofthe single most important decisive factors in the modern electoral process. Yet, we actually know very little about them. These polls determine how millions of dollars will be spent, how campaigns will be run and what will be said in them, indeed, for many voters (sadly), how people will actually cast their vote. How accurate arc these things? Who gets surveyed? How have they come to car­ry such weight? It seems we take polls, and their results, for granted: is it safe to do that? 
People first took a hard look at polls in 1940; when a highly respected magazine, Literary Digest, pegged Wendell Wilkie to trounce Franklin Roosevelt in a potential landslide. The magazine folded soon after, as much from humiliation as monetary difficulties. But it showed political scientists the importance of a repre­sentative survey group, and a mail-in survey from the Digest's well-educated, upper-class subscribers was not an accurate indication of the mood of the electorate. The first scientific poll ·was taken soon after, and reputable polls have steadily upgraded the level of ac­curacy ever since. 
From time to tirite, The Observer retains the services of the "McNally Group," a student polling service headed by NO law student Ed McNally, to determine the leanings of the campus at a given time. The "McNally Poll" has been remarkably accurate, correctly prediCting that G~orge Bush would win last spring's Mock Republican Convention, and that Ronald Reagan would win The Observer's Mock Presidential Election in October. The poll also showed the social mores of the average Domer to be remarkably conservative, which seems accurate to us. 
We discussed polls recently withjim Gates, a second· year law student who is supervising the McNally Poll while its namesake studies in England for a year. The main reason national polls such as those conducted by George Gallup and Louis Harris are so accurate is that they select their survey groups scientifically, using cor· responding national percentages of race, sex, income group, etc. It's a remarkably reliable, consistently cor­rect method, and Gates pointed out that the big pol­lsters increase the numbers of people surveyed in a national election year, because of the importance of electoral college votes. These polls are rarely wrong 
any more. 
We were somewhat disappointed to learn that ND/SMC campus polls aren't done the same way. But Gates explained that it wasn't necessary. "It's un­believable that students come from such a geographi· cally diverse area, yet their outlooks and their attitudes are very, very similar." Which is not to say that the McNally Poll is totally random, and it does canvass a larger percentage ofthe populace, targeting abour-200 specific students out of I0,000 total, eventually contacting about 150 total. Gates said that nati9nal polls question only about 1,700 people out of225 'mil· lion, but the scientific selection ma.J.!:imizes the ac· curacy. 
Gates also pointed out the importance of the timing 
ofpolls, reminding that polls done 48 hours prior to this 
year's election showed Carter and Reagan "neck and 
neck," but that later polls done by both Richard 
Wirthlin (Reagan's pol) and Pat Caddell (Carter) made 
r---The_Ohs.erY-er_ Design Editor..................... Margaret Kruse Design Assistants ......................... Patty Fox Kathy Crosset, Tim Neely Layout Staff............................... Kim Parent Rich Fischer, Randy Rentner Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley . News Editor........................... Tom jackman Copy Editor.............................. Pam Degnan Features Layout.......................... Tim Neely Sports Copy Editor.............. Beth Huffman Typist .......................................... Cindy jones Systems Contml ................. Chris Albertoli ND Day Editor........................ Megan Boyle SMC Day Editor......................)ohn Higgins Ad Design ...............................Jeanne LaBoe David E. Wood, Esq. Photographer ................ : ........... Beth Prezio Guest Appearances ................ Captain Axe Typesetter Wardrobe  
Th~ Observer (USPS 598 920) is. published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is8ublished by the students of Notre arne and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved.  


it clear that Reagan would walk away. "People change," 
Gates ob,served. "That just proved that polls are only 
good for the time they're taken, not ten hours later or 
ten hours earlier....lf you don't know the time period 
that (the poll) is taken, it's useless." 
This situation also has a historical precedent -the 
1948 Dewey-Truman race, in which many respected 
pollsters had stopped surveying by the fall simply be­
cause Dewey le!i by so much. Even the final surveys 
showt;.d Dewey to be well ahead, but they were taken in 
mid to late October, and Truman benefited from a huge 
"undecided" swing in the final wce'ks. As you may 
recall, the outcome surprised a few people. 
A new twist was added this year -exit polls. In the rush to be The First with The News, NBC-TV relied on the random method of exit polling to determine that Ronald Reagan would be the winner. By 8:1 5 p.m. (Eastern time), John Chancellor had it on the air, and Jimmy Carter conceded an hour and a half later, even though the voting booths were still open in the West. Many believe that voters who might have had an impact on lesser races decided to stay home as a result. Walter Cronkite, whose network had the same information but didn't use it (unscientific, they cried), said in a recent interview he didn't think the early announcements had that effect, but, beinga new problem, the jury is still out. 
Finally, there is the case ofjohn Anderson, who some 
might argue was ruined by the polls. This is as confusing 
as it is ludicrous: polls shpwed that a sizable portion of 
people would vote for Anderson, but only if polls 
showed that more people were going to vote for-him. 
Got it? This illuminated an enigma which has existed for 
some time -that many people base their votes on how 
the polls read. 

That was not, ofcourse, the original purpose ofpoliti· . cal polls, which was to inform candidates oftheir stand· 
ing in the race, and what they needed to do next. But 
the undeniable reliability ofmodern-day polls has given 
them another dimension -they can have a direct im· 
pact on the campaign themselves. It's a relatively new 
problem, but one which both pollsters and politicians 
will have to deal with in the near future. When the 
preference polls become more important than the elec­
tion day polls, something's got to change. 
Observer Note·--~ 
Tuesday's Observer quoted Student Body President Paul Riehle inaccurately in its report on Monday's Stu­dent Senate meeting. Riehle, referring off the record to the Student Government-sponsored smoker next week, said that one way to deal with campus apathy was to discuss its difficulties "over a few beers." 

montgomery® 
will conduct interviews on this campus TUESDAY, FEB. 17, & WEDNESDAY, FEB.18. Career positions in vertical transportation MARKETING/ MANAGEMENT will be discussed with degree candidates in BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION. For more information about Montgomery and our future visit to your campus, contact your placement office. 


montgomery® 
ELEVATORS•ESCALATORS POWER WALKS & RAMPS 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 

Montgomery Elevator Company, "'/cline. Illinois 61;:!65 Montgomery Elevator Co., Limited, Toronto, Ontario M9B3S5 Offices in principal cities of North America 
The Observer 
In peace, justice issues 


MeNeal cites inconsistency 
By SUSAN KING 
little opposition to wars. Emphasiz­
lecture by saying, "There is some­
News.Haff 
ing most Catholics' apathetic stance 
thing in all ofus that says we must be on peace issues, Ms. McNeal said, 
the strongest. We are the only ones 
Patricia McN~al, a history prof~s­"Catholics have always been very 
to usc a nuclear weapon because no sor at Indiana Univ~rsity at South good people, but ifyou survey them one else had one at the time." Bend, delivered a lecture entitled, on peac~. they want big guns." Ms. McNeal has a Ph.D. from 
"American Catholics and Peace" last When asked what she was per­Temple University and was an ad· night in Carroll Hall at Saint Mary's. 
sonally doing in the movement, Ms. ministrativc assistant on a program
The lectun:-was one in a series 
McNeal replied, "I haven't been for non-violence at Notre Dame. sponsored by the Justice Education 
doing very much lately. I'm con­from 1971 to 1972. She is currentlyCommittee. 
scious about it and have mad~ a teaching history at IUSB and herMs. McNeal bt:gan her lecture by commitment to the cause." She latest book is titled Ameri£·anstating her stance on p~ac~. She said, 
a~ded, ''My kids aren't going to war. Catholics Peace Movement 1928 to"I am an activist and all thos~ other 
It would be over my dead body and I 1972. radical t~rms on~ id~ntifl~s with the 
mean that literally. With Reagan, it is The next two lectures will be peac~ movement." McN~al went on 
more ofan issue. He has no cutbacks given Feb. 25 by Fr.). Bryan Hehir to explain tht· history of American on defense." 
and Mar. 25 by Sr. Mary Luke TobinCatholics and how there has b~~n 
The professor concluded her at 7:30p.m. in Carroll Hall (SMC). 
~oppola defends lottery 
Thursday, February 12, 1981 -page 3 

By KELLI FLINT 
Senior StaffReporter 
Student Union Director Rich 

Coppola responded y~stcrday to 
criticism surrounding the lottery for 
Bruce SprinS.o;tccn concert tickets. 
Coppola noted an article by Tim 
Neely which appeared in The Ob­
sen'er on January 16. "Neely did not 
consult me before writing th~ ar­
ticle," Coppola said. "If he had, I 
would have been able to justify the 
way in which the Student Union 
handled the lottery. 
In Neely's article, he recom­mended an alternative method of conducting lotteries. Neely criticizc:-d several aspects of the Springsteen lottery, particularly the usc of study day and the amount of time consumed waiting for the tkkcts. 
An·ordlng to Coppola, "This was a different type of lottery. Tickets were officially put on sale onJanuary "i. The lottery should have been held on January 4, but we rt•alizcd that the students would not be here on that date. At the time we thought that students would want to have a gt·neral idc:a of what their chances were ofgt·tting scats for the concert before brt·ak. 
"Stt·pan Center was the largest 
building available for the lottery, 
and it was booked solid until study 
day. 
"I also disagree with Neely's sug­
gestion that we should have es­
timated the price of the tickets and 
held the lottery on an earlier date. 
"We did not know the ticket 
prices wht·n we first announced the 
concert. We were not in a position 
to make a knowledgeable guess as to 
the prit:es. Estimating the ticket 
pricc11 would have complicated our 
: 13u, :I ()bserver : : (lcl§§lflt?cl§ ·: 
refunding policies immensely," he said. 
Students who paid S I I.50 for tickets and received Sl0.50 scats arc eligible for refunds. Ticket refunds will be distributed at the ticket office until Friday, Feb. 13. 
The Student Union may do a sur­vey to determine student preferences for lottery procedures. "We usually have nothing but com­pliments about the lottery," Cop­pola said. 
Coppola added that the Student Union is having problems schedul­ing concerts. "This is a bad time for concerts. Promoters are losing money on shows, and there is not much money to be made. 
"There arc not as many people going to concerts now. People arc using more discretion with their leisure money," Coppola said. 
"We hope to be able to schedule concerts for late March and early April." 
-----------------~
I GOOD TIME PIZZA I
I

1  formerly Pasquale Rulli  
I  I  
III  232-1883 $2.00 off large pizZa  II·I  
II I  DELIVERED IN HEATED CONTAINERS TO CAMPUS  I II  

LAST FEW DAYS TO START SIGNING UP

L----------------~ 
IRISH COUNTRY' 
(under new management) 
744 N. Notre Dame 232-0111 OPEN AT NOON 
OMESffiE COOKING AND PIZZAS MON -ladies night 2 for 1 8 -10 TUES -$.25 beer 8 -10 WED -live country music THURS -live rock music $5.00 
all you can drink 9pm -2am 
FRI-live music la Manse 
SAT -GRAND OPENING First 50 women get a camaJion The Eddy St. Nights 

HOOP AND HOUAR AT IRISH COUNTRY Happy Hour 12 -6 M -F Fri -Special Happy Hour 
from 3 -6 for SMC 
-•...,ring in this coupon have a beer on us!!_.
1.(~--=--~-:;-,;.,;,,;;, ____________ 
C:C::J.r-
NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION'S SPRING BREAK IN DAVTONA BEACH 
Advancement Does Not Require An Advanced Degree 
You can spend another two to three years in graduate school or you can turn four years of liberal arts education into a practical, challenging and rewarding career in just three months-as an Employee Benefit Specialist. 
Benefits today amount from 30 to 35 percent of wages and salaries. Recent pension legislation has created even more demand for trained specialists. As an Employee Benefit Specialist you'll be called upon to excercise your own judgement, initiative and intelligence in a challenging, professional environment with progressive responsibility. 
The Institute for Employee Benefits Training is the first and most prestigious school in the United States, training Employee Benefits and Pension Specialists. This is a dynamic, growing career field In which advancement does not require an advanced degree. Our graduates are in demand by law firms, pension consulting firms, insurance companies, banks, and personnel and benefits departments of corporations. The Institute's Placement Service will place you too. If not, you will be eligible for a substantial tuition refund. 
Furthermore, you will earn graduate credit towards a Master of Arts in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law for all course work completed at The Institute. 
If you're a senior of high academic standing and looking for a meaningful career, contact your Placement Office for our catalog and arrange to have an interview with our repre­sentative. 
We will visit your campus on: 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1981 
recruitment will take place on 
St. mary'~ campus 
The Institute 
235 South 17th Street for Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600
Employee Benefits Training 
•
(Operated by Para-Legal, Inc.) 

Approved by The American Bar Association Programs Earn Full Credit Toward M.A. in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law. A c -003 e 
THINK ABOUT IT! GUARANTEED TO BE A GREAT TRIP 
The Observer 



Thursday, February 12 

If ... Dir. by Lindsay Anderson (Great Britain) 1969 
A rhetorical question asked in the fantasy-ridden confines 
of an English boarding school. A brilliant and special film 
which explores all the metaphoric possibilities of the 
cinema in a style full of wit and verve. With Malcolm 
McDowell in his first major role. 
THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 
7:30 pm admission $1.0 
sponsored by the ND-SMC ~~OMMUNICATION &THEATR'~~ 


~--Engineers ___ 

Sundstrand On Campus 
Feb. 19 
A leading high technology company, Sund­strand is involved in the design, manufacture, and sale of advanced systems and components for the aerospace and energy industries. We play a vital role on all U.S. commercial' jets, current military programs, and several business jets. With annual sales approaching $1 billion, we have plants and a sales and service network throughout the world. 
If you're interested in a creative engineering en­vironment where you can work with outstanding professionals, investigate Sundstrand. We offer: 
• 
competitive salaries 

• 
solid benefits 

• 
liberal holidays 

• 
generous educational reimbursement program 


We are headquartered in Rockford, a major community in northern Illinois that offers varied employment opportunities for spouses. 
On-campus interviewer ... Bill Lewis 





a 
'C.J~ SUNDSTRAND 
4751 Harrison Avenue Rockford, IL 61101 
An Equal Opportuntty Employer 
Thursday, February 12, 1981 -page 4 
Denies connections 
Sinatra -wins casino license· 
LAS VEGAS, Nev. (AP) -Frank had never been a business deal be­"She said her recollection was Sinatra won unanimous approval ' tween them and emphatically that Mr. Giancana was there with her 
from a hearing board yesterday for a limited license to become a casino executive again, after a little help from his friends, including actors Gregory Peck and K,irk Douglas. 
The Nevada Gaming Control Board recommended the state Gaming Commission approve at its Feb. 19 meeting Sinatra's request for a license as a "key employee" at Caesars Palace hotel-casino. 
The limitation suggested by the board was a six-month license to see whether Sinatra can keep his temper under control and avoid problems that led to the revocation of his license in 1963. 
"Maybe he has changed a little bit," said board member Dale As­kew, "but I think before I could put the stamp ofapproval on Mr. Sinatra, I would have to condition it on a limited period for monitoring." 
After the ruling, Sinatra rose and shook hands with each member of the panel, then hurried from the hearing room saying "I feel very happy." 
In three hours of testimony, Sinatra denied he was a member of the Mafia or ever received illegal 
money. 
Sinatra conceded that he had met the late Chicago Mafia boss Sam "Momo" Giancana on several occa­sions and had played golfwith him at Palm Springs, Calif., but he said there 
Friday Feb. 13 WSND "LIVE" from 6pm to 9:30 pmFeaturmg the "MATING GAME" 
STRAIGHT FLUSH -9:30 to 1:30pm 
Saturday Feb. -14th featuring Country-rock 

WSND "LIVE" 12 noon to 8pm Mark Davis, Doug Maihafer 
(magic act) 8:00-8:30 WSND "LJVE"8:30-9:30 STRAIGHT FLUSH 9:30 -1:30 
Featuring Rock and roll 
FOR THE SCREW-YOUR-ROOMMATE DANCE VALENTINE'S DAY 
Faculty staff V2 price day STRAIGHT FLUSH 1:30 -5:30 pm Mark Davis&Doug Maihafer (magic act) 3-4pm WSND "LIVE" 5:30 -7:pm and 9pm -12:00 
NDJAZZ Band 7:00-8:15pm FORECAST 8:30-1Opm Sunday Feb. 1 5 
denied he was fronting for Giancana. the first five days of her engage­
In announcing the decision, ment," Bunker told Sinatra, "and she Board Chairman Richard Bunker believed you were there at tha said there had been some unques­time." tionable activity on Sinatra's part. Sinatra, conceding his recollec­
"I am not suggesting he has been a tion ws hazy, said he believed he was saint by any means, but in the areas in Los Angeles making a movie at the we have investigated, we have not time. found any substantive reason he should not be granted a license. In the gaming business, we are not Women going to have a group ofchoir boys." 
The hearing was conducted at city hall in downtown Las Vegas, far from 
highlight
the smoke and disaster of the city's 
second major hotel fire in less than 
three months. Eight people died in the Tuesday night fire at the Las BCAF Vegas Hilton. 
Giancana came up in connection Actress Cicely Tyson and Marva with Sinatra's ownership of the c·al­Collins, Chicago's 'miracle teacher,' Neva Lodge in Lake Tahoe, which will highlight the 1981 Black Cul­Giancana had visited in 1963 -the tural Arts Festival at Notre Dame. 
principal reason Sinatra lost his Ms. Tyson will deliver dramatic gaming license. readings anddialogue next Wednes­
"1 never invited Mr. Giancana to day in the Memorial Library come to Cal-Neva Lodge," Sinatra Auditorium. Ms. Collins is scheduled said. "I never entertained him and I to speak on Wednesday, Feb. 25 at 7 never saw him." p.m. also in the Library. 
Among those the board inter-The Emmy award-winning actress viewed recently were singer Phyllis , is currently making a movie about 
McGuire, Giancana's longtime girlfriend, Bunker said. Giancana was said to have1stayed in her bun­galow at the Cal-Neva Lodge while the McGuire Sisters performed there in july 1963. 
• • .Anorexia 
continuedfrom page 1 
problem, even when caught induc­ing vomiting. "The second reason anorectics are poor candidates for treatment, then, is that they deny their problem and become angry when confronted," she said. 
Asked to compare the incidence ofanorexia at Notre Dame to nation­al standards, Crosson stated. "Anyone manifesting the behavior here had it before she came here. Any maladjustive behavior has a hig­her probability of being manifest in an academic setting. The five to six percent ratio at Notre Dame is equal to the national average, she said. 
Crosson treated five anorectics last year, one of whom was a male. She said that he was self-claimed and that she suspected that he was not actually sick but only seeking atten­tion. 
The possibility that the problems involving the in loco parentis policy of the administration, pressures ag­gravated by limited social space, and keen academic and athletic com­petition prevalein at the University worsened the victims' plight was adamantly denied by Crosson. 
The clinic insists that any per­ceived anorectic be given a com­plete physical. "You must deal with the symptom because it is physically dangerous," Crosson said. "The physician handles the physical part, 
we  provide  one-to-one  psychot­ 
herapy."  
"Strict  confidentiality  is  main­ 

tained," she emphasized. "We must be convinced that a person is dan­gerous to herself or others before we contact her parents--then we don't hesitate at all." Ideally, she said, the illness would be treated in a family setting as it always involves the family. The psychologists urge the student to participate in family therapy and, if authorized, meet or speak with the parents periodically. "If the pathology progresses to the stage that hospitalization is im­minent, the student is sent home im­mediately," Crosson concluded. 
Kathleen was never sent home. On Saturday afternoon close friends gave up and notified the rector. Notre Dame Security searched the area and then contacted the O'Briens. The O'Briens found Kath­leen coiled in a fetal position in a corner of the attic which she had cherished as a child. Friday night, Kathleen had admitted to herself that she needed help. She had taken her wallet and photos and gone home on the afternoon train. 
Ms. Collins, creator of the Westside Preparatory School. Both Ms. Tyson and Ms. CoJl'. s were featured in the February issue ofEbony magazine. 
Several other nationally-known entertainers will make appearances during the month-long festival, a celebration of February, Black His­tory Month. The goal of the annual event is to "provide an awareness of the Black cultural experience, an un­derstanding of various aspects of Black life, and to focus on the ac­hievements and talents of Black Americans." 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, Notre Dame president, will attend the opening event, a gospel song program entitlecJ "Gospel: A Musical Praise," on Sunday. Several South Bend area churches will perform during the program in the Memorial Library Auditorium beginning at 7 
p.m. 
On Feb. 23 entertainer Gil-Scott Heron will be featured in a solo per· formance ofmusic and poetry in the Library Auditorium at 7 p.m. The unique sounds of the jazz Tatum Trio Plus will be performed in Washington Hall on Feb. 28 at 7 p.m. 
Notre Dame students will make their on-stage appearances Friday, Feb. 27 at 7 p.m. in the Student Talent Show. Concluding the festival events will be a student fashion show with the theme, "Welcome In­to My World." The fashion show will be on March 7 in the Monogram Room of the Athletic_and Convoca­tion Center at 8 p.m. Ticket prices will be announced. 
Events other than the fashion show arc free. All events are open to the public. 
Chairpersons ofthe thirteenth an­nual festival are students Darlene Sowell, junior from Columbus, Ohio, and David Terrence, junior from New Orleans, Louisiana 
:rHE GRADUATE STUDENT UNION..,....•.a. 
-·~ 

•...... presents •.... • 
.... ......
.. .
""' 

WALT UNTIL D(\RR··.... 
.... .... .. .. 
..... .. .. 
STARRING .. AlJQR~ HEPBURN
.. .. 
.. Feb~ary 13' and 14 
...... .... ........ 
•.~~:.•at 7,9,11 pm •....
..... .... .. .. 
....•Engi~ring Auditorium .. 
.. f. ~ 
r........-~dml§sion $1.00.... •• 

The Observer Thursday, February 12, 1981 -page 5 
Guarantees socialism 



General heads government 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) -Army general Wojcicchjaruzclski was for­mally approvt·d as prime minister by the Polish Parliament yesterday to provide what party chief Stanislaw Kania called the best leadership at a time "when the blal·k douds ofdan­ger arc over Poland." 
Jaruzclski, who retains his post as minister of defense, immediately issut·d a communique to Poland's armed forces noting his dual roles and pledging that Poland's armed forl·cs, "In brotherhood ofarms with the Warsaw pact allies," would guarantee a Socialist Poland. 
Jaruzclski, S7, is a four-star general an<,! Soviet-trained career military man. The party's Central Committee on Monday nominated him to rcplal·c jozefPinkowski, who became prime minister in a govern­ment shakeup durin~o~ last summer's nationwide strikes. 
su 
sponsors contest 
The coffeehouse is a ncar reality but it nt·eds a catchy name and c::mbkm. The Studl·nt Union is sponsoring a logo design contest with a S2S prize for the winning sclcl·tion. All designs should be sub­mitted on 9 x 12 paper to the secretary in the Student Union office on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. Deadline for all entries Is Monday. 
McBrien 
•



wtns award 
Ctllbolicism, a two-volume work 
treating the development and con­
tinuity of theological thought in the 
Roman Catholic Church, has won a 
Christopher award for its author, 
Rev. Richard M,·Brit:n. 
Chairman ofthe Tht•ology Depart­
ment at the llnivrsity ofNotre Dame, 
Father McBrien, a prkst of th 
diocese of Hartford, Conn., also 
holds the Crowley-O'Brien-Walter 
chair at the llniversity. Catholicism 
was published in May, 1980, by 
Winston Press In Minneapolis and 
has sold more than 2S,OOO copies in 
hardcover. A papt·rback edition will 
be Issued this summer. 
Christopher awards arc given an­
nually for hooks, 11lms and television 
prodlKtions that affirm the highest 
values of the human spirit, exhibit 
artistic and technical proficiency, 
and gain significant public accep­
tance. Fatht·r McBrien and other 
award winners will be honored at a 
ren·ption February 26 in New York 
City. 
~***************
! Anyone interested * * in applying for : ~ the position of ~ 
**************** 
:1982 Yearbook~ ~Editor-in-Chief E ~************** * 
* piease contact ~ * ~ Meg * 
* Klingen~erger ~ *~ at 7085 or 8085 * * *~
:*by February 28 
~**************:¥­
The appointment of Jaruzelski, who has been minister ofdefense for 12 years and appeared before Parlia­ment in full uniform, was seen as a message of reassurance to the Soviets and other Warsaw pact allies. They have been sharply critical of the indepe_ndent trade unions formed after last summer's strikes and have accused some union leaders and dissident advisers of staging a "frontal attack" on the Polish Communist party. 
The criticism and the massing of Soviet troops along Poland's borders have raised fears in the West that the Kremlin might intervene in Poland as it did in Czechoslovakia in 1968 following a period of economic and social upheaval there. 
But the government appeared to be sending a message ofreassurance as well to Polish workers who may be concerned that the reshuffle might signal a crackdown against the inlkpendent trade unions. 
Delivering a speech before Parlia­ment officially nominating Jaruzclski for prime minister, First Secretary Kania described the army general as having "always opposed actions leading to social te!ll'ions, 

If you're really in love... nothing's going to stand in your way. 
"One of the best films of the year." 
-Andrew Sarris, VILLAGE VOICE 
"One of the most enioyable movies of the year." 
-Pat Collins, GOOD MORNING AMERICA 
"Richard Dreyfuss is first rate. Amy Irving is equally good." 
-Charles Champlin, LOS ANGELES TIMES 
"An out-and-out crowd pleaser that should captivate audiences on a grand scale. In Richard Dreyfuss and Amy Irving it has the most appealing of romantic teams ... the chemistry between them is exceptional. Lee Remick is outstanding." 
-Kenneth Turon, NEW WEST MAGAZINE 
"Exciting, authentic, and a great \ deal of fun ... an honest love story.'' 
-David Denby, NEW YORK MAGAZINE 
"Richard Dreyfuss, Amy Irving and Lee Remick give wonderful performances." 
-'-Joel Siegel, WABC-TV 

COLUMBIA PIGURES Presents ARASTAR/WILLIAM SACKHEIM PRODUQION 
RICHARD DREYFUSS AMY IRVING LEE REMICK ''THE COMPETITION'' SAM WANAMAKER Original Music by LALO SCHIFRIN Executive Producer HOWARD PINE ~ 
Screenplay by JOEL OLIANSKY and WILLIAM SACKHEIM Story by JOEL OLIANSKY Produced by WILLIAM SACKHEIM PG PARENTAL GUIDANCE SUGGESTEO<Ol Original Sound Track Album Directed by JOEL OLIANSKY from RA5TAR 0[]11X1LBYSTEAEO I"' 
soME MATERIAl MAVNOTIE suiTABLE FOR CHILDREN on MCA Records And Tapes. <= ,•., coLuMe'•"'cr~"":·~ :~~~.~;~~;:~.c ~ 
Coming soon to selected theatres 
and in a certain crisis he was not on­ly an andvocate, but in fact a sig­nificant mainstay of the line of political settlement and agreement." 
The statement referred to a wide­ly held belief here that both Kania and jaruzclski opposed the use of force to end last summer's unrest in Gdansk, headquarters of the nationwide strikes. Jaruzelski has been a member of the ruling Polit· buro for 10 year and has apparently developed a close relationship with Kania, who had b Politburo overseer ofthe state security apparatus. 
Kania also said the party expected Jaruzclski to show "openness toward social organizations and readiness to dialogue and negotia­tions with firmness in implementa­tion of social contracts and in exercising constitutional rights of the state's power." 
Meanwhile, leaders of the inde­pendent union Solidarity prepared for a meeting today in Gdansk to dis­cuss recent party attacks against the union and the Supreme Court's deci­sion Tuesday rejecting private far­
mers'  demand  to  register  a  
nationwide  Rural Solidarity  as  a  
trade union.  

Don Murda_y and Tara Kenney are among those students who an­
nounced their candidacyfor SBPISBVP last night. Pat Borchers and Rosemary Canino also announced their ticket for SBPISBVP. Or­.ganizattonal campaign meetings will be held today. (photo by Rac­
hel Blount) 
~--­

Thursday, February 12, 1981 -page 6





Editorials 
Clark flunks first test at state 
Maxwell Glen ' and Cody Shearer 
WASHINGTON Every the issues involved in U.S.­When asked to define strength, their students ask, "Teacher, if or two on the job and we'll find "C" and "D" student in America Brazilian relations. He knew not­Clark offered a textbook answer: the deputy secretary of state out if he's really a dummy." No should become a charter member hing about the British -Labour "Strength can be a lot of things­doesn't have any views on one asked Sen. Helms if he of the William P. Clark Fan Club. Party or the attitudes of Western economic, military and politi­defense spending or doesn't know preferred a mediocre doctor for 
President Reagan's nominee as Europeans toward the deploy­cal." the prime minister of South his next operation. deputy secretary of state, the ment of new U.S. missiles there. At day's end, Sen. Glenn Afric'a, why should I?" Clearly, President Reagan isn't second highest position in the . "We kept throwing him summed up the committee's Republicans on the Senate lookihg for mediocre representa­department, has demonstrated basketball-size questions to mood: "This has been one of the Foreign Relations Committee tion in the State Department. He 
that he knows less about foreign answer," explained Ohio's Sen. most unenjoyable days I've spent have some answers. Chairman wants Clark there to keep an eye affairs than any college freshman John Glenn, "and he kept missing in the U.S. Senate." Charles Percy (R-Ill.) believes on Secretary of State Alexander who regularly scans the pictures them." Surely, Justice Clark's tes­Clark's ability to work well wih Haig. Moreover, with Clark, in Newsweek. Like a teacher looking admir­timony proved one thing to every the president far outweighs his in­Reagan will have brought his old 
Clark told the Senate Foreign ingly on his favorite student, an school kid in America: It's not experience in foreign policy. Ot­governor's staff to Washington. It Relations Committee that he embarrassed Sen. Glenn finally what you know but who you hers, such as Sen. Sam doesn't matter to Reagan whether hadn't sought the job, was un­turned away from factual ques­know that counts. Hayakawa (R-Calif.) believe in Clark confuses Zimbabwe with a familiar with its jurisdiction and tions to seek Clark's opinions on And Clark's history is a testa­on-the-job training. new strain of athlete's foot. would be taking a salary cut -such subjective topics as nuclear ment to that fact. He was Ventura "I didn't know anything when I It may be inexplicable to "A" "because the president asked me proliferation. (Calif.) County chairman for started on the Senate Agriculture and "B" students why President 
Reagan's gubernatorial campaign Committee," said Hayakawa, Reagan would select a novice forto take this position." "At this juncture, I don't have a top policy position when inter­But his ignorance of even the a personal view," replied Clark. in 1966, became the governor's "but after-a couple of years I national order is changing somost elementary facts is a dis­Annoyed, Glenn then asked Cabinet secretary in 1967 and learned the subject well." 
rapidly. Yet, there's nothing like
Clark one of those "What was the then his chief of staff in 1968. Not But is a top policy-making posi­tion. Indeed, watching Clark's color of George Washington's bad for a guy w_ho never tion at the State Department the jumping to the head of the class white horse" questions: graduated from college and place for a novice? when you're the teacher's pet. 
grace to the Reagan administra­
confirmation hearing was like viewing a "3ollywood Squares" "What is the objective ot U.S. dropped out of night law school Sen. Jesse Helms (R-N.C.) rerun. foreign policy?" asked Sen. because of poor grades. thinks so. He defended Clark with The 49-year-old California Glenn. On the brighter side of things, the "mediocre people deserve Justice Clark paused, searched Justice Clark's endon;ement may representation" line.
Supreme Court justice admitted at the hearing that he didn't know the ceiling for an answer (like any have handed wayward students "Maybe it's a good idea to have Maxwell Glen and Cody the_names of the prime ministers school kid does when in trouble,) an excuse for not boning up on the a guy in the State Department Shearer are syndicated colum­
of either South Africa or Zim­and declared, "Peace through facts. But how are high school who doesn't know everything," nists who appear from tim~ to babwe. He was also unaware of strength." civics teachers to respond when said Helms. "Give Clark a month , time in The Observer. 
Realism allows for diversity of opinions 
Dear Editor, should not go unanswered. While I am surprised that in his years but I certainly do not remember assumption of rectitude which un­A letter to the editor by James I find many of DiMaria's com­of higher education, Mr. DiMaria seeing much agreement as to what derlies his opiniOn seriously 
DiMaria in Friday's Observer ments objectionable, (for ex­has not yet happened upon the no­"human nature" is. In fact, one of weakens the validity of his point. cnUcizing the paper's ample his assertion that Carter's tion that there is very little agree­my lessons here at Notre Dame I appreciate, but do not agree with "impractical" and unreasonable liberal policies led to the Soviet ment as to "how the world is." has been that there might not be DiMaria's views. I feel that there support of liberal candidates and. invasion in Afghanistan) the ex­However, I am glad to see that any agreement about what.. a is something unrealistic in his causes hils prompted this hortation that everyone "look at James has not wasted his time at ·"realistic" assessment of human 
myopic expectation that the response. A statement as the world as it is, and not as they Notre Dame being confused by nature is. world accept what he apparently presumptuous as DiMaria's I want to see it" forces me to write. opposing world-views and feels is a proper conception ofMy experience has been that
opinion. For one armed with the "the way it is." I have given these
there are few people who con­
knowledge of the way the world' observations with the realization
sciously act against their own
is, pedantic discussions and quib­that they are opinions only, and
conception of the way the world
Thx>nesbury 
bling about issues of philosophy, nothing more. Without absolute,
Garry Trudeau 

is. Adolph Hitler felt that he was
science, economics or art must be indubitable knowledge of reality, 
8ANNON~ 
7H15/SZEK& 8R£1YNCR .. 
\ 
IAJORSC. 
HE'S 
ALIVe. 
I 

looking at the world in a realistic
a tedious, yet amusing, affair. His one does himself a great dis­
manner, and he had strong sup­
University experience must simp­service in presuming (as DiMaria 
port from his countrymen and ot­
ly be one of reinforcement of apparently does) that he has such
hers in the world. Pope John Paul
previously held "truths," rather knowledge.
II feels he has the proper outlook
than one of broadening his world­I do not mean to say that all is 
on the world as well. Not wishing
view. relative, and that we can hold not­
to address for the moment the
Satire aside, DiMaria's hing as true. We all have our
question of which opinion ac­
questioning of the "practicality beliefs which are firmly founded
cords more closely with" reality"
and judgment" of The Observer's in what we perceive to be truth.
(whatever that is) let me ask the
endorsements contains a frighten­However, to assert that the
reader to look at the stark
ing element of rigid subjectivism. liberals of this earth are simply
polarization of opiniOns
To assert that a candidate or issue misguided idealists who lack the
presented here. Is this not tes­
is "out of touch" is to presume benefit of a conservative grasp of
timony enough to man's inability
some sort of "real understand­the real is to be ignorant of the 
to see the world as his fellows do?
ing" (I use the term with reluc­diversity of op1mon indis­tance) of the affairs of the world. criminately corralled by the term
It is contrary to the reality I per­
The reason there are news media "liberalism." The world might
ceive to wish the world to hold 
organizations, elections, debates, not fit into the con-
one opinion on any issue. Every
and competitions of any sort servative/liberal, "good
man cannot help but look at the 
seems to lie in the observation guy"/" bad guy" boxes we have
world as he perceives it to be. To 
that ours is not a homogeneoUs made for it.
expect the world to see itself" as world. As with most aphorisms, there
it is" does gross violence to my
Thi·s may come as a surprise to is some truth to the "walk a mile
conc-eption of reality.
Mr. DiMaria, but there has never in my shoes" adage. As a sugges­been a time in the world's history I realize that Mr. DiMaria's tion from one who feels he has no when "everyone looked at the main purpose in writing his more than a working grasp of the world as it is." opinion to The Observer was not real, let me ask that you, Mr. 
In order to bandy about terms so much to espouse a philosophi­DiMaria, and the rest of us here at such as "human nature" and cal position as to express his own Notre Dame take that walk. '·realistic" one had better explain political views and his frustration think we'll all be surprised by the himself...and with a little at less-than-i:npartial considera­number of" realists"' we meet. humility. Perhaps I have been tion of the presidential elections reading too many books lately, by The Observer. However, the Michael Case 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Sports Editor............ , .............................. Beth Huffman
Editor-in·Cbief..................................... Paul Mullaney Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Editor..........................................Mark Rust Features Editor.......................................Molly Woulfe 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Editorials Edltor..............................Michael Onufrak Photo Editor ...............................................John Macor University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colle~e. It does not necessarily Senior Copy Edltor.....................Mary Fran Callahan reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reponed Executive News Editor.........................Tom jackman Business Manager ..................................Greg Hedges as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinton of a News Editor ........................,. ......................Lynne Daley Controller.......................................................Jim Rudd majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views SMC Executive Edltor..........................Margie Brassil Advertising Manager...................................Mark Ellis of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and SMC News Editor......................................Mary Leavitt Circulation Manager............ ...............Beth Hackett the free expression of varyiog opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Production Manager........ ................john McGrath 
The Observer Thursday, February 12, 1981 -page 7 
Jackman apologist for Hesburgh? 
Dear Editor, 
In reply to Mr. Jackman's Feb. 
5 "Inside Thursday" column on 
Fr. Heshurgh. I must object to the 
author's characterization of the 
role and performance of our Uni­
versity's president. 
Mr. Jackman acts simply as an 
apologist for Fr. Hcshurgh, who 
from his words and deeds seems 
almost hopelessly. out of touch 
with the pulse of the University of 
Notre Dame. For example, one 
can only express alarm and confu­
sion at the circular reasoning by 
which Fr. Hcshurgh feels little 
obligation to off-campus students 
menaced by dramatically in­
creased crime in their neighbor­
hoods since they must he exposed 
to "the real world," while at the 
same time he vigorously defends 
University rules sheltering stu­
dents from "real world" condi­
tions trhough VIsitation 
restrictions and single-sex dor­
mitories. In fact, the very use of 
the term" real world" as opposed 
to University life indicates a vul­
gar conception of academic life as 
a world of illusion. which is cer­
tainly not a healthy bias for one of 
the world's educational leaders to 
possess. 
While it would be foolish to ex­
pect Fr. Hesburgh to be actively 
involved in all aspects of the ex­
ecution of Notre Dame's day-to­
day bus! iness, and while it cannot 
be denied that his international 
visibility and availability as a con­
sultant and advisor aitl the reputa­
tion and monetary well-being of 
the University, one must consider 
that not only do Fr. Hcsburgh's 
activities rctlcct on the Univer­
sity, hut that the condition of the 
school rctlccts on the efficacy of 
his presidency. 
Serious questions can be raised 
about the consistency of some of 
his world-wide activities (his 
membership on the board of 
Chase Manhattan and University 
ownership of stock in companies 
active in South Africa both ap­
pear to grant legitimacy and tacit 
approval to some very ques­
tionable activities), hut more cru­
cial to the argument presented 
here is the often unjust and in­
sensitive University administra­
tion he heads. One would hope 
that, as a prominent advocate of justice and Christian values, Fr. Heshurgh would be more con­cerned about the state of affairs at this institution. 
In three and one-half years at Notre Dame, I have seen time and time again the administration act almost on the basis of financial consideration, with little regard, and at times even contempt for the student body. The Univer­sity's stated goal of pursuing in­tellectual development in an atmosphere emphasizing social 
justice seems to have given way to an obsession with acquiring money (both on the part of stu­dents and administrators). Stu­dents here arc regarded as little more than apprentice capitalists preparing for their vocations docilely, mechanically, and un­questioningly. It seems that somehow controversial decisions affecting the students adversely are announced just before b'rcak, in hopes that the problem will be overlooked and all dialogue and interaction avoided. 
I do not mean to suggest that difficulties here should override Fr. Hcsburgn's larger concerns. But, perhaps unrealistically, I would hope that Fr. Hcshurgh would exhibit some substantive interest in the "real world" of the Univcrsit he heads, or demand 



P.O.BoxQ 
that his hired administrators do so. If this were the case, perhaps Fr. Hcsburgh would not need apologist articles like Mr. Jack­man's. 
Thomas Krueger 
Student Union ticket sale stili irks student 
Dear Editor, 
Docs the Student Union con­
sider .the Springsteen ticket dis­
tribution a system? The one 
"supcract" that came to the ACC 
through the S U this year was The 
Boss -a Notre Dame favorite. 
The Student Union expected a 
heavy response for tickets, so 
they should have been better 
prepared to handle it. 

My friends and I spent most of fbUSK LINE·UP our study day last semester at the Springsteen lottery, along with 

over 2000 other N D students. The scats <fvailable to students were 

The pieces that the band per­lottery was scheduled to start at not distributed according to the 
formed arc popular Gospel hymns 9:30, but by then the line outside lottery that we had to sit through 
still sung in many churches of all Stepan extended down the front for hours in order to get tickets! It 
faiths in the country. The style of sidewalk and along the roads ad­baffles me to think that intelligent 
the band has evolved from years jacent to the basketball courts. It college students could screw up of performing for Notre Dame was 10:30 before everyone even what essentially amounts to filling 
crowds, and the band tries to got into the crowded building! up seating rows sequentially by 
please the majority of the spec­Some were there until2:00. lot. It is too late to do anything 
tators in the stands, not just the Upon entering Stepan, students. Band members devote
about the Springsteen mix-up, but everyone was •given a lottery let's hope that the Student Union least hours daily to
at two number. We sat cramped together gets a clue as to how to distribute 
rehcrasals and are proud of their 
on the hard floor and tried in vain tickets fairly in the future. work. A callous, uninformed to study and keep our limbs from critic can do no justice to such a :·alling asleep, as S U workers Eileen Wirley group. 
called out random lottery num­Chval has written many other bers. The sooner a lottery number brutal articles in his career at the was called, the better the pick Chval articles Observer, and that paper is as number was. The best tickets guilty of poor journalism as he is were supposed to go to those with retain offensive by allowing him to continue in the 
the first picks. It did not work out same vein. Chval's articles are
tone , quality

that way. cruel and damaging. Such pelty My lottery number was the for­columns must be removed from tieth pick, and I requested main our student newspaper.
Dear Editor,
floor tickets. Undcr the Student 
Craig Chval's fierce articles at­
Union's "new and improved" 

tack inoffensive Notre Dame Rosemarie Lawrence 
lottery system devised especially 
people and organizations and of­
for the Springsteen concert, the 
fend many Observer readers. 

Not ready for aS U would assign scats according 
In the January 22nd Observer, 
to pick number and we could 
Chval publicly ridicules Paul 
choose our own actual scats, as 


foray into the
Broughton, the ex-co-captain ol 
was the usual lottery system. 
the cheerleaders who left the 
Still, according to the lottery only squad for academic reasons. In­'real world'thirty-nine students could have 

stead of clarifying the cheer­
ticket sets better than mine. Sup­
leaders' problems with finances,
posedly. 

academics, and status, Chval Dear Editor,Actually, my tickets wete for trivializes their difficulties. The As unsafe as we now feel on row fourteen, in the center of the terminology in the article-refer­campus with fre4uent dorm rob­
main floor. "Not b<l.d," you may 

ring to a cheerleader as the-boy­beries and a rapist on the loose itthink, considering the promoter next-door -is condescending. seems as though tl]_e Universitytook 200 floor seats away from 
The writO>r also displays an anti­will now invite some of us off S U distribution. But it is bad in 
Broughton/pro-Student Ac­campus into the "real world", as comparison with the seats that 
tivities bias through his piece as Father Hcsburgh would say.
number 696 got-row thirteen of 

he extensively quotes Dr. James I find it objectionable that the the same section! Sound unfair? 
McDonnell, Student Activities University will move me off­Read on! Number 59 received Director. campus when I have no desire totickets in row two of the center In fa'ct, there is no indication in go. I would gladly move o-c ifmain floor, while number IO's this article that Chval contacted both Father Hcsburgh and Father 
scats were in the hack corner of Mr. Broughton to confirm the Heppcn would join me, so we canthe tloor. Some students who statements that Anne Jane all get mugged, robbed and beatenwaited through four long hours of 

Dregalla quotes in the January 20 together.
the Iotter did not even have 
Observer article. Chval claims 

If a liberal education amountstickets waiting for them. Instead, that Broughton listed "any num­to such field trips into the "realtheir money was refunded. 
ber of sins committed by the Ath­world" I see why many peopleWhat happened to the system? 
letic Department against the prefer to stay on campus. If we allDistributing the best seats to the 
cheerleaders." Chval does not 

are eventually going into the " lowest pick numbers does not name the sins, nor did Drcgalla real world" why only the
arc 
seem to be too difficult-start in 
list them in her article. Dregalla 

males going on this excursion?
the center of row one and muve 
attributes most of the statements 

Don't females have to face the out and back as the picks get hig­
in her article to "the cheer­

"real world", or does the ad­
her. If the tickets arc not dis­
lcadcrs" and she quotes 

ministration still think they all gettributed according to the lottery 
Broughton in c•nly two incom­

married and stay home with the
SC!.JUCncc, then why have a lottery , 
plete phrases. · 

kids? 
at all? Why not just have students 
In another article printed in the 

Doesn't the Administrationchoose a· ticket packet out of a 
Observer last fall, Chval attacked 

realize that the high incidence ofbasket full of the Student Union the University's Marching Band. o-c combined their
crime withallotment? Or, why not skip the 
During the half-time of the 

lackadaisical attitude about stu­
lottery and just take everyone's 
Michigan-Notre Dame game the 

dent protection is the reason fororders and randomly match them 
band performed. a medley of 

the resurgence of dorm life? I amwith their tickets? The results 
Gospel hymns inCluding "The 

comforted and heartened thatwould be the same. 
Battle Hymn of the Republic," 

when Father Heppcn was ques­I can understand that there 
and this type of music did not ap­

tioned upon the latter statement were complications with the 
peal to Chval. He called the music 

he managed such an interested promoters, the ACC, and so on, 
"archaic" and the band's style and insightful "no comment." and that 4700 tickets were a lot for 
stagnant, displaying a singular Student Union to have dis­
disregard for university traditions 
Michael Duplessie
tributed. But I do not see why the and well-liked music. 

O>lumnist Daley misrepresents actual facts 
Dear Editor, 
I am writing this letter in 
reference to Lynne Daley's 
editorial entitled, "Aborted 
Morality." (Jan. 27) 
First off, let me say that I found 
the article unfair and a mis­
representation of the actual fact. 
Also, I point out Ms. Daley's 
attempt to separate birth control 
and abortion by asking, "If abor­
tion goes against the grain of the 
American psyche, then why is it 
such a popular alternative to 
preventive birth control." Artifi­
cial contraception and abortion 
arc not separate issues, they arc 
one in the same. As any Planned 
Parenthooder will tell you, they 
are both viewed as methods of 
"birth control." If one method 
(contraception) should fail to 
work, one can fall back on the 
other method (abortion). 
This emphasis on the first met­
hod not working is one aspect of 
birth control which is overlooked, 
for as far as I know, the only 100 
percent effective ml!lhod of birth 
control is abstinence. If the 
Church would give the go:ahcad 
on artificial contraception it 
would only increase sexual ac­
tivity amongst "single" Catholics 
and therefore, due to the fallibility 
Of modern COnlr<IL'eption, in­
crease our number of abortions. 
an increase which Ms. Daley 
seems to think that birth control 
can prevent. 

Finally, I would like to com­ment on Ms. Daley's pointed fin­ger towards the "black & white" Church not being "grey" enough for society. May I point out that it is the Church's duty to supply concrete guidelines, and it is our conscience which is to make. the final decision from these black & white directives, and thereby, act as our "grey" matter. The Church is not running in a popularity contest, hut is attempt­ing tosupply the best answers to today' s problems, regardless of what "most Americans" feel. 
In closing, may I refer to Ms. Daley's comment that "it is easy to argue that abortion is immoral and unjust. But no one is listen­ing." 
No one is listening, because people only listen to what they want to hear, which is apparently (and unfortunately) what you, Ms. Daley, are advocating. 
Brian Crouth 


Thursday, February 12, 1981 -page 8 


Features 

Blondie 

Autoamerican 
(Chrysalis) 
S
ince its incepuon, Blondie has been mistakenly labeled a "punk"or "new wave" band. These labels are only geographically and chronologically accurate, Blondie having arisen from the ashes ofGlitter Rock in the Bowery during the mid '70's. Stylistically, Debbie Harry and company have neverhad any affinity with the anger and rebellion that pervaded the punk movement. The band's role models are the legends who have made successes out ofstylistic diversity: The Beatles, The Stones, and especially Bowie. 
Blondie's newest alburn,Autoamerlcan, reflects the band'sconversance with different musical genres more than its four predecessors. Unfortunately, 
Autoamerlcan also provides fewer memorable rno· ments, fewer songs with that catchy pop hook and AM accessibility that has long been a Blondie trademark. 
The album opens with "Europa", which sounds more like a movie theme song than album cut. As the band's first recorded instrumental, "Europa" should provide the musicians with a chance to steal the spotlight from 
Debbie, but it doesn't happen. 
Producer Mike Chapman has overloaded the song (and the album) with orchestration that obliterates rat­her than enhances the band's sound. "Europa" ends with an unnecessary and annoying voiceover: Deborah Harry on the American love affair with the automobile. Debbie's narrative is intended to sound arty and analyti­cal, but instead comes aacross as pretentious foolish­ness. "live it Up", a bouncy disco number with catchy background harmonies, is light, Top-40-type fare, in stark contrast to the ponderous "Europa". 
The Debbie Harry-Chris Stein penchant for ex­perimenting with different musical styles has led to the Broadway-copped "Here's Looking at You". It's more a "ditty" than a song, appropriate for a soft shoe routine, and as an almost novelty item, should appeal to a wide variety oftastes.Autoamerlcan's first single, "The Tide is High" is one ofthose songs that grows more likable each time it's heard. The tinny sounding horns add a jamaican feel, but once again the superb musicianship ofthe Blondie men is drowned out by the tide ofthe or­chestra 
The dreamy trance of"Angels on the Balcony", combined with Debbie Harry's PetulaClark sound-alike and a riff.as captivating as the one in "Heart ofGlass" make it easily the best song on the album. More impor­tantly,"Angels on the Balcony" represents the next step after last year's Eat to the Beat. Blondie's first four al­bums progress from an uncertain effort from an un­skilled group ofmusicians (though most avid fans consider the first album the best) to the complex . guitar-keyboard intertwining and unique Blondie "sound" that had evolved byEat to the Beat. With the exception ofa few songs, most notably "Angels on the 
Balcony",Autoamerlcan is a step backward. 
"Go Through It", a rocker that successfully incor­porates the hom section evokes images ofa Ford Falcon with jacked-up wheels on a dusty stretch ofcountry road (and who can resist lyrics like "llove you honey, give me a beer"?). 
Side Two disappoints partly because ofits two in­decipherable jimmy Destri songs, "Do the Dark" and "Walk like Me". Ifthe man is tryingto make a statement, its meaning is lost in the chaos ofhis own vernacular, "Do The Dark" and "Walk Like Me". 
"Rapture" begins as an undistinguished bit offunk fluff; but turns into a tale ofa man from Mars eating cars, bars, and guitars. "Rapture", basically a reworking of The Sugar Hill Gang's "Rapper's Delight," is effective be­cause, for once, Debbie soundslike she's having fun and not taking her job too seriously. "T-Birds," a fast­moving, singalong type (sadly, bassist Nigel Harrison's only song on the album) is interrupted by an almost in­audible voiceover just as the song is gaining momen­tum. A child-like praise offlying machines, "T-Birds" could have been stronger on its own merits, but it's a solid tune that helps, rather than hurts the allium. 
"Faces" should have.been left at the piano bar as Ler­ner and Lowe's "Follow Me" should have been left in Camelot. They're acceptable tunes, but appear mostly as filler. Admittedly, Debbie Harry is the star Blondie, but ifshe wants entire songs all her own, she should make a solo record and not bill her self-indulgence as • "Blondie". She is only perpetrating the myth that she claims to discourage: The Myth ofDebbie Harry AS Blondie. It's probably not intentional; it's all done in the name ofart. 
Autoamerlcan is a lemon that doesn't live up to Blondie's potential The album is an overambitious ex­periment by the group that fails. Blondie probably won't lose many fans withAutoamerlcan, but the al­bum won't be a classic like 1976'sBlondte or sell as many copiesasParallelLines. There are enough bright spots inAutoamerlcan to indicate that there still may be hope for Blondie, ifChris Stein andjimmy Destri can part with their pretensiousness. Try again next year, guys. 
Duke Tumatoe : a South Bend favorite 
T
o the average Domer, rock music means Bruce Springsteen, Lynyrd Skynyrd, and little else. But if one were to ask the average South Bend resident who his/her favorite rock artist was, Duke Tumatoe's name would be bound to come up. You have never seen Duke's name on the Top 40 but, if you have ever been to the now defunct Vegetable Buddies, you have probably crossed his path. In fact, Duke played outdoors in front of the Rock at the beginning oflast semester. But Duke was a legend in the midwest long before then. 
Duke Tumatoe and the .All-Star Frogs is a bar band from Champagne, Illinois wi'th a cult-like follwing throughout the states ofIndiana and Illinois. Duke and his band pass through South Bend about once every six weeks, most recen'tly th~s past weekend when they played Mishawaka's The Music Box for three con­secutive nights. Duke's music is blues-based, fast-paced, and inflected with a comedic touch. Besides Duke's vo­cals and continuously imaginative guitar-playing, the band features the extended piano solos ofjames M. Hill and the solid rhythm section ofbass-player L.V. Ham-· mond and drummer Robin Steele. This past weekend's shows were just the kind ofuproarious, energetic, packages which Tumatoe enthusiasts have come to ex­pect. 
Duke entertained progressively larger crowds during each ofhis performances last Thursday, Friday and Saturday. Thursday's house was packed, Friday's was over-capacity, and Saturday's resembled a Notre Dame pep-rally with beer. While one is deservedly impressed by Springsteen and his marathon, cheerleader-like sets, Tumatoe is known for his sincere performances as well. Playing three, not two, sets each night (supplemented by a boisterous encore at each evening's end), Duke's concetts approach Springsteenesque length on a regular basis. And, while the musicianship is excellent, Duke adds an extra touch to the show through his stage antics and general weird demeanor. 
Though a previous commitment prevented me from witnessing the Friday extravaganza ( I subsequently in­terviewed several atendees), Thursday and Saturday evenings were spent in serious contemplation ofDuke, the All-Star Frogs, and the phenomenon ofthe Tumatoe legend. My conclusions shall appear below. 
Duke himself, bearded, completely bald on top, and attired in the ~arne blazing red shirt each night, inspires craziness and requires much audience participation. I'm not talking about clapping to the beat while the art­ist exhorts(read begs) the partisans to hum along to the tune; rather rowdy screams and yells in a semblance of unison. Duke's best-loved song, "Tie Me Up" is an ex­ample ofone such number. The tune, a tribute to bondage, is rendered in a hysterical manner by Duke with the audience joining him in the chorus (same as title). While most performerssucceed in elicitingonly a <;lull rumble from the on-lookers, the Tumatoe crowd is happy to oblige Duke with hoarse growls and enthusias­tic shouts. Dancingand standingon the furniture is also encouraged. 
Duke's other standards include his trademark "Red Pepper Hot" and the the barroom classic "Kansas City." The latter tune is frequently punctuated by the gospel­influenced electric keyboard work of Hill. Together with Duke, the two often trade-off licks and inspire each other towards higher pinnacles throughout their respective solos. 
While I detected a few Domers in the audience at both shows, the majority ofthe rabble was from Mic­hiana. One girl claimed to have seen the Frogs "at least ten times," aud there were several faces who caught all three shows. One can only conclude that Duke's follow­ing is growing and indeed approaches the religious here and other places like Bloomington, Indianaand down­state Illinois. With a new album out and the bigcrowds, Duke could soon go the way of Bob Seger who sprang from local roots in Ann Arbor, Michigan to the national top ten. He may even win over Domers. 
I 
Michael Onufrak 


Quiz Twelve: One-Hit Wonders 
L
ast Monday's quiz was interesting in that there were a couple of questions that almost anybody could answer -numbers 4, 6, and 10 -and a couple that almost nobody could answer -numbers 2 and 5. You will see what I mean when you check out the answers, which appear below this week's quiz. ; 
Or perhaps I should say quizzes. You have heard of, or more likely experienced, a Double Emil. Well, this week Ifeature a Double Neely. This week's quiz is, in essence, two in one. 
During the years from 195 5 through 1973, over two-thirds ofall acts who had one Top 20 single never had another, orare still trying to crack that elusive barrier again. Artists such as the Beatles, Elvis Pres­ley, the Beach Boys, and even two-hit artists like Rupert Holmes and Bobby Lewis are exceptions rather than the rule. 
USing the definition of a one-hit wonder as those who have made the pop Top 20 only once (so far), many performers you wouldn't expect to be in that category fit there. Each ofthe following a~ts, all of which have had much FM airplay, has cracked the rarefied atr ofTop 20 single success only once as oftoday: Yes ("Roundabout" in 1972); The Allman Brothers Band ("Ramblin' Man" in 1973); The Marshall 
Tucker Band ("Heard It in a Love Song" in 1977); Dir~ Str~its("Sult~s ofSwing" in 1979); Bruce Springsteen (yes, the Boss s only top 20 htt has been "Hungry Heart"); REO Speedwagon (the current "Keep On Loving You"); and Van Halen ("Dance the Night Away" from the sum­mer of'79). And, ofcourse, there are many more. J 
It may seem as ifno one new hits the charts th.ese days, but It seems that the percentage ofone-hit acts since 1973 is higher than in the past, thanks mainly to disco (remember Amii Stewart, A Taste of Honey, Sylvester, and France Joli ). 
I cannot end this discussion ofone-hit wonders without mentioning 
the ultimate of this breed, Debby Boone. Her 1977 record "You Light 
Up My Life" (who could ever forget?) spent 10 weeks at no. 1, and, in 
the process, became the biggest hit since theBillboard Top 100 chart 
came into existence in 1955. Since then, she has not even appeared in 
the Top 40, much less the Top 20. She has had a no. 1 hit on the 
country charts, true -but she hasn't been able to cross over. 
'Today's q4iz, as I mentioned, is a "double." Part I consists ofsome songs by one-hit wonders. Name the artist whose only glimpse ofpop­chart fame came with it. 
1. 
"I'm Doin' Fine Now" 

2. 
"Play That Funky Music" 

3. 
"Feelings" 

4. 
"For What It's Worth" 

5. 
"Telstar" 

6. 
"Mr. Custer" 

7. 
"I'm On Fire" 

8. 
"Nuttin' for Christmas" 

9. 
"Funky Nassau" 

10. 
"Dancing in the Moonlight" 



(Remember, all ofthe above were Top 20 hits on theBillboard charts at some time from 1955 to now. This leads me to a warning on number 7 abo.ve: two different songs with that name were recorded by one-hit Top 40 wonders. However, only one ofthose made the Top 20.) 
Pan II ofthe quiz is the opposite ofthe above. Here is a list ofone-hit wonders. Name their Top 20 hit. 
I. The Assembled Multitude 
2. 
The Edwin Hawkins Singers 

3. 
Zager and Evans 

4. 
Peoples Choice 

5. 
Loudon Wainwright III 

6. 
Mike Douglas 

7. 
The Silkie 

8. 
McFadden and Whitehead 

9. 
Ramjam 

10. 
Climax 



********* 

Monday's Answers 
( 1) Focus was the European group with the lead guitarist who knocked Clapton offthe top ofthe British polls Oan Akkerman). 
(2) Golden Earring had the Top 20 hit ("Radar Love," which I now realize I shoud have mentioned) and the controversial nude cover 
Moontan. 

(
3) Kraftwerk was the European group which reappeared on the disco charts in 1977 ("Trans-European Express") after their emer­gence in 1975 ("Autobahn"). 

(
4) Peter Frampton, o£Frampton ComesAlive fame, quickly faded. 

(5) 
Andy Pratt recorded "Avenging Annie." (Ifyou answered this right, pat yourselfon the back.) 

(
6) Klaatu was the mysterious Beatle-like Canadian group. 

(7) 
Ten Years After featured Alvin Lee. 

(
8) Blind Faith was, perhaps, the first "supergroup." (Someone cor­rectly pointed out that Crosby, Stills, and Nash came together about the same time -thus the "perhaps" in the actual question -but Blind Faith only released one album. CSN released more than that.) 

(
9) Moby Grape was involved in those crazy hypes, yet could not become a top-selling group. 


(I0)The Bay City Rollers made their U.S. debut courtesyofHoward Cosell. Their number one hit was the unforgettable "Saturday Night" (S-A-T-U-R-D-A-Y... ). 


The~-~~~==--=---=~-==-=--=-========================~ 



~C:.c:llC3l~=========================T=h=u=rs=d=ay=,=Fe=b=ru~ruy===12=,=1=9=81===p=a=g=e~9 
Molarity 
PSYCHOLO&Y ALLOWS Us TO IDENTIFY AND CATf60P.JZ£ CERTAIN BEHAVIORAL TfJJDENCIES. 
11AV I !MVE THE. NEP 


Campus 
•12-4 
p.m. -government career day: Iafortune student center ballroom. 

•12:
15 p.m. -meeting: club Italiano, faculty room, south dining hall. 

•4 
p.m. -rad lab seminar: "measurements ofphotochemi­cal transients," professor robert fessenden, rad lab. 

•7 
p.m. . lecture: "engineering and the law," dr. nicholas fiore, 356 fitzpatrick, refreshments served. 

•7,10 
p.m. -social concerns film series: "bound for glory," engineering auditorium, S.50 admission. 

•7:30 
p.m.-film: "if...," annen­bergauditorium, S I admission. 

•8 
p.m. -piano recital: joan mccarthy, piano (senior reel­tal), little theater, moreau hall,(smc). 

•8 
p.m. -"pippin," presented by the student players, washington hall, $2 admission. 

•8 
p.m. • "playwrights premier," little theater, moreau hall, ( smc ). 

•8 
p.m. -meeting: new or­leans club, Iafortune little theater. 



Pre-pros plan happy hour 
A happy hour for preprofessional students will be held 'friday in the Stanford Hall party room. The cost will be $1. Signups for the happy hour take place today and tomorrow in preprofessional office. 
Career Day offersjobs 
Notre Dame's Placement Bureau 
is sponsoring its fourth annual 
Government Career Day today from 
noon until 4 p.m. in the LaFortune 
Student Center on Notre Dame's 
campus. Representatives from 
agencies in both the federal and 
state government will be in atten­
dance to discuss the job oppor­
tunities available in their 
departments, both permanent and 
summer, with students ofall majors. 
Students from Notre Dame, Saint 
Mary's College, Indiana Univ~rsity at 
South Bend, Bethel College, and Ho­
ly Cross junior College are cordially 
invited and encouraged to attend. 
Enrollment cards 
due 

All present freshmen, sop­homores, juniors and those fourth year students in five-year under­graduate programs should have received information on advance enrollment through campus or regular mail, according to the Office of Student Accounts. Students who have not received such a mailing should stop in at this office before Friday. 
Friday is the deadline for all ad­vance enrollment cards and deposit checks to be mailed in, and is a re­quired procedure so that students may advance register in April for fall semester coursr.s, and so that re· quests for on-campus housing may be honored. Students must use regular mall, not campus mail, In returning their advance enrollment cards. 
I 
SUFFEf<s FRD/1 ASfR/tNG£
FOR EXAMPL£. FROM TESTS, 
PSKHOSIS WIJIOI/14NIF£5T..5
W£CAN 1>£TERI11N£ THAI 
11115 f>ERSON EITHER... 
IT.SELF IN tNtV/E AN/) 




The Daily Crossword 

© 1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
¥ANNOUNCING THE '81¥ SELECTION OF STUDENT UNION fRECTOR AND COJ.WPTROLLER.  
iC ..Won., Feb. 2 Applications available in the SU Offices ¥ .\1on., Feb. 16 Applications due 5pm ¥Sat., Feb. 21 Interviews and final selections GET INVOLVED! GET INTO NDSU!  

ACROSS 25 Venetian 1 Fast planes money 5 Strike­28 The count 
breaker of Monte 9 John­Cristo 

Passos 29 New England Ger. 22 Govt. agcy. 
12 Silvers or cape 
Donahue 30 Night: pref. 13 Desire 32-boy! 15 Split 33 Nabobs 16 Top-drawer 36 Charlotte 17 Lend-and Norma 
(listen) 38 Convince 18 Square 39 Neighbor 19 Manipula­of Ga. 
tors 42 Diva Maria 22 Hammed 44 Baby's 
it up ·father 23 Disinclined 46 Bitter herb 24 Freight or 47 "Scourge dining of God" 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 


2112181 

Michael Molinelli 

48 Mouth and 14 Walk house 15 Softens 50 Gambling 20 Teleost device fish 54 Village: 21 Benefit 
55 News:Sp. 26 Quarrels 56 Wheat flour 27 Was hurtingin India 31 Membrane 58 Bullring 33 Religionssounds · 34 "That-ye 59 Went know" astray 35 Mythical 60 "Ars longa, land of 
-brevis" riches 61 Skelton or 36 Filthy Buttons abode 
62 "In cor­37 Revised pore-" 39 Atone's 63 Maple wits' end genus 40 Vault window 
DOWN 41 Loser 1 Bath or Ems to DOE 2 Ziegfeld, 42 One of 
for one Macbeth's 3 Second­titles rater 43 Rhone 4 Winter tributary
hazard 45 Buchwald 5 Scathing 49 Tropical 6 Strobile fruit 7 Declare 51 Ermine 8 Globule and mink 
9 Amuses 52 Govt. agcy. 10 Across the 53 Baker's drink need 11 Seeing, 57 Swiss 
2112/81 et al. river 


Flowers 

will say it lovingly 
to your Valentine. 

Let Judy Blue and 
Jay Davis-Reed 
help you pamper 
your Valentine this year. 
The Blue Jays Nest 
Your florist in UNIVERSITY CENTER 6502 N. Grape Rd. Mishawaka 

277-6776 
Flowers sent anywhere • Visa • Master Card 

Thursday, February 12, 1981 -page 10
The Observer 

Rlv•t City R•cotda/C•I•btatlon Pt•••nt ftoM Eng~nd 



-tlf-& 
In concett! 

Sp•clal gu•st to b• announc•d 
Thurada!l march 12 -8:00 p.m. 
mo,la Civic Auditorium 
South B•nd 

Tickets: $9.00/8.00 all seats reserved, and now on sale at Suspended Chord (Elkhart), Butterfly Records (Warsaw), Karma (Fort Wayne), Good Sounds (Knox), J.R.'s Music (LaPorte), Recordland (Benton Harbor) and all 3 River City Records (South Bend & Michigan City). 
CONSIDERING A LAW CAREER? A representative of 
SOUTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW ABA/AALSlos Angeles 
will be on campus on 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 16 1-3p.m. ND Placement Bureau 213 Administration 283-8342 
Underclassmen welcome, as well as seniors 
graduate students. Applications will-· to be accepted during the spring. If you would J.J.ke to learn more about the profession , the law 
school experience, and the application process, please arrange to meet with our representative by contacting the Placement Bureau. 
SouthV:estem University School of Law has seJVed  ~  
the public. since 1911 as a nonprofit, nonsectariar  
OOucat.lonal mstJtUtJon. &luthwestern University  
does not discriminate on the basis of race,color,  
.  • religio~, nat_ional or. e~nic origin, or han<licap  ...........  
m connection wnh admL't'iaon to the school, or in  --­ 
the ddministration of any of its educational,  
employment. financial aid, scholarship, or student  
activity programs.  

• 
Blue Wave takes tourney 
By BETH HUFFMAN 
Sports Editor 

The Blue Wave, a United States Volleyball Association club consist­ing of nine Saint Mary's students, took first place at the Leydon In vita· tion in Chicago last weekend. 
"They played the smartest game 
I've ever seen them play," said Erin 
Murphy, head coach of the Blue 
Wave and Saint Mary's varsity vol· 
leyball team. "They have really 
progressed. Talcn·t-wise you are not 
going to win on power and muscle 
because everyone has it, you win on 
your knowledge ofthe game." 
The Blue Wave remained uri­
defeated in five straight matches to 
win the Division A, six-team tourna­
ment. In the championship match of 
the round-robin, single elimination 
playoff tournament, the Blue Wave 
soundly defeated the Suburban Vol­
leyball Club ofChicago 11-4 and 11­
6. Tournament matches were determined on the best of three games to 11 points. 
"A couple of players had an out­standing tournament," said Murphy, who founded the club last year. "Rosie Whalen completely dominated the net both offensively and defensively she was 
phenomenal." 
Whalen, a freshman from Tampa, Fla., will be announced as the Most Valuable Player of Saint Mary's var­sity fall team at an upcoming ban­quet. 
"Mary Dempsey set for the 

majority of the tournament and did 
the best job I've seen her do for the 
whole year. She was terrific," con· 
tinued Murphy. 
This weekend the Blue Wave will 

compete at the. Mathis Invitational 
to be held in Turnner's gym in South Bend. The club will then host its own 1S·team USVBA women's tournament on February 21 in the Angela Athletic Facility at Saint Mary's. 

"Last year our team tied for third at the regional championship, which in our region ofthe USVBA includes Indiana and Michigan., but our goal is to take first this year." 
The Blue Wave members include Peg Pieschel, Mary Beth Hosinski, Mary Dempsey, Rosie. Whalen, Marianne Viola, Amy Scheel, Heidi Krumdieck, Amy Morris and Denise Drake. 
Btg Ten race tightens 

ByJOE MOOSHIL 
AP Sports Writer 
There's little hope of completely unscrambling the~ jumbled Big Ten basketball race, but keep an eye on Indiana's Hoosiers who have made a habit of strong finishes in recent 


N.D. PARTY HEADQUARTERS 
American Vodka $4.59 1 liter Blatz Beer
$5.99 24 nr Lancer Vin Rose 

$3.99 750 mi. 
Red, White, and Blue Beer 

$5.98 
years. 
Indiana dropped a 68-66 decision Saturday at Purdue, and that knocked the Hoosiers out of sole possession of the Big Ten lead and into a three-way tie for first place with Michigan and Iowa. 
There are eight games-left in the conference race, and Indiana takes on last·placc Northwestern tonight before traveling to Wisconsin on Saturday. The Hoosiers will be favored in both contests and a double victory could get Bobby Knight's charges rolling again. 
Last year Indiana won its last six games to capture the Big Ten title. In· 1979 Indiana won four ofits last fiv_e and then won four more to capture the National Invitation Tournament crown. In 1978 Indiana won its last eight conference games. 
Four ofIndiana's final eight games are on the road, but only two arc against contenders. The tough dates arc at Iowa Feb. 19 and at Illinois March 5. 
And the Hoosiers arc on target statistically. They lead the Big Ten in scoring defense, allowing only 57.7 points a game, and arc ahead in field goal percentage, hitting on 53 per­cent of their shots. 
While Indiana figures to retain its share ofthe conference lead tonight against visiting Northwestern, Iowa journeys to Minnesota where the Gophers, 5-S in the Big Ten, must win to keep alive their hopes of gaining a berth in the NCAA tourna­ment. 
Michigan is at home, but the surprising Wolverines, ranked 13th nationally, face a tough Ohio State team which either makes a move soon or goes down as one ofthe big disappointments in the conference 
race. 
Indiana, Michigan and 14th­ranked Iowa all have 7-3 records to share first place, but they arc only one step ahead ofOhio State, Illinois and Purdue who arc bunched at 6-4 . 
• • .Eady 
continuedfrom page 12 
IC4A's as a turning point. 
"I told mysclfthat after I broke 48 seconds, I'd consider myself a good runner," says Eady. 
"He ran a 47.5 fully automatic time in the quarterfinals against some superb runners," says Kel­ly,"He came back an hour later and ran a 47.7 in the semis and finished fifth, but only the top four make it to the finals. That was the day that real­ly boosted his confidence." • 
Jacques' future looks as bright as his past. Says Aragon, "I think everyone should keep their eye on jacques Eady, because he's going to be a great one." Just don't expect to hear it from him. 

Thursday, February 12, 1981 -page 11
The Observer 

Racquetball Pairings 
Rt·!l"li ( I 6~4 ) l'nwt·r ( 6 71 HJ vs. ~:hmlth ( 1602) Wolfr ( 1670) r>kakinl!. <:ampdl ( 1161) vs. ,lat·kmari ( 11'127) YounJI ( 234·,HOI ) Phillip ( 17~2) tloviR ( I ~47) \'S. llt'U!kr, <:ymhaluk ( I HOl) Martinn ( H<•4<>) Johnston ( H6.H) vs. Pinn· l'fau ( 142·1) O'llrit'll, O'llrlcn ( 2.il·ZH.i~) vs. Kirn (.H79) lkan (H71.i) llrassartl (B2·2~7H) Onufrak ( 233· 6H') I ) vs.J;wr.man ( 3260) llrown ( 3264) 
\\'(IMEN'S RAQUETI!ALL UIAMI'IONSiliP 
Muller, llan><m (71) 1~) v.. Schrniu. Rohln"'" ( .B~2) 
Wrestlers prepare for regionals 
wrestlers, sophomore 126-pounder classic, the Irish finished fourth in
Having cancelled the remainder of its dual meet slate, the Notre Mark Fisher (Buchanan, Mich.; 13-9-1979 and third last year. Going into 2 record) and juniors Curt Rood Monday night's match with Air
Dame wrestling team has one tournamCHt left in preparation for (Sturgis, Mich.; 9-12-1) and Brian Force in Colorado Springs, the Irish 
this year's NCAA Western Regionals, 
Erard (.Reston, Va.; 7-13) at 134 and were 6-8 in dual meets.. to he held at Indiana State Univ<;rsity 
I 58 pounds r.espectively. Fisher, who finished fourth in the on Friday and Saturday, Feh. 2V and 
"We have so few regulars left in National Catholic tournament two the lineup that it isn't really worth it weeks ago, placed third in the I I H·
28. The Irish travel' to Wheaton, Ill., 
for a team to wrestle us in a dual pound division of last year's this weekend for the 44th annual meet," remarked Brother Joseph Wheaton Invitational. Rood, who Wheaton Invitational wrestling Bruno, currently completing his first failed to place in the National 
tournamen~. Preliminary action is year as Irish coach. "We will have tc Catholics, placed third in the I 26­slated for Friday, Feb. 13, with quae· rely on the Wheaton Tournament to pound class of the 1979 Wheaton terfinal, semifinal and final matches work on and refine the talents of a tourney as a freshman. 
scheduled for Saturday, Fe h. 14. few of our wrestlers before the Bruno will probahly call on fn·sh­The Irish lineup has been reduced upcoming NCAA tournament." man)oe Agostino (South Bend, Ind.; further to only three regular Champions of the 1978 Wheaton 10-4) at 142 pounds . 

Applications for 
Observer 
postttons are due 
... 

Monday 
----------------'--------------------------------------------.--, 
All r:lits~dH::>rl .tds musr be reren,e<Jbv 4 45 p n. twr> davs prr.Jr 10 the ISSIJPI n wt·1rch thP ad 1S run The Obser\ler (.!/f,.:e wriJ rtcrcpr c'.t~srf1cds Monri.Jv !hrnr1qh FrtO.l\. 1~ 00 a rn 10 5 00 p m •\II classtfnH1!o "•u~t bL•
Classifieds Pfl'·Prtttl 1'1:l1pr lr'l PI'ISO/l Or thrOIJgh Th~ rnt~rl 
..................................................................... 
To the llonorabk WIZARD OF OIISERVER STAFf: 
DearJohn Paxson, Promises made at 2 a.m. arc easily ORION, Elcctrkal<·urrents may no! Just a word of thanks to all who 
LOST .. A'• SII.VER JIRACEI.ET I NEED MANY DAYTON TIX, STU· 
WATCII-CALI. TERESE AT l77-H037 DENT AND GA·-PI.f.ASE CAIJ.IIETH broken. We apologlzt• again. Next he abk to hridl!e Raps( I'm still not supported m<· In the cdl!<>rlai dt'C·
[NoTICES>=] 
REWARD ISS IS AT 171 S OR 277·8037. 
Thursday for sure. really sure why). hut your spirits ha.' tion. I appredatc: your ~how of failh Kathy buill a bridge he!wem our two lives, in me:. Togc:tlu:r Wl' i.·an makt· itI'ROI'IiSSIUNAL TYPING. Tt·rm I.OST: ONE SET OF FOllll KEYS ON need tickets to Viginla Ram<· call 
Margaret Happy St. Vakntlnes Day, Sadyre wurk. 
papcn., thc!'lt'!t, t•tc. Tape: tran5o(..'rlp­RING WITJl LEATHER TAll AT­.i630 
John M<·Gra!h

!ion. 1.;~.•! yt·ar's sarnt· low prices. All TACHED. I.OST I.AST SATURDAY. 
THE DATING GAME... I'RIJ)AY NIH
Mama Garafalo, Thanks for satisfying my ap· IN TilE DILLON PARTY ROOM. nuzzt•r, \\'IJfk Muarantt•t•d. aarc..lvark PLEASE CALl. MARTitA AT ZH72 IF Need 4-6 ND-Dayton GAs. Call 
automalk solutions. 2HtJ·67~.i. FOUND. Monka at 41-~1 H petite!??? 
CONTESTANTS CHOSEN AT RAN· You know whu callc:d.Shc: ~aid In tdl Name Withheld DOM FROM TilE CROWl>. Hi:OO · you that th"· ahus(.·r know~ th;U you
Nil foothall photoRraphs nccdrd for Moose Control needs many Virginia 
P.S.-Ilow's that for obs<..·cne?~ l:OO. know who is writing the: nmt'~.Thus
spl.shy foothall book l'lay·actlon, tlx. llavc dogsled, will travel -but
[fORRENi-·J 
.....................................................(............... cndc.·th the: abuM:!
!rth.kllnc~. fans.tht· works. Color, h/w. n.:ed ducats. Call Bruce,. john or 
____... HAN TilF. IIAGPIPES TIIEAIHISI;R
Any foot hall era hut must hc ahlt· to --·-·------Ryan at 11661. Thanks. T•> the guy "Ahead of his times" Identify. Pt·r prr pho!u used. Photo Available for next st·hool year: 2 fivt·· 
-Thanks for the 
Heurdtymundorunidcicidcici!!!!!! TRH. DRI, & TEE, Dc:ar no longer infatuated, I'Li.I.OVF. YOll 4-EVf.R. CEE crrdi! Riven In book. Submit nm!a<'! hedroom huust·s, near Nl>, least·, 
!ttht·cts or ponfoUu to Icarus Press, deposl!, B4·2626. 
When's Baja? I! Is already february. 
flux I I, Ncur<· Dame ( 29 J..UOO) lly the way, do you know where you Happy Valcnlirll'S Day! I'S WE'I.I. GH YO!I G. Love. MARIE &JP.
are???

ffoust·s for rent 81-82 Sl'hoof year. 
...............................................:.:................... 
Slili lnfatua!t•d

Wll.l. 1>0 TYPING. RliASONAIII.I' Gd. <:ond., dose: to campu~. secure. 
JIOOKSTORE HASKETIIAI.I. P.S. You still owe: me: a tennis game:!
RA Tl~~. C.AI.I. 2H7-~ IC>2. Beach .................................... 1Ill(> miles lkn·'s another mooSl' juke: to m:akt·
furnished. Call B ~-6779 alter 6 p.m. 
CEIJo:IIRATES ITS TENTH ANNIVER· 

you lose your lund1: SARY THIS YllAR ... ROOM I~ I MOR· 
T..,...................... MORRISSEY RAT. Q: In what sta!t' do Yukonians spt·nd
HEY TOMATO HEAD RISSF.Y ALSO Clii.EIIRATES ITS IIAI'PY I<Jth'. IN MARCil WE CAN rheir ~umnu:r vacations? 
NI;W JliR.~EY CJ.IIIl IILIS. Tm: NEW NEAR ND. SPARKIJNG I IIR CON· 
FROGS ONE DAY, PRIESTS l'HE TENTII HIRTIIDAY AS' A SHRINE! REAI.I.Y CEI.F.IIRATE -I.INTII. THEN, A: Moo~l··i~o.;ippi (or 1!'1 H Moose· JERSEY Cl.l/11 Will. IIJ; RUNNING DO. NF.W WASIIER·I>RYER, CAR· 
NEXT: HOW COlll.l' YOU ASK FOR YOU'VE STILL GOT TONY, RONNIE ourl?)
llliSI;S I'OR SPRING IIREAK. TilE PORT. KT. AI'I'L. I.AKE, POOL. 
JIIISES Wll.l. Jli;PART MARUI l.i CLIIIIHOIISE. 2W·'>~H9 Al'l'ER ~. MORE?
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS COMI'ASSIONATEI.Y YOURS ANI> EI.VIS... WI-IAT THREE HETTER ( Thb joke courtesy of an Ob·FROM TilE C:CE ANI> Wll.l. ARRIVE RINGS, SlO-SH~ OR MORE. WF. 
ROOMIES COlll.l) YOll ASK FOR? sc:rvl·r features writl·r who wish"•s tuIN J:AST IIRIINSWICK AND N.Y.C. 
MAKE IIOUSE CALLS. 2SS·2402. I lUGS ANI> KISSES! rl·modn anonymous as ht• slowly and
[ ·---···--·-·---] 
HEY RM 2 FISHF.R! "IIIAWATIIA" OF AGGIEI.ANI> quietly lo~cs huth cn:attvtty andRESERVATIONS MAY liE MADE ON 
WANTED Thanks for the company Tuesday
SUN.. fi:JI I~ al 7P M. IN LA SOCIAL CONCERNS Fll.M SERIES sanity.)
FORTUNE JIAI.LROOM. A 173 FF.F. ----------niKhl -!o be continued Saturday
CONTINUES THIS WEEK WITII 

janc·o. Moust· Conrrol
night??? You guys !lEST be myWill pay ss for lloswn II G.A.'s on what the heck is RoinRon? why art· MIIST liE PAID AT TillS TIME. 
"BOUND FOR GLORY" 

Valentines, 'cause I'm rough and feb. 10. Call Tracey ~206 ( SMC) you avoiding me? is it my breath? is it
tough and could beat anybody up.
AVON Rl'l' ON CAMPUS-PATTI Kelly
............. r...... . ......................... . my obnoxious auitudl'? is It my To th<l\l' Owt·nsboro-hounc.Jed: Eat,
llappy Vaien!lnes Day!
7971 OR 233·774,\ EVENINGS 
roses are red

IIELI'' I Need Ritlt· 10 Madison fEll K. frknds? or the: lack of therein? tdl DRINK. and be "marry" with RA andMAKE·III' JI;WHRY DAILY NEEDS violt·ts an: hluc
13 CAI.I. 234·0233 me:, tell me, tell me! friends!
P.S. llappy 21 s! Rich!
If you'll he my valcn!lne 
S<..'l)()Jl

John -for morality's sake, don't cat Need rldt· 10 lndpls. Can lcav<· l'ri I'll 1!0 publle too! l.cslic· major l'OUl'h ;action?
IX>N'T W AJ.Jo;. ALONE!!! 
any mort'! Ul ~ <>r Sat. Calll'<tm 13<>1 lynne,
Gtn' AN ESCORT'!! 
l.uv. LEO S!utknr F.st·or! St·rvil'e· On-Call Sun 
P.S. You did much het!er than 

had any Rood koob lately? I like NliGGIE·IIliRGERS and Is!
Moose Control Is gelinl! out of hand NHI> RIDE OR RII>ERS TO IN· moderately well!! scoop Hour library! 
!o Thur. 7 to Midnil!hl. Call 62H3 -adangcroius situation! Yesterday,(OIIlll>) AI !hr NJ> Ubrary 10 to I>IANAPOUS TillS WEF.KF.ND. 
two Moose: jokes with liSF.IT!!!II! the same punchline -and I! had 
I I A~ pm Ail s!Udl'll! Volun!rt•rs. OPF.N A DOOR TO THE SOP· there were 
MARK l.H-5717. smc women, when defensive, arc Crute.: he..·~ plu!o~ Corhy'~ l'tJuals l.ovt· HOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAl. just obnoxious smc.· chkks and
been used before at that! Control has TilE NEW JERSEY CLIIII IS RUN· hecome careless, sloppy ill his work. deserve every!hinR they Rt'l, whkh J<·annc-Jia · wherr did all th<· bruises NING A SPRING IIREAK IIliS TO N.J. I am watching. is usually nothing. smt· womc:n, l'Omt· from? AllliSE! 
DON'T liE AI' AID TO C:AI.I.' 
THE FULJ'ILI.MENT OF THE 

ANI> NY.C. COST WILL liE 73.00 PROMISf>.DEPENDS ON FAITII.. ( :aptain Axt• when honest and sociable, arc just
I'REE l/NIV~:R~ITY 
ROUND TRIP. SIGN-LIPS ARE ON nice girls, and deserve to be.· treated Uuw many rooms ts rhc: lntl annualMlxoloRY" The thursday t•venhtg SUNDAY FEJIRliARY I~ AT 7:00P.M. SMC'S LOVE PEOPLE!! with respect and frkndship. why an· llratly Bundt llappy Hour in? I~~
scl·tion!'l will mecl al lhcir u~ual cindy, annie:, hc:ath,:r, jo anne,
IN I.AfORT!INE IIAI.I.ROOM. thc.·rc so many of the former, and su
carvlyn, barh, katie, colleen! what's
tlmc!t In Kt·cnan's ba.'it."mcnt. Only 
liKING A CHECK OR CASII. DON'T IIEY ............... SMC'S ARE PEUPI.E, TU! few of the Iauer? ·
Mikt··Bahy l•n'! Do l'JlOUI!h In ke~p
up next girls? HVD!!!! LOVE YOU FORGET! you from passlnt~ nul ( fallinR askrp)
thoSt· who rqp•!ercd may auend. 
OOPS. TWO...OOOPS, TOO!! Motkrn Dant·e:Technique.. normal 
ALL domer girl 

SEND A SINGING VALENTINE. during a movit:?
thnr, 219 Roc:knt· Mem. 
I desperately nt·etl a ride to lluffalo,

NF.ED RIDE TO IIIJFfALO 0" FF.II AVAII.AIILE THURS. AT BOTH
PREPROfESSIONAL STUDENTS:
............................................. 
NY on Feb. 26 or Feh. 27! Will share

IH OR I<Jth p(J;ASF. CAI.I. MATT AT DINING IIALI.S. S. 7~ FOR PHONE IIAPPY IIIRTIIDAY NANCY RYAN!!!. 1787 Come to the IIAPPY IIOIIR in Stan· 
drlvinR and expenses. Call lle!h a! CALL, SI. ~0 IN PER.~ON, AND SliNG
fordllali this fRIDAY from 4-6 I'M! 4629. IIY MEMBERS OF THE NOTRE llappy l2ntl. llAJIYCAKES!!!
ILOS!(FOUND] 
Need a ride to llulfalo, NY on Feb. 26 DAME CIIORALF.. love.·, tlu: Sl'X)' M'VCn
IJF.Y PREI'ROfESSIONAI.S! PARTY 
.............................................)....................... or Feb. 27. Will share driving and ex· Join the llaRplpe 8oycot!. 
DOWN AT TifF FIRST OF MANY 
I.OST: ONE PAIR Ot' MF.N'S GI.OVI:S penses. Call Beth at 4629. ...............................................................1..... HEY CARE, Jirnl>uuR. Yahoo, Spol. Ace, 1>-llob,
HAPPY IIOliRS THIS FRIDAY IN ON ST. MARY'S Slll/11'1£ IIF.IGE Goode Is bad. IF YOU READ TilE PAPF.R, Hawk. anti ll!aaah x 2: Vaknlinr
STANFORD IIALL FROM 4-6 PM!!! WITJJ IIROWN SIIEI>Ii FACING. IF WANTED: riders 10 Syacuse NY area Jim Goode for UMOC YOU'I.I. FIND OIIT YOU 1>0 GF.T kis.tst·~ hc:ing illTl'ptc.·d now throul(h fOUND. Pl.r:ASE CALL 808JIY I0611. feb. 13. Call IHI I fur info. SOME PERSONALS. YEAH, THIS IS A Saturday.
A PF.Rff.CT VALENTINE'S DATE!!! 
To Barbara ANN Rafalko.... hey, PERSONAL!!!! 
love.·' l.yons lir~t TAI.ENTF.D, EXPERIENCED, nurse, explain 10 all of your friends LOVE, ME......... . 
Come sec Dr. Zhivago at SMC's Car· noor 
roil Hall. Friday and Saturday.I.OST: REI.IGIOIIS MEDAl. IN I!ABYSilTER NEEDED fOR ND about your V.I.C. physical !herepy!!'! ANNOliNCIN{; TilE NliW OR·
February 13 and 14 at 7:00 and I0:30 ROCKNE MF.MORIAI. ON PRO~'S CIIILD. 2 OR ~ MORNINGS And remembcr,l always slick before PATSY .. LEANS CUIII !II! l!s firs! rnct·!lnR will
p.m. (This is a lonR movie, so you ean 
TJHIRSI>AY. l/l9. SENTIMENTAL I'ER WEEK. MUST HAVE OWN I I!C! stuck... love, rls YOU'RE TilE BEST. he 9:00 !hur>tlay in the l.il!k Thcatrr
probably squeeze(?) lots of Valentine's Day ac!ivitlcs in during
VAI.IJF.. CAI.I. IIARRY AT 2140. TRANSPORTATION TO HOME ONE HAPI'Y IIIRTHDAY, OLD MAN!!!!!!! in l.aFununc.·. Or l'ontal·t John ;u MII.E FROM UBRARY. PI.EASE CAI.L Anl!eli!a Sleeper. H714
the show.)I.OST: 8UIF. DOWN JACKET AT 2-6PM. 277-1761 THREE-FOUR S lluRRc!lt off 8ozl!a! janc·o, SENIOR liAR WF.I>Nf.SDAY. PU;ASF. dao, got your nasty lt·ttcr. no <..·ommcnt. ll~s!iality JiVl'• in room .U4 llol)'
ITS REALLY IIERE THIS TIME!!! l>r. CALL liAR II AT 41·4711. Cross, for appointml·nt nmt;at·t Und
your buddies tim
Zhivago a! SMC's Carroll IIall. Friday 31H7
and Saturday, february 13 and 14 at I.OST: Men's Ci'old Watt·h. Call B4· l)earest I. D. 79 I I 96HH3 THE NEW JER.~F.Y Clllll IS RUN­
7:00 and 10:30 p.m. It may he cold 
HOI urH927 Rf.\\'ARU Where is your hidden heart? Be NING A SPRING IIREAK !IUS TO DEAR THAT
and snowy outside, but warm the TIM. WAS TROZI;N romantic cockles of your beaux's
our Valentine! EAST IIRLINSWICK AND N.Y.C. DOMES' NOT 'I'OZEN'. 011 WELL. LOST: lliut··hoodt'd knit st:arf. If COST WILl. liE 73.00 ROliNI> TRIP. I'I'S TilE TIIOLIGIJT TIIAT CONTS
SPRINGSTEEN CONCF.RT PIIOTOS heart by takinR him/her !u this found t'aliJat·kit-. 41-~ IH To Roher! Lloyd Snyder, SIGN-UPS WII.L BF. ON SUNDAY (COUNTS TIIAT IS). 
FOR SALF. CAI.I.IIOH AT 3U8 movie.
Happy Bi!hday li!!lc boy! I'm sure l'f.8RLIARY 15 AT 7:00 P.M. IN
..................................................................... 
I.OST: GOLD MJ;J>AI.I.ION WITII il will he a most memoable one:. You LAFORTUNE BALLROOM. BRING A
Thanks to everyone who made: my
I'ICTIIRii OfJESUS AJIOUT SIZE 01' really enjoyed tbe 6th?...too bad you CHECK OR CASII. DON'T fORGT!!!
birthday such a success, especially SAY IT IN SONG!' TIIF. SMC DIM F.. LOST fRII>A Y NIGHT liE· TICKETS pas.•cd out. (just couldn't handlc i! I my roomie, !h<· cake-bakers, and all WOMEN'S CHOIR WII.L BE Sf.!.· 
guess) Don'! catch wu much abuse.

TWHN CARROLl. IIAI.I. PARTY To fine man: Happy llirthday! UNG SINGING VALENTINES ON
who came to celebrate. ROOM AND MORRISSEY HALL YOlJRS and ONLY! From l Fine ladle•
Veronica THURSDAY ANI) fRIDAY INNEEDED!!! 2 GA !ix 10 DePaul vs. 
I.OVE, Nl>. Plt·as<· call. Call Cathy 41-43Hil. 
PARIT ROOM. CALL TRISH 41· 1 
..................................................................... I.EMANS HAI.i.. COST IS ~0 ct;NTS 46H. FOR VALENTINES (VIA PIJONF.S)
YOUR LITTLF. GIRL l<mg Live Dukt• Toma!n
Pinecone & FransAm 

................................................................... 
found: a pair of red duwn mittt'll!t on 
•hut!lc. Call ( SMC) ~I%. 
............................................. 
I.OST: PAIR OF JII.ACK MEN'S GLOVES AT TilE liCI.A IIA~KIT IIAIJ. (iAMF.. IF fOIIND, PI.EASE CAI.I.12H4. 
~>t..i·;···Pi·~·:·K'j;i·;···i~i;···~:ii·;:;N'···;:;·vl~ii. 
COAT AT ). P.W IF YOII fOUND QNF. 01! LOST ONE CALl. 2140 
' 

DESPERATELY NF.J:J> 10 St. Frands GAs by Friday Please call Laura at H042. Will pay. 
.................................................................. 
W,llinR W KiV<' ANYTHING for 4 GA's & I student tix for DAYTON !l"me. Call 41·41 ~I if lntrrcsted. 
Need three G.A. !lx for DAYTON, Pl£EEEEF.EF.F.F.AAAAAAASSSSE!!!!I <:au Kathy at 289-5026. 
Gadzooks! It's Hidden llear!s feb. 14 
Dear Bruc.:e, lie my Valentine? me 
Any!lme, Me. 

Thanks fur the guidance and shin hrulst•s that made OPI;RATION AllSTRACT a highly acclaimed suceess. Can'! walt for Phase II. 
Annie Gold Star 
TO THE HARD. ENOZ El.'n'AII 
SNGJJ;R RAS NOVD 
Where is the Bii!R)' I'IRRY hiding?! 
Mceglc -lleware of falling dumb· bells' Donna -lch bin st·hr mude. KidCid! 
20 days and counting..... 
.. ................................................................til., 

TO THE ND ANI> SMC CAMPUSES AND Sl fOR LONG DISTANCF. CAI.LS. BIG VARIEIT Of VAJ.I;NTINf.S TO CIJUOSE I'ROM. FOR MORE INfO, CAI.I. MONICA 
AT41·~1~4. 
BAN TilF. BAGPIPES 

-
Thursday, February 12, 1981 -page 12
SI>orts 
The Beginning -ofthe End 
Tontorrow, Friday the 13th, could be the official 
beginning of the end of this season for the Notre Dame hockey team. 
Mathematically, the Irish. could find themselves out of the Western Collegiate Hockey Association playoff race after this weekend's series at Michigan State. Only three weeks remain of the regular season and Notre Dame, with I:1 points, is five points behind Minnesota­Duluth and Colorado College. 
That's been the situation the past two weeks. Last week, while Duluth and Colorado were getting swept, Notre ();une dropped two games to Michigan. The op­portunities to move into playoff contention have been thert· -the Irish have simply let them pass. 
And that'~ strangt·, because despite the lousy record ( 6-1 S· I in the WCUA, I 0-18-2 overall), this is not a ninth place team. Granted, there arc better teams in the league this year, but not by such a wide margin. 
!low can a team skate with Minnesota in mid­November -earning praise as the best team the Gop­hers had faced all year up to that time -and then lose seven of nine games during the stretch drive to the playoffs? 
"I wish I could put my finger on it," said coach Lefty Smith. "It's the most frustrating experience I have ever had as a coad1 anywhere. W.c're good one night, then the next we get blown out. I just can't explain it." 
No one can. And that's because the answer seems to 
lie where no om: will ever find it -hidden in the minds 
of 20 players. 
The term mental mistakes has become a regular part of Smith's vocabulary as he has tried to rationalize loss after loss. But how can a team practice from late Sep­tember to early March with an apparent good attitude, then go on the ice each weekend and blame mental mistakes for each loss.? 

Potential all-Americans on this team are not having a good year. No one, in fact, can brag about-his season. Last year, Notre Dame had scored 121 goals at this point. This season, that total is a lowly HS. Can the loss of three players make such a difference? Apparently it can. 
But now, with just three weeks left to. do something, Notre Dame can make up for those mental mistakes. The Irish play last place Michigan State this weekend while Color:1do-College plays Wisconsin and Duluth plays Michigan. The scheduling c;~rds are so slanted towards the Irish it will be a crime if they can not make this playoff race at least a close one. 
Duluth still must face North Dakota and Minnesota after this" cckend and a head-to-head confrontation be­tween Notre Dame and Colorado at the ACC is barely a week away. Somebody up there sure must like Notre Dame for the scht·dule to have worked out this way. 
Mental mistakes arc no longer valid excuses. Making the playoffs is not an impi>ssible task and anything can happen from there. But there is no tomorrow. Two wins this weekend arc a necessity. 
Otherwise, the final two weeks of the season will be just a formaHty and the players will simply be going through the motions. But the way this season has been ~oing, maybe that won't make a difference. 

In NO hockey 
f-Iumphrevs shines for icers
-
~ 

By TIM LARKIN leads the Irish in penalties with 23 MQst of tbat occurred in a I I-9 Sports Writer and is second in penalty minutes 
Notre Dame victory over Michigan with 46. as Kevin got his first hat trick in an As the season is nearing a close, Humphreys started playing Irish uniform and also added three the Fighting Irish hockey team has hockey when he was eight years old assists. experienced a less than successful on a little league team in Green Bay. As the only returning senior, campaign which appears to be He moved up in the ranks as he got Humphreys has been put in the role concluding without advancing to older and then played fi:>r Prcmontre of leader. He views this Irish team as the WCHA playoffs for the first time. High School. one which has a lot of talent, but he However, one bright spot for this At Prcmontre, Humphreys was an feels "something" is missing. "It's going to be close. It's going down to the wire and we've got to hope for the best," says Humphreys on his squad's chances for the
'It's going to be close. It's gping down to the 
WC"HA playoffs. Humphreys, a finance major who 
wire and we've got to hope for the best.' plans on working in a South Bend accounting t1rm after graduation, says if things fall into place he could play in Europe. 
No matter where Kevin iiumphn~y~ [.>l.ty~, llt:'~ uoum.l lv yo:ar's team has been the play of left all-star player, captaining the team 
provide fans with excitement both winger Kevin Humphreys. his junior and senior years. By the in the form ofgoal-scoring and com­Humphreys, a senior from Green end of his career at Prcmontre, 
petitive play. Bay. Wis., has been a standout of­Kevin accumulated 319 total points 
Former Irish ful/backjerome Heavens embraces hisformer coach, Dan Devine, at last night's testimonial dinner for Devine and his wife,jo. (photo by Rachel Blount) 
Versatile Bad"''J 
remains unbeaten 
ByEARLRIX people," says Eady. 
Sports Writer Eady credits his father with instill­ing a sense of priorities in him at an Jacques Eady hasn't lost a race this early age. "When I was a third string year. tailback in ninth grade my father 
But if you ask him about those asked me if I was going to get a races, he won't dwell on them or any scholarship in football. I said no. of his other past performances. That ended that." "They aren't that important to me. Noted primarily as a 6-8 high They represent where I've been. school high jumper, Eady was Where I want to go is much more recruited and has served mainly as a important," says Eady. runner. Despite the fact that he hard­
To the 6-3 junior marketing major ly practices, he can still jump, from North Babylon, N.Y., where he though, as evidenced by his 6-8 want~ to go cl0esn't ju~r mt:'an win, jump !n a fl"'~·t<:>am mt:'et nn Jan ~0 ning races. "My main priority right If you were to call Eady a natural now is to get my first experience in you would not be far from the truth. public rel~tions. I like working with "I think he has the most potential of 
anyone on the team," says senior 



captain Chuck Aragon. was named \X'CHA Player of the Humphreys had the oppertunity 
fensively throughout the season and which stands as a school record. 
Sprint coach Kelly calls Eady "one Week two weeks ago for his perfor­to play in the East, but chose to at­
of the most versatile track athletes mann· against Minnesota-Duluth. tend Notre Dame for a number of 
I've ever coached. Indoors he has For the series with the Bulldogs, reasons other than scholastics. He 
Ball State thrashes 
run the 60, 300, 440, 600-yard which the Irish split, Humphreys considered the caliber ofplay in the 
dashes and the 500 meter dash. Out­
Iri,sh on the road 
doors he has run the 100, 200, andscored four goals and collected two WCHA to be superior than that in assists. In Fritlav's contest. Kevin the East Furthermore, he preferred 400 met~r dashes. He has run onMUNCIE, Ind. -Ball State soundly defeated Notre Dame's women's 
both the four by 100 and mile relay
tallied ahat trick. only the third of the Midwest, not particularly be­basketball team 79-61 here last night. Jane Emkes lead the Cardinal teams. He's long jumped, triplethe season for Notre Dame, as the cause it was near home, but that the effort with 20 points, while Jenny Klauke sparked the Irish with 27 jumped, a-nd high jumped."
Irish were \'ictorious H-4. East was just plain different. 
points all in the second half. 
Eady also plans to eventually run·"It was a nice surprise," says For Kevin, playing at Notre Dame Klaukc's game high total (8-16 from the field and li-13 from the the half mile."From the coachesHumphreys of the .\1VP award. "I've has been fulfilling. "It's been nice. It line) is a new all-time record for most points in a half, erasing Shari stand point, and from what I have yethad six points for a weekend a seems like yesterday I was sitting in Matvey's old mark of 2S set last year. The 5-10 freshman sank eight to sec, the half might be my bestcouple of times, hut thl'y're few and 'Lefty's' (the Irish head coach) office charity shots in a row en route to another n.:w record of I I free race" says Eady. 

far between." when I was being rccuited and here 
throws in a game. 
The last statement mirrors Eady'sit is only six games left in the regular The Irish, who collected a disappointing 31 turnovers, trailed 33-18Nonetheless, Humphreys' statis­biggest problem -lack of con­

season." 

at half. The Cardinals then broke the game wide open during thetics arc certainly anything but fidence. "He's just discovering thatHumphreys immediately made second period, leading by as much as 26 at one point. Notre Dame·modest. After 30 games, Kevin leads he can run 'big time.' I think that he'sthe starting line-up as a feshman and slimmed the lead to 10 with four minutes remaining, but could comethe team in goals scored with 19 and coming to believe that 'yes I am a
appeared in every game while 

no closer to the now 7-1 0 Ball State team. 
is second in total points with 33. 
pretty decent runner.' In thatcollecting 21 points. The following Notre Dame, now 9-10, outrcboundcd the Cardinals, 46-45, asAlong with these impressive figures, respect it has been very rewardingyear he switched to left wing and Klaukc again led the way with 13. · ·he is also the leader in power-play to work with him and watch himresponded with 36 points. At one The Irish next meet Saint Joseph's College in Rensselaer, Ind. nextgoals with nine. 
grow," says Coach Kelly.
point in the season, he tied a league Tuesday. 
Both Kelly and Eady point toKevin, who stands at S-8 and record by scoring two shorthanded IRISH ITEMS -Trish McManus finished the game second in scoring Eady's 4 7. S second time in the 440weighs 160 pound~ isn't only a goals in one period. 

with IO points...Notre Dame shot a miserable 28 percent from the in the quarterfinals of last year'sscorer. Despite his rather small. Last season Humphreys got offto a field in the first half and 36 percent in the second half. .Klauke's 
frame, Humphreys is known to take torrid start. After seven games, he.... 
outstanding performance came in just 22 minutes ofplay.
it to his opponents in the corner. He totaled eight goals and seven assists. 
See EADY, page 10 








