-~-----­
, , , Message -page 6 

VOL. XVI, NO. 19 an independent student newspaper serving' notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER n, 1981 

With police force 

South Bend begins new system 
By GIG! GOLITZ The first sector is the North­their police to 'move in with News Staff east neighborhood, where a them' and share both the good majority of students reside. The and the bad of their neighbor­
Community involvement is substation will be located at 420 hoods," Thompson said. the main objective of South N. Frances. Each sector wi!l have the Bend's "Community Oriented The second sector is the West staff that is needed for that Policing'' (COP) pro~ram, side. The substation will be the area. If the N.E. sector has South Bend Police Cheif Dan No. 4 Fire Station at 320 N. more problems at a certain time Thompson said in an interview Olive. then that particular sector will Tuesday which included Mayor The third sector is the South be more heavily staffed. ByRoger Parent, City Attorney side, which will have a sub­establishing this structure, the Richard Hill, and Police ser­station at 1618 S. Main. program can provide additional geant Larry Hostetler. Each substation is in the core manpower and also have the Thompson anticipates the COP of the sector, which Thompson option to put undercover detec­program will begin in early said will give the commumty a tives back in uniform if neces­November.· feeling of closeness to their sary. The Police Chief explained that police. "This will also offer the 
See COP, page 4
after extensive research, the community a willingness for police department devised this program by combining pro­grams from other cities, such as Rochester, New York, which 
Energy,~ Education cuts 
also used a form of team policing. The department travelled to 

·likely from Reagan
different cities for six months to see what would work best for 
WASHINGTON (AP) --Pres­Chairman Mark Hatfield andthe program. 
ident Reagan will propose that Finance Committee Chairman
"South Bend will finally be 
the departments of Education Bob Dole.
breaking away from tradittonal 
and Energy be eliminated next The new curs, coming on the
policing," Mayor. Parent com­
year, and is resurrecting a heels of $3 '5 billion in reduc­mented. 
controversial plan to delay for tions approved by Congress
In the COP program, the 
three months the cost-of-living this summer, was prompted by
city will be divided toto three 
raises for Social Security recip­new estimates that high inter­
sectors, each sharing patrol 
ients, administration sources est rates were driving theresponsibility equally. 
The sectors were broken said last night. projected deficit for 1982 well The sources, who asked not beyond the $42.5 billion target
down into three areas, with 
to be identified, said Reagan is set by Reagan.
substations centrally located 
in each section. to announce the proposals Reagan pledged repeatedly early next week as part of his during his campaign and after latest blueprint for making taking office to abolish the additional cuts in the 1982 Energy and Education depart­budget, which begins Oct. 1. ments. 
The administration also has Last spring, the president


Kristol promotes capitalism 
signalled Congress that proposed cutting Social Secur­Reagan would not be opposed ity 'benefits, a move that would of the House and Senate voted save $3.8 billion in 1982, but By JEFF MONAGHAN country. ''There is a state of ethics, that's all," he said. to trim more than the $2 billion the proposals drew so much News Staff schizophrenia in this country,'' ''The best way to teach it is by reduction Reagan seeks for the polincal fire in Congress that he said. "Our culture is critical example . . . not discussion of coming fiscal year. t~ey have lain dormant ever 
Inaugurating the College of of the system which is respon-abstract theories.'' Reagan's budget director, smce. Business Administration's sible for its existence. David A. Stockman, briefed Sources said Reagan has Johns-Manville American "In such a condition, those key-Republican senators on the decided to propose a new Enterprise Lecture Series, with college degrees are more Kristol frequently addressed administration's new budget­major Social Security proposal Irivng Kristol spoke yesterday anti-capitalist than those with­business issues for New York cutting proposals last night. --deferral of the annual cost­to a capacity audience in the out them. Marx thought the Times Magazine, Fortune, Attending the meeting were of-living increase in monthlylibrary auditorium. opposite, but he was wrong on Harper's and The Atlantic Senate Majority Leader benefits from July, 1982 until 
Kristol, professor of social that, too." Monthly. His most recent book Howard Baker, Budget Com­Ocr. 1, 1982. The move would thought at the New York Kristol explained that the is ''Two Cheers for Capital­mittee Chairman Pete Domen­save an estimated $2.8 billion University Graduate School of capitalist idealogy is justified ism," published in 1978. ici, Appropriations Committee in 1982. Business ADministration, because it produces wealth. reasoned that through the "In fact," he said, "if we were course of history, capitalism all to act in our own self­Professional helphas enjoyed proven success. ·interest, over time we'd Therefore, "it works, at least improve our overall system. as well as anything else in this Everyone would end up better world," he said. off, although not necessarily 

Psychological services offeraid 
Comparing capitalism to equally." socialism, Kristol stated that According to Kristol, the By KATHLEEN DOYLE him develop a sense of personal sponsor a program that focuses once a socialist transformation purpose of educators, human­News Staff· growth, "he said. "We work to on people with eating disorders takes rlace, it permeates the ists, theologians and social relieve emotional pressure. '' such as anorexia nervosa. This rest o society. Socialism only scientists is to find a way to program, under the direction of works in a "small community direct the economic ideal and Students seeking help with 
Dr. Rybicki and nicknamed of like-minded people, and utilize it, not to criticize it. any problem or concern that "P.I.E." (Problems In Eating),then only for a lade while." Kristol acknowledged that might require professional help will begin in early October. The Soon, he said, social conflicts capitalism, based on economic can turn to the Student Psychol­workshop will continue on a arise, and the whole of society ·self-interest, is a powerful ogical Services Center located weekly basis. · is devastated. force --destructive as well as on the thir'd floor of the Student Rybicki win also hold a 
Kristol cited socialism's constructive. "But," he added, Health Center. The professional staff of the workshop for graduate stu­problem as "socialist ideal in "it is the purpose of other Each year about 5 percent of Center includes clinical psych dents. "Coping with graduate conflict with socialist reality.' institutions to take that force the student population goes to ologists, an alcohol counselor, school" is a survival workshop While socialism claims to have and give it a shape, so it the center for confidential in­and a consultant pshchiatrist. intended to help married coup­all the answers, he said, "it harmonizes with everything dividual therapy. Members of the staff are les handle the pressures of 
doesn't work.'' else.'' According to Dr. Michael Michael Mood, Ph.D, Peg~y gra~uate school. This program 
Kristol described capitalism Although his talk was titled Mood, director of the. Center, Cronin,..S.W., Wayne Pellegnni begms Saturday, October 10. as an economic system based ''The Moral Basis of Business the Center's first responsibility Ph.D, Daniel Rybicki, Psy.D, "S.O.A.P." (Students on Al­on a pursuit of self-interest, Enterprise," Kristol mentioned is to work with students individ­Susan Steibe, Ph.D, and A.H. cohol Problems) is another out-which he claims is under attack only once the concept of busi­ually. "In individual therapy we Urruti, M.D. by the intellectuals in this ness ethics. "Business ethics is work with the student to help Although the Center will See PSYCH, page 4 

MASTERCARD VISA SEARS College Credit Card Program· 
lenient terms -over 90% accepted r established your credit 
WHEN: Wednesdays, Thursdays LaFortune 11-1 pm dining halls 4:30-6:30 pm sponsored by the finance club(3657) 
by The Ob.rerver and The A.rsociated Pre.r.r 
Democrats t_ighten Party C(lntrol 
The House Democratic Caucus yesterday extended "amnesty" to renegade colleagues who voted for President Reagan's tax and budget cuts, but leaders said they'll exercise tighter party discipline in the future. The move came as Democrats in both House and Senate sought to resolve their internal differences and come up with a united front against Republicans in time for the 1982 elections. ''Nobody is going to be punished --nobody is going to be asked to leave the party,'' said House Majority Leader Jim Wright, D-Texas, after the closed-door session. But Wright added that in the future, only those toeing the party line on major issues will be guaranteed assignments in the Democratic-run chamber. The leadership's Steering and Policy Committee will designate the issues, Wright suggested. Of the occasionally stormy, three-hour session, House Speaker Thomas O'Neill, D-Mass., said, "It wasn't exactly a love feast, but we reached an understanding. --AP 
Communists attack Solidarity 
The ruling Communist Party Politburo, in its strongest attack yet on Solidarity, 1warned yesterday of a possibility of bloodshed and declared it would use all means necessary to prevent the independent _union.fro!? taking political P.ower in Poland. The party satd Solidanty, at Its first nattonal congress last week, had embarked on a course of "building an opposition political organization which openly set itself the goal of changing the political system of Poland." The congress called for .free elections, a national referendum on workers' reforms and sent a message of support to free trade union organizers elsewhere in the East bloc. The message of support brought a furious response from the Soviet Union and other East bloc news media, which have repeatedly criticized the Polish government and the country's year-long series of labor and social reforms. The Politburo accused the entire union of abandoning workers' interests and embracing those of "opposition and counter­revolutionary groups,'' such as KOR, the dissident Committee for Social Self-Defense and the anti-Communist Confederation of Independent Poland. --AP 

Director sets up office 
Sr. Evelyn Booms has been appointed Director of the Office of Handicapped Student Affairs of Notre Dame, announced Rev. John L. Van Wolvear, vice president for student affairs. Sr. Evelyn, the rector of the Pasquerilla East women's dormitory, has. temporarily established headquarters in the rector's office of Pasquerilla East (rm. 
626) with office hours from 12:30 to 2:00p.m. Tuesdays and Thursdays. The office phone number is 283-7200. The advantages ofPasquerilla East as the temporary location for the office, according to Sr. Evelyn, are its proximity to the library and the accessability the new building's ramps and elevators afford to disabled persons. Aside from her presence in the office on Tuesdays and Thursdays, Sr. Evelyn intends to visit as many disabled students as possible "to learn from them how we can best serve them." Before becoming rector ofPasquerilla East, Sr. Evelyn was Superintendent of Schools for the Archdiocese of Santa 
Fe.--The Observer ORGANIZATIONAL PLANS: 
Devaka Carson explains the plan ofattack ofthe blockade ofthe Diablo Canyon Nuclear Power Plant to the supporters of the Abalone Alliance near San Luis Obispo, Ca. The group encamped near the power plant for two davs before the blockade. 
AWAITING BLOCKADE: 
The National Guard is called out to help Diablo Canyon nuclear power plant workers dun·ng the blockade of the plant. 
OFF TO THE BLOCKADE: 

Anti-nuclearpower plant demonstrators leave the encampment area in a car­avan of vehicles as fellow demonstrators cheer them on to the Diablo Canyon Nuclear Power Plant block­ade. 
RELAXING BEFORE PRO TEST: 

An unidentified anti-nuke demonstrator showers with solar-heated water whzle en­camped near the Diablo Can­yon Power Plant. Thousands of others waited with him in preparation for their blockade. 

AP Photo File 

·visas denied to Cubans 
The Reagan administration denied visas to four top Cuban officials invited to a trade seminar because of Cuba's military involvement in Africa and elsewhere, the State Department said yesterday. Coming 24 hours after one o.f Cuban President Fidel Castro's most stridently anti­American speeches in years, the decision demonstrates the accelerating deterioration in relations between. the ~o countries. State Department spokesman Dean Ftsche satd the Immigration and Naturalization Act permits the executive branch to deny visas to aliens on foreign policy grounds. He cited u~s. opposition to Cuban intervention in Central America, Africa and elsewhere" as reasons for the denial. The identities of the Cuban visa applicants were not known although published reports have said two of them were the vice minister offoreign affairs and a senior adviser in the ministry of planning. Castro's speech o~ Tuesday, delivered at the inaus-ural session of a meeting of the Interparliamentary Unwn, provoked a walkout by the top 
U.S. diplomat in Cuba, Wayne Smith. A department spokesman said last week the administrat~on believc;s American representation at conferences 10 Cuba IS inappropriate as long as Cuba continues its "aggressive policies.'' In his speech, Castro said, ''Over the Reagan administration and its aggressive policy is the blood. . . of thousands of Salvadorans assassinated . . . hundreds of dead Angolans . . . hundreds of Libyans and Palestinians massacred --the blood of three peoples of the different continents." --AP 
-

Weather 
Partly cloudy and cool today. High in the low 60s. Partly cloudy and very cool tonight. Partly sunny and warmer tomorrow. High in the upper 60s. 
e-The_Obs_erYer_ 
Design fditor 

Monica Gugle 
Design Assistant Raldy Rentner News fditor Kelli Flint 
Copy fditor.; 

Miry Frm Callctlm Tom Melsheirrer 
Sports Copy fditor MikeOrtmYI 
TypistsGreg Swiercz, Deirdre Murphy Miry Agnes Ccrey, Others 
System; Decontrol Bruce"A Nice Guy'' Oakley NO Day fditor 
Kevin McLaughlin .SMC Day fditor Cece Baffles 

Cheryl Ertelt 
Guest AppearancesCrass Barbcrims! (At Best!) 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Maris Col­lege. Subscriptions may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Second class postage paid at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
The Observer 
Federal Reserve 
U.S. needs to curb spending 
WASHINGTON (AP)--Fed­eral Reserve Chairman Paul Volker, vowing to stay on a tight-credit course, declared yesterday that President Rea­gan and the Congress have made only a "down payment" on deep budget cuts needed to drive down interest rates. 
Insisting there is no "Quick fix or painless solution that might send rates tumbling from their high levels, Volker said Reagan and Congress must find as much as $100 billion in spending cuts by 1984 to eliminate federal deficits and ease the demand for a limited supply of credit. 
In testimony before the Sen­ate Budjet Committee, Volker said the nation's central bank would not waver from its policy of rest~ictive money growth to 
squeeze inflation out ofthe U.S. 
economy. 
The I?rogress being made against mflation is too impor­tant to be halted now despite the economic suffering caused by high interest rates, he said. 
''1\ lasting resolution of our economic problems generally and the interest-rate problem ~~ particular, will be found only success in the battle against 
inflation," he said. "Indeed a sense of retreat would only aggravate the present prob­lems ... ," he added. 
Instead, Volker put the task o~ ~eagan and Congress to ehmmate government deficits, which he said are sustaining high interest rates by creating increased competition with private borrowers fot a limited pool of credit that is being kept tight by the Federal Govern-
German terrorists continue attacks on U.S. bases 
FRANKFURT, W. Germany (AP) --Two timebombs planted by terrorists were found and defused yesterday outside Rhein-Main Air Base, a main transit point for the 240,00 American troops in Europe. Meanwhile, West Germany's most feared terrorists took responsibility for trying to kill the U.S. Army's European commander. 
The planting of the explo­sives was the fifth incidenr aimed at Americans in West 
Germany in three weeks, and was presumed to be part of the terrorist Red Army Faction's self-proclaimed war "against .the American military 
machine.'' 
In the latest episode, Ameri­can soldiers found two fire extinguishers containing explo­sives and equipped with timers on a railroad freight spur less than half a mile from Rhein­Main. 
See BOMBS, page 4 

ment. 
It is the government's seem­in.g voracious. cre~it appetite, with .0? en~ 1h Sight that is sustammg htgh retes, he said. 
Budget committee members, 
noting their constituents' grow­
ing anger over high interest 
rates, asked Volcker repeatedly 
if there are any faster solutions. 
"There is no quick fix," he 
replied. "We've got a problem 
that has literally built up over 
30 years .... The idea' that there 
is a rapid fix is just not realistic.'' He insisted that a loosening 
of the band's credit policies would only refuel inflatton and send interest rates higher as 
lenders rush to protect their investments. 
''Ifwe had no objective in the world other than to get interest rates down by Christmas" and the Fed pumped up the econ­omy's supply of money and credit, "the chances are very high that by Christmas, interest rates would be higher.'' 
He also rejected some calls in Congresss for credit controls, saying such remedies are arbit­rary, unenforceable and cause market disruptions that ''would likely only make the situation worse.'' 
Vokker noted that short-term interest rates have declined significantly in recent weeks, but long-term rates remain high despite a falling inflation rate. He said that is because bond markets do not believe Reagan and Congress can find enough spending cuts to offset the record three-year tax cut en­acted this summer. 
Thursday, September 17, 1981 -page 3 

I  FREE  :  
:  Uter of Coke with any carry out pizza  :  
I  Good at Cleveland Road store  I  
across from University Park Mall • 277-5300.  
:  One coupon per pizza. Expires Oct. 4, 1981.  :  

•••••~We1lommt~•••••• 

-·························..····················~
: AOD ,.,~ For the best in PIZZA, sANDWICHES, CHIPS . i
i6V ..,.. 
: • )~ 
: J I!
• 
: 
: 
+ 
: 
•+ 
P~.ZZA 
+ 
. ----------------------~------------------~ 
: $1.oo off $.so off 
Medium

•
• 
Large pizza 

: or Small 
+ pizza 
AND COlD DRINKS 232-1883 Phone 232-1883 : 
FOR SPEEDY CARRY OUT OR DELIVERY : 
•: 

SUPER INSULATED WARMERS USED : 
GUARANTEEING YOUR FOOD ORDER IS DELIVERED HOT. : 
Available 7 days a week + ClOSEST DEliVERY TO CAMPUS : N·D·-SMC checks accepted +
• 

Delivery available 7 days a week 232-1883 i 
ND-SMC checks accepted + 
. 

GOOD TIME PIZZA : 
836 Portage Ave. + South Bend, Indiana 46616 + 
: 

: good 9/21·9/24 good 9/21·9/24++ 
• ·-· SUNDAY -THURSDAY 4-11 •
t ._-----------------------------------------FRIDAY 4-1
-SATURDAY • 
.................................................. 
The Observer Thursday, September 17, 1981 -page 4 
, I 
HOlyCrossFathers 
.vo.cationCounseling 
How do I know if I have a vocation to the priesthood? 
Wat is the academic and formation program for becoming a priest? 
Wat schol'arships and financial aid are available for seminary training? 
Wat are the various apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? 
How do I pray if I'm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood and I'm not sure? 
For a personal. confidential interview with no obligation, please write or call the vocation director. 
II 

Rev. Andre Leveille, c.s.c. Box 541 Notre Dame. Ind. 46556 For appointment, 
call between 8:30 a.m. 
and 4:30 p.m. 
219 283-6385 


---------------~~---------­
1 RIVER CITY RECORDS 
1 Northern Indiana's Largest Selection of Albums & Tapes. 1 Why pay more any place else? 
I Gl' l OO QF.F'ony regul~r r_ecord or tape with ad.
I l.jp L1m1t 1 per person 
• ~ ExpiresOct. 1,1981
I
I 50970 US 31 North eOpen till 10 every night 13 miles North of Campus e ND/SMC checks casbedI next to AI 's Supermarket up to $20 over purchase amountI 277-4242 eRecord Crates available 
--------------------------· 
' 
rammg 
esstons for the Undergraduate Schools 
Committee members will be held Tuesday -Thursday, September 15-17 in the Library Auditorium 7-8 p.m. 
Veteran members welcome! 
r--Synchro­touch tape 
system 
Quasat: 

CS76DD AUDIO SYSTEM 
• Built-tn. front load record•playback Cassette section w1th Synchro Touch Tape System. Dolby No15e Reduct1on System, metal tape capability. MultJ-function Vu mete"rs. 3-dJgJt tape counter • DC Servo Belt Dnve Automatic Record Changer w1th magnet1c cartndge. Low Mass S-shaped tone arm • AM· FM-Stereo Radio • 3-way multi tuned port speaker system. s·. 31fz", 2"z' speak­ers and 3-posmon h1gh frequency level control • Model CS7600. 
·"Dolby Labs 
Stereo ads as low TV Rentals as low as $1.00 a day as $.80 a day 
call us at Sun Appliances 8t Television 291-5112 
• • • Psych 
The Center does not charge for the initial session of individ­ual therapy. After the first session the fee is set between $3 and $12, depending on the student's financial situation. 
However, no student will be denied help if he cannot afford to pay the fee. Students wishing to make an appointment should call 283-7336. 
continued from page 1 

reach rrogram' of the center
0 
Alcoho counselor Peggy Cronin helps students deal with alcohol abuse by utilizing a peer counseling approach. This group meets on Thursdays at 6 
p.m.  - 
The  Center  also  sponsors  
"Al-Anon,"a group  for  chil­ 

dren and relatives of alcoholics. This group meets on Wednes­
crisis within 1I 2 hour. 

The staff emphasizes the fact that all contacts in the Center are strictly confidential. No information abvout any student is released without the indivi­d~al'_s expressed written per­mlsslon 
"We are bound to confident­iality by our legal and ethical code," Rybicki said. "Therapy requires trust.'' 
days at 4 p.m. 

A "Women's •Support Group'' is also planned for the future, as well as an "Interper­• • • COP sonal Growth Group," which will work to enhance personal 
development.. 

The Psychological Services Center also offers a 24 hour Emergency Phone Service (283­7336) to deal with mental health crises. If necessary, a member of the staff can respond to a 
continued from page 1 

''This is an example of placing time accountability into geographical accountability, therefore improving the system as it will be more efficient and 
Are you considering becoming a Catholic? 
Are you waiting for the right moment to become baptized? 
Perhaps the moment is now. 
For more information, contact the Office of Campus Ministry, ext. 6536 (library) 4J92 (Badin) 
an 
campus
miniStry 
ncn~:,::~J:£-rl>" 
RCA 1a·;,•oono1 XL-100 
Roommate color TV 
ACA s sharp br•ght small-screen color TV-now 
even bener w1th Automattc Color Control ana 
Fteshtone CorrectiOn Other aetuxe features 
• ACA"s energy-efl•ctent Xtendedl•le chass•s­
des,gnea tor excellent performance and long 
ltfe-uses only 67 walls ol power on average 
• 
AccuLtne Olack m~tn.11 ptclure lube prov•des a sharp h1gh-contrast p1cture 

• 
Automat1c Fme Tuntng tA~TJ ptnpomts ana holds the cor.rect broadcast stgnal 

• 
Contemporary styled durable ptast1c capt net With betge hntsh 



organized,'' City Attorney Hill sa1d. 
''Another advantage to the program is that the response time will improve," Sergeant Larry Hostetler noted. ''The substations' response time should be cut down by at least 18 blocks, which is an improve­ment over the present system. 
Cheif Thompson emphasized that in order for this to be an effective program, he wants to create closer ties between the police and the local community --including the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's who live off campus. 
Sergeant Hostetler added that he would eventually like to implement a plan among off­campus students once the sub­stations have been established. 
...Bombs 
continued from page 3 
)­

Each of the devices weighed 13 pounds. Police said the type of explosive had not been determined, and declined to say when the bombs were set to go off. 
Police disarmed the bombs without injury, but area rail and highway traffic was blocked for about half an hour. 
The railroad carries supplies to the base, which is especially busy because of the annual autumn NATO maneuvers. 
Meanwhile, a Frankfurt newspaper received a letter signed by the Red Army Fac­tion claiming its members at­tacked Gen. Frederick]. Kroe­gen, the Army commander in Europe. He and h~s wife Row­ene were slightly mjured by glass slivers Tuesday when a Soviet-made grenade hit the general's car as he was bemg driven to work in Heidelberg. 
The letter was postmarked tn Aschaffenburd. base of a U.S. 
mtantrv  bngade,  and  senr  to  
the  Frankfurter  Rundschau  
newspaper.  

It declared an urban guerilla war-on the" 'centers, the bases and the strategy of the Amen­can military machine." 
The letter said the Red Army Faction, also known as the Baader-Meinhof Gang, sought ~o disable "the .l?lo_bal imperial· 1st apparatus, m order to pave the way for "a new breakthrough·' by revoiuuon­aries in the Third World. 
The government denounced the attack and vowed to protect Americans. 
Kroegen appeared at a news conference with Lothar Spaeth, premier of the state of Baden \Xfuerrtemberg where the U.S. Army headquarters is located . 
.. 


~--------------------------------------------------~ 
Editorials 
Thursday, . September 17, 1981 -page 5 
Reagan economic "pariic" nowhere in sight 
P.O. BoxQ
Viewpoint )( 
should also he typed, douh/e-spaced, and 110 tonga than three pages. All
----. . 
-~~ artic!t's .1·hou/d he addre.l'.l't'd 10 the 
~ 
Editorials Editor, P.O. Box Q on campus. As always, we reserve the

'OK,WATr-HO~'D lTRIGHTTH~R~!' 
right to edit. 

The editorial world is up in arms over the Reagan crisis. "The panic," observes Mr. Tom Wicker of The New York Times, "is the panic of those who have followed Mr. Reagan not wisely but too well." And, op­posite, the editorial page said, "And how ungrateful it is for recent tax favors done. How unmindful of the Republican debacles to come. Socko! It's all very silly, of course, but understandable. After passing the largest tax and spending cuts in his­tory a month ago, the Republicans were popping with pride and already counting next year's election vic­tories. But the prospect of ever-larger budget deficits could not be hidden from investors. Now, with the finan­cial markets depressed, inflationary expectations still high and interest rates threatening recession, the presi­dent's party is seized with panic." 
Well, well. 

The record of the Reagan ad­ministration has yet to be made, and there are certainly visible piitfalls ahead. But the record of The New York Times about how to go about economic reform is, unfortunately for it, very much a matter of public record. 
During 1978, for instance, the Times vigorously opposed a diminu­tion in the capital gains tax rate. Congress nevertheless acted. A year later, on Dec. 4, 1979, The New York Times published an editorial: 
''Capital Gains Nowhere." And the text?  Tax  Cut  to  market and promote economic recovery. Despite widespread skep­ticism, their logic prevvailed and the  during 1979, and it is expected to decline in the coming recession. Contrary to the predictions about  W'dliam F. Buckley  
''Remember all the clamor for the  tax on capital gains ­ the profit for  venture capital flowing to  new and  
cut in the capital gains tax last year? Its sponsors insisted a reduction  long-term investment reduced from 50 to 40 percent.  was  riskier businesses, there has been no increase in the number of newly in­ On the Right  
would send investors rushing to risk  "Well, it didn't work. The propor­ corporated  iirms.  No  one  knows  
their money on new business plants  tion of America's resources devoted  whether extra capital is flowing into  only if it is to be a trend.  
and equipment, stimulate the stock  to  investment  has  not  increased  small businesses, but as yet there is  2) The tax cut. at $80 billion, is  
no  sign  that  these  businesses  are  less than the tax increase would have  
expanding plant and equipment."  been through inflation.  
That  was  almost two  years ago.  3) The  sum of No.  I and No. 2  
We now have the figures. Remember  above sends out to the market the sig­ 
that  small  firms  (under  20  nal: this isn't enough. The market is  
employees) provide 66 percent of all  the best judge of the situation.  
new jobs. Indeed, 81.5 percent of new jobs are created by firms with  ' 'Let us hope that the  
I 00 or fewer employees: 1977 (under the old law): $42.6  critics of the 1981 tax  
million  in  equity capital  raised  by  reduction prove as  
small companies. Number of com­panies that went public: 13.  incompetent as the  
1979 (new law): $183 million; 46 public offerings.  critics of the 1978  
1980: $821 offerings.  million;  I 35  public  tax reduction. ' '  
1981  (annualized):  $2.2  billion;  4)  To  lower  interest  rates  right 
348 public offerings.  now, by the Fed, would mean to ac­ 
Let •Js hope  that the critics of the  celerate those forces of skepticism 
198 I tax reduction prove as  incom­ that  are  now  deserting  the  equity  
petent as the critics of the I 978 tax  market.  In very short order, interest  
reduction.  rats would be higher than ever. What  
Still, keep your eyes on the central  IS  at  stake  isn't  whether  a  sound  
facts:  economy is pleasing to investors, but  
1) The great Reagan budget cut  whether a democrac:,· will give us a  
was only about five percent of the  sound economy.  
budget. T.hat is good as a trend-but  Universal Press Syndicate  

As a returning feature ofthe editorial page, ''Viewpoint'' offers people within the ND-SMC community the opportun­ity to speak out on questions on local, national, and international importance. Submissions should be no more than 100 words and should be sent to the Editonals Editor, 
P.O. Box Q on campus, by Wednesday noon. 
This week's question: Are the living conditions in campus dorms at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's satisfactory to you? 
accepted an ad headlined "What

~eader dismayed 
Kind of Reporter Writes for Screw?" How can the great Christian com­

by Observer ad 
munity of ND-SMC stoop so low as to accept an ad from a source thatfor porno mag condones pornography? I'm sure that the ad brought in much-needed Dear Editor: revenue but is that enough to justify In a recent issue of Ms. magazine running an ad from Screw magazine? (Sept. '81 ), I was shocked and I certainly hope that you will drop dismayed to read that The Observer this ad and that in the future you will 
be more discriminating when accept­ing ads for publication. 
Mary C. Garrett Buffalo, N.Y. 
Editor's Note: Ms. magazine was not the only publication to report er­roneously that The Observer ac­cepted a full-page advertisement from Screw magazine, and it has prompted questions from many of our occasional readers. Our regular readers will note that we have never run this advertisement -Screw 
merely sent us the layout for the ad, but in no way did we ever consent to run it, nor did we ever bill them for it. We do need revenue, hut not that badly. But wishing to publicize the fact that a renowned Catholic institu­tion such as ND was connected with Screw, even if it was not, that magazine's devious publicity depart­ment apparently sent out a press release saying that The Observer was one of only three college papers to accept the ad. We did not. And ifwe ever catch the & ($'who said we did 
The Observer always welcomes shortlel/ers and longer contrihutions from its readers-students, faculty 
o~  parents.  For  best  chana  of  
puhlication,  lel/ers  must  he  hrie}:  
typed.  and  include  the  author's  

address and phone numher. Submis­sions ./{1r the "Opinion" column 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The Observer is  an  Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 independent newspaper published  h\  the student~  of rhc  Editor·in·Cbief.................... ... John McGrath Managing Editor.. .. ....Tom Jackman Executive News Editor ................... ..........Lynne Daley  SMCExecutive Editor .....................Mary Agnes Carey SMCNews Editor ................................ ' Cathy Domamco Photo Editor...................................................john Macor  
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Marv's College. It does nor  nece~ ... ard\  News Editor...........  .......................Tim Vercellotti  
reflect the policies of the administration of elt~er  msutuuon. The news  1~  reported  News Editor................  . .................................. Kelli Flint  Business Manager ....................................Rich Coppola  
as accurately and as objecttvely as poss1ble. Ed1torrals represent the op1n1on ot a  Senior Copy Editor . ..................... Mary Fran Callahan  Controller.......................................................Joe Multlur  
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentarres. oprn10ns. and letters are rhe v1ew~. of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the communlt\. and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. 1s enu>uraged.  Sports Editor ....................................... Michael Onman Features Editor ........ ...........................Anthony Walton  Advertising Manager......................................Mark Ellis Production Manager..............................Michael Monk Circulation Manager ........................Tom MacLennan  

Features 
Thursday, September 17 ,1981 -page 6 
A Message from Ann 
love. There are a great many.
Paul Kosidowski "cries" like these originating from an incredibly eclectic set of social concerns~,. especially on
Second Thoughts this campus--and there should iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiiii be. But how one chooses to 
I recieved a very special relate to these concerns--ignor­birthday card this year: Dear ance, passive acknowledge­Paul Kosidowski, Here is a card ment or action--is an extremely for you. It is for your birthday. personal decision and uncle­You are my favorite brother I serving of any judgemental ever met before in my whole moralizing. If there is a request lzfe. Happy 22 birthday years somewhere in the lives of the old. Urifortunately, newsprint retarded it is not a call for cannot reveal the effort put into action, but for simple aware· this little composition--the ness and thoughtful obser­thoughtful shapmg of each vation--an opening ofour minds letter, the carefully positioned to what the retarded can teach (bYt often misplaced) punctu-us. ation and the sheer pride We may be a bit skeptical evident behind the somewhat that anyone with an IQ 25-50% unsteady signature. The "fa-lower than "normal" can vorite brother" bit is mislead-actually teach us something, ing; there is no sibling rivalry. I and it is true that they cannot am her only brother. The author "teach" us in the way that was my 20 year old sister, Ann. we--guardians of 20th century 
Ann is retarded--a victim of etiquette--teach them, chastiz­Down's Syndrome. This is not, ing them for singing in public however, a piece about Ann's and punishing them for greet­disability. It does not cry out for ing people with an embrace and the rights of these people to a kiss rather than the normal love; 1t does not attempt to stoic handshake. They teach us impress you with how normal without our pomposity or pre­they are or how quickly they can tensions, mostly through the learn. More than anything it example of their lives--their does not cry out for us to help simple lives. them--because they are hand1-The retarded person's life is capped or because they need simple not by choice--the choice that our intelligence allows us to make--but by necessity. The "spice of life" that adds in­terest and romance to our existence is nothing more than a bothersome confusion of their normal routine. Part of Ann's routine is making salads for dinner. When that is upset-­when three salads are needed or when dinner has to be served early--adjusting is a major un­dertaking. She constantly re­minds herself of her new task and when she finishes, her face has the glow of a world record holder. 
"Did you like your salad today, Paul?" she will always ask, reminding me of what I know all too well: that she will to anything--anything--for a "thank you" and a hug. 
One of her greatest accom­plishments--an event that ironi­cally signaled that she was becoming more "normal"--oc­cutred this summer when she started her first job. She worked in a hospital laundry room folding towels, eight hours a day, three days a week. It wasn't a job that many would be proud of, but she bragged about it incessantly. 
On her first day she woke up my father at 6:30 and insisted that he give her a kiss goodby:e. 
She told him he had to do this every day because "that's the way they do it on Dick Van Dyke." 
She celebrated every pay day by taking the family out to dmner. The highlight" of every evening was the excitement in her eyes when she picked up the check, as if she were saying "I can't believe it!" and "Of course, why shouldn't I? at the same time. 
What she didn't spend on dinners, she would spend on us--treating us to movies and asking us to "have a beer" on her when we went out, often leaving her home, alone. Every­thing she owns has always been shared or given to the other people in her life. Now, as money is added to her list of possessions, it is not a symbol 
of power  or  status,  but  just  
another  way  of showing  her  
generosity.  

I have had the pleasure of meeting Ann's retarded friends a few times--too few. 
I have always come away from these experiences with a sense of loss, aware that I am perhaps missing something by not being closer to the retarded. Sometimes I even wonder what it would be like to become a member of their special group 
for a day. Along with that curiosity, though, is the fear that we are interfering with' their lifestyles. With each edu­cation and "integration" pro­gram we bring the retarded further into our world--cenainly a desireable accomplishment but in the process, we als~ impose our standard of matur­icy upon them. I can see their openness and honesty wane, their excitement and fascin­ation with life dissappear for the sake of what is "adult" and proP-er. I can't help but wonder if, when they are wor­kins, functional members of. soctety they will laugh together as they once did, before we "aged" them. 
Ann writes me once a week (of course, I am too busy with 
.important things to return any letters), and by the time she writes again she will have read this column due to the magic of the postal service. I can picture her next letter quite confidently and clearly: Dear Paul Kosi­dowski, How are you doing at Notre Dame? I read the article you wrote about me. I showed it to my friends. Thank you very very much. I love you, Ann. 
Ann seems to think that's what it's all about. And when you think about it--what could be more simple? 
Study in Mexico Broadens Horizons 
Last year at about this time I began to think about going abroad-to Mexico-for a semes­ter. I had heard the common stories about Mexico. You know, how they're said to be dirty, lazy, and JUSt not the type of people you'd want to get to know. I questioned the validity of such prejudices, but I still wasn't sure if going to Mexico and finding out for myself what the people and their culture were realy like was worth missing spring semester, and all that goes with it-things like basketball season, and AnTos­tal. After much consideration, I decided that my overall edu­cation would be enchanced, not lessened, by such an experi­ence, and with that decision, I said goodbye and was on my way. 
One might ask, ''What made the decision to go to Mexico so difficult?'' Well, there were several factors involved, most of them based on unanswered questions such as "Who will be my roommate next year if I'm not here for the lottery?" or ''Will I have a roommate? Or a room?'' another question was ''Will people recognise me with a moustache and sombrero, or be able to understand my Spanish-Hoosier accent? " Ser­iously, the biggest question of all was "Who will I be after such an experience?" 
Let me just focus on the last question (the others are much too difficult). I think the word that best exemplifies a healthy attitude toward education is openness. As students, we must allow our minds to be open to new ideas, to new experiences, and to new people. As a student in Mexico City, studying at Universidad Iberoamencana and livin~ with a Mexican family, I expenenced a new reality and quickly learned just how wrong those earlier prejudices were-that the Mexican people are anything but lazy or dirty, and that they're among the most sincere and generous people whom I've ever met. I also had the opportunirty to work in a small, rural community and made a couple of Urban Plunges in some of the slum areas (of which there are many) in the city. Finally, the semester was not all work, there was a visit or two to the coast. All in all, just being, in Mexico, opened my life to many new experiences. 
Kevin Walsh 
Study programs abroad are often described with such words as: exciting, challenging, frustrating, and eye-openins. My past semester expenence tn Mexico and Nicaragua with the Program in Global Community leads me to add another adjec­tive to the list--liberating~ By studying and actually living with people who are working to liberate themselves from pover­ty and other forms of oppres­sion, I was able to begin a sort of personal liberation process. 
The ftrstexample I saw was in the Mexican community where I lived for three months .• The people there experience the daily realities of mjustice, and participate together as Chris­tians in the struffle for justice. There "Base Christian Com­munities," as they are known throughout Latin America, are the means by which people reflect OJ?. the.ir experience as a commumty m hght of the reading classes. 
Another, perhaps more ap­parent, example of the liber­ation process 1s the situation in Nicaragua. The revolution is over, but the liberation process goes on. The civil war was only the ftrst step in the elimination of oppression. The first major project of the new government was an attempt to free its people from the bonds of ignor­ance by implementing a mas­sive literacy campaign. This campaign increased the literacy rate from 49% to 88% in the first two years. The scope and complexity of the problems facing the nation are tremen­dous still, but there is hope to be gleaned from the day-to-day struggles for liberation of a determined people: 
-The people of Ntcaragua are in strong solidarity with others who struggle for justice, esp. their neighbors in E1 Salvadore. As if to aid in the liberation of the American people, both Mexicans and Nicaraguans re­peatedly told us to closely re-examine our structures of power, and to be spokesmen for change. 
Studying abroad is an effec­tive first step in one's personal liberation process. Through such close contact with another culture, we can see ourselves in what is often an unfavorable light. Fortunately, the people of these cultures are able to disagree with certain actions of the U.S. Government and A­merican buisinesses without feelin~ resentment toward the Amencan people as a whole. 
Gospel. In practical terms, Base. They place great hope in Amer­Chnstian Communities have ican students who take a sin­been responsible for bringing cere interest in understanding water and electricity to villages the problems of Latin America. where they previously had With this hope comes the none, or, as in the neighbor-responsibility to liberate our­hood where I lived, the resi-selves from looking at the world dents organized to obtain with a narrow nationalistic streetlights and to form adult viewpoint. As Americans our actions and lifestyle affect mil­lionsof people of other nations, and we must therefore live daily in a more collective, global sense. We have the opportunity to take a look at ourselves from another culture's eyes, but are we afraid of what we might see? 
Tim Donlin 

The programs at the Univer­stdad Iberoamericana in Mexico 
Deidre Grant 
Weekend 

Last week I recieved my calling in life. As one who has always believed that there is something to ftll my weekend hours with besides study, I was called upon to inform the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents about ''weekend enter­tainment.'' I am to use my own judgement and tasteful dis­cretion in deciding what is noteworthy enough to draw to your attention. Unfortunately, these two don't usually coincide. 
Naturally everyone has their own idea of what entertainment entails. lve seen it in many forms and am fearful of those that I've avoided. So, you will find that there are things going on that you will want to take part in and some that you won't. However, the purpose of this column is to inform you of what's going on. I'm not get­ting paid according to how many people · read this, or attend any activities. I'm not getting paid at all! 
Some of you have probably heard that Notre Dame is playing Michigan this Sat. A lot of people are making roadtrips, though the majority of them don't have tickets. 
City and the Program in Global Community in Cuernavaca are offered through the Center for Experimental Learning. There will be an Information Night on Thursday, September 17 at 7:30 
p.m. in the Library Lounge for anyone who is curious about these programs. For further information you may contact Marcia LeMay at CEL, 1100 Memon'a/ Library, x2788 
Those of us staying on campus can find a game watching party and catch it on ABC at 1:00 EDT. Earlier Saturday morning at 10:00, the Irish women's tennis team takes on Evansville at home. 
Movies on campus this week­end include Close Encounters of the Third Kind, Eyes of Laura Mars, and Hospital, which · is part of the Social Concerns Film Series. Close Encounters shows Friday night at 7, 9:30, and 12 in the Engineering Auditorium. Hos­pital shows Friday and Satur­day in Washington Hall at 7 and 
9:30. Saint Mary's is showing Eyes of Laura Mars Friday night in Carroll Hall, which is, for any freshmen who don't know, in Mad eleva Hall. 
Off-campus, the summer hit Raiders of the Lost Ark js still showing at University Park. Believe me, I know there is the problem of getting off-campus. So, here is another alternauve-­Van Lines. Every weekend ex­cept home football weekends Van Lines leaves N.D. circle on the hour Fridays starting at six and Saturdays at four. A de­tailed scedule of stops can be picked up in La Fortune. 
A ceramics exhibit, Indiana Fire II, opens at Moreau Gallery on Friday at 7:00. It runs through October 16. Weekly Bulla Shed mass for OC students starts Sunday at 7:00. Everyone is always welcome. 
· 
. 
------------~~--~~------~---------, 
!The Observer Thursday, September 17, 1981 -page 7 
.-;:, 
... 
,'·' 
1111. o4 ""(,. ··',11 

_, .... "'":.... 
......"':'.·:--'!{-~........ -:• ' (· 
.. ·. :·• -~·-----·
~> ""<lb. ..~. 
.,

•, ~-~· .. !"V ~; . . ~ 
.. ~ .~ ~ 
I 4'
'-~~:-..if~·-·. >,:. 
~;..~. ' 

-·-···------------------· ----··-------------------------------------, 
Peters leads Notre Dame Open 
• • . Fight
Craig Peters leads after two rounds of the annual NotreSoccer team remains unbeaten Dame Open golf tournament with a three-under-par 139 {70-69). Notre Dame golf coach Noel O'Sullivan says this is 
continued from page 9 

the best field in the history of the nine-year event. 
The 19th-ranked Notre Dame soccer team hiked its season Rounding out the top five were sophomore Frank Leyes -­still not clear in his mind. 
record to 5-0 yesterday with an 8-0 shutout of Valparaiso. It 141, junior Tom Scully--143, sophomore _I oe Celerek --144, Talk of a rematch began was the fourth shutout in five games for the Irish, who now and senior Bob Horak --144, the defending champ. --The almost instantly in the nearlylead the nation in goals scored. Notre Dame was led by Observer full Morris Civic Auditorium 
forward Mario Manta with three goeals. Manta is now last night, which along with second in team scoring (5 goals, 4 assists) behind Sami approximately 300 other out­
SMC field hockey to organize
Kahale (6 goals, 6 assists). Steve Berry and Rob Snyder lets, showed ''The SHow­scored goals, along with freshmen Seve Chang, Ed williams 
down" via closed circuit tele­and Rich Herdegen. Goalies Gerard McCarthy and Dan There will be an organizational meeting for the Saint 
vision. In South Bend, only 400 Coghlan shared the shutout. Notre Dame has outscored its Mary's field hockey team this afternoon at 5 p.m. in the 
tickets had been sold prior to opponents 36-3 so far this season. --The Observer Angela Athletic Facility. All are invited to attend but you 
last night, but enormous ''walk should come dressed to play. For more information, call 
up'' sales made the eveningCindy at 5343. -The Observer 
profitable for the local audito­num. 

The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, 
either in person or through the mail. 
Classifieds 
HEY!! I Need GA Tix 
Freshman guys--Dog

One bdrm apt. fum. Desperately need 2 or 3 Need 2 Ra St STU tix. Jeff Undholm. . Happy
For Any Home Game. 
books are out

NOTICES · reasonable rent call GAs for FSU Will pay BADLY! Call /1/mica birthday!!! .. . You • 
PLEASE call Dan at
I J 
Pick this year's 1 0 best .__---------287-5361 after 6 p.m BIG bucks Call Tom8531 41-5802 knucklehead -,>u! H20

288-6251 a1y time after 
looking girls!! Send top

USED BOOK SHOP. r---·---------·----·-1 or 8529 
6. 
10 names in order to:I need 2 GA mich St. Think about Spring sem HOURS WED. SAT. ! -.,,fL ~\'~~':;': ; DAD IS WALKING Miss '85tix!! Will pay $$$ Call ester in MEXICO --Unl­SUN~ &-wa CASEPER+ L---···---·· ... -..-~ ..._... FROM TACOMA, HELP! Jllom & Dad 026 Holy Cross Hall-NOJim-4642 versidad lberoarrericala SON 1303 BUCHANAN DO YOU HAVE EXTRA WASHINGTON FOR need 2 GAs for a1y home 1\fexlco City or A-ograrn

RD. NILES. TIME IN THE AFTER-! USC GAME! MUST game. Call Matt, 1485 good luck coach Mccul­
Will trade 1 FSU GA for 2 in Global Co1T1'11.1nlty­NOONS? WE NEED Get 2 TIX! HE HAS lough he pa1thers will
Navy GAs. Please call Cuemavaca. Come to
Badly need ride to & PART TIME DELIVERY ALREADY STARTED I need 3 or 4 GA tix for be no. 1 to me always
Tom 1865 INFORMATION NIGHTfrom LA 4 Oct. Break. Mlch St. game. Call1222 
HELP. APPLY IN PER-! WAKING! CALL BILL keep up the good WJI'X
Thurs., 17th, 7:30 p.m,
Share expenses. Call a1d ask for ~er
SON AT SUN APPLI-t AT 1678, OR PAUL at V'A:! ..are the best in the
Need USC tix, One STU Ubrary LDunge. Call
Sytvta 6926 ANCES 3.4?lf491r'IIJS 31 S 
state1670 a1d tw:> GAs Call Chris Marcia LeMay, 2788

ON WED & THURS Need 2 Navy GAs Call -,ur sidekick, JFVat 1678 Center for Experientiallrrprove Your Grades! BETWEEN 10 & 4. NO Susan 8020
5 MSU GA llckets need­Learning
Research catalog-306 A-lONE CAUS. 
ed for Jllom, Dad, GPs, Warted: Mich tix, GAs Hey Womanskls pgs-10,278 topics-rush Desperate!! Need 6 GA& Ul' Sis! Please call a1d STU Cali 289-1127 Attn: COPY EDITORS: I know you think I'm !1.00. Box 25097C, LDs UNIVERSITY CLUB Mlchiga1 tix!! Call Kris8847, ask for Pat CMeSOme. So here is a
Free trip to Sunday'sAngeles, 90025. HAS OPENING FOR 41-4212 once in a lifetimeFor Sale or Trade: 2 Sox game. Bus, beer a1dC213(4n-B226 LUNCH DISHWASHER Desperately NEED 2 GA Mich tlx. Call 287-8267 tix all complimentary. cha1ce. Space Is avail­CILA ORIENTATION HOURS 11:30-2:30 /11m PLEASE HELP!! Need 2 
able for dates with

FORMSU GAME. CALL See Shirley for details me WEEKEND!!! This -Fri. HOURLY RATE. or 4 ~n St. GAs Will for Tues. & Thurs.
KELLY 4407 HELP! Need GA tlx for
Weekend, Sept 18-20, at APPLY IN PERSON 9 pay big bucks. 1142 second sem.
nights

MICH ST. game Call Navytix 1or 2 GAs MichBeautiful CCIT'fl Tart"& a.m-5 p.m NO A-lONE I Desperatley need 4 Maria1ne 277-1099 St 1 GA or student, Apply now, CM>id the rack. For rrore Info or CAUS, PLEASE. Will trade 1 Purdue for rushGAs a1d 2 STUDENT desperately need Navyregistration, stop by Vol­one Mlch tlx. Call Jim Gatta Cruise tickets to MSU game. Need GA tixto any home tix right away! Call Mikeunteer Services Office at seeking ride to Mil­6802 11m Wolf 0979)
Call1171 football game. Call 8854. HELP!
1.5 LaFortune. ll:ln't waukee or Madison Wis. 
Cathy 277-2244
miss it. A good time Is rmst a1y w:!elcend. will Need USC student tlx -­Need ride a1d-or riders 
Will give a1ything for 2 Jeff Undholm Why are 
guara1teed. share e>epenses. will pay bucks! Call Jim going to Jersey or Rlilly
GAs to USC. This IN­BEgorra!! I need lots o' -,u so happy? You are 
call 8013 a1ytime. 6802 on Rte so leaving Fri 
CLUDES DRUGS AND tixfor Aa. St. Will pay a not ailow:!d to drink unitI 
ND under Qu<rartlne Sept 25. Mike 1181
NEED RIDE TO S. E. SEX. Call Jack 8519. R:Jt o' Gold! Ring me at 21 
lt'Sal FOR SALE: One USC
WISCONSIN (LAKE Hurry, I have only limit­8580 NOW! II complimentary. So wait one rrore year .. EPIDEMIC!!! studenttix. foll.alt2 offer
GENEVA, MILW.)ANY Happy Birthday a1yway! 
ed stamina See Shirley for details 
now. Call Tom at 8771
WEEKEND. SHARE Carlos
Will trade one Ra. St. Need ride to Houston EXPENSES. CALL 
MICHIGAN TICKET for Trade Mich ticket for ticket a1d cash for one Navytix 1or 2 GAs Mich Tex. for October break. MIKE 7987 
SALE Great seat, call USC GA, STUDENT, or Purdue ticket. Cali Pat St 1 GA or student, Food service worker Call chris at 1678 a1y------, Joan at 6553 CASH in that order Call 41-5463 desperately need Navy needed Apply Food Ser­
time, will sh~usuar_:_ ___ ~OR SALE _1 vice ftlw!r( s Col­
Jim8658 Saint
.... -------..., ~.., ... DEAD!
Desperately Need Ra. r i lege. Fbsitionsavallable: 
, l''\"" "'l ,.,. .r"'\ 1\ ~ I\ I '"'
~LO,..T/~l''""~ ''!\F"' · 

St. tickets. Call Steve
1 ·~ \-'V ~ ""i..J j for sale: Yai'T'itla QT 50. Need 2 MSU GA ticket "":: ~;.;;t>i,_-''' ·''\f:.;,l : CILA surrrrer project ja1itorlal, kltdlen deal­'---210 mi R1one 277-5828 8655 Will pay top Price. Ca '--·--~---·----~-presentations: up, and orderly. Various LOST: One Quartz Seiko Ring 12xs. 
hours available. Watch. The round watch 287-2088 evenings SOCIAL CONCERNS Appalachia project 
Need 2-4 Ga llckets for 
FILM SERIES 10:00 Ra1ner Pit
was lost on Sept. 5 at Heathkit AR-14 receiver, all home football games. Toni, Mary Fbppins,
Hey You out there! Yes, Septerrber 15-26 11 :00 Alurmi BasementCorby's or ND <He. a1d 
$200. Cali 234-1596 after Call Art at 1593 You!!! I need many GAs Betsyhad great sentlmenai 
6. Have tw:> FSU tickets. to the Navy game. If cal Social Concerns Rim scarface (MO) Where cal -,>u find value. Reward offered. 
happiness?

Desire to trade for MSU. help, or just feel like Series: Happy 18th Birthday ·­Call 277-4681. 
FOR SALE+f72 CHRY­
Call Patty 1321. talking to a pretty girl, To Kill A Jlloc:kingbird just think, ~u cal now Charlie SLER Nev.,xlrt; 49000 
call 6772 mi. exc mnd. !1000. Dear Yogi, 
LOST:7-IRON Chi-Chi Sept. 15, 16,17 --7, 9:30 legally wte REPUBU+ 
lblrlguez T oumarrent ~n St. ticket Wcllted. p.m. Eng Aud Free CAN We y.,ould have 
Scott-4204 
I know -,>u don't feelNorth'M!Stem). PLEASE Please calI ll:lnna at Need 4 Mich St. tix Admission bought -,u a present, 

call 1771. 6771 please Cali 1827 but its a slow too good right now, but
trickle you're bound to get w:!ll

1975 BUICK Century, 
Social Concerns Rim do'M'I theory.
w:!i I used but depend­
Found. Single Key, GM able. Ideal for seniors. 
MSU TIX NEEDED. Badly need · GAs for Series FDRa1d IOWA soon. Take care of 
car in D-1, South End, 

Mich St. a1d Ra. St. ~urself. I love ~u.
(LOTS) Preferably GA. Something Beautiful for
For info call Dave at
on Tuesday. 
Boo-Boo

3633. Julie 289-6731 Call Lee at 289-3822 God ATTN LADIES: Cttlors 
Fralde~781 

Sept. 15,16,17 --noon confirm it... SKIP NEED FSU tickets!!! Will trade student Pur­LaFortune Uttle Theatre DESJARDIN is rured. Hey Jo Baby 1 OR_R_r·~~=---~-TICKETS ' Call 8093 due tix for Mich tix. Call Free Admssion Congratulate him, a1d I bet you thought the r--t: :•.j 1 : Julie 6926 personals colurm y.,ould
offer kisses, Fri. And
L ------------' Need Football tickets? I Desperately need 2 FSU not harass -,u any
Social Concerns Rim Sat. in Ann Arbor. 
do! I need USC a1d ~n and 2 USC tix! /1/mey is 
RENT TO WON A Need 2 GA tix for USC Series longer. You V'A:!re wrong. State llx a1d am willing no object! Call Steve
COLOR TV OR STERE-1 game. Cali ~In 2956 And the abuse goes
HOSPITAL Volunteers needed to 
to buy, sell or trade a1y
0 CALL SUN AP-I 8265 on ... a1d on ... a1d on. 
Sept. 18, 19 --7, 9:30 tutor foreign students in 
other llx to get them
PLJANCE 291-5112 Need ~n St. a1d USC p.m English; mnversational
llckets WCI'Ited ND vs.
Will deal In cash also. 
tix. Price no object. Call Washington Hall English a1d Vocabulary. FOR SALE: One USCSo Cal, Call Rlil9 a.m-5
Call Larry 277-3306
UGLY DUCKUNG Jim 1163 STU ticket. foll.alt2 Offer
Admsslon -50 cents Contact vso, 1.5 La RENT-A-CAR 1'-bw. Call Tom at 8771
p.m PA'Yl$$$ Fortune; x7308NEED FLORIDA STATE 
From 8.95 a day m 8 2 GA Ra. St llx needed HAVING A PARTY?
I have 1 GA tlx to U of
TICKET. Just one.
cents a mile. Alone badly, /1/mey no object. Hey R!achy Kea1e, 
We will deliver all the GAY STUDENTMich a1d Wcllt to 'horse­Cousin coming from Ro­
259-8459 for reserva-Call Bob 234-0418 beer, liquor, m>cers, HOTLINE Get the story stragiht. 
trade' for 1 usc studentrlcla, m she's a beauti­
tions In no way was I trying to
rups a1d ice .,u need at 283-6282tix. Will mnslder seilingful blonde. Call Tom at Need 2 or 4 GAs for Ra pick you up. Looks like
the loV'A:!st prices in Thursdays 9-11 p.m
tlx. Call Larry, 288-4005
8620 ~u
Near NO, Fum. Kitdlen­St. game. Call Ralph at to'M'I. Call Fete or Mark Readl out a1d be -,>ur­struck out again.
after 8 p.m or leave note
eHe Apt., Utils.272-6174 1007 You better resort tp the
.. 
Need 2 GA MSU tix. at 3670 for details. self!
at Law School for Larry /1/mey is no object. Call 
SB locals, .,u loser SL

Sirhall Susan 41-4361 


The Observer 
Thursday, September 17, 1981 -page 9 
• • . Polo 


Mary Miss-Rew York sculptor, will give an illustrated lecture of recent sculptural installations. 
...) 
Monday, Sept. 21 at 7:80 pm. 
Memorial Library Auditorium 
Sponsored by the Cultural Arts Commission and Isis Gallery 

SEE THE IRISH IN MICHIGAN, GO HERTZ FROM $16.99 A DAY 

cbllDge without notice and non-discountable. • There are no minimum 
These Economy Fares are Touring Rates, subject to 
day and advance reservation requirements, but 
restrictions on when and where cars must be returned. Gas is not 
Included. Call Hertz for details. ~ 

234-3712 at Airport 
=

WHERE WINNERS RENT.
232-51'71 Downh.IWil 
HERTZ llENTS FORDS AND OTHER FINE CARS 
continued from page 12 
in the conference champwnshiJ?s,'' says Smith, which draws a look of disbehef and a quick response from McDivitt. 
"I expect it." 
SAILING NEWS--In last weekend's meet at Wisconsin, the Irish finished fourth out of nine teams. only four races were run, however, as the lack of wind blew the meet away(?). "One more race and we might have won the meet,'' commented club president Jerry Daus. The "A" Division, led by skipper Phil Reynolds and crew Carol Silva, took first place in the meet. 
Skipper Chris Hussey and crew Daus took sixth place in the "B" Division. The Irish will host the 18"team Notre Dame Intersectional at Eagle Lake this weekend. 
RUGBY CLUB--Practice starts today at 4:15 
p.m. behind the ACC on the old interhall soccer fields. Bring $3 for South African rugby tickets. 
GYMNASTICS CLUB Practices have gotten under way this week daily from 4-to 6 
p.m. TheY're scheduled for Saint Mary's Angela Athletic Facility every Monday, Wed­nesday and Friday, and at the Rockne Memorial every Tuesday and Thursday. New members are always welcomed. For more information call Brian McLaughlin at 1872. 
• • . Toran 
fine performances to follow because, in Johnson's words,
cointinued from page 12 
from the Indianapolis native. ''we felt he could help us at "We went on to score after "There's no doubt that defensive back right away. We Stacey's second interception, · that's the best game that didn't have good depth back and that turned things back in Stacey's played since he's been there with all our injuries our favor." here," said Johnson. "He's a (Steve Cichy, Dave Duerson, 
The two interceptions very aggressive ballplayer. Tom DeSiato, Tom Gibbons, doubled Toran's career total, He's always around the ball, etc.) so we felt either Toran or and allowed Toran to concede and when you play like that, Chris brown would have to that, overall, "I had a pretty you're going to ,get a lot of help us_ right away. Stacey good day." interceptions.'' looked hke the person to give 
"I slacked off a little bit in A standoutjerformer in both us ~?e help we were looking playing the run,'' Toran said, football an basketball at for. "but I played a pretty good Broad Ripple High School in . Toran didn't mind moving game on pass coverage.'' Indianapolis, Toran came to mto the permanent home his 
Johnson, in his fifth year as Notre Dame as a receiver and a coaches ·had made for him. In a Notre Dame assistant, wasn't defensive back. Irish coaches fact, the locale sutied his tastes overly surprised by Toran's big settled on the defensive back­just fine. day, and expects other equally field as a home for Toran "I'd rather hit than be hit," 
he says, only half jokingly. "Playing aggressive keeps you around the ball, and that's
, , . Fight 
always been my basic style.'' 
continued from page 12 the end of th12th round, and IRISH ITEMS--A ''Bury the was behind 8-3-1 on The Wolverines" pep rally is 
hear and blazing TV lights of 
Observer card at that point. ~ch_eduled for 7 p.m. tonight,Las Vegas, that may have Hearns' insistent left jab 1ns1de Stepan Center. Films seemed the sensible route for continually snuck inside of highlighting Michigan gamesLeonard. 
Leonard's guard, and Leon­from the past two years will be But Hearns also displayed a ard's left eye was almost shown at the rally. . . sched­wariness of moving in close, completely shut after the 12th uled guests at the rally include instead content to jab and fall round. ~ead Coach gerry Faust, run­back, without allowing Leonard 
But the 13th began Hearns' nmg back coach Greg Blache,the opportunity to counter­fatal slide, at which point his cornerback) ohn Krimm, offen­punch. Leonard rarely counter­deceptively quick hands ceased sive tackle Phil Pozderac, the 
punched anyway, and after five fendmg off Leonard's offen­
cheerleaders, the marchingrounds, Hearns had won four. sives, and the 14th is probably band and the entire football At this point, Leonard 
team.
See FIGHT, page 8

launched a two-round initiative which seemed to be the begin­
T!:I!JRSDAY-NIGHT FILM. SERlE.,......
ning of the end. Leonard finally released the churning fury 
Thursday, September 17 

Scarface United Artists 1931 (99 min.) Produced, then suppressed, by Howard Hughes, this 
which had destroyed 30 of his 
first 31 professional opponents, 
Howard Hawks' film is one of the earliest and best
and Hearns' knees were rub­
gangster films. With cinematography by Lee Garmes, a
bery ar the end of both the 
screenplay by Ben Hecht and a cast including Paul Muni,
sixth and seventh frames. 
Ann Dvorak, George Raft and Boris Karloff. 
But in the eighth, Leonard reverted to his dance routine, 
·MUSELIM OF ART 
backpedaling in the Ali 
7:30 pm admission 51.00
fashion, and getting tagged 
just enough to lose the next 
·sponsored by the ND-SMC 
four rounds decisively. He trailed on all judges cards at ~~COiv1MUNiCATION & THEATR~~~ 
INTERESTED IN MEXICO THIS SPRING SEMESTER? 
1982 ONE-SEMESTER PROGRAMS Cuemavaca
Mexico City 

Program in Global
Universidad Iberoamericana 
Community INFORMATION NIGHT 
Library Lounge 7 : 30 p. m. Thursday , September 17 Offered by: Center for Experiential Learning Marcia leMay 1110 Memorial Library x2788 
Application deadline SOON 





The Observer _ Thursday, September 17, 1981 -page 10 
1,.._ 
-
...­
audio sounds
••••._........., llldwat .... 522zz4836 
• ............., Ce....a. front of Mall on Grape Rd. Ph. 277·1800 11-9.Mon.-Sat. (1~-5 Sun. Mishawaka 0.~) 


GET IT ALL 
ALOT OF MUSIC~ 
L-19,
L-40

FOR NOTA LOT 
1SO watts, 10", 2-Way 100 watts perI ch. Reg. $570.00 pr. Reg. $390.00 pr. 
L-96,300 watts,10 ,l-way OF MONEY. 
399PR 288PR
reg.$790 599 PR 
··························~··················································· 
harmon kardon 
DOLBYHX If you are not satisfied with a 50 watts 
per ch receiver, buy h k 460 I ••• •• •••
3D watts per ch 

was 32995 •
• 

: AT A ROCK BOTTOM PRICE 
now only 24995 • •• WAS 350°0 now only 24795 
•

.............................................................................
. . 
-~:f.~~~~?;~~ : AIW A .·: 
I'. • 
. •'::' :.\1•'l. 9995 • 
'<l:j• d al" •• 
·.,, ;;: 7-ban equ tzer • 
1 
•

·i•i·. 
•
,~·l,q.
··ll· 

for your car,
14j!: • 'If e 

·~ml! 
c : 

10 year unconditional warranty : featuring 20 watts pe~~c~~r·-,-·•.,.,. ; 

39.95 
10 to 7 5 watts handling • • capabili~y : with built-in fader : 
••••••••••••••••••••··~···••••••••••••••••••••••••••••C•••••••••••••••••••••• 
Audio S<;>unds handles many fine lines... AUTO SOUND : . 
AMBER INFINITY • AIWA JBL AIWA : AUDIO CONTROL KEF CONCORD : 
DENON KLH FUJITSU TEN : DUAL NIKKO EPI • EPICURE OPTONICA L'JFINTITY : ~SONY BLANK TAPE 
HITACHI ROTEL JENSEN : Crome IT Cr02 -e-90 HARNMON KARDON TANDBURG MAGNADYNE • 
FOSGATE : 2995 for 10 tapes : 50o/o off 
• 

1. 
We give loaners for receivers and amplifiers while we service yours ..... 3". We guarantee 80% trade in value within 18 months of purchase. 

2. 
We offer price protection. If any of our competition advertises lower 4. Bring us the ad of our competition and we wilfe1ther give you the price than ours in 30 days frqm your purchase, YOU GET THE same or comparable unit for their sale price and you aon't pay the DIFFERENCE BACK IN CASH! sales tax! 



.The Obsenrer -~-=-,--... =.... ~=-=-::-::-:-===-=-=­
T0 da~========================T=hur=;:sd=a=y=,Se=pt=e=m=b=er=1=7='=1=9=8=1=-=p=ag=e=l=tl 
Molarity 
01\J NO 1/ THEY LEFT WITI/0(/( 

I WILL NC:VEFi 5££'MY 
HE,.. Hf6P.6l£:5Hif LAN!>£/? 
HoH£ PLAIJ£1 L ! 5SARB 
HEfff," BUI TIIFY L£FI HE 
Ac,AIN ,., 6H Tf;AP,FVL PAY, 
B£HJNJ> ... U>I>KI'{DI) tAN 5£t 
WHAT WILl.. :rPO 7 OI-l HORRIBLE, 
71+E HDLG 1.-EH BY-n-1£ LEG,S 
Simon 
•.• SO 1 WJ95 !?EI'lL SUIRED A&>UT 115ktN6 lleR OUT j 

fl 'DREAM Sfi!D, "F!?ANI<., I )I/5T ])/DN'T kNOW WHI'IT 


/'1y S())J I 'I(J(J ONI. y GO To !XJ 1 
IV?OUND ONCE/'' 
\ 

"fhe Daily Crossword 
©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
The Student Union presents 
Michael Molinelli 
:Z: MU5T MATt:: wrrn '(0/J, JIH... 
I'/...L START A NC.W~£ OF 
LA~f>ARB-HUMAN5 ,.. You AND :r WILL EE 11/E NEIJ AD4H 


Jeb Cashin 
BI.IT Z:ON'T YOU THINk THI/T M£:55146-c SETTLES TH£ 155U£ Of Rt'!NCiif?IJATIOtJ? " 
):' i 



.50 fi~E YOI/ GotNG ro 14SI\ He~ OUT? 
Of/ ... I'll/ STILL NOT SUI/€. 

ACROSS 1 Embrace 6 Clerical 
cloaks 
10 Word with black or post 
14 Precedes spots or wurst 22 Neither masc.nor fern. 

23 Meet a bet 24 Fairy tale milieu 26 Fabled land 
of plenty 30 Networks 32 Choir 
ciously 

.........• OJncert Ticket Lottery 7 PM Thursday September 17 in the Nazz 
• 
~ 
•
..... 
• 

..,.........:.•"\ ... flit? {()ITIITI()cl()ff?§ •,..._••........... ........ ******************************t......••. : 
•
•
...... 
: 
: 
•
! 

Campus 
noon --social concerns film, "something beautiful for god,'' Iafortune little theatre 
4 p.m. --radiation lab seminar, "through space," dr. daniel m. chipman, conference room rad lab 
4:30 p.m. --kenna lecture series, ''a duality," prof. c.w. curtis, 226 ccmb 
4:45p.m. --colloquium, "heidegger amd focault," prof. hubert I. dreyfus, u. of calif-berkeley, memorial library lounge, sponsored by govt. and int'l studies 
6:30 p.m. --meeting, aiesec, Iafortune little theatre 7 p.m. --pep rally, "bury the wol­verines,'' stepan center 7 p.m. -· lottery, the commodores, Iafortune nazz, sponsored by student union 
7, 9:30, 12 p.m. --movie, "close encounters of the third kind," engr. aud, sponsored by sailing club 
7:30p.m.--film, "scarface," annenberg aud, snite museum 
8:30 p.m. --film, "a man for all seasons," ets theatre, sponsored by thomas more society 
"felevision "fonight 
7:oop.m. . 16 Games People Play 22 Magnum PI 28 Best of the Week 34 Julia Child & More Co. 
46 Message for the Hou~ 7:30p.m. 28 NFL Football Special, Philadelphia at Buffalo 34 The Victory Garden 46 Pattern for Living 8:00p.m. 16 Thursday Night Movie, Jennifer: A Woman's Story 22 Nurse 34 Sneak Previews 46 Lester Sumrall Series 8:30p.m. 34 Vic Braden's Tennis 46 Pattern for Living 9:00p.m. 22 Knots Landing 34 Masterpiece Theatre 46 Today with Lester Sumrall 
10:00 p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 34 The Dick Cavett Show 46 Jack Van Impe 
10:30 p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Quincy & The Saint 28 Newswatch 28 34 Capti.oned ABC News 46 Blackwood Brothers 
11:00 p.m. 28 ABC News Nightline 46 Praise the Lord 
11:30 p.m. 16 Tomorrow Coast to Coast 28 Charlie's Angels 
************** 
~ Pep Rally at 7 p.m. ~ ~ Stepan Center ~ 
1C************1C 
43 Mortal sins 44 Adjust 
beforehand 45 More stingy 48 Peer Gynt's 
mother 49 -and hounds 50 Video receptor 

12 Big wheel 13 Gabble 21 First down 
yardage 
goal 25 Commercials 26 Ugly wound 27 Butterine 28 Smoker 29 Levelhead· 
15 -from complement 57 Czar edness the blue 33 Newman 58 Repulsive 30 Objectives 
16 Stravinsky in "The 59 Rye fungus 31 Croissant 
17 Met diva Hustler" 60 Cans 33 Ring out lucine 37 Gun catch 61 Those lor 34 Minor 18 Pointed 38 Christmas 62 Relative prophet arch or Easter 63 Feedthe 35 Split 19 Russian 39 ldi-kitty 36 Gordian-saint 40 Takes more 64 Indians 38 Rider's 20 Eat some· than one's 65 Kneehole supports thing vora· share and rolltop 41 "-got a 
42 Utah city pocketful..." 
DOWN 42 Feign 1 Type of 44 "-love hammer ·you" 2 Car, for 45 Dancer short Rivera 3 Of grand· 46 Star of 
parents "Alice" 4 Thrall 47 Genefluc· 5 Covers with tion figure 
kudos 48 Chasm 6 Quarters 51 Indian city 7 Trademark 52 Group 8 Exploded 53 Border lake 9 Printing 54 Ripens 
devices 55 Hudson 10 Most ~ 56 Agnes and 11 Shoelace Catherine: 
tip abbr. 
:"SUPER SPECIAL" week continues at :
• 

~~&BRJIOBA JI&Jaii : 
•

Tonight's Super Special: WATERMELONS : special after 11 :30 •
• 

Fri. sept 18 Margaritas •• Sat. sept 19 Wine Cooler : come on out and get prepared for the : .. MICHIGAN MASSACRE! ! •
• 


Thursday, September 17, 1981 -page 12
S~orts 

Two interceptions 
Stacey Toran comes of age 
By MARK HANNUKSELA who awarded the sophomore then comes up with another Sports Wn'ter cornerback a game ball. timely theft on third down. The theft also had its impact Once again, he has quelled a 
Gerry Faust has, among on Notre Dame defensive co­rally. others, Stacey Toran to thank ordinator and backfield coach According to Johns<?n, for his first victory as Notre Jim Johnson. Toran's second interception Dame's head football coach. ''That interception stopped a was just as important as the 
Sure, the Kids and Koegels, big third down play," said first, despite the fact that LSU the Crables nd Griffiths were Johnson this week. "If they was throwing from its own instrumental in the 27-9 victory score, were on y up seven. territory.
I ' I " 

over LSU. But Stacey Toran And that, dear friends, ''The momentum had swung was the game-saver ... would have made it an entirely right before that second inter­
It's late in the first quarter. different ball game. ception," said Johnson. "We A blue-and-gofd-clad Irish Alas. a hero's work is never had fumbled on the first play squad have ndden a wave of done ... after the opening kickoff, then emotion to a 14-0 lead over an The scoreboard clock reads came back and threw that LSU team stzll smarting from 11:14 as LSU takes over on interception (which LSU turned an opening-game loss. The downs after holding Notre into a field goal, making the Tigers have the ball, and are Dame to one total yard in its score 20-3). The momentum dn'ving toward a much-needed first two second-half series. had shifted to LSU. touchdown, one that could The blue knight reappears to 
See TORAN, page 9narrow the gap to a mere seven stop a first down pass attempt, points.· Quarterback Alan Rischer drops back to pass from the Notre Dame 22-yard 

Leonard pummels Hearns
line. Ace receiver james McDaniel breaks open for a split second in the corner ofthe 
with TKO in 13th round
endzone. By the time Rischer reacts, a knight in blue fish-net has stepped in front of the Hearns' head, and he stag­
By TOM JACKMAN

unguarded Tiger, and the pass gered back three steps before
Sports Wn'ter

hits the hero nght between the falling into the ropes. 3 and the 0 which adorn the Leonard raised his arms in front of his jersey. The threat After fighting a clearly los­triumph, but realized the task has been averted. ing battle for 13 rounds, Sugar was not yet finished. Hearns 
While the importance of the Ray Leonard pummeled struggled off the ropes, and Toran interception may have Thomas Hearns into battered Leonard moved in quickly, Notre Dame's field hockey team ran its record to 3-0 been lost to those purely submission at 1:16 of the 14th teeing off with the left and yesterday with a 9-0 win at Franklin. junior Kathy Ray offensive-minded ans, it was round last night in Las Vegas, right hooks that usually mark scored five goals for the In.sh. [photo by Cheryl Ertelt] not lost on Toran's teammates, winning by technical knockout the end of a fight. Thrity 
and thereby uniting the world seconds later, it was stopped.
-~=========================================================== welterweight boxing title under Besides holding .the welter­For water polo his name. weight championship, Leonard 
The victory by Leonard unof­also reigns supreme in the ficially unites the World Box­junior middleweight division. ing Council title, which he He took that title away from 
holds, with the World Boxing Ayub Kalule in a ninth-round Association crown, which knockout last June. In seven Hearns held, in the welter­championship bouts, Leonard 
Second season looks better 
In last year's inaugural season of water polo weight division. Whether those has knocked out six of his at Notre Dame, sophomore John Smith, the 
associations will recognize opponents, losing only once, to 
so-called (by teammates) player-coach of this Leonard is unknown, since the Roberto Duran in June of lastyear's squad, was quite disappointed at what fighters agreed to ignore those 
year.

he saw as a disorganized and sometimes just 
sanctioning bodies rather than The defeat was the first for plain careless team. pay the large percentage the the 22-year-old Hearns, the
Having played water polo at his high school WBA and WBC charge for Detroit native who had won 30in California, Smith brought to Notre Dame a official approval of a title bout. of his previous 32 fights bysophisticated knowledge of the sport. Bringing extra activity that goes on underwater which Leonard knew he trailed knockout.
along a playbook from UCLA and enthusiastic the referees won't see. 
ba9ly going into the 13th, and Leonard's strategy, first pop­ideas, it seemed like he was ready to go down "It's quite a sight sometimes when you see 
abandoned the agonizing, ularized by the "rope-a­
-in history as the "Father of Notre Dame Water one of the guys go underwater for no apparent Muhammad Ali-like defensive doping'' Muhammad AliPolo.'' reason--at least from what you can see. That's style which had allowed the against George Foreman inNot quite. when you know that the rules are being "Motor City Cobra" to pile up Zaire in 1974, seemed to be to"I took so much crap last year," he recalls challenged. Of course, there are other times the points. But with less than lay back and let the opponent now in humorous fashion. ''The older guys on players will sink underwater to make the two minutes left in the round, punch himself out in the earlythe team, especially the seniors, were just referee think that something unethical on the Leonard began the first of his rounds. Hearns had never gonesimply not going to listen to some freshman defensive side is being done." 
awesome assaults. Quickly los­more than 13 rounds beforeguide them on some of the basics. There was "lt's_a matter of knowing the tricks of the ing the momentum, Hearns this fight, and in the 97-degreejust no organization.'' trade," Smith adds with a smile. 
walked into a crashing left

And although a 4-7 record wasn't bad for a "It's a very aggressive game," continues See FIGHT, page 9 
uppercut, and Leonard fol­team in its first season, there is greater promise McDivitt, "but it usually doesn't get as violent lowed with a furious flurryof establishing a winner this year. or dirty as it can sound. There's always a lot of which drove Hearns first into"We're going to be a lot better," says senior action going on which makes the game exciting 

the ropes, then straight

Pat McDivitt, the club president. "We have a and fast moving. · through the ropes with a rightlot of top-notch guys coming back and about 'We had quite a few people who came to jab from in close. · four new players who really are looking good.'' watch our matches last year (four home Hearns got up, somewhatSmith adds the major point, though. matches will be played at the Rockne Memorial dazed, and Leonard returned to"There's a much better attitude being pool later this fall) and we hope that we can get fight the "close-in" battle thatdisplayed this year. We're all excited about the some people this year. I'm sure they'd see he had been avoiding for most .,.. prospects for the team, and we're working hard some good games they'd enjoy." 
of the bout. A second viciousin the practices. Now we have some organiza­The returnees are headed by high-scoring blitz drove Hearns through thetion.'' junior Tom Austgen, who'll be running the ropes again with eight seconds Members of the 12-team Mideastern Water offense this year, and Smith. 

left in the round, but HearnsPolo Conference, the team begins its season "John was our MVP last year. He doesn't survived the bell and returnedwith a match at the University of Michigan (a score very much, but most goal scoring to his corner.

top member of the conference) on Saturday originates around him since he has such a good Still, Hearns' lead was bigmorning. The top six teams of the conference knowledge of the same," says McDivitt. 
enough that he could afford towill compete for the championship on Nov. 8. But the defense 1s just as important, which is drop the round and still win theThe match itself consists of a goalie and six why McDivitt and the team are counting heavily fight --if he could remainfield players at a time in the pool for each team, on sophomore Chris Packer in front of the goal. 

standing. He did, but barely.

with the basic object of catapulting the spheroid "He's looked outstanding in the practices Leonard took the offensiveinto the goal. Of course, there are certam rules we've had so far this year. Chris probably will again in the 14th, thoughinvolved --no matter how much McDivitt and be the major key to our season and success.'' 
Hearns appeared to have re­Smith start giggling while eating their dinner in Others who are expected to make major covered early in the round.

the dining hall as they start expounding on the contributions this year are the senior trio of Then, without warning, the onerules. Ryan Gorey, Mike Marks andJim Link. 
punch Leonard is not supposed Says McDivitt, ''The game revolves around ''This year I think we can get in and compete to possess, a knockout punch,.,. penalties so that a team can get to be up a man See POLO, page 9 arrived. A huge roundhouse

in the pool. But, ofcourse, there is always some Sugar Ray Leonard
right crashed straight into 






