..--~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·----­
• , • Internships page 4 

By KELLI FLINT said. "Let 1000 flowers flourish if "Our basic belief is that the only Hxenltive News Editor they are against nuclear war." way for the situation to be brought Hesburgh mentioned that he is under control is by a change in con· 
Boston cardiologist james Muller, working on the possibility of sciousness regarding nuclear war." one of the founders of the Interna­organizing scientists and religoius Muller added that change has to be tional Physicans for the Prevention leaders at the highest level to begin brought about first with breaking of Nuclear War, delivered the to do something worldwide about denial. "The latest Newsweek poll lecture "Consequences of Nuclear the effort against nuclear war. shows that 47 percent of American War" as part of Notre Dame's par­"I was so caught up in a conversa­people worry about nuclear war, but ticipation in the Convocation on the tion (regarding this possibility) that don't like to think about it," he said. Threat of Nuclear War. I went home and made a reservation "It's because it's being put out of 
University President Fr. Theodore to go to Vienna over Thanksgiving so their minds that the problem is get­
M. Hesburgh introduced Muller, a that maybe we can set up a meeting ting out ofcontrol. Notre Dame graduate, to a full in Europe at the highest level of "We will never change the course audience in the Memorial Library religious and scientific competence t we're on until it is brought out ofthe 
auditorium, noting that he was in the very near future," he said. subconscious and into the con­delighted to see so many students Muller began by expressing his scious where it can be acted on. and faculty members present. excitement at hearing Hesburgh's What we've done as doctors is to try 
Hesburgh said that civilization plan for bringing religious and scien­and present what a nuclear bomb now faces obliteration from "inner" tific leaders togethc:r. "It was worth will do." rather than "outer" space. "There is a day for that," he said. Muller noted that there is no ef· a reawakening of the human race to At an earlier press conference, fective medical response to a 
the fact that we arc on the verge of Muller explained the area in which nuclear attack. "Nuclear weapons blowing ourselves up," he added. "I his organization plans to work for are instruments of mass destruc­don't know if there's any problem the prevention ofnuclear war. tion," he said. more worthy ofour attention." "Our group was founded in 1978, "We are talking to college students 
Hcsburgh noted that there is a before the presidential election," he about nuclear war in the hope of "spontaneous-combustion" type said. We are not a reaction to Presi­increasing the response of the movement in response to the threat dent Reagan. We arc a reaction to public." of nuclear war. adding that he is glad the nuclear arms race itself. "I think our efforts will have an ef­that universities are spearheading "Our position is that it has gone fect on the nuclear arms race. Al­this movement. "The movement out ofcontrol, technology and com­though there is no direct effect at is tinl up with many currents," he puters are in control now." this point. The process will not b(' 
easy or quickline. We need a 3-4 year process ofpublic eduation." The convocation is sponsored by 
the Union of Concerned Scientists, and over 140 campuses in 36 states, as well as the Universities ofToronto and Rome, participated. 
Malloy explains failure 
of sexual hedonism 
By RICH COLLIS The audience was a mixture of Denied accreditation News Staff students and adults who filled the small lecture room. Last night, Fr. Edward Malloy, an Malloy's style and format were 
Hispanic college faces decline 
assodate professor in the Notre similar to classroom lectures, and Dame Department of Theology, his line of reasoning was easy to fol­By STIWE GRAHAM attack from the local Mexican­year is S 120,000, down from ddivcred a lecture entitled "Why low. Most people in attendance AssociatedPress American community that gave it $350,000 last year, but a federal Not Sexual Hedonism?" in the seemed to agree with Malloy, al­life. gram of 570,000 to help pay the ex­Hayes-Healy Auditorium. thuugh a few seemed to find fault "At one time the Colegio was penses is being challenged by the 
The lecture was the third in the with his explanation of chastity and MOUNT ANGEL, Ore. (AP) -doing a good job -but not now," Mount Angel Chamber of Com­ongoing Catholic Inquiry Lecture celibacy. The lecture was, however, Colegio Cesar Chavez was born said Martin Rodriquez, chairman of merce. Series. a clear and reasonable answer to the eight troubled years ago as the tlrst Centro Chicano Cultural, a local Only three teachers, Including 
Using the premise that sexual advocation of sexual freedom so college run for and by Hispanics. service agency that once helped bail one volunteer, remain on the hedonism ("pleasure seeking as a prevalent in today's society. Now the school is broke and under the liberal arts college out of finan­campus, which consists ofa meeting 

way oflife") is just a fantasy, Fr. Mal­loy showed that true sexuality, sexuality in the real world, is prac­ticable only in the Christian 
Students offer ideas 
perspective, i.e .. marriage. "Sexual hedonism is a real pos­sibility only in the human imagina­
for space allotment
tion," Malloy maintained, "for it fails to understand properly the nature of the human person as enfleshed CATHY DOMANICO dents. spirit, the most satisfying form of Saint Mary's News Editor After Murphy opened the personal encounter, and the limits discussion for questions, several 
to human self-determinism." Eileen Murphy spoke last night students expressed concern that before a small but enthusuastic administrators would not consider crowd in LeMans Hall lobby about their opinions.
'Sexual hedonism is a the space allotment for the old Murphy said that the Board of library. Regents and Alumnae need to hear real possibility only in Murphy explained the goals of the students views to change the the College Committee, an or­system. "They'll listen," Murphy 
the human imagination.' ganization designed to decide stated, "they all listen." what facilities should be moved in­Students then voiced their to the old library. opinions on how the old library
Malloy stressed that sexual fantasy The Committee, comprised of should be utilized. Most felt thedetracts from a person's humanity administrators, faculty, and stu­need for more lounging space, abecause it can distort the view of dents, would like to center student snack bar, and a "21 Club."
human happiness and encourage 
social life on campus in order to in­Thus far, the College Commit­manipulation oftechnique and tech­crease cohesion in the Saint Mary's tee identified the followingnology to get a partner for pleasure community. The Committee also facilities and services which willwith no knowledge ofregret, guilt or hopes to increase awareness and help attain their goals:failure. 
participation in student organiza­1. Multipurpose rooms whichThe Christian perspective, on the 
tions. can be reserved for debates,other hand, relics on love, faithful­This goal involves encouraging lectures, and free Universityness to promise, and discipliot:d 
student participation in cultural Classes.
sexual gesturing (saving oneself for 
activities on campus, as well as in­
one's spouse) as the Church's tenets See FORUM, page 4
formal association among stu­
for true sexuality. 
c~al difficulties. hall, dormitory and classroom build­
Local Hispanic leaders who ing on the edge oftown. juan Prats, a founded the school wanted it to be a member ofthe school's board, says it "college without walls," offering stu­is considering selling the buildings dents credit for such practical ex­to pay expenses and moving the perience as working as a teacher's school to nearby Woodburn. aide, learning how to deal with state Nearly all the rooms stand vacant, agencies and working for various or­paint peels from neglected walls and ganizations in the Portland area. often a secretary is the only person 
To earn a bachelor's degree, stu­around during daylight hours. The dents had to pr<'pare reports on dormitory is empty and surrounded their activities for review by a by weeds. student-faculty committee as well as But some of the school's suppor­complete courses in more conven­ters refuse to give up, even after ac­tional subjects like algebra, English creditation was denied last summer ;md POlitical science. by the Northwest Association of 
Schools and Colleges because of the
------------------------~·~ 
college's financial problems.
THURSDAYM'"I "There were a lot of people who 
felt that ... the Colegio would fold and die," said instructor Gloria San· doval, a graduate of the school. "That hasn't happened. If I have The school, named-after the presi­
·-·Fo-cus~; 
three students, if I have two stu­dent of the United Farm Workers 
dents, if I have one student, I will do union, had 126 students in 1973 
my best." when it opened on the campus of 
The college has had to persuade defunct Mount Angel College. 
prospective students to spendBut enrollment has declined 
51,500 a year for credits that might steadily since then, and the institu­
not be accepted anywhere else. tion now claims only 11 part-time 
Nearby, accredited Che.meketa students, most of them attending 
Community College charges $540 a night school in borrowed clas­
year. srooms in Portland, 40 miles away. Its budget for the current school See DECLINE, page 4 


News Brie!§ 
I Thursday, November 12, 1981 -page 2 
j 
By I 'he ( Jhsert•er and !be Associated Press 
Columbia suffered.technological growing pains on the eve ofits scheduled return to space and its launch target was put back until mid-morning today by an errant data relay system. The ship underwent a series oflaunch pad repairs last night and officials decided against a sunrise liftoff. The new target is for 10 a.m. EST, said L. Michael Weeks of the National Aeronautics and Space Ad­ministration, although the launch could come anytime before noon -the final moment in Columbia's "launch window." After hours of conferences between the various space centers and industry ex­perts, NASA "determined a course ofaction which could result" in a liftoffat 10 a.m., according to a space agency spokesman. Columbia's crew was ready, but at dusk a NASA official said, "The problems are not resolved," and there was still no go-ahead for overnight fueling. There remained a strong possibility ofa second scrubbed launch in as many weeks. As dark enveloped the shuttle, space center spokes­man Hugh Harris said "testing is continuing on the pad." -AP 

nuclear defenses as a warning to the Soviet Union. 

bondfor allegedly raping and murdering Sis­
But mostly it was a day ofi:ribute to the men and women who died in 
ter Tadea Benz at the St. Francis Convent on
battle from a bridge in Concord, Mass., where the musket shots gave 
October 31. 
birth to a nation, to the jungles ofVietnam where M -16s rattled for an 
obscure cause. It was 60 years to the day since 93-year-old Hamilton Fish Sr. had placed the first wreath at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier in Ar­lington Cemetery in Washington, the grave of a fellow Doughboy 
AP 
killed in the trenches ofFrance during World War I. Fish returned to the shrine Wednesday to repeat for a crowd of 3,000 spectators the words he had spoken on Nov. 11, 1921: 
Photo
"On behalfofthe ex-servicemen ofthe United States Army of World War I, I welcome this opportunity ..." A jet flying overhead drowned out the rest. -AP 
File 
A television special featuring the University of Notre Dame will be carried Sunday, Nov. 15 by South Bend's WNDU­TV at 3:30p.m. (EST). The 30-minute program, one in a series on the 

The Navyran up the flag yesterday on the mightiest sub­marine ever built, professors preached the horror of a nuclear holocaust, and old soldiers with feeble voices laid wreaths on the graves offallen comrades. 
Veterans Day, 1981, was a day of demonstration and speeches, for and against President Reagan's concept of rebuilding the nation's 
mysteries of the rosary produced by Family Theater Productions in Hollywood, Calif, is called "The Visitation." Portions filmed at Notre Dame include selections sung by the Notre Dame Glee Club, under the direction ofCarl Starn, as well as an interview with Head Football Coach Gerry Faust by program host Bob Newhart. Mother Teresa, the nun whose work with the poor in Calcutta, India, has gained worldwide praise, appears in scenes shot in Washington, D.C., with Fr. Patrick Peyton, the Holy Cross priest who founded the Family Theater to promote the rosary as prayer. Other portions ofthe show were filmed in England. -The Observer 
Poland's armydeclared yesterday that Solidarity's plan for resolving the nation's crisis "is loaded with a sizable explosive charge." Lech Walesa, the independent union's leader, raised the possibility of violence if the government takes action against strikers. Walesa told a rally ofstriking coal miners in Sosnowiec, "A solution by strength does not come into consideration, but it c t annot be ex­cluded...When they come, we will hang on to their (rifle) barrels, 
and we will direct them to another side." 
His remarks, distributed by Solidarity's information service, were 
considered a significant departure from the conciliatory language he 
has used in the past week, as representatives of Solidarity and the 
government prepared for negotiations Friday on the country's social 
and economic ills. -AP 
A Chicago substitute teacher whose coffee was spiked with LSD by a curly haired teen-ager while his eighth-grade classmates looked on said yesterday she is baffled by the class' cruelty and may not resume her teaching career. "Today, children get a kick out of things like this," 60-year-old An­toinette Indovina said from her hospital bed. "Otherwise, why didn't they (the other pupils) stop me?" Mrs. Indovina, a teacher in Roman Catholic schools for 2 5 years, said the experience left her feeling like she "wanted to die." "I'm terribly bitter right now," she said. ''I'm terribly upset with the children. I couldn't believe anyone would ever do this." The silver-haired teacher said a 14-year-old boy dropped a tablet of what police called "Orange Sunshine" LSD into her coffee while her back was turned on the class at Notre Dame school. 
The boy, who was not identified, later told school officials and police he had drugged Mrs. Indovina after he was sent to the principal's office for throwing paper airplanes, said police detective Thomas Sherry. -AP 
Sunnyand a little warmer today with highs in the mid 50s. Most­ly clear and cold tonight with lows in the low 30s. Mostly sunny­tomorrow with highs in the upper 50s. -AP 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY!: 
Astronaut Richard Truly receives a birthday card from the art students at Carverjones Elementary School ofTexas, who found out that SUSPECT ARRAIGNED: 
Truly's birthday coincided with the rescheduled johnny Frank Garrett, 17, is escorted to his
launching of the Space Shuttle Columbia. The arraignment in Amarillo, Texas, by his mot­
children wished bim a blast on his birthday. her, Charlotte Cameron. Garrett was denied 
SHUTrLE AWAITS LAUNCH: 
The space shuttle Columbia awaits launching on Pad 39A at Kennedy Space Center, before its scheduled lift-offat 10:00 this morning. At left is a huge hydrogen gas storage tank used for the final fueling process ofthe shuttle. 
OUT OF THE FRYING PAN: 
Rescue workers gather around a 440-pound cow thatfell into a manhole in a Bangkok street. The cow was stuck for nearly three hours, and workers broke her legs pulling her out. She was later returned to a local slaughterhouse from which she had st:._a}!_e_d. ______ 
~================::::=.
The_Qhs.eryer 
Design Editor.......... .... Monica Gugle Design Assistants .... ......... Randy Rentner 
Typesetter....................... ............... Mike)ans News Editor ................................... Kelli Flint Copy Editor ..................... Tom Melsheimer 
Paula Groves Sports Copy Editor .............Skip Desjardin Typist .................................... )ohn McCarthy Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor ......................... David Grote Photographer............................ Rudy Perez Guest Appearances .............. New Recruits John"Magic Fingers" McGrath The Amazing Maura Timo Farrell, Marilyn Larkin 
Students· 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and· on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation penods. The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col­lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by 
University Park Mall and
vntlng The Observer. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction 
Towll: and Country­
nghts are reserved Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
Mishawaka-
Editorial Board 
==Ibe__Qhsenrer== Editor-in-Chief..... . ..... John McGrath THE INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
l:!xecutive News Editor.........................Kelli Flint Sports Editor .........................."....Michael vrtman SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
News Editor ..................................Tim Vercellotti Editorials Editor.......................Anthony Walton FOUNDED NOV. 3, IJ66 News Editor.............................David Rickabaugh 
Photo Editor........................................)ohn Macor The Observer is an independent Editorials represent the opinion of a 
SMC Executive Editor...........Mary Agnes Carey 
Features Editor.........................Gregory Swiercz newspaper published by the students of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commen· SMC News Editor...................... Cathy Domanico University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint taries, opinions and letters are the views of Mary's College. It does not necessarily their authors. Column space is available to Department Managers reflect the policies of the administration of all members ofthe COfTimunity, and the free either institution. The news is reported as expression of varying opinions on campus, . B,ll.!_iness Manaser ........................Rich Coppola accurately and as objectively as possible. through letters, is encoura~ed. Production Manager.. .....Michael Monk Controller .................................j'oe Multlur Circulation Manager ... .........Tom MacLennan Advertising Manager....................... Chcis Owen
P.O.BOX Q,NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 (219)283-8661 
-----------------~-----------------------------· 
The Observer Thursday, November 12, 1981-page 3 'Progressive' 
Kevles defines history of science 
ByRANDALLGOSKO~CZ , sional societies, such as the sciences were too abstract to be of News Staff American Chemical Society, and practical value. highly selective organizations for Scientists began to be seen as a 
Dr. Daniel ]. Kevles spoke on the establishment of true scientists group of "impetuous, self-seeking , "Science: the Development of a were formed. and ambitious men." The pure Profession" to an audience of ap­By 1865, the lay amateur that had sciences, which had taken a proximately 70 people Tuesday previously used science as a preoc­desperate hold in the universities, night. This lecture is the sixth of a cupation with natural observation began to shift in the direction ofthe series of 1 I sponsored by the had been totally excluded except "diffusion, not advanceme-nt, of Department of History. for the minute power he held as a science." 
Dr. Kevles, a professor of history dues-paying member ofprofessional from the California Institute ofTech­societies controlled by true scien­It was not until 1890 that the nology, argued that although there tists. sciences could begin to claim has traditionally bt·en a strong con­The legitimatization period was legitimization on the order of pure nection made between d t emocracy characterized by three different science having an impact on practi­and the expansion of science, there ways in which science could cal results, especially in industry. has also been an attempt by science legitimatize esoteric science: by The Department ofStandards was to maintain a freedom from the con­using science as a tool to reveal formed as a federal agency specifi­trol ofthe laymen in the context ofa God's handiwork, by emphasizing cally for the standardization of "vulgar democracy." the value of the objective advice of­laboratory measurement. Science 
In the exposition of his argument, fered by the scientific community, formed the basis for a new group of Kevles defined the history ofscience and by showing the practical uses in regulatory agencies and the in America as a progression through industry, health fields, and defense research for defense mechanisms. four periods: preemptive, in­of purely esoteric scientific 
It was with World War II that the
stitutionalization, legitimatization research. 
value of science in defense hit an
and the search for profe!lsional The first ofthese applied until the 
apex and basic science was con­
autonomy. controversy created by Darwin sidered indispensible.
In the preemptive period, there created an atmosphere of opposi­was "the exclusion of the lay tion between science: and the: amateur from the scientific church is in the mind of the layman. 
'Lack of will''
method", leaving the "definitive On the basis of the last two met­natural observer" scientist out ofthe hods of legitimization, science was theatre ofserious scientific thought. somewhat unsucce!ISful for a long 
Grant sees global economic trouble 
In the institutionalization period, time. Edison and the Congress both the various sciences were seemed to reject what the scientists specialized and defined in profes-had to offer on the basis that the By MOLLY RYAN for all, and significantly reducing the cited the Irish and Calcutta Famines 
News Staff infant mortality rate. "Although as examples of countries whose these goals are idealistic in the con­governments failed to distribute james Grant, executive director text of past experience, they are available food to their starving 
of UNICEF, presented a lecture en­realistic in the will and commitment populations.
Prof. Rossi schedules 
titled "War on Hunger: Sincere to achieve them," Grant said. Dubbed "the silent emergency," Commitment or Empty Rhetoric?" The People's Republic of China, this pressing matter ofworld hunger Tuesday evening to a small audience japan, South Korea and Taiwan are can be dealt with, Grant assured.
lectures on wotnen 
in the Memorial Library Auditorium, countries whose governments have Governments must be pressured by addressing economic and political begun to successfully reach "the individuals to take positive action. ,By MICHAEL SCHIERL Sexes: An Immodest Proposal," issues which affect developing na­bottom halfofthe people" mainly by All major U.S. mov .cments, Grant 
StaffRept 1rter which appeared in the 1964 issue of 
tions ofthe world. transferring productive assets. The asserted, have been initiated by
DaeLlalus, along with Betty Fridan's 
Acknowledging that the present "extraordinary determination at the people who force the governmentProfessor Alice Rossi, President­book, The Feminine Mystique, is global economy is in trouble, Grant governmental level" in these to become involved. The civil rights, elect of the American Sociological one ofthe earliest expressions ofthe expressed his belief that certain countries was praised by Grant, who women's and environmentalAssociation and an original leader of feminine equality movement a.~ it is economic goals can be achieved by believes government involvement is crusades, along with the Americanthe feminist movt·mt·nt, will present known today. 
the end of the century. These goals, an essential clement in winning the Revolution itself, arc examples of two vit-ws on tht· movement based Her tirst talk is based on her ob­as enumerated by the United Na­war against hunger. such movements. 
on her experience and research. servation of the National Conven­tions General Assembly, include Grant attributed a "lack ofwill on Grant emphasized the need toThe first public lecture will be at tion of Women in 1977. Its eradicating mass hunger and mal­the part of the governments" as
7:30 p.m. tonight in the library behind-the-scenes nature should be See GRANT, page 5
nutrition, introducing health care responsible for world hunger. He
lounge. The subject will be revealing of both the goals of the "1-'eminism and Politics: A Panel movement and the character of the Analysis of the First National women behind it. 

BARCLAY'S FRESH APPROACH: 
Women's Conft-rence." Her second talk is indicative ofthe 
Rossi will present a brown bag scholarly approach she has taken to talk entitled, "Biosocial Science: Its the movement, viewing it not as a Contribution to Explanation in the woman, but as a sociologist. Behavioral Scienn:s," tomorrow at The results of her biosocial 
12:15 p.m. in Room 'i09 of the research tend to assert women as library. being biologically as well as socially 
Professor Rossi, a member of the more apt to prefer the rewards of Department ofSociology at the Uni­parenting to those of other vversity of Massachusetts, Amherst, "careers." is an expert in her field and has been widdy published. Professor Rossi, through the ex­
Her works, attracting popular as ample ofher own life, seems to have well a.~ technical acclaim, have been proven the compatability of the featured in magazines and periodi­"complete woman" with today's cals such as Atlantic Monthly, society. In addition to career Dtledalus, Humanist, Harvard success and her fight for equality, liducationtl/ Review, and Redbook. Rossi is also a wife and mother of 
Her article, "Equality Between the three. 
ANYTHING GROWS 
FlORIST ..:campus ~e-llvery 272-8820
HOUSE PLANTS 
N. IROt~WOOD
GIFTS, TELEFLORIST at WIRE FLOWERS TOLL ROAD 
DIRECTLY get your hall formal EAST of CAMPUS corsages and boutonnieres 114mi. N. of Douglas 
free delivery to stepan center 
~--.-PREsENr-ftils-couPoN____ l 
I 25% discount on all house plants I 
I NO-SMC I 
I I I I 
·--------~----------------­




The Observer Thursday, November 12; 1981 -page 4 

· Sociology, Anthropology 
Departments expand internships 
By MICHAEL WILKINS ters. Participating students receive perience for graduate school or jobs News Staff three hours ofacademic credit. as well as developing interests and The department prefers up­attitudes for specific job markets." 
The Notre Dame Department of perclassmen to take the internships Sociology and Amhropolgy is as participants would receive educa­Students interested in the the expanding its internship program tional benefits commensurate with department's internships should see beginning next semester, according their academic background, Laman­Lamanna now or at second semester to Professor Richard Lamanna. na stated. However, he also noted pre-registration. 
The number of internships of­that there are no formal restrict t ions fered is increasing to 20 or 25, more on who may receive the internships The department has a wide than twice the number previously and that they are not limited to variety of jobs available for inter­offered, Lamanna said. The inter­Sociology majors. nships, according to Lamanna. "We nship is fulfilled by working six "There are many advantages in have placed people in jobs from hours a week at a local public or serving an internship," Lamanna hospitals to newspapers to social private agency for one or two semes-said. "Students gain practical ex-agencies," he added. 
continuedfrompage 1 
Ms. Sandoval said most students went elsewhere when accreditation was denied. The school must now wait two years before its accredita­tion application can be recon­sidered. 
Proudly displaying tbier newly created pottery, these students She said the association told the spend a pleasent afternoon in tbe oldfield bouse. (Photo by Rudy Colegio it had a good program. "The Perez) only thing they said was 'You are a 
Proposed bill controls nursing home abuses 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Nursing home operators who violate health and safety standards could face criminal penalties and fines of up to 
$10,000 under the terms ofa bill un­veiled yesterday by Sen. James Abraham, R-Anderson. 
Abraham, chairman of the 
Legislature's interim study commit­
tee on retirement and nursing 
homes, hailed the 38-page docu­
ment as "a sweeping reorganization 
of the whole process by which we 
regulate the health facilities industry 
and the enforcement powers that go 
with it." 
The bill is the product of months of work ·by the study committee, which gave the measu.re a line-by­line review at its meeting Wednes­day. 
"We recognize that the bill still has some fine-tuning that needs to be done," Abraham told his commit­tee. 
The bill will be introduced next Tuesday when the Legislature con­venes for a one-day organizational session before getting down to busi­ness in earnest in January. 
"I have been assured by the 
leadership of both houses that this 
bill, when it is introduced, will 
receive the highest priority that the 
leadership can give it," he told 
~ 1:\idtarbf.a 
JIA1H& IJ£&1J<£N~ . Just Open 6 days a ~ee}s~ -~ North 417 DIXIEWAY: / '-'-·~­of _ acros~.from Wendys CampQs._ 2_77-07~ . ... 

personalized Hair Desi~:ns 
Thursday, November 12 
Mildred Plercewarner Brothers 1945 (113 min.) Michael Curtlz directed this adaptation of James M. Cain's novel of maternal self-sacrifice for a monster-child. With Joan Crawford and Zachary Scott. Music by Max Steiner. 
laJ() J)lll ~USIU~ ()f tij)C).[)§()u~cl ~,. -~.lit? ctclrnl§§_~ll!l S1.()() ~() S~( (()~~U-~1(411()~ & 111141JlJ 
·reporters at a news conference ear­
lier in the day. 
"I am very hopeful that this finally 
is the bill that has the proper degree 
of compromise and general input," 
Abraham added. "It does not com­
promise principle." 
The bill would give the respon­
sibility for enforcement of nursing 
home regulations to the State Board 
of Health's health facilities division. 
Currently, the Health Facilities 
Council has that responsibility. 
The council, which would retain 
its present responsiblity for licens­
ing nursing homes, would be 
reduced from 1 7 members to 11 
members, all appointed by the 
governor. 
The bill sets up three categories of 
licenses: a full license; a probation­
ary license, which costs the same 
amount as a full license but can only 
be issued for three months; and a 
provisional license, contemplated 
for new facilities. 
The bill calls for more inspectors 
to visit Indiana's more than 500 
nursing homes and proposes a 
hearing-officer system to handle 
complaints. The measure is aimed at 
the 50 or so homes that are repeat 
violators of nursing home standards, 
he said. 
Abraham said the State Board of 
Health estimates it will take $250,000 annually to implement the proposed changes in the law. The money could come directly from licensing fees paid now by nursing homes and their administrators. That money is currently paid into the state's general fund, which is facing an $8.6 million deficit by next 
June 30. 
Abraham said he is hopeful that the necessary money can be pried away from the general fund. 
"There is no reason to pass that bill if we can't have the financial 
I For further information Write: Father Andre Ll'Veille. CSC Box 541 Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
• • • Decline 
poor institution,"' she said. "Somehow, some way we are going to continue." 
The meeting hall, its heating sys­tem broken, often is used by the Centro Chicano Cultural, which provided nearly S200,000 four years ago when the college was fighting an eviction notice from the U.S. Depart­ment of Housing and Urban Development for failure to make 
wherewithal to implement the bill," he said. 
The bill would give the attorney general the power to take criminal action against nursing homes which violate the law and against nursing home administrators, owners and employees who interfere with the inspection process or tamper with home records. 
Financial sanctions, ranging up to a maximum fine of $10,000 per life­threatening incident, could also be imposed by the state health commis­sioner. 
' ' ' Forum 
mortgage payments. 
Now the Centro says the college isn't doing its job and has filed suit against the institution. The Centro's board of directors hasn't decided whether to ask Marion County Cir· cuit Court for the buildings or the money back, but says it wants one or the other. 
Pola Ponce, a member ofthe Com­mittee to Rebuild Cesar Chavez, says the school's board, mostly Hispanic businessmen from Portland, has lost touch with the 2,000 Mexican­Americans who work on farms in the area around Mount Angel. 
Ms. Ponce says the buildings should be used to prepare farm workers for formal education or other jobs. 
'We don't need a college . We need those buildings. ' 
"We don't need them to sell our land and run off to Portland," she says. "We don't need a college. We need those buildings." 
The chamber of commerce, em­barrassed over the school's financial difficulties and the campus' run­down condition, has asked the U.S. Department of Education to cut the latest S70,000 grant to the school. · That request is under consideration 
in Washington. 
The group also asked U.S. Rep. Denny Smith to request a General Accounting Office audit of the in­stitution. That report is expected in 
December.  
But  in  spite  of  the  criticism,  
Colegio  President  Irma  Gonzales  
remains optimistic.  

"There may be a few people who wish to close us, but they are very few," she said recently. "We do not intend to move the campus." 
Prof. Moore 
clarifies course status 
Professor Kenneth Moore of the 
Department of Sociology and 
Anthropology would like to em­
phasize that the Mediterranian 
Middle Eastern concentration of­
fered by the College ofArts and Let­
ters is interdepartmental. 
A large number ofcourses offered 
by 12 to 14 of the faculty members 
in the College on related subjects 
constitute a pool from which stu­
dents can select four for the con­
centration. 
This is not a specialty in the 
Sociology/Anthropology depart­
ment, but an interdepartmental con­
centration which includes courses 
offered by that department. 
continuedfrom page 1 
2. 
Areas designed for presenta­tions of movies and informal reci­tals or art displays. 

3. 
Small and medium sized rooms to be used as lounge areas where people can relax and enjoy semi-privacy. 

4. 
Rooms designated as office space for certain organizations. 

5. 
Rooms designated for internal administrative offfices. 


6. Resource areas to provide in­formation to students about ac­tivities on campus. 
7. 
Coffeehouse 

8. 
Snack shop 

9. 
Bookstore 10. "21" Club 


11. Gamerooms 
Murphy and other student leaders, while formulating proposals about the space alloca­tion of the old library, still desire more student input and encourage students to become involved im­mediately. 

~---~ -~---~~ 

The Observer 
Stanford professor 
lectures on economy 
By KATIE MCDONNELL 
News Staff 
Emphasizing that the present ad­ministration is addressing the country's economic concerns better than any in the nation's recent past, Michac:l Buskin, professor of economics at Stanford University, spoke to a large audience Tuesday in the library auditorium. 
"There is a tremendous amount at stake in America's pn:scnt-day cconomics,"Boskin stated, "but the present administration is much bet­tt·r than any seen in re<:ent times towards addressing our economic concerns." 
Boskin, sponsored by the College of Business Administration, dis­cussed the economic theories that have gained him national recogni­tion. 
Hoskin's lecture, "Changing Views on tht· Changing U.S. Economy," dealt with an analyzation of the economic patterns which have 
.. shaped recent history and ideas which might help to improve them in this era he rders to as a "non­trivial recession." He is a part of a growing organization known as the New Economists, who stress that the csst·ntial a.~pects towards achieving a balanced economy arc "less government, more incentive and in­vestment." 
Hoskin's lecture, the second in the Johns-Manville American Enterprise Lecture Series, covered extensive ground in issues that face the U.S. economy. "The steady progress from the post-war era ofthe 1950's," says Boskin, "has been quite hard to fulfill." His concern is derived from the observation that the U.S. 
• • • Grant 
continuedfrom page 3 
lower the cost ot addressing economic problc:ms and offered solutions such as devoting mo.re at­tention to prevention rather than cure, encouraging community par­tidpation, spending more public service money on the young, and combining socio-economic programs. "Pt·rhaps the single best in-vestment that any country could make for economic growth is the education ofwomen," Grant stated. 
Grant, who holds an honorary de­gree from Notre Dame, has served in several government foreign aid programs and ha.~ directed U.S. Economic Aid to Ceylon and Turkey. Grant's talk was sponsored by the Third World Concerns cabinet of Notre Dame's student government. 
Performing Arts Series 
O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Sunday, •ovember 18, 1981 
General Admiasion $S.OO 
Rossini Semiramide 
Overture • Lukas Foss 
Song of Songs • 
Schumann Symphony 
No. 3 in E Flat Major, 
Opus 97 
economy has been, and is still chang­
ing, at a rapid and accelerating pace 
since this period, making it difficult 
to clearly interpret. 
In observing today's economy, Boskin sees the overall incomes of Americans doubling with each generation, and that a continuance of this could lead such a decline as the United Kingdom has recently suffered. 
''the U.S. needs a more balanced sense offiscal federalism '' 
Also discussed was the state ofun­employment, which Boskin sees as "no longer our major economic and social problem." He feels that, al­though there are 18 million more workers in the U.S. today, due to the additions of women and children of the "baby boom" era, the American outlook is still hopeful. "We've begun to mitigate the harm done to the unemployed," helping un­employment levels not to come near those that came with the depression. 
with regard to future policies aimed at these and other concerns, Buskin postulates that the most ad­vantageous type ofAmerican will be one who is a "worker/consumer/tax-paying capitalist," but also states that ex­pectations are stressed too greatly today. The government should, in­stead, be planning programs that might obtain their full effect within, possibly, the next decade. 
Boskin further expressed an over­all consensus which he feels represents most modern economists. The main goal for this program is thus a gradual reduction of the rate of inflation (with an es­timate for the real income to in­crease 2 percent per year) and a combination ofa wide credit expan­sion in the United States and a reduc­tion in government spending. 
In particular, the attention towards government is a personal concern ofBoskin's, especiallly taxa­tion, government expenditures and social security. He presently finds that the majority of governmental expenditures is spent on transfer payments for individuals and not on research, developement and invest­ment, where it is more seriously needed. 
In addition to his Stanford ap­pointment, Boskin has taught at Har­vard and the University ofCalifornia at Berkeley. He is also director ofthe National Bureau of Economic Research's Social Insurance Program. "For the best economic progress," Boskin says, "the U.S. needs a more balanced sense of fis­lal federalism." 

facility is scheduledfor completion in the spring. (Photo by Rudy Perez) 
Thursday, November 12, 1981-page 5 
in LeMans Hall last night. Construction of the 
'Health advisory' 
Committee addresses complaints 
ByRANDALLGOSKO~CZ 
News Staff 
In an attempt to address the 
growing number ofcomplaints from 
students concerning the care they 
receive at the Student Health Cen­
ter, the administration ofthis facility 
has organized a student liaison 
board called the Health Advisory 
Committee. 
The H.A.C. has three major func­
tions: to facilitate the involvement of 
students with the Student Health 
Center, to aid in the distribution of 
information concerning the facility, 
and to bring to the attention of the 
administration of the Health Center 
the concerns and constructive 
criticism voiced by students. 
The members of the H.A.C. arc from a number ofbackgrounds, each person sharing the common con­cern for the various conditions of treatment for students who periodi­cally visit the Student Health Center. 
The diversity of backgrounds is particularly conducive to the functioning of the committee, since the wide range of viewpoints allows a thorough consideration ofstudent concerns from all angles. The H.A.C. meets once a month for progress reports on various programs and to examine the latest issues brought to the attention of members by fellow students. 
In the future, the H.A.C. plans on making a campaign of information throughout the Notre Dame com­munity to alert students to the services available to them. In addi­tion to this written material, the committee members are always available as a source ofinformation. 
The concerns ofthe H.A.C. are not limited strictly to the Student Health Center, but include also the Depart­ment of Psychological Services. The board is particularly concerned with the false astigmatisms generally held about the service and will work with Dr. Michael Mond, Director of the Psych Services, in an effort to estab­lish a more positive and realistic image ofthe facility. 
The members of the committee are always available to hear the con­cerns of the Notre Dame com­munity. As mentioned at a recent meeting, however, the members of t the committee are only as effective at reflecting student et'ncern as thc contact they establish with fellow students. Students are encouraged to discuss their comments with a Health Advisory Committee mem­ber. 
'********'*~*********~ 
i( STRAIGHT FLUSH iC 1C rock'n roll and country rock iC 
~ now accepting bookings for formals ~ iC and hall parties J ff ~ iC
iC ----e 8 arcusie 
....., as seen at Mardi Gras and ~ 
"' 256-5586"'
« many hall formals iC 
********************
,. I • 
:ll tonight, stop by your student union. visit THE NAZZ 
see RMS II with Kos Eric Kurt _Del and Tommy K. also nov. 13 at noon a 
special lunchtime concerti I Lafortune Ma•n Floor 
.. starring Mike Daley, 
·~ 
r• 
Comminec members include: Paula Corrigan 204 Badin Eleanor Walker 331 Lewis Pat Neville 406 Lyom; Rose May 427 Breen-Phillips 
Karen Phelan 212 Farley Paulette Wehner 304 Farley John Pritchard 2 12 Pangborn Bryan Staffin 20 Pangborn Joe Stiglmeier 340 Howard Keith Vesclik 121 Morrissey Bruce Iannuccillo 202 Carroll Frank McLaughlin 233 Fisher Jack Burke 341 Sorin John Eckl 313St. Ed's James Elson 155 Cavanaugh Randall Goskowicz 154 Cavanaugh 
·~~~~~~~~
I happy I t Bn~thbay t
I ~Qan!! I 
·~~~~~._..--..~ 

I
Sports Brie/§ 
Thursday, November 12, 1981 -page 6 
-· 
lh /herJ!Jsert'el· and lb<' .·lssudal<'d Pr<'SS 
The SMC Turkey Trotis scheduled for the Monday before Thanksgiving (Nov. 23) at 4 p.m. The Three-mile run is open to everyone in the St. Mary's community. First, second and third place prizes will be presented in each of three categories: students, male staff/faculty and female staff/faculty. Interested runners must register by bringing the $1 entry fee to the Angela Athletic Facility before next Friday (Nov.20). For more information, contact Tim Dillon at 4182 ( SMC) -The Observer 
Mary D. andDiggerwill unveil their t981-82 basket­ball squads Sunday at the ACC in the annual intrasquad games. The last two editions of The Observer incorrectly reported that the games would be played Saturday. DiStanislao's women will play at 7 p.m., and Phelps' men will play immediately following. Student tick­ets are 50 cents and others are $1 and available at the ACC's Gate 10 box office. Proceeds go to the Neighborhood Study Help Program and the Special Olympics. -The Observer 
ND Rugby Club will hold a meeting this evening in the LaFortune Ballroom at 7:30 p.m. in order to elect next semester's council. -The Observer 
A six-mile run for Notre Dame students, staff and faculty is scheduled for Saturday morning at 10 a.m. There will be separate divisions for men and women in each of these three · categories: undergraduate, graduate and faculty-staff. Interested run­ners must stop by the NVA office (C-2 ACC), and complete the in­surance and entry forms today. The course will be entirely on the 
Notre Dame campus. -The Observer 
The interhall soccer championship will be played this evening at 7 p.m. under the lights on Cartier Field's astroturf. Zahm and Stanford advanced to this evening's finals by posting 1-0 shutouts over Morrissey and Flanner respectively Tuesday evening. 
-The Observer 
Two clinics on officiating swim meets are scheduled for the Rockne Memorial Pool. Tonight's first clinic is entitled "How to .Judge Diving." Next Thursday (Nov. 19) the subject will be "Timing, Finish and Stroke .Judging and Scoring." Interested swimming offi­cials should report to Room 218 of the Rock at 7:15 p.m. For more information, contact Coach Dennis Stark ( 4580) between 4 and 8 p.m.-The Observer 
All SkiierS going on the Winter Park, Colo. trip in .January must have their money in by Tuesday, Nov. 17. Money should be paid to Bary Tharp (1570), Sue Hull (1674) or Nancy Sheft (4996 SMC).-The Observer 
The SMC Turkey Trotis scheduled for the Monday before Thanksgiving (Nov. 23) at 4 p.m. The three-mile run is open to everyone in the Saint Mary's community. First, second and third place prizes will be presented in each ofthese three categories: stu­dents, male staff/faculty and female staff/faculty. Interested runners must register by bringing the 51 entry fee to the Angela Athletic Facility before next Friday (Nov. 20). For more information, contact Mr. Dillon at 4182 (SMC).-The Observer 
NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE  
Top 16 teams qualify tor playoffs  
W  L  T  GF  GA  Pta  
N.Y. Islanders  1 0  2  3  63  48  23  
Montreal  9  3  4  88  42  22  
Minnesota  1 0  3  2  75  38  22  
Edmonton  10  5  1  85  64  21  
Boston  9  3  3  66  48  21  
Quebec  10  8  0  82  81  20  
Buffalo  7  4  5  56  52  19  
Pittsburgh  8  7  2  62  66  18  
Philadelphia  8  5  1  54  60  17  
Vancouver  7  7  3  56  53  17  
Chicago  6  4  6  84  75  18  
W1nn1peg  7  6  2  64  73  16  
Los Angeles  7  9  0  74  85  14  
N.Y. Rangers  7  9  0  54  67  14  
Detroit  6  7  3  65  63  15  
St.Louis  6  8  2  68  68  14  
Toronto  4  9  3  71  81  11  
Hartford  2  6  7  48  58  11  
Colorado  3  9  3  42  73  9  
Calgary  2  11  4  50  84  8  
Washington  1  14  0  40  69  2  
Last Nigh's Results  
Edmonton 4. Hartford 4  
NY Rangers 7. Buffalo 3  
Pittsburgh 3, Washington 2  
N.Y. Islanders 7. Toronto 3  
Detroit 5. Chicago 5  
Minnesota 15. Winnipeg 2  
Montreal 9. Colorado 0  
Vancouver 6. Quebec 5  
Tonight's Games  
Edmonton at Boston  
Hartford at Philadelphia  
Quebec at Calgary  

St. Louis at Los Angeles 
------· 
,~.The· Observer­
Landon Turner~~ 
• 
Fund 

• 
·P.O. Box Q 


Notre Dame, Ind .• ~ 46556
..-· .. -....... .. 
J 
Classifieds  The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to Insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, e1ther in person or through the mail.  
lost: A silver watch in the first floor restroom in O'Shag Thursday Nov. 6 IfNOTICES you happened to pick it up please call [ WANTED xt820 • USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED.. lost. a large blue aeon. and french Need ride to Cleveland for Thanksgiving. SAT.. SUN. 9·7. CASPERSON. 1303 notebook, also a pa1r of dark blue ski Call John at 8450 BUCHANAN RD., NILES. gloves. Reward-call Ron at 6261 ........... HELP!!! I need a nde to the MIN­USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought, LOST: WOMENS CLASS RING ON NEAPOLIS/ST PAUL area for sold. searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. WED. NOV. 5 AROUND THE ACC. TEN­Thanksgiving Break. I will share driv1ng Tues-Sunday,12-6.1027E. Wayne(One NIS COURTS AND SOCCER FIELD. and expenses. and: can leave at your con­block south of Eddy-Jefferson intersec­SILVER. NAVY BLUE STONE.CDC INI­venience. Clare--3714 tion) TIALS ENGRAVED INSIDE. PLEASE. IF YOU'VE FOUND IT COULD YOU CALL RIDERS NEEDED FOR WHO ARE THESE PEOPLE? CYNDIE AT 277-6256 THANX. THANKSGIVING--To Chicago O'Hare. A spectacular solo performance by J. leav1ng Wed. Nov. 25 at Alexander Gilham (Soon to appear in LOST: KEYS ON GREEN AND WHITE C I2:30pm/returning Mon. Nov. 30 or late RIPLEY'S BELIEVE IT OR NOT) SHAPED RING BETWEEN C2 LOT AND Sun. Nov. 29. Call Debbie at 2736. Friday Nov. 13 at 7:15PM in Annenberg LIBRARY.APPROX. 8 KEYS. PLEASE Auditorium ( T in Snite Museum) CALL IRENE 272-4453. WANTED PENN ST. TIXS. CALL EM­METT AT 234-6298 JUgglers club meets thursdays at 7 oclock LOST -One pair of wire-rimmed by the ice rink in the ace glassses. in a black case w1th a clip-on NEED ride to St. Paul or west for turkey thing on the side. in the Campus View day. Can leave Mon. at noon. Vince THE NAZZ PROUDLY PRESENTS THE park1ng lot (or thereabouts) Saturday xt238 RETURN OF RMS. THURSDAY NIGHT. night I realize you'd love to keep these 9:»12. THE FINEST IN CAMPUS highly fashionable. recently chic specs. RIDERS needed to KANSAS CITY for JAZZ. MILES, TRANE, BIRD, MONK but I'd love to see. Call Tom at 272-8454 if Thanksgiving. Leave Tues. Nov. 24. Call LIVE AT THE NAZZ. you've got em. \/like at 3655. ................••.... The Society for Creative Anachronism is Lost: a Tl55 calculator and 2 notebooks in NEED RIDE to LOUISVILLE KY for T· com1ng to this campus. Watch tor it! I! the AB line of North Dining Hall. If found. giv1ng. call LEE at 8693 please call M1ke at 8657. WANTED: Riders to go to Penn State FOUND: GOLD NECKLACE ON SOUTH game: have car, need passengers. Call QUAD NITE OF 1116. CALL 3546 TO Kevin at 1894 or Henry at 1904.l LOST/FOUND I IDENTIFY NEED RIDE TO COLUMBUS. OHIO FOR ONE WINDSURFER. gone with the THANKSGIVING BREAK CAN LEAVE LOST: A dart< brown. Angora lady's hat WIND ANYTIME. WILL SHARE USUAL CALL between the Memorial Library and the MIKE x8691 Huddle on Monday 11102/81. $5 Reward! Please call62181 Need ride to Conn/NY area forT-Giving. Share usual. Call Bnan at 3378. LOST: One Grey Suitcoat at the .___I_F_o_R_RE_NT_I PASQUERILLA WEST-MORRISSEY Need ride to Grand Rapids (Aqu1nas Col· FORMAL Friday Evening. If you picked it lege) 11/25 to leave after I 2:30pm. Call up by mistake please call John at x3430 MALE ROOMMATE WANTED FOR Patat3384. FURNISHED APARTMENT. LOST! Pair of gold framed glasses in $110/MONTH UTILITIES PAID. 287­GOING TO PHILADELPHIA. N.Y. CITY brown case marked Rogers Optical If 5469. OR HARRISBURG FOR THANKSGIV­found call Mike at 288-3108. ....................................................... ING? I NEED A RIDE. WILL SHARE Tired of paying rent? L1ve tor tree in your USUAL CALL KATIE AT 4387 LOST: Pearl & gold ring at HC/Badin tor­own house & choose your own mal in Women's room. Highest sentimen­roommates. 3 houses to choose from, RIDE NEEDED TO ATLANTA FOR tal value. Please call Sue at 6955. private owner 7 flex1able financing. Call THANKSGIVING • CAN LEAVE MON­288-1224 DAY NIGHT CALL LISA 41-4679. Lost: A Set of 4 keys, perhaps in the vicinity of the laundry room at Badin Hall. Need to sublet room in house. Rent is HELP! Need ride to CHICAGO this Satur­If found. Please call 7695. $100 a month. Can move in imme-diate­day after 12 noon (I'd like to leave at 12:30. ly. Call Don at234-8518 after 6 p.m. Will share driv1ng. $$$ Call 4544 Lost:back pack, tan and blue. Made by anytime. WyEast. Inc. call Vince xt238 ........ NEED RIDE TO PGH AREA FOR PENN FOUNDIII GREAT JAZZ WITH STATE GAME. CAN LEAVE RMS...THURSDAY NIGHT AT THE FOR SALE THURSDAY. CALL TIM 81g5 . NAZZ. ..................... NEED A RIDE TO NORTH JERSEY LOST :Charm Holder with three charms­FRIDAY. NOV 20. RIGHT OFF ROUTE near Alumni Hall -Reward Lori at Two oil space heaters and 250-gal. tank. 80 (DENVILLE). CAN LEAVE AT 2:00 (41)5771. $150 for all three. Also. 8-room. 100· P.M. CALL MIKE AT 1181. WILL SHARE yr.old, Queen Anne house. 621 N. THE USUAL. LOST One Gold Bracelet on Saturday Lafayette, all new electrical wiring. gas before or during the Georgia Tech game. furnace, newly painted inside and out, need ride to st. louis 1 1 /25. will share Most likely lost on Green Field during the new root. under $40.000. Call234-5686 usual. call Jim 1574 after 10:30 Dillon Hall tailgaiter near the backstop across from Senior Bar. If found. Please Halt fare coupons on Republic lo Florida I needaonewayridetothe PENN STATE call Michael233--2969. 233-6793 game. Call Mike at 8657 if you can help.  NEED RIDE TO WASH DC area for Thansg1ving. Will pay$$$. Call Pat-3459 Need ride to Cleveland 11-17 to see the Stones' Have two e•tra tix. 4993. Hitting the Prom1sed Land for Thanksgiv· ing? 2 Desperate girls need a ride to North Jersey-w1!1 pay usual. Call Apnl or Corinne any time:41-5623. TICKETS Penn St. ticket wanted please call Donna at6771 Need tix for Penn State. Call Stan. 3006 or 3008 WILL PAY MEGA BUCKS FOR TICKETS TO ROLLING STONES CONCERT IN CHICAGO CONTACT MICK AT 4215 ······· Old school teacher. who predicts Faust's era will end with ND being allowed to play the pro's only. needs a PENN STATE GA. Call 283-8598 ROLLING STONES TIX Up to 5 tix for Nov 23 show in Chicago. Best offer. Call Mike at 3482 PENN STATE GA's needed. Will PAY top $. Call287-6035 and ask tor JOHN ROLLING STONES TICKETS: Monday 11/23. 4th row center. Best offer. Call Mike 287-0601 7-9 p.m. FOR SALE: PENN STATE TIX. C•ll Rich at 8763 or 8765. PENN STATE ticket or tix needed. Call John at xt947 anytime--JUSt make it soon! GOOD MONEY FOR PENN STATE TIX CALL3793 FAMILY REUNION AT PSU. NEED MEGA-TIX. CALL MEGHAN 8114. NEED 4 PENN ST TIX. CALL PERRY AT 287·6381 AFTER 6 PM. student b·ball tix tor sale both packages. and good seats (section 102) 101 1s mid· court. call Pat at 233-2969 Need 2 PENN STGA'scall: Stev~ 1816 Need 2 Penn State tickets Call Kevin. 8949 mustsell2miamigacall1574 after 10:30 PERSONALS my first day on the job .... by the way, hi lyn (make sure she sees this one, kathy)  ASSOCIATE WITH US. THE ZAHM COFFEEHOUSE IS OPEN HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES! Overseas EVERY THURSDAY FOR YOUR EXIS. deadline this Thursday, Nov. 12. Contact TENTIAL PLEASURE. OFFERING THE Mary Ann Roemer. VoL Ser. Office:FINEST IN LIVE ENTERTAINMENT, x7308.COFFEE, TEA, HOMEMADE DONUTS, FREE POPCORN AND PAT GALLAG­RMS ... THURSDAY NIGHT AT THEHER. COME DOWN AND SEE IF OUR NAZZII!PROj;ESSIONAL CONVER­SAT10NALISTS ARE PAID ENOUGH. MILES LIVES ... THURSDAY NIGHT AT r ' EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT, THE NAZZ. 9:»12..r1M BASEMENT. GENESIS IS COMING! MMMOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOI Saturday! Ylpeeeeeeel ·············· P.O.E.T S. CLUB FRIDAY 4-1 DILLONQUACK-QUACK PUB ND/SMC SOPHOMORES!! We will be P.O.E.T.S. CLUB HAPPY HOUR EVERY having a Friday the 13th" party this FRIDAY-BIG RED PUB Friday at Guiseppes. $3.00 for guys and $2.00 lor gals. Party starts at 9:00. Bring DAVIDB your student LD. YOU'RE A HONEY, A DEAR AND I LOVE YOU. JONIE HAPPY BIRTHDAY MIKE 1!!1 LOVE. PLF Need ride to and from Saginaw area at .....•••.. ·······-·· ······················•····• Thanksgiving. Will share usuaL Call FUZZ: a film you won't soon forget" Maryeva at 2915. VINTAGE WELCH" MARDI GRAS IS ALIVE AND anachronism: n. a thing or person that is WELLIIIIIIIII out of place with respect to time. EX: Moses wearing a timex dig~al watch is an WANT TO KILL A NITTANY LION! I anachromsm. need Penn State tix--call x1947 SENIORS-ASSOCIATE WITH US. HOLY Happy belated B-Day Katy Ryan better CROSS ASSOCIATES' Deadline: this late than never We Love You Julie MeMe Thursday. Nov. 12. Contact Mary Ann Chip Lauren Karen Roemer at VoL Services. x7308. HEY N.D. GUYS Wish A GOOD LOOKING. FOXY Girl A Happy 19th Call Tutor desperately needed for student at Katy R. 41-4348Southwestern MI. in Organic and Bio­Chemistry. Can meet tutor on N.D. THE MOTOWN SOUND' DILLON PUB campus for tutoring sessions. Call VSO FRIO. 10-2 GIRLS FREE!! x7308 for details. NEED RIDE to the LEHIGH VALLEY in ALL YOU DRINK TONITE IRISH COUNTRYEASTERN PA. leaving after noon on TUESDAY 11/24 PLEASE CALL MIKE at 1787 PAUL SCOFIELD as KING LEAR-­Engineering Auditorium--Monday, Nov. 16. at 7 and 10 p.m.--only $11WOODY ALLEN wont be at our HAPPY HOUR... WILL YOU? K OF C 4 pm FRIDAY Beware the 13th One comes who Moos SLEEPER starring WOODY AL­It's not safe LEN ...... SEE IT FRIDAY AND SATUR­Hide your women and stash the booze Saturday Night Special DAY atthe KOF C MEMBERS FREE 7.9. Ryan·s Revenge and 11 Utah will never be the same without him GROUP SEX II Now that we have your attention. we have SmokinJoe an announcement for all you creative, Thanks tor the note to Kathy. I owe you talented. and dedicated(?) people one. Maybe I'll write a personal to Mary or SCHOLASTIC Production Meeting -Julie( lggy) or Kay( Miss Physics) or Carrie Saturday at 1 0:00 A.M. Be there or be or Kim or Shelly...lor you. TJW square ATTENTION MR. ROLWING:JUNIORS­HAPPY BIRTHDAY FROM YOURFriday the 131h Party in Grace's party FAVORITE CHILD! HOPE YOU HAVE A room at 9:00. Wear black and bring a NICE DAY DAD. MAKE SURE THEfriend! LAWN IS MOWED WHEN I RETURN. ILOVEYA. YOUR ·as DOMER I NEED A RIDE TO PHILLY! or there­abouts. Will gladly share $ & bring Experienced typ1st will do typing. Call beverages. Call Mike 1386! 287-5162.  

---~-~~-~ 

The Observer -Sports Thursday, November 12, 1981 -page 


Yeatardey'a Sparta Tranuctlona 
BASEBALL 
American League 
CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Srgned Tony LaRussa. manager, to a two-year contract. ·and Roland Hemond. vice presrdent-general manager, to a three­year contract Named Charley Lau batting coach. 
National League 
CHICAGO CUBS-Srgned Jerry Morales. outfrel­der. to a two-year contract 
FOOTBALL 
National Football League 
WASHINGTON REDSKINS -Activated Mike Rae. quanerback. and LeCharls McDan~el. safety Warved Bob Raba. light end Placed Chris Cnssy. safety. on the rn1ured reserved list. 
HOCKEY 
National Hockey League 
CALGARY FLAMES-Traded Brad Marsh. defen­seman. to the Phrladelphra Flyers for Mel Bridgman. center 
PHILADELPHIA FLYERS -Recalled Pelle Lindbergh, goalre. from Marne of the Amerrcan Hock­ey League. 
WASHINGTON CAPITALS-Named Bryan Mur­ray head coach. 
Eeetern Conference Atlantic Dlvlalon 
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Boston  6  .857  
Philadelphia  6  1  .857  
New York  3  3  .500  2.5  
Washington  4  .200  4  
New Jersey  6  .143  5  
Central Dlvlalon  
Milwaukee  4  2  .867  
Atlanta  3  2  .600  .5  
Cleveland  3  3  .500  1  
Detroit  3  3  .500  1  
Indiana  3  3  .500  1  
Chtcago  4  5  444  1.5  
Weatern Conference  
Mldweat Dlvlalon  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
San Antonio  5  1  .833  
Utah  4  2  .667  1  
Denver  3  4  .429  2.5  
Kansas City  2  4  .333  3  
Houston  2  5  .286  3.5  
Dallas  1  7  .125  5  
Pacific Division  
Portland  7  0  1.000  
PhoeniX  4  3  .571  3  
Seattle  3  3  .500  3.5  
Los Angeles  3  4  .429  4  
Golden State  2  4  .333  4.5  
San Drego  4  .200  5  
L..l Night's Reaults  

Boston 115, Kansas Crty 100 Milwaukee 100, New Jersey 88 Phrladelphia I 17. Chicago 90 Los Angeles 95. Houston 93 Seattle 107. Dallas 79 
Tonight'e Gamea Washington at Atlanta Cleveland at Detrort Indiana at Phoenix Portland at San Drego 
No-hitters are mysterious 
It's Cy Young time again and diehard baseball fans are 
thinking pitchers. Which brings up one of the great 

mysteries of the game -the no-hit pitcher. 
Grover Cleveland Alexander never pitched a no­.&m Murray hitter. Think of that for a minute. Neither did Lefty Sports Writer Grove. Between them, they won 673 major league games. Dizzy Dean never pitched a no-hitter. But, even Best of_.&m M~ay his brother, a much lesser pitcher. did. · 
And so did Charlie Lea. For those ofyou who weren't them. With the Dodgers of the early '60s, a no-hitter 
paying attention this summer Charlie Lea was pitching might only get you a draw. 
in his 27th major league game when he got his no-hitter. Charlie Lea's motives early this year were the purest. 
and it was his first complete game in the major leagues. He was merely trying to make the staff. He was al~ 
But that's nothing! Bobo Holloman was pitching in trying to stop a losing streak The Expos had dropped his first major league game when he threw his no-hitter. four straight, including the first game ofa doubleheader It was also the only complete game Bobo ever threw. that day. 
Bobo and his bottle were back in the minor leagues Although, like Bobo Holloman, Charlie was pitching 
before that season ended. his first complete game ever in the big leagues, it was 
Len Barker of Cleveland (you all know old No. 33 not, like Bobo, his last. Charlie shut out the Giants again from Cleveland, surely?) not only threw a no-hitter this the next Sunday. year, he threw a perfect game. Only nine guys in all the Sometimes, a no-hit game serves notice to manage­history of baseball have thrown perfect games. Len ment that a pitcher on the staffwho is being overlooked Barker is a hard-throwing pitcher and, unlike Bobo Hoi· is really good. Carl Hubbel didn't become the great Carl loman, that was not his only complete game in the Hubbel, "The Meal Ticket," till he served up a no-hitter 
majors -it was his 14th. It was also his fourth shutout. on May 8, 1929. He was a second-year man then with 
And Leonard wasn't 26 years old until mid-summer. only a I0-6 rookie record. 
You read the roster ofno-hit pitchers and you want to Most people think pitchers lose no-hitters In the late scratch your head if you're a baseball fan. Not even the innings when nerves crack and the atmospheric bubble-gum card set could identify some of them. Can pressure drops about to what it is at the bottom of the you tick offDon Cardwell's lifetime stats on a moment's Atlantic, but Charlie Lea thinks the hitters are the ones notice? You'll know Addie Joss and Chief Bender, but affected most. It seems, he notes, to affect their con­how about RobertS. Rhoads? Bob Feller, OK. But who's centration as much as everybody else's in the ball park. Don Black? How about the immortal Tom Phoebu? Bill For one thing, the guy who breaks up a no-hit game ge~ McCahan ring a bell? the place in history of the guy who shot JesseJames. 
There arc a few things you notice about no-hit games. Whatever, the perfect no-hitter candidate seems to In the first place, most ofthem are close. A great pitcher be a kid who is just trying to get a place on the team, not like Grover Cleveland Alexander is not going to be in history. Just remember that Steve Busby has pitched 
throwing arm-straining Grade A stuff at the hitters with one more no-hitter than Walter Johnson. So has Bill a 10-0 lead. He'll be serving up his let-'em-hit-it­Stoneham. And the Forsch brothers, Ken and Bob, have somebody-catch-it stuff. Sandy Koufax threw four no­nore no-hitters than the Dean brothers, Me 'n' Paul. hitters but, remembering the banjo chorus of bats And, when I tell you that, you know all you need to 
behind him in those days, the miracle is, he won all of know about no-hitters. 

The Minnesota Vikings must endure the cold bome games u•l/1 be indoors -at the Hubert H. for the rest ofthis season on(y. Next year all their Humphrey .'lfetrodome. ( AP Photo) 
UNITED WAY AT ND: STUDENT DRIVE 
THANKS 
THANKS 
OBSERVER AND
ND STUDENT BODY 
JOHN McGRATH OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS 
PICK-UP CREW 
H.P.C. & HALL V.P.'s MR.KENNEY LAUGHLIN, WNDU SECTION LEADERS MARY FRANCES 
(GOOD LUCK, TOM BOGEN AND JOHN BARDSLEY, NEXT YEAR'S Co-:CHAIRMEN) 
Space for this advertisment was contributed by _The_Qbserxer_ 
--------------------------·--·-­
....~. The Observer -Sports 

Thursday, November 12, 1981 -page 8 
Rookie Valenzuela wins Cy Young 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Fernando "I think I will go on this way," he Valenzuela thanked his team and his answered. "Then you will have to manager yesterday for helping him learn Spanish." win the 1981 National League Cy Valenzuela, in the strike-Young Award. shortened season, posted a 13-7 
He left out Cy Young because he record with a 2.48 earned run didn't know who he was. average. 
Voting for the award, which the Valenzuela set a record for 21-year-old Valenzuela won in a rookies by winning eight straight tight race with Tom Seaver and games. He became the first rookie 
~teve Carlton, was so close that only pitcher since Cleveland's Herb the lack of a second-place vote for Score to lead the league in Seaver of the Cincinnati Reds strikeouts. Valenzuela had 180. 
decided it. Valenzuela was the first rookie to win the Cy Young Award. Vida Blue 
''I thank my teammates 
won the American League Cy Young Award with Oakland in 1971, his first full year, but he had lost his rookie status, based on number of and I'm thankful appearances, with the A's the pre­vious year. 
"I feel very great being in the 
to Tom Lasorda... ' ' 
major leagues and winning the Cy Fernando Valenzuela became the first rookie Tom Seaver andSteve Carlton. ( APPhoto) ­
Young Award in my first season," ever to win theCy YoungAwardyesterday, edging Valenzuela, who speaks only The voting for the National Spanish, said through an interpreter. League Cy Young Award was close "I feel a little bit surprised because among the panel of baseball writers ofthe competition, but I'm very hap-from each league. Valenzuela had.70 
• Comer
points on eight first-place votes, • •
'PJ>Y· 
"I thank my teammates and I'm eight seconds and six thirds. Seaver thankful to (Manager) Tom Lasorda, had 67 points-on the same number 
continuedfrompage 12 der to observe the artistry involved."
who gave me a chance." offirst and third place votes, but just MARTIAL ARTS ORGINIZATION -Unlike the otherThe Dodgers, to honor their left­one less for second-place. Carlton of Then the process offree-sparring begins, where the per­martial arts clubs, this club is student-run with seniorhanded pitching star from Mexico, Philadelphia had 50. Both Seaver son can make actual use ofhis skills. Bob Rickert heading the organization. Members have a
chose an Italian restaurant in Los An­and Carlton have won the award "Ifpeople are going to join the club so they can learn variety ofarts from which to choose, including Kung-Fu
geles' Chinatown. three times. Somebody asked Valenzuela if he Seaver left for Paris Tuesday night 
how to beat up on someone, they are going to become and Shotokan. disillusioned quickly," warns Helfer. "There is a lot of "The biggest difference is in the various styles we of­
knew who Cy Young was. after an unsuccessful attempt to find hard work and dedication involved, and it will take at fer people," says Rickert. "The greatest thing about all"Seeing this is my first year in the out whether he had won the award least three or four months before a beginner can the martial arts, though, is that one can take control of
major leagues, I don't know much for the fourth time. develop that soundness ofmind-body control where he body with precise accuracy. It provides an excellent
about him," Fernando answered. 
can begin sparring. means of excercise and blowing off steam, but not on"But he must be something special Seaver had a 14-2 record for the "Control of our movements is what we emphasize, each other. We discourage the emphasis ofviolence."
for baseball." Reds in the abbreviated 1981 that's why people rarely get hurt in our practices."
Young was one of baseball's season, while Valenzuela was 13-7. JUDO -Under the leadership ofClub Presidentjohn WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY -The team con­
greatest pitchers. He won 511 Engram, and the teaching directions offive-time black­cluded its season October 31 with a triumph over Hil­
games between 1890 and 1911 and Before leaving for France, Seaver belt Heavyweight National Champion Charlie Hooks lsdale College. Rosemary Desloge paced the Irish andwas elected to baseball's Hall of said that he telephoned]ack Lang of (who teaches mostly in Elkhart), the judo club meets the field with a first place run of 19:06 in the 5000Fame in 1937. the New York Daily News, secretary­every week on Sunday from 2 p.m to 4 p.m. and Wed­meter run (about 3.1 miles). Teammates Cindy Bulik ._ The outstanding pitchers in the treasurer of the Baseball Writers As­nesday from 8 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. The club leaders em­and Mary O'Connor finished in second and third place
American and the National leagues, sociation, in hopes that he might phasize the use of the feet and self-defense. As in all with respective times of 19:31 and 20:24. Also placing
as voted by a panel of members of find out the results. martial arts, though, the use of the mind is very impor­for the squad were Rose Marie Luking, Nalini Rajaman­
the Baseball Writers Association of tant. nan and Mary Kennedy. 
America, receive the Cy Young "I told him I was going away," "Most people view us as a little crazy because of all
Awards. Seaver said. "I told him it might that screaming jazz that they seem to associate with the REYNOLDS IN NATIONALS -Fifth-year sailor Phil
Valenzuela was purchased from create a problem if in fact I did win. sport, but there is really a lot of mind conditioning in­Reynolds will compete in the "National Single-Handed
Puebla of the Mexican League for But he guards that stuffpretty close­volved," says Engram. "One must always think and be Championships" in Vancouver, Canada this weekend af­
5120,000 by the Dodgers in 1979,_ ly." 
on their best guard in order to out-psych an opponent. ter placing second out of 40 competitors in the "Single­
who outbid the New York Yankees. Seaver won the Cy Young award "Basically, we learn the grace, eloquence, and speed Handed Campionships" held at Wisconsin last
He had a laugh on newsmen who of the sport; not the striking aspects. We encourage weekend. The sailing club, meanwhile will travel to" Ann<!Sked, "When will you learn to speak in 1969, 1973 and 1975, while he was with the New York Mets. people to come and watch some ofour practices in or-Arbor for this weekend's meet at Michigan University. 
English?" 
FINAL RESULTS!! 
United Way at N.D~ Participation Chart 111111111111980 
Ratio is number of students contributing S2.00 or more divided by total number of students ••• 1981 


Alllllli····:iii~IU 


Badil......

,...,.l 
Breen-Phillips!!!!!!!!II' 
Carroll !DAU:.fUU.,.....I.J,I.IIJI.If 
~v-.p..~~~~~~~ 
Dillon~~-~~~~~.. 


Lyons 
••IIIMIIIiiil Morrissey ~............................UJLAUAJ~..,..._...._...... 

PMIOOm ........r!~~~~ 
PasquerHia E. ............... 
-----------------------------------------------------_.A The Observer -Sports Thursday, November 12, 1981 page9 
McMahon throwing for records 
PROVO, Utah (AP) --Brigham Young quarterback Jim McMahon, who appears on the cover of the 19HI NCAA football record book, has come closer than any player in history to n:writing the publication. 
By season's end, the 6-foot senior --whose off-the-field spectacles give him more a bookish than an ath­letic demeanor -will have es-
Ed Juba goes the distance 
By FRAN ANASTASIO 
Sports Writer 
On Sunday, November 8, Ed Juba 
went the distance in Louisville, Ken­
tucky --26 miles, 385 yards worth 
ofdistance. 
Juba is a cross-country and track 
runner for the Irish. The sophomore 
engineering student from New York 
ran in the Metro Parks Marathon 
sponsored by the Metro Parks Track 
Club in Louisville. He finished in the 
top 10 out of I,000 participants with 
a time of 2:33.05. 
This was the nineteen-year-old's 
fifth marathon, a rarity since most 
marathoners don't start until their 
early twenties, peaking at 27 or 29 
years of age. When asked why he 
decided to run the marathon, Ed 
replied, "I had a month off between 
cross-country and track, there was 
nothing else to do." 
In the past, after 20 miles, Juba 
said that his mind would begin to . drift and he was afraid that he, a<; 
marathoners would put it, "might hit 
thc wall." 
This was not the ca~c last Sunday. 
"Thc first marathon I ran was ter­
rible, but Sunday's felt like a IOK 
(6.2 miles) road-race." 
Joe Plane, head cross-country 
coach, commented that Juba's time 
was respectable, (although Juba 
didn't share those feelings) and that 
he was proud of him. 
"Ed is young for marathoning and 
his body is still growing. He can still 
make improvement on his time, but 
he shouldn't burn himselfout." 
Three other Notre Dame stu­dents, all from Dillon Hall, also par­ticipated in the marathon. Matt Moughamian, Dan Hanigan and Tom Burke (in his first attempt) finished wi.th respective times of 2:58, 3:16 and 3:49. 
When asked what his next goal would be, .Juba said if he has time in the Spring after track, he would like to run another marathon at a better pace. 

CINEMA CITY •s a Complete servtce lor c•nema collectors Cleahng wtlh ortg•nal movte posrttrs pholos ancl relaled coiled· ables Ongtnal mohon PICture graphiCS are 
~~g~~~~"1 ~o:~~,~~: ~~~~~~~~h~e~~. 
brance ol a memorable him and because ol lhe~r llmtled number may beCome l~rle tnvestme~t pieCes Many •lems wtlh thetr dlshnc11ve artwo,.._ maKe anr act1ve wall decora!lon' lhat are sure 10 be the top•c ol diSCuSSIOn amonq rnov~e lovers 
AU mater1al1s ongmal -we deal w1th no cop1es repr1n1s or anyth•ng or a bogus nature Our latest catalogue ltSts thousands ol1tems that 1nclude posters photos tover 30 000 1n stock) lobby cards pressbooks and olher authentiC 111m memorabilia 11 you re lOOking tor a panteular •tem that 1s not tn our catalogue we w1U try to locate 11 lor you To rece•ve our latest catalogue sendS 1 00 lrelundable w!lh hrst order) to 
·l I!Ill.I ,tot:\ ( !Ill~ 
PO Box 1012. Dep! 300 Muskegon. M1ch1gan 49441 
tablished about ·50 NCAA passing 
and total offense standards. 
But McMahon, for a variety of 
reasons, faces a stiff uphill battle in 
his quest for the one goal he has set 
for himself: the Heisman Trophy. 
"I think I've got a chance, but I don't think it's a very good one," said McMahon, who placed fifth in Heis­man voting a year ago. He said the two games he missed with a hyper­
extended knee and BYU's two kisses after being ranked No. 8 would work against him. 
Moreover, no player from the publicity-poor Intermountain West ever has won the trophy, and the last quarterback to do so was Auburn's Pat Sullivan a decade ago. Since then, the Hcisman has become the sole province of fleet running backs, and with Marcus Allen of Southern· California and Georgia's Herschel Walker having sparkling seasons, 
1981 may be no different. 
But if McMahon's name never ap· 
pears on the trophy, there's a good 
chance his name will linger in the 
collegiate record books for quite 
some time. And his coach, LaVell Ed· 
wards, thinks McMahon will go on to 
carve a large nichein the National 
Football League. 
"He's a franchise. I think he could 
take someon~ to the Super Bowl, he's that good," said Edwards. He is reluctant to make comparisons, but Edwards believes McMahon is a bet· ter all-around performer than his two BYU predecessors -Marc Wil· son and Gifford Nielsen. 
"When I say he's a franchise, I 
mean that any good football team -­
whatever else they have -must 
have a good quarterback if it's going 
to succeed, and Jim's the best there 
is," Edwards said. 
McMahon's shredding of the record book began in 1980 when he became the first Division I player ever to pass for more than 4,000 yards in a season. And last Saturday against Colorado State he broke the NCAA career total offense mark of 8,444 yards set by Purdue's Mark Herrmann. 
This Saturday against unbeaten and 19th-ranked Hawaii and the following week against Utah, McMahon will take aim at Her­rmann's .career passing mark of 9,188 yards. He needs 486 yards to match it. 
BYU, 8·2, must win both games to ensure at least a tie for the sixth straight Western Athletic Con· ference title the Cougars have won or shared. 



~~----------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer-Sports Thursday, November 12, 1981 -page 10 
·~ 
..... 
. " 

The Marines. Where yoursheepskin stands out from the flock. 
College grads can become officers in the Corps. Which means they give orders. not just take them. If you're finding your bachelor's degree all too common a commodity these days. put it to work on a commission in the Corps. Talk to your campus Marine Corps ~~~~ representative. Marine recruiters w1ll be at the LaFortune Student 
Center Nov 11-13 from 9-4 p.m. 
Pielr Up Your Spirits 
Cases 
Generic 499 
Kamchatka Vodka California 
Hamms 599 1..75 Liter 
Jug Wines 
Miller Lite 799 
Kessler Blend Whiskey 1099 
Petri
Pabst 699 
1..75 Liter 
Coors 1285 
Beefeaters Gin 
750 mi.
Y2 KEGS Bud or Busch 3399 Jack Daniels 
750 mi.
Michelob 3799 call us for all your party needs! 
Clearing out the cobwebs 
Rambling thoughts at three in the morning ... 
What happened to Howard Cosell last week during the Holmes-Snipes fight? When Snipes floored the champ in the seventh round, Howard commented that he thought there was a long count. But we never heard that from him again. After that knock-down, Holmes got up, but wobbled and began to fall again. Only the ropes saved him. So how come ABC always stopped the replay just before Holmes began tO go down for the second time? 
There is something strange going on at ABC, and I think it has a lot to do with the upcoming Holmes­Cooney match, which the network will probably replay and make a fortune on. Now, they wouldn't want to go ruining the build-up for that fight by making Holmes look bad, would they? 
More and more, sports people are takingover the net­work news operations. First, Roone Arledge turned things around by dumping Howard K. Smith and Harry Reasoner and turning ABC's nightly news into "The Wide World ofNews." Now word from the Big Apple is that Van Gorden Sauter, the president of CBS Sports, is about to be named the president ofCBSNews. · Will Brent, Irv and Phyllis replace Dan Rather? 
I can see it now. "Jimmy the Greek, how do you think the AWAC vote is going to go?" 
Won't it be interesting to see AI McGuire and Billy Packer working without each other this year? McGuire is still with Dick Enberg and NBC; but Packer has packed up his belongings and moved to CBS. Both net­works will do college basketball this year (including Notre Dame games on each.) 
I have a feeling the two networks fought long and hard over who would get Packer. Too bad CBS has to start out on such a down note. 
Did you notice how quickly the UPI college football poll dropped Miami after their probation was an­nounced? Don't look for Arizona State or Southern Met­hodist in the coaches' poll, either. Those schools are on probation as well. 
When you think about it, maybe crime does pay. More and more colleges are sacrificing a year or two of probation for three or four years of winning with the quality players they cheated to get. 
College basketball coaches are slobbering over New Jersey prep star Billy Thompson. You hear the phrase "another Magic johnson" about a lot ofplayers, but few 
Holy Cross, 0-C advance to finals 
By TED HAUSSLER down Morrissey 6-0 on a lone score That was all Holy Cross needed as Sports Writer late in the second quarter. After the spirited Hog defense shut down having first and goal on the Morris­Morrissey and its last-minute of­Holy Cross and Off-Campus are sey 8-yard line, Holy Cross was fensive thrust into Holy Cross ter­
ON
Almaden 
SALE
Inglenook 
1621 South Bend Ave. 233-4603 Roseland 272-2522 

are so good that even that time-worn cliche is avoided. The kid could makeAnyone an instant contender. 
And you thought the NCAA college basketball tournament was bad? How about the Canadian Football League, where Montreal ( 3-13) made the playoffs and several teams with records as good as 7-9 were left out. Eat you heart out Bowie Kuhn. Take note, Pete Rozelle -parity can get carried away. 
Does anybody know who this week's official winner of the Indy 500 is? Every week another appeal is over­turned or upheld or something. I think the same people who are in charge of the Miss America contest run USAC. Come to think ofit, who is this week's host ofthe Miss America contest? 
Every day the trial ofthose Boston College basketball players for shaving points gets more bizarre. Last week an ex-girlfriend testified-that her life was threatened by one of the players involved. This week the FBI claims they got confessions from a couple of players. "Hey, 
· what's the big deal?'' ·the players ask. "We weren't losing on purpose, we were just making it closer than it might have been, or not as close as it should have been. What's wrong with that?" 
It wasn't noticed or reported much around here, but former Irish standout Pete Holohan walked out on the San Diego Chargers a couple of weeks ago. He said someone called and said h~ was fired, so he didn't bother to make the trip to Chicago with the team. Ifthat was me, I'd wonder why no one asked for my playbook. I'd also call some team officials to double-check. But Pete apparently didn't bother. 
In any case, the Chargers took him back, and he's still in San Diego. 
Informed sources say the Pittsburgh Pirates have played their last game in Three Rivers Stadium. Watch for them to move to Washington, or possibly to Denver. 
Ifthey go to D.C., I hope they fare better than the 1-14 Capitals, the 1-4 Bullets and the 1-9 Colts. 
ritory. 
The second game was another hard fought battle as the Off-Campus squad shut down Keenan, 7-0. Off­Campus struck first when tailback Willie Sotis scampered 41 yards around right end for an apparent touchdown. The score was nullified, however, by a clipping penalty. Then, in the. final moments of the second quarter, Off-Campus signal caller Matt Huffman, scrambling out of the pocket, hit Bill Nortz in the endzone for a 30-yard touchdown strike. Jim Kinney tacked on the ex­tra point making the score 7-0. 
Both teams played to a standstill in the second half and Keenan's hopes for a last-minute victory were dashed when 0-C linebacker Tony Aiello intercepted a Keenan pass, preserving the victory. 
Interhall football continues this Sunday at 1:00 p.m. on Cartier Field when Holy Cross takes on the number-one ranked 'Big Red Machine' of Dillon Hall. At 2:15 p.m. Off-Campus bangs heads with Grace. The winners of these two games ad· vance to next week's football final to determine this year's champs in men's football. 
• 
: _Buy : : Observer : !Classifieds :
.
•••••••••••••••• ~ 
alive and well in the Interhall foot­ball playoff picture as ~oth teams ad­vanced to semifinal games by winning last night on Cartier Field. 
In the first game of last night's twinbill, the Hogs of Holy_5=.!:?ss shut assessed a 5-yard illegal procedure penalty that pushed the Hogs back to the 13. On the following play, Hog quarterback Kevin Taylor hit fresh­man receiver Brad Mollet for what proved to be the game's only score. 
And Enjoy 
Lower Prleesf 

,~ 
Molarity 


Doonesbury 

11£ fJOAR[) AlSO5HAREPYaiR. C£WCERJJ 
AIJafT 7HC f»P.i1.VfTKJN rF ~ Gf?.IJ.a!¥.7 
5'6Tflrf, ~11¥.1FROM 5ll/HHTPfll5fiiiE 
ON 7f.ACIIEI511JT TO 6M1U41 M4RK5 
/A/HI{)( !MYAIJr'Eii5CIYAfflCT('JifiE8_ 

Simon 
WELL MR. MliRDilY . 1 I THINK lf'5 
\\0Rf!I6Lf THAT THE UF'Rf~NIA­
EXCUSE r'IE 1 ARE you 
TIVE Cf ALL ~TRE DPJ.IE $TUO£NT':.
5TtiDENT ~y ?~fSI DfNT 
I.LI:lK~ '5D GROB&Y...
DON MUKDI\Y? 

The Daily Crossword 


©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 

H{j/jMJ?, YaJR. ~MTKJJOF A I)I}07A sYSlfM FOil.~ 6fWJE5 0/0 ICTSTRikE US AS A JC.W&Y 
PflACTICAL, NOT TO 54Yf!(}{I!TA8Le, 

ACROSS 28 Red or Dead Building 29 Kind of material lettuce 
5 Lure 32 Cartright's 9 Sad cry ranch 13 In the mat· 34 "The Wreck ter of of the 14 SA, in Mary-" Belfast 36 US drama­15 School tist 
subject 37 Gender 16 Bandleader 38 Walked 18 Cruising 39 Ship parts 19 Point 41 Introducing 20 Violent for dis· 21 Slow boil cussion 22 Compel 44 Sin 23 Weight 45 007, e.g. 
abbr. 47 Carefree 25 Coloring spender worker 48 Solidify 
Wednesday's Solution 

11/12181 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••• r.......................................................................................')
! .............................• ~
: tontqht-come to ·seniOR BaR : 
e tO C€L€BRc\t€ th€ W€€k B€~0R€ : th€ W€€k B€~0R€ thankSGIVInG 
• ~RJOay niGht W€ll PR€S€nt : a niGht o~ Ice CReam 0Rmks 
• 
: Oon't miSS It !! 9:30-2;002:00 · 
l 
l 
Thursday, November 12, 1981 -page 11 
Michael Molinelli 

• 
: 
• 
• : 
..,: .;, : 

Garry Trudeau 
HOOA801JT fT tutl5 Far 71iAT aJR. PfiiJPOSAL. MIGHT Be ABIT 
TOA80l/5H {)f'I;'(J?AUZ!NG 
/ '~'s'? ~ 71-E S'TlllJtNl5
' 
.Jeb Cashin 
ARROC,fiNCE .' HOW CRUP£! WELL.1 
I 
1'llcrn K~tow,\ JIJOY... I THIN!\ ,HE'S I<INDOI' 
, Cc.JTE. 
:;; S!1lcooLO YOU TEll 
' '/OUR FR1fJJO . THAT Stff:5 BtOd· IN& MY :.Uiol.
.., 
49-out 25 Bandleader 
(pay up) Jones 50 Roue 26 Coloring 53 On land agent 55 Rearward 27 Ire 58 John, in 28 Band 
Russia instruments 59 Bandleader 29 South 61 Porter American 
62 Piscivorous 30 Maine town birds 31 Abounding 63 First name in coarse in films grass 
64 Dill 33 Weight unit 65 Hardy girl in Calcutta 66 Armored 35 Antiknock 
vehicle fluid 40 Wind DOWN direction 1 Roll 42 Warns 
2 Against 43 Biblical 3 Ensnare spy 4 Egg pro-46 Vote of 
ducer assent 5 Singer 48 French 6 Bandleader, dramatist 
with 12D 49 Avoids 
7 Golf club 50 Costa­8 Snarl 51 Bard's 9 Collect river 
10 Final 52 Cabbage 11 To­54 Achy 
(perfectly) 55 Large land 12 See6D area 14 Onewho 56 Mickey-
dons 57 Valuable 
17 Danish coin wood 22 Castro 60 Emissary: 24 Rotten abbr. 
Ca~pus 
•9 
a.m.-4: IS p.m. -Lecture, Spending Addictions, Dee Dee Ahern, Center For Cominuing Education, Sponsored by Madison Center, Sl S admission 

•9:30 
a.m.-noon -Alumnae Show, Moreau Gallery, Saim Mary's Colkge, All are welcome 

•9:30 
a.m.-noon-Drawings,Jack Olsen, Hammes Galkry, Saint Mary's College, All an: welcome 

•1 
I a.m. -Seminar, '"ESR Studies of Radiation­Produced Radical ions In Solid Matrices", Dr. Fran­con Williams, llnivcrsity of Tennessee, Radiation Lab Confrence Room 

•t-3 
p.m. -Alumnae Show, Moreau Gallery, Saim Mary's Colkgc, All an· welcome 

•1-3 
p.m. -Drawings, Jack Olsen, Hammes Gallery, Saint Mary's College, All arc welcome 

• 
3:30p.m. -Lecture, '"IRS Insights: Reflections of the Commissioner, Roscoe L. Egger, Jr., Commis­sioner IRS, Memorial Urary Auditorium, Sponsored by Accounting Department 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, '"Representations of Al­gebraic Groups," B. Parshall, 226 Computer Cen­ter and Math Building, Sponsored by Kenna Lecture Series in Mathematics 

•5:1 
S p.m. -Mass, ND/SMC Right To Life, Pasquerilla East 

•6:30 
p.m. -Meeting, AIESEC, LaFortune Little Theatre 

•7:30 
p.m. -Meeting, American Lebanese Club, International Students Lounge 

•7:30 
p.m. -9:30p.m. -Lecture, Spending Addic­tions, Dee Dee Ahern', Center For Continuing Education, SS 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, '"Mildred Pierce", Annenberg Auditorium, SI admission 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, '"Feminism and Politics: A Panel Analysis of the First National Women's Con­ference", Dr. Alice Rossi, University of Massachu­setts, Sponsored by The Departments ofSociology and Anthropology, Memorial library Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m. -Japanese Film, '"He and She", Memorial Library Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Faculty Recital, Carol Knell, mezzo­soprano, Little Theatre, Saint Mary's College. All are welcome 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, '"Heresy or Differing Tradition? The Case, Professor W.H.C. Frend, University of Glasgow, Galvin Auditorium, sponsored by Theol­ogy Department 

•8, 
9, II p.m. -Film, '"Fuzz", Engineering Auditorium, $1 admission 


7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10:00p.m. 
Television Tonight 
16 MASH 22 CBSNc:ws 28 Joker's Wild 34 The: MacNeil/lehrer Report 46 Mira~·lt: Revival Hour 16 Allin The Family 22 Family Fc:ud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 46 W. V. Grant 16 TheWahons 
22 Magnum P.l. 28 Mork and Mindy 34 Jazz: An Amerit'an Classic 46 Lester Sumrall Teal·hing 28 Best of the West 34 Crockett's Victory Garden 46 Pattern For Living 16 Ditfrent Strokes 22 Knots Landing 28 Barney Miller 34 Sneak Previews 46 Today with Lester Sumrall 16 Gimme A Break 28 Taxi 34 The Woodwright's Shop 16 Hill Street Blues 22 Jessica Novak 28 20/20 
34 Masterpiece Theater 46 Jack Van Impe 
~ ~
. . 
~ • ND/SMC Student Players Presents: • ~ 
~ ~
. . 
~ : THE ODD COUPLE : ~ 
i . . ~ 
~ : 2nd Floor LaFortune : ~ ! : November 6, 7,13,14, 1981 : ~
i . . ~ 
~ : 8 pm Admzsszon $2.00 : I 
~ ·····························~ ~
l ..........................................................................................~ 
r-~,-----------_-----=--~-~­
----~_-__ 
~s 

orts 
Four-year veteran 
Gramke quietly leads Irish, 
By DAVE DZIEDZIC 
Sports Writer 
"Why me?"Joe Gramke asks when he's told a feature article is being written about him. "Wh t at ~]ave I 
'llt!one?" Come now, Mr. Gramke. Modesty is one thing, but let's be honest here. 
The senior nose tackle has done plenty to deserve recognition during his career at Notre Dame. He has been an integral part of the 
defensive scheme since arriving on campus four years ago. He has made well over 100 tackles. Five of those tackles were made during Notre Dame's come-from-behind victory over Houston in the 1979 Cotton Bowl. He made a critical stop of quarterback Danny Davis on a late fourth down play in that game, tur­ning the ball back to the Irish. 
But that was all in the past. Right now, Gramke is impatient. He has ~en hampered by a severely sprained ankle that he sustained in the Florida State game. Since then, he's seen only limited action. 
"I am very anxious to get out on the field," says the 6-4, 245-pound native ofCincinnati, Ohio. "But right now I just have to sit it out." 
Defensive line coach Bill Meyers can understand Gramke's frustra­tion. "Joe is a team leader -the kind of guy that hates sitting out because ofan injury. He's a smart player who understands the defense and his role," he says. "He is an extremely quick lineman who possesses great ability to control an opposing cen­
ter. We are anxious to have him back in the lineup." Gramke is careful about describ-
Ming himselfas a leader. "Everyone on the defensive line knows his job," he says, "and we all co-operate to get the job done." 
Meyers suggests that Gramke leads by example. "Joe gets out on the field early and always works hard. That makes it easy for others to follow his lead," he says. 
That's just the way Gramke plans it, too. "I'm not a real rah-rah type of
• guy," he says. "I go out on the field and do every­
thing the best I can. I'm satisfied by 
knowing I try my hardest." 
So far this season, Gramke has been alternating at nose tackle with junior Bob Clasby. "The system has worked well," says Meyers. "It enables us to keep fresh players on the field at all times. Also, both joe and Bob have had injury problems throughout the season. Because they alternate at the position, we are confident that either player can do the job. All of the upperclassmen have responded well to the system." 
Gramke agrees that the alternat­ing system has been a help. "I think it is most effective on hot days when linemen can lose more that ten pounds during one game. It's also nice to get a spell during an ex­tended drive by an opponent." 
Besides playing under a new head coach this season, Gramke also has a new defensive line coach. But he has had little difficulty adjusting to Ger­ry Faust and Meyers. "We are basi­cally running the same defense we ran for my first three years here," he says. "The defense is the same technically, but is based on a dif­ferent defensive philosophy. 
"Coach Meyers is a real good coach. He takes genuine interest in his players, and helps them as much as possible." 
As a nose tackle, Gramke's primary function is to protect the linebackers, especially keeping the offens t ive center away from Notre Dame's second line ofdefense. 
"If! can contain the center on run­ning plays, that frees up the linebackers to make the play either inside or outside," he explains. "When the flow of the play moves toward the outside, I also take out whatever blockers move in from the backside." 
What are Gramke's plans for the future? "Good question," he responds. "I was hoping to get a chance to play pro football. But with my ankle injury, I might not get 
drafted. If not, I'll either start my 
Momentum turning as Irish go west 
Now that we think our football team has matured both 
offensively and defensively, we enter a critical stage of the 
season with our final rhree games all on the road. It will be 
difficult to leave Notre Dame Stadium, where the team has 
come together these last three weeks. 
But even more so, it is sad to leave Notre Dame Stadium 
because we won't be able to play again in front ofour home 
fans and student body, who have been behind us all season. 
The players and coaches will miss their support. 
That's why it was nice that we were able to give them and our seniors a victory in the final home game last Saturday against Georgia Tech. Before the game, we had all 33 senior members of the team -the trainers, managers, and players -introduced individually as they ran out ofthe tunnel. This is something we started this season and hope to continue in the future. The response from the crowd was very pleasing, 
and I know those seniors appreciated their cheers. 
We also were glad that all the seniors got a chance to par­ticipate in the game. That made it an even more special day for them, one they will not soon forget. It was nice to see the joys oftheir accomplishments. Ron Mishler, a Metamora, Ill., senior who has snapped on our placekicks and been a reserve tight end this season, caught his first pass at Notre Dame in the fourth quarter, and moments later, Tim Tripp, a senior from Dayton, Ohio, grabbed his first touchdown pass at Notre Dame. 
Tim Koegel, a senior quarterback from Cicinnati who started four of our first five games, also bowed out in fine fashion, throwing two touchdown passes, including the one to-Tripp. Afterward, Koegel related to me that he and Tripp had talked all week about connecting on a touchdown pass. That they did made it all the more special. 
For that matter, all our seniors enjoyed fine afternoons. Offensively, tackle Phil Pozderac played well, throwing a key career in sales or go to MBA school. But if I get a shot at pro ball, I'll definitely go for it." 
So Joe Gramke's future is a little uncertain. He is making progress toward recovering from his ankle problems, but he's still not sure when he'll be back in action. The Notre Dame coaches, play:ers, and fans hope to see him back soon. In the meantime, he waits, and waits, and... 
Correction 
The Observer incorrectly reported that the charity intra­squad games for the men's and women's basketball teams would be held Saturday night. In fact the games, which benefit a number of local charities, will be played Sunday night at 7 p.m. on the main floor ofthe ACC. Admission is $1 for adults and 50 cents for 
students.  See  Sports  Briefs  for  
more  details.  The  Observer  
regrets the error.  

Thursday, November.12, 1981-page 12 

joeGramke is eager to get back into action after being injured in the Irish loss to Florida State. Stops like this have marked his career from the start. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
Martial artists provide peace 
Flying feet smashing into one's face and heads smash­ing bricks into two are just some of the "barbaric" images that are assumed by many to be associated with karate, judo, kung-fu and tae-kwon-do. 
First ofall, understand that the more than I 00 people involved in the martial arts program at Notre Dame are basically people ofpeace. 
"You would never see a master or competitor of something like tae-kwon-do deliberately start or be in a fight just to show off," says Tae-Kwon-Do Club Presi­dent Ray Helfer. "If someone was to start pushing someone involved in our program in a barroom, our guy would probably just leave the barroom calmly. He realizes that he doesn't have anything to prove to anybody in terms ofbeing a 'Mr. Tough Guy.' A lot ofthe program is the fine control ofthe mind." 
The programs in martial arts that will be offered in 
the spring semester to students of all ability levels are 
very much concerned with the "art" ofthese fields. 

TAE-KWON-DO-The dub's 40 members-practice­from 6 p.m to 8 p.m. at the ACC every Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday during the school ye;tr. One ofthe instructors is black-belt owner Tim Kunigonis. Tht.· em­phasis in this division of 'the martial arts is placed on striking, punches, kicks and chops. Fear not, however, since the first few months place a great emphasis on control. Techniques such as self-defense methods are practiced repeatedly until they are highly developed. 
See CORNER, page 8 

despite a strong Georgia Tech rush. 
The reason Blairwas effective was the work ofour interior line oftackles Pozderac and Tom Thayer, guards Mike Shiner and Randy Ellis and center Mark Fischer. Fullback John Sweeney, of Deerfield, Ill., also had another strong game. He is a very heady player. 
The next three weeks, starting with this Saturday's game against Air Force in Colorado, are very important because we must continue to improve as we have these last four weeks. 
Coach Ken Hatfield is turning around the Air Force program and we're sure the Falcons will be ready for us. They have won their last two games, and they have a week offto prepare and heal their injured players. Any time a team has a bye before playing your team, it had better concern you. 
Offensively, the Falcons have an exciting offense with their running and passing mixture. The problem they have encountered is keeping people healthy. But their replace­ments have responded well. Sophomore Marty Louthan is doing a good job at quarterback and sophomore fullback John Kershner is averaging 5.5 yards per carry. 
The Falcons are a very sound and experienced defensive 
team, particularly in the secondary. They have an excellent 
safety in senior Johnny Jackson, who leads the team in 
tackles with 90 and pases broken up with six, and senior 
David Carraway, who has three interceptions. 
One thing that concerns you about playing the Falcons but there is the altitude. The ball will travel farther. That's why the kicking game will be important, and Air Force has excellent personnel in punter Jeff Kubiak and placekicker Sean Pavlich. 
This will be our first road game in six weeks, and we will have to be prepared for everything. 
linebacker Bob Crable, cornerback john . Krimm and defensive end Kevin Griffith also stood out. It was pleasing to see Crable and Krimm get their interceptions, and Griffith, who could have another year because of past injuries, tied Crable for most tackles. 
Georgia Tech had an excellent game plan. They bottled up our running game well, and the delay and drag pass they ran were very effective all afternoon. It took us a while to get adjusted. 
This was my first opportunity to meet Bill Curry, and he's an excellent man and coach. The college profession should be proud to have him as a member. His team is a young one, but we're sure it will develop into a contender in time. 
But we are getting to the point that ifyou take something away, you give us something else. We are starting to come up with the big plays that can happen at any time and make the game more exciting. Field position, which hurt us earlier this season, isn't as great a concern when you have the cpap­bilty for the big play. 
One reason for our success with big plays is the perfor­mance of our starting quarterback Blair Kiel. Blair, from Columbus, Ind., really has matured these last four weeks as a quarterback and passer. He made two great plays in the touchdown passes tojoe Howard. On the 96-yarder, the lon­gest pass play in Notre Dame history, Blair put the ball on the money. Then on the 58-yarder, he again was accurate 
