• • • Molinelli -page 13 

\'01, XVI, NO..:;~ an 1ndependem srudent 
In speech last night 
cGovern downs Radical Right 
By MARK ROLFES McGovcrn was defeated for SluffNe{Jorler rcclection in 1980 for the scnatorial scat which he had held f(>r the past 
George Mc<;overn, former 18 years. senator from South Dakota, spoke One of the factors in that defeat last night in the Library Auditorium was the "Targct McGovern" cam­
on "Const:rvatism in America," paign waged against him by the Na-. denouncing the Radical Right as tiona! Conservative Political Action distorting American political ideals. Committee ( NCPAC), a right-wing 
The main point of McGovern's activist group. Hc was angry at the speech was that the right-wing radi­lack of substance of their attacks on cal groups, which have gained a him. great dell of political intlucncc in "Emotional attacks can be so dis­recent years, have too much in­torted and incendiary that you can't tluenn· in American politics. discuss the real issues," he said. 
Reagan orders end to foreign policy feud 
WASIIIN<;TON (AP)-President Reagan. trying to stem bickering within his oftlcial family, called Alexander M, HaigJr. and Richard V. Alkn onto the carpet ycstt:nlay and told them "internal criticisms" have got to stop. 

"The president told them he wantt"d to ensure that the mattt"rs of the past few days arc dosed," chief Whitt· Ilouse spokesman David Ger­
gen said after the ont"-hour meeting. 
"lit-also discussed with them ways to make the foreign policy ap­paratus oftht· government work bet­ter and ways to stop any internal criticisms," Gergen said. 
Secretary ofState Haig touched oft' tht' latest episode hy charging that a p t residential aide -whom he did not name -was running a "guerrilla campaign" to discredit him. 
Since Haig and Allen, the national security director, have disagreed on foreign policy strategy, Allen was <:onsidercd the culprit. 

And although none of the prin­cipals has puhlidy named names, Reagan's decision to summon Haig and Allt-n for a face-to-face meeting Thursday fueled suspicions that llaig's "guerrilla" remark was aimed at Allen, who has denied working against Haig. 
But Gt:rgl·n said Reagan did not mean to imply hy summoning Allen that he considers Allen the target of Haig's complaints. 
"No such pcrson has been iden­tified," Gergen saiu. 
Asked if Reagan had given instruc­tions to anyone else on the staff to curh internal crtllctsm, Gergen replied, "Not to my knowledge." 
Allen held an unannounced meeting with Reagan Wt:dncsdasy to try to put to rest reports of his feuding with Haig. Allen said he told the president he would not do any­thing to hurt him, having worked hard for four years for Reagan's elec­tion. 
Through Gergen, the president sought to end speculation that Haig, Allen, or both, would be dismissed. Besides their differences over policy issues, Haig and Allen were privately criticized within the administration and on Capitol Hill for their tactics in handling Reagan's $8.5 billion arms sale to Saudi Arabia. The pur­
chase  narrowly  escaped  an  em­ 
barrassing Congressional veto.  
Gergen  said  Reagan  had  

"re-affirmed his strong confidence" in Haig and Allen, and also other members of his foreign policy team. All othcr aidcs were excluded from the meeting. 
By FRED ROTHENBERG 
Associated Press Writer 

NEW YORK (AP)-You know how it is on Sunday. You're waiting for pro football to come on, but the pre­game network warmups can take the air right out of the hall. 
For more than two decades, the early afternoon Sun­day network choices have been identical: somber inter­viewers talking 
~~us;;lemn a~:~ FRIDAY£c~Qr;ttr'{~i'5:;:,';>;i 
serious subject. 

., ··.. l? FOcus
This Sunday is 

the hcginning of ii-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
the 35th year for . NBC's "Meet the Press" and the 26th season for CBS' "Face tht· Nation." But next Sunday is the day ABC replaces its "Issues and Answers" with the first broadcast of "This Wed. With David Brinkley." It may be the sign of things to come, 
The rest ofthe week is in tlux, too. There arc plenty of cosmeti<: changes. Call it the new face of morning television. 
McGovern was one of many scnators targctcd for defeat by right­wing groups across the nation,, "It trouhlcs me to sec that many senators went down to defeat and were rcplaccd by men of obviously less talent and capability for public service," McGovern stated. 

"The Moral Majority is trying to set themselves up as a self righteous group trying to judge complex issues with very simplistic answers. I'm disturhcd at the emergence of politicized TV evangelists like (Jerry) Falwell. Being tht: son of an evangelist minister, I can respect their tradition. but my father never tried to tell me that God is a right wing reactionary," McGovern ex­plained. 
The criterion by which these groups determine who is moral is ridiculous as well, according to McGovern. "These right wing groups arc distorting the family image," he said. "It disturbs me that someone tries to set himself up as an authority on how we should love our family. I was officially targeted by the Moral Majority as the Anti­Family Senator. They cvet\ gave my opponent a plaque for being an out­standing family man." McGovern, who has four children by his wife of 39 years, cited this as one example 
of how the extremists arc distorted in their views. "If you supported ERA, you were anti-family. If you didn't support the overturning of 
See McGOVERN, page 6 

Nuclear-armed 
George M.cGovern,Jormer senatorfrom South Dakota, spoke last night in the Library' Auditorium. See related story at left. (photo by Carrie Koplin) 


Soviet sub enrages Swedes 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden (AP) -thc vcsselunil today. Nudcar-tipped torpedoes probably Foreign Minister Ola Ullstcn told arc aboard the Soviet submarine that the Kremlin Swcden regarded the went aground while prowling in a incident with the "utmost gravity" restricted zone ncar a major and would tolerate no repetition of Swedish naval base 10 days ago, it, especially sincc the Soviets outraged Swedish officials said yes­ignored his demand for more in­terday. formation on the sub's armaments, 
They said the Soviets can have refused an inspection ofthe torpedo their :sub back but that storm-tossed hold and claimed the sub was armed seas likely will delay departure of only with "the necessary weapons 
and ammunition." 
Prime Minister Thorbjorn Falldin

AM news, entertainment said at a news conference that the incident was "the most blatant viola­
tion in Sweden in the postwar era,"

Programs change face of TV 
and that the sub would be escorted 

to a Soviet flotilla outside Sweden's It began in 197S with the entrance of ABC's "Good waters "as soon as the weather per­Morning America." At that timc, eight million viewers mits." were tuning in to the old standbys, "Today" on NBC and But heavy weather with 45 mph the morning news on CBS. wind gusts prevented the dcparturc Now I S million viewers watch the three network 
and Swedish officers said it would be news-and-information programs. Mike Dann, former delayed at least until daytime today. president of CBS Entertainment and now a network Eleven Soviet ships, including two consultant, predicts the audience will rise w 20 million destroyers, two frigates and two in the next few years. missile-armed corvcttcs, hovered in ABC was apparently inspircd to crcate the Brinkley the area. show by the success ofCBS with Charles Kuralt and his Falldin, who opposes even peace­9-10:30 Sunday morning news broadcast. ful usc of nuclear energy, scoffed at Although NBC says it will continue "Meet the Press" Soviet references to the Baltic as a for now, the network's early morning plans elsewhere "sea ofp~:acc," and said Swedish ex­
arc the most ambitious among the networks: NBC is perts recorded radiation from the considering a seven-day wcck for "Today." outside of the sub's hull for three On Saturday, the contemplated restructuring would nights and concluded that the sub 
include two hours of "Today," two hours ofsports and carried uranium-238. 
just one hour ofcartoons. Thc Soviet Union as well as the Kuralt's Sunday show continues to draw larger Nordic countries have urged that audiences than its weekday relation, "Morning." thc Baltic Sea be free of nuclear 
Indeed, "Morning" has lost some viewers in the six arms. Sweden's commander-in-chief, Gen. Lennart Ljung, told reporters
See FOCUS, page 6 
there was as much as 22 pounds of 
U-238 aboard and that it could have been used as a protective shield around U-23S, a main ingredient in nuclear arms. But he said the presence of U-235 could not be proved because the Soviets would not allow an inspection of the hold. 
Nils Gylden, a nuclear arms ex­pert on the Swedish defense staff, said it appeared the Soviet sub was carrying nuclear-tipped torpcdos, a secret weapon, but he could not un­derstand why. 
Gyldcn said there probably were other types of uranium aboard the sub than the U-238 mentioned by Falldin. He said there probably was no risk of accidental explosion aboard the storm-rocked sub. 
The defense staff expert said the nuclear arms aboard the Whisky class sub, built in the mid-SOs but modificd, most likely wcre to be uscd for fighting largc surface ves­sels likc carriers. 
Thc Soviets were previously known to have at least six nudcar missile-armcd Golf class subs in thc Baltic, along with 60 torpcdo­cquippcd subs of thc Whisky and othcr classcs but thcre had bcen no cvidcncc to datc thcy also might be carrying nuclear arms. 
The submarine:, skippered by Lt. Cmdr. Pyotr Gushin and carrying a crew of about S6, ran aground on rocks in a restricted zone near the Karlskrona Naval Base 300 miles south ofStockholm on Oct. 27 while thc Swedish navy was conducting anti-submarine exercises. l_Gushin blamed navigational error. Sweden rejected the explanation. 

~.&.1~oT'_;,_ _ ~~:. -:--..._._--..:;:-,.,.;:..~..;;;..,;:;:.;o.,_;,o--;;;;;;;;:;:..:;_;;;;;___.,.,a.iii.U:;;:;;iMa:·-.;..i:~.:;a,jj-;:;;::::£iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-iiiiiiiii:iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii:..;;..:;:o~~l5iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 


News Briefs 
lh /be rJIJ.~en•er and /he A.ssociated Press 

Eighteen more people have been arrested by au­thorities investigating the assassinaton ofPresident Anwar Sadat Oct. 6, the daily newspaperAI-Akhbar reported yesterday. "Most of the leadership of the terrorists, with the exception ofa few, have fallen into the hands ofthe police," said the newspaper, adding the dragnet was still going on. Al-Moussawar magazine said the total arrested so 
far was 750, and that some had confessed they planned to set fire to two Cairo mosques as part ofan alleged broader plot to incite chaos and overthrow the government. Al-Akhbar reported printing presses found in two suburbs were used to print materials designed to inflame opinion against the government. It said the presses also printed leaflets distributed during the bloody Moslem-Christian riots in a Cairo slum in June andJuly. -AP 


Buryinga half-centuryofdiscord, Prime Minister 
Pierre Elliott Trudeau and the premiers of nine Canadian provinces reached agreement yesterday on cutting their country's last colonial tie to ·Britain and establishing a truly Canadian constitution. Only Rene Levesque, separatist premier of French-speaking Quebec province, rejected the historic accord, denouncing Trudaau's con­stitutional reform plan as an attack on provincial J.utonomy in the decentralized Canadian federation. As always, he declared, "Quebec is alone ... Never will we surrender on this." The constitutional split threatens to fuel separatist sentiment in Quebec, where voters in a 
referendum last year rejected a Levesque proposal to take the first step toward seceding from English-speaking Canada. The Ottawa agreement, which came on the fourth day of a federal-provincial constitutional conference, now requires approval by the Canadian and British parliaments. -AP 
Democrat}amesJ. Florio, on the short end of 
the count in New Jersey's hairline gubernatorial race, charged Thursday that Republican opponents tried to intimidate voters at the polls. The final outcome of the election, meanwhile, was still up in the air. Republican Thomas H. Kean held a tentative advantage over Florio of 1,143,171 to 1,141,445, the News Election Service reported Thursday evening. The new margin of 1,726 votes in­creased Kean's lead from results announced earlier in the day by 591 votes as county election officials checked their figures. "Undoubtedly, a recount will be requested in some degree," Florio said Thursday. Kean, -46, a millionaire businessman, remained in seclusion at his home in Livingston·. Secretary of State Donald Lan, the state's chief election officer who also served as Florio's deputy campaign chairman, said he did not believe the outcome would be determined "until late next week or possibly the following week." 
-AP 

Catholic leaders met yesterday and called 
for a constitutional amendment permitting Congress and the states to restrict a woman's right to end a pregnancy. "Each day that per­missive abortion on demand continues to reflect a situation of law­lessness in our country ... the moral fiber of the nation is further unravelled," said Terence Cardinal Cooke of New York. Cooke and ArchbishopJohn R. Roach of Minneapolis, president of the National Conference of Bishops and the U.S. Catholic Conference, threw the weight ofthe church behind one ofa halfdozen proposals to reverse the 1973 Supreme Court decision legalizing abortion. The two pr­elates testified on behalfofa proposed constitutional amendment by Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, that would allow Congress to restrict abor­tions and let state legislatures enact even tougher anti-abortion laws. Although senior church officials came before Congress in 1974 and 
1976 to oppose legalized abortions, the U.S. Roman Catholic heirarchy previously has refused to endorse any specific legislative proposal. -AP 
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher meets 
with Irish Prime Minister Garret FitzGerald here today in a new bid for a political settlement to end 12 years of bloodshed in Northern Ireland. The meeting at 10 Downing Street, official residence of British prime ministers, takes place amid a bombing campaign in London by the Irish Republican Army and simmering violence in the troubled British province. British officials said both leaders will seek to improve joint security against the IRA and its splinter groups, which are fighting: to reunite Northern Ireland with the Irish republic to the south. FitzGerald, who supports some form ofpoliti­cal change but not the IRA, has built up expectations that a major London-Dublin initiative is possible that would give Ireland in­fluence in Northern Ireland's affairs. The Irish Times of Dublin, Ireland's most authoritative daily, said in an editorial last week: "the FitzGerald-Thatcher meeting could be crucial in restarting the long­missing political process in Northern Ireland and in much wider ways also."-AP 
Cloudy this morning but gradual clearing in the afternoon. High in the upper 40s. Clear and cold tonight Lows around 30. Mostly sunny tomorrow, high around 50. -AP 
Friday, November 6, 1981 -page 
Death March to die? 
Tomorrow is the last Notre Dame home football game ofthe year. That factalone is enough to bring tears to many seniors' eyes. But while some sit by and become sentimental, others, with perhaps a bit more worldly outlook on life, have been looking ahead rather 
eagerly for another activity traditional for this upcom­
ing weekend: Senior Death March. 
At this point, however, a rude awakening appears to 

be in store for these would be "marchers." If politics makes strange bedfdlovi;s, then the prospect of the death march must go even further beause one of the most improbable alliances we've seen in recent years has coalesced in opposition to the infamous senior tradition. 
Unlikely as it may seem, the University Administra­tion, the City ofSouth Bend, the leadership ofthe Notre Dame Senior Class, and residents of the Northeast Neighborhood have banded together to try and pull of one ofthe biggest social peace experiments since Camp David. The idea, apparently originated by Senior Class President Tom Lupo, has these four groups -normally 
pointingfingers at each other -gathering together this afternoon for a block party to be held at the ACC from 3-6p.m. 
The first reaction of many Seniors has been skepticism and a "we'll march anyway" alluring as that tradition-bound lowest ofthe low march to the death parade up Notre Dame Avenue, but it does have some possibilities. 
Beer, that indispensible ingredient of the death march, will be served at the block party (and even by 30 familiar bartending faces from Senior Bar), as well as soft drinks and a variety of food including brats, steak sandwiches, and hot dogs. 
Why, Fr. Hesburgh, South Bend Mayor Roger Parent 
and the ever-popular Chiefof Police will all be present 
-but I wouldn't let that ruin the party; the former is 
always a pleasure to be around, and the latter two will 
still have the shakes from this week's election. 
Besides providing an alternative to the death march, 
this block party concept, ifsuccessful, should go a long 
way toward mending rela­
tions between students and 
the residents of the North-
attitude, but it looks like things might not be that easy for those hard core cases in­tent upon keeping the tradi­tion of debauchery and bruised neighborhood rela­tions intact. It seems that a rather important obstacle has been raised by the block party planners -most of the bars in the five points area have alledgedly agreed to close between the hours of6 and 8 p.m. tonight. 
Since it must answer to the Administration, Senior cast ncigborhood.. 
Although we wish the or­ganizers the best of luck on today's endeavour, we remain concerned about the sources of funding for the event. Money should be put up by each of the parties to the event -not just the Senior Class or The Alumni-
Club, as has been rumoured. Such a burden on the Club or the Class would be unfair -and ironically, a position that contradicts the Administration's recent 

Bar has in the past been forced to close for the dura­tion of the annual aloholic escapade, and therefore will have no bearing on the "experimental" results today. However, it's going to take some very imaginative 
minds to devise a way of conducting the death march without the essential "fueling" depots known more commonly as Corby's, The Commons, Irish Country, Nickies, Bridget's and Lee's. According to the or­ganizers of the block party, the first three of the aforementioned tipping establishments have already agreed to shut their doors tonight during the proscribed dark hours. The others are questionable. 
Even the most faithful debauchers have to be a little concerned about the prospect of marching past the shuttered doors oftheir usual haunts. There are several options: 1) March along with portable alcohol sources -and face being arrested for public drunkenness by a beefed-up contingent of South Bend Police; 2) Move the march back until after the 6-8 p.m. period -and stumble along the broken sidewalks of the Northeast Neighborhood; or 3) Give the block party a try. 
The block party idea at first glance docs not sound as 
_The_Qhs.erxer_ 
Design Editor....... . . .. \laura Murphy Design Assistants ... . . ........... Jim Keyes Layout Stuff... ... Elizabeth Blakey 
BillZink Typesetter... . ..... Bruce Oakley News Editor..... ... Tim Vercdlotti 
Copy Editors ............................ Rich Adam TimNedy 
Features Layout. ............ Gregory Swiercz 
Sports Copy Editor. ............ Chris Needles T)'fllst ............ . ...... Dodee Carney Svstems Control... . ....... Bruce Oakley ND Dav Editor. . ....... Paul .\lcGinn Ad Design... . ....... Fran & Mary Pbotogmpber.... . .......... Carrie Koplin Guest Appearances.............. Darby & Griff 
Student Union types Many from Darby'' Plaee Friends of the Familv Rookie~. Veterans and Treanor's 
_The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays. except during exam and vacation periods. The · Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col­lege. Subscnptions may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntmg The Observer. P.O Box 0. Notre Dame. lndlana46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
argument that the Senior Bar 
should be a more efficient profit-maker. If the block party is not successful -as is the case with many such large events held for the first time -the students could be left holding the bag. 
Observer notes.______, 
The Observer needs day editors Tuesday and Thursday afternoons in its Saint Mary's office. In­tercseted Saint Mary's students should contact SMC Executive Editor Mary Agnes Carey at 41­5127 or SMC News Editor Cathy Domanico at 277­2244 for more information. 
The Observer is always looking for new reporters. Ifyou like to write and can devote a few hours each week to reporting, visit our office on Lafortune's third floor. Talk to one of our news editors. They'll be happy to help you get started. 
Positions are also available on our night produc­tion staff. Experience is not necessary, we will train applicants. Promotion to paid positions depends on quality ofwork. 

----------------------· The 0 bserver Friday, November 6, 1981 -page 3 

-overnment plans summit with Solidarity union 
(ii>ANSK, Poland ( AP) -The: Solidarity union said Thursday that tht· Polish government is "rl·ady co make: concessions" to the independ­ent union after an unprecedented church-state-union summit aimed at solving Poland's economic crisis. 
A union statement issued in Gdansk said the government is set "to undertake talks ahout all the prohlc:ms in Poland" and is "ready to make concessions." It did not elaborate. 
Solidarity national chairman Lc:ch Walcsa. Roman Catholic Archbishop jozcf Glcmp and Gen. Wojcic:ch jaruzdski-Poland's premier, Com­munist Party first secretary and dcfenst: minister -met for more than two hours Wednesday at a govcrnmt:IH guest house in Warsaw. 
\1eanwhik. tht·rt· were these 
other dl·vdopmcnts: 
-Rural Solidarity hegan a sit-in Thursday at the Communist youth hetdquartns at Skdlce, ea:jt of War­~aw. to pro~t·.,t ~horragcs. 
-1';0,000 unionists remained on ~trikl' in /.idona (iora province. (irzcgorz Palka. who head~ the labor fnkration·~ economic section, 
told reporters the union will be prepared to sit down with govern­ment negotiators hy the end of next week. 
The Solidarity statement stressed that the union-government talks should be marked by mutual com­mitment to avoid ultimatums, "to t1nd the: compromise: which would he: satisfacwry for cvcryhody," and to proccc::d from "clear and precise starting positions." 
The summit "may be ofwatc::rshc:d significance:: for the prompt es­tablishment ofa platform of national consensus," the: Warsaw newspaper Zycie Warsaury said Thursday. 
The official news agency PAP said the three discussed "the possibilities ofcreating a front of national under­standing, a permanent platform of dialogue and consultation of politi­cal and social forces." 
Walesa, who arrived in Gdansk looking tired. did not speak to repor­ters, hut a spokesman said Walesa felt the Polish people "not only can but have to reach an agreement ... in the face of the economic and social dangers (confronting) all people in Poland." 

Tu•o arki~ts put the finishing touches on the decorations for the aunual Beaux Arts Ball, 
Due in June ~@f@: Come See : ®,.. ii'l~@5. 
Royal couple expects heir ~@I Humph:~dsogart ...~ : 
(.()N()():"oJ(AP)· Britonsrl·joiced dazzll'donlookersWednesdayatthe thrilled to hits. We'll all raise our 
@2 Kathetine Hepbutn ~ 
yesterd:~y over news that Prmn:ss state: opening ofParliament. Arriving glasses to them." @5.~
~ Diana is expectin~ a bahy next June h>r her first state occasion in ahorse-t;\ in The Aftican Queen -a prmce or prmccss who wtll he drawn carriage. she looked radtant Diana has frequemly spoken of 
\::.J. 
her love for children. \Vhen the

Sl'cond in line to the British throne. in a white satin V-neck gown ami 
Sting a blanket and a ftiend to
prince proposed, she was a part-time

The announn:ment hy Buckin-diamond tiara. 
teacher at the Little England kinder­

Stepan Centet monday, Nov.9 at 8:00
gham Pala1.:e came little more than The palace said Diana plans to ful­garten in London's Pimlico districtthree months after the .20-year-old 
fill her engagements for now, includ­and regularly goes back to see her
daughta of an carl married Prince 
ing a tour next week of Duchy of former wards.
Charles in a spectacle watched hy Cornwall farmland the prince owns
millions around the world. Shortly after the palace announce­
in southwest EPgland. N.D. PARTY HEADQUARTERS
Queen Elizabeth II and members ment, more than 1,000 office 
of hoth families were:: delighted, said At the Prince of Wales pub in Tet­workers flocked to the Guildhall in thl· palace:. "The queen was per­bury village, n("ar the couple's the City of. London financial district sonally Informed of the news by the Gloucestershire mansion, manager to cheer the couple arriving for the 
prince and princess some days ago," Susan Dyer said, "The regulars are luncheon in their honor. said the palace, and Diana was "in excellent health." 
Father-to-be Prince Charles, responding to a luncheon toast to 
University receives funds 
~tbe-royal ~upk, spoke of. hta "~lllt · wife" and said he looked forward to _~ 
LarJ •
renovattons

.~:~~~;=.~= 29 ~~d-~:~-~~.. ~, -_ .L·yo'!.~f!:ne .. · Bookin'aiCers 'William l:liU Ltd: · ·· ·· · ' ..•. r~~ts.Qn.~hether_)t WiJl;.b.e:a.OO)i ··.ft~, y~M.-. ;'' 
mertime ·sc:> tftat-~udeots' ·may· u~ 

: or git'L-·Odds-w~.tt nurowly ift favO('-n,i.Q~'Stt;Jr .. . · · •·· ·:· ..· •. · ,·_ · 
• thece'nter without disturbance.

ofa male heir with a 50-1 chance of The Lafortune Student Center,
W.ins. 
Renovation ofthe first floor ofthe which also contains must ofthe stu­

. .'Ibe chj.ld, wbethcr girl or bQy, l:.aF~ne. Student ,Qn~.-. is dent acetvitles-offices, is in the ·cen­
·~j'j(~ n~;t in'line of su~c~ssion to 
scheduled co begin over Christmas ter of campus. Off-campus students 32-year·old Prince Gharles. Its title, 
break. often get together at the LaFortune:: 
if oamed for example John or Mary, 
Aecor'!in~. to Don. ~_!lr~~y, .fresi­Center between· classes. to rest, to 

·~ '"W'0Uld be 'Prin~e '}ettn ·of~~s~or · 
de'nt of th'e student body, Mr. conve~se, or to use '(he only gamePrincess Mary of Wales. 
Lafortune plans to make the first room on campus.
In the House of Commons, a mo­
floor more intimate and less bare, 
tion of congratulations wished the 
thus making it more conducive to The renovations are plannc::d to 
princess "excellent health and 
student interaction. make for a more relaxed atmos­
suitable self-indulgence during her Plans are not yet finalized, but the:: phere. Subdividing the:: large center (;Onfinemc::nc." 
non-structural work, such as paint­room into smaller rooms will 
Diana-watchers had been saying mg. ts scheduled tor Christmas promote this atmosphere. Undc::r the 5-fuot-9 princess was looking 
break. Carpentry work, such as sub­considc::ration are ideas such as 
thin, although she did not seem division of the large center room in­furnishing the rooms with new 
fazed by a grueling tour of rain­to smallc::r, more personalized carpeting, wall hangings, plants, and 
drt:nched Wales wt wec::k. And.she 
rooms, is planned for the sum-ne~~O!~ comfortorable furniture. 

Amish Style Cooking at its Best Groups Welcome 
Homemade pies , breads Souvenir Gift Shop Excellent selection ot meats
open Mon.-Sat. until 9 pm Daily brunch-70 items $4.59--8 am-2 pm 

.,, 1 Lit~~~·~,·~~N·~~n~~A~~·~ ·. 
l .. ·.. 

Kamchatka··Vodka·· 1 Liter. .......... _-_,:......$4.8 

Bois Peppermint. Schnapps 1 litre...................$4.99 
Blatz Case of Quarts.......~-;·~ ........$7.99 
~ 
Case of Quarts

"PABST 
~ BLUE 
..................$8.49

RIBBON 


---------~­
The Observer Friday, November 6, 1981 -page 4 

1980

United Way at N.D. Participation Chart IIIIIIIIIIU 
1981

Ratio is number of students contributing $2.00 or more divided by total number of students ­

Actor Robert Redford displays his displeasure at the announced postponement ofthe space shuttle launch. (APphoto) 
South Bend's newest & fmest m cUISme. 
Dine among the antiques and enjoy our view of the new downtown! 
Reservations Appreciated 234-9000 121 South Niles South Bend 

Would-be preacher 
Youth dies frolll aging disease 
(ilJLrPORT, \1iss. (AP) -A rare agi11g disease claimed the lifi: of Rus­sdl Ed L>ufour on yesterday. hut not bd()re the tiny I0-year-old ex­perknced one of his goals in life ­to be a preacher. 
"Russ got to do things that most little boys never get to do." said \1ing Dufour, his mother. "He got to he an (honorary ) po!iceman, tlreman, to work with his dad and to do what he wanted most. to he a preacher. The Lord just bkssed us." 
.\!Irs. Dufour believes Russell, who for the past five years had weighed only 16 pounds and stood 31 inches tall died ofa heart attack. 
,,'Ahnut .:;,_~0 a.m. he called to me 
and then he was gone." she said. 
Russell sufti:red from progeria. a 
Logan Center thanks communitY with film 
By TONI RUTHERFORD 
News Staff 

This Sunday at 7 p.m., the Logan Center is sponsoring the film Best Boy. This film is considered to be the .. ~ost honored film of all time," winning many awards including the 
1980 Academy Award for Best Feature Documentary. 
The film is about three years in the life of an elderly couple in their 70s and their 52-year-old retarded son. Phillip. It shows the small steps of progress Phillip makes while prepar­ing for an existence without his parents to can. for him. 
The Logan Center is sponsoring this film not as a fundraiser, but as a thank-you to the community for its support. They hope only for enough 
~~fidenth~n•"hneAn~ro~~u----~, 
t .t Sociology departments presents: : 
: Dr. Donald Johanson, 
1 Anthropologist t 1' 'The Evolution of Man' ' 
tllonday, •ov. 9, 8:00 pm Library Aud 
f Lottery for 1 dinner with Dr Dr. Johanson. I Bamu must be submitted by 8:00pm Bov. 8, " 1 t with the Stu-dent Union Secretary
.. ._.._.._.._.._.,_.~._.._.~~ .........~~-~~-----~ 
_ 

disease that aged his small body fimr Limes faster than normal. twisted his bone structure and limited his growth. At I 0. Russell's body had ad­vanced beyond that of a person of .to. 
He suffered from the same disease as rransie Geringer. an eight-year­old South African boy whose story and photographs sparked fundrais­ing eft(>rb. letters and telephone calls from wellwishers across the United States. 
Russell. a deeply religous child who said God had called him to be 
· an evangelist, said in an interview Tuesday that he had learned to live with his handicap. 
''l want to stay the size I am right now." he said. "I want to be an evan­
money to cover the costs ofthe tllm, though any extra will, of course, go to the center. Another purpose of the film is to introduce the com­munity to the hardships parents must face when preparing a hand­icapped child to exist in a world without them. 
The cost of the movie is $2 a per­son, or $5 per family. The price also covers the reception that will be held before the movie from 6 to 7 
p.m. Punch and hors d'oeuvres will be served. 
This is a first-time event; if it is suc­cessful, the Center hopes to sponsor other community-hased events such as puppet shows and films. Tickets for the film may be purchased at the door or at the LaFortune Student Center. 
gehst and heal peupk." 
lie was invited to more than a dozen churches in recent months and was learning to play the drums in hopes of some day playing gospel music. 
While Russell seemed grown up when explaining his religious beliefs, his eyes brightened in a childlike way when asked about his other wishes -he wanted to fly in a DC-I 0 jet to the Holy Land, ride a train and visit Disney World. 
Van Wolvlear urges no 
•

passtng up 
The office of the Vice Presi­dent for Student Affairs strongly discourages the "passing up" of students during football games. 
Vice President for Student Af­fairs Fr. John Van Wolvlear reported that three students, one from Saint Mary's and two from Notre Dame, were injured in "passing-up" incidents during last Saturday's game. 
Fr. Van Wolvlear's office joins the Notre Dame Student Senate and the Hall Presidents' Coun­cil in discouraging this practice. 

• • , NDSG 
continuedfrompage 5 
be given to the dorm which best ex­presses school spirit and has the best three activities in the preceding month. The HPC is also setting up a weekend exchange with the Univer­sity ofToronto for second semester. Approximately 1SO students from each school will switch places during a wwekend in February. Zim­merman calls it "kind of an or­ganized road trip." Sign-ups will be on a first-come first-served basis. 
Student Body Vice-President Tara Kenney points out that the cabinet is now "trying to tie up loose ends before it moves into its second semester projects." She echoes Mur­day in her statement that "these con­cerns may not seem very big, but they have a critical impact on stu­dent life." 


Badin.....,,, 
Holy CrO$SIIIIIIIrllllll: 
How•d~~~~r:I:I:__L_l_j__j 


Lyons •IIIIIIMIIilli! 

Pangborn ••••rn!l 
Pasquerilla E. •'__.......... 
. r ... "' .·. ·: " ....
P'~~J~ W. 


---·---·----------------------------------------­
The Observer Friday, November 6, 1981 -page 5 

·Nuclear weapon 





Pentagon confirms 'shot' plan 
WASHINGTON (AP) The noting that demonstrative use is an met over hreakfast for a discussion Reagan Atlministration said late yes­option that has bn:n considered hy hcfort: Weinberger went to Capitol terday that a possihle nuclear warn­NATO," the later statement said. Hill to testify. ing shot in the event of war in "And Weinherger was correct that Notably, the statement did not ac­Europe has been considered as a this option has never been count for why llaig mentioned the NATO option -but always with translated into a military plan." "contingc:m:y plans ... to tire a "signitkant doubts" that it ever The document was titled an ad­nudcar weapon" if there were sig­would be done. ministration statement pn:parctl by nitkant doubts about that tat'tic. He 
With chat statement. prepared at the Defense Department. had volunteered the disdosurc: the Pentagon and issued simul­In attempting to clarify the: issue, without voicing such doubts. taneously at the White House and it said: Spc:dtkally, flaig said, "There arc State Departmcnt, the administra­"In its considt·ration of nudear contingency plans in the NATO tion attempted to resolvc a con­employment issues, NATO a num­doctrine to tire a nudear weapon for tradiction in Congressional ber of years ago idcntitied the so­demonstrative purposes to testimony by Secretary of State called dc:monstrativ& usc as a demonstrate to the other sitlc that Alexander M. liaig .Jr. and Secretary possible option. It is this that they arc exceeding the limits of of Ddcnse Caspar Weinberger. Secretary Haig referred to yt·sterday. toleration in the conventional area." 
Haig saitl Wctlncsday that "However. as Secretary Weinber­No mt·mbn of the committee "demonstrative: usc" of a nudear ger indicated today, there is no asked Hai~ any ti>llow-up questions weapon was a NATO contingency prcdsc: NATO military plan and on the plan, so he did not dahorate. 
plan should conventional war break there have always been signitlcant He did not give reporters a chance 
out in Europe. But Weinberger tc:s­doubts expressed in NATO to question him. tifkd yesterday that he knew of doubts which the U.S. shares, about 
"absolutely nothing in any plan that thc utility of this option." 
even remotely resembles that." At the White House, spokesman 
The administration's statement David Gergen also insisted that neit­pronounced both men correct. But her secretary mis-spokc:. Then he it also changed the wortling of what read directly from tht· prepared each had said on Capitol Hill. statement. 
Haig told the Senate Foreign Rda· Gergen said Weinberger and llaig 
~~~~) c~:m~~~~ ~c:~~:~~~;'ge~hca; fikiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiJIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIII 
plan," but Weinbergt:r told the 
IBM Personal r rvnt'\1 ltl 
Senate Armed Services Committee '-A..-1.1..1.~ that such a plan did not exist, even • 
h 

lm'I 11 nIce to lmw a grondjm grou.ulsk<¥p"' to '"'"""'''"'•' ~~<~in':;:',".•:;,.::'"""'"'""" w~ I fJ(~~r 
T~::;;:::,::~~:=/~ife ~'~'~ H''• w~ ~~J!IP!!!!~come< in 
•th btl • I In Colete...,..,... ..._.Town &c.-try ••••I•c:.er.

NDSG k
wor s wt su e tssues l11111iiiiii•i•liiiiiiiiiii•iii•iiii•iiiiiiiiliiii•iniii•••• 

litlitor's note: 1'bt• jiJI/0/l'ing is On a more positive note, security asks for and on what each hall seems part of tl u•eek~}' series of student has noticeahly improved this year. to require. grwernmentupdates. Athletic exchanges between the two Borchers is also continuing his By GREG O'MEARA schools art: working well, and the talk~ with private d~vdopcrs Slutit'nt (,'rJIIenun.•nt position of the ND-SMC liason ap­concerning the feasibility of 
pears to he a det:itkd plus. townhouses and apartment com­
~llf/)ERS

In addition to the major pwposab llc:raty says "I try to c:Mahlish a plexes designed for student that generally gt·t ink, Student dctlnite link ht·twec:n the two rc:sidt:nct·. .,.,OF THE Gon·rnmt·nt works with issues that campust·s by t(K·using on what Tom Trozzolo, Cabinet Spcl'ial 
LOST ARK

caust' suhtk change:o; in students' projn:ts one school has that affects Projects man. is focusing his energy 
Starring HARRISON FORD
lives. Student Body Pre~ident Don the other." lic:raty commented that in two major areas. He is working on 

KAREN ALLEN
,\1unlay comments that "Evay after she has tinished tabulating all establishing campus r~cyding cen­chan~c: that oo.:curs dot·s ~o hc:causc: the results of her survey. she will ters. Ideally. there would be hins for ~ 
of a lot of work on the pan of some: rhc:n give the same questionnairt· to both aluminum cans and waste 


2:15-4:30-7:15-9:45 ~ 
t·ahinet mt·mhcr." members of Notre Dame's student paper located ncar each of the The cahinc:l post of Third World J.\OVernmc:nt and tht·n publish her dining halls. The money collc:t:ted C1ll1t't•rns Ull11111is~ionn is tillt:U hy results. Hcraty commcnetd that "It's from these efforts would he dividcd 
Bill Pti:itkr. Throu~h hb efforts. important that we t1nd areas we may between studc:m government and 
PRINCE OF THE CI'rf 
.J:um·s 1'. Cirant, Executivt· Direcwr be inadvcrtantly ignoring." HPC for their projects. 3lcau0 SuH. &w. flU. 1:30-4:40-8:00 of \i:"'IICEF i~ schnlulnlto speak on Housing Commissioner Pat Bor­Trozzofo is also working with Dr. 
~ Sot. ~-··1:00-4:00-7:00-10:00 
Tm·~day, :"1/ov. 10, I•JR I in the chn~ left the Board of Trustn·~ James :\l.cDonndl, Director of Stu­Lihrary Auditorium. Cirant rc:n:ivc:d meeting two weeks ago with dent Anivirics. to get approval for an honorary degree from Notre SI0,000 in matching funds to bt· cahk T.V. in Lafortune Student Cen­D:llllt' in IIJHO. llc: ha~ hdd his applkll towards improving hall so­ter. prt·~t·nt position ~inn· January of ual spat.'l'. Borchers and Campus Bob Zimmerman, chatrman of the I'JH I. lktorc th.ll time. he st-rvt•d as flou~ing Director Fr. \lichat:l lkp­Hall Presidt·nr's Council. ('Xplaint:d f'rc:~idc:nt of 1he l >versea~ Devt:lop­pcn toured all tht· halls on campus that the HPC will sponsoring the llll'lll Council. Lii~ chll!>t:n mpic i~ t•arlit-r in the year to delermine: what Andy Sowdt·r .\1nnorial Plaque, to .. J'ht· \\ ar on !Iunger. Sincen.-Com­t·ach hall nt·cds..\1oncy will he given 
See NDSG, page 4

llllllllt'IH or 1-:mpty Rht·torte'" om on tlw basis of what each hall Karen Corhnt <:o-Ex Direnor pouJI.'iollt lhattht· .. l'al..c: otl'r 1 otcs~or 
~----------------,
10 l.utll'h" program ~tans \lontlay. :'IJo\. '). All\' Sllltlt-nts intt-rcsrt·d in 
tThe Observer :d 
parriupallllJ.\ 111 the proJ.(ram should dwck wnh I ill' S!lldent <iuvcrnmc:nt t A · t oltin·. As in past vc:ar'..ill that is re 
t neebs a SffiC vay €bltOR t 
4L11rnl art· thrt-c •tudcnt~ .md a wil· hn~ prnk,,,,,Jr \laurl'c:n IInat\ hold~ the 
l ror:2 tu€sbays anb l 
P•lSIIwn of 'liD -~\H. ~rudt·nr t .. ,n-rmnt·nt L1.u~on. In addition to t thuRsbays. t \\lll'l-in).: "ith tht· '-.otn· Danll' Lthtnt·l am.! ~.-nate. ~hl' .tho alll'lllb .111 IIHTiinp ot tht• S.\IC 1\oard of : thiS IS a_pau~ POSitiOn. : 
( "1\ t-rn.lll< t "he rn:entlv pollnlthe ~.IIIli \Ltn ·, rt·pn·~t·nt.ttl\·t·~ in tin· 
0

: <\U IOt€R€St€b call ~ -.b. .fo -~ : 
area~ I<' -.-,·IH>\\ thl' prc~l'lll '\1> -­S\1< ·rd.JIJIJII,Jllp ,·;~n ht Jlllpnn ed. Sal! II .\1Jn ·, •tudt·nt' \'liiCnluln· 
tcathy at 277-2244 ~ <9JiP t
tTrn <~H'r rht· prl'~t·nt dbtrihurion of ha~kuhall !l<'keh..1 pro,·,·ss wluch t t they tound to he int·quirahk l'lwn· 
toR maRy aqnes t 
wt·m~ ru bt· d1fticult \ in the t'X· rhan~e Ulllr'e' a., \viii. Both :'IJotn· 
t at 4-1-5127 t
Dame: ami ~~-\ll.try\ 'Wdt·nts tind that rcJ.:t.,lr;IIHIII for cours,·s on tht· t t oppo~itc: rampu!-> often t·ntail~ un­

t cr · t 
ncn·s~ary diflkultv. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



The Observer Friday, November 6, 1981 -page 6 
• • • McGovern 











Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Combine the most exciting aspect of college football--the comeback--with 
the place that has come to mean college 
football--Notre Dame--and the result 

$12.95 
Author &sportscaster JeffJeffers will-autograph book from 9:30To 10:40 
Saturday only! 
Second floor book department. 
• • • Focus 
continuedfrom page I 

weeks since it added Diane Sawyer as co-anchor and expanded to 90 minutes to better compete with "Today" and "GMA" -both two-hour broadcasts. 
Before "GMA," NBC and CBS geared their early programs to older people and business travelers with morning time on their hands. For years, these viewers got the same kind of news and information offered on radio. 
But "GMA" introdun·d entertail.ment and created an audience fresh to morning TV. including women and younger viewers who had put ABC on top in prime time with shows like "Charlie's Angels" and "Happy Days." 
These viewers were ready for .t zippier morning show, and ABC complied with actor David .Hartman as host. Rona Barrt·tt for shm,vhiz gossip. jack Anderson for 
continuedfrom page I 

the Supreme Court decision prohibiting prayer in public schools, you were anti-family." 
McGovern also cited one group that determined its moral ratings of congressmen. The zero-!00 ratings were based on 14 selected issues. "There's nothing wrong with trying to determine the moral integrity of congressmen, but you have to be careful ofthe criteria. Should secular issues be a factor?" McGovern asked. 
He noted that supporting ERA 
dropped one's moral rating by ten points. So did supporting reductions in military spending. "What part of the New Testament did they get that out of?" inquired McGovern, who recieved a zero rating. Also reciev­ing a zero was Fr. Dreinen, the Cath­olic priest who served as a congressman from Massachussetts. Congressman Kelly ofABSCAM fame recieved a 100 pi:r..:ent moral rating. 
McGovern also read from a 
news gossip and Julia Child for food tips. 
"What had worked for magazines was working for television," said Marvin Barrett ofthe Columbia lJniver­sity School of journalism. "Time Inc. had taken the gossip-and-cekbrity approach from the National En­quirer and turned out a classier product -People magazine." 
At first, "GMA" took viewers from "Today." Then the 
NBC veteran stopped fighting the trend, adding non­
news celebrities to its health-and-diet interviews, steal­
ing Miss Barrett from ABC, hiring Willard Scott, a folksy weatherman who .used to be the Ronald McDonald hamburger clown in Washington, and giving Phil Donahue a slot in the second hour when audiences are dominated by women. 
Sunday, and the rest of the week, will never be the same. 
speech by conservative Barry Goldwater, and commented that "The religious issues of the new groups in our politics have little to do with conservatism or liberalism. They are a divisive dement that could tear apart true representative government if they get enough strength. They are detracting us away from the issues our country must concentrate on. 
''I'm sick and tired of political preachers telling me that to be a moral person, I must believe in A, B, and C. Who are they to tell me what my moral beliefs should be? I'm especially angry that as a Senator I must endure threats from religious groups who think they have a God­given right to control my every vote on every roll call. 
_ "It's not a question ofbeing moral­ly right or wrong," McGovern con­tinued, " but of trying to figure out what in the long run is in the public's best interest." 
The former senator then quoted some members of the right wing. McGovern quoted the president of NCPAC as saying, "We're negatively oriented and we're not interested in respectability. We're going to beat those liberals and send a shiver up all the liberals in Congress...lmages are important, not the issues." 
The president of a coalition of Baptist churches was quoted as saying that "all other gods except Jehovah and Jesus are strange gods...I find it strange that whenever there is an event with religious reptesentatives, there is always a Protestant, a Catholic, and a Jew. With all due respect, God almighty does ·not hear the prayers ofa jew." 
McGovern commented on the 
tactics used in defeating his bid for reelection. saying."Tht.· TV and radio ads pound away at your image. They said I wasn't representing South Dakota. It's true that not many people take these ads seriously. but when you're in a race that's usually only won by two, three or four per­cent, it only takes a small amount of change by these extremis.ts to sway 
an election." 
.'VlcGovern also commented on other issues. Commenting on his un­successful bid for the Presidency in 
1972, he said that there are worse things that could happen to a per­son. "I would rather be here tonight with you a loser than trade places with the winner." On th~ buildup of nuclear armaments he said that we must try to keep arms under control to avoid the possibility ofnuclear an­nhiliation as well as the financial and economic drain it puts on. both the lJnited States and the Soviet lJnion. 
When asked if he thought that the Moral Majority had a chance of unseating Senator Edward Kennedy ofMassachussetts, he replied, "I'd be surprised if they did. Massachussetts is a pretty remarkable statt:." He also said that he thought the right-wing groups reached the high point of their power in the 1980 elections. 
McGovern is organizing a grass­root campaign against right-wing groups, calling his new group "Americans for Common Sense". 
The growth ofthe Radical Right is mostly due to the search for a simplistic approach to our complex and .frustrating problems, according to Mcovern. "lJnfortunately. easy answers just don't exist. If there was an easy answer to inflation, I'm sure one ofthe last four presidents would have solved the prohlem long ago." 


l 
I 
The Observer Friday, November 6, 1981 -page 7 I 


Wednesday launch possible 
NASA examines shuttle 
CAPE .CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) ­
"The ground team knew what diJIIar spacecraft.Specialists gained acc.ess to Colum­
they were doing," said Truly. A problem unconnected with the bia's contaminated hydraulic sy~tem 
Page said next Wednesday is the APlls caused the computer to stoplast night as they sought to 
earliest possible launch date, but it the countdown. National determine if the reusable space could easily be later. After a new Aeronautics and Space Administra­shuttle can make its second launch 
date is chosen, Columbia's second tion experts quickly decided this as early as next Wednesday. 
countdown will pick up with 35 problem was insignificant and They had to wait until half a mil­
work hours to go. about 58 and a half prepared to go. lion gallons of volatile fuel were 
hours before actual ignition. 
But at another launch control
drained from Columbia's external 
The decision on whether to install console, monitors noticed that the
tank and work platforms were 
new units will be made Saturday. 
pressure of two auxiliary power uni­
erected before they could get at the 
Rockwell International, the prime ts were higher than the third, and
three Auxiliary Power Units. 
contractor, said it has one of the just inside the permissible range.
Launch director George Page 

APUs on hand, and one that can be gotten to the launch pad quickly.
scrubbed the first launch attempt Weather was bad and getting Wednesday after filters in two of the worse. The astronauts had been in a
A swap would take 32 hours plus. oil-filled APUs clogged just before cramped position inside the cockpit
time for testing. 
scheduled liftoff. for nearly six hours. Finally, this mar­
Overpressure in two of the 
"It will take about two days to ginal reading. Page ordered the
shuttle's APU's, apparently caused analyze the troubled power units," 
scrub.
by contaminants that clogged an Page said yesterday. "If they need 
easily-changed filter, caused Page to Engineers speculated a fuel called only to be flushed out and filled with 
order the launch attempt scrubbed. hydrazine leaked through APU seals fresh oil, a mid-week launch is pos­
Thursday, Columbia's volatile fuels to mix with lubricating oil. The sible. If the units must be replaced, 
were drained and stored, and a com­result would have been buildup ()fa the launch will not be until the 
plete review began to determine waxy substance that clogged inlets, following week." 
what went wrong inside the billion-creating heat and pressure. The APUs act as a power steering unit works on a car. They power hydraulic systems that swivel the ship's three big engines on liftoffand lower the wheels and control the movable wing surfaces on landing.

_House negotiators 
If all had gone well Wednesday, astronauts Joe Engle and Richard Truly would have turned on Colum­
Tonight: 

~Zz~

agree on supports 


WASHINGTON (AP) -House negotiators yesterday tentatively ac­cepted a Senate plan for government sugar price supports, overriding last month's narrow House vote that rejected a sugar support plan. 
Hut the joint conference commit­tee, trying to fashion a compr0mise package of farm price supports ac­ceptable to President Reagan, remained at an impasse over dairy and grain programs. Unless satisfac­torily resolved, it jeopardizes the entire farm package. 
"Grain and dairy are the two car­dinal areas," said Rep. Thoma'> Foley, D-Wash., the House Democratic whip. "That's where we have the principal budget problems." 

NYC police make arrests in disco 
NEW YORK ( AP) -More than 
400 bleary-eyed young people 
inched through a criminal process­
ing line at police headquarters 
Thursday after their arrests in a 
mammoth drug raid on a Manhattan 
disco. 
"They had all kinds of narcotics," 
said deputy police inspector Joseph 
Vincent. "Drugs, smoke and coke, 
anything you wanted." 
Officers raided the Gotham Disco 
late Wt·dnesday after undercover 
agents made dght to I0 purchasess 
ofmarijuana, cocaine and mescaline. 
Police used five vans and spent 
more: than two hours ferrying those 
arrested to a nearby precinct 
stationhouse. 
Lt. John Brennan of the Narcotics 
Hureau said 2H l males and I 3H 
females were: arrested. :\<lost were 16 
to 20 years old, but Hrennan said 
about six of the girls were under the 
age of 16. 
Ten were charged with selling 
narcotics. which carries penalties of 
up to one year in jail. The rest were 
given summonses for loitering, a 
misdemeanor that carries a 525 fine. 
As they waited to be processed 
Thursday, most of those: arrested 
wt·rc: unrepentant and many com­
plained about the raid. 
·· \1an. there's crime on the strt·ets 
and the cops ain't gut nothing better 
to do than bust us," said one youth 
wearing torn dungarees, sweatshirt 
and unlaced sneakt·rs. 

bia's scientific experiments, looked for opportunities to photograph 
Experience the talents of 
Rep. Peter Peyser, D-N.Y., who en­lightning on Earth and exercised the gineered House rejection of the craft's never-spacetested robot arm sugar plan, was the only House -its orbital crane. 

Et AI. 

member to oppose acceptance of Instead, they accepted the disap­
show starts at 10:00 pm
the Senate version. He warned the pointment, arose early yesterday to panel that its action on sugar, make emergency landings at the coupled with expected dissatisfac­Cape and then flew to their home 
Tomorrow: 
tion over whatever compromise is base in Houston to wait out the reached for grain and dairy, could delay. 
Ki~k b_qfk to music, magic 
mean House rejection of the entire On arrival in Houston, Engle told p:1ckage. reporters, "Of course we would 
A half dozen proposed com­have liked to have flown. But if we promises on the dairy program, the had a problem lurking in the bird government's most expensive price that we would have worried about support plan, were turned down in for five days and maybe have taken quick succession, either by the something away from the flight ob­House because they were inade­jectives, we're mighty glad that we quate or by the Senate because they found out and held off until we can were too costly. get it fixed." 
Homer Lautrec Chagall Seurat Wyeth Van Gogh Gauguin Klee 
....
·-0
s::: 
Q)
a: 

-:... 
Q)
.... 
ca 
en 
ca 
> 
s::: 
.c: 
ca 
.c: 

en --en
.... ·-........ en 
<C 
Q) 
en 
Q)
s::: 
ca 

0. 
ca
...., 
_.. 






LAST DAY 
OF THE 
ART PRINT SALE 
* 
Full color reproductions of the works of over 100 famous master artists 

* 
Fantastic low prices--any 3 for only $7 

* 
This is your last opportunity to decorate inexpensively 


Time: 9 am-4 pm Place: LaFortune Student Center TODAY ONLY! 
Rembrandt Cezanne Rousseau Vermeer Matisse Remington 
3: 
0 
~ 
CD
.... 
c 
Q)
-
-· 
tD 
CD 
Q)
... 
0. 
en
-
CD 
'< 
3: 
Q) 
cc 
.... ... ... -· 
CD 
(")-· 
Q) 
en 
en 
0 
c 
CD 
cc 
Q) 
en 
--~--~------------­
The Observer Friday, November 6, 1981 -page 8 
Penn State Lottery winners 
Winners in the Student Union Penn State football ticket lottery are listed below by student identitka­tion number. in numerical order. \X'inners may purchase two ge.neral admission tickets to the game to be played Nov. 21 at University Park in Pennsylvania. 
Tickets may he purchased at the Student Union Ticket Office/Record Store Tuesday through Thursday, I 0 
a.m. to 4 p.m. upon presentation of student identification. Tickets not picked up by Thursday at 4 p.m. are forfeited. 
Afew seats still remain on the Stu­dent Union bus to the game. Stu­dents may purchase tickets and a place on the bus for S85. 
008560775 048609109 057429078 061580415 066581900 071448271 093481005 097407054 097527'iS5 
100501386 118420846 122565283 135389265 145521166 148503741 149'i85934 149686753 155425846 173'i42881 17';547049 17SS64633 183528304 188369278 194508144 197480314 1975869'i0 198580960 
209386141 209448909 210525649 216888141 225864106 227820929 240159723 261178142 26.3453811 
270565029 275';82962 28'562930'; 287686004 294661819 
.309607662 .316629304 332506181 341546S23 346625039 3'i3'542030 .355546597 359408231 363396283 363721070 367768427 369806828 38472919.3 
39256756'5 399545929 
401985978 429338910 449-111693 4620642'i9 462397644 47780.3639 4865666';7 48982'5869 
5!4744910 516948590 '532763353 S457055'59 5519826'51 5604316'56 574584151 
Doctors move toward answer to crib deaths 
BALTI.\10RE (AP)-A hormonal imbalance t()Und in crib death vic­tims may lead to a simple test to identify and save infants who suffer from the mysterious disease, Univer­sity of Maryland researchers said Thursday. 
The researchers said the im­balance they identified is the first solid physiological trait linking vic­tims of Sudden Infant Death Syndrome, which kills 7,000 U.S. in­fants every year. 
Significantly high levels of the hormone tri-iodothyronine, or T-3, were found in 44 out of50 Maryland SIDS victims, according to a study published in the November issue of 
Pediatric~. 
"Up until now. Sudden Infant 
Death Syndrome has been a very 
vague, very undefined group of 
syndromes," Tildon said. "Forty-four 
out of SO -no other findings have 
been that immediate. One could say 
it is a very good indication of an al­
tered endocrine system." 
T-3 can be detected with a blood 
test and can be controlled by drugs. 
But researchers said many questions 
must be answered before a screen­
ing test can be devised. 
Scientists believe T-3 has a major influence on a wide variety of in­voluntary functions such as breath­ing and heartbeat, Tildon said. 
The finding is consistent with other research that links SIDS to high rates of metabolism and a decline in growth from birth to the fourth month of life, Tildon said. Most such deaths occur in winter months, when higher levels of T-3 are found in adults, he added. 
"I want to make it crystal clear that it is not known at this time if it (T-3) is related to the cause or the consequence of something else," Tildon said. 
WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY IN STLOUIS 
ConsideringGraduate Business Study? 
An MBA degree can build on any undergraduate major to prepare you for a meaningful career in business, industry or not-for-profit organizations. The MBA may be the most relevant professional training for your career. 
Meet a representative of the Washington University MBA 
Program. 
Assoc. Dean Glenn D9trick 
will be on campus to talk with interested students. Date: November 9 198" Place: Placen ent Office 
Call the office above for an appointment. 
Whether you plan to pursue an MBA directly after graduation or would like to work first before attending business school, take this opportunity to learn about Washington University. 
Washington University encourages and gives full consideration to applicants for admission and financial aid without respect to sex. race, handicap. color. creec!, or national origin. Un1vers1ty policies and programs are nond1scrimmatory 
















Editorials 
Friday, November 6, 1981 -page 9 
Panic over new 'terrorism' unnecessary 
··I think that what we've 'ccn in exchang..: information with kdcral. While anti-war leaders took pains name of safeguarding the interests of tn distanL·c their efforts from those ofNyack. N.Y .. i' th..: tip of the state and local agencies. the nation. Maxwell Glen i..:ch<.:rg. Th..: plan' go much d..:t:pt:r th Yet. hcforc reopening the door to the Weather Underground. they had Trough the hysterical days of the that. The plan' an.: for tt:rrorists to domestic spying, both tho.: Whitt: trouble convincing ft.!deral authori­Vietnam protests arc long over, ond Cody Shearer upset the government of the United Hous<.: and Congress should place the ties of the distinction. Intelligence paranoia ·about a possible resurgenco;: States." Nyack revclatins in an historical con­agents used the pretext of anti­of dissent and violence may well 
That was the warning we received text. terrorism and suspected foreign prompt the Reagan administration Here and Now 
sponsorship to inv..:stigate large num­to
last week in an inh:rview \\ ith t(mncr In 1968, the 100-plus member and Congress take the Weather bers of Americans who disagreed
I·B !official. W. :vtark F..:lt, follow­Weatherman organization was born Underground nut of its logical his­ing tht: tragic murdt:r of two on the narrowly held conviction that with the government's Vietnam torical context. Its reapp..:arancc on we know condones the actions of policy. As most everyone should
poli..:..:mt:n and an arm..:d guard only violent acts against the the front pages is likely to spark th..:se homicidal maniacs. cam­
during a $1.6 million hank rohhery American establishment could stop remember, this far-reaching claims among C lA and FBI backers But we should avoid buckling un­paign involved infiltration of domes­
involving fugitiv..: members of the the Vietnam War. The ensuing cam­of "I told you so" and result in a der the grisly shock of terrorist­radical Weather Underground or­paign to "Bring the War Home" tic dissident groups, illegal return to the intelligance-gathering linked murders in Rockland Countywiretapping and interference with the
ganization. resulted in bombing attacks on bank attitudes of old. and can:fully evaluate pending na­.. I h<.:licw the Weather Under­buildings and other public places. U.S. mails. Of course, anyone familiar with tional se..:urity plans. After all, th..: 
Try as they may, U.S. intelligence the anti-war movement and current
ground has tics with other terrorist Although Am..:riean citizens were al­combin..:d efforts of state and tederal organizations,·· declared the former legedly not targets, the violence in­agencies could find no hard links be­dissident groups knows that the lawmen landed a bounty of suspectedthe movement
acting associate director of the FBI, evitably injured innocent people. tween anti-war and Weather Underground is at most a terrorists without the help of who was found guilty last year of Former W Catherman Bo unfriendly foreign powers. Yet, they lunatic cell group that has no support proposed changes in current federal consipiring to violate the constitu­Burlingham explained the fringe sacrificed the rights of a few in the on the left or anywhere else. No one law. 
tional rights of W<.:ather Under­nature of the group in the book, "the ground members and th..:ir relatives Sixties": during the early 1970s. He was later "We felt like miners trapped in a 
pardoned by President Reagan. terrible poisonous shaft with no light 
While our own anxieties about to guide us out. We resolved to American-bred terrorism have been destroy the tunnel even if we risked heightem:d by th<.: appalling des t troying ourselves in the process. homicides in Rockland County, .. It all seemed simple and N.Y., we're watching.the official frightening. We organized into tight, r..:actin to th..: incident with interest. closed collectives, which enabled us Federal investigators have already to sustain our courage and commit­
pounc<.:d on <.:vidence of possible ment. but which shut us off from the links hetwe..:n Weath<.:r Und<.:rground world outside.'' members. th..: Black Lib<.:ration Before long, Burlingham and a 
Army, FALN (Puato Rican majority of his comrades realized nationalists) and the Irish that, whatever their despair over the Republican Army. war, perpetrating violence at home 
Sometime soon. the R..:agan ad­was no way to bring about positive ministration and certain members of change. They dropped out. But a Congress arc lik..:ly to usc the Nyack small faction would continue their massacrt: in arguments for bringing self-destructive ways under a new th..: C lA back into tht: surv..:illance of name, the Weather Underground, 
domestic radical organizations. Un­and be linked to bombings as late as der a proposed ..:xecutive order, tht: 1975 (including an explosion in a White House would allow tht: C lA to bathroom in the U.S. Capitol). 

Liberal victory •• a countertrend? 
The eyes of the nation's politicos the wealthy, liberal. northern part of has shown the ability to bend his But the Virginia race is the na­were silently alert Tuesday, watch­the state, but his main claim to fame ideology to conform with the con­tion's tirst test of the "Conservative 
Tom JockmDD
ing two highly indicative guber­is that he married Lynda Bird servative tendencies of the state -Shiti." Virginia, once controlled by natorial races which could well be an Johnson, the daughter of Lyndon always the mark of a good politician. a powerful political machine, has al­accurate barometer of the popularity Johnson. As you may know, that It was one of LBJ's tendencies, and ways been outstandingly con­of Ronald Reagan. One year after family has a bit of wealth. In 1977, Robb seems ideologically close to his servative, and the GOP has ruled the is more personal t than political. As a Reagan's election, we have a liberal Rohb spent over $500,000 to win the late father-in-law. governor's mansion for the last four person, he's a lovable lout, with his showdown in New Jersey. but more ' $18,000 a year lieutenant governor­Marshall Coleman. meanwhile, terms. The Republicans should have tilted head and sincere inflection. Af­importantly, a conservative show­ship. Robb dearly has designs on won the state's attorney general job been able to withstand the challenge ter his summer solilo4uy on tax l'Uts, down in my home state, Virginia. higher positions -such as president in 1977, and he is relying solely on of this Robb fellow. who recalls how ..:ould any senator help but vote 
In Virginia, moderate Democrat of the United States. the conservatism of Virginia for his LBJ' s Great Society. moderate for Ron's programs? Or the AWACS Chuck Robb faced conservative Robb is an ambitious. well-spoken backing. The current Republican liberalism, and other ideals anathema deal? Republican Marshall Coleman. young politician. and in the confused governor is a popular one, Virginia to the New Right. But out in the heartland, the people Then: were no primary battles, no politics of Virginia, he is adapting was the only Southern state not to go The race got closer in the final have had a year now to consider 
intra-party struggles -these two quite well. His is a name you should to Jimmy Carter in 1976, and one of days, but Robb ended up winning Reagan\ proposals, and, in many have hcen kicking each other helow remember, because you'll be hearing the first to go to Ronald Reagan in roughly 54 percent of the vote, a vic­cases, to be directly affected by the belt since May. Robb represents it more in the future. In this race, he 1980. ' tory the Democrats in Virginia will them. Perhaps things aren't going as So it made for a fairly interesting trumpet as a smashing triumph. well as the White House would have confrontation: Robb, the young. Indeed, it may well be. Marshall us believe, Remember, Reagan's ap­charismatic, middle-of-the-road Coleman made no bones about his proval ratings in the polls have been Democrat, vs. Coleman, the unadulterated support for the the lowest of any president since they 

P.O. Box Q 
staunchly conservative Republican programs of Ronald Reagan, and his started taking the polls. This doesn't in a staunchly conservative state. record as attorney general backed mean much on Capitol Hill, where the University because of a broken 
Going into the final weeks, Robb led that up. Chuck Robb did make con­Reagan may continue to win political back. 
Dear Editor: 
by as much as I 0 points in some cessions to the right, in an effort to battles, but he cannot maintain the il­We realize, too late, our misrake.
During our recent game against 
Navy, a couple of members of the 
polls. But recognizing the implica­pick up disaffected conservatives, lusion of a national mandate much We urge the student body to also dis­Notre Dame Cheerleaders par­
tions of the race, Reagan began but even that move couldn't have longer. It's not there. 
continue this dangerous activity andticipated in the "passing up" of stu­
campaigning personally for Coleman resulted in an eight-point margin of In the meantime. remember the all supporting our 
around the state, and the Republican victory. name Chuck Robb. He's headed for team. Let us all channel our fantastic dents. We were wrong; it was poor to exert energy 
judgment on our part. 
National Committee dumped in more If liberals can win in Virginia­the national political spectrum, and enthusiasm in cheering the Irish to aIn no way do we want to promote than $2 million. The Democrats the charisma of Robb notwithstand­the governorship of a large common­successful conclusion during ourthis activity. The risk of physical in­aided Robb with about one-tenth of ing-they can win anywhere. and wealth like Virginia could prove to remaining games. 
that, instead focusing their attentions the Democratic party should take be an excellent stepping stone.
JUry is very real. Several students 
Sincerely. 
on the Jersey race of James Florio vs. heart. Robb's victory would seem to mean, whoever heard of Jimmy Car-have been injured in the past and one 
The Notre Dame Cheerleaders 
was even forced to withdraw from 
Thomas Kean. indicate Ronald Reagan's popularity ter? ) 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
==Ihe_-Obset:ver== 
Editor-in-Chief............................. .John McGrath SMC News Editor...................... Cathy Domatilco' 
. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Executive News Editor.........................Kdli Flint Photo Editor........................................]ohn Macor
The Observer is an independent newspaper published bv the srudenrs of the 
News Editor ..................................Tim Vercellotti 
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessanly 
News Editor............................. David Rickabaugh Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported 
Sports Editor ..............................Michael Ortman Controller ..............................................)oc Mulflur
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represenr rhe opinion of a 
Editorials Editor............... ' ........Anthony Walton Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen
majority of the Editorial Soard. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views Features Editor .........................Gregory Swicrcz Production Manager...................Mlchacl Mt>nk
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community. and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. SMC Executive Editor........... Mary Agnes Carey Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan 

L
ast Saturday while we were sitting on Green Field before the Navy game, an arkie friend ofmine noticed Michael Molinelli as he was walking along between cars. We called him over and I asked him: "Ah, Mikt, ah, I want to interview you in the next couple ofdays. I'm doing a character sketch on you for The Observ--" He said: "Does that mean I'm a character instead ofa person?".... 
Profile 
By Elizabeth Blakey 
Michael Molinelli, the person, is a fifth-year 
architecture student living between the 
second and third floors of the Arkie Building· 
in a comfortable little caretaker's apartment. 
He is not a well known face on this campus, 
but his comic strip" Molarity" is infamous. For Domers, the cartoons are synonymous with laughing at lunch. The main characters (Jim, Dion, Chuck and Mitch) have been around 
N.D. for five years now. They are close friends whose cartoon home ends this year. 
When I went to visit Michael Molinelli, the first thing I noticed was his thin reddish tit: and his slight and mysterious smile. The next thing I saw was a large white drawing board covered with what became this week's "Molarity." On the adjacent wall over his couch, the word MANHATTAN was painted in black skyline figures. The third wall around the room had windows and chairs. I sat down. Later Mike pointed out to me his complete paper bound set of"Molarity" which sits calm­ly at the end ofhis bookcase. The other com­plete edition is in the Ubrary ofCongress. 
Fortunately for us, two excellent collections of the ··Molarity" strip have been published by our own Juniper Press. Last year's book, "On the Road to Selling Out," is a selective collection ofabout halfthe cartoons from the first two years, Michael's freshman and sophomore years. Mike started doing "Molarity" soon after his arrival at N.D. During his first semester, however, The Observer used it only as occasional filler. That policy changed in Spring 1978 when a new set of editors decided to run "Molarity" daily on a trial basis for a year. It has been daily ever since. 
Anyone can understand why "Molarity" is so popular: it treats familiar subjects and is very funny. What's harder to understand is how one guy can be that consistently funny. I asked Mike where he gets so many great ideas. 
"I'm a very sick person....Actually, I just take what's happening, you know, there's constant thinking, constantly somethinggoing through the mind," he answered, at first smiling, then waving his hand back and forth by his ear. He thought for a moment and then stood up and walked slowly around while he talked. "I mean, nothing is very funny unless it's, you know, recognized." He went on to say that what he does is take the facts, "there's the con-· tent," and change the form, "all the while taking one step towards absurdity." Compar­ing himself to advertisers, Michael said, "It's not the facts, it's how they're presented." 
For example, take the recent strips on Fr. Hesburgh's "retirement." The facts were that the trustees had the man most qualified for president ofNotre Dame in the job. Then he retired. So they began searching for the man most qualified for the job and decided on Hes­burgh. "Luckily," Molinelli's announcer 
declares, "he has just become available." 
A lot of people would think, judging by the quality ofthe strip and the three-reprintings success of"On the Road to Selling Out" that Molinelli would have no trouble selling his comics into syndication and making his living as a cartoonist. Actually, Mike (who wants to be an architect, "Contrary to what some people think I didn't come here to do five years of" Molarity") has discovered that cartooning is a very competitive field. Last summer he received rejection letters ("they were very nice") from every syndicate he wrote, except from the one which runs 

Michael Molinelli, authorofMolarity, at­tempts to sell his book to disinterested, 
." 
Peanuts. ''I'm waiting for that one so I can have a complete set," Michael smiled a small mirth­ful smile and then became more serious, "Either they are really debating it or they just don't care," he said. King syndicate told Mike that they get 3000 submissions a year from which they pick one or two. "So you have to have more than a good comic strip, you have to have something they want." 
Obviously"Molarity" has something Notre 
Dame wants. The adventures ofJim, Dion, 
Chuck and Mitch are almost everyday by most 
of us, as a natural unmeditated action. I think 
we like them because they are like us. I asked 
Mike whether any ofhis characters were pat­
terned after someone in particular at Notre 
Dame. "Jim Mole is the only one based on 
someone real. Jim is myself, or rather a vision 
ofmyselfthat I used to have. The others are for 
the most part synthesis and fabrication." Dion 
is loosely based on several people that Mike 
has known here. He is supposed to be the 
"image ofaristocracy." Chuck, Molinelli's 
rifle-bearing activist, is "a mixture ofall the 
ideas around in the late sixties, even if incon­
sistent." Mike mentioned the big '50s nostal­
gia fad and said,"! figure a sixties nostalgia is 
just around the corner." The fourth main 
character, Mitch, is "quintessence Notre 
Dame. He's everythingpeople here think they 
are or should be and everything that people 
outside Notre Dame think we are. Ifyou meet 
someone and say that you go to Notre Dame, 
the first question is 'Are you on the football 
team?' Mitch is on the football team in answer 
to that." 
Molinelli's minor characters include Cheryl (Mitch's girlfriend and her roommate, Brenda). By Michael's own admission, the girls are superficial. He explained, though, that he didn't feel he could express a girl's viewpoint of N.D. "Rather than do it poorly, I chose not to do it all." For the same reason, Mike chose not to do a black character, "something that I am often asked about." Alfie, the dolphin character, is Molinelli's idea ofthe final minority. Because Alfie is not human, "he's someone the whole human race can hate." In fact, Juniper Press didn't like Alfie 
very much and tried to prevent any Alfie strips getting into the books. "But," Michael said 
See MOLINELLI, page 11 ­
The Observer --Features Friday, Novembt:r 6, 1981-pag~ ll 
Earthy as tacky ne plus ultra 

H
enry was a student who was very concerned about his life ofsin. He came into my room at four o'clock in the morning, hoping I would hold detailed conversa· tion with him about his irregular behaviour with his girlfriend. (The behaviour, by the way, would have seemed regular enough to some people, but Henry was a decent lad, and wanted to play by the rules.) 
!listened, because it was important to Henry, but it seemed like an open·and-shut case to me. Henry had ex­perienced a familiar sexual ache. Feeling himselfstirred by desin:. he treated it as though it were a divine im­perative, like being invited to a party he couldn't stay home from. Later, feeling himselfsoiled, he rushed off to a priest, and asked for an audience. He felt close to damnation for what he had done. He presented himself as a tragic tlgure playing penitent in a cosmic drama, with Beelzebub as his protagonist. For me, at four o'clock in the morning, earthy is tacky ne plus ultra. I found it hard to treat it as a drama ofheaven and hell. 
"Henry," I said, "you imposed on a lovely girl in a way 
Letters To A Lonely God 
responsible for pain felt by God. At four o'clock in the morning, I feel agnostic before the mystery ofan un­complaining heaven. 
"It was a choice between thinking ofGod, or thinking of myself," he said, "and I preferred myself. That's the sin of not loving God enough, and myself too much. Now I need God's forgiveness so that I can be at peace with myself." 
"There is something we do with language that wears us out with deception. Round and round we go, on a carousel of words, as though we understood the reality that words represent. Every time we glide past the monkey house on our painted horses, we try to say what the monkey house means. Every time we turn in a circle, we remember brass rings that we never reached for, and imagine brass rings metaphors oflife. Yet all I can describe ofpassion is a thought detached from pas­sion. All I can know of truth is a half-truth I will deny tomorrow. All I can detlne ofGod is a word that will not contain Him. Sin is a word, and forgiveness is another 
word. Words are as close as we can get to God in our ex­
perience ofa mediated heaven, and faith may be a mat­
ter oflanguage we have put our trust in. 
His high-minded confession sounded anti-incarnational, after holding a girl in his arms as Henry had done. 
"Henry," I said, "I'm sending you home with a deferred forgiveness. I will be responsible until tomor­row for the guilt that you feel." 
"I wouldn't be able to sleep," he said. "Why are you doing this to me?" 
"Maybe we cheapen grace, by making it too easy," I said. "Maybe God's too busy watching the fall ofspar­rows to notice you." 
I should have asked him ifhe thought that maybe God, too has temporary loves. Maybe that's the reason those sparrows crash in their flight, because God's love for them is only temporary. I wonder ifhe feels He hurts them by letting them fall? 
\ 

' I 


Students thrive upon playing 'rumor' games 
A
ttending a school like Notre Dame involves a lot more than paying a lot of money for a small room, crummy weather, bad food, oh yes, and classes. With that tuition bill comes over a century oflegends, myths, and tradition (also referred to as lies, exagerrations, and distortions, not necessarily in that order). 
It seems that whenever anything happens around here, no matter how trivial, everyone dives for their trivia file to see when it last hap­pened, by who, and how much. 
"The last time two squirrels were hit by the same golfcart was back in 1973." 
"Sixstudents became illfrom dining hall food, hearkening back to the golden days ofyesteryear when the whole South Quad was inad­vertantly given dysentery." 
"Here's one for the record books. A pre-med was heard to have 
that is stupid. You insisted on her doing something she's 
probably ashamed of. She felt sorry for you. Now she's 
apt to spend a great deal oftime feeling sorry for her­
self." 
"I didn't seduce her," he said. "She didn't think it was 
cheap or bad, because: we were expressing the way we 
ft:lt. It felt as though we were doing the thing we needed 
to do, because there was love between us." 
"Obviously," I said ironically, "ifyou loved her, you 
didn't hurt her, and there was no sin. So why are you 
here?" 
"Look," he said, "I'm sorry for what I've done. I've 
loved her enough to turn my backon God, but it's only a 
temporary love, so I'm sorry." 
"Would you marry the girl," I said, "ifyou could?" 
"We're too young to get married," He said. "We have to tlnish school, and begin our careers. After that, we have the rest ofour lives to think about marriage." 
"Does she understand," I said, "that your feeling for her is a temporary love?" "We never talked about marriage," he said. "We never promised each other anything." 
"Still," I said, "you feel that you hurt her?" 
"I never hurt anyone but God," he said. "I knew I was hurting God; but that's personal to me, because I'm religious." Sin, I think, is largely a matter ofwhat people do to themselves and to other people. He was making himself 
I
n an attempt to acquaint students 
and faculty with the cultural 
happenings ofthe campus and ofthe 
South Bend area, this new column 

Paul McGinn Gregory Swiercz 
Weekend 
looks to such events as tllms, plays, concerts, and exhibits. Each week, The ObsertJ(>r will preview certain noteworthy cultural events, events which provide high-quality, profes­sional entertainment. 
Headlining concerts is the Mic­hiana New Music Ensemble. Under the direction of Roger Briggs, Assis­tant Professor of Music at Saint Mary's, the ensemble will present its program 8:00 p.m. Sunday in the Little Theatre at Saint Marv's. 
continuedfrom page I 0 
shyly tilting hi!> hl·ad and speaking a little softer. "I got him in." 
Although we may recognize his characters, Molinelli himself, is, as I said, not a well-known face. He likes it that way. Once last year when Mike was eating alone in the dining hall, on his left were a group of people reading the day's strip. They praised it ecstatically and decided that ,\1olinelli must be a great guy. Then to Mike's right, another group sat down to read the strip. They commented how weird it was and how weird Molinelli had to be. Meanwhile :vtike sat in the middle 
enjoying hh anonymity and his lunl·h. ":vtost people when they do mtTt me think I'm either not pure 
•a&a 



For the Good Times 
: rrr.~
:sF • W'' 
Two concerts head the University 
Artist Series at the Anncnbcrg 
Auditorium this week. 
Noted pianist john Van Buskirk, artist-in-residence ofthe Southern Vermont Art Center, performs twice. An 8:00p.m. Sunday concert, 
a solo performance, includes works by Liszt, Schubert, and Prokofiev. 
Buskirk makes his second ap­pearance as accompanist to soprano Angelo D' Antuoho. The 8: 1 5 p.m. Tuesday performance includes works of Handel, Satie, and de Falla. Admission to each ofthe concerts is 
52, S 1 for senior citizens. 
The Snite Museum is featuring a collection ofphotography titled "Life: The First Decades." This is an excellent exhibit depicting the his­tory ofthe publication's award­winning photography. 
Support the football team at the 
tlnal pep rally at Stepan Center 
tonight at 7:00 
, , , Molinelli 
enough or not perverse enough." 
This year's book is titled "Don't Make a Right." It contains strips from Michael's third and fourth years. Some of the strips arc about Mic­hael's experiences as a N.D. student abroad. The titles and short prefaces to his books, Michael made explicit, are purely optional. "It's tine if you must want to read the cartoons, it's up to the reader." 1think the titles are interesting. Michael was hesitant about "hitting anyone over the head with a supposed meaning," but he did say that as far as both titles have something to do with travel, thev are 
about transition, to college and from college to the "real world." What I liked about the titles is precisely the way they lend themselves to so At the Movies 
The Godfather-Part I, Friday 7:00 and 10:00-Engineering Auditorium. Marlin Brando, Robert DeNiro, and james Caan star in this classic about the Mafia. 
Late Autumn, Friday, 7:30p.m. -Memorial Library Auditorium. A japanese tllm, English sub-titles. 
The Quiet Man, Saturday, 7, 9:15, 11:30 p.m.-Engineering Auditorium. john Wayne and Maureen O'Hara star in a tale involv­ing an ex-boxer called on to defend his girl's honor. 
Best Boy, Sunday, 7:00p.m. ­O'Laughlin Auditorium -SMC. Tickets S2 a person; SS per family. (Public reception at 6:00p.m.) 
The African Queen, Monday, 9:00p.m. Stepan Center. Humphrey Bogart and Katherine Hepburn (need we say more?) star in the sto ofa tine English lady and a seasoned sailor and a boat. 
complained about grades to three different teachers in one hour." 
The university does its part 

to nurture this atmosphere of legend. All this business about 
Humor
Fr. Hesburgh being such a 
globetrotter is just a ploy to get alumni to cough up money to build more buildings. All those pictures ofhim you see in the newspapers shaking hands with Reagan and Gandhi and other hotshots are made in town at a novelty shop. In reality, he justs sits in his office all day (and night) waiting for students to stop by. 
Some more good ones are the library stories. I'm sure every stu­
dent here has heard the explanations for the 14th floor. "It's where 
Ted takes alumni to get them drunk and pick their pockets. The 
priests have wild parties up there all the time. lfyou look up late a 
night you can sec the strobes and hear the music." What the Ad­
ministration really does is tell the alumni it is a special student cen­
ter. They then pocket the money that would have been used to build 
something there and go to the Virgin Islands for a few Christmases. 
The third floor is another mystery. No one knows what is there, 
but speculation abounds. Actually, there isn't one. They couldn't get 
any rich people to have their names put on one ofthose plaques, so 
they just blew it off. 
Once in a while the University outdoes itself in some irrational way which provokes flurries ofsecond-guessing about the sanity of the Administration. The rugby team incident was a good example. Or how about the banning of mass assassins "because ofdangers to mental health?" Nice, fellahs! Dean Roemer is purported to wield god-like power (depending on his sense ofhumor, I may soon find out). I've never seen him bend steel with his bare hands, or devour a parietals breaker alive, but do you notice how the Administration never denies it? 
The students do their share ofgossip mongering. One tidbit that some people I know have been kicking around recently involves a supposed passage in DuLac that says if your room mate dies, you get an automatic 3.6 for the semester. Laugh If you want, but if your room mate is a pre-med, I'd tlnd out where the scissors arc fast. 
Gays in Howard is a good one. just because three people went on 
national television many years ago, a whole hall is branded 
homosexual for the rest ofeternity. Look it up in DuLac. Being gay's 
against the rules. Do you think that stuff' really goes on? C'mon, get 
serious! 
Kelations between the sexes is always a lively topic. For a girl, one night in a male dorm is probably good for a starring tole in a porn flick, according to some males. For guys, being seen with more than two girls is being a flirt, with one and you're whipped, none and either a) you're gay b)you're too hung up on your macho selfimage to deign to ask out a fat Notre Dame girl, or c) you're too insecure and probably won't make any money anyway. 
Why is this school a hot bed offabrication, speculation, and rumor 
passing? Probably because the people here don't have anything bet­
ter to do. If the University would only allow kegs on campus and 
sponsor baby oil parties on the quad, all our problems would be 
solved, I swear. 
many possible meanings. "On the Road to Selling Out" could be about selling youself to that "real world" or it could be a hopeful reference to the subsequent success of the book. "Don't Make a Right" could mean don't follow the "right" path oflife, 
sometimes venture the road not 
taken, or it could have something to 
do wit the idea that two wrongs 
don't make a right. What do two 
books make? It's up to you. They ar available in both the N.D. and St. 
Mary's bookstores, through both the Alumni Club and the book publish­ing class. Or in a bookstore in 
Briarcliff, N.Y. ( :vtolinclli's hometown) where only two copies have been sold. That seems the right 
amount for our book. 
-
The Observer Friday, November 6, 1981 -page 12 

•

Sports Brie!§ I 
Friday, November 6, 1981 -page 13
' 
II\ /I>!' 1J/JS<'I'I'<'I' aml//.w .lssuciutetll'ress 
Rich Hunter's Notre Dame soccer team completes its 
Bobby Knight and Digger Phelps.will 
ll)H I season with a match at Louisville tomorrow afternoon at .2. The 
speak to Notre Dame students, discuss basketball and take questtons Irish, now 1">-4-3 on the season, will f;H:e a tough Cardinal squad that 
in a benefit for The Observer Landon Turner Fund. Turner, the has improved its record from 6-<J in 1980 to 9-5-2 this year. The 
Hoosiers' star forward, was left paralyzed by an auto accident in July. game will be played as a preliminary to the Louisville football game 
The two coaches will be in the Engineering Auditorium Monday, at Parkway tlt:ld. -The Obsen,er 
November 9 at 10 p.m. Donations for the fund are always welcome. Make checks payable to The Observer-Landon Turner Fund P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46';56 -The Obsen1er 
Notre Dame'swomen's volleyball team ended its season 
·at 16-22 last night as it split a pair of matches on the road at Lake Michigan College. The Irish defeated Southwestern Michigan Col­lege in two sets ( I ';-1 0 and I S-7 ). but fell to host Lake Michigan by scores of 1-I"> and H-I 5. -Tbe Observer 
WBA Champion Michael Spinks defends his light­heavyweight title tomorrow afternoon against Vonzell Johnson in a I ">-round bout at the Playboy Casino in Atlantic City. Spinks, brother of former heavyweight champ Leon Spinks, is making his t1rst 
The Notre Dame wrestling team opens its defense since he won the WBA title from Eddie Mustafa Muhammad season this Saturday with a takedown tournament at Huntington in a july 18 decision. The St. Louis native is undefeated in 17 pro College. The open meet will enable Head Coach Bro. joe Bruno to outings. This is johnson's second opportunity at the title-last Feb. sn· many of his wrestlers in action, instead of only one per weight 28, he was TKO'd in the I I th round by WBC champ Matthew Saad dass. Bruno says that the team is very young and that the tournament Muhammad. The fight will be nationally televised by CBS. -AP will help him construct a starting lineup for November tournaments at Michigan State, Michigan and Concordia. -The Observer 
The Saint Mary'svolleyball team split two matches last
Once again, Digger Phelps will open up his team's 
night at the Angela Athletic Facility. The Belles defeated Lakt· Forest s1.:rimmage tomorrow morning to the general public from 9:30 to 
College in straight sets ( I 5-I I, I">-">). but dropped the nightcap to St. 1 1 ::~0. All are invited to come watch the Irish, who open up their 
Joseph's (Ind.), the defending Division II champions, I 0-1 "> and 12­19H 1-82 campaign two weeks from tonight with an exhibition game 
1S. According to Coach Erin Murphy, the Belles, now 12-13 on the with the Czechoslovakian National Team. At the scrimmage, dona­
year, should receive a bid on Sunday for the state tournament to be tions will be accepted for The Observer-Landon Turner Fund. 
held later this month. -The Observer The Obsen1er 

Eastern Conference Atlantic Division 
w L Pet. GB Ph1ladelph1a 4 0 1.000 Boston 2 t .667 t.S New York t 2 333 2.5 New Jersey 0 3 .0 35 Washington 0 3 .0 3.5 
Central Division DetrOit 3 0 t.OOO lnd1ana 2 .667 Milwaukee 2 t .667 
t 
Atlanta 2 .333 2 Cleveland 2 .333 2 Chicago 3 .250 2.5 
Western Conference ·~-­Midwest Division w L Pet. GB 
San Antomo 3 .750 Denver 2 .667 .5 Utah 2 1 .667 .5 Houston 2 2 .500 1 KansasC1ty 2 333 1.5 Dallas 3 .250 2 
Psclflc Division Portland 4 0 1.000 Phoenix 2 2 500 2 San D1ego 1 .500 2 Los Angeles 2 .333 2.5 
Seattle 2 .333 2.5 Golden State 3 .250 3 
Yesterday's Results Detroll109. New Jersey 103 Milwaukee 98. Wash1ngton 90 Utah 110. Golden State 101 PhoeniX t2t. Dallas 93 
Tonight's Gsmeo lnd1ana at Boston Atlanta at Ph1ladelph1a Detroit at Washington San D1ego at Ch1cago New York at Dallas Houston at Kansas C1ty Phoemx at Los Angeles Utah at Portland Denver at Seattle 
See BOARD, page 15 
..\·.  •-h~:~>,•\1 .u:s m,Js· n~ re. ~1\'t·., 1. ~ ~~:· ~­m  1wo ,,d.,.:, pr·v• t.J U1t!  
· .,~·''  ·• \.._,, ._t• 111"  ,.·  .., t~•n  The OtJ~e"'"'' uthce wdl tHt:c~l cl.t::.sd.eds  
\\,,..,:_11  :t•r•,lt..j 1! ffql.l  10 OG ,, r1·  To~ 00 p rT1  An cla.:iSIIIt!db "'lUSt be:  
;-NOTlCtS~ ! L...­·~~----------... ..__.J USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED . SAT SUN 9-7 CASPERSON. 1303 BUCHANAN AD . NILES  THOMAS E ACCETA I found your wallet ! See Carlos. off1ce 340 CCMB bnng some I. D. please. reward$ 50.·· lost on campus bank note 1000 German Marks: 1! found please call 8348  RIDE NEEDED TO MILWAUKEE on Nov 13 call Dan at 8693 Beware! The System lurks 1n dark cor­ners, where the shade of Moose Control has been known to wander!  NEED GA GT PLEASE CALL CHRIS 4392 SMC Have 2 GA Tech Gas for sale. Call Melinda at 8031. FOR SALE · 4 Ga. Tech GAs-Call 3485  Happy Birthday Karen We1ssmann. Notre Dames oldest llvmg bandswomanl Love. VA GP-ERS DO IT WITH ORGANONSI ND-SMC SENIOR WOMEN MASS SUNDAY NOV 8 -11 am. REGINA  DEAR MOM and DAD. The weather has been lovely and I have a seven handicap as of last week. I never knew college could be so strenuous I w111 let you know about Thanksg1v1ng plans soon I hope all IS well w1th the Doolins 10 Dyer and the Mulflurs 1n Cape Coral Love,  
USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought. sold. searched ERASMUS BOOKS. Tues-Sun, 12-6 1027 E. Wayne (One block south of Eddy· Jefferson Intersec­tion)  LOST: Round gold p1n w1th 101tals TFA lost somewhere 1n McCandless Hall area at Sa1nt Mary·s. Great sentimental value. Call 4-1-4055.  I '·  FOR SALE, 4 GEORGIA TECH GA'S. 50 YARD LINE. BEST OFFER. CALL PAUL 8509. GENESIS TIX FOR SALE---FOUR  HALL SENIOR CLASS RETREAT -SUNDAY NOV 8 -3 PM TO 6 PM MONROE HALL IF INTERESTED. CON· TACT KATHLEEN -4600 SMC OR BARB-8124ND  Joe Hey. Northwestern want to trade QB s? S1gned. The people(GISM) you don t see out on the field trymg to pia y  
OVERSEAS JOBS -Summer/year round. Europe. S Amer Australia, As1a All f1elds $500-$1200 monthly. Sightsee­Ing Free 1nfo Wnte IJC. Box 52-IN-4. Corona Del Mar. CA 92625. Part-lime help. Good money oppor­tunity Male or female needed 5-9 weekmghts to phone potential sub­scnbers $3 35/hr plus commiSSIOns Call277-5448. noon·4 p.m LOGAN CENTER VOLUNTEERS Rec starts thiS Saturday at 10.30 mstead of the usuat9·00 srnce we are gorng to the loot­ball game  LOST: A dark brown. Angora baby s hat between the Memotal Lrbrary and the Huddle on Monday 11/02/81 $5 Reward I Please call62181 LOST! TWO CAMERAS. VIVITAR w/INI­TIALS T A M and 35 mm KONACA. PLEASE CALL 4688 SMC IF FOUND. AT LEAST RETURN THE FILM -IT'S lA· REPLACABLE THANKS LOST TI30CALCULATOR IN FRONT OF BUSINESS AD BUILDING CALL JIM 8658 LOST. Gold & Black STING baseball jacket leh on Alumni bench at Dillon­ FORSALE-4Ga TechGAs-Call3485 GENESIS TIX FOR SALE-..POUR GOOD SEATS FOR THE NOV 17TH GENESIS SHOW ARE AVAILABLE. CALL KEN AT 8350-ANYTIME T!CKtiS Penn St ticket wanted please call Donna at6771  GENESIS TICKETS FOR SALE---GOOD SEATS CALL 8350 ANYTIME WILL PAY MEGA BUCKS FOR TICKETS TO ROLLING STONES CONCt:RT IN CHICAGO CONTACT MICK AT 4215 Desperately need 3 Georg1a Tech GAs Please help R1ta Call41-4522  BOBBY KNIGHT AND DIGGER PHELPS Monday n1ght at 10 pm 1n the Eng1neer· rng Audtonum to beneftl The Observer­Landon Turner Fund. Brought to you by Alumn1 and St Ed s Halls Be there You thought Rodney Dangerf1eld got no respect' How about Mary Jane Rafferty? This Saturday w111 mark her 21st birthday and she still has never been k1ssed (no wonder--look who she goes out w1th!) Anyway grve thrs gtrl a lrtlle respect and stop by 210 Pasquenlla West thiS weekend Both ol you w1ll be glad you did  SECTION 3-C PROUDLY PRESENTS THE AMAZING SPECTACULAR. OVER-SEXED. TRANSOM MAN! COME SEE HIM APPEAR OUT OF THE TRAN· SOM OF ROOM 379 IN DILLON HALL AT t 30 A.M THIS SATURDAY NIGHT BRING RITZ CRACKERS AS NEXT TO o'VERWEIGHT FRESHMAN GIRLS. THESE ARE HIS FAVORITE 0 K Rah Rah. I don 1th1nk you re antiSO· Ctal I must have mrstudged you or you wouldn t have written back Ill d1d. then be SOCIAL and come VISit me! TYPING! Fast, accurate typ1ng at  
The Soc1ety for Credllve Anachromsm IS comrng to lhrs campus Watch for rt! GRAPPLERS! NOTRE DAME PRO WRESTLING FAN CLUB Presents A N1ght at the F1ghts! at IRISH COUNTRY. FRIDAY N1ghtl Be there or DON'T BREAK STAN HANSEN's NECK!  Alumni football game Nov 4 Has No. 28 and 1n111als S.G on ft Please call Chns at 1178 I love that 1acket . FOR RENT ;L-.---­____, __ ­__,j UGLY DUCKLING RENT A CAR FROM $7 95 A DAY & WEEKEND SPECIALS  HELP!!!ILL DEFINITELY KILL MYSELF IF I DON T GET SEVERAL GEORGIA TECHGA S!!!I!PLEASE SAVE MY LIFE-­-CALL 1009 Need ux for Penn State. Call Stan. 3006 or 3008 DESPERATELY NEED tickets to PSU game Will buy outnght and/or trade lor a nde to PSU Call Fran at 4385 aher 6PM  S.. Is he huggable? L L. Personally. I cant wa1t to l1nd out! S S.&L ABSOLUTELY' A E B To our tavorrte arr commander from Dillon-HI TOM I-Now you can wnte your. mother Love the lawnmg g1rls from Sal nrte  HAPPY 21ST M J! Now you can buy Charhe s b ouzr tor hrm. rf he ever dnnks any The Cowboys are still a bunch of wrmps. too Have a great weekend! QUOTE OF THE WEEK No. 2: ROCK, WHY IS IT BLUEIIIII My dea1 Philosopher. How delightful to hear from you aga1n I would be glad to meet w1th you So lew  reasonable rates Call Lynn Saylor. 233· 3423 YOU MAKE IT HAPPEN! GIVE TO UNITED WAY NOV 1-8 FAIR SHARE $2 00 OR MORE SEE YOUR SECTION LEADER WANTED Part·T1me Waitress Apply 1n person ONLY lrom 12 lo 7PM 130 D1X1eway S South Bend SHANGHAI RESTAURANT  
....... ~.-­1-.-. . t·..,~V.w ~/ i'..._;\..,;;\1-J -·_____.,.___ ----------~ LOST AE·1 CANON CAMERA DURING USC WEEKEND IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 2968 REWARDIII LOST One Mam1ya flash attachment near LMans Hall on Halloween mght If lound please call 4379 at SMC  AVAILABLE. CALL 259-8459 ROOMMATE WANTED to sharP a com­pletely furmshed apt (Inc CABLE TV) close to N D call Dave at 283-1 1 ,g FURNISHED APARTMENT FOR RENT 2 Bedrooms, carpeted. pnvatc ~~ntrance n1ce neighborhood near bus 1erm1nat $250 per month. mcludmg ut1li11eS Call Bob. 287-9003. a~er 4 30  please!'! I NEED 2 GAS FOR GA TECH WILL PAY BUCKS. CALL JOE 8866 Wanted GA Tickets, PENN STATE. Call Pat8892 need 2 Georg1a Teen IIX Call Colleen 4-1­4908 WANTED TWO GEORGIA TECH GAS CALL TIGHE AT 232-25 78  THE ZAHM COFFEEHOUSE IS OPEN EVERY THURSDAY FOR YOUR EXIS­TENTIAL PLEASURE. OFFERING THE FINEST IN LIVE ENTERTAINMENT. COFFEE, TEA, HOMEMADE DONUTS, FREE POPCORN AND PAT GALLAG· HER. COME DOWN AND SEE IF OUR PROFESSIONAL CONVER­SATIONALISTS ARE PAID ENOUGH. 9-12 EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT, ZAHM BASEMENT.  people want to see me these days--they all want to meet that hrgh-and-mrghly goody-two·shoes who wont let you see hiS lace What a coward' You d lh1nk he was ugly or something Well. I have no· thrng to fear from such a rneetrng so let me know when you d like to gel together Most smcerely yours. EVIL The ghost ol Halloween past w11i haunt me forever 1f 1 do not get some Georg1a ux!  A E B Absolutely what? S &L Logan Bowling Volunteers Keep up the sp1nt and the smart com­ments because they make the weeki Ob­viously you St Ed s guys have not been out w1th g~rls much but by the end of the year we w11lteach you REAL manners Much love. The pseudo bowlmg leader  
1ost-11ght brown tweed sports tackel at the Reg1na screw· your-roommate The name of John Mesmer IS on the 1ns1de lln1ng II lound call 8892 or return to 1 15 Zahm  MALE ROOMMATE NEEDED FOR FUR· NISHED APARTMENT $1t0/MONTH UTILITIES PAID 287·5469  DESPERATELY need 1 student 11ckel and 2 G.A s tor GA TECH Call Doug 1057 Need PSU 11ckets Call232-9596  JO LAVERTY Al1as MoJo A1der What w1ll1t be-shotgun or hump? P S GET A REAL EXISTENCE ZOMBIE WOMAN' For t1ps on long term comlortable car stulf1ng call the Ga1nSv111e goddesses at  Please call 1947 and ·Save me from an etern1ty ol ghouls. ghosts. goblins witches. and grubby tnck-or*treaters w1th the tummyache  section 34 says thank you lo all the g~rls that made our Saturday a touch1ng ex­penance see you for the GA tech game Martha . I want you to know that I st1ll respect you. hopefully we II do 11 aga1n  
Found A bracelet In Lyons Hall d~er Sal nile Halloween party call7865 to 1dent1fy  UJf' ;\ ·.'\: ·.Y'.r. "\..". ~ ...­ HELP' NEED 1 G A FOR TECH PLEASE CALL 312o  GEORGIA  41-5236. Love that Mo Jo - golla Love her - no  anachronism n  d person or th1ng that IS  somet1me LUV J P 11 wasn I us, JBY!  
Lost d SOLID STATE ELECTRONICS BOOK BY Streetman Please call 8330 and ask tor Jay ltos111 1n Hayes-Healy I c.annot replace th1s bOok please return 11 LOST ONE TAN WALLET SATURDAY APPROX t t 00 AM IF FOUND CALL JIM AT x8286 REWARD IF FOUND  ~-----­RIDE NEEDED TO LONG ISLAND FOR THANKSGIVING" CAN LEAVE AS EAR· LV AS MONDAY AFTERNOON WILL SHARE USUAL CALL PHIL AT 8278 Need a nde to Champa1gn. II. on Fnday 6 Would hke to return on Saturday 7 Please  NEED 4 GA PENN ST TIX CALL PERRY AT 287-6381 AFTER 6 PM NEED PENN STATE Tl)(.. , or 2 GAs or STUDENT CALLJOHN 1947 I NEED 1 TICKET TO GENESIS CON· CE AT' MUST BE 1ST OR 2ND ROW CALL3122  choice What does Sus1e Vasta plus Road fnp to Flortda 1ead to shots of course1 Who IS thai person behmd those Ben Frankl1n glasses? It's Pam Degnan' P S GET A REAL SET qF EYESII OUR HAPPY HOURS GET NO RESPECT lind out why K of C 4 pm Fnday  chronologically out ol ntace ex A tmopsk1rt IS an anachron1sm 1n a dtsco 11 sa once 1n a Yukon chance' The Phone Ryan Express will run for a hm1ted t1mc only Nov 8-9 Don 1 moose th1s oppor· tuntty' n 'System TO THE SWEETIES IN 320 MORRIS­ Rodney. your t1x cost too d ·· much How bout some respect lor us? Maney ltmes the wall has howled. but never as se)( starved as the Boone s farm wolfyl Beware of people whose nam&s end 1n E  
LOST! a se1k0 gold wnst watch-before break If lound cal13 1 221or reward' FOUND One key w11h large key nng Call  call Pat-8601 lacuny w1fe of 1ntermed1ate abilitY lookmg lor racketball partners Call Carol Wilken at 233-3684  I STILL need some TECH GAs lor Sat .. II you can help. please call JE$$. 8659 Need 4 GAs for Georg1a Tech Call Norb  FIRST DEGREE KNIGHTS the THIRD DEGREE IS Sunday call 7018 for 1nformal10n transportat1on IS provtded  SEY Because Momssey guys are No 1 Heres hop1ng your lives bnng you BUCK­ETS of tun' Lots of Love  Dean. Break a leg ton1ght and dunng tile rest ol tile run I m sure you'll do great' Mon1C8  
IA1ke at 8567to cta1m  Need nde 10 Cleveland for Thanksg1v1ng  at8862  SHOW SOMEONE YOU'CARE WITH A  Leanne M1chelle  For a good ume call Debb1e 5 784 ( SMC)  
FOUND bracelet 1n Pasquenlla East restroom on t 0-31 Call87791o descnbe  Call John at 8450  WANTED 2 GEORGIA TECH GAS CALL 259·8194  MONTH OF FLOWERS A BOUQUET OF FRESH FLOWERS DELIVERED  HERES TO SISTER AND BROTHERS  Where s the redhead?  
Need nde to Cedar RapidS. Iowa for T­ EVERY 4 WEEKS. VASE INCLUDED IN  LINDA  TOM  and GABE  Thanks for  a  
FOUND Two Rodney Dangerlleld TiCk­ets Call 3175 and 1dent1ly seats'  glvlng Can leave after ltam on Weds Please call L1sa at 8160  wanted 3 g a.s to Georg1a Tech call Mary at 3766  THE FIRST DELIVERY. WEDNESDAYS FLOWERS 289-1211  great season' The Schnapps was great! THE BARITONES  To The Mad Flasher" magaz1nes! Flashed  11 must be those  

! ' . ~ The Observer-Sports Friday, November 6, 1981 -page 14 
-_... 
a matchup between two offootball's most mature players -Chargers 
an
SUBDAY MASSJIS A! SACBJID BJIAB! 
receiver Charlie Joiner and Bengals
CBURCB .. 
cornerback Ken Riley. ·Both are in their 13th seasons.
Masses are for Sunday, Bovember 8 
Both are 34. Both are masters of th~.ir. respective positions and both
8:18 PM Saturday Rev. David B. Schlaver, C.S.C. 
were friends when they played to­gether at Cincinnati.
9:00 AM Sunday Rev. Francis Cafarelli, C.S.C 
joiner, traded to San Diego after the 1975 season by Cincinnati, cur­rently is the second leading receiver 
10:80 AM Sunday Rev. Richard McBrien 
11:18 PM Sunday Rev. David :1. Schlaver, c.s.c. 
in the National Football League 797 yards on 41 receptions.
7:18 PM Vespers Rev. Richard McBrien 
Under the Chargers' system, Joiner lines up from several posi-

By virtue of its 2-1 loss at Bowling Green yesterday, the Notre Dame soccer team was eliminated from playoff contention. The Irish finish their season tomorrow at Louisville. (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
anyone. "He'll probably be my man, more than likely," said Riley, called "The Rattler" by his teammates. 
"He Uoiner) and Ken Riley are in the same mold," Chargers Coach Don Coryell said in a telephone in­terview Wednesday. "He keeps going and playing well." 
The Bengals made a point of not discussing Joiner's age during preparations this week. 
"Don't ever insult the older guys," said Bengals Coach Forrest Gregg. "I remember when I was a mature foot­ball player and someone told me I was old, it was like waiving a red flag Bengals played the Chargers after Joiner was traded. 
"We kind of eased up a little and 
he really made us look bad. So now, 
if I've got a chance to hit him, I'll hit 
him. He'll take advantage of you if 
you don't" 
"Now he's more experienced as 
far as running patterns. He's clever. 
He's got quick feet, and he studies 
defensive backs. He tries to set you 
up in a position to get you off 
balance. He's real good against zones 
because he reads defenses so well," 
Riley said. 
i 
I. --~ 
MELODY ALARM WATCH THAT PLAYS A FULL MINUTE OF THE IRISH FIGHT SONG. 
Set the alarm to play the Victory March .. to remind you of the start of the game or JUSt press to play at any time. 
Order it now to wear to your next alumni party. A perfect gift for that staunch NO fan you know. LCD digital watch available in men·s style, white or yellow gold. Lighted display. 24 hr. alarm. 
Manufacturer's 1 yr. warranty. Satisfaction guaranteed-if this product isn·t everything you expect, simply return it in new condition within 30 days for complete refund. 
Order today. Indiana residents add 4 )1o sales tax. Send check or money order or VISA/Mastercharge numbers and expiration dates. Dealer inquiries invited. Allow 8-10 weeks for delivery. 






N.D."VICTORY 




What tho' the odds be great or small, Old No -tre Dame will Win ov -·er 

all, 

The Observer -Sports Friday, November 6, 1981 -page 15 
Faust's bodyguard 
Paul Harvey casts giant shadoW" 
ByLYNLEONE team. "fans arc great," he says, "but 24, and Paula, 12. Paul had seriously .\jwrts lf/riter in thdr enthusiasm they ~omerimes consiJered returning w finish his t<>rgt·t that the coaches have a job to college degree when a wonderful 
There is one particularly enor­do." opportunity came along, allowing mous person who runs out on the This "labor of lovt·." as Harvey him w become owner-operator of tlt:ld with the football tc.:am at each calls it, began under former coach the McDonald's franchise located at game, who mans the sidelines Dan Devine. At that time he was a M 1 39 in Benton Harbor, Michigan. during the game. but who never local policeman who offered his Those who know Paul know him suits up. He is big enough to bl' a services to Devine out offriendship. as a big man with an even bigger fi>otball player for the pros, let alone Devine felt that Harvey would be a hear£. Paul has befriended, or as he for Notre Dame. Who is that man great asset to tht: team. As Devine calls it, "adopted" countless num­casting a giant shadow behind pur it, "The greatest prerequisite for bers of people and has served as a Coach Gerry faust? his job was his great love for the kids. source of inspiration and help to 
lie is Paulllarvey (no, not the Paul Ofcourse, Paul's enormous size was many. As Faust puts it, "Paul is a Harvey of radio fame), a former cc.:rtainly one considerable at-quality person with a great loyalty to South Bend policeman who serves tribute." the University of Notre Dame and to a~ team security agent. He prefers The new Faust regime has main-our football players and program ­not to be rl'ferred to as a "body rained the "old guard." Faust said he he is also a successful person who guard" though his role is somewhat had seen Paul "performing his has a strong interest in his fellow similar. As Harvey tells it, his main service" on the sidelines before and human beings." A popular affec­function is to hdp Faust gl·t through reccived such high recommenda-tionate nickname for Paul is "Big the crowds and find egress lO his tion from both Devine and the Uni-Mac," which really says it all. 
versity Administration that "Paul Harvey is an example of someone seemed to be the ideal person to who came from a very poor South help in this situation." Harvey Bend family who was helped and in­remembers that when he met Faust spired by many great people. One for the first time Faust said,"You're person in particular Paul is proud to bigger than they told me" and then mention is Ed Smothers, who was in­gave him a big "bear hug." strumental in making sure Paul got Amazingly enough, as much as to college: "Ed bought the plane 

• • • Board 
Paul loves football -especially ticket -I will never forget him for t\iotrl" Dame football and the "kids" that and I can only hope to continue -he was actually a local basketball to impart that great spirit of love to star. lie played for the South Bend all my friends." Central High School team that gar-To list Paul's friends, his "adoptive nered that school's only two state family," bn·omes a litany of Who's 

continuedfrom page 14 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL CONFERENCE championships in 1953 and in 1957. Who at Notre Dame: Larry East Paul was named All-State and Dell Schumacker, Tom Gatewood. Cliff
w L T Pet. PF PA 

7 2 0 778 214 181 Sports :\-lagazine All-American, being Brown, John Shumate, Willard, Jim­7 2 0 778 197 129
Dalla• 
Phtladelphta ranked 7th out of the 500 p>ung my and Ross Browner, AI Hunter,
4 .556 171 147NY Gtants 5 0 

3 6 0 333 179 251 men chosen. Doug Gemmel, Wanda ,\1unti>rd.
St LOUIS 
Barry .\pencer ( 13). Notre Omm•'s neu•~v appointed center. skies
6 333 177

Washtngton 3 0 212 He later ventured out to Ventura Dave Waymer, Vagas Ferguson, Phil 
Central during a rebound drill at yesterday's Irish basketball practice. as 
5 4 0 556 205 218 Colk-ge in California where he Carter, Dave Duerson -and the list
M•nnesnta 
freshmen Oan Duff· ( 22J and Ron Rowan (24) and neu• u•alk-on 
163 138

Tampa Bay 5 4 0 .556 played for the t·ollegc basketball goes on. 
4 5 0 444 210 190 Gary Grasse_)' (21) took on. Tomorrow's Irish scrimmage will be 0 170 DetrOit 
team for two years bd(>re having to Paul Harvey continues to serve as 

Green 8d; 3 6 333 208 open tu the public. See .\jwrtsbriefs for details. (photo IJ)' Carrie 
Chtcago 2 7 0 .222 136 218 return home w South Bend to con-a great source of inspiration to all 
Weal Koplin)
valesce after a serious auto accident. who know him. Paul Harvey is
7 2 0 778 208 154San FranciSCO 

5 0 .556 263 172 Harvey since married his wife indeed a big man on the: tkld. And
Atlanta Loa Angeles 5 0 .556 214 193 Sharon anti ha:-two children: _M_t_.k_·t..·.__o_ff_._ 
7 0 222 108 204New Orleans 2 

AMERICAN CONFERENCE Eaat w L T Pet. PF PA M1anu 
6 2 1 722 213 162 
3 667 141

Buffalo 6 0 203 
4 4 1 500 191 209 New England 2 7 0 222 207 210 NY Jets 
The Best in
8 .111 298 Central 

Halttmortl 1 0 158 
Aged Steaks
176Ctnctnnat• 6 3 0 .667 228 

188 175Pt«sburgh 5 4 0 556 

120 N. Main Street 
4 5 0 444 163 194Cleveland 

Downtown. Mishawaka 
197Houston 4 5 0 444 159 

Well KansasCtty 6 3 0 667 227 185 
255-7737 
San Otego 6 3 0 667 275 207 
for reservations
129Denver 6 3 0 667 173 150Oakland 4 5 0 444 125 

Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. 
Seattlo 2 7 0 222 128 205 
Dinner 5:00P.M. Clo!>ed Sunday~ & Holiday!> 
Sunday's Gomes DetrOit dt Washtngton Mtamt at New England Now York Gtants vs Green Bay at Mtlwaukee Oak land at Houstot Phtladelphta at St Louts Tampa Bay at Mtnnesota Chtcago at Kansas Ctly Atlanta at San Franctsco Ctnctnnatt at San Otego 
u 
Film Club o_fNotre Dame u
Cleveland at Denver New Orleans at Los Angeles N Y Jots at Balttmore 
presents 
Ptttsburgh at Seattle Monday's Game 
[] John Ford's []
Bullalo at Dallas (n) 
[] THE QUIET MAN []
HOCKEY 

' -:;, r, '•'. • ' •• ~"! .' · ,.:' "t· r.: ),•, •• lf=." 
u u
NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE 
Top 16 teom• quality lor playoHs 

w L T GF GA Pta Edmonton 10 4 0 77 54 20 Boston 8 2 3 55 43 
19 

u u
N Y ISIHndors 8 1 3 49 36 M1nnesota e 
2 2 54 31 18 Monlrodl 7 2 4 73 36 
18 

Quebec. 9 6 0 71 62 lA 
19 u []
Ph•ladelphta 8 4 1 52 53 17 Bulldlo 6 3 4 45 41 
16 66 62 15 PLttsburgh 6 7 2 52 62 14 W1nntpey 6 3 2 54 •5 14 
Ch•cago 5 3 5 
14 Ward Bond, Victo.-Mclaglen, Jack McGowran 
Derro11 6 5 2 55 49 Vdncouver 5 7 3 45 47 13 · Beautifully filmed i• ·eland, John Ford's rollicking and Lns Angeles 6 8 0. 66 74 12 
NY Rangers 5 9 0 44 63 10 cheerful classic tell f an ex-boxer, having accidently[] St LOUIS 4 8 2 57 66 10 killed an opponent :he ring, who returns to his native
[]
Toronto 3 8 2 55 66 8 
Galway to seek · ·~· He courts and weds a fiery-
Calgarv 2 8 4 44 63 8 Hdrtlord 1 6 ; 38 50 7 tempered, red-hec #oman who can't understand his 
Culurado 2 8 2 33 56 6 
C 
refusal to fight or' :nts him to defend her honor and[]
Wasl1tnqton I 12 (J 37 63 2 
retrieve her dowry ghtin9 her bully squire of a brother. 
Yell• · >ey'a R ..uno The film is filled wb armth and merriment and peopled Boston 2 Vancouvtu : 
by the whole comp<. of delightful Ford character actors.
DW•)tt 10. Los Anqel~~ 2 New York Ranger& 6 Pntladelphta 2 Montr~al 4 St Louts 3 
Tonight'a Games Ch•cago at W•nOip(.)g r,)ronto at Colorado 





The Observer-Sports Friday, November 6, 1981 -page 16 

Holmes defends WBC title tonight 
PITTSBURGH (AP) Larry Charles in the seventh round ofthei~ Holmes, who says, ''I've got to keep third meeting. busy," defends the World Boxing Holmes is such a prohihitive 
Council heavyweight title here favorite that there is no betting line. tonight against Renaldo Snipes. At the official weigh-in yesterdav. Holmes' 1 1 th defense will bring Holmes was introduced as the him S1.1 million. A 12th defense. heavyweight champion of the against top-ranked Gt:rry Cooney in world. "The baddest heavyweight March, would earn him $10 million. champion of the world." shouted Because of the money involved. !'<'1c:-:•·s. "!'II knock him out., Holmes said some people advised The pro1;1~Jters are hopeful of a him to wait for Cooney. crowd of at kast 12,000 --ticket 
"I've got to stay in shape," said prices range from S200 dnwn to S20 Holmes. "I'm not going to wait from -t(Jr rhe bout. which will be june to March to fight.'' televised by ABC. Part of the live Holmes' last fight was June 12 in telecast, from 9 p.m.-11 p.m. EST, Detroit against Leon Spinks. He won will be a scheduled I 0-round on a third-rbund knockout, making heavyweight bout between .\1ichael his record 38-0, with 28 knockouts. "Dynamite" Dokes, rankt·d second 
So, just three days past his 32nd by the WBC and fourth by the World birthday, Holmes, ofEaston. Pa., will Boxing Association, and George defend against the 25-year-old Chaplin. 
Snipes, of Yonkers, N.Y., who has an Four other ranked heavyweights unblemished, but not undisputed will appear in tO-rounders on the record. card -Randy "Tex" Cobb, ranked 
The fight at the I7,000-seat Civic sixth by the WBC; Bernardo Mer­Arena will be the first heavyweight cado, rated No. 9 by the WBC; Tom­
Washington Capitol defenseman Timo Blom­Washington fired General Manager Ma.Y McNab 
title fight in Pittsburgh sinceJuly 18, my "Franco" Thomas, ranked eighth
quistfa/ls overhisgoaltender, Mike Palmateer, in wul Head Coach Gary Green after losing 12 of 
195 I, when Jersey Joe Walcott, a by the WBC and sixth by the WBA,
his team's 6-1 loss to Minnesota on Wednesclav theirfirst 13 games this season. (AP photo) 
six-to-one underdog, won the cham· andJimmy Young, listed lOth by the
night, the Caps' II th straight loss. Yesterclc~j,, 
pionship by knocking out Ezzard WBC. 
At Moeller 

PINOCCHIO'S PIZZA PARLOR 
•

-Hours Fast Delivery Service 
Winning continues, mtnus Gerry
Mon-Thurs 11 am-12 pm 
277-4522 
Fri-Sat 11 am-1 :30 am Sun 4 pm-11 pm 


CINCINNATI (AP) -It's the day before an important game with an. 
undefeated upstate rival, and Moel­ler High School football Coach Ted 

-Beer Specials 

Every Nite 8:00-10:00 
Bacigalupo is running lare. A year ago. he was defensive coor­

$1.75 Pitcher $.50 Mug 
dinator under Gerry Faust. He didn't have to worry abour the stacks of




-HAPPY HOUR 
message~ or constant telephone calls inquiring about tickets for one
Mon-Fri 4 pm-6 pm 
of the mosr closely watched high
Fri-Sat 8 pm-12 am 
school games in the state ofOhio.
4 ft wide screen TV 
E 
When Faust left to take the head coaching job at Notre Dame, the 13­
s

PLEASE-one coupon per pizza N ..mmon• 
year assistant assumed respon­sibility for a team considered by

his coupon good 1 This coupon good I #~~1
----------~------------~ 1r1 
some to be the best prep team in the 

tor one I tor one 1 ~<f'~~ ~ 
jWJiper 
nation. 
Others waited to see if the

LARGE PIZZA I MEDIUM PIZZA I (~ ~ 
program that Faust built almost

$1.00 OFF $.75 OFF

I I '~ 
~inglehandedly would start to
w

expires 11 ..30· -811 expires 1 1--·30· 811 
crumble without his charismatic 

-----------~------------...-~~!'!!!!!~!!!!~~~~ touch. It hasn't. While Notre Dame struggled,
RS SHOP 

Moeller won its first nine games of "Original designs with you in mind." the season, stretching its unbeaten streak to 41 games. The all-boys
lemans Hall Basement 284-5891 
Catholic school in suburban .\1onrgomery is given a good chanceEXTRA to win its sixth state championship 
in its last seven years. .. In the beginning, you knew there was !>omething missing," Bacigalupo



SMC JUNIOR MOMS 
said. ''You could just feel the dif­

weekend 

ference. Now we're three months in­specials to the season. and I think everyone
Nov. 13-14 has adjusted to Gerry's absence." 

NDJUNIOR PARENtS 
Haue roses--will sell Roses $12.00 doz. Rose-c-orsages $6.00 5 up Rose boutonniere $.2.00 long stem rc)setocarry $3.00 s up 
certain colors are limited--order early for choice 
Baby Breath included at no extra cost. 
COMPARE OUR lOW EVERYDAY PRICES 
Mon.-fri. 9:30-4:30 
Sat, 9-ll 

(dance weekends--all day 

The only visible reminder ofFaust is an out-of-focus photograph han­ging on the side of a soft drink machine in the Moeller locker room. It shows Faust walking through his ranks ofplayers on a field. 
Not that Faust's former team has forgotten him; Moeller players talk about him in almost reverent terms. But the players felt that they, too, had something to prove when the only football coach in Moeller his­tory moved on. 
"Everybody thought that without Mr. Faust, we were going down the 1ubes," said senior quarterback Mike Willging. ",He made a name for the school, but he wasn't Moeller foot­ball. It took a lot ofhard work but he wasn't the team." 
Faust enjoyed almost instant success at the Catholic school, opened in 1958. Its first varsity team went 9-1 under Faust, who ran up a 174-17-2 record while capturing several mythical national champion­ships. 
Part of the Faus·t mystique was his unabashed blend of toothall and religion. A devout Catholic. Faust would tel! his players to "say a Hail Mary" at crucial points of games. Rdigious pictures !{lend with in­sptrational signs and football gear 111 the locker room 
"Nothing has changed J.t all as tar as the prayer ~crvice~." \X'illging 
said. "Mr. Faust had a gn·at devotion 
to the Blessed Virgin. We still say our 
Hail Marys. Nothing has changed at 
all." 
Although not as outwardly 
religious as Faust, Bacigalupo has 
continued most ofthe traditions. He 
decided not to tinker with the 
program that bears Faust's imprint. 
"Gerry left things in very, very 
good condition," Bacigalupo said. 
"It was just a matter of filling tht· 
vacancies in the coaching levels and 
going on with what we've done in 
the past. The system we've used has 
been successful, and there's no 
reason to change." 
Moeller's freshman football team 
finished this season 7-0, and the 
reserve squad was undefeated after 
eight games. 
Bacigalupo will pick up the telephone to call South Bend when he's unsure of something. He and Faust talk a couple times a week. 
That closeness betwt:en the school and its former coach created a small stir when Faust returned to the Moeller locker room before a game this year. The team had ded­icated the game to Faust. but a Cin­cinnati newspaper raised the possibility that the visit volatcd NCAA recruiting rules. 
Bacigalupo refuses to discus:. the rnaner, saying it was blown out of proportion. Hut he acknowledges that "there's naturally going to be a do!>eness" between \1oeller and Faust, who has several former '\1oel­lcr players at Notre Dame. 
The Moeller players still talk .tbom FauM, although Willging said it'~ usually in the contt•xt <>f how the former coach is doing at Notre Dame. 
"I thought he was going ro dna lot bt·rter," Willging said of the ~iow Irish start ( ~-4 ). "But he will du well. This is not J. team that he recruitnl.'' 
With a -12-~ drubbing of highlr regarded Lakewood ~t. Fdward last \Veek. ,\1odkr needed just one more victorv ro dose out a perfect regular ~<"a,on. The 'tate·, comput<·r­matcheJ pla)·offs start th(:re.t.fier. 
'·People always ask Illt: huw I \\',mt to be compared to (,erry: 'An· you going to tn t•J do the same thing~ he did?' And my answer ha.~ alwavs been the ~oame: 'you're talking abo~r twu completely different per­sonalities."' Bacigalupo said. 
"I don't want to be compared to Gerry Faust. I don't think you can uJinpare anybody 10 Gerry Fausr." 



The Observer -Sports Friday, November 6, 1981 page 17 

Blair 1\iel ( 5) tl'ill need the kind ofprotection m•oid the interception prohlems he had against prol'ided here hv Phil Pozderac ( 71) in order to Georgia Tech last season. (photo byjohn /11acor) 
Key matchup 







Kiel passes, punts to Thurson 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Associute Sports l:'dilor 
Blair Kid and Tc:d Thurson wll fan·-off againM t·ach other c:vc:ry time: Notre: Dame: has the: balltomor­row. Ifthe Irish arc: unable: to pick up yardage, the two men will go at it again. As a cornerback, Thurson will ht· trying to pick-off Kid's passes, and as a punt returner, he'll he: trying to t1dd Kid's kkks. It will bt· the: match-up to watch. 
Kid has established himself in the 
last two week~ as Notre Dame's starting qurterhack. His pc:rfor­mancc:s against USC and Navy were: 
the hc:st of his carc:t·r. Not only did he: move the: team, he: avoidt·d his st·ason-long nt·mc:sis, interceptions. 
''I'm a lot more rdaxc:d now," he 
says. "I feel that I'm in control of the 
offense. I havt· more: contidencc: in 
my ability to kad this team." 
Part of that newly-found con­tldt·nn· comes from the: discovery hy Notre: Dame: of the: many taknts of split end joe: Howard. Several times last wc:c:k, Howard's ability w come bat·k after a pass turned medione throws by Kid into game­hrc:akc:rs. All in all. however, Kid's pc:rt(mnancc: was a 180-dc:grc:e turn­about from t·arlier this season. 
By the: same token, Thurson's gamt· is also coming around. Of his 
• • • Tech 

continuedfrom page .!0 
altt'f complc:ting I:\ of 2:\ attempts again~t :'llavy. lie:'~ got two top tar­gch in tight end Tony lluntc:r ( I 'J receptions li1r 2H6 yards) and SJ1l'l'd}" split l'lld .Joe Howard. Both _lohn Vlosley and Greg Bdl are 
playing winghad. with !he: number one unit. and though no auempt has hn·n made to 1hrow 10 either tlw p;l.,l two g<~llll'S, olknsin· coor­dinator Tom Lll luenherg insi'L' thl· pos111on is an l'sscntial pan ,,f \otrc IJ.unc'' rassmg pl.m 
'It• llol !hal \\<'·n ddlll<::llt·i, 11 11( lf1f,l\\lllg 1.• lh· \\, 1 '1~~' ·'' IJ·,· 
• \.jli.llll·. Ill:--. \\'•Ill,, ?li. ,.,.r p.t...,... II •, Ill': I 
, '·· • a11 If .. 
11
• t ;• li.,, 
i.' I, ,,I 

hll I .lh•• 1"111l'JIII\..!.I' liJ• d\1..'! f\\• 
1 •dt, I• t-. IH ~11JH! .. tn d• li' Plld ( .tr I t \\ •. I,. ,tl\1 ,1\' 1\ ,I lOll <I I•' pl.l' ( .rc.~ llcl\\l'~·n lhl· ''''' po.... 1f1n11~ .. '·'', I .lll-.1 'he.~ .llJ"-' !J,, 'P•.·c.·,l gl\ ,., 11·-.1 n .II 1111< -II \\, , <•tlldn; IH h•rL r1., ,Ill~,. 111 .dl :he IIlii It H ·, l1l1• \\ ('.\<. 
~·•I It ndl!ng 11<1\1 \ll'll' 1111 pr• •I nl ~IHII• • It H) J'< l'll.lll' 
seven carc:c:r interceptions, three: have: come: in the: last several weeks. 
Throughout his carc:c:r, the: S-1 0, 178-pound junior has played his best games in the: biggest games. Alabama quarterbacks threw only one: interception all year in 1980, 

and Thurson was the: culprit. This year, in the: Jackets upset ofthe Tide:. Thurson picked off another pass. He: had two interceptions last year against arch-rival Georgia, and two mon: sc:vc:ral wc:c:ks ago against 
North Carolina. "I've hc:en saving my hig return," he says. "I want it to he a game-winning touchdown in a retlly hig game." Last year in Atlanta, when Notre: Dame could manage: only a 3-3 tic, Kid was replaced after throwing two interceptions. That is not as like­ly this week. Irish coaches have: made it dear that he is the number one: man, and he will go the: distance:, barring injury or rout. "Blair has improved a lot," says the Irish offensive: coordinator, Tom Lichtenberg. "He's learning to be: a passer, not just a thrower. We doubt ht•'ll repeat his mistakes." 
• Kic:l, too, is hoping he can avoid the: intc:rt·eption jinx that has plagued him this season. 
''I'm happy with my performance: in the: last couple of weeks, but I'm not satisfied." he: admits. "I've been a 
liuk lucky. and I still have a lot of improvt·mc:nts to make:." 
Thurson is in the: same situation. lk has proven his ability to play in the: .Jackets defensive secondary, but he: wants more. 
"I fc:d like: I've: played pretty wdl," he says. "But. I still fed I 

..1;'-~_,.,p_p~-'~-U~-1"Q-bt-~-tiH->tha-ll_0_~-m~-T-A_G_E_!---.: -~ 
I 
1:,--r ar
11

I.Nov \t •;,}--."' , ~n.. ...... MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
RESERVED SEATS 12.50-11.50 ON SALE NOW AT AUD. BOX-OFFICE 11 A.M. TO 5 P.M. DAILY 

ALSO 000(,1[-" REt:ORDS-COLU::r,c: SO Ml>,;mhAf"\A AND BEU~E .. ·---·---.• PLAZA 1~11. ES. & THE SUSPENDED CHORD PIERRE MORAN MALL ~ Open at o:OO A.i\.-1 7days{/ u~eek • ..E__LK--H-'AR_T_____________.........................¥ ·¥« 
.., 
-

RADOOTvMu{$ooucnoNIINC 0 
' \ : Appfep 
PRESENTS 
rtt ~ 'Uid. 7~l\..1 4. ~TH 'IT4. l'\.1 1' ~~ ~~~"E"R~ ~
TR 

SUNDAY. 
can. I nc:c:d to improve: ~orne of my 
techniques." 
Looking over Thurson's statistics, the: tirst arc:a of possible: improvc:­mc:nts that comes to mind is inter­cc:ption returns. Only one: of his seven passes has been returned for any yardage. Part of the explanation for that is the: fact that a number of those: pic:k-offs have: come: on spec­tacular diving grabs. 
"That'~ win_· I don't have: marn_· 
return yards on passes I've inter­cepted," he says. "Most have come: with people: around or I've had to dive to make: thc:m." 
Diving or not, Thursun's catches have: historically come: late: in the: · game, with the: opposition driving W 
a score: that could have: put the: game: out of reach. It happened last season against Georgia, and again this ,_-car 
in the Alabama game. 
"That was a very big play Tc:d made:," says Tech Coach Bill Curry. "It kept us within a touchdown of Alabama, and let us pull out the: win." 
The two juniors will fac:e off against each other each time: Notre: Dame finds itself in a punting situa­tion as we:II. Kic:l, of course: docs the: kicking, but Thurson is a punt retur­ncr. He: led the: Jackets in punt returns last season, and is likely to get his hands on a couple of Kid's boots tomorrow. 
So, throughout the day, Kic:l and Thurson will go head to head. Kic:l will get some hdp from Howard, Thurson will get a hand from his td­low mcmbt·rs of tht· Tech sc:nm­
dary. The: winner of the showdown 
mostlikc:lywillbc:thc:winnc:rofthc: 

• ~ Our Specialty using fresh sliced ~ · apples topped with a su~ar cinnamon tl: glaze nrn·r surpa"i\Pd~ 
:~ .. ~c ~~~ G(_,' :RJ/)H/• 
ft= ~l r'ec<) G~e-aruia TeciJ/ .,.
f1 -~ • 
tl, :l· 3} (/)ixicu·rn·' \·orti: .. 
~ m aose1a1w • ~ 
. 

J.r Across from the Hoitday inn) • 
"' 

• ~~~-..... . 
•
•
• 

RODNEY 

: DANGERFIELD : 
• 

• Tonight's performance has been • : postponed to a later date. All tickets : • will be honored. • 
• TICKETS ON SALE AT THE A.C.C. : : BOX OFFICE. ALSO AVAILABLE • :AT: ROBERTSON'S INS. BEND, AND: : THE CONCORD MALL, ST. JOSEPH'S : • BANK (MAIN BRANCH), 1st SOURCE • :BANK (MAIN), ELKHART TRUTH, : : SUSPENDED CHORD (ELKHART). : 
~~~~~~~~.,~..~~~~~~~~~~~~·~~,.~~~~~~~ 
~ 

~BIG BROTHERS/BIG SISTERS 
' would like to take their ' 'liHies' ' ~to the Georgia Tech giiiDe. 
' Please contribute any tickets ' Friday at the Dining Balls ~ duri.Dg lunch or diuer, 
~ 

~ . 
·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~-\'¥ -¥-i( 
iC"1' ~ 
iC ~ ~ 
.... ~ 
iC ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
j 
'l' ~ 
~ QUR SPECIALTY ~ ' 
'l' '"1' 
~ EXTRA LARGE ~ ! 
I





DuM-Balzed-
I 
I i 
~ 
• 
iC 
iC iC 
c=: 


,_ 

-------------------------------------------------------~----------­
f 
I' 
~Sports Special -NO vs. Georgia Tech Friday,November6, 1981-page 18 
Fightin' Irish vs. Yellow Jackets The Game 
The Lineups 

NOTRE DAME OFFENSE 
GEORGIA TECH OFFENSE POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL
GAME: Notre Dame (3-4) v. Georgia Tech (1-7) 
POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL
SITE: l\lotre Dame Stadium (capacity 59,075) 
QB 5 Blair Kiel 6-1 195 So. 
QB 4 Stu Rogers 6-2 202 So. TIME: 1 :30 p.m. EST Saturday, November 7, 1981 14 Tim Koegel 6-4 205 Sr. 
17 Andy Thomas 6-1 190 So. 
TB 22 Phil Carter 5-10 200 Jr. 
TB 20 Robert Lavette 6-0 188 Fr.
TV-RADIO: Metrosports Replay Network 
32 Chris Smith 6-2 220 Fr. 
30 Jimmy Stanley 6-1 189 Jr.
Harry Kalas and George Connor 
FB 33 John Sweeney 6-2 215 Jr. 
FB 26 Ronny Cone 6-2 226 Jr. 
39 Larry Monarty 6-2 220 Jr.
9 a.m. Sunday-WNDU-TV 
29 David Allen 5-9 203 Sr. 
WB 48 John Mosley 6-1 195 So. SE
Notre Dame-Mutual Radio Network 
89 Richard Salem 6-2 179 So. 
28 Greg Bell 6-0 205 So. 
84 KennyThompson 6-1 180 Sr. SE 24 Joe Howard 5·9 165 Fr. FL
Tony Roberts and AI Wester 
1 0 Jeff Keisler 5-11 181 So.
WNDU-AM 1500 

84 Tim Tripp 6-3 205 Sr. 
86 Denny Rochester 6-1 186 So. 
RT 71 Phil Pozderac 6·9 270 Sr. RT
WNDU-TV Channel16 
78 David Lutz 6-7 274 Jr. 
52 John Putzstuck 6-5 262 Jr.
Tom Dennin and Jeff Jeffers 
77 Brian Yates 6-5 234 Jr. 
RG 74 Mike Shiner 6-8 270 Jr. 
RG 69 Tony Kepano 6-2 243 Fr.
SERIES: 30th and last meeting of series 
75 Larry Kissner 6-4 255 Sr. 
66 Derek Gwinn 6-4 245 So.
Irish lead series 24-4-1 
C 57 Mark Fischer 6·4 245 Jr. c 58 Dean Waters 6-3 240 So. 
68 Barry Young 6-5 245 So.
TICKETS: Game is sold out 
60 Mark Schultz 6-2 234 Jr. 
LG 76 Randy Ellis 6·4 250 Jr. LG 62 Ken Howell 6·2 225 Jr.
79 Neil Maune 6-5 255 So. 
66 Mark Morgan 6-4 244 So. 
LT 64 Tom Thayer 6·5 265 Jr. 
LT 76 Ellis Gardner 6-4 258 Jr. 
70 Marty Roddy 6-6 260 Fr. 
71 Stan Sparks 6-5 235 So. 
TE 85 Tony Hunter 6-5 220 Jr.



The Statistics 
TE 9 Ken Whisenhunt 6-3 218 So. 
95 Pete Buchanan 6-3 230 Jr. 
85 Glenn Ethendge 6-2 221 Jr P 5 Blair Kiel 6-1 195 So. p 8 Jeff Pierce 6-2 190 Sr.
10 Bnan Whelan 6-0 185 Sr.
TEAM STATISTICS ND OPP PASSING G NO CO PCT INT YDS TD DEFENSE TMTL-YDS PBU FR BK PK 3 Harry Oliver 5-11 185 Sr. 
PK 7 Ron Rice 6-3 201 So.
4 Mike Johnston 5-11 185 JrTOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 2314 Koegel 71 38 .535 521 3 61 1 0
2005 7 3 Crable 6-30 1 
KO 8 MikeJohnston 5-11 185 Jr.
Total Plays 492 Kiel 67 32 .478 408 3 40 2 0 KO 7 Ron Rice 6·3 201 So.
456 7 5 Zavagnm 1·7 0 40 Gary Purk 6-0 185 So.
Yards per Pia y 4.7 4.4 Conden1 3 1 1.000 4 0 25 4 0 0
0 Duerson 2-5 PR 23 Dave Duerson PR 22 Jack WestbrookYards per Game 330.6 286.4 Hunter 7 1 0 .000 1 0 0 Knmm 19 0·0 2 0 0 30 Stacey Toran 

41 Ted Thurson KR 28 Greg Bell PENALTIES-YARDS 35-316 32·316 Grooms 2 3 0 .000 0 0 0 Toran 19 1·6 2 0 0 KR 20 Robert LavetteFUMBLES-LOST 12·3 14-6 Mosley 5 1 1 1.000 0 -3 0 
Clasby 18 2·10 2 0 0 

24 Joe Howard 28 Keith GlantonYards Returned 0 0 
Gramke 15 2·13 0 0 0 

TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 120 99 ND 7 144 72 .500 9 930 6 Naylor 14 0-0 o e o NOTRE DAME DEFENSE GEORGIA TECH DEFENSE 
By Rush1ng 69 59 OPP 7147 64 .435 7 859 6 Belden 12 2·15 0 0 0 
LE 38 John Autry 6-2 230 So. LEBy Passing 43 31 74 Marvin Dyett 6-4 245 Jr.
Marshall 12 4-21 0 0 0 

36 Tony Belden 6·2 230 Sr.
By Penalty 8 9 98 Bobby Hodge 6-5 308 Fr
Autry 12 1-22 1 0 0 

L T 77 Tim Marshall 6-4 250 So.
THIRD DOWNS-CONY 100-28 109·29 
OLB 56 Robert Jaracz 6-3 200 So.
11 0·0 4 3 0 

94 Tom Bock 6-4 255 Sr.
RECEIVING G NO YDS AVG TO LG GnfflthPercentage 280 266 44 Gary Snell 6-3 219 Jr.

Bone 11 0-0 0 0 0 

RT 91 Bob Clasby 6-5 260 Jr.
POSSESSION TIME 225:50 194.10 
OLB 43 Lance Skelton 6·0 203 Sr.
Johnson 10 0-0 1 0 0 

92 Joe Gramke 6-4 245 Sr.
Hunter 7 19 286 15.1 1 35

Minutes per Game 32.16 27:44 90 Sam Bracken 6-5 228 Fr.
RudZinSki 8 1·3 0 0 0 

RE 56 Kevm Griffith 6-3 240 Sr. RE
Masztak 6 13 163 12.5 1 33 

92 Mark Bradley 6-3 245 Sr. 
_ Bock 6 0·0 0 0 0 

88 Jeff Lueken 6-5 245 Jr.
Carter 6 6 41 6.8 0 14 

99 Peter Blazek 6-6 263 So. SCORING GTD PA R-PA S FG TP Howard 6 5 115 23.0 1 52 
Roggeman 5 1-2 0 0 0 

SLB 51 Joe Rudzinski 6-3 225 Jr. 
ILB 49 Duane Wood 5-11 209 Jr. Sweeney 6 5 81 16.2 0 38 
Liebenste1n 3 0-0 0 0 0 

37 R1ck Naylor 6-3 220 So. 
97 Mike Martin 6-1 201 So.
Brown 3 0-0 0 0 0 

MLB 43 Bob Crable 6-3 225 Sr.
Oliver 7 015-16 0-0 0 5-11 30 Bell 7 5 58 11.6 0 13 
NG 65 Wally Caw1hon 6-0 229 Jr.
Cichy 3 0-0 1 0 0 

49 Jack Shields 6·2 220 Jr.
Bell 7 3 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 18 Condeni 3 4 49 12.2 1 21 
57 Donme Chisholm 6-0 250 Fr.
Larkin 3 0·0 0 0 0 

WLB 46 Mark Zavagnin 6-2 225 Jr.
Carter 6 3 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 18 Boushka 5 3 52 17.3 0 25 ILB 52 Robert Holton 6·0 225 So.
Adell 2 0-0 0 0 0 

42 Mike Larkin 6-1 210 Fr.
Moriarty 7 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 Moriarty 7 3 30 10.0 2 20 
46 Sammy Huntley 6-2 225 So.
Carter 0·0 0 0 0 

WCB 30 Stacey Toran 6-4 195 So.
Hunter 7 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 Mosley 5 3 25 8.3 0 9 
LCB 13 Paul Menegazzi 5-11 186 So.
Gann 0-0 0 0 0 

41 Mike Masini 6-2 200 SrHoward 6 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 Brooks 5 2 17 8.5 0 11 47 Ken Carney 6-1 186 Fr.
Shields 0·0 0 0 0 

SCB 19 John Krimm 6-2 190 Sr.
Sm1th 5 1 0·0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Adell 5 2 12 6.0 0 10 
RCB 41 Ted Thurson 5-10 184 Jr.
Moriarty 0-0 0 0 0 

9 Chris Brown 6-1 185 So.
Masztak 6 1 0·0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Buchanan 6 1 4 4.0 0 4 11 Leroy Kaylor 6-0 186 So. 
_ l11ce 0-0 0 0 0 

SS 23 Dave Duerson 6·3 200 6-3 ss
Kiel 7 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Kiel 7 1 ·3 -3.0 0 3 
36 Mark Sheffield 6-1 196 Jr.
Mosley 0-0 0 0 0 

40 Steve Cichy 6-2 210 SrCondeni 3 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 
33 Mike Niebanck 5-11 190 Jr. NOTRE DAME 7 72 930 12.9 6 52 
FS 26 Rod Bone 6-2 200 Jr. 
FS 21 Sammy Brown 6-2 193 Jr.
NOTRE DAME 318 23-134 20 4 0 

27 Joe Johnson 6-2 190 Fr.
NO 7 16 15·16 0-0 0 5-11126 OPPONENTS 7 64 859 13.4 6 71 
15 Ken Escoe 6-3 195 So.
OPPONENTS 318 16-80 11 2 0

OPP 7 12 6-7 1-5 0 3-7 89 
-....;,.· 
liNT RET NO YOS AVG TD LG 

-G NO YDS AIICH(U:G -PIItf'ANG ..;;:_:;.; ~:: ~· yt)S' AV<l LG" .Z~yagnin ::..., . 2 27 13.5 0 27 6 89 430 4.8 3 30 ____________;;__:_______ Krimm 1 11 11.0 0 11 ..,] 72 42·1 -"5'.~ ...a;:-,<4.1 .Kiel. '''·. ,.,.> ··l-... 46 1776 .~9.5~.55 T()fari .,•.1.. 2 3 1.5 0 3 5 38 141 3.7 1 22 Whelan · ..., .. ,. · 1 44 ·44.0 44 johnson 1 o 0.0 o o 5 21 112 5.3 o Brown 1 o o.o o o 

Notre Dame (3-4) Georgia Tech (1-7) Sept. 12be~tLSU.27-9 . ,,, Sept...t.2beat-Ala~~-2l;,.,. · 
f-t'l'~••~"--~1'~.::;: -~ '·~~ ·~tRt6~'>~ · · · r 4t...5.9 ·o 21 
Sept. 191ostto Michigan, 25-7 Sept 19.1ost to Florida.'i7:6 .. • 
54 6.0 0 29 

SE¥)1. 29-lqs~!oPurdue, 15·.1:f\:·~· ·.. Sepkzei.lost.tertMi~ ~::r. ~ . .Oct ~9.i.~·MIC,HIGAN ~Tc,, ~Q.-:1.. J ' OCt 1'0-lost to FLORIDA·ST':'?fg•. 
.~~ci~i1-~;ji6t~~--~~~~;.·.::· iil·~;~~f~~~:~:~~~~~1~~:
·bet~ 31 t>eat'NAw.'38-o ._.. ~:,:..-:~":~..:·:~ · 'oct Nov. 7 GEORGIA TECH ·.· .." Oct 31 Nov. 14 at Air Force Nov. 7 
·Nov.'·2laf~n'nstate -c~ ~,; Nov. 1 
Nov. 28at Miami (Fla.) Nov, 28 GeORGIA ··'' .. 
Each week, The Observer S.P.,Orts staff · 
. ..: .. ·~. 
matches wits with Jlnimy the Greek..,s 
~~~d iine:;Aecords listed are reSIJits .
., 

against the spread. Home teams are in Sports Writer . Sports Writer Sports Writer Sports Editor 
..;.;~·w~·';.•"i).~..;<~I?Pr,IS,.'~.r~e!, "'''•~.,;··.,;~-~~,~~~.e,f.,, .., . -: !~~c. _pports E~!t'!r,. , . Spo'J}l.~ri~er . ... •. . ··•\"'i".•' .. . :~ . .. ~·~·,.,.·. .-<.· t,' ' ""~ ~~ -~~ ....... .::;.·· . " . . . . 59·48·2 .551 . ..., 5~:48.2 .551 58-49-2..542 54-53-2.505 53-54-2 .495 53-54-2 .495 50-57-2 .467 . 50-57·2 .467 
.'•li; ;.··
-~.,.~~. ·~~:,. .•~,. ·-~ ·"" •· . _.'¥J#i' .. ..... ~·-;;·:•J~t". ·::... ~,.._. ~. • • "'. r.t ···~""'~~-~~~!!.·:··~~: :-w-tt:., ~.~ :· :\$~:'1:"'" .vt·l'r.·'A{'-.Io··" --....:-;:;.~'",. _;;-;.;~=-" ·,~ •·. 
Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines
MICHIGAN over Illinois by 15 Wolverines Wolverines lllini Wolvertnes lllini ··.. •...·!.,.,;'.....
NORTH CAROLINA and Clemson'liven Tigers ~,, Tigers • , Tigers Heels Tigers Tigers Heels Heels Lions Lions
Penn State over N. C. STATE by 13 Lions Lions Lions Lions Lions Lions 
Georgia over FLORIDA by 6 Dawgs Dawgs Dawgs Dawqs Dawgs Gators Dawgs Gators Hoosiers
Wisconsin over INDIANA by 5 Hoosiers Badgers Badgers Badgers Badgers Badgers Hoosiers Middies M1dd1es Middies
NAVY over Syracuse by 3 Middies Orange men Middies Orangemen M1ddies Buckeyes Buckeyes
Ohio State ovr MINNESOTA by 9 Buckeyes Gophers Buckeyes Gophers Gophers Gophers 
Mlch State over NORTHWE:STERH by 29 Spartans Cats Cats Cats Cats Cats Cats Cats 
Boilers
IOWA over Purdue by 4 Hawks Hawks Hawks Hawks Boilers Hawks Hawks Huskers Huskers
Nebr~ over OKLAHOMA STAJE by 13 Huskers Huskers Cowboys Huskers Huskers Huskers 
Trojans TrojansSouthern Cal over CALIFORNIA by 18 Trojans Trojans Trojans Trojans Trojans Tro1ans 
WASHINGTON STATE over Oregon by 12 Cougars Cougars Cougars Cougars Cougars Cougars Cougars Cougars 
Bruins Bru1nsUCLA over Washington by 6 Husk1es Bruins Bruins Huskies Bruins Bruins 
FLORIDA STATE over Miami (Fla.) by 3 Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles 
Texas over HOUSTON by 4 Horns Horns Horns Horns Horns Cougars Horns Cougars 
Irish
NOTRE DAME over Georgia Tech by 23 Irish Irish Irish Irish lnsh lnsh lrtsh 



The Observer-.,==~-=--=---=-=-=--·-=-~~--cc:.-~==---===c--=,=--==c=.-=-=--===~, 
Friday, November 6, 1981-page 19

Weekend 
Molarity !.J'LL,CHERYL, WE ARc.U£1? F"OUG,HT ANl> C.RIE'P ~BOl!i IT... WILL YOU HARFIY ~!'~~!! Doonesbury YOIJ KNCW, FJRE,NNEI?..IT'5A ~Ill& aJiA1JN'T HAV~ fiJOMIJ 7HI5 01/TAl1T7Zt tA11JtR. 'rfJIJf< Gm!NG SHOT HA5f?e4/.J.Y ser /8ACJ< MlfJt.ANS .A TO•.(R,frtY(j(}()l Simon The Daily Crossword ©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd~nc. 11/6/81All Rights Reserved  Michael Molinelli Garry Trudeau 'tJIJ BeT7lR. 6eTI?OIJJN TH&F/3 AN£) TEU 7HfM YO/IV& PROPPECJ7Hc OfA/?6ES! rou HCAR I M~.~N8R? IJReNN£3R? Jeb Cashin ACROSS 34 Assert 56 Flowers 25 Subjugate 1 Region 35 Jacob's 60 Verily 27 External 5 Muffler father 61 Seamen's appearances 1 0 Experienced 37-Paulo quarters 28 Egg-shaped 14 Cake spe· 38 Crowcall 64 Carte 29 Marry cialist 39 Stop_up a 65 Grape again 15 Must passage conserve 31 Practice 16 Higherup 41 Time past 66 Assay 32 Tokens of 17 Ancestor 42 Hot time 67 Grafted, in defiance 19 City north in Brest heraldry 33 Owl sounds of Lake 43 Remove wool 68 Composer 36 Relating Tahoe 44 "-a kick Franz to the ear 20 Grievous out of ..." 69 Health 39 Old port experiences 45 Composed resorts of Rome 21 Threescore 47 Immensity 40 lngood and ten 50 Compete DOWN spirits 23 Flat 51 Fitzgerald 1 Elevator 44 Is emphatic 26 Witch and Raines 2 Bitterness 46 Way of 27 Caution 52 Elbow 3 St. Philip ­approach 30 Adequate to wrist 4 Visionary 48 Deli 5 Volcanic equipment Calif. peak 49 Irish 6 Mouse capital menace of yore 7 Residue 52 Reputation 8 Hwys. 53 Portent 9 Brow 54 Lease 10 Precede 55 Make 11 Divisible progress by 2 57 Dance 12 Fast season movement 13 City on the 58 Maxwell the Hudson hostess 18 Defect 59 Collections 22 Carter 62 Stadium cabinet sound member 63 Airport 24 Instant info abbr.  Campus Friday •9 a.m.-4 p.m -art print sale, Iafortune lobby •noon -lecture, "from park to dusk: the decline of the squirearchy in austen, dickens, trollopc and waugh", jim zarzana, nd graduate student, memorial library lounge, sponsored by english departmcm • 3:30p.m. -lecture, "problems in theories ofthe state: weber and marx", robert antonio, university ofkansas, 122 hayes healy, sponsored by sociology and anthr•Jpology departments, all arc welcome • 3:30 p.m. colloquium, "augustine's philosophizing person: the view from cassciacum", al neiman, nd, memorial library lounge, sponsored by philosophy department •4-5 p.m. -spanish club tertulia, south alcove on main floor, Iafortune, venga para hablar con nosotros y practicar el arte de conversar! •7 p.m. -pep rally, stepan center · •7, I 0 IJ.m. -film, "godfather," part one, engineering auditorium, S I •7:30 p.m. -japanese film, "late autumn", memorial auditorium •8 p.m. -concert, barbershop quartet, o'laughlin auditvr'um, sponsored by spebsqsa, tickets available at the door •8 p.m. -play, "adieu emma", nd/smc theatre production, based on flaubert's "madame bovary", saint mary's ci:.Jbhouse, early seating advisable •9 p.m.·? -"beaux arts" costume party, music by the pages, architecture building, tickets S3 at the door Saturday •10:30 a.m. -logan center field trip to georgia tech g<J'lle, volunteers please note different time •II a.m.-: p.m. -alumni hospitality center, north dome ace •1 :30 p.m. -football, nd v. georgia tech, last home game ofseason •7, 9:15, 11:30 p.m. -film, "the quiet man", engineering auditorium, sponsored by film club, Sl •8 p.m. -play, "adieu emma", nd/smc theatre production, based on flaubert's "madame bovary", saint ma1 y's clubhouse, early seating advisable Sunday •1 0:30 a.m. -mass for peace, rev. jack kec:fc:, c.s.c., farley hall chapel, all are invited •t-3 p.m.-memorabilia exhibit, hammes gallery. saint mary',; college • 2 p.m. -mass with emmaus, friends of the men­tally retarded and of l'arche. moreau seminary, all arc welcome • 3 p.m. -lt·cture. "stunning, but is it art?", dr. roy ~ic:ber, indiana university, bloomington, annen­berg au<.:itorium •7 p.m. -film, "best boy", o'laughlin audiwrium, ~ponsored hy logan center. $2 person. S'; family •8 p.m. -michiana new music ensemble, roger briggs. conductor. littk theatre, snK, all an· welcome •8: I'\ p.m. -concert, john van buskirk. pianist, annenbcrg auditorium  


Live Irish Band 
11CALLL1HAN & BRISKEL" 
j 
~­
Be there! ~~ _ 

111"'------------------..
---~---------~~----~-~---­

Friday, Novembe-r 6, 1981 --page 20
SRorts 
Irish travel to 
Western Michigan 
with a goals-against average of 2.00.

By MICHAEL OLENIK 
Healy has split time with junior

Sports Writer 
Steve Abbott ( 4. 50 GAA), and it is likely that the Broncos will continue _. Still stunned by last weekend's to use this system, which gave thetwo one-goal losses to Northern Irish trouble in the Northern Michi­Michigan, Notre Dame's hockey gan series. 

team is preparing to turn things On the friendly side ofthe ice, Jeff
around quickly this weekend against Perrv Bill Rothstein and Dave
Western Michigan in Kalamazoo. Pouli~ continue to pace the Irish
The Broncos are 2-2-0 in the 
scoring thrust, having contributed

CCHA and hold an overall edge of 
40 percent of the team's point

3-1-1 in the series with the Irish, and 
production so far. Both Perry and

Irish Coach Lefty Smith is wdl aware Rothstein have accumulated sixofthe tough test that awaits his team. 
points in four league games thus far,"We're not wasting any time in while Poulin has seven assists.

finding out if we are going to be a Defensively, Jim Brown and Johncontender this year, " muses Smith. 
Schmidt will provide the example"Western has traditionally been a for the young, yet effectivetough team for us to beat, and the blueliners that performed relativelyfact that they're at home for the third well last week. Some key mental er·week in a row won't help matters. 

rors tainted their overall perfor·The closeness of the two schools mance however, as an upset Smithmakes this a great natural rivalry, clearly relates.

~nd I know we will be anxious to get "We've got to play better fun­
back into the thick ofthe conference damental hockey, especially
race this weekend." defensively. There is just no excust"
By virtue of its split with pre­for giving up some of the goals that
season favorite Michigan Tech last we did last week."
weekend, Western is proving that it Dave Laurion will once again be
is a legitimate conference contender tested in the nets for the Irish, as he
with plenty of talented personnel. comes offtwo excellent showings in
All-America candidates Bob Scur· the ACC a week ago. With a 3.66
tleld and and Ross Fitzpatrick lead a GAA for the year, Laurion is proving
Broncos' attack that is backed by a that this might the year that he lives
highly productive supporting cast. up to the tumult of rave reviews he
The ·o· line, comprised ofwingers received during his freshman cam­Jim Olson and Terry Olson and cen­
paign.

ter Diego Odino, gives Coach Glen Statistics aside. it will be consis­Weller a proven second line that has tent defensive and offensive playalready put the puck in the net con­that will propel the Irish in their racesistently this season. 
for conference leadership, and withOn the blueline, the Broncos are this early season confrontation with:-.,.;tacked with experience, as five the Broncos, Smith will have a primeregulars from last year's team return. 

opportunity to "find out just what

Ralph Murphy and Ken Calder my team is made of this week."
anchor a defensive corps that has surrendered only 13 goals in four IRISH ITEMS: Game time both conference games thus far. nights is 7:30. Next weekend, the Western Michigan helped them­
Irish play a home-and-home series selves considerably in the off-season 
against Michigan State, travelling to by signing freshman goaltender 
East Lansing on Friday and returning Glenn Healy, who enters the series 
to the ACC on Saturday. 


For the Irish hockey team, last weekend's frustrating losses were ~ypified by this breakaway by DavePoulin ( 15). His shot went wide. The Irish 
Face Tech 

will try to bounce back this weekend at Western Michigan. (photo by]ohnMacor) 
Irish try to avenge last year's tie 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame is coming off its best offensive and defensive outing of-the season. The bowl scouts are still in­terested. And two tough road games, a battle with Penn State and a nationally-televised date with !\1iami, are down the road. But Gerry Faust couldn't care less about all that at this point. 
"I'm just worried about Georgia Tech right now," confirmed the Irish head coach. "I'm looking at the games one at a time. We've got to win this game Saturday. It's impor­tant to get on the even side of the ledger." 
"Besides," he added, "I'll get ul­cers if I start to look ah~ad, and I've had enough of them already." 
Faust's 3-4 squad confronts a 1-7 Georgia Tech team, but Tech's record is deceiving. After upsetting Alabama 24-21 in their season opener, the Engineers lost their two top quarterbacks to injury. 

"They've lost on a break here and there," Faust explains, ''but I think they have the potential to give us a tough game just on the basis ofwhat they did to us last year." 
A year ago, Notre Dame took an unblemished record and a number one ranking down to Atlanta only to have a 1-7 Georgia Tech team tie them, 3·3. 
The Irish haven't forgotten that dismal day, and they'll be anxious to make up for it, especially the seniors. Tomorrow's 1:30 kickoff marks their last appearance in Notre Dame Stadium, and it could be a day ofspe­cial significance for one particular senior, co-captain Bob Crable. The all-America linebacker needs only 
17 tackles to break Notre Dame's all­
time tackling record of 479, now 
held by Bob Golic. 
If Crable and his classmates want 
to go out winners at home, they'll 
have to contain what Faust calls 
Tech's "unbelievably multiple of­fense" that throws well and runs off the option just as well. 
Lefthanded sophomore Stu Rogers ( 14 of 22 for 242 yards) has secured the job at quarterback. Lining up behind Rogers are tailback Rob Lavatte and fullback Ronny Cone. Only a freshman, Lavatte leads the team in rushing stats with a 73.0 yards per game average, fourth best in the ACC. Lavatte also leads Tech in pass receptions with 23. 
Tech counters with an exception­ally quick defense that Faust feels "gives you a lot of different looks. They're a team of great skilled ath­letes, and that always worries you." 
But Tech coach Bill Curry must 
have a few worries about stopping 
an Irish offense that came alive last 
week thanks to three position 
changes and a liberal passing attack. 
Coming off his best throwing ef­
fort of the season, quarterback Blair 
Kiel inched closer to the .500 mark 
See TECH, apge 17 

-
Seniors must shun emotions in final home game 
When a football team plays its heart out and loses as our team did against Southern Cal, you always are concerned' about an emotional letdown the next game. You never know how a team is going to react when it returns to the practice tiel d. 
Our team was no different last week when we began preparations for Navy. It was frustrating for them to play their best and not see the results in the win column. But by mid· week, we could tell that the kids had put the loss behind them and had convinced themselves that they had made progress against the Trojans. 
We were impressed the way the kids boum.ed back against a good Navy team, and I now think we've turned the corner on the season. After all the frustrations and the injuries to key personnel, we are playing the kind offootball we thought we were capable ofplaying. 
Our team is starting to develop a personality. We can sense a feeling of togetherness that is greater than at the beginning of the season. Everyone is pulling for everyone. The kids are really playing with enthusiasm and spirit. 
In the locker room before the game, our team presented a 
game ball to CoL Leland J. Holland, one of our returned 
Iranian hostages. After the presentation, our kids gave him a 
standing ovation. It meant a lot to Col. Holland, who couldn't 
get them to quiet down, and it meant a great deal to the kids, 
who are appreciative of everything the man went through 
during his time in Iran. It was one ofthe greatest experiences 
I have had in coaching. 
Coach George Welsh should be proud ofhis Navy football 
team. He has a fine group of young men, they are well­
coached and they're going to have a great year despite their 
loss last Saturday. 
Defensively, we thought we played our best game of the 
season. We showed signs of what we are capable of doing 
against Florida State, and we continued to improve against 
Southern Cal and Navy. 
Our linebackers and secondary played an excellent foot­
ball game, but we were impressed the most by our defensive line's performance. Our players really dominated the line of scrimmage. In particular, nose tackle Bob Clasby, a 6-5, 260­pound junior from Milton, Mass., enjoyed a fine afternoon, leading all our down linemen with six tackles. Bob has really learned th1r position, and for his size, he is showing great lateral movement. 

Our offense continued to show the improvement that was evident against Southern Cal. Coaches and backs will tell you, you're not going to go far with the ball if the guys up front aren't doing their job. 
We are asking our offensive linemen to do more this season, and it has taken time for them to understand the sys· tern. But the line has improved week to week, and Saturday, the kids really showed great movement off the ball. 
It has been particularly difficult for a player like Mark Fis­cher, who was asked to move from tight end to center last spring. But Mark, a 6-4, 245-pound junior from Massillon, Ohio, has done everything we've asked him to do. Mark put on 30 pounds over the summer and has developed into a fine center. He has shown improvement every week against some great nose guards. 
Our line's performance made things easier for our quarter­back Blair Kiel, who is improving each week. He really adds a dimension to our offense with his threat to run. Three times when no one was open, Blair brought the ball down and ran. On two of those occasions, Blair's ability to run allowed a receiver to get open and he got him the ball. That's what happened on the 52-yard touchdown pass to freshman split end Joe Howard. 
We also were impressed by the performances of Howard and Tony Hunter. Because of the season-ending injury to tight end Dean Masztak, Hunter was moved to the position from split end. He performed admirably for only being there a week. Howard, a 5-9, 165-pounder from Clinton, Md., also played well at his new position. Up until t last week, he had been a wingback. 
Overall, it was a very satisfying victory, and we wer~ really happy that we were able to play so many players. it was a great thrill to see so many of our players, particularly the young ones and walk-ons, get a chance to contribute in the game. I enjoyed it and so did our regulars, who realize the sacrifices these players make every week in preparing them for Saturday's opponent. 
We're getting better and better as a football team, but we must remember that we still have four tough games to go, including the tina! home game of the season tomorrow against Georgia Tech. 
It has been a frustrating, injury-filled year for Coach Bill Curry's team, but we know they are dangerous by their upset ofAlabama earlier this season. Georgia Tech has been hurt at the quarterback position with the losses of Mike Kelley and Jim Bob Taylor to injuries, but sophomore Stu Rogers has performed well the last two weeks. 
They also have two great running back in freshman tail­back Robert Lavette and junior fullback Ronny Cone. Lavette has gained 584 yards on 141 carries and caught 23 passes for 200 yards, while Cone has 255 yards on 57 carries. 
We will also be facing another quick and aggressive Geor­gia Tech defense led by linebackers Robert Horton and Duane Wood. Horton already has 112 tackles this season and Wood has 85. 
Traditionally, Georgia Tech teams are always emotionally 
ready to play Notre Dame. We were 7·0 last season when we 
played them, and they battled us to a 3-3 tie. 
This is the last home game for many ofour seniors, and it's going to be an emotional time for them. But we can't let those emotions get in the way of the important goals. 







