

• • . Hunter -page3 
------------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------

VOl.. XV, NO. 121 
Motherof20 discusses family, work 
l:'ditor's note: Domthy DeBolt, mot!Jer of 20 c!Jildren, cmt!Jor of one book ami subject oftwo recent films. spokt• at Saint Mary's last ll'(>ek as part of Women's Oppor­tuni~y Week. SIJe was intert,iewed by Ohscrver Staff Reporter Anne 
jane Dregalltl. 

Dorothy DeBolt 
Q: What do you think of the if'om(•n's Movement and its ten­dem:y to draw women away from the home? 
A: I think that it is very possihlc for women to have both a family and a carn·r. I think it's a matter of es­tahlishing priorities. As a mqther of 20 I have precisely hoth. and I revel In it. I think it's a mattt'r of organiz­Ing om·'s timt' and dett'rmining what you havt· to forego to he ahlc to adlievt· hoth. I am very much in sup­port of tht' women's movement, in tht.· search for equal rights in all rt.·spt.·t·ts. This Is tremt•ndously im­portant. I fully support the Equal Rights Amt•ndment. 
Q: Whtlt is your advice for youtlg u•omen trying to decide those priorities, between a family and tbeirjob? 
A: TheCl' arc those of us who have great capabilities with children and raising a family who Instinctively relate to the idea. I loved it. On the othl'r hand, I would have hccn tcr­rihly frustrated had I not hn·n ahlt­to ust· my artistic ahilities. I hap­pt.·ned to he ahlc to usc them in the same; enviroment; being with my chlldrt·n. and yet using those ahilitics. I think the young woman who finds that she really does not rdate too wdl to childrt:n once having had them, prohahly should not have .mort·. Also, sht.· should do ht·r darnt·destthen to find an enviro­mt'nt which is the hest one for that child while she seeks to do some· thing with her life. I think it is prohahly worse for a mother, so to­tally frustrated with staying at home with the child, to he a martyr and say 'I am sacrificing to stay home with my child', because she can do more damage than good to the child in her frustration. I think that some cases of child abuse come about from that kind of thing. On the other hand if she t.·an possihly work out keeping her own ego intact, keeping her own cart.·er to whatever degree she can and still cope with ht•r child, that is tht.· hcst. 
Q: What kind ofoutside belp do you emp/(~y? 
A: We don't. We have no outside hdp. Our hdp is the whole family. Again, it's a matter oforganizing and gt·lting us all to learn how to do everything. We have no sexist roles in our household. We ft·elits tcrrihly important that we all learn how to do everything, earn a living, go out and mow the lawn -and the boys 
See Q& A, page 4 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, APRIL 6, 19tH 

By KELLI FLINT 
Senior StaffReporter 
Former United Nations Amhas­sador Andrew Young discussed the foreign policy of the Reagan ad­ministration Saturday in the Center for Continuing Education. 
Young said that he believes that the prohlems in America today are the result of the loss of American ideals and values. 
" In my travels as ambassador, I found that the people causing the trouble had either been educated in the United States or were educated by missionaries from the U.S." · 
Young added that the Soviet llni­on is not responsible for many ofthe political crises in countries such as El Salvador. 
"We do ourselves a disservice by accrediting most political upsets to the Russians", he said."You can't have a country where fourteen families own most of the land and a church where we all declare our­selves God's children without expecting people to raise questions as to why they're hungry. 
" No matter what administration is elected, I don't think that we can repeal the notion that the American government is on the side of human rights. We will never be able to 


Young lectures on Reagan foreign policy 
reverse the American's respt.·ct for human life." 
Young stressed the need for pcat.·c in order to maintain cconomk' success on the foreign market. 
"Wt' need st:thility through pcat.'l' in order to he ahlc to sell our ex­ported goods and services," he said. "In this instance the Russians arc no match for us. The more we move 
towards  peace,  the  more  com­ 
petitive  we  art.·  in  the  economic  
market.  

"Our competition Is not Russia, hut Japan and Gt·rmany. While Wl' were dt.·veloping tanks during thl· Japanese wt·re developing t·ars that could run 35 miles on one gallon of gasoline. The current demand is for those cars. 
"We forced countries like Japan and Germany into pl·acctime development. Now tht•y arc economically stahlc. Their govern­ments cooperated on the interna­tional market, and have dcvelopt•d 'export expertise'. 
"The United States will have to ex­pand their business interests. There is currently a conflict between American interests and ideology. 
"We have a 'reactive' foreign 
See YOUNG, page 4 

SMC Career Center aids students 
mental Center is provided with counseling for all classes. other counselors like Mary Theis For all students having academic and Pat McQuinn who confidential­difficulty, the Center designed a ly help students through these voluntary program with Teresa growth processes. DePauw is a cer­Marcy, Dean of Academic Affairs, 
tified psycologist, and a psychiatrist and Susan Vanek, Freshman 
is on hand if necessary. Acadcnic Advisor, to teach students 
It Is just a myth that the Career skills for academic survival. ·study Center is only for Seniors. In fact, skills, time management and test DePauw stresses the importance of taking skills arc only a few of tht· early career development. The Cen­
See CENTER, page 4 

ter pr<,vides workshops and 
Heppen cancels lottery; overcrowding continues 
ByJOHN M. HIGGINS 
News Editor 

There will be no lottery ofon-campus hous~·ng space this y~ar, llni­ver~ity Director of H~using Michael Heppcn aid Friday. Hcppcn cx­plamed that a suffiCient number of studcn s had decided to live off-campus to avoid a lottery. 1 ! 
The possibility of a lottery was announ1cd in Ft·bruary after a record number of students suhmittcd C1f111racts ~or on-campus housing next y~ar. Heppen had set this Frida'y as the dl-adlinc for stu­dents to renege on their contracts without tHe standard $150 and S50 deposit forfeit. : ' 
The overcrowding problem in the dormitories ha.~ not hecn com­pletely eliminated, however. Some students will be required to live in the study lounges of Grace and Flanncr Halls, Hcppen said. "The lar­gest number of returned contracts were in Grace arid Flanncr," Hep­pcn said. "Some upperclassmen will h< required to live in study lounges on floors 2 through 1I." 
Hcppen affirmed that no int·oming fre~hmen would be requirt·d to live in th~ quadruples rooms. 
A release from the Housing Office states that in the future juniors will be issued residence contracts "on a ~pace availahle basis" and that a committee would be formed next fall "to study the various options." 
Heppen declined to comment on the. makeup or function of the committee. 
By CATHY DOMANICO 

5MC News Editor 
Study skills workshops, interview workshops, human sexuality workshops and Freshman seminars are only a few ofthe workshops and groups offered by the Counseling and Career Development Center at Saint Mary's. 
Career Planning/Placement 

Services and Personal Developmen­tal Counseling are provided to Saint Mary's students alumnae, faculty, staff and their families. 
Mary Elizabeth DePauw, Director of the Center explains that the program developed in 1978 when the counseling center and career center were combined. This union encouraged students to come to the center to discuss personal or career issues. The focus of tht· Center is to learn growth and planning skills through workshops, groups and counseling. 
On the personal level, students art· encouraged to talk to the coun­selors about theups and downs of college life. 'According to counselor Tony Campbell, "we work with a range of problems from suicide at­tempts to boyfriend problems." "But," he continued," the majority of the students who seck personal counseling arc dealing with one or more of the seven developmental 
tasks  faced  by  all  young  adults  
(which  arc)  a  normal  part  of  
growing up."  

Achieving competence is the first of the developmental tasks. It in­volves the development of intellec­tual and social abilities, as well as physical and manual skills. The young adult must also face the initial task of becoming aware of personal feelings and emotions. Without emotional independence mature autonomy can not be acheivcd. Of­ten, a young adult has difficulties coping with problems without the aid of others and the counselors at the Center help individuals deal with this. 
The fourth developmental task for college students is establishing iden­tity. Identity is confidence in the ability to maintain continuity. Toes­tablish this, the student must under­stand his own characteristics, physical needs and be sure of his sexual identification. 
Once personal identification is cstablished,a student should be able to express greater trust, indepen­dence and respect for others. Developing tolerance for a wide range of persons is an important aspect of this task. 
Clarifying purposes and develop­
ing integrity arc the last of the 
developmental tasks. To develop 
purpose an individual must form­
ulate plans and priorities dealing 
with interests and lifestyles. The task 
of developing integrity involves 
making one's values more personal. 
Individuals must provide a set of 
beliefs to be used as a guideline and 
begin to live accordingly. 
These developmental tasks are a 
normal part of the maturation 
process. Often college students have 
difficulties achciving them. Along 
with DePauw and Camphell, the 
Counseling and Career Develop­




-~------------, 
\ 



l\T~~S~l;J~,..=t~·=~~~=S====·\====~========================M=o=nd=a=y,=A=p=rn=6=,1=9=B=t==p=ag=e~2 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
President Reagan, still running a mild fever, received detailed briefings on the Polish crisis and paid tribute to the Secret Service agents who protect him. Visited by wounded Secret Service Agent Timothy McCarthy in the presidential suite, Reagan instructed the agent that when his children visit him, "You tell them this: their father put himselfbetween me and that guy. I'm proud there are guys around to take those kinds of jobs." The president was described as, "very alert, telling stories and laughing." Hearing about progress being mad'e by the others wounded in Monday's assassination attempt ­White House Press Secretary James S. Brady, District of Columbia police officer Thomas Delahanty, and McCarthy -Reagan said: "That's great news, just great, especially about Jim. We'll have to get four bedpans and have a reunion." -AP 
Poland's Parliament postponed the start of its spring session on grounds Premier Wojciech Jaruzelski was "temporarily indisposed," and leaders of the Soviet-led Warsaw Pact were reported considering a summit that could decide whether to intervene in Poland. Talks with Polish farmers hoping to form an inde­pendent union also were adjourned. Awestern diplomatic observer in Warsaw said there were signs of increased communications installa­tions in the Polish capital and some indication that "things are not absolutely normal." But the observer, who requested anonymity said he did not foresee a Soviet intervention. -AP 
Secretary of State Alexander M. Haig Jr., arriving in Cairo on the first leg ofhis Mideast mission, met some resistance to his proposed Persian Gulf"strategic-consensus" stretching from Pakistan to Egypt. The U.S. perception that outside threats to the Mideast are of global concern is not accepted by the Egyptians, said an Egyptian offi­cial who attended talks between Haig and Foreign Minister Kamal Hassan Aly. The official, who declined to be identified, said there was opposition to stationing U.S. forces in the Sinai Desert as a peacekeep­ing presence. He also ruled out a formal agreement for U.S. use ofthe Ras Banas navy and air base on the Red Sea for a rapid deployment force. The official said this would be the same as giving the Americans 
a base, which the Egyptians arc unwilling to do. -AP 
Gale W. McGee. United States Ambassador to the Or­ganization of American States (Pan-Amqican Union), will discuss Latin America: New Dimensions for the 1~O's on Monday, April6 at 7:30p.m. in Carroll Hall at Saint Mary's College. The talk is open to the public without charge. From 1959 to 1977 McGee served as a Democratic United States Senator from Wyoming. In the Senate, he chaired the Post Office and Civil Service Committee, and was also a member of the Appropriations and Foreign Relations Committees. The author of several books and articles on international relations, McGee has served as United States Senate delegate to the United Na­tions and several int~rnational events. He holds a Ph.D. in American history from the University of Chicago and has taught at several uni­. vcrsities, including Notre Dame. Ambassador McGee's visit is 
sponsored by the Saint Mary's government departmen( and govern­
ment club with assistance form the Organization of Former Members 
of Congress and the Charles Stewart Mott Foundation. Ambassador 
McGee will also speak to various classes during his visit to the College. 
-The Obsen•er 

A convict accused of drowning a state prison warden and fatally shooting the manager ofthe prison's farm apparently feared he was going to be beaten for breaking a rule. The suspect, Eroy Ed­ward Brown, 30, was hospitalized in good condition at the maximum­security security Ellis Unit outside Huntsville with a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the foot. Officials said Brown, serving a third term for armed robbery, will be charged today with killing Warden Wallace 'M. Pack, 54, and prison farm manager Billy Max Moore, 49. Pack ap­parent!•· was beaten and drowned, and Moore was shot to death with the w;uden's pistol. Brown tried to break free from the officials, ap­parently fearing he w;as to be taken w "the bottoms" -apart of the , prison farm -and beaten, an unidentified deputy told the Dallas .11oming .Veu•s. -AP 
Calvin M. Bower will succeed Professor William Cerny 
as chairman of the Music Department next September. Bower is cur­
rently serving as music professor at the University of North Carolina 
where he directs the Schola Cantorum, a vocal group which performs 
mc:dkval litergical pieces. Bower hopes to make this background 
work ti1r :'llotre Dame and looks forward to developing the Univer­
~il\··s potential as "the national center for development of liturgical 
m~1sic in the Catholic tradition." Cerny will continue to expand his 
radio programs presently airing in Philadelphia, Barian Springs and 
\ugustana College after his departure from Notre Dame. While still 
residing in South Bend, Cerny will do research to aid the advancement 
of the :'1/o~re Dame graduate music program.-The Observer 
Partly sunny and cooltoday with highs in the upper -!Os to low 'iOs. Fair and not so cold tonight. Lows in the mid to upper 50s. ~lostly sunny and warmer Tuesday. Highs around 60. -AP 
'The Tube' faces test 
Television is in trouble. For an industry that is based upon the creation offantasies, the fantasy ofcaptive and passive audiences is quickly coming to an end. Net­works, producers and advertisers are feeling the pressure of militantly dissatisfied audiences. 
For years, televison audiences have eagerly swallowed whatever the networks pumped out. The networks abandoned creativity for silliness and audience ratings. Imitation is the key to success. If a show worked once,'it will work again. And again, and­again. Violence and jiggle came in. Quality took a rear seat. 
Those good old days are gone. As socially con­servative groups such as the Moral Majority and the Na­tiona! Conservative Union have risen into the public's eye, the few voices that have ever bothered to protest "immoral" television programming in the past have gat­hered new strength. At the forefront ofthis movement is the Coalition fur Better Television ( CBT.) 
By June 1, the CBT will have monitored all network prime-time television programs over a three-month period. 
The coalition will compile any incidents of explicit sex, vulgarity and profane language broadcast, and list 

the 10 "most constructive" -::::;;::;:=;;;;::;:-J published this month. 
and "least constructive" programs. The CBT will then construct a "hit list" of advertisers who are judged to be insensitve to the moral character ofthe country and declare a -nationwide boycott oftheir products. 
The idea of boycotting television advertisers is not a new one. Violence on TV was the focus ofa boycott by the National Parent and Teachers Association and other education lobbies during the mid-'70s. Those groups were upset that programs like Starsky and Hutch and Baretta were teaching , children that violence was an acceptable behavior. While these shows eventually were pulled off the air, it was due 
more to old plots and tired scripts than to the effective­ness ofthe boycott. The difference today is the mood of the country. 
-People are. running scared of Rev. Jerry Falwell and his Holy Crusade. Every politician in the country shivers at the thought of being -one of Rev. Falwell's Chosen People. The conservative and evangelical groups have proven to be the most effective campaigners and lob­byists in politics. Never mind their tactics, they are ef­fective. 
Utilizing the. methods and mailing lists compiled by these groups, the CBT has a tailor-made audience for its campaign. Their boycott will be an emotional appeal to those who see moral permissivene~s as the greatest weakness ofsociety. They decry the sexual explicitness oftoday's media as the major force in the degradation of Christian values in a moral society. The same people who helped defeat Jimmy Carter, Birch Bayh, Frank Church and George McGovern will try to clean up 


,__:__The_OhserYer_ 

Positions Available For 
Design Editor ......................... Greg Swiercz Design Assistants ..................... Kim Parent 
Elizabeth Clay Typesetter ............................ Stephen Brown Neu•s Editor................... Mary Agnes Carey Copy Editors ................................. Kdli Flint 
Steve Navarre Sports Copy Editor.............. Chris Needles Typist ...., ...................................... Mike Monk S)'stems Out ofControl .............. B. Oakley SMC Day Editor ....................... Cece Baliles Ad Design ............................... Woody & Co. 
Photographer ......................... Chris Salvino Guest Appearances ........... Colorful Cathy 

Anyone interested should apply
Iowa's Legs 
No more peons 

through Student Activities
The Bore•I The Mad and the Ugly 
Deadline -April 10 




1982 DOME 

Business Manager, layout, Photography, Copy 

television's act. 
They will not be unopposed, however. Producer Norman Lear, the man who brought usAllin the Fami­ly and Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman, has formed People for the American Way, a group aimed at combat­ing the power ofthe CBT, the Moral Majority, and other evangelical/political groups. He enlisted the assistance of religious leaders around the country, including Notre Dame President Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, to counter the fundamentalists' influence and produced a series oftelevision commercials focusing on the right to free expression that aired across the country last fall. 
"I felt that something had to be done about this growing climate ofconfusion," Lear said in an interview 
"People were having views 
forced on them through the 
evangelical television shows 
and their mail campaigns. 
They were being led to 
believe that they were bad 
Christians ifthey didn't have 
certain views about gay 
rights, abortion, the recogni­
tion of Taiwan, the 
E.R.A.,etc. We addressed our 
organization to the climate, 
not the issues. We wanted 
people to believe they had a 
right to their own opinions, 
regardless of what they 
were." 
The fight h~ been fairly 
quiet so far. Sparks of 
rhetoric have floVI1n, but no real gunshots yet. The evangelicals are not taking Lear's organization lying down, though. In a recent fund­raising letter,' Rev. Falwell proclaimed People for the American Way "probably the most dangerous and vi­cious effort ever launched against the use of radio and televison for the propagating of the Gospel of Jesus Christ." 
Televison does need help. But not by Rev. Falwell and his Holy Terrors. In principle, the evangelicals have every right to wage their campaign against tasteless television. They are interested not in Christian philosophy, but political philosophy. They are hypocritical in their claims that Christianity entails sup­port for Taiwan and the dismantling of detente. They properly oppose abortion, but paradoxically support capital punishment. I resent their attempts to control the media to their own ends. Society is best served by the free expression of all ideas. While television is not even close to being perfect, it permits this free expres­sion. Rev. Falwell should appreciate that freedom more. After all, that's where he got started. 


Edi\orial Board and Department Managers
====IheO~a~==== 
Editor-in-Chief. ...............john McGrath SMC Executive Editor .....................Mary Agnes Carey
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Managing Editor.. .. .........., .......... Tom jackman SMC News Editor ................................Cathy Domanico
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Executir•e .Veu•s Editor ..............................Lynne Daley Photo Editor...................................................john Macor Jniversity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not nt~.'t'ssanh News Editor....... ...................Tim Vercdlotti ·ef1ect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report~d ,Veu·s Editor...... .. ................john Higgins Business Manager . ..................................Rich Coppola ts accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opm10n of a Senior Copy Editor.. . . . ~ary Fran Callahan Controller................. . ..................... ~ ...........Joe Multlur 
najoriti' of the Editorial Board ..Comn:entanes, opm10ns. and letters are the v1ews Sports Editor.. ......... ~ichael Ortman Adr•ertising Manager......................................Mark Ellis .f their authors. Column space ts available to all members of the community. and Features Editor.. ....... Rick Hermida Production Manager ................... Ryan Ver Berkmoes Circulation Manager ...., ................... Tom MacLennan
·e free e~ession of vary·ing opinions on campus1 through lettt'rs. is t>ncouraged. 

The Observer Monday, Apri16, 1981 -page 3 
For Fellow 
Seniors choose Hunter 

I'm speechless and for me that's quite unusuual. I'm surprised and pleased. It's really an honor. These were the words of Rich Hunter when he was told that the senior class had elected him Senior Class Fellow. Hunter, a Notre Dame profes.'IOr and coach, is the 13th per­son to be named SeniorClass Fellow. 
Hunter is known for assisting stu­dents both inside: and outside the classroom. As one student put it, He helps us out with more than just school work. I think he's a great guy. 
He's always available. 
Another student added, In his 
clas.~es he's concerned about the 
students, not just pushing through 
the material. 
A native of Belmar, New Jesey, 
Hunter received his undcgraduate 
degree from Notre Dame in Govern­
ment and lnrcrnational Studies in 
1971. In 1972, he received his mas­
ter's In International Economics 


Questions safety 

McDonnell kills Mass Assassins 
Rich Hunter 

from John Hopkins. Hunter graduated from the Notre Dame Law School in 1976. 
By ELIZABETH CLAY 
News Stuff 
"I think wt· may have goofed, allowing the.· game", James McDon­nell, director of Student Activities, said cont·c.·rning the Mass Assassins game for An Toste!. 
McDonnell said that for "reasons concc.·rnc.·d with the safety, maturity and general psychology of the ganu·... Dean Roemer has asked that I discontinue it next year." 
Me Donnc.·JJ dtc.·d several specific incidc.·nces to back this reasoning, including the report of one student hiding out in an office for an entire day. 
In a rn·ent issue of On Cmnpus Review,an article by Dr. Bruno 8et­tclhcim, a well-known child psyc­hologist, stated the harmful effects of games such as Mass Assassins. Al­though McDonnell admitted that "it seems harmless enough", he also said that this artitle emphasized the destruction such games cause. 
Concerning the safety of Mass As­sassins, Security Director Glenn Ter­ry said that "a couple of incidences that I haven't told anyone about yet" have occured. An Tostcl Chairman Mitch Feikes was unsure of the game's future. "I've heard things but he (Roemer) hasn't told me any­thing definite,"he said. 
Former Student Union Director Rich Coppolla said that most of the complaints state that "It's not in good . taste, not mature and not worthwhile for college students." He said he didn't understand why the administration was "picking on 

Hayes-Healy lecture beginsAwareness Week 
World llunger, refugees, and U.S. foreign policy will be the topic of a panel discussion presented as a part ofEast African Awareness Week. The discussion will take place at 7:00 PM Wednesday night in Room 120 llayes-llealy. 
Professors Tetteh Kofi, Charles Wilber, and Gilburt Loescher wlll address the issues of political in­stability and underdevelopment in the horn of Africa, causes of the continuing food shortages, and the increasing number of refugees. A question and answer period will fol­low the presentations. 
All arc welcome to attend. East African Awareness Week is sponsored by the Third World Com­mission of Student Government, CILA, and the World Hunger Coali­tion. 



GET INVOLVED! 
SERVICES commiSSION APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE FOR THE FOLLOWING POSITIONS: 
~ Asst. Commlsslon•r ::J Fr•• U. Coor. ::J Book Exchang• Coor. 
:J,Sp•clal proJ•cta Coor. :=J St•pan mall Coor. ::J R•frlg•rator Rental Coor. ::J On-Campus mailman 

Applications available at th• Student Union oHfc• on the S•cond Floor of LaFottune. Applications are du• Frida 
, A rlllO 
As Assistant Professor in the Busi­ness School's Management Depart­ment, Hunter teaches the Legal Environment of Business and Busi­ness Law, and a graduate course en­titled Legal Problems in Business. 
Along with his teaching responsibilities, Hunter also coaches varsity soccer. Since 1977, Hunter built Notre Dame's soccer program, and compiled an Im­pressive 77-21-3 overall record. 
Besides being a teacher and coach, Hunter also helps many stu­dents with legal matters free of charge. This is one ofthe many ways Hunter shows his interest and con­cern for Notre Dame students. Hun­ter is Supervising Attorney for the 
Notre Dame Legal Aid and Defender Association. 
Hunter will be honored during 
Senior Week. Information will fol­
low about the plans for these events 
at a later date. 
such trivial things when there's so much more to concentrate on." 

McDonnell said,"l approwd it with extreme reservations." He had , expected the game" to be limited to 
the d(lylight hours." 
\ 

Wann weather brings out new summer fashions for spring formal-goers. (Photo by Chris Salr•ino andjoejohnson) 
-, monday night film series 
Monday, April 6 

The Good, the Bad and the Ugly (Italy) 1966 Sergio Leone's dazzling spaghetti Western stars Clint Eastwood, Lee Van Cleef and Eli Wallach, respectively. 
THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 7:30pm admission $1.00 sponsored byND-SMC COMMUNICATION &THEAJRE-. 


The Observer-Continued from page 1 Monday, April 6, 1981 -page 4 
...Young 


continuedfrom page 1 

policy, which is not one that grows out of American values. Whenever the Soviet Union does something stupid, the United States has to do something more stupid." 
Young explained that he was not cyniCal about President Reagan's foreign policy. 
"The Reagan administration is sounding offon the ideology that got them elected," he said. At that time, Americans were so frustrated by the hostage situation that they forgot their-long-term values and ideologies. 
"What Secretary ofState Haig will 

ATTENTION HAllS, ClUBS S ClASS OFFICERS 
FOOTBALL CONCESSION STAND LOTTERY APPLICATIONS are now auailable in Student Actiuities, 1st floor Lafortune. 
Deadline for applying is Thursday, April 16. 
The Student Union is looking for 

Chautauqua Coffeehouse Manager 
• 
Paid Position 

• 
Book Bands 


• Oversee Shows No Experience necessary 
Applications at Student Union Office Due April 1Oth 
seen, 1t can never u~~::,_,u••~::. 90% of them women and clustered together 
a barren hillside, their only shelter small huts made of-thorn 
-.,.....,u branches, animal skins, and pieces of cloth. No one in the had received food rations in two days, and it was the next food supply truck would arrive .... 
find when he visits the Middle East is that what the Carter administration had been doing was reflective of American values. 
"We need to send people to places like El Salvador not with guns, but with political savvy. Someone who can tell them that the United States supports land reform. 
"This could be financially as well as ideologically beneficial to the l}nited States. Even if the Republicans don't believe in human rights, they do believe in money. 
According to Young, students are also guilty for the new shift to the right. "Statistically, voter~ between the ages of 18 and 30 did not vote in the elections of '78 and '80,"he noted. 
"I,nstitutions such as Notre Dame should take the responsibility to have students register to vote. Then candidates would make it a point to stop here and address politicaf issues. 
"As long as there are only a hand· ful of registered voters here, you 

have  no  impact  on  the  political  
process.  
"This  is  why  we  have  a  

'reactionary' administration. The 

continuedfrom page 1 
skills taught to acheive academic success. Accordjng to DePauw, this program has proven to be very beneficial to those who participate in it. 
Underclassmen and Seniors are urged to attend all career workshops designed to teach the skills neces· sary for successful decision making and creative job seeking. Designed especially for freshmen is the fresh­men seminar, a series of meetings giving students information on life planning and value exploration. Choosing A Major is a workshop to help underclassmen choose a. major based on their interests and skills. Workshops are scheduled regularly throughout the semester. 

country is now run by a group ofold men who are living in the past and risking the future with your blood." 
Young added that he is optimistic about the future. "Democracy has a way of swinging back into vogue. We swung about as far right as we could in the Presidential election. 
Young is a mayoral candidate in Atlanta, his home communtiy. "In terms of my professional life, there isn't anything I would rather do than be mayor of Atlanta,"he said. "I feel that I owe a few more of the productive years of my life to the development ofthat great city." 
Young stated that if elected mayor, he would not expand the search for the killer(s) of the black children in Atlanta. "By and large, anything that could be done to speed up the capture ofthe killer has already been done. I don't think that anybody other than the mothers of the !ilain children are complaining about the ~lice, and their com­plaints are legitimate." ­
"There is a realization that the 
person killing the children is sicker 
than the one who shot President 
Reagan. This situation is forcing us 
to work together." 
. Center 

For the first time at Saint Mary's, internship programs are being of. fered to juniors. Designed mainly for 
the Liberal Arts majors, the programs give students the oppor­tunity to experience the business world. Says Campbeli,You are treated as a professional, learning a 
professional skill. 
Although the internships comple­
ment the academic program, 
academic credit can not be applied · 
through the Center. However, stu­dents can ask for individual credit from their professors. Students are expected to work 1 0-1 5 hours per week. At present, there are four in­ternstups in progress. All are con­sidered to be very positive learning 
experiences. 
• • .Q&A 
continuedfrom page 1 
can cook and sew as well as we. 
Q: Do you feel that it is difficult with that many children for the children to obtain the attention from your husband and yourself 
that they deserve? 
A: Yes, it is the biggest challenge we have. As a result, what we try to do is provide quality time as opposed to quantity. We also took out the television many years ago because it destroys all kinds ofcom­munication. The parent who says I spent time with my child last night while they sat and watched the 'boob-tube' for three hours is kid­ding himself. We may only find time to go for a walk around the block with thechild, but we make sure we do that. We also, if we are going to the grocery store, take one child with us so we can have that time for just the two of us. If we're going to the dentist together we sit and talk and take advantage of the time to have a good, intimate conversation. It's a matter again, ofworking it in to the organization ofyour day. It's the most difficult for us to find that, but we do try to balance and so far we seem to be handling it. 
Q: And balancing time for your marriage at the same time? 
A: Absolutely. That's terribly im­portant. As a matter of fact our responsibility to each other, my hus­bands and mine, is the most impor­tant one, and the children know that. And second to that comes our responsibility to the children. That is where the. security lies of course, because you feel that the rock is there. And ifthat's there than every­thing else comes from that. 


The .Obsener-=--=--==-===c 


Molarity 

KE.EP COOL l FIRST BOOK5TORE 
r OK 6uYS1 THIS 

PLAY OUR GAM£, 'DON'T 
BA6KEIBALL GAr1E. 
LET ANYONE 1Nfi/111>ATE. 
YOU 




The Daily Crossword 
4/6/81

©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News.Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 

Observer Typists Meeting Tuesday SP.M. 


CHEERLEADER CANDIDATES 

IMPORTANT REMINDER 

All application forms and insurance verification must be on file in Student Activities Office 
by Tuesday, April 7, 4:00 pm 
in order to participate in tryouts. 





~<:)cJl(l~=======================M=o=n=da=y,~A=pr=il=6,=1=98=l==p=ag=e~5 

Campus 
• 
12:1 5 p.m. -lenten mass: fr. grif­fin, Ia fortune rathskeller. 

• 
4 p.m. -respect life week, film, "whatever happened to the human race," segment I, 327 madcleva. 

• 
7:00 p.m. -art exhibit, recent works of giselle batacan, isl: gallery. 

• 
7:30 p.m. -government dept. lecture, "new dimensions in the 1980's," amba.~sador gale w. mcgee, carroll hall, smc. 

• 
7:30 p.m. -respect life wt•ek, "abortion and racial genocide," erma c. craven, comm. on human rights, memorial libra auditorium. 

• 
8 p.m. -lecture, "thc:ology an liberation in south africa,' dr. alia boesak, university of west cape, south africa, haggar am.l., sponsor, theology and african studies prog. 



Doonesbury 
Garry Trudeau 

h/C TII§T MOM, YOU G07TA HAVtlf.J'T PIN HIM [)()WN ON /JI3C/f)Ef) M f)Jf!C. OJHEI?.­
vrr nt::An 1-U/SE, 'rOI/U JlJST 
'"'' ~.. 1</ZP PUTTIN6 
Michael Molinelli 


~ntE" NO-NE.c.K£'P REHOVER'"5 OF OTHER 
PEOPLE'S LIMBS': 



ACROSS 29 Measuring 
1 German instrument admiral, 33 Retrogress WWII 37 Ike's 
5 Boneup command 

9 "It" girl 38 Smell­14 Mend 39 Linear 15 Lagomorph lane 16 Mortal 40 Outrigger 17 Like sharp­vessel 
shooters 41 Give per­19 Go-between mission 20 Mum, for 42 Cavort 
one 46 Crimson 

21 Suit part Tide 22 Freeload 48 Goblet 23 Search feature 
(out) 49 Declaim 25 Kefauver 51 Prepared 27 Arab port to drive 



Friday's Solution 

4/4/81 


55 Fruitless 24 Life source 58 Exec. 26 Tallies 60 Holiday 28-hand 
time 30 Andean 61 Series end republic 62 WWIIgait 31 Jacket 64 Absent 32 Way 65 Underground 33 Festival 
door 34 Cltyon 66 Harvest theOka 67 Mountain 35 Solong 
nymph 36 Underworld 68 Sets god 69 Airport in 40 Apple 
France 42-hounds 43 Mideast DOWN emirate 1 Grain 44 Gives bundle witness 2 Norman 45 Singer 
Vincent-Della 3 Gungho 47 Italian 4 Wing family of 5 Leopard kin poisoners 6 Skates 50 Verse form 7 Rangetop 52 Inhibit 8 Dr.'s field 53 Of an eye 9 Places for part 
worship 54 Energetic 10 Bela of 55 Cher's 
films former name 11 Verily 56 Cherub 12 Called up 57 Nerve 13 Contribute, network 
ina way 59 Exasperate 18 Overthrow 62 Muffle .22 Partyfor 63 Hit show men sign 


~uno's Pizz~ 
South on US 31 to Western Turn right onto Western to Chapi Go left & take a right on Prairie 
Bruno's Pi~za ~0 Prairie-288 -3~ 


The Observer Monday, April6, 1981 -page 6 


..v• 

NBAroundup 

Rockets win, take series 
The series starts Tuesday in throws by Lionel Hollins, who was 
Houston 89, L.A. 86 Phoenix. It was the first time the deliberately fouled with 11 seconds Kings have won a playoff series since remaining as the B1.1cks desperately the franchise moved from Cincin­tried to get the ball. 
1 

LOS ANGELES (AP)-The Hous­nati in 1972. Junior Bridgeman led the Bucks ton Rockets upset defending NBA Kansas City led by as many as 12 with 32 points, while Marques champion Los Angeles 89-86 Sunday points in the fourth quarter before Johnson had 27. Maurice Cheeks to win their opening playoff series the Blazers made a final run. had 22 points and substitute Bobby two games to one, holding last year's Portland sliced the lead to three, Jones added 21 for the Sixers. hero, Earvin "Magic" Johnson to jtist 96-93, on a driving basket by Kelvin 10 points. Ransey with 1:34 to play. But Sam 
Johnson scored only two field Lacey hit a 10-foot bank shot and goals and six free throws, and it was King scored on an offensive rebound 
Celts _121, Bulls 109 
his miss with five seconds left that to put the game out ofreach. preserved the victory for the Rock­King led Kansas City with 28 ets. points and grabbed 1 5 rebounds. BOSTON (AP)-Larry Bird and 
Moses Malone scored 23 points Billy Ray Bates paced Portland with Kevin McHale ignited a third­for the winners, while Kareem 34 points, 22 in the second half. quarter burst that broRe open a tight Abdul-Jabbar topped Los Angeles game and propelled the Boston Cel­with 32. tics to a 121-109 victory over the 
The Rockets went into the Sixers 125, Bucks 122 Chicago Bulls in the opening game 
playoffs with only a 40-42 regular of their Eastern Conference NBA season record while the Lakers'' PHILADELPHIA (AP)-Julius Er­semifinal playoff series Sunday. were 54-28. ving scored 38 points, including a The lead had changed hands nine 
, The Rockets now play at San An­pair of game-winning free throws times in the third quarter before tonio Tuesday and Wednesday with 38 seconds remaining, as the Bird hit two free throws, giving Bos­nights in the opener ofthe Western Philadelphia 76ers defeated the Mil­ton the lead for good at 78-77 with Conference semifinals, a best-of­waukee Bucks 125-122 Sunday in 3:44 left in the period. seven series. the first of their best-of-seven NBA That launched an 18-4 surge that 
Mike Dunleavy threw in an IS­Eastern Conference semifinal saw the third quarter end with the footer, sending the Rockets ahead playoff series. Celtics leading 94-81. The lead
Kelly Tripucka was named MVP in Saturday's Pizza Hut All-Star 
87-86 with 15 seconds left. johnson The Bucks, Central Division never dipped below nine points the
Classic in Las Vegas. See Sports Briefs. 

dribbled up court, kept the ball and champions, led 122-121 witp 53 rest of the way. then badly missed a 10-foot jumper. seconds left after a field goal by Sid­Bird scored 13 of his game-high 
Johnson, the MVP of last year's ney Moncrief. 23 points in the third quarter when Laker championship, missed 12 of Milwaukee's Quinn Buckner, Boston outscored Chicago 40-29. his 14 field goal attempts and five of however, then fouled Erving, who McHale came off the bench to score his 11 tries from the free throw line. hit two ofthree free throws to send 21 points and block five shots. 
Philadelphia ahead. The 76ers final Chicago was led by Artis Gilmore two points came on a pair of free with 20 and DwightJones with 17. 
K.C.104, Portland 96 
PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) -For­ward Reggie King scored 20 points 


Irish women 'fantastic' 
in the second half and dominated 
play inside as the Kansas City Kings 
downed Portland 104-96 Sunday 

in W. Michigan Invitational 
and eliminated the Trail Blazers from the NBA playoffs. 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI The meet started off with Fresh­
The Kings beat the Blazers twice 
Sports Writer man Lisa Monti running a :28.11 200
in Portland to,win the best-Qf-three 
meter preliminary heat, and finish­
ing with the eighth best time among
special low summer rates: Phoenix Suns in the semifinals ofthe Neither wind, lack of experience, nor a shortage of performers the 16 team dual. While that was a
Western Conference playoffs.
available June-August 15 

prevented a strong performance 1-more than .adequate start, the real the Notre Dame women's track clu, , fun began with Freshman Rosemary 
~ in Saturday's 16 team Western Mich­Desloge's 18:32.0 5000 meter run
ROCCOS igan Invitational. -good enough for first place. "We had a fantastic meet." said "Rosemary ~ust ran an outstanding men's and WOmen's student-coach John Amato of the race." praised Amato, "It really gave sixth-place finish. "The wind was us a great push, lightened everyonehairstylmg at really incredible. It was blowing the up and set a tempo for us." high vault and pole vault equip-
What followed was a tremendouscomfortable prlceS ments alii over the place. The fact exhibition of what Notre Dame has that we ran against it and did well 
been proud of in their athletic531 N. Michigan was even more great." heirarchy -reaching back, and win­What is even more amazing is that 
ning over the odds. ~-.....;;2;;;,;3~3~-..;;4;,;:;;9..:5;..7;...,.___,, 1only nine ofthe 25 girls on the squad 
Sophomore Barbara Jacobs was 
were able to make the trip as others
for info call 171-1441 

seeded 17th out of 18 girls who'-...___________,.~ had to stay home to due to illnesses were to run in the 800 meters. But 
or exams. 

with a "gutsy" run as Amato put it, she managed to place sixth with a 
2:31.0 performance.

~-------------------------­
The Xaverian Brothers at ND 
Freshman Carolyn Woidat had
!"'""'' ·~m ·I·lifiWtJ *' i 
never CQn the 400 meter hurdles in
Peter Mahoney CFX 8759 
competition, but on Saturday decided to try it out because of the
1 Get ofree order of regular french fries II Ronald Walent CFX 3703 
shortage of Notre Dame performers
James Field CFX 8801 
at the meet.

1with the purchase of any ICD'ge sandwich: I 
"1 told her she may be making a mistake." recalled Amato, "But she 
Kenneth McCarthy CFX 3293 
Bonaventure Scully 6322
Big Moe I 
decided to go on with it. She finished fourth out ofthe 12 that ran. I never
Quarter PoUIId• I · 
saw a bigger smile than what she had
Quorler Pounder wI cheese I 
on after the race. She wanted to run

Cordially invite the Alumnrof the 
it again afterward." M..._!-k ® I 
Filet 0 Fisll 1 , I 

Xaver ian Schools: 
All this set up the dramatic 3000
Cww; ea I 
meter run by senior co-captain
St. John's Prep Danvers, Ma. 
Kathy Merra who was to compete
Expires April 30, 1981 1 
I 
against one of the top 3000 meter
Malden Catholic Malden, Mo. 
runners in the Midwest, not to men­
Westwood, Mo.
XBHS


Offer good only at McDonald's!!> 

tion 16 other runners. Merra and
Xavier H.S. Middletown, Conn. 
"the other girl" were all alone in
1519 11. Ironwood Dr. 1 
Montvale, N.J. 
front of the pack after the halfway
St. Joseph RHS 
point. T Eventually, Merra finished

South Bend, In. 1 
Brooklyn, N.Y.
Xaverian H.S. 
second with an 11:07.0 run -but that didn't stop the free ride that she received on the shoulders of her 
Mt. St. Joe Baltimore, Md.
Nobody can do it like II 
Good Counsel H.S. Wheaton, Md. 
teammates afterwards.

Leonardtown, Md.
Ryken H.S. 

"That was by far the best perfor-·



McDonald's can ..TM 1I 
mance by anyone on our team this year." said Amato, "Her previous 
St. Xavier H.S. Louisville, Ky. 
I 

to a Happy Hour Reception in the 
best had been 11:04, but she ran this 
... Limit 1 coupon per customer per visit I 
against the wind. Her time even im­

Commoner Flenner Hall 4-6
·Cash redemption value 1120 of a cent. 
1 
proved after every lap."


Apri I 9 RSVP -call one of us. 
~-------------------------~ 
... 1 





Sports c:l=l=r="=·e~{=~s===::::::;===========M=on=d=ay=,A=p=ril=6=,1=9=8l=p=a=ge::l7 
by The Ohsert't'r and The Assuciated Pru.r Kelly Tripucka was named MVP of the East 
team in Saturday's lOth Annual Pizza Hut Classic in Las Vegas. The Notre Dame senior forward scored 13 points, helping the East to an 84-82 victory. Louisiana State's Rudy Macklin hit two free throws with 
I:03 remaining to nail down the win. The game annually matches outstandingseniors from throughout the country who are chosen by a panel ofcollege basketball writers and coaches. -AP 
The NO Rugby Club will have a meeting tonight in the LaFortune Ballroom at 7 p.m. Old and new members are welcome. 
Chuck Aragon beat two Olympia'ns and broke the out­door school record en route to a second place 4:01.2 finish in the mile at the ASU Sun Devil Classic in Tempe, Ariz., Saturday. Doug Padilla, the <:urrent NCAA indoor champion in the two-mile and runner-up In the mile, nosed out Aragon with a time of 4:00.9. 
Two of the Irish standouts at Saturday's non-scoring meet at the University of Illinois were Jim Moyar, who took third place in the I,500 meters with a personal-best time of 3:53.7, and Jacques Eady who ran a third place :47.93 quarter. The Irish will try to defend their team title at the Arkansas State Invitational next weekend. 
The Notre Dame baseball team won four times at home over the weekend, and was deprived of a fifth victory when yesterday's contest at Valparaiso was rained out. On Saturday, the Irish swept a doubleheader from the University of Cincinnati by scores of 13-4 and 17·9. First baseman Henry Valenzuela cracked three home runs and drove in eight runs in the sweep, and Dan Szajko added a grand slam. Bob Barler ( 3·2) picked up his third victory in the opener, while Bill Matre ( 2-0) won the nightcap. On Friday, the Irish 
began their undefeated weekend with a 7-1, 2-1 sweep ofSaint Mary's (Minn.). TJ. Prister's eighth innning single d(OVe I the winning run in the nightcap, as Steve Witmer ( 2-1) went the distance on the mound. In the opener, Mike Deasey hurled a three-hitter and Jim Montagano added a home run to pace the 9·1 0 Irish. The Irish resume play on Tuesday with a I p.m. doubleheader with Bethel College at Jake Kline Field. Next weekend, Notre Dame plays a pair ofhome doubleheaders against Western Michigan on Friday and Xavier on Saturday. 
Signups begin April 7 f;>r this spring's interhall golf tournament and outdoor track meet. You can register by stopping by the non-varsity athletics office In the ACC, or by calling the interhall office at x7185. Tht· deiidllne for entries is Tuesday, April 14. 
In tenniS action over the weekend, the Notre Dame mt:n's team won one match, but dropped two, of the three home matches that they played. Yesterday, the Irish lost to perennially tough Michigan, 8-1. Ironically, that "one" was the first point that the Irish have scored in three years against the Wolverines in match play, as NO's Mark Mt·Mahon defeated UM's Mark Meese in number one singles play, 6-2, 6-2. On Saturday, the Irish blew away Butler, 9·0, in the only match played outside this weekend. In Friday's action, Notre Dame lost 6-3 to Iowa. Notre Dame's number two doubles team of McMahon and Jim Falvey scored impressive victories against Iowa ( 7-6 in the third set) and Butler, but fell in a wugh match to Michigan's doubles team, losing the third set 7-5. 


The Bookstore Basketball tourament  Friday's Results  NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE  
begins today. Every day, throughout the tourna­ment, The Observer will publish a slightly edited schedule of games for that evening, by location. and the previous day's results.  Ohio Wesleyan 17, ND 5 Ohio Wesleyan 4 3 2  17  Final Standings Under the NHL"s playoff format, the 16 teams with the highest pomt totals made the playolts  
Today• a Games Stepan 1 4:00-Bad Scene ... v. The Fighting Koalas 4:45-John Murphy's... v. Puker& the... 5:30-Luther& the... v. The Pretenders Stepan2 4:00-Solemn But Deadly v. Internal' I Harvesters 4:45-The Null Set v. Proverbial Societal. .. 5:30-The 5 White ... v. D. S.'s All-Stars Stepan 3 4:00-Dribbling B ... s v. Whity & the Facts ... 4:45 -Slim Whitman & the... v. Five Guard 0 5:30-Walt Garrison & the ... v. Thoroughbreds Stepan4 4:00-Excitable Boys v. The Sophlsticados 4:45-Squat's S. S. 's v. Stooges 5:30-Chainsaw& his... v. Hawk's Misfits  Notre Dame 0 2 2 SCORING (goals-assists)-OWU: Goldsmith 2· 2. Lauria 0·3, A. Boyle 2-0. K. Nugent 1·3, Tuttle 2·1, Sheehan 7-1, Borcina 2·1. Lessel1·0, Umber­ger0-2. Gilday0-1, TOTALS 17-14: NO: Levesque 1·t, L1nehan 1·1, Charhut 1-1. Pace 1-0. DurginO· 11 Campion 1·0, TOTALS 5-4. SHOTS ­Ohio Wesleyan 49. Notre Dame 28. SAVES-OWU: McDonald 9: NO: Mlchels16. Sunday's Result•  t. NY Islanders 2. St. Louis 3. Montreal 4. Los Angeles Buffalo 6. Philadelphia 7. Calgary 8. Boston Mmnesota 10. Chicago Quebec 12. Vancouver 13 NY Rangers Edmonton 15. Pittsburgh 16. Toronto  w 48 45 45 43 39 41 39 37 35 31 30 28 30 29 30 28  L T t8 t4 18 17 22 13 24 13 20 21 24 15 27 14 30 13 28 17 33 16 32 18 32. 20 36 14 35 16 37 13 37 15  GF GA Pta 355 260 110 352 281 107 332 232 103 339 288 99 327 250 99 313 249 97 329 298 92 316 272 87 292 263 87 304 315 78 314 318 78 289 301 78 312 317 74 328 32{ 74 302 345 73 322 367 71  
Stepan 5  Denison 15, ND 4  Saturday's Results Buffalo 5. Detroit 4 M1nnesota 5. St. LOUISO  
No Games Scheduled Stepan& No Games Scheduled Stepan7 No Games Schedules / Stepan& No Games Scheduled  Denison 3 7 4 2 16 Notre Dame 3 0 0 4 SCORING (goals-assist)-0: Riehi4-0. Baxter 3-4, Westerlund 0·3, John 4-0, Kaufman 1·0. Brady  NY Islanders 4, Washington t Calgary 6. Vancouver 5 Edmonton 7. Wlnnip·•g 2 Boston 5. Pittsburgh 2 Quebec 5, Toronto 5 (t1e) Los Angeles 5, Colorado 5 (t1e) Yesterday's Results  
0·1, Waterhouse 1-0, Ward t-0, Hueber 1·0. Teuma  Washington 7. Detroit 2  
Bookatore9 4:00-Buster .. , Connie ... & the Cherries v. Death  1-0, TOTALS t6·8. NO: Lynch 1·1, Levesquet-1,  Pittsburgh 5. Hartford 4 NY Islanders 7. Buffalo 3  
Row  • Charhut0-1. Bonde 1-0. Linehan 1-0, TOTALS4·3.  NY Rangers 2, Philadelphia 0  
4:45-4Jerks... v. TheOhbyte... s 5:30-SCADD v. C. C. "s Conquistadors 6:15-Happy Hourv. The C-Man & his...  SHOTS-Denison 62, Notre Dame 24 SAVES -0: Pallet tO: NO: Michels 25, Stewart 1.  St Lau1s 5. Winmpeg 5 (lie) Toronto 4. Quebec 2 Chicago 8, Minnesota 4  
Bookatore 10  Montreal4. Boston 2  
4:00-5 White Boys ... v. Geritol Exxpress  
4:45-Sieep v. Judy's Jurors  
5:30-Charley's ORA's v. P. Jack and the Casket  

6:15 -J.J.'s Team Wants ... v. 5"6" & Over ... Lyona11 
4:00-Lou's Legacy v. Briles Lites 
4:45-Hurtm· Cowboys v. Sister Polanski"s ... 
5:30-Court Jesters v. Doctors II 
6:15-Spike Jones&... v. Five Footers continuedfrom page 8 to have a great attitude that just Lyona12 
Kids • • .Kitchen 
carries over in the practices."
4:00 -3·0 Ghetto Guys v. Last Year's Champs 
"but we weren't. Twila's return During her sophomore year,
4:45-Lennon and Chapman Sing ... v. ESADMF 5:30-Yesterday·s N ... v. ROTC Jim&.. (from a year of studying in Rome) Kitchen took lessons at a club in helped us immensely. She and Rome. "I couldn't compete because 2nd Round Pairings Sharon Moore (the senior captain) I wasn't a dub member," she said. Tonight's Games provided a strong 1·2 punch. The Returning to Saint Mary's for this, 
6:00-Neptune's Nut!l and the Boob Tubes vs. 
Belles were able to defeat two teams her junior year, she compiled a 40-9
The Rock Lobsters l 6:30-The Squids vs. Steve's Team that Notre Dame couldn't beat, regular season record and won the 
7:00 -Zd's Pros vs. Jake and the Water Snakes 
Wayne State and Wisconsin; ot· Great Lakes Regional Individual title
7:30-Lust Bombs vs. The LewiS Ladies and the Stanford Studs herwise the two teams were ofcqual.-to qualifY for the nationals. Tomorrow's G•mes 
ability." Next season, Kitchen will return 
6:00-Roman Columns vs. Latsot Na 6:30-Wild Women Hunters from the Swamp vs. 
· "When I arrived at Saint Mary's, I as captain of a Saint Mary's squad 
Salamanders wanted to have the chance to com-that narrowly missed qualifYing as a 7:00-Floating Pengums vs. Barracudas 
pete in a sport," noted Kitchen, "I team for this year's nationals. With
7:30-Polo Bears vs. Rum Rats Wednesday's Games didn't want to sit on a bench and another year of experience under 
6:00 -Chaz's Spazzes vs. Garb's Army 
watch. The people (in the fencing her belt, and with a little luck, she 
6:30-Wet Ones vs.... Linguistics 7:00-.. .Whales vs. Sounds Scary but Not Much program) arc great! Coaches Greg may be at the otlwr end of some of 
7:30-BP Bombers vs. Monster Fishies Mueller (ofSaint Mary's) and DcCic-those 5-4 bouts next year. 
,----·-·---·-· -------------------·--·----·-----------------·----------·--------------------_, 
/~II • !.1~ ,,llr•!f ,1{1~ /1 d."> I tp• r•' ~~ ... ~·1 IJy 4 45 pIll hiVtJ (1J'rS ~HI()' 0Q fhp 
·~!.~~~· r~ wh11 I' tt•P .. : ,. ,.,,, The Observur offtu-• v\-dl -t~t.~~pt ,· •,p;~'''eds 
•V1tr!l0ti\ thUioltJ'"' Fo•d'h I() 00 <l r· '0 4 45 I• Ill \II, irtS!.tftfHb ·n,1s.! hP




Classifieds 
IHI'·piltfl Poi\Jpr Ill fll'f'\011 (II fhtOU~Il :ht' mdl] 
PARKING LOT TO MOREAU HALL AT SMC. REWARD. PLEASE CALL IRENE 
NEED RIDE TO PENN STATE qR 
Go to the Colleg1ate Jazz Fest1val. April TUTORS NEEDED. 
AT 4074 AT ST. MARY'S. 
ROUTE 80 NEARBY; WKND OF 11 10& tt • 1.3rd grader. general tutormg. APRIL WILL SHARE DRIVING. EX· 2.H.S. sophomore. Geometry. 
FOUND: PARKER BLUE PEN AND 
PENCES. CALL MARK 1487. ALTERNATIVE COMMENCEMENT: 3.Adull. bas1c Math. TYPING -Only$ 65 a page Call Dan, PENTEL MECHANICAL PENCIL SET JANE·O DOES NOT HATE SCOOP There will be a m• tlng for anyone In· Contact Volunteer Serv1ces. 7308 
ON GRASS IN FRONT OF O'SHAG.
272·5549. NEED 3 RIDES TO PITTSBURGH FOR terested in organizmg tor an al­.. I. ..
CALL MARY ELLEN AT 8903 AFTER 5. BUMPERSTICKER
EASTER. CALL GREG-3451 OR SUE ternative commencmenl speaker TEAl. HAPPY 19TH! HAVE A VARNET
(1) WHEN YOU SAY NOTRE DAME,
OVERSEAS JOBS -Summer-year 284-5329. Monday, April 6 at 7 p.m. in the Walsh BIRTHDAY!! WE LOVE YOU. YOUR 
I lost my room keys in an mtoxicated YOU'VE SAID IT ALL"'
round. Europe. S Amer., Australia. Hall south lounge. Call Kat1e Foy at BUDDIES Asia All fields. $500-St200 monthly. moment. I don't know exactly where I 
(2) WHEN YOU SAY IRISH, YOU'VE
NEEDED 2 AIDES TO & FROM 8082 
Sightseeing. Free 1nfo Wnte IJC. Box lost them, but I believe it to be on Green SAID IT ALL'"
CLEVELAND FOR EASTER BREAK 
52·1N4, Corona Del Mar, Ca. 92625 Field. If you find a set of keys with 1008 $2.00 each. Send check or money or­
WILL SHARE$$ CALL JIM 8700 MARY JOAN AND ANNE, 
on them please call M1ke 1474. derto: M P Dreyer.
WILL YOU COME TO OUR ROOM SO TYPING DONE IN MV HOME. UNIV IRISH" Go buy a k1te!
NEED RIDE TO WASHINGTON, D.C.· WE CAN SMILE AT EACH OTHER? 
P.O. BOX 3364
PARK MALL AREA 277·3085 
Your second· secret adm1rer 
NORTHERN VIRGINIA FOR THE BOOPER AND SON-OF-A-GUN
CHAPEL HILL, N C. 27514
WEEKEND OF APRIL 10-12. CAN 
The Jazz Fest1val is Back-Don·t M1ss The only one for UMOC OTANG IS TING!II
LEAVE ON WEDNESDAY. WILL 11-Apnlt0&11 
Jeff Jeffers is so ugly, he knows itt 
SHARE THE USUAL CALL RICH AT Is Richard Stanage 232·0982. With a face like his BASEBALL MITTS RELACED Call Greg 
Just how ugly is Jeff Jeffers? 
How does he manage? at 1740 Furnished 4 bedroom house to next 
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
NEED 2 GRADUATION TIX $$WILL 
GOODE IS BAD. GOODE IS BAD. MARKETPLACEschool year close to campus, good 
PAY$$. CALL JOHN AT 1646 OR 1787. HELP I need a room for graduation 
area. 277·3604 or 288·0955. GOODE IS BAD. Jim Goode for UMOC. Today'" LaFortuneFree canoe tnp· Are you klddmg? 
weekend! The Secret Service took all April Fool's from the Notre Dame 
I need a ride to Ballo.· Waah. for Eas­the good ones and they aren't even 
Summer houses and rooms. furnished, Bless him Father, for he has smned. He ATTENTION I 
Aquatic Soc1ety ter. Call Tim at233·5422. Will share un· graduating. Please call Tim at 233· 
walk to campus, cheap rent, 277-3604 must have... ugly doesn't come cheap. Old Tau Beta P1 Members. there w111 be
usuaL 5422. Prefer hotel In N.D. area. W1tling 1sT LOUi"sisT LOUIS I ST LOUIS I Bus to pay.
or 288·0955. · JIM GOODE for UMOC. a general meetmg Apnl 7. at 7.00 1n 
............. room 303 of the old Engr buildmg
over EASTER Call Gary at t 030 by A1ders needed to Dayton, OH leaving 
Reagan for UMOC 
UES. (4-7) to reserve or get mfo AP· FOR RENT-UGLY DUCKLING RENT· April10. Call Don 8270. In the Superstar (Dew-Pizza) Compel I· PROX COST $45 00 round tnp. lion Dan B jumped out to an early lead
A-CAR FROM $7.95 A DAV AND 7 CENTS A MILE. PHONE 259-UGLY 
Nancy for Jellybean Queen! 
Need nde to or around mid-Hudson with consecutive victories in Pac Man 
FOR RESERVATIONS BILL "GAIU" NE[LIST WAS UNGER·
Valley for Easter. Can leave early. Will and Pinball. DOD came back ho-er
Jeff Jeffers is disgusting. TAIN ABOUT RUNNING FOR UMOC
share usual. Call Maura at 7852. w1th a surprising upset victory in pool. AVAILABLE NEXT SCHOOL YEA!~: 2 ....~.. -.. PRO"EiUR'KE""'' ·············:·· DOD says, ·Just wa1t till golf. I'll kic BECAUSE HE WAS AFRAID OF FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES. NEAR NO, his hineyl" LOSING FACE HE NEEDN T WORRY LEASE, DEPOSIT 234-2626 333 PRO BURKE IT WOULD BE A TREMENDOUS IM· HE MAKES THE CHILDREN CAY!! II PROVEMENT BILL GRtzz· NELLIST
Racheal,
SAVE THOSE PENNIES FOR UMOC ENDORSED BY FLAN·LOST: LARGE BROWN DRESS BOX IN AVAILABLE SUMMER AND NEXT [_~OR __SALE j Thanks for the card. GorgROu'' FOR UMOC ­THE LOBBY OF THE CHICAGO MAR· SCHOOL: YEAR 1 AND 3 BEDROOM () 9.
PRO, YOU'RE AN UGLY MAN !II NEA H.~LL COUNCIL 
RIOT SUNDAY AFTERNOON MARCH APARTMENTS 234-2626 333 Sweens. Alph1e,andJ.P .fo D. 29 IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL 
WE WANT TO BUY A BOOKSTORE
76 AMC Pacer. Call Rose 41-4304 277-3990 Furnished 3-4 bedroom house for sum· Pugl1a.
TEAM CALL US IF YOU"AE TEAM mer, $200-mth. 233-3552. I know l"m a couple of days 'ote. but FOURTH FLOOR ZAHM: SUAF"S UPI 
WOULD RATHER DRINK THAN 
PLAY!!II CALL 1650 FOR INFOAMA·
LOST. A while cotton blazer. no but· what can you do? Anyway. I h pe you 
one, satm llnmg. Possibly left at SMC. TION . had a good btrthday and even more im­HAPPV BIRTHDAY LAUREEN LANGAN IFmder please call283·8663 portantly. I hope you remember it. THE SWEETHEART OF ALL SWEET·
,L-_TIC_K_E_TS___, 
Learn more about NATURAL FAMILY 
HEARl'S PLANNING. How to avoid or achieve Don 
LOST A navy-blue sk1 vest (3 colored ~ANTED 1 pregnancy with no pills. no risks, and
stnpes on shoulders) w1th large snap· ATTENTION CONNECTICUT VALLEY
I need 3 (that's three) graduation tick· no gu11t feelings I Informative presenta­
pocket on back Left on second lloor of ets. (Yes. folks, it's starting already.) If RESIDENTS: Do you need a aummor Q: How do you kill Vamans In
tion Monday April 6. 7:30 pm Hayes
Memonal library Tuesday n1ght If TENNIS INSTRUCTORS WANTED: Ex· you can help me, call Scoop at 1772. job? Looking tor transportation home Vukon?
Healey Aud. Everyone Welcome! 
round. contact Denise Sm1th at6766. cellent high paying Summer jobs for for you and your ppossessions? Get in­A: W1th a mooseket, he sa1d, w1th a students w1th tenn1s experience. Call 
Need EXTRA GRADUATION TIX badly volved In formrng the Connecticut Val· gleam 1n his eye and a gnn on his face. 
NEED RIDE TO PHILADELPHIA FOR
LOST SMC CLASS RING. BLUE Pat at (30t) 654·3770 
-PLEASE call Mary Patat809t ley Club here at Notre Dame For (Thanks to T1m Neely. a Vanian in his
EASTEAII CAN LEAVE THURSDAY.
STONE. ENGRAVED S.S 83 CALL Information Call 1620 and ask lor Bill. own qUiet way. lor that wondartu\Needed: A1de to Washmgton D.C. lor 
PLEASE CALL MAUREEN AT 41·5791.
284·5329. GRADATION TICKETS NEEDED CALL punchline)
Easter Can leave Thurs. A M or Wed. 
6852 IF IT WASN"T FOR GERRY FAUST"S Moose Out of Control
P M Qo!l Mllry Julre. 41-4376. STUDENT MUSICAL ACTS WANTED:
LOST SILVER CHAIN WITH MINI· FATHER, SHAWN G. WOULDNT BE 
Desperate for ndel APPLY IN PERSON AT IRISH
ATUAE SPARK PLUG ON WALK FROM HERE TODAY 
COUNTRY OR CALL 232-0111 


..... 
... 
... .· .... -' 



Monday, April6, 1981 -page 8
S}lorts 
To linebacker 
Cichyattemptschange 
By PAUL MULLANEY feel like l'm in class one day, and set its goals high, as "We'll be shoot­Sports Writer have a quiz the next. I've just got to ing for nothing less than the national go over things again and again to get championship. We have the talent to For Steve Cichy, 1980 was a disas­use to them. do it, but we've got that tough ter. "A lot of progress has been made, schedule. Everybody is affected by While making a tackle on the but I've still got a lot of things to the staff changes, but everybody is 
opening kickoff of the season's. first learn, especially in regards to tech­getting used to it. game, Cichy crushed the sixth ver­nique. But so far I've been pleased." "Coach Faust has got everybody tebra in his neck. The injury wasn't Also pleased with Cichy's 
five feet off the ground playing for
discovered until after the game -af­progress is Johnson, who ranked the 
him. I think my last two years should
ter Cichy had gone the distance in new linebacker among the most im­be really exciting."
~otre Dame's 31-10 win over pressive performers in the first week It doesn't take much to figure out
Purdue. It was Cichy's first, and last, ofspring drills. 
that Steve Gichy isn't expecting an­
gap1e of the season. 
other year like 1980. 
For Cichy. l 981 looks a lot brighter. Spring Football'81 
IRISH ITEMS: Hundreds of Irish 
"The healing has stabilized," he 
fans turned out for Saturday's open 
says. "They tell me that the only way 
practice -the last session Faust will 
I could hurt it again is to get hit in 
open to the public ... the 45-mph
exactly the same spot, exactly the Cichy realizes, however, that he'll 
winds didn't make it easy to throw 
same way, with exactly the same im­have to impress the coaching staff pact. It was truly a freak accident." right up until the September 12 
the ball, but the passing drills 
opener against LSU. With the likes of 
seemed to draw the most attention ..
Nevertheless, Cichy has his work Bob Crable, Mark Zavagnin, Rick 
. Tim Tripp, a wingback in the new 
cut out for him. Any athlete will tell Naylor and Joe Rudzinski among 
Irish offense, was highly impressive, 
you how difficult it is to bounce those competing for fall jobs, Cichy 
making several picturesque catches
back after missing an entire season. 
will have plenty to do in order to at­
on Blair Kiel tosses ... quarterback
But what will make it tougher for tain his personal goal -winning a 
Tim Koegel turned in another solid
Cichy, both this spring and in the 
starting berth. fall, is his switch from strong safety "We're very rich in talent," admits performance Saturday ... Faust and to linebacker. 
the Fargo, N.D., native. "But it really Company got through the first five "Right when I got back from 
brings us together and makes us bet­spring practices with few injuries.Christmas vacation, coach 
ter football players. Perhaps the most severe injury this (dcfensi~ coordinator Jim) 
"In most cases, if I was first team weekend was the cut that fullback Johnson told me that they wanted to 
going into practice, I wouldn't feel Larry Moriarity sustained on his chin move me to a linebacker," Cichy any pressure except to improve during Friday's practice. A few says. "He said that I would probably myself. But with six or seven solid stitches were all Moriarity needed. 
be able to help the team most at that linebackers like we have, it reallyposition. 
makes you want to improve. You "If that's where the team needed really don't have much choice." 
me, I'd play there. If things don't 
AlAW Fencing
work out there, I can always go back Cichy, who is expected to receive to strong safety." an extra year ofeligibility due to last Regardless ofwhere Cichy is most year's injury, is excited to play the needed, his physical appearance has type ofdefense that head coach Ger­



Kitchen excels in championships 
always been that of a linebacker. At ry Faust and Johnson have planned 6-2, 218 pounds, he has always been for the upcoming season. 

sociation ofintercollegiate Athletics take a 4-3 lead over the eventual na­
By BRIAN REIMER 
a menacing tackler. "We'll show a lot of different 

Sports Writer for Women (AIAW) National Cham­tional champion, )ana Angelakis offronts," he says. "Maybe we'll have a
"I guess the position is probably pionship tournament at the Angela Penn State. Angelakis, who led the
3-4 to go along with our four-man 

more suited for me, because of my Athletic Facility. Kitchen placed Lady Lions to the team title, calmly
front. We'll mix it up. We'll gamble a When Twila Kitchen arrived at 
upper body strength and the physi-· lot, and we'll blitz a lot, because Saint Mary's as a freshman, she had 21st in a field of 48 in the individual rebounded to take a 5-4 decision. cal nature of my play," he says. "But competition. After that match, Twila had to face
experience in a variety of sports,
we've got a lot of talented lineback­

I'm still going to have to work extra_ the 1979 Champion and eventual 
ers and defensive backs to cover up ranging from basketball to track, but Kathy McCann of Notre Dame, 
hard with the transition. like many other fencers in the ND­originally an alternate, was able to fourth place finisher, Joy Elligson.
if a gamble at the line of scrimmage

"At linebacker, when you get up compete when a California fencer The San jose State star won, 5-0.
doesn't pay off." SMC program (the two schools hold 
to the line of scrimmage, your in­was unable to make the trip. She With her back against the wall,
joint practices), she had never 
stincts aren't as refined. Right now I Cichy claims the team is ready to placed 46th. Kitchen faced a must-win situation
touched a foil. "We employ a step-ladder opera­A pair ofclutch 5-4 victories over against Temple's Maureen Leun. 
tion," says Irish coach Mike DeCic­Virginia Yao ofCal State-Berkely and Leun rallied from a 1-4 defecit to hand Kitchen her second 5-4 loss
co. "Our more experienced fencers Cindy Friday of North Carolina 
help our beginners improve their enabled Kitchen to advance to the and put an end to her championship hopes.
skills." With the help of two-time final 24. The field then was split into "A lot ofpeople were surprised at
NCAA champion Mike Sullivan, four groups of six, and in order to the success ( l 7 wins and three
among others, Kitchen has advanced remain in contention for the in­
losses) of the Saint Mary's fencing 

from a novice to a national cham­dividual title, Kitchen had to place in team this year," claimed DeCicco,
pionship contender. the top three in her round-robin This past weekend Notre Dame group ofsix. 
See KITCHEN, page 7

and Saint Mary's co-hosted the As-Twila rallied from a 0-3 defecit to 



By BILL MARQUARD . Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team 
received a rude introduction to the 
Midwest Lacrosse Association in 
their first weekend of league play. 
Facing the top two lacrosse teams in 
the Midwest, the Irish fell to Ohio 
Wesleyan, 17-5, on Friday afternoon· 
and then succumbed to Denison, 16­
4, on Sunday. Both games were 
played at Cartier Field. , 
Wesleyan!s Battling Bishops, who 
were ranked eighth nationally 
among Division III teams and first in 
the Midwest, jumped out to a 6-0 ad­
vantage midway through the second 
quarter and the Irish never 
threatened. jerry Levesque, Steve 
Drop2 
Irish lose·in Iacross~ action 
Linehan, Dan Charhut, Danny Pace and Kevin Campion all chipped in goals for Notre Dame. But the lrish could not thwart a seven-goal out­burst by Wesleyan's Dan Sheehan. 
The Big Red of Denison, defend­ing MLA champions and the 1Oth-rated Division III team in the nation, jumped to an early 5-2 lead until Linehan brought the Irish to within 5-4 at 5:33 of the second period. But Denison exploded for five more goals before the half ended and shut out the· Irish for the remainder of the game. 
The Irish missed the offensive punch of freshman attackman Steve Pearsall, who had tallied eight goals in Notre Dame's previous two games. Pearsall missed weekend ac­tion with mononucleosis and a dis!­
ocated shoulder and should be out for at ;east another week. Senior midfielder Carl Lundblad was sidelintd Friday with tendon probldns -in his knee and freshman midfielder Kevin Smith missed Sun­day's ~ction with a separated shoul­der. Smith is doubtful for this week's action. 
No.tre Dame's regular season record dipped to 1-3, with an 0-2 mark in the MLA. Its exhibition ledger had been 2-2. The Irish trek to East Lansing on Wednesday for an afternoon battle with Michigan State. Both Ohio Wesleyan and Dt;nison are in the MLA's College D~vision, while the Spartans will be Notre Dame's first foe in its own Uni­versity Division. 


