• • .Keenan Revue -page5 


ByJOHN M. HIGGINS 
StaffReporter 
The recent arrests ofeight underage Saint Mary's stu­dents inside Corby's Tavern may not present difficulties when the bar's liquor license comes up for renewal later this month, according to an Alcoholic Beverage Commission official. 
Local ABC Board ChairmanJoseph Szekendl said that normal procedures for renewal of the license may not be disturbed because the arrests occurred so close to the regular date for renewal ofCorby's license. 
Under Indiana liquor law, a liquor license is automati­
cally renewed unless the licenseholder has been con­
victed ofa violation within the previous year. The affect 
ofthe arrests on the current renewal is not clear. 
"The arrests may not affe<:t the license until next year," Szekendi said. "But I can't really tell until I meet with the state." Szekendi said he would be meeting with State Excise Officials at the regular Board meeting tomorrow. 
The students were arrested last Friday evening after South Bend Police officers entered the bar at 1026 Corby Street. 
"We had received a number ofcomplaints about un­derage drinkers In Corby's," Special Operations Captain Walter Benninghoff said. "An officer inside observed a number of underage people. We called in more officers 
a~oo made nine arrests." Students Colleen Rooney, Patricia Brandy, Laura Potts, Kyle Woodward, Brigid Streb, Patricia Wrenn, Eileen Heidkamp, and Mary Agnes Muldoon were charged with possession ofan :llcoholic b'~vcrage by a minor. Corby's bartender Kurt Bottjcr was charged with sale ofan alcoholic beverage to a minor. The nine were released on bail and arc to appear in Circuit Court later this month. · After their arrest, the students were transported to St. Joseph County Jail, where charges were filed against them. They were eventually released after posting SSO ball, but not before they were strip-searched by female corrections officers. 
An officer at the jail said that the strip-search was standard procedure for anyone entering the general prison population. 
Attorney and Notre Dame faculty member Richard 
Hunter termed the procedure "legal, but a little 
ridiculous." He speculated that the search was con­
ducted to "humiliate and embarass the students." 
Hunter urged students to protest "this demeaning 
treatment" by registering their disappoval with South 
Bend Prosecutor Michael Barnes. 
Saint Mary's Director ofResidence Life Sr. Karol Jack­
owski said that the College would take no disciplinary 
action against the students. 
Hesburgh co~nrnents on issues 
Tbe following Is the second part of a two-part Q&A with Fr. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, as lnteroieU'ed by Ob­serverStaffReporter Dat,id Sarphle. 

A: I don't think so. I think this school has a definite charactt·r, and I think that right now you can visit hack and forth in the halls for halftht· day. It set·ms to me that peoplt-have to sleep sometime and study and go to dass sometime, and that's a pretty big chunk of the day to he able to visit freely. I don't know why it has to he larger. I doubt that the Trus· tt·es would make it any larger. In fact , when the students applied for it, ment of a sheltered life, but I think there was no visiting at all. They said that's necessary for a student. I think that If the Trustees would give them these arc 4 great years that students this much, they wouldn't ask for will look back on with great joy. more. 
Q: What should America do In tbeQ: What Is the administration future if an embassy takeoverdoing about off-campus crime? 
similar to the one in Iran occurs? 
A: I think there's crime throug­hout the whole country. We don't A: I think each case is a particular have a corneron crime here in South case, and there's no way on earth we Bend, Indiana. I think people who can sit here now and say what they live off-campus live in the real should do in a hypothetical situa­world. The real world is a world tion. The fact is we're constantly where there is crime. I spend a good having troubles with our embassies. deal of time in cities like New York We had trouble in Khartoum; they and Washington, and you can't walk killed an ambassador and some of down those streets late at night the staff people. We had trouble in without exposing yourself to crime. Colombia, and the negotiations Of course in a time of depression went on for a month or two before there's always more crime, because they freed the ambassador. We're 
people become desperate. I think constantly having Americans killed there's more crime now, because throughout the world who get we're in a depression. caught up in one revolution or anot­
Q: Doyou think students at Notre her. We just lost 6 people in San Sal­Dame lead too much ofa sheltered vador, several ofthem nuns and one, existen<.·e? a Catholic religious worker. They 
A: First of all, students at Notre won't be coming back, because they Dame are home for a third of the were killed. year. Even during the school year 
students go around town and to Chicago. I think there's a certain ele-
Claims ofterrorism 
Reagan critlclsrns stlng Soviets 
New SBP election rules were among the topics discussed at the every American charge against Mos­StudentSenate meeting last night. See related story on page3. (photo cow will be rebutted. by Anne Fink) A special statement issued Mon-
Winter storm warnings translate to battery warnlngs...and trouble. (photo by Anne Fink) 
President Reagan commits troops to South Koreans 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan promised South Korea yes­terday that the United States will maintain its troop strength in the Pacific region and its long commit­ment to defend South Korea "against aggression." 
Reagan told the visiting South Korean president, Chun Doo-hwan, that "our special bond of freedom and friendship is as strong today" as it was 30 years ago. 
During remarks after a one-hour meeting with Chun, Reagan made clear that his administration will give high priority to its relationship 
with South Korea, which had suf­
fered strains during the four years of 
the Carter administration. 
By inviting Chun for a visit ahead 
ofleaders ofmajor U.S. allies, Reagan 
also showed his administration has 
confidence in the Chun govern­
ment, which seized power in a 
military coup following the assas­
sination of President Park Chung­
hce in October of 1979. 
The United States maintains a 
military force of about 39,000 in 
South Korea. Former President Jim­
my Carter withdrew several 
thousand U.S. troos in 1979 to the 
dismay of the Korean military, and 
Chun wanted assurances that 
Reagan wouldn't resume a 
withrawal policy. 
Speaking to reporters with Chun 
at his side, Reagan said he has 
assured the Korean Ieder that "the United States will remain a reliable and Pacific partner and we shall maintain the strength of our forces In the Pacific." 
Reagan said U.S. Asian allies, including South Korea, Japan, Australia and New Zealand, "will have our continued support as our 
European allies have." 
For his part, Chun said: "President Reagan has given his firm assurances tlu the United States has no inten­tion of withdrawing the American forces in Korea. I am pleased that the present level of the United States military presence in Korea will be maintained." 
Chun said U.S forces provide "a vi­tal and indispensable contribution to not only peace in Korea, but peace and tranquility in the North­east Asia region." 
Reagan and Chun met for an hour, and lhen Rt·agan held a luncheon in Chun's honor in the White House Red Room. Also attendingtht· lunch­con were Vice President George Bush, Secretary.of State Akxander 
M. HaigJr., National Security Adviser Richard Allen and Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger. 
Matlock has bet·n in charge of the 
U.S. mission in Moscow since the Carter administration's ambassador, Thomas Watson. left here Jan. 15. President Reagan has yet to appoint a successor. 


By THOMAS KENT 
AP Moscow Correspondent 
The Soviet Union has been severe­ly stung by Reagan administration claims that the Kremlin is in league with international terrorists and ha.~ struck back angrily at what it calls an "anti-Soviet campaign" in the United States. 
Senior Western diplomats here said Monday that Soviet officials have dispensed with any idea they might have had about extending a "honeymoon" period to the new foreign policy team in Wa.~hington. The diplomats predicted virtually day by the Soviet state news agency Tass said "any allegations about the Soviet Union's involvement in ter­roristic activities represent a gross and malicious deception. They can­


not but cause feelingS ofindignation and legitimate protest in the Soviet people." 
The statement began, "Soviet leading circles have taken note of a new anti-Soviet hostile campaign being unfolded in the United States." This indicated the statement was ap­proved at the highest official levels. 
A senior West European envoy said the Ta.o;s comment "goes beyond the level of ordinary propaganda, and is a very serious thing." 
The news agency statement was a partial response to last WedneSday's allegation by Secretary of Stat<· Alexander M. HaigJr. that the Soviet Union supports policies that "foster, support and expand international terrorism." 
Some Western diplomats here said they saw Haig's stance -and Reagan's comment Thursday that Soviet leaders reserve the right "to commit any crime, to lie, to cheat" -as legitimate expressions of American irritation with Soviet 
policies. 
_______.. 
• 




l\T~~Scj5J==t:==i=~~~=S=========*======================T=ue=sd=a=y,=F=eb=r=u~==3=,=19=8=t==p=a=~:l2
by The Observer and The Associated Press 

Asplashofrain yesterday helped quench the thirst ofthe urban Northeast, where a record drought this winter has raised the specter of taps running dry and tank trucks on street corners doling out drinking water by the bucket. But much more is needed. The water levels are seriously low in an Atlantic Coast region that forms a rough semi-circle from Baltimore to Boston -with New York City in the middle -despite threats and fines and doomsday warnings~ A storm that swept through the Midwest over the weekend, leaving up to 9 inches of snow in some areas and as many as 11 people dead in weather-related accidents, brought some relief to the area yesterday, but it was, at best, a drop in the bucket. Rainfall in New York City and much of the surrounding region averaged about three-fourths of an inch in the 24-hour period ending at noon yesterday. In Greenwich, Conn., a wealthy community ofwooded estates and shiny luxury cars where people are accustomed to buying what they want, there was only a 19-day supply of water left at the week's end and oficials were warning they were on the brink of"Condition Red." That's when tht· water will be shut off to all but a few outlets, such as hospitals and nursing homes. -AP 
Government and defense lawyers yester­

day gave jurors in the court-martial of Marine Pfc. Robert Garwood a clear choice between believing American prisoners ofwar who were in captivity with Garwood or psychiatrists who evaluated him years later. The collaboration case, the first of a Vietnam POW to be heard befon: a jury, began Nov. 14. It adjourned yesterday during closing arguments by the defense, and was expected to go to the jury today after the dc:fensc: completes its statement. Defense lawyerJohn Lowe, who has based his case on the prrmise that Garwood was driven insane: during captivity, said yesterday that the prosecution must prove Garwood was not insane. He said he h:td shown a reasonable doubt about Garwood's ability to know right from wrong. "The bur­den is on the prosecution to prove that Bobby Garwood did not have mental disease and did not have his capacities to appreciate his criminality impam·d," Lowe said. Maj. Werner Hellmer, senior prost-cution counsel, ridiculed psychiatrists who said Garwood was driven insane by his captors and said there was little evidence of serious mental illness during the Marine's captivity. Hellmer said Gar­wood was sane and knew what he: was doing when he wore the Viet Cong uniform and carried a rifle for his captors. -AP 
Bilingual education _was scrapp~~ ye~te~­

day, as Education Secretary T.H. Bellmxed the Carter admm1strauon s controversial proposals that would have required the nation's schools to teach youngsters in their native language. Bell said the rules proposed by his predecessor, Shirley M. Hufstedler, were "harsh, in­flexible, burdensome, unworkable and incredibly costly." The rules Mrs. Hufstedler proposed Aug. S never took effect because Congress blocked her from making them final. The rules would have mandated that children with limited or no ability to speak English mu~t be taught basic courses -such as reading, math and science -in their native language: along with instruction in English. Bell told reporters federal Jaw specifically states the Education Department must not usurp state 
and local control ofeducation. He criticized a portion ofthe proposed rules that would have forced schools to get special permission to deviate from the government-approved program for teaching English. Bell said President Reagan is "in full support" of the decision to dis­card the proposed rules. -AP 

The U.S. ambassadorto El Salvador, Robert 
White. has been relieved of his post by the Reagan administration because White voiced policy disagreements with Washington through the press rather than through private channels, a sen~or Sta~e Department official said yesterday. White's removal follows h1s pubhc criticism ufproposals made by members ofthe Re~ga~ transition_team for dealing with the Central American nation, wh1ch IS beset by mter­nal turbulc:nce and dissent. White, who is in Washington "forconsulta­tions." is the: first career ambassador to be removed from his post by thl' nl'W administration. State Department officials said White has not bc:t·n tired from the Foreign Service. But they said he has declined offers of another senior position in the State Department and of the 
opportunity to make farewell calls on El Salvador's seni?r o~ci~l~. That leaves White without an official assignment. The officials sa1d It IS presumed that if he does not accept an offered post within an un­specified period oftime, he will probably resign. -AP 
Punxsutawney Phll, the famous weather forecasting groundhog, yesterday poked his head out ofa burrow atop Gobbler's Knob, saw his shadow and predicted six more weeks of winter, according to his interpreter. "Sco-co-colese. Eeny meeny miny mo," Phil reportedly told Charles Erhard, president of the Punxsutawney Groundhog Club, and the only man who claims the ability to translate the groundhog's predictions. "At 7:27 a.m., the king of all weather prognosticawrs seemed temporarily confused by the unpredictable nature: ofthe winter thus far," said Erhard, after rapping on the door of Phil's heated burrow. "But Phil definitely saw his shadow. There will be six more weeks of mild winter weather," said Erhard, wearing tails and a silk hat. As Erhard made the prediction, a crowd of a few hundred who braved wet snow and c_hilly temperatures, booed loud­ly. No shadow, so the legend goes, would have meant an early spring. 
-AP 
Mostly cloudy and very cold today with a 20 per~ent chance of snow flurries. High in the mid to upper teens. Low tomght zero to S above. Becoming sunny and not as cold tomorrow. High in the upper teens to low 20s. -AP 

Numbers tOo big to ignore
.. 
The capacity crowd at last weekend's Keenan Revue was suitably appreciative ofthe lighthearted and some­what biting spoof of life in Domedom. Keenanites deserved the plaudits they received for their efforts to reduce everyone in the ND-SMC community to objects ofsympathetic hilarity. 

It seemed at times that women were an especially favorite target of these skits. NO women were portrayed -though not maliciously -as consumers of excessive amounts of either food, men or steroids. So­called "SMC chicks," on the other hand (the left, in fact) were depicted as single-minded shrews in hot pursuit of engagement rings with men attached. 
These are all stereotypes, of course, made more laughable by the fact ~hat no one believes they com­pletely represent reality. However, the fact that they exist at all -never mind that they enjoy the popularity they do -indicates that sexism is alive and well at Notre Dame. 
Indeed, sexism is a, universally popular thought­
mode, even in these "enlightened" times. And now the 
Reagan administration threatens to oppose the Equal 
Rights Amendment, as well as legalized abortion. Al­
though the merits ofboth of these issues are debatable, 
they represent a concerted, long-term effort by feminist 
lobbies all over the U.S. 
This clash between the Reagan administration's ideological conservatism and the feminists' enthusiastic liberalism will be a crucial one for the women's move­ment. Unfortunately, from a female perspective anyway, the extremists on both sides are now dominat­ing the conflict. Feminism has moved into the realm of extremist social science and proponents of women's rights have ceased to promote minor reforms. Sweep­ing changes in the structure of society are as much a part ofthe current feminist platform as is support ofthe ERA. 
As the trend continues, it becomes apparent that the "new feminism" is hand in hand with a strong socialist philosophy. One noted feminist, California social scien­tist Bettina Aptheker, insists that we are now in an "era oftransition from capitalism to socialism." She does not see the problems of oppression disappearing with the advent of Marxism, but, she says, "Marxism is com­mitted to the equality ofwomen." 
A history professor at the University of California at Santa Cruz and San Jose State College, Ms. Aptheker is writing a book called Women's Legacy: Interpretive Es­says in U.S. History. This work, which depicts women as victims of male domination through the evolution of capitalism, will reve~J ""hat she terms "the invisibility of women in history." 
As women are scrutinizing the past, so are they plan­
ning for the future. Socialism, should it ever displace 
capitalism, would most probably benefit the women's 
movement greatly. As Ms. Aptheker notes, "in virtually 
all socialist countries, tremendous strides have already 
been made in implementing concepts of economic, 
political and social equality." This equality, for ex­
ample, ensures that day care facilities are plentiful and 
readily available. 
Another alleged asset of socialism for women, 
according to feminists, is that this system generally 
deals more severely with the sex offender. In the Soviet 
Union, for example, defendants in rape cases are 
presumed guilty until proven otherwise. And the be­
havior of the victim is never an issue as it so often is 

~The.Ohs.enr..er_ 
Design Editor ............. Ryan Ver Berkmoes Design Assistants ............... Maura Murphy Rich Fischer Layout Staff............................... Kim ParJ:nt · Jeff Moore, Alex Severino Michele Diet> Kim Kohl Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor .............................. Lynne Daley Copy Editor ........................ Tim VerceUotti Sports Copy Editors .................. Dave Irwin 
T.J. Prister Typist......................................... Katie Bigane Systems Control .................... Tim Debelius 
ND Day Editor .........................Cindy Jones Photographer....................... Tim MeKeogh Ad Design ............................... Woody & Co. 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


here. 
All these reforms are still a gleam in the eyes of feminists all over the U.S. But if the prototypical feminists continue their march to the left, while the rest of the country meanders right-ward, even the small gains women have realized could be lost. A group that was once proud ofits indomitable "suffragette" image is fast becoming an elitist collection ofradical, unbending women who are alienating less-dedicated social refor­mers. 
As the struggle wears on, it seems as though feminists are growing weary at the Jack of response their efforts have generated among the more straight-laced female population. Sentiments of anti-male paranoia are permeating feminists' directives. This in turn serves on­ly to divert even more borderline supporters from the cause. The issue of women's rights, it appears, has lost its momentum. 
What the feminism movement needs now is the in­jection ofmore moderate blood. Many females shun the "liberated" label, saying they are content with their lives. This is not only ridiculous, it is ignorant. Every woman who enjoys benefits fought for and won by feminists groups -such as voting, owning property, maintaining her maiden name or even attending the once-male bastion ofNotre Dame -owes a debt to the women's movement. These debts are being called in now, while feminisn is still recovering from Reagan's victory. New, less extreme blood will dilute the help­less hatred that female leaders feel toward the capitalist caste system. 
Maybe women will have to wait four years for a new 
administration before any gains can be realized. In the 
meantime, the Keenanites probably had the right idea. 
By laughing at so-called female weaknesses, we can 
prove we are above them. 


Observer Notes_ __, 
As a public service, The Observer publishes short press releases, better known as blurbs, submitted by campus and local organizations. All blurbs must be turned in no later than I p.m. ofthe afternoon prior to publication, and they must be typed, double-spaced, or they will not be accepted. Blurbs, unfortunately, are not guaranteed publication, and are run only on a space-available priority system as designated by the news editors. We remind that The Observer alone should not be relied upon to publicize events -to ensure some mention ofyour event, submit a separate 
entry to the Campus section of the paper. 

----~ 

The Observer Tuesday, February 3, 1981 -pag~ 3 
~~=-~--------------------------------------­
Senate rep proposes escorts 

ByEARLRIX 
News Staff 
A proposal for a student-run escort service and the finalization of rules for the upcoming student elections were the main topics of discussion at last night's Stu­dent Senate meeting. 
District 3 Representative Patrick Borchers presented a detailed proposal for a student-run escort service. The proposal suggests that Notre Damt· men would be available on a rotating basis in the library lobby to walk women to their homes, both on and off-campus. This service would bt· availablt-Sunday through Thursday, from I 0 p.m. to I I :4<; p.m. An on-call service would also be available for women who need an escort from on­campus I<Kations. 
Thc Senate rcsoiVt·d ro prt•st•nt the proposal at tom­morrow night's HPC meeting and urged the HPC to act on it, since it would he through the hall presidcnts that tht· proposal could be impkmt·nted. 
After some haggling between OIHID director Tom Phillis ami other Senate mcmht·rs. the Senate arm:ndt·d tht· SBP-SBVP and studt·nt senate elenion ruk·s to in· dude the li>llowing: "Tht· Senate has a right to invcs· tigate all dcuions." ant!. "The Senate has a right to call new elections." 
An organizational meeting will he held on Feb. 4 at 7 
p.m. in tht· ~tudent govt·rnmt·nt offices f<>r all students interested in running for SBP-SBVP. A meeting for per­
sons interested in running for the Student Senate will he Discussion about a night~)' student escort hdd at 7 p.m. on Feb.<;. 
serr1ice continued this U"eek a/the S/Utlenl Senate meeting. (photo b)• Anne Fink) 
University reviews FLOC boycott 
ByJOHN M. HIGGINS 
StaffReporter 
A committee of University offi­cials will decide this week if the llniversity-widt· boycott of Campbcll and I.ihhy food products will continue. The committee has received written arguments from the two groups involved in the issue, tht· Farm I.ahor Organizing Commit­tee (FLOC), whit-h is organizing the boycott, and Camphdl Soup Com· 
pany. 
Tht· hoycott was implcmcntt·d last yt·ar ahcr student approval of tht· issut· during tht· l't·hruary stu­dcnt govcrnmcrH dcctions. The { lnivcrsity agreed to ahidc hy the hoyt·ott for one yt·ar. at which point the issue would he rt'\'it"I\Td by a t:ommittcc to dt'l'itlt· whctht·r to umtinue thl' hoycott, t'ntl the hoyt·ott, or c..·all· for anothn referen­dum. 
Dire<:tor of :"-ltudt·nt At'tivities .James ,\1t'Donndlt·xplained that the purpose of the t·ommitttT is to "ensure th;~t tht· t:nivt'fsity knows what it is ~upporting when it says 'yes' or 'no"' to a n·qucst to ohscrve a hoyt:oll cfti>rt. 
The review conuntttcc consists of various adminbtrators under the Ollke li>r Stutlt·nt Affairs: Vice­President of Student Affairs Fr. John Van Wolvlcar, Assistant Vit:e­Prt·sident of Student Allairs Fr. Gn·gory Greene, McDonnell, Dean of Students james Roemer, Acting [)ircctor of Campus Ministry Fr. John Fitzgerald. Director of !lousing 
Fr. Michael Hcppcn, Dirc<.·tor of the 
Center for Experiential Learning Fr. 
Don:rld McNeill, Director of Volun­
teer Services Organization Sr. Judith 
Anne Beatty, and Director of 
Minority Student Affairs Edward 
Blackwell. 
The boy<.·on referendum was the 
culmination of two year's efforts by 
the FLOC Notre Dame Support 
Group. After the issue was turned 
down because ofa low voter turnout 
in 1979, FLOC intensified their ef­
forts towards student approval of 
the issue the following year. 
FLOC is a farm labor union mainly 
rt·prcsenting migrant t:rrmworkcrs 
in Ohio, Mkhigan, and Indiana. In its 
dispute with Campbell and I.ibhy· 
McNeil-Libby, FLOC omtcnds that 
the companks have a responsibility 
for tht· farm workers hccausc of the 
c:mnt·rics' "monopolistic buying 
practices" in Ohio. In I97H, 2,000. 
Ohio tarmworkt·rs p:lrtkipatt·d in a 
FLOC organized strrkc in 11dds un­
der contract with Campbell and l.ih­
hy. 
HOC .~ays tht· companies dktatt' 
tht· prict· of the tomatoes tht·y pur­
chase to independent 'farmers, 
!caving no room for negotiation.,. 
"There is no bargaining involvnl," 
FLOC National Boycott Director 
Candace Rausch said. 
"The farmers can't afford to pay 
the workers any more hccause their 
hands arc tied by tbt· companies. 
There's no one else to sell to. It is 
bc;cause of this exclusive control of 
the marketplace FLOC believes 
Campbell and Libby havc a respon­
sibility for the farmworkers," Ms. 
Rausch said. "We arc dcmanding 
that Campbell and Libby recognize 
FLOC as n:prescnting the 
'., 
'-:,·' 



[)fAll~§ §(11()() 
IIJI§()Al'.fii3J
Ja()() 11()1l' (r()§§ (§,..() 'laJ() fl§lif:r8a()() lf:..tiCIII§''aJ() i>CIIl~i:>()lll "a()() l)~cll11 

farmworkcrs and that I'LUC have a voict· in the st·tting of priccs." 
Campbell Director of Corporate Rdations Rodger Duncan, however, says that the company no longer deals with tarmcrs who utilize manual pitking methods. After tht· 197H strikes, Campbell hq~an put­ting a daust· in thdr contracts with tht· farmt·rs specifying that they use mechanical pickers. 
"The issue is moot, tht· larml'Cs we huy from usc only mechanical pick­ers," Duncan said "The farmers have to mechanize to stay in husiness. It's all a matter ofeconomizing." IIt· also emphasized that Campbdl nt·vcr at·· 
tually employed  any  farmworkcr~  
dirtTtly.  
But,  Ms.  Rausch  dcnit-d  that  

manual lahor has ht·t·n completely diminatt·d. She explained that mt·t·· hanical pickt·rs t·annot tliffi:rentiatt· between ripe and unripc protlll(:t·. A., a result. she daimctl, lahort·rs art· being used t·arly in tht· growing season to harvt·st tht· small propor· tion of ript· product·. 
Dunt·anuc..:t_Jwmt·ntcd that the n;t­tional hoycott has been ineffi:ctivc. "We haven't kit it at all," he said. "Participation in our Labels For Education program," in which schools and churchcs colkct Campbell soup Iahc:ls and exchange tht·m li>r audio-visual equipment and whic has bct·n a li>cus of the FLOC hoycott, "is up over 20/." 
Rauseh viewed the hoycott dif­ferently. "Our boyt·ott groups arc bn·oming very strong in the Mid­west and on the East Coast." she said, "If it's not affecting them, why are they lighting hack so much harder 
now?" 

Wl()~f§()4l'-. fll)Ia()() Ste~llf()rcl 
lal() I()IJtn8a()() I).Jl. 
8aJ() (CI~CIIICllJ 

111lJ~§()Al' • 1113 ~ 
Ia()() 11()1l't:f()§§ (IIIII()) e111cl §t. ~lllt:f:llt Cit 11()1, ((()§§laJ() ,..(),,.,,~:, 
8a()() I l'()ll' ''8aJ() t1()we~rcl C)a()() (ctrre>• 

IMPORTANT-Mardatory News Reporters meeting Wednesday Night, 
6:30 pm OBSERVER Office 
Posters! 
Thousands of large and small posters to choose from. Cover your bare walls or peeling plaster. 
RIVER CITY RECORDS 
50970 US 31 North 277-4242 Open until 1 0 every ni ht 

lice SfwleH! LIKiaK !teed& 60-llte depwltdlte peeph 60Jt 
PMfelt 'Ot\fltihafimt 9tQJ & SigKUfJ 60JUM.6 oooi£ahfe Ut S.U. 066iee 2JuL 6ewt .Caf~V~Uuce 





--------------------------,I
I"'' .. RIVER CITY ~CORDS 
I:UE:Northern Indiana's Largest Selection of Albu!T,Is & Tapas. I 1·· . Why pay more any place else? · · I 
I $l 00 OFFfany regul~r ~ecord or tape with ad. I
I Ltmtt 1 per person 1
I • • E,.;,ires Feb. 22, 1981 I
I 50970 US 31 North eOpen till 10 every night I 
13 miles North of Campus e ND/SMC checks cashed 1 
1·next to Al's Supermarket up to $20 9ver 1 ·purchase amount J
I · 277-4242 eRecord Crates available
I 


--------------------------· Successful careers Don't Just Happen 
. ,... 

At the Institute for Paralegal Training we have prepared over 4,000 college graduates for careers in lnw, business and finance. After just three months of intensive training, we will place you in a stimulating and challenging position that offers professional growth and-expanding career opportunities. As a Legal Assistant you will do work traditionally performed by attorneys and other professionals in law firms, corporations, banks, government agencies and insurance companies. Furthermore, you will earn graduate credit towards a Master of Arts in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law for all course work completed at The Institute. 
We are regarded as the nation's finest and most prestig· ious program for training legal specialists for law firms, business and finance. But, as important as our academic quality is our placement result. The Institute's placement service will find you a job in thecityofyourchoice.lfnot, you will be eligible for a substantial tuition refund. 
If you are a senior in high academic standing and looking for the most practical way to begin your career, contact your Placement Office for an interview with our representative. 
Wewillvisityourcampuson: MARCH 2, 1981 
Recruitment will be taking place on St. Mary's Campus 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 


(Operated by Para-Legal.lnc ) 
Approved by The American Bar Association Programs Earn Full Credit Toward M.A. in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law. Ac -ooae 
The~========~~~~================:========== 




~«:)c:t~~=======================T=ue=sd=a=y,=F=eb=ru=ary==3=,1=9=81===p=ag=e=4 
Campus 

• 
3:30 p.m. -computer mini­course, fundamentals of programming, session 1, 11 5 ccmb. 

•4: 
15 p.m. -meeting, place­ment bureau will discuss job opportunities for government majors, 102 o'shag. 


•7,9,11 
p.m. -movie, "spy who loved me," carroll hall,1 smc. 

•7 
p.m. -meeting, n.d. management club, 120 hayes­healy. 


•7 
p.m. -discussion, american political forum, "education and the inequality ' of public schools," 108 o'shag. 

•7 
p.m. film series, "chaplin's mutual films," annen­berg aud., snite museum. 

•"':30 
p.m. -ladies of notre lame, newcomers' eve (tour of the snite museum ofart), chair­person: carol porter. 

•7:30 
p.m. -charismatic euc­l)ariM, log chapel. 

•to 
p.m. -fasters' mass, lmward hall chapel, fr. mcdonagh. 



Doonesbury 
Garry Trudeau 


Molarity 
OUR 5?~~61-/IP a?ASI1£P CN THE. SURFACE OF A SrRANGE PLA~ET 

Peanuts 
WHAT DO l(OV 1-\AVE THERE, SIR? 


IT 5E£ME.D 8AR>RE"N' 
A~D 'DE!:£RT'EP... LJNTIL WE F"OUNl> E.V/DENCE o;=­INTELLI~ENT LIF'E 

IT'S A BOOK ON FIRST AID, MARCIE 

Applications Now Available For The Position Of _______....,. 
STUDENT UNION 
COFFEEHOUSE lltfANAGER 
Applications and job descriptions are 
available at the S. U. Offices on the 
2nd floor of La Fortune. 
Completed applications are due by Feb. 6 
AND HUH;W5 PLAYIN~ IN THI::" F/EI..PS 

!-(ERE'S THE CHAPTER I WAS LOOKING FOR ... 

Michael Molinelli 
BUr 1li£N OUR 5~LL BANI> WA6 CAPTUR£1> 
'!1>u'IIE Ll)t.J('{ t..JE Dlr»/f C<4TCii YDU &.Jo1lf A I(£Gr! 


Charles Schulz 
''W~AT TO DO IN CASE OF STUPIDIT'(" 



The Daily Crossword 
© 1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 

54 Vocation 13 Undressed 57 Garland skin 58 Drainpipe 23 Meriwether 
die 25 Soft 59 Newspaper 26 Aid 
item 27 "-.yellow 60 Fuel ship ribbon ... " 62 Colleen 30 Moving 63 Ina dlf· lower 
ferent 31 Diminutive 
manner suffix 64 Astonish 32 Disorder 65 Moneyin 33 Giveup 
the pot 34 Bard's 66 Hart river 67 Had the 35 Iter 
courage 37 Jeweled 68 Similar: Fr. headdress 39 Pilaf item 
DOWN 41 Mast 1 Urgency 44 Starlike 2 Large 47 Bakery 
artery item 3 Choking 48 -at 4 Distress (scorn) 
signal 50 Unit of 5 Caution length 
color 51 Worn out 6 Untouchable 52 -Rica 7 Albert and 53 A Ford 
George 54 Campus 8 -Yutang f1gure 9 Avidity 55 Competent 
10 One who 56 Go up 
receives 61 "-Yankee 11 Cassini Doodle..." 12 African 62 West or 
land Murray 
ACROSS 1 Bridgebid 5 Pippin 
10 Ostenta· tlous act 
14 Newspaper section, for short 15-Theresa 
16 Wings 
17 Sins 
18 Fetch 
19 Shout 20 Depot: abbr. 21 German article 22 Judicial writ 24 Arar 
28 Tar 29 Heinrich the poet 30 Rep's 
opponent 33 Visitor 36 Allowto 
visit 37 Malde­38 Landlord, 
sometimes 40 Helps 42 Completed 43 Before take 
or lead 45 Voids 46 Sch. subj. 47 Agreements 49 Exist 50 Adit 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 




---------------------------~ 
Tuesday, February 3, 1981 -page 5 




Features 
Revue sports annual magic 
T
here is magic in The Keenan Revue, and that magic surfaces in the production's consistency. Annually, fresh talent appears -polished and crystallized to a zenith. The Revue, funded by the Keenan Hall treasury, is definitely an eloquent undertaking. 
Bringing together a majority ofa residence hall (a true feat when one considers how schedules vary), seriously rehearsing for only one week, and then linking 

(photo byjohn Macor) 
over a score ofacts together into one production is an 
accomplishment to be comn.ended. DirectorsJim 
Bu7.ard, Bob Battk and Hans Hoerdeman obviously 
have a knack for organization and a talent for solidifying separate acts Into one show, which flows with a sense of continuity. This year's Rt·vue reached a pinnacle of well-executed satire aQd musical talent. 
There is a saying that truly good satire should wound like a polished razor with a touch that's scarcely felt. Abiding by that definition, Keenan's satire Is diamond­edged. All the stereotypkal figures found beneath the Golden Dome got nicked, so no one could have righteously taken offense. 
The fact that the cast is all-male heightened the humor In the sketches involving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's females. Men -be they In monograms orsweat­suits, questing for engagement rings or peanut butter­would have to provoke a chuckle from even the most stereotypical ofstudents who inspire the spoofs. "Gonna Run You Down" effectively satirized jocks who drive golfcarts across the quads as ifthey were avid contenders In the Indy 500. 
"The Miss Golden Dome Beauty Pageant" did make 
light ofsometimes frightfully accurate categories stu­
dents get plaet·d in. "But Where Are the Flying 
Monkeys" illustrated satin· at its best, and the writer 
dcscrvt·s applause. Fashioned after Dorothy and her 
journey to Oz, the skit had a disillusioned Domer 
venturing to the Golden Dome to see Fr. Hesburgh. 
Along the way, the Domer encountered a jock -in 
need ofa brain, a throat -in need ofa heart, and "SMC 
chkk" -in need ofa husband. 
Agroup of bees singing the current Rod Stt·wart hit "Passion" wilh lyrics applicable to Notre Dame's social siluation or lack thereof illuminatedthe fact that the writers were fresh and up to date with their material. The nmtent ofthe show was timdy, for the writers devt•rly satirized a new fad -the electronic Space In­vaders game -with thdr spoofentitled "Stage In-

Mary Fran Callahan 
vaders." "Peter Pansy," portrayed by Mike Sibrava who donned authentic green tights and complementary garb, merits mention. The act tastefully satirized one of Domerland's more sensitive Achille's heels. Musically, the show was more than noteworthy, no pun intended. The stage band, under the direction of Lance Larsen, blended and cohered like a band that would regularly play together. Considering the band only seriously rehearsed during the month ofJanuarv, the professionalism emanatt"d .was stunning. Not only the band excelled: All musical acts followed suit. Kevin Simpson delivered a flawless perfomance on the piano, and his white tux constrasted with the black grand, was quite aesthetically effective on the stage. Hoerdeman's selections from the "Man of LaMancha" were packed with emotion. As expected, the traditional double octet shone. The group exhibited a refined elegance, first appearing on stage in black tails. Rector Richard Conyers' member­ship in the octet simply emphasized the amount ofcom­radery that obviously exists in Keenan Hall. The group's selection ofsongs was delightfully varied and voices harmonized well. TheJazz Ensemble delivered numbers extraor­dinaire;Joe McKrell's sax solos were outstanding. Tim Keyes, whose enthusiasm at the piano bench really told the audience he loves those keys, demonstrated how musically versatile he can be by appearing in the second act with guitar in hand, singing with an accomplished RalphJaccodine. People obviously love The Keenan Revue, for they lined both aisles ofthe main floor each night and stood in rows three-deep on O'Laughlin's balcony. Ifyou neglected the Revue this year, do not repeat your of­fense next year. For like a cask ofvintage wine, the Revue improves annually. When asked bow the Keenanites maintain and even surpass their standards for the show every year, Hall President Bill Carson just smiled, shrugged his shoulders and said "I guess maybe we're just lucky." Whatever the secret, this critic proffers a merited bouquet. Well done, gentlemen. 
Mary Fran Callahan is The Observer'sSenior Copy Editor. 
(photo byjohn Macor) 


Italics Mine 


A newplaypen 

0 
nee upon a time there was a good and beautiful mother who had a great many children. She was trying to raise them well, but they seemed to be growing up spoiled. They were always screaming for their bottles. She thought maybe they were too confined. 
"Daddy Ted," she said to their father, "the children need more room to play." "Let them play in the yard, 'said Daddy Ted. He wa.'i busy making out his budget. "Daddy, look out the window. The yard Is covered with snow," pointed out the Good Mother. "Why don't they make snow men?" asked Daddy irritably. "Or forts?" 
"Daddy, it's too cold for the children to play outside," pleaded the Good Mother gently. "They might catch cold. They need a new playpen." 

"Can't they play in the nursery? Why don't you put them to bed ear­lier, anyway? You're letting them stay up until all hours." "They can't go bed right after dinnt r. And the only thing they can 
....
play in the nursery is Spin-the-Bottle." 
"They're playing Spin-the-Bottle entirely too mut·h," said Daddy Ted sternly. "They're getting orally-fixated. I'll have to hirt· a psyc­hiatrist to straighten them out." 
"Now Daddy," said the Good Mother placatingly, "They want to play other games but they have no place to play." Daddy Ted ran some figures through his calculator. "What do they want to play?" he asked absent-mindedly. . . 
"They want to play Post Office, and they need a new -"She got out a folder from a company called Social Space. "Just look at these lovely new playpens, Daddy." 
Daddy saw the price and let out a roar. "Woman, do you think we're madt· of money? Have you looked at our bank balance lately? Those gold raincoats ofyours art·n't cheap, you know." 
"But Daddy -" A tear slid down her check. 
Daddy apologized for shouting at her. "Look, I'm very busy. We'll talk later. But my dear, you've simply got to'stop spoiling these children." 

Live, from Saint Mary's • • • 
A
lan Aida, Alan Arkin, Valt·ric Harper and RobcFt Kkin arc alumni. So arc li1rmcr "Saturday Night Live" stars Dan Aykroyd,John Bclushi, Bill Murray and Gilda Radnt·r. This exclusive school ofactors and actresses featuring such popular graduates is the Second City, an improvisational comedy group, which returns to O'Laughlin Auditorium this Thursday at H p.m. 
Second City, consisting of many actors who tour in groups ofsix or seven, is being sponsored by the Saint Mary's Student At·tivltics Programming Board (SAPB). Tickets, sold at dining halls and ticket oftkes on both ND-SMC campuses, are $3 for students and faculty and S4 for the general public or if purchased at the door. The group's performances feature comedy sketches · commenting on a variety ofsocial and political events, developing all material in a performance situation by 

improvising on ideas suggested by the audience and fel­
Throughout its development, the Second City has 
been known by a variety of names. In 195 I, the future 
Second City wa.~ titled The Playwright's Theatre Club, 
consistingofThe Second City's original art'istic director 
Paul Sills, along wih Mike Nichols, Zohra Lampert, Bill 
ton, Anthony Holland, Shelden Patinkin and writcr­
lrector David Shepherd. In 19"i"i, Shepherd and Sills 
ized The Compass Players, who focused on im­
IVisatlonal techniques, while Bernard Sahlins, cur-
Mary Agnes Carey 

rent producer ofThe Second City, formed the Studebaker Theatre Company in downtown Chicago. Both groups disassembled after one vcar, but were revived again in 1959 
In the early 1960s, The Second City's appc:al spread to New York (consisting of both Broadway and off­Broadway perfomances ), Detroit, Cincinnati, Philadel­phia, Cleveland, Boston, Pittsburgh, St. Louis and New Haven, as well as to London and Canada. The group also visited the University ofCalifornia campuses and major theatres in San Francisco, Phoenix, and Washington, 
D.C. Due to the incn·asing dc:mand for performances outside Chicago, a specialized Touring Company was developed in 1967. 
Second City reproduced its stage comedy for television in a series ofspecials, "Second City Reports," produced in England. and in 1976 began production for its own series, "SCTV", a satirical look at a day in the life ofa typical TV station. The series, purchased by Filmways Productions for distribution to 55 U.S. cities and Global TV for syndication throughout Canada, also interested the NBC television network, and in 1979 The Second City signed a contract with Osmond Productions to develop network programs. 
MaryAgnes Carey is an Observerstaffreporter. This Is herfirst contribution to Features. 
The Good Mother retreated. She was afraid he would bring up the slumber party. That wa.~ another of her worries. Tht· older childrt•n were to ht· allowed to have a big party in the city, and wear their best outfits, and dance, and have icc cream and cake. And they were-going to pack their little suitcases with their jammics and tooth-brushes and stay all night. Oh, it was so exciting! But Daddy Ted had made some rules: he didn't want them playing Post Office all night, and the children were rebellious. They didn'tlike rules. One plucky little chap went right into Daddy's office and defied him. "We're old enough to play Post Office all night ifwt· want to," he dt·clarcd manfully. But Dad­dy Ted held thepursestrings for the party and the little fellow could not budge him. The Good Mother was sccrt·tly glad, but she hated to see the children disappointed. 
She decided to go and sec Uncle But·ks and Aunt Doll aria, who had always been very indulgent. Maybe they would buy the t•hildren a new playpen and make them happy. But Linde Bucks asked what was wrong with ihe playpen that Grandpa LaFortune had given them only a few years ago. The Good Mother said that it was old-fashioned, and the children couldn't play Post Office in it. 
"Post Office? What kind ofgame is that?" 
"Don't you remember?" asked the Good Mother roguishly. "When you were young? And the boys and girls -" 
"When I was young there was only one sex," said Uncle Bucks grumpily, "And a good thing, too." 
The Good Mother turned to Aunt Doll aria and told her about the splendid new playpens put out by Social Space. They were just what the children wanted. Ofcourse they were expensive. 
When Aunt Dollaria heard the amount, she snapped her purse shut. She said she'd have to think about that for a long time. If the children were very good, and if President Reagan gave her a lot ofher taxes back, she might considera playpen from Social Space in a year or two, or maybe three. 
The Good Mother hurried back to the nursery wih this feeble promise, hoping it would cheer the children up. But it didn't. They were cross and fretful, and nothing ~liould comfort them but their bottles. 

------·-··--·--­l'he Observer Tuesday, February 3, 1981 -page 6 
Tim Andree stands tall in middle 

This Wednesday and Every Wednesday ... 
ND/SMC SPECIAL 
Pitcher of Beer $2.00 
Pitcher of Pop $s75 
with purchase of a large pizza 
Tuesday &Thursday 

$100 Off 
Any Large PiZZQ 
Thursday 

$100 Off 
Any 

PIZZA KING NORTH 
U.S. 31 North Roseland Across From Big "C" Lumber 
CarryOut Dial 272·6017 
OPEN  EVERY DAY  
MON.-THURS.  11 :00 -12:00  
FRI. & SAT.  11:00­ 1:00  
SUN.  4:30-11:00  
~.  ,  ...  W:·  


See Us For Your Pizza Part 
By FRANK LaGROTIA 
Sports Writer 
Tim Andree has never had much trouble being noticed. You see, when you're 6-10 and weigh 230 pounds, people naturally tum their heads whenever you walk by. 
Numbers like that also lead to heavy expectations when you're running up and down the basketball court. Nothing too serious-it's just that coaches, fans, teammates...well they kind of hope you can dominate the game. 
Andree, a sophomore on the 1980-81 Notre Dame basketball team, has been forced to deal with just such pressure since someone back home in Farmington, Mich., decided that he was more than just another pretty big man. 
"It started when I was a sop­
' " recalls Andree the 
gest of 12 brothers and sisters. "I 
staned for Brother Rice (High 
School) from that time on, and since 
then I've been pretty serious about 
the game." 
As a senior at Brother Rice, Andree owned the court, averaging 
22.4 points and 14.1 rebounds a game. His resume was jammed with prep all-America honors including 
Scholastic Coach, Basketball Week­
ly, Parade, Converse, Adidas and the 
list goes on and on. He competed in 
the Capital Classic, Dapper Dan and 
Derby Classic tournaments and was 
voted Michigan's High School Player 
ofthe Year by the Associated Press. 
As one might imagine, coming to 
Notre Dame was a bit of an adjust­
ment for a player who was used to 
being "the" star on the court. 
"I experienced the frustration of 
going from star to substitute, and it's 
hard to sit on the bench and keep 
your enthusiasm up\" Andree ad­
mits. And enthusiasm is something 
very important to Andree's perfor­
mance. 
"It's a big part ofmy game," he em­
phasizes. "I'm a nut at times and I 
really get into the game." Conse­
quently, it is not unusual to see 
Andree taped, dressed and shooting 
around three hours before tipoff on 
game days. 
After ~xperiencing an ankle injury 
that kept him idle during the first 
seven weeks of practice, Andree has 
come back to earn the st:>.rting cen­
ter spot and he is slowly but surely 
making his presence known in that 
I 5-foot area known as "the lane". 

.Needles 
continuedfrom page 8 
"We've done a lot better than I ex­pected," he said. "But I wasn't about to write this year off as just a rebuild­ing year. Our success fust shows the parity ofcollege basketball -on any given night, one team can beat any other team. 
"This year, we tried to do the best we could with what we had. The emergence of Zam (Fredrick) has helped greatly. But our freshmen (USC has seven frosh on its current 
14-man squad) have performed well, and that helps." · 
Foster has a long rebuilding road 
ahead of him. After this season, he 
loses his leading scorer Fredrick 
and. more importantly, his top ball­
handler. Kevin Dunleavy. 





VOCATION RETREAT 
"I think my job is to rebound and play defense," Andree offers. "The perfect boxscore for me would be 4-for-6 from the field, seven rebounds, a couple steals, no tur­novers and maybe 70 percent from the line. IfI score a few points, that's a bonus for the team because my job is not to hit for 20 a game." 
Andrt.... 4jjp>0ached that level of 
play against Maryland two weeks 
ago when his performance against 
Terp center Ernest Graham was 
labeled by Coach Digger Phelps as a 
major factor in Notre Dame's 
success. 

"Timmy played with intensity and 
concentration, and he showed what 
he is capable of doing," comments 
Phelps. "There is no doubt about his 
ability to do the job for us. We feel 
that with Tim and Joe (freshman 
Kleine) we have some of the best 
inside talent in the country right 
now." 

Andree appreciates the con­
fidence Phelps has in his ability, evi­
dent by his promotion to the starting 
position. 

"I am the kind ofplayer who has to 
feel like he is making a contribu­
tion," says Andree. "I like to know 
that the team is depending on me 
and that I will have a hand in the final 
results." 

And if his performance oflate is an 
indication ofthings to come, it is safe 
to assume that Phelps and Co. will go 
to him more and more, depending 
on Tim Andree to get the job done. 
Which, needless to say, will suit 
the big center just fine. 
rebuilding winners, and there's no reason to doubt th«t he'll be success­ful ~ith South Carolina. And, maybe in a few years, he can bring his team into the ACC and beat Notre Dame. Not necessarily by 76 points, mind you; a one-point victory will suffice. 
UCLA rally set for Saturday 
A pre-UCLA pep rally will be held Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in the ACC Pit. Featured speakers include 'Coach Digger Phelps and tri-captains Kelly Tripucka. Orlando Woolridge. and Tracy Jackson. On hand as guest speaker will be the new Fighting Irish head football coach. Gerry Faust. 
r-------------,
1 sports staff: 1 
I I 1 meeting 1 
I I : Thurs. 6:30 p.m. ; 
St. Mary's Student Body and Class
[p[ljJ~[p(Q)~~ to help you consider the priesthood in the 

Officer Elections


Congregation of Holy Cross 
Mandatory meeting 
Wed., Feb 4 7:00p.m. 12:00p.m. 
[Q)~[j~~ Friday, February 13 to Saturday, February 14 6:00pm in the 

Student Govt Room
[p[L~(C~ Moreau Seminary 
for all those -~interested in runnin
~~~~~u~~U~(Q)[M by calling the Vocation Office ­

ELECTION DAY
no cost 6385 
THURS· Feb 19 


Tuesday, February 3, 1981 -page






Classifieds 
NOTICES 

profc85ional typing. Term paJlt'n, theses, etc. Tape transcrip­
ion. Last year's sam" low pric"s. All work guaranteed. aardvark aulllmatlc wlulions. l89-67~3. 
19!1 I GRAOS: Resumes TYPESET (cam"ra r"ady ). Special tl0. Close Ill N.D. Call272·37t6. 
improve your game 8 have your radctbail or tennis rackel professionally restrung. GOOD RAl'ES! Call Andy at 1073. 
the Thurs. 8-9 and Thurs. 9·1 0 mixology classes will have their first mccllng at lhdr reSJlt'Cilve hours this thursday in the Haggar Hall Auditorium. l'he!IC classes arc doocd, only tho!M: >tudents who rc;glstered may allend. 
hi 
mom and dad wanr to see 
ucla gam". DON'T I.ET ME J)ISAP· POINT l'IIF.M! II' YOliiiAVE 2 GA'S, CAJ.L l'IIERESA AT6868. 
jLOST/F~UND 
J 
loHI hlue huuk!>ag. PIJiA.~t: CAIJ. KEN AT l6.U. 
lost: gold and pearl 
hrac.:elet al or on the way to 
the san frant•ist·u basketball game. IF FOUND PI.EASE CALl. 1284. REWARD. 
lost: Anyone who has info abuut a 
pair of wire frame glasses found at llcndlx Woods on Friday, jan. 23, pkase call Jim al 3260. Reward if 
found or returned!!! 
lost; one pair of men'S GI.OVES ON ST. MARY'S SHUTfLE. BEIGF. WITII BROWN SUEDE FACING. IF FOUND, PI.EASE CAI.L BOIIBY 1068. 
found; a "arch at the Y p.m. showing of "Casablanca" on january 21st. Contact Beth at 41-4637.  need Money? Wanted N.D. stu­dents 10 work for Jr. Parents weekend Banquet (Sat. Feb.7) and Breakfast (Sun. Feb.8) at ACC. Con­ bless me with 1 PAIR UCLA STUDENT OR GAs. RECEIVE UU CALL GREG 27~4 10 P.M. OR LATER.  uc:>pcraleay neell 1. UCLA GA's. WILL PAY MEGA-BlJCKS!!! please nil susan or anne at 6409.  "spy Who IA>Ved Me," Carroll Hall, SMC, today and \\'ednesday, 7, 9,11 p.m.  
hdpU t have lost 2 rings last week; a IYRO Dallas jcsull ring, outside Morrissey -the other, a gold initial ring with great sentimen·  tact student coordinalllrs at Nonh and South Dining Halls. my father will sell his soul (good  need 2 lix for UCLA game. Call Eileen at 8042.  PERSONALS  mary alit'e; i still low you, EVEN WilEN I'M NOT URliNK! DAVE (FROM FISHER)  
tal value. I will rekase frozen as.•ets for their return. ( Besidt•s, I have alerted local pawn shops) Deal with Rob, 3678, IB Morrissey lost: Autographed football. Gift for lillie brother in hospital. l.ost day before break. Please call Mike, I~74. Reward.  Blue Book value) for just one, ONE, measly UCLA GA ticket, anywhere inside the arena -is willing 10 sweep floor at halftime, or dance with Dandng Irish if nn·cssary. Call TJ at 3207. Pronto. FOR SALE  need 2 GA lJCI.A rkkels. Call t284. need 2 Tickets for parents N.n: vs l.aSalle. Pay Much U$ Call8609 need Two UCLA GAs. Call Bob at 1201. I nt·ed uda lix--SHJOE tl42  instant ca.•h paid for class rings, S20-S8~ OR MORE. WE MAKE IIOUSE CAI.I..'i. H~-2402. will pay U for Boston ll. G.A.'s on Feb. 10. Call Tracey ~206(SMC) mcgK-Red Draw Two... Uno!! T.l>.  anne S. ( B\lW ), Off the wall and on the lluor! Whal art· you up ru? Are yuu surt'? Agulden hall, abuse,'' hat a hasslt'. You're nt·at '(corny?)!!! kelly Chamhc.-... Shakt·, rank and roll with 1\run· mu<·h??! <ieet•t•, what was ll likt·?  
FOR RENT  for Sale 1974 AMC Hornet. Good Condition. HOO  parents ar~ com~ng for jpw. DESPERATELY WANT TO SEE liCLA GAME. NF.ED TWO GA'S FOR  llanner6-A-What the hell is F.RNDT!?  The Gang  f..'tmgratulatiuns Giana on your SUt't'eSS in flcJd hot'kt•y. kh hin ..·hr stnlz auf dkh. Thank you evt·ryonc fur the tapt·. I mis."i and lovt· ynu all.  
for Rent: Cozy apr. for rt·nr near River & Park. Sl ~0/mo. Call 232· 4~49.  refrigerator for sale. keg.<. S30. Cail6823.  Great  for  TIIEM. CALl. TOM AT 3770. uda lix 8 need 2 PAIR TIX CALL 277-68~3 AFfER ~­ GA  hey engineering elitists S rau bela pi meeting this Wednes­day at 6:30p.m. in room 303 EG for  llappy 8-day Collet·n. Sorrt· my cor· rcspondcn<'<' I• so had. Typka/ IIAPAZARD (;AU.A<illliR l'liR SONAI.. I havt·n'lt·hangt·d a hit. Auf  
furnished house for rent n>Uple blocks from campus and furnished country house for rent. 12 minutes Ill N.D. 277-~604, 288-09~~­nif..:e houses for rent for next school year ur summer. FurnlshL·d, good neighborhood, dose 10 campus. 277· 3604. 288-09~~. graduatt·s or staff -ahove· average apt., 3 rooms, tile bath, well· furnished, private, best of dlcntde. Sl90 single, nea l.ogan Bridge, H9 l.W.W., Mish., 2~~-119( houses for rent 8 1·82 S<'hool  TICKETS need 2 GA TICKF.TS FOR ND· UCLA BASKETBALL GAME. PLEASF. CALL SHIRLEY AT 8661 OR 171~ BEFORE~ P.M. need ucla ga'S--CALI. MA1'T AT 232·0921. wanted; I UCLA TICKET, STU­DENT OR G.A. PLEASE CALL PAT AT 277-8727 need 4 GA liCI.A TICKETS. CAl~ BOLOAT4~10  uda student ticket needed. Will pay t15. Steve 277-77~9 after II. needed: two liCI.A GA's. Will pay Ut.CaiiiOSO. willing Ill trade St·ason lix plus t for 2 UCLA GA's. Call jack 1208 need 4 GA lJCI.A tickets. Please call Kevin 1400. my Father, "Mr. GliGI.IELMI" will make you an offer you CANNOT refuse! Please t·all Kathy x681>9 NOW! I need 2 G.A. liCJ.A lix  all old and new mt·mbc:rs. Important busines.• includes elct·lion of 198 I uffit.:~rs. distribution of c:t·rtific:ates and gold pins, and more. Please pay balance of dues now! hidden hearts fch 14 Zahm to all obst'rvt'r ~mployt·es; if you have nul pi<·ked up your w-2 FORM FOR J9!10 PLF.ASF. DO SO; IT IS AVAILABI.F. FROM SHIRLEY IN TIU: OBSERVER OFFICE FROM 9-~­lynne andjan:a, Your hospitality lhls weekend wa.' one of the: most wc:ll-timt·d  wicrdescht·•a! Pally 011 P.S. To lht· Peeping Tom In Rooar 011 l.yons-Is this year anolht·r tlis appointnu·nrl 1<> Barbara Ann Ralalko -I didn't lhink it would hapj>t·n ( bu1 tht·sc past tC.·w h01vt.· meant !tt, mut.:h 1 Thc:rt• is a n.·rtain !ttUntt•thinM 'lwdal all<out it And I lhink rhal li>r lhc llrs1 lime I'm rt·ady-------ahhough tht· 14th is slilllll num· And you alrt·ady arc Pl.liASE llli MINii, ANI> ONI.Y Or I'll gt•t you busted for parit·lals. mucus and l>t-rh, Your dynamk duo was just stl'llarl  
year. Close to campus, good condi­tion, panially furnished. Call 287· ~361 after 6 p.m. I WA~TED J  need 6 G.A. TICKETS FOR BOSTON-N.D. BB GAMii ON FEB. 10. Wll~ PAY BIG UU. CALl. DOUG, 277·2787. wanted; one studem tkk· ET TO HIE UCLA GAMii. WILL PAY  like hundreds ofothers, I am gel· ling desperate fur a pair of UCI.A tickets, BIIT chn·k my price first. Call Mikeatl601. net·d -~ GA UCI.A lix. Call SMC 4779.  pleasantries I have: thus far t'X­pt·rknccd here at Notre Dame. (I'd hcuer watch out what I say--people will gel the wrong idea! ) Thanks and allow me: to make it up to yuu both soun! Scoop P.S.--You, too, John :and Ryan--you t·utc: br.utt's!  l.ovt·d tht· Jtard shot·. Wt."'n· proud ut )'UU. -­~·~-:...!~ ~··~_:r~~~~·~~ tht· ahtwt· goes fur mt· tun. l.onJ.t live the ll'l'fl's oftht· world je I'AIMEI Say it with t·arnalion•. SMC l'rcnch Club prc-Valcntlne'H  
will pay U for Bosllln U G.A.'s on Feb. 10. Call Tracey ~206 (SMC) need cxpc..·rlcnn~d g,uhar teacher to leach beginner. Will pay. Call Jim ar6822.  Ut. CALL MICHELLE AT 1363. dcsperatdyUUnccd many NU­Uayton lkkets!! Prefer GA's but also need some student tickets. Will pay fair prke. PleaS<· call Maun·en al 272-04!14.  lwo uda alumni will pay mega-BUCKS TO SEE THF. BRIIINS GET WIIIPPED IN TilE ACC. CAJ.I. JIMAT4613. I need 2 or 4 G.A. Tickets for U.C.I.. A. Caill>un al x 1143  ht·y St·hmitz, llow 'bout yourself? Tht· Penguin thanks to Jan, Mary K., and l.isa li>r helping to makt· rlw llrst .~EW Portaparry SUl'h a sut.'l't·ss. Mt·rd from 3EW Stanford  Howt·r sale. Feb. ~ & C. SMC dining hall & I.e Mans lnhhy. a nt·w trat.liticm has surfan.·d a1 ND. The Stanford .~liW l'orlaparl)' was a grand SUl."l'CS!'t 1:riday in Walsh. Other dorms ht· prcpart·d lo join in the fun.  


NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION 


SPRING BREAK IN DAYTONA BEACH 
MARCH 13 ­ 22, 1981  
1207  4 PER ROOM C2 Double Beds)  
1195  6 PER ROOM (3 Double Beds)  
TRIP INCLUDES  

• 
Round trip motor coach transportation on first class charter coaches leaving the campus Friday 

evening March 13 and traveling straight through with plenty of partying to Daytona Beach, arriving the following day. The return trip departs the follow­ing Sat. in the afternoon, and arrives back on campus the next day. 

• 
A full seven nights accommodations at the Plaza Hotel of DaytonA Beach, Florida. 

• 
A great time in Daytona with special parties and activities. 

• 
Optional trip to Disney World available. 

• 
Allt=:~xes and gratuities. 




SIGN UP NOW AT THE TICKET OFFICE IN THE LA FORTUNE BUILDING 
8:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m. MON.-FRI. OR CALL 283-3031 (after five 283-62831 

SRQrts 
Bench keys Irish 
Irish slam Saint Mary's 
By TJ. PRISTER the Irish ahead tor good with 10:11 Sports Writer remaining in the first half Tripucka's deft shooting from the 
Outstanding shooting and strong 15-foot range and tenacious board help from the bench spelled the dif-work helped him contribute 20 ference as Notre Dame easily points to the Irish attack. Tripucka coasted by St. Mary's of California, upheld his All-American status 94-63. against a man-to-man defense, which 
"The key to our game tonight was he is virtually unstoppable against, 
the bench," said a somber Digger ' especially less talented teams like St. 
Phelps. "We're trying to get more Mary's. 
playing time for junior Mike "We play man-to-man defense 
Mitchell and senior Stan Wilcox, and most ofthe time so we weren't going 
I was very happy with their back-to change from our strengths 
court play." tonight," said St. Mary's second-year 
"We got a lot of miles out of our coach Bill Oates. "We scouted Notre 
bench," continued Phelps. "It's ob-Dame against San Francisco out on 
vious that we're trying to rest some the West Coast and they are a much 
of our starters and a performance better team now than they were 
like this from our bench makes res-then~' · 
ting the starters easy to do." Vann, averaging a team leading 
Sixty-two per cent shooting 16.9 points per game, tossed in 14, 
buried the Gaels in the second half. and Allen Cotton contributed 10 
However, the outside shooting ofSt. points. Yet most ofSt. Mary's points 
Mary's guards Franklin Rhodes and came from long range which caught 
David Vann kept them within strik-up with the Gaels in the second half 
ing distance at halftime, 44-34. as they shot a dismal44 per cent. 
"St. Mary's runs an excellent Oates vowed last year after a 95­
transition game which means 81 loss to Loyola of Maramount, 
they're going to hit those shots from which knocked them out ofa bid for 
the outside, as will LaSalle on Wed-the NCAA tournament, that he 
nesday," said Phelps. wouldn't go through another season 
Mitchell and Wilcox each tossed with a small front line. 
in individual season highs. Mitchell Last year the Gaels miniature front 
scored six points on a flawless three-line of6-6, 6-5, and 6-3led them to a 
of-three from the field in the first half 13-14 slate. Consequently, Oates 
and Wilcox netted eight points In brought in 6-10 Eric Vial, a transfer 
only seven minutes ofplaying time. from the University of California, 
St. Mary's pesky man-to-man and 7-0 freshman Mike Nelson. 
defense sparked the Gaels to an early However, it was clearly obvious that 
18-16 lead, but a dunk by senior St. Mary's inside play was not com­
Orlando Woolridge and a layup by parable to the much stronger Irish. 
senior Kelly Tripucka off a nifty as-Notre Dame held a substantial 
sist by sophomore John Paxson put edge in the rebounding department. 
Swimmers undefeated as schedule toughens 
By MICHAEL ORTMAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame football team kept it alive for eight games. The bas­ketball team killed it on openingday. The Irish fencers are aiming for anot­her and Dennis Stark's swimmers are dreaming oftheir firM ever. 
"It" is an undefeated season, and the Notre Dame swimming team is offto its best start in seven year with an unblemished 5-0 record thus far. 
"The schedule is set up almost ideally," says senior co-captain Dave Campbell. "It never lets up, but it gets tougher and tougher with every meet." 
After a pair of resounding vic­tories at Western Ontario (67-44) and St. Bonaventure (66-47) this past weekend, the Irish are riding high. "It's a super feeling to be un­defeated," says junior Mike Shepardson, one ofthe heroes ofthe meet with the Borinies, "but we've got to take these meets one at a time. We've got two tough ones coming 
up at home." 
"Tough" just about sums up this 
weekend's rigorous schedule which 
will see the Irish compete in two 
dual meets in less than 22 hours. 
Toledo and Marshall will visit the 
Rockne Memorial Pool on Friday 
and Saturday afternoons, respective­
ly. Both visitors are hoping to 
avenge down-to-the-wire losses 
they suffered at the hands ofthe Irish 
last season. 
The past weekend's activities 
produced four season best times and 
a pair of spectacular diving perfor­
mances by sophomore Paul 
McGowan. After coasting to a relatively easy victory in London, Ontario, last Thursday night, the Irish drove to St. Bonaventure NY for what would prove to be ~ne. ~f the team's finest all-around perfor­mances in recent memory. 
The Irish knew after the first event that the going would be nothing but difficult. The 400-yard medley relay unit of Pat LaPlatney, John Wil­Iamowski, Shepardson and senior co-captain John Komora, set a new school record in the event 
( 3:39.33), but still finished second and picked up no team points. 
Notre Dame trailed 26-1 7 after five events, but Shepardson's pool record in the 50-yard freestyle (:21.66) sparked the team, and the Irish soon pulled ahead to stay. Shepardson's time in the 50 free was the best oy an Irish swimmer in six years. 
McGowan put on the best all­
around diving display the Irish have 
seen in several years. "Paul was hit­
ting his dives beautifully," says Stark. 
"He was getting sevens and eights 
from the judges, and that's very 
good. At one point, Paul came over 
to me and said he was really nervous. 
I told him to stay that way, as long as 
he kept hitting those dives." 
"You haye to be happy when your 
team's 5-0," says Stark, "but we still 
have some things to work on. Our 
distance freestyle times aren't what 
they could be. Mike (Hilger, holder 
of three school records) is working 
himself back into shape, but that's 
leaving other people to carry the 
load." 
Hilger is going through rehabilita­tion and conc:ijtioning after a bout with tenositis earlier this season. 

Freshman joe Kleine snatched a game-high seven rebounds and was three-of-three from the field. Tripucka and Woolridge combined for II boards. 
W oolridgl·'s gorilla slam off a pass from Tim Andree with 16:5 7 gone in the game gave the Irish a 48-38lead. The Gaels never challenged again, falling behind by as many as 33 points late in the contest. 
"In the beginning of the second half, Tripucka stole the ball on a missed foul shot and we finally gained the momentum and broke the game open," said Phelps. "We have to focus on LaSalle now. I'm sure they'll come in here very confi­dent since they beat us last year in Philadelphia" 
IRISH ITEMS -Notre Dame's 41 field goals against St. Mary's represents a single game high this seasot;J....The previous best was 38 field goals aginst Davidson and South Carolina...Tracy Jackson and Bill Varner joined Tripuck and Woolridge in the double figure category tossing in 10 points apiece....Of eleven players dressed, all but Marc Kelly contributed to the scoring column....Those not dressed included Gil Salinas, Kevin Hawkins, and Barry Spencer....Spencer strained an arch in his right foot Friday but will probably be available for Wednesday's clash with LaSalle. 
Foster rebuilding at USC 
On Saturday at the ACC, 13th-ranked South Caroiina squad played a near-flawless basketball game in overwhelming Notre Dame, 124-48. 
Unfortunately for Bill Foster, that was the lady Gamecocks defeating the lady Irish. Their male coun­terparts, despite shooting 54 per cent 'from the floor, were 94-84 losers to Notre Dame later that evening. 
Bill Foster is in the middle of his first season as head 
coach at the University of South Carolina. The athletic 
hierarchy at USC pried him loose from his similar posi­
tion at Duke University, when they determined that 
Frank McGuire, its "living legend" coach since 1964, 
was losing control of the team and, in so many words, 
getting too old for the job. So Foster was called in to 
provide the CPR necessary to revive USC's basketball 
team, a former national powerhouse which has not 
been to the NCAA Tournament in seven years. 
Now, Bill Foster is no stranger to dying basketball programs. In college basketball circles, he is regarded as a miracle worker, sort of the Mother Teresa of the NCAA -he takes in the needy and unwanted teams, nurses them back to life, and then moves on to where his presence is needed most. And, once in a while, he'll win a few "Nobel Prizes" along the way -a conference championship here, a Coach of the Year award there. He's even knocked on heaven's door once, taking Duke to the championship game in 1978 before losing to Kentucky. 
Before going to South Carolina, Foster had been in­volved in four previous rebuilding situations, ranging from a tiny teachers' college in Pennsylvania to a major Atlantic Coast Conference school. Four times, he has been successful in turning around that school's floundering program. Following is a list ofhis collegiate coaching accomplishments: 
1). Beginning at Bloomsburg State (Pa.) in 1961, Fos­
ter took a bunch offuture physical education teachers 
and compiled a 45-11 record in three seasons. 
2). From there, he moved on to Rutgers University, a 
sorry team that played in an ancient gymnasium where 
any crowd noise would send loose paint chips flying to 
the floor from the ceiling. Until Foster arrived, that 
never used to be a problem, since no one ever went to 
see Rutgers play basketball. But Foster, in two years, 
transformed a 5-17laughingstock-of-a-team into a 17-7 
Eastern power. In his eight years with the Scarlet 
Knights, Foster had a record of 120-75, including two 
NIT berths. Rutgers, five years later in 1976 and with an 
established. program, went 31-0 before losing in the 
Final Four to Indiana and UCLA. 
3). In 1972, Foster took over the head job at the Uni­
versity of Utah and stayed there for three seasons. Fos­
ter in his final year with the Utes was 22-8 and took Utah 
a 

Tuesday, February 3, 1981 -page 8 



to the NIT for the first time in recent memory. 
4 ). Finally, in I975, Foster got his chance for national prominence as he became head coach at Duke Univer­sity in the prestigious Atlantic Coast Conference. After three .500 seasons (as they say, Rome wasn't built in a day), Foster's teams produced three straight ACC Championships, three NCAA berths, and of course a place in the Final Four in 1978. After edging Notre 
Dame 90-86 in the semi-finals, Duke fell toJoe B. Hall's Kentucky Wildcats, 94-88. "Of course it's frustrating now, looking back, to come so close without winning it all," Foster says now. "But I'm not going to let it kill me. There've been an awful lot ofcoaches who have never gotten even that far." 
USC athletic director Jim Carlen hired Foster away from Duke to replace the popular McGuire, who was forced to retire. "There was no particular reason for me leaving Duke," says Foster, taking a break from his 
team's shooting practice on Saturday afternoon. "It's just that the athletic director did a good job of selling the school to me." In other words, another challenge had been offered. Foster gladly accepted. 
Foster's current Gamecock squad is a surprising 12-8, surprising since he starts an all-freshman front line. But this year's edition, which could aptly be renamed "Zam Fredrick and the Four Assistmen," bears no resemblance to Foster's teams of the past, which stressed team play and crisp passing. It will take a little while for Foster to establish his own system, but history has proved he is quite able to complete the task. 
South Carolina, unofficially the youngest team in col­lege basketball this season, has had its ups and downs. There have been flashes ofbrilliance -a 91-89 upset at Marquette; first place in their own Palmetto Classic; playing Clemson even for 38 minutes before losing on free throws by 13; and additional victories against Florida State and Texas. 
But with inexperience comes frequent bad perfor­mances -home court losses to Cleveland State and Temple, and, worst of all, a 116-85 lost to Marshall wherever that is. Foster, though, is pleased with hi~ team's performance. 
See NEEDLES, page 6 








