
~-----­
• • .Cage results -page 11 
an independent snJdent 
Armed intruders· hold • OC students at gunpoint 
ByJOHN HIGGINS 
StaffReporter 
Two Notre Dame students were robbed at gunpoint Monday night in their Portage Avenue home, bound and locked in a closet, and relieved ofa S1400 stereo and S400 in cash. 
According to Michael MeSally, a senior, two gunmen apparently en­tered the wrong house looking for cocaine. The intruders held MeSally and a friend at gunpoint for 40 minutes while ransa,·king the house, ending their siege by barricading the two bound victims in a hall closet. 
The pair was released by MeSally's girlfriend who arrived less than one minute after the: assailants left. 
MeSally said one: of the men came to the door and asked to use the telephone. "We sat and talked on and off for about ten minutes waiting for (another person in the house) to get off the phone," he said. "When he was off, I said 'The phone's all yours.' He walked towards the phone:, pulled agun out ofhis pocket and told us both to get on the floor. 
He said they lay face down on the kitchen floor and the gunman placed pillows over their heads and threatened to kill them if they moved or looked up. "He explained another guy was outside and said if this guy saw us look up he'd kill us," MeSally said. "Then he went to the front door and let the other guy inside. The second guy came into the room an started asking us where the cocaine was. We told him that we did not deal in cocaine, that we did not have cocaine. 
"He then said he was going to 'mess one of us up' to get the other one to talk," MeSally continued. "At this point they decided to tie us up. The guy we didn't see ripped a cord out ofthe wall and tied me up pretty tightly. My hands started turning blue. Then he started asking me where the coke was and I told him we didn't have any, that we never had any. 
The man with the gun then placed the gun against his temple and again threatened to kill him, MeSally said. The pair then began searching the house. When the second man went upstairs, "the guy with the gun came up to me and said 'I'm the only guy with the gun, don't worry about him. Just play with me and you won't get hurt.' 
The second man came downstairs and the pair dragged the two stu­dents into a closet. "They cleared the closet out and threw us in," MeSally said. "They barricaded the door with a bar. One ofthem asked if anyone was comi.ng home and I said 'Yes, definitely. My girlfriend is ex­
$622 million 
Chrysler gets money 
WASHINGTON (AP) The Chrysler Loan Guarantee Board granted conditional approval last night to the tottering automaker's application for another S400 mlllion in government loan guarantees. 
The board's approval was condi­tioned on ratification by members of the United Auto Workers of wage concessions totalling $622 million, and by presentation by Chrysler of agreements to convert about S500 mlllion in outstanding loans and to pay off another $500 million at 30 cents on the dollar In installments ­effectively canceling about $350 mlllion in debts. 
Other conditions call for Chrysler to commit itself to "all possible steps" to a merger or other means of raising new capital; to present ap­proval from its suppliers of $36 mil­lion additional concessions and to promise to try to get an equal amount in 1981; and for the UAW to agree to take the company's shaky finances Into consideration in future contracts. 
The board's decision came after the three-member panel summoned the heads of the company and its major union to their meeting. 
Chrysler submitted Its revised ap­plication earlier in the day after tentative approval by a I 3-mc:mber bargaining committee of the United Auto Workers union on a new package of concessions to the com­pany. Details of the agreement were not known. 
UAW president Douglas A. Fraser said nothing as he entereo the con­ference room where the loan board was meeting, and Chrysler Chair­man Lee A. Iacocca said only, "See you on the way out.'' 
Earlier, Fraser characterized the concessions as "quite severe." 
"You can't be happy in this kind of situation," Fraser said. "You can't call it a victory when you gave up so much, made so many concessions." 
"Obviously our goal is to do the minimal necessary to satisfy the secretary," said UAW spokesman Don Stlllman. 
Stillman's use of the word "minimal" echoed the term used Tuesday by Treasury Secretary G. Wllliarn Mlller, chairman ofthe loan guarantee board, to characterize the assistance Chrysler wanted from the union. 
Miller has said the board needed to make a preliminary decision at its Wednesday meeting, with the decison to become final Friday. 
Miller said there would not other­wise be enough time for Treasury Secretary-designate Donald Regan to familiarize himselfwith the issues. Chrysler officials had said that with­out the loan guarantees, they wlll run out ofcash before the end ofthe month. 
A key part of the company's sur­vival plan wa.S the savings to be yielded by the proposed wage freeze for Chrysler workers. That freeze has been described by the union as a pay cut, because workers would not receive already-earned cost-of­living increases. 
peeted home within l 5 minutes.' 
"The guy we never saw said that they should wait for her and put her in the closet," MeSally continued. "I told them that my housemate would be with her, which was a lie. I just didn't want them to think she was coming home alone. I started yelling every few minutes 'Hey, people are goi.pg to be here in a few minutes,' trying to get them to leave." 
When the robbers left they took MeSally's $1400 stereo plus $400 in cash with them. 
"Not a minute later, my girlfriend walked in the door. We called out from the closet and she came in and untied us.'' 
MeSally said that he believed the gunmen mistock his house for the part of the duplex located behind his. 
"When the first guy came in he said 'Three guys live here, right?' " MeSally said. "I told him that there were only two. The house behind us does have three people. I think that either they got a bum tip that we were dealing or that they got the wrong house. 
"We never did get a look at the second guy," he added. "They stressed so much that the only way we were going to live is if we didn't look. He must have had a face that could be easily described or picked out in a mug shot. He must be really well known to the police around here." 
MeSally was critical ofthe manner in which the police handled the inci­dent, saying that the first officer arrived 20 minutes after they called, even.though the dispatcher was told that the intruders were probably at the other duplex, which police con­firmed was indeed the case. "Even then we had to call a secoi-d time," MeSally said. "One of the officers, Corporal Sharpe, was great," but a lab technician complained that it was going to "take all night" to lift fingerprints from the house and that he refused to take prints from the dining room and kitchen where the intruders spent most oftheir time." 
The South Bend Police detective in charge of the case was in court and unavailable for comment. 
The wreckagl! ofthe downedplane that carried Daniel Linnen, his father, brother, and pilot was removedfrom lake Michigan Dec. 21 by a salvage team. (Photo courtesy Michigan City News-Dispatch) 
Aircrash victims 
Bodies still missing 
By DAN LeDUC 
StaffReporter 

For one Notre Dame family, this past Christmas season was not a joyous one. The bodies ofseniorfinance majorJames Linn en, his father William, and brother Daniel ofLong Beach, Ind., and the pilot oftheir plane, Ed Bitanits of Niles, Mich., killed when their aircraft crashed in Lake Michigan Dec. 7, have not yet been recovered. The four men were flying from Chicago's O'Hare Airport when the aircraft disappeared from South Bend Airport radar. On Dec. 12, the plane was located three-quarters of a mile off Grand Beach, 
See CRASH, page 5 
Police admit 'Red Squad~ 
LANSING, Mich. (AP) Surprised, proud or disgusted, thousands ofpeople in Michigan are learning that for years a state police "Red Squad" spied on them and listed their names as potential sub­versives. 
Among them: David Stockman, the conservative Republican con­gressman chosen to head the Office oP.Management and Budget in the Reagan administration. Tabs were kept on Stockman during his student days at Michigan State University, when he was affiliated with a church group trying to increase public awareness of the Vietnam War. 
Under a court order, state police have been trying since November to notify 32,000 people that their names are pasted on flies amassed by the force's Special Investigation Unit, the Red Squad. 
Today is the deadline for submit­ting a request to see a file, but offi­cials say it may be months before the microfilm records can be put on paper for distribution. 
"It was an enormous waste of public money," said Howard Simon, director of the Michigan chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union. The ACLU was among organizations on which files were kept, and it 
• aided lawsuits filed to abolish the unit. Created in 1950 by a Legislature caught up in the nation's Cold War fears, the Red Squad operated until challenged by lawsuits in 1974. 
The squad was declared uncon­stitutional in 1976 by a judge who ordered it to invite people named in the files to view their records. It then took four years for troopers to prepare the files for release by removing SCl. •ndary names con­tained In indivi-Jual files. 
Various la'l>. suits have revealed that in Its heyday, the Red Squad routinely supplied information on job applicants to state agencies ­and on occasion to utilities and other private employers. 
The Red Squad lists include the names of public officials, labor or­ganizers, members of socialist and communist groups, feminists, stu­dents, journalists and activists In the civil rights, gay rights and anti-war movements. 
"Once people begin to open those flies ... and see that 1 0 or 1 5 years ago, they may have been denied a job, or housing or educational. op­portunities, then there ffil'Y be a number of stories that can only be 
See REDS, page 5 


I I 
[ 
t 
'I 
It's always amusing to observe the old men in blue blazers who are employed for "Security" purposes at rock concerts at the ACC. When hcadbanger groups like AC-DC, Acrosmith and Ted Nugent roll in, it all seems so evil to them: three chords and a cloud ofwatts, long hair and pot smoke. With cotton bulging from their ears, they must wonder why a Catholic institution per· mits such unabashed hedonism. 
Rock music's detractors were provided with am­munition, much more shocking and grisly, just over a year ago when 11 people died outside of a concert by The Who in Cincinnati. In the year since then, up to the lawsuits being fought out at present, rock is finally boing taken seriously -not the music, ofcourse, but its message and its impact. 
Society is placing the blame for this tragedy on rock, and this is not just some Southern bible zealots burning Beatie albums in response to an off-hand remark by John Lennon. Concerts are being cancelled, musicians scorned and this raw, expressive musical form is being repressed. This is not good. 
Rock music is a giant. It was the first musical genre to really scratch the surface of the mass-market, record­buying potential, a potential which still remains greatly unrealized. Rock acts were the first to sell records in the millions of units, introduc­ing the "platinum" record into the music industry's vocabulary. 
This has always been a bane of resentment among followers of more sophis­ticated musical forms such as classical and jazz. But rock sold more because it was easier to understand: more primitive, more straight­forward. Rock brought music to the consciousness of the masses -black and white -whereas music had only been appreciated previously among the elite. 
As a result, the intelligentsia have always looked down their noses at rock and its various permutations. But each time violence has become intertwined with rock (such as the trashing of movie theaters showing "Blackboard Jungle," or the stabbing death of Meredith Hunter at Altamont in 1969), the argument begins again over the immorality and ultimate worthlessness of this vulgar musical style. The Who concert renewed this debate, but the large number of fatalities involved in Cincinnati has legislators and columnists calling for ac­tion this time. 
This is not to say that rock is totally blameless. The message presented by many rock groups is one of defiance, advocating drug use and loud music, but it can hardly be viewed as a call to arms: it is a music not to be taken too seriously, as any good rock musician will tell you. One (11 rock's most marketable features is that it is (originally) dance music, just" like disco, and history has shown that dance music always sells better than the lis­


tenable stuff. 

,_The_Qbs.eryer_ 
Design Edltor.......................john McGrath 
Design Assistant .............. Diane Mazurek Layout Staff............... Ryan Ver Berkmoes Paul Mullaney 
Technicians ........................... Bruce Oakley Ben Stoltz 
News Editor............ : .............. Tom jackman Copy Editor................. Mary Fran Callahan Typist ........................................Cindy Jones 
Pbotograpber ............................ John Macor 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The Observer. P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
•· 

But it is a gut reaction to want to quickly lay the blame and right all wrongs, and making rock the heavy is incorrect. The fact that Who fans are not as orderly or well-mannered as purveyors of other types of music does not mean that their music is evil. It simply appeals to a different group of people. And that group, the lar­gest of all musical appreciation groups, should not be discriminated against simply because its tastes are not as refined as possible. 
In this country, we can read or listen to whatever we like. When such a large portion of the populace has expressed a preference for this music, it needn't be denied them. But if these preferences cause some type ofconflict, then provisions must be made. Indeed, rock concerts are staged in massive, musically infeasible hockey arenas to provide for the huge numbers who wish 
to  sec  these  shows.  
"Security"  men  are  
provided.  Also,  "festival  

seating" was devised to al­low even more people to see the show. 
In fact, many unfamiliar with this "seating" policy were outraged that it even existed, and screamed that it be banned. It should be noted that any promoter or security chief worth his weight in TV dinners can properly police and control a crowd waiting for "first come, first served" seats. 
The ACC regularly has festival seating on the floor, and has experienced little difficulty. 
Rock was responsible for the crush ofpeople waiting outside of Riverfront Coliseum last December, but it was not responsible for the suffocation deaths of 11 Who fans. That was the fault of an inexplicable lack of crowd control by the concert promoter, and the stupidity ofColiseum officials in failing to open enough doors at the right time. The current lawsuits will probably reach the same conclusion, and discover once again that policing a rowdy crowd is not all that dif­ficult. They will also conclude, hopefully, that banning rock music is not the answer. 

Observer Notes _______ 
The Observer is always looking for new report­ers-experience is totally unnecessary. Ifyou like to write, and are willing to contribute a couple of hours a week, our news department wants you. 

SENIORS: 
Have you had an experience in volunteer! serv:lce of social actl.on serving the needs of others? 
Do you want to live a simple life in Christian community with others like yourself? 
Do you have a sense of ministry to the world and to the Church as a lay person? 
If so, we invite you to consider the Holy Cross Associates program. "We have placements available next year in Oregon, California, Arizona, Chile and Kenya. 
If you wish to explore further your ideals of Christian service and community as a lay person, 
please con tact: Volunteer Services orcall4397 

The Observer Thursday,January 15,1981 -page 3 

Pasquerllla West opens doors to 160 

By MARY FRAN CALLAHAN 
Senior Copy Editor 
One hundred and sixty women now live in the newly-constructed Pasquerilla West, a building which has virtually eliminated the 
· crowded housing situation on campus. The dorm's occupants include 34 freshmen who were housed last semester in Villa Angela plus transfer and off-campus students. Pasquerilla's facilities are ex­tensive, for the dorm includes spa­cious study lounges in every section, typing rooms, dining rooms on the first floor. a large kitchen, an entire wing of storage rooms, a glassed-in social space with adjacent vending machines, and a furnished apart­ment for campus visitors. The dorm also features facilities for the hand­icapped: each bathroom has a bath­tub and elevators were designed with the handicapped in mind. Residential rooms arc a mixture of singles, doubles, triples and quads-­all large. Built-in shelving, smoke alarms and large towel racks are in­cluded with each unit. Pasquerilla rector Delores Ward called the facilities "beautiful." Her quarters were tastefully furnished for her after the dorm was com­pleted. 
WASHINGTON--(AP) President Carter bid farewell to the nation Wednesday night with a solemn warning that the danger of nuclear annihilation is growing and the self­ish desires of special interests are assuming strong, but not necessarily desired, influence over American political life. 
In his last scheduled speech from the Oval Office, Carter said "Democracy is an unfinished crea­tion," and offered an updated inter­pretation of the most oft-quoted passage from the Declaration of In­dependence: 
"For this generation," Carter sa'd, "life is nuclear survival; liberty is human rights; the pursuit of happi­ness is a planet whose resources arc devoted to the physical and spiritual nourishment of its inhabitants." 
Without rekindling the debate that marked his campaign against President-elect Ronald Reagan, Carter said the American people must never shrink from the struggle for human rights, to protect the en­vironment and to control nuclear weapons--each an area In which he and Reagan disagree. 
In remarks prepared for his na-. tionally broadcast address, Carter did not mention either the: American hostages still held In Iran or the economy, two burning issues that helped bring down his presidency. 
Villa Angela freshmen l"eceived priority on the dorm's room picks. The University provided trucks and supplied manpower to move the women in following finals. 
Several students who lived off campus said that escalating crime in­fluenced their decisions to move back to campus. 
Tricia Carlson lived at the Notre 
Dame Apartments, a place she said 
she "felt safe" at only when inside. "I 
couldn't walk outside at night," she 
commented. 

Citing the same reason, another student said though she was within walking distance ofcampus, she was afraid to walk to school and found transportation to be too much of a problem to continue living off 
campus. 

One resident expressed her opinion on the new dorm saying, "I always wanted to live in an older 
dorm. I think the outside of this dorm is kind of ugly, but the inside here is a lot better than the outside," Maryeva Schmitt commented. 
Pasquerilla West's four •h floor along with Pasquerilla East s slated to open next fall. Frank J. Pasquerilla's S7 million dor ation to finance the construction of the dorms is the largest single donation from a living person in the history of the University. 
Carter bids final fare"W"ell to nation 
Carter said of Reagan, his succes­sor at noon next Tuesday: "to the very limits of conscience and con­victi~n. I pledge to support him." He wished Reagan "success and Godspeed." 
Family planners to meet 
The Natural Family Planning Association ofSt. Joseph County will conduct an information night with a question and answer period at 7:30p.m. Monday,January 26, in the Library Auditorium. The Association will be offering a class for interested couples who are engaged or who are in the process of planning marriage next summer. The class begins on January 27, and all those interested must pre-register with Campus Ministry (65 36). 
'• 
Your budding • careercan 
biOSSOOlaS 
anAirR>rce 

nurse
~ . . d h
In fact, the Air Force ts so concerne t at your career blossom properly, we are offering an Internship Program to help you fine tune your newly learned skills. Ifyou are interested in an annual starting salary of$14'300 and advancement to a minimum of$21,900 in just 3 years plus many othe~ ~;>ersonal and professional opportunmes contact: 
Jay]. Beam rl~ /) 
at 317-269-6377 Collect .r";1~1)1'l ­47 South Pennsylvania Ave. ( ~~ ) Indianapolis, IN 46204 ,~~ 
AirForce... ~~.-, • 
r.• A Great \\ay of~ 
DORM LIF-E CRAMPING YOUR STYLE? 





NOTRE DAME AVE. APTS 
2bedrooms completely furnished complete kitchen off-streetparking up to 4 students $340-$360/month 
call234-6647 
PRIOR MIUTARY SERVICE? YOUR ARMY RESERVE NEEDS YOU! 


Army Reserve units withinJOmile•' of University of 
Notre Dame are currently recruiting for prior service personnel in the following specialties: • 
Material Supply Specialist E-4, E-~ 
Personnel Administration Specialist E-4, E-~ Medical & Clinical Specialist E-6 Field Artillery Meteological Crmm. E-6 

For more information, contact your Army Reserve Recruiter, Sgt. Young 234-4187 
MEET TODAY'S ARMY RESERVE! 
..1 

Student Union-----------"-"!...­

EXCHANGE 
SALE: Thurs., Jan. 15 Fri., Jan 16 
3:00to 6:00 
2nd Floor LaFortune (Ballroom) 


TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 For lnforf1'ation About Other Centers In More Than 85 Major US Cities & Abroad Outside NY State CALL TOLL FREE: 800-223-1782 
MICHIGAN SNO·N-GO REPORTS 
Snow, ski, snowmobile and road reports 24 hours a day. Free literatu available. 


Call toll-free 800-248·5700 




Rev. Andre Leveille, c.s.c. Box 541 Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 219 283-6385 
\ 
Shotgun accident 

Man survives gun blast 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. (AP)-A month ago, a shotgun discharged acciden­tally and doctors weren't sure that Joe GoodridJr. would survive. Now, he's back at work and feeling good. 
Goodrid was wounded Dec. 13 when his shotgun went off, pumping nearly 100 pellets into his stomach and abdomen. 
Two pellets stopped just short of his heart, and another entered his in­testines. It took four hours ofemer­

gency  surgery  at  a  Benton,  Ky.  
hospital,  to  remove  those  and  
several other shot fragments.  

"I guess it was really touch and go for awhile," said Goodrid. "I'm very, very fortunate," he added. "The good Lord w~ on my side." 
''I'm not quite up to full power yet," said the former Evansville Reitz football star, "but I'm getting along real well." 
Goodrid, 36, who has been active 

• in Republican Party politics and lo­cal service clubs in recent years, even felt well enough to attend Gov. Robert Orr's inauguration Monday in Indianapolis. 
Last week, his doctor gave him permission to begin working half time, and he was told Monday he could go back to work full time next week. 
Goodrid is an investigator in the juvenile division ofthe Vanderburgh County prosecutor's office. He was visiting his parents when the acci­dent occurred. · 

ALL TEACHER APPLICATIONS FOR 

free university 
ar~dueTODAY in the student union offices 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE 

Acommunity 
of faith and fril)ndship where young men prepare to become Holy Cross priests. 
For further informatioPI or vocational counseling with no obligation contact: 
• 


OPEN AUDITIONS " ND/SMCTHEATRE 
10 

"A Baudy, Colorful, Outrageous COMEDY!" 


A COUNTRY WIFE 
by William Wycherley guest director: FRANK CANI~O 
ALLARIE WELCOME 
friday 16 washington hall 7pm saturday 17 o'laughlin aud 1pm 
DRIVER needed " 
for on<ampus delivery 

of OBSERVERS tues. and thurs. from approx 
10:00am­

2:00pm~ 
good pay 
call shirley at 
283-747l 


-~-----------­
~~----~-----~-~------------­
Thursday, January 1 S, 1981 -page 5 
State Pollee Lt. Norman Smith, Is supervising release of the acknowledged the state may some lawsuits after the files are u<::.......,u. but he added that the Red 
State police said they have had finding many of the named because addresses outdated. The police published in several newspapers In late Novenrtber inviting queries from 
who believe they may be In the files but have not been so notified. 
Records released through a law­suit flied by Zolton Ferency -a lawyer and professor who founded the state Human Rights Party ­revealed that the Red Squad noted license numbers from cars parked near meetings of groups the squad considered subversive and put the vehicle owners on flle, even though they were not at the meetings. 
.. .Crash 
Continued from page 1 
Mich. -In 35 feet ofwater. 
It took nine days for a salvage crew to raise the plane and tow tt to the Michigan City Harbor. High winds and bad weather ham­
, pered the crew's eft'ons. 
To the surprise of investigators the bodies ofthe four men were not in the plane. "We were shocked. I felt confident the bodies would be there," said LaPone County Deputy Coroner Roben Jackson in the 
Michigan City News-Dispatch. 
Investigators found the escape hatch of the plane open and unlaced shoes in the aircraft indicating that 
1 
the men did leave the plane after It had crashed In the lake. 
1 
"The passengers and pilot had to have escaped from the plane but probably suffered from exposure," 
\Jackson said. "It Is possible that they were able to swim away, but became confused In the fog and swam in the wrong direction." 
Jackson said the cold water would prevent the bodies from floating to shore because the low temperature prevents the chemical activity that
I 
causes bodies to surface. 
Using flotation devices, divers 

Ferency, who said he knows of people who were listed because they attended meetings at which he spoke, added that a state trooper had told him years ago that there was a file on him. 
The lawyer said he has not been notified officially of such a file -al­though his wife, whom he described as "relatively Inactive in politics," has been. 

"Clearly there's some kind ofsub­terfuge going on here," said Larry Hochman of the Wayne C.ounty Office of Human Relations. "There's no question in my mind the state police have flies on other people ... they're simply not revealing." 
• Hochman, who won the right to see his file through the suit filed by Ferency, said, "Too many people are making light ofwhat the state police did ... as though the surveillance of 

... . ..Reds 



Proctor & Gamble 
Invites You To 
''True Confessions ofa Brand Manager" 
A discussion of career opportunities in 
advertising/brand management at 
Proctor and Gamble 
Thursday,Jan.15, 1981 7:00pm Lower Level -Centerfor Continuing Education 
8·5 Mon.·Sat. Badin Hall University ol Notre Dame (Evenings by Appointment) 

UNIVERSITY HAIR STYLISTS 
FULL SERVICE UNISEX CENTER 
"""",---------HAIR CUTTING SPECIALISTS--------....._ 
Our master stylists have the up·to·date and eonventional styles lor the men and women ol the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's eampuses. 
Let us take eare ol all your hair eare needs. We also have a lull line of retail hair products and are located on campus ·lor your convenience. 
bona fide left-wing groups would be OK but people who just attended things should not have been. 
"It bothers me, the kind remarks that some people have been making, that it's a mark of honor to have been on there," he said. "That may be correct, but it takes away from the obnoxiousness ofit all." 
Hochman, who ran on ·the 1968 New Politics Party presidential tick­et in Michigan with former Black Panther Eldridge Cleaver, said the Red Squad began a file on him in 1952 when he was a college student. 
He said the file noted such things as his presence at a concert by folksinger Pete Seeger and at a music festival honoring Paul Robeson. 
State pollee told a legislator in 1974 that the Red Squad budget was more than $770,000 for its last year ofoperation. 
"Money that could have gone to tracking down people engaged in real crime was divened to this kind ofhysteria," said the ACLU's Simon. 

Dale Robinson, the Notre Dame representattve, is presented as the Sugar Bowl Queen by the mayor ofNew Orleans. (Photo by john Macor) 



IRISH COUNTRY 
(Under New Management) 
744N. Notre Dame at
.. 

South Bend Ave. 232-0111 
Beer,Wine, Good Food and A Good Time Live Music this Week Thurs, Fri & Sat 
Lunches Daily 12-3 
Pizza & Sandwiches 6 till12 
Bring in this Ad ­Have a Beer On Us 
219·283·4395 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Editorials Thursday,January 15, 1981 -page 6 El Salvador: Inconsistencies in U.S. policy more revolutionary approachBy WILLIAM PHELAN paramifltary death squads responsible for an estimated 80On August I, 1980, the Con­percent of those victims.gressional Research Service of Moreover, a recent reorganiza­the Library of Congress tion of the junta. induced by U.S.published Issue Brief IB80064, pressures, has not rectified the"EI Salvador: U.S. Interests and situation but may, in fact. worsenPolicy Options." The brief cites it because the reformist juntaDeputy Assistant Secretary of member, Colonel Adolfo Majano,State for Inter-American Affairs, was ousted from the junta whileJohn A. Bushnell, who, while his more conservative Pentagon­testifying before the Appropria­supported counterpart, Coloneltions in March, 1980, stated that: Jaime Gutierrez, was retained and given full control of the" ... the policy of the Car­military.ter administration in In the case of El Salvador, theCentral America is based United States has allowed on two guiding principles. politico-strategic considerationsFirst, there is a recognition to overshadow its professedthat because traditional foreign policy objectives of socialpatterns are in many. cases justice, democracy, the guaranteeboth unjust and unsus­of human rights, and no­tainable, change is in­involvement in the internal affairsevitable, and therefore the of a sovereign nation. It has doneUnited States is committed so because some experts in theto broad-based social and State Department fear that El Sal­economic reform and vador will become the bat­protection of human rights tleground for the leftist forces ofwith all groups participat­Nicaragua and the rightist forcesing in the determination of a coalesced into a broad unitedYet the junta, besides lacking toward the realization of their ob­of Guatemala. These analystsmore equitable future. front to seek the fulfillment ofpopular support and the means to jectives. This new approach was warn that such a confrontationSecond, although the U.S. their aspirations.control increasing political legitimized by the then Roman would dramaiically increase thegovernment has views and At first the government opposi­violence, is also unrepresentative Catholic Archbishop of El Sal­political instability of Centralwill support local reform tion sought to realize its goalsof the diverse segments of Sal­vador, Oscar Arnulfo Romero, America, lead to the spread ofand initiative, it will not at­through a non-radical course ofvadorean society. In effect, in its who stated that "whe'n all peace­Communism, and· detrimentallytempt to impose its will. participation in the nation's elec­attempt to alleviate the intense ful means have been exhausted, affect the security of the PanamaEspecially, it will not use toral system. This strategy of es­socio-political polarization in El the Church considen insurrec­Canal and the availabity of oilmilitary force in situations tablishing a reformist centerSalvador, the U.S. has tried to tion moral and justified." Be­from recently-discoveredwhere only domestic between the reactionary right andcreate a center in a political sys­cause of his efforts on behalf of deposits in Mexico and groups are in contention." the revolutionary left wastem that has no viable center. As a the Salvadorean people against Guatemala.abandoned in 1972 when theresult of its efforts, U.S. foreign the state, Father Romero was as­Yet the biggest mistake of U.S.As they stand, the two prin­presidential candidate of the Na­policy in El Salvador has failed to sassinated in a rightist-organized foreign policy analysts is their at­tiona! Opposition Union (aciples are commendable, espe­prevent, and may even have plot on March 24, 1980. tempt to characterize the popularcially in view of the long history of moderate reformist coalition) wasprolonged, the inevitable struggle The U.S., in direct contrast to forces of El Salvador as an amor­U.S. military intervention in defeated by the governmentalnow taking place among the Sal­its professed foreign policy phous mass of radical MarxistCentral America and our tradi­candidate in the notoriouslyvadorean people. guidelines for Central America, ideo1ogues. In reality, the opposi­~·tional support of ri~ht-wing fraudulent election of that year.The struggle in El Salvador is has indeed imposed its will on the tion forces are comprised of amilitary dictatorships in that The feasibility of a reformist­the result of profound structural Salvadorean government and broad coalition of the middle andregion of the world. However, centrist government was furtfier and systemic inequalities that people. By supporting two con­lower class sectors of Sal­recent U.S. activities involving El diminished in 1976 when miitaryhave existed witein the country secutive juntas since the 1979 vadorean society -educators,Salvador demonstrate that dictator Molina, proposing some since the nineteenth century. coup which ousted President small businessmen, labor unions,officially-announced foreign minor agrarian reforms in an at­Ever since the matanza Romero (a coup which many the rural and urban poor, and thepolicy guidelines do not neces­tempt to appease the masses, was (massacre) of 1932 when Agustin analysts feel could not have taken Roman Catholic Church. Thesesarily determine the actual im­immediately opposed by the Farabundo Marti led an uprising place without U.S. collabora­sectors, espousing diverseplementation of foreign policy. traditional land-owning elite. of the poor against the elite­tion), and by continuing to ideologies and seeking a moreMolina was subsequentlyU.S. policy in El Salvador has supported military regime of provide military aid for the equitable and humane society,replaced by the ultra-been implemented in an attempt General Maximiliano Hernandez country's armed forces (a represent the great majority of theconservative General Carlosto avoid the unavoidable. The Martinez, the oppressed people practice finally suspended in nation's pop1,1lation and, accord­Humberto Romero.U.S. government has used of El Salvador have desperately retaliation for the recent murders ing to the U.S.'s own guidelines,Recognizing the futility of es­economic and military incentives struggled for human justice, of four American missionaries in should play a role in the futuretablishing a civilian centristto influence the creation of what it political equality, and socio­El Salvador), the U.S. has direct­development of El Salvador.government through legal meansconsiders to be a moderate junta. economic reform. After forty nine ly contributed to the violence in At present the U.S. has only(something the U.S. government years of repressive military dic­El Salvador, violence which limited policy options in El Sal­William Phelan is a doctoral can­has yet to recognize), the opposi­tatorships (in alliance with the claimed nine thousand victims in vador. It must break its tier withdidate in Notre Dame's department of tion, buoyed by the victory of the oligarchic coffee-elite), the 1980. The juntas have been the traditional oligarchic-militarygovernment and international Sandinistas in neighboringpopular forces have finally unable to control the right-wing alliance and discontinue supportstudies. Nicaragua, have now chosen a of the ruling junta. Failure to implement either of these policies will only prolong the struggle in El Salvador and subject the Sal­Doonesbury Garry Trudeau vadorean people to more social injustice and political repression. In the final analysis, the U.S.MOVING !?IGHTALONG. GENERAL, MAY I A551JM&, must allow the domestic strugglePI& FIN/) 7HJlTANrlTH/31?. ON£ OF 6f3NE;R/Il, 7HIS IS MAYlE ITlit45 ()= 7HAT, 8IfT/AI&' in El 6alvador to pursue its in­YOUR.. CEL.EBRA7W "/r119310N5" JUST m& MORE """ "'"Y. L.EAK&O BY HAO NO ta1AL NA5 CEL/Vfli!llf3 70 Til& FBI MR. 57:4/N orWHICH 'w ''V1 , evitable course toward a moreTH& V!CT7M5. Al/THORJ7Y 70 1</SSINGt/<.'5 fl8}(J!;S75 fDf!.. YOtJ ARE ACTt.IAtt.Y saJA~. just society. At the same time it\ Pl.AC&TAP5!N IA/IR£!APS ON HIS PR/Jf)/)7 '.. C4M801?1A. must work together with other ()(AJN 5TAFF.. . ....._,____, members of the Organization of ~,fl., American States to prevent the internal struggle from escalating into an international conflict. By following these proposals, the United States will be dealing Sal­vadorean despotism a fatal blow and will be laying the foundation for a more realistic and humane foreign policy posture toward all of Latin America.  

Editorial Board and Department Managers 


==IheDbseaer== 
Editor-in-Cbief...................................... Paul Mullaney Sports Editor...........................................Beth Huffman Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Editor...........................................\iark Rust Features Editor.......................................Molly Woulfe 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Editorials Editor..............................Michael Onufrak Photo Editor ...............................................john Macor University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Collese. It does not necessanly Sentor Copy Editor.....................Mary Fran Callahan reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news 1s reported Executive News Editor.........................Tomjackman Business Manager ..................................Greg Hedges as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opm10n _of a NewsEditor............................................... Pam Degnan Controller ........................................................jim Rudd majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are rh_e v1ews News Editor ................................... : ..:........Lynne Daley Advertising Manager...................................Mark Ellis of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the c~mmumty, and SMC Executive Editor.......................~.Margie Brassil Circulation Manager............................Beth Hackett the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, 1s encouraged. SMCNews Editor............ , ......................... Mary Leavitt Production Manager...........................John McGrath 

The Observer Thursday,January 15, 1981 -page 7 


After The 
..


Fact 


/· 
/ 

,;~t!\7 
i(: :,/. \ 
. ,, \ 
/ ' 

. '/ ~ II 
,[ ..:..~,t__.. , . 
Photo Essay byJohn Macor 
Even though the game Itself was a disappointing loss, the New Orleans experience was nothing short offantastic. That was the feeling ofthe contin· gent of Notre Dame studen.ts and alumni who trekked to this historical, diverse city to witness the 1981 Sugar Bowl Classic. The game Itselfbecame almost secondary since tbe city offered so much to tbe tourist. 
The French Quarter, with Its French Creole arch~tecture and beautiful iron railings (seen at left), proved to be the center stage of tbis immense party. Bourbon Street on New Year's Eve was a solid and slow· mewing mass of human bodies. This was attributed to tbe fact tba.tlt is tbe mostfamous street in the French Quarter, and its nightlife is unsurpassed. 
New Orleans provided tbe tourist with Innumerable opttons since tbe city is saturated with history. Many but/dings tmd monuments tba.t have played a role In our country's history were quite accessible to tbe tourist (for ex­ample.]ackson Square wbich is pictured left). 
Although tbe football game Itself was surrounded by a number ofifs, tbe entire event was one that wtll never be forgotten by those wbo participated. 
John Macor 


r --
Ihe ObserYer====::=================== 



~«:)cJlC3l~=========================T=h=ur=s=da=y=,J=an=u=ary==1=5=,1=9=8=1==p=a=g=e=8 


.. 
Campus 
•4 
p.m. -seminar, "linear response theory of solvated electrons," dr. koichi funabashi, radiation lab. 

•7, 
9 & 11 p.m. -movie, "shampoo," engineering auditorium. 

•8 
p.m. -lecture, "nietzsche & metaphor," prof paul cantor, u. ofva., haggar hall auditorium. 



Tom Gibbons receives scholarship 

Peanuts® Charles M. Schulz 

AT THE 6LACK80ARD••• 


FOR. THE FIRST TIME
THE SECOND PROBLEM, 
IN FRONT OF THE WHOLE 
IN MV LIFE, I BELIEVE
MA'AM? '(ES, MA'AM ... 
IN SCHOOL PRAVER! 


29 Scarcely
l;he 
sufficient 30 Daughter of Eurytus 31 Wonderland


Daily Crossword 
girl 32 Columbia men
ACROSS 
33 Stephen

1 Salver 41 Siamese 

DOWN VIncent-
Tom Gibbons is one of33 football 

5 Biblebook twin seniors from around the country to 1 Melt 35 Chapter of 
9 Unkempt 42 C111rtain 
2 -Hashanah the Koran 
receive a 12,000 NCAA 
one alloy 3 Against 38 A Kennedy 13 Sharpen 43 Tnen's

postgraduate scholarship. 
4 Twelve­39 Moves14 Rainand distress
Gibbons, a three-year starter in 

month unsteadilytear 44 Agathe: 5 Letln
the Irish secondary, joins fellow 
40 Sailor16 Manofthe abbr. 

6 Withered 46 Taxi
senior Bob Burger as a recipient of 
road 45 Fervor woman 

47 1156an academic award for the 1980 

17 Moviedog 46 Peak 7 Chinese 48 Sloping
season. Burger earned a National 
18 French 47 Cameupon group • channelartist 48 Auditor
Football Foundation and Hall of 
8 Raced 49 Fountain19 Entrance
Fame scholar-athlete ·· award in 
9 Tonsure
50 Sc:ored on and Rose20 Certain
December. 
all'lomer 10 N.J. town 50 -Ia guerremuslim 11 Sashes
59 Biographer 51 Otiose
Both Gibbons and Burger were 

23 Consumed LEIOn 12 Thetwo 52 Actual
first-team selections on the 1980 
24 Bitter herb 60 Ccmtradict 15 Breastbone 53 Boloney25 Freshset
Academic All-America football team 
21 "Nowl­
61 Shalt joint29-Fein
named by the College Sports In­
62 European me down ..." 54 Building31 Priestly
formation Directors ofAmerica 
22 "Many shall 
63 List of item Gibbons boasts a 3.05 grade 
vestment -and fro" 55 Churchcandidates34 Racetrack 25 Lassos feature

64 Blind part 65 Lowcaste 26 Happening 56 Realtor's
average in aerospace engineering, 
35 Lookout 
36 Goifball
while Burger carries a 3.78 in 
27 Sweater sign
position Hindu 37 Nonstop
chemistry. Gibbons eventually 
66 Angers size 57 Dash
hopes to attend law school; Burger 
67 Millay 28 Mountain 58 Bristleaction
has plans for medical school. 


ARMY ROTC PROVIDES 
merit scholarships-up to $20,000 !!! leadership-development 
CALL
management training 

(219) 283-62~4
·adventure employment opportunity Graduate from Notre Dame as an Army Officer 

The Observer 
Thursday,January 15, 1981 -page 9 
Belles up record to 5-2 
Women's Sports Editor 
A solid performance on defense carried Saint Mary's basketbaU team to a 66-51 win over Purdue-Calumet Tuesday night. The victory lifted the Belles to 5-2 on the season. 
"Defense was the key to the game," explained Coach Jerry Dallesio. "We also rebounded very well--it was reaDy the best we've played all year." 
Gretchen Meyer pumped in a team high 14 points for Saint Mary's while teammate Maureen King chipped in 12 points; Usa Shirz grabbed 8 rebounds. Purdue-Cal was led by Hilda Tarver's 18 point 
effort. 

Although worried about how the three week layoff woutd effect his club, Dalleslo's fear were quieted when the Belles raced to a 33-25 halftime lead they never relin­queshed 
"It was a great team victory,': noted Dalleslo. "We're ac~ally abead of where we were three weeks ago." 
Saint Mary's travels to Depaw tonight before hosting Taylor next Monday. Both games will be a struaJe, according to Dalleslo. 
"They'D both be tough, but I think everyone has made a lot of in­dividual Improvement. I think we look good." 
eli-55 
Kentucky tops Ole Miss 
LEXINGTON, Ky. (AP) -Sam leading scorer Elston Turner was and depth to maintan an adequate:Bowie score,d 18 points and Derrick forced to the bench early in the 
cushion, but never got ahead byHord added 14 as third-ranked Ken­second half with an apparent leg, in­
more than 13 points. 
tucky overcame Mississippi's tena­jury. cious, pressing defense for a 64-55 Turner, who was averaging 21.3 
Kentucky then mounted a mlld Southeastern Conference basketbaU points before Wednesday's game, 
raUy and appeared ready to make the victory last night. finished the night with just four. In game a rout. Fred Cowan hit an ]8­Kentucky improved to Il-l over­his absence, Carlos Clark took up the footer, Dicky Beal struck from the all and 4-0 in the SEC. Ole Miss fell to slack and led all scorers with 21 corner and Melvin Turpin scored in 6-7 overall and, 1-4 in league play. points. Ole Miss' Cecil Dowell added the lane to give the Wlldcats a 43-31 The Rebels' Scrappy defense kept 10. lead with 8:15 to go. Play was fairly them in the ball even after even from that 
The loyal Georgia fans displayed their appreciation for the Bull­dogs with a boisterous and disorder(y celebration following the Sugar Bou•ltJictory. (Photo byjohn Macor) 


Sports c=B=r'=·e~== 

A mandatory meeting for anyone interested in playing varsity lacrosse this spring will be held tomorrow at 4:30p.m. In the ACC auditorium. Contact Coach Rich O'Leary at 4563 for more 
information. 
Rich Hunter will hold an organizational meeting today at 
4:30 p.m. in the ACC Auditorium for all those interested in playing varislty soccer. 
Practice for Bengal Bouts will being Monday at 
4 p.m. in the boxing room. The Bengal Bouts are scheduled for March 1, 4 and 7. 
THE ND STUDENT UNION AND 

SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS PROUDLY PRESENTS 
"~ BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN 


NlllS9NIHdS l~nua 

MONDAY, JANUARY 26th, 8:00 P.M. NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC & CONVOCATION CENTER 
ALL SEATS RESERVED $11.00 -$1 0.50 -$1 0.00 Tickets on sale now at: A.C.C. Box Office; Robertson's, South Bend & Concord Mall; First Bank, Main Branch; St. Joe Bank, Main Branch; Elkhart Truth; Suspended Chord, Elkhart; all three River City Outlets including Michigan City; Record land, Benton Harbor; JR's, laPorte; Butterfly, Warsaw; Carma and Passtime in Fort Wayne. 
ntt·•···-· ----~---=------· ._...;.._......-....--·­
-·---­
·­




The Observer Thursday,January IS, 1981 -page 10 
...Irish 


jobn Paxson puncbed in 18 points in bis personal contest witb Indiana's super-guard, /stab Thomas. (Photo byjohn Macor) 



Ct~t?ftJII 

Continued from page 11 
Marquette 54, ND 52 
MILWAUKEE, Jan. 10 -Mar­
quette freshman Glenn Rivers took a 
page out of Notre Dame's book by 
hitting a desperation 35-foot run­
ning jumper at the buzzer to beat the 
Irish, 54-52. 
The Warrior victory snapped an 
eight-game ND win streak that 
began after the Irish lost their 
opener to UCLA, 94-81. ' 
Marquette gained possession with 
one second left and the score tied at 
52 after Irish forward Orlando 
Woolridge lost control ofa jump ball 
out of bounds. Guard Michael 
Wilson, inbounding the ball along 
the ·sideline in the Irish frontcourt, 
couldn't find either Oliver Lee or 
Dean Marquardt open under the 
Warrior basket. 
That's when Rivers, streaking 
down the sideline, called for the ball 
as the safety valve on the play. 
Wilson hit Rivers near the left hash 
mark in the Marquette frontcourt, 
and in one lunging motion Rivers 
put up the bank shot that sank the 
Irish. 
"Every time I've ever seen Notre 
Dame play, I've seen someone like 
(Kelly) Tripucka or Austin Carr 
throw in 50-footers at the buzzer," 
said Rivers. "Today we did it to 
them." 
The Irish also helped do it to themselves. After Oliver Lee's jum­per made it 52-all with 3:29 left, the visitors looked for the last shot. But with four seconds left, ND forward TracyJackson was tied up by Rivers. That forced the jump ball that went out ofbounds off Woolridge, setting up Rivers' last-second heroics. 
"I think looking for the last shot is a good move when you're on the road and the score is tied," said ND coach Digger Phelps. "We just didn't execute it right." 
Phelps first called for his spread­out offense with 9:26 left and the score tied, 42-42. Three-point plays by Tripucka andJohn Paxson helped the Irish jump out to a five-point lead, 50-45. 
With 7:48 left, a Rivers shot only drew iron, but Warrior forward Terrell Schlundt scored on the rebound, was fouled by Sluby, and converted the three-point play, making the score 50-48. 
"That was the key to the game," said Phelps. "When you've got a five­point lead on the road, you've got to get the defensive rebounds. If you can't do that, it's awful tough to keep a lead." 

Tripucka led all scorers with 18 points, despite suffering from a stomach virus which kept him in the locker room for a four-minute stretch late in the game. Paxson and Woolridge had 14 and 10, respectively. 
Marquardt, Lee and Wilson led Marquette with I 5, 12 and 11 points. 
The game was dose throughout, with Marquette's 24-18 first-half lead marking the largest margin. There were I4 lead changes and eight ties in the contest. 
Paul Mullaney 
USF66,ND63 

OAKLAND,Jan. I3 -Notre Dame suffered its second straight defeat within four days as the San Francisco Dons upset the Irish 66-63 in overtime. 
Digger Phelps' squad suffered from an attack of cold shooting, hit­ting less than 50 percent from the field for the first time in the 1980-SI season. 
The Irish were also hampered by USFs aggressive 2-3 zone defense, which not only kept the offense from penetrating the lane, but also 




ATTENTION 
PREMED MAJORS 
NEED FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE? 
The Air Force needs doctors. So, we may help finance your college education with an Air Force --ROTC scholarship. 
We have three and two-year AFROTC PreHealth Profes­sions Scholarships for qualified applicants. These scholarshipsContact pay full tuition, lab and incidental fees, books, plus $100 a month (tax free) during the school year. Upon completion of Air Force ROTC and hac-Capt. Gottrich calaureate degree requirements. you'll be commissioned as an Air Force second (283-6635) lieutenant. When accepted to medical school. additional assistance for medical 
scpool expenses is guaranteed with an Armed Forces Health Pro-For More Information fessions Scholarship. 
-O Get together with an Air Force ROTC representative and discuss these two programs. It may be the most import­ant talk you've ever had about your future. 

BOTC 
Gateway to a great way of life. 

Grapplers face tough uphill battle 
ByBILL MARQUARD a 1 p.m. quadrangular meet on Satur­Sports Writer day with )Vabash, Lincoln and host Millildn. Notre Dame owns an un­With its seaso111 barely at the blemished 5-0 record against halfway point and :il more intensive Millikin, who the Irish defeated 43-5 slate of dual and tournament in the ACC last year, and it holds a 
matches on tap for the next month 12-1 advantage over Wabash, and a halt; prospects for the Notre including a 29-9 Irish victory during Dame wrestling team do not appear the 1979-80 season. Notre Dame has as bright as expected. 
never battled Lincoln. To say that the Irish are at a disad­Mark Fisher (Buchanan, Mich.; 7-6 vantage would be an understate­record) will open the Irish lineup at ment-The squad, which had been 126 pounds, followed by regular able to support only eight of the ac­134-pounder Curt Rood (Sturgis, customed 10 weight classes, has lost Mich.; 2-8-1 ). Sophomore Mike Mills entrants at three of those eight · (Mt-Pleasant, Mich.; 6-1 0-1 ) will 
weights, leaving half a lineup for first-year coach IBrother joseph Bruno to send to the the com­petitive mat. Because the Irish will wrestle just five men the best they can manage in a dual meet, should all five men oin their opponents, is a tie. The Irish travel to Decatur, Ill. for 
forced turnovers when the Irish tried to force the ball inside to Orlando Woolridge or Kelly Tripucka Only Tracy Jackson's second half consistency kept the Irish in range, not just on offense but defense as well. Jackson spear­headed a full court press which led to several key USF turnovers during Notre Dame's late rally. 
A three-point play by Woolridge with 4:34 left brought the Irish back from what had been an II point deficit, and shortly thereafter, with the game still tied at 58, Phelps directed his offense into its now familiar stall/spread. However, the Irish made no moves toward the bas­ket until the final seconds, when Tripucka threw up an off-balance 1 7-footer and Varner missed on a fol­lowup. 
The lead changed hands often in the overtime period, with USF taking a one-point lead on two Ken McAlis­ter free throws with 14 seconds left. The Irish worked patiently for the final shot, and Tripucka had an open I2-footer with four seconds left, but it bounced off the front of the rim, Dons guard Quentin Dailey grabbed the rebound, and his final foul shots assured USF's perfect record against Notre Dame in the Oakland Coliseum. 
work to snap a streak at 142 pounds 
-while sophomore John Campana (Ames," Ia; 7-5-1) will anchor the Irish at 150. Unless some ofthe mat reserves move up to a higher weight class, Brian Erard (Reston, Va; 4-8) will close out the depleted Irish lineup at 158 pounds. 
• • .Sugar 
Continued from page 12 
left Notre Dame behind 17-10, and kept Irish hopes for a win alive. 
"In 33 years I've never had a team quit on me," said Devine. And the Irish did not quit. 
Sparked by defensive coordinator Joe Yonto's sharp reprimands at halftime, tri-captain Bob Crable and his fellow defensemen held the talented Walker to just 26 yards in the final quarter. 
It looked like the Irish still had a prayer as the defense held Walker & Co. and the offense took over mid­way through the fourth period. 
Scott Woerner, Georgia's senior cornerback who ended finish second in the MVP balloting, sealed the Irish men's fate late in the fourth quarter when he intercepted a Kiel pass intended for Dean Masztak. 
The Dogs ran out the clock, and assured themselves of a national championship with the I 7-10 win. 



The Observer Thursday,January 15, 1981-page 11 

Basketball team 
Irish now stand at 8-3 
Editor's  note:  Since  we  last  All I 5 players saw action for the  Dame's  first  victory  over  the  
published, tbe Notre Dame basket­ Irish,  who  took  advantage  of 20  Wildcats  since  1973.  Classmates  
ball team bas played seven games.  Crusader  turnovers  to  satisfy  the  Orlando  Woolridge  and  Tracy  
Now 8-3, tbe Irish saw big wins Ol'l!r  I 0, 123 fans on hand.  Jackson  had  1 5  and  14  points,  
teams like Indiana and Kentucky  "We were just trying to get back  respectively, to Ice a win that Hall  
during  an  eight-game  u•inning  into  the  swing  of  things,"  said  was at a loss to explain.  
streak. Coach Diggt>r Phelps' crew  Phelps, "so we wanted to get a lot of  "They did things that we should  
bas since dropped tu•o in a row-to  guys into the game that hadn't been  have stopped," he complained after­ 
Marquette and San Francisco. The  playing."  wards. "We just didn't play our game  
following game summaries recap  Valpo held tough for the first nine  tonight."  
all the action since tbe last issue of  minutes, trailimg  14-12. Then the  However, nothing anyone could  
The Observer.  Irish  employed  a  full-court  press  say  or  write  would  adequately  
that changed the whole game. Notre  capture the feeling in the Irish lock­ 
ND 68, Indiana 6l  Dame outscored its guests, 18-2, in a seven-minute stretch before taking a  er room after this one. "You guys worked hard and you  
32·18 lead at the half.  believed  in  yourselves  and  each  
NOTRE  DAME,  Dec.  9  - The  The  Irish  were  content  to  ex­ other," Phelps told the players. "You  
headlines read, "Notre Dame defeats  change  buckets  for  most  of the  were  willing  to  spend  Christmas  
Indiana," but they could have easily  second half Only once did either  away from home to accomplish this  
been  written,  "Digger  outsmarts  team score as many as six points in  and it Is something you will remem­ 
Knight." Because this game, a 68-64 Notre Dame victory, belonged to Digger Phelps as much as anyone.  succession -that was when Valpo started to erase its largest deficit of 21 points (65-44) with five minutes  ber for the rest ofyour lives." Frank LaGrotta  
"The game plan beat Indiana," an·  left.  
nounced  forward  Kelly Tripucka,  Valpo forward Craig Maass led all  
who scored 16 points for the Irish. "We knew what we had to do to win  scorers with 20 points. GuardsJohn Mcilvain and Julian Hudson had I 0  ND 87, Davidson 67  
and we did it."  each.  
The game was billed as a head-to­ Kelly Tripucka led the Irish with  CHARLOlTE, N.C., Jan. 4-Kelly  
head clash between Indiana's Isiah  16  points  and  seven  rebounds.  Tripucka  continued  his  scoring  
Thomas  and  Notre  Dame's John  Orlando Woolridge chipped in with  spree in warmer climes and the vic­ 
Paxson  - two  of college  basket·  12 points and Tracy Jackson had I 0.  tims in this game were the Davidson  
ball's better point guards. Thomas  Wildcats who fell, 87-67, before a  
won the battle of the stat sheet with  Paul Mullaney  much-less-than-capacity  crowd  of  
22 points to Paxson's 18, but It was  5,579.  
the clear contention of most who  Tripucka had 21 points on a  I 0­ 
saw the game that Paxson got the best of his Hoosier classmate.  ND 67, Kentucky 61  for-14 was  shooting performance that complimented by Tracy  
"They arc two of tht· best in the country," said Coach Bobby Knight afterwards. "But yes," he agreed when pressed, "I'd have to say John had a better game tonight." It was an important game for the 3·1 Irish who had dropped a tough one to UCLA In their opener before struggling through three games with opponents hardly worthy ofseats on the bench. "We had to win this one because It was important for our confidence as a team," commented Paxson after­wards. "Hut it Is still just one game and we have a long way to go before the end of the season." Frank LaGrotta  LOUISVILLE, Dec. 27 -It had to be one of the high points in Notre Dame basketball's long, illustrious history. On this night in Freedom Hall, the Irish put to rest the nasty rumor that they could not beat the Kentucky Wildcats without the help of God, the militia and Kareem AbduiJabbar. The final score was 6 7-61, and what resulted was a feeling of achieve­ment and euphoria that every Irish cage fan could savor for a long, long time. Kelly Tripucka, winner of the Bernie Shively Award given to the game's most valuable player, hit eight of 14 field goal attempts and 14 of I 5 from the line for 30 points -and nothingJoe B. Hall and his band of weary Wildcats came up with  Jackson's 15 points and Orlando Woolridge's I0. Notre Dame shot 61 percent from the field as a team, prompting great optimism on the part of Coach Digger Phelps. "We are right where we want to be at this point in the season," he said afterwards. "We're playing well and giving a lot of people some playing time. That's what we were hoping for at the beginning of the season." ND 91, Vlllanova65 PHILADELPHIA, Jan. 6 -Digger Phelps' annual visit to the City of Brotherly Love turned into a romp as the Irish earned their most im­ Forward Kelly 1'ripucka bit /6 points in tbe win ot•er Hobby Kn igbt's Hoosiers. (Photo byjobn Macor) air of revenge In the sold-out 6:55 left In the game with I 1 points Palestra, the Villanova partisans mostly from the charity stripe. recalling last year's Irish victory on Besides fine scoring perfor­Jackson's last-second, 30-foot mances from the Irish starters, prayer. But without Bradley -Vil­(Woolridge 16,John Paxson II, and lanova's leading rebounder and cap­Trlpucka l 7 ), reserves Tom Sluby tain -the Notre Dame front line of and Hill Varner also had t•xcellent 6-9 Orlando Woolridge, 6-6 Kelly games. Varner hit double figures Tripucka, and center combination of with I 0 points and the freshman 6-I l Joe Kleine and 6-10-Tim Sluby captured more than his share Andree consistently limited Vil­ofrebounds while It-ndlng a hand on lanova to a single shot each time the defense. Cats came up the floor. An extra treat for the crowd was The outmanned Wildcats put up a provided in the game's closing mo­vigorous man-to-man defense to no ments by the outside shooting of avail as the taller Irish scaled the Notre Dame freshman forward Cecil  
ND 69, Valpo 56  could stop the senior forward. "Our game plan was simple," smiled Digger Phelps afterwards.  pressive victory this year, stomping the Villanova Wildcats by 29 points, 94-65.  boards -grabbing 19 rebounds in the first halfalone -and compelled the Cats to either stand by or com·  Rucker. The 6-8 Rucker threw in two picturesque baskets, displaying superb outside shooting ability for a  
"We knew Tripucka was hot and we  mit a foul.  big man.  
NOTRE DAME, Dec. 22 -After a 13-day layoff which included final exam week, the Irish played just well enough to hold off a feisty, but undermanned, Valparaiso squad, 69­'i6, at the ACC.  wanted to take advantage ofit. So we got the ball to him whenever we could and hoped he would either hit his shot or get fouled." He did both on numerous oppor­tunities and what resulted was Notre  Led by hot-shooting guard Tracy Jackson (20 points, mostly on soft­touch swishes from 1 5 feet or more) and benefiting from an injury to Vil­lanova forward Alex Bradley, the Irish led from the opening buzzer. As the game began there was an  Offensively the Wildcats tried to work the ball inside to stand-out sophomore centerJohn Pinone. The 6-7 Pinone was able to draw fouls from Woolridge and Trlpucka, though not at the same rate he was forced to inflict them at the other end of the court. He fouled out with  Mike" Mulquin led Vill;.mova with 14. Michael Otlufrak See IRISH, page 10  

Classifieds 
HELP WANTED • Earn up to Then there were the two WELCOME BACK FP!LLOW
NOTICES 

$1,000 or more for a few /Obaerverltea RELAXED GEECHES, don't youCRAIG-HAPPY 21ST, HOPE 
evenlnga work. No aelllng. Juat who tried to get 1 mooae Into the juat love my tan? How w.. the MILWAULKEE WAS FUN. 
hang poatera on your campua offlce ... never mind. anow, you loaera? I have BETH ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
advertlalng our half-price toura definitely found 1 new rommle of Europe. For detalla, write: Will Marty be back from achool? con. Pleaae keep thoae N.Y. FOR RENT 
TRAVEL STUDY INTERNATION­If not, who will get all hla II· reaolutlona. I wan't to be able to AL, 2030 E. 4800 South, Sulta buma? Tune In for mora. opan the door to our room. No 
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

Two rooma for rent. Ten minute 101, Salt Lake City, Utah84117 • more pita. C.n't walt to be a walk from campua. One hundred FRANKIE-LOOK OUT, IT'S throat Con and LES. and twenty dollar• a month KEITH VAN HORNE Ill
PERSONALS love, 
Including utllltlea. Call Pat Mel­....................................... 
the tan L.F. nick at 233-6849 or at 1-216-439· Welcome back, Obaervltea. 5676. Are we 411 Say yea. Congrata. BEAUTIFUL REDHEADS: VIRILE 
00000000000000000000000000000000 
I mined you. FRESHMAN WANTS TO HAVE
Shirley The M.M.S.F. Ia alive In Dillon ... ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIPWANTED 
watch out Chrla algned... DR. WITH YOUIll HE PLAYS SOCCER 
There's good mooae, and PREP WELL, BASKETBALL. POORLY,
there' a bed mooae ... 

Need a job? 
LOVES THE BEA TLES. HE IS
The good mooae Ia, we're TO SHIRLEY, publlahlng again. FROM THE BUFFALO, N. Y. 
CAMPUS PRESS needa a 
aecretarylayout artlat to work 1· WITH A SHOT OF JACK AREA. HE IS APPROXIMATELY
The bed mooae Ia, we're atlll5 Tuea. & Thura. thla aemeater. 

DANIELS 5' 10 AND IN VERY GOOD
printing mooae Jokeal Job Include• taking order• and AND A BOTTLE OF BEER Q: How do you get all of the SHAPE, WITH EXCELLENT 

poater eat ujrno experience WE WISH YOU A MERRY Yukon to beat a path to your STAMINA. BLACK, necenary. Need aomeone CHRISTMAS door? WAVY/CURLY HAIR; BROWNwho'll be able to atay on for next AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR Ill A: Build a better mooaetrapl • EYES. HE CAN GET HIS ROOM
Kelly Tripuckafools Kentucky's Sam Bowie as be 

year. Apply In the Student Union LOVE, ALONE IN EMERGENCIES.
Welcome back one and alii

pumps In tU'o of his30 points against tbe Wildcats. 
offlcea, 2nd floor Lafortune. Any ED AND PAM CALL 3242 TO MEET THIS
Mooae Control 
(Photo by Steve Huffman) 

queatlona? Call Diane at 7922 ... 
....................................... AWESOME HUNK 



~----~---------~-­
r--.-----­

Thursday,january 15, 1981 -page 12 
Sugar proves not so S"\Veet for Irish 
By BETH HUFFMflN 14 ofhis 2 7 pa~sing attempts for 138 SportsEditor yards. Notre Dame's first scoring drive NEW ORLEANS -Vince Dooley's was typical of <he Irish season ­Irish blood beat out the traditional with the his team stalled at fourth­luck of the Irish as his Georgia Bull­and-four, Harry Miracle Man Oliver dogs won out over Notre Dame in stepped in to boot a 50-yard field 
the 47th Sugar Bowl Classic. The goal and put the Irish on top 3-0 ear­Bulldogs, recently selected by both ly in the first quarter. Just minutes the AP and UPI as the college foot­later Georgia managed to close ball champions for the first time in down Notre Dame's main scoring their 87 years of play, defeated the machine as Oliver's second attempt Irish 17-10. was blocked by Terry Hoage. Oliver, 
Notre Dame outshone the Bull­an alumus of Cincinnati's Moeller dogs in rushing and passing High School, proved he is only categories, but it was the turnover human when his third attempt and scoring results that gave the floated wide to the right in the third game to Dooley's squad. Georgia, quarter. which led the nation in takeovers, Following a 46-yard field goal by picked up one fumble, three inter­Georgia's Rex Robinson, tying the ceptions (one from Mike Courey score a 3·3, Dooley and his Dogs got and two from Blair Kiel) and a their first chance to capitalize on the botched kickoff return from the many Irish errors. Robinson kicked Irish. off with Jim Stone and Ty Barber 
The Irish also topped Georgia in receving for Notre Dame. The ball first downs ( 1 7-1 0) and third down dropped behind both Stone and Bar­conversions(6-for-20-2-for 16). ber and was recovered by Georgia's 
But as Dan Devine appropriately Kelly brothers on the one-yard line. 
Weekend split 
quoted Frank Broyles, Statistics are Steve and Bob Kelly's recover set the for losers. stage for Walker to plunge in, Led by Phil Carter's 109 yards on leaving the score 1 0-3 at the half. 27 carries, the Irish collected 190 "Ty (Barber) didn't hear me," said 


ND icers fall to 9-12-1 
yards on the ground. Georgia's fresh­Jim Stone, who was responsible for 
man sensation, Herschel Walker calling the kickoff reception. Bar­By BRIAN BEGLANE McNamara totaled 37 saves while a power-play goal with just 1 5 netted 150 on 36 <:aeries, but the ber's inability to hear Stone, who has Observer Sports Writer Tech goalie Frank Krieber stopped seconds to go in the period to make Dogs' total yardage dropped to 120 been his partner on returns for two 
26 shots. Notre Dame was called for it 2-1. as the Irish defense sacked quarter­years, was due largely to a record­
HOUGHTON, Mich. -The Notre 1 7 penalties while the Huskies were Both teams exchanged scores in back Buck Belue for a total of 34 breaking 77,895 fans who packed Dame hockey team pulled a Dr. whistled for 16. the second period. Todd Scott made yards. Walker, receipent of the the Superdome. Jeckyll and Mr. Hyde caper last "We were hurting on defense it 2-2 at 2:23 on a power play, butJeff Miller-Digby Memorial Trophy for Georgia picked up a fumble by
weekend that has left Irish coach when we lost Dan Collard (he broke Brownschidle put the Irish in the the the game's most outstanding Irish fullback John Sweeney on his Lefty Smith asking more questions a knuckle Saturday and will be out lead for good when he raced the player, was the first running back to own 20-yard line with less than a than an investigator -for Scotland four weeks)," said Smith. Collard, length of the ice to beat Tech goalie rush for over 100 yards this season minute gone in the third quarter.Yard. normally a left wing, was skating on Rob PolmanTuin. His goal at 9:51 against the stingy. Notre Dame Once again, it was Walker who led 
The Irish split their Western Col­the blue line in place of John Cox, made the score 3-2 heading into the 1defense. The He1sman trophy the drive and scored for the Dogs, legiate Hockey Association series who missed the series with a back final period. runner-up also scored both Georgia giving the Atlanta-based school a I 7­with Michigan Tech, but the injury. Junior Jeff Perry got the game­touchdowns, 3 edge. Devine tried almost every­
outcome of each game was as dif­"It was just one of those games," winning goal at 1:59 when he inter­"Herschel Walker is even greater thing to switch the momentum to ferent as night and day. Notre Dame continued Smith. "Friday, however, cepted an errant pass in front of when )IOU see him in person than his Irish, including trick plays and won the opener, 5-3, but the Huskies we skated well and moved the puck. PolmanTuin and fired a wrist shot when you see him on the films," said alternating key people. But, in the bombarded the Irish, 12-2, in Satur­We were playing with new lines and past the Tech goalie's stick side. Devine, who ended his coaching end the sixth-year Notre Dame day's second game here at the MTU I thought we adjusted quickly. And Scott's second goal ofthe game at career at Notre Dame with a 5 3-16-1 coach was forced to return to his Student Ice Arena. defensively, I thought we did a pret­12:33 pulled the Huskies to within record. bread-and-butter starters. 
The split gives the Irish a 5-9-0 ty god job." one, 4-3, but Humphreys iced the It was a disappointing day for The only other Irish scoring came WCHA record (9-12-1 overall) The Irish jumped out to a 1-0 lead game with an empty net goal with another Georgia back as junior late in the third quarter when Kiel, heading into tomorrow night's Friday on Bill Rothstein's 1Oth goal just 20 seconds to play. Belue completed just one pass in forced back into action after Courey­series opener against first-place of the season at 5:14 of the first Irish goalie Dave Laurion, needing­twelve attempts for seven yards. sustained a broken hand, directed a North Dakota at the ACC (7:30 period. Ward Sparrow evened the just four saves iq the third period, Kiel, who was tapped to quarterback ten-play, 57-yard drive. Carter's TO faceoff). Notre Dame dropped to score at 16:37 but Rex Bellomy totaled 26 for the game. PolmanTuin Notre Dame just seconds before the ninth place in the league and is two regained the lead for Notre Dame on stopped 32 shots. first series of downs, connected on 
See SUGAR, page 10 

points behind eighth-piace Colorado College. 
Michigan Tech stayed at the .500 mark with a 7-7-0 record and is tied for fifth with Michigan imd Minnesota-Duluth. 
"Saturday's game was a nightmare," said Smith. "We 


DiStanislao,s squad hits .500 

off seven straight goals before would like us to be 1 0 games into Crowe's departure is forward Tricia eight contests, but missed the David­
Humphreys answered back with his Marquette lowered the Irish record the season," admits DiStanislao. "We McManus (Oak Ridge, Tenn.). A 5­
son and Villanova contests with ton­second of the game and third of the to4-6. played well against Iona (a 69-65 11 junior, McManus lists averages of sillitis. She saw only limited action
weekend at 7:35 ofthe third period. The worst holiday tidings, though, 
victory) and had back-to-back 5.2 points and 6.3 rebounds per against Marquette. 
By that time, the score was 7-2 and came off the court, where strong efforts at Davidson and Vil­game, but DiStanislao is more "Tricia has played very well ofthe outcome had long been decided. DiStanislao learned that leading lanova (a 70-57 loss), but four days enthused about other aspects of late," says DiStanislao. "She plays ex­
scorer and rebounderJanice Crowe

All totaled, Tech finished the rout ago Marquette, a team that I thought McManus's play. 
cellent defense, and shows a lot of(Deerfield Beach, Fla) will be lost to
five-for-eight on the power play and we should have beaten, handled us After-a slow start, sophomore for­leadership on the court."
the team for the remainder of the

with two shorthanded goals, both by with ease." ward Shari Matvey has gotten her of­Forbes made her first appearance Mike Lauen. Senior Rick Boehm, "This is an interesting point in the fensive game together, building her in a Notre'Dame unliorm in the loss
season due to academic difficulties. who missed the series opener due to season for us," DiStanislao says. "We average to 13.6 points. A 6-1 native to the Warriors after recovering
Crowe, a 6-0 sophomore forward, a team-enforced misconduct boasted marks of 13.4 points and have to regroup, and we're going to ofYoungstown, Ohio, Matvey is just from a dislocated patella in her 
10.2 rebounds per contest. It is the

penalty, and Terry finished the eve­have to do it without Jan, which seven points shy of the all-time kneecap. Forbes, North Carolina's 4­second time that she has been
ning with hat tricks. Both scored won't be easy." Notre Dame career scoring record. A Player ofthe Year in 1980, is slow­
placed on academic probation.

two goals each in the third period. One player DiStanislao is hoping Matvey, who set the Irish single-ly working her way back into shape. 

couldn't do anything right and Tech capitalized on our mistakes. We would just like to forget that one." By CRAIG CHVAL 
The Huskies did not lead the Sports Writer entire series until the 13:41 mark of Saturday's first period. Kevin The Notre Dame women's basket­
Humphreys had given the Irish a 1-0 ball team, trying to get back to the 
lead just 19 seconds into the game, .500 mark, didn't find much more but Tech went ahead on two power­than a lump of coal in its Christmas play goals. stocking. 
Bill Terry made it 1-1 at 2:59 and Coach Mary DiStanislao's club AI Mickalich put the Huskies ahead won two of its five road games for good at 13:41 as the evening durtng the holidays and briefly became a long one for Notre Dame reached the break-even mark with 
goalie Bob McNamara. Tech reeled an 85-37 thrashing of Davidson, but consecutive losses to Villanova and 
Irish women down Taylor 
The Notre Dame-women's basketball team defeated Taylor 77-71 last night in the ACC as the two schools met for the first time ever. 
Sophomore Shari Matvey pumped in 21 points for the Irish en route to setting a new career scoring record of686. Matvey surpassed 1980 graduateJane Politiski's career scoring mark of672. 
Freshman Molly Ryan chipped in 14 points for Mary DiStanislao's Irish, going seven-for-nine from the floor. 
"We're not as consistent as I to see fill the void created -by 
season, has averaged 6.6 points in 
season scoring mark as a rookie last winter, trails 1980 graduate Jane Politski's career total of672. She also has claimed the career field-goal leadership from Politski with 295 buckets. 
DiStanislao also is looking for her two blue-chip freshmen, Jenny Klauke (Glenview, Ill.) and Mary Joan Forbes (Raleigh, N.C.) to round back into shape quickly. 
Klauke, an all-state selection for Chicago's Marillac High School last 








