
• • .Theaters -page 7· 

-u~ 
VOL XV, NO.,.R" an indf'pendem student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Americans reveal Iranian brutality 
WIESBADEN, West Germany (AP) The freed American hostages gave new reports yesterday of brutal treatment by their Iranian captors -beatings, mock execu­tions, grim games of Russian roulette, death threats -and former President Carter accused Iran of "savagery against absolutely in· nocent hostage~." 
At the military hospital where the 'iO men and two women are recovering from their 14-month or­deal, a State Department official said, "it is clear we are continuing to un­cover evidence of serious mistreat· ment of our people during their captivity." 
A member of the medical team examining the Americans told The Associated Press some of the physi­cal abuse "was not unlike that which some ofour boys got from the North Vietnamese." 
A group of the former hostages emerged from the hospital yester­day and walked across the street for a dental examination. They wore blue pajamas or Air Force parkas and many waved .to well-wishers at the hospital gate. 
Following an emotional meeting with the former hostages Wednes­day that left him visibly shaken, Car­ter said the Iranians were guilty of "despicable acts of barbarism." On hl~ return to Plains. Ga., yesterday, Carter said that even as the hostages boarded a freedom flight to leave Iran they were forced, "one by one," to run a gantlet of jeers and kicks. 
He said "these are the acts of 
animals, almost." 
But Carter said the "solemn agree­ment" that won the hostages' release should be kept because it Involves the word of honor of the United States. The Reagan administration has said it will examine the agree­ment "very closely" before deciding whether to carry It out 
State Department spokesman Jack Cannon said in Wiesbaden that mistreatment included poor food, solitary confinement and being blindfolded. "On a number of occa­sions a number of persons were threatened with loaded revolvers," he said. 
"On a number of occasions some were threatened with death. Some were ordered to strip and lie on the floor and were threatened with death," Cannon said. 
Barry Rosen of Brooklyn, N.Y., chatting with reporters on the way to a dental examination, said the for­mer hostages had "many stories to tell" and that the agreement with Iran should be reviewed. 
Rosen was not specific about his treatment as a captive, but said, "I just feel that Iran is an outlaw country and it docs deserve tremen­dous criticism from the world." 
At a press briefing near the hospi­tal, Cannon said he had no reports of spcciJk injuries suffered by the hostages and in reply to a question added, "we have no reports so far of sexual abuse:." He said some hostages were deprived of sleep, "some were: forced to stand in the cold weather outside at night and some were manacled to chairs for 14 or 15 days." 
Cannon said the Americans were expected to return home toward the end ofthe week and that they "feel it is very necessary that they have this period of private rest and recupera­tion. 
The American hostages were afraid to tell cameramen who filmed them at Christmas that they were being mistreated in Iran, freed hostage Frederick "Rick" Kupke told his younger sister. 
"From what I gathered from him, they weren't treated right, like we thought. And they had to lie to the cameras because they were afraid of what might happen if they told the 
truth,"  Mrs.  Hopkins  said  of her  
Wednesday  phone  conversation  
withKupke.  

Kupke, a State Department com­munications specialist, was among the 52 hostages held for nearly 15 months. He was scheduled to leave the American Embassy on Nov. 5, 1979, the day after it was seized. He was one ofonly a handful ofhostages that did not appear on Christmas films from Iran. 
In another phone conversation, Kupke told his grandmother, Bessie Kupke, 84, of Renssalear, that Iranian militants often displayed mail addressed to the hostages, then destroyed it as the captives watched. 
Professor American cultural history 

FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 1981 
President freezes 
jobs 
WASHINGTON (AP) -In busi· 
ness suit Instead of formal dress, 
President Reagan had given The 
Speech before, from a hundred and 
more platforms, on the path to the 
White House:. But as a campaig· 
ner, he often had suggested he 
would get quick results In his efforts 
to prune government, balance the 
budget, slow lnftation. 
In his inaugural address, those: 
pledges were tempered a bit, per· 
haps by the magnitude ofthe federal 
bulwark before him. He said it will 
take more than days, weeks or 
months to deal with the nation's 
economic Ills. He said progress will 
be measured in inches and feet, not 
miles, as he sets abOut trying to curb J 
the powers of the federal govern· 
ment. 
His first step as president was a 
l 
step in that direction, a freeze on 
federal hiring to replace Jimmy Car­
ter's order pennittlng government 1 
agencies to fW one of every two 
vacancies. 
But the new administration 
conceded the Impact ofthat order Is 
not clear. "lbe net reduction in 
1 
federal civilian employment as a I result of the order cannot be predicted with confidence at this 
I 
I
time," the White House said Reagan's order said there could be jexemptions to the hiring freeze: "in 
~ 
rare and unusual circumstances" for 
J
the delivery ofessential services. 
Government ofllclals -even 
.R.epubllcan government offtclals · 
tend to consider aJI their services es­
sential, aJI their circumstances rare 
and unusual 
That Is one of the reasons change 
comes slowly for even the most 
detennined ofadministrators. 
But Reagan vowed from the steps 
ofthe Capitol that change there will be. "We must act today in order to ·preserve tomorrow," he said "And let there be no misunderstanding ­
we are going to .act beginning 
today." 
He came close: to declaring the 
economic emergency some of his 
advisers had suggested during the 
transition, calling the situation a 
crisis, an "afllictlon of the greatest 
proportions." 
His cures are tax reduction, the 
easing of federal regulations, a 
government that spends within its 
means. 
"On these: principles," he said, 
"there will be no compromi8c." 
He wove in some campaign ap­
plause: lines. "Government Is not the 
solution; government Is the 
problem," he said. He said he wants 
to make government work, "stand 
by our side, not ride on our back." 
It was not an address of ringing 
newphrases, but a summation ofthe 
conservative Reagan creed. 
Reagan focused it on problems at 
home, the economy prime among 
them. His message to the world was 
one ofrestraint, from a president the 
campaigning Carter had said might 
risk war. 
He said he would ncaottate, sacrifice, but never surrender for peace. 
By DAVID RICKABAUGH 
StaffReporter 
Leo Marx, professor of American Cultural History at Massachusetts In· stitute of Technology and author of the book, The Machine In the Gar­den: Technology and the Pastoral Ideal in America, discussl:d "American Pastoralism Recon­sidered" last night. 
He defined pastoralism as "a state of existence between Industrializa­tion and nature." 
Marx's 1964 book influenced the 
interpretation of American culture in the areas of literature, painting 
and technology. 
Pastoral writings originated with Greek classical poetry and con­tinued for 2,000 years through the works of Virgil, Edmund Spencer, / Shakespeare, Milton, and many ot­hers. 
Since then, It died of exhaustion and a trend toward realism. Samuel Johnson acknowledged the end of the pastoral period. Incidental touches, however, oftraditional pas­
. toralism have appeared, but no 
major poet has tried to revive the 
style. 
Cowboys celebrate Show 
By TERRY RYAN 
Auoclllledhtlu Wrltflr 
DENVER -It's ranchers and cattle, the Old West and designer jeans, weekend cowboys, 4-H and Future Fanners, and big money. For 10 days eachJanuary-11 days this year to mark Its 75th anniversary ­the National Western Stock Show comes to Denver. 
For cattlemen It Is the Super Bow~ World's Fair and a national conven· tion rolled Into one. They come from 45 states and six foreign countries, and what they do here will affect the quality and price of beefon your table a yearor two from now. 
It may be possible to Uve in Den­ver and be unaware of the National Western, but a person would have to Ignore 100,000 visitors in· boots, trucks and horse trailers packing city streets, supennarket clerks in cowboy hats, TV weathennen In full 
See FOCUS, paae 6 
Marx said, "Man's quest for progress In the fields of science, technology and commercial progress has been restrained due to the realization of the dlstructive im­pact of progress on nature." The lecture emphasized pastoralism as a response to American industrializa­tion. 
According to Marx, Thomas Jef· fN1w.1 was the first American to warn of the evils connectect'Wftft"'2rr industrialized society. 
In literature writers such as Faulkner, Thoreau, Hemingway, and Melville, had their heroes develop from a state of complexity to a natural state which gave them a new identity. 
Humanists contend that Americans strive for an equilibrium, which compromises both Industrial progress and nature. 
Marx stated, "The position of middle ground between nature and the civilized world, exists only In theory. Also, interruptions with progress and the basic distructive tendencies of man can not be con­trolled." 
The M.I.T. professor believes man is on a course of assault with nature -simply to produce goods. 
The lecture concluded the series, "Evolutionary Images of Humanity," which was sponsored by a grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities. 

I 
I l 
I 
~ 
I. 
by Tbe ObJerver and The AJJociated Prm 
The Russies invading Cleveland? u.s. Rep. 
Mary Rose Oakar refused to shake hands with comedian Rich Little when she met him at the inaugural gala in Washington on Monday night. Ms. Oakar, a Democrat from Cleveland, said she was insulted by a joke In which Little, Imitating former President Nixon, asked "Do you know how to keep the Russians out of Poland? Change the name to Cleveland." "If you can't get some better material, you ought to pack it in," Ms. Oakar told Little, adding that his "joke" insulted people of Polish descent and "my city of Cleveland." Ms. Oakar got some backing today from Cleveland radio announcer Larry Morrow, who said he thought jokes about the Industrial Ohio city had ended. Other people were angry, too. On Tuesday, two Cleveland television sta· tions showed Little's address on the screen for people who wanted to write to the comedian themselves. -AP 
A seventh graderhas been awarded 18,500 in damages I 
1
after bein& ordered by a teacher to do 200 pushups as punishment for failing to complete an assignment. The damages were determined in an out-of-court settlement ofa suit tiled against the school district by Robert Lassiter ofOxford, father of Danny Lassiter, said Richard Zim­merman, Lassiter's attorney. Lassiter contended that social studies teacher Kurt Maas ordered Danny to do the pushups last April 13, and that Danny collapsed after 191, which' cause<;!: him severe pain and Injury, Zimmerman said Tuesday. -AP 
West Point Academywill be the site for the reunion of the 52 American hostages with their families. The hostages had been held captive for 444 days In Iran. Oftclais at the military academy had been able to confirm through the State Department that West 
• Point was one of several sites under consideration for the reunion between the former hostages and their families. The State Department declined comment on West Point as a possible reunion site. Depart­ment officials have said only that the former captives will be seques­tered with their families for a day or two after returning to the United States. After that, officials say, there will be an "open ceremony" at Andrews Air Force Base outside Washington, D.C., to publicly welcome them back. -AP 
A briefand emotional reunionoccurred be· 
tween former hostage Donald R Hohman and his German wife, Anna, in the office of the commander of the Wlesbaden Air Force hospital hospital, sources said yesterday. A state Department official confirmed the meeting took place Wednesday and said it was the first family reunion since the 52 Americans were freed by Iran on Tuesday. The 
u.s. government has sought to discourage the families of the former hostages from traveling to Germany, and the State Department official said this position is unchanged. Mrs. Hohman, however, lives in Wies­baden and works as a nurse at the hospital where the freed hostages are receiving medical examinations. Hohman, 39, of West Sacramento, Calif, is a medic who was transferred from Germany to the U.S. Embassy in Tehran in August 1979, three months before Iranian militants stormed the embassy and took the hostages. ~ AP 
Deafcustomers receiving special services from Califor­nia wll result in an estimated increase of 15 cents in the monthly bills ofall telephone customers, officials said. The Public Utilities Commis­sion ordered Wednesday that the telephone companies begin taking bids on the devices, which allow the deaf to communicate via keyboards, electronic screens that can flash messages and hard-copy printers. Estimates ofthe cost ofeach phone device range from S375 to as much as 1600, according to one bid already received by Paci.ftc Telephone Co. Preliminary estimates are that 90,000 customers will be provided with the devices by the end of 1983. -AP 
Singers suchas Kenny Rogers, WaylonJennings and Hank Williams may drive you to drink-or so says James H. Schaefer ofthe University of Minnesota. When the singers are doing their bit, the tempo of drinking with the slow beat of the country and western music seems to speed up, James H. Schaefer said yesterday. "The slower the beat, the faster the drinking," said Schaefer, who was in Raleigh for an alcoholism research conference. H~ said he and some_of his graduate students checked out scores ofbars 10 Montana and Mm­nesota to learn what factors constituted the highest risks for problem drinkers. He said the sipping rate was certain to increase when drinkers hear melancholy numbers such as Rogers' "Lucille" and Wil· Iiams' "I'm So Lonesome I Could Cry." In general, Schaefer said, the current country and western fad represents "a proliferation of a life­style that says it's OK to go out and get drunk every night." -AP 
Mostly sunnywith highs in the m_id to upper 3o~. Increasing cloudiness tonight. Lows around 30. Considerable cloud!· ness tomorrow. Highs in the upper 30s. -AP 
l'fetLJs~L;1~r~~~·e~~~S======~~===================F=n=~=y,=Jm=u=~==2=3,=1=9s=·==P=~=e~2 
January: Hard Titnes 

Happy January, dear reader, the month of muck and dredge and pestilence. As a thesis statement, this last may seem to you completely obvious -almost redun­dant Think ofJanuary, what is called to mind? New Years revelry? No-that is New YearsEve and that is December. The hanaover: that is January. 
And that is only the beginnlns-There seem to be two types ofJanuary irritants: those entirely personal and those shared by the collective body ofJanuary suJferers. My personal set began with my roomate being held at gunpoint whlle our off-campus house was robbed. It continued with our subsequent move, during which time we simultaneously caught the flu. 
The robbery and the move -well, that's personal. Everyone has their share of those. But the flu ex­emplltles one ofthose irritants shared by everyone, and it is just such a listing I shall now examine. Everyone who suffers J:.muary will please lean up out of their sickbed and take nodce. 
Slclmeu. There is much going around of what is known as "The Bangkok Flu." Bangkok Flu is a first cousin to The Hong Kong Flu, a brother-in-law of The Cambodian Throat and a stepson ofThe Laotian Ankle. All ofthese maladies share the same symptoms: "fevers, remain in that position until April (lending fresh 

relevance to T.S. Eliot's declaration: "April is the cruelest month..."). If the government concedes to a refund, the process is more painful than the product. In order to arrive at a conclusion on line 32, one must preface his calculations with 31 lines of mind-twisting directions on subtracting D from the sum of alb and c, less dependents. Multiply dependents by the amount subtracted, and c the Index on page 17. To finish, the tax-paying mathematician must have a head with a hole . greater than the sum ofthe aforementioned parts. 
Returning Gifts. The January returns are the most painful. After all, if it weren't painful, it would have been done a long time ago. 'lut in January there is something 
chills, throat discomfort, particularly unappealing body aches, coughs and stuf. about paisley shirts and fy noses." They all can be checked ties, and thus the cured the same way: "get 
returner has fresh motiva­rest, drink .fluid (particularly 
tion for finding the home of, vitamin C) and discontinue 
and the receipt for, the sharing oral instruments." 
returnee. On this adventure, Why they bother naming 
the returner returns to The them differently I'll never 
Mall, that hollowed know, but I would propose 
American institution which that the Anti-defamation 
in January seems to mirror 
League of Asian-Americans the tone ofthe entire month sue the AMA for a change in -reduced, grey and end· nomenclature. Until that 
less. Clerks' voices seem time we must all suffer the tired. When they ask "May I Indignities of a mysterious 
help you," one is tempted to virus inspired In another respond with the truth. hemisphere. 
Pro Football Ends. Sad, Weather. No matter but true. Two days and where one lives in three­counting. I must say that the 
quarters ofthe United States, omniscient and om­
that resident must enjoy the irrepreslble charms of the region's weather. Variety accounts for its engaging nature. For those who enjoy this dimension, South Bend provides us with a fine example of an imaginative climate. I have detected a pattern in the weather, and this I would like to share it with you. Most January days are of a type known as "wet/cold." This means overwhelming grey accompanied by dense fog and oc­casional precipitation, preferably light rain turning to freezing rain "later in the evening." A morning of this sort generally begins with the realization that four inches ofsnow fell overnight and all ofit plans to melt by nightfall, just in time to tum to ice. These days are further characterized by a bleak demeanor surpassed only by February's, when things get even worse. 
Tax Ttme. Tax forms arrive early in the month, and they sit within viewing range for the better part of the month, reminding the subj_ect of his appointment to communicate with the federal ~ovemment. Forms recapping painful deductions arrive shortly thereafter. If one owes money to the government, the forms nipresent forces that formulate football schedules cer­tainly know what they are doing. First we began the month by pigging out on New Years play, and followed that with a slightly less rigorous lineup ofplayoff games. Finally, after letting us down easy, they end it all with one last game intended to chase away theJanuary blahs. It doesn't. When one is shown sunny New Orleans, and all the "beautiful people" soaking in the night life, it is hard to be satisfied with a Hoosier January. The only thing worse than seeing New Orleans on TV in January is seeing Phyllis George in New Orleans on TV in January>~ortunately, this year's Super Bowl will be covered by NBC. I think I'll watch. • 
I'd like to just sit back and watch the rest of the month, but I can't stand horror shows and high drama. Give me light theater. Give me sun. Give me June. Meanwhile, I can't watch, I have to participate, so I've bought boots for the muck and cough syrup for the pes­tilence. I started the month with a hangover, and I'm planning to end it with chicken soup. Pass the kleenex, please. 
Design Editor .......................... Tim Sullivan Design Assistants ...................... Anne Fultz Tom O'Connor, Kevin Korowickl Layout Staff.................... Anne Marie Jehle Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor ............................. Pam Degnan Copy Editor ................. Mary Fran Callahan Features Ltzyout .................... MoUy Woulfe Sports Copy Editor.............. Chris Needles Typists .......................................... Mike Monk ND Day Editor ........... Ryan Ver Berkmoes  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tht Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing Tht Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved .  

~~~----------~ 
•·I!J»
t.t~.., ·15% Discount ~ to all N.D.-1S.M.C. 
t 
JEWELERS 
Students 
SINCE 1917
FOX'S 
' DIRECT DIAMo·No IMPORTERS 
University Park Mall and Town and Country­Mishawaka 

The Observer 
Friday,January 23,1981-page 3 

Comps continue at SMC 
By MARY AGNES CAREY math department chairman, said tempt a display. StaffReporter that a senior "becomes more inde­"This is the way the student muac pendent In her learning of mathe­perform. This situation shows that 
For Saint Mary's seniors, com­matics" because the comprehensive they're ready and they can record prehensive examinations covering is "real-life preparation." what they've done. This com­four years of an academic career are Art Department Chairman James prehensive is Intense and It squarely required for graduation. Paradis explained student's com­puts the responsibility on the stu­
Teresa Marcy, assistal"t to the prehensive in the area of studio or dent," Paradis said. vice-president of Academic Affairs, art history "the culmination of four Seniors, taking comprehensives at explained that senior com­years of study at Sllint Mary's Col­various times during the semester, prehensives are given "to test the lege." According to Paradis, the art both support and question the re­mastery of the student in her field." comprehensive can be any major quirement. Laura Madland, a busi­According to Mrs. Marcy, every undertaking. Most students display ness major concentrating In senior must participate in a com­their painting, sculpture, ceramics marketing and finance, completed prehensive whether it be a test, or weaving. her comprehensive last Sunday and project, oral presentation, or a com­Faculty members then evaluate was notified Wednesday that she bination ofthe three. the projects and decide if a student passed. "I think that the comp Is a 
She explained that although stu­passes, fails, or passes with honors. If dents "very seldom" fail a the student f.llis, she can again at-See COMPS, page 6 comprehensive, Individual depart­ments evaluate students who do fail and develop measures to help stu­dents pass their comprehensive re­
sunday masses at 
quirements. 
a
Saint Mary's English department 
campus sacred heart church
chairman Elizabeth Noel said the ex­
miniStry
aminations "encourage people to take an overall view of their major 
5 : 15 pm saturday Rev. Robert Griffin , c .s.c.
and see the ways the various parts are related to another and also to 
9:00am sunday Rev. James Shilts, c .s.c. 
test the critical factors they'veThis photo by john Macor, Photo Editor for The Observer Is In­
10: 30 am sunday Rev. Peter Rocca. c .s.c. 
developed as majors." The English
cluded in the 1980 Kotlak International Newspaper Snapshot 
department comprehensive, which 
12: 15 pm sunday Rev. John Fitzgerald, c .s.c.
Awards display at The Equitable Gallery in New York City, Feb. 3-27. 
consists of critical analyzatlon of a novel and questions concerning 
7 : 15 pm vespers Rev. Peter Rocca , c .s.c. 
literary genres and themes, allows students to "master the whole dis­cipline," Noel said. 
J
CILA celebrates 
Claude Renshaw, chairman of the 
J
business administration depart­
I 
ment, cited the comprehensive as a
second decade 
senior's badge of achlevment and j said it is "great equalizer" among 
~ 
seniors. According to Ms. Renshaw, 
j
the business comprehensive Is a By ANNEJANE DREGALLA man. standardized test, the Under­
j
StaffReporter This theme is exemplified in the graduate Record Exam which tests the principles ofall core courses. Ifa
title of Friday's panel, "Where Do ~ The Community for the Interna­Justice Advocates Go When the student fails the exam, she ex­
1
tional Lay Apostolate (CILA) is Mood of the Country is Going in plained, the student's Individual cir-celebrating two decades of service Reverse," and Saturday's discussion ' cumstances are examined. A student and edu(·ation in social justice in the entitled "Where will the Path of · may then audit or retake a class, or Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com­Justice Advocacy l.ead You?" foUow some other option to pass the munity this year. The group's spring retreat will comprehensive. 
CII.A wa.~ born in the early 1960s take place the weekend of Feb. 20, She added that the tests "set Saint -an era of excitement for social 21 and 22, and wiU be led by Fr. Mary's apart from other coUeges" reform.-as a service organization. Henri Nouwan. because administeiing com­These service projects now Include CILA's next general meeting will prehensives is a "prestigious thing to an extensive volunteer summer take place this Sunday at 7 p.m. In do." programs in Mexico, Appalachia, the Ubrary l.ounge. Sister Miriam Patrick Cooney, Peru, Colombia, Harlem and areas In Colorado. 
Some say FIGHTING IRISH is brewed
CII.A has also serviced the Corvil­
la House for the retarded and the 
under the Golden Dome-
THE ND STUDENT UNION AND 
Portage Manor for the elderly. 
Tht· early 1970s saw a decline in 
Don't believe It. Its brewed at the end 
NSHINE PROMOTIONS PROUDLY PRESENTS
social concerns In the United States and put CII.A Into a stage of transi­
of the rainbow by Leprechauns. 
tion. ClLA then became more In­volved In the educational facet of 
Now Available-at the end of your 
c::a
the community. This took the form ofprograms In human development, 
z:
favorite rainbow & other drinking
world justice and values. 
c:c: 
ca 
......
CILA ....... 
.......
ca:::: 
In 1974 Cll.A also hdped initiate 
....... 
the Urban Plunge Program, the ND­
~ 
SMC World Hunger Coalition, the Third World and Social Concerns 
....... 
Film Series and a student volunteer program at l.ogan Center. 
.......
The final years ofthe 1970s saw an even greater broadening of the 
== 
group, with the initiation of t-liturgies, reflection groups, social events and annual retreats and workshops. 
= 
z:
This year, Cll.A's ftfth annual workshop, "Justice in the '80s: cC Doubts and Directions," will take place Friday, Jan. 30, from 7:30 p.m. until 10 p.m. at the Hayes-Healy Auditorium and Saturday from from MONDAY, JANUARY 26th, 8:00 P.M. 
9:30 a.m. until noon In the l.lbrary 
NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC & CONVOCATION CENTER
l.ounge. The workshops will be 
ALL SEATS RESERVED $11.00 • $1 0.50 • $1 0.00
based on "the recognition of the Tickets on sale now at: A.C.C. Box Office; Robertson's, South Bend & Concord new conservative mood in the U.S. 
Mall; First Bank, Main Branch; St. Joe Bank, Main Branch; Elkhart Truth;and Its impact In justice concerns Suspended Chord, Elkhart; all three River City Outlets including Michigan City; both In policy and public conscious­Record land, Benton Harbor; JR's, laPorte; Butterfly, Warsaw; Carma and 
ness," according to a CILA spokes-Passtime in fort Wayne. 
• 

The Observer 
John needs help 
Layout positions Call 1715 
r-------------~--------------i,
SPRING ACTIVITIES NIGHT WEDNESDAY,JANUARY 28,1981 Iafortune student center 
7:00-9:00 p.m. 
l 
Clubs and Organizations sign up for a table
i 
l 
l (30" X 30") by calling Student Activities at 7308 or Milton Legrand of ALPHA PHI ~ 
OMEGA, a service organization, at 3266 by Tuesday, 4:30p.m. 
CLUBS----INCREASE YOUR MEMBERSHIP 
I 
~EW CLUBS--START YOURMEMBERSHI~ 
fsTUDENTS--FIND OUT ABOUT EXTRA ·~ IcuRRICULAR ACTIVITIES AND GET I I INVOLVED!!
¥-----------------------------.... I 
DORM LIFE CRAMPING ~ YOUR STYLE? 

I 
NOTRE DAME AVE. APTS 
2bedrooms completely furnished complete kitchen off-street parking up to 4 students 
$340-$360/month call234-6647 
Friday, january 23, 1981 -page 4 
In Indianapolis • 
Shooting results indeath 
INDIANAPOUS(AP)-A Marion County sheriff's deputy was shot and wounded and asuspect was shot and killed in an exchange ofgunfire in a residential neighborood on the city's far west side early yesterday, officers said. 
Lt. Russell Freeland, 39, suffered a gunshot wound to the upper right leg. 
Another deputy with Freeland, James Curry, 32, was not hurt. 
The incident occurred about 7:45 
a.m. after Freeland and Curry were dispatched to the 800 block ofSouth Auburn where a man was reported 
Police 
seek .,. 
rapist 
The St. Joseph County Sheriff's Department yesterday released a composite picture of the man believed responsible for armed assaults on two women behind the ACC last week. 
One woman was raped Friday afternoon and another asaulted while skiing Thursday afternoon in the woods behind the tennis courts. 
Police described the man as being black, in his late teens or early 20's, and of slender build with very dark eyes and frizzy, unkempt hair. The man was armed with a blue small-caliber revolver. 
Notre Dame Director of Security Glenn Terry said that the composite was based on a description of the man before he donned an orange ski mask as seen from a distance by the second victim. Terry asked that anyone who sees the man or has any information about the inci­dents call Security or Sargent Jer­ry Ratowski at the Sheriffs Office. 
MONDAY NIGHT 
LIVE BAND 
PINOCCHIO'S PIZZA PARLOR SPECIAL have a super bowl p __arty ­sunday, Jan 25 5:00pm _pitcher of beer $2. BUY ONE PIZZA GET 2nd ONE V2 price PRICE emmons WITH THIS COUPON GOOD 8 Jan 25th ONLY 
~------------------· 
I b .
1 uy one any s1ze I get 2nd V2 price
i 
slumped over the wheel ofa car. 
When they arrived, Freeland went to the driver's side of the car and Curry to the passenger's side. 
Officers said Freeland told the man to get out of the car, and the man came out shooting with a .45­caliber pistol. Freeland was hit in the leg and fell. 
The gunman apparently did not see Curry approaching from the other side. Curry shot, knocking the man down. 
When Curry went to aid him, he saw the gunman reach inside his coat. Curry fired again and hit the 
ll 
c F E 
man a second time. 
A second gun later was found inside the man's coat, officers said. 
Freeland was taken to Wishard hospital where he was reported in good condition. Curry apparently suffered a small cut on the right hand as he administered aid to Freeland. 
The area is about a block south of 
Washington  Street,  near  Was­ 
hington's  intersection  with  Inter­ 
state 465.  

Two of the county's deputies were shot and killed in a robbery incident at a shopping center on the east side oftown onJan. 2. 
N ~ 
1~ 
Campus 
Ministry sponsors lectures 
In conjunction with the Notre Dame Campus Ministry office the St. Joseph County Natural Family Plan­ning Program Inc. is offering two in­form~tive programs this semester. The first is a lecture, followed by a question and answer session, Mon­day, Jan. 26, at 7:30 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. The title is "An Introduction to Natural Family Plan­ning" and a qualified couple will ex­plain the basic concepts of Natural Family Planning. 
Fertility regulation is the heart of the program which is based on the scientifically developed and proven sympto-thermal method. The lecture is open to the public. 
The second program is a series of classes for engaged and married couples who are interested in learn­ing this method. A qualified local in­structor couple will teach this in-depth class on campus starting Tuesday Jan. 27. For further informa­tion and details call 288-2662. Registration is required for the class series, and there is a nominal fee for each couple. 




··--~--. 
The Observer Friday,january 23, 1981 -P9 5 


tinues on restoring St. Ed's for its opening next fall. (Pboo by Greg
Construction Despite the cold days and previous 16 Inches of snow, work con­
Domestic 
problems 
plague Poland 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) -Pollee 
reinforcements yesterday turned 
back columns of tractors driven by 
angy farmers demanding an inde­
pendent union as workers shut 
down hundreds of factories in at 
least a dozen cities across Poland to 
press demands for a five-day work 
week. 
The farmers tried to drive on the 
dty of Bydgoszcz, I50 miles 
northwest of Warsaw, but heavy 
police contingents blocked all 
roads, sources said. 
"There were no incidents," said a 
spokt·sman for Solidarity, the na­
Maurer.) 
ATIENTIONJUNIOR CLASS Seating for President's Dinner junior Parent's Weekend LaFortune Main Lounge Thurs., jan. 22, 7-10 p.m. 
Fri., jan. 23,6-9 p.m. For Seating Arrangements the Following In­formation Is Necessary: 
1 )Each person may bring 3 !D's total (including his own) 
2) Parents' full names and home addresses wlll be required for each student ID. 
3) Number of people attending per family. 
For those wishing to sit together involving more than one ' table, there must be one representative per table to make seating arrangements. 
We wlll not sign up anyone who does not have the above in­formation or who has not returned reservations for the Presi­dent's Dinner. 
Maximum Seating Per Table: 9 
interviews: Tues. S Wed Jan 27-28 at NO · S Tues. Jan 27 at SMC 
fri and sat JAN 23 &24 
7, 9, llpm 
tion's largest Independent labor uni­on, "But pollee warned protesting farmers they would face punishment if they forced thdr way into the city." 
The spokesman said the farmers, who have been pressing for their own Independent union for the past three months, were planning to stage a protest rally in downtown Bydgoszcz later In the day. 
Another group of about 200 far­mers held a rally in lnowroclaw, 35 miles south of Bydgoszcz. No inci­dents were reported. 
Similar rallies were reported in other agricultural centers. 
Meanwhile, workers shut down factories and transportation Hnks for up to four hours in a series of 
"warning  strikes"  ordered  by  
Solidarity  leaders after  a  six-hour  
meeting  with  Premier  Jozef  

Pinkowski failed to .~atlsfy workers' demands for a five-day work week and full access to the media. 
More than 800 plants were reported closed In the Baltic seaport of Gdansk, -flashpoint of last sum­mer's labor rebelllon. 
Union leaders In Warsaw said the city's bus and streetcar workers would stage their second four-hour walkout ofthe month today, and the work force at 30 to 40 plants In the area were expcctt~d to quit for several hours. 
Solidarity sour<:e~> said all mem­bers of the federation would be urged to stay away from work tomorrow, the ~~·ond such strike this month. A r.l"ion spokesman predicted at le~t h:llf of the federa­tion's 10 million rnembel~ would heed the call. 
--First Annual-­
OFF-CAMPUS FORMAL 
Century Center Great Hall January 31, 1981 9pm-1am---­
Price: $14.00/couple Band: Crystal 
at the following locations ... 
Campus View: Sherri McGonil(le 
54585/rish Way Apt.I03 277-8280 
St. Mar_y's Off-Campus Lounge llam-Ipm LaFortune Student Center Ilam-Jpm Notre Dame Apts. Carole McCollester Apt.4B 

OPEN BAR 9:30­10:30pm 

]anuary24, 1 :30pm 0 'l.iJughlin Auditorium Tickets available in S. U. Ticket Office 

The Observer 

JUDO-"THE GENTLE 
WAY" equals self-defense & sport & conditioning ,All beginners or ranked ND-SMC students and faculty welcome. Black belt instruction. 
sunday 2:00pm monday 6:OOpm starts SUNDAY JANUARY 25. 
2nd floor Rockne bldg. 
call Mark 3303 or John 8471 
~ncernentDoes 
Not Require An ~need Degree 
You can sp~nd another two to three years 1n graduate school or you can tum four years of liberal arts education into a practical, challenging and rewarding career in just three months-as an Employee Benefit Specialist. 
Benefits today amount from 30 to 35 percent of wages and salaries. Recent pension legislation has created even more demand for trained specialists. As an Employee Benefit Specialist you'll be called upon to excercise your own judgement. initiative and intelligence in a challenging, professional environment with progressive responsibility. 
The Institute for Employee Benefits Training is the first and most prestigious school in the United States, training Employee Benefits and Pension Specialists. This is a dynanflc, growing career field in which advancement does not require an advanced degree. Our graduates are in demand by law firms, pension consulting firms, insurance companies, banks, and personnel and benefits departments of corporations. The Institute's Placement Service will place you too. If not, you will be eligible for a substantial ~uition refund 
Furthermore, you will earn graduate credit towards a Master of Arts in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law for all course work completed at The Institute. 
If you're a senior of high academic sta1ding and looking for a meaningful career, contact your Placement Office for our catalog and arrange to have an interview with our repre­sentative. 
We w,ill visit your campus on: 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 1981 
The 
Institute 
235 South 17th Street for Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600
Employee 
Benefits 
Training 
(Operated by Para-Legal, InC.) 
Approved by The American Bar Association Pr<1Jrams Earn Full Credit Toward M.A. in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law. 
.o.c-ooae 
----------------------------~ 
Friday, January 23, 1981-page 6 
Garwood testifies 
(continuedfrom page 1) 
cowboy drag, and an occasional dis­tinctive aroma 
The show began Jan. 14, with the last shows and sales scheduled for tomorrow and the last rodeo perfor­mance for Sunday. Before the show ends, more than 330,000 people are expected to ante up the $2 to enter the 40-acre National Western grounds 3 miles north ofdowntown Denver. 
More than 80,000 ofthose visitors will come from out of state, pum­ping $32 million into the local economy. Another 20,000 will be residents of Colorado from outside the Denver area 
The first National Western was held in a circus tent in 1906. There had been cattlemen meetings earlier in Denver, but when the National livestock Association convened in 1897, the bash became a brawl It was nine years before anyone tried again. 
The National Western added a 
rodeo 50 years ago, and it is now one 
of the three biggest and richest on 
the pro rodeo circuit. The Stock 
Show (it's capitalized in Denver) in­
cludes horse showsnd sales, sheep 
shows and sales, hogs, chickens and 
even rabbits. In Its heart of hearts, 
however, the National Western is 
CAMP LEJEUNE, N.C. (AP) ­Marine Pfc. Robert Garwood claimed that fellow prisoners ofwar in Vietnam became angry and in­formed on him because he threatened to kill a Vietnamese in­terpreter, a Navy psychiatrist said today. 
Capt. Benjamin R Ogburn, testify­ing in Garwood's court-martial on charges of desertion and collabora­tion with the enemy, said Garwood told him that other POWs told er· roneous stories about his activity while in captivity because of the incident. 
Ogburn said Garwood told him of the alleged incident while a team of psychiatrists was examining the 34­year-old Indiana native to determine whether he was mentally fit to stand trial. 
He said he asked Garwood during the examination to comment on an 
...Focus 
cattle. 
George Schiichau, a breeder from Haven, Kan., stood at the back ofthe auction area this week as the bids ticked past $18,000 on a Hereford bull. "Denver is recognized by most all the cattle business as the best of the shows," said Schlichau. "This is the World Series." 
An hour earlier, half Interest in a Hereford breeding bull sold o r $301,000. Lean animals with more red meat and less fat are the major 

concern of cattlemen these days, said Schlichau, and they will pay to get them. 
"That is what the consumer wants -lessfat," Schiichau explained. "To get that you are looking for animals with long muscles and less back fat. The other thing you are looking for is something that will cnsume roughage and put it into weight." 
The Observer 
-do you know-
IS there a beer calle() "FIGHTING IRISH BEER"? is it availablein6-PACK-120Z CANS? ask your favorite retailer••• or leprechaun., ifvou know one 
accusation that he accepted a com­mission in the North Vietnamese Army. 
"He said it was not correct and that the reason such stories were given by other American prisoners in the camp Is that the were mad at him," Ogburn said. One reason for this, Garwood told the psychiatrist, was that he wanted to kill the camp interpreter but other POWs opposed the idea and Informed on him to the Vietnamese. 
There was earlier testimony that an interpreter known as Mr. Hoam was unpopular among POWs in the camp where Garwood wa confined. 
Garwood's story of captivity has come out in bits and pieces during his I 0-week trial because he has not taken the witness stand. The defense, which rested its case last 
See TRIAL, page 12 
. .Comps 
(continuedfrom page3) 
good  idea  because  it's  tangible  
evidence  of  your  accomplish­ 
ments," she said.  

Another business major,Julie Her­zog, believes the test should not be "a prerequisite for graduation be­cause you shouldn't have to be tested twice on iQ.formation you've already learned." 
Senior music major Mary Jean Dean said she was "intimidated be­cause such an emphasis is placed on the senior comp. I don't think it's tlir," she said, "to go through a 20­hour per semester program and regurgitate everything I've learned. Seniors have a lot more on their minds, such as resumes, jobs, and student teaching to worry about." 
Barb Biehl, a senior government major, must take the GRE and com­plete a 50-page paper to satisify her comprehensive requirements. "I think the government comp is a good comp because we can do research in an area we're interested in. It's the best way to test our major," she said. 
Charmion Chase, working on her comprehensive In sociology, researched her topic last semester and is now developing a thesis in­corporating her research. "I think it's a bit much," Chase said, "and I think one or the other would be enough. Doing both makes it hard to do the things you need to do to get a job." 
Julie Hertz Casper, who wants to teach art after graduation, will present her comprehensive in April. "For an artist, ifyou're serious about a career you will have openings similar to this. It's like an independ­ent study because you have to or­ganize your time. I think it's good to have the comprehensive senior year because it helps you to centralize your interests," she commented. 
VAN LINES IS BACK 
STARTS THIS WEEKEND Every Friday 6 -12 pm 
.50round trip
Saturday 4 -12 pm 
Departs Main Circle ON THE HOUR (pay as you board, no tickets) 
TOWN & COUNTRY­
UNIVERSITY PARK-FORUM-and more 






Friday, January 23, 1981-page.,..
Features 
A Catcher in the Rye 
W
orld at large, take a memorandum. Notre Dame, whom the self-reliant world will not give the time of list,.n to what I'm saying. My big news is: GRIFFIN day. I wasn't always a professional Christian. When Iwas IS AVAILABLE a student attending Notre Dame, I saw a priest playing 
"Available for what?" you well may ask. To take over with a crowd ofchildren. He was beautiful to watch, be­paper routes? To sort out laundry? To take maiden aunts cause he loved the children so much, and the children to the Bengal Bouts? were altogether lovely in the way they seemed in love 
I say, "Make me an offer. I'm available." with him. I thought: "I would like to be a priest playing 
Sitting down on thejob
"How come you're available?" you ask suspiciously. games with children." I graduated, and went to the People on campus are supposed to be very busy. novitiate, and got ordained to be the children's priest. I Everyone I know Is rushing offto do Important things; grew older, and the children grew up; but still, for me, or, having accomplished their world-shaking business, they always remained children. The only way I can ex­
L
ike many aspects ofSouth Bend, the movies never seem to change. This past week saw essentially the same line-up as the one beforeare rushing back to find out what other important plain it Is to say there are noonday suns in the summer 
things are waiting to he done..For me, being friends when everything in the world seems flecked with gold. 
break. In retaliation for such dreariness, this column will not dwell on with you Is the important thing I have to do. I have this There are certain noondays offaith when childhood is 
a movie, but instead review those local places vital to the movie­
viewing experience, the movie theatres themselves.
wonderful appointment at Notre Dame as the Univcr· everywhere, and life is praised as a journey between the Most oftbeToC'il-tlieatres-qualify as such because they do show
sity Chaplain. As the University Chaplain, I'm available yesterdays and tomorrows of the lost childhood. One, movies; and that's it. Here's a brief rundown;
as your personal friend. I have time I can spend with you being ordained, wants to keep close to the children, most any day or night. I have a shoulder you can cry on, though sooner or later, it means seeing the boys and and a couch you can lean back on. I'm available, and my girls ofsummer in their ruin. 
The Forum Cinema; 
time and attention and love are available, if you ever "Well," you say, "AVAILABLE means you're a regular 
A typical, modern theatre in every respect. This complex consists of have an Interest in them. I have a dog, Darby O'Gillll, catcher In the rye, doesn't it?" 
three screens, and is the closest to campus(located on U.S. 33, e~en­and he's available, and his love is available too, provided "Yes sir," I answer, "I guess all us professional Chris­
sion 31, Pixie Highway, etc.) near such hotspots as Arby's and GoldeR you give him pats. tians are catchers in the rye." 
Bear. "IfI were a catcher in the rye," you say, "I would 
The lobby is reasonably functional, however the concession coun­never admit it. How embarrassingit is to admit that you 
ter's selection is meager, the usual over-priced Ju-Ju beans (good for are public property, like the lawns and the lakes." 
pelting) and Raisenettes. One exits hungry enough to consume better
Rev. Robert Griffin 
edibles from the adjacent junkeries. young creature came to see me, and she was trembling 
"I AM embarrassed," I say. "But the otherday, a lovely 
The individual theatres range from tiny to moderate in size; seats, from nervousness like an undernourished bird. 'Ifyou 
decor, and cleanliness are strictlyaverage. Nothing terribly offending, have time,' she said, 'I would like to talk to you, ifyou 
but ifyou'e stuck seeinga clunker, there's little left to salvage the eve­aren't too busy. Ifyou are willing, I would love to talk 

ning unless you have an attractive date. Or ifyou're Into "the latest In elctronic video games," check out the annex. On the plus side, coming
with you."' Therefore I want to say it in a public way: I 
HAVE PLENTYOFTIME.IAM NOT TOO BUSY. lAM 
Letters To A Lonely God 
attractions are usually plentiful, and short cartoons on litter shown COMPLETELY AVAILABLE." 
before each feature are delightful.There are places that we have at Notre Dame that 
"Most people here," you say, "are very available." 
bdong to everyone: the lawns, the lakes, the sidewalks, "Yes," I say, "but for me, beingavailable is my stock in the Grotto. The people, being busy, sometimes tend to trade. Being available is what Ido instead ofteachingor be private. Some ofus, by the life we chose, want to find 
making executive decisions." the world on our doorstep every night. The world, 
"Love," you say, "is a relationship in which there suspicious ofpersons professing to be professional 
must be mutual consent." lovers, doesn't want to give us the time ofday. I don't 
"Without children consenting to care about me," I blame the world. You can't love somebody in a profes­say, "as I care about them, my ordination as a profes­sional way. Love, when you offer it, has to be tried on for sional Christian has no reality. As a catcher in the rye, I size; tooth brushes are not personal in the way that love would be guarding emptiness."
Is personal. In my offering to be your friend, I know it "Do you really care about everyone?" you ask. 
won't happen unless you want to be my friend, too. 
"I don't know," I say. "I've never met everyone. I know a When we meet, we will probably walk wide circles 
few folks I can't stand." around the other, testing and taking thought. 
"I would hate being available," you say, beginning to Ifwe arc lucky, we may laugh together. Ifwe like each feel sorry for me. 
other, we may come close enough to cry. I'm not urging 
"I don't hate it," I reply. "IfI did, there's other work I you to call on me so that I can listen to the things that could do." 
give you the blues; I've already got some troubles ofmy 
You move away, and I think my availability disgusts own. Ifever you wanted to, you could tell me your 
you. To tell the truth, because it disgusts you, it begins troubles, just as I might tell you, if you seem reliable, the 
to annoy me a little also. Maybe it was a mistake to be or­heartaches that get me down; but friendship doesn't 
dained a catcher in the rye. mean we'd be kept busy taking in the other's dirty 

The University Park Cinemas;
My eyes follow after you asyou walk in the brightnesslaundry. I sense that all ofus need a door we can knock The newest screens in the area are also the most atrocious. A few ofthe noonday. You are certainly not a child, I think; but on, a number we can call, just because we know a voice more theatres like these, and Paycable will be here to stay. Nestled inyou were a child once, and you will be a child again.
that we care about will answer, a hand that we consider the mall, the theatres' ambience are non-existent.
How can I tell you as a grownup that the sunlighta generous hand will be waiting to pick up the phone. 
One is greeted by a bleak lobby area, and would do well to patronizecrowds around your head, making it bright as though itl.et me tell you about professional Christians to the nearby establishments ofgook (i.e. Karmel-Korn, OrangeJulius,
were flecked with gold. Hot Sam, etc.). The theatres themselves are fine examples ofthe worst theatre decor yet forced upon the public, with walls ofcement block modern, early linoleum floors, and a screen that's a microcosm ofany other you've seen. Adding insult to injury, the aisle looms down the middle ofthe theatre, reminiscient ofa 747. Thus It's impossible to sit in front ofthe screen; one must sit on one side or the other, on a seat which can trace it's ancestry to the back ofa Toyota

ND students counsel & care 
The Town and Country Theatres; 
Had this column been written last year, laurels would have been T ast summer, Notre Dame senior Mike Mlynski These students were the first participants In the Sum­
heaped on the Town and Country Theatres. One theatre in particular Lworked In the Catholic Charities-sponsored Angel mer Service Projects initiated last summer by the Cen­
boasted a huge screen, large, comfortable seats, and a pleasing pastel­Guardian Child and Family Center. Located on ter for Experiential Learning in collaboration with the 
blue decor. Ofcourse it was too nice to last; right before Christmas, Chicago's North Side, the Center serves 20 boys be­Notre Dame Alumni Clubs. The goals ofthese projects 
workers bisected the middle ofthe theatre with that staple oftheatre tween the ages of 13 and 16 -who suffer from a variety are: to enable students to serve needs in the city ofan 
construcion cement blocks. The result is three theatres no better than ofsocial problems. These boys come from all parts of Alumni Club; to provide opportunity for student­
others In the area the city and spend five days a week In residential care, alumni discussion ofsocial concerns; and to contribute 
•
The Riverpark;
served by social workers, child care workers, and coun­to continuing value education ofthe students, alumn~ 
An old theatre located far from campus. It's traditional in all In the Hough section ofCleveland, senior Terry Pfaff 
selors. and the Notre Dame community. 
respects, although it's edges are slightly moth-eaten. Traces ofart
This year, the number ofAlumniClubs which plan to worked at Our Lady ofFatima Mission Centerwhere the participate In this program has more than doubled. 
nouveau are in evidence, making this facility worth the trip just to see it. Don'tlook for majorfeatures here, as they're normally booked intoprimary focus ofhis work was youths, although he also Each ofthese clubs has Indicated a willingness to estab­the larger locations.
participated in projects ofthe Greater Cleveland Food lish a Social Concerns Scholarship of S 1,000 or less to Bank and the Hough Family Care Center. help with the participating student's room, board, and 
Scottsdale;
The Oakland County Welfare Rights Organization tuition during the 1981-82 academic year. In return, Not bad for a mall location; doesn't reek offrugality, but strictly
was the setting for Terry Keeley's Summer Service the student sponsored by the Club will work on a volun­average in all r(:spects. 
Project. Keeley's work included counseling welfare teer basis in an eight-week summer placement with an recipients with problems, assisting them with forms agency or project serving the needs ofthe urban poor, 
and appeals, and attending Congressional Hearings, and will also live in the city. 
The Cinema Art Theatre; 
Located in Mishawaka, this theatre caters to a certain "cult"mc:etlngs ofthe Welfare Reform Coalition and the Contact will be maintained between the student and audience. The fare is strictly pornographic where the saying "You've Mayoral Task Force in Pontiac, Michigan. the Alumni Club during the project time. The student seen one, you've seen 'em all," really applies. Ofspecial interest are
In Indianapolis, Kevin Walsh lived in the Holy Angels will also have the opportunity to communicate with the Parish Rectory and did parish work, including visiting 
the coming attractions. The theatre's layout is huge, allowing patrons
Alumni Club repr.:sentatives through an oral presenta­the sick and shut-Ins, working the food pantry, and tion and a written report. 
to protect their identities. organizing and working on the parish summer festival. Applications for the Summer Service Projects 1981 Outside the parish, Walsh learned about multi-service 
The Engineering Audttorlum;
are now available from Sr. Carolyn Burgholzer in the 
The old standby. Although the seats lack padding, and the conces­centers and visited the Men's Reformatory. Center for Experiential Learning ( 1110 Memorial sion stand is non-existent, the thrill ofwatching a bunch ofrowdy
Phil Gutierrez worked with the Los Angeles Catholic Library)orfrom Mary Ann Roemer( 1.5 LaFortune). Ap­Worker community, preparingand serving meals to the plication deadline is February 13. 
Domersand SMC's is unequalled anywhere, and for just a buck, an un­. bearable bargain .. 

I 
Friday, january 23, 1981 -page 8
Editorials 
Where have all the presidents gone? 
Michael Onufrak 
By any political standard, the presidency is a tough act to fol­low. Not only the old cliches of powe~ and responsibility, but the special euphoria which surrounds ! the office makes it a pinnacle which most men have been loathe to leave. It must be especially dif­ficult then for someone like Jim­my Carter who is still of a relatively young age, to step down, enormous government pension in hand, and return to Plains. 
Perhaps the best historical parallel to compare Carter with is the phenomenon of Harry Truman. Like Carter, Truman sprang from small-town roots. Upon leaving office Truman was content to return to these roots and assume the posture of elder, retired statesman. He always considered his return to private life a promotion and even an honor. But though he never sought office or actively cam­paigned again, Truman was a con­sistent practicioner of .. politics for politics sake" into the sixties. Truman dictated Adlai Stevenson as his successor as the Democratic nominee, and even continued to pester John Ken­nedy and his liberal backers when they assumed the party mantle in 1960. Only when he was past eighty, a symbol of straight­forward, "buck-stopping" politics, and a personal favorite of then-president Gerald Ford, did Truman lapse into elder­statesmanhood. 
Richard Nixon, in a sense, represents the other side of the coin. Like Carter, Nixon did not leave office of his own free will. Carter desperately wanted a second term, and Nixon desperately wanted to finish a second term. At present, Nixon leads a reclusive life in New York City. Instead of jetting about the globe to meet with world leaders, the farthest Nixon ventures from his condominium is to the Philadelpia suburbs to visit daughter Julie and the grandchildren. With the excep­tion of his foray to China, Nixon, formerly the author of one of the most public of lives, has dropped from public sight. 
The problem of what to do after the presidency is most pressing for a younger man. Teddy Roosevelt was this nation's youn­gest chief executive at age 42. He served his two terms amid popular acclaim and achieve­ment. He retired eight years later vowing to travel and continue his boisterous lifestyle outside the political arena. But Roosevelt was a restless man, and when he tired of safaris, the allure of the presidency beckoned and he could not resist another go at it. His third party presidential bid in 1912 was largely stifled by an as­sassin's bullet. Though it did not kill him, it did help to retire him. Our youngest president to be elected on his own (remember TR finished William McKinley's term and was not elected on his own until he was 46), John Ken­nedy, tragically never was able to deal with the dilemma of presidential retirement. Before his death friends said that he Democratic party. 
planned either to  start  his  own  
Washington  newspaper  or  
become  chairman  of  the  


But what about Carter? Will he live the hermit's life (Nixon), make a comeback (Roosevelt), become a power broker (Truman), or begin a new venture (as Kennedy intended)? Whic­hever option he chooses it will 1 probably not be the best for the 
Carter will not go back to .fust peanut farming. 
country. Because of the prejudice Americans have always harbored against the elderly, presidents are expected to retire. No matter that they may not even be elderly, the 
public mind demands retirement from a man whose career they deem complete. This emanates not only from our prejudice against anyone who isn't young, but also from the sacredness of the office itself. After all, once you have been president, what else is there? A lot actually, but not for former chief executives. It is up to them not to sully the office. They are to write their memoirs, attend ceremonial func­tions, and refrain from participat­ing in the public life. Gerald Ford is the best example of this kind of ex-president and he reinforces this image with each golf tourna­ment he plays in. 
Carter has the opportunity to rectify this situation, not only be­cause he is still relatively young, but also because he could still do this country some good. He has made a good start by agreeing to go to greet the hostages in West Germany. Though this was a political move to reward Carter for his handling of the hostage 
situation, Carter's strong words after he met them signal that he is not going to go back strictly to peanut farming and memoir writing. If Carter does follow through and make a serious com­mitment towards public life he will write a good argument for bestowing permanent official duties for ex-presidents. Perhaps this caNcity should be an ad hoc Congressional seat, perhaps an ambassadorship, or even a cabinet-level appointment in the new administration. One can argue that this system might hin­der progress or interfere with a new administration's goals. But the counsel of a man who has "been there before" is valuable no matter what the endeavor. An ex-president would be particular­ly beneficial in foreign affairs where lack of continuity is one of our biggest disadvantages. Had Carter been able to rely upon Nixon or Ford to aid him in his dealings with the Russians per­haps they would have judged us more tendentiously and never have risked their adventurism in 
Afghanistan.
Doonesbury by Garry Trudeau 
John Quincy Adams servecl his country for many years in Congress after he stepped down from the White House. He also served as an ambassador and was publicly active into his eighties. In this age of partisan politics, government figures might be wise to follow Adams's example and utilize the resources of the country -even if they be from · the opposite party -in the time to come. 
Michael Onufrak is editorials 
editor of The Observer. His 
column appears each Friday. 

Sports Editor...........................................Beth Huffman
Edltor-ln-Cblef......................................Paul MullaneyBox Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Features Edltor.......................................MoUy Woulfe
ManagingEditor..........................................Mark Rust 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of t~e Pboto Editor ...............................................john Macor
Editorials Edltor..............................Michael Onufrak
University of Notre Dame du ~.c and_ Saint ~ary'~ C<?lle~e. It does not ~ecessanly 
SenlorCopyEdltor.....................Mary Fran Callahan 
reflect the policies of the admtmstrauon of etther m~utuuon. The news 1~ r.eported 
Executive News Editor.........................Tom jackman Business Manager ..................................Greg Hedges as accurately and as objectively as possible: Edito.n~ls represent the opmton .of a 
News Editor...............................................Pam Degnan Controller........................................................jim Rudd majority of the Editorial Board. _Com~emanes, opmtons, and letters are th.e v1ews 
News Editor.....................................•.........Lynne Daley AdvertisingManager...................................Mark Ellis of their authors. Column space ts avatlable to all members of the c~mmunny, and 
SMC Executive Edltor..........................Margle Brassil 1 Circulation Manager............................ Beth Hackett 
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, 1s encouraged. 
SMC News Editor......................................Mary Leavitt I Production Manager...........................john McGrath 

-~--------------------------------~-----~-----------------------­
Observer Friday,January 23, 1981 -~»se 9 
Is anybody out there ? 

many cases I think it enhances a
The worst and most recurring thousand papers scattered 
grudge against Ronald, and espe­columnist would ever expect all
column to have a picture of the

nightmare of any writer, disc throughout the dining hall. 
cially Nancy, Reagan. 
the matter
jockey, or'"TV person" must be Writers (for want of a more ap­writer, because it can get the readers, or for that 
want them to, agree with or like
reader more acquainted with him. 
that nagging image of books lying propriate term) are not supposed 
That is why, as I said before, everything he says. I, for one,
unbought, a radio blaring into an to speak like this, most certainly empty room, or a department newspaper writers who are ex­I'm writing this. In many respects know I have certain opinions that 
I guess that's what this column 
it is the hardest column I have are far out of the mainstream. I
television pected accept as
store window that to transience is about, getting acquainted with 
flashes all day while hundreds part of the trade. Once you're ever tried to write. It is much have others that might qualify me 
the reader. I often ask myself 
easier to pick some arbitrary topic for membership in the local
cruise by, the idea of people un­done with something, according 
what, or why, or who I do it for, 
and either praise or criticize it. Chamber of Commerce. I'm your
concerned with whatever mys­to legend, it doesn't belong to you 
and 1 usually give myself one of 
When I began thinking of doing basic Conservative Liberal
teries his work may contain. anymore and your relationship 
several answers: I do it for 
this article, I was going to call it "I Democrat, with Republican ten­
Perhaps this feeling is most acute with that piece is ended. So you 
myself, because it makes me a 
Write the Columns That Make the dencies. I consider myself a con­
for a writer, as there is something get used to it, but you never really 
better writer, I do it because I 
Whole World Dream," but then I servative Christian, though I also 
permanent about the act of know if anyone is actually reading 
love to argue, I do it because I'm • 
realized that the title was decided­think Jesus had certain socialist
Writing something, whether it be what you so preciously wrote. 
crazy, I do it for Walter Lip­
ly unfunny, and everybody would leanings. I respect the right of 
an inept poem, a factual news You don't know if they are laugh­
pmann, who said something to the 
think I was serious. Then I men to protect themselves and
report, or a masterpiece novel. A ing with or at, you don't even 1 effect that "Wherever they think 
thought I would call it "Why I their families, but it is high time
piece of writing is something that know if they're laughing. Then ·alike, they don't think much," 
Write Columns," but then I saw for some kind ofgun control. I of­
can be held and looked at, it is not again, there are those times when and I like to pretend that in some 
in my mind's eye a certain ten want to nuke Iran but I know
just an organization of light dots you do find out, and there are few way I may "stimulate dis­
habitually rowdy crew from Dil­that it wouldn't be right, and I 
or sound waves. So a writer will things so sobering as overhearing 
course." Most of all I do it for the 
lon rising mid-lunch and yelling in wouldn't want to be asked to do
always secretly wonder whether yourself called a lying idiot by "fat lady," Franny Glass's imagi­
it.
chorus "Who cares?" or some­
anyone is actually reading his some guy three seats down in the 
nary woman who enjoyed every­
thing like that. I'm using this title 
work, whether anyone cares. I dining hall. That is one of the thing she did, and for me those These are the kind of things my 
even though I am aware that this 
reasons why I choose not to have columns come out of.
know I have a special cringe people who appreciate something 
same imaginary group could yell
reserved for those times I see my picture "upon the masthead" I write whether it comes to my at­
"No!" or ap­
piles of Observers lying unread or of this column. Any picture im­tention or not, and this also ex­perhaps more 
Where my columns go is your
propriately no one would yell
trampled upon in the dining hall. prints certain ideas upon the mind 
tends to those who call me a business. They don't come back
anything. I'm just hoping that the
And though there is nothing that as a reaction, and I don't want a pompous lying obfuscator. But graded and corrected like exams,
person who reads this will some­
can, or should, be done about it, it person consciously or uncon­whether you like or dislike what I the only judge I have are the
how find himself better
sometimes bothers me to see two sciously prejudiced by a poorly say, if you read it, _you're my "fat readers. In other words, this is a
"prepared" the next time I inflict 
developed picture, or to think a 
lady" and it's directed to you. two-way street and your par­
my opinion upon him. 
will story will be funny because I am
Anthony Walton appear Toward the end of the last semes­ticipation is as much a require­
regularly on the editorials page smiling in the picture, or to think 
ter, it occurred to me that while I And perhaps that's what it ment for the course as is mine. each Wednesday. Barring I'm a hard guy or a pedant be­did impose my two cents upon the comes down to, opinion. I give That's why I ask if anyone is out 
editorial board disapproval his cause I have a serious look on my 
community once a week, I was. mine once a week on this page, on there. Judging from the volume of 
new column will be entitled face. I'll get a lot of argument on more than name that whatever topic is burning a hole in 
little a mail we get at the Observer I won­
Outside Wednesday. this from other writers, and in 
seemed to have a paranoiac my mind at the moment. No der sometimes. 
Watt spelis troublefor energy-rich west Betsie Boland 
Ronald Reagan is now firmly ing law in Denver, for Interior believes that the pervasive smog on natural gas rates for the hand­development along the Colorado ensconsed in the White House, Secretary is being sharply con­in Denver is an economic icapped and the elderly. This is 
River and cattle grazing on 
bringing with him what most hope tested by environmentalists con­development not worthy of cor­not protection of the private en­already-depleted lands. To con­wll be some soltions to the rection through government in­terprise system, or even a reduc­
cerned about his attitude toward cerned observers, the outlook is naton's problems. Unfortunately, terference since he is helping to ton of citizen dependence on the
public land use. Watt's position is for the oil and mining companies 
one of the men selected by block the first step to a solution­government-it is exploitation of
that the private enterprise system to be given a free reign to find­Reagan to help him implement his should prevail over government an auto inspection plan. disadvantaged individuals and-expliot what they find on for­prodigious task, a man Reagan trapped in an intolerable and ines­
interference and, ostensibly, merly preserved lands. 
capable situation. 
claims is "an environmentalist lands in the energy-rich west are himself, as I think I am", is a man there for everyone and anyone's The Denver lawyer's sym­Watt is also vehemently against One of the most alarming facts who would consume all public pathies for those not fully federal control of public lands, in about Watt is that, despite his
consumption.
wilderness lands without regard equipped to succeed in his idealis­particular, western lands rich in Western upbringing and to permanent consequences. As quoted in Newsweek tic private enterprise system are potential energy sources. His residency, he has little, if any, January 5, Watt claims that "his also seriously deficient. Watt contention that federal lands will ·regard for maintaining even a
Reagan's selection of James?· 
quarrel is only with environmen­heads the Denver Mountain be developed with "love and del­token level offederally protected
Watt, a Wyoming native practtc­
tal extremists," whom he defines States Legal Foundation wich icate concern" is hard for most areas. Betsie Boland is a senior as "those who would deny blocked the Colorado Public westerners to believe in light of Watt claims that 
accounting major from Denver, economic development on public Utilities Commission from his support of programs which environmentalists would "deny Colorado. lands." Apparently, Watt implementing a required discount scream of exploitation-the balanced management of resources for the benefit of con­sumers and for all of America," but the ravishment of the west will not restore the urban jungles of this country to a state of en­vironmental balance, nor will it provide the U.S. with unlimited 
sources of energy. 
The imminent appointment does not bode well for those who would preserve the wilderness areas of Colorado and other wes­tern states since Watt intends to bring about some "dramatic changes" in policy, and, as his past performance indicates, the direction of the change will be toward opening up federal lands to private use. The most frighten­ing thought is that all considera­tion for environmental balance wll be overwhelmed by "progress"-oriented politicos who have, for all intents and purpose~. lost touch with the ramifications of their office-made policies. We can only hope that in his new found positon of manag­ing Interior affairs, Watt does not deal as ruthlessly with Western lands as he has his personal con­
. cerns. 


--~­
~~======================~=============== 
~c:}cJlC3L~===========================n=W=a=y,=Jm==u=ruy==2=3=,1=9=8=1==p=a=g=e=l=O 
I 
I 
r 
I 
Campus 
Friday,Jan. 23 
•4:00 
p.m. -swimming. n.d vs wayne state, rockne pool. 

•4:30 
p.m. -math dept. collo­quium, "automorphlsms of det. (xij) prof william waterhouse, ohio st. u. 226 ccmb. 

•5:00 
p.m. -meeting. football coach gerry faust will address freshmen males interested i joining the nd student managers organization, ace auditorium. 

•5:I5 
p.m. -mass and supper, bulla shed. 

•6:45 
p.m. -ella, general meeting. library lounge. 

•7:00 
p.m. -theatre: eugene o'nell's "hughie." main lobby, washington hall. nd/smc theatre department. friday, saturday, and sunday. free. 

•7,9,II 
p.m. -movie, "oh god", k ofc hall, adm. S 1, mem­bers free. 

•7,9,11 
p.m. -movie, "harold and maude", engr. aud., Sl. 

•9 
p.m. -nazz, mike daley, sam dismond, tom komick, grand cleveland, greg dalles­sandra and more. 

Saturday,Jan. 24 

•test, 
gmat engr. aud. 

•I 
p.m.-rum, "mazzll", mem. library aud. and lounge. 

•I 
p.m. -swimming. nd vs Il­linois state, rockne pool. 

•7 
p.m. -rum, "eight hundred heroes", mem. lib. aud and lounge. 

•7,9,11 
p.m. -movie,-"oh god", k ofc hall, adm. SI, mem­bers free. 

•7:30 
p.m. -one-man show, vincent price as oscar wllde in "diversions and delights," : o'laughlin aud. tickets S2.50 ' students, S6 general admission. 

•7:30 
p.m. -hockey, nd vs denver, ace. 

•9 
p.m. -nazz, greg butler. 

•II 
p.m -nazz, pat bymes. 

•I2 
p.m. -nazz, mark davis. 

Sunday,Jan. 25 

•I 
p.m. -auditions, "equus", washington hall, all are welcome. 

•2-4 
p.m. -opening recep­tion, for franklin mcmahon and rembrandt etchings exhibi­tion,the snite museum ofart. 

•2:30 
p.m. audoubon wildlife rum, carroll, hall smc., admission charged. 

•7 
p.m. -auditions, "equus", little theatre, smc, all are welcome. 



Molarity 

Peanuts 



The Daily Crossword 

"The next day, john was at the river again with twoQfhis disciples. AB he watched jesus walk by, he said, 'Look, There Is tbe Lamb ofGod!' The two disciples heard what be said, and followed jesus. When jesus turned around and noticed them following him, he asked them, 'What are you looking for?' They said to him, 'Rabbi, where do you stay?' 
"COME AND SEE," be answered. So they went to see where he was lodged, and stayed with him that day." 
GENTLEMEN: 
THE FRANCISCAN FRIARS 
INVITE YOU TO "COME AND SEE", 
VOCATION RETREAT 
JAN30-FEB1 FRANCISCAN RETREAT CENTER 
Mount s.lnt Francis, Indiana j 
for your reservation or for funher Information contact Friar Richard or Friar William. 
SC. Anthony No.ttlatc  I  
1316 w. nn,ooTnll MJabawata. IN 46'44 I  Traosportatioo will be provided for ND students  
(219) 2"·2442  

Michael Molinelli 

Charles Schulz 
IT'S ~lARD FOI< ACRITICAL PERSON TO 60 TO SLEEP IF 5~E ISN'T ALLOWED A BRIEF WORD OF CRITICISM 

ACROSS  28 R.E. Lee's  46 Elevator  13 Draft  
1 Fawn's  cause  cage  initials  
lather  31 Stand by  .,.  47 "My -"  18 Land of  
5 Animal  32 Flying org.  (1912 song)  blarney  
food  33 Emphatic  54 NY restau­ 21  Infer  
9 Certain  type  rateur  24 Financier  
paintings  35 Whittier's  55 Lamp fuels  Cyrus  
14 Australian  saddest  56 Assad's  25 Delineates  
parrot  words  domain  26 Grappler's  
15 USSR range  38 Cloak for  57 Historical  surface  
16 News pieces  Juanita  periods  27 Detest  
17 Relation of  39 Pindar  58 Part of a  28 Limpid  
similar  product  chord  29 Strategy  
compounds  40 Wise  59 City on  at Troy  
19 Lathers  41 USN off.  the Ruhr  30 Skin worry  
20 Blue  42 Player  60 Editor's  31 Dry  
22 Exist  undera  mark  32 "The-"  
23 Hamilton  dome  61 Growl  (Potok  
bills  44 Tedious  book)  
24 Otherwise  type  DOWN  34 Like a  
26 New Zealand  45 Classifica­ 1 Coasted  good book  
native  tion by 13D  over ice  36 Man from  
2 " ...owed by  Accra  
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved:  so many  37 Bustle  


-few" 43 -on 3 Queued up (appended) 4 Like Coman-44 Howls 
eci's exer-45 47A, e.g. clses 46 Seal 5 River in 47 The Say 
France Hey Kid 6 Came down 48 Goofs 7 Cummerbund 49 Present 8 "There is 50 Exam 
a -live ... " 51 In a trice 
9 Separate 52 It precedes 10 Mites gamma 11 Go for a 53 River In 
rebound Belgium 12 Urchins 54 Comp. dir. 


Sports Feature-Swimming Fritlay,January 23. 1981 -page 11 
-. 

SMC swimmers make splash in Division III 
ByDONNA WITZLEBEN swim in except the one at Regina. lt SJIOf'U Wrltf!r we had ourown facility to train in on a ~gular basis we would do much 
Saint Mary's Division IU varsity better." 
swim team has been swimming for The pool at Regina is a two-laned, quite some time now, as they have 16-meter sized one, as opposed to already compiled a 4-6 record "Our 
the: standard size offour or six lanes record Is really good considering 
and 20 or 25 meters in length ourcompetition. We lost to Division 
Carey also concurred that, "Many I schools like Purdue and Eastern U­1 
girls quit because of the academic linols," said Coach Steve Smith. pressures and the poor facilities. But the Saint Mary's swimmersare 
"1bc: athletic department has not done by a long shot. "We wiU be: 
bought us a lot of new equipment. swimmingagainst some tough teams 
New suits and new warm-up suits like Lake Forest, Depauw and then and equipment to use in the pool we have a double-duo meet with In­have been purchased for the swim 
_.... _ -diana and Ball State," added Smith team." Helping out wiU be returning let­Along with the encouraging termen Kearin Carey, Lucy Hanahan 
season this year, the Saint Mary's and Cathy Murray. Carey, the f_unior team has something else: to take: 
captain of the team, swims the pride in. "Right now we have three brealcstroke, freestyle and individual 
potential qualifiers for Division III medley. Hanahan from Bitmlngbam, 
nationals," said Smith. "At divers, we Mich., adds strength in the butterfty 
have sophomore Grace Romzick
"Unbelieveably dedicated" and freestyle catagories. Murray and junior Usa Maronick. Swim­contributes in the breastroke and in­ming, we have freshman Chris dividual medley events. 
Lenyo. Chris has already broken "The team's strengths," according three of four school records and it to Smith, "come from the fact that seems like every time she swims she 
Irish w-omen off the blocks 
match against St. Mary's is slated for 
By SKIP DE&JARDIN thus far this season. the girls on the team have a lot of sets a new one." Sports Writer "Karen Bobear, Nancy Jones, and Tuesday night, Feb. 17th at the Rock. competitive swimming background. 
Smith, a teacher at South Bend'sKaren Langhans arc terrific. Having The 1980-1981 season, which is the We are successful due to our swim­Adams High School, added, "The 
"This team Is unbcllcvcably ded­longest ever for the women, will mers' and divers' previous ex­
them on the team has really meant girls are very supportive of each 
Icated. They work as hard as any ath­then close on the road at Alma Col­
an improvement for us," he says. perience. other and right now we are con­
letes on this campus." lege on Saturday, Feb. 21st. 
"Our main weakness comes from centrating on enjoying what we areThat Is high praise when one con­
Rody McLaughlin, a Notre Dame "These girls-are extremely ded­the lack of practice time and doing rather than being fierce com­siders that the Notre Dame women
senior, Is the unofficial coach of the icated, and they are fine schedule conflicts between classes petitors. The program here wiUfinished sixteenth out of one
Irish women's swim team. He Is ex­representatives of the University," and limited facility use." never be: serious until Saint Mary'stremely proud of the girls that he hundred and five teams in last vear's says Stark. "It won't be long before Smith also added that he was has its own facilities. We like: to win, 
works with. Division III national meet. they become a varsity team. They "fairly happy under the cir­but ifwe get beat we don't sit around "They only get one hour of pool The women are rapidly approach­certainly deserve it." cumstances. There is no pool to 
and cry about it." time a day. Once In a while they get ing their two toughest weekends of the opportunity to work out with the year. Tomorrow they entertain the varsity, but for the most part, this Division II powerhouse Illinois State Is it for them." at the Rockne pool. Next week they The team is unique among those 
travel east with the varsity for con­
Irish train in ~~sunny,, Florida 
at Notre Dame. They are not a club 
secutive night meets on Thursday sport, and yet they aren't a varsity and Friday. sport, either. Dennis Stark, the coach 
Thursday night they take on on~ By MICHAEL ORTMAN· "I was really pleased with the combined to set a school mark in theof the varsity swimmers, explains 
of Canada's top swim teams, Wes­Associate Sports Edttor workouts in Florida," says Stark. "It first event of the evening, the 400­the situation. 
restructuring tern Ontario. Then on Friday they Fresh off a chilly was pretty cold, but we still got in yard medley relay in 3:40.3, eclips­
"During the of 
swim against St. Bonaventure. workout/vacation in not-so-warm workouts on every day except the ing the old standard by three-tenthswomen's sports at the university last 
but still sunny Florida, the Notre last. I decided 34 degrees was a little ofa second.
year, this team sort ofgot lost in the "Those meets really show us how Dame swimmers are ready to jump too much." Today's Irish-Tartars matchup
shuffic. I recommended to the Ath­much progress we have made as a into their first busy weekend of the Stark had to be pleased with his will pit a veteran coach against oneletic Board that the girls' dedication team," McLaughlin says. "We looked 
1980-81 season with two dual meets team's pre-Christmas break perfor­of his former swimmers. Wayne strong against St. Mary's and Val­in as many days. Dennis Stark's Irish mance as well, as his team won its State coach Steve Sauer is a 1960 and competitiveness warranted the 
team's elevation to varsity status. My 
paraiso. I think we had our best meet will shoot to improve on their 1-0 lone dual meet, holding off visiting Notre Dame graduate and swam onrecommendation wasn't denied, but of the year against Western Western Michigan, 62-51. The Irish Stark's first varsity team in 1958-59
It wasn't accepted either. I still think record when they play host to rival that the girls deserve to be a varsity 
Michigan. We beat them 72-68, and Wayne State this afternoon at 4 p.m. led from the outset as Pat LaPlatncy (5-5) and again the following year they are astrong Division II school." The Irish tankers will be back in the (St. Petersburg, Fla.), John Wil­( 7-3 ). Against his former coach,
team, and I'll make the same recom­mendation this year." Two February meets will close Rockne Memorial Pool tomorrow af­liamowski (Mishawaka, Ind. ), Don Sauer has won two of four. Stark Casey (Holmdel, N.J.) and john owns a 15-3 lifetime mark versus the
out the season for the Irish, making a ternoon when Illinois State visits for 
a I p.m. dual meet. Komora (South Bend, Ind.) Tartars.
total of nine for the season. Areturn
McLaughlin thinks an elevation to 
more: pool time. That's the most im­portant factor In swim training." "The Athletic Department helps 
VOCATION RETREAT
us out quite a bit," says Stark. "They give us some transportation and some meals on away trips. So we really are more than just a dub sport." 
The return ofthree Division III all­
[p(UJ[?a[p(Q)~~ to help you consider the priesthood in the 
Americans Is the key to an Irish team that is off to a very successful start. jeanine Blatt, Lee Ann Brislawn, and 
Congregation of Holy Cross 
K.2thy Latino all placed in the top 
-
twelve In their respective events at last year's nationals. "AU three girls are strong swim­
[Q)~If~~ Friday, February 13 to Saturday, February 14 
says McLaughlin. "Blatt 
7:00p.m. 12:00p.m.
the: five hundred yard 
medley in consecutive: at our meets. Brislawn swims ofthc: first five events for us." 
[p[L~(C~Moreau Seminary
The: three are backed by an ex­rienced crew ofswlmmers. Retur­Harrington, Debbie: and Terri Schindler com­butterfly, freestyle, and 
[?a~@~~lf[?a~lf~(Q)[NJ by calling the Vocation Office ­
a trio of newcomers as making big no cost 6385 to the team's success 

-~ ~-­
~----------------------------------------------------------------------~---­
The Observer Friday, January 23, 1981 -page 12 
The can is green I The beer is golden I ­It was brewed by Leprechauns? Isuppose it's possible-
FIGHTING IRISH 

Any student interested in the position of 
Observer 
I 
r I I 
Editor-In-Chief 
I 
I 
For 1981-1982
I I I 
Contact Paul at 7471
r applications due Jan. 27 

Irish leers playDenver at the ACC. (See related story page 16) (Photo by RachelBlount.) 

-
ESSEXGRO 

Involved in the DESIGN, DEVELOPMENT, and MANUFACTURE of a 
wide variety of electrical wire and cable products for appliance, 
construction, utility, and communications industries. 
SEEKING:_B_S_C_h_E_I_BS_E_E_/_B_S_M_E__________ 
INTERVIEWING HERE:_F_r_id_a....:....y_,F_e_b_r_ua_r....:....y_6_th________ 
Please check with your placement office for more information. 

An Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F/H/V 
...Trial 
(continuedfrom page 6) 
week, claims that he was a victim of torture and intimidation while in Vitnamese hands. 
In testimony yesterday, second Navy psychiatrist raised the pos­sibility that Garwood intentionally blocked psychological tests in an ef­fort to be found mentally ill 
Capt. Michael A. Harris testified that the level of"falsification" was so high on tests given Garwood last year that they had to be discounted. 
Navy psychiatrist Capt. Benjamin R Ogburn, testifying in Garwood's court-martial on charges of deser­tion and collaboration with the enemy in Vietnam, said Garwood ap­parently was never given an oppor­tunity to comment on other Americans still being held by the North Vietnamese when he returned to the United States in early 1979. 
Attempts by the defense to in­troduce evidence about the pos­sibility of remaining POWs were ruled irrelevant in the 10-week trial of Garwood. However, Ogburn made his statements while testifying as a rebuttal witness for the prosecu­tion. 
Ogburn said the matter of other Americans in captivity came up while he was evaluating Garwood last October to determine his men­tal capabilities. 
"Garwood felt that he was treated differently from anyone else when he came home because he wasn't fully debriefed," Ogburn said. "His main concerns were other Americans that he knew were in Vietnam. He did not know exactly who they were." 
Prosecutors insisted that Gar­wood was debriefed in the presence of his previous defense team, but chief defense counsel John Lowe asserted that it was only a partial debriefing. Ogburn said he had been informed by prosecution lawyers that the debriefing was not as com­prehensive as that ofother returning POWs. 
The psychiatrist said that Gar­wood "was upset and concerned at the fact he was not debriefed like other people. He knew that there were other people still in Vietnam and he thought that should be brought out. 


• 

The Observer Friday,January 23, 1981 -page 13 

CINCINNATI (AP) -As Super ,games were on TV, and we Bowl XV fever mounts toward Sun­watched," Gregg said "We knew day's game between the Oakland ·some ofthe: players who had been In Raiders and the Philadelphia Eagles, our league and then moved to that Cincinnati Bengal Coach Forrest league. Most of them, we didn't
I
Gregg recalls the first Super Bowl. ,know." 
The memory is vivid In his mind · To get ready for the first Super because he played in Super Bowl I as Bowl, the Packers had to do more a member ofthe Green Bay Packers, than the usual reviewing of op­who defeated the Kansas City Chiefs ponents' game rums. 35-10. "On rum, you see the obvious ­
"There: was a feeling of uncer· the size, the weight and the speed of · talnty, like going Into the unknown," those people," he said. Gregg said ofthat pioneer adventure "Some ofthem had achieved great by the long-established National notoriety In college. What we didn't Football League. know was how good the players 
"We were familiar with the were who the Chiefs went up American Football League. Their against." 
monday night film series 
An eclectic series of films shown in conjunction with the course GOTH 140 (Basics of Film Studies) and sponsored by the Department of Communication & Theatre. The series is historically and nationally varied, not only to suit the pur· pose of the class, but also to provide local viewers with the opportunity to see films not otherwise available here. 
All showings in the Annenberg Auditorium, the Snite Museum of Art, Notre Dame campus at 7:30 P.M. 
Individual Admissions $1.00 series Ticket: 12 films for Sl0.00 
Monday, March 9 Monday, January 26 
Kiss Me Deadly (United Artists) 1955 The General (United Artists) 1926 Robert Aldrich directed A. I. Bezzerides's adaptation of the 
Buster Keaton stars as a Confederate railroad engineer in infamous Mickey Spillane novel in one of the most baroquesingle-handed battle against the entire Union Army. One of and fascinating crime films of the 1950's. With RalphKeaton's best. 
Meeker and Cloris Leachman. 
Monday, February 2 
Monday, March 23 · The Mother (USSR) 1926 
Hiroshima Mon Amour (France/Japan) 1959 
V.I. Pudovkin adapted Maxim Gorky's revolutionary drama In an accomplished and influential early film of the French in a classic of th·e early Soviet cinema. 
New Wave, Alain Resnais rendered Marguerite Duras's screenplay of an apocalyptic love affair. Cinematography
Monday, February 9 
by Sacha Vierny.Boudu Saved from Drowning (France) 1932 
Jean Renoir's anarchistic tale of the fortunes of a Parisian 
Monday, March 30 
tramp. With Michel Simon. 2001 (MGM) 1968 
Stanley Kubrick's epic tale of apes, spacemen and evolu·
Monday, February 16 
tion, from a short story by Arthur C. Clarke. Love Me Tonight (Universal) 1932 Cinematography by Geoffrey Unsworth, special effects by Rouben Mamoulian directed Maurice Chevalier and Douglas Trumbull. With Keir Dullea and Gary Lockwood. 
Jeanette MacDonald in this charming and unconventional musical. Music by Rodgers and Hart. 
Monday, April 6 
The Good, the Bad and the Ugly (Italy) 1966 
Monday, February 23 
Sergio Leone's dazzling spaghetti Western stars Clint The Little Foxes (RKO) 1941 Eastwood, Lee Van Cleef and Eli Wallach, respectively. Lillian Hellman adapted her own play of a scheming 
Monday, April 13
Southern business family. William Wyler directed and Greg (Citizen Kane) Toland did the cinematography. With Bette Badlands (Warner Brothers) 1974 Davis, Herbert Marshall and Dan Duryea. Ma~tin Sheen and Sissy Spacek lead as star-crossed young killers on the run across the American prairies in the 1950s. 
Monday, March 2 
A brilliant and original film by Terence Malick. With Germany Year Zero (Italy/France) 1947 Warren Oates. Roberto Rossellini scripted and directed this austere and 
Monday, April 27
powerful vision of Post-War Germany seen through the 
eyes of an emotionally devastated young boy. The American Friend (Germany/USA) 1977 Win Wender's international thriller marks the meeting of the New German Cinema with the Hollywood genre film. With Bruno Ganz, Dennis Hopper, Lisa Kruger, Nicholas Ray and Samuel Fuller. 
The Packers knew· that most people expected the NFL champion · to win the Super Bowl 
"We felt like we could win, but we . felt llke we could beat anybody at that time," Gregg said. "Our league was supposed to be the best league. ' 
"The AFL was only formed In . 1960. We didn't feel It could ' progress in six years as far as the NFL had in.40-some-odd. 
"We knew we were experienced -we had won everything anybody put in front of us -but there was still a feeling ofuncertainty." 
The first half was close, with Green Bay leading 14·1 0 at halftime. "Willie Wood intercepted a pass 
In the second hal(" Gregg recalled. "That turned the game around for us." 
Wood returned the interception to the Chiefs' 5-yard line, Green Bay scored easily, then punched across two more touchdowns to win 35·10. 
"Physically, maybe: they were as good," Gregg said, thinking back to that Kansas City team and the first Super Bowl. "They were much younger than we were, and the dlf· ference in that game was probably our experience and the caliber of competition we had faced. 
"Just three years later, those same Kansas City players had matured, and they won the Super Bowl 

The Observer Friday,January 23, 1981 -page 14 
I I 
i 
I 
I I I 
r­
~ 
r 
Scoop needs help! 
Layout positions CallJohn at 1715 
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS 
Purdue struggled to a 55-50 win over stubborn Northwestern, while ninth-ranked Iowa squeaked by the Indiana Hoosiers 56-53 in Big Ten basketball action last night. 
At West Lafayette, Ind., Purdue senior Drake Morris scored 12 ofhis 20 points in the second half last night as. Purdue defeated Northwes­tern 55-50 to remain in a tie for frrst place in the Big Ten basketball standings. 
The Boilermakers survived a rally by Northwestern, which cut a 11­point second half deficit to only one 
Iow-a, Purdue grasp victory 
point on a pair offree throws by Rod Roberson with approximately four minutes remaining. 
A Morris layup gave the Boiler­makers a 51-48 edge with 3:44 remaining. It was Purdue's first bas­ket in more than six minutes. Brian Walker then provided more breath­ing room by making both ends of a one-and-one free throw situation with 1:03 remaining. 
Roberson, who had 14 points to share Northwestern scoring honors with Jim Stack, cut the deficit to three points wih a layup 47 seconds before the final buzzer. 
But, Kevin Stallings and Walker 

If you're a nursing student with an average of 3.0 ( on a 4.0 scale ) you can get your career off the ground early. 
The Air Force's Early Commissioning Programoffers: e Aguaranteed internship program. e Top pay... while you train. e Abenefits package second to none. 
Time is short, so call today: 
(317) 269-6377 collect 
Or see the Air Force recruiter who'll 
be in your school every day until January 27. 
each hit a free throw to wrap up the victory. 
Purdue, expected to be in a rebuilding year this season, is now 11-3 overall and 4-1 in the con­ference. Northwestern fell to 7-7 and 1-4. 
In Bloomington, Ind., Kevin Boyle scored 14 points to lead the No. 9 Iowa Hawkeyes to a 56-53 victory 
over Indiana 
"Ifthere's a better clutch player in America, I d'on't know of him," said Iowa coach Lute Olson of Boyle's 
play. 
Iowa sophomore guard Bob Han­sen also drew praise from the coach. He made only four points, but they were all free throws in the last 1 0 
seconds. 
"It's great to see Hansen do so well after he had not been playing well previously," Olson said. 
"I was pretty confident when I stepped up to the free throw line," Hansen recalled. "I really didn't hear the crowd. I really didn't think about all the field goals I had missed before I went to the free throw line." 
The victory was Iowa's first in Bloomington over Indiana since 1970 and the first at-home con­ference loss fr the Hoosiers in two 
vear~. 
Iowa, 12-2 for the season and 4-1 in conference action, pulled to a 50­46 lead as Kenny Arnold hit a five­foot jumper and then Vince Brookins scored on a layup with 2:14left. 
Randy Whitman closed the gap to two with 1 :24 remaining on a 15­footer. But Brookins got another layup. 
Ray Tolbert scored a three-point play with 1 :02 remaining. Kitchel and Tolbert scored 18 points apiece to lead Indiana, now 1 0-7 and 3-2. 
Hansen then scored his four straight free throws. 
Coach Faust to lecture 
Gerry Faust will deliver a lecture on Sunday night in the Cavanaugh Hall study lounge at 7:30 p.m. All students are invited to attend. If you have any questions contact Dave El­lison at 1558. 
. Track 
(continuedfrom page 15) 
High School who has cleared 6-9 in his career, should be a welcome ad­dition to the Irish squad as will first­year pole vaulter Paul Jorgensen (Holte, Denmark), who had jumped 15-6 with the pole and triple jumped 48-10. 
Junior Jacques Eady (North Babylon, N.Y.) is Notre Dame's most versatile track man, and may see ac­tion in any on ofa number ofevents -the 300-yard dash, the 440-yard race, the long jump, the high jump or the distance medley. Classmate Jim Christian (North Babylon, N.Y.) joins Eady to form a strong Irish sprint crew along with Steve Dziabis (North Manchester, Ind.) and Dave Bernards (Portland, Ore.), who doubles as a hurdler. Junior Tim Twardzik ( Shennandoah, Pa) returns to the Notre Dame inter­mediate hurdles unit. 
Aragon already earned a ticket to 
the NCAA Indoor Championships in 
March by turning in a I :52.2 clock­
ing at last weekend's Eastman Kodak 
Invitational but missed the NCAA 
qualifying standard by six-tenths ofa 
second 



I 
Sj)ortsc13=r=t=·e~======*=================Fnk==~=Jm=u=~=~='=~~==-=p=a~==1' 
I 
1 
1 
,
Classifieds 
NEED Uq.A GA'S-·CAU. MAlT AT New York Times now available In
WANTED 
OH GOD IS COMING TO THE KPC 
PERSONALS
2~2·0921. 
box outside store by 2 a.m. dally FRI. A: SAT. AT 7,94: 11.
NEEDED: ONE GUITAR FOR RENT 
PANDORA'S BOOKS, 937 South THIS SEMESTER CAlL EVENINGS NEED 2 GA TICKETS FOR JAN. 31 
Bend Ave., 233·2342. AT 287·2057. MAKE SOMll MONEY SC GAME, CAlL 6814. IP YOU DON'T PLAY YOUR GUITAR 
SATURDAY NIGHT BABY YOU COME HERE GUITAR IMPRES­ANYMORE. Pour exceUent padded seats for NAZZI 
WERE BORN TO RUN SENIOR BAR SIONISM AT ITS BEST. TONIGHT SpriniJIIleen. CaU Rob 277·0865. NAZZI
SPRINGSTEIN NIGHT MANY DEER 
AT THE CORNUCUPJA. IIELP WANTED-Earn up to 11,000 
NAZZISPECIALS (MICHIGAN ST) or more for a few evenlnp work. No Senior !lludent b-baU ticket book for NAZZI 
selling. Just hang po!llen on your sale. UCLA ticket Included. Padded HI MARY I WVE YOU. YOU.
SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES ROMEO toun of Europe. For details, write: 
l'ampus advertising our haU· price seat. CaU Marc at 1369. FOR RENT BEGINS NEXT WEEK. 
Houses for rent summer and/or nextTRAVEL STUDY INTERNATIONAL, Wanted: 2·4 GA'sto UCLA and/or Sr. 
school year. Good condition, dose Chria Malone, Happy llkh birthday20~0 East 4800 South, Suite 101, Salt Francis basketbaU games. Top U U. 
Looldna for riden to FLORIDA over Lake City, UT 84117. CaU 1804. 
to campus, partlaUy furnished. Por to the best lister In the world. Hope 
oprlng break. Cotd>rtabk: ride In Info caU 287·5361 after 6 p.m. you have a blast visiting. Love you,
Need UCLA tickets: 2 student and I VANIII CaU Kathie at283·095 ,atctr NEEDAJOD? 
Mary
GA. WIU pay megabuck US. Please 6 277·7407. CAMPUS PRES.~ needs 
House for rent, second semester 
1 secretary/layout artist to work 1-~ 
caU Cyndy 8014. 
and/or next year. Excellent condi­Artificial birth control: Is there anot· 
YOU'VE HEARD ABOUT IT, YOU'VE Tues. It Thurs. thla semester. Job In· 
tion, dose to campus, partlaUy fur­her way? Yea, Natural Family Plan­
WIU pay good money for several READ ABOUT IT, BUT DO THEY dudes taking orders and poster set 
nished. Por Info caU 287·5~61 after 6 ning Is safe, healthy, elfectlvc.
UCLA Tlx--caU Dan 8233. GIVE MATCHES? up..no experience necessary. Need 
p.m. EVERYONE Invited to learn more. 
!IOmeone who'U be able to stay on for Mon. Jan. 26, 7:~ p.m., Ubrary
Need 2 UCLA GA'S. CaUJim, 4613. NATURAL FAMtLY PLANNING nell! year. Apply at Campus Press, For Rent: Cozy apt. for rent near Auditorium. Engaaed and married 
GIVES A WOMAN, NOT A DRUG­1-5.
basement of Lafortune, Any need 2 GA'S to ANY remaining home River & Park. Sl50/mo. CaU 232-couplet caU 2118-2662 to reglste for 
GIST ORA DOCTOR, CONTROLOP on
questlons? CaU 7047 or Diane at basketbaH game. CaU Orad Ill 1247 4549. caU starting Tues. Jan. 27th HER BODY. CAN YOUR MI!THOD 7922. campus. 
CLAIM THAn EVERYONE INVITBD Graduate student looking for
fOR SALE TO I.I!AilN MORE ON MONDAY, NEED ENGINEERING ECONOMY roommates to share dean five NAZZI NAZZI NAZZI NAZZI NAZZI 
JAN. 26, AT 7:~ P.M., UBR.AaY AND AUTOMATIC CONTilOL TI-58 Calc:Sale, Phil 8H8 
bedroom house. Fully funlshed NAZZI NAZZIIs back! NAZZI NAZZI 
AUDITORIUM. ENGR. DOOKSCAILRJCK 19~2 
Including washer/dryer. •70 per NAZZI NAZZI NAZZI NAZZI NAZZI 
month. 2811-3109. Is back! NAZZI NAZZI NAZZI NAZZIFor Sale 1974 AMC Hornet. Good 
NAZZI NAZZI NAZZIIs back! NAZZI Graduate student looking for 4 NAZZI NAZZI NAZZI NAZZI NAZZI Need 2 GA Tlx for UCLA..WIU gladly Condition. S200 GEORGE BURNS AND JOHN DEN· 
pay big bucks. CaU 1), 3207. VER ARE COMING TO THE roommates for 5-bedroom house, NAZZI Is back! 
KNIGHTS OFCOLUMBUS ON FR.l.ll:NOTICES lfuUy·furnlshed, with washer and
WANT TO SElL YOUR SAT. AT 7,9 ll: 11 :00 APPI!AJUNG IN dryer. SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD, 170
TYPEWRITER? CAlL CHUCK 8705 OH GOD ADMISSION IS U MEM·
MARJUED? ENGAGED? SEARCHING THERE'S MORE TO THE STORY a month. CaU 2118-3109. 
BEllS ARE FREE.
POR A SAFE, HEALTifY, Efi'ECTIVE
TitAN MEETS THE EYE Notre Oame'a !lludent radio Illations, AND MORAllY ACCEPTABLE CAMPUS VIEW APT. AVAIL. GREAT­
WSND, hu openlnga for sports MEANS OP PLANNING PREG­
LEARN TO PLY WITH REGIONAL LY REDUCED RENT. USA AT 2968
production positions. If you are In­NANCIES? CAlL 2118-2662 TO
SOLO IN LESS THAN 30 DAYS BOB COONEY..you're a super coacb
OR MARIEAT277-3579.
terested, caU Brian Reimer at 6397 REGISTER POR NATURAL FAMILY
Regional Flying Club Is a nonprofit with a auper b-baU team! TOM between ten and eleven In the mor· Pl.ANNING CLASS STARTING TUJ!S. 
organization dedicated to the train­SERJO..I promise: I won't talk 10
POR RENT: Large, furnished houses
nln& or leave a not In the station Ing of students. We offer you the DAY, JANUARY :z7, ON CAMPUS. for next PaU. For more Information, 
much anyone! BilL DONLON-·Give 
(located on the fourth Jloor of 
finest equipment at the lowest rates the women on this campus a chancel
call 283-8702.
O'Shauahneuy). 
In this area. Regional can take you GREG WlEDI!ItAMP··Do you want a 
from ground Instruction up through OH GOD IS COMING TO THE pol(card from Hoollerland? LGTwo Notre Dame students are 
solo In less than 30 days. CaU us now KNIGHTS OP COLUMBUS ON
ILOST/FOUND I
looking for one or two roomates to at 683·9499 and start llylngtoday. MO<Men can't be cbooeen Bruce.
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY AT 7,9 ll:
Uve In Jive bedroom house. CaU 234· Lost silver St. Christopher medal Ben
11:00. ADM. IS U MEMBEIIll ARE7988 and uk for Bob or Mike for Thurs. 1-1 5-81 at Stepan call FrankPROFESSIONAL TYPING. Term ADM.PREE
detal... 
1740papers, theses, etc. Tape transcrip­
tion. Last year's same low prices. AU IIIU. DEMPSEY: TurningJapanese?
Friday Ill the NAZZ. Tom Komlck,Deapcrately needed: 2 pain ofUCLA LOST: Silver pierced earring (whilework guaranteed. aardvark Mik.e Daley, Gran Cleveland, SammyGA'a for Jr. Parenu' Weekend. Please enameled llower). Reward. lffound,
automatic solutions. 289-6753. Dlsmond, AND MORElli! GOODE IS BAD Jim Goode forcaU Maun=en or Sue 11 4424. 
call 277-8819. 
UMOC PANDORA'S BOOKS can save you 
COPY EDITORS--Tim, KeUI and Lost: Men's gold class ring. P.C. 111gb
many doUars on books for your Kathy C., you have I I I waiting from FllANJUE ... Can you beUeve It? ll'a a
TICKETS School. Orange stone. Phil 8338.
classes. Try us lint. We can special last semester; pick up your checks 11b'l&11 
order books, both texts and paper­from Shirley. IIanyone would lllr.c: to MAilV AUIERT Need 2 tlckeu to Bruce SprlniJIIleen. Lost: room and car keys, near ad
backs, and usuaUy have the books chanee nlgbu, caU Mary Fran ( 7992 
within ~ days. Pandora's Is a fuU· or 7471). AlSQ..Both new and oldFloor or pads. CaU John Hllll!ins Ill bldg. on an FBI ring. If found call 
8700.
8~53 In the morning or evenln(l. service bookstore with new and copy edlton need to pick up the God'a only mlslak.e. Jim Goode for 
used books, newspapers and UMOC. Need 4 t1x to Bruce SprlniJIIlttn con­FOUND: A WATCH IN STANFORI> 
handouu wwlth the nnv codct If 
magazines. PANDORA'S BOOKS, 
they have not already do~ 10. 1be cert. wiU buy In pain. CaUJim 43-52. HAIL'S PARTY ROOM LAST FRIDAY
937 South Bend Ave., 2~3-2~42. codca uc on the shell In the Jobn8., (JAN.l6).CAU.PAUL8636. 
llnl'lrOOm with old pepen Somctlma ll ...ys lObe llOOd upl NEED 2 GA TICKETS FOR NO· UCLA 
SeU your old textbooks or trade crltJqucd. Darac:U2WaWI BASKETIWJ. GAME. PU!ASE CAlL Lost: Woman's Gold Watch on
them In for your spring textbooks. SHIJUn AT8661 OR1715 BEFORE Friday: 6728 Sue or Chrillly 6734.
Immediate exchange or credit for GOOSE: ARE YOU GOING TO Q: ...... llaiUft cl6d Jldl: ol 5P.M. 
future purchases. Good prices forr SPIUNGSTEEN?CAILMBIIIIIII HlJIIP "~ lillie dllcOftr In dlr LOST-ONE BROWN BACKGAM·
moet used books. PANDORA'S Ylllwa? NEED POUR GA'S FOR SOUTH MON SET ON THE D.C. CLUB X·MAS 
BOOKS, 937 South Bend Ave., 2H· Happy belaled 22nd IMrtbday,l'n'SY A: 1be ....,._ tbM Wd the Fide• CAilOIJNA. CAlL BOB 4641. BUS. IF POUND PLEASE CAIJ.. 3327.
2342. kliJ111 42 In 2004 
---------------------------------------------------r------• 
bv The Oburt•er and The Auodated PreJJ 
Gerry Faust would Uke any freshman men in­terested in joining the student managers organization to attend an lmponant meeting this afternoon In the ACC auditorium. Faust will address his urgent need for freshman managers for upcoming spring football practice. The meeting Is scheduled for 5 p.m. 
The Notre Dame Ski Team competed In the Michigan Governor's Cup Race last weekend, along with 15 other schools from Indiana, Michigan, Ohio and Iowa. Freshman Mike Maas took fifth place honors In the slalom and sixth place In the giant slalom. Any racers interested In training late Saturday afternoon should contact Mike Case at 288-0416. The team will leave the Main Circle at 4:00p.m. Also, yearbook pictures will be taken this weekend. Contact Mike or Barry ( 2140) concerning the time and place. 
A fonner manager of DePaul's tennis team has been sentenced to 30 years In prison for killing the team's star player. Cir­cuit Judge James M. Bailey sentenced Frank Alene yesterday after­noon. Alene, 25, was convicted Dec. 18 by a jury that deliberated less than 90 minutes. He had been charged wih murder in the stabbing of Paul Kelly, 19, outside a residence hall Jan. 12, 1980. Kelly was the team's number one singles player. Alene will be eligible for parole after serving at least 1 5 years. 
ND trackmen off and running 
The Notre Dame track team begins Its indoor season tomorrow at 11:30 a.m. as the Irish travel tc­Iowa City for a dual meet with the Hawke yes ofthe University ofIowa. 
The 1981 Notre Dame squad boasts a number of returning veterans through the ranks of its traditionally powerful middle dis­tance crew and features a quartet of freshmen that should be heard from right away. 
Senior co-captain Cheuk Aragon (Los Lunas, N.M.) and Tim Macauley (Sherman Oaks, Calif) were All­America members of the 1979 Irish two-mile relay team and are strong Individual performers In the 880­yard race. Aragon and Macauley will be pressured to pick up the slack lost In the graduation ofNotre Dame All­Americans Pete Durger and Jay Miranda. 
"It's going to be a little harder for us to beat Iowa this year," says Irish coach Joe Plane, a one-point victor over the Hawkeyes In 1980. "We lost a lot In the middle distances. They're very strong jumpers and we lost our first-place winners In the triple jump and pole vault from last year as well." 
Injuries to Notre Dame distance veterans Kevin Kenny (knee) and 
Tony Hatherly (calf), along with pole vaulter and triple jumper Paul 1Doyle (hamstring), will hamper the 
Irish effon. 
"We'll need some help from our 
freshmen," says Plane. 
And help should be on the way 
with the addition offreshmen milers 
Andy Dillon (Redford, Mich.) and 
Ralph Caron (Chicago, IU.), both 
standout prepsters and contributors 
on last fall's Notre Dame cr08S 
country team. Freshman Barney 
Grant (New Rochelle, N.Y.), an all­
state high jumper at Clarkston South 
See TRACK, JMlle 14 
---~­
..--------------­
·Friday,January 23, 1981 -page 16
SJ>orts 
TracyJackson: Terp Killer 


Tracyjackson is going home. Not 
for good, mind you, just for the 
weekend just to play Maryland, the 
10tb·ranked college basketball team 
in tbe nation. jackson and the rest of 
tbe Irish meet the Terrapinsfor only 
the eighth time ever tomorrow in 
the Cole Field House: 
The Irish will be attempting to even the series as the Terps carry a 4-3 advantage into tomorrow's game, a game which promises every­thinganyone could want in a college basketball game: great players, charismatic coaches, speed, power, and great shooting. 
The Irish travel east with a very satisfying and much needed victory overSan Francisco under their belts. Coach Digger Phelps sees the vic­tory as very important to the psyc­hological well-being ofhis team. 
"Tbe win over San Francisco gave us tbe confidence we need to beat a team of Maryland's caliber. It was especially a great win for the bench. Tbey showed they could play well under pressure." 
Ofcourse, no one is tryiniJ.O ~y Mriyfllld will be easy. --· "Maryland has a great team when they play together. In &ct, this team 
over tbe last two years may be the best Lefty Driesell has ever had. I would think they have as good a 
chance as anyone ofmaking it to the Final Four this year. 1 
"The toughest thing about Maryland is their balance. It's not enough to just stop King or Wil­liams, because then Graham or Man­ning will hurt you. Everyone will have to play well for us to win." : 
Indeed, Maryland does look imposing on paper. Albert King was an aU-American last year as a junior, and baa picked up this yearwhere he left oft: He is averaging over 20 points per game and is recogniZed by most as one of the top three or four college players in the nation. 
ByDAVEIRWIN 
Sports Writer 
Shari Matvey, aiready Notre
• all im din
Dame s ·t e 1ea g scorer as a
h alii d hl..h 
20
sop omore, t e a game· eo• points and 10 rebounds to pace ~e Lady Irish past visiting ValparatSO, 57-48, Thursday night at the ACC. 
Freshman Theresa Mullins chipped in 13 points and four rebounds in a 20 minute relief role. The winners still needed two free 
throws•bv)'ullins and a jumper and a free t /ow by freshman guard Mol· 
. . 
tended their lead to ll·point mar· gins at 34·23 and 46-35 before n~-.. Tb ' isi
1
1
near Y co.....,~.g. e v tors closed the margin to 53·48 with 1 41 ainin in the
: rem g game.
"f happy win," Irish h ad 
m to .. e coach Mary DiStanislao. We hung in their wben Val~ made a run 
For support, King baa Buck Wil'· Iiams, Greg Manning, and Ernest Gnbam, each averaging in double figures in scoring each game for the second consecutive year. Williams was a member ofthe 1980 Olympic Team, was an honorable mention all· American last year, and will take up any slack in the scoring department. 
Manningwill be runningthe show from bls guard position, and Graham · will be crashing the boards with bls devastating combination of speed and power. And as If all this is not enough, one learns that the Terps have an exceptional fast break and play a tenacious man-to-man defense recognized as one of the best in college basketball. 
"My adrenalin is flowing ...." 
Nevertheless, the Irish have some bright spots themselves. Kelly Tripucka, Orlando Wooiridge, and John Paxson all turned in excellent 
performances against San Francisco, 

and TracyJackson is slated to return · ================M=a=ry=la=n=d=g=a=m=e.=(=P=h=o=to=by=j=o=h=n=M=a=c=o=r)=========== 
to action after missing one game with a sprained ankle. · 
"Tracy will run today, so we'll see ' bow he feels. But I definitely expect· h1m to be on the court Saturday," says Phelps. 
Any avid follower of Irish basket· ball can understand the importance · of Jackson's presence against . Maryland He has become the Ter­rapin killer. Thiee years ago, in a game nationally televised by NBC, Jackson led the Irish past the Terps with nine points in the last seven and one-half minutes, and earned NBC's Most Valuable Player award for his performance. Last year, he scored the winning basket with six seconds remaining, and NBC again bestowed 
Irish basketball 
Women rally, 57-48 
"We have Bashes of brillance, but jthe mental breakdowns, which lead to physical breakdowns, hurt us." 
"Tak M fo 1 
e atvey r an examp e.
D ~ d d • ha
eaensive y 1 we i n t get w t we 
1 need and depend on for her size. Sdte she bad 10 rebounds, but that's ltke being on tip-toes. H she would get offthe ftoor she would have had 
20_.. Junior forward Tricia McManus 
also played a strong game, scoringnine poiilts and grabbing eight rebounds to help the Irish to a 41·35 d tb boards M im rtant
e ge on e . ore po · 
ly p~ to nail down their stxth vic· I 1 be bl k d ~ h ts
0
t ...Y against eight defeats. ' Ys oc e aour s · . The Irish trailed early, 21.18, DIStanislao altered her startmg before grabbing a 24·21 halftime line-up, inserting junior Missy Con· lead on the strength of Matvey's 10 boy at forward. Conboy, however, fililed to score or grab a rebound 
points in just 13 minqtes of action. "Missy can play bigger than she In the second ~ the Irish ex-' is," DIStanislao said "Tonight, 
, however, the jury is still out. The Irish are nowready to embark 
upon the rough part of their h dul th Ia br Bi T
sc e e as ey p y t ee g en 
scboo'-I i nat h
"'• p us nat o power ouses 
South Carolina and Virginia, before the lAIAW Division I Tournament at Bloomington, Ind, on March 6-7. 
tbe,Most Valuable Player award on hlni. One baa to wonder about this yeat, because NBC is televising the game once again ( 1:30 EST tap-o~ Cbanne116). 
jackson resides in ttearby Silver Spring, Maryland, and attends the same church as Terp Coach Lefty Driescll. It is a very special game for the senior. 
"My adrenalin is flowing more against them than any other team. I get personal satis&ction from beating Maryland," says Jackson. Tom Sluby and Cecil Rucker will probably experience the same emo­tions for the first time this Saturday as both are from the Washington area. 
Another bright spot for Phelps was the performance ofTim Andree against San Francisco. 
"Andree did a great job against Bryant in the San Francisco game, despite getting into early foul trouble. He will be starting against Williams in Maryland," says Phelps. 
All in all, the match-up promises to be one ofthe most exciting ofthe year. The makings of a classic are present. In the end, the team that maintains the highest level of inten­sity and is able to play its game will emerge with a very sweet victory. 
Irish Hockey 
No excuses now I 
Last Saturday night, under the North Dome of the Athletic and Convocation Center, one of the best campus sporting events seen this year was unfolding. The Notre Dame Hockey team, a 7·3 loser to number one-ranked North Dakota the night before, was playing the Fighing Sioux to a 1·1 tie. 
"It was probably one of the best hockey games I've ever seen here," trainerJohn Whitmer said on Monday. And john Whitmer has seen quite a few hockey games 
here. 
"In a way it was good that there was no winner be­cause neither team deserved to lose," he added "That game had everything. Close checking, good skating, great goaltending and both teams played their hearts out." 
No one, not even a sports writer, could say it any better. The excitement of watching ninth-place Notre Dame stand offthe best team in the nation is the kind of 
food that &ttens up the .----------------------, 
giant-killer reputation someone hung on Notre Dame before any of us were bom 
On the football field there are stories too numerous to remember, let alone men· tion. On the basketball court there isn't a number-one ranked team in the land that would bet its record on a game in the ACC. 
So, what's to say the Irish can't accomplish the same thing on ice? 
Quite frankly, not a thing. 
However it might be a bit 
Dumf1 Denver
'.JJ 
discount 
Notre Dame's Athletic Department is sponsoring a "Dump Denver Discount" for this weekend's hockey series with the Denver Pioneers. Regular S4 student tickets will be sold at the gate for S2.50 apiece. The discount special will be of· fered both Friday and Saturday. Game time for the two games is 7:30p.m. each night. 
easierIfthe icers got the same support as the cagers and the gridders. (And don't you bate those stupid eup­hemisms?) But don't take my word for it; ask the icers. 
"I think it makes a difference," offered Bob McNamara, the goaltender who stopped 33 Dakota shots in that 1-1 tie. "At least for me anyway. When we skated out for overtime last Saturday and the arena was quiet, well it was kind ofa let down." 
"Everyone says it doesn't matter," added Dave Poulin, "but it really does." 
And who are the people who aren't showing up? The students, that's who. The same students that managed to get their mugs plastered on national television by holding up SAVE HOCKEY posters at last year's Notre 
Tracy ]d'tkson takes to the hoop for two poiflts in last year's 

Dame be frozen under the ice of the center fuce-off circle. The story received national. attention and the Notre Dame students were praised for their diligence. 
And now we're being ridiculed for what amounts to nothing less than gross lack of support. The same writers and observers who thought we were serious, now believe we were nothing more than hypocrites. 
And If you saw the empty seats that surrounded a game featuring the number-
one team in the nation, you might feel the same way too. Of course, it's true that ticket prices are a bit higher this year; but the students agreed that a price-hike was the only fair way to meet rising costs. Of course, stu· dents were offered a 50 per­cent discount If they purchased season tickets last summer, but not many did that and, consequently, 
it costs four dollars for a ND· SMC student to attend a 
hockey game. 
Or, should I say, it used to cost four dollars. Because starting with tonight's game against the number two· rated Denver Pioneers, every Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student will be able to see the Notre Dame hockey team for 12.50. It is an effort being made by the athletic department to increase support as well as give the student bodyan entertainment alternative at a more reasonable cost. 
The DUMP DENVER DISCOUNT will be the first in many such promotions designed to bring hockey back to an affordable level for the students. Because four dol· Iars was admittedly a bit high for students to pay for a hockey ticket. But 12.50 is not much more than it used to be or should be. 
at us. We dkln't fold.  Tbe Irish travel to Saint Mary's Wed·  Dame-Marquette basketball game. Yeah, right, those are  All ofwhich means there really aren't any excuses left  
Dcapke  ber  team's  victory,  nesday night  to  tackle  the  ever·  the same students who went to meetings, signed peti­ for missing out on the action...or living up to the com­ 
DiStan1slao wasn't totally pleased  tough Belles. Notre Dame defeated  tions, wrote vitriolic letters to the editor demanding  mittment made with all the signs, banners, petitionsand  
·,_ ·~rd ~_a lot happier If we were more consistent," DiStanlslao said  Saint Mary' 71·52 on December 8. ' s, '  that any villian bent on wiping out hockey at Notre  complaints.  



