
---------, 
' 

.Reagan -page 4 

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 1981 

an independent srudcnt newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's VOL XV, NO. 1 13 
20th Anniversary 
Shriver lauds Peace Corps 
By DAVID RICKABAUGH 
SeniorStaffReporter 
Former Director of the Peace Corps Sargent Shriver gave the keynote address for the two-day Peace Corps/lJniversity of Notre Dame 20th Anniversary Celebration last night in the Library Auditorium. 
The celebration pays tribute to the alliance between the university and the Peace Corps since the formation ofthe agency. 
Sargent Shriver served as the first director ofthe Peace Corps and for· mally announced in a commence· ment address in June, 1961, that the lJniversity would administer the 
-Chilean Peace Corps Project. 
One month later, a training program for 51 young men and women began at Notre Dame under the direction of Walter Langford. professor of modern languages. In· eluded in the first group were nine Notre Dame and three Saint Mary's College graduate: 
Shriver's address, "What does the Peace Corps do for a changing society?," commented on the present position of the Peace Corps and the possible role ofthe program in the future. 
The 1972 Democratic Vice­Presidential candidate said that since 1966 federal allocations for 
the project decreased from 114 mil­lion dollars to 95 million dollars and the number ofvolunteers decreased from thirteen thousand to six 
Duarte leads Salvador junta 
By JEFF CHOPPIN 
StaffReporter 
jose Napoleon Duarte, 1948 Notre Dame graduate, was selected president of the ruling military/civilian junta in El Salvador in Decemher, 191-10. Since that time, the violence and internal strife ofthe country have escalated and fallen under international scrutiny. 
For Duarte, who majored in civil engineering, this was the second time that he has been chosen presi­dent. In 1972, he won the popular election easily over the government-hacked candidate, hut the military nullified the result. Duarte was then imprisoned and tortured hy the military. He lost two fingers and had a bone hroken in the back of his neck. He went into exile 

after he was freed. He returned to El Salvador in March, 1980 when he rt·plan·d a civilian who had resigned trying to fire Defense Minister jose Guillermo Garcia. 
After the slayings of four mis· sionaries last December 2, the United States applied prt"ssure to the junta to restructure itself The military then named Duarte, who was supported hy the United States, a~ Duarte had replaced a civiiJan in the junta who had resigned trying president of the junta. The reor­ganization of the junta meant what two of the more reform-minded members were demoted and offered other johs in the government. 
The power ofthe junta fell to two rightists, Duarte andJamie A. Gutier­rez, who became vice president in sole control of the military. Many people contend, however, tha the real power lies with Defense Minis· ter Garcia. 

Duarte is a member of the Chris· tian Democratics. He formed the party in El Salvador in 1962. The origins of the party trace back to post World War 2 Europe. It started in Germany and Italy, and then spread to Latin America. 
The party has progressively shifted to the right in El Salvador. In 
See DUARTE, page 3 
65-year-old chooses General Program 
By DAN LEDUC 
.VewsStaff 
Lawrence Lewis was dressed like any other student on campus -a Notre Dame jacket, khaki pants and hiking boots. l-Ie carried a spiral notebook that had mimeographed assignment sheets sticking out ofit. 
He transferred into Notre Dame's 
General Program of Liberal Studies 
la~t fall. Notre Dame accepted 60 
credits from Brooklyn Polytechnic 
Institute giving him junior status. 
But, there wa~ something a little un· 
usual about those credits -they 
dated from the 1930s. 
Larry Lewis is 65 years old. 
Lewis retired from the Port Aut· hority of New York and New jersey in 1979. He had served as manager of tunnels, responsible for the Hoi­land and Lincoln tunnels. 

After 39 years of work and ac· tivity, Lewis decided fishing and traveling weren't enough to keep him busy. "There was a serious con· cern on my wife's part," he added, "that I had been so active that just quitting and going fishing wouldn't be enough." 
To keep busy, he tried work as a consultant. "But I began to realize two things, if I was going to stay at it I was going to have to work at it steady. The second thing that oc· curred to me was that if I did it steady, then, in essence, it didn't make any sense to retire. 
"I started to look at what would be a transitional device, and it came to me that possibly schooling would be 
See LEWIS, page 5 
thousand. He attributed the downturn to the change in attitude of society which resulted from "eventssuch as VietNam, OPEC, and the Ayatollah. 
"I am however, more knowledgeable and pleased about the Peace Corps now, than in 1960." 
Shriver stated that in foriegn policy too much emphasis is placed on a strong military and having third-world governments on "our side." 
"We must concentrate on preventing war. It has been sug· gested that a program be organized utilizing Peace Corps alumnae, I propose that this project begin with a pursuit in our homeland by protesting nuclear war. 
Also present at the address were Richard Celeste, Former Director of the Peace Corps, Loret Miller Ruppe, Peace Corps Director Designate, Rev. Theodore Hesburgh C.S.C., and Walter Langford, Former Chilean Training Director. 
In the welcoming address former director Celes1e said, "this is a time to reflect where we've bet·n, and to look down the road to where we ought to be going. What this nation needs is something more than military strength, the Peace Corps offers this." 
Events marking the anniversary will continue today with a 2 p.m. lecture at the Center for Continuing Education entitled, "A Look at Chile Then and Now," a 3:45p.m. address, "The Challenges of the 80's," by Ms. Ruppe, and a 5 p.m. Mass for the memory of deceased Peace Corps volunteers in the Library Lounge. 

Lobkowicz Kollek Waldbetm 
Honorary degrees for W aldheim and others 
Dr. Kurt Waldheim, secretary general of the lJnited Nations since 
january 1972, will be among those receiving honorary degrees from 
the University of Notre Dame at the University's I36th Commence· 
ment Exercises, May I 7. 
Previously announced as commencement speaker is President 
Ronald W. Reagan who will receive an honorary doctor oflaws degree 
from the University. 
Waldheim was born in 1918 in a small town near Vienna and 
graduated from the University of Vienna in 1944 as a Doctor of 
jurisprudence. He then joined his country's diplomatic service, hold· 
ing postlons as director general of political affairs in the Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs, head of the Political-Department West, and federal 
minister ofForeign Affairs. He was Austria's permanent representative 
to the lJ. N. from 1964 to 1968 and from 1970 to 1971. 
As lJ. N. secretary general, Waldheim ha~ addressed crises such as 
civil strife in Northern Ireland, the entry of the People's Repuhlic of 
China into the U. N., the conflict between South Africa and Namibia, 
the Middle East entanglement, and the threat to the minoril)" Bihari 
population in Bangladesh. 
Others receiving degrees are: 

Alden W. Clausen, a long-time executive with Bank ofAmerica, who 
last fall became president of the World Bank which is chargcd with 
making development loans to have-not nations. Clauscn joincd Bank 
of America in 1949, held a series of vice prt·sidential post ions, and 
became president and chiefexecutive officer In 1970 -a post he held 
until his appointment to the World Bank last fall. 
Rene ). Dubos, a distinguished microhiologist and experimental 
pathologist, won worldwide fame as the discoverer of the tirst com· 
mercially produced antibiotic. A humanist and environmentalist a~ 
well as a scientist, Dubos has written more than two dozen hooks, 
includingSo Human an Animal which won a Pulitzer Prize in 1969. 
Teddy Kollek has been mayor ofJerusalem since 1965. Prior to that 
Kollek had been an Israeli minister to the United States and a ranking 
official in Premier David Ben Gurion's government. He is co-author of 
several books on Jerusalem, includingjernsalem: City ofMandklnd 
and Pilgrims to the Holy Land. His adroit handling of tht· Christian, 
jewish and Islamic cultures in the Holy City ha~ carned him wide 
pr11ise. 
Nicholas l.ohkowicz, a former Notre Dame a~sociate profe.~sor of 
philosophy, is the president ofthe lJniversity of Munich. He joined the 
faculty there in 1967, and served as professor, rector, and dean of the 
School ofArts and Letters before assuming the presidency in 1976. An 
expert on 1\iarxism, he ha~ published numerous articles and books on 
philosophy, ethics and political thought. 
Pat O'Brien has starred in I I 0 motion pictures, most notably as 
Knute Rockne in the 1940 Warner Bros. film Knute Rockne-All 
See DEGREES, page 3 

Wednesday, March 25, 1981 -page 2
NewsBriep
c===~========*=================================~
by The Observer and The Associated Press 

Robert E. White,former U.S. Ambassador to El Salvador will deliver a lecture tomorrow on "The Crisis in El Salvador and 
All My Administrators 
American Foreign Policy" at Saint Mary's College. As a career foreign 

service officer, White has served as the U.S. Ambassador to Paraguay from 1977-80, and as deputy U.S. permanent representative to the Organization of American States from 1975-77. White also served with the Peace Corps as director for Latin America from 1968-70. This service was followed by tours as deputy chiefof Mission in Managua from 1970-72 and Bogota from 1972-75. White entered the Foreign Service in 1955 and his early service included assignments to the United Nations, Hong Kong, Canada, Ecuador, Dominican Republic and Central America. He served the U.S. Navy for two years and, after receiving a bachelor's degree from St. Michael's college in Winooski, Vt., he studied in England on a Fulbright scholarship. White holds •: master's degree from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy. ­
The Observer 

President Reagan gave a key national security job to Vice President George ,Bush on Tuesday despite complaints by Secretary of State Alexander M. Haig Jr. Only .hours after Haig exprs:ssed his dissatisfaction on Capitol Hill, Reagan named Bush the chairman of a "crisis management team" to coordinate the govern­ment's response to foreign and domestic emergencies. The president said his decision ··was guided in large measure by the fact that manage­ment ofcrises has traditionally and approprately been done within the White House." White House press secretaryJames S. Brady, who ear­lier in the day indicated that no decision would be made until later in the week, hurriedly summoned reporters back to the White House Tuesday evening to make the announcement. He said that in any emergency, Reagan "would ofcourse be available to make all critical decisions and to chair the crisis management teams where his presence may be needed. Asked if Haig was unhappy to the point of 
threatening to resign about the decision, Brady said, "Haig is on 
board." -AP 
The United Mine Workers' bargaining council 

pondered a new three-year coal pact yesterday amid signals that the union's leadership might sidestep a proud "no-contract, no-work" tradition to avert a nationwide strike set for Friday. The UMW's 39­member bargaining council convened to vote upon the proposed settlement reached a day earlier by union negotiators and representatives ofthe Bituminous Coal Operators Association. By ear­ly evening, there was no word on what the decision would be. Union president Sam Church was expected to approach the leadership with the possibility of seeking an extension of the current pact, which expires at 12:01 a.m. EST friday, in order to keep 160,000 UMW mem­bers on the job during the 9 or 10 day ratification process. Only during World War II, when the nation was critically in need of coal, have 
unon miners worked after their contract expired. -AP 
The Reagan administration,already pushing to 

eliminate most passenger rail service across the country, said yester­day it wants to dismantle the Northeast's major rail freight carrier immediately. The Transportation Department told Congress it wants to sell the most lucrative elements of the 16-state Conrail system to private railroads. And it urged lawmakers to cut off any federal sub­sidies for the line, which also serves portions ofthe Midwest, after this fiscal year. In addition to its freight lines, Conrail operates commuter trains, carrying 50!>,000 persons a day, primarily into New York City and Philadelphia. There is widespread agreement that the commuter service, which itself loses money, should be turned over to local tran­sit agencies, whether or not the parent line survives. But rail industry sources said if Conrail's freight lines were put up for sale, the govern­ment would not find a buyer unless it first resolved major labor problems plaguing the railroad, including costly job protection clauses costing hundreds ofmillions ofdollars. -AP 
Communist Poland's top labor negotiator 
warned Tuesday of economic chaos and civil war unless Solidarity 
moderates its demands, but angry union officials scheduled a 
nationwide warning strike for Friday. Solidarity, seeking the firing of 
officials it blames for the beatings of union members, voted a four­
hour warning strike for Friday and a general strike next Tuesday. Miec­
zyslaw Rakowski. deputy premier in charge of union affairs, accused 
the independent union's leaders of trying to become the "new 
owners" of this Warsaw Pact nation, where Soviet-led maneuvers are 
under way. Rakowski issued the challenge as he prepared for criticial 
negotiations with Solidarity leader Lech Walesa in hopes of averting 
new strikes. "Now is not the time to cry. There'll be enough time to 
cr~: later." Walcsa told the commission members. It was an appeal for 
un1ty on the eve of talks with Rakowski Wednesday in which he will 
demand the firing of officials responsible for police bc::ating union ac­
tivists in Bydgoszcz. -AP 
A special prosecutor said yesterday he can find no 
evidence to support allegations that Tim Kraft, one-time campaign 
manager to former President Carter, used cocaine on two occasions. 
The prosecutor said he will recommend that the investigation be 
ended. The allegations, in the final two months of the campaign last 
year, caused Kraft to resign his post. He issued a statement Tuesday 
denouncing the charges as "mischievous and meritless" and said he 
hopes someone will look into the sums spent by the government in its 
prohe. The disclosure that the investigation is ended was made in 
papers filed with US. District Judge Barrington D. Parker, who is 
presiding over a Kraft suit challenging the authority of special 
prosecutor Gerald j. Gallinghouse to conduct his investigation. In a 
joint motion, Gallinghouse and Kraft told Parker that "credible 
evidence pertaining to the allegations...does not warrant any criminal 
charge against plaintiff( Kraft) or merit any further investigation ofthe 
allegations against him." Parker signed an order late Tuesday dismiss­
ing the Kraft suit against Gallinghouse. -AP 
Sunny and mild today with highs i;the upper sos and lower 60s. Mostly cloudy tonight with a 20 percent chance of showers. Cloudy tomorrow with a low in the mid 30s. High tomorrow near60. -AP 

Ted: Have some coffee boys. Now before !leave for El Salvador, we've got to get this housing situation cleared up. 
john: Well, we've got 125 women moving in next fall. 
We've got to keep those tuition revenues coming in. 
But you know, things are a little crowded. There just 
aren't enough rooms on campus. 
Michael: Well, I can lottery offabout 300 men. That'll 
give us· a lot more room. 
john: Oh, the woman will accuse us ofbeing sexists. 
Ted: No, the women know that there is crime across the country, so ofcourse, there is crime in South Bend. They wouldn't want to go off. 
john: Well, we still have the problem of the two empty floors in the new dorm. We can't leave those rooms empty. Many a dollar would be down the tube. 
Ted: Well we can't put the 300 guys in there. You know all their Chrisian ethics and Catholic upbringings would be thrown out the window. It's much better to send them off campus and let them learn about urban sociological problems. Besides, the alums wouldn't like it if we moved the guys in the gals' dorms. I was having dinner with Popejohn last week, and over pasta, he said that he is so proud ofNotre Dame. We're the only Cat­holic institution left without 
coed dorms. 
john: Gosh, maybe he'll give us a papal medal or something. That would be good p.r. for us. We could display it in the alumni office 
-and show it off, get more donations. But we've got to fill the gals' dorm somehow. Ifwe don't fill it, we will not make, er, lose a lot ofmoney. But you're right We can't put men there. That would not make us as marketable to the conservative parents. Ted: Well, I was having lunch with Mayor Byrne the other day, and she told me r -while she was ordering her asparagus tails -that she is going to move into one of Chicago's worst housing projects to get a firsthand view of crime. And just think of all the respect and admiration she'll get. This gives me a thought. Maybe we could rent out the empty P-E rooms to faculty to encourage them to get a firsthand view academic life at Notre Dame. john: Oh, that would be so nice for the catalogut. 

Think how the high school kids would buy that kind of 
student/~~ulty interaction. We could probably even Observer notes 
up the tultlon more than 12 percent and still be able to fill the place three times over. 
Michael: But how are we going to get the faculty to agree to it? We might have a slight problem getting them to sell their houses and move into the dorms. You know they all can be so demanding. 
Ted: We'll just stress that faculty who reside on campus will get priorty in getting tenured. And the tenured professors will have to live in the dorm. Ifthey don't, we'll withdraw tenure. 
john: Heh, heh. They all complain about the tenure; your're right Ted. That's they way to get 'em. But I don't 
Fr --------·-·
------------·--1 
___The_Obseryer___, 
Design Editor...................... Maura Murphy Design Assistants .............. Lisa Bontempo 
Elizabeth Clay Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor.............................. Lynne Daley Copy Editor............................ Valerie Evans Sports Copy Editors .............. Gary Grassey 
Dave Dziedzic Typist ............................... Michelle Kelleher Systems Control ..................... Marty Hynes ND Day Editor ...................... Molly Woulfe Ad Design ........................................... Woody Pbotograpber ....................... Rachel Blount Guest Appearances ......................... No Doz 
In Like Flint 
Tho Observer (USPS 598 9?.0) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Obaervar is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The Observer. P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
think we could withdraw tenure. 
Ted: Sure we can. We'll just set a University prece­dent. I was having breakfast a cOuple of days ago with my dear friend Warren Burger, and of course, it's his occupation to set precedents. He could advise us. 
Michael: Well then I've got it!! We can then take the faculty houses and rent them to the 300 students. Ted: Great, great. And since we're not talking campus housing-­
john: We don't have charge them dorm rates. And we can also charge the faculty regular rates for living in the dorms since they're not students. 
Michael: And those professors will keep the kids in line. It will be a good education for them. john: And we don't have 
to worry about not making, er losing, all the money from the vacant rooms. 
Ted: And the alumni will love it. You know we will be the first in the country to have the professors live with the students in the dorms. And just think how we can sell the lottery as an educa­tion in itself. Those kids will be so well-versed in combat-" ting urban crime. Even Har­vard and Yale don't have anything like this. Another first for us. 

john: Yes, it's important to keep those alums happy. f.~· And with all the money, 
they'll donate, we can build more faculty/student dorms. Maybe we could even name one Cabrini-Hesburgh with you retiring and all. 
Ted: Oh, I am so touched. Well boys, I'm so glad we got this whole thing settled so easily. You know, I can't understand why the students cause such a commotion over this housing thing. Sometimes they just don't see how obvious some solutions really are. 
·------­

Have you witnessed a crime which should be reported? Do you have newsworthy information which might turn into an important article? Is there something we should be covering? Ifso, call The Ob­server news department and let us know. We welcome any and all contributions from our readers -call283-747l, 8661, or 1715, 24 hours a day, Sun­day through Thursday. All sources are guaranteed confidentiality. 
~----------------------------~ 
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY SUMMER SESSIONS 
HOME Interpretation and Translation Institute Government/Business/Sociology internships Language courses English as a Foreign Language Writers Conference Washington Laboratory CoUege Preparation Over 200 graduate and undergraduate courses 
Sessions: Pre-May 18-June 12 First Session-June 8-July lO Eight-week Cross Session-June 8-July 31 Six-week Cross Session-June 22-July 31 Second Session-July 13-August 14 
ABROAD Dijon, France -French Leningrad, U.S.S.R.-Russian Oxford, England -Business Administration Quito, Ecuador -Spanish Fiesole, Italy -Italian Trier, West Germany-German Italy, Christian Archeology Fieldtrip Spain, Writers Conference 


SEND MORE INFORMATION 
N~e------------------------------------------
Admess_____________________________________ 
---------------------------ZIP ----------­
Mail to: SSCE Georgetown University Washington, D.C. 20057 2 6 
or call: (202) 625-3006 

~town Uniwrsity is an eqwlOf1/1(Ntllllitylqf]imllltiw action institution in ~mployment ant!admissions. 2 6 

The Observer Wednesday, March 25, 1981 -page 3 




StaffReporter 
Thirteen 
tht· palachians. From der the 
continuedfrom page 1 
1970 and 191-10, the party split and the ldtist wing of the party withdrew. Each time, it was the more progressive wing of the party that withdrew. The splits have servt·d to undermine the broad sup­port the party and Duarte once t•njoyt·d. 
In 1972, Duarte had the support of the Christian Democrats the So­cial Dcmanats, and the Communist P;trty, which at that time was using propt·r electoral procedures to gain support. When Duarte became president he still had their support, hut they soon withdrew that sup­port. 
Guillnmo lingo, who was Duarte's running mate in 1972, has since split from the Christian Democrats and now is the head of tht· Dcmo<.·ratic Revolutionary Front ( FDR ), tht· lt-ading leftist coalition in Iii Salvador. Ungo has said of Duarte that ht• is "merely a puppet of the llnitcd States." 
The FDR's three major factions arc the Communost Party, dissident Christian Democrats, and Social Democrats. This group started to form after the military rigged the election of 1977. 
Duarte has broken up the "Big 14", as they arc called in the <.·ountry. The Fourtcnn Families, 
.. .Degrees 
nmtlnuetlfrom page 1 
American whose cast included 
Ronal<l Rt·agan as fame<l halthack 
<rt·orgt· (;ipp. Winner of two Em my 
Awar<ls for his tdevision at:ting and 
a star on the stagt· as well as scrct•n , 
O'Brif:n's most recent lllm is 
Ragtime, a Dino tic Laurcntis 
production whit"h also stars James 
Cagney, an actor who share<l the 
snccn with O'Brien in numerous 
war movit·s. 
Allen S. Rupley, a <lircctor ofW. R. (iracc & Company, has serve<l Grace & Co. in various capacities since 1917. In February 1966, he wao; elc<.·ted chairman of the hoard. Al­thou~o:h he retired from this position in 1971, he still serves as director of the company, advisor to th{· presi­dent, and as a member of various 
committees. Rupley is also president of Grace Foundation, Inc., and a <lirc<.'tor ofGraet.· Institute. 
Barbara Tuchman's thir<l book, The Guns ofAugust won for her a Pulitzer Prize in 1963. Since then the book, about the early months of World War I, ha~ been translated in­to 14 languages. An historian, Mrs. Tuchman also wrote Stillu•ell and the American Experience in China, 
which earned her a secound Pulitzer in 1972. Her most recent work, A DistantMirror, which was about life in the 14th Century, sold almost 600,000 copies in its first year. 
University officals said there may ht: a few additions to the list before Commencement. 
.Duarte 
who actuallly arc 50 to 60 families, owned 60 percent ofall the farmable land in El Salvador. The estates of these families have been turned into cooperatives. The government had promised to pay back these families, hut this has not been done. This was the first stage of Duarte's three stage agrarian program. The second phase has not been able to be imple­mented. 
Duarte has also nationalized the sugar, coffee, and cotton trade and has taken over 5 I percent of the hank stocks. 
The third stage of Duarte's agrarian program is called the "Land to the Tiller" stage, and it is supposed to be a classical agrarian reform. The government has divided the smaller plots ofland and given it to fam ilics. 
The main problem facing Duarte in his agrarian reform is the lack of land an<l the overabundance of people. El Salvador comprises 4 per­cent ofthe land mass and 21 percent of the population of Central America. 
The leftists arc against the reform program because it gives support to the junta. According to ex­ambassador Robert White, the reform has undermined the leftists. The leftists have responded by raiding the affected farms and shoot­ing at the farmers. 
Duarte, in or<ler to institute the reforms, has had to declare a state of siege. To enforce the reform, order must be implemented. However, Duarte has little control over military and security forces, and this 
has  retarded  the  progress  of the  
reform.  
The  "Fourteen  Families"  exiled  

themselves to Miami, where they are believed to he financing right wing 

operations which include coup at­tempts. 
During the last year, several right wing coup attempts have been aborted. Two of the attempts were personally aborted l)y the U.S. am­
]>assodor Robert White. Reagan has withdrawn White from El Salvador claiming that he had become too in­volved in the country's internal af­fairs. 
Financial an<l military aid by the United States has increased, raising speculation that another VietNam is on the horizon. It has been spec­ulated that the leftists have Russian backing. It is hoped, however, that 
· the aid will allow Duarte's programs to be carried out and not that an in­crease in the violence will occur. 
The violence in the country has claimed I 5,000 lives in the past I 5 months. The war between the left­ists and the military is escalating. The United States now has over 50 military advisors in the country and is also sending arms. Military aid may he increased to $35 million from the present $10 million. The administra­tion may be attempting to deal with the situation in a military manner. 
Economic aid may increase SIOO,OOO from its present $63.5 mil­lion. Duarte's success is dependent on this economic aid. 
Duarte was three times elected mayor of San Salvador and is con­si<lcred to be El Salvador's most in­fluential politician. He was first elected mayor in 1964. Fr. Robert Pelton, who has met with Duarte, describes him as being a man of "personal principle." He also stated that Duarte is not a wealthy man. He lives· in a borrowed house and did not have enough money to send his children to school in the United States. 
Applications for the 1981-82 
Student Government Cabinet Positions will be made available starting 
March 24 at the Student Government Offices 
on the second floor of Lafortune. 
Must be returned by March 31 ... 
-
Spring Concert 
NOTRE DAME CONCERT BAND 
THURS· -MARCH 26th -A.C.C. Uniuersity of Notre Dame Admission free 8:15pm 
• 
~, 


r 
' 

E.J. Rib House 

Experienced, dependible, borbeque specialists 
Open Aprillst 
8:00pm 1338 Lincolnway West 

Deliveries: 24 hour service 7 days a week 
Don't walk-talk... 
:J 

We are as near to you as your phone 
289-7021 289-7022 
·­




Editorials 
What purpose of someone a commencement sp¢Qlt~t! It snould extraordin3ry service or achiey~ment, but should be. t() honor accomplishments made in the tion wf!icb is l>estowing the award; For •"'"·'""""u'"· Hesburgh's invitation to Ronald ~eagan to .,:eremonies in May. 

•...•. ·.·Accp~4t~g lp f~;· .~;~c::~""''M· 
up~plds the ideals conflict with those wondering how appropriate ids ·· tion. 
One of the most glaring conflicts if!VOIVes stance toward the country of El Salvador, On Mc•na<lY.• students marched through the Catholkchurch has a gov.~rn~¢~t~eHeve~ and n•U:tiveSalv~dorans. and others have condemned thiet:tuatrte 
rights violations while attem . ·.• ·. alist .<relfOJtms•... Reagan is sending more weapons and advisers to regime. Hesburgh's invitation is a tacit endorsement policies. 
There are other conflicts Reagan ifot~ght a messy 

proposalsto cut back state dent he ptoposes budget . . . which we believe will benefit wealthy much needy, and a reduction in Customs'imd Immigrations . even tl!ough Fr. Hesburgh's recently completed report to 'Congress called for increases in this service. On one important moral issue, abortion, Reagan's campaign call for a constitutional amendment banning it is right in llne with the Pope's recently reiterated stand, yet,ironically, Fr. Hesburgh isnotqgmpletely in at · Reagan here either. .... 
The ideas expressed here arern(lt dent. We know where Ronald Reagan stands on issues. and we respect that, even ifwe did not endorseit .ovem­ber. We also know where the University stands, and tbatis where the questions and conflicts arise. . .··.. . 
Why was Ronald Reagan invited to speak at graduation? He w11l become the fifth pre$ident to receive an honorary · · Notre Dame simplyhonor every as.cen~~ntto the White of ideological background? Wtn(li!'l?i the .....· • now an achievement whichm'erely signifie · wealthy and had little else todobutcampaign for · 
Ronald Reagan gained his wealth and celebrity ·.. . a televi­sion and movie actor, not for anyoutstanding service to his church or country. and this helped enable him to become president. Bring­ing fellow actor Pat 0' Brien in for adegree is only a further reminder of Reagan's non-noteworthy past. O'Brien is best temetnbered,for his portrayal of countless Irish Catholic priests in }l~movi¢$ofltmg ago, and ho,noring him at comll'I~IH;ementseemstC!J.I$ .rr.~~ore 
than a publicity stunt. ····· '!i;> · 
The Observer does not oppose bringing in proponents of differing ideological viewpoints. but graduation is not the time for such a forum. The last president to speak at commencement, Jimmy Car­ter, used the opportunity not to address the graduates but to make a political speech: Many are expecting Reagan to do the same. But that also is not the purpose ofa graduation speaker. Merely because he is a man of prestige is not. reason enough to award the president a degree. UN Secretary General Kurt Waldheim, an outspoken adv7 ocate ofhuman rights (a priority dropped by the Reagan administra­tion, but embraced by Carter and Fr. Hesburgh), has already been invited as another honorary degree recipient, and we feel t~at he would be a preferable commencement speaker to Ronald Reagan. 

Doonesbury 

P/HfTHCI< 7Hf U.5. MEANT 70 /A/IN 7H& VIeTNAM /AIM OR. AOT, 70/lAYH/?£IS GROW/1-13 PR£95(}1?& 7lJRNIJA fAIJI< fA/£ CAN /A/IN U.$. S!l<ATE61STA8&/£V!N 
ITPIA5NT&45Y.IJ/5P 8E£NLOOKING FOR. APLAC£ 7lJ ORA/I./ lH£ IJN& rut<. j11XiC1',;1, 8iiT THE.R& J!JSTUB<8I!: ON lH£ fflJNTf7111£. FINALLY, 
IN !<'£9CAROf HIT ON&L. 

Wednesday, March 25, 1981-page 4 
P.O. BoxQ 
~------------------~ 

Judy's death: another vieW" 
Dear Editor: feeling of hopeless anger that it once one has been stained On March 13, The Observer 
brings. ~ by violence, one can never return published an article by Daniel Last May, as I gobbled down a to idealism. I have pity on the Bell, titled "Rights To All Life?" . quick breakfast before work, I families of the mutilated victims The article was a poignant and first heard the news on the radio. that were once living beings. emotional story of the small group A personal friend, actor, have pity on the rape victims who of protesters who prayed for musician, artist, and USC-bound will forever be psychologically Steven Judy outside the Indiana high school senior, was gunned stained and haunted by their past prison where he was down outside his home in -the living victims. Steven electrocuted. I am appreciative of Queens, NY. His name was Judy's sentence was far more Mr. Bell's views on the subject, Steven Zwickert and for three merciful compared to the death but I feel that l deserve equal days the cold metropolis stood sentences that he passed on to his time. still and watched his family and helpless victims. 
I live in a little town called New friends gather for his funeral. York City' and have had violent I envy the strength of Mr. Bell's Garrett R. Frakes crime touch my life. I know the Christian views, but Fisher Hall 
Fedprogramspay dividends 
Colman McCarthy 
In the mid-1960s, when every­thing liberal seemed to come up roses and programs like Job Corps, Head Start, Foster Grandparents, Legal Services and V 1ST A blosssomed like springtime itself, it was accepted that these were liberal programs. 
Liberals like Sargent Shriver at the old Office of Economic Op­portunity created them. Other liberals-Joseph Califano in the Lyndon Johnson White House­lobbied for them, and liberals in Congress funded them. 
That analysis was simplistic. A number of people knew better, expecially Shriver. These are programs, he argued, that have a built-in appeal for conservative Republicans who want to go beyond ideology: Money is thrown at problems, all right, but in a few years the money gets thrown back, sometimes double or triple the cost. In addition, the programs have minimal federal involvement. 
Time has proven Shriver to be uncannily accurate. A few days ago, Sen. Orrin Hatch, the Utah conservative who is the new chairman of the Senate Commit­tee on Labor and Human Resources, sounded like the up­beat Shriver of old in defending the Job Corps. Don't dare tamper with the Job Corps, Hatch warned his soulmates in the Reagan administration: "Here at last... is a government job training 

program that provides jobs and saves more doll'ars than it ex­pends...The Job Corps has been a leader in synthesizing methods and materials to educate and train the most hardcore disad­vantaged." 
In a throwback of its own to the 1960s, the Reagan budget trim­mers, as they were about to knife into the Job Corps, repeated an argument Richard Nixon used in his 1968 campaign: that it costs more to put someone through the Job Corps than Harvard. Hatch said this was ridiculous. He told a reporter that'·' we're talking about functionally illiterate kids who stand no chance whatsoever of going to Harvard, or any other university for that matter. We're talking about saving kids from a lifetime on the public dole." 
That was the liberal sentiment 16 years ago, except that Hatch the conservative speaks with even greater authority today. He has visited established Job Corp~ centers. He has read the perfor­mance studies, which have been positive. 
With Hatch proclaiming that the "public investment in the Job Corps is economically efficient," the Office of Management and Budget has changed its mind, and will leave the program intact. 
If a few field trips to Job Corps ~:enters impressed Sen. Hatch, the same approach led Nancy Reagan to become an advocate of 
Garry Trudeau 

ANO THe RIJS-a/lfU, NO, 7H&Y SIANSAGR££0 V/AN!t!J 50'rftPfl51AN 
MTH YO/JR (j{jtfSTAll, 8iiTJf/f 
CHOICe? Ma/RRlJTrox/N. 
7:~-==p----~-~~,~~-~rhe QbserY-er=-==---. 
l ~r 4 · 56

Bo;-.:Q, NotreDame, Jv 65. The Ub•erz:er 'S an independent newspaper publIShed by t he student" ')f t he
1 d 1 
Universt:y of~~om· Dame du L1c and Sain! ~-f~ry's Colle~e. ~hoes not necessan ~ reflec <:e policies •Jf the administration ot el! cdr msntunon. e nehws IS reportfe 
as au.urarelv1 and as •Jbjectrvely as poss1ble. E Itona1s represenc t e opmton o a
d ~ . · · d I h 
majorit:,' vf the Ediroria1 Boar, ..~...-omm e~\anes, llptmobs, an f ~ners are t e v1ewd of their aurhors. Colufmn space IS ll:vat1 a e co a mehm ershol t e c~mmunny, and
rhe free expr-:ssion o varying opm1ons on campus, t roug etters, IS encourage . 
Editor-in-Chief......................................... o 
T J ckman

ManaglngEditor ...................................... om a
L Dal

Executive News Editor .............................. 
ynne ey

NewsEditor.............................................TimVercellotti 
News Editor..................................................John Higgins c h 
Senior Copy Editor ........................Mary Fran 11
aaan 

SportsEditor.............................................. Beth Huffman FeaturesEdltor..........................................RickHermida 
Foster Grandparents. The program, in which low-income el­derly citizens work 20 hours a week caring for children who may be handicapped or retarded, operates in more than 200 sites. With Mrs. Reagan's enthusiasm -her involvement goes as far back as 1967 in Sacramento and as recently as a trip a few days ago to a center in Prince George's County, Md. -the program's budget is to be increased next 
year. 
Head Start is also safe. In fact. so many politicians have come to know its excellence that it was one of the Reagan administra­tion's "safe seven" programs. 
But what of all the others that aren't safe? Are they to be cut or abolished merely because no Or­rin Hatch or Nancy Reagan has kindly regards for them? Are we to have a policy of pet programs? 
If Legal Services, VISTA, and similar poverty programs now operated by the Community Services Administration are un­der attack and with no patron with clout to protect them, then we are back to the simplism that prevailed when the programs began in the mid-60s: They arc the creations of liberals. This being an administration of con­servatives, ideologey <;~lone isju tification to hatter them. 
If anything, officials of most of the threatened poverty programs have strained to be apolitical. 


They understood that to be even suspected of leftish leanings creates useless trouble. 
Enter David Stockman, a teen­ager when legislation establishing many of these .programs was passed. Neither he nor Reagan has offered detailed evidence that the poverty programs aren't working or are wasting money, that the need has vanished. 
Is it to be imagined that con­gressional appropriations or over­sight committees have been fooled all these years? Or that conservatives like Hatch, as wary as anyone about do-gooders and turf-protecting bureaucrats, have let their guard down? 

L;.. ~~=-~;··~....;·.r-~
... ·::·=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Editorial BoarJ~::ra~:~::x:::::,~:.~.~~::Agnescuey
. 

Business Manager ....................................Rich Coppola Controller........................................................)oe Mulflur Advertising Manager ......................................Mark Ellis Production Manager ...................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Ctrt;ulation Manager ........................Tom MacLennan 
•
The Observer •--. --~----------· :==...:7.-::J:Xc::-====================== 
~~c:llC3L~===========================W=e=d=n=es=d=ay=,=M=~;=ch==25=,=1=9=8=l===pa=g=e~5
Campus
Molarity Michael Molinelli 

The Daily Crossword 
©1981 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
LENTEN PENANCE SERVICE 
Sacred Heart Church Wednesday , March 25 
JO pm 

Presiding: Sr. Judith Ann BeattieI esc 
Homily: Fr. Dan Jenky, CSC 
an 
Confessions Following 
ACROSS 27 Thlmo•e­53 Soft drink 12 "Of-and 1 Singer Joan rlgger's drug the River'' 5 Monk cousin 54 Gives the 16 Approxl· 8 Plepart 30 Overjumps hlghslgn mated: abbr. 
13 Brutish one 35 Volcanic 56 Honed 21 Symbol 14 Highball National 59 Mermaid 22 Beery and In tennis Park medium Webster 15 Indiana 37 Wise blrd's 64 Marlon 26 "Spare the city question 66 Halloween rod,-the 
17 Faulty 38 Pusher mammal child" faucet catcher 67 Traditional 27 Turned feature 39 Vessel knowhow 28 Speed 
18 Diplomat: letters 68 Watch 29 Indian 
abbr. 40 Agent of crystal state 19 Dialects vengeance rims 31 Pitchers 20 Upper-class 43 Abundance 69 Whopper 32 Watering boaters 44 Relative 70 Singer holes 23 Musical of etc. Home 33 Lakesor 
group 46 Foreach 71 Moves Plains 24 Harness 47 Hereditary laboriously 34 Llkeflsh 25 Skagerrak 49 Coffee cup 72 Bark up the 36 Katmandu's 
city 52 Unpleasant wrong tree country 73 Rlverln 41 Tablelands Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: France 42 Tendon 
45 Compared 

DOWN 48 Through 1 Physique the nose 2 Taj Mahal 50 Saunter city 51 Pastry 3 Sevareid 55 Complete 4 Light 56 Lowtlde 
breezes 57 Limned 5 Bottle 58 Israeli 6 Desert Fox seaport 7 Clergyman 60 Competent 8 901 61 -the line 9 Nureyev 62 Sea bird 
10 Homed 63 Tag end mount 65 WWII spy 11 Highlander agcy. 

Freshmen 
1982 Sophomore Literary 
Chairman &Executiue 
Committee 
Apply at Student Union 2nd floor LaFortune 
DEADLINE: April 2 
Open to students of all majors 
•12 p.m. -film; juvenile court,  
part one, law school lounge.  
•12: 15 p.m. -lenten mass;  
lather griffin, Iafortune rathskel­ 
ler, all welcome.  '.  
•7 p.m. -speci~ presentation  ;  
for juniors; paul reynolds from  
the placement hureau, hayes­ 
healy auditorium.  
•7 p.m. -film; juvenile court,  
part two, room 11 5 law school.  
•7 p.m. -film; city lights  
( 1930), ets theatre, s I admis­ 
sion.  
•7, 9, 11 p.m. -film; "julia,"  
engr. audi!<>rium, S 1 admission.  
•7:30 p.m. -lecture; faith and  
feminism, sistt:r mary luke lObin,  
s.l., director of the thomas mer·  
ton center for creative exchange,  
carroll hall ( smc).  
•7:30 p.m. forum on  
jerusalem; prof. alan dowry and  
haig kalblan, cavanaugh hall  
study lounge.  
•8 p.m. -concert, elizabethan  
trio, annenberg auditorium, free.  

. Lewis 

continuedfrompage I 
it. It might open the way 10 a second interest or career -possibly some­thing helpful in the voluntary field. For instance, helping people run an organization on the business side." 
Choosing a university wasn't dif­ficult for Lewis. As he puts il, he has a "real family connection" with Notre Dame. His youngest daughter, Sharon, is doing graduate work In Engli~h here and Sharon's husband is Dr. William Leahy in the Economics Department. Lewis' two sons arc Notre Dame graduates and his grandson, Bill, graduated last year. Two of his granddaughtt•rs, Kelly 
and  Erin  Leahy,  live  in  Brcen­ 
Phillips.  
Kelly,  a  junior,  had' hoped  her  

grandfather would increase . his present load of three <:lasses so he could graduate with her next year. "It would be neat 10 have a double­graduation party," she said. 
But Lewis said he wants 10 keep the number ofhis classes down so he can really enjoy tht·m. 
Lewis said he has gouen some teasing from his family about his grades. "When they were in school I always used to harp on the aspt·n if you were good t•nough 10 get in here, you were good enough 10 pull good gradt·s. Ofcourse now, I got an A and thrn· B's last semt·ster and their version of it is tht-re is no reason why if you're coming here. you can't gel good gradt·s and the~ ask why it wasn't t(HJr A's." 
Homework is something he hasn'r had to dt·al with in a long timt· hut lw said ht· is gelling used to it. "It's gt·l· ling to bt· easier, in the bq~inning it was a real test. I havt"n't dom· any real writing in a ''1anual sense In years. You gel an·ustornnl to having a secretary around and you dictate something and if it isn't the way you like it you dictate it over again. It took a little work 10 gel ust·d to il. I'm accustomed to it now hut it was a big difference. 
. A few weeks ago, Lewis was asked 
.. to participate in discussion for GP 
juniors and seniors on career oppor­
tunties. 
"I think I was more helpful to the ones who don't have 10 go to work or the ones who plan on getting a masters In business adminislralion," he said. 
"The business world puts a premlmum on the: aspects of a per­son having some business ex­perien.ce or background before they gel a masters," he continued. "This was the main point I was trying to put across 10 them." 

The Observer Wednesday, March 25, 1981-page 6 
Eastern success 

Lacrosse opens varsity play 
Notre Dame's lacrosse squad will take a 1-1 record against Purdue today at 4 p.m. on Cartier Field. The lacrosse team, in·its first year of var­sity competition, travels to the Uni­versity of Michigan on Saturday. 
"Considering the caliber of the competition we played," head coach Rich O'Leary said.-"I'd have to call our spring trip a success." 
The Irish defeated Radford Uni­versity, 17-5, before dropping a 13­12 overtime decision to Morgan State during spring break. Notre Dame also dropped a pair of exhibi­tion matches to Washington and Lee's junior varstiy squad and John Hopkins' junior unit. 

With just over one week left until '\ the start of Midwest Lacrosse As­i lsociation action. O'Leary has two 
more exhibition games to answer whatever questions still remain. 
The most importnt question O'Leary has faced this year is who will guard the Irish net. The most ob­vious answer appears to be senior tri-captain Tim Michels, who moved from his accustomed defense posi­Hon to the crease over three weeks ago. Michels notched 32 saves while allowing 1 7 goals in the two games last week for a .653 percentage. 
"Tim has shown outstanding im­provement so far," O'Leary said. "As of now, he is the best person we can put in goal." 
Even if the goalie question has gotten easier for O'Leary to answer, at east the choices have narrowed. Senior Bob Stewart and and sopho­more Bob lnfanger, two ofthe three goalies listed on the team's pre­season roster, were both injuried in practice and saw little if any action on the spring trip. With Michels the 
(Girl's Bookstore Basketball! SIGN-UPS 
First 32 teams 
Thursday night 7 -9 pm 
443 Lewis Hall 
5 girls per team 
NEW CHAUTAUQUA COFFEEHOUSE 
In the Ballroom of Lafortune 
This weekend: Blues Gteat Eddie Shaw 
with special guest stat 
Ellen fficllwaine 
famous female. vocalist 
Ftiday and Satutday 2 shows 
9:30 and ffiidnight 
admission Jl.OO at the door 


MATH-SCIENCE 
Ask a Peace Corps volunteer why she teaches math and general science to high school students in Liberia, West Africa ... Ask another volunteer why he teaches biology and physics in the Pacific Islands. They'll probably say t.hey want to help people, want to use their skills, travel, learn a new language or experience another culture. Ask them: 
Register Now at the Placement Bureau for Interview: 

April 7 & 8 or call 800-62 J...J670 


Young to the Eastern Regional final of the NCAA playoffs before bowing to Virginia 
"I was supposed to be in Dunedin (the Blue Jays' Florida training quar­ters) on Monday ifwe lost. But I got permission to delay it so I could receive this trophy and play in the all-star game Sunday during the NCAA finals in Philadelphia." 
Arare athlete who starred in three sports -baseball, basketball and football -in his Eugene, Ore., high school, the 6-foot-4 Ainge said after much deliberation he decided on the baseball course as a career al­though pro basketball probably of­fered a quicker early reward. 
"It was a decision I made with my wife, Michelle," he added. "I enjoy basketball but I prefer the leisurely pace of baseball. There is not all that pounding up and down the floor as in basketball. 
"I have to think my knees will last longer and I will have a longer career. 
"Besides, my wife said she wanted me to be able to play with my children when I get older." The 
Ainges,  who  were  college  sweet­ 
hearts,  have  a  15-month-old  
daughter, Ashlee.  

continuedfrom page 8 

reporter thought HE had the inside scoop, when in fact, no one did. In mid-October, Bill Gleason of the Chicago Sun Times called Faust. 
"Gerry, how old are you?" 
"Forty-five." 

How many kids do you have?" 
"Three." 
What are their names?" 

"Bill, why all the questions?" 
"Well Gerry, congratulaHons. You're the new football coach at Notre Dame." "That's news to me." "Well, I'm gonna run it in tomor­row's editions." 
"I wouldn't do that ifl were you." 
Well, Gleason ran the story, but Faust swore he still had not been contact~d. Perhaps FatherJoyce had made up his mind. Faust's had been made up for 20 years. But the twu apparently still had not gotten to­gether. · 
Applications for 
Assistant Treasurer Student Government must presendy be a sophomore and 
going into accounting 
pick up applications in the Treasurer's Office 2nd floor LaFortune 
applications due Friday, April 3 4:00pm 
• • .Faust 
A week later, the first call came. It was Father Joyce informing Faust that he was a candidate. One Sunday in November, they met on a neutral court -Indianapolis. "We talked for about two hours," Faust recalled. Then his tone started getting excited again. "That was the weekend of the first playoff game. We beat Princeton, '28-3. They were undefeated before they played us, 
but we beat 'em 14­regular season game and then again the following week. But anyway, I knew no more when Father and I finished talking than when we started. He just said he'd get back to me." 
The following week, Corrigan went to Cincinnati to t'alk with old what's-his-name. They talked for four hours. Two weeks later, the call came in. "What date was that," pon­dered Faust. "I guess I should remember that, huh? I remember it was the Monday after we beat Mas­sillon for the state title, 30-7." 
The date was November 24. The call was from Father Joyce. "This part of the story, I remember per­fectly. He said, 'In the name ofFather Hesburgh and the Universiy ofNotre Dame, we'd like to offer you the job ofhead..." 
Faust almost cut him off. "I said YES, YES!!! Father said he wanted me on the road within the hour, because they were going_ to announce it at four o'clock. I didn't even get a chance to tell the players before I 
left." 
From that day on, the name Gerry Faust bacame a household word. 
Tomorrow: Paul Mullaney looks at what Faust bas done since be took over. 



------~-------------------------------------------------~---------------------~-----------------------------------------------------~ 
~~(),.tSc~==~==i=~~~JS=S========~====================W=e=dn=e=sd=a=y,=M=M=c=h=2=5,=1=98=1=·==pa=g=e=7
by Tht' Ohurr•t•r and The AHulruted Prn.r 

The ND-SMC Sailing Clubis beginnning its spring season as host to the MCSA Icebreaker Regatta this weekend on St. Joe's Lake. Approximately twelve other universities will be represented. The regatta, which is the Sailing Club's major event ofthe year, will begin at 9 a.m. on Saturday and last until approxiately 3 p.m. on Sunday. Anyone who would like to come to the boathouse and watch the proceedings is welcome. Also, there will be a Regatta Prep Party for all old members and any prospective new members from 2 
p.m. to S p.m. at the boathouse on Thursday. The club's weekly meeting will also be held on Wednesday at 6:30p.m. in 203 O'Shag. 
lnterhall tennis registration deadline is approaching. Each dorm should enter a team consisting of four singles players and two doubles teams. Grad school tennis consists ofsingles competition only. The entry deadline is March 31. 
The ND-SMC Ultimate Frisbee club practice 
will be on Wednesday from 9-11 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility, followed by the club members' celebration. New members from Saint Mary's are encouraged. First game: Saturday at I p.m. on McCandless Field against Grand Valley State College. 
Interhall meetings for baseball, graduate softball and men's and women's softball and soccer, will be held this week. The softball meeting is scheduled for today at 4:30 p.m. The soccer meeting is tomorrow at 4: I 5 p.m., followed by graduate softball and baseball at 4:45 p.m. All meetings will be in the ACC auditorium and attendance is mandatory. 

OPEN MEN S SINGLES RACQUET­BALL Freedman (233-0973) v o·connor 
(4202) Lake (289-8163) v Desaulnoers (1655) Schaeffer (232-1687) v. Wolkas (1154) Reagan (8375) v. Phollips (1752) Korn (3479) v. Pacek (277-0485) Pozzato (3271) v. Meakin (1161) Guolfoyle (3553) v. Wocke (1685) Brown (3264) v Stolwyk (8891) lglar (233-7525) v Croke(234-2880) 
MEN'S DOUBLES RACQUETBALL Phollop (1752). Hovig (1747) v. Meakon. Campbell(1161) Brassard (232-2578). Onufrak (233­6891) v. Poneda (8718), Shank (8717) MIXED DOUBLES Rosenberger (277 6735). Rosenfoeld (287-2577) v. Welsh (1267). Welsh (1136) Margel (6372). Kahale (6827) v. Staab (7994). Schmitz (1670) Brov.n (3264), Desloge (7905) v. Larkner (3097), Powers (8546) Drancik (2909). Meakon (1161) v. Mos­kop(8143). Laugheom(3117) Horsch (6761 ). Tillotson (1757) v. Stefanok (7989), Harrell (287-2577) Boalek (4588). Butler (4579) v. Cer­venak (1C:92). Poerce (1424) 

• • .Racing 
continuedfrom page 8 ineligible without ever consulting 
which is something theQueen Marytheir own scrutineer. There's always 
has only recently been able to d~. 
early lead, with Reutemann closely pressure when you come up with 
Respectable business and political
following, as the racers snaked something innovative." 
leaders flock to be associated with it. 
through the streets of downtown Chapman's protests came to 
It is a showcase for the city's far­Long Beach. Jones had what he nought, however. John Bohrnholdt, 
reaching redevelopment plans, and termed a "dreadful start, and sat chairman of the stewards noted that 
an entertainment spectacle which back and waited as the leaders FIA rules only require the stewards 
eclipses the race it encompasses.battled. to determine an auto's legality, Andretti' teammate, Bruno "not...the specific points of il­
At about 8:30A.M. the morning of Giacomelli, suffered the only injury legality," a statement that mystified 
the race, Chris Pook pronounced his of the Formula One race when he nearly everyone. Chapman was then 
doom on the original nay-sayers of brushed two other cars in a hairpin. forced to race last year's Lotus 81. 
his pet project. He had the P.A. an­He retired to the pits with a slight The Lotus controversy is part ofa 
nouncer greet them with a hearty sprain of the wrist, and was treated larger Formula One power struggle "Nyeah, nyeah, nyeah." A young and released by medical technicians. between the French dominated FIA 
couple looked up at the sky as if to He reportedly spent the rest of the and FOCA, the constructors associa­
find the source of these words of race being comforted in his pain by tion. The two parties often do battle 
wisdom. She asked when the race three sympathetic blondes. about engine and body specifica­
was to start, but he was busy watch­Last year's winner, Nelson Piquet, tions, but luckily the skirmish at ing a bleached blonde in a gold joined Jones and Reutemann in the Long Beach was mild. Last year's 
metallic bikini hawking the races at winner's circle by placing a solid battles resulted in the ban on 
Ascot Park. And so the spectaclethird in his Parmalat Brabham. Pi­aerodynamic "skirts" which help went. quet rather unceremoniously hold the cars low to the ground, and sprayed Jones and Reutemann with the petty quarrels often resulted in Patrese was forced to drop ba<:k the victory champagne, interrupting such debacles as the post-race with fuel problems after being an attempted buss for Jones from elimination of the Spanish GP from passed by Reutemann and Jones, and Miss Toyota Grand Prix. Uones and championship points. soon retired from the race. Jones Reutemann cannot publicly imbibe To long time residents of Long passed his teammate on lap 32, alcohol due to the sponsorship of Beach, the unreality of the entire when Reutemann went "wide in the the Saudi Arabian national airline, spectacle overshadows the 'esses'. Jones never relinquished the Saudia.) microcosm of Fl racing. When lead for the rest ofthe 80 lap race. The sole note of controversy of LBGP president Chris Pook first the weekend was struck when II proposed the race to. various Long A good sign appeared for teams protested the new Team Beach city officials, their reaction American racers in the 4th and '5th Lotus entry, the Lotus 88. Despite was mostly disbelief, and in some place finishes of Americans Mario the protests of Lotus team leader, circles, laughter. The city had just Andretti and Eddie Cheevers. the irrepressible Colin Chapman, recently purchased the aging ocean Andretti provided some of the r.1ost the stewards of the race ruled the liner Queen Mary in a mad attempt exciting moments of the race as he car ineligible under FIA (Federation to gain national status away from the battled in his Alfa-Romco with Fer­lnternationale de I'Automobile) shadow of Los Angeles. City officials rari's Didier Pironi for 4th place. The rules. While the ineligibility were in no mood to further risk their turbo-charged Ferrari overcame the revolved around the dual suspen­jobs by isolating a major chunk of 12 cylinder Alfa in the straights, but sion system of the car, in which the the downtown area for an entire Andretti was able to take the posi­dnver and the engme float mdepen week. They had enough problems tion for good in the turns. dently of the body and the chassis, getting the city known jokingly as Andretti's charge from 7th to 4th the specific rule violation was not "Little Iowa" to accept a civic center position was one of the few events stated by the stewards. renewal plan. that elicited a reaction from the Sun­"My car has been black-flagged -And yet Pook's seemingly bizarre day crowd of 125,000. While 85,000 with no official notification as to plan succeeded. With the help of a paid to see the race, thousands of why," an indignant Chapman told few key civic and business leaders, others observed from offices, apart­the press. "I came to Long Beach to the race began and grew in stature ment buildings, and construction race...and it is unbelievable that the until it now attracts national atten­cranes hung high over the race stewards would rule Lotus tion, and it operates in the black, track. 
------------·--------·-----·-----------------------··---------------. 
A1· t!-.'·•''t"~ <lfh n .1~1 ht· ltH.el\f-!•1 th ol 45 p 11 'vllf' ;iJ\~ ~'''0 '0 tht:a 1'>"'·11' ., '1\-fl1•, t· ~t''' ,.,I'",,~" The Obs.er\ler otfH:~ ,.,.,, -\C.C.~P{ '.!'ioJITtects \11rH,C11H lt'.r'• nJn F· lo:h· '() 00 d ~· ·o 4 45 '' ,,. \II .;I,)S$1fiCI.!:, .,,,1st tw
rci~sifieds IHI•·p.l•'l l>JThf>r ,n • pn;or. ••r Olrou-;_;'1 'tlP. m..t1 1 



LOST Vol~swagen car ~ays Please call BUMPERSTICKER SMC commtssToners will soon be hi·
·r-·---·--·--·-·---~ 
(1) WHEN YOU SAY NOTRE DAME, ling theor cabinet posotions Starllhmk­8914 
WANTED 

YOU'VE SAID IT ALL" ong now ,!bout how you'd loke to 
-.-.....··---·-~~..·-·-~-(2) WHEN YOU SAY IRISH. YOU'VE become involved. USED & OUT·OF-PRINT BOOKS 
FOUND PAIR OF LADIES GLASSES IN SAID IT ALL"ETS THEATRE. CALL 1829 AND ASKbough!. sold. searchad ERASMUS $2.00 each. Send check or money or­FOR NIKKI

BOOKS Tuas-Sunday. 12-6 1027 E NEED rode to NY area for Aproi2-Aprol5 NEW WAVE BAND
1 der to. Wayne (One block south ot Eddy­Please call 232-3656 IRISH BARNABAS Jefferson mtersec11on) THIS SATURDAY NIGHT 
LOST· BLUE CANVAS WALLET on ACC P.O. BOX 3364 men ·s locker room. 3-10-81 PLEASF 

Wantad· R1de to Pholadelphia or 
CHAPEL HILL. N.C. 27514return wallet. or more Importantly, i1!='
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS v1cin1ty sometime between this thurs. Jeff Jeffers IS so ugly, he knows 11! 
contenls (my 10. l1cense.etc) to either

RINGS $20-$85 OR MORE WE MAKE and sun. (march 26-29) call moke.283­
TUTORS NEEDED the Psychology dept olloce on Haggar

HOUSE CALLS 255-2402 1601 JANE-0.
t .Adult on Basoc Math.
Hall. or the Counseling Center (4th 

ONLY540AYSI OVERSEAS JOBS Summer-year Roders needed lo PHILL Y lor Fro. 27 TIM 2.H S. sophomore. Geometry floor Ad Bidg)--KEEP lhe cash con­Contact Volunteer Servoces. 7306lents as a reward. I JuSt want my ID's, 
Call232-7679 33 Asoa. All f1elds $500·$1.200 monthly Don't moss JULIA lh1s Wed. and Thurs. 
round Europe. S Amer. Ausoraloa. 
etc!ll NO QUESTIONS ASKED. II you STARS! STARS I STARS I Be here Mayhave mfo aoout 1ts whereabouts.

S1ghtseemg Free mfo. Wnte IJC. Box Help I Need t or 2 house mates (OC) lor at 7. 9, and 11 pm '"Engr Aud1tor1um
t7. t981 lor a soar-studded caso ofplease contact Chuck Lepkowsky at
52-IN4. Corona Del Mar. CA 92625 next year Call Scott. 682t or Ed. 288­thousands. Prostrate yourself before1718 days. or 289-5964 noghts 8726 MAC-­
The Hero ot the ·sos. Ronald Reagan HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY!
A HOW TO BUY OR SELL THE BUSI­LOST A green notebOok contaon1ng Also starring 
NESS OPPORTUNITY' WORKSHOP Wanted. Player lor BOOKSTORE team YOU'RE NOW A WONDERFUL
boo logy notes This IS cruc1al to my biol­Alexander Haog and the CambOdian B-May 2nd. Notre Dame Center lor ol good caliber People unde' 611. need WOMANOF2tl!
ogy course as well as the MCAT II 52's 
ContonUing Educ. For reservaooon call found please return to 305 Sonn hall or not apply. Call Bao at 3000 Dav1d Stockman and the Grom Reapers LOVE. 233-7200 GOOSE
call 8542 and collect a handsome Jack !God love hom) Kemp and hos East reward DESPERATE. Side. West Sode, Supply S<de Dancers
WANTED: cheap sox-strong gu1tar. I'm 
Vote March30-CLASSOF '84.
not picky Call2956.

A study 1s baong conducted on com­The baccalaureate caremony will be 
LYNCH-Pres. panoes Ihat sail TERM PAPERS If you FOUND Belore Break. a BROWN presided over by th~ Rev. Jerry (God 
SCRIBNER-V P are a student who has turned 1n one of WARM-UP TOP. on lhe Volunteer NEED RIDE BACK TO NO FROM D.C. loves me) Falwell substotut1ng lor Fr 
ROSS-Secthesa papers, or a professor who has Sevoces van, call M1ke al1652. AREA MONDAY AFTER EASTER-April Theodore Hesburgh who woll be w1lh AADZIKINAS-Treas rece1ved one please call Pat at t 728 All 20 WILL HELP WITH GAS. CHRIS­

_,_______ ·----··]·. Frotz Mondale buy1ng a new hat at 
LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLLI calls w111 be CONFIDENTIAL t595. Shannon A~rporl. 

Ir FOR RENT B1lila JEAN King. thanks lor the two
Don t moss JULIA thos Wed and Thurs NEED RIDE TO U. OF I. (URBANA) THIS 
Senior Formal bid lor sale. Cheap (So's 
tenn1s lessons.. WEIGS.
l--·-----------­

at7. 9 and t 1 pm on Engr Aud1tonum FRIDAY. 3-27 RICH-1594. my date!) Call Mike 1795. 
...........
Housas lor rent 8t -82 school year and Lmda. gel psyched! You·re go1ng toWill pay cash VW bugs rusted. waffled. 
summer Close to campus. gd. end. -----------have the ttme of your ltferoasted. blown 272-5453 turn Call287-5361 alter 6 p.m. love B1fl.
TICKE~
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 

Furnished 4 bedroom house lo next For a great Jr year-Vote Halong. Naorn. school year close lo campus. good Noland & Lmdquisl• They'll go out on a
LFO~~~~~E I [ 
area. 277-3604 or 288-0955 I need 3 (I hats three) graduallon tock­limb lor you!! DISCOUNT Must Sell Now 5 Cases Top els (Yes. tolks. II s starlmg already ) II Summer houses and rooms. turn1shed. Quality Pool Chlorone Tablets 277-6561 you can help me. call Scoop al1772. 
F~rst there was Jell Jetterswalk to campus. cheap reno. 277-3604 Then there was Cro-magnon manor288·0955 

Then lhre was Neanderthal man For Sale 
(These are actually the current UMOCAvaolbla lor fall -· 3&5 bedroom housa One Senoor Formal B1d-$50 ran~ings)on walkong dostance of campuus For 
Call Oavod, 233-3658 afler 7 p m
detaols call alter 6pm 232-3284 Q: Who were the two greatesllo~~~~-~f Class ol '83 -Vote Haling, Naorn . the Yukon? 

Noland. Lindqu1st lor Ihe year of yourATTN. JUNIORS A. Pyramoose and Thosbe llfe!!l 
6 bedrooms. $tOO-mo. each. Each has 
door lock and lavatory. Commu"'ty S1gn up today lor your SENIOR (One for the literary or the mythologocal llvong room & kotchen. Fully lurnoshed. 

YEARBOOK PHOTO by calling x3557 among the crowd. I mysell am actually M B.. every man·s desire. happy2 baohs Bocycle storage. Frea washer & or STOP by 2c LaForlune (oil the ball­
mythological. you know I) balated b~rthday Hope ot was a dam room batween 9-5).
dryer. Clean. Rated supenor Box 2513, Moose Control good day. baav. 

South Bend 46680 Class of 84 

OA 3·30 vote OSCAR OSORIO JANE MARNOCK MATTTOWSE DIANE DIRKERS 
an OSCAR w1nnmg ticket 
SMC students. Have Ideas or suggesttons thai you 
want somelhmg done about? Coma to I he Student Forum Thursday, March 26th al 8 00 p m And talk to your soudeno go> 1 
SMC clubhouse 

Interested 1n Law? The SMC Pre· Law Soc1e1y os sponsor­Ing a practtce LSA T test for all m· terested SMC-ND JUmors on Sunday March 29th S1gn up by Thursday Call Or Br~sbon (4925) lor lurther detaols 
Don t wr~te Ann Landers 
bring your problams 10 the SMC STUDENT FORUM Thursday March 26th at 8 p m on ohe SMC clubhouse 
Classifieds will not be 
accepted 

from 12-5p.m. 
Thursday, 
March 26th 

,--~-­
,r 
SRorts 
As Irish coach 

Faust lives out his dreatn 
Editor's note: This is the second of a four-part series looking at new Notre Dame football coach Gerry Faust. 
By MICHAEL ORTMAN 
Sports Writer 
This is a true story. 
Gene Corrigan was sitting in the offices of Fr. Edmund P. joyce, the man whose task it was to select a successor to football coach Dan Devine. The two were discussing Notre Dame athletics and the pos­sibility ofCorrigan succeeding retir­ing Athletic Director Moose Krause. Now Corrigan's no rookie in the field, but this is roughly what was 
said... 
"Gene, what do you think ofGerry Faust as a candidate for the head football coaching position? I kind of 
like him." "Forgive me. Father, but I'm not familiar with that name. Gerry 
Faust?" 
"He's the coach at Moeller." 
"Oh, ofcourse. We recruit a lot of kids from Moeller at Virginia." 
They do at Notre Dame, too. And the names of several of the players have become household names in football circles. But their high school coach was relatively un­known. 
Faust's road to the Golden Dome began long before Devine an­nounced his resignation last August. As has been told over and over, Notre Dame is the place Faust ha.S wanted to be since he was at Chaminade High School in Dayton, Ohio. But it was Faust himself who took the first step toward his current position. 
"Three or four years ago, I wrote to Fatherjoyce and asked that if the job ever opened up, I'd like to be considered," he related recently in that raspy voice which is rapidly becoming as familiar as his name. 


"Father wrote back and said that he anticipated no changes in the staff, but that ifever things should change, he'd keep me in consideration." 
All was quiet on the Irish coaching · front until, as Faust puts it, "Coach Devine surprised everybody with his announcement." 
Faust was sitting at home that August day when he got a call from someone not even connected with Moeller football. "Gosh who was it " he squirmed as he tried to recall the details. The funny fact is that Faust recalls every point of every I980 Moeller game with astounding quickness, but he has trouble remembering the trivial details of 
his hiring. 

The caller was a friend ofDr. Vehr -Nick's dad. Nick had called home to say that Coach had told the players that he wouldn't be back and that it would be announced a~ halftime ofthat night's televised ex­
ibition pro game. 

And in front oftheir 1V that night were the Fausts -Gerry and Mariene. And the .announcement came. And Mrs. Faust smiled and said, "You're gonna get that job. I've got a feeling." 
The next day, the Moeller football teams would be engaged in pre­season scrimmages from 9 a.m. 6 
p.m. The sophomore team and two separate squads comprised ofvaristy players, each had games that Faust was to coach. But the media blitz arrived at 7:30 a.m. There he was, trying to prepare for a hectic day of doing what he does best, and trying to answer curious probing questions from writers and 1V crews. Being the man he is, Faust wanted to take care ofthem all, yet he really had no­thing new to say. 
The storm quieted for a few weeks, but speculation continued. Every region of the country had their own candidate -Faust in the Midwest, UCLA's Terry Donohue in the West, Harvard's joe Restic in the Northeast, Arkansas' Lou Holtz in the Southwest, and so on. And every 
See FAUST, page 6 
Formula One thrives in USA 
By TOM KOEGEL 
SeniorStaffReporter 
LONG BEACH, Calif. -Alanjones 
swept to victory in the sixth annual 
Long Beach Grand Prix on Sunday, 
:'vtarch I 5 in his Saudia Leyland 
spor.~orctl Formula One car. jones' 
Williams team dominated the field, 
with his teammate Carlos 
Reutemann placing a strong second, 
as Jones begins his struggle to 
become the first driver in twenty 
years to capture two consecutive 
World Championships. 
To the approximately 250,000 people that crowded the streets of Long Beach during the three-day race weekend. the event was much more than a race in the Formula One serit:s. It was a huge, loud and bois­terous party, occasionally bordering on the lewd, yet always holding a note offascination for all. 
The crowd battled the warm California sunshine with untold gal­lons of imported Tecate beer (the official beer ofthe Grand Prix); they ogled various tanned beauties, . including Dominique Maure, former Penthouse "Pet of the Year" (Penthouse is the official magazine of the GP); they trotted about the course in their Nike shoes (official running shoes), photographed with their Canon cameras (official camera), and saw various officials of McDonnell Douglas Aircraft Cor­poration, the constructors of the DC-10 (the official airplane?). 

This was not, however, a leather­jacketed, Bruce Springsteen, racing-· in-the-streets kind of crowd. Strawberry daiquiris vied with the imported beer for popularity. Souvenir stands sold flimsy racing team windbreakers for S35, with more substantial jackets priced around S80. 
The crowd had an international flavor, what with the French teams making a reputation for surliness, the British for wit, and the Italians for flair. 
The entire weekend seemed to progress as a struggle between the party atmosphere that permeated the event, and the complex world of Formula One racing. The race was finally overcome by the spectacle that it created. 
For the average ticket holder, the sights included roller-skating femme fatales in scanty, metallic colored bikinis, hawking the Satur­day night races at a local track, .and the occasional Hollywood "celebrity from Saturday's Toyota Pro/Celebrity race. For the VIP, there was the elite Paddock Club, 

and assorted Miss Toyota Grand Prix of Long Beach finalists available for picture taking. For the very, very VIP Moet Champagne (you guessed it, the official champagne of the GP) had its own private party, which kicked off Sunday's festivities with an executive cork-popping by a sabre wielding official. 
The race itself was a relatively placid affair in comparison to the fes­tivities. The Williams team dominated throughout the weekend, and were it not for an in­credibly fast qualifying lap by the Ar­rows Team's Ricardo Patrese to capture the pole position, Reutemann and jones would have taken the 1-2 positions on the start­ing grid as well. 
Patrese appeared stunned by the pole position, and almost mystified (or perhaps it was bored) by the hoopla that accompanied it. He ac­cepted the pole award trophy, the accompanying camera (Canon, of course), and even the affection of team sponsor Penthouse's Dominique (who was half a foot tal­ler than he), with an equal degree of bemusement. 
Patrese made good use ofthe pole positi<?n, however, as he Iept to an 
See RACING, page 7 
Wednesday, March 25, 1981-page 8 
, 
Bill Marquard
Irish \ 
Sports Writer 
Items 

RITES OF SPRING? -The Notre Dame managers have just overone week to pack up the basketballs and get out the footballs again. Spring practice for the football team opens this Saturday, with the annual Blue-Gold intrasquad game slated for Saturday, May 2 in the stadium. 
Although the practice jerseys will still be the same for now, Notre Dame's game jerseys next season will be blue and gold, a change from the green and gold combination which Dan Devine (Remember him? He was the guy standing with jane Byrne on the float at Chicago's St. Patrick's Day Parade. Jane was the one in the green fur.) introduced at the I977 USC game. 
VENI, VIDI, VICI (or GERRY FAUST'S GUIDE TO COLLEGE RECRUITING) -Speculation has been running wild about the success ofNotre Da t me's football recruiting this year, and at least one expert backs up that contention. 
joe Marcin, a veteran writer for The Sporting News and a shrewd judge of prep grid talent, estimates that Notre Dame "had by far the best recruiting year ofany college in the country." In fact, according to Marcin the Irish may have landed the most talented crop of prep players ofany school in recent years. 
Notre Dame's prize catch includes I3 Parade all-Americans, six more than the previous best for the Irish. As far as Marcin can recall, the most Parade or blue-chip· stars inked to national letters by any school previously was the II signed byJohnny Majors in his first year at Tennessee. 
However, the number ofoutstandingsignees is not a true indication or guarantee ofsuccess on the field, since those stars signed by Ten­nessee would have been seniors this past season. In fact, the recruiting season which followed Notre Dame's 1973 national championship was considered at the time to be poorer than most, but those same freshman earned the next national crown for the Irish in 1977. 
Nevertheless, Marcin added that "I2 or I3 blue-chippers are good 
by any standard, and six or seven should tum out to be outstanding 
players, even a few all-Americans. When a team can get six good 
players every year, they are going to be tough." 
Marcin finished with a powerful prophecy: "This fall, there will be 
more football talent on the Notre Dame campus than there has been 
since Leahy." 
Whew! 

HIGH ON PRINCIPLES -Despite the afore:mentioned recruiting 
successes of recruiting coordinator Brian Boulac and Faust, it seems 
that the football office has not compromised their principlesor morals 
in the process. Many ofyou have probably read this story in theSouth 
Bend Tribune or your hometown paper, but for those of you who 
haven't: 

When Faust was visiting with an unnamed recruit recently, the grid 
llopeful's stereo was turned up rather loud. The recruit's mother 
walked into the room to turn the stereo volume down, at which the 
recruit pushed his mother away from the stereo and told her to "get 
your (expletive deleted) hands off my stereo." 
After talking to the boy for a few more minutes, Faust told him that 
Notre Dame did not need that kind of person and walked out of the 
recruit's house with the scholarship offer he didn't deliver. 
DOWN FOR THE COUNT-One of Faust's new defensive recruits has been tackling opponents all winter. Mike Golic, the younger brot­her of Bob Golic who was Notre Dame's first two-sport all-American (football and wrestling) since Moose Krause, finished third in Ohio's state wrestling championships two weeks ago. A senior linebacker at St. joseph High School in Cleveland, the younger Golic won the coveted Lou Groza award earlier this year, an award given annually to the top prep football player in the Greater Cleveland area. 
IRISH 40, ST. PATRICK LUV-During their recent West Coast trip, 
the Irish men's and women's tennis squads squared off in a net 
doubleheader against Loyola Marymont on May I7. In honor of the 
fact that their school was competing against Notre Dame on St. 
Patrick's Day, many Loyola students took the day offand showed up at 
the tennis courts to "cheer" their team to victory over the Irish. 
Although their loyal fans clapped on every point (which was dif­
ficult while holding cups full of beer drawn from grandstand kegs), 
Loyola nevertheless succumbed to the Irish, losing 9-0 to the men's 
team and 7-2 to the women. 
CAGE CATCH -Women's basketball coach Mary DiStanislao has added yet a fourth prep star to her stable offine recruits. The newest filly is Susan Neville, a 5-8 point guard from Decatur High School in Decatur, Alabama. Neville, who holds every Decatur scoring record and led the squad in scoring in each of her four years, averaged 19 points as a senior on the 20-8 Decatur team. 
An honor student, Neville shot 45 percent from the floor and 69 percent from the charity stripe dring her senior season, while posting means of 6.0 rebounds; 4.1 assists, 2.9 steals and 1.2 blocked shots. Her effort earned her the Bronze and Silver Medal presented by the Stayfree Company and the Wade Trophy Medalist Club. 
"Susan possesses all the skills necessary to be an excellent quarter­back," remarked DiStanislao who finally achieved her lOOth career coaching victory at the Northern Lights Invitational Tournament in Anchorage, Alaska last week. "We'll be looking for her to do a Jot of different things on the floor, and she has shown in high school that she is a complete ballplayer." 
Along with being Decatur's number one scorer, she is also the 
team's number two career rebounder and has been named to every 
tournament and regional team possible since her freshman campaign. 


