--~------------­
• .Heron -page 4
• 

VOL. XV, NO. 99 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY25, 1981 
Spanish rebels surrender after 18-hour siege 
MADRID, Spain (AP) Denounced by their king and military commanders, rebel officers surrendered yesterday after holding government leaders and members of Parliament hostage for 18 hours In a dramatic attempt to overthrow Spain's fledgling democracy. 
Lt. Col. Antonio Tejero Molina of 
the para-mililary Civil Guard, gave 
up the coup attempt after a night­
long standoff. Deserted by many of 
the 200 men who had stormed the 
Spanish Cortes (Parliament), Molina 
agreed to formally surrender, sym­
bolically in the former office of 
Spain's late dictator Generalissimo 
Francisco Franco. 
There were no casualties, al­
though Tejero Molina fired his 
heavy army pistol in the air six times 
during the takeover and other rebels 
sprayed the rotunda of the Cortes 
with submachlne gun fire, raining down plaster on the lawmakers as they dove for cover. 
It was not immediatly clear whet­her Tejero Molina was promised the safe conduct out of the country that army negotiators offered him during the siege. Bdore giving up he was quoted as saying, "I will have to pay with 30 or 40 years In prison." 
Government ministers and the 350 members of Parliament forced at gunpoint to their desks through the night, filed out ofthe building to cheers of "democracy, democracy" from a crowd of thousands of jubilant Spaniards. 
"We were tranquil, we were calm, because calm is the fundamental ele­ment in situations like this," said Deputy Pedro Bofill, his shirt rumpled and his tie askew after the long ordeal. 

The end really came 11 hours ear­lier when King Juan Carlos went on national television and ordered military commanders to "take all necessary m~asures to keep the con­stitutional order." 
The army obeyed and Juan Carlos passed the most crucial test of his five-year reign. 
Appearing on television in his uni­form of commander in chief of the armed forces, the 43 year-old monarch declared, "the crown ... cannot tolerate in any form, actions or attitudes ofpersons who try to in­_terrupt the democratic process of the constitution." 
The king's intervention cracked what little military backing the ·rebels had secured. All but one of Channell6's 'Skycam' takes offto cover a story with tts unique ability to broadcast livefrom the air. (photo byjaneAhern) · 
See REBELS, page 3 
Lawler foresees strong social network 
By DAN LEDUC 
News Staff 

!)!ext year's newly approved Student Union Director Bill Lawler's plans for 1981-82 include restructuring the Social Commission to increase its effec­tivness through cooperation with individual halls. 
"The social atmosphere at Notre Dame centers around the hall," Lawler said. "We'll have the Social Commission go to halls and say we have this or that coming up and ask for the hall to co-sponsor the event. 
judy awaits 'a better life, 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Con­\'icted murderer Steven T. Judy told his foster parents that he knows "there Is a better life after this one, so I might as well get started on it." 
Judy, 24, a former Indianapolis construction worker, is scheduled to die March 9 in the electric chair for the murders of a young In­dianapolis woman and her three small children. 
lie has resisted all legal efforts to halt or delay his execution at the In­diana State Prison at Michigan City. 
His foster parents, Robert and 
Mary Carr ofIndianapolis, have been 
the condemned man's only visitors 
except for his attorney, Steven L 
Harris of Morresvillc. 
Harris said judy "doesn't want me 
or anyone else to do anything or file 
any stays. 
"I have not heard anything for 
some time from the American Civil 
Liberties Union, but it would not 
surprise me ifthey tried to file some­
thing to stop the execution. I still 
don't believe it will do any real good 
without his cooperation." 
A spokesman for the ACLU said Monday that the organization has not decided what, If any, action might be taken to halt the scheduled execution. 
"We are still trying to talk him out of this," said Mrs. Carr. "We are trying to convince him that he would have a good chance in a new trial with more doctors, but he still feels that society is not ready to deal with a person like him and he Is not going to wait in prison until it is. 
"He's been sick since he was 9 years old. He needs mental treat­ment or to be studied so that doctors might learn how to prevent or treat the future StevenJudy's." 
Instead, however, "They arc just going to strap him down in that chair, and he's going to let them kill him," she said. 

"Steve is holding onto a rope of 
reincarnation," she said. "He makes 
it all sound so logical that he wants 
to die, to be done with this life and 
start another, better one." 
Harris says Judy believes "there is 
a spirit in his present life but not that 
there is a heaven or hell." 
Judy does not have extensive knowledge of the religions in which reincarnation Is an important theme and he has nu spech.c idea what 
form his reincarnation may take, according to friends. 
Aside from his morbid jokes and discussions of final arrangements, ,Judy "is in such good spirits it almost makes you sick," Mrs. Carr said. "He acts like death will be a total relief 
"He gets a kick out of how some people feel uncomfortable around hi.m," she said. "There is a bit ofchal­lenge for him to convince some people (that he wants to die)." 
Harris stated, "He thinks that once the electricity starts the pain will be short-lived." 
Judy joked that the black hood to 
be pulled over his head when he is in 
the chair "is just so the spectators 
don't get sick." 
Mrs. Carr said Judy "tells us to 'think ofhis death as ifhe had cancer or some other terminal illness and forget it in six months." 
Judy insisted he knew what he was doing and became angry when the Carrs questioned his sanity. "He said he would have to go to court and He that he doesn't love us if that is what it takes to keep us from trying to intervene in the execu­tion," she said. "He is really making it hard for us to help him. 
"I know that the Chastccns arc 
really hurting over their loss," she 
said. "But to me, Steve Is sick and 
ought to get treatment rather than 
the electric chair." 
Judy was convicted in the rape and strangulation death of Terry Chasteen, 21, and drowning her three small children. 
Judy has spent most of his time watching television in his cell, and he does not sleep well at night, Mrs. Carr said. 
He has received a great deal of mail, including requests from religious leaders and news reporters asking for interviews. Prison officials 
have prohibited such personal or telephone conversations withJudy. 
A woman on death row in Texas 
wrote to' Judy pleading that he 
"accept Christ and not die" as it 
would help clear the way for more 
executions, Harris said. 

"We also want the halls to come to sec us," he said. 'The Student Union 
could provide funds if several halls wanted to combine and sponsor some­
thing." 
Other plans call for more concerts, a centralized publicity office, and 
combining the SU ticket office and record store. 
Lawler, a junior, who is the Contemporary Arts Commissioner, is one of 
two applicants for the director's position. The Student Senate confirmed 
Lawler's appointment Monday night after his selection by the SU Steering 
Committee. 
The recently abolished SU Board ofCommissioners approved new direc­
tors in the past. Under the new constitution, the Senate must approve the 
selection ofSU director and comptroller. 
Rich Coppola, present SU director, said that the change in procedure docs not alter SU operation. "The Senate is just another body for the Student Union to deal with," he said. 
Next year's newly approved SU comptroller is Matthew Barrett, a junior accounting major. "I see myself as a policy advisor on finance," he said. "I hope I can help Bill on the business side. 
See LAWLER, page 3 

Murday-Kenney ticket highlights experience 
By MIKE DUPLESSIE 
News Staff 
Don Murday and Tara Kenney focus on experience in their can­didacy for Stude t nt Body President and Vice President. 
Don Murday is the president of Carroll Hall, and serving as Ex­ecutive Coordinator of the Student Government. He cited a multi­faceted viewpoint on the Student Government, "In working in the dorm as Hall President I see the problems individual dorms face, and in working with the Student Gover­ment I see the problems that con­front the Student Body as a whole." 
Tara Kenney is the president of Lyons Hall, and also holds a position on the Student Senate as a HPC rep­resentative. 
The basic issue of the Murday­Kenney ticket is "a push for increased social space." Murday ha.~ twice researched, formulated and presented proposals to the Trustees concerning the need for a student center, and contributed to the 
:.ightclub-coffeehouse renovation 
effort for the second floor of 
LaFortune. 
Murday andKenney also advocate 
further w01:k on the Student Senate 
that Paul Riehle ha.~ laid the 
groundwork for, as a viable 
representitive body which must 
continue as an essential link in stu­
dent communication. 
Security is also heavily stressed in their campaign, through many viable campus plans ranging from in­creased lighting, and the placement of emergency telephones around campus, to the development of safety systems in each dormitory. 
Uon Murday, in conclusion, ex· plaincd how his experience would faciltate his work with the Ad­
ministration, "working with everyone In the Administration have developed a mutual respect with the university officials. They know I am sincere in what I am doing, and they list ten to what I have to say. That Is something tlbt cannot happen overnight, but must be developed over years of working to­
gether." 


•

Wednesday, February 25, 1981 -page 2

NewsBrie_b 
~==~=======*==============================~ 
by The Oh1erver and The A11ociated Prm 
President Reagan served notice yesterday 
that his response to the "very interesting" overtures of Soviet Presi­dent Leonid I. Brezhnev could hinge upon the Kremlin's role in ar­ming El Salvador insurgents. At the same time, the chiefexecutive said the United States has "no intention" ofentangling itself in a Vietnam­like conflict in El Salvador, even as Pentagon officials disclosed that more American military advisers may be sent there. Reagan, in his first public comment following Brczhnev's call Monday for a summit and new arms talks, declared that Moscow's alliance with Central American revolutionaries "would be one of the things that should be straightened out" before any such meetings arc set. -AP 
The nation'S governOrS formally endorsed Presi­dent Reagan's budget-cutting efforts yesterday, but declared they will · "vigorously oppose" any attempt to force state and local governments to pick up the costs for programs like welfare and medical care for the poor. Closing the winter meeting of the National Governors Associa­tion. the state executives declared they "share the president's con­cern about the high inflation, high unemployment, and low productivity that afflict the nation's economy..." And "W•~ share with the administration the belief that federal expenditures must be brought under control, and we arc prepared to accept budget cuts," tht· resolution said. But the goal they don't share, th•: governors stressed, is Reagan's hope of eventually eliminating welf:ue -along 
v. ith the tax sources to pay for it -from federal respon:;ihility. "We will vigorously oppose any attempts to shift costs to state and local taxpayers," the resolution said. And the governors added they would oppose any element in the presidential program which imposed an "unfair ami disproportionate burden on the poor." -AP 
A New York state appeals court yesterday upheld the first jury verdict against a firm that manufactured DES, a drug linked to cancer in some women whose mothers took it during pregnancy. The decision could pave the way for hundreds ofsuch lawsuis nationwide. The Appellate Division ofstate Supreme Court unanimously affirmed a Bronx jury's landmark verdict to award Joyce Bichler, 27, of San Francisco, damages totalling S500,000 in her suit against Eli Lilly & Co., brought to court as a representative ofthe drug indust:ry. During a five-week trial in 1979, it was never proven the Indianapolli-hased firm had made the pills Ms. Bichler's mother took during prt:gnancy and which Ms. Bichler said caused her to suffer cancer at ag•e 18 and re­quire a radical hysterectomy to remove her cancerous r·~pn:iductive organs. The 1979 verdict found that all producers ofDES 8 or diethys­tibestrol, a synthetic hormone once used to prevent miscarriages ­share responsibility for adequate drug testing. -AP 

u.s. narcotics traffic is so large and violent that the FBI must take a bigger role in attacking it, an idea that). Edgar Hoover resisted tooth and nail, according to FBI director William H. Webster. "The federal government has to take a hard look at its effcltiveness in drug enforcement," Webster said in an interview on his third anniver­sary as FBI director. "Vast aw.ounts of drugs a1.;: coming in from outside the country, overwhelming the resources ofCustoms and the Drug Enforcement Administration." Hoover, who ran the bureau from 
1924 to 1972, continually beat back congressional effons to thrust drug enforcement on his agents. With the Reagan administration com­mitted to greater federal efforts to combat violent crime, Webster said, "When we attack the drug problem head on, it seems to me we are going to make a major dent in attacking violent crime." -AP 

Prince Charles,heir to Britain's throne, will end his bac­helorhood this summer, marrying "girl next door" Lady Diana Spen­cer -12 years his junior and whose older sister was one of his girlfriends. The Buckingham Palace announcement of the couple's engagement was issued through the Press Association, Britain's domestic news agency, yesterday. It ended months ofspeculation that the discreet and demure 19-year-old kindergarten teacher--his 16th cousin once removed and herselfofroyal descent-had captured the 32 year-old prince's heart and would eventually become the Princess of Wale~. The prince gave her a ring described by Buckingl1am Palace as an o· al sapphire surrounded by 12 diamonds set in 18-karat gold. No precise date was set for the wedding, but the prince said it will probably be in "lateJuly." -AP 
Spectators filled the room and spilled into the 

Statehouse halls yesterday as the Senate Public Policy Committee began taking testimony on a bill that would abolish the state's Al­coholic Beverage Commission. Bill author Sen. John B. Augsburger, R-Syracuse, said "it's time to pull our heads out ofthe sand and revise Indiana's alcohol licensing laws, which are based on a l935 post­prohibition statute. He is sponsoring a bill that would eliminate the ABC, abolish the current system of awarding permits and liquor licenses based on quotas and replace it with a free enterprise system. Augsburger said he wanted to eliminate the quota system that's now in effect because it doesn't fulfill the original intent ofdecreasing alcohol consumption, and the system has "ca. ""Cd opportunities lor corrup­tion." -AP 
Jean Harris was convicted yesterday of murder­

ing Scarsdale Diet author Dr. Herman Tarnower, her lover of 14 years who had jilted her for a younger woman. The charge carries a man­datory minimum sentence of 1 5 years to life in prison and a maximum of 25 years to life. Mrs. Harris sat at the defense table with her four attorneys and displayed no reaction as jury foreman Russell Von Glahn pronounced the word "guilty" three times for the murder charge and two weapons counts. But two defense lawyers burst into tears at the table and Mrs. Harris turned to one of them, Bonnie Steingart, and patted her knee consolingly. judge Russell It Leggett ordered Mrs. Harris immediately remanded to the Westchester County jail to await 
sentencing on March 20. -AP 

Mostly sunnyand cooler today. The high neat 40. Clear and cold tonight with the lows in the low to mid 20s. Mo:>tly sunny tomorrow. Highs in the upper 30s. -AP 
A Spirited Gamble 
Only in Domerland could a traditional campus ac­
tivity -the Mardi Gras -provoke a legal dilemma, that 
dilemma being the question of what is paramount: the 
spirit ofa law or the law itself? Allow me to explain. 
As reported several months ago, the campus' Mardi 
Gras may have run its last course. The diocese, you see, 
plans to enforce a regulation prohibiting church­
affiliated gambling. Apparently such an activity is not in 
accordance with Church doctrine. Unless granted some 
sort of dispensation, Mardi Gras then will become il­
legal. 
The only reason that this Y'"ar's festivities proceeded 
as planned must be credited to the diocese's Bishop 
McManus. The bishop realized that benefiting charities 
-already counting on Mardi Gras contributions-had 
budgeted with these contributions already in mind, 
according to one Mardi Gras official. 'Twould not be 
Christian to Indian-give funds promised. 
Dismissing the Church for a moment, let us examine 
the Mardi Gras itself Somehow the tentative abolition 
of the event confuses me. Though I am not a gambler, I 
can find only overwhelming reasons for advocating the 
annual tradition. 
Here we have (or shall I say had?) an event that fos­ters cooperation between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Saint Mary's, in­cidentally, possesses an abominably high dropout rate, according to some of their student government officials. These students at­tribute a large portion ofthe attrition to unmet social ex­pectations. SMC women en­roll with perhaps the illusion of vast amounts of 
contact between the Col­lege and the University. SMC women quickly learn they must hop on a shuttle and make an effort to get in­volved across the street. Many must find such an ar­rangement quite incon­venient. 
Mardi Gras, however, provided over a week's worth of reasons for hopping on the shuttle. Instead of "coming over" to eat Huddle cheeseburgers, watch movies or study on the library's second floor, Saint Mary's students were not just visiters last week. They played important roles in the Mardi Gras' production. One would then presume that Saint Mary's women ap­preciate Mardi Gras, for the activity encompasses both campuses. 
From the perspective ofthis side of the street, Notre Dame has developed a nasty, Rotorious reputation for a lack of campus activities. Short of standing in the stadium's bleachers, one rarely gets a sense of "campus." per se. There is definitely carmarderie wit­hin the halls here, hut how often do halls unite on large scale. I can count the events on one hand. 
Mardi Gras, however, involves the entire campus, 
unifies halls, and grants everyone an opportunity to par­
ticipate -be it by selling tickets, building booths or 
simply attending. The true beauty of the event, however, that offsets it from the few other campus-wide activities, lies in its fiscal facet. 
_The_OhserY-er_ Design Editor ................... Deirdre Murphy Design Assistants ................ Elizabeth Clay Greg Swiercz Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor .............................. Lynne Daley Copy Editors ....................... Tim Vercellotti Valerie Evans Sports Copy Editor ............... Gary Grassey Typist ................................ Michele Kelleher Systems Control ..................... Marty Hynes NO Day Editor ...................... Molly Woulfe Ad Design ............................... Woody & Co. Photographer ....................... Rachel Blount  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrightt are reserved.  




Mardi Gras makes money, and all money made goes directly to needy local charities. We are not ~peaking of insignificant sums; we arc dealing with double digits and thousands of dollars. The charities benefiting from the event do not rank among the "corporate" charities such as the Heart Fund and the Cancer fund. Such money could he deemed petty cash by such "conglomerates." The Mardi Gras charities include such places as Sr. Marita's Primary Day School and Logan Center, to mention just tw1.1. These charities have no estates routinely bequeathed to them; these charities depend on Mardi Gras. 
In short, both campuses are happy; the administra­tion obviously supports Mardi Gras since officials al­low it to be held in Stepan Center; some lucky winner takes home a new car; stu­dents win prizes for selling tickets and -of paramount importance charities benefit. 
This is why I am confused. 
The Church is upholding a law -regardless. They are even, enforcing their anti­gambling regulation to the point of outlawing church bingo. What could be more harmless than groups of 
p...,.-senior citizens or surbur­

banites engrossed in oc­casional games of bingo? Such an activity, however, constitutes gambling, according to the diocese. 
The diocese appears to ignore the spirit of the law. For a body professing to be the legislator of the Church's doctrines, it is undermining its own ob­jectives. Looking at rules and regulations from a words­on-paper perspective, the diocese is discounting the human perspective and the objective of benign bingo games and Mardi Gras. Perhaps it is naive to think that gambling in the case of Mardi Gras reflects a Christian principle since deserving have-nots benefit. An event produced for charity's sake surety does not prohibit Christian objectives. 
Does the Church believe that the likes of bingo -and Mardi Gras will send solid churchgoers to Las Vegas' casinos to gamble away all their earthly possessions, then proceed to lose their faith and alas, lead lives of decadent debauchery? 
The Church needs to soften its stance slightly, tor it appears to be gambling -with its own principles. 

·-~--------­

Wednesday, February 25, 1981 page 3
The Observer 
Graveside roses
Murphy-Dziminski 
Class honors O'Hara
triumph in SMC election 

By SHEILA SHUNICK 
News Staff 

mates were Elaine Hocter, vice­president of the Saint Mary's Class of Kathleen Murphy was elected president; Denise Drake, secretary; 
Eighteen years have passed since the first rose arrange· '84 yesterday, while Carol Dziminski and Maureen Highcs, treasurer; 
ment was placed in front of the tomb of Cardinal John was triumphant in the race for presi· received 63 percent of the vote. 
O'Hara. Since that time, fresh roses have always been pr~sent dent of next year's junior class. The The remaining 1981-82 junior 
at the Cardinal's burial site in Sacred Heart Church. 
results of the runoff were an· class officers arc: Beth Bunker, vice-
The Class of 1928 initiated the endowment fund which, nounccd by Margie Quinn, Saint president; Catherine Burns, 
through accumulated interest, has supplied the evcrpresent Mary's elections commissioner. secretary; and Anne Clarke, 
flowers. Ms. Murphy, whose running treasurer. 
O'Hara was Dean of the College of Commerce at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame from 1920 to 1924. As Prefect of Religion from 1920 to 19 33, O'Hara set the pattern for religious life at Notre Dame, and was known for his abilitks as a confessor. 
In 1933, he became vice-president of the University and served as president from I'->34 to 1939. On jan. 12, 1940, he .:onvictcd last year ofconspiring to 
• • .Rebels 

was consecrated Bishop at Sacred Heart Churl.·h for the 
continued from page I 
set up a military dictatorship and 

Military Ordinariatc. On May 8, 194S, he became Bishop of had spent a year under house arrest. 
Buffalo, and on jan. 9, 19') I, he was installed as Archbishopthe commanders of 221,000 man But he received a surprisingly mild of Philadelphia.
army had proclaimed unconditional sen tcnce of seven months im­In 19')8, Bishop O'Hara was made a Cardinal by Pope Johnloyalty to juan Carlos. 
prisonment without any reduction 
XXlll.

The husky Tejcro Molina, 49, was in rank. 
Cardinal john O'Hara died on August 18, llJ60, yet is con­tinually remembered in roses. 
• • .Lawler 

Big Brothers/ 
SMC ORIENTATION '81 
Applications are now being accepted for. 
Big Sisters 

ccmtinuedfrom page I 
Assistant Chairman Social Chairman 
Who would like 
"We're not here to make money or break even," he said. 
Publicity Chairman Off-Campus Chariman 
Last year's Sll deficit was budgeted at S90,000 with the cash flow running 
Big Sister-Little Sister Transfer Chairman 
Dayton tickets for 
at S200,000 to $300,000. 
Chairman General Committee 
"We're not as intcrcstt·d in making a profit as in serving students," said 
Workers

their Little call 
Lawler. "The SU gets a large percentage -maybe 7S percent -from the student activity fcc. 
Applications are available in the Student Activities Office 
Lena at 6998
"It's a choice. You can plan to lose money or you can price things out of 
-166 LeMans. Deadline is Friday, Feb. 27. Sign up for an 
student's means." he said. "Students pay an activities fcc so they're getting 
by Friday, Feb. 27 
interview when returning applications. 
thdr money back." Besides next year's plans for a centralized SU publicity office, Lawler would like to sec more SU-sponsorcd concerts. 
Though it is difficult to predict what dates arc available in the future Lawkr said, the Michigan area is good for conet:rts because groups can b~ "blm:k booked." Groups appearing at other area schools can be booked to 
includt· Notre Dame on their stops by this procedure. Notre Dame joined the National Entertainment and Campus Activities Association this year to get assistance in scheduling concerts. Lawler said he didn't envision cutting any activities next year because of expense. "The budget remains fairly steady, taking inflation into considera­tion," he said. The new director takes office April I and is begining to select his staff for next year. He enouraged studt·nts to apply for Sll positions. 
Outgoing director Coppola said, "I think Blll is very I.JUalificd -he is a good guy. He has proved himself as Contemporary Arts Commissioner. He has done a commendable job. I have no doubts as to his success next year." 



~-~@ 
ALL YOU CAN EAT SPECIALS 
4.:30 P.M. TO 10:00 P.M. 
SPPai£TTI
flfMJ 
Mond•r Includes Special Italian sauce, Nlf• dinner salad, French bread & butter '2.75 
Erery ~J(J\&"
WHn•ad•r 
Our own crl$p lrledchlcken, I Sund•r choice of potatoes, roll & butter '3.75 
Nlfe FiliiFBI 
Elf•Y 
Home batter dipped ocean perch
Frld•r 
French fries, slaw. roll & butter ' '3.25 
Nlte 52820 U.S. 31 NO.,-South Bend . 209 E. Ire I and, South Bend • 921 W. McKinley, Mishawaka r 
MICHIGAN .. SNO-N-GO REPORTS 
Snow, ski, snowmobile and road reports 24 hours a day. Free literature available. 
_)(_~-c, 

Call toll-free 800-248-5700 


... --------~----------""""'-------. 
,1• 
Wednesday, February 25, 1981 -page 4
Editorials 
Wednesday 

Conversa,tion with Gil Scott-Heron 
Anthony Walton 

Gil  Scott-Heron  is  in  many  taught  me  to believe that if you  
respects a Renaissance man. He's  didn't stand for somt:thing you'd  
a  noted novelist, poet, musician  go for anything, and she had  me  
and general social critic.  He has  involved  with  things,  and  in­ 
written three novels and a book of  fluenced by them. The first time I  
poems·,  recorded  13  albums and  became aware of the NAACP was  
has had several hit singles, among  in  1958,  and in  January  1961  I  
them  "The  Bottle,"  Johannes­ became  one  of  the  first  three  
burg," and "Angel Dust."  black  children  to  attend  school  
He  is  a  graduate  of  Lincoln  with white kids in a previously all  
University and received his mas­ white junior high  school  called  
ters in  English from Johns Hop­ Tigrit  in  Jackson,  Tennessee.  I  
kins.  He  has  taught  at  the  mention that because in terms of  
University  of  the  District  of  something  political,  or  socially  
Columbia.  Scott-Heron  and  his  political, I had not done anything  
group,  the Midnight Band, have  before. I was twelve at the time,  
appeared on Saturday Night Live  and  a  lot  of  the  things  that  
and recently finished a tour with  politicized me came about at that  
Stevie Wonder.  time.  From  as far back as  I can  
During his recent visit here, I  remember there  were  signs that  
had the privilege of talking with  said white on one side and colored  
him  at  length.  His  thoughts  on  on the other, or Negro here and  
subjects ranging from America's  white  over  here.  And from  the  
future  to black literature appear  very way that the town  was  set  
below.  up,  there  was  literally  another  
side of the tracks that most black  
people lived on the other side of, 
Q: You've done a number of dif­ all those sort of things that keep 
ferent things artistically, written  all but a fool from knowing that  
several novels,  a  lot of poetry,  Gil-Scott Heron (photo by Tim McKeogh)there were certain standards and  
and have recorded 13 albums. In  a certain dichotomy that my life  
view of all this, what do you per­ceive as your role in the com­munity? A: I'm a blues-ologist. Everything I qo comes out of that, falls rather comfortably under that category. Art as a ·rule, or at least artists, according to Paul Robeson, have a responsibility to either help liberate their community or to fur­ther oppress it. Being an ex­ponent of the former, I try to do things in an artistic fashion that I think will help inform or educate the community. A very good ex­ample of what I'm talking about is  consisted of. More than anything else th~re was the fact that life made me recognize that there were certain obvious differences that had to be dealt with as long as people were uncomfortable about them. And the people who were on the wrong side, in terms of the tracks, knew that there was some­thing wrong with it. So then you either get down on it or you get away from it, so our attempt has been to change those kinds of things as subtly or as directly, but as quickly as possible.  goes back to I 789 when the first volume of black poetry was published in this country. I think that just abd'Ut everybody I read had some influence one way or the other. Martin Delaney, the father of black nationalism, David Walker, as well as the poets who· came through the Renaissance period, Countee Cullen, Claude McKay, Jean Toomer. I don't believe that there are any black writers or thinkers whose thoughts that I have read whose ideas do not fit into the time that  that in mind, there's a tremen­· developing. I suppose from the dous amount of influence and in­"South Carolina" tune and from spiration available for people who the tune on Detroit they figured are concerned about how we are that they would invite us so.that developed in this country. Musi­they would have somebody on the cally, it depends on what instru­show that would actually know ment I'm into at the time. If it's what they were talking about. the bass, I might want to hear Robert Christgau of the Village some Buskr Williams or some Voice started off his review Richard Davis. Sometimes it's talking about how, at least to his the keyboards. I like to hear Alice knowledge, we had produced Coltrane, some McCoy Tyner, more tunes about nuclear power some Cecil Taylor. Sometimes and the dangers of nuclear power it's the the sax and I'll listen to than the rest of MUSE put togeth-Pharoah Saunders, John -er. So in spite of the fact that the  •  
a letter I received from a 10 year­ they were writing and the history  Coltrane, and Archie Shepp. All  public  in general  seems  to  feel  
old girl telling me that some people at school tried to get her to try angel dust, but because she had heard our song about it, she knew it was bad and didn't do it. That's what it's all about. Q: Was there any one event, or  Q: What writers and musicians in­fluenced you the most in artistic terms? /' ve heard you mention people like Langston Hughes and Jean Toomer. Who were some others?  that we now accept as being a part of that chain that links all the way back to when the first slaves came over here to where we are now. There is an almost inescapable pattern that relates to the progress that the people made,  those people have at times provided the background music for whatever was happening with my life and have given me the sort of atmosphere that allowed me to be my most creative.  that John Hall or Pete Seeger are the only people in America ever concerned about nuclear power, we beg to differ and can document our differences. Since 1974, when I first heard of the waste depository down in Barnwell,  
any kind ofartistic catharsis that  not only in terms of their thinking,  South  Carolina,  aside  from  the  
made you know that this was what  but in terms of their potential to  proliferation  of  nuclear  power  
you wanted to do?  A: Well, all of them did, for the  grasp and transfer ideas that con­ Q: How did you get involved with  plants which started ten or twelve  
A: I'm not really an advocate of  most part.•You see  my master's  cern their situation in this society.  MUSE  (Musicians  United  for  years before that, there has been a  
the instant anything. I believe that  degree  comes  from  the  writing  I believe that anybody who writes  Safe Energy, promoters of the No  need for people to say something,  
my life and the experiences I had  seminars at Johns  Hopkins and  or creates something artistically,  Nukes album and film.) and how  to  have  some  sort  of  opinion  
in Tennessee w\len I was growing  I've been interested in writing for  either musically  or  literarily,  in  do you think that turned out?  about  nuclear  power.  The  only  
up living with  my grandmother,  as  long  as  I  can  remember.  whatever respect, all of them in­ A: Well, they called  me  up, and  things  that  Americans  can  deal  
who was a radical before anybody  There's a literary history of black  herit the legacy of those who did it  hopefully it didn't  turn  out yet.  with are crises, so even if they see  
knew  what  radical  meant.  She  people  writing  in  America  that  before them in this country. With  I'm pretty. pleased with how it's  something coming that ain't cor­ 


rect, they'll wait until it's a crisis so they can really have a nervous breakdown about it. (laughs) Per­Garry Trudeau sonally I never like to let things get so bad that there's nothing 
you can do about it but complain
fOR/3fl/T, za<&. 
MY 80YFRJ!fNOS NO PR/J8IIiM, 
and criticize. I would rather start 
1/RR/V!NG THIS MAN.H&CAN 
commenting on it the moment 
AFT"liRNOON. STAYON7HC 
that I see it going wrong, so thai at least for as long as it takes from that point on, I am able to make comments and try to influence people in some other direction. 
Anthony Walton's column, Outside Wednesday, will con­tinue on Friday's editorials page, when Gil Scott-Heron will answer questions on Reagan, racism and nuclear weapons. 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 
==IheDbsec~er== 
Editor·in-Cbief...................................... Paul Mullaney Features Editor.......................................Molly Woulfe Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Editor..........................................Mark Rust Photo Editor ........................ : ........ , ............ .john Macor 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Editorials Edttor.............................. Michael Onufrak Business Manager .............................. , ... Greg Hedges University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily Senior Copy Editor.....................Mary Fran Callahan reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reponed Executive 'Vews Editor.........................Tom jackman Controller····························"'········-······ ..........jim Rudd as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a News Editor ...............................................Lynne Daley Advertising Manager................. .................Mark Ellis majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views SMC Executive Editor.......................... Margie Brassil Advertising Sales Manager............Michael MeSally of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and SMC News Editor......................................Mary Leavitt Circulatio!f Manager............ : ............... Beth Hackett the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Sports Editor...........................................Beth Huffman Production Manager...........................john McGrath 
--------~-------~----­
...

The Observer---=--cco--.-_ 
~c:.c:1lC3L~=========================W=e=d=ne=s=d=ay=,=F=eb=r~u=~==2=5=,1=9=8=1===p=ag=e~S
Campus
Molarity Michael Molinelli 
•12: IS p.m. -seminar; isola­







ACROSS 1 Serve 5 Energy
The Daily Crossword 
agcy. 8 Flower,

• for short 12 Light or 
dust 13 Falters 15 Motherof 
Artemis 16 Brazil 
river 17 Burning 18 Wise 19 USwriter 22 lowacol­
lege seat 23 Bishop's authority 24 "The-yet to be" 
27 Stupefy 29 Capture 32 Placefor 
discards 33 Promenade 34-Daniels 
(silent star) 35 Creation 
of19A 38 Possessive 39.Shoo! 40 Parless 
two 41 Ocean 
llyer 42 Dwell 43 Diamond 
surfaces 44 Twitch 45 Regina's 
prov. 

46 Friends of35A 
53 Level 

54 Supernat­ural 55 Drive 57 Endure 58 VIce squad actions 
59 Webllke membrane 
60 Palo­
61 "Norma-" 
62 Printing term 
DOWN 
1 Recipe abbr. 2 Cousin of etc. 3 Not one 4 School 
activity 5 Berbers of Morocco 6 Big shot 
In Arabia 7 Guam port 8 World 
mock-up 9 Horne 
10 One of the Near Islands 
11 Ruin 

13 Road marks 
21 Cognizance 24 Use a tub 25 Rarefied 
atmosphere 26 Severe 27 Errant 28 Kingfisher 
cousin 29 Natural wool color 
30 Like­from the blue 
31 Hackman and Wilder 33 "I-ship a-salllng" 34 Power 
failures 36 Spectator 37 Brewer's 
need 42 Meet 43 Covers 
a bet 44 Ranger's 
pal 45 Underhand 46 Rue-
Paix 
47 Race track 46 Remainder 49 Four 
seasons 50 Melody 51 Allowance 
for waste tion and characterization of a 

protein requirt:d for transposi­
tion of tn3, dr. michael fen­
newald, u. ofchicago, room 27H •galvin. 
• 2-S p.m. -nd tax assistance 
program; Iafortune student cen­ter. 
•4:1 
S p.m. -lecture; christian conciliation service, rev. dr. lynn buzzard, ext·c. dir. chris­tian legal society, 101 law building. 

•4: 
I c; p.m. -history lecture; edward gibbon: history as an, prof. m.a. fitzsimons, nd mc:m. library lounge. 

•4:20 
p.m. -physics collo­quium; cosmic rays, dr. g. yodh, 

u. 
ofmaryland, room I I H nsh. 

•7 
p.m. -tllm; a woman of paris ( 19.23 ), arch. building, room 202, s1. 

•7, 
9, I p.m. -film; silver streak, en gr. aud., S I admission. 

•7:30 
p.m. -lecture, the chris­tian moral vision of justice, rc:v. 

j. 
bryan hehir, dir. office: of int'l justice & peace, carroll hall (smc). 

•H 
p.m. -black cultural arts festival; marva collins, teacht•r & creator of west side preparatory school, mem. library aud. 

•s 
p.m. business dub meeting; card-carrying mem­bers invited to attend, k. of c. hall. 


BengalBouts return Sunday 
The 5 I st edition of the: Notre Dame Bengal Bouts will commence Sunday afternoon in the Athletic and Convocation Ct·ntt·r at I:30 with quarterfinal action. Under the direc­
-

tion of first-year bout director Dr. Richard llunter, the Bc:ngals program ht·ads into its second half­century hoping to continue the fund-raising and boxing traditions carried out by bout director emeritus Dominick 'Nappy' Napolitano ti.>r the last "iO years. 
All proceeds from ticket sales will go to the lloly Cross Missions of Bangladesh. Studt·nt season tickt·t packages for Sunday's card, Wednes­day's (March 4) st·mlfinals and next Saturday's (March 7) are available at the ACC for S2. Individual tickets for the quarterfinal and semifinal rounds an· prin·d at S2 for ringside and SI.SO for general admission • (lower arena). · 
Tickets for the tlnals, whkh will he: aired for tht· third consc:t·utive year by NBC's SportsWorld, arc listed at S3 ti.>r ringside: seating and S2 for general admission stubs. 
14 Voluptuous 52 Roue's All Rights Reserved 20 Luigi's look ©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 
friend 56 Dine 
1981 

BENGAL BOUTS NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNJON'S 
SPRING BREAK IN DAYTONA BEACH 
Sunday March 1 

THINK ABOUT ITI
Wednesday March 4 

GUARANTEED TO Saturday March 7 [ BE'A GREAT TRIP 
(ast dayfor signups... 
Support your favorite boxer. BUY YOUR TICKET TODAY!! 
/,'

~rc~1 office!,wed feb 25 

I I I 
l 
J 


~··­
The Observer Wednesday, February 25, 1981 -page 6 
0 

-
To Division I status 

McManus helps turn corner 

ATTENTION: PRE~-ftnED STUDENTS---.. 
How will you finance your medical education? Tuition costs at medical colleges throughout the country are increasing at an alarming rate. Student loans and grants are often inadequate to cover even minimum expenses associated with a four-year n1edical curriculum. 
The Army Hea~lth Pro1ressions Scholarship· Program may be the solution to your problem. We will pay the full cost of medical school tui­tion and required expenses for books, supplies and equipment. Furtherrr1ore, you will receive a monthly stipend of $485, which is scheduled to be increased in July, 198"1. In return, you agree to a promise for future service as a Military Medical Officer. Graduate senior medical stu­dents apply for Army Graduate Medical Educa­tion ....you will be surprised at th~ quality of our training pro~)rams, the desirable locations of our Medical Centers and the salaries of our residents. 
The Army Heallth Professions Scholarship Program currently p'rovides financial support for more than 1400 medical students . ...we hope that we can help you also. Call for details. 
CPT. GARY R. PLACEK 

AMEDD Personnel Procurement Ofc· 
Box 7 Hawley Army Health Clinic 
Fort Benjamin Harrison~ Indiana 46216 
(317) 542-2792 collect, station-to-station 
DONNA WITZLEBEN 
Sports Writer 
"If you don't push yourself, the team won't improve. You have to push yourself in order to improve." said Tricia McManus, a veteran for­ward for Notre Dame's women's bas­ketball team. 
McManus, a S-ll junior froll) Oak Ridge, Tenn., has been on the team since her freshma11. year. She 1 averaged seven points a game as a rookie and nine points per game her sophomore year. This season, along with the second highest minutes played total for the Irish, McManus is averaging seven points a game. She also gets her share of rebounds with six per outing. 
McManus has seen the women's basketball program take a big lei!P into Division I play. The team now holds a 9-13 record. "There are a lot of obvious changes schedule-wise," she said. "Our schedule is tougher and our coaches are better. It is a real switch because your attitude has to change. The pressure is on ­not so muclh the pressure to win, but there is pressure in practice and you have to take a very positive attitude towards it. Sometimes it is hard be­cause we work things out in practice and then in the game it just doesn't click." 

Notre Dame Head Coach Mary DiStanislao speaks very highly ofher veteran forward. "Tricia is quite a leader and she always gives a good effort. She is quite deceptiv<'" in that she appears laid back, but she is real­ly our most consistently aggressive player. She is a terrific kid." 
McManus reciprocates her coach's feelings. "Coach DiStanislao 
continuedfrom page 8 
"You know, it's really funny," he says, "because this is similar to the way my high school career went. I didn't really play too much my fresh­man year, and my sophomore year was just mediocre. I didn't really peak until my junior and senior years. Things are going the same way here, so I guess I'm not too upset." 
Varner may not be too upset now, is a really good coach. She knows baskc:ibaii inside and out. I've learned a tremendous amount this year from her. I have a lot ofrespect for her." 
The team has two games left this season and then it -is on to the Divi­sion I tournament. Whatever the outcome, you can be sure that Tricia McManus will be back next year, bringing her leadership and talent to help build a strong foundation for a rapidly improving women's basket­ball program at Notre Dame. 
• • .Varner 
but last spring, he was upset enough 
to contemplate a transfer. 
"Yeah, I was thinking about it," 
says the New Kensington, Pa., r)'ltive. 
"It's so hard to come to a school after 
playing so much in high school, and 
then not play at aP. Like last year, I 
think Villanova was the first game I 
didn't play. I was so mad, I felt like 
crying. I think I got dressed before 
the kids even got back to wait for 
autographs. 
"After something like that hap­
pens, you start thinking of all the 
schools you could be playing at, and 
scoring all these points. I think my 
parents wanted me to transfer. My 
mom was really mad that I wasn't 
playing more, and that's unusual be­
cause she normally doesn't get very 
upset. But neither one of (my 
parents) ever said anything. I stayed 
because the way I look at it is, once 
you make a decision, you have an 
obligation to stick to it and make it 
work. So I figured I'd stick it out. 
"I guess it has just taken me a while to adjust to his his type of play," Varner says. "You look at a guy likeJohn (Paxson)-he was able to come in and adjust right away -but it has just taken me a little longer. I'm starting to get a lot more confi­dent and comfortable on the floor, 
though." 
One of the persons who has helped, and is helping Varner through any rough times, is senior 
tri-captain Orlando Woolridge. 
"'0' is a very unusual person," says Varner chuckling. "He's pretty crazy. But he's been a big brother­type person to me. In fact, he was the main reason I came here, him and Dave Waymer. When I visited here, they showed that they were really interestetl in me, not like some of the other schools I looked at, where they didn't really care ifl went there or not. All the players here seemed like they really wanted me to come." 
Bill Varner is very quiet when he talks, almost to the point ofshyness. This shyness lends itself to a belief that he is a very sincere person. One has no trouble believeing him when he says: "I like signing autographs; I think it's fun. If there were a hundred people waltmg for autographs after a game, I'd stay un­til the last one was signed. When you see a little kid standing there, with these big eyes, there's nothing you can do -you gotta sign it. If you don't, it might break his heart." 
Varner has a dream of playing in the NBA, a dream he has entertained since he was very young. He also says, "It would be nice to be a lawyer." Either way, his goal is to make a lot ofmoney. 
"I've always had this dream," he says. "I always wanted to be rich and make all this money, because this dream I have is to walk through a poor neighborhood just throwing money out to all the little kids. That would be kind of neat." 
Bill Varner, humanitarian? Yeah, maybe. Bill Varner, upst:t college athlete? Yeah. maybe. 
Bill Varner. sincere nice·gu), soon-to-be· college super~tar~ Yeah, probably. 


The Observer Wednesday, February 25, 1981.-page 1 
-

• • .Wilcox 
Classifieds 
NOTICES  LUST: MEN'S FUR LINED LEATHER GLOVES IN BP ON JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND. CALL 1284.  We need one housemate lor 81-82. Please call Paula Groves at 287-6916 or Lo1s Kennedy at 3848  Blast-off: Entering the World of Work Sem1nar concerning the Transition from College to the World of Work and  THE N.J. CLUB HAS ONLY 5 SEATS LEFT ON THE BUS. CALL CHRIS AT 4479 OR KEVIN AT 7687 TO RESERVE  151 MORRISSEY II only you knew helpII need a flda to Lake Forest Col·  
Comments on Ihe First Few Years after  YOUR SEATill  lege (Just north of Chicago) Fnday Aft  
PROFESSIONAL TYPING. Term papers, theses, etc. Tape transcriptiOn. Last year's same low pnces. All work guaranteed. aardvark automatic solu· tiona. 289-6753  LOST: TI58C CALCULATOR IN NORTH DINING HALL ON ll'o 1Wo81. CALL KAREN AT 1263. LOST, one LEACH raquetball rack­et... brown... if found please call  I need a ride to Denver at Break. Call John at 1177 Need a nde to Florida. Will share the usual. Call Bob 1049  College pesented by recent SMC graduates Saturday. Feb. 28 9:00-12:00 AM Carroll Hall, Made leva SMC Four years in Notre Dame? Why not buy a house and live almost rent free.  The Death Star 1s ready.. ATTENTION CILA MEMBERS II FRIDAY IS the DEADLINE lor applymg lor a CILA OFFICERSHIP Call Tom at 3104.  Will share usuals. Call J1m 8638 DOMER DICTIONARY Scunge Man: n 1 lover of dead rats 2. possessor of ab· solute -obnmuousness 3. the tact-less won­ 
DON'T WALK ALONE Ill GET AN ESCORT! II Student Escort Service-On·Call Sun to Thura 7 to M1d"'ght. Call 6283 (OBUD) At the NO Library 10 to 11 45 pm. All student Volunteers USEITIIIIII DON T BE AFAID TO CALLI  6882 . alter 11 :00. LOST· Georgetown Jersey last Thursday in ACC Fieldhouse. If found, call Jell 8644 ...................................................... Found. 1 pair of Keys, 3 Keys on ring at Rockne Gym Phone1487 to 1dent1ly.  FOR SALE F~;·s~i~•'STANLEvi<.\Pl.AN MEoc.\1 Manuals $50. Call Brian 1847  Lei your eqUity pay your rent. Call Motts at House of Realty for details, 289-7966 or674-8512 even1ngs. SENIOR BAR SENIOR BAR SENIOR BAR SENIOR BAR SEMI-FORMAL  CILA MEMBERSII DON'T MISS ITII FRIDAY IS the last day lo apply lor a CILA OFFICERSHIPII Call Tom at 3104 by FRIDAY. Got a mmute? Get a dale I Celebrallon Registration· MONDA VI  der syn. Ray -Paw-Paw. n mythical home of the Pool God, and copacet1c1sm ............... ............. .. VOLUNTEERS NEEDED 1 Tutor II yr. old. Math & Social Studies. 2 Recopy. In large pnnt. 100 pgs. of a Math book for a teacher gomg blind  
USED & OUT·OF-PRINT BOOKS bought, sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS rues-Sunday. 12-6. 1027 E. Wayne (One block south of Eddy· Jellerson mtersect1on)  LOST BLACK WALLET AT THE A. C.C.. THURSDAY, FEB ~9. REWARD IF FOUND. CALL 232-0760. LOST GOLD BENRUS LADY'S WRISTWATCH IN LIBRARY AUD. ON2­ TICKETS  SEMI-FORMAL SEMI-FORMAL MARCH t YES SUNDAY NIGHT 9:00 ·2 00 $15.00 PER COUPLE TICKETS AT SENIOR BAR  I will pay ANYONE Willing lo be Mike G.'s "screw-your-roommate" date for Mar. 6. call Jack 3263. P.S. Vole Garvey for U. M.O.C. ...........................  3.Tutor 10 yr. old on Fractions Contact Volunteer Services. 7308 .. ......... .. .................... .. K1m, II you prom1se not to rape me In H H I won't tel) any more H.O. ·a. 9'er  
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Emergency loana lor NO students. $20­$200. One percent 1nterest. Due 1n one month. Open 11 3!1-12:30. M-F. Base­ment of LaFortne. Final day lor seniors to apply 1s Fr~day. March 13  16 IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL TERESA AT2156. LOST: A PAIR OF EYEGLASSES, LIGHT BROWN FRAMES IN A NAVY CASE LOST FEB. 12.FRI. CALL SUSAN AT 7659.  NEEDEOII 2 DAYTON GA TIX FOR PARENTS. GOOD $$$ PLEASE CALL FRANK AT 8295 ........................................................... Need many Dayton Stu and GAs. Call Monica at 41-5154 ..............................................................  Ann Landers says: Have a .problem? Can't sleep? Can't work? Can't? Killed anyone recently? Constipated? Fall down and go boo­boo? Well, all you have lo do is GET  Need r~ders lo Cal1for"'a. Leavmg ~ 12 Call (SMC) 5425 or (NO) 8420 Need nders to New York City area. Leaving march 13. Call (SMC) 5196 or 4961 for all other exciting details.  NEED RIDE TO FLORIDA , prelerably Ft. Lauderdale area. for 4 girls. Will share usual We wouldn't mmd split­ting mto 2 and 2 So call 11 you have room for two or four Ask for LESLIE or MAUREEN 7936.  
CRYSTAL ROCKS at Fat Wally's thiS Saturday. Feb 28 Come and get rowdy w1th good-t1me Rock'n Roll by CRYS­TAL  LOST COMP GOVT NOTEBOOK, LEFT ON COPY MACHINE IN LAFORTUNE. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL MARK t886.  NEED 4 DAYTON TICKETS, GA OR STUDENT. 232-0982 .............................. .......... Need two Dayton GAs$$$ J1m 277-0331  COUNSELING I AS BOOKSTORE BBALL AP­PROACHES TAKE TIME OUT TO VISIT 151 MORRISSEY. HOME OF MECONI  ROBERTA THE VIGILANTE, TAKING HATS OFF SLEEPING DRUNKS IS LOW.IT'S SHOT GLASSES A TTWENTY PACES I GLEET  Lost. Am way brown attache case with Aloe Vero Info ms1de and other 1mpor· tant paper II found call lndependenl Cab Co. 234-0300 or 234-0932 and ask lor Rev.  
Need nde to DetrOit-Southfield weekend of March 8 Call Dick 1464.  Ne~d··;;~~· ii~vi~n· ci:.\·~.··~~,,·c;h;i~··~i x8619  AND BOURRETT .. ALAS. IN PANGBORN.  LEO  LIVED  DEAREST JOHN LECHNER, We can't seem to catch you! We're  RYAN VER BERKMOES FOR UMOC THERE IS NO DOUBT  
THERE ARE ONLY 5 SEATS LEFT ON THE NEW JERSEY CLUB BUS FOR SPRING BREAK CALL CHRIS AT 4479 OR KEVIN 7687 BETWEEN 6-10 PM FOR MORE INFO Ill lnsh Flyers Flying Club acceptmg new members. Student p1lota welcome. Call Ext 4234 8AM-5PM WASHINGTON, D.C. CLUB BUS. THE 0 C. CLUB WILL HAVE SIGN UPS FOR ITS SPRING BREAK BUS TODAY FROM 6·8 P M IN THE LAFORTUNE BALLROOM AND THURSDAY FROM 6­7.15 PM IN THE BALLROOM. THE BUS LEAVES FRIDAY PM. MARCH 13 ANORETURNSSUNDAYA.M, MARCH 22. COST OF ROUND TRIP IS $60. YOU MUST PAY WHEN YOU SIGN UP NO REFUNDS BOSTON SPRING BUS FINAL SIGNUP TUES MAR 3. 7-9 LaFortune Brmg $50 depos1t Bua lea\18S Mar 13. Round Trlp-$100. Oues11ona?? M1ke 2836 NEED RIDE FOR 2 OR 4 GIRLS TO FLORIDA AREA, PREFERRABL Y FT. LAUDERDALE AREA. OVER SPRING BREAK WILL SHARE USUAL PLEASE CALL LESLIE OR MAUREEN AT 7936 LOST/FOUND  FOR RENT FoR.RENr·::.:.·ual.Y.ouci<i.iNC:iRENT~ A-CAR FROM $7.95 A DAY AND 7 CENTS A MILE. PHONE 259-UGLY FOR RESERVATIONS. For next school year, lurmshed houses. walk to campus. 277-3604o 288-0955 WANTED Need nde to Dallas area lor sprmg break. Will share expenses. Call rona at 3704. Need nde to Jersey tor break. Will supply necess1t1es. Call Don 6718 .............. NEED RIDE TO PITISBURGH AREA THURS. FEB 26 OR FRI. FEB. 27. CAN OFFER RETURN TRANSPORTATION. CALL TIM 8933. ............\... .. .......................... DESPERATELY NEEDED -4 Dayton GA's Will pay BIG BUCKS for them I Please call Carol x2849. need nde to chicago for break mary Iran 7992 need a nde back to NO from the Cleveland area thiS Sun. March 1 Call 1333  Need 3 Dayton T1ckets GA or Student Call: Tom 234-1367 .......................................,........... ,.......... .. Need lour Dayton tickets. Call Eileen at 6042. 1 NEED 2 DAYTON GA·s. MY i.int:E BROTHERS HAVE THEIR HEARTS SET ON GOING TO THE GAME. PLEASE CALL JOE AT 8306. .............................................................. I NEED 2·4 GA'S FOR DAYTON CALL BOB AT 4641 •wiLL.rFiiioE.Mv.i'ii:israOFiN i'oii2 DAYTON TIX GA'S ONLY •• CALL BRIAN AT 8929 AFTER MIDNIGHT ATIENTION PROFIT MAXIMIZING ENTREPRENEURS; NYC Bankers offer to make you rich In exchange for 2 G.A. TIX 10 Dayton game. call John at 234­5782. IN DIRE NEED OF 2 GA OR STUDENT TIX FOR OAYTONIIII Call KATHY at 289·5026. MEGA BUCKS INVOLVED. PERSONALS JANE-0. WHY DO YOU HATE SCOOP?  same as 1t ever was OTIS IS GROTEST UGLY MAN IS COMING I Save your pennies I UMOC IS an equal opportumty chanty. THE GREAT BOOKS-·THE GREAT MINOS MEET FACULTV AND STU­DENTS OF THE GENERAL PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES MONDAY. MARCH2, 7:30 P.M.,GRACE PIT open a door to the sophomore literary festiVal march 1-7 MUP, HAPPY 221 DON'T GET SICK (FROM DRINKING OR ANYONE--I MEAN ANY­THING ELSE). M.OD,SPECS,K Jell Jeffers lor UMOC BENGAL BOUTS BENGAL BOUTS STARTS SUNDAY, MARCH 1. BE THERE TO SEE THE BEST IN CAMPUS BOXING GOOD LUCK TO FRITZ, NASC. DAN, AND ALL THE REST. .... . . . . . . . . . . . . ....' .. . . . .... . . .' . . . . . . . . .. . .. . .... . . . . .. . . . . BUY YOUR BENGAL BOUT TICKETS TODAY Ill! GOOD LUCK TO ALL DILLON BOXERS IF.BRUCEISTHEBOSS, JERRY IS THE LORD  hooked on your pictures but are you lor real?? LOVE AND KISSES. BUNNY AND TINA BILL 'GRIZZ" NELLIST FOR UMOC ai:iizz PuT rHE . uati :tN ualY Th~ ~b~~e has been pa1d lor by Citizens for Gnzz SECRET ADMIRER, THANK YOU FOR THE ROSES FOR ST. V'S I'D LIKE TO THANK YOU IN PERSON. SUE My Little Old Love Bov1ne Explam to you I muss, that my flagrant smack on your fam11iar lipS, was no more, I han a friendly peck on what I deemed to be a not so happy lookmg puss. Your Luv Pup of Old BOSTON II SIGNUP FOR SPRING BUS MAR 3, 7-9 LaFortune. $50 non refund. deposit required, or brmg full payment ol$100 for round tnp. Ouest ions? Mike 2836 or J1m 1528. BOSTON SPRING BUS II BOSTON BUS DETAILS AT SIGNUP TUESDAY. LEAVES THE 131h RETURNS THE 22nd. CONGRATULATIONS TO ALL THE DIL­LON HOCKEY PLAYERS FOR THEIR FINE PERFORMANCE LAST NIGHTIII DILLON 'BIG RED' STILL AND AL­ FREE SENIOR FORMAL BIOI Semor Bar Raffle-Tomorrow Night. Don't m1ss the Celebration I Marty, Thanks lor being the opt1m1sl thai you are. I hope everything that comes out of you 11 good, too Remember -only four months '1111 won't be able to assoc1a1e Wllh you (Bad lor busmess. you know) Let's make the most olthese Tuesday nights untlllhen Elizabeth Connechcul? Who ev~r g.;.;~ to Con· nectlcut? Believe 1t or not, I live there So I need a nde there for spnng break lllsharednvmgande•penses. plus I'm really fun to dnve w1th Please call Bflan at8394 PAULA Da1ry Oueen /USI hasn I been lhe same Without you. Remember to say your prayers ton1ght and maybe MARTHA Will answer them THESUGARCONEHEAO Needed R1ders to St Louis area (Illinois s1de) lor spnng break Call El­len6781 Mark, sorry I m1ssed you Both n1ghts D1ane ll's great to be backlll George Harnson (remember h1m?) 11 celebrat1ng hiS 38th birthday today. Remember him when you smg My Sweet Lord" (or'" 1t He s So Fine?")  
Lost coat '" front of Law School Sat. Blue w gold silk linmg YSL label. Call Law School and leave message lor John A Dougherty 283·6627 PLEASEIII The coat has Great sen­timental value W1ll gadly reward ftn­der. LOST ONE 14 KT GOLD BRACELET WITH INITIALS PLEASE CALL 4336  Need ride to ST LOUIS the weekend ol Feb 28 or Mar 7. Call Bob at 1066 NEED RIDE TO ROCKFORD. IL ON FEB. 27, WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL PETE AT 1609. Need ride to Ch1cago Saturday m.or­nmg. Call John H1ggins at 8553 or 1715.  HOW FAA CAN $6 SEND vou? ALL THE WAY TO NEW ORLEANS! SMC SENIOR CLASS PRESENTS A SUITCASE PARTYI FEB. 26 AT LEE'S. CHECK POSTERS FOR TICKET LOCA­TIONS. EVEN A ROOM IN MOTEL 6 COSTS $11.951 SECOND PRIZE SENDS YOU TO THE SENIOR FORMAL. SMC  THE GRATEFUL DEAD IN CHICAGO-­THURSDAY FUNERAL FRIDAY--THE FOURTH FLOOR l:is:.\ Huor. rHANi<s FoR THE PHONE CALLS I P S. TIME IS RUNNING OUT THE STUDS IN 452  WAYSNo.l.. BENGAL BOUTS . BENGAL BOUTS BENGAL BOUTS MARCH 1, 4, AND 7TH. BE THEREIIII BLURBER HAPPY BIRTHDAY Ill RONES .... . . ..' .' . . . . ..' .. . .. . . . .'....' .' . . . . '... . .' . . .  Tony, What are you domg Saturday alter­noon? Diane Nancy Ryan. I'll be countmg the moments unt1l the neat encounter Shall I bnng -.e glasss? WJMJr  
LOST EYEGLASSES, RIMLESS. BROWN CASE. 127 NIEUWLAND. LAST THUPISDAY CALL JOE 1183 LOST. AT BP PARTY FRIDAY NIGHT. RED PLAID SCARF PLEASE CALL 1284  RIDERS ~~· UM;~;;;i, Ohl~. L~~~~. 2:27. Inday. 4 :30 Call Hutch 8918. NEED RIDE TO TAMPA OR SURROUNDING AREA FOR SPRING BREAK. WILL SHARE EXPENSES CALL ROSIE AT 4165 (SMC).  SENIOR CLASS SUITCASE PARTY AT LEE'S FEB. 26. ............ ....................... .. PresentatiOn & DISCUSSIOn How tO Identify a Drmkmg Problem and What to do About II." Monday. March 2 6:00 PM Room 28 Holy Cross Hall. SMC  :.\ii~~t~~~··l'lo· ;;;~~~··;;.,~~·L;~· M~;i~ Hannum is now modeling her new hatr style for all mterested men at 228 Lew1s Hall TYPING MY HOME, UNIV PARK AREA 277-3085  These were no ordinary cows. These were RENEGADE COWS Ill AN TOSTAL ~~~~~~~~~ 1t~.. ;;~i or­ga"'zahonal meeting. Sunday March 1st in the LaFortune Little Theate• at 7:00pm. All Invited to participate.  Grinch. return my one·pomtl 0 ·Where does one find the maJOr man· made waterway '" the Yukon? A. Across the ISthmoose.l thmk. (Geography 18 boring.) Moose Control  


force for tbe Notre Dame U'Omen's basketball team in its transition to Divi­sion/ play. (See related slOT)' onfJage 6) 
amtinuedfrom page 8 
So Wilcox has resigned himself, or, better yet, ded­icated himself to education at Notre Dame. He has maintained a 3.0 average in economics since a grade scare at mid-semestt"r in Octoht"r of his freshman yt"ar and set a course for his future away from the basketball court. 
"Knowkdge is the most important thing going in the world," says :Wilcox. "My goal throughout lift' is to he able to assume as much knowkdgt.· as I possibly can. I likt" economics because it deals with prohkms that arc going on right now and prohkms that art· going to become: much worse in the future. I'd likt' to combine my knowledge of economics with a situation dealing with poverty people -people that rt·ally don,'t get tht· chance to assume km>wledge and have to turn to other people. I'd like to bring them some cnlightt·nmt·nt as far as knowing their environment." 
While some athletes find life without games a suft(>cating cxpericnct:, Wilcox seems to have comt.· to an t'arly realization that he doesn't want to spend the rest of his days in mourning, choking on memorks. lk refuses to attack Diggt.·r, as well. 
"Thert."s no hatt' or clash involved bctwn·n us," says Silky. "It's just that h(."s not letting any ballplayer that comes through here change his personality and I'm not 
I 

ktting a coach or anybody change my personality. We ~oth have a lot of rt."spect for t"ach other a.~ a person. 
"I ft"ell've got a direction in lift' and I'm going to live that life tht' way I want to," ht' says. "It's going to take a whik for pt.•oplc hack homt' to unt.krstand Stan Wilcox as ht.· is now. That's kind of sad hn·ause haskt'thall is only a minute part ofme, a minllle part oflift-. Baskt·thall didn't blossom the way I wanted it to, hut l'vt· learned much more hert• than I t•ver expel'ted." 
Wilcox sc:es two or thrc:e years of European hall or semi-pro hall in his immt·diatc: futun·, only because ht· feels tht·re's still somt· baskethall left in his system. From tht:re, howt.·ver, graduate work and c:mployment in a service-rdated Held in New York is tht.• plan. 
"New York is still the biggest. best city in the world." says Silky. With a gt.·sture to an t·ast window of Tbe Huddle. he adds, "Evt·rything comes from tbttl·tt-II'UI'· Besidt·s, that's where my roots art·, that's whne 1;1y family is and that's whne (my wife) Linda's t;unily is. That's whert· I'd like to ht•." 
Like Stan says, once 1he peop!c: hack home gt·t to know him as he is now -four }'t'ars olt.kr and so much wist·r -tlu~y'll lind the real gamt·s art·n't measured in playing time. 
Stan Wilcox sure isn't. 

~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
• 

r 
' 
~ 
-· 
'
' 
' 


Varner fills sui> role patiently 
Now no one ever said the adjust· on a two-year plan. The plan goes
By MARK HANNUKSELA 

ment to big time co:llege basketball something like this: Recruits come
Sports Writer 

was going to be easy. It never is at a in and get enough playing time so place like Notre Dame, where all· that when they're sophomores,The Notre Dame media guide says everything high school players they're ready to contribute.
of Bill Varner "... rates as complete BOOK OF THE MONTH CLUB? -:-A special press conference hascome in and have to re-adjust to a Bill Varner is now a sophomore,ballplayer who combines quickness been scheduled for Friday morning at I 0 .a.m. at the Morris Inn tonew system. But no one ever said it and while he isn't contributing asand shooting ability on court ... 

announce the release of Digger Phelps' second book, entitled Diggercouldn't be done either. much as he'd like, he's definitelyaveraged better than 27 points, I5 
Phelps and Irish Basketball. The book, co-authored by Notre Dame
"Everyone here has had the same contributing.
rebounds and five assists pergame as graduate and ex-WNDU-TV reporter Pat 'Chip' Scanlon, should beproblem," says Varner. "You see a "Bill Varner made the play of the

a senior ... " 

available for purchase at the bookstore on Friday afternoon. 
guy like Barry Spencer going game," says his coach of Varner's
The current Notre Dame Sports 

Should you wish to have the book signed, Phelps will attend anthrough the same thing right now steal in the waning moments ofSun­Information release says of Bill Var­autograph party at the bookstore on Saturday morning from I 0 a.m. tothat I did last year. ll:'s just so hard, day's game against Virginia.
ner "... averaging better than five II a.m.

you know." "Everybody talks about the last tenpoints, two rebounds, one assist and Irish coach Digger Phelps has said seconds, but there would not haveeighteen minutes playing time per GUNNING FOR THE FLYERS -Saturday afternoon's matchup with that recruiting here is basically done been a last ten seconds if it weren't game ..." the always-high Dayton Flyers, scheduled for a 1:30 p.m. start, marks 
for Billy's steal. He's got a role on this 

the 17th meeting between the two schools. The Irish own a 10-6 edge
team, and he's playing well in that 

in the all-time series, the frrst installment of which was contested. in 
role. He's becoming a very good 

1909. The series has been renewed annually since 1970, with the Irishplayer." 
winning seven of the last 11 meetings including a 62-54 decision last
Varner has had other moments 
season.
when his contributions to this Irish 

Dayton always plays intensely against the Irish, and many seniors 
team have been significant. Five 

still remember the 66-59 setback the Flyers handed the Irish at the
times this season, Varner has scored 

end ofthe I977-78 season, throwing a damper on Notre Dame's upset
in double figures, including a career 

ofdefending national champion Marquette only one week before. 
-high of I2 against Fordham. In the second Irish meeting with YES, VIRGINIA, THE SHOT DID COUNT -Many upperclassmen

San Francisco, Varner got the first 

may also recall the I979 Dayton game, in which then-sophomore Or­
start of his Notre Dame career and 

lando Woolridge established himself in dunk-dom with his frrst 360
scored ·six points, grabbed five 

degree, behind-the-back, over-the-head (from the pike position) stuff.
rebounds, and dished out a team 

Woolridge, the most recent addition to the long and crowded line of
high IO assists in 38 minutes of ac­

Irish heros, earned NBC Sports' most valuable player honors for his
tion. Varner also started last Mon­

last second shot on Sunday afternoon. 
day's near disaster with Fairfield, and 

The Mansfield, Louisiana native has scored in double figures in 3 7 
scored seven points in 36 minutes. 

straight games and boasts a .665 ( I3I-I97) field goal percentage for
That's the kind ofplaying time Bill 

the season, good for third place in NCAA rankings. Woolridge could
Varner got us€d to in high school, 

very well shatter Bruce Flowers' single season field goal efficiency 
and that's the kind ofplaying time he 

record of.656 ( I07-I63) set during the 1978-79 campaign.
would like to see in college. But he's not too worried. He's seen it all 

LOST HORIZON -The Rosemont Horizon is without doubt one ofbefore. 
the most poorly equipped and uncomfortable sports arenas the Irish See V~R, page 6 
have played in all season. Evidence ofthis ranges from the inadequate parking facilities and lack ofpublic rest rooms, to the reformatory-like decor (inside and outside) and scant leg-room. Even the locker rooms were a level above the court so that players had to go up and down
In classroom 

steps in order to get back and forth. All this was further complicated last Sunday by a cold rain which converted several unpaved parking lots into quagmires. Chicago should have smartened up and built an
Wilcox finds 11ew direction 
efficient public arena without the corner-cutting which characterizes the Horizon. • 
"...Playing time is.._ not what Stan Wilcox is about." 


HOMEWARD BOUND -Before the Irish face Dayton on Saturday, TracyJackson 
they will entertain the Red Flash ofSt. Francis on Thursday evening at the ACC. The Irish own a smudgeless 6-0 slate against St. Francis, and The capacity crowd in North Babylon High School's 
enjoyed a relatively easy 96-43 victory during their last meeting over under-sized gymnasium was an overwhelming back­
Christmas break in I979. drop for the final home appearance ofNew York State's 
Notre Dame boasts an impressive I4-I record in the ACC this soon-to-be Class AAA champions. Indiana Head Coach 
season, and an overall mark of 162-28 (.853 winning percentage) Bobby Knight and assorted cohorts from the ranks of 
since the facility opened in I968. Over the last nine seasons, Phelps­NCAA basketball institutions provided the celebrity at­
coached Irish squads have suffered only 10 defeats in I2I homeWilcox. "Sophomore year was when Digger hadmosphere Long Islanders had come to expect when­games.
promised me my chance to start. I really thought it wasever North Babylon took the court. 
I DIDN'T KNOW IT WAS LOADED -The Irish have been shootinga little too soon because the style ofplayer I am and theOfcourse, there was one player who had Knight and the lights (or at least the backboards) out of most every place theystyle ofplay Digger runs are almost like two opposites. Ithe rest of the recruiting hounds drooling -namely have played this season. Their .559 team field goal percentage stoodfolilnd a lot of difficulty in making that transition fromStan Wilcox. 
second to Oregon State's 575 clip last week, bu~ their 510 (25-49)tbe free-wheeling, open-court type player 1was in highThe kid they call 'Silky' was, according to the Hoosier effort against Virginia pulled that average down to its present .557
school to a more regulated game (from the coachingleader, the best high school guard in the class of '77. 
percent level.

st2udpoint) where Digger's making all the decisionsWilcox didn't disappoint Knight, either. Silky played his 
The Irish sharpshooters have hit better than 50 percent of their customary, complete game that evening -fast­
and calling all the plays." 
floor shots in all but two games this year and have topped the 60 breaking, wheeling, dealing, scoring and robbing the 
Wilcox, like any player, went through some depress­
percent plateau eight times. In fact, the school standard of 53 percent opposing backcourt blind -and every move made was 
ing times when he began to see the playing .time fade 
set during the 1973-74 season is in jeopardy. smooth as...Well, you know. · 
away. He never became another Ray Martin -the Irish 
BORN TO RUN -Senior All-American Chuck Aragon may eclipse But Indiana was not the place for Wilcox. Nor 
point guard ofthe mid-seventies. He never got to show 
the magic four minute barrier in the mile this weekend. He ran a 
that Nevada-Las Vegas style of play Sports IllustratedSyracuse, nor Rutgers -the other universities in WiJ­4:00.24 anchor leg for the Irish distance medley team at the Central once called his forte. No, Wilcox just brought himselftocox' final four. 
Collegiate Championships over the weekend, and competition at the No, Silky wanted to play ball at Notre Dame. And all 
an understandingwith Phelps about returning to a fill-in 
pntstigious Illini classic in Cha111paign, Ill. could be all the incentive kinds of folks back in New York still wonder what ever 
role once it became apparent players like Bill Hanzlik 
Aragon needs. happened to Stan Wilcox and where he went wrong. 
were developing from Notre Dame guards into first 
Not only did the distance medley team of Jacques Eady, Rick Not only friends, but family members have expressed 
round NBA draft choices. But Silky didn't seriously con­
Rogers, Tim Macauley and Aragon qualify for the NCAA Indoor Cham­disappointment with Stan's situation at Notre Dame. 
sider leaving school. 
pionships, but they did so running for the first time together in I981. "I feel bad that I have a lot of friends back home" 
"I didn't want to transfer because I was happy here," Aragon has thus qualified for the NCAA Indoor Championships in the he· says. "My main purpose here was getting a degreeWilcox reflects, "who have been close to me but dod•t mile and half mile along with the distance medley team. Teammatethat really meant something. Basketball here was like aunderstand me now because they haven't been with me 
Steve Dziabis only fell 1.2 seconds shy of the NCAA qualifying stan­these last four years. · 
lot of things in life -losing a girlfriend or something dard for the 600-yard run and could make the l:I0.2 time at Cham­liJ,;e that. I've just learned through the experience and"When I ld't North Babylon to come to Notre Dame," paign as well. 
trlied to broaden myself as a human being. I think I'vehe continues, "everybody saw me as Stan Wilcox the WHAT YOU DON'T KNOW WON'T HURT YOU -One of the bestgrown and matured because I know for a fact, basketball basketball player. And that's all they're seeing when I kept secrets around Notre Dame is that Irish women's coach Maryisn't everything." 
come back home, that's all they relate to." On the court, there have been special moments for DiStanaslao has been searching for her I OOth career coaching victory
What 'they' see is Stan Wilcox sitting on the Notre 
for the past two weeks.

Wilcox. The 6-3 guard was instrumental in two wins In fact, it was such a secret that DiStanastao did not even know Dame bench. Rarely, in this; his senior year, has Silky 
over UCLA. Two fre1~ throws at Pauley Pavilion in 1979 about it. 
been called on by Irish cOMh Digger Phelps at a mo­

clinched an 8I-78 Irish win and eight points last season When Mary D. arrived here last spring, her career totals from ment when the outcome is still on the line. With the 
against the Bruins in the ACC contributed to Notre Northwestern incorrectly listed her as 89-27, when in fact she was addition of seven recruits to the Notre Dame squad in 
D:1me's 77-74 victory. Wilcox fll.led in as a starterfor six g2,mes at the beginriing oflast season when Hanzlik sus­the last two years -including a backcourt genius 90-27. Thus, since the Irish upended St. Ambrose on February 7 to
named John Paxson -Wilcox has seen his own role tained a hand injury. 
even their record at 9·9, DiStanaslao has been reaching for the century
drop from sixth man to something more like ninth man. But the highlights have been as infrequent as Wilcox 
mark.

That's a drop in playing time ofabout ten minutes. court appearances in I980-8I, considering the poten­
The only problem is that four losses have come between Mary D. tial he once demonstrated to all the experts. 
"I spent the frrst couple years here getting used to the and number I 00.

program, getting used to Digger and seeing if I could come into a role where I would start for hini," recalls See WILCOX, page 7 



