.Tennis Special-page 8
' ' 

VOL. XVI, NO. 18 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1981 
Reagan silences Congress on Social Security cuts 
WASHINGTON (AP) Republican congressional leaders said yesterday that President Reagan gave them no encouragement when they proposed cutting Social Security and other open-ended benefit programs this year in order to hold down the federal deficit. 
One called the proposal, "just barely an open question." Another said it "should he put to rest" for this year, despite what were described as strong presentations by some senators who told Reagan those programs must he cut now in order to make the substantial budget reductions he wants for the fiscal year that hegin,s Oct 1. 
Reagan himsdf gave reporters a rare "no comment" when they asked him at the start of the morning meeting whether he would rule out a proposal to recalculate cost-of­living increases for Social Security recipients to reduce costs. 
Social Security is the largest of the many so-called entitlement programs that are poolitically and financially difficult to control be­cause they pay benefits not on the basis of annual congressional ap­propriations but on the basis of the number of people who meet their eligibility criteria. 
Entitlement programs also in­clude food stamps, welfare, un­employment, veterans' pensions, Medicaid and Medicare. 

Various White House spokesmen said last week as the administration sought ways to make new budget cuts that Reagan would not seek fur­ther reductions in entitlement programs this year, hut might when Congress takes up the fiscal 1983 
budget early next year. 
That line appeared to change late 
Monday when chief ofstaffJames A. 
Baker III returned from a meeting 
with GOP leaders on Capitol Hill 
and huddled with the president on 
the White House tennis court where 
Reagan had been watching an ex­
hibition match. 
Deputy White House press 
secretary Larrv Speakes said after­
ward that Rea-gan would look i~to 
the possibility of cutting entitle­
ments. Asked repeatedly whether 
the president would rule out cuts in 
Social Security payments, Speakes 
avoided a direct answer. 
But a senior White House official, who asked not to be identified. said: "the president has not been inclined to gotha t t way. He is willing to listen to the arguments. He hasn't been persuaded." 
It appeared that Reagan wasn't persuaded at the leadership meeting yesterday either: 
Senate Majority Leader Howard H. Baker Jr. said Reagan "certainly did not indicate any willingness to con­sider any entitlement· changes in 1982." 
"It's just barely an open question," he added. 

Sen. Paul Laxalt, R-Nev., Reagan's closest friend in the Senate, said there was "no se.tious discussion concerning any cuts in Social Security at all. That should be put to rest." 
However, Laxalt and Baker pointed out that it will be extraor­dinarily difficult to make the cuts Reagan wants if so-called "discretionary spending" is the only category under consideration. 
abortion, voted "yes." East said he believes "down in my 
heart of hearts" she would have opposed the majority Supreme Court opinion legalizing abortion in 1973 if she had been a member of 
For Year 2130 


N etv cotnputer predicts weather 
the court then. 
By MARKS. SMITH 
Associated Press Writer 
BRACKNELL, England (AP)-Britain's Meteorologi­cal Office has set the most powerful computer in the world to come up with a long-range weather forecast ­tor the year 2130. 
The computer, a s10 million Cyber 205 built·by the Control Data Corp. -------------­
~~~~n;~:~~li~;s~~~ WEDNESDAY.~0B. ~~~~;e Pr~;:~~WIFOCUS 
which aims to use iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
mathematical models of the Earth's atmosphere to simulate possible changes in weather. 
"One of the main purposes is to assess what kind of changes might happen if the carbon dioxide content of the atmosphere is doubled because of industrial pollu­tion," Dr. Alan Gadd, assistant director of the program, said. 
Scientists theorize that a buildup ofcarbon dioxide, a byproduct of virtually any industrial process that consumes energy, might warm the world's climate. This is popularly known as the greenhouse effect. 
"But to call it the greenhouse effect makes it sound like just a general warming up," Gadd said. "What we are very in.terested in is geographical and regional varia­tions from place to place." 
So Gadd and his colleagues plan to run their mathe­matical model through 50 years of seasonal changes, gradually increasing the carbon dioxide factor, in hopes of discovering what the Earth's climate will be l!ke in various regions in 2130. 
Such a task is far beyond the current Meteorological 


Senate Majority Leader Howard Baker, R-Tenn. to discuss their recommended spending cuts on (left), and House Minority Leader Bob Michel, R-.Social Security, food stamps and Medicaid. (AP 11/.·(right), meet Tuesday with President Reagan Photo) 
17-0 vote 
Senate clears 0 'Connor nomination 
WASHINGTON (AP) The Oct. 5. 
Senate Judiciary Committee ap­Sen. Jeremiah Denton, R-Ala., was proved Sandra Day O'Connor's his­the only committee member who toric nomination to the Supreme did not vote to recommend her con­Court yesterday. The 17-0 vote firmation. He said he had not learned clears the way for her Senate con­enough about her constitutional firmation, probably Friday. views on abortion to support her The 51 year-old Arizona appeals nomination. Rather than oppose her, 
court judge, who is the first woman Denton voted "present." appointed to the high court, is to be Sen. John East, R-N.C., who had sworn in late this month in time w said in advance he would support take her seat with the other justices her nomination only if Ms. when the court starts its new term O'Connor revealed her ·views on 
In her testimony, Ms. O'Connor expressed personal "repugnance" to Office computer, which at best was able to yield a three­abortion and said she wouldn't have 
year prediction. 
one, but declined to provide anyThe new machine, seven times as fast as any other in legal opinion of the 1973 decision. 
existe~ce, can simulate a year's weather in about 12 
East said hearing Ms. O'Connor hours. It will also allow for refinements in the mathe­express personal support for the matical model to include factors not currently figured death penalty and opposition to into the formulas. 
busing for racial desegregation con-The Cyber 205, the first that Control D;~ta has in­
vinced him that "we have found a 
conservative woman of con­
servative instincts." 
He said he also voted for Ms. O'Connor "because she is a nominee of Ronald Reagan. ... I suspect he knows things that I don't know." 
Sen. Strom Thurmond, R-S.C. and the committee chairman, said Ms. O'Connor had demonstrated during her testimony all of the "good qualities" needed to become a good Supreme Court justice. ' 
Thurmon said a confirmation vote in the full Senate probably would be scheduled for Friday. 
The Judiciary Committee represents a broad spectrum of political opinion and Ms. O'Connor drew general praise from liberals and conservatives alike. 
But Denton said abortion is such an important issue there was no­thing wrong with making it the lone criteria in deciding whether to con­firm Ms. O'Connor. 
During last week's hearings, Ms. 
See SENATE, page 4 

stalled, can carry out up to four billion arithmetic operations per second. That gives it more computing ability -"number-crunching powe(' in the jargon of 
Crime, air traffic controllers computer scientists -than all the other weather com­puters in the world put together. 
What makes the Cyber 205 so fast are new develop­
disturb Attorney F. Lee Bailey
ments in the same technology that puts a calculator in 
your pocket and trans_mits this column of. type from England to your local newspaper. The computer trade 
By CHUCK ZAMMIT 
calls it "large-scale, integrated-circuit manufacturing." 
News Staff 

To the consumer, it's better known·as "chip" technol­ogy. 
F. Lee Bailey, a nationally known 
The process of creating chips from film d,esigns, trial lawyer, spoke in South Bend's 
known as photolithography, has become so complex Morris Civic Auditorium, lecturing 
that it can only be carried on with the aid ofcomputers. 
primar,ily on how crime can be dealt 
"You build the chip using an image of the circuit 
with in the judicial system and the 
placed on a piece offilm," said Charles Purcell, a control air traffic controllers strike. 
data consultant who helped build the new supercom­He said many offenders, especially puter. "That picture is then imprinted on the semicon­those involved in robberies or 
ductor. 
violent crimes, are beyond repair"As scientists compress the size of the technology, and the only solution is to incar­
they're getting surprising gains in speed, more than any cerate them indefinitely. These of­o.f us had reason to expect," he said. 
fenders should only be released "When we get half as big, we go four times faster.... 
when there is solid evidence to jus­We see another two-fold improvement in computers in 
tify any improvement. Many ofthese five years." 
offenders believe that the risk in­volved in committing a crime is
See WEATHER, page 4 
<elatively low or, if they do get caught, a lawyer can get them ac­quitted or at least postpone the trial indefinitely in an already overbur­dened court system. 
Rehabilitation of prisoners who can be helped is not easy, Bailey said, because it is difficult for employers and employees to work with a prisoner. An integration ofprisoners into the work force is not probable. "We spend too much time in our prisons filling people with a terrible resolve," he said. 
There are many that still can be reached in prison and more humane conditions should be examined. For 
See BAILEY, page 3 

Wednesday, September 16, 1981 -page 2


NewsBrie_b 
====~========~================================~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 

Interestratesedged lower yesterday for the fifth straight day, highlighted by a move throughout the banking industry to match a modest decline in the prime lending rate. Rallies in the bond and money markets prompted some economists to suggest rates may continue to drop slowly, with little chance for substantial relief from record-high borrowing costs. Economists believe the trend was fueled by signs that the Federal Reserve Board is relaxing credit reins: The Board has sought to keep credit tight to control inflation. Market watchers said the injected reserves into the banking system, a move that generally produces lower interest rates. For example, .the rate on federal funds -which strongly influences their short­term rates -traded in the range of 1 5 percent to 16 percent yester­day. The rate averaged nearly 20 percent in early July. Federal funds are the overnight loans of uncommitted reserves among banks, an important source offunds for financial institutions. -AP 
President Anwar Sadat's government expelled the Soviet ambassador to Cairo and six Soviet Embassy employees yesterday, accusing them of plotting against Egypt by inciting Moslem-Christian strife. A Hungarian diplomat also was ordered out. The move, taken by the Egyptian Cabinet and announced by the government news agency, appeared to be the most serious breach of Egyptian-Soviet relations since 1972 when Sadat expelled 1 7,000 Soviet advisers. It followed Sadat's speech Monday night accusing the Soviet Union of being involved "head-on" in the strife between Moslem fundamentalists and the Coptic Christian minority in Egypt and that the 1,5 36 Egyptians arrested in connection with that strife had been Soviet-inspired. -AP 
At least 50 anti-nuclear protesters were arrested for trespassing yesterday as hundreds converged by land and by sea on the $2.3 billion Diablo Canyon atomic power plant. An estimated 60 demonstrators -out ofabout 3,000 who have gathered in hopes of keeping the facility from starting up -scaled a six foot high bar­bedwire perimeter fence near the plant's main gate, where a mass blockade began at midafternoon. Around the same time, a group of 25 people that included actor Robert Blake landed on a beach near the plant after defying choppy seas and biting winds in a ragtag flotil­la. and one of them was arrested, California Highway Patrol officer Ron Henn said. "They said we couldn't do it, but we did," the skipper of one of the half-dozen sail and motor boats yelled as the landing party, clad in jeans, cutoff-; and wetsuits, went ashore on the rugged coastline in rubber rafts. They put ashore just outside a 16 square­
mile off-limit zone declared by the Coast Guard. -AP 
An Indiana University math education professor says American school children can add, subtract, multiply and divide "but they don't know how and when to apply these skills." Frank Lester, an associate professor in the Ill school of Education, says students need to develop greater math literacy. He said the demands of the job market are such that they must know how to interpret graphs. charts and tables. According to Lester, math should be incor­porated in all areas of study and students must learn to use it in any context. "I think there has been too much emphasis in getting quick, correct answers, rather than thinking a problem through and getting a good understanding ofit," Lester said. "I think.schools often tend to make kids more impulsive, instead of giving them time to think. . .! don't blame the teachers. There is so much pressure to cover the book and for the children to do well on tests." -AP 
Two insurance agents testifying in the bribery­extortion trial yesterday of Sheriff Ralph DeMeyer of St. Joseph Count said they overheard a key prosecution witness say she wanted to "nail" DeMeyer. DeMeyer. 52, is charged with conspiring to ex­tort 55.200 in election campaign contributions from go-go bar 

Films raise social concerns 
Once each semester, The Social Concerns Or­ganization ofStudent Government and the Center for Experiential Learning invite us to broaden our social perspectives by attending the Social Con­cerns Film Series. 
This semester, the series addresses a variety of issues, including poverty, discrimination, health care and war sentiment, which aren't as far removed from the Notre Dame community as one might believe. 
The poverty issue opens the series .with the documentary film "Something Beautiful for God," which follows the work of Mother Theresa ofCal­cutta. 
Mother Theresa's work with the poor will also be featured in a Thanksgiving television special about the rosary. This special includes an inter­view between Bob Newhart and Gerry Faust, and segrr.ents featuring the Glee Club and Fr. Hes­burgh, all of which were filmed on the Notre Dame campus. 
The problems caused by poverty in the South Bend community are challenged by community se.rvice organizations at Notre Dame, including St. Vincent DePaul, CILA Upward Bound and the Neighborhood Study Help Program. 
In addition, CILA sponsors 8-10 week summer projects involving service work at a variety of locations. Last summer's projects were located at Los Ninyos in Tijuana, Mexico, the Christian Ap­palacia Project and The Glenmary Home Mis­sioners program in Appalacia. 
The next movie, "To Kill A Mockingbird," centers around racial discrimination in a small Southern town. 
Sexual Discrimination was the charge in a class action suit Delores Frese filed against Notre Dame, which was dismissed pending final judicial approval August 3. Two members of the class, Anne Lacombe and Madonna Kolbenschlag, ob­jected to the terms of the settlement agreement, which included the elimination of the discrimina­tion charge, and filed an appeal, which goes to the Seventh Circuit Court in Chicago where briefs will be filed and a decison made. Final judicial ap­proval in this case could take vears. 
The series continues with "Hospital". a black comedy on the order of"Network," about health care administration politics. 
The Reagan administration recently decided to cut much of the newly implemented funding and staffing involving care for the handicapped . 
Stephen Rogers, a blind professor in the depart­ment of General Program, noted that he feared that the Reagan plan will set things back for the handicapped. He added that he believes funding for the handicapped has been needed for a long time. 
Rogers said that he foresees.no negative impact 


Kelli F6nt 
News Editor 
Inside Wednesday 
on the handicapped of Notre Dame. "Notre Dame has always followed the spirit of the accessibility law on its own -even without special funds," Rogers said. The University has become especially aware of the needs of the handicapped in recent years. 
Notre Dame is also creating an Office for Hand­icapped Students. and making a concentrated ef­fort to accept more handicapped students. 

War sentiment is the issue covered in the final two films, the documentary "War Without Win­ners" and "Breaker Morant". 
Observer reporter Jim McClure recently inter­viewed former POW Captain Gerald Coffee, U.S. Navy, about his views on Christianity and its relationship to the military. 
Coffee said that he believed that war is sometimes necessary to protect those Christian values that Notre Dame stands for. He adds that from an ethical standpoint, military people are probably the most anti-war one could find, be­cause they know better than anyone else what war is really like. 
Projects such as the Social Concerns Film series renew awareness of issues which seem distinct from the Notre Dame community, yet hit supris­ingly close to home. 
operator Ramona Desich in exchange for protecting her prostitution house. Agents Gary Brinkley and Kenneth Headley said they were inside Mrs. Desich's bar, "Ramona's Car Wash," when they heard her promise to "nail (him) ... one way or the other." Mrs. Desich was granted immunity from the government in exchange for testifying in the case. -AP 
Terrorists hiddenon a wooded hill fired Soviet-built grenades at a bullet-proof car carrying the U.S. Army's European commander early yesterday, smashing the rear window and causing slight cuts to the general and his wife, oftkials said. The attack on Gen. Frederick). KroesenJr.. 58, was the fourth on U.S. personnel in West Germany since the end of August, when the leftist Red Army Faction proclaimed "war against imperialist war." Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger told a television interviewer in Washington the attack "had to be viewed very seriously indeed. It seems to be part of a worldwide attempt to discourage any kind ofdefense offreedom." 
-AP 
Swedish actress Ingrid Bergman says she'll "speak. behave and even feel" like Golda Meir to prepare for a television documentary being filmed in Israel on the life of the late Israeli prime minister. Ms. Bergman arrived in Tel Aviv last week to star in the Paramount Studios four-hour television film. leaving retirment to take the role. "I'll do everything I can to faithfully reproduce her," Bergman told a local newspaper. "I want to be true to this interesting and brilliant character.' Ms. Bergman originally turned down Paramount's offer to play Ms. Meir, but agreed after she was con­vinced her Swedish Protestant backround would not hamper her portrayal ofmodern Jewry's most famous woman. -AP 
Partly sunny and cool today. High in the 60s. Partly. cloudy and very cool tonight. Mostly sunny and continued cool tomorrow. High in the 60s. -AP 
r--The_Obs_erYer_ Design Editor ............. Gregory A. Swiercz Design Assistants....................... Tim Nedy Polly Hudak Typesetter .......................................... Ron Joe Neli.'S Editor................... Mary Agnes Cart:y Copy Editor .......... Vaicrit' Evans Features Layout .............. Anthony \'\'alton Sports COPI' Editor ............... .:vtike Ortman Tvpist .............. ....................Jeanine Hynes S1•stems Control ................... Bruce Oakln NO Day Editor........................ Paul McGi':'n SMC Da)' Editor............... :vtary Kay Ho~an Ad Design ............................ Fran & the kids Photographer ....... Tom O'Brien Guest Appearances ................. Kelly's Lt."~S :vt ax. lLI. ( hy phone) The Ghost of :vtoose Control  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Col­lege. Subscriptions may be purchased for $25 per )(ear ($15 per semester) by writing The Observer. P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. Second class postage paid at Notre Dame, Indiana 46556.  


SffiC STUDENT GOVT ALLOCATION APPUCATIONS 
Available Now 
Student Activities Office 168 Lemans 
All SmC/~D clubs & organizations eligible due mon. sept 21 
/" 

MASTERCARD VISA SEARS College Credit Card Program· 
lenient terms -over 90% accepted established your credit 
WHEN: Wednesdays, Thursdays LaFortune 11-1 pm dining halls 4:30-6:30 pm 
sponsored by the finance club(3657) 
TheObserver Wednesday, September 16, 1981 -page 3 


Newhart notes Career, future 

By DAVID RICKABAUGH 
SeniorStaffReporter 
During the recent IDming of a 
television special on the Notre 
Dame campus Bob Newhart talked 
about his career and the television 
industry. 
The comedian's future plans in· 
dude touring the country with his 
stand-up routine and starring in a 
CBS television movie. 
Newhart, noted for the role ofDr. 
Robert Hartley on "The Bob 
Newhart Show," stated he left the 
top rated program because of the 
rigors of weekly series and the lack 
ofquality writers available. 
"We did the show for six years, 10 
or 12 times a week. It was just like 
doing a play. Also, it was very hard to 
get good writers." 
Since leaving the CBS comedy, 
Newhart portrayed the President of 
the United States in the theatrical 
film "The First Family" and 
headlined two CBS variety specials. 
"I was upset with reaction to 
"(First) Family." We had a great cast 
with Madeline Kahn, Gilda Radner 
and Fred Willard to name just afew. I 
can wait a while before doing that 
again." The "button-down mind" 
on the television media commented, 
"For awhile television ran programs 
in prime time, like 'Wonder Woman' 
and 'The Incredible Hulk,' that 
belonged on ·the Saturday morning 
line-up. 
"I think the industry is getting bet· 
ter. Grant Tinker will get the ball rol· 

EntertainmentI 
Nazz kicks offnew season 
By MARC RAMIREZ 
NewsSiaff 
"We arc here for the whole Notre 

Dame-Saint Mary's student body. \Xie 
want people to just stop by and en­
joy th~..·msclves and the show," cm­
pha::.ized ND juni<>r .John Warnock. 
dirn:tor ofthe Nazz, a student t·nter­
tainment center located in the base­
ment of LaFortune Student Center. 
The Nazz was conceived in the mid-70's as an activity to be solely produced and sponsored hy and tor students, featuring all-student talent for tht: benetit of the campus com­munity. 
An organizational meeting was conducted last Monday for those in­tercsted in working with the Nazz. People are needed for various duties such as setting up equipment, operating the lighting and sound equipment and attending to the needs· ofperf(mners. 
The first show at the Nazz drew a crowd ofabout 200 people, yet War­nock stressed that there is a need ti.>r new talent. "If there's one thing that the Nazz is lacking, it's performers," he said. "We encourage anyone to give it a try. There is no pressure. You don't have to be real talcntt·d." 
The Nazz features all types of musical acts. from country-western to jazz t.o punk to reggae. There arc: also magic and comedy acb. Special plans fur this year include the annual 

HPC discusses new keg, election policies for dorms 
rooms. The subcommittee members

By CAROL CAMP 
requested that each ofthe hall presi­

Nf'wsStaff 
dents discuss the matter with their respective rectors to determine theDeveloping a uniform st:_mdard amount of beer which the dormfor the use of kegs by dorms and would need, and to aasure the rec­

determining a deadline for conduct­tors that they would have the
ing hall elections were two of the authority to handle the situation as
topics discussed at last night's HPC they deem necessary. The presi­
meeting. dents were challenged to work to­
The Standard Review Committee, gether with their rectors on this

which determines the criteria for all issue, and to approach the situation
dorm elections, proposed that the with "a mature attitude."
hall presidents consider having their In developing this proposal, the
elections at a time that would close­HPC hopes to provide a basis for
ly coincide with spring break. After allowing halls to do what they want
several minutes of discussion, the as far as the use ofkegs goes.
HPC approved a proposal that will Nazz music competition, an inter­hall musical contest and also a scr:ies of variety and magic shows per­formed by ND senior Mark Davis. In the past the Nazz has showcased someacts who have gone on in the entertainment business, among them Kevin Quigley, who has opened for comedian Martin Mull and Riek Walters, who has done some prokssional recording. 
Warnock is determined to strive for the continuous production of quality shows this year and wants to offer a variety of opportunities for the student body. A series of "open stages" will be sponsored on several Thursdays throughout the year in which students wiiJ have the chance to perform in front of an audience for any length of time. Warnock is also considering the construction of a recording studio for the use of the students. 
Shows are Thursdays, Fridays, and Saturdays. Anyone interested in appearing can call John Warnock at .BB or .\1ary Lloyd at 277-76::)1-!. 
.__-The Great American Forum JACK ANDERSON Friday, Sept. 25 8:00p.m. Buy your tickets today Student Discount! 

require all dorms to elect theirpresi­dents by April 1. 
rammg 
esstons
According to HJ>C chairman Mike Martin, the purpose of this measure 
for the 
is not "to make HPC superior to the 

Undergraduate Schools 
individual dorms,'' but to assist the incoming hall presidents by giving 

Committee members will be held 
them a transition period. An HPC subcommittee, consisting 
Tuesday -Thursday, September 15-17 
of Uoyd Burke (Flanper), Jack McKenna (Pangborn) and Paul Cal· 
in the Library Auditorium 7-8 p.m. laban (Keenan'), explained the pro­cedure that the HPC will follow in devising a keg policy for dorm party 
Veteran mem,bers welcome! 
ling at NBC, while CBS bas gone back to the type of programs that made it number one." 
Newhart listed MASH, 60 Minutes, 20/20, and Archie Bunker's Place as some ofhis favorite programs. 
"I had to mention Archie Bunker's Place because my uncle plays, Mr Van Rensolear, the blind guy at the end ofthe bar." 
When asked whether he feared he would be stereotyped into the role of Bob Hartley he commented, "there's always some drawbacks when you play one character over a long period of time, and getting stereotyped is one of them. However. I think the character of Bob Hartley closely resembles the image of Bob Newhart." 
The problem ofactors who leave a successful series and fail at a return (people such as Dick Van Dyke, Mary Tyler Moore and Mclean Stevenson) results, according to Newhart, from the nature of the television industry and not from their earlier popularity. 
'Television is a competitive busi­ness, getting two hits is very tough." 
The comedian said he does not plan to return to a weekly program within the near future and looks for­ward to touring and working on a f•·w special projects. 
.Bailey 
continuedfrom page I 
example, keeping white colla! prisoners from dangerous criminals would be one solution. 
He also proposed restricting the use ofcash in all levels ofsociety, to the point of making the possession oflargc amounts ofcash illegal. Drug dealers, for example always deal in 
large amounts of cash. Because of the illegal nature of the transaction using checks or credit cards would be impossible. The number of mug­gings would also decrease if people did not carry much cash. He said that in Florida a drug dealer can get up to 45 years in prison for bringing in a shipment ofcocaine, but only seven years for killing someone. Often, any 
witnesses involved in drug cases are killed because ofthe lesser sentence for murder than for drug dealing. 
Bailey spoke about the air traftk controllers strike in some detail. He helped form the controllers union himselfand is also a pilot. He blames the Reagan administration for cover­ing up the truth about the situation, and holds that the air traffic control­lers demands arc legitimate. 





REID MOREY? 
'b $ $ I 
Work: Delivering papers 
Days: 2 or 3 Days 

Hours: 10:30 -1 
Money: Approx $3.50 

Inquire: !om MacLennan Circulation Mgr. 283-8661 

Hours: 
Mon.-Thurs. 
7 am -10 pm Fri. & Sat. 7 am-11 pm 


Oosecl 2-4 pm daily 

$1.00 off any size stuffed pizza with student ID except on Fridays 
1123 Spring Street · 256-2620 
·--------·-----------------------------~ 

Wednesday, September 16, 1981 page 4
The Observer 


Pope addresses issues in social staten1ent 
ATTENTION ALL STUDENTs~~~ 
Spend Thanksgiving in Florida 
Trip to NO-Miami Game is now open on a first come-first serve basis. -Round trip airfare -Four nights/five days a Deluxe Sheraton Bal Harbour on the ocean -Beautiful beaches, pools, clubs, restaurants 
--All ground transfers between school and airport, airport and hotel, hotel 
Only $399 per person, quad occupancy $100 deposit due now Trip departs Wednesday morning, Nov. 25 and returns Sunday evening, 
Nov. 29 For furthur info. contact ND Student Activities Office, 1st 
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F~mL~ortu~m~l7308. 
The pace of technological ad­
continuedfrom page 1 
vance is so e'xplosive. Lawn:nce said, that by the time a computer is built, Is there any limit to how fast chips it's already several years out ofdate. 

can be made? "They tell me the speed of light is The Cyber 205 at thethe final limit, but 12 years ago the Meteorological Office's headquar­moon was somewhat far away," said ters in Bracknell, some SO milesBrian Lawrence, British sales west of London, will be surpassed bymanager for Control Data's data another. more powerful version toprocessing division. "It's fantastic be installed by the year's end at thewhat they seem to do." 
:·······················~,·····~
Mandatory Meeting for all • 
•
• Sain

• · t Mary's Reporters
•

• (old and new) 
•
•
•

• 6 p.m. Wednesday in SMC Observer
• 

: Office, Regina South Basement 
•
• •
•
• 
: 

Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory in Schenectady, N.Y. 
In addition to using the new com puter to forecast the weather in the next century, the Meteorological Office intends to put it ro work on the more mundane matter of tomor­row's weather. 
Gadd and his colleagues believe the Cyber 205 will enable them to make more and better readings ofat­mospheric conditions. They also say it will be able to handle readings not taken at the standard ·worldwide reporting times -noon and mid­night GMT. 
The main example of this is data from satellites, which check the weather 24 hours a day as they circle the Earth. 
Beyond the weather services, en­gineers see wide-ranging applica­tions for the supercomputer, including control of nuclear reac­tors, three-dimensional design of building~ and bridges, operation of oilfields, genetic engineering and biochemistr\. 
• • .Senate 
continuedfrom page 1 
O'Connor said she did not want tu prejudice any rulings she might make on the court. and so gave the t·ommittee little insight as w how she might vote on specific issues likely to reach the'nine justices. 
As a result. Denton said. "I know verv little about Judge O'Connor's opinions on the great legal issues of the day." 
Sen. Patrick Leahy. D-\'t.. criticized Denton's reasoning and saiu a nominee's views on one issue -abortion in this instance ­"should never be underswod to be the price of confirmation." 


VATICAN CITY (AP) -Pope John Paul II, in his most com­prehensive statement on social issues, yesterday strongly backed labor unions, urged worker par­ticipation in management and proposed a "just" family wage and subsidies that would free mothers from the necessity of taking jobs. 
The papal encyclical condemns both "rigid" capitalism and the "collectivist system" that would eliminate all private ownership of the means of production. It suggests a socialist middle ground as a model for economic development. 
Central to the 99-page, 22,000 word encyclical is opposition to the "dehumanizing excesses" of modern economic systems. 
"We must emphasize and give prominence to the primacy of man in the production process, the primacy of man over things," the pope said. "We must first ofall recall a principle that has always been taught by the church -the prin­ciple of the priority of labor over 

Richard T. Sullivan dies of illness::~~~-~~t~~~l~:~ ~:~r;~e~~li~~ 
Richard T. Sullivan, nationally recognized novelist, short story writer and member ofthe University of Notre Dame faculty since 1936, died September 13 in South Bend's St. Joseph Medical Center after a long illness. He was 72. 
Sullivan, who was to write one of the most popular books about Notre Dame, came to the University as a student in 1926 and received a bac­helor's degree in 1930. He did freelance work for radio and magazines before joining the faculty in 1936 as an instructor in the writing of short stories, novels, plays, and poetry. He also attended the Chicago Art Institute and Good­man School of Drama. He received Notre Dame's faculty award in 1945. 
Mr. Sullivan's "Notre Dame: The Story of a Great University" was published in 195 I and was described as a "love letter" by reviewers. His personal recounting 

525 NORTH EDDY STREET • SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46617 • 219-232·1177 MEMBER· NATIONAL RESTAURANT ASSOCI~AION 
1lri6 Fli. & Sat. Sper.i4~ Reli6L 'Pig SollllwiU & 'Dilacel6 N4TI~l 

~U NT ....................ASSOC TION 
Roman Catholic Church and the world, was written in Polish, theof memories and legends which had pontiff's native tongue, and carried

created the mythos of Notre Dame 
the Latin title. "Laborem Exercens."

was rt·printed in 1961 with an The Vatican gave it the descriptiveepilogue and entitled "Notre Dame title "On Human Work."
:"Reminiscences ofan Era." 
The Rev. John Schasching, dean of 

Funeral arrangements are with 
social science at the Pontifical 

Hickey Funeral Home in South Gregorian University, said the en­Bend, with memorials to Phoenix cyclical reflectsJohn Paul's vision of House, 3610 Miami Road, South "a just society based on an ideal Bend. 
economic system." 

• • .Weather 
Workers should recdve a "just" wage, which the pope defines as ade­quate to support the family and al­low mothers to concentrate on the care and education ofchildren. Mot­hers also should benefit from family allowances to enable them to devote themselves "exclusively to their familes." 
"Having to abandon these tasks in order to take up paid work outside the home is wrong from the point of view of the good of society and of the family when it contradicts and hinders these primary goals of the mission of the mother," he said. 
Radical and urgent changes arc necessary to rescue farmers from the big landowners and "to restore to agriculture their just value as the basis for a healthy economy." 
Multi-national corporations arc engaged in the condemnable practice of fixing high prices for their products while trying to keep down prices for raw materials and semi-manufactured goods, widening the gap between the rich and poor nations. 
John Paul strongly endorsed the workers' right to organize unions, to participate to some extent in the management oftheir companies and to strike, except for political purposes or in essential public services. 
He said unions are "a mouthpiece for the struggle for social justice" but added they must take into ac­count their nation's economic problems when pressing their demands. 
~ ~~~~~~..U.--U4--~--~--~--MH--HH..~-4-----------------------­


Features 

Wednesday, September 16, 1981 -page 5 
11All Things Come t9 Him Who Waits'' 
troubles. They've made us wait so of­"They also serve who only stand waiting until they're good and ready. anything while you wait for it. people who wait well arc too lazy to 
ten over the years that nothing bad and wait." Banks arc not the only big offenders I always tell them that I have a do something. just opinion, mind "Patience is a virtue."
that happens to banks makes us do in the waiting game; so are doctors. charge for waiting, and I think doc­you. I don't want a lot of patientI don't happen to believe any of
anything but laugh. Some doctors assume their time is so tors ought to start knocking Ill 0 off waiters mad at me. those old saws. Impatience is a
Waiting is one ofthe least amusing much more important than anyone their bill for every half hour we The funny thing about that word virtue, that's what I think. Shifting
things there is to do. Short waits are else's that all the rest of us ought to spend in their waiting rooms. The "waiter" is that those who make a from one foot to the other and tap·
worse than long waits. If you know wait for them...patiently, of course. doctor who tells all his patients to living as waiters are about the most ping your fingers on something and
you're going to have to wait for four What other profession or line of come.at 9 o'clock ought to be sent impatient people on earth. You can't getting damn mad while you stand
hours or six months, you can plan business routinely includes in its back to the hospital to spend anoth­get a waiter to wait 10 seconds. You there is the only way to behave
your time and use it and still have office setup something called "tthe er year as a resident. go in a restaurant, he hands you a the pleasure of anticipating what while you're waiting. There's no waiting room." All of us admire in other people menu 18 inches long with 50 dishes you're waiting for. If it's a short wait sense being patient with people who In New York City, many of the the characteristics we think we have to choose from, and in three seconds 
make you wait because they'll only
of undetermined length, it's a ter­parking garages have signs over their ourselves. I don't have any patience he starts tapping his pencil on his or­rible waste of time. make you wait longer the next time. cashier window saying, "No charge 'so it's natural, I guess, that I don't der pad to let you know how im­I've read all the proverbs about The thing to do is blow up...hiit the for waiting time." What a prepos­admire it in other people. patient he is. waiting and patience: roofwhen they finally show up. tcrouss sign! What it means is that Sometimes I reluctantly concede it I'd make a great waiter. I can't wait "All things come to him who they can take their time getting your works for them, but I still don't think at all. 
Some people seem to think they waits." were born to keep everyone else car but you don't have to pay them of it as a virtue. I secretly think that Cbt. Trib. -NYNews Syndtcate 

Stretch -two -three -four • • 
Jenny Pitts 
Features Writer 
"Whose idea was this anyway?" I had a funny feeling it was mine so I kept quiet. 
"Up ... together ... down ... to­gether . . . up . . . together . . . get both ... your ... thighs .... off ... the ... ground." 
No way. My body doesn't move like that. 
"Lower your legs gently. shouldn't be hearing ... all ... that thudding." 

Thud ... thud. Nice try, but we all kept thudding. "Hey. What happened to Lisa? I think she just passed out" "No. Don't worry. She's just trying to touch her toes." going to be slaughtered passed 
cheerleader types ... I hate cheer­you get tired, be sure to stop and 
Tbe 0 bserver ad seemed lJarmless through my mind. 

leaders." rest." 
enough. "Aerobic exercise class. " Cel~'l:-brate good times, 
Rosemary hates cheerleaders. I She seemed nice, but I should Mon., Tues., Thurs., 4: IS at the Come on! There's a party going on had to agree, she had a point. How have been tipped off when she Rock." The details were enticin~ right here, a celebration ... " could this girl look so good and skipped over to turn on the tape re­one half hour of continuous, Our first, and only, smart move in smile so much while she did this to corder. My body and the verb skipstrenuous exercise, to accompany-this whole adventure was arriving us. parted ways about ten years ago.
ing music, guaranteed to get that early. The Rock was invaded by Although many girls were kept
blood pumping through those veins. scores of unwitting girls who, like "Round, round, git around, I git
out the room was packed. We were 
Peer pressure made it irresistable. ourselves, were eager to exercise around. Yeah. Git around, round,
told to warm up so-that no muscles Aerobics became our unofficial sec-their hearts out. We were ushered were pulled. Since I don't do this round, I giit around. 
tion project. It would be fun, into what is probably the smallest We managed to get through the
sort of thing regularly, I looked 
"Kick forward ... kick back.. . room in the Rock. Soon afterwards. first two songs f'}.irly successfully But
around to see what everyone else 
kick forward ... kick back ... Don't the door was closed, leaving many the signs were tht'fe. Despite the
was doing. For the most part they
kick ... one another." disappointed girls outside. We were fixed and determined expressions,
were also looking around for some 
Anticipating a crowd, we left for very proud of ourselves for having faces were turning red, sides were
insights into the fine art ofstretching
the Rock a little early. We looked made it in. As we would soon see, we being held, and bodies were literally
our. An encouraging sign, I thought.
like a bunch of clones as we walked need not have been so proud and dripping with persperation. The
Besides, it was a futile effort at best. 
down the quad. Shorts, T-shirts, they should not have been so disap-monogrammmed ribbons proved
My muscles needed to thaw out sneakers, hair pulled back. Those pointed. · useless -wet hair was plastered tobefore they could even think about who needed the class less than most "Hop to the front ... to the left, 
warming up. 

wore leotards, those who needed it right, back ... hop t_o the front ... to the sides of many a red face -and more than most wore sweats. Those the left, right, back . . . double After that first feeble attempt class the matching outfits were as who were trying to impress God time ... Come on girls ... pick .. . began. drenched as the "Beat 'Barna" T­knows who wore matching it ... up. Swing your arms wide .. . "Hi, I'm Lori. This is aerobic ex­shirts. Sweat is a great equalizer. monogrammed "outfits" with to ... the ... sides." ercise class, not aerobic dance class. "Down on your knees, matching monogrammed shoes, "I can't do this. Who is she, We will exercise to the music for everybody." socks, and ribbons. For some unex-anyway? I bet she ... is ... ugh .. . hau· an hour. Remember to keep "Praying for a reprieve?" plained reason images of sheep one of those frus . . . trated .. . moving, especially your arms. But if "Stretch back . . . right ... 
• 
right . . . right . . . Touch your heel . . . with your . . . elbow. Right ... right ... Other side. 
"We should pray for some air in here. The atmospheric conditions in this room arc definitely anaerobic." 
Usa' a eyes darted in the direction of the girl who said this and then back to me: 
"Engineer. That reminds me ... ugh ... Whcre's ... Margaret? She's not getting ... out of ... this." 
"She ... told me ... not ... to .. 
wait ... She has a lab." "Oh my God, I slipped a disc!" I couldn't help but laugh. ''I'm serious." "Bend back as far as you can ... 
Can you feel it?" "Didn't you just hear m'\ say that I 
broke my back?" We all laughed. "That's o.k. Laugh. It's only my 
back. Which reminds me, by the way, don't most bodies bend for­ward at the waist, not backward?" 
"Don't look now, but she's touch­ing her head with her feet." 
"Make me ill." "Come on baby, Surfin' Safari" "Give me a break, I hate that song. 
We nc<:d some Stevie Wonder." I looked around at my friends who were all motioning thumbs down. I guess that meant no Stevie Wonder. 
"O.k., girls, last four minutes." "She's stilt smiling. And she hasn't even begun to perspire." "Right. I've got a lake in the middle ofthis mat." We looked at Lisa with wrinkled 
noses. She was right. "Gross, Lis ... that's pretty sick." "Ohmy God, the music stopped. 
It's over." 
Sure enough, the ' music had stopped and everyone was clapping. As I was putting on my shoes I heard a few "I'm never coming backs" and "My body hates mes". !looked over at my friends. 
"Same time tomorrow?" "You bet, I feel great." 

-, 
------------~----~----------~ 
Wednesday, September 16, 1981 -page 6
Editorials 
Dining hall lines simply unacceptable 
Two years after Frank Pasquerilla donated $7 million to Notre Dame to 
build two new residence halls, the Pasquerilla dorms are finished and 
filled nearly to capacity. This begins a process which will eventually add 
500 new women to the undergraduate enrollmenf, and the effects are 
already being felt. · 
While we applaud the University's attempts to improve coeducation 
here, we must decry vehemently its lackadaisical efforts to deal with the 
overcrowding this has caused. 
The most obvious example of this overcrowding is the situation at the 
dining halls, especially North, where the Pasquerilla women now eat. 
The incredibly long lines that students are forced to wait in are an ab­
solute abomination. This was an easily foreseeable problem, and one 
dplineated in these pages last year. Yet the University has been utterly 
negligent in dealing with this difficulty. 
Perhaps this appears like petulant children making a trivial claim, but we think not. Students living on campus will pay an average of $1,865 for room and board this year, which works out to $200 per month. Where is this money going? Certainly not toward wholesale improvement of living conditions: undrinkable water, flooded bathrooms, overcrowded rooms, lack of study and social space, innumerable fire hazards, all are practically taken for granted by ND dorm residents. Is it-out of the ques­tion for students to expect to have a reasonable amount of time to eat lunch (for many, the entire noon to I p.m. period is consumed), orto eat dinner when they like? 
This is another example of an irritating inconvenience thrust upon students by the University, the sum total of which add up to a major detriment ofon-campus living. Is this the administration's subtle attempt to force more students to live off campus? We hope not. 
Considering the students' monthly rent, which is competitive at best -outlandish at worst -in comparison to off-campus costs, is it un­usually selfish to request some kind of improvement from the Univer­sity's vast endowment? In the midst of a severe recession, Notre Dame's most recent fund-raising campaign was phenomenally successful. The University now has the 21st largest endowment in the nation, and we're still climbing. A $20,000 grant to student government recently was encouraging, but more-much more-iis needed. 
A new dining facility is first on the list. Students are "blowing off' meals rather than waiting in the mind-boggling lines, and we won't even comment on the quality of the food that awaits those with extraordinary patience. With all the money available to the University, there is no reason whatsoever why students should be inconvenienced in this man­ner even one day longer. 


Reagan impoundment tries recall Nixon 
Of all President Nixon's grabs at illegal power, none was so consis­tently baffled as his repeated attempt to impound funds for programs passed by Congress. Whenever Nixon held up the money, he. was taken to court, where he lost-time after time. 
Nixon's other offenses withstood punishment, and even criticism. His secret bombing ofCambodia was un­constitutional -but Congressman Drinan could not even get it into the articles of impeachment. The viola­tion of demonstrators' rights went unpunished. Even the comparatively minor items included in the bill of impeachment when Nixon resigned had gone unpunished in the normal processes of law. But that was never 
·----------------------------­
true of his impoundments, which were knocked down at once. 

Corry Wills 
Impoundment tampers with our Constitution at a very deep level. It is part of our mystique of legitimacy Outrider that the House of Representatives 
should have the power of the purse. To relinquish that to the president is to upset the whole balance of govern­ment. To do it when the president is waxing imperial reflects a failure on the part of Congress to perform its duty. 
The absurdity of impoundment can be seen from the nature of presidential vetoes. If Congress passes a law the president does not want to execute, he can veto it-but that leaves Congress the opportunity to override his veto. If, however, a 

P.O. Box Q 
]erseyites take offetlse atfeature article 
Dear Editor: 
As a New Jersey native, I eagerly delved into Susan Kelleher's article. My enthusiasm dimmed, however, as New Jersey jokes were ack­nowledged, and disappointingly enough, even credited for their exist­ence. I'd venture to say that some of the creators of these "chemical chucklers" have had their only ex­posure to New Jersey through a 
Bruce Springsteen ballad, or a jaunt 
down the Jersey Turnpike. 
Lest it sound that ''The Garden State" is undeserved of its title, con­sider this: two-thirds of the state remains farmland and wooded areas. Southern and western New Jersey 
farms are still well-known for their vegetable and fruit yields. There ex­ist 1.2 million acres of hardwood areas in northern Jersey, while the southern portion of the state preserves I . 3 million acres of pine trees. I'd I ike to see the "garden" in the Garden State taken out of the q[!estioning quotes that too often sur­round it. 
Immigration and industry, two 

things that have made our counntry the 
richer for their existence, have solid roots in New Jersey. Both factories and farms have a large stake in N.J. history. I offer no shameful apology for my place of residence-I am on­ly sorry that some people feel it necessary to make one. And the next time someone offers you con­dolences for being a New Jerseyite, 
just send him "down to the river" for a dive. 
Janet Drobinske Pasquerilla East 
Dear Editor: 

As a true Jerseyite (born and raised there), I have to put the picture straight so "new" Jerseyites will have some ammunition for rebuttal to "New Jersey jokes" and "condolences" referred to in Susan Kelleher's article ("The 'Garden' State," Sept. 4). 
Yes, we do have a unique culture, 
if culture means ''the enlightenment 
and refinement of taste acquired by 
intellectual and aesthetic training." 
Glassboro State Teachers College 
and Princeton University are just two of the many excellent colleges in our state, and we also have a fine state symphony orchestra. And to aid travelers from New York, Pennsyl­vania, Delaware, Maryland, Con­necticut and even the Midwest, we built the Garden State Parkway and the New Jersey Turnpike. We also have some of the finest troopers in the country to help visitors to our beautiful state arrive safely at their 
destination. 

The term "the shore" has always 
intrigued me. It extends for hundreds 
of miles. The word "scummy" has 
several meanings-the ocean after a 
northeast storm does have a scum of 
sorts (seaweed, jellyfish) which soon 
disappears. If a "rabble of low 
people" was meant, one has only to 
look at the license plates of the cars. 
College students rent many of the 
homes along the shore and are mainly out of state. 
Our fair state has taken a lot of flak about the casinos and gambling. We won't go into the morality ofit-just as we won't go into the morality of some of the films shown at Notre Dame, or in Times Square or San 
Francisco. In some ways you can compare a casino to a stock market transaction-if you have money you can "gamble"" on either one. Also, it's a form of recreation for people who do not have the money to fly to Europe, the Bahamas, etc. They get a bus and come for a day -maybe spend a few dollars and go back the same day. 
And, Susan, it's not the people from South Jersey that have that "atrocious accent": it's the people from North Jersey! 
N.J. Amamus South Bend 
The Observer alu·avs welcomes short letters and longer contributions from its readers-students, facultv 'or parents. For best chance (d" publication, letters must he brief tvped, and include the author's · address and phone number. Submis­sions for the "Opinion" column should also he typed. douhle-spaced. and no longer than three pages. AII articles should he addressed to the Editorials Editor. P.O. Box Q on 
campus. As ahHn·s, \\'e resen·e the right to edit. 

president can refuse to implement a law simply by holding up funds for it, he is given a de facto veto with no possibility of an override. This is what the courts found unconstitution­al about impoundment. 
There is no better sign of this ad­ministration's early panic than its desire to use impoundment to cut back on looming deficits. The new scheme will try to get around the courts' Nixon decisions by asking Congress for authority to impound­letting the legislature, in effect, give "up part of its law-making power to the executive. 
The apparent advantage of this is 

that it frees Congress of respon­
sibility for the specific cuts Reagan 
may decide on. But responsibility for 
such decissions is what the Constitu­
'tion exacts from representatives of 
the people. They are supposed to be 
accountable; and schemes to exempt 
them from such accountability ­
even with their cooperation, espe­
cially with their cooperation -vi­
olate the spirit of our system. 
President Reagan wants 

impoundment power, not only to 
make actual cutbacks, but to signal 
his determination to balance the 
budget. Threats of cutbacks, it is 
hoped, will have a psychological ef­
fect on the market. In that way, the 
man who says government should 
not tamper with the market is asking 
for governmental power to tamper 
with the market. 
It is not only a desperate ex­

pedient, but a feckless one. Arbitrary 
trimming will not affect the basic 
problem of "Reaganomics," which 
rides madly off in all directions. But 
it is typical of the usurping instinct 
that it tempts men most when it is in­
sufficient. President Nixon added 
power after power to his office just as 
he felt power going off. The usuper's 
urge. arises not from power, but from 
impotence-as the Reagan despera­
tion demonstrates anew. 
Universal Press Svndicate 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor·in·Cbief....... ." .............john McGrath SMC Executive Editor ..................... Mary Agnes Carey Managing Editor .................. ..................Tom jackman SMC News Editor ................................ ' Cathy Domamco
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Photo Editor...................................................]ohn Macor
Executive News Editor .............................. Lynne Daley 
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessanh 
News Editor................... ...........Tim VerceUotti
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported 
News Editor ............................ .......................... KeUi Flint Business Manager ....................................Rich Coppola as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a Senior Copy Editor ........................Mary Fran CaUahan Controller........................................................]oe Multlur majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters ar.e the views Sports Editor .........................................Michael Onman Advertising Manager......................................Mark EUis of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the communit\', and Features Editor ....................................Anthony Walton Production Manager..............................Michael Monk Circulation Manager ........................Tom Maclennan
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
..._ 
I 

Wednesday, September 16, 1981 page 7 
HEY YOU OUT THERE IIIII YES YOU PAYS $3.50 for 50 mins, $5 for 75 mins. 
NOTiCES 

$8.95 a day and 8 cents a mile. Phone FOOTBALL GAMES. CALL ART AT STUDENT TICKETS TO MICH. ST. 
111111 I NEED MANY GA'S TO THE NAVY Call GOTH dept. 284·4141 days, Debra
I ! 259-8459 for reservations. 1593. GAME. CALL 1171. 
GAME. IF CAN HELP. OR JUST FEEL Stahl272-0218 evenings. LIKE TALKING TO A PRETTY GIRL
USED BOOK SHOP, HOURS WED.. Near NO, Furn Kitchenette Apt., Utils. NEED FOOTBALL TIX? I DO! I NEED Will give anything for 2 GA's 10 USC. This 
CALL6772. JEFF LINDHOLM, alias Jeff fromSAT.. SUN. 9·7. CASPERSON, 1303 272-6174. USC AND PENN STATE TIX AND AM INCLUDES DRUGS AND SEX. Call Jack BUCHANAN AD, NILES. WILLING TO BUY, SELL OR TRADE 8519. Hurry I have only limited stamina Florida... Your days are numbered.J will seek revenge.. I want the shirt off of yourANY OTHER TIX TO GET THEM. WILL NEED USC TICKETS, G.A's and STU­back.. BEWAREIll H20!11 DIGGER. 
Badly Need RJde 2 & From L.A. for Oct. DEAL IN CASH ALSO. CALL LARRY DENT. Call Greg at 4436
WANTED

Break, wtll share expenses. Call Sylvta 277·3306. Tickets Wanted ND vs SO CAL. Call Phil 
Think about Spring Semester in MEXICO Need 4 MICH ST tix. Please Call 1827 -Un~versidad lberoamericana ­
6926 9AM-5PM. PAY$$$$$ 
MICHIGAN TICKET FOR SALE. Great Need nde to and from Richmond, IN., Ox­GOING THROUGH PA? I NEED A AIDE seat, call Joan at 6553. 
I have 1 GA tix to U. of Mich. and want to MexJCO City or Program In Global fordorCincJ.,OH. fhisweekend(18-20th). HOME THE WEEKEND OF SEPT 19. 
"horsetrade" for 1 U.S. C. student ttx. Will BADLY NEED G.A.s FOR MICHIGAN Community·Cuernavaca. Come to IN­Call Katie 4631 (smc). WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL MICHIGAN STUDENT SEASON TICKET consider selling tix. Call Larry at 288·4005 STATE AND FLORIDA STATE. CALL FORMATION NIGHT, Thurs. the 17th, after 8 p.m. or leave note at Law School LEE AT 289-3822. 7:30 pm, Library Lounge Call Marcta
MARCI-8018. FOR SALE, call Joan at 6553. 
for Larry Sirhall. LeMay, 2788. Center for ExperientialIMPROVE YOUR GRADES! Research WILL TRADE STUDENT PURDUE TIX Learning.
catalog -306 pages -10.278 topics. NEED RIDE TO PURDUE. WILL SPLIT DESPERATELY NEED TWO OR FOUR FOR MICHIGAN TIX. CALL JULIE 6926 
HEY!!! I NEED GA TIX FOR ANY HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL DAN AT 288-0-C NITE at BRIDGET'S tontght Gear up 
Rush $1.00, Box 25097C, Los Angeles. GAS. CALL ME. 1485. NAVY GA'S FOR PARENTS. CALL 
90025. (21 3) 477-8226. JULIE 2169 6251 ANY TIME AFTER 6. NEED 2 GA TfX FOR USC GAME CALL for the Mtchtgan.IOad trip wtlh this week's DO YOU HAVE EXTRA TIME IN THE AF· 
ROBIN 2956. special, $.75 KAMIKAZECILA ORIENTATION WEEKENDIII This TERNOONS ? WE NEED PART TIME Desperately need 2 FSU AND 2 USC WMk8nd, S.pl. 18-20, Ill Beautiful DELIVERY HELP APPLY IN PERSON TIXS ! Money is no object I Call Steve HELP! Mom & Dad need 2 GA's for any home game. Call Matt at 1485. $$$ Need Penn State and USC tickets. Pnce NAVY TIX 1 OR 2GA'S, MICH. ST. 1 GA 
Camp T..,.ereck. For more Into or AT SUN APPLIANCES. 60271 US 31 8~65. 
no object. Call Jim 1163. OR STUDENT, DESPARATELY NEED
regllllrllllon, lllop by Volunt­SOUTH ON WED & THURS BETWEEN t NEED TWO GEORGIA TECH G. A NAVY TIX RIGHT AWAY!! CALL MIKEServtces Ofllce 1111.5 LeFortune. Don't 10 & 4. NO PHONE CALLS. NEED FLORIDA STATE TICKET. Just TICKETS. CALL BILL AT 7289 DESPERATELY NEEDED! 4 GA's to 8854 HELP! 
mlult. A good time Is gu•antMd. one. Cousin coming from Flonda, and USC. Money JS no obfect! Will outbid any
Going east on Route 80 this weekend to she's a beautiful blonde. Call Tom at WILL TRADE 1 PURDUE FOR A MICH. other offer. Call Rob at 8428 Michigan... DEADJ!l
ND under QUARANTINE. it's an Pittsburgh. Need riders• Leave Fri. 9/18, 8620. EPIDEMIC!!!!! return Sun. 9/20. Call SCOTT 1580. 
CALL MIKE AT 1205 HI GRAM HOGANII!!!
Help! Need 2 or more tbc to any game; I need 3 or 4 GA tickets for the Michigan
Volunteers needed to tutor foreign stu· esp. Mtch. St. Call Maureen, 284·4156. Will pay good $$ State game Call 1 222 and ask for Peter Michigan . DEADJI!
dents tn English. Conversational English

~ LOST/FOUND; & vocabulary. Contact VSO. 1.5 l PERSONALSJ 
LaFortune: Ph x7308 Need four FSU GA's. Call Paul8932. Need 2 Navy GA's. Call Susan 8020. Michigan..DEAD!JI 
GILA SUMMER PROJECT PRESENT A· DESPERATE!! Need 6 GA Michtgan tick· 

FOUND-SET OF KEYS AT NOTRE 1 FSU GA. CALL JENNY 8026. 
SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES-.. 
TIONS:
ets!! $$$Call Kris 41-42t2

DAME liBRARY PIT WEDNESDAY September 15·26 TIJUANA, MeXtco project 
EVENING. CALL TRISH 41-4875. Need 2 GA MSU 1ix. Money is no object.
I CQR SALE

'---_________: PLEASE HELP!! Need 2 or 4 Penn St t 0:00p.m. Grace pit 
Call Susan 41 ·436t. 

Social Concerns Film Series FOUND. After LSU game, student football 
GA's. Will pay btg bucks. x1 142. 1 1 :00 p.m. Keenan basement 
To Kill A Mockingbtrd ttX. To claJm, call LJsa (x1298). Must be 1974 Tnumph TR6 yellow. excl cond Will pay MEGA-MEGA BUCKS for a patr Sept. 15, 16. & 17-7& 9:30p.m 
Dear Julianne, 

able lo tdenttfy section, row, and seat $4500, 277·5674 of FLA. ST ltx. Call Marty. x8707 WILL TRADE ONE PURDUE TIK FOR Engtneenng Auditorium Happy four month anntversary! I LOVE
ONE MICHIGAN TIK. CALL JIM 6802. 
numbers FREE AdmtssJon YOU and mJSS you I · 
For sale: Yamaha QT 50. 210 mt. Phone Desperately need 2 or 3 GA's for F.S.U.
LOST: One Quartz Se•ko watch. The Chunks in Salzburg. 
277-5828. R~ng 12 Xs. Will pay BIG bucks. Call Tom 8531 or NEED U.S.C. STUDENT TIX, WILL PAY Social Concerns Film Series 
round watch was lost on Sept 5. at p.s.You never know what James Bond
8529. BUCKS!I! CALL JIM 6802. 
SOMETHING BEAUTIFUL FOR GOD Heathktl AR-15 receiver. $200 Call234· Sep1.15, 16.& 17-12:00noon 
Corby's or ND Ave. and has great sen· might pull. 
ttmental value Reward offered. Call277­
DAD IS. WALKING FROM TACOMA, TRADE MICHIGAN TICKET FOR USC
t596after6. LaFortune Little Theatre 4681 Ann Fenner, thanks for Saturday Night!
WASHINGTON FOR USC GAME! MUST GA. STUDENT, OR CASH IN THAT OR· 
FREE Admtssion Am I better than Carl? O.F

DER CALL JIM 8658. LOST: 7-IRON. CHI-CHI RODRIGUEZ GET 2 TIX! HE HAS ALREADY 
' STARTED WALKING! CALL BILL AT Social Concerns Film Series 
TOURNAMENT (NORTHWESTERN). I , 1678, OR PAUL AT 1670. NEED 2 MSU GA TICKETS. WILL PAY LtZand Beth. 
HOSPITAL

PLEASE CALL x1771. TOP PRICE. CALL 287-2088 Which n~ght for coffee and Kahlua? Or at 
1'JCKETS 

! Sept. 18& 19-7& 9:30p.m. 
least a reunion of the Tues· Thurs lunc:tJ
EVENINGS.

DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA'S FOR Washington Hall 'club.
MSU GAME. CALL KELLY 4407. 
Admission: 50 cents 

FOR RENT I 
Have two FSU ltx. Desire to trade for Will Trade Two alumni MICHIGAN tix for Need a ride and/ or riders to Jersey or
AM WILLING TO TRADE TICKETS TO 
--HAVING A PARTY?--­

MSU. Call Patty 1321. Two PURDUE atumnJ or GA tix, or will ac­Philly by Rte 80 leaving Fri.. !11.25. Call
ROLLINGSTONES DETROIT SHOW We will deliver all the beer. liquor. mixers, 
cept the best monetary offer. Call Ellen at Mike 1181 
FOR TICKETS (STUDENT OR GA) TO cups and ice you need at the lowest prices ...
RENT TO OWN A COLOR TV OR Penn St. ticket wanted, please call Donna 7088 or Patti at 7233. Offers accepted un­
USC. CALL IMMEDIATIELY-I'M 
in town. Call Pete or Mark at 3670 for DESPERATE! CALL CHRIS AT x1678.
STEREO. CALL SUN APPLIANCE 291-at6771. Happy birthday to me.
til Thursday at noon. 5112. 
details. 

The NDI SMC Sailing Clubwill hold its weekly meeting tonight at 6:30p.m. at the boathouse on St. joe's Lake. New members are always welcome. In addition, the club is hosting the Notre Dame Collegiate Regatta this weekend. Eighteen schools are expected to compete, as this is one of three regattas recognized as a qualifying meet for this winter's Sugar Bowl Regatta in New Orleans 
-The Obsen1er 
CrOSS Countryleague intcrhall competition will consist of seven·man teams. All members must be from the same hall. The deadline for entries is today. Entries can be submitted to the NVA office ( C-2 of the ACC) or call 6100. Competition will take place on Burke Memorial Golf course, with the time and date to be an­nounced. -The Obsen,er 
The ND chapterofthe Fellowship ofChristian Athletes ( FCA) is sponsoring a presentation of the Notre Damc-FCA Forum with assistant football coach Tom Lichtenberg tonight. The session will be held in St. Edward's chapel at 8:30p.m. This will be the first of a series of monthly forums. The FCA is a non-denominational group which promotes Christian fellowship among athletes and coaches: 
-The Obserr'er 
Conditioning practices for the Notre Dame var­sity wn·stling team arc being held this week beginning at 4:1 S p.m. each day in the wrestling room at the ACC. All interested students, especially freshmen, are urged to attend. For more information, call BrotherJoe at 74S4. -The Obsen,er 
Notre Dame Rugby Club will start practice tomorrow at 4: IS p.m. behind the ACC on the old interhall soccer fidds. Bring ll3 for South African rugby tickets. Ifthere arc any ques­tions, call Nick Colarelli at 289-3022. -The Observer 
Notre Dame's Gymnastics Club practices every Monday, Wednesday and Friday at Saint Marys' Angela Athletic Facility and every Tuesday and Thursday at Notre Dame's Rockne Memorial. Practices run from 4 to 6 p.m. daily. New members are always welcomed. For more information call Brian McLaughlin at 
1872. -The Observer 
Classifieds
\ 
I UGLY DUCKLING RENT-A-CAR From NEED 2-4 GA 
Women's Gr•d-FacullyMen's Open Singles 

Betty Vail (7389) vs. Susan Roberts (282-1029) Ken White (3588) v. John t Schmitt (3304) Oolite Pashley (287·6738 or 287·6584) v Beth Uh· Bob W1cke (1760) v. Damian Marshall (1509) rig (277·5705) Mike Hay (3312) v. Tom W1lkas (1066) Sally Oerengoskt (277-7325) v. Krtss KwaakDavid McMillan (1629) v. Rowell Reyes (6984) 
Second Hall (3793)
Tom Gibbons (8531) v. John Rudser (1755) 
NATIONAL LEAGUE Ann Detsch -bye
Andrew Cern icky ( 1177) v. Rob Abert (8427) 
East Mike Shanley (3365) v. Neil Hutchmson (8314) 
w L Pet. GB Men's Grad-FacultyJeff Good (8329) v. Jerry Walker (181 1) St. Louis 19 13 .594 

Jim Jenista (277·3306) v. Mtke Caylor (277·3306) Mike Smith (8437) v Rob Trousdale (1 169)Montreal 17 16 .515 2.5 
The followtng have byes: Robert Rodnguez (3281) v. Joe Lubben (1466) Chicago 16 18 .471 4 Royce Ktncatd 
John Eichenlaub (8773) v. Paul Samananti (8258) 
New York 15 18 .455 4.5 
NJckos Apergh•s J1m Lake (6775) v. Jack E1senbeis (1058) Pittsburgh 15 21 .417 6 Jack Jones Mike Burton (1789) v. Tom Yu (1 761)
x-Philadelphia 13 t9 .406 6 Don Zelazny (1761) v. Mike Savarese (1409) 
West Mike Mulhern (1 640) v. Fred Sharp (3252) Houston 22 13 .629 

John Decker (1201) v. Mike Breen (8960) x-Los Angeles 20 15 .571 2 Alex Sz11vas (6931) v. M1ke Lepre (4607) Cincinnati 19 15 .559 2.5 
Mark Melchtor (1721) v. Tom Bauer (1470) 
San Franctsco 19 15 .559 2.5 Dan Dawson (8994) v. Kev1n Simpson (3379) 
Atlanta 18 16 .529 3.5 
Kevin O'Brten (1767) v. Steve Dance (1731) 

San D1ege 11 25 .306 11.5 Dennts Carney ( 1 062) v. Pat Collins (1 201)
x·first half champion Yesterday's Results 
Phil Herron (8895) v. Wally o·connor (1694) 
NO 9, Indiana Central 0 Mark Loman (8833) v. Pete Kerwtn (4627) Yesterday's Results Mtke Keane (1134) v. Nick Grasberger (1488) 
Pittsburgh 8. Chicago 2 Singles 
Jtm Withams (1774) v. Tom Walcott (3314) 
Ctnctnnati 4. Houston 0 No. 1 -Lisa LaFra1ta (ND) del D1ane Johnson Brendan Conroy (1865) v. Andy Smtih (3443) 
St. Louis 3-3. Montreal 2·4 6-1.6·2 
Jeff Wolf (8900) v Dave Sobczak (4625) 
San D1ego 8. Los Angeles 2 No.2-Ltnda Hoyer (ND) def Ten Donovan 6-t. Marty Wall (1075) v. Bill T Kramer (8833) 
San Franc1sco 6. Atlanta 5 6-0. Philadelphia at New York. ppd . ram No.3-Pam Ftschette (ND) def Lynn Hammann 
Pat James (841 0) v. John Grey (4641) Ed Sheerah (1905) v. Tom Jackman (272-8454) 
6·1. 6-0 Mak Murphy (3338) v. Kevin Mclean (8836)
AMERICAN LEAGUE No. 4 -Carol ShukJs (ND) del Debbte Johnson East 6-0.6-0 Men's Singles Novice
w L Pet. GB No.5-Laura Lee (ND) del NancyThompson6-1.Dave Andreas (8681) v. Barry Fay (1028) 
6-0 Bob Gaffney (8685) v. Tom Trozzolo (3324) Detroit 22 12 .647 

x·New York 20 15 57t 2.5 No. 6 -Ltsa Gleason (ND) def Juhe Pnesl 6·0. Ted Dore (6756) v Paul Montgomery (1068) 
Milwaukee 21 16 .568 2.5 6-0 
Ruben Moreno (3361) v. Pat Toole (8609) 

Balttmore 19 15 .559 3 Doubles 
Kevtn Dranss1eld (1751) v. Bill McGowen (7289) 

Boston 18 15 .545 3.5 No. 1 -Hoyer/LaFratta (ND) def. Dtane Toronto 16 17 485 5.5 Johnson/Hammann 6· 1. 6·4.
Robert Tsuchryama (6726) v Vernon Marchal (7291)
Cleveland 17 19 .472 6 No. 2 -Ttna Stephan/Ftschette (ND) del 
Tom Wotdat (3800) v. Greg Koch (233-2274) 

West Donovan/Thompson 6-2. 6·t Kansas City 20 15 .571 No. 3 -Lee/CamJIIe Cooper (ND) del DebbJe x·Oakland 16 17 485 Johnson/Pnest 6-1. 6·2. 
Mmnesota 17 19 .472 3.5 
Women's SinglesTexas 15 18 455 4 Mary SchmJdt (3352) v. Deb1 Tomkawitz (7092) Ch1cago 14 21 .400 

6 Joanne Swteczak (4633) v. Pam Gorskt (1262) Seattle 14 21 400 
6 Maqone Delapena ( 1 326) v Etleen RakochyCall forma 12 21 364 7 (6751) x-ftrst half champton LoUtsa Demello (1261) v. Carolyn Ash (6850) 
• • .Faust

Lynn Koneskt ( 1286) v Molly Walsh (8034) Yesterday's Results 
Lois Gallagher (3750) v Kathy Jeltes (3808) Toronto 4. Mmnesota 2 Ann Mane Norns 11291) v. Jul1e MJddleton (6746) Baltimore 7. Cleveland 6 
Stas1a Obremsky (2913) v. Kathy Tully (2843) M11wauke·e 2. New York 1 Ltnda Radler (2948) v. L•sa Pavin (2738) continuedfrom page 12Texas 12. Oakland 2 
Jenntfer Davtd (2733) v. Ltsa Hemtng (2956) Kansas C1ty 3. Califorma 2 
LJnda Cleveland (4661) v. Barbara P11te (4510) 
Faust outlined specific areas ofim­
Seattle 8. Chicago 4 DetrOit at Boston. ppd .. ram provement tht· Irish will work on in 
pranice this week. "We've got to cut
Mixed Doubles McManus/Pratt (7921) v Welsh/Madden (7946) down on penalties," he noted, "and Neu/Cella (1 734) v Pterce/Cervenek (1424) 

we've got to improve every aspect of 
Kurger/Schmidt (4549) v. Fay/Yurko (1028) Ash/Stmpson (6850) v. Mellon/Gordon (8286) the kicking game." Though general­Grey/KoneskJ (464 1) v. Daoud/Kelter (8042) ly pleased with Notre Dame's overall Callahan/Toner (21 91) v no opponent Burton/Hamner ( 1 789) v. Dav1s/Retlly (7637) 
pcformance, the defense gave away 
Fall tennis tournaments will be single elimination. 
Trousdale/Coogan ( 1 1 69) v EJchenlaub/Hem•ng what Faust called "medium-sized big
Pairings will appear each Wednesday in The Ob· 
(2956) 
server. It IS the responsibility of each part1c1pant to plays,'' and the offense suffered a few
Perez/Mtddleton (3643) v. Geneser/Wolf (2962) contact h1s or her opponent and set up a match m 
Rade/Frank (1417) v Demello/Ciark (1261) break-downs. 
each round. Results of matches must be turned 10 to ­
Unger/Robtnson (1641) v. O'Bremskey/Chadw1ck

the tnterhall office (C-2 ACC) before noon on the (29t3) "I saw some real good signs last followtng Tuesday. Failure to report results will mean 
McGowan/Morrow (7289) v. Bergen /Hackett Saturday," he added, "but we're a d•squallftcation of both partictpants. Results wtll.only 
(332t) be accepted if insurance forms are completed and on 
long way from being a great football 
McGtnn/Tomkowi1z (8t76) v. no opponent

file. tt·am."
Withams/Ford ( 1774) v Lowe/Becker (7570) 

The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail. 
Accompanylst needed for ballet classes.

TIX FOR ALL HOME I DESPERATELY NEED 4 GA'S AND 2 
_... 
The Observer -Sports Wednesday, September 16, 1981 -page 8 

Chicago White Sox broadcasterjimmy Piersall (above) will not be in the booth for the remainder of the season. He bas been suspendedfor the duration because ofa remark be made on the air last week about the players' wives. ( AP Photo) 
SEE THE IRISH IN MICHIGAN, GO BERTZ FROM $16.99 A DAY 

These Economy Fares are 

Touring Rates, subject to change without notice and non-discountable. • 
There are no minimum day and advance reservation requirements, but 
restrictions on wheG and where cars must be returned. Gas is not 
included. Call Hertz 
for details. 

234-3712 at Airport WHERE WINNERS RENT• 
232-5871 Downtown HERTZ RENJS FORDS AND OTHER FINE CARS 

---------------------------------------,
ANYTHING GROWS i 
FLORIST -campusdelivery 

N. IRONWOOu
Hou$e Plants Gifts, Corsages 

at 
TOLL ROAD 
HOUSE PLANTS 

DIRECTLY EAST of CAMPUS
GIFTS, TELEFLORIST 

1I 4mi. N. of Douglas 
WIRE FLOWERS 
272-8820 
25% DISCOUNT FOR HOUSE PLANTS 

...... 
PRESENT THIS COUPON ND-SMCS/81 

~---------------------------------------· 
Six miles 

NROTC to sponsor benefit race 
By TED HAUSSLER forms and promoting the race," says ton Hall. After making their way to Sports Writer the Cavanaugh Hall senior. ''I'll be at the front circle, racers will pass the Century Center in downtown through the main gate and proceed If you don't plan on traveling to South Bend for a running clinic, and behind the South Dining Hall until 
West Lafayette to see the Irish play I hope to draw as many area runners they reach the golf course. Once the Purdue Boilemakers, and you into the race to make for good com­around the golfcourse, a figure eight want to work up a sweat to get in the 
petition, and also to ensure the around the lakes, and back to the proper physical mood to view the success ofthe event." start via the road behind Lewis Hall game on television, then a Saturday 
The course begins at the site of constitutes the final phasl: of the morning road race may be in order. 
the old Credit Union and heads race route. There will be spotters While the campus will be free 
south to the WNDU station where along the marked course, splits at 
from football madness, runners from runners will take a right, and head every mile, and an aid station Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and the for the band annex next to Washing-halfway through the race. South Bend area will assemble at the 
Maintenance Center and Warehouse (site of the old Credit Union) and 
Tale of the Tape 
don their racing flats to participate in a six-mlie benefit roadrace sponsored by the Naval ROTC. 
The race, scheduled to begin at 10 
a.m. Saturday morning September 26 (rain or shine) requires a $5 pre­
zs n 
registration entry fee which can be 
(LEONARD) 

WEIGHT 
dropped off at the ROTC building 
147lbs, !htJ1471bs. located behind the Rockne 


HEIGHT
Memorial between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. 
5'40"· 6'•1'' 
Monday· thru Friday. Registration 
REACH
the morning of the race is $7 and 74'' 18" 
begins at 9 a.m. Proceeds go to the 
CHEST il'i«..,oll
mentally handicapped in the South 
38" 39"
Bend area, especially the nearby CHEST li><P""<'Wi..IJ
Logan Center. 

40" 41"
All registered entrants will receive custom designed T-shirts 
BICEPS 
15" 1S''
and the top male and female t1nisher 
each will receive a trophy. In addi­
WAIST 29" 30"
tion, all entrants will be entered in a 
raffle for dinner for two at the Tip­
THIGH pecanoe Place Restaurant. Also, all 
'20" entrants will receive discount certif­
CAI.f 

icates redeemable at the Athletic An­
nex, a new sporting goods store 
scheduled to open October I, in the 
South Beend area. 

Race organizer Jim Murphy ex­
pects a field of over I 50 runners to 
compete in the event. "I've been 
The, chart above compares the vital statistics of Sugar Ray
attending area races and running 
Leonard (left) and Thomas Hearnsfor their welterweight titlefight
clinics, passing out application 
tonight. (APPhoto). 

• • .Hoops 
our way."

dous pool of student athletes out
continuedfrom page 12 

For the immediate future, Phelps
there. 

is looking to the 1981-82 season. He
"Our goal, obviously, is to recruit
says. "I think it is as good as the class 
has two of the country's best fresh­
the best freshman class in the
that Tripucka, Woolridge and Jack­
man guards ready to start their col­
country. We think we are well on
son came out of. There is a tremen­
legiate careers in Ron Rowan and 
................................................... 
Dan Duff. He also has two new assis­tant coaches, Jim Baron and former 
Notre Dame all-American John Shumate. The team will gather this Sunday 
Roseland 
Aquatics 
for the annual intra-squad softball game with the women's basketballBird~, Tropical Fish, 
players. Another softball game is scheduled for the following Sunday
Hamsters, Pet Supplies 
against the local media. Both games will be held at Jake Kline tiel d. 
We have small African Chiclids 
lOAM to 8 PM 
, , , Items 
Open on Sundays soon 415 Dixieway North, at Roseland, continuedfrompage 12 South Bend, Ind. 219 -277-4862 DOLLY'S PARTNERS-Three col­
legiate basketball coaches who are
·•·················•·•·············•··••··········· 
close to the hearts of most Irish fans 
9~fal iK ~flee ~e oh Aw wed ~"" flee Aoodattie Cewccie? 
If interested, submit a letter including your backround and qualifications by September 22 
to -Howard Cyr 509 W. Navarre South Bend, IN 46616 
(to a greater or lesser degree), have decided to cut a new countrY­western album. Former .\1arquettt: mentor AI McGuire, Indiana Coach Bobby Knight and Kentucky dic­tator Joe B. Hall have teamed up in Nashville to produce a record that should be a\ailable in late fall or ear­ly winter. 
Wire reports quote record producer Gene Large as saying that the album is really Hall's, ·but that "McGuire and Knight will be doing duets with him." Featured cuts will be country classics like 'Elvira,' 'On the Road Again,' 'Good Ole Boys,' 
and  McGuire's  favorite,  'The  
Gambler.'  (Why  not  'Cadillac  
Ranch?')  
I  wonder  what  kind  of album  
Digger would cut?  

-

Sports Special -NO \X'omen's Tennis Wednesday, September 16, 1981 -page 9 
New look 
Irish off to perfect start 
In her rookie season. Fischcuc unable to sec action this year. Stasia 
By PATRICIA STIERWALT 
recorded a .26-'; mark at third singles Obrcmskcy also will be missing 
!.ports Writer 
and a 31-8 mark at sccond double~. from this year's roster. 

Voted Notre Dame·~ Most The doubles situation is usually
"Young but talt:ntnl" is the only way to dc~cribc the 1981-8.2 edition Valuable Player as a freshman. senior hardest for Petro to settle. Current­
of the Notre Dame women's tennis 
Pegj,')' \X'alsh, a Midland, Mich.. ly, Fischcne and Stephan of Bar­product, will play the third singles rington, Ill., arc penciled in at 11rst
team. Five freshman. one sopho­position. Her .28-9 season last year as doubles, Hoyer and Lee are playing
more, one junior and three seniors ­
a junior gave her the winningest second, and freshmen Lisa Gleason·complete the roster for Coach singles season of any player in ND and Cathy Schnell could play third.
Sharon Petro. 
histofy. The team's strength lies in its The "very young team," a!> Petro Freshman Camille Cooper of youth. "The team has improved in all call~ it, should have very few 
Shreveport. La.. will play fourth areas and strokes," claims Petro. 
problems with the fn:shman. One of 
singles. followed by Shukis of "The level of skill has improved them. Lisa LaFratta of Richmond. Ya., 
LaGrange, Ill., at the No. <; slot. cvef)· year I've been here." 
has hcl·n starting at No. I singles this 
Shukis won the state championship Shukis echoes this. "Every year !~til. She already ~'las accumulated 
at No. -1 ~ingles last year. She has won the levd of play and competition in­
three wins for the Irish in season­more singles matches than any creases along with the players. We opening wins over Illinois-Chicago 
player in Irish history. arc getting a higher caliber of Circle (9-0 ). Ferris State (9-0) and 
Completing the· singles lineup players." 
yesterday over Indiana Central (9­
should be freshman Laura Lee of "We're working harder than 0). Augora, Calif. ever," says Petro. "The team is cn­Petro, in her tlfth year as women's 
The team lost two Sl'nior~ from thusiastic and looking forward to an tennis coach. b looking to the up­
last year's team -Cindy Schuster, exciting year. We hope to win the perclassmen "to provide guidance 
who played 11rst singles, and Sheila state championship so we can go to for the freshmen." Cronin. Following recent surgcf)' on the rcgionals (being held in lllinois) Carol Shukb, who along with Tina 
her hand, senior Mary Lcgcay will be in the spring." 
Stephan serves as Irish co-captain, believes "there's a lot of room for improvement since we arc such a young team. The freshmen have helped to motivate the upperclas­smen to improve." 
Sophomore Pam Fischettl' of Liverpool, N.Y., will be pushing LaFratta for the No. I spot. Fischcttc was listed at "-Jo. .2 singles on the prc­scason depth chart, although ycster­day she played third singles while junior Linda Hoyer (Port Clinton, Ohio) played No. 2. 
Fttting in 
Freshmen add enthusiasm 
ByJOE HARMON girls are ranked in the l :nitcd States concentration and an ability to f(>r­.\jwrts If·ritt•r Tcnnis As~ociation in various placc~ gct about cvcrything else, exccpt in the nation." tcnnis. 
Has thl' Class of 19H'i madc an im­Womcn's athletics, according to portant impact on the athletic Coach Petro, b growing rapidly and Camille Cooper. a native of program here at Notre Dame after becoming more rccognizcd and Shreveport, La., ncvcr really had a only being on campu~ for a few respcctcd. coach in high Sl'hool. She t1nds Petro weeks? The answer seems to he "Society is paying more attl·ntion to be very organized and cftkicnt. "yes" -c~pecially on the women's to women's sports and I like it. Ironi­"The team works for the team tl·nnis team. Currently, the team cally, women arc physically mature rather than each player t(>r hcr~elf." consists of I 0 players -t1ve of at thb agc while mcn arc still she notes, "and that's good." which arc freshmen. This is, no growing. Women scc the need to be Camille's one personal goal is to doubt, very unusual, however, strong but must also realize that one be undefeated and "to give it my all" Coach Sharon Petro expresses much can bt· strong and still retain her in every match. conl1denccc as to the talent of this femininity." Coming from Oak Brook, Ill., Lisa yt:ar's squad. When asked how she felt about Gleason is vcry happy with the ten­
"This is dcl1nitcly the best team the t1vc to ten freshmen-team ratio, nis program, t1nding it more dis­we've ever had." states Miss Petro. "I Coach Petro agreed that it is out of iplincd and organized. She also t1nds can demand so much more of these the ordinary but said that the class practice to be most cftl:ctivc in the people -I ask and they give I00 distinctions havcd meergcd to form a drills and the general conditioning. percent effort at all times." very unified group ofpeople. "Being a freshman on a varsity 
The practices arc proving to be There are no frcshmcn scholar­team results in a lack ofexperience, V<.:f)' effective and Petro has seen a ship players on the team right now, but as time passes it will be very 
lot of improvement in many areas. but that might change with the bend1cial to the team and to each Now, after cuts, the new girls fed semester. As for goals and l-xpccta­individual member," says Lisa. "I more relaxed and an: getting ad­tions, Miss Pt'tro and the team arc want the team to haVl' the best 
justed to their schedules and striving for a ranking of t1rst in the record possible and hope that I can practices. There are six singles state and a top ten scat in the contribtc to it." players and three doubles players country. Laura Lee believes that Notre nHnpeting for the team right now. Lisa Lafratta, who is the "-Jo. Dame tennis b dd1nitdy diftl:rcnt 
:\1 i~s Petro feels the t1vc ffl·shmcn plavcr on the tl·am. comes to "-Jotrc and more competitive than her high girls had good cxpcrkm:c in high Dame from Ril·hmond. Virginia. Lisa school tennis program back in school and were well prcparl·d t1nds that being a team member i~ a Ag!>ura. Calif. Lee is very pleased bdorl· coming to Notre Dame. rcal asset a~ wdl as a good with having l(>ur other freshmen on 
"We han· tournament-wise oprotunity ''to be a part of soml·­thc team with her. playt:rs thcs year whid1 is difkrenl thing". She abo fed.~ that a tkdicated "I think it's great! It'~ a good from pa~t ~casons. Three of the new tennis player must have a willing kcling to know that I have a lot in 
Name  Cl.  Hometown  
Cooper, Camille  Fr.  Shreveport, La.  
Fischette, Pam  So.  Liverpool, N.Y.  
Gleason, Lisa  Fr.  Oak Brook, Ill.  
Hoyer, Linda  Jr.  Port Clinton, Ohio  
LaFratta, Lisa  Fr.  Richmond, Va.  
Lee, laura  Fr.  Aguora, Calif.  
Schnell, Cathy  Fr.  St. Louis, Mo.  
x-Shukis, Carol  Sr.  LaGrange, Ill.  
x-Stephan, Tina  Sr.  Barrington, Ill.  
Walsh, Peggy  Sr.  Midland, Mich.  
x-denotes co-captains  

o>mmon with my peers. \\'l•'rc all good friends. we'rl· all naive to an extent, and we all have something to look foward to -building a strong, winning team." 
The 11nal freshmen tennis player is Cathy Schnell. who comes from Bal­lwin, .\1o. She ha~ a positive attitude about the team too, and hope~ thil> attitude pays oft· on the court~. 
"The upperclassmen have been ~upcr! Thcy'rl-nevcr too busy to say something nice or just to encourage ml·." 
She sec~ the practice~ as strcnuou~ and long, but also a~ good work-out~ that will hopefully lead up to a successful season. 
Scoreboard 
1981 Notre Dame Women's Tennis Scoreboard (Won 3, Lost O) 
Notre Dame 9, Illinois-Chicago Circle 0 Notre Dame 9, Ferris State 0 Notre Dame 9, Indiana Central 0 
Sept. 17 (Thur.) at Wheaton 3:30p.m. 19 (Sat.) EVANSVILLE lOa.m. 
~~ 

25 (Fri.) at Taylor 3:30p.m. 26 (Sat.) at Ball State 9a.m. 29 (Tue.) at Valparaiso 3:30p.m. 
Oct. 2 (Fri.) at Northwestern lp.m. 4-5 (Sun.­Mon.) IRISH INVITATIONAL8 a.m. 
9­

10 (Fri.-Sat.) at AIAW Tournament 8 a.m. 13 (Tue.) SAINT MARY'S 3:30p.m. 

-


-
The Observer Wednesday, September 16, 1981 -page 10 
KINGS c,tLLAR 
GENERIC BEER REGULAR or LIGHT 24/12 OZ. CANS 
• 

HAMM'S 
24/12 OZ. CANS 
BUDWEISER 
or 

SCHLITZ 
24/12 OZ. CANS 
MILLER LITE 
24/12 OZ. CANS 
24
99
GENERIC KEG _ 
REGULAR OR LIGHT -Y2 BARREL 

CHECK OUR IMPORT SECTION 
ICK-OFF 
BURGUNDY, CHABLIS, RHINE, YIN ROSE, PINK CHABLIS 
3.0 LITER 

99 
PERE PATRIARCHE 
ROUGE OR BLANC 
.349 

750ML. 
NEW "BAG IN A BOX" 
YOUR CHOICE-4 LITER 
SUMMIT 
• 
Burgundy • Chablis 

• 
Rose • Yin Rose 


ALL NICOLAS WINES 30% OFF 
YOUR CHOICE 
FINLANDIA VODKA orGRANT'S SCOTCH 

99
750 
ML. 
GRANT'S DICKEL #8 750 ML. 
MYER'S RUM 750 ML. 999
WILD TURKEY 101 o 75o ML 499AMARETTO d'Gaetano 750 ML. 
5
E&J BRANDY t.75 Liter 1199 99
ROMANTIQUE 750 ML. 
SPIRITS SUPERMARKETS: • 1621 So. Btnd Ave., SOUTH BEND, 233-4603 • 6502 Grape Rd., MISHAWAKA, 277-7116 • 200 N. Main St., ELKHART, 295-6310 
• 254 Dixit Hwy. N., ROSELAND, 272-2522 • 1910 Uncolnway E., SOUTH BEND 233-8430 SPIRITS MINI ~fTS: • 1426 Mishawalla Ave., 217-7744 • 4401 S. Michi&an, 291·2600 • 2134 E. McKinley Ave., 233-9466 • 1725 N. Ironwood, 272-7144 
PRICES GOOD THRU SEPT. 21 WHILE QUANTITIES LAST 
STORE HOURS: 

Mon.-Thuro. 9 Lm.·IO p.m. • GIFT CERTIFICATES A Y AILABLE 
-
Fri. & Sat. 9 a.m.·ll p.m. 
• CHECK OUR IN-STORE SPECIALS 
..-----~ 
Jrhe~~-~~u~~====~====~-=-=-=-=================-~==-=--============= 
T0 dax'==============W=e=d=n=e;:sd=a=y='=S=e=p=te=m=b=e=r=16=,=1=9=8=1==p=a=ge=ll 

Molarity 
I'M OV6T IN /HIS BoW 6D I CAN17\LK 1?J YOU j..,}JTHDUI PR16!f{1131JI/J~ ~U. 
You'RE NtJr F/fl6rHTfNED, ltR£ You?I HDf>£ NOT 



ONLY. . . YOU "tlf NOT 5UPP::J,St:_ m HOW REVC:I.VIt1!6 ll0011S. Iiiii) IJCJW 5Ht ·s IN T!IIICTION. 

The Daily Crossword 
©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Michael Molinelli 

I WENT TO <:>EE Ht~, SUT :>HE KePT SC!(ff'/JMII'JJ, "G-eT H/1'1 .4W11Y.' GtT H!/'1 fiWIIY.'" 
OVttf AIIO OVetf. THe DO(TO!fS /1/IDE /'It ctllVc. 
Campus 
•12:00 
p.m. -film, "something beaufitul for god", Iafortune little theater, documentary about mother theresa. 

•12: 
1 5 p.m. -microbiology dept seminar; "the 


·role of membrane lipids in the immunologically mediated killing of tumor cells." of tumor cells dr. seymour i. schlager. notre dame , galvin auditorium, sponsored by microbiology dept. 
• 
3:30 p.m. -johns manville. american enter. lecture. "the moral basis of business enterprise", prof. irving kr.istol, n.y. university, memorial library auditorium, sponsored by business ad min. 

• 
3:30p.m.-computer mini-course, script kickoff session-a self-paced study course. 115 ccmb. 

•4:00 
p.m. -game, soccer -nd vs. valparaiso. alumni field. 

•4:20 
p.m. -coll<)quium. "recent developments in the use of synchrotron radiation", dr. francois willeumier, university ofparis, IIH nieuwland. 

•4:30 
p.m. -kenna lecture series, session 3. "a duality operation in the character ring of a finite chevally group", prof. c.w. curtis, 226 ccmb. 

•4:30 
p.m. -lecture, reilly lecture in chemistry "laser time resolved studit:s on photobiological systems"., prof. mustafa cl-sayad. 123 nicuwland, sponsored by chemistry dept. 

•6:30 
p.m. -meeting, judicial system informa­tion. regina north lounge, smc. mandatory meeting for smc freshmen. 

•7:00 
p.m. -workshop, freshman council workshop, regfna north lounge. 

•7:00 
p.m. -simulation, dr. joe helling, 105 science bldg., smc, smc energy week. 

•H:30 
p.m. -meeting, fellowship of christian ath· letes, tom lichtenhurg. football coach, st. edward's hall chapel. 

•7:00 
and 9:30 p.m. film. "to kill a mockinghird", engineering auditorium. free. 


7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8:00p.m 
8:30p.m. 
9:00 p.m. 
10:00 p.m. 
10:30 p.m. 
11:00 
11:30 p.m. 
12:00 p.m. 

Television Tonight 
16  Real Peopll'  
22  Special Movit-­" All Quiet on The  
Western Front'"  
28  Greatest American Hero  
34  Julia Child & More Co.  
46  Miracle Revival Hour  
34  The Victory Gardt·n  
46  \lo;"_V_ (;rant  
16  Diff'rent Strokes  
28  Vegas  
34  Sneak Previews  
46  Lester Sumrall Tea<·hing Series  
16  Quincy  
34  Vic Braden's Tennis  
46  !'altern for Living  
28  Dynasty  
34  Masterpiece Theatrt·  
46  Today With l.estt·r Sumrall  
16  Newscenter 16  
22  21. Eyewitness news  
28  Newswatch 2H  
34  Tht· Dick Cavell Show  
46  Jack Von Impe  
16  Tonight Show  
22  WKRI'/ Feature Movie  
28  NIIC News Night!in<'  
34  Captioned ABC News  
46  lllackwood Brothers  
28  Love Boat  
34  Sign Off  
46  Praise the Lord  
16  Tomorrow Coast to Coast  
46  Sign Off  

..,. 
ACROSS 1 Indisposed 5 Reduce 
greatly 10 Minister to 14 Exude 15 Anchor 
line 16 Curved molding 17 Kind of 
entertainer 20 Row 21 Corrida 
sounds 22 Spiteful 23 Bridge or 
booth 24 College club 26 Gambles 

29 Disturbers 
of peace 32 Concerning 33 Biblical 
mount 34 A homophone for you 
36 Show enthu· siastic approval 
40 Female 
lobster 41 Sins 42 Balanced 43 Thorough· 
fares 45 Takes a siesta .1 47 Latin les· son word 48 Fiasco 
49 As easy­52 Russian sea 53 Business 
degree 56 Acclaim for 17 A 60 Phoenician city 61 Scandina­vian 62 -uncertain 
terms 63 Fired 64 Hits 65 Bovines· 
DOWN 1 Passable 2 Jot 3 Autocrat 4 Range 5 Oars 6 Coat 
feature 7 Fundamen· tals 8 Highway sign 9 Skirt 
bottom 10 Yet 11 Auspices 12 Shipshape 13 Refute 18 Mat or man 19 Descended 
from the same mother 23 Adolescent 

24 Helsinki 
natives 25 Kind of hog 26 Kind of 
bone 27 Ponies up 28 Actor Cary 29 Iran coins 30 Fasten 
with rope 31 Kind of 
stakes 33 Land points 35 Eagles 37 Judged 38 Iris layer 39 Dickens' 
villain 44 Poured 45 Toils 46 What she 
wants, she 

gets 48 Poet Robert 49 Detective's 
dog 50 Mythical 
river 51 Peel 52 Indian city 53 Pert girl 54 Skeletal 
part 55 Presently 57 Those 
elected 58 Today 59 Juan's 
uncle 


1111
(l(l~~Imlli ~J.PimCO~ week
The Student Union presents 

at ~ImA"r~CIDrn ill.illB.9
* ~ 

...... .. .... 
Tonight: !l1ID:1~®~1' ~®l1ID~'! ~ -Super Special
.....................-\lilt? (()fllfll()cl()lf?§ ............... 
9:30-1 J :30 normal special after 11:30 
........ ........ ******************************t..... .... 
:........... Concert Ticket Lottery •....... Thursday September 17 Watermelons Friday September 18 Margaritas 
Saturday September 19 ~ne Cooler
7 PM Thursday September 17 in the Nazz 
r 
Our new ''Super Specials ' ' will Surely Surprise You //// 
Awaits Michigan 
Faust reflects on LSU win 
-

Wednesday, September 16, 1981 -page 12
orts 


By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

Beating Louisiana State is one big reason Gerry Faust has pleasant memories about Saturday's game. But as he indicated to a host ofmedia people around the country yester­day, it's not the only thing that's made him all smiles this week. 
"Seeing how much the young men enjoyed themselves really made my day," said the Notre Dame. coach, who dressed 121 players for the home opener. Only 120 were scheduled to wear uniforms, but one player, an injured freshman, asked Faust if he could put on a jersey and run through the tunnel with his teammates. 
"After the game he came and told me, 'You don't know what a thrill that was for me, Coach,' and I said 'Yes I do, I just experienced it myself."' 
For the most p·art, Faust enjoyed his afternoon on the sidelines, but at the same time, he was also arixious for the final whistle to blow. "Coach Higgins and I are both used to the. 12 minute quarters they play in high school," he.chuckled. "We kept ask­ing Jim Johnson, 'Hey, when is this game going to get over with?' We just wanted to get that first victory under our belt." 
And that first one was worth the wait, as it gave the Irish their No. 1 ranking. "When you take the Notre Dame job, the monkey's on your back no matter what, so it doesn't 
Replace 'Wolvewines ' 

Irish reach top ... agatn• 
CLOUD ONE -It came sooner than most people 
expected, or even hoped for, but the Irish are already 
atop the nation's college football polls. The last time the 
Irish topped the college ratings was last season, when 
an Arizona upset over UCLA, Alabama's loss to Mississip­

pi State and a 33-0 Irish win over Navy on November 1 combined to vault Notre Dame to the front of the col­legiate pack. ( 11-3 in 1909, 35-12 in 1943 and 12-10 in t979). Notre 

However, the glory was short-lived when the Irish Dame also boasts a combined 159-70-13 record against bother me to be rated first," Faust admitted at his weekly national telephone press conference. "Whether we deserve it or not, I don't know, but I'm sort ofenjoying it right now. I may change my mind on Saturday, though." 

That's when the 12:50 p.m. nationally-televised kick-off against last week's No. I team takes place. "Any time a great football team like !\1ichigan comes off a loss like that. they're twice as tough to beat. And Bo (Schembechler) will work them twice as hard this week, too.". 
Rumours have circled that part of Schembechkr's preparation for Notre Dame has included viewing Moeller's game films. "I know he didn't get them from Moeller," Faust said. "I've also heard Bo has !\1orehead State and Air Force films," he added, referring to the schools at which assistants Tom Lichtenberg and Tom Backhus last coached. But as to whether there was anything in those films that would help the Wol­verine coach, Faust replied with a grin, "I'm going to let Bo figure that out." 
Michigan will have its hands full figuring out how to defense against a multiple offense run by two first­string quarterbacks. Blair Kiel started last week's game and al­ternated with Tim Koegel. 
"They'll continue to alternate every two series," explained Faust, "but Tim will start based on his per­formance Saturday. We have two first-string quarterbacks, and both are very important to our offense. We feel they both can contrib1,1te to the football game." 
If one has a hotter hand than the 
other, Faust indicated the possibility 
of sticking with just that player. but 
he'd do it reluctantly. "We don't 
want to put added pressure on 
anyone hy taking him out because of 
a mistake." 
See FAUST, page 7 

Kickers crack Top 20; 
shut out St. Joseph's, 10-0 
There was nothing but good Senior co-captain Sami Kahale news for the Notre Dame soccer scored a hat trick (three goals) in team yesterday. A 10-0 thrashing less than 30 minutes. Freshman of visiting St. Joseph's last night Rick Herdegen got the first goal on Cartier Field set:med almost of the ·evening, scoring on a insignificant compared to the header off. a corner kick from news the team received earlier in junior Mike Sullivan just one the day. minute into the game. 
In this week's rankings of the 
Notre Dame outshot St. Joe's,country's college soccer teams, 

31-4.

the Fighting Irish were rated No. 
Sophomore forward RobI9 in the nation. This marks the Snyder contributed two assists,fir~t time _in history that Notre and junior Jay Schwartz andDame has been nationally ranked freshman Steve Chang had a goalin soccer. No doubt the recogni­and an assist apiece.

tion stems from the team's stun­The Irish close out a four-gamening upset of sixth-ranked St. 
home stand this afternoon whenLouis here Sunday. 
they entertain Valparaiso. TheLast night's win boosts the 

game is scheduled for 4 p.m onoverall record to 4-0 and was the Alumni Field (east ofCartier).

third shutout of the season. 
tied Georgia Tech the following week and fell per­Big Ten teams.

manently froin the No. 1 spot. Rebuilding begins for Phelps; 
ON THE TUBE AGAIN -Notre Dame has posted aThe last time Notre Dame claimed rights to the top 2 7-19-1 record on national television and an 1 1-10-1 spot this early in the season was 1977, when pre-season figure on regional telecasts since 1952 for a video vic­polls rated the Irish best in the nation, and a 19-9 
recruit Dolan signs with Irish
tory mark of38-29-2. The Irish were 2-2 before the eyesopening win over Pittsburgh solidified Notre Dame's of the country last season, earning a 7-0 win overposition. The following weekend, though, Mississippi Alabama and dropping decisions to Southern Cal ( 20-3) his unselfishness and his team play.
notched a 20-13 upset win, forcing the Irish to earn By SKIP DESJARDIN 
and Georgia ( 1 7-10) in national telecasts. The Irish also He is a very good passer."
their last national championship by stonewalling Earl Sports Writer 
notched a 31-10 regional win over Purdue in the season The Irish coach has called this aCampbell and the Texas Longhorns, 38-10 in the opener for both teams. "student year." The support of the
season-ending Cotton Bowl. The rebuilding has begun.
Michigan and Notre Dame have split a pair ofregional student body, along with that of
WOLVEWINE WIVAL WY -The Irish will engage the "I have been on the road for four 
broadcasts, the Wolverines winning in Notre Dame South Bend residents, the faculty,
Wolverines of Michigan for the 15th time on Saturday, months," says Digger Phelps, "I've 
Stadium in I978 and the Irish clinching that 1979 tri­cheerleaders and band are vital, he
with the Wolves holding a dominant 10-4 edge in the been in 16 homes, and I've signed
umph. says.
series. With the exception of the University ofChicago one recruit. Now it's time to get
NUMBERS PLEASE -Notre Dame's Sports Informa­"If they give us three months of
( 4-0 against the Irish, all before 1900) and Georgia ( 1-0 busy on this season." 
tion staff expected to put their calculators to work support, we'll give them a fourth 
vs. Notre Dame thanks to last season's Sugar Bowl), In May, Phelps and the Notre 
when it came to figuring Saturday's game statistics, but month. We will get to the NCAA
Michigan has by far the best all-time record ofany team Dame basketball program lost six 
they didn't realize they would need an adding machine tournament. We will win our 20
against the Irish. players. Two new players are on 
just to keep track of players in. the game. Of the 121 games. But it won't be easy."
Notre Dame lost its first eight games to Michigan be­campus now, awaiting the October 
players dressed for the LSU game, no less than 65 saw The loss ofcenterJoe Kleine, who
tween I887 and 1908. The series ended temporarily 15th opening ofworkouts. One high
action, including five quarterbacks. Junior walk-on Jim transferred to Arkansas, will make
after an· Irish win in 1909 and was resumed in 1942 and school senior has signed to attend 
O'Hara, the fifth signal-caller, was not even listed on the that task even tougher. But Phelps al­
'43 when the Irish and Michigan split a pair of games. Notre Dame next fall, and Phelps ex­
flip card rosters provided to the media. And freshman ready is well on his way to having a
The rivalry was renewed again in 1978 with a 28-14 pects four more to follow suit. 
tailback Chris Smith, who was not listed on the two­powerhouse team again.
Michigan win in Notre Dame Stadium, but the Irish have The latest edition to the spble is 
deep Irish position charts, finished as the game's "We lost four front-line men in
stood atop Bo's boys after their last two encounters. 6-8, 215-pound forward Jim Dolan. 
second-leading rusher with 61 yards. Kleine, Woolridge, Tripucka and
The series with Michigan will continue until 1982, The Toms River, N.J., native an­
HURRICANES FLAGGED -The University of Miami, Salinas. Jackson was our swing-man,
take a two-year hiatus and then resume through 1990. nounced his intentions yesterday.
which plays host to the Irish in their November 28 and Wilcox a guard. At the end of
THREE'S COMPANY -Field goals have been the "Jimmy had a great summer in 
regular season wrap-up, may have more to worry about this season, we'll lose Mike Mitchell. 
name of the last two Nmre Dame-Michigan games. Last clinics and all-star games," says
this season than just playing Notre Dame. University So we are going to have to fill seven
a

year's 51-yard field goal by Harry Oliver as time expired Phelps. "We saw him play few 
President Edward T. Foote said that internal investiga­slots with five recruits.
(and the wind stopped) keyed a 29-27 comeback viet times and were very impressed. If I 
tions have confirmed 40 to 50 recruiting violations "In other words, we are looking
tory that prompted a headline in a Michigan paper had to describe him, I'd call him a 
charged by the NCAA, but he added that the school will for thr~e front-line players, a swing­
which read, "Michigan 27, Notre Dame 26, God 3." 6-8 Jim ~anarkal. Spanarkal was a 
contest or would not confirm some 50 other allega­man and a guard."
The last tussle in Ann Arbor in 1979 was decided great guard with Duke, but Jimmy
tions. Since June, Phelps has been back
when Bob Crable vaulted the Irish line to block a last­can do a lot ofthe same things.
Many of the charges involve too many visits to and forth across the country recruit­
second Wolverine field goal. Notre Dame placekicker "He's the kind of player who will 
recruits by alumni, coaches and other school ing. He has seen all but two of the
Chuck Male (Remember him? He was the guy before: get that rebound in the last minute 
representatives between I976 and 1980, as well as al­players he wants. The field has been
Harry Oliver) accounted for all Irish scoring in the 12-of the game, or he'll hit the one-and­
legations that recruits made more than the allowed narrowed to 18 players.
10 decision. one when you need it. He's there 
number oftrips to the Miami campus. "This is an outstanding class com­
ON THE ROAD AGAIN -Although Notre Dame is when you least expect it. 
ing out of high school this year," he

only 3-4 in Ann Arbor during their grid history, they See ITEMS, page 8 "More than anything else,'' Phleps have won the last three battles waged on Michigan soil continues, "we were impressed with See HOOPS, page 8 




