-·~---~-----­
.S.O.S.-page 5
' ' 

VOL. XVII, NO. 46 the llltkpenduH ~tudent llt'\\'>P~IIXT -~tT\·ing Il<>ln: dame and -.ailllman··., WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 3. 1982 
Dents gain ground on GOP opponents 
WASHll\<iTO:-.; (AP) Republicans re-elected were Sens. Republicans prc~ervnltheir control Orrin Hatch of l'tah. Willimm V. of the Senate ~:arty today, keeping it Roth of Delaware. Richard Lugar of .,at!:-for Reaganomics despite big­Indiana and John Heinz of Pennsyl­vote victories for liberal Democratic vania. incumbents including Sen. Edward And Sen. Lowell Weicker, the :\1. Kennedy of Massachusetts. maverick Republican from Connec­
GOP incumbents in eight stat<:s ticut. won his race against Rep. Toby were re-elected, and Harrison ~1offctt. Schmitt of ~ew :\lexico alone The Democrats had needed a net among them was denied a new term. gain of five scats to topple Eighteen Democratic incumbents Republican control of the Senate; all seeking new terms won. as welL tolled. their gain was one scat. with 
Democrats also picked up an open tht· undecided races a standoff be­scat in :'>Jew Jersey, when business­tween the parties. man frank Lautenberg scored an up­Republican Sen. John C Danforth set win over GOP Rep. Millicent of Missouri won a hard-fought vic­fenwick. tory in a fierce battle with Democrat 
But the GOP countered those Harriett Woods, a state senator. losses by picking up a seat in Vir­In Minnesota, Mark Dayton, the ginia, where Rep. Paul S. Trible department store heir who ran on defeated Democatic Gov. Lt. Gov. his own millions, lost to Republican Richard Davis. Sen. David Durenberger. 
Queen. john Paul spoke outyesterday against the
Combined with 41 holdover The reverse was true in Nevada, 
campaign pledges ofFelipe Gonzalez, Spain's So­
seats, that meant Republicans could where Republican Chic Hecht 
cial Premier. ( APPhoto)
count on at least 50 seats when the edged ahead of Democratic Sen. 1 new Senate convenes in January. Howard W. Cannon. The GOP used its control in the Democratic senators led for re­Senate the past two years to propel election in Hawaii, Montana and 
Temporary basis 
President Reagan's tax and spending Arizona Republican incumbents proposals to congressional pasage, were ahead in Vermont, Rhode Is­and Reagan said the prospect of land and Wyoming. 
U.S. to send advisers to Lebanon 
Democrats winning control in the package due to be discussed with
middle of his own term gave him George Wallace, the Democrat WASHINGTON (AP)-U.S. train­Congres:; early next year for addi­nightmares. who won Alabama's governorship ing teams are expected to be sent to Lebanese President Amin Gemayel tional funding as needed. in Beirut. The U.S. proposal is being
with the baule cry "Segregation Lebanon soon to begin working with The major objective of the U.S.
The Democratic senators who forever!" decades ago, was success­the Lebanese army so it can take presented by Assistant Defense program is to strengthen at least 16
gained new terms were Edward ful in his bid to conv-ert his rein­over security responsibilities and al­battalions of the Lebanese army be­
Secretary Francis). West on behalfofKennedy of Massachusetts, William President Reagan, officials said. 
carnation as a political moderate low a multinational peacekeeping tween now and February.
Proxmire of Wisconsin, Quentin IfGemayel accepts the plan, as ex­
into a fourth term at the job. force to withdraw, Pentagon offi­This suggests that the 3,800-manBurdick of North Dakota, Howard pected, a small "security assistance
And Democrats looked for major cials said yesterday. multinational peacekeeping force,Metzenbaum of Ohio, James Sasser office" numbering perhaps a half­
gains across the nation in the 36 The officials, who asked not to be including about 1,200 U.S. Marinesof Tennessee, Robert Byrd of West dozen militan· officers will be es­
statehouse contests. U.S. and French and Italian contingents,
Virginia, Paul Sarbanes of Maryland, idemified, said the plan con­oversee
templates 50 to 60 U.S. military ad­tablished in Beirut to the may remain in the country into the
Edward Zorinsky of Nebraska, John Democratic Govs. Richard Riley visers serving in Lebanon on a winter.
U.S. effort to upgrade the Lebanese
C. Stennis of Mississippi, Donald of South Carolina and Robert temporary basis. Not all the teams army, give it a wide range of
Riegle of Michigan, George Mitchell Graham of Florida swept to new Some details of the aid program 
weapons and equipment and train·
will necessarily be in the country at carried to Gemayel were revealed
of Maine, Lloyd Bentsen of Texas, terms. the same time, officials said. the day after Reagan announced that
ing. This headquarters will be staffedDaniel Patrick Moynihan of New 
See ELECTIONS, page 5 This is one element of an aid bv oficers from the U.S. European the U.S. Marines will expand theirYork and Lawton Chiles of Florida. 
c'ommand, which has responsibility 
activities to conduct "limited for the Middle East. patrols" in East Beirut. Until now, 
Equipment for the Lebanese army the U.S. Marines have been confined also is expected to arrive in Beirut to the Beirut International Airport soon, including about 24 armored and a small stretch ofcoastline. 
ResignsN.D. post 


Egan joins Chicago~ Bernardin 
troop carriers and a dozen or more White House and Defense officials15Smm artillery guns. 

said the size of the Marine force inMonsignor John ). Egan, a leader powerless and even as we try which coordinates the activities Pentagon officials estimated that Lebanon would not be increased he­
in social justice causes in the enjoyed his talems at Notre Dame, of the Center for Pastoral Liturgy, about several million dollars are cause of the broadened activities.
Archdiocese of Chicago before we knew that someday he would be the Institute for Clergy Education, available for Lebanon in cash and The Marines will not be authorizeddeparting in 1970 for Notre Dame, called to finish his splendid ministry the Religious Leaders Program, and credits for beefing up that country's to take part in what were describedwill be returning to Chicago next where he began it-in Chicago." the Center for Social Concerns. 
army. Also, they said the Reagan ad-as "direct security missions," the of­spring, according to a release from Archbishop Bernardin had this Egan's resignation is expected to ministration could ask the new ficials said. 
Notre Dame Information Services. statement: "I am delighted that as become effective next April. Since 1976, Egan has served as Monsignor John Egan completes his special assistant to Notre Dame's work at Notre Dame, he will be 
On Schell's book
president, Father Theodore M. Hes­returning to an assignment here in burgh, as well as directing the Uni­the Archdiocese of Chicago. Just as versity's programs in service to the he has distinguished himself in his 
Hesburgh to headnucleardiscussion
CathoLic Church. service to the Lord and to the 

His return to Chicago came about Church through his work at the Uni­By MICHELE DIETZ nuclear power, as a launching pad will be different from normal through a mutual agreememt with 
versity, and in many important pas­Assistant News Editor for the discu!osion. The program debates," Professor Alven Neiman, a Archbishop Joseph L Bernardin, 
toral duties prior to that, so I am begins at 7 p.m. in Stepan Center. professor ofthe core course, said. "It who said he would consult with the confident that he will contribute in a University President Father Hesburgh joins three Notre Dame will raise questions one must con­Archdiocesan Personnel Board to significant way to furthering the Theodore Hesburgh, recently professors from fields that parallel sider to decide on the issues, to take determine how the 65-year-old work of the Gospel as he returns abroad in his efforts to address the three perspecttves Schell uses in his a specific position." 
priest, experienced in urban minis­home." 

nuclear issue, will moderate a panel book. William McGlinn, professor of Neiman said that the main best the
try, might serve As pastor of Presentation Parish discusson tonight that will strive to physics, will lend his knowledge to a purpose of the panel discussion will archdiocese. 
from 1966 to 1970 and as director of inform students of the urgency of scientific perspecive of the situa­be to make students aware of the 
"Jack Egan is a man who makes a the Archdiocesan Office ofUrban Af­the current situation. tion. A moral-theological stance will issues. "I'm hoping that students difference," Hesburgh commented 
fairs from 1958 to 1969, Egan drew This explosive issue, hotly be given by ProfessorJohn Yoder of come to understand just hew impor­in accepting his resignation at Notre national auention for use of com­
debated by politicians for years, wa.o; Theology. Finally, a political view­tant this issue is." Dame. "Before I asked him to come munity organization in meeting part ofmany platforms in yesterday's point will be portrayed by govern­He added that pros and cons may to Notre Dame, he was a pioneer in inner-city needs as well as his out­nationwide elections and continues ment ProfessorJohn Roos. or may not be given, but that the the social action movement in spoken support for civil rights. He to be not only a national, but a major Opening remarks by Hesburgh major thrust is just to make people Chicago. He has had a profound in­was founder of the Catholic Com­worldwide concern. will be followed by those by the think for themselves and form their 
fluence at Notre Dame, bringing the munity on Urban Ministry. a net­

The panel discussion focuses on three professors. A 30-minute ques­own knowledgeable opinions. He academic resources of the Univer­
work of priests, religious and laity the nuclear peril and will use the tion and answer session, moderated added, however, that he would be sity to bear on concrete pastoral 
dealing with social justice issues recently published book, The Fate of by Hesburgh, will follow. surprised if Hesburgh does not talk needs of the Church. He has always across the country. 
the Earth, byJonathan Schell, a work The program is sponsored by the about his recent involvement, and advocate those
been an for who At Notre Dame, he heads the In­renowned for iu compelling dis­College of Arts and Letters Sopho­have none -the poor and the stitute of Social and Pa.o;toral Minis-course on the consequences of more Core Course. "The discussion See HESBURGH, page 4 





1News Brie/§ 
Wednesday, November 3, 1982-page 2 

Southern California awakeniflg 

By The Obsen•er and The Associated Press 
A $25,000 granthas been awarded to the University of Notre Dame by the Rockefeller Foundation to catalogue and preserve the papers of Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, University Presi­dent. The grant was in recognition ofHesburgh's 21 years ofservice on the foundation's board of trustees, five of them as chairman before his retirement earlier this year. Another grant of $25,000 was given to Yale University for work on the papers of-Cyrus R. Vance, former Secretary of State, who was a foundation board member for eight years, one of them as chairman. Vance also retired from the board earlier this year. Hesburgh's papers include those collected during almost three decades of public service, beginning with the first of 14 presidential appointments, that to the National Science Board in 1954. All are in the University's Archives, with the excep­tion of those from his 15 years on the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, which are in the Center for Civil and Human Rights in the Notre Dame Law School. -The Observer 
LaPorte Mayor Aloysius RumelyJr., the 
victim of a gunman's attack at his home Memorial Day, was barely conscious and in very critical condition yesterday, officials at St. joseph's Medical Center said. Rumely's condition has steadily deteriorated in the last two weeks, hospital spokesman Russ Ken­nedy said. Rumely, who was shot three times by an intruder at his home May 31, has developed internal bleeding and still is plagued by abscess a~d internal infections, Kennedy said. The 71-year-old mayor has been in critical condition since the shooting at his home that claimed the life of his wife, Frances. She was shot twice in the attack and died from blood loss. Harold W. Lang, 30, a former LaPorte city employee, is charged with murder, attempted murder and burglary in the shootings. City officials have said Lang, who lived less than three blocks from the Rumelys, may have attacked the mayor and his wife because Rumely would not help him get his job back at the city's sewage treatment plant. -AP 
Asmall airplanepiloted by controversial evangelist Lester Roloff crashed in a field near here yesterday, killing all five people aboard, officials said. Roloff took off in his Cessna 210 about 
8:30 am. with four other people to go to Kansas City to preach at a service at Calvary Baptist Church in Roosterville, Mo., yesterday night, said Dave Walkden, communications director for Roloff Evan­gelistic Enterprises. Texas Department of Public Safety spokesman Sam Saxon confirmed that the 68-year-old Roloff, a Baptist minister, was among the dead. George Burlage of th Federal Aviation Ad­ministration in Fort Worth said Roloff was registered on the plane's flight plan as the pilot of the aircraft, which was registered to the Rooff organization. The plane, en route from Corpus Christi to Kansas City, disappeared off radar at 10:18 a.m. without any indica­tion oftrouble, Burlage said. The wreckage was discovered about an hour later, he said. -AP 
PopeJohn Paul IIshook hands with Spain's Socialist premier-designate yesterday, then hours later spoke out against the new leader's campaign pledges to liberalize laws on divorce, con­traception and abortion. The Roman Catholic pontiff said his meeting with Felipe Gonzalez, whose Socialist Party won last week's general election by a landslide, should "remove any doubts -if there ever were any -about my respect for the country's freely elected leaders." He told Gonzalez and other political and military leaders the church respects "the temporal order ofthings" but must make itself heard on matters "that have to do with God and influence the conscience of his children, in their private and public lives." john Paul followed up with one of his strongest statements on what his church calls "family issues" at a twilight, open-air "Mass for the Christian Family." Police estimated 1.5 million people jammed the Pasco de Ia Castellana, one of Madrid's main arteries. -AP 
James Broderick, who portrayed the father in ABC­TV's "Family" series in the late 1970s, has died after a long bout with thyroid cancer. He was 55. Broderick died Monday at Yale-New Haven Hospita~ where he had been treated since Oct. 12, according to hospital spokesman Eugene Cooney. Born in Charlestown, N.H., Broderick appeared in such movies as "Alice's Restaurant" as Alice's husband, Ray, "Dog Day Afternoon" and "The Taking ofPelham One Two Three." His 25-year acting career also included roles in the Broadway plays "Johnny No Trump," "Let Me Hear You Smile," "A View From the Bridge" and "Maggie." He won a Roger Award for best performance in a Chicago production ofEdward Albee's "Who's Afraid of Virginia Wooli" In 1961, Broderick tourd 15 countries with Helen Hayes in a production ofTennessee Williams' "The Glass Menagerie." -AP 
Mostly breezy,cloudy,andcooltoday with 
a .(() percent dunce for ram by afternoon_ High in upper 40s to .around 50-Cloudy tonight .and Thursday, windy .and cold with a 50 pcccent chance for rain-Rain becoming mixed with snow late tonight .and Thursday. Low tonighht in low 10 mid 30s-High Tbunlday in mid to upper 30s. -AP 

The Observer  
It  Happy Birthday, Observer!! Design Editor........................... Kay Holland Design Assistant .......................... Allen Bell Layout Staff....................... Brigette Goulet Typesetter> ............................. Bruce Oakley AI Novas News Editor .................................. Vic Sciulli  
Copy Editor............................ Greg Swiercz ND Day Editor.................. Kathleen Hogan SMC Day Editor........................ Tim Petters Features Layout .................. Joe Musumeci Editorials Layout ...............Joe Musumeci Sports Copy Editor... Skip "Now 23" Des· jardin Typist ....................................... Mary Torchia Ad Design ....................................... Paul Sima Photographer ................................ Ed Carrol Guest Appearances .......... Classical Rabbit Margarc:t the Mouthful "Age of Consent" Ryan Sybil Dennis  
The Observer (USPS 596 920) 15  
publlstted Monday through Fnday and  
on home football Saturea ys except  
dunng exam and vacation penods The  
~1s published by the students  
of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col·  
lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased  
lor $25 per year ($15 per semester) by  
wrrtn19 The Obserler P 0 Box Q  
Notre Dame tnd1ana 46556  
The Oblefvef IS a member of The  
"-sac:laled Pres1 AU reproductiOn  
nghts are reserved  
Second class postage pa•d at Notre  
Dame. Indiana 46556  

MATH (MAJORS/MINORS/APTITUDE) 

You're Needed AllOver the World. 
Ask Peace Corps Morh volunteers why rheir degrees ore needed In rhe classrooms of rhe world's developing notions. Ask rhem why ingenuity ond flexibility ore os viral os adopting ro a different culture. They'll tell you rheir srudenrs know Marh is 
the key ro a solid future. And they'll tell you thor Peace Corps odds up ro o career expelience full of rewords and ac­complishments. Ask them why Peace Corps is the roughest job y01ill ever love. 
REGISTER NOW AT THE PLACEMENT OFFICE FOR INTERVIEWS TUES & WED, NOV. 16 & 17 

\ 



PEACE CORPS 
I set our for fall break in Los Angeles with high ex­pectations. Like most people, I thought of L.A. as the Glitter City. Southern California conjured up visions of laid-back, casual, prosperous success. 
The first thing that struck me about the city was the sheer enormity. Because of this sprawl, someone once commented that the only place you see people in L.A. is in their cars. I found this to be true. And the major purpose ofthose cars (transportation is secondary) is to reflect the personality of the owners. This was readily 
apparent. The traditional Mercedes Coupe that turns heads in other locales abounds to the point of red4n­dancy. I seldom saw a regular license plate; the per­sonalized, so called "vanity plates" predominated. Nearly every car, it seem.ed, bore the not-so-subtle statement, "Look at me; I've succeeded." 
Surrounding it all was a pervasive sense of prosperouscomercialism. Billboards were everywhere. New high-rises (mostly banks) are going up all over the downtown. Even the L.A. airport is undergoing vast renovation in anticipation of the countless hordes and billions ofdollars arriving for the Olympics in 1984. 
It seems every way I turned I was struck anew by someone demanding I buy, eat, join, visit, or sell some­thing. The ultimate commercial 0"
irony came about mid-we~k. while I was visiting Dis­neyland. Walt Disney said he\. ~ wanted no glimpse of tbe real world to be visible from inside Disneyland. After fif­teen minutes of enjoying one of the more popular rides known as "It's a Small World," I felt my faded hope in human nature beginning to be restored. Rounding the last corner, however, the il­lusion was shattered by the sight of foot-high lettering on the exit wall: "Wherever you go in the world, United World Bank is there for you." A reassurance I didn't need. 
A tour of Universal Studios seemed in a way to epitomize L.A. Asquad ofaspiring Robert Redford look­alikes gave us a schmaltzy tour ofthe facilities, allowing ample time to stock up on "I've Been to Hollywood" paraphenalia The only real knowledge I gained was what a large part deception plays in movlemaking. Through modern equipment, camera tricks and special effects, what we think we see in moyies is often a delu­sion. Movie makers rely largely on conning theatregoers into thinking what they want them to see. 
The greatest deception seemed to be the city itself. Los Angeles, unlike any other city I had visited before, seemed to lack a personality. All the glitter and glamour, I realized, were as much a facade as anything to be found in the backlot of Universal. 
The greatest irony seemed to lie with the inhabitants. I was surprised at the number of people in a city of 7 million that fell for the deception, lock, stock, and bar­rel. Nowhere was this more obvious then in Beverly Hills. As I took the inevitable tour of the celebrities homes, I marveled that such a big deal could be made of gawking purely for gawking sake. ,Beverly Hills stores, from Neiman-Marcus to Bullock's, seemed to thrive on the chicanery. In one boutique on Rodeo Drive, I saw a young girl proudly modeling-an expensive fashion that resembled a long, white sequined sweatshirt. In anoth­er window, I glanced at a gold-handled toothbrush. While I was there I learned that Beverly Hills grew out ofwhat used to be a bean farm. I left wondering ifit was an improvement. 


Near the end ofthe week, I found myself riding a city bus to downtown L.A. Seated near the front ofthe bus I saw a man talking rather loudly to no one in particular. His speech was rambling, largely incoherent, and was punctuated by obscenities. His voice rose and fell with 
the speed of the bus. His eyes were constantly moving, settling on nothing. A few people around him gave him a curious stare, shied away and said nothing. Two older men behind him sat chuckling at his ram­blings. 
Another day I saw a bum huddled for warmth beneath a palm tree near the boardwalk at Santa Monica It was a cool evening and a few raindrops had just started to fall. No one ap­proached him either. 
These two scenes dis­. turbed me. Here was the ;{)0»(_ 1J., .~A.~ side of the city that the 
'rQ br.ochures and billboards didn't tell about. Neither scene would ever rate a postcard. At the same time, I realized that all the sportscars, Gucci bags, and gold-handled toothbrushes in Southern California didn't stack up against episodes like these that were being ignored all over the city. After that realization, a glimpse at Ricardo Montalban's front door or johnny Carson's garbage cans seemed ir­relevant. 
On the way to San Diego, it took a full two hours to get far enough from L.A. to gain a real glimpse of the natural beauty of the region. The untouched land gave 
met an appreciation ofthe original vast potential ofthe area. And I wondered if a great deal of that potential hadn't been squandered. 
Several years ago I had the opportunity to visit North­ern California. I left San Francisco with the feeling that I had gained something in terms of historical and cul­tural value. When I left L.A., I felt I had spent, not gained, a vacation. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
The Observer Wednesday, November 3, 1982-page 3 
PeaceCorps 

Recruiter eyes future v~lunteers 
By GREGORY SWIERCZ 
StaffReporter 
Calling Notre Dame students 
"more idealistic and service­
oriented," a recruiter from the 
Peace Corps passed out literature 
yesterday and today in the Memorial 
Library, offering students overseas 
job opportunities. 
Clovia Sloan, a recruiter from the 
Chicago Peace Corps regional office, 
visited the campus to preview inter­
views scheduled for Nov. 16 and 17 
through the Placement Bureau. 
According to Sloan, Notre Dame students have better attitudes toward the Peace Corps than other campuses she has visited. 
"Ifpeople feel they have a sense of adventure and would be able to adapt to a different environment, then the Peace Corps is for them," Sloan said. 
She distributed Peace Corps ;;p­plications to Notre Dame students, a move Sloan said is required for seniors interested in entering the Peace Corps after graduation. 
"The application process is such that the interested persons must have their applications in our office nine months prior to entering the program," Sloan said. "This is why it is crucial that the (graduating) stu­dents get them in at this time." 
Peace Corps volunteers serve two years in a developing nation teach­ing their acquired skills to the people of the country. Volunteers receive a monthly allowance, an amount, according to Sloan, that "fits the actual wage ofthe task in the 


'Tylenol' suspect sought in Kentucky 
CHICAGO (AP)-A man with a history of mental disorders is being sought for questioning in the Tylenol murders, ami the police chief in a Kentucky town where the 35-year-old was last reported said yesterday that the trail is at least two days old. 

An all-points bulletin for Kevin). 'tasterson was issued :vtonday by the task force investigating the seven Chicago-area deaths caused by cyanide-spiked capsules of Extra­Strength Tylenol. The bulletin t(><:used attention on Murray, Ky., where authorities believed .\'laster­son was visiting friends. 
Hut Mmray Police ChicfJerry Lee said in a telephone interview that of­ficials "believe he's left the area. All indications are it was prior to yester· day." 
Lee said .\lasterson, who has not been charged with any crime or named in an arrest warrant, had previously "been spotted in this area." He added police have talked with "quite a few people," including one of Masterson's friends. 
Illinois Attorney General Tyrone Fahner, who is heading the task force, said Monday that "an inter­view with Masterson is essential" to the investigation ofthe seven deaths. in September. 
Masterson was described as 5­foot-1 0, 165 pounds with red hair and blue eyes. Authorities said he was driving a 1965 Volkswagen with Illinois license plates. 

particular country." The monthly al­lowance ranges from SIOO to S300 per month. In addition, a fund of S175 per month is set up and given to the volunteer when their two-year term expires. 
Since the Peace Corps began in 1960, over 82,000 Americans have served as volunteers. Originally a product of the John F. Kennedy ad­ministration, (under the direction of 
R. Sargent Shriver, Jr.), the Peace Corps has evolved into a program which had an operating budget of S105 million last year, a budget Sloan said doesn't seem to be af­
fected by the recent state of the economy. Sloan said University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh has cooperated with the Peace Corps and has played 
an  active  part  in  various  training  
programs  for  volunteers  in  past  
years.  

Other noted past Peace Corps volunteers include South Bend Mayor Roger 0. Parent, Director of Admissions John T. Goldrick and several graduate students in the Biology department. 
Sloan said the future of the Peace for technology in the world. 
"The Peace Corps has left countries such as Chile, Korea and Columbia simply because they don't need us anymore," she said. "This summer we will be entering Haiti for the first time. We have plans to ex­pand the number of volunteers in countries from 6,200 to 10,000, but it doesn't seem likely that this will happen in the next five years." 
The Peace Corps receives "about 12,000 applications" per year for nearly 3,000 openings, and it con­siders "about three applicants for every position." 
Sloan said while applicants need a 
skill  to  qualify  for  a  position,  
"leadership  qualities  are  also  
valuable.,  

While the average age of Peace Corps volunteers is 27, most ofthem are college graduates, Sloan said. "They're the people with little com­mittments, families, marriages, and other things to tie them down," she said. 
Interested students can pick up literature from the Placement Bureau or contact the Peace Corps recruiting office in Chicago. 

General Program an:l the Student Uri on present: 
Dr. Rett Ludwikowski Member of SolidarityLabor Urion on 

The Origirs Of Solidarity'' 
Thursday, Nov. 4 7:30pm GalvinAuditorium 





BRIDGET'S 

A climber identified as Edwin Drummond gives the thumbs up as hepauses on the 16thfloor ofSan Francisco's Embarcadero One Monday. Drummond carried a "Yes on 12"sign, referring to a bal­lot proposition calling for a nuclear weapons freeze. Drummond has scaled several other structures, including the Statue ofLiberty. (AP Photo) 
Interested in taking a class in Ballroom Dancing? 
Wednesday, November 3, will be the first lesson ofa five week ballroom dance class that will be will be held on Saint Mary's campus in the ReQina Hall lounge basement from 8:30p.m. to 10:00 p.m. This class will be tauQht by Ray Sexton from Indianapolis and the total cost is only $25 for five weeks. 
SIGN UP NOW IN THE SAINT MARY'S 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE PHONE: 284-4561 
This offer is limited to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students nnly. 


IIIUSEIIIITS 

B_l' bzvztatwn oj a Large Number of Prumznent Cztizens 

RICHARD HENZEL 
\\'ll.l. DU.l\'ER A 


E~TITI.ED 

~MARK TWAIN IN PERSON-~ 
P E R F 0 R M I N G A R T 3 S E R I E S 
Wednesday, November 3, 1982 8100 PM 0 1Laughlin Auditorium Saint Mary's College 
4 SPLENDID ORCHESTRA 
h l11 To\\ II, But H'as :'\ol Bt't'll Enga~t.·d. 


MAGNIFICENT FIREWORKS 
\\'t.'fl' In C oul ('lllpiallon For TIH~ Occa!\ion,· But Tht• ldt•<t Ha!\ Ht·t·n .'\handoned. 

4 GRAND TORCHLIGHT PROCESSION
~· 
To Expt'l·t \\'hatcvcr Tlu:~· Plea-.c. 

HAPPY HOUR 3-7  Mon &lues  Wed  Thurs  Fri  Sat $2.00 Pitchers or 25' Drafts Durin~ Pitt Game  
7-10 25' Beer  Wonderful Wino Nite 75' AGlass Free Raffle  Kamikaze Night 75' PRIZES  Midnite Specia! 11:30· 12:30 2forl HOUSEDRINKS  
All liquor 2forl  
Discounts on Beer Free Snacks  
..  

7:00 
DOORS OPfN AT __ !fCI.OCK. 
~ 

THE WISDOM WILl. BEGIN TO FLOW AT~ PM 


-------------------------------·---··-----------------·----· -­The Observer Wednesday, November 3, 1982-page 4 
'Monsignor' 

Arkie students appear infilm 
ting director) finally contacted us in free," Severino commented. "Just co
By DIANE DIRKERS 

January and asked the 10 of us if be there and watch a movie being
Senior StaffReporter 

we'd like to be in the scenes made was worth the long hours..Of supposed to be set in America, and course, the paycheck didn't burt."
Clad in tuxedos and escorted by 

as American soldiers in the war The highlight of the acting en­
"tall, movie star-type blondes," 10 

scene." deavor took place in the trenches of
fourth-year architecture students 

In total, the students took part in a field about an hour north of Rome.
arrived via limousine to the Univer­

five days of filming. The schedule "Since we were Americans, they
sity Park Mall Cinema showing of 

was so time-consuming that one wanted us to be right on the line and
Monsignor -a film in which the 

professor commented, "Do you in the trenches with Christopher
students appeared as extras while 

want to be actors or architects?," Reeve during the war scene. In be­studying in Rome. 
Bremhorst recalled. tween takes, it got pretty cold and
Complete with a red carpet and a 

"Randy (Bremhorst) was the Christopher pulled out a bottle of
Lincoln-Continental, student Alex 

star," said Severino. "He was chosen scotch and offered us to join him and
Severino billed the event as a 

to be the assistant to Father Flaherty warm up," described Severino.
"staged premier," since "it's actually 

(played by Christopher Reeve) at an 
been showing in South Bend for a "It was a real trip drinking scotch
Army mass during World War II."
week, but we missed it while on with Christopher Reeve in a trench
"I almost even got a line," Brem­
break." on a cold January night," Severino
horst added.
The movie, directed by Frank Per­reminisced.
The filming days were long ones,
ry of 20th Century Fox Productions, 

lasting from before dawn to well af­When asked if a career in acting
stars Christopher Reeve as an am­

ter dusk. "One day we went from 5 could lure him away from his future
bitious and financially wise army 

p.m. to I I p.m.," said Severino. The in architecture, Bremhorst simply
chaplain, who uses his charm and 


Architect students Tom Rajkovich and Matt Bell are working on a project now but will be taking time offsoon for the Beaux Arts Ball which will take placeNov. 12. (Photo by Ed Carroll) 
.

,···············•······························••···•·••············.
.
. 

I ca~t? 4 ~rt?ca~ ca11cl ~()()"It? (()tilt?~()~§ callcl ()()~§ §()UIIcl ()f 
hard work was well rewarded, replied with a smile, "1 think I'll staycleverness to advance his way though, as each of the students was out of the limelight -at least for athrough the post-war political n~irl ~<;() ~ rl~v "I wrmlrl h-.vp rlnnt"' it little while."
heirarchy ofthe Vatican. 
Severino first became aware ofthe filming in September, a month after the architecture group had arrived 
... Hesburgh

in Italy, and asked the casting (1irec­tor if there was any need for American extras. "Cineri (the cas-continuedfrom page 1 tinguishing the human race. 
You Can· Buy Classified Ads 
at the St. Mary's 

ObserYer-

Office 
located in Regina South Basement Hours Sun ·Thurs 1 . 4pm 

ph 284-5365 

EARN OVER $1000 A MONTH AND OPEN THE DOOR TO ATOP ENGINEERING FUTURE· 
How many corporations would be willing to pay you over$ 1ooo a month during your junior and senior years just so you'd join the company after graduation? Under a special Navy program we're doing just that. It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate-College Program. And under it, you'll not only get great pay during your junior and senior vears, but after graduation you'll receive a year of valuable graduate-level training that is not available from any other employer. 
If you are a junior or senior majoring in math, engineering or physical sciences, find out more today. And let your career pay off while still in college. 
For more information. call theNa val Management Programs Office 
at: 1-800-382-9782 or collect 317-269-6197 

Representatives on campus at Placement Office 9 &10 Nov. Call for Appointment and Interview 
that Hesburgh probably will take a position. 
Neiman had much to say about Schell's book: "The book has mobilized a lot of people. It states a position that won't be to everybody's liking, but at the very least, it's gotten people to think." 
"There is a clear resistance to thinking about this (issue)," Neiman said. "It's not a pleasant thought. So far we have been satisfied with the vague rhetoric of politicians. The Schell book brings these issues home." 
Neiman added that people should spend more time thinking about the issue. He said people get wrapped up in grades, their love lives, stocks and bonds, and perhaps, spend five minutes a day, maybe even a week, thinking about the nuclear issue ­one that may someday make these other things irrelevant by ex-
The book raises more questions than it answers," Neiman added. "It's a good place to start, but I don't think it's a good place to end. The purpose ofthe book is served only if people go on from there." 
The book was introduced as a three-part supplement in The New Yorker. Subsequently, it was published into a best-seller in April I982. During the summer, a com­mittee within the College ofArts and Letters decided to form the program · following the publishing of the publication and Hesburgh's involve­ment in the nuclear issue. 
Schell's book is used in the Sopho­more Core course, and all core course students are required to at­tend the program. But the con­terence is open to anyone. and according to Neiman, "the questions arc so large that people who have not read the book will be able to relate." 

The Observer Wednesday, November 3, 1982-page 5 
S.O.S. Director 



Sex assaults onthe rise: Silvern1an 
By MOLLY KINNUCAN 
.\"eu·s .~tajf 
The myth that rape is an act of sexual fulfillment rather than aggres­sion and violence was one ofseveral misconceptions dispelled by the Director of the Sex Offense Staff of South Bend last evening in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. 
Marsha Silverman's presentation concentrated on changing the public's perception of rape. Con­trarv to common belief, over one­hair' of all rapes occur in the home and are committed by . acquain­tances of the victim. Nearly all cases of rape are premeditated, although a specific victim is not always chosen. 
A rape occurs once every six minutes in the United States, accord­ing 10 Silverman. Sexual assault is also the fastest growing crime in America. According to Silvt'fman. "only .05 percent of the sex often-. tiers ever spend any time in prison." This percentage results from tht· rdativdy small number of victims reporting assaults. 
"Rapists usually don't return to the same victim." according to Slver­man. The need to report the occa­sion of rape is compounded by the fact that the assaulter tends to repeat the offense, each time destroying the lite of another innocent victim. 
A victim's "trust in people is com­pletely gone" as well is the "trust in her own judgement." 
In Order to provide the informa­tion necessary to avoid rape or any other sexual offense. and to offer support in the case ofa rape already having occurred, the S.O.S has es­tablished a volunteer training branch. Eight ses~ions arc designed to inform these volunteers about the legal, mt:dical. and criminal aspects of sexual oftt:nse. A 2-t-hour hot line for sexual assault of victims is also available. 
Silvc:rnun empha~ized that there is tine-line between what is and what is not a sexual offense. "\Ve're talking ahum rape -we have to get at the subtkties here." 
"The Legal Aspects of Rape" will be tile topic of tonight's program which will be held in Hayes-Healey. Sgt. Bonnie Werntz of the South Bend Police Department and Notre Dame Security Officer Anne Schel­lingt:r will be speaking. A self­defenst: clinic will be held in the gymna~tics room in the Rockne Memorial huilding tomorrow eve­ning. 

Careerdays 



Liberalarts education stressed 

By PAM RICHARDSON 
News Staff 
Agraduate ofSaint Mary's College 

discussed how a liberal arts educa­
tion at a women's college provided 
her with the broad knowledge that 
helped her succeed in the business 
world last evening in the Stapleton 
lounge at Saint Mary's. 
Barbara Hamel, a 1979 graduate with a B.B.A. in finance and a bac­helor's degree in history was the first speaker in the College to Career Days '82' program for students in­terested in a liberal arts career. Hamel is currently a financial ad­viser with the Continental Illionis National Bank and Trust Company. 
After a day oftalking to classes and attending luncheons, Hamel ended her visit with an informal discussion on her post-graduate year~ in Chicago, and the influence Sat11t' Mary's had on her career. 
When asked ifthe classes she took at Saint Mary's had any correlation to her job, Hamel described them as "ends to the means." She believed that the business courses were "tools" for her job and gave her a "working knowledge of what is going on in the business world." 
Hamel stcssed the importance ofa liberal arts education in the work field today. She claimed that "once you're out, you have to have a broad approach and you must be abk to conver_.,e about interesting things." She commented that about 60 per­cent of her peers do not have busi­ness degrees; many of them arc government, Englbh and history majors. 'This makes for a rounded person. 
When asked how the Notre Dame/Saint :vtary's community has prepared ht·r for her job with Con­
...Elections 

continuedfrom paxe 1 
Liht-ral Democratic Lt. Gov..\lario Cuomo scored a narrow victon· over conservative, supply-side Republican businessman lewis l.chrman in :\'ew York's guber­natorial ract:. 
Bill Clinton also won back his po..,ition by dekating Gov. Frank White, who ousted him from the Arkansa_., governor's chair in one of the: btggc:_.,t surprises of the 1980 election. 
\ 
Democrats regained control of 
tht: TeJ>.~l' gm·crnorship as Attorney (;c:nual \lark \\'httc unseated (;ov. Bill< lc:mc:nt..,. the tlrst Republican to hold the oftkc since Rc:construc­ti(ltl 
tinental, Hamel commented that into an environment where there while she was here she "established are so many men, but "you adapt to a close repoire with a lot of people that because you aquire enough self­and there is still that kind of bond at confidence here at Saint Mary's. Continental." She also noted that the In her conclusion, Hamel stated 
bank is a "community atmosphere that Saint Mary's has a "good reputa­but in a different way." tion around the Chicago area and 
Hamel pointed out the pros of people are becoming more familiar coming from an all women's college. with it as each graduating class goes She admits that it is different to go out into the business world." 
Special Student Rates Available For Pitt Game 
These Economy Fares are Touring Rates, subject to change without notice and non-discountable. There are no minimum day and advance rese..Vation requi~ll!!!!ents, but 
restrictions on when and where cars must be returned. Gas is not 
included. Call Hertz for details. 

1705 So. Bend Ave. 
277-4950 
OPEN

WE 4pm DAILY 
DELIVER 

Sun til11 :30pm to Notre Dame ri & Sat til12:30p &St. Mary's Closed Monday 

DINE IN or CARRY OUT ENJOY OUR FINE PIZ2A, ITALIAN SANDWICHES PASTA 
Free Liter "RC" $7 Delivery Order 
... 
' 

·cAIIIIfOu~ THE FAMILY PIZZERIA DEI.I~E~Y 
Campers huddle inside a makeshift tent in theplaza outsideSan Francisco's City Hall. Tent cities called "Reagan Ranches" sprung up in almost 30 cities with the demonstrators hoping to swayyes­terday's voters with reminders ofthe Depression. ( AP Photo) 



College Night 

Date: Thursday. November 4 3 p.m. to 9 p.m. 

Precision Haircut & Style-Only $7.50 
Terrific campus cuts at super savings with student I.D. Free gifts & refreshments. 


R9GIS HAIRSTYUSTS 
University Park Mall 271-1118 







Editorials 
Wednesday, November 3, 1982-page 6 
Insights outward 
Break came at the perfect time this year for this Domer. The South Bend weather had just made its annual decision to turn mean, I had missed some classes due to the onslaught of midsemester fatigue, and I was suffering a fit of depression from advancing Notre Dame shock syndrome. During the last week prior to 
Robert lloyd Snyder 
lhen Mid-Week 

break, the only thing that really mattered to me was tanking up the car with gas, grabbing a road map and my girlfriend's luggage, and the two of us heading in a meandering line for Texas and home. 
For me, the best place for serious thought and pondering is behind the wheel of an automobile which is travelling at a high velocity, with extremely amplified music providing a backbeat. I was serenely grateful for the opportunity to sort out some random thoughts that have been cluttering my mind since the beginning of the school year; in es­sence, my main activity while I was physically absent from Notre Dame was the considera­tion ofall the items that I could not weigh and judge while I was at Notre Dame. 
I thought about my commitment to my parents in my education and academic effort; I compared the campus environment with an­other university that I became acquainted with over break; I examined my deportment here at Notre Dame with my fellow class-· mates, my dorm mates, my girl friend, and my closest cohorts. 
What triggered all of these pensive sessions was a series ofeditorials and letters which ap­peared in The Observer during the two weeks previous to break concerning the basic nature of the Notre Dame student body. 
Several of the articles truly disturbed me. While I realize that many of the letters which criticized the "closedmindedness" of the Notre Dame student body were possibly out­bursts of pent up frustration, a few of these letters were as righteous and closedminded as the very system which they attacked. On the other hand, the minority who took an oppos­ing stance and argued the benefits of Notre Dame life failed to acknowledge the serious social and institutional problems at Notre Dame. 
I am not sure that I am qualified to offer advice to anyone on the subject. Alii can real­ly express is personal opinion as it relates to each side. 
To those people who are truly unhappy at Notre Dame, who write off the Notre Dame student body as being wholly composed of elitist preps who suffer from terminal al­coholism and genetically inbred sexual neuroses -I maintain that you have been expecting Notre Dame to solve your social problems rather than attempting to improve your social situation yourself. Only you can seek out those individuals with whom you share a common ground: they will not automatically come to you. Notre Dame is on­ly a contributing factor. 
To those individuals who actively con­tribute to the stereotype of Notre Dame as being a "closedminded" and anti-intellectual society through ridicule ofdifferent or artistic people, or through "clique" social behavior which shames the exclusiveness oflvy League Greeks, I almost wish you would just go away. 
Perhaps to be a bit constructive, I would advise tl_lat you open your closed little minds and look at the real world around Notre Dame. You are not the norm to which the world should conform, but merely a segment ofAmerican student acadamia which perhaps defies the whole purpose of "education." Ex­amine your statements concerning others who are unlike you and ask yourself if these statements are made out of ignorance or fear. Instead of anonymous slander, take respon­
sibility for your actions. Most of all, can we reconcile Catholicism with a life based on mindless prejudices and elitism? 
Finally, to those of us who have "semi­sorted out" the difficulties and daily problems of this place, and are fairly happy with both yourselves and your situation at Notre Dame -don't stop the process ofbettering yourself. Stagnation in life in any respect can lead to regression. Continue to be sensitive to others, to further your intellect, to become involved in campus activities. You have solved the riddle ofhappiness at Notre Dame, the answer to which must start with being happy with oneself. 



P.O. Box Q 

our personal responsibility alone can lead to believe totally untrue to speak of Mary Cun­that I'm sure many could relate to the senti­a valid sentence that says "this is true" from ningham as a "former scandalmate" to Mr. ment.
The student 
case to case. Truth is not an abstraction. It is Agee, or to refer to her as "appearing as a 
Secondly, the piece was a refreshing (and

always concrete case work and therefore down" at his side. Both references, as well as 
DearEditor, long overdue) departure from the usual fare
alive. others, in his Inside Tuesday column were 
Far be it from me to sneer at success. Un­Observer columnists choose to write about.
"Let the dead bury their dead" (Matthew .cheap shots and far apart from the truth. 
less in some way or other we succeed in Editorials on such issues as parietals, kegs,
8:24) is said of burials witti shovels. But ob­Cordially,what we are doing, we are wasting our time, women's rights, and other such stories can
solete or "dead" ideas need burial by means Msgr.johnj. Egan
and that is the unforgivable sin. be run into the ground by writers who, day
of our alive insight into that truth which 
What are you doing? You say you have to after day, week after week, and, I might add,
made them alive, and into the reason that earn a bachelor's degree. And what is that? At year after year, harp on the same angles,
made them obsolete. Ifyou should ever have 

Original thought
worst it is a piece ofpaper telling the world provide no new solutions and, inevitably,
to say "my old God is dead," you might find that you spent four years on some campus. wind up never being read.
that he died because you yourself mistaken-.. DearEditor:At best it is a certificate that you have really 
ly called him God. As a mail subscriber to The Observer, J A student newspaper, or any newspaper,earned the degree because you have learned Learn to study. Study is one of the most have had ample opportunity to observe the must report the news first. However it alsohow to study. 
intensely religious undertaking of man. product you publish each weekday. I must must reflect the tone and temperment oftheI say study, not cram. To study means to In college you study for perfectly respect­say that one of the most enjoyable pieces I audience it serves. Oakley's piece, a timelessask the pertinent questions properly. It 
able secular reasons. You want to become a have read this year was Bruce Oakley's story of adolescence, loneliness and under­means to know where to look for the 
thorough professional. However, profes­Inside column entitled "Every mother's son" standing love, painted a picture of growinganswers so far given, and to check the sionalism and growth toward personal (Oct. 15, 1982). up -something to which college studentsvalidity of those answers, so as to be able to 
maturity are two different things. They are Enjoyable for two reasons: First, it was can relate and mail subscribers can remem­find your own, remembering that none ofus 
not antagonistic. Usually they go hand in well-written and obviously a piece from ber fondly (and, perhaps, relate to as well).
is infallible. 
hand. And nobody is ever mature enough, Oakley's heart. I believe people want to read Please, let's have more Oakley and moreEvery true answer demands to be checked not even at my own age of 88. We hope to more perscnality in journalists. People, after of the same, and less harping on issues thatand to be reformulated, today or tomorrow. 
see the enormity of the gap when, being all, relate best to their own kind. And while remain unchanged no matter which writer isChecking is always an act of one's personal 
favored by a blessed death, we die into and many readers most likely have never faced standing on the old wooden soapbox.responsibility. 
"come to rest in" the unspeakable maturity the actual situation Oakley wrote about, it Frank LaGrottaIn Latin studiosus is he who is fully ded­ofGod. 
was so beautifully conveyed in his piece, Class of1980
icated to the pursuit ofthe truth. And truth is 
Let us put down this matter of studying no dead formula. It is alive by way of being 
and maturing in terms ofthe resulting paper an inescapable challenge met in your aware­
record. You want to earn a bachelor's de­ness ofyour own self. 
gree. You want to be certified as one who Augustine wrote: "If there is anything 
has learned to study and henceforth be his more excellent (than the truth) then God is 
own teacher, with the help of everythingjust that, but if not, God is the truth itself' 
that is available in print. Go to it! And good(de libero arbitrio Il,xv,39 ). 
luck to you! (It took me a long time to dis­How do you learn to study? By your per­
cover that what I lightly used to call luck of­sistence in asking just exactly waht the 
ten looks exactly like what the old-fashioned answers found by others and by yourself 
would quite properly call Grace, if theyreally mean. This persistence is the religious 
could refrain from postulating some gra­faith of the student. -If you call this lan­
cious donor.) guage mawkish, then simply translate it into 
Fritz Marti 

more sober statements. Such quite secular 
South Bend 

terms may prove to be more religious than sentimental traditional jargon. How do you learn to study? Simply ask 
Cheap shot whether the book in hand or your teacher in the classroom is the best that today can help DearEditor, you in your search. Do not throw away the It may be quite acceptable for Mr. Ver book nor ignore the teacher without giving Berkmoes to question the business tactics them a conscientious hearing. Yet do not and procedures used by Mr. Agee during the take either as the last word. Although you Bendix-Marietta struggle. However, it is are a beginner, the responsibility is yours. quite another thing, and I would submit, a And although we humans are not infallible, most uncharitable act, and as a friend, J 

·.~Ihe_Dbserver=-c_--==-Editorial Board Department Managet:s 
'J/,,· O!Jfat'l'l' i~ an indepenJen! new,p.lpt-r puhl"hed by the >tudent~ of the 
Editor-in-Chief......................... ... Michael Monk Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello l 'nl\t'r'''Y of Notre D.1me du Ll<" .1nd S.1int M.lf}'\ Collc.t:c. It does r.ot ntH'".Ifd}· Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller .............................................Eric Schulz rdletl the poll<ll''i of the J.dm•ni,tr.ltiOII \lf either lllStitut1on. The nt·~ovs" report Executive News Editor................Dave Dziedzic Advertising Manager.......................Chri~ Owen t·,J J' .ururatel}· and .1~ ohlclll\d}· ..-po,SI!->le. Ed1tonals represent the op1n1on of .\MC Executit•e Editor..... ......Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager..................Maura \lurph\ .1 rn.qonty of the l'd1tonal BoHd Co.nmcnt.trll''. opinions and letters arc the news .\jJOrts Editor ................................... Chris Needles Circulation Manager ..........................Ray lnglin of tht'lf authors. ( olumn spa,c '' avad.1hk to .dl •nemhcr, ot the <Ommun1ty. and Editorials Editor............. ...Paul McGinn Systems Manager...... .. .... Bruce Oakln the frce expre,siOn oi varymg opin10ns on ..;ampu:., through letter:., 10 entounged. Features Editor............ .......Tari Brown Photo Etlitc1r ... ...Rachel Blount 
Founded November 3, 1966

P_O.ijox Q. Nolre Damt·, IN -t(l556 (2 19) H9·'B05 
........................••.•...................................................( 



~~S tl0 W C ~~iiiiiiiSiiiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiWiieiidniiesdiiiayiii,
Niiioviiiemiiibeiiir3ii,19ii82iiiiiipiiiage-7 

Once upon a time ... 
I.Jelooked longingly into the maiden's eyes. He knew women m the village! .l .lhe had found his true love at last. Author's Note: No. 
Taking her by the hand, the prince led her out to his Editor's Note: Well, then, there must haue been silver grey steed. It was adorned with gold armor and others that he knew better and with whom he hades­tassles of the finest silk. A collection offine jewels, tablishedfriendly relationships? rubies, emeralds, diamonds and pearls were grouped Author's Note: I suppose ... together to form the crest of the royal family. Editor's Note: The mostyourprince andprincess 
The prince gently lifted his newly-found princess up ever communicate is to comment on the loueliness of onto the feather-cushioned saddle. Seating himself be­the day or to say that they havefound their own true hind her, they rode off together into the topaz sunset love. where they lived happily ever after. Author's Note: Yes . .. 
Editor's Note: I understand whatyou areattempting to do, but don'tyou realize how misleading your
Tari Brown 
stories are? They describe a nonexistent life in today's society.justlook at the divorce rate. Those people sure feat ures didn't livehappilyeverafter. Take the crimestatistics. 
1 

-----------------------When people are living in fear oftheir lives, they are 
not living happily.
Author's Note: Like all couples in love, they enjoyed Author'sNote: Yes, I agree ... 
their lives together: thepeace and tranquility that Editor's Note: Good. That is a good enough place to comes ofa loving relationship in which two people 
start. 

share all oftheirdreams and hopes and give to each Author'sNote: To start what? 
other all that theypossess. 
Editor's Note: To use my editorialprerogative. As I Editor's Note: What about sorrows and burdens? 
said before,yourstory is misleading. Because we are a Did they share all oftheir sorrows and burdens? 
newspaper, we have a duty to the public to print the Author's Note: They had a quiet lifestyle in which facts, to tell them the way things are, notfantasize they rode horses through silent woods andfeasted on about the way we wish things to be. Our duty requiresfine wines and rare beasts. 
that we deal with reality.
Editor's Note: Where is this silence? And where did theyfind.the money to always be eating and drinking Author's Note: I understand that. in suchfancy style? Editor's Note: Very good. We are makingprogress. 
Given these little details, it would seem plausible,Author's Note: They had many children. Each of don'tyou think, that anypieceI printshould contain thempossessedtalents rangingfrom music to art; one facts, notfantasy. True or not? 
was a concertpianist, another a flautist thatplayed Author's Note: True. 
like a lark at early morning. 
Editor's Note: We agree again. Marvelous. Would Editor's Note: Weren't any ofthem justplain you then agree to this proposition?
klutzes? 
Author's Note: Let me hear it, please. 
Author'sNote: The princeandprincess's life together Editor's Note: The reality in which today's society wasfilled withjoy and happiness. Never did a day operates is notdictated by the axiom, "And they lived dawn when they weren't thankfulfor the beautyofthe happily ever after." 
day and glory ofliving. 
Author'sNote: One could say that. 
Editor's Note: Hold it! 
Editor's Note: I did. My point is thatyourstory does Author's Note: What do you want? 
not in any way reflect the facts ofthe situation to Editor's Note: Didn'tthey ever fight? Didn'tthey ever whichyou have seen fit to respond. Romance in the disagree? Didn'tanything evergo wrong? 
world oftoday does not rely upon "happily ever af­Author's Note: No. 
ters." It looks to the power ofcommunication and the Editor's Note: No two people can live together for virtue ofpatience to find its strength. The arguments 
any length oftime withoutfinding somepoint ofdis­
ofmarried men and women who have decided to end 
agreement. 
their misery by divorcing themselves ofeach other are Author's Note: They did. 
often predicated on the misleadingfact that they en­tered into them marital agreement believing that a Editor's Note: What about when their children were "happily ever after" was owed them. Statistics longsmall? Didn't they worry when they came in from the ago shattered the fantastical beliefin "happily ever af­cold with a sniffle in their nose and cough in their ters,"yetyou insist on encouraging such naivete. 
chest? Didn't they grab them andpull them to their Author's Note: IfI may interject . .. 
side, take them to their beds and wrap them in the thickest blankets? Didn't they ever worry that they Editor's Note: Certainly. It isyourcolumn. might get pneumonia or something even worse? Author's Note: Thank you. I was beginning to won­
Author's Note: I . . ./ ... der. I would like topoint out onesmall detail thatyou 
Editor's Note: Didn't the prince ever wonder ifhe seem to haveforgotten. made the right decision, finding a beautifulpeasant Editor's Note: And what would that be? girl by chance and marrying because hefell im­Author's Note: I am writing a fairy tale. mediately in love with her? Didn'theeverquestion his Editor's Note: Yes, a fairy tale. That's what I have choice? There must have been other more beautiful been saying all along. It isdefinite~v afai7)• tale. 

Ttivia Quiz 54 
T ife goes on, I think. And so does "Give Peace a Chance" -Hot Choc­ofsome groups, some obscure, some Lhe trivia quiz. olate (then known as the Hot Choc­not. These are not necessarily their 
Ifyou don't remember, and I have olate Band) current, or most famous, lineups, no reason to expect otherwise, the 5. The very, very obscure but merely some configuration at last one before break was about 20-year-old who recorded "King of some time. Identify the groups. recbrding acts who recorded for Fuh" -Brute Force l. Robert Antoni, Todd Rwtdgren, Apple Records. With the questions 6. George Harrison's first dis­Carson van Osten, Thorn Mooney paraphrased, here are the answers: covery for Apple Records, with a 2. Garth Hudson, Richard Manuel, 
frustrating career, both for Apple Levon Helm, Rick Danko, Jaime and Warner Brothers-Jackie Robertson
Tim Neely 
Lomax 3. Andy McCluskey, Paul 7.. Responsible for the last 45 Humphreys released on Apple and not recorded 4. Clint Warwick, Graeme Edge,rock trivia by any ofthe four Beatles -Yoko Denny Laine, Mike Pinder, Ray Ono Thomas
1. The young female singer who 8. Only group (other than our 5. Doug Ingle, Ron Bushy, .Erik
had the first non-Beatles hit for the heroes) to achieve international Brann, Lee Dormanlabel -Mary Hopkin (with "Those success -Badfinger 6. Doug Fieger, Berton Averre,Were the Days") 9. The almost-phantom singer Bruce Gary, Prescott Niles
2. The onlyestablished act ever to who recorded "We're On Our Way" 7. Gary Richrath, Neal Doughty, 
record for Apple -The ModernJazz in 1972 for Apple -Chris Hodge Alan Gratzer, Gregg Philbin, Kevin Quartet 
10. Little success until leaving Cronin 
3. 
Discovered by Peter Asher, did Apple, except for a guest appearance 8. Stevie Winwood, Chris Wood, one Apple LP, then left for greener on a Beatles' record -Billy Preston Jim Capaldi, Dave Mason pastures at Warner Brothers (along A very difficult quiz, I think you'll 9. Curtis Williams, Dexter Tisby, with Asher)-James Taylor concur. Now on to new business -Cleveland Duncan, Bruce Tate 

4. 
They also left Apple for other or, actually, a little bit ofold and a 10. Felix Cavaliere, Eddie places after recording a version of little bit ofnew. Here are the lineups Briganti, Dino DaneIIi, Gene Cornish 



B
ad Company is back with their first album in three years. Rough Diamonds is their follow-up to the mildly-successful Desolation Angels. OnAngels they had the anthem of'79 with "Rock and Roll Fantasy." Rough Diamonds is just as good ifnot supe· rior to its predecessor, except that it has no anthem single in the mold of"Bad Company," "Can't Get Enough," and "Good Lovin' Gone Bad". 
Two cuts, "Untie the Knot" and "Electric Land" are getting some local airplay, but whether it is enough to bring this album to wide public acclaim remains to be seen. 


Ed Konrady 
record review 

Bad Company started out in the mid-seventies as a hard-rock band with boogie and blues undertones. Vocalist and guitarist Paul Rodgers and drummer Simon Kirke came from the rock group Free, a British heavy blues band that rode to fame on the tense cutting edge of Rodgers and Kirke, a sound that was simple in conception but was remarkable in its inherently dramatic execution, helping Free to rise above much ofthe over-playing sixties rock competi­tion. 
Bassist Boz Burrell came from King Crimson where he replaced the original bassist, Greg Lake (who went on to Emerson, Lake and Palmer). King Crimson was run by Robert Fripp, and the lack ofin­put matched by the criticism ofhis replacing the critic-favorite Lake led him to Bad Company. 
Lead guitarist Mick Ralphs came from Mott the Hoople, where Ralphs had a voice in the group but was overshadowed by leader Ian Hunter. The influence Ralphs had was not evident until his leaving and the subsequent Mott albums, which drove the group into dis­solution, leaving Hunter free to follow a solo career. 
Unfortunately for the band, Bad Company was expected to be a new and improved version of Free. The group could not, ofcourse, live up to this expectation and have been generally abused by critics. 
RoughDiamonds starts out very well with "Electric Land", which features the howling ofRodgers' guitar and the coyote cry ofRalphs. The song opens in a piano rhythm by an unknown musician. It is strange that he or she isn't listed on the album liner since the piano and keyboards just about steal the show. This added layer really brings out the material presented. 
Rodgers' guitar playing on form, especially in the second song, "Untie the Knot". This song has been gathering some local attention and deservedly so. It opens with a great piano melody and flies into two furious guitar solos. Kirke's drums are incredibly powerful, with Boz Burrell's bass blending in well without beingoverpowering. It is a great piece ofboogie/blues/rock. 
"Kickdown" ends the first side, with Rodgers taking over the lead guitar lines and adding some soft deft touches to the vocals by ec· hoing guitar licks. 
The second side opens with "Ballad of the Band", a nice boogie number written by Burrell, that features some sharp Chuck Berry licks by Rodgers and good horn work. 
"Cross Country Boy" and more Ralphs lead guitar work follow. The guitar is more than adequate, but the piano steals the show, especially in a break with Ralphs guitar and Collins' horns. 
Asloppy song, "Old Mexico", features some nice bass work by Burrell, but it isn't enough to make this song interesting. Their is a fine line between defining a musical genre and wallowing in it. It is to Bad Company's credit that they tip toe over the line only once or twice on this album. 
"Downhill Ryder" features a simple but effective solo on guitar by Ralphs, and is saved from the folly of"Old Mexico" by a solid 'rhythm section performance. .: 
The album ends with "Racetrack", and it ends on a l)igh note. There is great drum work by Kirke, nice solid bass by Burrell, very well done keyboard work by some great unknown, and the usual RaJphs/Rodgers awesome job. 
All in all, the album is a solid job in the art ofmastering the genre of boogie/blues/rock, and certainly does say more about Bad Com­pany as a group than their past Top 40 singles. There are a few weak spotson the album, but the overall quality ofthe songs overcome it. It took them three years, and although it wasn't worth the wait, it is 
l

worth the price. 
1 

r 
---------.-------­

~--­



~j)()1itS=jEJ==~==J=·E3~~~s========~====================W==ed=n=e=sd=ay=,=N=o=ve=m=b=e=r=3,=1=9=H2===p=a=ge==8 
lh /be ( JIJSt'tTer and/'he .-tssudtllt'd /'res~ 
Bob Lillis who piloted the llouswn Astros on an imerim 
basis after Bill \'irdon was tired. was named manager of the NatiOJul 
League hall club yesterday. Lillis, who replaced Virdon on Aug. I 0 
and led the As a 28-23 record t.luring he rest of the season. sait.l he 
wasn't sure he would pursue the permanent job. "I wasn't sure how 
I'd wear it." Lillis said. "I didn't know how the players would 
respond. But they have given a very positive response." He has been 
with the Astros organization since the franchise was formed in 1961. 
as a player, scout. instructor and coach. -Associated Press 
john McNamara has been named manager of the California Angels, the club announced yesterday. McNamara, who previously has managed Oakland, San Diego and Cincinnati, came to terms with club Vice President E.J "Buzzie" Bavasi over the weekend by telephone ant.! the veteran skipper will visit next week for the official signing: Terms ofthe agreement were not announced. McNamara succeeeds Gene Mauch who, the club said, refused a 
proffered contract after guiding the team to the West Division title in the American League last season. -AssociatedPress 
Pete Rosesigned a one-year contract with the Philadelphia Phillies yesterday. Rose, who predicted that he would break Ty Cobb's all-time career hit record after the 1984 All-Star Game, said that if it was up to him, he would continue to play every game. But in announcing that the tlrst baseman would return next season, Phillies President Bill Giles said, "We would like Pete to rest at times during the hot summer months. We would like him not to play in second games of doubleheaders." Rose will be 42 shortly after the start of the 1983 season. Rose's new contract reportedly is worth $1.2 mil­lion with a bonus in excess of $100,000 if he plays in 130 games or more. His contract is hasd upon an agreement reached in April and lasting through 1986. -AssociatedPress 
Aerobic dancing workouts will resume with the second session, beginning this week and lasting until December I 5. Students can attend the Monday and Wednesday sessions, from 4 to 4:30p.m.; a $3.00 fee will he charged. Faculty and staff sessions will he held from 5:15 to 5:45 on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and a $12.00 fee will be charged. 
The ND-SMC Women's CrewClub will discuss winter training at a mandatory meeting tonight, scheduled for 8 p.m. at LaFortune. -The Observer 
INTERHALL REVIEW 
MEN'S FOOTBALL 
Playoffs Will beg1o next week and w1ll cons1st of tour teams. the three diVISIOnal champiOns and one Wild card team Schedules Will be published when the patnngs are determined When they are published, please remember that the team hsted on the bottom must wear wh1te jerseys. 
Also. Carroll Hall team members are rem1nded to return all football equ1pment to Gate 9 of the stad1um tomorrow from 6:30 to 7 p m. All other teams are adv1sed to watch nottces in their respecttve halls for eqwpment return. 
WOMEN'S FOOTBALL 
Playoffs begin tomorrow night with the semi­finals; the winners will meet Sunday n1ght for the championship. All games w111 be played on Car­11erF1eld 
Tomorrow's Games Breen-Ph1llips vs Pasquenlla East. 6:30pm. Pasquenlla West vs Farley, 7:30p.m 
Sunday's Game W1nners of Thursday's ~ames meet for the champ1onsh1p at 7:30p.m 
MEN'S SOCCER Standings (AaofNov.l) 
DIVISION I 
1) Dillon I (5-0) 2) Alumni (3-2) 
3) Flanner ·A (3·2) 4) Off-Campus (3·2) 5) Keenan (1·4) 
6) Grace II (0·5) 
DIVISION II 1) Morrissey (6·0) 2) Stanford (5-1) 
3) St. Ed s (4·2) 4) Carroll (3-3) 
5) Dillon II (2·4) 
6) Flanner B (1·5) 
7) Holy Cross (0·6) 

Sportsboard 
DIVISION Ill 

1) Grace I (5-1) 2) Howard (4-1) 3) Cavanaugh (3-2) 4) Zahm 13-3) 5) Sonn (3-3) 6) F1sher (1-5) 7) Pangborn (1·5) 
"DOMER SIX-MILE RUN" 

A SIX-mile run, sponsored by the Office of Non­
VarSity AthletiCS. Will be held th1s Saturday. 
November 6, beg1nnmg at 10 a.rn. The course 
wrll be entirely on the Notre Dame campus, utrhz­
lng the golf course, the lakes and the campus 
roads. The race Will beg1n and end at the Untver­
SIIY Garage (the old Credit Umon building) 
Entnes must be turned 1n to the NVA off1ce by 
tomorrow at 5 p.m. Anyone Interested may call 
the off1ce at 239-6100 or fill out the entry blank in 
Thursday·s Observer to reg1ster 
Team entnes are encouraged, ftve-person 
teams whose ttmes Will be scored cross country 
style Teams can be formed by dorms (male or 
female), clubs or departments 
Six categories will be formed accordmg to sex 
and undergraduate, graduate or tacultjl'ostaff 
status. 
Runners should be at the start1ng area by 9:45 
Saturday mormng. 
RACQUETBALL PAIRINGS Matcnes should be played Within a week's t1me All those not listed have byes 1n the ftrst round 
Singles Tom Berens (1579) v. Peter Bogaard (1483) Cathy Schafer (2852) v Kev1n H1ckey (1004) M1ke Vanderbeck (277-2163) v. Tom Schneider (8728) 
Rob Ebert (8432) v. Dave Pangraze (8433) 
Grad/Faculty 

R1ck Gibson (233-9703) v. Joseph Scan (272­8360) Gary Malecha (232-3181) v Jeff Hoover (288­
9347) 
SQUASH TOURNAMENT 

Deadline for reg1stration for the NVA squash tournament is November 10 Call 239-61 00 or stop by C-2 of the ACC to s1gn up 
ICE HOCKEY 
Oeadlme for regtslrallon for tnterhall tee hockey IS Wednesday, November 10 Team captams should subm1t rosters to the 1nterhall offtce. ACC C-2 Rosters must have a mtmmum of 20 players and team members must represent the same hall Pta yers must furntsh skates. sticks. helmets and mouthpieces Also. a team entry fee of $30 Will be charged to help pay of11c1als Proof of msurance must be showm by each player 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Deadline for men s basketball s1gnups IS 
November 10 Teams may be selected 1n any ­
way a hall chooses, and rosters may have up to 
18 names In order that all halls be equally 
represented. halls may enter teams as follows. 
one team per 100 students; each hall w1ll be 
nottfled of the number of teams 11 may enter 
Halls must enter teams 1n both the A and B Divi­
SIOns The number of teams entered in one dtvi­
sion may not exceed the number of teams 
entered 1n the other diVISIOn by more than one 
Due to the large number of forfeitS 1n prevtous 
years. a $20 entry fee Will be reqUired tor pay­
ment of referees Proof of 1nsurance IS reqwred 
from each player 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Deadline for women s basketball registration IS November 10, and team members must represent the same hall. Teams must have a m101mum of 10 players and a $20 entry tee IS reqUired to pay offlctals. Proof of 1nsurance IS re­qUired from each player. 
CLUB BASKETBALL 
Deadline for sign ups IS November 10. Club must be regtstered With student activities, and players must be members of the club tor wh1ch they play Proof Cl1nsurance is reqUired lor each player. 
The Observer w111 accept class1f1eds Mon­
day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. classtfleds to appear 1n the next 1ssue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to 1nsert1on All class1f1eds must be prepatd. 
either 1n person or through the ma11.





Classifieds 
NEED RIDE to U of Ill lh1s weekend. Will share expenses Marya 1266/7
NOTICES 

A1ders wanted to Plllsburgh for the Pill TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
game W1ll be leavmg Frd1ay betwen 10 
and 11 am Call T1m at 8631 EXPERIENCED TYPIST · WILL DO TYPING: REASONABLE RATES· CALL: 

NEED RIDE TO MINNEAPOLIS MN (OR 287-5162 
AREA) FOR THANKSGIVING WILL SPLIT COST CALL STEVE 1027 TYPING: EX-LEGAL SECRETARY 272· 

5337 I IL...---F_O_RS_A_LE----l
LOST/FOUND
L------------------,..------_. 
LOST: a Se1ko d1g1tal watch Sliver solar battery Please call Larry at 1722 REWARD. REWARD REWARD 
FOUND: SUNY Mant1me College Jacket on Cart1er F1eld before break. Call R1ch at 1644 
LOST-L1ght brown Jockey jacket 1n AB l1ne !he Fnday before Break If you have or heard of anyone who may have found 11 could you please call 1741 or bnng 11 by 328 Grace before 11 gets cold outs1de 


FOR RENT 
N1ce furnished house 2 blocks to N D 277-3604 or 288-0955 
Student Hous1ng · Clean Safe $100/mo 291-1405 


WANTED 
Desperately need nde to P11t vs N D game W1ll leave anyttme Share ex­penses Thereze · 284-4298 t 
3 A1des needed Champaign-Urbana ISU 
Weekend of M1ch1gan game. Nov 6 Call 
Al282-1630 
NEED RIDERS TO NEW JERSEY-NYII Leav1ng Thurs 11/4 or Fn. l115 -Call Amy· 289-4664 
NEED RIDE TO U OF I CHAMPAIGN THIS WEEKEND RICH 1739 

I 
3 Aides needed Champaign· Urbana ISU Weekend of MtCiligan game Nov 6 Call 
Ai282-1630


,.!.._______, 
FOR SALE G1rl s s1ze 9 suede jacket Marya 1266/7 
FOR SALE 1 P11t GA Or Will trade lor Penn State GA Call K1m at 288·1917 

TICKETS 

WILL PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENN STATE GA TIX. CALL 312-565-5959 COLLECT AND ASK FOR STEVE LONGLEY. 
Need Penn State Ga s W1ll pay cold hard cash 8539 
GOLLY JEEPERS' I need lwo PENN STATE GAs, b1g brother would l1ke lo see a game Wllh Pop Call DAVE al 1165 
Need 2 GAs & 2 student t1x for Penn St F1rst game ever for my fam1ly 277-0593 
I need Penn State tickets! Student or GA Melissa x 1308 
HELP! Need two PITT GAs Please call Nancy 1880 
HELP' Haven t seen par!'nts •n 3 months and won"t see them ttl Chnstmasttme un­less I can get some PENN STArE G A s Please reuuntte me wtth my perenls Kathy x6973 Thank you 
HELP' I need 4 Penn St GA t1x Call Bnan at 255-3287 
Need 2 G.A t1x 101 F-e·1n State game Parents war-t to ·.ae· ftrst NO game Please call Ndncy 44~ .. SMC 
Wanted. 4 G As for """n St $$Call Sue <5429 (srncl $$ 
NEED H'iH TIX C ; ~ 175 
~ 

What was that? You sa1d you wanted to become Instantly nch? Then buddy, I m your ticket, as long as y all have lwo for me Two Penn st. GAs, that IS, and you know my mass1ve mounds of money w11t be more than enough to make you w1sh to sell them to you Call Extremely Well To Do Cindy Lou --·· Lou at 2948 
Help· my Mom 1s bnng1ng 1n Jim Morrison and two tnends from the Afncan Conhnent lo see the Penn St game Would you hap­pen 
HELP! Need Penn State G A s or student t1xs Call2773 
Wanted: 2 PET NN ST G A s Willln!Jiooul· b1d other offers Call Ed at 1791 
I have PENN TIX!! Best offer Call 8115 after 10pm 
NEED TICKETS FOR N.D PITT CALL GREG 233-8091 
I need 2 PENN STATE G A s Call Pally 
x283-7947 Thanks. 

BIG BUCKS DELUXE as reward for those PENN STATE GAs. Call MATT 277-45 73 Will pay f1rst offer so CALL NOW 
HELP! NEED 4 PENN STATE GAS' 
PLEASE CALL SHEILA 289-9304 
My old man w1ll top your best offer f01 4 
P•lll1ckets call8947 
HELP1I NEED 4 PENN ST GAs · CALL 
BRYAN 8789 

NEED PENN ST TIX CALL MIKE 287­
4225 
NEED 2 PENN STATE GAS CALL x1610 ASK FOR RICH 
We need Penn State GAs Call Dave 3673(be5t late) or T1m 3667 
Neea two GA s lor Penn State $$$ are no problem Call M1ke at 3626 
FREE BEER or 2 PITT I~< (or both! 
w'ln!ed Call1374 
Wanlel1 2 GAs to Pe11n St Name your 
pnce 6~49 dfter 1 0 p111 

J need t1dets to t11~ P1tl gdrne: Ph:~ase rail 
A;I al n7 8371 NEED PENN STATE GA TIX CALL 1173 

I NEED 6 GAS and all the help I can get m f1nd1ng them They don t have to be together 7947 Ask for Kathy. THANKS 
NEED PENN ST GAs BIG TIME! $$$ CALL 1627 
help need Penn St t1x student or GA Call Steve 8670 or 8681 
WE NEED PENN ST TICKETS CALL DAVE OR DON 1850 
I NEED PITT.PENN ST GAs $$$CALL BRENDAN 3207 
I need 2 student llx lor Penn Slale Please call Tracy x8009 
NEED 6 PENN STATE GAs. CALL 289­3538 
Desperately need 1 studenllic torv1S1!1ng g~rlfnend lor Penn St $$$ Call Jeff al 1026 
NEED I STUDENT OR GA PENN ST TICKET PLEASE CALL RICH AT 1758 
PLEASE1 NEED PENN ST STUDENT TIX DESPERATELY W1ll pay$. call Bill 287·3538 
NEED 2 or 4 PENN ST GAs M1ke 3261 or 3263 
HELP a poor pre-med whose genetics flies got mto the radiation tab, grew to be eight feet !all, got even for me watching them In their private "chromosomal duplication activities" by calling me a voyeur and then proceeding to EAT MY PARENTS PENN STATE G.A. TIX! Not only 1s the College ot Science takmg me to court, but my parents w111 shoot me I need ttx! Call Laune at 7730 or 7983' 
RUSH 2 RUSH llx for sale $11 ea call Magg1e SMC 4345 
NEED TWO TICKETS TO PENN STATE GAME WILL PAY$$$'" CALL LINDA Al 4418 
NEED TWO PITT TICKETS CALL ·284­51150R 284-5150 

I PERSONALS
L _______J 
ASSOCIATE WITH US HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES, 1·2 YR. POSTGRAD SERVICE PROGRAM WITH SIMPLE CHRISTIAN LIFESTYLE IN USA AND CHILE. CHILE DEADLINE NOV. 4. CALL MARY ANN ROEMER 5293. 
SENIORS FOR 1983-85, CONSIDER WORK WITH HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES PROGRAM IN CHILE. APPLICATION DEADLINE NOV. 4TH. CALL MARY ANN ROEMER 5293. 
Dear Woman. 
Well here we are four years togelher as of 
thiS date Dtd you ever lhtnk we would 
make II thiS long? I never thought I would 
find the t1me to lype lh1s 1n, but somehow 1 
did Welt I want to let you know that 1am 
wntmg this personal on October 21. so I 
am stllllook1ng forward to thiS breqk. God 
knows I need 11 I am sttll wattmg to rece1ve 
a letter from you , I would tmagtne thts 
puts me up threc: to one Well 1 want to 
keep th1s relatiVely shan and stmple, Hap­
py Anniversary. and I w111 see you tn a couple of days The L1zard 
Performers Be 1n the ng nght ltmet Students wm cash. scholar­shtps. an overseas tour. audttlons by major compantes. much more' Enter ACTS! Box 3AC f. NMSU. Las Cruces. NM 88003 1505) 646-4413 
11ts c01n1mg soon. The t BEAUX ARTS BALL Fn Nov 12. 8 30 PM Featunng the sounds of THE VERBS Candidate for Event of the Semester most deflnttely 
KATE GEORGEN 
I love you! Surpnse1 
· Deg 
Congratulations Ia JOANIE SCHLEHUBER of 414 Lewos JOANIE •S the proud wtnner to the ftrst annual HAL­LOWEEN WET T-SHIRT CONTEST To ra1se money for the NHO FOUNDATION, Joan1c tS selhng her wet t-shtrl to the hig­hest bidder CALL 8115 
LSAT Revtew lor Dec 4th exam begtns Sunday Nov 7th Call Stanley Kaplan Educ Center now to enroll· 232-2366' 
THEO MaJOrs unite! Th1s plug for ecufl1en,sm urges one anl1 all to JOin Joseph1ne ForO tn an mtorrnai dtscusstor~ dnd coft.Pe hour Tt1ursda v Nov 4 dt 5 pm Pldce 131 0 Shag Jotrl us1• 
lHE B P Af>.ii~ALS ARE Oil! THE HuNT 
AGAIN' THE PAC WILL BE DEVOURED' If you are leav1ng for ThanksgiVIng be· tween 11 am and about 2pm on Wed Nov 24 and are go1ng to,thru,or near Cleveland. PLEASE call Tom at 12.17. I absolutely MUST be 1n Cleveland by 6pm 
Nov 24 
HI LUSCIOUS LIPS. THOUGH I M GLAD YOUR BREAK WAS GREAT I M EVEN HAPPIER THAT YOUR BACK LOOKING FORWARD TO 
YOU  HOURS OF LONG TALKS. I Ml LOVET  
Wanted 8500  A CW for Tom Schre1er Call Love· BP RWs  
MR MOJO RISIN Saturday mght  

International Swtcase Club Orgamzatlon­al meetmg to be held th1S Thurs Nov 4. 8 30PM SMC Clubhouse Top1c of discus­Sion: selection at delegates to represent I S.C 1n AMSTERDAM Members are 
welcomed to attend 
International Su1tcase Club OrgantzatJon­al meeting 10 be held th•s Thurs Nov 4. 8 30PM SMC Clubhouse Top1c of d•scus­ston. setectJon of delegates to represent I S C 1n AMSTERDAM Members 'are welcomed to atte11d 
Pedormcrs Be-1n the ngnt place dt the nght tJme1 Students Ntn cash. scnolar shtps an overseas tour audittons by maJOr compan1es. much moret Enter ACTS• Box 3ACT. NMSU. Las Cruces, NM 88003 !505) 646-4413 
Moose are elegant. but marsupials are a d1ffereot breed Don t you hate Harry s wtfe? 
tits com1mg soon. fhe BEAUX ARTS BALL Fro Nov 12, 8 30 PM Fealunng the sounds of THE VERBS Candidate for Event of rhe Semester most oef1nately 
SEMI KERWIN I LOVE YOU" SUSIE X 
Wnatdo BUSTER LOPES STEVE PAISLEY JOE RUDZINSKI MIKE PHILLIPS 
JOHN TUBBS hdve 1n common? The~ each owe rne a ~~x pnc ~o. of ~he ·ldiiOi s NUMBER ONE neer tor !he NUMBER ONE baseball tertnl 1n the NUMBER ONE r 11·, · PJ,. dp guy~ lhts 8w1 :• tcr MEH~' 11 
love..:,ane 

, 
~ I ------~------------~----------------·--------·--~ 
' 

The Observer Wednesday, November 3, 1982-page 9 1 I 
With surpassing success 

Volleyball team ends season 
By DAVID A. STANG team wants to work and they enjoy .\ports Writer it. They are definately one ofthe bet­ter goups I've had." The coach was 
The Notre Dame women's tennis also impressed with the way the girls team completed its successful fall "stayed together and kept playing as season with three convincing vic­a team through all the unfortunate tories that enabled them to finish the injuries during the season." year at 8-2. The squad's only losses Though all the players performed of the fall came in the first match of well and improved during the the year, where early-season fitters course of the season, a few special prevailed, and at the hands of a performances stood out in Coach veteran Purdue team. Petro's mind. Probably the biggest 
The young women'S team, made up entirely of freshmen and sopho­
'This team wants to work 
mores, gained needed experience and confidence as the season and they enjoy it. Theyprogressed. The scheduling of weaker teams amid the ranked are definitely one ofthe schools had a definate effect on the team's play. Coach Sharon Petro better groups I've had. ' summed it up, "It's good for the freshman that we play the weaker surprise was sophomore Laura Lee, teams at first in order to break them who jumped up to the No. 2 singles into college-level tennis, but it slot compared to her No. 5 placing makes it difficult to get ready for the last year. Lee has "worked hard on tough teams. We need to play more her game and has improved con­tough teams if we want to become siderably." Another large step in the more consistent." right direction was taken by Cathy 
The one factor which held the Schnell, who was the No. 5 singles women's squad together through player this fall, after being No. 10 on their ups and downs was the team the depth charts last year. Two fresh­unity that was expressed. "I was men who were effective for the Irish etremely pleased with the attitude this season are Mary Colligan at No. ofthe team," said Coach Petro. "This 3 singles, who "works hard for all 
her points," and Greta Roemer, "she's an excellent doubles player, who's always smiling," explained their coach. 
Between now and when the team heads back onto the courts in early January, Coach Petro plans to keep her squad in shape. "We'll be working mainly on conditioning, both mental and physical. The girls will have a light schedule with not very much time being spent on the court until after the winter break." 
The spring schedule for the women netters should prove to be more challenging than this fall's, be­cause they will be facing many tough Division I opponents. Coach Petro explained, "It should not be a problem to get up for these teams and to maintain some consistency." The coach is "looking forward" to the spring season when she hopes that the team, will be "much tougher and healthier." The women will start off the season with a tournament in Hilton Head, North Carolina during spring break. They will face such class teams as Virginia, Wake Forest, Miami ofOhio, and Louisville. Coach Petro defines this tournament and the whole spring schedule as "a tune up for nationals," and she added, "hopefully we'll make it." 


Bowie Kuhn, ousted Monday as baseball commissioner, will remain at thepost untilhiscontractexpires in August. (APPhoto) 
1rill:E~CID1ril31:m WA0Aicrm 
IF~~COriJ0L1 ~~1rTIWI/1rTICID~ 
~rmrnrrrm~ ~ORlt&ll~~~ 
8JP.lE &10miiA!Ilt aw•~ WAlLTlBD O,.!fAlilll:liai!llltliDiil GOlDHilll~lLO:!b aB:D ~DliA8'1J::Dll:ll Ol! Tltil:. D2.'ll:li:WATJ!OR'4lta Jil0l!JI2.'AJ.IlYlf1J'B» 

Sponsored by the Finance Club 
I 
l 
I 
1 
... 


Kuhn still on the job in New York 
NEW YORK (AP) -A sleepy­
eyed but undaunted Bowie Kuhn 
returned to his desk yesterday, dis­
appointed but not embittered that a 
minority of baseball owners denied 
extension of his contract as the 
game's commissioner. 
He will continue until Aug. 13, the 
expiration date of his second seven­
year contract, while an eight-man 
executive board seeks a successor. 
"Am I bitter?" the 6-foot-5 
onetime Wall Street attorney said, 
repeating a question. There was a 
long pause while he pondered the 
query. 
'"Bitterness' h a foreign word to 
me," he said. "'Rancor' and 'hatred'­
they're not in my vocabulary. Hurt? 
yes. And confused. When I know 
that 70 percent of-the owners sup­
ported me and knowing I have done 
a good job and baseball has made 
tremendous strides, I am naturally 
disappointed. 
"I regret, too, that I will not be 
able to be a part of the great gains 
that I have envisioned for the game." 
Kuhn was rejected by eight of the 26 clubs -the five decisive ones coming in the National League -at a meeting of owners Monday in Chicago. 
He caught a plane and flew back to 
New York through a storm to find 
his family greeting him in a party at­
mosphere. He arose at 5 a.m. yester­
day to meet live broadcast 
commitments with the three major ­
television networks. 
Returning to his 16th floor office 
in a New York skyscraper, he found 
the telephone ringing incessantly. 
He didn't duck anyone. 
Kuhn said he could have saved his 
job if he had been willing to placate 
the hard core of his detractors and 
agree to compromise the role of his 
office. 
"I could never do that," he in­
sisted. "I firmly believe that 
baseball's survival depends on a 
strong commissioner. I don't think 
the game can be run by a two­
headed monster as suggested. There 
is a place for someone to con­
centrate on business enterprises but 
only one commissioner. 
"The tougher the problems, the 
tougher should be the commis­
sioner." 
• 


Projects ranging from large data 
base software systems, 
communications spacecraft and 
alternative energy sources, to




oesn' 
• 
scientific satellites, high energy lasers and microelectronics. 
And you'll appreciate the opportunity to see these projects to completion. 

In the long run we think you'll find that TRW offers an environment that brings out 

us ... 
At TRW it's what we're all about. We've created an environment encouraging people like you to 
define and go after your individual professional goals. So when you work with us, 
you'll get a personalized approach to your technical growth. An approach that includes . 
An informal atmosphere that 
encourages insightful thinking. 
Co-workers who value the free 
interchange of ideas. 
Responsive managers who look 
out for your advancement. A broad spectrum of challenging 
proJects to choose from -­
the uniqueness in you. 
TRW will be on campus 11/11. 12 hiring graduates in most Engi­neering and Scientific disciplines at all degree levels. 
See your Placement Office for more information. 
College Relations TRW Electronics and Defense Bldg. R5/B196, Dept. NO One Space Park Redondo Beach. CA 90278 
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H 
U.S. Citizenship Required 
··~·· 
.. 


, 
-------·--·-------------------­
The Observer Wednesday, November 3, 1982-page 10 
Taking on No.1 

Faust cautious about Pitt 
By ED KONRADY A huge question mark rests on the won't know who will be playing un­Sports Writer Irish offensive line. Starting quick til tomorrow or Thursday," said guard Randy Ellis tore knee liga­Faust. "We're missing three people ments against Navy and had surgery who would be starters, and that ets at the Gate lO U~ windQws ofthe ACC today. . . Jickets Sunday, and will be sidelined for the doesn't make it easy for us to put will be available O,q ' 1it$t~come, llnt·served basis and Will be; dis· "People ask me what Pitt's rest of the season. Quick tackle Mike things together these days. We have 
tributed to s:¢ntpp.; j~n, sophOmores and graduate $tlld,ents Pn weaknesses arc," Coach Gerry Faust Shiner missed the Navy trip with an anotherJineman who was banged up Thu~y. (l'()m 8 ;~.ln. !Jnti!. 5 p.m. atthe second against Navy, but hopefully he will
said. "I haven't found any." ankle IOJury suffered againstFreshmen may.ptck.up.these.tiick~ts OQ Friday. be able to play in a day or two.
Oregon. Center Mark Fischer had an Package'A'~erA:renadckets are · 
A theme of pessimism was arthroscopic knee exam following Luwer Arena an«:Jlx>tb Bleacher packages are still "This situation ha.'i affected us all
prevalent at Faust's weekly Tuesday the Michigan State game and has not The followin · an: contained in p,.,,lt,.,I:IP · press conference. "We feel that Pitt played since. Doctors have just year on the offensive line. It's just something we'll have to work on this
Yugoslavia;· st0netlill; Dec. 4 --UCLA; given him permission to start full­
is the number one team in the 
week. We're teaching all our

Jan. ll -Cil .· . . .·· 19 .._ Bucknell; Feb. 5 country," said Faust, "and we've scale workouts. March 3 _;· Uo$tra;Matcb 7 -Dayton. voted that way throughout the year. lineman two positions because we have such a depth problem."
The saintMary's Student Activities Office is haiadl!in!~·~~~ ~iatc: at'Jd They have talent both offensively "We've got so many question distribution oftic::kets fur all SMC students. and defensively." marks on our line, we probably 
When the party is BYOB (BringYourOwn Brush), you find out who your friends are. 
.. 
> 
Friends aren't hard to find when 
you're out to share agood time. But 
the crowd sure thins out when 
I 
there's work to do, And the ones 
who stick around deserve 

something special.

I 
Tonight, let it be LOwenbrau. 




Lowenbrau. Here's tog~!!~!!t~~~!= 
Senior tailback Phil Carter's thigh contusion is healed and "he's ready to play," said Faust. Fullback Larry Moriarty returned to duty against Navy after missing two weeks with an ankle sprain. 
. . . NFL 
continuedfrom page 12 
sides' bargaining stances, there are major issues separating the two parties. But the union is willing to give in on one of them, the length of the contract. 
The owners have offered a five­year contract, allocating $1 3 billion over the final four years -the first year's value to be determined after the strike's losses have been added up. 
The union has been seeking a three-year, !il.l-billion package. 
The union is saying· it would be willing to accept the five-year con­.tract in a tradt:-off on another un­specified issue and if management would include a "reopener clause" to reflect "unusual cosr-of·li\'ing in­
creases,"  according to a  union  
source.  
Cnder  the  union's  wage-scale  

proposal, which hegins at 560.000 for a rookie, a fourth-year player would receivt: a minimum of S 139,000. l 'nder rnanagernenfs counter-offer, which begins at $30.000 for a rookie, a fourth-year player would recein· S60,000. 
Special Rates Sheraton Inn No. 
(ND-Pitt) 
S29.95 plus tax 
pto 4 people/roo with this coupon 

Sheraton Inn North 4859 McKnight Rd. 
Pitt. , P a. 192 3 7 (412) 366-5200 




fT.ti'lJ·I!·soAY 
4TTHf 

SNIT[ 
It's an event: 
MUSEUM TOURS CIDER &DOUGHNUTS BUTTONS 
NOV.4 

4 TO 8PM 

~---~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~~_.,.,..~.........."'·---·-··...............---..1­
Ihe~IYer======================~==============~ 
--·-~ ·-----~------.----------~ 
----~-----------------------------~ 





~~4[]1l~~==========================~==e=d=n=e=sd=a=y='=N=o=v=e=m=b=e=r==3,=1=9=8=2====p=ag=e===ll 
Doonesbury 
~---------~ 
rrMJSTCERJlVND'15MJT.f 7HEI?&'S WZN NO CXCffA!o9 CF VlfJIIS, NO ~&IC lJIA-Hfl?& lUi/£! 7Hl3107ll?StlH/3 IT 






ACROSS 24 Possessive 1 Search 25 Baseball thoroughly play 5 Race of 28 Highway 
Norse gods 33 General at 10 Genetic Gettysburg letters 34 Buffalo 13 "-want 35 First ~-r.-:---1~..., Is you" state: abbr. 14 Dem, the 36 Malaria actor symptom 15 Baby's 37 Legal place papers 
--+---1~-+---1 16 Orchestra 38 City on the leader, Dnieper once 39 Child 
18 -up(make 40 Military 
phony) hat 19 Cut 41 Exact 20 Lined look-alike 22 Marathons, 42 Slogan of 
e.g. 1952 
The Daily Crossword 1 
Tuesday's Solution 
11/3/82 All Rights Reserved 111318Z ©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 


...cA btt o6 ~~. a · 
attd apudt o~ tlfadttiOtl ... eome ~rn t11e PiudeJlt CUtiOtl 
uVD;ie~ 
<.Ab;. 2 <t}iddQ0'l {»\ Hle ~ ~-gct}2a~ gw~t{)t\ u\bJ 4 £lrotMu\kn 
u\b!5~~ 


:.)hi 6 ~~·~ CU,hmrut 

Garry Trudeau 



Campus 
•9 
a.m. · 3 p.m. -Book Sale, On damaged and dusty books, Memorial Library Concourse 

•12:10 
p.m. -Film, "Life in America," 105 Law School, Sponsored by Christian Legal Society 

•3:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Design of Resilient Processing Plants," Prof. Manfred Morari, Univer­sity ofWisconsin, 303 Cushing Hall 

• 
3:30 p.m. -Lecture, "Advances in the Rational Prediction of Boundary Layer Trasition," Prof. Eli Reshotko, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•4 
p.m. -Music Department Colloquium, "Who Wrote SECTIO CANONIS?'' Andre Barbera, 124 Crowley Hall 

•4:30 
p.m. Microbiology Seminar, "Interaction of Antibiotics with Phagocytes," Dr. Gary Gray, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•6:30 
p.m. -College to Career Days, Mrs. Bar­bara O'Toole, Stapelton Lounge, SMC 

•7 
p.m. -Presentation, "The Use of the Mail Campaign in YourJob Search," Paul Reynolds, 123 NSH, Sponsored by Placement Bureau 

•7 
p.m. -SexOffense Seminar, Legal Aspects of 


. Rape, Bonnie Werntz, Anne Schellinger, Hayes Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by Women's Caucus 
•7 
p.m. -Panel Discussion, On Jonathan Schell's "The Fate of the Earth," Stepan Center, Sponsored by CORE Course ofArts and Letter 

•7, 
9:15, & 11:30 p.m.-Film, "Black Stallion," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union, Sl 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Virtue and the Fullness of Christian Life," Dr. Charles Rice, 115 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by Thomas More Society 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Role of IMF in the Changing World Financial System," Mr. Walter 0. Habermeier, Sponsored by NO Finance Club, Library Auditorium and Lounge 

•8 
p.m. -SMC Performing Arts Series, "Mark Twain in Person," O'Laughlin Auditorium, S2 for students 

•B 
p.m. -Lecture, "Sculpture: The Space Con­nection," Glenn Zweygardt, Annenberg Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "lt,terpreting the 1982 Elec­tion Returns," Victor Fingerhut, Architecture Auditorium 

•8:15 
p.m. -Lecture, "Euthanasia and Living Wills," Dr. Charles Rice, 115 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by NO Thomas More Society 


T.V. Tonight 
6p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 
9p.m. 
9:30p.m. lOp.m. 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 3-2-1 Contact 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS News 28 ABC'S World News Tonight 34 Over Easy 
16 M•A•s•H 22 Laverne and Shirley 28 Joker's Wild 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 16 All in the Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 16 Real People 22 Seven Brides for Seven Brothers 28 Tales of the Gold Monkey 34 Previn and the Pittsburgh 16 Facts of Life 22 Alice 28 The Fall Guy 34 Stanley Kramer on Film 16 Family Ties 22 Filthy Rich 16 Quincy 22 Tucker's Witch 28 Dynasty 
.. 
~· 
.... 
44 Arcturus' constella­tion 
45 Tak•home 
pay 46 TVfare 48 Compared 52 Macbeth's 
foe 
56 Given through the mouth 
57 Driver's pickup 59 Dickens' Sikes 60 To the point 61 Gameof 
chance 62 Comp.pt. 63 Drinks 64 Abstract 
being 
DOWN 1 Sinclair Lewis hero 2 Oldwine pitcher 
3 1054 4 Exercise 
stint 5 Spiritless 6 Wearaway 7 Sourceof 
energy 8 Frosts 9 Makeslike 
new 10 Let fall 11 U.S. missile 12 Sleeping 15 Bird sound 17 Wipeout 21 Mystery 23 Florida 

soccer player 25 Valuable violin 26 Author 
Erich 27-Arabia 29 Biblical 
preposition 30 Simpleton 31 City in New 
Hampshire 32 Fairies 34 FarEast 
liquor: var. 37 Hero symbol 38 Gold rush 
·region 40 Witnessed 41 Davenport 43 Bellsound 44 Composer 
Johannes 47 Host 48 Earpart 49 Eye part 50 Cabbage 51 Caper 53 Guitars 54 Marshes 55 Cleaving 
tool 58 Mll.grp. 
... -,~ni"r JJ;~r Senior Bar G~ welcomes you backwith its Draft Beer Special Wed. 9:30-11:00  ·  

,.. 
-----~-------~--­
t 
i 
~ 
I 
I 
Newjersey. (Photo hy Ed Carroll)


Wednesday, November 3, 1982-page 12 
Irish look for football upset 

Irish Items 

TO CATCH A THIEF -Dave Duerson has proven to be adept at taking a football, whether someone gives it to him or not. .md run­ning with it. With his three interceptions in last Saturday's :"'avy game, he tied a Notre Dame record for interceptions in a game. and he broke Tom Schoen's record for interception return vardage at the same time. Duerson n.:turned Saturday's interceptions 56 yards, giving him I 0 interception returns t()r 156 yards in his· career. Schoen returned I I for 116 yards. 
Duerson is also tied with Frank Carideo for the all-rime lead in the number ofpunts returned with 92. His return yardage of"'"''* yards is second only to Carideo's 947. 
CONFIDENCE STRENGTHENED -Navy continues to be a con­
fidence booster for the Irish offense. Blair Kiel threw ~..f passes with­out an interception breaking a ~8-year record for attempts without an interception. Kiel completed 18 of those passes for 220 yards ­just 5 yards shy ofhis personal best. Tony Hunter tied a personal best with his seven catches for 85 yards, and Oklahoma was left the only division 1-A. team yet to throw a touchdown pass. 
GOLD RUSH PANNING OUT -The Irish defense continues to figure highly in the current NCAA statistics. Notre Dame is now second in rushing defense, fifth in total defense, and tenth in scoring defense. 
Although no sacks were recorded Saturday in Giants' Stadium, the Irish pass rush forced six interceptions-just one short ofthe Notre Dame record set against Northwestern in 1971. 
On 5 7-of-1 01 possessions, Irish opponents have been unable to make a first down. Only 11 of these possessio.ns have resulted in drives ofover 50 yards -and 67 have produced drives of 20 yards or less. 
SPOILERS -Notre Dame sports teams have a reputation for beating the nations top-ranked teams. Just ask the basketball teams of San Francisco (when they had one), UCLA, Kentucky, and Virginia. Ask Southern Cal, Alabama, and Texas in football. Pitt has to realize that they can't sit on a ten-point spread and hope to defeat the Irish. 
PANTHER POWER-Dan Marino leads a high-powered Panther offense. He has connected on I 26-of-218 passes for 1411 yards, 11 touchdowns, and 18 interceptions. Marino may be one of the country's top quarterbacks, but his third-leading receiver is still his opponent. 
The Pitt defense is also highly rated. They are seventh in rushing defense, tenth in total defense, and fifth in scoring defense. Satur­day's game promises to be a defensive struggle. 
SO WHO NEEDS PERFECTION -MikeJohnston is the most con­sistent part of the Notre Dame offense. Although he had his first attempt of the-Navy game blocked, he came back to kick field goals of 40, and 48 yards. The 48-yarder was the longest of his career. Johnston has connected on 1 5-of-16 field goal attempts, and has con­verted on all 12 ofhis point-after attempts. He is now only three field goals short of Harry Oliver's record of 18 for a season. 
PANTHER STREAK -Pitt is coming off two consecutive 1 I-1 seasons and have won 40 of their last 43 games, and 23 of their last 24 home games. 
The Irish lead in the series 31-13-1. This is the first meeting be­tween the two teams since Notre Dame won in 1978 by a 26-1 7 margin. The last time the Irish traveled to Pitt Stadium they won 19-9 to open the 1977 National Championship season. Notre Dame boasts a 16-7 record in games played at Pitt Stadium. The Irish last loss to the Panthers was in 1976 by a 31-10 margin. 
STRENGTH IN NUMBERS -Not always the case. Early in the season the NCAA rated the Irish schedule as the third toughest in the nation based on their opponents' records last year. Currently Irish opponents have a combined record of 43-38-2. Four teams on the schedule have records under .500. Four teams are still rated in the Top-Twenty, three of these still left to play. SMU should try it, 
HALLOWEEN GAME RESCHEDULED -Notre Dame's unbeaten JV football team's Oct. 31 game with Cincinatti will be played at 1:30 
p.m. on Sunday, Nov. 14 on Cartier Field. 
RED SMITH WRITING SCHOLARSHIP-The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Northern NewJersey and the NewJersey Sports and Exposi­tion Authority made contributions to the new Red Smith S('holarship at Notre Dame, Smith's alma mater, it was announced during halftime of last Saturday's game. The award will go annually to an outstanding Communications student. 

InNFL strike 
Players make major concessions 
NEW YOJ{K (AP)-The striking The latest concession by the un­the central fund was considered a National Football League players un­ion is its third since the talks began. cornerstone of the union's proposal ion yesterday rna. 'c major conces­The players originally sought 55 per­-and likewise has been opposed by 
sions to manag' tnent, including cent of all NFL gross revenues, and the management council, the dropping its demands for a percent­later modified that to a demand for owners' bargaining unit. . age of television revenues and a 50 percent ofthe TV revenues. Now, The owners also are offering for central fund. they have backed off that, too. the first tme a comprehensive 
With the strike in its 43rd day and The union is seeking, instead, only severance package based on the a seventh regular-season weekend a a guarantee that it receive a share in minimum annual wage scale. A tO­likely casualty by today, the union any renegotiated TV package. In year veteran, for example, would was virtually abandoning several key other words, if the lucrative cable receive the equivalent 10-year mini­elements ofits financial package. television market becomes part of mum in his first year following 
Management, too, made a conces­the NFL's overall package before the retirement as a player. Currently sion in its bargaining position by existing .112.1-billion TV contract there is no severance pay. agreeing to include players' perfor­expires after the 1986 season, the Oespite the changes in the two mance and incentive bonuses in the union would get a share ofit. 
See N.F.L., page 10

collective bargaining agreement. Like the TV percentage demand, 
A tragicmandate 
Stepping back for a better look 
BOSTON -In this part of the country, the arrival of winter is, for many, a joyous occasion. For while with winter, inevitably, come deep snow drifts and numbing cold, winter also brings hockey. 
Ifyou grow up in New England, you grow up with the game. Many kids are put on skates as soon as they are able to walk. Some play hockey as they get older. A few 
excel. On rare occasions, a kid plays the game so well he can make a living at it. But last week, Leveille's shining star flickered out. Be­My own fascination with hockey began at a very tween periods of a game in Vancouver, he sufferred a 
young age. My father was one of those people who not massive cerebral hemorrhage. Doctors still don't know only excelled, but was given the opportunity to make a ifhe'lllive -but they do know there's permanent brain living on the ice. damage, and that he'll never play hockey again. 
I may have had the world's weakest ankles, or been He was the pride of Villeray, Quebec. "In this neigh­
emotionally scarred by a younger sister who was a borhood here, he was our first big star," says Michel figure skating whiz. My father may not have had the Bisonette, Leveille's childhood friend. patience to teach me to skate. More likely, I didn't have He played the game cleanly -as it was meant to be 
the patien(.e to learn. In any event, I never did. played. And he did it well. "The kid was a sure-shot su­
But the game held me captive in front ofthe TV set for perstar," says Bruins General Manager Harry Sinden. hours on end. The high school gym became my rink, He is 19 years old, and the rest of his life may be a and I vented my athletic frustrations on a plastic puck simple struggle to survive. 
-and my friend Dave. I shot and Dave got in the way. 
He was as fascinated with goalies as I was with scorers. One of the great faults ofsport is that it takes tragedy And, incredibly, he was the only person in my to put it into perspective. hometown who skated less than I did. The people of New England are re-learning a lesson
..... 
I came to the Midwest, and my enthusiasm trans­taught to them, perhaps, more frequently than others. ferred from the NHL to Notre Dame. I lost touch with It is a lesson they learned when Tony Conigliaro lay the Boston Bruins and started to follow college hockey. writhing in the dirt on a hot August night -a pennant 
My philosophy changed as quickly as my interest. race and a career struck down with him. The "fighting is part of the game" attitude, instilled by It is a lesson they r .elived in horror when Darryl watching the pros, disappeared. I recognized the purer Stingley was brutally cut down in the prime of his aspects of the game as the most important. career. 
So it was a pleasant surprise when, last spring, I got a It is a lesson well-learned by us all. chance to watch the Bruins again. Once a team that When the ecstacy of victory raises us to great emo­
could mix it up with the best of them. Boston had tional heights, and all else seems distant and trivial ... become more or less a finesse team. Sure, Terry O'Reilly When defeat and disappointment threaten to change still punched referees. But he, Stan Jonathan, Wayne our outlook, and we constantly relive mistakes and Cashman, and the few holdovers were overshadowed. formulate excuses ... Kids had taken over. 
Those are the times to remember the lessons we Barry Pederson had become a fine player. Raymond sometimes try hard to forget. Those are the times to sit Bourque was a first-team All-Star and just out of his back and put everything into perspective. teens. And Norman Leveille showed the greatest poten­Those are the times to remember that it is, after all, tial of them all. just a game. 
, 
~ 





