
VOL. XVI, NO. 103 
an independenr srudenr newspaper serving notre dame and sainr mary's WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1982 
More SMC, ND students implicatedin drug incident 
By DIANE DIRKERS concerning reacceptance. StuffReporter Conklin also commented on the two students who, two weeks ago, 
Twenty-two students have now were flown back to the U.S. been implicated in thl" hashish inci­One student from lnnsbruck was dent involving the Notre Uamc-Sailll dismissed due to a record of prior Mary's foreign programs. Included drug abuse. The other -from An­in this group, which had originally gers -was "believed to have soml" wcalkd nineteen, arc four students <.·onncction with the <!rug abuse in from Saint Mary's and one from Holy lnnsbruck," according to Conklin, Cross junior College, according to who gave no further comment on Notrl" Dame's Director of Informa­the issue. tion Services Richard Conklin. Conklin expressed concc:rn about 
Twenty-one of these students arc the widcsprl"ad media coverage of from the lnnsbruck program, while the ha~hish incident. "It's not that the other one had been studying in the University is afraid it will look Angl"rs, France. bad -many worse scandals have hit 
<:onklin relates the details of the the media and we've weathered investigation as follows: "When the them," hl" stated. "WI." are more con­dirc<.:tor of thl" lnnsbruck program cerned with the welfare ofthose stu­wa~ informed of the hashish abuse dents involved." 
and the possible threat of legal ac­"There is no fifth amendment in tion, hi." confrontl."d thl" Innsbruck Austria," he expiaincd further. "If 
Regina Mushabec, an outstanding cellist, and her Auditorium as part of the University Artists Series.
studl"nts and asked those involved to any news ofthis reaches the Austrian 
accompanist, George Cheny, perfonned in Armenberg (photo by Beth Prezio) 
come forward." authorities, and they decide to ques­
Evl"ntually, twenty-one of them tion thl."sc students about their drug admitted to bdng engaged in thl" abuse, the students must admit to it. widc:sprcad usc of hashish, and ac­This could result in a criminal inves­
Literary Festival 
tion was takl"n by their respective tigation and charges against the stu­deans ofstudents. dents." "ThoM: I 5 students from Notre "We hope that this will not 


Terry comments on poetry andplays
Dame allowed to remain in ln­happen," Conklin continued. "In the nsbruck have bt:cn sent a letter from evl"nt that it docs, we arc fairly confi­Dean Roemer, notifying thc:m that dent that the Austrian authorities By KATHLEEN DOYLE Megan Terry was born in Seattle, In a brief introduction bcforl." thethe following actions will be taken," feel we have handled the situation News Staff Washington in 19~2. Her interest in Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Lab cxplaincd Conklin. "First, they arc sufficiently and will leave things be. 
tht.•atcr began in her childhood. She Tht."att·r productions of Advances, now on conduct probation. Second, Howl."vcr, there is no way we can be 
Playwrights and pt>l"ts should be 
wrote, directed, and performed in Pro Game. and Brazil Fado, director 
th<.·y will bc dismissed from the: Uni­sure." encouraged to try more complex her tirst ·musical during seventh Bt."a Bosco described ·rcrry's playsversity. dfcctive at the end of the In light of this, the University has forms, according to Megan Terry. grade. She later studied at thl" Scattk "as collages, instt.•ad of paintings,
spring tl."rm. Third, they will be bl."l."n very cautious with their press 
"For the human mind can take in a 
Rt."pcrtory Playhouse, the University whl."rc diffl."rcnt scraps of life art." 
given thl" opportunity to reapply for rclca~cs, which will now be handled lot more than most people think." of Alberta. and thl" Banff School of pasted togl"thc:r."
the fall semcstcr of 19H2." exclusively through Notre Dame In­"I tend to trust the audience," ycs­Fine Arts. 
Tl"rry often l."mploys the tech­In the r<.·admission application, formation Services. Absolutely no 

tt."rday's artist for the 19H2 Sopho­
Her fame ha~ come primarily from nique oftransformation in hn plays.
Conklin added, an essay will be fl."· names will be rdcascd now, or in more Literary Festival stated last her involvement in The Open This devict.• involvl"s actors <.'On· 
quired, explaining what the students the fiJturl". 
night during a question and answer 
Theater. whkh she hdped found. scantly t.·hanging t·haractt.·rs and havc learncd from their experit:ncl" Saint Mary's Dean of Student Af­
period following the production of The Open Theater is an off­scenes. in lnnsbruck. lkcisions will he fairs Kathleen Rice ddayed com­
three of her plays in the LaFortunl" Broadway theater in which aqors "In a play that is more complex, in madt: on an individual basis ment on thl" mattl"r until a later date. Hallroom. 
and directors work.togl."thl"r to form a collage, I can rl."presl."nt a whok a drama. Terry also gained recogni­country with just a ft.·w actors by tion through her most famous play using transformation as I did in and rock opera. Viet Rock. Brazil Fado, Tl"rry said. "Thl" tcdl­
"My job as a playwright is not one niqul" was dt.·vdopcd in workshops. of a monarch, but one of a transmit­It is a way ofcondcn~ing. Th<.· actors ter, instrument. and shapcr, to give a can deal with negativt.· material in a 
By MIKE SCHIERL rcprl."sl."nts a real possibility demand­only 77 pl"rcent last yl"ar's I 8 ycar­voice to the concerns ofothl"rs." positiVI." way." "Tht· tl"chniquc grl"W StaffRt!porter ing a tlrm moral response." olds t."ver rl"spondcd. 
Proposed draft affects millions 
''In the strl"cts and in the thl"atcr -out of observing thl" plays of Fl"dcral rt."gulation governing the Indeed, the dt."crl."asing response 
thcsl" arc the last two places in children, stand-up comedians, and America where you can still tdl tht· impressionists," slw continued. "ByPr<.·~it.knt Rl"agan's withdrawal of prcst.·nt n:gistration and draft may well be due to what Budget 

his pnsonal opposition to draft process wert." t1nalizcd on Novem­director David Stockman Iabdkd rcgiMration in late 19H I rais<.·d ber 17, 19.8 I. Rl"agan's subsequent slipshot management. but kft un­legitimate concern over the im­approval of the plan's institution, in chcck<.·d. this trend could result in a mirwncy of anotht•r draft. Tlw ex­late 19H I, mad!." it ckar that registra­group of non-rl"gistrants largl" pnlknt impkm<.·ntation of the tion would remain a legal obligation. l"nough to make full prosecution im­R<.·agan-approvcd plan since that Acccording to law, the penalty for possible. 
time have undoubtedly heightened Accordingly the Sclectiw Service thi~ t.·onn·rn. A workable registra­WEDNESDAY:l~1tl~1~f[ System (SSS) is taking appropriate tion system, nJUplcd with Reagan's steps to avoid any such "snowball ef­proposed dcft-nse spending in­fect." The SSS has recently l:f<.'a't.', signitics American purchasl."d certain comml"rcial
~lliii~lii~t:F ocus· 

"prl"part."dn<.·ss" in the event of mailing lists and intends to send out military confrontation. a "general reminder" of registration 
This politit'al "ml"~sagl"" <.·an sud­not registering is fivc years in jail, procedure to random members of dl"nly hccome extrcrnly important S I 0,000 dollars, or both. Prcsl"ntly the general public. In addition, a to Cl"rtain young ml."n, howl."ver, if all Aml."rican males arc legally rc­large publicity campaign is current­thl"y takl" time to considl"r fully its quirl."d to register within ~0 days ly undnway to incrl."asc thl" number po~sibk impfications. By signing his bdilrl" or after their 18th birthday. A of registrants. Obviously, the intl"nt 
name to a draft registration card, a "grace" period lasting until thl" end of the SSS is to avoid , prosecution, if young man puts himsl'lfonly one let­of Ft."bruary has bl."cn l."stablished for at all possibk, by encouraging t<.·r and ten days away from active all prl."vious non-registrants. procrastinators, the uninformed, military duty. Thl" prospects of a Prosecution of non-registrants af­and the misinformed to register im­draft art." unprl"dictablc. While the ter that date is almost certain due to mediately. tim!." separating the notification lct­gradually declining rl."sponsc. But it is also clear that the SSS tt.·r and rcportil)g date arc ncglible. Response from the t1rst two waves of plans to makc immediate Ckarly, the act of rl."gistcring is registrants, received in july of 1980, "cxampks" out of certain blatant not th<.· innocent. isolated act it ap­was fairly enthusiastic. An estimated non-rcgistants as a further method of pears to be. Registration is a 95 percent of 1961's 19 yl"ar-olds cncouragcmcnt.Thcrc arc 150 dt."signl."d step in our induction filkd out their cards. Howncr, only suuch legal cases already underway. process. as Ci'mpus .\1inistry consd-88 percent of the 19 ycar-olds born Other. names of non-registrants lur Mike: Baxter in 1962 responded to the registra­
See FOCUS, page 4 

asscrts,"Rcgistration. in itsdf, tion hl"ld january ';-I, 1981. Finally, truth. How long thl" strt·cts and the using transformation a great deal of theater arc kept up is a matter ofvital 
See PLAYS, page 4 

concern to all of us." 
Directorleaves Poland, comes to Notre Dame 
By MARY BETH PORTER Canada and will arrive at Notre 
News Staff 
Dame Thursday. 
Braun will remain for thl" rest 

Kazimicrz Braun, tht.• polish ofthl" Sl"mestl"r, but Professor Lif· 
director scht•dukd to work with ton gavl." no details as to how he 
thc Notre Dame-Saint Mary's will complete the semester. Lif­
Theatre Department and direct ton said he ha~ to speak with 
the Shakcspcarl."an comedy has Braun bcforl." any dd1nitc ar­
arrived in Montreal, Canada and rangements arc announced. 
is in route to N T otrc Dame. 
According to Mary Franccll, 

Braun, unable to leave Poland publkit}' coordinator for the 
when martial law went into t.•ffcct department, Braun will decide 
in December, was recently whether to produce the Polish 
granted permission by the Polish protest play in place of the 
government to leave the country. Shakl"spcarc play. Franccll added 
Professor Mitchell Lifton, Chair­that she doubts Braun will dccidl" 
man of the Communication and to produce a Polish protest play, 
Theatre Dt;partmcnt, has con­since his family rl"mains in 
firmed that Braun is currently in Poland. 

By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Notre Dame securityhas issued its annual warning ofunsafe ice on Saint Mary's Lake after two Holy Cross Hall residents narrowly escaped drowning Sunday afternoon. 
The students were taking the short cut to the Rockne Memorial 
Building when the ice gave way, it was reported. The incident 
occured at 4:20 p.m. -The Observer 

Wayne B. WiJJiams turned back attempts by prosecutors yesterday, lashing out at his accusers, declaring: "I'm innocent and that's all there is to it." "Did you experience any pariic at any point during the time you were killing these victims?" Assis­tant District Attorney jack Mallard asked the 23 year-old murder defendant at one point during the afternoon cross-examination. "Sir, I haven't killed anyone," Williams replied. "Isn't it true you killed them?" Mallard asked. "I'm about as guilty as you are," Williams told him. "Now if you killed them, that would make me guilty. So if you didn't kill them, that means I'm not guilty." At one point Williams said he could have been a victim himselfin the stringofslayings of28 young Atlanta blacks that outraged the nation. "I'm 23 years old and, who knows, I could have been one ofthose persons ending up dead out there," said the defendant. "Heck, anybody n Atlanta could b.ave during that time, and I'm not sure that it's over, to be honest with you." -AP 
Congressional investigators said yesterday 
that commodities fraud has grown into a $200 million-a-year "floating crap game" that easily eludes the federal agency respon­sible for policing the industry. The Senate Permanent Sub­committee on Investigations heard testimony from investors who were duped out of their life savings and convicted swindlers who practically overnight turned their knowledge of Wall Street into fortunes. One of the swindlers alleged that lawyers with the Com­modity Futures Trading Commission who are winning their fraud cases are being hired away by the defendants' law firms. Sen. William 
V. Roth Jr., R/ Del., the subcommittee chairman, said thousands of Americans have been victimized "by con artists operating under the guise oflegitimate commodity investment firms." -AP 
The United States is keeping a destroyer equipped with sophisticated electronic gear off the coast of El Salvador to lis­ten in on radio communications,. Pentagon sources said yesterday. Defense officials who asked not to be identified waved aside sugges­tions that the warship was meant to be a show of force. A single destroyer does not pack enough combat power for that, they said. Although intelligence-gathering methods are closely guarded, it is known that the destroyers of the Spruance class are fitted with the t:nost advanced equipment for what is called communications­intelligence. The Deo, on station in the Pacific off El Salvador since some time in january, and the Caron, which recently relieved it, are both of the Spruance class. It could not be determined whose radio traffic was being intercepted. But the ship would be in a position to overhear communications among guerrilla units in El Salvador and between those units and supporters in neighboring Nicaragua. 
-2AP 
Fidel Castro has endorsed a Mexican peace· plan for Central America that calls for talks between Cuba and the United States. But he set a condition -that the Reagan administration stop what he called "continuous threats" against its neighbors. The Cuban president, in a letter to Mexican President jose Lopez Portil­lo, also said he was "ready to offer the fullest guaratees" that weapons in Cuba will not be used for aggression anywhere in the Western Hemisphere. He did not elaborate on what was meant by "guarantees." The Cuban news agency Prensa Latina made the letter public here yesterday. Castro was responding to a three-part peace initiatjve outlined Sunday by Lopez Portillo in Managua, Nicaragua. It called for a negogiated settlement of El Salvador's civil war, a non­aggression pact between the United States and Nicaragua, and U.S.­Cuban talks to cool mutual hostility. -AP 
Draftees were hailed as patriots and builders of a 
"new society" in a blaze of publicity yesterday marking the Soviet 
Union's armed forces day. Pravda, the Communist Party newspaper, 
and other dailies gave front-page coverage to the role of Soviet 
troops in defending the country, stressing that "everything neces­
sary" was being done to improve combat readiness. A statement 
issued by Defense Minister Dmitri F. Ustinov accused imperialist 
circles, chiefly in the United States, ofa "vicious campaign" ofattacks 
against Poland and Cuba, ofwaging undeclared war against Afghanis­
tan and ofheating up the Middle East conflict. Army privates in great­
coats and fur caps used their day off to tour Kremlin landmarks and 
other war memorials, such ,as the Soviet armed forces IUUSeum in 
Moscow. Fireworks lighted up frigid night skies over Moscow and 
other major cities in an annual observance for the estimated 3.5 
million members of the world's second largest standing military 
force, surpassed only by the 4.3 million Chinese in uniform. -AP 
Rain likelyWednesday possibly changing to snow. High in the mid and upper 30s. Wednesday night and Thursday a good chance of snow flurries and cold. Low Wednesday night in the low and mid 20s. High Thursday in the mid and upper 20s. -AP 



Nestle tactics raise controversy 
Quite a controversy has arisen regarding the tactics 
used to influence student opinion regarding the Nestle 
corporation's marketing procedures in the Third 
World. 
Notre Dame students will vote Tuesday whether or not to continue the University boycott of Nestle products, which was initiated in 1979. Nestle was accused of 'agressive' marketing procedures involving their infant formula Lactogen, _whiCh is allegedly 
responsible for millions of infant deaths in the Third World. Nestle reportedly distributes 'free samples' of infant formula to hospitals and pays physicians to promote their product to mothers. 
University President Theodore Hesburgh remarked concerning the 1979 decision that his "main concern was that students would be given the opportunity to make a well-informed, intelligent decision," adding that "they have." Boycott Committee Ch.Prman Fatherjohn Van Wolvlear noted that while the boycott probably didn't sustain any substantial adverse effects to Nestle, "at least it would have some impact." 
Food Services Director Robert Robinson predicted in 1979 that the boycott would have a small monetary im­pact on operations. "It did eliminate Nestle from our competitive bidding program and they were very competitive," Robinson added. 
In December the World Hunger Coalition submitted a report in which they called for a continuation of the boycott, according to Stu­dent Activities Director james McDonnell. Nestle also submitted a report ask­ing that the boycott be ended. The Boycott Com­mittee reviewed both reports in January, and decided that it was time to revote. 
Nestle representatives arrived at Notre Dame last week to debate the issues concerning the boycott with INFACT reprensentatives. Vice-president for Nutrition Research and Develop­ment at Nestle Coordination Center Dr. Thad jackson and his wife, Nestle nutritionalist Thelma Jackson represented Nestle, along with Susan Scanlan. Dr 
Penelope Van Esterik and Richard Hoye represented 
INFACT. 
"Students were disappointed with the INFACT 
presentation at the debate," McDonnell said, adding 
that he is willing to make a video tape of the debate 
available Thursda:r. Friday and over the weekend. 
Details on this will be announced later. 
The impression that most people would have been 
left with was more in favor ofNestle, according to WHC 
Coordinator Francis D'Eramo. "I waS not particularly 
happy with the substance of the debate," he said. "I 
don't think the issues raised were clearly defined or 
squarely faced. Both sides were nebulo~s to some ex­
tent." 
Scanlan arrived on campus 48 hours prior to the 
debate, and used 'dubious' methods to promote Nestle's position, according to WHC Educational Direc­tor George McAleer. "Nestle has been insinceri throughout this whole issue," he said. "They are only aiming to project a positive image." 

Nestle reportedly randomly phoned students and en­couraged them to attend the debate and understand "the unheard side" of the issue. They also allegedly visited Senior Bar on the afternoon of the debate and talked to students there. and invited students out for meals in order to 'discuss the issue'. 
D'Eramo noted that Nestle is accused ofusing gifts in the Third World to seduce the medical profession into distributing the infant formula. "I see an analogy in the process they use in the Third World and the technique they're using here to make their position clear," he said. 
McDonnell notes that this is the first tinre at a major Aqierican University that a corporation has expended this kind ofeffort to defeat a boycott referendum. 
The Nestle controversy was in national news during the confirmation hearings for Ernest Lefever, President Reagan's nominee as Assis­tant Secretary for Human Rights, when it was revealed that Nestle contributed 
$25,000 to the Washington­based Ethics and Public Policy Center, a con­servative foundation headed by Lefever. The center dis­tributed material promQting infant formula to Third 
World mothers. 
Marketing Club President Paul Uritis. who hosted Scanlan, said he believes the information available for students is one-sided. "It's hard to believe that all the allegations INFACT is making are true," he noted. "Whatever unjust marketing practices were made are being atoned for. They have stopped promoting in the mass media. 
Uti tis believes that the degree of student apathy will "make or break" the boycott. "I think student apathy is a serious problem at Notre Dame. he said. Before. there was always SOfllething to fight for, something that af. fected our personal routine. We seem to be experienc­ing the doldrums." 
Observer notes____:,_____, 
In the article "Poets Haas, Pinsky express own styles," which appe~red in yesterday's Observer, poet Robert Hass' name was incorrectly spelled. We apologize for this error. 


~~­
Design Editor ...................... Maura Murphy Design Assistants .......... Mike McCaughey Layout Staff................................. Mike Quill 
joe Flowers Typesetters......................... Raymond lnglin 
Mike MacLennan News Assistant ....................... Dave Sarphit: Copy Editors ......................... Michele Dietz 
Maureen O'Toole Features Layout .................... Greg Swiercz Sports Copy Editor ................... Ed Konradi Typist.. ..................................... Laura Degnan ND Day Edltor .....................joe Musumeci Ad Design .................................. John & Muff Pbotograpber ............................ John Macor Beth Prezio Rachel Blount 
Guest Appearances ......................... jumpin' 
joe Dolan joe Trainor Spacey The Blue Shimrocks The End 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnda y and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col­lege Subscnptlons may be purchased tor $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer. P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
The Observer li; a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved. 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lnct1ana 46556 
THENROTC 

SCHOLARSHIPPROGRAM. 
TUITIONPLUS $2,000 EXPENSE MONEY ANDA NAVY OFFICER COMMISSfON 
ThA two-year NROTC 2 year Scholarship Pt:ogram offers tuition Plus two years of expense money that's ~1orth up to $~, JOO, and the chal 1~nge of becoming a Navy Officer with early responsibilities and decision-making auchority. 
During your last two years in col"lege the Navy pays for tuition, uniforms, all textbooks and an allowance of $100 a month for up to 20 months. Upon graduation and completion of requirements, you become a Navy Officer, with important· decision-making responsibilities. 
Call your Navy representative for m9re information on this challenging program. 
NROTC UNIT, UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 239-6442 
NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST 
· 
( 
• 
~ 


' 1 
I 

A 
The Observer Wednesday, february 24, 19~2-page 3 
On Latin America 


Lernoux lectures on journalism 
ByANNEKWAK countries, as well as a generally uni­was exposed to poor economic con­News Staff nformed public in the United States ditions. human rights violations, and as far as foreign affairs arc concerned corruption in many South American 
Tht· need for responsible U.S. According to Lenwux, Americans countries, as wcll the major con­journalism in Latin America and the do not understand the ·many cerns in El Salvador and Nicaraqua. importance of tht; role of the U.S. in problems in Latin American 
She explained that there is much 

hdping Latin American coulllrks countries because they are just not activity to be reported and inves­was addrc~scd by journalist Penny adequately informed, and because tigated, but because of press laws 
Lt·rnoux at a lc1.:turc yesterday in much of the journalism is biased. 
which make it nearly impossible to llaycs llcaly auditorium. While reporters print information' expose the wrongdoings of govc£n·

Ms. Lcrnoux is an award winning from U.S. officials, they usually 
rnents, most reporters refuse to 

juurnalist, tht· Latin American cor­refuse to interview foreign officials tou<:h the stories. We definitely
rt·spomknt for tht· National Cath­to find out their side of the story, need more invcstigativc and in­olic Reporter, and the author of -a according to Lcrnoux. Thus, what is terpre_tive reporting, as far as Latin 
book t·ntitled Crr of the rt·ported is oftt·n not objective. She American problems are concernt:d,
People, which is <.:onccrncd with the stared, We must stop thinking of she commented. 
~truggk for human rights in Latin Latin A;mericans as 'n'o accounts' 
Amt·rica. who don't deserve to be inter­
Throughout her lccture, Ms. Ler­noux stressed the importance ofL1.:rnoux stn·sst·d the fact that viewed or questioned. 
using the power and intlucnce ofthetht•rt· is a lack' of information Ms. · Lernoux lived in Latin U.S., to improve · Latin Americanavailabk to tho,.,t· in Latin Amcrkan America ti.>r several years, where _she problems. She suggested the need . ti>r responsible journalists who show more care for the ethics of 

their profession, namely, fair, ob­jective-rcpo'rting·. She also advised that American journalists should be more concerned with morality in 
Hispanic authors forum 
comes to Notre Dame 

By CAROL CAMP 
StaffReporter 
Thirty-two llispanic authors will' discuss "Tht· Prest·nt and Future of llispank Literature" in the Interna­tional Forum of Jlisp~nic Authors at Notre Damt· on March~ and 3. 
According to Notre Dame profes-. sor and co-organizer Jose Anadon, tht· forum participants, tt·n from Spain and twenty-two from cight Lnin Amt·rican nations, "represent tht· vanguard of Hispanic literature today." Each author is well-known in his rt·spt·t·tive nation, and his works haw hc<:n translated into otht·r lan­guagcs and sniously studil'd hy st·holars of other countrks. · 
Many of tht· writt·rs and literary t·ritics partidpating in this event have participated in similar forums in Mexico, Vcnczud a, tht· Canary Is­lands, and tht· lJnivcrsity of Califor­nia_,( Bcrkeley ). ThiS gathering marks tht· second ti.mc that such a divl'fst' 
group of llispanic authors has mct in 
tht· United States. 
The forum's occurrcncc at Notrc t Damc is, in Anadon·s words,"tht·.end prodtiCt ofa long process." The idea ti>r such an event had becn dis­cusst•d for two years among faculty 
I· 
~ members and Mt:xican author Ar-. turo Azuela. When Azuela came to Notre 
Dame in the fall of 19HO and again in 19H I to _teach mini-courses in modern Hispanic literature the ideas , .. began to materialize. The upcoming forum is the end result of this pnKcss. Additionally, Azuela's ex­perience as Vice Minister of Culture for the govcrnment of Mexico will be invaluable to both ti.>rum or· 
Max Lerner 
comes to Notre Dame 
Syndicated t•olumnist :\lax Lcrner will lecture in the University of Notrc Dame's Architecture Auditorium Mar. I 0 (Wed.) at 7:00 p.m. 
Lerner's public knure. sponsored by the Dcpartment of American Studies, marb the .2Sth anniversary of the publit·ation of his well-known "America as a Civiliza­tion." The lecturc is \.'lltitled, "Is Amcrica a Dying Civilization?" 
Lerner was born in .\ltnsk. Russia in 1902 and emigrated to the Unitt·d States five years later. lie holds law and social science degrees from Yale University, Washington University, and the Ruben Brooking Graduate School of ~onomics and Govern­ment. 
journalism than with glamour and money. Playwright J1egan TeriJ' led discussion in a U'orkshop as part of
ganizers and participants. 

the Sophomore Literary Festi1•al. See related story• rm page I. (photo
Forum participants will give As far as change-in. Linin American 
by Beth Prezio) 
presentations in round table ses­countries is concerned, Letnoux sions which will be open to thc advocates nonviolent negotiations 
~.............................................................................1
public on the following three topics: ratht·r than military intervention. "New Models in the Hispanic Novel" She spoke favorably on the Church's' ( I 0:00-1 I :30 a.m.); "Latin Amcrican involvement in foreign problems, ~ THENAZZannounces ~ and Spanish lntluences on the New but stresst·d a plea for stronger Generation of Narrators" ( 3:00-4:00 moral and ethical views on the part I The 1982 ~ p.m.); and "Unity and Diversity of of the U.S. Hispanic Literature" ( 4:30-';:30PM) She stated, In order to begin to MUSIC COMPETITION!
I I 
Each session will bc held twice, solve tile problcms in Latin and all sessions will occur in. the American countries, we must t1rst I March 5&6 I Centcr for Continuing Education. care about human life for l'thical as There is no confcrencc fcc, and all well as practical reasons. Change is ! ! art· encouraged to attend this event. possible, but we must have hopc. ~~ Applications now available at the i 
ND Student Union Office  ~  
WASHINGTON D. C. CLUB  ~  Duebyl:OOpmSun.Feb.27  ~  
Sign-ups for the springbreakbus will heThursday,Fehruary25  II  PRIZES! PRIZES! PRIZES! 1st $150 4th $75  II  
from 7:30-9:30 pmonthe first  ~  2nd $125  5th $50  ~  
floor LaFortune. $70.00round trip is neededto reservea seat.  ~ I  3rd $100  ~ I  

~ Have Questions? Call John 3 323 ~ 
~ . ~
............................................................................... 

FATHER HESBURGH unQQ gay u\Jlagg {;ott tlte u\iCO...:... guUC CRtght to ~~ CQub Hl gactr.ed ffieatr.t Chutr.clt. 8'hutr.sday. C(Jebtr.uatr.y 25, 19g2 at 5:15 rm. 

Mandatory Meeting 
Thurs., Feb. 25 at 7:00 in LaFortune 1st Floor 
BUS LEAVES MAR. ·12 ROUNDTRIP-$110 BRING MONEY TO MEETING 
~'-lJ~~~~1.cD:li "J:/:D :;F~~:r Fri., 9:00--? 
party rescheduled from Thurs~ 919 So. Bend Av. ALL AREA PEOPLEINVITED! 



The Observer Wednesday, February 24, 1982 -page 4 
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE 
• CIFAS UNIVERSITY • 
"CLASSES TAUGHT IN ENGLISH" 
The University is located in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. Our Medical Progra;m is tailored after the traditional U.S. Model of Medical Education and is fully accredited. 
OPENINGS AVAILABLE "Our school is listed in Vol. 35, No. 4 of the WHO chronicle published by the World Health Organization." 
For e write to: Cu-A::» UNIVt:H::»II T ::»\..MUUL ur-tvtt:UICINE 
DEAN OF ADMISSION'S 12820 WHITTIER BLVD., SUITE 29 • WHITTIER, CALIF 90602 




Tues. Feb. 23 Wed.Feb.l4 

rue QUeST OfTHe secReT ctTY 





·· sweepsTAKes 
heres a ciry in Eur?Pe-you could travel there free. 


So unravel these nddles and 'ts k/Y\1
' uncoverr ~J· 
Addrn~s'--------------------------------­
·Cicy,__________S,wtate"'----­
.­
TO PLAY THE GAME: 
Answer each of the riddles that will appear here each week in February. Write your answer in the blanks below each riddle. The letters with numbers below them corres­pond to the numbered spaces in tire master key. As you fill in the letters of the master key, you will be spelling the name and location of a secret city in Europe. Send us the solution, and you and a friend could win a trip there, free. 
TO ENTER SWEEPSTAKES: 
1. 
NO PURCHASE NECESSARY. 

2. 
Grand Prize consists of two regular round-trip economy airfares to the secret city, 30-day Eurail passes, American Youth Hostel passes, two backpacks and $1000 in cash. 

3. 
Cut out master key for use as official entry blank or use 3" x 5" card. Print your answer along wilh your name and address. Mail to Secrel City Sweepstakes, P.O. Box 6018, Norwalk, CT 06852. 

4. 
The first 1 ,000 correct respondents will receive a poster as an entry prize. . 


5. All entries must be received by 3/15/82. Enter as often as you -wish, but each entry must be mailed separately. 
6. 
A random drawing of all correct entries will be held 3/22182 by the Highland Group, an independent judging organization whose decision is final. 

7. 
Sweepstakes void where prohibited, taxed or otherwise restricted. 

8. 
All pot~ntial winners may be required to sign an affidavit of eli­gibility to verify compliance with the rules within 30 days of receipt of same. For a list of prize winners, send self-addressed, stamped envelope to Secret City Sweepstakes c/o Highland Group, 16 Knight St., Norwalk, C'r 06851. 


' 
~eNeRAL fOODS® INTeRNATIONAL COffees. MAKe ~000 COMPANY.
©General Foods Corpora!ion 1982. 
At HPC meeting 


-Provosttoaddress k~g issue 
By KATIE MCDONNELL 
StaffReporter 
Provost Timothy O'Meara will at· tend next week's Hall President's Council meeting to address ques­tions arising from the keg proposal . rejection, in addition to other stu­dent concerns, it was announced at the Hall President's Council meeting last night. 
Rectors, as well, will meet Mon­
day night to discuss the keg issue. 
In response to a, growing concern 
for alcohol abuse, the month of 
March has been designated as Al­
cohol Awareness Month, according 
to Student Bodv president-elect 
Lloyd Burke. . ' ­
At the weekly HPC meeting last night in Walsh Hall, Burke ~n­nounced that Notre Dame will join with all of South Bend in observing this resolution, which has been or­ganized through Alcoholics · Anonymous. 
Included on the monthly list ofac­
tivities are a series ofprograms to be 
held at the Madison Center in South 
Bend, and also a lecture to be held in 
the Memorial Library auditorium. 
In connection with this an-
Zip._____ 

WHAT AM l? 
I work all day 
and through the dark_of night, 
So strong 
and yet so frail when love does leave, 
WhenLstop, 
I cause alarming fright, 
I swell with pride 
and cause achest to heave. 
.1:L ~ -'-­
2 14 11 10,6 
(Answer to Week #3 Riddle: TEACHER) 
---..c~-­

nouncement, HPC Chairman Mike Martin encouraged all new hall presidents to read a statement issued by the HPC last semester on the subject of alcohol abuse, so that they may be fully i~formed for this project. 
In addition, all HPC members were encouraged to join the Student Senate in attending a meeting Satur­day, with· an independent study group who is here to view campus life. At the request of Student Body President Don Murday, this group will visit <Jonns, talk to students and then get the opinions of student leaders at this meeting to formulate a report_pn life at Notre Dame. 
It was also ;v1nounced that Farky Hall won the Andy Sowder Memorial Trophy for the month and was awarded a plaque by the HPC for its display of the best hall spirit on campus. Along with its other so­cial events, Farley residents par­ticipated in· a series of nightly activities Jan. 17-25 for their annual "Pop Farley Week." 
These events included an all-hall 
mass, a "Farley Night at the Nazz," an­
'all-hall dinner at the North Dining Hall, and ending with a Screw-Your· 
Roommate dance. 
GINEUL F0006 

·to allies and would be "imprudent" in light ofthe recent Polish situation. 
\ 
·In other HPC news, it was an­nounced that a representative· for the Nestle corporation will be on campus today, tomorrow and Friday, in connection with last week's debate and in anticipation of the boycott vote scheduled for March 2. This representative hopes to address students personally through question/answer sessions to be held in any dorm who would like to have her speak. · 
Also discussed was the Health Ad­
vispry Board which has been or­
ganized t.hrough Student 
government in an effort to evaluate 
both the'infirm-:rt'y and the NO Stu­
dent Health Serv .ices. Coming as a 
response to complaints concerning 
the general health care offered, this 
board will consist of a representa­
tive from every dorm and a campus 
chairperson to make sUI~ that all of 
these objections are heard. 
• • • Plays 
-----------.,...--­
continued from page 1 
material can be put into a short space oftime. Choreography can be utilized." 
Terry has received the Silver Medal of "Distinguished Contribu­tion to an Service in the American Theater." She has also won the Stan­ley Drama Award and the Obie Award for Best New Play in 1969-70 forApproaching Simone. 
She nas also served on the Theater Panel of the National Endowment for the Arts, the Nebraska Arts Coun­cil, the Ford Foundation, and the Rockefeller Foundation. 
Six of her plays including Keep Tightly Closed in a Cool, Dry Place, Calm Dow11 Mother, Ex-Miss Cop­per Queen on a Set ofPills, and the three presented last night have been produced at Notre Dame during the last two years. 
Terry is currently playwright-in­residence at the Omaha Magic Theater. 

. . . Focus , 
continuedfrom'page 1 
I. 
available to the SSS have been ob­tained in one~ of two ways: 1) The man has reported hiltllself or 2) A third party source (i.e. neighbor, friend, associate) has reported the man. The "Privacy Act;" forbids the SSS access to other agencies' social security numbers at this time. 
The SSS sends an immediate warn­
ing letter to each of these non­
regis.trant names it receives. If no 
further· information is r,eceived by 
the SSS within 1 5 days, the name is 
then turned over to the U.S. attorney 
in the person's local district. The At­
torney then sends the man another 
letter allowing hiim another letter 
stating that he has only 20 days 
trefore prosecuton may begiri. At 
least three final warning lett,ers are 
known to have been sent out by the 
District Attorney in the Northern In­
diana DistriCt. 

The bo-ttom lin<t_ is that the registration · process from local claim's boards to active legal ·prosecution is already in full swing. Unlike four months ago, a young 
mah can-no ionger cite its ques-" 
tionable future as a valid r'eason for 
ignoring all possible implications. As 
a spokesman for NIBSC~ said, 
"Basically, there's nothiing ieft for 
them to do but declare a national 
evergency ami start conscripting." 
Reagap aids maintain that the con­tinuation of registrat~n would simply send out the "wrong" signal 



Wednesday, February 24, 1982 -page 5 



Editorials 
J ­
Budget cuts crippling education 
Ronald Reagan is a man who control. the current 9 per <.:t:lll to me gumg soley un acaoem1c merit, but w1ih an 
JennyPiUs 

doesn't know the value of an educa-"Avoid" is a pretty loaded word. commercial rate, and graduate stu­eye on ability to pay. Many students 
tion. Perhaps it might be replaced with an dents will be totally eliminated from will be forced to leave school, or 
Unlike nuclear preparedness and equally loaded phrase: "managing to the program. As the Pell Grants, 1 transfer from private institutions to 
American intervention in foreign af­ignore." A fair number of those SEOGs, and to some extent NDSLs, public universities, placing a further 
fairs education is obviously not one federal controls exist to ensure are intended for the very poor, GSLs burden on state budgets. 
help ot low interest stuucnt loans isof his primary concerns. quality ~nd equitable education to the are mainly taken out by students with To bring me effects of the going to be much more difficult.

He was anti-intellectual as gover­nation's children. I would question middle class backgrounds. Once proposed cuts closer to home, one It's naive to think that you won't nor of California; he made annual just what federal controls local again that sector will be made to bear o_nly has to look at the situation at be affected, that you will get yourthreats about cutting the budget ofthe school boards could avoid. Title IX? a large pan of Reagan's fiscal policy. Notre Dame. With 60 per cent of the loan, because when the money isUniversity of California, threats Education of the handicapped? Non­It's true that the student loan students on some son of financial aid simply no longer made available,rebutted by the legislature, and is on discrimination? Certainly the Bob programs have been poorly ad mini­(grants, loans, campus employment) you won't. Will it take the reality ofrecord with several denigrating Jones einbarassment hasn't been for­stered in the past. We all have heard Notre Dame cannot but be negatively no loan money to get a reaction out of
remarks about universities and stu­gotten already. stories of the countless numbers of affected. Take a moment to think students, who seem at timesdents, for example, "the state should I,>erhaps the replacement plan is doctors, dentists, and lawyers who about how many of your friends, if oblivious to the machinations of their not subsidize academic curiousity," not indicative of a plot to undermine have defaulted ori loans, we all have not yourself, take out student loans in government? Perhaps it will, but let's as well as "if we've got to break elementary education. Perhaps it's heard of or know people who took order to meet the difference between hope it does not have to come to that. 
some heads to shut up the students, just the logical extension of Reagan's out loans they didn't need and in­tuition costs and what they can af­Despite what Mr. Reagan apparently let's get it over with." New Federalism. But what of vested in a high yield money market ford. coming up with an extra 2500 thinks, an investment in education isAnd it would follow, then, as no Reagan's plan to drastically cut funds funds. It seems unintelligent to me to dollars a year (multiplied by the num­an investment in the future, and if thesuprisc what Ronald Reagan is plan­all6cated to various agencies provid­simply cut funding rather than at­ber of siblings possibly involved) goal of the administration is toning to do to the cJucational system ing loans and grants to college stu­tempt to improve the administration may be an impossibility. And for 'renew' America, it would seem that
in the United States. His plans to dis­dents? of the various programs. those who are graduating this May, ensuring the educational oppor­
mantle the Department of Education Reagan· s proposed 1983 budget So, the result? Some universities planning to attend graduate school, tunities of the nation would be theand cutback student loans, among calls for a 25 per cent-cut in aid to haye begun to accept applicants not financing those studies without the place to start.
other things, have caused education­students and universities. Programs al spokesman to claim Reagan heads affected include Pell Grants, . Sup­"the most anti-education administra­plemental Edcational Opportunity tion of the century.'' Department of Grants (SEOG), National Direct Stu­Education Secretary, Terrel Bell, in dent Loans (NDSL), and Guaranteed an administration orchcstraied Student Loans (GSL), programs par­su1cidc, hopes to replace the Depart­ticipated in by some 7 million college 
ment with the independent federally student. 
supported foundation. This founda­The GSL program will be most 
tion, the argument goes, would give dramatically effected. Students will 
local school boards access to federal have to pass far stricter tinancial 
funds while "avoiding" tight federal criteria. interest rates will rise from 

P.O. Box Q 
WHC Coordinator comments on debate 
Dear Editor; As coordinator of too responsible to be merely, ··... 
ND-SMC World Hunger Coalition, · repeating each other," as Dr. Jack­
I would like to thank the representa­son asserted during the debate. Nor 
tive from the Infant formula Action can the endorsements of such or­
Coalition and Nestle for their par­ganizations be dismissed by simply 
ticipation in last Thursday's debate. stating, "They are wrong," as Dr. 
However, I· must also state that the Jackson said of the American Public 
World Hunger Coalition was not Health Association. · 
entirely pleased with the substance of Nestle has already put forth con­


The nuclear criminals 
the debate. WHC had hoped that the siderable effort on campus to defeat 
debate would proceed. in such a way the Notre Dame boycott renewal 
that the positions of both of the par­referendum. This effort has taken the 
of sea and land animals would be in­ticipating parties would have been form of telephone contact with stu­
In many journals now on the 
terrupted. Insects would survive, clearly articulated ami defended on dents and of direct-contact solicita­
library shelves or at newsstands, GarryWiUs
journals both scholarly and popular, and their numbers increase, after 
their own merits; unfortunately, this tion at locations such as the Senior 
their natural predators were killed or was not the result. From conversa­Bar. The World Hunger Coalition is 
the consequences of nuclear war are 
being seriously considered for the thinned out. A number of blasts 
Outrider 

first time in years, would lower soil temperature. The debate, I gathered that many of them not have the funding or personnel to 
tions with those who attended the a student organization which does 
ecosystem that it took millions of left with a sense of growing confu­compete in a lobbying effort with the 
Perhaps the most sobering articles 
years to build up woud be undone in a sion, rather than of claritication. multinational Nestle S.A. However, 
are those written by Jonathan Schell 
day. conceivable exchange, or for joining One position that I would like to it is the rcsponibility of the Hunger 
for the New Yorker. Schell, with 
The plight of survivors, who in any such exchange. clarify is that of the ND-SMC World I Coalition to make ever} possible ef­
scientitic thoroughness, traces the 
would not know whether they were Some think it moral to forswear a Hunger Coalition. The WHC con­fort to inform the students of Notre 
probable· effects of nuclear exchange 
dying or not, is as horrifying to con­nuclear first strike, but defend the tinues to support the international Dame. For three years, Notre Dame 
at various levels. He argues that it is 
template as the numbers of the dead. "morality" of a retaliatory strike. If 
boycott of Nestle products. There arc has participated· in the international planet if Russia and America use In the wake of other disasters -­Russians should attack America, are reasons to do so whi..:h cannot .be boycott of Nestle products. The even pan of their thousands of tloods, for instancce, or eanh4uakcs we to wipe out millions of innocent ignored. The U.S. House of WHC believes that the boycou is a nuclear weapons. --looting and rioting have broken Russian citizens, men, women and 
legitimate and productive form of But even a smaller exchange than out.A nuclear disaster would dwarf children? Why? for revenge? That is 
literally possible to end life on the 
Representatives' estimate that one million children per year die as a protest whose aim is to preserve that needed to end life would 3et in all such earlier scenes. Police and morality? In self-defense? But each medical services would be so act we add to such an exchange
result of improper usc of infant for­human lives. This is not train a sequence of meteorological.. 
mula is an estimate which demands emotionalism or heated rhetoric. oceanographic, agricultural and 
strained as to be, for most purposes, wguJd recoil upon us in terms of the 
attention. The endorsement of the Children arc dying from infant for­biological disasters that wguld dis­non-existent. The dead would go un­damage done to earth's ecosystems. buried. Animals would forage. We would destroy ourselves for the
boycott hy organizations such as the ll)Ula misuse; even the Congress of rupt life at a civilized level for the 
American Public Health Associa­the United States says so. The World survivors of mere blast or first radia­Imagine going up to such sur­high moral goal of destroying others. 
tion, the American Medical Stu­Hunger Coalition urges the students tion. vivors· and saying, "We did it all to Even to consider such an act is 
dent's Associ~tion. the UAW. of Notre Dame to support the boycott Nuclear weapons would deplete 
protect you, to keep you free." The despicable. It is a crime to build or possess which
Maryknoll Fathers and Brothers. and in the referendum election. the ozone shield, within whose obscenity of such a remark would al­such weapons -­many others is also an important fac­Francis D' Eramo protective envelope evolution took most justify the murder that would be makes most of us Americans tor. These organizations are certainly ND-SMC World Hunger Coalition place on this planet. The food chain its probable response. There is no criminals. 
Editorial Hoard
==Ihe_-ObserYer== 
Editor-in-Chief........ ....................john McGrath Foun~ed November 3, 1966 
Executiw News Editor... .... ........... . Kelli Flint Sports Editor .......................... . Skip Desjardin 
The Observer is· an tndependent newspaper published by the students of the News Editor............................. David Rickabaugh Photo Editor.........................................John Macor University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily SMC Executit'e Editor........... Mary Agnes Carey Editorials Edttor.......................Anthonv Walton· reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­~MC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico features Editor ......................._Gregory Swicrcz ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views Department Managers of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola Production Manager...................Michacl Monk
the free ~pression of varying opinions on campus, throu&h l.ctters, ii encour~ed. 
Controller.............................................joe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennar Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen Systems Manager ............•..............Bruce Oaklc"j'
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
-----------*­




dropped out of the Univirsity of Chicago after attempting suicide, and fi11.ds happiness ad security by rekindling an old romance. Anthony· then goes home to Sparta Minnesta he and his parents decide that 11e should spend some time in a psyc­
hiatric hospital in New York. A very 

harshness of reality in the sixties. sensitive young man, Anthony is The story begins with the plagued by the thought that his protagonist, Anthony Rossi, taking a friend Thomas is suffering in Viet train to see 9is childhood sweet­Nam. This and his insecurity with 
heart,Julia, in Minneapolis. He has women make Anthony an excellent candidate for psychiatric help. He is eventually cured ofhis maladies and returns home. The ending of this novel is interesting and to describe it here would spoil the book's effect. 

As I readAs Life Passes, I couldn't help thinking aboutJ.D. salinger's Catcher in the Rye. Anthony, like Holden Caufield, is a very troubled person. Yet, he does resolve his in­ner conflicts. This novel is interest­ing because its author, Mr. Maturi, 
. makes some pertinent comments about the challenges which face any young adult. I think this book says some worthwhile things, but the way in which it does so is silly. I'm suf'e everybody has read pieces of literature that are supposed to con­tain meaningful messages. Well, no one will have trouble discovering the essence ofthis book's monitions. For instance, in the second chapter Anthony is engrossed in thought while visiting the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago. He is reflecting upon his attempted suicide and lamenting his friend's misery in VietNam when a kindly old woman approaches him and says, "I sense that you are easily hurt by life and bewildered by its pain and suffering." 
I must be fair and admit that the infection ofsuch dialogue .is not as abrupt as I have implied above. The reader is introduced to each-situa­tion which induces a character to say such mushy, sickly-sweet words. The dialogue ofAufje Passes is its greatest flaw. The reader is told ex­actly how each character feels, and it takes little imagination to create an idea ofwhat each character is like. .\1any of the romantic lines in this novel remind me ofthe love scenes in 'a Randolph Scott western, which are totally ridiculous. 
Still, I enjoyed readingAs Life Passes. I wanted to find out what would happen to Anthony, Julia, and Thomas, the major characters. Mr. 
Maturi makes some keen observ·a­.tions oflife which any reader can identify with. Ifyou can overcome the sugary dialogue, As Life Passes is good, light reading. 
Wednesday, February 24, 1982 -page 6 
Syburg directs The Wild Duck 
n February 26, the Notre DameO /Saint Mary's Theatre will present the opening ofThe Wild Duck by Henrik Ibsen. The show will play in Washington Hall on the 

with the world, therefore, one must 
change it.' The other side says 'just 
change yourself." 
First published on November I 1, 
1894, The Wild Duck premiered in 
Bergen, Norway onJanuary 9, 1885. 
Before its completion Ibsen wrote 
to a close friend: 
"I have said everything I wanted to say; and I don't think it could 
have 
been said better...lt takes place 
entirely within the confines of 
family li}e. I dare say it will 
arouse some. discussion; hut it 
can't offf!nd anyone." 
The play, originally performed in five acts, has been combined into'"' three acts. The first setting is in the house ofHaaken Werle, a wholesale merchant. Here the audience is in­t'roduced to the wealthy environ­ment ofthe Werle family. The remaining scenes are set in the scant dwelling of the Ekdals. These con­trasting environments exemplify a 
Family's dependance on "illusions" that are common to all factions of society. 1 
The Wild Duck, a work ofmodern classic drama, is a melange of tragic and comic instan'ces that balance each other to ptoduce a rich charac­terization ofFamily lifestyle. "Even though the play contains many com­ic scenes,",concluded Sybur:g, "the finale is anything but humorous!" 
The curtain for The Wild Duck is at 8:00p.m. Admission is S2. 50 for students and faculty; 113.00 for general admission.-Everyone is invited to attend. 

NotreDame cainpus and will run February 27, March 4,5, and 6. 
Ibsen's play deals with the con­temporary family lifestyle and focuses on the Ekdal family. It depicts the dreams and illusions of the Ekdals and an inescapable past that haunts them. When an old friend-of the family ( Gregers Werle) returns home after 16 years, he at­tempts to unnerve the family's stable lifestyle by assessing his own idealis­tic values upon them. His inquisitive actions and probing accusations threaten the very existence of the Ekdals as a family. 
Directing The Wild Duck is Professor Frederick W. Syburg. In his twenty-eighth year ofteaching in the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Cooperative Department ofCom­munication and Theatre, Syburg has directed productions ranging from Shakespeare to Shaw and Moliere to Miller. "The Wild Duck is essentially a tragicomedy," stated Syburg,"The two leading male characters represent the two sides ofthe romantic personality -the goal of the romantic being self-realization. One side says 'something's wrong 
Mob scenes take Place before tnovie 
I 
could have sworn the movie started at eleven o'clock. That's what I thought I had read in the Observer, anyway, so my friends and I got to the Engineering Auditorium in what we figured would be ample time to get seats, ten-fifty. There wasn't a very long line, and we sighed in relief. We wouldn't have to fight for seats. 
The movie was "For Your Eyes Only," and was being shown in Emil Hall as usual. I had never seen it, and although I don't like Sheena Easton, I do like Bond movies, so I and four friends decided to drop into the final showing for fun. We stood outside the closed doors, and we could see people inside waiting for the auditorium it­selfto open. 
, Eleven o'clock arrived and the line had not started to budge as yer. Behind us a volatile crowd of movie patrons had gathered, and around us, the air began to become rather cold. 
Anyone who has ever at-
­tended a flick at Emil Hall knows that in winter, the area directly below the doorway to the building is the worst place to be when the crowd is large and impatient. 
Cathy, one of the girls in our group, thought quickly."Maybe we'd better go inside," she sug­' gested. . We pulled open the doors, letting in gusts ofcold air, much to the enjoy~1ent of the people inside. "Boy, I'm sure glad you guys opened the doors." someone said. "It was starting to get hot in here~· 
Our timing was perfect. No sooner had we got inside than the first barrage ofsnowballs began to bombard the walls outside. people in the back ofthe line, which now looked to be several miles long, had opened fire. A state ofpanic arose. and the crowd started to forge en 
·masse into the building. I had just turned around to tell my friend Patty what a nice coat she had on when I was suddenly swept offmy feet and carried along by the frenzied crowd. 
"Close the door!" someone shouted. 
Snowballs hurtled through the doorway, causing girls to scream and guys to swear. The throng continued to pour into the building, and my arms were plastered at my sides because of the proximity of human life, now at an extreme. I turned to my left and met face-to­face with a tall sophomore. I couldn't think ofanything else to do, so I introduced myself. The crowd shifted again, and this time I met a 
See MOB, page 7 

, ­
...,. 

-~---­

The Observer Features Section_ 
Wednesday, February 24, 1982-page 7 
·~illS ~~Mi 

Are you listless? 
D
o you feel buried hy a pile of textbooks? Is your social life lt:ss than social? Docs it resemble life ofany form? Do you sometimes fed like transferring, not out of the school. but out of the universe? 
Sae C. Flynn 
Wdl, you are not alone. You ask, 
"What can I do? Where can I go? Is 
there any hope for me?" The 
answer~ to these qucstitlns are lots, 
lots ofplaces, and lots. You say "Lots 
is a very vague answer. You don't 
really know what you arc talking 
about." You may be right. but Idon't 
think so. 
I have a plan. I call it my "Things To Do -List 'H2". Last year was not very inspiring and I had a list called "Things Left Undone -List 'H l." It was a very long list. Start a list like mine. Think about and keep it wth you l(>r a few days, so if you think of somt.·thing you would like to do, you can write done. Put your list ncar your desk so you can sec it, that is, if you arc one of those people who do work. Try not to llllllK 01 your desk as the lead hall which you arc 
Trivia Quiz XVII 
I 
had some fun with last week's trivia quiz, and I hope you did too. Here are the an~wers ofthe 1981­19H2 trivia st.·ssion: 
I. "Somewhere Down the Road" hy Harry Manilow differs from all his 

preVIOUS -i'i RPM ballads (since latt.• 
I975) hecaust.· it doe~ not have the 
huniliar k(y l'hangc.: at tht· end. 
(Listen again, if you do not bdicvt.· 
it.) 
.2. The two new al't~ who have en· 
tcrcd into the top tt.·n I.Ps during 
I9H.2 are the (io-<io's.( with Beaut)' 
ami/he Beat )and Quartcrtlash · 
(with Quarterflasb). 
3. 
The Olll' non-Top 20 singk from 1/llnfideWy wa~ (c) "Don't Lt.-t llim Go." 

4. 
Ignored alhu.ms by well-known acts: (a) Ringo Starr -Stop ami Smdl the Roses; (h) :\kat Loaf­/Jead Ringer; (c) Blat:k Sabbath ­.Wob Rules; (d) Steve :vi iller Band­Circh• ofLm,e. 


'i. Tht.• only album to hit number 
one in 19H I without hdp from a Top 
40 single was For Those About to Rock We Salute You by AC/DC (it ~as number!?Ill' !!Je laM weck of 
I<)HI -and lite first two weeks of 
I 9H2 ).I 
6. The "swing-music" LP by an act not normally associated with swing 

music wasjoe}ackson's}umpin' jive by Joe jackson. 
7. Thc country LP by an act not normally associated with that gcnrc wasAimost Blue b}: Elvis Costt:llo and the Attractions. 
H. The tirst commercial rt:lcase of 

Springsteen's "Santa Claus Is Com­1 ing to Town "was on the albumin 
Hannony2. 
9. The group who is batting thret·­tiJr·its-last-four on the 45 charts as far as number ones arc concerned is Daryl Hall and John Oates; their thrc.:e chart-toppers were "Kiss on My List," "Private Eyes," and "I <:an't Go ti>r That"; the one that misst.·d was tht.• number tivc hit "You Make My Dream~." 
I0. This album has spent some­thing like 30 weeks in the top ten, and only one at number onc ­Escape byJourney. 
Now on to this wcck's qui2.. I don't know ifyou have cvcr noticed, but quite a fcw!oc~ songs featurc a countdown at the beginning. Bascd upon the information givcn, name 
rhcsc hit songs by title and artist. 
I. "Twooo, a-thrcc, a· Four...Twooo, a-thrce, a-

chained to for a few hours a day. Think ofit as your very own motiva­tion and inspiration station, or the 
plane which maintains your cosmic 
energy, whichever fits for you. 
Ifyou find your list looking like this .... IN 19H21 WANT TO.. 
•Lose 96 pounds 
•Jog 43 miles per day 
•Get a 4.0 both scmestu~ 
•Quit 
smoking 

•stop 
drinking 

•Stop 
biting my nails 

• 
Learn to play the guitar 

• 
Become a black belt in Karate 

•Join 
a jogging dub 

• 
Learn sign language 

•Write 
a book 

•Get 
married 

• 
Bear eight children ( 4 sets of twins) 

• 
Meet 7,6H2 people 

•star 
in a Broadway show 

•Never 
say the word 'doorknob' again 


....you arc obviously a very highly motivated person, but you arc probably miserable. It is said that misery loves company, but most people don't go to parties to meet 

miserable people and to keep them 
company. Most people go to parties 
to meet happy people, doing things they enjoy and having a good time. Perhaps ifyou are ont: ofthe lonely, miserable people you should add "write a new list" to your list. 
When you write your new list, be realistic (note: Real-list-ie). Do not set your goals outside ofyour reach. It is true that anything fs possible, but if it were to all)lappt.·n at once, what would be left? Take it one step at a time. Maybe your list could read 
IN 1982 I WANT TO 

• 
Lose 5 pounds 

• 
Be a little more creative 

•Write 
to some old friends 


•Say 
"good morning" to a stranger every once in a while (even ifit is af­ternoon) 

•Remember 
to thank God for giving me eyes 

•Learn 
to like myself 

•Stop 
and smell the roses 



My "Things To Do -List 'H2" has only one thing on it. In 1982 I want to start taking my own advice. 
Four...Twooo, a-threc, a-Four..." 
2. 
"One, two, three, FOUR!"...(guitar solo )..."Well, she was..." 

3. 
(away from mike) "One, two, thrt.·c." (guitar solo )..."Turn it up"... (continued guitars)..." Big \Vhct:ls ..." 


4. "One, two, thrcc o'clock..." 
'i. 

"TEN!...NINE!...EIGHT!...SEVEN!...SIX ' FIVE!...FOUR! THREE! TWO! ONE!...( music and assorted "ah"s)..."You set my.." 
6. 
(in background) "And wc go!...Onc (beat) two (bcat)...(piano solo a laJcrry Lee Lcwis)..."Ah ah ah ah..." 

7. 
"Uno, dos...onc, two, trcs, quatro"...( ten chords, all the same, before vocals begin)... 

8. 
(virtually whispered) "Onc, two, three." (acoustic guitar even­tually joipcd by drums)..."Slow down, you..." 

9. 
"Onc and two and a-onc, two, three, four"...(intro ofabout 30 sectmds)..."I took my baby to a party last night..." 


1,0. "Onc...two...onc, two, three, four" (drummer beating drumsticks in time, beats drum on 'four')...(intro)..."Wcll I take.." 
·... Mob 

continuedfrom page 6 
guy who was clutching his daic's arm so that they wouldn't be 
separated. · 
It was now eleven-twenty, and I peered over the crowd, about six fcct to my right, and sawJohn and Stephanit:, the two others in our group. 
"I guess the movie docsn't start at t:levcm,1' I said. • _ 
"I guess not," John said as a snowball flew past his head.. 
Agaht the crowd shifted, and I finally ended up on the upper level ofthe outside lobby, about twcnty feet from where I and my friends had started offin the first place. Below the doors where we had once been, studcnts were !rti116cing bombed with snowballs. o'ne ofthem was a tall guy who I couldn't stand, so I savored the moment.. 
l'hc highlight ofthe commotion came whcn someone was hoisted onto the flat area above the tunnel-like doorway ofthe building. The multitude went wild, and the st9dent took advantage ofhis sudden popularity, jumping around like a gorillaand threatening to swing from the hanging-lamp. He p_syched up the crowd evch more, so much so that everyonc hissed when he descended from his perch. 
At eleven-thirty people began to file out from the pri()r showingof the movie, and I fished around in my hack pocket for my wallet, hoping it would still be there. Luckily, it was, scd yanked out a doliar in prcpration for entry into the auditorium. Little did I know that it would still be another fifteen minutes before I got in. 
Five minutes later the-line starred t~J move. The crowd went wild again. Elbows, shoulders, and knees edged their ways through the jungle ofpeople. and we moved as one large mass into the auditorium. A); I neared the auditorium door, the crowd became even more dense, and I struggled for air. 
"Send up a flare!" someone yelled. 

I was then rudely pushed into the person in front of me, and looking up, I noticed that it was the tall guy who had been standing under the doorway. The snow was still fresh in his hair. I dared not laugh. 
·when at last I gained access to the auditorium, I searched qukkly for any one ofmy friends, and sighted all four ofthem sittinM in a row ncar the wall. I joined them and waited for the movie to start. 
In front of me was the person who had been clutching onto his date's arm, but here he was, sans date. I found out that his namcwas Rob.' .
"Whcrt:'s your date, Rob?" I inquired. 
"I don.'t know," he answered. "I seem to have lost her." 
The lights went oil', prompting a hearty cheer from the audience. I 
thought I had hccn through a lot ofaction already but it was nothing compared with what James Bond had to encounter. When it had tinally ended and ~'C were leaving the building, I decided optimisti­cally tl\at rhc fi~m had been worth all the trouble. But I still didn't like Sheena Easton. 
I said goodbye to Rob, but he didn't hear me. He had found his date at last. ­"Where Wt.'rc: you?" he asked her. 
"I was sitting over on the right side, ncar the wall." 
"The right side? I was on the Icfi side! 
"Well, sorry." 
"Well, what did you think of the movk?" 
I left thcm to their discussion, an~ vowed ncvn to return to see the last showing ofan Emil Hall movie again. llut whc.:n tht.· midnight showing of"Ciockwork Orange" rolled around the next night, I just couldn't resist. · 

--·--------------­

~j)()1itS=l~)~f4.~~~·~~=S~~~~~===========~========W=e=d=n=es=d=~=,F=e=br-ru=a=~~~~4::1:~=8=~=-=~=a=~e:~=
By The Observer and The Associated Press 

Michigan basketball tickets are still available at the Students needing a ride to Steamboat Springs second floor ticket office at the ACC. The game will be held in the must attend a short meeting tonight at 6:45 p.m. about the Student Silverdome in Pontiac, Mich., on Sunday, March 7. Tickets are priced Union Colorado Ski Trip. It will be held in the lobby of the Student at $4 and $6. -The Observer Union on the second floor ofLaFortune. Any problems, call Ke'"vin at 
239-7605. -The Observer 
WSND staffersand staff members of The Observer will play a hockey game tonight at midnight at the ACC. The game is p,art ofa continuing challenge series in a number ofsports, each ofwhich The Notre Dame Rowing Club will hold a have shown why both report the results ofsports instead of playing mandatory meeting tomorrow night at 7:30p.m. at LaFortune's Little them. Agood time will be had by all, and all are welcome to enjoy the Theatre for all varsity and novice members. The spring trip and 
spectacle of totally inexperienced skaters trying to break each racing schedule will be discussed. A $50 deposit for the Texas trip other's faces. -The Observer and spring dues will be collected. -The Observer 
-The Observer will accept class;fieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, 
either in person or through the mail. 

Classifieds 


WHAT TEAM GOES FROM 1ST TO 3RD 
REWARD offered to anyone who can find tocla1m. me a ~nde to Ft. W!)lton Beach, or IN ONE WEEK? ANSWER: DILLON be we 
FOUND $40.00on Fri. Feb. 12. Call3828 Observer hockey players -good luck and 
sure to wear enough equipment.

I?ERSONALS 
HOCKEY ALUMNI 00GS WILL WIN
NOTICES 
anywhere 1n the Flonda panhandle. Will 

don't want anyone gett1ng 1n;ured. Con­share all usual. Call Tim at 6759. 
AGAIN 
.cerned Hired Hands Look1ng for a truly portable, yet powerful Thanks to all you PREPS and AN­
need nde to Nash1v1lle area weekend of personal computer? See The Osborne 1, To:~THE GANG THANKS for be1ng the
FOR RENT

OVERSEAS JOBS--Summer/year 'fiPREPS who made our part~y keen. Stay 
25-27. w111 share exp. CALL t87t. 64K. dual tOOK disk dnves, plus, $t400 best fnends a·g~rl could ever ask for. My worth of software. all for $1795. FOUR­
round. Europe. S. Amer.. Australia, As1a. tuned for the... next Keenan bash. 1 East-
more fun humans ing. Free 1nfo. Wnte IJC, BBox 52·1N4. Ava1lable for next school year and DESPERATELY need nde to North Jer­WAY COMPUTER PRODUCTS. (Across West should be allowed! \)still can't BELIEVE sey/NYC area for brea\s; anywhere on At from North Village Mall). 277-7720. 
All fields. $500·$1200 monthly. Sightsee­birthday was than 
summer--two five bedroom houses. 234-those presents! TAKE OFF! UUUGGHH!! 
Corona Del Mar. CA 92625. 
. ................!.. . 

2626. 80 1n NJ. W1ll shareusual. Dan at 8200. I love you all, Laura (alias-SW, AW. BW, 
. Cully & Duffy, 1The Soclsty lor Creative Anachronism LH. Wilma, Ma K, SG. a McCh1ck) P.S.
Looking for a truly portable. yet powerful, You g~rls are awesome.. REALLY! 
personal computer? See THE os­4 bdrm house for rent. North shore. $275 My Dad w1l kill me if I don·t get 2 GA"s for IS holdtng ari organtzattonal meeting on D1d anybody ever tell you all that you're
You'll be heanng from us soon. Your two 
mo. utilities Available the DePaul game! Call Mo 5t20 (SMC) Thursday (Feb.25) In LaFortune's Little GREAT?!
inc\ Summer complete software package. $1795. and/or fall 1982. Parkovash. c-:.11 Patty Theatre'at 7 p.m. All are welcome\ ............................................................... 
BORNE 1, 64K, dual 1OOK d1sk drives. Prepp1es. 
3193228735 call refunded I need a • ride to MIAMI or FT Bill You must have be"'en there when they LAUDERDALE, FLA for spnng break call FOURWAY COMPUTER PRODUCTS ·• said 1fs not the birthday that counts, 1fs(Across from North Village Mall). 277­
w~~t ·t~· ·g~ ·t~· ·th~ ··M~~~;~~~ ·s~·h·~~rt~~~ Goddess-· 
7720 Free rent;house for faculty for sum­Mike3242 the happy!'" You couldn't have made my mer:call Patty 3193228735 call refunded. birthday perfect! I can't believe 1
Concert. Will do aiiYth1ng to go ...including ' more
Where 'hast thou been of late? I m1ss

Ride needed to Connecticut -for sleep with you! Call Mitzie Burke-Sweater 
surviVed everyth1ng! Thanks agam. LoveCAMP COUNSELORS--Instructors 9344 . my Muppet Show Humor. and I miss JUSt wanted for prestige pnvate M1ch1gan boys talk1ng to you. I even m1ss you.

Available March 15 for rent, 4bedrobm. Spnng break. Leave Thurs. or Fri. Share ya, Wilma P.S. Will you st111'tove me when usual. Please call Bi/11 at 1626.
and Qlrls summer camps. Marc Seeger 2bathroom. maintance free house. $300 my And. runs out? 
FOZZIB

MANDATORY BOSTON BU .S Meet1ng I 'P.S. Can I still be an engineer? 
1765 Maple. Northfield. fL 60093. per month, plus $300 deposit. Call 233­
2547 for appointment. THURS. 2/25, 7 p.m. 1n LaFortune Little . The great books-the great m1nds. Meet Theatre. Bus leaves the t2lh, Ad Tnp, · ' ... ······························~·'·· ....... ... · ........ J 
faculty and students of the Program ofTYPING: EX·LEGAL SECRETARY. 272· hjjppy b-day,.Mell (see'i;orneone remem-,:

FOR SAtE

5337. Three bedroom house, furnished, on Refresh-$tt 0. Money due at meeting. Liberal SI!Ldies. Mon. March t, 6:46p.m.,
tiered your .b-day!) 
MUST ATTEND! 
R1vers1de Dnve: 2 baths. Call 272-8360. Grace Pit. 
Ideal for two sentors or two graduate stu­...........~··· Att: anyone tnterested in Amateur Radio. Antile 
MORRISON SCHWARTZER AND Audio Control 520B Equalizer and 3 way ....Bpston Bo<i!on Boston..•. 
THE TOXIC WASTES are com1ng to dents. t 0'" speakers w1th flu1d cooled tweeters. Need nde for two' to Boston or toere­
K9VR0 N.D. amateur radio council willNOTRE DAME....MARCH 3 AT THE call Bern1e a\239-7666 or 277-8869. abouts for spnng break. Call Colle~n at ACC .... Mornson 1s the proponent of the FURNISHED HOMES NICE AREA FOn 4t-4424or Jeb at 8649. 
hold 1ts first t982 meeting on Thursday Thanks for a great tilne in the B1g·Apple. thnving new of NEXT SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO NO Feb. 25. Please come to the ballroom 2nd , f Call rT)e an)11me the sky-box IS free. H1 to
genre For Sale: 1964 Chevy Schoolbus. Rblt. 
2773604 floor Lafortune at 7:00pm. All welcorQe. Jill. Walter. Ken. and Murph for me. Of·"
music .... MICROWAVE ROCK! Tickets eng. & trns.. carpet & curtruns. 272-9913 NICK BIANCa. BATTING COACH TO. are not avaliible at the boxoff1ce. 
The posstbtlities are endless! an!<f liike good care of the colonel 
THE ST lffiS. WILL BE AT NEQ Ill. WILL
APT FOR RENT 288055 ' Hurley
Band Break1ng Upll YOU?
Windsurfing
If you missed ANN BOURJAILY, you·re a Mixer.mlkes.eq.,amps,delay.spkrs,lts. 
Windsurfing
A 2BR HOUSE FOR RENT 230 Windsurfing 
foot. but don't be a complete 1d10Lsee and much more. 272-99t3 JUST WHEN YOU THOUGHT ITT WAS ,_
UTILITIES PAID 150 DEPOSIT 288­

PAT ANDREWS Thursday. March 4. at 8 SAFE TO ENTER FLANNER. .. NED Ill ..
...... )" ····························

Go lor II.·
7519 259-0977

p.m. in SMC's Little Theatre. Moreau HaiL Save money on used books at PAN­/Jeff ""Moon· Jeffers for UMOC -ugly 
Get a clue and BE THERE. DORA"S. Used paperbacks 3&. off the list RAY. moon on campus. Be your own boss! Comfortale 5 bdrm. 
pnce. Open 11-6 weekdays. t0-5 CALIFORNIA HERE WE COME completely furnished house, close lo 
THE LOW LIFE Low Is the best way to
THE BIG SKY CLUB (THE MONT ANNA weekends. PANDORA'S BOOKS, 937 SPRING BREAK IN SB IS REALLY NO
go.
campus for 5 or 6. 288-3942

CLUB) WILL HAVE A MEETING THERE South Bend Avenue. 233-2342. FUN The Marx Brothers In "ANIMAL 
WILL BE AN ELECTION OF CLUB OF­WITH NYC (PARKBENCHES) OUT OF CRACKERS" Tomorrow and Friday
Want a gUitar? New Suzukt/case. new
FICERS AND A DiSCUSSION OF Kenwood KA-70t amp80w/ch, Kenwood REACH 7,9, 1 1 at K of C Admlselon $1 -Mem­
stnngs. All other mus1cal suppl1es. Call
SPRING BREAK. ALL MEMBERS ARE KX-500 cassette deck, RTR spkrs. all with SEE YA IN CA. ON THE BEACH! bers Free
Kathy at 6752.
WANTED

ASKED TO PLEASE ATTEND. warranttes, LAB-500 quartz direct dnve 
turntable.headphones & acces­Chns. Happy 19th Birthday to the reek od•
NED Ill MARY I NED Ill MARY I NED Ill
DO YOU NEED A GOOD HAIRCUT? sones,$850 or separate. 289-3641 (Tony) Thanks for the personal Tracy. See ya of the NO. Lacross Team. Love you Lots. 
Need ride to Houston Texas. for spnng MARY I NED Ill MARY I NED Ill MARY I 
GUYS $4. GIRLS $6 CALL MICHOLE AT there! Lon P. You Still got1t!
break. If you are headed 1n that direction NEDIIIMARYI7951 please call Timo at t782. 

t975 FORD STATION WAGON FOR MARY DURKIN: BEWARE!!! YOU ARE Pete and SScott Thanks for mak1ng myHeyQulnnl
SALE!II PS/PBIAIR/LOADED 65,000 IN FOR A WEEKEND THAT YOU'LL 22nd a night to remember! The Stipper w1l
TYPING 28 years as a secretary. Excel­.. so anyway... so the teller says, he
MILES ... ONL Y $t100.00 CALL NEVER FORGET. PROCEED WITH always remind me of you 2 gorgeous
lent typ1st--ret1red. t.OO per page. Call says, Hey! We no make-uh out r.to
MARILYN OR DUANE AT 684-CAUTION FOR IT SOON AP· HUNKS! l'ss meet you 1n the backseat an­
Phyllis 259-2501. deposits to-uh no frogs!'" (You see, the tel­
LOST/FOUND 

3539 JUST THINK OF ALL THAT PROACHES. THE AMITYVILLE HOR-nytlme, Pete, but when do I get myler was Italian too and he stuttered. right?) 
ROOM!!! ROR birthday kiss?! L1sa Shades. El. Col, MO.
AIDE NEEDED TO HOUSTON TEX-FOR o.k.. so. then the teller sends the. frog Elise _and Mary and A1ch Thanks forSPRING BREAK---WILL SHARE USUAL over to thts guy named Ftogonm, see..
lOST: A t4K GOLD CROSS FROM A SONY BOX. GOOD CONDITION. $80 OR makmg my 22nd so spec1al. You guys are
CALL CHRIS AT t678 ANYTIME. (more later) 
NECKLACE: IN GYM t OF ACC. IF TRADE FOR WALKMAN. CALL t794. JEFF JEFFERS FOR UGLY MOON the greatest\ Love. L1sa. FOUND PLEASE CALL 283·t772. THIS 
ON CAMPUS. 
Must deliver benanaa to my Uncle Silly Boy! When can share another

IS OF GREAT VALUE TO ME. Bonzo In Washington D.C. I need a nde Good SONY WALKMAN! Great Buy-call TODAY IS ANNE THROCKMORTON'S we 
239-7494 FUDGCICLE? 
there anytime. any weekend. I w11f share 21ST BIRTHDAY! HAPPY BIRTHDAY,
LOST: A size 42xl London Fog overcoat CAT"H A PASS FROM BLAIR KEILI
driv1ng and dnnk1ng expenses. I can even ANNEII HAPPY ALWAYSIIII B•o.. ·VIII be at LYONS FOODSALES to 
at Ersk1n C. C. last Saturday night. I have When the sun shines, and my garden
offer amus1ng conversatton, unless you

your 44reg coat. Call Emmett at 234-6298 thaws. then I shall sow my seeds in my
satJsj·y e;:.,J the des1res and needs 
like Silence, 1n whiCh case I'll shut up and Dear Walsh Hall, This 1s 1t, your chance to carrot patch. 
TICKETS

count p1gs through Oh10. If you re d1v1ng to call the mos' good lokk1ng guy on LARRYD.C. g1ve me (Ryan) a call at 272-8158 campus ... so good-looking that hiS neigh­
LOST--SHARP CALCULATOR PLEASE Farmer Ryan 
I v.,,;t to make th1s perfectly clear­

day or night. bor's wife asked htm to have an affa~r-­
Need up to 5 DePaul GA tickets. CallCONTACT BILL AT X8629--REWARD You have all of my cruddy support dunng With the mailman ... so good-looking thatJohn at 1391. 

elect1ons! Donna: What happens If I score 69 1n yourthe only reason we don't nominate him for 
LOST: Gold and Sliver Se1ko watch in bathroom? Rotten Ryan 
GOING WEST? RIDERS NEEDED TO UMOC IS that the charities wouldn't know 
Need MANY DePaul GA·s. I'll do almost KANSAS CITY, WICHITA. OR SALINA what to do w1th all the money... so good·
ROTC building on Feb. t6 If you have 1t One more time ZOO GOO\ 
anyth1ng to get them. Call Dan at 8608 FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL LISA AT looking that he·s the clearas11 poster child· 
please return it; it was a graduation 
anytime. 802t. -before . so good-look1ng that Gerry
present Call Mike at 234-6298 Pres. Reagan wants YOU, LUPPSKI! What? broke my prom1se? HAHII! Wa1t t1ll 
thiS weekend Faust uses h1m as a tackling dummyNEED DEPAUL TICKETS

Found: at the ACC. the night of the Holy YHGLDE
Need nde to M1ch1gan State. East Lans1ng Getting dunked at 4 1n the morn1ng 1s so
Will pay$$$ ffor up to 8 GA"s, Call JOHN dunng pract1ce .... Call thiS good-look1ng
Cross/Dillon hockey game( wh1ch by the 
area. Can leave anyt1me Fnday 26th, or much fun! But don·t worry, you guys, I
guy at his office (239-6383) before 5 p.m. 
3430way the H;)GS won handily) a class nng 

aher 4:00 Thurs. Call Shan X2858. don't get MAD. I get EVEN! 
If you·re lucky he m01ght even refuse to
from Un1on Haven "81. call Vince x1238 BOSTON BUS for BREAK: MEETING,
talk to you. So good-looking ... 
W1ll trade small !hero-nuclear dev1ce for 4 

must identify. THURS. FEB. 25, 7 p.m. LaFortune. Bnng 
ride desperately needed for two to LONG deleted.here.. Beth Bosso 
tickets to the March 3 Mornson $tt0 (non-refund).

ISLAND/N. Y.C. for break! Will share What do these Images conture up --
Schwartzer Concert at the ACC. CallLOST:SINGLE GOLD CHAIN. Extreme 

usual. Ph1l at 8278. cook1es. crackers. Jogg1ng?!? Good fuel< value to me I iffoundplea&ec11UM11rll-· With your 1nterv1ew. BOSTON CLUB PARTY IS FRIDAY! 9t9
Chuck Mason 9t5-5555 PAT ANDREWS IS COMING..•PAT
3895. REWARD. So. Bend. All area res1dents & fnends
HelpIll Desperately need ride to North­ANDREWS IS COMING ... PAT
Alum from Ch1cago needs 2 DePaul GA 

InVIted. lost-a d1g1tal watch w1th a cracked crystal ern Jersey or NYC area lor March tiX Will pay top dollar Call Charlie at 82t4 ANDREWS IS COMING to Sa1nt Mary·s Braak. Can leave anytime, will ahara l1ttle Theatre 1n Moreau Hall, March 4 at 8 
KEENAN (42) II plays 1n the ACC p1t 2nlte 
at 7:00-watch them as they systematical­and Without a band. calf 626t reward. uaual. Calf Tara, SMC, 4986. p.m. ly ·destroy the1r opponent and reduce ROCHESTER REVISITED-FRIDAY 
thanks. HELP! I am 1n desperate need of 3-5 NIGHT
them to a mounds of Gatorade drenched DePaul G.A."s. Call4t-4057 
NEED RIDE MASACHUSSSETTS pulp. Coach Buck says h1s team 1s so h1p
TO LOS ANGELES 
LOST: can see the" belts ! JOE, LETS NOT CHERYL 
SPRING BREAK. CALL DAVE t655 VIa they barely over 
Microeconomics book by Walter Nic­WANT STUDENT OR GAs FOR RAHIRAHI
PHOENIX
holson, in room t2t O'Shag on Fnday, DEPAUL GAME. BIG$. CALL AFTER 11
WANTED: R1de to O'Hare on Fnday. 

p.m. 289-3145. March t2 If you·re leav1ng between 2 and The roadlnp IS on and 1f you need to get to BLAIR KIEL w1ll be serving the des~res of K. K. C. and A. L Thew1ne1sgoneandthe2/12. Please call Mike at 8649 if book 1s 
found. 
3p.m., call Greg at 233-438t LA. or somewhere along our way, gtve ND/SMC women (1.e. fresh p1zza. pop, mousse must be stale. but what the hey. 
Brother wtll dtsown me tf I don't get 2 or 4 Ray a call at 3596 
~·' .. candy, ch1ps, and mult1fanous other why darn we have a reun1on anywayLost: One black daily ass1gnment book in student qr GA DePaul t1x.. please call
Desperately need a nde for two peop.le to munchies) TONIGHT 1n the basement of Party man YEAH! Heard your 5 m1nute
8024-thanks!!!

eng1neenng aud. Fnday. If found call J1m 
Northern Jersey. nght off Route 80. Will AIDE NEEDED to Dayton, C1nc1nnat1. or Lyons Hall. (Note to all you ND.guys--you party was a blast A.little underdressed? at t388. Reward. 
are come
share the usual. Call M1ke at 1t81 Ham11ton area this weekend (Feb 26-28) MOST welcome to over and M1ss B. dcryou have anyth1ng to do With
NEED4DEPAULGA'SCALLMARTY AT 

munch and scope out all these desirables LOST 2 CAR KEYS. ROOM KEY. MAIL 
W111 share usual. Call Amy 4t-4t37. the way she runs ChJcago?
t623 

Need nde to N VIRGINIAID.C area for that w111 be com1ng to scope out Bla~r--and KEY ON STCHRISTOPHER CHAIN. 
maybe YOU!) Lyons Foodsales bnngs
spnng break. Can leave late the 1Oth. Call See WSND go for 1ts third stra1ght athletiC MOVIE THE STING WED & THURS
PLEASE CALL X177t. I DESPERATELY NEED TWO DEPAUL
J1m 1763. you N.D.'s BEST 1n FRESH THICK
v1ctory aga1nst tthe Observer on Wednes­CARROL HALL SMC 7-9:30 $t BEGA TICKETS PLEASE CALL TIM AT 
CRUST PIZZA-MADE TO ORDER' We PLEASE NOTICE; LOST: A Be1ge fur­
day night at midnight 1n a hockey game 1n THERE!
t377!!!! 

NEED RIDE TO MIAMI U. OH also deliver anywhere on South Quad for 
the north dome of the ACC. WSNDcollared winter coat by MAINE GUIDE at 
the nom1nal delivery charge of 25 cents-­the South Dining Hall on 2/22/82. A scarf 
CALL RICH 232-1824 (AM64) Will carry the game live 1f you can't 
I NEED 2 DEPAUL GA"S!! CALL BOB AT which 1ncludes one LUSCIOUS LYONSmake 1t. RA Jacl< Bngant1 and Joltm· Jane1647

a 11d hat were 1n the pockets also. Any in­DEUVERY LADY! (Sunday through
NEED TWO RIDES TO DALLAS FOR Healey will prov1de the play-by-play ac­formation leading to my retnev1ng the coat 
SPRING BREAK. PLEASE CALL 7880 Thursday nights) Bored on a Wednesday
tton.

Desperately need GA DePaul t1ckets!!l Found: one yellow notebook beanng Ini­
will be rewarded without quest1on. Please OR 7942. n1ght? Stop by Lyons Foodsales--phone 
contact Kevin at tt03. Thank You. Call Sandy at 272-4683 x1853--CATCH A PASS FROM BLAIR­
GET DEBAUCHED tials RVB and note. valuable reward Two female roommates wanted for next GET DEBAUCHED TONIGHT! More guest workers to come .. upon return. What do I get? you know
Found: one near Need 2 DEPAUL tickets, Will even pay.
ring library Sunday 
year for Campus V1ew apartment Please GET DEBAUCHED who
Call Dan at 8584. 

n1ght. Call and describe. CHIP at 8647. 
call78t2. 
GET DEBAUCHED GET DEBAUCHED Kat1e. Even though you d1dn t believe me
Who was that handsome gentleman be­FOUND: CASH--TELL ME WHERE YOU 
I NEED MANY GAs for DePaul. W1ll pay

NEED A RIDE TO JACKSON, MISSIS. GET DEBAUCHED hind the Observer desk yesterday? It was 
the other mght, I really am sorry. Banner SIPPI FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL THEONLYWAYTOGO.. such a pleasure to see someone en1o y1ngAND IT'S YOURS. CALL JIM 8t65. 
LOST IT, WHEN, AND HOW MUCH, $36 a pa1r and future draft considerations. 
Call JC at 8446. 

A.M.P. at 7933. h1s work so much .. rm sure I'll be back. 




·----·-------·-------­
The Observer-Sports 
Playoffs near 
lo\Vaslumps,BigTen race tight 
ByJOE MOOSHIL head examined." Ohio State and Indiana, who are tied Associated Press But Iowa also lost to Michigan last for third place, two games off the Saturday, a game Olson admits the pace. That tie will be resolved tom­
Iowa Coach Lute Olson is a mild­Hawkeyes should have;: won. morrow night when Indiana plays at mannered individual hut mention Another game the Hawkeyes Ohio State. tht· word "slump" in connection should win is at home tommorrow Minnesota will be at J\1ichigan, Il­
with his llawkcyes and his feathers night against last-place Wisconsin linois at Michigan State and Purdue become rultled. hefore squaring off against Min­at Northwestern. 
"What slump?" said Olson, whost· nesota on Saturday in a pivotal con­Coach Jim Dutcher of Minnesota llawkeyes have lost two of thdr last test. Iowa then tinishes the regular is not looking past Michigan to the thn.T ganws hut still hold a one­season on the road at lllinois and important Iowa game Saturday. 
game lead over Minnesota in the Big Purdut·. "Michigan is playing tough and we Ten ran·. "Wl"ve won 19 and lost "The history and tradition of the haven't won thd:e in I 3 years," said only lilur, we'rt· in tirst place in the ~g Ten, witQ__rare exceptions, is that Dutcher. "What happens to~lmor­Big Ten and we're still ranked na­
tlie race goes down to the t1nal week ro~ will set the stage for Saturday. tionally. We lost a game at Indiana, and the tina! games," said Olson. "All All ofour preparations arc for Michi­hut anyhody who goes to Indiana of'us h:i've difficult gafiles left." ·gan." and expects to win should have his Behind Iowa and Minnesota are Dutcher also called the Big Ten 
race "typical," adding: "Someone al­
ways breaks out in front as Iowa did, · then the other teams spring back rand scramble the race. It seems it al-­
• • • Georgetown 
ways goes down to the last week an<) there are no exceptions. 
here with Rev. Robert Maloney, SJ., Assistant Dean of Arts ami Sciences. See Rachel Blount's story on page 12. (Photo courtesy
East Conference game against "Before th~ NCAA tournament ex­
continuedfrom page I 2 
I l>rovidence. University ofSan Francisco Sports Information)
panded to 48 teams when only tli.e 
"Oh, yes. I get kind ofangry if they Th~ H6yas' most publicized v_ic-champion would get a hid, the teams .............................. . 
don't," Thompson says. Anyone who tory this season was a 12-pointer that were behind wouW say 'what Off-Campus Commission & the Senior Class has stood alongside this massive over then No. 4-ranked Missouri !Jist the. heck' and let it go at that._ ~ut 
Present 

man would understand the desire to Saturday. Floyd and Ewing Wl-re the now \Vith three or four teams havtng 
f
kec:p him happy. principals in that one. Unfortunate-a chance to get into the tournament, 
:'82 BEERS TILL GRADUATION
" But I tell them from the begin-ly, Ewing also has been the cause, they don't let you get away." ningthat I'm not here to be a mother even if indirectly, of some of -Besides Iowa and Minnesota,' or lather to them," he said. "A~ far as Thompson's most worrisome mo-! te'ams scrambling for tournament ! Beginning Feb. 24 we will be downing 
my stressing education go~s. I don't ments. ~ positions are Ohio State, Indiana, Il­+at least a beer a day in honor ofthe last '82 
feel I'm exceptional in that. Vnfor-Duhng three straight losses in linois and Purdue. Iowa has an I 1-3 
1%days before graduation. Come have the
tunatcly, thou~h. the rule breakers mid-January, Ewing began to'gain ~ ,re.cofd to 10-4 for Minnesota. Ohio get more publicity." ~ ( reput'lltion, as a dirty player. fie had State and Indiana are 9-5 and lllinois :firstofyour '82 beers with us on Wed., This season was·expected to be t~aded elbows with~a Yugoslavian and Purdue are 8:6. ­
+Feb. 24atSENIOR BAR· 
particularly • challenging for. player in an exhibition game in Iowa could conceivably clinch a Thompson. He was facec:L..with tire Novembe..r: and :U the eaJo(Qecem.­tie for..!he title thi~eek if t~e Haw­
! COMING COUNTDOWNEVENTS
task of melding three 'freshmen,' ber in the Rochester Classic, he ka<.l keyes d'cfeat both Wisconsin and includin[t ·the highly pub.liciz~d , an elbow-tht;o~ng session with Minnesota and Minnesota also loses 
! Fri., Feb. 26 
Patrick Ewing~-.,. with ·a team that Columbia's Tom Brecht. at Michigan. Michigan, after an 0-6 rct¥rncd all fiv'c · st~ers~ .Resent-Th}:n came the nicknam~ "Darth starUn the Big Ten, has won five of + Happy Hour at Corby's. Help 0-C ment Jn 'the' part -of1 dispfa~d Vader," andJlwjng had become a vii­its last eight games and three of the 
: welcome Corby's back to the Five points 

seniors was a possib)llty he admits lain ofintergalactic notoriety. last four. 
concc:rned hin1 r 
. . ~ 
"ltwasn'tasmuchofaprvblemas 
' 1 th'ouglu it might be," Tl,t.pmpson said. "A lot ofthe reason for that was because ofthe attitude o~ur incom­ing veople. Actually, It's been one of my most enjoyable years. "I wouldn't have had the same feeling if it weren't for the coopera­tion of the players," he said. "The fr~shmen have made no special demands in proportion to their teputations." Besides Ewing, a 7-footer from Camb.ridge, Mass., Thompson recruited two of the best freshmen In the Washington area -forwards AnthonyJones and Bill Martin. "If there's been any problem with any of the freshmen, jt's been that they're too unselfish," Thompson said. "Anthoriy Jones in particular. He's so unselfish, he won't take his shots. I guess he's trying to please ' me, and that's not all bad, but it's much easier to keep the ball ·away fr6m a kid than It is to make him shoot." 
AJ. 6-6, Jones might be designated 1 to take over the role of guard Eric "Sle..:py" Floyd, a senior who scores I 7 points a game and is George­town's all-time leading scorer with 2, 149 points going into tonight's Big 
... Ratns 
continuedfrom page I 2 
very good team," he said. "Penders deserves to be credited for the job he's done. He's been patient with his players. They felt it was their turn tonight." 
IRISH ITEMS -The Irish out­
rebounded the Rams, 35-26 ....the 
win breaks an eight-game Ram 
losing streak to the Irish ....the 
Rams have now won 13 of their last 
15 contests ....Fordham. now 17-8, 
will get a first-round bye in the · 
.\1eiro Atlantic Tourna­
ment ....Notre Dame haad only 
two assists in the game ....Fordham 
had ll. ... 'ihe Rams exhibited 
dutch free throw shooting, hitting 
13-of-14 down the stretch 
Ib-
-'. ~~---~=-----------­

~-­= -= ~ ~i.Dt:t:Ve.r-:_ 
Needs SM C Reporters Write "Focus" stories and make $. 
Call Cathy if interested 277-2244 The SM C 0 BSERVER office is open from 

1 :30-3 : 30 M-Th 
and Sundays for classified ads. 


t  area (80 beers tillgraduation)  
f  MARCH COMES IN LIKE A LION  
+  Thursday Night, March 4th.. at  
:  STEAK & ALE (74 beers till graduation)  
:  0-C Night at Steak &Ale is from  
:  10:30-2:30 pm.  
i i  Join your friends at the countdown! ALSO, Enjoya little noontime music Fri. the 26th ofFeb. at LaFortune. The lunchtime merriment will feature "Mike Daly". Come and share in the fun.  

~............................... 
~.............................. 
EARN OVER $8001 MONTH. 
AUD OPErt THE DOOR TO ATOP 
EHGINEERING FUTURE. 
.. ,.

g Mi!RAIARIA = * Mdi 
How many corporations would be willing to pay you over $800 a month during your junior and senior years just so you'd join the company after graduation? Under a special Navy program we're domg just that. It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate-College Program. And under it, you'll not only get great pay during your junior and senior years, but after graduation you'll receive a year of valuable graduate-level training that is not available from any other employer. 
If you are a junior or senior majoring in math, engineering or 
GIII!'T A HEAI) rTAlrr 
physical sciences, find out more today. And let your career pay off 15 Dl ·· ft WJIDII\1 
while still in college. 

INANUCLEARCAREER. 
For information or an interview, 

see your llAVY reps on campus: 11-ain for a career as a Nuclear Propulsion Officer in the Navy. The Navy has the most advanced nuclear equipment in the world, and needs 3-4 March advanced nuclear trained officers to maintain and operate it. The graduate level training you'll receive in this program could 
\ cost S30,000. As a Nuclear Propulsion Officer, you'll be rewarded with increased responsibilities and promotion potential·. QUALIFICATIONS: Age-19 to 27Y2 years old. Rciu!'ation-Working towards (or hRve completed l BA orBS degree. 
-

The Observer-Sports Wednesday, February 24, 1982 -page 10 


Edmonsonsecond 
Indiana's Kitchel tops instats 
CHICAGO (AP)-Ted Kitchel of Indiana and Keith Edmonson of Purdue are engaged in a torrid battle 
. for individual scoring honors in the Big Ten basketball race. 
Kitchel has scored 288 points in 14 conference games for a 20.6 average and Edmonson has 285 pointsfor a 20.4 average. 
Nobody else is close to the two leaders. Kevin Smith of Michigan State is third with a 17.5 average followed by Clark Kellogg of Ohio State at 17.0, Craig Tucker ofIllinois 
I 5.5, Eric Turner of Michigan 14.9, Randy Breuer of Minnesota 14.3, Trent Tucker of Minnesota-14. I, ]ames Griffin ofIllinois 13.9 and Jim Stack of Northwestern and Thad Garner of Michigan tied at 13.8. 
Russell Cross ofPurdue is the field goal percentage leader at .569 with 

Kitchel a fraction behind at .568 shouldn't draw automatic berths in very difficult for our league 'to get followed by Perry Range of Illinois the National Collegiate Athletic As-four teams," he said. .545, Kellogg .540 and Breuer at sociation's basketball playoffs. The Big Ten, Pac-1 0 and Western .540. "I don't think a .500 team that Athletic Conference 'Ire the only 
Kitchel leads in free throw per­wins a conference tournament major conferences left that don't centage with 78 of189 for .876 with should be in the NCAA. They should stage the moneymaking league Tony Campbell ofOhio State second take the teams with the best overall eliminations. with 39 of 46 for .847 and Tucker of records, the ones that have played Miller is lukewarm to such Illinois 65 of78 for .833. consistently well all season," Miller eliminations for the Big Ten. 
Kellogg remains the rebound said Tuesday. "Some years it would b~ a 'plus, leader 158 for an 1 1.2 average The Ohio State coach has good and some years it would not be," he followed by Brad Sellers of Wiscon­reason for such a stand at this time. said. "Our league, like., the most sin with 131 for a 9.4 average and The Buckeyes, 18-8 overall but only· powerful kagues in the country, 
Griffin with 10 l and a 7.2 average. 9·5 in the Big Ten, are trying to gain 
Darryl Mitchell of Minnesota is an at-large berth to the NCAA. the assists leader with 31 and a 2.2 They face invading Indiana tom-average, followed by Derek Harper morrow night in a game that may of Illinois with 28 and a 2.0 average. determine a Big Ten representative john Bailey of Wisconsin and Steve to the national playoffs. The defend-Carfino of Iowa have 22 each and a ing NCAA champion Hoosiers, 15-8 
1.6 average. for all games. share third place in the 
Harper is _the assists leader far and league with the Buckeyes. away. He has 80 for a 5.7 average Miller believes that the Big Ten with Turner send with 56 and a 4.0 could wind up with four NCAA 
DAYTONA BEACH 
SPRING BREAK 
Co\YfiONA DIWXI ... 

o a daVf/7 niQhh ~uxur­leul lOdging at the WNteholl 1m on the b8Cich near the pielf 
0 Oc:eanfl'ont Hotel 

o Optional Patty Bus In 
rnonyaeos 

0 YNiccme Patty 0 $porta ActMIIet 0 Nta.. 0 Dilr~ Watd Option 
Only $11_9 
Df.Y'IONA 1C0N0MY ... ' 8 do(s/7 nigh~ at the Oiplomol Baoch Mole! , Oceanfront IOdgong ( ' Optlonol Patty Bus Ill
monvONIOS 
w.com. Patty ~~ Sports i'CIMhes 
',Alit~ 
; : Oitnev Watd Option 

$99 

average. Smith has 55 and a 3.9 average and Dan Pdekoudas of Michigan has 54 and a 3.8 average. 
Sellers leads in blocked shots with 34 followed by Granville Waiters of Ohio State with 28, Griffin with 27, Cross with 26 and Breuer with 25. 
Indiana is the team leader on of· fense with a 65.6 average followed by Minnesota th 64.1, Illinois 61. 7, Iowa 61 :\ Ohio State 60.2. Purdue 
\.  
60.0,  Wisconsin  58.6,  Michigan  
585,  Michigan  State  56.4  and  
Northwestern 56.3.  

Iowa is the team leader in defense allowing only 54.9 points per game. Illinois is second at 56.4 followed by Michigan State 56. 9, Minnesota 58.6, Northwestern 58.9, Ohio State 60.0, Purdue 60.8, Indiana 60.9, Michigan 64.9 and Wisconsin 70.5. 
Miller wants NCAA ' playoffs.to change 
COLUMBUS. Ohio (AP) -Eldon teams as it did in 1980. Miller, Ohio State's coach, says upset "But if the .500-type teams' win winners of conference tournaments conference tournaments, it will be 
FORT LAUDERDALE 
SPRING BREAK 
: 8 do(s/7 nights lodging at the tleouftful R1viero Hotellactng the ocean in the heat! cl Loudeldolel 
Oceontront Hotel OphOnol Patty Bua in monv aeos PooiSide -comepotty 
Sports i'Ctillitlel 
All 10118$ 
$139 
JOHN HREBEC 
PIIHe: 283-1216 ....,.: 5:30-7:00,. 11:00-12:00,. 


could have a team get hot for three or four games and win the tourna­ment. It might not be the best team in the league. If you go to a tourna­ment, you take away from the league race." · 
Wayne Duke, the Big Ten com­missioner and former ch:ilrman of the NCAA tournament selection committee, is a firm believer in his league's double round robin of 18 games. 
Bob Crable (Photo byjohn Macor) 

Sentimental Bob Crable winsaward 
Bob Crable, co-captain and middle linebacker for the I980-8I Irish football team, recieved the Kodak All-American Team award during the halftime of last night's Notre Dame-Fordham basketball game. 
"I think this is the first time I ever got a standing ovation," said Crable, a senior, moved by the crowd's ap­preciation for his efforts this past year. "I'm going to get sentimental. I believe Notre Dame is great because ofit's stuqent body." 
Crable was also picked to the As· sociated Press All-American team (first team) and the United Press In­ternational team (first team). -The Observer 


"ARTIO'S IRISH PUB LUNCHEON SPECIALS" 
"Kitchen's open at 11 am" 
BBQ Beefor Pork Ribs 3.99 7oz. N.Y. Strip Steak or Rib Eye 3.99 4pieceBBQcbicken 2.99 NYor Rib Eye Sandwicb Deluxe 2 99 
Irish Stew 1. 75 · 1/3/b. Hamburger 1.90 l /3/b,Cbeese burger 2.00 
Ita/ Saus 1.69 Ita/ Beef 1.99 Roast Beef1.99 Ham &Cheese 1.50 Ham Safad .99 Corned Beef 2.29 Reuben 2.80 

I
l/zmi Ironwood 
o= 
Iii.:0
-N: 


ing's Campus c.e. 





Wednesday, February 24, 1982-page 11 
Molarity Michael Molinelli 





r---------, 
CW THf; 07HiiR. HANO, IF 


Simon Jeb Cashin 



The Daily Crossword 
' 
©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
ACROSS 1 Italian dish 
6 Slant 10 Ministers 12 Part of an 
equine loot 
15.Ancient country of Asia 
16 Asmara Is its capital 
17 Actor Erwin of yore 
18 Peterthe 
actor 20 Here: Fr. 21 Spare, e.g. 23 Urbane 


24 Milkmaid's  46 Tiff  19 Vientiane's  
item  47 Soul: Fr.  land  
25 Better  48 Candy  22 Prepare  
27 Dance  50 Small bird  to fly  
or nail  51 Style  24 Imitates  
28 Stems  53 Photo  26 Actress  
29 Abhors 31 Intrinsic·  55 Main part 56 Floor  Keaton 28 Puts over  
ally  worker  a fire  
32-an egg  57 Moneyin  30 Command  
(flopped) 33 Rip 34-garde 36 Don't speak 40 Stretch  the pot 58 Appended DOWN 1 Solving  to Fido 31 Favorite 33 Winter vegetables 34 Fragrances  
one's neck  puzzles,  35 Redgrave  
41 Sailor  for example  the actress  
42 Girl in  2 Convinces  36-out(use  
the pool 43 Sharpen  3 Pen 4 Craggy  a parachute) 37 God of the  
44 Dishes  hills  sea  
5 Zodiac  38 Stuffy  
sign  39 Colonel of  
6 Wllkes-­ "MASH"  
7 Goddess of  40 Make sore  
fertility  by rubbing  
8 Courtroom  41 Macbeth's  
person:  title  
abbr.  44 Italian  
9 Magazine  philosopher  
features  4.5 Bryant or  
10 Walloped  Loos  
· 11 Greeted,  48 Liquid  
in away  measure  
12 Irk  49 Modified  
13 Render  plant  
a poem 14 Foot  52 Egg layer 54 Prescrip­ 
endings  tion abbr.  

Campus 
•Noon 
-Rally, Nuclear Protest, Keynote talk by Fr. Hesburgh, Front steps of Administration Build­ing 

•2 
· 5 p.m. -Tax Program, N.~. Tax Assistance Program, LaFortune Student Center 

• 
2:20, 4:30 p.m. -Films, "The Flight of the Dragon" and "The Story of Chinese Art", 349 Madeleva Hall, Sponsored by History Department, Free Admission 

•2:30 
p.m.-Workshop, Marge Piercy, Memorial Ubrary Lounge, Sponsored by Sophomore Literary Festival 

•4:20 
p.m. -Colloquium, "Magnetic Field Dependence of the Energy Gap and Magnetic Sus­ceptibility of Liquid He-B, Dr. Roger Hoyt, Ohio State University, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall, Sponsored by Physics Department 

•4:30 
p.m. -Meeting, Amnesty International, In­ternational Students Lounge, Basement of LaFortune 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Human Dental Decay, A SpecificS. Mutans Infection", Dr. Walter). Loesch, 278 Galvin Life Science Auditorium, Sponsored by Microbiology Department 

• 
5:15 p.m. -Mass, Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Right to Life Club, Father Hesburgh, celebrant, Sacred Heart Church 

•7, 
9 p.m. -FUm, "The Sting", Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's College, Sponsored by Freshman Council, S I admission 

•7:30 
p.m. -Reading, Marge Piercy, Memorial Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Sophomore Uterary Festival 

•8 
p.m. -Seminar, "John Paulll's Encyclical on Work", Fr. Edward O'Connor, C.S.C., 117 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by Thomas More Society 

•to 
p.m. -Lecture, Mary DiStanislao, Women's Basketball Coach, St. Ed's Lounge 

•II 
p:m. -WSND Radio, Album Hour, "The Slow Children Radio Special" 

• 
Midnight -WSND Radio, Hockey Play-by-Play, WSND vs. Tbe Observer, ACC, AM 64 


T.V. Tonight 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 

8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. lO:OOp.m. 
10:30p.m. ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
12:00a.m. 12:30a.m. 
16 The Muppet Show 
22 Family Feud 
28 Ti<; Tac Dough 
34 Straight Talk 
46 Oral Robert~ 
16 Real People 
22 She's A Good Skate, Charlie Brown 
28 Grt·atest American Hero 
34 Hollywood's Childrt·n 
46 21st Century News 
22 Tht· Two of lJs 
46 The Renewed Mind 
16 !'acts Of Life 
22 CBS Special: "The Grammy Awards" 
28 The Fall Guy 
34 Everest In Winter 
46 Today With Lester Sumrall 
16 Love, Sidney 
34 George Caleb Bingham 
16  Quinq·  
28  Dynasty  
34  Say  Brother  An  Evening  with  
Webster Lewi~  
46  Calvary Templt"  
34  Camera Three  
46  Michiana Today  
16  NewsCenter 16  

22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 The Dick Cavett Show 
46 Praise The Lord 
16 Tonight Show 
22 CBS Movie: "De!Our to Terror" 
28 ABC News Nightline 
34 Captioned ABC News 
28 Love Boat 
46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 
16 Late Night With David letterman 

-
.. 

--.,~-IC»JJ-----~-,._®r-·.•~~"''_______ .. 
see maRqe pieRcy anooav10 waqoneR at th€ sophomoReliteRaRy t=estJval 
ffiaRG€ PI€Rcy -nov€tJst 
Wednesday, Feb. 24 -Reading 
7:30library Auditorium 
Oav1b Waqon€R 
Thursday, Feb., 25 -Reading 7:30libra,ry Aud. 6'Friday, Feb., 26-Workshop 1:30lib.Lounge 
GOT THE WEDNESDAY BLAHS? 
Thenrun to 
ARIOB'IJ&Bi 
forthe LAST WEDNESDAY NTTE DRAFTSPECIAL IN FEBRUANYI We '11 feature GROLSCH 
-;;a.=---­for your Import~ct pleasure! open 10: 00-2 : 00 
p.s.lunch tomorrow -Yellow Subs .11 :30-1 :30 


Wednesday, February 24, 1982 -page 12 
Fordham Rams butt NotreDame by 15 
By DAvE DZIEDZIC points of the second half, bringing ssociate Sports Editor the previously quiet crowd alive. The Rams, in the meantime, had-One good player does not make a trouble hittiQg their shots. But the team. Irish were not able to get within five 
That's the lesson that Notre Dame points ofthe Rams. learned last night. The Irish learned "We kept our composure in the it the hard way, dropping a 65-50 second half, and that was the key," decision to the Fordham Rams in the Penders said. "Notre Dame came out ACC. The Irish, now 8-15, may have strong in the second half, and the also lost any hopes of a post-season crowd got behind them. 'But I told tournament bid. the guys to keep playing our type of 
Even though Fordham employed game, and they did." a tough box-and-one defense on Fordham's "type of game" was a Notre Dame's John Paxson, the good display of team basketball. The junior guard still was able to score a Rams ,utilized excellent ball move­game-high 21 points (15 in the ment and good shot selection. They second half) on 8-of-1 5 from the set screens well and kept looking for field and 5-of-5 from the free throw the open man. line. Fordham's African connection 
But Paxson's supporting cast lead the Rams' balanced scoring at­wasn't suppportive. The remaining tack. Seven-foot senior center Dud four Irish starters shot only 28 per­Tonga! scored 18 points to lead a cent ( 7-of-25) from the field, allow­balanced scoring attack. Tongal shot ing the Rams to overplay Paxson. 70 percent (7-of-10) from the floor, 
"Tonight was another case of while Edward Bona was perfect inconsistency on our part," said from the floor, hitting all four of his Notre Dame Coach Digger Phelps af­shots. Bona finished with 12 points. ter the game. "Paxson played well Notre Dame center Tim ~ndree against their defense but our other could manage only three second­guys couldn't capitalize. We halfpoints to finish with 12. By RACHEL BLOUNT told the student newspaper, "I'll be profound concern on the issue or on couldn't get the inside game going. Even though they shot ·better in Sports Writer playing ball. That's all I can say." Ath­
anyone concerned with it." "When Spencer, Andree, and the second half( 39 percent) than in letic moderator FatherJoseph Eagan Dailey, a strong candidate for All­Rucker play well inside, things open the first half ( 33 percent), the Irish 
Charges offive felonies, including confirmed Dailey's statement yes­American honors and the leading up for· our outside shooters. We saw were intimidated by the Rams' big 
attempted rape, were filed Monday terday, saying that "Quintin is scorer for the Top Twenty-ratedthat against South Carolina on Satur­front line. Tongal blocked two shots 
against University of San Francisco practicing and will continue to Dons, has led his teain in each oftheday." and Bona (6-8) blocked one, but basketball star Quintin Dailey. The play." The athletic office refused fur­last three contests against NotreThe game was a see-saw battle un­their mere presence !·.alted several 6-3 junior guard, currently the Divi­ther comment, but a formal state­Dame, including a game-high 29til 3:40 remained in the first half Irish shooters. At times, it appeared sion I's fifth leading scorer, turned ment issued yesterday by Ron Brill, points in last year's 80-75 upset lossFordham led, 23-19, at that point. that the Irish were afraid to shoot. 
himselfin at the Hall ofJustice in San the University's Director of Public to the Irish in South Bend. This year,The Rams then reeled off eight un­Fordham had been frustrated the 
Francisco after a warrant was issued Affairs, stated that "having con­answered points to take a 3 I-19 into past two years against Notre Dame, for his arrest and was freed half an sidered the seriousness of the the guard tallied 13 points in USF's 
the lockerroom. so last night's victory was especially hour later on $5,000 bond. charges, it would be wrong for the 57-55 triumph in San Francisco and Even though his chlb held a 12-sweet for the Rams. The charges, filed against Dailey university or anyone representing it led all scorers with 24 points as the point lead Fordham Coach Tom Pen~ "It's a good feeling to finally beat 
by another USF student, included to make any comment other than Dons fell to Notre Dame at the ACC. ders wasn't satisfied at halftime. "We Notre Dame." Tonga! said. "The 
two counts of assault with intent to had good games against Notre Dame Irish arc always well coached, but commit a sexual act, assault to com­the past two years," he said. "Two they've had trouble this year. We mit great bodily harm, burglary with 
years ago at home, we led them by knew that this had to be our year." intent to commit a felony and false 
Meadowlands move 
-10 at halftime and ended up losing Penders was equally pleased. imprisonment. The incident alleged­
by I5. I told our kids not to get com­"After the past few losses to Notre 
ly occured on December 21, the day placent. Notre Dame has a lot of Dame, this one feels great," he said. before USF's three-point victory 
forN.Y. Rangers?
pride. I knew the Irish would make a Phelps praised Penders for the job 
over New Orleans in San Francisco. run at it." he's done with the Rams. "They are a EAST RUTHERFORD, NJ. (AP)­If'the National Hockey .League
Dailey, who currently averages 
New York team decides to move across the
The Irish did make a run at it. 24.4 points per game, refused to The Rangers yesterday
See RAMS, page 9

Notre Dame scored the first six agreed to tell the New Jersey Sports Hudson River they will walk into 30­
comment upon his arrest but later 
and Exposition Authority by April year lease at the 7-month-old arena 22 if they plan to abandon Madison here. Part of the agreement signed S4uate Garden for the ·Tuesday includes a $.1 SO.OOO good­Meado:wlands. faith payment to the expositions 
authority. ... The Rangers also agreed not to block auempts by other NHL
Thompson 
franchises to move to the arena should the New York team decide to stay in .\1anhattan. 
'deflates' 
''It is an expression of their intent to come here," said Chairman jon F. Hanson of the expositions authority,
Georgetown 
who received the commitment ByJOHN NELSON signed by Rangers President Jack Associated Press Krumpe on Feb. 18 and called the 
special meeting yesterday to ratifY it. 
John Thompson, coach ·of the "We have one goal, and that is to Georgetown University basketball bring a hockey team here," said the team, keeps a deflated basketball in authority's executive director. his office just as a reminder. Robert Mulcahy. 
"When I first came to George­"We will do anything we can to town, I brought it to remind the kids procure a team. This is the first step. that they didn't want their lives to be and hopefully, the last. We felt we predicated on nine or I 0 pounds of had to do something to put this in a air in a basketball," Thompson says. time frame. We got our foot in the "There are a lot of things more sig­door now, and this gives us a nificant." wedge." 
So, he says, he chose the flat bas­It also was agreed that if the Ran­ketball as a graphic illustration, to gers don't move to the say to his players: "if someone lets Meadowlands, they will not oppose the air out ofyour basketball, I don't the transfer of an existing team or want them to be able to come up to the assignment of an expansion you and say, 'Here, this is your life. franchise to the New Jersey facility, What are you worth now?'" located only eight miles from Mid­
In his I Oth season at Georgetown, town Manhattan. Thompson has gained a reputation That clause is subject to the Ran­as a teaching coach who stresses gers' receipt of a favorable academics it an academically tough agreement regarding territorial in­school. All five of the seniors on his demnification. roster will graduate on schedule. The Colorado Rockie~ of the NHL 
also have expressed interest in
.. See GEORGETOWN, page 9 
moving to NewJersey. 



Although Paxson bad this shot blocked, he made both ofhisfree throws to lead theIrish with 





