.Survey -page 3
'
' 

VOL XVI, NO. 120 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, MARCH 29, 1982 

SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP) -Guerrilla attacks shut the polls in El Salvador's fourth-largest city yester­day, but voters turned out in heavy numbers elsewhere, balloting sometimes within blocks of gun­battles in an election billed as a prelude to representative overn­ment. 
The sounds of street fighting resounded through the capital, where at least 24 guerrillas were said by residents and the army to have been killed in fighting. 
The voting was for a 60-member Constituent Assembly empowered to rewrite the Constitution and replace the ruling junta with a provisional government, including an interim president. Centrists on the junta said if they won, new general elections could be held in a year. 
The country's last popularly elected government, chosen in 1977, was overthrown in a 1979 coup. 
Junta Presidt:nt Jose Napoleon Duarte's centrist Christian Democrats and the ultra-right Republican National Alliance, ARENA, of former Maj. Roberto d'Aubuisson were the major conten­ders. Four other rightist parties also in the race are potential power­brokers in a coalition if the main parties fail to win a majoriry. 
Fighting in Usulutan, a city of 60,000 people located 65 miles east of the capital, kept polls closed. Sol­diers fought an undetermined num-
Malloy speaks on social issues 
By CINDY COLDIRON 
StaffReporter 
Responsibility is "an attempt to live a.~ full a life as possible," said Fr. Edward Malloy last evening in his lecture "Contemporary Moral Issues: Addictions and Compul­
sions"  moral  in  the Sacred  Heart  
Church crypt.  
Reflecting on  the  rwelve  steps  

that the members of Alcoholic Anonymous must go through, Mal­loy emphasized the "importance ofa moral inventory which is similar to an examination of moral conscious­ness." "By this process we can reor­ganize our life and find some solutions or clues for our future," said Malloy. 
u ... live as full a life as 
possible." 
"What is entailed by moral responsibility," said Malloy, "is self­knowledge of one's strengths and weaknesses, one's personal history and the social environment in which we live." 
Remarking that mixed motives are an integral part of human exist­ence, Malloy stressed the need to find some sense ofdirection for our life. 
"Compulsions can be ways that we falsely organize our lives to remain immune to another calling in life," Malloy said, "and that today we 
Guerrillas attack 
Salvadorean voters crowd polls 
Summer service offered by Vocations Office 
ber of guerrillas, including rooftop snipers. / The hospital in Usulutan reported an unspecified number of wounded 
·civilians, and a CBS news crew reported seeing at least five dead sol­diers, 1 0 wounded soldiers, and a man who had been wounded walkng to a polling place, which was closed. 
By noon, Usulutan was the only ciry in which a serious guerrilla at­tempt to take and hold a population center had been reported. 
In Apopa north of San Salvador, soldiers in a second floor classroom fired at guerrillas across fields on rwo sides of a school as voters huddled in an enclosed courtyard below. 
The cities of San Miguel, Santa Ana, San Vicente and La Union were reported quiet, although a hospital official reported four soldiers wounded in fighting outside San Vicente. People in those cities came in from the country by foot, ox-cart and election commission truck. 
In Zacatecoiuca, southeast of the capital, a brass band entertained long lines ofvoters. 
In San Francisco Gotera, capital of the rebel-infested northeastern province of Morazan, residents said a few people voted. They said they heard gunfire for three hours early in the day. 
Even in the working-class district of Soyapango, a leftist stronghold east of the capital where a light tur­nout had been expected, an es­timated 10,000 voters lined up. Some women fainted from the heat and crowded conditions. 
Much of the street fighting in San Salvador was near polling places. 
By KATHLEEN DOYLE 
StaffReporter 
A three-week "Boston Ex­
perience" summer service program 
to be held June 13 to July 4 is being 
offered by the Vocations Office for 
interested Notre Dame men. 
The program is sponsored by the eastern province of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross Fathers. Par­ticipants will reside at Stonehill College and will be given oppor­tumues to experience various service ministries. 
In past years, participants have rendered service at the Massachu­setts Rehabilitation Hospital, Haley House, a soup kitchen for street men, and at Columbia Point Housing Development. 
"At Haley House, as well as at Columbia Point, I saw a part of Bos­ton I hadn't seen before," said Brian Mulcahy, a participant. "Working in the clothing room, helping prepare the meals, washing dishes, and cleaning up after meals gave me a feeling of sharing myself and giving of myself to others less fortunate than I." 
Said Rich Vanucci, another par­ticipant, "Even in the three short weeks I was there, I formed close friendships with the patients I worked with and I really felt that I had helped them deal with their problems and situation." 
"Visiting shut-ins, running errands with the sisters, and doing odd jobs, I gained a sense of accomplishment from knowing that, at least for a little while, I had helped lighten the work load of the men and women who have dedicated their lives to these ministries. The three weeks were also an excellent opportunity to get a feeling for the Congregation of the 
Holy Cross," Mulcahy added. 
Those interested in the Boston 
Experience should contact Father 
Bob Wiseman, C.S.C., Holy Cross 
Fathers, 835 Clinton Avenue, 
Bridgeport, Connecticut 06604. 
• 
tend to use the word neurosis to talk about these minor level ideosyncrycies." 
Malloy believes that what distin­guised compulsions from addictions was that addictions are ofsuch levels of intensity that it "takes a dramatic change for a person to overcome this difficulty." These addictions seem to be at such level ofmoral sig­nificance that if they are "left unat­tended, they will destroy us," he added. 
"If we are addicted," said Malloy, "we cannot find wholeness until we get to the root of the problem and God needs to be an integrated part ofthis transformed self" 

Fr. Ed Malloy spoke on "Contemporary Moral Issues" last night on Contemporary Mora/Issues, in the Sacred Heart Crypt. See story at left. (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
Sidewalk circus coming Thursday to South Quad 
By BETSY PORTER 
News Staff 
A Sidewalk Circus is coming to Notre Dame this Thursday from 
12:15 to 1:15 in front ofSouth Dining Hall. 
The circus was incorporated into the Royal lichtenstein Circus by 
Fr. Nick Weber, aJesuit priest. The performers will act out fabAes and 
Biblical tales in the circus, as well as other humorous pieces. 
Notre Dame students will play an active role in the circus. They will help set up and publicize the event by travelling around on campus in clown costumes. 
The presentation ofthe circus, according to Mary Ann Roemer of Volunteer Services is "a fun thing for Spring." After a long cold win­ter, she thinks that people need a change ofpace and that the circus is something fun and frivolous to bring out the child in all of us. 
Last year was the first year that the circus performed here and over 
1,000 students and faculty attended. Roemer expects a good turnout 
again this year and hopes to make this an annual event. 
The circus is sponsored by the Student Union, The Center for Experiental Learning, and Campus Ministry and is free ofcharge. In case of rain the circus will be held in La Fortune Student Center. 

Monday, March 29, 1982 -page 2 
The nature of the beast 
ewsBrieb By The Observer and The Associated Press South Bend police arrestedfive Notre Dame students at Corby's Tavern Friday evening. Undercover officers took three men and two women into custody on charges of underage drinking at about 6:15p.m. The students were held at the South Bend police station while charges were processed and were then released on bail. -The Observer Live superstar entertainment never before available to colleges will debut via satellite in September through the Campus Entertainment Network. CEN announced today that it will launch its precedent-setting net­work with a major rock and roll concert beamed live to affiliate composes now being enrolled. Using giant screens and state-of-the art sound equipment, CEN plans four to six shows during the 1982-3 academic year. The CEN program lineup will include musical and theatrical extravaganzas which normally would not appear at colleges. "College students want superstars, but concert committees usual­ly can't affor to book them," says Bill Kornreich, CEN's director of programing. "And college halls have trouble accommodating the crowds supergroups draw. So the university circuit ends up with secondary or undiscovered performers." CEN's schedule ofevents and performers will be released shortly. Tickets prices, averaging 55 per event ­little more than a first-run movie -will make the Network appetizing to college students' of­ten limited entertainment budgets. "I was an avid concert goer as a student in the late seventies, but I still missed a lot of once-in-a-lifetime shows," recalls Brad Siegel, CEN's director of marketing. "My university couldn't attract much big-time entertainment. CEN will change all that for today's stu­dent." -The Observer The Israeli military said three Arab demonstrators were shot n the occupied West Bank on Sunday in the 1Oth straight day of anti-Israeli violence. Prime Minister Menachem Begin's Cabinet, meeting yesterday, endorsed the tough response the government is taking to the demonstrations. Israeli officials also said they have proofthe Palestine Uberation Organization was plotting a major uprising for May. An Israeli official was stoned in the village of Jaabed in the Jenin area, 40 miles north ofJerusalem, and a soldier wounded an Arab when he fired his rifle to break up the demonstra­tion, the military command said. Two Arabs were wounded by Is­raeli gunfire in a .riot in the same village two hours later, the command said The village was placed under curfew. Begin's spokes-' man Uri Porat confirmed a newspaper report saying that Israel had uncovered a plan by the PLO to call a civil uprising in the West Bank oftheJordan, to be combined with an Arab political offensive against Israel. He refused to give details. -AP About 20 percent of the Fort Wayne flood victims ' eligible for aid didn't apply for it last week at a disaster asistance center, but they will have a second chance this week. Anothercenter 1s set to open Monday morning. Since federal authorities declared three other northern Indiana counties disaster areas Friday, they've been working to set up similar disaster assistance centers in them this week. Aid residents in DeKalb, LaPorte and Marshall counties are eligible for include low-interest loans through the Small Business Administration, individual and family grant programs and up to $5,000 per family in cash. Local governments also are eligible for aid for public works projects, such as rebuilding roads and mending sewage treatment plants. Residents of DeKalb County can apply for assistance tomorrow in the DeKalb County Courthouse at Auburn, Marshall County residents can apply Wednesday in the National Guard Armory at Plymouth and LaPorte County residents can apply Thursday in the county courthouse annex at LaPorte. -AP Timothy Hutton Loretta Young, Gregory Peck and Bette Midler joined two dozen otherstars in Hollywood yesterday· in rehearsals for the costliest and perhaps the longest Academy Awards show ever. Last-minute touches were applied to Monday night's $2 million extravaganza by Marty Pasetta, who has directed the Oscar broadcast for 11 years. He predicted this year's showwill last about'3 hours. Why so long? "Because the board ofgovernors chose to give more honorary awards this year," the directorexplained. "Also there are five good nominated songs which allow us to produce up a storm." The biggest production at the Los Angeles Music Center will be for "For Your Eyes Only," from the James Bond film, which will feature lasers and on-stage explosions. The singer is Sheena Easton. The other nominees for original song and their Oscar night perfor­mers are "The First Time It Happens," by Kermit the Frog and Miss Piggy, "Endless Love," by Diana Ross and Uonel Richie, "One More Hour,"John Schneider, and "Arthur'sTheme," Chr i st>pherOo s s-:-I AP Saudi Arabiawarned Iran yesterday to stop alleged incitement torebellion ofShiite Moslems in Persian Gulfnations and said any Iranian action against the countries would be met "violently." The warning by Prince Naief, Saudi interior minister, followed months ofbitter exchanges between Saudi Arabia, which is predominately Sunni Moslem, and Iran, overwhelmingly Shiite; a minority Moslem sect. "(Iran has) ambitions to dominate the Arab coastline opposite to Iran, beginning with Bahrain and including all countries in the region, with the aim of establishing pro-Iranian regimes," he said. He also accused Iran ofinciting 73 Shiites in Bah­rain, who are being tried there for treason, to plot to overthrow the Bahrain government last December. ­AP Mosdy sunny and seasonably mild today. Highs in low 50s. Tonight increasing clouds with chance of rain developing towards morning. Breezy and mild with lows in the low to mid 40s. Rain likely tomorrow. Windy and mild with highs in mid to upper 50s. Chance ofrain 40 percent late today. -AP  

The Observer flag proudly proclaims the nature ofthe beast: "the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's." 
Observer readers, no doubt, largely neglect the un­obtrusive front page notation, particularly the part about being independent. 
A newspaper's independence means little to the average collegian. But there are stories that should make our readers glad The Observer has been able to remain independent. 
At DePaul in October, the university seized most copies of an edition in which a campus rape story ap­peared. According to Collegiate Hedlines, a newsletter about college papers, the DePaul administration, through the newspaper's moderator, told the student editors not to run the story. 
The administration felt this would protect the victim, but the paper's staffvoted unanimously to run the story, according to the report in Hedlines. Vince Kellen, editor of the DePaul paper, said the story did not in­clude the victim's name, nor some information that had appeared in local newspapers. 
A student-faculty-administration committee voted to release the seized editions a week later, and the univer­to cover the news responsibly and effectively, and we accept that responsibility gladly, ifwith some temerity at the difficulty ofthe task. 

In order to perform that task without the editorial or financial aid ofthe University, we need the help ofour readers -particularly students. Your response to our efforts, in the form of letters to the editor or more developed opinion pieces and feature articles, is not on­ly encouraged, but also essential to our development as your campus news source. 
Independence of the University makes dependence upon our readership all the more important. We are answerable to the readers in the fullest sense of the word. Without reader input, The Observer cannot im­
prove. 
sity paid reprinting costs. 
Such incidents are more common than they ought to be. Popular topics in these conflicts are socially del­icate issues, such as rape, abortion or racial prejudice. 
Notre Dame's administra­tion generally has held to a policy of non-interference with campus media A few years ago, student workers at WSND-AM broadcast a call-in show about sexual behavior. The students were banned from the station, be­cause of the show's content and the offensive language. But the University usually leaves the student media to the students. 

the independent student newspaper servtng 
notre dame and st. mary's 

Our editorial pages al­ways are ·open to reader comments, and our Showcase section is a fine place for campus artists to introduce their work to the 
community.  Reader  con­ 
tributions  are  always  
welcomed.  
And  we  need  to  be  

reminded occasionally of the stories and events our readers think we should be covering. We need to be congratulated or criticized, to help us fulfill our commit­ment to presenting all the news as effectively as pos­sible. 
Every year, the new editorial board considers 
The price ofindependence at The Observer is paid in several ways: Without a journalism school giving stu­dents credit for their work and without University funds to help pay attractive salaries, The Observer struggles to find employees who derive their rewards from their work alone; without an administration­appointed advisor providing expert guidance gained through years of experience, policy decisions must be made by staffers who are for the most part just learning the business -and those students must learn by doing rather than by listening. 
The price sometimes is paid in the quality of our product -stories are missed or covered poorly, un­popular editorial stances are taken or careless remarks are made by columnists. In many cases, the administra­tion suffers when we are less than our best. 
But, admirably, the administration has allowed us to work out our problems from within our own organiza­tion, without resorting to confiscation ofpapers or dis­ciplinary meaSures against our employees. 
We value the University's implied trust in our ability forsaking independence for the obvious benefits ofUni­versity involvement in our operation. So far, we have preferred to remain our own bosses. Perhaps incidents such as the one at DePaul discourage thoughts of uni­versity involvement. 
This decision places the bu'rden of quality control and responsibility squarely on the shoulders ofThe Ob­server -its staff and its readers. We believe that's the best way of"serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's." 
But that belief -and our independence -is meaningless unless our readers share in our mission. 
• 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not necessarily represent the views ofThe Observeror tts editorial board. 
Design Editor ................. Suzanne La Croix Design Assistant ......................... Tim Neely Typesetters............... Mark 'All Day' Miano News Editor .................................. Vic Sciulli CopyEditors ........................ .)oe Musumeci Features Layout........................ Tari Brown Editorial Layout.................... Paul McGinn Sports Copy Editor ............. Skip Desjardin Typtst .................................... )ohn McCarthy ND Day Edttor ..................... )oe Musumeci AdDesign ................................John & Chris Photographer ......................... Cheryl Ertelt Guest Appearances ....Assorted New Big­wigs Cooperative System Memories of Newport Beach Snoopy Securiry "And his heart broke for the llttle white rabbit...  
The Observer !USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col­lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556  


The Observer -Sports Monday, March 29, 1982 -page 3 

"'Lebanon and the Prospects of War and Peace in the Middle East" was the topic ofa conference this weekendfeaturing a series ofspeakers. See story at left. (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
Cotntnittee issues student centersurvey 
By TARI BROWN 
News Staff 
Acommittee authorized by the of­ficers and trustees of the University ha..' issued a questionaire to BOO stu­
dents  and  200  
faculty/administrative  staff  mem­ 
bers questioning the  adequacy of  
the  present  social  space  and  
facilitie~ on campus.  

The questionaire addresses the usc and location of Lafortune Stu­dent Center, the Engineering Auditorium and Washington Hall. It asks each respondant to indicate what services and facilities they think should be located in a central student center. The committee hopes that the responses they rece1ve will give them some direc­tion in fulfilling the need for social 
space. 
A<.·cording 10 the chairman of the committee, Dr. James M. McDon­nell, a questionaire of this kind has never been distributed before. Pre­vious studies have concentrated on the responses of faculty and staff rather than on the students them­selves. The committee wants to find out what the students believe is 
needed on campus tor social space 
Scoutmaster trappedin jersey cave 
LAFAYETTE, N.J. (AP)-A state 
trooper leading Boy Scouts on a 
spelunking expedition became 
stuck upside down in a cold, narrow 
crevice, and rescue workers drilled 
gingerly through rocks yesterday in 
an effort to reach him. 
Paramedics who reached thelegs of 48-year-old Scoutmaster Donald Wehner yesterday morning were unable to detect any sign oflife from the trooper sergeant, who got stuck at the waist at 3 p.m. Saturday. 
"We'll go on the premise that we still have a possibilility of rescuing him," said Col. Clinton Pagano, su­perintendent of the state police. "But what we've gotten so far is that there's no sign of life. The family has accepted the issue." 
Elaine Deluca, a registered nurse from Morristown Memorial Hospi­tal, said she spent an hour crawling toward Weltner, and was able to reach as far as his knees. She found no pulse. • 
"He was cold, very cold," she said. 
and facilities. 
McDonnell's committee's study is not the only one concerning student social space. Provost O'Meara is coordinating an alternate report, the Pace report, which deals with the same subject. The two studies differ in that McDonnell's committee is concerned with specific problems and solutions whereas O'Meara'a report is more general. 
The questionaires must be returned to Student Affairs by Friday, April 2. The report will be presented to the university officers and trustees in early May. 
Lebaneseconderence ~ 
U.S. policy called too general 
By Bill O'BRIEN 
News Staff 
The country of Lebanon is in a very dangerous state of affairs, said several prominent Lebanese scholars and American experts as­sembled at the: conference "Lebanon and the Prospects of War and Peace in the Middle East" this weekend. 
Cosponsored by the University of Notre Dame's Helen Kellogg In­stitute for International Studies and the American Lebanese League, the conference consisted of a series of speakers and panel groups discuss­ing the current plight of Lebanon. Khalil ltani, the Lebanese ambas­sador to the United States was one of the program's partiopants. 
The conferenced wa..~ aimed at providing a forum of exchange among Lebanese policy makers. Saturday morning's panel of speakers discussed Lebanon from a western political and religious perspective. 
The first speaker ofthe panel, Mic­hel Dory Chamoun, the Secretary General ofthe National Liberal Party of Lebanon, commented on foreign 
involvement  by  t:xpressing  great  
confidence  in  his  homeland.  
"Lebanon  shall  overcome  dif­ 

ficulties with or without the help of other countries." He said that faith in God and His teachings would give the Lebanese the necessary strength to survive. He added that Lebanon will recover its status as the intellec­tual and cultural nexus ofthe Middle East and remain "a haven of democracy." 
Fr. J. Bryan Hehir, the Director of the Office of International Justice and Peace of the li.S. Catholic Con­ference since 1973, discussed ec­clesiastical, moral, and political topics. The infusion of religious ele­ments in the political spectrum is prevalent in Lebanon as it is in many 
There willbe a Mandatory Meeting/orall news copy editors Tuesday at 6:30pm in THE OBSERVER office. 
• 
··Jn my jnh at the First .\atinnal Bank of Chica~o. Iam constantly usin~ tht· knnwletl~e acquin•d throu~h m1 parale~al tr.tinin~ at Rnnse\"elt. ·· 
-''"" Bnll bllllt.,.. 1\ 1lb an<lltu.<L' (;r•dualc 
LAWYER'S ASSISTANT: 
AGROWTH CAREER 
FOR THE SO's 
Trainin~ as a l.;~wvcr\ Assistant can ~:ivc ttlday's collq~c 
)Uaduatc a valuable ed~:c in the job market Entry-lcvd positions in the Chil"a~o area pav as much as 512.00010 Sl '\.000-and some paralegals arc now t:arnin~: as mu~·h as 53.2.000. 
It takes just thrt:c months of davtimc studv (six months in the evcnin~) to prepare for a carcc.r as a l.;~wvi:r's Assi~tOillt. The pro)Uam at Roosevelt llnivcrsit)" is the lar~:est A.R.A.-approvcd pro!Uam in Illinois. and its record of graduate cmplovment assistw~·e is the best there is. 
FOR INFORMATION AND A FREE BROCHURE CALL(312)341-3882 OR MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY! 
ARECRUITER WILL BE ON CAMPUS APRIL 7, 1982. 
ROOSEVElT lTNIVERSITY Lawyer's Assistwt Program HO S. Michigan Avc.. Chicago. Ill. 6060'\ 
-~ 
ln ct•opt:rathm With The l'ialttm:.ll <.t·mc:r fur P.ualt:~ 'l'r:untnf( 
•
Please send me acopv of the Roose\'Citl.a~ver"s Assistant Pru~r.un catalog. 
Iam interested in the 0 Chicago or 0 ArUngton Heights location. 
~amt· 
At.h.Jr~~ 
~[OUt' /.I 
Homc:!Jhonc: liu~lnt'!t..' Phum: 
Approved for V.A. wd Ill. State Guaranteed Loans 
Ro<!M'\"eltl'ni,·crsiiY admits all students on the ha.•i• of indi\·idual merit and Without rCII"fd In race. l"Otor. sex or al(e. 
other countries experiencing trouble right now, such as Poland, Hehir believes. The freedom, security, and independence of the various religious communites of Lebanon Christian, Moslem, Jewish, and others -could disap­pear if the country is assimilated by the norms of the their neighboring 
countries. 
Hehir believes that traditional U.S. policy toward Lebanon is too broad ifits goal is to preserve a democratic Lebanon. The United States should narrow its scope to a more "regional" level and shape external tactors, as opposed to internal ones so Lebanon can shape its own des­tiny. 
Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs Morris Draper agreed with Hehir's support of a more regional U.S. policy towards Lebanon, maintammg that the country will play a crucial role in the future of the Middle East. Draper believes that President Reagan realizes this situation and has suffi­ciently responded to their problems thus fJ.r. There must be stability in the Middle East and, in achieving this end, said Draper, "a free and united Lebanon must be preserved and enhanced." 
~tudent Affairs accepting Senior Fellownominations 
By TIM PETI'ERS 
StaffReporter 
The Senior Fellow Committee is now accepting nominations for this year's Senior Fellow award, accord­ing to Ralph Horgan, committee chairman. The Senior Fellow is selected by the Senior Class each year as someone who embodies the spirit ofthe class. 
Horgan said that the Senior Fellow should be someone who has an as­sociation with Notre Dame, has in­spired and affected peoples lives, and who incorporates Christian values in his life. He should be a per­son t who encourages and stimulates people to think about "who we are 
and what we are doing." Horgan asked that seniors submit nomina­tions to the Senior Fellow Commit­tee in care of the Office of Student Affairs. The committee will take the 
most popular nominations, eliminate those names that are not feasible, and put the rest on a ballot. The Senior Class will elect their Fel­low from this list. 
THE OBSERVER 
NEEDS PHOTOGRAPHERS! 
This is a paid position with many fringe benefits. Darkroom experience a must. Bring resume and samples of your 
work to the OBSERVER Office (3rd floor LaFortune) by March 31. 

Goafather's Pizza_., 

DELIVERING to NOTRE DA~IE and SAINT MARY'S 

(),-./..,-the· f.\11/?/-'.\.\ /)/-1.1\ Fl?:: 
Medium, -pepperoni 
-sausage Or combo 
sPm -10:30Pm Fri. and Sat. 5Pm -12:30Am 
-free Coke: 1 Liter wl Med. Pizza 2 Liters wI Large Pizza 

r-­
I 
1 The Observer 

Salvadoran troops search and question people last Thursday following a firefight between government and rebel forces in the 
capital city. Elections wereyesterday. (APLaserpboto.) 
Monday, March 29, 1982 -page 4 
Touchdowntooay 
Columbialandsat makeshift port 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla, (AP) ­
Columbia's astronauts polished offa 
few scientific tasks yesterday, gave 
their spacecraft systems an 
encouraging once-over, and 
prepared for today's final test: lan­
ding the shuttle at a makeshift 
spaceport erected on the white 
sands ofNew Mexico. 
Astronauts jack R Lousma and C. 
Gordon Fullerton were to touch 
down aL 12:27 p.m. (MST) on the 
Northrop Strip of White Sands 
Missile Range, a barren back-up site 
hurriedly equipped to receive the billion-dollar space plane. 
David Novlan, the range's chief weather forecaster, saw "nothing frightening" for landing, but said problems could crop up. Partly cloudy skies and afternoon wind gusts of 28 mph or higher were pos­sible weather, but made no change in plans. 
The astronauts said landing would give them "a 100 percent mission," and they appeared relaxed and hap­py on yesterday. They beamed down a hygienic performance: Fullerton squirted some paste from a tube, let it drift into his mouth, and brushed his teeth. He picked up a hairbrush, remembered he is bald, shrugged and tossed it into weightlessness. 
Columbia's Flight 3 landing site 
recalls a thousand western novels: 
white, bright sand stretching from 
mountain to mountain, a monotony 
broken only by dull-green and 
brown scrubbrush. A trailer town 
has grown around the two runways 

Join us for Student Specials 35¢ draft specialisback, everynight 8 pmtil closing. 
Open till3 am daily Mon.-Sat. 
Carry out til 3 a_m daily 
Beer ,.Win~, Liquor 

[8] 

,_A_
and Food to Go campus
Pinball, Pool, Video Games 
. 
angela
(I) 


easy to find 
WE HONOR 
easy to get to
BOTH 
south st. 511 South Michigan Street, South Bend 
You must havepicture ID that says you are 21. 
that crisscross the floor of the Tularosa Basin. 
The shuttle landing had its gold­rush aspects. Hundreds of cars, trucks and campers already were in line early yesterday to be among the 80,000 that will be allowed onto the super secret base. A safety official said the post-landing logjam could stack up cars for 75 miles. 
The Army cautioned spectators to bring a 12-to-14 hour supply offood and water and rented 130 portable toilets for $75 apiece. Spectactors will be five miles from the runway; television will provide a better view, but nothing to tell the grandchildren about. 
If the strip's malevolent winds don't change plans, Lousma and Fullerton are to land on the 116th orbit after 7 days, 3 hours and 27 minutes since launch from Cape Canaveral. 
Space officials held open their op­tion of landing an orbit early, if necessary, to beat the wind. Colum­
bia also could extend its stay ­ fuel,  
power and food are plentiful.  
Lousma,  a  deacon  in  a  non­ 

denominational community church in Texas, sent a Sunday message of thanks yesterdayto people who have prayed for the success ofFlight 3. 
"While we are not there to wor­ship \'{ith them physically," he said, "we are worshipping with them in spirit from this unique vantage point." 
Reagannot-successful, accordingto Time poll 
NEW YORK (AP) -Most people interviewed for a Time magazine poll released yesterday say they have doubts about President Reagan's overall job performance and hope he does not run for a second term. 
The poll, conducted for Time by Yankelovich, Skelly and White Inc., also . found a majority does not believe the presidentcan successful­ly cut taxes, raise defense spending and balance the federal budget at the same time. 
Thirty percent of those ques­tioned in the survey said they believed Reagan's personality was his strongest quality, with 16 per­cent saying they believed his 
••.........•...........•..•..•..•
.
.
.
.
.
. ~March of ~Dimes 
~ SAVES BABIES. .
. .
. .
. .
··••············•••····•·······•• 
programs were his biggest strength. However, 52 percent said they hoped Reagan would not seek a second term, with 37 percent taking the opposite view. 
In addition, 51 percent of the respondents had general "doubts and reservations" about Reagan, up from 43 percent three months ago. 
The survey also said 61 percent of those polled believed it would be "impossible" for Reagan to keep his promise to balance the budget while cutting taxes and increasing Pen­tagon spending. 
The magazine said 28 percent of those polled said they had "no real confidence" in Reagan's ability to handle the economy, up from 22 percent in a poll released three months ago. 
In its analysis ofthe findings, Time said the survey "demonstrates a troubling loss ofpopular support for the Reagan presidency. But it also suggests that, like presidents before him, Reagan has simply passed through the period ofmild euphoria that attends the early months ofeach new administration." 
The poll, conducted by telephone 
interviews of I,019 people between 
March 16 and 18, has a margin ofer­
ror ofplus or minus 3 percent. 
Ir-------------------------illolyCrossFathers I 
I I 
1I Vocation Counseling II 
I I H I I
1 ow do I know I if I have a vocation to the priesthood? I 
I ---I 
I Wat is the academic 
I 
~ and formation program for becoming a priest? 1I ---------------Wat ~holarships and I 
1 financial aid are available for seminary training? I 
I I I ''~' I
1 What are the various 1 I apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? I 
I H I 
I ow do I pray 
I 1 if I'm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood 1 1
I and I'm not sure? 1 
I I 
I I 
For a personal. conhdentlalmtef\lt''J. ~J.IIh no obllqdllon I
I I
please v.ntt:> or call the \OC:dl1on d1rt'Ctor 
I Re, -\roJr,· L<•"••ll<• ' , , I 
Bo\ 541
I I
"1otrt· Ddmt· lnd -l65%
I I
For appo1nllll•.nt
I 
Cdll bt'IV.t't'll 8 30 ;j Ill
1 II I
and 4 30 p 111 
1 phone: I
1 219239-63ss 1 I I 
~-------------------------~ 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Monday, March 29, 1982 -page 5 
Fifth annual 
SMC sponsors OpportunityWeek 

By Saint Mary's Information Seroices 
The fifth annual Women's Oppor­tunity Week, sponsored by the Saint Mary's College student government, will be held at the College today through April 3. The week's series of lectures will examine the myriad challenges facing today's woman. All lectures are open to the public with­out charge. 
Tonight author John Molloy will give a talk at 7:30 in Moreau Hall's Little Theatre. Molloy is a wardrobe consultant and nationally syndi­cated newspaper columnist, and will present his views on dressing and living for succc:ss for career women today. Dress for Success is one of Molloy's several books. Pat Reynolds, a 1955 graduate of Saint Mary's, will be a guest speaker tomorrow at 7 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. A teacher of freshman religion at Marillac High School in Northfield, IL, Reynolds is a chaplain at Glenbrook Hospital and has coordinated retreats and workshops, panels and talks address­ing topics such as addiction, grief and ministry. Reynolds, who is the mother of six children, was named 
1978 Woman of the Year by the 
Notre Dame Club of Chicago. 
Jane Trahey, a columnist, author and president ofTrahey Advertising, Inc. of Chicago and New York will also be a guest speaker tomorrow at 8 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. In addi­tion to writing the monthly column 
Works for Church 
KofC celebrates centennial today 
By STEPHEN C. SMITH 
AssociatedPrr!ss 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. (AP)-To 
thousands of Catholics, they're the 
men wearing plumed hats and 
brandishing silver swords during 
special church celebrations -the 
Knights of Columbus, regarded by 
many as the most powerful lay group 
In the American Catholic Church. 
On Monday, "the Order" 
celebrates its centennial with a Mass 
and the re·entombment of the 
remains of its founder, the Rev. Mic· 
hael ). McGivney, in St. Mary's Church here. 
It was there 100 years ago that McGivney, concerned with the plight of destitute widows and or­phans of working men, founded the Knights of Columbus. The priest, championed by the Knights as a can­didate for sainthood, later es­tablished one of the first insurance programs in the nation for industrial workers -the cornerstone for the 
more than S6 billion worth of in­
surance the order carries today for 
its members. 
From humble beginnings in the 
small working-class church, the 
Knights have grown into a 1.35­
million·member organization that 
la.~t year donated an estimated $40 
million and 9 million man-hours to 
charity, in addition to providing 
pageantry at church celebrations. 
The Knights have 7, 1 56 local 
councils and lodges worldwide. 
More than 1 millionmembers of the 
organization live in the llnited States 
and there are some 200,000 Knights 
in Canada, about 4S,OOO in the 
Philippines, 9,000 in Mexico, 3,000 
in Puerto Rico and smaller numbers 
-"u"u-• ,.......,,,..._,..._._.,. 
Rocco's Hair Styling ! 
e 531 N. Michi,g m St.,i 
South Ber!J 
Phone-233-4957 

L........,a,....uau~u••....••••••"·'~l 
in Guatemala, Panama, the Virgin Is­lands, the Dominican Republic and other countries. 
Insurance revenues provide most of the income for the order's charity programs, but Supreme Knight Vir­gil C. Dechant says the organization is not interested in profits. 
"The insurance revenues, certain­ly, are very valuable to us because they supply the wherewithal for much of this work," said Decchant, who worked his way up in a state chapter in Kansas before coming to New Haven as assistant supreme secretary in 1966. "We're tax ex­empt and that implies that we must use the money that we don't pay in taxes for charitable works and we try to do that." 
Photographers... 
Writers... 
Layout Designers ... 
Typists... 
Former High School Yearbook Staffers ... ... the 1983 DOME Yearbook needs you. Please contact Jane at 239-7524 between 6pmand 10pm Monday and Tuesday, March 29 and 30. Paid Editorial and Staff Positions available. 
51st ANNIVERSARY 
ROCKNE MEMORIAL MASS &BREAKFAST Sunday,April4, 1982 
MASS: 8:15AM, South Dining Hall BREAKFAST: 9:15AM South Dining Hall GUEST SPEAKER CoachGerryFaust SPECIAL GUESTS Members of the 
Rockne Family 1982 Football Tri-Captains: 
Phil Carter, Dave Duerson, Mark Zavagnin 
SPECIAL FEATURE _ During breakfast there will be a screening of a recent Knute Rockne documentary film 
narrated by actor Cliff Robertson For 
additional information call the Alumni 
Office at (219) 239-6000, or Tom Kirschner 
(in the evening) at 234-3 790. 
"Working Women," Trahey is the author of several books including "Thursday 'Till Nine," "Jane Trahey on Women and Power," and "Life With Mother Superior." Moore as been named Ad Woman ofthe Year for 1970 and 1972, and was named one of the 100 Most Accomplished Women by Harper's Bazaar. 
Bette Anderson, a director of In­ternational Telephone and Telegraph and consultant in Wash­ington, D.C., wiU be the guest speaker on Wednesday, March 31 at 8 p.m. in Carroll Hall in the Madeleva classroom building. An­derson, the first woman to be named Under Secretary of the Treasury in 1977, was affiliated with the Citizens 
and Southern National Bank of Savannah, GA, for 27 years. She also served as national president of the National Association of Bank Women and was the director of te Savannah Chamber of Commerce. On Wednesday, Anderson will dis­cuss women in management and methods ofdealing with stress. 
The guest speaker on Thursday, April I, will be Elizabeth Carlton Moore, who will lecture at 7 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. An author, analyst, educator, economist and congressional aide, Moore is an authority on solar energy and has played a major role in planning and drafting major solar legislation that passed both houses ofCongress. 
Aprill-Thurs.-6-Bp.m. Haggar Hall Auditorium Guest from Illinois Univ. will share experienceswith equipment and legality of drinking, driving, and student involvement. 

~source 
Notre Dame 239-7080 
..:Travel 
P.O. Box 1602St. Mary's South Bend, IN 46634 284-5606 236-2656 
Come join one of our Escorted Tours. 
0 May 14-16-Brown County-Rolling green hills, overnight at Carrousel's Brown County Inn. Activities for all ages! $225 
0 May 20-23-Las Vegas-Glittering! Ever Exciting! $429 
0 July 9-11-Greenfield VIllage and Windsor! Step Into history! $190 
0 July 16 or August 24-Four Days -Knoxville and the World's Fair. Educational and Fun! $295 
0 July 26-August 15-China '82-Our third tour directed by Geraldine Hatt. See ancient China and the new emerging China! $3,450 
0 August 8-18-Going Up To Jerusalem-Our Eighteenth Pilgrimage! Spiritual Leader, Father Edward O'Connor, Notre Dame. Directed by George Ambler. $1,775 
0 August 15-22-Alaska '82-Cruise the Inside Passage on Costa's Spectacular MTS Daphne! From $998 
0 August 28-Sept. 2 -Historic Mackinac Island -Soo Locks-Ride on the Algoma Railroad In Canada's wilds. Directed by George Ambler, $385 
0 September 16-19-Nashville and the Grand Ole Opry! For all you Country-Western fans! $292 
0 October 2-24 -Down Under '82 -Visiting New Zealand, Australia, and Fiji! Directed by Geraldine Hatt. 
0 November 6-13-Celebrate The Caribbean-A cruise aboard the Costa Lines World Reniassance! Great Fun! From $935 
To receive more information, check those tours of interest, clip this ad and mail to 1st Source Travel or call one of our convenient offices. 
Name ------------------------------------­
Phone: Home Business 
Address 
City State Zip 
-----------~ ---------------~---------·---­
Monday, March 29, 1982 -pa.ge 6 
r Editorials 
Are Notre Dame students above the law? 
The idea of law is not to punish but Tipped off about possible hashish use as the student arrested in Rome was store security, students are turned over expediency? Will he assume that his to protect. Legislators are elected to by Notre Dame students at lnnsbruck, dismissed and sent home. to the University for "punishment." truthfulness on his income tax return is look after the common good of society the Austrian government informed Both episodes point to the ways in · With a "harsh" warning from Dean a matter devoid of ethical judgement? through the enactment and constant Notre Dame officials to take care ofthe which the affluent are above the law. Roemer, the student returns to his fel­Will he ask his children to obey only reappraisal of statutes. While the Uni­situation or else the government would Instead of allowing students to receive low classmates, recounting the events _"good" laws? versity of Notre Dame portends to fol­arrest the students. the full brunt of the law, the University of the "exciting" adventure. This is no If the University is to truly gain the low the guidelines of authorities, it In its usual mysterious way, the creates its own justice system, case ofan • 'inferior'' foreign legal sys­respect it deserves, it must move to often ignores civil and criminal laws in University "took care of the superseding the laws of free · tem which is not good enough for obey the letter of the law -no matter favor of its in loco parentis theme. problem." What is truly interesting is democratic societies. upright Americans -this is the whose daughter or son is involved. The 
In condoning such reactions toward American legal system, brought about University must forego its in loco principles of justice, the University is in !l:!_e~irit of "Equalit}' under law." parentis philosophy, a philosophy
Paul Roper McGinn 

playing the part of saboteur. Seeming­To be sure, the drug and shoplifting which squashes each student's right to ly, the laws of Austria are too harsh for events will hold no consequence in the decide between right and wrong, and such clean-cut American boys and course of human existence, but the the consequences attached to eachToo often this guiding hand of 
girls. very ease with which these affluent decision.
parentship helps affluent students The lnnsbruck program provides Notre Dame students circumvented na­If the University fails to introducedodge the pitfalls of criminal punish­students with the opportunity to live as tional and state laws seems appalling. its students to the outside world of painment as these youngsters are "too Austrians -in all phases of that par­If one were to look for models in the and hardship, the University implicitly fragile'' to be exposed to the harshness ticular culture. A signed contract binds business world, where would he turn? grants each student the right to buyof this brutal world. 
students to the laws and precepts of the Hopefully he would turn toward Chris­himself out of any unpleasant cir­The recent Angers and lnnsbruck Austrian nation. Clearly, each student tian men and women who lived e~­cumstances, circumstances which thedrug incidents stand as prime examples was aware of the consequences of emplary lives. Yet the most brilliant of student many times brings upon him-of how affluent Notre Dame students 
breaking the law. Catholic men and women are suddenly -self.
rise above the law in times of crisis. 
The recent shoplifting occurrences the subjects of question. The-University must not seek to in­When entering a Vatican museum at Martin's Supermarket enforces the Is not the law good enough for Mr. still a socio-economic hierarchy within this past January a vacationing student theme of the double standards. While well-to-do Catholic, graduate of Notre society; Notre Dame must seek toof the Notre Dame Angers program poor, uneducated people are thrown in Dame? What happens when the Notre prepare its students to live as lawtripped a metal detector .vhich had prison for petty theft, wealthy Notre Dame graduate faces legal problems abiding members of a just world. 
been installed after the recent attempt that Fr. Hesburgh was in Austria at Dame students are left virtually un­on the corporate level? Will he sudden­on the pope's life. When the student about the time the investigation scathed. After being apprehended by ly decide to forego the laws in favor of 
was examined, 50 grams of hashish surfaced. were discovered, wrapped in Officially, the University dismissed aluminum foil. 21 students involved in the hashish 
During a preliminary investigation incident. Twenty of the students in Rome, the student remained in jail remain in Austria, each able to reapply 
'Slowball' reflects college scene 
for two days until University officials to the University come next fall. Only :!<:gotiated the student's release. The one of the students was sent home im­student then returned to Angers, free to mediately, supposedly having beep in­College basketball fans already During the nationally-televised At­We're annoyed by young continue his studies. volved in similar experiences before. know their favorite pastime has lantic Coast Conference final, for ex­Americans who want to "play it safe" 
Throughout January, Austrian au­Strangely enough, it seems as become infected by "slowball," an of­ample, slowball took control of the in the classroom as well as in the thorities had been watching drug though the case in Rome, which had ten malignant form oforganized "keep game. For the last eight minutes, neit­fieldhouse. Too many of today's stu­dealing as part of their usual duties. been almost forgotten, was completed away'' that drives spectators bananas. her the University of Virginia dents rarely budge from the path of Cavaliers nor the North Carolina Tar­least resistance. "Their only focus is to heels put one up. On instructions from do what's required to secure a job after the bench, the guys simply dribbled college," explained one instructor at
A Salvadorean's 1whole'picture 
away the game. the University of California at Los An­geles.Leopoldo Abrego, a fifth-year ar­Afghanistan or Poland they are another fact nobody in the media has
not chitecture student, presents a personal called "guerrillas"? They are called bothered to publicize. Maxwell Glen While it's an understandable look at the crisis in his native El Sal­"freedom fighters." What is the dif­When the opposition was invited to response to today's pressures, such be­
participate in the elections, it was un­
vador. ference between them and the people havior may tum carefully-planned
and Cody Shearer 
I am tired of reading articles and in El Salvador who are also fighting for der the condition that only two of the careers into "victories" of the Pyrrhic their freedom and the establishment of nature. Refusing to diverge from the
watching news about what is going on seven parties would be allowed to run. 
Ordinarily, such shoddy gamesman­
in El Salvador, news that seldom gives a truly democratic government? The FOR as a whole could not par­safe game plan doesn''t afford one 
I know some of these so-called ship would merit comment only on the
an unbiased pict.ure of what is happen­ticipate. They formed a unified coali­much experience. Taking classes in 
"guerrillas" who are fighting for sports pages. Angry comparisons to
ing. I am also tired of little cartoons in tion with a responsible political one or two fields can't engender much the corners of newspapers making fun­something in which they believe, and platform and a very effective organiza­last summer's baseball strike are in­breadth. Steadfastly dismissing chal­
evitable.
ny remarks about something that is they are neither Communist nor Mar­tion and were not ready to lose all lenges for the sake of consistency 
-Yet there's something more unset­
taking the lives of thousands of people xists; they are simply looking for a which they had gained for the sake of a won't make so much sense later on. 
more just society and believe that tling about slow ball's reception in Ofcourse, the link between slowball 
and bringing suffering to many more. non-representative election. Thirty-two thousand people have armed insurrection is the only ~iable The FMLN-FDR is represented all college arenas. Slowball meshes per­and career-crazed students is fanciful. been killed in little over two years in a wa_I remaining: over the world and is recognized by But it may be useful to imagine oneself 
fectly with the growing attitude among 
country with a population of five mil­These people were not social out­France, Mexico and Italy as a college types to succeed at any cost. as a spectator of one's own life. What Never mind healthy athletic competi­
lion and roughly the size of Massachu­casts either; they were from middle­"representative belligerent force" as have we ducked today? 
tion. Too much is at stake in life to justsetts. Most of these deaths have been class families and had brilliant futures 
determined by the Geneva Accords. 
have fun. Copyright 1982, Field Syndicate
c~>used by the army and paramilitary ahead of them. They gave up all.ofthis 
-InclUded in the leadership of the 
g ·oups protected by the army. This has and joined poor farmers, landless FOR are highly respected intellectuals been documented beyond any doubt by peasants and poverty-striken urban and businessmen, mostofthem former dwellers to fight for what they believe. 
church groups, Amnesty Internation­government officials who have first­al, and the Legal Aid Office of the Several of these friends have been hand experience in running govern­killed . 
. \rchbishoprie. ments. They are not "communist This killing is not just the result of In the last two years, the opposition puppets controlled from Havana and parties have been unified under the
"Marxists" or "communists backed Moscow,'' but individuals who cry out by the Soviet Union guerrillas" trying name of "Frente Democratico against the blood and suffering and to change the government. It is the Revolucionario" (FOR). These seven who continually move toward the es­are political
result of decades of oppression of the parties the side of the tablishment of the first just and truly most basic human rights to the people struggle for liberation. Their representative government in El Sal­of El Salvador. ideologies cover a wide spectrum, ran­
vador. Two percent of the population own ging from representatives of the busi­
These are only some of the issues of ness sector, church groups, and Social 
60 percent of the land. Hundreds of the "whole" picture of El Salvador. I 
thousands of landi.,ss peasants remain Democrats to the Communist Party. hope I have helped to explain some of illiterate as a means for exploitation by (The Communist Party is the smallest the most pressing of those issues. the wealthy few. group of them alit_ 
What is happening in El Salvador is Beside the fact that all the . main NOT a revolution exported by the people in this coalition are on the offi­Soviet Union. The fighting is the result cial death lists put out by the military, of a popular outcry for liberation. and besides the fact that there has not 
Have you noted that when people been a honest democratic election in El are fighting for liberty in countries like Salvador in almost fifty years, there is 




Editorial Board Department Managers 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Editor-in-Cbief. ............................. Michael Monk BusinessManager............................. Tony Aiello University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Managing Editor..........,.....Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller............................................. Eric Schulz 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­
Executive News Editor.........................Kelli Flint AdvertisinG Manager ....................... Chris Owen ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of 
SMC News Editor.....................Margaret Fosrnoe Production Manager .................. Maura Murphy a majority of the Editorial Board. Co.nmentaries, opinions and letters are the views 
Sports Editor ................................... Chris Needles Circulation Manager ..........................Ray lnglin of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
Editorials Editor ..............................Paul McGinn Systems Manager ........................... Bruce Oakley the free expression of varying opinions on campu5, through lctten, ii encour3Bed. Features Editor ................................... Tari Brown 
Photo Editor................................... Rachel Blount -Founded November 3, 1966 
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
S H0 W C A~SiiiiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiii!iiiiiiiiiiiMiiiii. Marchiiiiiiii29,19iiiiiii82p~age
ondayiiiiiii, 7 

''Buffalo ' ' :afresh approach 
""J"1his weekend marked the close 
.1 ofthe 1981-1982 ND/SMC Theatre Second Scene Series with performances Friday and Saturday night of David Marner's play American Buffalo. Mamet has been acclaimed as America's best young playwright and has done several other well known pieces, including the screenplay for the film, The 
Postman Always Rings Twice, and Buffalo is an excellent example of 
his incisive style. 
Joe Musumeci 
Mamet's work is a brilliant study of the "American" condition: trust, deceit, friendship and our no­longer-so Puritan work ethic. The plot centers around three junkshop operators and their plan to make the big time with a heist ofvaluable coins from a collector, a sort ofper· version ofthe American dream. Marner's characters are all law­breakers-for the law of"Buffalo" is not the law ofthe courts or the board room, but ofthe heart; and hearts are what are being broken here. 
The acting in the production was generally quite good. Chris Block played Donny Dubrow, the ownerof the junkshop, a man fighting middle age with daily infusions ofyogurt. Block's portrayal of Donny lost a little of its strength towards the close ofthe play, and his voice lacked somewhat ofmodulation, but his characterization ofthe stolid 
Dubrow was quite good. 
Eddie Moreno as Dubrow's go-fer, 
Bobby, seemed to play the part ofa much younger character than Mamet envisioned, but captured the feigned innocence ofthe pawn playing both sides ofthe chessboard. Moreno seemed to warm to his characteras the plc>t progressed, and his closing scene with Block worked very well. 
Raul Aportela shone as Walt "Teach" Cole, Dubrow's associate. Aportela provided a brilliant com­bination ofnervous anxiety, sincere concern and street-wise savoie faire. At times brilliantly funny, at times al­most pathetic, he made the best of the coarse, nco-poetic dialogue provided for the part. Aportela's per­formance avoided caricature and became a thoroughly enjoyable and moving protrayal. Interchanges be­tween Aportela and Block com­prised the majority ofthe performance, and at times their rap­port had the air ofthe very best com­edy teams, with a painfully realistic edge. 
Direction, set design, and light design were all by Doug Kreitzberg, and it is here that this play impressed the most. The original set of American Biijfalo was a very linear, symmetrical arrangement designed to simulate the actual ap­pearance ofa j unkshop. Kreitzberg split his set into levels, and at the same time simplified the basic ele­ments of of it: some platforms, a door, a railing, a ramp -all very crisp and clear (the floor ofthe set was even whitewashed); around and upon this set were scattered various pieces ofreal junk -bicycle frames, ropes, even a section ofa very real chain fence. A controlling image of the play was a wheelbarrow of junk, opening and closing each act alone 
· in a bright circle oflight; when the heist is blown and the characters all begin to question each other's loyalty and friendship, Teach over­turns the wheelbarrow and the audience sees a load ofgarbage spilled across the set, along with the souls and aspirations ofthe the characters. The lighting was intel­ligently and innovatively conceived; each act began with the stage in darkness, except for the spot on the barrow, and the stage was lit gradually in sections, more or less following the actors across set. The actual operation ofthe lights, however, lacked in crispness and precision, and opening night, the lighting arrangement was plagued by a large cold spot which left Block in shadow during much ofhis per­formance. 
One ofthe highlights ofthe show was the live jazz/blues band which played before the show and did background during portions ofboth acts. Paul Bertolini, Greg D'Alessandro, Mike Daly and Tom Kovacevic added an extra dimen­sion to the show with very com­petent playing. 
In Friday's "Showcase", a preview ofthe play made the comment that the Second Scene shows, because they are "usually student run ... exude a special creative energy that comes from the pure act ofplaying with the text, with the staging, and with the acting." This special quality was especially evident in this weekend's production, despite afew minor technical flaws; the heap of real and figurative junk with which Mamet and Krcitzberg covered "Buffalo" could neither hide nor diminish a gleam ofbrilliance. 
Technique riddles string duo 
T ast '11tursday evening, the Saint 
LMary's College Performing Arts Series presented the Brady/Stalker String Duo. The performance by Janet Brady (violin) and Stephen Stalker (cello) was the sixth and final event ofthe Series. 
Dexter Brewer 
The evening's performance failed to rise above solid mediocrity. The concert opened with Beethoven's Piano Trio, Opus I, No.j, Oeffrey Jacob, pianist). The piece is among Beethoven's earlier works, and though it betrays some "typically Beethoven" passages, it is more true to the classical traditions of the late 18th century than those ofthe early 19th, which is when it was written. 
The Brady/Stalker/jacob perfor­mance left this author with no memorable moments. The Opus 1, 
No. 3 is played often in duet recitals, and yet the general rule is that few performances do more than add themselves to the already lengthy list ofpast mediocrities. Thursday night's performance was "well­calculated;" i.e., there were well planned and well execmedfortes, pianos andpianissimos; there were well executed tempos. But there was adistinct lack ofintimacy be­
tween the peformers and Beet­
hoven's score. There was no 
exception made to the "general 
rule." 
Mr. Stalker was alone on stage for the second piece of the concert. Giving an unforgivably bland "execution" ofBach's C Major Suite 
for Unaccompanied Cello, he failed 
to impart to the listener any insights 
into Bach's work, and he appeared to 
suffer physically from the technical 
demands ofthe piece. His perfor­
mance was incomplete -incom­
plete because he never rose above 
technical problems (which was 
evidenced by the fact that he played 
with music before him) to give an in­
terpetation ofthe work; incomplete 
because Stephen Stalker was 
noticeably absent from his perfor­
mance. 
In the third piece, Roger Brigg's Ascent, the duo (withJacob on piano) came closer to presenting an interpretation efthe composer's work. Although the violinist and the cellist suffered from intonation problems and other fuults oftech­nique, still the trio gave the listener some idea ofthe cerebral qualities the composer had in mind when he composed "Memory," ( 1st part) and the diabolical fury he envi­sioned for "Purgation" (2nd part). 
Aperformance of Kodaly'sDuo for Violin andCello, riddled with all the aforementioned problems ofthe duo, ended the: concert. 
The Brady/Stalker String Duo will accompany the ND!SMC Theatre Department Spring Dance Concert on Apri/2, 3 and 4, in O'Laughlin A~lditorium. 
Cough llledicines just for hacks 
M
y life has been dominated for the past tour days by coughing. I must have coughed almost as often as I've breathed. 
Coughing is one ofthe least attractive things we do in public and I hate to do it but Ican't stop myself Ihave acold or a virus orsome flu bug, and it seems to have settled in the spot just below my throat where that indentation is between the collarbones. 
When I was young and peole coughed as much as I have the last few days, they were said to have "comsumption." I don't know where that word came from. The more knowledgeable word was "tuberculosis." 
I don't have either ofthose. I have a cough. I don't smoke 
cigarettes and I know my body well enough to be sure I don't have 
any dread disease. 
I did some work in Florida over the weekend. The temperature hit 
90 degrees one day, and 
Floridawhen it's 90 degrees is 
the worst place to be with a 

Andy Roonfty
coughing cold. It's humid and • 
when you're inside you need 
air conditioning. Air con­
ditioning, as we all know, is a 
cold's best friend. A cold loves iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
air conditioning. 
My wife has been sympathetic enough about my cold. She's been properly worried and keeps saying things like, "You ought to take care ofyourself," but it hasn't helped. Not only that, but even though Ican tell she genuinely feels sorry for me, I've noticed acertain edge in her voice a couple oftimes. She wouldn't say it but 1know what she wants to say. She wants to burst out loud and yell, "Will youfor 
goodness sake stop that infernal coughing!" It's irritating to have someone around you coughing all the time. No matter how much you try to keep yourselffrom thinking it, you always have the sneakingsuspicion they could stop coughing ifthey really wanted to. When I was a kid I coughed a lot when I had a cold and I have an annoying way ofdearing my throat even when I'm not sick. I'm more aware ofthis now than I used to be because two of my four grown children do it. Drives me crazy. "Stop dearing your throat," I want to yell at them, as I clear my throat. 
I've never found a legal cough syrup or cough drop that did any­thing at all for my cough. There was one 10 or 1 5 years ago that helped, but it had more codeine in it than the law allows now, so you can't buy it today without a prescription. Idon't go to a doctorwhen I have a cold, no matter how bad it Is. I figure I've probably had more colds than he has and Iknow just as much, maybe more, about them. All the doctor can do is give you medicine that's stronger than is good for you for a superficial ailment. I don't take much medicine, not beca~se ofany religious conviction or anything like that but be­cause anything you can buy without a prescription probably doesn't work. 
As kids we used to argue about whether the black licorice Smith Brothers Cough Drops were best or whether the menthol ones in the yellow package were. 
In desperation the other day I bought a package ofLuden's Men­thol Cough Drops. That's a familiar old package I remember with af­fection, too, and I thought perhaps over the years they'd learned how to sneak something into their cough drops that would really help a cough. No such luck. 
Ipaid 35 centsfor 15 cough drops. That's only a little more than 2 cents each and you can't expect a miracle drug for that. The front of the package says they're "medicated." I don't know what that word could be broadened to include, but when you look further on the package for all the active ingredients, there are just two. Luden's Menthol Cough Drops are made ofsugar and menthol. Menthol is the principleingredient ofpeppermint. It's obtained from oil ofpep­permint. 
Considering how good our bodies are at curing themselves ofthe worst things that happen to them, all but once, it's interesting that none ofus is ever totally free ofevery single ill or irritation. If we check closely, there's something that isn't quite right. It may be no­thing more than a hangnail, but there it is, stopping our bodies just short ofperfection on any given day. 
I'm not going to eat any more ofthese cough drops. (I think "eat" is a better word than "take.") I'll put them in a dresser drawer. Next time I get a hangnail, I'll see ifsugar and peppermint helps that. 
by Ted Ozark
sm 

~-.----~ 
I I 
f ' I 
Sports=l=l=r=f,=·e::.t!l.=.
-hs==============M=o=n=da=y':::t:~=;ar=c=h2=9=,1=9=82==pa=ge=8 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
The Water Polo Club will practice at the Rockne
Bad weatb.er caused the cancellation of schedulect Barlow shines 
Pool today from 4-6 p.m. Contactjohn at 7816 ifyou have any ques­doubleheaders between the Notre Dame baseball team and Cincin­
tions. -The Observer 
nati on Saturday, and Xavier on Sunday. The games cannot be res­cheduled, according to Head Coach Larry Gallo, but the Irish will try 
inIndiana 
to change single games with Valparaiso (April1 and 29) and Butler (April 4) into doubleheaders in order to try to play more games. 
The Notre Dame Invitational track meet,
Notre Dame's next outing is at Valparaiso Thursday. The next Irish which was scheduled for last Saturday, was cancelled because ofthe 
statetourney
home game is Saturday, April 10, against Purdue. The doubleheader uncommonly cold weather. According to Irish Coach joe Piane, the will be played at jake Kline Field, starting at 1 p.m. -The Observer 
meet was called offso as to avoid the numerous pulled muscles that While Plymouth High School usually occur in cold weather. Piane added that the meet will not be fans rejoiced their team's Indiana rescheduled. -The Observer high school basketball cham­pionship on Saturday, Notre
Mud Volleyballpairings have been posted outside Stu­Dame fans and coaches had to be 
dent union offices. Play begins April 5 and continues until An Tostal's pleased with the performance of Sunny Saturday. -The Observer 
The ND Windsurfing Clubwill hold a very im­Irish recruit Ken Barlow in the portant meeting for all members on Wednesday, March 31, at 9 p.m. tournament. in the Grace Pit. A vote will be taken at this time to determine a Barlow, a 6-10 senior at In­merge with the sailing club. A small party will follow. -The Ob­dianapolis Cathedral High
The ND-SMC women's golfteam will have a 
server School, led his squad into the In­mandatory meeting Tuesday at 3:15 p.m. on the putting green next diana Final Four held Saturday at to the Rockne Memorial Please Bring your putters. Anyone wishing Market Square Arena in In­to try out may attend. Members should bring money for team dianapolis. Barlow tallied 22 
sweaters. Spring practice and match schedules will be discussed. ­Bookstore Basketballwill begin shortly. A meeting points and eight rebounds in his 
The Observer 
ofteam representitives (one per team) will be held tonight at 7 p.m. squad's 62-59 loss to eventual in the Memorial Ubrary Auditorium. Rules will be discussed and the champion Plymouth. schedule distributed. The meeting is mandatory. -The Observer For his efforts, Barlow, who has 
already committed verbally to
Hoosier Hysteriacame to an end with what many are 
play basketball for Digger Phelpscalling the greatest championship game of all time Saturday night. 
Tom Watson subdued Frank Conner with a routine, 2-and Notre Dame next season, was Plymouth High School, paced by sharp-shooting Scott Skiles' 39 putt par on the third playoff hole and scored his second victory of named to the Associated Presspoints and Trester Award winner Phil Wendel's 16 points, edged the season yesterday in the Sea Pines-Heritage Classic. Conner, a All-Tournament team. 
Gary Roosevelt 75-74 for the state high school basketball title in a former tennis pro seeking the first title of his golf career, matched Victorious Plymouth Coachdouble-overtime classic. Both teams made remarkable rallies during Watson's pars on the first two holes ofsudden death, then pulled his jack Edison had nothing butregulation play. Both teams carried the battle into the history· second shot left of the green on the third. Watson put his approach praise for the future Irish center.
making extra periods. Both teams had chances to win. Both teams some 12 feet from the flag, and Conner had a difficult chip, up and "There's no way to stop a greatrefused to fold. At the end, the contest truly could have gone either overa bank. He ran it some 15 feet by the hole, then missed it coming player like Ken Barlow,"· said way. Plymouth finished the season at 28-1. Its only loss was in the back. The victory, the 27th of Watson's career, was worth $54,000 Edison. "Even if we had a playerregular-season finale to South Bend LaSalle, a defeat Plymouth from the total purse of $300,000, and tied him with Henry Picard 6-10 who was good on defense, a avenged in the tourney's semi-state round. -The Observer 
and the legendary Walter Hagen for 12th place on the all-time win­player like Barlow will get his ners list. -AP: points. We just wanted to contain him as much as possible." Indianapolis Cathedral, which was bidding to become the first
The Blue Wave Volleyball Club of Saint An Tostal Ultimate FrisbeeTournament sign­
Catholic high school since FortMary's took second place in a power volleyball tournament upswill be held Wednesday, March 31 from 3-5 pm in LaFortune. Six Wayne Central Catholic in 1955sponsored by the Hillsdale, Mich. Recreation Department Saturday. to twelve male and/or female players per team. One captain needed to win the Indiana state cham­The Blue Wave had a pool-play record of 7-1, losing only in the to sign-up his/her team (must list all team members.) Competition pionship, finished the season 27­championship round to The Kalamazoo Volleyball Club. The USVBA begins before Easter break. $3 entry fee per team. Prizes will go to 
3. -The Observer 
team plays again in two weeks in Muncie, Ind. -The Observer the first and second place teams. -The Observer 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, 
either in person or through the mail. 
Classifieds 
...o.k. here's what it's all about: I've 
DEAR SECOND FLOOR REGINA, OPENING DAYI OPENING DAY! RED created my own An Tostal event called MANY THANKS TO WHOEVER SOX-White Sox BASEBALL! The BOS· 
Stuff Simon. One day during An Tostall WROTE ALL THOSE LOVELY NOTICES TON CLUB will take you to the game, want to run a strip with as many people as TO WAITING FOR NOW. WE AP­TUESDAY, APRIL 6th. Sign up tor possible included ... Thus, I shall fill the PRECIATE THE THOUGHT, BUT IF LIMITED SEATING this MONDAY, March 
~..--_NO_T_IC_ES----lllL-._FO_R_R_EN_T___,.~ll..___F_O_R_SA_LE___,.~ 
frames with caricature, and I'd like to use YOU REALLY WANT OUR ATIENTION, 29th, 7:00pm, 1st floor Lafortune. Come real people so if you would like to ap­
TYPING SERVICE. 684·4125. Student housing-clean, sate. $1 00/mo. USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED., 
291-1405. SAT. SUN. 9-7. CASPERSON 1303 .SEND MONEY. WE ARE LOOKING watch the BOSOX 1n their only ap­Summer Jobs National Park Co's. 21 BUCHANAN RD.. NILES. 
pear in cartoon form, then rapidly mail FORWARD TO EXPERIENCING THE pearance before summer. Cost is being Parks, 5000 Openings. Complete in­Two furnished 5 bedroom houses near 1 )photo, 2)name, and 3)address to: WHOLE FLOOR WHEN/IF WE JAM AT negotiated, probably $12-$15.\ncludes formation $5.00. Park Report. Mission NO. Available next school year and sum­YOU DESERVE THE BEST ...Jatra Stuff Simon SMC. YOU'RE OBVIOUSLY A VERY beer,tix, bus. 
Mtn. Co., 651 2nd Ave. W.N.. Kalispell, mer. 234-2626. Consullant: Penny Penrod 291-8310 M-F 
c.o. Jeb Cashin TASTEFUL GROUP OF YOUNG MT. 59901. 
BoxQ. LADIES-CONGRATULATIONS FOR STOOGE 3-4 bedroom home, furnished, 3 blocks MEN -Show your lady you care with a The Observer . EARNING OUR HEARTFELT HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO THE 
P.S. Thanks to Ed and Ryan tor joining CURIOSITY. AND BEAUTIFUL
TYPING SERVICE. 684·4125. off campus. This summer and/or fall. gift of spring --a bouquet of fresh cut GREATEST MOST Graduate students preferred. Call Mr. flowers delivered each week for 4 weeks. 
1n . . Use campus mail; it's !reel! LOVE AND KISSES. ETC. GIRL I HAVE EVER KNOWN. BELIEVE 
$50,000·$80,000 PER YEAR. Are you Noe, 287-9636, days. WEDNESDAY'S FLOWERS 289-1211. WAITING FOR NOW· IT OR NOT, I REALLY 00 TREASURE bored with your job, tired of working tor EACH MOMENT WITH YOU. THANKS
JAMES P., TIMMY, I LOVE SOUTHERN CAL scono.. ROB LL.,
the other man. National company based FURNISHED 4 BEDROOM HOUSE, 925 FOR BEING YOU. in Lexington, Kentucky looking for five N. FRANCIS. CLOSE TO NO YOUR BAMBINO 
I LOVE SOUTHERN CAL AND BILL Yllllll I LOVE SOUTHERN CAL
distributors in seven·county area. Call 1-AVAILABLE FOR SEPT CALL AFTER 6: 80(}-9594 232-0535 
TICKETS 
I LOVE SOUTHERN CAL I LOVE SOUTHERN CAL Luscious old Karen, Maas Aaaassln ... 
Mon. 3/29/82 Rm. 105 Science Bldg. 4 Bdrm N Shore $270 mo totaL Call Patty I LOVE SOUTHERN CAL Good luck at your new job at the .. .the game lives on ... Slide Presentation by Charles Dineen (319) 322-8735 Call refunded Need extra tickets tor graduation. Call 
hotel ...I'm qu1te certain that you'll be a JEFF 
perfect "entertainer!lll'" A.A., THANKS, YOU MADE OUR DAY 
Tues. 3/30/82 Carroll Hall Fr. James Mark at 3008. 
JPK Whatever your decision, recliningBurtchaell Wed. 3/31/82 Tom Reidand DEBBIE & OORIE
Prof. Rice,ND School of Law Stapleton DESPERTELY NEED 6 TICKETS FOR seats are always bettllt'l Lounge Thurs. 3/1/82 THE 1982 GRADUATION CEREMONY -PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 7695 
THE CIRCUS IS COMING! MIKE GURDAK FOR U.M.O.C ......HE
WANTED THE CIRCUS IS COMING! Lori -here it is , your personal personal. 
REALLY WANTS ITIIII 
Anything else I can do? CALL BRIAN 1073 P.S. Happy Birthday I NEED EXTRA GRADUATION TICKETS Gurdak wants what??? Musumeci on­
If you don't know what you wantto do, and TYPING 28 years as a secretary.-excel· don't know how to find out -come to a
ly wants what he deserves ••• ask his
Please help ""' I need graduation tick·LOST/FOUND lent typist. retired. $1.00/page call Phyllis career planning workshop Wednesday, CK-
friends -II you can find onelllatal Call Drew 8922 Musumeci is UMOC -Inside and
259-2501 .• March 31, 3:30-5:30 at the Placement WARNING! BUD·ROLLES' spawmng
outlllllll ATIENTION BAND 
Bureau, Administration Building. Room capabilities are defic1ent-ask Rebecca MEMBERS· Don't forget the nom1nations
Can you fix electric typewriters? If so, call 222. Sign up by calling 239-5200. REWARD: LOST G\.1.D NECKLACE 284-5127. 
meet1ng Tues. March 30 at 7:00. This is 
no cut for all marching, varsity and con·
WITH CROSS AT CAMPUS VIEW CAREER PLANNING HELPS. Come to HAPPY BIRTHDAY RUDY FERNAN­
PERSONALS 
cert band people. 
POOL. SENTIMENTAL VALUE. Please CAMP COUNSELORS/PROGRAM a career planning workshop on Wed­DEZ. YOU WERE AWESOME ON TV. 
call 283-6954 OIRECTORS wanted for private Michigan nesday, March 31, 3:30-5:30. Ad­I'M GLAD YOU DIDN'T SPLIT YOUR boys/girls summer camps: swimmmg, minlatratlon Bldg., Room 222. Sign up PANTS IN PUBLIC.
JAMES WRIGHT ...Welcome to won­
derful Brown University. May your Notre Dame circlr on March 12 in the af­archery, tennis, golf, crafts, camping, IS 
Lost one pair of orange Lange ski boots at canoeing, sailing, skiing, sports, riflery, OENISE SMITH by calling 239-5200. YOU·KNOW-WHO
ninths always be diminished and your 
tetrameters, trochaic. Congratul•
ternoon. If found please contact Phil at gymnastics, calligraphy, dramatics, TWENTY·ONE BICYCLE PICK UP-Gate14 Stadium, 
lions ...GERARDO VELEZ. 1765 Maple, Northfield, IL 60093. Send from 1 to 4 p.m. Bring TAG to claim THIS BIRTHDAY PERSONAL IS LOST: A RED PULL-OVER WHILE JOG­details. LYONS HALL FOODSALES OFFERS CAN YOU MANAGE bike. Don't forget your BIKES! GOOD FOR ONE RELAXING OIL GING AROUND ST. JOE'S LAKE THE THE BEST IN FRESH, THICK CRUST BACK RUB BY A PAIR OF EXTREMELY 
3779. Thanks. cheerleading, guitar. Laurence Seeger. lues, Wad, Thurs, 30, 31, 1. Each day RUDY FERNANDEZ, 
TOSTAREAT STANAGE
MORNING OF MARCH 23. IT WAS I NEED RIDERS TO SOUTHERN CAL. PIZZA DELIVERED ANYWHERE ON Co "no plans· H. tor SWOC! p.s. S stands TALENTED HANDS and ONE BACK HUNG ON A TREE BRANCH. PLEASE FOR SUMMER. ECONOMICALIII CALL SOUTH QUAD FOR THE NOMINAL for sleazy! NEEDING RELAXING AT THE
STANAGE CALL RON AT 6261 (200 GRACE). TOM 234-0515. 
STANAGE
CHARGE OF 25 CENTS SUNDAY PLEASURE OF YOUR EQUALLY THANK-YOU. THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHTS FROM HAPPY BIRTHDAY OLD RUDY FER· QUALIFIED FINGERS. 
STANAGE Summer Res1dent Camp Staff needed. NANDEZ AND OLD PAM GORSKI. 
RICH STANAGE FOR UMOC 
9:30 TO 11 AND ORDER YOURS. LOVE CHERYL LOST-OVER 200 MEMBERS OF THE Mld·June to early August. All positions A YOUNGER FRIEND 
ALSO: EVERY WEDNESDAY NIGHT IS 
~  KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS. IF FOUND, PLEASE RETURN TO THE K of C MEETING TONIGHT AT 7. THANKS.  open: Counselors, Waterfront, Cooks and nurse. Contact Girl Scouts of Singing Sands, 15985 S.R. 23, Granger, Indiana 46530 219-277-0900.  GUEST CELEBRITY NIGHT WITH WELL· KNOWN CAMPU5-FIGURES WORKING THE COUNTER I  Hello, Pete Manzo! Once more, I'd hke to say thank-you for making my day at din­ner last Thursday night. I'm glad that 1met  Hollywood Gala Apnl2, 1982 The "show· must go on  !'!IGN·UPS for Sophomore Literary Fes· t1val be1ng taken at Student Union Office,  
Lost -Notre Dame Monogram jacket Thursday. March 25 at Senior Bar. I have your jacket. It is missing two buttons. Call Dave at 8307.  R1de needed to Richmond, VA or Lex11­ngton, KY for Easter Break. Call Lisa at 8160  Dear LUCY: I LOVE YOU!  VICTOR  you.  Chnst1na  ONLY THREE CIRCUS DAY!  MORE  DAYS  'TIL  2nd floor LaFortune Cha~rman of Ex­ecutive Comm1ttee, All pos1t1ons open S1gnups March 30 -Apnl 2  
Found ­Monogram jacket at senior bar Thursday, March 25. You switched it with mine. Call Dave at 8307.  Need r :le to NW. suburb of Ch1cago (Algonquin) or O'Hare for Easter Call Tracy8041.  Colleen Quinn is a fair maiden. F~rst Meet1ng N.D. Women's Caucus March 31, 8:30, Little Theatre, LaFortune.  Lauren, Happy 19th II You finally reached your goal! Have a great day.· Lisa.  Happy Birthday Pam .Gorski(you lucky girl) !Wbowrotetbls?You'Uneverknow. XXXXXXXXOOOOOOOXXXXXXXOOOOO  Happy Birthday Rudy Fernandez!!! XXXXXXOOOOOOOOOOO?  

The Observer -Sports Monday, March 29, 1982 -page 9 
Digger has coaches talking. • • 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Sports Writer 
Digger Phelps pulled off what may 
have been the media coup of his 
career this past weekend in New Or­
leans, stealing headlines away from 
the Final Four all over the country 
with his charges about cheating in 
college basketball. Because the 
NCAA finals arc also the site of the 
annual coaches convention, many 
other head coaches from around the 
country were available to comment 
on Phelps's charges. 
Sentiment seemed to be in sup­
port of Phelps, thouKh there were 
several dissenters. 
"Digger is right," said Hank 
Raymonds of Marquette. "We've 
created our own monster, and we 
have to deal with it." 
Kansas State's Jack Hartman also agreed that the responsibility lies with the coaches. "We have to do this ourselves," he said. "I know Digger has evidence or he wouldn't have said anything." 
Alabama's Wimp Sanderson was not as sure. "I'm certain something is going on -but to what extent I don't know. So much stuff is hearsay. I don't know how much Digger has, but Ido know you can get yourself in trouble if you don't have your facts exactly right." 
Another Big 8 coach, Eddie Sutton of Arkansas, said Phelps should proceed with caution. "You have to make sure your information is right before you .report another school. You can't make a mistake. It can be a very tough decision -you may have to tum in a friend -but it has 
...with recruiting charges from last fill 
Editor's Note: The following is a reprint ofan article that appeared in The Observerand was carried by the Associated Press national wire on October 12,1981. Wefind itpar­ticularly timely in light of last weekend's events in New Orleans. 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) -Notre 
Dame basketball coach Digger 
Phelps says more than a decade of 
recruiting high school athletes has 
opened his eyes to a stark reality. He 
says there's a whole lot of cheating 
going on in college basketball. 
"We are in a real minority here at Notre Dame," says Phelps. "There are some serious problems with in­tercollegiate athletics, and things are not going to change unless coaches make a concentrated effort to change them" 
The problem stems from the belief among <."ollege coaches and administrators that winning teams help solve t1nancial problems for a university. In fact, Phelps says, the profits from sports, if there are any, are mini11cule compared with the costs of running a school. 
The recruitment of high school athletes is where most of the abuses occur, Phelps told the Notre Dame student newspaper, The Observer. 
"Rumor has it that we lost three players last year for a total of $120,000," he said. "Each of them supposedly was paid 540,000 in cash to attend the schools at which they eventually enrolled." 
Phelps, who says he's been told he lost a player to a 140,000 payoff the year before as well, believes that such transactions are strictly cash deals. There's no way to trace cash, and thus the rumors cannot be proven. 
"Sometimes the kids themselves 
are bought off," he said. "Sometimes 
parents or other relatives are in­
volved, and often the high school 
coach is part ofthe deal." 
The other major problem with reruiting is in the area of academics. While Notre Dame requires that an incoming student have a 2.0 grade point average, 16 college prep credits and three years of math, other schools have no such rules. The only NCAA requirement is that a student have a 2.0 grade point average upon graduation from high school. 
"Even that rule is abused," Phleps said. "Many times players have lower grades when they sign a na­tional letter of intent to play for a school, and only get their grade point average up to 2.0 on the strength of their last semester." 
Phelps, who ha~ already received word from two high school stars that they plan to attend Notre Dame next year, has some suggestions: 
"I believe in the requirements Notre Dame has set forth," he said. "And I think the NCAA should adopt more stringent entrance require­ments. Every student athlete should be required to have 12 college preparatory credits, with courses in math, science, English and history, and they should have a grade point average of 2.0 in those courses. 
"Ifa student can't get a 'C' average in high school, he shouldn't be asked to face the academic challenge of college, as well as the pressures of playing basketball. 
"Coaches are saying to high school players, 'Don't worry about going to class or graduating. If you play for me, you'll get a million­dollar pro contract, and you won't need a diploma.' 
How can an honest coach, who tells a player that he'll have to work hard to stay in school, compete with that?" 
to be done." 
Gene Bartow of Alabama­Birmingham agreed with Sutton 1il terms of the decision to tum a school in being a difficult one, but he was sure ofhis own feelings. 
"If I could prove somebody was 
"Ifs time to J<O after 
peoh/e who are cheat­
zng~' 
..:heating I'd report them in a 
second," he said. "I agree with 
Digger. I think he's doing the right 
thing. There's more and more 
money going out to players each 
year. I hope Digger can prove what 
he's saying. I for one am all for hi t m. 
It's time to go after people who are 
cheating." ~---1-roblems can arise from turning 
other schools in to the NCAA, 
however. Mississippi's Bob Weltlich 
found that out. 
"If I get evidence, I'm going to 
point a finger -I'm going to tum 
somebody in," he said. "The trouble 
is, I did that two years ago. The press 
found out about it and the headline 
read, • Mississippi blows the whistle 
on so-and-so.' We sounded like the 
heavy. The press has some respon­
sibility too." 
Most coa,:hes echo the senti­
ments of Indiana'a Bobby Knight, 
however. "It's a hell of a problem," 
he said. "We, as coaches, had better 
focus some attention on it, or the 
game is going to be hurt badly." 
But not evt:ryone in New Orleans 
lined up in support ofPhelps. 
George Raveling of Washington 
State flat out denied the charges. "I 
travel the same circles that Digger 
does, and I haven't heard of anyone 
See COACHES, page 10 

Digger Phelps chose New Orleans 
and the national coaches conven­
tion to point an accusatory finger 
at collell,e coaches who cheat (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
TUeS'DAY 9S HfO.CSOK K9Te AT CORBY'S ~DK ~cued 'f>aoli& 

'Dwlb 75' 

-dUII.UIHIIIIIIIIUUUIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIII...IIIIIIIII.........~hii....IIII.......UII.........._. 
Co8imo·s ffioilt CDe8ign 
18461 St. Rd. 23 South Bend, call for appointment 277-1875 
-sham~oo, condition~~' cut style Guys-$7.l>O (reg. 13.00) Girls $10.00. (reg.18.00) For Co-Designers Only. 
........................................................"..................................................... 

1982-1983 NOTRE DAME SCIENCE QUARTERLY 
Is no:w accepting applications for both ··paid and unpaid positions. (We are especially looking for interested freshmen and sophomores, but anyone is welcome to appl}7.) 
Address Applications To: Notre Dame Science Quarterly College of Science Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
Deadline: April 1, 1982 For more information call: Andrew Petros 239-5757 or Doris Costello 283-8001 
BAGGAGE TRUCKS 

Applications for May and August are now available in the 
Student Activities Office. NO fee required. 
As a service to students, the application procedure is mandatory. This procedure will eliminate any duplication ofserviCe (and inevitable financial loss for you). Also, having 
all trucks registered enables our office to assist students looking for ways to ship their baggage and enables you to obtain more customers and access to campus parking for pick-ups and drop-offs. 
Deadline for applying is Monday, AprilS. Notification in most cases will be April6. 

The Observer Monday, March 29, 1982-page 10 
... Heels 
continuedfrom page 12 
"He didn't have a good shooting game against Louisville Saturday," Smith said _ 
Floyd, who leads the team in scoring with an average 16.7 points 
... 
...Fencing 
continuedfrom page 12 
team score was deadlocked at eight at the conclusion of the match, the Irish had been out-touched 59-54 and lost. 
"I can't say enough about the per­formance of our women's team," added DeCicco. "It required a tremendous effort to qualify for the NCAA finals in the first place, and they certainly fenced well once they 
posted a .2-5 record in the eight­team NCAA team finals. The Irish wins came against Stevens Institute ~ of Technology ( 10-6) and Clemson (9-7). One of their five losses was a heartbreaking setback to fifth-place Cal State-Northridge. Although the 
a game, hit just three of 11 shots from the field in Saturday's 50-46 semifinal victory over 20th-ranked Louisville. 
But Floyd said the Hoyas don't rise or fall on his shooting. "I don't need to score for us to win," he said. "We 
got there." 
Wayne State, whose men's team clinched the NCAA championship two weeks ago, also won the women's team title with a 7-0 record. Event host SanJose State wa'> second at 6-1. 
continuedfrom page9 
getting S1 0,000. I've heard rumors ofcheating, but just rumors. I think if he's as well-intentioned as he seems to be it's time he started naming names." 

LOVERBOY 
With Special Guest 
~ 
FRIDAY, APRIL 16 
8 pm ACC -Notre Dame Univ. South Bend, Indiana Tickets $9 and 10. Reserved Seats. 
T1ckels avarlable at A C C Box offrce. Robertson's 
•n South Bend and Concord Matt. Etkhan Truth. Forst Source Bank (ma•n ofl•ce) St Joseph Bank (ma.n office). and Suspended Chord .n Elkhart 
Produced by Contemporary with Sunshine 
have others who can sco_re for.us." 
Not that Smith isn't thinking about 
Ewing and the rest ofthe Hoyas. 
"They're a very well-rounded team," Smith said. "I don't think we'll take the ball into Ewing and try to foul him out. They've got too many other good players. Ofcourse, I wouldn't mind it if Ewing got four fouls on him in the first minute." 
For the Tar Heels, it's the second straight year they've reached the final game. Last sea'ion they lost to Indiana in Philadelphia This is the first time Georgetown has played for the National Championship. 
The game is scheduled to begin at 
8:12 p.m. EST, and will be televised by CBS. 
... Coaches 
That was the same opinion of­ferred by Georgetown's John Thompson, who said: "If Digger's going to say 50 percent (of the schools are cheating) he'd better start naming names. Otherwise, a dark shadow is cast upon the entire profession." 
Terry Holland of Virginia was wary. "There has been a lot of frus­tartion for Digger of late. I hate for him to give the impression that this is going on all over the country." 
The head coach at George Wash­ington, Gerry Gimelstob, came out and said that at which Holland had merely alluded. "There are always stories, but they're usually started by guys with losing records. Digger is 7-19 (sic) this year-so all ofa sud­den he found out there are ir­regularities in recruiting." 

Weather blamedforslow
' . 
. ----­
women s tennzsstart 
ByJANE HEALEY 
Sports Writer 
It was a long day of tennis Satur­day in Macomb, Illinois, and for the members of the Notre Dame women's tennis team the day must have seemed more like an eternity. 
It all started at 9 a.m. with the first serve against the University of II-
Applications for ASSISTANT TREASURER STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
available in Treasurer's Office 2ild floor LaFortune 
Must presently be a Sophomore Accounting major 
ApplicationsDue Friday,April2 4:00PM 
100 years ago this week,Father Michael 
McGivney founded the Knights of Columbus As a part ofour centennial celebration,_ the Knights and Ladies of Council 1477 .wish to express our gratitude to all ofthe priests, brothers, and sisters of the ND-SMC community for their devotion and dedicated service 
100 
F=====YEARS 
Titloi~It was au finally over almost ten hours later with the last volley against Western Illinois University. 
The scoreboard told the sad story. Notre Dame lost to Illinois 7-2 and again to Western Illinois 6-3. The team's record this spring is now 0-8. 
The day sounds pretty bleak, and it was, but there were twO· bright spots. Sophomore standout Pam Fis­chette won both of her singles matches at third singles. Also, fresh­man Laura Lee, at fifth singles, was 2-0 on the day. Yet, concurrently, both girls lost their two doubles matches. That's the kind ofday it was all day. 
"We played better than we did on our spring trip, but we weren't men­tally tough, and that was the dif­ference," comments coach Sharon Petro. 
In order to improve skills and ac­
quire mc::ntal toughness, a team 
needs to practice. llnJortunately, 
due t<> the cold weather and the 
"Hopefully we'll get 
more time topractice.'' 
many activities going on in the ACC 
this past week, the tennis team was 
really only able to practice twice 
before tht:ir matches. According to 
Petro, that lack of practice time had 
a very negative influence on her 
team. 
Petro expresses her hopes for the 
coming week by saying,"Hopefully 
we will be able to get more time to 
practice, to actually be on a court ­
an outdoor court -before our next 
set of matches or the results will be 
just as bad." 
Fortunately for them, the women 
will have plenty of time to work out 
and to contemplate their past losses 
and future wins. They don't see ac­
tion again until the weekend ofApril 
16-17. Hopefully, if Petro is right, 
the extra time will do the team some 
good. 
!fHEOARHOUSE 
i 
! • Beer 
~ Open till
•liquor
i 
i 3:00am!!!
• Carryout
. 
I """"SINGLES BAR ! -BOOZES DANCING 
I· 272-7818 
u.s. 31 North
I
l_-~:.(l~bl:.:;.oc;:;.;k:..:s:.:;.o::.:ut::.:h..=o~..;fH:.::o=lid=·=:a!lz.:l::.:n!!ln)l...--l 
-~------­
Ihe~r.======================================== 
~~4()l~~-~=============================M=o=n=d=ay='=M=M=c=h=2=9=,=19=8=2===p=a=ge==ll

• 
..,. 

u•rJCn.allpractice opened Saturday. There werefew cameras, and fewer fans, but players say the drills were the best in years. Coach Gerry Faust and his staffsay there will be some changes as a result oflast year's 5-6performance. (Photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
Hoyas, Heels face offin NCAA finals 
Ewing under guard 
afterdeath threat 
NEW ORLEANS (AP)-George­town's)ohn Thompson, who lik::s to stress the good things about his team, says a little badmouthing from others doesn't hurt. 
"I have a way of turning the negative into positive," Thompson said yesterday, the day before the sixth-ranked Hoyas, 30-6, meet No.1 North Carolina, 31·2, for the NCAA championship. 
"I like people to say negative things about us and say we can't do things because we want to go out and prove we can do it," Thompson said. 
The Hoyas have had their share of adversity this year, and Thompson certainly has made the most ofit. 
In January, the Hoyas lost con­secutive games to Syracuse, Connec­ticut and Providence. 
Instead of dwelling on the team's slump, Thompson gathered the players and had each one say some­thing positive. 
"Someone said the team was ver­satile and that we had deermination and weren't quitters," revealed senior Ed Spriggs, at age 2S the Hoyas' stabilizing influence. 
The Hoyas have since won 17 of 18 games to reach the Final Four for the first time in 39 years. 
"The people who have been the body and soul of this team are those who have come to work hard," Thompson said. "I think it's a tribute to them for their hard work." 
Thompson said Georgetown's in­timidating center, 7-foot Pat Ewing, received a telephoned death threat after the Big East tournament in ear­ly March. 
He said that partially was respon­sible for keeping a security guard at Ewing's side and keeping the team in Biloxi, Miss., about 60 miles east of· the tournament site. 
"I'm doing what I think is best for the players I have," he said. "When you have the responsibility of others, you do those things you believe are necessary." 
Georgetown's biggest problem in the championship game will be trying to contain North Carolina for­ward )ames Worthy and center Sam Perkins. 
Worthy and Perkins, both 6-9, combined for 39 points in the Tar Heels' 68-63 victory over Houston in Saturday's semi-final. 
"I don't think we'll do too much different on defense," Spriggs said. "Oregon State had three big men and we didn't do much different. I think we'll do what we've done well all season and hope that gets us by them." 

Monday, March 29, 1982-page 12 
·Promises changes 
Faust opens spring practice 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
Gerry Faust promised things would be different this time around. Saturday, he proved to be a man of his word. 
The Irish held the first of their 20 
allotted spring workouts, and the at­
mosphere surrounding the 1982 
debut bore little resemblance to the 
one on last year's opening day, when 
hundreds ofspectators turned out In 
70-degree sunshine to watch the 
new Notre Dame coach perform. 
There was no warm weather, no crowd, and were virtually no dis­tractions to speak of Saturday. No autographs to sign, no cameras to look at. It was strictly business, right from the start. 
"Practice was definitely more in­tense than it was last year at this time," offered tri-captain Mark Zavagnin. "I think all the players and coaches are approaching spring with a much more serious attitude." 
"Our attitudes were very high going out there," confirmed another captain Dave Duerson. "This was probably the best first day of spring drills that we've had in the three years I've been here." 
"I thought it went great," agreed Phil Carter, the third captain for '82. "The players seemed genuinely excited to be out there again. We've got to work hard ifwe hope to forget about last year." 
If Saturday was any indication, 
Smith makes a seventh bidfor title 
NEW ORLEANS (AP) -Dean 
Smith wants to win this one for the 
seniors, and the seniors want to win 
this one for Dean Smith. 
"Every time we read an article 
about Dean Smith it talks about what 
a great coach he is and how he 
chokes when he gets to the Final 
Four," says North Carolina guard 
Jimmy Black. "We're tired ofreading 
about that, and he probably would 
tell you he's tired ofit, too." 
The Tar Heel senior exuded a 
quiet confidence and determination ·yesterday as did many of the other North Carolina players, on the eve of tonight's NCAA basketball cham­

they'll be more hitting -both of­fense and defense had plenty ofcon­tact -and less talking this season. 
"Yelling and screaming is not going to get us anywhere," Zavagnin explained. "Last year, we tried to show our intensity to other people too much, as if that was going to prove how good we were. But players aren't going to go out and make all that noise this time. We're going to let our actions do the talking." 
The senior linebacker agreed Car­tier Field had the atmosphere of a classroom Saturday. Team members seemed more intent. 
"Coach Faust gave us a lot to think about," he continued. "He said he wanted us to play for ourselves, for our teammates, not for otherpeople. I think we were too concerned about performing for outsiders before. Now, I think the players just want to earn respect from one an­other above all." 
Maybe the most obvious dif­ference on the field was Faust's periodic abscences from it. Though he prescribes to the "pat on the back" method ofcoaching, Faust put some distance between himself and the team by going up in the tower to get a better view ofthings. 
"He wants to be more involved with the defense this year," ex­plained Zavagnin. The tower didn't remove Faust from the action in the least. "I heard him shouting things to the defensive units on several occa­
pionship game against Georgetown. 
Their determination stems from 
Smith's failure to win a national title 
in six previous trips to the Final 
Four. Only UCLA's John Wooden 
made it this far more times -12 ­
and he took home lO titles. 
"I want to win this one badly for 
my teammates," Black ack­
nowledged, "but I want it more for 
Coach Smith. Last year, our goal was 
to get to the Final Four, and we did 
that. This year, our goal is to win the 
national championship. I think we 
can do that, too." 
North Carolina forward James 
Worthy also talked about getting the 
monkey off Smith's back. 
"We're getting tired of all those questions about Smith never win­ning the national championship," said the 6-foot-9 forward. "We in­tend to do something about it." 
Smith, talking at a pre-game press conference, downplayed his own lack ofsuccess at winning the NCAA title. If his team loses tonight, he said, "life will go on and players will graduate." 
But, he added, "it's sad for me to 
see the seniors graduate. I want the 
seniors to win it for themselves." 
As for himself, Smith said winning 
the NCAA championship "would be 
fun. And, besides, you fellows 
(reporters) wouldn't ask me ques­
tions about it any more." 
ln Georgetown, the Tar Heels 
realize they will be facing different 
problems than against Houston, a 
team they beat 68-63 in the national 
semifinals Saturday. 
"The Houston guards control their offense, while Georgetown tries to get the ball inside to their big men," Black said. -Smith says the Tar Heels will be 
wary of the mountainous Pat Ewing, Georgetown's 7-foot freshman, but he is especially concerned about Eric "Sleepy" Floyd, the Hoyas' shooting All-American guard. 
See HEELS, page 10 
sions. And being in the tower didn't lessen his impact -he can get his point across from anywhere on the field." 
About the only negative feedback concerned something beyond Faust's control. "It was too cold out there," moaned Carter. "I thought it was supposed to be spring." 
IRISH ITEMS -Senior defensive back Rod Bone underwent arthro­scopic surgery on his knee last month. He'll be out of action anoth­er couple of weeks ... The Irish go back at it today at 4:00 ... Practices are open to all students with an ID. 
Valdiserri finishes tenth in fencing 
By BILL MARQUARD 
Sports Writer 
As four of her teammates looked 
on, Irish junior Susan Valdiserri 
surged to a 1Oth place finish in the 
NCAA Fencing Championships, 
which were held Saturday at San 
Jose State. 
Valdiserri's support came from 
Marcella Lansford, Sharon DiNicola, 
Mary Shilts and Anne Burns, who 
along with Valdiserri carried the 
Irish to a sixth-place finish In the 
NCAA team competition, which was 
held at San Jose on Thursday ancl 
Friday. 
"I am very proud of the way our women performed as a team, and I am particularly happy for Susan," commented Irish coach Mike DeCicco. "A lot of people were dis­appointed with the seventh-place finish our men's team had in the NCAA Championships over break, but no one can be disappointed with this performance. 
"They really outdid themselves." 
Valdiserri, who was also awarded honorable mention All-America ac­colades, earned a place among the 24-women NCAA individual cham­pionship field as an at-large selection from the Great Lakes Fencing Cham­pionships three weeks ago. 
The Irish captain responded by advancing out of pool competition into the final round against 16 other 
fencers. After losing b to SanJose's Sue Huseman, the South Bend, Ind., native defeated Sue Wasserman of Ohio State 8-7. In her last bout, Valdiserri fell to San jose's Cathy Kay, who eventually finished eighth in the competition. 
"Susan really deserved this honor," DeCicco said. "She has worked hard for the team for three years now, and this is a fitting cul­mination to the season. 
Valdiserri ·and her teammates 
See FENCING, page 10 
INSIDE: 
Barlow p.B Briefs p.B Digger p.9 Coaches p.9 
Tennis p.lO 

