
--~-~--~ 
• • .Personals -page 12 
---·---· ----· ·-----------------­
~ ·----~-·­

•
1scusses work, life of Keats 
Ftlitor's .\'o/1': .Itark Slet•enson. till expert IJII the /ij(• anti u·ritings of .fobn Keats. 1£tlketl ll'ilb (>h~crver Staj/ Reporter cintll' Coltlimn "'' 
I hi' fiji• oflbt•f)(Jt'/. 
'J: lf'ben illltl bou• did you first 
ht'UJ/1/t' interested in /be life of!be 
fiot•f_/uhn /\eats? 
.. Altt·r I graduatnl in I <J-5 with an 1-:nglbh major from Amht-r~t Col­lt-ge, I visitnl John Kells' home in 1-:nglanJ with some frit-nds. Whilt-I wa~ tlwre, I ran across a sign that said that John Keats din! at agt· 2';. I \\ antnl to know more about him so 

Stevenson 
a frit-nd told me his biography. You untld say that I fell in love with a 
could hdp pcplt-through his writing. II is \\Titing c.: ame out of thb strugglt· 10 bcc.:omc.: ht·ttt-r. 
I think a lot ofhis inspiration came: through his imagination and fasdna­t ion \\ nh the Cla~:-.i..:al Gr..:d. l'l'!'iod. In fat·t. 1\.cat~ was pmhahly rdn­carnatnl from this pt·nod. lit· took images from around him and incor­poratnlthcm into hb poetry. 
Q: Hat•e you euer bat/ any un­usual or interesting experiences related to your sltu/J' of1\J_•ats? 

Yes. I had a strange experience one: timt·. I was working with a friend on a script and was de:pressed over it because it was not working out the way I wantt·d it to. I prayed for support from (iod. Next. we tape-rec.:orded the s<:ript that we had been working on. When we played hack the recording, we heard the sound of a heartbeat in the hack­ground. I felt it belonged to Keats who was standing over our shoulder 
See KEATS, page 8 

Sonia Sanchez, one of America's leading literary• figures reads delivers a dramatic rendi­tion ofexcerpts ofherpoetry• last night. Sancbez's appearance marked tb,, third featured event of the Black Cultural Arts Pesti1•al. (Photo by Cberyl Ertelt) 
dt·ad man. meaning with his ieucrs and works. All ofJohn Keats friends lovt·d him so much. and he had such 



Reaganlackssupportfor 1983budget plan 
a ~ad. t·arly death. l pc.:rformnl some of his works for WASHINGTON (AP) Senate :\1ajority Leader Howard it down very frankly ... is to reduce
tht· 11rst time on July '1, I <J76 in Dal­in a few days, and when they get Republican leaders told President Baker Jr., Sen. Paul Laxalt. and House the size of the ddkits."
las for a ft-w fric.:nds. I playc.:d it at homt· they're going to tlnd out how Reagan yesterday of lagging eon­Republican Leader Robert .\1ichel Laxalt, Rt·agan's formt·r campaign
Kt·ats house: in llamstc.:aJ, England much the people want what we have 
gressional support for his rec.:ord confronted Reagan with the assess­c.:hairman and his closest congres­
that spring. This spring, the end of proposed." deficit budget, and even his elosest ment that the S7';7-hillion plan ti>r sional ally. said "We want ... the run­
April, I will ht· at tht· Players Club in Last year, Congress gave Rt·agan Nt·w York. Senate friend asked li>r the "running t1scal I ')H.3 simply won't tly as long ning room on Capit11l Hill to virtually everything he wanted in 
Q: Wbat el'ent do you think room ... to come up with some bet­as it projects ddkits approaching examine the hudgt·t, give it an inde­the way of tax and spt·nding cuts. ter results." S I 00 billion in that and future years. pendent look and perhaps come up Earlier this week. the presitlent
cbanged or inj1uenced .John Keats 
.\1ichel, of Illinois, told reporters with some hl·tter results." said his new proposals amounted to
life the greatest? Reagan replied that while "I've The fact that his fathc.:r died whc.:n sent a budget up that I believe in 
later that many conservatives fed ":'olo budget is sacrosanct," said a "lint· in the dirt," and said hb "pole-axed" by that proposed tlood Baker of Tennessee. He aJdt·d that critics should"put up or shut up."
Kc.:ats was dght years old, his mother very much," Congress should have of red ink.
died wht·n he was 14, and his the chant'l' to find further cuts. But the president himself believes Reagan's budget anuopates hrother died when he was 2.3. This he ruled out compromising on his And Laxalt, of :'\Jevada. declared at: "there's got to he give and take and delkits of S'JH.6 hillioil this ~'l'ar. madt· an cft'cct on his looking at the I H percent boost for the Pentagon. ter the session with Reagan and Vice there's got to he compromise." S<J I.'; hill ion in I <JH.~ and SH2 billion President George Bush that "the But a Reagan spokesman, David in I ')H·I. Repuhlit:ans and
world. I k dcddnl at first that he And he also rejec.:ted any attempt to name of the game is getting that in­
wanted to he a surgeon to help increase revenues hy trimming his Gergen, said it was too early to talk lkmocrats alike say the ;u:tual terest rate down, and the way to get
pt·oplt-. Tht·n ht· found out that he: tax nns. about compromising on details of ligures will he even hight·r. the prugram. "Thcrt· is no plan ht-rc But .\1ichcl also said Reagan's 
to compromist·. \\'t·'re not sending critil'S face a ditlicult year as thy those kind of signals. That was not struggle to decide wht·ther to raise the spirit ofthe meeting here today." taxes or cut spending to reduce the Later, Reagan himself used deficit. 
lvfiij(YFmilitarj-campaign·--------------------

Artny controls El Salvador 
Laxalt's phrase when he agreed "We're going to put tht·m to the Congress "should have the running
SA:'IJ SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP) refused to comment on the Usulutan test," ht· said. 
crease military aid to the junta. 
-El Salvador's defense minister operation, but said "the army con­ruom to he able to talk" about pott·n­Baker declined to he spt·citk
In Washington. sources who 
tial cuts in the budget so long as they
daimt·d yesterday that his li>rces stantly undertakes actions" to find about possible changes in Reagan's
asked not to be identified said the 
have the upper hand against leftist and destroy enemy strongholds. don't apply to defense. Asked if ht· budget.
administration will ask Congress ti>r guerrillas, and a military source: said El Salvador's Human Rights Com­
were disturbed hy tht· congrt·ssional Democrats, mt'anwhik. con­
S';2 million in military aid !i>r I')H.:\,tht· army has laund1ed a major cam­mtsston estimates that .32,000 re-
criticism. the president said: ":'IJo.
twice the amount originally paign against the rebels in the south­civilians have been killed in the 27· hecuase I know they'rt· going home See BUDGET, page 4
4uested. t·a.~tern part of the country. month civil war between govern­
---~----·------~-·-·-­
In a telephone interview with The ment troops and leftist guerrillas. Associated Press, Defense :\1inister TlenetiCilisorder contznties
The guerrillas have been either (it·n. Jose Guillermo Garda, denied unwilling or unable to occupy news rc.:ports that the guerrillas con· towns or villages for long periods. 

Diseaseplagues descendants 
trot territory or are able to move Instead, they have engaged in hit­frn:ly in large parts of the country. and-run raids against selected tar­By ROBERT LOCKE 
aorta, the main blood vessel from The hoy was a classic example of 
"The armed forces control all the gets. Associated Press 
the heart, cause its valve to malfunc­the genetic abnormality and "the national territory," he said, claming Last week, the guerrillas started tion and, ultimately, result in family's name was Lincoln. I knew tht· guerrilla reports wt·re part of a switching their attac.:ks from the progressive hc.:art failure. immediately that Abraham Lincoln propaganda campaign to undermine t·ountryside to urban centers. They 
LOS ANGELES (AP) · Abraham Based on Lincoln's words and had the same thing."
tht· credibility of the U.S.-supported burned more than ';'; buses in San Lincoln's familiar image the those written about him, Schwartz Since then, Schwartz said in an in­
junta abroad. Salvador and in two other cities. commanding height, lanky frame, 

terview, he has traced the Lincoln On Wednesday, counter-Western diplomats, who asked great hands and gaunt face of so 
family tree, confirming his younginsurgt·ncy troops launched a sweep anony111ity li>r policy reasons, said many faded photographs -was patient's kinship with the I6th presi­through large parts of Usulutan the army is in a worse position now caused by a hereditary disease that 
dent, and studied newspapers,province, HI miles southeast of the than a year ago when guerrillas trails his descendants to this day. 
books, pictures and letters n>ncern· 
capital, where the guerrillas main­launched a nationwide offensive says a physician at the University ot -~FOCUS ing Lincoln. Lakewood home is a tain a number ofsec.:ret strongholds, that failed for lack of popular sup­Southern Californi::.. 
small museum of Lincoln a military source said. port. Dr. Harold Schwartz said the conduded: "He was already in heart memorabilia. The source. who asked anonymity A recent guerrilla attack on the lifelong fects of :\1arfan syndrome failure at the time he was assas­
"I found a whole world of con­
for sec.:urity reasons, identified the llopango military base ncar the capi­were reaching a dimax in the ';6­sinated. He <:ould not have lived firmation ... It's not hypothctieal at soldiers as mt·mhers of the army's tal destroyed I '; warplanes and year-old president in I H6'; and more than 6 to I 2 months." 
all," he said. "I have merely put to­crat·k Atlacatl and Atonatl hatalions. helicopters, more than half the would probably have killed him Schwartz, of the USC medical gr:ther the facts that have bt·en given
Resil.knts of Usulutan City, the junta's air li>rce. within a year had not an assassin school, has bt:cn studying Lmcoln --~ by the president and his contem­provincial capital, said they saw I H The Reagan administration. which struck !lest. and :\tartan syndrome for three 
pt>raries and the facts in the medical trut·ks loaded with troops pass is committed to preventing a .\1arx­The genetic disorder, which decades, ever since he examined a 
literature." thruugh during the: night. apparently ist victory in El Salvador. sent six Schwartz says produces "a dis­7-year-old hoy whose mother was 
Schwartz said he followed the Lin-heading for the town ofJuacaran. hd t icopters to replace the damaged proportionate elongation of the concerned that "he was so dis­A Defense .\1inistry spokesman planes, and announced plans to in-skeletal svstem," can also cham>t· rhe proportionately tall." See LINCOLN, page 4 
-~-----·--------------~----­

NewsBrie/J 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
A leaking sewer pipe in the basement ofSorin (:ol­lege covered a room with gallons offoul-smelling water. At I: 15 a.m. yesterday morning, the occupants ofRoom 008 were disturbed from studying by the sound of dripping water, which emanated from an exposed sewage pipe running along the ceiling of the room. After moving their possessions into the hallway, the students telephoned the maintenance departent. Director ofMaintenancejohn Moorman drove directly from his home to Sorin to inspect the leak within minutes ofreceiving the call. By the time Moorman arrived, the pipe had stopped leaking, and he was unable to discover the cause of the leak. Rector David Porterfield informed the two students that he would work for full monetary reimbursements for the damaged clothes, rug and appliances. -The Observer. 
Fire swept through a block of the. small Missouri town of Chillicothe, destroying three buildings and damaging two others, authorities said. No injuries were reported in the Wednesday night blaze, but nearly 40 residents of a downtown hotel were evacuated by authorities who went door-to-door. The cause of the fire was not immediately determined and no damage estimate was available. Authorities said the fire broke out about 10:51 p.m. in a restaurant, which was closed. Firefighters battled the blaze as· tem­peratures dipped to I 0 above zero. Chillicothe; a town of I0,000 people 90 miles northeast of Kansas City, was hit by six fires in a five-block downtown area in September 1979. Five of the fires were ruled arson. -AP 
Rensselaer County New York must pay a 
dairy farmer S3,500 for the mental anguish suffered by his herd after wild dogs broke into a pasture and killed two cows, a judge has ordcr::d. Richard Senter said Wednesday he eventually lost 23 cows from his spooked herd (lf 72. A veterinarian. Dr. Diedrich, said the cows gave less milk, lost weight and had to be fed costly dietary supplements. Senter sued fi>r S6,800, and state Supreme Court Justice Lawrence E. Kahn settled the case this weekbefore it came to trial. After such incidents, the county successor must make a recom­mendation to the state on whether a farmer should be reimbursed. 
-AP 
Four menwho were detained at Caesars Boardwalk 

.Regency Casino in Atlantic City after they were accused of being card counters have won a S184,000 verdict against the casino for faise imprisonment. Caesars plans to appeal the Monday jury award of $46,000 to each of the four men who played at blackjack at the casino in 1979. said spokesman Herb Wolfe. Card counters arc players who keep track of the cards played and increase their bets when the remaining cards favor the players. The practice is not il­legal, but the Casino Control Co111mission allows casinos to ban card counters. Richard Wilde, attorney for the four men, said the jury could find false imprisonment because Caesars had created an at­mosphere in which the men believed they could not leave. One of the four, Joseph Bartolo of South Brunswick, added they were novices at blackjack. -AP 
Eleanor Powell, hailed as the world's greatest female tap dancer, died yesterday ofcancer at the age of69 in her Beverly Hill home, said a spokeswoman for the Los Angeles Fire Department. Miss Powell was the toast of Broadway in the 19 30s, starring in such musicals as "Rosalie." "Honolulu." "Lady Be Good" and tlttingly. "Born to Dance." Sht· retired in the late 19.40s after meeting and marrying a young actor named Glenn Ford, bur staged a comeback at age 4H with a dazzling 1961 performance ancc at the Sahara Hotel in Las Vegas. -AP 
Chrysler Co. has instituted a mass worker relief program the company says is designed to improve efficiency and quality, but United Auto Workers u,nion officials blame it for the layoff of about 
1,000 employees. AChrysler spokesman says it is "just coincidental" that production also has fallen. "They haven't shown us that quality" at the Windsor, Ontario, assembly plant is any better. said Frank LaSorda, president of UAW Local 444 in Windsor, across the Detroit River from Detroit. The plant was the first of Chry'sler's facilities to copy the Japanese break program where workers get breaks all at one time several times a day, allowing the assembly line, or parts of it, to be idled, said the spokesman, who asked not to be identitled. A~ a result, relief workers who befo gave their co-workers breaks and received I 0 cents more an hour because of their job classification. have been laid off, union officials said. -AP 
Increasing ClOUdS and continued cold today. High in mid and upper 20s. Light snow possibly developing tonight and en­ding tomorrow. Low tonight in upper teens to low 20s. High tomor­row in mid and upper 20s. -AP 
~­
AP Photo 


File 



lJ(!sign Editor..................... .\1aura .\1urphy /Jesign Assistants.... . ......... .Jim l\.4..:ye:-. Tim Farrell l.a)•outStaff......... . ......... Rookk's All T)•peS<•tters ............. . ... Scc:v~ Burg llrutT Oaklc); .Veu•sEditor........... ~ ...... David Rickabaugh Copy Editors..... .. ... ~ ~ ~ .. lllch Adam Paul \1c(jinn Features LaylJU/.............. (.n:gory Swicn:z .\jwrts Copy Editor............ Davie.! Dzicc.lzit~ 1)•pist.. .. .................. Laura fkgnan ND J)ay Editor ....... ........Tom :VIaclcnnan Ad Design...-....... ........ .. ...John & .\lary Photographer......................... Cheryl Ertclt liuestAppt~araf/ces....: ............... Cousin Liz Darhy anc.l Grift~ Paper. Chaser. <:anadians Thac.l anc.l Sc;th 
Trivialities \loose 
The Observer tUSPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame ana Sa1nt Marys Col~ lege SubscnptiOns may be purchased lor $25 per year i$15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 


Speaker of the House Thomas P. O'Neill, D-Mass., left, and House Majority Leaderjim Wright, D-Tex., talk with reporters outside the White House Monday after meeting with President Reagan concerning the fiscal year 1983 federal budget. (AP Photo) 


SMC-ND STUDENTS SUMMER PROGRAMS LONDON ··~·········May IS-June 11 
with travel in Ireland, Scotland, andFrance· 
ROME····················~une IS· July 14 
with travel in France, Germany and Switzerland 
Classes available in: --business 
--philosophy 
--history 
--theatre 
--sociology 
For more info, contact: Professor Black at 284-4948 or 272-3726 


eObserver Friday, February 12, 1982 -page 3 
ght-day visit 



Pope ventures to West Africa 
TICA:-.1 CITY ( AP) -Pope became pope in ll)7H. The pope last 
Paul II. shunning t·xtra visited Africa in ll)HO when he rity, tlics to Nigeria today on his toured six countries. trip abroad since an attempt on Thl· pope, 6 I, will have the same lift: last spring in St. Peter's basic staff with whom he has girdlt:d 
uafl'. tht· globe nearly four times -two · eight-day visit to four West Vatkan gendarmes, two Swiss an countries is the third trip to guards, two secretaries, two doctors 
t' African contint·nt and the I Oth and his p•-rsonal valt:t. by John Paul sintT he Amcrica11 Archbishop Paul "tar-
Finance Club opens 82 Mock Stock Market 
Only those stot·ks listnl on the :-.Jew York Stock Exchangt· and the Amt:rkan Stock Exchange and 
students can now having a minimum value of S'i may 

tht· Mock markt·t without using be transactt·d in. Tht· total value of heir own capital hy taking part in transactions, long and short, must bt: he Hnanu: Club's annual .\lock kss than the value of the portfolio. 
· "larkt:t which began yesterday Portfolios can be cleared only once a will continue through \larch I 0. day. 
Students may open accounts and Prizes will be awarded to those in­· transaelions in the lobby oftht: vestors whose portfolios have ap· lurky Building from 10 a.m. to I predated the greatest amount. 
.111. until Feb. ll). These will be awarded in two A S I 0,000 account can be opt·ned catt·gorics, one for business students r S2 and thfl'l" S I 0.000 accounts and one for non-business students. 
an be.· opened for S"i. This year's Prizes will be S"iO f()r t1rst place, S2"i vt·nt ditlcrs from prt·vious ones in for second, and S I 0 for third place. tat no transaction fees will bt· The event is co-sponsored by 
rgt·d al'tt:r opening an account. Th1, mson-.\1cKinnon Securities. 

PeopleofPraise Club lloUJs Vatican II 
By MARK BOENNIGHAUSEN hdd three times a year. The rctn·ats StaffRt•porter have been attended by a "couplt: of hundrc:d" students over the past 
Although only consisting ofa little yc:ars and they arc entirt:ly run by ovt·r SO members, the People of students he: added. Praise Club is a dynamic Christian Chuck Wood, a senior and a mem­organization. President of the dub, ber of the: group since his freshman Dan Faris, an art history major, year, rcmarkc:d that the group has states that tht• main philosophy of ht:lpcd him raise his lt:vcl of the group is found in the lay aposlt­"Christian maturity." Wood ex­olatt·s set forth in Vatkan II. We arc plained that the group, like most col­"not like any other group on lege groups, docs havt· internal 
conflicts from time to time. WoodWe try to. be Christians noted that he has lt:arncd from any c.:ontlic.:t he has c:ncountcrcd. Thestudents while living members of the group art· a "good 
bunt·h ofpeople" he commented. The dub produces an atmosphere of"encouragement, advice, and con­

life.' 
structive criticism" in an efli>rt to enable a pc:rson to follow a more Christian life. Wood added. Tht· campu~.--t·xplaint:d Ferris. and our 

main tht:mt· is tht· effort to "be the light ofChrist." 
group has provided me with advice and spiritual support sinct· my fresh­

Tht· group has members from man year, Wood commented.
h Notrt· Damt· and Saint .\larys noted. Wt· live a life: 
cinkus, the pope's chief ad\'ance 
man, will await the pope in the 
Nigerian capital of Lagos instead of 
riding with him in a specially out­
fitted Alitalia Airbus. 
:'lligeria, Africa's most populous 
riation, will he the center of the: trip, 
with shorter stops in Gabon, Benin 
and tiny Equatorial Guinea. 
For tht· Homan Catholic Church, 
Africa has bcc.:omt· a t"crtik ground 
for converts ever since missionaries 
set tiH>t there. The: Vatican estimates 
2 million Catholics art· baptized 
c:very year. An estimated "i"i million 
Africans are Homan Catholics. 
Packing churches with handclap­
ping .\1asses and portraits of a black 
Jesus, the Church expects to claim 
I H percent of Africa's total popula­
tion hy the yc:ar 2000 -an increase 
from I percent a ccntUf)' ago. 
John Paul was woundt·d last .\lay 
13 in the assassination attempt in St. 
Pctc:r's Square. A Turkish terrorist, 
Mc:hmct Ali Agca, has been con­
victed of the attempted murder of a 
head of state and sentenced to lite . 
imprisonmc:nt. 
On his first trip outside: the Vatican after the shooting, to the Umbrian city of Todi, the pope howc:d to dc:mands for heavy sc:curity but was disappointed hy not bc:ing ablt: to gc:t dose to the crowd. Later, to the despair of both Italian and Vatican security oftkials during his t·ustomary Sunday parbh visits, the: pope broke protocol and pushed aside barriers to minglt: with the: crowd. 
A Swiss Guard oftkcr. who wishes 
not to be identified, said. "We: can 
tdl him it is dangerous for him to get 
out there with the people, hut we 
can't do anything c:xccpt obey and 
pray after the pope says he is going 
some place." 
Vatican officials say the pope will usc the trip to cxtc:nd the: olive branch to Islam, the fastest growing religion in Africa. 
Three of the four African presi­dents john Paul will meet arc practicing .\1oslems. 
The pope has repeatedly stressed similarities between Christian and .\1oslem faiths -bt:licf in a single God, dislike.: of materialism, the tami­ly and importance of religious education. 
In booming, oil-rich N igcria, john Paul will touch down in four cities, including the lbo Capital of Enugu, the center of the bloody civil war ( Il)6 7 to llJ70) which ended with the ddi:at of the breakaway state of Biafra, where many of Nigeria's Homan Catholics live. 


·d In prayt·r" ht· com­
r

llowcn·r mcmbt·rs do get 1ln·d a~ an intl'fgal part of pu~ lift· he adc.kd. We try to be .hristian~ and ~tudcnt~ whik living >Ill an authentic Christian lift-Ferris 
ARMY ROTC SCHOLARSHIPS 
The group strives to bring the ~~pd into :.ccular situation~ Ferris mc.·ntnl. lie rcmarknl that the 1rganization t·ncouragt·s other ~tu­
• 2 YR SCHOLARSHIPS •3 YR SCHOLARSHIPS 
·nt~ to han· an at·tivc rdation~hip 
ilh <:hri:.t. Ferrb added that tht· 
is interested in bringing attcn· 
SCHOLARSHIPS COVER TUITION,
m to tht· teac.:hings of Vatican II. · club also promotes a full Club­ian lili:stylc through prayn, the: 
·rL·mc.·nts, and works of mercy. 
BOOKS AND FEES 
<>m· of the bask principles of the iation is tht· importann· of l'erri!'t cxplaint·d. Thl· club !'> prayt·r mct·tings on a regular 
$100 PER MONTH WHilE ENROllED 
and it also has a mass c:Vt·ry y i11 St. l:d!>t Ferris addt·tl. Othn Fcrrb 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: I MARCH 1982
lied, include t·ncouragt·mt·nt of ·rt·mentallife and autlwntic.: devo­on to \lary. .\lost of the group L·mbc.·r~ attend mass on a daily 
FOR MORE DETAILS CALL: 
h·rrb remarked. :'lloting the MH.:ial cn·nts the c.:lub >lc.b almo!'tt t'Vl'f)' WtTkl·nd. l'ari~ 
MAJOR BOB McllHARGIE 
plainnlthat the. club is not wholly · I. An anivity tht· club !'tpon­lrs. h·rrb said an· rt·trt·at!'t that are 
239-6264/6265 


The Observer Friday, February 12, 1982 ­
...Linco 


continuedfrom page 1 

coin roots back to England and found current branches around the United States, where "the Lincolns are all over the country." 
Marfan syndrome, which varies widely in severity, has followed the Lincolns. It affects, by one estimate, at least five of every 100,000 Americans of all sexes and races, Schwartz said. "That t1gure should probably be multiplied by 5 to 10," he added. "and even that may be conservative." 
Marfan syndrome, caused by a dominant gene that affects men and 
women  equally,  was  named  for  
French  pediatrician  Bernard-Jean  
.\1arfan,  who first  described  it  in  

1896. Schwartz said those affected, 
Phone calls got you nowhere, but this should get her attention. Amission requiring split-second timing, perfect planning and most importantly, some surefooted, stand-up guys. 
When you come down to earth, spring for something special. 'lCmight, let it be Li>wenbrau. 
Lowenbrau.Here's to good friends. 
~ 1982 Beer Brewed by Miller Brewmq Co., Milwaukee. W1s. 
:::::af#/ff'e/;0/,;z;yt?'§'Mb0?&fff#4'4@7<%YWM$$ff//${,WP@fl#&ffff,}W-'#rY/JdWM@WM@//#J;;@k@;W/ffff//ffcfi#/AWffMI@/H/ff#ff.dff///dffh7//ffffffffU!M#&'tl/llll#ffffffff//W/W@'H&))k';j({fi1£Z0.cl. 
in extreme cases, "are usually very tall and lean. Their arms are long and the fing~rs get very long and thin. The lower part of the body gets very long." 
The face is gaunt and angular, with large ears and nose. The overall ap­pearance is one of gawkiness be­
cause  of  the  long,  loose-jointed  
limbs.  
The  scientific  term  for  the  

syndrome is arachnodactyly, derived from the Latin word for spider. 
Schwartz noted that at least one Lincoln contemporary said the president had "spidcrlike legs" when seated. Lincoln himself com­mented on the size ofhis feet and the length of his arms. That's conHrmed by the few measurements available 
• • .Budget 
continuedfrom page 1 

tinucd their assault upon the Reagan 
spending plan. 

~c11ate D<:mocratic Leader Rubert I 
Byrd of \X'cst Virginia, who asked : 
Reagan to withdraw his budget on 
\\ cdncsday. issued a second state­
ment criticizing both the spending I 
plan and Reagan's rhetoric in 
defending it. · 

"Wt: must not draw lines in the dirt," he said. and called for Reagan to consider changes in his defense budget. the three-year tax cut plan adopted a year ago and the deep new cuts proposed in domestic programs. 
"We are presented with a budget that is not believable or enactable." said Byrd. 
Baker, Laxalt and .\1ichel said there was no chance that Congress would take the budget away from Reagan and complete work on a spending plan by itself 
But their reaction was in stark contrast to a year ago. when the president promised a balanced 
budget by 19H4. and the House and 
Senate rushed to approve his 
program with only minor modiHca· 
lions. 

Baker said he supports Reagan's proposal, but once again said, "There arc some good things" in a plan unveiled Wednesday by Sen. Er· nest Hollings, D-S.C., to cut Reagan's proposed deficit in half. 
Hollings favors freezing defense spending at the l 982 level for one year; eliminating cost-of-living in­creases for one year on Social Security and government pension programs and skipping the I 0 per· cent personal income tax cut scheduled to take effect in july. 
Reagan favors a S33 billion in­crease for defense spending next year and wants no changes in his tax cut programs. 
The administration totall) 
rejected Hollings' plan on Wednes 
day. 

Federal Reserve Chairman Paul A Yolckcr said yesterday that the I 9H. and I 984 deficits should b trimmed substantially. He was no specitk about the upcoming thea year. but he said the I ':)8-! dctki should be lowered to about S60 bil lion. 



The Observer Friday, February 12, 1982 -page 5 
'Reds' captures 12 nom.inations 
1st Annual mQ,(Jf GtQS; DQnce-on 
This Saturday1 Pm-1Am Public Dancing 9 Pm -1Am 
one is invited to join us for --New Orleans Style food --Special Guests --Door Prizes including 

--A trip for two to New Orleans --T.V.'s and a Stereo --Dinners at loca·lrestaurants ~-Weekend "get-away" packages 
THE commiTTEE WISHES TO THANK THE FOLLOWING FOR THEIR 
HOLLYWOOD (AP) -"Reds," the talc of an American journalist caught up in the Russian Revolution, captured 12 A1.:ademy Award nominations yesterday -four of them for Warren Beatty, the actor, director, producer and writer who has failed to win an Oscar in seven tries. 
"On Golden Pond" collected I 0 nominations for the S4th Academy Awards, including best actor perfor· mance by Henry Fonda as a man reluctant to face old age. Fonda, 76 and in poor health, has never won an Oscar and is considered a strong sentimental favorite. 
Fonda's daughter, jane, a two-time Oscar winner, was nominated for best supporting actress for portray­ing his daughter in "On Golden 
nominee for his role as playwright 
Cl• • • N D 

Eugene O'Neill in "Reds." Also
urn ' tnton 1otn • • ' nominated were James Coco, "Only
Bl J When I John
• ff

P R Alumnl Sta S
• • ' 
Two persons have joined the lJni· versity of Notre Dame's Division of Public Relations, Alumni Affairs and Development as regional directors of development, it has been an­nounced by Michael A. Manusco,Jr., director ofdevelopment. 
Thomas J. Blum, a 1968 Notre Dame alumnus who has spent the last 12 years as a midwestern sales representative for Metropak, a glass manufacturer which merged recent· 
ly with Ball Corporation of Muncie, will have responsibility for the Uni· versity's fund-raising activities in Kentucky, Ohio, western Pennsylva­
nta, West Virginia and most of In· diana and Michigan. Blum, who served two years as an Army officer after graduation, worked in 

CONTRIBUTION TO THIS YEAR'S mARDI GRAS: 
Eslinger's T.V. and Appliahce Barnaby's Pizza 1st Source Travel (N.D.) Sears Hudsons 
J.C. Penneys 
Commercial Nat'l Bank of Betwyn,.lll. Hans Rinesch Hammes N.D. Bookstore Tepe's Werntz's Hardware B~twyn Photo (Ill) Rlbotdy Drugs Noble Romans Glppet's Holiday Inn 
Pond." 
The three other nominees for best picture were "Atlantic City," the story of an aging, small-time hood in the gambling resort; "Chariots of Fire," an inspirational account of British runners overcol'ling prejudice, and "Raiders of the Lost Ark," a fast-paced adventure that grossed more money than any other film last year. 
Beatty, who portrays journalist john Reed in the 3 I /2-hour epic, was also nominated for fi>Ur awards in I .978 for "Heaven Can Wait," but won nothing. 
Competing with Beatty and Fonda for best actor are Burt lancaster as the hero in "Atlantic City," Paul Newman as the innocent victim of irresponsible journalism in 
:\1etropak sales offices in Detroit, 
Milwaukee and Chicago. 
Cathleen A. Clinton, alumni dirt:c· 
tor at Old Dominion University in 
Norfolk, Va., will be assuming super­
vision ofNotre Dame's development 
programs in Alabama, Arkansas, 
Georgia, North and South Carolina, Louisiana, Florida, Mississippi, Ten· nessee, Oklahoma and Texas. Clin­ton holds a bachelor's degree from 
Emmanuel College in Boston and a master's degree in liberal studies from Georgetown University in Washington, D.C.. She worked in 
sales and in government relations, and prior to coming to Old Dominion in I979, she was a legislative assistant to Virginia State Delegate Elise 8. Heinz. 
laugh"; Gielgud, 

"Arthur"; Ian Holm, "Chariots of 
Fire"; Howard E. Rollins, "Ragtime." 
For supporting actress: Melinda Dillon, "Absence of :\1alice"; Jane Fonda, "On Golden Pond"; Joan Hackett, "Only When I laugh"; Elizabeth McGovern, "Ragtime"; Maureen Stapleton, "Reds." 
The nominees for direction coincided with those for best picture: Beatty, "Reds"; Hugh Hud­son, "Chariots of Fire"; Louis Malle, "Atlantic City"; Mark Rydell, "On Golden Pond"; Steven Spielberg, "Raiders of the Lost Ark." 
For best foreign language film: "The Boat is Full," Switzerland;"Man of Iron," Poland; "Mephisto," Hun· gary; "Muddy River," Japan; "Three Brothers," Italy. 
Johnny Carson returns as host of the awards show :when they are presented live on national television at the Los Angeles Music Center on Monday, March 29. 
"Absence of Malice," and Dudley Moore, the overprivileged inebriate of"Arthur." 
Katharine Hepburn -who had won three Oscars and been nominated 13 times -was named a best actress contender for her role as the peace-making wife and mot­her in "On Golden Pond." The other nominees are Diane Keaton. as Reed's lover Louise Bryant in "Reds," Marsha Mason as the reformed alcoholic a1..'tress in "Only When I Laugh," Susan Sarandon as the girl Lancaster falls in love with in "Atlantic City," and Meryl Strecp as the title character in "The French Lieutenant's Woma1;1." 
Jack Nicholson, best actor of 197S for "One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest," bccaml· a supporting actor 
Barclay's Howard Johnson's Burget King Pizza Hut 
Camelot music Golden Beat 
Steak & Ale mouis Inn Rocco's Pizza 

River City Records Hill's True-Value Hardware 
N.D. Football Office 
University Hairstylists The Huddle Pizza Supply of Indiana 
Fr. William Egan advertises the coming ofValentine's Day wilb balloons and hearts on his Broli'nson Hall windou•. (Photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
Osco Drugs Thornburgh's 
The Loading Door Athletic Annex Gilberts 
Jeremiah Sweeneys Radio Shack Indiana motor Bus N.D.-Chicago Spottsware mcDonald's of Roseland Swift Ice Cream WSND The Observer mcDonald's of Ironwood 
Coca-Cola Bottling Co. 
we -!f!fP 11.111.111 
I 

f­
' ------------------------­
' The Observer Friday, February 12, 1982 -page 6 



r---------·50¢ oM coupo"·---------,
I FARMER'S GARDEN RESTAURANT
1 We're "The first place in freshness" . I 
I1 qve--have a Qallge aggolltWte&tt Ob ga&tdwtcheg·, 
1 .9oupg, .9aQadg.
I
I qve evett have Cllepeg, Quwhe. Chw~ett g. WlO/le. 
D : 
0 0 
-g ~ .9omethtttg to pQeage evellyotte--g ~ 
I .---=------='; I1cAttd lletrtetrtben. 1 _. . ··\ 1 
I evellytht&tg ill hoWteWtade. I 
I I I I 1 Located in University usrAIJMif'l' IIPark Mallnext to Sears I
T.M 

I I 
•-----------· (~oupon -----------J 
fruit baskets 
delivery service ·­Open 7 days ~~P 
Valentine's Day: 10:00-2:00 
62981 u.s. 31 s 

.---..lll*o 
291-3937 

l 
. !~INE'SDAY 
,• ..... ·...... -: :' . 
.. .,. IF ·. ·:.·. ..:: , . . .. :· 
.r ·?~ 
· !!. say it with flowers... she'II love you for it 
ANYTHING ROWS 

n. ironwood at toll road 
directly east · 1/4 mi. north of campus of Douglas 
--.... _ ­
~~~~,~GffEAt-WAll-.---Jv-;c;,---1 
t ---Chinese &American Restaurant ORIENTAL STYLE f t &Cocktail lounge CUT COD FILET f t Banquet rooms auailable Banquet 5 group rates auailable SAN DWIC H f 
f THE WHOLE TOWN IS TALKING... with fries,/ettuce, f t About our Fantastic Cuisine and our and tomato f : Great Chinese/American Buffet $2.45 f 
, for only $299[ L--------------.l 
' Now For Your Pleasure We Feature HOURS: f
t The Following Choice of Family Specials Mon.-Thurs.: 11 :30a.m.-10:00p.m. Fri. &Sat .......J 1:30 a.m.-11 :OOp.rn. 
t 

f Fri.: e Ham steak Pineapple Ring Sun ............... . p.m. , N t
$3.9S 4 9 
f eseefChop Suey II Ill .11 t f 
A Sat.: eBakedChicken 
1 

' e Sea Salad Chicken t -· A 6 130 Dixie HWY .South f ' ' Sun.: e Deep Fried Shrimp South Bend I-f
f 

e Szechuan Beef with Onion Roseland · ,_E t
t e All above Chinese soecials served with soup and nan-alcoholic beverage, -f 
A e All ~~:~;i~':;,=~:aen~:::~1ials served with potato, vegetable, rolls, and ofcourse ~ 1~ -1376 f 
' our fantastic 25 1tem salad bar. ~ ~ & 
........... ~~..-.~~~~~~~...-. ...... ~~ .... ~---------~---....-~---~...., 

Chisholm. announces retirem.ent 
Newcutbacks endangerkidneypatients funds 
WASIIINGI'ON ( AP) -Kidney dialy!>b patient~ charged yesterday that their lives are threatened by proposed Reagan administration nil~ in \kdicare reimbursement ti.>r 
dialysi~. 
\1ore than I00 kidnq· patients 
and M'Veral dozt·n social workers. 
nurse~ and other advocates 
dc:monstratnl at tht· lwadquartc:r~ of 
tht· I kalth and lluman Services 
lkpartment against the planned 
nt·w limits on dialysis paymc:ms. 
Tht· new on·rall payment rate of S I2H li.>r dialysis in dinics anJ :S 152 in ho~pitals -with some variations to takt· local labor costs into account -i!'> designed to save .'vkdicare SI:\0 million in the tiscal yc:ar begin­ning <>ct. I and to encouragt· paticnts to usc less expensive home: dialysis. 
"It see-ms to mt· tlwy just want us ;Ill to go home and dk," said wlwc:lchair-bound Creola Whitaker, ·16, who has bc:en undergoing dialysi~ three times wt·ckly ti.Jr a dc:cadt·. "Wt· live in apartments. You havt· no water and no he:at half the tinw. What Jo you do in a case like: that when you ha\'c: to go on the: 
machine:?" 
l>an Borquc:. deputy executive 
sn·n·tary li.>r health of tht· I>c:part­
mt·nt of llc:alth and Human St·rvicc:s, 
rnt·t·ting in a department auditorium 
with the group. said, "This b not a 
regulation that's designed to have: 
pt·oplt· go off dialysis and dk. That is 
not the intention at all." 
But ht· acknowlc:dgc:J the ad­mintstration, on instructions from Congrt·ss, wa~ trying to "save some mom·y" and provide incentives li.>r homt· dialysis. 
l.atl'f. llc:alth and Human St·rvicc:s 
St·crt·tary Rkhanl Schwdkcr i~sucd 
a statement denying that tht• 
agt·nt-y's regulations will harm kid­
ney dialy!>b patients. 
"lnMead. we arc revising our pay­
mt·nt ~tructure to carry out the 
Congrt·ss' dt·sire to encourage more 
dlkicnt usc of dialysis services. The 
dt·tnmination of whether a patient 
SecondScene • 
announces auditions 
Opt·n auditions for the: ND/S.\IC St·t·oml St'l'lll' production of David \\amt·t's American Bujji1lo will he hdd this Sunday. Ft·h. l·t, at H:OO in Washington Hall. The play is the <:hicago-born playwright's best to date and possibly ont.· of the finest in :\rnt·rican drama. Pcrt(>rrnance datt·s art· \>larch 2(, & 27 in Washington 11all. Tht· t'aM includes thrt'l' rnak kad!>. All intt·rt·stnl art· l'ncouragcd 
to audition.  
To all lonely  I  
hearts  ~  

t 
.• : 
• 
• 
: 
gets care at home or in a facility is one to be made: by the physician in consultation with the patient." 
Under kidney failure:, which is ir­reversible, the: body accumulates water. salt and toxic wastes that can lead to death. Dialysis machines arc used in such cases to purit)' the blood Juring three-times-a-week sessions ofthree to ti.JUr hours each. 
Medicare: is spc:nJing an es­timated S 1.8 billion this year on 59,200 Jialysis machine users, 'i,OOO transplant patients, anJ 8,000 treat­ment recipients. 
There: were: only I 1,000 paients when the: program began in mid­1975, anJ the bill t(>r 197--i, the tirst full year. was S229 million. 
Medicare normally pays for care only t<>r the: aged or disablc:J workers, but Congress decided to make an exception for Jialysis patients under 6'i. It is the: only chronic disease which Medicare covers in that way. Medicare spenJs more than S20,000 annually for each patient. 
Although those patients account for less than 0.2 percent of the Medicare: bcnc:tkiaries, they ac­count ti.>r 4 percent of Medicare's costs. 
The department says 649 hospi­tals and 40'i independent dinics pt·rfi.mnc:J Jialysis in 1980 at a cost ranging from SHS per treatment in some centers to S214 in others. 
The average: payment is now S174 li.>r dialysis in hospitals and Sl58 t<>r clinics, according to Dan Bourque:, the: department's deputy executive secretary ti.>r health. The: average cost was not available, but the median cost, according to a 1980 study, is much lower: SI08 in dinics, SI~'i in hospitals and S97 for home: treatment. 
The median tigure is the: figure: exceeded by half the facilities. 
The: new payment rules arc being published in the Federal Register today for 60 days of public com-

good sense and conscience: of the: 
ment. 

Amnican people." 
,.... . .....•......• 
• • 
: 
~ 
(.~~~ ~ 

angry style: grew more subdued, leading some critics to say she had lost interest in her work. 
"I haven't been angry for some time now. It burns up too much of the energy I need;" she told an inter­viewer in 1979. "You don't get any­thing with wild rhetoric. I've lived to see how it works." 
But she mixed no words yester­d;~y in describing the Reagan ad­ministration as one "that is cancelling the past SO years of human progress in America." 
Educated as a teacher. Mrs. Chis­holm worked in day care and nurs­ery schools until she was swept into politics by the civil rights move­ment. In 1964, she was elected to the New York Assembly, where she 1>erved two terms. In 1968, a court­ordered redistricting created a new ('ongressional district in the black ght:tto of Brooklyn's Bcdti.>rd­Stuyvesant, and \1rs. Chbholm ddeated James Farmer, a nationally known civil rights llgure. to win tht· scat. 
Fiercely independent hc:r autobiography was titlc:d "Unhought and Unbossc:d" -.'vlrs. Chisholm was in Washington only a few weeks bdi.>rc: she began loudly attacking the: congrc:ssionallc:adership. 
lroni<:ally. she is now on the Rules Committee, where loyalty to tht· leadership is the prime qualitkation for membership. She: usually, but not always, votes with the speaker. 
Aiming to "rattle the power structure:." she sought the: Democratic prc:sidemial nomina­tion in 1972. She t·ntc:rc:d a number of presidential primaries, but Jrew lc:ss than I0 percent of the vme in every contest. 
Following that campaign. she began to devote more time to her congressional activities and less to maintammg a national image. During this period, she achic:vc:J a number of legislative victories, including programs ti.>r disad­vamagc:d students and extension of the federal minimum wage to domestic workers. 
.'v1rs. Chisholm hinted publicly at retirement many times in recent years. and has actively sought other posts. She has also said she: wants to spend more time with her husband. who is in poor health. 
\1rs. Chisholm said her decision nm to run for an eighth tnm "is not my funeral, nor is it my retirement." 
"Out of the political stranglehold and on my own terms, I will con­tinue to tight the: good tight ... making even louJc:r appeals to the: 
Friday, February 12, 198_2 -page 7 

The late afternoon sun shining tbrough the 11'indou•s at tbe Rock casts a sbadou• of intensi~l' on Ibis u•eightlifter. (Photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 

An Evening with 
JAMES TAYLOR 
and His Band! 
Feb. 23-25 $13.95 
ley Chisholm, who came to Congress as an outspokt·n maverick I~ years ago, said ycstt·rday she now finds the: job "tt·dious and frustrat­ing" anJ will not run t(>r rc:-clc:ction. 
"It has become increasingly dif­tkult to carry the tragic messages hack from Washington to the job­less, homeless and hopdc:ss Brook­lynitcs," :'llc:w York Democrat saiL! in a writtt·n statement. 
.'v1rs. Chisholm, 57, the first black woman ever to win a scat in the: House: of Representatives, became known nationally for her fiery speeches anJ her 1972 campaign for the: presidency. 
But in recent years, as she gained seniority and intluencc:. her once 


Valentznes 1 : Concord & Pterre Morant 
~--~r:~~~ :..~!~•••~l$:~•••J 
Holiday ALSO AT TICKETRON 
All Sale• Final
Star 

HOLIDAY PLAZA 1-65 & U.S. 30Theatre MERRILLVILLE, IN 
------~--­
Friday, February 12, 1982 ­
The Observer 


Technical Majors: 
than the nation's largest steelmaker: ­
We're in chemicals, with annual sales of over $1 billion. We're in resource development, ready to fill industry's growing needs for coal, iron ore, ura­nium and other vital materials. We build complex structures all over the country. We offer engineering services all over the world. And that's far from all. 
Join us, and you're immediately a full-fledged member of our manage­ment team. Your op~XJrtunity for advancement is as bright as you are. 

Claims 10murders 
Paroleeleads police tobodi 
U.S. Steel invites you. 
to checkouta career 
•

tn management. 
D 
You're a self-starter. U.S. Steel is a company on the move, and we're looking for people with the initiative to tackle major projects and push them through to completion. 
0 
You're a fast thinker. While the dock titks, you may have to make 
decisions involving the future of thousands of U.S. Steel people-and the in­vestment of millions of dollars. 
D 
You're a team player~ At a dynamic place like U.S. Steel, guiding and 
motivating others is likely to be an important part of your career in management. 
.Ioday -u.s. ?teeUs a whole loCmore • -:~ ,.Mon~y-!s go<?<;:L Fringe benefrts ar.e .. 

PALATKA, Fla. (AP)-A 36-year­old Wyoming prison parolee who has led police to the bodies of three hitchhikers and reportedly claims he has killed at least I 0 people was ordered held without bond yester­day in his first court appearance. 
Robert Dale Henderson appeared in court on a warrant charging him with the Jan. 25 murder of Dr. :\tur­ray B. Ferderber, 79, a physician from Pittsburgh. Ferderber's wife found him shot in the back of the head in their isolated mobile home near the small community of Sat­suma. 
No charges were filed immediate­ly in the deaths of the hitchhikers, who have not been identified. 
. . . Keats 
continuedfrom page I 
directing us. 

Also, sometimes I open up a passage of Keats, like you can do with the Bible, and it speaks to me. I sense somebody there. 
Q: If you hadn't become in­terested in the life and poetry of john Keats, what do you think you would be doing today? 
I'd probably be like most other ac­
tors struggling in New York in off­
Broadway productions. Although I 
still do theatre work in New York 
now and then. 

I also would like to say to the stu­
dents that often your appreciation of 
what a writer is saying is enhanced 
by knowing about his life as a man. I 
was able to get inside Keats himself 
If someone is having trouble with 
a particular writer, I advise them to 
go to their biographies and learn 
about that person. Writing is a 
reflection of what the person ts 
thinking about. There is great value 
to find a person who you are in­
terested in who lived during another 
time period. It helps you to see your 
own time period more objectively. 


... 'liberal. And you can take advantage of a variety of continuing personal-devel­opment programs-including tuition refund. Visit your placementoffrce and check out the openings our representa­tive plans to discuss. But don't worry if what interests you most happens not to]>e on the list. Just write us with your qualifications: Dave Bates, College Relations, U.S. Steel, 600 Grant St., Pittsburgh, PA 15230. :\n equal op~XJrtunity employer. 

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. ( AP) -A simulated launch of the space shuttle Columbia was successfully completed yesterday night after being aborted earlier in the day by problems with a faulty computer system. 
Rocky Raab, a spokesman for Ken­
nedy Space Center, said the 6 p.m. 
mock mission was error-free. It had 
been rescheduled because of a 
problem in the "shared peripheral 
area" of the launch processing sys­tem. 
The system is used only for simulations and would not have af­fected the third launch, set for Mar. 22, officials said. The special com­puter programs on board Columbia and at the launch control center are designed to mimic actual flight con-
After yourlastexam, whattoughquestions will youstillbe facing? 

W don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
II 
Contact: 
Rev. Andre Leveille. C.S.C. Vocation Director Box 541 Notre Dame. IN 46556 
(219) 239-6385 


Friday, February 12, 1982 -page 9
Editorials 
Can conservatives maintain momentum? 

The politi~:<ll season is hcre again (didn't miss it at all, did you), which means the devious minds inhabiting the smoke-tilled rooms will be making their usual thrusts towards the thrones of power. Here are some notes on what to expe~:t locally, and how these happenings arc indicative of what's going on around the na­tion .... 
It is February now, but "Hiler '82" bumper stickers were visible in early November. John Hiler has been in office as the representative of In­diana's Third District for just over a year now, but it looks as if he's dig­ging in for a long stay. Democrats in this area don't seem ready to mount a strong challenge to the young incum­bent just yet, and as in the GOP vic­
tory years of 1968 and 1972, the Left is in linancial disarray. 
No such problems on the Right, ot' course. When Republicans hit elec­torally hard times, such as 1964 or 1976, the consequence is never money but membership. The bucks are always there, it's simply the dwindling numbers of registered Rightists that alarms the GOP. That problem may soon become past his­tory, but more on that later. 
It's hard to overemphasize the im­ponance of money in political campaigns, and the Republicans aren't having too much difficulty raising the stuff right now. The high­powered National Conservative Political Action Committee, led by the young fanati~: Terry Dolan, is throwing all its powers of innuendo and slandn into the 1982 · races, aiming at ousting ~u~:h fat targets as Edward Kennedy and other Iibera.) enemies. Kennedy was even the sub­ject of a two-page attack in Columbia Journalism Reviell' last month, designed to eat away at Kennedy's national media fan dub. CJR is not read too widely outside of the jour­nali~m business, and the numbcr of \1assa~:husetts voters the ad reached was cenainly infinitcsimal. But 
wh.:n you've gottht:: green .... 

Getting back to the local scene, 
Indiana looks particularly rosy for 
the Republicans. Though the state 
lost on.: scat in Congress after the 
1980 ccnsus, the Republican­
controlled legislature has redistrict.:d 
the state in the finest sense of good 
old-fashiont::d gerrymandering. In­
diana's 6-5 Democratic majority will 
almost definitely be reversed in favor 
of the Republicans (for example, 
thr.:c Democratic incumbents were 
placed in tht:: same district), and som.: 
political observers arc calling the 
Hoosier state one of the most power­
ful GOP strongholds in the country. 

This cenainly won't hun Jo1m 
Hiler, whose already conscrvativc 
district was altered only slightly, or 
Sen. Richard Lugar, who also comes 
up for re-election in November. 

Lugar, the popular ex-mayor of In­
dianapolis, has the potential to 
bcwme the first Hoosier senator to 

win four terms as his star makes a 
slow but steady ascent into tile na­
tional forum. Mike Kendall, ex­
Domer and one of Lugar's 
D.:mocratie challengers, is not whol­
ly inaccurate when hc accuses Lugar 
of lifelong aspirations to the vice­presidency, but the Demos will need more than stinging catch phrases to defeat thc incumbent. Like about a million dollars more. Unless the Democratic party can really focus the blame for the faltering economy on Ronald Reagan, incumbents like Lugar art: sate in '82. 
John Hiler is in a similarly sturdy position. Hiler, in his first year, kcpt all promises with regard to backing Ronald Reagan, for better or for worse. If you look at his rccord strictly from a constituent's point of view, it's for worse. He has not push.:d hard for Jobs or addt::d revenue for Michiana. and in fact dropped thc initiativc for a f.:d.:rally­fundcd .:thanol plant in South Bend, which would have providt::d lots of 
jobs. 
But Hil.:r is sticking to his prin­ciples. and his "mandate," to back Reagan's programs for the overall good, even if it means slighting the locals. It's a hard principle to argue with, in these times when everyone is out for themselves and themselves only, and as long as Hiler can keep winning, more power to him. 
Now if only Hiler weren't backing the former host of Death Valier Days, w.:'d be making som.e progress. Even when the House of Representatives was condcmning the AWACS sale by 353-16. Hiler was one of 13 Republicans to back the 
president. In fact, of the top 16 
issues voted on in the House in 1981, 
Hiler opposed Rcagan on only two, 
both Tennessee water/energy 
projects. Otherwise, Hiler backed 
votes on thc B-1 bombcr, th.: \!IX 
missile system, increasing the na­

tiona! debt ce111ng, eltmmat.ng the Legal Services Corp., slashing social program spt::nding, etc. Hiler's con­tention that a fr.:shman congressman cannot make much individual head­way is plausiblc. but why settle for follow the leadt::r? The reason the future continues to look bright for the Right is the increasing conservatism of voters 18-24 years old, as delineated in a recent national survey conducted by UCLA, suppon.:d by a Ne11· York Times/CBS Ne11·s pt1ll released ovcr the summcr. In the UCLA results. students on thc Lcft ten years ago outnumbered those on thc right by bettcr than two-thirds 
(38.1 percent to 15.2 percent): .B~t today, those on the Right slightly outnumber those on the Left (20. 7 percent to 19.7 percent). The rest, as 
always, label themselves·· Middle of the Road." 

Tom Jackman 
Opinion 

The Times' poll didn't find 4uitc so many Independents, but it did il­lustrate th.: more recent gains the Republicans have made in the 18-24 bracket: whcr.: 35 percent of collegc­ag.: voters d.:clarcd th.:msclves R.:publicans, and 13 p.:rcent Inde­pendent in 1980, in 1981 the R.:publican figur.: was up to 43 pcr­ccnt, lnd.:pcndt::nts down to six per­cent. Thc trend is undeniable, with th.: only question now being "When will it stop?" You can answcr that 
any way you like. 

The selling (out) of rock 
\1usic aitics last month mourned Sony; th.: rock group Orleans has a what may have been one of thc worst contract with Seagram's, and Charlie years in thc history of rock'n'roll. Daniels sings for both Busch beer 
What made 1981 so bad? There is and Skoal chewing tobacco. The list a strong conscnsus that no single al­·of rock-coporate dt::als is prodigious bum dcscrvcs the accolade ··Best of and growing. 19H I"; that the post punk sets in Los Rock 'n' Roll is selling out. Angeles and New York have sub­What's stanling is that no one seems divided into an indistinguishable ar-· to mind. ray of cults; that rock 'n'roll might as Indeed. everyone seems to well dry up as young Americans con­benefit: Rock stars tacitly t::ndorse tinue to mimic musicians in "air products sw:h as be.:r. booze, chlK'­guiwr" ,·ompctitions. olat.: and hi-fi eyuipm.:nt. :vlunufac­
Yct the rcal "rock bottom" was turcrs are pennittt::d to mention the preclpllatcd less by thc music itself group's name in rcterenct:: to their than by thosc who helped finance it. products. It's a happy two-way Twenty yeas alh:r the oiling Ston.:s str.:et. \1usicians offset their own ld't a Bohemian London hovel and costs while advenis.:rs profit from fiN tour.:d England. \!lick Jaggcr th.: good words of young America's took his band on a $50 million U.S. most tru~t.:d faccs. tour paid for. in pan, hy a perfume \ll.:anwhik, tans g.:t mort: con­
company. ,;ens. as well us a lovely full-color 
Tht:: Ston.:s, who~.: latcst album poster of the p.:rfonning group. paid. tak.:s th.: name of a scent ..:alkd or cxample hy Ronrico Rum. ·'Tattoo.·· wcrcn 't aInn.: 111 th..:ir us.: "The id.:a of \lladiSI>n Avenue of a patron. Eanh Wind and Fire is . gening involved with rock 'n' roll is now sponsored by Panasonic; Rod rclatiwly ncw." said .lay Col.:man. Stewan·., band 1s und.:rwrittt::n hy .11. presid.:nt of Rockhill. tht:: \llan­hattan company which links rockers to businessm.:n. "The climatc has changed radically since my genera­tion identified going to concens with their anti-war politics. Now people go to concens for entenainment. not to makc a political statement." 
Rock n roll's moorings to politics may have broken two years ago with thc last of the "No Nukes" con~:cns. Since then, rock anists have. shown very little enthusiasm for addressing-let alone acknowledg­ing -more unplea~ant realities about the world in which th.:y ope rat.:. 
For an apolitical g.:ncration like ours. however. cxprcssion naturally takes on ther cultural forms. And tht:: values of rock 'n' roll undoubtt::dly still con~tl!ut.: much of tht:: cultur.: most young Amt::ricans absorb. 

All tol> many of our friends haw maMered the tragic habit of consult­ing rock 'n ·roll lyrics for guidance a~ othcr gcn.:rations nught haw turned to the aphorism~ of Thomas Wolfe. Tcnnyson or tht:: Bible. Against a 
backdrop of often enotrmous profits, songwriters nonethel.:ss preached thc 
gospcl  of  the  simplc  lift:.  While  
everyone  could  sec  rot::k  stars  
"suffered  grcatly"  from  their  

astounding aftlucnc.:, fans took the Iyrit::s as the word. 
Rock· s huckstt::rism can only s.:al the crypt on a gcncration that is hur­ting itself in brand-name advertising. Popular mus1c s willingness to embrace the fint::r things in life will b.: scooped up by young peopk as an endorscmcnt of a lifestyle that's l.:ss than healthy. 
C.:nain scgm.:nts of th.: punk rock community anticipatc this digr.:s­sion. dn:ssing themselws as autonwtons. singing ballads of a standardized culture. and even posing in mock toothpa~tc ads on rccord Jack.:ts. U nfortunatdy. such protcsts agamst colnm.:rcialism have hct::n owrshadow.:J by the sclf­destructiw side dkcts that punker~ worry about J.:cp down. 
Of coursc. ..:orporat.:-rock mariag.:s may ht:: .:x..:usahlc wh.:n tht:: 
ManeD Glen and Cody Shearer 
Here and Now 

fans thcms.:lvcs c,.unt on tht:: same sponsors for jobs and oppoinuniti.:s in th.: futur.:. lnstcad of decrying the, "world's grcatcst rod, 'n' roll band" for selling out to business, many rock fans may st::c the Rolling Stones' l·apitulallon to "Tattoo" as a r.:flec­tion of th.:ir own im:linations and-­dare we say it -dreams. Rock may only be t(Jllowwg it~ audieiKC to the bank. 
On.: can blamt:: n.:ithcr musicians nor businessmen for discovcnng this owr-thc-counter culture. It has many prl!ct::dcnts. But wc f.:ar. a l'Uiturc where both an1~ts and patrons are w1llmg to givc up cwrything for a path of ll!ast r.:sist<tnct:: . 
Editorial Board
==Ihe='lbset:Ver== 
Editor·in-Cbief........... ..................john ,\1c(irath Founded November 3, 1966 
Executive News Editor ... Kclli Flint .\ports Editor ... .... .......... .. . ........ Sk1p Desjardin
--··­

The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the .'Veu•s Editor............................. l>avld Rickabaugh Photo Editor.................... ...................John Macor University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily SJ1C Executir•e Editor........... :oo.tary Agnes Care) Editorials L:'ditor ....................... Anthonv Waiton reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­,<,MCNews Editor......................Cathy Domanico Features Eattor .........................t.rcgory Swit:rcz ed as. accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinio"s and letters are the views Department Managers of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola Production Manager...................Michael Monk
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, i5 encoun.ged. 
Controller.............................................joe :oo.tultlur Circulation Manager .............Tom Maclennan Advertising Manager................. , .....Chris Owen Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 





---------~---~--~-~-----~----~----..,-~---~-~---­
• 

···············~~···························································· 
Cfi=S~~~~:_L_~~_______F_r_id=a=y=,F=e_b_ru_at)----..-=1=2,-:-1_;9=8=2=-=p-ag_e_l~O 
SCAgroup parodies medieval life 
C
hurches, YMCA's, YWCA's, ofCaer Anterethmor (Milwaukee), piece ofhandmade garb you have schools, and, weather permit­adding that even ifan aspiring young something no one else in the world ting, parks all over the country have fighter found a dragon to fight, has. You have something unique." become sites for medieval festivals dragons are a protected species in Since many people wear knives, 
the Middle Kingdom. and even swords as a part of their Tournaments are held at most garb, there are rigid rules for
Deirdre Murphy 

events, weather permitting. Fighters weaponry both in and out ofa tour­and tournaments. Kings and queen:> put on armor made ofleather, steel, ney. "A sharp knife is always loaded hold court and sit at the high table and sometimes kydex, a special hard and has no safety," pointed out during eight and ten course feasts. plastic; and fight with weapons Stormsinger, who in the mundane Knights in shining armour, nobles in made ofrattan, foam rubber, and world is jennifer Levine. Playing embroidered finery, and ladies in duct tape. Marshals run the tour­with weapons, whether real or im­floor length dresses occasionally neys, as they are called, and referee mitation, is not tolerated. "We're pause to answer the questions of them; and heralds call out the win­here to have fun, not kill each someone in "funny clothes," ners and next fighters for all to hear. other," one member said. (usually blue jeans and at-shirt) ex­All fights are fought until surrender Most society members choose a plaining that they are not part ofa or "death", death occuring when­persona, a person to 'be' when at play, they are part ofan international ever a blow that would have been fa­SCA events. This person can be 
group known as The Society for tal with a real sword is landed. The anyone who could have lived during Creative Anachronism, and that they winner of the Crown Tourney, the middle ages. Often, the first recreate the middle ages "as they which is held twice a year in the thing people choose is a persona should have been" as a hobby. Middle Kingdom, becomes the name. Ellis chose his name, he ex­
The Society, often called SCA, is a Crown Prince, and is crowned King plains, by spelling out the initials of medieval society dedicated to taking five months later. his mundane, or real name, Lee "the best and most useful" from the During the tourneys, arts contests Schneider. He explains that he has a cultures they recreate, so they can are held, ranging from story telling, horrible memory for names, and have the best of both modern and backgammon, medieval costume, chose the shortest name he could medieval cultures, even ifonly for a and embroidery to handmade think of. weekend at a time. One member of weapons. At this time merchants dis­the Society was quick to point out play their wares, usually within sight Persona histories are often made "SCA leaves out the bad parts: the in­ofthe tourney. Much oftheir mer­up in great detail. One member said, quisition, serfdom, ignorance, the chandise is handmade, reflecting the "Part of the fun is figuring out how black plague, and so on. The remain­fact that in the middle ages every­such anomalies as a mongol der is quite colorful, attractive, and thing was made by hand. Scotsman could have existed within lots offun." Members also add that Maria Llareselia de Ia Luna ex­the historical restrictions ofthe time there are some 20th century things plains "In the middle ages no two he was supposedly alive." People they'd rather not do without, for in­people had exactly the same things. interested in SCA should call Kent 
~-M@iW}@c,»}·"·'· 
stance, the toilet. In SCA you will see very litte store­Lucas, at 232-1685 or Deirdre
Thesefighters battle during a tourney, watched bySCA members 

"You can be a great lord or a bought garb (the term used for Murphy at 80 1 3. Kent is the senes­
young and old. The winnerofthe tournamentandhis lady (or her 

beautiful lady. You can fulfill all sorts medieval costume). This is because chal (equivalent ofpresident) of the
lord) will often sitat the high table with the peers ofthe realm 

ofstrange fantasies. You can't kill not only do stores rarely carry any­local shire, Mithrandiel Mardi,
during the feast held after the tourney. Winners ofthe various arts 

dragons, but you can win a tourna­thing that looks even remotely which includes South Bend, Elkhart, 
contests held during the tourney may also share this honor. 

ment," said Lord Ellis ofthe barony period, but also when you have a and the Mishawauka area. 
(photos by ,Uxron Rapkin) 

'Chariots of Fire' catches on 
H 
ugh Hudson has become the have needed to survive. He is a man their recreation ofthe period. It is an 
favorite son ofa lot offilm who must summon every last ounce environment that allows the values 
critics with his impressive debut ofathletic ability and determination of the charaters to thrive. 
film, Chariots of!ir~J.: While to achieve what he has precariously However, with all of the above 
put himself in a position to achieve. going for him, Hudson is unable to
i mtH&KwE ; :•ut m 
He is a braggart with a noble cause: get all he can· out of the movie. His Dennis Chalifour the underdog who has been given point ofview is often confusing, 
the long-awaited chance at gaining especially in the opening modern se­
the upperhand. quences that supposedly provide a 
Ian Charleson provides Eric Lid­framework for the film. The parallel
Movies 

dell with a spiritual depth that development between Liddell and powers his every move and word. Abrahams is also perplexing to
Chariots is certainly an excellent Charleson ressurects the values ofa anyone who is unfamiliar with thedebut, I left the theater with the day gone by with an overwhelming story. But the main reason that thesethought ofhaving just seen a good intensity that binds the audience to relatively minor flaws come acrossfilm and the feeling that I just didn't his passion. as so annoying is that a great deal ofget enough. This review shouldn't Colin Weiland's exquisitely the film is so much better. The run­come across as panning the movie; I British screenplay provides some ning sequences are breathtakinglylike it and recommend it. My major terrific dialogue from the tea-time beautiful. Tipping his hat to Lenicomplaint with the film howevver is chats at Cambridge to tht: theologi­Riefenstahl, Hudson repeatedly ex-.
that Hudson's good film has come in cal debates on the Highlands. The amines in extreme slow-motion thethe way ofthe excellent film words hone the characterization physical act ofvictory. It is a study
Chariots ofFire could have been. 
with such fine detail that the two that somehow puts us in the run­The plotline concerns two British 
runners cannot help but beccome ner's head and allows us to examine
Olympic runners, Eric Liddell (Ian anything short ofreal. As we are told the subtle details ivolved in winning. 
Charleson) for whom winning 
at the head of the film, this is a true In the end, Chariots ofFire is a means a victory for God, and Harold story. quietly elegant t1lm that dissects theAbrahams (Ben Cross) who uses his Authenticity is an important part competitive mind. It is an excellenttalents as both a sword and shield ofChariots ofFire. Cinematog­debut by a director from whom weagainst anti-semitism. A true stroy, rapher David Watkin and Art Direc­can expect even greater things in
Chariots ofFire takes the audience 
tor Roger Hall should be lauded for the future.
from the protagonists' early local 
victories to the 1924 Olympics in a 
study ofcompetition, determina­
tion, and the ultimate meaning oftri­
umph. Liddell, a Christian 
missionary, throws a twist into his 
own road to victory when he refuses 
to run in a qualification heat being 
held on the Sabbath. The film 
becomes a study in mercurial 
motivation as Hudson focuses into 
the mind rather than the muscle, 
that is behind victory. 
The strength of the movie comes 
from the characterization and 
counter-point achieved with the 
contrasting featured runners. Both 
roles are played by new-comers to 
the screen who have been weaned 
on the legitimate theater. Ben Cross 
displays to dynamic energy that one 
imagi"!iv~e real ¢hrabaIlls %!~. 
t 
•....................................•.......•........................•........ 
~ 

The Observer Features Section 
Friday, February 12, 1982 -page 11 
Hearts and flowers 
I 
am sitting here in the dark. The lights have gone out 
in Stanford and I am typing words by candlelight, 
waiting for power to be restored to this darkened dorm. 
I'm thinking: the lights have gone out, but I'm not totally 
in the dark, writing about love on St. Valentine's Day. At 
my age, I know a great deal about love. I know nothing 
ahout sex, and I've only been an observer of marriages, 
though I've blessed quite a few, but, by God, I know 
quitc: a bit about love; mostly cliches, ofcourse; being 
clichl·s doc:sn't mc:an that they're not truc:, but only that 
you've heard them bcforc:. By the light oftwo flickering 
candles, I want to write about love for St. Valentine's 
Day. 
Awoman, speakingofherselfand her husband, said to me: "We were starved for love," meaning that after undt:rgoing sodal ostracism, they had been received in­to a communitv that treated them with graciousness. I thought ofthl· pictures offamished children holding out 
rilT howb. hq~ging to he fed. People. when you watch them on the ~uhways, sometimes have looks ofhunger, as though they had waited li>r someone to take care of thnn who never caml·. I've put my arms around an old pl·rson in church. I get the fcehng it's heen a long time since till' person was hugged. An old man or old lady, ;~fraid of ;~ffcction because of what it might cost them, kels comli>rtnl by a hug from a priest. 
l.ovt· is one of the essential needs. Ifyou don't have lovt·, you always feel alone, and one day seems as dull as another. You nl-cd love to survive with dignity. Tht:re is no ~uhstitute for love. any more than there's a suhstitute li>r the air you breathe. You can pretend it is an ex­pcrknn· you can take or leave alone; but without love. you hen>1ne pathetic, like a h;~lf-starvcd child. Sooner or later. you arc going to FEEL pathetic, as unwanted as an old sofa that nohody ha~ got room li>r. 
I am still in Stanford, and thl· lights are out, hut the 
brightness of thl' moon looks in thl· window. At eye 
lcvd on a radio on my desk, two candles burn. Across 
the quad, asidewalk lamp casts brightness on a patch of 
snow. Yct my lingers on the typewriter keys arc mostly 
in darkness. In a little while. I will put out the candles, 
and gropl· toward the outsidl· brightness. Something in 
u~ needs a light. just as something in us needs love, if we 
want to feel alive. 
I am reasonably sure that we should never hl· ashamed that somebody loves us. Dith:rent loves need to he handled in ditfcrcnt way~. that's all. Love may make us an offer that we cannot ;~cccpt, but at least we can n:spcct what is otfcrcd. Wt: mustn't get hurt hy it, if we l'Oin help it; and Wl' mustn't rt:pay love with pain, if pain can bt: avoided. 
Yl·t, in hont:sty,lovc is an emotion I can't always deal 
with. ~ome love is suffocating; it arrives unexpectedly, 
and hang~ on too long. It is too uncritical, based on un­
reality, and it doesn't seem vt·ry healthy. It will end in 
hitternl·ss when some awful truth of unworthiness is 
linally learned. Yet, when it comt:s to essential loves, I 
don't hdkvc lol· is blind. By essential love, I'm not 
talking about God's love or our family's love, though 
tht•y arl' essential enough. Ancsst:ntiallovc is a one-on­
one rdationship that conlirms us in our identity and 
reality. An csst·ntiallovc is nl·ver blind; it doesn't St:t: 
ll·ss in us. and it prohablly sees more. At its vt:ry best it 
has thi~ lovdy insight which notices qualities in me 
which might ordinarily make me scl·m Iovahle only to 
the t:yt:s ofGod. This is what makes essential love so 
supportive ofexistence. 
Ayoung man caml· to talk to me about his lift:. lie had 

Beatlemaniaplays March 24 
T
ill' Broadway smash hit "lkatkmania" is coming to South Bend in .\larch, and according to its reviews, has proven itsdfas one of the "most ambitious theatrical audio·visual produc­tion~ to date". 
Molly ttoland 
The titk "lkatlemania" is misleading. \1ost people as~ume it is a movie prodUlTd for hard-core Beatie fans. Tlw produt·tion is a live stagl· show, thcatt:r, and rock opaa all in one. Although thl· star~ on stage arc tht· farnl·d "lkatle impersonators," and the music score is totallv lkatles, the ~how concentrates more on the so­cial a;ul political unrest of the I<J60's both in th~ U.S. and the world. 
While thl· musil'ian~ will pl·rform songs such as "lkvolution." "I kiter Skdter," "Lucy in the Sky with Diamond~." and otha~. futuristic audio/visualequip­mnll willlughlight tht:m. The popular song "I leyJudt•" b accompanied by slidl'S and lllmlilOtage ~howing ~cl·nc~ from one ofcountry's moM dramatic summer~; the assas~inations of \tartin l.uthl·r Kingjr. and Robert Kennedy, the Democratic and lkpuhlican politicall'onvcntions, increased ac­tivity in Viet :-.lam, the numcrou~ ghetto riots, tht: rise of the Ku Klux Klan, and student unrest are all brought 
)ack to lilt:. 

Rev. Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
·-· .. u~ • . • 
thought a great deal about love. All of us need to be loved, he reasoned; none of us needs to be pampt:red. 
Pampering was what he got more often than not. 
He felt that he was very good looking, and he worked hard to bt: regarded as witty, wise, urbane, and popular. He made an effort to read many hooks, and rcmt:mbcr them all, so that pt:ople would admire his mind. At din­nt:rs where the conversations glittered more brightly than the silver and crystal in the candlelight. he com­peted to appear as the leading savant. He encouraged his friends to ask his advice when they stocked their <.cl­lars with wine, or wht:n they w~:rc making their choices ofwhich Fifth to buy: Beethoven's, or Sihelius's, or Shos­
takovich's. At night. after he had evenings on which he had been admired, he would go to sleep with a smile on his face. "People adore me," he would think. It seemed, he said, like a silly temptation to wonder, in thl· midst of tributes and high praise, whether he was genuinely loved. 
Ik had his feet on the ground. He knew he needed to be loved. "lean handle being adored," he said, "as long as I don't take adoration personally, like some con­cdted athlete in st:arch ofadvantages." His problem, he said, was that he never allowed the world to set: behind the mask he wore in public. llndt:r the wit and poetic flair, under the veneer ofcxpcnsivt: education and sdf­cultivation, was a scnsitivt: soul who slept with a night light. he could never tdl anyone he was so insccurt:. 
"Cupid is a clcar-eyt:d boy," I said. "He hdps those who love to be clcar-cyt:d too, hut he also teaches tht:m reticence. Lovers sec a great deal more than they ever mention. They probably guess at the candles we kt:t:p burningat our bedsides, and love us for the fragility that needs a light. They leave us, in their wisdom, with our masks intact. whether they hclicve them or not. They love us for reasons that may be the same, or different from the reasons we love oursdves. they never tell us more about ourselves than we bccd to know." 
Love is full ofsurprises, like champagne on an empty stomach that plays tricks on your head. Someone very dear is at home with our limitations, hugging us with warmth like familiar sweater. We wait ti>r such love all our lives; when it finally comes, we hang onto it as our only raft in an empty sea. It is not limited to one, and nobody, like the church or state, is counting tht: num­bt:r. That is why on St. Valentine's Day, we can make such a long list of names. The list ofcsscntiallovt:s is very brief, and we keep it in our hearts. 
Some valentines that come arc like a cry for help. Thcu arc fancy and expensive. and thl'Y seem to represent a desperately lonely person who is taking a chance. They remind you of posters showing the hungry children asking lilr ti>Od. 
I blow out thl· candles, leaving me in the Stanford darkness. If I wait long enough the lights will come on again, but I've had as much light as I needed to write this column. I will look at it and think about it again in the morning. Things always sct:m very hopeful in the sun· light. I wonder if somnmc will dance with me at the \1anli Gra~ Dance-athon on Saturday night? 
--------·--~·---~ -~----· 

Tribune columnist fail 
T
hc:Cbicago Tribune hasn't done well with its columnists thl·last tcw months, and th1s has chet:rcd me up considerably. 
:\lothing in life: is as satisfying as seeing Bill Granger's picture ap· pear above a column that seems to have bcl·n taken verbatum from the wall~ ofa :\lew York subway. 
Ifyou read the newspaper at all. you han· to hl· heartt:nl·d to see a few journalistic boors and incompt·tnll~ show their true colors. I refer to the average Tribune writer of U>urst·; and as far as I can tdl, the editors arc no morl· or kss st:nsiblc than tht: next guy. 
But Trib journalists. whatevn else they learn in their )'l'ars of newspaper experience, nl·vcr quite grasp the obscure COIK'l'pt of responsible writing or the dift(:rence bctwct·n educated opinion and ".Vati()lltl/ Enquirer" sensationalism. 
\\'hen they writt: they resort to "Little Johnny down the street" stories that scrvt: no purpose other than to get &-lt4Hitlt'I!M~ their columns associated with 
''sensitive" and "concerned" 

Paul Kosidowski 
at suburban hair-shirted cock­tail partie~. Or they lind a suh­Second Thoughts jcct that enables them to usc the most phrases from their 
Pretentious Ot!erstatement & .1/etapbor notl·book. 
The general thuglikc behavior a Tribune reporter learn~ stays with him through life and reacht:s full !loweringas a Tribune Colum­nist. 
A few years ago, a great dcbatt: raged in Tribune circles over the vow of the editorial board to cmphasiZl' quality writing and timdy journalism. This seemingly noncontroversial stance on the part of the publishers provoked all sorts ofreaders to foam at the mouth and uttt:r curses. They wt:re certain it was a code word: l'Xcdkncc in journalism meant de-emphasizing the funnies-maybl· even cutting down to a ~ingk page. This mt:ant no Barney Google or Dalla~. They might nt:vn havt: seen Archie's Vnonica in a bikini again! 
All this might sound to some like sour grapl·s. Did the Tribune refuse to print my letter to the editor? Did I onct: haVl' drl·ams of growing up to be just like Jack .\1abky? 
:\lone of it. The only time lever came dose to bdng a Tribune employee was when I walked past till' building on my way to SlT if the Chkago River was really grn·n. Ialmost stumbled ovt-r a scragg­ly man drinking from a papa bag. ( Ohviously an editor on lunch break). I safely escaped the arl·a that dav without soml·ont· com· plaining to me about female cxploitatio1; in horror films or bdng of­fert·d soml· hot tickl·ts to tomormw'~Z/.VGO /l/.VGO. 
:-.lor am I anti-newspaper. I often read a paper that has almost a~ many funnies as the Tribune. Tbe Hi/u·,wkeejournal. It al~o ha~ a few columnists that occasionally li>rward Sllllll'thing lc~s than print· worthy. 
"That's it'" Kosidowski read~ thcjoumal. that's why he hate~ the Tribune. 
lncorrccto. First. there arc all sorts ofthing~ Idon't hatt· about the "World's Greatest :'llcwspapn... Richard Christiansen b a lilll· nitic. I don't hate the ad llesign~ which arc very classy, and I usually SJKnd a few hour~ on the .\lovic Trivia ()uiz l'Very year. I don'tevcn hate Ernie Banb who used to play on a ha~dJall team that i~ now owned by the TriiJ. 
I've only rl·ad tht· Trilnme a tl'\\ tinws but that is enough to con­vince me that all of the columnists are communist~ and pagan idol worshipper~. 
TrifJune columnist~\\ l'fl' onn· ~en~ibk JWople who usnl thdr \\Tiling to comml·nt on bsue~ that needl·d the publk'~ con~klera­tion. Pretty ~oon the writlT~ diM"< >\Trnl that thdr reader~\\ lTl' talking lc~~ about the ~UhJel'l!> and nwn· about the author~ -the more controversial till' column. thl· morl· tln·ting the laml· (or iPtamv) the author~ ~t:emnl to l'n)oy. And they really enjo~ nl 11 • 
This is when the columnist's photo began appl·aring with the byline. Tht· author's cxprt·ssion alway~ seems to ~ay. "after you n·ad thi~ you'll'' ant to go livt· in a shack in tht· Arnk wa~tdand. Thing~ around here are that bad.'' 
So it is pkasing to me -and a few otlll'rs. I ~uspect -that thesl· face~ and the words they seem to UtllT arc showing up lc~~ on bulletin or dart boards these days. Not hcctUSl' I wi~h thl· Trilmne or any of its journalists ill. 
But because soml· peopk seem to he getting the silence thl'Y deserve. 
......,...... 

_... 
The Observer wtll accept classifieds Mon­
r 
day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next tssue must be received by 3 p.m. the busmess day pnor to insertion. All classifieds must be prepatd, 
-page 12 either in person or through the ma;l. 
ClassifiedsFriday, February 12, 1982 
still-miSSing VUARNETS have all been 1n I t:rlE:<>AAI 41-44b9 Deare•t Kat 1y 1n l40, W1th ptzza. tee cream and pancake m1x. L3: WELCOME BACKIll vain_ However. I'm not one to get off the ... . . . . . . . . . -..' .. .. . . . . . . . 1 told yo 1 I'd make up for Monday Tak1ng off hke hos1er faces, Love.
NOTICES bus" eas1ly, to be sure. Poss1bly my I would g1ve an ARM AND A LEG for mght he e s your very own Observer ToG R., Chicago and other places. Bruceyreward offers have not been taken DEPAUL GA.'S Call Alex at 6931. personal! The things we do are without flaw. senously. If you have any 1nformat1on W1th Love From In tact they should be aga1nst the law. H1 Pammy. Some thmgs never change. regarding the whereabouts of these Hope th1s doesn't come too late, 
Your Secret Sweetheart OVERSEAS JOBS--Summer/year 
elusive sunglasses, do your self a favor To tell you that Ne th1nk you're GREAT!! 
To my favorite Darby's addict. Meet meround. Europe, S. Amer., Australia, As1a. 

and get in touch With Ken Kesey at 283-PERSONALS B1ff. I LOVE YOU !II!! Superwoman Cuz be1ng w1th you we get our kicks. with tea and girl scout ccookles andAll fields. $500-$1200 monthly. Sightsee­
3210. HE TAKES HIS 'NAYS SERIOUS­You make us proud to be McCh1cks !(& 1) lets discuss moral philosophy togeth­ing. Free info. Wnte IJC, Box 52-IN4, 
LY. To all thos ' 1nv1ted to the pre-party at UUUGGGHHHIH er. Be My Valentine. But don't laugh at
Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. P.S.-11 you see any marshmallow sport1ng . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . . . .... . . . . ' . . . . ... . . . . . . . APA ~TMENT". ready me.
THE get for a them, apprehend the character Im­WINDSURFER There over 300 dealers WILD 11m-..... No one there will be Hey Cindy, Welcome to N.D. I sure hopelocal
Support your neighborhood J. V. mediately and contact me. Reward still and 50 cert1fled International Windsurfer ma1ntain1nlllll Happy Valentmes Day that you find it to your pleasure!!! we·re 10
hockey player. Practice 7:15

at a.m. Sa1hng Schools· 1n North America. One
negotiable. 

Guys!!I gomgto have one heck of a ttme, so put on Ugliest Wench on Campus 
every morning. All players should attend. • soon be here Notre and get ready
to appeaanng at your danc1ng shoes to Ugliest Wench on CampusDame. Stay tuned .. 
LYNN oEI: HAPPv viii.I:NrtNI:s 6Av boogie! UGLIEST WENCH ON CAMPUSJELLY ROLL LIVES, SATURDAY, 
AND ONE YEAR TOO. FROM YOURS Love lis.
NAZZ,9PM. C~lu;;,b~~--~;~ld··~~i·· ha~~-di~~~~~r~cl 
ONLY-LO' 'E ALWAYS WJTPE,JR. Scowtt for UHOC 
FOR RENT 

Amenca had he not followed a member of I want to put my arms around you DID YOU CALL THE AIRLINES FOR THE LOW LIFE (who happened to be H iRE WE GO AGAIN! and hold you for all time ALL NIGHT JANICE MAKES AYOUR SPRING BREAK RESERVA­boardsailing 1n that direction). 
1lme To Relive Your I'm so in love w1th you Annte BLOWOUT! ITS AT 820 NO APTS 40TIONS? PICK UP YOUR TICKET AT 1ST 
Male ·will' share 3 bedrm. home tn nice Rock 'n' Roll Past You·re my everlasting valentine SAT NITE· SUN MORN. WELCOMESOURCE TRAVEL. SAINT MARY'S-­
J~uZI>iA.No AT THE 111;uz: sA.TuR~
neighborhood t 50 per month. ph. 289-on n E TOP 20 TIME TUNNEL Love, Jim LISA, MAN,5606 N D--7080 
DAY9PM.
t 908 or 272-41 09 with Tim Neely 
Sun< ay at 6 on WSND AM 64 TOMMY! to my Bananahead:Dear My Billy Pfeiffer-----Happy 3rd BILL EVANS LIVES AT THE NAZZ.
Available for next school year and Th1s week February 13, 1977 -Songs You are my light and my hfe... Happy Valentme s Day!
Valentine's Day to Us I ~---It has been the SATURDAY91'M

summer--two five bedroom houses. 234-by the J< cksons, the Bee Gees. the Love, Roses are redgreatest years of my hie, and I am so hap­
py that we will share more of toy, happi­

2626. Eagles, St tvie Wonder, etc. Suzy VIolets are blue 
TOMMY FLANAGAN UVES. AT THE ness and even unhappmess rest of our 
You're a wonderful fnend 

NAZZ. 9PM SATURDAY. lives. I love you very much and 
KARENK. You've got great knees tool 
Dear RobErt Lloyd Snyder. Roses are red 12 hours tomorrow won't be enough-~'ARIGATO' for every happiness & care 
HOAGY.cARMicHAELLIIIEs·A.-r:r.:.e 
Happy Bu hday! For your birthday you They don't grow on a vine I love you gobs and gobs!! 
you have g1ven to me. AISHITEIMAS, My 

NAZZ. SATURDAY, 9PM. Only One--Your Little Fl 
have a ch< 1ce of the follow1ng: Can you guess who's the author --your puzzle piece 
WANTED 

A. VIC tre< Jment Of this Valentine rhyme? THE FINEST IN SOLO JAZZ PIANO: 
BHCML BE MY VALENTINE Dexter·
Want to learn French? French tutor 

FROM MOSE ALLISON TO DENNY available, all levels. Very reasonable. Call 
C. 58... 59' Will you be m1ne?
ZEITLIN. PAUL KOSIDOWSKI PLAYS 
D. All of th 'above DearJB. Ferdmand
287-0233. Need ride to Houston Texas, for spnng THE FINEST. SATURDAY 9 PM. 
LOVE, Ba bara Here IS a valentines greeting I break. If you are headed 1n that d~rection The fun IS JUSt beginning! Mane.
NEED A GOOD HAIRCUT? CALL please call T1mo at 1 782. t<iii1'ti':iAFi.iiii1T'is''i;i:ivii.ANo·w-iii:i: 
JOAN, Remember, pizza sandwiches, bridge, Happy 21st Birthday. You've spent 7MJCHOLE AT 7951 $4 GUYS AND $6 AND PERFORMING IN SOUTH BEND. 
GIRLS WANTED: PIANO AF· BE MY LIBRARY VALENTINE. THIS and formals are not everyth1ngl months 1n limbo but now you·re finally
JAZZ THE NAZZ, SATURDAY, 9 PM. 

MEANS ·HE RELATIONSHIP IS BIN­It m1ght be time for frozen roses! over the hump. Does this mean that you'll FICIONADOS. THE NAZZ, SATURDAY, 
DING. Love Always, buy beer for us I'll ·uns now? All you have THE SOCIETY FOR CREATIVE 9PM. 
JAK 

ENIGMA MP to do 1s get Dad to give you some newANACHRONISM IS COMING TO Happy Valentines Day wheels! I 
CAMPUSSOONIII TYPING 28 years as a secretary. Excel­Andrea 
COCHABIMBA Happy V Day to you Bruce tor tett1ng me Mauralent typist--ret~red. $1.00 per page. Call LIFE t:; CERTAINLY MORE THAN put in some words, to Ryan even tho he P.S. Happy Valentine's Day to you andLooking for a truly portable, yet powerful, Phyllis 259-2501. 
THE WSND BIRTHDAY BONANZA COFFEE BREAKS AND MIDNIGHT forgot, to Tom even tho you love to tiCkle J1mM.
personal computer? See THE OS­BEGINS!!! 

SWIMS 3UT IT DOESN'T HAVE TO me, to BPer, to Monk for whatever, toBORNE 1, 64K, dual 1OOK disk dnves, WANTED: A Valentine w1sh from a New Listen to AM 64's SECRET SCRAMBLE 
BE. SCR oAM AT THE F-IRST SIGN OF D-but Paul­complete sohware package. $1795. Jersey g~rl. SONG--identify the artists and titles, and Dave not Mondays-,to Ann and Julie, 
CARING. missed you tues., and to everyone else Happy Valentines Day.
FOURWAY COMPUTER PRODUCTS A Southerner named Tom YOU could win $100 1n your choice of al­

THE (Synonym for 111eg1t1mate) who may or may not deserve tt. Your Dm1ng Hall Admirers, (Across from North Village Mall). 277­bums! 
Manlyn Jeremy and Steve 
7720 RIDERS NEEDED TO MARDI GRAS IN 
Am by. 

NEW ORLEANS. Call Harpo 8928. wsr:.iO:.A.M 64::~~~~b;~~~~9 35 years at Sw1ng1ng Nllh you is the greatest because AMST 442 number 15, Happy VDay to The Observer wenches:Need drive for 1979 p1okup (automatic) to serving the Notre Dame commun1ty w1th your teo hnique is so good. you re Sooner or later the 1ce Will melt and you Momca. Maura, Mary, Melinda, MAC.
Stamford, CT area. W1ll pay $50 plus gas. Need a nde to Houston. Spnng Break. the best 1n news, sports and rock mus1c. AWESOftE. won't have to worry about slipping on the Suzanne. Diane. Valene; Cathy. Kelli and 
If interested, call Mrs. Walters. 259-8015. Call1782, ask for T1m. 


love Mon.< way to the bus shelter any more. May all Kelly and Rachel and Cheryl and.
KOB-S1~~e you·ve been m1ne all thiS 
your dtrectlons be, er. tecnmcal. .. and Ort1
THE BLACK FILM FESTIVAL CON­Need 2 G.A. Tickets for N.C. State! I Call t1me. does that mean you II be my ONLY TINUESwlth Ann 8067 
HAPPY VALENTINES DAY MO-SKI Happy Valentine's Day. Sorry g~rls, the hst would have gone on 
Valentme?!! IL Y. Mansa. Mart1n L. K1ng: The Man and the March 
YOU SIL _y DIP! I AMST 442 number 13 forever. Jhad to stop 1t somewhere. The System (Feb. 16) AUSTIN, TEXAS area IS where I need a 
It's Nation Time (and) I Have a Dream Kns, Look1ng 1>r a truly portable. yet powerful Happy Valentlne·s Day, Slowhands"(?)l
nde to for break most willing to share ex· Thanks tor be1ng there when I needed 
personal :ompuler? See The Osborne 1, I mean 11, REALLY! To aU my favontes:(Feb 23) penses & drivmg. Call t 791. you. You re a fantastiC fnend and a won­64K, dufl 1OOK d1sk dnves, plus $1400 Love ya·, Mary Kathenne" Love always. 
--Every Tues. 1n Feb. at 8:00p.m. 

derful fnend. You're also k1nd of cute. 
worth of >ohware, all tor $1795. FOUR­The SystemL1ttle Theatre (Latortune-1 st floor) I NEED A RIDE TO MIAMI OR FT Love WAY CC MPUTER PRODUCTS (Across Rodriquez,LAUDERDALE, FLA FOR SPRING from Nor h Village Mall). 277-7720. You are scum and should be casterated. Kathy.
PERSONAL AND PROFESSIONAL BREAK CALL MIKE 3242 Thanks for your ass1stence" yesterday You're spec1al BUSINESS COMPUTER DEMONSTRA­JANET: 

Booper 8 S-S, morn1ng, grease-ball. BruceTION. FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 12. 10:00 Valentmes are red. 
I don t g· •I mad. I get even. ENJOY ! PartyA.M. TO 2:00 PM. ROOM 249 We know that"s true; S-S. . 'I hen you least expecllt!. A
O'SHAUGHNESSY. Fourway Computer Tom & Ellie,
Thus, it's a great t1me, Dear Beth, 
Products. 277-7720 · It's your 4th k1d who works hard and
FOR·SALE 

To say: I LOVE YOU. 
You are VERY interestmg. I hope to JERRY 
does Try. C 1rn-doers Anonymous and 
learn alot mo,e about you now that you But C's her exam and does not know 
4N, D.H Scope Soc1ety have more ttme. Happy Valentlne·s Day. DeMar. 
Why. SURPLUS JEEPS, CARS AND TRUCKS Happy Valentine's Day 
Love,Let's call a truce on V-day--e1ther that or So although 1t w1ll be the only C to be 
AVAILABLE. Many sell for under $200 from The Photographer 
Had. Ca\1312-742-1143. Ext. 7316 formforma­a devoted member 
LOST/FOUND 

the UN w1ll be forced to mtervene! 
I want you to remember at M1d-Terms­tlon on how to purchase. 
Sandy, this Ad! 

DEAR HONEY-CHAN,ALL OF MY LOVE Tom' favonte Pitcher, Excuse me. butt th1nk I'm gomg to pass 
TO YOU! HAPPY LOVERS' DAY lt"s 1n case the forewarned depression LOST: GOLD & PEARL FLOWER USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought. I gs ;e you a sm1le, out 
floods over your Face, CHARM FROM A NECKLACE. Lost be­sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. anc. you gave me the world. 
Max DearE M. 
As you rece1ve my grades on the way tween Farley and the Law School. If Tues-Sunday, 12-6 1027 E. Wayne (One Luv. Anne toAisace.
P.S. Happy Valentines. W1ll You Be Mme? 
found, please call Phylhs--6844. block south of Eddy-Jefferson Intersec­

So remember on thiS February day, All REWARD. tion.) Dave. MEFT.W. 
the love that was sent,Thanks or all the great llmesl Happy THUMP 

Ken, From your Hard-Working kid -Whose LOST 1PR XL DARK BLUE SKI LOFT.Good Condltiori.ldeal 1n Valentine's Day. 
THUMP 

Be my valentine ! 1nhentance was SpentJ GLOVES IN EG. AUD. MONDAY NIGHT Keen/Stan. ONLY $95,Call272-2578 Love, Julie THUMP 
Love. Melinda
All my love. C.W.H. MikePLEASE CALL SEAN 1416 
PS. HVD

FOR SALE: Portable AM/FM STEREO JOJO RICh 
Happy Day, Laura Leal LOST: Ti-55 calculator, e1ther 1n 124 Cus­RADIO CASSETTE RECORDER. In­Toml Tamil
Booper & S-S, Roses are fed. hmg audttorium or 117 Haggar audttortum cludes song fmder and repeat functions. I Bnan John 
Nancy, I LOVE YOU!! Be my little snow­
I don't get mad, I get even. ENJOY ! the leaves are green. 
S-S. . When you least expect it!. A. you re the pren1est g1rl
on Feb. 5. If found please contact Dan at NEED THE MONE.Y! call1407 (Joe). ...my b1g brothers at Flanner ... ball. And don't make me m1ss you too of­
3378. Happy Valentme s Day! ten, no matter how mce 11 m1ght feel at the l"ve ever seen. 
Save money on used books at PAN­Love, JOJO s little SISter ttme. And remember, take care of Kmcky.
Laura. (Who IS my little lamb!), Happiest I haven t travelled much 
all my LOVE. your loveelLOST: Ladies gold watch, Fnday attar­DORAS 30 percent off the list pnce. For a 

of Valentlne·s Days to the sweet1st of all and some say l·ve seen too few. 
noon. lnscnpt1on on back of watch. If hmrted t1me we are hav1ng a 1982 calen­Rich, M1ke K.. M1ke. Jeff and B1ll,
Valentines! Love ya lots! Joe. but I've seen enough to say
Na1ve 6739. 3-6 pm used books are 50 percent off and way 1nto our hearts... but our KICKS are outs,secunty guards, pme trees. Bob 
found, please contact DENISE at 283-dar sale--50 percent off!! Th1s Fnday from Hypothetically, · you danced your .Here's to: Pumpk1n blow­that I love you. 
CONNECTICUT CLUB Happy Hour. Fn. Gregory
Marley, cement blocks. laps 1n the Nazz.
new books are 20 percent off. Open 1 t-6 still higher. 
-Feb. 12-Alumni Hall Party Room 
LOST: Cas10 FX-8000 calculator some­weekdays and 10-5 weekends. PAN­HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY! nose warmers. salt. and burntng sensa­TODAY IS MATT GOLDMANN'S 19TH 
where in Eg. Aud or computer building or DORAS BOOKS. 937 South Bend LOVE AND KISSES. ttons.. Stay tuned for more, 1f tt su1ts you.. 
DON (IOWA PARTY ANIMALj, BIRTHDAY ALL YOU FIESTY WOMEN 
ice rink. I need ·it for my tests! I II found, Avenue. 233-2342. THE LITTLE LIBRARY LOVERS Babs IS lucky.. 
WELCOME TO THE CONVENT OF NOTRE DAME AND ST MARY'S please call Dom1n1c at X 1360 
S1gned. Wa1tmg m vam but enJOYing every
LOVE STOP BY 315 FLANNER AND WISH 
dear Patncta, non-dull moment... Stella P. S. Happy V. D. 
JUDY & LISA THIS CAMPUS PLAYBOY A HAPPY LOST: last thursday. brown tinted, gold 1love you. 
BIRTHDAY. MATT WILL ACCEPT ANY­lramed eye glasses. If lound please call bob
To B. B. & B.B THING FROM SEXUAL FAVORS TO · x7946 
CHERYLK. 

Love you to the end of the numberslll! TRAVELERS' CHECKS. HAVE A GOOD
TICKETS 

VALENTINES WELLdear patnc1a. 
From your Huggy Bunny , HAPPY DAY! ONE MATT-----­
HAVE TO GO OUT FOR SOME REAL
FOUND: one hal, very mce, at the Holy 1 love you. 
MARSH. PEACH. AND THE PHANTOM. Cross he1nous hat and 11e party on Satur­bob 
SEAFOOD SOMETIME(REALlY)Lost: One compassionate. understand­
day mght Call31 76to IDENTIFY. ps. th1s IS mcase you did not believe the LOVE, GREGORY 
WANTED: 2 TO 4 GA TICKETS FOR OE Ing. and 1ov1ng boyfnend answenng to the TERESA. TERESA,TERESA. 
f1rstone.

PAUL GAME. CALL KAREN, 284-5127. name of Ch1p. W1ll you come home? IM GOING TO WISH YOU A HAPPY 
LAURA B. . Owner thiS t1me prom1ses not to abuse VALENTINES DAY. BUT I DOUBT
Found: Lad1es gold watch approx. 2 

weeks ago 1n the ACC Locker room. Call Where does Hart Green get h1s first row I KNOW THAT. YOU REALLY HAVE A 
I NEED 2 DE PAUL GAS. CALL DAVE you. YOUU EVEN GOING TO SEE IT OR 
Jamce at 1 327 to claim basketball ticket? It's funny.. I thought BUSY SCHEDULE. BUT I'D LIKE TO
AT 3056. Love. MAYBE EVEN CARE) BUT ANYWAY,
sophomores couldn t get such good GET TOGETHER SOMETIME 
The Sex-starved wench. HAPPY VALENTINES DAY TO THE 
Lost: Blue enamel cloisonne bracelet seats. Oh well. I guess 11 all depends on HAPPY V-DAY WITH LOVE, GREGORY 
NEED ONE G.A TICKET FOR NORTH PERSON WHO I WANT TO SEE AS 1Weds. morn1ng 1n the Lib. Aud. /Lobby who you know. 
CAROLINA STATE. CALL MIKE 1812 MMB MUCH AS I POSSIBLY CAN. 
MARYKarea Deep sentimental value. If found. 

WE ALL KNOW WHAT ST LOVE. 
please call Kath1 at 1327 Notre Dame women s basketball team I'M SORRY THAT IVE NOT BEEN
WANT to .BUY: 4 GA NORTH CAROLINA VALETINE'S DAY IN CHICAGO IN­JOHN
entertains Cmcmnattl tomorrow at 4 p.m. HONEST AS I WOULD HAVE LIKED TO 
STATE IIX X8227 VOLVES I SUGGEST SOMETHING A
LOST: IN 109 O'SHAG. BLUE BOOK­at the ACC Come and see Mary D s HAVE BEEN WITH YOU. BUT I'VE
LITTLE LESS BLOODY 
SACK WITH ALL MY NOTES & BOOKS team. which has the best defense 1n the WORKED THRU A LOT. SO I'LL AC­
Need TWO DePaul GA T1ckets Please MJM
PLEASE WHOEVER PICKED IT UP, NCAA. CEPT YOU FOR WHATEVER YOU SAY Deb R'aehl. 
Call TIM at t 377 

GET IN TOUCH WITH STEVE WITHOUT PRESSURE. Some dre n1ce. others cute. but·
MORRISON SCHWARTZER IS COM­
BURKART TEL. 3121 Susanne. These last few weeks w1th you HAPPY V-OAY WITH A FRIENDLY remember--you are cool..
LOITERY TODAY FOR THE MOR­ING 

have been the greatest Hope you II al­LOVE, GREGORY Mr. LaFortune RISON SCHWARTZER CONCERT. 
LOST: BROWN TWEED WOOL SCARF ways be my valentine. Love M1ke
BRING 10 AND PROOF OF BLOOD­GRINGO MY LOVE. You are everything
at NO-MAINE game _Jan. 27 m sec11Dn YOU SUAVE THING. YOU-May room 41 hve as one of the
TEST I ve always wanted 1n a MAN Keep up the on 
108 of the bleachers.. If found please call John, Happy Valentines Day! WORST rooms on campus! (How come 1t
goodworl<
Ross at 1 898. Happy Valentines Day! I m look1ng for­Love. Maureen got picked second 1n the dorm last year?) 
I NEED TWO TICKETS FOR THE Love, Stev1e ward to bemg shot by Cupid's powerfulDEPAUL GAME!!! WILL PAY BIG 
LOST IN 1090'SHAGON 2/10. A BLUE arrow agatn, as always! Dear Elizabeth. TO THE SHEEP. BE DISCRETE! Man·
BUCKS. CALL MATT AT 232-2578. HEY MATT--BEAT ME. CHEAT ME.
BOOKBAG WITH ALL MY NOTES AND Love. With an InVItation hke that, how can I day morn1ngs may be tolerable but
DELETE ME. MISTREAT ME. WHIP ME. 
BOOKSIll!! PLEASE, IF YOU PICKED IT s refuse? One thmg though. I'm warned Thursdays aren I P.S. put some lanolin
WANTED. 4 GA tickets to the DePaul ETC. BUT BE MY VALENTINE OK?
UP, CONTACT STEVE BURKART about my date-does she smoke? See on those rug burns! And enough of thiS 
game... Call Sandy at 272-4683 LOVE AND KISSES FROM THE SUB­
TELEPHONE 3121 ASAP. THANKS. MEGAN. you Saturday. sheep·· crud!! --the classless soc1ety 
MISSIVE ONE Help 1nternat1onal relat1ons Hosers from 
VALENTINE'S DAY IS SUNDAY. SEE Love. Ch"stopher. FOUND-one key on key cham outs1de YOU IN CHICAGO!!! P S. Another h1nt for the mystery date­Momca. but I wont do th1ngs like that!
the G.N.W need four· tickets for DePaul HAPPY VALENTINES DAY TO THE gate 5 ot A.C.C. on Feb. 10th. LOVE. blue eyes. Suzanne
call7936 I;'LAMIKAN LIKE A. 
YOUR PAPER CHASER Lost: Navy blue suit coat. Whoever wore a Mary Koz. You'll never know how great What are the rabbits d01ng '" your
I w1ll g1ve ANYTHING for 1 or 2 GA's to SUMMER PROGRAMS: Ireland, S<:ot·
lblue su1t to the P. w. SYR on Sat. Feb. 6 A Valentine wish tor those AWESOME it is to have you at NO. Happy kitchen? I thought they d be 1n the
DEPAUL. Please call Alex at 6931. land, London and Paris-May 18-June
check to make sure you brought home the BASSES. Valentine's Oay. Yucka-Ducka-Do. bedroom. And watch your language
17 Paris, Germany, Switzerland and
right navy blue suit coat. Call3242 Who knock down sold1ers by the cases. HEARTBREAKER, WANT TO BE MY around those little hoppers 
Will trade Stu Depaul for NC GA Call7515 Rome-June 15-July 14. Courses You all cla1m to sleep 1n the raw. 
INVOLVEMENT? -PAIN ... But So how do you explain what we saw? Only 58 day unt1l Easter. What are you available In history, business and 
economic•. sociology, theatre,
Seriously A thousand years for you wed wa1t, A valentine wish to 439 farley. Will you expecting m your basket? Maybe a rab­
WILL PAY MEGA BUCKS FOR SIX (6) philosophy and Italian. Call Professor
Folks.. Cuz party1ng w1th you must be our fate. all lose it behind the bar with me. bit?
DEPAUL GAS FOR BIOLOGY TEAC­A. R. Black at SMC, 2114-4948 or at 
It seems that my attempts to locate my Feedmg us hke ND chicks.
HER ARRIVING THE 27TH CALL home, 272·3726. 

"-" 

The Observer wtll accept classifteds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m However. classtfteds to appear tn the next tssue must be received by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to tnserliOn. All classtfieds must be prepatd, 
l ~·Friday, February 12, 1982 -page 13 either tn person or through the mail. 
Classift.edsY 
. To Ox (Pelch or Bnan). 

G J. The DEEP-END DearKrlatf: lANINA. · TONYA KERSHNER os ypar SEX INFO· 
What can I tell you · that you don't al­Have a great Valentines Day I LOVE.YOU. . ONCE YOU GO BLACK­SOURCE here 1n South Bend Her hotlone Happy Valent1M's Day from your ready know Thanks so much for the 1CAN'T LIVE WITHOUT YOU YOU NEVER GO BACKII has JUSt been onstalled Call her today 'to 
favonte rah-rahl 
I love you 

Cept the facts of hie. and the Joy of no BESTEST I /2 B-day Party "lay back and raat your weary find out when & where the kinky th1ngs on 
Laura But au the same· the BUZZ of today. Lots of love & K1sses 't will stay right here beside your sexual fantas1es X322t 
Snow I You guys are the greasiest!! mind CHIP. campus are happenong or let her decopher 
HOPE YOU ENJOYED YOUR KOO­Is to w1sh to you a HAPPY Your hllhesl Baboo you... KOOS!I 
Dear Bunny. VALENTINE'S DAY! I swear to you LOST Happy Valentones Dayl 
I have had a lot of Fun Since the year LULU LULU Our time has just begun... " KASSY­Texas Instruments Tl-55 calculator on the Love. began. THE BESTEST SISTER Love, Randall SUCKERII engmeenng audttonum dunng last 
Rabbrl You treat me n1ce and you understand. HAPPY VALENTINE S DAY semesters f1nals My name IS scratched
YOUR FAVORITE LIFEGUARD The days aren·t numbered accord1ng to I LOVES YOU noce9.9999 on on the back. Please return John x8641 
Q. 

Me P.S.S. Bnng your bocycle chaon. remember reusable stamps danctng
SHEILA & JOAN. 
They may have drowned 1n the local Hey Schle, on a car.. cooktes and laundry. ~l
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY, GIRLS!! I Jacuzz11 Happy Valentone's Day to all ol you who Happy Valentines Day to the affec­I m glad you're my vatenlone Remember. fllJl(ed the browntes? broken eggs~01 ' ~ 
HOPE I DON THAVE TO GROUND YOU MICK made moss1ng a year at NO so hard Shan. tionate production staff I have the THIS WEEKEND!! 
no books on St Louos wnh funny eyes massages on the 
Anne, Daane, Jack and Ann You are very pleasure of workmg wtth You make Mon­stage and others backgammon(?) Counselor Scarletl. special · THANK YOU day a day to look forward to. Have a furry Mary and ptzza where ts lhts ptzza place Happy SVD! Not much longer Love. ntce day. KAREN Roses are red anyway?· lost tn Mtshawaka an old 
Love. love. a httle rabbit Vtolets are blue rnovte theatre. who sptU that spnte? Stl­
Sue WHO S YOUR FRIEND? DRINK MUCH? 
Your PIZza Man. Rhetl Please be my Valentine ttng tn a car all mght peppermtnt patltes. 
HAPPY VALENTINES DAY!! Meg-a-0. Julush. Weeb. Reets 
Dear Matt. Because I am 1n LOVE woth you! how many? thousands ptzzas. ptz· Thanks so much lor last Fnday noghl Love. Smooth zas. ptzzas. hey. what s tn thts ,ptzza? I love you Chums? hope th1s one os every bil as ex coling Hap­P S Dod you see Love Boat? OUCHI b1ke ndes quol fuohng 
Sean What should I say to the best of my ELLEN OF 2 SOUTH 
NICE BULGE! Sue But HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY to P S HAVE YOU EVER BEEN TO
py Valentones Dayl You are more fun around! where IS my I D ? spare 
than TO THE WIZARD OF ORION Bet you toothbrushes. knock. knock. knock M thought I wouldn 1 get you Remember Who ts tf? crashtng on a covered
you, to be Flonda Bums' PARIS? 
TO THE MEN OF 10-B FLANNER. I can hardly wa11. for th1s week long Thanks for showing us how to put a date HAPPY VALENTINES DAY MOM AND W1zards don 1 need to smoke when bndge to goodwtll tn a Ftrebnd wum-
TO SMC CLASS 85. little weekend '" our week. and make When we II bathe 1n lhe sun on Ft DAD. PLEASE TAKE CARE OF YOUR­POTTER AT 6:30 PM IN THE SAINT 
they re hot l1ke you They have a magocal pums eattng brae your mtll tree weekends GREAT! SELVES AND MY DROGGIE LOVE steam on theor own. Happy Valentones boke very late mghts and dreamy
Lauderdale s Beach MARYS COLLEGE CLUBHOUSE 
CHERYL Day! eyes love. love. love HAPPY VALENTINE'S And partake 1n the nllelife-and our 
Love, LOVE. SADYRD S.T.
capac1ty we'll Reach! To I he unpossessable Ms Whips. M1ck1 and Karen A thought of the Dome w1ll not enter our PERSONAL, PROFESSIONAL AND When are we gomg to listen to slow 
M RICh.
BUSINESS COMPUTER DEMONSTRA­TION FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 12 10 00 I m head over heels Thank you lor forever understanding 
MindS mus1c agam? 
Jane As we tan 1n the sand and scope out the I he bleedong heart liberal HAPPY VALENTINES DAYII! rne (trytng anyways!) Always know that 
Always. but espec1ally today A M TO 2.00 P M ROOM 249 Jer 0 SHAUGHNESSY. Fourway Computer CAD you are my one true Valent1ne Have a 
F1ndsl P S. Your body may not be a 10. bul otIS a 
So enJOY Feb. I 4th. 1n the realm thalli woll Be. Products. inc 277· 7720. FRANK LaGROTTA ternt1c day! ALL NEW POETS CLUB HAPPY Love. Cec 
For Margaret Adelaide. Lets make thos Merely 4 more weeks un111 we 11 all be You were great Who says good thongs the best Valentone s Day ever Is a trrp to set Free! COME AND DISCUSS. DIVORCE AND HOUR Sal 5.00-gamellme on D1llon pub come 1n small package\s?? Hurry back Chocago on your future? the Spudman Guess the Buzz!! THE CATHOLIC WEDNESDAY. FEB 17 The Goris of N D 
Come and get happy before lhe game LIZZie. Kay. Mart1e. Mary Kay and, last ALL WELCOME but never least. Margaret • 
Kod Thos os a V alent1ne for all of you so'lhdr 
holiday BILLY. Happy Valenllne s Day lo rny forst NOREEN-EILEEN. In the world of numbers. you re Happy Ann1versary. Babe! al least you cant say thai you drdn t get Roses are red. Mart1ans are green. and only Valenllne NEVER DRINK ALONE!! the best number of all Happy V Dav The Bog Guy any But maybe I still can NAN. Happy V-Day Your poem for thiS 
P11tsburgh Police XOX P S Door Become Attack Guess whoYou re the most wonderful I've ever seen Love Ya, Drunk the Racoon YOUR FAVORITE LIFEGUARD 
G 
Kate. Aoleen. Carol and (last but dehnotely not least) Ann HAPPY VALENTINES DAY!!! lrrepressobly. Streak 
Carolyn. 
1711 Love. Cra1g 
M Smole You are loved Happy V-Dayl Ort 
Do Congrats and best w1shes I'm happy lor you Happy V-Day Ort 
uwocuwocuwocuwoc 
Dave "TOY" Marton for UTOCI!I 
Hey MOON WET Happy V-Day, You Guy, You!! 
Dear Shawn, Roses are red Violets are blue Just a qu1ck little note To say I love youl 
Happy Valentine'a Day, Danny While, No 11 
Kat1e, 
Th1ngs were fun whrle they lasted -for about mne days 1n early November. now there's a wall between us. and I can't seem to tea• it <lown. Maybe ,Jhos

·...~ t. 
Valentine's greetong wiU help. Love. TomN. 
Demse. Happy Valentone s Day from a Darby s Place frrend and confodant Who Else But T1m 
Jenny. No. 1 haven't forgotlen you. there 1ust 
~ hasn t been.er:lough t1me to• remember.. And by the way. ~have seen you play Now I woll say Happy Valenllne's DayI 
: .li'om l~o'Ciasses on a Row'" (remember that? That s ~ow we metI) 
to rachel. one of my best fnends sorry 1 haven t been keep•ng 1n as much touch as 1n the past. but 1m too busy my fault 
remember from way back when what you sa1d (may have been about a year ago -remember the poor russ1an doc­tor?) -some day o d hke to cash on ·(applogoes to Jeb) 
• .love. 
• • . IM!rli"le as~_t l."'od (very tong-1omeJ· 
CamaK 
Sorry I got so pushy the other weekend These thongs w111 happen. Happy Valentines Day from one who means 1t 
TN 
To no1ther Stephen nor Trout but Joe-I may be schizophreniC but I don 1 remem­ber puttong on those other personals YES YOU 00' No I don t YOU DO SO! Shut up! NO! Anyway will you be my valentme? Love Neolhor K nor Bubba. but Kathy 
Artontoon SENIORS Only one more day to dSsocoale woth us! Holy Cross Assoclatos-·cuntacl Volun· toer Servltes-· DEADLINE Fnday February 12 
Scott Huber dnd John 1 rue· your I!!SI personal hopelully not your la!tt Congrats on your enlfy loo Sully and tnends' 
M•rgarel F Happy Vatent1ne., DelV I th1nk you re 
I Ulfl 
A Secret Admorer 


~~()f1tS:L:):,..=:i=~~~S========~====================F=ri=da=y=,F=eb=r=ua=ry==12=,=19=8=2==p=ag=e=I=4 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 

Tickets for awayNotre Dame basketball games against Seton Hall and Michigan are available at the second floor ticket office in the ACC. The Seton Hall game will be held on tomorrow, February 18 at the Meadowlands Arena in East Rutherford, N.J. Tickets for the Michigan game, to be held at the Silverdome in Pontiac, Mich., on Sunday, March 7, are priced at S4, S6 and 58. -The Observer 
The Student Unioncontinues to sponsor ski trips to 
_J. Swiss Valley every Saturday night during the winter months. Busses depart from the Main Circle at 5 p.m. and return at I I p.m. Bus tickets can be purchased in advance from the Student Union for S2.50, or on the bus itself for $3.00. Also, discounted lift tickets and ski rental are available -The Observer 
Cross-country skiing is easy to learn. The office of Non-Varsity Athletics is sponsoring a learn-to-ski weekend for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. For details, call 239-5100. -The Observer 
The $95 balance for those interested in going on the . Student Union's Colorado ski trip is due today. The money can be 
• brought to the Student Union Ticket Office. The final room list is now posted outside the Student Union office. Those with questions or problems can call Kevin at 239-7605. -The Observer 
Cheerleader tryouts for the 1982-83 Notre Dame Cheerleading Squad will be held next month. A mandatory meeting for all interested candidates will be held in the LaFortune Little Theater on Wednesday, Feb. 7, at 7 p.m. Requirements, practice schedules, and other information will be discussed at this time. ­
The Observer 

flit? ~clZZ ()[f?§f?llt§ 
PAUL KOSIDOWSKI 

FromMarionInd. 
DiStanislao signs second recruit 
By MARK HANNUKSELA tanislao next season. Sports Writer A week ago, Cathy O'Brien of San .\1arcos, Calif, announced her inten­They must grow 'em good in tion to enroll in the univer-sity. :\1arion. Keys, one of the leading can­
A second high school basketball didates for Indiana's :\1s. Basketball star from that Indiana city has agreed award, will join classmate Joseph to enter Notre Dame and play bas­Price at Notre Dame. ketball next year. Price signed an institutional letter 
Irish women's basketball Coach of intent to play basketball under :\1ary DiStanislao has announced the men's Coach Digger Phelps back in signing ofTrena Keys, a 6-1 forward early October. 
from :\1arion High School, bringing "I'm very happy to have Trena," to two the list ofhigh school seniors says DiStanislao. "She's a pure who will play baskt:tball under DiS-shooter. and she'll add a brand new dimension to our offense. She has exceptional speed and quickness, and she has uncanny jumping ability -she's a gazelle." 
Keys currently averages 21 points, nine rebounds and five blocked shots per game for .\1arion. She is a three-time all-state selection, and prior to this season was named an All-American by Street and Smith's. 
A four-year honor roll student at \1aric.n. Keys sports a 3.25 grade point index on a 4.0 scale. 
... Hoops 

continuedfrompage 18 
Iowa62 Northwestern 49 

IOWA CITY, Iowa (AP)-Kenny Arnold, Iowa's hero against Northwestern three weeks ago tossed in six points midway through the second half to stop a Northwes­tern rally and give Iowa a 62-49 vic­tory. 
The fifth-ranked Hawkeyes jumped to an early lead and held a 34-21 halftime edge. They stretched that to a I 5-point advantage before Wildcats Bob Grady and Art Aaron tossed in I 0 points to Iowa's two, 
pulling  Northwestern  to  within  
seven.  
But in  the  next  I :41,  Arnold  

tossed in four free throws and a field goal to give Iowa a comfortable 52­40 lead with 6: 13 to play. It was Ar­nold's driving layup with nine seconds left that gave Iowa a 49-48 victory over Northwestern in the first round of Big Ten play. 
Arnold and Michael Payne finished with 14 points each for the Hawkeyes, who pushed their record to 18-2 overall and 10-1 in the con­ference. :\-lark Gannon finished with 12 for the league leaders. 
Northwestern was paced by Grady's 12 points and Aaron's I I. The Wildcats dropped to 7-13 and 3-8. 
BL00:\11GTON, Ind. (AP)-Ted Kitchel scored 22 of his 34 points in the first half, and Indiana held off a second-half lllinois rally to defeat the lllini 73-60 last night in a Big Ten Conference basketball game. 
Kitchel's tlrst half scoring spree helped the Hoosiers open a lead ofas many as 12 points late in the first half, but Illinois battled its way back into the game in the second half be­hind the shooting of Craig Tucker and james Griftin. 
The Hoosiers led by 13, 50-37, on a layup by Kitchel with 15:25 to play, but Illinois reeled off the next six points, cutting the margin to 50­43 on a jumper by Tucker at the 
13:34 mark. Three minutes later, Tucker hit a jumper from the right corner that pulled Illinois within five, 54-49. That was as close as Il­linois got the rest of the way. 
Indiana, leading 62-56 with 4:20, scored nine of the game's final 13 points, including five by reserve Dan Dakich, to open up its 13 point win­ning margin. 
Kitchel twice scored 1 0 straight Indiana points in the .first halfand led a 16-6 burst that gave the Hoosiers a 38-26 lead with 1:52 to play before intermission. He scored most of those points on long baseline jum­pers off ticks set by 7-2 freshman Uwe Blab. lllinois cut the halftime margin to eight, 40-42, on two free throws and a layup by Tucker in the final 3 7 seconds. 
Indiana kept its hopes of alive of 
repeating as Big Ten champion with 
a 7-4 conference mark and 13-7 
overall. 
Illinois dropped to 6-5 in the con­ference and I 3-7 overall. 
Michigan State 66 
Michigan 55 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. (AP) ­
Freshman Sam Vincent scored a 
career-high 24 points last night to 
spark Michigan State to a 66-55 vic­
tory over :\1ichigan. 
A sellout crowd of I0,004 in 
Jenison Fieldhouse cheered the 
Spartans to their second victory of 
the season over the arch-rival Wol­
verines. Michigan State won earlier 
in Ann Arbor, 64-62. 
The victory improved .\1ichigan 
State's conference record to 5-6 and 
I 0-1 1 overall. :\1ichigan fell to 3-8 in 
league play and 4-I 5 for the season. 
:\1ichigan State vaulted out to a 23­1 0 lead with I 0: 14 left to play in the first half, but Michigan countered with eight straight poits to cut the Spartan lead to 23-18 at 7:03. 
With the 6-2 Vincent scoring 14 points, Michigan State held a 34-29 halftime lead. 
Michigan started quickly in the second half and tied the game at 38­38 with 15:17 remaining on a free throw by Thad Garner. A fast break basket by Ben Tower gave the Spar­tans the lead for good at 40-38 with 
14:19 to go. 
Two technical touls on :\1ichigan 
helped the Spartans clinch the vic­
tory down the stretch. Freshman 
Eric Turner was whisled for one and 
Michigan Coach Bill Frieder the 
other. 
Kevin Smith converted three free 
throws from the technicals, the last 
pair coming with 2:00 remaining to 
put Michigan State up 54-4i 
Garner paced the Wolverines with I 5 points, followed by Turner with 12. 
Ohio State 74 Purdue 68 

WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) 
Larry Huggins hit two free throws 
with 44 seconds left to snuff out a 
Purdue rally and propel Oho State 
toward a 74-68 victory. 
The Buckeyes had opened a I 5­
point lead at 53-38 with 11:55 
remaining. The Boilermakers fought 
back to within two at 68-66 with 
about 44 seconds left. Purdue stole 
an inbounds pass but was called for 
traveling. 
A technical was called against 
Purdue for an intentional foul and 
Huggins went to the line. 
Ohio State got four more 
freethrows, and Keith Edmondson 
hit a basket for Purdue at the buzzer. 
Huggins, a 6-3 sophomore guard, 
and Troy Taylor. 5-1 1 freshman 
guard, scored 19 points each to lead 
the Buckeyes. 
Russell Cross was the game's leading 
scorer with 23, 14 in the second half. 
Edmondson, leading scorer in the 
Big Ten. finished with I7. 
smerd TedOz.ark [vH re.ad 219 valentine c\a~':l.,tied~. and. none ~ 
IJ.)eie .fof l.fcA · ( 
~~]~$(
~'~­

i~~ii i;iP-4£w· 
VOCAllON REtREAT  
[pl(U)[R1~ to help you consider the priesthood in the Congregation of Holy Cross [Q)~ Friday, February 26 to Saturday, February 27 7:GO p .m . 1 2 : 00 p .m . ~~Moreau Seminary ~bycalling the Vocation Office no cost 239-6385 - 
Purdue's 6-10 sophomore center 





------------------~ The Observer-Sports Friday, February 12, 1982 -page 1 5 
.222 last year, stole 22 bases, and Templeton's agent, Richie Bry, 
Notre Dame's high-scoring line ofDave Poulin The Bulldogs are in fifth place in the CCHA, just 
won his second straight Gold Glove blamed much of Tempkton's 
(15), Bill Rothstein (9) and jeffLogan ( 11) will ahead ofthe Irish. See Michael Olerzick's preview
award in his four years in the Major problems on the Cardinals' manage­
be heai~y relied upon this weekend as the Irish on page 20. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
League~. ment. 
travel to Big Rapids, Mich. to battle Ferris State. 
Joe McDonald, Cardinals ex­ecutive assistant in charge of player relations, said he.• felt the trade was in the best intcre~t of the club and of 

THe QUeST Of THe secReT CITY 
sweePSTAKes 
heres a city in Eur?Pe-you could travel there free. So unravel these nddles and . k/Y\1
' 

San Diego, St. Louis swap shortstops 
ST. LOUIS (AI') -San Diego ~honstop Ozzic Smith says he l'hanged his mind about coming to St. Louis because.· he felt the Car­dinal!. wanted him and the Padres didn't. 
Smith, 27, signed a final agrec.·­ment yestersday in a trade that sent shortstop Garry Templeton to San Diego and concluded more than two months ofnegotiations. 
"Any ballplayer wants to come to a dub where he's really wanted," Smith said at a news conference. "And I felt really wanted in St. Louis." 
Smith said he made the t1nal deci­sion to come to St. Louis about a week and a half ago. and his agent proceeded to wrap the deal up with the Cardinals. 
The switch-hitting infielder hit 
Cards play~:rs wclcomed the ncw addition to th~o: club and said they kit the trade was b~o:st li>r Tempkton. 
"We'll now havc the bcst defensive inl1cld in the league, and I don't mean that as dcrogacory toward Tempy," said first bas~:man Kdth Hernandez. "It is bctt~:r for both parties. Ozzic wasn't happy with the Padres, and Garry was un­happy hcre." · 
Templeton, 26, was suspended by the Cardinals last August for making obscen~: gestures to fans during a game at Busch Memorial Stadium in St. Louis. 
He was hospitalized with what was diagnosed as depression and rdnstated to the team after he publicly apologized to St. Louis fans at a news conference. 

~;Cl~ 
1:$.1 ,.. 
"'''~"" 
-

the controversial Templeton. 
"Garry Templeton could be the best baseball player in the world, but he just didn't want to play," McDonald said. "Whitey Herzog is trying to get together a team that wants to play." 
Smith said the troublesome issue of his salary with the.· Cardinals has still not been resolved. An arbitrator i~ sc.·hcduled to decide on a figure by March ;\0. 
Smith'~ agt:nt. Ed Gottlieb, had sruck by a demand that Smith be paid S7SO,OOO by the Cardinals, who had oll'~:rc.·d HSO,OOO. 
San Dkgo had thr~o:atcned to trim Smith's I<JHI no-tradc salary of S.WO,OOO if he did not an·cpt thc tmnsaction. But a~ oftwo wcc.·ks ago, Smith maintainl·d he would accept lowcr pay rather than take·the Cards' otkr. 
''I'Vl' had morl' timc to think thc situation ov~:r," Smith said aftcr arriving Wedncsday night from San Diego. "There.· was nc.·vcr any doubt in my mind that the Cardinal or­ganization was a grcat one, and I decided I would lih· to play ti>r them." 
...Cats 

continuedfrom page .lO 
ddc:nse, giving up only "l9. 7 points to the.· opposition ... In addition, the.· Irish arc scventh in lkld goal per­centage: ddense (37.0 pcrc~:nt ), 12th in scoring margin ( I S.2) and 
13th in 11dd goal pacc.·ntage offense 
( 49.0) ... DiStanislao's club ha!> fal­
len out of the top I S in rebounding · margin. Last wcck, thcy wcre I3th at 
li. 3. The currcnt av~:rag~: is 7.0 ... 
Sporting an 8-1 ACC record ( I S-4 ovcrall ), Notr~: Dame will try to win it's seventh straight at home against th~: B~:arcats ... Bates continues to lead three Irish players in double figures, scoring just over 12 points per game.
.. ...
,,,,,,~~,.,, 
f'ENGINEERS' '­~ WEEK" I 
(leNeRAL fOODS® INTeRNATIONAL COffees MAKe (}000 COMPANY. 
QlfllliW. fQOOI

©General FOOds Corporation 1982 
Feb. 10 ~ 
GENERAl Food} GtNERAI food} GENERAl rood} 1Nl£RNATiONAI CotiEEs INnRNATiONAI ColliEs INTERNAIIONAI Coll££s
-IndustryFair ~ ~Beam Contest ~ ~-College Bowl ~ :. -1st round~ 
~See ~ 
~ posters for details ! 
............, ....., ....,,......... 
II.. 

TO PLAY THE GAME: 
Answer each of the riddles that will appear here each week in February. Write your answer in the blanks below each riddle. The letters with numbers below them corres­pond to the numbered spaces in the master key: As you fill in the letters of the master key, you will be spelling the name and location of a secret city in Europe. Send us the solution, and you and a friend could win a trip there, free. 
TO ENTER SWEEPSTAKES: 
1. 
NO PURCHASE NECESSARY. 

2. 
Grand Prize consists of two regular round-trip economy airfares to the secret city, 30-day Eurail passes, American Youth Hostel passes, two backpacks and $1000 in cash. 

3. 
Cut out master key for use as official entry blank or use 3" x 5" card. Print your answer along with your name and address. Mail to Secret City Sweepstakes, P.O. Box 6018, Norwalk, CT 06852. 

4. 
The first 1,000 correct respondents will receive a poster as an entry prize. 


5. All entries must be received by 3/15/82. Enter as often as you , wish, but each entry must be mailed separately. 
6. 
A random drawing of all correct entries will be held 3/22182 by the Highland Group, an independent judging organization whose decision Is final. 

7. 
Sweepstakes void where prohibited, taxed or otherwise restricted. 

8. 
All potential winners may be required to sign an affidavit of eli­gibility to verify compliance with the rules within 30 days of receipt of same. For a list of prize winners, send self-addressed, stamped envelope to Secret City Sweepstakes c/o Highland Group, 16 Knight St., Norwalk, CT 06851. 


uncover zts "'J • 
WHAT AM I? 
Upon a staff I sit, I tell the name and pitch, Not one, not two, but three, Instruct the symphony. 
1 7 9 (Answer co Week #I Riddle: SNNL) 



The Observer-Sports Friday, Febr_uary 12, 1982 -page 16 

Welcome 
all you

'Toronto hosers, to the Great White South 
From us Hoosiers 
I ...... 
I 
• • .Pack 
continuedfrom page 20 

young, •but playing together and going through what we did early in the season has helped us correct those mistakes." 
Tomorrow's game against State will be a real test for the Irish, who find themselves in a "must win" situation every night if their flicker­ing chances for an NIT bid are to stay alive. But Valvano says the game will be a tough challenge for his team as well. 
"Non-conference games at this time ofthe year are the most difficult ones to play," Valvano says. "There's no way you can get a team to per­form at the same level of intensity that it reaches for ACC games. These are the games you must win to main-other forward, State boasts a front line that stands 6-7, 6-1 1 and 7-5. 
Given that imposing opposition, the health ofTim Andree becomes a factor. Notre Dame was able t to send a quicker team out on the floor at UCLA, and it worked to their ad­vantage. Tomorrow, however, State combines a team with size up front and team speed. Regardless of how good Andree feels, the week-long layoff will doubtless effect his play. 
Irish fans will see a lot offaces, as Valvano shuftles players on and off the bench. He has six other players who see action in the majority of State's games. 
"They have great depth," says Brokaw. "They come at you with a lot of people, and that helps when you're playing an up-tempo game." 
Valvano obviously wants to keep fresh personnel in the game if he is going to run against Notre Dame, and indications are strong that he will. The Irish must find a way to neutralize that speed, try to control the game and play it at a tempo most to their own advantage, while overcoming the great height disad­vantage. 
It'll be no easy task, but as Phelps says, no one ever claimed this game was easy. 
Jackson signs with Penthouse 
NEW YORK (AP) -Reggie Jack­son described his 14-year major league baseball career as a "ride through Disneyland" yesterday and insisted he had no plans to desert his first love anytime soon for his mushrooming outside interests. 
"I love baseball. I plan to play as long as I am healthy and can produce," the newly-signed Califor­nia Angels slugger said. "I hope we can get in the World Series and I think we have as good a chance as anyone else. 
"I'd like to play in 135 games, hit 30 home runs and have around I00 RBI. One of my goals is to hit 500 home runs. I am only 75 away. I can hardly wait to hit my 426th and and 427th." 
The 35-year-old outfielder returned to the scene ofhis greatest triumphs as a home run hitter for the New York Yankees to sign a contract as automotive editor of Penthouse magazine. 
Penthouse publisher Bob Guc­cione was at his right hand and a penthouse Pet, Corinne Alphen, leaned over his shoulder as he signed what was reportedly a six­figure contract to contribute six ar­ticles a year for the magazine. 
"I have tinkered with cars ever since I was a kid," said Jackson, born in Wyncote, just outside Philadel­phia." My first car was a 1955 Chevy and I still have it. I can take carsapan and rebuild them. All my life, I have thought I tnight someday go into racing." 
Jackson said he had close to .t7 automobiles in California, many of them valuable relics, and perhaps his most valuable is a S I 00,000 Rolls Royce coupe. His stock ranges from a 19:B Willb to a variety what he calls Chevy "muscle" cars, prized Porsches and Rolls Royces. 
Jackson refused to get into a ver· bal war with his former Yankee boss, George Steinbrenner, saying: 
"I don't want to say something and have George snap back at me from Florida and then have to aswer him again," he said. "I don't want w knock the guy. I had some bad times and good times in New York. But as for the tough times, I tried to turn them around and make them positive." 
tain a good season." 

So far, the season has been pretty good for the Wolfpack. Although the team has struggled to a tough 5-5 reccord in the ACC, State is 17-6 overall. Their only non-conference loss came at the hands of an un­derrated Rice team, 51-47, in Hawaii's Rainbow Classic. 
"This is a tough team," says Phelps. "They have always been tough. We are going to have to con­tinue to play with confidence and composure. We've come a long way since the beginning of the season, but we still have eight difficult games to go. 
"Games like this one, and the one at Dayton will make the difference in whether we get an NIT bid. The DePaul games always take care of themselves." 
Paxson will not be the only Irish player with a tough assignment. Bill Varner and Tim Andree, who has recovered enough to see action, will have to contend with Thurl Bailey. 
The 6-1 1 forward led the Wolfpack in scoring and rebounding last year, and continues to play a key role this season. Bailey still leads State in rebounding, pulling down about seven per game, and is right behind Whittenberg on the scoring list. His 14 points per game make N. 
C. State a threat from the front line as well as the backcourt. 
Backing up the Wolfpack's three top-flight performers is a host of solid talent. At 7-5, center Chuck Nevitt commands attention in the middle. With Scott Parzych at the 
:r1981 Beer Brewed by Miller Brewing Co., Milwaukee Wis 
_.._ 


--~--------~-­
The Observer -Sports Friday, February 12, 1982 -page 17 
Academically 
DeCicco aids student-athletes 
By BILL MARQUARD 
Sports ll?riter 
Given the atmosphere of proba­
tions and investigations pervading 
intercollegiate athletics today, a dis­
cussion of acadl·mics and their rela· 
tion to athletics often elicits visions 
of grade-fixing, phantom transfer 
crl·dits and faked transcripts. 
Yet often overlooked are the real auu.lcmic issues affecting a par· ticipant in interl·ollegiate athletics. What are the academic issues which aftcct the student involved in inter­collegiate athletics, and what response to these issues should be expl·cted from the nation's academic and athletic ad­ministrators? 
\1nre spedtkally, as we gl·t reach the l'nd ofjusticl· Week herl· at the Univl·rsity, what issues of acadl·mic justice t:tce the student-athlete? And more importantly, what is the response to those issues here at :'>lotrl· Dame? 
Thl· participant in intercolkgiatc athletics is cxpl·ctcd to invest a cer­tain amount of time in both practice and competition. As in any extra­curricular activity, the student­athlete makl'S a time commitment to his tl·am. 
But how far docs that commit· ment of timl· extend, for instance, when the student-athlete spends an extended Wl"Ckcnd on the road and has one or two l'Xams on Monday morning? llow far docs thl· commit­ml·nt eXtl·nd when classes and labs interfere with the practice sd1cdule, or when the combination of al·adl·mic and athletic rcspon­siblitics forn·s the stulknt-athktc to compromise his l'ft(>rts both in th~: classroom and on the lleld? 
"At Notre Dame, we readily admit thl· reality that docs exist," ex­plained \1ikc DeCicco, Notre Dame's highly-succc.:ssful fc.:ncing coach and the University's acadc.:mic advisor for athlc.:tics. "What we.: arc.: most concc.:rnc.:d with is how Notre Dame.: and its coaching staff handles the probkm of eoalc.:scing academics and athletics so that it ceasc.:s to bl· a problem." 
lIn like many universities in the.: 
country. Notre Dame's t(>cus is on 
the stulknt who also participates in 
athletics and not the revc.:rse. 
"We look at all ofour varsity athlc.:tc.:s 
as stlldent-athletes, not ath/ete­
·students," remarked DeCicco. "Our 
coaches are awarl· of thc.:ir athletes' 
acadc.:mic commitments and do 
thdr best to adapt to that commit· 
ment." 
Dd:icco's oftlcc, which reports to both Provost Timothy 0'\1c.:ara and Exc.:cutive Yil-c.:-Prcsident Fr. Ed­mund Joyce, c.:xpress1.·s thl· concern l(>r the student-athlete which is enl­bodied hy both the.: tht· academic and athletic administrations of the llnivl'f~ity. Throu!-\h till" academic advi~or's oftkc. the student-athlc.:tc 
receives academic counsc.:ling, a wide varic.:ty of tutoring services, and the opportunity to discuss wec.:kly study and practice schedules. 
"Tht· first thing we.: do with any studc.:nt-athlcte who comc.:s into our office is to help him dc.:al with his acadc.:mic and athlc.:tic commitments within a time.: frame," explainc.:d DeCicco. "With the assistance ofour counselors. the.: student plans out his wec.:k in terms ofclasses, study time, practice and compc.:tition." 
Naturally, schedule conflicts arc abundant with thrc.:t··hour aftc.:rnoon labs, late-afternoon requirc.:d courses and the.: like. Yet Dc.:Cicco has tiJund cooperation and a recognition of the.: contlict from both the.: academic and athlc.:tic com-. munitics. And with few exceptions, he has tinmd resolution as wdl. 
'the bottom line ... is 

that both the academic 
and athletic administrations make a concerted effort to 
recognize the 
needsofthe 
student-athlete. 

"From a coach's standpoint, it is 
g~.·nerally agrec.:d that the least com­
mitment is required of playc.:rs on 
Thursdays, so the acadc.:mic com­
munity has cooperatl·d hy schc.:dul­
ing a good pc.:r1.-c.:ntagc oflahs on that 
day," Dc.:Cicco said. 

Travc.:l is also a major factor in the time commitmc.:nt of the.: student· athlc.:tc.:. For instance, prior to the bc.:ginning of the fall st·mc.:ster it is known that the ti.mthall team will miss tlvc.: or six Fridays bc.:cause of away t(Jotball games. The basketball tc.:am also faces an extensivt· travd schedule.: each sc.:ason, as do all ofthe other Notre Dame athletic tc.:ams (although the.: travc.:lllistancc.: is often shorter than for foot hal(and basket­hall). 
"Since the majority of team travel occurs on weekends, we encourage most student-athlc.:tc.:s to take a hc.:avy schedule.: on Tuesdays and Thursdays," DeCicco explained. "If the studenr-athlcte Wkes a class on Friday, the earlic.:r it is the better." 
Of course.:, it would he.: impossible.: to plan every student-athletes' schedule to avoid such travc.:l con­flicts. However, Notre Dame coaches generally kec.:p acadc.:mic commitmc.:nts in mind whc.:n plan­ning their road schedule l(>r a season. 
For c.:xamplc. until the.: NCAA and NIT tournaments begin. Digger Phdps' Irish basketball squad will mbs only live day~ of class this sc.:mc.:ster. By scheduling a major road trip during wintc.:r break, Phelps manages to keep his players dose.: to their dassc.:s the.: week before first sc.:mester tinals and the first month and a half of the second sc.:mester. 
The.: hockey tc.:am has startc.:d to play some Saturday and Sunday sc.:rit:s to avoid missing class days on Fridays and somc.:times Thursdays. And DeCicco's fencing team will miss only one Jay ofclass this yc.:ar. 
"By picking up two or three op­ponents within a four day period, most teams can gc.:t tht· most out ofa road trip that spans two class days and a wec.:kend," said DeCicco. "The general rule which sc.:c.:ms to pervade schc.:duling is to maximize compc.:ti­tion while.: minimizing missc.:d dass days." 
The bottom line in the overlap bc.:­twec.:n academics and athlc.:tics at Notre Danll· is that both the.: academic and athletic administra­tions make a concerted eft(Jrt to recognize the.: particular nc.:cds ofthe student-athlete at the University and serve those needs wherever pos­sible. 
In fact, it is the emphasis on stu­deJzt in the name.: studc.:nt-athlc.:tc that prompted some highly­
favorahk  commc.:nts  by  NBA  star­ 
turned-li.S.-Congrt·sman  Bill  
Bradlc.:y.  Bradley  came  to  :'>lotre  

Dame in \1arch of I'PH as the guest speakc.:r at Notre Dame's haskc.:thall hanquc.:t. The Irish went to the Final Four l(>r the tirst time that season. and the.: hanl)llt:t occurred early in a week of preparation for more tournaml·nt gamc.:s. 
"I graduated from Princeton, a very respc.:cted school," began Brad­Icy. .. But when I caml· to :'>lotre Dame, I saw soml·thing I believe would nc.:ver happen anywhere else.: in the United States. I saw Digger Phelps call off a practice days bct(>re an NCAA tournamc.:nt game because his playc.:rs had midterm exams to study h>r. 
"That wouldn't happen anywhert· else." 

Freshman guartl /.aura Doug­berty displays the type of deft•nse tbat Notre IJame has plttJ•etl all
Defense! 

season .Hary•IJiStcmislao's c/u/J bas /be stingiest defenst• in tbe nation. alloll'ing on/J• 49.7 points a game. (Pboto b)• Cberyl t'rte!I) 
~ SUNDAYMASSES 
~~~ATSACREDHEARTCHURCH 
Masses are for Sunday, Feb. 14,1982 
5:15PM S_aturday  Rev. Austin Fleming  
9:00AM Sunday  Rev. Richard Conyers, C.S.C.  
10:30 AM Sunday  Rev. Nicholas Ayo, C.S.C.  ·~·.1  
12:15 PM Sunday  Rev. Austin Fleming  
7:15PM Vespers  Rev. Nicholas Ayo, C.S.C.  

A 

p Planning a spring break fling in 
Florida? Then make plans to live it up 
inside the Walt Disney World Magic { 
Kingdom! There, you'll find more than 40 
exciting attractions ... and, we're in 
easy reach of the surf and sand of your 
favorite Florida beaches! 
This spring is an especially good time 
to "break down" to Disney, during 
Tencennial-the Walt Disney World 10th 
birthday celebration ... highlighted by 
the sensational Tencennial Parade, and 
all-new musical extravaganzas. 
So, give yourself a break ... a spring 
break to remember -inside the Magic 
Kingdom of Walt Disney World! 
$13-ADMISSION AND UNLIMITED USE OF ALL ATIRACTIONS (Except Shootln' Gallery) 
SPECIAL EXTENDED SPRING HOURS March 7-12: 9 a.m.-9 p.m. March 13-Aprll1: 9 a.m.-10 p.m. 
Walti li)~sney World. 
,.,.,..,.,.,...--,..-, 
~1882 Wilt D11ney Producuon• 





------~­
-~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
1 he Observer -Sports Friday, February 12, 1982 -page 18 

Tonight 
Trackteam travels to Purdue 
ByEARLRIX 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame track team 
travels to Purdue tonight to run in 
the Indiana Big State Meet versus 
Purdue, Indiana, Indiana State, and 
Ball State. 
A number of injuries will make it difficult for the Irish to make a run at l,!Ie team championship, although ~rish are expected to do well in a number of individual events. 
Greg Bell, Bill Ribera. Tim Can­non, and Phil Gilmore are out with injuries, as well as Van Pearcy, whose knee is still mending. "At this level ofcompetition t we can't alford to lose that many people. We're not deep enough," said Irish sprint Coach Ed Kelly. "On paper we're the fourth best team." 
Some Irish athletes who figure to peform well in the meet are Paul Doyle, Jim Moyar, and Steve Dziabis. Doyle needs a 16-8 3/4 pole vault to qualify for the NCAA champion­ships. He has narrowly missed that height on several occassions this season. Dave Volz, an 18-6 I/2 In­di~a high jumper, who broke the junior world record at this meet last year, will provide plenty ofcompeti­tion for Doyle in his qualifying at­tempt. 
Jim Moyar hasn't lost all season, 
but he will have a tough time 
THE WORLD IS YOUR CAMPUS 
Gain a full semester's credits while you 
SAIL AROUND THE WORLD! 
Special Slide 
Presentation 
...__
·­
February 16, 1982 
Spring voyage sails March 4, 1982 from Ft. Lauderdale -Spain, Greece, Egypt, Israel, Indio, Sri Lanka, Philippines, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Korea, Japan. 
Fall voyage sails Sept. 8, 1982 from Seattle -Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Indio, Sri Lanka, Egypt, Israel, Greece, Spain. 
More than 60 university courses, with in-port and voyage-related emphasis. Faculty from University of Pittsburgh and other leading universities, augmented by visiti,ng area experts. 
Optional tours, including special tours into the People's Republic of Chino, available. 
Participation is open to qualified students from all accredited colleges and universities. Semester at Sea admits students without regard to color, race or creed. The S.S. Universe is fully air-conditioned, 18,000 tons, registered in Liberia and built in America. 
FOR A FREE COLOR BROCHURE, WRITE: SEMESTER AT SEA, UCIS, UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH, FORBES QUADRANGLE, PITTSBURGH, PA 15260, OR CALL toll free (800} 854­0195 (in California call (714} 771-6590}. 
keeping his unbeaten record intact against Indaina's Jim Spivey in the !000-meter run. Spivey is one of the nation's premier milers. 
Steve Dziabis will have a chance to qualify for the NCAA's if he can keep up with the high-quality field in the 400 meters. "The 400 will be a smoker," says Kelly. Dziabis has been running consistently well all season and has the meet's fastest­entered time in the 600 meters, which he will also run. Because he runs the 400 first, Dziabis' chances of running an NCAA-qualifying time in the 600 are somewhat lessened. 
John McCloughan has been run­ning extremely well in the high hurdles and he will be tested tonight by Purdue's \lark Commack. .\1cCloughan and Commack have split their two previous collegiate meetings. 
Because of injuries to Bell and Gilmore, Bernie Adell will run the 60 meters for the Irish. "Bernie is a very positive addition to the team," says Kelly. "His times are dropping every race." 
Senior co-captain Jacques Eady will run the 300 meters. Tim Macauley and Rick Rogers will represent the Irish in the 800. "Macauley finally had a good race at last weeks' Knights of Columbus meet-a I:54.6 split on the boards," Piane says. 

Freshman Jim Tyler will run the mile. Ralph Caron and Andy Dillon, who placed third and fourth at the K. of C. meet last weekend, will run in the two-mile event. 
Robby Finegan will put the shot for the Irish. 
Chuck Constable, a frcshman from North Babylon, N.Y., "is start­ing to jump well," according to Pianc. He will be the Irish high jumpcr this weckend. 
Clampett leads in 
Hawaii 
HONOLULU (AP)-Bobby Clam­pelt mastered howling winds and driving rain with a no-bogey, S­under-par 67 and took the early first­
round  lead  yesterday  in  the:  
storm-delayed  S325,000  Hawaiian  
Open Golf Tournament.  

"It's a monsoon, as tough condi­tions as you'll find anywhere," the 21-year-old Clampett said after his tour over the 6,881-yard Waialae Country Club course. 
The start of the day's play was delayed an hour and a half due to heavy overnight rains that flooded portions ofthe flat, low-lying course, turned sand traps into ponds and left pools and puddles scattered about the course. Squalls continued throughout the morning. 
With about half the field of 144 still out in the extremely difficult conditions, Clampett had a two­stroke lead over Mark Lye, Ed Sneed, Andy North and Tommy Valentine, tied at 69. 
Clampett, a four-time runner-up and. winner of S184,000 last year. also had an eagle, on the par-5 ninth 
which he reached with a 3-iron second shot that stopped some 10 feet from the wind-whipped flag. 
His three birdies, on the second, 
I Oth and I7th, all came from the 8­_10 foo.t range, He missed only thr.ee ·greens and saved par on all of them. 
tonight in order to qualify for the NCAA championships. The Irish 
are participating in the Indiana Big State Meet at Purdue. (Photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
College basketball : 
Bears upsetRazors 
Baylor 56 Arkansas 55 

WACO, Texas (AP) -Terry Teagle's 36 points and freshman james Stern's blocked shot in the final three seconds ofovertime gave the Baylor Bears a 56-55 Southwest Conference upset of No. 8 ranked 
Arkansas. Teagle scored four ofhis points in overtime, but it was Stern's block of a 20-foot jump shot by Ricky Norton that preserved the victory. Stern had just missed the front end of two one-and-one attempts an stood a chance of wearing goat horns ifNorton's shot had fallen. 
The Razorbacks, who lead the SWC by a game over Texas A&M with a 8-3 ledger, are now 17-4 for the year. Baylor is 7-5 and tied with TCU for third place. The Bears are 
14-8 for the season. 
Darrell Walker led the Razorbacks with 1 5 points in the Heart '0 Texas Coliseum where the Bears have up­set Texas and Texas A&M this year. 

North Carolina 59 Maryland 56 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. (AP) -Two free throws by North Carolina's Matt Doherty with three seconds remain­ing halted a valiant Maryland upset bid as the second-ranked Tar Heels grabbed a 59-56 Atlantic Coast Con­ference basketball victory over the Terrapins last night. 
Doherty finished with 18 points to lead North Carolina's attack, while Maryland freshman Adrian Branch led all scorers with 20 points -16 in the second half. 
James Worthy and MichaelJordan added 12 points apiece as North 
Carolina raised its record  to  19-2  
and 8-2 in the ACC.  
Herman  Veal  came  off  the  

Maryland bench to add 12 points as the Terps dropped to 14-8 and 4-6 in the league. 
The Tar Heels found themselves in a fight for much of the contest as the patient Terrapins attacked the larger North Carolina front line. 
See HOOPS, page 14 
This Friday, Feb. 12 



---·--------~-~----·--------~­
Ibe~rver========================================== 

\1olarity 
IT'S D£.CID£D,I. DON'/ B~LIF:V£ IT BL117Hc l-~W JJAS BE£N i..-o\10 CXJWN. 
WE:'I?f': GWJc, TO L-1\}[3:. IN 1305/c?/J NEAR CI/ERYL'S JoB 
AND r uV£5? .:r'M 4DINO, 
TO B£ It ~E: HU!JEMND 
Si:non 
~~~~~==========================~F=r=id=a=y,=F=e=b=ru=a=ry==I=2=,1=9=8=2===p=a=g=e=l~9 
WHAT HAF'P£'N£P IO HY' CHI/..PHDCP ~t:AHS? I W4S GtOINf:t TO BE A RicH T="AHDU.S 
AL./... STAR FOOTBALL ftAY!~. ANO HY /NIF!O IJA5 4DINq To 1:!£ R16rHI BE:.HINO H£ 
1./XJ(, ter's NIJMI. 5/R.A PEAL 15A PeAL. We
~711€ 
HAVE (1JR. REPtJ­
UD£7HIN6, F£JJA11 71115 T/JTDJ 10 CIJ'.J­
S/IJ£1? HEJ?i;.
15 AN INSUl-T! I 


BUT NOW ALL THAT'.s 
GDN£ ALL MY' PRF:AHS 
WILL Nc:VEER H4PPEN 

BUT TODRY 1:'> 'fRIDAY" ON EAR\11 flfTER 5 OOYS OF v.Q(K HE STU\)EI'lT:'> ARE "TURNED ' ~E" iO (:C) OJT llNC> "GEl 
RIPPED~ 

ACROSS 24 City south 1 Harbor of Florence anxiety 26 Swinging 
5 Brazilian seat port 27 Shock 10 File folder absorber 
extensions 30 Legal right 14 Soft breeze 32 Fjord city 15 "Haste 33 Spoke 
makes wildly waste" 35 "-can is one you see" 
16 Mad as -39 Khayyam hen 40 Bedouins 17 Disclosure 41 Nothing: Sp. 
of a kind 42 Resounded 18 Jabbed 43 Up tight 19 Cabbage 44 Release 20 Plus item a switch 22 Carmine 45 Drive out 23 High home of bed 
Thursday's Solution 

\1ichael \1olinelli 

Jeb Cashin 
5\)IJ~DS PEH~fllLI 
47 -,no 12 Misrepre· runs, ... sent 49 Win the con· 13 Use a fidence of rudder 52 Previn or 21 Four-in· Kostelanetz hand 54 Cat·-· 23 "The Great· 
tails est" 55 In the past 25 Corrigendum 56 Bitter 26 Boon 60 Dray 27 Lout 61 On the ball 28 ODE's 63 Argyles alma mater 64 Legjoint 29 Molded 65 Loop dessert 66 Thought 31 Yanks' foes 67 Dispatch 34 Greek 68 Suspend war god 69--do-well 36 Delhi 
garment DOWN 37 Entrance 
1 White House 38 Pet store pet of yore sounds 2 Feels 46 Argentite, penitent tor one 
3 Periods 48 Mouths: Lat. 
of note 49 Piers 4 Assumes 50 Vacuous 5 Raised 51 Patrol 
fibers car item 6 Festoon 53 Scandina· 7 Exploit vians a Like Methu· 55 Lily plant 
selah 57 Traveled 9 Was ahead 58 It's clear 10 Get one's to me comeuppance 59 Cherished 11 Grammy, 61 Also for one 62 Dist. 
Campus 
Friday, February 12 
•12: 
IS p.m. -Lecture, "l:'antasy: Es~.:ape from Reality to Truth", Orson Su>tt Card, N.D. Graduate Student, :\kmorial Library Lounge, Sponsored by Graduate Student Advisory Committee 

•12: 
I') -I: I') p.m. -Meeting, ND-SMC Italian Club, Fa~.:ulty Dining Room, South Dining Hall. All Italian-speaking fa~.:ulty wduHne 

•12:~0 
p.m. -FUm, "Five Minmes to Midnight", Center t(Jr Continuing Educuion, l:TS Tht·arrt·, Sponsort·d by Student Government 

• 
~:~0 p.m. -Lecture, "Matht·matkal Epist~.·mol­ogy: \X'hat is the Question?", Proft:ssor Pendope Maddy, :'\lotrt· Damt·, .\kmorial Library Fan•lty Lounge •-t -') p.m. -Tertulia, Spanish Club, Basement of LaFortune, Venga para hablar con nosotros y prac­ticar d arte de ~.:onver~ar 

•7-9:~0 
p.m. -Film, "'fht· King and 1", Carroll Hall, Sponsored by Saint Mary's Programming Board 

•7:.~0 
p.m.-Film, "The Conformist", Annenbcrg Auditorium. Snitl." :\tuseum of Art, Sponsored by Department of Communication and Theatre, SI admission 

•H 
p.m. Plays, "Coal Diamond" and "Overtones". Directnl by Annt· Patll'rson...\lorl'au Halll.illk Theatr1.·. Saint :vlary's Colkgl', Sponsorl'd by Second Scene. S I admission 

•H 
p.m. ...,-Hockey, :'\lotrc Dame vs. ·Ferris Slate, CCIIA <iamc. Awa,· ••) p.m.-I a.m. -Talent Show, The Best of :vlardi <.iras. LaFortune Ballroom. S2 donation 


Saturday, February 13 
•1 
p.m. -I a.m. -Dance-A-Thon, ,\htrdi <.iras. ~otre Dame ACC. Gall' ~ 

• 
1 p.m. ~ Basketball, :\lotrc l>allll' \\'oml'n vs. Cincinnati. AC<.. 

•·t 
p.m. -Ho<.:key, :\loire Dame vs. Fcrrb Stall'. CCHA <.iam1.·. A\\ a\ 

•H 
p.m. -Basketball, :\lotrc Damt· .\1\l'n vs. :\lorth Carolina Statl·. AC< · ••J p.m. -I a.m. -Dance, .\lardi <iras l'uhlil Charity Dance. :"<orth Dome ACC, (iatc ~. S~ Public Admission 


Sunday, February 14 
• 
I p.m. -Tennis, :\lotrt· Damt· \kn vs. Ohio State. ACC. Indoor Courts, Free Admission 

• 
I --1 p.m. -Opening Exhibition, llannscn's Collection of :"ooavajo \\'eavings. O'Shaughnt·ssr Galleries 

• 
2 p.m. -Mass, .\lass with Emmaus: Community with tht· .\1cntallv Handicapped at .\lorcau St·mi· nary. All inttTcstt·d an· invit1.·d 


•6 p.m. -WSND Radio, Top Twenty Timl' 'l'lm· nd 
•H 
p.m. -WSND Radio, Rock in lktrospcct 

•H 
p.m. -Auditions, "Amnican Buffalo", David \lonet, :\'1>-S.\IC Second Scent·, \X'ashingron Hall 

•s: 
I.::; p.m. -Lecture, Recital, l>r. EugcrH" <.iratovich. violinist. Dr. Virko Baky, pianist, \kmorial l.ibran· Audiwrium 

• 
I0 p.m. -WSND Radio, Sporb Sundav· 


T.V. Tonight 
7:00p.m. 16 \IASII 
11:30 p.m. i6 l'uni~:hr Shu\\ 22 Ill'hind Thl' !'.cn..-n 28 All< :'lit'\\~ :'llightluw 34 <.aplionl'd All<. :'>lt·,i·~ 
12:00 a.m. 22 <:II~ \lo\'it·:· "Diar)· 01 A Tn·nagt·d 
lluchikl'f" 28 Sarurda\· -.ighr l.ivt· 46 l.t·~ll'f ~umrall Tt·al'lung 
12:30 a.m. 16 SCT\' <.omnly :'li<·lworl.. 46 Tht· lknl'wed \1ind 
-
... 
WE HA~E Lt.ARNE.D MUlH 1~E Mf\10!l.IP/ Of E.RRfHLiNC,~ 1\Rt. "5TUDENT5" Wl\0 Pl\"f IHE l'liNOR!TY (·111£ 1\UMI~ i':iTRIITION ") HU6E :1-lfll~ Ci' f'tlNtY To l'i'ULE CW£1\ i!IEM WITH AN \RON 1'15\ 


The Dail)' Crossword 

'Broadway's Smash Hit, Now on Stage Notre Dame Student Union presents 
s:~~~~~~o IEATLEMAIIA 
Morris Civic Auditorium Wed., March 248pm Lottery Sunday Feb.14 7 pm Nazz Must bring cash or money along with student I.D. Buseswill be available from main circle 

.,._. 
Dli~!O~ E4!m welcomes Toronto 
Birthday Special BACARDI & YOUR FAVORITE MIX! 
Valentine's Day Eve Party! 
Free candy ,flowersfor tbe first I 00/{irls, and specials on lrisb kisses &Strawberr_y Daiquiris! 



Friday, f(;bruary 12. 198:2 -page 20 
Irishlook to cage 
N.C. State Wolfpack 
By SKIP DESJARDIN running, and the Irish are going to Sports Editor have to contend with State's im­pressive team speed. 
Don't let tht: rect:nt scores fool "We don't havt: a Ralph Sampson." you. :'llotrt: Damt: and :--lorth says Irish assistant Gary Brokaw. "so Carolina Start: will likely play a they won't have: to force as low whole nt:w brand of basketball scoring a gamt:.'' tomorrow night in the ACC. Despite the near-success of\\'ed­
In their last game, the Irish playt:d nesday's gamt:. howt·vcr. State with a great deal ofpatienct:. waiting Coach Jim Valvano 1»ays ht: dblikes l(>r opportunitit:s to prest:nt them­slow games. and ht: is one of the selves, and trying to take advantage strongest advocatt:s in the country of those opportunitit:s. Unli>rtunatt:­ofa shot dock for colkge gamt:s. His ly h>r Diggt:r J:'hdps anll h1s ,.,yuad. gent:ral pnnnpk 1:-. widely hl'ld. but thost: occasions did not arise Valvano has a unique shot clock through tht: last 1 l minutt:s of the proposal he thinks is the answer to ballgame, and ~otrt: Damt: was tht: problem. edged by UCLA. -t8-·-17. "\X'e nt·ed a shot clock of -t'i 
For their part. tht: Wolfpack seconds." ht: says. "The t1nal four pickt:d thdr spots carefully and minutes of a game would not have were able to beat a tough Virginia that restriction. That's so the !eatn Tech team, 48-47. Tht:n Wednesday that has played wdl would have a night State came clost: to pulling off chance to protect its lead. an upset of Ralph Sampson and Vir­"But wt: won't put in a shot clock ginia before losing 39-36. until the coaches, the fans. the media 
Both coaches prefer to call that and the TV people decidt: that more style of play "patience." :\1ost fans action is needed. 1 think a clock call it a slowdown. would give the game back to the 
john Paxson dishes off to Tim Andree 
Tomorrow, things will be dif­kids, wht:re it belongs."
slam dunk against Marquette. Andree returns to 
ferent. The Wolfpack will come out Valvano says he hates to see teams 
the Irish lineup tomorrow after suffering an it-
play to keep from losing rather than to win, and he wants to take the ac­tion to Notre Dame. He certainly, as the saying goes, has the horses. 
A quick look at scoring statistics

Bulldogs entertain Irish as playoffs approach 
would give one the impresssion that 
N. C. State is a two-man team. but By MICHAEL OLENIK once again, having accumulated 16 depends on its potent offense. Only Hughston. that's deceiving. The team is deep. 
Sports Writer goals and 2 3 assists. Bowling Green shows more goals Also a major force in Notre "They can just throw so manyCook, meanwhile, has knocked in for its efforts than the Irish a fact Dame's acheivements
-recent has people at you it's amazing," says With the CCHA playoffs looming eight goals in his last four games and readily tracable to the play ofSmith's been the play of goaltender Bob Phelps. clearly on the horizon, many of the has risen to second on the Bulldog first line. :\1cNamara. The junior now has 
John Paxson will once again draw league contenders will be digging in scoring list with 38 points. Although each of the other lines picked up three straight wins and the assignment of guarding the op­a little deeper as opponents make a Probably the most vital element of has performed in top fashion as of has trimmed his g.a.a. to 4. 14 -re­position's star. Paxson has shown run for post season play. the Ferris State club is goaltender late, it has been the combination of spectable enough to earn him CCHA time and again that defense may be Such will be the situation in Big Rob Hughston. The freshman was Dave Poulin, Bill Rothstein and jeff nomination for player of the week the strongest part of his game, hold­Rapids, Mich.,this weekend as the credited with both wins against Logan that has provided the impetus for his efforts against Lake Superior. ing All-America candidates like Jon Notre Dame hockey team enters yet Notre Dame in November, and by needed for Notre Dame's recent Sunvold of Missouri and Quintin another key league series with fifth­virtue of his 3.63 goals against mark, streak. It will not be up to just :\1cNamara 
Dailey ofSan Francisco at bay. place Ferris State. is ranked among the league leaders. The three make up one of the or Smith's prized first line to to lead Tomorrow, Paxson's target will The Irish, just one notch below Due to the Bulldogs' somewhat most effective lines in the league, as the team alone, as combined team be 6-1 guard Dereck Whittenberg. the Bulldogs, will be looking to keep stingy nature, the series will feature each ranks impressively on the play is needed to win in almost any After coming off the bench most of up the good work they have dis­a showdown between each team's league scoring-leader list. They ob­hockey league. But a standout per­last season, Whittenberg has taken played in recent weeks strength. While Ferris will relies viously will be relied upon for much formance on either's part might over a starting assignment, and evidenced by a 5-2-1 record and primarily on Hughston and its of the firepower this weekend bring back the victories needed to quickly become the Wolfpack's three consecutive wins. The task blueline coros. Notre Dame will against the especially tough keep the Irish home for the playoffs. leading scorer. A graduate of before them, however, is anything 
DeMatha High School in Washing­but menial, as Rick Duffett's club al­
ton, D.C., Whittenberg is averaging ready enjoyed feasting on the Irish 
Women 's basketball just under 15 points a game. last Thanksgiving. Teaming up with Whittenberg in In that series Notre Dame was 
the State backcourt will be Sidney shut out for the only time this Lowe. The two have played together
Cincinnatti invadesACC 
season, and that combined with a 6­
for seven years now, as Lowe is a for­2 loss the next night left the Irish in By MARK HANNUKSELA matched. They are a lot similar to us junior forward Shari :\1atvey will mer prep All-American at DeMatha. front of the drawing board. Sports Writer in that they play a lot of man-to-man each be in pursuit of records in Lowe is quickly becoming one of Things are quite differnt these defense and they J usually are tomorrow's game. the all-time assist leaders for the days though, and Ferris knows that it There may be a track meet in the patient." Bates has scored in double figures Wolfpack. So far this season, he has will have to do more than just show ACC Arena tomorrow afternoon. Coached by Ceal Barry, a 1977 in nine straight contests, dating back dished out well over 120 assists (as up to have any success against the Notre Dame's women's basketball Kentucky graduate who is in her to a jan. 13 date at the College of compared to Paxson's 78) and now flexing Irish. Coach Mary DiStanislao hopes there second year at UC, the Bearcats Saint Francis. trails only Clyde "The Glide" Austin "We have been playing hot teams, isn't. sport a quartet of double-figure A native of Kansas City, :\1o., Bates in that category. it seems, every weekend, and Notre "We have to control the tempo scorers. needs 10 points tomorrow to tie the "We played one ofour best games Dame has really caught fire since we and beat them down the floor," says Senior center joy Roberts is the record held by Matvey and 1979 of the year against N. C. State last played them in November," admits DiStanislao of tomorrow's op­point leader, averaging just over 14 graduate Carol Lally. year," recalls Phelps. "I hope we can Duffett. ponent, the Bearcats of the Univer­per game. :\1atvey, who holds more than 30 put together another performance Fire might be a bit much, but sity of Cincinnati. "They score a lot Also in double figures are senior individual records herself, needs like that one. there is Iitle doubt that Notre Dame of points, and they give up a lot, and guard BarbJaksa ( 1 1.2 ), sophomore just seven points against Cincinnati "In the last eight games, this team has both the capabilites and now that in itself is an indication that they forward Stasia Kissel ( 10.8) and to tie the record set by I981 grad has undergone a complete reversal. seemingly the mind to play with any feel they have to score a lot ofpoints freshman guard Cheryl Cook ( I 0. 7 ). Maggie Lally for most points scored We are playing well as a team, and team in the conference. to win. We have to execute, get the Cook was Indiana's .\1s. Basketball by a junior. playing smart basketball. It all comes "If you had to choose a time to good shots and hold them down." last year. Cincinnati and Notre Dame have 
with experience. Early in the season peak as a team, I guess this would be Cincinnati, 14-8 heading into last Kissel, with 181, leads the Bear­played two common opponents, not we made a lot of mistakes because it," related Coach Lefty Smith earlier night's game against Ball State in cats in rebounding. She has pulled counting Ball State, whom the Irish we were young as a team. We're still 

this week. "Against Lake Superior,  Muncie, Ind., will bring a 74-point  down one more than Roberts.  beat 60-57 two weeks ago.  
we were  able to play our style of  scoring  average  to  the  ACC  for  "Cook  is  their  one-man  gang,"  In  the  University of Cincinnati­ 
game,  and  I  thind  we  physically  tomorrow's 4 p.m. start.  says  DiStanislao.  "She  can  shoot  Coke Classic back in December, the  
dominated them. Of course, I'm ex­ The Bearcats give up an average of  from  a  distance,  and  she's quick  Bearcats drubbed :\1ichigan 93-65,  
tremely p t leased with our penalty­ 70 points per game, and are coming  enough to drive. Roberts is someone  and .\1onday night, UC lost to :\1iami  
killing unit and with the way Bob  off a pair oflosses in vvhich they sur­ they've been looking to a great deal  88-80.  
McNamara has responded for us, but  rendered 81 to Illinois State and 88  recently,  and  Kissel  is  back  and  Notre Dame beat :\1ichigan 71-48  
the next couple of weeks are impor­ to Miami (Ohio).  playing  well  after sitting out  last  in the ACC three weeks ago, and lost  
tant. It would be nice to gain some  "From what we've seen ofCincin­ season with a knee injury. I've been  at :\1iami 65-61 last weekend.  
momentum right about now."  nati, they're usually a pretty patient  impressed with her.  Tomorrow's will be the first-ever  
Leading Ferris State's attempt to  team," says  DiStansilao.  "But they  "They are a deep team -probab­ meeting between Notre Dame and  
slow down the Irish will be senior  just got killed by Illinois State, and  ly eight or nine players," adds Notre  Cincinnati.  
center  Jim  Baker  and  recently­ they gave up a lot ofpoints to :\1iami,  Dame's second-year coach.  "They  IRISH  ITE:\1S  - In  this  week's  
ignited Paul Cook. Baker has been in  so they must have been pushing the  will probably have the edge in ex­ NCAA  statistics,  :--lotre  Dame  
the Bulldog limdight for most of his  ball up the floor.  perience, and they  are  all prolific  remains the No.  I team in scoring  
four years, and rightfully so. This season he leads the team in scoring  "Even so," she says, "they're a good team, and we're pretty evenly  scorers." Freshman center Carrie Bates anJ  See CATS, page 15  

See PACK, page 16 
INSIDE: 
Track,p.18 Student-athletes
p.l7J
Ozzie,p.l5 






