...Nestle reply -page 7 

VOL. XVII, NO. 99 an mdependem student newspaper serving nom~ dame and saint mary's THURSOA Y, FEBRUARY 18, 1982 

TonewSBP 
Murday discusses transition 
Editor's Note: Student Body Presi­platform you are speaking of on the goals that I have set for Stu­dent Don Murday recently spoke among the three? dent Government this year, and that with Observer reporter Randall A: I think all of them. I think it is...a report which will be given to Goskowicz, offering hisperspective relates to (the candidates) trying to the Trustees in May on a Student on the future of the Student Body get student response. The students Center. We will be travelling in a President office. would love to see a SBP come in and group formed under my leadership 

be radical. Once you start doing that will look at Student Centers things and using (radical) tactics... over spring break...we will develop a the University probably would love report to the Trustees citing the to see someone do that, because weaknesses ofthe University and the that's when they can come down strengths of the University. This is even harder. You can't act rashly...it coupled with an independent report might look good, but it won't do the done on the University. Hopefully students a bit of good. We have to Lloyd (Burke) and Bob (Yonchak) work with the Administration. can...start with that... on the social
DonMurday 
Q: What will be the upcoming ef­side of things. fortsfor the 1982-83 schoolyear, as An academic committee was
Q: What did you think about the 
you perceive them? 

platformsfor thisyear's election? 
A: I hope that they will...follow up See Q&A, page 3 

A: There is nothing that can be radically different from year to year... nothing should be different. When we start pursuing different things year after year, we begin to 

Burns displays styles 

lose the sense ofcontinuity... people in the administration tend to write you off as being a 'shot in the dark.' I 

at poetry session 

think that probably my biggest dis­
agreement with the platforms this By MOLLY NOLAND mt:nt," Burns stressed. "All poets 
year was that there are a lot ofpoints StaffReporter write for the living and for posterity. 
of view... that 'well, since we can't Because I am concerned fo future 
get anything done in the system, we Richard Burns, an associate visit· generations, I must be concened for 
have to work outside the system.' ing professor from London, dis­nuclear disarmament." 
That... is the biggest fallacy that has played a wide range of interests and This statement was intended to 
ever cropped up in any ofthese elec­diverse style at a poetry reading held clear up some of the controversy tions, because you can't work last night at Hayes-Healy surrounding Burns since his out­outside the system to change some­Auditorium. burst at a recent CII.A workshop thing within the system; it's a His works range from light lecture given by Bishop Huntauscn, bureaucratic fact that we all have to humorous poems for "teenage who favored nuclear disarmament. live with. punks" to an immense allegorical During the question and answer 
Q: Could you cite exact()' which poem called "Angels". period after Huntauscn's lecture, 
Themes of war and death seem to Burns addressed the audience and underly much of his work. At one accused the United States of using point ofhis presentation, Burns read the Soviet threat as an excuse to a translation from a Greek poem produce more nuclear weapons. Be which touched him deeply: "When claimed our motives arc economic,



ABC's Lance keeps learning 
this war is over, don't forget me; Let not the result of actions by the Rus­me hold you in the gas chamber, Be· sians. "The Soviets themselves arc tween the eye ofa machine-gun." Af. not a threat," he said, "they're afraid 
By CATHLEEN DOMANICO On top of every issue or possible noted that he can spend up to three tcr reading it, Burns played a ofChina." and MARY AGNES CAREY story, Lance stated, "there's the tip months researching a story and "we tape-recording of a friend singing By offering his opinion, Burns Suint Mary's News Editors of the iceburg," but "there's also don't do a story unless they (ABC) the poem. hoped to express his fear for future 
seven-eighths below" that can be in­think they're right. If he's (a subject) Another theme that Burns con­generations. He said, "Iffor no other 
One should not make any ethical vestigated. "You can always do it clean why do the story?" veyed at the reading was a constant reason, nuclear disarmament should ,.-ompromises to be a successful in­better...another angle...another concern for the welfare of future be for our children." vestigative journalist, according to way.'' Investigative journalism, accord­generations. In one of his poems,· Burns said that his concern is 
ABC television's "20-20" correspon­Every reporter can anger and ing to Lance, is "a term that is often titled "Letter to Poland, 1981," based on his belief that "the poem is dent Peter Lance. potentially injure the reputation of misused," but is still an area where Burns spoke ofterror and expressed a message in a bottle," and that he, as "You really have to work hard...no his subject, as well as create "you can do things on your his views on nuclear disarmament. a poet, feels obligated to deliver that 
'sell-outs'. It (investigative jour· economic pressures against his own...realize your dream." "I am totally for nuclear disarma· message. 
nalism) is a continuing education publication. Lance cited the 
course," he told his Saint Mary's Car­physician who was the subject ofthe 
'Absolute lies' 
roll Hall audience last night. "Unnecessary Surgery" piece who is "There's no town too small to find suing ABC for $9 million dollars. corruption," he said, "there's always 

Nestle deniesformula accusations
something behind the headlines... something there ifyou look for it, no 
·You really have 
matter how young or inexperienced caused a large number of Third or distribute posters or gimmicks
By VIC SCIULLI 
you are in reporting." World mothers to switch from with our formula brand names on 
StaffReporter
Lance, 34, a "20-20" investigative to work hard . brcastfceding to bottle-feeding. them. We do have 35 mothcrcraft correspondent, has worked as a In 1978, the Notre Dame/St. 
nurses tn our c1up10y; they work in producer for ABC since 1974. He no sell-outs. ' Mary's community voted to boycott four nations on the approval of the received his bal·helor's degree from Nestle products. Notre Dame Food governments there." Northeastern l'niversity, Boston, Services also participated in the According to Nestle, there is no 
and his master's in journalism from The reporter's right to publicize boycott. In effect for two years, the strong evidence that aggressive Columbia University, New York. He an issue is just as important to the boycott resolution was extended marketing procedures are respon· also received a law degree from individual's right to privacy. For ac­last year by the Student Affairs sible for the increase in boule· Fordham University, also in New curacy, Lance stated, "we use three Boycott Committee. Many have been lead to believe feeding in Third World countries. In York. to four sources (for confirmation) A debate is scheduled between through the heavy advertising that the United States, where inf.tnt for· 
After a brief explanation of his on everything we say." . Nestle and INFACT for 7:30 p.m. bottle-feeding is a superior form of mulas are heavily advertised, background and position at ABC, "Check, triple check and quad­tonight in the Library Auditorium. A nutrition for their children. breastfeeding has dramatically in­Lance showed "Unnecessary Sur­ruple check. Be skeptical," he said, student vote will be taken on March Nestle spokesmanjack Mongoven creased in the past decade. In the gery," a "20-20" segment that aired adding that a reporter must also be 2 to determine whether the boycott called the numerous accusations Soviet Union, where there is virtual· Jan. 8, 1981. The film dealt with objective in the way information is will be continued. against Nestle "absolute lies." ly no ,advertising of infant formula, l.an..:c:'s investigation of an Arkansas gathered. Nestle has also been accused of "We do not advertise our infant there has been a sharp increase in physician charged with numerous Lance discussed the difficulty a distributing free samples to both formula in developing nations, and the usc ofinfant formulas. cases of unnecessay and, in some reporter may have getting both sides hospitals and the homes ofnewborn have not for some years," said Dr. Nestle cites the World Health Or­cases, fatal surgery. He then opened of the story to talk. If people do not infants and paying physicians and Thad M. Jackson, Vice President of ganiatlon's 1975-1977 survey of the forum to questions. cooperate, he stated, "they have health institutions to promote their the Nestle Coordination Center for 23,000 mothers in nine poor na­
As an investigative jour· something clearly to hide" perhaps formula to mothers. Nutrition. "We do not give samples tions, which allegedly showed no nalist,"you're in a position to do afraid of divulging evidence that These aggressive marketing to mothers. We do not participate in some good. You can bring social would stop legal allegation later. He procedures, INFACT believes, have baby shows, promotions ofany kind See NESTLE, page 5 
( 
" 
., 
r 



NewsBrie,b 
Bv ThP Observer and The Associated Press 
Lee Strasberg,who taught "method acting" to a genera-· tion of stars such as Marlon Brando, James Dean and Marilyn Monroe, died yesterday ofa heart attack. He was 80. The graduates of Strasberg's Actors Studio comprise a virtual Who's Who ofAmerican acting: Robert De Niro, Paul Newman, Al Pacino, Jane Fonda and Sally Field, to name afew more. In 1974, the master teacher made his movie debut, and won an Oscar nomination for his portrayal of an aging underworld boss in "Godfather II." Such recognition also followed his pupils -organizers ofan Actors Studio party in 1980 figured Strasberg's students had won or been nominated for 128 Oscars, Tonys and Emmys. Strasberg was stricken at his apartment on Central Park West at 6:30 a.m.-and rushed to St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital, where doctors tried to revive him until 7:56a.m., saidJohn Springer, publicist for Strasberg and the studio. He will be memorialized at the Shubert Theater at 11 a.m. Thursday, Springer said. Burial will be at Westchester Hills Cemetery. -AP 
"Have gun, will travel"'says ex-copJoseph Wam­baugh, whose films and novels about police work have helped put him in the running for police chiefof Houston, a job he never even applied for. The author of "The Blue Knight," "The Onion Field," "The Choirboys" and "The New Centurions," says he will en­thusiastically accept if chosen from a field of 11 current or former law enforcement officers being considered for· the job by Mayor Kathy Whitmire. Seven of the candidates applied for the job. The others were recommended by various people. The mayor's office would not say who recommended Wambaugh, a 14-year veteran of the Los Angeles Police Department. Wambaugh eventually became a detective sergeant. -AP 
The owner of New York's famed Sardi's res­
taurant waded into icy Central Park lake to rescue a woman who nearly drowned trying to save two brothers who had fallen through thin ice. Vincent Sardi, 66, was bicycling in his business suit when he saw Barbara Varnhagen flailing about iri the water. Sardi found some rope and waded into the water. "I kept flipping the rope to her," he said. After pulling her out, he rode on to Manhattan's theater district, where he downed a few brandies at his restaurant to warm up.· Enzo DiBello, 13, and his 9-year-old brother Victor had been pulled to safety by two young men. But in the confusion, nobody noticed whether the woman who had tried to save them ever made it to 
shore herself Police in diving suits and in boats searched ~he lake for four hours before it was learned that Miss Varnhagen had already been saved. -AP 
The 15-year-old daughterofa Michigan official probably will be placed in state care after she admitted respon­sibility to arson in the fire death ofher father, a Michigan prosecutor said. Nancy VanNote was charged with arson and manslaughter in the death ofher father, Stephen VanNote, 49, in a Dec. 30 fire at their lansing home. However, assistant Ingham County Prosecutor Kim Eddie said the manslaughter charge was dismissed following her ap-~ pearance Tuesday in Ingham County Probate Court. She admitted responsibility for arson, and as a result will be placed in the state's custody as a juvenile. The girl apparently had not intended to kill her father, Eddie said. "She admitted setting the fire," he said. "We believe she was frustrated and apparently was trying to get atten­tion." -AP 
William T."Billy the Kid" Kidd of Indianapolis 
was held in the Marion CountyJail yesterday after police said he kept four people at gunpoint and took a fifth person hostage following a discount store holdup. He was held in lieu of S6I,000 bond pending a Municipal Court hearing Wednesday afternoon. Kidd, 22, was released from prison recently after serving two years of a five-year sentence for robbery. Charges of confinement and robbery were pending. No one was injured in the incident. Ironically, Kidd was captured at a house next to the one ~is hostage ran to for help after being released, authorities said. The 35-minute incident began about 
2:30 p.m. Tuesday in a K-Mart on the city's far east side when security personnel confronted Kidd, accusing him of shoplifting. During questioning they allowed Kidd to go to a restroom. When he emerged, he had a .38-caliber revolver, a store spokesman sai~, and ran 50 yards aoss the parking lot to the Accent East Inn, a motel. There he waved the pistol at four people in the lobby, ordering them to wait by the front desk, police said. -AP 
Federal officialspicked through a swath ofdebris in a muddy cow pasture yesterday, investigating a plane crash that killed six members of a lebanon, Ky., family, their Hoosier pilot and an employee of the family business. The investigators, two from the Federal Aviation Administration and one from the National Transportation Board, said it probably would take until today to comb the debris. They said it might be three months before they had a report. The eight-passenger, twin-engine turboprop crashed on Cecil Moraja's farm Tuesday night while trying to land at the Lebanon-Springfield Airport in heavy fog, officials said. The plane went down about five miles north oflebanon, about a mile from the airport. The dead were identified as David Ball, 38, ofLebanon, presi­dent ofB&T energy Corp. in Louisville and owner ofa local gasoline and oil distributorship; his wife, Alice, 34; their children, Chad, 5, and Lance, 22 months, Mrs. Ball's parents, Owen Isaacs, 62, of Lebanon, and his wife, Louise, 61; John Robert Watts ofLouisville, an engineer for B&T Energy; and the pilot, Doug Baker, 31, ofCharles­town, Ind. -AP 
Rain likelytoday and tonight. Highs today in the mid 30s. Lows tonight in the low 30s. Mostly cloudy tomorrow. Highs in the upper 30s and low 40s. Chance for measurable precipitation 60 per­cent both today and tonight. -AP 

Thursday, February 18, 1982 :-page 2 
Good news and bad news 
Last week there were more than a few complaints 
voiced about apathy in the Notre Dame student body 
dections. Voter turnout percentages for both the initial 
dection and the subsequent runoff dipped down into 
the forties. Ifyou thought that was pretty sad, you ain't 
heard nothin' yet. 
Consider today's student body elections at Saint 
Mary's College. The election is not simply "boring" or 
"irrelevant," as some described last week's SBP cam­
paign, it is an example of a downright sickening new 
low in s~udent apathy on campus. Why? There is a situa­
tion that reminds me ofsome otherfateful electionslike 
Nyguen Van Theiu's campaign for President of South 
Vietnam in the early 70's, or the rubber-stamp 
"elections" held in communist-bloc countries. Only 
one ticket is running. 
The only candidates are Kathleen Murphy for Student 
Body President, Elaine Hocker for Vice President for 
Student Affairs, and Beth Tighe for Vice President for 
Academic Affairs. I am not in any way attacking these 
candidates; they are to be commended for having the 
guts to stand up and get involved enough to have their. 
names on the ballot. But what happened to the rest of 
tlile student body? 
Apathy among the ranks of voters is -a sad enough commentary on the pathetic condition of student politi­cal attitudes on campus, but tlilings really scrape the bot­tom ofthe barrel when a stu­..Qlent body the size of Saint • Mary's cannot come up with more than one candidate for three ofthe top positions-on campus. 
The problem runs deeper 
tlilan just a suggestion of a _lack of student concern: it also sends a message to the administration. How can we continue to point an accus­ing finger at the ad­ministrators of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's for not 
giving a damn about student life when it becomes more 
apparent with every instance ofone-ticket candidacies 
~nd low voter turnouts ihat mayt•:: the students really 
do not give a damn themselves any more about what 
happens? 
Well, I guess things could be worse-d~ere could be 
no candidates for office. Let's hope we never take that 
next step down the ladder ofapathy. 
For a change of pace, consider for a moment a 
campus institution that is working: the Notre Dame 
Placement Bureau. That busy but cramped office on the 
second floor of the Administration Building has been 
like a second home to me and thousands of other 
seniors over the years. The Class of 1982 was the first, 
however, to go through the rigors of job interviewing 
under a new computerized interview-scheduling sys­
t,em. 
Many would-be young executives had mixed feelings 
1ast fall when the new system was announced. On the 
one hand, there were those who breathed a collective 
sigh of relief, hoping that the computerized system would eliminate the need for camping out in the LaFortune Student Center the night before sign-ups for interviews. On the other hand, however, there were the hard-core capitalists who feared that they would lose their competitive edge in securing interviews to those who were just a bit less willing to spend a night on the floor ofthe LaFortune basement. 


A semester and a half of scheduling and hundreds of interviews later, the system has earned itself generally good marks for its performance. Despite an occasional interview not granted, or a mistaken name placed on the "blacklist" for having alleg~dly missed an interview, the entire setup has worked amazingly well. Those who desperately want to interview with a firm have the op­tion of utilizing one of the two priority interview re­
. quests allotted to students each semester. Most stu­dents have found that the Placement Bureau has managed to honor these re­quests; and even in the-event that someone did not make the schedule, the staff has been helpful in providing in­formation and assistance to students' willing to inter­view during breaks in the in­terviewer's schedule or at his/her room at the Morris Inn. The new system has also provided for a more 
v democratic way of ass~guing interv-i.ews -to students in aU colleges -not just.the busi­
•ness and engineering 
"throats" who . traditionally get most caught up_in the job 
The big complaint about the Placement Bureau, however, continues to pe its cramped quarters. The staff is doing an excellent job considering the facilities, but any studen~ who has tried to cram into the office and sign up for an interview on Monday or Tuesday at lunchtime, or who has had an interview in a voting booth in the LaFortune Ballroom, knows the Placement Bure:_~.u needs more space. 
'There may be some changes in that situation in the near future. Some rumors have it that the WNDU build­ing, soon to be vacated, will be offered to the placement bureau. The sources"certainly are not authoritative, and no decision has been made public yet on the future use , ofthe building, but there may be some hope in the fact that the idea is being discussed. The Placement Bureau is doing a good job and deserves a public commenda­tion, but it also deserves more space for the future. 
The views expressed in this column represent those of 
the authors, not necessarily those of the editorial policies ofThe Observer. 



Design Editor ....................... Monica Gugle Design Assistants .......... Mike McCaughey 
Applications are now 
Marilyn Larkin 
Layout Staff................................. Ed Carroll 
Joe Flowers 
Chuck Brady 
1. 
·being acceptedfor 
Typesetter ........................................ Al Novas 
BobJudge News Editor .................... Margaret Fosmoe Copy Editors ................................ Tim N.eely 
]ot: Must:meci B & T Layout"Senior Bar" Ver Berkmoes Sports Copy Editor .........:.... Chris Needles Typist.. .................................... )eanine Hynes 

EDITOR -in-CHIEF,
ND Day Editor............... Randy Goskowitz Ad Design ................................................ )ohn Photographer ............................ Rudy Perez Guest Appearances ......................... Victory 

DOME 1983
A Real Guest ( MBH) 
The Goalie 
The Rabbit 
"Take the train, Knuu:!" 
I 
The Observer (USPS 598 92{)) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except 
~ 
dunng exam and vacat1on penods. The' Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col­lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased tor $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntmg The Observer P 0 Box 0 


~ Interested persons should ptck up 
Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 The Observer IS a member of The 
~ information at Student Activities Office . 
Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 



l:~:=~~~4WuMW"»pNq~~d-#~ru¢k#§$ud~##dj 

The Observer Thursday, February 18, 1982 -page 3 
Arrests, fines 
Polish police continue 'sweep' 
WARSAW, Poland (AP)-Police detained 3,SOO people and fined an­other 7,000 for martial law viola­tions, the official PAP news agency said yestt;rday in reporting the big­gest dragnet since military rule was 
imposed in Poland.  
In  addition,  PAP  said  145,000  
people  were  warned,  29,000  
lectured,  and  4,000  sent  to  mis­ 

demeanor courts, and that 614 people still fdce police courts for martial law violations uncovered during the recent two-day sweep called "Operation Calm." 
PAP said 25,000 regular and volunteer policemen checked 5 I ,000 shops, 60,000 vehicles and 3500 hideouts for "criminal ele­ments," adding, "It can be stated on the basis of reports of police patrols that the state of obedience to exist· ing regulations of martial law is not the best." 
Radio Warsaw, monitored in Lon­don, said the raids were "carried out throughout Poland" and that many were conducted at night. It did not give the exact dates of the sweep, and it was unclear how many of those detained were still in custody. 
Before the latest action, authori­ties had repor~ed 4,000 people in detention since martial law was imposed Dec. 13, the independent union Solidarity suspended, and its leader Lech Walesa detained near Warsaw. 
The latest report indicated that all or some restrictions of martial law such as a ban on inter-city travel without permission, or a ban on pos­session of passports, may not be lifted as promised by the authorities last month. 
Gen. Wojciech jaruzelski, the martial law chief, along with other officials, have said most if nQt. all martial law restrictions may be lifted by the end of February if the situa­
tion remains calm.  
Meanwhile,  Deputy  Planning  
Commission  Chairman  Stanislaw  
Dlugosz  criticized  U.S.  sanctions  

against the martial law government. "It's apparent that the United 
States counts on the complete 
breakdown of our economy, 
followed by social dissatisfaction," 
he told PAP. 
Dlugosz said U.S. sanctions 
depriwd Polt:s of 170 tons of fish 
from American waters, and crippled 
the chicken breeding and producing 
industry which was dependent· on 
U.S. feed credits to purchase im­ported corn and soybeans. The at­tack coincided with new setbacks in the economy. PAP reported that Polish industrial production declined I7.S percent from Decem­ber toJanuary. 
The statistical office, however, reported an 8.8 percent hike in coal production, putting January output this year at I S.4 million tons ­above planned levels. 
Coal is Poland's must important hard currency earner, and the report of increased production may be seen favorably by Western bankers considering possible rescheduling of Poland's estimated $26. S billion debt to the West. 
Budget revision 

·Stockmru;ttestifies before Congress 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Besieged three-year tax cut. with criticism and apJlcals for com; But later, Stockman appeared to promise, the administration signaled back off somewhat on those two Congress Wednesday that there may issues. He told the panel that Reagan be some leeway in President feels,the tax code "isn't chiseled in Reagan's refusal to raise taxes or cut stone." With that, he pointed specifi­the IH percent Pentagon buildup in f, cally to the billions of dollars in tax 
his big-deficit budget for next year. 
A key · Democrat called the development "progress.-progress and hope" for a bipartisan revision of the embattled 5757.6-billon plan. 
At, first, the. oliv!! branch offered Ilouse Democrats by Budget Direc­tor David Stockman seemed rdati.vcly barren, even as he told the Bud)>:et Committee that the everall p:tckagt·· was not "the last word, the tln:tl solUtion." At that point, he reiterated, Reagan's insistence that the defense program be left intact· and that there bc: no reversal of his 
..... Q&A 
breaks which Congress added to the basic Reagan plan last year. 
Stockman invited the Congress to "take a look" at revenues, but not to "try to reverse the important and ~ndamc:ntal changes we've made" in personal and business tax reduc­tions1, .
1 
A~ for defense, Rep. Lcs Aspin, D­Wis., asked whether the president would :t<;ccpt a cut of S I 0 billion from the 5221 billion he slatt;P. for 
1 

the Pentagon. Stockman did not reject the idea outright; instead he said "there may be room for savings which we haven't found or that you may want to propose." 
Aspin said that while deeper cuts might be "devastating" to the defense budget, $8 billion to S I 0 bil­lion could be trimmed "without damaging national security severc­ly."Stockman did not dispute him. 
Rep. james Jones, D-Okla., the committee chairman, called Stbck­man's statements "progress progress and hope. I thought his tes­timony by Itself did give running room ·to allow a compromise tQ emerge.... " 
With Stockman in the witness chair, one Democrat after another had assailed Reagan for what House Majority LeaderJim Wright ofTexas called a non-ending cycle of "high interest rates, high UQ.employment rates, high deficits." 
But Wright and }lthers a!so ap­pealed for compromise. 
The budge_t direct9r said he was looking forward to suggestions from Congress "where genuine savings arc possible that we have not found." 
At the same time, Stockman told 
the committee that Reagan's 
economic program could not be 
blamed for the record deficits that 
arc forecast 
The new deli line at the South Dining Hall gives these students a more diverse lucheon menu to choose from.(Photo byRudyPerez) 
_thRee yea~s aqo, the stubentsor not~e Oame voteb ~o~ a umveQstty-wt6e Boycott o~ the p~ooucts o~ nestle, s.a., Because o~ that company's p~acttces m the lna~ketmq o~ m~ant ~o~mula m th thmo Wo~lo. On ma~ch 2, the stubents Will onceaqamB€ askeb to vote on whethen on not to 
exteno the Boycott. hea~ BOth SI0€S 0~ th€ ISSU€ 
the 1n~ant fORmula Oesate thu~sOay, ~€B. 18 7:30pm m the lm~any auOitORIUm reatURin(j SP€ak€RS fRom nestle, s.a. ano 1n~act (the ln~ant ~onmula Coalition) 
contlnUt•tl from page 1 '~, 
0

i It s comrng .... ..~ 
formt·d by the Senate ~o look at the 
quality of Leac.:hlng at Notre Dame. 
llopt>fully Bob and Lloyd will follow ·· ·· SeniOR l=oRmal 
up on that also. Thnc are things whic.:h require constant attcn­
"as t1me Goes By"
tion...the bigj.~est thing for the' SBP and SBVP is to keep aware of what the Mudents think arc problems. An· 
April17, 1982 
other thing is the further develop­
Palmer House Chicago
ment of the Senate...as an , organization that effectively deals 
Watch your mailbox or
with any student problems. 
Q: How have you organized 
LaFortune for details I
Burke's initiation into his duties as 
nd

nextyear's SBP? 
A: The reasons that we moved the elections up is so that there is a lar­ger lead time for Lloyd not only to get to know the: ropes, but to be able to set up his cabinet, to spend some time thinking about the Scnate...and meet the members of the Senate. Rather than have someone come in­to this office cold and not know what to do, I thought it would be wise to spend some time with him, to let him know the routine of the 
day... there are a lot of sibilitics in this office. I want to let Lloyd see what I have: done, let him see how I have: gone about doing it...show him who to go to at what times...who to avoid...how you go about getting things done. They have got to realize that if they want to do something in this office, you've got to play the game. I mean that they (the Administration) are call­ing the shots, so they are the ones that we have to deal with. 
????????71?????111???? 
FOR THE WEATHER OR WHATEVER. PUT YOUR FINGER ON THE FUN. 
CALL MICHIGAN'S 

WHAT'S LINES! 
TOLL FREE 
800·248·5708 
24-hour recorded messages keep you up-to-date on Michigan snow conditions. 

800-248·5700 
Our tra~el specialists .yill give you all you need to know about all there is to ski and do in Michigan. Call between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. E.S.T., Monday through Friday. 
MICHIGAN TRAVEL BUREAU 

' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '''''' ' ' ''' ' ' ' 
join us this sunday for our cabaret brunch 
classical music provided by the elkhart string quartet 
for reservations call259-9925 

r 
The Observer Thursday, February 18, 1982-page 4
'i 
'Overwhelmingly'
! 

UAW board approves concessions 

CHICAGO (AP) -The United Auto Workers' 225-member Ford Council voted overwhelmingly yes­terday to approve a tentative con· tract that would help save the automaker up to $1 billion, a local union president said. 
Only about 12 delegates dis· sented during-the standing vote, said Michael Whyte, president of Local I 324 in Ontario, Canada. 
The vote;: came at the end of a more than three-hour meeting by the council, made up of local union leaders from around the nation, and set the stage for the union's rank· and-file members to vote on the pact. 
Dissident UAW members had held a news conference before the coun· cil meeting to say they opposed uni· on President Douglas A. Fraser's proposal to approve the pact with Ford Motor Co. 
"The proposal is ludicrous," said AI Gardner, president of UAW Local 600, from a tool-and-die plant in Dearborn, Mich. "It gives the cor· poration a billion dollars and doesn't change anything. It won't save jobs and it won't lower car prices to help the consumer." 
Rank-and-file voting will take about two weeks, officials said. If ap· 

The challenge... 
Poet Richard Burns 
proved by members, the contract could take effect at once. 
The 31 -month contract, packed with worker concessions, includes elimination of the 3 percent annual productivity raises for hourly workers, nine-month deferral of cost-of-living allowance increases and dropping of paid personal holidays. 
Auto industry analysts estimate the pact would save up to If> 1 billion, but union and company officials refuse to confirm the estimate. Ford sais it lost more than If, 1 billion in. 1981. 
UAW Vice President Donald Eph· lin admitted yesterday that some jobs would be lost with the elimina­tion of workers' paid personal holidays. It has been estimated up to 3,000 jobs for fill-in employees would be eliminated. 
The agreement, reached Saturday after I 3 days of bargaining, offers at least 50 percent of base wages to laid-off Ford workers with I 5 years or more seniority and improved sup­plemental unemployment benefits to other laid-off workers. There would be a 24-month moratorium on plant closings due to sub­contracting of work to non-union and overseas facilities. 
Ford has 170,000 blue-collar workers, including 55,000 on in· definite layoff. 
Nutting meets with Salvadorian minister 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP) -Lt. Gen. Wallace H. Nutting, the senior U.S. Army commander in Latin America, met with El Sal· vador's defense minister yesterday to assess American aid to the beleaguered Salvadoran military. 
for those who dare... is at 
TRW 
TRW College Relations Bldg. R5/B196, Dept. N D 2/82 One Space Park Drive Redondo Beach, California 90278 
Challenge! Another reason why tomorrow is taking shape at a company·called TRW. 

~TRW 
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H 
U.S. Citizenship Required 
Challenge! For some, ifs a once-in-a-life-time experience. For others, like the professionals at TRW, ifs an everyday reality. 
These knowledge-intensive men and women operate as a team to reach the hi~hest pinnacles of technical excellence. They recognize the value 1Df the individual to the group effort in reaching the top in a variety of technical disciplines-From llarge data base software systems, communications spacecraft, and alternative energy sources to scientific satellites, high energy lasers, and microelectronics. 
So, if yolire a rugged individualist with a strong desire to pit your skills against complex technical problems, look into TRW. We'll give you the experi­ence you need tobecome an engineering pro­fessional of the highest calibre. 
Now that yolive mastered the basics and conquered one mountain, we invite you to scale ours. 

TRW will be on campus February 26 
to interview graduates in Engineering and Scientific disciplin~ at all degree levels. Contact the placement office to schedule your appointment, or write to: 
I 

In a related development, the Sal· vadoran military high command said only 28 leftist guerrillas were killed during a five-day army offensive last week in southeastern Usulutan province. A field commander in the operation had previously claimed 400 guerrillas killed. 
The command also denied reports that 400 peasants were massacred during the sweep. 
Nutting, head of the Panama­based Southern Command, arrived Tuesday following reports that the guerrillas were making headway in their 27-month war to overthrow the ruling civilian-military junta. 
Salvadoran officials said Nutting 

met  privately  yesterday  with  
Defense  Minister  Gen.  Jose  
Guillermo Garcia.  

A U.S. Embassy source, who asked anonymity for diplomatic reasons,' said Nutting would "assess the ef. fectiveness of our military assis· tance" during his three-day visit. 
He said Nutting "will visit places where our trainers are working with the Salvadorans" as well as meet with top military officials. 
The Reagan administration •an· nounced earlier this month that it was sending $55 million in emer· gency military aid to El Salvador's civilian-military junta, in addition to $25 million approved by Congress two months before. 
In addition, about 50 U.S. non­combat military advisers have been here since early 1981, helping train Salvadoran officers and troops in anti-guerrilla combat and servicing equipment. 1 
The Southern Command controls American military operations throughout Latin America, including lOll Salvador. 
The Reagan administration's an· nouncement of additional aid followed a daring guerrila raid Jan. 27 on the military Ilopango Airport outside San Salvador in which more than a dozen helicopters and plane were damaged or destroyed -half the junta's air force. 
Six Huey· I troop transport . helicopters already have arrived as the first replacements. 
The airport raid and an earlier guerrilla attack that isolated eastern El Salvador by destroying a main bridge over the Lempa River indi· cate the guerrillas' progress in their hit-and-run war. ' 
Western diplomats and relief workers, who asked anonymitY. for security reasons, estimated the guer· rillas move almost at will through 10 ofEJ Salvador's 15 provinces." 
The Reagan admmistration has said additional U.S. military aid is necessary to prevent a . leftist takeover of this Central American nation. 
The Observer Thursday, February 18, 1982 -page 5 
...Nestle 
continuedfrom page 1 
causal link between breastfeeding decisions and marketing practices. 
In May 1981 the World Health Or­ganization passed a non-binding code, by a I 18-1 margin, with three 
1abstentions, which requires infant formula manufacturers to curtail their marketing practices. The only negative vote was cast by the United States on the ground that the code was unconstitutional. The Justice Department later stated that the code was not unconstitutional since it was not a binding agreement. The code calls for the following as mini­mum standards: 
I. An end to the practice ofdis­tributing free samples to mothers and to health workers and institu­tions. 
2. 
An end to the professional service representatives (e.g., mot­hercraft nurses) and a ban on con­tact with mothers or pregnant women by marketing personnel. 

3. 
An end to "financial or material inducements" offered by manufacturers or distributors to health workers and their families to promote infant formula. 

4. 
An end to advertising and other forms of promotion to the general public by infant formula manufacturers-distributors. 


Said Nestle's Dr. Jackson, "Nestle complies with local legal structures developed to meet the needs of in­dividual countries. It will continue to do so. Every nation that voted for the code -and the 39 that did not -can enact the recommended code on its own. Whenever a code is enacted, we will follow it. Nestle will work with every nation in which it markets infant formula and will cooperate in the development of local codes, if so requested." 
Despite the claims by Nestle that the code is being followed, viola­tions arc still being reported. According to reports by IBFAN, the International Baby Food Action Net· work, numerous violations of the code throughout the world have oc-

The sun shines between the trees and casts a warm glow over the Calvary scene along the Stations of the Cross.(Photo by Ruqy Perez) 

DAYTONABEACH 
$195

Hurry! Last week to sign up1 (S50deposit) Includes: 
-round trip transportation on chartered bus 
-8 days, 7 nights in oceanfront hotel with pool-free party en route -poolside happy hour every day -one free happy hour -free shuttle up and down the strip 
Call-Joni 184-4708 or Anne 184-4634 
'IIIIIIIIUIIIIIIII11'41IIUJIIUUUIIIJIIIIIIIIII11111111"1''818811111•••tUUIJ.............IJIUhlllllllllliUIII___ 
DELIVERING to NOTRE DAME and SAINT MARY'S 
Goafather's Pizza® 
•' 
= 

larder the EXPRESS DEliVERY: 
Medium pepperoni, sausage, or combo and receiue quicker seruice . 
..................................................,_............ 
Driver has fresh pizza for sale on truck, 
r.J:I.Q.11R.S. ' 
i Mon.-Thurs. and Sun. 5PM -10:30 PM = Fri. and Sat. 5 PM · 11:30 AM
I

JIIIAI... 111M•••ee""''""'PPI'PIPPI""'ie"'"'llt't' ,.,,, I ""' ., MIIUieM' ' ......IIIIIIHIII.... 
curred. In September oflast year, for example, it was reported that free samples delivered every week by Nestle are given to each mother on discharge from rural maternity hospitals. In many countries, no changes in label information have been made. 
According to Tim Smith, Ex­ecutive Director of the Interfaith Center for Corporate Responsibility (ICCR), meetings held in late July of 1981 between Nestle's top policy makers and high-level church leaders revealed that Nestle will not adopt the W.H.O./UNICEF Code of Marketing of Breastmilk Substitutes as its own. "Both Mr. Paternot (Nestle's Executive Vice-Prt>sident) 


SMC Academic Council discusses Sr.comps 
ByJIM PLAMONDON 
News Staff 
The Saint Mary's Student Academic Council, a group which deals mainly with questions and problems concerning course cur­riculum, is considering changes in what is felt by some to be an unfair system of administering the senior comprehensives. 
The council, headed by Student Body Vice President Emmy Lopez, has received complaints from stu­dents who feel that some people must work much harder than others to pass the mandatory com­prehensives depending upon their major. The comprehensives are re­quired by each department for graduation. 
Student Body President Eileen Murphy feels that they are "inconsistent from department to department." In some majors a stu­dent is required to take three day dcpartmentals while in others she must complete a lengthy research and Mr. Furer (Chairman of the 

Board), made it explicitly clear in 
our talks that Nestle does not intend 
to adopt the W.H.O./UNICEF Code of Marketing as their own code of conduct, despite the stipulation in Article II of the Code that manufac­turers should regard themselves as required to implement the Code," said Smith. 
In 1978, the Notre Dame/St. Mary's community voted to boycott Nestle products. Notre Dame Food Services also participated in the boycott. In effect for two years, the boycott resolution was extended last year by the Student Affairs Bo}Wtt Gmn ittee . 
project. She added, "We need a 
more equitable system." 
An even greater problem is that some students do not even receive credit for their comprehensives while others do, depending on the students major. Specifically, art and music majors do not get credit, despite the hard work they must put into the comprehensives. 
Lopez says that there is " no con­tinuity between departments." She suggests there be a stipulation of continuity between each depart­ment, so that the comprehensives can be fairer and and so that all stu­dents receive credit for them. 
Mrs. Teresa Marcy, President of Academic Affairs, realizes that there is "considerable unevenness" in the senior comprehensives but feels it is up to the individual departments to correct it. 
The council presently is consider­ing making a booklet which would explain the philosophy of each major and exactly what is required ofa student in that major.
' 


Planning a spring break fling in 
Florida? Then make plans to live it up inside the Walt Disney World Magic 
• • • , Kingdom! There, you'll find more than 40 '',,,. exciting attractions ... and, we're in easy reach of the surf and sand of your favorite Florida beaches! This spring is an especially good time to "break down" to Disney, during Tencennial-the Walt Disney World 10th birthday celebration ... highlighted by the sensational Tencennial Parade, and all-new musical extravaganzas. So, give yourself a break ... a spring break to remember -inside the Magic Kingdom of Walt Disney World! 
$13-ADMISSION AND UNLIMITED USE OF ALL ATIRACTIONS (Except Shootin' Gallery) • 
SPECIAL EXTENDED SPRING HOURS March 7-12: 9 a.m.-9 p.m. March 13 -April 1: 9 a.m.-1 0 p.m. 
Wallili)11nayWorld.. 
@1882 W1tt Dl1ney ProdueliOnl 

----------------~--------------------------. 
Business & TechnologyThursday,February18,1982-page6 
EconomicUpdate 
Car sales fell4.8 percent in the first 10 days of February, the smallest decline this year. The General Motors Corporation, the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Corporation sold 15,370 cars daily in the nine selling days of the period this year, compared with 16,151 in the 10 selling days ofthe same 1981 period. GM reported the smallest sales decline of the domestic industry, selling 9, 792 ars daily, down four-tenths of 1 percent from the 1981 period when 9,834 cars were sold daily. G.M.'s sales totaled 88,131, for a 62 per­
cent share ofthe market, up from the 57.8 percent share held in the comparable 1981 period. "This is a very, very price-sensitive and price-conscious market and the G.M. experience really dramatizes it," said Arvid Jouppi, an analyst at Colin, Hochstin Company in Detroit. 

Marketing Update 
Sagging Selectavision salesare the reason the RCA Corporation yesterday cut the videodisk player's suggested retail price to 5349.95 from S499.95. Early sales of the players, in­troduced last March, have been disappointing. RCA had expected to sell 200,000 units in 1981 but sold only about 65,000 Total industry sales were estimated by RCA at 105,000 units last year. "There are competitive players out there at a lower price, and we must be com­petitive,"Said Frank McCann, a spokesman for RCA's consumer electronics division in Indianapolis. The price-cut, which could drop even lower because of dealer discounts, "comes as no surprise,"said John S. Reidy, an industry analyst with Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. "But there's still a marketing task ahead to convince the consumer he needs that technology." 
Pac-Man became a hitlast year in America's video game arcades by running around inside a little electronic maze eating dots. These days he could probably eat steak. He could also dance to his own record, "Pac-Man Fever," wear his own Pac-Man pajamas, and tie his shoes, if he had feet, with Pac-Man shoelaces. Although the Pac-Man game was the biggest seller in the $5 billion a year video game industry's briefhistory, the creature's performance in the sublicensing game, according to Stanley W.Jarocki, vice presi­dent for Marketing at Bally Corporation, makers of Pac-Man, will earn the company even more in the long run. "It's a cute creature with cute features," he said. "I don't think the novelty is going to wear off." 
Bud is still king.Anheuser-Busch Inc. has solidified its position as the nation's largest brewer. Last year, according to Emanuel Goldman of Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, Anheuser raised its market share to 29.5 percent from 27.8 percent, lengthen­ing its lead over Miller to eight points. 

Research Update 
The Reagan Administration'Splan to abolish the Department of Energy has met so much resistance in Congress that legislative approval ofsuch a measure seems unlikely this year. The main obstacle appears to be the strong opposition ofkey mem­bers of the ~ouse and Senate and the lack ofinterest by most other lawmakers in spending much effort on behalf of a measure that seems to have little political appeal and which would do virtually nothing to reduce the budget. 
Fetal studieSare revealing a new understanding of of how a mother affects her unborn child. The series of studies is based on nearly 60,000 births in the United States. The studies, which followed more pregnancies, and for longer periods, than had been done before, raise serious questions about the safety ofworking until the end ofpregnancy and explain how sexual intercourse, cigarette smoking, poor nutrition and advanced maternal age can com­promise the health and survival ofthe fetus. 
VOCATION RE1'REAT 
t~ help you consider the priesthood in the Congregation of Holy Cross 
~Friday  I  February 26 to SaturdayI February 27  
7:00 p.rtl .  1 2 : 00 p .m .  
i~[E Moreau Seminary  

-bycalling the Vocation Office 
· no·cost -,, 239-6385 
Despite being saddled with 1359 million dol­lars in debts, Sir Freddie Laker is not down yet. After his 'Skytrain' seroice folded last week stranding thousands of travelers, Laker received an outpouring ofsympathy and supportfrom the public and his employees. Late last week Laker was reportedly negotiating with Roland Rowland, a colorful British entrepreneur. Using 

Transit Freeze-ups 
Researcp. feels budget pinch 
Special toTbe Observer 
--···-­

Governmental agencies are not alone in feeling the pinch of the Reagan administration's budgetary concerns --at least one Notre Dame engineering research project is ex­periencing budget-related changes. 
The research and development project concerns cold weather tran­sit technology, and in spite of some HI ItFii t TI'Iffiiij 
program revamping, continues to 
progress in its search for a means of 
"thawing" mass transit systems often 
rendered inoperable by severe win­
ter weather. 
One of the major changes in the 
project reduces its level ofeffort un­
der 1981 funding to spread the cost 
over a two-year period, thereby 
eliminating additional funding from 
the government's 1982 fiscal year 
budget. The project was initially 
proposed to Congress for funding 
approval over four years. In addi­
tion, the change in the Department 
ofTransportation's focus to develop 
problem-solution technologies for 
use in the near future by existing 
transit systems also led to a search 
for rail systems applications rather 
that those related to automated 
guideway systems. 
Congress approved second-year 
funds in its 1981 transportation ap­
propriations bill at the same level as 
the first year ( 55.5 million ) and the 
grant has been received from the Ur­
ban Mass Transportation Ad­
ministration (UMTA).. Total project 
funding now stands at 51 1 million, 
the halfway point of the original 
program. 
The engineering research is done by Notre Dame faculty who coor­dinate their efforts with the Vought Corporation, which does the 
Rowland's money, Lakerhopes to starta "People's Skytrain' seroicefromNew York to London using some ofhis now repossesed DC -1Os like the one pictured above. One major obstacle to Laker could be Britain's CivilAviation Authority which issues operating licenses. The authority takes into account a personsfinancial past before granting a license. 
engineering test and development. 
With the change in focus, final progress reports are being prepared for some of the work conducted in the first phase of research. Subjects included in those reports are the character of iceophobic materials for traction, studies on the coeffi­cient of friction and rolling friction for rubber-tired vehicles, and the development ofspecial wind tunnel facilities. 
As the second phase of work 
begins, research efforts will em­
phasize problems encountered by 
buses and commuter rail systems 
used in metropolitan areas. Work 
will continue with the goal of 
determining the physical properties 
of the interface between ice, snow, 
and the electrified rails oftransit sys­
tems. 

Researchers will also study pos­sible precursors that may signal initial frost formation that can inter­rupt the electrical power transfer between the rail and the vehicle, thus shutting down the system. Ifan effective system can be developed, it ·may serve as the preventive medicine to eliminate system shut­down by allowing a signal through the rail to notify the operator that frost is forming and that counter­measures should be used. 

Studies are also continuing to ·determine the amount ofenergy and technology needed to remove ice and packed snow from the rails. The use of advanced technologies, including radio frequency induc­tion, microwave, sonics, and hydroblast, are being studied to determine when and where they would be most beneficial. 
The practical application of the Notre Dame research is being carried out by the Vought Corpora­tion of Texas. Vought researchers will work with two existing transit authorities to test the effectiveness of devices such as bus wheel-well liners to prevent buildup of ice and snow and an air drying system to prevent the freezing of condensa­tion in drive motors to cut down on costly motor repair and replace­ment. 
In spite of the reduced pace, Notre Dame's cold weather transit technology program is now aimed at producing useful solutions more quickly, while at the same time the government put a lid on the federal budget. 
A Reminder frO"m 
SELECfiVE SERVICE 
If you are a male citizen. or alien res1ding in tl'le U S . you must register with Selective Service within 30 days of your 18th 
birthday. 
If you were born in 1960, 61, 62 or 63 you should already hav.e registered. If you have not. you should do so as soon as possible. There is a grace period for late registrations without penalty in effect through February 28. 
1982 
You may register at any U.S. 
Post Office 
Selective Service System 
Registration Information Bureau Washington, D.C. 20435 


Editorials 

P.O.BoxQ. 
Dear Editor; We at Nestle a;e ap­
palled, dismayed and outraged at the 
lies and half-truths that have been 
published as fact in The Observer 
about our company's marketing 
practices. An example of a lie is the 
statement that Nestle advertises in­
fant formula in the Third World--this 
company does not and has not for 
more than three years--an easily as­
certainable fact. A half-truth is the 
quotation about bottle-fed infants 
and their relative mortality rate. 
What was unsaid, however, is that only approximately five percent of bottle fed babies are fed exclusively infant formula from those bottles. 
A university has a commitment to truth and objectivity. That commit­ment is sullied when complex issues arc viewed with a built-in bias that takes the statements of some par­tisans at face value and automatically doubts others. 
The fact is that all recognized 
Nestle replies to WH Carticle 
health authorities and organizations, Representatives held hearings on the special needs Nestle will continually 
including the World Health Or­code and asked to hear from infant update its marketing practices to ganization, arc agreed that there is an formula manufacturers. Although ensure its full compliance with local important--in fact vital--need for in­Nestle is a Swiss firm and does not requirements. 
fant formula in undeveloped nations. manufacture, distribute or sell infant Nestle has not advertised its infant Nestle tries to fill that need with formula in the United States it was formula t to consumers in developing quality infant formula. honored to testify at those hearings. countries since 1978. It does not give 
During the last decade, concern Nestle testified that it fully sup­samples of infant formula to mothers grew about the marketing pracctices ports the aim and principles of the and it does not promote infant for­of companies selling infant formula WHO Recommended Code and will mula to mothers and it does not 
in the Third World. Nestle joined make every effort to follow it as it is promote infant formula to UNICEF and others in calling for a adapted by each nation in which we prospective consumers. It does, of meeting of the World Health As­market infant formula. course, work closely with the health sembly to discuss various ways to en­Since then Nestle has worked . professions to ensure that the nature courage breast feeding and review closely with individu~l governments and properties of each individual in­marketing practices. as they strive to develop their regula­fant formula are understood by health 
Eventually, after several drafts, tion of infant formula marketing and, care professionals. the World Health Organization of course, completely obeys the laws Under the WHO code an organiza­developed a recommended code of in every nation that has a code cover­tion or individual having knowledge 
marketing for breast milk substitutes ing the marketing of infant formula. of a marketing practice not in con­and presented it to the World Health The WHO code process is a formity with the WHO code or the Assembly. Th.:re, in May, 1981, the dynamic and continuing one and has­local law is required to notify the for­code was adopted as a recommenda­
another 16 months to run. As each mula manufacturer and the local tion to all nations. 
nation and its health professionals government of that marketing Shortly after the adoption of the 
work to adapt the WHO recom­practice. code the U.S. House of mendations to their individual and Any individual who alleges that Nestle is marketing infant formula in a manner either prohibited by a local code, or, in the absence of a local code, the WHO recommendations, and has not notified Nestle of their grievances since the adoption of the code in May. 
Nestle pledged its support for the WHO recommended code im­mediately after its adoption and now tries very hard to live and work with­in the limits of that code. 
We have agreed to have our marketing practices examined by reputable organizations and indeed are working closely with several major religious denominations in this regard. The time for reckless emotionalism and hyperbole has passed. The health of infants in the Third World will be helped by con­crete action!Y; not extremist rhetoric. 
Rafael Pagan President Nestle Coordi11ation Cen­ter for Nutrition, Inc 
neither should be the terms of the 
contract, given the dismal economic 
and industry conditions. 
Fact after fact, statistic after statis­tic reiterates the worsening economy. We are in the midst of a recession that has put 9.5 million Americans out of work, pushing the January unemployment rate to over 9 percent. The gross national product declined 5.2 percent during the final quarter of 1981 and Treasury Secretary, Donald Regan, predicts the GNP will continue to decline. Last years housing starts, a key in­dicator of economic strength, reached a 35 year low, and interest rates continue to soar to record heights. The Commerce Department recently issued a report claiming im­provements signalin the economic 
the other to cry uncle." Gone arc the days when both labor and managment could afford lengthy, costly work stoppages, demanding much and giving little. Industry slump has made the inherent depen­dency of labor and managment on one another recognized again, as well as the necessity tp agree to con­cessions. 
In addition to the Ford agreement, other recent labor agreements typify the new cooperative relationship. Unions seem to be willing to sacrifice the wage gains they, often, bitterly fought for, in return for assurances of job security. In radical contrast to the Teamsters-trucking company con­tracts of three years ago (guaranteeing a 35 percent pay raise) 

The proposed labor agreement. awaiting rank and tile approval, be­tween the Ford Motor Company and the United Auto Workers, should challenge beliefs that 'the labor uni­ons are ruining this country' with their excessive demands. In the midst of an industry slump and with an eye on dismal economic realities, labor unions are taking a responsible attitude in current bargaining ses­sions. Job security, not wages, is the top demand of labor. 
Provisions of the Ford contract in­clude a 31 month wage freeze and a nine month freeze on cost of living pay increases. The union also relin­quished 26 personal holidays over a three-year period. In return, Ford agreed to a two-year moratorium on plant closings which resl!lt ff!J~ sub­contracting of work to nonunion or foreign sources. In addition, Ford will guarantee 50 percent of the pay of laid off workers with 15 years or more seniority. 
UAW President, Douglas Fraser, as would any self-respecting union leader, termed the agreement his­toric. His remark may not be unex­pected, given his position, but recovery is 'just around the corner.' Well, having heard that song so many times before it begins to sound like a bad version ofan old joke: How do you know the Commerce Depart­ment is crazy? They work in round rooms yelling Recovery is around the comer. 
Like most old jokes, it's not very funny anymore. Union leaders cer­tainly aren't laughing. Despite the administrations rhetoric about a bright future, they are keenly aware of the dark economic realities of the present. Ford Motor Co. lost one bil­lion dollars last year and closed four plants. American Motor Corp. has lost some $300 million over the past two years, and as of January, General Motors has laid off 349,000 workers and closed 21 plants. Finally, American-made new car sales have dropped by approximately 3 million units over the past three years while import sales continue to rise. 
Labor-managment relations are undergoing changes. It is no longer a case of the biggest and the strongest holding back, detiantly, waiting for 

Editorial Board
==:thenbserYer.== 
Editor-in-Cbief.....................~·······.john McGrath Founded November 3,1966 
ExecutiVP News Editor.................... ... Kelli Flint ,ports Editor.............................. Skip Desjardin 
The Observer is• an independent newspaper published by the students of the News Editor............................. David Rickabaugh Photo Editor ..................................... .John ~a.£~ University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily ~~W'c;:' Executil'e Editor........... :\tary Agnes Carey Editorials Editor...................... .\nthonv Walton reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­SMC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico Features h·auor ··············~· ........Gre2ory Swiercz ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views Department Managers of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
Business Manager ......................... Rich Coppola Production Manager................... Michael Monk 
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encoun.ged. 
Controller .............................................joe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom Maclennan Advertising Manager .......................Chris Owen 5_ystems Manager ·~·························Bruce Oakley •
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
]
.. 

~ 
~ 
I ! 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
~ 
I 
i 
L
-
Sports Bri~/J 
Thursday, FeJruary 18, 1982 -page 8 
==~B;y~Th~e~O~b:se~rv:~~a~n~d~Th~e~A~ss;o~ci;at;.ffl;P~r;es;s=======:=::==:=::=:::::::::=::::::=:::::::::li~.~;\.;(;J~;;T~I:;~~fl~jl;:L~L~t~~-~=~~=:d 
Michigan basketballtickets are still available at the second floor ticket office at the ACC. The game will be held in the Silverdome in Pontiac, Mich., on Sunday, March 7. Tickets are pric(:d at $4 and S6. -·The Observ~ 
Cross-country skiiing is sweeping the campus. 1t is fun, good exercise and it's also easy to learn. The office of Non­Varsity Athletics is sponsoring a learn-to-ski weekend for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. For details, call 239-5100. -The 
Observ~ 

The Colorado Ski Trip is approaching quickly. All those who will need a ride out to Steamboat Springs must attend a meeting on Wednesday, March 24 at 6:45 p.m. in the lobby of the Student Union office, second floor LaFortune. Those not present will be assumed to have found their own way out there. If there are any problems, call Kevin at 239-7605. -The Observ~ 
Softball .practice continues for the Notre Dame women's team tonight at 9:30 in the ACC Fieldhouse. New members are welcome. For more information, contact Karen at 7 401. -The Observ~ 
The Student Managers Organization needs freshman participation. Interested freshmen should contact the Manager's office this week between 2-6 p.m. at 239-6482. -The Observ~ 
ND-SMC ski team members are encouraged to attend the regional championships this weekend at Crystal Mountain, Mich. Call one ofthe following people by today to inform them ifyou plan to attend: Sue Hull (1674), Nancy Sheft (284-4996), Steve Hilbert ( 3659) or Barry Tharp ( 15 70) -The Observer 
NOTE: Results must be reported to the NVA office by the follow1ng Wednesday at 1 p.m. If your name IS not listed, you have a bye and should look for your new pa1nng the followmg week. 
Men"aDoublea Harman (1133)'oMacDonnell (1029) v. Pineda (8717')'oShank (8717) Jensen (7838)'oKahale (7838) v. Schmit (8908)'oWolf (8900) Power (3308l'oSimpson (3370) v. Jak t op1n (8170j'oCiifford (8164) O'Brien (1248j'oHatlield (1171) v. Milia (8765j'oBaroody (8767) Pierce (1424'}'oPfan (1432) v. Hannagan (8934'}'oSelentik Caterina (1621')'oOiiver (6801) v. Fullmer 
(3203)'oFatum (3189) Raster (1818)'oHogan (1816) v. LaChance (8175j'oSteiglmeier (8273) Keenehan (8255)'oPoczobun (8264) v. Mulligan 
(3345j'oCallahan (3361) 
Heinzman (3200j'oAnsan v. Hearney (3113)'oSieeth (3177) Creps (8579)'oMeeker (8531) v. Kalvacll'oPacko 
(1688) Muccio (1142')'oPuzak v. Burton (8284'}'oBruggeman (8292) 
See BOARD, page 10 

Classifieds  The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail.  
Need MANY DePaul G.A. ·s. I'll do almost CAMPUS VIEW APT AVAILABLE FOR GUESS WHAT COLLEGE anything to get them. Call Dan at 8608NOTICES SUMMER. 1 BEDROOM, FURNISHED NEWSPAPER STAFF LUSTS AFTER A anyt1me. (INCLUDING DISHWASHER); ACCESS CERTAIN PETITE, BLOND, NEWS As­. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .... . TO POOL, AND MORE. CALL JO: 277­SISTANT ...? MORE ON THIS LATER. Professional Typing Service For Notre NEED DEPAUL TICKETS!! Will pay$$$ 0884 Dame/St. Marys Students 24 hour ffor up to 8 GA's, Call JOHN 3430 Southern Comfort, eh? Hmmm. . Maybeservice $.75-$1.00 per page. Call Randy 4 bdrm house tor rent. North shore.$275 it won't be such a lonely weekend after (239-7735) Got ROYALLY PIMPED at the LoHery. mo. utilities incl. Available Summer alii! Need 4 (FOUR) tickets to the MORRISON and/or fall 1982. Parkovash. Call PaHy love,OVERSEAS JOBS -Summer/year SCHWARTZER and the TOXIC (319) 322-8735 call refunded YHGLDE round. Europe, S. Amer, Australia, Asia. WASTES Concert on March 3. Will pay P.S. It's ALWAYS wonderful in Washing­All fields. $5Q0-$1200 monthly. Sightsee­mega-mondo-b1g bucks. Call D. Free rent: house for faculty for summer: ton. ing. Free info. Write IJC, Box 52-IN4, Treemont 9567. call PaHy (319) 322-8735 call r.efunded. Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. ?IRRESPONSIBILITY?Alum from Chicago needs 2 DePaul GA When you sayDID YOU CALL THE AIRLINES FOR tix Will pay top dollar Call Charlie at 8214 Available march 15th tor rent, 4 bedroom, NOONAN • YOUR SPRING BREAK RESERVA­2 bathroom, maintenance free house. BOTTUM TIONS?PICK UP YOUR TICKET AT 1ST $300 per month, plus $300 deposit.Call GUNNING SOURCE TRAVEL. SAINT MARY'S-­233-2547 for appointment. SHEEDY 5606 ND--7080 I. LOST/FOUND I You've sa1d our names. To kick off our campaign, a happy-~ourLooking for a truly portable, yet powerful, , will be sponsered in New SMC Library on personal computer? See THE OS. LOST: GOLD & PEARL FLOWER Febiuary ~9, 1982.BORNE 1, 64K, dual 1OOK disk dnves, CHARM FROM A NECKLACE. Lost be­WANTED complete software package. $1795. tween Farley and the Law School. If FOURWAY COMPUTER PRODUCTS found, please call Phyllis -6844. (Across from North Village Mall). 277­REWARD. Need ride to Houston Texas, for spring . 7720 break. If you are headed in that direction To the girl in the LONG BLACK COAT. You made my TRA'IISPO trip ·sATUR­LOST 1PR. XL DARK BLUE SKI please call Timo at 1782. The TIDE is rollin' in th1s Fnday The DAY fun. I w1shl could've met' you. GLOVES IN EG. AUD. MONDAY NIGHT Punks will be there Will you? The guy in the BLUE HAT. PLEASE CALL SEAN 1416 TYPING 28 years as a secretary. Excel­lent typist -retired. $1.00 per page. Call ATTENTION: URGENTLY need to LOST: IN 109 O'SHAG, BLUE BOOK­Phyllis 259-2501. locate wltneaa to an automobile acci­Mouse,SACK WITH ALL MY NOTES & BOOKS. dent on October 10 at 7:30 pm (day of Does hiHing 19 first mean you'll be the first PLEASE WHOEVER PICKED IT UP, RIDE NEEDED TO HOUSTON TEX-FOR the Florida State Game). The accident at everything? Happy B-day! We loveGET IN TOUCH WITH STEVE SPRING BREAI<---WILL SHARE USUAL occurred on Cleveland Road, Weal of you!BURKART. TEL. 3121. CALL CHRIS AT 1678 ANYTIME. Juniper, near Oakmont Park aubdlvl­Annamal, Placenta, MJ alon. Pleaaa contact Volunteer LOST: BROWN TWEED WOOL SCARF I NEED RIDE TO INDIANAPOLIS. Services, X7308 II you have any In­at NO-MAINE game Jan. 27 in section LEAVE 2/19 ANYTIME; RTRN 2/21 formation. The ESOPHAGUS CONSTRICTORS108 of the bleachers. If found please call CALL BILL at 7289 shall return. Ross at 1898. .MORRISON SCHWARTZER AND THE TOXIC WASTES are com1ng to FOUND-one key on key chain outside NOTRE DAME ....MARCH 3 AT THE gate 5 of AC.C. on Feb. 10th. Need RIDE to Madison, Ws. Feb. 26-28ACC. . .Morrison is the proponent of the thriving new genre of Will Share usual. Karen 7991 LOST: Green plaid. scarf. Last seen han~ Zarro I,music ..MICROWAVE ROCK! Tickets g1ng on the ·wire fence in front of Bad1n Happy B-Day Star! Your wish is myare not availible at the bcX office. Need ride to/from Madison, WI area tor Hall around 5:30p.m. If you happened to weekend of 2/19-2/21 Share expenses command on your big day!! pick it up, please call Karen Kosteck y 8837 Love ya, HEAR YE, HEAR YE, HEAR YE: ANN 8162. Zarro IIBOURJAILY, THE TALENTED AND LOVELY PIANIST, WILL PERFORM I need a nde to West LafayeHe (Purdue) ,Los): on Friday the 19th. Call Ed at 1582.LIVE AND IN CONCERT THIS SUNDAY Texas Instruments 51-55 calculator in HONEY-CHAN,HONTOO Nl AIS­AT 3 P.M. IN MOREAU HALL'S LITTLE the engineering auditorium during last HITERU.OTANJOOB! OMEDETOOTHEATRE. SAINT MARY'S. BE THERE. semester's finals. My name is scratched GOZAIMASU.ALREADY 2 & 20(MYALOHA. in on the back. Please return. John at8641 Neeif ride to Washington, D.C lor spring OLDER WOMAN( LADY)) bk. call Faa1z at 8695POTTERY SALE---Friday LAFortune HELP! 4 STUDENT OR GA DEPAUL TIX Found: a theology book on south quad on PHiLADELPHiA:· ALLENTOWN:··:r·REN: NEEDED! CALL JODI (SMC)4697 2/14. Call Tom at 3176 after 10 pm to TONI R1de needed tor spr. brk. Call Mike identify. at 1386 fast! Looking for a truly portable, yet powerful FOR SALE personal computer? See The Oabornel, FOUND: Pair of Contact lens near mam NEED RIDE from U of I Champaign to NO 64K, dual tOOK disk drives, plus $1400 circle. Call Ted at 1187.USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought, for DePaul weekend. If you know of worth of software, all for $1795. FOUR­sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. anyone com1ng up, please call Marya, WAY COMPUTER PRODUCTS (AcrossLOST: A BLUE AUSTRIAN LODENTues-Sunday,12-6.1027E. Wayne(One 3846 • from North Village Mall). 277-7720. boock south of Eddy-Jefferson intersec­COAT AT BRIDGET'S ON THURSDAY NIGHT. REWARD!!!! CALL MARY ATtion.) NEED RIDE TO NORTHERN ILLINOIS She's cool ...she's wild .. she's 284-4762. UNIVERSITY (DEKALB) OR CHICAGO talented ..she's ANN BOURJAILYIII Turntable: DUAL 1241S-only 3 yrs. AREA ON FEB.19-21. PLEASE CALL Come and watch her perform Sunday,LOST: I lost my morals on Sat. mte. Ifold, one owner, call Jim at 277-2349 4524(SMC). Feb. 21, at 3 p.m. in SMC's LiH!e Theatre, found, contaet GARY the STUD. in 301 Moreau Hall. Will YOU be there???? Dillon NEED RIDE TO PENN ST. ANY WEEKEND. Call Michael233-2969. We're not talkin' FLORIDA Beaches LOST: From Student Government Office, We're not talkin· CALIFORNIA BeachesTICKETS one decorator plant 1n gold pot. Two cat­Need nde to Ft. Walton Beach, FL for We're not even talk1n GEORGIA tails, one lavender silk flower i'l,POt. Per­spnng break. Share usual. Desperate!! Beaches We're talk1n' PUNK Beaches sonal value. If found, please call Margaret Call Tim at 6759.·························-····· at 7668. Thank You. I will give ANYTHING for 1 or 2 GA's to Is there any chance of escaping this DEPAUL. Please call Alex at 6931. beautiful South Bend February? A couple Lost-Whoever borrowed the scale from of Punks are go1ng to try th1s Friday. They the F1eld House please return it as it IS cru­KAPLAN MCAT and other MCAAT books WILL PAY MEGA BUCKS FOR SIX (6) may not make the sun shine outside, but 1t cial to work ongoing there. No Questions. for sale. Call4530 (SMC). DEPAUL GA'S FOR BIOLOGY TEAC­sure as Hell IS go1ng to be sunny ins1del, HER ARRIVING THE 27TH CALL Come JOin the fun! TERESA AT 41-4489 LOST: GOLD CHAIN. Extreme sentimen­HELP! Need nde to and from Massachu­tal value. If found please call Mark-3895­seHs for spnng break. Call4530 (SMC). What do Debbie Harry. Johnny Rot­REWARD. Thanx.I would give an ARM AND A LEG for -ten, and Chrissie Hynds have 1n com­We need someone to build a bar for PE'sDEPAUL GA'S Call Alex at 6931. mon? Come to THE party and find out! LOST: A 14K GOLD CROSS FROM A party room. Interested? call 4420. NECKLACE: IN GYM 1 OF ACC. IFDesperately need 2· to 4 G.A. t1x to DE NEED RIDE HOME FOR FOUND PLEASE CALL 283-1772. THIS Must deliver bananas to my UnclePAUL game. Call Peter at 8456. SPRINGBREAK TO NORWALK, CT OR IS OF GREAT VALUE TO ME. Bonzo in Washington D.C. I need a nde NEW YORK CITY AREA. CALL MATT­lhere anytime, any weekend. I will shareNeed up to 5 DePaul G.A. tickets. Call 1026 John at 1391. LOST: A SIZB 42xl London Fog overcoat driving and dnnk1ng expenses. I can even at Erskin C.C. last Saturday night. I have offer amus1ng conversation, unless you NEED RIDE TO SYRAI.,;JSE OR UTTICA your 44xreg coat. Call EmmeH at 234­like Silence. in wh1ch case I'll shut up and I Need 2 or 3 GA,S FOR DE PAUL PLS. FOR SPRINGBREAK --IS ON THE WAY 6298 count pigs through Oh10. If you're dnv1ngCALL JIM X8771 TO BOSTON ­WILL SHARE USUALS. to D.C. g1ve me (Ryan) a call at 272­CALL BRIAN 1026. B158 day or n1ght.I NEED TWO DEPAUL GA TICKETS PLEASE CALL TIM ANY AFTERNOON NORMA, here IS the personal you ve al­AT 1377 ways wanted: Jim Morr1son hves: Go Go's[~oR RENT I ,...--­..... ------. forever; With all 1ts Shdm, drudgery, and Need 3 DePaul tix badly. W11t pay broken dreams 1t is st1ll a beautiful world. megabucks. call Peg at 3723. -T1me away from home JUSt makes you Available for next school year and sum-I PERSONALS I apprec1ate 1t more. so SMILE! HELP!! I DESPERATELY NEED 2 mer -two f1ve bedroom houses. 2Rose G1ver DEPAUL GA'SI! CALL BOB AT 1647 234-2626. Call Alex. He's Awesome.  ··················· Dear Regina North, SWINE FEVER! SWINE FEV.ER! SWINE Your time has come. Awesome. After 6 FEVER! CATCH ITI!I p.m. tonight the MAN is gomg to be available. Awesome. Like rich men? He's wt.~,·;~. i:iici. ~~'d .REo -~~.;··~~~~-i~·t;;; rich and successful enough not to worry DEAD? Dillon Hockey about living 1n New Jersey. Awesome. Like good-looking men? He's rich and successful enough not to worry abcut ppliving in New Jersey. Awesome. He likes Thanks for adding some "color" to my life.lov1ng, sensual, yet tough women. I'll give you a masterpiece as soon as 1Women who aren't scared to hit back. learn to stay in the lines. Have a "SweetWomen hard enough to make him feel like Thursday"a man. Awesome. He's ....Awesome. your grateful S. S. He's 5-leet, 1 0-inches of JOgging, sweat· ing, and macho masculinity. Awesome. Want this man?~Can't blame you a bit. To my fav01rte day editor and UMOCHe's awesome and available. After 6 p.m. choice: Forget the wine and send metonight. The MAN, that New Jersey Sex some "southern comfort" -R's going toMachine. Alexander J. Glockner Ill. be a long, lonely weekend! Awesome. Call him Alex. Call him often. the yellow roseCall him AWESOME. Call him at 283­ps. Wash1ngton was WONDERFUL!!!3258. Ask for Alex. AWESOME. Call if you're wpinan enough. AWESOME. ATIENTION '79-80 2S & 4N Regina-ites and 80-81 3S & 4S Regina-rtes-Tricia The ESOPHAGUS CONSTRICTORS Burke & Barb Schmuckal are back in town shall return. and want you to come to a reunion this ....................................... c ••.. Sun. Feb. 21 SMC Clubhouse 2:30-4:30 WHO'LL BE THE LUCKY WINNER OF BYOM (bring your own munchies) -It'll $100 IN ALBUMS? Tune into AM-64 for be good t1mes! Be there, y'alll the results of our BIRTHDAY BONANZA-­drawing will be Thursday, Feb. 18 at Donna Marie­10:00 p.m. on THE ALTERNATIVE, We're in the mountains walking -only WSND. meadows and rolling hills ahead. I believe in you. You can do it -Good Luck BIG RED tonight. Relax and be yourself. Just keep 'KING TA 'DAS DILLON CATCHES walking. SWINE FEVER i love you Armand LD-Biack eyes are cute too. ODE TO THE DILLON 'SHA 'GAS Led to A KNIGHT AT THE PUB .... A K of C slaughter? I th1nk not. HOLY CROSS is PARTY THIS FRIDAY AT 9 much too hot. Dillon Hall is out of luck. Watch Big Red just eat the puck. THE ONLY PARTY ON CAMPUS THIS Tbursday mght with all the rest They'll see WEEKEND IS AT THE K of C.. A the HOGS are simply best. Rola1ds is a KNIGHT AT THE PUB CHECK IT OUT good reliever, But nothing known can cure THIS FRIDAY SWINE FEVER. On the ICe the herd will swarm From Best to Daly to Bill Tone. Arm." And I think we'll prove to you That 'TO...A.. CE"RTA,·N· McCHtcK.:...i.. b;t·..~·y HOLY CROSS is T-S and WOO. message was beHer. Thanks again! Dear Regina North: This is your chance. Starting at 6 p.m. Big Red is dead. HOLY CROSS IS NUM­tonight, the man IS finally available. That's BER ONE. right. THE man. Alexander J. Glockner Ill. Awesome. L1ke rich guys? He's rich and Thursday: See Dillon eat 'ta, catch -. successful enough to not worry abcut SWINE FEVER, and die. HOG HOCKEY living in New Jersey. Awesome. Like AT ITS BEST, Thursday at the ACC good looking guys? He's rich and suc­cessful enough to not worry abcut living in MaryS. New Jersey. Awesome. L1ke guys who The medal still works long-distance. Even won't take sh--from anybcdy, including after UCLA. Don't forget it tonight. Talk to his women? Awesome. you when I get back. See you Friday. RICh The Hockey Man The Society lor Craatlve . Did you miss the Christmas sate too? Anachronlsmw1ll hold an organizational POTIERY SALE FRI., LaFortune. meeting next Thursday, Feb 25 1n ................................................................ LaFortune liH!e theater. For Information Hoowdboots: Muskrats are here to stay. call Deirdre at 8013 or Kent at 232-1685. Watch your cookies! The meeting will be at 7 p.m. All are welcome! Rick and Bob: Thanks for the $ t. 75 .. Yours, To the B1g Spenders-Tom & Mike: The the hungry of the world guys from St. Eds, We really like. Thanks for the flowers on Valentine's Day, We Judge not. and so yourself shall not be end this here, for what else can we say? judged. Love, Weeble and Reets ...................... .... ................. to BRP 1n 153 Cav.: Just because the message may never be rece1ved does not Meg, mean 11 IS not worth sending. Your energy level may not be h1gh -But ···························································· we love you more as each day goes by. TO: Jenn1e C. and Linda J. Have a great S!eepmg, we know is 1nhib~1ve to your day! you are the greatest room1es (see, style -and we're all hop1ng you'll be bener your own personal.) 1n a short wh1/e. • Chuck misses you at prachce each day­AND THE LORD SAID: H1s InSpiration IS gone & 1n the p1t he'll From th1s day on, the SNAKE shall crawl stay! on hiS belly at the feet of the woman.. All I know IS, its your company 1m1ss -As THE GOSPEL ACCORDING TO SR. each weekend I enter alone 1nto Bhss. PATTY So get bener Meg, cuz Flonda awa1ts, Sun bath1ng 't1! dusk & bars 'hi 4. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . '. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . As the TRIO hits Ft. Lauderdale -­A STANLEY KUBRICK'S A CLOCKWORK surpnse IS in store! ORANGE THIS SAT. NITE IN ENG. AUD. Guess Who? 79:3012 Suzanne: Tricla You may like my b,eds1de manner, bt wa1t How about next fnday mght? Can n unt1! you see my carrot patch. match/as! fnday n1ght? Ryan PARTY DAVE  


The Observer -Sports Thursday, February 18, 1982 -page"9 
Irish wrestlers crush Anderson 
By BRIAN REIMER took a forfeit and Shawn Moloney 
Sports Writer won an exciting 177-pound match 
over Day Coliltas, 6-4. Matt Stramm 
The Notre Dame wn:stling team received a forfeit at 190 pounds and 
overpowered Anderson S 1-6 last heavyweight Larry Kissner closed 
night at the ACC Pit. Coupled with a the match with a first period pin 
forfeit win over the University of against Mike Grenert. 
Cincinnati, which was unable to This Saturday, the Irish close the 
makl· the trip to South Bend, the vic­regular season with a triangular 
tory raised Notre Dame's record to against Taylor and Siena Heights at 
13-2-1. I :30 p.m. in the ACC Pit. Notre 
Mitch Moore of Anderson put his Dame can end its season with the 
team ahead with a pin against Bob best won-lost percentage in the Sancht·z in the sen>nd period at 118 school's history if it wins one of the pounds. Aft.er f(Jrfcit wins by joe two matches. Last night's wins Andreetti, Curt Rood, and Jeff Her­enabled the Irish to come within rmann. Doug Skinner pinnl·d Ander­
one of their all-time record for wins son's Mark Pay in the second period in a season. A I Sth win on Saturday to give the Irish a commanding 24-6 will set a new mark. 
lead. Next weekend, Notre Dame will 
Brian Erard pinned Chuck Dear­travel to Lt>uisiana State for the dorffat the 4:34 mark at 1';8 pounds NCAA Midwest Regional Champin­to extend the lead to 30-6. Phil Baty ship tournament. 
Bulls dismiss Head Coach Sloan 
CHICAGO (AP)-Chicago Bulls 
Coach Jerry Sloan was fired yester­
day after the team, haunted by 
rumors ofdissension, skidded to the 
13th loss in its last I 7 contests, a 
team !>pokesman said. 
Sloan, who became head coach in 1979 after II years as a player, was to he replaced temporarily by either General Manager Rod Thorn or As· sistant Coach Phil Johnson, accord­
ing to team spokesman Tim Hallam. 
Immensely popular in a fiery decade-long career as a guard with the Bulls, Sloan tried to bring his on­court intensity to coaching. He led the National Basketball Association team to the playoffs last year, where they were eliminated by the Boston Celtics. 
But ths season's team, with a 19­31 record, was mired in t1fth place in the NBA's Central Division, a situa­tion some players blamed on inter­nal bickering and hostility toward Sloan and his coaching sntem. However, Sloan denied that person­nd problems led to his downfall. 
"I don't blame anyone," he said in a telephone interview. "I have no ill feelings toward my players." 
Sloan said he was not yet certain whether he would seek another coaching job. 
"I would like to spend some time with my family and some other things, but I don't have any specific plans," he said. 
The team scheduled a news con­ference for this afternoon to name 
No. 2Heels destroy Deacons 
GREENSBORO,-N.C. (AP) James Wonhy and Sam Perkins combined for 40 points, while Mic­hael Jordan added I 3 as second· ranked North Carolina demolished No. 14 Wake Forest 69-S I in an At· !antic: Coast Conference basketball rematch last night. 
Worthy finished with 23 points while Perkins, who missed the pre­vii>U!> game with the Deacons ­
· which was the Tar Heels' first loss this season -bn·ause of illness, added 17. North Carolina climbed to I 7-2 and 9-2 in the ACC. 
Guy .\1organ provided the main offl·nsc for Wake Forest with .23 points before fouling out with 2:21 
. left. Wake Forest is now 17-6 and 7­4. 
an interim coach. Thorn, who· hired Sloan, expressed regret at his firing. 
"Unfortunately, this kind of thing happens when a team is not playing well," Thorn said. "Hopefully, a change will get the team moving iry the right direction." 
Slqan said he had· no feelings of bitterness at his dismissal. 
"I feel about like I always do," he said. "I don't have any regrets. If I had had one mpre game to coach, everything would have been all right." 
Sloan became the second Chicago ht·ad coach to leave his job this week, and the third this year. Chicago Black Hawks Coach Keith Magnuson resigned Monday night, and Chicago Bears Coach Neill Armstrong was fired after last• season. 
A native of McLeansboro,· Ill., Sloan was a college All-American at Evansville University. He was selected in the first round of the 19()5 NBA draft by the Baltimore Bullets and was acquired by the Bulls a year later in the expansion draft in which the team was formed. 
Sloan became known as the "Charlie Hustle" of the NBA, teaming with Norm Van Ucr to form one of most toughest backcourt tan­dems in the league. The pair gained a reputation for dogged defense and diving for loose balls while leading the Bulls into the NBA playoffs in six ofSloan's last seven seasons. 
N ~D. Student Union presen-ts 
The Beturn of.. ... JOHN BAYLEY 
If you missed him. at the Jam, now is your chonce_to catch him LIVE! 
at (!YIUTAUQU/1! 
THE BEST IN REGGAE Friday, Feb.19 9-12pm Admission: Sl 
m-· 


rir1a/ Gt'nJ' Coont')' -tu•o months, as a matter of fact. Se· story' belowfor details. ( APPhoto) 
UntilJune 11 
Holmes-Woneyfight postponed 
NEW. YORK (AP) -The Larry 
Holmes-Gerry Cooney heavyweight 
title bout was rescheduled yester­
day for June II after Cooney •Was 
checked by three physicians for a 
partially torn muscle behind his left 
shoulder. 
. "I feel very hurt that the fight will 
not take place .in March," Cooney 
said at a news conference at the.New 
York University ,Medical Center, ; where the examination took place. 
"If all I was looking for was the 
money, we wouldn't be here now, 
and I'd be in there March 15. ~y goal 
is winning the heavyweight cham­
pionship of the world." 
Co-promo~r Don King im­
mediately predicted that 
postponement will make the match 
for Holmes' World Boxing Council 
title bigger than ever. King and Sam 
Glass ofTiffany Promotions had said 
each fighter could make as much 
SI 0 million on the March date. 
"The postponment should in­
crease the revenue 25 per cent," 
said King. "Instead of SSO million 
gross, we're talking S7S million and 
S100 million." 
King said the bout at a 32,000-seat 
arena at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas 
now will be held when the weather 
is warmer in the Northeast and more 
outdoor stadiums will be available 
for closed-circuit telecasts.. 
Acouple of hours before the fight 
officially was postponed, King had 
said a tentative date was May 24. At 
the news conference, Bob Halloran, 
sports direc:tor for Caesars World, 
said, "We think it's better in June 
t,han May," ad~ing a lot of rooms 
would be available in Las Vegas then. 
Holmes said Tuesday in Las Vegas 
that if the match was postponed, he 
would fight someone else to stay 
sharp while waiting for Cooney. 
"Holmes probably will be t1ghting and Dennis Rappaport, Cooney's co­in the interim," King said at the news managers, had been "conniving and conference. "It would be in the same scheming" because they wanted to time frame -late March or early push the day back to May orJune all April." along. 
King mentioned as possible op­"There is an injury," said Dr. John ponents Randy "Tex" Cobb. Jimmy Bergfeld, an orthepedic surgeon at Young and Larry Frazier. But Joe the Cleveland Clinic, who l'xamincd Granby, Cobbs' manager, has said Cooney with Dr. Steve Ockner ofthe that Cobb: recqvcring from a broken Cleveland Clinic and Dr. Jeffrey arm, could not be ready. Minkoff, , Cooney's personal 
Asked if he was concerned some­physician. thing _might happen to further "I think the chances ofhis reinjur­postpone the bout if Holmes took an ing it arc minimal," said Bergfeld, interim fight. Cooney said: ''I'm not also a surgeon for the Cleveland concerned about Larry Holmes. I'm Browns football team. "I have concerned about myseUand gL·tting diagnosed similar tnjurics for in shape for June II." fighters, and they arc all right." He 
Holmes had said that Mike Jones would not identify hem. 
ATTN. SENIORS... 
Houston 
Relocation Packets 
Due to Houston's dynamic economy, thousands of graduates are needed for high paying jobs in all 
career fields. Let our uniaue relocation packet be your ticket to the Sunbelt. Heres whata included: 
* 
Employment Referral 

* 
Apartment listings, includin~ pictures & ~ locator servic 


~ H~uston city map 
* Booklet 
Send your$9.95 to: 
Sunbelt Enterprises 6833 So. Gessner Suite 122 Houston, Tx. 77036 
,,. 
I 

The Observer -Sports Thursday, February 18, 1982 -page 10 

The Notre Dame wrestling team swept past visiting Anderson last nightat the ACC to raise its record to 13-2-1. See Brian Reimer's summary on page 9. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
...Captains 
continuedfrom page 12 
me, and it's given me a super educa­tion. But I can see it (the education) taking me off to something else other than (professional) hockey." 
Every college athlete likes to feel that when his athletic career is over, he in some way has contributed to the program he's leaving behind. When one gives of himself so totally for four years, all he hopes for is that people remember him for what he tried to exemplify as an athlete. 
Or as Poulin says, "He'd like to be recognized as someone who gave one hundred percent at all times, and who was fortunate enough to have been given a leadership role, and been able to handle it." 
When asked to write his Notre Dame hockey epitaph, Logan was baffled for a few moments and then responded, "I'd like to be remem­bered by my hockey aspects, but more importantly, I'd like to' be remembered by my good friends on the team." 
Start March 7 
Boxers prepare for Bengals 
BENGAL BOUTS -Although there are still 17 days until the opening bell for the annual Bengal Bouts tournament, there has been no signs ofprocrastination by the 70-plus members of the Notre Dame boxing club. 
Since the beginningofthe semester, the boxing room in the North Dome of the ACC has been bustling daily with puddles ofsweat similiar to the puddles of melted ice found outside the gym. 
"We have been working them very hard," says club co-president Dickie Hillsman. "Our practices have been quite intense, but we have a very dedicated group with lots ofdetermination. 
"Having our finals televised once again nationally by NBC only adds to our incentives. We realize that the harder we work, the better we look and the better our overall program looks on the national coverage." The team members put in two hours of practice every day, not including the miles that are run before or after practices. 
The tournament itself begins on Sunday March 7, continues with the semi-finals on March 9 and con­cludes with the finals on March 11. Nine or ten weight divisions are planned with a hope of as many as eight participants in each division. Besides the dedication of the members, there is another reason why this year's bouts promise to be more entertaining than ever. 
"Since I have been here," says the senior Hillsman, "this is the most strongest overall group we have had. In the last couple ofyears we have had one or two people that just really stood out over everyone. but this year we have at least 10 people who can be really called top amateurs. 
"We have excellent senior talent which means that the tournament will be all the more intense since it will be their last shot for a title. Plus we have a very good group of novices." 
Seven defending champions return to try to retain their titles -all but one of them being seniors. These returnees include Mike Martersteck ( 140 pounds), club co-president Tommy Bush ( 145), John Donovan ( 150), Greg Brophy ( 170), Mike Burke ( 177) and heavy'!Veight champ Mike Walsh. Graduate studentJim Mladenik also returns to defend his 155-pound title. 

There is more to the Bengal Bouts, however, than just the athletic prowess of the competitors in the ring. As always, the main emphasis that the club measures its real success by is the proceeds which go to the missions in Bangladesh. Now in its 52nd year of existence, the club has raised over a half-million dollars for the mis­sions, including over $19,000 last year. 
MEN'S-WOMEN'S GYMNASTICS -Domination by Notre Dame sophomore Denise McHugh highlighted the gymnastics weekend for the team last Saturday at the University ofMiami (Ohio). McHugh easily took all­around honors among the 18 women that competed by taking first place in the vault, ba!ance beam and parallel bars while placing second in the floor exercise. 
Freshmen Cindy Salvino and Kathy Wolter also had commendable individual efforts. Salvino was runner-up to McHugh in the vault and took fourth place in the floor exercise. Wolter, meanwhile, had a third-place finish in the balance-beam competition. The Miami women won the meet with 104.35 total points while the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's club had 75.2. Purdue finished with 37.95 points. 
The men's team was led by club president Brian McLaughlin, who finished in third place among 35 par­ticipants in the all-around competition. Top individual performances for Notre Dame were turned in by fresh­man Mike Dorenbusch who placed sixth on the rings, junior Ed Barret's seventh-place finish on the high bar and senior Louis DeLeon's eighth-place spot on the pummel horse. 
An all-scholarship team of Slippery Rock placed first in the meet with 219.9 total points. Miami, Notre Dame and Purdue finished with 154.55, 123.75 and 46 points respectively. · 
...NCAA 
considered equal." will be in one group.
continuedfrom page 12 
That means that teams like The four teams then will be dis-Ruth Berkey, the Assistant Executive Louisiana Tech, USC, Cheyney State persed among the East, Mideast, Director of Women's Champion-and Old Dominion, the top four Midwest and Far West regions, and 
EASY AMTIL\1( RID..... 
$5.00 to Niles depot 
ships for r_he association calls "teams teams in this week's poll, most likely 'when all teams have been assigned a For reservations or schedule information, ~----------------, region, the teams will be see?ed one call us or contact your travel agent. tATTENTION . t through eight.
• ' The first-and eighth-seeded teat ms
t Please return the plant that is missing _t wm play, the numbe_r two se~d willUnited Limo ' from the Student Offices main desk ' play N_o. 7. three Will play SIX and 
' • • • • • ' four w1ll play five. 
t Description: 5 plants In a gold rimmed t lnthefirstround, thehigherofthe t pot with cattails and & a lavender two seeds will have the option of "lk £1 T-h • b • thd •ft t playing the game on its home floor.
Sl ower. ISWaSa Ir aygi Whenthedrawisdowntoa16-teamt with sentimental value. Return in t field. the teams will be r sent to four t person or call and inform the Student ' regional sights: Raleigh, N.C. (East), 
A U • f • h b ' Knoxville, Tenn. (Mideast), Ruston,
' niOll 0 ItS W erea OUtS. t La. (Midwest) and Palo Alto, Calif. 
~----------------~(fu~}
The ,champions of each regional 
EARN-OVER $800A MONTH. 
AND OPEN THE DOOR TO ATOP 
EHGINEERitiG FUTURE. 


How many corporations would be willing to pay you over $800 a month during your junior and senior years just so you'd join the company after graduation? Under a special Navy program we're doing just that. It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate-College Program. And under it, you'll not only get great pay during your junior and senior years, but after graduation you'll receive a year of valuable graduate-level training that is not available from any other employer. . 
If you are a junior or senior majoring in math, engineering or 
GETA HEADrr'AD9 

ph.J-:sical_ sr;iences, find out more today. And let your career pay off ·-ft WJ IDIIII 
wh1le stlll m college. 

INANUCLEARCAREER. 
ror information or an interview, 
see your IIAVY reps on campus: Train for a career as a Nuclear Propulsion Officer in the Navy. The Navy has the most advanced nuclear equipment in the world, and needs 3-4 March advanced nuclear trained officers to maintain and operate it. 
The graduate level training you'll receive in this program could cost $30,000. As a Nuclear Propulsion Officer, you'll be rewarded with increased responsibilities apd promotion potential. · QUALIFICATIONS: Age-19 to 27% years old. F.rl11cRtion-Working-towards (or have completed) BA orBS degree. 
l .... 
will travel to Norfolk, Va, for the finals, to be hosted by Old Dominion March 26-28. 
' ' .Board 

continuedfrom page 8 
Women's Doubles 

Cervenak(1363)'oMIIIer  (1363)  v.  Gallagher  
(4312!-oGallagher (6848)  
Kennedy  (8135'j'oJantz  (6372)  v.  McCollester  
(3874'}oJimenez  

Mixed Doubles Daly (8645'j'oBiake (3818) v. Mulligan (3345'j'oGorskl (1262) Flood (1684'}oH1gQinS (277-6037) v. Burton (1789j'oGallagher (4312) Cordova (1249l'oM1IIer (1363) v. W~1derkamp ( 1739)'oMcKernan Golonka (3549)'oSmlth v. Tenre10 (3304'o6948!'o Navarro Runger (4549l'oSchmld (3352) v. Hatf1eld (1171toWalsh (8034) Powers (3306)'oLarkner (1298) v. Rosenfield (287­2577'J'oRosenberg (277-8169) 
RodnguelloCarva)al (4434) v. Welsh (1212j'oWelsh (288-0993) K1ng ( 1688l'oNowalk v. McGarnty (1615'j'oCruz Chnst (1735'j'oHenken (7693) v. CrokitoConway (277­3371) Pierc&'oCervenak ( 1363) v. Hudoba ( 1246)'oBalr (8497) Kollitz (277-6337'J'o0wens (288-0993) v. o·Bnen (1246)'oK1m (7956) Kahale (7838j-oMarget (8067) v. Schmidt (1602j'oK1mmel (284-4217) Pratt (1688j'oHensler v. Ba1ley (1602l'oMaley (1343) Wolf (8900j'oK~rchgessner v. Cuneen ( 1841toLegeay (8055) J1m1nez (3874'}oPrawosh (3862) v. Marten (6741to8ower (2875) Natale (4384'}o0erengoskl (277-7325) v. Naro~ne (7652j'oLyon 
c 

Ih~r========================~======~==== 
~~4()l~~~~===========================T==hu=r=s=d=ay='=F=e=b=ru=ary===1=8=,=19=8=2===p=a=g=e=l==l
Molarity 


ACROSS 35 Shout 1 NY wagering 37 Lacerate initials 39 Receipts at
The Daily Crossword 
4 Scrawny one a ball game 
9 Storm 40 Italian 13 Wings wine dis· 14 Here and-trict 15 To shelter 41 Asian palm 16 Wild West 43 German 
weapon title 18 Follow 44 Mexican 19 Emulates a worker 
Borgia 45 Bad: pref. 20 Enlarge 46 Loll about 22 Spool 48 Anita or 24 Indian Clara 
title 50 Vegetable 25 Kitchen 52 Goose genus 
kings 53 Women's­29 Negative 55"-a man 31 Stage with..." 
direction 57 Interstices 
Wednesday's Solution 

Michael Molinelli 


{1,/fJJ.., 7H!R& HMM.. Hllllll70 
7Ht:Y ARE. lEU.. IT'S 8W1 IUHICH ()Ng!; A fA/HI/.£ SINCE YO/JR. BOY• 1'Vl3 5f£N HIM. 
I I 




)eb Cashin 

61 Salts or 25 Cowboy esters gear 66 Wine press 26 Biblical 
residue prophet 
67 Short· 27 Singer John barreled 28 Weapons pistols of1776 
69 Fur 30 Twitch 70 Became 32 Mountain 
wide open lakes 71 Other 33 Floor, to 72 Individuals Francois 73 Select 34 Allude 
group 36 Lamb's 74 Sandra father or Ruby 38 Crony 42 Criticize 
DOWN 47 Of a cereal 1 Hodgepodge 49 Be ill 2 Bring plane 51 "Faerie 
to runway Queene" 3 The Good wife 
Queen-54 Mark of 4 Gem distinc· 5 Selected tion 6 Soak flax 56 Suppress in 7 Vicinity 8 Microbes 57 Bullets 9 Early 58 Pluvial 
automatic output 
weapon 59 Sea eagle 10 Jai-60 Zoo per· 11 Ericson former 12 Squirming 62 On in years 13 Uraeus 63 Far: pre f. 17 Vehicle for 64 Scottish· 
Shoemaker Irish 21 Grand-, 65 Camp. pt. Nova Scotia 68 NY tech. 23 Rhine siren school 

Campus . · 
•II:
15 am., 3:30 p.m. -Computing Class, Census Data and Software, M·ll5 Computing Cen­ter/Math Building 

•4 
p.m. -Seminar; "Time Resolved Raman Scattering of Transient Free Radicals", Dr. G.N.R. Tripathi, Radiation Lab Conference Theatre, Sponsored by Radiation Labratory 

•7 
p.m. -FUm, "EI Salvador, Seeds of Uberty", Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's College, Sponsored by The Central American Awareness Media Series 

•7 
p.m. -Computer Class, Computer Con· sciousness, M-115 Computing Center/Math Build· ing 

•7, 
9:15, 11:30 p.m. -FUm, "For Your Eyes Only", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Freshman Class 

•7:30 
p.m. -Debate, Between INFACT and Nestle, Inc., Memorial Library Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m. -Panel Discussion, "Career Night for the Program of Liberal Studies Students", Sponsored by Program of Liberal Studies, Memorial Ubrary Lounge 

•7:30 
p.m. -Basketball, Notre Dame Men vs. Seton Hall, Meadowlands, New Jersey, Cablevisioo 

•s 
p.m.-Ice Show, Ice Capades, ACC 

•10:30 
p.m.. -WSND Radio, N.D. Week in Review 

•II 
p.m. -WSND Radio, Album Hour, "The Blue Mask", Lou Reed 


T.V. Tonight 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10:00p.m. 
10:30p.m. ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
12:00a.m. !2:30a.m. 
1:40a.m. 

16 MASH 22 CBS News 28 Joker's Wild 34 The: MacNc:il/Lc:hrc:r Report 46 Rev. (}avid Paul 16 The Muppel Show 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 46 W. V. Grant 16 Fame 22 Magnum, P.l. 28 Mork and Mindy 34 Sneak Previews 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 28 Bosom Buddies 34 This Old House 46 Pattern For Living 16 Difl'rent Strokes 22 Knots Landing 28 Barney Miller 34 Austin City Limits 46 Today with Lc:ster Sumrall 16 Gimme A Break 28 Taxi 16 Hill Street Blues 22 Nurse: 
28 20/20 34 Michigan Outdoors 46 Jack Van lmpe 34 Training Dogs The Woodhouse Way 46 Faith For Today 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The Dick Cavett Show 46 Praise The Lord 16 Tonight Show 22 Quincy/McMillan and Wife 28 ABC News Nightline 34 Captioned ABC News 28 Vegas 46 Lester Sumrall Teach!ng 16 Late Night With David Letterman 28 Vegas 46 Sharing 28 Late Night Newsbrid 
... 

I~----------------------------· • I 
1. I I I 
I Live at Morris Civic 
I I Auditorium 1I March 24 8pm 1 
1I Tickets 9.50 ~ 10. SO Reserved I
I 
at Student Union Ticket Offici I Good seats are still I 
I available 1
I Buses available from ma,in 1 -ClrCl,. 1 
L------------------------------Y-~ 
"

SYLLABUS Course: Advanced Partying 465 Room: SENIOR BAR 
Objective: Intellectual Stimulation Prof: The Homb Thursday's Topic: Gin & Tonic Philosophy Friday's Topic: Western History-wear your 
Cowboy hat, hoots, and/or bandana for a surprise 
Saturday's Topic: music Theory featuring THE GRATEFUL DEAD 
Attendance policy: No excuses will be acccepted! 
1 1 




Thursday, February 18, 1982 -page 12
S~orts 
---------------Co-captains 
Poulin, Logan spur on icers 



Notre Dame center Dave Poulin, along with teammate jeff Logan, have been vital cogs in spurring on the red-hotIrish hockey team. See Steve Labate's feature on the two Irish co-captains at right. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
Sports Writer 
With the brand of successful and 
consistent play that the Notre Dame 
hockey team has shown of late, it's 
forgivable if one forgets the 
mediocre performances of Novem­
ber and Decemlber. 
Whenever a team does a complete turnabout during the course of a season, the reasons usually stem not from one player or one aspect of the game, but rather from numerous in­gredients which combine to produce a formula for victory. The 1981-82 Notre Dame hockey team is no exception. 
Goalie Bob McNamara finally is living up to the high expectations he brought with him from high school, and has been stellar in the cage. The defense has gelled and in the last three games has given up only five goals. The team is playing physical hockey, and combined with the backchecking ofthe forechecking of the forwads, the Irish are wearing down opponents early. 
Perhaps overlooked in NO's 10-3­1 stretch since Christmas break is the leadership and performances provided by the co-captains, Dave Poulin and jeffLogan. The man who directs the team from behind the bench, Coach Lefty Smith, has not fallen prey to this oversight however. 
"Very frankly," says Lefty, "I at­tribute the success ofthis year's club to the captains, and the leadership 
NIT : Togetin, you've gotta win 
NEW YORK -Digger Phelps has come home, and he's looking for some help. 
Traditionally, Phelps brings his Fighting Irish team to The Big Apple once a year. While the trip is a valuable recruiting tool, it is more of a media event. Digger meets with the New York press to trade one-liners and stories about his childhood days in nearby Beacon. 
He also comes so the powers-that-be in the media 
world get a chance to watch his tournament-bound 
team perform. He talks up his stars, brags about their 
ability, and boldly makes predicitions about their 
chances in the annual chase for the national champion­
ship. 
This year, all the talking in the world may not help. 
Phelps has been pumping up the press with talk of 
"near misses," telling the writers about "the best 7-13 
team in the country," and how his team has "made a 
complete turnaround." If the Irish beat Seton Hall 
tonight, he's going to need a lot of help from those 
writers, and from other New York natives as well. 
Phelps has made a promise, the latest of many that 
llave, so far, fallen by the wayside in this, the winter of 
Phelps' discontent. He promised the press, and he 
promised the students. Now, he's got to try to make 
good. 
We are in the backyard of the National Invitational · 
Tournament, a catch-all event that used to decide the 
nation's college basketball champion, but now serves 
simply as a goal for harried coaches with undermanned 
squads. 
For teams like Phelps's 1972-73 edition, it is the undreamed-ofreward at the end ofa Cinderella season. Coming off a 6-20 season, the Irish were 18-11 before they lost an ovenime thriller to Virginia Tech in the finals ofthe NIT that year. 
For teams like Terry Holland's 1979-80 Virginia team, the NIT is the last hurdle on the road to respectability. Ralph Sampson was just a freshman when he led the Cavaliers to five NIT wins and the title just two shon 
years ago. 
For teams like the 1980-81 squads ofTulsa and West Virginia, it is proofthey can play in the big time, and it gives them the self-confidence that's made both a Top 20 team this season. 
But to get in, you've gotta win. 
For all the talk about "almost" and "ifonly," the Irish have not won, and chances are very strong that they will not get in. 
A win tonight would help. You can be sure the NIT people will be in the Brendan Byrne Arena at New jer­sey's Meadowlands Spons Complex, and they'll be watching very closely. 
r 

It will be no easy task for the Irish. Seton Hall is tough, and will be no pushover. Head Coach "Hoddy" Mahon took over a program in shambles when he got the job last November. He inherited an 1 1-16 squad that Bill Rafeny left to pursue business interests. Mahon got the job as interim coach, and Seton Hall promised a nationwide search for a successor. 
Now, they may end the search. 
"The first application they're going to get for this job is mine," says Mahon. "I have no intention ofgiving up the job after only one year; I've had a lifelong dream to be head coach at a college and it has finally come true." 
Mahon has made the Pirates respectable in a very tough Big East Conference. They have been able to hold their own with every opponent, and actually beat several conference opponents early in the season. 
"These guys are tough," attests Villanova's Rollie Mas­simino. "They came very close to beating us just before we played Notre Dame. They are no pushover anymore.'' 
Mahon built this winner around very little ex­perience. The one exception is 6-2 guard Dan Cal­landrillo. The Pirates leading scorer last season, he led the entire Big East with a 19.4 ppg average in 1979-80. So far this year, he has moved up the all-time Hall scoring list, leading his club in scoring for the third year in a row. 
Then, unfonunately for Mahon, things fell apart over Christmas vacation. Three Pirate staners were placed on academic probation, and Seton Hall fortunes took a dramatic turn for the worse. They are struggling.now; actually, floundering probably is closer to the truth. But that makes this no less vital a game for Notre Dame. 
Phelps realizes the importance of this game, and he put the Irish through a particularly tough practice week in South Bend. 
"1 promise," Digger said to the students assembled at the Mardi Gras dance last weekend, "that you'll all have place to go over spring break. We are going to steal an NIT bid." 
Now, however, aU the talking is over. The future of the Notre Dame basketball season rests, just as it always had, real1y, with the men who will take the coun tonight. 
we've gotten out ofour seniors." 

With four crucial contests and the playoffs on the horizon, do the two captains feel an extra responsibility to the team? 
"The responsibility intensifies and I welcome it," says Poulin, "But at this time everyone is more intense." 
Logan echoed his teammate's sentiments: "I'm really looking for­ward to it (the last four games)," he says. "This is going to be the ending of my career and I really want to make this last stretch count." 
Perhaps Logan's burning desire to make his last few games memorable stems from the fact that he'd probab­ly like to forget what thus far has been a season full of personal disap­pointments. 
"I've had a rough year," he la­ments. "My performance doesn't even come close to the goals I've set for myself in the beginning of the year. 
"But teamwise we couldn't be sit­ting in a better position, we're peaking. I think this is the best I have seen us play in my four years here." 
On the other hand, center Dave Poulin must be quite satisfied with the season he has had up until now. Leading the team in points with 27 goals and 26 assists, including three goals this past weekend against Fer­ris State, he has proved himselfto be one the premiere players in the CCHA. 
The modest co-captain attributes 
his impressive sta-statistics to fate. 
"Fate has had its way," he says. "I've 
been injury free, the line set-ups 
have been great, and of course the 
fact that the team is doing well has a 
lot to do with my perfomance." 

With five wins in a row, Notre 
Dame has produced worry in the 
hearts ofCCHA foes. In years passed, 
no one wanted to play the Irish in 
the playoffs because of their un­
predictability. This year no one 
NCAAplansformat for women'S tourney 
By MARK HANNUKSELA 
Sports Writer 

Although an 83-53 setback does 
one's chances of receiving a bid to a 
national tournament little good, 
Notre Dame's women's basketball 
Coach Mary DiStanislao still harbors 
hopes. 

Ofcourse, what happens through 
the season's remaining four games 
will have a great deal of impact on 
Irish chances. Wins over South 
Carolina, Nebraska, DePaul and 
Michigan State will by no means 
guarantee Notre Dame a bid, despite 
the fact that the Irish will have won 
20 games. 

Chances are, though, that wins 
over those four very good teams 
might make Notre Dame one of 19 
teams that will receive an at-large 
benh. 

Thineen conference winners will 
qualify automatically for the 32­
team event. Ohio State, a winner 
over Illinois in the finals of the Big 
Ten tournament last weekend, and 
Kansas State, champion of the Big 
Eight, are among the teams which al­
ready have qualified. 

Winners ofthe Southeast, Atlantic Coast, Mid-American and Southwest conferences are among the other automatic qualifiers. 
This is the first year that the NCAA has sanctioned championships for women. Previously, tournaments came under the auspices of the As­sociation ofIntercollegiate Athletics for Women (AIAW). 
wants to play the Irish in the playoffs because they are predictably good. 
But what kind of effort is it going to take to qualify for the CCHA Tournament in Detroit, and come home with the MacNaughton Cup? 
"It's going to take twenty guys pulling together," Poulin feels. "If we get the same kind of perfor­mance we've had as of late, we can go all the way." 
Is Poulin referring to Providence, RI., the cite ofthis year's NCAA Divi­sion I Hockey Finals? "Providence is the sight that we all have our eyes on," he says. 
"Providence is where everyone is really aiming at," adds Logan. "In the past we've talked about it, but it hasn't been a reality." 
Is all this talk about the Final Four 
just wishful thinking among the 
players? Not according to Coach 
Lefty Smith. 
"The way we've been playing as of 
late," says Smith, "is such that any­
thing is possible." But the National 
Championship? "I'd say this team has 
shown that it's very capable of win­
ning the National Championship." 
Whether the Irish end their 
season in Providence, Detroit or 
South Bend, it's probable that all the 
seniors will be hanging up the skates 
that they've been lacing up since 
early childhood for the last time in a 
few weeks. 
Both Logan and Poulin realize that 
their shifts are numbered and hock­
ey will be just a pleasant memory 
shonly. "I've thought about it quite a 
bit, and it's a kind of scary feeling, 
says Logan. "I could never really un­
derstand how the seniors in the past 
felt, but now I can." 
Poulin feels very appreciative to 

the sport that has given him so 
much. "I don't see hockey as an end 
in itself," he says. "It's been great to 
See CAPTAINS, page 10 

A number ofschools have chosen to continue to compete under AlAW guidelines, which means that if they should win a tournament in one of the conferences that has an automatic qualifier, it will be up to the conference to recommend to the committee who its representitive should be. 
In many cases, that representitive will be the runner-up in the tourna­ment. 
All teams will receive their official bids at 5 p.m. on March 6, following a three-day conference in Kansas City, Kan., between a nine-member selection committee. 
IfDiStanislao's club receives a bid, it will come within minutes of its final regular season game against Michigan State. 
The NCAA tourney format for women is similar to the men's for­mat. Eight groups of four teams will be set up. Each group will have what 
See NCAA, page 10 
INSIDE: Bengals-­page 10 Cooney-­page9 








