~----------·-------~----~-----~-~---~--~~
. 
, , Roadlightspage 3 

.r~----~~----~--..------------------------~---------.-.----­
VOL. XVII, NO. 19 tht.· imkpt:rHknt ~tudt.·nt nt:w~papt:r ~t:rving notrt: Jamt: and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1982 
U.S. to send tnilitary forces to Lebanon 
(AP) -The Israeli government 1,400 by PLO chiefYasser Arafat. approved yesterday the plan to send Israel blamed Phalangist U.S., Italian and French militiamen Joyal to the slain peacekeepers back to Beirut, where Gemayel for the rampage. Lebanese the confirmed death toll from a officials and some survivors said the frenzy ofbloodletting in two refugee killers were from the militia of camps climbed to 204. renegade Lebanese army Maj.· Saad 
With support from the Moslem Haddad. leaders who tried to block his The Phalangists and Haddad brother's election, Maronite Chris­denied involvement. Israel was tian Amin Gemayel was chosen charged with .doing nothing about president of Lebanon during a spe­the killing for 36 hours and was con­cial Parliament session held one demned for not preventing the week after President-elect Bashir slaughter with its troops in west Gemayel was assassinated. Beirut. 
Israel pulled more of its troops But Israel rejected these charges, out ofwest Beirut, which it seized in saying it stopped the killing as soon what it called a peacekeeping move as its army found out it was going on. following Bashir Gemayel's murder. But the Israelis kept an overnight In announcing his decision to curfew in force in the predominant­send U.S. Marines back to Beirut, ly Moslem sector for a third night. President Reagan said Monday night 
United States bas joined Italy and France in sen­
Prime Minister Menachem 
ding military back to frenzied Lebanon. ( AP) 
Begin's Cabinet, after a 5-hour See LEBANON, page 5 meeting in Jerusalem, announced that it endorsed reconstitution of the 2, 1 00-man force that left earlier Beirut earlier this month after 
Congress to intervene in continuing rail strike
evacuation of the main body of PLO fighters. '· 
Cabinet Secretary Dan Meridor WASHINGTON (AP) The But Lewis was greeted with sharp Human Resources,. there was solid agreement that the said the government also called for a 5enate opene(l an express track yes­criticism from some Democrats at Furthermore, insisted Lewis, any government must move to end the committee of five nations -Israel, terday for President Reagan's bill to both the House and Senate hearings attempt to impose another man­strike. Lebanon, the United States, Italy and halt the nationwide rail strike, but over concern that the administra­datory cooling-off period,. as the en­The effect of the strike has been France -"to ensure that in the new the measure may be flagged for at tion was asking Congress to impose gineer's union wants, would put into widespread. circumstance, the bloody terror will least a day or two in the House. a settlement on the railroad unions. jeopardy the tentative agreement al­Most freight traffic has been not be renewed." ·. As committees in both chambers Instead, the critics suggested an ready signed by the railroads and the halted across the nation, although 
But he said the Cabinet rejected held hearings on the 3-d_ay-old extension of the cooling-off period 80,000-member United Transporta­Conrail continues to run because its President Yitzhak Navon's call for an strike, Senate leaders indicate<fa which had precluded the strike for tion Union. engineers are under a different con­Israeli investigation of the slaughter vote on the proposal to order 60 days, or imposition ofarbitration. Fred Hardin, president of the tract. Amtrak passenger trains have last Thursday and Friday at the Sabra 26,000 locomotive engineers back UTU, confirmed in an interview that been halted in the South and West. and Chatilla refugee camps. Meridor to work could come soon. Both of those options, said Lewis, he would "absolutely" withhold his Commuter rail traffic in Chicago and said only that the government But House Speaker Thomas "Tip" were considered and rejected by the contract from ratification if a San Francisco has been interrupted. would discuss "the manner to con­O'Neill indicated a slower pace, administration. He said Congress at cooling-off period is ordered in the The negotiatins between the uni­duct an appropriate examination in­though he promised the bill "will be least six times in recent times has engineer's union negotiations. on and National Railway Bargaining to the facts." expedited before the week is out." itervened in various degrees to halt a "I'm not about to ratify mine (the Council, which represents 110 rail­
At the Moslem Chatilla camp, Red Transportation Secretary Drew rail work stoppage. contract) while they're cooling off," roads, collapsed Monday after the Cross spokesmen said 84 more Lewis urged Congress to move "I think we've mediated this thing he declared. two sides failed to resolve the ques­bodies were recovered from rubble rapidly to impose a settlement al­almost to death.... You're not going While disagreements emerged tion of a wag differential for en­bulldozed by the marauders· over ready proposed by a special com­to get this resolved," he told the among members of both the House gineers over those earned by other 
victims. This pushed the confirmed mission. He estimated the strike was Senate Committee on Labor and and Senate over what action to take. members ofa train crew. toll to 204, but the spokesmen said costing the economy between 5500 many more corpses were still million to S 1 billion a day and within buried. Estimates of the dead range a week could result in 450,000 
Oraflex danger
from .300 by the U.S. government to people out of work. 


No warninggiven about drug use 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The Food not submitted prior to the approval vestigating whether Lilly has vi­and Drug Administration got no da•e." Lilly withdrew the once-a-day olated any ofits regulations. reports ofeight deaths in the United arthritis medication from the market Ronald Culp, a Lilly spokesman, Kingdom that were related to Eli Lil­in the llnited States and other read a statement saying, "Lilly policy ly and Co.'s controversial anti­countries Aug. 4 after British health 
is to comply with all requirements ofarthritis drug. Oraflex, before the officials suspended its sale. 
the law and FDA regulations regard­drug was approved for sale in the The drug, which went on the ing the reporting of adverse reac­United States, a congressman said market in England in 1981 under the tions to the FDA. Beyond that, weyesterday. trade name Opren, reportedly has don't think it would be appropriateRep. L.H. Fountain, D-N.C., said been linked to 61 deaths there and to comment."
the Indianapolis-based drug firm 15 in the Onited States from liver or It was not clear whether the eightgave FDA no reports of the deaths kidney failure or other problems.-· 
deaths were reported by Dista itself before the drug was approved on Fountain, whose subcommittee or by individual British physiciansApril19. held hearings last month on the prior to April 19. Nor was it clearFountain, chairman of the House drug's appro,·al, said in a statement, whether Dista informed its head­Government Operations subcom­"I doubt that FDA would have ap­quarters about the reports.
mittee on intergovernmental rela-proved Oraflex earlier this year had 

. tions, released an exchange of it known of the eight deaths A telex from the secretary of the letters with British medical officials reported by the company to the Committee on Safety ofMedicines of and the head of the FDA, Dr. Arthur British governmem·or the: much lar­the United Kingdom Department of Hull Hayes Jr. ger number of deaths reported by Health and Social Security to Foun­
The FDA commissioner, in a letter British physicians." tain said, "You should note that the dated Sept. 14, informed Fountain The FDA commissioner said in his committee receives reports of that "according w our recocds the letter, "Because the deaths in ques­suspected adverse effects direct eight deaths reported by (Lilly sub­tion were reported by Dista after from doctors as well as from the sidiary) Dista Products Ltd. were not submission ofthe NDA, it has not yet pharmaceutical companies con­reported to FDA by Lilly prior to ap­been determined whether a viola­cerned and that there therefore may 
proval of the NDA (new drug ap­tion of (an adverse drug reaction) have been reports to the committee plication). ... A recent phone call to regulation has occurred." of which Dista products ... were not Lilly confirmed that the data were Hayes said the FDA was still in-aware." 
---·-----.-:--_._;,t. ---­




NewsBrie_b 
By The Obsen•er and The Associated Press 

The 38-year-old actor, known on the screen as johnny Wadd, ate his first meal Sunday, 11 pounds thinner than when he started the strike. But sheriffs officials said Holmes may have been passed cookies and candy bars from other jail inmates during his fast. Holmes began refusing food after he was held in con­tempt ofcourt for refusing to answer grand jury questions about the four murders in Laurel Canyonjuly 1, 1981. He has been jailed since Aug. 4. Holmes was charged with the murders but was acquitted in june.-AP 
His attorney called hera liar and an unfit mother. Her lawyer alleged he was drug dealer who had made hauls from Colombia. Divorce proceedings involving Peter Pulitzer, grandson of the famed newspaper publisher, and his wife, Roxanne, began Monday in Circuit Court. The 52-year-old Pulitzer, a Palm Beach resident said to be a millionaire with interests in international hotels, is seeking the divorce plus custody of the couple's twin 5-year-old boys. Mrs. Pulitzer, 31, wants to keep the children, but is not contest­ing the divorce. "When people fuss about divorces, they only fuss for one reason -money," joseph Farish, Mrs. Pulitzer's attorney, said during the proceedings. "It's a fight over money; the smokescreen is the children.'-'AP 
It'S nOt Often thata Kenny Rogers fan can stop a bus that says "Kenny Rogers' Six-Pack Band" and ask for an autograph. "But all I got was the bus driver's signature on the citation," said Iowa State Patrol trooper Bob Kinseth. Kinseth said he clocked the full-length, custom-decorated bus at 75 mph Monday evening on Interstate 80 and pulled it over, hoping that the singing star was on board. "But he wasn't there. I guess they rarely travel together," he said. The six-person backup group was on its way from South Dakota to the Chicago area, members told him. He said he'd stopped several famous groups before, including the singing group Alabama and even country singerjohnny Cash, "but he wasn't inside eii:her," the disappointed trooper said.-AP 
Three Gary residentswere in custody yesterday after the beating death of a 10-month-old girl, Gary police say. The baby, Silva Williams, died Monday afternoon at a Gary hospital. Gary Police Sgt. Loy Roberson said hospital officials said the baby's body had bruises and marks. The baby's 17-year-old mother, whose name was not released, was held yesterday at the Lake County juvenile deten­tion center in Crown Point. She had not been charged, Roberson said. Paul Carson, 30, and his brother, Solomon Carson, 25, were arrested Monday night at the hospital and were charged in the baby's death, he said. They were being held at a Gary jail. No bond was set. 
-AP 
The ffiOSt popular songS in Ireland these days are not Irish songs at all, but the down home Nashville sound ofgood old country music. Mother Machree can't hold a candle in the auld sod to Dolly Parton, and the greenest juke box lyrics you hear any night in the Emerald Isle have nothing to do with the hills of Killarney or the vale of Avoca, but emanate from the johnny Cash recording of "The Green, Green Grass ofHome," a best seller on both sides ofthe troubled border. Although I have observed the phenomenon myself in many hours of job related pub crawling in all of Ireland's 32 counties, my authority for this disturbing trend in Hibernian musical taste is Al Logan, the Belfast crooner who regularly commutes to the Catskill Mountains in New York to reacquaint the immigrants sons and daughters of Erin and their offspring with their roots. "Country music is emotional and sentimental," Logan explained as we both waited for the breakfast bell to sound in a lovely green glen of the "Irish Alps ," as the northeast corner of the Catskills is called. "And the Irish are an emotional, sentimental people. They like their songs simple and direct, tugging a bit at the heart strings and maybe telling a story-a sad story, preferably." -AP 
The Hall Presidents Councilmet last evening 

in Grace and revised and passed an alcohol statement which defines the use ofparty rooms as mainly for socializing and not for drinking. Requests for matching funds for hall improvements were turned with decisions by the Student Housing Office to be made shortly.­
The Obseroer 
Fair todaywith a high in the 70's; low tonight in the low 40's.-AP 
-----~­

----·----------------------------------------­
Wednesday, September 22, 1982-page 2 
COTH restructuring 
Communication and Theater, the only department administered jointly between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College, may eRtl this arrangement by the end of the 1983-84 school term. 
Although Department Chairman Mitchell Lifton maintains that nothing is official, a decision to restructure administration of the department was an­nounced to faculty and student representatives last week. 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame will each develop its own Communication department, tentatively scheduled to begin during the fall semester 1983. 
The Theater department will continue to be jointly administered, although it is expected to be divided after separate communication programs are fully es­tablished. 
Astudent representative for the Theater Department predicted that the Theater program would be restructured by the end of the 1984 spring semester . 
The news came as no surprise to department insiders who saw the goals of the two campuses diverging. One professor noted that expansion in the program on the Notre Dame campus was beginning to pose a problem. 
While the number ofSaint Mary's women enrolled in Communication and Theater has remained relatively constant, the major has exploded on the Notre Dame campus. 
There were two Notre Dame students in the major three years ago. Lifton es­timates the current figure at about 110. 
Lifton said he was con­cerned that in the present structure the needs of stu­dents in both institutions were not being met as they ought to be. 
He added that resources are not being allocated as ef­ficiently as they could be. 
Another faculty member saw Notre Dame students 

enrolling in the Film/Video concentration. 
If this had continued, Saint Mary's may have found itself supporting a program that is not reflective of its direction ofgrowth. 
Saint Mary's may not want to do develop its Film/Video program, since most enrollees are Notre Dame students. It will have the rest of this academic year to decide how to structure the department. 
Until 1979, Communication and Theater was known as the department of Speech and Drama Speech and Drama, originally established in 1966, was also adminis­tered cooperatively. 
The name change was initiated during fall 1979 to refect a new curriculum which emphasized com­munication. 
When the new curriculum began three years ago, a staff of nine serviced 260 students. Now, a staff of 13 services over 800 students. 
Lifton recognized the need for a mechanism for change...a way to accomodate students at both institu­tions. 



lelli FliDt· 

Executive News Editor Inside Wednesday 
He claims a number of possibilities are now under discussion to achieve some new administrative arrange­ment to accomodate the situation that has evolved. A program split is one of the more attractive possibilites. 
Many fates depend upon what happens with the Communication and Theater major. Lifton assures, however, that students now enrolled in the major will not be affected by the decision. 
Any change will affect plans for the restoration of Washington Hall. Vice President for Business Affairs Thomas Mason said the future of Washington Hall depends on what happens with the Theater major. 
He thinks that before Washington Hall is altered structurally, what the facility is intended to accomplish should be determined. 
Notre Dame seems firmly committed to expanding the Communications program. It made most of the invest­ments in equipment for the Film/Video concentrate of the department. 
The thrust of the remodelling of Washington hall has been to accom­modate classroom needs. The next phase of renova­tion begins this summer, and will include replacement of all seats in the lower area of the auditorium. 
The new seats will be similar to those in the An­nenberg auditorium padded, with writing 

If Washington Hall is remodelled for classroom use, any possible Notre Dame theater department may be left without accommodations. 
Use of Washington hall for full-fledged theater may not be a decision concerning the academic program as much as resources. While RCA may be willing to donate video equipment, it may be less likely to finance im­provement in the acoustic design of Washington hall auditorium. 
The future ofthe Theater program may be up to Saint Mary's. Saint Mary's has the potential for a much more comprehensive theater department than Notre Dame. 
So will Notre Dame students interested in Theater be able to declare the major at Saint Mary's? And Saint Mary's students interested in Film/Video allowed to participate in the program at Notre Dame? 
Lifton said discussion is ongoing to create a program to fulfill the needs ofstudents at both institutions. Both administrations will make statements when concrete decisions are reached. But there are no answers yet. 

boards. 
Design Editor ................. My First Paper by 
J.P.Keyes, Amatuer Angler Design Assistants .........................).P. Keyes Better Bass Bassist Layout Staff.................. Sheila, Kash, Maria (Thanks Gang) Typesetter ................................ Big AI Novas News Editor .............................. Vascular Vic Features Layout ................................... Ubby Editorials Layout ................ )oe Musemeci Sports Copy Editor .............. Chris Needles 
(after Skip left) Ad Design ................... .............. Mighty Paul Photographer.......... ...... Awesome Ed Guest Appearances .................. Mary-Lynn, 
No Design Assistants, Mikey 
Maura the Demirad• Hi mom, granny, dad, Big D! 
The Observer IUSPS 598 9201 IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col lege Subscnptlons may be purchased for $25 per year i$15 per semester) by wr1!1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame Indiana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The A:;sociated Press All reproduct1on nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame Indiana 46556 


Wednesday, September 22, 1982-page 3
The Observer 



Lights tobe added along ND-SMCroad 
By ANNE MONASTYRSKI Notre Dame securitv. Two Saint StaffReporter Mary's security guards foot­patrolled the length of the road 
More lights will he added on the during these hours. road between Saint Marv's and Tony Kovatch, Director of Notre Dame hecause of the positive Security at Saint Marv's, also em­effects that temporary lightmg phasized the need for ~ore light on provided on the road during last the road between the Saint Mary's Saturday's night game. entrance gate and Holv Cross Hall. 
The temporary lighting unit, The new sodium vapor.lights should which was set up free of charge by he in operation within the next ten the Musco Mobile Lighting Co. ac­days, according to Kovatch, "making commodated the heavy pedestrian traffic hefore and after the Notre the road Dame-Michigan tc>orhall game. Al­look like day." though no inodents were reported. Maintenance at Notre Dame will the temporary lighting emphasized a evaluate the effectiveness of the definite need for more permanent temporary lighting before deciding lights, according to Glen Terry, the number, type, and location of Director of Security at Notre Dame. the new lights. Several students who "We need more light; there's no walked the road Saturday night 
President Reagan flanked by Defense Secretary Council briefing in the Cabinet Room at the
question about that," he said. thought that the units lit the area but 
Caspar Weinberger, right, and Secretary ofState White House. The president bas ordered the 
Security worked a double shift created a glare. "It was bright, but it 
George Schultz, along with Ambassador Philip Marines back into Lebanon. See related story on 
from 9 p.m. to 3 a.m. Saturday, with would be better if there were more 
Habib, far left, conducts a National Security page one. (AP Photo)
emphasis on the parking lots. This lights that are not as bright," com­left the road virtually unpatrolled by mented one Saint Mary's student. 

Harvester workers accept wage cutJ·
Fortner controllers 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. (AP)-Arep­workers to accept wage deferrals. ter, Helmke said. resentative of a Fort Wayne civic "That might be the straw that H·arvester ...x,.kesman Bill Grttn­

appeal P ATCOfiring 
group travelled to Chicago yester­throws the decision Fort Wayne's hill said implem~nring the deferrals day to present yet another reason for way," Helmke said. Ohio officials "would open a ton ofquestions." International Harvester Co. to con­also are trying to entice Harvester to The deferrals are in addition toINDIANAPOLIS -(AP) -About whether his "clients were absent solidate its truck manufacturing close the Fort Wayne plant and the S31 million loan guarantee200 former air traffic controllers from their jobs during the strike be­operations in Fort Wavne. move its truck manufacturing opera­package the stare presented to Har­have appealed to a federal agency to cause they were participating in the Paul Helmke, pre;ident of Fort tions to Springfield, Ohio. vester officials in August. Ohio offi­
determine whether the Federal walkout. 
Wayne Future Inc., said a represent­Deferrals of I 5 percent ofthe Fort cials presented a S30 millionAviation Administration was jus­"The burden of proof is on the Wayne workers' pay over the next save
tified in firing the controllers during FAA," Grahn said. "My clients were ative was expected to present Har­proposal to the Springfield, 
vester officials with pledges from three years would produce more Ohio heavy-duty truck assemblythe strike by Professional Air Traffic absent for a variety of reasons ran­than S9 million savings for Harves-
Co t ntrollers Organization. ging from sick leave to vacation about 830 Fort Wayne Harvester plant. 
Hearings before the federal Merit leave. The FAA did not establish that The ad was offered after Harvester System Protection Board· began they were involved with the strike officials said losses would force Monday ro determine whether the before they were fired." them to close one of their three
Officialsclaim victory
fired controllers should be North American truck assembly
FAA attorney Glenn L. Brown 

reinstated. plants. The third plant, which is in 
argued that the fed-.,·al agency did 

Similar hearings were held at In­Chatham, Ontario, is not thought to
have sufficient justification to fire 

dianapolis last week at the request of be in danger ofclosing.


over Medjruit-jly 
the controllers. 

another group of controllers -The civic group asked Hanrester
Merit System Protection Board 

about 100 -who maintain they workers last week to clip newspaper
SAN FRANCISCO (AP)-Califor­agriculture industry.
presiding officer John H. Pleuss said 

were coerced into striking by coupons supporting the deferral and
nia officials toasted victorv over the "This is a happy day in California," PATCO members. each case would be judged on .deposit them in collection boxes ;:t
its Mediterranean fruit fly ;ith cham­said Richard Rominger, state direc­
During Monday's hearings, own merits. The hearings are five city banks. On Fridav, thre:
pagne Tuesday, ending a two-year, tor ofFood and Agriculture, as Medf­
banks counted only a totai of 26·J
Charles R. Grahn, attornev for the scheduled to continue through S96 million battle to eradicate the ly project director Jerry Scribner controllers, questioned wh~ther the Friday and the convene periodically coupons and the group extended
voracious pest that threatened the popped a cork fro t m a bottle. FAA had sufficiently determined during the next two months. state's multibillion-dollar the deadline to Monday.
Symbolizing the victory, Romin­The group's goal was for 70 per­
ger presented a basket of fruit to cent participation to produce a !30
C.W. "Bill" McMillan, assistant U.S. 
million savings, Helmke said
1st operational mission 
agriculture secretary, whose depart­Helmke, though, said toda\' hement had once accused the state of 
was happy with the 20 percent par­
laxity in the eradication effort. 
. ticipation from the 4,000 Fort
NASApreparesshuttle'sflight 

McMillan was one of several Wayne Harvester workers. federal officials who attended the 
"When we announced that goal,
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -four men when it blasts off on its first man Mark Hess. 
ceremony at project headquarters in we had no idea what kind of par­
The space shuttle Columbia com­operational flight. The next step will involve three Los Gatos, which formally ended ticipation we'd get," he said.
pleted yesterday the slow, crunch­The shuttle arrived at the pad at days of hooking gas, electrical and medfly quarantines in the Golden The group fell short of its goding trek from its hangar to the about 10 a.m., on time and without propellant lines to the shuttle, he State. 
probably because a number ofseaside launch pad where workers difficulty. But the rollout procedure said. 
Said Scribner: "I feel great and 
workers already have made conces­
will make final preparations for its was not expected to be completed The rollout began on time at 5:14 tomorrow will be the first time in sions and some may not have heardfifth mission on Nov. II. until about I:.30 p.m.. when "metal a.m. with the shuttle, perched nose­years that I won't worry the phone about the wage deferral pledgesThe reusable spacecraft will carry touches metal," said NASA spokes-up atop a giant transport vehicle, will ring with a new find some place since the Fort Wayne plant is shut
NASA spokesman Hugh Harris said. 


or a plane crash." 
down this week, he added. The transport vehicle moves at "about a mile per hour, but it ha'i to go slower on corners," Harris said. 
~I~_h121m,e~O~~~-,
The shuttle. mated to its I 5-story­tall fuel tank and two powerful boos­ter rockets, rolls the 3 miles to the launching area on a gravel road the 


Attention ll 
equivalent of an eight-lane freeway, Harris said. 


Saint Mary's Students: 
Among the final preparations workers will make on the spacecraft 

You can buy Observer 
while it rests on the launch pad will be the loading of two communica-·~ 

classified Ads at the Saint

tions satellites. The satellites, owned by Satellite Business Svstems and Telesat of Canada, are t~ be loaded 
ahoard the shuttle on Oct. IH, said 
Mark Hess, spokesman for Kennedy 
Space Center. 
The satellites will be the first launched from the shuttle's 60-foot­long cargo bay while in orbit, Hess said. 
The shuttle will carry four men in­to space, including Mission Cmdr. Vance Brand, pilot Rohert Over­

Senior Arts&Letters majors examine Placement Catalogues dis­
myer, William Lenoir and Joseph Al­

tributed at the Placement Workshop in the Center For Continuing 
len.

Education. (Photo byEd Carroll) 
Mary's Observer office {located in Regina South · basement):! 
e· 


Hours 1-4pm, Sun.-Thurs. Phone 284-5365 

The Observer Wednesday, September 22, 1982-page 4 
Psychology of Attractions 
Tageson claims opposites attract 

By MIKE MAZZOLI 
News Staff 
A conscious understanding of the attraction we feel tqward others may help us recognize and develop neglected qualities in ourselves, said Dr. C. W. Tageson in his lecture "The Psychology of Attraction" last eve­ning in Carroll Hall. 
Dr. Tageson, associate professor of psychology at Notre Dame, said that the adage "opposites attract" has been confirmed through clinical experiences. He explained this at­traction as the projection ofour un­developed qualities onto our loved ones, through whom we can then experience the characteristics we desire but do not possess. 
The person who depends on reason, for example, may idealize in­tuition, and be attracted to one who has that quality; in the same way the cautious person admires the im­pulsive. As the relationship between two such "opposites" progresses, however, both sides often realize that the other is human and not an ideal at all, and the resulting friction 
may  threaten  their  friendship  or  
love.  
In  that  friction,  however,  Dr.  
Tageson  sees  the  potential  for  

growth. An understanding of those qualities admired in the loved one may help us realize our own failure to develop those qualities, and focus our attention on ways to improve those neglected features. By thus "reclaiming our projections" we can call upon those capacities in our­selves which before we had only admired in others. 
Dr. Tageson suggested that This potential for growth through con­flict may explain society's tradition­al insistence on the marriage contract. Though conflict in a mar­riage between opposites may be in­evitable, the result of the friction is often a more complete person. As a result, it may be in society's and the individuars best interests to preserve the marriage as long as pos­sible to allow for the growth of the individual during this period. 
Families lost 

500 dead in El Salvador tlood 
SA;\/ SALVADOR, El Salvador ( AP) -The death toll from floods and mud slides set off by torrential rains climbed to 4H9 yesterday in El Sal­vador's worst natural disaster in I 7 
years.  
In  Guatemala,  authorities  es­ 
timated  there  were  at  least  I00  
weather-related  deaths.  They  said  

more than 20 tlood-swollen rivers had cut off large stretches of high­ways, leaving many parts of the country isolated. 
Green Cross Director Roberto Cruz said his rescue teams had recovered 2SO bodies from the Montebello section of northeast San Salvador, where tlood waters from the slopes of the San Salvador vol­cano crashed through a: retaining wall before dawn Sunday, burying 

WITH VERY SPECIAL GUEST STARS 
•38SPECIAL 
THIS FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 24 
NOTREDAMEA.C.C. 8:00P.M. 
TICKETS NOW ON SALE AT: 
•A 
C C BOX OFFICE •ROBERTSON'S (South Bend & Concord Mall) •FIRST SOUCE BANK •ST. JOSEP-H BANK •SEARS (University Park Mall) •ELKHART TRUTA •SUSPENDED CHORD (Elkhart) 

•WORLD 
RECORDS (Goshen) •J.R.'S MUSIC SHOP (La Porte) 


Produced by BEAVER 
The government .declared a state of national emergency Sunday after four days of heavy rains loosened tons of mud from hillsides and vol­canos. Cotton and sugar crops were ruined in many areas. 
The government set aside S.UO,OOO to provide food, shelter and medical aide to an estimated 50,000 people left homeless by the 
dis;L~ter. 
But Interior Ministry spokesman Orrego Candray said an estimated 2,000 injured people are straining the capital's hospitals, which are plagued by a shortage of medicines and blood for transfusions because of the civil war that has claimed an estimated 5H,OOO lives. 
Leftist guerrillas have been fight­ing the li.S.-supported government here for nearly three years. 
"There is a shortage of medicines created by the (armed) cont1ict," said Candray. "This ( tlooding) is the coup de grace of the contlict." 
hundreds of houses under I 0 feet of mud. 
Cruz said he believed I,000 to I,500 people died in Montebello, the hardest-hit area. A defense Minis­try spokesman described the es­timate as "a little exaggerated." 
Red Cross spokesman Jorge Rivera said Monday night his agency had recovered 37 bodies from Mon­tebello. in addition to the 250 reported by the Green Cross. Anoth­er 202 bodies were reported found at other sites near the capital and around the country. 
The heavy rains began Thursday, and stopped Monday. 
More than I,SOO rescue workers were digging through piles ofrubble at Montebello. Officials said entire familic~ were lost and that it will take IS days to dig out the area. 
Survivors told ofone woman who was buried up to her neck in mud. Two of her children were killed by the mudslide. 

Mountain ntan steals foodfront hikers 
GRAND JliNCTION, Colo. (AP) 
-Doctors and businessmen hiking 
in the rugged high country recently 
have been robbed of food by a 
bearded mountain man who carries 
a rifle and an ivory-handled pistol 
and badmouths big government and 
the oil companies. 
"Navajo Sam," as he is identified 
by letters etched on the stock of his 
ritle, was described by a college stu­
dent who encountered him as a kind 
of modern-day Robin Hood, dislik­
ing the rich and living in the wilder­
ness to escape the threat ofa nuclear 
war. 
But one of the victims of his rob­
beries this summer in the San Juan 
National Forest calls him an "armed 
lunatic." 
The authorities, meanwhile, can't 
find him. 
"There's 40,000 acres of national forest, all heavily timbered, up there and it's 80 miles away from here," said Dolores County Sheriff Robert Bryan. 
"It's hard to get in there and look for that guy," Bryan said in a telephone interview from his office in Dove Creek. "There was snow up there last weekend." 
Bryan and other local authorities believe the man who robbed several campers of their food is Leo Lyyjoki, 
51. Lyyjoki, a former farmer and log­ger, is known to favor the "Navajo Sam" nickname. 
"He really didn't like the rich," said l'ort Lewis College student Sean Dee, who encountered Navajo Sam while hiking during the Labor Day weekend. "He was really down on oil companies, big government and organized crime." 
Dee, who induced Navajo Sam to pose for a photograph, said the bearded outdoorsman told him he had been living in a pi;L~tic lean-to the past 14 months to escape the threat of nuclear war. 
The mountain man said he had lost a dairy farm because the federal government demanded that he upgrade his equipment to meet health standards, then lost all his lumbering equipment to his second wife in a divorce settlement. 
Warren Peterson, a Grand Junc­tion surgeon who was robbed of food by Navajo Sam, called him "an armed lunatic" who poses a danger to himself and other campers in the forest. 
"Any time anybody points a gun at your chest, it's dan/ dangerous, " Petersen said Monday. 
The bandit confronted Peterson and a companion in July. At least three other parties have reported similar incidents. · 
Petition drive Thursday 
A petition drive asking the Presi­dent ofthe United States for an inde­pendent international inquiry into the massacre of the Palestinian refugees in Lebanon will take place Thursday and Friday at the dining halls, the Memorial Library, the dorms, and Lafortune student cen­ter during mealtime. 



Troubledfamily seeks new-place to live 
INDIANAPOLIS ( AP) -Home for 6-week-oldJessie is an incubator in a medical center's intensive care unit. Home for her parents and their two other children has been the family car or the Salvation Army. 
But in a few weeks, the baby girl -born with her gums and jaws fused together -will likely leave Riley Hospital for Children. And before that occurs, her parents must be settled into a permanent residence in order to care for her. 
"In the next month or two, our goal is to get this family reunited," said Carol Mahan, a social worker in Riley's newborn intensive care unit. "We need to get them back on their feet so we can get this baby home and the family back on the track again." 
The goal is a formidable one. Steve and Gladys C. -for the sake of his baby, Steve requested his last name not be used -have had more than their share of hard luck so far, and there are no immediate signs of lm· provement. 
A 26-year-old steel worker, Steve cannot return to work for another year after injuring himM:Ifon the job in 1980. His wife cannot work be· cause she must care for their J 1· month-old son and 4-year-old daughter. 
Shortly after Jessie's birth Aug. 9, the Indianapolis family was evicted from its home because it couldn't pay the rent and was forced to live several weeks out of their 1969 automobile, eating meals and sleep­ing overnight in the car. "We parked along the White River or anywhere we could," he said. 
His wife and the children have lived for the past three weeks in a room at the Salvation Army, while Steve has stayed with a friend or slept in the car, but they may have to leave there soon. 
"They've (the Salvation Army) been great," Ms: Mahan said, "but they're not set up for long-term help. Their space is tight, and it's not feasible for them. There aren't a lot ofresources for situations like this." 
Where will they go? "it beats the hell out ofme," Steve rep t lied. "Back to the car, I guess." 
A tracheatomy was performed on Jessie, born eight weeks premature, immediately after birth so she could breathe. She is fed through a tube in· serted into her nose and is doing well enough that she recently was removed from an incubator. 
Dr. James Lemons, professor of pediatrics at Indiana University Medical Center and a neonatologist in Rilev's newborn intensive care unit, sald there are medical records ofonlv one or two such cases in the world.-and no recod ofsuch a case ever occurring in the United States.

rob;;;---, 
/ correction t 
In the ninth paragraph of yes­tterday's l'nited \X'ay article on  tt  
Apage  4., the  words  "table  of  A  
' fortune" should read "table at LafFortune."  ' A  

~~~~~~~~~ 
ST. JUDE 0 Holy St. Jude, Apostte and Martyr, great in virtue and rich in miracle$, neor Kinsman of J-Christ, FoitMul interceuor of oil who invoke your special patronage in time of need, to )'OU 1hove recourse fTom the ~ of my heart and humbly be<,;i to ~ God hos given such greo'· power, to come to my assistance. K me in my prewnt and urgent petit • In return I promose to make your 1M known and cause you to be • ked. Soy ttv.. Our Fothen, three rloil Marys and Glorios. For nine consecutive days. Publication must be promised. St. Judepray for us ond oil who invoke your oid. Amen. This Novena has _, been known to fail, I hove.hpd rrrr request anted. J.N. 

normal transportation to Boston. Nearly 17,500 were affected by the national rail strike. See related story on page one. (AP Photo) 
Analysts skeptical 


Economy lilts tor second quarter 
Doctors do not believe it was a hereditary problem. 
"It's extremely rare, and because of that, it's hard to tell what's going to happen in the future," Lemons said, adding that doctors are ap­proaching the case "very carefully." 
Steve said he has been trying for weeks to find a place to live with enough room for his family and its newest member, who will need medical equipment by her bedside when she returns home. 
He said he cannot find a landlord who will allow them to move in before making the first month's pay· ment. If he could establish a residence, then he could be eligible for local emergency financial help to pay the rent. 
He is not now eligible for workmen's compensation, and the paperwork to get the family money from Social s«urity or Aid to De· pendent Children is still being processed and may take at least an­other month or two. 
Ms. Mahan is doing all she can to help the family find a home, since a residence and electricity would be needed to provide forJessie's care. 
Steve, who ruptured a disc while workingat a steel mill two years ago, was operated on a second time in February, and doctors told him not to return to work until next sum­mer. 



CORBY'S 
Molson Gold Nite $1 per bo 
• 

WASHINGTON (AP) -The na· "tla.'lh estimate" ofeconomic growth tion's economy is inching ahead for in the still-unfinished July· the second quarter in a row, govern· September quarter projected a gain ment officials contended yesterday. at an annual rate of just I. 5 percent, But skeptical private analysts said following a revised April-June pace the new estimates, even if true, of 2.1 percent, officials said. wouldn't add up to recovery from A White House spokesman called the year-long recession. the new estimate "encouraging," 
The Commerce Department's but neither he nor other administa· 
tion officials would go so far as to 
predict robust recovery soon. 
The economy had reeled· to declines at annual rates of 5.3 per· cent and 5. 1 percent in the final quarter of 1981 and the first three months ofthis year. 
Two straight quarters of growth after such a downturn would nor· mally be considered a a strong sign that recession had ended and expan­sion had begun. And White House spokesman Larry Speakes made just that point in a meeting with repor· ters. 
But the small size of the gains recorded for the second quarter and estimated for the third have left the question open. 
In addition, private economists said previous government figures showing national industrial produc­tion and retail sales down substan­tially in August make even the small projected summer-quarter increa.o;e unlikely for the overall economy. 
Adding to the bad short-term economic news, the cretlit· information firm Dun & Bradstreet Corp. said yesterday that business failures surged lao;t week, pushing the 1982 total through mid­September to the highest level for anv full vear since 19:B. 
An esiimated 65' commercial and industrial concerns closed hae1r doors or were forced to seek court protection under the federal Bankruptcy Code last week, the company said. With more than three months remainin8 in 1982, the year's total thus far is 17,502, the highest since 19.B, when 19,859 business failures were recorded, Dun & Bradstreet said. 
Treasury Secretary Donald T. Regan, speaking to business ex­ecutives in New York, said, "Based on the facts at my disposal, I can say that the U.S. economy has one leg over the fence that divides stagna­tion from growth." 
. .. Lebanon 

continuedfrom page I 
that it wa~ "essential"' Israel withdraw its troops from Beirut. He warned the Israelis, who invaded Lebanon june 6 to rout the Palestine Liberation Organization, that they were sinking "more deeply into the quagmire." 
U.S. Defense Secretary Ca~par Weinberger told CBS news yester­day that the 800 I'.S. Marines who spent Aug. 2 S to Sept. I 0 in Beirut are on leave in Italy and could be back in Lebanon within 72 hours. 
"They will not be a police force. They will not he patrolling the streets of Beirut," said Weinberger. who added the Marines will be withdrawn if comblit breaks out. 

: SFC Hamilton 234-4187 : 
t -tl
o Irish Beat Purdu 

~ -tl
: .AriiiQ. !leall You Can Be. -tt 
•*********1*****·~~***************~ 
*~?**~******************~~********~
: Tne Army is Offering an $8,0oo Bonus !!!!: 

: Opportunities in the Army have always been good, : : but now they are even better!!!! -tc -tc Ifyou are a high school graduate, you may qualify fo¢ : an $8,000 bonus when you enlist for four years. In :
--,
/ \.. 


: addition to this special bonus, every person who -tc -tc enlists in the Army earns these benefits: : : -30 days paid vacation a year : : -Free medical and dental care -tc -tc -A~signment locations around the world : : -Housing for service member and dependents : -tc -Training for skills ranging from Message Decoder t~ : Pershing Missile Crewman : 
-tl -tl 

: SEE IF YOU QUALIFY : 
-tl • 
: CALL YOUJt LOCAL ARMY JtECB.UITIB. : 
r d. · · 1
E ttorta s 
Wednesday, September 22, 1982-page 6 
Questioning the stereotypes of N.0./SMC women 
In the blue comer -sporting dirty grey sweats and a bowl of ice cream -is Suzy Domer. Suzy eats nails for breakfast every morning, loves to mud wrestle, and finds doing next month's calculus to be her favorite weekend activity. 
In the red corner -sporting green and pink Pappagalo's running attire -is Suzy SMC Chick. Suzy swallows air for breakfast every morning, loves to paint her nails, and enjoys husband hunting as her favorite weekend activity. 
Diane Dirkers 
Campus Quips 

Do these descriptions sound familiar? They should. These are the wonderful stereotypes that have set Notre Dame women and St. Mary's women against each other for the past eleven years. 
Let's take a good look at the true meanings ofthese stereotypes. What we. have here is yet another example ofthe role crisis that women ofAmerica are facing today. 
The "Domer" is the ambitious woman, who sacrifices every other aspect ofher life just to get ahead. She may be a highly respected member ofthe business world, but she is con­sidered to be cold, asexual, and masculine. 
The "SMC chick" is the aesthetic beauty-the vision ofmaternal femininity. She is a won­derful wife and mother whose only ambition is to keep her husband and children happy. 
It is ironic that two campuses full of bright and self-proclaimed open-minded students cannot seem to accept the fact that the smart can be feminine and the .feminine can be smart. 
I have always felt that the root of these fic­titious roles has been the Notre Dame "all­male school" mentality that will not accept the presence ofwomen on the NO campus. 
The method is simple. Dominate the Domers by stripping their femininity. Dominate the Saint Mary's women by strip­ping their intelligence level. Lo and behold ­the almighty Domer male is 1! 
The psychology behind this can and does work to a point. Luckily, U1ere is still a majority of Domer women who remain confi­dent oftheir femininity and a majority ofSaint Mary's women who remain confident of their intellectual capabilities. Self-identity has been left intact. Unfortunately, relationships be· tween Notre Dame co-eds and Saint Mary's students are severely hampered. 
What students must realize is that the dif­ferences are contrived. The typical student of either school is a bright young woman ­more than likely from a Catholic middle·to­upper class family -with essentially the same values, goals, and ambitions. As fellow par­ticipants in the world of Domet'land life, we 

a~ faced with many ofthe same situations and difficulties. Yet the "crossover" relationships are few· and far between. 
Competition over which is the "better" school, and why the choice was made to at­tend either institution is absolutely bogus. Does it really matter? Since when does per­sonal preference become an issue of who's right? 
Some people love to throw wild parties where the kegs flow freely. Others like small, intimate get-togethers with a few close friends. Some women prefer the close friendships, female comaradery, and low stu­dent/ faculty ratio that a small women's col­lege has w offer. Others prefer a larger, coeducational university with more course offerings, but a much higher student/ faculty ratio. 
Who's right? 
Who cares? 

So what can be done, you ask? Unfortunate­ly, we are dealing with prejudice here, and at­titudes are very hard to ·alter. The best· solution is for the students ofboth institutions to really get to know each other through repeated contact. 
It is quite evident that parties in Domerland are only superficial events. Other oppor-
What lies behind Reagan's doubletalk 
The newest genre of music is "New Musik," ofwhich a good example is the group Public Image Limited. The lyrics in this music are nonsensical and serve as a facade behind which the actual message lies. The message appears to be: "Don't believe what is said, but what is inferred." This is generally accepted practice in the artistic world. 
Robert Uoyd Snyder 
Then Mid-week 

Yet, when one enters the field of United States politics, such ambiguity in information has generally spelled trouble for those who indulge in misstatement and "double-talk." There are many prominent cases ofpoliticians who were crucified by the media for glaring misstatement; Alexander Haig's "I'm in con­trol" line from last year, Gerald Ford's conten­tion in the 1976 debates that Poland was not under Soviet domination, Nixon's "I am not a crook" claim from 1974. The press has often been overdiligent in its crucifixion of politicians or public officials who have inad­ventently put their foot in their mouths: after all, this is the real world, not punk rock. 
Curiously enough, we currently have in power a President who has made more mis­statements in his two years in office than any ofhis predecessors, some ofwhom had served terms ofeight years or longer, and who has yet to suffer the political repercussions ofhis ver­bal blunders. 
Indeed, the list of double-takes and "misspeaks" of our current President and his Administration is formidable. Last Saturday, our Chief Executive claimed that the Israeli re-invasion of West Beirut was triggered by the"fact" that Israeli troops were fired upon, a claiJTl that not even the Israelis would main­t?..in. Remember George Bush and his classic labeling. "Voodoo Economics?" or David Stockman, our man in the Office ofBudget and Management, claiming that "no one really un­derstands what all these (budget) numbers mean." Week after week, Reagan has mis­
stated or invented facts that only recently the 
Washington press corps has started to attack. 
Following every press conference that Reagan 
has held for the past year or so, there has been 
a follow-up meeting of the press corps with a 
senior Administration official to clear up 
Reagan's errors, terming them "backg,ound 
notes." 
It would be easy to blame this situation on the fact that Reagan has relied primarily upon press clippings for his information previous to his term in the White House. It would also be simplistic to attribute this source of national embarrassment to the assertion of a member ofthe White House press corps that Reagan is "an incompetent, foolish, backwards-looking old man." Ronald Reagan's tendency to mis­state was no different during his campaign for President than it is now. The blame for the constant misinformation can only be placed upon the American people (some ofwhomal­ready blame themselves) and the Washingwn · press corps. The press at the White House, seemingly intimidated by Reagan's casual ease in dealing with the media and his "mandate" of the 1980 election, has performed in a cowardly manner in confronting Reagan. The difference in the diligence of the press be­tween the treatment ofthe Carter and Reagan 
administrations is all too obvious. 
I doubt that this will continue much longer. The press will probably be encouraged by the results ofthe November elections, and will go after Reagan with a renewed vengence. I think that we will see a Presidency "under siege" starting in December, if not sooner. Our Presi­dent will probably make fewer appearances than the few token briefings he currently conducts--the only likely way that the mistatements will stop. 
Maybe it does not matter to some that we have an Administration that confuses its allies, misleads the Congress, and often fabricates in­formation that is released to the American public. Perhaps it should not matter, as the "public Presidency" is not nearly as important as the "behind-the-scenes Presidency," but I think that the disorganization that has been evident in the "public Presidency," sup­possedly Reagan's forte, may be some indica­tion ofwhy we have no public policy, or why the U.S. has reversed itself on a multitude of issues, ranging from the "pipeline issue" to million dollar "tax augmentations." 

But if it does matter to you, look beyond the "nonsense" of this Administration, and ex­amine what is really happening in Washing­ton. Reagan's Public Image is Limited by the fact that like "New Musik," you have to look beyond the "first listening" to understand what Is really going on. 

tunities to meet genuine friends from the "opposite campus" do exist, however. I know quite a few Notre Dame females 
who returned from studies abroad with com­plete reversals in attitude towards Saint Mary's women. They comment that the whole conflict is absolutely ridiculous. 
Sociologists who study prejudice have determined that when people are placed in situations where they must work together, negative attitudes are usually tossed aside. Perhaps that is why most Observerites and members of other organizations which are composed of students from both schools ­find the antagonism berween Notre Dame and Saint Mary's inexcusable. 
Sue Flynn, Student Activities Commissioner at Saint Mary's, is planning a picnic "for women only" in the near future. It should be an excellent opportunity to intermingle with­out the presence of Notre Dame men , who tend to be a segregating influence at social gatherings. 
' .. 

The status quo will remain until positive ef­forts are made on the part ofall students, male and female. 
Living in the arctic town of South Bend is enough of a tragedy. Do we really need any contrived antagonism to make things worse? 
P.O.BoxQ 
Game day parking 
Dear Editor, 
I am currently very distressed about the security policy of not allowing students to drive on campus. I do realize that there are many good reasons for this policy, and it is reassuring for me to know that not just anyone is allowed to drive all around our secluded campus. Nonetheless, an incident that occurred on Friday afternoon, Sept. 17, has convinced me that the tightness of security when dealing with studnets can, at times, be ridiculous. 
Three friends and I went shopping that af­ternoon. When we left it hasn't raining, but when we returned to campus it was pouring. We stopped at the main gate to see if we could drive to our dorm in order to drop off our packages and get an unbrella before we parked the car. The driver was perfectly wil­ling to give the security guard her driver's license in return for a 25 minute pass (a policy with which many students are familiar). The security guard did not grant our request, although we did see that he was allowing numerous other cars on campus. 
I realize that this was the weekend of the Michigan game and the security department was very busy, but Notre Dame is the stu­dent's home· football weekend or not. Yet, football weekends aren't the only time we have trouble getting on to our own campus. It is my feeling that, in the proper cir­cumstances, students should be allowed to receive a 15 minute pass to drive on campus. 
Sincerely, Molly Maher WalsbHa/1 


Editorial Board DepanxnentManage~
==Ihe_Obseaer== 
T be Oh rerver is an independent newspaper published by the stndents of the 

Editor-in-Cbief..............................Michael Monk 
Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 

Managing Editor ................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller .............................................Eric Schulz 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news i~ report· 

Executive News Editor .........................Kelli Flint Advertising Manager .......................Chris Owen
ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of 

SMC Executive Editor ............Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager ..................Maura Murphy 
a majority of the Editorial Board. Co.nmentaries, opinions and letters are the views 

Sports Editor ............, .....................Chris Needles Circulation Manager ..........................Ray Inglin
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 

EO:itunais Editor .............................Paul McGinn Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley 
the free expression of varying opimons on campus, through letters, ii ~~~~£iged. 

Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown 
Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame;!~ ~556 (219) 239-5303 

--~------·~----·~~----------.-------·---------~---..-----..---------.~----~---------------. 

At the bottom of my soul 

0 
kay, everybody stand, feet shoulder length apart, resting comfortably on the whole ofyourfoot. Closeyoureyes and concentrate. Try to find your "center'', that place inside where all ofyour energy originatesfrom. Breathing deeply,feel where your center is. Do youfeel it? 
No. 
A Chorus Line's Diana Morales, and Ishared the same feeling. When we dug right down to the bottom ofour souls, we felt nothing. 
Tarl Brown 
features 

With my eyes closed, standing on the fiats ofmy feet, the only feeling I had was my weightedness, my ab· solute dependence upon gravity. The other students in my class could describe how they felt pulled along a . guywire that was attached a point in their abdomen or their chest. 
I, in my turn, felt nothing. ~Qt!t!n.-$ c;x~ep~ fC?f~h~ rock oftel)~on ?ui}?,~ng UJ:> in .. my stomach. I must have been doing Something wrong. Everyone felt something but I felt nothing. Last Thursday night, comfortably resting on the whoie of my foot; I looked out into the darkness from the stairs ofLaFortune. The peace ofthe evening hours invited me to take a few minutes and stroll through ·. campus. With nothing on my mind, I accepted the in· vitation. I wandered, my mind and senses unoccupied except for the slight chill ofthe cool lake breeze and the aware­ness ofthe extraordinary white light radiating from the portable stadium lighting system. 
Some people I know would tell me that in those minutes I was "in touch" with life. The only thing that I was "intouch" with was a feeling ofutter emptiness. 
The emptiness frightened me. I knew that there was something there./ knew. 
I knew and that told me one thing; my mind was my center.My mind. 
A startling revelation. 
My mind knew it should not feel empty but itdid not seem to realize that what I was feeling was entirely dif· 
ferent from what I knew. It could tell me that I should not feel empty, but the reality ofthe situation was that I felt empty. Period. 
With this small debate brewing. I walked toward the grotto. The grotto has never held any magnetic appeal for me. Strangely enough, it seemed to draw me. And I followed. 
As I took my seat on one ofthe iron benches, I watched the students praying on bended knee. I laughed to myselfwhen I thought about how many of them were probably praying that they would pass their 


·Friday morning Emil quiz. What a naive, innocent prayer, 1 thought. 

c~~%~z:~.~:;~~;e~e~.~~~~:~.T.~;~~~~~ .. ··'""·~···~: •.C.h0.8.~ ..~ ,of.. ~.~ Ze.pp.eIin '' 
As I sat, wallowing in my seeminglfsuperior air, my eyes were fixed upon those people. Repeatedly, as if chanting a mantra, I said to my~lf, "They are full of something." 
I realized that, however cliched it may sound, they were full of"grace.". Full ofgrace is full ofGod and they radiated the love ofGod and His presence within them. God was their center ofactivity, ofthought, ofall of their energies. 
I had found their center. In the quiet moments there'I was aware that I had found mine, too. My center. My God. 
TtiviQ's second QnnivetSQty 

~is week marks two different .1 milestones in the history of my rock trivia column. 
First, two years ago this week the quiz made its Observer debut. The exact date was Thursday, September 25, 1980. Tim "Scoop" Sullivan, then music editor, wrote the introduc­tion to it, which said in part, "The following is the first ofa series of rock trivia quizzes which will appear weekly ... in The Observer. Tim 
Tim Neely 
rock trivia 

Neely, the author, has excerpted these from his yet unpublished book on rock·n·roll and popular music trivia, and has provided them with the intention ofstumpingand other· wise driving supposed rock experts out oftheir minds ...." I suppose that is still at least part ofits inten­tion today. (And by the way, two years later the book is still un­
published!) 
Second, question 9 is the 500th question (all different, by the way) in the column's history. You may ask how it is possible for number 9 to be it when I ask ten questions a week. Well, I'm glad you asked. In the early days ofthe column, it was literally that -a column running the entire length ofthe page. One time I ran what I called a "Double Neely" (20 questions), and another time I had an eleventh question as a bonus. Therefore, 49 quizzes, 501 ques­tions. (This does not include two semi-serious quizzes I create~ for the paper's annual April Fool's Day parody.) 
So much for milestones. Back to 
business. 
Before I tackle last week's 
answers, here is a slight correction 
to the answer I published last week 
on True Taylor. Yes, he was Paul 
Simon, so the answer was right. The explanation was wrong. Simon didn't do "He Was My Brother" un­der that name; he used another phony name, Paul Kane. Under "True Taylor," he recorded a deser· vedly obscure song called "True or False." 
Now on to last week's answers. I 
asked you to name replacements for 
people in bands. The replacement is 
in italics; the rest ofthe question in 
normal type. 
l. Ringo Starr replaced Pete Best as drummer ofthe Beatles (one of the easiest questions I've ever of­fered). 
2. 
Steve Holly replacedJoe English as drummer ofWings. 

3. 
Phil Collins replaced Peter Gabriel as lead singer ofGenesis (a change from within, as Collins was -and still is -the band's drummer; only when Gabriel left did he begin singing with Genesis). 


4.MikeMurphy replaced Kevin Cronin as lead singer of REO Speed· wagon who, in turn, was replaced by Kevin Cronin (Murphy sang lead on "Ridin' the Storm Out"). 
5. 
Donnie Dacus replaced Terry Kath as Chicago's lead guitarist. 

6. 
Denis Marks replaced AI Jardine in the Beach Boys for the Surfin' U.SA. album; after that, AI Jardine returned to the fold and 


Marks was out. 
7. Cindy Birdsong replaced Florence Ballard in the Supremes. 
8. Peter Green andJeremy Spen­cer were replaced by Christine Per­fect McVie and Bob Welch in Fleetwood Mac. 
9. Timothy Schmit replaced Randy Meisner in the Eagles. 
I 0. Patrick Moraz was the keyboardist who replaced Rick Wakeman in Yes the first time he left, and also replaced Mike Pinder in the Moody Blues. 
And on we go to the Second An· niversay Trivia Quiz. One of my favorite topics in rock, one I used once back in 1980, was how bands got their names. Here are ten more, none ofwhich were in that first quiz. Identify the bands. 
l. This San Francisco-based band got its name from a sick (and probably drug-induced) joke about one ofthe great blues singers ofall time. 
2. 
Another group which was in· fluenced by the blues in its name, they took theirs from the first names oftwo Georgia bluesmen whose last names were Anderson and Council. 

3. 
Obviously influenced by Chicago Transit Authority, this short-lived group ofthe late 60s and early 70s took its name from a West Coas.t utility company. 

4. 
This popular band ofthe early 1970s took its name from an Australian aborigine term for a very cold evening. 

5. 
Abriefpop phenomenon ofthe late 1970s stole its name from anoth· er group with the same name that had recorded for Capitol Records (the new group's label, also) in the late 1960s. 

6. 
They took their moniker from a British slang term (which has since also become an American slang term) for "homosexual." 

7. 
Their name came from the fact that none ofthe original band mem· bers was more than five feet, nine inches tall; after a few personnel changes, they had to alter their name. 

8. 
This rock band, influenced by the blues musically, took their name from the nickname ofa great jazz 

saxophonist. 

9. 
One day the lead singer ofa nameless band was thumbing through his girlfriend's beauty magazines and came across a word which, after slight manipulation and a gender change, became the name ofhis band. 

10. 
This band took its name from words that Winston Churchill never said -at least not in that order, al· though it is commonly arsurned that he did. 



I
t's s been almost two years now since the death ofdrummerJohn Bonham ended the career ofthe heavy metal band Led Zeppelin. Rumors as to the activities ofthe remaining band members have circulated through the music world since then, including several storiesofa Led Zeppelin reformation. Last year, the three remaining members of Led Zeppelin went into the studio with several ex-Yes members under the name XYZ but nothing has materialized of the collaboration as ofyet. 
VIc Sciulli 
record review 

The lateJuly release of Robert Plant'sPictu~s at Eleven was a great surprise to many. Plant, the former lead singerfor Zeppelin~~ reportedly still very shaken by the death ofhis fellow band member and was not yet ready to record again. Pictu~s atEleven, however, reaffirms Plant's status as rock's top male vocalist, still capable ofbelting out vocals which are not drowned out by a thunderous band. 
"Burning Down One Side" opens side one. Cozy Powell, former drummer for Rainbow and Phil Collins ofGenesis share the drum· ming task on the album and pound out a powerful backbeat through the song. Plant's voice, however, sounds strained and the song's lyrics are distorted and unclear. (The album does not provide a lyric sheet so you'll have to bear with it.) 
The quiet and smoky "Moonlight in Samosa", with its gentle guitar is one ofthe few non-heavy metal songs on the album. The most ob· viouscomparison may be Zeppelin's"All My Love",from the group's final effort, In Through The OutDoor. 
By the end ofside one, the comparison to many Zeppelin classics becomes more and more apparent. The guitar and bass work by band members Paul Martinez and Robbie Plunt is hauntingly similar to the sound ofZeppelin'sJimmy Page andJohn-PauiJones; Powell and Collins' drum work is almost impossible to distinguish from Bon· ham's. This similarity can be largely attributed to Plant himself, who not only penned all ofthe album's lyrics but produced the album as well. The album's production is surprisingly crisp for a heavy-metal album with an absence ofover-distortion. 
The album's dark and heavy sound is a throw back to Zeppelin's Houses ofthe Holy. Considering thatPictu~s is the first major work from a former Zeppelin member, the lack ofcontinuity between it and/n Through the OutDoor is rather surprising. OutDoor was not aswidely accepted by many Zeppelin fans becauseofits quieter and more mature sound. Tracks like "Hot Dog" and "All My Love" were almost outofcharacterfor the band. This broaderapproach is almost completely lacking onPictu~s. The release ends up becoming a rehash ofan earlier Zeppelin sound. Plant takes far too few risks. 
The album is certainly not a loss, however; there are a number of great moments throughout which give hope for a more ambitious follow-up. Raphael Ravenscroft's breezy sax belies a suppressed in· tensity on "Pledge Pin", one ofthe album's more widely played tracks. The sv... ~::.p.:.;ed ::··'•--~"<1 r1rum intro on the song is a sharp contrast to the"~ -·-• ....;t~-leads ofmany ofthe album's tracks. 
"Worse man Detroit" is one ofthe few blues numbers on the al· bum, though it's a far cry from the blues of"Led Zeppelin 1". The in· tro to "Slow Dancer" hearkens back to "Kashmir", one ofZep's more foreboding classics. 
Judging by the initial success ofthe album, there~ still a strong audience for the sound Zeppelin made famous. Plant, however, providesfar too few creative innovations and by the album'send one may begin to wonder whether this is just another cheap attempt to capitalize on Led Zeppelin. Let's hope the few sparks ofinnovation shine brighter and harder on any future projects. 
, I 
~jb()1itS:l:)=:~:t:·~~=S=============================W=e=d=n=es=d=~='=Se=p=te,m=b=e=r2=2='=19=8=2===p=ag=e==8
By The Ohsen1er and The Associtlled Press 
Mark Bavaro, Notre Dame's second-string tight end, has been sidelined for about four weeks due to a non-football injury. According to Coach Faust, Bavaro injured his hand when he tried to hold open a glass door. He and his friends were returning to the dorm with a pizza when the incident occured. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Sailing Club will hold its weekly meeting today at 6:30 p.m. at the boathouse on St. Joe's Lake. Discus­sion will include upcoming regattas at Detroit, Marquette, and Mich­igan. Membership cards will be distributed. As always, new members are welcome. -The Observer 
Pete Rose drove in two runs with a single and a sacrifice fly, and Garry Maddox singled home two more to cap a three-run, fifth­inning rally, leading the Philadelphia Phillies to a 5-2 victory over the St. Louis Cardinals last night behind Steve Carlton's 14-strikeout per­formance. Carlton, 21-10, scattered nine hits, walking two, to halt St. Louis' winning streak at eight games. By winning, Philadelphia moved within 4. 5 games of the first-place Cardinals in the National League East. Fielding errors by St. Louis in the third and fifth innings accounted for four Philadelphia runs off Cardinal starter Gary Ras­mussen, 0-1, including all three in the decisive fifth. Tied at 2-2, Philadelphia capitalized on third baseman Kelly Paris' error on Ivan Dejesus' leadoffgrounder. After Carlton sacrificed and Bob Dernier lined out, Rose singled home DeJesus, and Maddox delivered his hit after Gary Matthews singled and Mike Schmidt walked to load the bases. -AP 
The Saint Mary's tennis ream's meet with 
Manchester College yesterday was cancelled due to rain_ Jt has been rescheduled for Tuesday, Sept. 28. The: team's next match will be held Friday at Indiana State -TIH Oburwr 

The Saint Mary's Volleyball team swept three matches from Grace College, raising its record to I-1, yesterday. The Belles won 15-8, 15-9, and l i-15. The team plays again Friday at Lake Forest College in Illinois. -The Observer 
Daryl Sconiers' first hit of the season, a single in the ninth, drove in pinch-runner Gary Pettis last night and gave the California Angels a'Z-I victory over the Kansas City Royals. The win gave the Angels a two-game lead over the Royals in the American League West. Sconiers, who wast .0-for-8 until his game-winning hit, slapped a 3-2 pitch from Dan Quisenberry up the middle to the delight of an Anaheim Stadium crowd of 52,415. Ken Forsch, 13-10, held the Royals to seven hits while notching his 12th complete game ofthe season. Bobby Grich started the Angels' winning rally against Quisenberry, 8-6, with a one-out single before Pettis ran for Grieb and moved to second on a sharp single by Bob Boone. The Royals tied the score in the eighth inning on a walk to John Wathan,Jamie Quirk's single and an error by third baseman Doug DeCinces on Willie Wilson's grounder. -AP 
The ND-SMC Bicycling Club will hold its first ride at 3:30 p.m. tomorrow. The ride will be about 10 miles long. Meet at the Lyons basketball courts. -The Observer 
The ND Irish Flyers Club is being revived. 
Anyone interested can call 277-6726 for information. -The Ob­
server 

ND Hang Gliding Club is being organized. Call 
Ted Toeme at 287-7717 for information. -The Observer 
: :::::~:~::::::· 
-;:::;:: 'BASEBALL 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

w  l  Pet.  GB  
St. LOUIS  87  64  .576  
Ph•ladelph•a  82  68  547  45  
Montreal  80  70  533  65  
Pittsburgh  79  71  527  75  
Ch1cago  68  83  450  19  
New York  58  92  387  28 5  
West  
Los Angeles  85  66  563  
Atlanta  82  69  543  3  
San Franc1sco  79  71  527  5.5  
San D1ego  76  75  503  9  
Houston  71  80  470  14  
C1nt1nnat1  56  94  373  28 5  

Yesterday'lfleaulla New York 2-1 Montreal 1-5 ( 1 sl game 10 1) Ch1cago 1. Pittsburgh 0 Cinc1nnati 6. San Franc1sco 5 Houston 5, Atlanta 3 Ph1ladelph1a 5. St Louis 2 San 01ego 3. Los Angeles 0 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

w L Pet. GB Milwaukee 90 61 .596 Baltimore 88 63 .583 2 Boston 83 68 .550 7 Detroit 75 74 503 14 New York 74 77 .490 16 Cleveland 73 76 .490 16 Toronto 70 81 464 20 
WHI Cahlorma 86 65 .570 KansasC~y 84 67 .556 2 Chw:ago 79 71 .527 6.5 Seanle 72 78 480 13.5 Oakland 63 88 .417 23 Texas 60 91 397 26 M1nnesota 57 94 377 29 
Ywtw.,........,.. Detroit 1 t. BaMimora I Basion 4, Mdw•ukee 3 (I0 inn.) 
California 2. KanSliS Crty 1 

The ObMrver w111 accept classtfieds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4 30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear tn the neJCt issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to insertton. All classffieds must be prepaid. either in person or through the ma1l 
Classifieds
... ;•,. 

====================================================~ 
NOTICES 
IS YOUR HAIR GETTING IN THE WAY OF YOUR STUDIES?? CALL MICHOLE FOR A HAIRCUT TODAY! ONlY $4 FOR GUYS AND S6 FOR GIRLS BEST TO CALL AFTER 3 AT 7850 
Improve Your Grades! Research catalog ··306 pages--1 0.278 
w6Fi0 PRocEsSING SYSTEM $2995 64K Microcompuler.lener quality printer. word processing software. CP/M. Basic. 
Call277-7720 
CAR PROBlEMS?? 
I AM A QUALIFIED MECHANIC WITH 
LOTS OF EXPERIENCE AND LOWER 
RATES THAN ANY GARAGE!! CALL 
TODAY FOR A FREE ESTIMATE JOHN 
AT 1852 
The OBUD 24-hour phone hne is now open. Call 239-0BUD With your· campus com· plaints. 
LEARN FLYING FOR $450.CALL 277­6726 
$50 REWARD for return. in good condition. of my blue. 12-speed Fuji bike. stolen from Fisher Hall Call Mike at3070 
Want to succeed 1n the Class Room Want 
to be R1ch Want to be successful? For 
more information wnte to· 
JOE CAMPBELL ASSOCIATES 
26 Dnvers Lane 
Laurel Spnngs. NJ 0802 t 
SALES REPS WANTED 
LOST/FOUND-\ 
FOUND A KEYCHAIN CONTAINING THREE KEYS. CONTAINS GOLD MEDAL CALL TOM AT 1167 
LOST: Spalding baseball glove on the f1eld across from Moreau Semmary Friday afternoon. Please call Dave, 3458 if found. 
To .,homever stole/mistakenly took my hghl Jacket from C/D line 1n the North D1n1ng Hall Fnday Sept 17. I m freez1ng my blank off. Its while w1fh a blue stripe and has my laundry tag 1n 1t. Please return to 81 BGrace. no questiOns asked 
LOST· 1 pa~r of glasses and 1 student ID at Green F1eld Saturday It found. please call Mary at6751 
$25 REWARD: CLASS RIH.G LOST AT PEP RALLY. IF FOUND CALL OB­SERVER AND LEAVE MESSAGE. 
;->JUNO: 1 F1eld Hockey Stick at Pep Ral­ly on Fnday. If 11's yours call 3101. Descnbe it and ifs yours. 
FOUND Set of keys at football game in Section 31. See Sh<rtey 1n THE OB· SERVER off1ce 
LOST: Set of keys at N.D. football game PURPLE RABBIT'S FOOT anached WI keys. If found. please call 283-6865. Reward for its return-$$$. 
LOST• i~th~~ici~iiyof St~p~~ Ce~t~r FrL 
nile, room key on vw key ring If found, call Steve 185 7 
LOST: A black William Barry designer jacket. REWARD olfered if found. CAlL PAT or TONY-8744 
lOST: Nikes. red and while. on the North Ouad, on Fnday 9117. If found call Brian at1441 
L--FO_R_R_EN_T----~j 
ROOMATE WANTED-To help share 2­bedroom furnished apartment Located in Turtle Creek Apls.. 10 min walk from campus. Call an ytlme at277• 8596 Or 283­4263. 
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED FOR NOTRE DAME AVE APTS AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY, LEASE THRU X-MAS at $90/mth. CALL x1813 
Furnished 5-room apt • has 3 fnendly females. needs 4th Rent now · Xmas, NO Apts. Call LIZ x4263
I 
TICKETS 
· 1..-----------~ 
Willmg to sacnflce VIRGINITY /money (m that order) for 2 PURDUE tlx BE­CKY/CHRIS 8708·07 
Wanted: 2 Purdue Tickets Call M1ke at 234-3224 
DESPERATE! WILL GIVE UP MY FIRST BORN SON FOR 2 MIAMI GAS CALL DENNIS-3383 
Reliable babysttter wanted for twtns 18mo old. once a week for 4 hours. Calf evemngs 232-5522 
WANTED USED COUCH, BAR, SHELVES X2197 
I NEED MARY KAY COSMETICS Call x1813 
Terminally 111 younger brother wants to see N.D game before the last roundup Help out a cute k1d w1th PURDUE, MIAMI. ARIZONA. or PENN students or GAs Call 8024 -·-11me IS runnmg out!!! 
! need nde to Chtcago th1s weekend wtll share costs 277-8612 
Need 1 M1am1 student or G A . Paul 3436 
NEED  RIDERS  TO  ND  FROM  
CLEVELAND  LEAVING  9-24  CALL  
RICH x8193  

FOR SALE 
WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM. $2995 64K Microcomputer. letter quality pnnter, word process1ng software. CP/M. Bas1c Call277-7720 
For Sate: Set ol e1ght place settings. dtshwasher-proot Melanme: also coffee­gnnder, hot plate Ideal 1f mov1ng off campus Pr~ce of all items. $30. dishes on­ly. $15. Cat1239-6470 dayt1mes 
77 Fil BBIT CLEAN XCLNT COND 277: 6726 
FOR SALE:CCM Super Tacks brand new..Pro-lite blades size 8 Larry x1722 
Smith-Corona manual por1able lypewr~er. Like new. 284-5638 
26 in. man·s bicycle with electric motor. $195.683-1118 
,__I_W_A_N_TE_D--J 
Need Purdue GA·s 289· 7640 
I need 2 Purd... GA'a. PLEASEIIII Call John Hlggtna at 287-4186 (nlghta) or 23&-5323 and LEAVE A MESSAGEII 
Help celebrate Dads 55th birthday: desperately need 4 student and/or GAs for the Miam1 game Will buy in pa<rs Call Jim-1152. 
Need PURDUE GAs or Student tickets $$$. Call287-3538 after 6. 
I'M A DEAD MAN 1f I don·! come up With 3 MIAMI GAs andfor 4 ARIZ. GAs Help save my very valuable ($$$$) neck' call PHIL at 8295, even 1f you only have 1 or 2 
need 2 GA s for ARIZONA game call Lauren (smc} 5072 
Need Purdue Student and GAs Phil 1764 
DESPERATELY NEED GA TIXS FOR PURDUE PETE 232-1466 
NEED TWO OR MORE ARIZONA TICK­ETS!!!!' PLEASE CALL MICHELE AT 3793 IF YOU CAN HELP 
Need 2 GA tiX to PENN s:r Call LIZ 284­5166 
NEEDED: 211ckets for Purdue game Call R1ch at x3210orx3213 
FOR SALE PURDUE.MIAMI.PENN TIX 239·7139 
NEED 2 PENN ST GAS WILL PAY$$$$ CALL RICH 4662 
W1ll trade two M1am1 GAs for two Anzona GAs Andy 8692/8697 
MIAMI TIX AND HOTEL ROOMS AVAIL CALL LARRY 277·3306 
Young. ambttlous male needs a DATE But if you·ve seen him. you know that he has a better shot at lootball tickets Need 2 or 4 student or GA s to Purdue or M1am1 CALL DAVE AT 6939 
LIKE FINE WINES? SAILORS? GET YOUR CHOICE OF EITHER Ch1cago Chnsltan Brothers and U S. Navy person­nel need as many ttx as poss1ble for Mtamt or An zona Call John at 1580 
HELP' TWO FRIENDLY BOILER­MAKERS WILL NOT BE SO FRIENDLY IF I DONT COME UP WITH 2 PURDUE TIX GA OR STUD PLEASE HLP CALL MEL8629 
I NEED 2 MIAMI GAS. CALL CATHY AT 6833 

Help Grandparents cheer Irish! I need 4 Purdue GAs All together or any 2 pairs Eric3663 
I need some PURDUES BAAAD!! Stu­dent or GA. Good Bucks. Chip289·8113. 
NEED 3 GAS FOR PURDUE AND 2 
G.A S FOR MIAMI. CALL KATHY AT 1833 
NEED PURDUE STUDENT TIX. CAll 1193 
Need 2 or 4 M1am1 GAs. Call Mike x8715 
NEED TIX TO MIAMI AND ANY OTHER HOME GAME. CHRIS-1730 
Need 4 M1ami GAs call Larry. 1722 
Need 1 Student T1cket for Purdue Call Dan at1730 
Need Purdue GAs Call Caspar 277-3276 
Purdue tickets for sale Call 272· 7723 be­tween 6-8 PM 
need 2, 4, or 6 M1am1 GA. or student tiXS­277-8699 
Need 2 GA s for M1am1 game Please call tern al277-4820 or Nadme at1302. Will pay$$$' 
NEED 2 PURDUE GAS will pay lop dol­lar' KEVIN 1770 
need 2 Purdue 11x Good$$ Call Pat: 289· 7340 
NEED· STUDENT OR GAs: 3 Purdue. 2 M1am1. 2 Penn Sl MUST HAVE 8 GA S FOR ARIZ$ 
Sm1tty at 1061 

Have recently 1nher~ted FORTUNE. and wan! to blow 11 all on FOOTBALl TIX!!!!!! PURDUE MIAMI ARIZONA 
PENN Act NOW. before lflhentance tax eats 11 all upl!l!!l! Call Carolyn ext 8024 
TRADE 2 STUDENT PURDUE OR MIAMI OR CASH FOR 2 ARIZONA GA. DAN 288·8402 
SCREWED BY SYR Stuck w/12 GOOD ZZ TOP TIX !TOGETHER) Selling CHEAP Call Paul or Z1p at8437 
NEED PURDUE STUDENT TICKET 
NEED' 2GA & 3STU Purdue-Call SMC 4412 
I need One and only One PURDUE Stu· dent11cket Call283-1269or 1260andask lor Manlyn. 
HEY all you crazy Wild people out there" We need Tickets and w111 pay you all the money we have tor 2 Penn St GA's and 2 Miamt GA's Make two really sweet g~rls an offer. you wont be sorry! call very nch c1ndy or much well to do katie at 2948 NOW 
"EXTRA ATTENTION II JP needs 3 MIAMI GA TIX S orelse h1s Italian hance ts gomg to hang htm tf he doesn·l gett1ckets for her. her GODFAT­HER and Godmother JP pays more than Morgan Please call JP s h1tman. T1m at 
f574 NEE04 GAto PURDUE CALL PIERRE 813330 

two PURDUE 1ixs for sale call Rrta al 6797 
I Purdue stu ticket needed. 233-8163 
HELP! I need 2 tickets lor Purdue'! Call Ann. SMC-5092. 
FOR SALE-TWO PURDUE STUDENT TIX SERIOUS OFFERS ONLY CALL X1521 Dave 
Needed: Purdue & Penn SIIIX -·Call Jeff al277-0482 
MiAMi! i ~~ed 3 GA s BAD' Call K~v1n 1580 
HELP! desperately need PURDUE GAs call: Steve 1857 
I need Purdue Tix. Call1697 
need 2 student lix lo Purdue 7970 
need t1x tor m1ch1gan st call Ed 8944 
·NEED MIAMI GA S AND PURDUE STU TIX. CALL DON 277-4854 
PLEASE HELP ME1! I desperately need up to 4 GAs for the M1am1 game W1ll pay $$ Call Debb1e at 284-4311 
Four Pwdue GAs on 50!! Best offer. 277­6646 
HOT-TEMPERED BROTHER AND TWO COUSINS COMING FOR PURDUE GAME NEED TICKETS (STU ORGAS) DESPERATELY CALL CHRIS AT 1751 
Fam1ly com1ng and they need 4 TICKETS for the MIAMI game Please call Mark at 1177 and name your pnce 
HELP! PARENTS COMING ALL THE WAY FROM LITTLE FALLS.NY YES I SAID LITTLE FALLS IF I DONT FING 1 GA FOR THE MIAMI GAME THRERE TRIP WILL BE RUINED AND I WONT HAVE A HOME ANYMORE! PLEASE PH 3160 
Need Anzona fix for Ma and Pal Call Belie. 284-5332 
Yep,Me Tool I need two tix lor Purdue Stud or GA W1ll pay$$ call2960 
LAST CHANCE to SELL ME 2 MIAMI GAs Don·t m1ss thts once tn a hfettme opportunity--CALL Gerry at 277-3067'. 
PERSONALS 
MOLARITY: NO OUTLET Almost Iunny 

OMBUDSMEN PHONES ARE NOW OPEN FOR INFORMATION AND COM· PLAINTS Call between 12 and 5 Monday thru Fnday lor mfo Call 24 hours for campus compla1nts Phone 239-0BUD 
HELP' MY DAD IS VISITING NEXT . WEEKEND AND I DESPERA TEL Y NEED 1 GA FOR THE PURDUE GAME 
CALL ANNE AT x4321 

COMPETITION COLOR GUARD' Practice tomght. Stepan Center. 6:3010 8 
';N· 
Score, scono. score/ 

LOST: gold r~ng with 1n1bals S.J.P. on a key nng Room keys also on ring. Will pay REWARD. Call Steve at1182. 
LARRY Just when you thought it was safe to read the personals The return of MocrUd data! 
THE SEDUCER IS LOOSE!I NO Males Beware! Lock Up Your Liquor LAURA 
THE·WAlLS-ARE-SPINNtNG LARKNER Is Now a LEGAl LUSH!! Sr Bar Has Not Known Fury L1ke Laura s Thirst' Happy 21st. K1d!! 
Lushfully yours, ltsa 
CCD TEACHERS NEEDED! VOLUN­TEER NOW TO WORK WITH MARION HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS ON SUN­DAY EVENING. BEGINNING OCT. 3 CONTACT VSO · x239-5293 FOR DETAILS AND SIGN UP 
There once was a Domer named Glenn Whose 1st love was peanuts and then AI 19 IS dr1nk1ng 
And scopmg and winktng And now he s a stud among men Love and k1sses. 

The Grolschers PS We want to party w1th you. Moo' PPS Glad to see you came out of your shell (Get 1!? Shell? Peanuts?.. Never­mind) 
Hey. White. What s THE soc1ally cool lh1ng to do tomght? 
SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES presents GRAPES OF WRATH. free. on Wednesday mght. Eng Aud. 7 & 9.30 Dont miSS II! 
Load. Paul, and Atlas. Whal s th1s? You re ptanmng a Cham· pagne Breakfast. Lunch. and D1nner on Nor1h Avenue Beach today? ll1s Wednes­day. you know! 
Bubba (that s you Steve'! Heres to break1ng the record for the MILE' 
NOWAY! 

p.C QUAD. S1ster Ellen. Fluezy. M A. & Ou111y G<rl Thanks tor the hospltaltty' Ill mtss you 
lots' GERTIE 
once aga1n. the armadillo has surv1ved yel another ternble ordeal DEATH TO THE KOALA BEAR'!'!'!!!!!!' 
M0000000'"" Koalas are mellow ­1t s the eucalyptus 
KATHCO Hope everyth1ng s go1ng okay I 1magme 11 s hard to keep up w1th all the Nancy Drew mystenes p1l1ng up! Whatever you do. JUSt remember the three rules 
Weedftend 

G<rls. get your ROCKY posters autographed NOW 1n 435 Stanford' 
Cratg M Hale Ill. JR So when are those soc1a1 actiVIties gomg to start? (Were st111 wa1trng for. an tnv1ta­t1on to 101n you for some Canad1an Mol· 
sons) · 

Wednesday, September 22, 1982-page 9
The Observer 

Baseball Summary 
AL East race stays the same 

Montefusco then laid down a per­Red Sox 4, 1:3rewers,3 Padres,3, Dodgers 0 fect bunt as Salazar broke for the plate to make it 2-0. MILWAUKEE (AP) -Jim Rice SAN DIEGO (AP) -John Mon­singled home Glenn Hoffman with tefusco and Luis DeLeon combine_d 
Astros 5,1:3raves'3

two outs in the 1Oth inning, lifting on a six-hitter and Montefusco 
the Boston Red Sox to a 4-3 victory drove in a run with a suicide squeeze HOUSTON (AP) -Danny Heep over Milwaukee last night and snap· bunt as the San Diego Padres shut clubbed a two-run double and At· ping the Brewers' six-game winning out the Los Angeles Dodgers 3-0 last lanta shortstop Rafael Ramirez com­
streak. night. · mitted a two-run error last night as 
Despite the defeat, the Brewers Montefusco, I 0-10, allowed just the Houston Astros downed the retained a two-game lead in the three hits over seven innings of fading Braves 5· 3. Atlanta has won only four of its
American League East over second­work to earn his first victory since place Balti.nore, beaten 11-1 by August 4. He struck out three and last II games, including five straight Detroit. losses to the Astros. Hoffman, hitting .21 "7, started the The Braves took a 1-0 lead in the
More baseball in Briefs

Red Sox' lOth with a double offstart­third inning when Ramirez singled er Doc Medich. 1 1-14. Dwight Ber­and scored on Claudell Washing­nard relieved and retired the next did not walk a batter while DeLeon ton's triple. Houston tied it in its half two hitters before Dwight Evans worked the final two innings to earn of the inning when Terry Puhl walked. Rice then slapped a 2-0 his 14th save. reached base on a fielder's choice, pitch up the middle for his game­The Padres broke open a scoreless went to second on Dickie Thon's 
winning hit. pitching duel in the fifth inning with grounder and scored on Ray Mark Clear, 14-8, got the victory. a pair of runs off Burt Hooton, 3-6. Knight's single. The Brewers had tied the game at Joe Lefebvre drew a leadoffwalk and After singles by Phil Garner and 
~-~ when Paul l\Iolitor slammed a Broderick Perkins singled him to Jose Cruz, Alan Ashby drilled a The Notre Dame women's tennis team takes on DePaul today at third. Lefebvre came home on Luis the Courtney Tennis Center. Coach Sharon Petro's team topped
solo homer, his 18th. with two outs grounder hehind second base that in the eighth. Salazar's forceout grounder and Tim Ramirez hatted down for an error, Southern Illinoisyesterday in their questfor an NC4A tournament Flannery followed with a single to allowing Knight and Garner to score berth. (Photo by Ed Can-ol!) put runners on first and third. for a ~-I Houston lead. 
'l'igers 11, Orioles 1 
BALTIMORE ( AP) --:\-like Laga. who entered the game when Lou Whitaker was ejected during a first­
t 

inning argument. douhled and singled during Detroit's eight-run t third inning and Lance Parrish tied 
t

the American League record for home rum hy a catcher as the Tigers t crushed the Batimore Orioles 11-I last night. t 
Laga. who had thn:e of Detroit's 
t

16" hits, came in after Whitaker was tossed out for disputing his unsuc­'"' ~ ' t cessful steal of home. Laga ~ingled home the first run in the third and t
AIRCRAFT 

his two-run double completed the seven-hit barrage against three Bal­AIRCRAfT DIVISION Aircraft research, ELECTRONICS DIVISION Navigation and ELECTRO-MECHANICAL DIVISION Ad· DEFENSE SYSTEMS DIVISION Strategic ' <. design, developme,,t, and manufacturing. Guidance Systems, Digital Computers and vanced electronie/electro~optical sensor and tactical electronic countermeasurestimore pitchers. Information Processing Systems. systems. systems. t 
An RBI single by Parrish put the Tigers ahead 2-1 in the third and t finished Storm Davis, ~-4. Howard 
t 

Johnson greeted .\like Boddicker with a run-scoring double and after t an intentional walk, Boddicker 
t

walked Enos Cabell to force home the fourth run. Tom Brookens singled off John Flinn for two more runs and Laga's t 
' 

double completed the hig inning. 
t

Milt Wilcox, 12-H. pitched eight innings while beating Baltimore for 
t 

only the second time in I 2 career decisions. t t t 
PRECISION PRODUCTS DIVISION Gyro-VENTURA DIVISION Remotely piloted WILCOX ELECTRIC, INC. Instrument land· RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY CENTER scopes, accelerometers, inertial guidance vehicles, aerial training targets. aircraft ing systems and ground-based navigation Advanced technology research programs. 
t 

and control systems. subassemblies. aids.
...Tennis 
t 

continuedfrom page 12 
t 

straight sets, 6-3. 6--~ over Briddle­Schmidt ofSouthern Illinois. The on­
Thenextadvancement t 
ly unfortunate ones were NO's LaFratta and Colligan. who fell ~-6, 3-6 to SlU-E's Tlddy and Foederen at t No. 2 doubles. 
Coach Petro was "very happy" 
couldbeyours! t t 
with the way her team overcame its many injuries, and with its improve­' ment. "Lafratta is changing from a t baseline game to serve and volley, At Northrop, people and their ideas make Our representative would like to discuss your t' 
and she just played fantastic," ex­advanced technology work. interests and how they may lead to a career claimed Petro. She was also 
It works because we match people's interests with Northrop. I
impressed with the way Sue Panther 
"played through her back pain." She with our needs in project teams, where indivi-Contact your Placement Office to arrange your f said that the girls had some so-so 
dual responsibility and development potential interview, or write to: f 
play, but overall the wins felt "real 
are greatest. f
good." The Irish women meet DePaul at If your professional interest is listed below, we a 
3:30 today at the Courtney Tennis would like to discuss the different career paths College Relations , Courts, but Coach Petro is looking a Northrop Corporation, a 
little bit ahead to the tough match available at Northrop. 1800 Century Park East, Los Angeles, CA 90067 ' with Purdue on Saturday at 9:00a.m. • AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING f She'll be resting Panther today to • ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H f make sure Sue is ready to battle the e MANUFACTURING ENGINEERING USCitizenshipRequired t 
Boilermakers. Petro would like to 
• MECHANICAL ENGINEERING 

thank the people who showed up for 
yesterday's match, and she would • INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING· ~ PHYSICS N0 RTH RO p t like to see some people come and • BUSINESS • COMPUTER SCIENCE f j cheer for the Irish against Purdue on t •MATHEMATICS • MATERIALS SCJENCE People making advanced technology work. f 
Saturday. 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~· 
_j 
Wednesday,September22, 1982-page 10
The Observer 
Rebuttal: Forget about Saturday 

I may lose my job for saying this, but ... 

In Monday's Observer my boss, Chris Needles, got a little pen-happy. Cautiously, perhaps -but nonethe­less-pen-happy. 
In his column, Needles sang the praises of the Notre Dame football team. Like most of us, he was very impressed by the Shining Irish's performance Saturdav night. 
:'>low I don't make a habit out of criticizing other writers (especially those who pay me), but I think Needles should have been content with praising the Irish. Instead, he conjectured. The result of his con­jecture_ could be disastrous. 
Needles asks us to look at the Notre Dame schedule. In the next six games, he claims, the Irish face "opponents that are nmiceably weaker than Michigan, and suddenly the possibility of marching into Pitts­burgh November 6 with a 7-0 record doesn't seem that farfetched after all." 
Ouch. 

Now, as most of my friends already know, I'm a rah­rah. And a Domer. I would love nothing more than an undefeated, national championship season. 
But I also learn from mistakes. 

After last year's first game, a 27-9 drubbing of LSU, this campus went a little crazy. While leaving the field amid cheers of "Gerry, Gerry," Coach Faust gave the "No. 1" sign to the students. Later, he predicted an un­defeated, national championship season. 
Also on that day, No. 1 Michigan was upset by Wis­

consin and No. 2 Oklahoma had to struggle to defeat 
lowly Wyoming. 
Enter No. 3 Notre Dame. The nation's sportswriters 

hopped on the Irish bandwagon, ranking them atop the 
poll. The coaches agreed, ranking the Irish and the 
Sooners first. 
And that's where we got carried away. Frustrated in 

1980, the student body began to believe that the Irish 
were invincible. 
The players, ofcourse, weren't oblivious to the No. 1 

talk. Overconfidence set in. Before anyone could blink, 
the Irish were preparing for a national championship 
instead oftheir next opponent, Michigan. 
The rest is history -history that Gerry Faust and the 

rest of Notre Dame would rather forget. 
This year the situation is similar. The Irish dominated 

every phase of the game against the Wolverines. Both 
the offensive and defensive lines looked awesome. Blair 
Kiel looked like a Heismann Trophy candidate while 
completing 17 of his 21 pass attempts. All this against 
the lOth-ranked team in the country. 
So once again, Gerry Faust and his team are 1-0. Will things he different this vear' faust savs thev will he. 
"It won't happen again. I can a~sure \'UU. Faust says when asked about last years overconfidence problem. ''I'll never forget about what happened last vear. and the team won't either.·· 
This attitude sounds good in print. but how can Faust he sure that the same thing won't happen again? 
"We've forgotten about last Saturday's game," he says. "Now we begin to prepare for Purdue. We're bound to have letdowns during the season. 
"It's difficult for my staff and I to put ourselves in the kids' shoes. When they start reading newspaper clip­pings about how good they are, the tend to relax. We can't let the intensity falter." 
Faust also claims that the student body has a hig in­fluence on the team's attitude. "The players live with the other students," he says. "If the students get com­placent, the team can get complacent. And everyone knows what happens if a team gets complacent." 
There's no room for complacency in Notre Dame's schedule. The next two opponents are good examples. Purdue and Michigan State are both 0-2 and hungry for victories. A victory over the 1Oth-ranked Irish would be the highlight of either team's season. As Faust points out, "If you were Purdue or Michigan State, which op­ponent would you get up for'" 
Purdue and Michigan State both have experienced, talented quarterbacks. Notre Dame's fourth opponent, Miami (Fla.) lost jim Kelly, its Heisman Trophy can­didate, to an injury. But as the old addage says, one player does not make a team. 
Of course, we're forgetting that Notre Dame has played only one game this season. Even though they looked fantastic against Michigan, the Wolverines are not nearly as good as they were a year ago. In fact, it's been a long time since a Michigan team has looked so bad. 
Don't get me wrong-I'm confident that this year's team is a good one. But let's wait a few weeks before we start making predictions. 
And by the way, do you have a few bucks to spare for an unemployed sports writer? 


Though a recent poll shows that the average fan does not care which side wins out in the strike, this fan voiced the opinion of many at Monday's last game. ( AP Photo) 
Television networks scrambleto till slots 
NEW YORK ( AP) -The first and most immediate impact of the Na­tional Football League Players As­sociation strike was felt in the television industy, with all three net­works planning alternate program­ming to replace the usual diet ofNFL games. 
ABC returned the time slot 

··················•··············•·································
Social Concerns 

presents • • • Top20 

conti11uedfrom page 12
Grapes of Wrath -free 
week earlier, they beat North
Sept. 22, 7:00 and 9:30 
Carolina 7-6 and slipped from first to second. "I definitely think Pittsburgh should be'No. I, coming down here
Best Boy -$1 
and beating us like that," said Florida State Coach Bobby Bowden.
Sept.23-24, 7:00 and 9:30 
Meanwhile, defending national champion Clemson ( 0-1-1 ) dropped out of the Top Twenty following a
Engineering Auditorium 17-17 tie with Boston College.

.·................................................................... Notre Dame leaped from 20th to I Oth after defeating Michigan 23-17, and Illinois made the rankings for the first time in six years. The ohject of Pitt's concern is Il­
lrtTERESTED lrt TAKirtCi A 
linois quarterback Tony Eason. "So far this year, he'll he !he hest
CL(fSS lrt BALLROOM D(frtCirtCi? 
Bvginning Svptvmbvr ZZ a fivv wvvk coursv w_ill bv hvld on Saint 

The Top Twenty college football teams 1n The As­soctated Press poll. w1lh first-place votes 1n paren­
Mary·s campus in thv Rvgina ttall 
theses, th1s seasons records and total po1nts Po1nts based on 20-19-18·17 etc Notre Dame oponents are
basvmvnt loungv from 6:1 5 pm 
italicized 
1 Washmg1on (25) 2-0·0 1.045 2 Nebraska ( 12) 2-0·0 1,011 3 Pltr(10) 2-0-0 969 
to 7:45pm 
SIG" UP "OW In THE SfiltiT MfiRY"S 
4 Alabama (8) 2-0-0 945 5 Flor~da 2-0-0 832
STUDEtiT ACTIVITIES OFFICE 
6 SMU 2-0-0 802 7 Georgia 2-0-0 783 8 Penn State 3-0-0 732 


phonv : ZB4·4561 -=rJ=!.~~~~:-:--=;;~ 
9 Arkansas 2-0-0 595 10 Notre Dame 1-0-0 530
Cost is only $15 
11 North Carolina 1-1-0 489 12. UCLA 2-0-0 474
for fivv wvvks! 
13 Oh1oState 2·0-0 457 14 Anzona State 3-0-0 437
This offvr is 15 West V1rgm1a 2-0·0 268 
16. Miami(Fia.) 2-1·0 250 17 Texas 1-0-0 195 18 usc 1-1-0 178 
limitvd to tlotrv 
19 IllinoiS 3-0-0 159 20 Michigan 1-1-0 146 
Damvand • 

quarterback we've faced," said cor­nerback Tim Lewis, noting that Eason passed for 3,360 yards in 19H I and has thrown for more than 800 yards in three games this year. 
"We've 'seen film on him, and he's strong and has a quick release. As far as passing, this guy is on the same level as (Pitt's Dan) Marino and (Stanford'sjohn) Elway." 
The remaining eight first-place ballots went to Alabama, which trounced Mississippi 42-14 and held fourth place with 945 points. 
Florida, idle last weekend, remained No. 5 with H32 points, followed by Southern Methodist, Georgia, Penn State and Arkansas, all of which stayed in the same posi­tions as last week. 
S!Vlll, ~ 31-1 0 winner ovn Texas­EI Paso, received H02 points; idle Georgia totaled 7H3; Penn State had ~,;2 after a 49-14 rout of Rutgers. and Arkansas, a 29-I 7 winner over Navy, received 595. 
Notre Dame made the biggeM jump after opening its season im­pressively against !Vlichigan. The Wolverines kll from I Oth to 20th. 
The Second Ten consists of North Carolina, UCLA, Ohio State, Arizona State, West Virginia, Miami, Texas, Southern California, Illinois and Michigan. 
Last week, it was North Carolina, Ohio State, Arizona State, UCLA, 
Miami,  Clemson,  West  Virginia,  
Texas,  Southern  Cal  and  Notre  
Dame.  

scheduled for Thursday night's 
Atlanta-Kansas City game to its en­
tertainment division and it will be 
filled by a Peter Falk movie, "The 
Cheap Detective," 
NBC has scheduled a Canadian 
Football League double-header for 
Sunday, beginning with the British 
Columbia Lions at the Toronto Ar­
gonauts at 12:30 p.m., followed by 
the Calgary Stampeders at the Ed­
monton Eskimos at 3 p.m. 
The NBC contract with the CFL, 
reached last july, is essentially a 
week-to-week agreement, requiring 
the network to black out a number 
of markets close to Canada. Among 
those cities who will not see the CFL 
games are Cleveland, Buffalo. 
Detroit, Rochester, Seattle, Spokane 
and Toledo with network affiliates in 
those cities substituting local 
programming. 
NBC said it could stiii cover NFL 
games this weekend ifa quick settle­. ment were reached in the strike. But a firm decision on coverage would haw to be made by Friday when the network dispatches its mobile units and crews to prepare for the Sunday 
telecasts. 
NEW YORK (AP)-Facts and Hgures of players· 
strike against the National Football League: 
ON STRIKE: The 1,500 members of the NFL 
players Association agamst the 28 teams 
EFFECTIVE DATE: It began yesterday. The hrst 
game to be affected will be tomorrow night's Atlanta­
Kansas City game in Kansas City. 
EXPECTED DURATION: It could/as/one weekend 
or cancel out the entire season. 
PLAYERS' DEMANDS: A totalpackageof$1.6bil­
lion over four years with $1.06 billion that commg 
from 50 percent of the club' network-television 
package. plus free agency after three years 
MANAGEMENT'S OFFFER: A total package of 
$1.6 btl/ion over f1ve years. from whatever source the 
clubs choose 
EFFECTS ON TV COVERAGE: CBS plans to con­emus coverage of the season. NBC w11/ televiSe Canadian Football League games and ABC will reVen to prtme-t1me programmtng Turner Broadcastmg of Atlanta has stgned a contract for a series of games qetween all-star teams made up of stnkers 
There had been some speculation that the networks might present col­lege football games to replace the NFL telecasts but there were no im­mediate plans to do so. Donn Bernstein, a spokesman for ABC, said there had been some "internal dialogue" about the potential ofSun­day NCAA games. "But it hasn't surfaced since then. It is on the back burner," he said. 
....~~----~--~~-----...-.~--._--------~--~--~----------~----~------------~~-----· 
lhe~er======================================== 
T0 d~x=============w=e=d=n=e=s=d=ay::'=s=e=p=te=m=b=e=r=2=2='=1=9=8=2==p=a=ge=l=l

Doonesbury 



Simon 
Spike's World 
AFTER GIV!N6!TA tDT 0H. 'r[M~ rr THJL6HT, rvt PEC!fJfP LJKE 



)eb Cashin 
ARE Wf:. GDNNA HAY~ fO GIV£ AWAY ALl ~R. rl>NEY To 
GET AN 'A'; 


T.J. Wrobel 

The Daily Crossword 

9/22182

91982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
ACROSS 27 Step in 1 Rubaiyat ballet name 31 Granny and 
5 Longs (for) bowline 10 Container 32-gobragh 13 Rake 33 Cheese 14 Bete-34 River into 
(bugbear) the Rhone 15 Pine tree 35 Jargon feature 36 Winter 16 Oppose in hazard 
argument 37 Small 18 Awareof drinks 19 On horse­39 Contraction 
back 40 Placefor 20 Swaggers storage 22 Carter and 42 Signed up 
Lowell 44 Go-­23 Munich (ambitious mister one) 24 Cosmos' 45 Rene's best game girl
Tuesday's Solution 

g, 22182 

Campus 
•3:30 
p.m. -Tennis, ND Women vs. DePaul, Courtney Courts 

•3:30 
p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Introduc· tion to JCL, II 5 Computing Center 

•4 
p.m. -Music Colloquium, "The Organ in Florence in the 16th Century", Prof. Rudolph Kremer, University of North Carolina, Crowley 


Hall of Music 

•4, 
and 7 p.m. -Heritage of Ireland FUm Series, "The Anglo-Irish", Carroll Hall, Sponsored by Saint Mary's Dept. of History 

•4:20 
p.m. Physics Colloquium, "Catastrophe Theory For Scientists", Prof. Robert Gilmore, Drexel University, 118 Nieuwland 


Science Hall 

•4:30 
p.m. Microbiology Seminar, "Adherence and metabolism of oral gliding bac­teria", Dr. Roger A Celesk, University of Dayton, 278 Galvin life Sciences Auditorium 

•4:30 
p.m. -Workshop, "Finding Yourself in the World ofWork", Student Affairs Conference Room, LeMans Hall 

•7 
p.m. -Clinic Series, Natural Family Planning, Galvin life Sciences Auditorium, Sponsored by Notre Dame Campus Ministry and Natural Family Plannig Program ofSt. Joseph's County 

•7, 
and 9:30 p.m. -Social Concerns FUm 


Series, "Grapes of Wrath", Engineering Auditorium, free 
•7 
p.m. -Slide Lecture, '"El Greco in Toledo", Little Theatre, Sponsored by SMC Art Department 

•7:30 
p.m. -Sailing and Seamanship Course, 


Madeleva Hall Room 351, Sponsored by United States Coast Guard Auxiliary, free 
•8:15 
p.m. -Seminar, Censorship and the Church, 115 O'Shaughnessy, Sponsored by Thomas Moore Society Notre Dame 

•9 
p.m. -Co-recreational Volleyball, Angela Athletic Facility, free 


, T.V. Tonight 
1 


12 Recent: 
pref. 15 Curriculum 17 Ice crystal 
formations 21 Legal 
thing 24 Use a rink 25 Leek's 
cousin 26 Smuggled 
goods 27 Baby­28 Blue serge 
problem 29 American milliner 30 Oriental 
VIP 32 Otherwise 35 Part of 
some guns 38 Grave: var. 40 Jai alai 
basket 41 Diplomatic 
aide 43 52 44 Protects 46 Put up 47 Commune 
in Sicily 48 Author 
Vidal 50 Deer 51 Sandwich 52 Increases 53 Chatter 55 Blue Eagle 
letters 
6p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
8p.m. 8:30p.m. 
9p.m. 
IOp.m. 
!0:30p.m. 
llp.m. 11:30p.m. 

16 NewsCentc:r I 6 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Nc:wswatch 28 34 The: MacNc:il/L.c:hrc:r Report 
16 M•A•s•H• 
22 FamHy Feud 
28 Tic Tac Dough 
34 Straight Talk 
16 Real People: 22 Seven Brides for Seven Brothers 28 Tales of The: Gold Monkey(prc:mic:rc:) 
34 Great Performances 
22 CBS Wednesday Night Movie: 
16 Family Ties 
16 Quincy 
28 Dynasty 

34 On Stage: with Judith Somogi 
16 Nc:wsCc:ntc:r 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Nc:wswatch 28 
34 The: Dick Cavett Show 
16 Tonight Show 
22 Archie: Bunker's Place/CBS Late: Movie:: "Mr. Billion" 28 ABC News Nlghtlinc: 34 Captioned ABC News 28 Love: Boat 16 Late: Night with David L.c:ttc:rman 
.... 

................•.......................................•..­: WHATDOESTHE i 
i STUDENT UNION RECORD STORE ! 
:cHEAPER PRICES ... Save24-32percentofflistprices 1 HAVE FOR ME? ; 
• MOST CURRENT SINGLES -$6.50 (compare at ss 99listJ. :CUT-OUTS ... $2.9Rto S5.9R . : 
1 

: GREAT SELECTION ... Springsteen. Fogelberg. Stevie i'\icks. : 
; Cristopher Cros'. Moodv Blues, Pat Benatar. : • Joumev, and manv more' • e ALSO ... recorded and blank tapes available. • : CONVENIENCE~-. Th~ NDSU Record Store i-. lcxatrdon.the : 
• MainfloorofLaFortuneandisopen 10-4 e : PLUS -ordered albums take only one week to arrive 1 : 
46 Vienna's 
land: abbr. 47 Abating 49 Natalie 
Wood, once 53 Growl 54 Drew 
together 56 Mrs. Shake­speare 57 Madea 
faux pas 58 Head or hat 59-Ems, 
Germany 
60 Enjoys a novel 61 Selves 
DOWN 1 Killer whale 2 Sounds from the barn 3 Polly to 
Tom Sawyer 4 Withdraw 5 Soviet 
river 6 Sheltered 
inlets 7 Race 8 White· 
tailed birds 9 Aboil 
10 Denythe truth 11 Soldier and worker 


_&nior ~;,r This Wednesday Sq Night at Senior Bat 
BEER DRAFT SPECIAL 
9:30 'til 11:00 
j 

----~-' ----~ -~ --~--~ ---~--~--~~--~~·---~----~~---­
Wednesday, September 22, 1982 -page 12 
... 

Tuneupfor IU 
Irish soccer·team thrashes St. Joe ?s 
National Football League owners and players refuse to back down from their relativepositions, as the strike continues. For stories on the network 
By SAM SHERRILL 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame soccer team tuned up for its big Friday encounter with Indiana yesterday afternoon by thrashing little St. Joseph's 6-0. Six different Irish players scored as the team boosted its record to 4-2-I. 
"The team played really well in the first half," Coach Rich Hunter commented after the game. "They're doing just what we tell them. Things didn't go as well in the second half, but ifthe guys continue to do what we're telling them, I think we have a great chance on Friday." 
Freshman Joe Hohl opened the scoring at 8:38, collecting a loose ball in front of the net and kicking it past the fallen St. Joe goalkeeper. Senior defender Larry Smith tallied less than four minutes later with a corner kick which rebounded off a crowd ofplayers. 
After numerous near-misses, the Irish got number three at 33:IO. The St. Joe goalie couldn't handle a Steve Chang cross, and Rich Herdegen smacked it into the net as he was fal· ling to the ground. Ken Harkenrider rounded out the first-half scoring at 
42:33 with a beautiful shot into the upper left corner off a feed from Mark Bidinger. 
The rotten weather go t t worse in the se-cond half when a cold rain ap· peared, hampering any scoring chances for the Irish. Freshman Tom Daley finally connected at "6:36, blasting a Ted Schwartz pass beyond the reach ofthe gutsy St. Joe netmin· der. Another freshman, Chris Telk, finished things off at 8I:I8 with a 20· yard rocket into the left side of the net after receiving a pass from Schwartz. 
It's time for the big one now, however. The IUPU's and Valpo's are behind the Irish now. Is this bunch ready for a team. like Indiana? "We can't tell for sure until we see how practice goes the next two days. But things are looking better," Hunter stated. 
"We need work in three areas: our 

· corner kicks, the free kicks, and our working the ball from side to side. But we're getting a big contribution from our freshmen, so I'm fairly pleased so far." 
Hunter also has to be pleased with the play ofhis defense, especially his goalkeeping. Gerard McCarthy and No. 2-man Dan Coughlin split the shutout yesterday, and overall the Irish have posted shutouts in five of their seven games. 
television plans, and the strike's effects on the economy, see inside. (AP Photo) 
On the few occasions that St. Joe penetrated the· Irish half of the' field yesterday, the quickness of the Notre Dame defense and the slow· ness of the entire St. Joe team combined to make scoring a virtual impossibility. 
Notre Dame still needs to take better advantage of the number of shots they're getting. But despite this apparent lack of finishing, the 

Irish have outscored their opposi· ''tion 19-6.· · ·• ·•·· ·· · · ·! · · • "Indiana, naturally, is just one game on the schedule," Hunter con· eluded, "but I sincerely feel that we have a better chance of beating In­diana than we did ofbeating St. Louis last year." And for those with short memories, that was a 4-3 Irish vic· tory. 
Petros 'tense' Irish beat SIU-EdUJardsville 
BYDAVESTANG 
Sports Writer 
"Tense" was the word used by Coach Sharon Petro in describing yesterday's closer-than-it-looks 6·3 victory over tough Southern Illinois University at Edwardsville. Southern Illinois was one of the teams the Irish need to defeat in order to get a bid to the NCAA tournament. It was a very encouraging win because Ed· wardsville had finished No. I in last year's NIAW regional tournament, just ahead of No.2 Notre Dame. 
The turning point of the emotion· 
filled indoor match came when No. 
I singles Sue Panther turned away 
the pain in her back, and joan Finder 
of SlU-E 6-1, 3·6, 6-4. Linda Lee had little trouble with Patty Tiddy ofSIU· E, 6-4, 6-3 at No. 2. NO's Mary Col· ligan also breezed to an impressive 6-3, 6-3 win over Laura Foederen. No. 4 Lisa LaFratta displayed her new serve and volley style in herwin overJan Petras ofSlU-E 6-2, 6-3. The Irish's No. 5 and No. 6 singles had a little bit more difficulty with South· ern Illinois, as Cathy Schnell lost to Monica Briddle 2-6, 2-6, and Camille Cooper fell6-7, 2·6 to Leah Schmidt. 

The women's doubles teams also played well in winning 2 out of 3 matches. Notre Dame's No. 1 team of Panther and Lee dominated Find­er and Petras 6--i, 6-4. No. 3 Schnell· Roemer also were victorious in 
See TENNIS, page 9 
Huskies remain on top; Irish climbto No. 10 

By HERSCHEL NISSENSON "That's not a big deal to me right 
APSports Writer now," said Coach DonJames. "It's far more important where you're rated at the end of the season than where 
The Washington Huskies held you're rated right now. Our concern onto first place in The Associated is thinking in terms of guys getting Press college football poll, while the ready to play a Northwest rivalry unbeaten Pitt Panthers dropped yet ( Pacific·I 0 opponent Oregon). another notch, but both appeared to They all seem to mean.more than a be more concerned with Saturday's normal game." opponents than yesterday's Nebraska's 68-0 rout of New rankings. Mexico State lifted the Cornhuskers 
over Pitt from third place to second AP Poll--page10 with I2 first-place votes and 1 ,OI1 points Pitt, the preseason No. I 
Washington defeated Arizona 23· team, dropped from second to third I3 Saturday nightand received 25 of with 10 firsts and 989 points despite 55 first-place votes and 1,045 of a a 37-1 7 victory over Florida State. A possible I,l00 points from a nationwide panel of ·sports writers See TOP 20, page 10 and broadcasters. 

-~---­

--------. ---­








