--. -~ --. --­
, , , USA Today-page 3 

. ---~--------------------~-------------------------------------------------­

Welch chair 
Lerner to give inaugural lecture 
what aspects there are of both."
By MICHELE DIETZ 

"I think there is a considerable sign ofdecline and ofselfwounding," he Addressing the topic, "American added, "but there is also a very con­Civilization in Decline," Max Lerner, siderable sign of our capacity for visiting professor and first occupant self-corrective action and thinking.·· of the W. Harold and Martha Welch Lerner will teach at Notre Dame chair, will give his inaugural lecture as a result of the Wekh chair, which Friday, September I7, at 2 p.m. in is an endowed professorship in the Center for Continuing Educa-American Studies. His course for the tion auditorium. first semester is titled. "America as a 
Lerner, a syndicated columnist for Civilization: An Update", celebrating the New York Post. outlined his the 2Sth anniversary of the publica­speech: "The nature and importance tion of his best known book, of the lecture will deal with qucs-·'America as a Civilization." tions of the health and decline in "The course is an overview of the civilization. I will try to indicate changes and revolutions in civiliza-
Assistant News Editor 

tion," Lerner said. He added that the only problem with the course is a generation gap'in experience: "I've dealt with this material most of my life. For students, it is new material. We have to get a 'commmon ground' to get good discussion." 
''I'm very impressed so far, given the fact of the great disparity of ex­perience," Lerner added. ''I'm happy to teach undergraduates. It's ·much more challenging than graduate teaching." It has been eight years since Lerner has taught under­graduates. 
See LERNER,page 7 

GSLs face tighter restrictions ... 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE AND MARK BOENNIGHAUSEN 
StaffReporters 

Financial Aid Director Joe Russo would have to think !\\;'ice before calling this summer a vacation. 
Nearly 700 Guaranteed Student Loan applications were put on holu last semester while Russo's office waited and waited for Congress to hand down new regulations. 
The regulations arrived in mid­
May. Some applications had been 
waiting since January. That adds up 
to a lot of paperwork and a lot of 
time. 
In the interim, some states also 
drafted new GSL applications which 
meant the Financial Aid Office had 
co ·return some students' applica­
tions for corrections. 
"There is nothing we can do ex­
cept apologize," Russo said last 
Friday. "We didn't catch up (on loan 
applications) until three weeks ago. 
It was a long summer and people had 
every right to be upset." 
Russo is not too happy with Wash­
ington. During Reagan's tenure, 
tighter restrictions have bogged 
down the GSL applkation process. 
"It cakes us about chret to tour times 
as long," Russo said. 
l{usso ha.~ also seen Reagan cut funds in most federal aid programs and college student social security benefits are being phased out. Notre Dame alone has lost $SOO,OOO during the last two years. 
The changes in the GSL, however, seem to be the point of most confu­sion. At Reagan's request, Congress enacted the first battery of changes that became effective last October. Congress introdu.:.::d more changes this spring. 
Most students, however, filed 1981-82 loan applications before the first changes became effective, so this is the first year that students feel the crunch from Washington. 
About SO percent of Notre Dame students borrowed approximately li13 million GSL dollars last year. 
The biggest change is an income ceiling that determines if a family must prove financial need before receiving a loan. If a family income is below S.:\0,000, the government assumes the family is needy. But if a family is above that ceiling, they must pass one oftwo needs test. 
The "simple needs test" is for a student who receives no other federal financial assistance. The test basically analyzes income, family size, and number in college, and ignores assests and liabilities. The test derives an amount the familv should be able to contribute, and af­
ter including other scholarships, thts figure is subtracted from the college 
.costs. Students are eligible for loans amouting to this difference up to $2,500. 

The other test involves the Finan­cial Aid Form and is used by students receiving other federal money. The test derives a figure of family con­tribution, which is then used as in Max Lerner, visiting professor at Notre Dame, lectures at his the "simple needs test." Families ear-American Studies class, "America as a Civilization: An Update". 
(photo by Melinda Hopkins)
See RESTRICTIONS,page 5 

...Financialaidhurts adtnissions 

decade to a high of 66 percent in AND BOB VONDERHEIDE 
By MARK BOENNIGHAUSEN 
1980, dropped to 62 percent in 
1981 and was 59.5 this year. Goldrick cites inadequate finan­

The rising cost of a Notre Dame cial aid as a major reason. In a survey education and insufficient sources sent each year to every accepted stu­of financial aid, both campus and dent who decides not to come to non-campus base, arc contributing Notre Dame, 70 to 80 percent reply to a lower confirmation rate by ac­that the top reason they don't cepted Notre Dame applicants, choose Notre Dame is cost. The sur­according toJohn T. Goldrick, direc-veys also show that Notre Dame's 
. tor of undergraduate admissions. academic reputation compare~ The confirmation rate, which had favorably with schools such as Har­increased through the pcrceeding vard or Stanford. 
StaffReporters 

Failure to register 


Two Goshen studentsface possible indictments 
ByJACK AMARO 
.Veu•s Staff 
GOSHEN, IN. -Two Goshen College students may he among young men across the nation indicted for failure to register for the draft, according to offficials at the college. 
John Nyce, registrar at Goshen College, said that he gave biographical information on two students. Gregory Smucker and Byron Becker, to a LT. S. District Court grand jury at the request of the l 1 S. District Attorney's office in South Bend. 
Don Blosser, academic counselor to the students, said that Smucker was visited last June by FBI agents for questioning on his failure to register. Be­cker wa..; not questioned. 
An FBI agent confirmed this yesterday, and said that following the questioning both Becker's and Smucker's cases where handed over to the 
ll.S. District Attorney's office for --------------­

prosecution. THURSDAY&IiMIII 
After the questioning, Blosser and 
~~~-~~~~;~~~l~~~"rn:~tJ:~h F~~~~~a~~ f.l~g;fJ.iJJjj;F0 cus 
learn more about the proceedmgs. Blosser !>aid that Freese confirmed iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii that the two were on a list ofcases to be heard by the grand jury. 
Aspokeperson at the ll.S. District Court said that the grand jury will con­vene in early October. 
The U.S. District Attorney's office would not comment on the cases. 
Smucker and Becker cited religious reasons for their refusal to sign the draft registration form. Both students, members of the Mennonite Church, had hoped to comply with the church's pacitlst stance by applying for con­cicntious objector status when regjl;tering. 

• However. there is no provision in the registration card for concientious objection. Such objections can be made only after a person is drafted. Smucker sent a letter to the federal government protesting the situation and explaining his position. "As a Christian I believe that God is the creator ofall things. Neither I nor anyone else has the right to dispose ofhuman life," he said in the letter. 
"I am not refusing to serve. As a Christian my life is one ofcommitment to 
service. But! object to a service ofhatred that the military is offering me," he 
went on to say. 
Currently, Smucker is doing volunteer work in Washington, D.C. 
Becker echoed Smucker's pacifist views. "Both me and the. government 
want the same thing: peace," he said. "While the government wants to bring 
peace through the military, I do not think that peace can be achieved that 
way. !think it is better to talk than to go to war." 
In addition, Becker sees "registration as an integral part ofpreparation for 
a war." 
"I do not want t\) take pan in this. God alone has the right to determine 
death," he explained. 
H.::cker said he is willing to go to jail for his beliefs. "I am not willing to 
sacritke my Christianity... My goal is to witness to the people my Chris­
tianity, and to explain why this (draft registration) is in conflict with my 
Christianity," he said. 
According to Becker, his denomination is behind him in his decision and will support him throughout the proceedings. Blosser said that there will be a demonstration in support of the two stu­dents Sept. 30 at Goshen College. 
Though the low confirmation race is a "serious question" for Goldrick, the Univeristy's confirmation rate is excellent when compared with the 30 to 35 percent that is the average ofmost colleges. 
The problem wth financial aid is a major concern for the University. "We just don't have enough in­stitutionalized funds," said Goldrick. He also noteJ that the recent cut­backs in federal aid ha.~ not helped the situation. 
The enrollment of minority stu­dents is also complicated by problems with financial aid. Pat Leonardo, assistant director for un­dergratuate admissions said that financial aiJ is a more serious problem for minority students. Though this year's freshman class ha.~ the most minority students of any other previou~ class, I 77, a good portion of accepted minority stu­dents did not come. Leonardo said the major reason why most of these accepted students did not come was because of poor financial aid packages. 
Leonardo went on to add that it is very difficult to recruit highly qualified minority students when there is not a clear picture about financial aid packages. In a survey done during a two year period, minority students who were ac­cepted at Notre Dame and went elsewhere were asked to report the school they went to. · 
The results showed that S6 per­cent of the surveyed students went to IS schools. These schools in­cluded most of the Ivy League schools, Stanford, and the military academies. Most ofthe schools these students attended offer financial aid packages that meet full demonstrated need, Leonardo said. 
See AID,page 5 




NewsBrieb 
By The Obserwr and The Associated Press 
A woman student reported being grabbed around the shoulders from behind about 1:30 a.m. last Saturday while walking through the D-1 parking lot on the west side of the football stadium. The woman told campus security officers she was walking north through the lot retuning to her dorm when the inci­dent occurred. The woman said she struck the assailant with her elbow, breaking the hold, and ran back to her dorm_ The assailant was described as a white male, about six feet tall. -The Observer 
Charges ofcriminal mischiefand public in­toxication were filed against two Stanford Hall sophomores Tuesday after the two reportedly attempted to break into the Speedway Service Station, 2150 South Bend Ave. early Tuesday morning. Police said a third man apparently escaped. The two students were held in St. Joseph County Jail until late Tuesday afternoon, when they were released on S1 50 cash bonds. They face hearings on the two charges in the Traffic and Misdemeanor division of St. Joseph County Superior Court. The hearings are scheduled for later this month. -The Observer 
The stunned people of Monaco suddenly bereft of their storybook princess, filed in mournful lines past the former Grace Kelly' coffin Wednesday, in the hilltop palace where the fabled Hollywood beauty first joined them 26 years ago. "She seemed almost as if she were alive," 22-year-old shop employee Pascale Feles said tearfully after viewing the body in the chapel ofthe sand-hued castle. "She was a marvelous woman." "I am thun­derstruck. I don't know what I'm doing today," said a middle-aged secretary, weeping silently at her desk downtown. "We loved her so." Princess Grace, the American-born actress who won an Oscar in a brief but triumphant film career, died late Tuesday of a cerebral hemorrhage at age 52, about 36 hours after plunging down a ravine in her automobile. Her funeral will take place Saturday at I 1 a.m. ( 5 
a.m. EDT) at the Roman Catholic Cathedral of Monaco, the palace announced. Royalty, film stars and other luminaries from through­out the world are expected to attend. 
Senate Republican leaders appeared increasing­ly impatient Wednesday to resolve the abortion issue after nine days ofdebate and proceed to other priority legislation before Congress adjourns for the year. Shortly before the Senate voted for the third time on whether to break a liberal filibuster against an anti-abortion bill sponsored by Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., Assistant Majority Leader Ted Stevens, R Alaska, said Helms lacks the support he needs to get his bill through the Senate. "Helms has reached the zenith ofvotes he will get on the filibuster," Stevens said. Helms' measure would prohibit all federal financing for abortions, including money for federally aided medical schools that teach students how to perform abortions. In addition, the measure would permit a direct appeal to the Supreme Court for any new anti-abortion legislation approved by a state legislature. -AP 
Presidential press secretary James Brady was greeted in Chicago by 300 cheering well-wishers Wednesday as he arrived for his first visit in his home state since he was shot in the head. Brady, 41, giving the thumbs-up sign from his wheelchair, was accompanied on his train trip from Washington, D.C. by his wife, Sarah, and 3-year-old son, Scott. Brady was shot during the March 1981 assassination attempt on President Reagan. He is to receive the United Republican Fund's Lincoln Award at a "Welcome Home, Jim Brady" dinner Thursday night. Part ofthe proceeds from the S 12 5-a­plate dinner Thursday will be donated to the james S. Brady Fund. established by Congress to make contributions to people injured in the line ofduty while protecting the president, officials said.-AP 
Two former Democratic governorsMichael Dukakis of Massaschusetts and Rudy Perpich of Minnesota -made giant strides toward political comebacks with primary victories, while the incumbent members of Congress up for renomination in 12 states all turned back challengers on the biggest primary day of the year. The only incumbent to lose a major race in Tuesday's voting was Gov. Edward J. King, who fell to Dukakis in a reversal of the 1978 Democratic primary. Even the congressional incumbents who were thought to be in trouble won. Nevada Sen. Howard Can­non overcame adetermined bid by fellow Democratjames Santini to win renomination for a fifth term. Republican Sen. Robert Stafford of Vermont defeated two conservative challengers and Rep. Clement Zablocki, D-Wis., won the toughest primary ofhis career.-AP 
The United Auto Workers union and Chrysler Corp. continued bargaining Thursday in Highland Park, Michigan, past the midnight deadline, union officials said. "We will continue ro bargain through the night," spokesman David Mitchell said, refusing to say whether a strike was in effect. But a local union official, Ed­ward Zalupski, financial secretary ofLocal869 in Warren, Mich., said there was no agreement and that the union was on strike. -AP 
Becoming partly sunnyrhursday. Cool with highs in upper 60s to around 70. Fair Thursday night and cool. Low in the upper 40s to low 50s. On Friday, becoming mostly cloudy with a chance ofshowers. High in the low 70s. 

Thursday, September 16, 1982 -page 2 
Some food for thought 
For several years now, hundreds ofconcerned Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have sacrificed their Wednesday lunches at the dining halls in accordance with the fast designed by the World Hunger Coalition. For each meal foregone by the students, the schools have contributed 75 cents to the Coalition. 
Last year over n 5,000 was raised for this worthy ef­fort and the money was distributed to hunger reliefor­ganizations in South Bend and throughout the world. 
Despite the financial success ofthe fast, there remain two significant hurdles which must be overcome if the WHC is going to succeed in its mission of helping more needy people. First, the two schools should and must offer a greater contribution for each foregone meal and (yes, here comes the old apathy attack again) more stu­dents must get involved with the program. 
The effort made by the WHC and the fasters is highly commendable. What is not so commendable and per­haps even a little crooked is the paltry amount ofmoney reimbursed to the Coalition for each sacrificed meal. For several years now that amount has remained at 75 cents despite the fact that board costs have increased substantially. Even when accounting for the money gobbled up by inflation, one can be sure that schools certainly are not losing any money on the deal. Efforts by the WHC to raise this \ stipend in the past have fal­len upon deaf ears and as of this writing, neither Notre Dame or Saint Mary's plans to increase the contribution. 
Administration officials have assured me that even though the students are giving up a meal, the costs for the food and overhead still remain. This may be true. But it is also true that all those meals, 20,199 meals in last year's fast, were not consumed immediately. They all went back to the giant casserole pan in preparation for the next three weeks' dinners. So for the straight food cost, which is about $1.13, the dining halls didn't lose a cent. 
Exactly how much money the schools have profited from this escapade is somewhat uncertain. What is cer­tain, despite official protests to the contrary, is that they made at least a few thousand dollars from last year's fast. 
Assume that a Notre Dame student on the full meal plan pays about 52.50 for lunch. (The exact figure is unknown, even by school officials. But with a 1 0-meal plan, lunch costs about 52.80. The S2.50 figure is an estimate based on this cost). With food costs and over· head, the University probably spends $1.50 at the most for each prepared lunch. This leaves a net income of S1, ofwhich 75 cents goes to the poor and 25 to the rich. 
Aquarter ofa dollar doesn't buy much these days, but when it's multiplied by the 20,199 meals foregone during last year's fast at both schools, you come up with a nice tidy sum ofover $5,000; money which, instead of being used to purchase more cowfeed for the masses, could be given to hundreds of people who really need 

Design EditorDeirdre "Alice" 
Design Assistant... liz "Queen of Hearts" 
Layout Staff....... .....______ ...._.. lJave and Bob "Tweedledum and Tweedledee" Mitch "Caterpillar" Alan "Mad Hatter" 
Reggk "Jaberwocky" Typesetters... _.._,Jim "Knave ofClubs" Toni "Cheshire Car" News Editor.. Michele "Mouse in the Tea 
Pot" Copy Editor.................... ...._..Jeff"l'artiste'" B&T Layout......... Alex "Knave ofSpades·· 
Editorials Layout.. l'aul & Tim "Knave & King of Hearts" Sports CopyEditor.Cbris "Prefers the X­
Rated Version" Typist ................... Marv Beth "_i of Hearts" Ad Design... Marilvn ,;Bread ·n· Butterfly" SMC Day Editor...·.... Tari "Talking Clock" Photographer.... ...... Melinda "Drink Me" Guest Appearances__ .. __ The White Rabbrr 
with blue pens and assoned cards 
But tbe {!W!I!11 will have my bead just 
tbesame. 
The Observer !USPS 598 9201 IS publiShed Monday through Frtday and on home football Saturdays except durtng exam and vacat1on pertods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased tor $25 per year ($ 15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer 1S a member of The Associated Press All reproduCtion rtghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lndtana 46556 

r..,....,...........~.................,..~~· ........~·~~...,............,......................,.......,.. ...........,......, 
\ The New N.D. ON CAMPUS Florist ~ I THE IRISH II GARDENS ! 
~ \ 
\ Announces its i ~ GRAND OPENING ~ 
i Be there for the ribbon cutting ~ \ ~ 
\ in the basement of LaFortune ~ \ ~ 
\ ~ 
\ ~ 
\ Large assortments of \ ~ FLOWERS ~ \ PLANTS \ ~ BASKETS ) \ NOVELTIES!!!!! ) ~ Hours: Monday-Saturday 12:30pm-~ ) 5:30pm ~ 
) Just Dial M-U-M-5(6867) to place an order ~ 1 or ask a Question ~ .L.....,................. ..,...~ ......................,.....................,.......,..................................,..~ ................~..l 

it. 
The colleges have to make a profit if they are to con­tinue operating. This is expected even by the students who must expend thousands ofdollars each year for the privilege of a college education. But there are certain times when the need and desire for profit should take a back seat to the responsibility we all must share for the underprivileged. Towards this end, it would be highly commendable and very appropriate for both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's to increase the amount con· tributed for each lunch to at least 85 cents and hopeful­ly to one dollar. This is expected not only out offairness to the WHC but also out oftheir responsibility as Chris­
tian institutions. 
The administrations of the two schools are not the least of the villains in this story. According to Coali­tion director Ed Colbert, on­ly 900 students took part in the fast each semester, from both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. When one considers that at least 8,000 students are utilizing the dining halls daily at the two schools, you've got to wonder why we even bother attending Christian institutions. By sacrificing just one meal each week, we could go far to bringing just a small ray of light to a world which is so often darkened by human suffering and despair. 
All thatthe WHC is asking 
is for us to give up one lunch each week beginning September 29. Considering the never-ending complaints regarding dining hall food, it shouldn't be that much ofa sacrifice at all. Sign-ups will be held in the dining halls all this week. Why not do your stomach and digestive tract a big favor and sign up to take part in the fast? By doing so, you will be helping some very needy people. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not necessarily represent the views ofThe Observer or its editorial board. 
Observer note_______, 
The Observer is always looking tor new people to work in layout, news, sports, etc. No experience necessary. Call 239-5303 for more info. Come join the staff!!! 

-~----------~ ----~-­
The Observer Thursday, September 16, 1982-page 3 
No policy changes madeby AL dean 
years. He is looking forward to a By CHUCK KRILL 
change of pace. This year will be News Staff exciting. It is the tlrst time in nine years that I will be teaching full time, 
The basic curriculum policies es­he says.
tablished by Professor Donald This term he is teaching in the Sniegowski, former Assistant Dean English Department, but next of Arts and Letters, will remain un­semester he will be taking a leave of scathed under his successor, Profes­absence to work with the Arts and 
sor Alven Neiman. 
Letters London program in April.Neiman assumes this position 
Sneigowski spent nearly halfofhis after three years as Assistant Direc­

time as Assistant Dean directing the tor of the Core Course and Adjunct 
Core Course. I'm very happy with Professor to the Philosophy Depart­

the way that turned out, but it was 

ment. 
not just my accomplishment, he Neiman sees no need for im­said. He was assisted for the last 

mmediate changes in the Core three years by Neiman, his succes­Course, especially since the Social sor, in whom he is very contldent. 
Sciences Laboratory assessed the He knows the Core Course inside 
student opinion of the course, and out, its strengths and returning an evaluation that he feels weaknesses and its teachers,'·­was pretty positive. Because he has Sneigowski said. "He is a highly intel­had previous experience in direct­lectual person, and thus he will be ing the Core Course, Neiman points capable of guiding the syllabus­out, It's not like I'm a new ad­making. 
Successfulfreshmen reveal their bootyfrom the 1982 annualpanty raid. (Photo byMelinda Hopkins)
ministration. I'm happy enough with the course now. He particularly likes the interdis­
ciplinary nature ofthe course. In the Annual tradition 
Core Course more than one view of a subject is studied in order to reach a greater understanding of it. It's an 



Darners flock to SMCfor panty raid
interdisciplinary course, says Neiman, because we want students By MARY ANN MCMORROW the girls dorms during the ritual held The wall-crawlers were working igan game with a bang." 

to see that no important questions AND DAVID F. TRACY each year on the Wednesday before at sufficient risk to themselves, as There were some who disagreed.

can be dealt with without crossing New.sStaff the first home football game. 550 fines were levied against any Others expressed a desire to par·disciplines. 

Saint Mary's was prepared, as guys caught inside the girls rooms. ticipate in a role-reversal situationBesides counseling students and Running, walking, and marching security guards manned each of the The event was not without in­where the Saint Mary's girls wouldwriting articles on the side, Neiman 

to various hall chants, a large group dorms, resident assistants were as­juries. Several spirited Irishmen do the raiding.
sees himself constantly examining of Domers flocked to Saint Mary's signed to the doorways, and lower received cuts and bruises, and one Saint Mary's students had mixedthe nature of the Arts and Letters McCandless resident required medi­

campus last night for the annual level windows were closed and emotions. Many appeared to enjoycurriculum. He wants to concern cal attention after a fall. 
panty raid. locked. the event and seemed to take pridehimselfwith the question, What sort Panties, bras, stockings, pillow Notre Dame men were not to be The guys who -participated in composing clever messages inof curriculum would be useful in cases, scraps of paper, rolls of toilet thwarted as they built pyramids and seemed to enjoyed the event. "It their undergarments.
doing whatever liberal education is paper, beer cans, and other items towers carrying students to the builds spirit among the hall," said One apparently relieved Reginasupposed to do? 

with messages and phone numbers second floor windows, where some one freshman Dillonite. "It breaks resident assistant said "This yearThe ideals ofliberal education are written "n them rained down from students gained access. the monotony ofstudies and certain­they did not seem to cause as much very important to Neiman. He said ly kicks-off the partyingfor the Mich-trouble as in the past."
"If there is anything I could do here it is to help students to be more ap­preciative of these four years of liberal education and less worried 

Japans nude bathing
about what these years are going to do for them. 

Neiman replaces Professor Sneigowski, who left after four years as Director of the Core Course. Affluence, inflation the spread of In Tokyo alone, public bath· Sneigowski originally accepted the Western lifestyles may spell the end houses are going out of business at a position on the condition that he ofa centuries-old]apanese tradition rate of one every 15 days. Of 2,314 ~ would serve a term of exactly four · nude communal bathing. public baths still operating -down 
' 

The sights and sounds of public from 2,634 in 1968 · almost all bathing are still very present in depend on outside sources of Japanese cities. income to stay in business. 
Gannettstarts ,,_-'• 
~ 
. 

newpaper Arttn9s 1Jns4J;ili'..J "' 
l~ 

rI8 Rnnouncesthe 1 ' ~ ­

~~

U5AToday 

I ~~' Thutsdny Night
SPRINGFIELD, Va. (AP) -USA Today Gannett's multimillion dollar 
...~J, 


' . Celebtntion
attempt to create a national daily 
newspaper for a general audience, 
rolled off rented press today against 

*Football on out Wide Screen TV 
the tide of dead and ailing 
newspapers. 

* 2 for 1 mixed drinks and 75¢
Shortly after the presses started, upwards of 150,000 copies of USA 

domestic beet (cans) 
,
today were heading for vendors and 
street boxes in Washington, D.C., 

*Home made Chili and Coneydogs
Baltimore and portions ofMaryland, 
Virginia, Delaware, Pennsylvania 
and West Virginia. 




--r,iaayNight-QtAitro-;;--­
Next week, the color-drenched paper should be available in Atlanta, with Minneapolis and Pittsburgh set 

,Half way to St. Pat's Day Party' 
to follow in successive week~•. By 
next April, the Gannett Co. plans to 

*Home made ltish Stew 
add Chicago, Denver, Detroit, Hous­
ton, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, 
Philadelphia, San Francisco and 

*Green Beet and Pitcher Specials 
Seattle. 
The tlve-year goal, company offi· 

* Authentic Live 
cials say, is 2. 3'; million or more 
readers, drawn heavily from the 

Irish Entertainment_ (9 pm -?) 
ranks of travelers and transplanted 
Americans who wanr to keep up 

*Bushmells ltish 11/shot 



' SKYSTREAM 
·­
~ STUDENT FIRST JUMP INSTRUCTION 
-TRAINING FEES: $90 per student training includes -ground school, first static line jump, equipment rental, ~ parachute packing, jump master, airlift. 
~ STlnC LIME JUMPS: $18.00/ jump-need a minimum ~ of 5 static line jumps. -STUDOil FREE FALL: $15.00/jump-up to 5,500 ft. 
0. Includes jump master, equipment rental & parachute ~ packing. 
-Group rates are available 
~ STUDENT TRAINING CLASSES: 
-Start 9:00A.M. Sat. & Sun~ -Come down and watch, our staff will answer any 
~ questions you ;;~~a~iTIONS: 
-STATIC LIIIE JUMP -Student is connected to oirplone by the static -line which automatically deploys the chute. A minimum of 5 ore 
0. required. 
~ Cl£AJI liD PULL: Student jumps and deploys chute immediately by ~ pulling his ripcord. --FREE FALl.: Delaying the pull until 2,500 ft., thus falling for o ~ime 
maintaining stable Right. 

RELATIVE WOitl (IW): A number of jumpers together using freefoll ~~~ ~ 1ime to complete formations at altitude. . 
with news from their former homes. 
The premiere edition of USA 
0. THE FAA (FEDUAL AYIATIO• ASSOC.) requires every jumper to wear 0.
Today covered that base with two 
~ two chv!M-A main and a reserve. Thtt reserve must be pocked by a ~ 
pages ofitems from the 50 states and 
5pm-? Come on down I
' FAA cerllfied ngge; ~ 
the District ofColumbia, tidbits ran­ging from a pulp-mill expansion in 
and Celebrate I 
~ For further information call: 
Alabama to a prison cost-overrun in Wyoming. 
Go ND-Bent ffii~i.~;~.J ~ Goshen Municipal Airport 533-8245 ! 
• ............................................................................-.""'le....._UW 
The Observer Thursday, September 16, 1982 -page 4 
Audience with Arafat 

Pope urges rejection ofviolence 

VATICAN city (AP)-Pope John Paul II gave Vasser Arafat a private audience Wednesday, telling him Palestinians deserve a homeland but void of violence of every form, "above all terrorism and retaliation," the Vatican announced. 
The pope later addressed 20,000 people in St. Peter's Square and called on Israel and Arafat's Palestine Liberation Organization to "accept the existence and reality of the other." 
The 20-minute meeting here, the first between Arafat and a pope, drew another sharp protest from Is­rael. 
The PLO chairman made no public comment on the Vatican ses­sion, but a Palestinian priest said Arafat considered it a turning point in the PLO's quest for international support. 
Arafat, wearing a green uniform and his familiar black-and-white headdress, was whisked in and out of the Vatican through a little-used side entrance, riding in a bullet-proof limousine followed by police cars bristling with submachine guns. 
He spent about a half-hour in the Roman Catholic city-state, smiling and flashing the victory signal by reporters on his way out. 
A formal photograph released by the Vatican showed a smiling Arafat, without the customary pistol on his hip, standing with the white-robed pontiff. 
In a three-paragraph com­munique, the Vatican said John Paul spoke in English with Arafat, expressing "good will for the Pales­tinians" and telling him that a Middle East peace solution "must exclude recourse to arms and violence in every form, and above all terrorism and retaliation." 
John Paul also called for "a recognition of the rights of all peoples and in particular those of 
Palestinian  people  for  their  own  
homeland  
In  the  later speech,  the pontiff  

said, "The pope and the Catholic Church look with sympathy in con­sideration of both peoples (Israelis and Palestinians)," and added he hopes that "each one accepts the ex­istence and reality of the other and that they may find a path to dialogue." 
Before the meeting, the Rev. Ibrahim Ayad, a 68-year-old Pales­tinian priest who heads the Catholic Ecclesiastical Court ofLebanon, said Arafat would welcome peace, but only a just peace. 

Attrition rates 
Freshman enrollment steady 
Students trying out for the Abiogenesis dance group perform their various routines. (Photo by Melinda Hopkins) 
By KATHLEEN DOYLE 
SentorStaffReporter 
The total freshman enrollment at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's decreased by less than one percent last year. 
Emil Hofman, Dean of Freshman Year, said the rate of attrition for Notre Dame freshmen was not ex· ceptional. 
"Rate ofattrition includes dismiss­al for academic failure, voluntary withdrawal, and dismissal for dis­ciplinary reasons," Hofman said. "Our attritions were six academic dismissals and six voluntary withdrawals. Three of those stu­dents who left voluntarily did return. There were no dismissals for other reasons." 
"This attrition rate ofless than one percent in the freshman year, which is typical of the past seven or eight years, would have little meaning if there was a greater attrition after the freshman year. But the attrition over a four year period is slightly less than eight percent," Hofman said. "Most of the students who start at Notre Dame finish here." 
Saint Mary's also experienced a low rate ofattrition during the fresh­man year within the Class of 1985. According to Sister Jeanette Lester ofthe Institutional Research Depart· ment, only five of the 487 freshmen did not complete two semesters. Only 6.9 percent ofthe class did not return for the sophomore year. 
"According to a report by the 

American Council on Education, the 
national average ofattrition after the freshman year is 30 percent," Lester said. "Another 20 percent leave col­lege after the second year with only 40 percent graduating in four years from the same school they enrolled in as freshmen. About 50 percent graduate in five years." 
The rate ofattrition at Saint Mary's after the sophomore year is 1 7. 5 per­cent which is approximately half of the national average. Of the Saint Mary's students who have entered the college since 1974, 73 percent have graduated in four years and 77 percent have graduated in five years. 
"The students who voluntarily withdraw do so for various reasons," saidJoan Imler, an admissions coun­selor at the college. "A lot of times they are not very specific, but men­tion personal and financial reasons." 



PRICES GOOD
YOU'RE WASTING THRUYOUR MONEY 

September 18

BUYING 

~~iii

ANYWHERE 

VISA--­


ELSE! 


-~-~ 
TAILCiATER'S SPECIALS 


r·H·····R····m·······m·······;·s······v4
......99.1 
i fl •cASE ~ 
:fROM THE LAND OF t ,.. SKY -BLUE wAIERS it
************************ **************************.. 
Beer Specials ~ Quart Specials ~ Kegs ~ -~ 
Miller Lite case $6.99 1( Old Milwaukee $7.49 iC Budweiser $29.99 CARLO ROSSI Michelob case $8.99 1e Budweiser $8.99 1e Pabst $28.99 Coors 6-pak $3.49 iC Miller $8.99 it Michelob $33.99 Old Style case $6.99 i' Miller Lite $8.99 iC Generic $21.99 


~$_4·~9

Mickeys Malt case btl $7.49 ~ 1C Miller or Lite $29.99 
BIG 

4 LITER 

r~--------,-------------------,-------------------------, ------------------------------· 
I 750ML 1.75ML 
J· ROGET cr1 99 
American Ch~mpagne 'P •
I 
Jack Daniels $7.99 Kamchatka VODKA $7.99 
(Spumonte, White, Pink Burgundy 
Bacardi Rum $5.99 Calvert GIN $8.99 I Tanqueray Gin $8.99 Canadian Mist $10.99 and Aim ante) I 7 Crown $5.99 Ushers SCOTCH $1.0.99 


·----------------------------------· 
I Wild Turkev 86 $7.99 FLAVORED BRANDY L-----------~-------------------------------~ Apricot, Blackberry, or Cherry $5 •99 
___________________________________, 



The Observer Thursday, September 16, 1982 page 5 
~er(;ennayeldearlG 
Israelislaunch new-attack 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -Israeli tanks and troops surged into west Beirut Wednesday and their gun­boats opened up with missiles in a new offensive against Lebanese left­ists and Palestinian guerrillas follow­ing the assassination of President-elect Bashir Gemayel. 
The gunboats opened fire on the oceanside neighborhood of Rouche and the Carlton Hotel area after a ground penetration of about 2.5 miles into west Beirut that the Tel Aviv command said was aimed at preventing a dangerous new linkup between the leftists and some 2,000 PLO guerrillas reported still in the city. 
It was the tlrst time the Israelis had gone into west Beirut in force sin..:e they invaded Lebanon 1'* weeks ago to route the PLO. Several thousand guerrillas are still in the country, many ofthem in the eastern Bekaa Valley camped with some 25,000 Syrian troops whom the Is­raelis also· want out. 
The Moslem half of Beirut was shaken by the naval bombardment as Gemayel's funeral was conducted in a solemn Maronite Christian rite at the packed church in his hometown of Bikfaya, 12 miles east of Lebanon's capital. 
The death ofGemayel, who was to become president next week, threatened to plunge Lebanon into a new round of warfare. The presence of Israeli troops and Syrian forces in eastern Lebanon also carried the threat of a new confrontation be­tween those two countries. 
Weeping bodyguards in the 
brown uniforms of Gemayel's 

Ombudsman plans meeting for tonight 
Ombudsman plans an organiza­tional meeting to be held tonight at -::r in the Little Theater of LaFortune Student Center. All interested stu­dents are invited to attend. 
Ombudsman serves as an informa­
tion and complaint bureau for the 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­
munity. Information available from 
the service ranges from car rental 
agencies to campus trivia to cultural 
and social events schedules. 
Tom Koegel, director of Om­
budsman, has stated that normal 
operations will begin on Monday, 
September 20. Koegel also an­
nounced a renewed dedication to 
pursuing student complaints. He 
will be announcing the implementa­
tion of an entirely new system of 
recording, resolving, and reporting 
complaints at tonight's meeting. 
Anyone with questions concern­
ing the ND/SMC environment 
should contact the organization at 
239-6283 or 239-0BUD. 
Phalange Party threw themselves across his flag-draped coffin as the Mass was read in Arabic at Bikfaya's St. Abda's church. 
The wooden casket was then placed on an army gun carriage and taken in a slow-moving procession to the cemetery. A 21-gun salute echoed across the mountain peaks of central Lebanon as the 34-year­old slain leader ws lowered into his grave to the drumbeats of an army band. 
U.S. presidential envoy Morris Draper s circled overhead during the day in a bombing of his east Beirut party headquarters. 
Meanwhile, Israeli troops and tanks captured the Beirut airport and swept into the former Oplo strongholds of Fakhani, Bir Hassan, RamJet al-Baida, and according to Lebanese sources, the vicinity of the 
continuedfrom page 1 
ning more than $70,000 must com­plete this test regardless. _ 
Because the exact cost of college is so important in getting students loans, the Financial Aid Office now uses a chart of exact transporation costs to and from every major city. 
Another change is a five percent finance charge that is subtracted out of the amount of the loan before a student receives a check. Reagan has talked of raising this to 10 percent. 
"Congress has taken a sledge ham­mer to kill the flv," Russo said. He noted that recent publicity about students defaulting on loans has fueled this movement. "You never hear that 9S rercent ofthe loans are paid back,'. he sairl. 
Russo also saiJ the Reagan ad­ministration has some other proposals such as requmng everyone to complete a needs test, and floating the interest after two years to the prime rate. 
But this is not the first time the GSL has had regulations. Only during the Carter years were GSLs open to anyone who applied. The Middle Income Bill of 1978 made the loans available as a political com­promise to tax credit legislation. 
Reagan,  however,  has  different  
ideas.  
And the  GSL  is  not  the  only  

program in question. The Pell Grant, Supplementary Opportunity Educa­tion Grants, Work/Study, and Na­tional Direct Student Loans also face the ax. Reagan has suggested eliminating the NDSL funding for 1983-84. And Notre Dame is already down about SlOO,OOO in Pell money. 
"There are hundreds of eligible students who are not getting money (from the government)," Russo said. 
To make matters worse, the Department ofEducation has not an­nounced how much money Notre Dame will receive for the campus­based federal programs. Congress' recent ve~o override of the Sup­

Soviet Embassv on the Corniche Mazraa commercial thoroughfare. 
Lebanon's state radio reported heavy firing flared at nightfall at the Cornche's Tarik el)adida stronghold of the Mourabitoun, the largest left­ist Moslem militia in west Beirut. 
The radio said one Israeli armored force also punched across the port's western gate and shelled the neighboring sector of hotels that were devastated in the 1975-76 Moslem-Christian civil war. 
Another Israeli tank force moved 
behind mine detecting teams into 
the downtown commercial center 
on the Green Line that divides 
Beirut into Moslem and Christian 
halves. 
All major crossroads between east 
and west Beirut were closed to traf­
fic as the Israeli mid-city thrust 
picked up momentum. 

Restrictions 
plemental Funding Bill, however, will soon make these figures available, Russo said. 
"I would certainly rather be facing this challenge here at Notre Dame," Russo said. "I am optimistic about what I'm hearing upstairs. This is no doomsday forecast by any means." 
.. .Aid 
continued/rom page 1 
It is tough to compete with schools that offer full need packages, added Leonardo. The University will always be able to attract students, but it is important to get the best and the right mixture. Leonardo hopes that financial aid will become a "very important priority of the Uni­versity in the future." 
Goldrick is also concerned about the recruitment of top students. He noted that it is impossible to define a quality university without a quality student body. The availability of in­stitutionalized funds is a top priority for Goldrick and he thinks that the administration has recognized the ~ problem and will make it one of its top priorities. 


Yassir Arafat, chairman ofthe PLO, thanks the audience at the annual conference ofthe Inter-Parliamentary Union.(AP Photo) 

~~ 
NOTRE DAME vs. MICHIGAN HOME NIGHT GAME Saturdav. september 18, 1982 

~ Special Attractions *******************.. 
a-rSPECtALHOURS. SPECIAL MENU.. _ . 
-Open noon to1 am . Featuring our regular dmner menu mcludmg all your Bar-B-Que favorites. Famous low prices too! 
SPECIAL CARRY OUT SERVICE· 
By popular demand: our Hickory smoked ribs and chicken offered 'to go'. Call ahead tor details and prompt service. 
SPECIAL SANDWICH MENU. 
Not available any other time, but for this event. Extra generous B·B·O Beef, french dip , ham and swiss·each only $4.25 or Chicken Teriyaki at $4.95. 
Special Late Night 
* EARTHSHAKERS $2.00 

SPECIAL 3dri11ks ill 011e 
* BUCKETS OF BOOZE $4.00 
SPECIAL 6ozof booze 
* PITCHERS OF BREW 
SPECIAL :ti3.75 

62886 us 31 North


!.:~:~~~~.~©= j ~·~~~-1~1P.M 21:JIOIAIMiinltlhlello*lun~:~~:eRioEin:IVOIFIMI~I:I~I~I~IITii~I4S.!95!!!!!1···Sout··h·Bendii:::•~2!!!7~2~·54.718·····
..­
The Observer Thursday, September 16, 1982-page 6 

Brezhnev attacks Reagan's peace plan 
MOSCOW (AP) -Soviet Presi­dent Leonid I. Brezhnev called Presi­dent Reagan's peace plan for the Middle East "basically vicious" Wed­nesday for denying the Palestinians an independent nation, and an­nounced his own proposals for "lasting peace." 
Brezhnev's plan is the third major initiative for a comprehensive Middle East peace settlement in as many weeks, and appeared identical to the plan adopted by the Arab sum/ mit meeting in Fez, Morocco last week. 
He seemed to be bidding for a more active role in a settlement by emphasizing the role of the U.'ll. Security Council or its permaner.t members, ofwhich the Soviet Union is one. Brezhnev alo reiterated the long-standing Soviet proposal for an international conference on the Middle East. 
The Fez declaration was adopted a week after Reagan laid out his own blueprint for a Middle East settle­ment. 
Israel immediately rejected both the Arab plan and Reagan's which differs in several respects from both the Arab proposals and the Israeli government's position. 
Brezhnev, speaking at a Kremlir dinner for South Yemen's Presiden· Ali Nassar Mohammed claimet Reagan was merely "pretending tt be trying to find a settlement of tht Middle East conflict." 
"But the proposals of the U.S.A. are basically vicious," Brezhnev said. "They deny the Palestinians the :ight to self-determination and crea­tion oftheir own statt; ..." 
The Soviet leader said he was "profoundly convinced," in con­trast, that his own proposals could obtain "a just and lasting peace in the Middle East." 

Like the Fez plan, they call for: 

-complete Israeli withdrawal from the West Bank of the Jordan River and the Gaza Strip, including dis­mantling ofJewish settlements. 
-Establishment of a sovereign Pales1inian state on those territories, inclm.'ing Arab east Jerusalem, which Israel annexed in 1980. 
-Giving Palestinian refugees the 
opportt·nity to return to their for­
mer hones in Israeli territory or get 
"approp 'iate compensation for the 
propert) trley left." 
As an alternative, not .offered in 
the Fez 1I; n, Brezhnev suggested a 
guarante• · hy the council's five per­
manent n embers: France, China, the 
Soviet U1 !on and the United States. 
Secure, inviolable borders for Is· 
rael and its Arab neighbors, includ­
ing the "r 1ght ofall states in the area 
to safe and independent existence." 

First meeting 
·Seven join Saint Mary's Board of Regents 
Seven new members will join the Saint Mary's College Board of Regents when it convenes for its first mt: :ting of the 1982-83 academic year October 14. 
\1ark A. BambeneJ.:~ professor of ch ·mistry at Saint Mary's will serve as .'lt: faculty reresentative to the BoaJ. I r Regents. A native of Iron Moun a 1, Michigan, Bambenek has been a mt mher of the Saint Mary's faculty il ce 1965. In 1970 he received tile Outstanding Teacher Award fn. rr the Saint Mary's College 
...........................................' ...................... 
Bring this add to the auction a It you will receive $50.00 off your purchase. Minimum 11 rchase $200.00. Limit to one card per pur :l1ase. 
We will liquidate a large selection ot BA:NDMADE, PBRSIO:N and ORIE:NTAL RUGS so d piece by piece to the H1 C:·HEST BIDDER 

Public Auc·jon 
PERSIAN & ORIENT/I.,_ RUGS 
ThiS list includes 0Ver400valuablt> HAND ~.\DE PERSIAN & ORIEN· TAL RUGS from China, Pal<rstan, Romania, India, ,f ~hanistan, Turkey & Per· sia. Silk invesm.ent pieces. Super Chinese, Bo~ Has, lsphahans, Hunting Scene K111shmir Oums, Ka:;han, Sculptured Aubu· sons, Tree of Life Tabriz, Kermans and Hallway Runners. Approximate size; range from 2x3 to 

10xl4 
1"150 
-
-
SUXDAY Sept. 19 at 3p:in 
0 
:PREVIEW: One hour prior 

MARRIOTT HOTEL Ball Boom South Bend DO)R 
PR ZE GIVEN 
Auctioner: Gabriel Farahan: 
1hia offer only valid for above mentLmed auction. Void where prohibited by law. A certificate of Value & AuthP.ntic11y w1tn ev'iirt rug r>•.HChased 
Terms: cuh, check or charge 117.a,8-RUGS 8702 Keystone Crossing Indianapolis 46240 
CRoyaQ QaQQeJty Ob CRugg, 9ne. 
0 

.... ......................................•......................... 
john P. Rovard, president ofPax Christi, speaks at one oftheir meetings. (Photo by Melinda Hopkins) 
Student· Government Association and was presented the Sister Maria Pieta Award for excellence in lower­division teaching in 1980. He served as Scientist-in-Residence for Ar­gonne National Laboratory in 1980­81. 
Sisterjoan Marie Steadman, C.S.C., director of novices for the Sisters of the Holy Cross, will also he a mem­ber. She moved to South Bend in July from her former post as vice prin­cipal, dean of girls and director of student activities at San Joaquin Memorial High School. She also has taught on the elementary and secon­dary levels. 
Sister Jeannine Jochman, C.S.C., currently serves as superintendent of schools in the diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend. A 1965 graduate of Saint Mary's, Sister Jeannine earned her master's degree from the University of Notre Dame in 1972. A member of the C.S.C. Midwest Senate and the Catholic Ad­ministrators of Catholic Education, SisterJeannine serves as treasurer of the Indiana Non-Public Education Association. 
Houston, Texas, residents Con­stance Baird Linbeck and Alana Moynahan Rosshirt also have joined the Board of Regents. 
Linheck, a l9S9 graduate of Saint Mary's and former recipient of the Mother Rose Elizabeth Biology Award, is president of The Camp Store in Houston. She is a member of the Charity Guild, the River Oaks Women's Association and the Saint Mary's Alumnae Club of Houston. 
Rosshirt recently began her term as president of the Saint Mary's Alumnae Association. A 195S graduate ofSaint Mary's, Rosshirt is a member of the Houston Grand Opera Guild and serves on its ad­visory board. 
Robert ). Welsh, president of Welsh Oil, Inc., in Merrillville, also joins the Board of Regents. He received his bachelor's degree in finance from the University ofNotre Dame in 1956. A former first lieutenant in the United States Army, Welsh serves on the board of directors of the Gary 

A Great Place To Go 
You can even bring your parents 
The Oaken Bucket 




Well 

Ironwood on the River Phone 289-1616 
Famous for our Charburgers Full Dinner Menu Family Dining 0 Entertainment 
National Bank, the Ryan Insurance Group, the Andrean High School foundation and the Trade Winds Rehabilitation Center. 
Recipient of the Notre Dame "Man of the Year" Award in 19..,2, Welsh completed terms as president of the Notre Dame Club of Calumet and the Gary Lions Club. He also is past national brand chairman of the Phillips Petroleum Company. 
Mary Esther (Mimi) McKelly, a senior at Saint Mary's will serve as student representative to the Board of Regents. 
A native ofSaint Louis, Ms. McKel­ly is majoring in humanistic studie~ and English literature. She has been a member ofthe Orientation Commit­tee and served as co-chairman of founder's Day activities in 1980-81. An active participant in various dance programs sponsored by the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Com­munication and Theatre Depart­ment, McKelly also worked as a residence hall advisor last year. 


Man has foot. chopped 
A man recruited friends who chopped off his foot with a hatchet to fool investigators in a S210,000 insurance swindle, authorities said Wednesday. 
Two men were held on SIOO,OOO bail in San Jose on charges of in­surance fraud, grand theft and con­spiracy in a scheme that shocked even hardened accident inves­tigators. 
"I just would never believed someone would offer a foot for $100,000," said Milt Smith, a criminal investigator in Sacramento for Farmers Insurance Group. 
Authorities said Yarrington and the second man charged, Bruce Wayne Krafft, 29, enlisted Ms. Mar­tinez, 47, to help pull off the staged accident and injury . 

FIRE UP-FOR FOOTBALL AT BRIDGET'S
. 
EVERY Mon & lues 7 -1 0 25¢ Beer  4-7 Daily Happy H~ur  NOTICE! _ Change in specials for Thursday  Thurs 9/16 Blue Nun Party  PRIZES: -Mirrors, T-Shirts and Cheeseboards  


I
GET INTO THE SPIRiTS AT BRIDGET'S 
• I 

The Observer Thursday, September 16, 1982 -page 7 
Staff's reports conflict 



Senator Lugar voted for tax break 
INDIANAPOLIS ( ap) -Despite his Daniels said the Indiana Republican 1978 and again in 1981 for the DISC staffs claims to the contrary, U.S. had cast only one vote on the tax tax break. Sen. Richard G. Lugar twice voted break, known as DISC, and that was "Senator Lugar's reactions to my for a controversial tax break that ul· to reduce the extent of the tax charge that he is 'cashing in' on his timately benefitted hts family busi­preference. Senate seat have been full of ·con­
ness, the Congressional Record But documents made available by tradictions, not without untruths, shows. Democrat Floyd Fithian Lugar's op­and absolutely unconvincing be­In an interview Monday with the ponent in the U.S. Senate race this cause the documents prove other­Associated Press, Lugar aide Mitch fall, show that Lugar voted once in wise," Fithian said in a statement 
released Wednesday. 
The tax law allows companies which set up domestic international sales corporations -disc for short -to 
...Lerner 
shelter from taxes 50 percent of their profits from export sales. Fithian raised the DISC issue in degrees from Columbia Univ. and their debate last week and at a news
continuedfrom page 1 
who served for several years as an conference on Monday, accusing Born in Russia in 1902, Lerner, executive of the New York City Lugar of a conflict of interest by 
nearing 80, emigrated to the U.S. public school system. voting for a legisla/ tion that ul­when he was five years old. He holds Lerner commented on his timately would benefit his personal law and social science degrees from endowed professorship. "I feel very interests. 
Yale University, Washington Univ., excited about the fact that Mr. Contacted in Washington on and the Robert Brooking Graduate Welch has supported something so Wednesday, Lugar press secretary School. important to American Studies," he Mark Helmke conceded that the 
The author of several books on said. senator had voted twice in favor of American history and culture, Ler­Two m1m courses, also in DISC in addition to voting for the ner has taught at Harvard University, American Studies, will be taught by recent $100 billion tax bill that 
Sarah Lawrence College, Williams Lerner in the second semester. One reduced the extent ofthe tax break. College, Brandeis University, will be on presidency, the other on The other votes in favor of DISC (where he as dean of the graduate "Eros in America." 
had been overlooked, he said, be­school), and finally at the United Concurrently, Lerner is working cause Lugar casts thousands ofvotes States International University in San on his memoirs, which he hopes will every year and cannot remember all 
Princess Grace of Monaco poses in a photo taken before her recent death. ( APPhoto)
Diego. come out in one more year. ofthem. 

Lerner is also the former editor of The Nation, the former columnist of the New York Star., and the former editor oftheEncyclopedia ofSocial Sciences, among many other jour­nalistic and intellectual achieve­ments. 
The endowed chair honors W. Harold Welch, a retired executive of the New York Telephone Co. who graduated from Notre Dame in 1924, and his wife, Martha, who holds baccalaureate and · master's 
Security Procedures Outlined 
On all home football weekends, access to all residence halls will be by one main entrance door only. An tndividual from the residence hall or University staff will be stationed at that door. All persons who are not Notre Dame or St. Mary's students will be denied admission unless they are a guest ofa hall resident in which case they must sign a guest register. 
The Rectors of Notre Dame residence halls have decided to con· tinue the policy inaugurated last year limiting the access of outsiders to their halls on the Friday and Satur· day evenings of home football weekends. The policy was effective in lessening problems with un­derage drinking, theft, and van· dalism. Hall Rectors noted that the cooperation ofthe ND/SMC student community played a positive role in the improved conditions and atmos­phere in residence halls on football weekends. 
The residents ofthat hall need not show an ID card ifthey are known by the hall staff person at door. All other Notre Dame and St. Mary's students going into that hall must show an ID card but need not sign the register. 
On the evening of the Michigan game security personnel will be as­signed to each hall and will be on duty from 7 p.m. until 2 a.m. They will assist Hall staffs in the im­plementation ofthis policy. 
This procedure will begin not later than ' p.m. on Fridays and Saturdays of home football weekends. Hall staff personnel wll admit University personnel and families of hall residents. 
Hall residents who assist outsiders to enter the hall during these restricted times contrary to the above will be subject to appropriate action by Head Staff or Hall Judicial Boards. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
~ . 
.·.· 




This calculator thinks business. TheTI Student Business Analyst: 
If there's one thing undergrad business students have always needed, this is it: an affordable, business-oriented calculator. The Student Business Analyst. Its built-in business formulas let you perform complicated finance, accounting and statistical functions-the ones that usually require a lot of time and a stack of reference books, like present and future value calculations, amortiza­tions and balloon payments. 
It all means you spend less time calculating, and more time learning. One keystroke takes the place of many. 
The calculator is just part 
of the package. You also get 
a book that follows most business courses: the Business 
Anal-vst Guidebook. Business prof;ssors helped us write it, to help you get the most out of calculator and classroom. A powerful combination. 
Think business. 
4P 
With the Student Ut 
Business Analyst. 
TEXAS 





INSTRUMENTS 


Business & TechnologyThursday,september16,1982-pages 
Economic U date · 
Overall U.S. industrialoutput dropped o.5 pet­cent in August from July, reflecting a decline in auto and business equipment production, the government reported today. The decline was the 11th monthly slump in 13 months. Today's report followed signs Tuesday that a consumer-led recovery from reces­sion is still elusive. U.S. automakers reported early September sales of new cars fell to the lowest daily rate in 15 years and the Con­ference Board, a busir,ess-financed study group, said consumer con­fidence in the economy declined in August after rising in four previous months. 
Negotiators for Chrysler Corporation and the 
United Auto Workers returned to the bargaining table today after extending the current contract and pushing back a strike deadline until midnight tonight. "We're not very, very close, but we think there is sufficient reason to try for 24 more hours -it's not as close as I would like to be," UAW president Douglas A. Fraser said at a news conference just 20 minutes before the current contract was set to expire at midnight Tuesday. He added, ho~ever, "there will not be any extensions" beyond midnight tonight for the current pact, covering 43,200 working U.S. autoworkers plus another 40,000 on indefinite layoff. -AP 

Wall Street Update 
The Dowjonesindustrial average climbed to a new 13­
month high Wednesday as the stock market recorded its third con­
secutive gain. Dow Jones' average of 30 blue chips rose 7.45 to 
930.46, its highest close since it stood at 936.93 on Aug. 14, 1981. 
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 69.68 million 
shares, against 83.07 million the day before. Bank stocks, under 
pressure until recently because of worries about the international 
financial system, continued the rally they began on Tuesday. Ad­
vances outpaced declines by about 9 to 5 on the New York Stock 
Exchange. -AP 




Are these con1panies American? 
posable lighters and razors) come to products as Ex-Lax, Good Humor ice
By MILTON MOSKOWITZ 
us via Marcel Bich of France; Timex cream and Red Man chewing tobac­
Special to the Observer 
watches (and soon computers) from co are all foreign-owned these days a Norwegian group, and good old --Ex-Lax by a Swiss company Atka-Seltzer, born in Elkhart, Ind., (Sandoz), Good Humor by an Anglo­The Budd Company of Troy, has been bought out by the old Ger­Dutch company ( Unilever) and RedMichigan, bid recently on a contract man chemical colossus, Bayer. Man by a British conglomerate
to supply 825 subway cars to the Finally, such grand old American (Grand Metropolitan).
New York City transit authority. Its bid came in at about $800,000 a car. However, Budd lost out to a Canadian company, Bombardier, which had help from the Canadian government in the form offinancing at 9. 7 percent interest. 
Budd cried "foul," claiming that this low-interest financing violated international trade agreements. But Treasury Secretary Donald T. Regan refused to intervene, ruling that the tinancing was not a major factor in the award. Indeed, New York Citv'~ transit chief. Richard Ravitch, sald: "We already have a lot of business with Budd, and we don't want to put all our eggs in one basket." 
Budd, an old railway car builder whose roots go back to Philadelphia, where it was founded in 1912, warned that the award to Bombar­dier was bad news for American Companies. Budd said it could have "damaging repercussions through­out U.S. history" by encouraging 
Interstate Commerce Commission Chairman Reese Taylor

other foreign governments to 
stands before a map showing the merger of three railroads into a

bypass trade agreements and sub­
single line -the Missouri Pacific, Union Pacific and Western

sidize their companies into the 
Pacific

American market. 
One of the ironic twists to the Budd protest is that while it was wrapped in the American flag, this is no longer an American-owned com­
Prof investigates pany. Budd still produces here, but for some time it has been a 100 percent-owned subsidiary of Thys­

nuclear destruction 
sen, a big German steel producer. So all the parties involved here are ByJOHN BRESLIN built in a western desert most ef­
foreign-owned. And that's becoming 
News Staff fectively shows us how a nuclear ex­
increasingly the case as more and plosion would affect a modern city.
more U.S. companies pass into Scientists can already determine
foreign hands. Most of us do not consider the im­general radiation and blast effectsMany companies you might think pact of a nuclear explosion on such within five miles of a nuclear explo­
urban centers as Chicago, New York,
are American, such as Budd, are no sion. Kanury studies more specific
or Los Angeles. Scientists, however,
longer. Howard Johnson'. How effects such as the arrangement of
are constantly exploring such mor­
-American can you get? It's owned by bid possibilities to predict nuclear buildings, window breakage, and HOPPER SCHOLDER BOTERO LICHTENSTEIN Britain's targest cigarette maker, the destruction patterns. whether heavy winds will fan or ex­Imperial Group. Hygrade hot dogs? Dr. A. Murty Kanury, an associate tinguish fires. 
0 0 It's owned by another British outfit, professor ofaerospace and mechani-A Nuclear Defense Agency first­)::.. ~ Hanson Trust, owner also of the big cal engineering at Notre Dame, is year grant of S49,730 provides the r-~ shoe company, Endicott-Johnson. conducting studies to determine if funds needed to determine if some 0 ~ The Bic ballpoint pens (and dis-the test blast of a scale model city ofthose factors can be accurately es­
::0~ ~ 
.------------------------------------~ ~ AGOSTINO'S Specializing in 

s: Prime Rib, Seafood, Steaks and 
0 ~Vhlstle serving your favorite cocktails. OPEN 12:00pm Sat., Sept., 18 
2: ;Step
~ 
for N D's First game.

""'i 
602 So. Walnut
::e 
South Bind TAKIXG RESERVATIOXS
"< 
232-2494 xow
~ 
Banquet rooms available 
~ 
with option to create your own menu. Serving dinner at Spm Mon. • Fri. 
;B 
:b 2: 
~
Jazz Up. Your Walls " 2: 
""'i 
with a selection from :X: 
:b 
Northern Indiana's finest collection of r­
r­
~
poster art and original works. ::0 
;:! "'tJ s: :n 0 
)::.. We frame--Plain or fancy ""'i "< ~ 
0 :n 
C) Open Tues -Sat 10:00-9:00 :b 
0 C) 

~ Sunday 12:00-5:00 ~ 
:b2: in the 100 Center, Mishawaka ­
0 
0 ~
E -{Jal/e!Jl. (next to the Ice House)~ 
2: "-.3 --JCD 259-8538 ~ 
2: ~ 
~ SECUNDAYMOTHERWELLVASARELY :n 


timated by scale model testing. Con­tinuation of the grant is proposed over an additional four years. 
"The first year will tell us the pos­sibility ofcapturing the real features, Kanury said. "We could build a one­one hundredth scale ofManhattan in the New Mexico sands and use a five megaton TNT blast to determine if the model will give us a realistic picture. 
In determining the feasibility of such a model, Kanury will rely on some established research theories on air flow and the spread of fire. Those theories will serve as a start­ing point in learning about the un­known effects. Kanury said current studies are inadequate to determine 
whether glowing combustion, aug­mented by initial winds, would erupt into large scale fires. He added that only scant data exists on the eruption and spread of "secondary fires, those starting after the initiaJ blast wave subsides. 
The behavior of mass fire is a cru­cial aspect of Dr. Kanury's studies. He describes a mass fire as one so large that control is impossible ­one having sufficient fuel to burn for days while being strong enough to destroy meterological patterns. 
In an urban setting, Kanury said mass fires could be fed by interven· ing highways, parks, and the mix of residential, commercial, and in­dustrial districts. 
The questions Kanury studies will add to knowledge scientists have been gathering since World War II. In the event of a nuclear explosion, Kanury assessed,"We know things would be bad intuitively, qualitatively and psychologically. But how bad is bad? There is no in­formation, so we need a quantitative 
measure. We need to know what the 
proper concerns are. 
--~ 








Editorials 
Thursday, September 16, 1982-page 9 

An appeal to reason 
Quite an unusual sight was seen on campus last week. What conviction is shown by a fel­low nicknamed "Crazy War" who comes to Notre Dame carrying a cross! With reference to the flyers he had distributed around campus, I would like to compare and contrast Mr. Woroniecki's approach for "instucting the faith" to the approach our own Catholic faith gives us. 
David M. Schorp 
Chautauqua in Faith 

Mr. Woroniecki describes in this handout what he would probably say was the most im­portant moment in the building of his own faith. "I went to a Christian Conference ... and saw people tilled with power, joy, and meaning. I ... knelt down, there (at Notre Dame). and gave God my whole life....1 was horn again into !lis Ll\'ll'<G SPIRIT." He then relates his feeling of "a deep awareness and presence of the living Jesus in my heart." At this point, the mention of the phrases "lightning holt" and "little ritual"hint that the experience :\1r. Woroniecki went through b very much like that of many fundamentalist Christian denominations, in relation to "salvation." The rest ofthe article is also spent in a fundamentalist manner. with strict, literal, and frequent reference to Scripture. 
I believe Mr. Woroniecki's approach to relaying the gospel message is much like the fundamentalist's, which in some regards might best be described as "an appeal to the emotion." Growing up in the southern Bible Belt, I was once persuaded by a young friend of mine to attend a Wednesday night Baptist service. There was this song, and each verse was a day ofthe week, and when it got to your day, the day you had been "saved," you stood up. There were three or four of us innocent young kids who were sitting down at the end of the song,right in the middle of this con­gregation of two hundred, and we were im· mediately pounced on by all the old ladies. 
This is not meant to sound disrespectful. This kind ofemotionalism probably appeals to some people, and so does them much good. 
The Catholic Church is a different story, and appeals not only through the emotion (such as in songs in the Mass), but also by a distinctly different means: by reason. Cat· holicism is one of the few denominations which welcomes and promotes scientific ad­vancement. Notre Dame offers the examples of Dr. Tom Dooley and Fr. Nieuwland. The Church incorporates the increase of man's knowledge into itself and evolves. What ex­traordinary strength and security it takes for an entity to be able to openly examine and question itself, and grow with new ideas. Ifan institution is not strong it will stubbornly cling to old ideas and values. 
The Church offers to its members a very relevant means of instruction, that which comes through reason. Not only can Scripture be quoted, but it can be meaningfully applied to life's everyday experiences. This result is a very practical, relevant communication of life's wisdoms. Many priests are so easy to talk to, because they ar<l well versed in the humanistic sciences of philosophy, psycholo· gy, and sociology as well as theology. 
To say that faith can only be taught by references to the Bible is to belittle faith. The human sciences can be thought of a.~ man's attempt to describe life. If faith contains all the wisdoms oflife. then aren't man's efforts in life most ba.~ically directed toward the practical de!>triptiof1 of faith' Faith is a commitment. Is a commitment best established on the basis of emotions, which vary from minute to minute, or on reason, which seeks to comprehend? 
Mr. Woroniecki, I empathize with you. You and I are trying to do the same thing: to relate the necessity and benefit offaith. We are both strongly convinced that we can do good, and we both rely on our backgrounds for our ap­proach. 
I've undertaken the writing of this column because of how good Notre Dame is, how great is the potential here to "love the world" via our individual talents and abilities. But when I see a beautiful young woman gossiping about another, or hear a housekeeper describe the "sexcapades" in the women's dorm she used to work in, or when I follow two young fellows along the sidewalk who are p:!~~ing a joint back and forth, I force myselfto put aside fears of sounding self-righteous and try my l:>est to write something that humbly appeals to our reason. If I hadn't been so for­tunate as to have been raised by loving parents, and had had access to more than those few wonderful Catholic priests who were able to answer life's questions when I needed answers, I would probably now be running around somewhere carrying a cross, too. 

Ever since Pierre de Coubertin began the movement to revive the Olympic Games in the late 1HOOs. and since the Games. tin ally first took place in I H96, they have been rife with controversy. No modern Olympiad has been free from it, and it has been getting worse. The .\toscow Olympics of 19HO were 


Tim Neely 
My Turn 

boycotted by more nations than had ever done so in the past, including, of course, the United States. The 1984 Los Angeles Olympics are still two years away, yet they have been the subject of more pre-Olympiad con· troversy than any in modern history mainly because the organizers wanted to do some· thing apparently alien to most organizers in the past: they do not want to lose money. 
The expense to the host city ofan Olympiad has been enormous. Munich, host of the 1972 Games, lost over 5200 million; Montreal in· curred a debt of at least S 1 billion; and Mos­cow reportedly went 5 billion dollars into the red on its last extravaganza. After these staggering losses to the host cities, it is no wonder that only two cities -Los Angeles and Teheran, Iran -bid for the 1984 Games, and Teheran withdrew from the bidding when unrest on the home front became too great. 
As a result ofthis bidding monopoly, the Los Angeles Olvmpic Organizing Committee 
Publisher faces great risk with USA Today 
A bold new venture began yesterday when a national newspaper, USA Today, hit the streets for the first time. In an age when newspapers are closing at an alarming race, the biggest newspaper chain in the country is trying to start what they hope will become the nation's largest-selling paper. 


Skip Desjardin 
On the Media 

"If we are successful with USA Today, the combination ofour existing local and regional newspapers, our widespread broadcasting, outdoor and other operations could make Gannett the indisputable leader in the in­formation business for your lifetime and mine," says the Gannett Co.'s president and chairman, AI Neuharth. "That's our modest goal." 
But it won't he that ea.~y. The idea behind USA Today is to provide people with a com­prehensive overview of the news. The paper will feature a lot of pictures, fancy graphics, and the most far-reaching coverage of sports and weather available to newspaper readers anywhere. 
Official company line is that the paper will target travellers and the 100 million people who have moved in the last ten years. These people, the policy-makers say, don't care as much about local news as they do about world and national events. So Gannett hopes that most big-city readers will buy USA Today for their news and sports -and that those who really want local news will buy the local paper only as a supplement to Gannett's own coverage. 
The stories will be short, and there will be more features than hard news. As one high· level editor told me, "We're going after the 4 percent ofthe American population that reads. People magazine." 
The risk to Gannett is incredible. Though the company reported pre-tax profits of 5338 million in 1981, start-up costs for this project are estimated at SlOO million. The new paper has skimmed off the top talent at many of the chain's smaller papers. If it fails, USA Today could bring the whole Gannett empire top· piing down with it. 
And no one really knows if the project will fly. There are those who say that people in Chicago, for instance, can get all the news and sports they need from that city's two existing papers. But there are also those who feel that readers, dazzled by the graphics and full-color pictures and comforted by the paper's simple, superficial style, will abandon their local papers in droves. 
john Morton, an analyst with the Wasington brokerage firm of Lynch, Jones and Ryan, says, "Nobody has any idea what its going to turn out to be like. In a year it could have a circula­tion ofone million or 50,000. My uncertainty stems from an inability to envision who will read it.'' 
I, for one, can't wait to see USA Today. At 40 pages per day, it promises far better sports coverage than any paper east of Boston, and a wide-ranging news coverage that doesn't get bogged down in details. They plan to give you the story in as short and simple a style as pos­sible. 
That's all I need in a paper. With cable television and expanded network news -not to mention news magazines -I can get all the in-depth analysis I want on the stories that are important to me. On a day-to-day basis, all I want is a round-up of the news. I think there are millions of,eople who feel the same way. 
Gannett will beam the paper's pages by satellite to printers across the country. ensur­ing fresh news when the paper hits the stands. In other words, USA Today should be able to bring South Bend readers late stories and sports scores that the Midwest Edition of the Chicago Tribune cannot. 
Unfortunately, the paper won't make its way here until April at the earliest. By then, the brave experiment may have paid off-or USA Today may no longer exist. 
( LAOOC ), the first such group ever to exist independently of city government, gained tremendous bargaining power. They were able to get the International Olympic Com­mittee to waive two rules, one involving TV rights and the other, respon~ibility for ex­penses. These alteration~ allowed the Los An· -' geles Olympics to become the ti.rst Games to be tlnanced from private funds. 
The protests, naturally, arise from non­capitalist nation~. They claim that the Olym· pies should not be a money-making proposition first and a sports showcase second. In that respect they may have a point. But is it fair to the permanent residents of a city for its government to go billions ofdollars into debt for the benefit of a few? No amount of revenue generated by a two-week sports carnival could recoup the losses generated from an all-new Olympic complex. Montreal's experience certainly proved that; its citizens still pay for Olympic debts today, and the mammoth Olympic Stadium, now used by the Montreal Expos, is still missing the roofwhich was supposed to be on it for the 1976 Olym· pies. And most certainly the 19HO Games did not positively affect Moscow's standard of living, iftheir government even cares about it. 
What Los Angeles is doing is almost un­heard offor an Olympiad: those that are being built (e.g., a cycling velodrome, a couple of new dorms at USC and UCLA for housing ath· letes -and future college students) have been financed privately, with no expense to the host city. So far the only new project L.A. is paying for is badly-needed improvements at 
L.A. International Airport, a good use of tax· payers' dollars as it will continue to be of use to Los Angelinos after 1984. 
Only one prior Olympiad made money ­the 1948 London Games. They were forced to use existing structures because World War ll reconstruction was (justifiably) deemed more important than a sports festival. In es­sence, the LAOOC is saying something similar: why must a city spend money needed for domestic problem-solving on sports buildings that are unnecessary and will be little-used? If the countries with alien systems cannot see that draining its citizens for the sake ofa two­week series of "amateur" sports events does nothing for the home country except create insoluble debts, then the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics may be the last. 



Editorial Board Department Managers 
The Ob1en•er i-; an independent new~paper publiShed by the students of the 
Ftlitor i11-Chic(. \tichad \tonk llusincss .lltllltl,t:<'r . Tony Aidlo 
llni\Tr"ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Co\\cgc .. It does not ne..-es~ari!y 
.1/t//lll,(:ill,~ l:ditor .... HLlll \'er lkrknH>e~ Cunfrullcr Frit· Sdllll/
refled the polJCies of the administratior• of either institution. The news ~~ report· 
Ln•cufil'<' \'cu·s Fdilor. .... l>i.clli Hint .·ldi'crtisin,~ .lltlllli,l-:<'1' ( hr" (>wen
ed J~ atcurate!y and as ob)cd1vcly J.s pu,sib\e. Editorials represent the opinion of 
.\.\/( \ell'S Fdilor \Llrgarel h>~llH>l' l'nuluctitlll .lltilltlgcr .\L1ura \turphy 
a !llJ)Oflty of the Edrtonal Board. (o,nmcntaries. opinions and letters are the views 
.\jwrts /:tlitor (:tm~ :'licnlln Cinu/atiu/1 .lltllltl,~t·r Ha\ lnglin 
of the1r author~. ( olumn sp.1cc " available to a\\ members of the lOmmunity, and 
l:'t/iiUI'IIIIs l:'t/itur l'aul-.\ldolllll .\ysft'/1/s .lllllltl,t:<'r I\run· ( );tkky 
the free expression oi varying opiniOns on campu:., through letters, i~ enLOunged. 
1-'clifllres Ftlitur Tari 1\rown l'hutll l:dilur IUdll'l 1\lounl h)llnded :'llovt·mht•r .-\. 1966
P.O.Hox Q. Notre Dame. IN <~6556 (219) 239-S:\0:\ 



~~()f1tS:/:l:,..:=~:·~~~~~S========~===================T=hu=r=sd=a=y,=S=ep=t=em=b=e=r=I6=,=1=98=2===p=ag=e=-I=o 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
'Wake Up the Echoes,' a brand new Notre Dame football highlight film pr-oduced by the renowned NFL Films, will be shown to the public this Sunday, September 19, in the Library Auditorium. The 50-minute film will be shown each hour from 3 to 9 
p.m. and spans the history oflrish football from 1888 to the present. 
-The Observer 

The ND field hockey team, undefeated at 2-0 following two we-ekend victories, takes on visiting Hope College today at 4 p.m. at Alumni Field. The Irish posted a pair ofimpressive victories last weekend, beating DePauw 6-0 on Friday night and coming back the next morning to defeat Alma College, 6-2. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's tennis teamis on the road again this afternoon as the Belles travel to Indianapolis to take on Butler Uni­versity. Then on Friday, the Belles stay at Butler to square off against DePauw. Saint Mary's is currently 2-0 after posting impressive 8-1 victories over both Valparaiso and Illinois-Chicago Circle last week. -The Observer 
See SPORTS BRIEFS,page 11 

Major league scoreboard 
Today's Games  Oakland  60  85  .414  24  
New York (Swan 9-6) at Montreal (Sanderson 10-11 ),  Texas  57  88  393  27  
n  .  Minnesota  53  92  366  31  
San D1ego (Dravecky 4-3) at San Franc1sco (Breinmg  
8-4).n  Yesterday's Results  
Only games scheduled  Toronto 3, Oakland 2 (1st)  
NATIONAL LEAGUE  Friday's Games  Toronto 12. Oakland 11 (2nd)  
East  St. Lou1s at New York, 2  Baltimore 5, New York 3  
W  L  Pet.  GB  Chicago at Montreal  Milwaukee 5, Detroit 3  
St. LOUIS  81  63  563  Atlanta at Cincinnati  Cleveland 7, Boston 4  
Ph1ladelph1a Montreal  80 79  65 65  .552 549  1.5 2  Pittsburgh at Philadelphia Houston at Los Angeles  Chicago 8, Cal1forma 3 Minnesota 10, Texas 2  
Pittsburgh  77  68  .531  4.5  San Diego at San Francisco  Kansas C1ty 5, Seante 4  
Chicago New York  63 56  83 86  432 394  19 24  Today'a Games Texas (Hough 14-11) at Minnesota (V1o\a 4-6)  
West  AMERICAN LEAGUE  Calitorma (Forsch 11-10) atToronto (Steib 14-13). n  
Los Angeles Atlanta  83 80  64 66  .565 .548  2.5  East W  L  Pet.  GB  New York (Righetti 9-8) at Ba1t1more (Pelmer 13-4), n Boston (Torrez 8-8) at DetrOit (Wilcox 10-7), n  
San Franc1sco  76  69  .524  6  Milwaukee  86  60  589  Oakland (Norris 6-10) at Ch1cago (Hoyt 15-14), n  
San Diego Houston  74 68  72 78  .507 .466  8 5 14.5  Balt1more Boston  84 80  61 65  .579 552  1.5 5.5  Seattle (Banmster 12-11) at Kansas City (Leonard 9­4), n  
Cincinnati  54  92  370  28.5  Detroit  72  71  .503  12.5  Only games scheduled  
New York  73  72  .503  12.5  Tomorrow's Games  
Yesterday's Results  Cleveland  71  73  .493  14  California at Toronto  
Montrea/6, New York 5 (11 inn.)  Toronto  67  78  .462  18.5  Cleveland at Ba1t1more  
St. LOUIS 8, Philadelphia 0  Wnt  Boston at DetrOit  
Chicago 7. Pittsburgh 2 Houston 5. Atlanta 4  Kansas City California  84 83  61 63  .579 .568  1.5  Oakland at Ch1cago Kansas City at Minnesota  
Los Angeles 5, San D1ego 0  Chicago  77  67  .535  6.5  Texas at Seattle  
San Franc1sco 5, Cincinnati 4  Seattle  67  77  465 16.5  New York at Milwaukee  



Classifieds 
WILL TRADE 2 PURDUE GA'S FOR 2 
2 GA MICH TIX 282-1734 ONLY AFTER MIAMi GA'S CALL KEVIN 1629 
6PM
NOTICES 

I need 5 sales people FAST tor this WANTED DESPERATELY--1 PURDUE weekend. If you'd rather have more STUD OR GA. PLEASE CALL WILL 282­IMPROVE YOUR GRADES\ Research money to spend partying next week call 
1026 Jerry at 277-6496. You will not necessari­catalog -306 pages-1 0,278 topics-Rush 
$1.00 to Box 25097C, Los Angeles. 

ly have to work during the game. NEED 2 PURDUE GA WILL PAY BIG
90025. (213) 477-8226. BUCKS CALL KEVIN AT 1996 WANTED; Two (2) tix tor the Arizona toot-
IS YOUR HAIR GETTING IN THE WAY ballgame.Ca11Daveat234-6473after6. ,WILL TRADE MY 2 PURDUE STU­

OF YOUR STUDIES?? CALL MICHOLE FOR A HAIRCUT TODAY! ONLY $4 FOR 

DENT TICKETS FOR 1 M\CH TICKET GUYS AND $6 FOR GIRLS BEST TO 
Wanted: 2 Purdue Tickets. Call M1ke at . CALL MIKE AT 1215 234-3224.
CALL AFTER 3 AT 7850 NEED MICHIGAN STUDENT TIX, GREG WANTED· Energetic, eager people tor
Improve Your Grades! Research catalog 7289 --306 pages--1 0,278 
general off1ce ass1stance. Saturdays, 1-5, 5-9, and Sundays 9-1, 1·5, start1ng Sept. NEED TWO MIAMI GA'S 2255 GREG 
25. $3.50 per hour-·pick your own shift.
WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM $2995 Close to campus but must have own 'HELP' I NEED 1 OR 2 PURDUE GAS!

64K Mlcrocomputer,letter quality pnnter, transportation. Call 277-5448 and ask tor CALL JILL 284-5149 Diane word process1ng software, CP/M, Bas1c 

Call277-7720 MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS BABYSITTERS wanted occasionally tor 
AVAILABLE PHONE 2334051 7-9PM professor's two chtldren. Near CAR PROBLEMS?? I AM A QUALIFIED 
THRU MSU ALUMNI CLUB. PERIENCE AND LOWER RATES THAN ANY GARAGE\\ CALL TODAY FOR A 
MECHANIC WITH LOTS OF EX­


FOR SALE: 2 Purdue tickets. Call Dave 
FREE ESTIMATE JOHN AT 1852 

FOR SALE 3673 

ME TOOitt Like everyone else. I needATTN MOBSTERS! lost at the Commons: Mich1gan tickets tor my parents. Plea..
rude boy Lev1 Jacket. it found call SULLY 

call M1ke at 272-5214. 1977 MGB, yellow. Good condition, Call 291-6713 after 5. Weekends anytime. NEED 2 GA'S tor MIAMI game (WILL or TIM 8946 
VIVA MEXICO!!! (aun ser tan endeudada) PAY TOP $) WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM, $2995. CALL LISA x2244. Help, please -64K Microcomputer, letter quality pnnter, word processing software, CP/M Bas1c NEED 2 PURDUE GAs or STUD TIX. Call277-7720. · 
BEST FRIEND & SISTER WANT TO SEE 
N.D BEAT PURDUE CALLLORIE 7895 
FOR SALE: 2 M\CH GA TIX. CALL 1-314­862-5748 
LOST/FOUND 

WANTED: 2 GA·s FOR THE NO-MIAMI$100 cash reward offered tor return of GAME CALLJEFF at 1165
swtcase Large. dark su1tcase wtth gtrfs clothing lost on August 27 probably near Ma1n C~rcle bus shelter Please call 255­

Need 1 T1cket Sec. 29 or two others tor
TICKETS 
Mich1gan Call Lisa x8527 3068. 
GA MICHIGAN TIX W1ll trade tor M1am1
lost: Gold cross on gold cha1n If found, I NEED 4 GA PURDUE TIX BIG $$$ call Don. 288-3051 CALL 1364 
and/or Penn State Call Collect (815) 385-2769 7-tO pm 
LOSTI 

NEED 4 MICH AND 2 PURDUE GAS ­Will the person who walked away ~rom WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR! KEVIN 1770 
WOW I HAVE MUCH MORE MONEY THAN SENSE, ALONG WITH A PRESS­ING NEED FOR 2 MIAMI GA'S CALL 
4th floor STANFORD (an Incredible floor, 

by the way) w1th my large stuffed BULL Help! Mom & Dad are coming tor thelf 1st 
KATIE AT 2948.
please return 11 to me at 431 Stanford or game 1n 4 years! I'll buy or trade tor 1 or 2 call 8765. Thank you. 
student or GA MICHIGAN t1x. Please call 
Need PURDUE GAs or Student tickets.
Jim at 3211 $$$.Call 287-3538 after 6 

LOST: A gold, nylon wallet. Tuesday FOR SALE: 4-6 M1ch1gan t1ckets 1n Miami M1am1 Miami
mght. tn the vtctnity of LaFor-tune. Save vanous locations. Call Dave at 3673 me a real hassle and please return tt to anytime I need THREE student tickets lor Mlam10r Mark at 1177 Reward tor 1ts return I ain't getting nothing lor Christmas. 
Desperately need two GAs now for Mtamt Please help me, and I'll give you all my Chris Seem---your class schedule ts tn game B1g Bucks Call Joe t 469 money. Call Jab at 8630 Merry the Observer office 
Christmas. 


Need Purdue GA·s. 289-7640 2 Purdue tiCkets, student or GA. needed Need M1ch student & Purdue GA s 289-W1lhng to trade 233-8163 7640
FOR RENT 


Famtly comtng for Miami game on Oct. 9. WILL PAY $35 FOR M\CH STU TICK JOHN 8172 
NEED 4 Tix. Please "call Mark at I 177 and 
name your price.
Furmshed home. 2 blocks from campus. 

Also country house. 10 m1ns. from ND DESPERATELY NEED 5 (32) TIX FOR Call277-3604 or 288-0955. MIAMI GAME. CALL COLLECT (312). 
NEED 2 gas tor PURDUE GAME--CALL 
SHOWER BAUER 284-5201
961-0423 

Room, share k1tchen. etc 2 m1\es to N.D. Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004 or 272-7818 NEED FOUR MICHIGAN GA TICKETS 
For Sale, 2 N.D -M1ch1gan GA Call ARTY, 
2187after 12 noon CALL Pat: 277-1836! 

Trade: Purdue-Arizona student tix cashNeed 2 PURDUE GAS for parents Call Leslie 288-1734 (best late). 
for any Mtamt ttx or Anzona GA·s call Mtke or Scott 1160 
WANTED 

Need Purdue GAs or student t1x. Call Bud at255-5348 
I M A DEAD MAN if I don't come up w1th 3 MIAMI GAs and/or 4 ARIZ GAs. Help NEEDED: 2 STUDENT T/Ct<ETS FOR save my very valuable ($$$$) neck! call 
Need 1 Purdue T1cket! Call Dan at 17 44 SEPT 25 PURDUE GAME CALL ANNE PHIL at 8295. even 11 you only have 1or 2. 4057 or CARRIE 4167 
DESPERATE! NEED 2 GAs FOR MIAMI. 
.WILL PAY/ CALL SUSAN 6983 NEEDED: 5 GA. S FOR OCT 9 MIAMI Michigan student t1cket tor sale Call John GAME WILL NEGOTIATE COST CALL at 277-1759. 
Need Many MICHIGAN GA TIX Please MAUREEN.5506 OR ANNE 4057 
call Tom at 1171 Need tour M1ch1gan tiCkets Call John at NEED RIDE To North NJ Any Weekend 277-1759
I nlltld 2 Purdue GA's. PLEASEilll Call 
KEN 8605 Joh~ Htggtns at 287-4186 (nights) or 23~5323 and LEAVE A MESSAGEII 

Need 2 or 4 student or GA t1ckets to theDESPERATE Need nde to LITTLE Mtamt game for vtsttmg relattves PleaseROCK SEPT 25 weekend. Will share call Joe at 6934: usual expenses can leave Thur or Fri 
needed 1 G. a or student t1cket tor m1ami 
morn. Call Greg 234-2456. 

game . W1ll pay Big Bucks.call Tom at 3160. PLEASE HELPIII Vialttng friend from NEED RIDE TO MILWAUKEE ON SEPT. 
the hills of West Virginia nlltlds ticket 
19. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME IN THE AF­stud season tb tic tor sale, best otter at to Michigan game (don't laugt>-we're TERNOON PLEASE CALL JIM AT 8891 1420 ....rlous). Cat/ 8765. 

L_ 
Will trade student season pass (sec. 30) for 2 Penn State GAs. Tickets must be located between the 30 yard lines. Call Mike at 272-4801. 
TRADE 2 STUDENT PURDUE OR MIAMI FOR 2 ARIZONA GA,OAN 288­8402 
Need M1ch GA'S Can pay 25$ a tix Call 277-7529 
FOR SALE 5 MICH. GAs & 1 STUD. TIC. CALL TOM 1101 
2 Mich GAs For Sale Best Offer.Call 3454 
NEED TWO (OR MORE) PURDUE TIX. Grandparents have never seen N.D. game before. Call John Dolan at 3137. 
TIME IS RUNNING OUT/I I still desperately NEED 2 Mich. Tix,Student OR GA. Name YOUR pnce!! Call Gary at 8679. 
Professtonally wrestling brother demands 2 (TWO) PURDUE TIX. GA or STUDENT Call PATT\4232 (the lite you save may be mme.) 
INEEDMICH TIX$$$JOE283-1154 
For Sale -2 GA t1x M1ch. game Call 233­2163or 234-5778 
Seven Michigan Tickets lor Sale 
Yes, seven Mtchtgan ttckets are for sale at a fatrly reasonable pnce. Alumm or nch parents or even students who wtsh to see thus histone event and have $1 100.00 can call 1858 for purchase. We are serious 
P S. For the seven M1ch1gan ticket packaqe deal lor $1100.00. a h1gh depos1t tor return of tickets, 1 e. an etghteen year Old vtrgtn, must be lett for collateral, call 1858 for your tickets now 
HELP!!! I need 1 or 2 GA or Stu Tixs to M1am1. Money talks. My wallet IS shout­Ing. Charlie x1027 
NEED 2 GAS FOR MICH DAVE 277­0955 
FOR SALE: 2 M1ch GA's W1ll trade tor 2 Penn St GA s or best otter Call Chns at t181 
Need t M1ch Student t1k. W1ll pay by$$ or other Student t1x. Call Tom 277-8061 
FOR SALE More M1ch IIXS. Call Dave 3673. 
need 2 Mich GAs Call J1m at 3342 
For Sale: 2 M1ch GA's; 50 YARD LINE $75 each/best otter Mike 1750 
I NEED 1 PURDUE TICKET. GA OR STUDENT CALL DICK AT 8712 
wanted desperately! 2 g a ux to purdue. Will pay bux deluxe. matt 277-4573 
DESPERATELY NEED GA T\XS FOR MICH PETE 232-1466 
Wanted: Two tickets lor the Michigan game Saturday. Cat/259-5356. 
HE~PI Dads a Purdue Alumnt, S1ster sa Purdue Freshman Need 1 Student and 2 GA 11ckets lor the game Call Momca at 2184 
6 GAs tor sale to Purdue game Call SMC 4421 
PLEASE' Desperatly need four (4) Stu­dent or GA·s tor M1amli W111 top ALL other offers just try me!! Call Kevm -6831. Call NOW! 
NEED TWO OR MORE ARIZONA TICK­ETS!!!!! PLEASE CALL MICHELE AT 3793\F YOU CAN HELP 
Need 2 GA t1x to PENN ST. Call LIZ 284­5166 
The Observer wtll accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear tn the next tssue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to insertton. All classifieds must be prepard. either tn person or through the matI. 
For sale: one student season football tick­et 284-4547 only between 8-10 p.m. 
tor sale 1 stu mich tix serious otters only Gerry 1521 
FOR SALE 1 MICH STUD. T\X best otter. Paul 8697/8692 
FOR SALE -Pair ND season tix. 234­0405. 
FOR SALE 2 M1ch GA & 2 Purdue GA tick­ets. Kim. 288-1917. 
Needed!! 4 PURDUE GA's or 2 ARIZONA GAs. $$$TOM 1723 
PERSONALS 

MOLARITY UVESI! 
Want to succeed 1n the class room? Want to be rich? Want to be successful? For more into, wnte to: JOE CAMPBELL AS­SOCIATES, 26 Onvers lane, laurel Spnngs, NJ 08021. Sales reps. wanted. 
ATTENTION LONG ISLANDERS: K1ck ott the football season right with this year's flfst LONG ISLAND CLUB HAPPY HOUR Fri., Sept. 17, 3:30-7, Bad1n lounge. Be there 
MOLARITY: NO OUTLET .Almost tunny .. 
Noble Roman sis now taktng apphcattons for part-ttme postttons Work schedule can be adjusted to your class schedule Day and ntght posttions open. Watters. waitresses must be 21 Apply 1n person 
AN AUTOGRAPH PARTYI!I with M1chael Molinelli, author of MOLARITY: NO OUTLET 
Thursday. Sept 16 
3pm 
Basement of LaFortune M1chae\'s mother will be there, too. 
Golfers· Used economy sets. bags, carts Regnp, etc. 3 m1les N. of ND 683-2516 Save th1s number' 
SENIORS !!! SOPHOMORES !!! "Riverboat Atde Fnday Evenmg Ttxs on sale Wed & Thur. La Fortune, 11:30 to 1:30& 7-8 
Wanted: Three student tickets 101 Miami Papa IS in the Mafia and can get you what ever you need. Call Jeb at 8630 
BOSTON CLUB HAPPY HOUR Fn. 17th 4-? CAMPUS VIEW across from pool. Look tor MASS. flag. Bnng bathmg SUitS 
BOSTON CLUB HAPPY HOUR FRIDAY 
BOSTON CLUB BASH-FRIDAY at CAMPUS VIEW-LOOK lor MASS. flag 
ATTENTION SWIMMERS: Volunteers needed 2 hours per week to help w1th the El Camp1t0 13-week sw1mm1ng program, teach1ng 2·1/2 thru 5 year olds at the Mish­awaka YMCA TUES & THURS. 1-2 PM Day Care ass1stance also needed at El Camp1to. Contact VSO (5293) 
GUllARIST needed tor Saturday morn­Ing ceo classes at Holy Family PariSh Call VSO 5293 
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED to help 1n the CCU WAITING ROOM at St. Joe Med1cal Center to serve as a hatson between famthes of cnttcal til pattents and hospttal staff. Two meetmgs MUST be attended the even1ngs of Sept 16 & 21. Interested? Contact VSO 5293 CCD TEACHERS/teacher-a1des tor 7th grade thru high school students are needed tor 1 hour on Sunday AM at St Mary·s Church, N1les, MI. Call VSO . 5293. 
Volunteer TUTORS needed tor Korean children, ages 9 & 11, who have limited English-speak1ng ab1lity. Call VSO-5293. 
GIRLS NEEDED A h1gh school aged g~rl or older (but not older than 21) IS needed to be a live-in maid tor a 6-man suite tn Grace. If mterested in many, many fringe benefits, stop by 2-C Grace tor applica­tions. 
Come to the Grand-Opening of­Barres'Hair Salon leaturing state of the art cake frosting shampoo jobs, not to mention other kinds ofjobs. 
BOSTON CLUB MEETING MONDAY Sept 20th 7:30 LaFortune ELECTIONS for ott1cers w111 be held Please attend Don't forget k1ckott HAPPY HOUR FRIDAY 
BOSTON CLUB ELECTIONS MON Sept 20, 7:30 LaFortune. Important meeting tor all from MASS. Don't forget KICKOFF HAPPY HOUR FRIDAY 
NEED 2 GA's FOR PURDUE GAME Call Norbat 8788 
Whoever copyed1ted yesterdays clas­Sifieds and deleted. b---o---, watch your­self. You re gettmg upity 
how dare you question my authorffy the system 
PITTSBURGH CLUB TAILGATER. SAT SEPT 18, 3:00 before M1ch. game. Free to P1ttsburghers (Aiumm and Students). 
Greenlield.  look  for  P1tt  Club  s1gns.  
Spons. by NO Clu b of Pgh  
ATTENTION  SMC  PANTY  

THROWERS... You are cordially invited to attend theftrat mHiing ofthe mini-skirt club this Friday in 224 Cavanaugh at 9:30. Wear your mini­skirts. Panties provided. 
ATTENTION 3RD FLOOR FARLEY FRESHMEN: Rumors of long legs and colorful outfits have prompted a spectal tnvttatton tor you to attend thts Fnday·s meeting of the MINI-SKIRT CLUB. 
Dear SuzJe. Happy belated birthday and I hope you have many more. Love, Goober 
THE GUYS FROM SOUTH PH ILLY ARE· BACK FOR THEIR SIXTH STRAIGHT HOME OPENER THE IRISH LOVERS ARE LEAD BY CAPT. HARVEY SUM­NER, GEORGE SUMNER. JIMMY RHOADES. TOMMY TANK GREEN. SAMBO HAMILTON, PHEUM DEAN, JOHNNY LYNCH. CHARLIE LIEB & BIL­LY FIDGET KENNEDY LOOK FOR THEIR CAMPER ON GREEN FIELD & 
JOIN THEM FOR A BEER 
SOUTH PH ILLY LOVES THE IRISH!!! 
AM· cheer up!!!-fun ttmes are ahead!!! love, your roomte 
Oh, the hum1d1ty.. 
Dear "Me Thanks for the cook1e Now. who the hell are you? EK 
How bout them Braves! Atlanta: Nobody steam Go Dodgers 
I didn't putthat m, buWhinkit was done in goodtaste1 
BRIAN G. -JOE ROTC II 


The Observer Thursday, September 16, 1982-page 11 
...Sports Briefs 
continuedfrom page 10 

Coming off its upsetof Michigan State on T~esday, the Notre Dame volleyball team will try to avoid a letdown this after­noon as it plays host to tiny Hope College in the ACC pit. The match begins at 5 p.m. -The Observer 
The deadline for sign ups for entry in the interhall cross­.i'>country meet for men and women is September 21. You may register by calling the NVA office at 239-6100-The Observer 
ND Hang Gliding Club is being organized. Call Ted Toerne at 287-7717 for information. -The Observer 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes will hold their next meeting on Monday, September 20, at 7 p.m. in the St. Ed's lounge. All are invited to attend. -The Observer 
..... 

Adrian Dantley, here playing for the 
Game. Tickets are still available at Gate 10 ofthe NBA Utah jazz, will be among the participants in ACC. (APPhoto). Saturday's Logan Center Benefit Basketball 
continuedfrom page 13 
Nolan Ryan, 15-11, was locked in a 2-2 tie with Atlanta's Tommy Boggs, 2-2, when Alan Ashby led off the seventh with a single. After moving to second on Danny Heep's grounder, Ashby was forced by Bill Doran, but Ryan was safe on second baseman Glenn Hubbard's fielding 
error  and  Terry  Puhl  walked,  
loading the bases.  
Boggs  was  lifted  for  reliever  

Donnie Moore, who surrendered Thon's bases-clearing drive, which landed just fair down the right field line. 
Brewers 5, Tigers 3 
DETROIT ( AP) -Roy Howell drove in three runs with a double and a single last night to lead Mil­waukee to a 5-3 victory over Detroit in the rubber game of the Brewers' three-game series with the Tigers. 
With the victory, Milwaukee remained 1 1-2 games ahead of the Baltimore Orioles -who beat the New York Yankees 8-5 -in the American League East. 
Gorman Thomas hit a two-out 
single in the second and scored on 
Howell's double. Howell then came 
home on Charlie Moore's single for a 
2-0 Milwaukee lead. 
Milwaukee starter Pete Vuck­
ovich, 17-4, went 7 1-3 innings, 

Welcome Back!!! 
PIZZA 

836 Portage Ave .. 
allowing 1 1 hits before getting relief help. Dwight Bernard finished up for his fifth save. Jack Morris, 16-15, went the distance for the Tigrs, giving up nine hits while striking out five and walking two. 
Twins 10, Texas 2 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -Gary Gaetti belted four hits and Lenny Faedo drove in three runs last night to power the Minnesota Twins to I 0-2 victory· over the Texas Rangers behind Bobby Ca~tillo's six-hitter. 
Castillo, 10-1 1, saw his streak of 20 2-3 scoreless innings snapped in the sixth inning on a two-run triple byJim Sundberg. 
Loser Frank Tanana, 6-18, lasted until the fifth, when the Twins scored three runs for a 6-0 lead. 
John Castino opened the fifth with a triple and after a walk to Tom Brunansky, was singled by home by Kent Hrbek. Both Brunansky and Hrbek later scored on Gaeti's single. 
Cubs 7, Pirates 2 
PITTSBURGH (AP)-Jody Davis belted a three-run homer and Keith Moreland and Leon Durham added solo shots last night as the Chicago 

For the Best in Pizza, Sandwiches, &. Cold Drinks 
Speedy Carry Out or Delivery .............. ......................,Phone 232-1883 ND -SMC checks accepted 
Delivery 
·Sunday-Thursday 4pm -11 pm Friday -Saturday 4pm -1 am 
... Baseball 
SI~IU~S 
SENlOR TRIP Balance of J335 

Cubs stopped the Pittsburgh Pirates 7-2. 
FergusonJenkins, 11-15, went the will be collected: distance despite allowing 11 hits in hurling his fourth complete game of the season. The victory was the 


\\)<>'l 

275th in Jenkins' career, 20th on the 

\.<>s

all-time list. 
With the Cubs leading 2-1 Dur­ham led off the sixth inning with his Thurs 16th 11:30 -1:30; 21st homer, off loser John Can­delaria, 12-7. After Moreland 8:00 -9:00pm doubled and Pat Tabler singled, En­rique Romo replaced Candelaria_ N D --La Fottune Davis greeted Romo with a long homer to left field, his 12th, to make SffiC -Leffians Lobb 
it 6-1. 



~--~-:~;;;~~~~~;~;~~-------*l 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
i 
~ 
i 
~ 
i i 
-~~.......~.......~~~............... ..,....,..._........... ~...,...................................,_.,.~....,.. ........................,...................................~..,... ............,...~...t 

Guaranteed Delivery Time f! ! 

W€€ken0 ChaiRP€RSOn ~ 
~ 

may be picked up in the Student Activities Office ~ LaFortune Building , ~ Tues.,Sept.14 ~ 
Wed.,Sept.15 ~ Thurs.,Sept.16 i They must be returned by 5 p.m. on Friday, Sept.l7~ to the Student Activities Office. i 
~ 


The Observer Thursday, September 16, 1982 -page 12 


Moses Malone, lastyear's NBA MVP, was traded with his wishes. See story at right. ( APPhoto) 
yesterday to the Philadelphia 76ers to comply 
Dine among the antiques and enjoy our view of the new downtown! 
Reservations Appreciated 2J4..9(X)() 121 South Niles South Bend 
AUTOGRAPHS!I 






4116!!!:! 
Thutsday, Sep.16 Lafortune Basement (The NAZZ) 3:30-5:00p.m. 
THURSDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL 
BUFFALO VS. miNNESOTA 
C. rand Opening This Weekend 4 Latge Colot T Vs 

Watch fot upcoming specials· 
401 E. Colfax Jtd Floot East Bank Cente1 
Apptoptiate Dtess Requited 

Buy the new book, have it signed by ffiolinelli and meet his chatming mothet II 
Satutday Sep. 18 ON THE QUAD II 
in ftont of Alumni Hall II! Still only 12.95!1! 
OakRoomC~e 
thuRs:n1qht Special 

Banana Splits 

$ hatr PR•c€ $ 
R€(j. $1.89 

9:00 -12:00 m10mqht 

Mosesgets]J.is wish; sent to Philadelphia 
HOUSTON (AP)-The Houston Rockets traded Moses Malone, the National Basketball Association's most valuable player last season, to the Philadelphia 76ers yesterday in exchange for forward Caldwell Jones and a first-round draft pick. 
Malone has been an NBA all-Star five times. He is considered one of the top rebounders in league his­tory, and the 76ers need help on the boards. 
The Rockets will get the tlrst· round pick in the 1983 college draft that the 76ers received in October 1977 from Cleveland in exchange for the late Terry Furlow. 
The Rockets will draft in 
Cleveland's position in the 1983 
draft and Rockets General Manager 
Ray Patterson said the team had a 
good chance to draft a top player. 
"Cleveland won 1 5 games last year and the club closest to them had :31 victories, so the law of averages suggest Cleveland will not finish very high,"' Patterson said. 
Paterson said the Rockets had 
won 40 plus games the past few 
years and were unable to draft top 
picks. 
Patterson said the trade of Malone was only the first step toward improving the Rockets. 
"It's difficult to improve your club ifone player is receiving possibly;; to 60 percent of your total budget, and that's what we were faced with," he said. 
Rockets Coach Del Harris said Jones was an excellent rebounder who could play both center and for­ward. 
"If we get an outstanding center with our No. 1 draft pick he can step out and play side-by-side with him at forward," Harris said. 
He also said Jones would help speed up the Rockets offense. 
"The best inside shot in the game is a fast break layup and obviously Caldwell fits into that type ofgame," Harris said. "He's been a central part Of the Philadephia team that has been quite successful in recent years." 

RESTAURANT 
15 REASONS: 
Broiled Seafood Platter Charbroiled Halibut Steak Charbroiled Salmon Shrimp De Johnge Charbroiled Swordfish Walleye Pike Red Snapper Trout Ala Mer Stuffed Flounder New England Scrod Rock Lobster Pan Fried Rainbow Trout Gulf Coast Shrimp Stuffed Shrimp Pan Fried Frog Legs 
5:30 Nightly All Day Sunday 100 Center Complex 
700 L.W.W., Mishawaka 259-9925 


The Observer Thursday, September 16, 1982-page 13 
Baseball summary 


Orioles beat Yanks, stay close 
Orioles 8, Yankees 5 

BALTIMORE (AP) -Cal Ripken Jr. rapped a two-run double to tie the score during Baltimore's six-run sixth inning and scored the go-ahead run on Eddie Murray's double as the red-hot Orioles defeated the New York Yankees 8-5last/ night. 
Don Welchel allowed one hit in 1 2-3 innings ofreliefand was the win­ner in his major-league debut. Sam­my Stewart hurled the final three in.tings to pick up his fifth save. 
New York took a 5-2 lead after 4 1-2 innings on a pair of two-run homers by Roy Smalley and a solo shot by Dave Winfield, all off starter Mike Flanagan. 
Smalley has hit eight of his 20 homers in the last 12 games, and Winfield eight ofhis 34 in the last 13 games. 
Singles by Rich Dauer, Lenn Sakata, and Dan Ford produced the first ofBaltimore's sixth-inning runs. After a passed ball by Rick Cerone, Ripken's double tied the game and finished starter Ron Guidry, 14-7. 
Expos 6, Mets 5 

MONTREAL (AP) -Andre Daw­son belted his 20th home run leading off the bottom of the 11th inning to give the Montreal Expos a 6-5 victory over the New York Mets last night. 
Dawson hammered a 3-1 pitch from loser Doug Sisk, 0-1, who had just entered the game, deep into the left-field bleachers. 
The triumph was the fifth in a row for the Expos, who remained two games behind the St. Louis Car­dinals, the leaders in the East Divi­sion. 
Woodie Fryman, 8-3, the fifth Montreal pitcher, retired the only batter he faced in the 11th to pick up the win. 
The Mets tied the score 5-5 in the eighth on a sacrifice fly by Hubie Brooks that scored Dave Kingman, who had doubled to lead off the in­ning against reliever Jeff Reardon, and advanced to third on George 
Foster's fly out. 
Montreal erased a 4-2 deficit in the seventh after loading the bases with none out against starter Rick Owenby on AI Oliver's leadoff double, a single by Gary Carter and Tim Wallach's walk. 
Jesse Orosco relieved and struck out Warren Cromartie. But Chris Speier, facing Neil Allen, hit a bouncer to third that went under the glove ofBrooks and all three run­ners scored as the ball rolled into left field for a triple. 
Cardinals 8, Phillies 0 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Joaquin Andujar pitched a three-hit shutout as the St. Louis Cardinals beat the Philadelphia Phillies 8-0 last night for the third shutout in the crucial three-game series between the Na­tional League East leaders . 
Andujar boosted his record to 13­10 with his fifth shutout this season. Andujar retired the first 12 batters and struck out the 13th, Bo Diaz, who reached first when the third strike was a wild pitch. 
The Cardinals, who got four runs batted in from George Hendrick, moved I 1/2 games ahead of the runner-up Phillies in the division. 
Sox 8, Angels 3 
CHICAGO (AP) -Vance Law stroked a two-run triple to highlight a five-run fourth inning as the Chicago \\r1ite Sox defeated Califor­nia 8-3 last night and snapped the Angels' five-gam~ winning streak. 
Jerry Koosman, 9-6, allowed two runs and seven hits over the six in­nings he worked before being relieved by Warren Brusstar. 
The White Sox took a 2-0 lead in the first on Carlton Fisk's two-run triple. California got one run back in the fourth when Doug DeCinces doubled and scored on Juan Beni­quez' single. 

Greg· Luzinski led off the fourth with a single and Fisk followed with a double to put runners at second and third. Steve Kemp scored Luzinski with an i11field single and Law followed with his triple for a 5-1 lead, knocking out GeoffZahn, 16-8. 
Indians 7, Red Sox 4 

BOSTON (AP) Andre Thornton drove in three runs with a homer and a single and Larry Mil­bourne and Ron Hassey collected three hits apiece last night, leading the Cleveland Indians to a 7-4 vic­tory over the Boston Red Sox. 
Len Barker and Dan Spillner combined to check the Red Sox on five hits and just one earned run. Barker, 13-11, went the first six in­nings before Spillner came on to earn his 19th save. 
The Indians, winning the rubber 

match oftheir 13-game season series 
with the Red Sox, pounded Boston 
starter, Dennis Eckersley, 12-12, for 
11 hits and six runs in less than five 
innings and raked reliever Tom 
Burgmeier for seven more hits and 
an insurance run. 
Thornton put the Indians in front 

with his 31st home run, a two-run 
shot, in the third. It was his 30th 
homer as a designated hitter, one 
shy of the American League record, 
shared byJim Rice and Rico Carty. 
Thornton drove in his I 12th run 

ofthe year with a single in the sixth. 
Astros 5 , Braves 4 

ATLANTA (AP) -Dickie Thon slammed a three-run double last night to propel the Houston Astr.os to a 5-4 victory over the Atlanta, completing a sweep of their three­game series. 
See BASEBALL,page 11 



~i~t?ciUrill~ SJ>t?£ictl 
-,:)• S:()() -11:()() 



we need outstanding individuals to go to work in our corporate headquarters in NewYorl<. we prefer majOrs in accounting, but will consider other majOrs wrth a minimum of three accounting courses. These positions are in the Financial Planning and Analysis DiVISIOn of W R. Grace &Co. 
The DMsion's job is to assist the Chief Executive Officer and corporate management in analyzing the strategic and operating issues facing Grace's businesses It evaluates the five-year business plans and the performance of all our operating diVISions 1n chemicals. natural resources and consumer products 
As a member of this dMsion. you will review all major capital investment proposals. and under­take special prOJects initiated by corporate management. by the operating divisions or by the department 1tself 
If you're successful. you will spend several years 1n the Financial Planning ar.d Analysis DMsion. after which relocation outside of New Vorl< Ci1y is likely Promotion and increased responsibilities will be principally financial. opening up possible rno.tes into line positions throughout our intemational operations. 
W R Grace is an unusual company, a $61,7 billion multinational which in the last ten years has seen its income grow from $36 million to $361 million. Growth like this relies upon people with an unusual mix of professional abilities and individual characteristics If you like assuming responsibility, and can prOJe it to us; if you are an effective communicato~ and can prOJe it to us. then you may have the Grace Dimension. 
If you have that dimension. the chances ore you 
One step ahead of a 
know it. and we would like you to tell us about it. or 
show us. changing world. Send your resume and we will arrange to visrt with you on campus. Send it to Joseph Fitzgerald. Manager. College Recruitment. W R. Grace & Co 


GRACE
1114 Avenue of the Americas. New York NY 10036. chem1C91s • f"IOiural resources • consumer products 
•' 
The Observer Thursday, September 16, 1982 -page 14 
Northwestern's at it again 

The Notre Dame soccer team defeated Valparaiso, 5-0, yesterday. See Sam Sherrill's story on page 16. (Photo by Melinda Hopkins) 
Wygant Floral CO.I~c. 327lincolnway 232-3354 
··gQowe~rg fptr aQQ occagt9ttg" 
Come in and browse 


Afli&®Ai 
-
1J.J~~IDI1E~1R? 
Comepickupyour DOME At the Dome office 3rd floor LaFortun Wednesday, Sept. iS-Thursday, Sept. 16 3:00-5:00 pm 
1981-82 yearbooks for-those who missed them! 
,. 
As the leaves begin to turn, and the frost settles on the pumpkins, it's time once again for football. That means, naturally, that it's also time for the spirited chase, the blood-and-guts battle for a place in the Bottom Ten. Across the couqtry, from Lewiston, Me., to Overland Park, Kan., and LaHabra, Calif, college football fans have begun the inevitable arguments over who is truly the worst football team in the country. 
For the third year in a row, Bottom Ten voters have awarded the coveted top spot to the Mildcats of Nor­thestern in the opening poll of the season. Thus far, Northwestern has been awesome. Consider the statis· tics: Minus 25 yards rushing against Jllinois, minus 26 ~ards rushing against Indiana, and two losses. The high­hght of last week's game, you ask? Freshman quarter­back Sandy Schwab, still unaccustomed to the hallowed traditions ofNorthwestern football, completed a pass to hi_mself. Unfortunat_ely, w~en he caught the ball, he 
trted to throw tt agam. That s illegal, resulted in 23-yard penalty and was infinitely more Mildcat-ish. 

Most ofthis year's powerhouse teams are in the West. Perhaps nowhere are fans more rabid in their desire for Bottom Ten supremacy than in the WAC-ky con­ference. There, Colorado State developed the strategy that brought them the Bottom Ten title last season. The Rams scheduled 12 games instead of 11, and lost them all -a new NCAA record. ColoradoState's losing string was snapped last week by a surprise team, Wyoming. The Cowboys were supposed to be a dismal10-2. 
But there are other contenders in the West. Colorado is planning a rummage sale ifthey can stay winless. After Chuck Fairbanks sold his soul to the USFL, five first and sec~':d-stringers were expelled. Two for trying to sell mariJUana, two for trying to sell a history exam and one for trying to sell borrowed textbooks. All were unsuc­cessful -which is fitting. 
Texas Tech fans are optimistic, and with good reason. Says Red Raider quarterbackJim Hart: "You'd have to be crazy to say this at the beginning of the season, but I don't think it's that realistic for us to go to a bowl game ~his _re~r." ~oachJerry ~oore is even more encourag· mg: It s gomg to be posstble for us to have a better team this year and not have a better record." Tech was 1-9-1 
in 1981. 

The annual Arlene Francis "Enter and Sign in, Please" ~ward, presented prior to each season, goes this year to ttny M~rgan State. Prior to last week's game against Grambhng at Yankee Stadium, Athletic Director Earl Banks called a press conference to announce that Tom 

Dove Roberts 
Bottom Ten 

Morns was still the footbal coach. But Morns was not there to confirm that, and the players and assistants were unanimous in claiming that there had been no head coach since last winter. For some reason, Morgan State lost 42-13. 
Here are the rankings: 
1) Northwestern (0-2) last win was over Wyoming in 1979 2) Wyoming (0-2) Cowboys did fine imitation of brothers in Dallas 
3) Texas A&M (0-1) it couldn't happen to a higher-paid coach 
4) Texas-El Paso (1-1) we're not impressed with wins over New Mexico State 5) Tulane (0-2) Green Wave was swamped 55· 7 by SMU 
6) State ofOregon (0-3) Ducks and Beavers have been outscored 29-80 
7) Memphis State (0-2) basketball season's just two months away 
8) Texas Tech (0-1) could have trouble losing to Air Force this week 9) Colorado (0-1) another season, and the players are still buffaloed 10) Oklahoma (0-1) did they watch game films or "Coal Miner's Daughter?" 
Also receiving votes: William & Mary Emory & Henry Washington &Jefferson Carnegie-Mellon 
Quote ofthe Week: 
UTEP Coach Bill Yung, before the Miners' 55-0 loss to Washington: "We'll have fun, but we'll be disciplined in our play. And we'll hit people. We want to knock some snot bubbles on people's faces." 
Under Weaver 


Orioles surge back into pennant race 
................................................................................................................................................................. 
i YOUR BSN IS WORTHAN 
~ OFFICER'S COMMISSION



! IN THEARMY. 
~ Your BSN means you're a professional. In the Army, it also ~ means you're an officer. You start as a full,fledged member ofour ~ medical team. Write: Army Nurse Opportunities, ~ P.O. Box 7713, Burbank, CA 91510. 
~ ARMYNURSECORPS. 
-. ~ BE ALLYOU CAM BE. 
BALTIMORE (AP) -The Bal­timore Orioles, tightening the American League East pennant race notch by notch, are on another Sep­tember streak -their 13th red-hot season climax in Manager Earl Weaver's 15 seasons. 
Following a victory over the New York Yankees last night, the Orioles had compiled a 12-3 record since the beginning of the month and narrowed the Milwaukee Brewers' lead to I 1-2 games. 
Weaver, who will retire as the Bal­
timore manager at the end of the 
season, said yesterday the Orioles' 
streak follows simple baseball logic: 
"In September, you"re using the 
people less who are not so hot. You 
settle on the people who are having 
success." 
He singled out for praise sluggers John Lowenstein, Eddie Murray and rookie Cal RipkenJr. 
Still, Weaver added, "When a team 
is winning, everyone out there is 
doing a job. One or two people can't 
do it." 
Weaver indicated he may miss the 
, 
~ ~ 
! 
~ ~ ~ ~ 
i~ 

l..........................., ........................................................................................................, ................................-1 
joys and rigors of the stretch run next year. 
"Pennant races are trying," Weaver said. "But you want to be in it. That's the object of the whole season, why you put the uniform on at the beginning ofspring training." 
Team spirit is surging along with batting averages and the won-loss percentages in this year's version of the patented stretch drive. "Any team that's winning is going to be in a good frame ofmind," Weaver said. 
continuedfrompage 16 
off for the Irish is. senior Mike Johnston ( 5-11, 184). An excellent spring practice earned Johnston the opportunity to replace last year's leading scorer, Harry Oliver, on ex­tra points and short field goals with Von Wyl slated to kick the long ones. 
Johnston, a native of Rochester, 
N.Y., impressed Iri t sh coaches with 
tlve extra points and a 38-yard field 
goal in the 1980 spring game. Von 
Wyl caught the ND coaches eyes 
with seven tleld goals including a 48­
yarder and a 54-yarder his senior 
season at Walsh Jesuit High School 
in Stow, Ohio. 

While handling all kicking duties, 
Von Wyl was 16-of-18 on extra point 
attempts, averaged 42 yards a punt 
with five being downed inside the 
ten yard line and put 70 percent of 
his kickoffs into the end zone. 
"Hal has a stronger leg than Mike," 
says Boulac. "So the game situation 
will determine which one will play." 
Faust has indicated that he will use 
Johnston on all field goals under 25 
yards, and Von Wyl will attempt the 
longer shots. 

As a whole, Boulac is looking to 
improve on last year's 46 percent ac­
(:Uracy on field goals. "Kicking is a 
mental game," says Boulac. "Last 
year Harry mis~ed, some and it af 
fected his performance the rest of 
"They've always played well in September," said team spokesman John Blake. "This is going back to the '60s." 
He explained that since 1968, when Weaver took over as manager, the team only twice has failed to produce a better-than-.500 Septem­ber, while en route to six East Divi­sion championships, four American League pennants and a World Series victory in 19~0. 
...Kickers 
the vear.·· Consistency and con­centration are being stressed with all of the kickers this year. 
For the last two years Harry Oliver has led Notre Dame in scoring. "The team should score enough touch­downs to keep the kickers among the team leaders in scoring," says Boulac. "But a balanced attack will also have its backs and receivers in the running." 
Balance and consistency -key words that the kickers and the team as a whole will strive to live up to as they progress through the season. 

Mikejohnston 

Ihe~======~=========================== 
~~4()l~~==========================T=h=u=rs=d=a=y=,S=e=p=t=em==b=e=r=1=6=,=19=8=2====p=ag=e===15
Doonesbury 



Simon 


The Daily Crossword 
1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 9/16/82 All Rights Reserved 

Chaplin 47 Detergent sleuth 38 Pinza 23 Haggard gal 50 Fate 69 Of yore 39 Tom 
Brian
24 Inns or 51 Scoot 70 Coteries 41 Command to mansions guiltily 71 "Kiss Me-" a crowd 
)eb Cashin 




Campus 
•3:30 
p.m. -Molarity Autograph Party, LaFortune Basement, Sponsored by Buy The Book Press 

•4, 
and 7 p.m. -Film, Heritage of Ireland Film Series, Carroll Hall, Sponsored by SMC History Department, No charge 

•4 
p.m. -Memorial Mass for Bashir Gemayel, Alumni Chapel, Sponsored by ND/SMC American­Lebanon Club 

•4 
p.m. -Field Hockey, NO Women vs. Hope College, Alumni Field 

•5 
p.m. -Volleyball, NO Women vs. Hope Col­lege, ACC 

•6:30 
p.m. -Interview Skills Workshop, Stu­dent Affairs Conference Room, LeMans Hall, SMC 

•7 
p.m. Ombudsman Organizational Meeting, Room 2-D, LaFortune Student Center, Sponsored by Ombudsman Service, New and Old Members Welcome 

•7 
p.m. -Placement Meeting, For finance, management, and marketing graduating , CCE Auditorium, Sponsored by Placement Bureau 

•7, 
and 9:30p.m. -Film, "My Brilliant Career", Engineering Auditorium, S1.00 

•s 
p.m. -Discussion, The State of the Middle East, Dr. Alan Dowty, Notre Dame, 331 O'Shag, (Faculty Lounge) Sponsored by Government Department 

•9 
p.m. -Nazz Show, "Open Stage", The Nazz 



T.V. Tonight 
Thursday, Sept 16 
6p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. 
10:30p.m. 
llp.m. 11:30p.m. 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 The MacNeiVLehrer Repon 
16 M•A•s•H 
22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 
34 Straight Talk 
16 Fame 
22 Magnum PI 
28 joanie Loves Chachi 34 Sneak Previews 
28 NFL Football Minnesota at Buffalo 
34 This Old House 16 Gimme A Break 22 Simon and Simon 
34 Odyssey 
16 Teachers Only 
16 Hill Street Blues 
22 Knots Landing 
34 Watch: When All the Citizens Help 
34 Inside Business Today 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
34 The Dick Cave!! Show 
16 Tonight Show 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 Captioned ABC News 
22 Quincy and McMillan & Wife 
28 ABC News Nightline 
16 Late Night with David Letlerman 
The saga ofthe youngest domer. 
72 Advertising 44 Rep.'sfoeWednesday's Solution lights 48 Catch cold 49 "If music 
DOWN be the food 1 Guess of love,-" 2 Prefix for 51 French 
a modern author 
port 52 Wearaway 3-gobragh 53 Upside­4 Lees downV 5 Quixote's 55 An Astaire 
squire • 58-Khan 6 Film Ray 59 Straight 7 '.Yhiskeys 60 Hackman 8 Bedouin 61 Within: 


BRIAN MOONS 1HE: REGINA GIRLS
9 Preface to pref. "little 62 British gun 

AT THE SMC PANT'/ RAID 

9/16/82 lamb" 63 Brinker 

:~··························································.
WHATDOESTHE : i STUDENT UNION RECORD STORE ! 
:cHEAPER PRICES ... Saw2432percemot!listprices' HAVE FOR ME? : 
. A.
• MOST CURRENT SINGLES-$(,.so (compare at S8.99list). -' •
. ·..... .
' 

:CUT.OUTS ... S2.98to s~.9H : :GREATSELECTION ... Spring,tttn. Fogelberg. Steviei'\icks, : : Cri,topher CruS\. Moody 111ue;, Pat Benatar, : e Journey, and manv more~ • : ALSO ... recorded and blank tapes availahle. : 
: CONVENIENCE~ .. Th~ NDSU R~ord ~tor<· i• located onthe : 
• MaintlooroftaFurtuneandi;open 10-4 e 
•
Gtn &tontc Spectal • •
• PLUS .ordered albums takeonly one week to arnve! • 
• 
ACROSS 1 Rids one­self of 6 "My Name Is-" 10 Take it on 
the lam 14 -firma 15 Vega's con­
stellation 16 Always 17 UFO rider 18 Steep, 

pricewise 19 USSR river 20 Crooner 
of yore 22 Lita ­26 Landon 29 Cussword 32 Make public 33 Sharp 
remark 
35 Politico set in his ways 
40 Biblical 
twin 41 "Mash" site 42 Escape, 
but slowly 43 Spoke 
fortissimo 45 "No" by 28D 46 Ingenuous 
exclamation 
54 American union 56 River to 
the Caspian 
57 Asian land 64 Philippine native 
65 Pulitzer Prize author 
66 One of Tevya's friends 
67 "Thaw, and resolve itself into-" 
68 Fictional 
10 Zionist leader 11 Surplus 
goods 12 Embankment 13 Salvers 21 Cartoonist 
Gardner 25 Lubricate 26 Encourage 27 Flagellate 28 Herr's wife 30 Norsegod 31 Rabbits 34 Vacation 
homes 36 Alter 37 Coward 


Thursday, September 16, 1982 -page 16 

Beat Valpo 


Irish win, but not impressively 
By SAM SHERRILL ball anywhere and everywhere. The the bench and went and sat by the 
Sports Writer back line also had an off game, with fence. At halftime, his comments many unnecessary clearances for could be heard all the way across the corner kicks and throw-ins. field in the bleachers.
The Notre Dame soccer team recorded its second victory of the The general problem was a lack of But after the second half, he season yesterday afternoon by communication, as many of the seemed a bit more satisfied. He was stomping visiting Valparaiso Univer­players seemed not to know where quick to point out, however, that the 
sity, 5-0. But similar to last week's their teammates would be. The Irish Irish have a lot of work to do in the also seemed a step slow, perhaps as a next two days before their first big
win over IUPU-Fort Wayne, the large 
differential was deceptive. result oftheir long road trip. Hunter regional game against Ohio State. was thoroughly disgusted with the
The Irish, fresh off an 0-1-1 road The Irish will host the Buckeyes trip at Rochester, N.Y., last weekend, 
first half; midway through it, he left tomorrow night at 8 at Cartier Field. could manage only one goal in the first half against a team which was originally scheduled to play the Irish junior varsity. But after a disappoint­ing tournament showing in New 

Judge rules NCAA 
York, Hunter apparently decided that the varsity needed the game. Judging from his team's play yester­day, he was certainly right. 

TV contracts illegal 
From the looks of the opposition at the start, it seemed the Irish OKLAHOMA CITY (AP) -A football TV rights. would have a cakewalk. Some federal judge has thrown out the col­
The suit was brought against the

• players wore white shorts, some lege television contracts negotiated 
NCAA by the University of Ok­

wore black, the goalie was only 5-7, by the National Collegiate Athletic 
lahoma and the University of Geor·

and one substitute wore sneakers in­Association, holding that the NCAA 
gia Athletic Association. They

stead ofspikes. had violated antitrust laws in selling 
claimed the NCAA violates the Sher­

But nothing went right for the game rights to television networks. 
man Antitrust Act in controlling the

Irish through most of the first half The ruling by U.S. District Judge 
televising of college football and

Time and again, shots just missed the Juan Burciaga ofAlbuquerque, N.M., 
asked Burciaga to allow them to

posts or hit the crossbar. And the filed in the federal court here yester­
make their own deals despite the

Valpo goalie turned in save after save day, held that the individual colleges NCAA's $263.5 million contract~
in dangerous situations. Mario may sell their football rights to Manta and David Miles both had ex­television and prohibits the NCAA 
with ABC, CBS and Turner. cellent attempts sail just wicte. from negotiating any future televi­
In New York, Charles Stanford,

The Irish finally got on the sion contracts on behalfof its mem­
vice president for legal affairs at

scoreboard in the 37th minute ofthe ber colleges and universities. 
ABC-Sports, said, "Under no cir­

match. Rich Herdegen sent a cross in A spokesman at NCAA 
cumstances are we making any com­

from the right flank to Manta. The headquarters in suburban Kansas 
ment. We must receive read

ball caromed off Manta and a defen­City said the organization's lawyers 
analyze, digest and discuss the deci:

der to junior Ken Harkenrider, who would seek an immediate stay ofthe sion."
blasted it in past the Valpo keeper. 
order through the 1Oth Circuit 
Early in the second half, the Irish Court ofAppeals in Denver.
increased their lead to 2-0 when After holding that "the right toHerdegen headed in a cross from 
telecast college football games is the Irish kickersHarkenrider. Then, Manta got his property of the institutions par­fourth goal of the season in the 57th ticipating in the games, and thatminute, when freshman Tom Daley right may be sold or assigned bycrossed the ball into the middle, 
Johnston, Von Wylshareduties 
those institutions to any entity atwhere Manta volleyed it into the net their discretion," Burciaga orderedwith the side ofhis right foot. 
that: By RICH O'CONNOR on specialty teams, including start­"It's something another teamThe senior forward notched his ers."
"The contracts for the tel.evising Sports Writer must take the time to prepare for.
fifth goal with only 12 minutes One of those starters is junior
of college football for the 1982-Blair had an excellent spring gameremaining after he was dragged
I 1985 seasons between National Col­quarterback Blair Kid, who will last year with a 48 yards-per-punt
down in the penalty box. The en­One of the most potent offensive
I handle the punting chores for the average and he's been playing even
suing penalty kick by Manta hit the legiate Athletic Association and and defensive weapons that a foot­Irish for the ihird straight season. 
better this fall." 

right post, then the left, before final­American BroadcASting Companies, ball team has at its disposal is its kick­
I 
Kiel ( 6-1, 199 pounds) punted a Mike Viracola, a 5-I I. 18 I -pound
ly rolling into the net. Columbia Broadcast System and ing team. When two Notre Dame record 7 3 times last junior, is listed as Kid's backup,Senior Ed Graham closed out the Turner Broadcast system violate ... closely-matched teams meet, it is of­season and brought his career along with highly regarded fresh­
, scoring with only three minutes left, the Sherman Antitrust Act ...and are ten the effectiveness of the specialty average up to 40 yards per punt. man Hal Von Wyl. "Mike and Halteams that decides the outcome.
when a hard shot off the crossbar therefore void and of no effect." have both improved tremendously
"The team is very comfortable
Coach Gerry Faust feels that the

found its wav onto his chest and he He also enjoined the NCAA, "its kicking game requires a full one­with Blair as both our quarterback this fall," says Boulac. "The competi­guided it in. · officers, agents and employees," tion between them made them both
third of the total game preparation, and as our punter," says Iloulac. "He 
Despite the five-goal showing, the from attempting to enforce con­better players...
savs assistant head coach Brian is an exceptional athlete who givesend result was below par consider­tracts already negotiated and from Boulac. "It's as important as both the us an added dimension with his Returning to again handle kicking 
ing the number ofexcellent chances "making any other contract of 
offense and the defense," sav~ ability to run or pass from puntthe Irish had. The midfield once similar kind or nature in the future" Boulac, "so you put your best peopk t<Jrmation. See KICKERS,page 14 ' again looked like rush-hour on the and from attempting to keep mem­Dan Ryan, as both sides kicked the
r ber institution~ from selling their 



Chval returns; can LaGrotta bejar behind? 
EDITOR'S NOTE: It is u•itb great pleasure that u•e u·elcome hack one of the finest jounwlists that bas et•er written for The Observer, Craig Clwal. A 1981 Notre Dame graduate, Cbval currently is in his secondyear at Kent Law School in Chicago, but keeps in close touch with his alma mater. His tbougbt-pror•oking, often controversial column ran in this space every Thursday for two years, and in our effort to increase the quality of our writin?,, we bm•e invited Chval and his weekly column back to the fold. I think you will enjoy reading his opinions. 
Chris Needles 
After a nightmare like 1981-82, you can hardly stand pat. While a ';-6 football season and a 10-I 7 basketball record would he cause for celebration at Northwestern, those kind of results call for something drastic at South Bend. 
For his part, Gerry Faust has left his wingback where it belongs, collecting dust on the shelf. He's changed a few faces on his coaching roster, and learned that promising 7-4 and delivering it is a whole lot better than printing Sugar Bowl tickets in August and using them for bookmarks in December. 
In the other corner ofthe ACC, Digger Phelps has brought in some fresh talent, maybe even enough that he'll get back inJohn Houseman's good graces. With a little luck, and some rapid maturation, Digger won't have to talk about his boys stealing a bid for the NIT. Instead, they'll earn it. 
Meanwhile, people in high places -namely the third floor of the Administration Building and the second level of 

Craig Chvol 
the ACC -have ~.:ommitted Notre Dame's football team to playing the t1rst night game in the hbtory of Notre Dame Stadium. In a way. it's a pity ABC is spending all that money putting in lights. After last fall. the Irish should be pretty good at playing in the dark. 
Hopefully, this year's Notre Dame-Michigan affair will be a little more entertaining than last year's dLhacle. If not, ABC may have no choice but to pull the. plug and run some "Love Boat" reruns. That way, at least the viewers will see a couple ofcompleted passes. 
But The Observer refuses to be outdone. The sports department is sure to turn a few heads, and maybe: stomachs as well. by th'agging one ofits more, ah, controversial colum­nists out of retirement. There will he great wailing and gnashing of teeth, but fearless Chris Needles is prepared to withstand the pressure in his bold attempt to get things turned around under the Golden Dome. 
There have been quite a few casserole-induced belches since the last time this column graced the tables of the campus dining halls. Actually, about the same number of belches since the last time Notre Dame's football team caused a food fight. And Needles is hoping there is some kind ofcorrelation. 
lfonesty implores us to admit that this is hardly a novel idea. In fact, bringing back the good old days has become all the rage in the last several years. Ronald Reagan won a presidential election by promising a return to the good old days. 
In the world ofsports, Chicago Bear owner George Halas has sought to revitalize his comical team by bringing ~like Ditka in as head coach. Ditka was a hard-nosed tight end on the I963 Bear team which won the city's laM NFL title. 
A few years later, Ditka left town after remarking that Halas tossed around nickles like manhole covers. But all has been forgiven in Halas' desperation to revive the Bears· glory days. So far, the only thing Ditka has accomplished ha~ been to show how tough it is to run a Dallas-type offense with Chicago-type players. The Ohsen,er, however, promises bet­ter results. 
We are sorry to report that this is a solo act. As much as we'd like to, we're not bringing back Scott Zettek,John Scul­ly, Tom Gibbons, et al. However, ifJohn Paxson otlers us a big enough percentage of his first NBA contract, we may swing a deal for Kelly, Tracy and Orlando. Give us a call. John. 
Seriously, though, we will try to take the same approach as before, mixing in commentary and features, all with the idea of providing a little food for thought. With the kind of lunches they serve here, that may not he such a bad deal. Our focus will vary, ranging from Notre Dame athletics to the world at large. 
Hopefully, this will help get things hack on the right track. Because if it doesn't, The Observer is negotiating to bring back Frank LaGrotta. 







