
------~~-­
,!Joccer 5/Jecial -page 11 ,
' ' 


y 
·-~· 

Rick Springfield entertains crowd at Notre Dame's A.C.C. See review on page 8. (Photo by Rachael Blount) 
Polish bomb threat 
Terrorists extend deadline 
BERN, Switzerland (AP) -Ter­rorists threatening to blow up the Polish Embassy, eight hostages and themselves have extended by 48 hours their deadline for Poland to end martial-law rule and free all political prisoners, the government reported last night. 
The gunmen occupying the em­bassy released a fourth hostage late Tuesday. He was identified as a 20­year-old Polish student who was in the building when it was taken over by the raiders Monday. Three women were freed earlier. 
A government communique said 
the deadline extension and the stu­
dent's release were obtained after 
"intensive negotiations." 
Playing a key role in the talks is an 
80-year-old Polishborn theologian, 
Professor Joseph M. Bochenski, a 
resident of Switzerland. He spent an 
hour in the embassy Tuesday in the 
first face-to-face negotiations with 
the gunmen. 
The terrorists, who still hold at 
least eight hostages, originally 
issued an ultimatum saying they 
would blow up the building at 10 
a.m. Wednesday, 4 a.m. EDT, if Poland's communist government did not meet their demands. 
One of the women hostages who 
was freed said she saw "four raiders 
armed with long weapons." The in­
vaders claimed they had enough 
dynamite to destroy the building, 
themselves and their hostages. 
At dusk, police surrounding the 
embassy moved their road blocks 
farther away from the compound, 
raising speculation of an armed as­
sault. 
In Warsaw, the Foreign Ministry gave its formal permission for Swiss 
Lunchtime fast raises $15, 000 for Coalition· 
By KATHLEEN DOYLE 
Senior StaffReporter 
Notre Dame students raised more than $15,000 last year by fasting during Wednesday lunches in an at­tempt to increase awareness of and alleviate world hunger. 
The campus-wide fast, designed by the World Hunger Coalition, in­volved 10,753 lunchtime fasts during the spring term and 9,446 during the 'fall term. Food services contributed 75 cents to the Coali­tion for each meal foregone, gerterating $8,064 for the spring semester and S7,084 for the fall. 
These funds were appropriated to 

various hunger relief organizations 
which were -chosen after careful 
research by the World Hunger 
Coalition. 
The greatest amount of inoney 

Finds ND lacking 

HPC colllpares social space 
byJOH~ SPENDLEY 
News Staff 
Pangborn Hall presidentjohn Gal­lagher presented a slide of the second floor ofthe Memorial Library and entitled it " the main lounge on the Notre Dame campus" after showing slides ofstudent centers on other college campuses during last 
night's  Hall  President's  Council  
meeting.  
Gallagher  was  on  the  Student  

Senate committee which inves­tigated various student centers on college campuses last spring. 
All of these centers are located at universities with student popula­tions comparable to that of Notre Dame. 
Norriss Center at Northwestern, Connelly Center at Villanova, and Sarratt Center at Vanderbilt were among those visited. 
All of these student centers dis­played centralized information cen­ters at easy-to-find locations. 
Another feature ofthe centers was well distributed lounge space. 
Gallagher continued by showing another feature ofthese student cen­ters -meeting rooms. Gallagher noted that such rooms could com­fortably accomodate different campus groups, like the HPC or the Student Senate. 
These student centers also have movie theatres, offering com­fortable seating in a pleasant atmos­phere. 
Gallagher emphasized the lack of 
was donated to the People's Food Co-Op, a self-help program and soup kitchen for the poor of the South Bend community. Other agencies which received funds included the Argo Industries and Tribal Founda­tion, Investment in Man, Paroo Peak­hand, Los Ninos, Cautas, Gram Bal Shiskakendur, and Gram Gouray Pratisthan. 
According to Coalition director Ed Colbert, this year's fasting program will begin September 29. "We are trying to get Food Services to increase the amount of money donated for each lunchtime fast," he noted. "It has been 75 cents for a long while now." 
Other plans for the year include a Hunger Week, which would include speakers, films, a retreat, and other events to further explore the issue ef world hunger. 
Explosion darkens campus buildings 

By ANNE MONASTYRSKI 
StaffReporter 
A high voltage tap box exploded near the Ave Maria Press building at 9:00 yesterday morning. The explosion left the greater part ofthe campus without power thoughout the morning. 
The tap box, which was located in a manhole, exploded because ofan accumulation ofmoisture in the box, according toJohn Delee, Notre Dame's Director of Utilities. 
The deteriorated condition ofthe box coupled with the moisture from the nearby sprinkler system caused the explosion. The force of the lightning-type explosion lifted off the manhole lid and sent smoke into the air. 
Damage was limited to the two square foot tap box and feeder cable which power the north campus buildings. 
The utilities department restored power to most of the buildings by 12:30 yesterday afternoon. Stepan Center and the Guard House will remain without power until sometime this afternoon, however, since major repairs to the feeder cable could not begin until early this morning. 
/ 

police to move into the embassy, which has extraterritorial status. It also asked Switzerland to permit Poland to send a "special gro<.~p" here to help end the siege. It was believed the group would include members of an anti-terrorist com­mando squad. 
Ulrich Hubacher, spokesman for Swiss federal police, has refused to rule out a police assault on the em­bassy, but another police official gave only a curt "no comment." 
Hubacher said the terrorists have not backed off their demands, and added, "It's possible they will carry out their threat." 

About 40 policemen were guard­ing the approaches to the embassy, including two dozen special forces members wearing blue fatigues and black berets and armed with sub­machine guns. More officers were believed hiding within the embassy compound. 
See POLES, page 6 

social space available at Notre Dame, a point that was expressed in a Student Senate survey last year. 
After the presentation, Gallagher recommended better communica­tion with University administrators. 
"We have to stop talking about how bad1t is and start addressing the problem," he said. "We have to prove to the administration that we care and desire improvements." 
Gallagher added that student sup­port is crucial if anything is going to be accomplished. 
Following Gallagher's presenta­tion, Special Projects Director Jim Gibbons asked the HPC to help 
promote a basketball game on Sep­tember 18 that will benefit Logan Center. 
A representative from the United Way student drive also asked for support in achieving their s10,000 goal for the September 26-0ctober 3 drive. 


Laurajehle takes time outfrom work on her architecture thesis -the design ofa monastery. (Photo by Ed Carroll) 
tht: indept:ndent ~tudt:nt new~paper ~erving notre Jamt: and ~aint mary·~ WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1982
VOL. XVII, NO. 7 
r -=-·. ~~--~-~-~--_-~----_~--­


NewsBrie.b 
By The Obseroer and The Associated Press 
Former Alabama Gov. George c. Wallace, hoping to avoid a runoffin his quest for a fourth term, went before voters for the first time in six years yesterday as four states held primary elec­tions. Both Arizona and Florida have incumbent Democratic senators and governors seeking re-election, but none faced major opposition in the primaries. In Connecticut, Gov. William O'Neill, a Democrat, and Sen. Lowell Weicker, a Republican, were unchal­lenged for renomination, and their November opponents were selected at party conventions. Voters were choosing three congres­sional candidates and a Democratic nominee for secretary of state. Wallace, 63, stopped short ofpredicting he would win a majority of the vote and thus avoids a St-pt. 28 runoffbetween the top two finis­hers. "It's hard to beat them all at one time," Wallace said at a Labor Day rally. But he added, "I'm going to be governor again." -AP 
Food allergies were dismissed as a cause ofeczema by the American Academy ofPediatrics in 1965, but they do contribute to the skln condition, a Duke University Medical Center study reported yesterday. More than half of 26 children suffering from eczema, a red, dry, itchy rash, were found to be allergic to specific foods, said Dr. Hugh Sampson, a pediatric allergist. How the foods cause eczema remains unknown, Sampson said, but he noted the tendency to have any allergy runs in families. He said eczema affects between 1 percent and 3 percent ofthe population, a range that runs from 2.2 million to 6.6 million people. -AP 
A Chicago ironworkerunable to work for 2 years because of a neck injury returned S20,000 in uncanceled checks that he found while taking a bag of food to a neighbor. Edward 
Japczyk, 63, spotted three duffelbags filled with checks made out to Wieboldt's department store Monday as he crossed a rain-dampened parking lot. Paul Miller, the store's director of security, said, "I'm sure the company would want to extend some gesture ofgratifica­tion." He did not say what that would be. Didjapczyk ever think of trying to cash the checks? "No way," he said. "We could use a couple ofbucks, but money isn't everything."-AP 
One inmate was killedand two others -one of them the dead man's brother -were injured in stabbing attacks at California's Folsom prison, authorities reported. The Labor Day at­tacks marked the eighth in eight days at the prison, bringing the 1982 total for violent incidents to 46. There were 34 attacks at Fol­som during all of 1981, and 20 during 1980. Officials said the in­crease in violence at the 2,700-inmate facility has been caused in part by increased racial tensions and an influx of younger, more violent inmates. -AP 
Hundreds of supporters of the Palestinian 
cause marched through Khartoum, Sudan to the U.S. Embassy, where 
they burned an American flag and chanted anti-American slogans to 
protest U.S. support of Israel. The group gave embassy officials a 
letter to President Reagan urging U.S. recognition of the Palestine 
Liberation Organization. The demonstrators also marched to the 
presidential palace, where they gave officials a document urging 
diplomatic support for an independent Palestinian state. Witnesses 
said the protest Monday included people of a variety of ages and 
walks oflife, but it was not known if any ofthe 500 PLO guerrias who 
came here from Beirut last month took part. The guerrillas, who left 
Lebanon under a U.S.-negotiated plan to end the Israeli siege of 
Beirut, have been settled in a camp about 100 miles north of Khar­
toum. -AP 

Movie star Sophia Loren,who spent 17 days in 
May in an Italian jail for tax evasion, has described her sentence as a "hellish and shocking experience." She denied press reports that claimed she was accorded special treatment at the women's prison at Caserta near her home town of Naples. The 47-year-old actress talked about her time in prison in an interview in Woman's Own, a British weekly women's magazine published Tuesday. "In my case, the laws on detention were applied with great vigor. No privileges -on the contrary, absolute rigidity in the interpretation ofprison 
regulations," she said. -AP 

Members of an American aid group called Operation California, including film starJulie Andrews, have arrived in the Cambodian capital of Phnom Penh, the Cambodian news agency SPK has reported. The private group, led by Richard Walden, left Bangkok last Thursday to visit orphanages, schools and hospitals in southern Vietnam and Cambodia. SPK said the group arrived in Phnom Penh Monday night from Vietnam. Mrs. andrews and her husband, director Blake Edwards, have previous connections with Vietnam and Cambodia. Mrs. Andrews adopted two Vietnamese or­phans in 1975, and in 1979 the couple chartered an aircraft for Operation California to fly in medical supplies during the Cam­bodian emergency. -AP 
Becoming partly sunnytoday and mild. High in low 70s. Fair tonight night. Low in mid 50s. Tomorrow, mostly sun­ny and warmer. High around 80. -AP 
W >dnesday, September 8, 1982 -page 2 
Corby Hall survives recession well 

The 28 religious who live at Corby Hall have survived comfortably well while our country has been subjected to 20 months of tax breaks, tax reform and econoii).ic insecurity. 
Comfortable is the most appropriate way to describe Corby Hall, the main residence at Notre Dame for mem bers ofthe Holy Cross community. 
Six concrete stairs lead to the main entrance of the 
89-year-old structure, which boasts almost 50 rooms. 
The steps support a wide gray, wooden porch. Each half of the porch encases three chairs and two hanging plants. 
Rumours of extravagant living have haunted Corby for some time. Tales include descriptions of a "Hesburgh penthouse", crystal chandeliers in priests' rooms, and a hidden jacuzzi. 
There were no hints of high living on lower floors of 
Corby. 

The pale yellow entrance hall seems in a condition 
similar to most student dorms. Gray carpeting leads to a 
hallway with parlors and guest rooms on one side; 
private rooms and a chapel on the other. 
The door to one priest's room was open. Inside, a desk covered with papers and documents filled one corner. File folders were scattered across the floor. A small bed, covered by a plain spread, was positioned against one wall. The area was the size ofa single room at Morrissey, ifnot smaller. 
Corby has few luxuries. There is no central air con­ditioning -only window fans in the television room on the first floor. Furniture looks attractive, but well­worn. 
Ninety-six religious are registered to take meals and use the fleet of 15 cars at Corby Hall. The Corby budget is financed through various sources, and 
provides only basic living and travel necessities. 

It took Father Leonard Banas his first year as Corby Hall Superior to find out just what adjustments he could make in the budget to ease the impact ofthe recession. Banas would not reveal the amount of Corby's annual budget. 
Banas finds the economic situation similar to the 
Depression, but "not as bad." Although he admits that 
he cannot speak for all ofthe priests registered at Corby 
Hall, Banas said there have been administrative read­
justments during the past two years. 
Corby Hall secretary Bert Kovacsics maintains that Corby Hall religious lead a "very conservative" lifestyle, although Banas gave serious reevaluation to several ex­penditures. 
The kitchen operation was reorganized completely. 
Banas said positions were cut, and a "very hard look" 
taken at quality offood and how it was prepared. 
Corby managed to keep costs from rising in the 
budget. 

Holy Cross religious have also been forced to look at travel expenses. Means oftravel have been reevaluated, and priests have cut back on trips. 

Clothing has had to last longer for Corby religious. "A number of people have taken a hard look at items of clothing and cut back," Banas said. "They make items last longer." 
Banas does not tolerate increases in the budget to the rate of inflation. He said supplies such as toilet articles are now bought wholesale. 
There is a strict accountability for cost at Corby now, and a significant difference in the amount consumed. 
Banas said he has also given "many exertations" on automobile use. Banas avoids using a vehicle whenever he can, unless it is absolutely necessary. 
New cars are purchased each year, but Banas con­siders this a necessity. "Someone watches the market carefully," Banas said. "We only buy American cars. The profit margin for the dealers is small." 
Corby residents use small economy cars now. When Banas came, he eliminated big cars. Chevrolet and Chrysler are the · most popular automobiles Corby residents use. 
Banas hopes the economic outlook will brighten soon. He works with parishes in Michigan, where he says people lost their jobs because they relied on the automotive in­
dustry. Banas patterns his lifestyle after they way these people live. 
The way people in parishes live is a constant im­perative for Banas. He does not use his experiences at Notre Dame as much because he thinks students here are from wealthier families. 
The poor offer a constant dictate for Corby priests. Banas said they constantly ask themselves "do I need this....can I do without it?" 
Corby Hall has gone without maintenance repairs that Banas considers long overdue. The roof is losing tiles, and the window frames need refinishing. But they're surviving...comfortably well. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not necessarily represent the views ofThe Observeror its editorial board. 

~--------------~------------~ 
t"*********************************** 
THE: TYPICAL NA\JV MAN'S LOCKE:R. 
We know home's a 
hard place to leave. But ff you think it looks good. JUSt wait rill you have been around ... after you've skied on the Alps. fished on New Zealand. hiked in Spain. and gone sw1mming 1n the Aegean .~ OS a Navy off1cer. We really aren't kiddong when we soy. ""loon the Navy and 
see the world:· 
• 

NROTC SCHOLARSHIPS AND COLLEGE PROGRAM BENEFITS WORTH UP TO $30.000 
ARE AVAILABLE TO QUALIFIED NOTRE DAME. SAINT MARY'S, I USB. HOLYCROSS. 
AND BETHEL COLLEGE ~TUDENTS 
CONTACT NROTC. NOTRE DAME~ 239~64420R THE SOUTH BEND NAVY RKRUITING 
OFFICE-233-3911 for details. 
***********************************~ 


Design Editor ...................... Maura Murphy Design Assistant..................... Kay Holland Layout Staff. ........................................... Kash Mitch Boh Typesetters .................... Bruce and Friends AI Novas News Editor ........................... Dave Sarphie Copy Editor.... ................Jeff H. Features Layout ..................)oe Mu•umeci Sports Copy Editor .............'Skip Desjardin Typist ....................................... Mary Torchia Ad Design ............................. Marilyn Larkin Photographer ............................... Ed Carroll Guest Appearances ........................ helmets Chris N. 
The Observer (USPS 598 9201 os published Monday through Froday and on home football Saturdays except durong exam and vacation peroods The Observer os publoshed by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col~ lege Subscroptoons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wrot1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 No!re Dame tnd1ana 46556 
The Observer os a member of The Associated Press All reproductoon roghts are reserved 
Second class postage paod at Notre Dame Indoana 46556 
~--------~~-­
The Observer Wednesday, September 8, 1982-page 3 
Individual counselirig 

SMC series targets sexuality 
By SUSAN O'HARA September 14 in Carroll Hall (SMC) Paator of Hilltop Lutheran Church News Staff at 6:00p.m.. will examine the detmition of The following week Dr. C. Wil­sexuality and aid students in under­
The Counseling and Career liam Tageson, associate professor of standing their sexual feelings. Development Center, Health Psychology at Notre Dame, will Services, and Campus Ministry of answer questions including "Why The fourth presentation will ex­
Saint Mary's will be holding a series do opposites attract?" and "What plore relationships, intimacy, and of presentations aimed at making can you learn about yourself from marriage. The possibilty of future students more aware of their sexual people you are attracted to?" presentations will be discussed also. responsibilities. In the third presentation, Mary No date or speaker has been an­
Mary Theis, assistant director of Theis and Rev. Fred Pfotenhauer, nounced. Counseling and Career Develop­ment at Saint Mary's hopes the series, entitled "RelationshiP and Sexuality," will magnify the neces­
World Bank publishes 
sity for students to make responsible decisions regarding their sexual ac· tivity. She added that because of the Catholic community at Notre 

image renewal book 
Dame/Saint Mary's, many students are reluctant to confide in anyone if TORONTO(AP)-At acostof$5 arm of the World Bank, lends to the they have questions or concerns million, beginning in 1970, the world's poorest countries, offering about sex. World Bank tried to help Madagas­50-year loans at zero interest, with 
Theis noted that individual car with an irrigation project to service charges of less than 1 per· counseling is also available and all double rice production in paddy cent per year. records are confidential and apart fields around Lake Alaotra. Munir P. Benjenk of Turkey, the 
from school records. The failure was nearly complete. World Bank's vice president for ex­
Tom Reid, director of Campus There was a small increase in rice ternal affairs, discussed the agency's Ministry at Saint Mary's, will kickoff supplies, farm income scarcely problems with reporters in Toronto the series by discussing Christian grew, money flowed away from the this week for the bank's annual values, sexuality and decision poorest in the area, the plan was meeting with the International making. Mary Theis will then cover resented by the local inhabitants and Monetary Fund. 
the psychological aspects of sexual dependence on government in­
relationships. creased. "Very often IDA has been talked 
In addition, Dr. Norman Forrest, In Dakar, Senegal, an $8 million about as if it were a glorified welfare the gynecologist for Notre Dame World Bank urban housing project program," Benjenk said. ''I think the and Saint Mary's, will discuss the approved in 1971 had managed comparison with welfare is 
medical problems related to the seven years later to build 48 homes, overdone and inaccurate." 
reproductive system. He will also seven ofwhich were occupied. He said the agency's aim was to 

Saint Mary's students sign upfor various activities at last night's speak about some common sexually Dakar banks were reluctant to encourage investment and produc­SMC Activities Night, held at the Angela Athletic Night. (Photo by transmitted diseases, normal sexual lend money to the people for whom tion -not consumption -and that Ed Carroll) functioning, and family planning. the houses were intended. Then the agency's policy "has been to 
The presentation will be Tuesday four years ago a small revolving fund wean countries away from it as soon was established. Partly as a result: as possible." more than 4,500 houses are now un­
Two programs 
Since the agency began lending,der construction, with a resident 27 nations have "graduated" bypopulation of 20,000 and rapidly developing their economies to thegrowing. 

point that they can afford more con­


Sutntnerprogratns offer Europe 
These and other tales of woe and ventional borrowing terms, either some of subsequent achievement
By FRANCES NOLAN directed the two summer programs, from the World Bank or private
Mary's student who participated in 
are recounted in a glossy 140-page
News Staff which encompassed several sources.
the programs this summer. 
publication issued as part of an un­
European countries. The development agency gets its 
usual attempt by the bank to
Over 90 Saint Mary's and Notre The first program took students to "I took International Business and money from contributions by the 
rehabilitate the image of its Interna­
Dame students toured Europe this London and included travel in richer countries, plus a slice of the
was able to see and understand how 
tional Development Agency.
summer as part of two programs Ireland. Scotland, and France~ The various firms worked in the profits of the World Bank's other 
Spending by IDA had to be cut
sponsored by Saint Mary's College. second program allowed students a countries we visited. could arm, the International Bank for 
back by 35 percef't in 1982 because
Dr. Anthony Black. Associate two week stay in Rome in addition compare our organizations with Reconstruction and Development.
of problems stemming from the
Professor of History at Saint Mary's, to travel in France, Germany, Swit· theirs," commented Flaherty. The bank operat t es by borrowing
refusal of the U.S. Congress to ap­
zerland, and Italy. from commercial banks, then propriate funds promised three
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame stu· relending at a slight premium ro 
years ago by then-President Jimmy
The continuing programs are dents are allowed to transfer up to countries which can afford to pay
Bendix Corp. 
Carter. 
open to any Notre Dame or Saint six credits from one program or nine going rates of interest, but are not 
The agency, formed in 1960 as an considered creditworthy.
Mary's student, and many students credits from the two programs from other universities have par­combined.
puts off· 
ticipated in recent programs. Anyone interested in additional A variety ofcourses are offered in information about these programs
mergerplan the program. "They (the courses) should contact Dr. Anthony Black at are geered -toward your ex­284-4460. An informational meeting 
{)I? E N AIIJUIIlrll{)N S !! 
SOUTHFIELD, Mich. (AP) perience," said Ann Flaherty, a Saint will be held later in the semester. 
Rejecting a S I. 5 billion counter­offer by the Martin Marietta Cor­poration, Bendix Corp. Chairman William Agee vowed that the South­field, Mich.-based firm will continue its effort to merge with the Maryland company. 
"We are determined to push our transaction through to completion," Agee said in a statement released Tuesday in Detroit. 
Members of the board who were present at Tuesday's meeting in New York also unanimously recom· mended that shareholders ofBendix reject the Martin Marietta counter­offer made Monday, Agee said. 
The merger action began last Wednesday when Bendix, a supplier for the aerospace, electronic and automobile industries, announced it~ intention to merge with Martin !\tarietta of Bethesda, \1d. 
\1artin !\1arietta said it!> board had determmed that the Ht·ndix offer was inadequate. 
But the Bendix board said Tues­day the pricing structure of the Mar­tin !\larietta propo!->al b "front -end loaded," and "blatantly dis· cnminatory and unfair" because the value of the ~ecuritie~ in the second stage of the offer b substantially lower than the cash price ollered in the first stage. 
Genetal meeting fot people intetested in 


THE OBSERVER 
7:30pm 
LaFottune Little Theatte 

1 

-ADVANCED 8ALLET STUDENTS ONLY * -WELCOME A'I' ANY LEVEL OF EXPP.RIENCE * CONSISTS OF 30 MINUTE aA.RRE AND 45 MINUTE * 
FLOOR -8RING POINTE SLIPPERS IF PCISSI8LE I 
N()fli(E ()lj!fJ[IS/UI\ff ,.-tWRf"\ 


lrlriiC!lllrRE 
The Observer Wednesday, September 8, 1982-page 4 


Arab secret suinn1it seeks peace options 
FEZ, Morocco (AP) -Arab by many Arab moderates but leaders conferred in strict secrecy rejected by the Israeli Cabinet and yesterday at a summit meeting con­the most militant Arab hard-liners. It vened to define a possible Arab was virtually certain to overshadow peace strategy in the Middle East for the peace plans put forward by Saudi the first dme since the creation of Arabia and Tunisia, though itwas not the state ofIsrael. formally listed on the summit 
The summit was formally opened agenda. Monday by the host and chairman, The Saudi plan would require Is­Morocco's King Hassan II, with a rael to evacuate all Arab terr!•orv oc­warning to the leaders to allow no ~upied since the )'?67 war, premature information leaks out of mcludmg the Golan Heights and the 
the closely guarded conference cen­Arab sector of Jerusalem. The ter. Tunisian plan would reduce Israel to 
Official Moroccan sources said three disconnected enclaves en­the kings, emirs and presidents visaged by the United Nations in remained locked in intensive debate 1947. The Israeli state wa:; founded until after 3 a.m. yesterday morning in 1948. and resumed their talks seven hours Arab east jerusalem-containing 
later. the AI Aqsa mosque, the third holiest 
The sources gave no indication of shrine oflslam -plays a crucial role the subjects discussed, but pointed in all three plans. The entire city is to out that the Israeli invasion of be internationalized under the Lebanon and its aftermath took top Tunisian plan. The Arab sector
Bill Varner clowns around with some of his byEd Carroll) 
place on the published summit would simply revert to a Palestinian
friends on the quad yesterday afternoon. (Photo 
agenda. state under the Saudi plan. Lebanon has asked the summit to Under a provision of the Reagan demand that all foreign forces -plan that particularly infuriated the
Chrysler opposition firm 
"Israeli, Palestinian and Syrian" -Israelis, the Arab inhabitants of east should evacuate all Lebanese ter­Jerusalem would be allowed to vote ritory without delay. 
in elections for the Palestinian It was clear, however, that the "domestic authority."

UA W disputes new contracts 
most important discussions will cen­East Jerusalem and all the West ter on two Arab peace plans that Bank were part ofJordan until theWARREN, Mich. (AP) -With a presentation for today but would "We are never willing to com­envision a general Arab recognition 1967 war. Jordan's King Husseincontract due to expire in a week, give no details. He blamed Chrysler promise when we first begin the oflsrael, and a third plan put forward subsequently relinquished all Jor­bargainers for the United Auto for the slow pace of talks, saying the fight." 
by President Reagan proposing crea­danian claims to the area in Javor ofWorkers union and Chrysler Corp. company has strayed from tradition General Dynamics spokesman tion of an autonomous Palestinian the Palestine Liberation Organiza­
have agreed on only "one-half of 1 by "placing demands on the union. Ray Forbes said the company would "domestic authority" in association tion and the Palestinian state whichpercent" of the issues under discus­Normally, it's the union placing have no comment on its talks with withJordan. the PLO wants to set up in the Westsion, a UAW official said Tuesday. demands.on the corporation." 
the UAW. The Reagan plan was welcomed Bank.
"We've been arguing a lot," Marc Stepp, UAW vice president in charge "Chrysler will have to recognize of the union's Chrysler department, the tradition and begin to withdraw 
Medal of-Freedom
told a news conference. some ofthe demands that have been 
He said the two sides will not presented to us," he added. begin discussing economic issues ­the final phase of contract talks -Stepp also leads the UAW in 
Habib earns civilian honor 
before Thursday, when UAW presi­negotiations with General Dynamics dent Douglas A. Fraser will join the Corp. of St. Louis, which bought WASHINGTON (AP)-President announced last week. aboard Air Force One from Califor­negotiations. Chrysler's defense unit earlier this Reagan, ending a 1 7 -day California Despite Israel's rejection of the nia to Washington, so she could 
Stepp added, however, that he still year. Yesterday, the two sides began vacation, returned to the White plan and its defiance of Reagan's call stand at her husband's side during hopes to reach an agreemem before work on economic proposals, he House late yesterday to present the for a freeze on new Jewish settle­the White House ceremony. the current contract -which said. I nation's highest civilian award to ments in the occupied West Bank 
covers 43,200 U.S. autoworkers, ambassador Philip C. Habib for and Gaza strip, the administration With the end ofhis latest vacation, plus another 40,000 on indefinite "We are close to 90 percent in "truly heroic work" toward peace in Reagan has spent all or part of 77 agreement on non-economic issues" the Middle East. days of his presidency at his moun­
layoff-expires next Tuesday. · 1 
"In the Big Three, traditionally at General Dynamics, Stepp said at Habib, a 62-year-old diplomat Thispeaceful step taintop ranch outside Santa Barbara, agreements have been reached in the news conference. Some of the who has suffered two heart attacks including 3 7 days this year. He plans items which have been resolved are to return to the ranch again in Oc­
the final hours" before a contract and has undergone multiple bypass couldneverhave been 
expires, he said. Chrysler spokes­seniority, grievance procedures, surgery, spent nearly three months tober and over the Thanksgiving and man Charles Scales said the com­representation and transfers, he in the Mideast negotiating the settle­taken without the Christmas holidays. pany would have no comment on ment of the war in Lebanon and the
added. While trying to build momentum
evacuation of Palestinian guerrillas The UAW wants the 5,200 from Beirut. behind his Mideast peace plan, the state ofthe talks. truly heroicwork of 
Bargaining beganJuly 20, with the 
workers it represents at General "This peaceful step could never Reagan is being a showdown withnation's No. 3 automaker demand­Dynamics to get a pay raise, profit­have been taken without the good Ambassador Habib ' Congress this week over his veto ofaing that workers share health-care sharing, free legal services, cost-of­offices ofthe United States and espe­SI4.2 billion supplemental ap­costs through co-payments and living allowance resumed, paid cially the truly heroic work ofagreat held out hope that Israel eventually propriations bill which he claimed
deductibles. The union has rejected the proposal and demanded that 
personal holidays reinstated and American diplomat, Ambassador would soften its position. busted his budget. Chrysler boost workers' wages. 
guaranteed income for high­Philip Habib," Reagan said last week. Deputy White House press seniority workers who are laid off, secretary Larry Speakes said the White House officials privately
The average hourly wage for 

Chrysler workers is now 19.07. Stepp said. Reagan's presentation of the United States hopes that "as time predict the president's veto will be a sustained in Congress. Speakes said 
Chrysler, which lost 13.27 billion Medal of Freedom to Habib and goes by, the lure of peace will be from 1979 to 1981, made a 1256.8 The contract would be for three round of meetings between the two more attractive." the administration has been gaining 
million profit in the first half of this years, he added. today are intended to focus atten­At Reagan's invitation, Habib's ground in the battle and is year. "Now the fight really comes be­tion on the Middle East peace in­wife accompanied the president and "cautiously optimistic" the presi­Stepp said the company planned a cause it comes to money," he said. itiative that the president his party on the cross-country flight dent will prevail. 

~ 
The Observer Wednesday, September 8, 1982 -page 5 
Nutrition professor victim 
SusP-ectscaughtinmurder case 
NEW YORK (AP) Police captured one man after a car chase and searched for two others yester­day in the ritual murder of a Florida nutrition professor. Authorities said 
they had issued "numerous"  war­ 
rants  and  considered  the  case  
"solved."  

A man tentatively identified as Gary McNichol, 21, was arrested with the stolen car and credit cards ofProfessor Howard Appledorf, who was murdered over the weekend in his condominium near the Univer­sityofFlorida campus at Gainesville. 
Police were searching for two companions with whom McNichol was drinking at an East Side bar fre­quented by homosexuals. Police said one ofthe men had a record as a prostitute and a transvestite, and speculated the men might be dis­guised as women. 
The men left the bar after McNic­hol jumped in the car and led police cars on a chase through Manhattan at speeds up to 100 mph. 
McNichol is believed to be one of three men Florida authorities have 





Indiana rep dies in D.C. 

WASHINGTON )AP) Rep. Adam Benjamin Jr., a thirdterm Democrat who represented the steel town of Gary, Ind., was found dead in his Capitol Hill apartment Tuesday. He was 47 years old. 
Benjamin's body was found by an aide, Peter Visclosky, about 
9:10 a.m. EDT after the congress­man missed a morning appoint­ment. Benjamin's one-room efficiency apartment does not have a telephone, but is located 
only a half-block from his con­gressional office building. 
The body was taken to the Dis­trict of Columbia Medical Examiner's Office, where an autopsy was performed Tuesday afternoon. 
Deputy Medical Examiner Dr. Douglas Dixon said afterwards that he found no evidence offoul t play, but could not certify the cause of death until toxicology studies were completed Wednes­day. 
"I have no suspicion that drugs were involved, but the examina­tion would not be complete without such studies," he said. In response to questions, he·said he found evidence of heart disease, but that death coud not be at­tributed to that disease until all tests were completed. • been seeking in the slaying, accord­ing to Detective Capt. james Power. The three, whom Florida authorities declined to name, were involved in an attempt two weeks ago to cash a S900 check belonging to Appledorf. 
In Gainesville, police said that with the arrest in New York and the tentative identification of other suspects, they c.onsidered the mur­der solved. 
"1 can tell you the case is solved. We know who committed the homicide act," said Gainesville police Capt. Richard B. Ward. 
Ward  would  not  identify  the  
suspects  or  say  how  many  there  
were.  

"There are other individuals in­volved and there are numerous homicide warrants issued," Ward said. 
Gainesville police investigators were sent here to question and positively identify the man held there, Ward said. Officers also were sent to Lumberton, N.C., and police 
here have alerted officials in Boston and in Connecticut about the other wanted men, according to the police captain. 
ToUJn survives atomicshadoUJ since 1911 
By MARCIA DUNN 
AssociatedPress 

Long before the atomic bomb, 
long before nuclear power plants, 
residents of this western Pennsylva­
nia community lived with wastes 
buried by nuclear pioneers. 

Uranium processing plants, which once supplied scientist Marie Curie with radium and later helped toward building the Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombs, produced more than 200,000 tons of radioactive waste since 1911. The wastes now lie beneath an industrial park near this quiet, residential suburb, about 20 miles southwest ofPittsburgh. 
Saying they fear for their health, residents ofCanonsburg and nearby Strabane long have urged the federal government to speed up plans for cleaning up the site. 
But necessary government stan­dards, which were to be in place by 1979, are almost three years late. 
"When you didn't know, you weren't afraid. Now when you know, you're afraid~ It's better not knowing," said Sophie Winseck, who unwittingly used an old vat from the processing plant to catch rainwater in her backyard. 
Scientists, however, report find­ing only slightly higher rates of ill­ness among those living near the radioactive site. 
Standard Chemical Co. extracted 
.·••··•··········•·•······•·····••······•·•····•···•··•·············

. 



FINANCE CLUB'J 
Otgani.zational meeting 
Wed., Sept. 8 7pm 
~~122 Hnyes-Henly 


Ed Fishet 277-1759 Kathy Rndllng 283-1810 
. . 
·············~·········~··········································· 
Ward said police had received in­formation Monday which pointed to the North Carolina city as a stopover for some ofthe suspects. 
He refused to confirm whether more than three individuals were in­volved, but said several times that "numeroussealed murder warrants" have been issued by a judge here. 
State attorney Eugene Whitworth said that if the New York suspect waived extradition he could be returned to Florida "tomorrow or the next day. If not, it could be 30 to 60days." 
The body of Appledorf, a popular 
professor of nutrition and a well­
known defender of the nutritional 
value of so-called "junk food," was found suffocated Sunday. His body was tied and lay face up on a couch. His head was stuffed into a canvas bag of ice and swathed with sheets and pillows. 
Three plates contained the remains of submarine sandwiches. An uneaten sandwich sat on a fourth plate. The apartment was strewn with trash, and the words "murder" and "redrum" spelled backward were written on the walls. 

radium from ore; at the site in 191 L 
Later, the site was taken over by 
Vitro Corp. of America, which 
processed uranium and radium, 
burying its waste there. The Atomic Energy Commission later used the property for storage. 
The industrial park is among 24 sites identified under the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978 as requiring prompt cleanup. 
The U.S. Department of Energy found "higher-than-acceptable" 
:WEDNESDAv-. 


·..-=ocus 
radioactive em1ss1ons from radom 
gas and radium at the site in 1977. 
Up to a third ofa mile from the site, 
the emissions range from two to 
three times the normal background 
levels. Within that area, the risk of 
lung cancer would be about 25 per­cent higher, according to Depart­ment ofEnergy consultants. 
The Canonsburg site is the only one east ofthe Mississippi River and the only one surrounded by resi­dents about 8,000 of Canonsburg's 11,000 residents live within one mile ofthe facility. 
Decontamination ofthe industrial 
park and nearly 100 adjacent private properties has been stalled while government agencies finish review­ing Environmental Protection Agency standards for the cleanup. 
Angered by the delay, about 100 residents have filed classaction law­suits against the state and federal governments, six government agencies and seven corporations. 
The residents claim their health has been endangered and their property values lowered because of radioactive contamiation. "My hus­band has leukemia, and then they tell me not to worry. I worry every day," said Isabella Spinosa, who lives about 500 feet from the industrial park. 
University of Pittsburgh resear­
chers assured residents at a town 
meeting last month that radiation 
levels are not alarming. 
"The radioactive effects -if they are there -are very, very slight....l assure you this is not a serious problem that is out of control," Dr. Edward Radford said following a two-year study funded by the EPA. 
"Frankly, I would live there," said Dr. Evelyn Talbott, a native of Strabane. 
Both researchers said they found slightly higher rates ofillness among adults living within 600 yards of the industrial park as compared to those living in Muse, a community four miles away. 
The study found slightly higher rates ofthyroid abnormalities. In ad­dition, the incidence of ulcers in men and self-reported nervous and emotional disorders in women also were slightly higher, according to the study. But because only 60 per­cent of Canonsburg residents eligible for the study participated, 
the researchers said they could not conclude that the illnesses were caused by exposure to low-level na­tion. 
Both scientists said their as­surances do not apply to the 18-acre site where processing occurred Five businesses remain at the site. 
A study released earlier in the summer by Pitt doctoral student Stephan Lanes, meanwhile, con­cluded that people living near the in­dustrial park were not sigficantly 
harmed by expo radioactive element radon. 
Lanes' study indicated that lung cancer rates were not higher than elsewhere in Washington County and that lung cancer cases were not clustered around the industrial park. 
Despite such positive eports, city officials in Canonsburg say the publicity has hun business and town pride. Family reunions have been held elsewhere and real estate sales are down, says Mayor Jack Passante. 
"It's put a stigma on the area that I think is going to last for quite some time," Passante said. 

Welcome Baptist Students! 
BAPTIST STUDEliT 
UlliOll 

Bible Study·fellowship.~ run 

JOIR US! 
* Monday, Sep~ember 18, 1981 ~ime: 7pm
* 
A' 'he Bulla Shed 

·1 
l 1 
; I 
' 
i 
., 



F------------­
.. 
The Observer Wednesday, September 8, 1982-page 6 
'. 
' 
I. 
~ .... 
~ . 
.­
I. 
• ~ . 
I. 
I:
I 
t )
l' I 
: 

I • 
I I· 
: ~ \ 
! . 


jim Duffey, a 5th-yearArchitecturestudentand students in the architecture ,Library. (Photo by Ed librarian from Massachusetts, keeps an eye on Carroll) 
BALTIMORE ( AP) -Seventeen 
years after a mysterious affliction 
crippled his right hand, pianist Leon 
Fleisher is rehearsing for a dramatic, 
two-handed return to the concert 
performing that won him world 
renown. 
Using both hands to play in public for the first time since 1965, he will play unaccompanied and with the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra at the Sept. 16 opening of Baltimore's $22 million symphony hall, before thousands of people who paid at 
least S250 each. 
"I'm looking forward to it with great pleasure," he said in a telephone interview. "It's going to be an exciting evening." 
Fleisher, 54, spent years searching for a cure, even trying shock treat­ment and hypnosis. He became depressed and acted like an "ogre" to people around him. He learned piano works for the left hand and took up conducting, but he didn't give up hope. 
In 1977, explaining that he didn',t 
want to become a full-time specialist 
in works for the left hand, Fleisher 
said: "I'm quite cenain that soon~r 
or later f'm eoing to be playing with 


Give yourself credit at Hudson's 
If you're a junior, senior, grad student or faculty member. we invite you to open a charge account at Hudson's. You'll find fashions and accessories for yourself and your home. You can purchase them when you need them, and take advantage of prices that are right. You'll be establishing a credit rating, and you won't have to carry a lot of cash or write a lot of checks. You'll get one bill, one record for your budget. You can us,e your charge card for identification. You can mail or phone order from newspaper ads. You're the first to know about special sales. It's fast, convenient and smart. 
Just fill in this application and personally bring it to the Customer Service Area at Hudson's University Park. We'll process it while you wait. 

r-----------------------------------------------­
hudson·s Charge Account Application 
NAME ------------------------------PHONEI Pl£ASE "'IHT FIRST W&OOU INITIAL LAST 
LOCAL ADDRESS 

------------------------------SocoalSecurlly • ---------­
CIT'(.__________________STATt-____________zrP Are you a Uniled Slales cotozen? :::J Yes :J No If NO, &xpla.n •mmtgralton slatus 

UNNERSin-----------------~~-------M~OR ________________ CITY STATE 
HOME ADDRESS ------------ZIP_____________PHONE I 

AFTER GRADUATION. C WORK l: GRADUATE SCHOOL • CLASS STATUS Jr n \ Sr ~J Grad 0 Faculty 0 
EMPLOYER ------------------HOWLONG ____POSITION ________ EMPLOYMENT ADDRESS _______________________________________________________________ 
BANKAT___________________BRANCH __________________ 

CheckonQ 0  S.vonQI 0  Loan 0  
BANKAT____________________________BRANCH _________________  Checkong ::J  S.vonQI 0  L011n 0  
Cre(hl Card References  Name Account Camed In  

,____________________________________________________ 
SPOUSE'S NAME --------------OCCUPATION_______________--i SPOUSE'S EMPLOYER LENGTH OF EMPLOYMENT 

Pianist prepares dramatic collleback 
I 
' 
I I I I 1 
two hands again. It'll happen -I really think it will." 
Fleisher underwent physiot­herapy and psychotherapy in unsuc­cessful efforts to cure the ailment: Then in}anuary 1981 he underwent an operation at Massachusetts General to correct a new and not necessarily related problem called carpal tunnel syndrome. 
Before surgery, it was almost im­possible for Fleisher to even hold a baton, hospital spokesman Martin Bander said. His little and ring fin­gers tended to clench. 
After the operation, the clenching returned, but to a much lesser de­gree, Bander said. It was then that physical therapy began. 
Carpal tunnel syndrome "was a subsequent problem," said Fleisher. "We couldn't deal with the first problem until we took care ofthat." 
His doctors were the first to see him play again with two hands, a hospital spokesman said. He per­formed for them at a hospital chapel. 
At the opening of the 2,467-seat Joseph Meyerhof Symphony Hall, named for the philanthropist who contributed S I 0 million to it, Fleis­
her  will  perform  Franck's  Sym­ 
phonic  Variations  and  an  
unaccompanied  nocturne.  The  

event will be taped by the Public Broadcasting Service. 
• • . Poles 
continuedfrom page 6 
London's Standard newspaper reported that the British Army's Spe­cial Air Service commando squad was sending men to Bern to "advise the Swiss police on how to set up listening devices and try to install a minuscule fisheye camera in the building to watch the gunmen." 
The  terrorists,  who  call  them­ 
selves  "The  Polish  Revolutionary  
Home  Army,"  are  holding  eight  

junior Polish diplomatic personnel and a Polish national who was visit­ing the embassy when it was seized, Hubacher said. 
Their leader, who gave his name only as Col. Wysocki, has said that if the demands are not met, he and his "anti-communist paramilitary squad" will blow up the embassy with 55 pounds of dynamite they claim to possess. 
At first, Hubacher said there were 14 hostages, but later reported there were only 12, including three women who were released. The Polish news agency said in Warsaw, however, that there still were 10 hostages in the embassy. 
OBGAlliZATIOll AL MEITIRG 

fo·:· all those interested in 
working with young, inner· 
city children who have failed ~-in public schools. Wed. Sept 8 6:30pm LalOBTVIfE LITTLE 
THEATI.E Any Questions call Mike at 283-69'10 
1 Come Hear About 
~-----------,1
ISHENANIGANSI 
I A new choral IIensemble featuring 1 song and dance 
1 I Wed., 9pm 1 Crowley Recital Hall 1 More info. in 
l~wev 'l!1L"'---­


_--_----_-_-~------~ ~-_-----=----____;__~
-------------=---------_-----_--_---=-----~ 
Wednesday, September 8, 1982-page 7


Editorials 
Education beyond
the classroom 
The popularity of activities icate ourselves to this com­night at Notre Dame and Saint munity of scholars. Mary's shows a community· Our "hands on" learning also wide desire to be involved. But prepares us for the world which this involvment points not only awaits us. We scan the oppur­to an immediate need for in· tunities which lie before us and dividual expression but also to a realize our skills and our hearts higher appreciation ofof educa­lie open to the needs of others. tion. We see life not as self-seeking 
In the spirit of experiential idealists, but as selfless realists, learning, we students pledge willing to work with any situa­ourselves to practicing long tion. hours, writing informative· es­
We learn to seek equality, to says, and aiding the indigent. 

instill respect and to developStudents from Notre Dame 
trust, values which books can­and Saint Mary's earn more than not of themselves provide. We a degree and a grade point come to realize that more 
average; we carry with us a depends on a grin and an at­sense offulfillment from putting titude than on a will to be the 
as much if not more time into 
best. 
extracurriculars as academics. 
Because we commit our­By contributing our talents to selves to the greater good ofthesports, clubs and projects, we whole, we 'deal not in figurestest our abilities by working and facts, but in laughter, tears, toward our physical and mental and hope. We acknowledgelimits. 

learning as living, not asStudents who attended the memorizing. Not content toactivities nights at the Stepan gorge ourselves on our ownCenter and at the Angela Ath­ability to regurgitate, we shareletic Facility testify to the belief our educational experiencein the well-rounded human with equals.

being. Few students empathize 
with the near-sighted intellec­So as the year continues and 
tual; few respect the con­the rain turns. to snow, let us 
summate athlete. What we most remember that each meeting or 
admire is the indivdual who is practice holds more than some­
able to contribute to the group thing to keep us busy. Let us 
effort. Whether we raise -the commit our enthusiasm of this 
banner of school spirit, the autumn and plunge head first in­
placard of free· speech, or the to our studies and extracur­
flag of social justice, we. ded-riculars. 

'MIA!\ OM 

1ii<MJNP 
~? 
""' 


Notre Dame women: the roles men make them play 
As I was walking out of O'Shaughnessy hall discuss their feelings towards the social yesterday afternoon, still thinking about this aspects and career possibilities unique to beautiful girl in my 11 am. class, I began to Notre Dame. take notice ofthe other people walking along After I got over the guilt of being male the quad. Never has the student body at Notre (similar to the "white" guilt produced by the Dame looked so healthy, tan and appealing. television mini-series "Roots", I began to The men seem stronger and tougher than ever recollect related anecdotes that I have ob· before, and the women of Notre Dame have served while at Notre Dame: Memories oflate never seemed so attractive. In the dint ing halls, nights at Corby's where games are played be­there are rows and rows of these "beautiful tween otherwise intelligent people; sports people." This year's crop of freshman women coaches decrying women as "sluts" and make most of the upperclassmen beat their "broads" in the women's absence; a theology heads against tree stumps and wish to be three professor advising me not to heed the ques­years younger. tion that the "empty-headed little girl'' had 
raised in class; the administration's batlling resolution to the Dolores Frese tenure con­Robert lloyd Snyder troversy; and the Title IX turmoil over 
equality ofoppurtunity in sports. 
Notre Dame is an institution still permeated

then mid-week 
by the belief that "all men are created equal," especially if they are white men, like our These thoughts on the male/female forefathers originally intended. Women at relationship at Notre Dame reminded me of a Notre Dame are often largely reduced to pos­phenomenon that continuously nags me each sessions by a large segment of the male com­year during the campus-wide elections. Pos­munity. just look around, or listen to ters for the various candidates magically ap­conversations in the dining halls at a table full pear throughout the campus, each of men. Indeed, while the conversations 
advertisement quite different from the next generally center around sports, someone 
-except in one intrinsically fundamental usually slanders some of the more attractive way. Though women have been members of or more noticeable girls of the campus, and the undergraduate schools since 1972, no 
mixes it with the lusting frustration that Notre wo'Tian has ever been elected student body 
Dame uniquely promotes.president; indeed, no woman has ever actively 
I'm not knocking lust, or sex, or sports, be­

campaigned for the job_ And very few women cause all three items have their place. I'm 
have served as class presidents. While almost knocking slander, chauvinism, and the 
all "tickets" have at least one girl in prominent medieval notion in the Notre Dame display, the overwhelming majority of the philosophy that women are not ordinary candidacies lead us to believe that one of the people. unwritten prerequisites to a primary leader­
It is unfortunate that many boyfriend/ship position on the Notre Dame campus is 
girlfriend relationships at Notre Dame are so male gender. 
secretive and shallow. Some of my friends still 

A friend of mine once sarcastically keep secrets from their fiancees or long·time remarked that most men at Notre Dame held girlfriends, confident that no communication that women were not too insignificant to have problems will develop at a later time. I could relationships with, considering the al­not be as close with my own girlfriend, if she 
ternative, but that they could learn a lot from was not my best friend and confidante. I am 
the subordinance of Japanese women. Al­unable to understand those who would have it 
though I laughed at the time, this remark per­otherwise. _ _ 
haps lies closer to the truth than we wish to The problem does not lie wholly with the 
admit. men, however, as there are a number of 
I had a discussion with two of my best "husband-hunters" on this campus among the friends (who, by design, are girls) on this sub­women, an item which I hope to cover at a ject over the weekend, and I found it quite later date. But this does not excuse men's 
informative. These two women, who I would mindless fear of aggressive women, and the _ not term "hard-core feminists," became al­lame and gutless course that we men have 
most militant when discussing this issue. They adopted by dismissing their career ambitions felt extremely slighted because they believed as "passing fantasy." I love aggressive and am­that their career ambitions were not taken bitious women; conversation is better; their 
seriously by a male-dominated world or a company is more enjoyable, relationships (at male-oriented campus, and that they were ex­Notre Dame??!) are more flexible, etc. Per­pected to eventually marry a "nice banker or haps ifwe men would stop treating women as lawyer." I observed the familiar "love/hate" "future housewives" and start treating them as tendency that is charecteristic to many ag­people with the same needs for self-fulfillment gressive, ambitious women on the Notre and success, Notre Dame might be more like Dame campus, especially when they openly the real world. 
==Ihe_Obseaer== Editorial Board Department Managers 
Tbe Obrerz·er an independent newspaper publisht'd by the students _of the 
Editor-in-Cbief. ............................. Michael Monk llusiiii'S.~ .\ttmagl'r ... ____ ..... ________ .Tony Aidiii 
University of Not -Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Managing Editor ................Ryan Ver Berkmoes 
Conimllt•r _ .. _hil· Sdmlz

rdlcd the poki< of the administration of either institution. The news i~ report­
Executive News Editor ......................... Kelli Flint 
.·ltll't•rtisin,~ .\ttmu.~t·r ... _____ ( :ltris <>wc:n

ed as arcurately a1 ,d as ohjcdively as possible. Editorials represent the opinic.n of SMC Executive Editor ............Margaret Fosmoe 
l'rotluUion .\ftmagl'r__ _ ..... Maura Murphy 

a ma1onty of the Editorial Board. Co.nmcntarics, opinions and letters are the views Sports Editor ................................... Chris Needles Cin·ulation .Utmag,.,· __________ Ray ln~lin of theu authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn 
Srstt•ms .lfmw.~t'r .. ____ ...... 1\run· Oakkythe f~~ ex_pression of varying opinaons ·on campus, through letters, ili encounged. Features Editor ...................................T ari Brown 
Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount 
Founded November .i. 1966

P.O.Box Q, ~!_ltre Dame, IN 46556 (219) l.i9-H03 
''No~h Dtake'' turns cnlwdpleQser 
Tfyou are 1 5 years old, chew bubble gum, are sti I in 
.lhigh school and attended the Rick Springfield co tcert 
last night at the Athletic and Convocation Center, you 
probably saw the concert ofyour life. 

Ifnot, you had an entertaining evening. 
About 6,000 people last night experienced a suitable 

Gregory Swiercz 
cor. tert review 
blend ofhard-driving rock and pop musil fmm Rick Springfield and his special guest the Greg "i.m Band. The frenzied audience rarely used their se;, "as the music kept them hopping and yelping throu:h')ut the performances. 
The experience of both acts was evident thr lUghout the night. The Greg Kihn Band relentlessly kept • strong back beat to their songs, while combining his w th their relaxed style. The crowd reacted fra ttlcall) to nearly every movement the entertainers nlde w aile the Band performed "Happy Man" and"\ t1 :rie." Strong vocals by Greg Kihn kept the crowd roc.dng on its feet throughout their set. 
· The ba11d's presentation of"Tht Breakup •ong" was perhaps their best effort. The sor5 sounded like it was presented in a lower key than tl-.:"album cut, but the crowd responded just the samt. And the crowd, which never failed to respond, aided ne singer throughout the tune. 
The Greg Kihn Band prov .d to the audience they were a versatile group by their encore performance of "For Your Love." Each member ofthe band sang a few stanzas ofthe song, showingall that the talents were not concentrated in one member. 
The Greg Kihn Band excelled as a rock act, but it was evident the crowd looked ahead to the feature aurae· tion. 
And an attraction he was. For the clearly younger audience, any movement 
near the stage sent them into hysterics. In between the two acts, the crowd waited and finally received the 33· year-old teen star with open mouths. Clad in a yellow shirt and aviator-style pants, Rick Springfield wooed and wowed the crowd all night. 
Through a lit cloud ofsmoke, Springfield leaped and 
cranked out a succession of hits, which included 
"Khristina", "Love is Alright Tonight," and 
"Everybody's Girl." He blasttd the crowd as he bopped 
and kicked his way around the stage, while the crowd 
roared its approval. 

Right from the start, Springfield emitted a dynamic 
jolt that reached out to the audience. The crowd 
seemed to'respond to every little contortion or smirk, 
even to a nod ofhis head. 

This frenzied phenomena showed itselfbest when 
Springfield near the middle of his set that the next song 
was dedicated to his father, who died over a year ago. 
He sat down to play an instrumental on an acoustical 
guitar, but wao; heckled by intermittent whoops and 
hollers from unruly adolescents. Even this display of 
rudeness failed to spoil the show. 
Springfield perhaps showed his singing talents best 
when he sang "Inside Sylvia," a slow ballad he also ac· 
companied on keyboards. The ballad led him into a solo 
on an acoustical guitar, which showed his diverse 
talents. 

But the guitar playing ofJimmy Price rose above the 
main attraction. Price's clarity and style outshone that 
ofSpringfield's many times, but the two complemented 
each other well. 

While the middle ofthe concert lagged, the best was 
saved until the last, with "Don't Talk to Strangers" and 
"Jessie's Girl" ripping the lid off the A.C.C. Springfield's 
incessant motion and his strong supporting band 
cranked out fine entertainment. 
The crowd screamed for and got an encore, one that surprised the listeners by playing the end of"Jessie's Girls" before sending the love-struck adolescents home with the tune "I've Done Everything For You." 
Last night's concert displayed the experienced talents of the two different bands. The Greg Kihn Band, which started five years ago in California, proved they could still rock the audiences. Rick Springfield, who has been in and out ofthe music scene for over ten years in Australia (his homeland) and in the United States, has hit upon a market for his diverse talents and charm. 
Put together, this combination produces entertain­ment -at any age. 


Ttivin Quiz 47 
I 
don't think I was too difficult on you last week. You may disagree, but, as Bachman-Turner Overdrive sang in 1974, "you ain't seen n·n­nothin' yet." Before I give you this week's offering, here are the answers from last week: 


Tim Neely 

rock trivia 
I. The last act to have two straight number one albums was BillyJoel (52nd Street and Glass Houses). 
2. The last to have three or more was the Eagles -four, to ht.: exact 
(One ofT!J~:;r: Nights, Their Greatest Hits 1971·1975, Hotel California, and The Long Run). 
3. 
The last to have a debut album hit number one was Asia, ofcourse. 

4. 
The last act to have the number· one and number-two singles at the same time was the Bee Gees, whose 



"Night Fever" and "Stayin' Alive" spent six weeks like that in 1978. 
5. 
The last two-record set to hit the top was Bruce Springsteen's The River. 

6. 
The last three-or-more-record set to do the same was George Har­rison's three-record opusAl/ Things Must Pass in 1970. 

7. 
The last album to yield five Hot 100 singles was Foreigner 4 (they were "Urgent," "Waiting for a Girl Like You," "Juke Box Hero," "Break It Up" and "Luanne"). 

8. 
The last single released by a non-major to hit number one was from Boardwalk Records-JoanJett and the Blackhearts' "l Love Rock 'n' Roll." 

9. 
The last chart-topping single of the 1970s was "Escape (The Pma Colada Song)" by Rupert Holmes. 


1o. The last top-! 0 single by the Beach Boys was 1976's "Rock and Roll Music," taken from their last top-1 0 album, 15 Big Ones. 

Now on to new business. Every once in a while established artists (or later-to-become-established ar­tists) make records under other names. Here are ten examples. Iden­tify the names by which they are bet­ter known. 
1. 
Eivets Rednow 

2. 
The Blue Ridge Rangers 

3. 
The Hawk 

4. 
Bob Guy 

5. 
Arvie Aliens 

6. 
Ben Colder 

7. 
True Taylor 

8. 
The Henhouse Five Plus Too 

9. 
Larry Lurex 

10. 
Runt 


As usual, you can t1nd out the answers in next week's column ... or you can try to find me and ask. Good luck. 


Winwood bncktnlk 

teve Winwood is an artist at the mercy of his lyricists. S This is no reflection upon the man himself, an acknowledged star at 16 with Traffic and part of the infamous "super-group". Blind Faith. 
Winwood writes haunting electronic melodies on his keyboards, melodies that surround and carress the lyrics his soulful voice croons out, displayed at its finest on his hit album of 1980,Arc ofa Diver, his biggest commercial success oflate. 
His latest release, Talking Back To The Night, had all ofits lyrics 
written by Will Jennings, who wrote "When You See A Chance". 
I hope he feels ashamed of himself. 
Ofthe nine lyrics on this album, eight are garbage and these eight 
make the ninth look decent. But this is by no means the only 
problem of the album. Even in his days with Traffic, Win wood had 
problems keeping his inspiritational juices flowing throughout anal­
bum. 


Ed KonrGdy 
record review 
Now that he is self-producing his solo albums and playing all ofthe instruments, Winwood is even more vulnerable to this situation. 
Getting the most out ofa work has been Winwood's genius, but on Talking Back To The Night, there is very little to work with, and what is there has not been fully developed. 
A perfect example ofthe latter is the title song, which is still one of the two best songs on the album. 
jennings pens the only good set oflyrics on the album and Win­wood's music envelopes it well, but Winwood's voice doesn't put the feelings onto the vinyl. 
The lyrics paint vivid pictures (Stranded in the dark ofa vision in a 
park/A poet in his madness tries to find another line/And he's losing 
and he's using/And he says he's doing fine) and Winwood's syn· 
thesizers set an excellent mood. But Winwood sounds tired, as ifhe 
knows the rest ofthe album has used his energy up, and knows by 
now he's used it all in the wrong places. 
The other song that stands head and shoulders (or music and lyrics if you prefer) above the rest is the opening cut, "Valerie". While the song does flash moments oftenderness, it also manages to reach the depths ofbanality. The lyrics have their moments (So cool, she was like jazz on a summer's day/Music, high and sweet, then she just blew away ...) and Winwood's music sets the song apart, but the voice, that soulful voice that put "Arc ofa Diver" on the charts, plays tricks. 
Unique phrasing comes in at varied times, but doesn't give an in­sight on the song; it distracts the listener from it. The use ofan echo while singing in staccato gives an erie "just to prove I've got these special effects" attitude toward this song. 
The single that was released this year, and deservedly went nowhere, "Still in The Game" features a pulsing keyboard that tries to drive trite and banal lyrics. 
Winwood's soft ~nd soulful vocals rise with his music above the pedestrian lyrics of"And I Go." This is Winwood at his best, making an average song seem good. The break seems ill-timed, but it just proves that even Winwood needs a good song to start with. 
On "There's A River", Winwood tries too hard to save this melodramatic piece of trash. Tqis soulless rubbish gets a much bet­ter effort than "Talking Back To The Night" and much, much more than it deserved. 
"Help Me Angel" features junior-high lyrics that give an impres­sion of muzak drowning in sweetness. 
Two songs, "While There's A Candle Burning" and "It Was Happi­ness" prove that Winwood must have had an idea what the album sounded like ....even he sounds bored and disinterested. The music finds a comfortable riffand proceeds to bury it into the ground. The chorus break on both songs inspires sleep and all in all, total hopelessness. 
l'm reviewing"Big Girls Walk Away" last because it typifies the al­bum as a whole. Jennings was obviously more worried about his lyrics rhyming than making sense. 
1fyou respect Steve Winwood and his music pick upArc OfA Diver or Traffic when he played with the group ofthe same name. You'll hear him at his best, not his most banal. 


The Observer Wednesday, September 8, 1982-page 9 
-.,~ .............R;iVER...Clt'Y...RECO.RD~s···PROUDL Y ·p·RESENfS..........u ••T 




UE 
1 
.
.
.
. 
.
. 
.
. 
.
.
. 
..
.
.
.

. . .
. .
. 
.

.. 
.

. .
. .
. .
.. 

. 
. .
. .
. . 
. .
.
. 

~-IN CONCERT Tues., Sept. 28 8pm . 
.
.
.
. Morris Civ-ic Auditorium ~ 
. 
. . South Bend . ~ 
. .
.
.
.
.

~ all seats $9.50 reserved .. 
.
.
. .
. .
. . 
.
.. 

. with special guest : to be arranged ~ 
.
.
. 
. Tickets go on sale this Thursdays Sept. 9 at 1Oam at :
.
.
. 
. River City Records. 50970 U.S-. 31 ~orth :. 277-4242!!! 
. 
. Limit 10 Tickets per Person!!! L 
. .
:···············································································································································;.................~ ..........
.
. 
RIVER CITY RECORDS PROUDLY PRESENTS
. 
.
.
.
. 
.
. 
.
.
.
. 
.
.
.
.
. 
.
.
.
.
.
.

. .
.

. .
. Pete Townshend John Entwhlstle ..
. .. .. 
.. Roget Dalttey Kenny Jones •.
. 
.

. 
.

. .
. .
. .
. .
. .
. .
.
. 

: \ . . 
: ~~. 
~ ~~0 October 5 & 6, 1982 The Rosemont Horizon
~ -~e~e WHO buses leave 
; ~$' Rosemont, Illinois main circle at 
3:45 days of shows

. Limited supply of charter bus trip packages for The Who . Concerts are now on sale at River City Records, 50970 .. U.S. 31 North, South Bend, Indiana. Call 277-4242 for
.
. 
further information. 

. 
.. Package includes round trip transportation by deluxe
. 
. Indiana Motor Bus Coach, good reserved seat to concert 
.
. and refreshments on bus. 
.
.
. . 
~-·······················RiVER ..c.irv··R·e:c·o·Ft"os···cH·A·Rf·E·R··sus··-rou·A·································~ 
1 

.j DETROIT LIONS vs. CHICAGO BEARS !!!! 
This Sunday Sept. 12 Pontiac Silverdome
.
.
.
. Bus packages still available at River City Records , 50970 U.S. 31 North, 277-4242 

·····················································································'·······························································~······················ 
--------~------------------------~~--­
------~ 



------, 
'Sports=l=1=r=r,=·e;if;L=s==============W=e=dn=e=sd=a=y,=S=ep=t~em=b=e=r=8,=1=9=82==p=a=ge=l=O 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
lnterhall football signups will take place this week, The Martial Arts Association of Notre Dame will hold but will be conducted within the individual dormitories. For more an organizational meeting tomorrow at 6:45p.m. in room 219 ofthe information, contact your dorm's athletic commissioner or call the Rockne Memorial. Any students, faculty or staff, beginning or ad-new 24-hour NVAphone line at 239-5100. -The Observer vanced in any martial art, are invited to attend, especially those in­
terested in teaching. For further information, contact Jerry (8241) or Mark ( 7683). -The Observer 
Notre Dame basketball greats Adrian Dantley, Kelly Tripucka and Austin Carr, and 15 other former Notre Dame players will be returning to the ACC September 18 to participate in Ultimate frisbee is back. Practice for the ND-SMC Ul­the Logan Center Benifit Basketball Game. The game is being or­timate Frisbee Club will be today from 3:30 to 5 p.m. Practices will ganized by Notre Dame assistant basketball coaches Gary Brokaw continue each week and will be held every Monday thru Thursday.
and john Shumate, both former lrish All-Americans who will play in 
-The Observer 
the game. "It will be a great opportunity for all of us to help give something back to the South Bend community and enable local fans to do the same," said Brokaw. Tip-off is set for 1 p.m. on Saturday, September 18, just seven hours before Notre Dame opens its 1982 A roatd run for women, the first ever in South football season against Michigan at Notre Dame stadium. Tickets are 
Bend, will be held this Sunday, September 12, at 2 p.m. on the Saint S6 in the lower arena and S4 for upper arena Tickets are selling fast 
Mary's campus. The five-kilometer event will be sponsored in part at Gate I 0 of the ACC. -The Observer by the Saint Mary's Athletic Department. More information on registration fees, prizes, etc., can be obtained by calling 272-7565. ­
The Observer 
Off-campus studentsinterested in coaching any 0­c teams this fall are asked to contact Mick DePaolo, the off-campus athletic commissioner, at 234-5556 for information regarding fees, 
NCAA Volunteers for Youth will hold an or-insurance, deadlines, etc. -The ObserVer 
ganizational meetingfor all student-athletes tomorrow at 7 p.m. in th ACC football auditorium. Volunteers for Youth, sponsored by the NCAA and the Notre Dame athletic department, matches students with youth in the community. -The Observer 
Gerrv Faust will be the guest tonight at 8 p.m. as the Fel­lowship ol Christian Athletes renews its discussion series. The meeting will be held in the Memorial Library Lounge. FCA promtes Christian fellowship among athletes, coaches and spectators in the 
The ·women's Track and Cross-Country Club will hope that this will be shared with the larger community. All are 
hold an' organizational meeting on Monday, Sept. 13 at 7:30 p.m. in invited. -The Observer 
the basement of Breen-Philips Hall. For more information or if you are unable to attend contact Yvie Allmaras at 1349 or Rose Marie Luking at 6896 -The Observer 
Swimmers interested in the Notre Dame varsity swim­ming teams should report for an organizational meeting this after­
AerobiCSexercise class, sponsored by Non-Varisty Ath­noon in room 218 of the Rockne Memorial. Upper-class males 
letics, begins this week in the ACC Concourse Gym 1. Student should report at 4 p.m.; upper-class females will meet at 4:30p.m.; all 
classes meet 4-4:30 p.m. on Monday/Wednesday or Tues­freshmen at 5 p.m. Contact. Coach DennisStark (239-7042)for more 
day/Thursday. There is a $3.00 fee for the seven week course. information. -The Observer 
Classes for faculty and staff meet 5:15 to 5:45p.m. on Tuesday and Thursday. The fee is S 12.00 for seven weeks. Classes begin today and tomorrow. -The Observer 
Notre Dame women interested in joining the Women's Cross Country Club should comact Rose Marie Luking at 
New deadlines have been announced by the office of 6896. -The Observer 
Non-Varsity Athletics. Deadlines for grad football, the golfteam tour­ney, men's interhall soccer, oudoor volleyball, and co-ree water polo are Tuesday, September 14. The deadline for entry in the interhall cross country meet for men and women is September 21.. -The 
ND-SMCWomen's GolfcJubwillholdanorganiza­
Observer 
tional meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in Lyons chapel. Contact Mary Beth Heslin at 1277 for more information. -IThe Observer 
Football ticket distribution continues today at Gate 3 of the ACC. Any Notre Dame/Saint Mary's sophomore, grad student, or Interested in rowing?Contact jill DeLucia at 234-law student who purchased tickets this summer may pick up their 2331 about joining the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's rowing team tickets today until 5 p.m. Freshmen can pick up their tickets tomor­sometime today -The Observer row. A student ID must be shown for each ticket. No student may 
present more than four I D's. -The Observer 

NATIONAL LEAGUE 
East  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
St. LOUIS  77  60  .562  
Philadelphia  77  61  558  .5  
Montreal  74  64  .536  3.5  
Pittsburgh  74  64  536  3.5  
Ch1cago  61  78  439  17  
New York  53  83  390  23.5  
w..t  
Los Angeles Atlanta  77 76  62 62  .554 .551  .5  
San Diego  72  67  .518  5  
San Francisco  71  67  .514  5.5  
Houston  64  74  .464  12.5  
Cincinnati  52  86  .377  24.5  

Yesterday'• R ..ulla Philadelphia 7, Chicago 5 Pittsburgh 9, New York 5 Los Angeles 8, Cincinnati 4 San Francisco 3, Atlanta 2 Montreal 7, St. Louis 4 Houston 4. San Diego 3 
Today'aGamH Philadelphia (Carhon 18-9) at Chicago (Noles 8-11) New York (Ownby 0-2) at Pittsburgh (Robmson 15-8), n. San Diego (Show 10-4) at Cincinnati (Pastore 8-10). n. Los Angeles (Welch 15-10) at Atlanta (Niekro 14-3), n. San Francisco (Hammaker 9-7) at Houston (Niekro 14-9), n. Montreal (Lee 11-8) at St. Louis (Forsch 13-8), n. 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Eut w L Pet. GB Milwaukee 
82 56 594 Balttmore 
78 58 .574 3 Boston 
77 60 562 4.5 Detro11 
70 66 .515 11 New York 
69 67 .507 12 Cleveland 
65 70 .481 15.5 Toronto 
64 75 .460 18.5 w..t Kansas City 
78 60 565 Cahfornta 77 
61 558 1 Chicago 73 64 .533 4.5 Seattle 65 72 .474 
12.5 Oakland 59 .424
80 19.5 Texas 
55 83 .399 23 Minnesota 
49 89 355 29 
Yaaterdey'a Raeulle Cleveland 5, Boston 4, 1 0 innings Baltimore 7, New York 2 Minnesota 8, Texas 1 Milwaukee 4, Detroit1 Chicago 7. Califorma 4 Toronto 2, Oakland 1 
Seattle 5, Kansas City 2 
Todey'aGemas Toronto (Eichelberger 0-2) at Oakland (Conroy 0-0) Boston (Tudor 10-9) at Cleveland (Whitson 2-2), n. Baltimore (Palmer 12-3) at New York (Rawley9-8), n. Minnesota (Castillo 8-11) at Texas (Honneycutt 5­15), n. DetrOit (Ujdur 9-7) at Milwaukee (McClure 10-7), n. Ch1cago (Dolson 10-11) at Cali forma (Witt 8·5), n. Kansas City (Blue 11-9) at Seattle (Beattie 8-10), n. 
The Observer will accept classtfieds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4 30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next 1ssue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day 
/ prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
either 1n person or through the ma1J.


Classifieds 
N LOST: A set of keys Help! Mom & Dad are coming tor the" 1st Desperately need two GA"s now for Miami 
Vote for Stlnkhorn!

LOST: A mega amount of keys on a key game in 4 years! I'll buy or trade lor 1 or 2 game. B1g Bucks. Call Joe 1469. nng w1th the name tag ol Dave Lost last 
student or GA MICHIGAN 11x. Please call Thurs. lllound call 3673. J1m al3211 Desperately need lour(4) GA and/or stu­TOM DUFFY dent 11ckets lor M1ch1gan game Please PSEUDO-CAUFORNIAN NEEDED: SEVERAL MICHIGAN AND call Mike 8728. MIAMI GA"S. ANY AMOUNT OF TICK­
NOTICES FOR SALE ] 
7AFLANNER IMPROVE YOUR GRADES! Research Couch for sale. Dan 623 Grace x67!l5 presents
ETS WILL HELP CALL JOE AT 1785 . catalog· 306 pages· 10,2781opics-Rush QUOTE of the WEEK
FOR RENT 

$1.00 to Box 25097C, Los Angeles, FOR SALE La Petitte Larousse Perfect I may not be as expenenced as you, but
$$$ NEED DESPERATELY 3 TIX TO 90025. (213) 477-8226. for senous French students. $20. bought PERSONALS I'm certa1nly eager to learn. · D
ANY HOME FOOTBALL GAME. WILL new lor $40 Nick 1434 
PAY MEGA BUCKS. CALL MAURA AT AEROBICS IS BACK! For students 
JEANIE POOLE.
4594. classes begin Wed, Sept 8 from 4:00· 1g77 MGB, yellow. Good condition. Call lfs been three weeks now, I hope there
Pnvate room, share k1tchen, bath, Like last night's tacos, MOLARITY IS back
4:30. For faculty & staff classes start 291-6713 after 5. Weekends anyt1me MICH! NEED 2 PAIR GA"S ·HELP! CALL Will be many more as enjoyable in the
laundry. liv1ng areas with other students. to haunt you. You thought it was gone
Thurs. Sepl9 from 5:15-5:45 & meet Tu, future
Walk to campus, half block to bus. 605 N KEVIN at1580 You thought 11 had disappeared from the
Th. If interested meet at ACC Concourse DMT
St. Peter. 288-3942 pages of The Observer forever. Well. you
on first class day BIG BUCKS!!! 

werawrongll 
COME DRINK! Management Clubs

FOR TWO PENN STATE GAs 411111 Orgamzat1ona1 Mee11ng to be held onMOLARITY LIVESII 
MAKE OFFER AND GET RICH 
Molarity: No Outlet contains even more 
Wednesday. Sept. 8 at 8:30 in the BullaCALL 277·4043 1ns1p1d cartoons than ever before for the

IS YOUR HAIR GETIING IN THE WAY Shed. All are welcome. If possible bnng 
L____________.l I.___T_IC_KE_Ts_] outrageous pnce
same Incredibly of

OF YOUR STUDIES?? your $5 yearly dues. All are welcome
MIKE IS WILLING TO PAY $60 PER G A 
_WANTED _ ­
$2.95. Brought to you by Buy the BookCALL MICHOLE FOR A HAIRCUT 

MICHIGAN TICKET. CALL 1589 TODAY! Ocean Front Daytona Motel seeks ener­
Press, lor all your pressing needs. 

ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND $6 FOR getic student as campus rep for spring
NEEDED: ONE STUDENT MICHIGAN mich1gan student ticket in sen10r section. GIRLS break trip Go free and earn good money
TICKET. NAME YOUR PRICE! CALL call Bill 232-2533 BEST TO CALL AFTER 3 AT 7850 MARKETING REP needed to sell SKI & CLAUDIA AT 4559. MOLARITY UVES/1 Resume Satan Motel. 357 South Atlantic 
BEACH TRIPS. Earn cash and free vaca­Weahhy student desperately needs 
Ave .. Daytona Beach. Fl. 32018, Attn· COME JOIN US! CIL.A"S First General TerryAbdo.
NO MALES!

tions. You musl be dynamic & outgoing. NEED 4 MICH AND 2 PURDUE GA"S -MICH studenltix. Call Dan 6863 Meeting gets underway at 6pm tonight in RAVISHING RED HEAD NEEDS HUBBY
CALL 312-871-1070 or wnte SUN & SKI WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR! KEVIN t770 BY GRADUATION OR HER HOPES OF
the Memorial Ubrary Lounge. Doni forget ND/SMC DEBATE AND SPEECH HAVING EIGHT KIDS AND FOURADVENTURES. 2256 N. Clark St.. NEED 2 GA"S FOR MICH GAME CALL 
your orientation weekend forms. Chicago. IL 60614. wanted: lix for e1ther the michigan and/or NANCY AT 1273 COUNCIL Organizational meet1ng will be 
YEARS OF COLLEGE WILL ALL GO

purdue home lootball gam41s. will pay bux Thursday, September 9 at 7:30pm in lhe CILA ORIENTATION WEEKEND! Washington Hall Auditorium. Be There!
DOWN THE DRAIN. YOUR THIRD Ride to U. of ILLINOIS (Champaign) lor deluxe! call matt277-4573: Need two Mich GA"s and will pay ROOMATE.

Sept.1Q-11 Fun overnighter. Pickup ap­three, weekend of Sept. 10. Will share mmegabucks. Please call John at8478 

plications at Activities Night. QuestiOns to Nefiiirwo.Mi:.\i.ii i~~i~-GA·-~;d ·c;;;,, DOMERS AT NOTRE DAME SALUTE
usual. Mary 8148 Go1ngto
b8 answered at the General Meeting 8985 MARY & TIM AND WISH THEM ALL THE
I NEED 1 OR 2 PURDUE GA TIX TORONTO
Wed., Sept.8 at Spm. EVERYONE BESTONSEPT.11
Ride to U. of ILLINOIS (Champaign) for PLEASE CALL MARK 8332 
lh1s weekend? need ride. will help with WELCOME three, weekend ol Sept. 10. Will share 
H£LPI My parents have moved and won·r usual. call277-3002
tell me the lorwatding address unlit I can Fr. George says "Oh my!" 
usual. Mary 8148 RICH FRIENDS NEED MICH GA"S. 
come up with 2 Miami GAs and 1 Miami
........................., NAME YOUR PRICE!! CALL STEVE 
student ticket. If you can help me •>ut. call Sue: Mothers. lock up your sons! Julie Wodar­
Waitress and kitchen help needed lor 1553. Tim at x8631. Thanks! You still have a ram check lrorn summer
South Bend/Notre Dame's newest mte cyk enters adulthood today as she club. Apply in person at 401 E. Collax, celebrates the big 2-1. In the absence of
session 

l. 
Need 1 Mich. GA or Student he -Ooug 
Wednesday, Sept. 8, lrom41o8p.m. One Need one student ticket lor Moch;gc,n. Call Bruce Senior Bar. Julie will be toasting the b1g
\. LOST/FOUND 

6166 
day onlv! Go lor ill Johnx3554. day with moonshme lrom her homemade 
FoR-SALE·:·· 4-s···M~hiQ~~---,;~k;·i~···;~ A-F-1 still in 309 LewiS Hall. Stop by lor a shol. 
A-Framut 

............................................................. NEEDED-3.0 to 4.6 cubic ft refrigerator: INEED 2 OR 3 MICH TIX. CALL JASPER vanous locatiOns. Call Dave at 3673 or congratulate Julie at 3882. Happy FOUND-One calculator. Call Gary 1223. CALL2244 anytime.
AT 277-3276. A-Fr...,..l birthday Julie! 
............_...._.................._....,.....................:·:·· ······:··_·.::-~·-·:·:·::··::· .. . 
The Observer Sports Special-Soccer Wednesday, September 8, 1982-page 11 
Soccer squad seeks to iniprove even niore 
By SAM SHERRILL 
Sports Writer 
After a year in which the Fighting Irish soccer team posted their most impressive season ever, including an upset of then-No.1 ranked St. Louis, can this year's edition really hope to better such a standard? The answer appears to be yes. Coach Rich Hun­ter, in his sixth season as head coach, feels that the squad's greatest strength will be teamwork. 
"This team, unlike some in the 
past, doesn't really have one in­
dividual star," Hunter says. "But our 
team has good overall talent. We 
have five men up front who arc 
capable ofgiving us nine, ten, eleven 
goals. So we're expecting more of a 
balanced scoring attack." 
Senior Gerard McCarthy will be 
the starter in goal after a one-year 
hiatus. Another returnee will be tri­
captain Mark Luetkehans, back after 
a year abroad, to play the important 
position ofsweeper. The three start­
ing fullbacks will be seniors Brad 
McCurrie and Larry Smith and junior 
Ted Schwartz. The other two tri­
captains, Mike Sullivan and Jay 
Schwartz, will anchor the midfield, 
with Steve Berry rounding out the 
halfback corps. Up front, junior Ken 
Harkenrider and sophomore Rich 
Herdegen are slated to man the 
wings, with senior Mario Manta the 
center forward. 
Hunter has been pleased with the 
dedication the players have shown. 
"When you lose players like Jim 
Stein (fullback) and Sami Kahale (last year's leading scorer), it can naturally create problems, bringing in new people. But the players havt· really been great about keeping up their workout schedule over the summer. We started working in January, and the guys have really sacrificed a lot. We're much further along than 1thought we'd be.'' 
Add to these comments the prospect of several quality fresh­men, and you sec the reason for the optimism surrounding the squad. 
But what of that elusive NCAA 
Tournament bid? "The reason get· 
ting to the NCAA is so difficult," 
Hunter explains, "is that there is 
such an unusually small number of 
tournament spots. Nevertheless, .1 
think we have a chanc<' at it. It 
depends on how we do in our big 
games, like Ohio State, Akror, and 
Indiana. If we get the scoring up 
front and the halfbacks contribute, I 
think we'll do well." 
"Teams like Indiana, we can beat 
them, but we're just not really "of 
their caliber. The main reason for 
that is the amount of financial back· 
ing they get from their university 
which we just don't get from ours. 
It's really discouraging to me how 
little support the Athletic Depart­
ment gives us in relation to some of 
the other sports." 
The outlook appears to be good, 
then, for this year's lrlsll socccr 
team, and, if injuries don't pop up 
and the ball bounces the right way, 
they may finally end up in the NCAA. 
Soccer action starts tonight at 7:00 
at Cartier Field. 

Senior Larry Smith, shown here attempting a will be the startingfullback for the Fighting Irish stealfrom an Indiana University playerlastyear, soccer team this season. (APPhoto) 
Tri-captain . 
Luetkehans typifies Irish intensity 
ByALGNOZA 
Sports Writer 
Mark Luetkehans is a man ofmany talents, but you probably won't hear very much about him or his inter­ests. You see, Mark happens to play soccer, and a soccer player at Notre Dame just doesn't get a lot of atten­tion. 
Irish coach 


PopularHuntershunsspotlight 
By SAM SHERRILL 
Sports Writer 
How many coaches do you know of who can boast a 93-24-6 career record -all in the first five years of his program's existence? Rich Hun­ter's Notre Dame soccer teams have not only been consistent winners, but also hold the national records for longest winning streak ( 26) and goals scored in a season ( 116). Hun­ter, however, is the last one to take 
credit for these successes. 
"I think the players deserve all the credit," he says. "I don't like any per­sonal acclaim. Leave it to them.'' Nevertheless, it's safe to say that without Rich Hunter, there might not be a soccer team at Notre Dame, and certainly not one of the caliber there is now. 
From the start, Hunter's teams were successful, compiling a I6-l-l record in their maiden season. But the schedule then was nothing like it is now. "Teams like St. Louis, In­diana, and the others (regulars in the national ran kings) are on our 
schedule every year now," Hunte,r 
explains. "This weekend we'll be 
going to Rochester for that tourna­
ment (including Georgetown, 
Syracuse, and Rochester). All four 
teams are highly competitive. 
Syracuse is of Top Twenty caliber 
and probably has the beSt 
goalkeeper in the country. So things 
are a lot tougher now. A team like 
1think theplayers 

deserve all the credit. I don't like anypersonal acclaim. Leave it to 
them.' 
IUPU -that we open with -wa:; the kind of team that we used to have trouble with back in 1977. But now we look at that game as a chance to work on our skills and concentrate on the basics." 
Even with the increasingly dif­ficult schedules, the Irish have main­tained their successful tradition. Last 
I I 
Goal Gerard McCarthy (Dan Coughlin) (Mike Dixon) 
Sweeper Joe Holterman (Dom Driano) 
Fullback Fullback Fullback Ted Schwartz Larry Smith Brad McCurrie (Drew l'alumho) (Bruce Novotny) 
Halfback Halfback Halfback Jay Schwartz Mark l.uctkchans Mike Sullivan (Ed Graham) (Tom Holubcck) (Steve Bcrrv) 
(Brian Barrington) 

Winjl  Center J."orward  Wing  
Rich Henkgcn  Mario Manta  Ken Harkenridcr  
(Steve Chang)  (David Miles)  (Ed Williams)  

year's edition finished 16-3-3, including quality showings against most of the big names on the schedule. The secret? Dedication. Dedication from the players and from the coach. It is no exaggeration to say that the majority ofthe neces­sities for a quality Notre Dame soc­cer team have been contributed by Rich Hunter himself 
A 1971 graduate of Notre Dame, 
Hunter later earned his law degree 
here and presently teaches courses 
in business law in the College of Business. But the majority of his time is spent on the soccer team, which he almost singlehandedly has brought to the point it's at today. 
His philosophy is simple -"I tell the guys out there to just con­centrate on doing what you do best. Don't try to be what you can't. I could try and be a criminal lawyer, but I don't think I could do as good a 
job as I can as a teacher and a coach. 
If you do your best, then I think 
you're a success, win or lose." 
At the end of the year, one of the 
biggest rumors on campus usually 
has Rich Hunter leaving Notre Dame 
for greener pastures. Every August, 
however, has found him still holding 
court in the classroom and on the 
soccer field. Is this year finally going 
to be his last under the shadow of 
the Golden Dome? 
"l don't really have too much ofa 
say about that. I'm not tenured here, 
so it's really out of my hands. I've 
been here ten years now, and 
sometimes I think about doing other 
things. Someday it may be time to 
move on. But I don't really know 
when." 
Few personalities on campus can 
boast of the popularity which Hun­
ter enjoys, evidenced by the way in 
which studeitts fight to get in his 
classes, and the high demand for 
recommendations from him. The 
greatest accolade, however, came in 
1981 when he was elected Senior 
Class Fellow -an honor previously 
bestowed on the likes of Eugene 
McCarthy, Ara Parseghian, and Ray 
Meyer. No coach is more deserving 
ofsuch praise. 
Similarly, the Notre Dame soccer program takes a back seat to football. There are no Notre Dame soccer highlights on network television and it doesn't matter what the coach used to hum on his way to little league practice. The alumni don't 
pay to see it so no one is goingto get 
paid to play it. 
That's right, no scholarships. Just a 
desire to play the game and to go to a 
good school. 
It is this sacrificing, hard-working attitude which Luetkehans · ex­emplifies most. Suffice it to say that if Pete Rose had played soccer, he probably would have played a lot like Luetkehans. 
"An aggressive player? Yes, I guess I play pretty hard," said Luetkehans. "But I also feel I use a lot offinesse. 
"The way I play helps to ,in­timidate opposing players," confessed the senior midfielder, one of the team's tri-captains. "When I make a tackle I try to use a lot of my body just to let the guy know .it's me." 
Lest you think Mark is just a run­of-the-mill goon, take note ofthe fact that he played in 2 5 games .as a fresh-· man and 24 ·games as a Sbph·o.more. Luetkehans came out of high school with all-conference, all-sectional 
and all-Midwest honors. · 
During his freshman campaign Mark played with a fractured arm throughout a good part of the season. "In my senior year of high school I broke the wrist in a baseball game (breaking up a double play) 
and I didn't find out it was fractured unti!Jater on in the season. 
The arm took so long to heal that Luetkehans finally had to get an operation before his sophomore year. 
Hardships are nothing new to the Morrissey Hall resident, who is tack­ling a schedule that would even make Gerry Faust cringe. Mark iJi taking 20 credit hours as.an architec· tural student -with a few civil engineering courses thrown in to break up the monotony. He's also AROTC. 
No, Luetkehans isn't mentally ill. 
He just knows how to tackle a tough· 
workload. "As long as you know you _ 
have to do a certain thing you can 
keep going at it," he said. 
The Irish will also have a tough 
road ahead -trying to overcome 
the loss of several key players from 
last year's 16-3-3 team -as the team 
seeks its first-ever NCAA tourna­
ment bid. 
With a little student support, the 
Irish could have a very rewarding 
season. "Our support has been get· .ting better each year," observed Luetkehans. "Everyone has worked ~ very hard; especially Coach (Rich) Hunter. 
"The Rochester Tourney (with Georgetown, Syracuse, Rochester and the Irish) will be a major hurdle in our schedUle. If we can do well · there, I think it will be a good year." 
The trip, incidentally, will not be 
made through the friendly skies. 
Word has that Luetkehans will be 
the one driving the bus. 


The Schedule 
1982 NOTRE.DAME SOCCER 

Sept. 8 (Wed.) Sept. 10-11 (Fri.-Sat. ) Sept. 15 (Wed.) Sept. 17 (Fri.) Sept. 20 (Mon.) Sept. 21 (Tues.) Sept. 24 (Fri.) Sept. 28 (Tues.) Oct. 1 (Fri.) Oct. 8 (Fri.) Oct. 10 (Sun.) Oct. 12 (Tues.) Oct. 13 (Wed.) Oct. 15 (Fri.) Oct. 17 (Sun.) Oct. 20 (Wed.) Oct. 23 (Sat.) Oct. 25 (Mon.) Oct. 28 (Thur.) Oct. 30 (Sat.) Nov. 2 (Tues.) Nov.6 (Sat.) 
IU-PU FORT WAYNE at Rochester (N.Y.) Tournament VALPARAISO OHIO STATE WHEATON ST.JOSEPH'S at Indiana at Loyola DAYTON WESTERN MICHIGAN LOUISVILLE at Chicago AKRON DEPAUL at Marquette at Valparaiso at Kentucky at Belmont Abbey 
·at UNC-Greensboro at Wake Forest GRACE at Toledo 
,.,.. 

·~~· 4_.._,..,...-~_, ·I'J)~~~....... J;""...-.,......_...._.~... ----.........~.LJI...-.:ta.-........, _j 
-~ 
-----------------------, 
------~·-------­

The Observer Wednesday, September 8, 1982-page 12 

Races tighten as baseball season winds up 
Dodgers back in 1st, 
down Cincinnati 

CINCINNATI (AP) Dusty 
Baker drove in four runs with a 
homer, double and single as the Los 
Angeles Dodgers regained first place 
in the National League West with an 
8-4 victory over the Cincinnati Reds 
last night. 

The Dodgers' win put them one­
half game ahead of Atlanta, which 
lost to San Francisco. 

Baker's two-run double keyed a 
five-run third inning and he added a 
two-run homer in the sixth. 

Reliever Dave Stewart, 8-7, got 
the victory. He replaced starter 
Rickey Wright as the Reds scored 
three runs in the second inning. 

Singles by Johnny Bench nd Paul Householder, a sacrifice and Alex Trevino's intentional walk loaded the bases for · Cincinnati in the second. Reds' starter Greg Harris, 2­5, then lined a two-run single. After Stewart came in, Rafael Landestoy's RBI groundout made it 3-0. 
Twins 8, Rangers 1 

ARLINGTON, Texas (AP) Randy Bush and Kent Hrbek homered during a five-run fifth in­ning last night that carried the Min­nesota Twins to an 8-1 victory over the Texas Rangers. 
Hrbek homered for the third time in three games against Texas this week, while Bush got his second homer in as many games as the Twins accumulated 15 hits. Gary Ward had four of those hits. 
Twins starter AI Williams, 7-7, got relief help frorn Ron Davis, who earned his 18th save with three shutout innings. Texas pitcher Jim Farr made his major-league debut in reliefofstarter Steve Comer, 1-6. 
t 
' 
t 
t 
t 

Bush doubled home Ward in the second for a 1-0 Twins lead, and led offthe fifth with his second homer to make it 2-0. Lenny Faedo followed with a double, and scored on a single by Bobby Mitchell, who took second on the throw home. After Tom Brunansky's RBI single made it 4-0, Hrbek clubbed his 22nd homer to right field. 
Brewers 4, Tigers 0 

MILWAUKEE (AP) Cecil Cooper lined a three-run homer to cap a four-run eighth inning and Don Sutton scattered seven hits for his first Milwaukee victory, leading the Brewers to a 4-0 win over the Detroit Tigers last night. 
Sutton, 1-1, acquired by Mil­
waukee from Houston on Aug. 30, 
struck out nine and walked none as 
the Brewers kept a three-game lead 
over second-place Baltimore in the 
American League East. It was Sut­
ton's sixth complete game of the 
year. 

Loser Dan Petry, 14-8, carried a 
three-hitter into the eighth when Ed 
Romero beat out a single to deep 
shortstop. Romero raced to third on 
a hit-and-run single by Paul Molitor 
and Robin Yount slapped a single to 
left, his third hit, to break a scoreless 
tie. 

Cooper then lined a 2-0 pitch into 
the right-field seats for his 28th 
homer, finishing Petry. 
Orioles 7, Yanks 2 

NEW YORK (AP) John Lowenstein cracked three hits, including his 22nd homer of the season, and drove in two runs to sup­port Mike Flanagan's fifth straight tri­umph as Baltimore defeated the New York Yankees 7-2 Tuesday night, giving the Orioles their I Oth svaight victory and I 7th in their last 18games. 
t 

of'83.
t 
t 
t 

t If you are thinking that far ahead, we may have a job for you.t 
W. R. Grace & Co. is looking for t outstanding undergraduates to join us in a summer intern program betweent 
iunior and senior years. 
t 
t We are looking for especially talented: ACCOUNTING AND 
ENGINEERING MAJORS
t 

Students with outstanding
t academic records and with a demor'lstrated interest in outside 
t 
t activities ... Men and women with a genuine interest in business and 
with that special mix of t imagination, ability and foresight necessary for success ... 
t 
t Individuals of inordinate curiosity, and the willingness to learn in an 
unstructured environment. 
t In a recent summer, one of our recruits spent her twa months in Belgium doing marketing research. One came to
•t 

New York for a special project in our Corporate Finance Department and 
t 
t 
-t 

The streak is Baltimore's longest since 1980, when the Orioles captured I 0 in a row from Aug. 1 through Aug. 11. It is the second lon­gest winning streak in the American League this season, topped only by Cleveland's 11-game winning streak from May 23-June 4. 
Baltimore has not lost since Aug. 27, when it dropped the second game ofa doubleheader to Texas. 
Flanagan, 13-10, making his 30th start this year, lasted seven innings and gave up 10 hits and two runs while walkmg none and striking out four. Tippy Martinez pitched the final two innings. 
The Orioles jumped out to a 1-0 lead in the first inning off Mike Mor­gan, 6-9, when AI Bumbry led off with a walk, Glenn Gulliver singled and Lowenstein smacked an RBI single to center. 
Indians 5 , Red Sox 4 
CLEVELAND (AP)-Alan Bannis­ter's bases-loaded single with two outs in the bottom ofthe I Oth inning scored Rick Manning to give the Cleveland Indians a 5-4 victory over the Boston Red Sox last night. 
With one out in the lOth, Miguel Dilone doubled to right-center off Mark Clear, 13-8. Rick Manning was walked intentionally and pinch­hitter Mike Hargrove walked to load the bases. 
Bill Nahorodny then hit a check­swing grounder to third baseman Carney Lansford, who forced Dilone at the plate for the second out. But Bannister followed with his single down the left-field line. 
Dan Spillner, 12-8, picked up the 
victory in relief. 
Cleveland tied it in the ninth against Clear. Chris Bando walked leading oft; and was run for by Mike Fischlin, who was sacrificed to second. Bannister also walked and, after Larry Milbourne flied out, Toby Harrah singled to right. Fischlin barely beat Dwight Evans' throw 
from right field to tie it. 
t 
t 
.t 
t 
t
t 


Lets talk 
t
t 

t
t 


about the summer 
t 
t 
t 
t t 
another spent the summer with one of our Chemical Divisions as a Process 
t 
Engineer. 

t 
As your placement officer will tell you, 
t
our global interests in chemicals, natural resources and consumer 
t 
products offer a rare diversity of opportunity. 
t 
We will be on your campus soon. If this 
t 
ideo challenges you-and you enjoy a challenge-take some time now to 
It outline your qualifications in a thoughtful letter to: 
Manager of College Relations 
W.R. Grace & Co. 
t 
Phillies 7, Cubs 5 
CHICAGO (AP) -Garry Mad­dox's two-run single with two out in the ninth inning carried the Philadelphia Phillies past the 
Chicago Cubs 7-5 in a see-saw battle yesterday. 
Leon Durham's 20th homer of the season with one out in the Chicago eighth tied the score after the Phils had taken a 5-4 lead in the top ofthe inning when Maddox doubled and scored on a pinch-hit single by Greg Gross. 
Mike Schmidt drw a one-out walk 
in the ninth off Bill Campbell, 3-5, 
the fourth Chicago pitcher. Bo Diaz 
doubled him to third. Lee Smith 
came on and got George Vukovich 
to foul out before Maddox delivered 
his single to center. 
Expos 7, Cards 4 
ST. LOUIS (AP) -Tim Wallach and Andre Dawson slugged two-run homers as the Montreal Expos managed only six hits but defeated the St. Louis Cardinals 7-4last night. 
The two home runs handed St. Louis its fourth setback in five games, paring the Cardinals' lead in the National League East to a half­game over the Philadelphia Phillies, who beat Chicago. 
Montreal, moving within 3 and a 
half games of St. Louis, scored two 
go-ahead runs in the fifth inning 
without benefit ofa hit. 
After Wallach hammered 20th home run of the season off rookie Jeff Lahti, 4-3, to produce a 3-3 tie in the fourth, the Expos loaded the bases in the fifth on three walks. 
Veteran reliever Jim Kaat un­
corked a wild pitch, sending winner 
Bryn Smith, 2-1, home from third 
base. Montreal gathered a second 
run on AI Oliver's infield out and 
lockd up its victory on Dawson's 
two-run smash, his 19th, off Steve 
Mura in the seventh. 
Jeff Reardon pitched the three in­
nings to gain his 23rd save. 
Giants,3, Braves 2 
ATLANTA (AP) -Chili Davis opened the game with a home run and Reggie Smith added a two-run shot in the fourth, whilejim Barr got eighth-inning help from reliever Greg Minton as the San Francisco Giants beat Atlanta 3-2 yesterday and handed the Braves their fourth 
straight loss. 
It was the fifth straight victory for the Giants and their seventh in a row over the slumping Braves in just 
over a month. Atlanta had gone into the game leading the National League West by one-halfgame over 
Los Angeles, which was playing in 
Cincinnati. 
Davis put Atlanta starter Rick Camp, 1 1-8, in a hole quickly, sen­ding a drive over the left field fence for his 16th home run ofthe season. Smith's homer to left, his 17th ofthe year, scored Jack Clark, who had singled. 
Atlanta's Dale Murphy homered in the bottom of the fourth, his 33rd, tying him for the league lead with the New York Mets' Dave Kingman. Murphy now leads the league with 100 runs batted in. 
Barr is now 4-3. 
Astros 4, Padres'3 
HOUSTON (AP) -Frank DiPino 
struck out I 0 batters in his first 
major league start and Dickie Thon 
knocked in two runs with a double 
and a single to lead the Houston 
Astros to a 4-3 win over the San 
Diego Padres last night. 
DiPino, who came from Mil­
waukee as part of the Don Sutton 
trade last week, pitched only five in­
nings. The rookie left-bander struck 
out the first four hitters he faced and 
allowed seven hits and walked none 
before giving way to Dan Boone, 
who earned his second save with 
four innings ofone-hit relief. Boone 
struck out three and walked none. 
Thon's RBI single and a run­
scoring double by Ray Knight gave 
Houston a 2-0 off loser Juan Eichel­
berger, 7-12, in the third inning. 
The Padres tied the score on Sixto 
Lezcano's run-scoring single in the 
fourth and Garry Templeton's 
sacrifice fly in the fifth. 
The Astros took a 4-2 lead in the 
bottom of the fifth on Terry Puhl's 
run-producing triple and Than's 
double. 
Pirates 9, Mets 5 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Jason Thompson became the eighth player to ever hit 30 home runs in each league while Richie Hebner and Mike Easle also homered as the Pittsburgh Pirates beat the New York Mets 9-5last night. 
Thompson's two-run homer in 
the first inning was his 30th of the 
season. Thompson, who also 
became a father earlier in the day, hit 
31 homers for Detroit in 1977. 
Pittsburgh broke the game open with four runs in the fourth. Easler's solo homer, his 13th of the season, came off loser Mike Scott, 7-13, and broke a 3-3 tie. Then after Bill Mad­lock singled and Thompson walked, Hebner greeted reliever Randy 
joneswith a three-run homer to give the Pirates a 7-3lead. 
Manny Sarmiento, 7-3, got the vic­tory. Kent Tekulve pitched the final two innings. 

'Grace Plaza 1114 Avenue of the Americas New York, New York 10036 
I PR. Engineering.and Sales 
One step ahead of a changing world. 

: I no experience required! 
t I 
sign-ap 8:00 pm

t I WED
chemicals • no!urol resources • consumer products 
. sharp

t 
239-7342 or 239-7425

Arch. Aud. 
t 
for details

t 



IWSltD~= 
I ttEEDS YOU! Interviewsfor AM. FM. news. Sports. Production. 
..,.. .....
...... .­
~ 

~-----~-~ --~.-­
The Observer Wednesday, September 8, 1982-page 13 
Players, NFL back at the table 

WASHINGTON (AP)-National Football League contract talks resume today, with team owners ready to raise their money offer and the players' union refusing to rule out the possibility of a strike before Sunday's start ofthe regular season. 
Sources close to the NFL Manage­ment Council, which represents the owners, told The Associated Press yesterday that the new offer, while not addressing the players' demand for salaries based on a guaranteed percentage of gross revenues, will include "a substantial across-the­board wage hike." They would not elaborate. 
Ed Garvey, executive director of the NFL players Association, said that it was "highly unlikely" that a strike culd be averted unless wages were tied to a fixed percentage of gross revenues. 
He did say, however: "we will dis­cuss any offer that is a basis for future negotations." 
The owners' last offer was 
rejected out ofhand by the union. 
Garvey refused to rule out a strike 
this weekend. "We're still discussing 
our options," he said. 
At last month's meeting of player 
representatives in Chicago, the uni­
on reaffirmed its demands for sub­
stantial wage increases for all 
players, a guaranteed fair share of 
revenues and elimination of what 
the union considers incentives for 
teams to cut older players for finan­
cial reasons. 
"Ifthe owners' new proposal does not address these issues, there can­not be an agreement," Garvey in­
sisted yesterday. 
Both sides, however, will con­
tinue to meet separately with 
McMurray, and he said he would be 
available to help this week ifasked. 
Union officials, meanwhile, 
expressed renewed concern about 
retaliation by club owners toward 
team player representatives. 
Monday, the Buffalo Bills waived tackle Mike Kadish, a former Notre Dame standout, and the second player rep in a week to be cut. 
"We are talking to Kadish to determine all of the circumstances of his waiver," Garvey said. "The players that are losing their jobs are capable and should be working somewhere. We have said all along that we won't be able to reach an agreement until all of the player representatives have some job with their teams." 
Allnewfor '82 
Irish volleyball team set to open 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
The woman's volleyball team, younger but more experienced than everand armed with a new system of offensive plays, is ready to begin its third varsity season and its first year in Division I with a match tomorrow 
against IUSB. 
Coach Sandy Van Slager's squad is looking to improve on its first two seasons in which it compiled 3-19 and 17-25 records, respectively. The marked improvement should con­tinue this season. 
"The improvement between the first and second years was a definite indication of the team's growth," said Van Slager. "There should be even more improvement this year, though. On a scale of ten, there should be seven or eight points im­
provement." 
Van Slager may seem to be overly optimistic, but she feels that there is good reason to be optimistic. 
"The girls have been training in the off-season," she explains. "We had the girls lift increased amounts of weight. We've also stressed com­petitive involvement. From February to May we competed in the USVA (U.S. Volleyball Association). It gave us game experience that will help us this year." 
The addition oftwo more scholar­ship freshmen will also give the team a big boost. Their credentials speak for themselves. Karen Bauters ( Mishawaka,In.) competed in the Junior Olympic National Competi­tion and was named most valuable player in the volleyball competition which fielded over 100 teams. Mary Mclaughlin was named most valuable player in her league in Santa Barbara, California which is in the heart ofvolleyball country. 
Van Slager also is impressed by the ability ofwalk-on Tracy Bennington 
(Colorado Springs, Co.) who has a 
vertical leap of 23 inches. "She 
jumps higher than the girls I have 
been training for a year,"said Van 
Slager. 
These three freshmen join a team 
that includes seven letter-winners 
from last year's squad, including the 
team's first two scholarship winners, 
sophomores Mary Jo Hensler 
(Cincinnati, Oh.) and Josie Mater­
nowski (South Bend, ln. ). 
Senior Jackie Pagley (Miami, Fl.) and juniors Maureen Morin (Mishawaka, ln.) and Terese Henken (Carlyle, 11.) are the veterans of the te,lJOl, while sophomores Robin Is­rael (North Huntington, Pa) and Julia Pierson (Portland, Or.) also return from last year's team. 
The increased experience has given the team something it needed badly -depth. This depth will be most evident on offense. 
"Depth on offense is a major strength now,"explained Assistant Coach Dan Anderson. "Before, while it wasn't a weakness, it wasn't too good. 
"The experience has made the girls easier to teach and they're now learning to control an offensive sys­tem. We can now have a game plan for every match." 
These game plans will involve set 
offensive plays, a new addition to the 
team's play. 
"Last year,"said Van Slager, "our 
offense was a basic middle attack. 
This year we are trying to confuse 
the opponents with our movements. 
We'll try to draw their defense away 
from the spot where the ball will go 
over the net. Like basketball, we're 
going to do a lot offaking." 
"We'll be doing a lot more than 
just trying to get the ball over the 
net,"added Anderson. 
Ifthe team is to be successful in its 
new offense, however, it is going to 
have to overcome its major weak­
ness -youth. 
. . .Boyer 
"The newness of the program is a 
major weakness,"said Van· Slager. 
"We have a young team. Most ofth~ 
starters will be freshmen and sopho­
mores, so they haven't played to­
gether much." 
It will not take much time for the ·team to get used to each other. 
Unlike last year, the team will play a 
large number of early season 
matches, including tough matches 
against Michigan and Michigan State. 
"Record improvement" is the coaches' main goal for the season. "Last year," said Van Slager, "my goal was to go .500. We didn't reach that so I felt it should be this year's goal. However, we can do better than that." 
Will the women's volleyball team at Notre Dame ever become a na­tional powerhouse? "If they let the program grow, we will get there," said Van Slager. "Right now the ath­letic department seems favorable. It all boils down to getting the best players who have the grades to get into the school. We have to find a balance between skill and academics. 
"We may never be the best, but I 
think we will be competition for the 
best. If we're competitive, people 
will want to play us and we'll get bet­
ter because the only way we're 
going to get better is to play teams 
that are equal to us or better." 
The IUSB game that will be played 
Thursday at 7:30 in the ACC Pit will 
show how far the Irish have come. 
Their opponents are beginning a 
volleyball program of their own this 
year. Both Van Slager and Anderson 
feel that the match should be won 
easily. 
Perhaps one of the biggest ques­
tions to be answered on Thursday is 
whether the Pit, an auxiliary gym, is 
an acceptable place for the team to 
play. Past games have more than 
filled the small number of seats. If a 
match against tiny IUSB can fill the 
gym, the possibility ofplaying in the 
arena might be considered. 
Dan Anderson sums up the 
upcoming year by saying that "there 
is no place to go but up." 
Ill! 0111111 
~ CLUBS AND OR · · · I 
0111111 ~
c 
~~ A TIVITY FEE FUNDING ~ 
•, ~ ~ ·, ~~0111111 
~ A ~ ~ pplications for receiving Student Activity Fee Funds 
0111111 0111111 ~ ~ ~ 
~ are now ava•'lable ··n Student Actl'vtt'··es Off'•ce ~ 
.~ ~ ~ 0111111 ~ 1st Floor laFortune. ~ 
~ ~ 
0111111 ~ 
~ , ~ 
National Football League owners andplayers will be back at the bargaining table today in an effort to avoid the players' strike that could come as soon as Sunday. The two sides are reportedly nowhere near an agreement. ( AP Photo) 

Student Union Ptesents 


ZZTOP 
<:.


ONCERT LOTTER 
Sept. 8 7:30pm in the LaFottune Nazz 
-<.

GANIZAJIONS I I I 
rontinu~~mp~O 
Le~~u1:.:~!~~~:::~et~~a~:.i?;;~ 
Cardinals won the World Series in seven games over the New York Yankees that year with the help of a Boyer grand slam home run. Boyer hit .300 or better five times for St. Louis and cracked 255 of his 282 career home runs for the club. He had 1,141 career RBI, includ­
ing 1,001 for St. Louis. His 32 home 
runs in 1960 were the most ever by a St. Louis third baseman. 
Boyer managed the Cardinals for a little more than two seasons after retiring as a player in 1969. He guided the Cardinals to a third-place 
~~e~inthefield&dhl~get 
the recognition he deserved until
~:~~h. :~rt~e ~~ :~~h ~\:i~~~ 
strong player, was tough to handle." Funeral services will be held tomorrow in Ballwin, Mo., a suburb of St. Louis, and burial will be on Friday in Purcell, Mo.. Boyer was born in Liberty, Mo., but spent most of his life in Alba, Mo., near Joplin. He was first signed 
by the Cardinals to a major league
contract in 1949. 
His brother Clete played with the 
New York Yankees, and is currently the tird base coach with the Oakland Athletics. Another brother, Cloyd, pitched with the Cardinals and 
finish in 1979 with a 86-76 record. Kansas City Athletics in the '50s, and ~ · ~ 
~~:.~;~~~~~~~~.:..~~·-'~;:;::~~:~g~~~~c~~o"~~.:~-~~s~,.. -"·1 -Deadline for applying is Wednesday, September 15. ·---· -·--_! 
,~.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
The Observer Wednesday, September 8, 1982-page 14 
----------------------------------------------------------~==----~ 
At U.S. Open 

Martina upset by doubles partner 
NEW YORK (AP) -Top-seeded Martina Navratilova was denied. a shot at the Grand Slam and a $500,000 bonus Tuesday when she was upset by her doubles partner, Pam Shriver, 1-6 7-6,6-2 in the quar­terfinals of the U.S. Open Tennis Championships. 
It was only the second loss this year for Navratilova, who has. dominated women's tennis, and stopped a 4I-match winning streak. 
In another upset, Rodney Harmon surprised eighth-seeded Eliot Teltscher 6-4, 4-6, 6-3, 3·6, 7-6 in a men's fourth-round match. 
"She had all the pessure on her," the seventh-seeded Shriver said of the Czechoslovakian-bom left­bander. ~·i feel sorry for her, but I'M happy for myself, ofcourse." 
Also advancng into the quacter­firials was fourh-seeded Guillermo Vilas, who outlasted hard-serving Steve Denton, the No. I2 seed, 3-6, 4-6, 6-3, 7-6, 6-3. 
In a night match, veteran Hie Nastase of Romania met second-seeded Jimmy Connors, with the winner to face Harmon, ofSouthern Methodist University, the nation's top-ranked collegiate player this 
year. 
Navratilova won the first set in I 7 minutes as she broke the 20-year-old Shriver in the fourth and sixth games. Navratilova, who had reached the quarters without losing a set, appeared to be heading for the semifinals when she broke Shriver in the ninth game of the second set for a 5-4 lead. 
But Shriver broke back in the I Oth game and fought off a break point in the IIth game before holding serve. 
After  Navratilova  held  serve  to  
send  the  second  set  into  a  
tiebreaker,  Shriver  lost  the  first  

point when she netted a forehand volley, then quickly pulled into a 2-I lead as Navratilova netted the ball twice. 
But Shriver double-faulted to even the score, then she again took the lead when Navratilova found the net with a forehand volley. 
The tiebreaker then went on serve as Shriver won 7-5, tying the match at I-1. ­
In the third set, the two held serve until the fifth game, when two un­forced errors gave Shriver a 30-0 lead. A forehand down the line made it 40-0 before Navratilova took the next two points. 

But Shriver broke her opponent 
when Navratilova's forehand off a 
service return sailed long. 
The Lutherville, Md., player, who reached the final here in I978, losing to Chris Evert, before shoul­der trouble hampered her the next two years, broke Navratilova again in the seventh game, again at 30, for a 5-2 lead. 
Navratilova, who had won the last three Grand Slam tournaments -the Australian and French Opens, and Wimbledon -had a break point, at 40-30, in the eighth game, but a cross-court backhand was wide, bringing the score to deuce. 
F'ormer Card great Boyer dead at 51 
ST. LOUIS (AP) -Ken Boyer 
btlttled cancer with the same hard­
nosed enthusiasm that he brought to 
baseball, his former St. Louis Car­
dinal teammates say. 
Boyer died yesterday morning at 
the age of 51. 
"He was a real battler, not a show­man like some players today," said former Cardinal Manager Red Schoendienst. "Kenny said yester­day that he believed he could come back from this. He went down fight­ing." 
Boyer, who managed the Car­dinals for two seasons, was considered the Cards' greatest third baseman. 
He played more than 2,000 games in his 15-year playing career, which included stints with three other teams. And he was a lifetime .287 hit­ter, a seven-time All-Star, and five 

times the Gold Glove Winner for 
third basemen. 
August A. Busch Jr., president of 
the Cardinals, said yesterday: "Ken 
Boyer gave the Cardinals and the 
baseball fans of St. Louis many great 
moments to remember, and we will 
remember him with admiration and 
respect." 
Bing Devine, who was general 
manager of the Cardinals during 
Boyer's years with the club, said 
Boyer never complained about his 
ailment. 
"He never complained about his illness or sat around wondering, 'Why me.'," Devine said. "That's the type ofplayer he was. He went about his job and never complained." 
Schoendienst called Boyer a "hard-nosed player who made 'em 
See BOYER, page 13 

Martina Navratilova 


lhe~====================================== 


T0 d~x•t==============w=e=d=n=e=s=d=ay='=s=e=p=te=m=b=e=r=s='=I=9=8=2==p=a=g=e=I=s
Doonesbury 



Spike's World 
ONE OF TH!:' FIRST THIN& yw 'vt c,o; iD Do wftfN YOJ e>n-f+fl<t= Is sn: 
WHAT T11f ~~~~~ 
~EVIOUS ~ INI-\M I+AVE" LE 
IN iHf~~~'-"'"' 
C./3"1/.../N 
The Daily Crossword 
©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 9/8/82 


ACROSS 33 Always, 1 Pleased to poets 5 Venture 34 SRO cus· 9 Social tomer 
beginners, 38 Turned on for short 39 Place for 13 Breathing experiments sound 40 -the line 14 Catchall 41 -de abbr. France 15 Smell, to 42 Give -try 
Britishers 43 Guessing 17 Not care-game word 18 Wet earth 47 A Linden 19 Part ofTNT 48 Kublai 20 Supervision Khan's 23 Sinew milieu 24 Certain 50 WW II 
element principal 26 Tutti·-52 Small cup 29 Studio 56 Of grand· 
items parents
Tuesday's Solution 


"••••••!••··················
l&niorBar SENIORS !

tGV-· • 
: Join us this Ftidny nt the :
! GRAND OPENING !
! OF THE NEW SENIOR BAR ! 
Garry Trudeau 


Jeb Cashin 
T.J. Wrobel 
Campus 
•3:25 
p.m. -Seminar, "Optimization of Isother­mal Bioreactors", Prof. Henry C. lim, Purdue Uni­versity, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall, Sponsored by Chemical Engineering Department 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Jurisprudence of the European Commission on Human Rights and Its Relationship to the Constitutional Law of Member States" Dr. Jochen Frowein, IOl Law School, Sponsored by Center for Civil and Human Rights 

•7, 
9, and II p.m. -FUm, "The Graduate", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by ND Glee Club, Sl.OO 

•7 
p.m. -Organizational Meeting, Notre Dame Science Quarterly Organizational Meeting, 341 Nieuwland Science Hall, Sponsored by Notre Dame Science Quarterly 

•7 
p.m. -Soccer, IU/PU Fon Wayne vs. Notre Dame, Canier Field 

•7:30 
p.m. -Meeting, Faculty Senate Meeting, 202CCE 

•8 
p.m. -Speaker, Fellowship of Christian Ath­letes Forum, Head Football Coach Gerry Faust, Library Lounge, All are Welcome 

•s 
p.m. -Auditions, WSND Auditions for news, sports, engineering, sales and production, Ar­chitecture Auditorium, Sponsored by WSND 

•9 
p.m. -Co-recreational Volleyball, Angela Athletic Facility 


T.V. Tonight 
6p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
8p.m. 8:30p.m. 9p.m. lOp.m. 
!0:30p.m. 
llp.m. 11:30p.m. 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 The MacNeiVLehrer Repon 
16  M*A*S*H  
22  Family Feud  
28  Tic Tac Dough  
34  Straight Talk  
16  Real People  
22  Special  Movie  Presentation  
"Scruples"  
28  The Phoenix  

34 The Hunter and the Hunted 
16 Facts ofille 
28 The Fall Guy 
34 The Doomsayers 
16 Love Sidney 
16 Quincy 
28 Dynasty 
34 Lucy in Disguise 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 The Dick Cavett Show 
16 Tonight Show 
22 CBS Late Movie: "I Never Promised You a Rose Garden" 28 ABC News Nightline 34 Captioned ABC News 28 Love Boat 16 Late Night with David Letterman 

~ 
.. 

59 Practical 
viewpoint 63 Compact 65 Expanse 66 Celebes ox 67 Pretext 68Anaward 69 Take-the 
chin 70 Preliminary procedure 71 Greek letters 72 "-but the brave..." 
DOWN 1 Metric unit 2 Zhlvago's 
friend 3 An Arkin 4 Leave 5 Unwanted 
award 6 "-to be 
born..." 7 Street show 8 A Verdugo 9 Puton 
10 Cavell and 
Head 11 Thetwo 12 Certain 16 Alignment 21 Hood's 
\veapons 22 Holiday 
symbol 25 Menlo Park initials 
26 Frankfurter 27 Gaucho's 
rope 
28 Citified 30 Rootor Yale 31 Purple 
color 32 Stone 
marker 35 -glance 36 Partner of 
neither 37 Goddess: Lat. 43 Letter sequence 44 Camel 
feature 45 Appalls 46 Lanchester 49 Improvises 51 Holdback 53 Huffy 54 Fortune­
telling card 55 Booster rocket 56 Pretty -:­picture 57 Electrical measure 58 "I cannot tell-" 60 Division 
word 61 Promptly 62 Neck hair 64 Codeword 
*******************************************1*
:student Union Presents: : i BEING THERE ~ 
i Sept. 9,10 Starring Peter Sellers: i Admission $1 ii Engineering Auditorium i i~ 7 '9: 15'11 -: 30 ! * ­
•*****~************************************** 
Wednesday, September 8, 1982-page 16 
Pennant races tighten up in both leagues 

The Brewers now lead the Orioles 
by three, and the Red Sox by four 
games. 
Over in the West, the Chicago 
Quarterback derby 
No photo finish ; Kiel wirts easily 
White Sox suddenly found them­
.. 
By DAVE DZIEDZIC 

AssociateSports Editor 
Question: What do Notre Dame and the Los Angeles Rams have in common? Answer: An annual quar­terback controversy. 
That used to be the case. But, like the Rams, the Irish do not have a quarterback controversy this year. Blair Kiel is the man. Period. 
"There's no question Blair has the job," says Coach Gerry Faust. "I think that will help him play with more confidence and poise." 

The confidence and poise may be crucial, considering that Kiel is learninganother new passing game. 
1t's a totally new system, andwe have alotofwork to do.' 

The man behind the new system is Quarterback Coach Ron Hudson. Hired by the Irish last spring after three seasons at UCLA, Hudson has been hard at work with Kiel and the other Irish quarterbacks. 
Hudson, who worked at California under Mike White (now head coach at Illinois) is well-versed in all facets of the passing game. He's designed a system that he hopes will utilize the 
, talents ofKiel and his receivers. 
"It's a totally new system, and we still have a lot of work to do," says Hudson. "But Blair has progressed well until now and we expect him to continue progressing." 
According to Hudson, this year's passing game "will be completely different from last year's." Different formations and more complicated pass routes will be used. But most importantly, the system will high­light the skills of tight end Tony Hunter. 
"The big difference between this year's passing game and last year's is the fact that Hunter will stay at tight end," says Hudson. Since Hunter was called on to play three positions ­wingback, flanker and tight end ­
~ last season, he was never able to find a home in the offense. "We'll be run­ning more short patterns in order to use Tony," Hudson says. "He can be very effective." 
Besides helping him learn a new system, Hudson has also tutored Kiel in other facets ofthe game. The main criticism of Kiel over the past two years has been his lack of a good throwing touch. According to Hud­son, Kiel has improved in this area. "We run touch drills every practice, and Blair improves daily," he says. 
Kiel ( 6-1, 199) has started most of Notre Dame's games over the past two seasons, and Hudson says thiit his experience shows. "He's finding 
_ the secondary receivers better now," says Hudson. "He's following the pass progression and making decisions while on his feet." 
For those who really miss an Irish 

quarterback controversy, one may 
be found when examining Kiel's 
back-ups. 
Ken Karcher and Jim O'Hara are listed behind Kiel. Or O'Hara and Karcher. 
Karcher, a 6-2, 204•pound· sopho­
more, played four varsity games last 
season but did not attempt a pass. A 
highly-touted freshman last year, 
Karcher has yet to live up to his bil­
ling. 
O'Hara, a 6-1, 188-pound senior, 
earned a football scholarship this 
season after three years as a walk-on. 
O'Hara is known as a heady quarter­
back who seldom makes mistakes, 

but his lack of size is considered a rrutin obstacle. 
So who's the number two quarter­back? "We'll find out after the scrimmage," says Hudson, referring to today's practice. "Both of them have very good arms and are capable ofplaying for Notre Dame. We'll see wllo comes through with the big play. It'll be a winner-take-all situa­tion." 
Kevin Smith and Todd Lezon are listed behind the top three quarter­backs. Smith, a 6-5 205-pound junior, worked with the junior var­sity last season. Lezon, a 6-4, 200­pound freshman, was chosen to the Adidas/Scholastic Coach prep All­America team. "Lezon and Smith both need more experience," Hud­son says. "The more they play, the 
better they'll get. 
As far as Hudson is concerned, all 
of his quarterbacks are making a dif­
ficult transition. "It will take time for 




Erratum 
In yesterday's edition, The Ob­server made an erroneous reference to the reason for Lut­her Bradley's leaving Notre Dame in 1974. The Observer regrets the error, and apologizes for any misunderstanding caused by the mistake. 


Kevin Smith 

The baseball races tightened in all four divisions last night, as the season entered the home stretch. 
In the American League East, Mil­waukee got its first win out ofnewly­acquired Don Sutton, and the Brewers maintained their lead over Baltimore and Boston. The Orioles were in New York, where Mike 
Flanagan hurled his fifth straight 
win, a 7-2 triumph over the Yankees. 
The Red Sox, meanwhile, were 
losing to the Cleveland Indians in 
ten innings on Alan Bannister's 
bases-loaded single. 
selves back in the race. Chicago downed California 7-4, and moved
everyone to get accustomed to the within four and a half games of the
new system. I would fedmore confi­top. The Division leader, Kansas
dent if they all would have played two seasons under this system." 
City, lost as well, 5-2, to Seattle. But at least we know who has the 
That leavc;s the Royals one game job. in front ofthe Angels. 
In the ·National League, the Phillies crept a little closer to their Eastern Division rivals, the St. Louis Cardinals. Philadelphia had to come from behond with two out in the ninth to down the Chicago Cubs, 7­5, at Wrigley Field. Garry Maddox delivered the game winner in that one. In St. Louis, the Expos needed just six hits to beat the Cardinals, 7­4, but two ofthem were home runs. 
The Cards now have just a one game lead over the Phils. 
In the West, the Los Angeles Dodgers once again took over the lead. Dusty Baker was the hero as the Dodgers topped the Cincinnati Reds 8-4. Baker had four RBI's. The Braves, meanwhile, were losing to the Giants in Atlanta. Chili Davis and Reggie Smith had homers to give San Francisco a 3-2 win. 
L.A. now has a slim half-game mar­gin over Atlanta. 
Baseball action from around the league is summarized on page 12 of today's Ob$erver. 

TheMitwaukee Brewers are hanging on to first place as baseball enters its final month. The 

Leftoversfrom the summer 
Like many of you, I'm a sports fanatic. I suppose my infawation with the world of sports had some bearing on my choice of a university. Notre Dame is a great place to get a "sports fix." 
Each May, however, college sports comes to a screeching halt. Each summer, therefore, I delve into professional sports to satisfy my habit. 
Due to the recent installation of cable television at 
my house, I was bombarded by many events and 
opinions this summer. Nawrally, I formed some 
opinions of my own ... 
The talk ofthe baseball world this summer was Rick­ey Henderson. The Oakland leftfielder literally shat­tered Lou Brock's single-season stolen base record. As of yesterday, Henderson had pilfered 124 bases. And the A's still have 24 games left this season. 
The baseball media, of course, jumped on the Hen­
derson bandwagon. ("Bandwagon" seems to be too 
mild a term· "locomotive" might be better.) All summer 
long, I've h~ard the praises ofthis crafty, lighting-quick 
thief He's bet:n hailed as "the most disruptive force in 
the game." Some people are nominating him for 
American League Most Valuable Player. 
Henderson's achievements are indeed noteworthy. 
Even though he probably won't reach his goal of one 
stolen base per game, he has demonstrated great 
stamina and durability. 
But does his feat (feet?) really deserve all this atten­
tion? Should he be considered an MVP candidate? I 
don't think so. 
Going into yesterday's game, the A's were 20 games 
out of first place and 20 games below . 500. This fact 
raises two qut:stions. First, are Henderson's thefts a help 
or a hindrance to the A's? And second, would he have 
amassed these impressive numbers if Oakland was a 
contender? 
Along with breaking the record for most stolen bases, Henderson also has been caught stealing more times than any other player in history. I've watched at least two games in which Henderson ran the A's right out of rallies. I'm sure that Henderson has also caused many rallies, but it appears that he shouldn't always have the green light. 
Because his team has been out of the pennant race since the beginning of)une, Oakland manager Billy Mar­tin has allowed Henderson to literally run wild. It seems that Martin's first priority has been letting Rickey run, rather than letting the team win. 

A's centerfielder Dwayne Murphy, who hits behind Henderson in the Oakland lineup. recently complained about Henderson's favorite-son treatment. It seems that Murphy is tired of helping Henderson pile up stolen bases while the A's keep losing. I don't blame him. 
I'm sick of hearing about the Oakland/Los Angeles Raider fiasco. But I'm even more sick of Pete Rozelle. 
Don't worry -I'm not going to lecture about free enterp'rise and the fact that AI Davis should be able to take his team wherever he wants. The recent actions of Rozelle, however, deserve complaining. 
Because Rozelle was unable to convince the United States courts (he exhausted all methods of appeal) that the NFL should be exempt from anti-trust legislation, he's trying to bribe Congress into helping him. He's dan­gling pro franchises in front ofsalivating Congressmen. And his loyal owners (AI Davis would not be classified as a loyal owner) are making large campaign contribu­tions to some candidates. 
All this in the hope ofchanging the rules ofthe game. 
There's another aspect of this saga that disturbs me. While spending millions of league dollars (which ul­timately will be paid by the fans in the form ofincreased ticket prices) in legal costs, Rozelle is ignoring the cur­rent NFL labor dispute. 
The players have authorized a strike at any time, and are threatening a mid-season walkout. 
It seems that Mr. Rozelle has his priorities mixed up. But maybe a players' strike is part of Rozelle's plan to foil Davis. If there's a strike, the Raiders won't be playing in Los Angeles. Or Oakland. Or anywhere. 









