.Rocket -page 6
' ' 

VOL. XVII, NO. 58 the im.kpenJcnt ~tudl·nt new~paper ~l-r\·ing notre dame and ~:tint man·.~ THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1982 
NDplacement reports 
Interviews remain strong 

By KATHLEEN DOYLE 
SeniorStaffReporter 
While some college placement services an: experiencing a decrease in the number of companies in­terested in interviewing and recruit­ing students, the Notre Dame Placement Bureau has not ex­perienced a reduction in corpora­tions scheduled to conduct on-campus interviews. 
Meanwhile, at Saint Mary's Col­lege, interview reductions are seen as a reflection of decreased hinng needs across the board. 
"We've heard about this national trend," said Paul Reynolds, a place­ment specialist. "Richard Willemin, Director of Placement, was at a placement conference in September and one of the topics of discussion was the decreasing number ofcom­panies sending recruiters to colleges and universities." 
"It seems that small liberal arts 
colleges and state universities are 
experiencing the most cut-backs. So 
far we haven't noticed a dramatic 
reduction here," Reynolds added. 
Between 500 and 600 companies 

per year schedule on-campus inter­
views at Notre Dame. "It is not un­
common for corporations to cancel. 
About 450 companies actually hold 
interviews," Reynolds said. "We had 
as many corporations sign up, but 
more have cancelled than previous­ly. Between 15 and 20 percent ofthe companies scheduled have decided not to hold interviews at Notre Dame." 
Some companies, such as Exxon, Atlantic Richfield, and Union Carbide have decided to send fewer recruiters to Notre Dame, thus decreasing the number of students to be interviewed. Other corpora­tions, however, including IBM, Chase-Manhattan Bank, Arthur An­dersen and Company Consulting Division, M. O'Neill Company, and Procter and Gamble have increased 'recession proof firms are increas­ing the number of recruiters they send here. These include financial institutions, investment and retail firms, and computer science and computer applications firms," Reynolds said. 
the  number of recruiters  sent  to  
Notre Dame.  
"We  have  found  that  certain  

"There have been fewer com­panies scheduled to interview in some of the technical areas such as 
See INTERVIEWS ,page 5 
Reagan/bishops conflict on nuclear arms strategy 
WASHINGTON (AP) The Reagan administration tangled head­on yesterday with the nation's Roman Catholic bishops about their projected condemnation of U.S. nuclear strategy, but the bishops were standing their ground. 
Several of the bishops said they saw no likelihood of White House pressure causing them to back away from their convictions. 
While welcoming the administra­tion's letter of objections, Cardinal John Krol of Philadelphia com­mented, "They're saying what they think and we're going to say what we 

ByANNE MONAS1YRSKI 
StaffReporter 
A tax-saving tuition plan at Washington University in St. Louis is helping students' families deal with recent financial aid cut-backs, but Brother Ryan Cafarelli, Notre Dame Director of Student Accounts, called the plan "a risky venture." The proposal "depends on the University investing at a good return," said Cafarelli. 
Under Washington's plan, students pay for all four years of tuition upon entering as freshmen at the first­year rate. In return, the students' families receive a tax deduction and a guarantee of no tuition increases. The University invests the sum and the earned interest counterbalances tuition increases that the University now pays. 
Parents who 
THURSDAYt.waT• 
borrow money to pay for the four years of tui­~l'lt$Ml-jFOCUS
~ 

tion can deduct the interest on the loan from their income tax returns. Students or their parents may borrow from lending institutions or directly from Washington University. 
Under Washington University's financing program families currently borrow at a thirteen percent interest rate. 
Vice Chancellor for Administration and FinanceJohn 
H. Biggs, who was instrumental in implementing the tuition plan at Washington University, said they have not lost any money since it began in 1977. "The default rate is zero," noted Biggs. 
Four hundred students are participating in the program. Because enrollment remains stable, the num­ber is not expected to increase, according to Biggs. 
Notre Dame Vice President for Business Affairs Thomas Mason said Notre Dame has never considered such a plan. Colleges and universities "come up with thes~~: different plans," said Mason. These plans do not suit the University's needs, according to Mason. 
A monthly tuition plan aoes operate at Notre Dame through Academic Management Services (AMS), a private institution that insures payments made to the University. 
Parents of students begin making monthly tuition payments in March for the following academic year to AMS, who in turn pays the University. Parents sign up yearly for all or part ofa given year. 
The AMS plan allows families to spread tuition cost over the greater part ofa year. 
Tax-saving programs similar to Washington Univer­sity's have spread to numerous colleges and universities across the nation. The University of Santa Clara has adopted a similar plan for this fall. 
Santa Clara Director of Student Financial Services 
Richard Toomey said, "The fear of Reagan's cutbacks in 
financial aid was the impetus in instituting the plan." 
The Guaranteed Tuition Plan, as Santa Clara's plan is called, freezes tuition costs at the rate when a student enrolls in the program. Santa Clara does not finance the prepaid tuition plan, unlike Washington University. In­stead families may borrow from six local lenders or other lenders throughout the nation. 
Twenty students are participating in Santa Clara's new plan, less than one percent of the 3500 students enrolled in the University. Two percent participation was expected according to Toomey, but the program was announced too late in the year for more to take advantage ofit. 
Toomey recommends the program for other schools that have a high percentage ofmiddle class families who would benefit most from the plan. "The risk is entirely on the institution," Toomey said, encouraging families of incoming freshmen to use their equity to their ad­vantage. 
Toomey expects the University to break even this year. The Guaranteed Tuition Plan will be reviewed yearly by the Board ofTrustees, but ifthe plan should be discontinued families already participating would not be affected. 
ByPATSAIN 
News Staff 
The monopoly is over ­MUSCO, innovator of the portable stadium lights, has a competitor in outdoor lighting on campus. 
Although it is unlikely that the collection of light bulbs sitting next to the library will ever be used to illuminate the stadium, or even as an alternative to floures­cent lights in classrooms, those who have an urge to study out­doors now have an ideal place to read. The ideal place is the west lawn of Memorial Library, where an 80-foot long "light sculpture" was erected earlier this week. The sculpture was the 

creation  ot  Robb  Mackie,  an  
artist-in-resid ence  at  Notre  
Dame.  

Mackie, who is new to the art department this year, describes himself as a "high-tech" person who "enjoys doing things openly and publicly." 
Mackie said the light sculpture, entitled "Dancer," was based upon his "offering to the seasons." 
"As I solved my technological problems," Mackie said, "the time became open, season-wise, for outside works. Most people think art only happens in confined spaces at specific times...it can happen at any time -like in a snowbank." 
See SCULPTURE ,page 5 think." 

Copies of the seven-page White House letter, signed by national security adviser William P. Clark but expressly speaking for President Reagan and other top officials, landed in a heap ofbrown envelopes at the bishops' meeting. 
One was addressed to each of the 287 participants in the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, which is weighing a pastoral letter denouncing nuclear warfare and some aspects of U.S. strategy. 
The White House accused the bis­hops of"fundamental misreadings of American policies" and of ignoring "far-reaching American proposals" to negotiate arms reductions with 
See CONFLICT ,page 4 

Tax savings are advantage 
Tuition plans termed 'risky' 

'News Brie/§ 
By The Obsert•er and Tbe Associated Press 
A·search committee for a new director of Notre Dame's Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry has been named by Professor Timothy O'Meara, provost. Chairing the committee is Father Richard P. McBrien, chairman of Crowley-O'Brien-Walter professor oftheology. Other members are Father Thomas E. Blantz, chairman and associate professor ofhistory; Sister Jean Lenz, adjunct instructor in theology, and Michael). Loux, chairman and professor ofphilosophy. The director's position was opened up when Monsig­nor John). Egan recently announced his intention to return to the Archdiocese of Chicago next April. The Institute coordinates the University's programs in service to the Catholic Church -The Cen­ter for Pastoral Liturgy, the Institute for Clergy Education, the Religious Leaders Program, the Center for Social Concerns, and Retreats International. -The Observer 
The Cushwa-Leighton Library staff at Saint 
Mary's is sponsoring an open house from 2 to 4 p.m. Sunday. The public is invited to attend. Tours of the $7 million facility, which opened its doors in early July, wm be provided throughout the after­noon. The library, which features a seating capacity of 540, houses a collection of more than 250,000 volumes, 775 bound periodicals and a rare book room that contains an outstanding Dante collection. Financed through private contributions, the library was designed by Evans Woollen Associates ofIndianapolis. -The Observer 
Lebanon Independence Day will be ob­
served today with a panel discussion on "Lebanon of the Future." The program, at 7:30 p.m. in the Center for Continuing Education, will feature numerous expert speakers, including Ambassador Fakhri Saghieyeli ofthe United Nations. -The Observer 
The Mishawaka, Ind., toll plaza, Exit 83, was opened yesterday as the first of six new interchanges to be built along the 157-mile Indiana Toll Road that spans from Ohio to Il­linois. The $5.9 million Mishawaka interchange, located northeast of the city, is the first step of the project which will be completed by spring 1985, said Robert Hardley, a spokesman for the Toll Road Commission. Lt. Gov. John M. Mutz and other state, county and local officials were on hand for the opening. -AP 
The Chrysler Corp.will resolve its differences with striking Canadian auto workers before the strike becomes dan­gerously prolonged, Chrysler vice-chairman Gerald Greenwald said yesterday. At a luncheon at Indiana University -Kokomo, Green­wald refused further comment on the strike by Canadian United Auto workers which has idled 4,600 U.S. Chrysler employees, including those at Indianapolis, New Castle and Kokomo. Green­wald said he has learned through the years that "when put to the test in anything difficult all of us bring common sense to the table... I hope we can see some economic reality injected into the talks." He said Chrysler officials don't believe sales will improve much next year. "We're keeping costs down and product program strong. We're ready but unfortunately the economy isn't yet. We'll find our way through the recession," Greenwald said. -AP 
Democrat Richard C. Bodine asked for a 
recount yesterday of votes cast in Elkhart (Ind.) County for the 3rd District Congressional race. Bodine, a state representative from Mishawaka, lost to Republican U.S. Rep. John P. Hiler in the Nov. 2 election. James Stevens, an Elkhart lawyer, filed Bodine's petition for a vote recount and a petition contesting the election in Elkhart Cir­cuit Court. "We want the recount done by hand," said Stevens. "We quite frankly are challenging the outcome of the election based on some unfortunate mistakes in the tallying of votes." In the 3rd Dis­trict race, Hiler ofLaPorte defeated Bodine by 9,000 votes in Elkhart County. But his victory margin in the entire district was only 4,000 votes. -AP 
An"anarchistpunkrock er" with safety pins in 
his ears was killed Thursday when the bomb he was trying to plant in a New Zealand government computer center exploded premature­ly, police in Wanganui reported. Police said they had not identified the youth, whose remains were thrown 70 yards by the force of the blast. The eight people on duty at the center escaped injury, but the explosion damaged the armored doors of the computer center, police said. The center holds police andjustice Department records, which authorities said were not harmed. Police said a tattoo on the dead man said: "this punk won't see 23 no future." A freshly painted sign in a public toilet opposite .the computer center said, "We have maintained a silence closely resembling stupidity -anarchy peace thinking." A can ofspray paint was found in the debris. -AP 
Increasing ClOUdineSS today an& mild. High in low 50s. Cloudy tonight and mild. A 30 percent chance ofrain. Low in low 40s. IW.n tomorrow with high in low to mid 50s. -AP 
Thursday, November 18, 1982-page 2 
Bishop's letter falls short 
ls the United States morally justifieJ in possessing 
nuclear weapons? Is it morally right to threaten civilian 
populations with instant incineration? Is the theory of 
nuclear deterrence and the committment to strike first 
if absolutely necessary ethically and morally justified? 
These are some of the serious and complex questions 
currently being hurled about Washington, D.C. as the 
National Conference of Catholic Bishops (NCCB) an­
nual convention enters its fourth and final day today. 
The herculean task facing the bishops is to enunciate 
clear and concise answers to perhaps the most difficult 
and perplexing moral issue ofmodern time. At the heart 
of the matter is the draft of a proposed pastoral letter 
aimed at the nation's 51 million Roman Catholics which 
attempt~ to address the moral and theological dimen­
sions of nuclear war. After changes are made in the let­
ter by the 285 bishops it will be returned to the 
committee that drafted it to be completed by next 
spring. It will then act as a source of guidance to Cat­
holics regarding the nuclear issue. 
The draft does not try to hide the bishops' moral dis­
dain and abhorrence regarding the use ofnuclear arms. 
It condemns nuclear war and the first use of nuclear 
weapons and calls for a bi-lateral freeze of nuclear ar­
senals. The bishops are still 
debating whether or not to condemn the use of nuclear · arms for reasons of deter­
rence. These are certainly 
worthy and necessary 
proposals, but the reasoning 
behind them is not sound 
and the consequences of 
blindly rushing toward com­
pliance of them could spell 
out disaster for the Western 
world. 
The issues and ramifica­

tions ofthis serious dilemma 
are extremely complex, yet 
the letter attempts to treat 
the issue as cut and dried by 
offering definitive answers 
for nebulous questions. 
For example, the letter 

states "We (NCCB) have judged immoral even the 
threat to use nuclear weapons," even for reasons of 
deterrence previously mentioned. This latter statement 
is a very serious and dangerous shortcoming of the let­
ter. The possession of nuclear arms for deterrence has 
been a cornerstone of U.S. policy ever since the insane 
arms race with the Russians began back in the early 50's. 
The Western European nations would be especially vul­
nerable to a Warsaw Pact invasion if the Kremlin knew 
there would be no nuclear retaliation. TheWarsaw Pact 
countries are far superior to their western neighbors in 
terms offirepower and militia. The West needs nuclear 
weapons to insure its security. 
The bishops are concerned with the moral aspects of 
a nuclear war. But what about the moral aspects of 
bowing down to Communist Russia or of allowing a 
power-hungry foreign power, which does not possess the same basic moral standards as the West, to invade a country? The letter does not address the problem ofthe Soviet Union at all. If the West lets its guard down by refusing to use nuclear weapons as a deterrent or in 
The Observer 

Design Editor .... Diodie Murphy, Ourodh Rillieur Design Assistants ................ Ken Cerabona Sarah Hamilton Layout Staff. ............... Maure.-n Bruhe Typesetters ........................................ Reggie 
Toni Rutherford News Editor ...................... Mark Worscheh Copy Editor .........................jeff Harrington B&T La_)•out............................... Ed Konrady Editorials Layout....................... Tim Neely Sports Copy Editor .............. Chris Needles Typist ................................ Mary Beth Porter AdDesign ................. l.oogootee l.ighcning Photographer ....................... Rachd Bloum Guest Appeara,ces ...........................Smerd 
You've got to have a dream. 
Ifyou don't have a dream, How you gonna have a dream come true? 
The Observer !USPS 598 920) rs published Mpnday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except durrng exam and vacatron perrods The Observer rs publrshed by the students of Notre Dame and Sarnt Marys Col· 
lege Subscrrptrons may be purchased for $25 per year t$15 per semester) by wrrtrng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lndrana 46556 
The Observer rs a member of The Associated Press Alt reproductron rrghts are reserved 
Second class postage pard at Notre Dame. lndrana 46556 


case of imminent defeat during a conventional war, there will be nothing to stop the Russian leadership. Through taking advantage of the West's commitment not to use nuclear arms, the Russian government has annihilated millions ofits own people, used slave labor on such "beneficial" projects as the Siberian-European natural gas pipeline and imprisoned its handful ofpeace activists. 
Even St. Augustine's "just war" theory, accepted by Pope John Paul II, seems to conflict with the bishops' letter. Augustine said that force is justified "to restrain those who would harm the innocent." This is consistent with America's policy ofdeterrence. 
I am certainly not in favor ofa nuclear war no matter 
how limited. What I disagree with is the bishops' im­practical and idealistic ap­proach to this delicate and potentially disastrous issue. We all know that anything that possesses the terrible capability to wipe out entire nations in seconds is im­moral. President Reagan and his advisers know it too. But we also have a moral obliga­tion to do what is necessary to protect ourselves from whomever is seen as the ag­gressor. Proclaiming nuclear weapons immoral is not going to lead to a freeze or a reduction in arsenals. At the bargaining table the Americans and Russians aren't talking about the moral ramifications of the 
possession or use ofnuclear arms. I don't think the Rus­sian leadership knows too much about morals. What they're talking about is SS-20's, Pershing ll's, the Backfire bomber and submarine-launched missiles. They're talking about survival. 
The present nuclear situation is absolute madness. Every attempt must be made to reduce the threat of nuclear war and for their strong and tireless efforts the NCCB deserves the highest accolades. But moral con­sciousness on the part ofthe good guys (that's us) is not going to reduce the threat of nuclear war. Serious strategic negotiations resulting in mutually verifiable treaties will reduce the threat. 
If the U.S. government were to follow the tenets put forth in the bishops' letter, the future peace ofthe world might become even more precarious. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views ofthe author, and do not necessarily represent the views ofThe Observeror its editorial board. 



The Observer Thursday, November 18, 1982-page 3 
Activities throughout today 
$1,200expectedfrom fast at SMC 

Professor Paul Roche addresses his audience in the Annenberg Auditorium yesterday at the beginning ofhis talk andfilm discus­sion "Duncan Grant: Painter of Bloomsbury." (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
NURSE INTERNSHIP 
Designed Especially For The New RN Graduate 
Grant Hospital's well-developed Internship Program offers a unfque opportunity to the new RN graduate. This 3-month pro­gram is individualized within a semi-structured medical/surgical general rotation. 
The internship attempts to bridge the gap between academia and 
,_the working world. Opportunities are offered to participate in observational experienCE! i1 f1llied nursing departments. An 8-week, ongoing Reality Shock group provides further support for the 'new graduate. Clinical specialty areas are also available for consideration during this internship period. We are now taking applications for our future internships which will be held: 
JANUARY 17, 1983 JUNE 20, 1983 JULY 25, 19.83 SEPTEMBER 12, 1983 
For more information on this unique program call COLLECT: 
Nurse Recruitment (312) 883-5502 

I~ Hospital
IllG.-an p 

of Chicago 
550 W. Webster Chicago, IL 60614 

An Equal Opportunity Employer MIF 

ByTONI RUTHERFORD 
StaffReporter 
Approximately 51,200 is ex­pected from the "Fast for a World Harvest" predicted Erin Flood, stu­dent coordinator of the annual pre­Thanksgiving event at Saint Mary's, yesterday. 
Oxfam America is sponsoring the fast and will receive a portion of the proceeds in order to help fund self­help programs in poor regions of seventeen countries. 
More than 1,000 people at Saint Mary's have signed up for the fast which opened last night at 9:30 with a prayer meeting at the St. Mary's CluJ:>house. Flood noted that this year's total, which includes 781 resi­dent students a~ aJ>out 250 faculty, administration, staff, Sisters of the Holy Cross and off-campus students, is a large increase over last year's to· tal ofabout 600 participants. 
The Casters will give up today's three meals while taking part in the many activities planned for the day. These activities are an attempt to bring participants together and take their minds off of meals through prayer, discussion and entertain-
U.S.-Latin relations not to improve.· Lowenthal 
ByBOBJOHNSON 
.VewsStaff 
Recent United State~· administra­

tions have not implemented any ef. 
fn·tive measures to better l'.S.-Latin 
American relations, and it appears 
that the U.S. will not do so in the 
future. This was the message of Dr. 
Abraham Lowenthal yesterday in a 
lecture entitled .. Ronald Reagan and 
Latin America: Coping with 
Hegemony Lost." 
Both the Carter and Reagan ad· 

ministrations have started out 
promising to carry out innovative 
programs to improve U.S.-Latin 
American relations. Both times. 
however. the so-called "new" 
programs have drifted hack to the 
old U.S. policy of treating Latin 
America as a lesser priority. 
. Lowenthal, secretary of the Latin '.-'-rrierican Program of the Wilson 
Center in Washington, D.C., 
analogized this drift by saying, 
"Whatever the United States has 
chosen on one branch, it has found 
itself moving back to the trunk." 
One of the reasons why new 

American policy always seems to 
fade out is because of the multi· 
plicity of non-governmental forces 
which evade control by the ad­
ministration, said Lowenthal. 
He added that another problem 

with U.S.-Latin American relations is 
the U.S. failure to realize the effect 
which some ofits actions have upon 
these countries. Just a one percent 
fluctuation in the U.S. interest rate 
can result in a $400-5500 million 
deficit for Brazil, cited Lowenthal. 
Lowenthal said that "all these il­

lustrate a gravitation to previous 
policies." Since the U.S. does not ap­
pear to be putting any more weight 
on the Latin American relations 
there is little hope for improvement 

Dr. Abraham Lowenthal 

r············~ 
: Buy : .: Observer:
:

!Classifiedsi 
~·············•· 
m the coming years. 

Lowenthal, founder of the Wilson Center at the Smithsonian Institute, lectured to a crowd of about sixty· five people in Hayes-Healy Center. He is a recognized scholar on all areas of Latin American policy and has written for numerous newspapers. 
ment, Flood said. 
"These activities are not limited to fasters," stressed Flood. "We realize that there are many who can't fast and we would like them to join us through the day's activities." 
The day's activities include:  
Stapleton Lounge  
•8:45 a.m. -Prayer •11:30 -Film: "The Choice Yours" •11:45-Film: "I Want to Live" •12: 15 ~ Talk: Tom Reid,  is of  

Campus Ministry, on "Fasting as an Act of Faith, Hope, and Love" 
•4:30-Film: 
"The Choice is Yours' 

•4:45 
-Film: "The Longest Stride" 

•5:15-Talk: 
Tom Reid, ofCampus Ministry, on "Fasting as an Act of Faith, Hope, and Love" 

•7:
15 -Recording of "Jesus Christ i Superstar·· 


St. Mary's Clubhouse 

•9:30 -Closing Liturgy 
After the liturgy a simple meal and an opportunity for discussion among all participants is scheduled. 

THE DEADLINE FOR RECEIPT OF STUDENT SUMMER JOB APPLICATIONS IS 
FRIDAY,NOV. 19 
THE FORMS ARE 
AVAILABLE AT THE ALUMNI oFFICE 201 ADM. BLDG 
I 

CALL TODAY FOR GUARANTEED RESERVATIONS 
Clip and save this schedule for easy travel planning! To O'Hare FromO'Hare 
LEAVE This Col. This Col ARRIVE NOTRE Chicago Chicago NOTRE. DAME Time Time DAME BUS ARRIVE LEAVE BUS SHELTER O'HARE O'HARE SHELTER 
4:30a.m. 6:10a.m. B:30 a.m. 12:00 p.m. 6:30a.m. 8:15a.m. 10:30 a.m. 2:00p.m. 8:30a.m. 10:15 a.m. 12:30 p.m. 4:00p.m. 10:30 a.m. 12:15 p.m. 2:30p.m. 6:00p.m. 12:30 p.m. 2:15p.m. 4:30p.m. 8:00p.m. 
2:30p.m. 4:15p.m. 6:30p.m. 10:00 p.m. 4:30p.m. 6:15p.m. 8:30p.m. 12:00 a.m. 6:30p.m. 8:15p.m. 11:00 p.m. 2:30a.m. 
SOUTH BEND TIMES UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED. EFFECTIV~ 10/31/82. CALL FOR COMPLETE LIST OF PICKUP POINTS & TIMES. 
FOR RESERVATIONS 
(119) 155-3068 
OR CALL YOUR 
TRAVEL AGENT. 
' 

---------------.. ·--------­
The Observer Thursday, November 18, 1982 page 4 
Space shuttle-follow up 
Faulty spacesuits examined 

JOHNSON SPACE CENTER, HOUSTON (AP) -Sleuthing en­gineers started tests yesterday to determine why two spacesuits failed and forced cancellation of a crucial spacewalk during the shuttle's fifth flight. 
A team of engineers at the Johnson Space Center organized a crash investigation of two unrelated but essential components that failed Monday, just as Columbia astronauts Joe Allen and Bill Lenoir were preparing to test the new type of suits in space for the first time. 
"There is a great sense of urgency to solve this problem because there may be similar flaws in suits that are to be used on other missions," said a 
Johnson Space Center spokesman. 
Richard A. Colonna, a Johnson Space Center executive who heads the team, said they should identify the problem in a week and have 
recommendations  within  two  
weeks  that  could  affect  future  
spacewalks.  

The suits, developed at a cost of about S2 million each for use on the shuttle, have yet to be proven on a spacewalk. Future missions call for extensive use of the suits in space. There are plans for suited astronauts to repair broken satellites and to as­semble large structures in orbit. 
Allen, Lenoir, and crewmates Vance Brand and Bob Overmyer landed Columbia at Edwards Air Force Base in California early Tues­day morning, completing a five-day mission that was flawed only by the space suit problem. 
The astronauts launched two 
continuedfrom page 1 
the Soviet Union. 
Bishop Raymond A. Lucker of New Ulm, Minn., commented, "They (members of the Reagan administra­tion) say they've made the effort, but we're not convinced and it's not enough. It's rhetoric." 
"We've known we are on very dif­ferent wave lengths on the whole question," said Bishop Joseph F. Gossman of Raleigh, N.C. 
He said the White House letter would get "careful consideration," but pointed out that "we're familiar with the issues raised in the Jetter" since administration officials previously had presented those 
Presenting High Bias II and the Ultimate Tape Guarantee. 
Memorex presents High Bias II, a tape so extraordinary, we're going to guarantee it forever. 
We'll guarantee life-like sound. 
Because Permapass:· our unique oxide bonding process, locks each oxide particle-each musical detail-onto the tape. So music stays live. 
Notjust the lst pley. Or the lOOOth. Butforever. 
We'll ruarantee the cassette. 
Every faCet ofour cassette is engineered to protect the tape. Our waved-wafer improves tape-wind. Silicone-treated rollers insure smooth, precise tape alignment. Housing is made strongby a design unique to Memorex. 
We'll guarantee them forever. 
Ifyou are ever dissatisfied with Memore.x High Bias II, mail us the tape andweTI replace it free. 
satellites for paying customers ro in­itiate an era of commercial cargo hauling by the shuttle. 
"We deliver" was the mission motto, and officials said that was ac­complished flawlessly. Two com­munications satellites launched by the astronauts are in orbit and working normally, officiab said. 
••• Conflict 
views. 

"We're not meeting to debate the administration," he said. "Our purpose is to hear what the bishops have to say about it. But we've invited comments and are open to further dialogue." 
The bishops' document calls for a nuclear freeze, condemns as im­moral any threat or intention to usc nuclear weapons and says even pos­session of them as a deterrent is tolerable only if progress is being made toward mutual disarmament. 
The document also condemns any first use of nuclear weapons and their targeting on bases near popula­tion centers -both ofthese options are now espoused in U.S. nuclear strategy. 

RESTAURANT 

15 REASONS: 
Broiled Seafood Platter Charbroiled Halibut Steak Charbroiled Salmon Shrimp De Johnge Charbroiled Swordfish Walleye Pike Red Snapper Trout Ala Mer Stuffed Flounder New England Scrod Rock Lobster Pan Fried Rainbow Trout Gulf Coast Shrimp Stuffed Shrimp Pan Fried Frog Legs 
5:30 Nightly All Day Sunday 100 Center Complex 
700 L.W.W•• Mishawaka 259-9925 
YOU'll fOREVER lUNDEII, 
IS ITliVI,
DR IS IT -~ .._·
MEMOREX~ 

The Observer Thursday, November 18, 1982 -page 5 
• • • Interview-s 

Father Edward O'Connor makes a point during his Thomas More Society-sponsored lecture last night. O'Connor discussed the concept of the infallibility of the Church and why its teachings
... Sculpture 
must be considered infallible. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
continuedfrom page 1 
electrical engineering and mechani­cal engineering. But these fields are still strong," he rroted. 
Twenty five companies which have never held on-campu~ inter­views at Notre Dame or have not done so in recent years have been added to the interview schedule for this year. 
"We think recruiters have con­

tinued coming to Notre Dame be­
cause we have quality students. 
Most students seem not only to ex­
cel academically, but to participate 
in extra-curricular activities," 
Reynolds said. "Usually a Notre 
Dame student participated in extra­
curricular activities in high school and has continued to do so here. This makes him well-rounded. Also recruiters often tell us they are impressed by the ability of Notre Dame students to articulate and communicate well." 
The Notre Dame Placement Bureau plans to present more semi­nars on various subjects, including interviewing skills, job search, and the mail campaign technique of seeking employment. The pla<'e­ment office also will continue to sug­gest that students use the university faculty as well as alumni to establish contacts while job-hunting. 
The Counseling and Career Development Center at St. Mary's College reports that it is experienc­ing a definite reduction in on-campus recruiters sent by corporations. 

"Hiring needs are down across­the-board," said Kathleen Farrar, As­sistant Director of the Counseling and Career Development Center at St. Mary's College. "This is true even in the technical area~. There are· fewer interviews even in those heavily recruite .d fields such as math and chemistry." 
"We are trying to take up the slack in our Job Search Program," Farrar added. "We arc encouraging stu­dents to use an alternative method of seeking employment by utilizing the alumnae network. We want the students to get the job they've been working for," Reynolds said. 

cent tubes for his present work sic value. This value creates an ex­
continuedfrom page 1 
come from "Dinosaur." pression -much like a voice can The light sculpture was also a tes­"Dancer" has a total of 45 eight­sing or talk." ting ground for Mackie's "modular" foot flourescent lights held together Mackie says that "Dancer" is an il­system of building. The light by circular joints. When lit at night, lustration of the 
.. sculpture is composed of units, each the light sculpture requires only "anamorphic"quality of emmitted of which is about 10 to 20 feet in four to five watts ofpower provided light -depending upon one's posi­length. The units are connected by by a small transformer. Mackit: tion, the depth of the sculpture 
sliding joints, which permit shifting claims that one transformer is changes. Mackie pointed out that 
in the structure. Mackie claims that enough to power 100 feet oftubes. when the light sculpture is seen "Dancer" can withstand a 30 mph The structure's location on the from the fieldhousc, it appears only wind without breaking. west lawn ofthe library not only lets three feet deep, when it really is 
Because of the success of his sys­Mackie provide electricity for the nearlv twentv. tem of moveable joints, Mackie now lights from the fieldhouse, but also He.said that he hopes to pur more ~ays that linear runs ofovt:r 100 feet benefits from the number of people sculptures in other places around are possible, even if the structure is who use the library. the campus. "Every quad here has a supported in the air. According to Mackie, even spot that is right for a light 
The largest light sculpture though light has been around sculpture." created by Mackie, called "forever," it is usually thought of as "Dinosaur," was 130 feet long and illumination, instead of an art form. Editor's note: The photo at the 29 feet high, and dipped to within "Emitted light is like the human beginning of this story• was taken four feet of the ground. The floures-voice," Mackie said. "It has an intrin-by Paul Cifare//i. 
AUTHENTIC MEXICAN FOOD 
ELMATADOR 
MEXICAN RESTAURANT IN SOUTH BEND 2120 W. WESTERN AVE. 
288 3600 •••• No•••••••••••••No••••• 
Ho~rs: ~FREE FANTA_STIC VALU~ FREE ~ 
Tues, Wed, z Buy One Dmner at Reg. Pnce ~ Thurs11-9 ~· ELMATADOR GetSecondDinner ELMATADOR ~ ;J 2120 w. WESTERN 2120 w. WESTERN
FREE s
Fri, Sat 8 SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND u 
11-11 I 
•• EXPIRES11-25·82 DINE-INORCARRY-OUT NO LIMIT I ~~~~~~~ NDTHIS COUPON NOT GOOD WITH ANY OTHER SPECIAL NO ~ I •••••••••••••••••••• • 
Thursday is Tankard Night in the Terrace Lounge at the South Bend Marriott! South Bend's largest 
34 oz. tankard of beer i~ only 
$4.00 
and YOU KEEP THE SOUVENIR GLASS TANKARD! Refills every weekday from 4 -7 p.m. (on Thursdays until closing) are just $2.00! 
·'l!/I 
}

~ The Place to Be! 123 N. St. Joseph St., South Bend (219) 234-2000 
Wygant Floral CO.Inc. 327 lincolnway 
232-3354. 

--gQowe~ fprr aQQ occa~Long ~~ 
Come in and browse 
theButleR's pantRy 
CONVENEINT STORE 
ConvrnJrntanb always atyOURS€RVIC€-OPEN lATE NIGHT HOURS 
aRcaoe 

5 fon aoollaR 
Oonkey konq th€€n0 ms.pacman 
t€mp€st att€npok€~ C€nttp€0€ 
•

: BRinG this ao 1n foR 3 fRee tokens :
.................................. 

HEY G-4NG 
NOT WHfN WE

601NG TO THIN)( Wit> 
THE HOC~EY ~r.S.S"t"Hf 
QAME?_ ~UH? GYROS AT HAL..F
CHANCE TO 

Business & TechnologyT)mrsday,November18, 1982-page 6 
Economic Update 
Nearly one-third ofthe productionlines 
at U.S. factories stood idle last month as the recession deepened, in what one economist called a "near depression." The 68.4 percent factory-use rate reported yesterday was the worst on record. In an­other economic development, the Commerce Department said housing starts by U.S. builders rose one percent in October. That was only a modest increase -to an annual rate of 1.12 million units ­but the same report provided better news in the form of a second straight jump in building permits for future construction. Permits rose to an annual rate of 1.18 million, up 17.7 percent from Septem­ber and up a full 60 percent from October oflast year -good news since permits indicate how well builders should be doing in coming months. Economists say better times for home builders could also help bring recovery for the overall economy. -AP 
all Street Update 
The stock marketchalked up a broad gain yesterday, reversing the slide ofthe past three sessions. Financial services, bank and retailing stocks were among the leaders of the rally. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials, which had fallen 46.73 points in the last three trading days, climbed 19.50 to 1,027.50. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 84.44 million shares, down from 
102.91 million Tuesday. Advancing issues outnumbered declines by almost three to one on the Big Board, and the NYSE's composite index rose .37 to 79.67. Nationwide turnover in NYSE-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 96.46 million shares. -AP 
JJe==•"Papa& Mama Do The Cookingr"111•••11\ Francesco's Famiglia 277-6155 Restaurant 277-6156 
featuring 
FOUR SEASONS PIZZA The O~sintd ~fJutltern Recipe Lasagna, Home-made Spaghetti, All V . . f Sa d · h 
Chicken Cacciatori, Veal Parmigiana anebes o n WIC es 
(Francesco was chef for Holy Cross Fathersfor 21yrs.) 
1636 N. Ironwood 
•-----•"WE DELIVER"
\!:====--~roprietor: Francesco ea=.t~a;n~za;.nri·tui;;;;;;;;!l 
Build your future with an MBAfrom liT 
The liT/MBA Advantages: 
Computer based management education for the Financial, 
Producing and Service Industries.
• 

Afull-time faculty of professional educators experienced in 
real world applications. 

Unique MBA specializations in Information Resources 
Management and Industrial Management. 
MBA specializations in Finance, Marketing, Accounting and 
• 
Human Resources Management. 
2convenient locations: Downtown at 77 South Wacker and Main Campus at 31st and State. Easy parking at both. 
•Part-time and full-time admissions. 
Dr. Nathan Keith, Assistant Dean Call Ill liT School of Business Administration 
or ··-10 West 31 Street, Chicago, IL 60616 write 312/567-5104 
Spring semester begins on Jan. 17, 1983, with registration on Jan. 12. 
liT is an 'G""i opportunity educator. 
Please send more information on liT's MBA program to: 
~-----------------------------------­
Street--------------------­
City------------State-----------­
Zip-----------Daytime phone-------------­
.....
~

........... _.....~~·..-: ..·......-...·.-..-iiioiii-----liiiio----·.~·-------oiiiio-------iiioilliiioi_____________________________.... 
Space Services, Inc. 
u~s~ company·launches rocket 
sibility and, three years later, teamed
It looked like a country picnic: minutes after launch. some 300 people munching shrimp, But to its backers, the mission was with a young, self-taught rocket en· 
sandwiches and watermelon under a the equal of the Wright brothers' gineer named Gary Hudson to build striped awning while cattle grazed flight at Kitty Hawk or Lindbergh's a rocket from off-the-shelf parts. 
in the distance. Nearby, a generator crossing of the Atl-antic. It proved Hannah, whose money came from chugged monotonously, providing that private companies, as well as real estate, assembled a group of in­
electricity to a cluster of temporary 
governments, could master space vestors that included many Texas buildings. flight and exploit space commercial­oilmen to found SSI. It was not food or good company ly. The project was making rapid that had attracted this crowd to Moreover, it would help SSI raise headway when the first space money to launch the first private vehicle, a $1.2 million liquid-fueled
Matagorda Island, off the Texas coast. The trailers served as "mission satellitte in 1984. Donald ("Deke") rocket, exploded during an engine test in August 1981. 
control" for a 37-foot rocket stand­Slayton, the former astronaut who ing beside a makeshift gantry. served as flight director, said, "We "The day after we blew up that 
On this September day, it was 

hope to have a flight a month by rocket," Hannah recalls, "Chris Kraft scheduled to become the first space 
1987." (the head ofthe Johnson Space Cen­vehicle ever launched by an The events that led to this soaring ter) got permission from NASA to and equally soaring help us out." ANASA analyst studied
American company. performance ­rhetoric -began in 1976, when a the accident and turned in a report
The flight of the Conestoga I was that persuaded Hannah to abandon
an inauspicious voyage by Apollo, Houston millionaire named David 
Soyuz or space shuttle standards. Hannah Jr. read a magazine article volatile liquid fuels. The developers ofthe Conestoga I
The "no frills" rocket, built from that said space colonies might be 
surplus parts by Space Services Inc. commercially feasible. The article, concede that their rocket did not of America ( SSI) on a shoestring based on theories of the visionary break any technical ground. Its $2.5 million budget, climbed only Princeton professor Gerard O'Neill, design, including the use of the 
196 miles before falling -as 
inspired Hannah to think there Minuteman booster, was borrowed planned -into the Gulf of Mexico, might be profit in space. from the standard Aries rocket that 326 miles down range, 10 1/2 He set about researching the pos-has made 20 successful tlights in 22 
tries since the mid-1970s. The Con­estoga's flight served merely to test its payload and guidance systems. 
SSI's next rocket, the Conestoga 200, will also be free of technical surprises. The four solid-fuel stages will consist of commercial rocket engines made by United tech­nologies and the Thiokol Corp. 
The next Conestoga, Hannah says, could cost S20 million, but subse· quent flights should be able to put 500 pounds of satellite into a 500­mile-high orbit for about $5 million. 
At first glance, that does not seem to be much of a bargain. According to Barbara Stone, NASA's senior staff engineer for pricing, the shuttle will charge customers only 52.52 mil­lion next year to carry a 3,250­pound package (the smallest individual cargo allowed on the 
The 37Joot Conestoga I rocket, powered by an old Minuteman 65,000-pound-capacity shuttle) into booster, lifted offfrom a Texas cowposture in September. It was the orbit 180 miles high. first spacecraft ever launched by an American company. (Discover But the shuttle is 90 percent magazine photo byjohn Grossman) booked through 1986, and SSI of­
ficers hope to pick up business from firms that cannot wait. 
Still, SSI may be left out ofthe hot­test race in space today, the com­petition to put communications satellites into 22,300-mile-high geostationary orbits. At that height, the satellites circle the earth once every 24 hours, so that they appear to hang motionless in the sky ­ideal relay stations for telephone and television signals. NASA's space shuttle and the European Space Agency's Ariane rocket are battling 
Dine among the .-ntiques and to launch these satellites because, according to an Ariane repr esenta­
enjoy our view of the new downtown! 
tive, "that's where the money is." 
-DiscoverNews Service 

Reservations Appreciated 234-9000 
***************** 
121 South Niles South Bend 
:._ NEEDA. ~~ ! BAND? t/i:
t for parties, weddings, etc. : 
il coil... * 
Are you wondering about 
~ BANDS * 
when to get an MBA? 
: ; UNLIMITED :
Talk to us. 
~ ......,"*' : 
More and more, recent college graduates 
: 233-5727 :
think they should go straight into a job. We think that's not always the case. The 25% of our stu· dent body who has come without fulltime work 
'****************" 
experience agrees. Still, there arc 75% of our students who have worked fulltime for almost 
~0 C Happy Hour: 
three years, who think their experience has made all the difference in how they approach their 
~ Come Watch :
graduate management training. We'll be glad to discuss what you think. 
~ Air Force :· 
Our toll-free number is open and we're ready to 
il Get Bombed at ._
talk. Give us a~call. 
iC .. 800/847-2082 ~ 800/252-6326 
(Continental U.S.) ~ (New York State) 
: Sr. Bar : : Free Beer with : 
CORNELL UNIVERSITY GRADUATE SCHOOL 
il $2CO e il 
OF BU~INESS &. PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION 
il V r il iilii•isiiiMiiAiLiiOiTiiTiii"iAiiLiiLiii•iiTiHiiAiiCiAi.iiNiiYiii.i•iisisi3·1-~; Doors open at 1 :0~ 
~­


Thursday, November 18, 1982-page 7
Editorials 
Faust plays a phoney game 
Is Gerry Faust trying to isolate his players from the rest ofthe Notre Dame community? 
Recently the new "permanent" phone books were distributed to the members ofthe Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community. For the 
Tim Neely 
My Turn 
second year in a row, they are more noteworthy for what they donot contain than for what they do. 
Anyone here then may recall that last year several hundred students were missing from the original books because of a faulty com­puter program which inadvertently mis­alphabetized a few students, eliminating those caught in the middle, including a large segment of"Mc-" based names. 
This year the numbers and addresses of about 100 on-campus students are missing again. Computer foulups cannot be blamed this time. These deletions were no accident. They are the members of the Notre Dame football team who are on scholarship. 
Check it for yourself. Look up Blair Kiel. Or Mark Zavagnin. Or Allen Pinkett. Or Hal Von Wyl. Or evenjim O'Hara. What you will find is their name, their year, and their college ... and nothing more. Even more obscure players who have never played a minute on the varsity and may never do so have been accorded this treatment. Even the Notre Dame operators do not give out the informa­tion; their phone numbers and room numbers are "unlisted." 
Faust mentioned to the media that he wished his players could be placed in a vacuum, unable to see or hear the opinions of newspapers and fellow students about his on­one-week, off-the-next football team. This is one attempt at that, but it is one which first, betrays a lack of trust in the student body from Faust, and second, eliminates any credibility to the claim that Notre Dame foot­ball players are as accessible as any other average student and more so than those at other big-time football schools. 
Some maneuvering must have occurred be­tween the football office and the Office ofthe Registrar to pull this off. On-campus students are omitted from the directory only in ex­treme circumstances. Off-campus students do have the option of being unlisted; they receive an "Off-Campus Card" at registration which asks ifthey wish to be unlisted. 
Even ifon-campus students could easily ac­quire unlisted phone numbers, I doubt that 95 scholarship football players -and no one else on campus -would have voluntarily asked that all but their names be deleted from the official University phone directory. 
There may be a few students here who would call one ofthe players after a lousy per­formance and berate him. The vast majority, even the most ardent Irish fans, are beyond that, based upon past experiences. Yes, the spectators hate to see the team lose, but they generally take it well when it does happen; they don't blame the players for losses. 
They often, however, will blame the coach. 
What seems to be happening is that the pressures ofthe "toughest job in America" are getting to Faust already. He came here on a inassive public-relations blitz, visiting every dorm on campus and quickly endearing him­self to the Notre Dame student body. His ac­tions since the promise ofthe spring of 1981 have turned many students against him, and not only because of the team's less-than­thuncter-shaking 5-6 record last year. 
Some of Faust's behavior off the field, both in word and in deed, alienated some of his most ardent supporters. Leaving the players' addresses and phone numbers out of the offi­cial telephone directory will not help matters any. In fact, it more likely will make things worse. 
Notre Dame prides itselfon the scholarship athlete as an integral part ofthe community as a whole, living among the other students in the same dorms and, often, the same closet­sized rooms. This deed has, in effect, separated the team from the community, as much interaction here takes place over the phone. What will happen next? Will the separation become more than symbolic? Will next year find all the players living in the same dorm, like at other football factories? 
Because Notre Dame has not allowed the same sort of segregation that other schools do, the players have had to learn to handle the pressure from their fellow students. Most, if not all, of them do; witness the very low player transfer rate. It seems like the man at the top is not doing as well. Ifhe can't handle the heat, he should get out of the kitchen before he is allowed to burn it down. 
For natural birth control 
This weekly column would never have (Mary joyce): "Some of the effects caused by been possible without this author being the the drug are nausea, vomiting, cramps and beneficiary ofthe influence and support of bloating, amenerrhea, edema, chloasma more than a few priests and some fantastic (brownish discoloration ofthe skin), cerebral layfriends. Today's article is a tribute to two vascular accidents, vision impairent, loss of of these wonderful people -a young scalp hair, leg cramps, jaundice, migraine, allergic rash, rise in blood pressure, mental depression and blood clotting sometimes
David M. Schorp 
resulting in serious damage or strokes." Dear, you are a very healthy, strong person, mental­
Chautauqua in Faith 
ly and physically, but altering such a complex 
system as your menstrual cycle and married couple who have graciously con­reproductive system isserious. There is much sented to the printing ofa very personal let­· potential for you to be harmed. We loveyou ter. What a beautiful letter it is; a newly too much to take risks with this, or any other engaged man and woman, who were both in chemical means ofbirth control. graduate school, were first confronting the 2)Our marraige is for the community first. question of birth control. Not only is birth By sacrificing, (seven or eight days with the control "faithfully" explored but another, most modern, scientific methods) we have to more encompassing theme brought out is suffer, but this will make us stronger, better "How Best to Make a Decision." persons, better able to help others. 
3) (Like 2) We have a responsibility to Dearest, bless this world with our wonderful children -to -be. And ifwe feel it is best to wait to This letter will be about birth control. 1 do this, we should do so in the most unselfish 
have been reading some of the books that we way. We should sacrifice to have our first two had thought about. Dear, if we really think years to ourselves. most basically alike, will we come to the same But after all these reasons are listed, there conclusion in our thinking? Ifthis is the case, I remains some scary thoughts. What ifnatural 
think I can state our decision. birth control doesn't work? Can we refrain 
When my younger brother was thinking from sex seven ofeigth days a week? (What if 
about going for eight months to France, he we used the pill and it didn't work?) There 
wrote me a letter asking me for advice about exists the possibility ofour conceiving a child 
how he should make a decision. He was in­while we are still in school. We can't get 
secure about leaving for so long, and to help married until we are comfortable with this 
his decision he wanted to use some words possibility. 
from the Bible, "Trust God to make your This is the most beautiful, general way that 
decisons." He asked my opinion, and this is we can be, dear: we will put our faith in God. 
what I told him. We will get married, and put our faith and our 
The whole question centers around having minds to work to use natural birth control. 
a free will, and being able to make our own We will say to God, "God, we think that we 
decisions when the Bible might be inter­will serve you best if we wait to have 
preted as saying, "listen to God for your deci­children." But, dear, we must realize that God 
sion." I believe, dear, that the two views can might say, "No, I want you to have beautiful 
be brought together. We can use our free will babies!" 
to make a decision, but the basis ofour think­It has to be faith! With faith, things will al­ing should be our faith. We say to ourselves, ways work out for the best. We might not "Which will be the best way to please God?" think right now that a baby would be the best. So we use our trust in God to make a decison. But ifwe are using our faith for natural birth This will be the final, most general reason contro~ and ifGod decides differently for us, 
that we might agree on in thinking about birth then He must be right!! . control, but first I'd like to present some In short, dear, won't we use our faith to try others. and glorify God, and in doing so won't we be 
1) The pill has harmful side effects. To comfortable knowing that God will take of us quote from The Meaning of Contraception and make us the happiest we can be? 

'What's that, judge? You expect myclient to work within thatlittle framework?!' 
P.O. Box Q 

Occupation of Lebanon must end 
DearEditor: time in years there was hope for peace and 
April 13, 1975 was the beginning of the the Lebanese thought that their suffering so-called Lebanese war. Now, seven years had been brought to an end. later, with more than 100,000 Lebanese That hope lasted a few days but was dis­killed and hundreds of thousands of others sipated with the slaying of the new presi­homeless in a population of three million, dent. His death was a blow to the aspiration with economical losses approaching thirty of freedom, democracy, and justice in the billion dollars, and its capital lying in ruins, new Lebanon that president Gemayel had Lebanon finds its territory occupied by promised the Lebanese. It was also a remin­three powerful foreign armies, the Syrians, der ofthe forces which will always try to un­the PLO, and the Israelis. Amidst all this, dermine Lebanon's independence. Lebanon celebrates its Independence Day The momentum that the Lebanese cause on November 22. gained in the summer disappeared. Israeli, 
Foreign powers saw in the small, neutral Syrian and PLO forces are still in Lebanon 
and peace loving-Lebanon a country they and each is setting impossible conditions to could polarize. In 1975 the PLO tried to do withdraw. American mediators find them­so, in 1977 the Syrians joined in and in 1982 selves trapped again in the Middle Eastern the Israelis became part of the picture. The poltics, and an early withdraw! of foreign Lebanese suffered a lot from the war but troops is not likely to occur. they never gave up and resisted all invading 
The American role in trying to achieve a forces. For seven years, world opinion pull out of those forces must be commend­seemed to care less for what happened to able. We hope that the American effort will 
Lebanon and to the Lebanese, and called the continue and will be eventually fruitful. war a civil and internal conflict. 
Once Lebanon finds itself free from 
The summer of 1982 was a turning point. foreign occupation, we will rebuild it in no The Israeli invasion of Lebanon uncovered time. We have the know how, the will the the main actors on the Lebanese arena. The 
faith and the love to do it. But will we be ever 
world saw the urgency of resolving the left alone? What does the future hide for the Lebanese problem. The PLO left Beirut tiny, once beautiful Lebanon? Are the which it controlled for seven years. A new 
Lebanese condemned to live in grievance and young Lebanese president was elected, and despair?? Bachir Gemayel, and he rallied behind him 
Francois Boueri 

Christians and Moslems alike. For the first 
Lebanese Student 

-_~~The _-Observer----~--=-= Editorial Board Department Manage--:s 
if,,· 0/JrnTer ~~ an indcpcnJcn: ncw,paper f'Uhlt,hcd by the 'tudcnts of the Editor-in-Chief.... .Michael Monk Business Manager.............................Tony Aiello 'nt\l·r,tty of Notre D.1mc du I.J<" .lfld SJmt M.uy·, C:ollc,~.:L· It does Pot 11lH"''.Hd)· ManagingEditor.... ........Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller.............................................Eric Schulz rcflt'lt the polt, w' of the admmt,trJtJOII oi L'tthcr 111~tttut1011 Thr news ., report Executive News Editor.............. David Dziedzic Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen cd ~' .llturJtel)· and .t~ ohJt'llt\d)" ~' f'lh,ible. EdttoriJls rq'rc~ent the opt~ton of SMC Executi11e Editor............ Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager..................Maura :\1urphy .1 m.qortty of the Ld1tonJI Bo.1rd Co.nment.lr<l''. opin1ons Jnd letters .He the \'lews .\ports Editor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager .................... , ..... Ray lnglin ,,f tht-.r author,. ( olumn ~('J'c ., JYJd.thk to .dl tnemher' of the tommunlly. ;wJ Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley the frc-e exprc,stun of va.rylllg opmtons on (ampu>. through letter~. 10 enLpunged. Features Editor.... ..........Tari Brown Photo Et!it~r ...................................Rachel Blount 
Founded November 3, 1966
P.O.Hox Q, Notre l>anw, IN -th5'56 (! ll)) !.~9-';505 
~j)()~tS=~~~~t~·~~~~~~S~~~~==================~=T=h=ur=sd=a=y,=N=o=ve~m=b=e=r=l8=·'=19=8=2===pa=g=e=8
By The Observer anu The Associated Press 
~BS Sports, because of the settlement of the NFL players strike. has decided not to televise this Sunday's Notre Dame· Yugoslavia basketball game at the ACC after all, opting instead to return to its normal Sunday football telecast schedule. The game, originally scheduled to be played tonight but moved for TV purposes, will still be played Sunday, and Notre Dame will still receive the fee stipulated in the contract, reported to be around 
520,000. -The Observer 

Notre Datne Weightlifting Clubwillhavean organizational meeting Sunday at 1 p.m. in the third floor weight room of The Rock. All students and faculty members interested in weight training, bodybuilding or powerlifting or desire to know more about these sports, are urged to attend. Women are welcome. Ifyou are interested but unable to attend, call Matt Kelleher at 1 S81. -The Observer 
Orange Crush Classic tickets are available for both the Nov. 26 and 27 sessions on a two-for-one basis. The Notre Dame women's basketball team will participate in the tournament, which will be held at the Rosemont Horizon over Thanksgiving break, along with top national powers UCLA, Georgia and Rutgers. Tickets will be sold at the ACC at the rate of two for either S8 or S I 0 for any of the four sessions. The Irish women will open the tournament against UCLA on Friday, Nov. 26, at I p.m. -The Obsen•er 
lnterhall basketball captains are asked to be at a meeting today at 4:30p.m. in the ACC Auditorium. -The Ob­server 
lnterhall soccer playoffs continue tonight at Cartier Field with Dillon taking on Grace in the finals of the losers' bracket. Tonight's winner faces Flanner, the victor in the winners' bracket who has yet to lose in the double-elimination playoffs, on Sunday. Flanncr needs to win only one more game to claim the title, while tonight's winner must defeat Flanner twice to win it all. -The Observer 
Charlie Lundeen, Northern Michigan's sophomore center, was named the CCHA Player ofthe Week for his performance last weekend against No. 1 Michigan State. Lundeen scored the win· ning goal in one game, and added an insurance goal in another, to lead tbe Wildcats to a 2-1, 3-1 sweep of the top-ranked Spartans. Notre Dame senior left wing Kirt Bjork was nominated for his two­goal performance in last Saturday's S-4 victory at Illinois-Chicago. ­
1he Observer 

lnterhall racquetball tournatnent has been postponed indefinitely due to the unavailability of courts, which are currently under repair. Watch for announcements concerning the resumption ofthe tournament. --The Observer 
See SPORTSBRJEFS ,page 10 
• • • Metzler 
continuedfrom page 12 
hind the Tech bench. The Huskies return 231ettermen from a team that compiled a 23-14· 3 mark last season. These players have made Nahrgang's 
transition  from  assistant  to  head  
coach very enjoyable.  
This  weekend's  series  will  be  

wide open and, more than likely, high scoring. Kirt Bjork, who leads the team in scoring with 13 points, will lead the Irish. Meanwhile, seven Tech icers, all with nine points or more, will direct the offensive barrage for the visitors. 
The Irish heau into the contest 3-S in CCHA play, and tkd for seventh in the conference. Notre Dame needs at least a split to gain some momen· tum heading into next weekend's 
clash with the first place Falcons of Bowling Green. The opening face-off for both games against Michigan Tech is 7:30 
p.m. at the ACC. 
Notre Dame's next games at the ACC will be the important Dec. 4 and S showdowns with top-rated Michigan State. Tickets for all 
games arc available at the Gate 10 box office. 
The Observer w111 accept class1heds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. class1f1eds to appear 1n the next 1ssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the busmess day pnor to 1nsert1on. All class1fieds must be prepaid. 
e1ther 111 person or through the mail. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 
HAVE YOU READ THE MOST FAMOUS WALL ON THIS CAMPUS? DO YOU NEED A HAIRCUT BEFORE YOU ARE DEPORTED? DOES YOUR MOTHER DANCE ON TABLES IN A COCKTAIL LOUNGE? IF YOU ANSWERED YES TO ANY ONE OR MORE OF THESE QUESTIONS CALL TODAY FOR AN APPOINTMENT: GUYS $4, GIRLS $6 MICHOLE AT 7850 
MONEY FOR SCHOOL!! We guarantee to find scholarships. granls. a1d wh1ch you·re eligible to receive. Apphcat1on malerials -$1.00. Financial Aid Finder, Box 1053-CD. Fairfield. Iowa 52556 
Photographers Am lookmg for someone to work for a profess~onal photographer next semester and next year 12 hrs/wk, musl be able to do high quality B&W lab work and be a compelent pholographer Greg 277·2657 
Gmat rev1ew classes lor Jan 29th exam begin Dec 41h. Call Slanley Kaplan EducatiOnal Center for 1nfo --232-2366 or 272-4135. 
Need drummer for band. C I all Brad 8920 Lei's go for 11 before we gel old! 
WILSON DRIVEAWAY·One-way lranspo home for T-g1v1ng.You pay gas. tolls (sec dep) BOB 233-6495 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT JOB BANK 
STAMFORD ART· TEMP XMAS EMPLOYMENT CONTACT JAN CRAIGHTON UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 277·2223 AMERICAN INSTITUTE FOR FOREIGN STUDY COLLEGE STU­DENTS FOR CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES CONTACT MARGIE MCCORMICK 203-629-1012 
MINNESOTANS Daddy wants his car back so I need a nde back to NO the Sun· day aher Thanksg~v1ng (actually 2 ndes) Call Carol at 7730 
IWANNAGOTO JOISEY Desperately need nde to anywhAre in the Garden State Call Laune at 7730 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST One pearl necklace w ruby clasp If found please call Mara 6874 
LOST:A Down Jackel at lhe Beaux Arts Ball.h is tan wrth blue sleeves It is brand new.lf taken or found. please return to 243 Stanford (8670) and no questions will be asked 
Lost on Salurday I 1/13 gold bracelet if found call Cathy 284-5306 
Lost before break gold necklace w1th charm. Charm has '"itials carved K.C.H. If found please call Kacey 284-4304 
FOUND: Pr binoculars on Greenfield Sat Call and descnbe them well and be close to the location and they re yours. Pete (3528) a her I0:30pm. 
LOST: ONE GOLD MEN'S CHAIN M~ght have been lost in the ACC on Mon· day 11115 Please call David at x6931 LOST or probably STOLEN one Lev1s blue Jean jacket Thurs mle at Corbys. If you value your hfe and/or want a reward then call 3588 and lalk Ia me. Dont show up at Corbys agatn without 11. 
Irish Tweed Cap-Gray. Lost 11-10· 82, possibly 1n the library. Call8350·-ask for M1ke Thanks. 
REWARD!!! Lost at Penn State Pep rally, one pair of GORILLA COSTUME GLOVES If found, call8125. 
ONE TIRE JACK WITH THE NAME MAR­GARET ON IT. CALL 288·0725 
FOR RENT 
SPACIOUS ONE BEDROOM UNFUR­NISHED APT GARAGE BSMT. UTILITIES INC. EXCEPT ELEC. L W W S BEND 240 00 A MONTH PLUS DEPOSIT 287·5535 
Student Housmg · Clean · Sate $100/mo 291·1405. 
Ntce clean, 4 room stngle, appliances & major utihhes furntshed 3 blocks from memonal hosp. 175.00 288-6721 
Rent or buy, assume low 1nterst loan wtth small down payment on 2 story bnck home 4 bedroom bath & a half !~replace. gas furnace good meborhood, 275.00 rent 288-6721 
1 or 2 bedroom apt close to memonal hospital semt-furntshed, utilities payed 145.00 & 195 00 depos~l 277-5607 after 5:00 
Room 1n 4·112 bath home 1n wooded area Two m1les from campus. Swtmmtng pool, rec room wlf~replace Sate w1th plenty of off·slreet park~ng. Washer and dryer Call Mro Cooper 272·3004 after 12 noon. 
Don t sleep With a club for protect~on 3­bedroom house available tor rent now . $300 mo. Call 289-8363 
WANTED 
A1de needed to St.Louis for Thar.ksgov1ng break. leavtng Wed noon Will share usual Please call Jean at 289-9304 
NEED RIDE TO DC AREA FOR TURKEY BREAK..CAN LEAVE ANY TIME CALL DOUG AT 3251 
NEED RIDE TO COLUMBUS, OHIO Two nders need nde for Thanksgiving, share usual. Call Larry at x 1 1 80 
NEED RIDERS TO CHARLOTTE, N.C. I am leaving Tuesday lor Thanksg1v1ng. call M1ke at 6934 
REALLY NEED RIDE TO CENTRAL NEW YORK (ALBANY, UTICA, SYRACUSE FOR XMAS BREAK---WILL SHARE USUAL ---CALL CHRIS AT 8573 OR 3510 ANYTIME. 
RIDE NEEDED TO NYC FOR XMAS BREAK-WILL SHARE USUAL--CALL CHRIS AT 8573 OR 3510 ANYTIME. 
Need ride to Cleveland area Friday, 19 call Ralph x1 105 
Help! kneed lift !rom to,: pis tor TG break$$ Dave -19 11pm Need 2 ndes to ISU Bloom~ngton, IllinOis thiS weekend Call 5268 

Help! Need nde lo WESTERN PA forT· g~v1ng break. Either 1·80 or PA Tpk Can leave Man mteor anyttme Tues. Call Ter­ri x6797 
WANTED ANY HOCKEY EQUIPMENT 
EXCEPT SKATES DAVE 1578 
Need nde lo M1nneapo11s for Thanksglv· 
1ng. Can leave 1 1/23. please call Paul 
8775 

RIDE NEEDED TO AMARILLO/DALLAS AREA FOR BREAK CAN LEAVE ANYTIME AND WILL TAKE RIDE PARTWAY CALL DAVE at 1578 
G01ng to or t~ru EAU CLAIRE. WISC. for. Thanx break? Need nde, wtll share usual. Brent 8593 
HELPII! My mother has threalened 
SUICide tf I don·t make 1t home ·for Thanksg1v1ng Please spare her hie by g1v1ng me a nde lo beautiful Ballimore ­home ollhe Onoles-or lo lhe 0 C area. Call M1ke at 3401 or3402 as soon as pt OS· Sible My lather willlhank you. 
PITTSBURGH OR BUSTI R1de needed for two females lor Thanksg1v1ng break! Can use round tnp, or one way FROM I he Burgh! Please phone Leanne-8983, or 7753. W~ll share usual! 
A1de needed lo LOUISVILLE, KY Thanksg1v1ng break W1ll share usual N1ck 1434 
NEED RIDE TO DETROIT MON P M OR TUES. WILL SHARE$$ MEG 284-5027 
Any N 0 or SMC g~rls gomg to the spa, I need a nde .. please Call Tom SMC 5527 
NEED RIDE TO DETROIT FOR THANKSGIVING ·WILL SHARE USUAL CALL 7978 ASK FOR MAUREEN CAN LEAVE TUESDAY 
Need ride to -Miwaukee this Friday to meet my dashong young male. Call Mary Brigld at 3-486. 
NEED RIDE TO MINEAPOUS FOR BREAK CAN LEAVE MON. AFTER­NOON, CALL JOE at 1534 
RIDE NEEDED THANKSGIVING BREAK TO No. VA OR D.C AREA IM WILLING TO RENT A CAR PLEASE CALL 8332 
NO. VA/WASH 0 C. IS where I need a nde to tor Tnksgvng Brk Will share usual John 1817 
Need nde to Wash1ngton.D.C. area for Thanksg1v1ng break. Will share usual Call 3656 
WASHINGTON.D C Need nde -Will share usual Bnan 1139 
Help! 2 g~rls desparately need nde to PHILA. area for break. Call Karen SMC· 5531 
need nde lo Ch~cago (western suburbs) for Thanksgiving. can leave Tues., the 23rd call Sheila 289-9304 
DESPARATELY NEED RIDE TO ST LOUIS TO SPEND THANK W/ LONELY GRANDMOTHER CALL JOHN 8621 
2 charmtng, young ladles seek transpo Ia Youngstown,OH lor Thanks-g1v1ng If you re travelling 1~80 and can oblige us please call Marlene or Demse(2963) Need ride to DETROIT For Thanksg1v1ng Share usual 6849 
Please help I need a nde to Cleveland anylime a her Tuesday 10:00. Call Tnsh 4138 
Need nder 10 CLEVE. area for T·guv1ng. Call Kathy 1279. 
NEED RIDE ALONG 1·80 TO IOWA (DES MOINES) FOR THANKSGIVING CALL MARK 288·4242 
Please help me gello PITTSBURGH for Thanksg1v1ng Break Need either a round trip, or oneway nde from P1ttsburgh to N.D. Can leave any ttme, w1ll share usual Please help I!! Cail Kaly 284·41 91 
FOR SALE 
USED BOOKS Bought, Sold, Searched. ERASMUS BOOKS Tues-Sun. 12·6 1027 E Wayne One Block South of Eddy-Jefferson lnlersecllon 
FOR SALE· Large. comfortable couch. Besl offer Call2854 
ONYX CHESS SETS IMPORTED FROM MEXICO HAND CARVED ONYX CHESS SETS. IMP CALL 683-9754 3·4 PM ONLY $32 50 BY ORDER ONLY 
FOR SALE 2 prong lap $35 Call Mary S 277-2916 
TICKETS 
I NEED 4 USC GAs CALL BRENDAN 3207 
FOR SALE 2 USC TIXS GA GREAT LOCAT CALLMATTAT1581 
NEED USC TICKETS Please Call Dorene al 284·5530 MUCHO BUXIII 
4 UCLA and 2 IU 11ckets tor one ~n need' For top$$ call F1f1 x 1 250 
I need your Kentucky GA. s Will pay b1g bucks! Please call Ted x1873 
Need 2 GA s for KY BB game Call J1m 1498 
PERSONALS 
The ra1n 1n Spa1n lalls ma1nly 1n Dusquene 
St Edward·s Hall turns 1 00!!!!! Si Edwards Hallturns 100!!111 St. Edward·s Hall turns 100!!!!! Sl. Edwards Halllurns 100!!!!! 
Turtle, 

Watch out for those snow bunn1es on the bunny hill! Especially the one who s got her eye on 
you. Love you, Bucky 
THE EXORCISTIII Come and see THE EXORCIST lh1s Wed and Thurs. 1n the Engmeenng Audttonum 7, 9:15, & 11:30 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL. 1882-1982. 
Milwaukee... I need a nde thiS week 10 Milwaukee I can leave Thursday late afternoon or Fnday mornmg Are you go1ng? Take me w1th you Call Bob at 8641. 
Happy Birthday Daddy, Have a mce one! I love you. . Gus 
Dear Karen, 
Thank you so much A ra1nbow always bnghtens my day! Laura 
Conlrary to popular belie!, Sue F and Shaun M are nol engaged 
SO FAR SO GOOD EDDIE, YOUVE BEEN SUPER I!! 
YOU DON'T CARE IF I FLIRT. FIND SOEONE ELSE, TAKE A LUDE. OR GET WEIRD ON YOU. BECAUSE YOU LL AL· WAYS FEEL FINE AND DO IT IF YOU JUST MET ME, EVEN THOUGH YOU'RE AWESOE ANO DON T LIKE EJN.ZOO 
St Ed s Were w1ld Were crazy. Were 100 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY RICHIE! Love. Joame. Pots1e. Lenny & Sq01ggy. Laverne & Shirley 
I WILL LOSE MY VIRGINITY FOR A RIDE HOME!! I need a nde to Phil area or Delaware Can leave Tues or Wed Please call Ed al 8639 
l1ke Rosanne Rosannadana satd· Ya know Jane. II s always soeth1ng 
WSNOAM64 
Hey Janel I hope you have your dancing shoes ready! Guess Who 
JUGGLER 1) All subm1ss~ons to I he Juggler may be recla1med by v~s~ling lhe English office. 309 0 Shag beg1nmng Monday, Nov. 22. 2) Watch for the Fall 1982 edil1on of the Juggler. 10 be dlslnbuled al no charge tor the f~rst 
t1me in three years followtng Thanksgiv­Ing break 
THANKS TIM' NOW THE LOVE QUAD IS COMPLETE! 
Mary Ann C. from Oaklawn. I_ enjoyed meellng you at Corby's last 
Saturday mght. I d love 10 see you when you gel back to Ch1cago !!I! 
LOVE, Dav1d C 
Hey B~g Feel· You ve gol a great pair 
. . of twos Happy Birthday! May the day bnng you pleasure, Your pal p s Do I get to g~ve you a b1g wei one? 

St Edward s Hall t 882-1982 Super men 1n a super dorm 
Pangborn Patnters are Prtmed for Party­Ing Fn Dec 3 Be there! 
St Ed s We ve been talking proud all week 
Joe· 
good luuck With the show, and !hanks for 
be1ng a fnend for 
all seasons!!! 
love. 

the yellow rose ps where s my "Southern Comfort???'. ItS getting Chilly OUISide! 
ATTENTION SPORTS FANS!!!: Willlhe much-maligned quarterback be able 10 pull off yet another m~raculous "Ha~l Mary finish, or will h1s attempt to secure an NO victory be bur.ed ~n the depths of htS openmg monologue as emcee of St. Ed's mght at the Nazz? Jt s still fourth and twen1y-f1ve, I he clock IS wind1ng down, the fans are getting restless (if I were 1n his Slluat1on. I d pun!, but alleaslthere·s one th••. g 1n his favor-he s not from Rochester) Stay tuned to learn the outcome of thts thnlhng encounter bullettns as they oc­
curt!! 
I LIKE TO DIE!!!! Brad Bandura of 454 Mornssey has linally turned 1 8 years old today We all know he II just be happier than a t1ck on a coon·s ta1l today, so females bewaret Of course ths weeks Emil wont stop him from celebrat1ng tn the trddtttonal Tennessee tash1on. w1ll 1t Brad? The olher lwo·lhirdS 
To Barbara on lh1s spec1al day· 
You have come to understand that which 
I. myself. could not grasp 'You have helped me to learn wnat should have been known from the start A ·start , 1ndeed. IS what we have made The t~me away Will be but t1me pass1ng. rather ihan 11me that passes us by T1me rumaomng 1s not a l1m1t to ttme. but rather the hmrt to our beg1nn1ng 
There IS little I hal can be sa1d thai has not already been heart-tell Heart-felt emo­tions, sturdy rememberances wh1ch cor­respond w~th the photographs that we Will Silently store and long1ngly admire 1n our own secret places. Thank you lor l~e souvemrs whJCh I wtll keep tn my heart ft :-e 1er Happy anmversary ll1s not lhe last 
In thanksgiving lo Sl Jude lor answers 10 hts Novena He d1d not fatI 
STAR WARS Carroll Hall (SMC) Thurs. Fn, Sat 7:30 and 1 0 $1 
To the guys of 1239 TC, Thanx for a fun lime! M1ke you re gorgeous? Ed keep thai longue 1n1Pele take some pictures~ The Short s•de of South Carolina 1s the place lo oe! We love you; 339-306 AS, SMC 52­
21?' 
Isola!Jon-1 group of two, 1 floor up and 1 dorm over 
We liked to die when we heard 11 was BRAD BANDURAS BIRTHDAY Have a happy one Love. Kath. Ann. Chnsline. Pam. and KC 
IT S HARD to have THE WHO 1n S B 
Join Masoch•sts Anonyous thiS Fnday at the hovel of Fos1 Ver Manker weak Tang served to all surv1vors a1 8 am 
·rhe Obsen:er Thursday, November 18, 1982 -page S 

Notre Dame senior fullback Lany Smith received the coveted "Coach's Award," honoring the player who best exemplifies what an Irish soccer player should be, at last night's year-end banquet. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
EtiTRYFOR Operation Brainstorm 
ttAME: ADDRESS: ______ BRIEF DESCRIPTIOtt OF IDEA: 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's Theatre Presents 
Th\ZMaids 
byJean Genet Novemberl2.13.!8.!9.20·8pm-WashingtonHallonNotreDame·scampus $300 General Admission $2.50Students-SeniorCitizens-FacultyStaff · Opening Night: 2 for the pricecfl' For informationcall284-4626 

Soccerbanquet • 
Hunter na~es aw-ards, capta1ns
with a .874 g.a.a. More than once this senior Larry Smith, the iron man o1 By SAM SHERRILL season, he came up with the big save the defense. Sports Writer to turn a game around. The last major announcement of 
Other awards given out last night the evening was the captains for the The Notre Dame soccer team 
included: 1983 season. There will be four cap-closed out a successful season in tine 
• Awards of appreciation to all tains next year: seniors Mark Luet· style last night with its sixth annual seniors, including Brad McCurrie, kehans and Ken Harkenrider and awards banquet held at the MR Fal­Ed Graham, Steve Berry, Larry Smith, juniors Richard Herdegen and Steve cons Club in South Bend. Such dig­Gerard McCarthy, Mario· Manta, Chang. nitaries as Edward "Moose" Krause Mike Sullivan, Jay Schwartz and A tentative schedule for next 
and Gene Corrigan, the past and 
manager Greg Koury season was also unveiled. The Irish present University athletic direc­
•The "Spirit" award, to backup will play perennial foes Indiana, Ak· tors, were in attendance to salute 
goalkeeper Dan Coughlin ron and Marquette, among others. the team on its fine 16-4-2 record. 
•The Most Improved Player and also a few newcomers like 
After cocktails and dinner, master award, to fullback Bruce Novotny Wilkes College and Stockton State. ofceremonies Tom Van Meter, an as­
•l'he Scholar-Athlete award, to Hunter closed out the evening sistant coach with the Irish, opened 
senior Mike Sullivan with an exhortation to this year's the awards portion of the banquet 
•The award for Greatest Con-freshmen to follow the seniors' ex 
by introducing Fr. James Riehle, tribution to the Varsity by a Fresh-ample and dedicate themselves to Chaplain of Varsity Athletics, to 
man, to joe Hohl the program. He also set as the present the Most Valuable Player 
•The Scoring Leader award, to team's goal for next season a victory award. This award, voted on by 
Mario Manta over powerful Indiana. After five members ofthe team, was bestowed •The Assist Leader awards, to losses in five years, a victory over IC on goalkeeper Gerard McCarthy. Richard Herdegen and Steve Chang would be the type ofwin to turn the 
McCarthy, a senior, started 20 of The last major award was the program around. 22 games this season, recording 82 "Coach's Award", a special honor With all the adversity the Irish suf­saves, ten shutouts, and a 1.127 
bestowed by Coach Rich Hunter on fered earlier this season, one has to goals-against average. Over four the player who most exemplifies admire the grit and determination years, McCarthy allowed only 34 what a Notre Dame soccer player they showed to post the final record goals in 52 games played, finishing should be. This year's recipient was they did. · 
tr Jnlt&4 JrinctJmrna ' 
II FREE DELIVERY. 272-8o3o. to ND &SffiC II
z ----n 
~ S2.00 oH any large SERVING POLISH STYLE & g;:) fll 50 H d ITALIAN PIZZA. PIEROGE, 't)
0 fl • 0 any me . SANDWICHES 0 V fll QQ ff II Z
18061 So Bend Ave. 
l -. • 0 any Sma 1f2 Block West of J 
~ Ironwood on SR 23 A 
NOT GOOD WITH OTHER COUPONS OR DISCOUNTS 
,...
.............................................................................................................................................. 
i YOURBSNISWORIHAN i
i OFFICER'S COMMISSION ~ 
i IN THE ARMY. , i 
~ Your BSN means you're a professional. In the Army, it also !! means you're an officer. You start as a full,fledged member ofour ;J medical team. Write: Army Nurse Opportunities, ! ~ P.O. Box 7713, Butbank, CA 91510. J 
~ ARMY NURSE CORPS. ~
! BEAILYOUaNBE. ! 
l...................,,.. , .................................,.......................,...........,.,............l 

Application and Information 
A/l Sophomores 
Meeting Arts and Letters 
LONDON 
PROGRAM 
Thursday Nov. 18, 1982 
7:30 PM library Auditorium 
Selection procedures will be explasned and applicatior1s disti3buted at this meetin9. 
Thursday, November 18, 1982-page 10
The Observer 

~· Norbertiue 
. Fathers & Brothers: 
We offer the opportunity for Teaching and Pastoral Ministry with life in community. We are men seeking God through t shared life t shared prayer j shared ministry This Is our ehallenge: 
For more Information write to:  Rev. Gene Gries, O.Praem.  
Vocation Director  
St. Norbert Abbey  
De Pere, Wisconsin 54115  
Name  Addres.o;  
City  State  Zip  

Age Completed lligh School College 

The Notre Dame Student Union is lookmg tor TEACHERS tor 
Free Universi 

"an opportunity to share your interest'' 
GET INVOLVED!!! 
Bow for is too for· ? The Notre Dome Student Union 
presents PllliEIIAII SillY nED 
ABSENCE OF MALICE 
$1 7:00, 9:15, 11 :30 ENGINEERING ADD NOV 19 & 20 
JACK DANIELS 
699 
750 ML. 
GALLO PREMIUMS 
299 
1.5 LITER 
... Sports Briefs  
continuedfrom page 8 ND women's trackand fieldclub is looking for interested members to join up. Call Yvie Allmaras ( 1349) or Rose Marie Luking ( 6896) for details. -The Observer Hearing-impairedviewerswill be able to enjoy two televised Notre Dame basketball games with closed-captions. Metrosports, which will again televise a number of Irish games this season, has agreed to provide the service for the games against UCLA (Dec. 4) and Marquette Uan. 1 5 ). The captions, bowever, will be visible only on television sets equipped with TeleCaption units. -The Observer  



COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC POLICY STUDIES 
THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 
TWO YEAR MASTER'S PROGRAM IN POLICY ANALYSIS 
SteYen Loewy, Administrative Director, will be on campus to discuss the program and career opportunities. 
Fri., NOV.19, 9:00,10:00,11:00,1 :30p.m. Small Group Appomtments 
.~ment~!Jure~u, R~m 213. Thurs., Nov.18,6:30p.m. Career Options m Pubhc Policy,'' Hayes-Healy Center, Room 124. 
Please call tor an appointment, or tor information. 239-5200. 
Interested students w1tn any major are welcome to attend these meetings. 
Student Policy issues such as: Urban Fiscal Stress, Health Care Housing, International Trade, Economic Development Taxatio~ Regulation. Federalism, Welfare, Energy, Arms Control, lmmigr~tion, ec 
Boxer Kim declared deceased 
LAS VEGAS, Nev. (AP) 
Lightweight boxer Duk Koo Kim 
was pronounced dead last night, and 
the comatose boxer's mother said 
his organs would soon be 
transplanted so another person can 
live. 
A Nevada district judge allowed 
Kim's hospital respirator to be 
removed, and declared Kim legally 
dead at 9 p.m. EST. 
"My son, Duk Koo Kim, has passed away," said the 23-year-old South Korean's sobbing mother, Sun-Yeo Yang, through an interpreter. "I made up my mind that my son's living organs be transplanted so an­other person can live." 
Kim has been described by a neurologist as "brain dead" since shortly after being knocked om Saturday in the 14th round of a lightweight title hout against World Boxing Association champion Ray "Boom Boom" Mancini. The fighter never regained consciousness. Doc­tors said there was no sign of brain activity and Kim was kept alive by a life-support system. 
Doctors who had attended to Kim since the injury. said a team oforgan transplant doo.:rors was scheduled to arrive in Ia.' Vegas late la.~t night. 
They said they did not know when the organ transplants would be per­formed. and added that Kim's body would he flown back to Korea tomorrow afternoon after a short memorial service by the Korean Residents Association, a Korean community group here. 
Kim failtd to respond to acupuncture treatments yesterday from a team of Korean doctors. who said the comatose boxer "belongs to the dead." 
KAMCHATKA,.

-=--­

PABST 1;4 $1699 
VODKA 
BUD LIGHT Y2
799 
MILLER LITE Y2 $3199 
1.75 LITER 
QUARTS

JIM BEAM 
Lite
BOURBON Pabst
999 
Bud 
1.75 LITER 
Other Beer ZONIN ASTir; FURSTENBURG 
IMPORTED GERMAN 
$649
499 FALLS CITY case 750 ML. LONE STAR $699 case 
PRICES GOOD THROUGH SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 20,1982 
1621 South Bend Ave. (only) 
KEGS 

~-~-~--~-----~--------~-----------~----­
~---~--­
Ihe~rver======================~~==============~ 
T0 d~)!:==============T=h=u=rs=d=a=y=,=N=o=v=e=m=b=e=r=1=8='=1=9=8=2==p=a=g=e=l=l 

Doonesbury 


Garry Trudeau 

T 


i 
I· 
I 

SYSf£M lt-\Af W( f\Avf 
DEVI:"LOP(O ro~ J:"INDit-1~ 
KooM FoK. fEof'tf 
1\EfUKNINq fb CAMPUS. 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 33 -Rogers 50 Scent 27 $~Mils 1 Skinflint St. Johns 53 Winglike 28 Meetwlth 6 S.A. rodent 34 Did garden 55 Court former 
10 -Mater work action classmates 14 Building 35 Varnish 59 Ungrammat· 29 Clerical 
clay Ingredient leal Items vestment 15 Marsh grass 37 Movie 62 Thls:Sp. 30 Units of 16 f'oflow clesslc 63 Skin loudness 17 Gambler's 41 Coastal problem 31 Salad 
phrase bird 64 Precipitous ingredient 20 Building 42 Dagger, 65 Cozy 32 Charges 
wings old style retreat 34 Obstacle 21 Radix 43 Roof 66 Peruse 36 Wen 22 Gabler or overhangs 67 Singer Como 38 Serfof 
Hopper 44 Endorses yore 23 Pixie a metlon DOWN 39 Chow­24 Caspian 47 Most mature 1 Created 40 Snooze 
country 48 Finished 2 Baal 45 Battle 26 Chemical 49 Move a 3 Psyche 46 Ellipse compound camera a 4 Recedes 47-avis 30 Patron certain way 5 Electrical 49 Summoned , S l t" unit publicly
Wednesday s O u ton s verlflca· 50 Arabian 
Campus 
•4 
p.m. -Radiation Lab Seminar, "Electron Spin Resonance Studies of Spin-Stabilized Semi· quinones in Chemical and Biochemical Systems," Dr. Roger Sealy, Rad. Lab Conference Theatre 

•6 
p.m. -AISEC General Meeting, LaFortune 

•7, 
9:15, & 11:30 p.m. -Film, "The Exorcist," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Circle K Club, Sl 

•7:30 
p.m. -Meeting, The London Program of the College t ofArts and Letters, Dean Burns, library Auditorium 

•7:30, 
and 10 p.m. -Film, "Star Wars," Carroll Hall, Sponsored by SAPS, Sl 

•s 
p.m. -Concert, St. Mary's Choir Fall Choral Concert, Little Theatre, Free 

•s 
p.m. -Play, "Man For all Seasons," LaFortune Ballroom, Sponsored by Student Union Student Players, S2. 50 in advance 

•s 
p.m. -Basketball, ND vs. Yugoslavia National Team, ACC Arena 

•s 
p.m. -Lecture, "Was Plato a Feminist?" Prof. Gregory Vlastos, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium, Sponsored by Philosophy Department 

•s 
p.m. -Play, "The Maids," Washington Hall, Sponsored by ND/SMC Theatre, S2.50 

•9 
p.m. -Keenan Night at the NAZZ 


T.V. Tonight 
6p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  3·2·1 Contact  
6:30p.m.  16  NBC Nightly News  
22  CBS News  
28  ABC's World News Tonight  
34  Making It Count  
7p.m.  16  M*A*S*H  
22  Laverne and Shirley  
28  Joker's Wild  
34  The MacNeil/Lehrer Report  
7:30p.m.  16  All in the Family  
22  Family Feud  
28  Tic Tac Dough  
34  Straight Talk  
8p.m.  16  Fame  
22  Magnum PI  
28  ]oanie Loves Chachi  
34  All Creatures Great and Small  
8:30p.m.  28  The Star ofthe Family  
9p.m.  16  Cheers  
22  Simon and Simon  
28  Too Close for Comfon  
34  Wild America  
9:30p.m.  16  Taxi  
34  Sneak Previews  
10p.m.  16  Hill Street Blues  
22  Knots Landing  
28  20/20  
34  Odyssey  
llp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  The Dick Cavett Show  
l1:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Quincy and McCloud  
28  ABC News Nightline  

at Sr. Bar 
this Thursday open 9:10·2:00 
--------'---­

Thursday, November 18, 1982-page 12
S~orts 

... 
Kiel doubtful 

Notre Dame sore-armed quarterback Blair Kiel is doubtful for Saturday's game at Air Force. Kiel injured the arm in the Pitt game, and was unable throw more than one pass last week against Penn State. ND's bowl chances are 
equally doubtful, according to Chris Needles' article at right. (Photo by Pete Laches) 
Fiesta doubtful 

ND bo\Vllist has Bluebonnet on it 
By CHRIS NEEDLES much all closed out by now. They all Sports Editor have a lot at stake, and that's why 
If you were to believe the rumors that are flying around campus, Notre Dame will be playing in the Orange Bowl, the Cotton Bowl, the Fiesta Bowl and sitting at home doing no­thing on New Year's Day. 
Amazing, isn't it? 

College football's bowl bids are officially extended Saturday 6 p.m EST, and as usual the yearly guessing game has begun. As always, the Irish arc right in the middle of the rumor mill, and are supposedly targeted for every bowl this side of the Garden State. 
The truth is, last Saturday's 24-14 loss to Penn State effectively killed Notre Dame's ~hances for the Sugar Bowl, and probably every other January 1 bowl (Cotton, Orange and Fiesta). 
So, just where, ifanyplace, will the Irish go for post-season action? 
"We had been invited to several bowls," said Athletic Director Gene Corrigan yesterday. "But they all wanted acceptances in advance, whether or not we win Saturday (at Air Force). And we don't want to send the team to a bowl if we lose this week. We have to win to deserve a bid." 
It's no secret that deals are made prior to the Saturday announce­ments, as bowl officials scramble to fill their slots with "name" teams. And it looks like Notre Dame, by choosing not to make a commitment beforehand, may lose out on a major bowl bid. 
"We had been looking at the Gator and the Fiesta," said Corrigan, "hut they both wanted firm commit­ments in advance. Everybody panics and they (bowl officials) get on the phone and try to make deals. 
"The major bowls are pretty 
MSUwins, he loses 
'Muddy'Waters sings the blues 
It was a sad week for Bottom Ten devotees. One of 
the most beloved losers in college football got the axe. 
Sorry. folks, but we won't have Frank "Muddy" 
Waters to kick around any more. 

The legendary Michigan State coach is singing a sad 
song this week, and -ifhe's smart-looking for a job 
in another business. Already, though, the people in East 
Lansing may be longing for the good ol' days. 
See, it was just last week that tive of the schools top athletic department boosters announced publicly that they would donate no more money to the school unless MSU's president, athletic director and Waters were fired. 
Fools. 

The Spartans promptly went out and won a game. A conference game, no less. That'll teach 'em. It won't be long before Spartan fans beg the Mud Man to return. 
Elsewhere in the state, things were a Iitle happier. Eastern Michigan, recently the team with the longest losing streak in Division I, got back on the losing track this week. The Hurons dropped a hard-fought 7-24 game to Bowling Green. 
The Bottom Ten voters were furious this week when news leaked out ofSaratoga Springs, N.Y., that a Bottom Ten Hall of Fame nickname had been changed. Like the mysterious manner in which news of the Afghanistan tunnel tragedy was uncovered, this news, too, travelled slowly. 
For years, the Skidmore College teams have been among the favorites of ballot-casters. But no more. The school now goes by the nickname Thoroughbreds, which is dull and boringcompared to the old· monicker. 
Sad but true, Skidmore teams wll never again be called "The Wombats." There was an epic battle in the Midwest Athletic Conference last Saturday. The Kent State Golden Flashes went down to the wire before pulling out a miraculous 0-3 defeat against Toledo. 
Fans in Kent, Ohio, were understandably whelmed. 
A tip of the Bottom Ten chapeau goes to Kentucky State this week. KS.U. was awarded the coveted George Custer '"We ain't dead yet" Award after gaining minus 12 yards in total yardage against Eastern lllinois. 

Bottom Ten 
For those curious, Kentucky State lost that game -a 
real squeaker -0-73. 
Alabama gets an award this week, as well. The Fight­
ing Elephants have slipped a great deal, and are makng a 
real bid for a spot in the Bottom Ten. They are so bad, 
they lost this week in Tuscaloosa. That's twice in 19 
years they've lost there. 
It's a wonder they sell any tickets. 
Bear Bryant and the boys proudly accepted the Patrick Henry "Give me Liberty or give me,Garden State, but give me something" Award after losing to Southern Mississippi. 
Here are the rankings for this week: 
1) Rice (0-10) 

2) Kent State (0-10) 3) Richmond (0-10) 
4) Memphis State (0-9) 
5) Texas Southern (0-9-1) 6) Kentucky (0-9-1) 7) Oregon (0-8-1) 
8) Oregon State (0-8-1) 
9) Eastern Michigan (1-9) 
10) Texas-El Paso (1-8) 
Also receiving votes: Russ~ (1-0) NASA space suits (0-2) NFL fans (0-57) 
Quote ofthe Week: 
Michigan Coach Bo Schembechler -whose teams have lost their last game ofthe season in 13 ofthe last 15 years-on next week's game with Ohio State: "I don't have anything to prove next week." 
they panic." 
So where does that leave the Irish? 
"About the only bowl left for us, as it looks, is the Bluebonnet," said Corrigan. "We would play the Arkansas-SMlJ loser, which would be a Top Ten team. We're presenting the details to Father (Theodore) Hesburgh (University president), and he'll make the decision." 
The question is, would Notre Dame deign to play in a so-called "minor bowl?" 
"The Jan. 1 bowls are what you would call 'profit bowls,"' said Cor­rigan. "That is, you make more than enough money to cover your ex­penses. The others are called 'expense bowls,' because you only make enough to cover your ex­penses. We have to see if it is worth it for us to go to an expense bowl." 
Through various sources, The Ob­server has compiled the tentative major bowl pairings: 
•Sugar 
Bowl -No. 3 Penn State vs. Southeastern Conference cham­pion (No. 1 Georgia). Notre Dame was ticketed here if it had defeated the Lions last Saturday. 

•Orange 
Bowl -Winner of Saturday's Florida State-Louisiana State game vs. Big Eight Champion (probably Nebraska). Rumors sav 


. . 

that the Irish still have a chance here, especially ifFSU loses, in order to draw fans and ratings for this bowl, which goes head-to-head with the Sugar Bowl New Year's night. 
•Cotton 
Bowl -Southwest Conference champion (No. 2 SMU or No. 9 Arkansas) vs. No. 6 Pitt. 

•Fiesta 
Bowl -No. 8 Arizona State vs. Big Eight runner-up (probably No. 14 Oklahoma). Notre Dame had this one for the taking, but either did not want to make the ad­vance commitment, did not want to break an NCAA rule forbiding the ac­ceptance ofa bid in advance, or per­haps wanted to hold out for a better offer. 

•Rose 
Bowl -Big Ten cham­pion (No. 13 Michigan) vs. Pac-Ten champion (probably No. 5 Washing­ton). 

•Gator 
Bowl-No. 16 West Vir­ginia vs. the FSlJ-LSU loser. The Irish definitely cannot take this bowl, played on Dec. 27, because oflack of practice time caused by final exams, which last until Dec. 23. 


Corrigan cautions, however, that anything can happen between now and Saturday. "Some (bowls) have made commitments," he said, "but all sorts ofthing can happen. Pitt can lose to Rutgers (this week), some­body might change their mind ...You never know." 
Metzler leads Irish icers into Tech series 
By STEVEN LABATE 
Sports Writer 
When time had expired on the third period clock at the University of Illinois-Chicago Pavilion last Friday night, the Notre Dame hock­ey team had lost by nine goals, 11-2. Head Coach Lefty Smith assessed it as "the most frustrating loss of my career." 
Midway through the second period the next evening, the Irish were doing a little better -they 
1 trailed Illinois-Chicago by only three goals, 4-1. Two scores before the second intermission pulled the Irish to within one going into the third period. Notre Dame lit the lamp twice in the final session, both times by the man, Kirt Bjork, who has been providing clutch goals for Notre Dame since he arrived on the scene in 1979. But the man who assisted on the tying and game-winning tallies, Mike Metzler, is a relative newcomer to late game heroics. Metzler, all told, had three assists last weekend, and along with Bjork, were the only bright spots in what were otherwise very dismal and for­getable Irish performances. "Bjork was breaking down the wing on the last two assists," says Metzler. "I spotted him breaking and fed him. He (Bjork) did all the rest. He put them away." Metzler ( 5-11, 175 pounds) is a junior right wing hailing from Niagara Falls, N.Y. He impressed Smith in freshman tryouts two years ago and made the team as a walk-on. "Mike came to us without us even knowing anything about him," says Smith. "Niagara Falls is not a hotbed for high school hockey talent. He's got an excellent attitude and a nasty shot. "Mike's biggest asset is his scoring ability. His drawbacks are his speed and quickness, but he has worked hard at improving them and has got­ten better." His freshmen season, Metzler played sparingly due to a thigh in­
jury incurred during Christmas break action. The misfortune sidelined him until the final weekend ofthe season. 
"It was disappointing,'' says the New Yorker. "Just when I was about to play (on a more regular basis), I got hurt." 
Last season, his sophomore year, saw Metzler play in only 10 games. When injuries kept Bjork, Mark Doman and Jeff Perry out of the lineup, Metzler was called on each time to substitute for them. He made the most of his limited icetime by scoring four goals and tallying one assist. 
"I was kind of itchy with my playing time," says Metzler. "When I did play, I scored, and I felt I played pretty well. It was the coach's thought that it would be to the benefit of the team if the other guys (older players) would play more." 
Presently Metzler is tied for second in scoring on the team with three goals and five assists for eight points. He credits his success to being able to play with Bjork, John Deasey and Steve Bianchi. 
Metzler sees his role on the team as a scorer. "I don't see myself changing much from being a scorer to being a playmaker," he says. "I've always had the confidence that I could score and feed people." 
That's just what Metzler and his teammates will have to do this weekend if they entertain any thoughts of beating visiting Michi­gan Tech. 
Tomorrow and Saturday night the Irish will play host to the Huskies of Michigan Tech, who have vaulted out of the CCHA basement into a three-way tie for second place be­cause of six straight victories. They are 6-2 in the CCHA and 6-4 overall 
Last weekend, the Huskies swept a pair from the Wolverines of Michi­gan, and in doing so scored 18 goals. 
Head CoachJim Nahrgang is in his first season at Tech. He stepped in following John Mclnness' retire­ment after 25 years of coaching be-
See METZLER ,page 8 


