.~ee centerfold-/Jaf?e 1 0 
' 


VOL. X\'1, NO. I·W the indqll"mknt ~~ udl"nt lll'w'p;qwr ~lT\ in~ not rc: daml· and ~aint mary\ FRIDAY. APRIL :\0, 19H2 
For next year 
University ends Mexican program 
Also, the credits which the stu­dents earn duing the academic year would not be included in the com­putation of their four-year grade point averages at the University of 
Notre Dame. 
Those who choose to study in Mexico will continue to receive financial aid. In addition to paying the same tuition and fees that on­campus students pay, program par­ticipants will no longer receive the allowance for travel, laundry, and cultural activities that those en­rolled in the Anahuac program receive. 
Also, although students are in­formed that there is a possibility of receiving "some refund" because of cost differences between Notre Dame and lberoamericana, they have been told that they "will have 
some processing charges." 
The decision to suspend the Anahuac program was made by As­sistant Provost Sr. John MiriamJones after reviewing a report submitted to the Provost's office by Dr. Parnell. 
In addition to the five Notre Dame students seminarians from Moreau were preparing to spend next year in Mexico. Problems arose when the two seminarians opted to par­ticipate in the social justice program at lbcroamericana. 
Because the number of par­
ticipants in the Anahuac program 
has usually averaged between eight 
See VOTE, page 6 

Businessp1Jase oui? 
NDgrads debate colleges purpose 
terviews with executives from nell, New York University and llar­
By MARY AGNES CAREY 
American Telephone and Telegraph, varll Graduate Schools of Busines~
Se11ior StajfReporter 
Chemical Bank, New York,). Walter who stress the importance: of liberal Thompson advertising and public education in a husiness career.
Almost four hundred graduating ,,

lie cites that many courses in theseniors are enrolled in Notre Dame's 
" 
undergraduate business pro~ramundergraduate College of Business aren't "intellectually demanding.
Administration hut they might be "I've talked to some very hright
better prepared for the husiness (business school) graduates that
world with a liberal arts degree, didn't work too hard," he says. Busi·according to Newsweek magazine ness disciplines, such as accounting,writer Kenneth L. Woodward. 
arc "techniques" to Woodward whoIn an article from February's relations firm, Metropolitian Life In­states that many companies would
"Notre Dame Magazine," Wood­surance, Co., General Foods and ward, a ''i7 ND graduate, charges General Electric as well as See FOCUS, page 4 that ND husiness graduates fail to representatives from Wharton, Cor­develop "skills to handle (the) com­plexity" of the business world. 
"However well they are taught," Woodward explains in the article, "those subjects (marketing, 
Student receives fine 
advertising and other purely voca­tional subjects) have no place at a university devoted to a serious un­

for drinking beer 
dergraduate education." 
were being careful with the beer.
ByJACK AMARO
ND management professor John One student, however, was not fast
News Stuff
W. Houck, however, defends the enough in hiding his beer, and the business program in an article A student in Stanford Hall was assistant rector caught him holdingfollowing Woodward's, explaining 
fined S I 00 last week for drinking a it.
its existance in a liberal arts environ­When told to put the beer down,beer in an interhall hockey game.
ment. 
The fine was imposed by Dean of the student refused and, instead,A liberal arts degree, Woodward finished drinking it. The assistantStudents James Roemer after argues, provides the variety of Brother Viator Grzeskowiak, the rector later brought the case to the courses individuals need to progress 
rector of Stanford, referred the inci­rector.
in management. Although business According to the student, Grzes­dent to him.
graduates are required to take at kowiak told him he would assign the
According to the student, whose
least 54 hours in the arts and student some hours of work as aname was withheld, the incident oc­sciences (and can take up to 7 4 ), curred two weeks before break in an penalty. They agreed to meet theWoodward contends that these interhall hockey game at the ACC. next Saturday at I0:.30 in the mom­courses are often viewed simply as 
The student said that a group ofStan­ing.
requirements to be completed, not ford residents were watching the That morning, the student said,integrated into a business student's game and drinking some beer. Grzeskowiak was not on time for thecurriculum. 
Because of the presence of Stan­See FINE, page 3His article features a month of in­
ford's assistant rector, the students 
By CAROL CAMP Mexico could "apply tor a 'study Se,lior StuffReporter leave' from the University of Notre Dame." 
Due to a "lack of a viable number Instead of participating in the of participants," the Mexico foreign Anahuac program, which is ex­studies program at the University of clusively designed for Notre Dame Anahuac has been suspended for students, students would enroll in a 
191-!2-191-!.3. 11:1tional program at the Universidad 
Participants in the program were lberoamericana. informed of the cancellation yester­The emphasis of the llay by Director of Foreign Studies lberoamericana program, however, Dr. Charles Parnell. In a letter is geared toward social justice rather adllres~cd to program participants, than academics; therefore, the Parnell stated that those who still program's goals and purpose con­wished to spt·nd the 191-!2-1-!.3 year in trast sharply with those of Anahuac. 
===========--==-=--=-=-=--=:=====-­
$180 tnillion raised , funds distributed 
By MICHELE DIETZ development ollicc shows that out SeniorStujJReporter of the S92 million quota for academic excellence and Church Where: has all the money gone? service programs, only S42. 'i mil­S I HO. 'i million wa' raised be­lion was actually committed, which twn·n 197'i ami 19H I in the Cam­is not "71 percent of the the goal... paign h>r Notre Dame, the latest and But an extra sum of approximately largc:M fund raiser to support various J'i6 million was committed as arc:a~ of the: llnivc:rsity. "current use unrestricted" ;md "all In thl-~t· hard economic times, other" endowment funds, which e~pt·dally in tht· arc:a of ~tudcnt aid, have not yet been earmarked tor use. one: wonllt·r~ on what Notre Dame is When funds are raised in cam­~pending this money. paigns such as these, most of the 
The campai~n. based on a Com­money is "restricted" or designated mittt'l" on llniversity Priorities by the donor for specific usc. Some (COliP), set out to raise S1.30 mil­funds, however, are "unrestricted'' lion, hut managed to gather I jl-!.4 or not so specified. pt·rcent of its quota from con­The use for the unrestricted funds tributors across the nation. has yet to be decided. The Board of 
According to the tina) report of Trustees will make this decision in the Campaign for Notre: Dame, "71 their meeting on May 7. percent of the ~oal was earmarked Although the quota for the en­for endowment to undergird future dowment of academic excellence academic excellence and to and Church service programs was strt·ngtht•n Notre Dame's programs not met by "restricted" or specifical­in service: to the Church. Another ly designated funds, the quota for 
S29.5 million wa~ sought for physi­physical facilities ( S29 million) was 
cal facilities as well as SH. 7 million in met, ( $31 million was committed) unrestricted current-use funds." and the quota for unrestricted funds According to the: report, "all three ( SH. 7 million) was met in excess goals were met... 
See FUNDS, page 7 The lal<·st breakdown from the 



Lack o jintellectua zsm concerns faculty rep 
By KELLY RYAN 
News Stuff 
A representative of the Faculty Senate expressed concern over the: lack of intellectualism among Notre Dame students at last night's tina) meeting of the Campus Life Council. 
According to Robert Vacca, a professor in the Department of Modern and Classical Languages, the faculty feels that new social space should be created to foster an environment ofinformal learn­ing. lie noted that Notre Dame students are too task-orieted in their studies. 
No resolution~ were made hut the: faculty will discuss these issues in a met·ting next week. 
In other news, the CLC was presented with changes in duLac for next year. New res1rktions will be placed on solicitation within the llorm1>, but will not affect food sales. 
Also, a change in poster advertisment procedures will be imple­mented next year. All merchandising posters will need approval by the Student Activities Office. This is to clean up the bulletin boards in the dorms. 
Elevated hells will now need approval by the Office of Student Resiliences bcf(>re installation. Smoke alarms will also he required by those having elevated beds for safety reasons. Students must supply their own alarms. 
Finally, the hall j-boards will no longer handle drug-related cases. These cases will now be heard exclusively by rectors and the Dean ofStudents. 
lr---~-

NewsBrie/§ 
By The ( >hser11er and The Associated Press 
Rev. Theodore Hesburgh will enter the Guin­ness Book of World Record this sring as he eclipses Herbert Hoover's 89 honorary degrees. He will receive his 90th honorary degree June 12 from Kalamazoo College in Michigan. Hoover amassed his total before he died at the age of90. Hesburgh, who will be 65 this May and who recently agreed to five more years as Notre .Dame's president, received his first LL.D. from Le Moyne College in his hometown of Syracuse, N.Y. in 1954, two years after becoming president of Notre Dame. Fr. Hesburgh has been honored by 81 in­stitutions of higher learning in the U.S., including six of eight Ivy League universities and nine foreign schools. Thirty-three of the 90 degrees have come from Catholic colleges or universities. This spring, Hesburgh is scheduled to receive five other honorary degrees in advance ofKalamazoo's -New York University, Indiana 
State Univ., Madonna College, Loyola Marymount Univ., and Hah· nemann Medical College and Hospital. -The Ohw•rver 
Singer Mick Jagger said yesterday he would like to tour Communist Eastern Europe with the Rolling Stones, but it just would not be profitable. The veteran rock star was in Vienna, Austria to promote a nine-nation concert tour this summer. "It's not easy to play in Eastern Europe," Jagger said at a news conference. "You lose a lot of money." Organizers said they hoped fans from Eastern Europe would travel to this central European capital for a July 3 concert in a soccer stadium that seats 60,!)00 pople. Jagger said Solidarity, the independent Polish union suspended last Dec. 13 un­der martial law, had invited the Rolling Stones to play in Poland on the union's first anniversary last August. The group could not make it 
because it was touring the United States. -AP 
A week-long series of govern~ent raids to remove il­
legal aliens from jobs that could be held by unemployed Americans 
has run into growing criticism and a court· challenge. About 3,500 
people have been arrested by the U.S. Immigration and Naturaliza­
tion Service in nine cities since Monday, and clergymen, politicians 
and minority groups in several of those cities have expressed 
outrage. In Denver, the Roman Catholic archbishop and the Epis· 
copal bishop signed a statement Wednesday protesting the 
"Operation jobs" crackdown. One priest said he is willing to harbor 
illegal aliens in his church, "just as the church served as a refuge in 
the Middle Ages." Immigration officials in Detroit said they had to 
release 71 of the 107 snared in that city when their families 
produced papers showing they were working legally after all. The 
other 36, they said, "probably will be deported." In Los Angeles, 
attorneys for an immigrant rights group won a federal court order 
Wednesday barring the imminent deportation of ISO of 425 
Mexicans arrested in that city. -AP 
The United States will accept between Io,ooo and 30,000 Cambodian refugees for permanent resettlement, the American Embassy in Bangkok, Thailand said yesterday. The United States has not accepted any Cambodian refugees for about a year, abiding by requests from the Thai government and the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees to hold offacceptances while a program of voluntary repatriation was attempted, a spokesman said. The spokesman said the idea has not been abandoned but the Thai government asked that resettlement be resumed. -AP 
Sheilah O'Flynn Brennan a member of the philosophy faculty at Notre Dame since 1971, has been named to receive the 1982 Sheedy Award of the college of Arts and Letters. Presentation of the award, which includes a S1000 check from an anonymous donor, will be made at the fall meeting of the college's advisory board. A native ofCanada, Brennan is a specialist in process philosophy, and has received three degrees from Laval University in Quebec. She completed post-doctoral work at Oxford Univ. In England and has been awarded prizes and medals for highest achievement in her university work. The Sheedy award was named for a former dean of the college, Rev. Charles Sheedy, and honors an "outstanding teacher in Arts and Letters." Recipients present a talk outlining their philosophies of teaching at the time of the award presentation. -The Observer 

Prime Minister Indira GandhiofIndia may put off until as late as December a visit to the United States that had been tentatively planned for July, officials in New Delhi said yesterday. The U.S. Embassy had earlier in the day said the visit was postponed. Foreign Ministry spokesman Mani Shanker at first denied there had been a postponement, saying that was not possible since dates were never set. Later the government said a delay toward the end of the year was possible. The Times ofIndia newspaper said Mrs. Gandhi's visit to the Soviet Union in June and to America in July ~re being rescheduled because "second thoughts seem to have occurred on the usefulness of the prime minister paying visits to two countries within a narrow distance of a month." Mrs. Gandhi had planned to link her Moscow visit with a trip to Finland, Denmark and Norway. A report from a Danish Foreign Ministry source in Copenhagen said the Scandinavian visit was to start there June 15 but was canceled because of Indian political developments, a possible reference to presidential elections in late june. Shanker denied any Scandinavian 
itinerary had been set. -AP 
Increasing ClOUdineSS Friday with highs in the mid 60s. Tonight, cloudy with a 40 percent chance for showers and lows in the upper 40s. A chance for morning showers Saturday, then mostly cloudy and cool with highs in the low 60s. -AP 

Friday, April 30, 1982 -page 2 

Keeping life's options open 

meet their fates in the "real 
kid-types, and spend two world," since I find myself weeks a year either staringat eligible for an extra year of a barbed hook immersed in academics, meaning it won't the water ofa mountain lake be until next year that I'll or worse, trapped in a sta­finally grab my diploma and tion wagon filled with all flee. their screaming progeny 
The years spent as an un­who only remember Old dergraduate, are the time of Faithful as being the place metamorphosis between they spit up. youthood and adulthood. Granted this is an extreme The values, ideals, and case, but my point is don't beliefs of a lifetime are be too quick to tie yourself shaped during this time. In down. A college diploma comparison, when you en­comes with a lifetime war­
tered high school you were ranty. It won't rust, or decay, 
a kid, and when you or even become obsolete. 
graduated, you were still a It's yours to cherish for 
Four years ago, a flock of bright-faced youths des­cended upon Notre Dame and Saint Mary's to'form the class of 1982. At that point in time the idea of ever becoming a senior seemed a bleal' prospect, years and years away. Yet four years later, that bleak prospect has become a reality, and the bright faces have been replaced by the confident scowls ofexperience. 
Looking back, it doesn't seem like four years. The 
beauty of time is that when it looms before you it ap· 
pears a huge interminable morass,. but as it goes by, last 
week seems like yesterday and last year seems like last 
week. · 
It is hard to imagine that my best friend is probably 
going on to a lucrative job with a big advertising firm in 
Chicago. I first met him one balmy August night four 
years past, and happily discussed the logos companies 
use to represent themselves. Or that the same nice 
young girl! met at freshman reegistration is now one of 
the class's co-valedictorians and in just a few short days 
will be addressing thousands of people including a 
world leader. 
The class of 1982 entered colkge as a bunch of kids 
and whether they are ready for it or not, they are 
graduating as a bunch of adults. I personally have the 
luxury of being able to sit 
back and watch my friends 
kid, somewhat cockier, but 
still a kid. 
However, when entering the mainstream oflife after college, no kids are allowed. Whether you are ready for it or not, the government's going to want tax returns and this time you may owe them money. No longer can you go merrily about in a blizzard of bouncing checks; you have a credit rating to worry about, especially if you want to buy anything on credit--and what red­blooded Amerian.doesn't? All those bills that will come 

piling in you'll havee to take full responsibility for, since you parents are now exhausted after helping pay for what they saw as a four year vacation. 
Being an adult carries certain behavior requirements too. Staying out and drinking until six in the morning and then rolling into Shirley's on a weeknight is frowned upon by employers, who also aren't too pleased if you confuse your job for a class and blow it off at will. 
Relations with the opposite sex take on a new significance--especially as one climbs the .ladder ~uccess. Pretty soon obscure Aunts are saying: "So have you met any nice girls yet?" or worse:When are you going to find a nice boy and settle down? Those who bounce merrily from companion to companion may soon find themselves branded as playboys, rogues, or loose skirts. 
Turning to graduate school does not insure a con· tinuance of the undergrad experience.·lfanything even more highbrow behavior is called for. When was the last time you saw a bunch of graduate engineering majors cutting loose at Corby's on a Thursday night? 
Thus while post graduation years may preclude some ofthe earlier inanities orearlier days, one shouldn't take that to mean life's fun has ended. Many rush from graduation party straight intO the arms of employers. Forty years later, they retire. Along the way, they get 
married--hopefully 
once--have numerous 
good. Thus there's no need 
to rush into a career in your chosen profession. Con­
sider living in a part of the country you've never ex­
perienced. Before you lock yourself into life's destiny, 
consider the alternatives.· Take advantage of the new­
found absolute freedom ofadulthood. 
You can put the silliness ofthe past four years behind you; with the demands of maturity comes the oppor­tunities, .as well. Take the time to explore 'life so that when you do start a career, a marriage, a family, it's be­cause you are ready. Don't let yourself turn thirty and suddenly wonder why you've wasted the past eight or nine years. Take the tools you've acquired in college and apply them to a practical education in life. 

The views expressed in the Inside column are .the views ofthe author, and do not necessarily represent the views ofThe Observeror its editorial board. 

Mother's Day is Sunday, May 9. 
Design Editor.................. Gregory Swiercz Design Asslstants.. ...................... )im Keyes Typese/lers................ .... Bob Judge News Asslsta•ll ....................... Dave Sarphie Copy Editors ......................... Michele Dietz Features Layout....................... Joe and Tari Sports Copy Editor ............... Mike Ortman 'Typist...... .. ..... Laura Degnan ND Day Editor .....................Joe Musemeci ·Ad Design .................................John & Mary Photographer ......................... Cheryl Ertel! Guest Appearar~ces.. ........ many more and 
Marili•n's goodcookies 
The Observer !USPS 598 9201 IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students of 'Notre Dame and Sa1n1 Marys Col­lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer rs a member of The Associated Press All reproductron nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lndrana 46556 

Send flowers to tha.t girl back home. 
This Mother's Day, remember Mom with an FTD* Big Hug® Bouquet. A beautiful arrangement of fresh flow­ers in a distinctive Ceramic Pot. Just stop by your near­est FTD® Florist before May 9, and send the FTD Big Hug Bouquet. It's a special Mother's Day gift the girl back home won't ever forget. 
Sendyour love with special 0 care.. 
The FTD Big Hug Bouquet is generally available for less than $18.50. As independent retailers. FTD Florists set their own prices. Individual pnces may vary: Service charges ·and delivery may be additional. < 1982 Flonsts Transworld Delivery Association. ·~Registered trademark of Flonsts Transworld Delivery Association. •A cooper­atrvel ownt'" noral wrre and membershi rv· 



Friday, April 30,_ 1982 -page 3

The Observer 
CJonnnnencennent 
Nine join Trudeau for degrees 
By MICHELE DIETZ American Corporation of year-olds, many of them disad­Set1iorStaffReporter Johnstown, Penn., the 13th largest vantaged. real estate development firm in the Fr. Walter ). Ong, a humanist 
Cyrus Vance and Frank Pasqueril­nation. The company owns 19 malls, known for his inquiries into the la are two familiar names among 17 community strip centers, eight evolmion ofconsciousness, is anoth· nine to join Canadian Prime Minister motor inns, and 29 retail outlets. er of the degree recipients. Profes­
Pierre Trudeau in recetvmg sor of English and of humanities in honorary doctor of laws degrees at One Notre Dame alumnus who is 
psychiatry at St. Louis University and Notre Dame's I 37tl\ commence­a trustee at Notre Dame, john Caron, 
author of 15 books since 1957, Ong ment exercises May 16. is included in the recipients. Caron has also examined the problems of is the presil.lent of Caron Interna­contemporary man in relation to the Vance, former Secretary of State, American Catholic tral.lition.
tional of New York, the largesttook office in 1977 under President Other degree recipients include
manufacturer of hand knitting yarnsJimmy Carter, resigned in the wake in the United States. A former presi­Sarah Caldwell, founder and artistic of the aborted Iranian hostage l.lent of the National Conference of director of the Opera Co. of Boston, rescue attempt in April 1980 and has Robert H. Bork, former solicitor
Christian employers and a former now returned to his original posi­adviser to the Peace Corps and general of the United States and a tion as a Wall Street attorney. VISTA, Caron is a frequent par· judge on the U.S. Court ofAppeals in ticipant in business ethics programs Washington, D.C., A. Bartlett 
Vance has a history of negotiating at the University, and is also active in Giamatti, I9th president ofYale Uni­skill in public service, including 
self-help community action versity, anl.l Stephen W. Hawking,positions under John F. Kennedy as 
programs in New York City and professor of mathematics at general counsel for the Department 
Cambridge University, discoverer of
Greenwich, Conn.

of Defense anl.l Secretary of the 
the so-called "black holes" in the Army, under Lyndon Johnson as "Sesame Street" creator and universe, and a speaker last year at HI FOLKS!--Dan,Dan, tbe 7 month old Giant Panda, appears to Deputy Secretary of Defense, and in enjoy his popularity as a No. I Peking Zoo attraction recently.
television executive Joan Ganz the Notre Dame lecture series 1968-69 as the deputy chief Conceived by artificial insemination, Dan Dan weighed but 100
Cooney also joins Trudeau in this observing the International Year of delegate to the Paris peace talks on 
grams at birth. Now she's a plump and growing I 7 kg. (APPhoto)
honor. President of the Children's Disabled Persons. 
Vietnam. 
Television Workshop in New York In addition to the honorary de-Frank). Pasquerilla will join Vance City, which also produces "The gree can_didates,Jo~n Cardinal Dea_r· A •••••••••••••••••••••• 
as another of the honorary degree Electric Company" and "3-2·1 Con-den, rettred Archb1shop of DetrOit, f' , ricipients. A benefactor of the Uni· tact," Cooney is also a consultant to will receive the University's Laetare • : verslty, Pasquerilla gave J7 million the Carnegie Corp. ofN.Y. on the use Medal, an annual award given to dis-: E d• : 
to Notre Dame to build two of television in the education of tinguishedAmericanCatholicssince • 
veryone atten mg • 
residence halls for women. preschoolers. "Sesame Street" 1883. Dearden is the second priest : : Pasquerilla is president and chair· reaches approximately half of the and first bishop to receive the : : 
=m=a=n===of===th=e===bo==ar=d===o=f==C=r=o=w=n===n=a=ti=o=n=·s==l=2==m=·=·u=io=n===th=r=e=e·=to=·=fi=v=e=-===h=o=n=o=r·==================== i ~JhLe <::)lJ~erver i 
... Fine ! 'gathering' t1hLi~ Sunday i 

Ten days ago the student received record, for example) except the in­conti11uedjrom page I a letter from the rector indicating fraction. There is not any situation in 
i• MUS~ i• 
that he "has gotten tired of waiting which this fine can be made smallermeeting, so he went to work in the 
•

for him," and that he had "referred than it is. It is in Dulac and is my job
dining hall. The student said Grzeskowiak did 
the matter to Dean Roemer". to make sure that Dulac is followed." 
i• BRINGA i• 
not contact him about the incident again, and because ofthe seeming in· According to the student, Roemer 
• 

significance of the incident, he simply asked the student if he was • • 
Roemer added that the rector : 21 •d :guilty in the incident. When the stu­
thought Grzeskowiak had decided should have referred the case in-: 1. • :
dent replied that he was, Roemer

to forget the incident. mediately to the administration be-• · •· • • 
assessed the SI00 fine. Grezes· 

cause "it was in the ACC and not in .......................4
kowiak refusel.l to comment on the the hall."

fine. 

Stanford Hall residents in the stu· dent's section are collecting money "A TOUR-DE-FORCE... 
Roemer justified the fine on the 

to pay the fine. One resident com­
MY DINNER WITH ANDRE is a unique
basis of a directive from September 

mented, "the punishment does not 4, 198I stating that the fine for seem to fit the crime." 
mixture of wit, poignance, pathos and 
drinking alcohol at any campus 

dazzling, thought-provoking intellectual 
facility is Sl 00. 
vaudeville."

They are considering the pos­Roemer stressed that "there is no sibility of a jogathon to help the stu­
-Joseph Gelmis. Newsday 
way that you can be clearer in a dent in paying the fine and to show regulation. If you drink and you get their displeasure with the ad· 
"A UNIQUE, 

caught, you are supposed to pay ministration's procedure. 
BRIWANT FILM."
Anyone interested in helping out Roemer said that he "l.lid not care should contact Richard Bartolomei $100." 
-Roger Ebert, Chicago Sun-Times 
for any other fact (the student's past at 221 Stanford Hall. 
STARTS FRIDAY
1982

Corby's 



MAY e 

Sun Mon Tue Wed Thur 
Schedule of Events (put in a safe place) 
Fri Sat 
1 
Surprise 8
Old Mils
Super 
4 
16oz. 5 
7
6 
10-close
2112 oz.
Molson Day 
Margaritas 
Spec1ol
Old Mils 
drafts 
Old Mil Pitcher
Bottles 51 
51
.95 
$2.50
51
Draft.75 
2-elose 
2-10
3-12 
3-10
3-12 
Senior 
Straw 
14
Molson13 
Old 15
12
Molson 11 
Brunch 
Margaritas
Pitchers 
Mil Pitcher
Bottles 
2-6 
.75 
$2.50
$2.95
Sl 
Champagne 
2-7
2-7
3-12 
2-7 
21 
22
20
19
18 



Last Class 3
2 Day
Day 
Happy Hour 
;a.'12ozbottles Schlitz Ute Sl
of 
Rest 
3-12 
10
9 
Day 
UveMusic of 
Straw Daqs Rest 
allnite 
17
16 
~,o~ 
1982
TO CLASS OF
0\}0 
CON~RATUL~TIONS 
(:,\0 
I . 
29

"sTWlsHeSc:FRoMYouR,.fRIEND'~ A! Corby's 


1 Mile North ol NOTRE DAME on U.S. 31 North • (211) 277-1522
31 


~0 



-~----------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer 
...Focus 



ness school, Houck believes, "are as states that business undergrads need
continuedfrom page 1 

rigorous as most engineering or technical training, yet he questions science courses. lower of liberal arts
"rather teach them (college I don't think Ken the amount graduates) their own techniques." Woodward knows the analytical courses students enrolled in Commenting on NO's marketing rigor that's found in most business engineering and science are re­courses." quired to take.
program, "it's the phoniest major As far as employment, the "I see a lot of enthusiasm for
they offer there," he says. Houck, a 25-year veteran profes­management professor states that liberal arts courses...my impression sor of management in the 61 year­businesses are "asking for people is they enjoy them." Pass/Fail op­with specific backgrounds," stu­tions are also available for business
old business college, says "the trick students to "reach out and take
is to encourage our business student dents with the type of training the 

to see more deeply what business is business program for under­courses where they didn't have graduates provides. much ofa background'' in other sub­
about and how it contributes to the common good." "I know what the facts are over at jects. "The challenge to Notre Dame is the placement bureau," he explains. Many stereotypes, too, exist be­not to abolish (the school of busi­"I don't think he has a grasp of the tween the humanities and business, Houck says, without "very much of
ness ) ...the challenge is to redeem it realities...the critical importance of an attempt to 'bridge"' the gap.
~ bring in humanities...to the the situation."
Salvadoran troopers line up before going on patrol 

Like students enrolled in Houck agrees that the business
powerful constitution ofbusiness." 
near this town in the Province ofMorazon 140 

The courses offered by the busi-engineering and science, Houck curriculum needs improvement, yet
milesNortheast ofSan Salvador. ( AP Photo) 
abolishing the business school entirely in favor of a liberal arts de­gree with a concentration in a specific business area, as Woodward suggests, would undermine the purpose ofthe program. 
"I want more history in business courses," Houck, a '54 ND graduate in history explains, "we need to relate some of the great books and the great themes." 
Provost Timothy O'Mearasays the curriculums in every college of the University are in "a constant state of change and upgrading." 
The "striking evolution" has begun to improve both the under­graduate and graduate programs as well as to strengthen the area of research. Defining the "core of liberal education...the central thing graduates leave with," will also be a result. 

O'Meara sites that "great flexibility" exists in the business school, and he hopes that business students view liberal arts require­ments (and electives) as "a very refreshing compliment to what they're doing." Liberal arts students, as well, he explaines, should be just as eager to take business and science courses. 
All programs at the University, he says, should "underscore basic prin­ciples, not technique." 
Although O'Meara believes one can enter business through several areas, he acknowledges that businesses often prefer to hire busi­ness graduates over liberal arts grads. Woodward cites several cor­porations who do not follow this policy, but, O'Meara comments, this philosophy "does not filter down to those doing the hiring." 
According to Placement Director

c c Richard D. Willemin, 106 firms visited campus to interview liberal arts graduates for positions such as sales or entry-level management,
c c 

while 222 firms interviewed busi­
ness grads (some firms interviewed 
both).
c 
c 
"Employers are a pragmatic group," he says. A liberal arts
to scoff up the half-dollar. Be­
graduate may have the same intel­
[] cause you're not supposed to by Steve Mizerak 
ligence, ability, personality and wil­
c
lose money doing trick 
lingness to learn as a business grad,
I'm gonna teach you shots-just win Lite Beers. knock the coin out of the circle. 
but often must be trained, and that

coupla thin~s that'll 1) · THE COIN TRKK Chances are, they won't be able costs money.
c c

press your fnends, and 2) This one drives people nuts. Place to (this is a good time to work on Programs such as the Arts and Let­lose some friends. a ball on the head spot With the chalk, your Lite Beer and act smug). ters Program for AdministratorsAll you need is good eyesight, make a circle around it, approximately When you shoot, do one of two 
(ALPA) and the Computer Applica­

a little dexterity, and three essen­8" in diameter. Then put a quarter or things: hit the object ball head-on tions Major (CAPP) are alsotials: a pool table, pool cue, and half-dollar on top of the ball. (Yes, you with follow-through so the cue ball available to students who want to in­some Lite Beer from Miller. knocks the coin out, or hit the cue 
c c 
can use the same one from before, or 
tegrate other courses into their
ball very, very slowly so the coin you can write home to your parents 

Here's a goodie. I call it the again.) Place the cue ball behind the rolls off the object ball. "A liberal arts student should "Cheap Shot:' Place a ball on the foot line and have your friends try to TABLE MANNERS know what that type of education edge of the corner pocket. Then, Now for simple table etiquette. will do for them," Willemin con­
c CHEAP SHOTS c liberal arts program. 
c c

take a half-dollar and lean it After you've "hustled" your cludes. against the side rail at the other friends, you gotta keep 'em. So do end of the table. (If you don't have what I call "Clearing the Table:· 
a half-dollar, you can always write Simply offer to buy the next round home to your parents: they'd love of Lite Beer. They'll all clear the to hear from you.) table fast and head for the bar (or 
Tell your friends you're gonna to your room or apartment). Then, 
c c 
c c
sink the ball in the corner, using once they all have Lite (just one the half-dollar as a cue ball. It's not apiece--you're not too rich, re­hard. Hit the coin solidly on the member), tell them with Lite in 
c cedge, just above the center, and it hand and a smirk on your face that will roll along the rail knocking the your shots were no big deal-you ball in the pocket. But don't forget were just showin' off. 
c c 
[] [] 




·---------------­The Observer Friday, April 30, 1982 page 5 
Leads to alcoholism 

Alcohol wrorries psych services 

ByJACK AMARO drinkers. Tht· studv further dassitied chological Scvices, Dr. Wayne Neu·s .\lajf the six groups into the types of al­Pelligrini, discussed an alcohol cohol drunk most frequently: heer. study that was made over a period of Notre Dame stut.knts drink, ami wine. or hard liquor. two years hut was just recently they drink a lot. Psychological Of the eighteen divisions that released. According to Dr. Pelligrini, Services has long known this. In fact, were compared to a national survey the study indicated that the typical a study made some time ago verilkd Psychological Services conduded alcoholic student is white, male, statistically that Notre Dame has an that Notre Dame students drink upper-middle class, preprofessional 
akohol ahuse problem. more akohol in fourteen of the clas­(that is f'itht·r medkim·. hu~iness. or The study analyzed six categories siticat ions. engineering), and Catholic. 
ofdrinkt·rs, from ahMainers to heavy Alcohol Ahuse Consultant for Psy-Pelligrini noted the important dif­ference between an alcoholic and an alcohol abuser. The two are not synonomous. Abusers choose freely
An T ostal celebration 
to get drunk, hut an alcoholic drinks without any means of stopping. An 


6. an overall success' 
alcholic drinks and cannot help it. The fact of the matter is, however,

By LAURA DEGNAN at S.\IC was the most sut-ct·ssful ft-s­that one out of every six drinkers
Neu•s Stajf tivity this year, atTortling to someday become alcoholics,
Cawneen. The Friday t·vc:nts on the according to fr. Joseph Martin. who

This year's An Tostal festivitit•s South Quad wc:re well attendnl. and spoke recently at Notre Dame ahout
wne an overall success, according so were Rt•t-c:ss and the \lidnight alcoholism.
10 Kevin Cawnt·en, tht· IW-12 An To!'t­,\lovic, both held in .'->tepan Center. 
Yet Dr. Peg Cronin, alcohol abuse

tal Commi!'tsioner. 
The only disappoilllment came at consultant, said that alcoholics rare­

<:awnnn·n attrihutt•s this sutTess tht· Irish feis, an event hdd at Stepan ly believe they have a problem. They
to the work of tht· stall and commit­on Saturday night. An allendance of might know many other people who
tee liJr this year's n·lebration, as well -tOO to SilO students was extx•t'tt:d, drink more than they do on certain
as to the hll'l that this was the Hrst An but only 6S showed up. Cawneen at­nights or people who in one week
Tostal in tiJur years which had good 
may consume more than they will. CDR Richard Ounstan, l!S.V, presents the Ntll~l' l.eague-.VW In­
tributes the failure of the event,weatlll'r. 

which was supposed to replace the But often these pf:ople are just al­diana Council .\jJecial Ac1Jie1•ement .-IU'ard to jason Tullai, u•bo
The An Tostal Commission 
also receir•ed the American /Jeji!nse Preparedness Association
annual Irish Wake, to the ban on al­cohol abusers, Cronin noted, not al­stressed involvement of as many 

Au•an/, tll_l'eslerdaJ''s .VROTC tiU'tlrds cei'I'JJ/011)'. (photo by Cbt•ry•l
cohol in Stepan. fie also ldt that t·oholics.

peopk as possible as its major ob­everyone r ,_~ such a good time on Alcoholism is an illness, Martin Ertel/)
jective, and in that Cawnt•en felt ht· Saturday that the Feis came as an an-said, and there is a dangerous cor­
r...............iij!iji...iiQi\8~....N ..............i
SUCCCl'tkd. 
The: Beer (iankn Thursday night tidimax to the day's activitit.·s. relation bt·tween alcohol abusers and alcoholics because alcohol is very addictive. Some alcohol 
~SATURDAY, MAY 1 *LIVE MUSIC BY DR. ZIR'~ 
abuser~. of course, may nevt·r



Right-to-life sends 
bt·come alcoholics hut there is al­

4 PM-2 AM ~~ ~J •MAGIC PERFORMED
ways that p'Ossibility. Following \, BY MIKE WEBER How can ont· tell the difference' There are se\-eral tests used to
postcards to Senators BL(!fn·o«;>to~e~a:.z:r ~-~* PL::~~:MER'TS 
determine this. The llrst one is By MARC RAMIREZ tion..." called the "two-thirds" test. In this News Staff The hill will ht· voted on by the test, one eliminates two-thirds ofthe ~=Limited Tix at South Dining Hall Donation $5.00 
Senate in ahout a week. It differs average amount of alt'ohol usually Buses run to and from main circle every 20 minutes. One thousand post cards are on from the proposed Hatch Amend­nmsumed, and then 1ries to survive. 
! All ticket holders must board bus. 
'!'1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 .....................................................................,
their way from Notre Dame to Wash­ment in that it detines To be efiC:ctive the test should be 
ington, D.C., as a result of a campus "personhood." The Hatch Amend­done for at least a week. 
,...,........,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,....,,,,1
Right-To-Life: campaign urging ment would give the states the Another test is known as the "acid members of the Senate to pass the authority to restrkt abortion. lest." where one only goes out llelms !Iuman Life: Bill. drinking with friends after establish­
!.;1st Monday, tables were st·t up in John May, legislative chairman of ing a rational amount of drinking 10 the North and South Dining Halls at the campus Right-to-Life organiza­do. The suggested limit is tlve beers. which students could sign postcards tion, urges interested persons to If a person taing any of these tests i SKY D~ i that would he sent to the senators of. write their senators. "The reason we fails, there is a possibility that the 
~ ~ ~ 
their respective horne states. are pushing the Helms Bill is that it person is an alcoholic. Yet experts The postcards declared students' gets to the root of the problem -it say that if a person fails twice, he/she I ~ ~ opposition to legal abortion on defines 'personhood.''' :\1ay said. is an alcoholic. 

~ ...._ I 
dem;md and ent·ouraged senators to People interested in writing their .\!any students nen·r recognizt· vote against any proposals which senators can write to them at the the alcohol problem. Cronin says 
' ~ ~ I ~ ~ 
would weaken the Helms Human Senate Otlkt· Building, Washington. many students think that alcohol Life Hill. One thousand poM cards D.C. 20S I 0. abuse is just a parJ ofcollege life and 
~ 171 I 
wen.· printed, and all were signed "You have to write soon," .\lay it will pass after graduation. Cronin and sent. emphasized, "since tht· hill will he agreed that such a hopt· is mis­
The Helms hill states that "for the voted on in a wed;. It's tremendous­guided. The alcoholic willt·ontinue purpost· of enforcing the obligation ly important that this goes through to have the problem until treatment of thr states...not to deprive persons for us. If it doesn't it will he st·veral is sought, but Cronin said that 
of lit(: without due process of law, years beli.>re something like this gets someont· else must push tht· al­
.::._adl huma~~~~ts from <.·or~p-another <-·harw•·" coholic in that direnion. 




i ~ ~ SKYSTREAM !I ~ 
Movin'out? 
I ~
STUDENT FIRST JUMP INSTRUCTION
! I
TRAINING FE£S: $85.00 per &tudent training includes ~ ground school, first static line jump, equipment rental, ~ ~ parachute pocking, jump master, airlift. ~ ~ GROUP RATES: Applicable only to individual groups. ~ ~ Group of 5-$80.00 Grouup of 10-$75.00 P. ~ STATIC LINE JUMPS: $18.00/ jvmp -need o minimum ~ ~ of 5 static line jumps. ~ 
RENTA 


RYDERTRUCK 
~ STUDENt FREE FALL: $15.00/ jump -up to 5,500 ft. ~ ~ Includes jump master, equipment rental & parachute ~
If you-,t> 18 or over you can rent a Rydt>r truck to use locally or on a one-way !rent-It-here. leave-rt-therel trrp to another crty 
~ pocking. ~ Compare costs before you make plans for movrng at the enf1 
~ STUDENT TRAINING CLASSES: j! 
of the semester Wrth a truck you can take along your stereo. 10-speed. 
! Start 9:00A.M. Sat. & Sun. ~ 
clothes. all your stuff. and Still have plenty of room for one or two other 
~ Come down and watch, our staff will answer any ~ people and therr th1ngs, so you can share the costs Compare that to a 
~ questions you might hove. 
i 

plane trrket Or even a bus. Rent from the best-malntillned. most dependable fleet 1n ~~ 
' DEFINITIONS: ~ 
-, the world Ryder. The best truck money Ciln rent ...a ... 
~ ~~!T~h~!~Ea:~~otico~~c:;~l~y:0;'eec:~~t: ~ir~i~~~u~ ~;t~~i; ! 
~ required. P. ;.1 CWR AIID PULL: Student jumps and deploys chute immediately by ~
--~~I 110%CfFF-~~~rc~~ff~~-­
~ pulling his ripcord. ' ~ ~ FREE FALL: Delaying the pull until 2,500 ft., thus falling for a time ~ ;.1 maintaining stable Right. P. ~ RELAnvt WDRI (RW): A number of jumpers together using freefoll ~ ~ time to complete formations at altitude. ~ 
,tJ [~tj~ Iwi1h thisCOUPON and your Student 
t~UJ~J -\~] ~~:y ~ I 

;.I THE FU (FEDUAL lVIlTIOII ASSOC.) requires every jumper to wear II'!
l 
r · '· ,. .;..;-Y'"'l . _ I through June 30, 1982 !
~ two chutes-A main and a reserve. The reserve must be pocked by a If'! FAA certified rigger. 
'~ -·J rfii---::-=-~ -Offer Good at 2'115 N. Bendix Dr, ,S.B. If'! 
'IiIrulrl[[tm~IJI;iY-DER-TRUCKRiNTAi-~ For further information call: I 1 •• • \ ~ ---' 2715N.BENUIX DR South Bend I Goshen Municipal Airport 533-8245 I 
~,,,,,,,.,.,,........, ......,._,,,,,,~,-­


----·------------·-· -------­
The Observer Friday, April 30, 1982 -page 6 


Pleasant weather cor!t.inues to entice students into taking their daily naps on the quad. (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
•
' 


Support ot budget 
Reagan makes appeal to Americans 
WASHINGTON ( AP) -President Reagan asked Americans last night to rally anew to his prescription for tax and spending cuts, saying "You did it once -you can do it again." 
With his 198:1 budget mired in congressional dispute -and bipar­tisan efforts at compromise virrually dead -Reagan declared that his Democratic critics only "want more and mort: spending and more and more taxes." 
Reagan also urged enactment of a constitutional amendment to re­quire balanced federal budgets in the future. Ratification could take years, but Reagan said it is the only way to "stop government's squandering, over-taxing ways and save our economy." 
Reagan's nationally broadcast and televised address came a day after ef­forts at a budget compromise col­lapsed, a failure he blamed on the Democrats. He said the administra­tion had offered "our best efforts to achieve a fair compromise." 
Rep. Richard Bolling of Missouri took the air immediately after Reagan's address wtth a Democratic rebuttal, and said that the people should demand continuation of the quest for a bipartisan budget com­promise. 
He said Reagan's budget is unfair, and carries an unacceptably high deficit despite cuts in social spend­ing. The administration now 
Oxford offers adult and family communities as well as furnished or unfurnished corporate apartments you will be proud to call home. Each Oxford community features recreational facilities and a professional management team you can depend on. Select the Oxford community that's right for you and become a part of "The Pride of IndianaP-olis". 
RIVERWOOO 

9600 N. Allisonville Road -842-2434. 
SCANDIA 

9200 N. Allisonville Road -842-4005. 
AUTUMN WOODS 
9100 N. Allisonville Road-849-1422. 
RIVERBEND 

1-465 and Allisonville Road -842-5200. 
WOODS EDGE 

6200 E. 86th Street along the north edge of Cct:;tleton Square-849-9400. 
SALEM COURTHOUSE 
Northeast corner of 1-465 and East 56th Street. 542-1001. 
PEPPERMILL 

43f0 North Shadel and Ave.nue -545-6061. 
CHESWICK VILLAGE 
1• Mile East of Post Road on East 30th Street.­897-9200. 
·THE HERITAGE 

5055 East 42nd Street at Emerson Avenue. ­545-3375. 
THE MEADOWS 
4006 Meadows Drive. -542-8116. 
SPYGLASS 

01 , block South of 86th Street on Township Lin·~ Road. -875-6600. 
ABINGTON 

. West 47th Street and Georgetown Road. ­298-8005. 
DEERCROSS 

'12 Mile West of 1-465 on West 38th Street. ­297-4700. WIND DRIFT 
11• Mile West of 1-465 on West 38th Street. ­291-7700. 
BA YHEAD VILLAGE 

11• Mile West of 1-465 on West 38th Street. ­298-7510. CHESAPEAKE LANDING 
1/• Mile West of 1-465 on West 38th Street. ­297-2240. PEBBLE POINT 
West on Route 136 between 1-465 and Dandy Trail in the Waterfront Development. ­297-1338. 
FISHERMAN'S VILLAGE 

West on Route 136 between 1-465 and Dandy Trail in the Waterfront Development. ­299-4727. 
HOMESTEAD 

5100 West 34th Street. -297-1630. 
SHORELAND TOWERS 
3710 N. Meridian. -925-3420. 

OXFORD DEVELOPMENT CORP. 
3939 Meadows Drive, Indianapolis, IN 46205 (317) 547-1311 L Models open daily 01. @ 
projects a 1983 budget deficit of 5102 billion, even if all the presi­dent's spendig curbs are adopted. 
Bolling said the president's 
speech was overly political, in a 
situation that requires bipartisan­
ship. "I don't believe the solution is 
the kind of partisanship that 
prevailed last year," Bolling said. 
That is when the Reagan economic 
program was approved by Congress. 
"Ifit's turned into a partisan rat race, 
it will be very, very difficult for 
anybody to win." 
But Reagan talked of exactly the kind ofcampaign that won for him a year ago. "Make your voice heard," he said. "Let your representatives know that you support the kind of fair, effective approach I have outlined for you tonight. 
"Let them know you stand behind our recovery program," he said. "You did it once, you can do it again." 
The White House press office said that a little more than an hour after Reagan tinisht:d his speech, the White House Comments Office had recorded l ,:113 telephone calls in favor of his remarks and 261 "not in favor." 
Of those callers specitkally 
mentioning the balanced budget 
25 did not, the announcement said . 
. . . Vote 

conti11uedfrom page I 
and eleven in the past few years, the pr .ogram tor the 19H2-H3 year was cancelleu due to the small size ofthe group, even though the University of Anahuac was willing to absorb a share of the auditional costs which 
would be incurred. 
Unfortunately, the University's decision may cause scheduling problems for the students who were preparing to spend their sophomore year in Mexico. All except one did not register for classes or make ar­
rangements for on-campus housing 
next semester. 
The group's disappointment is evident, because only one individual is now planning to participate in the Iberoamericana program. 
Additionally, previous par­
ticipants in the program expressed 
their disappointment in the ad­
ministration's decision. Fran Cack­
ley, who studied in Mexico two 
years ago, commented: "I'm just dis­
appointed because it seems to me 
that there's heen a lack of com­
munication in the administration of 
the program." 
Noting her own personal effort to 
increase enthusiasm for the 
program, she stated that "the ad­
ministration could have generated 
more interest in it." 
Cackley also rdlt:ctt:d upon the meaning of her year abroad by observing, "As far as I'm concerned, it was the best year of my lift: -no doubt about it." 
While citing various disad­vantages to the Mexico program, junior Linda Powers neverthdess shares Cackley's enthusiasm for the program. According to Powers, one of the most compelling disad­vantages to the Mexico program is the segregation of American and 
Mexican students into two distinct 
and separate group~ . 
ln this respect, Powers com­
mented that "the program does not 
constitute a real cultural exchange 
-Notre Dame made it very dit~ 
tkult, and in a silent way dis­
courages you from taking classes 
with the Mexican students." Sr. jones could not be reached for com­ment on the rationale involved in the decision. 
--~---~-----------­
------~---­
------------. 

I'he Observer Friday, April 30, 1982-page 7 
ND-SMC 

Surveyreveals dating attitudes 




BySANDYVALENZUELA 
StaffReporter 
The duty of a township trustee is to attend to the needs of the poor, according to Notre Dame professor of Humanities Dennis Moran, a can­dilate for the office of Portage Township Trustee. 
Moran was one of sevcral can­
didates prescnt at the Bipartisan 
Candidate Forum held laM night at 
the: First United Methodist Church 
in downtown South Bend. 
"Four-fifths or more ofthc respon­sibility of the office is to provide lor the poor," noted Moran. Moran believes that the Emergency Poor Relict' Funds and other organizations must help the trustees provide for the necds of the poor. 
Mnran said the position of trustee is comparable to that of the "church wardens in the times of Elizabethan Poor Laws." 
lie encouraged the community to become "conscious" of what the office can do for the poor. 
Moran said that through volun­teer work -if valued at minimum 

wage -Notre Dame and SMC put 
more into helping the poor than the 
$1 70,000 per year spent by the rest 
of the township. He also said that he 
would like to "integrate township ef· 
forts with Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's." 
One of his objectives, he said, 
would be to work closely with the 
agencies involved in helping the 
poor -both volunteer and non· 
volunteer -and coordinating them. 
He is also in favor of "diversifying 
funding." 
Moran noted that environmental 
aspects of the community such as 
weed control, are also among the 
duties of the trustee. 
Moran said, the position of Trus­
tee has been a "traditional porkbar­
rel" for politicians to fall back on. He said that in actuality thc position "requires a lot of intelligence and imagination." 
The campuses of both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are located in the Portage Township, and students registered to vote in Saint Joseph County may participatc in the May 4 primaries. 
twice as many SMC students ( 6;\ 
perccnt) felt this to be true than did 
ND men ( 2'; percent)" 
McNally maintained a hopeful at· 
titudc toward the outcome of the 
survey. 
"We feel that the results of this 
survey will help N.D. male students 
and SMC students understand their 
perceptions and misperceptions of 
each other," he noted. "With this 
new understanding, perhaps stu· 
dents can develop more fulfilling 
and satisfying relationships." 
Survey results show that SMC stu­
dents hold ND men in high regard. 
Respondants described ND men as 
not only intelligent ( 100 percent), 
attractive ( 78 percent), and 
religious (59 percent), but also as 
materialistic ( 45 percent), and prep· 
py (52 percent). 
Although high percentages of 
men consider SMC women to be at· 
tractive ( 7 3 percent), intelligent 
cent), they also consider them to be 
very preppy (90 percent). and 
rather spacey ( 34 pcrcent ). 
This seems to suggest that the 
stereotypical 'SMC Chick' docs not 
exist, factually or in the minds of 
most ND students. 
If this is true, where is thc problem? Campbell offers that it may stem from a lack oftrust. Twice as many ND men ( :Hl percent) described SMC womcn as 
"insincere" as did women in their cvaluation of men ( 20 percent). 
Othcr problems may stcm from thc ratio problems or from simple misunderstandings. Misunderstand­ings can occur for many differcnt reasons. 
One example is differing dd1ni­tions ofterms. for example the term "going steady" is often misun­derstood. According to Campbdl "about 34 percent of the ND men said they had gone 'steady' with a SMC studcnt, and about the same percentage, j I percent, of the SMC women said they had gone steady with aND man." 
ByTONIRUTHERFORD 
News Staff 
The results of a recent survey show that two thirds of Saint Mary's students hdicve that thc dating ac­tivitit:s hcre do not enablt: a pcrson to get to know his or hcr date, while only onc fourth of thc Notrc Damc students hold the samc attitude. 
The poll, dcsigned by seniors Randy McNally and Mike Campbell, was dcvcloped with the help of Profcssor Thomas Mwanika of thc 'iaint Mary's Communications and Theater Dcpartment. :\lary Beth O'Brit:n hclpcd with the SMC cnd of thc survey. 

Conductt>d through a random sampling of 2'; ml"n from each class at NO and I;\ from each at SMC, tht" survey is an attempt to show the per­ceptions and misperccptions pervading each campus. 
"It is interesting that significant 
percentagcs of both groups fclt that 
the dating hcre doesn't give them a 
chance to get to know cach other 
well," McNally said. "But even more 
critical is the finding that more than 

ND Professor campaigns tor township office 
continuedfrom page I 
( S2'i million was committed). 
I 7 percent of the money marked 
lor future academic excellence was 
committed for "student assistance," 
exceeding the sI'; million quota in 
this category. joseph Russo, Finan­
cial Aid Director at Notre Dame, said 
that the normal policy is to invest 
these funds and use only the interest 
made on them. This is the normal 
procedure followed with endow­
ment funds. 
Russo explained that "the year af­ter a fund is invested, we wait for a particular fund to activatc. Some dollars (from th~: fund) have been a<:tive and we are now at the point where we can award some scholar­
ship~." 
"We can only spend the money we have." Rus~o said. "The tuition would go up higher if not li.>r the en­dowment...it helps all ~tutlents in­directly." Y~:t, Ru~so added "wear~: hoping that in future campaigns, we (Financial Aid) will he one of the high~:st prioritit:s." 
Thomas 1\la~on. \'ice President for 
llu~ines!>. Affairs. described tht· 
tk~ignation of funds a~ a "juggling 
at·t" which must ~•Hbfy "th~: needs of 
tht· fanlltr. paying hilb. and ket>ping 
~tudents." 
:\lason ~aid that till' trustees will 
abo decidt· on th~: inu~:ast· in tuition 
in thi~ mn·ting. Although ,\la~on 
would not rt'\Tal any ligure~. h~: ~aid 
that it "is a fair a~sumption that tui­
tion will go up." 
lit· ~aid that the Priori! it·s and Commitmt·nts lor the Eighties (PACE) t·ommittt-e, which re\'iew~ the pnort1cs on which Notre Dame should focus its attention financially and in general, (similar to COl'P) will keep tlnancial aid as a high priority. 

He added, howevcr, that with the problems students will face in meeting increascd tuition and with the federally proposcd student loan cutbacks, Notrc Dame might take the risk ofbecoming a "rich student~ only" institution. 
Russo said "We will not be in a 
position to make up li.>r evtT\ '>tu­
dcnt. Lots of studcnts wcrc alfcc·tcd 
in 19HI-H2, and 'H2-'H:\ won't be any 
better and probably a little wur,\· If 
( govcrnment) proposals art· put 
through ti.>r the budget li.>r 'HYH t. 
we're in for some diftkult times." 
"Notre Dame studenh ami 
families are more willing than many 
to makc sacrifices, hut as the cost~ 
Et•en tl'ith finals approaching, students find time to re/a..'( and enjoy actil'ities other than studJ•ing (photos by Cheryl Ertelt) 
.. . Funds 
go up, I'm not surt> how they'll make 
it," he added. ~a~·ing that l·mancial Aid will "ration out extra mone\· we ha\'e." · 
j.flllt·., J.. \lurph~ . .-bM!l'iatt· \ ict·· President of Public Relations. Alumni Affairs & DeYelopment. and assistant to james Frick, director of the Campaign I(Jr ;o.ootre Dame, com-
nn·nted on the problem ot l'in<Jnci;ll Aid being ahle to olhet fl·dcral t'O>nomic cuthacb: ":\ly impression i.-. that ;\;ot rt· Dame i~ not in a lin an­t ial pu~it i•>n to make up the dif­lt·rcJKL'... 
.\luch of tht· campaign money has been nurknl l(>r t·haired prott:'ssor­ships. a total commitment of ap­proximately 55-1 million. Also 52.6 million b de~ign<~ted ti.>r "Enhant'ing Religious \'alues." 


EASY RIDER 

SUMMER STORAGE SPACE 
Special discount for lfDISMC students (Sx lOspace $18.SOpermonth) CALL 259-0335 to RESERVE SPACE SELF LOCK STORAGE OF MCKIXLIJY 816 East Me Kinley Mishawaka Security Patrol Checks 
j Attention!  1  
I I YEARBOOKS have been distributed which I I have names embossed on the front lower I right-hand cover. These are personal copies  I I  
which belong to personnel and administrators.  
If you received one of these books,  
please exchange it immediately at the Student  
Activities Office in Lafortune!  
Thank you so much for your cooperation.  

~------------------------~ 
DOME 1982 staff 
~-------------------------~ 


The Observer Friday, April 30, 1982 -page 8 
A religious vision of corporate power 
A symposium on the Pope's encyclical letter On Human Work 
May ?-May 5 
The first major symposium or. PopeJohn Paul II's recent encyclical "Laborem Exercens" (On Human Work) will convene at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Education from May 3 to MayS. 
The symposium,"Co-creation: A Religious Vision of Corporate Power," will bring together theologians, church leaders, economists, labor leaders and cor­porate executives to discuss the im­plications of the Pope's image of "co-creation" for the contemporacy corporate enterprise. 
A central focus of the symposium will be the Pope's assertion that "man, created in the image of God, 


shares by his work in the activity of 

Rev. OliverI. Williams, C.S.C. the Creator and... within the limits of his own human capabilities... in a discussing the specific implications sense continues to develop that ac­ofthe "middle way" for the modern tivity, and perfects it as he advances business corporation. The encycli­further and further in the discovery cal suggests that human work may of the resources and values con­be organized to make the relation­tained in the whole ofcreation." ship between workers and managers The symposium's approach will less adversarial and more be threefold: first, examining the cooperative. Such organization theological concept of co-creation depends upon the development ofa as it is expressed in "Laborem Exer­theology and spirituality of human cens"; second, examining the pos­work to enlighten the course of sibilities of the Pope's proposal of a moral ecomonic progress, the Pope "middle way" between the notes. materialisms of capitalist and Marx­"Co-creation: a Religious Vision of ist economic programs; and third, Corporate Power" will be convened 

john Houck 

by Fr. Oliver F. Williams, adjunct as­sociate professor of management at Notre Dame and John W. Houck, professor of management. Williams and Houck recently coauthored a book entitled "Full Value: Cas,es in Business Ethics." 
The symposium will be sponsored by the Center for the Study ofMan in Contemporary Society, the Gen~er for Pastoral and Social Ministry, Notre Dame Magazine, and the Col­lege of Business at Notre Dame. Among those meeting to discuss this development will be: 


Rev. Ernest Bartell, C.S.C. 
Father Ernest Bartell, C.S.C., is ex­ecutive director of the Helen Kellog Institute for the International Studies of the University of Notre Dame. He also serves as Overseas Mission Coordinator for the Priests of Holy Cross, Indiana Province, Inc. 
He has been the Director for the U.S. 
Department of Health, Education, 
and Welfare, and a past president of 
Stonehill College. 

john Caron 
John B. Caron is president of Caron International, a yarn and leisure products firm. A I945 graduate in chemical engineering from the University of Notre Dame, Caron was also a Bengal Bouts boxing finalist while a student. Today he lectures frequently on the relationship between Christianity and business and is a nationally recognized authority on the topic. In his own words: "It is very difficult to be either a good Christian or a competent business person. And it is 
infinitely more difficult to be both a good Christian and a competent business man. If I'm an example of anything, it is that I am trying..." 

Mary Cunningham 
Mary Cunningham, 30, is vice president, Strategic Planning Project Development, ofJoseph E. Seagram and Sons, Inc., where she reports 

directly to the office of the presi­dent. A native of Hanover, New Hampshire, Ms. Cunningham was graduated magna cum laude from Wellesley College, where she majored in logic and philosophy, and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. She recieved a fellowship to graduate study at Trinity College, 
Maynooth, Ireland. 

Thomas Donahue 
Thomas Reilly Donahue is the secretary-treasurer of the AFL-CIO. The leadership team of President Lane Kirkland and Secretary­Treasurer Thomas R. Donahue was re-elected unanimously to a second two-year term at the 14th AFL-CIO convention in New York City in November 1981. 


Denis A. Goulet 

Denis Goulet holds the William and Dorothy O'Neill chair in Educa­tion for Justice at the University of Notre Dame. He did his under­graduate and graduate studies at the Catholic University of America and received his doctorate in political science from the University of Sao Paolo, Brazil. He has worked as a fac­tory hand in France and Spann and shared the life oftwo nomadic tribes in Algeria. He has filled visiting professorships at universities in France, Canada, and the United States, and has been engaged in 
worldwide research on value con­
flict in technology transfer at the 
Overseas Development Council, 
Washington, D.C. 

Established in 1971, Network has been organized in 245 congres­sional districts and has a member­ship of about 5,000 persons. Network is committed to afffect issues "that afflict the poor and powerless," and works toward this goal by lobbying, educating for a political ministry, and bringing to its eforts a "feminine perspective!" 
Bernard Murchland 

tkrnard Murchland is a professor ofphilosophy at Ohio Wesleyan Uni­versiy and director of the Antaeus Center for the Study of Society and Education. He was born in Canada and is now a naturalized America citizen. He holds a B.A. from the Uni­versity of New York at Buffalo. Among the books he has writen and/or edited are TheAge ofAliena­tion, The New Iconoclasm, Th I e 

Michael Novak 

Michael Novak is a resident scholar in Religion and Public Policy at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington, D.C. His intellectual odyssey is suggested by a career that included anti-war activism, speechwriter and advisor to Sargent Shriver, Edmund Muskie, and George McGovern. Today he is known as one ofthe groundbreaking intellectuals in the neo-conservative movement. 
He has written a number ofbooks. His recent works focus on the relationship between religion and economics and include A Theology ofthe Corporation and The Spirit of Democratic Capitalism. 
Mr. Novak serves as Chief of the 
U.S. Delegation to the Human Rights Commission in Geneva. 


·------­

------~ -·--­
Friday, April 30, 1982 -page 9


Editorials 
Are 1God and America compatible? 

P'AT IRELAND '83-Arts and Let­ters 
"I've got mutton to bide. I can't waiJ to get back to the fann and 
With every consideration of na­
tional service, one must consider 
the ultimate result ofeach of his op­
tions. While the military provides a vast array of oppurtunities for ad­vancement and personal satisfac­tion, the armed forl·es also provides a vaolent background upon which all del'isions must thereh>re be judged. 
Paul McGinn 
For What It's Worth· 
\1v Catholic-Amrican upbrin11-ing ha.'f . never fully deciphered the nu-aning of either the terms "American" or "Catholic" much less the relationship-l:lctween the two belief systems. Somehow, I have al­


''LJ6fEN,B£F()K£ you GO .. , WHY PDNT · us To HAKE P£A,c£,.. L/1')£ 'IDU DIP WITH !!<3l'r'PT ANPISRt:.Al-IN 7HE. CAHP DAVII/ AGREEHENT? 11 
ways been taught that in the end, the 
two beliefsystems do not conflict. 
If I opt to be an Roman Catholic 
first, and American second, I have no 
trouble in condemning the violence 
of warfare and ultimately the con­
cept ofconscription for such war. 
If I opt to be an American first, I choose to deal with the United Stales and the defense of its people, and therefore l support their defo:nse through any just means. Somehow the Christianity in-· llut·nces my choice of just, hut seemingly, my Christianity extends no farther than far-olf ideals. 
,'.1y greatest concern therefore heeomes one ofchoice between im­mediate and long-lasting goals. The Catholic scenerio presents an all­en·~ompassing view of humanity ­all men come from the same Creator and are thereti:>re my brother~. no 

"Finals I'd say for seniors. It's a big thing getting back home. I'm through." 

NANCY aELL '84-Business 
"Last minute papers due, pmblem sets and finals to study for." 
and Letters 
,"Getting out, getting ready for finals." 
matter what their political iden­
tifications. 
A catholic Christian response 
therefore becomes one of accep­
tance and acknowledgement of the 
goodness of life itself. For the Chris­
tian, no state means more than the 
universal brotherhOod of mankind. 
For the American, however, the 
young tradition of the Republic 
stands as a testament of man's en­
lightened political notions of 
freedom and equal representation 
under law. The citizen therefore 
becomes an embodiment ofnot only 
a geogi'aphical point hut of a way of 
life as well. As the American scans 
the horizon, he views the world in 
terms of the ability ofetlucated men 
to successfully defend the freedoms 
given to us by Almighty c.;od. 
Truly, the differe11ce in the two 
ideological systems becomes not so 
much questions of ultimate goods, 
but of the pro.cesses by which to at­
tain those ends. 
It is in this way that war and the 
draft become imterrelated in the 
struggle of Religion and Republic. 
The repugnance of violence leatls 
some Roman Catholics to forsalte 
their American citizenship through 
a denial of the right of earthly ad­
ministrators to have any say to send 
young men and women to their deaths. 
The non-Roman Catholic might argue, however, that ifone is to truly play the part ofcitizen, he mu~t play the part of defender of that civiliza­tion as well. In the Socratic motif, duty to the state extends to the carrying out of even the most in just of the the state's wishes. With this in mind, many Americans argue that 

PAULETTE .HEURNING '85:Arts 
the draft satisfies the duty of the in­
dividual to his fellow Americans. 
But somehow, I wontler if the 
concept ofduty to the state in and of 
itself provides a proper framework 
within which to structure a detense 
ofthe draft. If as a draftee I am actual­
ly serving my country, I must indeed 
be defending my country as 
opposed to ollering my services to 
the ruler of that state. 
This ofcourse presents a look in­
to the process hy which we se\ect 
our leaders, the same leade.rs who 
are sacredly entrusted with our 
futures. 
If I disagree with the governmen­tal process as it now exists, I sup­posedly have the oppurtunity to petition and protest. However, I can­not use violence upon American society in the same way in which I can use violence against enemies of the state. That I contend, denies my basic right to change the govern­ment through revolution. 
Seemingly, the words of revolt 
and freedom have become the 
words of restraint and stagnation. 
P.O.BoxQ Keenan salutes Fr. Conyers 
Dear Editor: 
At the end ofthis school year, Fr. Rich Conyers will be leaving Notre Dame and Keenan Hall, where he has been rector for the past nine years. He has given his all to Keenan over this time period, and his devotion, generosity, dedica­tion, and innovation will be sorely missed. 
Aside from being the spiritual leader of the dorm, he has also founded or given his full support to many new ideas which are now well-known hall traditions. He in­itiated a house renovation program in the South Bend com­munity, which fixes up run-d,,wn homes and then rents them .o needy families. This gives hall resi­dents a chance to get personally in­volved in a community service 
project, and gives a family less for­tunate than most of our own a second chance. 
He also founded the Hall Fellows program in Keenan, which enables students and profs and ad­ministrative personnel to get in­volved with each other away from the classroom and office. His sup­port, both moral and tlnancial, for the Keenan Revue has allowed the show to prosper and expand over the past six years, providing an op­portunity for hall residents to showcase their talent and imagina­tion. 
These are but a few of the many. 
things Fr. Rich has done for the 
dorm, and the Notre Dame and 
South Bend communities, over the 
years. His contributions have been 
great, and his assistance monumental; yet the recognition for his accomplishments has usual­ly been small, and often non­existent Therefore, in speaking for all residents, past and present, of Keenan Hall, I would like to offer Fr. Conyers a public and heartfelt thank you for all he has done, and a sincere wish of good luck for 
whatever he does in the future. 
Sincerely, Brian}. Callaghan Keenan Hall President 


No longer do pioneers of freedom seek a new Constitution, only an amentled one. What has happened to the wild-eyed democratic intel­lectual!. yearning to create a more just society? 
In its own sragnarion, rhe governmant of the Unitd States has become a tool of worldly men, in­tent on worldy fortune and worldly s;~tisfaction. 
And the best way to satL~ty this hunger is to stir up a sense ofreligio­natonalism by which to exploit .the mass ofyoung men and women who fervently believe they are serving both God and country. 
It is therefore the challenge of the American Roman Catholic to recreate the days of I776 and to pull together the traditions of democracy and world brotherhood. It is from this base that religion and government can provide a more meaningful approach to service, service based on need within the human family instead of service to some geographical point upon a. finite world in an infinite universe. 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
The Obrerver is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Ftlitor-in·(.'JJit•f ......................... .... Mk·hat:l Monk Husine.~s Mtma~er .. ...Tony Aic:llo
Unrvcrsity of Notre Dame du Lac a.nd Saint Mary's Co1le~e. It does not necessarily 
Mm1t1~in~ 1-.'tli/or ............. .. Ryan Vn lkrkmm.-~ GmtrYII/er.. .. . ............... Erk Sc:hul1. 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news i:. report­
l:'xt•t·util't' Nt•ws l:'tlilor.................. ...... Kc:lli l'linl Atll•t•rli.~i"~ Malltl~t·r. .....Chris Owt·n
l'J as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of 
S.UC Nt•u•s l:'tlilor.................. .. Mar~rt·t I'usmot· l'rotlut·tioll MtiiUI?,<'r .. Maura Murphy 
a ma1onty of the Editorial Board. Co.nmcntarics, opinions and letters are the views 
Sport.~ l:'tlilor... .............................Chris Nn·dks Cirnlialioll Mana~er . ..... Ray ln~lin 
of !heir authors. Column space is available to aU members of the community, and 
l:'tlilorial.~ l:'tli/or ............................. Paul :\k(iinn .\)•stem.~ Mmm~er ... .............1\run· Oakley
the free expression of varying opin.rons on campus, through ldters, i' eocour38ed. 
f't•atm·e.~ l:'tlilor ................ . ............ Tari Brown Photo l:ililor .................................. R;Khd lliuulll 
Founded November .l. J966
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

.. 
t 
0... .' 
l 
.. 
L 
I·' 
I 
: 
. 

~ 
__... 

r 
I 
I 
I 
r
l 
--~--------­


Rogers electrifies ACC 
The Kenny Rogers concert reception and audience participa­After "Take My Hand," Kenny 
.1 Wednesday night was more than tion the Gatlins received, it might sang "Mamas, Don't Let Your Babies just a concert; it was a complete have appeared that they were the Grow Up To Be Cowboys." At the audio-visual experience. Comedy, main attraction. start of the song, four movie scret:ns knee-slapping music, and a daz­Suddenly, from out of the dark­
unrolled from their perches high in zling laser and light show made this ness, the theme from "Chariots of 
the speakersystem. As the song ~on­production one ofthe best that the Fire" was heard. Green lasers tinued, a movie offreckle-faced ACC has had this year. flickered across the audience, like a little boys playing cowboys was snake's tongue testing the air. Fog shown. Kenny continued with rose from beneath the stage; more "Somewhere Between Friends and Mike Raab colored lights were centered·on the Lovers," a song off his new album ( waiting band. As the crowd roared, due out in about three weeks). Kenny Rogers strode onstage. 
Most people enjoy Kenny Rogers' 
concert review 
As the lasers and colored lights 

"story-songs:" songs that are easy
faded, Kenny reached down and PHOTOS BY CHERYL ERTELT 
The evening started out with co­to listen to and tell a story. 
picked up a stack oftambourines.
median Lonnie Schorr. The "Graybeard," another new song, was 
Striding around the circular stage, about a young gunslinger meeting begun, the concert was ending. After and surrounded by nine huskyaudience, composed mainly of he threw them out to eager hands in 
adults, quickly caught on to his wry his match. Like Kenny's other "Lucille," the lasers and theme from "assistants" was hustled out to his 
the audience, where they were 
comments on Nancy Reagan, cats, story-songs, this one was "Chariots of Fire" crept back into waiting bus. 
snapped up like manna. 
commercials, and .world events. By thouroughly enjoyable and en­the ACC. Kenny turned and left the Though the tickets to thisconcert the time the Gatlin Brothers came "It's great to be here!" he tertaining. And then "The Gambler" stage, but was easily persuaded to were fairly high-priced, the ex­out, the crowd was happy, loose, and proclaimed. He began to speak with was played. Again, the audience come back for an encore. "I only pertise ofthe technical aspects of excited. the audience about South Bend, his responded with a roar and joined in wanted to go and touch the wall," he the show; combined with the talent 
The crowd was completely band, and life in general. His words the singing. "The Coward ofThe said. As he started his encore, Kenny ofKenny Rogers and the Gatlin entranced by th~;: Gatlins, and when were eagerly received, but the County." featured a film with ex­threw frisbees all the way to the Brothers, made the concert an ex­the opening chords of"All The Gold audience wanted to hear music. cerpts from Kenny's television bleachers, and again they were cellent experience. This three­in California'' were played, the Then the band struck up "Ruben movie ofthe same name. snapped up like manna. At the end of hour show was a great way to spend entire audience joined in. From the james," and the house went wild. And then, almost as soon as it had the song, he regally left the stage, a Wednesday evening. 
Premiere of ~ ~New Music Ensemble' ' 
J>:rforming a varied program, tones. The instruments seem to plod plause from the audience with their !:l r including a world premier, around each other, echoing phrases, play. The piece is an eerie invitation ~ whale songs and the poetry ofWil­but never coming to any sort ofac­to another world, natural and ~ liam Blake set to music, the Michiana cord. serene. Iii New Music Ensemble made its e
A variety ofinnovative tech­
In Varese's "Octandre," the instru­

debut last night before about 100 ~ 
niques, including singing into the
ments come to a greater unity of gpatrons at the Saint Mary's Little 
flute and strumming the piano,
purpose in their vocal dance. The
Theatre. ~ 
..

ensemble managed quite well with produce unusual sounds that are no Varese's piece, each instrument len­less soothing or appealing for their ding its voice effectively to the musi­unfamiliarity. Performing in a 
cal tapestry, which moves from darkened auditorium and wearing subtle harmonies to moments ofal­masks, the trio demonstrated a fine most martial quality. The work sensitivity to the composer's intent, 
concert review derives its name from a flower with bringing out all the emotional value eight stamens. of the few passages designed by Crumb to represent rna t n's intrusion 
Bruce Oakley 

The group, formed as a vehicle for The octet performing the 
into the serene world ofnature.
the performance of 20th century "Octandres" consisted of Laura Hal­music, made the premier presenta­land, flute; Heidi Eash, oboe; Betsy The ensemble's program of20th tion of"Double Octandre," written Tobolski, clarinet; Eric Kuehner, century music also included R. for the ensemble by Mlchi;ma com­bassoon; Linda Howard, horn; Craig Vaughan Williams' "Ten Blake poser David K. Barton, who was in Heitger, trumpet; Bill Clark, trum­Songs," sung by Carol Knell, mezzo­attendance. Conducted by Roger pet; and Ed Golightly, bass. The eight soprano, with Heidi Eash playing the Briggs, assistant professor of music have made a fair beginning with this oboe. The two received a polite at Saint Mary's College and founder performance, and need only to grow round ofapplause for their perfor­ofthe Michiana New Music En· a bit in confidence and cohesion. mance. semble, the group performed ade­Thebest received ofthe evening's quately in this "companion piece to compositions was the opening "Vox Performances remaining on the Edgard Varese's 'Octandre,"' also in­Balaenae" (Voice ofthe Whales), Little Theatre schedule include a cluded in the evening's program. written in 1971 by George Crumb senior recital by soprano Anita Ram­
Barton's work uses elements of upon hearing a recording of ker tonight at 8, and the Spring the Varese style and content, but the humpback whales. Korin Shilling on Choral Concert featuring the Choirs · new piece is a briefer weaving ofthe electric flute, Tom Rosenberg on ofSaint Mary's College under the voices ofthe eight instruments in a electric cello and Briggs on electric direction of Raymond Sprague on strangely disconcerting "dance" of piano evoked a rousing round ofap-Sunday at 8 p.m. Ed Golightly, Bass 
__________________L 
----~----------­


The Observer Features Section 
Friday, April 30, 1982 -page 1.3 

Death co1mes for the Archbishop 
Death came for Archbishop Graner last week. An old 
man went to sleep, and in the early morning hours, a 
soul slipped away to heaven. No one at Corby Hall 
noticed a stranger, presumably a dark angel, whom St. 
Francis called Brother Death. Ofcourse Death is not a 
stranger at Corby; he's been there before. A week ago 
Monday, he came for the Archbishop. "Because I could 
not stop for Death, he kindly stopped for me," wrote 
Emily Dit:kinson. Death, in coming for the Archbishop, 
was courteous, like a footman. The Archbishop, being a 
gentleman, was courteous, I'm sure, to him. He would 
not have said he could not stop; like the good mission­
ary he was, he was probably waiting, with his passport, 
for passage. At age eighty, he went with Death to God. 
An archbishop on campus was part ofthe poetry of the place. You keep remembering how beautiful he looked when you saw him at table at Corby, or saying his prayers in Sacred Heart Church. His was a presence that made you respectful. He was such a good man, wearing the dignity ofhis office and his age so well, that he made you respect the dignity of the priesthood in yourself. When I have seen him in attendance at a Mass I've been saying, I've taken a fresh look at myself as 
celebrant, wanting him to he pleased with the way I presided over the worship 
of the Church. Authority to pray: Coach Faust and his tlgurcs often remind us of wife, in tears, after the loss of who we arc and what we arc a game; the cross on St. Ed's doing. Affection added to Hall, being toppled in a personal veneration makes devastating fire; Bill Toohey, official duties seem like an at his wake in the Lady act oflove. Chapel. Last week, death 
Last week, when Death came for the Archbishop, came for the Archbishop, I and it's hard to forget the knew that he represented memory of how impressive every tradition of the priest­he looked, a priests' priest, hood that I have cared for who would have been deeply. Sunday evening, a delightful as a grandfather; visitor at Corby, looking at very tall and slender, his the Archbishop's table, said: robustness pulled back by "That's where he always age; white-haired and sat." The Archbishop's ab­handsome, never needing sence seemed sad, because the bishop's purple to make his presence had always him the most distinguished 
been so gracious. 

Death seems so efficient when he comes. Death's authority seems so clear cut: the busine~. ofa lifetime has been finished; the connections are broken; the file has been put away; the body is buried with the others that rest In the lakeside graves, as though at military at­tention, for the marching orders of the rc surrection. As the honored dead, their lives will go no more from this place. Death keeps them faithful to the dream ofour Fathers for these green acres. The restless living seem invited to make a covenant ofloyalty to the truth that 
begins on a Dome in a glimmer ofgold. 
Because I could not stopfor Death fie klnd~y stoppedfor me The Carriage held butjust ourselves And Immortality. 
We slowly drove -fie knew no baste Ami/ bad put away My labor and my leisure too, For fils cit'ili~v. 


A lesson from Jodi 
Death comes for an Archbishop, but the ordinary busy-ness goes on. A week before the funeral, three men were ordained priests at the altar from which the Arch­bishop was buried. On the day ofthe funeral, three young couples made their vows of marriage in the church. Two weeks earlier, four young adults had been baptized Christians at the Easter services. 
~~v. Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonelv God 
In the Senior Bar, students talked oflife in the real world. They were nice guys, but they had had it with Notre Dame. They were fed up with rules, clerical hypocrisy, and the stunted social life. One listened, with compassion and understanding. Their Notre Dame world was plainly imperfect. One wondered where they expected to find a better place. 
Dominant images haunt any week, checking the mind 
like a mantra reminding you 

figure in any room. He represented the goodness of the Church more beauti­fully than any other prelate I have ever met, and he belonged as though by birthright to Holy Cross and Notre Dame. Sadly enough, in reporting his death, The Observer misspelled his name. That illustrates to me how quietly he lived. 
Seniors will graduate to become part ofa better 
world, it is to be hoped; leaving behind acommunityof 
the living and the dead, each ofwhom belongs to some 
moment, past and present, ofthe Notre Dame tradition. 
Each of us is so much smaller than the place we live in. 
Yet, standing in the other's shadow, we become giants. 
A few, standing by themselves, stand taller than the rest 
of men. I wish they could have known Archbishop 
Graner at the Senior Bar. He would have cast a shadow 
against which other shadows could he measured. 
Last Monday, Brother Death came for the Arch­bishop, allowing him to move from slumber into sleep. He went with dignity and missionary's curiosity to an unknown country. His community knew that death's coming was nothing the Archbishop was afraid of. 
I 
become more introspective about lik within the cream-coloured rooms ofa hospital. The smell ofan­tiseptic blended in with the cries of infants as I painfully moved down the hollow-ringing tiled halls ofSt. JoM:ph's Medical Center. 
Ed Konrady 
features 
Demerol and pain fought in my mind, forcing my thoughts into a conciousness ofsc:lf-interest. I thought of my life -where I had once clawed like a lion for survival and supremacy, I now followed others like a blinded ewe struck dumb. Why had I lost all motivation and fight? 
I looked up and sawJodi, in her own cream-coloured room, staring hack at me. The heavy wooden door to her room was ajar, so I pushed it inside and introduced myself. 
Her black hair was tucked behind her head as she propped it up on a 

pillow. Jodi's eyes were coal-black, dominating her colorless face. 
The doctors had operated on her the day before, taking out what she called with a smile "most ofmy left stdc-the fallopian tubes, uterus, ovary." 
With a smile. 
Jodi was a child of the streets. She had only seen her father a half-dozen times since he left her mother when slile was six. Her step-father treats the family very wc:ll. 
The idea ofsterilization at sixteen dlid not seem to bother her terribly, primarily because of Keith, her six­month-old child. In high school she was a year ahead of her class, and preparing to become a nurse. 
What madeJodi fascinating was not the fact that she had lived through all of this-an obscene number ofyoung girls have gone through much worse -but the fact that she livedfor it. 
As we talked about the differences between middle-class life and lower-class life ("the stuck-ups and the 
streets"), I learned more about her life from her eyes than her words. 
Jodi knew both sides, as she had lived at the Corby Apartments for two years "rubbing noses with the snotty folks," before returning to her home in the heart ofgang rumbles. 
Her voice would slip from a 
hoosier hick to street jive effortless­
ly, everytime we talked about her 
home. Jodi loved to feel the pulse of 
the streets, "to know what the hell's 
goin' down." 
The excitement in her voice 
rubbed offon me. Adrenalin flowed 
through my body, giving my spirit a 
jump-start that was long overdue. 
Survival for Jodi was living the streets, riding out the riots at school, taking care ofher child at home. Sur­vival for me is not the scholastic sur­vival oflibrarx-residing students, nor the fat bank-rolls ofwell-wishing 
parents. 
Survival for me rests in my mind, my spirit, and my soul. The closest I come to living in the streets is 
N
ow I have the time to do all the things I want to do. Well, not 
quite. But there are plenty ofthings to do. As we all know, 
writing those last papers and preparingfor finals leaves little time for 
recreation, especially of the cultural sort. Somehow we've always 
been able to make the time, though. Professorsappreciate reasonab­
ly relaxed, balanced students. Roommates appreciate the quiet 
seconds after our departure for that concert or film. Our bodies 
celebrate in fine style when we change from academic mode to fun 
mode. (We have been running a bit like computers, wouldn't you 
agree?) Since I'd like to help make everyone as happy as possible, I 
have compiled the last Weekend column for the semester. Ifyou 
haven't been able to take advantage of many events, use this weekend as a breather between the end ofclassesand the beginning offinals. 
•THEATRE 
Apologies must be extended to the Communications and Theatre Department, Prof. Braun and the cast ofThe Card Index. At the end ofRichard Burns' review in Wednesday'sSbowcase, the dates for this weekend's final performances were printed incorrectly. Lest anyone be in the right place at the wrong time, there is no performance on Sunday, May I. Two performances remain, tonight and tomorrow night at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Despite what many may think, this play is funny and entertaining while at the same time achieving all that Roxsewicz set to achieve. 
•MUSIC 
This is the time ofyear when stereos get blasted out dormitory windows onto the quad. Music abounds. Ifthis Is your only contact with the world of music, let this weekend widen your spectrum of experience. On campus, we have the Spring Choral Concert sponsored by the Department of Music at Saint Mary's. Sunday, May 2 at 8 p.m. in the Little Theatre in Moreau Hall, voices will resound in this, the final concert ofthe year. Walking through the lower depths ofMoreau, I have had occasion to hear these beautiful voices In re­
hearsal. Ifthose sounds are any indications ofwhat the concert will be like, Sunday evening could be quite delightful. 
Ofmusical interest to all ND football fans is the concert tonight at Marian High School in Mishawaka. It is the spring concert for the Marian chorus and concert band. Where does football come Into a music blurb? When two ex-NO-football players take to the keyboards and the guitar as accompaniment.John Scully, on piano, is a former ND center who was a fourth round draft pickofthe Atlanta Falcons. Guitarist Kevin Hart is the son offormer All-American and He ism an Trophy winner Leon Hart. Curious about how well these athletes fare on the stage? At I I 3I S. Logan Street at 7:30p.m., find out for yourself. 
Tonight is your one-time opportunity to witness jazz of the very best kind! The DarJe Brubeck Quartet, one of the all time greats, will perform at the Morris Civic Auditorium at 8:30p.m. Experience a concert with this famous jazz musician who's influence on contem­porary music made him the second jazz man on the cover ofTime and one of the first two jazzmen to be elected to the Hall of Fame. Seats are S5 to S12 and can be reserved by calling 284-91 II. 
At the Bendix Theatre tonight and tomorrow at 8 p.m. Fascinatin' 
Rhythm, a popular Michiana troupe, will present .. .Oh, Don't Wor· 
ry .. A Title Will Come to Us . ... This production takes a musical 
look at the various stages ofproducing ashow -from its conception 
through song selections, costuming and lighting, to the curtain 
going up on opening night. Tickets are S4 presale, S4.')Qat the door. 
•MOVIE 
Bill Murray fans, this is your weekend. Stripes will be showing at the Engineering Audiorium tonight and tomorrow night at 7, 9 and II p.m. This is (according to the posters) "the story ofa man who wanted to keep the world safe for democracy ...and meet girls." Take a lesson, guys. 
•STUDENT UNION 
Certain very important people would like me to tell you about tbe event of the semester end, the "Go Crazy" dance sponsored by the Student Union. Thematic dances are always fun ( ha! ha! ). But seriously, this one will be.Just be yourM:lf. Remember, in Chatauqua tonight frm 9:30p.m. to I :30 a.m. for Sl. 
1 driving through the slums ofSouth ofa hardened soul, poking the holes Bend with Bruce Springsteen on the into it that allow it to bleed onto radio. paper. I have to survive on my own 
Jodi reminded me what life was allterms. I have to keep my mind and 
1
about, the: eii)O)'ment of the survival 
ears open, re-cording life and its 
ofpersonall istencc.
quirks. I have tofee/life, to let it get The next morning I woke up andunder my skin, fill my soul, affect my ' with the help ofa shot of Dcmcrol,life. 
slowly walked toJodi's room.
Then I have to usc it, to write out It was empty.
all that I feel, all that moves me, loves me, offends me, and most important­While I was asleep, the doctors ly, wounds me. had checked her out of the hospital, 
and allowed her to go back home ­
My trpewriter is a gun, scaring 
back to the streets. 
away the choking holds ofplacid ig­norance; my pen is a switchblade, I never expected her to say slashing away the passive repetition goodbye, and I hope she ncvt·r does. 
r 

The Observer w1ll accept class1f1eds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m to 4 30 p m However. class1f1eds to appear m the next 1ssue rnust be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the busmess day rnor to 1nsert1on All class1f1eds must be prepaid. 
Friday, April 30, 1982 -page 14 
e1ther 1n person or through the ma11






Classifieds""'"'~~' 
LOST Wed Apr 14 at ACC -gold ladres NEED HOUSE SITTER, MAY 15-AUG 1. JUDY FENLON, who pretends to be Laura Lee, Meg. Bulova watch REWARD'!!! $20 00 NEAR NO 233-8039 from Minnesota when she Is reall from L•fe at thts end seems so lonely Without Wrthout you I would be really lost, 
NOTICES 

REWARD for return -call Kathy 7795 or St. Paul, wlfl present a symposium on you Hope every day IS sunny. every You tell me what s what at any cost 277-6052 Need nde to Alexandna, Va W1tlleave af­May 5. The topic of the symposium will tnend ts cheery and your hfe ts sensatton­Boredom would have encompassed my ter May 7 Mrmr SMC4229 be "The Minnesota North Stars, why al Love you total berng, LOST -INTERMEDIATE ACCOUNTING do they suck?". The North Stars' Gregory And 10 BC I would be lleerng, 
FREE PUBLICATIONS on chemrcal. 

untimely dismlaal from the NHL nuclear war Research, posters. 
BOOK TAKEN FROM S DINING HALL, If tl weren t for you and your sense of 
playoffs will be dlacussed In detail.

TUES DINER MONEY OFFERED FOR 1 Kelli and Cathy: humor,
brochures. Conservative vtew Quant1t1es 

ITS RETURN CALL PAUL 3207 Workrng wrth you has been I he best I II I d term thiS campus a malignant tumor 
FOR SALE
available. 413 E Caprtol, Washrngton, Atlanta Atlanta Atlanta 
mtss you! Whenever I brlched you listened 10 me.
DC 20003 I need a nde to Atlanta after commence­lost: Blue and Whrle Warn ·p Top allhe 

Love. And you guarded me agarnsl those who Bookstore courts on Monoay the 26th If 
ment Take me home Call Jeb at 8649 
Mary Agnes cant see

EARN UP TO $500 OR MORE EACH & OUT-PRINT Atlanta Atlanta A_tlanla
USED BOOKS bought.

found please contact Mtke, a k a Bobo. 
I ve had a good ttme over the year.

YEAR BEGINNING SEPTEMBER FOR sold, searched ERASMUS BOOKS
al1689 Although Ihe van -did cause some fear
1-3 YEARS. SET YOUR OWN HOURS Tues-Sunday.12-6 1027E Wayne(One HAPPY BIRTHDAY PHYLLIS SHEA'!! 
MARCARET FOSMOE -From one Over the summer Ill mtss you as we part,Lost While jacket rn Flanner s party room You f~nally got one! Love. your room1e
MONTHLY PAYMENT FOR PLACING block south of Eddy-Jefferson rntersec­
SMC edrlor to another-good luck! But come August we II return and the ac­4/23/82 If you prcked 11 up by mrslake,
POSTERS ON CAMPUS BONUS lron 1 lron wrll startBASED ON RESULTS PRIZES 
please call Jrm at 1067 To thank everyone wh has made 11 a Mel
AWARDED AS WELL 800-526-0883 USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED. 
great year tn person wuld take more hours CATHLEEN MARY DOMANICO wrll turncalculator found long ago 1n Language SAT SUN 9-7 CASPERSON 1303 than I have avatlablet, and to thank 22 NEXT WEDNESDAY. MAY 5. MAKE s Badin s 2nd Floor Quad Squared; I des~rately need a ride down South lor Lab Clarmer I"Ust descrrbe 239-5881.8-BUCHANAN AD , NILES everyone by name rn lhrs ad would lake SURE TO STOP BY CAMPUS VIEW Thrs year has ended and thanks sothe summer. Houston is the destination, 

11am more tnches than anyone should put up AND GIVE HER A KISS!!!! much,
but Chicago. St. Lours, Loursvrlle, Nash· Special Discounts lor Noire Dame wrth So rn general. thanks to the staffs of For bnngrng happrness wrlhrn my
faculty on computers and penpheral PARTY TIL THE COWS COME HOME touch

vrlle, or Anywhere near the Texas board­LOST: ONE SPANISH BOOK. The Observer and WSND. the people at 
products. pnnters. modems. etc Hewlett­er wrll do Call Trmo at 1782, Will share the DUBIOUSLY ENTITLED HABLA OBUD: the Darby s Place regulars. espe­I w1sh for you all a safe summer wtlh

Packard, Zenrth FOURWAY COM­PIG ROAST 82

usual. thanx ESPANOL? IF YOU FOUND IT OR INAD­ctally Bnan. Kevin, and Dentse. Notre Sun,PUTER PRODUCTS, INC., 52758 US 31VERTENTLY PICKED IT UP ON WED­Dame Secunty: countleSs fnends and ac­
North (Across from North VIllage Mall) BLUE-GOLD PIG ROAST SAT,MAY Rest up for next year when we max­

Hey Yall, NESDAY. APRIL 28TH. PLEASE CALL qua~ntances tn Cavanaugh Hall, hke 
~77-7720. 1ST AFTER THE GAME tmtze our fun.

Its trme lor the Better Bass show-we KIM AT 3210--YOU CANT POSSIBLY Andy. Dan S . Mrke K . George S . Matt Wrlh tnps planned lor lhe Breaks of
hve to fish, we love to hsh, and we hve to WANT IT THAT BAD! S . and on and on. the Sl Mary s Cham­love fish Mtchael T. IS gonna be 1n the ber Stngers (both fall and spnng semes­
SURPLUS JEEPS $65. CARS $89. PIG OUT AT THE PIG ROAST Spnng and Fall. TRUCK $1 00 S1m1lar bargarns avarlable We re bound 10 meet someone dark,

North, Boat Nrpple rn the south, and Tim­One SMC who wears destgner under­ters) for wonderful ltmes collecttvely and 
Call for your d1rectory on how to pur­HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU handsome, and Tall. 

my and myself nght rn between on a wear! She needs HELP! tndtvtdually (I wont mention anyone s chase. 602-998-0575 Exl 3648 Call HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU Wrth Mardr Gras-Yes Were There!
mountarn, but we II all be ~shrng Shaun s name. Kalre). Group B Productrons. 
Refundable HAPPY BIRTHDAY DEAR TEX-ASS And homebound on away games -I d 

gorng rnto the Marines so that he wrll get to Group D Productions. and K P . Jenny beat up people Its not been a bad year. Klauke and the rest ol the women s bas­
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU say that s Rare rt s not really been a good year erther­ketball team: and lrnally to Shelly lor your 
4-sale MGB 74 Burg Good cond 63000 So gel ready Chrcas rls only 3 months 
FOR RENT 
mrles $2300 call 255-9784 DON T MISS DR ZING AND THE MOJO away. HANDLERS ? AT THE PIG ROAST That rs: · Maxrmus Funus and cell

nonetheless, it has been a year. and sweetness and sm1le. and Roban for 
tnat s all there is to it.. lm glad lm nola more than I probably real1ze now
Buy and sell your books at Pandora s 1 hope you all have good summers and SATURDAY TIX ON SALE NOW THRU decay!
shnmp, how bout ya II? Hold on lo your Thts week only--5&o off on all used paper­

-rods over the summer gang, hope you all For Rent· Student Housrng-rated all lhal lo lhe senrors. may you live hap­DORM REPS Mel 
backs 1n store 937 South Bend Avenue. relieve those bb s '" a sea of sweat and 
supenor-summer and/or fall Clean. safe. ptly ever aher: to the rest, Ill be around
233-2342

laundry. utrhhes. $100/mo total 291-one more semester, so maybe our paths PHILADELPHIA CLUB sGJ
perfume For 11 has been written-··Men 

1405 wtll cross agatn THE PH ILLY CLUB BAGGAGE TRUCK New York would have been fun wtth the have d1ed from time to t1me and worms 1975 VW. low mrleage. good car. no rust Much thanks. WILL BE LOADING ON SUNDAY-MAY 9 srde lnp lo BC.
have eaten them, but not tor love·· AM-FM radro Askrng $2500 or make ol­

Be your own boss Comfortable 5 Trm Neely FROM 12-4 AT STEPAN CENTER And the fact you rnvrled me means alot Clear Skies and Calm Seas 
ler 259-2367. ask for Nancy JP Keyes, amaluer angler. professional 
bedroom, completely furntshed house for P S One more thanks to aliihe people on NEWSLETTER FORTHCOMING FOR tome. 5 or 6 Close to campus Phone 288-3942 lhts campus. most of whom I have never MORE INFO CALL Take care of your leg though -Yes.
gurtansl. 4-sale 74 MGB burg 63.400m good 
met. who by your readershtp and hstener­CHUCK x8702 lace reality! 
cond $2300 call 255-9784 
shrp made the lnvra qurz and The Top 20 KERRY x6996 For I can I say now gel a Job or degree CAR PROBLEMS? 

2 student houses loor rent on Nlre Dame Time Tunnel successes Congrals You ve done well and now
I am a qualified mechanrc wrlh lots of ex­CELLO FOR SALE CALL 234-9974 
Ave One 4-stu. one 5-stu house W1thtn TO: THE SEA OF FROGS-you·ll proceed, penance. Low rates. Call John at 6713 walktng dtstance Avatl fall semester 82 Desperately need GRADUATION TICK­SPACEY. THE FAMED rnto a life in whrch I know you II
FOR SALE-$40 MARSAND CAMERA
Call evenrngs 272-8870 ETS-Wrll pa Bucks Call272-5438 FENCER.PANDY,MEEGAN,AND succeed

LAST CHANCE FOR HAIRCUTSIII $4 BAG FOR $15-VERY GOOD CONDI­FOR GUYS AND $6 FOR GIRLS CALL TION CALL CHERYL AT 283-3194 OR 
SHORTIE-Well, adros. rm still warling lor Take care of yourself under the Mtamt House tor rent summer only. close to 
I need a nde to 0 Hare on Sunday May 9 my B-dayy personal HINT HINT sun,

MICHOLE AT 7951 AT OBSERVER
campus, excellent condrtron 287-5361 
Call Ray at 3596 
Anyway, wieder I know you II mtss me And remember your a bus1ness man so 
Love. cool the lun. 

FOR TYPING CALL 288-5855 2 Ultrahnear speakers for sale Very. very
3 houses lor rent--all on same block 5 DEAR ALEX. THE HUNKY: ALAN. THE The word thanx can I begrn 10 descnbecheap call4357bdrm-$450. 6 bdrm-$540 per mo Call COWBOY. SCOWTT. 0. SUNMAN JIM AZZARELLO, KEN WHITE, MIKE my gralrlude,277-3461 or 272-9299 (TRITE). TOM. TOM. HOOK. JUBES, 
WELCH, JERRY LEVESQUE, MIKE For savrng my grades and changrng FELLOW TRACK STARS. MARYFOR SALE Power Wrnder A lor a Canon 
AE-1 Barely used Excellent condtfton BURTON, DAVE MOORMAN, TIM my mood5 ROOMS FURNISHED AT $125 PER ALICES. CARRIE. JO ANN. KELLI.
$50 Call Greg al233-4381 HART, MARK MANLEY, VINCENT I don llhrnk I could ever begrn to return, 
\ LOST/FOUND \ 
PERSON WITH UTILITIES PAID HOME 

HANK. ALFALFA. HAROLD. SPANKY. AWAY FROM HOME NEWLY WHITE, RICH TRAUB, JIM FREDRICK­All you v done lor me. plus all I drd JO JO. HO JO. MO JO (AI SIN) BILLY,
FOR SALE. Compact Stereo System: 3-SON. St. Hedwig Parish Outreach learnDECORATED WITH PANELLING AND 

LISA. KARL (WITH A K). JOHN. TIM. Lost: One set of keys somewhere be­NEW CARPETING IN EVERY ROOM 
Speed. 20-rn Fan: Nrghtstand Lamp: 10-Program wishes to expresa our ap­But thank God we rematned plutoniC • 

NOBS. K MAN. GREG. LINDA. MIC­ALL SHARE HUGE LIVING ROOM WITH for aasla­
tween Sacred Heart and Lewrs. If found, Speed Brke Call JEFF at1434 HELLE. JAMIE. SUZAN!<£. WENDY. preciation your financial just the GA two, FIREPLACE KITCHEN WITH CARPET­
tance. For anythrng more I must admrt I d 

please return 10 406 Howard or call Mike BRUCE. SPRISHTIKA. BAHRR. AND 
ING AND APPLIANCES AND ALL UTEN­10 Call341 0 lor lhal walerbed sorry Fr Matt. Lynn and the kids probably mrss you.
at8279. EVERYONE ELSE WHO SHALL REMAIN NAMELESS: BYE BYE 
SILS TWO BATHROOMS WITH Mick Desk. table. and other used furntture tor
SHOWER AND BATH DOUBLE sale. call277-1489
FOUND: A puppy in the Admrnrslralion ME 
GARAGE AND GOOD PARKING AN TOSTAL NEWS: All remarnrng money
Building on April 27, 1982. Please call ITS ANOTHER YEAR-END PER­Luci at 5258 between 7 and 4 and identify. FOR ONE LAST TIME THIS SEMES­SONAL' Amy Jo-RAH. RAH, RAH: Shan­
FACILITIES CALL 233-2245 OR 282-reimbursements can be ptcked up T ues 1664 May 4. between 3 and 4 pm at the AnTos­
TER... relive your rock n roll past on The t hereby res1gn as your moral mentor~GO Top 20 Time Tunnel. Sunday 4-6 pm on WILD!: Lon & Cheryl-Learn to STUDY rn

tal olfrce, 2nd floor La Fortune. This is SUMMER SUBLET -Turtle Creek Avarl your last opportunity to get rermbursed
Found: Gold earing by Stepan B-Ball TICKETS WSNDAM64 the library: Janet-Maybe one day we II 5/15 -8/30 1/2 share of two bedroom apt NO EXCEPTIONS!! Recerpls are man­frnally BOTH have thrngs gorng well; Dan­
couns. Call277-08&llor appentmenl. If It Thts week. a spectal show for you fits the whole in your ear, it's yours. Fully lurnrshed. pool $95 per month Call senrors -a look back at the last t1me you datory If you can I make it send a lnend the naps were great , Jell-Try not to lhrnk 
Jack 277-1185 of Pam too much thiS summer: Dennts­
Wanted 2 NO Grad TIX Call and name were sentors (most of you. anyway). lhts MORE AN TOSTAL NEWS: All remarnrng See you at Planks. Cathy-One day Davrd
Lost Dunlop Max-fb pitching wedge on your pnce Dan 283-4639 week rn 1978. lealunng songs by a wrde 
CAMPUS VIEW APT SUBLET FOR mugs and shrrts must be prcked up at the wrll know the lrulh about you!:Kalre-slay
wed 4/21 on or near 7th green if found· vanety of people. plus more tunes from please call vince at 27-2-7645 Need graduatron lrx Call Jrm 1163 Saturday Night Fever 111an you d be wrl­
SUMMER VERY REASONABLE An Tostal ollrce 2nd floor La Fortune away from tall plants. Sue-Watch out lor REDUCED RENT TWO BDRM POOL ling lo admrt you ever liked Tues May 4 between 3 and 4pm NO EX­stars wrlh feet': Mary-I hke you best wrlh AIR COND CALL 272-5438 CEPTIONS!! Mugs that still remarn un­the smrley lace: Dorolhy,PK.Demps-1
week and I would dearly apprecrale its Please lei the whole family see me To my friends... WrlhOul your support.lhrs clarmed al4 pm wrll be open for sale to the hear Pnnce Albert wrll be out ne•t week.
return no questions sked. If necessary will graduat.-1 need 2 more tickets. Call
Ltve o!f campus thts summer Share a lime tn my hfe would have been aalmost public for $2 50 until 5pm II you can·l Sally-I m gorng to mrss you Come vrsrl of­
even pay ransome money. Please return t Mary8779
nrce house wrlh 2 other students Call289-My mother and I thank the ten Thanks lor VERY memorable year:
unbearable make it send a fnend191o 129 Dillon or call6664. 
0103 nrgnts prresls and sludenls of ND-SMC for your Kath-bag-1 II mrss you roo so you better masses. prayers. and ttroughls dunng lhe APTS lor rent AVALON N.J Call Bob vrsrl with Sally' Sully-We ve got to gel DESPERATELY NEED 2 GRAD TIX! 
CALLBOB277-1117 pasllwo weeks--your consrderatron lor us 1476 together-NEXT SEMESTER!: Finally toFOUND: sel of keys in front of BP on Sat. 
during anlostal obstacle course. CON­
Wtll never be forgotten I m certam my the lwo people who actually hve wrlh me.
Need uplo 3Gradualron Trx $$$Jrm 287­3607 lather also knows I m wrth the best people To 2RS. You ve made my freshman year Juhe & Amy. Sorry lor lhe early mornrngTACT 284-4569 JD CLAIM. 
WANTED 
tn the world dryers and lale-nrghl enlnes I ve had a
someything very special. r11 always NO REASONABLE OFFER REFUSED I John McGrath remember the great times we ve had to~ great year wrth you two (and Loure) and 
ATTENTION! 
look forward 10 more of the same next
wrll pay BIG MONEY for your gradualron gather You ve all helped me more thanWe need your help 

Wanted: _ TWELVE TONE KOHN-year (wrlhoul Loure) Remrnd me I owe
trckets Call Mrke al 6700 you wtll know. Have a great summer! We look forward to your arrs and

YEARBOOKS have been drslnbuled A nde 10 ATLANTA alter commencement you both a dnnk lor all you ve done 
Love. Mary 

whtch have names embossed on the Take me home Call 8649 LOVE. Monrca 
hornprpes Knock us llat!
NEED SINGLE GRADUATION TICKET.
lower nghl hand cover These are per­
CALL PAUL, 8509. XO. The Moonlight Serenaders 
TO FRANK BYRNE -One Rrngre Drngre ­

sonalized coptes whtch belong tto person­PART-TIME TUTORS lor Educahonal nel and admtntstrators Because of the Center to teach classes of students Enc M ~-get some real calves! A 5
Zahm 

MONEY' Low supply and hrgh demand Dearest MAUREEN. personal value of thesthese books. we preparrng for LSAT or MCAT Requrres 
normally Am wtlhng to trade money for a Happy Brrlhday and best wrshes al­
WOW! 20 E E. BOTTUM rs her name and 

wouid apprectate their betng returned to hrgh GPA. leachrng e•penence a plus graduatton ticket tn order to do my part to ways! Now I can tell everyone that I date Gus. Julie. Lrsa (sweetre) and Rrck for a 
berng a prankster rs her game YES. We

the Student Actlvthes OHice tn La Fortune Destre law student fer LSAT. med•cal or ma1nta1n the economy s cash flow If you an older woman You are a very spectal quad tn Lew1s. 
were out of our proverbtal helmets when

graduate or PhD student rn scrence area we wrote thts 
as soon as posstbfe! Thank you for your are wrlling to do your part. call Kelly at person and I have en-fOyed all the trmes 
cooperation--The DOME 1982 Stall lor MCAT Classes begrn rn June. con­1550 we have spent together You certarnly WESTCHESTER person needs
Frank n Bean

unued employment possttMe throughout deserve to have the best B1rthday ever ride/nders Sat,5/8 or later Call year Call232-2366 
Jarlbrrd
Famtly won 1belteve tl unless they see 11 Love. Mark 1229.share usual 
WashrnglonNeed three grad lr.! Call John 1730 Lost. $50 Reward Creamy White St ROOMATE WANTED Clean 2 bedroom 
JEROME. Jojo RichJohn s knrt Jackel Lost In Morns Inn or 

home. Good area. n1ce yard Furntshed My favonte Canuck. 
Need one grad lie Call Mac 1738 KANSAS Brian Kevin

Parkrng lot Apnl171h Call x283-1 075. except lor bedroom Call234-1661 days Prckrng up where I left oN/July 4th rn
CITY CHICAGO MOTOWN OR John Mike D (Shaun) or 234-9970 evnrngs Ask for Colleen Cahfornta/Carmei/Our little
Need 1 graduatron lrcket--BIG BUCKS! EVEN KEOKUK.IOWA IT JUST Tom DDenniolost pr of gold-wtre nmmed eye glasses tn nest/Fireworks nor1h of Santa Cruz/B1gDOESN T MATTER CAUSE BOY. I
Call Rrck-8713 TomMhard cover black case DESPERATELY 

Need nde lo DC as soon as possrble al­SURE DO LOVE YOU Sur/Strck shrft cars/Heebie-teebres/1 
Congrals on gradualrn ! II s been really

NEEDED call Mrke 234-9805 ter Sal . May 8 Call Bnan 4521 dtdn t know Mentor was tn Montana/1 m
JANET
Need 4 grad trckets$$$ call Jrm al 234-lun getlrn to know all ya II thrs year -I m 
late lor work?/Ntghl sarling/Barb and
9805 leave message gonna mrss ya II-Good Luck rn lhe lulure!

LOST BLUE N D GYM BAG LEFT BY Headrng for HOUSTON and have some Brll s/Break rn Lets keep rn touch!
THE BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL extra space? I need to get some bulky Monlreai/Oshawa/Oct 18t'Coach of the
0 00 For Sale: 2 grad tr. call Kevrn at Love ya II.

COURTS ON FRIDAY 4/26 I ttems hauled home Wtll share some Year /Mum/51 Gabrrei/Krd Canbou/MI
From the arcttc cold of Mmnesota to the DESPERATLY NEED THE GLASSES costs Call8621 
8168 Kathy 

strange clly of Des Momes From !he hot Royall The Oralory/Go Spo s/ The lnp LEFT IN THE BAG IF FOUND PLEASE spots ol Kansas Crly (0 K rt was really back rn overalls/Nragra Falls/1 Year An-
I NEED GRAD TIX WILL PAY $$$CALL Thanks to everyone who dona led I herr old 
CONTACT MIKE AT 277 -2046 OR 

Need nde 10 Phrlly on May I 2 or anylrme tacky Hrllon) to the arclles of St Lours ntversary/Arthur s /LeMans For-
BRIAN 1073 eyeglasses lor the poor rn Honduras

TURN IT IN TO LOST AND FOUND AT a~er Call Maryeva at 2909 From the rarny town of Loursvrlle 10 lhe mai/MS/Grandma s cookres/No They were taken down over spnng break THE AD BUILDING. 
even ratn1er town of Fort Wayne WE heat/Geltrng you home lor NEED GRAD TtX!I BIG BUCKS!! Call Brll 
NEED GRAD TIX, Please call Kevrn 1463 and over 350 people needrng glasses
SANG EVERYWHERE' Now you can see Chnstmas/Heebre-reebres/Drd you lrke were frlted Thanks lor your help LOSTLOST Three gold nngs and a gold Katz at1185 

the Mrdwest most famous srngrng group "A Farewell To Arms ?/1st rce ters want to attend Wrll pay reasonable$ NEED GRAD TICKETS! 6 brothers & SIS­

watch INVALUABLY SENTIMENTAL Tha Chamber Losers rn concert. Sun­skatrng/John Denver.srde B.411 51 
Thank you . Thank you . Thank you ! Call Mrke 288-9892 

nders needed to san leo (bay area)
(They cannot possrbly be worth as much day, May 2, at 8:00 In the Moreau Little Ed s/Barry Manrlow,srde 1,283 Bentley Edmonds. John Verfurth, Denrsleavtng around may 14 call jatme 233
lo you as they are to me) &&& REWARD Theater al Sl Mary s See also the LeMans/Caramel corn ex­6032 Rrschard. Kerth Veselik. Jrm Eracr. Jrm
&&& No questions asked PLEASE Women s Chorr and Collegrale Chorr lravaganza/MS/Valenlrnes Dayt Savrng Azzarello. Steve Hrlbert. John Blandford.
reconsider! Call 6723 DON'T MISS IT II my love lor you /Brunch/Uncle
Need rtde to ATLANTA for summer Can Brll Hough. Steve Mason. M1ke Colhns. 
Ted s/Happy 21st brrthday/Senror IF ANYONE PICKED UP A YELLOW Manlyn. my love. thanx lor the cooktes!P Bar/Bowling Green/A A rn
leave Fnday evenrng Call Dave al x6931 PERSONALS Kevtn 0 Shea. Joe Hunkler. Bnan Gold~ ATLANTAAflanta ATLANTA en. Pal Murphy. Jell Toner. Tom
Tom and Montca 

SPORT JACKET WITH BURGUNDY Regrna'/Admrn. Am 408/No parkrng at McGahan. Brll Kolb. Arch Traub. PeteTRIM FROM THE BADIN LAUNDRY Angela/1-kell s Easter/Ellen s/Study
Gomg to Denver tmmed1ately Please call Graham, John Gallo. Mrke Skelly, Pal
Patty.237-250t durrngthedayor616-695-60t8 Doyle
TWO WEEKS AGO PLEASE CALL VIC Do you have your copy of the Molarlly breaks/MS/MCAT/Commencement 
AT3253 books yet? No? Well then hurry -A year wtthout you was hke a year wtth­week/Next Year!
after 6 pm A•de w1th me or Ill nde w1th Your comm1ttment to our ne•ghborhood
out sunshme (not to mentton all the crap you chrldren has made a great rmpact on all of 
Juntper Press ts sttll market~ng a hmtten Have a great summer!Thanks tor JUS! 
you grve me) We still mrss you alot Hope

GET HOME CHEAPER! I NEED RIDE supply of the two smash hrls by berng you I II mrss you us. God Bless you Have a wonderfulthe personals bnghtened up your days tnTO NEW YORK CITY! I HAVE NO everybody s favonte cartoomsL M•chael LOVE.BrjOU
RIDE/RIDERS needed Sat PM.5/8 or summer and please remember us next fall 
the tron c1ty Have a great summer later TO WESTCHESTER area: call Maybe Ill even vtstt! Love. because we wtll be expect1ng you back 
LUGGAGE (THAT'S RIGHT, NO Mohnellt. 1n e1ther 
LUGGAGE!) LEAVING TUESDAY MAY Don't Make a Right s John. 
1229 Share usual Love from all of us at St Hedwrg Out­
MOniCa

11· CALL PAUL 1603 or last years chart-topper. now tn tiS Thank you for the help and lnendshrp you reachfourth edttton. 
gave me thts year. both are sttll much ap­LOST· One parr of Puma gym shoes BE On I he Road to Selling Out GOING TO SEATTLE AFTER GRADUA­
TION? NEED TO SEND SOME STUFF preciated 
COACH ADZIA. 
SERIOUS' I can frl both my feel rn your Hey-do•· 1delay-act today'

WITH YOU OR ILL TAKE YOURS CALL Cheryl 
Happy Frnals to you and all the ME SO WE CAN WORK OUT SOME­SIZE ELEVEN sneakers We took rhe PS-remember. A SINE WAVE NEVER players!
wrong shoes al the TWISTER GAME al VIC TAYBACK lor '>ENIOR FELLOW 

THING CHEAP' MARY 6787 Mom . Sts. and Spot and what Dan saw ENDS. ONLY THE AMPLITUDE AND 
RECESS Please call -8580----------Love.
TIME BASE CHANGE 
SUZY-0 FLECK' 21 Happy Brrthdays to The Fan 

REWARD: I need a ride to the RAL--Wrld ducks and turtles live lorever-­
Navy blue blazer e•changed at P W You! Love. the Babboos and a bunny P S Smce the season IS almost over. can 
CLEVELAND/AKRON area Can leave HAF One lrnal BWA lo lhe BWA Cos of 3NS
S Y R in Feb Call Rrck at 8713 tor your I have a pnvate balling lesson? Ill meet 
May8or9.DropollonTurnprkerslrne No and 2NS Stanford. Gus. and Mugs R S 
Gorng West? help' I need a Prle to IDAHO' you behtnd the dugout Hudson blazer 

luggage Call George-3182 Of course. m1gratton ts a factor CERTAINLY'
after exams Please call Kathy 8036 



Friday, April 30, 1982


lassifieds 
PERSONALS 

We rode !hem tor all !hey were worlh! What two g1rls hke us wanted wtlh those two nerds Ill neve figure out But ~~ was tun. wasn t 11? 
To: Sieve and Mark and Dave (by !he way. happy B·day Dave). tor ppul!lng up Party Dave !Oh well 1. Paul and Ed. Turtle and !he Plan!, lascrs!s and bledrng hearts. Joe (lor much slrangeness al· ready delivered and MUCH more Ia come). especrally !he Munchk1n. D1ane 
and Cheryl and Rachel and Suzanne and all the other gorgeous women ~yes. you loa. Mac) Carol and Laurel Ann and aliihe other reporters who worked wtth and wrth· out me. to news and and all the other departments. to Bruce and Ortt and other fools who undersland. and espec1ally lo aali !he people '" lhealre who really do care, and to the profs who don t even recogntze me any more and sttll haven t krlled me -11 s been real. and lun. but the real tun rs yet to come 
Joe 

Farewell Fellow Obserwres-.... Kalil Thanks lor everylhrng, espec1ally your pauence MAC· Ill m1ss ya' Now go gel a fOb!! Dive 0. -Hope we get to edt! the same ntgtlt next yeart Sarph ·Sorry for !he late n1gh1s Joe If you lake lh1s story, Ill love ya McGrath Ill m1ss you IOOI 
Mike Monk · The paper sl!ll looks l1ke HELL! Bruce · The compuler rs sluckl! HELPII (!hanks) 
Onl I hope !he lnp back home goes 
qUICkly Ryan · Slop by and see me 1n Ballo Skip (CAD) Hr !here!! I sllll have !hose champagne glasses 
Everybody Elae D1ane. Paul. Tar~. Rae· hel, Cheryl. D1ane. Bob. Tony A. Mar· garet. ChriS and everyone 1mtssed·-see ya next year--have a great summer, you hosers!!! Good day! ..Michele 
God help me!!! 1m roomrng wllh !he sys· tern god lhts summer !It Restless tS he never h1s mmd on where he rs all (Heh, heh) All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy Thank you Or!r lor !he room, and the v1ew But w1/ll survtve? 
None shall pass The Syslem 
CINDY LU WHO TABOOSTERBERG IS BARELY JUST 22 TODAYt Happy Blnhdayll Luv, The Incredible Non· Committal Men 
ATTENTION • ATTENTION · ATTEN· TION Thrs IS my Frnal Personal, ad lis a SPe<:•al one because 11s g01ng Ia 1wo of !he grealesl SMC ChiCkS 1n !he world One ts Marcta MacLennan. who 15 my tavortte b1g SISler, and a real specral person She t9 tactng a real tuff dec1ston · whether to go to a pres1tg1ous grad school or accept a cushy leach•ng rob Call and w1sh hereon· gralulal!ons al 4958 (SMC) The olher wonderful woman from across US 31 ts none other than that beauttlul southern belle. Drane DeMasi She has gal 10 be 
!he beS!Ih1ng for an NO male s ego srnce !he lrrsl Bookslore laurney She has promtsed me a nrte at the bars so gtve her a nng Ia remir>d her al 4821 (SMC) So heres lo a greal lulure lor lwo crazy SMC ers who wrll never be lao old 10 have some good clean fun You re !he besll 
J1m p s now 1get some x s and o s 

lsn 1 11 unreal how qutckly ttme has elapsed tn recent weeks 1 mean after sprtng break, afler the dark agesot w1nter No one wants to do any work though !heres lao much war11ng Ia be done As lrnals approach people sian chmbrng rnlo hllle holes Ia sludy. tao often lorgellng !he lnends lhey have made durrng school When they finally are ftntshed. everyone seems 10 have leH lrusl wan11o lhannk all ST !he lrrends I have made here durrng my freshman year Its been great! Marsh 
And !he !hanks rusl keep on comrn In my olher message: 1here were some people I lorgo110 men11on who deserve 11 So !hank you Lrnda P and Kalhy S (!he S S ) . !he Sl Ed s sacral commrss•on. Kev1n of An Taslal. and a !hanks 1n relrospecllo Tom 
Krueger. wtlhout whom my radto ex· penence would have been 1mposstble And now. to anyone else I may have for· gotten. etlher here or 1n the other ad ­
thanks a11yway. nrne rnonths aren t as easy to remember as they may seem Thanks lor every!h1ng. T1m Neely 
A warm goodbye to the Zahm·Farley crew. Nothing c.n eraae your memory. Reunion In F·llne: May 14, 1887. Be there or be CHUCK. 
KATHY Ice cream s a !real and chocoiale 1s dnppy You re really sweet bul Slrll k1nd ol dippy FROM AN INTELLECTUAL 
MMMMMMMBEAA MMMMMMMLOVES MMMMMMMGUS MMMMMMMLOTS' 
MIKEM Congratulaltons. t"ou sen tort P S Ill m1ss your abuse 
Jenny B ­And you !hough! you d never gel a per· sonal 
CD 
As I stt here I envtsron you there Whtle my gwtar gently sweeps Vet were past lhe clubhouse turn and 1nto the home 
Take Care Love. Tony 

The Observer wrll accept classrfieds Mon· day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classrlieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the busmess day pnor to rnsertron All classrlieds must be prepard. 
-page 15 erther in person or through the marl. 
KATHY HARVEY 
Thanks lor mak1ng lh1s year and THE SECTION (Farley 1 AI !he besl ever'!!! Congratulations and Good Luck!!!!!!!! 
We Love You. THE SECTION P S We II M•ss You!!! 
ATTENTION MUSICIANS OR TECHNICIANS--WANTED Mus1c iND) al !he Blue·Gold game!! Lrve or tape ARE YOU STUDENTS UP TO IT? I' Subway Alumnus 
TO THE OBSERVER STAFF Thank you lor mak~ng me feel so al home I have enroyed lhrs rob more !han I can ever !ell you You are all very specral people!! 
Otane P S Ill be back tor collee..save me a doughnul! 
People needed to drrve standard shtft car !rom N D to Boston area after ftnals. all you pay IS gas Call277·1489 
The last tssue! No tl cant be true. surely we ve gotta put some more of these suck­ers out The computer ts bound to break down, how about some mtspelhngs. or some mtssed deadlines. or maybe some StUy personallueds? Nawwwww. none of 
!hal could happen up here llell you whal. leis publiSh all summer llh1nk I m lever~sh. see ya all Sunday. Ryan 
T a !he Roman Gods of 421. lhe Toga atra1r was a lot of fun RA s next year? come on get a gnp Thai s a )Ob lor a d1sabled cnp Wi!h I he Yukon Jack and you 3 as RA s. Howard wtll become a zoo tn a day No offense !hough. I wrsh you all good luck. Its a postllon tn whtch you three may get 
To THE SUITE .. B & L Tavern. !he Me11o boo!h. weekends 1n Chtcago. sleep. kamtkaze part1es. Davtd Letterman. sleep. road lnps, Den­ny s. sleep. Grand Slams. Sam and Anne. sleep. Mary Ann and Albert. Shirley s. sleep, section goll. stmulated woodgra1n message pads. sleep. Whrch One? 
you lake !he phone . sleep. marlrmza· Irons. grn and lome. sleep. !he quole board. M·A·S·H. sleep. I hdle you all . 
·c mon. guys. be nrce . sleep What more could we ask tor? Thanks 
tor a great year  tl Un8ver happen agatn  
Metro  
VICki·  

Whal are you dOing Ia me? Thanks lor !he lwo besl years. and lor aliihal s slllllo come li•gural•vely speaklny) 
Love Bill 
To I he lliUS(riQUS spar!S Slalt · 
Skip, may Brlly Packer some day call and ask you for an tntervtew Your secretary. Lenny Klompus refuses to let h1m lalk Ia you Alllhal Packer can hear IS a mutt!ed votce tn the distance siiy1ng. 
Hey Charl1e. I shollhe dog huh huh I ShO!Ihe dOg 
Ortt. may you never be wtthout the protectton of your nearest Kempet group -espec1ally tf you go near an A&P rn New Orleans Sugar Ray would be nalhm wrlhoul you 
Frank. we s1111 luv ya. even !hough I probably dumped more of 11 on you !han on my garden at home 
Grass. al leas! we know you d1dn 1gel pa1d $10,000. allhough !hal lmal layup was well worth the pnce ol admrsston 
Dzave and Chns. good luck and keep up !he Alber! s lradtiiOn Pauhe. ·How bout your tmmense­ness? 
Bnan. I sttll have my Enterpnse radto goll hat -I wonder tf tt s worth more than the company now Thanks lot !he memones (TWSS) 
Ouard CHAMBER WINNERS. Forge! !he cui· downs. pu!·downs and humor (or lack !here of) Thanks lor everylh~ng! I LL MISSY ALL' M1ke D 
To. The FlaMer 425.6.7 Parly Sluds. We love 'you and we II mtss you next year! 
Love. Your hlle booze hound and the Polo partter 
Bnan. Thank you lor makrng my year so spe­Cial I m going Ia mrss you nexl year 
Love Enn  
Scally. You assasmate walchrng you!  me  11 s  been rnce Love.  
Dear OMAOID.  

From crabby Sundays Ia bubblers. Wanda abuse. new phone system. awful champagne. premeditated chance en­counlers. Cap! Slop. p1mp~ng Load God. ptcktng me up 1n vtew of Span1sh class. babblrng cards. and !he resl. you ve been a wonderful frtend 
Love alway_s. · The Sleepless D)reclar p s Ask me For what IS a lnend? 
Hey PebblesI D•d I forge! Ia I ell you Ieday !hall love you? Well, I do Today. lamar· row and the next day. and the day atter that I wtsh you sunshtne and pteCe of mmd unttl I see you agam Soon. real soon Z 
' Bam-Bam 
Hey MilCh 
My poem ab1f1ly ran dry bul Congrals on the Degree Good luck wtth whatever you do'" the lulure 
Love. Melinda 
Dtane. 
There he,s never been anyone that have had a better ltme worktng wtlh than you Thanks lor your concern. and good luck wtth whatever comes of the future Take Care 
Melinda 
To everone I know from lhe Observer. 
Thanks lor maktng my year so com· plate You au were so n1ce to me that 11 I was ever expenencmg a bad day. J could count on betng cheered up when I went to work Take Care. you are all a greal bunch of people See you nexl year love. Melinda · 
INNSBAUCKEAS SoHbaii/Cookoul TODAY 4/30 '" Greenl1eld Relreshmenls Iactually BEER. wh1ch IS beHer1 and food wrll be prov1ded Only 1$ 2·6 P M Brs 
Dann!t 
RUGBY ELEGANT VIOLENCE IIIII 
IS RUGBY A SOCIAL DISEASE? FIND OUT SAT 1 PM STEPAN 
IN RUGBY THERE ARE NO WIN· NERS ONLY SURVIVORS FINDOUf WHY SAT AT 1 PM BEHIND STEPAN 
DO RUGBY PLAYERS EAT THEIR DEAD?? FIND OUT SATURDAY 
BE THERE SATURDAY AS SEAN SUL· LIVAN LEADS HIS FIGHTING IRISH RUGBY TEAM AGAINST THE SPAR· TANS OF MICHIGAN STATE· THE AC· TION STARTS AT I PM SAT BEHIND STEPAN 
MARK. Thanks lor be1ng a lrrend and more · a tennts partner and coach. study buddy. dmercompanton.lormaldate. and authonty on the dehnttton of wench Good luck all U! 
Love. Ka11e and I he Molher·<•nle MONICA. Sempre Ub1 DESIGNER Sub Ub1! The Chair Fags 

BUFFALO BUFFALO 

BUFFALO TRUCK There will be a Buffalo truck. Stay tuned to your mailbox lor further details. Will load May 10th at bookstore. 
I LOST MY GREEN GLASS!! LIFE JUST ISN T THE SAME WITHOUT IT! I LEFT IT IN ROOM 103 0 SHAG THIS TUESDAY MOANING IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL MICHOLE AT 7951 !I 
Go ahead and ask me··Where rs !he besl place on thts whole campus to STUDY??? OK Ill deparl you Wllh one of the secrets of the untverse 307. yes. room 307 Cushrng. !hal s !he sevenlh room on !he lhird floor allhe Engrneerrng burld1ng OK Now go ahead and ask me WHY 
No way Htnt: Don I stt downn wtthout wtptng off your seat!!! hahahahahahahahahaha P 5 The vector forces tn that room are somethmg else!! 
LETS GO TO VEGAS LETS JUST HIT THE ROAD AND GO GO GO BABE IS LOOKING SO GOOD 1352 YOU VE MADE LIFE WORTH LIVING AGAIN 
THANKS 
II HURDS so good ! 

Helen, Lrsa. & MP· Go ahead and try to get even-were looktng forward to ttl Remember what son 
the calendar tor 4/30! Your place or ours? Bob & Sieve PS· Subs served al 4.30. launchrng a! 8 
Pal. Joe. Pal & Tom (aka Psycho. Plales. Mr AIESEC. & Ahell)· Congralula!lons. good luck. & !hanks lor all !he greal lrmes Sec11on 8·A 
Joe Hurd· We II m1ss gell~ng !he scoop from Blabman & Girl Blender, exolrc dan crng, l1cense plales. & !he general gooa ttmes we ve had thts year Congratula­llans & good luck. from Secllon 8·A PS· Lei s see I hal name rn !he paper. lor !he 
101h & perhapslas111me JOE HURD 
WORKING AT THE OBSERVER HAS BEEN UNIQUEIII Thanks to Monk, Bruce, Dzave, Ortl, Skip, Tom, Ryan, Ray, Chris, John and Joe lor the Interesting, enlightening and tun ex· perlenc'" that enllvl!ned this year. Cheryl, Monica, Rachel, Maura and Tarl: I wouldn't have survived the lor· mer's antics without your advice and help. Most special thanks to my year· long typesetter, Stttphen, whose skills spoiled me consistenly. HAVE A GREAT SUMMER EVERYONE, I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO MORE GOOD TIMES NEXT FALLI 
lOve, Suzanne 

315 Farley Combrned VISits to l•rst floor Keenan 
1. can hardly watt to see a perfect record lor nexl year on 41h Happy Summer 
s 
KKK 

Hope the ftshmg ltne IS long enugh for summer to have no stnngs attached Thanks tor !he lrrendshrp 
Waumg tor execut1on 
Tom. 

Thanks for trymg to understand Remember. a tur11e ts naturally slow and tnes to h1de 1n a shelhsh world. but wtth a little help from lnnds. a turtle can be a per· son too Peace Fnend 
Love. Cheryl To all my lnends '" BP 2·N 
It has been great havmg you as fnends Have a fantastiC summer. wnte tf you can and Ill see you next tall for more tun 
Love. Szan 
Peggy 
Havrng you as a tnend lh•s year has been !he besll! The dorm won 1 be !he same wtthout you. Ill m1ss you and our long lalks Bul France dosl call. so WI!haul any more adteu. I btd thee. Au Revoir and Bon Chance Take care ol yourself and 
remember us as you slroll lhe Champs Elysees 
Love. 
Suzanne 
PS send Frenchmen! 
C BUBBLES BOBOWSKI IS SUCH A WOMAN 
Nobody ever satd runntng a dally ts easy. but why do we go out ol our way to prove tt? As my tnvolvemenl wtth thts paper has grown thts year. my lun 1'1 ts also Its been a pleasure worktng wtth dll ol you To the sen10rs (Or!l. Quard. Sk1p. MAC. John. A1ch. Kelly. Mark. M1ke. Cheryll good luck wtth your lutures l hope you all get real jobs To the underclassmen (Chns Ed. Kelh. Suzanne. Joe. Tom. Ray. M1c· helle. Rachel. Valerre. T1m. Tom. Kell1. Sieve. Bob. V1c. M1ke, Carner leis go a111 aga1n nexl year To Drane I !hough! 11 would be tmposstble lor anyone to ltlltn tor Shirley Bul you ve done an excellenlrob 
Have a great summer Ill see you all at Senter Bar (maybe lhts ltme I wont leave w1th a contusron) 
Davrd 
01 aliihe A1chards 1n So""· yc.u re !he an· ly D ... Bon voyage 
There 
IS 
a 
way 
We 
know 
We 
Jove 
We 
w1n 
.V1ole1s. 
Dear Moltnellt. 
Congra1ula110ns 'IYou d1dn !Iell me know. I d1dn I ask 1 Ill mrss you nexl year You are rrghl aboul !h1s place (1n 
No Title). thanks tor putttng tl tnto words Thanks for /he msprrafr, vt Thanks tor the dots Thanks lor everything 
And never stop. at least unttl tl has all been satd You are nght ~agam tn No T1tle) about everyone havtng tl tnsrde them Four small frames ts a good place to put tl You showed me that 
It  was  fun  We II  have to do tl agatn  
somettrne  
S1ncerely  
Two doors down  

MAYDAYI MAYDAYI 
SPECIAL NOTICE The Top 20 T1me Tunnel w1ll be heard on yowlnendly ne•ghbO!haod WSND fro•n 4 PM TO 6 PM •nsleadollhe usual tune. !hiS week only 
TO ALL THE OBSERVERITES WHO HAD TO TOLERATE AN OFTEN LOUD, COMPLAINING, OBNOXIOUS PHOTOGRAPHER (Sorry, I was trained that way) I WILL MISS YOU ALL NEXT YEAR. I'LL BE BACK TO VISIT THOSE WHO HAVEN'T, LIKE I, MOVED ON TO BIGGER AND BETTER THINGS, OR AT LEAST BIGGER AND BETTER CITIESI THANKS FOR ALL THE GOOD TIMES (AND BAD) MANY OF WHICH ARE PRESERVED FOREVER ON FILM. I LOVE YOU ALL. 
CHERYL 
JOE. ILL BE BACK NEXT YEAR AFTER THE FIRST SNOW'!! SEE YOU THEN CHERYL 

RYAN VEABERKMOES FRANKLIN COLLEGE WANTS YOUI 
Baokslore Scorekeepers. You all know how much your help was ap· prec1a!ed I had a Ia! ollun Wllh !he lourna· menl. and I hope you all did also My only regrel rs !hal I drdn I gel lo know each ol 
you personally For those or you who are senrors (especially Mary Beth), 1 hope you can relurn lor lulure lournamenls To lhe olhers. I hope you II be w11h us lor Bookslore XII 
Dave 
Franny Good luck. you lillie Lassre Were gonna mtss yout How wtU Gerry survtve? How wrll we?? 
Love. Mary& Chrrs 
M1chae1 4 down 3 Ia go Aren I you lucky? Oh yeah. Happy 22' 
Your SMC S1s 
Gang 
Memones ·talktng · all-ntghters ·dances· last shuttle (secunty!) the beach PAR fY D1ana ·super freak I 0 ·dales? ·roo-the frozen tundra-preny gtrlsl 
Love. BIISy& M B 
To I he 11C Grace Guys 
Freshman Year U of M. penlhouse style · happy hours · SYR s · 82 bouls piZza · 2 13 F s punch · JD/CR . Calch 
!hal BuzzI Love. The Grrls 
NO men needed -wanted to help SMC fresh move tnlo dorms on Aug 28 Stgn up 1n Student Acttvrttes Olltce 166 Le Mans or call 284·4319 by May 4 
Franc1s Nolan. Good luck tn Ireland next year! I m sure you II have a surreal lime! Don 1 tel your reporttng abtltTy go to waste Love, C1ndy C 
Colleen. Cork. Chns E""· M B & Frances You ve been I he BEST lrrends ol !he BEST year allhe BEST school My BEST Ev1e 
At the npe old dge of rwo our darlmg DYXZ are dead' Luv Bully & L C 
I m rjnvtng to LA & looktng tor one nder Call Bob 3482 
Hey Observerrlest 
Mrke Say ht!O.Jenntfer Bruce Anott1er summer? Margaret M1chtgan ts tcky Suzdnne Save those ktds 

Kellt DontlorqeT the tann1ng buller' Maurcl Vegettlbles lhts yedr? Pdul Brte tnlo some luc1es Rachel Sa<1dle my slee.l? Dave & Ray Whal sl.lle IS No ,., Sdrph Keep runntng Alex Cleveland does whdf? To everyone Have a warm. sweaty sum· rner II s been a good sprtng See you And 
the mosquitoes tn AugusT Ryan p s Senters You II get yours la1er 
To Ctlrus orbs. the pot woman and all my other assorted chums. buddtes and dtn· dtn compantans -be warm. stay cool and lll!ry Ia send posl cards from Callier· 
Bye Bye Ryan 

l..Jsa, We be buzzm real soon Ry 
..... 



This Week BeerSueciilJ§ Budweiser 24cans 6e99 Miller Lite 24cans 7e29 Old Milwaukee 24cans 5.49 Pabst l2pks 3e59 Coors Light 12 pks 5.99 

1621 South Bend Ave. 
WE WILL BEAT ANY ADVERTISED PRICE 
(YOU MUST BRING IN THEIR AD) 
Keg Special Generic 25e49 Generic Light 25e49 
(Pkgincludes ice, 50 cups Deposit required) 
~ 
; 
r 
f 
l 
~ 
I 
I 
L 
..... 
Sports :;l~l~r~t~·e~~~s~==================F=rt="da=y~,~=pr=il=30=,=19=8=2=pa=g=e=16 
lh lbe ( )/JS('ITer and lbe .·lssucioted Press 
The Blue-Gold game, the annual intrasquad spring football scrimmage, will take place tomorrow in Notre Dame Stadium. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be admitted free of charge by showing their ID. Tickets for the general public are available for S2.50 for adults and $1 for children under 17 if purchased today. Tickets purchased tomorrow are S3.50 (adults) and S1. 50 (children). Proceeds will benefit the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley and its annual scholarship fund drive. -The Ob­server 
The 1982 ND/ SMC Ski Team banquet is scheduled for tomorrow evening at the Knights ofColumbus Hall in Mishawaka. All ski team members and their guests are invited. The dinner will begin at 6:.30 p.m. followed by the awards ceremony and dance at H:.30 p.m. Contact Barry Tharp ( 1 5 70) ifyou plan attend. 
The Observer 
NFL scouts will give a time trial to any interested Notre Dame senior Monday (May 3 ). Anyone wishing to be timed by pro scouts should report behind the ACC by the weight room by 4 p.m. 
-The Observer 
The Flanner Meteorsdefeated Dillon II, 5-2 yester­day in 12-inch softball playoff action. -The Observer 
Notre Dame's goHteamciosesout its season this weekend at the Northern Intercollegiate Invitational. The 54-hole tournament runs today through Sunday at the University ofIowa ­
The Observer 
Saint Mary's softball team will serve as host tor the Indiana Division Ill State Championships this weekend. The Belles, seeded first in the tournament, have a first-round bye. Notre Dame, Grace College, De Pauw, Manchester College, Huntington 
University and Anderson College will participate in the tournament, which began this morning on the Angela diamond. -The Observer 
ND romped over DePaul in men's tennis action yesterday afternoon at the Courtney Tennis Center. The 8-1 Irish win improved the team's spring record to 19-9 with one match remaining. Mark McMahon, Notre Dame's No. 1 singles man easily defeatedJoe Bonfitto, 6-I, 6-.3. to improve his individu tal record to 26-2, thus keeping alive his hopes for Notre Dame's first representa­tion in the NCAA tournament in nearly a decade. Tom Fallon's team will be looking for its fourth straight 20-win season Sunday when it entertains Nortwestern at 1 p.m. -The Observer 


Refrigerator Returns NOT April30 ONLY May 1 Behind Stepan 
' 10am-6pm 

ALL refrigerators must be emptied, cleaned and defrosted. A $5 fine will be levied for each requirement not completed. Warning: If refrigerators are not returned, S. U. will pick it u.p 
and the entire deposit will be lost. 

The Irish swept Valpo in a baseball double header yesterday on Jake Kline field. In the tirst game, Notre Dame's Jim Cameron drove in the winning run with a ninth inning single as the Irish posted a 2-1 win. Tom Conlin ( 2-2 ) earned the victory in that game. Notre Dame scored a 7-2 win in the nightcap. Rick Chryst had a two-run single and Phil Dingle drove in another in the four-run third inning of the second game. Pitcher Brian Smith (6-2) was credited with the win. The victories raised Notre Dame's record to 
23-14 on the year and kept Notre Dame's thin hopes alive for an NCAA tournament bid. The Irish now have won 10 of their last 12, and have six games left, all at home. Tomorrow morning the Irish will face Wright State in a double header beginning at 11:30 a.m. ' Sunday Illinois-Chicago Circle visits Jake Kline Field for a 1 p.m. twinbill. Notre Dame closes out the 1982 season with two games Tuesday (May 4) against visiting Northwestern scheduled for 1 p.m. 
-The Observer 

John Paxson and Jeanine Blatt will be presented with the Edward W. Krause Awards as The Observer's Ath­letes of the Year tomorrow at halftime of the Blue-Gold football game in the stadium. Sports Editor Emeritus Michael Ortman will make the presentations with "Moose" Krause, Athletic Director Emeritus. -The Observer 
The Midwest Catholic Championships in track and field will be contested tomorrow, and Notre Dame will serve as host for the meet. Competition is slated to begin at 10 a.m. at the the track behind the ACC. -The Observer 
Farley and B-P will square off Sunday in the interhall soccer championship game after both posted semifinal victories yes­terday. Farley defeated Walsh, 1-0, as freshman Mary Wiegand scored the game's only goal. Su•e Lupo posted the shutout. Breen­Phillips nipped Lyons, :'J-2, in the other semitinal. Junior Liz Fisher scored all three goals for B-P,-including the game winner with less than four minutes to play. Sunday's championship game is scheduled for 2:.30 p.m. outside Stepan Center. -The Observer 

Notre Dane8, DePaul1 

NBA PLAYOFFS (All senes best-of-seven) 
SW!gles 

Eastern Conference Semifinals 
No.1-Marl< McMamnJNO) del Joe Bonfltto 6-1 Tomorrow's Games
6-3 

Boston at Wash1ngton (Senes lied. 1-1)
No.2-TcmDonohue(O)def JmFalvey6-4,6-2 

Ph1ladelph1a at Milwaukee (Philadelphia leads 
No. 3 -Tan Hartzell (NO) del Mike Ulbert 6-1 senes, 2-0)
6~ . 
Sunday's Games
No. 4-Tan Rob1son (NO) del Bruce Pales 6-3 

Boston at Washington Philadelphia at Milwaukee 
6-1 ' 
No.S-MtkeGibbons (NO) del RICkVelasco6~ 

Wednesday, May 5 Washington at Boston, (n) 
6-1 ' 
No. 6-Tan Pratt (NO) w1ns by default (DePaul 
brought only ftve players) Dol.bles No. 1 -McMamn/Falvey (NO) to/Dordlue 3-6. 6-3, 6-2 No. 2 -John Novatny/Paul PalesNelasko 6-3, 6-4 No. 3-Pratt!G1bbons w1n by default 

Milwaukee at Philadelphia, (n), 1f necessary Friday, May 7 Boston at Washmgton, (n), 1f necessary
det Bonftt­

Philadelphia at Milwaukee, TBA. 1f necessary Sunday, May 9
t:Jztk del 

Washington at Boston. TBA. if necessary Milwaukee at Ph1ladelph1a, TBA. 1f necessary 
Western Con-..caSemifinals 

Tonight's a-Seattle at San Antonio (Senes tied. 1-1) Los Angeles at Phoen1x (los Angeles leads senes. 
2-0) 
Sundlfy•aa­Seattte at San Antomo Los Angeles at Phoemx 
Wlldnndlly, r..y 5 San Antomo at Seattle, (n) Phoemx at Los Angeles. (n). 1f necessary 
Frlday, ...y7 Seattle at San Antonio. TBA. 1f necessary Los Angeles at Phoemx. (n). d necessary 
Sundlly, r..y II Phoemx at Los Angeles. 1f necessary San Antonio at Seattle, if necessary 
NATIONALLEAGUE 

East  
w  L  
St. LOUIS  14  6  
Montreal  9  7  
New York  10  9  
Pittsburgh  8  9  
Ch1cago  7  13  
Ph1ladelph1a  5  13  
Wast  
Atlanta  15  5  
San D1ego  13  5  
Los Angeles  10  10  
San Franc1sco  8  11  
C1nc1nnati  7  12  
Houston  8  14  

Yesterday's Results 

San D1ego 6, New York 0 
Pittsburgh 9, Houston 6 
Atlanta 3, Ch1cago 0 
Los Angeles 4, Ph1ladelph1a 0 
San Franc1sco 7, Montreal 3 
Only Games Scheduled Today'a Games 

GB 
3 3.5 4.5 7 8 
1 
5 
6.5 
7.5 
8 
Pet. 
700 563 526 471 350 278 
.750 722 
sao 
421 
368 364 

St. Louis (Andujar 2-1) at CinCinnati (Pastore 2·1). n Houston (Sutton 2-1) at Pittsburgh (Candelana 0-1 ). n Chicago (Bird 1-3) at Atlanta (Boggs 1-Q), n Philadelphia (Carlton 1-4) at San DM>gO (Curt1s 2-o). n Montreal (Lea 1-0) at Los Angeles (Valenzuela 2-2), n New York (Scott 2-2) at San Frai1Clsco (Gale 1-Q). n 
AMERICAN LEAGUE • 

East  
w  L  PeL  GB  
Boston  12  7  .632  
Detroit  12  8  600  .5  
Milwaukee  9  7  563  1.5  
Cleveland  8  9  .471  3  
Toronto  8  11  421  4  
New York  7  10  .412  4  
Baltimore  5  12  294  6  
w- 
California  15  6  .714  
Ch1cago  11  7  .611  25  
KansasCny  10  8  556  3.5  
Oakland  10  11  476  5  
Seattle  10  12  .455  5.5  
Mmnesota  8  13  381  7  
Texas  6  10  375  6.5  

Yesterday's Resuns Cleveland 5. Seattle 1 Oakland 9, Baltimore 6 Cahforma 2, New York 0 Ch1cago 3, Detroit 2 Toronto 7. Kansas C1ty 0 
Only Games Scheduled 
Today'sG-Cahforma (Will 2-0) at Ba1t1more (Palmer 0-t ). n Oakland (langford 1-3) at Cleveland (Denny 2-1 ). n Texas (Hough 2-1) at Boston (Torrez 1-1). n Seattle (Perry 1·2) at New York (Alexander 0-1), n Detroit (Wilcox 1-2) at Chteago (Trout 1-2). n Toronto (Leal2-1) at KansasC1ty (Gura2-1). n Milwaukee (Haas 1-0) at M1nneSO!a (Enckson 2-2). n 
NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE Stanley Cup Semifinals (All senes best-of-seven) Last Night's Rasuns 

Wales Conference Championship Series Chlcago4. Vancouver 1 (Senestsed.1·1J Campbell Conference Championship Series New York Islanders 5. Quebec 2 (Islanders lead 
"""es. 2 -o> [ PERSONALS 
CHRIS, 
IT WAS FUN, BUT ABUSE IS READY FOR A VACATION. WE LEAVE YOU WITH A LAST BIT OF ADVICE FORTH£ 
SUMMER: A MENTAllY HEALTHY DIET DOES NOT INCLUDE POPCORN, DONUTS OR LIVER!!! SEE YOU IN TH£ FALL. 
LOVE CHERYL AND SUZANNE 
Just hke to thank y all or a great year AG-Up at dawn! K K -Roo bound TL -It could have been Guam KF -Will p1tch nght handed RJ -Roughnl'Cklng w1th a 1 9 JM-Always says the nghtthmg TO -The Hook Shot God• MK-Lees and JJ. What a team• TK -Needs a match1ng pmk sweater 
JM -Shoollng lor No 1 pervert AT-LAKEII! PV -Here comes the JC -The Mad Hawauan JL -On the way to the shower 
-MW(Tex) 

SAINT MARY S EDITOR EMERITUS. 
I GUESS I M ON MY OWN NOW I REMEMBER EVERYTHING YOU TOLD ME IT MAY BE IMPOSSIBLE TO LIVE UP TO YOUR IMAGE AROUND HERE. BUT ILL TRY TO MAINTAIN THE STAN· DARDS KEEP IN TOUCH AND REMEMBER ME WHEN YOUR PULIT­ZER COMES THROUGH 
GRATEFULlY. • YOUR PROTEGEE 
Dear Mary Jo Rad1cal. So. you regmngto blackmail me tor those Econ notes. huh? Flowers and candy 1n exchange tor knowledge? Well. 11 s not go1ng to work (how about money?) The Absent Econom1st 
-Thanks to everyone who has made ttus a tun and product1ve year 

---------------------------~------~-~ -~---­The Observer -Sports Friday, April 30, 1982 -page 17 
NBA's 2nd season continues 

By WILLIAM R. BARNARD 
A.P Sports Writer 
If the Boston Celtics lose in the 
playoffs to the Washington Bullets 
or anyone else, some people will say 
they peaked too soon -that their 
63-19 regular-season record was too 
good. 
Coach Bill Fich, however, will hear nothing ofit. "There's no such thing as peaking," Fitch said recently. "If you 
continuedfrom page 20 
"part of Ken's problem relates to his 
overall accuracy. lie's just got to 
practice getting the hall to his 
receivers." 
O'Hara, a walk-on out of Cyprus, 
Calif., has opened some eyes with his 
performance this spring. "Jimmy's a 
very smart player," Hudson says. 
"He learns to read the defenses very 
well, and he's an accurate thrower. 
lie's come along very fast this spring 
-a lot faster than I thought he 
would." 
O'Hara and Karcher share the 
same weaknesses, though. Both men 
lack Kiel's game experience, and 
both "have to learn not to force the 
football at times," according to their 
coach. 
The quarterback standings won't change when the Irish report hack in August, hut anything can happen once fall practices begin, says Hud­son. 
"Blair's got the nod now because he's made a few more big plays in the scrimmages. But by no means has the starter for the Michigan game been determined. All the players have to understand that" 
IRISH ITEMS -The Irish finish 
out spring football tomorrow with 
the S2nd annual Blue-Gold game, 
representing the last of the 20 al­
lowable practices. Kickoff is set for 1 
p.m. in the Stadium ...Gerry faust's tentative plans call for the No. I of­fense and defense to battle the No.2 unit~ during the lirst half. In the M:cond half the tirst and second tt:ams will combine to oppose the No. 3 offense and defense. Special rcd-jerseycd units will handle all kickoff situations. 
Among those not slated to play be· cause of injury arc center Mark Fis­cher (recovering from mononucleosis), defensive tackle Kevin Griffith (knee), safety Rod Bone (knee), linebacker joe Rud­zinski (shoulder) and fullback Larry Moriarty (broken finger). 
ESPN will televise the game on its national cable network (Channel 4 on Indiana Cablevision). . Five delayed showings on ESPN are 

ANTIQUES 
(OflkeK Oddif.ie3) 

located 
West of Airport 
on U.S. 20 

232-3659 
rrHE OAR HOUS~ 
1• Beer . i 
1 
U Open t1ll : 1• Caquor t 3:00amlli
f• rryou ~ ! -SINGLES BARI:
I-BOOZE &DANCING :272·7818 •
I: i
U.S. 31 North : 

. (I bloc_.!!_~-~-~!!, of Holida!J !!!!!L~
I 
spell it p-e-e-k-i-n·g, then that's dif­
ferent. If you peek around Friday's 
game to Sunday's, then that gets a 
team in trouble. 
"Peaking is for race horses, when you say the horse left his best on the track somewhere. Or peakingcan be if a team leaves its best at practice. Yes, you can do that.· 
"But how can you peak too soon by playing games during the regular season? It would be like telling a sprinter to slow down in the middle 
... QBs 
scheduled: tomorrow at H p.m.; Sun­day at 3:30a.m.; Monday at 12 noon; Wednesday night at midnight and Thursday at 4 p.m.. Graduating All· America cornerback john Krimm, recently drafted by the New Orleans Saints, is slated to be a guest com­mentator for the broadcast 
Notre Dame swimmer Jeanine Blatt and Irish basketball star John Paxson will be honored at halftime as the Observer's female and male Athletes of the Year. The will be presented with the second annual Edward W. Krause Awards by Moose himself. 
ofa 1 00-yacd dash. What should 1do, 
tell them not to play good?" 
Whether or not the defending Na­
tional Basketball Association cham­
pion Celtics peeked or peaked, they 
lost their home-court playoff ad­
vantage to the Washington Bullets 
Wednesday night. The 103-102 
defeat against the Bullets evened 
their best·of-seven series at 1·1, with 
three of the remaining five games 
scheduled for Landover, Md., start· 
ing with Game 3 tomorrow. 
In the other Eastern Conference 
semifinal, Philadelphia took a 2-0 
lead over Milwaukee wih a 120-108 
triumph over the Bucks. 
In the Western Conference, Los 
Angeles whipped Phoenix II 7-98, 
the lakers second straight 19-point 
triumph, and Seattle bombed San 
Antonio 114-99. 
Those two series shift to Phoenix 
and San Antonio tonight. 
Earvin "Magic" Johnson lived up 
to his nickname with 19 points, 12 
rebounds, 12 assists and five steals 
for the Lakcrs. 
Kareem Abdul-jabbar led Los An· geles' balanced offense with 24 points. Norm Nixon added 21, and 

The Irish baseball team swept a doubebeader from Valparaiso
jamaal Wilkes joined johnson with 

yesterday. Notre Dame bas six home games remaining, and bas a
19. Dennis johnson led the Suns 

shot at the NC4A tournament. (Photo by Cheryl Erte/1)
with 27 points, 17 of them in the 
second quarter. 


On an oyster. aone-piece shell would be btg trouble. But with Memorex cassettes. tt's a btg benefit. 
Ustng ultra high frequency sound. we sontcallyweld tt1e two halves of every Memorex cas­sette to form a stngle. soltd cas­sette shell. 
This stngle-untt constructton gives Memorex cassettes a struc­tural ng1d1ty whtch IS crittcal to prectse tape-to-head contact. 


Remember. even the sltghtest So put your next recording vanatton mcassette shape can on Memorex. In HIGH BIAS II. alter the way the tape comes in METAL IV or normal btas MRXI. contact wtth the head. Which can Each has a one-ptece shell. drasttcally affect sound repro-Whtch, on an oyster. IS a bad duction. tdea. 
That's why we prefer sonic But on a cassette, it's a 
It keeps our cassette struc­ture as true as our remarkable sound reproduction. Which, thanks to our untque tape formulation and an extraordmary btnd­ing process called Permapass:· will" rematn true to ltfe play after play. Even after 1000 plays. 
In fact. a Memorex cassette will always de­
weldtng. ~-...~re~a~l~pe~a~r~l.~~~~ 
HOW MORE THAN EVER liver true sound repro-WE ASI: IS IT LIVE, ORIS IT duction. or we'll replace it. Free. 

MEMOREX 


-------~----~ ------~ 

r 
The Observer -Sports Friday, April 30, 1982 -page 18 
I Linkage (above), is the latest victim ofthe Derby jinx. A winner
• 
atKeene/and last week, the horse bas been yankedfrom the 1OBth Run for the Roses. This year's race bas a Notre Dame connection ­as Skip Desjardin discovers in his column this week, see page 20. 
(APPboto) 
Saturday vs. after the game 
Softbatt 
FIELD 




I 
6P 6P 6P 
atqt> Nil .Alumni Assnriati.on 'rr.st'nt.s 
The Senior Alumni Picnic 
&aturbay, .aayl, 1D:30-12:3D, at ~ltpan Clltnttr Hot Dogs Beer Snacks Art>t 1\lumni utlub. 
£t>prrst'ntatiul's UJq.o urill qaul' inf.ormatiDn on rlubs anb ritil's for 
•
s1nt.or.s 
No 
~ 

Many missing 


3rd largest Derby field ready 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. (AP) -A one­eyed colt, a filly and a gelding were among 20 3-year-olds entered Thursday for the Kentucky Derby in a year in which several top can­didates have been sidelined by ill­ness and injury. 
Cassaleria, missing his left eye, drew the No.18 post position for tomorrow's richest Derby evt:r, while the filly, Cupecoy's Joy, drew the rail in the third-largest Derby field ever. 
Cupecoy'sJoy also was entered in today's Kentucky Oaks for 3-year­old fillies, but Roberto Perez, her breeder and co-owner, said she would start in the Derby if she drew an inside post position. "We're in for the big one," Perez said after the draw. 
Cupecoy's Joy will try and join Regret ( 191 5) and Genuine Risk 
Braves,others 

Baseball season sees many streaks 
he should take some ofthe blame for  
the skid. The real blame, however, must be found among Braves pitchers, who  FortnerND coach  
yielded 30 earned runs in the five losses. The big disappointment was  'J R • l  d • 

1

:~~~~~~~=:~~:i:; ~%';h~~:;~~p E,tner tp e"' tes at 89 
The St. Louis Cardinals won 12 in a row, and the San Diego Padres won 11 in a row. The Cards feel they got the better of the shortstop swap this spring that sent Garry Templeton to San Diego for Ozzie Smith. Smith is hitting .305 for the Cards and has rwo homers, two-thirds ofhis career total. Templeton is hitting only .232, but he has scored 14 runs. 
I 
The Boston Red Sox, Chicago White Sox and Detroit Tigers all have put together eight-game win­ning streaks. 
The Tigers have overcome a flock 
I 
of injuries to players such as infiel­
I 
der Rick Leach, catcher Lance Par­
I 
rish and outfielder Kirk Gibson.
I 
While healing his troops, Manager
I 
Sparky Anderson has done a fine job
I 
ofjuggling. Shortstop Alan Trammell
I is the only Tiger who has played
I every game at the same position, while Anderson has used seven DH's, five right fielders and four dif­ferent players at third base and ..:en­

r~-~-------------,---------1
:~" ~REAT wAlltHAPPYMOTHER'SDAY! I 
_Chmese_ ~t An_:~_~~~.n Restaurant t we have a $5 giftforevery t t ! <;oc~ta!I_Lounge ca;.;;;ourAuaiiDble t motherwh,ocomestodinnertt Happy Hour 5:00-7:00 pm Mon.-Sat. t on Mothers Day. t 
t t CONGRATULATIONS t
Banquet rooms auailoble, Banquet & group rates available 
t Best Chinese SAm-:~rican food i~ Townt SENIORS! t 
t *Reasonably Pr~ced SHospttable t $5 gitt tor every senior who t t FEATURING: , comes to dinner during May. 
t MOOSHI PORK ................................$4.95 HOURS. t



-.--------:-t 
t Mon.-Thurs.: 11:30o.m.-io:00p.m
. t SWEET & SOUR PORK ..... ,,,,, ...... ,,,,,,$4.95 
Fri.&Sot.......J 130o.m.-11 OOp.m. -: 
t BEEF CHOP SUEY.............................$3.75 t 
t EGG FOO YOUNG ............................$3.75 3 t 
& . 
i-;._,
130 Dixie HWY.South 

' PORK FRIED RICE ............................ $3.50 
South Bend ~ Roseland
f BEEF LIVER w/ONION.......................$2.50 nexttaRandau'slnr~ =t t 
L~~!_R~~~~~~~~::.·::·::·!~'!...--~_l);:1E.?AJ 
( 1980) as the only fillies to win the Derby. 
Real Dare, who was purchased by owner ).E. Jumonville fo S750,000, will try to become the eighth gel­ding to win the Derby and the first since Clyde VanDusen in 1929. Real Dare will break from the No.l2 post. 
The three early favorites for what has to be considered a wide-open race are El Baba, winner of eight of 10 career stats, at 5-2 from the No.4 post; Air Forbes Won, unraced as a 2-year-old but unbeaten in four races this year, at 7-2 in No.7, and 
Muttering, the Santa Anita Derby 
winner, at 4-1 in No.ll. 
Also entered were Bold Style, 15­1, No.2;, New Discovery, 8-1, No.3; Royal Roberto, 20-1, No.5; Wavering Monarch, 15-1, No.6; Laser Light, 30­1, No.8; Music Leader, 8-1, No.9; Reinvested, 8-1, No.1 0; Rock Steady, 
NEWYORK(AP)-Elmer Ripley, a member of the Basketball Hall of Fame, a coach with the Harlem Globetrotters and coach at several colleges, including Notre Dame and Army, died Thursday. He was 89. 
A spokeswoman at Doctor's Hospital in Staten Island said that Ripley entered the hospital Wednes­day night. His death was attributed to natural causes. 
Ripley is one of three Hall of Famers older than the game of bas­ketball, which was invented in December 1891. The others are Maurice Podoloff and Max Fried­man. 
Ripley coached the Fighting Irish for just one season, the 1945-46 campaign, and led the team to a 17-4 record. He was succeeded in the job by Edward "Moose" Krause. 
Ripley was inducted into the Hall ofFame at Springfield, Mass., in 1972 for outstanding contributions to the 
J 
game. 
Ripley turned pro in 1909 after graduating from high school. He played with several pro teams, in Brooklyn (N.Y.), Hoboken (N.J.), Wilkes-Barre (Pa. ), Paterson ( N .). ), Scranton (Pa. ), Coatesville ( Pa. ), Al­bany (N.Y.), Elizabeth (N.J.), New York, Washington and Cleveland. He also was player-coach at Scranton and played for the original Celtics in 
1923. 
Later, he coached collegiately for 

26 years. In addition to Notre Dame 
and Army, he coached at Yale, 
Georgetown (D.C.), and Columbia. 
After that, he coached the Globetrotters for three years and coached the 1956 Israel Olympic team and the 1960 Canada Olympic team. 
He is survived by two nieces, Mrs. Elizabeth Garnett, with whom he lived in Staten Island, and Virginia Fieldman ofJonesboro, Maine. 
8-1, No.13; Water Bank, 20-1, No.14; Rockwall, 30-1, No.l5; Wolfie's Ras­cal, 8-1, No.l6; Star Gallant, 8-1, No.17; Gato del Sol, 10-1, No.l9, and Majesty's Prince, 8-1, No.20. 
The added-money for the 108th Derby at Churchill Downs was in­creased from $200,000 to 11250,000, the entry fee was boosted from 54,000 to 115,000 and the starting tab was increased from S3,500 to $5,000. 
So, if 20 horses start -the filly will carry 121 pounds and the others 
126 each  - the  purse  will  be  
.11527,600,  with  11422,600  to  the  
winner.  

The past records were a gross of 11413,415 and a winner's share of 5317,200, set last year when there were 21 starters. 
Post time is 4:38 p.m. EST, with ABC (WSJV TV-28) to televise from 3:30p.m. to 5 p.m. 
Orioles ftrst baseman' had an 18­game hitting streak -including the final four games of 1981 -snapped on Wednesday night in the first game of a doubleheader. He hit home run No. 5 in the second game and now is hitting .468 with 16 RBI. New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner kept t alive a streak of sorts as the team changed managers for the eighth time in nine years. 
ByJOHN NELSON 
AP Sports Writer 
The 1982 major league baseball season is only four weeks old, and already it has distinguished itself as a season ofstreaks. 
The Atlanta Braves won their first 13 games, then lost five in a row. New Manager Joe Torre's players credited him for much of their success when they were winning, so 

ter field. The Baltimore Orioles lost nine in a row as their pitchers struggled. Dennis Martinez, 2-2, and Scott McGregor, 1-2, are the only starters with victories. Martinez, McGregor, Mike Flanagan and Jim Palmer have seven losses among them, and Steve Stone is on the disabled list. Eddie Murray has been without 
fault, though. The switch-hitting 

IheJJ~rver=====================================



Weekend 
J>JON, GOOP LUCJ< 
IN HEP 5c.HoOL. 
;:J/H, r; ;JUST WANrTil S4Y /IIAT Fo~ A HE'"IIJ~R; OF 77-lc /..l>WE~ CLAS"S£.5 YoJF:E 
0.1<! DoN'f'i"OU~H ME 

I)_Qonesbury Garry Trude@ 





YOIJ KNJaJ. lHI$

stRrAR£ 
HA5 GOT 7lJ 8C 

yO() IN 
ONUJFTH£

HER£? 
OAYS 01' MY lift 

The Daily Crossword 

Simon 
'5YE ~ 
TAKE 
II 
£A::oY 
:'>11"/0~ GOOP~YE 
I'LOWE'R. GOODBYE

~ l)URT. 
;j. I 
lOOK LARRY... WE.L:ON'T IT':> TALK TO THfiT MIGE! 
ACROSS 30 Hemingway 1 Cuts the cha~acter lawn 34 Roman poet 5 Mo~pheus' 35 Persian 
realm 37 Equal: pref. 10 Cotton unit 38 Toper 14 Baneful 39 Oval 15 Salk's 41 Lawyer: 
conquest abbr. 16 Wife of 42 RSVP word 
Geraint 43 Romero of 17 A medium films 19 Raison d'-44 Friend, 20 Make In Amiens 
beloved 45 Channel 21 Visionary swimmer 23 Pope's of 1926 
crown 47 A Johnson 
26 Corrlda 50 Hem's encourage· partner ment 51 Finger 
27 Kneecaps paint 
Thursday's Solution 
-· ~­


Jeb Cashin 
~ 
'i:JEE G<XltilY£., " 
~0\l 511110r'l.
RRct\t>JO, \ fiRE.­fl(j(,-1 
\ 

. 
,. 
~ 

h 
~ 


(~--r·1 WH~T!?! 
52 Strive for 56 Nets 60 Important 
part 61 Hunt down 64 Gaelic 65 Defied 66 Snick's 
associate 67 Polka­68 Gin 69 Sleep 
fitfully 
DOWN 1 Distribute 2 Hotroom 3 Feral 4 Showered 
frozen rain 5 Well·thrown 
pass 6-Alamos 7 Whitney 8 Vowel 
sequence 
9 Portable floats 10 Sounded 
a horn 11 Opposed 12 Italian 
cqln 13 First place 18 Lower in submission 22 Stan's friend 24 Marsh birds 

25 Antennas 
27 Groupof Wyatt's boys 
28 Keepaway 
from 29 Appellation 31 Southern 
resort 32 Up and 
about 33 Remarkable 36 Baby In­
(Hyde Park 
sight) 39 Splendor 40 Sheltered 
positions 44 Side by side 46 Scholarship 
at Oxford 48 Decipher 49 Eastern 
university 52 Arctic 
taxi 53 Great man 54 Tobacco 
kiln 55 Malay title 57 River of 
Italy 58 Hwys. 59"-the 
sweetheart 
of..." 62 FOR 63 Thrice, 
in music 
Friday; April 30, 1982 -page 19 
Campus 
Friday, Aprll30 
•9 
a.m. -Art Exhibit, Facutly/Student Art Ex· hibit, Moreau Gallery, 

•12:15 
p.m. -Lecture, "Nostromo: Our Man, His-story?", Judy Zaccaria, Library Lounge, Sponsored by Graduate Student Advisory Commit· tee, 

•12:
15 p.m. -Lecture, "From Protein to Polmor· phism to DNA Sequences, Or How Much Genetic Variation is There" Dr. Francisco). Ayala, Galvin Life Science Auditorium, Sponsored by Biology Department, 

•1:15 
p.m., and 2:20p.m.-Lecture, "Required Professional and Personal Qualities ofthe Account· ing and Legal Professions" M. Mendel Piser, Hayes· Healy Auditorium, Open to the public 

•4:30 
p.m. Mathematics CoUoqulum, "Embedding Theorems", Prof. Michael Markowitz, 226CCMB, 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -FUm, "Stripes", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union, Cost 


SI.OO 

•7:30 
p.m -Friday Night FUm Series, "Tree of the Wooden Clogs", Annenburg Auditorium, Sponsored by COTH, SI.OO 

•8 
p.m.-Concert, Notre Dame jazz Band, Wash· ington·Hall, 

•8:15 
p.m. -Student Recital, Kathy Kohn, and 


Michael Yasenchak, Library Auditorium, Saturday, May 1 
•10:00 
am. -Track, Midwest Catholic Cham· pionships, Alumni Field, 

•1 
0:30 a.m. -Senior Picnic, Stephen Center, Sponsored by Alumni Board and Senate, 

•11:30 
a.m.-Baseball, ND vs. Wright State, Jake Kline Field, 

•1 
p.m. -Football, Blue-Gold Game, Stadium, Advance tickets $2. 50, and S3. 50 day of the game 

•3 
p.m. -Lacrosse, ND vs. Michigan State Univ., Alumni Field, 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -FUm, "Stripes", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union, Sl.OO 

•8:15 
p.m -Concert, Notre Dame Orchestra 


Concert, Little Theatre, SMC, Sunday, May 2 
•9 
a.m. -Mass, Rev. George Wiskirchen, CSC, Sacred Heart Church, 

•10:30 
a.m., and 12:15 p.m -Mass, Rev. David Schlaver, CSC, Sacred Heart Church,


·­

•1 
p.m. -Puppet Show, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Ladies ofNotre Dame, 

•8 
p.m. -Concert, Spring Chorale Concert, Little Theatre, Sponsored by SMC Music Department, 

•8: 
15 p.m. -Organ Recital, Robert Frazier, Sacred Heart Church, 


T.V. Tonight 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8:00p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
10:00 p;m. 
10:30 p.m. 
11:00 a.m. 
11:30 p.m. 

16 Joke Book 22 Dukes of Hazzard 
28  Benson  
34  Channel  34  Auction  "Up,  Up  and  
Away"  

16 ChicaKo Story 
28 MaKKie 
22 Dallas 

28 ABC Movie Special "The One and On· ly" 
16 McCiains Law 
22 Nurse 

16 NewsCenter I 6 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 2B 
16 ToniKht Show 
22 NBA nasketball 
28 ABC News NiKhtline 
28 Saturday Night Live 
16 SCTV Comedy Network 
··4······~~······~···4·······~···4·······~····4······~~······­
: Do you like to DANCE? : Do you want to GO OUT : with that specialpetson? : Do want to GO CRAZY 
• befote finals?
•• Do you want to end the yeat : with a BANG?
•
• If so, GET READY fot the GO CRAZY DANCEiFtlday Aptll30th 9:30-1:00 In the Chautauqua Balltoom 

• 

atSENIOR BAR! 
Tonight enjoy out Bacatdi and Coke special! We will be open fot the BLUE­GOLD game. 
Sat. nite special: ffiyet's Rum and pineapplejulceol 
J 

,---~ 
Friday, April 30, 1982 -page 20 
Irish lacrossers reach title game 
By MIKE SULLIVAN end of the first quarter, the gap was Sports Writer widened to 6-0. It looked like Notre Dame might bury Ohio State. 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team is The Buckeyes had different officially in the Midwest Lacrosse As­thoughts. After the Irish opened the sociation championship game. second quarter with a goal to make it 
On Wednesday, the Irish un­7-0, Ohio State fought back, scoring leashed a powerful offense and five goals in the quarter. The Irish routed visiting Ohio State, 2I-I3. also scored five and, at the end ofthe The victory ensured the Irish first half, still held a comfortable II-5 place in their division and a rematch lead. with Denison, winner of the other The second half started with the division. Buckeyes taking the play to the Irish. 
If there were any doubts that the They closed the gap to five and Irish did not want to win this game seemed to have solved the Irish of­badly, they were dispelled in the fense. The wide halftime lead had a first few moments of the first quar­lot to do with the Ohio State surge. ter. Twenty-three seconds into the "We let up a little," said Irish game, Mike Quinn took a pass from Coach Rich O'Leary, "and they were Steve Linehan and fired a shot past trying to get back in the game. I was the Ohio State goalkeeper for a afraid we might lose it there." quick I-0 Irish lead. His team showed a lot of guts,

._,. 
Irish quarterbacks Blair Kiel, Ken Karcher and Gold intrasquad scrimmage. ESPN will tape the 
They didn't stop there, however. though, and the end never really was
jim O'Hara will each get a chance to lead Notre game for a later broadcast. (Photos by Cheryl Er­

Linehan, Steve Pearsall and Mark in doubt. The score widened to I 5-8 
Dame's offense tomorrow in the annual Blue-te/t) 

Farino scored quickly, and by the by the end off the third quarter and never was closer than six thereafter. The leading scorer for the Irish, Linehan, led the offensive attack with three goals and three assists. Bill Bonde had four goals and an as­
Quarterbacks remain Faust's top priority 
sist, while Farino added two goals and helped out on three others. Quinn, Pearsall, Dan Pace, Jerry
By KELLY SULLIVAN workouts began, "so we have one work with. been at this level ofcoaching for 12 Levesque, Kevin Rooney, Tracy Cot­
Sports Writer clear-cut choice and there's no ques­"It's not really a style or years. Now I'm just trying to bring it ter, Brian McKeon and Dave Lewis
tion about it. That's something we philosophy I brought with me from all together here." 
also helped out in the scoring
Gerry Faust is the first to admit his couldn't do a year ago." UCLA," explains Ron Hudson, in What Hudson has brought in is a mistakes. And correcting one that But things in the Notre Dame charge of the Irish signal callers system that dictates more drop back parade. Rob Simpson and Pat Poletti combined for 23 saves in the goal.
turned out to a big problem last quarterback camp have changed following three years as offensive passing and half-rolls. "We're going "The guys played an outstanding
season -rotating two quarterbacks from a year ago. For one thing, coordinator with the Bruins. to sprint our quarterbacks out a little -has been high on his list of there's one less contender for the "Most of my backround comes more so they can see a little better game," said O'Leary. "The midfiel­ders were very aggressive on both
priorities this spring. No. I spot. For another, there's a from things I learned from Mike and receive more protection as ends of the field, but probably the"We want to really try and estab­new quarterback coach. Also, White (Illinois) and Bill Walsh (San well." 
lish our one quarterback going into Hudson admits that junior Blair biggest factor was the excellent play
· there's a new passing system on of­Francisco '49ers). You pick up a ft:w the fall," Faust stated before fense, a new style for the players to things from all over when you've Kiel is the leading candidate at this of the defense." point in the race. "He's improving all 
O'Leary also singled out the play 
====~--===========-=----------­

of junior defenseman Sean Corscad­for NDsenior improving in order to keep the job," the time, but he has to continue 
den who shut down Ohio State's explains his coach. 
best attackman, repeatedly taking Kiel split time at the helm with 
the ball right away from him. He also Tim Koegel early last season before 
pointed out the hustling of senior
Dreatns cotne true ·with BoldStyle 
midfielder Mark Farino. Columbus, Ind., native finished the taking over permanently. The 

The win leaves the Irish with a 4-I 
It's the chance ofa lifetime 

record in their division, 6-3 inyear 67-of-I51 for 936 yards and
In a lifetime ofchance... 

league play, and 8-S overall. 
seven touchdowns. Hudson has seen 
...The Run for the Roses 
The last regular season game isfilms of Kiel from last season, but

Dan Fogelberg 

tomorrow against Michigan State in the stadium immediately following says he really can't gauge his 
progress from '81 because of theTomorrow afternoon, while most students are sitting the Blue-Gold game. O'Leary isnew offense.
in the sun, or watching the Blue-Gold game, Lisa Con­confident that his team will not let"The system is so much different way, a Notre Dame senior, will be at Churchill Downs. 

down because it knows how impor­thari last year. Notre Dame didn'tLisa's horse is entered in the 1OHth running of the Hostage was the horse that won the most prestigious tant it is to have momentum goingreally run a drop back. Blair was tur­Kentucky Derby. race of Bold Style's career thus far. In the Arkansas into the championship game.
ning his back to the secondary a lotThe Derby. Just the name conjures up images from Derby a few weeks ago, the horse came out ofnowhere last season. But now that the system STICK CHECKS -Injuries are images ofCitation, Secretariat and Affirmed· to upset Bold Style and the present Derby favorite, El
the past -is different, people are going to per­beginning to wreck havoc on the 
of Shoemaker and Arcaro. And for those who grow u~ Baba. 

squad. Attackman Mike Lynch is out and live with horses and horse people, it's the ultimate "We had wanted to lay back in about fourth place and form differently as well, so I can't for the rest of the year with torn liga­reaHy say just how much he's im­dream. make our move in the stretch," she said, explaining her ments in his ankle. Another attack­proved."
It really isn't fair to call Bold Style Lisa's horse. The horses eventual third-place finish. "But we were in th1e man, Jerry Levesque, also is out forKiel is fundamently sound, saysstakes winner actually belongs to a Mr. Len Mayer. But inside post position and no one moved out to take the the remaining games because ofHudson, and he seems to behe was bred and raised on the Conways' Bold Meadow lead. We were stuck with it. 

back spasms. Midfielder Kevineliminating the errors that plaguedFarm in Versailles, Kentucky, and for a family that's been "They ran very slow fractions, and the other two Smith, who has been plagued thishim in the fall -he's cut down onin the horse business for over 1 S years, that's good horses were still fresh by the stretch. But we were corn­his interceptions and is finding his year by a separated shoulder, is a enough. ing on, too." 
slim possibility for the title match.
secondary receivers better this"Mr. Mayer's been great about giving us credit for this The greater race, and by far the bigger surprise, carne The championship tentatively isspring.
horse," said Lisa before leaving for Louisville yesterday. with another Bold Meadow horse last week. 

scheduled for Sunday, May 9 on Car­"He and my Dad have been friends for a long time, and Listzcapade, a three-year old not eligible for tomor­tier Field. Posters with the ex?.ct
we've had all of his horses. But this is the first time row's race, upset El Baba and Star Gallant in the Derby Spring Football '82 
time and date will be p~sted next 
either of us have had a horse in the Derby." Trialls. 

week. 
The Conways' breed horses, raise them, and sell them "The horse had a slight hairline fracture of the shin "Blair feels more comfortableas yearlings. It's a profitable business -if a man knows earlier, and we laid him off for a while. He really wasn't with this system, but it demands ahow to do it right. You have to be lucky. ready for the Derby. But we'll enter him in the Belmont great deal mentally. A lot of that"Bold Style is out of a real cheap mare," Lisa for sure." 

mental ability comes from ex­confessed. "And I mean a real cheap claim mare. But Ironically, the two most successful horses in the his­perience with the system, and heshe's produced some great horses anyway. tory of the farm -which houses I00-12S horses a year just doesn't have it right now ­''I'm really happy for my dad, he's worked so hard at -grew up together. 
none ofour quarterbacks do."
this: He's the kind ofguy who still gets up every morn­"When you wean a horse, you put it with a buddy to Sophomore Ken Karcher anding at 5:30 to be out on the t farm. let it get used to being away from it's mother. Bold Style senior Jim O'Hara are Kiel's closest"He's getting a good reputation for turning out good and Listzcapade were buddies." 

competition. The two are runningrunners, and he deserves it. He always said he'd rather Lisa admits that Bold Style will be "doing real well" to neck-and-neck with the secondbe known for raising a running horse as opposed to for run second or third. But she's not discounting his team.
selling an expensive horse." chances completely. 

"They're close to each other, andThe hard work obviously has paid off. Bold Style is "I'll be there in the winners' circle ifeverything goes they're both close to Blair, too,"currently a 10-I shot, but with the scratching of right. I've already asked Mr. Mayer, and if the hors<: Hudson admits.
favorites Timely Writer and Hostage, Lisa thinks those wins, he's going to let me have two roses from the Karcher, a Parade All-Americanodds should drop. blanket. 

from ·Glenshaw, Pa., saw action in"He'll probably go off at seven-or eight-to-one," she "That's a dream I've always had -just to see that four games as a rookie. Hudsonsaid. "After I heard that Timely Writer and Hostage blanket. It's hard to believe we could actually be there." 
praised his intelligence, but said that
were out, I told my Dad they were paving the way to the It's good to know that, despite all that is wrong in the winner's circle for us." world today, dreams can still come true. See QBs, page 17 
INSIDE: 
Derby-p.l8 Streaks-. p. 18 Ripley -p.l8 
NBA-p.l7 
Sportsboard­p.l6 

.~-·¥..'55!1£.._; .c. ;:a:;·.· 11VPW'J4 






