----~-~-~~------­
----y
r-----------~--~~-----------------------------~-~------·---------~~---------~­
~· 
, , .Hockey special-page 10 4 ' 
f 



By RYAN VER BERKMOES thing. "Masters ofScience think they tlrst seagoing nuclear powerplant. .'Jmwging Editor know a lot, and as for Ph. D.'s, God which power atomic submarines. I ' help us." He asked all those in the "In 1950, all the subs were diesel, 
l f 
"The amount of technology you room with doctorates to raise their 
they could only stay submerged for a can learn at Notre Dame you can tit hands. When about one half the 
few hours. Atomic subs can stay sub­into a thimble, maybe two," said audience complied, Rickover merged for days. •Iretired Admiral Hyman Rickover responded, "If I had known what 
"The best part about the project yesterday. kind of house this was, I wouldn't 
was I got the AEC to pay lor all the I Speaking to about thirty people in have come." development. Then when I was suc­io the Center for Continuing Educa-Rickover urged undergraduates 
cessful, I signed an order transfer­I tion, Rickover touched on a number not to specialize in any one techni­
ring all S100 million dollars worth of of topics during a talk entitled "The cal major, but instead concentrate 
equipment to me in the Navy," said Development of the Nuclear Sub-on the humanities. "I've accepted Rickover. marine." theology majors into my nuclear 
Commenting on his drive for per­Rickover, who has received training schools," he said. 
...' 

fection, Rickover said, "To me the ef­several honorary degrees including Rickover join·ed the Atomic ficiency of the project was a docto~ate rrom Notre Dame in Energy Commission ( AEC) in 19-!9. 
everything. I had the romanticism of 1974. claimed that titles mean no-He supervised construction of the a chipmunk." Rickover blames civiliaus for the had publicity nuclear power has received. "The problems at Three
Reagan announces 
.\1ile Island were that there was no proper supervision. I don't have any problems with nuclear power, you
relieffor farmers 
damn civilians do." House Republican Leader Robert H. "I took responsibility tor my ac­
PEORIA, lL (AP) -President Michel of Peoria, the president again tions. The rest of the military is like 
Reagan, campaigning across 
blamed past Democratic administra­politics, Reagan blames Carter, the
President Ronald Reagan reaches to shake hands with Fred economically distressed sections of 
tions for the nation's economic next guy, provided he is a Democrat,
Napolitino, President of the National Association ofHome Buil­the Midwest, delivered some pre­
will blame Reagan," added Rickover.
woes.
ders, Tuesday in the White house after he had signed a procla_ma­election help to farmers yesterday 
"Our nation is still paying the Rickover was born in Poland intion for National Housing Week Reagan faced a more difficult and subsequently declared, "I didn't 1900. He joined the Navy in 191 7.
penalty of those tragic excesses ofsituation yesterday during a campaign swing through the cause this recession." 
the past," he said. "Unfortunately, He attended the Naval Academy in 
economically hard-hit Midwest. ( AP Photo) At an appearance on behalf of 
Annapolis from which he graduated Reagan also referred directly to in I922. He spent most of World his actions to prohibit sales of 
many are paying with their jobs." 
War II in Hawaii. He saw combat
Electronic eyes 
American products used in con­duty in the closing days ofthe war in struction of a Soviet natural gas 19-!5. He constructt:d a naval repair pipeline into Europe -a decision 
base on Okinawa, which was wiped
Surveillance system use increases 
out hy a hurricane shortly after i'See REAGAN, page 4 
I

completion. 
•I
By RICK HAMPSON 
:·:
"With a well-equipped surveillance outtlt you can
Associated Press 
watch people pretty closely," he says. "If somebody's ' ;· been doing something funny, it's probably going to beIf you have waited for a Manhattan subway train, 
Priest dispels mythical
seen bv the trained eve."
walked down a Miami Beach street or bought Extra­I 
Deaiers say their devices are moving beyond banksStrength Tylenol in a Chicago drug ~tore, yours may be and stores and into some unusual locations: ,,
among the million images on t1le in the monitored L ' 
• A house on the intercoastal waterway in florida has 
interpretations ofgrace' 
l'
society. .
underwater cameras to guard against aquatic intruders.
The kind of automatic camera that photographed 
•A midwestern pig farmer uses cameras to make sure By PAM RICHARDSON and giving man God's own life. God ii
cyanide poisoning victim Paula Prince, and may also his animals, who are packed tightly together as <hey fat­even goes so far as to give man a gift, I'
.'lieu-s Staff
have caught the image ofJames Lewis, a prime suspect ten up, do not trample each other. accordng to Lahey, and that gift isin the seven Tylenol killings, is an increasingly popular 
•New York City has cameras in several subway sta­grace.
surveillance tool. The word grace "connotes some tions and is installing more at crimeridden Times Lahey commented that many in I
type of medieval magic" to many.Square stations. Father John Lahey tried to correct today's society believe they receive l By design and by chance, Americans are being j' 
watched in stores and factories. jails and hospitals, bar­•cameras scan the First National Bank of Chicago's grace hy doing good work in their
this statement last night in a lecture public plaza in the Loop. sponsored hy the Thomas More own lives. He said "man in his nature i i· er rooms. Long a THURSDAY;i[tt~l~tlli]j •On Wall Street, cameras monit0r areas where nego-still has an openness to the grace of I 
nyards and lock-
fixture in banks, .Society entitled "Grace: Medieval tiable securities are handled and traded. .\1i God and has within him or her the !:
Magic."certit1cates worth about S I million were located in a capacity to do God's work."
following FatherJohn A. Hardon's i~
~;~~:~i:~I 'iE ~~~~~~~:~:;~:~~~:::i:~::::;::::::::~:F 0 CUS 
discarded box after a review of video tape showed the Lahey stated what the actual grace
hook, "The Catholic Catechism," " terns now reach Lahey stressed that grace is not a su­
box was out of place. teaching says "God desires every 
•Cameras allow otlcials in several cities to keep an
from embassies to department store mannequins. perstition, hut rather a gift of God human person to he saved." In the 
eye out for highway traftlc jams and accidents. same manner he stated that "the call
that says something about dignity.
Sales by the industrY. now about S500 million a year. 
•Fears ofstreet crime in .\1iami Beach led authorities ofGod is universal."
"When we feel we are in need of 
6
are expected to nearly double by the end of I9H-t, 
to install cameras that monitor a shopping area. . 
some ofGod's grace, prayer is a goodaccording to Kathy Sowder of ADT security Systems. 
Part of surveillance systems' popularity is at­way to achieve it." rDemand for surveillance systems has "exploded," she tributable to reusable video tape, which is eas_ier to use Lahey commented that "grace is asays, because "peopk are having money problems," and and less expensive than 111m, although the picture is not 
sublime topic." He gave an as clear. 
stealir:g to solve them. as ex­
about S500 million a year, are expected to nearly ample a person praying hard in or­
Most cameras are cheaper than guards, and they don't
double bv the end of I9H-!, according to Kathy Sowder der to receive something he wants. 
fall asleep or go out to the bathroom, salesmen say.
of ADT s~curity System~. Demand for surveillance sys­Lahey called this a great distortion, 
Svstems now cost as little as several hundred dollars
tems has "exploded." she says, because "people are describing the doctrine of grace as 
or ~s much as 550,000. A good bank system goes for
having money problems." and stealing to solve them. actually a "divinization of the Chris­
S6,000 to S10,000.

"It seem .s wherever you look you've got a TV camera tian -God's own free sharing of his 
Many systems are activated only hy a particular
staring down at your face," says Jack Greenfield, :\Is. life with Christians." 
event: the camera at Walgreen's that photographed
Sowder's colleague at ADT. This is the way, Lahey believes, 
'

Miss Prince buying the cyanide-laced Extra-Strength
In the next few years, cameras attached to recorders that (;od comes to live in each man. 
Tvlenol that killed her was linked to a Northern Trust
or monitored hv human eves will scan homes, stores In an attempt to make a distinc­
B~nk automatic teller which clicked when a customer
and public plac~s. "where,:er people expect vandalism tion between grace and nature, he 
used a hank card to begin a transaction. The camera
or theft," says :\b. Sowder. said that "a natural person can he focused on the area in front of the hank machine, hut
Properly· used, a television camera might have nderstood without grace. Grace 
took in the checkout line as well.
prevented the Tylenol killings, according to Bill Rudd._ builds on nature." vice presidt·nt of DA general in :-.Ieedham, .\lass., one ot Lahey went on to explain that God
See CAMERA, page 3 
the nation's top makers ofsurveillance cameras. was very gracious in creating man, 

_____ _______,.

-----~--------------------~----­
~~---~-­
--~--~------~ 
~: i 
t 
.. l 
.. 
... 
~ 

q 
: j 
1News Brie/§ 
BY Thl.' Ohsen'l.'r and The Associated Press 
Ronald R. Parent, the late editor of Notre Dame Magazine, will be memorialized by a national award for improve­ment in periodicals publishing to be established by the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education (CASE). CASE, for whom Parent was a trustee and in whose institutes and workshops he taught, will also dedicate next june's Sibley Conference for editors to Parent, who was scheduled to be its chairman. A victim of leukemia, Parent died August 21. In the dozen years he edited Notre Dame's alumni magazine, the publication was twice chosen No. I in the nation and finished consistently in the top 10. -The Observer 
Ecuadoran PresidentOsvaldo Hurtado declared a state ofemergency last night, banning public protests on the eve ofa na tionwide strike called by the left-leaning United Federation of Workers. The move, announced from the capital city Quito, came after three days ofdemonstrations, bus burnings and an attempt to march on the presidential palace -the most serious unrest since Hurtado took office two years ago. Minor street demonstrations were reported near the presidential palace a few hours after the announcement. Police took up positions outside the palace and other public buildings, and soldiers were posted outside public utilities and communications installations. "Today the country is in a stae of economic war," Hurtado said in announcing the state of emergency on national radio and television. He said the decree was necessary because of attacks on public and private transport and "against authorities oflegislative power." -AP 
Professor George Stigler of the University of 
Chicago won the Nobel Memorial Award in Economic Science yes· terday for pioneering research that included studies ofthe impact of government regulation on the economy. It was the IIth time that an American has won the prize, which this year carries a stipend of S 15 7,000. Stigler was the second American to win a Nobel prize this year. Professor Kenneth G. Wilson of Cornell University won the prize in physics Monday. The literature prize is to be announced today. The Swedish Academy of Sciences, in giving the award to Stigler, cited the 71-year-old economist for "his seminal studies of industrial structures, functioning of markets and causes and effects of public regulations." -AP 
A Huntington, W.Va. judge dropped charges 
yesterday against a 5 year-old boy accused by school officials of disrupting his kindergarten class, but ordered a Welfare Department hearing to determine "what to do with the child." In the meantime, Circuit judge D. B. Daugherty ordered the child be accompanied by an adult ifhe returns to school. The young defendant, Julius, napped through the closed-door hearing. The boy's defense lawyer and his mother, Lea ). Turner, had both protested the filing of juvenile charges by Elmer Hayes, principal of the Spring Hill Elementary School. Mrs. Turner said her son was a "perfectly normal" little boy who was just fidgety. Hayes said he filed a petition accusing)ulius of being incorrigible, a "status offense" under state law, because the parents failed to respond to repeated complaints about his class­room behavior. Daugherty said after the hearing that he dropped the charges "because he Oulius) was too young to know what he was doing. -AP 
Top leaders of the United Auto Workers met behind closed doors yesterday, one day before the union decides whether to call a strike against Chrysler Corp. for refusing an immediate wage increase. UAW president Douglas A. Fraser and Marc Stepp, lJAW vice president in charge of the union's Chrysler department, met with the 10-member bargafning committee. Fraser said no an­nouncement would be made before a meeting today of the UAW's !50-member Chrvsler council. "The union is in the throes of decision-making. We're trying to decide what's the next course of action," UAW spokesman David Mitchell said before the union ses­sion broke up. -AP 
The Interstate Commerce Commis­
sioncleared the way yesterday for the merger of three railroads into a new line covering 22,800 miles of track and becoming the nation's second largest in revenue. The ICC's final action approves the merger ofthe Union Pacific, Missouri Pacific and Western Pacific railroads into a single line that will serve .21 states from the Puget Sound to the GulfCoast. The ICC, by a 5-1 vote, approved the merger Sept. 13 and released its final documents on the merger from Omaha, Neb. yesterday. The Southern Pacific Railroad, which has fought the merger for two years, has asked the U.S. Court ofAppeals to overturn the ruling, but no decision has been rendered in the railroad's re­quest. The ICC has asked that the appeals be dropped, said Union Pacfic public relations spokesman Ed Trandahl. He said UP expects legal opposition to the merger and "we'll deal wi .th it at that time."­
AP 

The United States will seek to extend a two-year ceiling on Japanese car imports for an additional 12 months to protect the ailing domestic auto industry, the top Amencan tra~e official said yesterday. The U.S. automobile industry, plagued by 1ts lowest sales in two decades, needs more breathing room so that It will not be hurt by imports before the economy improves and sales recover, said U.S. Trade Representative Bill Brock. -AP 
Mostly cloudy and cold today. Highs in the mid 40s. Clearing wnight and cold. Lows around 30. Tomorrow, sunny and cool. Highs in the low to mid 50s. -AP 
Thursday, October 21, 1982 -page 2 
Sauntering • • • 
The other day, while lying around, suffering from one of the apathy attacks that occaionally come over me, I noticed that something has been missing this semester. Namely, the Now and Then newsletters, written by our (Fianner hall's) former rector, Bro. Pete Mahoney, which every now and then would find their way into our mailboxes. 
These imaginative and warm letters, stenciled in Bro's barely intelligible handwriting, conveyed his refreshing outlook on life, calling us to enjoy the world and the people God has put in it. One of Pete's most recurrent themes was the call to examine new perspectives, to look in the corners and maybe see things in a new light. One of Pete's favorite methods for gaining new insight was sauntering. 
Sauntering is quite a ple<~~ant activity, it can put new energy into your approach to life, and is not to hard to learn. Start by emptying your pockets, take nothing with you but your curiosity, an old sweater, and a clear head. Next, start walking, but not at a fast pace. Take your time, don't be in such a hurry. The faster you move, the more you are going to miss. 
Look around you and examine everything you see. If something catches your eye, stop, ask questions, find out what is being said, and move on. Soon you will see a 
world full of fascinating things. a world that you can­not see when caught in a fast-paced race for grades or money. The road you take while sauntering is also important. Stay away from the long, straight pathways. These breed conformity and com­placency, because they al­ways show you wha t t lies ahead. There is no exite· ment in straight paths, they are too safe, they belong to people who are afraid of living. So instead, take win­ding roads. Winding roads bring the promise of new adventures and surprises with every bend. Since you never know what to expect, you must always be more open. Winding roads are for people who believe life is a gift, that should be cherished and enjoyed. When you saunter put a warm smile on your face. Say hello to the people who pass by, and listen to people who stop with something to say; four billion people means tour billion different perspectives. And if someone will give you an ear, share your perspective with him, it is just as good as the next guy's. Just remem· ber to be open. Two days ago, while out sauntering, I noticed that the main quad was dotted with art students. As I walked from one student to another, examining their water­color paintings, I suddenly saw something new. Some· thing countless romps through the main quad had never shown me. There, on the artist's paper, I beheld a beautiful scene ofscarlet leaves and sunshine. I know how easy it is to get bored, to get trapped in the rut of school work and grades. Don't let that he the 


most important thing you do, though. What does any of it mean ifyou have no one who cares, no one to care for~ How can any grade be more important than loving what you do? 
True saunterers refuse to be labeled with a stereotype. They are always seeing things from different perspectives, gaining new knowledge. Therefore, they are ever growing, ever learning more about themselves and those around them. 
Saint Francis must have done considerable saunter­ing in his time, for he understood the miracle in crea· tion. Men like Socrates, Plato, and Sir Issac Newton (who, incidentally, was hit on the head by an apple while sauntering, thus spurring the formulation of the lawsofgravity), all had unique perceptions ofthe world 
around them. These people 
were great, because they 
walked down the side-roads 
everyone else ignored. 
So be an individual, the 
responsibility for your life is 
yours alone. Make sure that 
you fill it with what really 
counts, what makes you a 
better person. Put into your 
life all the beautiful things 
you can find. Color it with 
things that bring joy. 
At the end of The World 
According to Garp, as Garp 
lies dying in his wife's arms 
he says, "I remember every­
thing." For him, everything 
in life had value, had 
purpose. For Garp, life was a 

beautiful happening that should be cherished. 
The next time you catch yourself running through life, stop and take a look around. Slow down and enjoy living. Nothing is that important that it can't Wait. As Bro Pete said in one of his more memorable letters, "Saunter, don't jog-it's easier to smell the flowers." 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views ofthe author, and do not necessarily represent the views ofThe Observeror its editorial board. 
Observer note____-. 
The Observer is always looking for new people. We need people in layout, production, news, sports, etc. Jf you would like to get involved, call 239·'5303. 
The Observer 

IJesiRJI Etlilor... Deirdre "i~ lhi."i ac~rhclic 
creation?'' .\1urphy /Jesign..&ssistant... ..... ScrgcaiH Ct:rahona Layout StafJ ......... Captain (AIwar' hen·) 
lkggie 1)'jJt•sellers . ................. Brucl', Tari, & Tom .\'ews f.'dilor ....... \lark ''Ta~c me horne" 
"'or~cht:h 

Copy /;dilor... ........ Tim \'ercelloti 
8 & f l.ayout.. .. Alex "Cindand shoulda 
won" SziJ\'a!'l Hockey l.a)'OUt . ..................... Ed Konrad)' Sports COjJ)'Editor.. ......... Ri<'h O'Connor Editorials layoul ................... Tim ~t:ely 
1)·pis/.'i ..................................... lkt!'l)" Porter 
Ed 1\.onrac.ly 

Ad /Jesign ..........\larilyn l.ar~in .1:1/C /Jay Editor ...................... Tari Brown .\D 1)(~1' Editor ..... .... l>avt: Grote Photographer... .... Tommy "Th~ St. Louis 
Boy" White -I'll take .\1olson Paul Guest Appearance...·.. ..Soon to be A \'<'01." 
\1onk, The :'><ippk' .\1an. :'><eedlt:S>, 
Where's Cleveland' 

The Observer rUSPS ~':18 \J20r " pubhsned Mund.<y thruugn F"aay ana on horne fu~)fDd.H Sc.11urac1y~ exct?pl d•.mng exarn dna vntdiii.Jn per1ud~ The Observer rs puo~rsnea IJ) tn<· stuaent~ of Notre Oa·nE-nna Sarnt Marys c,,, 
lege Sub~crrptruns ·nay De purcnasea for S25 per yedr tS15 per se'T1e~tef) Oy M•trng The Observer P 0 Bu>. Q Noire Dame InOr ana 460156 
The Observer .,, a ·n<:·nOf·r uf The Associated Press Ar. ri•prdJULIIun rrgnts are reserved 
Second crass p..,stagr· p.r.. 1 .,;: l\lulr<' Da•ne lnarand 4t:JS56 



~~-------~---------~------·---·-·-----­
Thursday, October 21, 1982-page 3
The Observer ~ 
~ 

In Tylenol case 
Suspects sought in New York 
NEW YORK (AP) -Authorities  Co., the manufacturer of Tylenol,  man in Carl Junction, Mo., called the  
said yesterday that James L. Lewis,  demanding s I million to prevent  revenge motive "just a theory," and  
wanted in connection with the  future poisonings. The letter was  the Kansas City pediatric surgeon  
Tylenol killings in Chicago, had  mailed from New York City. He is  who operated on the girl six weeks  
lived with his wife in a cheap Man­ also wanted for questioning in the  before she died discounted the idea.  
hattan hotel for six week!>, including  slayings themselves.  "I think it's far-fetched, incredibly  
the period when seven people died  "We have no evidence that direct­ far-fetched," Dr. Keith Ashcraft, the  
from cyanide-poisoned capsules.  ly connects the Lewises to the  surgeon who operated on Toni  
A special squad of I00 FBI agents  Tylenol murders," Walton em­ Lewis in late 197-i, said yesterday in  
and New York police officers were  phasized. "No evidence. No  an interview in his office. "It's a little  
searching the city in hopes the  .evidence."  bit silly."  
couple might still be there, FBI agent  One motive that has been put for­ He said the Lewises "obviously  
Kenneth Walton told reporters at a  ward for Lewis' possible  loved the child very much and were  
news conference. Walton said Mrs.  involvement was revenge for the  very saddened by the death of their  
Lewis may have a kidney ailment and  death of his 5-year-old daughter,  daughter," but added that they had  
agents were checking New York  Toni, in 1974.  not shown any anger toward him or  
hospitals.  "We do know that he was very up­ anyone else.  
Walton said that Leann Lewis, 35,  set about the death of his daughter,"  Toni suffered from Down's  
had signed the couple into the Rut­ Walton said. "Reportedly on occa­ Syndrome and Ashcraft operated on  
ledge Hotel on Sepr. 6 and wa~ last  sion he carried a recording of her  her for a congenital heart defect  
seen there Ocr. 16. !.:::wis, 56, was  voice that he would play for  common among victims of the  
last seen at the hotel on Oct. I'1.  people."  disease. He said she had run a  
They stayed in Room 200, Walton  When asked whether Lewis  after surgery and that he had  
said, registered under the name of  blamed Johnson & Johnson, which  prescribed aspirin. Ashcraft said he  
Nancy Richardson, an alias Mrs.  owns the maker of Tylenol, for his  did not know if the Lewises had  
Lewis had previously used, with the  daughter's death, Walton said, "I  given her Tylenol instead of aspirin  
Lewises' Illinois addres.;.  have no idea."  or what brand of aspirin they might  
"We think they stayed here," said  A police officer in the Missouri  have used.  
James T. Sullivan, chiefofdetectives.  town where Lewis grew up has said  The girl died six weeks later when  
"We don't think there was traveling  Lewis blamed Johnson & Johnson  a blood vessel ruptured just above  
back and forth. The woman was  for the death. Rut a police-o;nokes­ her heart.  
working regularly during that time  

and her husband was seen with her." 
"He met her at lunch and met her after work and walked her home," Walton added. 
All seven cyanide victims in Chicago swallowed the tainted capsules on Sept. 29. 
Lewis has been charged with at­tempted extortion for writing a let­ter to McNeil Consumer Prodcuts 
PI!!SBUllGB CLUB Fall Break Bus Scheuule Buses will leave from Botre Dame .(Borth Sid'l af CCE)and St. Mary's Holy Cro~~ Friday, October 22 ~ 1982 4:00pm Will arrive in Pittsburgh about 1:30am(Pgh time) 
Buses will return to I'DISMC from Pithb'!!r~h Greyhound Terminal Sunday October 31,1982 1:00pm (Pgh time) Be there 15 minutes before leaving time 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• f! 
1 

• • 'i ' 
: The Martians are coming! : 1
•
!

: WSND ·FM : : presents :
.• ;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:·:·::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;: .• 
i• 'War of the Worlds' !• 
• with Orson Welles • 
: and : :• The Mercury Theatre •: 
: Halloween night llp.m.on 88.9 : • 

1 1 
I 
I 
l w. ~ 
j 
t 
't· 
~ 
., .., 
~ f ~ 

This is a Chicago Tribune artist's rendering of bow Theodore Wilson might look ifbe shtwed, changed hairs~yle, and whether or ~ not he continues to wetlr g1t1sses. Wilson, who is also known as ~ Robert Richardson and fumes Lewis, is currently the ''jJrime t 
f

suspect" in the cyanitle killings of seven Chicago area persons, according to the Illinois Attorney General. (AP Photo) .~: 
\' 

• • .Camera 
continuedfrom page 1 
Other recording systems begin when someone enters the monitored space; still others come with infrared cameras that see in the dark. 
The surveillance frontier is the home, says Carmine Pellosie, vice president of CCS Communication Control here. "You're not talking big money any more, and you're getting a feeling of security," he says. "It's going to get so cheap you'll use a camera instead ofa front doorbell." 
Although the trend toward a monitored society worries civil libertarians, they note that much of the surveillance is in public places. 

COMPATIBLE WITH YOUR PERSONALITY 
* 
Learn the career fields that best suit your J2ersonali!Y_ 

* 
Direct your academic efforts effrciently 

* 
Prepare for the career offering greatest s~lf:9ratificatron 

* 
Avoid time-wasting attempts to become what you are not 

* 
Learn the personali!Y_ traits to work on to achieve your goals By comparing your personality prof1le w1th the personality proftles of thousands of successful men and women 1n a vanety of career ftelds. PERSONAMETRIX can determine the extent to wh1ch your personality IS su1ted for a speofJC career S1mply complete our 60-minute self-administered personaiJty 1nventory 1n the prtvacy of your home and return 1t to us. We Will assess your personal data professJonally and return a comprehens1ve report desmbing your 


personality profile and the extent to wh1ch your profile resembles the pro­flies of those who have ach1eved success 1n career f1elds that Interest you 
Send your name, address and S25.00 Icheck or money order) to: 
PERSONAMETRIX 
9 I 7 I Wilshire Blvd..• Suite 300. Beverly Hills. CA 902 I 0 
l•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••~••••••••••••••••••n•• 
0~~-campus Stub€nts 
OctoBeR BReak StoRac;e 
Wh€R€: St€pan Cmt€~ 
ORopoH: th~us. 10/21/821pm-5pm r~·-10/22/821pm-5pm Pickup: Sun. 10/31/824pm-Spm mon. 11/1/821pm-5pm 
SponsoR€0 BY 0-C CommiSSion 
"f; ti  
~~  
'  
~  
.l! ,  
~  
l ~  ..  
~ ,, ;i. -!! ~ 1: f i 4  ;  
~  

"Someone on a subway platform really has no expectation of privacy,"says New York Civil 
0 IJ c ooc c c c c c c c~ 
Liberties lJnion attorney Richard Emery. 
Meanwhile, -"photographs from 
bit ot love,these systems support evidence in court cases every day," Rudd says. "The surveillance camera picture has become such a tool for law en­

a touch of class, and
forcement it is readily accepted as. substantial evidence. It is now ac­cepted more and more without ex­pert testimony." 
a pinch of tradition 
r------------------,
Special Rates • Sheraton Inn No. (liD-Pitt) $29.95 plus taw 
Up to 4 people/room 
The Student Union Movie Series 
with this coupon 
IS COMING
November 2-9
Sheraton Inn North 
4859 McKJ,~ght Rd. Pitt., ~a.~ -::237 
(412) 355-S 200 
1------------------J 

The Observer Thursday, October 21, 1982 -page 4 

~ 
continuedfrom page 1 

that has added to unemployment in Illinois and elsewhere. 
"I know they are not popular with Peoria or Bob Michel," Reagan said. "But a president sometimes has to make decisions that are painful even to his best friends -it's one of the
• 
toughest parts ofthe job."
.... 

Then the president said, "The sanctions have substantially hurt the Soviet Union and of course they have hurt some of our own com­panies like Caterpillar as well." 
There have been repeated layoffs from the huge Caterpillar Tractor Co. near here, which Michel's 
Rev. fan Paisley, head ofthe Democratic Unionist Party, leaves a Democratic opponent, G. Douglas Belfast polling place yesterday morning during elections for a Stephens, blames on Reaganomics in single-body assembly in Northern Ireland. A policeman stands general and on administration em­guard. ( APPhoto) bargos on the sale of natural gas 
,..'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-''''''''''''''''''''''''''1
i YOUR BSN IS WORTHAN I
i OFFICER'S COMMISSION ~ 
! IN THEARMY. I 
~ Your BSN means you're a professional. In the Army, it also !! means you're an officer. You start as a full-fledged member ofour ; ; medical team. Write: Army Nurse Opportunities, ! ' P.O. Box 7713, Burbank, CA 91510. ; 
~ ARMYNURSECORPS. ~
i BE ALLYOU CAN BE. I 
[ ... ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,1 

INTERESTED IN AN MBA? 
Stella Catanzarite, Assistant Director of Admissions at the Graduate School of Business Administration 
University of Southern California will be on campus at the MBA Day 
November 1, 1982 to talk about programs at the GSBA For schedule and location information, please contact Placement Bureau 
FRIENDS OF HOLY CROSS 

You are invited to join Bishop McManus and the Religious of Holy Cross -­
Sisters, Priests, and Brothers, in a 
joyful celebration of the Beatification 
of Blessed Brother Andre on Saturday, 
October :B. 1982, at 2:30p.m. 

I , 
l ...Reagan 

pipelaying equipment to the Soviet the crowd of farmers was largely
-.. 

in St. Joseph Chapel at the Holy Cross 


The Fusion JazzofJeffLorber 
Brothers' Center on Holy Cross Junior 
featuring Kenny G. 
BLESSED BROTtiER ANDI\E, C.S.C. 
BILBOARD MAGAZINE ~ 17 HIT 
1845 -1937 College Campus, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
OF THENATION 256-1934 120 W. 1\lil'lhawaka A~·e .• Mishawaka 
Union. silent during the president's speech, 
At a 2,000-acre farm owned by the applauding only twice. Illinois agriculture director, the Afterward, Reagan climbed on a president announced a reduction in hig green tractor for a ride across a federal loan rates for farmers and corn field. It was supposed to help 
new credits to spur agricultural ex-illustrate new soil conservation met­ports. hods, but several days of heavy rains Even though the announcements had left the field muddy and ren­
came less than two weeks before the dered the demonstration largely in­Nov. 2 election, White House offi-effective. cials insistt:d they were not political-In the general, openly political ly motivated. pan of his speech, Reagan implored 
Reagan said Farmer Home voters to have the "gumption" to Administration loan rates will be stick with his programs through the reduced to 11.5 percent, from 13.2 5 current hard economic times. percent, and that the government Making a special campaign pitch will make S1 00 million available in for House Minority Leader Bob Mic­credits -at zero interest -to hel of IHinois, the president could promote agricultural exports. hardly have chosen a tougher ter-
The $100 million will he ritory to defend his programs. "blended" with $400 million in~ Unemployment has hit 15.1 per­guaranteed credits already aut-cent in nearby Peoria, Michel's horized at regular commercial rates, home town. and is 12.5 percent he said. statewide. Farmers here, like those 
"With so much on the line in these throughout the Midwest, are strug­dfficuh economic times,'" Reagan gling to cope with rising operating told the farmers, ••t know you need costs and sharply falling prices. more than just a pat on the hack." ··t know you face a real uphill 
Agricuhun: Secretary John Block, hattie here on the farm,"' Reagan said who accompanied Reagan, said the during his campaign appearance at combination of the S I 00 million the farm owned by Larry Werries, credit program and the guaranteed who succeeded Block as head of II· credits will provide money for linois' agriculture department. agricultural exports at four points From the farm. Reagan was to lower than regular commercial travel to a Republican rally in Peoria rates. for appearances with Michel and 11­
He said the program will make linois Republican Gov. Jim American farm products more Thompson. He then was to push on copetitive on world markets by to Omaha, Neb., where he was providing incentives to foreign · spending the night in advance of buyers interested in purchasing U.S. more Midwestern politicking products. Thursday. 
The decrease in FHA loan rates Reagan acknowledged the "high applies mainly to money borrowed unemployment and hardships here for farmers' operating costs. FHA in the counties of rural lllinois" but now provides ahout 12 percent of insisted that "the best farm program the outstanding farm loans. is one that returns prosperity to all 
Although they listened intently, sectors ofour economy'' 
Pittsburgh Club ttign-ut»r. .to~· rou.nd trip bus to Pgh for Pitt-ND gal4t: Eve:;-yone Invited 
Thurs. Oct. 21,1982 LaFortune Little Theatre 7pm Tent:tt:•ve ftChedulP.· "Bus will !ellvP Fri. Nov. S, 
at 4pm :Bo&.; will returr Sun. Nov. 7 at hm Round Tri!) Fa"'e is S45 -PaymP.nt must be paid in FULL at time of the reservation -no refundr. -First comel First s~rv ad Must be at the meeting to sign up. No Exceptions 
llote: If there are not enough people at sign-up no bus will run call Brian at 1743 

WITH THE BAND 
:..-;.." 
.···:·::.:· 

RIDERS ON THE STORM 
~~ W'Vi~7;~i;•ls ~::~:~~~::~::~~:;~ ~ 
FULL EVENING OF DOOR'S MUSIC 
THIS MONDAY OCT. 25th ONE NIGHT ONLY 
) 

---~---~ --~-------­
The Observer Thursday, October 21, 1982-page 5 
Democratic Socialists 
Youth organizer lectures tonight 
By KATHARINE STALTER 
News Staff 
As part of their ongoing effort to educate the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community on democratic socialism, the campus chapter of the Democratic Socialists of America will present a youth organizer of the national group in a lecture this eve­ning. 
Peggy Schantz, of the DSA, will speak on "What Is Democratic Socialism?" tonight at 8 in the Library Auditorium. 
The spread of information on the organization, through lectures such as Schantz's, as well as other ac­tivities, is the primary concern ofthe campus group at present. 
The first obstacle in this process, according to members of the campus organization, is to overcome the general fear of the word "socialism." 
Instead of running counter to democracy, socialism complements democracy, say student members of the organization. 
The DSA claims that the basis for a truly democratic society lies in full worker and community control of all economic decision-making. This goal can be reached by reforms within the American political and economic systems. 
According to DSA member Chris Beem, "We have to work within the Democratic party to instigate struc­tural changes in society. We have a responsibility to understand the problems ofcapitalism, and to make other people aware of these problems." 
Members of the campus DSA branch agree that they are not satisfied with the status quo, and that the group's efforts toward improve­ment must be geared toward the campus atmosphere in terms of what is possible to achieve. 
Student members explain that the organization is committed to the no­tion ofa society oriented toward the needs of people, rather than toward capital. Inherent in their socialist dream, they say, is a vision ofpeople freely and democratically controll­ing their lives and society. 
The DSA makes two proposals, that America's workers, the people who have created this nation's wealth, should be able to share in the wealth, and that people have the opportunity to participate in deci­sions affecting their lives. Today's "crisis of democracy" can be al­leviated only by extending democracy to all realms of society, 
***************** : NEEDA. :: 
~ * 
! BAND? : 
: for parties, weddings, etc. :
*

it it  coil... BANDS  *  
~  ;  UNLIMITED  ~ * 
-tc  ....ln&ApnCJ  
:  233-5727  :  

*****************' 
at 

Collectible Records 
hard to find out of print records 
Lincolnway East and Cedar in Mishawaka 
( 5 blocks east of downtown) 
Tues.-Fri. 5-8 p.m. Sat. 1 0 a.m . to 5 p.m. 
BUY SELL TRADE 
fostering a spirit of popular control 
and a cooperative, rather than com­
petitive, approach to politics, they 
claim. 
The DSA points to several charac­teristics of modern society which they say represent this "crisis". High unemployment, millions subsisting below the poverty level and forced to accept inadequate housing, education, and health care, and the richest one percent of Americans controlling over fifty percent of the nation's wealth. 
DSA projects concentrate on discussing these and other issues. One proposed project is the sponsoring of a referendum for the Kennedy-Hatfield version of the Nuclear Freeze bill, in coalition with other campus political and religious groups. 
A related topic of concern to the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's DSA branch is the resumption of American-Soviet tensions. The group plans to sponsor an educa­tional week, in the hope of raising questions about the reasons for the recurrence of the Cold War, and what can be done to ease East-West tensions. 
The educational week, featuring speakers, films, and discussions, will be patterned after last April's DSA­sponsored El Salvador educational week. The campus DSA branch showed two documentary films on the Saivadoran situation, hosted two guest speakers, and arranged a ses­sion with a representative of the Revolutionary Democratic Front, a Mexico City-based coalition of nine Latin American activist groups. 

Group members stress the impor­tance of their own extensive preparation for the educational weeks. Before the El Salvador week, students spent over two months researching the history, sociology, culture, and politics ofthe country. 
Much of this work is done at the group's weekly meetings, held each Tuesday at 7:30 p.m in 342 O'Shaughnessy. The first hour is spent in discussion ofsocialist texts. The second hour is devoted to to the practical application of those theories. 
Charles Kirkpatrick, who has been active in the ND/SMC branch since it began a year ago, concedes the dif­ficulty of applying abstract theories to real situations of culture and politics in the eighties. 
He feels that democratic socialism has the potential to become a strong agent of reform by encouraging stu­dents to re-think problematic issues. 
"DSA's strength lies in its local chapters. We get no commandments from on high to tell us what to do or think," he said. 
Kirkpatrick noted that, in accor­diance with the DSA's philosophy, the group has no officers. 
..Jl-=:==="Papa & Mama Do The Cooking":====i\ 
Francesco's Famiglia 277-6155 Restaurant 277-6156 
f~aturing 

FOUR SEASONS PIZZA 
The Original Southern Recipe Lasagna, Home-made Spaghetti, All V . . f Sa d · h
Ca . . V . . anetJes o n wtc e5
Ch.ICken cCiaton, ea1parm1g1ana 

(Francesco waschejfor Holy Cross Fathersjor 21yrs.) 
1636 N. Ironwood 
lllp------·'WE DELIVER"~;;;;;;;;;;z~
~===-.Proprietor: Francesco Catanzariti 

Dine among the antiques and enjoy our view of the new downtown! 
Reservations Appreciated 234-9000 Ill South Niles South Bend 
~1~&...-S~~~Bi!ill Mlllfl J IllI 


Tonight is I 
·:=­

Ladies' Night I 
I i\rtin.6 )ri!ilt Jub I 1.Eueruhnllullltlrnme
I 

Tonight after 9pm. 
I 
• 2 for 1 Mixed Drinks *
I 

• 75'" Dornestic Beer (cans) •
I 


I *Artio's 
I 

.,_-----NO Cleveland Rd. 
lfl·'· 

ll.lllimmi!MC:••2M"I.IIIlERMIIUiill!iUill.811fiii.III&~I·&Rlil-·tCRIII.IIIt~!--~~-~-~·~· 

................................. 
~S'llml{Q qjou~ 
:rhemenofSt.Ed'sthank : : the Brothers ofColumba Hall: : for the invitation : : to a buffet supper, given in : : celebration of the feast of St. Edward. : 
: We thank them for the buffet, :
• 
: housing us during the Hall restoration, •: : and for their brotherhood. : 
~•••~••••••••••••••••••••••••••.J 
~reland Program St. Patrick's College ffiAYNOOTH, IRELAND 
Important and required meeting for all interested Carroll Hall ffiadeleva Building St. mary's College Thursday, October21, 1982---:-6:30p.m 


The Observer Thursday, October 21, 1982 -page 6 
YOU'RE WASTING 
YOUR MONEY BUYING 
ANYWHERE 
* ELSE!
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 

PRICES GOOD
* 

* THROUGH SATURDAY,
* 
* 

OCTOBER 23RD, 1982 
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 

549 
LORD CALVERT. 
1099 
"A World of Wine III" 
presented by 
Kings Cellar 
lor the bene!it ol 

The Muscular Dystrophy Association 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 11,1982 S:00-9:30 p.m. at the A.C.C. 
WATCH FOR FURTHER DETAILS/ 
South Bend Ave. Store Only 1621 South Bend Ave. (ND 's closest liquor store) 
SCHENLEY 

RESERVE BLEND 
1.75 LITER 109 
99 750 ML.4 · 


J. ROGET RIUNITE SPUMANTE LAMBRUSCO 

199 
750 ML. 
CHRISTIAN BROTHERS 
•CHARDONNAY 
•CABERNET 
SAUVIGNON 

•CHENIN 
BLANC 


'~Jl'\~,. 799 
~ 

"~\..\) E' . 
1.75 LITER 

***************~ 
BONIFATO 
ITAUAN 
RED & WHITE 
299 
1.5 LITER 

SUNGLO POP 
STILL ONLY 


CHERRY, STRAWBERRY, PUNCH, COLA, ORANGE, ROOT BEER, LEMON-LIME, GRAPE 
PAUL
PETRI 
MASSON·
TABLE WINES


LIGHT WINES 
MR. & MAS. "T" 
BLOODY MARY MIX 
750 ML. 
Business & Technology Thursday, October 21, 1982-page 7 
. -Research Update -_-:~-. 
The Pentagon is now spending s 1 hilli•Hl a , ear tor rtc-.earch contracts on I -~-campu~t·-.. an in<.:rea'c ot ~o pcr­~t:nt 111 jU'-l thn:c yt:ar~. a (.)uakcr pea<.T group ~"Y' Tilt: moJH:: conw., as other aid sources dwindle and repn·.,t·nts ··an .tlarming. grnwing miliLtrit.ation ',f cuupu' n.',l'<trch atTo~s the nauon... tht: :-\mt:ncan Friends Sen iLT Committee rcportt:d \\'nlnt·sday The group ,aid it -.urveyed 2'i0 campuses and tound Pentagon monn general!\ w<:ll au.:t:ptnl. 'opokesman Tom Ctlnrad said th;tt h,· llOid­ing pur.st' 'irings, "tht· Pt'ntagon \'-ill increasingly h.: able to <.all till' ,hoh on l · "· c arnpust:s h) bankrolling proJt'Lt~ with mJiitary po~t·n­tial" -AP 
· treet Update ·· ­
A new wave of buying swept through the swck 
market late \\'nlnesdaY. lifting the Dow Jones industrial avcrag<.' w 
its highest closing levd in almost I 0 \Tars. The DowJones averag• of 
50 big name stocks, up about ~ points going into thl· last hour of 
trading, finbhed with a 20.52-point gain at 1.05'!. 12. That stood as 
the highest dose for the venerable aveqge since it finbhnl at l ,0 556 
on Jan. 12. 19~ 5. The record of I.OS I. -o was reached on Jan. II of 
tha.t n:ar. Volume on the New York Stuck Exchange totaled 9H.68 
milli~n shares, again~! l U0.8S million Tuesday. There were almost 
three stocks. advancing for every one that declined in the overall 
count on the l:lig Board. 
Russians lead U.S. in 'space race' 
ByBOBJOHNSON 
News Staff 
Russia has recently shot past the United States as the leader in space exploration acccrding to the' 'Space Programs Around the World" lecture given by Larry Boyle on Tuesday night. 
Boyle, a member of the Chicago Society for Space Studies, said the Russians have surpassed the U.S. be­cause "they have the political will to do their space program properly." The "U.S. has been drifting" with no apparent goal according to Boyle. 
Publicity surrounding the U.S. space program has given it the ap­pearance of being the number one program. Foreign nations, meanwhile, have spent little on publicity for their space programs, preferring to remain secretive about their developments. 
Russia launches more rockets into space than any other nation, but Boyle noted that "they are using a primitive technology." In the past they have been unable to build engines of the same quality as C.S. engines. 
The Soviet Union has con· centrated irs recent efforts on space stations. Boyle said that "they (Russia) took a very critical step to larger space stations in 1981 ·· These new stationscan carry up to tlve cos­
monauts. 
llntil this year these cosmonauts would have all been males. The Soviets, though, sent a woman up with their last space station mission. Boyle said that since the U.S. is now training a woman astronaut, "speculation was that Russia decided not to get shown up so they added women to their space corps," Boyle said. 
Boyle's presentation utilized a slide show to discuss the space programs of other nations. The Europeans have the third largest space program. Their programs are , split between the European Space Agency (ESA) and the programs of individual nations. 
Individual nation programs tend to be militarized. The ESA, though, is a non-military space organization. 
l:loyle remarked that from a finan­cial point of view, it appears that satellite communications is "the one aspect ofspace programs which will make a profit in the future." 
Boyle's lecture was sponsored by the L·S society. They are a chapter of a national organization which seeks to promote space industrialization and colonization. Their purpose at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's is to help keep the campuses informed about space. 


Without side effects 
Male contraceptive sought 
ByJOHN tANGONE 
E:--.pl< •lhng pupubtinn~. ~-~penal!~ 
in Third \\'qrilt' countrie' that can 
lc.t~l support them. knll urgcnn to 
the 'l'.trch !(>r 'unpk. dte;tp and ,,tie 
umtr.tlt'ptin-, t<•r n1.1n. llut why a 
maie ptll when "' nun\ etkl'tiH· 
contracepti'.l'' .tre a vatbhlt-for 
WOlllCII:' 
Coils. diaphragms L.tginal ~up­
po~llones. cen ical cap,_ foam' or 
jellit's and the pill all ~llarplv reduce 
the the chances of pregnancy. Yet, 
c!e,pite the fact that the~<: methods 
work, ~ome of them are far from 
foolproo[ ami other~ can have 
seriou:-~ide efkcrs. furthermore, 
many wornen ask, with all the recent 
adva;1Ces on science, why should 
the burden ofbirth control continue 
to rest largely on the woman' 
In tiiCt, some feminists blame the tailurc: to develop a male pill on male chauvinism. That charge seems un­,founlled in the midst of the current flurry of research into a male pill. Indeed. the problem seems to lie not in sexual politics, but. like that posed by the female pill, in serious 
side effects. 
There is another difficulty: Men 
are always fertile; they release mil· 
lions ofsperm with each ejaculation. 
Women usually release only one egg 
each month. In fact, the sheer num­
bers of male sperm have made it dif­
ficult even to det1ne.male infertility. 
Thus a drug that merely lowers 
the sperm count decreases the prob­
ability of fertilization, but does not 
necessarily rule it out. 
Dr. Dolores Patanelli, a reproduc­
tion physiologist at the National In· 
stitute of Health, explains, "It's a 
mean problem. Everything we have 
done has raised more questions than 
we have answered." 
At the t:niversity of Washington, 
Dr. C. Alvin Paulsen has given -tOO 
male volunteers various combina­
tions ofdrugs: Some took a daily pill 
containing danazol (a synthetic 
male hormone) along with testos­
terone, either orally each day or by 
injection once a month; others got 
an injection of testosterone 
combined with depo-provera, a 
female hormone used to treat 
menstrual difficulties. 
In all the volunteers, sperm 
counts dropped and side effects 
were minor: weight gain. increase in 
breast tissue, llare-ups ofacne: 
Paulsen found that testosterone on combination with depo-provt-ra worked best "in terms of co~l d­
kctivenes~ and acct:ptahilit\ ... 
'I et doctors have reason~ for cau­tion. The hormone has lx·en found to cau~t· changes in the uterust·~ of tem.lle rhesus nH>nkey., who have been given it for ten years. ,ts well <t~ changes in the breasts of kmale lx·agle~. OhYiou~ly. say.s Paulsen. more testing is needed. 
Another promising approach i~ the use of luteinizing hormone· rdea,.,ing hormone, or l.llRII. whi(:h is produced naturally in the ln·pot-
One result of thi~ ~tudy diswrbed tht· scientists, to say nothing of tilt' \'olunteer~. The ~t'\Trt· drop in te' tosterone level~ caused somt· of the mt·n to bccomt: impotent and lo~c their ~ex llrivt:. dkcts that con­tinunl for .,en·ral weeks after the in jcctions wert: halted. 
There is another possible way to block l'ertilization. based on the fact that the motility of the sperm and their ahilit\· tQ krtilize the egg in­.:reast: one~ thev arrive in the kmale reproductive tract. 'oays Dr. (;eorge \\'itman. an expert in cdl move-

halamus. 
Normally, LHRH stimulates the production ofsex hormones and the growth ofsperm. But some modified forms of LHRH have the opposite ef teet: They actually block production of the hormones. 
In a study conducted at Vander­bilt by Dr. David Rabin, eight men were inJected with a synthetic LHRH every day for six to 10 weeks. The result: Testosterone levels tell sharply, sperm production was cut by "S percent to I00 percent, and the ability ofth sperm to move about was hampered. 
ment, "If somehow you could inter· tere with the interaction between spt:rm and egg, there should he no sidt: effects, because such an interac­tion does not affect any other type of cells." 
If that turns out to he the best solution, the quest for the male pill would end in a tina! irony. Says Dr. federico Welsch of the Worcester ( ,\1ass.) Foundation, "It might turn out again to he something that woman might have to take to prevent such an interaction. It would he that the male pill would end up being, again, a female pill." 
•

Economy rematns stagnant 
By ROBERT FURLOW 
Associated Press Writer 
Still well short of recovery, the 
C.S. economy slowed to a meager 
0.8 percent annual growth rate in the third quarter, the government reported Wednesday. Commerce Secretary :\lalcolm Baldrige said little improvement is likely before next year. 
The Commerce Department's report on inflation-adjusted gross national product -a measure of all goods and services produced during the summer -was the last majores· timate of U.S. economic health before the Nov. 2 elections. 
At the White 1-loust:, presidential press secretary Larry Speakes tried to make the best of the tlgures. "We're grateful the economy did turn upward in the third quarter and we expect our growth to continue," he said. 
But the gain was so tiny that l:laldrigr made no claims of recovery from the recession that has stifled the economy for most of President Reagan's first two years in office. 
The report, he told reporter~ at a briefing, "is another indication that the economy is in an interim period bt·tween recession and recovery." 
That analysis was nearly identical to Baldrige's Matement to the same group three months ago. when he said sluggish second-quarter growth -eventually pegged at a 2. I per· cent rate -"suggests that the economy is in a transition stage he· tween recession and recovery." 
Asked Wednesday how long the "interim period" might last. Baldrige answered "through this quarter," that is, until the end ofthe year. 
He said real GNP probably will 
grow only at an annual rate of"2 per· 
cent or less" in the current October· 
December period, considerably less 
than the 3 percent to 4 percent rate 
forecast by Treasury Secretary 
Donald T. Regan. 
There b no official administration forecast for the period. 
Baldrige said growth would pick up to a rate of3 percent to 4 percent next year--only about halfthe pace of typical recoveries in the seven previous recessions since World War II. 
But it should he enough to bring down unemployment -now at a 42-year high of 10.1 percent ­"after the first of the year," he said. 
Arthur Levitt Jr., chairman of the American Stock Exchange, aid in a prepared statement that the figures ''demonstrate that the long-awaited economic recovery remains elusive. The economy cannot quite seem to turn the corner to a strong, sus­tainable economic recovery." 
Real GNP had fallen at annual rates of S.3 percent and 5.1 percent in the last quarter of 1981 and the first quarter of this year. And Baldrige said that after such a plunge, "you don't jump into a full recovery, full-blown." 
j 
~· 
,1 
! . 
~ . 
--------------·-----------------------­
The Observer Thursday, October 21, 1982-page 8 

A painting by a Berlin artist depicting a communist-built wall dividing Berlin. The wall refugee, in addition to a montage of amateur is a favorite "screen" ofen used by Berlin visitors graffiti, can be seen on the western side of the for souvenirengraving. ( APPhoto) 

Before We Put You In Charge Of The World's 
Most Sophisticated Nuclear Equipment, We Put You Through The World's 
Most Sophisticated Nuclear Training. 
It takes more than 16 that most of the men months of intensive who operate the training to become a reactors in private fully qualified officer in industry started in the the Nuclear Navy. You Nuclear Navy. ) begin with four months It takes more time of leadership training. and more effort to Then as a Navy officer become an officer in the you get a full year of Nuclear Navy. But the graduate-level training rewards are greater, too. 
unavailable anywhere else at any price. 
Navy training is based on more than 1900 reactor-years of experience. Right now the Navy operates over half the nuclear reactors in America. And the_ Navy's nuclear equipment is the most sophisticated in the world. That's why your Navy training is and must be the most sophisticated in the world. 
As an officer in the Nuclear Navy, you have decision-making authority immediately. You get important manage­
The rewards can begin as early as your junior year in college. Qualify, and the Navy will pay you approximately $1000/month while you finish school. 
After four years, with regular promotions and salary increases, you can be earning as much as $37,400. That's on top of a benefits package that includes medical and dental care, and 30 days' vacation earned every year. More responsibility, more money, more future. So, if you're majoring in math, 
ment responsibility fast. Because in the Navy, as your knowl­edge grows, so does your responsibility. 
Your training and experience place you among the country's most qualified profes­sionals. (No surprise 
r ;:;;V~;;O;;U-;;;T~ ----;;;1 INFORMATION CENTER 
I

I P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015 I I
0 Please send me more information about becoming an officer in the Nuclear Navy. !0Nl 
I 1
Name__~~--~rr.=~~~---.~-----­
First 1PIL•ast• Print) Lust I 1 Address Apt. If___ 
I I
City State Zip_
I I
Age tCollegl•/UniverHity 
:j:Year in College tGPA 
II -"'Major/Minor:___________________ 
I I
Phone Number 

I 
IArea Codl") Rest Time to Call ThiS is for genNal recruitment information. You dn nc't havt• to 
I 

furnish any of the information requested. Of courst>. th(• more Wt> know, the more we can help to determinL• the kinds of Navy posi· 
J 

tions for which you qualify.
L ----------­
LOS ANGELES (AP)-john Z. De Lorean, who said two days ago that he had found the cash to save his failing auto company, was arraigned yesterday on charges of being the moneyman in a S24 million cocaine deal. 
De Lorean, a high-rolling interna­tional entrepreneur, was accused of conspiring to possess 220 pounds of cocaine with the intent to distribute it. He did not enter a plea, but his attorney, Bernard Minsky, said he would plead innocent to all charges. 
Bail was set at SS million after a heated argument in which Assistant 
U.S. Attorney james Walsh con­tended De Lore an "views himself as well above the Jaw." 
Minsky said De Lore an would post the SS million bail. 
Walsh, who had sought bail of S20 million, told U.S. Magistrate Volney Brown he was afraid De Lorean would flee. 
"He is a staggering and astronomi­cal bail risk," said Walsh. "If he runs away, and well he may -so the government is S5 million richer, so what." 

engineering or the physical sciences, and you want to know more about a future in nuclear power, fill in the coupon. 
Today's Nuclear Navy is an opportunity like no other in the world. 
Navy Officers Get ResponsibilityFast. 
De Lorean arraigned on cocaine charges 
A Nov. 1 preliminary hearing was 
scheduled. 

De Lorean listened intently as Minsky portrayed him as a selfless entrepreneur concerned only with saving his company. 
De Lorean, unshaven and with his hands cuffed behind him, strode briskly through a mob of reporters outside the courtroom. His wife, in­ternational model Christina Ferrare, embraced him when he entered the courtroom and the couple spoke briefly. 
The 57-year-old former General Motors executive was "financier" of the drug operation, according to Richard T. Bretzing, special agent in charge of the Los Angeles FBI office. Bretzing said De Lorean had several pounds of cocaine with him when arrested Tuesday. 
Also charged were William Mor­gan Hetrick, 50, owner of a Mojave, Calif., aircraft service company, and Stephen Lee Arrington, 34, of San Diego, described as a Hetrick as­sociate. The three were accused of conspiring to distribute cocaine and possession of cocaine with intent to distribute. 
Bretzing said De Lorean came to Los Angeles to buy 220 pounds of cocaine -worth S24 million on the street -and speculated that the deal was meant to salvage the failing De Lorean Motor Co. 
"His company is in severe finan­cial problems," Bretzing said, "and he feared the possibility of his com­pany being closed down by the government which had extended loans to him..." 
Ironically, De Lorean was arrested on the day the British government annnounced the closing of his com­pany's manufacturing plant in Bel­fast, Northern Ireland, because of financial problems. 
In a Monday interview with the British Broadcasting Corp., De Lo~m ~d ~ h~ KCU~d ilie money needed to save the firm. 
"We're planning to keep this com­pany alive no matter what happens," De Lorean said. "And we have the funding in place. It's in the bank." 
De Lorean declined to say where he got the money. 
"I'm not allowed to say that until the transaction is concluded," he said. 
"The man must have been driven 
to distraction to try and raise the 
money in order to recreate his 
dream," Ben Wilson, who represents 
De Lorean creditors in Northern 
Ireland. said in London. 
Thousands mourn slain Polish youth 

NOWA HUTA, Poland (AP) ­Marching slowly to Chopin's funeral dirge under banners declaring "Solidarity Lives," thousands of angry and despairing Poles yester­day buried a young unionist killed by police in riots set off by a govern­ment ban on the independent union. 
Hundreds ofriot police backed by helmeted paratroopers kept a tight grip on !'Iowa Huta to prevent new unrest as an estimated 10,000 mour­ners and at least 21 Roman Catholic priests left the funeral of 20-year-old Bogdan Wlosik. 
".\ly son, oh my son," cried Irena Wlosik as she threw herself twice onto her son's coffin. Her husband Jozef and their daughter Malgorzata wept t as the coffin was lowered slow­ly into the ground by friends. 
"My son, sleep calmly in our Polish earth on which you were not permitted to live in peace," said a banner on one of about 60 wreath~ placed amid tlowers piled over six 
_ feet high on Wlosik's grave. 
_,..........,.,.,.,_-·-~----._.-,...~----'11111----.....---!ljlllo-----!!!!i!ll-------~~~~~~-....--..----------------·.. -______....,.________ 
... 
····,:>,:··

Editorials 
Thursday, October 21, 1982-page 9 
Dawning age of 24-hour television 
Insomniacs on campus, take heart. Now, Charlie Chan movies, no "Sunrise Semester." you too, can stay up late and watch T.V. No NBC brings you "Overnight," a recap of the longer will you be forced to listen to Fr. Hes­days events, presented with healthy banter burgh read the prayer of St. Francis and the from the show's anchors, Linda Ellerbe and national anthem just after midnight. Never Lloyd Dobbins. The show is getting better. In 
this column several weeks ago, I chided the 
producers for offering us the stories "not

Skip Desjardin 
quite good enough to make the evening news." Though that still happens occasionally,
On the Media 
it occurs with much less frequency than 
before. again will you have to stare at test-patterns "Overnight" is growing into the role of in­right after the "Columbo" reruns. formation/entertainment supplier. Whereas 
The networks have gone the way of Ted the initial shows were technically sloppy, Turner, and they are staying on much later at with missed videotape cues, and sound rop­night. CBS never goes offthe air anymore. outs common, the production has improved 
Before you get too excited, however, sit vastly. The show flows well from one segment down and watch the late-night T.V. fare. It's to the next, and the time-lags between stories news, news, and a dose of talk. No more have been eliminated. In short, "Overnight" is 
Technology with fait~ 
Dean of the College of Engineering Roger gives man a free will. Ifa scientist has not faith, Schmitz officially received the McCloskey might he be tempted to believe solely in the Chair at a mass this past Sunday. Fr. Hesburgh power of man (ofeducation only?) gave an inspiring homily during which he What remains of the first division between noted: at Notre Dame we are not just to the Church and Science? Or at least, what become educated in the field ofour vocation; parallels are present in today's society' Robert 
M. Pirsig, in Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance succinctly portrays the separa­
David M. Schorp 
tion ofcaring from technology. " ...Typical of modern society (is) an overall dullness of ap­
Chautauqua in Faith 
pearance so depressing that it must be over­
laid with a veneer of 'style' to make it more importantly, we are to learn wisdom acceptable ... Now it's not just depressingly necessary to guide any vocation. His theme dull, it's also phony. Put the two together and 
was that the McCloskey Chair is bestowed not you get a pretty accurate description of only upon an outstanding engineer, but upon modern American Technology: stylized cars a very fine human being as well. A dean who so and stylized outboard motors and stylized 
exemplifies the integration of faith and typewriters and stylized clothes . . . Plastic science is truly one ofGod's great blessings to stylized toys for stylized children, who at this University. Christmas and birthdays are in style with their 
How earnestly is wisdom pursued by the stylish parents ... It's the style that gets you; students he and the other deans of Notre technological ugliness syruped over with Dame colleges are responsible for? Anyone romantic phoniness in order to produce 
who has personal contact with a man in so beauty and profit by people who, though 
high a position, yet so kind and considerate, stylish, don't know where to start because no can't help but be touched. But of course the one has ever told them there's such a thing as transmission of wisdom takes place not only Quality in this world ..." through personal contact with the many truly How well these words describe a 
great men who compose the faculty of this materialistic society in which, sadly, so few of University. those who produce and consume truly realize 
The most important courses a student can the guidance offaith. take are those in philosophy and theology. In his inaugural address, Dean Schmitz The basis of any true education is wisdom, addressed the mutual distrust and misun­
which begets the ability to realistically derstanding between scientists and engineers, embrace the goodness of life. Philosophy and the other, great majority of society teaches us to think for ourselves, about life, possessing nontechnical backgrounds. Dr. and so is the basis for a faith built on reason. Schmitz' answer to the problem of this divi­Philosophy is not a specialized subject sion is a communication between these reserved for liberal arts majors or seminarians. opposing groups -a communication based In fact, who might need wisdom (the fun­on shared appreciation tor the good of 
damental, God-inspired grasp on reality) humanity. And in Fr. Hesburgh's words, it is 
more than those pupils of science and the call of the engineer to realize that "he 
engineering who will focus their study on builds not just a house, but a home for the 
man's attempts to describe the world? Or security of a family." How wise are the words 
business students who will be much involved ofthese men. 
with the material aspects of life, or the stu­The integration of religion and technology 
dents of the humanities? is desperately needed in todav's societv. For 
A major schism between the Church and the scientist's part, he needs the humili~y and 
Science concerned Galileci's discoveries in generosity faith brings. to tocus the great 
astronomy in 1609. The Church, understan­power of his work. How will the consumer 
dably, could not assimilate into itself ideas so respond if he perceives the technologist as 
challenging and radical to its teaching. Galileo humble and caring, and receives the scien­
was cast out of the Church because of his tist's love in his quality technology. By realiz­teachings (reminding us ofa man 16 centuries ing that technology is his way to "love the 
earlier). This is a classic example of the world," a scientist puts love, the ingredient of courage and strength necessary tor an institu­highest quality, into eveq: piece ofhis work. tion, as well as for an individual, to examine 
our way of living -the beliefs which con­Quality and Craftsmanship are the blending 
stitute our wisdom. ofArt and TechnolO!-.'Y· possible through a rich 
God gives man both the capacity to explore appreciation of Human Good, which stems 
his world and the grace so necessary for him from Wisdom, begotten of Faith and Love, 
to become wiser for his effort. But He also graces ofGod. 
a tighter program now. all-news radio stations in America, 
With better stoq· material to work with, "Nightwatch" repeats itself periodically, and more time in which to tell those stories, and begins to cover the news again for anyone ~ two fine writers staffing the anchor desks, the who just tuned in. show surpasses "Nightline" for catching the Turner is definitely the culprit behind this viewers' attention, and keeping them in­move. Several CBS stations threatened -and terested in what's going on. some carried through the threats -to sub­
At ABC, there are plans to expaniL scribe to Turner's headline service "CNN 2" "Nightline" somewhat. The news operation is to fill the overnight time slot. Those threats drooling at the chance to grab the late sent CBS scurrying to the blackboard. night/early morning time slot. Though the They came up with a headline service that show, which began as a nightly recap ofevents tills spare time with radio-style talk shows: during the Iranian hostage crisis, provides in­"Hello, Peoria, what do you think of depth coverage not tound anvwhere else Reaganomics?" during the week, its tormat is, i~ itselt~ limit­Well, it can only be carried so far. CBS is ing: trying to compete with Turner, NBC, Mutual 
The expansion of news coverage will give Radio's Larry King, and whoever else is out ABC a chance to focus on the day's top story, there. They are biting off more than they can examine it thoroughly, and still cover the chew. The news itself needs work -the same other events in the world. We will still have to kind that "Overnight" needed (and got) after look at the back of Ted Koppel's head as he its debut. talks . to world leaders -but at least we'll get The talk show has got to go. It's too small­to know what is going on in the rest of the town. world, too. Given time, however, and a monetary com­
CBS has made the biggest plunge into all­mitment CBS has gm to resign itself to, 
night news. "Nightwatch" is a headline "Nightwatch" just might earn its keep. 
service that runs trom 1:00 to S:OO in the After all, anything is better than "Sunrise 
morning. Patterned after the many successful Semester." 
P.O. Box Q 0-C newsletter insulting 
Dear Editor: it, the police know it, and worst of all, the 
In his October 6 edition of The Off­scum know it." And in a tina! insult to his 
Campus Newsletter, Bill Brombach writes: fdlow students, white and black, and to the 
"I like to mix a little humor in with the news, community of which he is now a part, he 
so read the articles in the spirit in which they tells us that a 0-C security log is being kept, 
are written. Apparently some people are not "entitled 'A little ditty, 'bout Rufus and 
doing that ..." After reading his article on Tyrone."' 
page 2 about off-campus crime, I am Whatever his trustrations at the un­
definitely among the latter group. deniable fact ofoft:campus crime, this mean­
Speculating about a recent robbery at his spirited article, in "The Official Voice of the 
own house, Mr. Bromback writes: "Maybe oft·-campus Commission," goes nowhere in 
some people were irked at being called addressing the problem. 
South Bend vermin, and decided to imple­What it does accomplish is an even fur­
ment their own version of the trickle-down ther estrangement of Notre Dame students 
effect. I don't know. I didn't think the tene­trom their fellow South Bend residents. 1 
ments were on my mailing list." The "spirit" hope \1r. Brombach will keep his humor to 
here is more vicious than humorous. himself trom now on. 
:vir. Brombach continues: "Basically, we Brian McFeeters 
(0-C students) are sitting ducks. We know Class of'83 
Stick to reporting 
Dear Editor: their hatred for you' I would tend to believe 
I would like to direct this letter to our that love is a stronger motivator than hatred, 
loyal sports editor and his sidekick the ti>r I would hardlv die to harm mv enemv 
Emeritus. whereas I would rish my life to help. a triend. 
First ofall, \lr. :-.ieedles and \lr. Desjardin, Why not use your columns to boost morale' 
I would like to straighten you out on your I'd expect to see articles such as vours in 
roles as writers tor The Obseruer. Your joh \tiami or Ann Arbor. :vtr. Needles, w'hat hap­
should be to report tairly the results ofeach pened to your wave of optimism ti>llowing 
athletic event. When you get paid to make the .\1ichigan game? Oh you poor fair 
coaching decisions tine; but until such a· weather tan, you don't bleed Notre Dame 
time comes, please keep your amateurish blue nor even the red of a gentleman. You 
opinions to yourselYes. bleed the yellow ofa coward. 
I thought you were on our side, hut your 
cynicism has done more to undermine the \lr. :-.ieedles, you snake in the grass, why 
Notre Dame spirit than could a decade of don't you just slither away unnoticed. As for 
losing seasons, football and basketball both. you \lr. Desjardin, o eternal skeptic, what 
The repercussions ofyour pessimism among makes you think that the football team owes 
the student body have been truly sobering. you a national championship' They only 
Where there once was a "never sav die" owe themselves -not the fans or the press. 
spirit, there is now criticism of anv ~nd all :'vtr. Desjardin, your betrayal of the Notre 
coaching decisions. \tv disdain tor the both Dame community is reminiscent of !ago's 
of you is of the level ~f my disdain for the betrayal of Othello. Would that you would 
person who poisoned the Tylenol. tall on a sword' A final word for our dissent­
Whv do ,·ou trv to destrov the :-.lotre ing duo: stick to reporting the facts and let 
Dam~ -tamily. by co;lstantly sec<;nd-guessing the coaches do their jobs. 
the coaches and discrediting the players? Charley Rafferty 
Are you trying to motivate them through St. Edward's Hall 
Editorial Board Department Managers 
The O!Jren-er is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Editor-in-Chief. ........................... -.Michael Monk 
Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello
Un1ver\1ty of Notre Dame du Lac ;lnd Saint Mary's Collc~c. It does not ne.:es\arily 
Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes 
Controller ................... -....-....................Eric Schulz
rdk'l.t the pohcws of the admm1stration of either institution. The news i~ report· 
SMCExecutive Editor............Margaret Fosmoc Advertising Manager..._................... Chris Owen
cd as atcurately a~d as obJt'ttiH:ly as pos\lblc. Editorials represent the opinion of 
Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles 
Production Manager..................Maura Murphy
a maJonty of the l:d,tonal Board. Co.nment;uics, opinions and letters are the views 
Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn 
Circulation Manager ..........................Ray Inglin 
of their author~ .. ( olumn spa(c is available to all member\ of the (()mmunlty, and 
Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown 
Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley ' 
the frce expressiOn of varying opimom on campu~. through letters, i~> en(Ounged 
Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount P.O.Hox Q, Notre D~m1e, IN ~6556 (219) l:N-SJ05 Fou~ded November 3, 1966 

The Observer Sports Special-Hockey Thursday, October 21, 1982 -page 10 

Laurion, Poulin 
Graduation losses hurt '82 Irish 
By RA~DY F AHS Earl) report~ suggc,tc<,l that the g.a.a. and a-.::; record la~l scason. lie '>ports !r"rit.-r .,peed) center might not reach top 
is lbted a~ ..,mith's No. I goalkeeper, t<.•rm until around Christma., time. 
hut fresh111an Mickq 1\..tppck from \\"ith the gnduation lo~.'it'' ol bur ;wcording to Smith. the knee ha., 
St. <.hJrll''· Ill. has hccn rhe mosr goalie l>a\t' !.aurum and the lOp rc,pondcd well. .tnd lkllom) b 
consistent goal keeper in practicl.'. '>COring line ol l>an: l'ouhn. Bdl ,li_ating witholll trouble. lie is l'X­
Tht· battle hetwet·n thc two playns Roth,.,t<:in ami _lt:ff Logan. the "<otrt: pectnl t<J be in the lincup when 
f"', tigurl'S to be an illlcn·,ting facet of Dam~: hu<:kl·~ te;u11 will have a lot of .'\Joll"l' Dame opens it~ :-.cason tomor­
I he I 'JH2 -H_.~ sea.son. new lact:s row night at \llchigan. 
It will he qtute ;1 kat tor the lri'h
LaM \ear the ln,.,h icns complin.i Othn return mg pia~ cr., who 
hod,cy team to do as well as 11 did 
J 2.\-1 'i-2 record which L·;lfllt:d them li"gure to be import,llll parts ol the last !'>eason. Smith ts concentrating.1 fourth pl,tce tini,h in th..: CCH.-\_ lrbh otlt:n:-.c are Brent Chapm.m. 
on fund;Imenrab and di.,ciplincd
l'ht· team capped a latc sea,.,on "urgt: John !'lease\ and l'im Rl'illy. L.1:-.t 
pa~>osing. The lrisll l'Xpl.'ct to put anby making it to tht: finab ot the year, Chapman comributl'd I2 goals 
exciting tcam on the icc. onc \\hose
CCIIA playoff~ where it lmt to \lich­and scvl'n as!'>ists. llca!'>ey ha' beu1 
tl">rtc will he de,irt·.

igan Statt:. 11arrow lv mb,ing a hl·rth mo\Td from centcr hack to lett wing in tht: NCA:\ tournamt:nt. where he originally ~tarted. The Smith also wants to get the Notre Coach Charles "Ldiy" Smith rugged l{eilly will be counted on for Dame sllldl·nt body hchind the 
docsn't want to apply too mud1 his hustlc .tnd checking ability. team. realizing that it ban important pressurt: to his incoming tre!>hmen. The Irish dd(:nse i!'> going to be pan ofany team's success. hut clt:arly tht:y havt: to be counted without hig Jim Brown and John Overall, Smith is highly optimistic on to pick up the slack caused by the Schmidt, who have graduatl.'d. Tht: about Notre Dame's chance!'> for loss of six of last )Tar's top nine development of r~:placemems was success this season. lie Sl'CS manv 
scorers. Center Steve Dianchi and set back due to the losses of Sean technica-l improvements 
from th~ right winger John Devoe may work Regan for f(nlr to six w(·ek!'> with a team's work in pr;~ctice and fed.~ their way into a regular forward line. broken arm, and seniorJohn Keating that the ream is now jelling. Other new faces include Todd who will also be out four to six "It may be a lillie premature to 
Toumie and Jim Murphy, a transfer weeks, hut with a deep thigh bruise. tell," says Smith. "Last yt·ar's squad student from Colorado College. Returning to the Irish defensive didn't put it all togt:theF until the Seniors Kirt Bjork, Rex Bellomy corps will be joe Bowie, Rob Ricci, Great Lakes Tournament over 
and John Higgins will figure to be Tony Bonadio and Steve Ely. Fresh­Christmas hreak." 
NO's biggest scoring threat. La:;t man backliners Mark Benning, Greg So, it may take a while to tell if the year the three combined for 41 goals lludas and Bob Thebeau are also ex­Irish can repeat last season's success and 63 assists. pected to get a long look. story. But, in any event, it all gets un­
Over the summer, Rex Bellomy Returning in goal will be senior derway tomorrow night at Ann Ar­injured a knee and required surgery. Bob McNamara, who had a 4. 15 
bor. 


1982-83season 
Higgins, Doman serve as _captains 
Bowling Green last season. ford to carry a big brawler on their
ByJUDY McNAMARA 
"It's quite an honor being elected squad anymore." co-captain," says the Minnesota· When asked how they get born Doman. prepared for a big game, Doman 
Sports Writer 
In April, seniors John Higgins and "I think we were elected because says, "We all try to think about the
Mark Doman were elected co­game but not really think about it.
captaim of the Notre Dame hockey of the example we set," adds Hig­
team for this season. The senior duo gins, a Toronto native, "not because We do this by relaxing and joking we are the big scorers." around with the other guys in the
say that the team "is planning a few surprises." Higgins, a right winger, scored locker room." nine goals and had II assists while Neither player intends to go on to playing in 36 games last season. Hig­a career in professional hockey. 

gins' great attitude and hard-nosed Doman plans to follow a career with playing style make him a natural his major in psychology and minor team leader. in business, while Higgins will be 
When asked how Notre Dame seeking a future in husiness ad­hockey has changed their lives, ministration after graduation. Doman says, "It's basically a full-time Both co-captains fed that a vital 
job that has allowed us to become factor in the success of the Irish this pretty close with the other guys, season is student support. Last who we live with practicaly seven season, the hockey program lost a days a week." great deal of revenue due to paltry 
Higgins, who acts as tht: Irish en­attendance figures. As a result, they forcer on the ice, set a team record have reinstated the dollar student with 27 penalty minutes in a 3-2 loss ticket policy this season to help at Northern Michigan last season. stimulate support. 
"I think fighting is a thing of the "It only costs one dollar for a tick­past in college and pro hockey, " et," says Doman, "so just sacrifce a says Higgins. "Most teams can't af-beer and come watch us play." 
hockey has had its share of changes. 
!rfark Doman 
When Smith was a player, at age 21 
he was considered too old for a 
hockey career. 
"Last year we were one game "At that time a 15-or 16-year-old away from making the NCAA wa~ considered ripe for a profes­playoffs," says Doman. "We finished sional hockey career," says Smith. second in the league. This year we "Starting in the late 60's, it are predicted to t1nish eighth but developed that the college hockey we've got a few surprises. player was suddenly able to play in 
"The big class ahead of us really the pro ranks. Now this opened up a played a Jot. Most of us played under whole new era. Formerly, kids who them for three years and are looking had heen drafted from the junior forward to taking advantage of the high or high school ranks were now new openings." getting an education and going into 
The team lost ten seniors from last the professional ranks later. So I'd year and is looking towards Higgins h;;ve to say that tht: caliber ofcollege and Doman to provide the leader­hockey has risen tremendously 
ship needed. since the bast• oftalent has increased 
Gone are defensemenJim Brown. as far as recruiting. John Schmidt andJohn Cox; wingers "In Canada you have a great Dan Collard, )eff Logan. jeff Perry educational system in that kids start and Bill Roth~tein; goalies David 'tracking' after grade t:ight, and l.aurion and Dan O'Donnell; and combine sports and education early center David Poulin. on. So the caliber of individual ha~ 
Doman, a center, played in 38 improved. The ~ize ha.' changed games last season, scoring seven dramatically. In the "70's we went goals and adding seven assists. through 'goon' hockey, but now wt: Doman is known as a clutch perfor­see more of a finesse game with mer. He scored the second-period skating and speed. Today there is 
goal that put the Irish ahead to stay more parity in hockey than in any
Senior Bob McNamara will probably be start­tion from freshman Mickey Kappele. (Photo by 
in the 8-5 Central Collegiate Hockey 
ing in goal this year. but be is facing stiffcompe. Sports Information) 
See IRISH, page 11

A.ssociation semifinal victory over 
RexBellomy is coming offknee surgery this summer and will be at 100 percent at Christmas time. See Randy Fahs' preview ofthe Irish season at left. (Photo courtesy Sports lnfomwtion) 
Smith begins 15th 
year as Irish coach. 
Dame had let out the word that they
By ED KONRADY 

were going to start a varsity hockey program. An alumnus from Min­nesota talked to Mr. (Moose) Krause 
Sports Writer 

Charles "Lefty" Smith. and recommended me_ Mr. Krause
Those three words sum up the talked to me, and I met with FatherNotre Dame hockey program since Joyce, and I got the job.

1968. That was when Smith took a "My main reason for taking the job
club sport and turned it into a win­

was the fact that when I was offeredning varsity team that played against 
three or four other coaching jobs,the best college hockey teams they really didn't coincide with my
around. Smith posted a I6-8-5 philosophy of what I thought col­
record in his first season. lege athletics should be all about.
Thirteen years after that initial Notre Dame was the first school thatseason, Smith boasts a career record I had run across besides the Ivy

of 292-258-2';, and I4 teams of League ~chools that had the
hockey players, all of whom have philosophy ofnot exploiting the ath­
graduated -on time. lete -letting him get his education
How did the modern-day Notre while letting him use his athletic

Dame hockey program begin? talent to develop himselfas a person
"I was coaching some high school as well as represent the university."
hockey and some senior hockey up Fourteen years is a long time,
in Minnesota," says Smith. "Notre especially in sports, and the game of 
--~-­ ~--~~~--------.....­ 
----------------------------­-~--­The Observer Sports Special -Hockey  ----­-----·------­Thursday, October 21, 1982-page 11  


Olympic hopeful 
Bjork shines in Sports Festival 
By STEVEN LABATE 23 years of age. "It's quite an honor playing for an NHL team until after Sports Writer to be selected," says Bjork. "The the Olympic tryouts." Those tryouts heart of the Olympic team comes will not be easy. The year was 1980; the town was from here (the Festival)." "The competition is very good," Lake Placid, N.Y. The 80 players are then divided Bjork says. "Out ofthe 80, the roster 
It was a Sunday morning and all of into four squads of 20, each will be trimmed to 48. Then they America were watching their boys representing a broad geographic (the Olympic hockey coaches) will of winter, the United States Hockey region of the country. The members run tryouts and keep jockeying the Team, deteat Finland to win the of the winning team in this round­players. Olympic gold medal. With just a few robin tournament receive a gold "I would say that right now the seconds left on the clock, ABC play­medal. only shoe-in's are Bob Brook from by-play man AI Michaels provided Kirt Bjork has participated in two Yale and Mark Hamway from Michi· the epitaph for "America's Team": Festivals thus far, and has two gold gan State." "Who were they a week-and-a-half medals to show for his efforts. The Although Bjork is the only current ago? Morrow and Ramsey, Baker and first gold came at the 1981 Festival Irish player to participate in the Fes­
Silk, Broten and Johnson, Pavelich held at the University of Syracuse. tival games, three of his ex­and McClanahan, and all ofthem. We Over the course of the tournament, teammates from last season (Dave know them all now." Moments later, Kirt netted four goals and four as­Laurion, Jeff Logan and John the United States had won its first sists. This past July in Indianapolis, Schmidt) joined him at Syracuse in Olympic ice hockey gold medal in he received his second gold after 1981. Last week it was announced 20 years. contributing a goal and three assists that the trio had been selected as 
Now, with the 1984 Winter Olym­to his team's performance. members of the U.S. National Team pics just a little more than a year Bjork's accomplishments at the to play in a world tournament next away, the list ofplayers vying for one National Sports Festivals merit con­March in Japan. This squad is also a of the 20 spots on the U.S. Hockey siderable attention when you realize prime source for Olympic players. Team is lengthy and unfamiliar. that 19 out of 20 members of the Whether history repeats itself iQ However, one player's name, Kirt 1980 Olympic hockey team were 1984 remains to be seen. Equally in· Bjork, should seem quite familiar to former Festival participants. Since determinate is whether Bjork & Co. Notre Dame hockey fans. The senior 1980, only four players other than will be part of the team when they alternate captain has a very good Bjork have played on two gold put on the red, white, and blue. But chance to be among those who are medal teams. one has to like their chances. chosen to represent the United Every National Hockey League Especially Kirt Bjork's. States in the 1984 Games in Yugos­team has scouts at the Festival lavia. games, but it is Lou Vairo, head 

Consider the following: coach of the 198-I Olympic hockey Every year in preparation for the team, whose attention Bjork seeks at 
• • .Irish

Olympics, the top 80 amateur hock­the present time. 
Kirt Bjork, an alternate captain thisyear, playedand won a gold ey players in the country are invited No NHL team has signed him to a medal in the National Sports Festival. See Steve Labate's story at to play in the National Sports Fes­contract yet, but should one do so continuedji·om page IO right. (Photo courtesy Sports Information) tival. The players range from I 5 to this season, Bjork says he will "defer other sport. 
"At Notre Dame, right now, we have more talent than ever before," continues Smith. "However, be· cause of the parity, it isn't easily seen. I think the talent has changed
CCHApredictionsfor 1982-83 
tremendously, especially as far as size, speed and finesse. When we center Brian Hills, will be returning. hockey at the end oflast season. Hut came here in 1968, we only had
ByRANDYFAHS Rob Humphnes ano IJave McGil­
Hills was the CCHA's leading scorer they were decimated by the loss of three recruits. All the rest were just
Sports Writer loway.last year with 34 goals and 47 assists two top defenseman, goalie Dave kids who happened to be on
When you get down to this pointfor 81 points. Laurion and six out of nine of last campus, and we played a Division I
1982-83 PREDICTIONS of the division, you run into some of Other members of Bowling year's top scorers. The Irish oftense and II schedule. It was very tough.
!.Michigan State the weaker teams in the CCHA, but Green's offense who will be back are will be led by Kirt Bjork and Rex Bel­
2. Bowling Green the Bulldogs will not be an easy op­Pete Wilson, Peter Brown, Dave lomy, who tallied 44 and 40 points
3.Michigan Tech ponent for most teams. 
O'Brian andJohn Semanski. The first respectively last season.
4.Michigan Northem Michigan
three players combined for 65 goals The Irish could have a strong
5. 
Notre Dame Last year this team started by win· 

last year; Semanski missed most of

6. 
Lake Superior St. team, but there are a lot ofquestion ning I:\ of its first 18 games, but last season with a broken wrist.


7. Ferris State marks going into the season. tlnished by winning only two of the 
8. Northern Michigan This team probably won't chal­Lake Superior St. remaining 18. The offense is strong 9.Miami (Ohio) lenge MSU for the top spot, but it Coach Bill Selman's team will and will be led by Dave Mogush, 
10. 
Ohio State should be strong enough to plan; have even more new faces than who scored 29 goals last season. 

11. 
Chicago Circle second in the CCHA. Notre Dame. Twenty of his top 27 Other top pointgetters from last 

are or Tech will have a strong club, but freshmen, with 13 being new­and Bruce Martin ( -!8 points). The the loss of three senior defensemen comers. Returning forwards include problem here is a lack ofdepth. Michigan State from last year will prevent them The detense is the weak link ofthe 

12. 
Western Michigan Michigan Tech players either sophomores season are Eric Ponath (55 points) 


Steve Mulholland with 56 points last 
The Spartans, coached by Ron from taking one of the top two spots year and Wayne Vetero, who team. Freshman "Big Todd" .\1orris­Mason, are everyone's preseason in the CCHA standings. All is not lost chipped in 39 points. Other key of­sette will not t shore up a defense led favorite to take the CCHA. They on the back line though. Mike fensive players include :\1onty by juniors Bill Schathauser and Dave were tough enough last year to Smith.
O'Connor and Wade Sparrow will Beauchamp and Allan Butler. finish second overall in the CCHA Goaltending is another big ques­
anchor the back line. They will be The defensive corps is led by Dave 
standings, win the league champion· aided by freshmen Scott Compton, Keegan, who scored :\I point~ last tion mark withJeff Poeschi and Scott Charles "Lejf)'" Smith Dave Rerrson and Jim Husted. In season on I-! goals and I..., assists.
ship, and earn an NCAA tournament Stoltzner. Poeschi posted a -i.H-i goal for the Huskies will be sopho­Other backlines include Brian Grat­"While we don't have the same
berth The thing that makes them so g.a.a. last year. · more John Dougan and freshman ton, Chris Guy, and freshmen jim Be· amount of scholarships as other
tm•f!il j, the fact almost everyone This team is weak, but a tightening 
Bob Krautsak. Allen had a 16-8-1 cker and .\1ark Vichorek. schools, we think that because ofthe
from b~L 'c.lr'~ ~quad" returning. of the detense could make Northern 
Tne key to the team's ~ucces~ is record last season with a 3.62 goals The top goalie is Lawrence Dyck .\lichigan the sleeper of the CCHA. quality ofeducation, the tradition of against average. who compiled a :\.87 against average Notre Dame, has enabled us to get
junior goaltender Ron Scoll who Miami (Ohio) The forwards see a return of Bill last season. He is being challenged the young man that we want." 
may be the best at his position in col­The Redskins will return 18 of 25 With the change in players came a
lege hockey. He posted a 76-14-2 Terry, whose 50 points were the by treshmen Scott Anderson and joe letterwinners. Among these are last 
team's best a year ago. Also return­Shawcan. year's three top scorers: Steve Mor­change in coaching style. "The style
record last season, playing in all of ing are Steve Murphy, Frank Lansole There are wo many new faces or ris (50 points), Dave Weddon ( -!5 changes every year with a change in
MSU's games. In front of him will be a veteran defense led by all-league and Ron Zuke, all ofwhom scored at youngsters this year for this team to points) and Rick Kuraly ( 38 points). personnel," Smith says. "If you've least 32 points or better. Look for finish much higher than the middle Top freshman recruits are Paul got people who are big and strong
performers Ken Leiter and Gary 
ofthe standings in the CCHA. then you have to change to a more
Hoight. Tech to be among the CCHA's better Beirnes, John Ciotti and Bill Easdale, 
Ferris State hitting game; if they are small and
teams in 1982-83. The Bulldogs will be led by quick you want to go to a more 
All of State's big scorers are back. who will put up a strong challenge 
The names to watch are Mark Ham-Michigan for the remaining forward spots. returning all-CCHA detenseman Jim finesse game.
way, who tallied 65 points on :\-! CoachJohn Giordano's team had a The detense is led by senior Kevin 
File and new unit(>rms. In his second "The greatest change in style
goals and 31 assists last year. The big tight defense last year, but it Beaton, who tallied 42 points last 
couldn't manage to put the puck in season, File scored 13 goals, 2--i as­came with the Russians' domination
playmaker is Newel Brown, who had season. The experienced backlines 
a league record 51 assists to add to the net often enough. Most of last sists for .P poims. He'll be joined on include Doug Salmen, Dave McClin­in hockey for a number of years. More puck control came into play,
his 22 goals for a total of 73 points. year's forwards are returning with a the back line by seniors Rob Smith tock, Joe Block and Andrew McMil­The Spartan offense is young. Some year's experience and should show and Leo Brideau, as well as sopho· lin. The goaltending duties will be which is quite different than the 
United States and Canada was ac­
sophomores to look for are Kelly some improvement. Ted Speers led mores Brad Hildestad and Rob handled by junior Alain Chevaier, 
customed to, which was more of a
Miller, Tom Anastos, Gord Flegel last year's team with 63 points. He'll Brownie. who posted a -l. 16 g.a. a. last season, power style of hockey, a dump and
and Lyle Phair. be joined once again by double-digit The goaltending duties will be and freshman John Davis. run. Now, of course, we wish to see
The offense and defense forms a goal scorers Brad Tippett and Paul handled by Rob Hughston who Ohio State, Illinois-Chicago that we can react to every situation
one-two punch that should be hard Kobylarg. posted a solid 3.95 goals against Circle, Westem Michigan
This is an exciting club that is average last season. that presents itselfto us, and then try
to beat. Who cares how they finish? They Bowling Green bound to upset a few teams during Last year's team MVP, Paul Cook, 
to react to that situation."
should all be pronounced dead on 

But that is the past. This will be a
This is the only other CCHA team the season, en route to a solid finish returns after compiling ·-iS points on arrival. All three are in need of 18 goals and 27 assists. He'll be year of rebuilding for Smith and his
to land a spot in the NCAA playoffs in the standings. serious rebuilding and will probably last season. All-Americans George Notre Dame joined by junior center Randy Mer· fail to crack the top eight teams that Irish, a year that could try th6 McPhee and Brian MacLellan have Coach Lefty Smith's Irish were rifield, who chippe,d in 26 points last make the playoffs. patience of the elder statesman of 
the ACC ice arena.
graduated,_~t _a third all-American, one of the hottest teams in college season, and freshmen Dean Clark, 


--·---------------------·-------­
-~ 

--------------~------·---------~----­
~j)()f4tS=J:J==~==i=~~~~S=============================T=h=u=rs=d=ay=,o=c=t~)b=e=r=21=,=19=8=2===pa=g=e=12=

i 
I 
f 
f 
t 
l 
I 
'l 
' 
By The Obserl'er and The .4ssocia ted Press 

Notre Datne-Penn State could be televised. ABC is considering whether to televise the Nov. 13 game starting at 3:30 
p.m. EST. The The Observer reported yesterday that the game was being moved ahead from its scheduled 1:30 p.m. kickoff time and that special lights have been ordered. ABC had not been determined whether the telecast would be regional or national. Bernstein told The Associated Press yesterday that the game is "not officially locked into place yet. We have looked at it and discussed it with Notre Dame people and the lighting company. But if indeed we go with it, it won't be locked into place until the Monday before the game."­(AP). 
Notre Datne soccerteam blasted Valparaiso Univer­sity last night by a 10-0 margin. Dave Miles, Mario Manta, and Brian Berry each had two goals for the Irish. Mark Bittenger, Ed Graham, Rich Hardegen, and Mike Pecoraro each scored a single goal to close out the scoring. The game was shortened by about ten minutes be­cause the referees felt that, the contest was getting out of hand, and they didn't want to see anyone injured. -The Observer. 
lnterhall Deadlines have been announced by the Office of Non-Varsity Athletics. November 10 is the deadline for IH basketball, men and women's, Club basketball, Grad basketball, IH hockey, and open squash. Further information can be obtained by calling NVA at 239-5100. -The Observer. 
Fiery Billy Martin whose Oakland A's slipped to a fifth-place finish just one year after winning the American League West title, was fired as as manager yesterday by team president Roy Eisenhardt. In a statement, Eisenhardt said he did not blame Martin for the team's poor showing this season, but said he felt a change was necessary for the good ofthe A's. In Martin's statement, made by his attorney, Eddie Sapir, he expressed appreciation to Eisenhardt and team owner Walter Haas. Martin led the A's to West title in 19tH, his second year with the club, but watched as it collapsed to this season with a 68-94 record. -(AP ). 
Student hockey tickets may be picked up at the ACC second floor ticket window today and tomorrow from 9 a.m. until4 p.m. Additional student tickets which were not purchased via the summer applications will be on sale on a first-come, first served basis. Students wishing to sit together must present their !D's at the same time. Each student may present a maximum of four I D's. The student hockey season ticket price has decreased since the summer sale. The entire 16-game ticket package now costs S 16. A refund will be issued to those who paid the original price. -The Obsen1er 
The Ofi-Catnpus Hockey team will hold its first practice, as well as a tryout, immediately after break. The sessiori will take place Monday, Nov. 1 from 10:15 to 11:1 5 p.m. Players should bring full equipment, and S3.00 for ice time. All off-campus students are urged to attend. For more information, call Mark Curley at 234­5414. -The Observer 
Mid-American CollegeHealth Association is hold­ing its annual meeting today and tomorrow.The theme for the two­day event to be held in the Center1 for Continuing Education is Sports' Medicine. Students are encouraged to attend any of the lectures or workshops connected with the meeting. For additional information call 239-6691.-The Observer. 
Novice boxing chatnpionship fights were held yesterday afternoon in the boxing room of the ACC. In the 132-lb class Mike Aiello defeated Craig Calaman by TKO. At 140-lbs, Matthew Albano beat Marty Tyrie by TKO. Paul Daiber defeated Greg Arbour in the 1 50-lb class. joe Collins beat Mark Primich at 154.John Dunn defeated Andy Clemency in the 158-lb class. At 162, Ed Grogan got past Dave Odland. Bill Butler won over Dan Walsh as the referee stopped the contest in the 167-lb class. In the Light Heavyweight class Jim Kenney TKO'd Mitchell Nihart, and Greg Foley defeated jim Garvey by TKO. -The Observer. 
INTERHALL WEEK tN REVIEW Week of October 1 0·17, 1982 (continued) 

WOMEN'S FOOTBALL Standings x-1) Breen-Phillips (6-1) 
1) Pasquenlla West (6-1) 3) Farley (5-2) y-4) Pasquenlla East (4-3) 5) Lew1s (4-3) 6) Lyons (1-5) 7) Walsh (1-6) 8) Bad10 (1-6) x-clinched first place by v1rtue of v1ctory over P-W 1n head-to-head compet1t1on y-c11nched fourth and final playoff spot by v1rtue of v1ctory over Lew1s m head-to-head competitiOn 
Last Week's Results Tuesday's Game Pasquenlla East 20, Lyons 0 
Games of Sun. Oct. 17 Breen-Phillips 16, Bad1n 0 Farley 18, Walsh 0 Pasquenlla West 36, Lewis 30 iOT) 
Games of Thurs. Oct. 14 Breen·Ph1ll1ps 8. Lew1s 0 Walsh 22, Lyons 0 Pasquenlla West 26, Pasquenlla East 6 
Highlights: In a p1votal game. P-W defeated Lew1s. 36-30. 1n overt1me to ga1n a playoff berth T1ed 6-6 after regulat1on. the two teams, accordmg to the rules, took seven two-play attempts from the ftve­yard hne to determme the vtctor P-W scored ftve t1mes 1n seven anempts. while Lewts managed only four scores 
Lewts has now been ehmtnated from the playoffs 
Playoff Schedule 

Playoffs Will begm atter October Break Here IS the schedule. with all games to be played on Carher F1eld: 
Thurs. Nov. 4 

Semtftnals Breen-Ph1lllps vs P-E. 6:30pm P-W vs Farley. 7:30pm 
Sun. Nov. 7 Champ1onsh1p Game Winners of Thursdays games play at 7:30pm 
The Observer wtll accept classtfleds Mon­day through Frtday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m However. classtfteds to appear tn the next tssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to tnsertton. All class!f1eds must be prepatd. 
e1ther tn person or tnrougn the matI
Classifieds 
GOING TO 0 HARE?? EugentzHEPL'!I lost my class nng on Saturday! Ann Arbor/DetrOit IS where 1t§ at! 
Black onyx wtth dtamond tn the mtddle, tn­(Actually where he sat!) If you re headed For sale: one round tnp ticket on the I thought that 1t would be a n1ce mght tor a
NOTICES I PERSONALS l
UNITED LIMO D1scount pnces!! Please nde. then 1t ra1ned I hope that a littlethals HLS 83 on the tnstde I can t leave 4 to Ann Arbor /Detrott for break. I d be eter~ call4420 honesty and stncertty helped clear theyears at N 0 wtthout somethmg to show nally grateful for a nde, leavmg Oct 23 
sky I am gu1lty a 1gnorance but certamly and expenses If you can help me out. FOR SALE JVC 30 Watt I Channel not apathy for It!!! Please call3564. or 8055 Reward atter the GMAT s Will share the dnv1ng ASSOCIATE WITH US 
LOST: please call L1sa at 3882 Thanks! Rece1ver & JVC Tape Dick for $240 Total Htcktes and handshakes
NEED CREDIT? HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES, 1-2 YR.
Call 1008, ask for Rod 
BULL Are you ammaJ molesters plannmg on 

Information on rece1vtng Vtsa. Master­POSTGRAD SERVICE PROGRAM BEAUX ARTS Fn Nov 12 A taci<y
card. wtth no credit check Other cards NEED RIDERS FOR FALL BREAK TO WITH SIMPLE CHRISTIAN LIFESTYLE costumed ball to be held 1n BAD TASTE abusmg Bevo over fall break? 8765
avatlable. Free brochure call Personal LANCASTER-LEBANON PA AREA IN USA AND CHILE. CHILE DEADLINE Credit Serv1ce: (602) 946-6203 ext. 3648 CALL JEFF 232-4731 NOV. 4. CALL MARY ANN ROEMER 
Mana 
5293. 
Ansenng my BEAUX ARTS personal byLOST a Se1ko d1g1tat watch Sliver

Fly1ng Fingers typ1ng serv1ce Proofread­Tentattvely need riders for rent-a-car to 
TICKETS 
throwtng a rock through my wmdow as tn
solar battery Please call Larry at 1722 REWARD REWARD REWARD

•ng and editing 1ncluded. 85 cents a page. Philadelphia, or VICinity. teav1ng Sunday SENIORS BAD TASTE (but cons1denng that I live on 
Margaret or Ann 277-1624 atter the GMAT s Call Chns Needles at FOR 1983-85, CONSIDER WORK WITH the 11th floor, Ill g1ve you credit) Thmk 
1240 or 239-7471 and leave a message HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES about 1t Why not make your f~rst date fun LOST: Ad1das sweatpants. dark blue w1th
THE MARTIANS ARE COMINGI WILL PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENN PROGRAM IN CHILE. APPLICATION and exc1t1ng?
white stnpes Dropped somewhere be­

"WAR OF THE WORLDS" PLEASE! I need nde to M1nn Will pay STATE GA TIX. CALL 312-565-5959 DEADLINE NOV. 4TH. CALL MARY 
tween Stepan Center gate and Zahm Hall Religiously yours. 
HALLOWEEN AT 11 :00 PM Dave 3039 COLLECT AND ASK FOR STEVE ANN ROEMER 5293. 
Bob Johnsonlate on 10/17.

ON 88.9 WSND FM LONGLEY. RIDE NEEDED GOING SOUTH!!! NEED HOW ABOUT AMSTERDAM? Interna­
E1leen How s this your very own personalCall me stupid Call me foolish But what I 

SHHHHHH! Don't Tell the old man. RIDE TO OR NEAR LITTLE ROCK HELP! I NEED PENN STATE GAS (2) tional Su1tcase Club Party. Thurs. Nov 4. 
am 1s BROKE! Help a poor 0 C student Hope 1t takes the place of a rose Just 
Wanted Offspnng of the Class of 1960 ARKANSAS! READY TO LEAVE AFTER AND STUDENT TIX (2)! PLEASE HELP 8:30PM SMC Clubhouse Members and 
fmd her grocery money If you found wanted to wtsh you well over your break 1n
If you are a student who is fortunate 3:00pm THURSDAY WILL SHARE FOREIGN RELATIVES FIRST VISIT TO guests welcomed 
$$19 00$$ at the Huddle (or anywhere Boston -and to tell you not to strut your
enough to have had (to have? -oh USUAL CALL 1318 USA & NO BE MEMORABLE ! CALL
between Haggar and So D1n1ng Hall) on stuff too much there Hurry back -Wtll
where ts Don Costello when we need 1674$$ THE MARTIANS ARE ATTACKING!
Monday. 10118. please call Debb1 at 277-m1ss those lnsh sm1les P S How about
h1m?) a dad in the class of 1960. I need Need nde to C1nc1nnat1 tor two W1ll share WAR OF THE WORLDS d1nner my place -Fnday -you abd4820
your help the usual Can leave Thursday or Fnday Need Penn. State Gas W1ll pay cold hard HALLOWEEN AT 11:00 PM kathy MJC 277-0955 
My column tor the Class of 1960 in the Call Dave 8810 cash 8539 WSNDFM 889
LOST: White folder w1th Observer logo on "Notre Dame MagaZine.. is already ter­

front cover and wh1te legal pad 1ns1de MEG
rific, but it needs a new shot in the arm. as R1de needed to Ch1cago or area GOLLY JEEPERS! I need two PENN GOING TO O'HARE SATURDAY 
Also green Sa1nt Marys sp~ral notebook WINTER.SPRING, SUMMER OR FALL,
it were. (Hinsdale). can leave Fn 12:30 Call Jeff STATE GAs, b1g brother would like to see MORNING? 
of news class notes Lost on Fnday the ALL YOU VE GOT TO DO IS CALL AND
Your stories about your dad's 2257 a game w1th Pop Call DAVE at 1165 DON'T WANT TO PAY RIDICULOUS 
15th Help! Anyone w1th 1nfo call Margaret ILL COME RUNNING HAVE A GREAT
memories of Notre Dame sent to me will UNITED LIMO FARE? at (284)4316 or leave message at Ob­BREAK WINK. WINK. NUDGE. NUDGE.
help the column. Now. ·makey-up IS Riders wanted to Eastern N.Y.-Wes­NEED PENN ST GAs BIG TIME! $$$ CALL GREG AT x1421 
server off1ce (239-5303) SAY NO MORE. SAY NO MORE
okay, too. though most of our class guys tern Mass. along 1-90, leaving Friday CALL 1627 LOVE. P-BUTT
,{...

are really class guys and didn't resort to monrlng. If Interested, call Rico at ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS' Elections LOST: Ad1das sweatpants. dark blue w1th
that sort of thing. 8648. w111 pay any amount necessary for two are the f~rst Tuesday atter break At that HAPPY BIRTHDAY!
white stnpes Dropped somewhere be­

So, when you go home on break, eliCit Penn State GA t1ckets Call Paul at 272-time 1t w111 be to fate to do anyth1ng about a story or two from the old man, jot it down 
tween Stepan Center gate and Zahm Hall MARY COLLEEN IS THE BIG 19 
DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO BUF­5744 or leave a note 1n the "'L box at the absentee ballots. Wh1le you are home, and ma1f rt to me. And hey. g1ve me a FALO AREA FOR BREAKCALL 8703 IF Law School contact your LOCAL election board tor
late on 10/17 lffound, please call8917 Happy Birthday Mary! Have a GREA'( day!
break, I don·t need to hear the 'hot bowling YOU CAN SPARE THE ROOM AND USE the proper procedure If you re not gotng batr story again or how he dreSsed you in THE CASH NEEDED DESPERATELY! 2 g a tiX to home. call or contact them to get your bal­
Thanks Alot. A POl the penn st game The earlier you calf the 
NO d1-dees. And if your dad is one of the lot Remember. VOTE the ch01ce IS You Party An1mals prov1ded ones who owns one of those car horns. IL--._FO_R_R_EN_T__.I RIDER needed to New Orleans tor break more deluxe your bux call matt 277-4573 yours!!! 
some ktnd of servtee! 

leave that out too We don't want to em· Leaving S~t call 5329 smc The halh•mers from Grace 
barrass him. Ouizztng your mom tS fatr NEED TICKETS FOR PENN ST OR V1v1an play, however. SeriOusly folks, send NEED 1 RIDER TO SYRACUSE NY PITT GAME CALL GOODILL AT 232-We re gonna m1ss you all 185 lbs of HELPI
N1ce furn1shed house 2 blocks to N.D Need ride to Northeast South Bend for
these great stories to: Bob Keeley; 10532 AREA FOR BREAK Leav1ng Fnday 4731 you!!! Have a great break. and don t eat 
277-3604 or 288-0955 Fall Break! Haven't seen Mom since
S Bell; Chicago, II 60643 And P S. Don·t noon Call Cheryl 6354 ALSO NEED too much! Love ya! 
tell h1m. This will be our little secret, okay? RIDERS COMING BACK TO NO FROM I NEED PITT.PENN St GAs $$$CALL
Student Housing -Clean -Safe freshman year! Can leave Friday at 
PHILA. PAAREA BRENDAN 3207 Be~ng here late at n1te ts a btl exhausttng. 
noon. Will share driving and expenses.
$100/mo 291-1405

TYPING: EX-LEGAL SECRETARY 272-but there are a few benefits Have a good Calf Mary, 555-4335. 
5337 I need the BEST 6 GAs tor Penn State break all you ..smash1ng & sh1ney, not to 
Furn. eff1ciency $100 Also 1 bedroom Must be 15 yd line or better Call me I mentton cymbly fun fnends Pttt here I LAUREL-You 1mpersonal human be1nghave the $ Steve-I 061 come (Paul, can someone from -have a HAPPY BIRTHDAY over break 

! 
Loogootee surv1ve 1n such a place?) M W1ll th1nk of you on the 25th-for a couple NEED 2 Penn State GAs and 1 student hx of m1nutes Love -Kevtn
~::~~·~:::~~~· ~-~;::,;::"' I IL__ _
F_O_R_S_A_L_E __,\ 
for fam1ly $$ Please call Nancy 4449 Dear Colleen. (SMC) Why d1dn t you return my call? 
MICHAELJ 

love, Far be 1t for me to be 1ntelhgent? 0000 
_ USED BOOKS Bought. Sold, Searched NEED 2 PAIR PITT GAs PHIL 1764 George that hurts!! Well. I can deal w1th 1t!! MayERASMUS BOOKS Tues-Sun. 12·6 the Force/Tour be w1th you ­1027 E Wayne One Block South of Wanted 4 G A Penn St tiCkets: Will pay Until Halloween ­FOUND: Anne Klein change purse Calf Help South Bend Juliet wants to see her Eddy-Jefferson Intersection $:calf Steve at233-2651 or 239-5845 Hey you Carroll Hall DUFUS-Your cohort1n Ieavy SituattonsMilwaukee Romeo If you could g1ve me a 
3889 Sorry about your calc test Don t worry
ride to Milwaukee on Oct 23 attar the FOR SALE:JVC 30 WATT/CHANNEL 
I need Penn Stale tickets! Student or GA though. my mom Still loves you I st1ll th1ni< To· Cindy. Joanne. Annte. Katte. Kathy.GMATs, rd appreciate 1t! Will share the RECEIVER AND JVC TAPE DECK FOR
FOUND: 1981 class ring 1n Math & Comp Melissa x 1308 you need some sympathy -so, Mr Colleen. Sus1e. Mary Nel. Gretchen. Bulld1ng orange stone calf Gina 6553 at usual. II you re Milwaukee bound. please 24000 Moosey says h1 Where s Joe fd? Wed 
Cheryl. Mary. and ESPECIALLY Carol­212 Lewis For Sale· 1 Penn State Student T1cket better f1nd h1m see you ton1ght When you re down and troubled and you calf Julie a: 3882 
Reliable car for cheap! A none explos1ve Call Laura at 4624 Love, 
need some love and care just call out myLOST PENTAX 35mm camera. type 74 P1nto Stat1on Wagon. runs great.
IF YOU NEED A RIDE TO LEXINGTON: sw name Ill come runmng You ve got a In Green Field area Help! Calli025. 1deal for school. only $400 J B 283-8286 FOR SALE: 67th row seats to see RUSH 
11 

KENTUCKY. CALL DAN AT 277-3832 friend -Thanks for be1ng such spec1al Call1195 
lnends!! Love. Scoop 

_j 
--------~----------~----------------------------.---~-------.----~--.-------~--~----~------~--------------------------­
, The Observer 
continuedfrom page 16 
awoke in Game 5 after going 0-for­16, and who finished with a Series­high eight RBI. 
The lights also shone on Hendrick, who had nine hits in the Series and drove in the winning run last night, capping the Cardinals' ral­ly in the sixth. 
They shone brightly on Dane lorg, whose nine hits as a designated hit­ter tied two other players for the World Series record. And they shone brightly on Herzog. 
These Cardinals inevitably will be compared to the Gas House Gang, St. Louis' 1934 World Series champions featuring Dizzy Dean, Ducky Med­wick and Pepper Martin. 
This was not a mean, spikeshigh team like that outfit of 38 years ago -Herzog had called this a "lady's game" with no brushbacks and no beanballs -but the Cardinals nevertheless were world champions for the first time since 1967, when they beat the Boston Red Sox in seven games. 
For the Brewers, who led the major leagues this season with 216 homers, it may have been a case of teasing fate once too often. 
They needed to win in the final 
Thursday, October 21, 1982 --page 13 
...Series 
day ot the regular season 111 Hal­timore to clinch their first AL east title. They had to stage a history­making comeback from an 0-2 deficit in the AL playoffs against California to get to the Series. And they did. 
But even under the gentle hand of Manager Harvey Kuenn and with the power of men like Robin Yount. Ben Oglivie and Cecil Cooper, the Brewers could not beat fate a third time. 
The Brewers trailed 1-0 as St. Louis clawed for a run in the fourth inning but caught up on Andujar's first pitch in the fifth. 
Oglivie hit a drive ino the lower deck in right field, and there were murmurs of doubt among the vocal crowd of53,'723. 
Was Andujar really fit to pitch' With one out in the seventh inning of Game 3, Milwaukee's Ted Sim­mons hit a one-hopper otl" Andujar's right shin, forcing the pitcher out of the game after giving up only three hits. 
Before last night's game, Andujar, a tough Dominican, had said: "no big deal, I no get killed." 
He was, indeed, very much alive. In the sixth inning, the Brewers took a 3-1 lead. scoring one run on a 

throwing error on Andujar and an­other on a sacrifice fly by Cecil Cooper. But the Cardinals came roaring back in the bottom of th in­ning to retake the lead and chase Milwaukee starter Pete Vuckovich. 
With one out, Ozzie Smith singled 
and Lonnie Smith followed with a 
double, bringing in left-hander Bob 
McClure, who had saved Games 4 
and 5. 
Gene Tenace pinch-hit for Ken Oberkfell and walked, loading the bases. Mike Ramsey ran for Tenace, a star of Oakland's championship teams in the earl y 1970s. then Her­nandez singled in both Smiths to tie the score as the crowd -many in Cardinal red and white -ro~-e to its feet. Hendrick then singled in Ram­sey for the go-ahead run. 
Then they turned things over to Sutter, who had two saves and a vic­tory in the Series, and the Cardinals added two insurance runs i.n the eighth on RBI singles by Porter and Steve Braun. 
The crowd was on its feet as Sutter worked to Gorman Thomas with two outs in the ninth and the bases empty. The count on 3-2, and Thomas -who had 39 home runs this season. fouled off three pitches before striking out swinging. 

CTHE NEWCHRYSLER CORPORATION 

Cardinal fans had fun in the rain Tuesday night sending a message to their American League counterparts in Milwaukee. ­(AP Photo). 
• 

The 1983 Pentastar Challenge Calendar. 
A chance to win a scholarship, Chrysler product and more. 
If you thought The New Chrysler 
Corporation was something different from other car makers, we're out to prove that you're right. We've developed the "Pentastar Challenge" 
as a small, but deserving tribute to American ingenuity and intellegence. The Riddle 
The challenge in the calendar is an intellectual one. Within the story and illustrations, we've woven an intricate pattern of clues in five different areas of academics; Music, Math, Computer Science. Chemistry and Literature. There's nothing physically hidden or buried. All you need to unravel the conundrums is a fairly sharp pencil and a very sharp mind. 
The Reward 

If you are the first to have solved any one of the five riddles, you'll be awarded a $5,000 scholarship, a $5,000 cash grant to your school, your choice of a 1983 Tur~smo or Charger to 
drive for a year and a gold Pentastar Medallion. There are also 100 second place prizes of silver medallions. The official rules are on the back of the calendar. 
The Reason 

We think you'll enjoy the Pentastar Challenge Calendar because it's functional, attractive and entertaining. Maybe you should also know that through special arrangement with your 
College Store, we're helping ·-......-... -~ ...-. 
to support the operation of this very important part of your campus. Is Chrysler getting out of the car business and into the calendar business? No. But at $4.98 maybe you'll be impressed with Chrysler enough to someday look at our cars. For us, that's the challenge. 


r 
-----~~-~-~ ----~---~-------­
The Observer Thursday, October 21, 1982 -page 14 
Vote for your 
favorite! 
.. 
In The 

Aspirin Rough Man 
' 

bySven by David J. Johnson fldams 
Pt..E/15E-; ALL o F' 



HOI lOOK AT ~LL 

THOSE: FANS 1'1/AVINq
Fate 
IHfll\ ARMS 
DOwN· FlfLD/
' 

byT.J. by Photius 
Wrobel 



(Tear Out)
--------------------,1 
CHECK ONE: I I I I
IN THE ROUGH 
I 

NOBODY'S PREFECT I -1
SPIKE'S WORLD ...... I
CDI 
~I

ASPIRIN MAN 
ol 

~ 
D FATE =-1
-I 

Please drop ballot-in box. 1 
Editor's Note: Here it is, the first ever Ob­server cartoon runoffelection. Here's your chance to let us know which cartoons will continue to run on a daily basis and which will get the axe. Ballot boxes are located in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's dining halls and in LaFortune Student Center. just put your 'x' on the attached coupon and drop it offin one ofthe ballot boxes. Please voteforjust one cartoon . 
.. 



••• HELP / l'?l sAVE 
~sPit.! #I'M~. 
sHoT 
IHOS[ ARt:NY 





Ihe~crer====================================== 
~~~~~===========================T=h=u=r=s=d=ay='=O=c=t=o=b=er==2=1,=1=9=8=2===p=a=g=e=1==5 
Doonesbury 

~--------------~ 


WA1(H TillS... 
1\INNGl 

Aspirin Man 
f/?..IDAY I"NRII!#G !# cus 11/AIG !IALL. 
o,V., ~en G(J, OUR. FAT~!!., ~o~Ho ;'11{7, •• 

The Daily Crossword 
©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 10121/82 All Rights Reserved 
Garry Trudeau 
Campus 
•12: 
1 5 p.m. -Faculty Forum Open Discus­sion, "University Governance at Notre Dame: A Critique,", Prof. Kenneth R Thompson and Prof. Edward A. Goerner, Library Lounge •-!:30 p.m.-Goethe Commenorative Lecture, "Goethes 'Die Leiden des jungen Werthers"' Prof. Ulrich Fulleborn, Faculty Lounge, Memorial Library •-l:30 p.m. -Biology Lecture, "An Ecosystem Approach to Nutrient Cycling and Forest Manage­ment," Dr. Gene E. Likens, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•6: 
1 5 p.m. -Portage Manor Visitation, Meet at Main Circle 

•6:30 
p.m. -Informational Meeting, for stu­dents interested in spending their sophomore year in the Ireland Program 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting of the Ladies of Notre Dame, Library Lounge ., p.m. -Puppet Show, "The Ramayana for Shadow Puppets," Clubhouse at Saint Mary's, Sponsored by Students of Arthropology Course, Free Admission 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "What is Democratic Socialism?" Penny Schantz, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by ND/SMC D.S.A. 




T.V. Tonight 

David]. Adams 
6p.m. 16 . 22 28

ALL. RIG HTJ WHO 


34 
6:30p.m. 16 22 28 34 
7p.m. 16 22 
28 
34 
7:30p.m. 28 
8:30p.m. 16 

27 Aramis' 
friend 28 Extort 29 Bury 30 Family 
member 31 Mr. Zimbal· ist 33 Wheel holders 35 Part of YMCA: abbr. 37 Take to jail 
38 City of Romulus and Remus 
39 Robust 

ACROSS 32 Town in 1 Mall unit Italy 5 Some exams 33 Compile 
10 Take-34 "-body view meet a.•." 14 Roof 36 Zany feature quartet 15 Wide·bladed 40 Help! sword 41 Functions 16 Ice-cream 42 Top pilots 
holder 43 Raged 17 Zany trio 45 Grave 20 -Joaquin 47 $100 bills 21 Vaticinator 48 Residence 22 Takes on 49 Encourages 23 Airmail in wrong· 24 Gyrate doing 26 Cried out 52 Reserve 29 Fancy 53 Links 
centerpiece letters 56 Zany single 60 Russian 
sea 61 Came up 62 Ineffectual 63 Floribunda, 
for one 64 Lama land 65 Namein 
autos 
DOWN 1 Scenery 2 Laughter 3 Oast 4 -diem 5 Seaport in 
Belgium 6 Bulldozed 7 Short form, 

Wednesday's Solution 8 ~;:~~~rt 

sea god 
9 Rialto sign 10 Athrob 11 Activist 12 Concerning 13 Snafu 18 Shrink's 
phrase 19 Yen 23 Rangy 24 Practices 
for a bout 25 Dinero unit 26 Pipis· trelles 

44 Sonnet part 45 Part of 
USSR 

46 Precursor 48 Ship area 49 Open a bit 50 Galoot 51 Slaughter 
of baseball 52 Smugone 53 Strip 
54 Alumnus, 
for short 55 Seeks info 57 Bowler, 
for one 58 "Exodus" hero 59 Couple 
NewsCemer 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report M0 A•s•H 
family feud Tic Tac Dough Straight Talk fame Magnum PI Joanie Loves Chachi All Creatures The Star of the family Cheers Simon and Simon Too Close for Comfort Wild America It Takes Two Hill Street Blues Knots Landing 20/20 Odyssey NewsCemer 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 The Dick Ca,·ett Show Tonight Show Quincy and McCloud ABC News Nightline Captioned ABC News Vegas Late Night with David Letterman 
The saga of a 6 month old domer. 
9p.m. 16 22 28 34 
10p.m. 16 22 28 34 
10:30 p.m. 16 22 28 34 
llp.m. 28 11:30 p.m. 16 
B •
rtan. 


CHECK IT OUT!!! 
CLONE 
IN CONCERT 
St. 8t-Sunday, Oct. 31 9:30-12:30 Cost: J1/person ALL WELCOffiE!I 



~------~­

---~---~---~~-­

The Cardinals, seen here celebrating a previous victory, badfurther causeforjubilation after they 
PorterMVP 
Cards defeat Brewers,take Series 
By DAVIDA. STANG 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team completed its fall season by sweeping Saint Mary's Tuesday, 9-0, on the Angela Tennis Courts. 
The win upped the Irish record to an impressive 8-2, while dropping the Belles' to 5-3. The Irish were led by No. 1 singles player Laura Lee, who defeated Deb­by Laverie 6-4, 6-3. Notre Dame's Mary Colligan. playing at No. 2, beat Maureen Fitzgerald 6-3, 6-0. Lisa LaFratta overcame the rain, which forced play indoors, and No. 3 Ann Huber ofSaint Mary's, 6-1, 6-0. 
Playing well at No. 4 singles for the Irish was Cathy Schnell, who downed Heather Temofeew, 6-2, 6­-l. Camille Cooper had a difficult match with the Belles' Kristin Beck at No. S. but she held out for a tough, --s, 6-:-, 6-"-1 win. Freshman Greta Roemer wasted little time in her easy. 6-I, 6-1 victory over Kim Kaegi in the final singles match ofthe day. 
All of Tue~day's douhle~ matches consisted of I0-game pro-sets be­cause of the limited amount ofspace indoors. Susie Panther, who has played only doubles lately, and, I;Jtr partner Laura Lee. were victorious at 'lo. 1 doubles. I()..t ovt:r Laverie/Fitzgerald. At No. 2, the exciting team of Roemer/Schnell defeated Saint Mary's Huber/Temofeew, 10-2. 
Saint Mary's No. 3 team of Kristin Beck and Allison Pellar played well, but they fell to Camille Cooper and Louisa DeMello, 10-8. 
"A lot of good tennis was being played,"said Coach Sharon Petro. "I am very pleased." However, the injury-prone Irish couldn't escape without adding a new name to their list of walking wounded. Greta Roemer was the victim this time, as she reinjured her ankle, needing it heavily taped during her second match. 
Petro was understandably "frustrated" with the weather and with the injuries that have plagued her team this fall. "I'm glad we finally have a rest," said Petro. "The girls now will have a break until we get back on the courts in December, and during that period we will work on conditioning and strength training." 
The team members also are happy that their fall season is over. and that they have a well-deserved break. 
The women's fall campaign has been a learning experience which will serve them well when they meet their tough :'1/CAA Division I foes next spring. 
stadium, Cardinal players mobbed the ace reliever at the pitcher's mound and fans poured onto the field despite the attempts ofsecurity to hold them back. 
When the lights were turned on at Busch Stadium last night, they shone on a new era of baseball in St. Louis, which had been in 12 previous World Series. 
And the lights shone brightly on Hernandez, whose sleeping bat 
See SERIES, page 13 

Volleyball team beats Belles at Saint Mary's 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
Last night, the Saint Mary's vol­leyball team had its counterparts from Notre Dame right where it wanted them -on its home court, but the superior Irish talent overcame the pumped-up Belles by scores of I S-9, 15-9, I S-3. 
The match may be the last be­tween the two schools because the Irish, who moved up to Division I competition this year, are com­mitted to playing more Division I schools. Only if they need a "filler" game will they be able to schedule Saint Mary's, a Division Ill team. 
The outcome showed once and for all that Notre Dame has overcome its jinx against Saint Mary's. After being dominated by the Belles for two years, the Irish have coasted to two easy victories this year. 
Both teams entered the match without the services of important· players. Notre Dame was missing one of its co-captains, Josie Mater­nowski, while Saint Mary's had to play without one of its more talented players, Ann Boutton. The difference was that the Irish had a team full of talented players to f111 the gap, while the Belles were lack­ing in depth. 
Early in the match, Saint Mary's tried to make up for the lack in talent with inspired play. It jumped out to a quick lead and hung tough while Notre Dame made some errors and played poorly. The score was tied 7­7 in the first game before the Irish t1nally pulled away to win. 
The second game was similar to the first. The Belles took advantage of a Notre Dame service error and moved out to a 4-0 lead. The Irish straightened themselves out, however, and took a big lead. They fought off a Saint Mary's comeback att<::mpt and took the game. 

It was ;...;-oarent in the third and final game that ,•,c: Irish had worn down the Belles. LJ<. 'Oite making some more service er.or~. thev never let Saint Mary's get anything going. 
"We won, but we didn't play well," said Notre Dame coach Sandy Vanslager. "The girls were very slow. The passing was mediocn; and they played too conservatively. 
"The girls just lacked the foot­work to get to the ball and thev didn't watch the ball consistently."· 
Nevertheless, there was some ex­cellent play on both teams. Marv Viola and Beth Kieber played excei­lent games for the Belles. For the Irish, Robin Israel and Karen Bauters made some impressive spikes, while Mary McLaughlin passed the ball well. 
"Mary McLaughlin has been pas­sing cou.sistently" ·:~!~ Vc::1~lager. "She played the strongest as far as passing was concerned. Also Karen did a good job at the net." 
This is especially a good sign for the Irish because this match was Bauters' first action in two-and-a-half weeks after she suffered a severely sprained ankle in a tournament. 
The victory gives the Irish a 9-I record in dual meets this year. 
IRISH ITEMS -The team goes on its longest road trip of the year this weekend when it travels to Philadel­phia. It will compete in the Penn In­vitational at the University of 
Pennsylvania on Friday· and Satur­day. On Monday, it will travel to Vil­lanova to take on the host Wildcats at 6 p.m. 
ST t.OUIS (AP) -The St. Louis Cardinals, molded by Manager Whitey Herzog in his own feisty image and driven by the persistent bats of Keith Hernandez and George Hendrick, ended 1 S years of frustra­tion last night by beating the Mil­
waukee  Brewers  6-3  to  win  
baseball's 79th World Series.  
The  Cardinals  won  their  ninth  

Series and the fourth straight by a National League team with three runs in the sixth inning of the decisive seventh game, on RBI hits by Hernandez and Hendrick and the seven-hit pitching of Joaquin An­dujar and Bruce Sutter. 
The Cardinals -a replica of Her­zog's three American League West Division champions in Kansas City, with perhaps a little less power, pounded I5 hits. 
They were the Mississippi river­boat gamblers, unafraid to risk the present for the future either in the front office or on the field. Eight of the 25 players on the World Series roster were not on te team when Herzog became manager before the 
19H I season, including Andujar and catcher Darrell Porter, voted the Series Most Valuable Player after going 8-for-28 with one home run, two doubles, and five RBI's. 
Perbaps the most daring of them all was Andujar, who came back from a painful leg injury to pitch seven innings for his second victory of the Series. . 
He was not perfect, but he had help, and he made the big pitches when it was necessary. Sutter pitched the last two innings for his second save. 
Sutter retired Gorman Thomas for the last out on a strikeout with the crowd shouting "Bruce, Bruce." As fireworks exploded over the 
Irish tennis team beats SMCto end fall season 
Atmid-season 
Voters announce special aUJards 
As is custom, the Bottom Ten voters gathered for 
their annual Mid-season Chicken Fricasse and Awards 
Banquet. This year, the sumptuous spread was served 
up at an anonymous refugee camp in suburban Beirut. 
A star-studded dais applauded as various award 
recipients stepped to the lectern to accept the coveted 
hardware. 

Herewith is a recap of the fabulous event. 
The Roy "Wrong-Way" Riegel Memorial Small Col­lege Award went to Wilkes College in Wilkes-Barre, Pa. In the late 1960's the school won 26 football games in a row. Then they saw the error of their ways. Currently, Wilkes has the longest losing streak in Division Ill -14 games. 
The Amazing Kreskin "Watch the watch" Award 
went to the Eastern Michigan Hurons. The team ­
which has the longest losing streak in Division I at 24 
games -employed a hypnotist to help them out. Since 
the good doctor joined the staff, EMU has lost four 
games in a row. 
Bottom Ten voters love the occult. It gives them the 
constant hope that a winning program can always be on 
the brink ofdisaster. That's a comforting feeling. lienee, 
another magician has an award named in his honor. 
The Harry Blackstone, Jr. "Watch me pull a rabbit out of my hat" Award goes to tiny Illinois Benedictine. After three quarterbacks were felled by injury, student-coach Joe Pudlo got the start against Loras. Pudlo was 9-of-21 for 74 yards, but IBC won, 27-10. Sorry, Joe. 
The Paul Bunyan "Can't see the forest tor the trees" Award was awarded to West Texas State. Last week they threw for ..f03 yards against Florida. They lost :-7-1-l. 
The David Letterman "More fun than humans should 
be allowed to have" Award had a familiar ring. It went to 
Florida Coach Charlie Pell. After that same game, he 
said, "J don't particularly get any thrill out ofa score like 
that." 
Speaking of scores ... One of the highlights of the night was the presentation of the Tony Bennett "I left my heart in San Francisco" Award. This season, the proud recipient was Penn Slate Coach Joe Paterno. It seems that Paterno came out ofthe closet -so to speak -after his team's -!2-21 loss at Alabama. "You really don't get to know your squad until you get away togeth­er to a strange place," Paterno said. 

Bottom Ten 

One of the big topics of discussion at the banquet began when the scores from across the country were reported. The wire services reported the final s~ore ­East Central University 52, Northwest Oklahoma 47. Voters battled long and hard, wagering huge sums of money. But the question was never answered: Just where is East Central University? 
Many voters plan this week to attend one of the most long-awaited games in decades. 
Northern Illinois, the team that broke Northwes­tern's losing streak, has their sights set on another upset. They travel to Eastern Michigan this week, and could stop the new losingest streak in college. 
Tht: latest "(iame of the Century" promises to be a Bottom Ten classic. Here are the post-celebratory rankings: I) Oregon (0-6) 
2) Memphis State (0-6) 
3) Eastern Michigan (0-6) 4) Rice (0-6) 5) Richmond (0-6) 
6) Kent State (0-6) 7) Virginia (0-5) 

8) Michigan State (0-5) 
9) Texas Southern (0-6-I) 10) Kentucky (0-5-1) 
Also receiving votes: Purdue (1-5) Colorado (I-4.1) 
John DeLorean (0-220) 
Quote of the Week: 
Dan \1arino, Pitt 4uarterback, after he threw onlv three interception~ against Temple: "For the t1r~t tim~ this season, I had a real feel for the game." 
----~----~--~~----~~~~--------------------------------------------------------~ 


