-------·-------------------------------------------~~--------.---------~------..~~--------..~------------~------~----~--~ 

VOL. XVII, NO. 62 the indqwndl·nt ~tudclll Ill'\\ ~p.qwr ~t·n ing notre dame and ~a lilt man·~ TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3o, 1982 

staffmembers. 
In addition. a do-it-yourself for­LOS ANGELES (AP) -President weekend, and "consultations ~re mula is included in the report so that Reagan drew the applause of urban continuing." universities can compute their own leaders yesterday for a proposed Reagan's message to the National figures, and compare their findings five-cent boost in the gasoline tax, League of Cities annual convention with those of the ARL. and promised the tina! installment of was to stand behind his long-range 
Besides providing statistical data his cuts in individual income taxes economic recovery program and ex­Other items debated included and rankings, the ARL report would have a "most dramatic im­pect little in the way of immediate 
extending University Club member­provides a barometer for measuring pact" in pulling the nation to relief. He urged them to reject, ship to seniors and graduate stu­overall trends in libraries through­economic recoven·. meanwhile, "temporary Band-aids dents, increasing the number of out the nation. In its 1980-81 report. But Reagan said he has made no and placebos." 
telephones in the library, purchas­the ARL observed that the vast decision on whether to seek a six­But he won applause when he ing a large-screen television for the majority of the libraries participat­month acceleration of the ten per­promised to move quickly on the LaFortune ballroom, increasing the ing in its survey are plagued with cent withholding cut due in July. gas-tax increase, which would be number of video games in the game "increasing expenditures, with a "We're going to talk about it" with 
spent, in large measure, rebuilding 
room while removing some pool greater proportion of expenditures congressional leaders Tuesday mass tran~it systems. The federal tables, and removing or repairing allocated to serials; decreasing num­( today ), he said. gasoline tax is now 'i cents per gal­the silver posts around campus. bers of volumes added each year; GOP leaders told Reagan he lon. 
doesn't have the votes for a speedup 
On the income tax question, of the final phase of the income tax 
Reagan said the last phase of his cut. But White House spokesman 
three-year plan will go a long way Larry Speakes said Reagan talked to
U.S. proves Soviet use 
See TAX, page 3
key GOP members over the 
ofchemical weapons 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The ad­Kabul. He declined to say how either ministration said yesterday it has mask came into l'.S. hands. physical evidence, including a gas Also displayed at the brieting mask pulled from the head ofa dead were photographs of a Laotian Soviet soldier. that the Soviet Union H':\lnng boy who was suffering 
has used chemical weapons against severe burns and blistering follow­guerrillas in Afghanistan since 1980. ing a "yellow rain" attack in late The State Department said it also :\larch or early April. The boy, who 
has reports that the Soviets have survived following treatment, was been contaminating the water photographed by a l'.S. official at a supplies used by Afghan resistance refugee camp in northeast Thailand. forces, inflicting many deaths. The total killed in chemical and 
The department asserted, too, toxin attacks is more than 6,000 in 
that Moscow is continuing to supply Laos, :3.000 in Afghanistan and I,000 chemical and toxin weapons for use in Cambodia, oftkials said. by its Vietnamese and Laotian allies They vowed to continue seeking in Cambodia and Laos, with even a worldwide publicity over the issue, few attacks in Thailand. in an attempt to pressure the Soviets 
The evidence from Afghanistan in­to cease the alleged practice. But cludes two Soviet ga.o; masks bearing Robert Dean, another State Depart­traces of toxins which cause blister­ment otkial, said only three nations ing, nausea, vomiting and other Canada. Great Britain and symptoms, the department said. Thailand -have joined the Cnited 
One of the two masks was taken States in condemning the actions so from the head of a dead Soviet sol­tar. dier. who was killed during a Soviet He said the Soviets deny using the attack on guerrillas in which toxic weapons. "We have raised this weapons were used, said Gary repeatedly with the Soviets, and Crocker of the State Department. their response is to deny it," he said. 
He said the second mask, which was displayed at a news hrietlng, was See SOVIETS, page 4 obtained in "a special operation" in 

ByTOMMOWLE 
News Staff 
The Student Senate narrowly passed a resolution last night encouraging students to mail twelve cents to Student Government to help initiate a "Save the Buses" cam­paign. 
The resolution. passed by an 8-6 margin, is aimed at meeting the S824.75 in damages done to the three TRANSPO buses during a homecoming welcome for the foot­ball players after the Pittsburgh vic­tory, as requested by Vice President for Student Affairs Father John Van Wolvlear. Any excess will be placed in a trust fund for future damages "should the football team ever again return from an away game vic­toriou~." states the resolution. 
Lloyd Burke, Student Body Presi­dent, earlier suggested that the bill should he charged to the athletic department rather than to the Stu­dent Senate. He further expressed his incredulity that with "at least one million dollars in television money this year, they're arguing about S82-i.75." 
In further action, the Senate up­held the University of Southern California's victory last Saturday, in spite of the fact that "television replays clearly indicated" that USC had fumbled before their tina! touchdown. 
A resolution also passed which re­quests "the administration's permis­sion to pursue the idea of installing cable television into each hall's television room and LaFortune's Chautauqua Ballroom." Permission is needed before cable companies will give estimates. 
A resolution calling for "the pur­chase of permanent and immobile benches and picnic tables around campus" for placement around the lakes, dining halls, and quads also wa.~ approved by a unanimous vote. 
Library ranked low 
Director calls report 'meaningless' 
By CAROL CAMP anJ little or no increase in overall the University's overall budget, and SeniorStaffReporter size 
private donations and gifts. Accord· According to Miller, it is "more ing to ~Iiller, the library's present Notre Damt.· Memorial Library important to see how we're doing in endowment is approximately S6.2 million and is primarily used for
director Robert Miller has dis­terms of the perceived needs ofstu­counted the significance of the dents and faculty -in that respect 
book and journal acquisition. In addition, the library was
1980-81 Association of Research we're doing reasonably well." recently awan!ed ib Lirgest private
Libraries (ARL) report which ranks He said that these perceived gift, the Ryan gift, which will be used
_Notre Dame's library 96th overall needs included the necessity of create a
out of 11 :3 libraries involved in the increasing the library's selection of to Ere arts colection in survey. current foreign literature and the 
honor of Irene O'Brien Ryan, who is the wife ofTrustee Emeritusjohn T.
The ARL report describes its tin­number of current journals availabe Ryan, Jr. Also. a portion o~· the funds
dings as "a means of providing sum­for student use. Another improve­will be allocated toward the auto ':Ia·
mary chara<.·terization, permitting ment which Miller hopes to make is 
quantitative comparisons of ARL upgrading the quality ofinstruction t lion effort. especially in the creation of a computerized data bank for the
libraries, individually and as a group, that students receive in the use of with other academic libraries." the library during their freshman 
main library and ,he six other libraries on campus.
Miller said that the report's tigures vear. 
-The most urgenty needed im­Revenue for library improve­
are "meaningless" because they fail to consider such factors as the type provement, however. is in the ments was also provided by the of a univerS-ity's graduate facilities 
library's cataloguing system. which Campaign for Notre Dame, which Miller intends has resulted in eight million dollars
( ie., medical schools or law to "fullv automate" for use in the automation effort.
schools), the size of the school's stu­over the course of the next five dent body, and the under­
years. A the-year plan for library :\1iller acknowledged that, with automation was proposed in respect to automation and the effort
graduate/graduate ratio. The ARL bases its overall ranking January. 1980, and is presently being to improve foreign journals and developed. serials, "We're not what we should
of university libraries upon ten criteria, including: the total number 
These improvements are being be, but we're doing better becau .se of volumes in the library; the num­funded by three primary sources, we're concentrating on the im­ber of volumes which have been ac­
including the library's endowment. provement o(specitk areas." quired during the evaluation period; the number of microfilms and cur­rent serials available for use; total ex­penses for materials, binding, 
Urban leaders support
salaries, and operations; and the number of persons employed as professional and non-professional 
gasoline tax increase 
r-----------------~--------------------~~----------~---­
News Brie/§ 
Hy The ()bsen•er and The Associated Press 
A Cavanaugh sophomore was arrested early Saturday morning in connection with a burglary at the Great American Hot Dog Stand, 1015 Corby Blvd. The student is being held at the county jail on a preliminary charge ofburglary. The inci­dent took place about 3 a.m. Saturday according to a jail spokesman. Entry was gained through a front window. No loss was reported. ­The Observer 
A young woman was raped at gunpoint early Sunday morning while hitchhiking on U.S. 31, according to Notre Dame Security and Information Services. The victim was hitchhiking north of Douglas Rd. and east ofJuniper Rd. She described the assailant as a white male, about 5-foot 8-inches in height, medium build, with a beard and mustache. He picked the victim up in a dark blue or black four-wheel drive pick-up truck with Michigan plates. The woman was treated at SaintJoseph County Medical Center and released later that morning. The Saint Joseph County Sheriffs Office is investigat­ing the case. -The Observer 
Notre Dame Security is enforcing a no-parking policy for Green Field. All cars currently parked on the field must be moved immediately. Rex Rakow, assistant director of security, said that some parking had been allowed on the field during the football season. Violators will be ticketed and cars left in the field will be towed. -The Obsen1er 
Budget Director David Stockman'slatest 
estimate shows a budget deficit for the current fiscal year ofbetween 
SIMO billion and S190 billion, higher than any previous administra­
tion forecast, government sources said yesterday. Sources said 
Stockman's estimate, already presented to President Reagan and his 
closest White House aides, assumes an economy expanding at the 
rate of about three percent next year. Without the recovery, the 
deficit presumably could balloon even higher. These sources, who 
asked not to be identified by name, also said Stockman's estimates 
show deficits rising to between Sl85 billion and $190 billion for the 
next fiscal year, and over S200 billion in 1985. For the years beyond, 
deficits of S250 billion or more are likely, sources familiar with 
Stockman's estimates said. Thus, the deficit would be in the range of 
5250 billion in 19M', the year in which a balanced budget would be 
required under a proposed constitutional amendment that Reagan 
favors. The red ink forecasted for 1984 and beyond could presumab­
ly be reduced through a combination ofeither spending cuts or tax 
increases, and Reagan already has indicated he intends to ask 
Congress to approve some spending cuts. -AP 
Britain charged a Canadian professor yesterday with spying for the Kremlin for three decades and quoted him as saying he dined in Moscow with Yuri V. Andropov in l97"i when the Soviet leader was head of the KGB. "It was quite an honor," Hugh George Hambleton, 60, told British interrogators in London, the prosecu­tion said. He was aNATO official in Paris from I9"i6 to 1961 and is an economics professor at Laval llniversity. Hambleton, Canadian by birth and British by descent, pleaded innocent at the Old Bailey Central Criminal Courr to passing top-secret data to Soviet agents fro~ 1956 to 1979. The jury trial, expected to last five days, was the third Old Bailey prosecution in three weeks under Britain's anti­espionage Officials Secrets Act. On Nov. I 0. Geoffrey Prime. a for­mer translator at a top-secret government communications headquarters in Cheltenham. pleaded guilty to charges of passing secrets to the Soviets and was sentenced to 35 years in prison. -AP 
Traffic accidents across the nation took 417 lives during the four-day Thanksgiving holiday period, four more than a year ago but slight!;; below a projected minimum estimate of the National Safety Council. The council had estimated that between 420 and 520 people might be killed in motoring mishaps in the feur­day span which began at 6 p.m. Wednesday and ran through mid­night Sunday. The lowest recorded Thanksgiving holiday toll was 403 in 1975. In 1968, there were 764 traffic fatalities in the four-day Thanksgiving period -the most of any holiday period on record in this country. During a four-day, non-holiday period this time of the year, 480 deaths could be expected, council statisticians said. -AP 
Officials in Hawaii began opening federal assistance centers yesterday on the hurricane-batrered islands to administer a disaster relief program authorized by President Reagan. The lights were back on in most of areas and life was returning to normal a week after Hurricane lwa's I I 0-mph winds and high waves destroyed almost S200 million worth ofproperty. Capt. Doug Stroll, a spokesman for the U.S. pacific Fleet, said three huge portable generators provided by the Navy had been plugged into the electri· cal system on the island of Kauai, where 39,000 residents had been without powersince last Tuesday. The nuclear attack submarine USS indianapo1is, which was sent to the island as a potential floating power plant, would head back out to sea he said. "Things are begin­ning to get back to normal," said Kauai Civil Defense spokesman Kenneth Robinson. "Most of the businesses are opening and people are reporting to work." -AP 
Pleasant todayand becoming partly sunny. High in low and mid 50s. Cloudy tonight and mild. Low in low and mid 40s. Cloudy tomorrow with chance ofrain. High in mid and upper 50s. ­
AP 
~ ·----­
Tuesday, November 30, 1982 -page 2 
Calling commies comrades 
Imagine a country whose populace consists of mil­lions ofdark, evil, people who have a single-minded ob­session with the destruction offreedom. 
This is but one of the many perceptions Americans have of the Russian populace. From an image standpoint, the Russians are at a disadvantage. As this nation's top adversary, the Soviet Union does not enjoy the best ofpublicity. 
Each year, the latest Soviet crop failure is given widespread coverage. We shake our heads sadly at the Russians incompetence, and then gleefully sell them tons of surplus wheat. The picture of the starch-filled, obese Russian family living in a one room tenement that gets hot water one hour a day from a faucet down the hall is also common. 
Creativity and the Russians are not considered synonymous either. One normally doesn't think of the Soviet citizen as having to entertain himself with doctored news about crop surplusses, and lengthy operas about revolutionary triumphs. 
Each four years, as the United States again is bested by the Russians in a majority ofOlympic events, we dismiss their achievements as being the results of "Hitler youth" style training programs, and strange hormones 
that make hair grow where it 

shouldn't. 
Since the Russians -or Commies as some call them -are considered the "bad guys," the coverage they have received in this country is understandable. In our rush to portray them as bumblers, many Soviet achievements have been all but ignored. 
For instance, a pair ofcos­
monauts have been in orbit in a Soviet space station for 
IL~I
over six months. The United States does not plan any­thing like this until later in this decade at the soonest. In the meantime, the Soviets are gammg knowledge about living in space that will cost us billions to dupl­icate. 
Of course unfavorable coverage h. not our sole domain. The Soviet ruler~ have elevated doctored "journalism" to an art form. Each day the Russians see shots ofsmoggy American cities, with streams oftraffic­bound cars clogging the streets. In addition, scenes of fur bevecked matrons passionately buying gold plated objects ofpleasure are transposed on shots ofinner-city poor rumaging through trash dumpster~. Of course, in excess there is often truth. 
What seems to be forgotten is that most Russians have no more desire to end up as a lump of nuclear charcoal then do most Americans. Indeed, the Soviet populace has been led to believe that they have to fear the U.S. They envision Americans as a bunch of war­mongers, busy building bombs under the leadership of a crazed hawk who used to shoot Indians for amuse­ment. 
"Preposterus!" "All lies!" "Most untrue!" you ex­claim. Why here in America we believe in peace. Right' 
The Observer 
Design Editor................. .. Tim Neely 
Design Assistants... .........!\arah Hamilton 
Troy I IIi!( Laura l'uk 1)•pese/lers ........ ........ Regj(ic Daniel :\lark .\liono Toni Rutherfon.l News Editor..................... ~lark Worschch 
Copy Editor... .. ...Jeff Harrington 8&r La)'OU/ ... ........................... E<l Konra<ly Editoriuls La_J•out ...............Joe Musumeci Sports Copy Et/1/or... ........ Mike Riccar<li ND IJUJ' Edilor...............................Jt>e Cimo .\~'IIC DaJ• Editor ........................ Tari Brown Ad Design ................................Jeannie Eych Pbotograpber............................ l'etc Lache• Guest Appeartmces.. Mickey an<l his Rah· 
hit The Missing '7'. A Sea·Sleen. Lots Of Abuse( Tons!) 
!';ow ll.ay Me Down To Sleep 
The Observer tUSPS '>~8 920t ,.. pc.Oitshed Mc•nddy thr,,ugn f"•li1y rlnd ..._ n horne f~.,h.;!Odll SdturJct 1/~ ext t•PI dunng excl'n dnf1 VdC.rtllun pt•rt\105 The Observer·~ pu011sn"a ov tne sruaen:s of Notre Ou·ne dna Sa,nt Mar i ~ C.·' lege SubSL npt"J~> ·nd 1 De purcnase,J lor S25 per yedr 1S 1:, per ,.,•neolt.•r 1 n, wJJttng The Observer P 0 Bvx ,~ Notre Dd•ne l~dldnd 45:,~ti 
The Observer ·~ " ·ne·,o.-r ,JI The Associated Press A. repr,.Ju• ft.·• 11ghts dre reservea 
Second c1nss j..h1S' a~w ;Jd1.1 dl Nu!r(' Da•ne ln.:ltand 4o~S6' 
• Tues.:
•••Wed: •
•••• Thurs: •
•
•
•
•
• Fri: 
• ••Snt: • 
•
•
• 
Ryon Ver Berkmoes 
Monoging Editor 
Inside Tuesday 

Well that's what we think. However, while we gloat at the success of our space shuttle, the fact that fifty per­cent ofits usage is earmarked for the military has been widely reported in Russia. And while we call it the Defense Department, its potential for offensive activity has not been lost abroad. 
This is not meant as a defense of the Soviet ruling government. On the contrary, that organization remains entirely unadmirable. But, what we need to remember is that Russia is not a country oftrolls schem­ing to enslave third world nations, but rather a countrv of people aspiring to live the lives of the Wester~ middle class. 
Western trends that make it to the Soviet Union have been avidly adopted. Tourists in Moscow have reported 
86XT 
CP~1re 
l3a.U.re 
Wr-bu-t
0 
'f · 
selling the jeans offtheir legs for close to $100. Each year the · ruling establishment promises to provide more material goods to the populace. When it comes down to it, lofty n{orals and political considerations are soon sacrificed to the demands of the stomach. Witness Poland. Since World War Two, taxi drivers in Warsaw have spat upon memorials to the Russians who died "liberating" the city from the Nazis. Yet it wasn't until gross mis­management by the govern­ment kept the Pole from 
purchasing his beloved hams, that conditions 
allowed the radical Solidaritv union to become a force 
During the 70's, relatio~s between our countrie~ warmed slightly. For a while the prospect of conflict and incineration was reduced. There were programs of cultural an9 scientific exchange. Perhap~ the most visible of these was the joint space mission. Onlv the most cynical could not be moved by the sight of astronaut and cosmonaut orbiting as friends. 
Unf(Jrtunately, subsequent events turned relations frigid again. The foolish invasion of Afganistan. our boycott of the 1980 Olympics, and a continuing arms build-up have placed us at odds again. But what does a head-to-head confrontation produce? A global cao;e of jitters at least. 
A former President named Nixon once said, "Sitting across from Brezhnev. I could not imagine that man ever ordering a nuclear attack." There is no reason to believe the new Andropov regime is any more war prune. If for once we consider the Russians ao; people instead of enemies, then we may be able to put the ex­plosive rhetoric aside, and deal with them as fellow humans. 
•
CORBY'S •
•
•
.. Schedule 
•
•
•
•
• 
• 
ffiichelob Night Sl per 
• 
Tip-Off Pcuty ( 4-8) SOc drnfts: ND vs KENTUCKY • Stng Beer 60c Cnn (10-3) 
mnrgnritn Night ••Free Nnchos (4-8) •
•
Uters S5.95 (nil night) •
•
•
Hnppy Hr. (4-8) 
• 
Pitchers S2.50 
NDvs. UCLA • ffiolson Drnft 75c •
•
Hot Dogs SOc (during gnme) •
•
•
•
• 
---------· ---------------------------­
The Observer Tuesd•~y, November 30, 1982 -page 3 
Erwin Salk 
Businessm.an to address arm.s race 
ByPATSAIN 
Yeu•sStaff 
Erwin Salk. pn:~ilknt of the inde­pendent mortgage hanker~ Salk. Ward. and Salk. Inc. will lecture tonight at "':50 in the auditorium of the l"niversity of ;\;otre Dame's (;al­vin Lift: Science Building on "Enlightened Self-Interest in the Nuclear Age: A Businessman's View." 
Salk. founder of Business Ex­ecutives Move ( BEM ), a national or­ganization of business leaders opposing the arms race, is the cousin ofDr. Jonas Salk, inventor ofthe anti­polio vaccine. 
In 196"', he founded Business Ex­ecutives Move for Vietnam Peace, a group which led 2,000 business firms to oppose the war in Vietnam. 
He was a delegate to the Conference on :'\uclear \\"ar in Europe at (,ronin­gen, the ;\;etherland~. in April of 19H I and participated in this year's massive dharmament demonstra­tion in ~ew York Citv in June, 1982. 
In a recent interview. Salk said "If we greatly reduced our arms spend­ing, \Ve could keep our factories spinning at I I 0 percent capacity for the next century." 
Salk's appearance at :\lotre Dame will follow a week-long visit to the Soviet l.'nion as a participant· in an international trade conference. 
D'Arcy Chisholm, of the Institute for Pastoral and Social :\-tinistry, invited Salk to speak at Notre Dame. He said that although Notre Dame has had medical, political, scientific, and religious viewpoints presented on campus, a business viewpo\nt is lacking. "It would be pertinent," 
Chisholm said, "to listen to a protlt­
motivated person who is interested 
in the nuclear arms race." 
Chisholm explained that the 
practice of spending millions of dol­
lar~ on nuclear arms is not good 
husines~ practice, noting that 
money is being wasted on arms for 
total destruction, with no return on 
the investment. 
"There is so much we can do with ·our "industrial might," Chisholm 
said, "and when we use it to make 
nuclear arms, we are wasting a lot of 
our resources." 
Salk's lecture, which is open to the 
public, is sponsored by the t:niver­
sity's Institute for Pastoral and Social 
:\-tinistry in cooperation with the 
~otre Dame Coalition for Peace. 
:\-tembers of the Notre Dame busi­
ness community are invited to at­
tend and challenge Salk's viewpoint. 

Workers were pumping till estimated -50,000 gallons of ~.<•uter
Nuclear waste sites yesterdt~l'from a 250-foot-deep test eel/for the MX missile located beneath tbis building at the Anwld Engineering Development Center near Tullahoma, Tenn. They expected to find the bodies of 
four workers killed in a Saturday flash fire. (A,' Photo)
House limits states' veto power 
WASHINGTON (AP) The While the difference in wording is between the extreme two-house 
·--------------------------,
House voted yesterday to limit the slight, the difference in effect is override that's in the bill now and no Fly home toN. Y .C. for Christmas with the 
ability of state~ to veto permanent enormous. It shifts the burden of veto at all." 

Long Island Club: 
nuclear waste disposal sites within proofto the states and requires them He said other provisions in the bill their borders, saying any such deci­to prod Congress into action. The requiring close consultation before sion must be ratified by one nouse of old version put the burden on the a site is selected assures that the 
$156 round trip 
Congress to be effective. federal government to defend its states' views will be represented. choice. The action came as ·the House South Bend--LaGuardia 
The House adopted 190-184 an Congressmen from states that are continued debate on a bill that amendment wiping out a much the leading candidate sites for a would establish a national nuclear -~'· stronger veto the states initially waste dump said the change will waste policy. were given over the selection of a deny them any effective voice. It would set up a procedure and nuclear waste dump site and sub­Rep. Ji Santini, D-Nev., said the timetable for selection of a tina! un­LEAVE:12/22 9:40pmstituting the weaker version. new veto language "b in essence a derground resting spot where 
l 'nder the old language, a state fraud and a sham." He said state ob­radioactive wastes coufd remain for RETURN: 1/9/83 midnight veto of its selection as a dump site jections "will never receive a fair, the hundred~ or thousands of year~ would be binding unless both honest and open hearing under the needed to render it harmless. The Bring checks to 320 Stanford houses of Congress voted to amendment." Rep. AI Swift, D-Wa.-;h., site is supposed to be in operation in 
. override it within 90 days. noted drvlv that the state chosen as a the late 1990~. 
1__________.!:,i~_!!!C!_~e_:~--------­
l'nder the new language, similar dump site '"can have input, but they 
to a version passed earlier this year can't affect the decision." The House was unable to com· by the Senate, the veto is meaning­Bui Rep. James Broyhill, R-N.C., plete actiun on the hill vesterda\·. It less unlt:s!> the state can persuade who ·sponsored the amendment. is tentatively ~cheduled to res~me :Student Union concerts presents : one house ofCongress to go along. said it was "clearly a middle ground later this week. 
•
New senate offices • 
in a satellite •• presentation •c • of the :
Lugar criticizes building tnove • 
• Toronto Concert • WASHINGTON (AP) Sen. tor of the comittee. Lugar spoke up last Wednesday tor • •
•
Richard Lugar, R-Ind., complained Childers said the committee had space in the Dirksen building. yesterday that he is being forced to decided that only 14 senators would Lugar, Indiana's senior senator, move into the SJ5"7 million Hart be allowed to remain in the Dirksen said he got the word from the Rules Senate office building against his Building and 36 in the older Russell Committee yesterday. will. Senate Office Building in order to till "I have opposed the construction 
•
A spokesman for the Senate Rules the 50 offices in the new building. of the Hart Building since my elec­Committee said this is true, and so Senators with the most senioritv tion to the Senate," Lugar said. "I •
••• Dec. 17.1982 10:00 pm • ••
did 19 other senators who have get first choice of offices. A numbe'r believe the building is a fiscal and ar-• offices in the Dirksen Senate Office of senior senators have shunned the chitectural affront to the American • Stepan Center : Building. new building. puhlic." e· 
"Sen. Lugar missed the cut," said Childers said the fourteenth The five newly elected senators • •
*Special Student Price $4.00 :
John B. Childers, deputy staff direc-senator with more seniority than are expected to receive offices in the Hart Building when the 98th : non -student $6.00 • Congress convenes in January. 
In the meantime, Sergeant at Arms Howard Liebengood told the fresh­
Tax :Tickets on sale at La Fortune :
' ' men they will be packed together in a large room in the Dirksen building. •
• Student Center startan~ Nov. 24 • 
Each will have two desks.
continuedfrom page 1 roads and bridges that threaten to 
crumble beneath us." ······················~········ toward helping cities with financial 
But Reagan quickly added "I have
and unemployment problems. ATTENTION
come before you with no magic wand. I am fighting in Washington to ENGINEERING STUDENTS 
"This next installment ... will reduce, not increase, the big spend­benefit working men and women ing that keeps our federal budgetmore than anyone else and will have 
The Air Force announces a new orogram that oavs Engineering
badly out of balance."
the most dramatic impact on our 
students $1,000 a month for up to 12 months while they're 
economy,' Reagan said. 
Reagan told the citv officials that \ attending school. · But, addressing his first major his recovery progra~ already is audience since the early-cut idea working. But speaking just before 

surfaced, Reagan sidestepped the Reagan, League president Ford L. 
To qualify, you must be a United States citizen. meet all mental timing question in his speech. He Harrison said it isn't working fast moral and physical requirements of an officer training school ' told reporters later, as he boarded enough. 
candidate. and be majoring in an accredited engioeerina 
Air Force One for his return to 
Washington, that he had yet to make "Intlation and interest rates tlnally program in one of the following areas: civil. aeronautical, started to come down in recent
a decision. ., astronai1Wcal, electrical, mechanical, industrial or nuclear. 
months, that's true, but not nearlv 
en the same scale as the decline in \ '\ For more information call or write: ,
Speakes said Reagan probably would make up his mind after the some of the major domestic 
programs over past -~ TSgt. Marty Lazar
(J
the several today and hefore ~etting out later in 
meeting with congressional leaders years," said Harrison, mayor ofScot­
~/-~ ~~~~~, USAF RECRUITING OFFICE 
the day on a Latin America tour. land Neck, :\!.C. 
\ , \<" ~ "" 1 125 South Hill Street South Bend, IN 46617 Reagan said the cities are "saddled "And what continued to go up, of 

\~~,:2fl~.~ 219-236-8208 COLLECT
with concentrations of our nation's course, wa.~ unemployment and 
'-"":--­
most troubling prohlems: high un­business failures, and with all of that, employment, decaying neighbor­a strain on the public agencies 
AIM HIGH ...BE AN AIR FORCE ENGINEER
hoods, grim crime rates, idle where people go for help," Harrison industries, eroding tax ba~es, and said. 
Tuesday, November 30, 1982 page 4 
________________________________________________, _______
The Observer 
i 

Pangborn Hall began its celebration ofChristmas byplacing the traditional tree in the lobby of the dorm. The Thanksgiving weekend is recognized by many as the start of the Christmas season. (Photo by Pete Laches) 
PENDLETON, Ind. ( AP) -State officials are studying all option~ in an effort to avoid rdeasing Indiana Reformatory inmates early to meet a federal order reducing the institu­tion's population, say~ Superinten­dent Norman Owens. 
.Supreme District Court judge S. Hugh Dillin ordered the Depart­ment of Corrections to reduce the inmate population to I,750 byJan I. The state was also ordered to make improvements in living conditions. These conditions included medical and psychiatric care, food service facilities, and vocational or educa­tional assignments for inmates. 
As of yesterday, there were I,866 inmates and Owens said state offi­cials plan no early rdease to meet the order Dillin issued in May. 
"We remain adamant against early release of inmates," said Owens. "We have to consider the safety of the public and releasing inmates before they have completed their sentences is against the public inter­est." 
Owens said providing temporary housing or the transfer ofinmates to other institutions are other options being studied. 
"Ofcourse, another option is ask­
ing the judge to stay his order. The 
Under court order 
Hoosiers seek intnate reduction 
key thing i~ Wt' want to ~void any mas~ release of inmates," Owen~ said. 
"The state'~ inmate population b growing by leaps and bound~. We hate to take inates from one institu­tion and put an additional burden on another. Hopefully, we can work this out to satisfy the court order without placing a burden on other taci!ities." 
One possibility not being con­sidered is a move of inmates from the reformatory to the Indiana State Prison at Michigan City, Owens said. 
The prison has also been ordered to reduce its population by U.S. Dis­trict Judge Allen Sharp. The state asked Sharp last week to extend his Jan. 1 deadline for another six months and a hearing on the move has been scheduled for Dec. 6. 
The state has already asked Dillin to delay his order and also requested a stay from the 7th U.S. Court of Ap­peals. However, the appeals court said it would not make a decision un­til Dillin acb on the state's appeal. There was no indication from Dil­lin's office yesterday when the judge might make a decision on the re­quest. 
"lfwe don't have a definite answer 
from the judge by the last week in 
Prerequisite for 
I 
l 
"'----------Thefinest beer brewed and bottled in Canada. Imported by Martlet Importing Co., Inc., Great Neck, N.Y. © 1982.-----------' 

December, we'll have to go hack to the Court of Appeab ~eeking some relie(" ~aid Dan Foley, the ad­ministrative assistant to ~tate Attor­ney (jenera! Linley E. Pearson. "We'll just ask the court what we must do to avoid being in contempt ofcourt." 
The prison and reformatory are the state's only maxiumum security tacilities for inmates. 
Several months ago, Dillin told the state to discuss the situation with Legal Service Organization attor­neys representing the inmates. Dil­lin said then that if the state was making a "good faith effort" to meet his order for improvements at the reformatory the Sept. 1 deadline woufd be unofficially stayed. 
f.SO attorney Donald Lundberg says his organization cannot agree to extending the deadline for reducing the inmate population. 
"We have no authority, and ethi­cally, we can't throw away gains we've made for our clients without getting something in return ... We have clients whose interests we're required to serve." 
• .. Soviets 
continuedfrom page I 
Crocker said the attacks haven't yet resulted "in the kind of public condemnation that it should." He said the Soviets an: "getting a free ride on this" ~o tar. 
While the l'nited States previous­ly charged that toxins were being used . in Afghani~tan. it ha~ only proved it beyond doubt recently. the new department report said. It ~aid trichothecene mvcotoxins havt· been u.,ed lw Soviet forces in Af­ghanistan since at least ll)HO. 
Toxins are pobonous substance~ secreted b~ certain organbm.,. Variou~ kinds are alleged to have been used by the Soviets in their ef. lort to subdue resistance ti>rce~ in Atghanistan and to have been ~upplied by the.Soviets to their \'iet­name~e and Laotian allies. 
The department cited report~ from guerrilla ~ources that at least I00 were killed in ~eparate aHac-ks in At.ghanistan in 1<)82, including~:, who died from a gas pumped from an armored vehicle into a water supply used by Mo~lem guerrillas in Lowgar Province on Sept. 1.~. 
:>[ i·A\ 'JiR!, >OP. i""CI,;!Ofl,. J:, ".. ;l{E I·IAYS ~11M1 0:1[ 
First, the college education you have already acquired can qualify you for advanced rank and pay, Just two years of college can nean a higher starting salary. 
Second, yo~ can accumulate funds for continuing your college education -u~ to $15,200 in two years or $20,000 in three or fnur years. 
Third, you may have your guaranteed Student Loan or National Oirect Stu­dent Loan forgiven at the rate of 33 1/3: or $1500 for each y~ar of Active duty, 
Fourth, you'll r~ceive fully-paid training n a field of your choice, and you ca" choose almost anything from avionics repair to X-ray tech­nician, 
lie also offer travel and adventure in ;,,:c:i t ion to many other benefits, such as 30 days vacation earned every year We're the U.S. Army. Find out how >~e may fit into your future plans. 
Call: CPT John J. Cooney 219-232-6250 (call collect) 
_s,lf you ani a senior Gr grn:luate planning for your future, 11c h2vc 
a limited nur:1ber of cper.ings for 
f..rr.y Officer CandiC.dte 5tht·ol. 
c:;w 
--------------------------------------------------------------------· 
The Obsen er 
Conclude journalism conference 
Panelists discuss reporters'role 
By CAROL CAMP 
SeniorStaffReporter 
Objectivity versus the reporter's interpretive role -the dilemma which confronts all journalists ­was discussed by panelists Max Ler­ner, Georgie Ann Gever, and john Craig during last Tuesday's conclud­ing session of the "Responsibilities ofjournalism" conference. 
Lerner, the Welsh \1siting Profes­sor in Notre Dame's American Studies program, labeled the inves­tigative reporter as a "lone ranger" figure and emphasized the value that American society has traditionally placed upon "individual initiative and individual drive." 
In order to preserve the proper balance between the reporter's roles, Lerner said he believes it is necessary for journalists to develop paradigms and peer review of col· leagues. 
He also commented on the about-face which American liberal thought has experienced during the past century in terms ofintervention and non-intervention in economic at~ fairs. In Lerner's ,-iew, liberals are those individuals who advocate "inter-vention in economic affairs" but who advocate laissez-faire philosophy in the realm of ideas and personalliberites. 
Georgie Ann Geyer ack· nowledged the need for "hustlers in the business (journalism), because they feel that what they do is very moral." In addition, Geyer, a colum· nist for Universal Press Syndicate, summarized her reactions to the speakers' remarks, complimenting them upon the quality of their 
speeche~. 
john Craig, editor of The Pitts­burgh Post-Gazette, presented 
three questions for participants to consider: the nature of the press as an institution, the significance of the role that business plays in jour­nalism, and the ethical nature of the photographs used hy the media in news-papers and in television news broadcasts. 
He noted that there is a compell· ing need to develop a "better press" so that "our free society will operate better." Craig admonished his col· leagues for failing to consider that there are some things which the public does not have a right to know (for example, the names of crime victims). 
Craig ended the conference by reminding the audience of the nature of the responsibilities of the individual journalist and of the need to maintain a balance between professional ethics and a reporter's business obligations. 
Subsidies, trade barriers 
.. 
Conference rejects U.S. proposals 
GENEVA, Switzerland (AP)-An 88-nation trade conference yester· day dashed U.S. hopes ofphasing out Common Market farm subsidies and winning Third World conu.,sions on trade barriers, approving a final declaration that skirted both·issues. 
"Overall, the results might get a grade of C," said U.S. trade repre· sentative William E. Brock. "I don't think Congress will be happy." 
After five days of grueling and at times biter negotiations, delegates from nations subscribing to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade voted early yesterday for a 3,000-word document that en· dorses GATT principles of free and open trade. 
The vote came in a plenary ses· sion that originally was scheduled for Saturday, but was re~eatedly delayed to avoid having the con·
8 8 
0 
4 
0 Report
1 
0 
6 •
7 
4 
questtons 
9 e 
lviXvalue 
WASHlNGTO~ (AP)-As the .\1X missile awaits a crucial test in a House Committee. a Congressional Budget Office .report said yesterday that the S26 hillion nuclear weapon program would make a "relatively small" contrihution to the nation's strategic defense. 
"The MX's contribution to tJ.S. strategic capabilities would be relatively small -between five and thirteen percent by 1996" when the la..~t of a new series of nuclear weapons, including B· I and radar­evading "stealth" bombers and im· proved submarine-hased missiles, are deployed. the study said. 
After Pentagon studies lasting more than a year. President Reagan decided Nov. 22 to base the weapons in a closely spaced. "dense pack" arrangement of "~uper· hardened" underground silos near Cheyenne, Wyo. 
The concept is hased on the theory that many of the Soviet missiles dispatched to wipe out the :\IX weapons would destroy each other by "fratricide" as they reached rhe target area. 
Alice M. Rivlin. director of the budget office. told House Budget Committee Chairman James R. Jones, D-Okla.. in a letter ac­comp~nying the report that her agancy "cannot judge the compli· cared technical issues that determine whether \IX in CSB (closely spaced hasing) would survive" a Soviet attack. 
But. she said. "Even if CSB works and the :\IX survives in suhstantial numhers, the percentage comrihu· tion to l nited States strategic capabilities would he small." 
ference end without making any kind of joint declaration. 
The compromise document, watered down in marathon bargain· ing over the weekend, committed GATT members to "resist" protec· tionist trade barriers erected to protect weak domestic industries. 
But, under objections from the Common Market and elsewhere, it dropped a previous draft's pledge to "refrain" from protectionism, as well as a U.S.·backed text that would have called for "dismantling" exist­ing protectionist measures. 
Some GATT members even ob­jected to language providing for a study of perhaps the most hotly debated issue -agricultural sub· sidies. 
The United States was deeply in­volved in both major disputes that had paralyzed the conference since opening day and threatened its col­lapse. 
One focused on the Common Market's refusal to meet U.S. demands for a gradual phase-out of agricultural subsidies enacted to reduce huge surpluses. The U.S. delegation said the subsidies make for unfair competition by undercut­ting other nations' prices. 
:\lost GATT members outside the European Economic Community backed Washington in the debate, but the final document made no specific reference to farm price sup· port. 
It called for a two-year study on how to bring agriculture "more ful· Iy" into the GATT trading ~)'stem and "to seek to improve terms of access" to farm markets. 
The Common Market insisted on reading into the record a statement that this "is not a commitment to any new negotiation or obligation in relation to agricultural products." 
The final agreement on agriculture "did not go as far as we would have liked," said a weary Brock shortly before dawn yester· day. "I don't think it will solve the American farmer's problems." 
Brock noted that there is strong sentiment on Capitol Hill for dump· ing low-priced dairy products on world markets unless Common Market subsidies are phased out. Nine Republican senators and con· gressmen attended the conference, lobbying heavily for the C.S. posi· tion. 
The threat of dumping, and the lobbying, angered some European delegates. who called it "arm twist· ing 
-T"h-;'T'hO".nG'S-••;c,;;-sc,C"i"ViY"OTiiOire-Dc.m;-1 
Prvsvnts 1 
.. Contemporary lssuvs Lecturv Sericzs.., W·vdnvsday nights 8:15-9:1 5 I Rm. 11 5 O"Shag Hall I Q and A Period following prcuentations I 
Dvc. 1 1 "Economic Principlvs of I 
. Vatican II" Dr. Charles Wilber. I 
Economics I 
~----------~--------------J
ooo1fooou 

for those interested in b~ part of the ,emg J 
1983 marU gras! HEAD COMMITTEE: 
MEETI~G: Thurs., Dec. 2 7 pm LaFortune Little Theatre 

Tuesd~y, November 30, 1982 -page 5 

The "HiMatjet," a 21 foot scale model ofwhat might be one of the country's new fighter aircraft, makes a slow left tun1 over the Mo}az'e Desert during a test flight from /VASA's Ory'rien Flight Research Facili~)' at Edwards Air Force Base, Calif The remote· control system is tt safer way of experimentin'<, with new con· figurations and doing hazardous testing. (AP Photo) 
l··-~.......·-~·--...-............................~........,.....,...~ ......~.....~..,......,.....,..._ .. 
~ --SOFT CONTACT LENSES ~ ~ Special price on Soft Contact lenses~ 
~ -l 
. ~ 
I $99pairprice 1 
j Price includes 1 i • Dailu wear soft contact lenses r 
~ :1 l 
~ • Professional and fitting fees i ~ • Free cold care solution kit ! \ • Free training in proper handling ~ ~ Call one ot our conuenient locations todau for ! ~ an aooointment. Present this as ad for the ! ~ special $99price. I 
1 Professional Vision A5$oci~tes..... ! 
\ ihe profess1ona sin eyecare ~ 
\ 1635 N.lronwood 277-1161 
~ 2211 S. Michigan St. 289-7272 
\ Belleuille Shopping Ctr. 287-5949 
,...........,.......,....,....,.~ .......~~~.....,.....,. ........~~~...............~ 
~ ~ 
! 
.................... ~J 
Build your future with an 
MBAfromliT 
The liT/MBA Advantages: 
Computer based management education for the Financial, 
• 
Producing and Service Industries. ·
• 
• 
Afull-time faculty of professional educators experienced in real world applications. 
Unique MBA specializations in Information Resources 
• 
Management and Industrial Management. 
• 
MBA specializations in Finance, Marketing, Accounting and Human Resources Management. 
• 
2convenient locations: Downtown at 77 South Wacker and Main Campus at 31st and State. Easy parking at both. 
Part-time and full-time admissions. 
Dr. Nathan Keith, Assistant Dean Call liT School of Business Administration or 10West31 Street,Chicago,IL60616
write 
iii
312/567-5104 
Spring semester begins on Jan. 17, 1983, with registration on Jan. 12. 
llh.,o•c; ,.,..,t•tule of Tech.,ology 1!> ;J., equal opporlu.,•ly educator 
,----------------------------·
: Please send more information on UT's MBA program to: 
1 I Name 
1 
I Srr~~-------------------------------------­
1 
: City_.;__________ State--------­
.. 
l l Zip-------Daytime phone --------==----­

~-~----~ 
r-~-~-------------~ 
I 
I 
I 
I 3_o, 6
BusineSS & T~hnology_Tue_sday_,No_vem_ber 19_s2_Pa_ge 
' 
EconomicUpd~te 
The nation's money supply soared $2.8 bil­lion in mid-November, extending its autumn surge to nearly 518 billion, the Federal Reserve Board reported yesterday. Analysts said concern has increased that~ the explosive growth of M I, which represents funds readily available for spending, will rekindle in­flationary fe<1rs and push interest rates higher. That would reverse four months ofsteep declines in interest rates, which fell earlier this month to their lowest levels in more than two years. Interest rates spurted up prior to the release ofthe figures but were little changed following the report. The Fed has recently injected money into the economy, in part because of concern over the highest unemploy­ment and business-failure rates since the Depression. It has reduced its discount rate, rhe interest on Fed loans ro banking institutions, from 12 percent in July to a current rate of nine percent. -AP 
Science Update 
Rockwell International Corp. agreed yester­
day to pay the government SI. 5 million to settle a civil suit charging 
the company with overbilling taxpayers as the prime contractor for the space shuttle, theJustice Department announced. The suit and a consent judgment resolving it were filed in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles, ending a three-year investigation of the contractor by the FBI, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and Defense Department auditors. Rod:well was represented in the negotiations with the government by Attorney General William French Smith's former Los Angeles law firm, Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher. As a result, Smith took no role in the case, department spokesman John Russell said. He added that no criminal charges were filed because despite "three years of investigation there wasn't enough evidence to sus­tain criminal charges." The Justice Department's complaint described a scheme by which Rockwell shifted costs from a "fixed price" Air Force contract to the "cost-plus" space shuttle contract, thus ensuring that any cost overruns would be borne by the govern­ment, rather than Rockwell, as the Air Force contract required. The government's papers gave no indication of the exact amount Rock­well overbilled on the space.shuttle contract.]. Brian Hyland, NASA's deputy inspector general, estimated in 19""9 that Rockwell's over­charges on the shuttle could be as high as SS million. -AP 
. all StreetUpdate ,· \ 
Wall Street closed yesterday with the Dow Jones average of 30 industrials, up more than 16 points in the last two sessions, dropping back 4. 51 to 1,002.85. Declines outpaced ad­vances by about 4 to 3 on the New York Stock Exchange. Big Board volume totaled 61.08 million shares, against 38.81 million in Friday's post-holiday session. The NYSE's composite index fell .41 to 77.73. At the Aerican Stock Exchange, the market value index was down 
I.SS at 328.81. -AP 

.ecutltlJOUrwag....orelite! 
.,..~Oil UOfe; 
~\~'~in~ ltQ_ all 1..1AIR lc'-'.,. ,­

P _c_ -etS 
-
0~

I \IIR~li' \ For .,uur 'iHc 
. . I_ I 
I ·. ~-.0 \b1 e I 
I 
oo. c.. • 
~-~\1iif:~ ---­
No appointment I Open 7 days daily 9 ro 8 Sat. 9-6 Sun 11 -5 
Grape Road Plaza Grape and Day Roads 
277-7946
~REDI<EN 
Hair must be shampooed day of cut 
ShroudofTurin 
STURPtries for positive I.D. 
light; scrutinized it under optical and electron microscopes; pulled apart and stained its sacred threads. 
Yet with all the latest technology at their disposal, the researchers have not been able to explain un­equivocally how on earth (or ebe­where) th1~ image was made. Some of them seem almost prepared to certify the shroud as authentic. 
John Heller, a STURP chemist, says "There's only one chance in five or six million that the shroud will turn out to be a fake." But another group of experts, notably Walter McCrone, a leading microscopist and detector of forgeries who was forced to quit STURP for his unor­thodox opinions, is equally con­vinced it is a fake. 
In I 969 and 1973, Vatican officials took the shroud out of its casket, unfolded it, and permitted small groups of Italian scientists to remove tiny samples ofthe cloth. 
The results were unsatisfactory. Although it was shown that the image had not been painted on by any common technique, particles from the "bloodstain" areas did nor test positively for blood. By and large, the scientists were skeptical. 
But a seeming victory for the aut­henticists came in 1976, when two bomb designers with the Air Force Weapons Laboratory in Albu­querque, N.M., John Jackson, the founder of STURP, and Eric Jumper, claimed to have discovered that be shroud contained "three dimen­sional" in.formation about the body it once covered. 
Simply put, that means the brighter the area of the image, the closer that part of the linen was to the corpse. 
Jackson and Jumper determined this connection by taking complex optical measurements of a male volunteer 5 feet, I I inches tall and weighing I""0 pounds. who was covered with a sheet that had the shroud image outline on it. 
Using a computer, they compared this information with the relative darkness of different points on the shroud image (which had been measured by a microdensitometer). 
The two sets of data meshed al­most perfectly, declared Jackson and Jumper -and to prove it they constructed a three-dimensional model of"the man in the shroud." 
Though Jackson and Jumper's "radiation scorch" theory con­tradicted all known physical laws, ncbody had come up with a better one. And the two men had good scientific credentials. That wa~ enough to impress the Vatican . 
In J97H it agreed to allow .">."'> STliRP membns to take a crack at the shroud with almost an\'thing that modern h.:chn<>hJgy haJ tP of­fer. The member~ claimed they wc:re going to Tunn :1:-~uent•~t~. 
Still. STl:RI' \' ,, ~cft-,elect<. ,; group. \1anY W< reh~·"'"· ,. ,<-n fundamentalisl. \Ia. 111 \ludln. . ph) ~lUSt at l.o~ Al:l01l-t11U a ·""!-\ time 'iTt!RI' oh~ern-r. s.:ys "The~ were trving to prove the ~hroud wa~ authentic. That wa~ tllc1r goal, even if they didn't sav ~om print." 
To resolve the ·disputt:. \1ueller sugge~ts th:tt the t:xperiments he repeated an independem laboratory. Ahove all. the cloth :·u...• 
he d:,u:·'  n·--,w·  · •ld  nor  pnne  
that  the  sluul..  Christ's  - a  
medieval  forger  uJulc.  han  (•b­ 

tained a pit:ce ofancic:nt lincu -hut it could ~"''" ..:~-isively that it i' a fake. 
The Vatican ha' been reluctant to allow the carbon-14 test for fear too much of the cloth would be destroyed in the process. "But nowallays," says Mueller, "it's a pus­hover to do the carbon-14 dating from a tiny sample." 
STURP is eager w see the test per­formed, and most observers expect that permis,;ion will come. After all, the church ha' nolhing to lose 
Discover News Service 
During the Middle Ages, more than 40 authentic burial shrouds or Christ were being peddled through­out Europe. 
Most of these shrouds have long since joined the ash heap of history. But for six centuries millions of people, Christians and non­Christians alike, have continued to believe that one of tht: cloths, the shroud ofTurin, is genuine. 
It is not that impressive an object today: The Christlike image on it is faint, and can be made out only at a llistance. 
But in recent years the believers have been bolstered in their convic­tion by unlikely contributions from science and technology. Never has a religious object attracted such at· 
tention;  never  has  one  been sub­ 
jected  to  such  a  wide  variety  of  
sophisticated tests.  

In an attempt to determine once and for all whether the shroud is a forgery, scientists working with an organization called the Shroud of Turin Research Project (STURP) have bombarded the cloth with X· rays and ultraviolet and infrared 

Despite dozens oftests, X-rays andphotographs, including these positive and negative photographs ofthe shroud, the debate or•er the authenticity of the shroud of Turin goes on. (Discover Magazine by Vernon Miller) 

tt~nsing SpDrf SIIDp 
Get your interhall basketball shirts, shorts and shoes at discount rates. 
234-8024--Bob =====283 f004 Keuin 
• • ·-• • ••:::2 
• 
Jutlionst! ·1 
~oHe,1~ to,1 J\Jlotvti~ ._9nn.1oom<; tolr. 71~ :b1uo,1~ Ig-:20 I 
Juntotr. ~o,1cnt~:· :=u.h~c~end wiQQ be on tfhutt~ .. COec·. 2in ~oCJ'o~tune J\JOBo· 
7:00 L1Wl 


.: 
Editorials 
Tuesday, November 30, 1982 -page 7 
Will Begin have to go 1 
The shadow of the coming report of the Is­raeli Inquiry Commission has already fallen on Menachem Begin, Ariel Sharon and their col­leagues, who have been warned that the evidence puts them at risk. The question is whether this means that the final report will topple the government. 

Max Lerner 
On and Off 
I doubt that it will, despite the fervent hope in Washington that Begin has overreached himself and dug his own political grave. In fact. the scarcely concealed bitterness about him in Washington may even help him politi­cally. It is another instance where passion has not been guided by perspective. 
The parallel with the 1973 war, when an Intelligence failure forced Golda Meir and Moshe Dayan to resign, is no real parallel. The Inquiry Commissin at the time held them responsible, hut what made them go was the force ofIsraeli opinion, which saw the lapse in Intelligence as a threat to national security. 
There wa.. a had Intelligence failure this time, too, a messing-up ofcommunications, and a classic case of insensitivity and negligence. But the Israelis may choose to see it in different terms -as a threat to their world moral image, rather than to their na­tional security. 
This is where Americans may be misled by the Watergate model, which had to do with moralitv, not national securitY. For the Is­raelis, national security has 'counted, and Menachem Begin has made himself the overriding symbol of the concern about it. If anything -in knocking out the Iraqi nuclear reactor, in the Lebanon invasion -he has opened himself to the charge of an excessive­zeal over security, which is why the 1973 parallel may not apply in the coming turmoil of19&3. 
Since Begin is the prime symbol ofa nation­al security hawk and Shimom Pc:res is seen as a defense dove, it will he hard for Peres to push the security angle. He can only argue that Begin has put Israel's moral authority at risk. 
Will that be enough to oust him? Con­ceivably il might. The Israelis have shown themselves sensitive to their loss ofmoral face in not preventing the massacre in the refugee. camps. 
But it is hard to know how deeply this ha!> affected not only Begin's traditional Labor Party opponents, but also his supporters. Begin's political strength flows from his image as a hard-driving nationalist. His loss of moral authority over the camps is unlikely to diminish that image. 
There is a complicating factor. If Begin decides to resist the panel's censure and fight it out politically, in a general election, he may run on a slogan of Israeli independence of American political meddling, and return with a majority. Reading Max Frankel's recent "Editorial Notebook" articles in The New York Time, one gets more th1.m a hint that the "Socialist elites" in the Labor Party have lost touch with the true feeling of the Israeli people of the culture itself. 
\'\:ashington welcomed Shimon Peres as if he was a head ofgovernment in exile, used his politiq.l position as a basis of the "Reagan Plan," and some unwarv zealots both in Wash­ington and Jerusalem ~eem to have talked of the possible cutting-off of American aid if the Begin heresy persists. 
I cannot instruct Israeli t political leaders about their positions, hut I can say that the persistence of the anti-Begin vendetta in Washington is an idiot way to shape Mideast policy. 
Israel's continuing military a'ld democratic strengths, under whatever leadership. are es­sential to the American Pational intere~t in the Middle East. America would ignore this central fact at its peril. 
Cop~Tighr I ')H!, LA. Time!'! ,"'iyndicare 
Assasination: how soon we forget 
November 22 marked the nineteenth an­niversary of the assassination ofJohn F. Ken­nedy. Throughout the nation, editorials appeared, praising Kennedy's foresight and decrying the violence which so swiftly ended his dreams. 
Alison Hilton 
Guest Columnist 
However. hardy more than a week has passed ~ince the anniver~ary, and already many of us have forgotten that afternoon in Dallas. 
The Kennedy incident is obviously before our timt:; the majority of us were still crawl­ing around in our diapers then. Our parents, however. were in the midst of this national tragedy. Any adult over the age of thirty 
P.O. BoxQ 
DearEditor: 
Mark Worscheh's reflections on the Viet­nam Veterans Memorial (Inside Friday, November I9) were smug, shallow. and patronizing. They displayed the qualities which have so endeared America to the veterans of her orphan war. 
\'ietnam veb paid for that memorial. saw to its con~truction. and dedicated it. We. the veteran~. not Mr. \'\'or~cheh. are the ones en­titled to .__.xplail' the meaning of the menoriai : kiVl\\ II' own ccmtrihution was not ime1H.lnl t<> protitok the nuclear weapon~ ln:e1c. :b a marter of fact, I do not favor the freeZl: 
\'\'orschd1 ~atd veteran~ would have ap­provnl of the nuclear arm~ convocation with wh1ch '\otf<' l)Jme chose to observe \ t·teran' lJ,t\. !lUI we are a collection of in­dn u.Jua.~. not a hl'fd. I have found that Viet­nam \TI' -.trom.:h· di,agree over -.uch issue-.. -.ome t.nnt· ban lf•>lll -.outheast A~ia with a _,inccrc · •11' ICl!on that Lht· \'ietnam war was an 111111 .r.t. war. I It her~ thought that they could h,,' l' \\on tht· war.except that they 
wn  ·.thhnl in tlw hack lw the civilian.. at  
h  '"llll' -.uppnrt rhe tret'Zt'; other~  do  
rill'  onh  . '"'g  we  ~hare  without  

4'" .11tica1tun I' .t hod~ of common ex­
t' 'fk. 
' thinh. that nu>~l ''' ·' t ~tme home from 
knows the horrible feeling that engulfed the the Pope his target. That day, .John Paul II nation that dav. Most could probably recite 
was seriously wounde<.l by an assassin's bul­all the facts s~rrounding the assassination, let. even what they personally were doing at the 
How did peopk respond to the attempttime of the announcement. Surely, this na­on Reagan's life' On Pope: john Paulll's life'tional tragedy hit the hearts of Americans Of course, some shouts were heard. But, on quite sharply. 
the whole. the American citizens were not ~lartin Luther· King wa., in Memphis to nearly as enraged about these recent eventsparticipate in a workers' demonstration. A as the general population was about Ken­man by the name ofjames Earl Ray had other nedy's and Martin Luther King's deaths. Ifplans for King. On April <i. 1968, King was you were to ask people today the cir­conversing on a balcony at the Lorraine cumstances surrounding the Reagan­Motel in Memphis when he was killed by Hinckley incident. how many people wouldRay's shot. 
he able to tell you the facts' -.urely, a largein Washington, D.C. on ~larch 30. 19tH. 
majority ofpeople were not shockc:d strong­an assassination attempt was madt: on the ly enough by the attempt on Reagan's life tolife of President Reagan. Tqat day, while remember it well. Something is obviouslyReagan, surrounded hy security guards. was wrong.
leaving a meeting,John Hinckleyjr. aimed to kill the U.S. President. Some may argue that the reason for the In Vatican City on May I 3. 1981, Pope difference of emotion!> lies in the fact that John Paul 11 was on his way to meet papal JFK and King were killed by their assassins, audience~. Enroute, a Turkish terrorist made whereas Rt:agan and the Pope had their lives 
Vietnam memorial 
the war with more questions than answers. These are the things that we all have had to 
Vietnam made us face certain facts about find a wav to live with. America. For example. we observed the bur­Now ti'nally the living and the dead of the den of America's longest and least popular war have a memorial ofstone. It is pc:rhaps a war was borne bv those who had received poor substitute for all that was lost, hut it the least from the American Dream. ~tr. 
seems to me to he a powerful svmbol of Worscheh's fears for Notre Dame's class of America's shame:. Black stone _.:. an ap­19HS an· probahlv groundless. People like propriare choice_ 
threatened, but not taken away. I, however, feel the: reasons go berond this fact. The basis lies deeper in American society than that surface excuse. 
The true p-roblem can be stated simply: an uncaring attitude has become the American norm. People in general have become so ac­customed to violence and crime that even the national tragic events are vic:wed with Jess concern than in prior year!>. When -.omething occurs as shocking as the attempt to kill a public tlgure. all Americans should be outraged and furious. Instead. with our no-cart: attitude. the majority tt'nds to react with a little ~:motion. but not with outragt:. Thb is perfect sign ofour uncaring world. 
w·e must begin to express interest. Mur­
.i 
der b tragic. and the murder attempt of a 'i public individual is even more shocking. Americans must regain the concern they onc~.: had. 
] 
1 
l 
I 
As for the nuclear freeze and the class of I 9HS, let them build monuments of their own. That dark. sunken angle on tht: Mall 
belongs to us. Keep your hand~ off. 
Thomas .11. Gregg Grad. Student. History Dept. Former staffsergeant. L'-S.A.F. 
that d11 not tight :\mc:rica's wars. Thc:y are po~·erfully protected b\ the system. which ha1-a vested intt:rest in shielding the elite by ~acriticing the lives of the unimportant. 
The: memorial in Washington belongs not to l\1r. Wor-.cheh and his trendy crusade for peace. but to s-.939 forgotten men. Thc:re are very few Harvard or :'\lotre Dame grads represented on that sad li~t of names. \tan\· of those dead voung men. in fact, lacked c:ven a high school education. That is the way in which America ha~ chosen to tight ib war-. and to distribute its burdc:n~. .­
I cannot claim to ~peak fi>r anyone but mndf Some Vietnam \Tts would agree with me; some would dc:ny tht· truth of evcn·­thing I have written. Only one thing hold~ true lor nTr\ \T((:ran ofthe war: c:ach one of us has had to makt· a truce with the world as il is. The war and the nation we served took everything from us: innocence, pride. self respc:ct. honor. The war and the nation took the lives of s-.9:W ofour comradc:s in arms. 

Editorial Board Department Managers
The Observer 
I/, ()i•, 11,' '' .Jfl Jlhkf'Uhlul: II<'V. 'l'·lf't·r f'Uhl ...h,·,l h the 'ltld<'lli' nt !itt' l:'dilllr· in -Chief.. ,\1il·had ~1onk Business Manager .. ............·1 on\ \1cllo 
t:•I<J,JII "' :--.;,,,,.J).t111t' ,fu l.t•.11111 S.unt /\1.1n·, ( ulk.~< It ,j,,e, 1·<>1 llt'c".lfll) .l!mu1ging J:'tlitor. .... Ryan \'er Bcrkmoe~ Controller .. ...... I· r1t ., l111lt "·tf,.,, tl:c f'"f,,w, PI tiJt' .t•illlllll'll.lil<>l:'<>l <'l!ltn lll,tilul~<>ll !'he nt·v., '' rq•urt Fn·culil'e .\eu·s l:'dilor.. David Dziedzic Adt•erlising Manager .... Chrt'' ·.t·n l',l ·" ·'', ul.li<·l, Jll•l ·"' ,,f<,._, 1:1< l1 ·'' f'll,,lhk h!Jt<HIJf, rq'rt·,cnt !ltl' llf'l:llon nt .\ 1/C l:'xecutit•e l:'clitor .. .\largart·t h>~moe Production Manager ..... .. \laura \luq>ll; .t·ll:.qt~r•IY lll thl' I ,l.l•<ll.d 1\ll.tr.l ( '"::rtw:ll.ll:t'' <>f'1111l>n' .ll1,lltttn' .lr<' lilt' ,.,l'.,, .\purls l:'ditur.. .. .. <:hri' ~ecdlc~ Circulation .Uanager.. ..... Mark Miotto 
.. ... Paul .\lcCinn .\yslems ,'lofamlger .... . ....... .lirul't.' Oaklt-\ 
"' thur Juthor' ( ..Lnnn 'i'·'' ,. ·'' .t:l.thk I<' .til 111l'lllhn, <>I rill' •c'l11111<11.tl) ..tnJ Frlilori<lis hlitor il:l' I• ("(,' t'X('ft'\)llln ol \ .lr}'lll6 uplniO!l> Oil cJ.Ill}'U>. through l~tt'I>, 1> t:nLUUI lgt>J 1-l'<itllres l:'£1ilor l;tn 1wn .... ..dllr'fr ... ... R:~chcl Blount 

Founded NovL_..Jer 3, 1966 
~jb()~tS=f3==~==1=·~~~L:S========~====================T=u=es=d=ay='=N=o'='e=m=b=er=3=0=,=l9=8=2==p=a=g==e8
Bv /he ( JIJsen•er and /he Assncittted Press 
The injury-ridden Notre Dame hockey team fell to 3-9 (tied for ninth and last in the CCHA) after being swept at league-leading Bowling Green, 12-2 and 12-3 this past weekend. A potent Falcon power play connected on 9 of 13 power plays while the Irish ran their streak of goal-less man-advantages to 
21. In Saturday's game, BG scored five times in 2:14 to claim a league record. The prognosis for Charles "Lefty" Smith's team will not im­prove much as NO must face powerful Michigan State this weekend at the ACC. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's basketballteam lost its second game of the season last Tuesday. dropping a 69-61 decision to Siena Heights in Adrian. Mich. Foul trouble and a lack of depth hurt first­year coach Mike Rouse's squad, as Siena made 13 of 2H free throws and Cindy Short and Missy Van Ort fouled out. Elaine Suess ( 20 points), Trish Nolan ( 12) and Short ( 11 ) led the Belles' scoring column. -The Obsen,er 
Mark Fisher and Don Heintzelman placed in a Thanksgiving weekend wrestling tournament in Goshen. Fisher finished first in the 126-pound class, and Irish co-captain Heintzelman was fourth among the I 42's. Before break, Notre Dame won both its ends of a triangular meet at the ACC, beating Saginaw Valley State, 33-8, and Olivet, 38-10. Fisher, Louis Carnasale, John Carnasale gained pins against Olivet; Doug Skinner and Phil Baty pinned Saginaw grapplers. Freshman 190-pounderJohn Krug, wres­tling two weight classes up, got two pins. He's lost only one match in two weeks. -The Observer 
The ND Ski Teamhas called a mandatory meeting for all newcomers and old hands to be held Wednesday night at 6 in the Lafortune Little Theatre. -The Observer 
The Irish women's track and field is recruiting members for its 1982-83 season. Interested parties are asked to con­tact Rose Marie Luking at 6896. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame boxers announce an organiza­tional meeting set for Thursday afternoon at 4 in the boxing room of the ACC. This meeting concerns anyone interested in participating in the 1983 Bengal Bouts. -The Observer 
The American Cancer Societywm conduct a free throw contest at the Madison School in South Bend on Saturday afternoon from 12 to 2. For more information, call the ACS at 234­4097. -The Obsen1er 
Lacrosse coach Rich O'Leary will hold a meeting for all those wishing to play on the Notre Dame varsity this spring on Wednesday afternoon at '-!:30. -The Obsen•er 
Weekend bas1~etball 
Friday's Result Notre Dame 74, Stonehill60 Stonehill (60) 
M FG-A  FT-A  R  F  P  
Krause  33  4-11  4-4  3  12  
F1ore  25  3-11  1-2  4  . 3  7  
Leonard  33  2-4  1-2  5  2  5  
Nocera  34  7-8  0-1  2  3  14  
R81tz  34  7 14  6-6  4  4  20  
Angel  1  0-1  0-0  0  0  0  
F1sher  1  0-0  0-0  0  0  0  
Jenk1ns  17  0-1  0-0  4  1  0  
Duff  3  0-0  0-0  0  1  0  
Dubie  1  0-0  0-0  0  0  0  
Johnson  17  0-3  2 2  2  2  2  
Hood  1  0-0  0-0  0  0  0  
200 23-53 14-17  22  19  60  
FG  Pet  434 FT  Pet  824 Team  
rebounds  - 6  Turnovers  -18  Ass1sts  -7  

(Krause 3. Nocera 3) Techntcals-None 
Notre Dame (74) 
M FG-A FT-A R F P Varner 29 9-18 3-4 8 3 21 Kempton 25 3-4 3-4 2 2 9 Barlow 35 7-7 0-1 6 3 14 Duff 12 0-0 0-0 0 3 0 Paxson 36 6-11 3-4 6 1 15 Buchanan 5 0-0 0-0 0 1 0 Rowan 14 1-5 2-2 1 0 4 Sluby 21 3-5 2-2 1 3 8 Pnce 4 1-2 0-0 0 1 2 Dolan 11 0-1 0-0 4 1 0 Rucker 3 0-1 1-2 0 0 1 Andree 5 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 200 30-55 14-19 28 18 74 
FG Pet 545 FT Pet 737 Team rebounds · 3 Turnovers -22. Ass1sts -22 (Duff 5, Paxson 4). Techmcals-None 
Halftime -Notre Dame 41. Stonehill 30 Of­ficials -Fred Jaspers. Jtm Rob1nson. Gtl Hag­gart A -10,617 
Saturday's Result 
Notre Dame 74, St. Francis 49 
St. Francis (49) 
M FG-A FT-A R F P Sharkey 30 0-6 0-0 2 1 0 Wagner 24 8-13 0-0 6 5 16 Schmttt 29 3-4 3-4 1 2 9 Hamilton 39 4-13 3-4 6 3 11 Ltghtntng 37 3-9 2-5 2 1 8 Rtdgeway 5 0-0 0-0 0 1 0 Joyce 1 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Stsler 19 0-6 0-0 1 1 0 Walters 2 0-0 1-2 0 0 1 Conway 13 1-5 0-0 4 4 2 Goodney 1 1-1 0-0 1 0 2 
200 20-57 9-15 23 18 49 
FG Pet 351 FT Pet 600 Team rebounds -3 Turnovers -10 Ass1sts -10 (Sharkey 3. Hamilton 2, L1ghtmng 2. R1dgeway 2) Techntcals-None 
Notre Dame (74) 
M FG-A FT-A R F P Varner 31 6-7 4-4 7 0 16 Kempton 22 2-2 3-5 3 4 7 Barlow 33 4-4 2-2 3 3 1 0 Sluby 9 2-3 0-0 0 1 4 Paxson 32 6-12 2-4 0 0 14 Buchanan 19 2-2 0-0 1 2 4 Duff 2 0-0 0-0 0 1 0 Rowan 4 2-4 0·0 3 0 4 Pnce 18 3-5 0-1 4 0 6 Dolan 16 2-3 0-0 4 1 4 Rucker 2 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 Andree 12 1-1 3-4 1 2 5 
200 3D-44 14-20 26 14 74 
FG Pet 682 t FT Pet. -700. Team rebounds · 4. Turnovers -11 Ass1sts -16 (Varner 3, Kempton 3). Technicals-None 
Halfttme -Notre Dame 32, St. Francts 27. Offtctals -George Solomon, Bob Showalter, Joe Kavullch A -11,164 
• • .St. Francls 
continuedfrompage 12 
its second game in less than 24 hours. The final score, 74-49. 
After the game, Coach Digger Phelps was pleased with his team's performance. "I'm impressed with our shooting perceentage." The Irish shot a sizzling 68 percent from the floor. Digger continued, "Rebounding is still my main con­cern, especially with Kentucky, UCLA, and Indiana coming up. Kempton must get more aggressive on the boards. He can play better than he played today." 
Digger was satistied with the play of the freshmen. "Barlow continues to amaze me." Barlow (6-I O. 205 pounds), was 1 I for 11 from the tloor over the weekend. Phelps added, "I want to sec him do it against Kentucky, UCLA. and In­diana. lie's got the potential to be a good player." 
"Joe Buchanon gave us a good 
game today." Digger concluded, "Price needed a game like this today as did Dolan." Price had a strong game and Dolan played a very good second half after a shaky first half in which he had three turnovers. 
Like in Friday night's game, Billy Varner led all scorers on Saturday af­ternoon. The senior from New Ken­sington, Pa. had 16 points. He also grabbed 7 rebounds to lead the team in that department for the second consecutive game. 
Captain John Paxson netted 14 points and played a solid all-around game. Ken Barlow had double figures for the second game in a row, this time with 10 points. 
"Now we get ready for Kentucky," said Phelps after the victory over St. Francis. "It will be a challenge for us and our players. Everyone expects us to lose all three of those games, but we'll take one at a time. Every­thing is still a question mark." 
'Crush' tourney 
Friday's Result 
UCLA women 82. Notre Dame women 5 
UCLA (82) 
M FG-A FT·A R F Jones 25 4-10 1-2 3 4 Joyner 24 5-8 0-0 7 2 Thompson 28 7-12 4-8 14 1 Hardy 25 3-9 0-0 0 0 McCoy 22 6-11 1-3 3 0 Hegarty 8 0-1 0-0 2 0 McFadden 14 2-6 0-0 0 0 Dean 14 4-8 0-0 1 3 Thurston 22 3-7 0-1 2 3 Alston 18 3-5 2-4 9 0 200 37-77 8-18 41 13 
FG Pet 481 FT Pet 444 Te rebounds -4 Turnovers -13 Ass1sts ­(McCoy 4, Jones 3, Hegarty 3). Techn1cal None 
Notre Dame (54) 
M FG-A FT·A R F Scheuth 29 3-9 0-2 4 2 Katser 16 1-5 0-1 1 0 Matvey 18 6-13 0-0 7 2 Hensley 21 0-2 0-0 0 1 Dougherty 35 4-9 2-2 3 1 Ebben 23 3-5 0-0 5 0 Keys 19 4-8 0-0 5 5 Basford 22 1-4 0-0 1 4 Bates 17 3-9 2-2 7 1 
200 25-64 4-7 33 16 5• 
FG Pet 391 FT Pet. 571 Tean rebounds -4 Turnovers -22 Asststs -1~ (Dougherty 7, Basford 4) Techntcals-None. 
Halfttme -UCLA 40. Notre Dame 24 Offi ctals-Molly Sapp. Margte Wnght A-1,349. 
Saturday's Result Rutgers women 81, Notre Dame women 7 Rutgers (81) M FG-A FT-A R F Glutz 20 4-8 8-10 5 3 1' Hall 32 8-17 4-6 2 4 Salmon 33 6-13 1-3 11 3 Lawrence 31 7-13 2-5 7 4 Paladmo 11 1-5 3-4 1 2 Adamson 7 1-2 0-0 1 1 Foley 20 2-8 2-2 1 4 Schwarz 29 0-2 1-2 2 2 Watts 17 1-6 0-0 6 2 200 30-74 21-32 36 25 FG Pet 405 FT Pet 656 Tea rebounds -7 Turnovers · 16 Assists ­(lawrence 5, Palad1no 5) Techmcals-Non Notre Dame (74) M FG-A FT-A R F Scheuth 23 2-6 4-6 12 2 Keys 14 4-4 0-0 2 0 Matvey 22 3-8 4-4 10 5 Hensley 13 0-0 0-0 2 3 Dougherty 35 6-14 2-5 2 3 Ebben 31 8-14 5-7 7 4 Basford 26 0-3 0-0 3 3 Bates 18 2-4 2-2 4 3 Katser 18 3-3 1-2 3 1 200 28-56 18-26 45 24 FG Pet 500 FT Pet 692 Tea rebounds 4 Turnovers -28 Asststs -1 (Dougherty 5. Ebben 5) Techmcals · Not1 Dame bench Halfttme Notre Dame 31. Rutgers 31 (liE A· 5.372 
'' 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Gmat revrew classes for Jan 29th exam beg1n Dec 4th Call Stanley Kaplan Educalional Center lor 1nfo .. 232-2366 or 272-4135 
TYPING, PAPERS. ETC . CALL 232· 7746. 4-9 p.m M·S 
Typrng wanted. fast, accurate. ex· 
per1enced. reasonable and close Call 
272-4105 
Typ1ng Ex-legal secretary 272-5337 
Busrness students tnterested 1n the nuclear rssue -hear Mr Erwrn Salk tontght at 7.30 tn Galvin Ltfe Sctence Audttorrum rn a presen-tatron from the vtewpotnt of a busrnessman 
Students tnterested rn the nuclear tssue -' don t mrss heanng Mr ErwH"t Salk tontght at 7 30 1n the Galvin L1fe Sc1ence Audttorrum tn a presentatron from the vrewpotnt of a bustnessman. 
ATTENTION CONNECTICUT ND-SMC STUDENTS Bus S1gn-ups TONIGHT! The cos11s $85 In La Fortune from 6:30­
7:30 Call788411 you have any quesllons 
\LOST/FOUND I 
LOST· A small sterrng stlver rosary. rf found call Julie at x283-6803 Has a great deal of sentimental value 
LOST: ONE GOLD MEN'S CHAIN M1ghl have been 1os11n lhe ACC on Mon­day 11/15 Please call Dav1d al x6931 
lnsh Tweert Cap--Gray LosI 11· I 0· 82. poss1bly 1n the library Call8350--ask lor M1ke Thanks ' 
REWARD'II Lost a1 Penn Slate Pep rally. one pa~r ol GORILLA COSTUME GLOVES If found. callS I 25 
Lost. A Bulova. Gold nmmed Watch It has a scratch mark on the face plate next to the numeral mne Los1 on Stepan F1eld on 11/1 7/82 afternoon If found please call George at 1418 
LOST -N Y ISLANDERS jacket at Corby s several weeks ago Calli 7781 ­reward 
LOST 1980 Bengal Bouts jacket Last seen rn Lyons parkrng lot Name rn tnsrde left pocket 
FOUND One very SICkly maiZe-colored umbrella and one semt-ugly turquotse pullover Jii:Cket fwrth your set of keys rn the pocket) All merchandiSe lound at the ProgressiVe Mus1k Club party after y all left them 1n your bopp1n lrenzy Call Rob· b1 at 3479 to cla1m 
LOST. a blue pla1d scarf. last Tuesday a1 Corby s. Reward 11 lound call LOUIS x4602 · 
RED UMBRELLA Lost. on Monday, November 29. between 12 15 and 1 OOp m 1n room 300 Cush1ng II was ly1ng on th~ book rack underneath lhe seat--three rows from the back of the room If you have any rnto that could lead me to the whereabouts of thts, please contact Leanne at 8983 or 7753! Please call, or we II have one very wet sopho­more on our hands!(lt s my only umbrella hereI!) Your at1ent1on regard1ng thiS mat­ter IS n1ghly apprec1ated! Thank-you 
50$ Reward For Lost SMC Class Rmg Please Call 5524 
FOUND-Set of Keys. room 324 ~~ SMC If yours call Glenn al 3248 and 1denllly key chain 
One exceptionally stupid and chagrined editor of this rag has tost his graphic arts portfolio: it is of no value to anybody but me, because only t could possibly justify this crud to anybody as art. Nonetheless, it does represent a summer's worth o1 profes~ sional graphics work, and I would ap­prec;iate It if anybody with a ctue to its whereabouts would call Joe at the Ob­server or at 283-3119. 
FOR RENT 
Siudenl Hous1ng Clean Sale $100/mo 291-1405 
SPACIOUS ONE BEDROOM UNFUR­NISHED APT GARAGE BSMT UTILITIES INC EXCE'PT ELEC L W W S BEND 240 00 A MONTH PLUS DEPOSIT 287-5535 
2-BED Apl heal a~r payed.appllances.hardwood lloors,$250 mo 123 s Eddy 233·6441 
WANTED 
REALLY NE'ED RIDE TO CENTRAL NEW YORK !ALBANY UTICA. SYRACUSE FOR XMAS BREAK---WILL SHARE USUAL ---CALL CHRIS AT 8573 OR 3510 ANYTIME 
RIDE' NEEDED TO "JYC FOR XMAS BREAK-WILL SHARE USUAL--CALL CHRIS AT 8573 OR 3510 ANYTIME 
WANTED. 1 !ICkel(sludent or GA) to Ken­tucky vs Noire Dame Call Dan al 277­3832 
NEED 2 PEOPLE TO SHARE N D APT "!EXT SEM 100 A MONTH CALL MIKE 1376.JOHN 8858 
FOR SALE J 
Couches. $30 & up. Cha~rs. $5 & up Call Mrs Cooper at 272-3004 after 12 noon Free deltvery to dorm 
ONYX CHESS SETS IMPORTED FROM MEXICO HAND CARVED ONYX CHESS SE'TS. IMP CALL 683-97S4 3-4 PM ONLY $32 50 BY ORDER ONLY 
Two F•rst Class Round Tnp Atrhne Ttckets from South Bend to any place Untted Illes · Call 232-6193 
3 2 cu ft dorm-stze refngerator Excellent cond1!10n $100 Call 234-2456 after 7 pm 
TICKETS 
NEED 2 STUDENT OR GA TIX FOR KENTUCKY GAME ASK FOR JOHN. 1768 
Need 2 UCLA GA's. Need to know as soon as oossiblet Have I student tick· et to trade plus $$1 Call ELLEN 284­5330 Thankat 
The Observer wtll accept classtfteds Mon­day througtl Fqday 10 am to 4 30 p m However. classtfteds to appear :n the next tssue must be recetved Dy 3 p.m. the bus,ness day pnor to 1nsert10n At I classtfteds must be prepaid etther 1n person or mrougllthe mad 
For Sdle 2 l11d1ana & Ken Gas lower -irena best oHer at 1739 
I need UK GAs Will trade$ or UCLA GAs 1178 
I NEED Kentucky Basketballlickets, stu­dent or GAs. CALL Joe al 1623 
FOR SALE 2 WHO TIX FOR THEIR DEC 8CONCERT BESTOFFER1195 
I NEED 1 UCLA STUD TCKT WILL GIVE $ AND/OR 2ND SEMESTER TCKT PACKAGE FOR IT CALL DAN AT 1744' 
NEED KENTUCKY,UCLA,IU GA TtCK­ETS.PETE 232-1466 
! PERSONALS 
My dream-come-true. 1m head over heels tn love wtth you Who says Chegs have no fun? Mtlan 
If 111sn 1KENTUCKY, 111sn t •oasketball -­Kentucky Dan Go W1ldca1s. beat lnsh! KENTUCKY KENTUCKY KENTUCKY KENTUCKY ~ENTUCKY KENTUCKY What s B1g ana Blue and eats sk1nny little lnshmen as appetiZers? KENTUCKY WILDCATS!II Go Demck. go J1m. go Mel­vin, go Tom. go Todd. go Brei. go Dirk!' Joe 8 Joe B Joe B WILDCATS WILDCATS WILDCATS 
Bustness students tnterested m the nuclear tssue -hear Mr Erwtn Salk tontght 17·30 1n Galvrn Lrte Scrence Audrtonum .n a presentatron lrom the vrewpornt of a 
~usrnessman 
Hey Zurch Aren t Thea maJo,·s suppose to have morals 
BrKJge1 N1ckodernus 
'IE[C' fiiDE FOR 2 -o ') 1-tARE FRICAY· 'rlE 3rd ~BLE TO LEAVE AT 2 30 WILL SH'IRE USUAL CALL JOE AT-··---1 067 
Kathleen-Q What do you call a danc1ng quarterbacK? A A polka-Odot!! Love. You-know-who 
MJC-WELCOME BACK!!! M1ssed you' No papers thrs week busy tonrghP You ve got my numberr Erleen 
MIDNIGHT EXPRFiSS Nov 30. Dec 2 7 DO. 9 15. 11 30PM Sponsored by lhe NO Rugby Club 
Hey Counselor. To hxlt wrth caprtahsm! Lets go to Austrarlla Thanks for all youve done lor me. from The Eastern Seaboard to the M1dwestem lmmrgratron Bureau couldn t have made r: -Nrlhout you Love, 
Bro.,·n-Ey~d-Grrl 
ATTENTION CONNECTICUT ND·SMC STUDfNTS Bu• S1gn-ups TONIGHT! Cost IS $85 In La Fonune from 6 30 · 7.30 II you have any questons call 7884 
Kathr-Drd you lose an ythrng over break 7 And rf rt came easy-drP you take rt twrce?! Have d great B·day and now that you re no longer 1a11 ball maybe we should warn all good looking men over 6 ft Love ya, 
Beth Anne Mane & Margo 
Happy 18th Kathr 1 Now that you re a' woman hope you gel a REAL MAN. GOs apply at SMC 4116 Amaretto also ac· ceptable Love Cyn 
I'he Observer Tuesda), November 30, 1982 .._ page 9 
By UCLA, Rutgers 
Irish outgunned at Horizon 
By MIKE RICCARDI 
!>ports Writer 
ROSE:\tONT, Ill. -"AtleaM," said \tary DiStanislao. "we jumped into it with both feet" 
:'lolotre Dame·~ sea~on-opening foray into the land of national women·~ basketball powers resulted 
in a pair of defeats, 82-54 to UCLA and 81-74 to Rutgers University, and a fourth-place finish in the Orange Crush Tournament at The Horizon here over the weekend. 
In Saturday's consolation game 
with 14th-ranked Rutgers, a rough­
and-tumble contest which saw 49 
fouls called between the two teams, 
the Irish women built an early 13-4 
lead. 
'Crush' boxes -seepage 8 
Lynn Ebben led the Notre Dame offense, scoring 10 first-half points on her way to a game-high 21. The 5-ll freshman hit four 12-foot jump shots to maintain the Irish ad­vantage. But while Ebben's perimeter game kept Notre Dame on top, Rutgers' Jennie Hall and Lorrie Lawrence got hot, allowing the Scarlet Knights to stay within striking distance, six points behind. 
"The turning point," said Ci''Lanis­lao, "was that we were on the verge of a double-figure lead and it (the opportunity) evaporated." 
Another turning point came as a result of RU's aggres!'>ive play. The Lady Knight defense turned un­ladylike, as Ruth Kai!'>er and Tr~na Keys were both abused under the ND hasket. Kaiser returned to the game in the second hal[ but Kevs ~uffered an ankle ~prain a~d returned to court.~itk later in the game ...on crutdlt·~. 
''(Key~·) foot wa~ ~tepped on. and Ruth ( Kai~t·r) wa~ literall~ punched," said \lary D. "Rutgers wa~ plaving street·hall." 
The lo~~ ofKevs, which cau1e with a minute !eli in the first half anJ th~ lrbh clinging to a :'>1·2-lead, took the starch out of '\fotre Dame'~ game and Rutgers wa~ able to gain a halftime tie on Dehhie Paladino·~ 12­l(lOt jumper withy, seconds left. 
"She wa~ ddinitcly on a tear." s;1id 
DiStanislao of the (>-I fre~hman. "It'~ 
likt• ~eeing Secrt·tariat or \1ikc 
Schmidt going down. She's the 
franchise.·· 
DiStani!->lao. upset at ~eeing two of 
her !'>tarrers ahusnl. lectured the 
referees on foul-calling technique 
during the oftkial time out for Keys' 
injury and gained a technical foul for 
her effort~. 
"I just lo!->t my compo!->ure," she 
!'>aid. "But a mother·~ gotta protect 
her young." 
Notre Dame stood tied at halftime 
despite the re-emergence of an old 
nemesis. DiStanislao. who had 
hoped that the Irish would cut down 
on last season's average of 22 tur­
novers per game, lost the handle 19 
times in the tirst half. They coughed 
up the ball ';0 times in the tourna­
ment. 
Hall's 12-foot jumper from the left side early in the second half began 
...Stonehill 
continuedfrom page I 2 
cern for Notre Dame as they head in­
to a storm on the schedule with 
three games against Top Ten teams 
(Kentucky, CCLA, and Indiana) 
coming up this week. Stonehill's 
starting lineup wa!'> very small (two 
6-.~forwards and a 6-'; center on the 
front line), yet the Irish only out­
rebounded the Chieftains by three. 
"They were getting the offensive 
boards because of the situations 
created by our turnovers." said 
Phelps. "But we've got to do a better 
job on the board~." 
Notre Dame increased its record to 65-1 5 in sea..~on openers and is now 2-0 in the all-time series against the Cheiftains. The lri!->h beat Stonehill 9H--o in the ACC during the 19~6-19-~ campaign. 
an· eight-point Rutger~ ~pun that barely heat Notre Dame at the ACC resulted in a "!:'>-:'>6 Knight lead, one last year. which they would not relinquish. l'CLA coach Billie \toore has 
The Knights' 6-:'> center. Julie Sal­rebuilt her team for speed, and the mon, scored seven points in a two­Bruin women sprinted to a -t0-2-t minute stretch that saw Rutgers halftime lead. Tournament M\'P expand its lead to l 5 points. Necie Thompson led the Bruins 
Another streak in a game shaped with 18 points and l "! rebounds, and by streaks began with a pair of free freshman :\tichelle McCoy added 15 throws. by NO's Shari Matvey. Mary points. Beth Scheuth and Laura Dougherty Ebben, Keys and Denise Basford (who scored 12 second-half points, combined for 16 points in their exploiting the opening left by the Notre Dame debuts. "Trena had five double-team coverage of Ebben) fouls and Denise had four, so they combined for l 0 down the stretch as went at it with abandon," said DiS­the Irish were able to climb back in­tanislao. "The.y have the quality of to the contest. Notre Dame pulled to 'going at it."' within five points before Carol Mary D. was able to remain op­Glutz' four free throws shut the door timistic, however. on Notre Dame's comeback bid. "It's just the beginning of a 2~­
"l was happy that they were able game season," she said. "And now, 
to get back in the game after they we'll get to explore a new facet of pulled away," said DiStanislao. "That our character -our resiliency." was the first time we've ever gotten IRISH ITEMS -The Irish will back into a ballgame like that. It was test their resiliency Thursday in a good effort to bounce back from their home opener against an old the blowout last night, and a poten­nemesis, Butler. Game time will be tial blowout tonight" 7::'>0 p.m.....Notre Dame will have 
The "blowout last night" took to face Butler without Keys, whose place in the tournament's first round injured ankle will be rested this Friday, when the Irish women were week ...The Irish women will host outrunned and outgunned by UCLA, next year's Orange Crush Tourna­82-54. The Bruins, who went on to ment ...The opposition will be USC, win the tournament by upsetting Tennessee and Maryland, who cur­No. 7 Georgia '5-57 Saturday, rently are ranked No. l, "! and 6, looked nothing like the team that respectively, in the nation. 

Notre Damefreshman Ken Barlowputs up a shot ot•erStonehi/l's GeorgeLeonard(left) in Friday night's ~4-60 Irish win. This bucket counted for two of Barlow's 14 points as fellow freshman Tim Kempton (right) looks on. (Photo by Scott Bower) 
: .;M;~m.~.r.Y. ..~.Jlqlg,~1.l~.~.:.. • 
• 1723 South Bend Ave. -at the Butler's Pantry • • (walking distance from cam11us) ••• Hotre Dame/Saint Mary's Student Special ••
i 12 exposure film $5.50 i 
• double print of each negative includes processing : : wlstudent photo I.D. • 
: Hotre Dame/Saint Mary's Special$ : 10 DJo Discount on all work done here 
······················•••¥¥+•••••• 
Presenting High Bias IT and the Ultimate Tape Guarantee. 
Memorex presents High Bias II, a tape so extraordinary, we're going to guarantee it forever. 
We'll guarantee life-like sound. 
Because Permapass:" our unique oxide bonding process, locks each oxide particle-each musical detail-onto the tape. So music stays live. 
Notjust the lst play Or the lOOOth. Butforever. 
We'll e:u.arantee the cassette. 
Every fa~~t ofour cassette is engineered to protect the tape. Our waved-wafer improves tape-Wind. Silicone-treated rollers insure smooth, precise tape alignment. Housing is made strong by a deSign unique to Memorex. 
We'll guarantee them forev·er. 
Ifyou are B'Jer dissatisfiedwith Memorex High Bias II, mail us the tape and we'll replace it free. 
YOU'LL FOREVER WONDER, 
IS IT LIVI,
DR IS IT -~.~· 
,.
MEMOREX~ 

The Observer Tuesday, November 30, 1982 -page 10
' 
' 

Notre Dameforward Bi/~J' Varner ( 34) blocks the inbound pass ofSt. Francis']im Conwa)' (42) in Saturday's 74-49 ND 11ictory at the ACC. Varner was th~ high point ma'n in both of this past weekend's l 1ictories, which Will Hare and Stez1e Labate summarize on th back page. (Photo by Scott Bower) 
... 
Finish 6-4-1 
Irish lose to USCon disputed TD 
By ED KONRADY 
.\f}{)rfs Writer 
LOS AN<iELES Saturday ~·as a titting c:nd to thi~ year·~ football sea~on. A tc:am that evc:n it~ critics admitted had c:nough talc:nt to beat all the: opponents on their tough schedule, lost its fourth game:. 
Notre Dame lost to Southern California 17-15. c:nding USC coach John Robinson's career on a high. al­though otfkey, note. 
"We've had an up-and-down year," said tifth-year senior Kevin (irittith. "I've: been hc:re live: years and we havc:n't beaten Southern Cal yet. I can't think of a worse way to lose this game, on had officiating calls." 
The game katured two dbputed calb within ';O ~econd~ of each other. After Chri~ Brown interfc:rc:d with l SC'~JdfSimmons, who endc:d up with I I catch6 for 1·!9 yards and three: school record~. on the !-yard line, quartc:rhack Scott Tinslq handed off to tailback :\1ichad liar· pc:r who jumped over the goal line. 
But did he do it with the hall' 
Three: days later, the: answtT seem~ to he an emphatic "no." A replay by ESPN and a picture: by The Associated Press on the: hack pagt· shows Harper fumbling before crossing the goal line. 
However, the score will Mand for posterity. But the call that was even more upsetting was the one tha[ wasn't made. On the final play of the gar:~t·. tight end ronv Hunter, plaving in his final game:. ran a po"t pattern into the end zone. The pa~s by Blair Kid wa~ on targt·t. but the ball wa~ hlockt·d away. Howevc:r. Irish followt·r,., felt that safety Joey Browner intc:rft:red with Hunter at the goal line, knocking him off stride. and again when they both went up for the hall. 

"I think I got interfered with," said Hunter. "The hall'~ coming down. I went up to get it. and the next thing I know, I'm on my hack. I don't usual­ly just fall on my back for no reason." 
Mike Haywood was next to Hun­ter on the play. His view: "Tony was interferred with. Browner was all over him. It was a lob play, and the wide outs we supposed to converge to the ball. Tony jumped up and they were all over him. I expected a flag, but the referee just grabbed the ball and ran off the field." 
Griffith was not surprised by the lack ofa call. "On that last play, Tony Hunter was interfered with, I really believe that. But they're not going to call that. We're here, at USC, and with this crowd here, they'd be dead. Dead." 
Instead, it was Irish hopes for a salvaged season that were killed. The Irish clearly outplayed the Trojans, netting 394 yards oftotal of· fense to USC's 297 and 24 tlrst downs to 18 for the Trojans. The of­fense, especially in the first half. moved the ball crisply under the direction of the returned gener.1l, Kiel, who completed 18 out of 55 passes for 201 yards ana two inter­ceptions. 
Hunter was his main target with seven receptiuns for 91 yards. with Haywood picking up some clutch third down catches. finishing with four receptions for 34 yards, all of them in the first half 
"I thought I had a fair perfor­mance," said Haywood. "I could have had a bt:tter game if I could have got open more, but Browner and Darrel Hopper were dropping too far into the coverage in the zones and Icouldn't get open deep." 
For the Trojans, the game con­sisted of Tinsley to Simmons for success. The duo combined for eleven receptions. most of them at the expense of cornerback Brown. Time and time again Tinsley found the fleet senior in desperate situa­tions, such as the goal line inter­ference call that set up the disputed touchdown. 
'One for thefatguy' 
Notre Dame 7 3 3 0 13 usc 0 3 7 17 
Scoring ND-Monarty 2 run (Johnston krck) ND-Johnston 40 FG usc -Jordan 35 FG ND-Johnston 47 FG USC-Harper 5 run (Jordan kick) USC-Harper 1 run (Jordan krck) 
NO usc F1rstdowns 24 18 
Rushrng anempts 47 27 Net Yards Rushrng 191 54 Net Yards Passrng 201 243 Passes comp-allempted 18-36 24-37 Had rntercepted 2 1 Total Net Yards 392 297 Fumbles-lost 1-1 1·0 Penaltres-yards 8-63 6-60 Punts-average 4-43 3 7-45.3 Individual Leaders 
RUSHING -Notre Dame Carter 19-82. Ponkell 11-43: Monarty 7-39: Koel7-11. Howard 1-10: Brooks 2-6: USC. Grbson 12-46: Harpar 5-19. Pola 2-4: Lee 1·3: Spencer 1-1. Trnsley 1-( -19): 
PASSING-Notre Dame Koel35-18-2.201: Kar­cher 1-0-0.0: USC: Tinsley 37·24-1.243. RECEIVING -Notre Dame Hunter 7·91. Haywood 4-34. Carter 3·16. Howard 2-42. Prnkett 1­
19. Monarty 1-(-1): USC Srmmons 11·149. Whole 3­
31: Kamana 3-22: Boyer 2-15. Harper 2-15. Grbson 
2-6: McCool1·5. Attendance-76.459 
~~PFTI3~~ 
r Rocco's Hair :~ 
I[~ JStyling I
I' L.~ .~
• 
1 531 N. M1ch1gan St..  ~  
~  South Bend  - 
~  Phone 133-4957  I  

il:ao•· n •n r aul 
-... 

Ihe~rver=========== 
T0 d~x==============T=u=e=sd=a=v='=N=o=v=e=m=b=e=r=3=0='=1=9=8=2==p=a=g=e=l=I 
Doonesbury 

Simon 
Fate 
KJKTZ/'\f I JuS! EfCAUS[ YoLiv£ U01 so MUCH ~RJ( -ro 0£T CA~HI uP ON 
Uor·J'r E'XPtCf All'~ PITY ' -" \='R.Ot-'1 t-1£ I 

I 5WCAR,51/J, THAT'5 
YOU'RE­AU I N&&O IF I OON7 
{¥<£AM­7VRN ITINTO ~ti I Mf!.I.ION IN6, K/0. BY NUTMONO.AY IU 
I PAY YOU 8//Ci< OOUBJ£' 
I 
SIMON? WHAT'5 WROAt. 
WHY ARENT YOU BACK 
FROM 'BREAK! 
,. -·­
-
f>-~H:r<. AU.., WHAT Do Yoll E..l<VECJ Wflf.N. )(Ill DON'T 
Do 1-.NY WofZK ALL S£1"\£\;ICR l(t 
\ /.;,•' 


IICrer ~ill... WN 'f c~ ,'JtVer cOOle .., WH£(\E ?! HATE 
f.J ... rorr.hlr... WI\Af! !?~IMON 
:"I hate... IA/HC:r?£ A J: V~><lf\
1\lre•t--doot rvLI' ~tl..<.l .. 
(~)(!!( •. l. hiltc... 

WHA'f DC. 'IW.. Mt.AI·P 
1'VE. W'O RKW HARD 
EVtR.J' Dtl~ THI~ 
Garry Trudeau 
Hft. HEt! OK4Y ACT/JAJJ..Y, MAN I ru 8/Tt IU NEElJ IT IN 5MAU HAvt M/1661& 8fU.5. JU5THAVE­
ORAW UPA H&R PUT IT IN 
CH&C!< A PI/PER 5//Ck 
\ \ 
f =--~\' ~~ 
/' ~ ' (_ ' .,
'""-::Tj; ·"
,-'. J-:>C[
<'/~ '· -~' 
!(____~~-'··1(1·-~'!·
~~~ 
~ ·~_)~"-----}
',.~
::::-·--· ·-·-··::cc:-==ft 
. 1f 
<;:::::?' GB~av......-:. 
Jeb Cashin 
... teoo~ylvJ11id.... (&tbP!) 
. j't..OP.­
{ I I '\­~ 
Photius 
~S A MATIE'R DF FflCT, I Jusr FiNilHED WOIZKIN9 ON TI-lt LOH·/ 


The Daily Crossword 
©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
, S I . 4 Surpass
Last TUeSday S0 UtlOfi5 Censure 

6 "Damn Yankees" role 
7 Muslim 
title 8 Indefinite 9 Chocolate 
trees 10 Ishmael's superior 
11 Kind of league or express 
12 Peacock feather 
• 11/JO/BZ feature 
58 Menageries 59 Lett's neighbor 61 River in Ireland 62 Nautical adverb 63 Colorof 
raw silk 
64 Legal paper 
65 Use scis· sors 
66 Summoned, with "for" 
DOWN 1 Gumshoe 2 Part of 
USA: abbr. 
3 City near Pyramid Lake 
15 Good or 
kind ending 18 Relax 21 Dirigible 24 Savory 
jelly 25 Section 26 Ski resort 27 Condemns 28 AKA 29 Dog's 
disease 
31 Procras· tina tor's promise 
32 Musical Shaw 33 Hasn't 
permission 35-Lanka 36 Devoured 39 Fragrant 
resin 40 Flowers 45 Was impu· 
dent 47-au rhum 49 -·podrida 50 Pound 51 Make a 
tunnel 52 Topflight 53 Men have 24 54 Solar deity 55 Asian 56 Pleasing 57 Merit 58 Last in a 
series 60 Filbert 
Campus : 
•-I:30 p.m. -Biology Seminar, "The Hormonal Regulation of Oocyte Final Maturation and Ovula­tion in Teleost Fish," Dr. Frederick Goetz, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 
•7, 
9:15 and 11:30 p.m. -Film, "Midnight Express," Engineering Auditorium, Sp.:mso;ed by Rugby Club, S 1 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "tangley and the Wrignt Brothers--The Race for the First Powered Flight," Prof)ohn D. Anderson Jr., Library Auditorium 

•"':30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Enlightened Self-Interest in the Nuclear Age: A Businessman's View," Erwin 

A. 
Salk, Jr., Galvin Lite Sciences Auditorium, Sponsored by Notre Dame Coalition for Peace 

•H:IS 
p.m. -Recital, Michael Yasenchak, graduate horn recital, Annenberg Auditorium 

•9 
p.m. -Life Issues Seminar, Discussion of Helm~ and Hyde Amendments, Dr. Charle~ Rice, Little Theatre, LaFortune, Sponsored by ND/S:\1C Right to Life 


T.V. Tonight 
6:00p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7:00p.m. 
7:30 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 
10:00 p.m. 11 p.m. 
11:30p.m. 
Br.an
1 
16 NcwsCenter 16 28 Newswatch 28 34 5·2·1 Contact 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS News 28 ABC World News Tonight 34 :\laking It Count 16 M•A•s•H l2 Laverne & Shirley 28 joker's Wild 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 16 Allin The family 22 family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 16 !'ather Murhpy 22 · Bring 'Em Back Alive 28 Happy Days 34 Nova 28 Laverne and Shirk~ 16 (;avilan l2 CBS Tuesday "'ight l\l(n·•e 28 Three's Company 34 ,\1YSTERY! 28 9To 5 16 St. Ebcwhere 28 Hart to Hart 34 Sound festival 16 NcwsCenter 16 22 22 Eycwitness"News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Dick Cavett Show 16 Tonight Show 22 Quincy & McMillan & Wife 28 ABC "Jews Nightlinc 
The saga of a 6 month old domer. 
..,.. 
1.­
ACROSS 1 Poi source 5 Uninter· 
esting 
9 Ann or May 13 Ratite: var. 14 Salesman 
of fiction 16 Nautical call 17 Bring 
together 19 Flog 20 Mia Farrow 
movie 22 Mao fol· 
lower 23 Road sign 24 Separated 27 TVA project 30 Faith 
of7D 34 Grenada 
assent 35 Low bow 37 Parseghian 38 "Peanuts" 
.character 41 Diamonds, slangily 
42 Printer's concern 43 Dresden 
turndown 44 Perfume, 
in a way 46 Compass pt. 47 Headwear 48 Latin 
I verb 50 Headwear 51 Sherlock 
Holmes portrayer 

******************************************* 
the Notre Dame Student Union presents: the Midwest's hottest band 
Duke Tumotoe 
ond the 
All Star Frogs 
Saturday December 4 9:00·12:30 
$2
in Chautauqua LaFortune Ballroom 
******************************************* 
0 0 0 
N.D.S.U. Presents: 
John Wayne 
in 
Plus a "Little Rascals" short feature Tonight at Chautauqua LaFortune Ballroom 8:00, 10:00 $1 
o a o o o a ~-a o o o 




Faust 
denies 
rumors 
Notre Dame head football coach Creecy Faust yesterday. denied tuntors that surfaced over the weekend tl:t.at he has sub­mitted his reslgniiti.on; 
"No, I'm not quitting," Faust told The Observer ~'>t night. "We've got the program going right now, and things are shaping up. Our guys are starting tocome around; they really tame on at the end ofthe season. 
"Those (rumors) happen all the time. You know, I always wanted to start one myself sometime as a joke Just to see what would happen." 
No one really knowswhere the rumor originally surfaced, al­though many PQint to a report broadcast on the ESPN'cable net­work Saturday fotlowing ND's 1 7-13 loss w USC The report said that Faust had given his resignation to Athletic Director Gene Corrigan, and that former Irish coach Ara Parseghian was to be named as his replacement. 
"Some guy from ESPN stuck a camera in rny face and asked me tbat on Saturday,'' said Corrigan. "I told him it was the dumbest thing I'd ever heard. I don't want hirn (Faust )to even think about that." 
"Ara called me today, in fact," Faust said "He was realty upset. He told me be had nothing to do with it, that he was through coaching. l never even thought 
... 
Irish win two, await Kentucky 
Varnerscores 21 to beat Stonehill 
ByWILLHARE 
Sports Writer 
Small but good. 
Notre Dame found out that the phrase that often describes tiny Stonehill College also applies to their basketball team, as the Irish struggled to an 74-60 win in their season opener Friday night. 
Bill Varner scored 21 points to lead the Irish, whose sloppy play allowed the visiting Chieftains to stay close the entire game. Although Notre Dame shot well from the tleld (30 of 55, 5--l. 5 per cent), they com­mitted 22 turnovers -something they did not accomplish in any game last season. 
"We lacked concentration in 
many situations," said Irish coach 
Digger Phelps. "We can't have 22 
turnovers against anybody." 
Stonehill, a Division II team from North Easton, Mass., suffered its tirst setback after three victories this season. Bob Reitz, a 6-4 senior swingman who came into the game averaging 27.~ points per game. topped Chieftain scorers with 20. 
The game was played before 10,617 fans at the Athletic and Con­vocation Center. 
The Irish brok t e away from a 1 0· 10 tie to open up two I ~-point leads in the tirst half and held a 41-30 ad­vantage at intermission. 
Notre Dame extended the lead to 61-48 with I0:~2 remaining only to 1 see Stonehill outscore them 10-4 and cut the margin to 65-58 with 
4:47 lpft_ 
The Irish then rallied for nine straight points. A pair ofJohn Paxson free throws, followed by a terrific pass from reserve Tom Sluby to Var­ner for a three-point play upped Notre Dame's lead to 12. 
"Siuby always has good eye con­tact with the other players," said Varner. "It was just a really good pass." 
Pax~on then led a fast break and assisted freshman Ken Harlow's slam dunk. This was followed by a Varner layup from freshman Joe Price that tlnally seale.d the Notre Dame tri­umph. 
"It was a tough game," added Slubv, who scored eight points olf the ·bench. "I think we weren't prepared enough mentally and that led to the mistakes." 
"I was kind of ashamed of having four turnovers," stated Varner. "We underestimated Stonehill. It is my job as a senior to get the guys (his teammates) pumped up." 
For Varner, it was a rare chance to 
claim Irish scoring honors. Only 
once last season did Varner lead 
Notre Dame's scoring list ( 22 points 
in a 70-65 loss to Northern Illinois). 
"They keyed on Paxson," said Var­
ner, "so I just tried to loosen things 
up for John." 
Paxson scored I 5 points, while 
Harlow hit all seven of his field goal 
attempts for 14 points. Another 
freshman making his debut, Tim 
Kempton, tallied nine. 
Rebounding is also a major con-See STONE HILL, page 9 
Second-halfoutburst keys St. Francis rout 
By STEVEN LABATE 
Sports Writer 
After its debut victory over Stonehill on Friday evening, the Notre Dame basketball team had just enough time to get in a good night's sleep and breakfast the following morning before hustling back over to the ACC for its afternoon matchup with St. Francis ( Pa.). If the Irish were the least bit tired or un­prepared they certainly didn't show it as they defeated the Red Flash 74­49. 
Notre Dame wasted no time in breaking out into a lead that they would never relinquish. When Tim Kempton blocked a shot, dribbled to mid-court, and fed a streaking Tom -Sluby tor a one-handed slam dunk, 
the  score  wa.~  7-0 and St.  Francis  
decided to talk things over.  
After their time out, St.  Francis  

pulled no closer, but did manage to score. However Notre Dame Coach Digger Phelps could not have been pleased with the way they scored. St. Francis' first ten points wen: _the result ofsecond ami third shots after misses. 
Two Tim Andree foul shots made the score 21-1 0, and gave Notre Dame its biggest lead of the half, 11 points. It appeared the Irish would run away with the game early, but St. Fr t ancis had other ideas. 
With H:~5 to go in the half, Jeff Hamilton hit a 17-foot jumper to give the Red Flash heir first points of 
an offensive rebound. This was due 
not only to poor shooting, but to ag­
gressive man-to-man defense that 
the Irish were playing. 
St. Francis clawed back, and at in­termission the Irish were up by only five points, 32-27. Notre Dame had a shooting percentage of.630 ( I2-19) as compared to St. Francis' .~60 ( 12­3~). But the Irish were out­rebounded 18 to 13, and thus the spread was closer than it should have been. 
In the second half, the teams traded baskets until nine and a half minutes elapsed on the clock. Then the Irish put the game away with 1·1 unanswered points. 
After the Red H.tsh's Louis ~chmitt 
hit a short jumper to pull St. Francis 
to within tlve points, 49---i't. the Irish 
began their rampagl-. 
Freshman Ken Barlow started the streak with a pair of free throws. John Paxson then hit consecutive baseline jumpers. A few seconds later Paxson stole the ball and threw a fullcourt pass to Varner who scored on an uncontested layup. 
After a St. Francis timeout, Fresh­manJoe Price assisted another fresh­man,Jim Dolan, and thq· scored on a layup himself to put the Irish up by 19, 6~-44. St. Francis forward Mike Wagner ended his team's drought, but after he did the Irish reeled of nine more unanswered points to make the score 72-46. A little over a minute later, Notre Dame had won 
See ST. FRANCIS, page 8 
--------------------------------------------~------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, November 30, 1982 -page 12
S_~orts 
The winning touchdown? 
This photo by The Associated Press shows USC tuilback Michael HarperJumbling well before he reached the gout line in Saturday's Notre Dame­Southern Cal game at the Los Angeles Coliseum. The referees, after a discussion, ruled thut Harper crossed the goal line with the ball, gil•ing SC a 


