.see Absurdity -page 2
' ' 

VOL. XVI, NO. 139 THllRSDAY, APRIL 29, 1982
the indcpcndt·nt ~tutil'nl n1.:w~papl'r ~erving notre Jamc and ~ailll mary·~ 
Around Falklands 
Britaindeclares 'totalw-ar zone' 
(AP) Britain yesterday meeting of the Organization of The announcement bolstered declared a "total" war zone 200 American States. speculation that Mrs. Thatcher, her miles around the Falkland Islands, Fischer said Haig has submitted patience exhausted with Argentina's Argentina's navy was reported in the proposals to resolve the crisis to failure to withdraw its troops after zone ready to fight and the United both London and Buenos Aires "and seizing the islands on April 2, is now States warned the situation had we are awaiting a response." ready to order the British armada to reached a critical point. However, the senior U.S. official recapture the Falklands in an all-out 
The Defense Ministry in London said Haig believes "time is getting assault. said the "total exclusion zone" 
very, very short" because of "the British government sources would take effect at 7 a.m. EDT 

movement of military forces." reported a Cabinet meeting held tomorrow, and the British 
The war zone announced hy the shortly before the war zone an­Broadcasting Corp. said there was a 
British Defense Ministry extended nouncement produced "no fresh op· strong possibility of a British attack the maritime blockade of April 12 timism" that a negotiated setlement Friday night or Saturday morning. 

that was designed to prevent Argen­can be reached. 
It said Prime Minister Margaret tina from rcinti.>rcing the Falklands "The situation is extremelyThatcher has "taken her gloves off." 

by sea. Argentine planes have con­tense," one British defense source in British defense sources said 
tinued to fly in troops hut large ships

weather conditions in the South At­See BRITAIN, page 5
have kept out.

lantic were "deteriorating rapidly, with 70 mile·an·hour winds on the way," heightening speculation that Britain's armada would act_ ~uicklY.­
0 'Mearadefends ND's

Argentina, while saying it was studying a U.S. peace plan relayed by Secretary ofState Alexander M. llaig 

retirement policy 

Jr., put its forces on "maximum alert" and predicted a British attack 
By MARK WORSCHEH O'Meara commenced that these on the ralklands in 2•1 to 48 hours. 
News Editor appointments are separate from Argentine naval sources in 
retirement, and thus are not really Buenos Aires said the nation's tleet 
When faculty members reach age continuations ofemployment. 

was deployed in the South Atlantic, 
65 the University feels "no moral Professor Emeritus James Danehy including the announced "total ex­
obligation to keep them on," said called this appointment system clusion /.one." Provost Timothy O'Meara. "exploitation" in an interview last "We'rt· doing all we can through 
O'Meara, in an intt·rview yester­November, saying that Notre Dame diplomatic channels to avoid a war, 
day, outlined Notre Dame's policy takes advantage of emeriti simply but if they (the British) want war, 
on retirement in light of President because they reach a certain age. they will have it because we will Carter's Age Discrimination in Danehy unsuccessfully sued the have no alternative hut to defend Employment Act. The 1977 act university in 1976, charging that the oursdves against an attack," said one raised the retirement age to 70; retirement policy contradicted the of the sources. who requested however, the law excluded univer­idea of tenure, "permanence of ap­anonymity. sities until july 198.2. pointment." In Washington, a senior State He said the major impact of the O'Meara responded, "The basic Department official who declined to new law would he on the "young reason for permanence is for Kenny Roxers entertained a large crowd last night at the ACC. 


he idcntitied said, "We arc now at a point where it is almost imperative that the two sides agree" to U.S. proposals to end the contlict. 
Regarding thc British war zone an­nouncement, Dean Fischer, the State Department spokesman, said, "Jt is quite clear in light of this announce­ment that the crisis has reached a critical point." 
lie also said consideration was being given to another meeting be­tween Haig and Argentine Foreign Ministcr Nicanor Costa Mendcz, who was in Washington for a coming in" to the fa<·ulty. With more professors working longer, fewer positions will be available for these younger instructors. 
O'Meara also defended the Uni­versity's general policy on retire­ment, saying, "sure it's tair." 
This policy, as outlined in the faculty handbook, requires a faculty member to retire and beLume emeritus on the t1rst day of July following his or her 65th birthday (70th after July). Members can work past retirement age, but only on a year-to-year appointment basis. 




New faculty building design unveiled 
The l'nivcrsitv of Notre Dame\ new faculty oflice building is 
lkpktnl in this a·rti~t 's ~ketch. Built in three four-story .section~. wtth 
lobbv t·ntrann·~ to the southeast and northwest, it will occupy a site 
heht;ul ()'~haughnc~:-.y Ifall, where the bulk of classes in the collcgt~ 
of Art~ and Letter~ arc taught. Its future occupants have been housed 
in the basetnull of the Memorial Library sitKe its construction in 
196.-\. The structure will have about .2"i0 offices, a fantlty lounge, a conkrenct· room. some small seminar rooms, and a ~ecretarial pool. The site will he cleared this summer, with bids expected to be awarded in October and completion set for May, 198·1. Project coM is estimated at S7.2 million. Architects arc Ellerbe Associates. Inc.. Bloomington, Minn. 
(photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
See TENURE, page 3 
500GSL 's involved 

Student loan applications heldup 
By KATHLEEN DOYLE ter to stop a tax credit bill. students. Also included in the 
StaffReporter "The Middle Income Bill was proposals is a suggestion to allow 
changed by the Omnibus Recon­the interest rate of the loan to float 
About 500 unprocessed ciliatory Act of 198L Now those to the prime rate after two years of 
Guaranteed Student Loan applica­families with an annual income over repayment by the student. 
tions lie idly in the office of joseph 530,000 must provc their need." "With this proposal Reagan may 
Russo, director of t1nancial aid. By Under the new legislation, ap­be suggesting that his recovery 
next week there will be I 000 such plicants would have to fill out a program will work and the interest 
applications. Simple Needs Test, developed by ra~c won't be all that bad." 
"The hold-up is due to the federal the federal government. It would be The status of the Pcll Grant (Basic 
government's delay in issuing next much like the present Financial Aid Educational Opportunity Grant) is 
year's regulations on processing. At Form and would ask questions about still unknown. Russo anticipates a 
a meeting held earlier this week I income, family size, social security small reduction in this area with the 
was told that we probably won't amount ofeach grant being reduced 
receive thcm until the first weck of by approximately S.250.
THURSDA Ylll111: 
June," Russo said. "About onc-third "The problem with the Pell Grant of the states ha11,t: contacted us and is that it has not becn updated in the asked us not to process any loans un­past two years. Its criteria fails to

wa.vf=OCUS
til the government comes up with take into account the rate of infla­
these regulations. The new regula­tion," Russo stated. tions might go into cffect im­and veteran benet1ts, and number of The federal government has made mediately or they might be students in college. Financial aid of­tentative aJiocations fer each of delayed." ficers would be able to look at a Notre Dame's university-based 
The Guaranteed Student Loan chart plotting family size and federal aid programs (Supplemental program is the most commonly used income and he able to determine the Educational Opportunity Grant, federaJ aid program at Notre Dame. amount of money a family can spend Work Study, and National Direct Stu­
Of the Sl6 million of federal funds 
on college education. dent Loans). The funds for each utilized by Notre Dame. $13 million "The Simple Needs Test would program have been reduced. 
is used in the GSL program. The not he ahk to he used in every case," "If you add the reductions from nationwide cost of thc program to Ru~so said. ''I'd prefer to use the last year and this year, the total the federal government is S3 billion FAF." 
reduction amounts to about in interest on the subsidized loans. The elimination of a s~o.ooo sc;oo,ooo," Russo said. 
The cost ofthe program is so great income ceiling and the change to a This leaves Russo with less than 
because the government also pays a needs test for every applicant is just 5.2 million to allocate. This is a great"special allowance" which is drivcn one of four Rcagan proposals to cut 
rt:duction from 19H0-81, a peak year 
by the prime interest rate. federal spending on student aid. for funds, when the Financial Aid 
"Use of the GSL program has Reagan also proposes to increase the Office nad S2."i million to work doubled and doubled again in the origination surcharge which would with. past few years," Russo said. "That's earn more interest for the student. The reduction in aid comes at a because of the 1978 Middle Income The GSL program began a "points" time when tuition, room, and board Bill, which removed the incomc system late last summer. 
costs at Notre Dame are expccted to ceiling on the program. It was a Reagan wants to eliminate loans political compromise made by Car-to graduate, law, and professional See LOANS, page 5 


Thursday, April29, 1982-page 2 




ewsBrie/§ 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
An OUtdoor COO}el"behind Senior Bar was broken in­to and a number of beer taps were stolen early yesterday morning, according to Ivianager Tom Brouillard. Nothing else was reported missing. Brouillard said the vandals broke the lock and stole the taps at approximately 2 or 3 a.m. Another cooler was left untouched. The cost ofthe robbery has not been estimated. -The Obseroer 
Notre Dame's Department of Sociology and Anthropol­ogy will become two separate departments, of sociology and of anthropology. A request to separate the disciplines was made by both sociologists and anthropologists before the University's Academic Council April 19 and was approved unanimously. The recommendation had the support ofthe Acting Dean. of the College of Arts and Letters, Robert E. Burns, who said the division is ex­
pected to be accomplished by the opening ofthe 1982-83 academic 
year. Spokesmen for the move said it was a natural evolution within the department and followed a national pattern of distinct depart­ments for the disciplines. For some }~ars, there has been an under­graduate major in anthropology within the existing department, whose records show the first graduate in anthropology in 1970. There are no current plans for advanced study in anthropology. There are seven anthropologists currently on the faculty and 20 sociologists. The chairman for the Department ofAnthropology will be named at a later date. -The Obseroer 
The Campus Ministry office of Notre Dame recently announced the establishment ofa draft counselling service for University students. Although current federal law requires only draft registration, an act of Congress could reactivate military con­scription, in which case there would be no college deferments. Any claim of conscientious objection, under the current law, must be filed within ten days of the induction notice. "The ten days offered are woefully inadequate for the development ofsuch a sensitive and far-reaching decision of the conscience," according to Br. Joe McTaggart, associate director of Campus Ministry. "This is not a position which can be decided overnight. While we draft councel· lors from Campus Ministry and the faculty and staffworking with us do not, as a group, advocate any particular position on the draft, we will offer our service to all Notre Dame students who would wrestle with these sensitive issues. We aren't in this arena to increase the number ofconscientious objectors, but to help those students who approach usto determine their position in light oftheir consciences, as the American bishops have called upon religious educators to do." 
-The Obseroer 
A husband and wife accused of being part ofa ring that smuggled up to 4,000 illegal Mexican aliens to Chicago have been convicted of conspiracy. Nicholas Gudino, 28, and his wife Maria, 27, were convicted Tuesday after a jury trial in U.S. District Court. Sentencing was set for June 17. Evidence in the case was gathered by an undercover agent who went to Tijuana, Mexico, and posed as an illegal alien to learn how the pipeline to Chicago worked. The aliens were brought across the border and moved through the Camp Pendleton, Calif., Marine Base by a Marine and a woman friend, the Chicago Sun-Times said. A third defendant, Mar· tin Cervantes, was acquitted. Two peoplt: who were indicted are fugitives and 10 have pleaded guilty. -AP 
A federal judgein Baltimore has denied a request from a Hare Krishna sect for a temporary ban on enforcement of new regulations aimed at protecting visitors to Baltimore's renovated In­ner Harbor from public nuisances. The sect's attorney, C. Christop­her Brown, contended that a ban against "public assembly" or solicitation around the National Aquarium meant there "can be no free speech activities" in the area, and argued that a provision requir­ing a five-day wait for a permit to engage in "speechmaking" and "marching" amounted to a "five-day moratorium on free speech." 
U.S. District Judge Norman Ramsey said another federal judge al­ready had agreed to expedite trial of a pending Hare Krishna suit seeking to set aside the new park regulations permanently on con­stitutional grounds. -AP 
The DOSe of an empty United Airlines DC-I 0 tipped down 
onto the runway at Newark International Airport yesterday after lan­
ding. Gear malfunctioning occured during routine maintenance, au­
thorities sat id. No one was aboard and there were no injuries when 
the mishap occured about 2: 15 a.m., officials said. "The gear 
retracted as mechanics were checking on the hydraulics and slowly 
the plane went down," said Charles Novak, a spokesman for United 
in Chicago. He said the plane suffered slight damage to the nose. The 
cause of the accident was "under investigation." The landing gear 
raises and lowers a wheel from the nose during takeoff and landing. 
The plane was being readied for an 8 a.m. flight to Chicago, and the 
passengers were put on another plane, Novak said. -AP 
An 18-year-old youth suffered a heart attack and died while playing a video game in a Calumet City, Ill., arcade, but coroner's office officials would not blame stress for the attack. Mark Allen, deputy coronerfor Lake County, Ind., said Peter Bukowski, 18, ofSouth Holland, Mich. died after playing the video game "Berserk" at Friar Tuck's Game Room in Calumet City. He was taken to an Indiana hospital after he was stricken. Allen said the youth apparent­ly had heart problems prior to the April 3 incident and the death could not be blamed on stress brought on by playing the video game. He said Bukowski's death could have been triggered by a task as easy as walking up a flight ofstairs. -AP 
Mostly sunnyand warmer today. High in the upper 60's. Tonight, fair and cooler with a low in the 40's. -AP 

A Study ofAbsurdity 
The arrest of eight Farley women last Friday night at Rocco's called to mind some disturbing questions concerning the priorities and methods of investigation ofthe South Bend Police Department. 
Why, for example, does the police department waste limited manpower by having two undercover officers sneak around a quiet, family restaurant on a Friday eve­ning to look for underage drinkers? If the department is so concerned with this problem (which is a question in 

itself), why aren't the obvious hangouts -Corby's, over four hours being "processed." In police jargon, Bridget's, etc. -targets for the, plainclothesmen in· this means the officers took mug shots and fm· stead? gerprinted the women. But this process took four 
Why is a quiet section dinner among friends dis· hours. Although my experience with the police is turbed -and the evenings of several girls ruined -limited to watching Hill Street Blues, I can only hope simply because the students wanted some beer with that other police departments show a little more ef­
their pizza? I could perhaps use this column to ques­ficiency. tion the rationale behind a law requiring Hoosier beer What may be most disturbing ofall is the attitude of 
drinkers to be 21, but that subject has been explored on these officers toward the group ofstudents. The officers these pages before, and the state representatives in In­observed the group for several minutes like a bunch of dianapolis don't seem too concerned with these argu· "snakes," according to Rocco Ameduri, the owner of 
ments. Rocco's. What is important, however, is the enforcement of They were evidently waiting to make they
sure this law here in Michiana. According to Captain Walter caught all the girls with beer, because they even ar­Benninghoffof the South Bend Police Department, the rested one of the girls who had been drinking water. 
Special Operations Unit has "We saw you take a sip of a vice detail that deals 
beer," they told the villain. specifically with prostitu-Discounting the humilia­tion and liquor violations. tion endured by the eight On any given weekend eve· students, perhaps Friday's ning, the unit employs incident harmed the South 
"enough plainclothesmen to Bend Police Department cover the city." 
most. Assuming this distribu· How can one seriously 
tion of manpower is respect a department that reasonable -an assumption enforces laws in such a man­which may be questioned in ner? 
view of South Bend's This lack of respect might average of 20 murders and just be mutual, however. As 80 rapes a year -why must an officer was leading one of these undercover officers the girls to the squad car, he 
stake out a quiet family res­commented: "This wouldn't taurant like Rocco's? happen if you people would The officers' report of 11 . , 
stay on your campus." Friday night's arrests indi-\Ne re Thanks a lot, ociffer. cates that the officers went to Rocc"o's on an anonymous tip. Whew! Does this mean that Rocco's isn't one of the squad's regular targets? Regardless, this still doe5 not 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the justify their treatment of the Farley "villains." 
views of the author, ana do not necessari~y represent
Perhaps I should describe Friday's incident: two 
the views ofThe Observer or its editorial board. groups from Farley were at Rocco's for section dinners. Several of the students ordered beer with their pizza, and because the restaurant was qlllite busy at the time, were not asked to show identification. At no time did 
Observer notes

--------,
the groups become excessively loud. Minutes later, a man and woman in street clothes ap· 
If you have any pertinent information of relevance proached the tables, flashed their police badges, and to the Notre Dame community that you would like to asked to sec some identification. When eight ofthe girls see printed, The Observer asks that you please give us a could not produce any, they were arrested, frisked, and call at 239·5303. Thank-you.
sent to the police station. 

The Observer is always looking for new~epor­Curiously, five other Notre Dame students who were ters. If you like to write and can devote a few hours
sitting right next to the two tables of Farley girls were not asked to produce any identification at all. I guess the 
each week to reporting, visit our office on anonymous tipster failed to warn the officers about this 
LaFortune's third floor. Talk to one of our new .s group. 
editors. They'll be glad to get you started. The story does not end here. The eight girls spent 
Design Editor..................Deirdre Murphy Design Assistants ......................... Troy Illig Layout Staff.........................joeMusumed Typesetters............................... .Raymond D. Copy Editors .......................joeMucumed Tim Neeiy Features Layout... ................. PaulMcGinn Sports Copy Editor............Dave Dziedzic Typist........ ........joe McCarthy SMC Day Editor ............... .julia Trimarchi Ad Design ................................ .jobn & Muff Photographer........ ......Cheryl Ertelt Guest Appcarances .................... Ted Ozark paper rabbit the resting shade ofMoose Control  
The Observer (USPS 59B 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer 1s published by rhe students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col· lege Subscnphons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer. P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All rBproductlon nghts are reserved Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556  


Attend 
SEA SEMESTER 
and receive a full semester credit at Notre Dame 
University. 
One-semester program in oceanography and maritime affairs. Attend class for six weeks in 1~oods Hole and then join the R/V WESTWARD, a 125' schooner for a six­week research cruise to the North Atlantic, Caribbean, Gulf of Mexico or Sargasso Sea. Semesters start every two months year-round. For information contact: 
SEA EDUCATION ASSOCIATION Box 6a ·Woods Hole MA 02543 (617) 540-3954 



The Observer Thursday, April 29, 1982 -page 3 

Pope postpones return to Poland indefinitely 
VATICAN CITY (AP) -Pope "objective reasons" for Warsaw to John Paulll's plans to visit Poland in want to see the rrip postponed. "Not August have been postponed in-everything is easy for the govern­definitdy, th{ee years after his ment," he said. return home fanned nationalist and The 61-year-old pope as repeated­religious fervor, Poland's Roman ly called on Warsaw to rescind Catholic primate said yesterday. martial law, release political 
"I believe the pope's trip must be prisoners and restore rights gained postponed for a little while," Arch-by Solidarity, the first independent bishop Jozef Glemp said in an un-labor union in the Soviet bloc. usual session with reporters in St. Vatican sources had said earlier Peter's Square. Despite Glemp's the pope might cancel the trip since cautious remarks, Polish sources at he feared giving any impresion he the Vatican said the primate clearly accepts military rule. meant the visit was off. In Warsaw, a Polish government 
Just a few weeks before the Dec. official said authorities had no objec­13 martial law crackdown on tions to a papal visit, but he refused Poland's church-backed Solidarity to elaborate or be quoted by name. labor movement, John Paul had ac-John Paul's trip was planned for cepted an invitation from the Com-the 600th anniversary cdebration of munist government and Polish the Aug. 26 arrival of Our Lady of bishops to make the trip. Czestochowa, Poland's ms sacred 
Asked if the pope would visit and patriotic symbol. The "Black Poland next year, Glemp replied, Madonna," as it is popularly known, "No, unless the situation (in Poland) wa.~ brought to the Jasna Gora calms down." mona.~tery in the southern Polish WSND radio bas begun its semi-annual Summer­
The archbishop arrived in Rome city of Czestochowa from the Uk­fund, a campaign to raise money for broadcasting on Monday to coordinate church raine. durinK the summer, and during all breaks. Here a disc 
strategy under military rule in Poland, where more than 90 percent of the nation's 36 million people are devout Catholics. 
Glemp would not say whether it 

Pope names Andre ''blessed'' 

Saint Mary's holds 11Fireside Chats" today 
By ANNE MIKOS of LeMans, Holy Cross, McCandless, News Stuff and Regina Halls. There wih be three or four alumnae present at each 
Finding summer jobs and learning meeting. how to join one of Saint Mary's 60 Wilson said the ·discussions are alumnae clubs are among the topics designed as an outreach from the of discussion at "Fireside Chats" members ofthe board to the Student with students and members of the Alumnae Committee and any in­Alumnae Association Board of terested students. Directors tonight in some Saint Services provided by the Alumnae Mary's dorms. Association, such as providing 
The Fireside Chats are an event of housing for students who are travel­this spring's semi-annual meeting of ing to interviews, will also be dis­the board, according to Alumnae cussed. Director Leslie Wilson. This is the first year the discussions have been planned and, if successful, the Chats 
Be on the 

will become an annual event, said Wilson. The Fireside Chats are scheduled 
Snite museum of Art 
for 9:30p.m. tonight in the lounges 
Student Gallery Committee 
Be one of the powers that bel
... Tenure 
Applications and Information available 
continuedfrom page I 
atthe museum, 10-4pm Tuesday through 
academic freedom and not for job security." "I am in favor of tenure," said 
Friday. ca11239-5466 

O'Meara, who feels tenure en­courages faculty to speak out freely without worry of repression. 
"Tenure," he said, "is here to stay." Although there are imperfec­tions, O'Meara said, "Faculty mem­bers at least have assurances until age 65." O'Meara noted that in most other professions, termination can occur at any age. 
"Almost invariably in the past, this thing (retirement) has been handled amicably," he said. 

...._PRAYER 
Do you want to pray? Have to pray? Have to keep trying? Are you searching for a life with prayer at the center? The deep stillness within from which all else flows? Your search may be leading you to become a Benedictine at Saint Louis 
t Priory. Come and see. For information write: 
I Fr. Ralph Wright, OSB 
Room4 

~~&£~11 Saint Louis Priory
\~ ~ ~ ~ ~v soo so. Mason Road\Ia •••~ St. Louis, Missouri 63141 
Dame," according to Fr. Leonard Banas, Brother Andre died Jan. 6, 1937, at the age of91. 
An uneducated orphan, Brother 
·Andre spent much of his life in Canada. Invoking the help of St. Joseph, husband ofMary, he gained a reputation among the poor, the sick, and the maimed as a source of in­spiration. He was about 30 years old when extraordinary cures occurred, and he soon became known as the "Miracle Man of Montreal." 
Three brothers and two priests from the Indiana province will at­tend the beatification in Rome, according to Banas, and a group of 20 will go lO Montreal on the weekend ofJune 19 for a celebration in Olympic Stadium. 
A committee is studying the pos­sibility of a celebration here in the fall. 
.dorn Alfred Bessette, Brother Andre was the eighth child in a fami­ly of 12. Born August 9, 1845, at St. Gregoire, a village 30 miles sout­
heast of Montreal, he emigrated to 
New England to work in textile mills 
before returning to Canada in 1867. 
In his later life, Brother Andre ob­tained permission to build a wooden chapel on Mount Royal. Aided by laymen, he replaced the chapel with a stone crypt in 191 7. Contruction ofthe great basilica, started in 1924, was completedd in 1967. 
Brother Andre was declared "venerable" by Pope Paul VI onJune 

12, 1978. 
Brother Andre 

Corby-s Solutes Juniors 
SOPER SPECIAL 
16oz OWMILWAUKEE .95 MARGARITAS $1.00 
3-10 Fri/Sat 


Godfather's Pizza. 
ROSELAND 277-5880 DELIVERING to NOTRE DA~IE and SAINT MARY'S 
u;-.J,.,. tl>•· 1-.\I'UF\\ /)/-"/./\ FU:: 
Medium -pepperoni -sausage 
Orcombo · 
Fr.• Cok•zl u~l w;m.d.Pizza 2 U•ra w/Larg• Pizza 
Driver hrs fresh pizza for sale on truck. 
HOURS: ffion-Thurs and Sunda 
spm -JO:lOPm 
Fri. and Sat. SPm -12:30~m 

wa.~ the pope who decided to cancel 
the trip. But he implied that the War­
saw government may have 
pressured him to discourage the pope from coming for fear offanning anti-state feeling. The archbishop said ther~ are 
Brother Andre, a member of the Congregation of Holy Cross, will be declared "blessed" by Pope John Paul II on May 23, 19H.2. 
A man "who has a warm place in the heart ~>f many here at Notre 


-""'-=--------~---~-­
The Observer 

-------------~------------------------------------------------.----.--.. 
Thursday, April29, 1982-page 4 


Reagan meets O'Neill over budget disputes 

WASHINGTON (AP)-President 
Reagan met with House Speaker 
Tttomas P. O'Neill Jr. and other con­
gressional leaders for "make or 
break" budget negotiations yester­day, but officials on both sides said they saw scant hope for salvaging a grand budget compromise. 
Reagan, arriving at an ornate room off the Senate floor for the session, said he was "always ready" to com­promise on his budget. 
O'Neill quipped, "We're in Ronald Reagan's stockade:·· 
Reagan, O'Neill, Senate 
Republican Leader Howard ll. 
Baker, Jr. and others met after more 
than a month of private talks among 
White House aides and memb:"-.,r 
Congress yielded ds~agreement on 
the key issues of tax increase~ and 
cuts in Social Security an(l the presi­
dent'~ defense budgeL 

v -----­
Over U.S. protest 

UN adopts resolution for Palestinian statehood 
UNITED NATIONS (AP)-Over bitter American protest, the General Assembly yesterday adopted a resolution for Palestinian statehood that condemned the United States' support for Israel, including a series of U.S. vetoes in the Security Coun­cil. 
The resolution, sponsored by 26 Third World and communist countries, was approved by a vote of 86-20 with 36 abstentions. 
It climaxed an emergency special session on "the question of Palestine" that the 157-nation as­sembly began April 20 at the request 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary'sTheatre presents: 
The Card Index 
byTadeusz Rozewicz 
Directed byguest artist KAZIMIERZ BRAUN Aprii23,24.29,30,May1 at 8 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium (on Saint Marys campus) Limited Seating Call 284-4176 for information 
of .32 member nations of the non­aligned movement. 
The tally was almost identical to the 86-21 vote, with 34 abstentions, by which the assembly adopted a similar but stronger resolution last Feb. 5 at a special session on the 
situation  in  Israeli-occupied  Arab  
territories.  
The  new  resolution  urges  the  

Security Council to endorse the Palestinian statehood plan devised by the U.N. Palestinian Rights Com­mittee in 1976 but killed by U.S. veto in the Security Council. That plan would have Israel transfer the oc-cupied West Bank and Gaza Strip find ''a just, comprehensive and las­through the United Nations to the ting solution" to the conflict. Palestine Liberation Organization to Ambassador William C. ~herman, form the territory of a Palestinian a U.S. deputy chief delegate, called state. the resolution "an ill-inspired, of­


The resolution also calls on U.N. fensive document that will reinforce Secretary-General Javier Perez de an attitude of cynicism toward the Cuellar to make contact with the General Assembly and thus toward parties in the Arab-Israeli dispute, the United Nations itself among including the PLO, in an effort to people ofgood will." 
Also invited were Sen. Paul Laxalt, 
R-Nev., a close friend of the presi­
dent; Reps. Jim Wright, D-Texas and 
Richard Bolling, D-Mo.; White 
House Chief of StaffJames A. Baker 
Ill and Edwin Meese III, White 
House counselor. 

Laxalt, Bolling and James Baker 
were involved in the secret negotia­
tions. 

The private talks were aimed at 
producing agreement on a plan to 
reduce Reagan's own unpopular 
budget and bring the federal deficit 
below $100 billion next year. With­
out action by Congre~s. of11cials say 
the deficit will ht-S 1 H2 billion in 
191:-13 and S2~~ billion in 19B"i 
As the negoti:.llon~ progressed, 
ottkiab abandoned hopt"s of agrct"· 
mg on a specific, detailed com· 
promise. and turned their eftorts to 
producing a bmeprint with targets 
lor tax increases and ~penuin~ cut~ 
That effort faltered on disagree· 
ments over taxes and Social 
Security. 

From the beginning, White House 
negotiators have het"n receptive to 
more than :SJ 00 billion in higher 
taxes over three years, but have 
demanded that the I 0 percent per­
sonal income ta" cut !>Cht"duled for jul~· 1983 be declared oft' limits. 
House Democrats have said a change in the tax cut is an essential element of any compromise. Only if Reagan would agree woukl they dis­cuss cuts in Social Security, they said. 
Despite opposition 

Governtnentauctions coal rights 
CHEYENNE, Wyo. (AP) -Bid­ders offered almost S55 million yes­terday to lease 21,000 acres of federal land in the largest coal auc­tion in U.S. history. 
The leases on the sage-dotted plains and rangeland have been chal­lenged in a lawsuit by three environ­mental groups in Washington, D.C. 
Interior Secretary James Watt has estimated the new leases would nearly double current coal produc­tion at the Powder River Basin of northern Wyoming and southeast Montana by 1990. 
The auction of mining rights to 
I. 5 billion tons of coal netted the government nearly S55 million, plus a share of the value of any coal prouuced. 
They claim the sale would have 
"potentially devastating" effects on 
people and wildlife. The Northern 
Cheyenne Indian Tribe also unsuc­
cessfully tried to block the sale last 
week. 
The previous record for a coal lease, set in the Powder River country in 197I just before a I 0­year federal leasing moratorium, in­volved about 500 million tons of coal, according to the federal Bureao of Land Management, which conducted both sales. 
In yesterday's sale, only two ofthe 13 tracts attracted more than one bidder. There were no bids on two tracts 'in Montana. 
"I think generally we're pleased," said Wyoming BLM Director Max Lieurance. "We always like to have a little more competition, but we received at least the minimum hid on each parcel." 

Lieurance and Sandra Blackstone, BLM deputy director for energy and mineral resources, blamed the lack ofcompetition on an uncertain coal market. 
The competition came over the Keeline tract in Wyoming's Campbell County -where a group of Gillette-area ranchers outbid a subsidiary of Peter Kiewit Sons Inc. of Omaha -and Montana's Coal Creek tract, specifically set aside for bids by small businesses. 
Auction-style bidding over those tracts escalated prices from S25 per acre to as high as S"iOO per acre. 
Movin'out? 
RENT A 





RYDER TRUCK 
If you're 18 or over you can rent a Ryder truck to use locally or on a one-way (rent-It-here. leave-It-there) tnp to another c1ty 
Compare costs before you make plans for mov1ng at the end of the semester With a truck you can take along your stereo. 10-speed. clothes. all your stuff. and still have plenty of room for one or two other people and the1r th1ngs. so you can share the costs. Compare that to a plane ticket Or even a bus. 
Rent from the best-ma1nta1ned. most dependable fleet 1n ~~ 
the world Ryder. The best truck money can rent ' ...,a... 
~~-----~~~------------­
11 QO! OFF anyoneway
I /0 rental card rateIwith this COUPON andyour Student I L"'L I through June 30, 1982 ::=L Offer Good at 2715 N. Bendix Dr. ,S.B. 
/iiiiioii;~l\?rr,~ ~,fRYiiER-iRUCKRiNTAi­
aul =--\ 2715N. BENDIXDR South Bend 

The Observer Thursday, April29, 1982-page 5 

Israeli dedicates West Bank tow-n 

A helmeted Israeli soldier with his assault rifle ready faces crowds across a barbed wire borderfence in the city ofRajah, Israel, Sunday. The face-off came 
NAIIAL THEM, Occupied West Banh. (AI') Israeli peace dt·mon~lralor~ scuttled with jewish ~eltlcrs yestaday while Defen~e .\1inistt·r Arid '>haron dedicated a 
new  ~ettlcrnt·m  in  the  occupil'd  
West Bank.  
Nine  Arab~  wt:rc  shot  and  

wounded in da~ht·~ earlier in the day with Israeli troops in the West Bank and the c;aza Strip. The military command _,aid tive Israeli soldiers wt•rt.· hurt in the dashes with Pales­
tinian dt·monstrators. 
lsrad's :Hth lmkpendem:e Day hrou~ht anti-brad demonstrations by Palestinian~ in tht.· occupied ter­ritories and the braelis themselves used the occasion l(>r nationalist outpourings. 
This year marked the centennial of Jewish settlement in the Holy !.and, and the dedication of new settlements set the theme. 
Sharon came to Nahal Telem, a six-mon~h-old duster of concrete prefabricated buildings on a rocky hillside overloooking the coastal plain seven milt's west of Hebron. Hut his speech was disrupted hy shouts and chants from about 50 Peace Now movement activists who had slipped into the crowd of 1,000 despite police harricades set up to keep them away. 
Sharon had harely started to enumerate tht· settlements hcing dedicated -ei~ht in the Wt.·st Bank, 
contimwtlfro111 f!age I 
increase by I 0-1·1 percent (approximaldy S I 000 p~·r student). lhts~o is hoping to overcome the l(:dcral clllhach by incrc.tsing the endowment fund. 
"\\ h~·n you lo~t· the kind of money we art· I .liking about. it is not 
n mlilllll!tlfro111 {ICII,I! I 
London said. "The govc.:rnment is now turning the thumhst rc.:w and applying psychological and political prcsMtrt· on Buc.:nos Aires," a rdc:rcncc to the total war zone that makes any unauthorized ship or plane in the zont· suhjn:t to attack. 
Tht· sourct.·, who askt·d not to be 
ickntilkd, said th;ll a ~quad ron ofhe­
tween six and nine lon~·rangc \'ul­
cm bomht·r~ has been positioned on 
Asn·nsion Island, .~,'iOO miles north 
of tht: Falklands. 
British dcfen~t· ol!icials said last 
week that some of th~· Vulcans have 
bct·n adapted to carry 21 conven­
tional I,000-pound homhs. 
British press reports speculatec that the Vulcans will he used to homh mainland Argl'ntine air ba.~es before any assault on the Falklands, to reduce Argentina's 12-1 air super­iority over the British armada. 
"The Vulcans have hecn undergo­ing intense training in using conventional homh loads and mid­air refueling," the source said. The homhers would nt'l·d to refuel in tli).!ht on any missio·ts from Ascen­sion. 
The Argentines ha t• an •·stimated I0,000 troops on th< Falklands. The British task li1rce carr•t·s some I, 500 marine commandos, but the requisi­tioned liner Canht·rra, carrying an­<Hhcr 2,000 111arines and paratroopt:rs, b t·xpc ctcd to rendez­vous with the arm tda bci(Jrc the WtTkcnd. 
British ddcn~t· ;lltaly~t~ fon:ca~t the t;tsk foru: may launch two or three t'oort.linatnl attack~. inc.:luding jet attat.·k~ on tht· airstrip at Stanley. tht· Falklands' capital. 
one in Gaza, one in the recently an­
nexed Ciolan llei~hts and one in the 
Negev desert -when the shouts 
cruptnl. 
The dcmon~trators yelled: 
"Annt·xation no. Peace ycs!" Scuffles 
broke out as people in the crowd 
tried to push the protesters away or 
wrest flags from them. 
There were no injuries, and Sharon did not skip a beat in his speech. But Israel radio reported that some of the Peace Now people were tear-gassed when they tried to walk around harricades on the high­ways. 
The defense minister said there was no connection hctween the new settlements and Israel's withdrawal from Sinai 


Gunmen hijack plane, take 35 hostages 
TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras ( AP) -Gunmen hijacked a Honduran air­liner on a domestic flight yesterday, released 14 people after landing here but kept 35 on hoard, police said. The hijackers' demands were not known. 
Police and army officials hegan negotiating by radio with the hijack­ers after they complied with a re­
. . . Loans 
reasonable to assume we can pick it up right away," Russo said. "Endowments take: time to build, but in the long run. in about five or I0 )Tars, wt· will he ablt: to overcome thb d1alknge. We han· a 
bt.·ttt·r chance at mn·tin).! this chal­lenge than do many other univer­sities." 

quest by officials to free all women, children and elderly passengers from the Honduran Air Service air­liner. 
Thirteen women and a child left the four-engine plane at noon -2 
p.m. EDT, HO minutes after it landed on the main runway ofToncontin In­ternational Airport. They were hused to an air force installation at the airport for questioning by au­thorities. 
The four engines of the Canadian­huilt Dash 7 aircraft kept running while more than I00 policemen and army troops stood at distance. A crew offour was ahoard. 
Police said the hijackers hoarded the plane at La Cciba, I 15 miles north of Teguci~alpa. While the plane was en route to nearby San Pedro Sula, they turned guns on lhc pilot and f(m:ed him to tly directly to Tegucigalpa, the plane's eventual destination, officers said. 

' ' .Britain 
WILL YOU BE THE NEXT ffiOLINELLI? 

is looking for new cartoon strips ( 4-panel, 1-panel, etc.) Submit idea and sample of work by Friday, April 30. 
(Afterall, anything is better than smerd!) 

._........COMMUNITY.____. 
And then there's community. Living together with a family of brothers in lifelong commitment to the Lord. A lot of mutual support. Plenty of pain and self­
sacrifice, too. And deepest in it all, joy. 
Prayer. Work. Community. With the Lord. Is your 
search leading you to become d Benedictine at Saint 
Louis Priory? It was the Lord who said to those who 
first sought Him, "Come and see." 

For information write: Fr. Ralph Wright, OSB Room 4 Saint louis Priory 500 So. Mason Road St. louis, Missouri 63141 
1621 South Bend Ave. 233-4603 
British forces recaptured South Georgia, HOO miles cast of the Falklands, on Sunday and Monday. The British lkknse Ministry said an Argcntint: prisoner on South Geor­gia died Monday in a '"serious inci­dent." 
It gave no other details. The British took 156 Argentine military personnel and .'>H civilians prisoner in th<.: attack. including th<.: Ar­gentine submarine Sante Fe crippled in the attack. 

The Ministry said Monday the on­ly casualty was one of the sub's crewmen who later had a leg am­putated. It was not disclosed whether he was the prisoner who died. 

WE WILL BEAT ANY ADVERTISED PRiCE 
(YOU MUST BRING IN THEIR AD)
This Week BeerSpecials Budweiser 24cans 6.99 MillerLite 24cans 7.29 Old Milwaukee 24cans 5.49 Pabst 12pks 3.59 
Coors Light 12 pks 5.99 
..---KegSpecial-------, Generic 25.49 Generic Light 25.49 
(Pkgincludes ice, 50 cups Deposit required)_____.. 


Business & Techno1Qgy_r_hurs_day_,Ap_rn2_9,_198_2_pag_e6 
Economic Update 

Bowing to competition from Individual Retire­ment Accounts at private financial institutions, the Treasury Depart­ment will soon stop offering its own individual retirement bonds, officials said yesterday. "Sales ofthese bonds in recent months have been negligible because ofthe availability ofa wide range ofprivate Keogh and l.RA. investments at higher rates," the department said in a statement. Tax law changes approved by Congress last year made many more Americans eligible to invest in I.RA.'s at banks, savings and loans and other financial institutions. Anyone eligible for a private I.RA. also was eligible for United States Retirement Plan bonds and United States Individual Retirement bonds, but few bought them because the rates were usually lower. -AP 
Japanese auto makers enjoy a significant labor cost advantage over their rivals in the United States, .and Douglas A. Fraser, president ofthe United Automobile Workers union, is trying to close the gap. Mr. Fraser is inJapan, urgingJapanese auto workers to demand higher wages. "Industrial competition should not be based on who can pay the lowest wages," Mr. Fraser said yesterday. "We should strive to eliminate all competition based on the lowest common demominator for the worker.'' -AP 
ThepresidentofFord Motor Company, Donald E. Peter­
sen, said that he expected a gradual recovery in auto sales during the 
second half of 1982. Speaking Monday, he said there was a pent-up 
demand for autos in the United States and he predicted that more 
consumers would come back into the market after the mid-year 
Federal tax cut. He predicted annual car sales could reach 9.5 mil­
lion this year, but he said that much of the industry improvement 
that he expected hinged on resolving the budget dispute between 
President Reagan and Congress. Ford's second-quarter output 
figures were up "considerably" from the first quarter, he said. -AP 

Wall StreetUpdate 

Stock prices fell Wednesday, extending Tuesday's retreat, amid concern over budget talks in Washington and a military buildup in the South Atlantic. The Dow Jones average of 30 in­dustrials, which fell8.08 points Tuesday, shed another 4.86 to close at 852.64. Prior to Tuesday's slide, the blue-chip average had climbed 70.11 points from its two-year low of 795.47 on March 8. About four stocks fell in price for every three that rose on the New York Stock Exchange. Big Board volume was 50.53 million shares, down from 56.48 million Tuesday and 60.50 million Monday. 

Monopole: Annual IncomeQ 

"find of the $25POO . century?" 
By ROBERT LOCKE 

AP Science Writer 
A Stanford scientist says he may have ended a long, frustrating search by spotting a curious particle called a monopole-the basic unit ofmag­netism and a key to theories that would draw together the forces in the universe. 

If the apparent discovery by physicist Blas Cabrera is confirmed,TAX BILL $7,000 it would "rank as one of the finds of the century .. . and that's a lower
*Up 75t lnthe JiXJSI five years. limit of how important it might be," 
W. Peter Trower of the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State Uni­

A family offour wtth an income of 125,000 faces a federal tax 
versity said Wednesday. 

btl/ ofalmost 17,000for the current fiscal year, which is a rise of75 
The existence of monopoles ­

percent in thepastfive years, a new study shows. ( AP Laserphoto) 
subatomic particles with only a single magnetic pole rather than the north and south poles of all other known magnets -would rever­


Scientists study body's 
berate through many areas of theoretic physics, the field that tries to explain the essence ofexistence.

resistanc{~ todisease 
The apparent discoverywas based on a single event, and Cabrera was By ROGER WILKE munologically competent. The 
cautious in his description of it. He thymus is known to release peptides
News Staff said what seems to have been a known as thymic hormones. 
monopole passed through an ex­Dr. Ruth Neta, of the Department It seems that some individuals perimental detector on Feb. 14. lack immunity because of a dif­
of Microbiology, is currently Cabrera could not be reached for conducting research in an elfort to ference in their thymic hormones. comment Wednesday, but Stanford understand variations in the im­"Many clinicians will treat patients 
outlined his research and Trower, munity systems of individuals. for without knowing for certain if the 
who is familiar with it, d~scribed the the past four years, she has engaged medicine will work," says Neta. "We 
work in a telephone interview. 

in experimentation with animals to want to pick out which patients will "We've seen only one event ih determine why some individuals are respond to treatment and tell why." 
185 days running time. That makes it more resistant to disease than Another substance which works 
extremely difficult to do the kind of 

others. According to Neta,"We do on some individuals is interferon. In­checks that one can do in a typical 
not understand what causes the dif­terferon is a protein which seems to 
low-temperature experiment," the ferences in resistance of indivftduals, combat certain types of infections 
university quoted Cabreraas saying. 

but by experimenting with inbred and cancers. According to Neta, the 
Trower said Cabrera "has gone to strains ofmice we can study the rela­amount ofinterferon a strain ofmice 
every possible length ... to discredit tion between their genetic makeup may produce correlates with their 
that event, to find some other ex­and their immunity system." resistance to infection. Ifa strain can 
planation for it. He has failed to do Neta uses strains ofmice in her ex­produce large quantities of inter­so." periments because "It would be im­feron, it is fairly resistant to infection 
With no other likely explanation possible to study single individuals compared to one which does not. for the event, which changed the Neta also notes that susceptible
and get accurate, meaningful detector's current in exactly the results." Using large numb(~rs of strains tend to produce an inhibitor way a monopole should, the most identical mice, she is able to detect to interferon; that is, they produce a logical interpretation is that a the abnormalities in their immunity substance which neutralizes the ef­monopole was spotted. systems and get accurate data fect ofinterferon. She says that injec­Every magnetic particle known 
related to these abnormalities. Neta tion of thymic hormones into mice has both a north and south pole and notices that "some strains olf mice have different effects depending on the magnetism is a result of electri­will accept a type of treatmem for a the strain. Some strains become cally charged particles moving
I 
I 
I 
I 
/
~ 
I ' 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 


6P 6P 6P 
ailJ'r Nil Alumni Ass.oriatiDn Prr.s .. nts 
The Senior Alumni Picnic 
&aturbay-, .tlayl • 11l:30-12:3U, nt &ttpan Clttnttr Hot Dogs Beer Snacks lflttt 1\lumni Qllub. 
iRepresrntatiut>s wq.o urill qaur infDrmatiDn an rluhs anb ritits f .or 
•
stntDrs 
J\11 &eniDrs inuitrb N a u.bmissi.an rl)argt


6P 6P 6P 

I disease such as cancer or infection, resistant to infection, while some do through them. The monopole, 
I 
and be affected by it, while others not. 
however, would have only a single are not helped by the same treat­Neta collaborates with Dr. B. L. 
pole, either north or south. Current 

ment. This is also the case for Horecker,a biochemist from Roche 
theories suspect all the monopolesI humans.'' Institute of Molecular Biology in 
in the universe were created in theI The intent of Neta's studic::s is to New Jersey, and Dr. Don Shreffier,a 
first instant of the Big Bang that isI find a way to correct the immunity geneticist from Washington Univer­
believed to have created the uni­I system of an individual susCieptible sity in St. I.ouis. She hopes the work 
verse in a cataclysm ofUnimaginableI to infection or cancer. He•· basic they are doing will provide heat. I work centers around the thymus clinicians with a better understand­"This is a beautiful, elegant ex­I gland, situated in the thorax. Ing ofimmunity systems so they can periment ... that indicates there is t Biologists are certain that in some make _better decisions in the treat­one of these kinds of creatures way, lymphocytes are processed ment of individuals with infections around," Trower said. "If the find is
I 
through the thymus to become im-or other diseases. 
what it appears to be," he said, "then

I 
I 
rmmouonao..muommm"""""'"'""'"'"""''"im..immmmmuomouuumo•umuoounmuol 
it's something enormously heavy; 
it's a whole new kind ofmatter.'' 

I I Looking for a 
Gasoline

I Good Summer? •


prt-cesseen 

Make $3148 This Summer 

rt-st-ng 

lnt~rvie'"rs Today, April28 Several major oil companies 
posted increases this week in the price they charge wholesale dis­

1pm or4pm -Rm. 421 AdBldg. 
tributors, and analysts say the added cost will show up at the retail pump

or at 7pm -1160 'shag 
before the start of the summer driving season. 
Although demand for gasoline remains generally weak, the oil com­panies are raising prices to dis­tributors in reaction to a recent 

Please he prompt firming of crude oil prices. That turnaround for crude oil is linked mainly to the success of the Or­ganization of Petroleum Exporting



IIII 

We need a few hard workers Countries in limiting its production 
SOUTHWESTER'N 
and thereby eating away at the over­supply on world markets.

L......................................................................HIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~·················IIIIIII 
----------------------------------~----------------------~-----~­
----, 


Editorials 
Thursday, April29, 1982-page 7 
Thoughts about the draft, 60's, 70's, and 80's 
Why is there such a replusion minated like rats before they con­changed from U.S. as the benevolent from serving the country to how the Now the importance of American 
toward the draft, to serving our quered America. protector to the world's weak to that country could serve us. involvement in other countries has 
country in its time of need? All this But with Korea and Vietnam, the of expensive toy of politicians to be What could the military do for us? become paramount in any foriegn af­
week, The Obsen•er has run mood changed. Suddenly we were used at will. There were no commies invading fairs discussion. 
editorials on this topic, with several not so sure who we were protecting, Peace was the goal of America, our hometowns, so why should we No longer do we take for granted 
students giving their viewpoints. and who we were flushing out like and youth could not see how the enlist? that "America knows best." Should 
rats. military could achieve it. The military is now advertising for America supply arms to El Salvador? We were fighting in a distant land The military became a restriction recruits using a new approach. The Is it worth sending American men 
for questionable interests, for to life, rather than a protector of it. Marines have kept the traditional, to set up a government?
Edward Konrady 
reasons that appeared hazy at best. This feeling led into the seventies, "We need a few good men," while What about Afghanistan, Poland, With the sixties came the accurately known as the "Me" the Army, Navy and Air Force are the rest of the world?
and Randy Fahs 
questioning of the government. decade. The seventies youth began a emphasizing what they can do for In the eighties, people are drifting Youth lost their trust of the govern­swing away from altruism and you. Our previously vital interests back toward a more world-oriented 
In this week's column, we would ment and the government's com­toward self-fulfillment. have become more skeptically outlook. No longer is the United like to examine the background of petantcy to choose when to fight They became apathetic toward viewed. In earlier wars, (World States the only important country on what has formed our generation's and when not to. world events, caring only about Wars I and II, for example) people the globe. 
outlook on the draft and war. Youth wanted reasons why they events that directly affected the would enlist before their draft The presence ofnuclear arms, and The last conflicts involving large should fight, what wo t uld be gained American public, the economy and notices would reach them, because their possible proliferation of the 
numbers of drafted Americans were 
located in Korea and Vietnam. 
Before this, the American public considered our efforts to be those of a great protector, helping the under­dog who was being ravaged by the communists, shifty-eyed pinkos who had to be flushed out and exter­by the fighting, and the right to choose not to fight if they felt the war was unjust. 
The sixties' youth gained an un­derstanding of war's devestation that may not have been ever fully realized before. 
Their view of the military 

Dear Editor: 
I feel compelled to correct some misinformation which appeared in yesterday's front page story on WSND's Summerfund written by one ofyour staff reporters. 
The Summerfund drive does not finance repair and maintenance of equipment, nor capital Improve­ments, nor executive salaries, nor taped shows, nor live hook ups. 
All ofthese items are covered in 
the University budget. 
Summerfund finances only the hourly minimum wage payments to broacasters during the summer, Christmas, Fall and Spring Breaks, Thanlcsglvlng and Easter. 
I should add another couple hundred dollars for printing and mailing costs. 

I hope your article has not damaged WSND-FM's Summer­fund drive. They truthfully tell their listners where the money goes. 
After reading your second paragraph, listeners may wonder. 
For WSND-FM listeners let me assure you of the accuracy of the information in this letter. 
I respect Professor Danahy's views on the University's respon­sibility for financing the station throughout the year. 
He ha.~ donated countless hours 
to WSND-FM. In fact, he was very 
prominent in bringing about some 
ofthe improvements at WSND. 
This past year, we had WSND 
evaluated by a team of engineers 
and experts in the broadcast in· 
dustry. 

Many of their written recom­mendations are presently being implemented, most notably a hefty budget increase for capital im­provements, and repair and main­tenance ofequipment. 
Pending budgetary approval, the University will fund over SIO,OOO to WSND-AM and over S28,000 to WSND-FM during the 82-83 school year. 
I should add that the Summer­
fund drive was initiated before I 
carne to Notre Dame in 1979. Ifthe 
drive ever failed, I would urge ad­
ditional University funding to sup­
port the station. 
At present, however, the drive 
seems to setve as a guage of com­
munity interest and support 
during times when our students 
are on vacation. 
Sincerly, james M. McDonnell Dir. ofStudent Activities 
personal success in particular. the legitimacy of the wars wa.~ evi­U.S., the U.S.S.R., and other The theme ofthe seventies swung dent. 
countries, has shown us that an isolationist position toward world affairs is foolish, If not impossible. 
Perhaps we have realized that skirmishes in Afghanistan, El Sal­
Editor'sNote 
vador, and even the Falkland Islands, 
Today continues the week-long series ofeditorials devoted to tbe 
affect us greatly. 
historical, personal, and community approaches to service. 

Today's youth will fight when it
Whether in the military, U.S. government, religious, orprivate sec­

becomes evident that world peace,
tor, volunteer and mandatory service becomes a prominent con­

if not our survival, Is threatened.
cern ofstudents entering tbe outside world. Today and tomorrow, 
students andfaculty members exami1UI various service-related op­

However, this fact will have to be: 
tions and discern a meaningful outlook of tbe world ofbe/ping 

proved to us; no longer can the 
others. 

government expect blind follow­ship. 
Rights , duties , and obligations 
There ha.-; been a great deal ofdis­The Soviets posess over 160 divi­weaponry to stabilize the numerical cussion lately in the Obsen•er and in sions, a two-ocean navy, and disadvantage on the battlefield. public about rights. thousands offirst-line aircraft. 
This would reduce the necessity These arguements usually center Communists believe the social for nuclear weapons, both bat­around the proposition that each system we live in is corrupt and 
tlefield and strategic. The increased and every moral decision is the in­must be destroyed. Any and all 
numbers of U.S. troops would dividual's alone to make. means to this end are moral. 
decrease the Soviet incentive to Lastly, the size and doctrine ofthe 
strike, and increased stability would 
U.S. armed forces. The U.S. Army 
hopefully permit negotiations to
Rick Lechowich 
consists of 16 divisions (not all at full 

reduce force levels of nuclear strength), which are heavily depen­
weapons.Voice from within dant upon hideously expensive People are born free, but they do technology to make up for its lack of not remain so. Freedom is a gift,This is more pronounced in the numbers. 
which must be constantly earned. area of military service. The U.S. Navy and Air Force rely Violence is wrong; however, one "No one has the right to make me upon the same technology. Also, the has a right to defend oneself. kill, to take away 'God's most pre­Secretary of State recently con­
No one posesses rights in a cious gift," and so on. firmed the U.S. doctrine of first use vacuum, and these rights are Besides containing large errors, of nuclear weapons in the event ofa 
protected by the state. Citizens of a (God's most precious gift to you is battlefield attack upon U.S. forces. state excercise their rights under its your soul, not your body; and our All these facts come together in an 
protection. Citizens of a state, leaders' first desire is assumed to be unpleasant pattern. The Soviets and 
therefore, have the duty to protectintentional violence) several areas their allies are committed to 
the state in the event it has been at­
of morality and reason are ignored. destroying the capit.Uist system of 

tacked. Among these are obligations and which the U.S. is the leader. 
No one can claim rights which he 
duties. They posess armed forces which is not prepared to defend. 
Before I go on, several unpleasant are three to four times larger than Today, freedom in the: U.S. stands 

realities must be dealt with. ours to accomplish this. 

at a crossroads. The general trend First, we live in a modern nation­The Soviet view of wa.r is a super that there is "nothing worth fighting
state, based on the philosophy of blitzkrieg which will swamp NATO for" Is wrong.
John Locke, Hobbes, and others. Un­beneath waves of tanks, aircraft, ar­freedom is worth fighting for. 

der this theory, nations are tillery. 

There are many things worse than a 
composed of individuals who come To prevent this, the U.S. relies painful death: torture, Injustice, and 

together out of need for mutual upon expensive technology and concentration camps, to name a few. 

protection. the possibility of first use of In the face ofconstant challenges

The main purposes of such a nuclear weapons. 

and threats, it takes courage: to resist. 
society are self-enrichment and Obviously, this trend is dangerous 

It is much easier to roU over and protection from others. at best, and suicidal at worst, 
ignore the challenge until we are 
The nature of modern war has led considering bow difficult a 

directly threatened, but It is neces­to the manufacture of conventional "controlled" nuclear exchange 
sary to make a stand today. Tomor­weapons which are roughly ten would be to orchestrate. 
row may be too late. times more effective than the To improve the situation, I sug­
A universal draft, though morally weapons used in WWII. gest a universal 'draft (with al­
and physically unpleasant, would In­Studies of the 1973 Arab-Israeli ternatives for conscientious 
crease the security of the whole U.S. 
war have shown that units in combat objectors). 
"Greater love hath no man than to 
for approximately two weeks suf­This would alleviate the economi­lay down his life for his friends." lsn 't 
fered approximately 70 percent cally dangerous dependance upon that what being a Christian Is all 
casualties. This generalization is technology, and would give the U.S. 
about? 

assumed to be for a conventional Armed Forces the numbers needed war in Europe. to fight a modern battle of massively· Richard Lechowicb is a govern­Thirdly, the size of the Soviet concentrated forces, while ending ment/history double major in bis army. the dependance upon nuclear thirdyear ofArmy ROTC. 
==--Ihe_Obset:Ver== Editorial Board Department Managers 
The Obrerz•er is an independent ncw~papcr publr~hcd by the students of the 
E'ditor-in-Chief.......: ...................... Michael Monk Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello Unrvcr,ity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Colle~-:c. It does not nt'l.es~arily 
Managing Edttor ................ Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller .............................................Eric Schulz rdlt'lt the poiKirs of the administration of either institution. The news i~ report 
Executive News Edttor ......................... Kelli Flint Advertisi11g Manager....................... Chris Owen t·J as a(curately and as ohjcdivcly as possible. Editorials reprt'Sent the opinion of 
SMC Executive Editor............Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager._. ..r............Maura Murphy a ma1onty of the Edrtorial Hoard. Co.nmcntarics, opinions and letters are the views 
Sports Editor ................................... Chris Needles Circulation Manager .......................... Ray Inglinof therr authors. ( olumn sp.1<e is avarl.1ble to all rnembers of the LOmmunrty, and 
Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley the free expression of varyrng opinrons on campu~. through letters, ii enlOunged. Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown 
Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount hmndt"d Novt"mber .i, 19(J6
P.O.Box Q, Notrt" Damt",IN 'l(lSS6 (219) l.i9-S505 
Sports Special--The NFL Draft Thursday, April29, 1982-page 8 
Crable moves on to glamour of Big Apple 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame's defense will have to adjust to life without their all-time tackling leader, Bob Crable. But Crable has some adjusting to do, too. 
The two-time co-captain and Irish MVP became the New YorkJets' first round pick in the NFL draft Tuesday. Soon, Bob and his wife Lisa must cope with life in a city over I00 times the size ofSouth Bend. 
"I've never lived in a really big city before," said the Cincinnati, Ohio, native, "but I'm real­ly looking forward to life in New York. I won't get bored, that's for sure," he grinned. "I've heard a lot ofgood things about that city." 

Name: Bob Crable Position: Linebacker Height: 6-3 Weight: 220 Home: Cincinnati, Ohio Major: Marketing Drafted by: NewYorkjets Round/Pick: 1st/24th 
TheJets, who last year earned a berth in the AFC playoffs as a wildcard team, had obviously heard lots ofgood things about the 6-3, 220­lb. ex-Moeller star, too. 
"Bob Crable is obviously a quality athlete, but we'd heard a lot about his intangible qualities, also," confirmed Mike Hickey, spokesman for the Jets. "He has that quality of rising to any challenge. He's a great leader. 
"The thing that stood out in our minds was his undying competitive fire. When the going got tough toward the end of Notre Dame's season, in games like Penn State and Miami, he had every opportunity to lay down and accept defeat, to quit. Instead, he came back for more." 
Now Crable, the 24th pick overall, will be 
playing in back ofthe NFL's most aggresssive 
front four. TheJets' defensive line-Mark 
Gastineau, Marty Lyons, Abdul Salaam andJoe 
K.lecko -was tagged the "New York Sack Ex­
change" last season after leading the league 
with 66 sacks. 
"You've got to have the horses up front, and they have," said Crable. "TheJets have one of the best front fours in the business, and just to have the opportunity to play behind those guys is an honor." 
Crable, who recorded a Notre Dame record 
521 tackles in his four years with the lnsh, has 
work to do before he can Mep in and start 
compiling statistics in a New York uniform. 
Right now, the jets are utilizing two people at the middle linebacker spot "From what I understand, they switched a couple ofguys back and forth last season," explained Crable. "One was good in running situations, and the other was better in passing situations." 
"But I feel cortfident that I have the skills 
necessary to work with the team," he added. 
Though Crable prefers and feels most com­fortable in the middle, New York's coaches say he has the potential to play any ofthe three linebacker posts. 
"We'll bring him to training camp and see where he fits in best," Hickey said. 
Crable, who earned a reputation for emit­ting enthusiasm during his college days, says carrying that fervor over to the professional leagues is easy. 
"I'm really excited. Doing something I've enjoyed all my life and finally getting paid for it -it's strange. But it's a very, very pleasurable feeling." 
Besides possessing the obvious talents that go with being a concensus All-America pick, Crable's intensity is part ofwhat caught the eye ofWalt Micheals, theJets' coach. 
"He should fit into the enthusiastic style of our defense," said Michaels, a former linebacker. 
"It's a special kind of team that has that sort ofenthusiasm," offered Crable. "And the.Jets have it. You have to be emotional enough to knock a guy backwards. Yet you have to be able to think, too." 
And New York's head man has no doubts about Crable's ability in that department. 
"Bob has good intelligence," praised Mic­haels. "I can see him helping us. He's a very consistent football player, and a very in­stinctive linebacker. He knows how to get to the football. 
"Bob is a hitter and a winner, and we're very happy to have him." 

The Draft, Rounds 1 thru 4 
Round One 

1 New England, Ken S1ms, dt. Texas: 2. Balt•more. John1e Cooks. lb. MISSISSippi State. 3 New Orleans.lorfe•ted p1ck 1n 1981 supplemental draft lor Dave W1lson, qb. lllino•s: 4. Cleveland, Chip Banks, lb, USC; 5. Baltimore (from Los Angeles), Art Schlichter, qb. Oh1o State. 6 Ch1cago, J1m McMahon, qb. Bngham Young: 7 Seattle. Jeff Bryant, de, Clemson: 8 Minnesota. Damn Nelson, rb, Stanford: II. Houston, Mike Munchek, og, Penn State; 10. At­lanta, Gerald R1ggs, rb, Anzona State: 11. Oakland, Marcus Allen, rb, USC; 12 Kansas C1ty (from St. Louis), Anthony Hancock, wr, Tennessee: 13 Ptttsburgh. Walter Abercrombie, rb. Baylor. 14 New Orleans (from Green Bay through San D1ego), L1ndsay Scott, wr, Georg1a· 15. Los Angeles (from Washmgton), Barry Redden. rb. R1chmond: 16 DetrOit, J1mmy W1ll1ams, lb, Nebraska: 17. St. LOUIS (from Kansas Ctty), LUis Sharpe. ot. UCLA: 18. Tampa Bav. Sean 
Fa,..u, og, Pann State; 18. New York Giants, Butch Woolfolk, 
rb, Michigan; 20 Buffalo (from Denver), Perry Tuttle, wr. Clemson: 
21. Philadelphia, Mtke Ou1Ck, wr, North Carol1na State: 22. Denver (from Buffalo), Gerald Willhite, rb, San Jose State: 23. Green Bay (from San D1ego), Ron Hallstrom, og. Iowa. 24. New York Jats, Bob Crable, lb, Notre Dame; 25. Miami, Roy Foster, og, USC; 
26. Dallas, Rod Hill, db, Kentucky State, 27. Cincinnati, Glen Col­lins, de, M•sstsstppl State: 28. New England (from San Fren­ci8Co), Laster Williams, dt, Miami (Fie.). 
Round Two 

1. Baltimore, Lao Wisniewski, dt, Penn State; 2. Sen Francisco (from New England), Bubbe Herrla, ot, Michigan; 3. New Orleans, Brad Edelman, c, Mrssouri; 4. Cleveland, Kerth Baldw1n, de, Texas A&M: 5. Tampa Bay (from Ch1cago). Booker Reeses. de, Bethune-Cookman: 6 Seattle, Bruce Scholtz, lb, Texas: 7. Baltimore (from Loa Angelea), Rohn Stark, p, Florida State; 8 Oakland (from Houston), Jack SqUirek, lb, IllinOis: 9. At­lanta, Doug Rogers, de, Stanford: 10. Oakland, Jim Romano, c, Penn State; 11. St. LOUIS, Dav1d Galloway, dt, Flonda: 12. Min­nesota, Terry Tausch, ot, Texas: 13 New England (from Green Bay through San D1ego), Robert Weathers, rb, Arizona State, 14 New England (from Wash1ngton through San FranciSCO), Andre Tippett. de, Iowa: 15 DetrOit, Bob Watk1ns, db, Southwest Texas State: 16. Pittsburgh, John Meyer, ot, Arizona State: 17. Houston (lrom Los Angeles through Tampa Bay and M1am1), Oliver Luck, qb, West V~rg1ma: 18. New York G1ants, Joe Morns, rb, Syracuse: 19 Kansas C1ty, Calvin Daniels, lb. North Carolina: 20. Phtladelphla, Lawrence Sampleton, te, Texas: 21 Buffalo. Matt Kofler. qb, San D1ego State: 22 Washmgton (from San D1ego through Los Angeles), Vernon Dean, db, San D1ego State. 23. Denver, Orlando McDaniel, wr, Louisiana State; 24 New York Jets, Regg1e McElroy, ot, West T"xas State: 25 Miamt, Mark Duper. wr. Northwest Louisiana: 26. Dallas. Jeff Rohrer, lb. Yale: 27 C1nc1nnatl, Emanuel Weaver. dt. 
South Carolina, 28 New England (from San Francisco), Darryl 
Haley. at, Utah 

RoundThr" 
1 New England. Cednc Jones, wr, Duke, 2. Baltimore, Jim Bur­
roughs, db, Michigan State; 3. New Orleans, Rodney Lew1s, db, Nebraska, 4 Buffalo (lrom Cleveland). Eugene Marva, lb, Sag1naw Valley. 5 New England (from Seattle), Clayton We1shohn. lb. An· gelo Stare: 6 Washmgcon (from Los Angeles}, Carl Powell. wr, Jackso~ S)ate: 7. Ch1cago, T1m Wnghtmann, wr, UCLA, 8 Atlanta, Stacy Bailey, wr, San Jose State: 9. Oakland, Vann McElroy, db. Baylor: 10 St LoUis, V1nny Pernn, db, Alabama: 11 New Orleans (from Minnesota). Eugene Goodlow. wr. Kansas State: 12. Los An· geles (lrom Houston), B1ll Bechtold, c. Oklahoma: 13. New Orleans (from Washington), Ken Duckett. wr, Wake Forest: 14. Detroit, Steven Dotg, lb, New Hampsh~re: 15. Pittsburgh, Mike Mernweat­her, lb, Pac1flc: 16. Green Bay, Del Rodgers, rb, Utah: 17. Houston (from New York Giants), Stan Edwards, rb Michigan; 18. St. LouiS (from Kansas C1ty), Rusty Guilbeau, de, McNeese State: 19 Tampa Bay, Jerry Bell, te, Anzona State: 20. Seattle (from Buffalo), Pete Metzelaars, te, Wabash; 21. New Orleans (from San Diego), John Krlmm, db, !l!otre Dame; 22 Houston (from Denver through Los Angeles), Robert Abraham, lb, North Carolina State: 23. Philadelphia, Vyto Kab, te, Penn State; 24 New York Jets, Duane Crutchfield, rb. Iowa State: 25. Miami, Paul Langford, db, Penn State; 26. Dallas, Jrm Ehopulos, lb. Wyommg; 27. Crnctnnatr, 
Rodney Holman, te, Tulane: 28 Tampa Bay (from San Franc1sco 
through San D1ego), John Cannon, de, Wilham & Mary. 
Round Four 
1 Balt•more, M1ke Pagel. qb. Anzona State, 2 New England, 
George Crump, de, East Carolina, 3. New Orleans, Morten Ander­
son, k, Michigan State; 4 Cleveland, Dwight Walker, wr. Nicholls 
State: 5. Los Angeles, Jeff Gaylord, lb. M1ssoun: 6. Ch1cago. Denms 
Gentry, rb, Baylor: 7 St. Lou1s (from Seattle). James Robbins, ot, 
East Carolina: 8. Oakland, Ed Murensky, at, Michigan: 9. Buffalo 
(from St LoUis), Van Wtlhams, rb, Garson-Newmann: 10 M1n· 
nesota, Jtm Fahnhorst, lb, Minnesota: 11. Houston, Steve Bryant, 
wr, Purdue; 12. Atlanta, Regg1e Brown, rb, Oregon: 13 Detroit, 
Bruce McNorton, db, Georgetown, Ky . 14 Pittsburgh, R1ck Woods. 
db, Bo•se State: 15. Green Bay, Robert Brown, de, Virg1n1a Tech: 
16 Washington, Todd L1ebenstetn, de, Nevada·Las Vegas: 17 
Kansas Ctty, LoUis Ha1nes. lb. North Texas State: 18. Dalla• (from 
Tempe Bay), Brien Carpenter, db, Michigan; 19 New York 
G1ants, Gerry Raymond, og, Boston College: 20. Tampa Bay (from 
San D1ego), Dave Barett. fb, Houston: 21. Kansas C1ty (from Den· 
ver), Stuart Anderson, lb, Virg1ma: 22. Philadelphia, Anthony 
Gnggs, lb. Ohio State: 23 Denver (from Buffalo), Dan Plater, wr. 
Bngham Young: 24 New York Jets, George Floyd, db, Eastern 
Kentucky: 25. M1ami, Charles Bowser, lb. Duke, 26. Dallas, Monty 
Hunter, db, Salem: 27. Cmcmnat1, Rodeny Tate, rb, Texas: 28 New 
England (lrom San Franctsco). Bnan Ingram. lb, Tennessee 
LinebackerBob Crable, shown here with Gerry Faust, will soon be discussing strategy with New Yorkjets' Coach Walt Michaels. Crable is excited about playing behind thejets' coveted ".Sack Exchange. (Photo by Tonia Hap) 
Domers in the 
An Observer 
Krimm shuns law school, i 
By CHRIS NEEDLES 
Sports Editor 
Last month, Notre Dame Academic All­America cornerback john Krimm, he of the 
3.70 GPA, was the proud recipient ofan NCAA graduate scholar~hip, which he planned to use to help pay for law school. 
Well, those plans will have lo wait a little 
while. 
On Tuesday, Krimm was chosen in the third 
round of the NFL Draft by the New Orleans 
Saints, who made him the 77th pick overall. 
The Columbus, Ohio, native was the seventh 
defensive back taken, following Bob Watkins 
ofSouthwest Texas State, Vernon Dean ofSan 
Diego State, Jim Burroughs of Michigan State, 
Rodney Lewis ofNehraska, Vann McElroy of 
Baylor and Vinny Perrin ofAlabama. 
Entering Tuesday's opening round, the 6-2, 
18:3-pounder had been considered one ofthe 
top prospects available at his position. So why 
was he only the seventh defensive back 
chosen? 
Saints officials hinted that the major reason was Krimm's speed, or lack thereof. Although he usually is described as being "quick," 
Name:John Krimm Position: Defensive Back Height: 6-2 Weight: 183 Home: Columbus, Ohio Major: Philosophy Drafted by: New Orleans Round/Pick: 3rd/2lst 


-~. -~ 
·------____._ --­
Sports Special--The NFL Draft Thursday, April29, 1982-page 9 
Pozderac'spotential lands him with Dallas 

Offensive tackle Phil Pozderac may he tried on defense with hi~ new team, the Dallas Cowboys. According to the Cowboys, Pozderac was selectedfor his size andpotential. (Photo by Tonia Hap) 
982 NFL Draft 

orts Special 

As a result, the Saints plan to shift Krimm to the saJcty position, where they have been noticeably weak in recent ycar1>. 
headed for Bourbon Street 
.....,...PI\. .. Krimm onlv can boast a lime ol4.6 in the 40·A yard dash, ~hich is slower than most NFl. per·-r formers at the cornerback position. 
Not ~urprisingly, Krimm is happy 10 be going lll a team where he has a good chance of cracking the lineup right away. Ofcourse, the scenery doesn't hurt, either. 
''I'm prl·tty excited to be going to New Or· leans," said Krimm. "I wa~ just down there this morning for a press conference, and it seems like a real nice wwn. The Saints arc a good or· 
ganization and they're building tor the future well." 
Krimm doesn't see any dilliculty making the transition from the cornerback position to saJcty. "I'll just have to go down there and see how it goes," he said. "They'll put me at free 
' safety and see how I like it there. I don't forsee any problems." 
When he officially joins New Orleans for its summer workouts, Krimm will be reunited with an old Notre Dame teammate -former cornerback Dave Waymer, who has been with the Saints for two seasons. "I played behind him my freshman year," Krimm said. "He's a fun guy to be around. I'm looking forward to being with him down there." 
As for choosing between pro football and law school, there is no question in Krimm's mind which takes precedence. "l.aw school will have to go on the back burner for a while," he said. ''I'll wait until I'm finished my career and then I'll go. Right now my No. 1 priority is toothall." 
Krimm already had been accepted to Vir· ginia, Duke, Notre Dame anll Ohio State law schools, but will ask lor a "lleferrell accep· tance" to his t1nal choice in order to give pro football a crack. 
By CHRIS NEEDLES 
Sports Editor 
The city of Dallas, Texas, which once was 
"The Land ofToo Tall," can now he referred to 
as "The Land ofTwo Tall." 
In a classic example of"Can You Top This?," 
the Dallas Cowboys, who already possess the 
National Football League's tallest player in 6·9 
defensive end Ed "Too Tall" Jones, drafted 
Notre Dame's 6-9 offensive tackle Phil Poz-· 
derac as the 26th player in the fifth round on 
Tuesday. 
Pozdcrac, who was Notre Dame's ofl"cnsive 
MVP last season, will go into training camp as 
an offen~ive lineman. But, according to Cow­
boy officials, he may have to undergo a posi­
tion change -to thedefensir•e line. 
"lle'll he looked at as a possible convert to 
the defensive line," said a Cowboy spokes­
man. "Our offensive line is young, but our 
detensive line bolder and there's not much 
depth there." 
Admittedly, Pozderac would have a great 
deal of trouble breaking into the Cowboy of­
fensive line, which is considered the finest in 
all ofpro football -including two consensus 
All-Pros in Herbert Scott anll Pat Donovan. 
So, why did the Cowboys draft someone in their strong suit? 
"We drafted him solely on potential," the spokesman marvelled. "He's huge. We don't have anyone (on the offensive line) that big on the roster. There's nobody that big on the team except for 'Too Tall' Jones." 
Pozderac was unavailable for comment. 
Although Pozderac didn't go until the fifth round, the Cowboy spokesman seemed to feel that Dallas had found itself a real steal. "Obviously, we think enough ofhis potential," the spokesman said, "either offensively or defensively, or we wouldn't have drafted him." 

Pozderac was a steady, if unspectacular, performer in his four years at Notre Dame. But Dallas Cowboy officials think the best is yet to come. 

Name: Phil Pozderac Position: Offensive Tackle Height: 6-9 Weight: 260 Home: Garfield Heights, 
Ohio Major: Business Drafted by: Dallas Round/Pick: 5th/26th 
For those overlooked, the dream hasn't died 
By DAPHNE BAILLE 
Sports Writer 
When the final rounds of the NFL Draft were completed yesterday, a few Irish stan· douts still hadn't received that long-awaited phone call. Among the seniors not tapped in the draft were Dean Masztak, Tim Koegel, Har· ry Oliver and Bernie Adell. However, none of them has ruled out the prospect ofplaying pro 
football. 
Tight end Dean Masztak, an All-America prospt·ct at the beginning of the 19H2 season, found first his college career and then his draft hopes upset by injuries. His junior campaign was interrupted hy a severt· ankle sprain, and his senior year ended with knee surgery after only six games. 
Nevertheless, the talented receiver can ex­pect to hear from pro teams soon. He led the Irish in receptions in an impressive sopho· more campaign, and continuell to earn praise as a healthy upperclassman. 
''I'll probably be signing with somebody 
within the next week," says the Toledo, Ohio, 
native. ''I'll try to get tryouts as a free agent, 
and if things don't work out in the NFL, I can 
go to Canada." 
When football drops out of the picture. the 
finance major will seek a job with an in· 
surance company. 
Tim Koegel, who shared the quarterback­
ing duties with Blair Kiellast season, has been 
talking w a couple ofpro teams. "Naturally, I'd 
like to go someplace where I'd have a shot at 
making the team," explains the Cincinnati 
Moeller product. "Ifa tt·am has three es­
tablished quarterbacks, then I don't have 
much of a chance. So I've been talking to 
teams that lack depth at that position -they 
might use me." 
In the event that football doesn't work out, 
the American Stullies graduate will return to 
Notre Dame to attend law school in the fall. 
''I'd like to combine football and law 
school," says Koegel, "so Icould attend school 
wherever I happen to he living. If I don't play 
football, then I'll just get started on my law de­
gree." 

Placekicker Harry Oliver has worked out 
with the New England Patriots, but expects to 
hear more news within the next few days. The 
5-11, IH5-pound kicker has I ell the Irish in 
scoring for the past two years, and he kicked a 
Notre Dame-record 18 tleld goals in his junior 
year. He finished his college career with 24 
His, second only to Davt: Reeve on the career 
charts. 

Oliver explains that relatively few kickers g~t calle~ in the draft selection~. "The top ktcker thts year -Morton Anderson -went in the fourth round, hut most I think most kickers go as free agents." 
Oliver also has options in case pro football doesn't figure in his future. A mechanical engineering major, he plan~ to return to Notre Dame in the fall to complete degree requirt·· ments. 
Tailback Bernie Adell seems comfortable about what the future holds for him. "I plan to try out as a free agent," offers the 'i-1 0, 20'i· pounder. "I've worked out for Cincinnati, Los Angeles, Dalla~ anll Denver. I'd like to go where the opportunity is-obviously 1don't want to go to a team Ioadell with running 
backs." 

lfhe doesn't get picked up by a pro dub, the 
economics major is prepared for Plan B. "I 
have an interview coming up with Merrill 
Lynch in New York, so hopefully something 
will come of that. If not, I can work for our 
cable TV station back home (Ipswich, Mass.)." 
. Football or no football, these senior grid· 
ders who were left out of the draft derby arc 
ready to step out into the world. 
Sports :Jpecial layout by Chris Needles 

~~()1"ts~/~l~,..~i~e~S~==============================Th=u=rs=ct=~='ATp~r~il~29=,~~--9~s~z;_;p~a;~e===Io 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
The Blue-Gold game, the annual intrasquad foot­ball scrimmage, will take place this Saturday, May 1, at Notre Dame Stadium. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be admitted free of charge by showing their ID. Tickets for the general public are available now and are priced at S2.50 for adults and n.oo for children under I7. Tickets also can be purchased the day ofthe game for $3.50 (adults) and Sl.50 (children): Proceeds will benefit the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph County and its annual scholarship fund drive. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame baseball teamplayshostto Valparaiso today at 2:30p.m. on jake Kline Field. The Irish, 21-12, have won eight oftheir last I 0 games. -the Observer 
De Paul's Blue Demons will invade Courtney Tennis Center today for a 2:30 p.m. match with the Notre Dame men's team. -The Observer 
The SMC softball team won a doubleheader over Grace College yesterday. Annie Day was the winning pitcher in the first game, which the Belles won 3-1. Mary Beth Host inski was the st:u ofthe second game, which the Belles won 6-2. Hosinski, who was the winning pitcher, also had a single and a double. Elaine Suess had a triple and three RBis. The wins broke a five-game Belles losing streak. Saint Mary's will play host to the Indiana Division III State Championships this weekend. The Belles, seeded frrst in the tourna­ment, received a first-round bye. Notre Dame, Grace College, De Pauw, Manchester College, Huntington University and Anderson College will participate in the tournament, which begins tomorrow 
morning on the Angela diamond. -The Observer 


NATIONAL LEAGUE  
Eaat  
w  L  Pet_  GB  
St. lOUIS  14  6  .700  
Montreal  9  6  600  2.5  
New York  10  8  .556  3  
Pittsburgh  7  9  .438  5  
Chicago  7  12  368  6.5  
Philadelphia  5  12  .294  7.5  
Weat  
Atlanta  14  5  .737  
San Diego  12  5  .706  1  
Los Angeles  9  10  .474  5  
San f-:ancisco  7  11  .389  6.5  
Houston  8  13  381  7  
Cinctnnatt  7  12  .368  7  
Yeatarday'a R..u"•  
Ch•cago 6, Cincinnati 0  
St. Louis 5, Houston 4  
San Franc1sco 7, Montreal 0  
Atlanta 7, Pittsburgh 6 (1 0 innings)  
New York 5, San Diego 4  
Philadelphia 9, Los Angeles 3  
AMERICAN LEAGUE  
yeatarday'• Raau"•  
Oakland 6-1, Ballimore 2-5  
Toronto 6. Texas 4  
Kansas City 8, Boston 5  
Cleveland 6, Seattle 1  
New York 6, Calilornia 0  
Milwaukee 2, Chicago 1  
Minnesota 4, Detroil2  

The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to 1nsertton. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
either in person or through the mail. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
EARN UP TO $500 OR MORE EACH YEAR BEGINNING SEPTEMBER FOR 1-3 YEARS. SET YOUR OWN HOURS. MONTHLY PAYMENT FOR PLACING POSTERS ON CAMPUS BONUS BASED ON RESULTS. PRIZES AWARDED AS WELL 800-526·0883. 
I desperately need a nde down South for the summer Houston IS the destination, but Chicago, St. Louis, Lou•sville, Nash­VIlle, or AnywheN near the Texas board­er w1lfdo. Call limo at 1782, Will share the usual.thanx 
LOST/FOUND 
Lost: One set of keys somewhere be­
tween Sacred Heart and Lew1s. If found, 
please return to 406 Howard or call M1ke 
at8279. 
FOUND: A puppy in the Administration 
Building on April 27, 1982. Please call 
Luci at 5258 between 7 and 4 and Identify. 
Lost: Prescription sunglasses during An 
T ostal picnic by North Dining HaiL If 
found, please call X2184. 
Found: Gold earing by Stepan B-Ball courts. Call 2n-0884 for appointment. If ij 
fits the hole in your ear, it's yours. 
Lost: A tweed 0\18\'CO&I. Reward if found. 
Louis ph 3160 
Lost Dunlop Max-Hi pitching wedge on wed 4/21 on or near 7th green if found· please call vince at 272-7645 
FOUND CAT Black & while with black spot on nose & blue diarriond stud col/at near Morrissey and Howard halls. Call41­5652. 
······························································" 
FOUND: lei of keya in front of BP on Sat. during antostal Obstacle course. CON-.. 

NEED TWO ROOMATES TO SHARE CAMPUS VIEW APT. NEXT YEAR CALL RICK AT 277-7565. 
WANTED 
Wanted: A ride to ATLANTA alter commencement. Take me home Call 8649. 
PART-TIME TUTC)RS f~; Ed~cat1onal Center to teach classes of students preparing for LSAT or MCAT. Requ~res h•gh GPA, teachmg expenence a plus. Des~re law student for LSAT. med1cal or graduate or PhD student In sc1ence area for MCAT. Classes beg1n in June, con­tinued employment possible throughout· year. Call 232-2366. 
TWO DESPERATE WOMEN NEED A PLACE TO SLEEP PLEASE SELL US YOUR LOFT CALL DIANE OR MARl AT 8006 AND MAKE US AN OFFER 
NEED AIDE to Ball State or Kokomo weekend of April 30 will share $$ Call 8088 
ROOMMATE WANTED: Clean 2 bedroom home. Good area, nice yard. Furnished except for bedroom. Call 234­1661 days or 234·9970 evnings. Ask for Colleen. 
N~;;d rld..t~ 6C: .~~. ~~~~ ~s p~~~,i;j~ af­
ter Sat, May 8. Call Brian 4521 
Heading for HOUSTON and have some extra space? I need to get some bulky items hauled home. Will share some costs. Call 8621. 
NEEDED: a ride lrom the east to Notre Dame at the end of August. Please call John al 18~ B. Will share usual and I w~l not have any luggage. 
Need ride to Ph1lly on May 12 or anytime alter. Call Maryeva at 2!K». 
TACT l!e4-45811TO CLAIM. ·: f . NEEO GRAD TIXII BIG BUCKSII Calt Bill 
Katz at 1185 
If anyone haa "tound·· the 43 or~ trai­
IIC-andthe keg witll ite tap that w.,. 

...........~·· ..............................·""''-._..~...."'.... 
riders needed to san fco.(bay area).
MOlen !rom the An Tostal rental truck that leaving around may 14.call jaime 233­waa behind Sl. Eds Thurs. night, they can 6032.

be lnonomously returned to the Sluderil Union OffiC8 or call 3653. You·re only lllealing your own money. 

Need ride to Buffalo anytime after May 5.
..............................................................,. 

Engaging conversationalist, also able toATTENTION/ be silent for long periods upon demandWe need your help Also Independently serni•weallhy,YEARBOOKS have been distributed compared to sharecroppers. Call Bruce at which have names embossed on the 239-7471 or 2n-4851
lower right hand cover. These are per· sonalized copies which belong to person­net and. administrators. Because of the personal value of these bool<s, we would &ppr&Ciale their being returned to the Stu­

FOR SALE 
dent Activities Office in Le Fortune as 
soon as possible I Thank you for your

' 
..... ... . ... .... 

..
cooperation -The DOME 1982 Staff USED & OUT-PAINT BOOKS bought, 
~ sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS.
Lost: $50 Reward. Creamy While St. 

Tues-Sunday,12-6.1027E. Wayne(OneJohn·a knit Jacket. Lost In Moms Inn or 
Parking lot. April 17th. Call x283-1075. 

I 
block south of Eddy-Jefferson Intersec­tion.) 
lost pr. of gold-w~re rimmed eye glasses in 
hard cover black case. DESPERATELY 

NEEDED. call M1ke 234-9805. USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED.. I 
SAT. SUN. 9-7 CASP£RSON 1303 BUCHANAN RD., NILES 
LOST: BLUE N.D. GYM BAG LEFT BY THE BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL COURTS ON FRIDAY 4/26. I Special DIKounta for Notre Dame DESPEAATLY NEED THE GLASSES tacuHy on computers and penpheralLEFT IN THE BAG. IF FOUND PLEASE products. printers. modems, etc. Hewlett· 

CONTACT MIKE AT 2n -2046 OR Packard, Zenith. FOURWAY COM­

TURN IT IN TO LOST AND FOUND AT PUTER PRODUCTS, INC., 52758 US 31 

THE AD. BUILDING. 

North (Acroulrom North VIllage M•ff) 277·7720. 
LOSTLOST Three gold rings and a gold For Sale: Stereo -JVC com­IF ANYONE PICKED UP A YELLOW ponents,AAL speakers. Must hear toSPORT JACKET WITH BURGUNDY believe! Call Ted at x1780TRIM FROM THE BADIN LAUNDRY 

TWO WEEKS AGO PLEASE CALL VIC AT3253 
for sale Yamaha 12stringgUitar. call11~9 GET HOME CHEAPER! I NEED AIDE TO NEW YORK CITY! I HAVE NO 
LUGGAGE (THAT'S RIGHT, NO 1975 VW, low m11eage, good car, no rust LUGGAGEf) LEAVING TUESDAY MAY 
AM-FM rad1o. Asking $2500. or make of­11· CALL PAUL 1603 
ler. 259-2367, ask for Nancy. 

LOST: One pair of Puma gym shoes. BE 
4-sale 74 MGB burg. 63,400m. good SERIOUS! I can fit both my feet in your 
cond. $2300 call 255-9784 SIZE ELEVEN "sneakers We took the wrong shoes at the TWISTER GAME at 
CELLO FOR SALE. CALL 234-9974 RECESS. Please call8580 
PEAVEY BASS AMP 50 WATTS 15· lost: Friday mght by St. Joe lake -a gold 
SPKR CALL LARRY x1592 ring with the initial M on it Reward 1f 
found. Please call Meghan at277-6074. 
BASS LIKE NEW, CALL LARRY xt592 

Navy blue blazer exchanged at PW 
FOR SALE-$40 MARSAND CAMERA 

S.Y.R. in Feb. Call Rick al8713 for your 
BAG FOR $15-VERY GOOD CONDI­

Hudson blazer. 
TION CALL CHERYL AT 283-3194 OR 

AT OBSERVER LOST Wed. Apr 14 at ACC-gold ladies Bulova watch -REWARD!!!! $20.00 
2 Ultralinear speakers for sale. Very, very REWARD for return -call Kathy 7795 or cheap. call4357. 277-6052. 
FOR SALE: Power Winder A for a Canon LOST -INTERMEDIATE ACCOUNTING AE-1. Barely used. Excellent condition. BOOK TAKEN FROM S. DINING HALL, 
$50. Call Greg at 2:33-4381 TUES DINER MONEY OFFERED FOR ITS RETURN CALL PAUL 3207 
FOR SALE. Compact Stereo System; 3­

Speed, 20-in. Fan; Nightstand Lamp; to­lost: Blue and White Warm-up Top at the Speed Bike. Call JEFF at1434 Bookstore courts on Monday the 26th. If found please contact Mike, a.k.a. ··Bobo,·· 
Hit the Waves/ One waterbed for sale at1689. cheap. complete with rails and whole set 
up ..$120or best offer. call 3410 Lost White jacket 1n Flanners party room 4/23/82. If you picked it up by mistake, 
please call Jim at 1 067. 
I 

···· d........... : ~ . TICKETS 
FOR RENT l. ,;i;;;;;i·g;~;;;;~;;;·ii~.car/J.,;;;63 
....... . 

P-.. 1M the whole family -me For Rent: Student Housing -rated supe· 
grlldullle -I .-~ 2 more tlckata. Call rior-summer and/or fall. Clean. sate. 
Uaryl771 

laundry, utilities, $100/rno total. 291­1405 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 GRAD. TIXI CALLBOB2n-1117. 

e;···y~~~..·-~;~....~~:-~~~~rt~bi~···s 
Need up to 3 Graduation Tix. SS$Jim 287­bedroom, complete! y furnished house for 

3607

5or6. Close tocampus. Phone2118-3942. 
NO REASONABLE OFFER REFUSED. I 
wm pay BIG MONE:Y for your graduation 2 student houses IOOr ten! on Ntr• Dame tickets. Call Mike at 6700. 

Ave. One 4-stu, one 5-stu house. Wrthin 
walking distance. Avail. fall semester 82. Call evenings 272-8870. 
NEED SINGLE GRADUATION TICKET. 

CALL PAUL, 1501. House for rent summer only, close to campus, excellent condition. 287-536l. MONEY! Low supply and h1gh demand 
normally. Am willing to trade money for a 3 houses for rent -all on same block. 5 graduation ticket in order to do my part to bdrm-$450, 6 bdrm-$540 per mo. CaH maintain the economy·s cash flow. If you 277-3461 or 272-9299. are Willing to dO your part, call Kelly at 
1550. 

5 ROOMS FURNISHED AT $125 PER Family won·t believe it unless they see it. PERSON WITH UTILITIES PAID. HOME Need three grad. tix! Call John 1730. AWAY FROM HOME. NEWLY DECORATED WITH PANELLING AND Need one grad tic. Call Mac 1738 NEW CARPETING IN EVERY ROOM. ALL SHARE HUGE LIVING ROOM WITH Need 1 graduation 11cket -BIG BUCKS! FIREPLACE KITCHEN WITH CARPET­Call Alck-8713 ING AND APPLIANCES AND ALL UTEN­
SILS. TWO BATHROOMS WITH Need 4 grad. tickets$$$ call Jim at 234­SHOWER AND BATH. DOUBLE 9805. leave message. GARAGE AND GOOD PARKING FACILITIES. CALL 233-2245 OR 282-For Sale: 2 grad tix call Kevin at8168. 1664 
SUMMER SUBLET-Turtle Creek Ava1/. 5/15-8/30 1/2 share of two bedroom apt 
PERSONALS 

Fully furnished, pool. $95 per month. Call Jack 2n-n85. 
GERMAN CLUB DOUBLEHEADER Tues March 30 Stammtisch at 5PM Bier­CAMPUS VIEW APT SUBLET FOR 

fest at Sen1orbar 10:00-12:30 

SUMMER VERY REASONABLE REDUCED RENT TWO BDRM. POOL AIR COND. CALL 272-5438 All lnnsbruckers and German Club members are inv1ted to a BIEAFEST at 
JUDY FENLON, who pretenda to be from Minnesota when ahe Ia really from St. Paul, will preaent a aym· poalum on Mays. The topic of the aym· poalum will be ..The Minnesota North Stare, why do they allnk?... The North Stars' untimely dlamlael from the NHL playolfa will be dlacuaaed In detail. 
Atlanta .Atlanta ..AIIantl I need a nde to Atlanta alter commence­ment. Take me home Call Jeb at 
8649. 
Dear Terry, 

There are many th1ngs I have to say 
But to say them all would take all day. So have a happy cheery day. On April 29th your birhtday. 
Love, 
Rob 

Going West? help II need a ride to IDAHO! after exams or grad. Please call Kathy 
8036 

ATTENTION GRACE HALL UNDER­
GRADUATES: Be forewarned during 
tonight's room picks that 3 of the last 7 
residents of the 927-928 suite are now 
erther married or engaged. 
The suite 
Amby, 

Let us return to the place rt all began 
and celebrate a wonderful six months of 
fun. 
love Monk 

Desperately need GRADUATION TICK­ETS -Will pay Bucks. Call272-5438 
Hippy & Martins-Invite us to the wedding; We want to get lei-edl!! Congratulations! -B. Speedo, Evansville 
GOLD COAST SLAVE SHIP BOUND FOR COTTON FIELDS SOLO 'EM IN A MARKET DOWN IN NEW ORLEANS 

············-·····-··-·-··--·········-..,--·-··-·
G.J. No jackal huh? 1"1!1 not worth that much? Well you better be careful, You·re just a crip on a crutch! Without people to help you and open your door, You could fall on your face -Yes right on the floor. Sincerely though I hope your knee·s okay, And that you·ll not have to endure a hospital stay. Though as ,. beat you up the stairs I must admit, lfsa relief to know my rivets won·t split Mel 
There s a young lady from Decader, 
Alabama who you might call a little 
spacey who lives at lewis Hall, U of ND. 
lve given her the nickname: ·'Air·Head · 
for two reasons. One cause shes on the 
women ·s basketball team, but espec1ally 
cause she can·t remember thtngs tor 
there is noth1ng m that round thmg be­
tween her shoulders. So if you see a UFO 
1/oallng around, please pull 11 down for I 
don·! want her to float away. She means 
a lot to me and I love her. 
Love, 

Knuckle-Head 
P.S. Also if you need someplace to store some knowledge, she has a lot of room! 
Joe Hurd. license plate collector extraor­dinatre: It s been fun corruptmg you thiS year let·s do it aga~n sometime! 
JOE-Whenever SHE comes over aga1n, Chris can sleep on our couch. Bob&John 
ATTENTION: WOMEN OF ND-SMC YOU can be the FIRST to break panetals with Joe Hurd, Class of '82! Call now for an appointment wtth thts Senior man! 
Ceta: Before you graduate tell ma: What 
number  •m 1 on your  llat  of  
boyfriends?  
Glenn, 3088  

CHAMBER LOSERS 

CHAMBER LOSERS Jailb811 Gigolo, Touchy-feely, Clueless, Boatman, Coverboy, Sister Mary Special, Mr. Sincenty, Swinger, Ginger Lips, Triv1a Man, Ms. Grace, Balloon girl, Ms. Peanut. The Obnoxious Iaugher. Mrs. Sincerity The Freshmen couple, Whining im­migrant, The one with so many friends. Little bookworm, Curly-Beth, One-punch, and ot course The B1g Loser. (also known 
as our director) Thanks for a great semes­ter. It was qUite an experience. From the spaghetti dinner to the Midwest to New Jerusalem, we ve come quite a way!! 
THANKS Ms. Designer 

Mom, Sis, and Spot and what Dan saw. 
John, Joe. the Girl Scout and what her cookies saw. 
To 301 BP bdg~rl: Tonight at eleven By your window shall you hear, A sound that will bring to mind a person dear. Look for a rose giver On the ledge in the rear, Lest he run away inn confusion and 
tsar. 

Dear 406 Keenan, Has anyone seen my virg1mty ly~ng arouned? have lost it. Ripped up in Kentucky 
10 
The DT MOVES UP! Look Out 3EI 

CHRIS, WHAT IS 8&1&3? PERFECT/II WE WOULDN"T PICK ON YOU IF WE OIDN"T LOVE YOU. 
CHERYl AND SUZANNE 
.............................. 
SENIORS: START SENIOR WEEK OUT RIGHT WITH AN ALL-YOU-CAN-DRINK at Lees tomght. Starts al9. 
............................................................. 
PARTY TIL THE COWS COME HOME. PIG ROAST "82 
BLUE-GOLO PIG ROAST. SAT.MAY 1ST AFTER THE GAME 
PIG OUT AT THE PIG ROAST 

DONT MISS DR ZING AND THE MOJO HANDLERS ? AT THE PIG ROAST SATURDAY TIX ON SALE NOW THAU DORM REPS 
PHILADELPHIA CLUB THE PHILL Y CLUB BAGGAGE TRUCK WILl BE LOADING ON SUNDAY-MAY9 FROM 12-4 AT STEPAN CENTER NEWSLETTER FORTHCOMING FOR MORE INFO. CALL CHUCK x8702 KEA· AY x6996 
JIM AZZARELLO, KEN WHITE, MIKE WELCH, JERRY LEVESQUE, MIKE BURTON, DAVE MOORMAN. TIM HART, MARK MANLEY, VINCENT WHITE, RICH TRAUB, JIM FREDRICK­SON. St. Hedwig Pariah Outreach Progr., wlahea to expreaa our lp­precletlon for your financial aut• tance. 
Fr Matt. Lynn and the k1ds 
watch. INVALUABLY SENTIMENTAL (They cannot possibly be worth as much to you as they are to me). $$$ REWARD $$$No questions asked-PLEASE recon­sider! Call 6723. 

Taken from the South Dining Hall Sunda) night, two Physics books: lntro to Quan­tum Mechanics and Thermal Phys1cs. If found call Dan at x 3158. 
Buy and sell your books at Pandora·s. This week only -56'. off on all used paperbacks in store. 937 South Bend Avenue, 233-2342. 
Semorbar Tues March 30. Enjoy $1.00 Dnnk specials and $.25 beers. LD."s re­quired. 
VIC TAYBACK tor SENIOR FELLOW SectionS-A 

To Whom II May Concern: The mnth ugliest person on campus IS really MAGGIE JABLONKA. Thank you. 
Grandpa & Grandma, How s McHenry? I m sorry I haven I wn«en recently. but 1 
hope th1s personal makes up tor 11. Take care and Ill see you soon. I remember our date on the 20th Love, Karen 
-~~-------~------~-~----~-------~--------~-~-------------~ 
The Observer -Sports Thursday, April 29, 1982 -page 11 

Watson favored in Dallas tournam.ent 
DAllAS (AP) -Tom Watson, who has dominated this tournament in a fashion unequalled in pro golf in recent years, is an overwhelming choice to win the 5350,000 Byron Nelson Classic. 
Almost every sign points to Wat­son as the most likely to succeed in the 72-hole chase that begins today on the 6,993-yard Preston Trail Go Club course. 
He's won it four times, including three in a row beginning in 1978. That string was snapped last season -by the margin ofone shot. He lost a title playoff to Bruce Lietzke. 
He has close ties to the tourna­ment, the club and the man whose name is honored here. Watson ac­quired membership In the exclusive men's club several years ago in order to have a practice: facility on his fre­quent trips to Dallas. Many of those trips arc: to visit Nelson, a Hall of Fame: player and Watson's long-time friend and memor, the man he seeks when he needs some: fine-tuning on his game:. 
He's playing very well. In his last four starts, Watson scored his second victory of the season in the Heritage Classic, was fifth in the Mas­ters, sixth in the Tournament of Champions and a fast-closing second in the rain-shortened New Orleans Open that ended Monday. 

Watson, eagerly and aggressively seeking a return to his four-year reign as golfs outstanding perfor­mer, had a no-bogey, 5-under-par 67 in his last competitive round. 
He has an excellent opportunity of regaining the No.I money win­ning spot, a position he held for four years before Tom Kite broke the streak last season. Watson comes in­to this chase for a S63,000 first prize with S199,446 in season's winnings, second only to the 1237,719 compHed by Masters champion Craig Stadler. Stadler is not playing. 
In addition to defending cham­pion Lietzke, U.S. Open titleholder David Graham and Lanny Wadkins, a two-time winner this year, are among the chief challengers. Both now Jive in Dallas and, like Watson, are members ofthe host club. 
Other standouts in the I 56 man field include Lee Trevino, Andy Bean, Ray Floyd and Australian Bob Shearer, who has finished 1-2 in his last two starts. 
llfmfllk ,.,.,_,oftiHl r...,Jeanine Blatt -NO swimming (9} .· < .· ·. ·.. ·· Mary Beth HoslnSid-SMC volleybatVtlOftba!l (5} Mary Beth Schueth ..-NO baske~lt(~) /. · Lisa LaFratta-NO tennis ··· · · 
Shari Matvey-NO b<'!Sk$tball (2) ..··.··· . ··.· Anne Armsti'Oflg -SMC bask$tbaiL(i} .,:, Susan Valdl~rri ~ NO f«tCijlg ·· '•·•···· 
Twila Kitchen -SMC fencing .. Mary Jo Hensler .;,..NO v~:~lleyball Gail Casey-SMC sWimming Ann Hub&r-SMC .tenniS Ruth KlliSel' -NO basketball Loret Haney -SMC vofll&vbiBtl Josie Matemowsl<l Missy Conboy -~~0 bt.Qket~UI·''{· 

GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY SUMMER SCHOOL 
HOME Interpretation and Translation Institute Government/Business/Internships Language courses English as a Foreign Language Writers Conference Washington Laboratory College Preparation Over 200 graduate and undergraduate courses 
Sessions: Pre-May 24-June 18 First Session-June 9-July 13 Eight-week Cross Session-June 9-August4 Six-week Cross Session-June 28-August 6 Second Session-July 14-August 17 
ABROAD Dijon, France -French Leningrad, U.S.S.R.-Russian Oxford, England-Business Administration Quito, Ecuador-Spanish Fiesole, Italy -Italian Trier, West Germany-German Italy, Christian Archeology Field trip Greece, Life and Thought in Ancient Grcel:e Wales, Literary Tour 
SEND MORE INFORMATION 

Name----------------------------------------------­
Address______________________________________________ 
ZIP ______ 
Mail to: SSCE Georgetown University Washington, D.C. 20057 
or call: (202) 625-3006 

Georgetown Uniwrsity is an equal opportunity/ciffirmative action institution in zS and admissions. 
dup. ( AP Photo) 
safe yesterday. The Cubs' Dickie No~les~o;n~e~-h~ititihleiiiiiijij;ii-::::::::-:~-----, 
. .. Qub 
continuedfrom page 16 
The team won both the heavyweight and lightweight classes in the varsity division over teams from Grand Val­Icy State, Chicago University, Lin­coln Park and Culver Military Academy. The novice 'A' squad for the women lost to Grand Valley State but defeated Chicago, while the novice 'B' group defeated all four 
teams in the 2000 meter races. "The women this year have been doing very well," praises president Bob Bennett. "Jill DeLucia (the women's coach) has really improved the women's program quite a bit. This year's group of novices was also one of the better ones for both men and women. They show a lot of promise for the future ofthe team If they con­tinue to work hard." For the men last Saturday, the varsity heavyweights lost to Chicago, but defeated Grand Valley State. The novice squad defeated Grand Valley State and Chicago, but lost to Culver. 
Madison, Wisconsin is the destina­tion this Saturday for the club as it takes part in the 12-team "Midwest Sprints." Seniors competing in their final regatta include captain Ed Dailey and Bennett for the heavyweight men. Women's captain and stroke Vreni Hommes, along with jane Wagner, joan McGowan, Rita Harrington and Kellee Asch will also compete in their final varsity regatta for the club_ 



·~·.... . ' . 
1 April 10, May 1 
BIT.,L 
MURRAY 
IN 
lJ~~ 

@ 7,9,11 Admisaion 81 ---.lingineering Aud. 
Refrigerator Returns 
AprilSO,May 1/Behind Stepan/10 am-6 pm 
ALL refrigerators..must be emptied. cleaned and defrosted. A $S fine will be levied for each requirement not completed. Warning: If refrigerators ue not returned, S. U. will pick it up 
and the entire deposit will be lost. 
H A. TOUR-DE-FORCE... 
MY DINNER WITH ANDRE is a unique mixture of wit, poignance, pathos and dazzling, thought-provoking intellectual vaudeville." 
--Joseph Gelmis, Newsday 
"A UNIQUE, BRIWANT FILM." 
--Roger Ebert, Chicago Sun-Times 
STARTS FRIDAY 
MV 
DINHER 
WitH 
ANDRE 
direcred by 
LOUIS 
MALLE 
wnntn bll. 1nd SIJrnnJ 
ANDRE 
GREGORY 
and 
WALLACE 
SHAWN 
M'l 
DINHER 
WITH 
ANDRE 

1 Mile North of NOTRE DAME on U.S. 31 North • (211) 277-1522 

TheObserver Thursday, April29, 1982-page 12 

·. 


...
... 
'·'~ 
...·,.... 
,,. 

I l
L____________________________________ ­

r i I 
I 
The Observer-Sports 


The Notre Dame lacrosse team willface Michigan State at home on Saturday at3 p.m. (Photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
Century Productions Presents . ..-­THE DAVE BRUBECK QUARTET in concert
Friday,April30 8:30pm Morris Civic Auditorium Tickets: $12,$10,$8, and $5. 
On Sale at the Century Center Box Office 284-9111 Present this ad for $1 off on a pair of tickets. 
~ ···· · · · · · · ··rKiS·ii.wh·a,.·sC:tiota&tic·· · · · · · · · · · ··~ : and COTH have in common: : fHE FIRST ANNUAL STUDENT FILffiFEST~
. 

sponsoted by Scholastic magazine 
Sunday, may 2nd 
7:30Pm ETS Theatte, CCE 
:comE AND SEE GREAT ffiOVI ~ AND VIDEO SH_ORTS IIU 

..................................................................... 
---~--~-~-----­
-~-------~-----­
Thursday, April 29, 1982 -page 14 
Wrestling banquet 

Freshman Baty wins two awards 
By BRIAN REIMER 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame wrestling team held its annual post-season banquet last Tuesday night at "Parisi's" res­taurant. Seven individuals garnered trophies and the 1982-83 team cap­tain was named. 
To the suprise of nobody; 167­pounder Phil Baty was voted by his teammates asJhe "Most Outstanding Freshman". In spite of a mid-season injury that kept him out ofaction for six weeks, Phil managed a 33-11 won-lost mark. The 33 wins eclipsed three-time NCAA qualifier Dave Dis­abato's previous school record of 
31. 
Senior 158-pounder Brian Erard won the award for "Most Takedowns" by setting another Notre Dame record. Erard's total of 129 takedowns was 42 higher than the second place teammate, and broke DiSabato's old record by four. 

Freshman 126-pounder Joe Andreetti claimed the "Most Pins" trophy with six. Joe won 30 of 47 matches in his inittial college wres­tling campaign. 
Senior co-captain Curt Rood was 
named "Most Improved Wrsetler" 
by his teammates. Last season, Rood 
finished with an · 11-17-1 record. 
This year, despite some mid-season 
injuries, he improved his mark to 26­
11, wrestling at 1 SO-pounds. 

A new honor was initiated this 
year, the "F. Patrick O'Conner 
Memorial Award," given to the 
Notre Dame wrestler with the best 
character and personality. Freshman 
134-pounder Don Heintzelman was 
the initial recipient of the award, named for a wrestler from the early 1970•s who recently died in an acci­dent. 
The Notre Dame Monogram Club's trophy for the "Most Valuable Wrestler" went to Phil Baty for his record-breaking year. 
Junior 142-pounder Pete Agos­tino received two honors. The St. Joseph Valley Chapter of the Notre Dame Alumni Association named him the top student-athlete on the team. Pete was also named captain for next season. 
Notre Dame set two important team recordsin the 1981-82 season: most wins ( 1 S) and highest winning percentage (.882). Next year's freshman class will include a few state champions and the 118-to 142-pound weight classes will be very deep. 
Major League scoreboard 
St. Louis 5 Houston 4 
ST. LOUIS (AP) -David Gre<:n's seeing-eye hit through the infield drove in two runs to cap a four-run sixth inning that rallied the St. Louis Cardinals to a S-4 triumph yrsterday over the Houston Astros. 
St. Louis, which had lost three in a row, trailed 3-1 at the start ofthe in· ning against Houston knuckleballer Joe Niekro. Lonnie Smith's grounder up the middle bruised the index fin­ger on Niekro's right hand, however, forcing Dave Smith, 0-2, to take over two batters later. Smith eventually 

absorbed the setback as the Cards 
batted around in the inning. 

Tommy Herr's single off Niekro started the St. Louis rally. After Niekro threw a wild pitch, Keith Hernandez walked. 
Smith took over to face Darrell Porter, walking the Cards' catcher on five pitches and loading the bases. Smith then walked Dane Iorg to force home Herr and also walked Ken Oberkfell to create a 3-3 tie before Green singled through the right side off Dave LaCorte. 
Bob Forsch, 4-0, held the Astros to eight hits in seven innings. He walked six and hit a batter. 
---~----~---------~-----­
'Attention! 
YEARBOOKS have been distributed which 
have names embossed on the front lower 
right-hand cover. These are personal copies which belong to personnel and administrators. 
If you received one of these books, please exchange it immediately at the Student Activities Office in Lafortune! Thank you so much for your cooperation ­
DOME 1982 staff 

__________________________J 
i 
................................,t Do you like to DANCE? : : Do you want to GO OUT : with that specialperson? : Do want to GO CRAZY : before finals? + 
: Do you want to end the yeat t with a BANG? : 

If so, GET READY fot the t 
GO CRAZY DANCE 

f 
Ftiday Aptll30th 9:30-1:00 : 
In the Chautauqua Balltoom .t
* Admission Sf 

The victory snapped a five-t arne See BASEBALL,page H 
••••••••~:n::~~:~:.~:•.n~~:~:...J 
Chi. 6 Cinn. 0 

CHICAGO (AP -Dickie Noles fired a one-hitter, and Steve Hender­son and Jerry Morales each belted two-run triples to lead the Chicago Cubs to a 6-0 victory over the Cin­cinnati Reds. 
Noles, 3-2, struck out seven and walked two in the first complete game of his career. Tom Seaver, 0-3, was the loser. 
Noles didn't allow a Cincinnati baserunner until the fourth when Eddie Milner's line drive fell in front ofHenderson in left field for a single. Milner moved to third on a sacrifice and a deep fly to center, but Bench ended the inning by flying to left. 
Noles opened the Chicago third with a single to left. Bump Wills followed with a single to right, moving Noles to second. Ryne Sandberg's bunt single loaded the bases, and Noles scored on Bill Buckner's broken-bat grounder to second. 
Wills was nabbed in a run-down after Keith Moreland grounded to third. Seaver then walked Leon Dur­ham intentionally before striking out Henderson to end the inning. 
Clev. 6 Seattle 1 

CLEVELAND (AP) -Len Barker and Tom Brennan combined on a four-hitter, and the Cleveland In­dians erupted for six first-inning runs to snap a four-game losing streak, beating the Seattle Mariners 6-1 last night. 
Barker, 3-1, struck out six and walked four, while holding the Mariners to three singles through seven innings. Brennan pitched two scoreless innings in relief. 
The only Seattle run came in the sixth on a walk toJulio Cruz, a single by Manny Castillo and an RBI­groundout by Bruce Bochte. 
Seattle rookie Mike Moore, 1-3, lasted just one-third of an inning as six of the seven hitters he faced scored. 
Alan Bannister led off the Cleveland first with a walk and stole 
second.  After  Toby  ·Harrah  
grounded  out,  Mike  Hargrove  
singled in Bannister.  

Atlanta 7 Pitts. 6 

ATLANTA (AP)-Shortstop Dale, Berra's error on a two-out bouncer by pinch-hitter Bob Watson brought home Bob Horner from third with the winning run in the I Oth mning to give the Atlanta Braves a 7-6 vic­tory over the Pittsburgh Piratu last night. 

Ihe~er========================================= 
~~~~~-~============================T=hu=r=sd=a=y=,A=p=r=il=2=9,=1=9=8=2===pa=g=e=l=5 

24 Month: abbr. 46 Where 25 "It's-Killarney 
...world" gleams 
Wednesday's Solution 
0 L E-1 N A••• l I L Y 0 F T H E V A L l E Y 
E" .... 
ll 'I"E

AMEN. R A R E R Ot¥..M 
DANK.ESTES All
©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved 
4/29/82 
26 Shackle 
or hinder 28 Headed 29 Obnoxious 
kid 30 Citrus fruit 34 Klndof barometer 36 Garden tools 37 The very 
thing 38 Sights 39 Feline 40 Comforted 42 Foot: suff. 43 Summon by 
calling o.fi..,MArtE, JU'->T ~AID ~M A lltANK­
YOII ~E... 
47 -fan 13 Snoozed tutte 15 Annoying 
48 Each dish insect separately 21 Shielded priced like a tank 
50 Cavalryman 23 Nail 52 Man, as a 25 Jai­good match 26 Dallier 53 Having left 27 Lovegod no will 29 Philippine 
55 In-between knife traffic 31 Essential light 32 Arena 
56 Discarded fighter metal 33 East: Sp. 
57 An Allen 35 Pared off 58 Wild duck 36 Twixt 59 Old string twelve and 
Instrument twenty 38 Branch of 
DOWN knowledge 1 Corrals 41 Craftsman 2 Salary 42 Marginal 
3 Cooling note, in 
drinks the Bible 4 Freezing 43 Custard 5 Use support apple 6 Insect 44 San Antonio 
7 Vessel on landmark runners 45 Super 8 Turn Hollywood coupons in actress 9 Performance 47 Point of figure crescent 10 Cabbage moon 
salad 49 Light and 11 Do penance fluffy 12 Accumu· 50 Make whole 
lated, as 51 Descartes a big bill 54 -·la·la 

Campus 
•8:30 
a.m. -Meeting, 'Alumni Board, CCE 

•2:30 
p.m. -Baseball, NO vs. Valparaiso, jake Kline Field 

•2:30 
p.m. -Tennis, NO Men vs. DePaul, Courtney Courts 

•4 
p.m. -NROTC Awards, Library Auditorium 

•4 
p.m. -Radiation Lab. Seminar, "Aspects of Photochemical Cycles in View of Energy Storage" Dr. Thomas Ebbesen, NO, Conference Theatre Rad. Lab. 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture, Bicentennial of the birth of Don Andres Bello, Humberto Fernandez-Moran, Univ. of Chgo., Faculty Lounge Memorial Library, Sponsored by Dept. of Modern and Classical Lan· guages 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Genetic Regulation in Adaptive Evolution", Dr. Francisco Ayala, Galvin Life Sciences Aud., Sponsored by Dept. of Biology 

•4:30 
p.m. -Math CoUoquium, "Exponential Sums and Number Fields", Prof. Raghavan Norasimhan, Univ. ofChgo., 226 CCMB 

•7 
p.m., 9: I 5 p.m., and II:15 p.m. -Fllm, "The Champ" Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Women's fast pitch softball, S 1.00 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, Construction Engineer, Mr. Holden, Room 356 Fitzpatrick, Sponsored by ASCE 

•7:30 
p.m. -Forum, For. the candidates of Portage Township Trustee, 1st United Methodist Church 

•8 
p.m.-Concert, "The New Music Ensemble", Roger Briggs Conductor, Little Theatre, Sponsored by SMC Department of Music, Students S1.00, Others S2.50 

•8 
p.m. -Play, "The Card Index", O'Laughlin Auditorium, S2. 50 for students, fuculty, and staff; all others 

•8:15 
p.m. -Student Recital, Ms. Susan Laing, Library Auditorium 

•8:15 
p.m. -University Artists Concert, Ms. Christine Lindsay, Annen burg Auditorium 


T.V. Tonight 
7:00p.m.  16  Fame:  
22  Magnum P.l.  
28  No Soap Radio  
H  Channel 34 Auction  "lip, Up, and  
Away"  
7:30p.m.  28  Mork and Mindy  
8:00p.m.  16  The 17th Annual  Academy of  
Country Music Awards  
22  Simon and Simon  
28  Barney Miller  
8:30p.m.  28  Taxi  
9:00p.m.  22  Knots Landing  
28  20/20  
10:00p.m.  16  Nc:wsCc:ntc:r 16  
22  "l.z Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
!0:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Quincy/McMillan and  Wife:  
28  ABC News Nightline  
11:00p.m.  28  Vegas  
11:30p.m.  16  Late Night with David Letterman  

.. 
~********************************** 
: Premlet: Plays 1982-83 : Starring: The Student Players ~ Directed &Produced by: ? (why notyoul?) 
.. 
:Applications for producer and for dlrectot of . ­:plays are being accepted. Pick up your ~ :application In the Student Union Offices, ~ 
$2nd floor Lafortune. deadline 4/30 · 
..
.. 
:•*************A star could be born***** 
~**********************************·~--------~ 
HEAD 'EM UP AND MOVE 'EM OUT TO SENIOR BAR 
Tonight's Special: Wine Spritzers and Wine Coolers! 
open 10-2 


S_~orts 
Thursday, April29, 1982-page 16 
with 10 straight points to take a 90­84 lead with 5:16 remaining in the game. The Celtics led by from one to five points but couldn't shake the Bullets in the second game of the best-of­seven Eastern Conference semifinal series. The Celtics went ahead 101-98 with 1 :06 to play when Nate Ar­chibald made one of two free throws. Greg Ballard's two foul shots with  PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Andrew Toney scored 31 points and Julius Erving had 24 points and seven as­sists as the Philadelphia 76ers beat the Milwaukee Bucks 120-108 last night to take a 2-0 lead in their Na­tional Basketball Association Eastern Conference semifinal playoff. The best-of-seven series now moves to Milwaukee for the third and fourth games Saturday and Sun­day afternoon. It would return here Wednesday if a fifth game is neces- INSIDE: Wrestling --page 14 Awardresults --page 11  the only two hits irr the opening 7-0 loss by the Irish, and Terri Bogucki had the lone run batted in for the afternoon in the 12-1 second-game defeat. The squad split two games on Saturday as it first lost by a 7-1 count to Anderson College before defeating Bethel Col­lege in the second game 14-2. Harris was 3-for-3 in the loss to Ander-' son. Alig had the only RBI. Hritz earned the decision in the Bethel game. Strenzelled the hitting in that game with a 3-for-4 effort. Ryan, Harris and Callahan, meanwhile, had two hits apiece in four trips to the plate. CREW-In last weekend's five-team rowing regatta held at Misha­waka, the women's varsity and novice squads dominated the meet. See CLUB, page 11  

Blatt, Paxson--1981-82 Athletes ofthe Year 
By MICHAEL ORTMAN The two will be presented with captain of next year's team, was per­distancing decathlete Paul Doyle. 
The voters were asked to consider 
SportsEditorEmeritus the Edward W. Krause Awards as the haps the only saving grace in an Doyle shattered a 50-year-old 
not only an individual's perfor­
female and male athletes ofthe year, otherwise dismal basketball season. school record in the decathlon ear­
mance, but his or her value to their Notre Dame swimmer Jeanine respectively, at halftime of Satur­A first team all-America choice ofthe lier this spring with 7,774 points 
team. In other words, if a nominee Blatt and Irish basketball star John day's Blue-Gold game in the nation's coaches, Paxson led the which currently ranks second best 
was removed from the team roster, Paxson will be honored as The Ob­stadium. Irish in scoring, assists, minutes in the nation. He also own school be­
what would be the effect on team ef­server's 1981-82 Athletes of the Blatt, a three-time Division III All­played, and was near the top in al­sts in the pole vault (both indoor 
fectiveness? Other factors, such has Year. The two finished well ahead of America distance freesrylist, com­most every other category. His and outdoor). 
dedication and involvement in non­the field in voting yesterday by a peted on Notre Dame's men's team teammates unanimously voted him Paxson and Doyle were the only 
sports activities, were:: considered. panel of 20 Observer sports writers. her first two years since there was the 10-1 7 season's MVP. ones whose names appeared on all no separate varsity team for women. Both winners finished well ahead 20 ballots. Doyle tlnished with 198 But after her sophomore season, she of their competition. Blatt's name points and six t1rst place votes. opted to sacrifice her chance at a appeared on all 20 ballots. She col­Hockey co-captain Dave Poulin was varsity monogram and compete on lected 238 points out of a possible next with 149 and one first place the non-varsity club. 400 including nine first place votes. vote. "She gave them a much-needed Saint Mary's senior Mary Beth A first team All-CCHA selection, shot in the arm," said Dennis Stark, Hosinski, a standout in both vol­Poulin was one of l 0 t1nalists for this coach of both the Notre Dame men leyball and softball, finished second past season's Hobie Bakt::r Award, and women. "It's because of people for the second year in a row with college hockey's Heisman Trophy. like Jeanine that we now have var­210 points and tlve lirst place votes. Poulin rebounded after a life­sity swimming for women." Notre Dame freshman Mary Beth threatening bout with meningitis his Blatt was voted MVP by her Schueth, the only other woman to sophomore year to become the all­teammates after their first varsity appear on all 20 ballots, finishcd time leading scorer among Irish cen­season and her third successful trip third with 169 points and three first ters. to the nationals. The Lewis Hall Rcsi­place votes. Schueth Jed Mary Dis­This is the second year the awards dent Assistant also was the team's tanislao's much-improved basket­have been presented. Last year recipient of the St. Joseph Valley ball team in scoring, rebounding, Notre Dame tennis player Mary Club Scholar-Athlete Award this minutes played and blocked shots. Legeay and swimmer Mike spring. Paxson garnered 227 points and Shepardson, both juniors, took the Paxson, who was recently elected



John Paxson 
NBAplayoffs 

Rookie'sbomb defeats Celtics 
40 seconds to go cut the lead to one sary.
Bullets over Celtics before Robert Parish made one of The 76ers took the lead at 5-3 on a 
two free throws for Boston with 33 12-foot bank shot by Darryl Dawkins 
BOSTON (AP) -Rookie Frank seconds left. and led the rest ofthe game. Johnson's three-point field goal with But with 10 seconds remaining, Brian Winters topped the Bucks 
three seconds left climaxed a 26-Parish was called for an offensive with 21 points, while Marques 
point performance and gave the foul. The Bullets worked the ball to Johnson contributed 19 and Mickey 
Washington Bullets a 103-102 vic­Johnson, who launched a .30-footer Johnson 18 for the Central Division 
tory over Boston last night, evening that swished through for the win­champion Bucks. 
their National Basketball Associa­ning points. Philadelphia led four times by . 10 
tion playoffseriesat one game each. M.L. Carr missed a desperation points in the first quarter, the last 
Johnson scored 24 ofhis points in jumper at the buzzer for Boston. time at 23-13. Dawkins and Toney 
the second half, including 13 in the each scored eight in the period as 
final period in which the Celtics led the 76ers led 31-22 at the end of the 
most ofthe way. Sixers win again opening period. 
Boston wiped out an 84-80 deficit also lost a close match by a 6-4 count. Tom Falon had the score for the Irish, who were led by outstanding individual performances from fullback Steve Schneider and scrumJeffBranigan. Despite a fine individual performance by serum-captain "Big Bob" Kaulbach, the 'C' squad also suffered a close defeat, 4-0. 

WOMEN'S SOFTBALL -The softball club closed out its regular season last Sunday with a 21-16, 16-0 doubleheader sweep over Grace College. The wins give the team an 8-9 record as it heads into tomorrow's seven-team state tournament. The meet bcgins at 9 a.m. at Saint Mary's. In Monday's opener with Grace, Karen Alig won the 
1 metry optometry award for good eyes as she reached base all six times at bat on six walks. Mary Arn and Alyson Hritz went 3-for-6 and 2-for-4, respectively, to pace the hitting, while Lisa Erhardt and Val Harris each had two RBis to lead the run production for the squad. Harris and Linda Kelleher combined on the shutout in thc second game. Jill Strenzel was 2-for-2, and Alig (who had four RBis ), Chris Callahan, Erhardt, and Harris each had two hits in three at bats. Har­ris' double and triple in the second game raised her final regular season average to a scorching .51 7. Other top averages include Strenzel's .364, Arn's .357 and Alig's .344. Alig also has a .638 on-base percentage. The team has an overall batting average of.305. The bats were not booming on Sunday, though, against a varsity and scholarship team from Lake Michigan College. Molly Ryan had 

... 
Milwaukee Bucks' Sidney Moncrief drives to Philadelphia last night. Toney scored31 points in 
the basket against Philadelphia 76ers' Andrew the second game ofthe Eastern Conference semi­
Toney during the Sixers' 120-108 victory in final series. ( APPhoto) 
Ruggers finish 
season at Stepan 

Louie Somogyi 

Club Corner 
RUGBY -After coming off an impressive performance last Satur­day at Bowling Green, the Irish squad will close out its season this Saturday against Michigan State. The matches will begin at 1 p.m. on the fields behind Stepan Center. The 'A' match especially will have two significant events. First, it will decide whether the team will finish with a winning or losing season by virtue ofthe club's current 2-2 mark. Second, it will mark the final game for 12 seniors who, as one club member put it, "Have been through the good and very difficult times of the club over the years." The seniors include Dan Pearl, Glen Kurtchief, Nick Colarelli, Mark Deflin, Scot O'Brien,John Price, Mike McMahon, Joe Timmins, Jay Traverse, Tom Mazzeli, and Gerry O'Regan. 
The 'A' club dropped to the .500 mark despite a top performance against the undefeated (7-0) Mid-American Conference champions from Bowling Green. The team lost a 19-15 decision to the Ohio reoresentative in the regionals despite an early 6-0 lead. Kurtchief a;d Brian Moynihan each tallied a four-point score for the Irish, while Deflin kicked home both two-point conversions as well as a three-point penalty kick. Dan Pearl had a fine game as the running back as did club president Sean Sullivan for the serums. The 'B' squad 


