-----~----~-~---~~~ 
.Bookstore -Page 16 
j
' ' 

Secretary Regan predicts rampant unemployment 
WASHINGTON (AP)-lJn-submitted. employment figures to be relca.~ed Congress ha.~ by and large today could show the nation's job­rejected the administration's hudgct less rate "just slightly higher" than 9 and economic forcca.~ts and called percent, Trea.o;ury Secretary Donald on the administration to com-Regan said la.~t night. promise. 
Ifso, that would he the highest un­employment rate recorded since '...the highest World War II and the second­
unemployment rate
highest since the Bureau of Labor Statistics began compiling the recorded since figures more than 40 years ago. 
World War II... ' 
The unemployment rate for February was 8.8 percent, tying the Congressional sources said record set in December of last year. Thursday night that administration The rate dipped in january to H. 5 negotiators were discussing with 
percent. congressional counterparts from 
Regan, interviewed on puhlic both parties a proposed oil import television's "MacNeil-Lehrer fee and cuthack in scheduled Social Report," said he was "positive Security increases to close a they're (the unemployment figures) projected budget deficit estimated
After the carnival yesterday on the south 
ot going to hrcak I 0 (percent)." by the administration at about S96. 5 
quad, this boy was lucky enough to talk to a 
An increa.~e in unemployment billion and by the Congressional would not mean that the administra· Budget Office at S 121 hillion. tion's foreca.o;t of an economic The BLS figures show the average
ND class of '82 recovery this summer was wrong, unemployment rate for 1940, the Regan said, because hiring does not first year the figures were gathered, pick until business is firmly on the at 14.6 percent. The rate fl'll to 9.9
Provost names two valedictorians 
upswing. percent in 1941 under the influence The secretary said the administra­of government defense production
By CAROL CAMP from Oshkosh, Wisconsin, and Bol­
that, in the tenth year of coeduca­tion had no criticism of Sen. Pete orders and has never hcen that high StaffReporter las is a psychology major and a Louis­
tion at Notre Dame, our co­Domenici, R-N.M., chairman of the since. Some estimates say that the ville, Ohio native. An interesting 
valedictorians arc women, and that Senate Budget Committee, for start­rate wa.o; 25 percent in the worst of Accordin!( to Assistant Provost, note is that Bollas' twin sister Ber­half ofour highest· ranking students ing to work up a hudgct indepen­the Great Depression in the early Sr.John Miriam jones, the 1982 nadette is the second highest are women as well." 
dently of what President Reagan 1930s. ~o:raduating chL~s will have two ranking person in the College ofArts women valedictorians. and Letters. Rt·n·ntly, jackie Bolla.~ and Ann In addition to their valedictory Weber were named co­duties, Weber and Bollas, as well as vakdictorians of this year's senior the three top ranking individuals in 

City approves shoot to killpolicy

class hy the provost's office. Instead each ofthe University's four colleges ofchoosing between the two a.'> had will serve as flag hearers during the been done in previous years, jones baccalaureate mass. Each year, the TERRE Haute, Ind. (AP) · In the all drop in crime of 12.6 percent, want to run for office in Chicago,
ha., decided that Bollas and Weber graduating seniors present the Uni­will he reco~o:nized as co­versity with a flag which is blessed year since Terre Haute Police Chief with a 49 percent decrea.o;e in rob­you have my vote and I'm sure many valcdktorians. Due to the fact that during the Mass and is then flown Gerald Loudermilk adopted a "shoot beries and an I H percent drop in others." 
there arc two a.'pccts to the tradi­each day of the following academic to kill" policy, the city's crime rate burglaries. But five people were Chalos says the shoot-to-kill has dropped more than 12 percent murdered in 1981, up from four the policy is not solely responsible for
tional valedictory address, each of year. This year, six men and six tht• girls will speak at commence­women will parti· ccipate in the -without a single shot fired hy a previous year. the drop in crime. 
police officer. Speaking from his city hall office, "I'm not going to give all the
ment. ceremony as flag-bearers. where a miniature electric chair sits credit to our deadly force policy,"
Both valedictorians have Commenting upon the fact that "We hope we never have to use on his desk, Loudermilk said the the mayor said. "We're doing goodcompiled a perfect 4.0 average this year's graduating class has two our guns, but if there's ever a need policy had two purposes: to threaten police investigative work. We wantduring their four years at Notre women valedictorians, jones ob­we want the criminals to know we criminals and to give the 125· them doing the hasics the best to ap·Dame. Weber is a chemistry major served : "I think it's very interesting won't hesitate," Loudermilk said in a 

Pauley to present history of 'Today' show 
By MARGARET FOSMOE 
.'ialnt Mary's News Editor 
NBC News ''Today" correspondent jane Pauley will discuss the history of the morning news show, "A 'Today' Retrospective: From). Fred Muggs to Me," tonight at 8 p.m. in the Center for Continuing Education. 
Pauley will speak as the fourth lecturer in Notre Dame's "Distinguished American Women" series, celebrating a decade of co-education at the University. 
A native ofIndianapolis, Pauley is a graduate ofIndiana University. She worked in state politics before breaking into television as a reporter for WISH-TV in Indianapolis. In 1975 she became a co­anchor with WMAQ-TV in Chicago, and a year later joined the NBC "Today" staff in New York. 
Pauley currently co-anchors the morning news show with Brian Gumble and Chris Wallace. 
Sr. john Miriam jones, coordinator of the "Distinguished American Women" lecture series said the eight women speakers are "a fitting way to celebrate the I0-year anniversary ofco-education at Notre Dame. I hope some of the more widely-known women speak­ing in the series will help draw national publicity to the success of co-education at the University." 
'The next speaker in the series will be Barbara Bush, wife of Vice­President George Bush. Mrs. Bush will speak April 6 at 4 p.m. in the Annenhurg Auditorium of the Snite Museum ofArt. 
recent interview. member force more confidence to prehend a.~ many criminals as they use their guns. can." 


"To me it just clarified things," Still, many local citizens like the said Sgt. Larry Akers, a 15-year policy. veteran with the department. One Terre Haute resident, Gretta "Before, you had a doubt whether Clendenen, wrote to Loudermilk,
•"s::•llF:FOCUS 
you had a right to use deadly force or "The statement you made to the whether you didn't ... policemen about using guns if 
In the 1950s, Terre Haute was "Since this policy went into effect, necessary should be made hy every known as Sin City, a horder town no officer has fired a gun. You could police chiefin the United States." where a tangle of truck routes pack I 0 guns, but if the criminal She added that her 8-year-old brought a large transient population knows you're not going to use them, daughter wa.o; learning to shoot and easy access to vice. that's nothing," Akers said. "that guns are to be respected, not 
In 1979, comedian Steve Martin "There is no uniqueness about played with." 
dubhed it "the most nowhere place any of it," said Mayor Pete Chalos. "Local response ha.~ been general­in America," a place where fast food "Every police officer across the ly positive because he draws the franchises were considered haute country has the same policy. I think line," said Ed Grosskopf, a professor cuisine and even the mayor drove a we just verbalized ours." of criminology at Indiana State Uni­used car. In New York, for example, Police versity who served as a Chicago 
Last year this city of80,000 gained Commissioner Robert McGuire said policeman for I 0 years. another image, cultivated by last year that a "shoot first and shoor "It's an emotional issue. The idea Loudermilk and reinforced by to kill" order for policemen who is that you don't train people to police: a tough town for criminals. believed their lives were in danger shoot, just to wing people. The ques­
Loudermilk is quick to point out has been in effect since 1972. tion is, is there a well-defined policy that the policy merely underlines In­Patrolman Harold Seifers, who has on the use of deadly force?" Gros­diana law, which provides for police been with the Terre Haute force for skopf said. use ofdeadly force. six years, says the policy is especially Not everyone agrees with the 
"Indiana state law says a police of· useful during robberies in progress. policy, however. ficer can shoot a fleeing felon," he "Criminals don't like it, but normal "I sympatizc with the situation said. "We didn't want them to won­people do," Seifers said. and remedies are not ca.o;y," said Syl­der if the department would hack Loudermilk has a cabinet full of via Brehm, a microbiologist who them up if they did it." letters from around the country who serves on the. board of the West 
Terre Haute received national like the policy. Central indiana Civil Liberties Uiion. media attention after the policy "I'll bet if we had that here, we But she opposes the policy. "I don't went into effect in january 1981. wouldn't have one-tenth of the think the police should be judge and Department crime statistics for the crime we do now," wrote Bob Miel­jury all in one, all on the spur of the first year of the policy show an over-lowski of Chicago. "Also if you ever moment." 


Friday, April2, 1982-page 2

NewsBrieb 
By The Observer and The AssociatedPres 
PRESIDENT REAGAN UNDERWENT HOSPITAL TESTS 
yesterday for a previous inflammation of the urinary tract but told reporters afterwards, "Everything is perfectly normal." he said no medication was prescribed for him and that he did not expect to have to return to the hospital. Reagan said he experienced discomfort in his urinary tract for several days after a "fly around the country trip" a few weeks ago. Deputy WhiteHouse press secretary Larry Speaks said when the pain began it was presumed to be an inflammation and was treated with antibiotics. The discomfort dissappeared within a few days, but it was felt the matter should be checked out just in case something was wrong, Speakes said.--AP 
JOHN CHANCELLOR, who resisted the tide toward celebrity journalism with a calm, thoughtful style, steps down from the "NBC Nightly News" after tonight's pros.ram with none of the fanfare that accompanied a similar change at CBS a year ago. In fact, Chancellor is not leavin~ "nightly News." He will provide commentary and analysts three or four times a week, and NBC has taken pains to include him in print and broadcast ads promoting the transition to an anchor team of Torn Brokaw and Roger Mudd. ''I regard it as the best job in jounalisrn, certainly . television journalism,'' Chancellor said yesterday. ''I get to travel, choose the stories I want to do, and control my material, within the normid standards of good journalism.'' Mudd was at least indirectlyinvolved in the hoopla that surrounded Dan Rather's appointment as successor to Walter Cronkite as "CBS Evening News anchorman last March. Mudd, a veteran Washington correspondent once considered a candidate to replace Cronkite, jumped to NBC in the wake of the switch at CBS.--AP 
GASOUNE PRICES HAVE DROPPED under $1 in some 
places in the Chicago area for the ftrst time since late 1979, 
a Chicago Motor Club survey showed Thursday. Durin~ the 
last two weeks, 74 percent of stations surveyed in Ilhnois 
and northern Indiana lowered some or all of their pump 
prices, according to the survey. Since the start of 1982, 
average full-serve pumps have fallen nearly 13 cents. In the 
northern Illinois suberb of Lincolnwood, station owner 
Mickey Cohen lowered his regular gasoline to 99.9 cents per 
gallon. ''I just got tired of playing with the prices,'' said 
Cohen, whose sales have been cut in half in the last year. "I 
just decided if you do it, do it right. I think we're going to 
see 80 to 90 cents per gallon, and I think the price will stay 
down." Average full-serve prices have dropped 9 cents a 
gallon, and average full-serve pumps have fallen nearly 13 
cents. 

Average full-serve regular in the Chicago area was 1.32, 
down 2.6 cents in the last two weeks and 14.9 cents lower 
than a year ago, according to the motor club survey.--AP 
A NON-EXIST ANT CUMBER scaledthe walls of a 38-story 
building under construction today as a radio station 
broadcast its version of an April Fool's joke. "We 
disclaimed it adequately,'' said Jed Duval, program director 
at WIBC radio. ''People only hear what they want to hear.'' 
The April Fool's tale began at 6:30a.m. when an announcer 
describing traffic conditions said he spotted someone on the 
American United Life Insurance building in Downtown 
Indianapolis. The telephone switchboards lit up as 
announcers unfolded the tale of a daring man using suction 
cups to work his way skyward. At least two television 
stations dispatched cameras to the scene. Aides said Mayor 
William Hudnut was initially taken in by the report, drove 
around the building, and when he realized no one was 
there, telephonedWIBC to join in the joke.--AP 
A POUSH PLANE WAS HI] ACKED from Krakow to Vienna yesterday, touching treetops along the way to evade Communist radar, police said. The hijackers were thought to be soldiers and the plane a military aircraft. Witnesses said the plane, traveling at an altitude of only 200 feet, flew along the Danube and the Danube Canal before touching down at the Vienna atrport. "In order to evade radar detection in Czechoslovakia the plane was flying so low it touched tree tops. Parts of branches can still be seen on the damaged wings," a pohce spokesman said. "It appears that the plane was hijacked by two Polish soldiers, but we have initial language problems and are looking for an inter­preter." Ten passengers from two families were said to have been aboard the plane, reportedly a Soviet-made 
Antonov-2 military aircraft.--AP 
VERY WINDY TODAY with occasional rain and a few 
thunderstorms. Mild with a high in the low to mid 60s. 
Occasional thunderstorms tonight: Thunderstorms ending 
tomorrow and clearing. Continued very windy. Low toni~ht 
in th~ mi? to upper 40s t~em turning colder tomorrow wtth 
the htgh m the low to mtd 50s. The chances of rain are 80 
percent both today and tonight.--AP 
A lesson well-learned 
It seems rather sttange how people can always find something good in the worst of situations. The recent flooding disaster in Fort· Wayne, Indiana is a good example of such a phenomenon. Though flood waters did cause a great deal of damage to several sections of the city, the citizens of Fort Wayne taught a big lesson about people to the rest of the country. 
Fort Wayne is a typical, medium-sized midwestern city located about eighty-five miles southeast of Notre Dame. Three rivers run throughout the city, meeting just north of the downtown area. In the spring, the rivers can be counted on to produce some flooding, but never to the point of last month's high water levels. 

This spring, the rivers which give Fort Wayne a great deal of its character, turned on the city with devastating effects. Rain, combined with . heavy amounts of melting snow brought an early spring to Fort Wayne and caused the rivers to flood virtually overnight. The rivers continued to swell for several days, forcing the eventual evacuation of 10,000 people from their homes, and at one point, threatening to divide the city into six isolated sections. 
Thousands of people heeded the calls for volunteers, donating many long, exhausting hours piling sandbags along the swollen rivers. At one point so many volunteers showed up to 1 help that some of them had to be turned away because there was not enough work to be done. By the time the volunteers were no longer needed, more than one million sandbags had been filled and placed along the riverbanks. 
The volunteers ranged in age from the very old to the very young. One four year old girl spent an afternoon holding sandbags open while · her mother filled each of them with fifty pounds : of sand. thousands of high schoold students· 
Thousands of high school students were released from school for two days so they could donate their time to fighting the high water. by the time the waters had begun to recede, the high school students turned out to be the real heroes in Fort Wayne's struggle to save itself from disaster. 
Some people who could not volunteer by working with sandbags, helped by serving as staff workers at emergency dtsaster shelters set up by the Red Cross or the Salvation Army for vtctims who had been evacuated from their homes. Other people contributed to the disaster aid plan by donatmg food, bedding, or clothing to flood victims, by opening up their homes to evacuees, or by caring for exhausted volunteers. some businesses assisted in the effort by matching the donations coming in from the private sector. Other businesses donated materials or machinery to assist workers in the flood-stricken areas, or offered services to flood victims at greatly reduced prices. One car deale even offered a section of his lot to a competitor who had been forced to leave his building due to high water. 
"To err is human, and so is 
blaming it on the corn-. 
puter.'' 
However, this time it really is the computer's fault. Since I don't have room for all the names, here are a few: 
Deirdre, Tari, Dave, Dave, Joe, Mike, and jeb. Sorry to everyone else, I'll try to get you next time. 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer 1s published by the studer1ts of Notre Dame and Satnt Marys Col· lege Subscnptlons may be purchased for $25 per year ($ 1 5 per semester) by ' wnttng The Observer P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame Indiana 46556 


All of the kindness exhibited by the people of Fort Wayne was given voluntarily and wtthout complaint. Nothing was said as worker's bodies began to ache after unloading ftfty pound sandbags for stretches that went as long as thirty-seven hours straight. Even motorists, one of Fort Wayne's worst complainers, remained abnormally calm as their cars slowly creeped through what remained of Fort Wayne's street system. 
This revelation of character during times of trouble served as a good lesson to people across the country. As national news focused its attention on Fort Wayne's struggle to stay dry, millions ofpeople watched total strangers reach their physical limits while helping each other. Din a time when it.seerns that few people can be relied upon to look out for their neighbors, the people of Fort Wayne proved that most people still hold a deep feeling of care not only for their neighbors, but for everyone around them. 
During the disaster, thousands of people donated long stretches of time, often at a furious pace, to save the homes of people they didn't even know, or perhaps even feared. The volunteers came from all walks of life, all occupations, or no occupation at all. People who spent a great deal of ume and energy helping others may have been the people accused of being cold and uncaring under normal circum­stances. 
Virtually every person in the city made some kind of donation during the flood, either through time, goods, or money. It made no difference that most of the people who made doantions probably did not know the people they were helping out. Donations of money to a local radio station's disaster releif fund came from as far away as Boston and Ontario, a sure sign that Fort Wayne residents are not the only ones who still care about people. 
Though Fort Wayne serves as a good example ofhoe much people really do care, it is just an example. The lesson learned from the Fort Wayne· flooding has nothing to do with the flood itself. The lesson reaches much farther than the still-wet disaster area, or even the city limits. As people watched Fort Wayne's struggle, they learned not only that the people of Fort Wayne still care about each other, but that all people still care about each other. Though it took a disaster to prove it, it's nice to know that people still care. 
Observer notes._______, 
Observer Correction 
Yesterday's Obseroer stated that the ISO's "Evening of Cultural Entertainment" would be Monday evening. The show will be Sunday evening at 7:30 p.rn: in Wash· ington HalL We apologize for the error. 

The r~tre L!ome Sa1nt 1/\arys uonce Theatre presents 
OuR 
GSPRING 
ONCERT 
W1th guest musiCians The Brody Stalker Stnng D.JO Ongml Score by Roger Bnggs APRIL2 3ot8pm APRIL4ot230pm MAY1314ot8pm Olaughl1n Audtfonum 
Open1ng n1ght patrons will rece1ve one compltrnenlory 11cket for each regularly purchased 11cket 
For 1nformol1on coll284-4176 
The Observer Friday, April 2, 1982 -page 3 ~ 
Social Concerns to get old WNDU building 

By Vic Sciulli 
Night News Editor 
It was formally announced yesterday that the present WNDU building will become the Center for Social Concerns after it is evacuated by its present occupants. 
The decision is the culmination of a proposal which began in 1979 when a group of students, faculty, and staff made presentations concerning the use of WNDU to University President Fr. Hesburgh and the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees. 
The planning process continued through discussions with Fr. Van Wolvlear and Thomas Mason, Vice-President of Student Affairs while studies concerning the use of the building were developed. Fr. David Tyson, Executive Assistant to Fr. Hesburgh, interviewing the persons related to the proposal early in January. 
The new center will be under the control of the Center of Pastoral and social Ministry. The current Vounteer Services Office and the Center For Experiential Learning will be merged in the Center. 
Fr. Tyson believes the new building ''will provide a high degree of visibility of Notre Dame's concern for social justice and will be unique in a higher education Catholic University." The center will also provide a central location which will allow for increased communcation between other concern groups, both on and off campus. 
Organizers of the center have as a goal · 'the implementation of the social/learning and social awareness goals of the Center through the integration of competent academic ex)?ertise in the classroom w1th a reflective and compassionate concern for the personal and societal needs of humankind.'' 
This goal could be accomplished through ideas like audio I visual resource center which could allow for presentations in large scale multipurpose room. Conference and committee rooms would add to the working and teaching space. 
One special feature of the new center will be a large lecture room which can accomodate 150 people. The room could also provide valuable class room space in its off hours. 
Tyson explained that University alumni have taken a great interest in the building and have for a long time considered it a priority for the Univer~ity. The new center could provide a meeting place for the social concern coordinators of alumni clubs to enhance the continuing education of alumni in the area of social concern. 
Tyson strongly suspects that no money will come out of the University's operating budget to pay for renovation expenses. donations from alumni and other sources will most likely fund the project. 
Msgr. John Egan, Director of the Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry will decide what will happen to the space left by the former offices of Volunteer Services and the Center for Experiential Learning. 

jackie Ballas and Ann Weber were both fact. See story on page 1. [Photo by Jill 
named valedictorians of this year's OngerJgraduating class, and seem proud of the 
Ireland film shown 
"The Patriot Game," a 93 minute documentary film on the violence in Northern Ireland, will be shown (Tuesday ) April 13 at 7:15 p.m. in 
the  University  of  Notre  Dame's  
Hayes-Healy auditorium.  
O'Neill and  Hickey will  answer  

questions between reels of the film and after the presentation, which is sponsored by Notre Dame's Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry. Ad­misson is free and open to the public. 
Three die in California avalanche 
SQUAW Valley, Calif. (AP) 
Rescue workers on skis searched 
snow drifts and debris at a ski resort 
yesterday for up to seven people 
reported missing after two 
avalanches that killed three people. 
Four people were rescued after 12 feet of new snow triggered the avalanches Wednesday. One of thost· rescued, John Riley, 74, said avalanches "had come down many times in the past, but not as had as this." 
After early morning dynamitt> 
blasts shook down loose snow that 
could cause more avalanches, 75 
rescuers headed for the Alpine 
Meadows ski resort aboard snow 
tractors. 
They were forced off the slopes Wednesday night by blizzard condi­tions and the threat of more avalanches, but skies were clear and sunny yesterday morning. Lifts were running at nearby ski resorts, and Squaw Valley USA, site of the 1960 Winter Olympics, prepared for a 
weekend ski championship. 
The Alpine Meadows resort, about three miles south of Squaw Valley at 7,000 feet in the Sierra, was closed hy heavy snow Wednesday. nut up to 1.~ employees. and possib­ly some vacationers, were there wht·n disaster struck shortly after 4 p.m., officials said. 
Ont· hissing wall of snow shot down a forested hillside, leveling a .20-foot-wide swath of trees and burying the parking lot. 
The other slide, IS to 20-feet high on its edge, slammed into a two­story A-frame ski patrol building, pushing it into the main lodge. The A-frame splintered and collapsed, and one wall of the 70,000-square­foot wood and glass lodge was smashed. 
"It was just total devastation at the bottom of the hill," said Tom Ander­son, a member of Wednesday's rescue team. "Snow cats turned upside down, building blown apart. It was just a mess." 
Snow cats are large tractors used to groom slopes. A minor avalanche blocked 

California 89, forcing the first wave of rescuers on skis and dogsleds to make a long detour to reach the resort. 
Slides and snowdrifts blocked 
mountain passes throughout the 
Lake Tahoe basn, trapping 
thousands of motorists, engulfing 
two homes near the Squaw Valley ski 
resort and prompted evacuations 
from 100 mountain cabins endan­
gered by potential avalanches. Five 
people were rescued from buried 
homes. 
()ff-(etlll()U§ (lu() ~~~~~~ 


.----------------------------------------------,
Applications are now available for the Class of '83 
Senior Formal Chairpersons in the student Activities Office in La Fortune. Deadline for returning the applications 
is Tusday April 6 at 5:00. Questions? call Mark Mai at 1183. 


NEEDS PHOTOGRAPHERS! 
This is a paid position with many fringe benefits. Darkroom experience a must. Bring resume and samples of your work to IheJ:lbserver Office 
(3rd floor LaFortune) TODAY! 

Friday, April 2, 1982 -page 4 
Very near future 


Social Security to cut benefits 
The Observer 


''I'm a Famous lite Beer Drinker" T-Shirt ($5.00 each] _________Small 
(Quantity) 

____ Medium 
lite Beer Dictionary T-Shirt ($5.00 each] 
_Small _____Large (Quantity) ____Medium __ , ___X-Large 

J!i1ir 
A" ~ 
\~b 
rJ§J·ll· 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Social has opposed congressional calls to Security will be unable to paw reduce the size of that increase. retirees' and survivors' benefits on Despite benefit cuts enacted in time starting in July 1983 unless 1981, "the short-range financial Congress takes corrective action "\,11 status is significantly worse than was the very near future," the system's estimated last year,"the trustees said trustees said Thursday. in their annual report to Congress. 
But the trustees, all members of "A series of economic downturns President Reagan's Cabinet, made . more severe than anticipated have no recommendations for bolstering led to the current financial crisis," the system's sagging Old Age and trustees treasury Secretary 
Survivors Insurance Trust Fund. Donald T. Regan, Labor Secretary They said they are waiting for Raymond]. Donovan and Health and Reagan's National Commission on Human Services Secretary Richard S. Social Security Reform to complete Schweiker. a report due by the end of this year. Congress passed a stopgap 
The trustees forecast that measure last year to tide the old age 
beneficiaries will get a 7.6 percent fund over through 1982 by allowing 
benefit increase this July based on it to borrow from the healthier dis­
the consumer price index. Reagan ability reserve. Reagan set up the 
commission after withdrawing his 
own controversial proposals for cut­
ting early retirement and other 
benefits. 
For the seventh straight year, the combined old age and disability trust funds paid out more than they took in calendar 1981, the trustees said. Those two funds dropped by Sl.9 billion to S24.5 billion ­
enough to pay benefits for only two months -at the end of last year, they said. 
But the hospital, or Medicare, trust fund rose by S5 billion. Conse­quently, the three combined funds finished the year in the black, taking in 1il78.2 billion in payroll taxes while paying out 51 75.1 billion in benefits and medical bills for 36 mil­lion people. 
Social Security operates on a pay-as-you-go basis with the trust funds serving as a buffer or con­tingency reserve during periods when outgo exceeds income. If the old age fund were depleted, there would be delays in the system's ability to send out checks on the third of each month, the trustees said. 
The old age fund fell from nearly S37 billion in 1975 to S2l.5 billion currently. Congress previously shifted revenues from the disability 
to the old age fund in 1980-81 to keep it from running dry then. 
The disability fund stood at S3 bil­lion at the end of 1981 and the hospital fund had a balance of 51 H.7 billion. 
The old age fund is expected to lose S4.7 billion this year and 519.3 billion in 1983 under some of the trustees' intermediate assumptions. 
NDgrad discussess abortion 

ByMARY SIEGER 
News Staff 
''The Supreme Court hoped that problems with pollution, poverty and population would be solved through abortion,"said Notre Dame graduate Charles Donovan last night during his lecture "Governmental Policy on the Right To Life Issue in the Auditorium. 
Donovan discussed the formula­
tion and aftermath of the 1913 
Supreme Court ruling that legalized 
abortions. The ruling made three im­
portant statements: that the unborn 
child is not a person, that the privacy 
of the mother was ofprimary impor­
tance and that the protection of life 
should not begin until birth or some 
time after. 
The court's ruling has caused un­
anticipated problems. One major 
problem that the court has faced is 
an increase in abortions that ha.~ 
exceeded their expectations.In 
1980, there were approximately 
l.55 million abortions performed. "This figure exceeded government projections by I 0-1 5/." stated Donovan. 
Another unforeseen problem was the creation of "abortion on demand." Apparently, the court "thought that the medical profes­sion would forestall abortions on demand," said Donovan. The medi­cal profession has not done this,however,since the court legalized abortions. 
At one point in the lecture, Donovan said that he believed that United States government might be moving toward a more "perfect" race,one without mentally or physi­cally disabled individuals. 




Apprehension rises in Mid-East oil states 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -Recent 
Iranian military victories over Iraq 
arc increasing apprehension in con­
servative Arab states about Ayatollah 
Ruhollah Khomeini's promise to ex­
port his revolution. 
The Khomcini regime on 
Thursday celebrated its third an­
niversary of proclaiming the former 
monarchy an Islamic republic and 
told neighbors in the Persian Gulf 
not to fear it. 
But the oil-rich states, six ofwhich 
have hanned together In a Gulf 
Cooperation Council, answered 
Iran's warnings that the United 
States is the real enemy by saying 
they have adopted a detailed 
strategy to deal with any Iranian at­
tempt to foment unrest inside their 
kingdoms. 
Arab diplomats here, who did not 
wish to be identified, predicted 
serious developments in the Middle 
East region because of Iran's gains in 
its IH-month old war with Iraq. 
Saudi Arabia's Riyadh radio quoted the kingdom's interior min­ister, Prince Naicf, a.o; saying the Gulf Cooperation Council has adopted "detailed contingency plans" against Iranian coup plots. 
Bahrain, one of the six Persian 
Gulf states, ha.o; charged that Iran in­
stigated a plot by 7?> nationals of 
several ncighhoring states to over­
throw the ruling royalty and estab­
lish an Islamic republic modeled 
after Iran. The alleged plotters are 
on trial. 
Iranian Prime Minister Hosscin 
Musavi said in an anniversary speech 
that Iran has "repeatedly told the 
smaller nations of the Persian Gulf 
there is no rea. 'ion for you to fear us." 
He asserted Iran's neighbors should 
fear the United States. He said 
anybody who disagreed must he 
"non-Islamic" and American. 
His remarks were seen as primari­ly directed againt Saudi Arabia, the world's largest oil exporter which maintains close military coopera­tion with the United States. Since Khomeini took over in Iran, the Saudis have tightened security for the annual Moslem pilgrimmages to guard against Iranians bringing in revolutionary propaganda. 
Iran said it recaptured 700 square 
miles of previously Iraqi-occupied 
Khuzistan province, the center of 
Iranian crude oil production and 
refinery, since its offensive started 
two weeks ago. 
Iraq's President Saddam Hussein conceded earlier in the week that his forces withdrew, but he said it wa.o; a tactical withdrawal. 
A weakening of Iraq could set in 
motion new tensions apart from the 
srnero 
rather than Arabs. -AP children for the Arthnlis 
More gives advice to future career women 
By Kim Maloof News Staff 
Elizabeth Charlton M\.'Ore, an author, analyst and autho:ity on solar energy offered four proposals that she believed are unportant for a woman to be successful in the career world last night in Stapleton Lounge in Le Mans Hall. 
She called her four proposals "big decisions", "big skills", "big you" , and "philosophical notations" . 

According to Moore, a woman faces "big decisions" when she must decide whether she wants to work and, if so, what career she wants to pursue. 
Once she has established a career goal, a woman should "swim a~ainst the current," Moore sa.td, by exploring areas in her vocatin where women are not predominant. She noted that the technical and scientific professions offer a promising future for women. Except for her career, the most important consideration a woman must make is whether 
Applications for 1982-83 ~IE~CIDffi ffi4\ffi BARTENDERSwill be available in the Student Activities Office, first floor, LaFortune Fri. 4/2. Must be returned by 5:OOPM Today. 
to marry, according to Moore. 
A career-oriented woman must 
find a husband who is 
understanding and supportive 
of her professional interests. 
Moore stressed the importance 
of developing "big skills," 
including the ability to speak in 
public, write precise sentences; 
run a meeting and work with 
computers. 
In her third topic, ''big you'', Moore offered personal considerations whtch are essential for productivity and energy. These include physical fitness, dressing with an air of authority, knowing to cry in private, maintaining a sense of humor and building a network of support through other women m the company. 
Moore also emphasr 2ed the ability to accept criticism constructively. 
She concluded her lecture with some personal philosophies. "Nothing you ever learn is ever wasted,'' she said, emphasizing, the need to remain flextble with ever-present changes. 

Foundation, complete wit. western-style boots. [AP 
Special guests: SOUTH SHORE &DRIVE TlffiE 
TONIGHTI8:00 pml 
Rainbow Roller Rink• 12th Stteet•ffilahawaka 
Tickets: J7.50 available at River City Recorda 
and at the door tonight I Special in -etore at River 
Summer Special Rates 






STORAGE 
... •lfoU''~~~....­---=-=---=--~~ 
,;,;;,IA]aQIIIDIDniR... 
CALL NOW 683-1959 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS APPROX 2Y2 MILES NORTH U.S. 31-33 GATES OPEN ALLDAY SUNDAY 
aster Mini Warehouses 
threat of Iran's fervor to spread its 
revolution. 
Pro-Soviet Syria, which h t as accused both Iraq and Jordan of encouraging the fanatical Moslem Brotherhood in its campaign of hombings and assassinations in Syria, might step up pressure onJor­dan if Iraq ha.'> to deal with strong Iranian advances. 
Syria and jordan have periodically 
massed troops at their common 
frontier. They have also differed 
over support oflran or Iraq. 
Syria maintains Iraq was wrong to launch the territorial war because it diverts Arab resources from the real enemy, which it maintains is Israel. 
Jordan, on the other hand, has sup­
ported the Iraqis over the Iranians, 
the majority of whom are Persian 

The Observer Friday, April2, 1982-page 5 
-----·----I ---·----___,__
and lisa Keen, five-year-old present President Reagan with a stuffed twins from Dorothy, N.]., who both likeness of himself Wednesday. The soft have rheumatoid arthn'tis and are poster sculpture was/resented in western attire, 
• 


The Observer Friday, April 2, 1982 -page 6 
Reagan popularity do-wn inrecent poll 

would be about as well off during the next year. 
As with all sample surveys, the results of AP-NBC news polls can vary from the opinions of all Americans because of chance varia­tions in the sample. 
For a poll based on about I,600 interviews, the results are subject to an error margin of 3 percentage points either way because ofchance variations. That is, ifone could have talked this past week to all Americans with telephones, there is only 1 chance in 20 that the findings would vary by more than 3 percent­age points. 
Ofcourse, the results could differ from other polls for a number of reasons. Differences in the exact wording ofquestions, differences in when the interviews were con­ducted and different methods of in­terviewing could also cause 

One ofmany dramatic scenesfro_m the play, Theatre Group. [Photo by ]ilrOriger]
variations. 

Sly Fox, which is sponsored by St. Ed's 
Civilians mustleave 

NationalistsblockhandoverofSinaito Egypt 
The nationalists landed in rubber
YAMIT, Occupied Sinai (AP) -A dinghies and about 25 broke
boatload of Israeli nationalists through the line of unarmed sol­landed on the beach and punched diers, said Moshe Hager, the group's

through a cordon ofsoldiers yester­leader. Three others were arrested
day to join thousands of civilians with six anti-withdrawal activists
who were hoping to block the hand­among the hundreds who thronged
over ofSinai to Egypt by defying or­the shore to greet the invaders.
ders to leave. The scuffle on the palm-lined beach near the northern Sinai town of Yamit dramatized the last-ditch 
battle to halt the evacuation by nationalists who put no faith in the peace treaty with Egypt, in which Is­
Architecture 
lecture 

rael agreed to leave the Sinai by April cancelled 25. 
The huge Israeli withdrawal operation has entailed the resettle­The University of Notre Dame 
ment ofsome 5,000 civilians and the "Visitors in Architecture" lecture 
uprooting of more than a dozen Is­originally scheduled for April 7 has 
raeli settlements built in eastern been cancelled due to the death of 
Sinai over 12 years. the speaker, Dr. Fazlur R. Khan, 
The government ordered all partner and chief structural en­
civilians to leave Sinai by yesterday gineer of Skidmore, Owings and 
and the military declared the oc­MerrillofChicago. Dr. Khan suffered 
cupied area an oiDimits military a heart attack while on business in 
zone at midnight Wednesday. But it Saudi Arabia. 
made no effort to dislodge some 2,000 activists who had evaded 
roadblocks and squatted in 
abandoned homes over the last few 
months.

r.w;c;;;-;.;;;~;1 
iI VocationCounseling
I ----­
I H 
I 
ow do I know if I have a vocation to the priesthood? 
1 Wat is the academic
I 

and formation program for becoming a priest? 
I ----
Wa:scholarships aQd 

1 financial aid are available for seminary training? 
II 
''~' 

What are the various I apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? 
I 
H

I ow do I prayI if I'm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood I and I'm not sure?
I --------­
I 

For a personal. conf1dent1al mtel"\ lt''o\ v.1th no obllqdllon please Y.rite or call the \OCal!on dirKtor 
Re\. ~ndrt• L<•wlll<•. '·'' 
Bo' 541

I ~~~~ 
I 
For appo1ntm·. nt 
I 1 II
I 
call bet>Aet..'ll 8 JO d rn 
and430pm 

1 phone: 
About 20 families of legitimate Yamit homeowners and busines-
I 

smen have permission to stay uniil April 15 to clean up their affairs. 
The newest arrivals were part ofa 60-man expedition that sailed from Tel Aviv in five yachts and rendez­voused with a fishing vessel to com­plete the 94-mile voyage. About 30 people remained on the fishing ves­sel, guarded by two Israeli patrol boats. 
The seaborne operation was one of several imaginative attempts by the anti-withdrawal movement to penetrate army barricades and patrols. It was designed to evoke the memory ofJewish immigrants who 
Two British soldiers killedin IRA attack 
LONDONDERRY, Northern Ireland (AP) -IRA guerrillas waiting in ambush in an apartment they seized shot and killed two British soldiers in civilian clothes riding in an unmarked van outside a Roman Catholic cathedral yester­day. 
They were the fourth and fifth sol­diers murdered from ambush in a week. 
I 219 239-6385 II 
(lit?£~ Uur ()rl£1?§*********************************
L-------------------------J 
I 
I I
1 
1
I 
1 
I 
I
I 

SUMMER STORAGE SPAOE 
Special discount for RDISMC students (Sx lOspace $18.S0permonth) CALL 259-0335 to RESERVE SPACE SELF LOCK ~STORAGE OF MCKilfLEY 816 East Me Kinley Mishawaka 
Security Patrol Checks 
I'
1 

********************************* 
I 

Sea.:~ 12cat§ -Attt?lltl()ll
I 

* Sc.t.11:J()-1:J() *
I
1 

* ~f:?W 11()Uf§ * 
I 
1 1
I I 

United Beverage Co. 
1 I 

(Next to police station on Sample)
I 
broke through British sea blockades in the 1940s before Israeli indepen­dence. 
Many of the resisters are Or­thodox Jews who have shaved off their beards and have hidden their skullcaps to fool the troops into believing they are Yamit residents. 
The illegal squatters have used a number of other guises to slip past army roadblocks. One group dressed up as Bedouin nomads. An­other 30 arrived in Yamit hidden in a furniture truck ostensibly on its way to pick up the household goods of departing settlers. 
The Irish Republican Army claimed responsibility for the attack, calling the soldiers "plainclothes un­
dercover agents." The IRA said it also was responsible for setting offa 600-pound bomb under a railroad bridge near Newry that closed the main Belfast-Dublin rail line yester­day morning. 
The attacks came as British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's Cabinet approved a plan to set up a 78-member elected assembly in Northern Ireland this fall as a first step toward restoring partial self­rule. 
On March 25, three British sol­
diers were shot and killed in a 
crowded West Belfast street by an 
IRA gang that took over a house, 
held a family hostage and waited for 
their prey. 
The IRA also murdered police Sgt. Norman Duddy last Sunday as he left a Presbyterian church in London­derry. 
The wave of violence is apparent 
retaliation for last week's claim by 
Chief Constable Sir John Hermon 
that "the terrorists are reeling" from 
defections and nearly 200 arrests. 
Yesterday's killings brought to 
350 the number of British troops 
slain in 13 years of sectarian strife. 
The overall death toll is 2,185 
including 283 other members of 
Ulster's security forces. 
The Irish Republican Army is 
fighting to unite the Protestant­
majority North with the Catholic 
Irish Republic. 
To restore a measure of self-rule 
to the 1.5 million people of Ulster, 
Mrs. Thatcher's cabinet approved a 
plan put forward by Northern 
Ireland Secretary James Prior for 
election of a 78-member assembly 
this fall. 

j ~ 
j 
Friday, April 2, 1982 -page 7


Editorials 
Don't ignore the rights of the born 
Most of you probably know that this much attention paid the "rights of the relief from this menace from Washing­many of them will never come back. the button room pushes the wrong but­week has been "Respect Life Week" unborn'' these days in Congress and ton; instead, Ramblin' Ronnie con­Along with draft registration comes ton by mistake. Then the rights of the at Notre Dame. What this consists of is throughout the nation; meanwhile, the tinues as a card-carrying member of the continued buildup of our nation's unborn will not matter anymore, be­a collection of films and guest speakers rights of the born and already living to the National Rille Associ11tion despite defense. Much of this increase is com­cause there will not be any "hom'.' that are all basically saying the same live are slowly being eroded. I wish to his near-murder at the rqercy ofa hand­ing in the form of nuclear weapons. people left to bear them. 
thing -abortion is morally wrong, point out a few examples of this mad­gun. Fortunately, some enlightened This, justifiably, has Western Europe I find it rather ridiculous that many and there ought to be some law or a ness. towns like Morton Grove, Ill., are in an uproar, and also has many people of the same people who are in favor of constitutional amendment against it­There are more people at or below attempting to do something about the in this country up in arms. This is a constitutional amendment hanning to an audience who hasically believes the poverty level in this country than handgun problem by enacting very probably the greatest threat currently al,ortion are against aid to the needy the same thing. ever before. There are more people strict handgun-control legislation. in existence to life as we know it. We here and abroad, handgun control, an dying of starvation and malnutrition Earlier this year, Reagan announced have seen films of Hiroshima and end to draft registration, an end of than ever before. What has been done his intention to continue a potential Nagasaki and are aware of the in­nuclear proliferation and a freeze (or a
Timothy Neely 
to stem this tide? Nothing. In fact, cur­life-threatening situation for many credihle destruction these things can decrease) in defense spending. If we 
rent Washington policies have helped male young adults in this country -cause. are going to "respect life," as we pur­
to make these problems what they are draft registration. In the event of an­We also are becoming more aware port to do this week in that lecture 
My Tum today. Cutbacks in such programs as other war (and with young men already. of the insidious effects of radiation. series, we ought to respect the life of 
food stamps, school lunches, and other registered, that makes the possibilty a And with nuclear proliferation the born as well. 
I am not going to argue for or help to the needy, while prices of basic little more thinkable), those who lack continuing, it can only he a matter of 
against ahortion. Most people here necesslttes continue to go up either connections or convictions will time that either some crackpot gets his 
have made up their minds one way or (admittedly not as fast as they once be sent off to war involuntarily, and hands on one and uses it, or someone in 
the other. <md no amount of lobbying did, but they are climhing nonethe­
and propagandizing from either the less), certainly Joes not he.lp keep 
pro-lifers or the pro-choicers is going those already living al.ive. 
to change their minds. What I would Around the world, starvation and 
like to offer is the following question: malnutrition continues at high levels. 
if this was supposed to he "Respect (And it is not entirely the fault of 
Life Week," what happened to the poorly-administered infant formula.) 
respect for those who are already here? Over the years, the U.S. has supplied 
I know that this week'sevents were much aid to the needy of other lands, 
sponsored hy the ND/SMC Right to however, there have been cutbacks in Life group; that is why they were all this kind of foreign aiJ, which can ahoutthe ahortion situation. However, keep people alive; at the same time, in­by treating only the problems of the un­creases in military-related aid to many horn, "Respect Life Week" becomes of these same countries have occurred, a misnomer. In actuality, this has been which do not help the hungry and "Let's Ban Abortion Week." This poverty-stricken -in fact, as in the seems to reflect a disturhing trend case of many authoritarian-totalitarian throughout the country. nations, military aid actually denies 
One prominent Washingtonian people life quite directly. describes Ronald Reagan's stance on More people are killed by handguns, abortion in comparison to his other guns with no other purpose except kill­policies by saying that he "believes ing, in the U.S. than all other countries thut life begins at conception and ends combined several times over. The odds at hirth." From Reagan's record so of heing killed by one are increasing all far, I tend to believe that. There is the time. There has been no sign of 

Shuttle Shock : Where do we go from here? 




P.O.BoxQ Dininghalls ham it up 
when I speak ahout all of this ­

Dear Editor: 
would he the last person to ham it up. 

Not only dill the S.A.G.A. food 
Tim Zofkie 

service leave the Notre Dame dining 
514 Flarrner Hall 

halls at the end of last year, their good food planning and meal originality left with it. What is this obsession the ining halls has had this year with ham 

Stepan use 

'! Mountain climbers (chopped ham sandwiched), grilled ham sandwiches, 
inner ham slices,-breakfast ham, ham Dear Editor: snucked into submarine sandwiches, ham and cheese between biscuits, ham We feel that it is time for the usc of salad sandwiches -a ham by any Stepan Center to he restricted to Notre other name would not taste as sweet ! Dame students only. There is currently Ham for main courses. ham for brunch only one persn who sits at the door and (green eggs and ham). How do I ham lets anything and everything into the thee ? Let me count the ways (from gym. From now on we insist that this Ham-let?). They are really trying to person should check for N.D. student ham-mer this into us. These meals !.D.'s and let only N.D. students aren't really fit for ham-sters, but l inside. Stepan Center is not a public hope this letter doesn't ham-per our playground. future relations with the dining halls. Believe me, I am not exaggerating Second Floor. Keenan Hall 
==Ihe=Obsenrer== Editorial Board Department Managers 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Co.nmentaries, opinions and letters are the views  Editor-in-Cbief.............................. Michael Monk Managing Editor..........,..... Ryan Ver Berkmoes Executive News Edifor.........................Kelli Flint SMC News Edilor..............,.k... Margaret Fosmoe Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles  Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello Controller .............................................Eric Schulz Advertisin~ Manager.......................Chris Owen Production Manager..................Maura Murphy Circulation Manager ..........................Ray Inglin  
of their authors. Column space is available to aJI members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is eocounged.  Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown  Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley  
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239·5303  Pboto Editor ...................................Rachel Blount  founded November 3, 1966  

now wanted to drop as many high ex­tier. Flash Gordon meets Manifest must excercise caution in future use 
plosives as possible on each other, Destiny. We peaked when we went of the shuttles, especially hy the 
from as far away as possible. We to the moon. Things have been military. The Administration has no 
used to be allied with Russia and generally quiet and scientific since concept of the difference hetween 
China. We were enemies with Ger­then. what we do and what we are per­
many and Japan. Now we're friends Until now. The idea of a reusable ceived to be doing. 
with Japan and enemies with Russia, rocket is intriguing. It means true If the Russians feel a shuttle gap 
China and only half of Germany. conquest of space. It's kind of like and he gin to develop their own space 
having a family car we can take out of weapons, we would then have to 
the hangar and go for a few spins keep up and then we could have es­
around the earth. Sort of. calation similar to that of the Bomb
Jim McGillivray 
Races at the end of World War II. that has come at a time when we are Right now there are only faint starved for a little good news. Seems 
It's a new idea with some glamor 
rumhlings of trouhlc. That means
Left Out 
innocent enough. Columbia and now 1s the sensihle time to set up con­
. These German scientists were very Challenger and whatever follows trols of its use while everyone is still adaptahle and very good. Soon we all will repair and launch satellites on relatively luc1d ahout the whole had missiles. Then we discovered future commercial misions. thing. that the only thing better than The Air Force has also hooked We do not want to make the space missiles is having the Big One substantial space on future shuttle shuttle a new toy under Pentagon and perched right up there on top of them. trips. No one is too upset except the Kremlin Christmas tree. You know 
So now it doesn't matter who our Russians-. They are upset about the, how kids are, they can't wait to play friends are; we can change friends as shuttle's military potential hut even with a new toy. much as we want, point the missiles more upset because they don't have It would be nice to keep the shuttle at any new enemies, and forget one. Military men get funny when purely scientific hut it's heen awhile everyone else. This keeps everyone someone else has a new weapon. In since taking leaps for mankind was alert. Europe is now more alert than true international maturity, if they popular. The potential for snowball­
they've ever been because they aren't can't have one, no one should. ing combined with the brainless gits sure who their friends are. The Russians want arms talks to running the show on hoth sides of the 
Dehates over rockets and where to include shuttles and their role. They Iron Curtain make this a dangerous put them causes confusion for are afraid that . we could use the time in the history of the shuttle. Europeans and most of us. It was shuttles to grab communications Let's keep it clean, anJ maybe much simpler when we sent up satellites in an emergency such as a some generals will be disappointed at 
humans. Handsome young presi­war and that isn't cricket yet. Now Christmas. dents sent handsome young fighter you and I know we would never do 
pilots into space on glorious missions anything like that. They are probably of conquest. just a little confused over some American technology was vind­misunderstanding from the past. icated and we finally had a new fron-But all of that is irrelevant. We 

The Space Age grew out of what is perhaps man's most fundamental Jesire. No, it isn't the desire to lly. 
It's the desire to drop as many high explosives a~ possible on an enemy from as far away as pssible. German scientists did this fairly well in World War I l but never quite good enough, so at the end of the war, half of them took jobs in Russia and the other half moved to the United States. 
The Allies had decided that they 



I!!!I!!!!!II!!!S HQW ( fi_SE 
Friday, Aprnz, 1982 -page 8 
Dancing is concerted effort 
to concert: v. to plan together; Theatre, wrote all the scenarios ly, the intermingling ofthe settle or adjust by conference or from which Stahl has designed the musicians and the dancers on stage agreement. movement. establishs a clearer relationship be­
~e final presentation ofthe The cooperative effort begins tween the dance and the music. 
.1 Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Dance with the choreographic and design The Descent Beckons as the As­
Theatre, Our Spring Concert, is a dimensions and extends to the musi-cent Beckoned is a piece inspired by 
collaborative effort ofmusicians, the poem by William Carlos Wil­
composers and choreographic ar­liams entitled "The Ascent. Roger tists who have produced three Tari Brown Briggs was enlisted to compose the original dance works to be original score which will be per­
~­
~ ' presented this weekend at formed by the String Duo and O'Laughlin Auditorium. cal element ofthe concert. The pianist, Jeffrey Jacobs. The dance
r. Brady/Stalker String Duo will active­
Assistant Professor Debra Stahl, focuses on the sense ofloss, out of director ofthe Dance Theatre and ly participate in the progression of which the process ofrenewalt choreographer, has joined efforts the dances. Unlike most dance con­begins. The dramatic process which with Assistant Professor Thomas Leff certs, the dancing will revolve the dance incorporates is the move­
. in creating these pieces. Leff, who around the placement ofthe ment from bondage to release and (: has worked extensively in Dance musicians on the stage. Aesthetical-freedom. 
f History dictates the flavor of Prague Dumka. Set in 1890, this newly conceived work traces the events ofone early autumn day in a garden park. Somewhat romantic, yet folkish, the dance reflects these in scenery and costuming. Clayton 

From keyboard
Henderson will join the Duo in playing the score, "Dumky", by Dvorak. 
The final piece, Trois Dansueses, 
to satellite 
differs from the other two pieces in 
that it is an abstract lyrical piece 
choreographed using the classical 
N
otre Dame is not generally To record a program, Cerny
ballet vocabulary. 
thought ofas being nationally studies and plays a piece through,
The collaborative effort in assem­
renowned for education in music, making notes and practicing various 
bling these works and translating the 
but the students and faculty in the sections. When he has the composi­
visual and oral elements into move­
Music Department are working tion "under his belt," he records it. 
ment does not end with the 
diligently to change that. One Then he records the commentary:
musicians, choreographer and the 
project that is expanding Notre he introduces the program, iden­
scenarist. The dancers involved 
Dame's reputation in this area is tifies the piece and discusses the 
have contributed their time, ideas 
Professor William Cerny's composer and his work, the com­
and energy into making this concert 
"Explorations into Piano poser's historical period. and then 
a universal effort. 
the piece itself, its form, and its varia­

With only the senior com­
tion. 

prehensive finals to come, attention should be called to Colleen Quinn Ellen Richiski 
Cerny has completed enough who has established herselfas a 
tapes by now to keep his weekly choreographer ofboundless talent, 
series on the air for two years. W AUS having presented a major piece in in Berrien Springs, Michigan has the winter concert and contributed 
broadcast Cerny's "Explorations"Uterature." Cerny, an accomplished

her talents to Student Players. She 
sinceJuly, 1980, and WVIK in Rock professional concert pianist who

will be taking the stage at O'Laughlin 
Island, Illinois has carried thetaught music for thirteen years at the

as one whose talent has just begun to 
program since November, 1980.
University of Rochester's famed flourish. 
Starting injuly, Cerny's program willEastman School of Music in New

Our Spring Concert is a creative 
be broadcast by satellite over Na­York, came to Notre Dame in 1972

experience which invites the atten­
tional Public Radio (NPR) stations,to chair the Music Department for

tion of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's 
through the Public Radio nine years. This year, Cerny has been

campuses this weekend. This 
Cooperative. NPR is a public service on leave from the University to work

presentation embodies the essence 
network whicb includes about 260 on his project. "Explorations into

ofwhat Funk and Wagnalls meant 
stations throughout the country.

Piano Literature" is a series ofweek­
when they defined the verb, "to con­
The federal government partiallyly half-hour radio programs in whichcert." 

funds NPR stations to broadcastCerny plays and comments on classi­programs that interest and entertain,cal piano compositions from the and have artistic or community18th century through the modern value for the nation. NPR "uplinks" period.

Duo UJork UJith dance theatre 
recordings to a satellite, then "downlinks," or beams the programsCerny began his "Explorations in­

Cteven Stalker, cello, and Janet with live music, it creates a whole Janet Brady, violin, is the concert down from the satellite to every
to Piano Literature" as a series of

Jsrady, violin, together form the different kind ofaesthetic." master for the Utica Symphony and NPR receiver. Through NPR,
lecture-recitals in 1968, while he

Brady/Stalker String Duo, now in Some musicians have difficulty has appeared as a guest soloist with Cerny's "Explorations" will reach a
taught music at Eastman. Cerny

residence with the Notre working with dancers because ofthe symphonic orchestras in Syracuse, national audience. 
decided to record some ofthe musicDame/Saint Mary's Dance Theater need to coordinate the way in which Scranton, Oneota, Binghampton and he was playing for college and uni­In his "Explorations," Cerny offers
,; and the Saint Mary's Music Depart­dancers move with the way the Bowling Green where she received versity audiences. One ofCerny's fine, enjoyable musical perfor­ment. The Duo will perform for the musicians play the piece. Stalker her Masters Degree. Before· forming graduate students worked at a radio mances and interesting, informative Dance Theater'sSpring Concert on maintains "often, the dancers have the Duo, Brady was a member ofthe station which broadcast classical commentaries on classical pianoApril 2, 3 and 4, along with Saint worked with another recording of Audobon Quartet, winners ofthe music, so the student put Cerny's literature. His programs reveal in­Mary's faculty members Clayton the music for many months, so that -Evian International Competition in recordings on the air. Then Cerny sight to composers and their art.
Henderson and Jeffrey Jacobs. when we begin practicing with 1976 and the Villa-Lobos Competi­came to Notre Dame to chair the Cerny's "Explorations" appeals them, time must be spent adjusting tion, Rio dejaniero, in 1977. She has Music Department. He broadcast his especially to piano students andtempos, rhythms, etc. The best solu­taught on the music faculty at series over WSND for a short time, teachers, because Cernytion is to have them work with your Marywood College and teaches in
Mary Francell 
but didn't have enough recordings demonstrates and explains a com­own recording of the music, as they the string program at Suny­to continue the series. So this year positions's "style ingredients," suchdid with the (Roger) Brigg's piece Binghampton. 
Cerny has been working on leave as variety, mood, tone, rhythm, and
("Ascent")." Stephen Stalker, cello, is the prin­from the University to expand his pedal technique. That is, Cerny ex­The scenarios for two ofthe dance ciple cellist for the Utica Symphony series.
The Brady /Stalker Duo has been plains what pianists will learn from 
works were written by Prof. Thomas and an adjunct professor of music at 
performing since 1978. Located in playing the composition.
Leff, Technical Director and Resi­Colgate University and Suny­Cerny records his music in aEarlville, New York, the Duo con­dent Scene Designer. The Binghampton. Stalker has played home studio in South Bend. His in­Cerny has achieved two goals in cenizes extensively in the Mid­Brady/Stalker Duo had worked with with the American Symphony ofthe strument is a 7-foot Steinway grand his "Explorations": recording theAtlantic region. The Duo has also 
Leffpreviously at Colgate University Air and was member ofthe Madison classical piano compositions that he
piano in superb condition. Theworked extensively in dance theater where Leffconceived and designed Quartet before forming the programs include pieces from the studies and plays, and finding a na­as members of"The Assembly: over a dozen danceworks, which are Brady/Stalker String Duo. Prof. standard piano repertoire and tional audience for that music.

Music and Dance Theater" and as ac­still actively performed. Leff likes to Stalker is a graduate ofthe Manhat­pieces not normally heard in con­companists for the "Quinlan­
place the musicians right on stage tan School of Music. At Notre Dame and in the South
cert programming. Cerny decides toKrichels Dance Ensemble" and with the dancers, often incorporat­This marks the first time the Notre include a composition in the series Bend area, "Explorations into Piano 
"Dianne McPherson and Dancers" in 
ing them into the action. "It's excit­Dame/Saint Mary's Dance Theater either because he has studied, Literature " can be heard at 90.7 fm 
concerts in New York City as well as 
ing to be in the midst ofthe has worked with live musicians. on WAUS on Sunday nights, 7 p.m. 
played and taught the piece as partupstate New York. 
( After April 7, WAUS will broadcast

dancing," says Brady, "One feels Choreographer Debra Stahl calls it ofhis musical career, or because he
"Working with dancers is ex­more involved in the work, much " ...a valuable and interesting ex­decides that the piece is an impor­the program on Wednesday mor­tremely rewarding;" says Brady, "it 
more so than in the traditional bal­perience, particularly for the dan­nings, II :30 a.m.). Listen, learn, en­
tant part ofthe composer's reper­
gives you a different perspective on lets, where the orchestra is hidden cers, most ofwhom have never done toire. joy. the art form. When dance is fused 
away in the pit." this before." 

_.._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._~._._~._._._._._._._.__.._._._._._.U.a.-.-.-.a-..a•i~--~-~:~~~--..u.-;~~----~------neaa~~a;.~..;;•.~~;,;,-.;a~-·~~--·,~~ 

The Observer Features Section Friday. April 2, 1982 -page 9 
J
eannie , that old redhead of mine, is a much-married lady now; her first wedding anniversary was observed in March. For all I know, she comes to breakfast every morning with curlers in her hair and enough cold crt· am on her face to look like an uncooked meringue pic. She makes being a good wife seem like a happy way to live. Nick it', ofcourse, is her one true love, her hus­hand in the sight ofGod and man. Their home Is too gra­cious and spacious to be descrihed as a honeymooners' hidcway. They have a furnished guest room; every weekend, they seem to take in hoarders -mostly old Domcrs, whom one or the other used to date. Jeannie's stuffed mushrooms in themselves are worth the trip from Chicago. 

Rczv. Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonelv God 
So much for old loves. The question for me is: is there lik after Jeannie? Tht• poet Yeats has a line: "My heart lies there with Fergus in the grave." Jeannie, that imper­tinent flirt, is not Fergus, and my heart has not died and gone to a hetter plan·. Yeats could act like Fergus' widow, ifhe wanted; hut I'm not some Heathcliff-figure that hangs broodingly around the newlyweds' apart­mt·nt, like some old lover's ghost that you have lately met. Jeannie was my morale officer. On the day she got married, she demoted herself; in the words of the song from Guys and Dolls, it was time for ht·r to blow on some other guy's dke. Now I am a morale oftker to her marriagt·. The question ti>r me is: is there life after Jeannie1 
Jeannie taught me that redheads art· special, because tht·y try harder. Tht·y have a special kind of tenderness, growing out ofan experience of pain, hecaust· as children they were often greatly teased, and made to t(:l'lthat they were ugly ducklings. It never helps a little giri,Jt·annic says, when some mean hoy calls her "Carrot-top," leaving her feeling unwanted, like a vegt·tahle left on a plate that you couldn't eat hecausc tht· t<L~te would make you sick. It never scemt·d a com­pliment when strangers said: "Hey, red." You couldn't an~wer: "lley, black," without sounding dumb. In children, dumbness is the unpardonable sin they can never ti>rgive themselves. 
As a redhead-redheads have told me-you can't wear certain colors, and you have to he careful about letting the sun take liherties with yourface, if you don't want to move through the summer looking like a firebrand. Thoughtless people assume that ifyour hair is the color offlame, you must be Irish, and have a quick temper; or behind your back, they whisper that you look like a foxy one, and they consider you sly. Ifyou try hard to be sweet, they search for signs ofbitchiness un­der the charm. 

Redheads get scars earlier in life than most ofthe rest of us. Their dolls are the Raggedy Anns that have mop hair and silly expressions like a circus clown. Amoppet can see for herselfwhat doll-makers think she looks like: dumpy, freckled-face, ugly; dressed in hand-me-downs, like a maid ofall work. Why should maiden aunts feel that a child should be happy to be gifted with such an uninspiring toy? Why should a boy think he's funny, when he congratulates a girl on her orange hair? 
Redheads, when you compare them, have a beauty that can hreak your heart. On the canvasses ofTitian, Christ is painted as an auburn-headed lad, and His mot­her stands with angels crowned with fire. The modera­tions ofred seem so suitable for the faces ofdivinity that other colors look like an ethnic prejudice. Tints that can he as dismal as the mark ofCain on the outlaw (Fagin and Uriah Heep were both redheads) can be richly glorious on a woman's head, making her a paradigm of beauty, against which other beauty is measured, as when Katherine Hephurn played Mary ofScotland. 
Once you've let a redheaad become important in your life, you feel that you've joined some great tradi­tion, like scholars who have begun collecting tlrst edi­tions, or bon trivants who prefer Flemish wines. In a restaurant, you check the room for redheads. You stop strangers on the street ifthey've been crowned with glory, to compliment them on their heauty. If they're walking dogs and the dogs happen to he cocker spaniels, you also praise the beauty oftheir pets. You have a right to comment, because you belong to the tradition. It would he inexcusable, ifyou lacked the credentials ofappreciation. Fortunately, I had a good teacher, and her name was Jeannie. 
·she told me what it was like to be aJeannie. After looking at life for a little while through Jeannie's eyes, I saw beauty and goodness and pain in ways I never un­derstood them before. One little redhead made quite a difference in an older person's life. 
Is there life, for me, withoutJeannie? Certainly there is, as long as there are young people around like her to help me see things I'd been color-blind to before. Maybe no one will ever stand so close to me again as Jeannie did, hut I wish somebody would try. 
I guess that's the wistful, yearning hope ofall ofus: that somebody will try to be aJeannie in our lives. 




All that collegiate jazz 
'T"ht· "joint will be jumpin" this renowned jazz artists: Charley mer CJF competitors who are now 
l weekend as the Collegiate Jazz Haden, Frank Foster, Shelly Manne, leaders in the field ofjazz is too Festival descends on Stepan center Nat Adderly, and critic Dan Mor­long to mention." hringing some of the finest jazz in genstern. These musicians will 
There are three music sessions
the country to Notre Dame. perform Friday night in the tradi­in the festival -Friday, 7:30 to
tional JudgesJam, which is always 1 :00; Saturday I :30 to 4:00pm and 
Prevlczw 
7:30 to 1:00. Ticket prices are 55.00 for Friday night, 52.50 for 
"These musicians will 

Saturday afternoon and !4.00 forperform Friday night Saturday night. An all session pass may be purchased for 118.50 or
in the traditional 

57.50 for ND/SMC students and 
claimed jazz pianist and scholar judge's jam, which is faculty. who has been "in residence" at Dr. Billy Taylor, critically ac­
always the highlight of

Notre Dame this week, calls the 
festival "the finest college jazz fes­the festival. it tival in the country." Taylor has spent the week lecturing and performing to packed houses, and 
the highlight of the festival. 

working closely with the Notre Dame Big Band. The ND Big Band The judges represent a wide will open the festival at 7:30 variety of jazz styles -from Shelly tonight. Manne who is a leader in the West 
Coast "cool" that originated in the Also performing at the festival 
early fifties, to Charlie Haden, who will he sixteen ofthe finest college 
along with Orneue Coleman, is a bands from across the country. 
leader in modern progressive jazz. These musicians will be compet­ing for several awards which will Fr. George Wiskirchen em­honor the most outstanding per­pha~ized that while theJudgesJam formances of individual soloists is the highlight ofthe festival, It is and large ensembles. not the only reason to attend. "The 

The competition will be judged college musicians here are 'big by Dr. Taylor and five other names' ofthe future. The list offor­"T'1his week I am proud to in­
1 troduce to the Showcase pages a regular Friday feature, What's Happening ...Weekend. I will make an attempt to list and describe (to the greatest extent ofmy abilities) what activities and events will he going on during the coming weekend. I apologize if I overlook anyone. Understand this is my first week. To insure that such an oversight is avoided in the future, let me know hy phone, mail orcar­rier squirrel by 6 P.M. Wednesday what you are doing. Thanks. 

Tari Brown 
Features Editor 
•DANCE 

Our Spring Concert finishes the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Dance 
1l1eatre schedule with performances Friday and Saturday at 8 P.M. 
and Sunday at 2:30P.M. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Three pieces will 
he presented, the finale having been created by two of the depart­
ment's professors, Thomas Leff and Debra Stahl. This concert, ran­
ging from classical and modern hallet to modern dance, is highly 
recommended. 
•MUSIC 

Paul Kosidowski gives you an inside view on the ColleJ<Iatejazz Festival which will get underway Friday at 7 P.M. and continue Saturday from 12:30 to 5 P.M. and finish with a final session at 6:W 
P.M. Fifteen college hands will be competin~ before six top jazz people. If jazz is your beat, Stepan Center is where the sound is at. •THEATRE 
Washington Hall is the place to he for farce oftht· highest degree. 
St. Ed's will be performing Larry Gelhart'sSZy Fox Friday and Satur­
day at 8 P.M. Ifyou are among the many addicts of c; and..., P.M. reruns 
of M.A.S.H., see one of the most hysterical comical plays hy this 
show's writer. 
•ART 

Five Saint Mary's art majors finish off their Senior Comprehensives 
at 1-lammes, Moreau and Little Theatre Galleries. Mary Beth O'Meara 
(painting), Twila Kitchin (painting and photography), Catherine 
Gunning (color photography ),Jamie Dee Bock (ceramic sculpture) 
and Margaret Ellen Hackl (hand colored xerox) will he closing their 
shows this evening. 

In the Isis Gallery in the Old Fieldhouse from April 2-H Peter I..och­
tefeld (ceramics), Mike Russell (painting/drawing) and Bill 
Arzbaecher (painting/drawing) will display their works in the 
studio home of the Notre Dame art depanment. Take a detour 
through the Fieldhouse this weekend on your way to the "hrar" and absorb the artistic atmosphere by osmosis. Maybe it will help you 
write that paper of yours. 
•MOVIES 

Both campuses will be sponsoring movies this weekend. Super­
man II, the continuing ofsaga of Lois Lane and Clark Kent takes the 
screenin the Engineering Auditorium at 7, 9: Ic; and I I :30. At Carroll 
Hall (SMC), The Story ofAdele H will roll at 7 and 9 P.M. 
•MISC 

For an entirely foreign experience, attend the International Buffet 
Saturday night from 7 P.M. in LaFortune Ballroom and taste foods 
from the Far-East, Mid-Ea'it, Europe and Latin America. On Sunday at 
7:30P.M. in Washington Hall, the Festival will end with an evening of 
entertainment from around the world. Like mom keeps telling you, 
go get cultured! 

As a part of the continuingDistinguished American Women 
Lecture Series, NBC News' "Today" anchor,Jane Pauley, will speak 
tonight at 8 P.M. in the Center for ContinuingEducation on the sub­
ject, "A Today Retrospective from). Fred Muggs to Me." Pauley has 
been invited to help celebrate I 0 years ofcoeducation at Notre 
Dame. How about male and female, two by two, attending the 
lecture? 
•LOOKOUT 

Even ifyou don't like liverwurst, you'll like a ta'ite ofGreg ()'Alessandro and Anne Slowey's original production ofWould You Carefor Some Liverwurst? Once a semester you should swallow your apprehensions and try something new. Mark off April 6 and 7, hold your breath and enjoy. 
Coming to the Band Organ Restaurant on April 19 at 7:30P.M. Tom Wibbels will be paying tribute to the golden age ofthe mighty theatre organ with a sing-a-long and finishing off the evening in grand style by accompanying a Buster Keaton silent film. Tickets are 
S3.75 and can be purchased only by calling Trudy at Osceola, 6 79­
4061 or by making checks payable to lmpro International and 
mailing to P.O. Box I072 Elkhart, Indiana 46515. Take it from one 
who has participated (unasked for, ofcourse) in such an event, this 
may be the most pure fun you have for the rest of the semester. 
That's it for this weekend. Hopefully, I'll be seeing you at some of these events. Remember, we have our spies. 
..-~-~-----u-~_..__._._.._-.-.. --~~-~-~ .. -,.-.-.-.-.--..-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.--..-.-.-.-.-.--..-.--.;;;
-~~MM--~-s~.. dD.~-.~·~=c~~~··~--~~~··~~~~~~-~-~GEi~fia~~~.~;;~7 
Sports Bri~/§ Friday! April2, 19s2 -page 10 
By The Observer and The AssociatedPress 

THE t IST ANNIVERSARY Rockne Memorial Mass and HlUD VOllEYBAll pairings have been posted outside theBreakfast will be held this Sunday at the South Dining Hall. 
Student Union offices. Play begins April 5 and continuesThe Mass will be at 8:15, with the Breakfast following. 
until An Tostal's Sunny Saturday.--The Observer
Gerry Faust will be the guest speaker. The special guests 
Sund•y'a Gemea Hall of Fame G•m•

will be Phil Carter, Dave Duerson, and Mark Zavgnin, 
Bookstore I 

Tri-Captains of the 1982 Notre Dame football team. For 
4:00-Talk Plenty S Agatn v. It's Only Emotional Only Game Scheduled 

additionalinformation, contact Tom Kirschner at 234-3790. 
--The Observer See Sportsbriefs, page 11 


The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to Insertion. All classtfieds must be prepaid. 
either in person or through the mail. 




Classifieds 

NOTICES 
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED TO ASSIST IN HANDICAPPED HORSEMANSHIP CLASSES LOCATED NEAR CAMPUS.WE PROVIDE ALL TRAIN· ING,YOU PROVIDE THE LOVE CALL 234-2263. 
SUPERMAN II This Friday and Saturday. Eng. Aud. 7,9:15,11:30. Sponsored by K otc·s. 
ATTENTION! ATTENTION! 2 Atders needed to ~t.Cioud. Minn (or anywhere thereabo!M) for Easter break. Call 7951 or6713 
HAIRCUTS! ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND $6 FOR GIRLS --LOT OF EXPERIENCE IN STYLING, ROTC AND PEASONALL Y DESIGNED CUTS FOR YOUR FACE AND HAIR CALL MICHOLE AT 7951 
4ATTENTION SMC CLASS OF 84: ap­plications are now available at the LeMans Student Activities Office for next years Junior Board commissiioners. Pick one up, fill it out, and return by Friday, April 2. QUESTIONS? call Dentse 4834. Beth 5471,Kathleen 4148, or Molly 4346 
LADIES; Mad Dog's escort seiVICe now operaltng m the South Bend area Safe, effective. reasonably pnced. very "European· services offered. Mad Dog himself is often described as "the connos­suer of the sweetest frurts of hts age, and ·a man of giant strengths and desires ... Call 3335 to achieve personal services of various sorts. 
NEED A ONE WAY AIDE FOR EASTER BAEAK?WfLSON DAIVEAWAY HAS CARS. CALL BOB AT x3185 

LOST/FOUND 
REWARD: LOST GOLD NECKLACE WITH CROSS AT CAMPUS VIEW POOL SENTIMENTAL VALUE. Please call 283-6954 
Lost-Notre Dame Monogram tacket ThurSday, March 25 a1 Sen10r Bar I have your jacket. llts mtsstng two buttons Call Dave at 8307. 
Found-Monogram jacket at sentor bar ThurSday, March 25.. You swttched it with mtne. Call Dave at8307 
LOST: Tan tweed jacket, brown suede el­bow patches. Lost before break ~ found please return to 828 Grace or call John at 6721. 
Did someone lose a blue coattn Corby s? I found one that says "IMMACULATE CONCEPTION CHEERLEADERS Call Michael at 289-7 414 and tell me what night you lhtnk you lost your coat 
Lost-contacts in case Mar. 25. If found please call3522. 
LOST: Kodak lnstamatic Camera, has an orange case If found please re-turn to 828 Grace or call John at 672t 
LOST: A GOLD CHAIN AND CRVQFIX 
AT THE ROCKNE SWIM OFFICE. "LOST' ON 1VllSDAY' MARCH 23, 1982. IF "FOUND" PLBAS/i RETURN TO 828 GRACE l£tLL OR CALL JOHN AT 6721· NO QUB5110NS 111'/U BE ASKED. HAS MUCH SBNTIMMBNTAL VALUE. 
LOST: A strand of PEARLS. Much sen­timental value. Please call Karen at 3n3 
Lost: A rust colored knapsack contatning a Finite textbook and math, hitstory, and English notebooks. If found please call Enn 5749SMC 
LOST: One set of keys on Sunday, March 28 at dinner tn C-Lme of North Dtning Hall, near the maned hamburger cheese There are six keys on a Woodstock key chain, with the room number 340 pnnted on two of them. If you have them. please call Leanne Michelle, x7076. Thanks! rm really lost without them I 
LOST-Pair of wire-rimmed glasses in brown case-Somewhere between the law school and the parking lot just south of the engineering building. If find, call Mike at 287-n8t. 
STOLEN: from South Dining Hall, 
Tues­day momtng, a while leather my purse or any of its contents to Heather Fraser at 100 Lyons. Its return would be ap­
preciated/rewarded Phone 7848. 
LOST: while gotng to St. Ed's trom the library, a black cross pen with the inttials 
K.J.C. If found please call Kevtn at8858. 
MISSING: From LEMANS SEMI· FORMAL. 3•26. OJ s WABA windbreaker If you have any info or picked ~ up, please call 284-5668 after 11 p.m. 
GREEN NOTEBOOK (pocket type) LOST on lues or wed. Important material is enclosed. Contact' Dan'Upton. 207 St. Ed's, x8822 Lost: Blue Chaucer Canter­bury Tales Text in South Dtning Hall on March 25. Tales are wntten tn Middle English. Great Senttmentat Value. If found, call Jim 3684 

FOR SALE 
Student houstng-clean. safe. $100/mo. 291-1405. 
3-4 bedroom home, furnished, 3 blocks off campus. This summer and/or fall. Graduate students preferred Call Mr Noe, 287-9636, days. 
4 Bdnn N Shore $270 mo total. Call Patty 3193228735 Call refunded 
NICE HOUSES FURNISHED CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT YEAR 2773604 
APT. FOR RENT 2880955 
BE YOUR OWN BOSS COMFORTABLE 5 BEDROOM, COMPLETELY FUR­NISHED HOUSE FOR 5 OR 6. CLOSE TO CAMPUS PHONE 288-3942. 

WANTED 
TYPING 28 years as a secretary-­excellent typist, retrred. $1.00/page call Phyllis 259-2501 · 
I NEED RIDERS TO SOUTHERN CAL FOR SUMMER ECONOMICAL!!! CALL TOM 234-0515 
ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS: 
WORKING IN NEW YORK CITY AFTER GRADUATION? NEED A PLACE TO LIVE? 81 NO GRAD IS LOOKING FOR ROOMMATE PRESENT ONE IS GOING BACK TO 
GRAD SCHOOL I HAVE A FANTASTICE APARTMENT IN A NICE, SAFE NEIGH-BOAHOOD; CLOSE & CONVENIENT TO BOTH DOWNTOWN & MIDTOWN MANHAT­TAN. IF INTERESTED, CALL JOHN AT 
212 
668-3126 DAYTIME OR 212 
858-7 464 NIGHTTIME. 
ATTENTION HAWKEYESI! The South 
Bend branch of Hawkeye World Tours 
announces w1th regret the demise of 1ts 
crwse shtp • Mtsallgned Nova. The Nova 
was sunk tn Cedar Falls, Iowa ea~y last 
week and her remams ,.,vera sold for 
scrap. But on Aprtl8. her replacement, the 
HMS Buick Wagon, wtll depart on her 
matden voyage from South Bend to Des 
Moines. A beaullful Easter tour is planned 
for several riders and Your Cru1se Direc­
tor Rachel reports that the nccc!"loda!ion~ 
aboard the new ship are much improved. 
Caplatn Dave tnvtles all who need a ride 
west along Interstate 80 as far as Des 
Moines to secure lhetr reservations by 
contactmg him at 8433 or Crutse Director 
Rachel at 7893. 
DESPERATE! Need a ride to Connecticut area for Easter. Call Ltz at7965. 
Need graduation ttx! Will pay I Call4233. 
Need ride to SOUTH FLORIDA for Easter Break. Call Todd 1763. 
Need ride to U. of P. in Phtlly for Easter 
Can leave Wed mght and return Tues. 
Call Mary 5411. SMC 
Need nde to Chicago fpr two; Apnl 8 th 
Will share expences, Louis-287-0615 
I need a nde to BAL TIMOAE for Easter to see many relatives. I can leave as early as Tuesday and get back the next Tues­day tf necessary. Wtll share usual and I really enjoy dnvtng at mght My relatives are counting on seetng me so don't let them dowm. Call Mike at3403 as soon as possible and make many people happy. 
HELPI!! I DESPEAATEL Y NEED A AIDE TO OKLAHOMA CITY FOR EASTEAIII MY OTHER AIDE GOT CANCELLED AND ALL MY CHOCOLATE BUNNIES WILL MELT OR GET STALE IF I DON'T GET TO THEM!!! CALL RENEE AT 7905!!!11111 
EASTER BREAK CALL KEVIN 1767 
HELP! I DESPEAATEL Y NEED A AIDE TO ATLANTA FOR EASTER!!! CAN LEAVE ANYTIME NEXT WEEK. WILL SHARE DRIVING AND EXPENSES. BE A GOOD EGG AND CALL 3351 
HELP! I NEED A AIDE FOR THIS WEEKEND. ANYONE GOING EAST ON 1-80 THROUGH PENN PLEASE CALL GREGG AT 8607 
HELP• I need a nde to northern Jersey for break. Will leave as soon as possible and wtll share usual. Call Pam. 5236 SMC. 
Riders needed to north New Jersey for Easter break. Will leave as soon as you can. Call Mike 6700. 
PHILL Y· NEED RIDE HOME FOR EAS­TER. WILL SHARE AS USUAL CALL RON AT6261 
We need nd.,~ h~rTl~ io Connect·,~~t or NYC area for Easter Break. Will share usual. Call Matt-3248 or Dan-1820. 
Need ride to Cleveland for Easter Call John at1587 
NEED AIDE to LONG ISLAND for Easter Can leave on Wednesday afternoon 4/7 Will share usual. Call Paul at 1100. 
TYPING: EX-LEGAL SECRETARY. 272­5337 
Wanted: A roommate tor the summer and/or fall semesters to share 1 bedroom Campus View Apt. Call Greg at233-4381. 
NEED AIDE TO PITTSBURGH CAN LEAVE ANYTIME. WILL SHARE COSTS. CALL TOM6105 
Need ndeto Lousville. Can leave Wed. af­ter noon. Call AI at1782 
WANTED: Roommate for summer and/or fall semester. Call Greg at 

FOR RENT 
USED & OUT-PAINT BOOKS bought. sold, searched ERASMUS BOOKS. Tues-Sunday, 12-6. 1027 E Wayne (One block south of Eddy-Jefferson tntersec­
tion.) 
USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED.. SAT. SUN. 9o-7 CASPERSON 1303 BUCHANAN AD , NILES 
SURPLUS JEEPS $65, CARS $89, TRUCK $100. Similar bargains available Call for your directory on how to pur­chase. 602-998-0575 Ext· 3648 Call refundable. 
MEN-Show your lady you care wtth a gtft of spnng--a bouquet of fresh cut flowers delivered each week for 4 weeks WEC>­NESDAY'S FLOWERS 289-1211 
For Sale FOUR tixs to . Cubs-Mets baseball game Apnl 1Oth: $20 00. Call Marttn 272-0361 
STREET NAME SIGNS-your name-any legend up to 13 spaces. Looks like Notre Dame Av sign. $17.75$2.00 hdlg. IN or­ders add 4'o. (Allow 30 days) AARON'S SIGNS, PO BO 3921, SOUTH BEND, IN 
~6619. 

TICKETS 
Need extra tickets for graduation Call Mark at3008. 
need 6 tix for graduation ceremony. bert t484 
WANTED grad. tickets. Please call 277­0758 after 5.00 p.m. 
he!! Parents have threatened severance from the family blood line tf GRAD TIX don t materillze soon!! Please help! Will pay$$$!! Call Donna x7924 after 1 Opm. 


PERSONALS 
LYONS HALL FOODSALES OFFERS THE BEST IN FRESH, THICK CRUST PIZZA DEUVERED ANYWHERE OON SOUTH QUAD FOR THE NOMINAL CHARGE OF ON-SOUTH QUAD FOR THE NOMINAL DELIVERY CHARGE OF THURSDAY NIGHTS FROM 9:30 TO 11 AND ORDER YOURS. ALSO: EVERY WEDNESDAY NIGHT IS GUEST CELEBRITY NIGHT WITH WELL-KNOWN CAMPUS-FIGURES WORKING THE COUNTER/ 

REALLY WANTS IT/!!/ 
SIGN-UPS for Sophomore Literary Fes­tival being taken at Student Union Office. 2nd floor LaFortune. Chatrman of Ex­ecuttve Committee, All positions open. Stgnups March 30-April 2 
SLY FOX 
SLY FOX 
SLY FOX 
SEESLYFOX 
SEE SLY FOX 
SEE SLY FOX 
LIKE MASH? SEE THE SAME WAITERS PLAY. SLY FOX APRIL 1 .2 &3 
SLY FOX 
From the creator of MASH... Larry Gel­
t:J~art's 
SLY FOX Presented by St. Edward·s Hall Apnlt, 2, & 3 8:00pm Washtngton Hall Admtsston: $1.00 Dtrected by Mano Pedil!!' 
Break a leg, Big Bro!!! LtttleSis 
CABARET IS COli/liNG !II 
CABARET Ttckets on sale Mon. AprilS 
Dear MOM, II s finally here! The weekend you have been working so hard for. Good luck on the performances. espectally Saturdays show. Love, G. S.C. 
Clunkhead O'Finnegan b. ? -d. 3/31/82 Join Holy Cross, SMC, in a day of prayer. He gave his life for Justice and King Lear Thanks anyway, Dot 
Amaztng stunts! Dazzling spectal effects! See SUPERMAN II lhts Friday or Satur­day ntghl at the Engineenng Auditorium. Support the Kmghts of Columbus. 
COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL HIGH SCHOOL DIVISION Featuring some of the best high school jazz bands in the mtd· west! Saturday, 1\pnl 3,1982 8:30 AM­
5:00 PM Adams Htgh School FREE AD· MISSION 
cliff Bradshaw--I want to hve w1th you. If 
you let me move 1n I prom1se to be qu1et 
when you wnte. I know this seems abrupt 
after just one ntg~t. bull love your poetry. 
--Sally Bowles P S. Do you have any gin? 
I should lhtnk one• must. COME TO THE 
CABARET TICKETS ON SALE APRIL 
5th FOR THE ND STUDENT PLAYERS 
PRODUCTION OF CABARET 
Would you and/or your fnend(s) like to be 
cancatured and put 1nto cartoons? That s 
what wtll happen tf you send 1 )name, 
2)photo. and 3)address to: 
Stuff Simon 
c/o ,leb Cashtn 
BoxQ 
The Observer 
All entries w111 be 1ncluded in one stnp for 
the An Tostal frame-stufftng contest Use 
campus ma11. 1t s free! 
The Notre Dame/Satnt Marys Dance 
Theatre presents: 
Our Spmg Concert 
With guest mustctans.llle Brady/Stalker 
Stnng Duo. 
Original Score by Flog« Bltggs. 
This Friday and Saturday evemngs at 8 
p.m in 0 Laughlin Auditonum, and this 
Sunday at2:30 p.m. JOinuall 
SUPERMAN II this Fn & Sat7,9: 15.11 :30 ·EngAud Youwtll believe a man can FLY!! 
to the fling hungry women of NO: 
so you re tust dying for us to call you up 
and ask you on cjates. huh? Well, we lUSt 
went through lha grueling expertence of 
trytng to hx up our roomates for our hall 
SYA. After 32 calls, we still have one guy 
wrthout a date Now do you see why we 
get discouraged? Who are you anyway? 
II one of you want to go to the SYA wtth 
our roomate, call Mtke at 1598. 
SING? Enjoy good religtous musrc? Jotn a hard-worktng chotr that ts dedtcated to praising God with music. If you would like to be a part of thts expenence. please call for an audtlton. 277-5878-Phyllis or 1­522-1393-Aic. St. James Episcopal Cat­hedral. South Bend 
Here·s your second clue to the mystery candidate: Playtng the flute is her thing, Expenence and enthUSiasm she w111 bnng. 
COME AND HEAR FATHER THEODORE HESBUAGH,csc SPEAK ON 'NUCLEAR THREAT; UPDATE ON VIENNA MON , APRIL 5, LIB. AUD , 4 pm 
GEAI JUST A SHOT FROM THE GUILT GUN: YOU'LL BE GONE ALL THIS WEEKEND. BUT DON'T YOU PANIC, WHILE YOU'RE HAVING FUN, IU BE STUDYING ORGANIC! HAVE FUN. BE GOOD. AEMEMBEA,I'M PSYCHIC (OR 
IS IT PSYCHO?) ALOHA I TOM 

WELCOME TO NO AND ST. MARY'S MR. & MAS. KAANATZ! S SMITH 
RIVER CITY RECORDS PRESENTS HEAD EAST IN CONCERT THIS FRIDAY. APRIL 2 WITH SPECIAL GUEST SOUTH SHORE AND DRIVE TIME AT THE RAINBOW ROLLER RINK, 12TH STREET, MISHAWAKA AD­VANCED TICKETS ONLY $5.00 AVAILABLE AT RIVER CITY RECORDS, 50970 US 31 NORTH. OR TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR FOR $7.50. SPECIAL HEAD EAST IN·STOAE AP· PEAAANCE FRIDAY 3:30 AT RIVER CITY RECORDS. COME AAND MEET THE BOYS IN THE BAND. 
"The Peasants of Junk Rock · DOGFOOD SATURDAY 4/3/82 NAZZ 
DOGFOOD DOGFOOD saturday 4/3/82 NAZZ Call 8941 for Aeservattons/lnfo 
REALITY IS JUST A CRUTCH FOR PEOPLE WHO CAN'T HANDLE DRUGS.. 
SENIOR FELLOW NOMINATIONS-Ap­plications available in Student Acivtties Office thru April 12 
PEE WEE, Ginger Lips, Jatlbatl Gigolo. Touchy-Feely, & the Boatman, Is there any truth to the choir fag rumor? Ask the other "boys· in Alumni. The Big L s 
Michael Smith. Just when you thought ~ was safe to study invasion of the choc­olate soldiers. BEWARE Sag. 
CHUCK WOODING Congratulations on your new modeling job. Sears Boys Wear will never look the same! All those endless Interviews and job search1ng 1s over -­you ve found your ideal job. They re right, you do look like ROBERT REDFORD! 
SSAB Bocci picntc lhts Sat. at 2:00 be­tween lakes. Cost $2.00 for ptzza and tee­cream. (Come even 1f we dldn"t contact 
you.) Bnng bocct balls II Semper Bocc1.. 
Yea, yermuthertoo. Love.andK1ssesJ1m and Marylyn X 
Hey ya II, It's lime lor the Better Bass Show. wtlh JP Keyes. amatuer angler Today. Michael T Kelly ts a-gotn to il­lustrate his quas1-brilliant technique for langosta hunttng. Ttmmy P wtll probably fall tn the ocean-but that's not unusual. And Jorge. the Boat Ntpple, wtll worry about ·getting caught, and cry because we never do what HE wants to do. Stay tuned-we II be nght back after we buy the obligatory ten-dozen shnmp. 
Greg E~avac! Welcome to your very own personal! Congradulat1ons!!!!! marilyn 
The blockbuster movte of last summer ts on campus THIS WEEKEND. Starring Chris Reeve. Gene Hackman, and the most ama21ng spectal effects ever. su­PERMAN II. Fri & Sat 7,9:15,11;30 Eng Aud Presented by the K of c·s 
To Mike Bossy x22, Theguywtlhthecurly black hatr and glasses who worked lunch on Thurs. Where have you been hiding? I'd really like to meet wtth you II you feel the same, just drop a personal to ·A Shy Islander Fan· 
LIISA ANSELMI LIISA ANSELMI Happy Birthday you blonde bomber !!I Entoy your 19th!!! 
ND/SMC SENIOR GIRLS NIGHT OUT Tuesday Apnl 20 wtlh FAST FREDDY & THE PLAYBOYS at the Mustc Box, 120 
W. Mtshawaka Avenue. Refreshments and first keg free. No men admttted until t 1:00 p.m. Advance hckets $8.00. on sate now at Atver City Records, 50970 US 31 North 
WALSH GIRLS, THE LAST WEEKS HAVE BEEN AWESOME THANKS FLANNEA GUYS 
WHO'S A MAN S BEST FRIEND? J.,eyl Happy 19th birthday sweaty! 
(19x7 133 human years) We love you ---Mar, Stacy, Michelle. Sue, Emily, Mane. Lynette, Matt, Marsh, Peach. and the Phantom. 
AIDE NEEDED TO PITTS. FOR EASTER BREAK--CAN LEAVE 3/7 OR 3/8 WILL SHARE USUAL (AND UN-USUAL!) CALL MAACI AT 8018. 
ADAM PARSONS IS BENT 
Mike Casstdy--Sorry lhts •s so late, but its a personal anyway. I m sorry!!!!! Loose Lips 
see lhe hams tn LIVEASWUAST on Apnl 6 and 7tn the Ltttle Theatre at SMC. 
This week T tm Neely relives your rock · n · 
roll past on Ths Top 20 Time Tunnel 
Sunday ntght at 6 on WSND AM 64 by 
gotng back to the week ending Apnl 4, 
1964 There was never a list hke th1s one 
before, w1th tncred1ble chart domtnance 
by one act. and there wtll probably never 
be one like 11 aqa1n so listen to this 
h1story-mak1ng chart 
My Dear MISS FANCY,break a leg ton1ght! 
SEE MIKE HOLLOWAYS CREATIONS SLY FOX! 
Meteors Softball Scedule Friday, Apnl 2, 4:30 pm Sonn II South Sunday, Apnl4. 
4:30 pm Dtllon Catch all the exerting 12 inch action at the ACC fields. 
Yogr: No, I don'tlhtnk so. 
To Chns and Pete the Freak, As good Old Jim said about classtheds from the WiND, ··Thts •s the end. the end my friends, the end· Can we laugh? Maybe over the power-hitter somet1me soon? No harm meant. stgned Stuptd. 
APEX Dan Brauweiler Peter Granter Mike Hunkler Bill Keenan Walt Langhe1nrich ROCK AND ROLL Get Ready Stanford 10 PM Tontte 
Gosh! This •s hard. I mean difficunt How do you wnte a personal to someone who already has the Bealles and Bob Dylan stngtng about htm? To be that popular he must really be "tmpotent" 
Hey Aab: 
When do you want to go rowtng? 
Deep Seas Ryan 
p.s. How btg ts your boaf? 
XXX 
Dear Ctndy, Glad you could visrt! Hope to see you 1n 2 years Love, Anne 
rhe Wild Woman of Walsh Hall. 
BETH SULUVAN 
'urns21today. Beth's VISitation hours begin at dawn 1n 202 Walsh. and operators are standtng by to recetve Beth's btrthday phone calls at 6661 CONGRATULATIONS,Sully You're tegalllllaBIIII 
jack and louise are back together aNer 72 days in a finnish prison. jack was ready to cash it in, but louise, fiercely independent and proud as all writers are, made 2100-mile trek from I.a. across the cold west and ths freezing mid-west to deliver jack from his anti­communist ja1lers. ah, love/ today louise returns to s.b. jack will leave again, but he goes to no jail cell! (karen: thanks for your smile and ths warmth of your embrace and the met­table fOY of your long-awaited presence. je t'aime et je t'adore.) love always, a happy espouser of non­classification 
Richard: you don't know what you 
missed. Karen says "hi" and she 
apologizes lor not sending a postcard. 
She says she was. uh. busy. 
How's Judy? Awaiting your reply (but 
not lor very long) 
Don Quixote de Ia Mancha 
FATHER KERIN, BROTHER TOM, AND SISTER JOSEPHINE. DUE TO YOUR MIS-BEHAVIOR. YOUR VOWS HAVE BEEN REVOKED (THIS MESSAGE HAS BEEN BROUGHT TO YOU BY M&C, THE SOCIETY TO PROTECT 
PASQUEAILLAI) 
KATHY HENKEN WILL BE 21 SATURDAY--WATCH OUT WORLD' HAVE A GREAT DAY AUNT ELLER!!! LOVE TERESE AND BOB 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY JANE RUSSI/I Lots of Luv. Chuck. Ill 
Problem t· Gtven a truss Wtlh 6,000 mem­bers of length s wtth a 1 kn force at all totnts and tensiOn T at the end oppostte a lixed ptn, wtthout ustng less than 300 steps and wtlhout solVIng tess than 16 useless equthbnum equat1ons. f1nd the forces of 3 members tn the mtddle of the truss as It accelerates at -kvds aga1nst a fnctton F wtlh coefftctents us and uk. Ftnd F Ftnd a. Ftnd k Ftnd v attime 1 517 sec Finally, find Freshman Year buddtng and change mater to American Studtes 

----------·------0----­
The Observer -Sports Friday,_April2, 1982-page 11 
, 

Don't play after a legend 
PALM SPRINGS --One of my favorite all­timestories concernsthe time Spencer Tracy was the king of the MGM movie lot and he was introduced to the young James Whitmore who was being billed as "the new Spencer Tracy." The old Spencer Tracy sized him up and then allowed, "They tell me you're the 'new' Spencer Tracy. well, let me give you a piece of advice When they come to you wtth the idea of doing 'Dr. jeckyll and Mr. Hyde,' don't." 
Doug De Cinces could have used that same advice. Doug was the young infielder in the Baltimore Orioles organization who was being groomed as "the new Brooks Robinson." The old Brooks Robinson should have come to him and said, ''They· tell me you are the 'new' Brooks Robinson. Well, let me give you some advice: When they come to you to play in Baltimore, don't." . 
The public never forgives an icon-blaster. The public never forgives the ~uy who whips Demrsey, shoots Billy the Ktd, takes Babe Ruth s place in the li~eup, cones after Knute Rockne at Notre Dame. Even the guy who shot down the Red Baron got snubbed in history. Name him, can you? Recall the guy who took Ruth's place in nght field for the Yankees? The heavyweight champions were]ohn L. Sullivan, Jack Johnson, Jack.Dempsey Toe Louis, and Ali, weren't they? Name all the others, can1 you? 
Brooks robinson was almost the only big league ballplayer Baltimore had for the first 10 years of its existence. And he was larger than life. He hit 20 or more home runs a year, he drove in runs with almost every hit he got, but, most of all, he almost made the ground single and the double-down-the-line obsolete. Old­timers swear he leaped in the air to stab line drives six feet over his head that would have been home runs had they got by him. He smiled a lot, signed autographs, and he had the outlook on life of a Little Leaguer to the day he retired. He never heard a boo in his life, he was never injured, and only about a half-dozen major-leaguers played more than he did. ~ lot 
• • . Sportsbriefs 
continued from page 10 
FINAL CHEERLEADER TRYOUTS for the 1982-83 Notre Dame cheerleading squad will be held tomorrow night at 6 
p.m. in the ACC Pit. Everyone is invited.--The Observer 
A FIVE MATCH WINNING STREAK is on the line as the DNotre Dame men's tennis team hosts Ball State at 3 p.m. today at the Courtney Tennis Center. The Irish are 8-4 this spring. This opens an 11-match homestead for Tom Fallon's 
team.--The Observer 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL BEGINS Sunday with the Hall of Fame Game. Last year's runner-up T.P.S. Again will play It 
It's Only Emotional at 4 p.m. on Bookstore court 9. --The Observer 
Sign -ups for  
Sophomore Literary Festival  
being taken at Student Union Office, 2nd floor LaFortune. ALL POSITIONS AVAILABLE Sign-ups April2 -7. ................k"~)..l~i....l.lll............l.L•I•t...........B  


.&mMurray 

Best of Jim Murray 
of people suddenly felt 2o years older the da}' Brooks Robinson retired. Doug De Cinces walked into this haunted house likeSnow White into the witch's castle. Squeamish observers couldn't bear to look. Doug was a nice enough kid. He was good to his mother, he got to church on time, stood at attention for the Flag, and he signed auto­graphs. You would have thought he sold defense secrets the way Baltimore treated him. De Cinces' scalp still prickles at the recollection. ''You could FEEL the hostility,'' he recalled the other day, still shuddering. Guys he didn't even know were glaring at him. ''You ever walk into a room and everybody stops talking?'' he asked. Well, here a whole city stopped talking. At first, it was the little thlnss. A bullet off a bat, a 130-mile-an-hour line dnve went scream­ing by him, visible only to the camera eye. "Brooks woulda had it" screams the fan in the upper deck. "Brooks woulda got two!" corrects the fan behind the dugout. It got to where when the delegation approached Doug De Cinces, he would check to see which one had the rope. Pie Trayner couldn't have succeeded in that situation. "It was a no-win situation," De Cinces recalled as he sat in the dugout at the Angel's camp here the other day. "If they just introduced my name in a lineup, they'd boo.'' It wasn't as if De Cinces were a butcher. He had as much range as Brooks Robinson, and as much power. He just didn't have the smile. Nor did he have that eeire sixth sense Robinson seemed to have for where the ball was coming 
See Ghost page 13 



(INCLUDESKEGOFBEER, TAP. 50cups,ICE, &SALESTAX)* Your Choice BUD BUDLIGHT, BUSCH, NATURAL, STROH'S 
-\ -­



''WRl! 

TheBeerCo. 

287-1067 

Daily 8:30-4:30 . Sat. 11 :30-l:30 
(NEW CONVENIENT HOURS) 
MichelobMich light 540.00 Heineken 566.00 
*(Doesnotincludeanydepositcharges) 
..Il, ·'~111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

~-----~-----~ -~~­
---------~-~-~~~~-----­
Hockey banquet 
Higgins, Dotnan named captains 
By Michael Olenik Sports Wn'ter  Daugherty. Poulin's gracious acceptance typified the manner in which the senior has carried  was the announcement that Doman and John Higgins will serve a co  
The  1981-82  Notre  Dame  himself  throughout  his  four  captains for the 1982-83 season  

-
~ 

It's that time ofy_ear again.first baseman Pete Rose ofthe Philadelphia Phzllies, who is sporting eyeglasses this season, wzll be~-, looking to become the second-leading hitter in major league history. [AP photo] 
hockey team was honored fittingly last evening at the annual Blue Line Club Banquet held in the Monogram Room of the ACC. To say the least, the ceremony was colorful. 
With Mike Collins at the microphone as the Master of Ceremonies, as assortment: of distinguished and not-so-distinguished awards were presented to team members before a crowd that included parents, Blue Line Club members and the genc=ral public. 
Irish co-captain and Hobey Baker finalist Dave Poulin left with the most prestigious hardware, as he gathered m the Most Valuable Player trophy and the Ed McGauley Memorial Award presented by Blue line Club President Doug years here, and the crowd responded to his efforts by givmg him a thunderous round of applause. 
Others who came away with awards were: Sean Regan for rookie of the Year, Mark Doman for best defensive forward, ] ohn Schmidt for Best Defenseman, ] oe Bowie for Most Improved, Brent chaJ?man for both the ] ohn Whumer Award and the Garfield Award, and]eff Perry for the Student-Athlete Award. 
Chapman's awards were for the worst disposition and the heftiest athlete respectively, and although they were given tonsue-in-cheek, Coach Lefty Smith surely got his message across to the freshman from Toronto. 
A highlight of the evening while Kirt Bjork and Rex Bellomy have been chosen as alternates. 
Smith was presented with a couple of awards that left the crowd in laughter, especially after Poulin, Schmidt, Bill Rothstein, Dave Laurion, and ] eff Logan read aloud a plaque that featured a collection of ''Leftyisms'' that were remembered through their four years. 
In all, it was a night of good food, good fun, and a touch of emotion that wrapped up the most successful hockey season in the school's history in fme fashion, and it was the proper tribute to the best senior class that has ever donned a Notre Dame hockey jersey. 

SAT., APRIL 10 7:30P.M. Notre Dame A.C. C. 
Admiss1on: $7.50 (lower arena)· $6.00 (bleachers) 
$2.00 01scount Youths (12 & under) & Semor CitiZens 
$2.00 off also NO SMC Students -Faculty -Stoff 
Tickets on sale A.C.C. Box Office 9am -Spm 
i\niglfts nf <ttnlumbltli 
sponsors a 
SECOND AND THIRD DEGREE 
Sunday, April4 at 12 noon 

Golfteam tops Olivet and V alpo 
By Bob Castello Course. The Irish team total Sports W n'ter was 371 to Olivet's 408. Ferlmann fired a 
Sparked by the performances one-under-t>ar 70 to pace Notre of junior Stoney Ferlmann and Dame to Its second straight sophomore Frank Leyes, the dual match victory of the Notre Dame golf team downed season. Leyes posted a score of Olivet yesterday afternoon at 72. 
the Burke Memorial Golf The weather yesterday was 
... Tourney 
continued from page 12 
Cooz -Bob Keenahan and Paul Mazanec are the only remainders from the WEBB's teams that won the Interhall championship for Howard Hall for three straight years. Keenahan was Mr. Bookstore two years ago, when WEBB's went to the Final Four. This year Keenahan is again playing with his Howard teammates. You can be sure that these guys will play team basketball, with everyone handling the ball. 
T.B. Express II · Fereshman football players ] oe Howard, ] oe ] ohnson and Jay Underwood highlight this team. Roommmates Howard and ] ohnson have received a reputation amons campus hoopsters as betng -~ tough combination to beat. The ~-10 Howard will amaze everyone with his leaping ability. 
tie -] ames Brady and the Washington Bullets and john Belushi Takes the Pepsi Challenge-As is the tradition, the fintil ranking_ goes to the team with the best printable name. Believe me, there are some names that are hilarious, but I doubt that you 'II read them in The Observer. 
much more pleasant than that of the previous day when the Irish defeatedValparaiso despite winds gusting up to 20 miles per hour. Notre Dame topped the Crusaders by 15 strokes -391 to 406. 
Senior ~Bob Horak led the Irish as he shot a 74. F erlmann totaled 76 and sophomore Dave Pangraze 77. 
"For Bob Horak to shoot a 74 under these conditions is phenomenal,'' said coach Noel O'Sullivan, "and Stoney's 35 on the back nine is also super. " 
Tomorrow at noon, Notre Dame will take on the team from Tri-State University at the Burke Course. The trojans will provide formidable competition as they have lost only one letterman from their 1980-81 squad which fmished with a 5-1 record and four ftrst-place conference titles. 
''The top seven golfers are experienced,'' said coach Bill San Giacomo of his seven returning lettermen. ''They all score in the low to high 70's. We're balanced, talented and proven winners.'' 

-Complete 2 years ofROTC in six weeks. -Compete for a 2-year Arn;ty ROTC scholarship.. -Obtain Advanced ROTC standing. -Basic Camp Pay: $600.00. -Recieve S 100 per month while enrolled in ROTC. -Graduate as a Second Lieutenant. -Entry dates are between May 17thand July 12th. 

TO QUALIFY 
. ===--;

-You must have two years of college remaining. (Either graduat~e or undergraduate) 


THE OAR HOUSE! 
i 

• Beer
-You must be at least 17 years of age and under 30 years of age when commissioned. 
Open till l

• Liquor
(Scholarship applicants must be under 25 Years of age on June 30th of calender year 
3:00am!!!

• Carry out
scheduled for commissioning) 
-SINGLES BAR For Further Information Call: -BOOZE &DANCING Major Bob Mcllhargie 2 7 2 • 7 8 I 8 239-6264/6265 U.S. 31 North 
l.!:::=============================================::!.JI__l!..bloclt~utho(Holidaylnn) 
The Observer-Sports Friday, April 2, 1982 -page 13 
... Ghost 

continued from page 11 
from next. Ofcourse, neither did anyone else in the game. Sparky Anderson, from whom he stole the 1970 World Series, turning about a dozen doubles into double-plays, once swore an angel whispered in Brooks Robinson's ear before every pitch: "Get ready--move two feet to the left, and jump." There were people who couldn't recognise Brooks Robinson unless he were horizontal. 
It all came to a head one day when 53,000 people crowded into Memorial Stadium in Baltimore. Oh, not for the pennant race, although this was close. It was "Brooks Robinson'' They gave their favorite son a car, a boat, and waves of love. But the manager gave the ~love to his successor. "They will ktll me!" Doug De Cinces protested. "Listen!" Manager Earl Weaver told him. "We're in a pennant race, not a historical pageant!'' 
The record shows De Cinces hit a home rin thatday to help beat Boston and push them out of the pennant race. "I felt like 10,000 pounds of pressure were taken off me,'' he recalls 
(c) 1982, Los Angeles Times 
Packer, Bender almost spoil tourney 
Settle down and enjoy yourselves. folks, it'll he at least eight months hdore you have to listen to Gery Bender and Hilly Pa~.:ker a~ain. 
When tht· NCAA basketball tournament ~:arne, merci­fully, to a dose Monday night, the first of several CBS Superhype seasons did the same. Bender and Packer managed to make tht· games a chore, reaching new lows with Monday night's broadcast. 
There wt·re bright spots in the network's coverage of college basketball this season, hut they were mainly technical. CBS managed to provide the viewers with excellent spedal camera work. Time and again, players were isolatt•d on imponant plays, and replays offerred a unique view of the action. 
Overall, the games "looked" good. The major 
problem was that they "sounded" awful. 
Bender cmbarasst·d play-by-play men everywhere. In 
an age where intelligence is often a trademark -Dick 
Iinberg has a Ph.D. from Indiana -Bender sounded like 
a last-minute replacement. His lack ofknowledge about 
the game was exceeded only by his penchant for 
overusing cliches. 
How many times did we hear this exchange? BENDER: floyd and Worthy -the two men from Gas­tonia... PACKER: These guys did not go to the same high school... HENDER: But they did go to the same church... PACKER: They grew up about two miles from each other... BENDER: That's right. They're both from Gastonia ... 
The whole thing sounded like an ad for the Gastonia Chamber of Commer~.:e. 
Bender told us how Pat Ewing was "a tower of Mrength," that john Thompson was "a giant of a man," that the lloyas displayed "street savvy." and that Smith was "always a hridesmaid. but never a bride." In the past, to be honest, he's been worse. And Monday night his horrible performance was overshadowed by the on­ly real surprise of the night. Billy Packer was vehement­ly cheerleading -against an ACC team' 
The whole country became accustomed to Packer's Tobacco Row bias when he worked with NBC, and ex· peeted mort· of that Monday. What a shock. 
"Pat Ewing runs better than any big man in the country." "Pat Ewing has a better t(>llow-through on his shot than any big man in tht· country." "Pat Ewing hlocks shots better than any big man in the COUntf)·." "Pat Iiwin~ comes out on defense better than any hi~ man in tht· country... "Pat Ewing ties his shoes t:1ster than any big man in the country." Spare us. 

Packer felt a need to analyze everything that hap­
pened in the game. I half expected to hear: 
BENDER: We'll be back after this commercial. 
PACKER: Yes, Gary, and here's why we're going to a 
commercial right now. Sec, in order for the network to 
profit from an adventure such as this, they have to sell 
commercial time. Sponsors agree to pay... 
Apparently, it's going to take Billy awhile to get un­
wound, too. Wednesday night he coached an all-star 
game in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Near the end of the game, 
he came over to the table during a time-out and ranted 
and raved about an official's call. But he wasn't com­
plaining to the officials, he grabbed a microphone away 
from Dick Enberg and was telling the viewers. 
That's a true story, and one that prompted Bobby Knight, who was doing the color commentary, to say: "We ought to get Billy involved in professional wres­tling-he sure yells good enough to make it big." 
Typical of Packer's work was Saturday's criticism of Digger Phelps. He has as much right as anyone to object to Phelps's charges, but he should have checked his facts. 
"It's an unfortunate situation," he said of Phelps's 
revelations. "Digger's timing wa~ bad. It's unt(>rtunatc 
that he came in here, made all these allegations, and 
didn't even stay for the coaches' convention. This is the 
place to work out problems such a~ those, and Digger 
should have hung around to help the coaches come to a 
solution." 

The truth is, Phelps was in New Orleans for tht· por­
tion ofthe convention that dealt with recruiting, as well 
as with matters such as the shot-clock proposal. He left 
before the awards dinner -and then only to recruit 
Harold Pressley in Connecticut. 

"Digger was telling the truth," said Howard Cosell in 
yesterday's Obsen1er, "a process Billy Packer is some­
what unfamiliar with." 

That may a bit harsh, but Packer has no excuse in this case. He owes Phelps an apology. 
Maybe a little humility wouldn't hun all the way around. The jump to CBS, and the resulting big-buck contract, seem to have convinced Packer that no one knows as much about basketball a~ Packer himself ­and that everyone is dying to share that knowledge. 
It just isn't so. If anything, Packer distracted his lis­teners Monday night, and, along with Bender, wa~ one of the very few flaws in a cl;~ssic game. 

ted by: Botre Dame • Thursday performance for Seniors only : : by special arrangement with the : • Senior Formal Committee • 

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•


Rev. •
•

Theodore Hesburgh, •
• TICKETS $3.00 Reserved Seating only •
c.s.c. • •
• on sale starting MON. APRIL 5 •

MOR.,APRIL S 

4pm Student Union Box Office•l st Floor LaFortune Library Auditorium SMC Programming Office • Moreau Hall 
.•··••••••••·•···········••·•·••····••·•••·•••·•·····•·····•···•·· • 
ND Student Players present •• 
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
AprillS-17 Thurs.-Sat. 
8pm •
•
•

Aprill8 Sun. 2pm 
•
•
• 
May I have this dance? Minnesota North Stars' Dino Ciccareli, left, and Winnipeg jet's ]o Mantha look like Astaire-Rogers during a recent NHL game. Winnepeg won the contest, 7-5. [AP photo} 





EASY RIDER 
I ICELANDAIR INTRODUCES
' NEW BARGAIN FARES TOI MORE OF EUROPE.I 
PARIS
WIEMBOURO

I c 
I
I
I
I
I
I
I 
~ 
I
I
I
I
I1 


'581
'499 
ROUIDTRIP
-IDTRIP 
FROM CHICAGO
FROM CHICAGO 
FRIIKFURT
ZURICH 





'557
'599 

ROUIDTRIP 
-IDTRIP 

FROM CHICAGO
FROM CHICAGO 

AU Aptx Far•o: Apnl I· May 14. 19H2. 7-90 doy stoy (7-60 doys Luxtm· 
bour1) S1opovers Pf'Tmlttt>d an both d1rrct•ona.. U day advance purchnr rrqu1rrd Seats hmned. Ask about our low cost Normal. Same Day. and 
I
I
I
I
I
I
I 
I
I
I 
= 
~
= 

Group fares. too ~~ 
ALSO LOW COST CONNECTING SERVICE TO NICE AND AMSTERDAM . 
lcelandair to Lu\embourg. Luxaar or Crossaar connecting serVICe to other destmations. 
I 

• 
Confirmed reservauon. • Free wme with dinner, cognac after. 

• 
Bargain Stopover Tours of Iceland and Luxembourg. • Bargaan car rentals. • Purchase tickets mU.S. • All fares subject to change and 


I 
government approval. 

Srr yuur travel al(rm ur call8001555-12t21or thr toll frer kt"land.a•r number 1n )'our atea. 
' =


ICELANDAIRP I
I:I•J: t:f,J ·IIi/!f.'li 2Z.IZ,JO:I1Jil2tlllll•llll:l•lJI 
The Observer -Sports Friday, April 2, 1982 -page 14 

Irish co-captain, Dave Poulin, was named Most Valuable Player ofthe 1982 Notre Dame hockey team at last night's hockey banquet. Several other awards were presented. See 
Michael Olenic 's story on page 11. [photo by Rachel Blount] 
Cordially inrites JOU to Saturday Morning Brunch 
WITH A DISCOUNT CLIP & BRING AD WITH YOU 
$100

&.mn1 Food Lli1 Srandru Did 
of OFF 
UUNCHHOURS 
PER PERSON

llen./Frl. 11-3 p.allt.l L•.·2 p.111. 
1202 E. JEFFERSON 8 A.M.-1 0 A.M. 
MISHAWAKA, INDIANA F011r p,..., U.lt 
OPEN EASTER SUNDAY 

Riveting and Enthralling••• 
CHARIOTS 
OffiRE 
m lPGl 
Shows: 2:00-4:30-7:00-9:30 
You'll be gladyou............... 
came! \··· : 
lii'l:zoth CENTURY_.•.} 
~FOX FILMS 
Shows: 1:30-3:20 -6:10-7:30-9:46 
, ,

t *Reasonably Pr1ced SHospitablef FEATURING: t •BUFFET...$2.99
t SHot dishes & 15Salad Bar Items. GreatforyournextBusinessMan'slunch
t! •EGG :otk~ay{:i)$~~~:oo
' e BARBECUED BEEF (2) $.95 ,' e CHINESE SAUSAGE (1) $.90 
Track tean1opensoutdoorseason 
ByEARLRIX 
Sports Writer 

This weekend's Texas Relays mark the opening of the outdoor track season, Van Pearcy's first var­sity competition at Notr Dame, and the chance for the Irish to break an­other school record. 
Steve Dziabis, Van Pearcy, Tim Cannon andJim Moyar comprise: the Irish Distance Medley team that will compete against 19 of the best dis­tance medley teams in the country on Friday and Saturday. Among the teams competing will be the indoor national champions University of Texas-El Paso, SMU, Baylor, Drake, 
Minnesota, and Iowa State. 
"Jim Moyar will be anchoring the mile against 9-time NCAA champion Sulaiman Nyambui," says Irish head coach Joe Piane. "It's a great meet and it has to be a plus for our recruitng. We definitely can go for the school record in the distance 

IrishQitchingsweeps 
away Valpo 
byALGNOZA 
Sports Writer 

Larry Gallo's Irish baseball squad went west yesterday for a doubleheader at Valparaiso and came away with a sweep of the "pesky" Crusaders. 
We 've had aweek layoff and have hadto rely on battingpractice to keep our hitters sharp. ' 
Not only did the Irish take a pailr to raise their spring record to 6-6, but 
they  did  it  with  3-0  and  2-0  
whitewashes.  "Our  pitching  
dominated,"  said  Gallo. "Bryan  

Smith pitched an especially fine game." 
Smith went the distance in the nightcap, giving up only 2 hits, strik­ing out 8, and walking just one. 
"Our big key right now is pitch­ing," Gallo observed, citing the fact that the Irish have given up only one run in the last 28 innings. "Anytime you put together 28 innings like that you're doing pretty darn· good,"he said. 
Notre Dame won the opener, 3-0, as Bill Matre and BillJaun combined on a four hitter. Matre gave up two of those hits in getting the win and improving his slate to 1-2. Jaun picked up the save, his first of the year. 
r,.,.-m-~-n-~;:-t-0..-R-V~~~;r.~rtt;€l pl~~~~rsh~~~ :~~r:~n:~e;:~~~~
Q Q VQ "1 ' coaches will work on some par-
h l"" tU€S0a" apRil 6th f'OR anyon€· ticular techniques. "The pass rush
t € V '3' ' t-t technique needs to be worked on," t Jnt€R,€St€0 ln PC:~RtiCIPatln(i on n€xt t Blache says. "Also, there are many 
Cl"~ ~ >-. CO 1 h small points that we will con­
t yean S ~s ~vVlSORY UnCI Son t € t centrate on." S€cono f'loon In 1 ... c-ntun€ • Notre Dame's first game is over
t t-K lAtvK • ' five months away. But for Blache and Class 0~ ,'83.....5:30 t Roberts~nkl,tho~~Wfi~e monthswillgo
t 
very qmc y. e re a 1ong wayt 84.....6::?0 t from being ready," Blache says. A '85.....8:00 j Thank goodness the first game is a 
-

~----------~-----~~~~ 
,-:-~--------.....~---~----~---; .................................t 
t · ~ GREAT WALL I 10%0FF t i AllCOTHMajors : 
I Chinese 11. American Restaurant I AMERICAN DINNER I • and Prospective Majors : ' { &.Cocktail lounge car'!IOutAuaiJable l (excludes Specials &Buffet) t : : t Happ1J Hour 5:00-7:00 pm Mon.·Sat. I WITH THIS COUPON t i Anyone interested in film and Video courses +
t Banquet roon~< auailable Banquet S group rates auailable I ' + 
t Best Chinese sAmerican Food in Town I Also FREE Coffee or Tea t •Mass Communication and/ or Speech Communication, :
I with dinner t : or wishes to discuss the possibility of a major : I (WITH couPoN) t + or a double major in these areas should come to •
L___.:,x,:R:=.=!L.!.o~g! ___J. i 
HOURS: Mon.-Thurs.: 11:30a.m.-lO:OOp.m.  t &  ++  
sFri.&sat. .......ll:Joa.m.-ll:oop.m. un ............... 4·9p.m.  '·t  •.+  
II Ill  r.~  t :  

1! 't + 
t -·
~~~~~i;~~~wv.south ' + 
t e BOILED OR FRIED DUMPLING (8) $2.95 t :
Roseland 

• (Pot stickers) nexttoRandall'slnn .,.E • 
, · -, • 
t SWEET &SOUR PORK OR CHICKEN $3.95 272-7376 -' + 
Crusaders 

Chuck Tasch spearheaded an eight hit Irish attack in that first game, as he went 3-for-4 with one RBI and and one run scored. Tim Prister also collected a hit and 2 RBI's. FreshmanJohn Deasey picked up a base hit in his first game of the year since trading in his hockey stick for a baseball bat. 
In the second game, Tasch knocked in the only runs of the game, one on a sacrifice fly and one on a ground out. 
The Irish offense was aided by 5 stolen bases on the day out of 7 at­tempts. Dan Szajko swiped three of those himself and banged out two hits as well. 
"We're not hitting like we were in Oklahoma," Gallo noted, referring to the recent Irish road trip over spring break. "We've had a week layoffand have had to rely on batting practice to keep our hitters sharp. That's a lot different than facing the real thing." 

Gallo, however, expects no proloned offensive famine. "Our hit­ters will come around." 
This weekend the Irish will take to the road once again. They must face the Hoosiers from Indiana in a Satur­day doubleheader before taking on the Bulldogs from Butler in a single game on Sunday. 
Taking the mound on Saturday for Notre Dame will be junior right banders Steve Whitmyer and Bill Stonikas. The next Irish home game 

• will be April 10 against Purdue Uni­versity. 
medley." 
The Balance of the team will travel to USA Track and Field As­sociation Regional Championships at Indiana State. Senior tri-captain Paul Doyle is out with a strained ac­hilles tendon and will be sorely missed. He injured the tendon in set­ting school records in the decat­halon and pole-vault at the Domino Pizza relays two weeks ago. 
"There will be as many as 20 schools there," says Piane,"most notably Indiana State, Illinois State and ourselves. We want to get some good early-season performances." 
Some people to watch for will be 
Bill Ribera in the intermediate 
hurdles, John McCoughlan in the 
high hurdles, And Ed Juba in the 
steeplechase. Jim Tyler and Tim 
Macauley will run both the 1500 
meters and half-mile. Ed Juba will 
run the steeplechase. Jacques Eady 
and Mitch Van Eyken will run the 
400 meters. Greg Bell will compete 
in both the the long jump and 100 
meters. 
Notre Dame's discus and javelin throwers will have their first chance to show what they can do. Frank Rie­ly, Mike Barrett, and Dan Falgstad will toss the discus. Gerge Petras and Pat Doyle will throw the javelin. 
,,,job 
Continued from page 16 

Blache plans on arriving at four starters, and then going from there. "We want to have our four best players starting,., he says. "The defensive line positions are similar enough that we can decide on posi­tions later. Eventually we will do a lot ofcross-training. 
"I want to know that if one of the starters have to leave the game, that our fifth-best player can fill the spot whether it's one ofthe tackles or one ofthe ends." 
Robertson echoes this idea. "The 
guys are not engaged in vertical 
competition," he says. "They're 
trying to prove that they are the best 
players." 

the departmental offices on the dates 
i 

indicated for majors. •
+

Advt'st'ng&Regt'stratt'on +
• 

Mon., April5-Seniormajors-ND i Tues., April6-Seniormajors-SMC + Wed., April7-Juniormajors-SMC + Thur., April8-Junior majors-ND :. 
T A il13--So h . -ND 
ues., pr p .maJors • 
Wed., April14-Soph.majors-SMC :
: ..................................
~---~----------------------.J 
The Observer ..~===================== 
Friday, April 2, 1982 -page 15



Weekend 
Michael Molinelli
Molarity 
JDJt\JINC:, us IN STVPIO IS Clii\O{B ·: A C:Q.1C.H WHO HAS A4/P 



HlfJ P/..,A,Yf:R5 R>RTH£ 1CN YeAR'?. 
WllYf' 

Doonesbury 

HE:L, TilER£~ BIG, 
Blk.K5 UP FlJff 6R-1 B5 I 
YOU uOTIA !>CJ IT IF 'yf)U WANT Tl) SORVIVC:. 

~--------------~ 


Sayman ~ndon the day offools, 
we were taken for such., 
HE~ l-lfll, HEY SIMON 
HEY YEAHMAN
00 YOU \./ANI SOME CHEESE ? ~~~ 1111 llol) 
FER SHER 

/ ~ ) 



The Daily Crossword 
© 1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 412/82 All Rights Reserved 

Campus 
Friday, April 2 
•Convention, 
Regional Intercollegiate Sociology Convention, O'Shaughnessy Hall, 38 student and faculty speakers, including Visiting Professor Otto Maduro, University of Merida, Venezuela, Sponsored by Sociology Department, S8 

•I2:
I 5 p.m. -Lecture, Energy ESP: A Renewable Future, Elizabeth Charlton Moore, Rm. I 05 Saint Mary's Science Building, Sponsored hy TLC 

• 
3 p.m. -Tennis, Notre Dame Men vs. Ball State, Courtney Courts 

•3:30 
p.m. -Lecture, Knowledge, Conviction, and Value, Bernard Williams, Library Audiorium 

•4 
p.m. -Meeting, Spanish Club Tertulia, Base· ment ofLa Fortune, Sponsored by Spanish Club 

•7 
p.m., 9 p.m. -Film, The Story ofAdele H., Car· roll Hall , Sponsored by SAPB, S1.00 

•7 
p.m., 9:15 p.m., II:30 p.m. -Film, Superman II, Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored hy Knights ofColombus, SLOO 

•7:30 
p.m. -Jazz festival, 24th Annual Collegiate Jazz Festival, Stepan Center, S7. 50 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, Seven Beauties, Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by COTH, S1.00 

•s 
p.m. -Spring concert, Our Spring Concert, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Sponsored by ND/SMC Dance Theatre, S2. 50 


Saturday, April3 
•10:30 
a.m. -Seminar, Birtline, Canco, Natural Family Planning, Carroll Hall, SMC, Sponsored by SMC Right to Life 

•5:15 
p.m. -Mass, Rev. David E. Schlaver, C.S.C., Sacred Heart Church 

•6 
p.m. -Cheerleadlng Tryouts, Finals for the I982-83 Cheerleading Tryouts, ACC Pit 

•7 
p.m., 9:I5 p.m., 11:30-Film, Superman II, Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Knights of Columbus, SI.OO 

•7 
p.m., 9 p.m. -Film, The Story ofAdele H., Car· roll HaJJ, SMC, Sponsored by SAPB, HOO 

•s 
p.m. -Concert, Our Spring Concert, O'Laughlin Auditorium, SMC, Sponsored by ND/SMC Dance Theatre, S2.50 


Sunday, April4 
•8:45 
a.m. -Mass, Rev David E. Schlaver, C.S.C., Sacred Heart Church 

•I
0: I 5 a.m. -Mass, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Sacred Heart Church 

•I2:30 
p.m. -Mass, Rev. John Fitzgerald, Sacred Heart Church 

•6:45 
p.m. -Meeting, Cila General Meeting 

•7:I5 
p.m. -Vespers, Rev. Theodore M. Hes­burgh, Sacred Heart Church 

•s 
p.m. -Festival, International Students Fes· tival, Wa.~hington Hall, Sponsored by ISO 

•s 
p.m. -Recital, Piano, Faculty Recital, Clayton Henderson, Little Theatre 


T.V. Tonight 



I H£,A,R HE EVEN BUY~ HJS WIFt:: A NEW {)R£55 APTE.R EVERY TIH£ 7HEY HAKe LDVE 
by Jeb 's Section 
HEY PADRE! SMELLS LIKE 6000 STUFF BUT WHERE 1 D YA ' 
GET THE '-lEW PLATE~ 


ACROSS 1 Brazilian dance 6 ·Islamic 
ascetic 11 Fed. agency 14 More frigid 15 M.Zola 16 Bled, as 
color 17 Donnybrooks 19 Silkworm 20 Caterpillar 
shelter 21 Biblical 
30 Prop 32 River Into the Seine 33 Lamenta· 
tions 34 Costa 37 Shake­

(hurry) 38 Chill con­39 Method 40 Actress 
Charlotte 41 Word with Highland 42 Basted 
preposition 43 Smart 22 Newspaper 45 Camera 

articles components 24 Colleen 46 Right away 26 African fly 48 Trading 27 Working center 
milieu 49 Unfettered 
Thursday's Solution 

e/2182 
50 Turtle-like 52 Hipbones 56 Carpenter, 
for one 57 Transports· 
tlon term 60 Edible fish 61 Tier 
designation 62 Inward 63 European 
beetle 64 Metric quart 65 Residue 
25 -In the 
hole 26 Melody 27 Sharif 28 FDR'sdog 29 Buccaneer 30 Like some 
humor 31 Pealed 33 Principal 35-fixe 36 Fourposters 38 Museof 
history 39 Says 41 Controlled 
by destiny 42 Pulpit talk: abbr. 
44 Medical personnel: abbr. 
45 Greensward 46 Tartan design 47 Sonata movement 48 Poet 
Clement 50 Irish clan 51 Sly side 
glance 53 Thin strip 
of wood 54 Dies­55 Attaches 58 Troy, NY 
college letters 59 Ms. Arthur 

DOWN 1 Strain 2 Field 3 Attitude 4 Describing 
some brows 
5 Sandy's sound 6 Bouquet 
elements 
7 One of a lovely Latin trio 
8 Before watt or cycle 
9 Ailing 1 0 Fights back 11 Foul shots 12 Injures 13 Cookery 
pjant 18 English river 
23 Hawllshaw 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. !O:OOp.m. 
ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
!2:00a.m. 12:30a.m'. 

28 Open All Night 34 Wall Street Week 16 NBC Movie: "let's Do It Again" 22 Dalla5 28 The Phoenix 34 Creativity with Bill Moyers 34 Inside Story 22 Falcon Crest 
28 Strlkc: Force: 34 Non·Fiction Television 16 NewsCentc:r 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Nc:wswatch 28 34 The Dick Cavett Show 16 Tonight Show 22 NBA Ba.~kcthall 28 ABC News Nightlinc: 34 Captioned ABC News 
28 Saturday Night Live 16 SCTV Comedy Show 

Amm1L11®WGD G17~ 2'..-~ ~lm~®ill rn~'~~\ irGED~~~~rm~lUiew~~ 1 ~~.i, 
·-----·-.. -·----------­
-~ ·---·~-­


: f'

Snorts 
~· --~----------·~--· -------~-­~~------~--------­
-

Blache, Robertson face tough job 
By DAVE DZIEDZIC Robertson expands on this idea. 
Kevin Griffith, who saw the most Associate Sports Editor "A great deal of evaluation is in­action of last year's defensive volved," he says. "We must 
linemen, is being held out ofcontact Greg Blache, by his own admis­determine the skills and abilities of 

in the spring drills. Griffith is. cur­sion, has his work cut out for him. each player. This may result in rently a senior, but has a year of Blache, who coached the of­switching some people around." "If he were
eligibility remaining.
Some switching has already been

fensive backs in his first season at able to hit," Blache says of Griffith, 
Notre Dame last year. has moved to done. In an attempt to utilize his "he would be at one of the tackle 
quickness, junior-to-be Tim Mar­

the other side of the line of spots. But we'll have to wait until the 
scrimmage for next season. His new shall will be tried at nose tackle. 
end of spring workouts in order to job is to turn a much-maligned Irish Senior-to-b Bob Clasby, who played evaluate where we need him." defensive line into a respectable unit nose tackle last season, will move in­Several players are in the running to Marshall's vacated contain tackle
with a formidable pass rush. for the starting defensive end job. 
"We definitely have a lot of work spot. Junior-to-be t John Autry started at to do," Blache says. "It's difficult to the position last season. But class­be optimistic at this point. We're mate Mansel Carter and sophomore­
Spring Football '82

very far from where we need to be." to-be Mike Golic will put in their 
Luckily, Blache does not face this bids for the spot. Herculean task alone. He is assisted Carter received a lot of attention by Jay Robertson, who spent the past "Tim possesses great quickness when he arrived in 1980, but has yet two seasons as a receiver coach at and has a knack for making things to make a big contribution to the 
the University of Wisconsin. happen," Blache says. "That quick­defensive line. "The court is still out 
ness is of more use to us at the nose

Previously, he was the defensive on Mansel," Blache says. "He has a coordinator at Northern lllinois. lot of natural ability. and he is
tackle. If it doesn't work out, we can always switch back." 

Basically, Robertson will handle working very hard. "He only played the interior linemen while Blache one year of high school football
Robertson explains the role ofthe nose tackle: "The nose tackle uses a

works with the defensive ends and (basketball was his first sport), so 
different technique depending on

outside linebackers. he's still learning a lot of the tech­
the particular situation," he says.

Although the defensive line has niques.""'He can either be an anchor,
been blamed for many of Notre Golic saw considerable playing
;attempting to keep the linebacker

Dame's overall defensive problems, time in the interior line last season,
free by clogging the middle of the

Blache says that there will be no but is being tried at the end spot this 
ooffensive line, or he can be active by 

change in the general system. spring. "Golic started slowly, but 
deviating from the middle."

"The system is not the problem," had a good practice on Wednesday," he says. "Our main task in the spring Junior-to-be Jerry Weinle and Blache says. "He still does some is to find out who our best players sophomore-to-be Tony Leonard are crazy high school things, but no­are and where they should be listed as the back-ups at the nose 
thing that a little discipline can't cor­_Spn'ng football p~actice continues tomorrow on Cartier playing. Once we determine who tackle. rect. His reactions are still those of a Fzeld. Dave Dzzedzzc takes a look at the defensive line our best players are, we can fashion Sophomore-to-he Mike Gann, tackle. We'll see how well he 
situation at nght. [photo by Rachel Blount] our plans to what they do best." who saw considerable action responds to the change."toward the end of the 1981 cam­
One change Blache intends to paign, is penciled in as the first string implement concerns the platoonflip tackle. "I've been very

World's largest system used on the defensive line 
impressed with Gann," Blache says. 
last season. ''Platooning is not a part "He's a long way from being a very of my philosophy," he says. "I want good tackle, but he tries to do exact­my four best players out there all the 

• Bookstore Basketball expands again 
ly what we ask of him. That's 90 per­time. 
cent ofthe battle." 
"Of course, there are pros and 

If he had only known. 
Behind Gann are junior-to-be cons for both (platooning and not 
ago, Hoefer, Steve Keane and sophomore-to-be
Ten years Fritz one of the platooning). I happen to believe that organizers of An Tostal, decided that the spring Otto Hilbert. platooning is not the way to solve festival needed a new event. He decided to start Clasby's backups at contain tackle 
I 
problems." a campus basketball tournament to "feature the are sophomore-to-be Jay Under­style of ball which is characteristic of games wood and junior-to-be Chris Boer­See Job page 14 here.'' ner, a converted tight end. Little did he know that the Bookstore captain of the St. Bonaventure team that won Basketball Tournament, which began with 53 the 1977 N.I.T. As it that isn't enough, Kelly 
teams, would become the world's largest coerced Tim Koegel into playing. KElly coached 

Lacrosse teatn doUJns 
I 
basketball tournament. the champions last year, and may very well play That's right, the world's largest. In its ten on the top team this year. years of existence, Bookstore has grown by TAke This Ball and Shove It II -This team 

Michigan State byfive
exactly 400 teams, and is now larger than went to the Elite Eight last year, but lost to Hoosier Hysteria. Head Over Heels. This season they are woithout 
quickly when he scored on a

By MIKE SULLIVAN 

with 453 teams participating, it is tough to first team all-Bookstore player Mike Frawley, Sports Writer fastbreak. He made it 2-0 when Pear­choose a Top Ten at this early stage. Any who is playin~ with Tim Healy (of Head Over sall hit him cutting in front of the number of teams could emerge from the pack to Heels). But Mtke Mitchell should prove to be an goal. Fittingly, he capped off the 
adequate substitute for Frawley. Sophomore The Irish lacrosse team battled scoring with a breakaway goal with
surprise even the most knowledgable campus 
the wind and Michigan State on less than a minute to play in the
hoopsters. I've done my best to listen to the football J?layer Mike Kelley (6-5, 250) adds 
strength mside. Wednesday and came away with a 9-game.
Grapevine in order to determine the favorites. Here's what I've come up with: RedRummers -im Healy, former walk-on for 4 victory over the Spartans at East O'Leary singled out the play of 
T.P.S.Again · Probably the most recognized Digger Phelps, returns for yet another Lansing in the team's Midwest freshman defenseman Justin Shay 
Some people wonder if Healy, Lacrosse Association opener. and senior defenseman and co­
Bookstore team on campus, T.P.S.Again returns tournament. a all five players from last year's squad which lost second-year law student, has hung around just The Irish, who normally fall be­captain Dave Lewis. He also was 
hind early, scored the first two goals pleased with the play ofLevesque on
to Re-Classified... in the finals, 22-20. Many to play Bookstore. Last year, Healy's team lost 
to Re-Classified in the semi-finals. of the game this time and the Spar­attack.
people believed that the team would have emerged as the champions if Re-Classified had All-Bookstore selection Bill Copeland is gone, as tans never caught up as the teams Midwest lacrosse power Ohio not picked up Kelly Tirpucka during the well as 'Tab' Baldwin, but Healy picked up struggled in the strong winds that Wesleyan is next on the schedule 
Frawley to help out. blew down the field, making it very (Saturday) for the Irish. O'Leary is
tournament. Sophomore football players Stacy difficult for the offenses to get un­not sure his young team is ready to
Toran, Greg Bell and Mansel Carter join Duane Macn''s MonkeyMen Another varsity Dickens and Tim Collins, last year's Mr. basketball player, Gary Grassey, leads this tracked. beat Ohio Wesleyan on the road this Bookstore (given to the best non-jock in the team. These guys are playing in their fourth Although the Spartans, who early in the year. 
tournament). This squad is most unpopular with tournament together. They reached the Sweet finished last in their division last "It is too early," says O'Leary. "We the maintenance crew, who must ·replace the Sixteen each of their first two years. But Tim year, never were really in the game, have not yet matured. There will be bent rims and broken backboards that these O'Connor, who Grassey says "may be the best Irish coach Rich O'Leary compli­two or three guys who stand out at guys cause. non-varsity player on campus," Jlayed both of mented their efforts. times, but the rest ofthe team won't. Full House -A year ago, these guys called those years. O'Connor was force to sit out last "They were very aggressive and We also need some more consistent themselved T.B.Express. They lost in the year and will have to watch from the sidelines very competitive," Hunter said. scoring from the first line of midfiel­
"They also were very good athletes. ders."
quarterfinals to the eventual champions. This again, as he is recovering from a broken back suffered while skiing. They played good defense, but they STICK CHECKS -The Irish midfiel­
may be the fastest team in the tournament, 
didn't have much offense." der corps has-been thinned out
featuring Greg Williamson, Dave Duerson and 
Assassins · Probably no team in the tournament 
Sophomore attackman Jerry somewhat by injuries. Senior Mike
Tony Huntrer. They have plenty of height, also. 
will be able to intimidate opponents as easily as 
Levesque led the charge for the Farino was injured last Sunday
John Shaefer, the 6-7 center for the Interhall 
this squad. Senior football players Dean 
Irish, who are now 1-0 in MLA against the Chicago Lacrosse Club
Champion Holy Cross Ho~s, and 6-6 lacrosse 
Masztak and Bob Crable aie joined by classmate sophomore Smith was
league play, by scoring three goals. and Kevin
player Bill Bonde will intimtdate many people in 
Mike Boushka, who starred for Masters of 
Steve Pearsall contributed four as­injured last Saturday against Michi­
the middle. 
Disaster in the Final four last year. But the real 
~ists

Eddie 0 'Rourke and the Travelling Stragglers while Bill Bonde, Mike Lynch, gan. Their status for Saturday's game 
story on this team is senior Curt Bailey, an 
Steve Linehan, Joe Hart, Dan Pace, is not yet known ...The game
-Notre Dame varsity playe Mark Kelly, playing 
all-Bookstore selection last year. They've also 
and Mike Quinn each chipped in a against Ashland College scheduled
in his first Bookstore Tournament, has put 
added Scott Glaeser, a senior from Grace's 
goal. Freshman goalie Rob Simpson for April 19 has been changed to
together quite a team. The main attractin is interhall team. 
made 11 saves. next Wednesday, April 7, at 3:30
assistant coach Jim Baron, who may well be the best player in the tourney. Baron was the See Tourney, page 12 Levesque put the Irish on top p.m. on Cartier Field. 







