I__
, 

VOl. XVII, !'110. 10 ' tht: mdqx-rHknl ~IUdenr rH.~~...papt:r ~-n mg notre dam~.: and ~.lint m.tf) ·., · ' FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 10. 1981 
Israel rejects new Arab Mid-East peace plan 
(AP) -Israel rejected the new ment that ended the siege called for 

all-Arab plan for a Middle East settle­their pullback. ment yesterday and sent its The Fez summit, concluding late warplanes against Syrian anti-aircraft yesterday, produced the first col­missiles in Lebanon for the second lective Arab proposals for peace 
straight day, reporting four more with Israel since the creation of the batteries demolished. 
Jewish state in 1948. Lebanese radio said Israeli jets The plan contained elements long 

also struck Svrian armor positions in rejected by the Israelis: the creation Leballon, further heightening the of an independent, PLO-governed threat of a showdown between the Palestinian state in the Israeli­tens of thousands of Israeli and occupied West Bank of the Jordan 
Syrian troops remaining in that war­River and Gaza Strip, and incorporat­battered land. ing the Arab-populated sector of Sources at the Arab summit con­Jerusalem in that state. ference in Fez, Morocco, said the 
The proposals, as outlined by summit sources, do not explicitly of­
Arab leaders approved Syrian Presi­
fer recognition ofIsrael.
dent Hafez Assad's request to cancel the six-yaar-old Arab League 
In Israel, Prime Minister Menac­mandate for his Syrian hem Begin'"!> spokesman, Uri Porat,"peacekeeping force" in Lebanon, dismissed the summit, saying it wasenabling him to withdraw the d' no different from previous suchtroops. But Israel questioned Assa s 
meetings "and there is no reason to
sincerity."I think this (Syrian readiness to pay attention to it." leave Lebanon) is lip service and Begin has offered limited there is no reality in it," ChiefofStaff autonomy to the 1.3 million Pales­Lt. Gen. Raphael Eytan told Israeli tinian Arabs of the West Bank and army radio. Gaza, insists on ultimate Israeli In related developments yester-sovereignty over the territories, day: refuses to deal with the PLO, and says all ofJerusalem will forever be 

•Secretary of State George P. Israeli. Shultz, testifying before the House Reagan's plan, on the other hand, Foreign Affairs Committee, called call for full autonomy for the ter­for congressional support of Presi-ritories in some kind of association Israel rejected the all-arab West Bank settle-Housing Minister David Levy inaugurated Is­dent Reagan's Mideast peace plan withJordan, and leave theJerusalem mentyesterday and bombed Syrian anti-aircraft rael's West Bank settlement last week. and said he believes there is a issue open to later negotiation. missles for the second straight day. Israeli "reasonable chance" the plan's key ::::==:.aiilii-.lliilllll-----============================-=====================::oo=::=~=--1!11!!il!!:aiBI!I~i!i:ii!IBI­
goals can be achieved 
•The 800 U.S. Marines who helped supervise the withdrawal of Palestine Liberation Organization 

New Senior Bar building opens tonight
guerrillas from West Beirut loaded vehicles onto landing craft in 

By RYAN VER BERKMOES

preparation for their scheduled Senior Bar General Manager The planning and construction of moved walls and made any re-design 
ManagingEditor

departure today from Lebanon. Kevin Woods has a hard time the new building brought members necessary to make the best building 
•Lebanese army forces trying to containing his enthusiasm for the of the administration together with P<>ssible," said Woods. Last year's 
reassert government control over After several years ofplanning, the new building. "This is the best thing several students. Dean of Students General Manager Tim Thompson West Beirut moved into the Pales­new Senior/Alumni Club building that could happen to a senior class," Roemer the
James said primary did much of the preliminary designtinian refugee camp Bourj el­opens tonight at 9:30p.m. says Woods. reasons for building a new bar were work before he graduated in May. Barajneh, heavily bombarded during The new structure stands just The bar's inventory manager, to build a structure that was The new building consists of Israel's June-A'ugust siege. Israeli north of the previous building's Marty Vette!, reflects the feelings of "classy," and to provide a facility three bars. Upon entering, patrons
the people involved by saying that

forces continued to hold their posi­location. Curiosity about the new that did not pose the safety hazards will see a central bar with oak tions in Beirut, however, even building is expected to produce a "the administration and everyone 
of the old building. The structure 


large crowd ofpatrons. has just been fantastic."
though the U.S.-negotiated agree-


Tradingpos 
replaces 


old Moses 
By SONYA STINSON 
Senior StaffReporter 
The Memorial Library's second-floor lobby now boasts an authentic trading post from the New York Stock Exchange in place of the old statue of Moses. 
Notre Dame was one ofseveral institutions v,•hich acquired one of the horseshoe-shaped structures ofbronze and oak after the Exhange converted to more sophisticated equipment. 
Dean Frank K Reilly ofthe Col­lege of Business Administration explained, "We received one be­cause I found out about the gifts when I was at a conference at the University of Texas, which also has a post. I asked where they got 

An authentic trading post from the New York Stock Exchange it and how I could get one for bas replaced the statue ofMoses that used to stand on the second Notre Dame." floor of the library. The post was acquired with donations from 
See STOCKS, page 6
Thomas A. Coleman, '52. (Photo byjill Origer) 
. ­

-..._._.....,____ 
~ 
booths. To the left is a large room that formerly housed the bar had at with an area for a band and dancing. one time been a house and had un­dergone numerous modifications through the years. 
The Senior/Alumni Club, the for­

Senior BarPhotos · 
mal name of Senior Bar, rents the Senior Bar building from the Univer­sity of Notre Dame for $53,000 a 
-seepage 7 year. Each year members ofthe com­ing senior class are given the oppor­tunity to apply for managerial positions. The students chosen then operate the bar as a business with 
Also in this room is a large seating the goal of meeting the University's area and a number oftable-top videorent. 
games. To the right ofthe entrance isWhen the decision was made to another bar with a second dance build the new bar, Roemer met with area and a large conversation pit.
protest when he proposed that the Most of the interior finishing was student managers be supplemented done by local carpenter Bill by a full-time professional manager. 
McCluen. For the past four weeks, However, in Roemer's words, "the McCluen has put in 16-hour days, Senior Class and the current yet he still remains enthusiastic managers impressed me enough to about the project. "This bar is going 
try student management for another to do a good job for the University. year." Current Manager Woods does I'm also extremely proud of the stu­not feel this will pressure him or his dent bartenders, they've made the 
staff in any way. According to difference." Woods, "the co-operation between 
Most of the thirty student barten­all the parties involved has been fan­
ders on the bar staff returned to tastic." 
school seven to ten days early. Since The majority of design work for 
then all have worked without pay in­the bar's interior and exterior was 
stalling sod, fences, wiring, interior handled by two Notre Dame grads decoration, and performingwho worked for Cole Associates, a numerous other jobs. Woods is ob­local design firm. Woods was 
vio~sly proud when he says, "We've 
impressed by the input he was all missed classes, this is the best 
allowed to have in its design. "At my recommendation, the architects See BAR, page 6 



News Brie/§ 
By The Obsen,er ami The Associated Press 
The Notre Dame SecurityDepartment will auc­tion unclaimed property, including several biCycles, at Stepan Cen­ter on Saturday beginning at 10 a.m. A more detailed list ofitems will be available at the Security Office today. -The Observer 
Whitolan College in Walla Walla, Wash., has come to the aid of a prestigious journal that became too expensive for the University of Michigan. The small college has agreed to underwrite the cost of the Philosophy and Literature journal, which features philosophical interpretations of literature. U-M Dearbom spent SS,OOO last year to print about 1,000 copies of the journal, which is published twice a year, but university officials decided it had to be dropped to cut expenses. The journal's founder and editor, Denis L. Dutton, an associate professor ofhumanities at U-M Dearborn, then found new funding at Whitman College. The journal will be printed and distributed by johns Hopkins University in Baltimore. -AP 
,.. 
Some Michigan legislators say it is time to switch from "recession" to "depression" when talking about the economy. The lawmakers, who say high unemployment and in­dustrial uncertainty defy textbook definitions of a recession, are backing a resolution "calling on other states to stop using the term 'recession' and begin using the term 'depression.' "This misnomer (recession) has served to cloud the desperateness of the economy and has served to gloss over the true impact on the American people," the resolution states. "For us to continue to ignore the facts of human misery is a disservice to the American people." The measure was introduced Wednesday by Rep. Rick Sitz, D-Taylor, and 12 co-sponsors. It is before the House Policy Committee. -AP 
Fire broke out in a downtown apartment building in Hagerstown, Md. early yesterday, killing two people and injuring two others, one ofthem critically, officials said. Deputy Fire ChiefSid Mills said the cause of the fire was under investigation. The blaze broke out at 3:48 a.m. in an apartment building adjacent to a tavern and was controlled about 45 minutes later, Mills said. -AP 
Sixteen peoplewere killed and six injured in Budapest, Hungary when an international express train crashed into a bus in the western town of Szekesfehervar, the Hungarian news agency MTI reported yesterday. The dead included eight children, the agency said. It said the accident Wednesday was under investigation. The train engine was derailed and the bus and some railroad cars were reported wrecked. -JtP 
Authorities have decided not to prosecute a Japan Air Lines pilot who crashed his DC-8 into Tokyo Bay because doctors have concluded he was "not of sound mind" at the time, news reports said yesterday. Authorities are expected to investigate whether JAL's management should be held criminally responsible for allowing Seiji Katagiri into the cockpit despite his history ofmen­tal instability, Kyodo News Service and thejapan Broadcasting Corp. reported. They said psychiatrists found Katagiri, 36, was suffering from schizophrenia on Feb. 9 when he reversed thrust on two ofthe plane's engines, causing it to crash into the shallow waters, killing 24 people. Rather than seek an indictment against Katagiri on profes­sional negligence charges, police have decided to try to have him committed, the reports said. Police officials declined to comment on the reports. -AP 
China launcheda satellite into orbit designed to carry out scientific experiments, the official Xinhua news agency reported. China's 12th satellite in as many years "was accurately orbited and is in fine performance," Xinhua said in a briefreport that did not specify what type ofexperiments the satellite was designed to carry out. The last Chinese satellite was launched Sept. 20, 1981. The feat was seen as a demonstration ofa military potential to launch multiple warheads. -AP 
Cramped by slow salesand poor profits, business executives plan to cut 1982 spending on expansion and moderniza­tion 4.4 percent below last year after discounting for inflation, the government reported Thursday. It would be the first decline since the 1975 recession. And it would come in the face of the Reagan administration's big 1981 tax bill that was supposed to spur business expansion and create new jobs. Just three months ago, executives had estimated a 2.4 percent drop in real spending on plants and equipment this year. But Thursday's Commerce Department report said surveys taken in july and August showed plans beingscaled back further. 
Partly sunny today and warm. High in low to mid 80s. Partly cloudy tonight ani.! Saturday with a slight chance of showers.f Lows in the low to mid 60s. Highs in the low to mid 80s. -AP 
l.• 
~~ ---~-------~--------------~~---­
Friday, September 10, 1982-page 2 

ND-SMC Community? 

One of the first things I discovered upon coming to Notre Dame as a freshman was the concept of the brother-sister relationship between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. The only thing I really knew about Saint Mary's before I got here was that it was an all-girls school just down the road from the Notre Dame campus. That was good enough for me. 
But as I began to pick up little bits and pieces of in­formation, and to make observations the way freshmen do, I realized that Saint Mary's was more than just the "all-girls school just down the road." It was actually a major part of what I came to know as the Notre Dame­Saint Mary's community. 
The idea on the surface seemed great: two relatively small, private, Catholic schools set less than a mile apart from each other in a setting where students from either campus were free to interact with students from the other campus not only socially, but spiritually and even academically. It seemed like a perfect way to make life at Notre Dame easier and more enjoyable. 
But somewhere along the line my view of a con­tented, happy relationship between the two campuses began to change. It happened slowly at first, I'm sure. Perhaps a mumbled remark about the lifestyle of"those SMC chicks" or another crack about "those fat 
' 

domer girls" did the trick. technology, or social work; Whatever it was, it was the those majors are offered at start of something that has Saint Mary's but not at Notre really changed my views on Dame. After all, the facilities the actual feelings between and opportunities are the two schools. available to students from What I thought were both campuses; it is a waste derogatory comments com­not to make full use ofthem. ing from those few people Even the food services of who can never seem to get both campuses, those won­along with those different derful little organizations than them has, in reality, whose one goal appears at turned into a major conflict. times to be cost efficiency, What probably began as a do their little bit in making light-hearted rivalvary be­these two schools work as tween the students has one community. Students become an ugly battle. The who travel from one campus 
harmless stereotyping ofthe two schools has changed to needless prejudice ofeach school against the other. 
The prejudice occurs on both campuses and, unfor­tunately, is much more prevalent than I had originally thought. I've seen Notre Dame girls actually walk out ofa room when a Saint Mary's girl walked in and I've seen Saint Mary's girls openly and cruelly insult a Notre Dame gitl in front of her date and many of her friends. 
But it's not the exaggerated expressions of contempt that are the real problem. It's the overall attitude of the students toward each other that is ruining the relation­ship between the schools. 
I would like to think that the ill feelings felt from either side of U.S. 31 were programmed into the stu­dents when they got here and are not the true feelings ofthose involved. Perhaps everyone should take a good look at themselves and at those around them and try to discover their true feelings, free from the influence of prejudice and the temptation to keep the rivalry going. Then maybe, just maybe. we can all start to act like we really are part ofa community. 
The administrations of the two schools have, in their 

_Thenbserver 
The Observatones 
Desig11 Editor... . .. Conductor Rabbit 
/Jesign Assisttlnt ............... Lead Guitar jim 
Layout Staff... ... Auxilliary P~rcussion 
(Tom, P~t~. Maria, Paul) Typesetters ............. Roadtes llruc~ & Tom News Editor...... ....................... Bass Mike Copy Editor..................... Pa11e~ Turner Tim Features Layout .............. Lead Vocals Tari Editorials Layout.. ............ l!ackinR Vocals 
Paul & Valerie Sports Copy Editor ......................... Tuba Ed Typists .................. , ........................ Keyboards 
(Mary Beth, Tari, Paul) Ad Desig11 ...................... Marilyn's Cymbals Photographer ............................ Groupie Jill Guest Appeara11ces..... Whistler's Mother 
Tom the Conversion Kid 
Chuck and His Sax French Horn l>zave Mellophone Monk 
Bruce, I su•ear, It was11't my Idea! 
The Observer !USPS 598 920) IS published Monda·y through Fnda y and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS publ1shed by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col~ lege Subswpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($ i 5 per semester) by wf)\lng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame Indiana 46556 
; 
I ~ 
own way, taken steps toward better interaction across the campuses. Saint Mary's students are allowed to double-major at Notre Dame provided they already have a major at Saint Mary's and their second major is not offered on the Saint Mary's campus. In addition, N T otre Dame students are given the chance to receive teacher certification through classes at Saint Mary's. 
But why not take this last idea one step further? It would seem to be more sensible and would certainly be more beneficial to the students if the Notre Dame ad­ministration followed the lead of the Saint Mary's ad­ministration and encouraged students to take the education sequence, or any other major not offered at Notre Dame, as a double major program through classes at Saint Mary's. Surely this would be advantageous to students seeking jobs in education, nursing, medical 
to another to take classes are 
given the opportunity to eat 

lunch at that campus, provided they meet certain re­
quirements dealing with the time they spend at the op­
posite campus. And with the co-ex program, the food 
services are doing their part to encourage social inter­
action between the schools. 
Hopefully this silly social feud between the two schools will come to a quick end. The feeling of an­tagonism has existed long enough, and ifit is allowed to continue, could permanently damage our relationship with each other, taking away an important part of campus life. If the students can resolve their preprogrammed prejudices and the administrations can learn to use both schools to the best advantage of all srudents involved, this can truly become the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not necessarily represent the views ofThe Observeror its editorial board. 
~ 

In Concert and Beyond ~ 
I 




ILED ZEPPELIN i
I ~ 
~ I
I . ~ 
~TIIE-SONii·BEMAIN5-THE·SAME ~ 
~ Tonight 10pm and 12am $1 ~ ~ in CHAUTAUQUA Ballroom ! · ~ 2nd Floor LaFortune i 
f~ 


I ~~ I 
: A! -'• 'f,, ,I ' )";, ' -'~
! 


... 
The Observer Friday, September.IO, 1982-page 3 
--------------------------------------------------------~ 

Trips, dances 

Hoftnan plans freshtnan events 
By VIC SCIULLI 
Assistant News Editor 
Who ever said that a bored fresh­man should have to spend all of his or her extra time alone or drinking with friends? 
Certainly not Dr. Emil T. Hofman, Dean of the Freshman Year of Studies. And to make sure, everyone from the Freshman Year family has 

Henry Ford II to retire October 1 
Former Ford Motor Co. Chairman Henry Ford II will retire Oct. 1 as an employee and officer of the 
automaker which carries his name, but will remain on the board of directors and serve as a consultant. Ford, who reached the normal 
retirement age of 65 on Sept. 4, retired as chairman in 1980. He became a Ford Motor Co. employee in 1940, two years after taking a spot on the company's board ofdirectors. 
He took over as chief executive of­ficer in 1945 upon the retirement of his grandfather, company founder Henry Ford. 

planned a number of events throughout the year to keep fresh­man on their toes. 
Hofman believes that many fresh­men need special help in adjusting socially and personally to college life. These various activities are planned to give freshmen "another option"-one that is fun but non­intimidating. 
A shopping tour of South Bend was held last Saturday. The four­hour adventure included visits to the various malls and provided an oppurtunity for shopping at several 
stores. Tomorrow evening, the Freshman Year ofStudies will present the first ofthis semester's "Freshman's Other Choice." These performances, to be held in the LaFortune Ballroom, will include a student variety show followed by a dance. . 
This week's variety show will feature talent from upperclassmen, including a Glee Club concert in 
miniature and several acts from last January's Keenan Revue. Following those, variety shows will spotlight freshman talent. 
A square dance will follow the variety show. Astrid Hotvedt and several other members of the physi­cal education department will be present to encourage participation as well as to · give instructions. 
Refreshments will be served. AI· though there will be no charge for any of the performances, tickets must be obtained in advance at the Freshman Year ofStudies office. On-


RIVER CITY RECORDS PROUDLY PRESENTS THE CHARTER BUS TOUR TO: 
-Towno~Mod 
·-Do"'-11 


October s &6, 1982 The Rosemont Horizon 
WHO buses leave Rosemont, Illinois main circle at 
3:45daysofshows

lim1ted"Supply of charter bus trip packages for The Who Concerts are now on sale at River City Records, 50970 
U.S. 31 North, South Bend, Indiana. Call 2n·42-'2 lor further information. 
Pa~kage includn round trip transportation by deluxe 
lnd1&1la Motor Bus Coach, good resei"'Yed seat lo concert 
and refreshments on bus. 

··············R"ivEil..cfrv··R"i~c·oRt>s··ctiA.RriiFfaus·-romr························· ..··· DETROIT LIONS vs. CHICAGO BEARS ! ! ! ! 
This Sunday Sept. 12 Pontiac Sllverdome BuspackagesstillavailableatRiverCity Records, 50970U.S. 31 North,277-4242 

ly 200 tickets will be made available. 
The following morning, buses will depart from the Stepan Center for a picnic on the Lake Michigan Dunes. All 200 tickets for the event have been sold. 
Three freshman date nights have also been planned for this semester. The $8 per couple fee will include transportation from campus to the 100 Center, buffet dinner at the Ice House, a movie, and return transportation. The only stipulation is that both members of the couple must be freshmen. 
Other events include a parents' open house in Stepan Center the morning of the Notre Dame-Miami game, football video parties for the Pitt and Air Force games and a trip to Chicago the day after Thanksgiving. 
Hofman believes that the most 
painful thing a young person can ex­
perience is the feeling of loneliness. 
Inexperience at meeting people 
may make the process of socializa­
tion even more difficult, especially 
in a new situation like college. Hof­
man fears that some freshmen may 
see only the "very conspicuous" 
means of socialization, which in 
most cases includes drinking. Hof­
man hopes to give these freshmen a 
viable alternative. 
Many have wondered what has 

motivated Hofman to become so in­
volved with the freshman class. Said 
Hofman,"The truth really is that I've 
never gotten over being president of 
my senior class." 
t...............................................................................................-.,...............,. ~ CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS!!! . I
;! ACTIVITY FEE FUNDING ~ 
~ ~ Applications for receiving Student Activity Fee Funds ~ 
.J. are now available in StudentActivities OffiCe 
I 
~ 1st Floor Lafortune. II I 
I I . I 
:~ Deadline for applying is Wednesday, September 15. ~ 
..................................................................................................~,.............ill 





VAN LINES 
WEEKEND BUS SERVICE 
Leaves ND Main Circle on the Countrv Sharping Center. 
s 
Fridays 6, 7, 8, 9,I Saturdays 4, S, 6, 7, 
I 

Lt'3VCS sr.tr. Circle 5 minutesI at Grotto on way to SMC, 
t 
a 
I 

r :00 SD ~lain Circle
I 

:05 S'IC
t 
I 
:I 5 University Park Mall, G~ncral (:illCm:l, Sl1opping 
:16 J~remiah Sweeney'sI :IS JMS Pla:a, Artio's lri5h Pub, f-our llappinc::.s Restaurant
s 

:20 Barnaby's .
I 
: 2 s To~n &Collntry Shopping Center. Plitt Theatrt : 30 Ironwood -Edison

I 
: ~ 0 CampusI 


Tl ~: l',\LL SPRltlG 
September 10 -II January 14. 15 17 (Friday only) 21-Z! 2~ (Friday only) 28·19
hl. 

Octobe-r 1-.! February 4-5 
8 (Friday only) 11·12I I IS (f·riclay only) 17-18 Novcmb(>r 5·6 25-26
s I 12 (Friday only) Harch 4-S 19-ZO !5-26
I 

December 3· 4 Apri I 8·9I I 0-11 IS· 16 
i •'
2!-23

I I 29-30 
f7Uatt'S W"Oates

IWI ' e I *No service on home football Saturd~ys, or durin~ fall Break, Thanksgiving 
}
BrcJk, Chri::otm:a:o; Rrt:'ak, Spring Brc;1k, EastC'r Rrcak, or J:inal ::xam l~eeks.
I e I 

; 
Van Lines is sponsored hy the Office of 

t
I k I ~: 

friJ.n·$ o:UU PH · ~tiJnj).!ht Student ,\cti\'itics in conjunct ion with 
t 
Sa turilars 4 ·. oo I'H · ~tidu ight N.D. Student ~ovcr11mcnt/Stt1Jcnt lln~or1.
I e I 

~: SOc Rnun~t Trip. rav :'\~ '\nil t:l·t On The Ru:-;. ·-~·JO AOVt\~Cf:O TIC.:ETSnl Rl'QIIllH'll. ~----·--­
RESTRICTIO~S: ABS<JWrl'I.Y NO Al.f.OilOl.lC nE\"ERAGE~: Oil S~IOKI~~(; ON BUSES. All
dl 
passe-ngers mw::t hC' ~c:JCcJ. 

~: Sll ~!:•in Lircll• • C:rotfo S~IC Cin·tc. 31·~3 to llouglas-Ea~t to SR ~3 -to Hall · Grape tu ~kKinlcy to lliclo.ory to !:dison to "D. 
If ovcrcrowJin~ uCCalrS ~'n l;1~t TUI1 1 hu~ will llack-tracL to locations where students_ st 111 remain. 


.
. 
-·························································································~············ 

An unidentified Army ROTC officer demonstrates rifle tech­niques to ROTC members and freshmen recruits in the library auditorium. The demonstration took place before a ROTC awards ceremony. (Photo byjill Origer) 
hour for Univer:ity Park Hall and~ 
Ill,  II  PH  
8,  9,  10, 11  ~~I  
after  NU  Haln  Circle.  Bll~  Wlll  pick  up  students  

~------­

The Observer Friday, September 10, 1982 -page 4 


Gunmen captured 

Police rescue etnbassyhostages 
BERN, Switzerland (AP) -Red· mail." The government decided to men used their weapons in the helmeted anti-terrorist police send in the police because 12-minute raid which began at stormed the Polish Embassy yester­"negotiations served no further 10:42 a.m. ( 4:42 a.m. EDT), Bern's day, rescuing five hostages and police chief, Marco Albisetti, said.
purpose," he said. capturing four gunmen in a blood· The swift conclusion to the siege Though it was broadcast live by 
less assault that lasted only 12 Swiss televison, the lightning swoop
was hailed as "a total success" by 

minutes. clearly took the embassy's occupiers
Swiss officials, who_ conducted vir­

''I'm overjoyed to be freed. AI· tually uninterrupted telephone by surprise. though 1 am very tired, none of us negotiations with the gunmen, clad Ayouthful-looking man dressed in came to any harm," embassy press in dark green camouflage fatigues a delivery suit deposited at the em­
attache Stefan Piwowar told The As· and armed with submachine guns. bassy's front porch an aluminum sociated Press after the lightning They were led by a 42-year·old case that usually contained food for rescue. former convict, Florian Kruszyk, the those inside. This time it held a stun About 20 policemen wearing gas self-styled "Colonel Wysocki," who bomb, which was detonated by 
masks and bullet-proof vests claimed to lead the "Polish Insur­remote control by authorities in a stormed the two-story building after gent Home Army" after having car nearby. blowing in the front door with a worked for the Polish intelligence­The glass-shattering blast 
remote-controlled stun bomb they gathering service. He was described knocked down the door and the hid in a food container to fool the by Swiss officials as a "mixture of police swept in. gunmen, who seized the embassy patriot and criminal." Furgler said there were about 10 and 13 hostages Monday. They said Kruszyk served most of other blasts, a.~ the police set offflash 
Eight captives were released a nine-year prison term for a jewelry and smoke bombs to confuse the Tuesday and Wednesday through store robbery in Vienna in 1969. gunmen or detonated charges to negotiations, but the gunmen Furgler -who headed the federal force open doors. threatened to blow up the embassy crisis management team and joined Two of the terrorists were seized 
and kill the others today unless they in the negotiations with Kruszyk's in the hall near the front door, about ready to pick up the container on
got $1.45 million, safe passage to band -said the precision raid was the porch. The other two wereeither China or Albania and an end almost foiled by the attempted
An unidentified man carries a basket to the Polish embassy in 
believed guarding the hostages in anto martial law in Poland. suicide of one of the hostages, Col.
Bern, Switzerland, Thursday. Shortly after the basket was 
adjoining room.

justice Minister Kurt Furgler said Zygmunt Dobruszewski, the embas·
delivered, a remote control bomb was detonated to begin the raid 
afterwards that the Swiss govern­sy military attache.
that freed hostages at the embassy and resulted in the capture of 
ment would "never accept black-Neither the police nor the gun-
four men. (AP Photo) 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 
Private rocket 
t aR€ you an €nqaq€0 €ncount€R t€am t 

flawlessly




r''SKY'''D;,,,,,J 
t PRI€St, stubymq at n.O. oR woRkln(j 't t In th€ ffiiChlanaaR€a? South B€nb t launched 
t €nqaq€b €ncount€R n€€bs you! I~ you t MATAGORDA ISLAND, Texas
~ ~ ~ 
( AP) -The first rocket ever
t can commit on€ W€€k€nb a Y€aR, pl€a5€ ,
~ ~ launched by U.S. private enterprise..... 
' 
~ ~ 
a callus. ' blasted off flawlessly from this coas­tal island yesterday and flew a ten­' ' John & P€44Y Swltz€R 291-8887 il' and-a-half-minute suborbital mission before splashing down in
' t_ 
~ , ' 
~------~~~-------the GulfofMexico. 
~ 

-~ ',. 
i SKYSTREAM ! 
~

,.  
~ !  STUDENT FIRST JUMP INSTRUCTION TRAINING FEES: $90 per student training includes  ' ~  
~  ground school, first static line jump, equipment rental,  ~  
~  parachute packing, jump master, airlift.  _.  
~  STlnC LIME JUMPS: $1 8.00/ jump ~ need a minimum  ~  
~  of 5 static line jumps.  ~  
~ _.  STUDDR nu FALL: $1 5.001 jump -up to 5,500 ft. Includes jump master, equipment rental & parachute  ~!  
;  packing.  ~  
~  Group rates are available  ~  
~!  STUDENT TRAINING CLASSES: Start 9:00A.M. Sat. & Sun.  ' ~  

~ ~  Come down and watch, questions you might hove.  our  staff will  answer  any  ill!i  
~ !  DEFINITIONS: ~n!~~!~Eo~~otic;~;~l~y~0~n;;~;~ ~ir~li~~~u~ ~t ;t~~i~  
~  required.  
_.  CUAI AID I'ULL: Student jumps and deploys chute immediately by  
~  pulling his ripcord.  
~  FIH FALL: Delaying the pull until 2,500 ft., thus falling foro time  
;,  maintaining stable Right.  
~  RELAnYE WOII {IW): A number of jumpers together using freefoll  ~  
~  1tme to complete formations at altitude.  ;,  
;, ~i  THE FU (FEIIUAL AVIATIOII ASSOC.) requires every jumper to wear two chuies-A motn and o reserve. Til. reserve must be pocked by o FAA certified rigger  ~ ~ ~  
~  For further information call:  ,.  
~  Goshen Municipal Airport 533-8245  ~  

..................................................................................................4 

CLIP THESE COUPOXS.. ·· 

II 1 II 9111111111111111 I I I I llllllf 1111''' ffffftt•• I I If I II I li 11111 
;!_-~]"  7 G~MBBOOM tokens for $1.00  
with coupon  
.  Xo limit on purchase. 

. 
: Gameroom open year-round : expires Sept 30 

•···················•····························•·············• 
1~~····························1 
IWtbellaaorat! 
and play All Three courses (games goodany time) for only $2.00 (halfprice)Bringyour friends along. We'll let them in on the deal too! 
Expires Sept 30 '······························································ OPEX YEAR ROUXD! 3615 X. Main., Mishawaka (one block south of Edison Rd.) Opentill midnight 259-4171 
"Everything looked perfect. It went right on down the pike," said mission director Donald K Slayton, a retired astronaut. 
Conestoga 1, a gleaming white, 37-foot-tall rocket, climbed to anal­titude of 192 miles, arched over the Gulf and separated from a dummy payload that spewed 400 pounds of water into space. The payload and rocket splashed down 321 miles from the launch pad. 
The launch by Space Services Inc. ofAmerica was a "victory for private enterprise," said company founder and board chairman David Hannah, a Houston businessman. 
"This showed that a group of private investors can get together and launch a rocket in a responsible way and well within a commercially feasible limit," said Hannah. 
Hannah said a dozen oil com­panies have expressed interest in using SSI to place satellites in orbit to monitor oil wells in remote sites and to search for minerals and oil deposits. 
Conestoga 1 was built around a solid-fuel rocket motor from a surplus Minuteman missile. SSI bought the motor from the govern­ment for $365,000 and hired a con­tractor, Space Vectors Inc., to build the spacecraft. 
Next on SSI's agenda is launching a satellite and raising S15 million to S20 million to finance it, Hannah said. The company has yet to obtain a launch site but is negotiating for a location in Hawaii, he s:ud. 

FIRE UP---FOR FOOTBALL AT BRI-DGET'S 

---~~~-·--~--­

The Observer Friday, September 10, 1982 page 5 
. . 


Dining hall makes changes 
BySANDYVALENZUELA 
StaffReporter 
Various changes in the dining hall have already been made by Robert Luedtke, the new director of SAGA Food Services at Saint Mary's. These range from relocation ofthe deli line to a new salad bar system. 
Luedtke has been with SAGA for six years working at various col­leges. 
"Part ofmy job, as I see it," he says, "is to try to generate alternatives to the normal board programs that are financially feasible." He believes that by first establishing a repeating menu cycle, he can later offer varia­tions from the regular schedule. 
One change Luedtke has made so far is in the location of the deli line, moving it to the north side ofthe hall at lunchtime. Both hot plate lines are now on the south side. This, accord­ing to Luedtke, was done in order to alleviate traft1c from the south side, from where most students enter. The students must still, however, check in at the appropriate side before getting their trays. 
Meg Rowley of LeMans has en­countered no problems with the rearranged dinner lines. "I think that at lunch time having it (the deli) on the other side is a good idea." 
But others disagreed. Kathie Drew, McCandless resident, said,"I wish they'd put the deli line back where it used to he." 
Kassy Welsh of McCandless said,"It causes a lot of congestion. I wish they'd put it where the LeMans hot plate line is now. That way we'd have the hot plate lines on both sides." 
Some other changes made include moving the Pepsi and ice machines out ofthe lines and into self,serve is­lands away from che traffic. The condiments have also been moved out of the traffic areas. 
"To make things self-serve allows more tlexibility and usully shortens the time from getting your sil­verware to getting your meal,"says Luedtke as an explanation for rearranging the dining hall. 
At first the new arrangement of 
the salad bar caused confusion by 
leading t directly into the tray deposit 
lines. With only two salad aisles, the 
lines became congested during rush 
hour. 
Luedtke believes the present salad bar system will avoid any more such confusion and allow the students to serve themselves more quickly. 
Now, the salad bars have been 
rearranged to allow four aisles of 
traffic and have been moved away 
from the tray deposit. 
The additional round tables hold­ing lettuce and toppings allow extra space at the har. In order to offer "another alternate dining solution to the individual salad; bulk service of yogurt and cottage cheese is now available at the salad bar." Last year, small premeasured portions were available. Now students may serve themselves as much of these dishes as they wish. 
Luedtke believes the dining hall to be one of the largest social vehicles on campus, as students go there to convene. He would like to see more student participation in the form ofa food services committee. 
"I don't think people grow unless 
they're willing to try new ideas,"says Luedtke. One idea of his is for a nacho machine at the deli line. Other options include a mixed fruit bowl at the entrances and a bagel and cream cheese extravaganza. 
Luedtke believes one way he t "can make residence life more fun is to bring in variety and specials." Planned "monotony breakers" for this year include peanut butter and potato extravaganzas as well as a spaghetti excursion. Special meals are planned for holidays. 
This year the snack bar will be moved to the second floor ofthe old library. According to Luedtke, it may even expand to offer pizza delivery on campus. 
Once the snack bar is moved, Luedtke plans on utilizing the 
...
. 
available space by perhaps installing a wide-screen television or using it for the deli and salad bar. 
Charles Flaim, former director of Saint Mary's Food Service, is now manager of Notre Dame's South Dining Hall. Flaim left SAGA after 20 years ofservice, eight ofwhich were at Saint Mary's. 
He explains that he was up for a transfer. He and his family chose not to leave the South Bend area. When an opportunity arose at Notre Dame, he applied and was hired as manager. 
Flaim plans to play a part in dining hall changes. An example, he notes, was the combined effort of the North and South Dining Halls in the picnic at Stepan Center. 

House overrides Reagan's veto of 'budget-buster' 
The Democratic controlled House dealt President Reagan on Thursday his first major reversal on a spending measure by overrid­ing, 301-117, his veto of a S 14.2-billion bill he called a "budget­buster." The margin was. 22 votes more than the two thirds needed to overturn the veto. That sent the bill to the Republican-dominated Senate. It was only the second time in nearly two years the House has overture one of Reagan's vetoes, and the first such action on a major budget bill. The vote came as the president was flying from Topeka, Kan., to Utah. Just moments before the tally, House Speaker Thomas 
P. O'Neill, D-Mass., appealed to Republicans who originally sup­ported the bill to "stay with your conscience." "Let's get America moving again. And let's not leave these elderly, the handicapped and the disadvantaged behind," said O'Neill. Earlier, Reagan had fought to make the veto stick by offering a last-minute concession to keep alive a politically popular program providing jobs for 54,000 senior citizens -AP 


'• 

-----------------------------~--------------------------------------------~ 


The Observer 
continuedfrom page 1 

crew you could ever wane" 
A new addition to the bar will be the presence of a security guard during business hours. R.oemer feels this is necessary to "protect the new building and to maintain a safe at­mosphere." Enforcing the 21-year­old drinking age will still be left up to the bar staff. The security guard will only intervene should a situa­tion occur beyond the student staffs control, although Roemer said there have not been problems in the past­He also stated that frequent inspec­tions by state excise officers have never found any drinking ordinance violations. 
But Roemer is not taking any chances with the new building's liq­uor license. He recently announced stiff fines for people found violating University drinking regulations. People found in the bar that are un­der age, or those caught helping un­derage people enter, are subject to a 
noo fine. 
There wiU be one night when stu­dents who are not yet 21 will be able to use the bar's facilities. On Sun­days, all members of the student body will be ·able to enter the bar and purchase non-alcoholic beverages. Roemer says that "this will alit w younger students to eat pizza ar: J sing." Woods credits Uni­versity >resident Father Theodore 

Prices quoted on request 
Dixie Giannetto, owner of t1Le former Giannetto's 
l.estaraunt, wishes to ann ·unce that her famous STUFFED PIZZA, voted last year as Michiana's finest is now being ser\ ed at Mr. Bentons. 
Hours 4:00-10:00 pm Tues-5at Clu 9d Sun 8c Mon 907 31st. St. Soutl 1end Phone: 289-900 J 
...Bar 
Hesburgh with this idea. Woods hopes to have kitchen equipmen~ installed by late Septem­
ber. This will allow the bar to serve a number of snacks and hors­d'oeuvres. At that time Woods hopes to begin serving lunch each day. Most seniors are anxious to see what the new building has to offer. Saint Mary's Senior Class President Beth Bunker feels that "even though it's not just a bar for seniors, I'm glad the alumni and administration have provided something for everyone." Tonight the Notre Dame Senior Class, in conjunction with the Stu­dent Union, are sponsoring the band Chariot-"This is a good dance band from Chicago with a lot of bar ex­perience," said Student Union Social Commissioner Dave Drouillard. He also plans to have an Irish band in the bar after the Michigan game. Regular Senior Bar patrons will find the prices of drinks mostly un­changed. A total of 32 taps will dis­pense beer to patrons. 
continuedfrom page 1 
Reilly said that when he contacted the Exchange, he discovered that all of the posts and been given out, but that one of the institutions was unable to raise the money for renovation. After several months of negotiation, they agreed to give their post to Notre Dame. 
The money for the installation of the post was donated by Notre Dame alumnus Thomas A. Coleman '56. Coleman is a graduate of the College of Business Administration 

....---------------------·--------------------------------. 


$39.95 
(INCLUDES KEG OF BEER, TAP, 50 cups, ICE, BAG & SALES TAX)* Your Choice BUDWEISER, BUDLIGHT, BUSCH,
. . 
NATURAL; STROH'S 
''~m~~]m'ii
~ q(\{\ ~ 
-The Beer Co. 
287-1067 
Daily 8:30-4:30 Sat.10-12 
(NEW CONVENIENT HOURS) 
Michelob/Mich Light $45.00 Heineken $68.00 We have posters and signs 

for your room. *(Does not include any deposit charges) 


-----~----~ --~-­
--------,­
Friday, September 10, 1982 -page 6 
... Stocks 
and a partner in Adler Coleman & Co., a specialist firm on the Ex­change. He is also a member of the College of Business Advisory Coun­
cil. Reilly declined to reveal the amount of the donation. 
Explaining how the posts were used, Reilly said that three or four specialists at a post might handle about l 5 kinds ofstock each. 
The style of post that Notre Dame now owns was introduced on the floor ofthe Exchange in 1929, Reilly stated. Later they began adding electronic parts to cope with the rapidly increasing trade volume. But by 1981, the attempts to renovate the old posts became inadequate, and they decided to bring in new electronic posts with video screens, Reilly continued. 
The library was chosen as the site for the post for various reasons. "There is really no obvious place in the College of Business to put it," Reilly said. "The Hurley building was somewhat of a possibility, but there it would have had to be pushed into a corner, and I didn't think it was an appropriate setting. 
"The library did have the space, and since it is for educational purposes, we wanted as many people as possible to see and benefit from it," he commented. 
The dedication of the gift will be on Sept. 24, in connection with the Advisory Council meeting. Thomas Coleman, along with john]. Phelan, Jr., president of the New York Stock Exchange, will be present. 
There will be a related exhibit in the library during the week of the dedication. 


r:2~!,~f~~~ ::\ 
SZECNUA/1 -CANTONESE-AMERICAN 
CHUCK WHITE 
* *
At The Piano Bar 
See Chuck Ever)· Tues. thru Sat. 
8:00 p.m.-1:00 a.m..... Enjoy Life! 
•Dancing• Drinks• Dinger 
. • HospitaliJy• Reasonabk Prices 
Lunch Special $1.99 to $_1.25 
"The Best Chinese Food You 'veEver Had" 
HOURS: OPEN 7 DAYS Mon ·Thur 11:30a.m.·10:00p.m. A WEEK "ri. & Sat. 11:30 a.m.-11 :00 p.m. Sun. & Holidays 4 p.m.-9:00p.m. 
130 DIXIE HWY. SOUTH 


The Observer Friday, September 10, 1982 ----page 7 


The New Senior Bar 
When these photos were taken, workers were busy preparing Senior Bar for tonights opening. Once the sawdust and tools are removed, the interior should be readyfor the thirsty masses. 


II 

' 
II 
·IV 
I ) 
I 
.,. 
:... ;
~ 
· .. 
:'··i· 
J 
I 


OOfC''.,.O'S 
1\.,~· rS
,.,,~ . · .. 

t 
! 
! 


I I 
Domino's Pizza 
Delivers~ ••• 
plastic cups,. 

/ .. while. supply l.asts. 
.. 
Fast .. Free Delivery 


277-2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. 
Hours: 11 am-1 am Sun. -Thurs. 11 am· 2am Fri.-Sat 
Ask about our party discounts. 

All Pizzas Include Our Special Blend of Sauce and 100% Real Cheese 
Our Superb Cheese Pizza 
12" cheese $4.49 
16" cheese $6.49 

Domino's Deluxe 5 items for the price of 4 Pepperoni, Mushroom$, Green Peppers, Onions, and Sausage 12" Deluxe $8.05 16" Deluxe $11.65 
Additional Items Pepperoni, Mushrooms, Ham, Onions, Anchovies, Green Peppers, Olives, Ground Beef, Sausage, Hot Peppers. Double Cheese, Extra Thick Crust 
12» pizza $ .89 per item 16" pizza $1.29 per item 
Ir·---------------------,
I 

I I 4Free 
I• Cups Of 
I I Cola! I I I 

4 free cups of Cola I with any 16" pizza I One coupon per pizza .. 
Expires: Sept. 80  I I  
Fast~ Free Delivery  I  
1835 South Bend Ave.  I  
Phone: 277·2151  I  
26216/2650  I  

I I I I I I I I I •• I 
L••••••••••••••••••••••J 



r··------·-------------,I 
I 
I I 2. Free I 
I Cu/ps··Of I 
I Cola! 
I I I I 


I I I I I I IL••••••••••••••••••••••JI 
2 free cups of Cola I with any 12" pizza I One coupon per pizza I Expires:Sept. 80 I I Fast1 Free Delivery I 1835 South Bend Ave. I Phone: 277-2151 I 26216/2650 I 
I 

12" 16" How to order your pizza: 5. Turn on your porch light. 1-item $5.38 $ 7.78 2-item $6.27 $ 9.07 You can help us serve you 6. The price that is 3-item $7.16 $10.36 and others faster if you quoted on the phone 4-item $8.05 $11.65 follow these simple steps includes sales tax but 
when ordering your pizza. does not include the Cups of Cola $ .35 ea subtraction of the coupon. 
1. Know what you want The driver will subtract it Prices subject to tax. before ordering (size of when the delivery is Drivers carry under $10. pizza, quantity, what you made. Limited delivery area. want on it, any drinks). ©1982 Domino's P•zza. Inc 7. If you reside in a 
2. Know the phone num­dormitory, wait in 


ber and address of the your room for us to call residence from which you you, then come down­are calling. stairs with your money 
and coupons to pick 
3. 
When placing an order, up your pizza. let us know if you have large denomination bills. 

4. 
Remain by the phone after ordering. We may call back to confirm the order. 


® 

Ir·---------------------~ 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 

$2.00 off any 16" 2-item or more pizza One coupon per pizza Expires: Sept. 80
~ 
Fast, Free Delivery 1835 South Bend Ave. Phone: 277·2151 
26216/2650 

® 

L-----·-··•-····-------J 


r···--·----------------,I I I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I

L••••••••••••••••••• 
$1.00 off any pizza I I One coupon per pizza I Expires: Sept. 80 I 
I 
Fast, Free Delivery 
1835 South Bend Ave. Phone: 277-2151 





SJ I 
26216/2650 

~ 
~ 
---:1 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~~ 
Fridayt September 10, 1982 ·7 _~ 9.,
Editorials 
Stop using food as weapon agaiilst Third Wo-rld 
A large "thank you" is in order for the stu­dents who meritoriously sacrifice their gastro-intestinal pursuits every Wednesday in a valiant attempt to bolster the coffers of the World Hunger Coalition (WHC). World hun­ger, especially in the Third World, or the emerging nations, embodies an essential need for which many of us more fortunate can partake. The money given to the hunger drives will be well received. 
Gregory Swiercz 
Speaking O~t 
Yet the very thought that the noble efforts ofthe WHC are being underminded by nation­al leaders intent upon developing these emergingand "impressionable" nations solely for economic gain would sour these empty stomaches to the point ofregurgitation. 
Various campus organizations devote their energies to improving the quality of social, spiritual and economic conditions of the Third World countries, the group ofdevelop­ing nations thought ofby the rest ofthe world as "underprivileged." 
The WHC, the Community for International Lay Apostulate, and many other organizations make it their concern to offer their services to emerging countries, bringing much-needed attention and knowledge not otherwise received by those nations. These efforts are earnest, concerned ont::s; there is no recipro­cal "thank you" expected by these peoples. 
Yet there is a double standard when the 
words "Third World" are spoken. For the 
WHC and the others, the emphasis of these 
nations is to try to improve their living condi­
tions by whatever means available. But to 
American leaders who face record unemploy­
ment, a bumper crop ofrood and warehouses 
of g~ods marked "unsellable" to a stagnant economy, any viable market becomes fair game to unload the supply glut. 
In fact, America is becoming so reliant on the Third World market, some say the future to the American recession lies with the success oftrade to the emerging nations. 
Consider these facts by a leading economist: 
•The 
United States sends nearly 3 7 percent of its total exported goods to third world na­tions. 

•If 
the Third World nations increased U.S. exported goods by half, it is contended that unemployment in the U.S. and Canada would be virtually nonexistent. 


What is most perplexing is the federal goverment's policy ofrewarding farmers who produce bumper Ct'Ops by subsidizing them when they don't harvest and market it. While mothers all over the world are saying to their children at the dinner table, "Eat your peas, there are people starving in Afghanistan," far­
. mers, who seem to be in the most appropriate position to do something about world hunger, tum their sentimentality aside and hold the fruits oftheir fields to rot there. 
Are the farmers chasing their own tails? Technological changes in agronomy over the years has substantially increased their growing power. Through such things as plant hybridization, new pest controls and even dimate control, yields in bushels-per-acre 
.have skyrocketed to the point that ifthere are average growing conditions, bumper crops ensue. 
Given, the weather is about predictable as a the recent baseball pennant race. It may just be that our economy isn't capable ofhandling an already flooded market. But what about the starving people in Afghanistan? Fields of food sit, while babies' bellies bloat with malnutri­tion. 
The United States pours millions of dollars 


into the Third World nations, but I seriously 

P.O. BoxQ 
feminist mouement flawed 
DearEditor: 
The changitlg role of women in modem Western society has caused a great many problems, not to mention a good deal of anguish to both men and women. These problems are compounded by the spe­cious reasoning and gross misconceptions ofpeople like Robert Lloyd Snyder, who, in last Wednesday's Observer, castigated Notre Dame men in search ofhousewives. What -I find sO fascinating is the attempt made by those who welcome the women's li~ration movement to portray the destruction of the family as a purely pas­sing phenomenon during this time of transition. I would like to believe that these problems will disappear in the course often or twenty years and thatjohn the engineer and Mary the corporate ex­ecutive can settle down and live happily ever after; yet the destruction ofthe family and the abandonment of morality are problems which strike the heart ofsociety, so that I cannot help but believe that ifthe changing role of women has not caused these problems, then they are, in all likelihood, symptoms ofthe same disease. 
Would it be too much to ask Mr. Snyder to consider the possibility that the philosophy behind the feminist movement is inherently flawed and dangerous to the well-being of ~th men and WOIJ!en? 
Mr. Snyder complains about the "medieval notion" prevalent at Notre Dame that women are not "ordinary people." For starters, there was never any such notion in the Middle Ages, at least not in Western Europe. Secondly, to condemn an idea simply because it is medieval is ab­surd, like condemning an idea because it was thought on a Thursday. 
Does he believe that housewives are not people? Mr. Snyder loves "aggressive and ambitious women; conversation is better; their company is more enjoyable." I invite Mr. Snyder to have a chat with Mrs. Brown, a happy housewife and loving mother of five. And though she does not hold a col­lege degree from a prestigious university, nor is she very aggressive, I know of no other person more interesting or under­standing. 
At bottom, my only concrete objection to feminism is that it attempts to destroy all distinction between the sexes. We are no longer to be man and woman, only "persons." Thus, the feminist does not want to be called chairwoman or congres­swoman, but chairperson, and congres­sperson. Like so many other aspects of modem life, feminism pushes us toward uniformity. Personally, I find uniformity repulsive. I love variety. I love men and women, not "persons." 1 believe a kind of "healthy bigotry," as G. K. Chesterton called it, is the only reasonable response to feminism until we can knowwhat the long­term effects ofthe feminist movement will be. 
In the meantime, Notre Dame women have my greatest sympathy, for I think many ofthem are tom between choosing a career and a traditional role of wife and mother. IfNotre dame women have "needs for self-fulfillment and success," as Mr. Snyder says they have, then I sympathize with them even more. It is one of the paradoxes oflife that those who seek self­fulfillment and succes will never find them. 
Brendan Broum Arts and Letters 

question their intentions. In a CBS60Minutes story about two years ago, Mike Wallace un­covered a small underdeveloped island being "pacified" with hoardes of U.S. issue food and other goods in exchange for rights to dump hazardous wastes on the island. The opening scene showed a native feeding U.S. choice canned roast beef to his pet pig. The inex­cusable way the United States bargained with this island fails to support the widespread belief that we embody "truly humanitarian" motives when dealing with foreign aid. It becomes a potent weapon, imposing a tremendous amount of clout over the Third World nations. 
There is a group at Notre Dame which is called PACE: Priorities and Commitments for the Eighties. This is a group ofupper level ad­ministrators and trustees who will decide the course of the university for the next decade. Their report will be the basic guideline for planningand policy. Itwould seem a little odd that no members ofthe faculty or the student body were called in to take an active role in the future plans for the university. 
Randyfahs 


Friday Analysis· 
The decision making process at Notre Dame tends to remain greatly removed from the student body and the faculty. It would seem logical that these two groups would be most essential to the process of looking at future directions for the university because they ARE the university. Both are highly qualified and could bring into the discussion a great deill ofideas and criticisms which could only help the PACE committee. Unfortunate­ly, it seems that Notre Dame will continue in its habit of making decisions for people with­out asking them for any input. 
Life at any ~niversity· involves the interac­tions ofgroups with specific goals and needs. The most efficient way to satisfy these is by bringing tog!!tber all of the involved groups for a discussion. Obviously, it is impossible to please everyone, but these discussons would not only generate many excellent ideas, they would also promote a great deal of under­standing and provide a basis for further dialogue between the various elements which make up the university. This dialogue would equip the administration with information that it could tap into before it makes a deci­sion on a longterm course ofaction. 
The obvious goal is to make Notre Dame the best university that it can possibly 
Organizations like the W.H.O. and others must keep sight of this conflict ofinterests in dealing with the Third World nations. A way to channel surplus food, goods we Americans ' seem to be wasting in the fields due to a pre­determined level on a commodities chart, would sufficiently suppress the outcry for food on this earth. Then and only then will the bureaucratic wheels ofbusiitess in the emerg­ing nations roll, unimpeded by problems con­sidered to be the most essential to mankind's existence. 
To those who fast on Wednesdays: Keep up the dedicated effort. The lives you save will be well worth it. 
become. This goal is hard to define sPc:cifical­ly, but a general guideline is that Notre Dame should maintain excellent facilities, a highly qualified faculty and student bodJ(.o. and an en­vironment which promotes learning, personal growth, and mature interpersonal relation­ships on all levels. 
The administration must be made to realize that it cannot make all ofthe major university decisions on its own. A change in this policy might involve a change in many of Notre Dame's traditions, as well as a great deal of criticism about its activities, but these things are what is needed to help all of us meet the world of tomorrow. It iS never comfortable for someone to point outwhat they perceive to be errors in judgement, but constructive criticism is essential to the maintenance ofex­cellence on all levels. 
In the future, we must t;elp Notre Dame not only to look at itself, but also help it to turn outward This Is being done to a limited ex­tent by many of the community service or­ganizations on campus,' but there is no comprehensive plan for university involve­ment in the South Bend community and the world as a whole. In fact, the university has done its best to minimize the contact between itself and the surrounding areas. South Bend could definitely profit from the input and in· ftuence ofNotre Dame, and Notre Dame has a responsibility to do this as a Christian institu­tion and a geographic neighbor. 
Notre Dame is a fine place, and one that I am proud to be a part Qf The special attach­ment that I feel toward the university makes me want to see it live up to its fullest potential My criticisms ofits actions and policies come from my deep seated desire to see Notre Dame continue and improve. 
As a university Notre Dame is made up of many people. Ifit wants to serve these people in the best possible way, then it m114t seek their input on all ofitl'!'rtorltles and Commit­ments. 


Editorial Board 


The Ohurver is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
/:{liltll"·ill·(.bit•(.............................Mkhad Monk Husines.~ Manager.............................Tony Aiello 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
.lfanaging l:"tlitor................Ky;m \"n lkrk':'lol"s Ctm/IYJIIer.............................................f.rk S<:hulz 
reflect the policies of the ~dministration of either institution. The news i) report· 
1:".\"t'Otlit't' :Vt•ws l:"tlilor.........................Kdli l'linl Adt't!l"li.~i11,1!. Mmwgt•r.......................<:hris ()wen
ed as arcurately and as obrcct.vdy as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of 
S.11C .'llt•ws l:"ditor.....................Mar~;lrl"t l'usmm: l'mtlllt"lillll Mcllltlgt•r .................. Maura Murphy 
a maronty of the Ed•tonal Board. Co.nmentaries, opinions and letters are the views 
.\jHirts l:"diltll" ................................... <:luis Nn·uks Circulation Manager .......................... Kay lnglin_... · 
of their authors .. Column srace is_ available to all members of the community, and 
l:"tlitorials l:"tlilor .............................P;mll\k(iinn -~J'Siems ,,fallagt•r...........................Brll(."l" Oakley
the free express•on of varymg opliliOns on campus, through l.dters: ii encour:18ed. 
Ft·atltrt·.~ /:"elitor ............... ...................Tari Brown 1'/HJio l:"tlitor.................................. l{;l(:hd Blount 
Founded November .i. 1966

P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
J ' ~ 1 
--~-----~--~
..... ­
-----------~ 


-~S H0 W C '~iiiiiSiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiFiiiridiiayii,
SeiiptiiiemiibeiirliiO,iii19iii82iiiipaiige-10 
Chautauqua movement spteads to Notte Dame 
B
ecause they were dissatisfied director Andy Abrams, much ofthe October: 20 -Freshman Year presents tainment rhat has proven to be (just as we Domers have a ten­adverse publicity that Chautauqua wide screen TV football (Air Force) popular in the past. He resolves that dency to be) with the various types has received can perhaps be at­5-Movie:HighNoon with Little 2p.m. Chautauqua's budget "will be care­ofentertainment available to them, tributed to the problems which ini­Rascals short film 8 & 10 p.m. 23-Movie:ltHappenedOne fully spent so as to attract quality several innovative western New tially plagued those who established 12 -Movie: East ofEden 7, 9, & Night 8 & IO p.m. groups and entertainment." Yorkers gathered at Lake Chautau­the coffeehouse. Abrams observes 11 p.m. 30-Movie: Stagecoach with Consistent with his effort to qua in 1874 to explore new outlets that while "the founders had good 19-Movie:Shall We Dance? 8 & Little Rascals short film 8 & 10 p.m. provide Notre Dame students with a for social interaction. This meeting intentions and lots ofgood ideas, IOp.m. genuine alternative to existing op­proved to be successful, as it they thought that it (Chautauqua) December: tions, Abrams emphasizes his inten­resulted in the creation of a unique would run itself. And it didn't -it November: tion to provide students with the new entertainment opportunity wasn't self-supporting." 3-Freshman Social (Spos. by entertainment they desire. He states: known as the Chautauqua move­Another difficulty which Chautau­2 -Movie: Bringing Up Baby 8 & Freshman Year) "We are really working to let the stu­ment. qua's organizers faced was the num­IOp.m. 4-Band: Duke Tomatoe 9p.m. dents know that we're not just 
ber ofrestrictions imposed upon the 5 -freshman Social ( Spos. by 7 -Movie: The Cowboys 7, 9, & joking-that we want to make
CatoiCamp coffeehouse by the local fire mar­Freshman Year) II p.m. Chautauqua what the students shal. Required improvements in 6 -Freshman Year presents wide I4 -Movie: The Birds 7. 9, & II want." wiring and in lighting were two screen TV football (Pitt.) p.m. Despite the problems which have things that "made the project ex­6-Band:Fast&Missad 9 p.m. plagued Chautauqua in the past,
features 

pensive." Now that the necessary 9 -Movie: The Marx Brothers, , Commenting upon this semester's Abrams maintams an optimistic out­
The primary goal ofthe founders repairs have been made, Abrams in­The Coconuts, & Pigskin Capers 7, calendar, Abrams notes that the big­look for the coffeehouse's future by ofthe Chautauqua movement was to tends to channel Chautauqua'sfunds 9, & ll p.m. gest change that students will notice "not looking at what the problems provide a popular system ofeduca­toward "providingquality entertain­!6-Movie: Foreign Correspon­this year is the regularity and fre­are, but what the benefits can be." tion through lectures, concerts, and ment at low prices." dents (Spos. by Film Club) 8 & I 0 quency ofevents. Additionally, Perhaps the seeds of Domer dis­various other means ofentertain­Abrams has made a real effort to ac­content can be plowed under,
Even though improvements have p.m. 
ment. As the movement's popularity been made, and new equipment 18-21 -Student Players present comodate students' needs by not resulting in the creation of true so­increased, several hundred com­(including a completely new sound "A Man for All Seasons" 8 p.m. ( 2 scheduling events on home football cial interaction -a true munities sponsored Chautauqua p.m. Sunday) weekends, and by providing enter-"chautauqua movement."
system ) has been acquired, ' weeks. As a result ofthese gather­Chautauqua now has a more difficult ings, millions ofindividuals were in­challenge to overcome: that of 
troduced to the new and often image. Because ofthe coffeehouse's "revolutionary'' ideas of the late non-alcohol policy, the entertain­nineteenth century, including a ment options it provides for Notre federal income tax and international Dame students are often ignored, disarmament. lost in the midst of happy hours and 
Although the movement no lon­weekend drink specials at Corby's ger enjoys the widespread recogni­and Senior Bar. In an effort to appeal tion it formerly possessed, a small to a wider variety ofstudents' needs Chautauqua society still flourishes and interests, this semester's in New York state. More important­Chautauqua events include classic ly, however, is the renaissance movies, live band concerts, and a six which Notre Dame's own Chautau­week dance class. Chautauqua's fall qua (the Chautauqua coffeehouse calendar appears as follows: which is sponsored by the Student September: Union) will be experiencing during the coming year. 7-Movie: Hitchcock's39Steps 8 
In the past, the Chautauqua con­& lOp.m. cept has been subject to widespread I 0 -Movie: The Song Remains negative reaction among many the Same IO p.m. & midnight members ofthe Notre Dame student I I -freshman Social ( Spos. by body. While the vast majority ofstu­Freshman Year) dents will not hesitate to admit that 21 -Movie: The African Qu~en there are definite problems caused with Abbott & Costello shortfilm, by the lack ofdesirable social life 
Who's on First 7:~0. 9:30, & II :~0 here on campus. they nevertheless p.m. question Chautauqua's credibility as 28-Movie: Mr. Smith Goes to a viable alternative. According to Washington 8 & 10 p.m. 
Hackfotd's first class OFFICER 
I
n the early 1950's, while still a Mayo (Cool Hand Luke); even a shoulder shots describe the scene young critic with Cahiers du glorious punch out between instruc­with utter detachment. Moreover Cinema, Francois Truffaut advoca­tor and student(To Sir With Love). we are provided with an unusual ted an auteurist approach to film Suffice it to say that we've all seen number ofcloseups of most every theory. According to Truffaut, direc­this movie before in one form or an­actor, suggesting that all ofthese tors such as John Ford, Howard other. characters have some-thing Hawks, and Alfred Hitchcock worthwhile to tell us. Hence the film merited critical acclaim for their However the visual aspects ofAn is re-presentative rather than ability to write, direct, and produce Officerand a Gentleman raise it manipulative, requiring some im­quality films within the confines of above its run ofthe mill subject mat­aginitive effort on the part ofthe the Hollywood studio system. While audience.
ter. Director Hackford accomplishes Taylor Hackford is no auteur, he 
this feat primarily through some 
An Officer and a Gentleman 

consistent camera work -nothing presents a number of tastefully un­
Pat mulligan strikingly original, but with fealty derstated performances by a promis­
towards the narrative. To put it an­
ing group ofyoung actors. Richard other way, the cinematography em­Gere does a credible job as Zack bellishes the "story"; the camera Mayo, a loner who comes to realize

movie review 

corroborates the screenplay. Thus 
the value and necessity of does display some innovative talents when Zack bids adieu to his licen­
friendship. Debra Winger is surpris­
within the conventional boundaries tious stepfather, the camera frames ingly versatile as the husband­ofAn Officer and a Gentleman. an appropriate separation. Again, the hunting Paula, a factory girl hot on Hackford, whose previous film The viewer observes physical obstacles the trail ofZack. Lou Gosset will 
/do/maker received mixed reviews in the background as Zack argues probably receive an Oscar nomina­a couple ofyears ago, has a knack for with his girlfriend Paula in the tion as the hard-boiled Drill Instruc­producing effective pictorial com­foreground. This integration of tor Foley. And David Keith shows apositons out ofpredictable subject storyline with formal elements rein­great deal ofsensitivity in the dif­material. Given the right amount of forces the effect ofthe movie as a ficult role ofSid, Zack's best friend attime and creative independence whole; there is a unity, a balance to boot camp.
Taylor Hackford could develop into the numerous episodes which com­a fine film maker. prise the finished film. An Officer and a Gentleman 
An Officeranda Gentleman con­provides cause for optimism. While cerns the trials and tribulations of One mher notable technical the film is conventional m many Zack Mayo (Richard Gere) in his achievement involves the film's respects there are a number of que~~ to become a naval flight of­point ofview. Hackford's camera potential talents at work here. With 
ficer. The film's narrative sen­avoids subjective shots, allowing the maturity and independence Taylor sibilities are highly derivative; we audience to deter-mine its own Hackford and his crew could have traumatic childhood flashbacks sympathies. Consider the ongoing produce some quality films. An Of­(Midnight Cowboy); an attempt to tete a tete between Zack and Paula: ficer and a Gentleman is a step in break the spirit ofthe rebellious uniformly objective over-the-the right direction. 


--------~----------------------~-------------------~----~----------~------------------------------------­
... 
···················································~·····················~····· 

The Observer Features Section 
Friday, September 10, 1982-page 11 
BIGck Gnd white together 
I 
like black people. Without trying to come off as the 
great, white liberal, I like the blacks I meet in New 
York, the blacks I meet on campus. Whenever I write of 
minority groups, I am accused ofbeing paternalistic and 
condescending. In the dining hall, when I've said to a 
seventeen year old freshman: "You're very pretty," a 
friend who knows about these things, tells me: "You're 
bein~; sexist." At age fifty six, I can risk being sexist, be­
cause I have no other way ofhandling myself. As a WASP 
turned f{oman Catholic, I can say I like Italian people, 
and dine out for a month on the invitations I get to eat 
spaghetti. 
So, I am saying it as simply as I can: I like Blacks. If 
there were a better way ofsaying it, I would try to find 
it. The members of my family were mostly Yankee fis­
hermen, living on the coast of Maine. These sunburned 
men and their hard working wives were a class unto 
themselves. Tourists spending their summers in Bar 
Harbor speak ofthe Maine natives as down-East charac­
ters. Royal Dalton has done a figure in porcelain ofthe 
Maine lobsterman. He is as singular as the old cockney 
lady selling balloons; his appearance is a collectors' 
item. I'm not offended when someone says: "I like 
down-Easterners." I understand that my people have 
been complimented. It is very regional to say that you like Yankees. The blacks I like are as diverse as the American continent. 
I have just finished readngJames Baldwin'sAnother Country. The novel, I suspect, is dated in its language. If you're old enough to remember the Civil Rights Move~ ment, you've heard the language ofsuffering before. It becomes almost unbearable when a black woman telis off a white guy, saying again and again, "Whitey doesn't understand what it's like." It's true that I don't under­stand. Even without reading Ralph Ellison's the In­visible Man again, I can recognize that unspeakable crimes have been committed. 
Baldwin's characters move between Harlem and 
Greenwich Village, with interludes in some of the 
sleazier joints on 42nd street. I don't go up to Harlem. 
On an eveningwalk in summer, between midtown Man­
hattan and Washingn Square, I see the characters about 
whom I could write a Baldwin-like nm·el of my own· 
street-wise black kids who make it the hard way; with 
the things they are into, a lot of them will die young. 
Middle-aged people, doing jobs that demand nothing 
more than ignorance; the Civil Rights Movement came 
too late to make much difference. Old people 
familiar with the ancient humiliations. Cities are 
notorious for their indifference to the helpless classes; 
the blacks have more than their fair share of victims. It 
seems that way to me, without ever taking the"A" train 
to Harlem. 
Greenwich Village also has gifted, talented blacks, 
who have it made; young professonals; students going 
to New York University. A lot ofthem were there when 
Baldwin wrote his book. But in Washington Square, at 
eleven o'clock on Friday night, or in front of Penn Sta­
tion any night, it looks as ifMartin Luther King could 
have died in vain. 
I wonder how a black person feels when a politician 
cites the Holocaust as history's worst atrocity? Some 
preachers say that all ofus had a part in the hatred that 
killed theJews, and in the death ofJohn Kennedy. I 
wonder, ifI were black, if I would feel that way? I won­
der, ifIwere aJew full offear, ifl would feel any respon­
sibility for the suffering ofchildren, belonging to ~he 
ghettos where all the buildings have broken windows? 
Questions like these occur to you after you've finished 
reading novels byJames Baldwin. Foolish, profitless 
Rev. Robert Gtiffin letters to a lonely god 
questions in comparative suffering do come up, if you 
try putting yourself in some victim's place, to find out 
how unwanted he must feel as he looks for his little 
place under the merciless sun. 
In I940, at one of the colleges ofthe Ivy League, a black man entered a student bar, and ordered a drink. Without comment, the bartender served the man. But when he had finished drinking, the bartender picked up the glass he had used, and smashed it with a curse on the floor. Nowhere was it reported that the student who was regularly served in that place did any smashing to protest the smashing ofthe black man's glass. 
In the days when the great Father O'Hara, later Car­dinal O'Hara, was president ofNore Dame, black stu­dents were not admitted. O'Hara, according to his biographer, Father McAvoy, felt the time had not yet come. A fifth ofour students come from the Southern states, O'Hara said. It is better for them to come to Notre Dame than to attend the state colleges, where they could lose their souls. O'Haragrew with the years. 
Black people have better opportunities now. Part of the leadership of te Civil Rights Movement belongs to Father Hesburgh, eventual successsor to O'Hara, who left to become bishop in I940. The first blacks came to Notre Dame during World War II, at the decision ofa wonderful priest named Howard Kenna. Nobody wants to hear again the stale passionate rhetoric ofJames Baldwin in the early Sixties. What happens to the poor ofall races in New York City is something merely sociological called the urban crisis. A Southern writer, William Faulkner, characterized the problem in the religious imagery oflost innocence and original justice. The sins ofthe parents shall be visited onto the chilren unto the third and fourth generation. 
Nothing can change history. Guilt comes, not be­cause a generation is responsible for past history, but because a generation allows history to repeat itself. 
A white student, speaking ofblacks, says with inten­sity: "They're just as good as we are." "Just as good" is superiority speaking down to candidates who have qualified for membership in an exclusive club. The next step would be to tell blacks that they are a credit to their race, the way they used to do withJoe Louis. 
Nobody asked my opinion. I just happened to read a twenty year old novel, and wonder how much things have changed. Young, gifted and talented blacks still destroy themselves, because they think they are not good enough. They would stand a better chance ifthey hadn't grown up in Harlem. 
A young person should be free to pursue his or her dreams, without carrying the burdens ofhistory: the white man's burden, the black man's burden, the atrocities committed in the death camps. It's wrong to lay the sins ofthe fathers onto the children, or define any person's responsibility. 
Before you tell me to get offyour back, please tell James Baldwin to get offmy back. Books like his remind me ofthe days ofSelma when so many ofus, having little to risk, held hands with our brothers and sisters, singing "WE Shall Overcome." 
It would be a great pity to think we overcame all that much. A glance at Manhattan streets in the summer can tell any fifty-six year old man that the work ofovercom­ing is just beginning. 

················································································•······ 
JII)]g~l:P ®~ill ill®~~Lm lli::DT~llCO IIDLm~LmCO~IT\ru rr~ ~)a am rnLm~~ ~ ~®CDJ0IL ffi®COmo 
~[nl~ TI'®Wffi ~:n,~(f} :.1~~ 
~&-niDO®rn ~:EWID~ ~® fr:rn:m ®ill~~ffi\Y:Elli :F\Dlli ffi3l~ll\SY 


•MOVIES 

The Saint Mary's Student Activities Programming Board begins its season with the first part ofthe horror trilogy,Friday the 13th. As we all know, the newest addition to the continuing saga ofbloody gore has been billed as the "ultimate" in horror films because it is so real that the audience feels the killer could jump out ofthe screen and lay siege at random. The original film (remember, its success is what prompted the producers to come out with a clone ofthe original which itselfwas cloned in the third edition) is presented tonight at midnight in Carroll Hall. Ifthe expense ofbooks has depleted your bank account and funds seems to be very short, don't worry. This one is free. 
As I said previously, there is a movie for everyone this weekend. Being There will be shown in the Engineering Auditorium tonight at 7, 9: I5 and II:30 pm. The Student Union is sponsoring one of Peter Sellers best films, one that has been much overlooked by popular audiences. The story concerns a man named Chance who has worked in his master's household until the master's death. We pick up the story at this point and watch the feeble-minded Chance rise in the respect ofthe learned and wealthy. Most ofus are familiar with Sellers because ofthe Pink Panther series in which he starred. Few are aware ofthe range oftalent ofthis.actor because ofthe rarity of performances in which his craft and skill was required. This movie is 
one ofthose rare occasions when Sellers takes over the screen and commands it with his skillful powers. 
Saturday night The Muppet Movie takes the screen in the Engineering Auditorium. Whether you come at 7, 9 or II, be prepared to enjoy the antics of the creations ofJim Henson and his company ofmuppeteers. This movie has been on campus before and every time these college age adult students come, they seem to regress to early first grade. Amazing. 
At Chautauqua, the movie, Tbe Song Remains the Same starring Led Zeppelin in concert will be shown tonight at I 0 and I2 pm. Billed as "I98I's Rocker ofthe Year," this film is for all of those Led Zeppelin groupies and not-so Led Zeppelin groupies. This flick is the 
perfect late night show. Rock and roll is the way to go. 
As a part of the continuing Friday Night Film Series, the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Communication and Theatre Department will present a I979 Federico Fellini film entitled, Orchestra Rehearsal. Any italian speaking members ofthe audience will enjoy hearing the dialogue in that language but for those who do not have a copy of their italian grammar and dictionary close at hand, subtitles will have to suffice. Fellini's controversial film was inspired in part by the Aldo Moro kidnapping and in that, takes a metaphorical look at the politics and chaos of Western civilization. Showtime is 7:30pm in the Annenberg Auditorium ofthe Snite Museum ofArt. Tickets cost 
$2.00. 
•ART 

The temporary exhibitions in the Snite Museum continue this weekend. The twentieth century sculptors' drawings collection, borrowed from the Museum of Modern Art, will remain on display. Saint Mary's galleries will be dark until next Friday while they prepare for the opening oftwo new exhibits. Off-campus at the Art Center, Inc., The 1982 Art CenterFaculty Exhibit opens to the public at I2 noon on Sunday. This annual exhibit ofwork by artists in the teaching community at the Art Center is an opportunity for the public to become familiar with the range oftalent among their faculty members. All media are represented in this exhibit. The Art Center is located at I20 South St. Joseph Street and is open I2:30 to 4 pm Tuesday through Friday and I2 to 5 pm Saturday and Sunday. 
•MUSIC 

Saturday night at the ACC, Barbara Mandrell will be churning out those tunes that have made her the queen ofcountry. Her notoriety has spread immensely since she took on the duties ofa weekly televi­sion variety show for NBC. Known for her smooth voice and ex­tensive instrumental talents, Mandrell's concert could be one of the best pieces ofwholesome entertainment to hit the ACC. The opening act for this show is not to be overlooked. Where some openers look to the big names to give them exposure and familiarize the audience with their sound, this opening act could stand on its ovin. Ricky Skaggs will set the pace for Mandrell with his trendset­ting style ofpalatable blue-grass music. Previously with Emmy Lou Harris's band, Skaggs has had two consecutive number one hits in the last two months. His success has not gone unnoticed by the Country Music Association which has nominated him for five CMA awards including the top award, Entertainer ofthe Year. Very few class entertainment acts such as this hit the Ace. Do not miss this 
one. 

Finally, for those who wish to spend some time listening to the strainsofa concert violinist, Michael Davis will be playing in the An­nenberg Auditorium at 4 pm Sunday. On Monday afternoon at the same time, he will be conducting a workshop in Annenberg. 
.-------------------------~-----~------~~----------~~---~-~-------­
, 



~j)()fitS=fJ==·~==t=·(3~~S===============================Fr=id=a=y,=S=ep=t=em*b=e=r=l=O,=l=98=2===p=ag=e=1==2 
By The Obsen•er and The Associated Press 
The ND Women's Fastpitch Softball lnterhall·football signups will take place this week,
Club will hold a manditory meeting for anyone interested in but will be conducted within the individual dormitories. For more playing softball this season on Monday, September 13 at 7 p.m. in the information, contact your dorm's athletic commissioner or call the Lewis Hall basement. Contact Chris Callahan at 3847 ifyou have any new 24-hour NVA phone line at 239-5100. -The Observer questions. -The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame wrestling 
team will begin mandatory conditioning workouts Monday, Septem­A road run for women, the first ever in South ber 13 at 4 p.m. in the wrestling room at the ACC. Freshman notBend, will be held this Sunday, September 12, at 2 p.m. on the Saint already signed up are especially requested to attend. For more in­Mary's campus. The five-kilometer event will be sponsored in part formation call Brother joe Bruno at 239-7454. -The Observerby the Saint Mary's Athletic Department. More information on 
registration fees, prizes, etc., can be obtained by calling 272-7565. ­
The Observer 

Off-campus studentsinterested in coaching any o­c teams this fall are asked to contact Mick DePaolo, the off-campus 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes athletic commissioner, at 234-5556 for information regarding fees, will hold their first weekly meeting Monday night at 7 p.m. in the insurance, deadlines, etc. -The Observer Howard Hall social space. All are invited to attend. -The Observer 
,.. 

Notre Dame basketball greats Adrian Dantley, Kelly Tripucka and Austin Carr, and 15 other former Notre Dame
The men's soccer team will be on the road this 
players will'be returning to the ACC September 18 to participate inweekend as they seek to improve upon their 1-0 record. The Irish the Logan Center Benifit Basketball Game. The game is being or­will be participating in the Rochester tournament along with ganized by Notre Dame assistant basketball coaches Gary BrokawSyracuse, Georgetown and host Rochester University. The squad's and john Shumate, both former Irish All-Americans who will play in first game will be tonight at 7 p.m~ with the second and final round the game. "It will be a great opportunity for all of us to help give
following on yesterday. -The Observer. 
something back to the South Bend community and enable local fans to do the same," said Brokaw. Tip-off is set for 1 p.m. on Saturday, September 18, just seven hours before Notre Dame opens its 1982
The newly formed Notre Dame Hang Gliding cluh football season against Michigan at Notre Dame stadium. Tickets are please call Ted Tocrne at 287-7717 for organizational information. S6 in the lower arena and S4 for upper arena. Tickets are selling fast -The Observer at Gate 10 ofthe ACC. -The Observer 
Aerobics exercise classes, sponsored by Non-Varsity Ath­New deadlines have been announced by the office of letics, begin this week in the ACC Concourse Gym 1. Student classes Non-Varsity Athletics. Deadlines for grad football, the golfteam tour­meet 4-4:30 p.m. on Monday/Wednesday or Tuesday/Thursday. ney, men's interhall soccer, outdoor volleyball, and co-ree water There is a S3.00 fee for the seven-week course. Classes for faculty polo are Tuesday, September 14. The deadline for entry in the inter­and staff meet 5:15 to 5:45p.m. on Tuesday and Thursday. The fee is hall cross-country meet for men and women is September 21. -The 
S12.00 for seven weeks. Some classes begin today. -The Observer Observer 
BASEBALL 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

East  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
St. LOUIS  78  60  565  
Philadelphia  78  61  561  .5  
Montreal  74  65  .532  4.5  
Pittsburgh  74  65  532  4.5  
Ch1cago  61  79  436  18  
New York  54  83  .394  23.5  
West  
Atlanta  78  62  .557  
Los Angeles  77  64  .546  1.5  
San D1ego  73  67  521  4.5  
San Franc1sco  72  68  514  6  
Houston  65  75  464  13  
Cinc1nnat1  52  88  .374  26  

Yesterday's Results San Francisco 5, Houston 1 San Diego 4, Cincinnati 1 Atlanta 10, Los Angeles 3 Only games scheduled 

AMERICAN LEAGUE East w L Pet. GB 
Milwaukee 83 56 .597 Balt1more 78 59 569 4 Boston 77 558
61 5.5 Detr011 70 66 515 11.5 New York 70 67 511 12 Cleveland 66 70 485 15.5 Toronto 65 75 464 18 5 West KansasC1ty 79 60 568 California 77 62 .554 2 Ch1cago 74 64 536 4.5 Seattle 65 73 471 13.5 Oakland 59 81 .421 20.5 Texas 56 83 403 23 Minnesota 49 90 353 30 
Yesterday's Results Cleveland 3. Ba1t1more 0 New York 5. Milwaukee 4. 10 1nmngs 

Today'a Games Baltimore (McGregor 13·12) at Cleveland (Barker 12­11), n 
Milwaukee (Caldwell14-10) at New York (Gu1dry 14­
5). n. DetrOit (Morns 15-14) at Boston (Eckersley 12-10), n. Seattle (Perry 7-12) at Texas (Tanana 6-15), n Minnesota (Castillo 8-1 0) at Kansas C1ty (Blue 13-9), n. Toronto (Leal10-12) at Califorma. n. Ch1cago (Lamp 9·6) at Oakland (Noms 6-9), n. 
The Observer will accept classif1eds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4 30 p.m. However. class1fieds to appear 1n the next 1ssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to 1nsert1on All class1f1eds must be prepaid. 
e1ther in person or through the mall. 





Classifieds 
NEE:UED ONE STUDENT MICHIGAN Will trade 2-4 M1ch GAs tor 2-4 Pitt GA"s 

' I need 2·6 GA tkts to Mich game Tim 288-Excuse me I JUSt want to remmd you that TICKET NAME YOUR PRICE! CALL Call AL 3543 
0725 MOLARITY: NO OUTLET the book byCLAUDIA AT 4559 
that now departed cartoonist Michael
I.__No_T_Ic_Es----~1 I.___Fo_R_R_EN_T---~ 
Desperately need 2 PURDUE GAs Students-Student wants to trade 2 M1 stu­Mohnelh IS now available 1n the bookstore 

NEED 4 MICH AND 2 PURDUE GAS -Parents want to see the lnsh Please help 

dent tickets & cash tor 2 M1 Ga s so my for only $2.95 It's b1gger but we kept the IMPROVE YOUR GRADES' Research Pnvate room, share kitchen. bath, parents can come see the game. Please cost down Thank you for your t1me. We
WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR! KEVIN 1770 Call277-7415 

catalog · 306 pages-10,278 top1cs-Rush laundry, livmg areas wtth other students call Bob-288-8402 now JOin our regularly scheduled per­$1 DO to Box 25097C, Los Angeles. Walk to campus. half block to bus. 605. N. sonals now 1n progress
wanted: tix for e1ther the m1ch1gan and/or NEED 2 GA OR STUDENT TIX FOR 
purdue home football games. w1ll pay bux PURDUE GAME!! CALL MARTHA 3727 

90025. (213) 477-8226 Oest1ned for elim1nat10n 1f I don t come up
St Peter. 288-3942 deluxe! call matt 277·4573. 
w1th 1 student or GA t1cke t tor M1ch MOLARITY: NO OUTLET 
NEED TICKETS I need 1 m1ch1gan stu· game. Call Kev1n at 1441 .Almost funny Furnished home, 2 blocks from campus. 

dent t1x, three purdue GAs. Please call Also country house. 10 m1ns. from NO HELP I My parents have moved and wont BRIAN at 1064 $$$$$$$ 

IS YOUR HAIR GETTING IN THE WAY NEED FOUR MICHIGAN GA TICKETS
Call277-3604 or 288-0955 tell me the forwarding address unt1l I can
OF YOUR STUDIES?? CALL MICHOLE CALL Pat: 277-1836! MOVING SALE -17989 Edgewood Walk 
come up w1th 2 M1am1 GAs and 1 M1am1 FOOTBALL FANATIC FROSH WANTS

FOR A HAIRCUT TODAY! ONLY $4 FOR (Douglas east to Ironwood. turn north to
student t1cket If you can help me out. call PURDUE-ALUMNUS DAD TO SEE HIS

GUYS AND $6 FOR GIRLS BEST TO ATTENTION Need l1ckets to M1ch1gan first street). Sat & Sun. Sept 11 & 12. 10­
Tim at x8631 Thankst ALMA MATER BEATEN. NEED 1 OR 2

CALL AFTER 3 AT 7850 call Lou at 8760 or 8773 3. Furntture, electnc typewnter. stereo,
GA TIX. CALL JULIE 2724 

etc NEED 1 TIX FOR MICH GAME G A OR 
WANTED 
Need one student t1cket for Michigan. Call NEED TWO MICHIGAN GAs. WILLING

Learn Fly1ng for $350 Call277-6726 
John x3554 STUD MARK 287·5208 $$$ 
TO PAY YOUR PRICE. CALL PATTY AT 

Chautauqua needs bouncers. sound 
1319 

hHAVE2MICHGAS WILL TRADE FOR BEWARE ALL FEMALES!!! 
Improve Your Grades! Research catalog tech, and eqUipment managers. P1ck up I NEED 2 OR 3 MICH TIX. CALL JASPER 
2 PENN STATE.MIAMI.OR PURDUE TODAY IS SCOTT "PUNKER CUN­NEED GA"s FOR MICHIGAN. PURDUE.
··306 pages--10.278 applications 1n Student Union AT 277-3276. 
GA,S& CASHCALLJOHN 1188. NEEN S 21ST B-DAY THERE IS NO MICH ST. AND MIAMI. CALL CHRIS­
WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM $2995 NEEDED: TELLING WrlAT THIS "KID WILL DO 64K Microcomputer.letter quality pnnter. 2 STUDENT TICKETS FOR SEPT 25 Help! Mom & Dad are com1ng for their 1st 1730 IHAVE2MICH GASINHAND14ROW ONCE HIS SPIRITS ARE HIGH AND word process1ng software. CP/M, Bas1c. PURDUE GAME CALL ANNE 4057 or game 1n 4 years! 1"11 buy or trade tor 1 or 2 SEATS 1 AND 2 I WANT 4 PURDUE MIND IS BLOWN WHEN BABS IS 
2 GA M1ch1gan t1ckets: W1lling to trade or 

Call277-7720 CARRIE 4167 student or GA MICHIGAN tix. Please call GAS. CALL DAN AT 8905 THE MOR­AWAY , YOGI WILL PLAY! SO IF ANY 
sell tor 4 M1am1 t1ckets. Call Cath (SMC)

Jim at3211 RISON HOTEL WOMEN FEEL UP FOR IT (I M SURE HE
4435 

WILL). CALL THIS STUD AND ENGULF A LITTLE" OF HIS ENERGY".277-1806
ATTENTION ALL NEW AND OLD NEEDED: Need one Purdue Ticket Please call Bev 

$$$ NEED DESPERATELY 3 TIX TO ENJOY YOUR MANHOOD. C-MAN.

VOLUNTEERS .LOGAN CENTER 5 G.A"S FOR OCT 9 MIAMI GAME WILL at 284-4058 

ANY HOME FOOTBALL GAME WILL TEEV.& P-HEADSTARTS THIS SATURDAY, SEPT. 

NEGOTIATE COST CALL MAUREEN PAY MEGA BUCKS CALL MAURA AT11 .. be there!!! 
PERSONALS
5506 OR ANNE 4057 BIG BUCKS for 2 GA TIX S to PURDUE
4594 game ALSO sell1ng 1 STUDENT TIX to 
MICH! NEED 2 PAIR GAS-HELP! CALL 
PURDUE CALL ELAINE x 7951 

GIRLS. LOOK FOR THE CAVANAUGHATTENTION' THE GANG'S ALL HERE' ·or al least KEVIN at 1580 HALL SCAVENGER HUNT. COMING
MOLARITY LIVES/I 
HAWAIIAN CLUB MEETING at Need 1 M1ch1gan ticket Bad Real bad
they re gonna be here tor M1ch1gan SOON TO A DORMITORY NEAR YOU. 
LAFORTUNE BALLROOM ON SATUR­Oh God. do I need 1t bad Call 3273 and 
weekend! Need 10-13 Mich. lix, GA or 
Salespeople wanted for ScholastiC STU. Have some Miam1 GAs for tradeDAY SEPT. 11 AT5:00. ALL WELCOME! ask for Noofer advert1smg. If Interested, call Bnan al GIRLS. SCAVENGER HUNT! SCAVEN·BE THERE, ALOHA! BIG BUCKS!!' FOR TWO PENN STATE
call: Mike 4388 or Steve 1857 GER HUNT! CAVANAUGH HALL
1082. SATURDAY NIGHT! 
GAs MAKE OFFER AND GET RICH Need-2 GA M1am1 TIX call Ann 283-7740 
CAR PROBLEMS?? 

CALL 277·4043 I AM A QUALIFIED MECHANIC WITH HELPI I NEED 4 TIX FOR THE MIAMI 
A-Frames! THE GUYS IN GRACE 1 004 ARE TO­
A-Frames!
LOTS OF EXPERIENCE AND LOWER GAME SO MY DADS DRUNKEN TALLY OUTRAGEOUS! MIKE"S SO
A-FramesI STOKED!
RATES THAN ANY GARAGE!! CALL BUDDIES CAN JOIN IN THE FUN WITH 
MIKE IS WILLING TO PAY$60 PER G.A AT 1852 PRICE TODAY FOR A FREE ESTIMATE JOHN HIM CALL DAN 4603 NAME YOUR
FOR SALE] 
MICHIGAN TICKET. CALL 1589 How "bout them Braves: Amenca·s Team! Wealthy student desperalely needs 
NEED U·M V NO STUDENT TIX PAY$$ TOEM. 1977 MGB. yellow Good condition. Call CALL TOM at 232·2533 PLEASE COME BACK!!!! 
MICH student tix. Call Dan 6863 BOSTON CLUB Important organiZatiOnal 
MEETING MONDAY. SEPT 13 7 p.m NEED 2 GAS FOR MICH GAME CALL MIAMI GA TICKET. CALL LaFortune All interested must attend I LOVE YOU!! 
291-6713 after 5 Weekends anytime AND DONT STOP BELIEVIN !!!! 
NEED ONE 

77 VW Rabbit XCLNT Condition Call277-NANCY AT 1273 HAMIL AT 1527 TIVS 6726
LOST/FOUND 

BOSTON CLUB MEETING MON. 13th 7 
Need two M1ch GAs and w111 pay p m LaFortune Those upperclassmen
Need 2 t1x tor Purdue Call Rene at 284· 

megabucks Please call John at 8478 present for last year's organ meetmg ENMESHED IN THIS COSMOS used 1 semester, $175. 288-9347 typewnter. port elec , 3-step correct , 5458 Thanks 
must attend TopiCS· MICh game and LOST: A set of keys I NEED 1 OR 2 PURDUE GA TIX years actlvltoes Call m1ke 277-3276 11 WITH THE TALENTS BETWEEN US,
I have 2 MIAMI OF FLORIDA. ARIZONA. LOST A mega amount of keys on a key 4 ND-M1ch $50 Mel 277· PLEASE CALL MARK 8332 any problems AMONG US. AROUND US. EM­
tickets per and PURDUE llckels. Woll trade 2 of any nng w1th the name tag of Dave. Lost last 0692 one for 2 of another Call Scott X-3272 MBEDDED IN US.IT CAN BE ASSUMED Thurs. If found call 3673 FOR SALE. 4·6 Moch1gan t1ckets 1n Head1ng to the GREAT WHITE NORTH? TO BE OBVIOUS THAT NOT ONLY IS 
WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM, $2995. vanous locations Call Dave al 3673 Thos weekend to TORONTO? R1de EVERYTHING RELATIVE BUT
Dad wants to see rne play 1n the band' FOUND· One calculator. Call Gary 1223 64K Microcomputer. letter quality pnnter. anyt1me Need 2 GAs to Anzona. Penn or Purdue needed call 288-3002 INCREASINGLY REPETATIVE AND word process1ng software. CP/M, Bas1c Call Claire 6841 MEANINGLESS REALLY NOW YOU $100 cash reward offered for return of Call 277-7720 Need 1 M1c~ GA or Student lie · Doug WITH THE MENTALITY OF A COMMON 
QUIET PLEASE. I w1ll be resting t1l 6' 
6t66 SHEEP AND THE ANIMAL DESIRES OF SUitcase Large. Lark su1tcase w1th girl s WANTED: T1x tor M1am1 game on Oc1 9 
Dear Kevm. YOUR AVERAGE N D MALE Ma1n Circle bus shelter Please call 255-Desperately need two GAs now for M1am1 ry at 277-3067 I w1ll be th1nk1ng of you and pray1ng tor iALrHOUGH NOT ALWAYS CHAN· clothing lost on August 27 probably near Need at least 3 Name pnce and call Ger­
game B1g Bucks Call Joe 1469 you all day I know you can do 1! NELED IN SUCH HOMOGENEOUS Love. T DIRECTIONS) MUST TAKE IT TO BE 3068 TRADE I need 2 MICH GAs Will trade 2 
TICKETS 
Need M1ch student & Purdue GAs 289· SELF EVIDENT THAT LIFE IN THIS 7640 J1m Montgomery. horn-dog of 10th floor WILD WORLD REQUIRES THAT YOU GAs for any other home garne. 255·9971 
Lost or stolen. a b1fold wallet If you have Flanner IS a BIG 19 on Sal GirlS (esp NOT ALWAYS JUST LAY THERE LIKE th1s wallet please return 1t It conta1ns RICH FRIENDS NEED MICH GAS. Desperately need tour(4) GA and/or stu· lrosh) deliver your treats pronto or call YOUR AVERAGE MINERAL!!! 
IIV.ILL TRADE 2 MICH GAs FOR 4 GAs 
TO ANY OTHER HOME GAME CALL x3669

some th1ngs of great value to me. No NAME YOUR PRICE" CALL STEVE dent tickets for M1ch1gan game Please 1484 BABA BA questions w1ll be asked 1f it IS return. I w1ll 1553 call M1ke 8728 
g1ve a reward for your honesty. If you can All Females Interested 1n hav1ng a good TOP 20 TIME TUNNEL. STILL ON be of any help. please call Jim at 1380 Need 2 PURDUE GAS for parents. Call WILL PAY $35 FOR MICH STU TICK TIX FOR MIAMI GAME. CALL KATHY AT t1me, call 1740-anyt,me Were al N D to WSND AM 64 EVERY SUNDAY FROM Leslie 288-1734 (best late) JOHN 8172 1833 entertain each and every one of you 6·8PM 
NEED 3 TIX FOR PURDUE GAME AND 3 

The Observer Friday, September·10, 1982-page 13 
Baseball roundup 
Yankees outlasthot Bre-wers 
I Braves into a 1 ..-game lead over the IMumphrey homers· Dodgers in the National League Indians blank 0 's I 
West race. CLEVELAND (AP) -Ron Has­NEW YORK (AP) -Jerry Bob Horner and Glenn Hubbard sey's seventh-inning, two-run 
.I
Mumphrey clouted a one-out solo also smacked homers offDodger ace double snapped a scoreless tie andhomer in the lOth inning last night Fernando Valenzuela, 17-12. John Denny and Bud Andersonthat gave the New York Yankees a 
l
Benedict's second grand slam of his teamed up on a two-hitter last night5-4 victory over the Milwaukee career and his third homer this as the Cleveland Indians blanked the I 
Brewers. 
season came in the sixth, when At­Baltimore Orioles 3-0. 1Rudy May, 6-3, worked the final 2 
lanta started its rally with two out af­Denny held the Orioles to two 
I
1-3 innings for the victory. 
ter Valenzuela had retired 12 batters hits innings, striking out three and 
Reliever Pete Ladd, 1-2, struck out I
ina row. walking three. 
Willie Randolph to lead off the lOth l before Mumphrey slammed his seventh homer over the 385-foot sign in right-center. 
Archer, Sneed both lead 
Despite the loss, Milwaukee main­tained its four-game league in the American League East over the Bal­timore Orioles, who were shut out _§cotty Bower)

in PGA Boston Classic 
3-0 by Cleveland. 
Brewers right-hander Pete Vuck­SUTTON, Mass, (AP) -Veterans under-par for his first nine holes. ovich, in quest of his seventh 
George Archer and Ed Sneed Then, after the turn, he shot a 3­straight victory, worked the first charged home with 5-under-par 66s 
under 33 for his 66. nine innings, giving way to Ladd to and shared a one stroke, opening­
Sneed, who won his first tourna­start the 1Oth. round lead yesterday in the ment since 1977 last May in

5300,000 PGA Bank of Boston Golf The Best in
Houston, fired a consistent bogey­Classic. 

free 33-33 round. He had three Aged SteaksFinishing in late afternoon, Ar­
Braves clobber LA birdies on the front nine. Then, after 120 N. Main Street
cher, 42, and Sneed, 38, took the matching par from the 1Oth through
lead over 1981 NCAA champion Downtown, Mishawaka 
ATLANTA (AP) Bruce 
the 16 holes, he birdied the last two. Benedict's grand slam homer high­Ron Commans. Bob Gilder and john 255-7737 Fought as the 72-hole test got under "To shoot a good round, you
lighted a power outburst that 
for reservations way at Pleasant Valley Country Club. sometimes have to get lucky andcarried the Atlanta Braves to a 10-3 Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M_
save some pars," Archer said. "That'striumph over the Los Angeles Dinner 5:00P.M.

Archer, winner of nearly S 1.25 what happened to me on the eighth"
Dodgers on Thursday night. Closed Sundays & Holidays
The victory went to Rick Mahler, million on the tour but trying to -his 17th hole. "I drove into trees, 9-9, who allowed five hits and two snap a six-year victory drought, pitched out and then chipped in runs while working into the sixth in­
started on the 1Oth tee and was 2-from maybe 50 feet for par." ning. Steve Bedrosian went the rest of the way to gain his 1Oth save. The win completed asweep 'of a 
two-game series lifted 
--------------1 I
and the 

, , , Line I I I I 
continuedfrompage 16 

I NICKlES I 
Marshall, when he gets healthy, 
I I 
will battle for the starting nod, but should he lose out, he still most like­
I I 
ly will be used in passing situations 
I

because of his pure pass rushing I 
LIVE mUSIC

abilities. Backing up the two is red­I
I

shirred senior Pat Kramer. The shoulder that he injured last season I I is healthy, but he's still not in the 

I EVERY FRI&SAT I
condition that Blache would like to see him in after sitting out last I
I 

season. 
The line is rounded out by flip 'I tackle Mike Gann, a sophomore at 6­5 and 249 who has the muscle and 
I 

speed, but like Golic, lacks ex­
I

perience.Jerry Weinle (6-3, 238) is stronger than his numbers indicate I
·------------­




and should see playing time behind Gann. 
Coach Blache is careful in choos­ing his words when asked to describe the line as a unit. "I hope to see more quickness," he says. "I suspect we'll be quicker, but that has not been proven out. We'll just have to wait for Michigan and Purdue to see for sure." 
The line must generate a pass rush and its failure to do so last year often resulted in the big play for the op­position. Blache is a firm believer in the theory that the best pass defense is a strong rush, and if it takes fre­quent stunting by his linemen to generate it, Blache is prepared. Blache's goal is to get opponents to recognize the Notre Dame defensive line as being just as great and dominant as those in the past. 
A strong defensive front can carry the Irish a long way this season. Last year is over, but not forgotten. "It's a matter of proud athletes working hard to avenge what happened last season," says Blache. "Determination has been shown, but until they line up on the line of scrimmage, the jury is still out on them (the line)." 
Should the defensive line display the aggressive style that was the trademark of the great lines of the 70's, the jury ofNotre Dame football fans will quickly drop their charges stemming from last season. 

The Public Cafeteria 
in the South Dining Hall 

~'\~ ~~~ ~~ Friday Dinner Specialties from 4-7 pm 
r1sh &ChiPS 

ShRimp BISQU€ Soup .80 
wI taRtaR Sauce $1.65 0€€p ~R1€b Scallops $2.75 
Roast Leq oC Lams 

Bakoo cob ~1let w/ffilnt]ellyw/LemonButteR $1.70 
$1.95 Bak€b SWISS Steak $1.95 
\ 

The Observer Friday, September 10, 1982-page 14 

t f ' 
I 
I 
I 
ND-SMC Communications and Theatre Presents the friday night film series 
TQNJG H T Orcm~tnl Rehearael (1979) F~enco Feltrnt lt2.1y, Color. 72 
· In ltaltan wllh Engttsh subttUes The spectacle of the orchestra rehearsal becomes a metaphm lor the
Septembet 10 

current pollltcal chaos of Western crvthzatft:>n rn Felhnt's most dtrect com­ment on the contemporary scene stnce La Dolce Vtla CommJSSroned to make a shortl1lm taktng place tnstde a rehearsal room. Felhm dehvered an enormously controverstal and glonously funny bombshell rnsptred '" pari by the Aida Mora ktdnapptng 
7:30pm Annenberg Aud., Snite Museum 
A~missiQn S2 
.1'· 

IS BACK GO FOR IT! 

~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~
.... 

--> 
·­t attrntJOn PRI€StS &, Oe.acons! : 
t aR€ you Look104 ~oR an apostlat€? you can t ~ WORk With l0\'104 COUPl€S 10 S€RVIC€ ~OR th€ f f pR€-maRRI€b, thRouqh €nqaq€b €ncount€R. t 
t t
t Catholic €nqaq€b €ncount€R IS a W€€k€nb t t €XP€RI€nc€ to PR€PaR€ coupl€s ~oR a l1~€tlm€ , t comm1tm€nt. W€ n€€b you 10 ouR apostlat€. t 
f Pl€aS€ call us ~OR moR€ m~oRmat1on. t 
f t 
t John & P€44Y SWitZ€R 291-8887 f 




~----------------' 
·r­
Men'stennis semifinal 

Connors, Vilas advance in Open 
NEW YORK (AP) -Second­ scheduled for Sunday. Both finals  the match in the eighth game.  
seededJimmy Connors crushed col­ will be nationally televised by CBS.  
legian Rodney Harmon and No. 4  The singles champions will  Harmon then held serve, but Con­ 
Guillermo Vilas of Argentina easily  receive 590,000 each from a purse  nors came right back to hold serve  
eliminated Tom Gullikson yesterday  of Sl.5 million, the richest in tennis  and advance into the semifinals.  
to set up the final men's semifinal in  history.  Harmon, the first black to reach  
the U.S. Open Tennis Champion­ the U.S. Open quarterfinals since for­ 
ships.  The reigning Wimbledon cham­ mer champion Arthur Ashe lost in  
The reigning Wimbledon cham­ pion, who is seeking his fourth U.S.  the finals in 1972, said he received  
pion, who is seeking his fourth U.S.  Open crown, took only 1 hour, 33  some bad advice just before going  
Open crown, took only 1 hour, 33  minutes to crush Harmon 6-I, 6-3,  onto center court.  
minutes to crush Harmon 6-1, 6-3,  6-4.  "I listened to a couple ofpeople to  
6-4.  Reaching the semifinals for the  find how to play Connors, and it was  
Vilas, playing in a night match,  ninth straight year, Connors broke  wrong. I just should have played the  
rolled over Gullikson 6-2,6-1,6-3 on  Harmon in the fourth games of the  game I play well, which is to play all  
the hard courts of the National Ten­ second set and the opening game of  the aggressive way. I tried some  
nis Center. It is the first time Vilas  the hhird. He had a S-2 lead and was  things -a slice backhand -that  
has reached the semifinals since he  serving for the match when Harmon  was contrary to my game and uneasy  
captured the U.S. Open in 1977. But  broke Connors for the first time in  to play that way."  
America's premiere tennis event  
then was played on clay -Vilas's  
best surface-at the West Side Ten­nis Club in Forest Hills. In the other semifinal, defending  ... NFL  
champion John McEnroe will play  
Ivan Lendl ofCzechoslovakia.  
In yesterday's only final, Kevin Curren of South Africa and Steve  continuedfrom page 16  open the season at home against the Cleveland Browns.  
Denton combined to capture the  The Colts, too, took no strike vote,  
men's doubles, defeating Victor  pected today.  but player rep Mike Ozdowski said a  
Amaya and Hank Pfister 6-2,6-7, 5-7,  McCullum, waived last Monday,  strike by the Seahawks could trigger  
, 6-2, 6-4. Curren served an ace on the  the final cutdown day, was claimed  a job action in the opener against the  
seventh match point to finish the  by the Minnesota Vikings but  visiting New England Patriots.  
three-hour match.  declared himself a free agent. Orvis  In New York, the NFL manage­ 
Following a slew of upset"s, the  was cut the first day of training  ment Council, the owners' negotiat­ 
women's semifinals today will pit  camp.  ing team, met to consider the  
five-time champion Chris Evert  The teams have maintained the  responses to a boycott by Seattle,  
Lloyd against fourth-seeded Andrea  players ties with the union had no  Baltimore or any other team. One of  
Jaeger, while No. 5 Hana Mandlikova  bearing on the decision to cut them.  those responses, a spokesman said,  
of Czechoslovakia takes on No. 7  Fifty-four of Seattle's players,  could be a shutdown ofall games.  
Pam Shriver.  including those on injured reserve,  "There could be a whole range of  
Shriver upset top-seeded Martina  signed a petition Wednesday night  responses," Vince Lombardi Jr., as­ 
Navratilova, her close friend and  calling calling for McCullum's  sistant execntive director of the  
doubles partner, in the quarterfinals,  "immediate reinstatement," and  Management Council, said. "Calling  
while Mandlikova knocked off  saying if he isn't restored to the ros­ offgames could be one of them. We  
defending champion Tracy Austin.  ter, "a strike is an option." The  could ignore them, reschedule  
The women's final will be held  players said they would decide on a  them. . ..Let's say we're prepared  
tomorrow, with the men's final in  course of action either tonight or  to take action, but there's no point in  
America's premier tennis event  tomorrow. The Seahawks are to  showing our hand.  

~------~----------·---~~----------~------~ --~~-~--------------­

Friday, September 10, 1982 -page 15 
Doonesbury 





&'lt·SVE Mo"M'f AAI> DNDY, tAt..l. M£ ~rN "ffJfL ~T Hor1£! 
The Daily Crossword 


Wtil, IW, ACTVAUY, 7HAT'5 NOT 7l?JJ&. OICK'5 UNCLe ORVIU.& CAM& 0/ffOF 7Ht C/..05tT LA~ 
YEAR. H&'5 A ft[J&RAL. JU[X3(3. 

ACROSS 27 Heraldic 1 Mennonites red 6 Ball or boy 28 Panama hat 
10 Horse 30 Batter's 14 Round or concern 
square 33 Lawyer 15 Fjord city 36 Ascend 16 Author 37 Small 
Ludwig particles 17 Place of 38 Ear: pre!. worship 39 Leo and 18 Nilequeen, Paul for short 40 Two-wheeled 19 Gown carria~es 
material 41 Flowers 20 Attic 43 "-was 22 Set on saying" 
fire 44 Ra-ised the 24 Pitching nap on stat cloth 25 Apex 46 Begin 



Garry Trudeau 


Campus 
Friday, Sept. 10 

•12:30 
p.m. -Govt. A: Intern'l Studies Collo­quium, "Post Industrial Political Systems", Prof. Peter Moody, Notre Dame, 1201 Memorial library, Open to the public 

•3:30p.m. 
-Philosophy Colloquium, "A Scotistic Argument for the Existence of a First Cause" Prof. Michael Loux, Notre Dame, library Lounge 

•3:30 
p.m. -Workshop, "Public Policy in the 1980's: An Overview of Issues" Dr. Gar Alperovitz, 331 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by Department ofEconomics 

•7, 
9:15, and 11:30 -Film, "Being There", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by NO Stu­dent Union, S 1.00 

•7:30 
p.m. -ND%SMCJunior Class River Boat Cruise, Elkart River Queen, Sponsored by ND/SMCJunior Class, SS.OO per person 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, "Orchestra Rehearsal", Annen­berg Auditorium 

•9 
p.m.-Coffee, SMC Clubhouse, Sponsored by SAPB 

•10 
p.m. and 12 am.-Film, "The Song Remains the Same", Chautauqua Coffeehouse (LaFortune Ballroom), Sponsored by NO Student Union 

•12 
am.-Film, "Friday the 13th", Carroll Hall, 


Saint Mary's College, Sponsored by SAPB, Free Saturday, Sept. 11 
•s 
a.m. -Medical College Admissions Test, Engineering Auditorium 

•12 
p.m. -Junior Class Canoe Trip, Leeper Park, Sponsored by ND/SMC Junior Class, SIO.OO per Canoe 

•s 
p.m. -Meeting, Hawaiian Club Organization­al Meeting, LaFortune Ballroom, All are Welcome 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. ~ Film, "Muppet Movie", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by NO Stu­dent Union, Sl.OO 

•8 
p.m. -Concert, Barbara Mandrell, ACC, 


Sll.OO per person Sunday, Sept. 12 
•9 
& 10:30 a.m. and 12:15-Mass, Sacred Heart Church, 

•12 
p.m. -Charity Car Wash, AI Veldman's Stan­dard/Roseland Standard, Sponsored by ND/SMC Junior Class, S1.50 per car 

•4 
p.m. -Concert, Michael Davis, Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Music Department 

•7 
p.m. -General Meeting, World Hunger Coalition, Library Lounge 


T.V. Tonight 
7p.m. 

7:30p.m. 8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 
lOp.m. 

!0:30p.m. 
llp.m. 11:30p.m. 
16 Chips 
22 Dukes of Hazzard 
28 Benson 
34 Lugar/Fithian Debate 
28 Making a Living 
16 The Manin Chronicles 
22 Dallas 
28 Greatest American Hero 
34 Washington Week in Review 
34 Wall Street Week 
22 Falcon Crest 
28 Strike Force 
34 Hard Choices 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 The Dick Cavett Show 
16 Tonight Show 
22 U.S. Open Tennis 28 ABC News Night line 
34 Captioned ABC News 22 CBS Late Movie: "jackson County Jail" 28 Saturday Night with Sissy Spacek 16 Late Night with David Letterman 

;•••••••++•••••••••••••++••···························..·····••++••..................l~ior Bar ~CID~ IJJ~ ~CID~CE-rn~ ~~ ~ITQ]l CE-rn~i 
I ~ome He~==~f~~:~~~~ ~~~~CIDrn rn~ I 
• ~~---.•I !
• Sponsored by the Student Union nnd the Seni.ot Clnss · ~~:::::::ti!JI i 
J Doors open nt 9:30pm till 2:00nm j• 
t..~~~~'.i:····;.,...~···~·,.~~-· .....~'...-~.-. ·~· ~··> .~ . . 
• 
.... 
48 Family 
member 49 Monk 52 Farthest 55 Styleof 
type 57 Weather forecast 
58 Word with step or swipe 
60 "-a 
letter to ..." 61 CPA 62 City in 
Oklahoma 63 Farm birds 64 Not so much 65 NCOs 66 Alleviated 
DOWN 1 Proverb 2 Cheekbone 3 Within: 
pre!. 4 Wound mark 5 Unorthodox 
people 6 Ad­: 7 Ait or key 8 Scotch wool caps 9 Connection 10 lntermedi· ate 11 Between bow and stern 12 Small brook 
13 Sommerof the screen 21 Safari helmet 23 Stevedore group: abbr. 26 Beating, as a heart 28 Backus and 
Bunning 29 Days: Fr. 31 Words of 
understand· ing 
32 D'Urber· ville girl 33 Story of 
adventure 34 Elevator 
pioneer 35 Strategy 36 Crucifix 39 Influence 42 1052 44 Flat hat 45 Rubs out 47 Pale colors 49 Escapes 50 Light wash 51 Played 
a part 52 Russian 
river 53 Intertwine 54 Workon 
manuscripts 56 Cruising 59 Asnerand 
Ames 

-

Friday, September 10, 1982-page 16 

VVornen 7svolleyball 

Notre Dame outclasses IUSB 
By MIKE SULLIVAN hard shots,"said Van Slager, "and first. The Irish put on a spiking ex­Sports Writer IUSB didn't hit it very hard. It gave us hibition about halfway through the some problems. Also, we had game, clinching the match. 
The season opener for the Notre trouble returning their dinks (shots The opening game starters for the Dame women's volleyball team tipped just over the blockers)." Irish show that there is much hope turned out to be not much more If they had some trouble, it was for the future. Two freshmen, three than a practice as the Irish thrashed not evident in the first game. IUSB sophomores, and a junior comprised IUSB by scores of I 5-I, I 5-8, and I 5-scored on the first serve of the the lineup. 2 last night in the ACC Pit. match, but the Irish then reeled off The team can expect some real 
The victory shows just how far I 5 straight points for the game. competition this weekend when it women's volleyball at Notre Dame The second game included the travels to Ann Arbor for the Wol­has come in its three years of exist­only mediocre play of the match for verine Invitational. Other teams that ence. If the lopsided score is any in­the Irish. While the outcome of the are entered include Lake Superior dication, the progress is impressive. game was never in doubt, IUSB got State, Wayne State, Ferris State, IUSB, fielding its tirst volleyball within 11-8 before the Irish Grand Valley College, and Michigan. team ever, was totally outclassed, straightened themselves out. Because the team is guaranteed at making many of the same mistakes "We played some sloppy least six games, the tournament that the Irish team made in its initial defense," explained Van Slager. should show how greatly improved 
year when its record was 3-I9. The third game was similar to the the team really is. The Irish women, used to having 
shots come back at them very hard, have turned the tables. Their spikes were flying like thunderbolts, for­cing the IUSB women into poor 

NFL owners threaten 
returns. "I'm pleased with the way we 


to'-shut down' gatnes
played,"said Irish coach Sandy Van 

'Slager. "We wanted to see ifthe girls could handle all our offensive plays, ByBRUCELOWITT The waiving of the teams' player and they did. We also did not make Associated Press representatives, Sam McCullum of many errors on the serves which is the Seahawks and Herb Orvis of the something that we concentrated The National Football League Colts, triggered threats by the teams on." Players Association is cautioning to stage job actions unless the reps 
The team showed its new of­temperance and the league's club are reinstated by the clubs. 
fensive system early in the match. owners are considering shutting "We're trying to rein in everyone The system includes the use ofmany down the first weekend of games if at this point," Ed Garvey, executive fakes to divert the attention of the the Seattle Seahawks and Baltimore director of the union, told The As­opponent's defense. IUSB seemed to Colts go through with threatened sociated Press in a telephone inter­be puzzled by all the offensive move­strikes. view from Washington. "At this
julie Pierson (3) and Mary Mclaughlin (4) slam one back on 
ment and often was caught off­"Our executive committee last point, we're saying it's not the time
I. U.S.B. last night at the ACC Pit. The Irish won easily, I 5-1, 15-8, and 15-2. See Mike Sullivan's story at right. (Photo by Scotty 
guard, forcing many weak returns. night (Wednesday), in a conference for a selective strike. At the same I "The girls are used to returning call, decided they were not going to time, we recognize how disturbed
Bower) I 
call selective strikes, that there was Seattle's players are by this blatant
-.. 
not going to be any action taken action:"Fearsomefive during the first weekend," said Frank The union has filed an unfair labor 
W oschitz, press spokesman for the practice charge with the National union, said from Washington. Labor Relations Board over the cut­"We are trying to hold off the ting of Orvis and McCullum and is
Defensive line key to success 
teams (Seattle and Baltimore). awaiting a decision, which is ex-dominating defensive linemen. So We've told them, 'When we strike, if
By STEVE LABATE handle. According to Coach Blache, See NFL, page 14
Sports Writer the success of the I982 Fighting "Mansel Carter is playing the best we strike, we'll do it together."' Irish rests heavily on the strength on football ofhis career right now." ~=============== This past summer, some of you the defensive front. Blache also emphasized that the may have caught ESPN's "Best of Ifthe season were to begin tomor­three players will be utilized in dif­
Pitt squeezes by tough
Notre Dame Football" series and row, Blache would be starting Mike ferent situations so that the team can reacquainted yourselves with a few Golic at end, Bob Clasby at contain get the most out ofeach ofthem. ofthe heroes ofour youth. tackle, Jon Autry at the nose and. Switching from starting nose 
In particular, you may have Mike Gann at flip tackle. Golic, at tackle to the contain this year is 6-5, 
North Carolina by 1 
noticed the fearsome blocks of 6-5 and 243 pounds, brings to the 259-pound senior Bob Clasby. muscle that made up the defensive end position the quickness needed "Steady" is the word that Blache PITTSBURGH (AP) Dan eight plays after cornerback Walter lines ofthose teams: Patulski, Kadish to rush the passer and disrupt op­uses to decribe Clasby. Last season Marino whipped a 4-yard touch­Black's interception. and Fanning, among others. These tions and sweeps. Although he he was the second leading tackler down pass to tailback Bryan Thomas The game marked the debut of players were the intimidating forces played in I 0 games as a freshman, among linemen with 56, and his midway through the third quarter, Serafino "Foge" Fazio as Pitt's head 
that characterized the awesome Golic is still relatively inex­physical strength should anchor the capping Pitt's only sustained drive coach, as well as the first regular­Notre Dame defensive lines of the perienced as evidenced by the fact line. and giving the No. I-rated Panthers a season college football telecast in 19 '70s. that he made only six tackles last Clasby is backed up by sopho­sloppy 7-6 victory over fifth-ranked years by CBS-TV. 
Last year however, imposing year. more Jay Underwood (6-5, 252), North Carolina last night in the col­
· What had been billed as a contest
linemen like them were nowhere to Sharingplaying time with him will who saw action in two games last fall lege football opener for both teams. 
between high-powered offensesbe found, and the Irish plummeted be seasoned senior Kevin Griffith. and has shown great potential in Marino, who was intercepted four turned into a penalty-filledto a dismal 5-6 mark. That is not to With Griffith's knees now at full both spring and fall practices. times, completed four passes in as defensive struggle, with North say that the defensive line was strength, the Irish would lose no­A few weeks ago, the nose tackle many attempts for 45 yards as Pitt Carolina penalized 1 5 times and Pittentirely responsible, for that's hard­thing by going with Griffith should spot became one of great concern drove 69 yards in seven plays for the whistled for 13 infractions. 
ly the case, but as head defensive Golic prove to need further polish­when Tim Marshall went down with game's only touchdown. line coach Greg Blache points out, ing. a foot injury. But since that time, North Carolina had taken a 3-0 In addition to Marino's four inter­"Offense sells the tickets, but The depth at end this year is the junior Jon Autry ( 6-2, 235) has lead on the fourth play ofthe second ceptions, the Tar_Heels gave the ball defense wins the football games." best it has been for some time. Six­impressed coaches and now is the period when Brooks Barwick kicked away twice, once on a fumble and 
Emphasize the role ofthe quarter­foot-eight, 227-pound Mansel Carter scheduled starter for the Michigan a 39-yard field goal. The Tar Heels again on an interception by Panther back all you want, but national is also in competition with Golic and game next Saturday night. scored again with 4:57left, getting a linebacker Rich Kraynak at the championships are won with strong Grifi1th for playing time, and he's 48-yard field goal by Rob Rogers losers' 31 with I :4 7 remaining. defenses and, in particular, with giving the two of them all they can See LINE, page 13 


Bob Clasby Tim Marshall MikeGolic MikeGann ]on Autry 6-5,259, Sr. S-4, 255,Jr. 6-5, 242, Sr. 6-5, 249, So. 6-2, 235,]r. 







