~-------------~-----~ 
------------------------~------~-------­
• • • Columbia Page5 
----------·----------------------------------------'----------­
·­


Archbishop Oscar Romero. 
The peaceful crowd walked to St. joseph High School where they were met by more people. The mar­chers completed their walk with a small service at the Justice and Peace Center and a mass at St. Step-
hen's Church in downtown South 
Bend. 
Bishop William McManus spoke to the marchers at St. joseph and led the crowd in a prayer for peace in El 
Salvador. McManus later com­mented on the political state in El Salvador, comparing it to our own Civil War. McManus believes that El Salvador can "iron out its own dif­ficulties" without intervention by the United States. 
McManus added that the United 
States must provide Latin American 
W ASIIINGTON (AP) The these tired controllers might be Reagan administration said yester­reinstated. day it rehired three air traffic con­Linda Gosdt:n, spokeswoman for trollers to the flight system, but Transportation Secretary Drew insisted it was not reversing a Lewis, declared, "There has been ab­general policy barring reinstate­solutely no change in President ment~. Reagan's or Secretary Lewis' posi­
White House spokesman David tion on rehiring the striking control­Gcr~otcn said ht: assumed any control­lers. lers rehired were found to have "We have said we will always look bet·n victims of harrassmt:nt in tht: at those cases," she said, "where the strike. "I am not aware ofany change people may have been harrassed or 
OfRomero's death 
Marchers remetnber anniversary 
---------------------------------­
By VIC SCIULLI 
Nigbt News Editor 
Bearing "Archbishop Romero Man of Peace" and "Reagan Herod" banners, a crowd of 40 people marched from Sacred Heart Church to downtown South Bend yesterday, commemorating the. 
second anniversary of the death of 
cominued military suppon will only exacerbate the present problems. "There is a crying need for help. There is a need to restore the Peace Corps. The Soviets are influential with people -the U.S. is influential with military aid." 
"There can not be a military solu­tion for a non-military problem," 
said marcher Angelo Capozzi. Uke mary of the marchers, he does not foresee an improvement in El Sal­vador after Sunday's elections. 
Another marcher, Charlie Fletchinger said,"Even if the gueril­las overthrow the government, there will still be a minority running the government in ;t country where people are uneducated in democracy." 
Described by most as "the lesser 
countries with educators and that of two evils" in the elections, the 
President rehires air traffic controllers 
reinstated controllers worked in the only off the record because of litiga­Great Lakes region and in the Atlanta tion pending before the Merit Sys­area. He did not identify the others. tems Protection Board. 
Transportation Department offi­jeff Miller, a spokesman for Lewis, cials, declining to be quoted by said "in a small number ofcases," the name, said they expected no more government might choose to than "a couple hundred" reinstate­reinstate fired controllers rather ments among the 1,000 controllers than risk losing appeals filed with 
whose hardship cases are being the merit review panel. reviewed. 
See REAGAN, page 6
These officials said they could talk marchers believe that a Christian Democrat victory is the best hope for El Salvador. A rightist victory it is believed, will increase the killing in the country. 
Fr. Hesburgh was criticized by the marchers for his decision to su­pervise the elections in El Salvador, believing there can not be a free 
I 
Hesburgh won 't see any fraud in the elections 
because the biggestfraud, the boycott of the 
election by the left, has already taken place.' 
election when one of tht: three parties is not participating. 
"Hesburgh •von't see any fraud in the elections because the biggest fraud, the boycott of the election by the left, has already taken place," said joe Regotti of the Notre Dame El Salvador Solidarity Group. "There will be no chance to get a feeling of the real mood in the country. The best thing would have been a refusal to participate with the State Depart­
ment  as  an  observer of the  elec­ 
tions."  
Solidarity  group  members  who  

have met with Hesburgh believe that he doesn't see himself in the State Department's legitimization strategy. According to them, the State Department is using Hesburgh, "a man of the church" to make it ap­pear that the elections art: legitimate. This legitimization, many fear will make the United States jus­tify continued military support for the country. 
A national El Salvador Solidarity Rally and March will occur in Chicago on the eve ofthe election. 
in policy," he said. 
The Fcdt·ral Aviation Administra­tion acknowledged that it rehired joan Plummer, an air trall1c control­ler from San Antonio, Texas, who was among I 1,';00 striking control­lers President Reagan tirt·d in August for ignoring his order to return to work within -tH hours. It also con­lirmt·d that two other~ have been rehired. Spokesman Fred Farrar also said the FAA is reviewing I,000 such "hardship cases" and that "some of' 
intimidated (into joining the strike)." 
Farrar emphasized that Plummer would not be returning to her tlight tower job at the Fort Worth Air Route Traffic Control Center. She would work at the Houston Air Route Traffic Center, he said, one of several such facilities that direct airplanes in tlight corridors between 
airports,  hut not  at  the  airports  
themselves.  
Farrar  said  the  other  two  

Candidate claims budget unfairto students 
programs are going to succeed. He By KELLI FLINT will never be able to balance the Execulir'e Neu•s Editor budget, -cut taxes, and increase 
military spending. Congress is paying "lip service" to "Reagan says he is trying to cut his 
the people of America, and has no delicit back, but his promise was to intention of balancing the budget, balance the budget by 1984." Indiana Congressional candidate Father Hesburgh should speak out 
Thomas Ward said yesterday. against the budget cuts, according to Ward said he doesn't think stu­Ward. "This is one of the mandates dent loans should be cut. ofa Chistian institution," he said. 
"The way I was able to attend "If they don't do this, how can Notre Dame and Law school was they expect their graduates to go in­through loam and scholarships. to the world, speak out and act when Without this aid, I might not have they sec injustice?" been able to become a lawyer." Ward favors verbal protest against 
Ward predicts that "things art: the student-aid cuts. "Members of going to get worst: (economically) the Reagan administration won't before they get better" in America. 
See CANDIDATE, page 6
"I don't ·think (Reagan's) 
Central Amenca 
Senator argues U.S. policy 
By KAREN MIRANDA 
StajfReporter 
Indiana Statt: Senator and U.S. Senate candidate Mike 
Kendall spoke last night against the present U.S. foreign 
policy in Central America. 
The three-time Notre Dame graduate cited the error of U.S. policy as an inaccurate view of the situation. "To describe the struggle as one between capitalism and communism is missing the boat," Kendall said. 
He delines the contlict in El Salvador as between the general population and the oligarchy that has con­trolled the land and families for generations, "regardless of the ideological struggle which is or is not going on in the rest of the world." 
He terms the "capitalism versus communism" men­
tality as a misunderstanding ofthe societies with which 
the U.S. is trying to deaL 
"We do not need to befriend or embrace every 
regime that simply agrees to oppose or hate nations that 
we are hostile towards. It is a disastrous foreign policy 
in my judgement." 
Kendall said he does not consider the communist­backed factions in Central America as an inevitable in­dication of future communist rule, but rather of an operative government which involves all political parties. 
The dangers ofcontinued military aid to El Salvador, as Kendall sees them, are an alienation of the general population towards the U.S., increased military opposi­tion by guerrillas via backing from Cuba and the Soviets, and an inevitable and embarassing'withdrawru of the 
U.S. after the fall of the present government. 
Kendall predicted that with or without U.S. military 
aid, Duarte's government would fall within a year. 
His solution is a three-point change of policy by the 
li.S. 
First, the U.S. should commit itself to non­
intervention in Central America, and immediately 
withdraw all military aid. 
Second, economic aid to these countries should be 
continued, and development within the countries en­
couraged. 
Finally, this aid should be conditioned by negotiation 
and settlement between all political parties. 
The Senator cited the foreign administrations of Thatcher in England, Mitterand in France, and Kresky in Germany all as Western world powers that have succeeded in remaining neutral in the Central American question, despite involvement there by communist-backed factions. 
Kendall also mentioned his opinion that the C.I.A. has an obligation to answer various accusations by politicians and the news media about its involvement in Nicaragua, and should either contirm or deny its ac­tions. 
The role of the C.I.A., he says, should be as an intel­ligence gathering arm, leaving the civilian government to make decisions on military involvement. 
Kendall, a State Senator for three years in In­dianapolis, resides with his wife and two children in jasper. 
His campaign offices are in Indianapolis, jasper, and South Bend, and he welcomes any help from students. Those interested can contact Students for Kendall on campus through Tom Gruscinski. 
---------~-------~ 
NewsBrie_b 
Hy The Obserz,er and The Associated Press 
Nicaraguan junta leader Daniel orega told the Security Council yesterday his Sandinista government, Cuba and leftist Salvador rebels were ready for immediate talks with the United States to settle differences. Ortega, who has repeatedly accused Washington of plotting a Central American invasion, addressed a special council session convened at his urgent request.' 
U.S. Ambassador Jeane ). Kirkpatrick, president of the council for March, said Washington was skeptical about Nicaragua's avowed in­terest in peace while it serves as "an active conduit" for the flow of war materiel to El Salvador and its other neighbors. Nicaragua has denied the American allegation. Mrs. Kirkpatrick told reporters later she did not want to comment on Ortega's peace proposals until she 
had time to study them. In her address to the council, she called Ortega's charges ofan impending U.S.-backed invasion ofNicaragua "as extravagant as they are baseless." Ortega demanded that the Reagan administration "voice its commitment not to attack Nicaragua" and stop what he said was the U.S. policy ofaiding armed Nicaraguan exiles in Honduras and the United States. Nicaragua has accused the CIA ofsupporting and financing armed bands ofexiles operating inside neighboring Honduras. -AP 
Leftist guerrillaslaunched hit-and-run attacks near El Salvador's election headquarters and outside the capital yesterday in a new drive to wreck the Constitutent Assembly voting. The guerril­las fought to within a few hundred yards of the Central Elections Council building in a six-hour attack that began about midnight and ended with the rebels withdrawing under government fire. Shooting also erupted for a second day on a mountain overlooking the prin­cipal air base outside the capital, and the government confirmed a rebel radio broadcast that guerrillas had captured the town ofYoloa­quin and three surrounding villages in Morazan province, 100 miles east ofSan Salvador. The Defense Ministry spokesman, Col. Eusebio Coto, said eight soldiers were killed, that the rebels remained in control ofthe Yoloaquin area and that the army had dispatched rein­forcements for a counterattack. The National Guard said the guerril­
las also marched through three villages near the town of San Sebastian and had occupied a radio station in Santa Ana, .the country's second biggest city, and broadcast warnings to the people not to vote in the elections Sunday. -AP 
Masked.Arabshurled grenades at an Israeli army vehicle yesterday, killing one soldier and wounding three others after military authorities fired the two top Palestinian mayors in the oc­cupied West Bank of the Jordan. Three Arab bystanders also were wounded in the grenade attack in the occupied Gaza Strip, and the ambushers fled into a nearby orange grove, the military command said. The Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestin, in a state­ment released in Beirut, claimed responsibility for the ambush. Sgt. Pinhas Grossmark, 30, was the first Israeli killed in a week of Pales­tinian rioting. Five Arabs have been killed by Israeli gunfire, and two others died Wednesday in an explosion apparently set off accidental­ly while they were making a bomb. -AP 
President Reagan thanked Italian President 
Sandro Pertini yesterday for the rescue of Brig. Gen. James Dozier from Red Brigade kidnappers, and called terrorism "every bit as threatening to freedom and independence as foreign tanks or nuclear missiles." In an elaborate welcoming ceremony on the White House south lawn and in private meetings later, the two leaders celebrated the bonds between the United States and Italy and each other's dedication to the principles of democracy and freedom. A senior administration official said Reagan and Pertini formed "a mutual admiration society." The official, who declined to be identified, said there was a "light motif' to their talks and no mention by Pertini of his opposition to U.S. policies in Central America, and particularly in El Salvador. Pertini, who spent more lhan a dozen years in prison for fighting fascim and the regime of Benito Mussolini, was greeted at the White House with a 21-gun salute and fanfare oftrumpets.-AP 
Six new directors of the University of Notre Dame Alumni Association were elected this week to the national board and will attend their first session on April 29. The 65,000 member as­sociation is governed by a nationally representative board of 18 members, serving three-year terms. Atty. John). Burke III, a 1969 
graduate residing in San Diego, Calif., was named to represent West Coast states. He is an attorney for Hughes Aircraft Co. and professor of business at National University. A 1960 business administration graduate and current vice president of Detroit Bank and Trust Co., Terrence E. Keating of Bloomfield Hills, Mich., was named to represent the upper Midwest area. George Q. Evans, an attorney and partner in a Jackson, Miss., law firm, was elected from Region 14. He is a 1963 graduate in business administration. Dr. Patrick). Barrett, a 
1951 science graduate, is director-designate for Minnesota and other northern states. He is president ofthe medical staff ofSt. Mary's Hospital in Minneapolis. Representing the New Jersey area will be Richard). Byrne, president of Walter C. Hurley Construction Co., Shrewsbury. He was graduated in 1952, majoring in business ad-, ministration. Elected as an at-large director, representing students who have graduated in the last five years, is Hal P. Munger, a Toledo, Ohio architect. He is a 1978 graduate and a third generation Notre Dame graduate. -The Observer 
Today cloudy breezy and coldwith chance ofsnow flurries. High in the low and mid 30s. Friday night clearing and colder. Low in the mid and upper teens. Tomorrow increasing cloudiness. High in the mid and upper 30s. Probablity of snow 40 percent today. -AP 
Friday, March 26, 1982 -page 2 
Pangborn decision 'lawful' 

There are usually two sides to every battle between the administration and students. Unfortunately, one side often pleads "no comment" and the other, "not fair." 
The recent episode of the expulsion offive Pangborn students from their dorm on Wednesday, March 10, saw responses similar to these. It is easy to take sides where sentiment lies. It is even easier to take sides without knowing the facts. Often these facts are blurred. But the laws ofthe University are starkly black and white. 
There is no question that the laws of the University regarding the policy in this matter were followed. The question can only be raised with respect to the fairness ofthese laws, not in the fairness ofadministrative action which merely enacted these "laws." 
This administrative action was explained by James Roemer, Dean ofStudents. There are two actions which the administration can follow in expelling a student from a dorm, according to Dean Roemer. One is "contractual" and the other "disciplinary." If a student commits a violation of University rules, disciplinary ac­tion is usually followed, which can result in a fine, ex­pulsion from the dorm, or dismissal from the University. 
The Pangborn case was not disciplinary but contractual. "When contrac­tual measures are taken no blot goes on the student's disciplinary record," Roemer said. This type of 
reassignment was what the the incident which ap­five received. peared in The Observer the 
While disciplinary action day after, Dean Roemer, Fr. can become a complex pro­James Riehle, rector of cedure, contractual reas­Pangborn, and Fr. Steve signment is much simpler. Jeselnick, assistant rector of 
Since the Pangborn incident Pangborn, all refused to is a recent example, it will comment. They continue to be used here. The students refuse to answer any ques­were causing "problems" tions about the reasons for accordng to Roemer. the reallocation ofthese stu­Obscene pictures of and dents because they cite the obscene phone calls to the matter as a confidential, assistant rector of Pangborn private matter. 

were aong the "offenses." 
According to Roemer, there was no proof that any one person did any one thing wrong. This is why measures were contractual. The hall staff decided that they no longer wanted these students in their dorm because of "problems" they were causing. They simply took away these stud~nts' priveleges ofon-campus housing. 
The hall staff and Dean ofStudents have this contrac­tual right. No reasons are necessary according to du Lac, which under the general heading of "Regulations" simply states: "The University reserves the right to transfer a student's residence." All other rules applying to the expulsion of a student from his or her dorm are found under "Disciplinary Procedures." 
This is not to say that the.Pangborn's hall staff did or did not have concrete reaSons. According to du Lac, however, they do not have to. Also, a 48-hour warning is standard procedure and nowhere in du Lac does it say a student must be warned. Roemer agreed that this is not a University rule but that the students were warned. 
"These five students have been reprimanded over the years," Roemer said. "Students should be made aware 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author. 
News Editor 
Inside Friday 
that it is not a 'right' to live in a resident hall. A rector can make a decision that he does not want a student living in his hall anymore and the student loses this privelege." 
It's that simple. 
According to one of the five Pangborn students in­volved, there was no University rule broken or no wrong committed by any one of the five. He preferred to call it a "personality conflict," and did not want to comment further so as not to put himself in further jeopardy. 
"I'm a second semester senior and I don't want to wreck graduation," the student said. "We know we won't get back on no matter what. We were treated unfairly, but we don't want anything more to come of 
it." 
The administration has 
quite different reasons for 
claiming "no comment." In 
Sean Faircloth's article on 
Desigr~ Editor... . .......... Deidre Murphy DesignAssistams ........................Sue Flynn Layout Staff.... Missing and not in action Typesetters...... ...............Steve Burg Bob judge News Editor. .................... Kelli Flint Copy Editor... .... Ed Konrady Editorials Layout. ............................. Roper Features Layout... . ...... Munchkin Sports Copy Editor. . ....... Chris Needles l)•pist .... .......... Cher-yl Enelt Laura Degnan Mary Beth Porter ND Day Editor..... . ........... Joe Musemici Ad Desigtl......... . ................. .John & Mary Photographer... .................. Rachel Guest Appearances Blurry Photographer Rudy P the Sober !loring Tired Tom A Chamber Loser Ted Ozark Tht·rc are so many color~ in a rain how So many colors in the morning sun So many colors in a flower And I see every one.  
The Observer !USPS 598 920) 1S published Monday through Frtday and on horne football Saturdays except durtng exam and vacat1on pertods The Observer 1s publiShed by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col­lege Subscrtpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 The Observer 1S a rnernber of The Associated Press All reproduction rtghts are reserved Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame Indiana 46556  

NOWRENTINGFORSUMMER 
2 Bedrooms $290per month furnished, utilities, C/A and heated JX)Ol. Available June 1through August 15 Call272-1441 
You could almost say this 
tendency has become tradi­tion. These officials follow this policy because they want to protect the students involved. 
Notre Dame students claim that they have right to 
know, that there should be better "communication"be­
tween the administration and students. 
This is true in some instances, but ·in this case, and 
many other cases like it, students do not have a right to 
know. The Pangborn students do not want them to 
know, naturally, because it could stain their reputa­
tions. And the administration supports this. 
Many times, reporters for The Observer, student government, and students in general feel frustrated be­cause administrators will not "talk." Many times their frustration is justified and "no comment" seems like a cop-out. But there are some cases, such as the Pangborn incident, in which "no comment" to reporters and those not involved is justifiable and even understand­able. 
Battles between the administration, hall staffs and students will always arise. Some decisions, policies and issues ofjustice and fairness will be blackand white, but some will remain a murky gray. 
Perhaps more people should read du Lac...just in case. 


----~--~----------------------------------~------------~~ 
The Observer Friday, March 26, 1982-page 3 
New director 
Strake cites Student Union goals 
Ry CECILIA LUCERO "flop" because of apathy. To com­to book 'surer' concerts. We really Sill//Reporter pensate, other activities are planned need South Bend to participate. lack to improve student involvement. ofSouth Bend ticket sales has caused Increased participation in on­One of the innovations will in­pa~t failures." troduce more live bands and new More events to increase hall par­
campus student activities is the ob­ticipation are also hopeful to bring
jective of newly-appointed Student movies in Chatauqua to improve the Union director Steve Strake. atmosphere. Strake claims that the Student Union and the dorms. to­Chatauqua has a fine sound system gether. Strake sees the duty of the which has been underutilized in the Student Union as a "service to stu­past. The sound system, similar to a dents....open to suggestions from
service to students.... 
anyone, including Saint Mary'J_·;, advantage as it will produce special The Student Union staff for 'the open to suggestions effects for rock movies and other I 9H2-19H:I school year are: Steve tilms, such as Tommy and Strake, director; Mike Jans, comp­
from anyone, includ­Earthquake. troller; David McMahon, assistant Traditional Student Union director; David Drouillard, social presentations will also ht• repeated, commissioner; Bart Reynolds, cul­
Dolby system, will he used to its full 
ing Saint Mary's. 
such as winter and fall Welcome tural arts commissioner; Linda Weeks, and the Country Rock Jam,. Powers, academic commissioner; Strake cited his goals hJr the I 9H2-which has seen great improvement William O'Hayer, concert commis­
H:I sd10ol year at the stafl induction within the last two years. sioner; Gina Rohrer, movie commis­in LaFortune last night. Strake also plans to alleviate the sioner; John Kelly, services 
The talk outlined several goals for problem of concert cancelations commissioner; Darrel Nolan, ex­next year's Student !Inion, including which has happened more than ecutive coordinator; Molly Nolan, the elimination of homecoming once during the past year_ "Even pubic relations; Andy Abrams, events. which Strake has called a though it wasn't our tault, we hope Chatauqua director. 
Lebanon crisis 
Kellogg Institute opens conference 

A conference on the uisis in Lebanon, jointly sponsored by the llnivt·rsity of Notre Damt•'s Helen Kellogg Institute for International 
Studies ami the American Lebanese League, will convene at Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Educuion today through Mar. 2H. 
The confcrenn:, "Lebanon and tht· Prospects of War and Peace in the Middle East," will begin at 7:4S 
p.m.  tonight  with  an  address  by  
Khalil  ltani,  the  ambassador  of  
Lahanon to the llnited States.  

A panel discussion entitled "llnitcd States Interests in Lebanon" will begin at 9:00 a.m. Mar. 27. Panelists will include Morris Draper, deputy assistant Secretary of State li>r Ncar Ea~tern and South Asian At~ fairs; Dory Chamoun, secretary­.:ent·ral of the Lebanese National Libaal Party; Rev. J. Bryan Hehir, director of the International Office of Justice and Peace for the United States Catholic Conference; and Michael Francis, chairman of the 
department of <lovernment and In­tanational Studies at Notre Dame. 
A panel discussion entitled "Religious and Communal Currents in the Lebanese Contlict" will begin at I :00 p.m. Mar. 27. Panelists will include Imam MohamadJawad Chir­ri, director of the Islamec Center of Iktroit and spiritual leader of America's largest Muslim and Arab community; Leonard Binder, profes­sor ofpolitical science at the Univer­sity of Chicago; and Basil Collins, professor of geography at the Uni­versity ofToledo. 
A round table discussion to which 
all conk-renee participants arc at Fordham University, and invited will be~in at 8:00p.m. Mar. Muhamad Mughraby, an internation­
27. The discussion moderator will al lawyer and Lebanese political 
New~)' appointed Student Uni011 Director Steve Strake in­
he Allen Dowty, professor ofgovern­leader. 
troduced the 1982-83 Student Union Commissioners last night at
ment and international studies at /There will be a summary discussion 
the student got'emment offices. See Cecilia lucero's story at left.
Notre Dame. of the conference at I I :00 a.m. Mar. 
(photo by Rachel Blount) ­
A panel discussion entitled 2H moderated by Rev. Ernest Bartell, "Lebanon: Key to Peace in the C.S.C., director of the Helen Kcllogg Middle Ea~t" will begin at 9:00 a.m. Institute for International Studies at Mar. 28. Panelists will include Paul Notre Dame. All conference events, 
"Beaux Arts Goes
Jurcidini, vice president of Abbott which are open to the public, will Associates;John Entelis, chairman of take place in the center for Continu­
to the Louvre" 
the department of political science ing Education at Notre Dame. 
51st ANNIVERSARY 
ROCKNE MEMORIAL MASS 
&BREAKFAST 
Sunday,April4, 1982 
MASS: 8:15 AM, South Dining Hall BREAKFAST: 9:15AM South Dining Hall GUEST SPEAKER Coach~erryFaust SPECIAL GUESTS Members of the 
Rockne Family 1982 Football Tri-Captains: Phil Carter, Dave Duerson, Mark Zavagnin 
SPECIAL FEATURE During breakfast there will be a screening of a recent Knute Rockne documentary film 
narrated by actor Cliff Robertson For 
additional information call the Alumni 
Office at (219) 239-6000, or Tom Kirschner 
(in the evening) at 234-3 790. 

E~(j~~fCER6g 
RfC~R~[[J r?~~~f~~ ~[]~~rRJ~V ~E 11 fflET-IJR[il\l~~(j ~flT ~[i~l\IUJE 1':111~Ufl1LTURER [if PlflET~L 6H~PP~~(j L[i~T fW~ER6 I 1\lE (]ffER LHf1llE~[j~~[j P[]E~T ~[J~S ~~ E~H l[]Lf1TUJ~S i1LR[]EE THE L[]U~TR'r' I THEEE P[]E~T ~[]~E lE/1[) [)~RECT l 'r' T[] PlfU~T 1':111~fl(jEI':1E~T REEP[]~~~B~l~T ~E~ I 
EMrJ~ UJrr? ~[]~ rnnr ~IJ[J]~ ~l~~ltt1J~~lf ~ffM~lt f[]R ~ ~~t1Jrr?UJl8 U~JlfltRlJJ~lt~ []~ ra1J[Q~[OlH\I g ~[?R~l 5g ~ ~~ 2o 
Saturday, March 27, 1982 
9:00 pm until ? Featuring the Tarantulas 
formerly the PAGES $3.00 presale $3.50 at the door 
~Student Government Offices I 
at the Arch. Bldg.  
,..........................................................................................................,  .....-..!  
I I ~ I~ ~  Applications for the 1982-83 Student Government Cabinet Positions  II ~I I ~  
~  will bemade availablestarting  ~  
I ~  March 23  ~I  
~  atthe  ~  
'­ I  

~ ~ 
~ on the second floor ofLaFortune. I
I ~ 
I I 
~ Must be returned by March 31... ~ 
~ I
1..........................................................................................~........................ 

---~-~--------~ 
The Observer Friday, March 26, 1982 -page 4 
'Employee-related' 
Hewlett outlines company success 
EASY RIDER 

By MIKE MONK 
Editor-in-Chief 
The great success of the Hewlett­Packard Company can be attributed to its placing high priority on the welfare of its employees, said its co­founder and director, William R. Hewlett. 
The lecture. entitled "The Human 
Side of Management", outlined the 
basic history of H-P and the various 
policies which have brought the 
company from its simple origins to 
its present status as a major designer 
and manufacturer of sophisticated 
electronic equipment. 
The company was started in 1939 

When the partyis BYOB (BringYour Own Brush), you find out who yourfriends are. 
:~. 

by Hewlett and David Packard in Packard's garage in Palo Alto, California. Today the company employs over 65,000 people in eighteen U.S. cities and 65 countries worldwide and reported revenues of S 3 billion in 1980 
Hewlett said Packard and he were products of the Great Depression, and this greatly intluenced the way in which the company was to be run. 
"We wanted a dedicated and loyal work force," Hewlett said, "and we knew that this could be ac­complished only with a very special management approach." 
As the company began to grow, Hewlett and Packard started to 
Friends aren't hard to find when you're out to share agood time. But the crowd sure thins out when there's work to do. And the ones who stick around deserve something special. 
Tonight, let it be LOwenbrau. 
Lowenbrau. Here's to good friends. 
(C 1982 Beer Bre'Ned by M1Uer Brew1ng Co .. Milwaukee, W1s. 
implement several employee benefit programs which were un­heard ofat the time. Because the two men realized the importance of every individual within the com­pany, they began a profit sharing plan which equally benefited everyone from the founders to the janitors. In the late 1940's, the company established a medical in­surance plan which provided finances for the family of a disabled employee for as long as he or she 
was unable to work. 
More recently H-P has experi­mented with flexible work hours with mixed results. Currently employees can work any time be­tween 6:30a.m. and 8:30p.m as long as they put in a full eight hours. The program has proven successful and has been implemented in most of the divisions. 
Not so successful was a four day, ten hour work week which "failed miserably" according to Hewlett. 
These programs and other in­novative ideas have earned H-P a reputation as one of the best­managed companies in the electronics industry. 
"We just don't talk about taking care of our employees, it's a fact," Hewlett said. He offered several ex­amples to support this claim, the most dramatic having taken place during the recession in 1971. F t acing a great loss of business, H-P was considering laying off over 10,000 employees. 
Realizing the devastating effect such a move would have upon the jobless workers and their families, H-P instead opted to work C\"ery other l'riday without pay. No one was l<1id oft" and business was back to normal about six months later. 
In a further attempt to stress the "human side of management," Hewlett said that H-1' make~ "strenuous effort~ to keep all employees, no matter how detkient they may be in a certain position." Whenever this problem anses, the man<~gement tries its best ro match employess with compatible job!>, or "lateral motion" a~ opposed to a demotion or firing. H-P tires an employee "only as a last resort," said Hewlett. 
The basic guiding system utilized by H-P is "management by ob­jectives" ( MBO) which is a form of participatory management where managers and employees work closely in order to achieve the goals. Although MBO has an mixed track record, it ha!> been working success­fully for H-P since its inception. 
"With MHO, all the employees ted like members ofa team, tall pul­ling together, working toward the same goals," explained Hewlett. "Everyone shares in reaching the goals and everyone protits from them in turn." 
All the managers and executives have an "open-door" policy, where any employee at any time can talk or complain to a superior. According to Hewlett, this acts "as a good safety­valve." 
Another common practice which 
is designed as a safety-valve is what 
Hewlett calls "community lunches," 
where a senior executive visits a 
division and has lunch with 15-20 
randomly selected employees. This 
offers the workers an opportunity to 
address questions and complaints to 
one of the higher officials in the 
company. 
Hewlett stressed throughout the 
lecture that a company can never do 
too much in order to make its 
employers happier. "I think we must 
re-invest in the human side of 
management." 
Hewlett spoke before an attentive audience of over 200 students, faculty and business people yester­day in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education as a part of the Eugene B. Clark Executive Lecture Series. 


The Observer Friday, March 26, 1982 -page 5 

Space shuttle Columbia Commander jack R Lousma begirls a demonstration to sbow how 
Self Nomination for 
i Joint Engineering Council .•...
~~: 
• 4 officer positions open I all engineering students eligible 
forms available in Deans office Return by March 26 Election Night March 29 
t' I II I 115 11 IRS? I llRWlllD.U ICJ II EUMi-1~ -IU~~!-f!IIUIF·I·IIIIl I I Ill U I n•IIJIWCJW 
SACK llA'lS-A'l'lER'liORI! 
****************
* Sat. 11:80-1:80 * ; NEWHOURS; 
**************** 

Pleasant voyage 

Columbia nears half-way point 
CAPE CANAVERAL, !'Ia. (AP) ­Astronaut C. Gordon Fullerton nudged the shuttle closer to its future as a spa<:e freighter yesterday, waving Columbia's rohot arm and 
tlcmonstrating it has the musde to lift a payload and eventually pla<:e it in an orbit of its own. 
"If there were any surprises, they 

wert.·  all  pleasant,"  the  pilot  said.  
"I'm  n·ally  impressed  with  that  
piece of ma~:hincry."  
Columbia,  sailing  smoothly,  

neared half-way point of its seven­day voyage. l'ulh:rton and Comman­der Ja<:k R. I.ousma apparently had ovcr<:omc their motion sickness and got somt.· needed rest. 
The grah-and-lift was the t1rst test of the Canadarm's capadty to do the joh it was built for -depositing and retrieving satellites in space and waving sdcntit1<: instruments into plat.-c outside the orhiter. The arm is assigned its tlrst for-hire duties on Flilo(ht 7, scheduled h>r April 19H~. when it will release a German scicn­tilic satdlite. 
Canadian developers of the arm were "ecstatic, or at least as ecstatic as engineers can he," a spokesman said. 
Columbia was !lying yesterday with its nose to the sun, its tail in the cold shadows. Tomorrow, after HO hours in that position, the astronauts arc to lire three sets ofengines in the tail to determine if they have been all'cctcd hy long exposure to tem­peratures down to 21 <; degrees hdow zero. 
The !!(,.orbit mission would he half over hy bedtime and NASA workers were putting the last logisti­cal toudJt.'S on the hurgeoning spat.-cport hcing crfctt:d on the: White Sands Missilt.· Rangt.· in New Mcxi<:o. 
The arm test was a turning point fi>r Flight .~. hecaust.• it had been ddayt.·d hy a video failure on Tues­day and thnt.· were some ti:ars that the important demonstration might be impossible without it. 
In cxncising thc Canadian-built arm, Fullt-rton was hamlicappcd in his exacting task by tht· malfunction. The TV piuurc was to have guided him to his target. 
!Ising a pair of binonllars and video from llxt·d cameras in thc t.·argo bay, Fullerton maneuvt·rcd tht.· arm gingt·rly ovcr a package of ~t.'it·ntitk instrumcnts in the cargo bay, lowcrt.·d it onto a grappling fixture, and lockcd on with the cranc's wirt.·-snare hand. 
With thc ,,pindly arm, Fullerton liftnl thc ~';.~-pound payload and movnt it around the hay, carcful not' to hit other expnimcnts stored that:. Evcntually thc arm ~hould he lifting up to 6'i.OOO pounds. 

Tht.·n he lotted it high out of thc cargo hay showed the arm ex­tended toward t.·arth, a cloud con·r ovcr tht: southeastern United States providing a spt·ctacular background to the diagnostic package. diector Tom Holloway said "I think 
Mission Control's Sally Ride said were limping along ... we are think­the package -monitoring the ing ahout additional steps to take." shuttle's electromagnetic tlcld -"is Best news of all to NASA was that getting super data." both l.ousma, who vomited the 11rst 
The shuttle's stopped-up toilet day, and Fullerton were no longer was still giving trouble, but !light complaining offeeling ill. 


UNITEDBEVERAGECO. 
(Next to police station on Sample) Check Our Prices 
:. '• 
:. ::.-· 
..: : 


~------~--~---~ 
---------·--------------------------­
The Observer Friday, March 26, 1982 -page 6 
~~~~~St~=~=~;~~~--l ...Candidate ••&a'E&a~ JPa&Gaii t 
t Lecture by t 
t ~.aee.a.oa &!l»IBGR B4lr&Dll£i t tFormer IsraeliAmbassadorto Great Britain~ 
: Tuesday, March 30, 8 pm t 
L---~~~L~~~~~----j 

LOVERBOY 
With Special Guest 
~ 
FRIDAY, APRIL 16 8 pm ACC -Notre Dame Univ. South Bend, Indiana Tickets $9 and 10. Reserved Seats. 
T1ckets ava•lable at A C C Box offtce. Robertson·s 
•n South Bend and Concord Mall. Elkhart Truth F1rst Source Bank (ma•n ofhce) St Joseph Bank (ma•n off•Ce) and Suspended Chord •n Elkhart 
Produced by Contemporary with Sunshine 
continuedfrompage 1 "It seems to me the United States situation as most people in my di~­is playing games in El Salvador ... trict do. I believe my constituents 
know what the students are thinking turning it into a win/lose situation." feel we should not be involved in Elabout the issue unless they speak Ward served in the Army during Salvador -we don't have military out," he said. 

the Vietnam war and cited a majoo or economic interests there."
"Deserving students are going to 

benefit from that experience.
be hurt by the budget. This will "People step back and take a closer Ward graduated from Notre Dame mainly affect middle-class and look at the circumstances involved in 1970, and earned his JD Degreelower-middle-class students. 

in war now," he said. from the University of Denver in "College may eventually be for "I don't think Reagan sees the 1974. 
the wealthy alone, if these cuts are carried out." Ward detects an "insensitivity" coming out ofWashington now. 
• • • Reagan
"Talented, eligible students won't be able to attend Notre Dame, he said. The Reagan administration will continuedfrom page 1 In a gesture to the AFL-CIO,see this as well and good, as long as Reagan agreed last December tothey aren't in such a position." 

waive a three-year debarment 
no-strike oath. They said the govern­Ward participated in Notre period so that the I I, 500 air traffic 

ment was determined to rebuild the

Dame's Solidarity march and ·controllers could apply for other 
air control system around the some

expressed doubt concering Presi­civil service jobs. 
3,500 controllers who remained ondent Reagan's budget as well as his At t)le time, both Reagan and the job, military personnel and newhandlingofthe El Salvador situation. Lewis emphasized that they recruits. 

"My concern is the way Reagan is opposed reinstating controllers to Gary Eads, president of the decer­talking about 'rearming America', airport tower jobs. They said that tified PATCO, said he viewed thebecause the end result would be war would be unfair to controllers who rehirings with caution "because ofwithin six months or a year," he said. remained on the job during the the circumstances involved."
"I would like for this to be the major strike. 
"I don't personally know of concern of the voters." Reagan, Lewis and FAA ad­anyone who went (on strike) againstWard addd that he does not think ministrator]. Lynn Helms said at the their will," Eads said. 

violence is an adequate solution to time ofthe strike that the controllers the problems in El Salvador. had forsaken their jobs by violating a 

Math
ALL SMC STUDENTS 
lecture 

IR!ERES!ED IN JOINING 
today

THE OBSERVER· 
Friedrich Hirzenbruch, professorCOME TO THE MEETING of mathematics at the University of Bonn, West Germany, will speak on Monday, March 2 9 6pm in SMC Observer office "New Examples of Algebraic Surfaces" during the College of
(located in Regina South Basement) 
Science Lectures in Mathematics Fri. in room. i26 of the Computing

Questions? Call Mar aret 4670 
Center and Mathematics Building. 


DRAFT BEER SPECIAL 
$35.00 


(INCLUDESKEGOFBEER, TAP, 50cups,ICE, &SALESTAX)* 
Your Choice BUD BUDLIGHT, BUSCH, NATURAL, STROH'S 
"UNITED'; 
The Beer Co. 287-1067 Daily 8:30-4:30 Sat. 11:30-1:30 

Michelobf MICHliGHT $40.00 Heineken $66.00 
*(Does not include any deposit charges) 

Friday, March 26, 1982 -page 7

EditorialS 
Deteriorating situation in Central America 
Concerning the deteriorating violence, far more than have died at hostile toward the Sandinistas. of terrorism is underestimated in a its hostility to the United States. ~ituation in Central America, a few war throughout the history of the And, of course, Nicaragua country that has never experiem:ed could plausibly be framed But observations: United States; about I 00 times our becomes an arsc·nal as a result ofan­it. But the notion that the elections meanwhik it behooves us ·to 
I ) There is no practical means by losses during the excruciating war other staging base, namely Cuba. of late March will establish anything, blockade Central America, by air which the United States can arrest in Vietnam. And Cuba? We all know the answer. when the guerrillas have publicly and sea, arresting all movement of the violence sweepinJ.: the area. The 2) This does not mean that the Cuba would be prostate economi­promised death to anyone who arms to the area. Our diplomacy "Roosevelt (Teddy) Corollary" to United States should be indifferent cally if it were not for the Soviet Uni­votes, is ludicrous. And so the should tocus directly on harnessing the Monroe Doctrine asserted a to the scale of political violence in on. demoralization of an army largely sponsoring resolutions by Latin ~-:eneral right to intervene in Latin Central America, but does mean that Our direct quarrel, then, is with untrained proceeds. Answer? American nations. And here, Mexico America in the case of ( ~-:et this): we must jealously guard the relevant Cuba. It is perhaps too late to arrest We have got to get at Cuba. A dec· is critical. "cronic wrongdoing or an im­distinction. And it is this: Where is the decline of El Salvador. The reach laration of war, given the record of Copyright I 982, Universal Press Syml. 
potence which results in a general violence being cultivated, with a loosening of the ties of civilized view to exporting it? One should not societies." tire of repeating the fatalistic but 
Solidarity protests Hesburgh trip
wise maxim of Senator Fulbright, that the United States government The following is an excerpt ofalet­ing the most logical, fonhcoming steps military policy in El Salvador. 
has no proper quarrel with any na­ter presented to Fr. Heshurgh 011 in solution of the crisis, that of negota­IV. Negotiations must precede elec­tion no matter how obnoxious its March 23rd by a committee represellf­tion. tions ill a political se/1/ement domestic policies, so long as it does illg the ND-SMC £1 Salvador I. Elections are fraudulelll Statements of Bishop Anuro Rivera 
It is not intended as ethnically in· not seek to export them. 
William Buckley 
Solidarity Group. The present regime has refused any y Damas of San Salvador propose that vidious to remark that history shows .3) However grotesque, then, the negotiations with the FOR, the popular a political solution to the armed con-a propensity for violence in Latin leaders of Guatemala, or the death Father Hesburgh: based opposition coalition. 11 ict requires a different order of America. We have our crime in the 
squads associated with the govern­" ...Through the publication by the events: negotiations must precede the 
streets, the Germans had Hitler, the ment of El Salvador, our concern is The following are reasons for which Anny last spring of a list of 138 elections. Russians had Stalin and his succcs· with Nicaragua. Why? Because it is 
we strongly urge you to decline your 'psychopaths', 'traitors', and Out of sixty countries invited by the sors -the Latin Americans incline becoming a staging base for ex­participation in the State Department's 'terrorists' which the military declared Salvadoran government to send obser­to massive political violence. During 
ported political violence. Why docs misson of observing the March 28th its intention to 'relentlessly pursue.· vers to the elections, only five govern­the civil war in Colombia that began Nicaragua need an army of 70,000? elections in El Salvador. "This list included every significant ments have officially accepted. Of in 1948, .300,000 Colombians were You will say: to guard against being By refusing direct involvement in member of the FOR's leadership, as those who declined, most stated they estimated to have been killed. That, overthrown by the CIA. But the the mission at ths time, you would be well as many others, and was under­"suppon a political settlement," in American terms, would amount to 
mobilization was under way well best serving the positive goals we all standably perceived by those leaders as implying that these elections are not a 4 million to 5 million deaths by 
before the United States turned share and would lend suppon to pursu-a sign that the government was not in­step in that direction; they insist that a terested in discussion. "(Congressman political settlment must begin with Gary Studes) negotiations. 
1/. The political reality of £1 Sal­The U.S. Catholic Conference sup­vador will he misrepresented to U.S. pons a negotiated settlement and con­
observers. demns current U.S. military policy in It is unlikely that blatant violatins El Salvador. will be visible to observers on election 
ElSalvador: a lack ofalternatives 
In this, the second of a two-part series. senior Jim McGillivray analyze.v the most practical ways in which the U.S. can deal with the crisis in £1 Salvador. 
Jim McGillivray 
No one knows what the future holds 
for El Salvador or what the upcoming 
election.~ will do to the country. 
Everyone seems to be putting forward 
simplistic solutions to complex 
problems. 
Killing leftist rebels will deal with a 
symptom but cenainly will not bring 
about a cure. The desire for land 
refom1, education, freedom and justice 
cannot be bought off or shot apan. 
Enlightened U.S. aid geared toward creating economic stability and self­\Uificiency for the economy of El Sal­vador will be critical for eventual peace in El Salvador. 
Guns will not provide a lasting cure, especially when used with an apparent lack of descrimination by government forces. 
Duane is barely able to keep control of the military. He has done as much as any one man could to be a moderating inlluence, hut he is trapped, too. Any more reforms and he will be removed 
by the Right. Any less, and the 
moderates will dessen him. As it 
stands now, the Left is obviously dis­
satisfied. The peasants want land 
reform and guaranteed survival. 
The situation has degenerated to the 
point where our advisors and their ad­
visors push and agitate for gains which 
certainly won't be enjoyed by the 
people of El Salvador. 
They probably will not be any better off under a Marxist regime. But they certainly will not be worse off than the present reign of murder and repres­sion. 
It is impossible to judge right and wrong in El Salvador; there does not seem to be any "right". We have sur­rendered everything we believe in to prop up a corrupt, immoral govern­ment merely to maintain a point of political honor. 
Is it wonh it? How much will we put up with? American nuns have. been murdered as a warning to the press in general. All of this rellects on us be­cause we suppon and apparently en­courage a strong military handling of the revolt. 
We can force the situation into an "us"/"thcm" choice for the people of El Salvador. All we stand to lose is the point of honor. But the people bear the results and now any of the possible outcomes is a loss for them. 
I am not naive enough to suggest that the ~ituation could have developed other than it ha,. Hard political realities frequently cause "freedom" and "justice" to become mere words. 
Duane represents the only sanity in 
the government of El Salvudor hut his 
position is tenuous. His hands arc ef­
fectively tied hy those who put him in 
power and a rapidly anti-communist 
Americun govem;nent devoid of 
feeling or understanding for a largely 
peasant population. 

That population has seen what we have to offer them. Perhaps with an un­derstanding of rural, essentially uned­ucated Third World people we could have controlled the !low of economic aid and military hardware in such a way as to be beneficial to all the people of El Salvador. But probably not and it is too late now anyway. 
The polarization has taken place and we have driven a large pan of the population in El Salvador towards the Cuban-centered communist camp through a simple lack of alternatives. President Reagan can give an "Aw, shucks" and go draw another line in some other country. 
For the people of El Salvador there 

is no such option. That is the way of 
international politics. 
day -the political coercion is taking place now. 
Ill. U.S. Domestic Repercussions 
Participation by respected U.S. leaders as observers in El Salvador will be understood by the people of the United States as a sign that the elec­tions are air and that they truly represent the will of the Salvadoran people. The presence of respected figures, such as yourself. will enable the Salvadoran government to lead the people of the United States and the world to believe that the elections are legitimate. 
These non-representative elections will be used by the U.S. States Depan­ment to justify its current poli11y of a United States backed military solution to the problems in El Salvador. 
Therefore, those who participate as observers for the State Department in the upcoming elections, are directly serving to legitimize current U.S. 
In conclusion, we, the ND-SMC El 
Salvador Solidarity Group, recognize 
the complexity of this issue and ap­
preciate the sincerity of your motives 
in dealing with the situation. You are a 
highly regarded Catholic leader, 
respected by Catholics and non­
Catholics alike. Through your role as 
unofficial electoral observer, millions 
of Americans will be led to trust in the 
legitimacy of the Salvadoran electoral 
process. 
As concerned students at Notre 
Dame, we share with you a profound 
devotion to truly living Christian 
values in our pursuit of social justice in 
the World. In light of these values, we 
feel the most positive action on your 
part in bringing about justice for the people of El Salvador, will be to decline the invitation of the State Depanment and refuse to panicipate in a strategy that holds little promise for the future of the people. 


Editorial Board Department Managers 
· The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Editor·in-Chief. ............................. Michacl Monk Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Managing Editor ................ Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller .............................................Eric Schulz 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­
Executive News Editor......................... Kclli Flint Advert is in;: Manager .......................Chris Owen ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of 
SMC News Editor ..................... Margaret Fosmoc Production Manager .................. Maura Murphy a majority of the Editorial Board. Coanmentaries, opinions and letters are the views 
Sports Editor ...................................Chris Needles Circulation Mmmger .......................... Ray Inglin of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Systems Manuger ........................... Bruce Oakley the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, ii eacouuged. Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown 
Pboto Editor ...................................Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966 
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

._.._S tt0 W ( ~SiiiiiiEiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiFiiiiiridaiir,iiMariiich~26~,1~9sjj2~P~_age~s 
.... 
Chris Block and Ed Moreno in two scenesfrom which is being performed this weekend. (Photos the Second Scene production of American Buffalo by Rachel Blount.) 
Buffalo exposes naked reality 
Tarantulas play Beaux Arts Ball 
•
The cable TVrevolution: That's entertatntnent 
I 
always find something new at 
my house when I go home ­
new animals, new furniture or new 
types offrozen dinners -and this 
spring was no exeption. I was 
reading the paper late one night 
and something on the television 
caught my eye: a commercial for a 
used car dealer in Brooklyn. That 
was strange since I was in Mil­
waukee; I decided to investigate. 

Paul Kosidowski 
Second Thoughts 
"It's cable, stupid," my sister told me. 
I was thrilled that our household had finally joined the mainstream ofsociety. I've heard the "cable revolution" is the biggest thing since drip coffee makers and I thought that it was something a responsible citizen should know how to qse, just like voting machines and microwave ovens. 
There is no "user's guide" for cable television, but there are alot ofschedules. The book we get from Cablevision every month has 48 pages and tells what the ' programming will be on the fo~r 
movie stations, the two sports 
channels, the three out-of-town 
super cables, the special news 
channel, and the "cultural" cable. 
On the inside cover they print a 
short essay by an aspiring but un­
known writer who obviously 
spends most ofhis time watching 
TV. 
The local stations are in the 
newspaper as usual. The schedule 
for the ARTS channe ., another 
culture cable, is sor tetimes in the 
paper and sometirr es on the back 
of the handbills m 1 mother brings 
home from the Sl permarket. To 
get information ·,bout the other 
stations you eit'ter have to have 
relatives in Chicago (in Milwaukee 
you get four scations from there) 
or you can watch the special chan­
nel that shows a computer 
schedule ofthe other 31 stations. 
The computer also plays soft music 
to sooth the people who are having 
trouble deciding what to watch 
that night. 
Having a free evening, I checked the schedules (the computer was "temporarily under repair"). At 7 the movie channels were featuring North by Northwest which is my favorite Hitchcock film andAny Which Way You Can, the only Clint Eastwood movie I haven't seen. TbezfandEyewitness were 
on at 8. I had heard that both of these are very good. On the sports channels I could watch either ten· nis or pro hockey. I used to watch tennis on Sunday afternoons with my sister and I remember enjoying that. The one hockey game I have seen was very exciting. 
One ofthe cultural cables was televising the Royal Shakespeare Company's production ofMacbeth -no graduating English Major should miss that. The three super cables all had old movies on. I checked my Encyclopedia ofFilm and found that they were all rated 4 stars, the best you can get. There is nothing I like better than a good, old movie. 
Luckily there wasn't another movie on the ARTS station. They were showing a special on Vincent Van Gogh, who is a great artist and led a fascinating life. I've always wanted to know more about him. 
The local channels had some good shows on too: Leonard Bernstein conducting Beethoven's 6th Symphony and other "award­winning" programming. Almost everything wins some sort of award these days. I wish someone would rate the different awards 
and honors so I would know which 
ofthem mean anything. I'd also like 
to know which critics are the most 

consistent and trustworthy. I'd 
don't know which one to listen to 
and theatre and concert tickets are 
getting expensive. 
One thing good about the scheduling ofthese programs is that everything is always shown more than once. Since North by 
Northwest was on again at 4:30 the 
next morning, I decided to watch 
it then. The intermission ofMac­beth would be at about 8:20 which would mean, if my calculations are 
correct, I could catch the post­
game highlights of tennis match 
during that time. The second act of 
Macbeth is no great shakes, so I · 
could skip that and catch the last 
movement ofthe Beethoven sym­
phony and the ending of "watch" two shows at once. The best part ofShakespeare is, of course, the language and the Van· Gogh documentary is subtitled for the hearing impaired so I could watch one and listen to the other, while still checking lor some good fights in the hockey game. 
My first night with cable televi­sion was quite an enriching ex­perience. It's difficult to imagine the effect ofhaving so much in­formation and entertainment at the fingertips of the American public. I've been told that we will soon do our banking, shopping and other chores through the magic of 
television. I think that's fine ...as 
long as nobody interrupts any of 
T
his weekend at Washington Hall the ND/SMC Theater Department will conclude its 1981­1982 Second Scene series with a production of David Mamet's American Buffalo. First performed in Chicago in 1975 and then in New York in l977,American Buffalo won both an Obie and the New York Drama Critics Circle Award for Best New Play. Its revival at Circle in the Square in New York with AI Pacino plus an increasing amount ofcritical analysis has elevated both the play and its author to the front ranks of contemporary drama. 
Mamet, however, is no stranger to success. In 1974, his Sexual Perver­sity in Chicago accrued both the josephjefferson Award (Best New Chicago Play) plus an Obie. Because ofthe uniqueness ofits title it is the Mamet play with which most people are familiar. Other works which are quickly becoming stock pieces at any theater include: A Life in the Theater, The Water Engine, The Woods andThe Duck Variations. He also wrote the screenolav for ThP Postman Always Rings Twice and has a play, Lakeboat, currently run­ning at the Goodman Theater in Chicago. 
Ofall these plays, none exposes the necessity ofillusion in the face of human insufficiency as does American Buffalo. With technical precision, the play revolves to show its charactersstripped ofboth the af­fected trappings ofcommonplace mannerisms and the blanketed security oflong theatrical speeches. The language is sharp and crisp; to the point where the words actually become the action. The effect is a pervasive lyricism-one of the few 
contemporary plays that washes in­to poetry. 
But it is the poetry of the street. The language is explicit but not inac­cesible.)ack Kroll said that Mamet is "the first playwright to create a for­mal and moral shape out of the un­deleted expletives ofour foul-mouthed time." Mamet's ability to strip reality and theater ofits burdening pretensions and to nresent, not thf' absurd worlcl of R,.. 
ckett, but a naked American reality marks the beginning towards a simple yet brutally honest evalua­tion of both imagination and world. What is glorified is not crowning vic­tory but the sustained relationships that occur between people in the shadows ofhumiliation. Thus, the et­hics of this play lie in the little heaps ofdust and-decay which are always left behind. 
The Second Scene productions follow in the wake ofthe Theater Department's Subscription Series, but nevertheless. because they are usually student-run they exude a special creative energy that comes from the pure act ofplaying with the text, with the staging and with the acting. The three previous Second Scenes, Six Characters in Search of anAuthor,AdieuEmma andDuel ofAngels shared this quality and American Buffalo promises to do no less. 
American Buffalo will be shown tonight and tomorrow night at 8 n m. in Wa~hinl!ton HalL 

J
ust a few short years ago, Fred Dubisson was hard at work on a B.S. in mathematics at Notre Dame. Today he is the hard-working bass player for The Tarantulas, a rock and roll oand that plays no b.s. 
The Tarantulas (formerly known as The Pages) have become one of the midwest's most original and in­novative new bands, performing with a dramatic flair that has earned them the accolade of being, "the best live act in town." 
The band will be playing at the Beaux Arts Ball tomorrow night in the architecture building. The ball is a tradition that dates back to a 1930's formal ball for the students and faculty ofthe Ecole des Beaux Beaux Arts, Paris' renowned school ofdesign. The tradition carried over to American schools; the stringquar­tet has since been replaced by more modern music, and the common theme is that ofa costume ball. 
On stage, the focus ofThe Taran­tulas centers on Dubisson's kinetic bass playing and the showmanship oflead singer Tommy Thompson, who also writes much of the group's original material. The Tarantulas play energetic, danceable rock and roll that spans the musical gamut from Elvis Presley to Elvis Costello. 
~--~---~--... 
The Observer Features Section Friday, March 26, 1982 -page 9 

Suddenly, last sum.m.er 
A 
few years ago, a t(>rmcr N.D. student dropped hy to sec mt·. lie was twt·nty-c:ight years old, and he had finally sc:ttlcd down, he said. lie had a nice wife and a goocJ job, ancJ he was very happy. Things hacJ been rough for a while, and he hall scars, he said. lie had had two other marriage~. which endecJ in divorce; there had been two extramarital at[tirs which hacJ included abor­tions. lie went on to speak of the ways he was now prospering, and mentioned how absolutely lovely it was to set· Notrt· Dame again. now that he could ap· preciate the place more, after living t<>r a while in the n·al world. 
I almost stoppt·d listening, numbed hy what he had told me. lie had bt·en a hright, eager young Christian wlwn I knew him as a student; a good-looking kid, who had t·verything going for him. lie was still young, ancJ I hoped ht• was still Christian; hut he seemed a little sad now, shabby hd(>re his time. I don't know how he felt over the titilnl marriages, or what guilt he carried from bdng involved in two abortions. I don't know how had he felt making tht· same mistakes twice. 
I k wasn't asking me ti>r anything: pity or sympathy or mercy oft he Church. lie wasn't playing the role of sin~ ncr, sick ofbeing soiled, looking for a way home. lie was making a progrt·ss report ofhis lite, that was all. I was an old friend who happened to he a priest; priests like to llt"ar what has happened; old friends can accept the truth in a <:<Ntal way, even if it isn't pleasant. A friend would never he judgemental ahout your errors; he will be toll-rant and supportive and infinitely understand~ ing, if ht· is a man of the world. I was certainly hcing regarded as a man ofthe world, and, even when I'm not worldly, I wear the mask well. 
I've heard sadderstories. It is hard, by the time you're twcnty-cight, to have made enough mistakes so that your lite is ruined. A person who has never had to go through the dillkulty of beginning again, after lite has handed him a temporary defeat, is probably a person who has never risked very much. Yesterday's failures bdong to yesterday. l\laybc there were sweet c.lays he would remember from the sad times. No experience is cntirdy wasted; life, at best, is a bittersweet affair. 
Thest· were my reflections as a man ofthe world. "I'm 
sorry l(>r your problems, pal. Now you love a woman in 
the marriage that will count. Now will come the 
children whost· birth you will cherish. Now you have 
tht· job that will earn your security. Now you can build a 
home that is lull ofpeace." 
Thcst· are the words he needed to hear me say, the congratulatory words on his well-ordered life. I assured him that Ithought he: was now well on the way to saving his soul, and I hoped it was true. 
I tCh other, stronger emotions that I kept to myself I could have wept over what he had told me; I was angry with him for making a mess ofthings, and I was afraid of how well he could handle the future. 
Two divorces, two abortions-by age twenty-eight: how did you mess up so badly, I wanted to ask. 

Rev. Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonelv God 
lie probably would have answered: "I was in a hurry." 
No character detect here; no curse to be blamed, no evil 
companions leading him down the primrose path of 
destruction. he was in a hurry, that was all; impatient to 
get on in the real world. "I was in a hurry"-before love 
failed, before life cheated, before the tlrst chance had 
gotten lost in limbo, bcti>re chaos disturbed the ruling 
order. 

Innocence, I think, belongs to affirmations, and to the 
happy choices we assent to. The denials and negations 
kill us, as when we say no to a love that was offered, or to 
a lite for which we have become responsible. We begin 
to die from all our refusals; and damnation, ifit ever hap­
pens, is a final gasping denial, leaving us with the ex­
perience ofcomplete wretchedness, because we are 
terminally unwilling to have innocence forever. 
I gave him my blessing before he left; he didn't ask 
me, hut I asked ifl could bless him." From now on, don't 
be in such a hurry," I said, and he promised me, he 
wouldn't. That was a few years ago, and I haven't seen or 
heard from him since. 
lie went otho live the rest of his lite. Neither ofus 
knew whether the worst years or the hest years were 
ahead or behind. Twenty-eight is not very old, but he 
was older at his age than I was at fifty. Nothing, I think, 
looks seedier than premature age. 
There is a time oflife that is golden like the summer. 
It passes quickly enough as summer always does. When 
it is over, lite will never he as young again. Something 
wistful begins with the first days of autumn. My friend, 
less than ten years out of Notre Dame, hacJ entered his 
September. 

The old grads come back. I see the lines that have 
arrived early in the heautitul faces of people who have 
disappointed themselves. 
The real world, at any age:, is the world ofyour own 
making. 

Direction, Lentnton notMissing 
C
osta-(irav:L~ is the sort oftllm director that isn't afraid to go heavy on the politics in the creation ofa political thrilkr. Missing, his latest tllm, is no exception. In these times of Reaganomics and con· scrvative trends, it is refreshing to sec an Amt·rican movie that is so overtly political. But don't think that this tllm is some sort of unpolished soapbox. Costa-Gavras is a skillful director who can weave a storyline out ofpertinent political issues in or­der to heighten the dramatic tension that makes his tllms so riveting. 
Dennis Chalifour 
Missing is based on the true story ofCharles Horman, an American animator and writer who was ab­ducted by the military junta during the Chilean coup d'etat in 197'5. As always, Costa-Gavras deliberately leaves tht·name ofthe country in the tllm anonymous in order to avoid particularizing the scandal involved 10 only one instance. The film opens in medias res as a handful of Americans attempt to lead normal lives in the chaos of their environ­ment. The audience can't help but wonder what on earth is happening a.' soldiers execute people in the street while people dance in a ball­room just a few feet away. 
Just as we are convinced that Americans at least are safe from the outside violence, Horman is snatched away, setting the stage for the dramatic interplay between his father. Ed (Jack Lemmon) and wife, Beth (Sissy Space){). Their relation­ship, which starts out as a male­female duel between liberalism and conservatism, goes beyond the political and becomes a mutual quest for truth amid a sea of uncer­tainty. Costa~Garvas assembles the tllm with a shock~style editing 
scheme giving the entire tllm a quality ofambiguity that spearheads the quest. Without warning, flash­hacks intrude upon the action with various versions ofthe truth, con­stantly suspending the audience be­
tween the real and unreal. 
The ironic clash between the "true story" and Costa-Garvas' study in uncertainty is reinforced by the understatement of ubiquitous violence. Throughout the tllm, violence is present only in the back­ground as characters dine amidst machine-gun muzak or hop over dead bodies in order to catch a bus. 
Ricardo Aronovich's photography is brigl1t and quasi-cheerful while Vangelis' electronic soundtrack is sparse and mostly subdued. 

Witholding familiar dramatic tools, 
Costa-Garvas c.lisorients his 
audience, hitting them unawares in 
the manner ofa political cover-up. 
Fittingly, the only scene in the tllm 
that uses the tricks offilmic drama 
serves the function ofa Hitchcock MacGuffin, diverting the audience from the focu5> ofthe story-the ac­tual abduction. 
What may be Costa-Garvas' own coup isMissing's intertwining strands of irony, understatement, and uncertainty is his counter­casting ofjack Lemmon as Ed Hor­man. From the very first time he is on the screen, Lemmon is the quin· tessemial oblivious American. He is a man forced to come to grips with injustice at a personal level, all the while gaining a truer understanding ofhis son through his daughter-in­law. Lemmon's performance, surely one of the best ofhis career, drives the point home with a personal frustration that becomes the heart of the movie. 
------~-­
-----~----------~­
Sports Brie :S Friday, March 26, 19s2 -page w 
::::H~\-~7~b;t;'~(~)h~s;~;r~l'~t'r;:a~n~u~T~h:t~'.~4~s:s~ri~C:U:I~f;t'l~l~P~r;.t~'5~·s~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::r::;:::::::::::~==~~~~~~~~;;
::\wBASKETBALL 
Two home matchesare on tap this weekenu for the NBA
The Notre Datne Invitationaltrack meet will 
Eaatern Conference

Notre Dame lacrosse team. The Irish, who stand at 2-2, play host to
be held tomorrow, all uay, at Cartier Field. The meet, hosted bv the Atlantic Division 
the Michigan Lacrosse Club tomorrow and the Chicago Lacrosse w L Pet. GB
Irish track team, begins the 1982 campaign for the Notre Dam~ out-.783
Boston 54 15 door track team. -The Observer • Phtladelphta 47 21 691 6.5 contest will begin at 1:30. -The Observer New Jersey 35 34 .507 19 Washtngton 
Club on Sunday. Tomorrow's match starts at noon, while the Sunday 
34 34 500 19.5 New York 
30 39 435 24 Central Division Mtlwaukee 47 22 681
The ND women's tennis team travels to the state 
Larry Gallo's Irish baseball team, now 4-6 on the season, Atlanta 33 35 465 13.5 
of Illinois for a pair ofmatches this weekend. This afternoon, Sharon DetrOit 33 36 .478 14
take to the road again this weekend. Tomorrow, Notre Dame travels 
31 38 .449 16Indiana

Petro's Irish take on Western Illinois in a 2 p.m. match. Then tomor­
to Cincinnati for a doubleheader beginning at 1 p.m. On Sunday, it's Chtcago 28 40 412 18.5 row, NO will face the powerful University oflllinois in a 9 a.m. start. Cleveland 15 53 .221 31.5
offto Xavier for another twinbill. The two series will begin a string of 
The Irish ( 0-6) will be looking for their first win ofthe spring season. 
12 road games in a row for the Irish. -The Observer Weatern Conference -The Observer Midwest Division w L Pet. GB San AntoniO 42 
27 609 Denver 39 
30 .565 3 Houston 38 32 543 45 KansasCtty
The ND-SM C Sailing Club will open its spring 25 44 362 17
The ND Windsurfing Club wm hold a very im­
23 46 333 19

season by hosting the annual Freshman Icebreaker Regatta this Dallas 
portant meeting for all members on Wednesday, March 31, at 9 p.m. Utah 19 51 .271 23.5 
weekend, March 25-27. Any first-year sailors who would like to race 
Pacific Division

in the Grace Pit. A vote will be taken at-this time to determine a 
in this regatta should contactj.B. at 8228. -The Observer Los Angeles 47 22 681 
merge with the sailing club. A small party will follow. -The Ob­23 1.5
Seattle 45 .662 
Golden State 38 31 551 9 Phcentx 37 31 
server 
544 9.5 Portland· 35 33 515 11 5 San Otego 16 54 229 31 5 
Yes1erday'a Results

A mandatory meeting of one representative of
The last home meetof the season for the ND-SMC Detrott 100, Phtladelphta 98 each Bookstore Basketball team will be held on Monday, March 29, Golden State 107, Utah 105 
men's and women's gymnastics club will be held on Sunday at 2 p.m. 
Houston 1 08, Portland 95 
at 7 p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium. Schedules will be dis­
at SMC's Angela Athletic Facility. The Golden Cup Invitational Denver 129, San Otego 117 tributed and rules discussed at this time. -The Observer 
features the club in action against the team from Purdue. -The Today'aGamea DetrOit at Boston 
Observer 
Atlanta at lndtana Phtladelphta at Cleveland New Jersey at Washtngton Los Angeles at San Antomo 
The Water Polo Club will practice at the Rockne The SMC softball teatn will host Notre Dame this New York at Chtcago Kansas CUy at Dallas 
Saturday. Gametime is 1 p.m. -The Observer 
Pool on Monday from 4-6 p.m. Contact john at 7816 ifyou have any Mtlwaukee at Phoemx Houston at Seattle 
questions. -The Observer 
Portland at Golden State 
Classifieds  The Observer wtll accept classilieds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classilieds to appear tn the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to insertton. All classtfieds must be prepatd. etther in person or through the matI.  
NOTICES ANITA RAMKER: THE WOMAN WITH THE HEAVENLY VOICE SUNDAY, MARCH28, AT3 P.M. MOREAU HALL'S LITTLE THEATRE, SAINT MARY'S TYPING SERVICE. 684-4125 ATIENTION SMC STUDENTS!! Applica­tions are now available at the LeMans Student AC!Mtles Ofhce lor Student Government Comm1sstoners P1ck one up, ltlltt out and return tt by Friday, March 26th. Any questions?? Call. MurRh x4863, Elatne x51 04 or Beth x4448 Summer Jobs Nattonal Park Cos. 21 Parks, 5000 Opentngs Complete In­formation $5.00 Park Repcrt Mtsston Mtn Co.. 651 2nd Ave W N., Kalispell, MT. 59901 Have you ever become queasy at the sight of squirrel plcturae? Do you want to maka money and be published? Do you like to work with fun people? Do you have a 35mm camera and can you work in a black and while darkroom? Then YOU should apply to be an OB­SERVER PHOTOGRAPHER! Good darkroom skills a mus1; journalism ex­perience helpful but not necessary. Bring a resume staling experience and qualifications along with soma samples of your work to the Observer office on the third floor of La Fortune by March31. The N D -SMC theater pre-sents Mamet s AMERICAN BUFFALOE The bnlliant­somettmes funny, mostfy brutal play by Amenca s most promlstng young playwnght Antoyne Broyard, NY Ttmes Dates March 26 and 27 8:p m Washtngron Hall TYPING SERVICE 684·4 \25 $50,000-$80,000. PER YEAR Are you bored with your JOb. '"ed of worktng for the other man Nat1onal company based tn Lexmgton. Kentucky look1ng for ttve dtstnbutors m seven-county area. Call 1­800-9594 tAll SMC students tnteresled tn JOintng 82· 83 OBSERVER STAFF Organtzattonal meeting IS Monday. March29al6 OOp m tn SMC offtce located tn Regtna South basement Get tnvolved!!! LOST/FOUND Now that 1he onow is gone, hDpeiUiy aomeone wll lnd my GOLD CHAJN. I you do pleaecal Mn at3895. R-lrd. Thin<I ................................................................ LOST: A RED PUU-OVER WHLE JOG­GING AROUND ST. JOE'S LAKE THE MORNING OF MARCH 23. IT WAS HUNG ON A TREE BRANCH. PLEASE CALL RON AT 6261 (200 GRACE). THANK-YOU.  ................................................................ REWARD: LOST GOLD NECKLACE WITH CROSS AT CAMPUS VIEW POOL SENTIMENTAL VALUE Pie­cal 2113-6954 Cos:r···Go.Lo..C'Ei:r.iE.iiFiisH;··c;·iic;ss AT SMC Please call x4802 (SMC) Ltfe has not been the same wtthout tt. Reward Whoever found my Celttc Cross at SMC and called me---please call agm. The cross has greal senrtmental value lor me. Etleen x4602 Reward. loll!one paroforsnga Langeski-at Notre o.,.cln* on March 12 In 1he at­18moon. II bnl pleaH contact Phi at 3779. Thanks. I you lowlt d my bnnl new grey slacks, PLEASEcal8332. LOST: One BUFFALO head nickel. II lound, pie-re11m to W881W1gton Hall, Fridayor Sallrday nilttl· FOR RENT ................................................................ Student toouUlg-deM, sale. $108'omo. 291-1405. ................................................................ Two IUmishad 5 bedroom houses new NO. Aval-next-year and 111m­mer. 234-2626. BE YOUR OWN BOSS Cantlrt-5 bedroom, canplelaly .ll,mlshed house lor 5or 6. Closeto Ca'TlpUB. PH 288-3942. ................................................................ 3-4 bedmom home, ll.mlshed, 3 bkx:ks oil campus. This IUI1mer -.or fall. Graduale students ~­Call Mr. Hoe, 287-9636, days. ................................................................ FURNISHED 4 BEDROOM HOUSE, 925 N. FRANCIS. CLOSE TO NO. AVAlABLE FOR SEPT. CALL AFTER 6: 232-os35 4 Bdrm N Shore $270 mo IDtal. Call Patty 3193228735 Call refunded ..___w_A___N_TE_o____JI TYPING 28 years as a secrerary-­excellenl typ1st, reured $1 00/page call Phyllis 259·2501 Can you fix electnc typewnters? If so. call 284·5127 CAMP COUNSELORS/PROGRAM DIRECTORS wanted lor pnvare Mtchtgan boys/gtrls summer camps sw1mmtng. canoetng, sathng. skung, sports, ntlery, archery, tenms. golf, crafts. camptng, gymnastiCS, calligraphy. dramaltes. cheerleadtng. gUitar Laurence Seeger, 1765 Maple. Northfteld, IL 60093 Send details I NEED RIDERS TO SOUTHERN CAL FOR SUMMER ECONOMICAL!!! CALL TOM234-0515  Summer Restdent Camp Staff needed Mtd-June to early August All pcstttons open· Counselors, Waterfront, Cooks and nurse Contact Gtrl Scouts of Stngtng Sands. 15985 S A 23, Granger, lndtana 46530 219-277-0900 ., FOR SALE USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought, sold, searched ERASMUS BOOKS Tues-Sunday, 12-6 1027 E Wayne (One block south of Eddy-Jefferson tntersec­tlon) USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED SAT SUN 9·7 CASPERSON 130J BUCHANAN RD , NILES SURPLUS JEEPS $65, CARS $89, TRUCK $100 Stmtlar bargatns avatlable Call for your directory on how to pur· chase 602-998·0575 Ext 3648 Call refundable YOU DESERVE THE BEST Jalra Con­sultant Penny Penrod 291-8310 M·F BUY AND SELL YOUR BOOKS AT PAN­DORA S 937 SOUTH BEND AVENUE 233-2342 SectiOn sales thts week only_ Econom1cs and Ltterature 5&o. off used Itiles We now carry THE MILITANT TICKETS Need extra ttckels lor graduallon Call Mark at3008 need 6 fl)c for graduatiOn ceremony bert 1484 DESPERTEL Y NEED 6 TICKETS FOR THE 1982 GRADUATION CEREMONY­PLEASE C,t.LLJOHN AT7695 I NEED EXTRA GRADUATION TICKETS CALL BRIAN 1073 I PERSONALS J Happy Btrthday Anna Welsh! Have a great day' Twenty tsn t scary tt s super! Thanks tor helptng me get through my un­bearbale at 11me ftrst year Ill mtss you thiS summer Love. Your favonte SIS, Kas­sy THere IS a crew guy named John who by h1s own descnptton thtnks he should work lor PLAYGIRL but they JUSt lei htm sell SUBSCRIPTIONS READ MY LIPSII!!! THE CIRCUS IS COMING! THE CIRCUS IS COMING! II you don 1 know what you wantto do, and don t kriow how to f1nd out· come to a career plannong workshcp Wednesday, March 31. 3:30·5:30 at the Placement Bureau, Admtmstratton Butldtng Room 222 Stgn up by calling 239-5200  CAREER PLANNING HELPS. Come to a career planning workshop on Wed­neSday, March 31, 3:30-5:30. Ad­ministration Bldg., Room 222. Sign up by calling 239-5200. Knock em dead, Joe One ARE YOU READY FOR "KISSER"? SIGN-UPS ARE MONDAY, MARCH 29TH FROM 7:00 -9:00 AT LA FORTUNE. DON'T MISS YOUR CHANCE IN THE HOTTEST NEW AN TOSTAL EVENTII The Party Marshmallow returns to NO thiS weekend tn full glory Look for htm tn the area of campus deSCffbed by the thtrd book in J R R Tolkten s tnlogy tn I he hall of the craz1es. on the floor of BICYCLE PICK UP-Gate 14 Stadium, Tues. Wad, Thurs. 30, 31, 1. Each dily from 1 to 4 p.m. Bring TAG to claim bike. Don'tlorgat your BIKES I The Top 20 Time Tunnel With Host TIM NEELY Sunday Nights at 6 pm OnWSNDAN64 This weak: The top 20 songs for thts week tn 1966 tncludtng records by the Beatles, Herman s Hermtts, The Rolling Stones, and a heap ol others HEY MONTANA DIVISION OF THE PTL CLUB! Welcome back to South Bend After much beer pressure and harass-Ktllabag and Ktnderstadl aren r the same wtthour us Of course Ron and Dan wtll always have rhetr cowgtrls (tn thetr dreams) Let s ltre up that ·vtlamtn A th1s weekend Jf there s any lett-you spcnges Well thts IS the end of an old las· htoned, un~que, qwte quatnt but New­fangled personal Thanks Ron and Dan for drtvtng You ennched our hves wtth much crud tty And spectal thanks to Kathy tor betng the best BAG tn the whole world! PS Vt QUANT A LeMans lormal·goers BEWARE!!! There wtll be a Pee-Wee lose on the dance tloor Also look oul for hts archttecture fnend who wears makeup DETROIT CLUB beach party Walsh party room Sat ntghl wear your beach clothes COMING SOOON to a theatre near you AMY THE MIDGET THAT ATE DAYTONA BEACH A new ktnd or love story starnng that star stunted m1dget from U of Mtamt Costarnng BRIAN WOODS. $4 N·s Stanford, and a cast of thousands HIRED HANDS BE HAPPY, AND SMILEIIII IT IMPROVES THE OFFICE'S ATMOSPHERE SO MUCH !II RUGBY RUGBY RUGBY SAT -~lTEPAN FIELD GAMETIME 12;30 Rugby lives! ·Beaux Arts goes lo the Louvre Saturday 27 fearunng the Tarantulas! Don t know what the Louvre ts all about? Ftnd out tn lhe Architecture library -books on It are on the reserve. See you Saturday. WANTED· A relat10nsh1p wtth any female­-no stnngs attached. Call Mike  Why do they call htm Ntek C? Whc ts Sean Sulhvan? Is Horse really gettng mamed?Why IS Tuck so confused? S1nce Danny D cant play wtll he be orunk on Saturday? Or stoned? Or both? Ftnally, are all RUGBY players stuptd? FIND OUT SAT AT STEPAN CENTER M P ---DROP-THAT LOOSER!! Mtss Prestdent. Lets play shuffleboard Maybe the pclice won r.break up the party thiS t1me Love, Your Sergeamt-at-arms TRACY. THANKYOU FOR THE LAST SIX MONTHS--COULON T HAVE '.tADE IT WITHOUT YOU DINNER '' GONNA BE GREAT! LOVE YOU, KEVIN Whc are the loudest and slouchtest women at NO-SMC? ObJectors to SIMON (like me) please make 11 known through personals or con­ttnue to suffer ATTENTION ATTENTION ATTENTION today not only Ia II Rudy Fernandez's bi"hday, but II Is also Pam Gorski's. BUI don't wish them happy bl"hday, wish them happy KARMA. You may never gat a chancallkethla again. DENiSE SMITH IS TWENTY-ONE ANITA!!! COME AND HEAR A GIRL NAMED ANITA RAMKER SUNDAY. MARCH 28. IN SAINT MARYS LITTLE THEATRE, MOREAU HALL LYONS HALL FOODSALES OFFERS THE BEST IN FRESH, THICK CRUST PIZZA DEUVERED ANYW11ERE OON SOUTH QUAD FOR THE NOMINAl CHARGE OF ON SOUTH QUAD FOR THE NOMINAL DEUVERY CHARGE OF THURSDAY NIGHTS FROM g:30TO 11 AND ORDER YOURS. ALSO: EVERY WEDNESDAY NIGHT IS GUEST CELEBRITY NIGHT WITH WELL· KNOWN CAMPU5-FIGURES WORKING THE COUNTER! PITTSBURGH CLUB EASTER BUS -Sign-ups THIS SUNDAY, MARCH 28 AT 8:00 P.M. In Lafortune Little Theater. SPECIAL HOUDAY FARESIIIII $38.00 ROUND TRIP and $26.00 ONE WAY. Bus leaves NO Thurs . Apnl 8 at 4 00 pm lrom the CCE. Bus returns on Mon . Aprtl 12 at 1 :00 pm from the Greyhound Termmal tn Downtown Pittsburgh Payment must be made tn FULL al stgn-ups No Refunds Ques· ttons? -­Call Bnan Etchenlaub at 1561 Also ELECTIONS A meettng Wtll follow s1gn-ups for those tnterested 1n runntng for next years offtcers MONIQUE-1 LIKE LONG WALKS: ESPE· CIALL Y WHEN THEY ARE TAKEN BY PEOPLE WHO ANNOY ME ATIENTJON PE WOMEN!!! Vote for the team that combines expenence wrth en­thustasml!! Vote CAROL CAMP--­PRESIDENT RALONOA MASON---VP on FRIDAY, MARCH 26!11! Dear LUCY .I LOVE YOU! VICTOR  The Beaux Arts Ball(for these of you un­familiar wtth the affatr) ts the semesterty costume ball pur on by the students of the Architecture department opened to the enttre campus of Notre Dame. nyou en­JOY crazy costumes, dtmented danctng and general kooktness make an ap.o pearance at the longest runmng party tradition See an ark1e tn 1ts natural habitat The theme for thiS semester IS ·Beaux Arts goes to the Louvre , so come as anyth1ng from a museum (even 1f us tn the Chteago Art lnstttute or the Toledo Tuxedo ExhtbttiOn). Thts Satur­d~y Deadline for Fall Semester Program tn Mextco at the UNIVERSIDAD IBEROAMERICANA--Fn.. Mar 26 See Marcta LeMay. Center lor Expenenttal Learntng, 1110 Mem. Lib. 239-5319°JO'o JOIN AM·64 EVERY NIGHT THIS WEEK FOR FREE ALBUM GIVE-A-WAYS FOLLOWING THE ALBUM HOUR AT 11·00 P M STAY TUNED TO NOTRE DAMES BEST ROCK--WSND. AM-64!!1 II you lound my brand new grey slacks, PLEASE call8332 Carrot. Shouldn t you be planttng your seeds soon? 1m expeC!tng you to ftll up my basket! Rabbtt ITS COMING!! The BIG "0 ., Are you ready Eddte, Raoul, Doug, Chrts, Joan. er all? THIS IS IT!!I! Break a leg! 0· Sweetheart RMR Regtna Mane. you lusctous little nurse, Are you prepared tor my naughty httle verse, Wart1ng, wa1t1ng, warttng, that s whal Ill do, To spend that c&rtatn Apnl weekend wtth you So run down the Parkway. but don t say a word, And fly to Chrtown on that btg silver btrd. You know you exctte my manes o hormal. So come, come wtth me to the SeniOr Formal Jtm OPENING DAY' OPENING DAY! RED SOlt'Whlle Sox BASEBALL! The BOS­TON CLUB woll take you to the game. TUESDAY. APRIL 6th Stgn up for LIMITED SEATING thts MONDAY. March 29th, 7:00pm, 1sr floor Lafortune Come watch the BOSOX in thetr only ap· pearance before summer Cost IS betng negouated. probably $12-$15.1ncludes beer.IIX, bUS LISA FABIAN-THANK YOU FOR THE BEST T&A ANYONE S EVER GIVEN ME IT WAS VERY TASTY. B C. QUANT A DEAR SECOND FLOOR REGINA. MANY THANKS To· WHOEVER THE HELL WROTE ALL THOSE LOVELY NOTICES TO WAITING FOR NOW WE APPRECIATE THE THOUGHT, BUT IF YOU REALLY WANT OUR ATTENTION. SEND MONEY. WE ARELOOKING FOAWARb TO EXPERIENCING THE WHOLE FLOOR WHEN/IF WE JAM AT SMC. YOU RE OBVIOUSLY A VERY TASTE­FUL GROUP OF YOUNG LADIES· CONGRATULATIONS FOR EARNING OUR HEARTFELT CURIOSITY LOVE AND KISSES, ETC WAITING FOR NOW-JAMES P, TIMMY, SCOTI 0., ROB LL, AND BILLY!IIIII Lusc10us old Karen. Good luck at your new job al the hoteLr m qutte certatn that you II be a perfect "entertainerll!r JPK  
l_  

The Observer -Sports Friday, March 26, 1982-page 11 
With discount clubs 
Allin paces Heritage golf field 

llll.TON HEAD ISLAND, S.C. (AP) -Buddy Allin, using a set ofirons he pulled off a discount house shelf on­ly hours earlier, hirdied the la~t flve holes on the way to a seven-under­par 64 and a tie for the first-round lead yesterday in the JWO,OOO Sea Pines-Heritage Classic. 
Allin, a five-time career winner who once dropp<:d off the tour for a two-year period, shared the top spot with longshot Mike Donald. Donald, who once made a living as a delivery hoy for a llorist shop, found himself 
right  ;tt  home  among  the  hlazing  
blooms  of  azaleas,  wistria  and  
jasmine  that  U>lor  the  llarhour  

Town Golf Linh. lie hirdicd the last f(mr holes to finish offthe best round of his career. 
Allin, who won timr decorations a~ an artillery officer in Vietnam, and Donald were three strokes ahead of <iihhy Gilbt·rt, Mike I\1<:Cullough and David Edwards, tied at 67. 
A big group at 6H was headed hy Jerry Pate, the winner la~t week of the prestigious Tournament Players Championship, and former PCiA tit­leholder John Mahaffey. Also at 6H were <iary Hallberg, Scott Hoch, Ron Streck, 1\ohhy Wadkins, Tommy Valentine, George Burns, Doug Tewell and lloward Twitty 
Tom Watson and Tom K.ite were in a large group at 70. Bill Rogers, who used a victory in this event la~t sea~on a~ a stepping stone to Player of the Year honors, carded a "'2 in 
· tht• mild, calm, cloudy weather. 
Allin, whose last victory came in tht· 1976 Pleasant Valley Classic, dropped off the tour in 1971:! when he hecame dissatisfied with the con­
stant travel. After two seasons as a club pro in California, he returned to the tour and had bc:en stru~gling to regain his form since then. 
He said he'd had his irons res­hafted early this week, didn't like the result, and early yesterday drove to a discount house and bought a set of irons off the shelf -paying the list price of 5422. 
"No," he replied to a question, "they didn't recognize me." 
He didn't have a chance to get them checked for loft and lie, but did it hy eye and decided "they looked about right." He stuck them in the bag and went out to play one of the 
more demanding courses on the tour. He also used a new putter in competition for the first time. 
He was two under par for the first 13 holes -"just kind of ex­perimenting," he said -then we on his birdie binge, using five of the nine new irons to set them up. 

A 6-iron shot left him a 12-footer 
on the 14th and he made it. He dropped a 1s.foot putt after a 9-iron approach on the 15th. A 7-iron shot stopped within four feet of the flag on the I6th and produced a third consecutive birdie. He scored from about 12 feet on the 17th and 18th after hitting a S-iron and a 4-iron. 
"I had no idea I'd made five birdies in a row until I started checking my card," Allin said. 
Versace's Braves will stay welf-stocked 
NEW YORK ( AP)-Dick Versace, Bradlq· ba~kethall coach, still has a well-stocked cuphoard although he loses his entire front line, including Most Valuable Player Mitchell An­derson, from the team that won the 45th National Invitation Tourna­ment title. 
Junior guards Barney Mines and Willie Scott, who had 17 points apiece to lead Bradley scorers in the 67-5H NIT final victory over Purdue Wednesday night, will he returning starters for next season. 
But Versace said Voise Winters, a freshman forward who averaged I 0 points in the flrst three games of the tournament but didn't play in the semifinal and final games in New York hecause of an ankle injury, might be the next Bradley star. 
"He's an exciting player who averaged over 40 points per game in high school to lead the nation as a senior," Versace said. 

The senior front line ofAnderson, David Thirdkill and Donald Reese will be missed by the Braves, who finished the season with a 26-10 record. 
Anderson, who scored 25 points 
in the semifinal victory over Ok­
lahoma and 16 in the triumph over 
Purdue, said winning the NIT and 
the MVP award was "the greatest 
feeling I've had in my four years of 
haskethall. I dreamed of getting in 
the Final Four of the NCAA, but 
didn't get there. I also dreamed of 
getting in some kind of national 
tournament. That's the next best 
thing." 
In winning the title for the fourth time in its 14th NIT appearance, the Braves pulled even with St. John's, N.Y., for the most championships. 
The Braves' other title years were 1957, 1960 and 1964. 
PITTSBURGH CLUB EASTER BUS SPECIAL HOLIDAY FARES!!! $38.00 round trip $26.00 one way 
Sign-ups: THIS SUNDAY--March 28 at 8:ooPM in LaFortune Little Theater. Bus leaves N.D. Thursdav~ AprilS at 4:ooPM from C.C.E. Bus returns on Monday ,A pril12 at 1 :00 PM from Greyhound Terminal in downtown Pittsburgh. Payment must be made in FULL at sign-ups. No Refunds. Questions? ·-Call Brian Eichenlaub at 1581 Elections: a meeting willfollow sign-upsfor those interested in runningfor nextyear's officers. 

FIVE NORTH APARTMENTS 
Efficiencies, 1 & 2 Bedrooms, starting at $151 
• 
AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
CARPETING 

• 
FULL KITCHEN FACILITIES 

• 
POOL 

• 
LAUNDRY FACILITIES 


1819 N. 5th NILES
J(;;Caii590J
684-5590 Just North of Town 

..._ 

BOSTON CLUB 
Opening Day Trip to 
• Red Sox-White Sox Game • (Tues. April 6) 
limited Seating First come--first served. 
I
I
I
I
I
I 
I
I
I
I
I
I 

rtquarr-d. Seau. hmltt"d. Ask about  our low coli Normal. Samt' Day. and  
Group fues. too.I! ALSO LOW COST CONNECTING SERVICE TO NICE AND AMSTtRDAM.  
~  Icelandau-to Lu\embourg. Luxair or Cross;ur connecting serVICe  
~  to other destinations.  
jilll  • Confirmed reservation. •  Free wUle w1th dmner, cognac after.  
~  • Bargam Stopover Tours of Iceland and Luxembourg. •  Bargain car  
~  rentals. •  Purchase t1ckets in U.S.  • All fares subject to change and  
~  government approval.  
Set yuur travt"l Jfl!t'nt or rall800/555·12121or tht toll frt't' lcr-Janda1r numbeor 10 )'nur Iff" I  

bourR). Slopovers ~rmuttd 1ft both dlrt'Cllonl. 14 day advance" purcha1r 
ICELANDAIR!= 
I:Z•J:t:f,i.·lliftt:li21:11,JQ:I:/iii2tlijll•llV:l•lJI 
' ~ 
1 

Sign up Mon March 29 7pm 1stfloor Lafortune Questions: Call Mike 8854 
ICELANDAIR lmODUCES 
NEW BARGAIN FARES TO 
MORE OF EUROPE. 
WXEMBOURG PARIS-----. 
'499 '581 
-IDTRIP ROUIDTRIP 
FROM CHICAGO FROM CHICAGO 
ZUIIICII FRIIKFURT 

'599 •557 
-IDTRIP -IDTRIP 
FROM CHICAGO FROM CHICAGO 
All Apex Fareo: April I ·May 14. 19d2. 7·90 day stay (1-60 days Lu..m· 
The Observer -Sports Friday, March 26, 1982 -page 12 

Houston's Clyde Drexler (right) will lead his in Skip Desjardin's column on page 14. (AP Cougars into the NC4A semi-final tomorrow in photo) New Orleans against North Carolina. Seepreview 
MILWAUKEE (AP)-Bill Barrett ofUCLA broke his own U.S. record in the 200-yard freestyle, while defending champion Texas gained a slim lead in team standings after yes­terday's opening competition of the three-day NCAA Men's Swimming and Diving Championships. 
Barrett's time of 1 minute, 4S seconds bettered his previous mark, set at last year's National Collegiate Athletic Association championships, by one-hundredth of a second. He finished ahead ofsecond place Steve Lundquist ofSouthern Methodist. 
The defending champion Lon­ghorns ended the day's competition at the Walter Schroeder Aquatic Center in suburban Brown Deer 
• 
• • 
-
• 
• en 
~ 
ai 
• Q) 
.><: 
1 ::> ~ 
ci 
0 
O'l 
c 
·~ 
~ 
Ill 
~ ~ 
>. 
.0 
"0 
Q) 
i: 
~ 
Ill (j) 
Q) 
Ill 
C\J CXl 
C) 
• @ 
Texas takes lead inNCAA s-wimming 

• • 
• 
• : 
• • 
• •
• 
• 
• • 
• • • 
. • 
• 
• 
: · 
e 
• 
•
• 
•
• 
-----------------------------------------------------------· 
' 
with 72 points, just one point ahead of UCLA. Southern Methodist and California were tied for third at 40, followed by Stanford with 38. 
The Texas team of James Britt, 
Nick Nevid, William Paulus and Eric 
Finical took the 400-yard medley 
relay in 3:14.24, with Southern Met­
hodist second in 3:14.42 and UCLA 
third in 3:14.91. 
Robin Leamy ofUCLA won the SO­
yard freestyle in 19.85. 
Andy Astbury of Arizona State 
took the 500-yard freestyle in 
4:18.1 5. The defending titlist in that event, Doug Towne of Arizona, failed to qualify tor the final, as he came in with a clocking of 4:27.09 that was 17th among the 20 com­petitors in preliminary heats. 
Robert Bollinger of Indiana won the one-meter diving event with S45.9S points. The defending cham­pion, Randy Ableman of Iowa, finished ninth. 
Gretzky reaches 200points 
CALGARY, Alberta (AP) -Ed­monton Oilers center Wayne Gretzky became the first player in National Hockey League history to get 200 points in a season last night when he assisted on a goal in the first period of a game against Calgary. The 21-year-old super star reached the 200-point mark by a assisting on a goal by Pat Hughes. 
Gretzky won a face-offin Calgary's zone and pushed the puck into a cor­ner where he dug it out against Flames rookie defenseman Steve Konroyd. 
Gretzky then passed to Hughes who scored with a 20-foot slapshot. 
::::::::::::M::~~;:'HOCKE YAi~:::::::l::::::::::::::: 
In this year's NHL playoffformat, the top fourteams in each division make the playoffs, regardless of overall league standing. 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE Adams Division 
W L T GF GA Pis. x·Montreal 43 15 17 340 208 103 Boston 41 24 10 296 256 92 Buffalo 36 24 15 278 245 87 Quebec 31 28 16 331 323 78 Hartford 21 36 17 248 320 59 
Patrick Division x-N Y Islanders 51 15 9 362 230 111 NY Rangers 37 24 13 292 280 87 Ph1ladelph1a 36 30 9 305 298 81 Pittsburgh 28 36 11 283 318 67 Washington 24 40 11 297 319 59 
CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Smythe Dvision 
W L T GF GA Pis x-Edmonton 45 17 14 389 281 104 Calgary 27 32 17 311 323 71 Vancouver 26 33 16 261 276 68 Los Angeles 23 36 15 291 332 61 Colorado 17 47 11 224 331 45 
Norris Division Mtnnesota 34 21 20 322 268 88 Wmn1peg 32 29 13 303 307 77 Ch1cago 28 36 11 314 341 67 
StLOUIS 29 39 7 291 330 65 Toronto 20 39 16 285 354 56 Detro1t 18 46 12 257 340 48 x·Citnched ftrst place tn diVISIOn 
Yesterday's ResuHs Boston 5, Buffalo 1 M1nnesota 4. DetrOit 3 Washington 4. Ph1ladelph1a 3 N Y Islanders 3. Montreal 1 Edmonton 7, Calgary 2 
Today'a Games 
N.Y Rangers at Buffalo St LOUIS at W1nn1peg Edmonton at Colorado 
-
ff'ilE·ouA1fHoli5E! 
•Beer . i
0pen tl11 s!
• Liquor 
3:00am!!· 
• Carry out 
-SINGLES BAR -BOOZE &DANCING 
272-7818 U.S. 31 North (I block south of Holiday Inn) 
181UUIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII...... 


The Observer-Sports Friday, March 26, 1982 -page 13 
... ~·· ...,.., 
• 
Firstplace I 
coiiiiiiiUedfrom page 16 
Cindnnati'~ LaSalle lli).(h School 
durin).( hi!. prt·p career. "I k looked 
at Phil Carter and (oft').( Bell in the 
backfield and thml).(ht he rni).(ht ht· 
able to play ~omt·whert· d~c 
~ooner," says Fau~t. 
Senior~ Mike Shint:r and Tom 
Thayt·r art· moving back to the spots 
they occupied a., sophomort's. 
Shiner return!. 10 tackle and Thayer 
to guard. revt-r~ing tht' switch made 
laM ~pring. 
St·nior tri-captain Mark Zavagnin will till Crable'~ shoe~ at middle:: hnd)at·ker attn playing the weak ~ilk the paM two se;1~on~. And junior Stacey Toran, a weak side starter at t·orrH:rback, take~ over John Krimm·~ job on tht· stron).( side. 
"You really don't replace people 
likt· Crable and Krimm," emphasizes 
l'aust. "You put new people in their 
~pots and you adapt and change 
thing~ to their strength~." 
llnqucstionably, the top priority 
in the next momh will he the same 
one that's haunted the Irish li>r thret' 
Mraight springs -picking a No. I 
quartt•rhack. 
"We didn't really have an es· tahlished quartt·rhack last year," Faust states. "It was very dose he­tween Blair Kid and Tim Koegel. l>ctinitdy, Blair has tht· edge going into ~pring, ht•t·ause he's been a two­year Marter. Right now, it'~ his spot umil it'~ takt·n away hy someone 
else." 
Tlwrt·'·' a I on).( li,o,r ofplayers sitting out workouts to heal injuries. The list includes lint•hackcr Joe Rud­zinski ( ~houldcr ), defensive tackle Kevin <•riflith (knee), defensive tackk Pat Kramer (shoulder), dcfen~ive tal.·kle Mike Kiernan (knee), defensive tackle Tony Picdn (ankle), tailback Tom Merrick (knee), and tight end Rob McGarry (knee). 
Senior center Mark Fischer has 
been hanling severe viruses and may 
Irish track star Paul Doyle accepts the first place award from Domino's Pizza president Tom Monoghan for his meet record decathlon total of 7, 774 during last Sunday's Domino's Pizza Relt~vs. Near(J' /,000 athletes from 68 colleges and track clubs participated in the NCAA -sanctioned meet. (Photo courte.~)' of/Jomino's Pizza Relt~)•S) 
... Spring 
bt: out of action Ji>r a while. Fresh­man Tom l>oergt:r, scht'dulnl to nurse a knet· injury thb spring, might ht· pressed imo servict: thert· in a few Wt'eks. 
Wingback Van Pearcy is at full strength after last summer's knet: surgery, hut he intends to run with the Notre Dame: tra<:k team. "He'll play a little spring ball li>r us," Faust says, "hut ht·'s not going to have any contact because of his knt•e." 
Tht· Irish an: practicing on a Monday-Wednesday-Friday­Saturday limnat. Scrimmagc:s arc slatt·d on two Sawrdays -April I~ and 2c~. 
621 South Bend A 233-4603 
Pabst Old Milwaukee Budweiser 
IOnarts 



Miller lite $8.99/case 12 Budweiser $8.99/case 12 
South Bend Ave. Store 
Call us for all your party needs1 
~ IQQ * 


~ -A-* 
* lAllA ¥ 
FEATURING YOUR FAVORITE 
THREE STOOGES SHORTS 


VIN!ACE THREE STOOCES INSANITY... ALL FEATURINC THE 3 ORICINALS CURLY, LARRY & MOE 
WARNING: These pictures contail'l c:oxtremelv funnv scenes and language and mav be considered shoe and offensive 
EXCLUSIVELY AT THE RIVER PARK THEATRE 
Keg Specials 
$5.99 $5.49 7.29 
*272-2522 Roseland  
VodkaBtJtiW $7.99 Kessler Blenduastf1.i $9.99 Carolans Irish Cream $10.99  
Strohs lf4 Harrells $17.99 Pabst lf2 Harrells $28.99 --------------------~ONLY-­ 

----~ ~--­
Friday, March 26, 1982 -page 14
The Observer 
----~-------~----

CorrJglly inrit11 JOU to 111j01 Saturday Morning Brunch WITH A DISCOUNT 
CLIP & BRING AD WITH YOU 
$100 
Stmn1 F.-4 Lite Srlmlnt1 DHI of OFF , IRUNCHHOURS 
PER PERSON
lltn.tfrl. 11-3 p.a Sit. I L•.·2 p.lll. 1202 E. JEFFERSON 8 A.M.-1 0 A.M. MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 'Four p,., Li•lt 

2 Draftsfor $1 

2-lOpm 

Applicationsfor ASSISTANT TREASURER STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
available in Treasurer's Office 2nd floor LaFortune 
Must presentlybe a Sophomore Accounting major 
Applications Due Friday, Apri12 4:00PM 
SUMMER STORAGE SPACE 
Special discount for ND/SMC students 
CALL 259-0335 'oRESERVE SPACE 
SELF LOCK STORAGE OF MCKIIlLEY 816 East Me Kinley Mishawaka Security Patrol Checks 
.I 
Ir-------------------------~I
1 HolyCrossFathers I 
I  I  
I1  Vocation Counseling  II  
I I1  --­ H ow do I know  I II  
I  if I have a vocation to the priesthood?  I  
I I  Wat is the academic  II  
~  and formation program for becoming a priest?  1  
II  ''~' What scholarships and  II  
1  financial aid are available for seminary training?  I  
I  I  
I1  ''~' What are the various  I1  
I  _a~~-t_:>~ic  ministries of the Holy Cross priests?  I  
I  How do I pray  
I  if I'm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood  
I  and I'm not sure?  
I  
I  
I  ford pt.•r'tOndl. confldt>nlldllflft·~•t•v. v.11h no ohltq<J!~tJn plt'd~ v.11lt' or rdll !ht• \CXdlu111 .h~r•<lnr  
I II  ll  Re\ -\n,lrt•lt•\t·rllt· Bo, 5-ll Notrt• l)t.~mt· lr;,J ~n;)n For dJVtJIIlllll•lll <dll b<'i~····n 8 «• J m  

I dndh .!0 I' m I 
1 p one: 
1
I 219239-6385 1
I 
I 

FinalFour 
Watch for Ewing, Hoyas 
Ah, to be in New Orleans. All this week, the French Quarter has been jammed, no doubt, with more than the usual number ofrevellers. 
The greatest show in sports has come to the city ofsin, suds and song. Tomorrow is the day many call the best ofall for sports fans -the NCAA Basketball Champion­
ship Semi-Finals. The winners will be there. john Thompson, Rob Wil­

liams, Dean Smith, John Wooden, 'Kid' Thomas  
Valentine, the Preservation Hall jazz Band and the  1980. They stunk up arenas last year. They struggled  
McCray Brothers.  early, and even lost their conference. But they're here,  
The losers will be there too. Ray Meyer, Billy Packer,  and they're the Cardinals of Louisville.  
john Wooden, AI Hirt, Frank Boggs and, believe it or  With the inevitable passage of Darrell Griffith to the  
not, Dean Smith.  NBA, the Cards fell on bad times. Pancho, Wiley, jerry  
It all gets underway at exactly 2:39 CST tomorrow in  and the McCrays remained, but that winning combina­ 
the cavernous Superdome, before the largest crowd  tion was lost. This year, thanks largely to the addition of  
ever to see a college basketball game. And it will, if in­ two sophomores, Louisville is back. Lancaster Gordon  
dications are correct, be a truly great weekend.  and Charles jones have made a great contribution. Gor­ 
Ladieeees and gentlemen! Let me introduce the prin­ don fills it up from outside, while jones absolutely is  
ciples for the main event.  fearless going to the hoop.  
The Cardinals looked awesome in the-game-that-was­ 
Black comes down the court and  to-be-a-classic. They abused Middle Tennessee State, upset winners over odious Kentucky. But they looked  
strikes fear into the hearts of op­ half-hearted in getting by Minnesota. That's typical of this team, and no one knows whether they'll come out  
ponents when he raises his fist to  hot or cold. Ifthey are on, they can walk all over anyone  
signal the offense. Four fingers.  in the field. If they're not, they can walk all over them­selves. Turnovers will spell the difference for Denny  
Four corners. For-get it.  Crum's crew.  
Finally, in this corner, the giants. Well, qne giant and a  
phenomenal bunch ofhenchmen. They've got what was  
In this corner, the most consistent team in the  billed as the best freshman class in history. They're led  
country. They own the best record, they've been No. 1  by the United States Basketball Writers Association's  
more weeks than anyone else, you saw them last year  Coach of the Year. And they just might he unstoppable.  
when this show played in Philadelphia. They are led by  They're the Hoyas ofGeorgetown.  
the man who literally invented the most popular trend  Pat Ewing came out ofCambridge (Mass.) Rindge and  
in the game today. They're the Tar Heels of North  Latin High School with very impressive athletic creden­ 
Carolina!  tials, if less-than-dismal academic ability. He was the  
Perhaps it was unfair to list Smith with the losers  most sought after player in the country, and already is  
above-he's one of the most successful coaches in the  proving why. In one season he has matured and  
game. But let's not get too over-zealous in our praise.  developed as much as his cross-distict rival, Ralph  
He's been here six times before and never gone home  Sampson, has in three. Though he still has a tendency to  
with the kewpie doll. This year, however, may be his  want to rip opponents' heads off. and looks childish in  
best chance in many moons. Carolina is awesome - that stupid T-shirt, he's the best player in the Final Four.  
and young. Last year the Heels made it to the finals, and  Thompson has three very talented seniors to provide  
then came back this year with that much more ex­ ballast on a team that includes first-year standouts An­ 
perience under their belts.  thony jones and Bill Martin as well. One ofthe seniors is  
Jimmy Black is the only senior ofsignificance -but  among the most decorated in the nation. Eric "Don't  
read that major significance. More often than not, ifyou  Call Me Sleepy" Floyd is one of the best. Enough said.  
can stop him, you at least have a shot at the Heels. james  But Ed Spriggs provides needed reliefwhen Ewing tires,  
Worthy is a junior; Sam Perkins and Matt Doherty are  and Eric Smith just may be the glue that hold the whole  
just sophomores; but the three may already comprise  house ofcards together.  
the most powerful frontcourt unit in the country.  Against Oregon State, the Hoyas put on an unfat­ 
Mike Lopresti of the Gannet News Service had  homable display. Flawless is probably the best way to  
probably the best description of Smith's favorite  describe it.  
weapon in his story this week: "Black comes down the  So watch for Carolina to slow things down, trying t()  
court, he said, and strikes fear into the hearts of op­ get inside to Worthy and Perkins. Watch the Hoyas,  
ponents when he raises his fist to signal the offense.  who have outscored their opponents by an average of  
Four fingers. Four corners. For-get it."  16 points per game all season long, play a ferocious  
In this corner, the surprising young challenger.  zone defense. Look for Smith to conduct the symphonic  
They're quick. They're well-coached. They win almost  offensive movements. See Ewing, arms outstretched  
every other tournament they play in. They were  like a DC-1 0, swallow shots.  
supposed to lose to Tulsa, or Missouri, or Boston Col­ Monday night. watch a classic. North Carolina and  
lege, but they're here. They're the Cougars of Houston.  Georgetown.  
Houston was No. 5 in team offense this year, but its  TOURNEY TIDBITS -Jimmy the Greek picks the  
defense was questionable. Nonetheless, the Cougars  Heels by six over Houston and the Hoyas by five over  
made it. "When the tournament started, Coach (Guy  Louisville ...The real applause for prognostication  
Lewis) told us he was coming to New Orleans no matter  must go to Playboy's Anson Mount. Before the season  
what," said Williams, the Cougars· scoring machine.  even began, he ranked Georgetown No. 1, North  
"But he told us we were welcome to come with him if  Carolina No. 2, Louisville No. 4 and Houston No.  
we wanted. Now here we are."  18 ...Monday's game will be shown on CBS, with tip-off  
Williams and Houston had better not blink, however.  slated for 8:12 p.m. EST ... ABC will counter in the  
They take on Carolina in the first game and, since there  ratings battle with the Academy Awards. NBC will give  
will be no consolation game this year, they may not be  up without a struggle, offering the box-office flop "New  
around long.  York, New York."  
In this corner, the once retired champs, looking to do  (Editor's note: Skip Desjardin's column appears  
a Muhammed Ali impersonation. They won it all in  every Friday in The Observer).  
'  
t  
t  

Also FREE Coffee or Tea

t Best Chinese &American Food in Town 
with dinner 
(WITH COUPON)

t *Reasonably Priced &Hospitable 
t FEATURING: t eBUFFET...$2.99 6Hotdishes & 15Salad Bar Items.
t 
Great for your next Business Man's Lunch
t 
Weekdays--11 :30-3:00 
t 
t eSEAFOODPLATTER...$3.95 ~ • DEEP FRIED SHRIMP ...$3.95 
130DixieHWY.Soulh 

t • DEEP FRIED COD FISH ..•$3.95 ~~~:~::;d t e DEEP FRIED OCEAN PERCH ...$3.95 nexttoRandall'slnn 'Cl t 
f (includes potato or french french fries and dinner roll) 2]2,~ 7JJ6 t 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
--------------------------~ 



Molarity 
, )J;D lo.JH[N Ut FllvALLf4DT HER .8ACK1D HI~ ROOM TilER£ WER£ NYLONS ANP .B~? ALi-b'vEFi THE [)ORH 
~HAHA 
"-..· 
~Sf li£M4YHAV& 

50 IS IT 7lJMAK&SOMUAO· A5 IJA()AS /CAL CJIAN6f5 OV&I< j II£ THIJ//61fT, ATAPM/95KJI5, KING. . GCO!U!C? \ ~ 
. \ ~;/"' 
Simon 
5 Certain 31 Flying
The Daily Crossword 

school: prefix abbr. 32 Shy 9 Ray 33 Burning 13 Sandarac 35 Coura~~eous tree one 14 Indonesian 37 Everlasting 
island 38 TheMad­15 Bout 39 Female deer 16 Boatwith 40 Near, Far 
twin hulls or Middle 18 Condiment 41 Yes 
bottle 42 Pianist 19 Most acute Peter and 20 Somewhat family 
drab 44 -Standish 22 Direction 45 Perfect 23 Boat used 46 Fall behind 
in sculling 47 Boats for 24 Stage items hunting 
Thursday's Solution 


5 Lower 45 "-Song 6 Smallwagon Go out of 7-mode My Heart" 8 Lifesaving 46 Book: Fr. 
boat 47 Lumber 9 Mineralof 48 Pelt many colors 49 A Waugh 
10 Case for 50 Rowboat small 51 Premlnger articles or Klemperer 
11 Roscoe, 52 Carilloand of films Durocher 12 Insect 53 Anglo·Saxon
All Rights Reserved 

15 Like some slave triangles 56 Two-kind 
Tonight 
~J.~.JD:..u::Du:Jj -.6\.0:Jtij :D.UJ."J u~?Ja~~ 
We can't help it! We're in a tropical moodas we feature: 
BANANA BLISS ,BANSHEE, ANDSINFUL SADIE DRINK SPECIALS! 

Saturday nite: The Beach Party Extravaganza! 
M ai T ai andpina colada special! Tan line contest! Beach attire requested! Oh, also lli'JJ £J-:J.'Y:J':l':J: ~ 
lheJJbserver========================================= 
~4[)~~~===========================F=r=id=a=y,=M=~=c=h=2=6='=1=98=2===p=a=ge===l5 
Michael Molinelli 

WOW • THAT WitS MY JUNIOr( YEA~ IN '!i7 ... (jeEZ. TiHE 6 r:t... )'IN(~ /: ~~~ 


WHAI SHOULD WE !FEAR
TKI\1'~ TRUE ,JOKN. 

\"ll:>T •.. 11-lt U€ATH SQ<.JRO~
1\ND I'M f\rRAID \"HAT 

if TilE: MlllrANT ~k'.ftl
\1.\fl~ 1\ffi.ltS TO YDU 

WING-\ OR. THE. "RADlC.Al.
A:l WELL ... 

6UE:R llA~ DF n\E \.Eff 
WilllC,i' 

ACROSS 27 Seasoning 1 &chism 28 Not many 


Campus 
Friday, March 26 
•4 
· 5 p.m. -Spanish Tertulia. Basement of LaFortune, Venga para hablar con nosotros y prac­ticar cl arte de conversar 

•5:
15 p.m. -Bulla Shed, Bulla Shed, Sponsored by Campus Ministry 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, "The Innocent", Anncnbcrg Auditorium, Snite Musuem of Art, Sponsored by Department ofCommunication and Tl;teatre J 1 ad· mission 

•7:30, 
9:30 p.m. Film, "Mon Oncle d'All)erique", Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's College, Sponsored by SAPB, sI admission 

•7:45 
· 9:.30 p.m. -Conference, "Lebanon and the Prospects ofWar and Peace in the Middle East", Khalil ltani, Center for Continuing Education, Sponsored by Kellogg Institute, Free 

•s 
p.m. -Play, "American Buffido", Doug Krietzherg, Washington Hall, Sponsored by ND/SMC Second Scene, SI admission 

•Midnight 
-WSND-FM, Rock Fight, New Wave vs. Classic Rock 


Saturday, March 27 
•9 
a.m. · 10 p.m. -Conference, "Lebanon and the Prospects ofWar and Peace in the Middle East", Khalil ltani, Center tor Continuing Education, Sponsored by Kellogg Institute, Free 

•7:.30, 
9:30 p.m. Film, "Mon Oncle d'Amerique", Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's College, Sponsored by SAPB, J 1 admission 

•8 
p.m. -Play, "American Buffalo", Doug Krietzberg. Washington Hall, Sponsored by ND/SMC Second Scene, sl admission 


Sunday, March 28 
•9 
. 12 a.m. -Conference, "Lebanon and the Prospects of War and Peace in the Middle East", Khalil ltani, Center tor Continuing Education, Sponsored by Kellogg Institute, Free 

•6 
p.m. ·-WSND-AM, Top Twenty Time Tunnel, 

•s 
. 7 p.m. -Election, Society of Women En· gineers, Farley Basement 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, Contemporary Moral Issues, Father Ed Malloy, Sacred Heart Church Crypt, Parish lenten program 

•s 
p.m. -WSND·AM, Rock in Retrospect 

•10 
p.m. -WSND-AM., Sports Sunday 


T.V. Tonight 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. !O:OOp.m. 
ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
12:00a.m. !2:30a.m. 


16 NBC Ma!(azine 22 Dukes of Hazzard 28 Benson 34 Wa\hington Week In Review 28 Open All Night 34 Wall Street Week 16 NBC Movie: "Magic" 22 Dallas 28 The Phoenix 
34 Creativit)' with Bill Moyers 34 Inside Story 22 CBS Special: "Capitol" 28 Strike l'orce 34 Non·l'iction Television 16 NewsCenter 16 22 21. Eyewitness New~ 28 Newswatch 2H 34 The Dick Cavett Show 16 Tonight Show 
22 CBS Movie: "The Dark" 28 ABC New~ Nightlinc 28 Saturday Night Uve 16 SCTV Comedy Show 

------. 
-
.. 

50 Tiny 
opening 54 Cargo boat 55 Escort 
boats 
57 Clifford, the play· wright 
.58 Atadis· tance 59 English 
college 60 Ten: pref. 61 Metallic 
fabric 62 Flower 
DOWN 1 Billiard 
ball holder 2 Dies­3 Destiny 4 Troop-
carrying boat 17 State of 
disorder 21 Far 23 Timid 24 Turkish 
title 25 Give back 
money 26 Speechify 27 Weight 28 Last 29 Take out 30 Shoe strips 32 Profession 34 Cargo boat 36 Ship·tO· 
shore boats 37 Goddess of the dawn 39 Currency note: abbr. 43 Mischievous one 44 Hair on a horse 
I' 


~--~-----~ ------~--------------~--------­

Friday, March 26, 1982-page 16 
Spring practices begin tontorrow-at Cartier 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
It hasn't been the most pleasant of winters for Gerry Faust. For the first time in 18 years, the Notre Dame head coach wasn't able to bask in the glory that follows a successful foot­ball season. It was a tough assign­ment to handle for a person with an insatiable appetite for winning. 
"I'm hungry," confesses Faust. "I can't wait to start going again." 

Spring Football '82 
romorrow afternoon ends an off­season that may have seemed like an eternity to the coaching staff. The Irish begin the first of 20 spring workouts scheduled between now and the annual Blue-Gold game on 

-
May 1. To Faust, spring drills are 

just what the team needs to erase the Faust is eager to get back on the winning track, 
memory of last season's 5-6 slate. 
"When things don't go your way in 
football, you don't sit around and 

NDswimming
complain and make excuses," he ex­plains. "You just go out and work harder at it." 

Three womennamed All-Americans 
Since December, he's had the 

players on a program that consisted of weightlifting, quickness an<}' By DONNA WITZLEBEN Jeanine Blatt, Kathy Latino and place finish in the 100-meter but­flexibility drills. But the serious bt¢'­Sports Writer Teri Schindler all placed in the top terfly in 1.00.38. ness begins Saturday. "We didn't 12 of their events to qualify for All­Schindler, a junior from Pitts­have a good year," he says. "That Three Notre Dame women swim­American honors. burgh, placed 12th in the 50-meter 
mers were named All-Americans
makes us eager to get started ;tgain. Blatt, a senior from Dayton, Ohio, breaststroke with a :33.59 time to during the 1982 National Swimming
We just want to get out on the field was named All-America in three earn her title. 
and establish the team." and Diving Championships held at events. She finished with a 5:14.05 
Also participating in the meet was He'll have an abundance of ex­Allegheny College the weekend of time in the 500-meter freestyle to 
the relay team of senior Rita Har­

March 11-13. By Friday the Irish
perience out on that field to choose place fifth, and then placed seventh 
rington and juniors lee Anne Bris­from. The Irish are minus only three in the 1650-meter freestyle with a
were holding 19th place out of 65 
lawn, Sheila Roesler and Jean
See SPRING, page 13

first-string players (linebacker Bob Division III schools participating. time of 18:01.22. Blatt won her third Murtagh, swimming in the 200-and All-America placement with a 400-meter medley relay and the 2:00.01 time in the 200-meter 
200-and 400-meter free relay. freestyle, finishing tenth. Latino, a senior who hails from "We were satisfied with their ac­
Poughkeepsie, N.Y., claimed All­heivements," stated a pleased Coach
Gerry Faust: A yearin the life 
Dennis Stark. ''I'm proud ofthe threeAmerica titles in two events with a 


beginning with the first spring practice tomor­row. See stories by Chris Needles and Kelly Sul­livan on this page. (Photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
"He's looked at football from both sides now" is how Judy Collins might put it. "Both win and lose..." 
This time last year, Gerry Faust was a national celebrity. After 18 years at Moeller High in Cincinnati, he had fulfilled his boyhood dream to come to Notre Dame to succeed Dan Devine as head coach. 

Those first few months, he was living out his fantasy. He spoke at every dorm on campus, repeating his story about riding his bike to CYO football as a little kid and.. whistling the Notre Dame fight song. He could recruit Parade All-Americans and catch a frisbee between his legs with the best of them. And then there was the first day of spring practice, where Faust was at his best. He scurried around the practice field that day in his best Groucho Marx gait, shaking everyone's hand like only a politician could. ABC's Wide World of Sports was there, and so was everyone else, it seemed. The atmosphere was pure Hollywood. One year later, it is all just a memory. Tomorrow afternoon at three, Gerry Faust will in­itiate his second season of spring practices on Cartier Field. ABC won't be there; Faust will have to settle for Channel16. That's what a 5-6 season will do to a future legend. As fun as those first few months were, the fall was twice as bad. Problem is, all everyone remembers is Kurt Becker wasting Bob Crable; Steve Bryant outjumping Chris Brown for the two-point conversion; Rick Stockstill picking apart the Irish secondary; Jonathan Williams running circles around the NO defense; and the entire Miami fiasco. Gerry Faust has learned his lesson the hard way. So, starting tomorrow, things will change. More hitting. More scrimmages. Pats on the behind being replaced by good, swift kicks. "In football, when things don't go your way," says Faust, "you don't sit around and complain and make excuses. You just go out and work harder at it." For someone who had lost only 1 7 games in his life before last year, Faust took last season's disaster pretty well. Now, he is more determined than ever to give Notre Dame a winner. "When you have a great year," Faust says, "you'd like to get to next season, but as a coach you want to say 'It can wait, let's bathe in the good times.' 
"But when you don't have a good year, you want to 

All-Americans and their accomplish­buttertly in L.: T 1:;.L.l, and an etghftt ments. They all did very well." 
fifth place finish in the 200-meter 

The All-American Girls 
get started right away." 
The new "get-tough" policy won't be the only change. There are three new assistant coaches, players trying new positions and an assortment of new of­fensive alignments designed to cut down on missed as­signments. And, for all you second guessers, some good news -the wingback concept, for all intents and purposes, pas been eliminated. 
But some things never change. For the third straight year, there will be a quarterback derby, with Blair Kiel getting the post position to start out. "We're gonna try to come out of spring with a quarterback that we feel we can go with," says Faust. "One that's an established quarterback. last year, we didn't come out of spring with one. It was very close between Kiel and (Tim) Koegel. 

"But if we don't have one by the end of spring, we'll have to see what the freshman (Todd lazon) can do." 
Don't be surprised if Kiel gets the nod next fall no matter what, even if he still hasn't learned to throw a pass on the run. Recall that, after all the practices last spring, the star of the Blue-Gold Game was Scott Grooms, who should contend for the starting quarter­back position again this year -at Miami ofOhio. 
But Faust sees one advantage in his corner this spring. "I know the players now," he says. "last spring, I didn't know hardly any of them, and they didn't know me. Familiarity between us and them is really gonna help out." 
The 1982 opener against Michigan is still six months away, but preparations begin tomorrow, culminating with the Blue-Gold Game on May 1. 
From this day on, though, Gerry Faust will be under the microscope, with students and alumni watching his every move with the most critical of eyes. But those who know Gerry Faust say that he always accepts a chal­lenge. 
This may be the toughest one yet. 



