• • . SHOWCASE -page 6 


VOL XVI, NO. 76 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY,JANUARY 25, 1982 
NDalumnus begins race for Senate 
l:.'tlitor's Note: Mike Kendall, 34, a 
Notre Dame graduate, discussed his 
candidacy for the Democratic 
nomination to the United States 
Senate with Saint Mary's Executive 
Editor Mary Agnes Carey yesterday. 
The jasper, Ind., Democrat, aformer 
Observer features writer, will face 
incumbent Senator Richard Lugar 
ifKendall secures the May primary 'nomination. 

Mike Kendall 
Q: What have you done since 
•you'r1e left Notre Dame? (Kendall earned three degrees from Notre Dume: u B.A. degree in History in 1970 and graduate degrees in law ami modern European history in 
1973 and 1974, respectively.) 
A: I was in the army in '73 and '74. I went to ROTC (Reserve Offict:r Training Corps) here, was commis­sioned and transferred to military in­telligence-and I worked a year for a Congressman in Wasbington, D.C., in 197';, Phil Hayes, who was elected in '74, and I managed his congressional campaign. I left Wash­ington and came back to Jasper in '76 and opened my law practice on my own; I kind of wanted to be my own boss. And I started suing people. I do a lot of environmental litigation; a lot of litigation against 
utilities; and generally a good deal of civil trial work. In '78 I decided to run for State Senate after having ~worn off politics. I found a lot ofthe legal problems I was dealing with were essentially political problems that had spilled over into zoning boards or the Environomental Protection Agency or courtrooms. In the legislature I've been heavily involved in environmental issues, nuclear energy, utility reform, (and) lobby reform. What I've tried to set up in Indiana are life-support cen­
ters for pregnant teenagers to give them positive alternatives to abor­tion: adoption, counseling services, parenting skills. 
Q: How do you )eel about the Equal Rights Amendment? 
A: I support the Equal Rights Amendment. Periodically bills are introduced to rescind our ratifica­tion of the Equal Right Amendment and I always fight rescindment. I think once the state's ratified it they ought to let it go and I do support the ERA. I didn't support the exten­tion of time (for ERA's passage) be­cause I think that's a mistake. 
Q: Is being a state senator a full-time position? 
A: In Indiana it's nominally a part­time: job. It rcally has bcen a full-time job plus another full-time job: law, for me. The legislature could casily become a full-time body in Indiana. The problem with legislation in In­diana is that it's very heavily dominated by spcdal-intercst groups and lobbyists and thert·'s an information gap as a rcsult . lfthcir in­terests coincide: with the public's, usually it's accidcntial. And, as a result, we'rl' dcpt·ndcnt upon them 
see Q&A, page 4 
United States  forum  in  La  Fortune.  
Kendall spoke last night to in­ companying story and  
terested Notre Dame students in a  (Photo byjohn Macor)  



Haig expresses outrage over Polish situation 
GENEVA, Switzerland (AP) ­Secretary ofState Alexander M. Haig Jr. said yesterday he will express to Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko "the outrage of the American people" over the military crackdown in Poland. 
The meeting Tuesday between the two ministers will be the first high-level U.S.-Soviet talks since martial law was declared in Poland on Dec. 13. 
Haig's plane arrived last night af. ter more than 6,000 peace demonstrators rallied at the United Nations office where the talks will take place. Some shouted, "Soviet peace threatens peace!" and others carried banners condemning "U.S. intervention in Central America." 
A tough face-off was expected be­tween Gromyko and Haig, who wants to focus the meeting on Poland and push discussions on the proposed strategic arms reduction talks into the background. Washing­ton has linked the arms talks to Soviet behavior over the Polish situation. 
The Soviets want to give top priority to the arms talks and have rejected the U.S. position of linkage to Poland. 
An official on Haig's plane said the secretary intends "to lay out directly (to Gromyko) our concerns about the situation in Poland and the im­pact it is having on the general state ofSoviet-American relations." 
Haig, the official said, fully ex­pects Gromyko to be inflexible, standing staunchly to the Soviet position that events in Poland are an internal matter to be dealt with sole­ly by the Polish people themselves." 
"Since Poland is a longtime affair, business as usual (with the Soviets) is not going to be usual for a long time to come," the official said. 
The Americans cut the long­scheduled meeting from two days to ~ne in what observers viewed as a show ofdispleasure over the alleged Soviet role in Poland martial law crackdown. 
Diplomatic observers said Haig wuld use Soviet interest in the arms limitation talks as a lever to wrest concessions on Poland from the Kremlin. 
The State Department has said 
Haig "full range of issues" in U.S.-Soviet relations. 
A soviet source said that Gromyko was likely to arrive Monday after­noon. That would give Haig a full day for other business, including an ex­pected meeting with Paul Nitze, chief American negotiator in the U.S.-Soviet talks in Geneva on reduc­ing nuclear missiles in Europe. 


Kendall criticizes Senate opponent 
By MEGAN BOYLE penditures as "a battle of my ad Kendall sees America's lack of a nological base of the armed forces. StaffReporter agency against Lugar's ad agency." coherent defense poli~y and energy Lugar's defense policy "will Kendall cited Lugar's votes against program as the real issues of the bankrupt our economy and Democratic candidate for the U.S. a social security minimum, the election. He believes coal is the in­
military." Kendall favored increased

Senate, Mike Kendall, addressed a Clean Air Act, cutoffs of Lybian oil terim energy source that will help 
pay and incentives for officer's, and 

group of Notre Dame students yes­imports, and special service the nation, and coal-rich Indiana as 
an expanded role for women in the

terday to generate interest not only programs as proofofhis insensitivity well. Kendall condemned his op­
military.

in his political campaign, but in the to the urgency of the nation's ponent Lugar for his votes to spend the political process as a whole. "My economic woes. "I tend to have an 40 billion dollars to replace the B-1 Kendall concluded his discussion campaign needs you. You're country apocalyptic view of where the bomber "an aircraft that will be ob­by introducing Notre Dame student needs you," Kendall emphasized. country is now. Our options in solete within three years of its con­Kathy Hedingcr and Tom Gruscinski "Those who care about nothing, do energy, the economy and foreign struction." A former intelligence nothing. This stands to be the first policy are closing. Still, I really officer in the army, Kendall favors a and St. Mary's student Mary Patrick generation in American history to believe that government can solve strong defense for national security, who will coordinate Kendall's cam­inherit a lower standard of living these problems." but not by increasing the tech-paign on campus. than their parents. That is why I am running against Richard Lugar for Militiamuseum the U.S. Senate." 
Kendall called his opponent Richard Lugar, "a carcerist in 
Sovietpolice polish image 
politics who has been campaigning 
By DAVID MINTHORN Handguns and knives confiscated police activities. Police actions
for the Vice-Presidency since he was 
Associated Press Writer in Soviet airport checks, a drug ad-against "counter-revolutionary"
elected mayor oflndianapolis." Ken· 
diet's syringe, fake icons, bogus cos-gangs in the 1920s, the expansion of
dall marked Lugar as a politician IVJOSCOW (AP) -Soviet police 
metics and counterfeit blue jean police powers in the 1930s and the
who speaks about the needs of the are polishing up their image at the 
labels are on display. struggle against German invaders in
unemployed in Indiana but whose country's first museum on law en­
A few crimes are recounted; the World War II arc major themes.
voting record demonstrates an in­forcement. 
hammer slings of 30 people by a The police role in the "red terror"
ability to find solutions to state The Central Militia Museum, 
Moscow coachman in the early after the Bolshevik takeover, Gulag
problems outside of the Reagan ad­which opened to the public last 
1930s and art thefts from the Krem-labor camps ofthe Stalin era, and the
ministration's economic plans. Ken­November, traces the history ofuni­
current crackdown on political dis­

dall stated that after David formed police from the Bolshevik 
MoNDAV ~ttl%.'%1N&:ltWH® ssidents go unmentioned.
Stockman's controversial "Atlantic Revolution to current times. 
u~~ 
Bulanov said the museum also

Magazine," interview, "the Washing­Crime detection, traffic control, 
serves to educate militia recruits. 

ton game plan proved to be no more fire fighting and rescue operations 
&%%ill-l&FOCUS
~· "They must know what happened
than an attempt to falsify figures to are the main duties oftoday's militia, 
in the pa'>t in order to avoid old

sell a program that changed daily along with the "rehabilitation" of 
mistakes he declared.

with political pressure." Said Ken­convicts in the Soviet penal system lin and Pushkin museums in the 
One newspaper clipping hints at

dall, "That's no game plan." they operate. " We want to ed­1920s. The crimes were solved by 
the widespread use ofconvict labor

Kendall, in a move to cut down on ucate the public to respect those the peoples' police -the militia. 
undcr Stalin, reporting 60,000

wasteful campaign spcnding, has who protect their lives. At the same The KGB secret police and its 
prisoners were paroled after helping

promised to limit his campaign ex­time, anyone who intends to break predecessors arc scarcely men­
penses to S7';0,000 with any excess the law will see that all crimes will tioned at the exhibit, which was set 
funds donated to charity, assuming be detected," Maj. Gen. Nikolai M. up by the Ministry ofInternal Affairs 
founder of the Soviet police ap­

Lugar will limit his camaign ex­Bulanov, the 66-ycar-old museum in a refurbished, 18th century fire 
paratus are prominently displayed ln 

the collection, along with portraits

Presently, Lugar plans to spend as The crime exhibit suggests that Documents, uniforms, pictures, 
ofhis mentors, Vladimir I. Lenin and

much as five million dollars in 1982 Soviet police have their hands full banners and other paraphernalia are 
JosefStalin.

to re-acquire his seat in the United battling law breakers, although displayed in glass showcases in a States Senate. Kendall sees such ex-crime statistics are not published. succession of rooms with murals on see FOCUS, page 4 

By The Observet· and The AssociatedPress 
Federal investigators recovered crucial data and voice recorders yesterday from a partially submerged World Airways DC-10, hoping to learn why the jumbo jet with 208 people aboard slid off an icy runway into Boston Harbor and broke open. The cockpit voice recorder and the flight data recorder, to be sent to a lab for analysis today, might reveal at what point .on the 10,081­foot runway the plane landed, what the crew said before landing, and "sounds such as switches being thrown, changes in engine noises and warning horns," said National Transportation Safety Board spokesman Robert Buckhorn. The flight data re­corder contains information about the plane's speed, direction, angle of flight, and where it landed, Buckhorn said. 
A 20-year-old Notre Dame student was arrested Saturday night for purchasingalcohol. Un­dercover police staking out Frank's Place liquors on 327 West Marion made the arrest at 7 p.m. After purchasing two cases of beer (without having to show any identification), the' student exited the store and was accosted by two South Bend detectives who demanded to know his age. After providing the police with a driver's license, the stu­dent was handcuffed and led to a marked South Bend police car and driven to the local precinct where he was booked with possession ofalcoholic beverages. Later, the1 student was taken to St. joseph County Jail. After being mugged and repeatedly fingerprinted, the student was released at 8:30 p.m. on $50 cash bond. Frank's liquors, which only recently received recertification (after having lost its license), will most probably face stern consequences according to reliable sources. The South Bend Police Department and Frank's Place Uquors were unavailable for comment. ­
Observer 

PresidentReaganhas decided toes­tablish a Cabinet council to coordinate legal and law enforcement policies that affect several departments, a White House spokesman said yes­terday. Although the decision comes after criticism of the administration for appearing to change signals on the Equal Rights Amendment and on tax exemptions for private schools that ra­cially discriminate, both White House and justice Department spokesmen said the idea had been un­der discussion before those issues arose. White House spokesman Mark Weinberg said Reagan had decided to formally announce soon that he will add a legal policy group to the five Cabinet coun­cils that were created last February. Weinberg said he did not know which Cabinet officers would be on the panel or who would chair it, but an ad­ministration source who asked not to be named said Attorney General William French Smith was likely to head the group. -AP 
Two leading conservative political ac­tivists said yesterday that President Reagan has failed to follow through on his 1980 campaign· promises, and blamed his advisers for leading him astray. "His rhetoric is hard, his desire is firm, his policies are weak," said Richard A. Viguerie, publis­her of the Conservative Digest. Appearing on ABC's "This Week With David Brinkley," Viguerie and Howard E. Phillips, director of the Con­servative Caucus, said the president should adopt a more hard-line attitude in pushing his programs. "As political friends of the president, we have a responsibility to him to point out that his ad­ministration is moving in a significantly different direction than that which he promised us when he campaigned," Viguerie said. "And I think as he's looking back now one year later, he's got<to be dis­appointed," he said. -AP 
Snow accumulations up to 2 
inches possible by today. Occasional snow continuing with some additional accumulations possible. Highs in the low to mid teens. Occasional flurries or light snow tonight ending by morning. Lows zero to 5 below. Mostly cloudy Tuesday highs in the mid teens. Chance for measurable snow: 70 percent today and tonight. -AP 

Reagan offers legal discrimination 
If most people were asked,"Why don't schools with racially discriminatory admission policies receive tax breaks?" they would probably answer "because it is the law." 
But is it? 
This week the Reagan administration has been under fire for reversing the standing practice ofthe Internal Revenue Service to deny tax exemptions to schools and colleges that discriminate against 
blacks. Reagan personally took the responsibility for the action. 
In an article which appears on the front page ol the January 20 Observer, Reagan stated that he "accepted responsibility for the administrative decision to grant tax-exempt status to private 
schools which racially discriminate." 
However, it is not until the twelfth paragraph (after nine paragraphs about the nation's un­employment problem and the situation in Poland) that the article details Reagan's basis for the deci­
sion. The President claims that he made the move be­
cause there was no basis in the law for the IRS ban. Furthermore, he stated "I am opposed with every fiber of my being to discrimina­tion." In support of 1 this statement Reagan has asked Congress to pass legislation which would formally out­law tax exemptions for dis­criminatory schools and 
colleges. 
This leaves me with a fel¥ important questions ..1s this the true reason for Reagan's decision? What if there are not enough votes in Congress to pass the needed legislation? Will any racially discriminatory schools receive tax-exempt status while the Congress and the courts decide the issue? And finally, How many important principles which most people think are made concrete in law are in 
actuallity legally undefined? 
As to the intent behind the Gipper's decision, it can be looked at from two standpoints. First, it can be said that the President is truly opposed to racial discrimination and wants a law which will prevent its occurence. On the other hand, many will main­tain that this is a mere loophole for Reagan to allow for the exemptions and still save political face. 
In his article which appears in the January 21 New York Times Anthony Lewis states that "Presidents say a good many foolish things, and I have heard them for 30 years. But I do not think that I have heard anything more preposterous, lame, cynical or outrageous than what Ronald 
Reagan had to say about "the law" and racist schools. Lewis, in the article which is entitled "Shucks, It's Only the Law", disagrees with the claim that the 

IRS is holding back the status witho••t-le__:g;;..al_;,j_u_s-------------------------'1 
,_The_Qhs_eryer_ 
Design Editor ...................... Maura Murphy Design Assistants .................. Paul McGinn Typesetters ........................ Toni Rutherford News Assistant .............. Bob Vonderheide CopyEditors.........................)oe Musumeci 
t'auiMcGinn Features Layout .............. Paul Kosidowskl Sports Layout ................................... Earl Rix Typist....................................)ohn McCanhy ND Day Editor ......................... David Grote SMC Day Editor .................. Kathy Zuschin Ad Design....................)ohn & Tom & Fran Pbotograpber............................)ohn Macor Guest Appearances ................. Cole Poner 
several Hired Hands union organizers 


tification. His argument reads: 
A three judge Federal Court, in an opinion by a distinguished judge, decides an important ques­tion ofFederal law. The Supreme Court affirms the decision. Other courts follow it. The Federal Government incorporates it in rules, and three Presidents enforce them over a ten-year-period. Then a new President reverses the rules. He ex­plains to a press conference that he did so because they had "no basis in the law." 
From this account one would suspect that Reagan would be likely to pardon the man con­victed ofthe Atlanta child murders and start a peti­tion drive to have Martin Luther King's birthday removed from the calendar. 
just for the sake offairness and equal time (Many people feel the Observer is out to get Ronald Reagan and slants the news for thi~ purpose) let us presume that Reagan is sincere in hi~ statements and that no ac­tual law existspreventing ra­cial discrimination. If this true then Reagan will not be seen as the black hat villain in one of his western and looks like the Lone Ranger ol civil rights. 
If indeed, Reagan is sin­cere in his intentions, we are still not sure that the anti­discrimination legislation will become law. For ex­ample, the initial bill may 

not have enough votes to get through the Congress Oesse Helm and his collegeas will be a major roadblock) and if the bill is passed and signed by the President, there is no way ofknowing how the courts will interpret the new law. 
During this time, while our legislators decide the issue, schools and colleges which discriminate against minorities will be receiving tax-exempt status. If Reagan were truly concerned about the minorities ofthe U.S. he would have chosen a bet­ter method ofachieving his goal than announcing at a major press conference that the IRS is able to give tax breaks to these schools. 
It is also extremely upsetting to think that there never was a law on the books preventing the IRS from giving the tax-exempt status to institutions which discriminate. 
I wonder what other issues which are generally accepted as common knowledge fail to be ce­mented with an actual law. 

smc ORIENTATION '81 
APPLICATIONS ARE NOW 
BEING ACCEPTED FOR: Chairman Assistant Chairman 
Social Chairman 

Big Sister /Little Sister Off-CampusChairman 
ChairmanGeneral Committee Transfer ChairmanWorkers 

Applications are available in the Student Activities Office (166 Lemans Hall) Deadline for applications --Tues. Feb 2, 1982 tease sign up for an interview when you return your application.
---.-__..______ 



==IheDbset:Ver=-=-=-= 
Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of t~e University of Notre Dame du ~a~ an~ Saint ~ary's.Co~leg.e. It does not n~essanly reflect the policies of the admmtstration of etther mstltutwn. The news 1s report­ed as accurately and as objectively as possibl~-Edit?r!als represent the opinio1_1 of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentanes, opmwns and letters are th.e VIews of their authors_ Column space is available to all members of the co.mmumty, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, throU&h letters, 1s encour11.ged. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editorial Board 
f:'dit(Jr-in-Chief. ............................ .John McGrath Ew>r'tilille Neu•s Editor.................... ... Kdli Flint Sports E<litor ......... .. ......... Skip Desjardin Nell'S EdilfJr............................. Da\'1<.1 Kickabaugh Pboto Editor........................................)ohn Macor S.HC Execufil'e Editor... .......\1ary Agnes Care~ Editorials Editor.......................Anthony Walton SJ!C .'Veu•s Editor......................Cathy Domanico Features Editor ......................... Grq~ory Swiercz 
Department Managers 
Business ,Hanager ........................Rich Coppola Production i14anager ................... Michael Monk Controller....................... . ............. joe Mulflur Circulation .!Janager .............Tom Macl.ennan Adt,ertising Manager.......................Chris Owen S)•stems Manager ........................... Bruce Oakley 


The Observer Monday, January 25, 1982 -page 3 
Den1ocrats vow no easy win for Reagan 
WASHINGTON ( AP) Congress be:gins its 1982 election-year session with Republicans worrying aloud about the economy and Democrats vowing that President Reagan will not triumph as easily or as often as he did a year ago. 
The president will outline his program in a State of the Union Address before a joint session of the House and Senate tomorrow night, both houses returning from a six· 
week recess. 
And Republicans and Democrats alike say Congress will begin with the economy on its mind. 
"We have to revive the drums. We're developing constructive al­ternatives," said a House Democrat. And Senator Peter Demenici, D· N.M., chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, sald that a bipartisan ap­proat·h may be needed to resolve the budget problems. 
Although the economy will be in the forefront, Senate Majority Leader Howard H. Baker Jr., said he will try to schedule debate early in the session on the "so-called emo­tional issues" like abonion, busing and prayer in public schools. 
"These are national issues and 
must be: debated," said Baker, noting 
that In 1981 he asked the Senate to 
postpone work on social matters so 
the chamber could consider 
economic issues. 
Among Republicans, the euphoria 
of last year has been replaced by a 
concern about a combination of recession, rising unemployment and high budget deficits. 
"Triple digit deficits in fiscal years 1983 and 1984 are just not accept· able economically," Sen. Bob Dole, R·Kan.. chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, warned. 
With the exception of Rep. Jack Kemp, R-N.Y. virtually all the Republican hierarchy has urged the president to seek higher taxes to close the deficits. 
They also have warned him that seeking deeper cuts in the domestic programs' budgets would be a mistake. 
But Reagan reportedly has settled on 531 billion in spending cuts, more than half of that amount to come from what the president proposes. Republicans say it will set the agenda tor a year of a new 43S· member House and 33 new senators. 
Republicans are hoping an economic recovery predicted for spring or summer will improve their 47-member majority in the Senate and close the Democrats' 242-192 edge in the House. A Massachusetts Democrat says the Democrats will pick up at least 2. But even most Democrats concede they arc unlike· ly to win control of the Senate, where only 12 Republican terms expire. 


SMCBoarddiscusses upcotning elections 
By MARY MciNERNEY 
News.\'taff 
The Saint Mary's Board of Gover­nance met last night to discuss the February c:lections and the develop· ment of a Saint Mary's free univer­sity. 
• Elections Commissioner Mary Elizabeth Ott informed the Boartl of February election plans. Those in· tcrested in running for student government offices should attend a mandatory meeting on February 3 at 6:;i0 in the Student Government office. Platforms are due February 
12 at noon to Mary Elizabeth Ott. Campaigning will begin February 14 at II p.m. and will end February I 7 at II p.m. 
Studt·nt Body President Eileen Murphy addressed the board about the development ofa free university at Saint Mary's where faculty mem­hers would conduct brief seminars 
about subjects not typically offered 
in the curriculum. 

Murphy said, "We hope to en­courage faculty members in con­tributing their talents to free university courses. Hopefully, this will bring faculty and students closer together." Any faculty mem­bers interested in the free university 
should contact Eileen Murphy or Emmie Lopez, vice president on academic affairs. 
The board will also form a Tenure Re-evaluation Committee to ed· ucate students about the tenure process. Murphy said, "This Board would compare the Saint Mary's tenure process to those at Notre Dame and IUSB (Indiana University at South Bend)." 
Other issues discussed were the Hospis Charity plans, the upcoming newsletter, and a committee that will be observing student govern­ment structure. 


"Comeback"joe Montana and the San Franciscc 49ers. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
Student poll 

SMCoffers service to Hospice 
By KANDY POWELL 
News Staff 
Last November, St. Mary's student government conducted a poll to determine what the school charity would be for the 1981-82 school year. Hospice of St. Joseph County was the overwhelming choice. 
Anne Hulme, development com­missioner of St. Mary's student government was enthusiastic about the strong response received from the poll. She was encouraged be­cause not only did the students choose Hospice, but the faculty and stafl's choice also coincided with the students. 
Collections for Hospice will be held Monday through Thursday of this week. Students are encouraged to give what they can, be it volun­teer services or money. This dona­tion may be made at 1the Hospice 
How about 

information booth, which will be open !Oa.m. to 2 p.m. The booth twill be located in the LeMavs lobby January 2S through January 28. Donations may also be made to hall section leaders. All section leaders arc asked to work at collecting money from their sections. 
On Tuesday, January 26, at 7:30p.m. in Stapleton Lounge, LcMans Hall there will be a prcsenta· lion featuring the hospice director and Betsy Boyle. This is an excellent time to learn more about hospice and to ask any questions you might have. Betsy Boyle, last semestersstu· dent intern will tell about her ex­periences with hospice. A reception will follow the presentation. 
Hospice of St. Joseph County is a special program ofhome health care which provides physical, psycho­logical, social and spiritual support 
bringing us your ideas? 
The best education after college is 
being able to put your talent to work. 
To do this, you need an environment 
that is open to your ideas. One that 
can offer you challenge, responsibility 
and diversity. Scott Paper can do just 
that. 
Because of our size and diversity, we can offer capable people an environment in which to develop their potential. Talented college graduates will find career growth op­portunities in finance, marketing and marketing research, accounting, engineenng, research and development, management science and industrial relations. 
That's why you should learn more about Scott Paper, a multi-dimensional, Fortune 500 company. For over 100 years, we have been pro­ducing a variety of quality consumer and commer­cial paper products. 
We are a company open to ideas. How about bringing us yours? 
There is a lot more to Scott than just paper. 
for terminally ill persons and their families. Hospice, through it's team members -a nurse, social worker, pastoral counselor and volunteers -focuses on the period of time remaining, attempting to make it as meaningful as possible for the patient and their families. The area program is specifically limited to St. 
Joseph County residents and admis­sion is made without regard to age, disability, race, creed, or ability to pay. 
Hospice depends heavily on private donations. They receive no state aid. Many of St. Mary's faculty members, administration, and stu­dents are involved with hospice. Hospice has aided several families within the St. Mary's community. Any donations are an excellent reflection of concern for the South Bend area. 

CONTACT YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE FOR INFORMATION 





SCOTr 
SCOTT PAPER COMPANY 


An equal opportunity employer, MlF 
j , 

--------------------------------~----~---­
The Observer Monday, January 25, 1982 -page 4 

continuedfrompage 1 
for information. 
Q: What's frustrated you the most aboutpolitics? 
A: I guess I'm an impatient young man and what frustrates me the most is the inability to bring about change more rapidly in regard to a lot ofour institutions and a lot of our problems. I think that politicans themselves have brought that about. I think that's why fifty percent ofthe voters in this country don't vote: be­cause they feel the elections don't make any difference. You can't tell the difference between "A" and "B" because they wage advertising wars instead ofissue-oriented campaigns. 
Q: When did you get involved in politics? 
A: I guess I really got involved in politics when I was here at Notre Dame. In I968 I started organiling students for (Robert) Kennedy and in that era college students had a great deal ofimpact on politics. And I was in student government here. That was the one election I lost. I ran for Student Body President in I969 and I was very much an advocate for coeducation. That probably cost me the election. The student body then was very much opposed to it. I was probably five years ahead of my ~ time. 
Q: This year is the lOth year an­niversary ofwomen atNotre Dame. So you agree that it's a good

Oklahoma City Public School Superlntenden. change?
cafeteria kitchen of Star Elementary School .on Tom Payzant suroeys a water beater that hac. 
Tiesday. Background is what remains of tbt 

A: I think it's the best singlestood next to the tank that exploded in tb( cafeteria kitchen. ( APPhoto) change I can find on campus. The 
greatest joy I can have will be if Kelly 

YOU'LL BE IMPORTANT FROM THE DAY YOU ARRIVEI 
Three Great Reasons to Choose MEAD JOHNSON 
OPPORTUNITY 

If you are looking for a highly visible, growth oriented position that has meaning and importance, then 
consider the following career opportunities with MEAD JOHNSON &COMPANY. 

Research, Development and Quality Assurance Opportunities-undergraduate degrees in chem­
istry or biochemistry; graduate degrees in organic or analytical chemistry. 
Engineering Opportunities-degrees in chemical or mechanical engineering. 
Finance and Accounting Opportunities-degrees in accounting. 

Management Information Systems Opportunities-degrees in computer science or mathematics. 
Personnel Opportunities-MBA's with a personnel or human resources major. MEAD JOHNSON is looking for Graduates with above average academic credentials, demonstrated leader­ship ability, and excellent oral and written communication skills. These are challenging opportunities that allow you creative use of your skills in an environment of growth and advancement. These are careers with a future-your future! 

GROWTH LOCATION 
MEAD JOHNSON, a dynamic subsidiary of Bristol­MEAD JOHNSON is located in Evansville, Indiana, Myers, is a leader in pharmaceutical and nutritional a community of beautiful residential areas, out­products. Our uninterrupted growth is the direct result standing recreational opportunities, exceptional of our innovation. Our operating style encourages educational and cultural facilities, and more. Best personal creativity and contribution. We're successful of all, Evansville couples the advantages of south­and thoroughly professional. We have a strong heri­ern economy with the changing beauty of four­tage of accomplishments and a strong future. season living. · 
To investigate these reasons for joining MEAD JOHNSON is to discover a wealth of others: Excellent salaries, superb benefits including paid relocation, and real growth, both personal and professional. 
Discover MEAD JOHNSON! When it comes to your career no one can offer more! 
) 
CINCINNA WE WILL BE ON CAMPUS FEBRUARY 8. To schedule an interview, stop by .ST. LOUIS the Placement Bureau, Room 213, Administration Building. ~ 
If the interview schedule is full or you are unavailable to see us on the dates we EVANSVILLE-=-..,/,.-,:~ 
are on campus, have your resume forwarded to us by the placement office. ~ _1, 
an equal opportunity employer M/F/HN \0n:J\ 



Mea!UJjhimDTI..______ 
& COMPANY 
L-----------------------------------------------~---~-~ 
~--­

• • • Q&A 
(his 8-year-old daughter) decides to come back here. I know that I was probably the first guy to run on campus advocating coeducation. It was a very, very stifling atmosphere, very repressed atmosphere, both sexually and socially. And it resulted in a tremendous lag in the matura­tion of the men here. It (an aU-male Notre Dame) really slowed it down. 
Q: Do you think Saint Mary's ought to go co-ed? ­
A: If they want to, yes. I think a learning atmosphere that involves as many different aspects oflife as pos­sible and men dealing with women is one of the most fundamental aspects oflife. 
... Focus 
continuedfrom page 1 

There's even a shot of Soviet and 
American military policemen guard­
ing the gate at the 1945 Yalta Con­
ference in the Crimea attended by 
Stalin, British Prime Minister 
Winston Churchill and U.S. Presi­
dent Franklin D. Roosevelt. 

"Despite different ideologies, the 
alliance was a big factor in the vic­
tory. We_ can be proud ofthis," says a 
Soviet newspaper clipping. 

Some 200,000 selected Soviets 
visited the exhibit before it was 
opened to the public. Now, guided 
tours must be booked in advance. 
The Associated Press waited more 
than a month for permission to visit. 
A few topics are taboo. Bulanov 
declined to provide figures on the 
membership of the Soviet police 
forces or to give statistics on the 
Soviet crime rate. 

"We have less violent crime in the 
Soviet Union than in the West be­
cause we don't permit violence on 
television and in films," Bulanov 
asserted. 

He said violence and sex crimes in 
the Soviet Union have been traced to 
foreign films and pornographic 
magazines smuggled into the 
country. 

"Once there was a French film 
shown about a gangster who used a 
stocking mask when committing 
robberies," the general said. 
"Suddenly, in three different towns, Soviet boys started to commit rob­beries wearing stocking masks." 
Despite the risks of their job, Bulanov said policemen are paid about the same as average Soviet workers, I72 rubles ( 5246) a month. They enter the force be­tween ages 20 and 30 after complet­ing two years of military service. 
Escort 
•


servtce evaluated 

Notre Dame Student Government announced yesterday that from Jan. 24 to Feb. 4 the student escort service will be evaluated on its per­formance. 
The evaluation seeks to determine the viability and ef­fectiveness ofthe service. 
The service is available from the Memorial Library Lobby from I 0 to 
II:45 p.m., Sunday through Thursday. 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col· lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 


The Observer Monday, January 25, 1982 -page 5 
'An alternative' 


Burger advocates arbitration 
CHICAGO (AP) -Chief justice Warren E. Burger, claiming that state and federal courts cannot handle their current workload, said yester­day more non-criminal lawsuits should be taken to arbitration. 
"It is now clear that neither the federal nor the state court systems arc capable of handling all the bur­dens placed upon them," Burger said in a speech to the American Bar Association, which is holding its mid·year meeting here. 
"I do not suggest in any sense that arbitration can displace the courts. Rather, arbitration should be an al­ternative that will complement the judicial system," Burger said. 
lie predicted that an "avalanche" of disputes in the future will "make matters worse for everyone." 
Generally, individuals or com­
panies agreeing to arbitrate submit their non-criminal civil dispute to a panel or individual ar­bitrator for final resolution. This ap­proach can lc:ad to quicker results than traditional court lawsuits. 

Burger said divorce, child cus· tody, adoptions, personal injury, landlord and tenant cases, and the distribution of property left by the dead are "prime candidates" for either arbitration or administrative action similiar to that used in workmen's compensation cases. 
In his prepared speech, Burger said that to be "truly effective" ar­bitration should be "final and bin­ding," with no provision for further review or sanctions against those who prolong the dispute. 
Burger, who frequently has called attention to the problems in the growing number of lawsuits, sug­gc~tcd last Oecembcr in his year-end report on the judiciary that arbitra­tion could be used to hclp curb "expanding contentious litigation." 
Yesterday's more specific remarks about arbitration came almost a year after Burger, in another speech to the ABA, called for curbs on repeat appeals filed by criminals searching for a way to set aside their convic­tions. 
Burger, who as chief justice heads the federal court system, noted as an example that from 1940 to 1981, the number of cases filed in federal dis­trict courts jumped from 35,000 to 
180,000 annually. 

Burger also called for an increased usc of mediation and conciliation in settling disputes out of court, ad­ding, "Ofall the skills needed for the practicing lawyer, skill in negotia­tion must rank very high." 
Social concerns 

Film series offers discussion format 

Sheriffs deputies escort Wayne Williams(right) from Fulton County Courthouse in Atlanta at the end ofThursday's session. Wil-

By TOM SHAUGNESSEY 
StaffReporter 
The Social Concerns Film Series 
returns this semester, "raising issues 
for the students, faculty and ad· 
ministrators," according to Mary 
Ann Roemer. adviser to the Social 
Concerns Film Task Force. 
The film series is experimenting 
with a modified format this year, 
featuring discussions and refresh­
ments after the two documentary 
films. The discussions will offer the 
audience an opportunity to express 
their views on the film topics, said 
Mrs. Roemer. 

Another modification is the placing of the series' two documen­taries in "prime time." In previous years, the documentaries were shown in LaFortune's Little Theater at lunchtime. Mrs. Roemer expressed the hope that these two changes would increase interest in the Social Concerns program. 
This year's Social Concerns Film Series presentations are: 
q:JN ij King ofHearts" (Jan. 26 & 27 -7 & 9:30 p.m., Engineering Auditorium, Admission -Free) The insanity of war is the theme of this subtle anti-war satire. It places the inmates of an insane asylum in con-

Pollshou;s U.S. 
•


supports sancttons 
NEW YORK ( AP) -A majority of Americans do not think Western Europe is doing enough to support 
U.S. economic sanctions imposed against the Soviet Union after martial law was declared in Poland. 
The latest Associated Press-NBC news poll also said that 7 of I 0 Americans believe the Soviet Union has had "a great deal ofinfluence" in declaring and enforcing martial law in Poland, and a plurality believes the U.S. sanctions against the Soviet Union have not been strong enough. 
The nationwide telephone poll of 
I.597 adults was conducted jan. 18­19 according to a scientific random sampling. 
Seventy-two percent said the United States' allies in Western Europe are not doing enough to sup­port the American sanctions, while I 5 percent said they are doing enough and 13 percent were not 
sure. 
Forty-nine percent said the economic sanctions the United States has imposed on the Soviet Union because of the events in Poland have not been strong enough. Forty-one percent said those sanctions have been about right and 10 percent said they have been too strong. 

After martial law was declared in Poland on Dec. 13, ~"resident Reagan announced economic sanctions against both Poland and the Soviet Union. 
T .he sanctions against Poland in­clude suspension of government financial credit for food purchases and cancellation of Polish fishing rights in American waters. 
The sanctions against the Soviet Union include reduced trade, the suspension of the planned sale of 
U.S. high technology equipment and denial of U.S. landing rights for the Soviet airline. 
The other NATO nations in Wes­tern Europe, especially West Ger­many, expressed initial reluctance to go along with the sanctions, but subsequently agreed to consider sanctions. 
At his news conference last week, Reagan said his sanctions have had an impact on the Soviet Union, and without mentioning specifics agreed that further steps might be taken. 
trot ot a small town during World 
War II. "The King of Hearts" con­
trasts the attitudes ofthe "sane" with 
those of the inmates, leaving the 
members of the audience to draw 
their own conclusions. 

"True Confessions" (Jan. 28 & 29 
-7,9, & I I p.m., Eng. Aud., Adm. ­
SI ) The Social Concerns Film Task 
Force collaborated with the Student 
Union on this movie presentation. 
The film, starring Robert DeNiro and 
Robert Duvall, is a study ofintegrity as two brothers, one a promising young priest and the other a police detective, deal with the problems of their vocations. 
"Excuse Me America" (Jan. 28, 
7:30 p.m., LaFortune Ball-room, Adm. -Free) In this movie, the Archbishbp of Recife, Brazil, Dom Helder Camera, gives his own ac­count of his life's work -relieving the oppressed in Latin America Im­mediately following "Excuse Me America," there will be a discussion led by· Assistant Dean Kathleen Weigert of the College of Arts and Letters. 
"Hiroshima" (Jan. 28, 7:30 p.m., Lafortune Ballroom, Adm. -Free.) Unlike the other presentations, "Hiroshima" is a slide show, composed almost entirely of the drawings ofsome ofthe survivors of the atomic holocaust. After the slide show, Associate Professor of Government john Roos will lead a discussion on the nuclear bomb threat. 
"Dr. Strangelove: Or How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb" (Feb. 1, 3, 4, & 5-7 & 9:30p.m., Eng. Aud., Adm. -S.50) "Dr. Strangelove," starring Peter Sel­lers, is a satire of the age of nuclear arms -a theme which is, perhaps, more relevant today than when this movie was made. 
The Social Concerns Film Series is entering its fifth year. It began in 1978 with the film "Harlan County, U.S.A." which brought attention to the plight of coal miners in this country. 



Lateet-~tttuieJut-Jan WW!UJrwpluj 
FoJt iKbo.. caU: AKgeUa AUyK Admtt.MK (1669) Cee«t K!LtKe'li ( 2 8 4 2) 
obi~enesis 

-d----.d Olnc.ll. 
--;z .Jj',£1 ry:.e: :D:.al:.alJ.'J ')Y.U:J~:JJ."J .,a :.91 ..U:U :1~ ~ 

The New 1982 

KEENAN REVUE 
8:00pm Fri. Jan. 29th and Sat. Jan. 30th 

BEGINNER OR ADVANCED Cost IS about the same as a semester 1n a U.S. college $2.989 Price includes Jet round trrp to Seville from New York, room. board, and tuitiOn complete Government yrants and loans available for eligible students 
L1ve w1th a Span1sh fam1ly, attend classes four hours a day, four days a week, four months. Earn 16 hrs. of credit lequi valent to 4 seme,ters taught 1n U.S colleges over a two 
year t1me span!. Your Spanish stud1es w1ll be enhanced by opportun1t1es not available in a U.S. classroom. Standard· 11ed tests show our students" language skills superior to students completing two year programs in U S. 
Hurry, it takes a lot of time to make all arrangements. FALL SEMESTER -SEPT. lO·Dec. 22"SPRING SEMESTER · Feb. 1 · June 1 each year. FULLY ACCREDITED·A program of Trinity Christian College. 



SEMESTER IN SPAIN 
2442 E. Collier S.E. Grand Rapids, Michigan 49506 (A Program of Trinity Christian College) 
C A L L T 0 L L F R E E for full information 1-800-253-9008 
(In Mich., or if toll free line inoperative call 1-616-942-2903 or 942-2541 collect) 

......s"0 WCfi~,SiiiiiiiiiiEiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiMondaiiiiiiy, 1982 page6
Janiiiiiiuary25, ­

Confessions of a 'different drummer' 
"Bless me, Father, for I have sinned. It has been ......(mumble, mumble) weeks since my last con­fession." 
"What is it that you would like to confess, my child?" "This is very difficult for me to 

Staff Writer 
"RelaX, my child. Take yourtime." 
"All right, Father. All my life, espe­cially since I have been in college, I have carried a great burden inside of me. There have been many times when I felt like a section ofa navel seedless orange that was separated from the others just because I had a seed in me. I was fundamentally not like the othersections ...er, people." 
"This sounds serious. Continue." 
"When I was a little girl, everyone 
else would pretend that they were Cinderella or their big sisters. I would curl my hair and dye itorange with poster paints and make believe'' that I was Queen Elizabeth I, sending her cousin to the executioner or breaking the heart ofsome cour­tier." 
"Did this phase pass when you reached adolescence?" 
"Actually, it became more sophis­ticated. I realized that poster paints weren't good for my hair and that food coloring tended to be tem­porarily permanent. About that time, I discovered make-up and clothes." 
"That seems normal enough." 
"I thought so, too, until I suddenly realized that when I walked down the street, men weren't fixing their gaze on my jelly bean green eyes but on my feet!" 
"Your feet, you say?" 
"And on my legs." 

"There are some people who find legs rather ......" 
"I understand that. I would have understood it then if it hadn't been for the fact that they would stop where they were, stare and then break out in the giggles. I began to feel like a Shakespearean pun that had gone astray only to be saved by the inanity of the visual character." 
"So far, I don't see any reason to be making a confession to me." 
"Father, I remember in my catec­hism class that when you sinned, you sinned against God and other people. God's cool. I've got no problems with God. It's the other people that is the problem. You know what? I think that I have sinned against all ofhumanity." 
Saint Mary's galleries host new exhibits 
T
wo new exhibits wiJl open Friday, January 29 in the galleries at Saint Mary's College. Paintings by Marilyn Bock-Tobolski will be on display in Hammes Gallery and the third annual Hicks Etchprint National Invitational Ex­hibit will be held in Moreau Gallery. An opening reception for the artists will be heldJanuary 29, 7-9 p.m.; the public is invited to attend. 
Marilyn Bock-Tobolski's exhibit in Hammes Gallery wiJl include · more than 25 paintings. Ofspecial interest are two ofTobolski's larger works, which will be suspended from the ceiling, as well as five canvases which will be accom­panied by the poems ofConnie Haas-Zuber, a journalist for theNews Sentinel. Tobolski will discuss her work on Saturday,january 30, at 11 
a.m. in Moreau Hall, room 232. The talk is open to the public. 
A faculty member ofthe fine arts department at Indiana University­Purdue University at Ft. Wanye, Tobolski has displayed her works in numerousshows. Her recent exhibi­tions include "Spiritual versity art professors. Prints and 
Perspectives" at the Presbyterian 
Gallery in Ft. Wayne, "Creative Col­laborations" at Anderson College, "Exhibition '81" at the Ft. Wayne 
Museum and "Indiana Contem­porary Artists" at the Indiana State 
Museum, Indianapolis. 

Currently an artist panel member for the Artlink Art Space in Ft. Wayne, Tobolski holds a B.S. from Indiana University, Bloomington as well as a M.S. in fine arts from St. Francis College, Ft. Wayne. 
The third annual Hicks Etchprint National Invitational Exhibit is a group show of30 artists which was organized by Leon Hicks, professor ofprintmaking at Webster College, St. Louis, Mo. Included in the exhibit will be prints, drawings, photographs, mixed media and paper works. 
Hicks, who is founder ofthe 
Philadelphia-based Hicks Etchprint, 
Inc., exhibits his own art works 
throughout the country and has 
received numerous awards. Many of 
the artists who are displaying work 
in this exhibit are college and uni-drawings by Carol Ann Carter, who is assistant professor ofart at Saint Mary's, wiJ1 also be included in the exhibit. Carterrecently received the first place award at the second an­nual Women's Caucus for Art com­petitions at the Midwest Museum of Art in Elkart. 
Hicks, who t is interested in promoting young and innovative ar­tists from the mid-western and east­em United States, re-invests profit made from Etchprint, Inc. into numerous national traveling ex­hibits. 
The two new exhibits at Saint Mary's wiJ1 be on display through February 24. Gallery hours are 9:30 
a.m. to noon and 1 to 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. The gallery is closed Saturday. Sunday hours are 1 to 3 p.m. 
"Don't you think that is a rather strong thing to say?" "I committed the ultimate in sins. I dared to be unique." "This is more serious than I thought." 
"You remember when designer jeans were in? My body to this day has ~ever been acquainted with autographed thread. They weren't me. Punk rock came into style and I got heavy into Beethoven. When people were popping vitamin piJls and enduring shin splints, I took up junk food and Victorian novels. The worst was when preppy became the Fad. I had a massive bonfire in my 
garage. Every item ofclothing that 
even came close to looking preppy 
burned until all that remained were 
cinders and smoke." 

"This is a grievous sin. Have you any idea how to atone for this?" 


"I was thinking ofhopping the Columbia in March and parachuting to Mars but I decided against it. Ithas probably already been done." 
"How about this? I want you to gradually accustom yourselfto cur­rent clothing and music. Browse through the department stores and buy a few piecesofclothing that you personally like. Then try sitting for a few minutes each day and listening to Bruce Springsteen. Build up a resistance. Before you know it, you'll be like everyone else." 
"Oh, thank you, Father." 

"You're welcome. By the way, 
why do you wear ribbons on your 
boots?" 
"To be unique." 

"Kneel down. 'Bless me, Father ...' " 


Students may register with the week in the dining halls. (Sketch World Hunger Coalition for this byfeb Cashin) semester's Wednesday fast this 
Winter weather not all bad 
T
here's something perverse in my nature that 
tends to make me like bad weather. I notice 
that when I hear there's a storm coming I look for­
ward to it. 

It has to be a special kind ofbad weather. I don't like long periods ofintense heat or weeks of drought, but a really terrible rainstorm or a heavy snow warms my heart. Ifit weren't for the constant reminders that some people suffer during a storm, I'd like to see us have a 14-inch snow fall about 
once a month all year Ion~ 
Andy Rooney 
For one thing, any kind ofstorm is disruptive to our normal routines and there's nothing most ofus need more than to be forced to abandon our tiresome little ways ofdoing the same things the same way every day. I am, for example, at the mo­ment ofwriting, sitting in my office, in corduroy pants, a warm wool shirt, and good leather boots. I am very comfortable but I wouldn't dream ofcom­ingto work thiswayifi hadn't had to shovel out my driveway this morning before I could get the car out. 
Not only am I dressed more for outdoors than for indoors but I am unshowered an unshaved. I had planned to go back into the house after shovelling the driveway and get myselfproperly groomed for office work, but it was so late when I finished that I did not. So, here I am and I feel great. Iwould never have felt this good ifwe hadn't had a snowstorm last night. 
When I parked at the railroad station from which I take a train into town, someone else was trying to get his ar out ofa parking place next to mine. It had 
been blocked by that wave ofsnow that the plow 
leaves on the side ofthe road and the driver was 
frantically spinning his wheels and rocking his car 
trying to get it out. He wasn't going to make it. 
I motioned to him to stopfor a minute and it was apparent he wasn't sure what I had in mind. I took a shovel out ofthe back of my car, hastily reduces the pile in front ofhis wheels and stood back as I in­dicated to him that he could give it atoher try. The wheels spun but he inched his way out of the trap and, not daring to stop, wave a grateful thank-you to me as he drove off. 
"What a wonderful person I really am," I thought to myself. For that instant all my self-doubts were gone. The shortcomings ofcharacter and intellect, ofwhich I'm so often aware, were deep below my level ofconsciousness. The whole world was just great for that moment. I'd helped a stranger for no selfish reason except the pleasure unselfishness gave me. I owed my euphoria to the snow storm. 
Last week I watched television pictures ofthe af­termath ofthe deluge north ofSan Francisco. The anchorman in New York was talking in a live inter­view with the correspondent on the scene. 
"Is it true that extra police have been moved in­to the area to prevent the large-scale looting that's going on?" he asked. 
"Well, yes, they have moved extra police in here," the correspondent in California said, "and there has been looting, but frankly, I've been more impressed wth the help people have been giving each other. I've seen people come into this area with tools and heavy equipment just Ito help the people in trouble. They'll he!p someone else wthout even asking any one's name. It's just been great the way everyone has pitched in." 
I was pleased to hear the reporter turn the 
anchorman's negative question into a positive 
answer. Bad weather brings out the best in us 
sometimes. 
Recent paintings by Marilyn Bock-Tobolski will be on display beginning january 29 at tbe Hammes and Little Theatre Galleries atSaint Mary's College. 


Sports Brie/§ 
Monday, January 25, 1982 -page 7 
By The ()IJsen•er and Tbe Associated Press 
Lacrosse practice begins today at 
5:30. Attendance is mandatory for all team mem· bers. For details, call Rich O'Leary at 239·51 08. -
Tbe Obseroer 

Irish and SMC Fencers com­
peted in a triangular meet at Tri-State College in Angola Indiana this weekend. The Irish men beat Wisconsin-Parkside 23-4, the women's foil team beat them 12-4, and SMC beat them 11-5. The men beat Tri-State 19-8, the Irish women's foil beat them 12·4 and SMC won 12-4 also. Jim Thomson, Marc DeJong, and Jamie Colley-capo were all 3·0 on the weekend and are undeafeated this season The Notre Dame women are 3·1 on the season. The men are 4-0 and carry a five-match winning streak into Firday's meet agaist Clemson and Purdue, which will be there biggest test of the year. -tbe Obseroer 
People who signed up for the Student Uni­on ski trip must attend a meeting tonight in the room off of LaFonune ballroom at 6:45 p.m. Anyone not there must abide by the decisions of the group. -Tbe Obseroer 
Interhall volleyball signups for 
men and women ·end today. Team members must 
be from the same hall to participate in the elimina­
tion. -Tbe Obseroer 

A hole-in-one was scored by Lanny Wadkins en route to a third-round 633 in the rain­delayed Phoenix Open Golf Tournament. He is 15 under-par after three rounds on the 6,726 yard Phoenix Country Club course. Wadkins holds a four-shot lead going ink> the fin a lrount .,.... AP 
Indiana deafeated Purdue 77-55 at homt 
on Saturday. Indiana featured balanced scoring; N jm Kitchell and Jim Thomas both scored 18 points, Randy Williams added 16, Steve Bouchie had 10, and freshman Dan Dakich contributed 8.­
AP 


Frkllly'e Game 
NoiN Deme II, Bowling o .... n 8 

Bowling Green 4 1 3 o-8 
Notre Dame 4 2 2 1-8 
FIRST PERIOD -Scoring -1, BG, Hills. 21, 
(McPhee. Mills), 1:09. 2, BG, P. Wilson. 14, 
(McPhee), 5:57. 3, BG. Hills, 22, (P. Wilson, Galley), 
6:19. 4, NO. Poulin, 18. (Schmidt, Logan), 9:14. 5, NO. Bellomy. 4, (Regan. Brown). 10:11. 6, NO, Schmidt, 5, (Poulin, Bowie), 11:02. 7, NO, Deasey, 5 (Higgins, Regan), 12:25.8. BG, Hills, 23, (P. Wilson) 
19:27. ....,.lttee-BG, Collins, (minor. cross check in) 9:23. BG. Kane, (minor, roughing) 10:40. BG Kane, (minor, roughing) 10:40. NO, Collard. (minor, 
roughing) 10:40. BG, McPhee, (monor, trippong) 
10:49. NO, Bowoe, (minor, slasshing) 19:46. SECOND PERIOD-Scorlng-9, BG, McPhee, 
(P. Wilson, Hills). :57. 10, NO, Btork, 14, (Bellomy, Regan), 9:24 11, NO , Higgins, 5, (Chapman, Bonadio), 10:55. Penlllttee-BG, K. Collins, (minor, checking from) 6:51. NO, Schmidt, (minor, inter­ference ) 12:36. BG, O'Broan. (minor, trippong) 18:38. 
THIRD PERIOD-Scoring -12, NO, Chapman, 9, (unassisted), 9:21. 13, BG, P. Wilson, 15, (McPhee, Hills), 11:06. 14, BG, Kane, 8, (McPhee), 
17:24. 15, NO, Poulon, 19, (Bowie), 19:02. 16, BG, O'Brian, (P. Wilson, McPhee), 19:23. Penelttee­BG, Galley, (minor, trippong) 11:23. 
OVERTIME -Scoring -17, NO, Chapman, 10, (Deasey, Brown), 3:50 . ....,.lttee-
Shote on goel: BowlongGreen 15 10 13 2-40 NotreDame 16 14 14 Q-4 
Ooeltenctere -Bowling Green. David. Notre Dame. Laurion. A-3,692 
Setun:tey'e O.me 
Bowling o .... n 8, Notre Deme 7 

BowhngGreen 1 5 1 1-8 
Notre Dame t 3 3 o-8 
FIRST PERIOD-Scoring-t8, NO, Lucoa. 2, 
(Brown, Doman), 2:32. 19, BG, Maclellan, 7, (P. Wil­
son. Hills), 7:31. Penelttee -NO, Regan, (minor, 
holding) 6:12. BG, Guertin, (minor, slashing) t t :02. 
SECOND PERIOD -Scoring-20, BG, P. Wil­
son. 16, (Mills, McPhee), 1 :10. 21, NO, Poulin, 20, 
(unassisted), 2:29. 22, BG. O'Brian. 9. (Braun, Kane), 
4:22. 23, NO, Doman, 3, (Lucia, Collard ), 4:53. 24, NO, Rothsteon, t 7, (Logan, Poulin), 5:33. 25, BG, K. Collins, unassosted, (unassisted), 7:59. 26. BG, Maclellan, 8, (unassosted), 14:03. 27, BG, Hills, 24, (McPhee, Maclellan), 19:10. Penelttee -NO, Chapman. (monor, slashong) 2:17. BG, Hills, (minor, tripping) 5:37. BG, McPhee, (minor, holding) 9:57. BG, O'Brian, (minor, roughing) 15:34. NO, Schmodt, (minor, roughing) 15:34. BG, W. Wilson, (minor, hold· lng) 17:46. NO, Poulin, (minor. tripping) 19:34. 
THIRD PERIOD-Scoring -28, BG, W. Wilson, 
1, (Kane), 1:35. 29, NO, Poulin, 21, (Rothsteon), 2:33. 
30, NO, Poulin, 22, (Schmidt, Bowie), 7:3t. 3t, NO, 
Schmodt, 6, (Poulin, Bowoe), 16:34. Penelttee-BG, 
Kane, (minor, elbowing) 2:00. NO, BJork, (minor, trip­
ping) 3:30. NO, Higgins, (minor. roughing) 7:t 2. BG, 
Galley, (minor, holding) 7:12. BG, Mills, (minor, delay 
olgame) 7:12. NO, Bowie, (minor, interference) 8:12. 
BG, Maclellan, (minor, hogh sticking) 9:25. BG, 
Regan. (minor. holdong) 13:33. BG, Mills. (minor, 
hooking) t 5:45. 

OVERTIME-&coring-32, BG, P. Wilson, 17, 
(McPhee, Maclellan), :39. Penelttee-
Shote on goet: 

Bowling Green 8 13 6 2-29 
NotreDame t3 17 18 o-48 
Ooeltendere -Bowling Green, David. Notre Dame. Laurion. A-2,403 
-----,~------­
• •' • 'i '~*'~? ..,., :_ :iiI ; •' /o' • • 
1/23/82's Results Notre Dame 55, Maryland 51 Maryland (51) 

M FG-A  FT-A  R  F  P  
Branch  34  6-12  4-7  8  4  16  
Veal  32  1-4  0·2  3  4  2  
Pittman  39  6-1 0  3-9  11  2  1 5  
Adkins  38  5-8  2·2  1  4  12  
Morley  29  3-6  0-0  2  5  6  
Rivers  5  0-1  0-0  0  0  0  
Jackson  7  0-2  0-0  1  2  0  
Holbert  9  0·0  0·0  1  0  0  

Baldwin 70-00-0020 
200 21-43 9-20 27 23 51 
FG Pet. .488. FT Pet. .450. Team rebounds-2. Turnovers-15. Assists-13, Ad­kins 5. Morley 5. Technicals-Branch 1. 
Notre Dame (55) 

M FG-A FT-A R F P Varner 39 5-7 1-2 4 4 11 Spencer 34 3-8 1-2 7 3 7 Andree 33 3-8 3-4 3 5 9 Mitchell 19 0-2 3-4 1 0 3 Paxson 40 4-7 1-2 2 3 9 Rowan 23 5-6 4-7 3 1 14 Rucker 12 1-3 0·0 1 1 2 200 21-41 13-21 21 17 55 
FG Pet. .512. FT Pet. .619. Team rebounds· 5. Turnovers-11. Assists· 9, Pax­son 3, Varner 2, Andree 2. Technicals-None. 
Halftime-Maryland 21, Notre Dame 23. Of· ficials-Gary Muncie-Big Ten,, Phil Bova­Big Ten, Lou Moser-ACC. A· 11 ,345(c). 
1/24/82's Results Notre Dame 71, Michigan 48 Michigan (48) 

M FG-A FT-A R F p Dietz 35 5·16 0-0 5 2 10 Harte 30 6-19 0·1 3 4 12 Donovan 13 0·2 0-0 0 2 0 Harte, K. D. 25 5-10 0-0 2 1 10 
Gnatkowski 33 2-7 0·0 0 0 4 Doutt 19 2-8 0·0 1 2 4 Baumgart 3 0·0 0·0 0 0 0 Soullier 24 2·3 0-0 3 3 4 Dietz 3 1-1 0-0 0 0 2 Wiley 12 0-2 0·0 3 1 0 Sobkow 3 1-1 0-0 1 0 2 40045­
112 9-21 45 38 99 FG Pet. .402. FT Pet. .429. Team rebounds • 5. Turnovers -23. Assists · 1, Diane Dietz 1. Technicals ·none. Notre Dame (71) 
M FG-A FT-A R F P Kaiser 32 5-7 0-0 9 1 1 0 Matvey 29 7-11 1-2 2 0 15 Schueth 25 4·9 2-4 12 2 10 Mullins 14 2·4 0-0 1 4 Hensley 19 0-0 0-0 3 1 0 Monagle 2 0·0 0·0 o.o 0 Neville 25 3-6 0-0 2 0 6 Conboy 3 0-0 0-0000 Dougherty 20 0·2 2·2 1 2 Klauke 4 0·0 1·2 2 1 Bates 27 10·16 3-4 9 23 400 52-96 22·35 62 25 126 
FG Pet. .542. FT Pet. .629. Team rebounds · 5. Turnovers -26. Assists -18, Doughe11y 6, Kaiser 5, Schueth 3. 
• • .leers 
continuedfrom page 12 

"All the credit should go to John (Deasey)," offered Chapman after-"' wards. "He made the play with that pass and I just took It ln." 
It was a great finish to a game that started out terribly. Bowling Green jumped all over the Irish in the first seven minutes, and racked up three goals in that time period. The Irish, however, retaliated In a spectacular flurry that saw Poulin, Rex Bellomy, Schmidt, and Deasey score within the next six minutes. 
League leading scorer Brian Hills recorded his 23rd goal ofthe season at the 19:23 mark to leave the teams back where they had started for the second period ofplay. ... 
Kin Bjork's rebound goal answered an earlier tally by McPhee, and a minute and a half later, John Higgins took a nice pass from Chap­man and gave the Irish the lead. 
The third period featured a last minute goal for each team, as Poulin tipped in a Joe Bowie shot with just :58 seconds left in the game to give Notre Dame an 8-7 lead. However, Bowling Green came up with a great effon with their goalie pulled and scored just 20 seconds later to send the game Into the extra session. 
Chapman's heroics ended one of the best games seen at the ACC In a long time, and it substantiated the view by many league officials that the Irish are a team to be reckoned with as the playolfs approach. The team displayed a great winning at· titude throughout the series, and they may very well have reason to do su in upcoming weeks If their im· proved play continues. 

All clc~s~•ltPrl a<1s must be recetved by 4 45 p.m. two days pnor to the 1 S~ue m whtch the ad ts run The Observer ofttce wdl accept classtfteds MonrlCJV through Fr~C!rty. 1O·OO am 10 5:00pm. All classrfreds must be



Classifieds 
pre-p.ttd, etlher 111 person or through the mall 

LOST: t paor women's brown leather WANTED FEMALE VOCALISTS & Need many Marquette tox call ED at 1 068 Ohhhhhhhhhhhhhhh. Senoor Bar on a Macor and Musumeco are loghtweoghts gloves, probably left on 203 O'Shag FLUTISTS FOR DILLON HALL'S SUN­Thursday Noght. Lunatocs. Neurotocs, when II comes to beong ugly We have the 
NOTICES 

Please call Notre Dame 7848 or 7850 if DAY MASS. FOR MORE INFO CALL NEED 2 GEN. OR STUD. TIX FOR MAR­Ducks, Crazed Moose. Windows woth real UMOC candodate MIKE you hnd them. DAN AT 1697. QUETIE GAME. CALL MATI, 1478 screens, Conoving Grapelruots, S1ngle G­VIRACOLA.Even Webster agrees,look 

men, Macor (enough on otsell) robs, chock­up ugly on the dlctoonary,and there os a Macer and Musumeci are hghtwe1ghts LOST: Paor ot brown plastoc-rommed Babysitter Wanted: occasoonal weekend HELP! I NEED MARQUETIE BASKET­en. a stolen glass. saboteurs by my car, pocture of MIKE VIRACOLA next to II.Four when II comes to beong ugly We have the glasses w1th brown case· case has noghts. Call Pat, 288-0473. BALL TICKETS. CALL STEVE AT 8729. a contused Racin1an. severe out of ftve piastre surgeors who have 
real UMOC candodate MIKE 1nfl1cted sh1nal pam, warm brew with
broken pocket clop. II tound, please brong seen MIKE VIRACOLA prefer MIKE 
to lost and lound on Admon or call t 229. 
VIRACOLA. Even Webster agrees. when NEED Marquette tox Louos 3160 Clark, Excuse Me SIX times. My, my, my VIRACOLA as the chooce lor you look up ugly on the doctoonary, you woll The t1me has come for me to devote UMOC.Make the logocal chooce. make the see a pocture of MIKE VIRACOLA next to myself to socoal concerns. Get off my loot! only chooce.MIKE VIRACOLA.THE MIS·

FOUND: One caculator, on the library the detonotoon Four out of hve plastoc sur­Thursday noght. Call Dan at 3378 to oden­FOR SALE -Uncle Ryan SING LINK. geons who have seen MIKE VIRACOLA. ......... ..... . .. ..........
toly. 


prefer MIKE VIRACOLA as the chooce lor DIANE, SMOKING IS BAD FOR Attentoon all John Macor UMOC suppor· UMOC Make the logical chooce, make the FOUND: FOREIGN COIN ON ROAD BE­FOR SALE Two studded snow !ores. Woll PERSONALS YOUIIISTOPIIISTOP, BEFORE IT ters: features are such that 1can not won onlychooce. MIKE VIRACOLA, THE MIS­ht most compact cars. $25.00 each. For STOPS YOU A Messagge lrom your the UMOC contest, I hereby resogn lrom
HIND FIREHOUSE. CALL 4635 TO SING LINK friendly neoghborhood cancerltl that competotoon I also ask that all my
IDENTIFY 

more onlo call Andy at 6448 loyal supporters cast theor unendong sup­PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLOTHING .............. . .......... port to MIKE GURDAK. undoubtedly the UNIFORM JERSEYS,TEAM JACKETS NIGHTSOUNDS t 05 FM 10:30 PM DIANE, WHERE IS THE CANDY??? ugliest thong on the lace ol thos year. All AND MUCH MORE. EVERY MAJOR goldlosh cronge at the soght ot hom, sonce
I LOST/FOUND I L--1_F_O_R_R_EN_T____JI 
LEAGUE FOOTBALL, BASEBALL, LaGROTIA RETURNS! Two days they realize that he os the boggest threat to HOCKEY AND SOCCER TEAM remain. Crime will pey lor lockets to Police con­theor exostence, next to The Plague 
AVAILABLE. EACTL Y THE SAME cert on Chocago. Desperately needed! Call LOST a solver heart locket wllh my name THINGS THAT THE PRO'S WEAR D.EAT.H Penguon at 284-5 737 or Catwoman at Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha (pretty cute, Macor WHEN THEY PLAY GREAT COLLEC­284-4t08 Coercong some poor lady to wrote a per· engraved on ot. lllound please call Amaloa ROOMMATE WANTED-conoplutely lur· 
at38t8 noshed apt . super locale, NAME YOUR TORS ITEMS.EVEN HAE BENGAL'S CONGRATULATIONS. KE;VIN OMILIAK sonal claomong you to be ugly You loollsh 
RENT· Dave 283-1 169 
SUPER BOWL JERSEYS.FOR MORE ON YOUR ENGAGEMENT TO YOUR WANTED: person !II Everyone knows you are not on­Found Blue and green scarl Doscovered at Bendox Woods t.t 4-.82 Call John at NEEDED One roommate. House near 
INFO CALL TIM t 609 HTH IT'S ABOUT TIME! lockets -as many as possoble lor Mar­ly so good-lookong that gorls ask YOU out. 1764 to odentoly quette. Wolllng to trade lockets to any other but also make a prolessoon ol helpong lottie
campus. bars Call 233-2969 
STEREO EQUIP POST X-MAS SPE­MUSICIANS· Lookong lor a drum· home game. Call Moke at 8649 old ladoes across the street -and they 
mer.vocalost and keyboard player to help ask you out, tool). So all you charotable PROF. CONSULTATION AND FREE IN· form a rock band tor 2nd semester In­No matter how bogus ot may seem, Idaho people out there, let's rally behond the 
LOST one left-hand brown callskon leat-CIALS; BOSE 301'S $225 MANY MORE. 
her glove ort.around Washongton Hall at 
I I 
STALLATION SERVICE, STUDENT terested? Call DeMar 3410 or Keith 3507 IS unbeaten .Let's Get Psychedltlt UGLIEST MAN ON CAMPUS! JOEcallbacks on the evenong of the 18th. 11 WANTED found, please contact Davod Barber at 
RUN WITH STUDENT PRICES! CALLJB MUSUMECI os the one! Remember that 
8232, 8213, 8228 HIDDEN HEARTS! Feb 12 Zahm. Ask a LYNDA. beauty os only skon deep, but UGLY runs Zahmboe! HAPPY BIRTHDAY!tl May your last one straoght to the bones! (and Musumeco has 
8109 Thanxl L-----------......1 
o·sulhvan stereo cabtnet and P1oneer as a songle be lolled woth tun and ad­the boggest bones on campus) FOR low stropes between Farley and North Need 4 GA's (2 pr) tor MAROUt TTE. Call TS-695 car speakers. reasonable proce ATIENTION N D MALES ANNE COL­venture. L1hle brother also hopes every· MORE INFORMATION ON THE MOOSE FOUND While sko cap woth red and yel­
AI 1384 call Jamoe 277-2046 LIGAN'S BODY-WARMING SERVICE IS thongoswell FOR UMOC CAMPAIGN, CONTACT NOW IN BUSINESSIII CALL 1618 NOW Love. ME, STEVE BROWN, HIS REALLY Donong Hall. Tuesday Claom at Adm Bldg 
Lost and Found Need 2 GA's lor North Caroo•lla State. Greg PRETIY GOOD-LOOKING MANAGER
FOR INFO. 

CALL8738 MORE NEWS ON WAYS TO ABUSEANYONE KNOWING THE 
DYSTROPHY PLEASE CALL 8321 BY THE MOOSE COMING UP WHEREABOUTS OF CASSETE TAPES 
TICKETS 
WHICH ARE MISSING FROM SMC t OR 2 AOOMMATES,GRAD OR LAW t'o28'o82. FutFutFetll .. .. ..... . .. BEACH PARTY, PLEASE RETURN TO 
TO SHARE HOUSE IN NICE AREA Sign-ups lor the Hunger CoaJJVon's TO THE PERSON WHO SENT ME 720 LEMANSDESK CALL KEN AT 239-5694 OR 289-3945. CATHIE SCHULTZ· Chrostmas os past. Wednesday Fast Program TODAY In TWIX BARS-THANKS! BUT I HAVE NEED MARQUE TIE TIX · STUDENT OR but we'd stoll like some of your GIN­both dining halls. LAst semester over 900 TO ASK. WHO ARE YOU? -REN LOST SILVER AMETRON WATCH Need rode to Cleveland, 0. Froday, Jan. GA. KATIE 8001 GERBREAD. Ernoe and Chuck people signed up to raise almost 29 Can leave anytome Call John, 3770. SIO,OOOI

LOST SOMEWHERE NEAR MENS WANTED: Joe Musumeco lor UMOCI He
WANTED: MARQUETIE TIX CALL Faet Feet Fut
Need 2 Marquette GA's.Call Art 3110. MOLLY8034 
LOCKER ROOM AT THE ROCK needs the SMC vote so rally behond him 
NEED an omagonatove and creatove person 
ANYONE HAVING ANY INFORMATION gorlsl(lt's the best voew and even that's not 
to desogn Student Unoon artwork. Per­Desperately need 2 MARQUETIE GA'S. son's work will be seen weekly all over PLEASE HELP!! CALL SUSAN 6354 Mr. Mojo'• rletn' 
OF THE WHEREABOUTS OF THIS · good!) 
WATCH CAN CONTACT ME AT 3113. Spo~sered by hos SMC campaogn ASKFORBOB managers 
TRISH-Breakfast Is lonely without you. 
campus. Apply NOW at S.U. Offoce. SOON! (and hos haor os growin') 
.. 


The Observer -Sports Monday, January 25, 1982 -page 8 
... 

Joe montana l•ads 49•rs to victory in SUPER BOWL XVI 
I For further infonnation Writ~: Father Andr~ L~v~ill~. CSC Box 541 Notr~ Dam~. Indiana 46556 
llllh • Ptlyllca • et.miltry • Engln~~rilg 
TEACH IN FLORIDA 
No Expeiience Necessary 
lmmediaiB ""*illgl for gadt.atn wtlh • ~Oewee in Math, Physics. Cheminy, 01 Engir....-iiiQ to IBach CXUM1 In the science am b8cht I06ogy of NuciNr PropUeion. 
Statting ...-y $19,500 rap6dty ~to $28,000. Must be a U.S. Cili:z8n under 29 ~of 11g1. 30 dayl Pllid vacation earned eec:h yeet. Free medk:al ~ deral peckage. ~ dents benefe M8o provided. 
Department of the Navy 575 N. Perii'leytvanla Street Otflce 848 OPO lnd..,.polls, IN 48204 317-269-6183 or 1-800-382-9404 
Former Irish Star 
Montanaleads 49ers to victory 
PONTIAC, Mich. (AP) -Joe Montana's flamboyant quarterback­ing earned him the Most Valuable Player award in Super Bowl XVI, but if he had his way, the honor would have gone to the San Francisco 49ers' defense. 
Montana engineered two long touchdown drives in the first half af­ter San Francisco's rookie-packed secondary erected an end zone wall. And that defense turned back 'Cin­cinnati again when it most mattered in the second half, giving the 49ers a 26-21 victory over the Ben gals. 
First, the defense repelled the Bengals three consecutive times from 1 yard out in an epic goal-line stand in the third quarter, then cor­nerback Eric Wright, who had forced a first-half fumble, inter­cepted a pass by Bengals' quarter­back Ken Anderson in the game's closing minutes to set up Ray 
........................................................................................................................ 
Cogimo'g ffioUt C[)egig" 
18461 St. Rd. 23 Soutb Bend, call for appointment 2 77-18 75 
-shampoo, conditioner, cut style Guys-$7.00 (reg. 13.00) iirls-$10.00 (reg. 18.00)
........................................................................................................................ 


CULTURAL ARTS 
COMMISSION 


presents: 

MIKHAIL BARYSHNIKO 


and The American Ballet Theatre 
Saturday Evening, February 6, 1982 Bus leaves 6:15PM from Library Circle; Returns atter show Tickets-$26°0 -Bus and Performance 
va1lable at Student Union Ticket Office 

Use the handy order form in your tax package to order any of 90 free IRS publications. 
A public service message from the Internal Revenue Service 
Wersching record-tying fourth field goal. That was the one that effective­ly killed the Bengals' hopes of continuing the American Con­ference's domination ofthe National Football League championship game. 
Montana, who completed 14 of22 passes for I57 yards, passing for one score and running for another, declined to take credit for the vic­tory. "The key was the defense in the second half. The defense came up with the big plays. 
"The team that gets here had to have everything going theirway,"he 
. added, summarising not only the remarkable season in which the 49ers posted a 13-3 record, the best in the NFL, but this game itself. 
The Bengals agreed the turnovers and the goal-line stand killed them. 
"You can't play a Super Bowl game and turn the ball over three times and think you're going to win," said Anderson, who valiantly rallied the Bengals from a 20-0 halftime deficit, the biggest in Super Bowl hstory. 

After the game, while Montana was talkingwth teammates and writers, Walsh was on the telephone, accepting congratulatios from President Reagan. 
"I want to congratulate you and your entire team, " said Reagan. "And tell Joe Montana I think maybe he did win one for the Gipper." 
It was actor Ronald Reagan who played George Gipp, the former Notre Dame star, in the old movie, "The Knute Rockne Story." 
"I think Joe was thinking of the 

Gipper when he won that one,"said 
49er Head coach Bill Walsh, who 
recently met the president. "When I 
got to shake your hand, I was hoping 
to receive a call from you in about 
two weeks. And I'll tell Joe about the 
Gipper." 

San Francisco celebrates first Super win 
By FRANCES d'EMD.IO 
AssociatedPress Writer 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP)-Church bells chimed, fire sirens screamed, car horns honked and thousands of victory-starved San Francisco 49er fans danced in the streets, swigged champagne and shouted "We're No.I" as their team beat the Cincin­
nati Bengals 26-21 Sunday in Super Bowl :XVI. 
People bounded down Union Street dancing, embracing and kiss­ing strangers. People popped through their car sunroofs to shout and wave, and the streets were flooded with red and gold, the 49ers' colors. 
"We got it all together," yelled a 
man with dyed-red hair, a red scarf 
and red T-shirt. 
It was the first championship in 
the 49ers' lackluster 36-year history 
and the first major league world 
championship of any kind for 
<:cstatic San Franciscans. 
People popped in and out of 

neighborhood bars. Traffic jammed 
and buses on Union Street were 
frozen in place by the seething 
horde of fans, many of whom clam­
bered atop the vehicles to dance and 
holler. 
Nearby, a middle-aged man 

climbed four stories up a painter's 
scaffold to win a kiss from a woman 
who was leaning from her window 
shouting, "Victory! Victory!" as the 
crowd below cheered. 
Happy fans hurled footballs across 

the intersection of Columbus and 
Broadway, one of the city's busiest 
corners, as a massive traffic jam 
formed. 
The celebrations actually started 

long before the game ended. Dozens 
of restaurants and bars offered 
patrons a chance to wash their 49­
cent hot dogs down with 49-cent 
beers. 
And at one massage parlor in sub­

urban Berkeley, televisions were 
turned on so that customer would 
be able to follow the game during 
rubdowns. 
IRS TAX TIP 
Keep records -of income, deductions, and credits appear­ing on your tax return for at least three years, and keep copies of your filed tax returns as permanent records. 
·------------------------------­The Observer -Sports Monday, january 25, 198.2 -p?.ge ~ 

Senior co:captain Dave Poulin sneaks one pas 
Rachel Blount) 

shell-shocked Bowling Green goalie(photo bJ 
...Idaho 
continuedfrom page 12 
Owens, a 6-0 junior college transfer 
from New York City, who pumps in 
just over 16 points a game and 
shoots ')2 percent from the floor and 
89 percent from the foul line. 
Owens also leads his team in assists 
with tivc per contest. He teams up in 
the backcourt with 6·5 junior Brian 
Kellerman ( 12 ppg., S I percent 
shooter). 
The front line reads 6-6 all across 
the board. Forwards Gordon Her­
bert, a senior, and Phil Hopson, a 
junior, surround center Kelvin 
Smith, also a junior. Herbert, anoth­
er junior college transfer (one of 
.. .Rowan 
continuedfrom page 12 
ference ill the game." 
Driesell was also very critical of his tt·am's play. "We didn't deserve to win," he said. "We played without imcnsity and agressiveness. I'm very disappointed with our kids." 
Driesdl wasn't pleased with Branch's play. "I'm never pleased with anyone's performance when wt· lose," he said. "We really don't want 10 go 10 one man in the clutch like we went to Adrian tonight. That'!> something he must learn. fie takes it upon himself and it hurts evt·ryonc dst•." 
Phelps wasn't so hard on the Ter­rapins. "Maryland is playing well," he said. "They have a chance at a very sun:cssful season. They can get an NCAA tournament bid by doing well in the ACC tournament." 
The Notre Dame lockerroom was a very happy place after the game. "It feels great to finally win a close one," said Andree. "We knew we could take this one. We just went out and did the job." 
IRISH ITEMS -Rowan's 14 points was a caret•r high ...The Irish continued their good shooting pace, hitting S4 percent from the field. 
""'"'·~··· ..•••••••••..········lllllllllldlhll'lnllllll~
IRocco's Hair Styling I 531 N. Michigan St.,~ South Bend Phone-233-4957 
............................................................LI 
' --­
four on the Idaho squad) from Van­couver, is among the nation's leaders in field goal percentage (63 percent) and averages about l 5 ppg. He also paces the Vandals' rebound­ing attack with six rpg. 
Hopson, who hails from Portland, Ore., scores at an I I per game clip and shoots 58 percent. Smith, a junior college product from Pasco, Wash., averages 10 points a game. 
''Idaho's a very good team," Phelps says. "They play with a lot of enthusiasm and they play a 'matchup zone' very well. 
"For them to beat Oregon State by 20, we have to be concerned." That victory, which came on December 28 (88-68), is Idaho's only win all season against proven national com­petition and came in the Far West Classic. The Vandals captured that tournament with surprising ease, and it was then that they began receiving the attention of the na­tion's basketball fans. 
Idaho also has posted victories over Washington State, Washington, Oregon and Iowa State -all with familiar names but none of which are national powerhouses. All of the V andals' other victories have come against weak western opponents, many of them against Big Sky Con­ference competition. 
Idaho captured the conference title in 1981 with an impressive 23-4 record, but fell in the first round of the NCAA Tournament to Pitts· burgh, 70-69. 
So that is why tonight's game is so crucial to both teams. For Coach Don Monson's Vandals, it may be their chance to achieve the national recognition they feel they deserve. 

Ditto for the Irish, who still harbor thoughts of making the 32-team NIT field. "I feel we can go II-3 in our final 14 games," Phelps says. "I can't tell you which three we'll lose ­just give me the ll wins, you can have the three losses." 
Win number one of this span came Saturday night, a 55-51 victory over a I 0-5 Maryland team. The Irish have played well now in their last four outings, prompting one op­timistic writer to ask Phelps on Saturday night whether he feels his team could possibly make the NCAA Tournament. 
"Well, only if there's a miracle," said Phelps. "But you know how this place and mirades seem to go to· gether. 
"But that's not our top priority now. Our goal is just to go out and improve ourselves every night. And I think we're doing a pretty good job of that." 
IRISH ITEMS: Tonight's game marks the halfway mark of Notre Dame's current homestand, of which the Irish have won two out of three ...Maine visits the ACC on Wednesday, with Marquette next on Saturday ...The Irish now stand at 4-1 0, and will be looking for their first two game winning streak of the season with a win tonight. 
NO CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS!!! 
Application for Activity Fee Funding for 2nd Semester, are now available in the Student Activities Office, 1st Floor LaFortune. 
Deadline for filing is Friday, February 5 
Decisions will be made the following week. 
Dziabis sets record in loss to HaW"keyes 
Several outstanding Individual performances were turned in by Notre Dame trackmen in a losing ef­fort at Iowa on Saturday. The Haw­keyes won the meet 69-62. 
ln his first coUegc meet, freshman Phil Gilmore took third in the 60 with a time of 6.4 seconds. John McCloughan place third in the 60 high hurdles with a time of 7.4 seconds. Freshman Mitch Van Erken took second in the 300 with ?. dme of 3I.6 seconds. 
Steve Dziabis won both the 440 and the 600 with times of 48.7 and 
I: I 0. 7 respectively. "Dziabis' double was phenomenal," said Irish Head coach Joe Piane. "The 48.7 second quarter-mile set a Field House record. Bill Ribera also ran weU, placing third in the 440, and ran a supreb leg in the mile relay." 
Jan Kania ran a I: 13.0 and took third place int the 600. 
Jim Moyar also won two races, the 880 and the I000 in times of I :54.0 and 2:13.0. "Jim ran very, very well," said Piane. "He clearly won both races." 
Freshman Tim Cannon won the mile with a time of 4:10. "I'm not suprised," said Plane. "He's talented, he's a great competitor, and we're just seeing the beginning of his potential." 

Ralph Caron won the two-mile event with a personal-best time of 
8:55. "Ralph led from the gun, he ran exactly as we had planned," said Plane. Andy Dillon also ran a per­sonal best and finished third with a time of9:04. 
The mile-relay team of Jacques Eady, Ron Hyde, Bill Ribera, and Mitch Van Eyken won with a time of 3:20. 
"Robby Finnegan put the shot 48­6 in his first college meet. That's very competitive," said Piane. The freshman footballer placed third in the meet. 
Notre Dame picked up second and third places in the high jump when Paul Doyle jumped 22-6 and Greg Bell jumped 22-4. The Irish also picked up a second and a third place in the pole vault when Paul Doyle vaulted I 4-0 and Steve Chronert vaulted 13-6. 
"We didn't get any breaks," said Piane. "I am extremely dlsap· pointed. We should have beaten them. That means that we'll have to work that much harder for this Friday." The Irish play host to Loyola, Valparaiso, Bradlcy,and Illinois-Chicago Circle this Friday at the ACC. 

E;DISON & IRONWOOD 

...ir desip for the •••re••and wo•n
f------cOUPON'------, 
Shampoo &Hair cut 2! 1 . • 1 WITH
I 10f Sp<:_Cla COUPON : 
1 Bring a friend 2for $10 1L-------COUPON------J 
@REDI<EN 
C~ll for an appointment with Robb, Joanne or Paul 
HOURS· MON.-1:30-5:00 Th•rs.-1:30-1:30 Fri. 1:30-5:30 
S.t.-8:00-4:00 
Phone 234-6767 

GET YOUR CAREER OFF TO A FLYING START 
It tokes tour years to get a college degree. How long will it toke you to get a good job? 
If you haven't settled on a company or corporation yet. why not get your executive career off to a flying start as a pilot or navigator in the United States A1r Force? It's the finest flight pro­gram 1n the world. the pay is excellent. and you'll enjoy the prestige that goes with the sliver wings of on Air Force pilot or navigator. 
It's one of the finest opportunities in the notion. And a great place to gain execut1ve experience with million dollar respon­sibility. Find out today about the Air Force flight program. Con­
tact Calf SSgt. Marty Lazar, Collect 
South South Bend 219-233-4 74 7 
or Valparaiso 219-464-4151. 

A great way of life. 

~­
• 
.. 
.. 
The Observer -Sports 
Freshman Laura Dougher~y contributes six assists in Saturday's victory over Michigan(photo by CherylErtlet) 
40turnovers 
By SARA ZAPPIA 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's basketball team suffered a 95-46 thrashing Saturday night in Angela Athletic Facility, at the hands ofa very impressive Butler team. A definite height advantage and an effective fast break were the key to Butler's success. 
The Belles got off to a slow start and could not seem to shake a swarming Butler defense that con­tinued to plug the inside throughout the game. Forced to take outside shots, SMC was left with little or no rebounding power underneath. Be­cause ofthe loss of Missy Van Ort for academic reasons and Trish Nolan with an injury, the Belles were out­rebounded I 7-5 on the offensive 
boards. 
Another deciding factor in the. 
game was the number of turnovers. 
Butler gave up the ball only II 
times, while SMC turned it over 40 
times. Because Butler had few tur­
novers, they were able to build a 26­
9 lead midway through the first half. 
They continued to roll and ex­
tended their lead at halftime to 47­
21. 
Continued defensive success as well as excellent shooting allowed Butler to add to their lead in the second half. 
Even though handily defeated, coach jerry Dallasio looked at the game in a positive sense. "Sure we need some work, but I was impressed with the attitude of the team," added Dallasio, "We hustled until the end." 
In regards to the division II Butler team, Dallasio had nothing but praise, "Butler is a very talented team. They are the kind ofteam that does most everything well. They played Notre Dame earlier this 
continuedfrOm page 12 
around from last year's contest at Crisler Arena in Michigan, where DiStanislao's first Notre Dame s;lub fell96-65. 
"Our players know that there's no love lost between their coach and myself," said DiStanislao. "There's a lot of animosity between the two schools. But it wasn't really a ques­tion ofgetting up to play Michigan. I think our kids understand that they're Notre Dame, they're the team that was being called inept in the papers last year. They knew that this was a Big Ten team -a 


The highest standards are always the hardest to achieve. Yet they're also the most rewarding. 
At General Dynamics· Electronics Division we're committed to excellence in the application of advanced technology to the design, development and manufacture of electronic systems and components. 
We're also committed to provide challenging, responsible assignments and many avenues for career growth to those who join us. · 
If your degree is in Electrical/Electronic, Computer Science, Mathematics, Systems Engineering, Systems Analysis, Physics, Mechanical, Industrial or Manufacturing Engineering, Business Administration, Finance or Economics 




Butlerwhips Saint Mary's 95-46 
Campus interviews February 4 &5• 
we'd like to talk with you aoout your opportunities at Electronics. 
See your campus placement office to arrange an interview. Or, send your resume to: College Relations Coordinator. General Dynam1cs Electronics Division, Mail Zone 7-32, 
P.O. Box 81127, San Diego, CA 92138. 
And find out JUSt how rewarding our mutual commitment can be. An equal opportunity employer 
GENERAL DYNAMICS 
Electronics Division 
season and won by nine. Any team that beats Notre Dame has got to be good." 
Gretchen Meyer led the Belles with I 5 points. She was followed by Anne Armstrong and Teresa McGin­nis who chipped in I 0 and eight points respectively. 
The Belles, now five and five, will play their next game Wednesday night at home against the University of Chicago. This will be the first meeting between the two schools. 
...Records 
legitimate test for them. And they're getting into meeting the challenge right now.'' 
IRISH ITEMS -Because of bad weather, St. Ambrose College was unable to make it to South Bend for a 
scheduled showing Saturday after­noon in the ACC. The g;ime will not be made up ... Yesterday's win was 
the first in four tries for the Irish against the Wolves. It also raised Notre Dame's home record to 5­
1 . . . Bates, who has scored 38 points in her last two games, has moved into the lead in the Irish 
scoring race. She is averaging just under I 3 points per outing ... Schueth continues to lead the Irish 
in rebounding. The Indianapolis native has collected 129 caroms, an average of just over nine per 
game . . . Martha McLean, a player under Sharon Petro during the I978-79 season, is now a Wolverine assistant under Soluk. 

310GXSedan 
select"" front­our n~ drive wheen-310· 

Datsu 
eel-drive . 
front-Wh d lookrnQ, 
The n 310 is goo table and 
Datsu d cornfor Ti toP 
roornY an ointed. o luxuriouslY apo~'erful, durat:s 
t's a p v• tha 
it off. I -handlin9 car nyour 
ble. easY it easY o 
. d to take d(ve soon. 
pnce -r; ke atest ' 
wallet. a 
·ooP:. 'lot 1nclude taxE>~.11cense. 
or \ltle lees 


See 
Kevin Killilea 283-1_064 220Flanner 





MlfYd 
PRODUCT OF NISSAN 
,. 

---~~ --~ 
"'

The Observer 
~c:»cJlC3l~========================M=o=nd~a=y=,J=a=n=uruy===2=5='=1=9=8=2===p=ag=e=l~l 
Molarity 




Simon Hospital 
BUT IT'S NOT A. IOTA.L 
L055, IN ALL THE YEA!i~ _I'Ve i3££N HE-RE 11-115 



The Daily Crossword 
1~~~~~~~==~~~~~~~~~==~~~~~~~ 

1/25/82 

All Ri hts Reserved 
ACROSS 28 Word on the 1 Artie wall or G.B. 29 Wander 5 Search about 32 From that group
10 Halt place 14 Blood: 33 High, in 
comb. form music 15 Bay window 34 Czech city 16 Engage 35 Burdens 17 Signifl· 36 Diamond­
cance 37 " •..unable 19 Space to sit still 20 Incorrect in-" 
card dis· 38 Weaponry 
tributions 39 Vandal 21 Demure 40 Grumble 23 Law degrees 41 Piggery 24 Rorie 42 Sit for a 25 Attack picture
Friday's Solution 

Michael Molinelli 



43 Declaims 22 Be in debt 44 Jumble 24 Farmer's 45 Thin nail place 46 Forsake 25 Map collec· 49 Royal tion 
title 26 Curt 53 Peruvian 27 Sordid 54 Ghost 28 Orono's 
stories state 56 Luminary 29 Thin mortar 57 Plumlike 30 Winby­
fruits 31 Cupolas 58 Chair 34 Make 59 Rope public 60 Intelligent 36 Fertile 61 Russian 37 Out-and· 
news agency out 39 Party DOWN giver 1 Tapered 40 Most blood· 
metal curdling 2 H a If: pref. 42 Golf score 3 Elec. units 44 Learned 4 Forests 45 Pipe 5 Good for material 
drinking 46 Record 6 Exams 47 Inner: 7 Trespasses comb. form 8 Champagne 48 Coverfor 
word a wound 
9 Component 49 Malayan 10 Disreputable vessel 11 Jade 50 Zeno's town 12 Mine 51 Vast 
products expanses 13 Kind of 52 Certain fuel planes 18 Mementos 55 Tree 
Campus 
•6 
p.m. -Dance Classes, Abiogenesis Dance Collective begins spring classes, Holy Cross Hal~ Notre Dame 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting, Mandatory meeting for prospective <.;>ndidates for student body presi· dent/vice presiut:nt, Student Government Offices 

•7 
p.m. -Fllm, "Broken Blossoms", Annenberg Auditorium, Snite r'1useum of Art, Sponsored by Department of Communication and Theatre, S1 admission 

•8 
p.m. -Basketball, ND Men vs. Idaho, ACC 

•8:30 
p.m. -Meeting, Mandatory meeting for all prospective candidates for Student government offices 

•9 
p.m. -Fllm, "Only Angels Have Wings", An· nenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Department ol Communication and Theatre, S1 admission 


Television Tonight 
7:00p.m.  16  MASH  
22  CBSNews  
28  Joker's Wild  
34  The MacNeiVLehrer Repon  
46  The Minnesota Connection  
7:30p.m.  16  All In The Family  
22  Family Feud  
28  Tic Tac Dough  
34  Strai$ht Talk  
8:00p.m.  16  Uttle House On The Prarte  
22  Mr. Merlin  
28  That's Incredible  
34  Great Performances  
46  Lester Sumrall Teaching  
8:30p.m.  22  Private Benjamin  
46  Blackwood Brothers  
9:00p.m.  16  NBC Movie:"When A Stranger Calls"  
22  MASH  
28  American Music Awards  
34  Bernstein/Beethoven  
46  Today With Lester Sumrall  
9:30p.m.  22  House Calls  
!O:OOp.m.  22  Lou Grant  
34  Profiles In American An  
46  Jimmy Swaggart Daily  

Today in History 
Today's highlight in history: 
In 1950, Alger Hiss was found guilty of perjury for concealing his Communist Party membership. 
On this date: 

In 1802, Napoleon Bonaparte became pre:::ident of the Italian Republic. 
In . I 831, the Polish Diet proclaimed that nation's indepen­dence, deposing the Romanovs. 
In 1949, the first elections were held in the new state oflsrael. 
In 1979, Pope John Paul II began his first Papal mission abroad, a so­called "pilgrimage of faith" to Latin America. 
Ten years ago, the United States and South Vietnam offered a peace proposal to Hanoi under which the 
U.S. would withdraw from Vietnam and free elections would be held in the South within six months of an agreement. 
Five years ago, Spanish workers struck to protest a wave of violence that had taken seven lives in Madrid in 48hours. 
One year ago, the 52 American hostages released by Iranian nian militants after 444 days of captivity returned to the United States, arriv­ing at West Point. 
Thought for today: To laugh is proper to man. -Francois Rabelais ( 1494?-1 55 3 ), French satirist -AP 
I 
-4; 


BUT WHAT DOES THE STUDENT UNION RECORD STORE HAVE FOR ME? 
CHEAPER PRICES PRICES--· Save 24-32% off list prices! MOST CURRENT SINGLES-$6.50 (compare at $8.99 list). Cut-outs... $2.98 to $5.98 
CONVENIENCE...The NDSU Record Store is located on the Main floor of Lafortune and is open 1 0-4 PLUS-ordered albums take 1 week only! 
GREAT SELECTION...Springsteen, Fogelberg, Moody Blues, Stevie Nicks, Cristopher Cross, Pat Benatar, Journey, and many more. 
ALSO...recorded and blank tapes available. 
SO..•for CHEAPER PRICES, MORE CONVENIENCE, and a GREAT SELECTION ~top by the S.U. Record Store today!! 


Monday, january 25, 1982 -page 12 


By DAVE DZIEDZIC 
Sports Writer 
"We've finally tasted the other side of the mountain," said Notre Dame Coach Digger Phelps follow­ing his team's 55-51 victory over Maryland Saturday night. "We had been to the top of the mountain a few times during the past couple of weeks, but tonight we made it over." 
Phelps was referring to the fact that the Irish had come close to upsetting both San Francisco and Villanova. "I told the players before the game that we've been playing 
well in the past week," Phelps said, "and the thing we needed to work on was people becoming clutch per­formers in clutch situations. We got some ofthat tonight, and it made the difference." 
Freshman guard Ron Rowan was j especially good in the clutch. He connected on five out ofsix from the 
~-field and four out of seven from the free throw line to lead the Irish with 14 points. Rowan's two free throws with eight seconds remaining iced the game for the Irish. "Ron kept his composure tonight. He's had two good Saturdays in a row," Phelps said. "Let's hope he has a third next Saturday against Mar-
q uette." 

"I knew I could make the free 
throws," Rowan said after the game. 
"I was a little nervous down the 
stretch, but I'm happy that Coach 
Phelps showed confidence in me." 
For a while it appeared that Notre 
Dame wouldn't have to worry about 
the last two minutes of the game. 
The Irish, who led at halftime, 23-21, 
broke out to an early 37-25 lead in 
the second half. Several minutes 
later, the Irish held a 42-30 lead. But 
Maryland freshman Adrian Branch 
and senior Charles Pittman led the 
Terrapins back into the contest with 
two baskets each. 

But the Irish were able to hold off 
the Terrapin surge, thanks to excel­
lent defense and fine free-throw 
shooting. 

Phelps was glad to see the Irish 
being able to rely on people besides 
leading scorer John Paxson in the 
stretch. "Last season we had 
Tripucka, Jackson, Paxson and 
Woolridge to go to in the clutch," he 
said. "But so far this season, Paxson 
has been forced to shoot in the 
clutch. Tonight, other people con­
tributed down the stretch as well." 
Besides Rowan, junior forward 
Bill Varner was a key performer. Var­
ner scored ll points on five-of-
Irish icers split series with Bowling Green 
By MICHAEL OLENIK Schmidt brought the now believing Sports Writer crowd to its feet at 16:34 when he fired a high wrist shot into the cage 
Living up to expectations, the for the tying score -another Notre Dame-Bowling Green hockey powerplay goal. series turned out to be one of fast However, Peter Wilson, who gave paced action and high intensity. Al­the Irish touble throughout the 
though the two respective coaches series, gave the Falcons the win in would have preferred a less wide overtime when he snuck a pretty 
open style of hockey, the enthusias­feed from George McPhee under­tic crowds that packed the arena neath Dave Laurion just :39 into could ask for little more. 
overtime. It was, to say the least, a fan's Friday's show was more to the 
series. Unfortunately, what would taste of the home supporters, as the have been the end of a perfect Irish skated off ice with an overtime weekend for Irish partisans turned win that featured a beautiful pass 
play for the final goal. 

Jnto a tough overtime loss on Satur· · day afternoon when Bowling Green With just under four minutes salvaged a series split by nipping the 
gone in the extra period, John Irish 8-7 after Lefty Smith's team Deasey banged a perfect pass off the took a 9-8 OT win on Friday. sideboards to fellow freshman Brent 
Both games saw end to end action Chapman. Chapman gathered in the from start to finish, and throughout pass at the Falcon blueline and broke
.. 
the series the ebb and flow of emo­in on goal unattended. After a quick 
tions was difficult to gauge. In both deke, Chapman sent the crowd into games, the Irish found themselves delerium by sliding the puck under with a three goal deficit -once ear­the stick of David into the cage. ly and once late. But due to some in­
see ICERS, page 7 spired play and even more inspired 

crowd support, the Irish fought back and Michigan is a team that people on both occasions in impressive fas­
are going to recognize." hion. "I was happy with my perfor­
Netters won't face 
"Both clubs showed great dedica­mance," she added, "but they tion and determination to play the weren't a very good defensive team. 
way they did out there, and you can It would have been good experience
unbeaten Vandals 
to play against Donovan (Michigan's

be sure that I am very proud ofofthe team," related Srpith. "Bowling By CHRIS NEEDLES 
Sports Writer 

Green is one ofthe best teams we've seen, so we have no reason to be ashamed ofour effort." Unfortunately, Irish fans will have to put those "I7 and I" cheers on
The effort that he spoke of was hold for a while. 
typified by Notre Dame's That's because previously un­
remarkable comeback in Saturday's 
• contest. After trading first period defeated Idaho, Notre Dame's op­goals, the Falcons opened up a 6-4 ponent tonight at the ACC, lost for lead after the second stanza and the first time this season on Saturday added an issurance marker just I :35 night, 53-51, at Montana. As a result, into the final period. the Vandals enter tonight's game With the pressure obviously on (8:05, MetroSports TV) with "only" the Irish offense, series standout a 16-1 record, instead of I 7-0. Dave Poulin and his teammates But that setback should not responded. At 2:33, Poulin picked detract from tonight's matchup, up his second goal of the afternoon which is Notre Dame's seventh of by wristing in a shot off of a Bill the season against a Top Ten team. Rothstein blast to give the· Irish their By virtue ofSaturday's defeat, Idaho first powerplay goal ofthe game. should fall from its No. 7 ranking that Five minutes later, Poulin struck it occupied last week; at the same 
again by deflecting a John Schmidt time, though, it should give the Van­shot past Falcon goalie Mike David dals an added incentive to prove for another powerplay score. themselves to the nation, especially seven from the field. Varner made a key basket offofa dribble-drive with 40 seconds remaining. "Bill made an excellent play," Phelps said. "Any time you feel you can score, you have to do it." 
Notre Dame was able to stifle Maryland with a tight 2-1-2 zone defense throughout the contest. "Our zone worked very well," com­mented Phelps. "As long as we held the lead, we had no reason to come out ofthe zone." 
The Irish zone especially frustrated Branch. Even though Branch was the game's high scorer with 16 points, he was never able to get on track and penetrate the zone. Branch might also have been bot­hered by the Notre Dame students, who heckled the highly-touted freshman by yelling every time he touched the ball. 
"We kept the zone tight," said Phelps. "In the second half, they worked hard to get inside on us in order to open up their outside game. But we kept the pressure on them." 
Irish center Tim Andree knows how tough it was under the basket in the second half "They tried to work it in to (Charles) Pittman (Maryland's 6-8 senior center)," said Andree. "He's very strong and tough. I just tried to take away what I could and not foul him." 
Maryland Coach Charles • Lefty' Driesell had nothing but praise for the Irish. "I thought Notre Dame played with more poise and con­fidence than we did," he said. "They hit the free throws when they needed them. That was the dif­
see ROWAN, page 9 
Irish UJin seventh straight gatne 
By MARK 'HANNUKSELA which also won for the first time Sports Writer ever against a Big Ten opponent. Junior center Shari Matvey, on 7-of-
It would appear at this point that 11 shooting, scored 1 5 points, while no record is safe with Mary DiStanis­freshmen Ruth Kaiser and Mary Beth lao's women's basketball team. Schueth each added I 0. 
In the third game of the season, Schueth paced Notre Dame in DiStanislao's club set five team rebounding with 12. Bates and records in a 92-29 win over Saint Kaiser each had nine. Mary's. Senior Diane Dietz, the leading 
Yesterday at the ACC, Notre scorer for Coach Gloria Soluk's club, Dame turned in another record­was held to just I 0 points, 12 below setting performance in downing her average. Michigan 71-48. Peg Harte's 12 points paced Mich­
Freshman Carrie Bates scored a igan, which was playing its third career-high 23 points in leading the game in as many days. Harte's season Irish to their first-ever win over the average is 20.9 ppg. 
Wolverines. "We played well -we needed Three other players scored in to," Bates said after the contest. "We double figures for Notre Dame, haven't played that many big team's, 
since the game is being televised na­6-5 center) a little longer, to tionally. practice fronting her, somethingI've 
Ironically, according to Irish had trouble with, but she didn't play coach Digger Phelps, tonight's game that long (only 13 minutes)." might afford the opportunity for his Yesterday's win was Notre Dame's team to gain national headlines, too. seventh straight, tying a mark set in 
"It'll be a chance for us to gain 1978-79. It also was the IIth win in 
some real recognition," says Phelps, 14 games for DiStanislao's club, "especially if we upset them which was 6-8 at the same point last tonight." year. 
Phelps has termed this upcoming The loss was Michigan's second 
week "National Potato Week," with straight (they lost at Kentucky Satur­consecutive games against Idaho day), and their sixth in 16 games. tonight and Maine on Wednesday. For the game, the Irish shot .564 
But, by tournament time come from the floor, which breaks the March, the state of Idaho might be single game mark of .543 set against known more for its studs than its host Alaska-Anchorage last season in 
spuds. The Vandals feature a well­the Northern Lights Tournament. balanced attack, wth all five starters "You can never find fault with a 56 
averaging in double figures. percent shooting effort," said DiS­Idaho's leading scorer and resi­tanislao. "We got 59 points out of dent superstar is senior guard Ken our forwards (Bates, Kaiser, Matvey and Schueth), which is just super. see IDAHO, page 9 They (Michigan) just killed them­
selves -we got so many easy bas­:kets." 
Easily half of Notre Dame's 31 field goals came from within five feet of the basket. Kaiser, Matvey and Bates all scored twice from inside as the Irish scored 22 ofthe game's first 28 points. Susan Neville drilled a 10­foot jumper from the left baseline to give Notre Dame its biggest lead of the first half at 35-14 with 3:41 left in the period. 
"We knew right offthe bat that we had to control the tempo of the game," said DiStanislao, who has now evened her career coaching record at Notre Dame at 21-21. "Michigan has been averaging over 70 points per game -they like to run and gun, and they take a lot of shots. I'd say 20-4 (the score at the midway point ofthe first half) is con­trolling the tempo." 
With about three minutes remain­

ing in the first half, Michigan began 
to press the Irish. The Wolves also 
came out pressing after the intermis­
sion. But DiStanislao's club handled 
the pressure well. The Irish com­
mitted only two turnovers against 
the full-court pressure. 
"Presses haven't been a real big 
problem for us," DiStanislao said. 
"It's the unadulterated turning the 
ball over -throwing the ball away, 
travelling -that's where we've had 
trouble." 
Notre Dame finished the game 
with 26 turnovers. 
Notre Dame's biggest lead of the 
contest came late in the second half, 
when freshman guard Laura Doug­
herty converted both ends of a one 
and one to give the Irish a 71-44 lead 
with two minutes remaining. 
Dietz and Cheryl Sobkow then 

closed out the scoring for Michigan. 
The final 23-point margin of vic­

tory represents a 54-point turn-
see RECORDS, page 10 





