r-~~----------~----~~~~~------------~--------------~----~----------------~----------------~-------~-----~-­
, , .Edifice aomptex-page 9 


Hit-and-run accident 
Families increase reward 
very well happen again. We're sen­Mcinerny, ofSouth Bend, both soph­
By MICHAEL MONK Editor·in-Chief ding a message out that it has to stop. omores at the University, were We're not going to take it anymore." struck from behind as they walked 
Families of two Notre Dame hit­Last 'iveek the families offered a through the 1400 block of South and-run victims increased to 52,000 sI,000 ;eward. Since then the South Bend Ave. Police theorize that Man­nion was hit by the right front ofthe
the reward for information leading Bend Police Dept. has received to the arrest of the driver respon­several calls regarding different car car and that Mcinerny was swiped sible for the September 26 accident. descriptions and license plate num­by the side of the car. At a press conference held yester­bers but no substantial leads have "Damage to the car is probably limited to small dents or scuffs on
day morning in St. Joseph's Medical resulted. After extensive laboratory the hood and fender," said Retti.
Center, Joseph Retti, Kerin Man­nion's uncle. and Kay Mannion, analysis of evidence gathered at the "We need the help of car washes, Kerin's mother, asked for help in scene of the accident, the FBI in­body shops, and people on the street. If everyone helps out, we'll
seeking the driver who struck Man­formed police yesterday that the 
nion and Elizabeth Mcinerny on 
vehicle involved is a white General catch the individual responsible for this."
South Bend Ave. nearly three weeks Motors passenger car built between 
ago. 1969 and 1982. The four diYisions of Although the FBI has not yet "We need your help," said Retti of General Motors are Pontiac, determined the model ofthe vehicle Manhattan. "If this person isn't Oldsmobile, Chevrolet and Buick. involved, that information may be 
caught soon, the same thing could Mannion, of Syracuse, N.Y., and 
available soon. 
"The FBI is continuing to break down the paint samples found by the police," said Retti. "They assure me that after further analysis, they will
Hartcallsfor newbreed 
be able to zero in on the exact make and model ofthe car." Retti said further that if the FBI is
ofeconomicretotm 
unsuccessful in determining the car model, then he would enlist the helpBy PAM RICHARDSON Hart said, "It's time for an of private paint analyst in Syracuse. 
News Staff 
economic reform movement -a But because the paint samples are movement with the goal of going to legal evidence it is uncertain Economic policies have been the heart of nature of society and of whether they can be released to 
failing for a least a century, and it's human behavior." This economic outside parties. 
time leaders recognize that the reform is needed, according to Hart, Although both students are listed modern industrial age require a new because "industialization shattered 
in fair condition, Mannion in St. Joe's breed ofeconomics. 
traditional society." People are no Medical Center and Mcinerny in That was the message of Senator longer growing up and dying in the Memorial Hospital, Retti said that Gary Hart (D-Colo.) who spoke yes­same town. "Children live in a dif­they still face a long road to 
terday before a packed Memorial 
ferent world than their parents." recovery. Library Auditorium. The lecture was Hart admitted that the United 
"Both of his legs are broken, he sponsored by the White Center for 
States is facing very serious has a cervicle fracture, and so he Law and Government. 
economic problems, but not so can't do much for himself," said Mrs. 
serious that another crisis, as in the Mannion of her son. "He should be 
1930's, could arise. Hart said that "all able to leave the hospital within ten 
economic policies have been failing days and then we're g_oing to take 
for ai least a century and possibly him home to Syracuse with us." 
longer." Hart also reported that Mcinerny could remain in the economic success is often followed hospital for up to a month and then
Senator considers presidency 
by social turmoil, as seen in the will require the constant care of a 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE The Democrats, Hart said, need to 
emphasize on volunteer work in the campaign. 
News Editor 
Senator Gary Hart ( D-Colo.) who Hart maintained that how thesaid he will "think about" running public and media percieve thefor president in 1984, said at a press outcome ofthe '82 elections is moreconference yesterday that rising un: important than how the Democraticemployment and other economic Party interprets the outcome.
factors have made this year's elec­A Democratic majority in the
tions the "most important since Senate would not 'only give new
1932." 
committee chairmen, but it would
Hart who made hi'-•emark~ at the "give us an entirely different
Michiaoa Regional '<trport joined agenda."
U.S. Representative Floyd Fithian (D-Ind. ), a candidate for the U.S. 
When the press asked Hart if he Senate, and Indiana state legislator 
was in fact a 1984 pre~idential can­didate, Hart responded, "Our primary concern is winning back Richard Bodine, a Democrat run­
ning against John Hiler for a seat in seats in Congress this year." Pressed
the U.S. House of Representatives. Economic policies during the 
for a more direct response, Hart said, next two years, said Hart. depend on 
"Well, I'll think about it." He added the ability of Congress to regain its 
that if he decides to run for presi­independence and its courage, two 
dent, he will announce that inten­commodities that Hart said it 
tion some time "early next year." desparately needs to display. Fithian said Hart is a man who has Hart said that Ronald Reagan has made a "careful, critical, and 
received cooperation from thoughtful analysis of defense Congress, and that "true economic spending," an area of "crucial con­health must be regained through cern" in the near future. Congress." Fithian commended Hart for 
The key for Democrats regaining being "the most specific Democrat seats in the Senate, Hart said, lies in on his position papers." He added the Rocky Mountain states and here that Hart's belief in "better defense in Indiana. "The biggest problem for less dollars ought to be the way Democrats face in this campaign is of the Democratic Party. It's not that they are being outspent four, enough to simply damn Republican 
five, and in some cases, 10 to one." policies." · 
Bodine agreed with Fithian and 1950's and 1960's. registered nurse. 
Hart that as Democrats, they were Hart explained his reason for Retti said that both Mcinerny and not opposed to tax breaks to cor­addressing the audience on Mannion will need at lea'it one year porations if those tax breaks stim­"Looking Beyond Economics" as a recovery time. ulate new production. Bodine thinks serious problem that politicians Retti is taking time ~If from his job that lowering unemploy-ment to usually do not approach on the cam­in New York to be -" ·. his family. seven percent would help ,America paign trail. Hart said that "as a When asked why ._. is being so rebound economically. 
See HART, page 5 See SEARCH, page 3 
BoardofRegents 
~MCdiscussesparietalchanges 
By MARGARET FOSMOE proposal is the result of several The. Regents will also plan Saint Mary's Executive Editor years of study. Modification of the appointment of an ad hoc the present policy has the ,sup· committee to study the financ­
The Saint Mary's Board of port of Parents' Council, ing of an expansion of the Regents will discuss today the Campus Ministry, Counseling, 
Sdence Hall. revised parietals plan . that Student Activities, and The meeting, which will last 
proposes extending the present 'Residence Life. through tomorrow, is the first policy to include weekday There will be a report on the gathering ofthe Regents for the hours. Bids for renovation of ~ progress ofplans for the Haggar I982-83 academic year. 
the former library into a stu­College Center. The facility, to The 30-member Board, com­dent center, and plans for an ex­be located in the former Col­prisea of Jay and r:eligious pansion of the Science Hall are lege Library, is scheduled to representatives, serves as the the other points to be decided. open in the fall of 1983. governing body ofSaiN Mary's. 
The new parietais plan An initial report about the The agenda also includes the proposes extending the present College Center was presented 
approval of candidates for 
hours to include the following: at the last meeting of the Board honorary degrees at Com­Friday, 5 p.m. to 2 a.m.; Satur­in the sp.:lng. Approval of bids mencement, 'review of the five day, I p.m. to 2 a.m.; Sunday, l for construction contracts and year forecast for the College, 
to I 0 p.m.; and Monday through plans for financing the Center and guidelines for the 1983-84 Thursday, 5 to 10 p.m. The will be discussed. budget. 
. .;, 
l 
'NewsBrie!J 
By The Obserl'er and The Associated Press 
mM will be here Friday to interview nearly 300 seniors for possible employment after graduation. Thirty recruiters from International Business Machines will conduct the interviews on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center, and appointments in some areas of employment are still open. The company was on campus two weeks ago for an information session where seniors signed up for scheduled interviews. IBM will mostly be talking with engineers, but arts and letters, business, science, and math and com­puter science majors are also being interviewed. Placement Bureau Projects Coordinator Scott Dix said yesterday that it is a little un­usual for a company to send as many as 30 recruiters "considering the present economic picture." Any senior still wanting to set up an interview with IBM should contact Dix as soon as possible. -The Observer 
Senator Donald Riegle, chiding President 
Reagan yesterday on behalf of Democratic candidates, told voters they are "paying the price" for administration policies that have forced millions of Americans onto unemployment, welfare and bread lines. Delivering the Democratic response to the president's televised address, the Michigan senator said the nation must reject GOP broadcast commercials asking voters to "stay the course." The ads argue that Republican candidates must be chosen in the Nov. 2 congressional elections so the president's policies have more time to 'take effect. Instead, said Riegle, voters must "change course" and vote Democrat because "they know what to do." "The truth is that this administration has created two courses ... one ofthem a very fast economic track for a few, the other tilled with potholes and roadblocks for the rest of us," said Riegle. "That's why staying the course makes sense to him-they're not paying the price. You are," Riegle said. Riegle said the policy adopted by the administration "has lead to incredible economic problems for millions of Americans who never thought they'd be in unemployment lines or welfare lines or bread lines." -AP 
A contractor cited yesterday for safety violations at a northern Indiana construction site where 13 workers were killed last April said it will challenge the state's t1ndings. The Indiana Oc­cupational Safety and Health Administration cited two contractors and the Indiana Department ofHighways for safety violations related to the collapse of the Cline Avenue extension project in East Chicago April 15. Thirteen workers were killed and 17 injured when three sections of the ramp crumbled as 280 tons of concrete were being poured onto a 180-foot section of the span. I OSHA issued a total of $22,980 in tines against Superior Construction Co., of Gary and Midwest Steel Erection Co., of Chicago. No tine was assessed against the highway department because Indiana law does not allow one state agency to tine another agency, said State Labor Commis­sioner Howard Williams, who oversees I OSHA. Meanwhile, Williams said the federal investigation into the tragedy pinpointed the cause as a concrete support pad that gave way, causing a chain reaction 
collapse. "We have not yet gotten a report from the National Bureau ofStandards, but they tell us that the pad triggered the collapse," he said. -AP 
A sellout crowdgathered yesterday to support the politi­cal survival ofLabor Secretary Raymond Donovan. President Reagan sent his regrets and scheduled a simultaneous speech on the nation's economic and unemployment situation. The event crowned a dif­t1cult period for Donovan, who has clung to his Cabinet job despite allegations of past ties to mobsters. The dinner was sponsored by "friends of the labor secretary," a loose-knit group of conservatives including direct mail guru Richard Viguerie and anti-ERA activist Phyllis Schafley. Few elected officials, but plenty of Reagan appoin­tees, were slated to attend the 550-a-plate dinner. The president declined, and several days before the event he scheduled his televised speech. Even so, some Donovan aides hoped Reagan would make a surprise show ofsupport for his embattled Cabinet secretary. Steven Some, chairman of the Donovan dinner, 'said 900 tickets had been sold at S50 apiece. "The response has been absolutely overwhelming," he said. "People are saying they are very pleased that we are doing this." The dinner was scheduled after special prosecutor Leon Silverman concluded a second time that there was "insufficient credible evidence" on 1which to prosecute Donovan on a variety of allegations that he had social and business ties to or­ganized crime t1gures as a NewJersey construction executive. -AP 
Bolivia's new civilian government has re­
established diplomatic relations with Nicaragua, the Foreign Ministry said. Cmdr. Sergio Rodriguez, a member of Nicaragua's ruling junta, attended the inauguration ofBolivian President Hernan Siles Zuazo on Sunday and was later received in the presidential palace as a "chief of state," a Foreign Ministry announcement said Tuesday night. Diplomatic relations with the leftist government of Nicaragua were severed in 1980 by Bolivia's previous right-wing military regime. The military stepped down last week to hand over power to the left-of-center civilian government ofSiles Zuazo. -AP 
Iran said yesterday that several international airlines are to resume flights to Iran "soon," following what it described as Iranian victories over Iraq in the Persian Gulf border war. The official Iranian news agency IRNA said the Turkish Airlines resumed flights to Iran two weeks ago. It said Italy's Alitalia, the Dutch airline KLM, Air India and Pakistan's PIA are among the foreign international airlines that plan to resume flights. Several in­ternational airlines suspended Bights to Tehran and other Iranian airports following the outbreakofthe Iran-Iraq war two yearsago. ­
AP 
It'll be warmer tomorrow as highs wm reach around 
60. Cloudy and cool today with highs In the mid to upper 50s. Decreasing cloudiness tonight and continued cool. Low in the low to mid 40s.. -Tbe Obseroer 
Thursday, October 14, 1982 -page 2 
Support your local paper 

This week is a very important one for all Americans, although most ofyou probably aren't aware why. Had it not been for a full page ad in last Sunday's South Bend Tribune, I would have been left totally in the dark also. 
No, Uncle Sam hasn't moved up tax time from April and Christmas is still being celebrated near the end of December. What then could be so relevant and vital as to warrant a column in this revered space? National Newspaper Week, ofcourse. 
Now before you pop the champagne corks and start waving the flags in celebration ofthis joyous occassion, try to compose yourselffor just a few minutes more. 
If you had never heard of National Newspaper Week before· now you can't he accused ofcultural ignorance. It is a well kept secret although it certainly isn't meant to he. There were no parades or wild hashes or celebrities extolling the virtues of the ncwspapn in­dustry. But it is still a time which we should all be aware 
of if we  are  to  fully appreciate  the  vital  role  that  
newspapers  play  in  each  of  our  lives.  National  
Newspaper  Week  (October  10-16)  is  a  time  for  

Americans to rctlect on the signiticancc of newspapers and the free press in our democratic society. Freedom ofthe press, like most ofthe basic rights that we enjoy in the U.S., is a right which is often taken for granted hy 
the public. And despite the criticisms that arc often directed at the print media regarding bia.~ and occas­sional sensationalism, the fact is that newspapers per­form a vital role in protect­ing our rights from government infringement. Perhaps we should consider what our lives would he like if all the newspapers. were controlled by the state, as is the case in many countries throughout the world today. 
The scenario would not he 
too appealing. 
Although the thought of state-controlled newspapers, or any other medium for that matter, conjures up images of oppressive and totalitarian governments, a situation somewhat similar currently exists on many college campuses across the U.S. where the administration exerts control over the content of the campus newspaper. Although the circumstances arc not nearly as extreme or encompassing as those in Communist countries, when a potentially threatening or overly critical article or editorial is due to appear, many college administrators attack the situation with the zeal worthy ofaPravda editor. 
There is certainly no dearth of stories regarding sup­pression of the college press. One year ago this month distribution of the DePaul U. student newspaper was delayed for a week by the university administration af· ter the newspaper's staff dct1ed an order not to cover a campus rape story. 
About the same time, administrators ofthe Allentown College ofSt. Frances de Sales impounded all ofthe stu­dent newspapers because it contained an ad that men­
tioned abortions. 
The Observer 
Design Editor... . ....... Deirdre Murphy 1Jeslg11 Assistant... ...... Troy Illig 
Ken Cerabona Layout Stuff..... ( Reggk, where are you') 7)•pesetters ..................Jim .'>la<.:Lcnnan 
Toni Rutherford News Editor ..... .......... Boh, Kelli, & Tim Copy Editor.. .. ... ...)o:ff Harrington Editorials layout... . .. .. Tim Neely B&T Layout .. Ed Konrady Sports Copy &litor ............. Mike Riccardi Typist........ ............... a pair of hired hands Ad Design ....................... Marilyn R. Larkin ND Day Editor... .. .. Dave Grote SMC Day Editor . ...................... Tari Brown Photographer..... .. ........... Paul Cifarelli Guest Appearances .. Alex da boss, Boner an impatient columnist, Jeb the loser Needless Chris 
But the sun he sets a treacherous pace 
That only a madman would try to erase 
You can race it, you can chase it 
And then you let go . 
The Observer 1USPS 598 9201 ,., published Mo'1day through Fr~day ~nrl o~ hom~ football Silturda ys except dunng exa•n dnd vacat1on penuds The Observer •s published by the students of Notre Da·ne and Sa•nt Mary s Cui lege Subscnpt•ons may be purchased for S25 per vear iSH> per semesten tJy ...-r,t,ng The. Observer P 0 Bo• 0 Notre Da•ne tnd1ana 46556 
The Observer •s a ·ne'Tiber of The Associ8ted Press All reproduct~t•n nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa•d at Nutre Dame lnu,and 46556 
Mike Monk 
Editor in-Chief lnside Thursday 

More recently, the president of Lincoln Univesity in Missouri exercised his dictatorial powers by preventing , the campus newspaper from printing editorials and ar­ticles which would have presented in a negative light. 
Unfortunately, the list of abuses of this guaranteed freedom is seemingly endless. This is all the more reason for The Observer and its readers to fully ap­preciate this rightwhich is practiced every day. The Ob­sen•er is one of a relatively small number of college newspapers in the U.S. that is independent of the ad­ministrati6n or student government. Because we're in­dependent we don't have to worry about having the papers impounded if we print an article critical of Fr. Hcsburgh or Gerry Faust. This is important not only to us, hut it should he signit1cant in your mind also. You should realize that you're getting the story not as a uni­

versity official sees it, but a.~ an interested and hopefully unbiased third party sees it. Hence the title The Ob­server; we observe and report what is happening as 
it occurs. 
Because The Observer is independent it enjoys all of the benet1ts ofthe free press. But at the same time, freedom of the press does not grant us the right to print careless and irrespon­sible driveL The vermin that print the trash included 
within the pages of The Na­tional Enquirer and Hustler Magazine abuse the right of 
freedom of the press with every slimy issue. 
Freedom of the press is a responsibility which The Observer takes very seriously. We make mistakes; we're not infallible. But we also do our best to fult111 our rcsponsi,bditks as a communicator, an entertainer, and a.~ a watchdog over the administration. 
Just a.~ we don't take our freedoms for granted, you a.'i a reader should not take them for granted either. You should not consider the newspaper as solely a source of information. The free press serves you, it helps guaran­tee your individual freedom. Utilize the newspaper to voice your opinion concerning any matter no matter how trivial or signit1cant. Freedom and democracy will thrive as long as we arc free to partake in open debate, with newspapers providing the forum. Get involved in the battle to maintain your rights, redress a wrong or make a point known. You need the newspaper and the newspaper needs you. And what better time to get in­volved than National Newspaper Week' 
:·········Four·~rea;· ·PerformanceS"·..·····~ 
. 
;rri., Nov. 5at 8p.m.-Sat., Nov. 6at 2and 8p.m.-Sun., Nov. 7at 7:30 p.m.~ 

. 
. 
: !Sat.,Mat.~ Sun., Eve. (l.D. required) 
EVITA~.I 
The International Musical Hit ~: 
• 
For ticket information call 234-40441Z1; 
: or write BROADWAY THEATRE LEAGUE .VISI4_ :
• ·.=.··:···: ..•:. ; • 
:........~~9.:~~ ~~-~'!M!.~~I.~~~.~~ ••••••~.~ ••••: 
-------------------~--------~------------------~------------------~--------------~-------------------------------------. 
The Observer Thursday, October 14, 1982 -page 3 
Keenan -Stanford 
Two dorms celebrate anniversary 
By CATHY PAX ford described the situation. "The a month latt:r, also is preparing a News Staff relationship is now more a com­celebration for next month. An an­radeship. When I first came, to call it niversary Mass will be celebrated by 
Twenty-five years ago, Notre a rivalry would be putting it mildly." Father Michael Murphy, the firs .t rec­
Dame upperclassmen were enjoying There is still a spirited interhall tor ofKeenan Hall, on November 21. 
all the modern conveniences of athletic rivalry bet~veen the two Other events still being planned 
dorm life. dorms, he added. include a reception with Keenan 
They lived in Keenan and Stanford Keenan rector Father David Gar­Hall Fellows, professors and others 
Halls where rooms seemed rick "never dreamed" he would who have become especially close 
luxurious compared with other assume that position when he lived to Keenan Hall over the years. Many 
dorms that did not furnish matching in Keenan 20 years ago. have helped in the production ofthe 
draperies and bedspreads. The biggest change he has noted Keenan Revue. 
Built-in cabinets, single beds, is the greater sense of community Keenan Hall was donated by Mr. 
desks, chairs, and bulletin hoards. that the dorm now enjoys as it no and Mrs. James F. Keenan of Fort 
Even a new television lounge. longer is only a freshman dorm as it Wayne, Ind. in memory of their son 
Today, Keenan and Stanford resi­was at the time. llntil I 0 years ago, who died shortly before he began at­
dents remember their past as they Keenan and Stanford both housed tendance at Notre Dame. Keenan 
plan jubilee celebrations com­only freshmen. The ratio between was a 1913 graduate of Notre Dame 
memorating the twenty-fifth an­classes in the dorms is now fairly and was the owner ofseveral hotels. 
niversary of their halls' dedications. equal. Both Stanford and Keenan Halls 
Father Edmund Joyce, University Father Michael Murphy, Keenan's were designee\ by the architectural 
executive vice president, will be the first rector and head of the Earth firm of Ellerbe and Co., of St. Paul, 
principle celebrant in a con­Science Department, also noticed a Minn. that also designed many other 
celebrated Mass Sunday in the Stan­change in the Keenan student. Notre Dame buildings including 
ford Hall Chapel at 9 p.m. Joyce also "Students had shorter hair then. O'Shaughnessy Hall and the new 
celebrated Stanford's dedication They all looked like ROTC students, Stepan Chemistry Hall. 
Mass twenty-five years ago. but they weren't." 
Other dedication festivities in­Keenan and Stanford have already 
clude the blessing of the chapel by become a part of the Notre Dame 
Archbishop of Philadelphia John tradition, though only celebrating 
.. .Search 
O'Hara, and a dedication dinner at their twenty-fifth anniversary. the Morris Inn. Murphy commented, "I know a Stanford is planning a twenry-fifth couple of students that I had as rec­
continuedfrom page 1 
anniversary "Screw Your tor at Keenan Hall that have sons sistenr in his search for information, Roommate," scheduled for Novem­living there now." 
he responded, "Because it's my nep­ber 6, as well as the showing of a All Notre Dame students are hew. Also, it's only a matter of timejubilee film series. The first film of invited to join in the jubilee Masses before (one of your relatives) willthis series will be "Shake Down the in the dorm chapel. The normal I 0 be struck down the same way. We'reThunder" on Monday, Oct. 18. p.m. Stanford Mass will be cancelled making a stand now. And I'm goingA .!though Keenan and Stanford due to the celebration of the 9 pm. 
to stay involved in the fight against share a common lobby and chapel, anniversary Mass. 
drunk drivers for a long time to
they are considered two different Stanford Hall was donated in 1957 dorms. There is a close interaction in memory of Grattan T. Stanford, a come." between the six hundred students member ofthe Board ofLay Trustees Retti also said he would work living in them. at Notre Dame and a founder of the closely with a new student group 
Brother Viator Grzeskowiak, who 
Sinclair Oil Company. forming at Notre Dame, Students is in his eighth year as rector ofStan-Keenan Hall, which was dedicated Against Drunk Driving. 
High schooleffort 
Recruitingprogratn underUJay 
By MARK BOENNIGHAUSEN dergraduates. Most high schools Students then go back to their StaffReporter report that the students are "very high schools during Christmas and mature, responsible, and informed," October break and meet with usc. Washington said. seniors interested in attending 
A football school? Perhaps. USC is very helpful in areas where Notre Dame. 
But at Notre Dame, the initials Notre Dame draws few applicants. Students in the program, when 
stand for the Undergraduate Schot>ls Washington said that in a state such they return home, usually have ap­
Committee, a volunteer program or­as Montana, the program has helped pointments with the high schools 
ganized by the admissions office that "quite a bit" in increasing the num­they graduated from, but sometimes 
uses current Notre Dame students ber ofapplicants. visit other high schools nearby. 
for recruitment of high school The program begins each school One problem that the program 
seniors. year with advertisement for new does have is in monitoring the visits 
The philosophy of the program, volunteers. When the program first to the high schools. said Washing­
according to Phyllis Washington, began in 1978, it was only open to ton. Students involved the program 
the admissions counselor in charge Notre Dame Scholars, but since are supposed to file a report of their 
of the operation, is that since the ad­1979 it has been opened to all visit with the admissions office, but 
missions' staff possesses a limited qualified applicants. Washington said many students for­
amount of personnel and travel Washington said that almost any get to return the report. She noted 
time,. a greater number of student who applies is accepted and that the short time between the 
perspective Notre Dame students at the present time there are he­beginning ofthe school year and Oc­
can be reached through the use of tween 150 and 200 students in­tober break does cause some 
undergraduates. volved. scheduling problems. 
It's also easier, she said, for high Once students are accepted into USC may become a feeder 
school students to relate to ami ask the program, they attend a training program into the Alumni Schools 
more informal questions of people session with the admissions coun­Committee. Wa~hington said he 
doser to their own age. selor who is responsible for recruit­thinks that if the students show an 
The program has been "very suc­ment in their home state. The interest in recruiting high school 
cessful" said Washington and she has counselor gives intructions on how students a~ undergraduates, they 
not received any complaints from the students should make their pitch will show the same interest after 
any ofthe high schools visited by un-for Notre Dame. they have graduated. 

\\'coffer the opportunity for Teaching 
and Pastoral :'olinist~· with life In community. 
We are men seeking God through 
t shared life t shared prayer t shared ministry 
This Is our eballenge: 
For more Information write to: ReY. Gene Gries, O.Praem. Vocation Director St. Xorbert .\bhe\· De Pere, Wiscon~in MilS 
'"---·----------. 
~ainc  .~~--:.:;£ri~f·~~ :t.'·.~"t';1~:·.ii~~  ~·J_.\i1ci~~~~.b-~\7~·)J!  t;;ta~w  ~·~  
ci~­ ---.,.,!~  tf't:'"~'~-­ ~~:'~  ~~:~-~Ei'  ;:'':' -~tutt'-·~~  ":""":,.A./.tf",_.• '-:·:,.,.:-=--_  
.·\l!l'  '· ·.,mpict.-cl llil(h "-choo! _ _______ Collqlc  


' 

----------------------------------~-----------------------~--------------------------------------------------~-­The Observer Thursday, October 14, 1982 -page 4 

the independent labor union Solidarity by the Gdansk sb ipyard Tuesday on the second day of government. (AP Photo) protests by workers following the outlawing of A crowd is shown outside the closedgates ofthe 
Twooptions 
Who ticket mix-upcauses problems tor River City 
By MICHOLE MADDEN 
News Staff 
The Who concert has come and gone, and River City Records is still feeling the repercussions from its ticket package mix-up. 
Two weeks ago, River City Records sold 280 ticket packages to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents. Each package included a Who concert ticket, roundtrip transporta­tion to Chicago, and beer on the bus ride -all for 549 cash, 
The Saturday before the concert, however, River City Records an­nounced that its ticket connections had not come through, and the trip was to be canceled. 
Pete Kernan, River City's proprietor and a Notre Dame graduate, has since offered students two options for reimbursement: either a (cash) refund, or a similar package for the December Who con-' cert at no additional cost regardless of price increases. 
Kernan thinks that student response has been positive, saying that he has received few complaints. 
Since many students have indi­cated that they are willing to wait for the December concert, he did not make a statement as to what would 
....._---.. ..............·--....\ Nearly 4000strike over J Solidarityoutlawing 
be done with unclaimed refunds. 
Kernan said that the ticket nix-up was an isolated incidence, and that it should not affect his business with ND/SMC students. 
The students seem to have mixed feelings about the situation. Al­though most contacted by The Ob­server were dissappointed about not being able to attend the concert, many indicate a willingness to do future business with River City Records. 
There are, however, a number of students who are angry about the situation. One student said, "Not on­ly wa..o; I guaranteed a ticket that I 
WARSAW, Poland (AP)-Almost 4,000 Poles demonstrated in two southern cities yesterday after two days ofstreet clashes in the northern seaport of Gdansk over the outlaw­ing ofSolidarity. 
But most striking workers were reported back on the job in the em­battled Gdansk shipyard. 
In the southern city ofNowa Huta, riot police used tear gas and water cannon to rout 3,000 steelworkers who tried to march with Polish flags to the local Roman Catholic church, witnesses reported. The sources said the crowd attacked some public buildings, but they provided no details. 
The huge Nowa Huta church was 
built in defiance of communist au­
thorities by then-Cardinal Karol 
Wojtyla, who now is Pope John Paul 
II. 
In Wroclaw, about 700 people taunted police with shouts of "Gestapo!" as officers detained about 30 youths, said an Associated Press reporter in that southern city. No violence was reported, and the 
never got, I wasn't even informed of the cancellation until two days before the concert. I would never get involved with them again." 
When asked if any policy changes were to be made, Kernan explained that his ticket sources had been reliable in the past, and he an­ticipates no future problems in obtaining tickets. 
Although the final effects of the mix-up are not readily identifiable. a lot of students are waiting to see if River City Records comes through with tickets for the December Who concert. 
crowd dispersed peacefully, he said, 
Workers at two Wroclaw factories -a railroad equipment and a pump plant -began a strike but went back to their jobs after "discussions" with authorities, the official news media in Wroclaw reported. 
Poland's latest round of distur­
bances erupted Monday in Gdansk 
to protest )a..<;t Friday's outlawing of 
the independent labor union 
Solidarity and the impositicn ofmar­
tiallaw 10 months ago. 
An estimated 10,000 workers struck for eight hours Monday and Tuesday in shipyards in Gdansk and neighboring Gdynia, and riot police battled protesters in Gdansk after each work stoppage, witnesses said, 
A ham radio operator in Gdansk was quoted as saying two protesters were killed, but this could not be confirmed, 
The authorities Tuesday militarized the Gdansk shipyard ­birthplace of Solidarity in 1980 ­and warned workers arriving for the first shift yesterday they faced pos­sible five-year prison terms ifthey vi­olated military rules. They were told their contracts had been invalidated, some were fired and others were drafted on the spot into the army, workers reported. 
Most workers did their jobs yes­terday, the returning journalists reported, 
The threatened five-year sen­tences are more moderate than nor­mal punishment for violating military rules, which could be death. 
Earlier, a Western correspondent in the Baltic port said witnesses reported fresh riots had broken out yesterday near the shipyard. But later reports from Western cor­respondents said there had been no rioting and the city was calm. The Foreign Ministry said reports of un­rest in Gdansk were false, 
Dine among the antiques and enjoy our view of the new downtown! 
Reservations Appreciated 234..9000 121 South Niles South Bend 
-ACCOUNTING MAJORS:-­
Are you wondering whether to join an accounting firm where you will work closely with engagement partners or a large national firm with international scope and influence? 
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS OCTOBER 18, 1982 OCTOBER 19, 1982 
Main HurdnvJn invites you to explore the beat of both worlds. 
M·~-l..!HurdmanEQUAL OPPOR
..T.UN_, ..Y··.E..M
"' ·~T
__ ..PLOYER 
KMG 1\hnH·IJ \l.un(;oerdder·
o( lnil·rn.ttJon.•l hrnl 
Certified Ptblic /\cccwiants 
Main Hurdman 
invites you to join both. 
Main Hurdman. a founding member of Klynveld Main Goerdeler, one of the Jargeat public aecountinc organizations in the world, offere diverse client enragements and all the opportunities for accelerated profeuional growth that a new staff accountant could ask for. With practice offices in 80 U.S. cities and 70 foreign countries, Main Hurdman has all the research capabilities, 
coordinated marketing strengths, and comprehensive educational programs 
of an international firm, while providing close etient contact, frequent partner/ 
ata!f interaetion, informal working atmo.ephere, and rapid advancement to 
position• of reaponoibility that todaya professionals seelr.. 
Stock marketrallies strongly 
NEW YORK (AP) -The stock market resumed its powerful rally yesterday, propelling the DowJones industrials average to a 17-month high in the second busiest trading day in New York Stock-Exchange history. 
Energy issues led the buying binge in the fifth straight day in which more than 100 million shares changed hands on the Big Board. 
More than three stocks rose in 
price for every one that fell on the 
NYSE, with 417 issues rising to 52­
week highs while just three fell to 
new lows. 
STUDENT RECEPTION SPEAKER: RICHARD S. HICKOK, 
CHAIRMAN OCTOBER 17, 1982 7 P.M. NOTRE DAME ROOM IN THE MORRIS INN 
The Dow Jones average of 30 in­percent, dustrial stocks, which fell 9.11 Big Board volume totaled 139.80 points Tuesday, shot up 11.40 points million shares, up from 126.36 mil­to end the day at 1,015.08. It had lion Tuesday and second only to last been even higher at midafternoon, Thursday's 147.07 million. 
when the blue-chip average was up more than 23 points. 
The advance was a sharp reversal from the 5.52 point decline in the opening 30 minutes of activity and was the highest finish since the average stood at 1,016.93 on April 28, 19M2. 
During the last two months, the 
widely followed average has 
rocketed 238.16 points, or by 30.7 
Nationwide turnover in NYSE-listed 
issues, including trades in those 
stocks on regional exchanges and in 
the over-the-counter market. 
totaled 159.24 million shares. 
Energy issues dominated the 
active list on the NYSE. Exxon rose 
to 31 1, Schlumberger jumped 2 ..to 
44 ., Atlantic Richfield added 2 (to 
49), Getty rose 2 (to 62) in trading 
that included a block of 850,000 
shares crossing at 62, and Dresser In­
dustries picked up 1 (to 17). 
Standard & poor's index of400 in­
dustrials rose 2.72 to 152.82, and 
S&P's 500-stock composite index 
was up 2.27 at 136.71. 
AMR, formerly known as American Airlines, topped the active list as of the 4 p.m. EDT close of NYSE, unchanged at 1 7, in trading that included a block of 2 million shares changing hands at 16 (a share). Later. a block of 200,000 shares crossed at 1 7 and a block of 100,000 shares crossed at 17. 
Teledyne continued to surge, rising 5 to 120, despite reporting earnings slipped to S3.96 a share in the third quarter from S4.93 a year ago. Options to buy or sell the com­. pany's stock expire on tomorrow, 
adding to the volatility ofthe heavily 
traded glamour issue. 
The NYSE's index of all its listed common stock rose 1.35 to 78.30. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index was up 7.79 at 314.79. 
The Observer Thursday, October 14, 1982 -page 5 
Hartproposesnewveteran la-ws 
By RYAN VER BERKMOES 
Managing Editor 
Veterans will continue being treated like "second class citizens," said Senator Gary Hart ( D-Colo. ), until legislation he has introduced in the Senate is signed into law. 
Hart, who was on campus yester­
day was referring to the same issue 
raised by three military veterans at a 
press conference held in South Bend 
on Monday, where the three urged 
students not to register for the draft 
until veterans are allowed judicial 
review of benefit decisions by the 
Veterans Administration. 
The only recourse open to 
veterans questioning the amount of 
compensation they receive from the 
VA now is to appeal to the VA. A law 
passed betore World War II denies 
Veterans the right to appeal VA deci­
sions in the federal courts. 
William La Bre, a constitutional 
Iawver from Edwardsburg, Michi­
gan: said, "the denial of judicial 
review to veterans is an appalling abridgement of due process guaranteed to every citizen in this country by the constitution. Veterans disatisfied with VA deci­sions currently have no other legal recourse available to them." 
Veterans are allowed to have legal council represent them in their ap­peals to the VA, but a 1924law limits the amount a lawyer may charge in VA appeal cases to S 10. In the last 20 years, the number of claimants represented by lawyers before the Board ofVeterans Appeals has never exceeded 2 percent. 
Hart's bill, 5.349, would allow lawyers involved in appeals cases to charge up to S750 for theiT services. 
Currently, the assistance ofa large network of Veteran's Service Of­ficers is available to VA claimants. Service Officers are volunteers working for Veteran's groups such as the Veterans ofForeign Wars and the American Legion, who aid the veteran in the appeal. 
An aid to Senator Hart, Bill Holen, says that "the service officers are a good system of afti:>rdable help." Holen added that many Vietnam Veterans "don't fit into a system that consists mostly of World War II veterans." 
Anumber ofveterans have recent­ly made efforts to receive compensa­tion for injuries they allege they received from exposure to Agent Orange, an herbicide used widely during the Vietnam War. Another group is claiming injuries resulting from exposure to radiation during atomic warfare tests conducted at Nevada deserts during the 1950's. During these tests, troops were or­
dered into the hlast area to determine the effects of nuclear fall­out. 
The VA has so far denied all claims 
of injury from Veterans involved in 
these incidents. The right of judicial 
review, however, would allow these 
controversial claims to be heard in 
Federal Courts. 
Opponents worry that the num­ber of veterans appeals taken to Federal court would clog the judi­cial system. Strom Thurmond, chair­man of the Senate Judicial Committee, in a speech given to his fellow Senators, said the right of judicial review "might impose an unnecessarily heavy burden on the Federal court system." The bill has received bipartisan support in 
·Seven NDstudentsreceive Memorial Scholarship 
translate that into action."
By MIKE LEPRE 
Cuneen served on many local
SeniorStaffReporter 
committees, and also attended meetings with both city and govern­Seven Notre Dame students were ment representatives who dealthonored for community serviCe at with various city-wide public issues.
the James F. Andrews Memorial "This was truly a great opportunityScholarship dinner last Thursday. 
for me," said Cuneen, "because itThe students, working in com­exposed me to the type ofwork thatmunity service projects across the Iwould like to continue doing in thecountry, were participants in the future."
Alumni Summer Service program. 
The Andrews scholarships them­As members of this group, each selves were first awarded in 1981,student, who served as a volunteer and are named in honor ofJames F.
attending to the needs ofthe poor in Andrews, a graduate of Notre Damevarious cities, received a S1,000 who died two years ago.
scholarship toward their tuition. 
the Senate. The official Republican stance, however, is that passage could result in up to S600 million a year in added attorny fees. Holen calls these claims "ludicrous." 
Steve Marozsan, one of the veterans who called Monday's press conference, is a strong supporter of the draft "once we (veterans) get our constitutional rights to judicial review. 
Legislation concerning judicial review of VA benefits was first in­troduced by Hart in 1976. Since then it has passed twice in the Senate. It has been killed in the House of Representatives once. The latest version is pending before the lame duck session ofCongress to be held after the November elections. Holen is not optimistic of th bill's chances of passage before the cur­rent Congressional session ends. 
'Til keep reintroducing the bill 
until it passes," Hart said. 
"The VA is the third largest government agency budgetwise. Seventy-six percent of the VA's budget of S2~ billion goes out in benefits. 
"In human terms it is tragic. I don't think it is right for the govern­ment to deny judicial review to ~0 million veterans," said Holen. 
...Hart 
continuedfrompage 1 
politician there is some hazard in launching out on this uncharted course, but as a citizen, I feel I must. For as a nation we must think anew." 
Hart thinks that the industrial age produced a new dicipline: economics. He suggested "statecraft" to describe economics as the overall foundation for govern­ment and public policy. "Statecraft," he said, "is an attempt to make na­tional policies sensitive to deeper 
motiv,~tions than a desire for a pay 
check."' 
Hart defined statecraft as an op­
portunity for creativity, individual 
growth, education and autonomy or 
individuality. In order to achieve 
these basic needs of statecraft, he 
said, "we must weave certain 
themes into public policy." 
The most important component of statecraft, according to Hart, is education. "Education is essentially the classical education, intended to give us understanding ofour culture and our values." 

In most cases the funds for this project were provided by the Alumni Club from the city in which the volunteer worked. The James 
Domino's Pizza & 
Andrews Scholarship Fund, however. provides either full 
United Way
scholarships or scl")olarship supple­ments if the Alumni Club cannoc: provide the money on its own. 
Domino's will donate50¢ to UnitedWay 
This year's scholarship winners paticipated in ·eight-week-long 
for every ~zza sold. Oct. f}h Sf4th 
projects ranging from camp 
counseling to serving the poor and elderly. 
So buy L\Jmino's Pizza &Help UnitedWayl 
"The Summer Service Project is really a neat wav to do something 
beneficial for the community, while helping to pay for college at the same time," commented one 
Interested in LawSchool?
scholarship winner, sophomore Carrie Altergott. Altergott worked at 
A representative of 
Regis House. a Hispanic Community Center in Los Angeles. Serving as both a day camp volun­
Creighton University 
teer and a teen group leader, Alter­gott said her experiences at Regis House "could easily be related to 
School of Law 
other experiences in life and in this respect will stay with me >r a very 
will be on campus Oct. 18, 1982
long time." Another Andrews S• :olarship 
to interview interested students 
winner, senior government major Gary Cuneen, n9ted that his work 
For information, Please contact with the Philadt,Iphia Council of Neighborhood Organizations .ugave; 
Evelyne Major me a chance to apply knowle.qge.' that. I'd received in class .and 
Placement.Bureau , 239-5200 
.,.,il'ttST --·· 
Nobel Peace Prize Winner Alva Myrdal, a Swedish disarmament expert, smiles happily with roses in her hand in her house in Djurasholm, a Stockholm suburb, yesterday minutes after she heard she had won the prize. ( AP Photo) 
********************************** Enjoy your lastweekendm campusbefore breakat 
TheNazz 
*9 -10:30 * Thur.I0/14•lewisHaii"Ta1~tNik'•Q>enStage 10:30-12 
Fri.IO/IS•BobMarooich &Mary Beth Hocks• Par Three 10:30-? Sat. 10/16 *StEU? Wimmer* Open Stage 10:30-? ********************************** 
...11•==="Papa & Mama Do The Cooking"Z===~ Francesco's Famiglia 277-6155 Restaurant 277-6156 
featuring 
FOUR SEASONS PIZZA 
Tile Original Southern Recipe 
Lasagna, Home-made Spaghert1, All Varieties of Sandwiches Chicken Cacciatori, Veal Parmigiana 
(Francesco was chejfor Holy Cross Fathers jar 21 yrs.) 
16:36 N. Ironwood 
...._____..;"WE DELIVER"·~;:;;;;;;;;zt' 
\!:===-.Proprietor: Francesco Catanzariti 
Sweetest Dny &GRE' Snt., Oct. 16 
one sw~etheott rose &fer 
&baby'sbteath &fteede ONLY Sl Sign up in dining hall during Wed. dinner or dial m-O-m-s 

DON'T MISS • •
mlSSlDl 
The Author: THOMAS HAUSER Thursday. October 14 8:00pm LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
The Observer Thursday, October 14, 1982-page 6 
Malloy speaks on politics, Church 

By MIKE MAZZOLI 
News Staff 
Liberation theology, a significant 
reformist movement in the Catholic 
Church in Latin America, is an im­
portant, though controversial, ex­
pression of the Chur.ch's role as 
transformer of society, said Father 
Edward Malloy, professor of theol­
ogy at Notre Dame, in his lecture 
"Politics and the Church" delivered 
last evening. 
The "transformist" Church, as· 
described by Malloy, cannot wholly 
divorce itself from society, nor 
shouid it become the property and 
guardian of the status quo, but 
should instead seek to reform 
society by "bringing Christian 
values to bear on specific issues in 
culture" and then attempting to im­
prove those conditions. 
The theology of liberation adv­ocates such a commitment in Christian life; however, its affinity with certain leftist political move­ments in Latin America has made it a matter of great controversy within the Catholic Church. 
The dominant question in con­temporary discussions of the Church's role in politics, Malloy said, is whether there is an "inevitable connection" between Christian belief and democracy, whether Christians can accept the validity of a Marxist, totalitarian, or aristocratic society." 
He pointed out that the Church has survived and even flourished in non-democratic contexts, and con­cluded that the Church can accept forms other than democracy and still perform its role; a totalitarian regime which would prohibit social improvement and religious freedom could not be endorsed, but democracy is not the sole context within which the Church may thrive. 
The harshest criticism of libera­tion theology, Malloy said, is the ex­tent to which it does not condemn violence as a means toward social change. Malloy, however, allowed that under a strict construction of the Church's "just war" teaching certain forms of violence may sometimes be used. · albeit "mournfully, regretfully, and only as a last resort." 
The fact alone that liberation theology does not entirely disavow violence does not necessarily oppose it to Church teaching. He pointed out, however, that the Church must be careful to prevent a merely political or economic struggle from drawing the Church into an unjust war. 
Malloy, who was the guest of the Thomas More Society in its Contem­porary Issues series, emphasized that the theology of liberation has grown in the particular context of Latin America, and perhaps cannot be wholly employed outside Latin America. 
Malloy noted that the Church has the responsibility of transforming the social, political, and economic order, and since the Gospels offer no precise plan for carrying this out, the theology of liberation provides one important means of that "transforming." 
Nobel Peace Prize 
Peace crusaders receive award 
FatherEdward Malloy, Notre Dameprofessor oftheology, lectured on the Church's role in transforming society through "Liberation Theology" last nigbt.(Photo by Paul Cifarelli) 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 
t  The Observer  t  
t IS acce.ptmG appltcattons ~oRItu€s. n•Ght CopvEbrtoR anb  tI  
t Uum. anb Sunbay Oay €b1t9Rs.  t  
t  Ul€S€aR€paibJ)osJtJons.  t  

L-~~~~~~m~-23!~o_:_j 
Wygant Floral CO.I~c. 327 Lincolnway 
232-3354 ..CJ'Qowettg {;oh aQQ occagLottg ~ ~ Come in and browse 
Orban Plungcz 
Deadline: Friday, Oc:tobvr 1 5 at 3:00pm 
Applications availablv from Campus Ministry offices or your hall rvp. 
OSLO, Norway (AP) -Two longtime crusaders for world dis­armament-Alva Myrdal ofSweden and Alfonso Garcia Robles ofMexico -were awarded the 1982 Nobel Peace Prize yesterday. 
The Norwegian Nobel Committee 
said it selected the pair in hopes of 
spurring the growing worldwide 
movement against nuclear arms. 
"Millions ofpeople are joining the fight against nuclear weapons," the 80-year-old Mrs. Myrdal said in Stockholm after the announcement. "I hope that after we have received the peace prize, even greater num­bers will stand up in the fight." 
Garcia Robles, a former Mexican foreign minister, described the award as "perhaps a little late but welcome recognition of the impor­tance and the urgency" of disarma­ment efforts. 
He spoke with reporters in Geneva, Switzerland, where he leads the Mexican delegation to the United Nations disarmament talks. 
Both Ml;i>. Myrdal, a sociologist as well as a former diplomat and politician, and the 71-year-old Gar­cia Robles have put years ofwork in­to the U.l\. process of arms control negotiations based in Geneva. 
She headed the Swedish delega­tion to the Geneva talks in 1962-73, and Garcia Robles has been chief Mexican delegate to the United Na­tions in Geneva since 1977. The Nobel Committee also took special note of his key role in negotiating a 1967 treaty declaring Latin America 
a nuclear-free zone. 
Alva Myrdal and her husband, economist-sociologist Gunnar Myr­dal, are the fourth couple to both win Nobel Prizes. He shared the economics prize in 1974. Garcia Robles is the first Mexican to win a Nobel prize in the 81-year history of the awards. 
The prize carries a stipend of 1.1 5 
million Swedish kronor, equivalent 
to SIS7,000, which the two will 
split. 
The disarmament campaigners 
were among a record 79 candidates 
-60 individuals and 19 organiza­
tions -nominated for the prize. 
Other candidates included detained Polish labor leader Lech Walesa and U.S. Middle East mediator Philip C. Hamr,. 'B.ut . veteran observers of the Nobel selection process had considered them unlikely winners-Walesa be­cause the award would appear politically motivated, and Habib be­cause the Lebanon situation is still unstable. 
Alfred Nobel, the Swede who in­vented dynamite and who endowed the prizes in his will, stipulated that the peace award was to go those who promote brotherhood, work for abolition and reduction of armies, or initiate peace con­ferences. 
Last year's prize was awarded to the office of the U.N. High Commis­sioner for Refugees. Other winners in recent years have included Ar­gentine human rights advocate Al­fonso Perez Esquivel, Mother Teresa of Calcutta, India, and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin and the 
late Egyptian President Anwar Sadat. The peace prize was the second of the six annual Nobel prizes to be an­nounced. The medicine prize was awarded Monday in Stockholm to Briton John R. Vane and Swedes Sune K. Bergstrom and Bengt I. Samuelsson for their work in hormone research. 
V.C. ex-interns' holds meeting for those interested 
By CINDY COLDIRON 
Senior StaffRejmrter 
A group of Notre Dame students have formed a service for students interested in working in Washington 
D.C. during the summer. The key student organizer of the group Rob Powere said the newly formed group seeks to help those students interested in internships by providing them with information on how to go about applying. 
Powere said the group will also of fer information on what it is like to live and work in Washington. 
Composed of a nucleus of about I 5 students who have had inter­nships in Washington. the group, The Washington D.C. Ex-Interns, hopes to expand its membership to include 20 to 30 former interns. 
Ameeting will be held tonight at ~ in Room 2D in LaFortune for Notre Dame and Saint :'>1ary's students in­terested in obtaining information on Washington D.C. internships for this 
summer. 
Dean Jacobs, a Notre Dame stu­dent who worked in the office of Senator Howard Metzenbaum of Ohio, said the group is "trying to pool all our resources together and share our political knowledge with those students who wish to become summer interns." 
Tricia Hiler, who worked with the National Republican Congressional Committee the past two summers, thinks that the purpose of the group is mainly informational. 
"If a student does get an inter· nship, he will also need information on how to get around in an un­familiar city, so we will also aid him in this area," she said. 
f------ND Cleveland Rd. 
<~i.J.·,·-·: •• · 
Business & Technology_Th_ursd_ay,o_ctob_er 19_82_Pa_ge
1_4, 
Engineering Update 
Astrotech, a new company, plans.to build a 
plant in Titusville. Florida that will test and prepare satellites for launching from the nation's space shuttles, its president said. Robert Goss said the satellite test operations could begin byJanuary 1984. The plant would employ about I 0 technicians who would work with testing specialists from the firms that own the satellites, Goss said. Until now. such services have been provided only by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Goss predicted his firm could do the job for about a third cheaper than NASA. -AP · 
all Street Update _, 
The stock marketresumed its powerful rally yester­day, propelling the Dow Jones industrials average to a 17-month high in the second busiest trading day in New York Stock Exchange history. Energy issues led the buying binge in the fifth straight day in which more than 100 million shares changed hands on the Big Board. More than three stocks rose in price for every one that fell on the NYSE, with 417 issues rising to 52-week highs while just three fell to new lows. The Dow jones average of 30 industrial stocks, which fell 9.11 points Tuesday, shot up 11.40 points to end the day at I ,0 15.08. It had been even higher at midafternoon, when the blue­chip average was up more than 23 points. The advance was a sharp reversal from the 5.52 point-decline in the opening :'>0 minutes of activity and was the highest tinish since the average stood at 1,016.93. During the last two months, the widelv followed averag• has rocketed 238.16 points, or by 30. ~ pern:nt -AP 
SUMMER PROGRAMS 
lONDON ROME
********** 
* May 17 ·June 16  *June 13 ·July 12  
*Traoel in Ireland  * Traoel in France  
Scotland~ France  Germany~ Switzerland  

Courses in Art, Business, Education, History, Italian, Musicand Philosophy. 
Informational Meeting-Oct.l8 7:00pm Rm 232 Moreau, SMC For Further Info. Call Prof.A.R. Black 4460a-272-3726 
NOW OPEN 
Serving Polish Style & Italian 
PIZZA . 
C~~~y 272•8030 DELIVERY 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK .4•00·11 :30 FRIDAY & SATURDAY UNTIL 1:30 A.M. 
10o/o off with Stude-ntI.D. Lo~ ,jlolish ltlrittc£ 
..u,...... ~'a ltJ. 1r 
~,~_,,:'~, 1rt zze r t a 
~ 18061 SOUTH BEND AVENUE (112 BLOCK WEST OF IRONWOOD ON STATE AOA::> 23 
Attention Seniors !!! 
Leo Burnet1i Advenising Agency 
is sponsoringaone hour presention onthe 
adverUsm, industry tonight in the 
CCI AuditorillDlat 7:80 
• Allare encouraged M aUencl. Durin& the day, don't forget wtalk M the Leo 
representatives who wW be taking part iD the Arts ~ Letters _ career Day, all day todayiD the La ronueBallroom. 
MustangGT, Thunderbird 
Ford introduces 1983autoline 
By BRUCE OAKLEY 
Systems Manager 
Representatives of Ford Motor Co. introduced the company's 1983 line ofautomobiles yesterday morn­ing at a press conference in the South Bend Marriott Hotel. 
Paul Czamanske, Nationar Market Representation Manager ofthe Ford Division. claimed that domestic automakers have "given Americans an excuse to buy foreign cars" in recent years through lack of atten­company has instituted employee involvement programs and quality control measures in recent years. 
Paul Douglas, a UAW representa­tive from the company's plant in In­dianapolis, briefed area media representatives and Ford dealers at the conference on the effectiveness of the voluntary employee programs. 
"The importance of these programs is not in the number of employees involved, but in the feeling of teamwork that is 

The Ford Motor Company introduced the 1983 Mustang to the South Bend market yesterday. New management techniques and changes in design are.behind Ford's new thrust to edge out the foreign market. (Photo courtesy Ford Motor Company) 
tion to detail and quality control. generated," Douglas said. "The bar­
The 1983 models demonstrate riers between hourly employees and 
Ford's intention to reverse that · management are being broken 
trend by delivering quality, perfor­down." 
mance cars to the prospective The employee involvement 
buyer, Czamanske said. programs are aimed at boosting per­
Ford, it seems, has indeed ded­formance and morale of the hourly icated itself to producing better worker by giving him a greater in­cars. The Mustang GT goes from fluence over his work environment. zero to 60 mph faster than any other According to Douglas, the production car; the new Thunder­program has meant that workers bird has perhaps the best function more effectively because aerodynamic design ofany car, with ihey take more pride in their work the lowest drag coefficient (a -the rate of "reject" parts produc­measure of wind resistance and an tion at the Indianapolis plant has important factor in gas mileage per­been cut in half in the 18 months formance) on the market; and the since the involvement groups were initiated. 
And Czamanske pointed out that one independent study showed quality in 1982 models up 48 per­cent over 1980 levels. 
The improvement in quality has helped Ford in its struggle to cut in­to General Motors' lion's share ofthe. world automotive market. In m·;wy · areas ofthe country, Ford is outstrip­ping Chevrolet in new car sales for the first time in decades. 
The Escort, manufact'ar.ed in Europe as well as domestically~-is the world's best selling auto, and the F Series trucks are the world's best selling vehicles. , , 
<.:zamanske cited Ford's re­dedication to quality and it's deci­sion to hold the line on price increases -the '83 models cost an average of only S40 more than the ·_, '82 versions -as important factors in the company's improving sales picture. 
"Japanese automakers can put a car on our shores for ! 1000 to S 1 500 less than we can make it, but they have no secrets to making bet­ter cars," he said. "We can still make a better car in America. We're going to be the best in the world." 
Ford executives see the next few years as a crucial period in corporate history, and have set the designers to work on aerodynamics and electronics, and several new gas­saving and safety features will be 
appearing  in  the  next  few  model  
years.  
Czamanske  claimed  that  the  

automotive and housing industries can lead the United States out of its current economic woes. Ford's in­novations in . design and manage­ment techniques, and its extensive promotional campaign 12 5 presentations like yesterday's are scheduled across the country -ap­pear to be a strong step in that direc­tion. 
Growing by acquisition 
Manymergerlessonstobelearned 
ByJOHN CUNNIFF think the way to "grow" a company AP Business Anai)'SI is to create products, develop them and then nurture their markets, and 
Among the lessons to be learned. others who think it is quicker, easier from the carnivorous behavior of and more rewarding to grow by ac­corporations, as in the quest by Ben­quisition. dix and :\tartin Marietta to devour The difference is sometimes 
. each other (and then lose assets to summed up by saying there are Allied), these are among the most those who watch over the store and important: know everyone and everything in it, 
There are top managers who and there are those who like to buy 
Attention:ND/SMC Students 
Logan Center 
Will be collecting 
Arizona Football Tickets 
******************************* 
in the Dning Hall 
Please give all unneeded tix 
and make aLogan Child Smile !!! ***************** 
out someone else·s store and use its assets to buy still another. 
While all the executives involved say they are fighting to protect their shareholders, the behavior ex­hibited suggests that shareholder rights lie . far down the list of priorities, the foremost of which is executive ego. 
A merger does not necessarily mean greater benefits for sharehol­ders. Often a company is bought, dis­membered and sold off at no gain. 
Workers seldom benefit. In fact, if an acquired company fits properly into the overall goals and market of the acquiring company it is almost inevitable that jobs will be lost, if on­ly through the elimination of duplication. 
Boards of directors sometimes fail in their fi<.luciarr obligations to protect shareholders. Acquisitions and mergers, especially the un­friendly kind, are very expensive. Shareholders' money is spent ­sometimes with no return. 
There is often no measurable benefit to the country. Production, in fact, may fall, in part because old management flees and leaves ad­ministration to newcomers un­familiar with products, markets, employees, plant and equipment. 
Corporations that are acquired at great expense often are found un­suitable after a few years, and are sold off in whole or in part. Acquisi­tions are often front-page news. Divestitures, less glamorous, are of­ten silently conducted. 
Thursday, October 14, 1982 -page 8
The Observer 

Giacobini I Zinner in '85 
NASAplansto catchfirst com.et 
WASHINGTON (AP) The said the cost to the space agency will nucleus with a long, luminous tail space agency has found a bargain­be mostly in modifying tracking that points away from the sun. basement way to beat the Soviets facilities. The more sophisticated Soviet and be the first nation to catch a Redmond said the information and European spacecraft have comet. gained in the U.S. project will be cameras to photograph Halley's 
It won't be Halley's comet; catch­available when the three other comet when it makes its first ap· 
ing up with Halley's would cost countries send their spacecraft to pearance in the solar system in 75 $250 million to $500 million, too Halley's. years. It is expected to be visible expensive for NASA. 
The half-ton International Sun from Earth as it flashes across the Instead, a satellite already in space Earth Explorer spacecraft -ISEE 3, night sky when it makes its approach 
and parked a million miles away will for short -had been in a permanent in early 1986. 
be sent to the comet orbit between earth and the sun The Giacobini/Zinner comet, 
Giacobini/Zinner in September since 1978, measuring electric and which approaches the sun every 13 
1985 -six months before the magnetic field particles. years. will not be visible. Both com· 
Soviets, the French, and Japanese 
Many solar physicists wanted to ets were named after astronomers. send th.ree probes to Halley's. The 
keep it there, performing its original 1SEE 3 has no cameras. But the cost: less than S1. 5 million. 
mission. But they're overruled by measurements it takes interest 
"It will be the first measurements those who wanted to take the oppor­planetary scientists because they 
of a comet and its environment by a tunity to sample a comet. contain primordial material -mat­
spacecraft," said Charles Redmond, If the complicated procedures ter dating back to the birth of the 
a NASA spokesman. 
work, the spacecraft will pass universe. But, he added, the space agency 
through the several-thousand-mile­was not "going out to make a big 
wide tail of the comet on Sept. I I, public splash" about its attempt to 
1985, to within 44 million miles of 
Fire burns 
glean information about the celestial the head. 
bodies, which follow an elliptical or 
Comets are believed to be bodies 
Vermont
of ice, rock and gases that contain 
The magazine Aviation Week & original matter from which the solar Space Technology, which tells about system was formed. When seen, the forest the NASA plan in its current issue. 
parabolic orbit around the sun. 
comets usually have a starlike 
,· 
.. 
,.·. 
-· 
Take Charge At22. 

In most jobs, at 22 care of sophisticated .. you're near the bottom equipment worth of the ladder. millions of dollars. 
In the Navy, at It's a bigger chal­22 you can be a leader. lenge and a lot more After just 16 weeks responsibility than of leadership training, most corporations give you're an officer. You'll you at 22. The rewards 
have the kind of job are bigger, too. There's your education and training prepared a comprehensive package of benefits, you for, and the decision-making au­including special duty pay. The starting thority you need to make the most of it. salary is $16,400-more than most com­
As a college graduate and officer panies would pay you right out of college. candidate, your Navy training is geared After four years, with regular promo­to making you a leader. There is no boot tions and pay increases, your salary will camp. Instead, you receive professional have increased to as much as $29,800. training to help you build the technical As a Navy officer, you grow, through and management skills you'll need as a new challenges, new tests of your skills, 
Navy officer. and new opportunities
r ;:-V-;;;;0;:;-U~T-;----~-;; 1
This training is to advance your edu­
INFORMATION CENTER 
designed to instill P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015 I cation, including the 
confidence by first­D I'm ready to take charge. Tell me more about I possibility of attending
the Navy's officer programs. (I!}G)hand experience. You graduate school while 
I
Nam~--~F~ir~s,-----~~P~Iea-se-P~r~in~t)----~L~a-st---­
learn by doing. On · you're in the Navy.
Address________.Apt. #----­
I
your first sea tour, City·______State·____Zip___ I Don't just take a you're responsible for I I job. Become a Navy
Age_+College/University 
managing the work of :j:Year in College •GP"'------officer, and take charge. up to 30 men and the 1&Major/Minor . I Even at 22. .-·:.,·-~· 
I Phone Number 
I 
I 
!Area Code) Best Time to Call This is for general recruitment information. You do not have to fur· 
I 
nish any of the information requeNted. Of coursf'. the morl' Wt' 
know. the more we can help to dl'termine the kinds of Nav~· posi-

Lt::f:.:hi::.:o:::li:. ______ J 
NavyOfficers 
GetResponsibility Fast. 

NEW YORK (AP)-A mountain­top Vermont forest once "deep green and dense" is now scarred by "gray skeletons oftrees" that look as if a hurricane has ripped through · them and the most likely cause is acid rain, a botanist says. 
"Fifty percent of all the trees that 
were alive on this mountain have 
died since 1964 -that's a stagger· 
ing number," Hubert Vogelmann, 
chairman of the botany department 
at the University of Vermont, said 
yesterday. 
"I hesitate to say acid rain is un­equivocally the cause, but we've been trying to eliminate other things. We can't find a disease. We can't find an insect pest. There are no climatic trends that we can iden­tify." 
The mountaintop, called Camel's Hump, lies 30 miles east of the. Uni· versity ofVermont in Burlington and receives 50 or 55 inches of rain a year -acid rain. 
All rain is slightly acigic. Carbon dioxide in the atmosphere dissolves in raindrops to form carbonic acid, a weak acid. 
But acid rain is composed of 
raindrop!> that have fallen through 
polluted air. The pollutants dissolve 
in the raindrops, increasing the 
rain's acidity to levels that are toxic 
to animab and plants. 
The problem is not limited to the 
United States. It is found everywhere 
from Bermuda to the Arctic Circle, 
where it is acid snow. 
Camel's Hump is frequently shrouded in fog. "We have recorded acid fog as acid in vinegar," Vogel· mann said. 
He was in New York in connec· tion with the publication of an article called "Catastrophe on Camel's Hump," which will appear in the November issue of Natural History magazine, published by the American Museum of Natural His· tory in New York. 
Vogelmann first studied Camel's 
Hump in 1964, but the possible ef­
fects of acid rain did not become 
known until 1977. In that year 
Thomas Siccama of the Yale Univer· 
sity School of Forestry analyzed the 
soil ofCamel's Hump and found high 
levels of cadmium, zinc, lead and 
copper -metals known to be toxic 
to plants. 
Vogelmann returned to the moun­
tain and found not only that half the ,. 
forest had been destroyed, but that · 
the destruction was continuing. 
"We think the firs are going next," he said. "This year we noticed for the first time the browning of needles on fir trees." 
Examination of growth rings in 
trees showed that growth had 
slowed dramatically in the 1950s 
and early 1960s, about the time, 
Vogelmann said, when acid rain 
began falling on Vermont. 
. . ~.:..-.. 
Thursday, October 14, 1982 -page 9
Editorials 

~otre Dame's edifice com lex: a stopga(? ap(?roach 
As official University archite¢1;$,. Ellerbe. Architects, Inc:; mces no open biddingon architecturaldesign contracts.· Uni· versity officials ·support the closed policy.28 an attempt to preserve a consistent architectural style on campus. Ad· ministtators also believe that Ellerbe-designed buildings are maintenance·free and that designs rarely overrun initial 
dieted. costs. Yet critics of recent UniVersity buildings ~gethat Ellerbe designsneither innovative noraesthetical­ly pleasingstructures. 
Bu.t ari indictment of Ellerbe is quite out of order. The culpritin this 30·year assoclatiolllsdearly the administration ofNotre Dame'which so closely gtiards the secrets ofits con­struction plans. A few administrators have determined the courseofarchitectural styleson.campuswhile paying only lip service tOfaculty and StUdent recommendations. 
The upheave! which arose with the.announcement ofthe .design of the new fuculty office building exemplifies this 
blatant lack of respect fur faculty input A three,member ad .hoc'committe~ fi>nned by A~ng Dean ofthe College ofArts .and Letters Robert Burn.~ never.ll:let Wi.th Ellerbe officials to ·discuss.the design ofthe·bullding. · Bnms was the lone repre­Sentative of the College ofArt$ and Letters to speak: directly•.• with Ellerbe officials. Dean Burns reasoned that because he acted.as the "conduit" from the ad: hoc,committee to Ellerbe, it "WilSn'tappropriate fur the coll:lnlitteeto be presentatthe5e 
meetings." Such remarks abo  oprl,ateness" reflect a  
ftippant approach  to.  a  p  demands  serious  
cooperation between the.  ·  
And administrators  

< ' '"'<: '':v:;., < ':;' 
wJU¢h to rectify the ";. . . Ex . .· .·. .·· . ent 
Father Edmund Joyce presents only ashort·sight<'d vision of 
this University problem based on immediate needs and what 
heregardsastighteconomkconstraints:"ltwouldbelovelyif 
we could provide a suite like at Oxford, but that's a different 
world." Notre Dame, he says, provides"allthat'snecessary for 
the job at hand." 
And while thesereceutlyconstructed buildingsmay indeed 
shelter students and faculty from rain and snow, no building 
retlects a long-range viston ofthe entire campus. Each build· 
ing becomes a solutiriit ~nto it$CJ(. withOut regard ·to the 
greater value of acontinual building process. 'the UniverSity 
builds only when a specific need arises, and the building 
meets only that immediate need and displays no concept of 
long-range growth orflexibility. 
And thus this "necessary" approach to planning stifles any hope for creative design on Ellerbe's part. When ad­ministrators provide Ellerbe otlicials with these particular re· quirements, Ellerbe can .do little but follow the explicit directions ofUnhrersity .OflidaJs. Ellerbe can o.nly do so much with what they are gjV:en; And while Ellerbe c;an be held responsible for particular design flaws, such as .those .in·.the Snite Museum ofArt, the l.lltimate res{xmsibility for the func­tionsofthe buildingsUes with the administration. 
For some time now. facuJty members have.. been asking themseives and administration ·i>fficlals why .the.• Univ<:tsity utinues to empk>y Ellerbe, ·consideringthe dis¢ont.ent over 
aesthetic and ~ist:ie d(!$jgns of:gnerbe buildin$5. Last : 
"1;~ ,v -~,i:.·i-·'' ~:. .. ~7'"'" ,v 
don asking for (be ~culty tQ suppqrt a <:ha.nge in University 
policy regarding Ellei'be as official arcbitert.Bnt because of 
the lack oftesport$C to the petition, the sponsors of the peti• 
tion did not even approach University officials with the 
signatures. Those who did not sign seemingly either feared 
repercussions,.or reasoned that no matter what they said, the 
administration would not heed their advice. Through sue 
experiences wl:th administrators, many faculty have become 
indifferent, not because they do not care, but because they 
have been. frusti'11tedby administrators tong enough. , And noW' that tile Fitzpatrick Engineering Hall finally ap. pears sea'Wotthy, one can oniy wonder why such a complex 
.,.should suffer from such seemingly elementary troubles as 
water leakage. The estimated $100,000 spent on the leak­
plugging, rewiring, and re-waterproofing is comingfrom Uni· 
versity funds. Mysteriously, no one is being blamed for the 
faults.. And so, money which could be spent for another 
project, is used tQ fund repairs of problems wllich should 
neverharet>(:curred . 
Evidently, the dosed nature of University building policy 
frustrates taculty both and students. But policy need not be 
.thisway..Buiklings~eintended to seJ:Ve those~ use them, 
not those wb() budd or plan them. It is theretbre imperative 
that the admirustration entrust decisions liibOut building 
design andcampusplanningto thefAculty andstudents. While 
administratorswould certainly maintain the final approval for 
building projects, there is no reason why faculty and students 
should not ~ myolved 28 advisors in the long-range plans of.. 
groupo~~~~:=f=:=~·=tt.~~t~.~~: ,,;;the University: . ,,>·r:'7'r-~~@,. ······'·, ..· 
Students lack common sense 
This past weekend, seven students -five from Notre Dame and two from Saint Mary's -were arrested at Corby's, a nearby tavern. Six of these seven were nailed for underage drinking, the seventh for disorderly conduct. 
Tim Neely 
My Turn 
If South Bend police really wanted to crack down, they could have nabbed many more at the same time, and many more any other weekend (or near,weekend) night. 
During the Michigan football weekend, many ofthe student residents ofthe Northeast Neighborhood section closest to the bars returned after the night game to find their houses broken into and cleared out. At other times others in the same neck of the woods have returned -after classes, after carousing, whenever -to find personal effects lifted from their residences. 
These two examples point out what I per-
Football in a column about faith? In today's article, the principles composing this column's outlook will be used in rebuttal of an editorial appearing two Fridays ago, "The Lunacy of It All," about the NFL players' strike. My impressions of Randy Fah's pos· 
David M. Schorp 
Chautauqua in Faith 
tion are summarized by the following state­ments: I) NFL football players don't have the right toform a union, oreven deserve thepay they recieve, because they don't really work as the blue,collar man does. 2) College ath· letes are only are dumbjocks who waste their opportunityfor an education. 
Mr. Fahs, 
Reading your Friday's column about the 
football strike, I wonder ifyour position might 
not be classified into the category of"Snobby 
Intellectualism." This is the manner of 
thought ofeducated, but not wise people who ceive as a lack of basic common sense among at least a sizable minority of students in the ND,SMC community. · 
Events like these happen over and over, day after day, year after yea·r. l have been here for over four years and nothing ever changes ­only the people involved do. Then, when somethingdoes happen, they pick the nearest available target -the South Bend police, the Notre Dame administration, their housemates, Indiana laws -as the subject of blame. They don't blame the people they should be blaming -themselves. 
It remains a mystery to me why students risk arrest by going to the local drinking es· tablishments while not legally able to. Anyone who really feels there is nothing better to do than hit the bars is not trying too hard. There are plenty ofopportunities, on or offcampus, to drink without having to worry about a police raid. Indiana's 21 ,year·old drinking age is the law, and as such, it should be obeyed like any other, even if the idea is repulsive to some (like those from a state like Wisconsin, where the legal age is 18). 
That law is one of the first things incoming freshmen find out about when they arrive here, yet it is the target of many juvenile at· tempts at circumvention. The Notre Dame ad­ministration already has a fairly liberal policy toward alcohol use on campus, more liberal than almost any other university in the state. (Purdue, for example, does not allow any al· coho! anywhere in its dormitories.) Are stu­dents here really that stupid that they don't see the risks involved' Many here seem to be. 
It also remains a mystery why, despite the perennially high crime rate, students, when they move off campus, continue to gravitate toward the area of the Northeast Neighbor­hood closest to the bars. And then, when they do move into that area, they always blame South Bend police or the Notre Dame ad· ministration for not caring about off-campus students, after robberies, burglaries, and other unsavory acts occur. 
If those who move into South Bend really had common sense, they would move into safer areas. They do exist I myself live in 
Athletes and their role in society 
see another's worth only in the light of his 
mental capability. One ~fyour opening lines," 
I find it absurd that any professional athlete, 
who is playing a child's game for a large sum of 
money..." is an insult to good men and 
women, and might stem from an "incomplete 
perception of reality." To make this clear, we 
must explore he role the athlete "plays." 
Any sociologist or psychologist will tell us that along with man's basic needs such as love, atention. and physical and mental activity, is the need for aesthetic entertainment. This is the need to watch oflisten to somehing purely for the simple pleasure of watching and/or listening. For some people this need is fulfilled by hearing an orchestra, watching a ballet, or going to a play. Sporting events also fulfill this need for a vast number ofpeople. Athletes are "poetry in motion." God has given us a won, derful body, and isn't it amazing what can be done with it' In another sense, isn't it just plain thrilling to watch Dave Duerson crush a ball carrier? 
Sporting events and teams, on the basis of 
this appeal, provides for the cities of this 
country (and the nation itself in he case of in, 
ternational events) a common ground, a sense 
of unity. A city bemoans its cellar·dweller, or 
boasts its champion. When a group of people 
ofvarying hackgorounds come together, what 
more natural way for conversation to begin 
than with the pennant race or the Top Ten 
rankings? I might also mention that the blue 
collar worker, because ofthe possible dryness of his job, may be in need of this sort of aes, thetic release the most. 
Athletes do, indeed, cater to a human need ofgreat importance Mr. Fahs. In doing so they are making the most oftheir God-given talents and abilities to benefit society. That is what matters, and not, for instance, how educated these persons are. 
The high salary of a professional athlete is nothing more than a matter of supply and demail<l. I will contend that the percentage of football players who actually make it to the pros is much,much lower that the percentage of premeds who become doctors. I will also contend that a football player's contribution to society is just as great as that ofa doctor, or for that matter, of a hard working blue collar 
one. All one really has to do is keep a sharp eye out, use the resources of the off-campus housing office, and have a South Bend map (to avoid the "war zone" area at all costs). 
Also, if something does happen tv the residence, don't blame the South Bend police for not being around. South Bend, boys and girls, is not a cushy suburb of a few thousand relatively wealthy people -it is acity, and as such it has the same problems as any other city in America thanks to cutbacks in spending and a declining tax base, among others. The police can't be everywhere at once. Those who foolishly live in the downtown Northeast Neighborhood must take responsibility for their own property and actions. 
In order to be admitted, Notre Oame stu, dents supposedly must have higher·than, average intelligence. But incidents described in the first two paragraphs, and others like them which happen over and over. make me wonder if a sizable portion of students here never use that intelligence outside of the classroom. 
man or anyone else who strives to give all he 
can to his vocation. Do not underestimate our 
aesthetic need -what would Notre Dame he 
without he excitement generated by its foot­
ball and basketball teams? 
What may prejudice some of us against professional athletes is that, in fact, some of them are "stuck up," or "spoiled," (and might judge others solely on the basis of their physi, cal abilities). I ask, couldn't this outlook of some athletes be attributed as reaction against the sor· of "Snobby Intellectualism" that might b~ promoted by your article? 
FinaiiJ, Mr. Fahs, you needn't worry about a college athlete finding a job, with or without a diploma, after his playing days are over. On the field they learn more about striving and committtment than most of us do. 
I haven't stated whether the football strike is right or wrong. But I will adamantly defend that it is wrong to base a decision on the man, ner in which these men are contributing to the happiness ofour society. Professional '3th· Ietes are one in a million, and are to fhis country a tremendous service. 

Editorial Board D_epartment Managers 
The Obrer:w is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Editor·in,Chief..............................Michael Monk Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello
Unrversity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Colle~e. It does not ne(essarily 
Managing Editor................ Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller .............................................Eric Schulz 
reflect the polrcies of the administration of either institution. The nL'WS i~ report 
Executive News Editor.........................Kelli Flint Advertising Manager....................... Chris Owen
ed as accurately and as objedivdy as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of 
SMC Executive Editor.... .......Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager..................Maura Murphy
a maJority of the Edrtorial Board. Co.nmentaries, opinions and letters are the views 
Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager ..........................Ray lnglin 
of thcrr authors. Column space is available to all memb<:rs of the communrty, and 
Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Systems Manager...........................Bruce Oakleythe f rre expression of varying opiniOns on campu~. through letters, ii encounged. 
Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown 
Photo Editor...................................Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966
P.O.Box Q. Notre Dame, IN <i6556 (l19) l39-'H03 
; I 
~j)(),-tS=~~~~i=~~~~S======~=====================T=h=u=rs=d=ay='=O=cJ~ob=e=r=l4='=1=98=2===pa=g=e==lO
lh Tbe ( JIJsen•a and Tbe Associated Press 
The Boxing Club is having weigh-ins and physicals Notre Dame women's voueyoau team wiu play 
tomorrow for all boxers who have participated in the novice Olivet Nazarene College and the Chicago State Cougars this after­program. This is in preparation for the cluh's annual novice tourna­noon at 5:30 in Chicago. -The OIJserver ment. The first round of the tourney is set for Monday, Oct. 18 and the championship bouts will be held Wednesday, Oct. 20. -The 
Obsen•er See SPORTS BRIEFS, page 13 
Classifieds  The Observer will accept class1f1eds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 am to 4 30 p.m. However. c1asslf1eds to appear 111 the next 1ssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to 1nsert1on All class1f1eds must be prepaid e1ther 1n person or through the mall  
LOST: Oval St Chnstopher s mecal. one Need nde to S1oux Falls, SD or area If to one & one halt large. between Lewis you are going to or through this area call,NOTICES Hall and the Huddle or the Huddle and the Matt x 1 025. Will share usual. Ltbrary. It is made of Stiver Call Kevin DESPERATELY NE!:D RIDE TO NYC1592 1f found Reward 1f found FOR BREAK WILL SHARE EXPENSES WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM $2995 CALL JIM AT 6563 64K M1crocomputer,letter quality pnnter. LOST ND LETTER JACKET 10/12 IN ENG AUD. CALL PAT x1961 REWARDword process1ng software. CP/M, Bas1c. NEED RIDE TO BOSTON OCT BRK Call 277-7720 GREG 234-1673 Lost. Black and whtte pearl nng some­where in the v1cmity of Madeteva and theTYPING AVAILABLE 287-4062 Alders needed to ORLANDO Call 264­sc1ence building on SMC campUs Very 5536 or 264·5400 to leave message. Mic· NEED CREDIT? valuable and has sentimental worth. If helle found PLEASE call Lome at 5484InformatiOn on rece1V1ng Visa, Master­card, with no credit check. Other cards Alders needed to COCOA BEACH, available Free brochure call Personal FLORIDA or p01nts along the way tor Oc· Credli Serv1ce: (602) 946-6203 ext. 3646 Iober Break Cindy 284·5452 FOR RENT Need a ride? Drive a Wilson Dnveaway RIDE needed to BOSTON for October car home tor break. One way transporta­break. Will share driving and expenses tion. you pay only gas and tolls (plus Call STEVE at 277·6765, afternoons orN1ce furnished house 2 blocks to N.D returnable security deposit) Call Bob at eventngs.277-3604 or 266·0955. 233-6495 PLEASE HELP! need nde to WASH,DCStudent Hous1ng -Clean -Safe COLORADO FOR BREAK!! PLEASE lor oct break. Will help w1th usual Maura$100/mo. 291-1405 HELP TWO WILD DOMERS REACH x2244 THE ROCKIES --NEED A ONE:'-WAY Furn efficiency $100 Also 1 bedroom RIDE TO ANY PART OF CO. WILL NEED RIDE ON 1-80 EAST TO EAST­apartment $175 Call 255-6505 SHARE USUAL. AND CAN BRING BACK ERN PA FOR OCT BREAK·ROB 1762 .......\ .. RIDERS. CALL LORI at 7601 OR DIANA at 6963 DESPERATE!!!!! Need 1 or 2 GAs for the Anzona game!!! call Don at 266·3051 FOR SALE .IREMEMBER -URBAN PLUNGE AP­PLICATIONS ARE DUE BY 3:00 PM. NEEDED two Penn State GAs. Will trade TOMORROW FRIDAY. OCTOBER 15 two Anzona GAs&$$ Paul 3436 USED BOOKS Bought, Sold, Searched ERASMUS BOOKS. Tues-Sun. 12-6 T'oPING: EX-LEGAL SECRETARY 272­Need nde to or near San Antomo, TX for1027 E Wayne. One Block South of 5337 break W/share usual. Call Steve at 1777Eddy-Jefferson IntersectiOn Need nders to the glorious World·Series TRAVEL CHEAP ON AMTRAK. One-way c1ty of St. Louis M1ssoun! (GO RED­Need nde to NASHVILLE, TN .for Octcoach tJcket NJies-ChJcago-Denver·BIRDS!!) Leaving for October break break Can leave early Call 259-77 48 andSeattle for $70. Must be used by October Fnday aafternoon. Oct. 22. call D1ane at leave message 31.1962 ContactEncat263-6218 7983 YEA CARDINALS!!! Need ride to Newark, DE or nearby for JOB BANK break (Philadelphia, Baltimore are OK) FOREVER LIVING PRODUCTS D1ane 2114WANTED Contact: Roger Thorn 362-7276 Pos1tlon available: DIStributor NEED 2 RIDES TO VERMONT OR AREA CIRCLE LUMBER Help! South Bend Juliet wants to see her FOR OCT BREAK. CALL RICH 1625 Contact Cra1g Tae:man 267-5971 Milwaukee Romeo. I need a nde to Mil­ATHL£TIC ANNEX waukee on Oct. 23 after the GMAT's. Will RIDERS NEEDED· GOING SOUTH Contact Tom Lower 272-7565 Contact share the usual If you can help me out. THROUGH INDIANAPOLIS, LOUIS­Mark Tobo1Ski291-6796 pleeeeze call Julie at 3862 VILLE, NASHVILLE. AND ATLANTA Pos1t10ns available: part t1me sales LEAVING OCTOBER 22 AFTER LUNCH CALL ALAN AT 1666. LEAVEWYGANT FLORAL COMPANY Ann Arbor/DetrOit is where 1t's at! (Or Contact Dorothy DeClerck 232-3354 rather that's where he s at') I would be MESSAGE Positions available: dnver and clerk forever grateful for a nde to lhe Ann Ar­UNITED CONSUMERS OF SOUTH bor /Detroit area on Oct. 23 aHer the Need ride to MILWAUKEE, Fri. Oct. 16. Can leave anytime after 11 a.m. WillBEND GMAT's. I will share the usual. Please share usual expenses.' call Sheila 289­Contec:t Andrew Spite 233-2204 help me out. 9304.Poanlon available: Tele.IP.R GENERAL MICROCOMPUTER Riders needed to Daytona Beach, Contact John Levy 277-4972 Florida or any points along the way for GOING TO CENTRAL JERSEY?· Posttton available· computer program­October Break Call Denny at 277-0636 2 OF US NEED A RIDE THERE FOR mmg soon BREAK If more 1nformat10n IS needed, call Bob CALL DON AT x1630 Yonchak or Anne Chapsk1 at 7666 RIDE NEEDED to Minnesota for Oc­Need ride to Nashville. TN lor Oct Break HI MOM, DAD, AND KATIE: I HOPE tober Break. Call Cathy, 3793. Thanks! Can leave Wed 10/20. Also need nde YOU HAVE A GOOD TIME THIS back to ND from N. New Jersey on 10/31 WEEKEND. NEW YORK NEW YORK NEED RIDE TO If you can help w1th e1ther PLEASE call .................................._............................ NYC for October Bk Will share usual Janet at 4571 Will share usual . PLUS good cookieS Call Joann at 62~9 OCTOBER BREAK\ LOST/FOUND I Need a nde tor " down to the M1am1/Ft. TICKETS Lauderdale area Will share costs. Please ORANGE STONE CALL GINA 6553 call6965. CALL GINA 6553 LISTEN, I GOT CASH AND YOU GOT TWO GIRLS NEED RIDE TO PH ILLY TWO PENN ST GA'S -LET'S MAKE A To whomever picked up my CORDUROY FOR BREAK WILL SHARE USUAL SWITCH CUZ MY DAD WANTS TO SEE JACKET outside the south d1n1ng hall on CALL CELESTE AFTER 7 X7695 THIS GAMEII CALL CINDY AT 2948 Friday. Why do you you want 1f? It's too PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE old and beat-up for any respectable per· NEEDED: RIDE or RIDES to PITTS­son to wear but l WANT IT BACK!!! If you BURGHill call TOM, 1754 or BRIAN, WILL PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENN have tl for any reason 11 has my name 1n 1t, 610511 (for fall break)-­PITTSBURGH. STATE GA TIX. CALL 312-565-5959 so call AI at 3423 pittSburgh. PITTSBURGH. pittsburgh-· COLLECT AND ASK FOR STEVE LONGLEY.LOST. Hewlett-Packard calculator 1n DRIVING TO OR THRU S. DAKOTA FOR black leather-like pouch II was left m OCT BREAK? I NEED A RIDE-CALL NEED 6 ARIZ GAS-DOUG at6166 e1ther 214 Math/Computer or the MARLENE 2963 Aud1tonum in Cush1ng. If you know any­Need 4 Anzona G A s 263-7970 thing about it. please caU John Kilcran at RIDERS wanted on 1-80 east to central 6534 PA (exit 31 or near). Call Greg at 1756. NEED ANY KIND OF PENN STATE TIX CALL MEG-7626 Whoever FOUND' my I D. and football I NEED A RIDE TO BOSTON IF I DON T tix $aturday for $10. please return them GET TO BOSTON I HAVE TO GO SEE DESPERATE I NEED 2·4 PENN STATE as stated in our verbal contract. K. Hew· MY PARENTS SO TAKE ME TO BOS­GAS RIGHT NOW­WILL PAY $$$ son, 261 C C E. 263-7443. TON WITH YOU CHRIS 1774 CALLJIM 3132 NOW-PLEASE!!! LOST: 1 RICOH MENS WRIST WATCH. RIDE NEEDED FOR TWO TO BOSTON VOLUPTUOUS LITTLE SISTER hasPLEASE RETURN REWARD CALL FOR OCT. BREAK. CALL ME, STEVE AT never seen an N.D. game! Her LAST and JOE 1166 234-9560 ONLY chance is PENN ST She and her entourage need 2 GAs and 3 stud. tixLOST: Notre Dame class ring at the Miami NEED riders or ride to PITTSBURGH Were talk1ng BIG$$ here!! Joe 1652Pep Rally Please return it! My father will areaonweekendofOct 16 & 17Call Tony kill me if I show up at home w1thout rt. Call 277·3067 or 239-6326 NEED 2 OR 4 ARIZONA GA TICKETSTom. 8602. REWARD. $$$CALL MIKE AT 1475 NEED RIDE TO ST LOUIS FOR OC­Found: one necklace aHer Alumm party TOBER BREAK CALL AMY AT 6040 BELIEVE IT! I WILL PAY $100 FOR 2Call Matt 1025. WILL HELP PAY FOR GAS PENN STATE GAS CALL MARGIE 4416Found: Calculator in Cushing on Wed. Need two fides to ROCHESTER. NY on Oct. 6. Call 1766 to identi1y and claim. Fri Oct 22. Call Mike 8265. WANTED 2 ARIZONA GAS PLEASE LOST: N1kon camera in black case on CALL RON AT 6496 LETS GO TO CINCINATTI NEED Friday -in area of the Dome. Call 264­RIDERS FOR (15th) WEEKEND CALL 5313-Reward! NEED 4-6 NAVY GA'SI CALL STEVE 8531 239-5713 LOST T.l. PROGRAMABLE CAL· NEED RIDE to LONG ISLAND for break! CULATOR THURS. MATH BUILDING Call Jane x1639 AFTER STATS TEST. C.\LL ROB 6827 NEEDED TWO STUD TIX FOR PLEASE!! Need RIDE to DARTMOUTH for break!! ARIZONA GAME PLEASE CALL 3574 Call Patti x1639 A·FRAMES A-FRAMES FOUND: SET NEED PENN ST GAs BIG TIME! 5$$ ROOM KEYS SAT. NITE AT no.36 TO Need one student t1cket tor the Arizona CALL 1627 CLAIM CALL 3454 game. Call Patti x1839 NEED 2 PAIR PITT GAs PHIL 1764 LOST: Gold watch. made in USSR. brown BRIAN 1169 R1DE NEEDED TO NEAR leather band, near Howard. PHONE: NEAR WEST PALM BEACH FLORIDA NEED 2 OR MORE GAS FOR ARIZONA. 3558. OR MIAMI PLEASE CALL BRIAN 1169 CALL EILEEN AT SMC 5239  I NEED 2 GAs for Arizona Please call Teresa at 7130 DESPERATELY NEED PENN TIX. BOTH GA & STUDENT CALL SUE AT 263·7369 NEED 4 GA TIX TO PENN ST $$$CALL JIM 233-2366 DESPERATE. Need 2 ARIZONA GA's. Please call Michele, 3793. Thanks. WE NEED ARIZONA & PENN ST GAs CALL DON OR DAVE AT 1850 HELP I NEED ARIZ GAS CALL ROB 6627 DESPERATELY NEED 3 GAS FOR ARIZONA: COULD MEAN EMPLOYE NT CALL STEVE AT 232-0550 wanted desperately! tix for the penn st. game. W1ll pay bux deluxe matt 277­4573 I NEED 2 GAs FOR ARIZONA. PLEASE CALL CAROLYN AT 6067 . Need Arizona GA s call 17 41 I NEED MUGHO ARIZONA TIX JOE 1154 NEED ARIZONA TIX x1173 Tom Need 2 Anzona GAs. Call J1m at 3342. Need Anz student t1x. Call t 193 NEED An zona GAs Pay Much$ Call277­7529 NEED ARIZONA GAs & STUDENTS. Parents & Grandparents already on the way trom Texas. Call Dan at 3522 $$$$ Need 2 GAs 1or Anzona call M1ke 7960 Need 2 Student or GAs tor ARIZONA Please call Kev1n at 277·1705 Need 2 Anzona GA s.w1ll pay $25 per tic. Joe 3530 Must sell 2 RUSH tickets. 11/6/62. 14th row Call Todd at 6762 ARIZONA Student Ticket For Sale $35 00 or Best Offer Call J.B at 1658. HELP$$$$$ I NEED 2 ARIZONA G A s ANNE 263-6794 NEED ARIZONA GA TICKETS $$$ CALL MIKE AT 1475 NEED TWO G.A s FOR ARIZONA-CALL JIM AT 282·1527 $$DESPERATELY NEED PENN STATE GAS!CALLJOHNAT 1751$$ 2 ARIZ. STU TIX FOR SALE GERRY 1521 FOR SALE 2 ARIZ STU TIX CALL STEVE 1396 I NEED 2 GAS OR STUDENT TIX FOR ARIZ PLEASE CALL TRACY x6009 FOR SALE:2 ARIZONA GAS STAN 1641 3-5P M WILL TRADE 2 ARIZONA GAS FOR 2 PENN STATE GAS OR STUD TIX CALL 2156 Need Penn State Ga s. W1ll pay cold hard cash. 6539 NEED 2 GAs FOR ARIZ DAVE 277­0955 NEED 1 ARIZONA TIX. STUDENT OR G.A.I CALL MARY 2279 NEE04 GAS FOR PENN STATE GAME CALL TRACEY 5201 (SMC) YOUR PRAYERS ARE ANSWERED!! We have 2 Anzona t1x, w111 sell to best of· fer. Call Susan & Susan x6736 FOR SALE: 2 GAS TO ARKANSAS GAME .LISA.. 277·3196 \ NEED· FOUR GAS FOR THE ARIZONA GAME CALL MAUREEN SMC 5506 DEAD if we don't get 4 GA s for Anzona. can you help us? Call T1na at 4320 or Brenda at 4376 urgently reqUire 1 (one) GA Arizona please call c1ndy 771 1 GEEE If I don't get Arizona tickets for thiS weekend, my brother Wally Will clobber me!! Please help by calling "The BEAVER" at 1179 !!! For sale: 2 Anzona GAs. Best offer Call Steve at 1170 ARIZONA TIX NEED 2 or 4 GAs please call Dave 7289  NEED 2 OR 4 ARIZONA GA TICKETS Karen J . Meet Me In St LOUIS-­CALL MARK 6046 Congratulations!! Need 6 GA s & 2 Student t1x to Ari2ona. JENNIFER HELMEN Call Steve 1061 I love you very much, and Tony Need 2 An2ona GAs Call John 1562 IOWA IOWA IOWA Need s1x GA·s for Anzona game For en· The newly formed NO/SMC IOWA thus1ast1C alumn1! Please call 283-1809. CLUB Will hold 1ts Introductory happy hour Thank you! th1s Fnday 1n the Zahrn party room (basement! between 4 and 6 PM. Be sure I NEED PITT,PENN ST GAs $$$ CALL to come and support your new organtza­BRENDAN 3207 tlon and meet some fellow Hawkeyes Any questions call John 6962 Jakkl 6645 NEED ARIZONA GA TIXS. PETE 232­orT1m 1574 1466 AND WHO EVER THOUGHT THAT For Sale: An2ona GA llx. Call M1ke at ALLIGATORS COULD SURVIVE IN THE 1606!1 SAME ROOM WITH WHIPS, CHAINS. AND DEERHOOVES?? WHO WOULD Need 1 Anzona Stu Ticket Call Bnan 6315 EVER BELIEVE THAT MICHAEL STANEL Y WOULDN T WARP NEXT TO DAU BAND?? AND REALLY NOW. WHO IN THEIR RIGHT MIND COULD TOLERATE A BIRTHDAY ON APERSONALS THURSDAY?? WELL. THE ANSWER TO ALL THESE QUESTIONS IS IR­RELEVANT BUT WHAT REALLY lnends of LESTER SUMRALL. please call COUNTS IS THAT Karen. 2147 SUE CORBETI IS HAVING HER 21st ROBERT--The Califorma Angels were BIRTHDAY TODAY Ill QUICHE EATERS and the St. Lows Car­IMAGINE THAT... dmals are next!! I can smell that pizza HAVE A GREAT ONE! now YOUR ROOMIE URBAN PLUNGE-DEADLINE FOR AP· SOMETIMES LIFE RMINDS ME OF A PLICATION IS TOMORROW FRIDAY, ROLLERCOASTER UP. DOWN, EX· OCTOBER 15 AT 3:00PM PENSIVE AND NAUSEATING. THE FUNNY THING. THOUGH. IS THAT SUMMER PROGRAMS -LONDON EVERY TIME I'M READY TO GET OFF, I (MAY 17-JUNE 16) ROME (JUNE 13 DECIDE TO TAKE ANOTHER RIDE BE­-JULY 12~ COURSES IN ART, BUSI­CAUSE ITS SO MUCH FUN. NESS, EDUCATION, HISTORY, ITALIAN, MUSIC & PHILOSOPHY. IN­MARY S. SCORED HER FIRST N D FO. MEETING ON OCT. 18, 7 P.M. (232 FIELD HOCKEY GOAL!'! Congrals Mary MOREAU -SMC). CALL PROF. A.R. (I told you new cleats would help)--Look BLACK 4460 OR 272-3726. Out Philly!!' Attention N D. studs! My roommate. Tara NEED RIDE TO ST. LOUIS FOR OC­Walter. IS 16 today!!Come on overtoP W TOBER BREAK WILL SHARE USUAL 417 or call 4620 to w1sh th1s wild woman CALL SUSAN AT 264-5526 Happy B·Day!!! BP ANIMALS ARE ON THE MOVE Need a ride to •"her northern New Jer­AGAIN' WE ARE A LEAN-MEAN­sey (right off Rt. ao~r tile Allentown, FIGHTING MACHINE'! ROMP LEWIS! Pa. area for October breall. Cell leave Wednesday, Oct. 20. Call Mike, 277­Hey Popeye & Company (6th Flanner): 4300. Bet y'all eat SPINACH QUIChe; after all, isn t that what "fun" guys do?? ALL Theo majors are welcome to meet SYR, Olive Oil today for a soc1al hour with Fr Burtchaell 4:30pm. 331 0 Shag. PANZECA makes DOMER status! Jane Pan2eca. once a lowly transfer student Pre-Law Soc1ety tailgater for Anzona casts away her vah-d~ne and becomes an game on Green Field All mem-bers and official DOMER. She now has an offic•at friends welcome Look for the PLS BAN· I. D. card. Congratulahons.Janie! NER The Ignitor, Rock·n Rob1n, Cooop. S1mba. BOGART IS BACK!! Pre-Law Soc1ety Storm·n Gorman, BenJI, Don, Charlie, presents CASA BLANCA. Thurs. && Fn , J1mmy· R1p the Cards apart! Go BREW Eng. Aud., 7,9&11 HERES LOOKING CREW' AT YOU!! 3 DOWN-----53 TO GO WHOS BUFFALO CLUB: All MEMBERS AND NEXT???????? THEIR FAMILIES ARE INVITED TO AT­BILL, PETE, CHRIS, AND BRIAN. EVEN TEND A TAILGATER IN FARLEY HALL THOUGH WE SKIPPED THE CRUISEON SATURDAY AT 11:00 A.M.; ROAST WE DIDN T MISS THE BOAT! M.L .. A C,BEEF ON WECK WILL BE SERVED! NA,ANDKP atlanta .. atlanta .atlanta ATTENTION ST MARYS STUDENTSAre you go1ng to or through for October ST. JOSEPH HALL .­A SCENICbreak? I need a nde, so please take me GRADUATE RESIDENCE FOR 70w1th you Call Jeb at 6630 Thank you LONELY MEN ABOUT TO EMBARK ON atlanta. atlanta. atlanta VERY LUCRATIVE CAREERS-NEEDS LISA G. ANOTHER FIRST!' THANKS YOU!! SEND YOUR PICTURES ALONG FOR TAILGATE w/FOLKS YOU RE WITH YOUR NAME AND NUMBERS GREAT SEE YOU SOON? THERA C/0 CAMPUS MAIL TO BOX 227 ST JOSEPH HALL NO RESUMES. Welcome to South Bend, Mrs Traw PLEASE But on your return tnp to Tucson, please take RONNIE back wfth you. Blondie-Just barely? Gold1-locks Thank you. Natm-Beware the Pnestmaker! HAPPY HALLOWEEN FROM 218 GRACE HALL Hey. ROTC Rick, I LOVE YOU! The lnnsbruck Canuck Halloween at N D this year 1s OCTOBER 15 There once was a redhead from SM1C Who became totally s1ckD1d you l(now that Ted Dore has Of the dead soc1al a.cenethe t1p of h1s big nose? And the Domers so mean That she longs for a man to make her Mr Rob Cymbalok. heart lick Oh Yes. but you w1ll come up for Penn So 1f you are the funlov1ng k1nd State Who s mterested 1n such a great f1nd Just g1ve her a call I want to sign the wall. It wont hurt at all Postcards?!? And lm sure that she won ·r really rmnd! Who·s k1dd1ng who? Call Laura at 4360 Call Laura at 4360 HALLOWEEN PARTY? To Throat and the rest of the obnoxious YES FRIDAY NIGHT bores of room 325 Grace You ve blown YES Do you he,. • costume to us off tw1ce now. but we don t get mad. we -1!1& get even. So !he next hme you re all alone YES (Or just bnng your Birthday SUI! If you on the 6th Floor of the ND library. Be don· t have a costuiT)e) Aware! Love. BEWARE OF GENERIC BEER SIX­The g~rls from Lemans who have seen PACKS you at your worst (or was that your best?) you losers To theSMC (no Dov1ch) whoso cruelly hit Now form1ng is the Anti--w._.. me last Friday Do you !honk hoppong Club around South Bend IS fun? Oh my Gawd. AKA Kick the WEIRDOS out of N.D The blind man Club S1gn up at the New Wavers Party thiS John Norton lives on rn the hearts of all Weekend Gorean slave g•rls On their Face Assume the pos1110n  

~­
Thursday, October 14, 1982-page 11
The Observer 
Fallen Angels fail final exam 
I thought I was going to die. 
How could they do this to me? My heroes ...dead. 
The California Angels had finally expired_ 
And I was with them all the way. 
I was with them at owner Gene Autry's Palm Spring's 
training paradise in March, when everyone sa.id they had an awesome offense -but no pitching. 
With four former Most Valuable Players and over a dozen former All-Stars, Autry had assembled a dream team. Fred Lynn, Rod Carew, Don Baylor, Reggie Jack· son. Not to mention Bobby Grich, Doug DeCinces, Rick Burleson, Bob Boone. All seasoned veterans who had at one time or another had learned how to win. 
How could they lose? 
As the preseason baseball experts saw it, four factors stood in the way ofManager Gene Mauch's first division title. First of all, the Angels had little or no pitching. With a staff ·consisting mainly of over-the-hill, sore­armed hurlers, they were shaky at best. 
Second of all, the Angels were bound to have an at· 
titude problem. Could all these rich and famous athletes 
actually play together as a unit? Wouldn't the'· egos 
brought on by multi-million dollar contracts conflict? 
Third of all, could all of these veterans last another season? Could their old bodies stand up to the day-to· day rigors ofa pennant drive? 
And last, could Manager Gene Mauch finally overcome his managerial jinx? Known as one of t-he most briallant strategists in the game, Mauch's reputa· tion is tarnished by one fact -he had never won. Any­thing. The closest he carne was with his I964 Philadelphia Phillie team. That year, the Phils led the National League by 6. '5 with I 2 games remaining. They proceeded to lose ten in a row and hand the title to the St. Louis Cardinals. Needless to say, Mauch, since that year, has been known as a choker. 
The answers to the first three of these questions weren't long in coming. After the first two months of the season, the Angels' pitching staff had taken the entire American League by surprise. While leading the league in ERA, the pitchers were actually carrying the hitters, who couldn't generate many runs. 
And the attitude problems? They never surfaced. 
With Reggie Jackson leading the way, the stars declared 
their united intent on winning the pennant for the 80· 
year-old cowboy. No individual stars on this team. just a 
bunch of veterans (next to 2 I -year-old Mike Witt, the 
youngest player on the team is 28-year-old Bobby 
Clark) looking for one last hurrah. 
Physical problems? Not on this team. Mauch vowed to handle the old men carefully, making sure each got 

plenty ofrest. 
The only question which couldn't be answered in May was Mauch's ability to manage a winner. Would the -pressure get to him? I doubted it, but we'd have to wait 
and see. 
As I returned to Southern California in May, I had vi­
sions of an excellent summer at Anaheim Stadium. 
Memories of I979 -the only year the Angels had ever 
won anything in their 20-year existence -were fresh 
in my mind. But not fresh enough. This was going to be 
the year. 
I wasn't very pleased with the presence of Reggie in 
my ballpark. I had booed the man for years. But now he 
was wearing a halo, and I could tolerate him for at least a 
season. 
As it turned out, Reggie had the biggest impact on 
Anaheim since Carroll Rosenbloom moved the Rams. 
Fans who, a year ago, made obscene gestures atjackson, 
now loved him. Chants of "Reggie, Reggie" could be 
heard echoing through Orange County. And that was 
before he found his homerun stroke. 
As the summer progressed, the fun increased. The Dodgers, the team I despise almost as much as the Yankees, were faltering for the same reason the Angels were prospering -age. While Dodger management threatened to break up the old gang, the Angels were flying high. 
But so were the Kansas City Royals and the Chicago White Sox. The fact that the Sox were alive intensified my desire for an Angel pennant because my dad, a die­hard Chicagoan, wouldn't shut up about his club. 
I virtually lived at Anaheim Stadium duringjune,July and August. When it carne time to return to campus (only the Golden Dome could pry me away from my Angels), the race was far from over. My last chance to root for the good guys came in September when they visited Comiskey Park to finally bury the Sox. I was there, ofcourse, screaming my lungs out. 
The showdown carne a week later, when the Royals 
See HALOS, page 12 

It was the best of times for Reggie jackson and the California Angels as Mr. October's home run in the American League Cham­pionship Series boosted the Halos' into a two-game lead. Three games later, however, all was disappointment for the Angels and their fans, as it is the Milwaukee Brewers who became the American League standard-bearers in this week's World Series. See Dave Dziedzic's column at left. ( AP Photo) 


-.~· ,. -~.,·-·~ ~-· ......·.... o·~~~....,.~ ~-J.T~.'::.\I"'JI.~ .. -~-.;•.,_,;. ,,._ 
--------~----~-----~-~-~~­
r 
Thursday, October 14, 1982 -page 12 
...Series 
The Observer 

Whitey Herzog assesses the St. Louis Cardinals' prospects prior to
'I 
I yesterday's World Series game versus the Milwaukee Brewers. Her­zog hadgreater reason to be sanguine after the game, as the Cards won, 5-4. See story on the backpage.(APPhoto) 
continuedfrom page 16 
Stuper. Charlie Moore followed with a double that rolled to the left field wall, scoring Howell. 
In the third, Molitor led off with a single, stole second and wound up at third when Stuper threw his second wild pitch, tying a Series record. Molitor scored on a grounder to second by Yount. 
Stuper got Cooper to pop to shortstop before Simmons came to the plate. On a 3-l pitch, Simmons cracked his second homer in two nights. It landed in the mezzanine level of the bleachers and gave the Brewers a 3-0 lead. 
The Cardinals got two of the runs back in the bottom of the third as their hit-and-run offense began to show life for the first time in the Series. 
Designated hitter Dane lorg led off with a bouncing single between first and second, the first hit off Sut­ton. lorg was forced at second by Willie McGee's grounder. but McGee then stole second and ad­vanced to third on Ozzie Smith's grounder. 
McGee scored when Herr ripped a ground-rule double into the gap in right-center. The ball bounced into the hands of a waiting fan, perhaps depriving Herr ofa triple. TV replays showed the fan was leaning into the field and possibly caught the ball below the top of the wall. But when Oberkfell followed with a run­scoring single, it became academic, and St. Louis had cut the lead to 3-2. 
The Brewers added their fourth run in the fifth, chasing Stuper. A leadoff double bv Yount ended the rookie's evening: and the 43-year­old Kaat relieved. Kaat yielded an opposite-field, run-scoring single to Cooper but got out of the inning 
when Simmons tlied to center, Oglivie popped to short and Thomas struck out. 
continuedfrom page 11 
invaded Anaheim for a three-game series. When they arrived, the Rovals were tied with the Angels for th~ American League West lead. When they crawled back to Kansas City, they trailed by three games. It was all over. 
My heroes. however, had to make it interesting. Instead of clinching the division by defeating the Royals in Kansas City, they waited until the next-to-last day of the season. 
The fourth question mark had tlnally been answered. Or had it? 
The Milwaukee Brewers were the next victims. After the Angels swept the first two playoff games, I was 
... Halos 
making my plans to visit either St. Louis or Atlanta for the World Series. I was going to be there. Just like I was there in Palm Springs. 
As you all know, it didn't turn out that wav. A gutsy Brewer cluh did what no other team had done before -won a Championship Series after losing the first two games. 
How could they do this to me? 
Maybe :\lauch is still a choker. Right-handed Luis Sanchez pitching to left-handed Cecil Cooper with the bases loaded' With lefties Geoff Zahn, Andy Hassler and Tommy 
John in the bullpen? Come on, Gene. I doubt if there is a lesson in this story. Only pain. 

The 1983 Pentastar Challenge Calendar. 
A chance to win a scholarship, Chrysler product and more. If you thought The New Chrysler 
Corporation was something different from other car makers, we're !' ~ out to prove that you're right. We've developed the "Pentastar Challenge" 
as a small, but deserving tribute to American ingenuity and intellegence. The Riddle 
The challenge in the calendar is an intellectual one. Within the story and illustrations, we've woven an intricate pattern of clues in five different areas of academics; Music, Math, Computer Science, Chemistry and Literature. There's nothing physically hidden or buried. All you need to unravel the conundrums is a fairly sharp pencil and a very sharp mind. 
The Reward 
If you are the first to have solved any one of the five riddles, you'll be awarded a $5,000 scholarship, a $5,000 cash grant to your school, your choice of a 1983 Turismo or Charger to 
drive for a year and a gold Pentastar Medallion. There are also 100 second place prizes of silver medallions. The official rules are on the back of the calendar. 
The Reason We think you'll enjoy the Pentastar Challenge Calendar because it's functional, attractive and entertaining. Maybe you should also know that through special arrangement with your 
• College Store. we're helping 
to support the operation of this very important part of your 
1983 P€!1TAST.<1R ·..· CHAibE!lG€ 
I 
campus. Is Chrysler getting out of the car business and into the calendar business? No. But at $4.98 maybe you'll be impressed with Chrysler enough to someday look at our cars. For us, that's the-challenge. 
OTHE 
The 1983 PentastarNEWCHRYSLER Challenge Calendar. 
On sale now at your college book store.
CORPORATION 
,... , 
('l '-!
r(t~~
··'7HOUSE
I 
RESTAUilANT 
15 REASONS: 
Broiled Seafood Platter 
Charbroiled Halibut Steak 
Charbroiled Salmon 
Shrimp De Johnge 
Charbroiled Swordfish 
Walleye Pike 
Red Snapper 
Trout Ala Mer 
Stuffed Flounder 
New England Scrod 
Rock Lobster 
Pan Fried Rainbow Trout 
Gulf Coast Shrimp 
Stuffed Shrimp 
Pan Fried Frog Legs 
5:30 Nightly All Day Sunday 100 Center Complex 
700 L.W.W., MlthiWikl 259-9925 


.-··--­
Thursday, October 14, 1982
The Observer page 13 
lllini passing old BigTenpo\Vers 
Saturday, for the first time since Dick Butkus was chasing coeds instead of birdies, they will be playing a meaningful football game in Champaign, Illinois. 
The Ohio State Buckeyes, hounded out of Ohio Stadium after three straight losses on their home AstroTurf, will seek refuge in Memorial Stadium. But there's a good chance they won't find it. Illinois coach Mike White has turned his fqotball program into a finishing school for California junior college all-stars and is starting to earn some handsome dividends. 
The Illini currently sit atop the Big Ten, their 4-1 record blemished only by a 20-3 mugging at the hands ofthe Pitt Panthers. Meanwhile, under the misdirection ofCoach Earle Bruce, the Buckeyes have changed their offensive philosophy from "three yards and a cloud of dust" to "three feet and an interception." 
Ohio State's recent follies aside, Saturday's matchup retains considerable importance in the Big Ten scheme of things. Through the first six weeks of the season, what used to be known as the "BigTwo and Little Eight" has disintegrated into the "Little Ten." For each of the past two weeks, Illinois has been the conference's lone representative in the wire services' Top 20 polls, while Michigan and Ohio State have taken their lumps from non-conference foes. 
But there remain a few questions which need to be answered before the Illini can pack their bags for Pasadena. First and foremost, Illinois has yet to beat a quality team. The Illini may have been able to boast about their 45-24 victory at Minnesota until the Gop­hers proceeded to blow a 21-3 lead against Northwes­tern the following week. 
Second, while there have been many pretenders to the throne, jointly held for the past decade and a halfby Michigan and Ohio State, only Michigan State in 1978 and Iowa in 1981 have grabbed a piece of the Big Ten championship durin~ that time. 
Ohio State, even in its present state of chaos, can provide Illinois with a huge dose ofcredibility. Defeat­ing the Bucks would be a far cry from pounding the likes 
of Northwestern, Syracuse, and Purdue and it would be the lllini's first victorv over either Michigan or OSU in 30 tries. 
Illinois as the Big Ten's representative in the Rose Bowl has intriguing possibilities. Even though Hayden Fry's Iowa team bludgeone,d its way to the conference 
...SportsBriefs 
continuedfrom page 10 
Head Coach Jack Patera and General Manager 
John Thompson were fired yesterday by the Seattle Seahawks, who named Mike McCormack interim coach for the remainder of the 1982 National Football League season. McCormack, fired as head coach of the Baltimore Colts at the end of last season, was the Seahawks' director offootball operations. -AP 
Kathy Ray and Claire Henryscored goals Tues­
day as the Notre Dame field hockey team ran its record to 11· 3 by defeating the University of Chicago, 2-0, in Chicago. The Irish women will take on Marion College tomorrow afternoon at Alumni Field -The Observer. 
The Belles volleyballteam will take on Bethel Col· lege in a match set for the Angela Athletic Facility at Saint Mary's this evening. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's basketball team will continue 
tryouts today and tomorrow from 6 to 8 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. They will also be held Saturday morning from 9 to 11. For more information, call Tim Dillon at 284-5548.-The Observer 
Stepan Centercourtstare now available w halls and groups. Reservations for the Nov. 1 to April 8 period must be made by tomorrow. Reservation forms are available at the Student Ac· tivities Office in the Lafortune Student Center. -The Observer 
The ND Rowing Club will hold a mandatory meeting tonight at 8:30 in the LaFortune Little Theatre for all mem­bers racing at the Head ofthe Charles. Bring your check book. -The Observer 
Coach Digger Phelps will be holding tryouts for walk-on basketball hopefuls this Sunday evening at 7 in the ACC Pit. -Tbe Observer 
Coach Sharon Petro's Irish women's tennis squad will wrap up its season this afternoon with a 3:~0 match against Val­paraiso University. The ND women will be putting their"-~ record on the line at the Courtney Tennis Center. -The Observe, 

CraigChval 
title last fall, the Hawkeyes showed their true colors in the Rose Bowl. Once they got on the field against Wash­ington, they looked like a typical Bo Schembechler team dressed in Pittsburgh Steeler uniforms -one, two, three, punt, and then hope the defense can score enough points to win. The Illini, on the other hand, will win ifthey have the ball last. Quarterback Tony Eason is so good that its seems ridiculous that the Illinois ad­ministration put up with Dave Wilson's courtroom battles as long as it did. Eason is even better than Wil­son, who passed for 621 yards in a one-touchdown loss to OSU in 1980. With "Champaign Tony" filling the Pasadena skies with footballs, Illinois would have a real 
chance to beat the Pac Ten champ at its own game. 
A healthy injection of juco transfers has transformed 
the Illinois defense, victimized in 1981 by a 70-21 Mich­
igan blitz, Schembechler's annual revenge on Illinois for 
dumping his buddy Gary Moeller as head coach, into a 
respectable, if not spectacular unit. The Illini harassed 
Dan Marino into four interceptions, and both Panther 
touchdowns came courtesy ofturnovers by the offense. 
But the very idea of Illinois picking up the Big Ten 
gauntlet whrle all around it the powers that be of yes­
teryear are tripping over their chinstraps is even more 
interesting. Ever since the mid-1960's when the univer­
sity's slush fund was uncovered, until 1981, when the 
conference placed the school on probation, stemming 
from the Wilson affair, Illinois has been the blacksheep 
of the Big Ten. The idea that White, who made even 
more frienqs with his junior college invasion, might 
have the"·best team in the conference, must have Bo 
swallowing yard markers without even having to chew, 
and-gasp -White's doing it withpassing. 
It's not exactly the kind offootball Dick Butkus made popular when he was leading the Illini to their last Rose Bowl trip almost 20 years ago. But then again, who ever thought Butkus would end up drinkin~ Lite Beer. 
smerd Ht.Rf\ w\).1 HlAR \'oul 
'p:: ~ll!e-to ..etc for /:":::.. ~ "Morik uYnic. 
!cc1t:s:trrp... 
--= oe~t week l 
:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·: ....·.·:·.......·.·:-:-:-:-:.;:;:;:;:;:;-:-:•:·:·:·:·.·.·.. 

Air Force-you're commissioned as an officer in the Reserve. 
While you're in school, you'll serve 45 days a year on active duty, gaining valuable medical experience. After graduation, you will serve three or more years, the length depending on the requirements of the Service selected and years of scholarship assistance received. 
As an Armed Forces physician you'll receive officer's pay and benefits, and enjoy the advantages of working regular hours. You'll also see a diversity of patients and have opportunities to use sophisticated medical technology. 
But most important, while you're in medical school we'll help pay the bills. For more information, send in the coupon. There's no obligation whatsoever. 
~es~int~ed ~iv~re~ma~bo~r~orc~alt~ 
Professions Scholarship. I understand there is no obligation. (OS) .h I 
I 
For more information mail this coupon to: I Armed Forces Scholarships, P.O. Box C 1776, Huntington Station. NY 11746
I Check up to three: Army 0 Navy 0 Air Fon:e 0 I 
Nam•a-----------------------~---------------------SeL--M---F 
(please print)
I Addres"'---------------------Apt___ I 
C•~-------------Sta"'----------Z•P----Phone(
I Enrolled at'·--------------------------Scho•OL-------------------I 
.. (Month. Year)
I Togra-duatein'---_,.,,:.-­
-i.l 
.... 
< 
I 
L 
Pitcher Bruce Sutter is all smiles before last night's World Series Game [tJJQ between the St. Louis Cardinals and the Milwaukee Brewers. He also bad reason to be happy after the ballgame, as be got creditfor the Cards' 5-4 win, which evened the Series at a game apiece. See story on the back page. ( APPhoto) 
·~ 
] 
r 
·-~-------~-----~-~--~--------­
The Observer Thursday, October 14, 1982 page 14 

INTERHALL WEEK IN REVIEW October 3-10, 1982 
MEN'S FOOTBALL Standings 
PARSEGHIAN DIVISION 1) Dillon (3·0-0) 2) Grace (3-0-0) 3) Mornssey (1-2·0) 4) Off-Campus (0·2·1) 5) Keenan (0·2·1) 6) Flanner (1-2·0) 
LEAHY DIVISION 1) Alumnt (3·0·0) 
2) Holy Cross (2·1-0) 3) Zahm (2·1·0) 4) Stanford (1·2·0) 
> 5) C T avanaugh (1-2·0) 6) Pangborn (0·3·0) 
Notre Dame defensive tackle Mike Gann (78) "Gold Rush" spearheads the nation's top-ranked moves in to tackle Miami haljback Mark Rush defense against the run. (Photo by Ed Carroll) ROCKNE DIVISION 
1) St Ed s (2·0·0)
(49) during last Saturday's 16-14 Irish win. ND's 
2) Howard ( 1·0-1) 
3) Carroll ( t ·2·0) 
,............................................................................................'1 
4) Sonn (1·0-1) 
The Week in Inter hall 
EDITOR'S NOTE TO TEAM CAPTAINS: Beginning this week, this will be The Observer's new format for covering interhall sports. It is the only way I know to ensure that every' interhall game result is published, and the proper athletes recognized. But your coopera­tion is needed. Please call the lnterhall Office (239-61 00) with your team's results and highlights of your game (who scored, who played well, etc.) as soon as possible after your event so they can relay the information to us every week. Thank you. 
•:tt=Orpc;tpr~"'\.,or ;J'V""·; Fr~rn 1hr:rr•n•ts 
CONCERTS WEST & BARBARA STROUM PRESENT 
r;n l.-c1~ 1dUI H111 
i YOUR BSN IS WORTH AN 
~ OFFICER'S COMMISSION
i IN THE ARMY. 
~ Your BSN means you're a professionaL In the Army, it also 
> ~ means you're an officer. You start as a full-fledged member ofouri medical team. Write: Army Nurse Opportunities, ~ P.O. Box 7713, Burbank, CA 91510. 
~ ARMY NURSE CORPS.
i BE ALLYOU CAN BE. 
8) Walsh (0-4) 
t......................................................................................~ ' ' 
Note to team captains: Please report your game results to the lnterhall Offtce (239·6 t 00) as soon as poss1ble after the game is played so that all the results can appear every week in The Observer. 
MEN'S SOCCER Note to team captains: Many game results have not been reported to the lnterhall Office Please call 
WAsHiNGTON INTERNslii 
..... • '·I ;r··, u Ser J,, !f· · "t,., .) 0 a,•eraqf• 
5) F1sher (0-3·0) 
Last Week's Highlight Gary Purk booted a 37-yard fteld goal1n the wamng 
~ 
seconds to allow Alumni to beat Holy Cross. 3·0. 1n a battle of unbeatens m the Leahy DiviSIOn. 
Last Week's Results 
~ 
St Ed s 24, Ftsher 0 Sonn 8. Carroll 0 Zahm 3, Pangborn 0 Grace 8, Momssey 0 
Cavanaugh 7, Stanford 6 Alumni 3, Holy Cross 0 D1llon 14, Keenan 6 
i 
~ 
Flanner 14, Off-Campus 6 
! 
i ~ WOMEN'S FOOTBALL Standings 
1) Lew1s (4·1) 
2) Pasquenlla West (3·1) 
i~ 
2) Pasquenlla East (3-1) 
2) Breen· Phillips (3-1) 5) Farley (3·2) 6) Badtn (1·41 6) Lyons (1·4) 
• Unrque lnternshrps tJasecJ nn yow '<.·rests Work w1lh mf"mbP.rs of Con­
;;r:ss rn \tlPir olhcr.s :Jrl<l on thE;Ir c:nm­•.rtltees 
• 
Semrnars w1th lr::acJ,nq qovcrnmont e~ >.Jerts tocus1nq on current r>OI1cy ·ssuec; 

• 
Washmgton Faculty headccl tJy 1he cha1rman of the Conqress1onal Intern Aov,sory Counc11 

• 
Drscussron Groups to share Infor­


mation ana op1n1ons Wilt'l fellow student . part1c1pants from around the country 
Fd,ng oeadl1ne for SemP.ster II November 1 For appl,cat,ons ancJ ,nforrnat1on 
Wash1ngton Leg1slat1ve Internship Program College of l1bera1 Arts Room 302 725 Commonwealth Avenue. Boston MA 02215 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 617 353-2408 
SUNDAY, OCTOBER 17 SPM 
TICKETS ON SALE NOW ALL SEATS RESERVED: $9.50 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT RIVER CITY RECORDS, SUSPENDED CHORD. BUTTERFLY REC JROS. WARSAW: WORLD Of SOUND & LIGHT. PLYMOUTH; GClDD~DUNDS. KNOX. JA"S MUSIC. LAPORT~; <.;.HECK"AD fLA<i. . < · •. · ~... , .• ·. -~ . · >.M.tcttl~~tH1l~R~QRW:_A~D. ~lf'Qtt.ftA~. :3-~< ._ f·J:t.~ ,~_:-:·~.. · ~/ ~r~~: 


239-6100 to report all game scores. tncludmg from the begmnrng of the season, so that standtngs.can be determmed Also, please conttnue to report you scores after every game so that they can be published 1n The Observer. 
CROSS-COUNTRY Results from October 7 lnterhall Cross Country Meet 
Highlights: Teammates Greg Allen and Dan Shannon led Mornssey Hall lo the VICtory tn the first tnterhaH cross country meet of the fall. Mornssey s top five placing runners all comptled ttmes under the 
13:40 mark Next meet: Thursday. October 14 
Team Results 
1) Momssey 
2) St. Ed·s ·A 
3) Flanner 4) D1llon 
5) Holy Cross 
6) Grace 
7) Pangborn 
Individual Results 
1) Greg Allen (Momssey) 
2) Dan Shannon (Mornssey) 
3) T1m McMahon (Off-Campus) 
4) Bob Healy (Momssey) 
5) Pat Wagoner (St Ed s "A) 
6) Jeff Westover (Mornssey) 
7) B1ll Cammarar (Zahm) 
8) Dave Mohlman (St Ed"s ·A) 
9) Tim Hart1gan (Morrissey) 
10) Bobby Bligh (Fianner) 
16-INCH SOFTBALL 
··The last of Fozzre s Bears. the Dillon Hall entry 
captained by Rob Berner. wrll take on·· Floyd's Under 
Privileged· lrom Zahm Hall (captained by Dan Mater) 
th1s week for the champ,onshlp 
CO-REC SOFTBALL 
"The Forget-Me-Nots." coached by Sus1e Travis, defeated Mark Schomogy1 s 'We Wanna Take Two. 10-7, last week to clatm the co-ree softball champton­ship 
GOLF 
Two-Man Best-Ball Tournament 
The team ol Jim Reed and Matt 0 Toole won the NVA two-man best-ball tournament last week at the Burke Memonal Golf Course with a team score of 76 The team of Atck Green and Mtke Y asenchak fm1shed second w1th a 77, one stroke behind 
WATER POLO 
"The lustbombs. v1ctors ol the w1nners bracket with zero losses, w1ll take on "The Rock Lobsters Sttll. · champions of the losers bracket w1th one loss. this week to dec1de the champiOnShip of the double elim1nat1on tournament The "Lustbombs need JUSt one wm to capture the title. whereas the "Lobsters·· need to win tw1ce to cla1m the championship 
---~---~--~-~-~--~ ------~ -------,-----~-------~--­
Ihe~rver========================================== 
'JI['~4[]1l~~============================T=h=u=r=s=d=ay='=O=c=t=o=b=e=r=1=4=,=1=9=8=2===p=a=g=e=1::5 
Doonesbury 
7!?ENot.X, 71-1£ NEIA/ YOfiX-BA:£!1 PCTR/XJ-{811/CAL. COMP!WY, 15 
I'IJWSEUIN6 ~ 16 II Sh'AI<£. 
I Pf<OPI'J5t3 7HAT«£ MOI'l' 70 
ACI)'J/1?& ~LLIN6 INTfil£5TI 

Simon 
Ul\... ~OHS";,OR ... MY l'AfER ... 
~ OOr-/'T &OT IT. \
IGHT? i KNOW. > KNoW, 
I 

I W'l Y'IA~I TO HER~ 1\ro:Jf YoUR \OtJGI-t Y'/EEK f\1'41> ~LL YOUR C.l-~".:l.SES. 11'~ GE.HING 1OL'D! u:f;) 1-\E~~ A@P LIE. O~E YOUf\ iMI\GIN/TnDN, ~\('1\0N! I 

Aspirin Man 
(-, ,-.('1 13.--1-l-t '­
(j(I !  ? 5 (  f2 ·< !"_:, ~  
;il'vC  CCN.,...rlK  /112E  
GN  rifE  r.'t-E((I I  

The Daily Crossword 

...-~1 
• 
-

Garry Trudeau 
)eb Cashin 
I WA':> "DaRN Pt t'CDR 'Bl.A(K CI\ILO... 
GCOD -::,Tf1f\T . 1 
\ 
I 

David). Adams 
ltHtsf' -r~1£vr;: AI[! G~r)JG ro H/lll[ TC ' t. EAR ;t-r 1-i A t THE 5 f 
CVIL. ·-t.RR.Il3i.l 'R-t'J£') 
,r}).t•;t -~.I 
L .1~s r 
4.1A"Vrotlf 
..:r..vAcA;',Avo 
No...-.r .,....,A/k z 
......... "' 
I!J.«o.., • .., ~Ac.: 
Campus 
•12 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Political Significance of the Law Code of Hammurabi of Babylon," Prof. Norman Yoffee, Library Lounge 

•1 
2 p.m. -4 p.m. -Arts and Letters Career Day, Lafortune Ballroom 

•3:30 
p.m. -Tennis, ND Women vs. Valparaiso, Courtney Courts 

• 
3:30p.m. -Seminar, "A Worthy Heir: The Role of Family and Religion in the Formation ofCharles Carroll of Carrollton, 1737-1""7-t," Prot: Ronald Hoffman, Library Lounge 

•·4::10 
p.m.-Mathematical Colloquium, "Some Aspects of the Theory of Compact Complex Homogeneous Manifolds," Prof. Reinhardt Remm­ment llniversitv of Munster, 226 CCMB 

•6:_.,(l 
p.m. , AISEC General Meeting, LaFortune Little Theatre 

•7, 
9, ami I I p.m. -Film, "Casablanca," Engineering Auditorium. Sponsored by ND Prelaw Society, SI.OO •-p.m. -Symposium, On St. Teresa of Avila, Registration in the CCE, S20 

•..,:30 
p.m. Film, "H'\", Architecture Auditorium. Sponsored hy Program in American Studies. 52.00 

•H 
p.m. -St. Teresa of Avila Symposium, "The Woman Theologian and Ideal of Christian Wis­dom." Sandra Schneider. CCE 

•H 
p.m. -Film, "Oedipus Rex," Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Program of Liberal Studies, 

•H 
p.m. -Lecture, Author of the book "Missing". Thomas Hauser, Sponsored by SliAC 

•H 
p.m.-ND-SMC Theatre Production, "The Taming of the Shrew," O'Laughlin Auditorium, 


52. SO for students 
•9 p.m. -NAZZ, Lewis Hall Talent Night, NAZZ 
T.V. Tonight 


6p.m_. 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
Sp.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 
10p.m. 
!0:30p.m. 
llp.m. 11:30p.m. 
~ ­
YES :::-:-L '('5, r1 1[ ',~,_. .::( 

16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness New~ 28 Newswatch 28 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 16 M•A•s•H 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 16 ~arne 22 Magnum PI 28 _loanie l.ov~s Chachi 34 ~neak Preview' 28 The Star of the Familv 34 This Old House 16 Cheers 22 Simon and Simon 28 Too Close liJr Comfort 34 Odyssey 16 Taxi 16 Hill Street Blue' 22 Knot' Landing 28 20/20 34 The Year That Time Changed 34 ln,ide llusine'' Today 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The Dick Cavett Show 16 Tonight Show 22 Quincy and McCloud 28 ABC New' Nightline 34 Captioned ABC News 
28 Vegas 16 late Night with David letterman 
ACROSS Biblical weed 
5 Der ­(Adenauer) 
9 Excuse me! 13 Wild goat 14 Bounds 16 Single 17 A utility: 
abbr. 18 Debar, 
legally 19 Membrane 20 Automatic 
response 
22 Fighter of evil spirits 
24 WWII power 26 Possessive 27 Snoops 
30 Vital person in business 
34 Tropical 
trees 35 Bathed 37 Before 38 Poor me! 39 Timid 40 Goddess of 
discord 41 Hardened 42 Uncovers 43 Wheel 
holders 44 Breakfast 
item 46 Vast plains 48 Put on ­
(act snooty) 
Wednesday's Solution 

©1982 Tribune Company Synoicate, Inc. 10/14/82 All Rights Reserved 

.. 
I~-------------------·,\
1 appecuing •······THe Wandells 1 I atChaubmgua I 
II II 
·La Fortane Ballroom 
I I
$1
00 Admission 9'"-1Z"' 
I FrldayOct. 15 I 
\ I 
~·-------------------' 
50 Skating 
jump 51 Thrusting forth 
55 Biblical 
piophet 59 Tow 60 Podiatric 
concern 62 Unemployed 63 Donated 64 Venomous 
snake 65 Night light 66 Spotter 57' Recedes 68 Dolts 
DOWN 1 Row 2 "A"asin­3 Coral 
ridge 4 Speaks vehemently 
5 Father of Peter the Great 
6 Bandleader Brown 7 London museum 
8 Kindof glue 9 Verbal 
uproar 
10 "The­love" 11 Buddies 
12 Bed part 15 Frightened, as a horse 21 Former 
spouses 23 Regretted 25 Plexus or 
energy 27 City on the Willamette 28 Home, for 
one 29 Wheel hubs 31 Haggard 
of song 32 Zodiac sign 33 Loch­34 El-, Tex. 36 Sight 39 Irish saint 40 Goes into 
detail 42 So­43 Simians 45 More 
extensive 47 Is 49 Make zzzs 51 Brink 52 Picture 
of sorts 53 Roof 
overhang 54 Seize 56 Creative 
thought 57 Drooping 58 Layers 61 Pen point 

·----------~-------~~---------~--------------­
.­
Thursday, October 14, 1982-page 16 
SQorts 
Loss to Akron 
Irishsoccer hopes doused, 5-l ­
• 
By SAM SHERRILL free on a breakaway and sent the ball crossbar and fell at the teet of Sports Writer wide right. Borkauski, who kicked it into the But the Zips broke on top at right side of the net. Freshman Mark The Notre Dame soccer team 25:45. Matt English got the ball in Steranka then replaced McCarthy in 
went into yesterday's match against front of the net, made a beautiful goal. the University of Akron with high turn and booted it into the right cor­After a free kick from in close, Ken hopes. They had just stretched their ner past the outstretched hand of Harkenrider got the ball with the unbeaten string to five games on Gerard McCarthy. whole right side of the net open to Tuesday with a 2-0 victory at the Akron doubled its lead at 32:29, as him. But his shot kicked oft the post 
University ofChicago. Furthermore, Ray Szabat got the ball at the top of and was cleared. Minutes later, at they seemed to have finally found the box and blasted it to McCarthy's 83:53, Akron made it 5-0 as Szabat their scoring machine up front in left. But the Irish had a great chance scored his second ofthe game. sophomore Rich Herdcgen, who just two minutes later, as the referee 
It looked like zip was all the Irish notched both goals. Herdegen awarded an indirect kick to the Irish 
were going to get off the Zips, but, scored for the fifth straight game, deep in the Zip penalty box. Mario 
with only 46 seconds left, Manta one shy of the Notre Dame record, Manta's shot, however, was 
spoiled the shutout bid by kickingand had nine goals for the season. deflected out of bounds. 
the ball from about twenty yards out Akron, however, was seventh in A~ron closed out the first-half just over the goalkeeper's head. the country and had just barely lost, 
scormg at 39:21. A hard shot In defense of the Irish, it was their 1-0, to Indiana, .a team that crushed bounced off .the crossbar and J. B.,... fourth game in six days. They were the Irish 4-0. And the Zips played Am.angoua ktcked m the reboun~umissing captain Jav Schwartz, who like a national contender yesterday whtle on the ground. However, the will be out for abou"t two weeks with 
in disposing ofthe Irish S-1. Irish still had a ray of hope as a Zip an ankle sprain suffered against Wes­Early on, it was all Notre Dame, as defender got ejected for receiving tern Michigan.
the Irish were working the ball well his second yellow card. 
Notre Dame did not play one of on offense and covering on defense. Things got worse in the second their better games. The team lacked
Steve Berry cranked up and smacked half. At 52:39, the Zips got number the speed to keep up with a team like a beautiful shot just by the right cor­four from Les Borkauski. A shot from Akron for ninety minutes, especially. 
ner of the net. Dominick Driano got the left side skimmed across the after all the games played lately. One bright spot for the Irish was the sight oftri-captain Mike Sullivan in a game for the first time this year. Sullivan had missed the first half ofthe season with a bad charley-horse. He saw about fifteen minutes ofaction.
Sutter, Cardinals shut off Brewers, even Series 
The Irish record fell to 8-4-2. The 
ST. LOUIS (AP) -Pinch-hitter hit to Charlie Moore in the eighth winner of Milwaukee's pennant­the ball and nip the Brewers' leftfiel­next game is Friday night at Cartier Steve Braun walked with the bases but escaped unscathed when Jim clinching game and of one of the der. Field against the Blue Demons of loaded to drive in the winning run in Gantner grounded to first. In the ALCS games was gone the next in­The Brewers had jumped to a 3-0 DePaul. After that, the Irish will have the eighth inning and relief ace ninth, Paul Molitor led off with a ning and replaced by McClure. after 2.5 innings, scoring oru:e in the only .one more game at home, Bruce Sutter slammed the door on bunt for his seventh hit in two After the two-out double by second and twice in the third off against Grace College November 2. 
Milwaukee as the St. Louis Cardinals games, tying a Series record. Cooper -his third hit of the game Stu per. Between those two gaines, the team rebounded from the indignity of 24 Molitor, however, was gunned -in the Milwaukee seventh, Sutter With one out in the second, Gor­Will play six road games in fourteen hours earlier to even the 79th World down trying to steal second by Por­came in from the bullpen and inten­man Thomas walked on four pitches. days. The season is due to get more Series at one game apiece with a 5-4 ter, whose two-run double in the tionally walked Simmons. Ozzie Roy Howell, the next Milwaukee hit­hectic, but if the Irish can pull to­victory over the Brewers last night. sixth tied the score. Smith then made a sensational ter, grounded into a forceout and ad­gether, they can win remainder of 
As their manager, Whitey Herzog, From there, Sutter breezed home inning-ending play on Oglivie's vanced to second on a wild pitch by their games. If that happens, post­had told them the night before, as Robin Yount grounded out and bouncer up the middle, coming to season play might not be out of the when they lost Game One I 0-0, the Cecil Cooper flied out to center to the right field side ofsecond to glove See SERIES, page 12 question.
' ' 
Cardinals turned the page in this end the game. year's Series book. The Cardinals had tied the score 
After taking today off for travel, 4-4 with two runs in the sixth, as the the Series resumes tomorrow night crowd of 53,723 at Busch Stadium at Milwaukee County Stadium with finally had something to cheer Pete Vuckovich going for Mil­about. 
Northwestern bids final farewell 
waukee against St. Louis'Joaquin An­After Tommy Herr struck out dujar. looking to start the inning, Ken 
Authors' note: The Bottom Ten bas always intended
Trailing 4-2, the Cardinals tied the Oberkfell jerked a single to right score with two runs in the sixth in­field. Oberkfell, who had stolen just 
to offend as many people as possible. Without excep­ning, then won it in the eighth with 1 1 bases during the season, then tion, it is a tasteless work ofquestionablejournalistic ethics. Parental discretion is advised. 
the bases-loaded walk to Braun, who stole second as Milwaukee catcher 
had driven in only four runs during Ted Simmons' throw was well offthe And so, the Kittens ofNorthwestern fade into Bottom
the season. mark. A fly to medium right field by Her­Ten mythology. The Executive Committee met in
Keith Hernandez started the win­ning rally when he walked on four nandez sent Oberkfell to third and emergency session this week to perform a sad duty. 
There were many old stories told, and more than a few 
pitches from reliever Bob McClure. Brewer starter Don Sutton showed his first sign of wildness. He walked tears shed. But the outcome was inevitable. Here are the rankings, y'all: 
George Hendrick forced Hernandez The Mildcats, a Bottom Ten fixture, were banned
at second, and Darrell Porter, the George Hendrick on a 3-2 pitch and Cardinals' playoff MVP, followed the Cardinals had runners at the cor­from the poll for the remainder ofthe year after beating 1) Oregon (0-5) 
with a single that chased McClure ners. Big Ten leader Minnesota. didn't play -but didn't lose either and sent Hendrick to second. The crowd, which alternately had Sigh. 2) Memphis State (0-5) Milwaukee Manager Harvey booed and cheered the home team, There was some other news for voters to mull over ditto 
Kuenn countered with his best was in a frenzy ofanticipation, stand­this week. 3) Eastern Michigan (0-5) ing and cheering as Porter, their The Burt Lancaster "Bird Man of Alcatraz" Award and the beat goes on, and on, and ...
available reliever. rookie Pete Ladd, who had faced 10 men in the playoffhero, came to the plate. went to the University ofTexas. That makes two weeks 4) Purdue (0-5) 
in a row that the Longhorns have been honored in one their streak could reach double digits vs. Northwestern 
But Ladd walked Lonnie Smith on championship Series to earn the form or another. 5) Rice (0-5) This week, the award recognizes the unique ability of 
playoffs and had retired them all. Porter, who batted .556 in the NL 
ac 3-2 pitch to load the bases, bring­Most Valuable Player award, took Owls just don't give a hoot ing up Braun, who was batting for Sutton's first pitch, a ball. Sutton the Longhorns to endure cruel and unusual punishment 6) Virginia (0-5) 
David Green. came back with a fastball on the at the haml.s of the NCAA. whither Ralph Sampson? Braun never saw a strike and outside corner, a called strike, as Wednesday, the powers-that-be in Shawnee Mission 7) Richmond (0-5) announced that Texas had been placed on probation for Spiders caught in their own web
Hendrick scored the winning run as Porter looked at home plate umpire Bill Haller in astonishment. violating recruiting regulations (by giving gifts to a 8) Michigan State (0-5)
the Busch Stadium crowd erupted. recruit) and allowing another athlete to sell his com­
Ladd finally ended the inning. as With McClure and jim Slaton war­Muddy Waters sings the blues Willie. McGee lin~d to short and ming up for Milwaukee, Sutton plimentary tickets to an athletic department official for 9) Texas Southern (0-5-1) Ozzie Smith's single struck Bruan in threw his third pitch to Porter, who "a sum substantially over face value." not to be confused with Mexico Northern As "punishment" for these heinous crimes, a one-year 10) Kentucky (0-4-1)
the leg, but the Cardinals already swung wildly and missed for a 1-2 had averted a predicament from count. probation was imposed. have another mint julep, the Derby's seven months which no World Series team ever Herzog then gambled. He had But it was retroactive to September 23, and "includes away has escaped. No team ever has won Hendrick running on the next pitch, 
no sanctions." Presumably, that means that more than just bread and water will be served at Horn training Also Receiving Votes:
the Series after losing the first two and Porter poked the offering into games at home. the left-field corner, scoring both tables. Kent State (0-5) Oberkfell and Hendrick. Porter was Speaking ofTexas football -there are several teams Colorado (1-4)
Sutter, meanwhile, finished off a fine performance by the bullpen. credited with a double but reached from that part of the country that d(> not appear in the Tulane (1-4) 
because they are
Earlier Jim Kaat and Doug Bair had third when Milwaukee left fielder poll this week. But that's not un­Ohio State (2-3) ~llowed one run in relief of rookie Ben Oglivie's throw sailed through worthy. starter John Stuper. Sutter came in the infield for an error. It was Mil­Texas-EI Paso is I-5. Texas-Arlington and West Texas Quote ofthe Week: State are each l-4. Texas Tech, Texas Christian, and · Kent State Coach Ed Chlebek, after his team lost to
with two outs in the seventh after waukee's first World Series error. 


.. 
Bair allowed a double to Cecil Sutton escaped further damage by Texas A&M arc all 2-3. Iowa State, 42-7: "I wasn't impressed at all by Iowa State . 
striking out Lonnie Smith, who has All of that just substantiates the Bottom Ten saying: I can see why they only got three points against Ok­
Cooper. Sutter allowed a two-out infield yet to get a hit in the Series, but the "They do things in a big way in Texas." lahoma." , 

