• .Halloween -page 8 


VOL XVII. NO: H tht: IIH.kpt:nocnt ..,ruJcnt nt.'\P.p;.tptT ..,t:n mg notre J;.~nw ano ..,atnt mat)··-. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1982 
Confiscated Tylenol 
Authorities find more cyanide 
CHICAGO (AP)-Another lmttk Brzeczek also called "significant" Eugene Burke. ofExtr:J-Strcngth Tylenol contaimng tile fact that the lot number on the About SO calls have been logged cyanide-laden capsules was t\)Und ncwlv discovered contaminated at two New York horlinc number~ by authorities checking bottles nr­bottle -.\IC 2HHO -was the same publicized Wednesday. ~ome with dcred pulled from store shelves Oct. hatch that was found to have been leads that had to be followed up. but 2, Police Superintendent Richard taken by four of the other victims. no "hot" clues. Burke said. Brzeczek said yesterday. .\II four people were residents of It was a photo of the bearded 
He said the bottle was found in Chicago suburbs. Lewis, wanted on a federal warrant shelf stock turned over to authori­.\leanwhile. police and FBI agents for trymg to extort SI million from ties by Dominick's Finer Foods. a in :'licw York City said yesterday they .\1cNeil Consumer Producb that led 
grocery store within a mile of the were working \ll1 the assumption a hotel resident to call police this Walgreen's Drug Srore where the thai ~;:1~1es \\. Lewis. wanted for week. seventh reported Tylenol cyanide questioning in the Tylenol killings. After interviewing residents at the poisoning victim, Chicagoan Paula and his wife, Lcann, were still in the old hotel on Lexington Avenue and 
Prince, purchased a 24-capsule city and continued their search. checking tlngcrprints found there, bottle ofthe painkiiler. The Lewises checked out of the the FBI determined the couple had 
Mayor Jane Byrne banned sales of Rutledge Hotel on Saturday, where stayed at the hotel, under the alias the best-selling over-the-counter they had bee living in a S9S-per­Richardson, from Sept. 6 to Oct. 16. pain remedy at a news conference week room since Sept. 6. The seven FBI officials have emphasized that called to announce that Chicago people who swallowed poisoned Lewis was not a suspect in the deaths police had discovered the body of Tylenol capsules died between Sept. and that they had "no evidence" to Miss Prince, 55, in her apartmem on 29 and Oct. I. link him to them. They say, however, Oct. 1. "lfhc's in New York, we expect to that they do want to talk to him 
Byrne also requested that city get him. no question," said Capt. <!bout the killing~. merchant~ turn shelf and stock supplies ofTylenol into city authori­ties for testing. 
Brzeczek said .\!cNeil Consumer 
Reagan to tell Arabs 
Products Co., the manufacturer of Tylenol, contracted with a laboratory to test the stock turned 
to recognize Israel
over by store owners. 
He said the discovery of the latest WASHINGTON (AP)-President and includes the foreign ministers of
contaminated capsules was made at 
Reagan will tell Arab leaders that the Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Algeria, Syriathat lab yesterday. 
road to peace in the Middle East re­and Tunisia. A representative of the quires them to "come our of the Palestine Liberation Organization is closet" and openly recognize Israel, attached to the group, but will not a senior State Department official be received here, U.S. officials said. said yesterday. The delegation wants to explain


El Salvador abuses continue 
Brietlng reporters on a visit by a the Arab plan to Reagan in a meeting six-nation delegation from the Arab at the White House today. Reagan League, the official said there are also will lobby for his own peace in­

WASHINGTON ( AP) -Despite formauon. the rea~ons sLtggestt:d for from a decision to concentrate the some "constructive elements" in ".Ill itiative, unveiled Sept. I.
twice certifying human righb it vary. few U.S. intelligence "assets" in El Arab peace plan adopted last month The senior official, who talked to
progress in El Salvador, the Reagan Some say scarce intelligence Salvador on the actions of leftist at Fez, Morocco. reporters on the understanding he
administration has done little to in­resources had to be devoted to guerrillas. 

studymg the leftbt insurgency. "You go back to the '"'9-80 time But he also said it is essential that would not be identitled, said the
vestigate allegations that Salvadoran moderate Arab nations, especially purpose of the visit is to exchange
security forces have killed Others cite the ban on U.S. military frame, the answer is that there were thousands of unarmed civilian~. advisers going with troops into com­almost no assets, and then as the as­
Saudi Arabia, give jordan a mandate views and "restore momentum" to to negotiate with Israel on behalf of the search for a lasting Arab-Israeli

according to U.S. officials and a bar areas and the difti.culty ofassess­sets were built up, they were con­Palestinians in the Israeli-occupied peace. "We do nor expect a dramatic
House report. ing criminal cases in another centrated on what was judged to be These sources say l!.S. intel­country. the highest priority problem," the West Bank and Gaza Strip. He said he breakthrough, but rather a thought­thinks Kirig Hussein of]ordan would ful discussion," he said.

ligence agencies have developed Still others ~uggest the administra­guerrilla threat, Inman said in an in­scant information on the govern­tion does not want information that terview. negotiate if he has Arab backing. Israel has rejected both the U.S. ment's alleged involvement in could embarrass the U.S.-backed 
The Arab League delegation is and Arab approaches, bur the 
See RIGHTS, page 6 
headed by Morocco's King Hassan Reagan administration still hopes it

rightist death squads and charges government. can convince Prime Minister Menac­
that Salvadoran troops fire on non­Retired Adm. Bobby R. Inman, hem Begin's government to join a
combatants during sweeps through who stepped down as deputy CIA 

the countryside. But while there is a director in June, said the absence of new round of peace negotiations withJordan.
general consensus on the lack of in-intelligence on the right resulted Israeli Foreign Minister Yirzhak Shamir conferred here yesterday with Secretary of State George P. Shultz, primarily on Lebanon.

Social Democrats 
The senior official said the con-
See PEACE, page 6

discuss alternatives 
By PA.!\1 RICHARI' ON problems. .'llews Staff Schantz discus~ed the idea that 
Observer 
"every person regardless of race, • Social democran ,_' >uld possibly sex, or financial situation. can reap on vacatton be considered "an alternative we the benetlts of society." This is the 
. • 1

have to deal with in this decade of Social Democrab alternative. she challenges," according to a lecture emphasized. 
overoreaK 
by the youth organizer of the Schantz believes that there are 
The Observer will not publish
Democratic Socialbt~ of America. great inequalities in wealth that next week because offall break The 
Penn~ Schantz, in her lecture last weaken democracy 111 America. For Observer will resume publishingnight in the librarv auditorium en­example. she believes that Tuesday, Nov. 2.
titled "What is Democratic "education should be a right and a Socialism'" argued that people are privilege," even though going to col­'happy -1\~\.lo\lcz.<r.-n.l dying on the job. women and men lege is seen as a privilege today. An­arc thrown out of the labor market. other major problem Schantz "" ,Jf"' social services arc being slashed. and discussed was the lack of national ~~···
~vi"·. ~' ~:i f' ~ ~ ~~ -!_" . 
student loans are being taken away. health insurance in the l'nited 
t~~:'.\t~~ -s~:;· :;l. -~ 
The DSA desparately wants, States. 
"through their vision of social ,.$>\ ~:'1 ----p~ '?l ":,.See DSA,-page 6 ~v!-~;,·~-1.;....... ;.­
democracv." to change these 



~·-··-------------------------~--·-------~ 
I 
r • r I 


News Brie/§ 
Bv 7be Ohseruer and The Associated Press 
Earth tremors in Italy in the past week caused 

minor widening ofcracks on three 14th century frescoes by Giotto 
in the famous Basilica of San Francesco in Assisi. The damaged 
frescoes -St. Francis with the Pope, Crib ofGreccio and Apparition 
of St. Agostino -had been scheduled to undergo restoration last 
year but work was suspended for lack offunds, authorities said Wed­
nesday. "In a certain sense, the tremors ors have reactivated plans to 
restore frescoes by Giotti here," said Father Vincenzo Coli, a priest in 
charge of the Sacred Convent of Francis ofAssisi. -AP 
AJewish resident of Kiryat Arba, in the 

occupied West Bank, was dragged from his motorbike and stabbed in the neighboring Arab town of Hebron, Israel radio said yesterday. A curfew was imposed on the town and police searched for the as­sailants of Zvi Segal, the radio said. The report said the Kiryat Arba local council had demanded a public apology from the mayor of Hebron or the replacement ofthe Hebron municipality by the Israeli civil administration in the West Bank. "In 15 years, we have not received one official apology for the spillingpfJewish blood," coun­cil head Aharon Dom told the radio. In the most serious such inci­dent in Hebron in recent times, Arab gunmen killed six jewish residents ofthe town and wounded 16 others in 1980. -AP 
After 30 years of depending on the United States for food, Pakistan has started making wheat exports, the federal Food Ministry said. The ministry said yesterday that 1,300 tons of wheat, the first of 50,000 tons contracted for, have been exported to Iran. Pakistan began importing U.S. wheat in 1952, with an average ofone million tons a year. In 1978, after harvest failures, the government began experimenting with new strains, and by 1980 reached selt~ sufficiency in food production and now produces about one million tons surplus. -AP · 
The Aetna Life & Casualty Foundation 

has given S l million to Harvard University'sJohn F. Kennedy School ofGovernment to support a professor ofpublic policy and corporate management. The position in the school's Business and Government Center will be part of a program "that will help overcome the present adversary relationship between business, government and labor," says Harvard Dean Graham T. Allison. "Business has an in­volvement, a stake, a role in a variety of public policy issues that do not immediately and directly impact upon us," John H. Filer, chair­man ofAetna Life & Casualty Co. of Hartford, Conn., said Wednesday. 
-AP 
A man did not breakMichigan's criminal trespass law when he scaled the outside of a 39-story tower in the Detroit's Renaissance Center office-hotel complex, a judge says. The reason: there were no signs posted to tell Kenneth Rick, 31, of Detroit to keep off the building. "This wasn't the brightest thing in the world, hut he wasn't trespassing," District Judge John Perry said Wednes· day "It wasn't done for publicity because it was well before dawn and nobody saw him. There wasn't a notice for him not to climb up the building and he came inside when asked," said Perry. -AP 
An Indianapolis manwho was gunned down while repairing his stately northside home may have been trying to protect his wife and home from robbers, an Indianapolis homicide detective said. Robert F. Falkner, 41, was watching the World Series and caulk­ing windows under a spotlight in front of his home Tuesday night when he was confronted by two men with whom he argued, police said. "The argument may have ensued because he knew his wife was inside and he was going to go to an extreme to keep them from going into the house," said homicide Dectective Sgt. Joseph W. McCoy.­
AP 
A 64-year-old man collapsed and died yesterday shortly after his warnings enabled his wife and son to escape their burning house in Morgantown, W.Va., authorities said. The body of Dorsey Edward White was found near the front door of the wood and stone house just outside the city limits, according toR. G. Dick, a dispatcher for the Monongalia.County sheriff's department. He said White had been awakened by the early morning fire and then woke up his wife, Elizabeth and son, Timothy. Mrs. White escaped through the back door and Timothy got out through a bedroom window, Dick said. White had almost reached the front door when he col· lapsed, the dispatcher said. Sheriffs Deputy Roger Magrow said it 
appeared that White died ofsmoke inhalation. -AP 
Sunny and cool today, high in the upper 4os to low 50s. Fair tonight and very cool with lows in the mid 30s. Tomor­row, mostly sunny and milder with highs in the mid 50s to about 60. 
-AP 
Friday, October 22, 1982 -page 2 
AP Photo File 
A mannequin equipped with a TV camera that peers through her eye I is displayed by store employee Ralph Bartels, who holds a TV monitor ofthe mannequins view.(AP Photo) 
U.S. Rep. Bob Michels and President Ronald Reagan seem to begesturing to each other as they leaue Air Foret? One, the presidential jet, aft~ Reagan's Wednesday arrival in Peoria to cam­paign forMichels. ( AP Photo) 
Set•en-year-old Scott McKenzie sits in the arms of his latl'man, Galt•eston Counzv Sherif's lt.john Leonard Wednesday as he arrived to a hero's welcome. Scott still sbows a scarfrom the mauling he receit•ed from a balf-wolf, half husky at his borne in St.· Louis. Leonard starteda drivefor a t•aca­tion for tbe youngster and his fami()' in Galt•eston. (AP Pboto) 
When j(Jrmer National Guardsman IJanJ' Su//il'(m of Hammond, IN receit'ed a cbeck in the mail tu•o montbs after bis dis­charge, he felt like be had just jinmd a wining lotfeiJ' ticket ­until be found that tbe check u•as onll'for tu•o cents. Sulliuan f!lans to frame the cbeck. (A!' Phr,to) 

The Observer 

Live for God and His People as a ...
l
llomc..·ward Bound 

0<•.'\ign Hditor.. .......... EaM· Bound Bunny I /Jesign. ts.,·istant.c .. Bloomtngton-hound I 
Sm.tll, AI billa Bound Rt·ggu.:, h.ampu~ I Ka~h 
CapuchinLaJ•oul Stajj.. .. ....... Earl\ lkpanur<·, l)'fJ<'·'·etters ..... Bultalo Brun.·. Tag· along­Tom, l{atht:r not :-.ay Rutherh1rd,jim' 


a what? 

\ewsl:tlilor.. ............. l:c 'Wa~ nc.· \'filkc.·n,., Copy Editor ................ ~<HHh Bend '-c..·d) 
Capuchin Franciscans are a religious 
Features l.t~)'out ........... D.C. ~tu .... umc..-cl 
fraternity of men trying to live the Gospel in 
.\juJrls Lt~rout ..... Exccuti\'c ~c..·v., hlitor 
• the Spirit of Francis of Assisi in today's
.\jJorts (.'ojJy Editor ......... Trt:\'O:o.t·-hound 
world. 
\like . 111 \tom' 
_ Join us in promoting peace, education,
lkinlre t:diloria/s f.tq•out ..... Chi<.:ago-< :t·rahona 
~..~...J. and justice--in ghettoes ... in jails ... in 
Ad /Jesign ................................ ~~oh ~lma 
~ ·-•-, soup kitchens ... in parishes ... in halfway 
Photographer. ....................... S<..:olt Bowc:r 
houses... on radio and TV.
.\'/J /Jay Editor ....................... l'im Pc..·ut·r, 
Join us in working with and for the
SJIC /Jt~J' /;'dilor.. .................. ( ;n:g ~wierct. Gue:•;t Appearulln•s .. ChurThvallc..:-Bound 
advancement of blacks, whites, Hispanics, 
:\cc(.llc:~. 'l'omm~ Technician ..\1otown­
native Americans and people of the Third 
llrown.l)c)rk 
World in Central America. 
''l'm :..iuin~ in a railway :..tawm. got a tick­
Cfleck out whether being a Capuchin, committed to living for God and his people, in the spirit of Francis, is for you. No 
c:t for my dcstinati<)n" 
The Observer , USPS :>9~ "20• '' pu011~hed Monac1y tr~r ..ugr t=r.·'!,·ty dn,~ 
obligation. Write today for more 
on h • .:,rne fu.JtOrtl. Sctlu' 1" y....., exc.ep: 
information. 
l.iunng exa.rn ttnO Vri( df,,.r~ p~:·rl· 'j::, The 
........................ Clip and Mail Today! ..... . . ........ . 
Observer~~ pubi1StleC1::; y· 'nt· ~tuden:~ 
ot Notre Dd·n~ dr.d Sa,··,: Mnry > C,•l 
Father John Holly, OFM Capuchin, 1820 Mt. Elliott Avenue, 
18Ql: SubSCIIplluns 'nny uJ ;JUI• hdSc-d 
Detroit, Ml 48207
tor S25 p«r ye.tr rS 15 per >e'nP.>ter 1 Dy w1111ng The Observer P 0 Bv> ,;; 
Yes, send me information about the Capuchin way of life. 
Notre Dame lna•and 46556 
Name Age ____
The Observer 1S a ·ne·not•r ·~~~ The Associated Press A,, repr,•duclllln 
College ________ Address
IIQhts are reserveo 
Secona .-lass ~J ...;stdgt• ;Jct:d n! Nutn· 
State ______ Zip ____
Da..-ne ~n.,\..r\... d 4t:l':)Jo 
City 

----~---------~ -----~~-­
Friday, October 22, 1982-page 3
The Observer 

Mid-term elections 
No surprises in November 
By DAN McCULLOUGH tions usually mean a much greater This election will be a future­.VewsStaff loss for the current president's oriented referendum in that the party, a loss of this magnitude will swing vote will focus exclusively .on There will be no great upsets in mark a defeat for the majority whether the voters believe that the House or Senate following the Democrats in the House. Reagan's policies will be effective in Nov. 2 elections, according to "People are amazingly patient," the future, according to Roos. If the various local sources. While there said Prof. John Roos of the Notre public believes they will work, they may be a slight tightening ofcontrol Dame Department of Government will tend to support the Republican in the Democratic House, even this about public reaction to current ad­candidates. If the Democrats recieve could be interpreted as a victory for ministration policies. He continued a large victory. it can be assumed the current administration. that there probably will not be a that the people have little faith in 
The Republicans are expected to major political victory for the Reagan's policies. lose between 20-25 seats in the Democrats in the House or the Professor Robert Huckfeldt warns House. But because mid-term elec-Senate. that the· last two weeks of the cam­
papign will prove to be the most volatile. According to a New York Times-CBS News poll, 25 percent of

Justice class gives 
all voters made their final decision during the last week of the 1980 calllpaign.

presentationto needy 
Huckfeldt also assures that the 
nuclear freeze probably will not be a By ANNE MONASTYRSK.I ofsociety," said Thomas. major issue in congressional races StaffReporter Putting theory into action hy this November. 
doing work at the rescue mission One factor that will play a sig­
Students ofthe SocialJustice Biog­made students conscious of the nificant role in the elections is the raphy class a! Notre Dame gave a diversity of society -a society recent reshaping of congressional presentation at the Hope Rescue acutely different from the sheltered district lines following the 1980 Mission, transforming classroom Notre Dame community. census. All net changt:s in the House 
theory into direct social action. "Notre Dame has a problem with are expected to take place in the 
As part of the class's biographical isolation ofits students," said Atkins. newly formed or split districts. study ofCatholic social and political "The results of this project may Both professors agree that the activist Dorothy Day. ten students prove to be consciousness-raising recent unprecedented 10.1 percent invited the class to visit the mission and help in career decision-making," unemployment rate wtll not help yesterday. concluded Atkins. the Republicans and especially 
The mission provides food. cloth­Atkins seemed very enthusiastic those that are running on ing and temporary shelter for tran­about the response of the class and Reaganomics policies. sients -those who have nowhere their personal involvement with the The Senate is expected to remain else to turn. residents of the mission. relatively stable !()!lowing this elec­
The students gave a presentation "The Hope Resette Mission tion. although there will he several on the social work to which Day was created the right atmosphere to deal close races. The Republicans seem committed, in the same type of en­with the outcome of Day's life," At­to have a tlrm grip on this branch. vironment Day spent a great part of kins remarked. "It showed the im­Although there are no singular her socially active life. Day founded pact in terms ofattitudes ofwhat she races upon which the fate of the the Catholic Worker :vlovement. a did." House and Senate majorities 
social reform movement for Cath­The Social justice Biography depend. a tew should be interesting olic blue-collar workers. Following course examines the impact dif­to watch. the presentation. the students ferent individuals have had in strug­"This midterm election is only the 
served breakfast to the transients gling for social justice in their tlrst hurdle for Reagan," says Roos. and talked to them individually. countries, Thomas noted. "But to in­The president faces a difficult Co-leaders of the social justice tegrate the thoughts of Christianity legislation year and even though the 
group. senior Dave Thomas and into action really hits you and is a economy may show signs of im­second semester junior Debbie At­conscious application of the in­provement. he may not hold a voting kins. responded with enthusiasm to dividuals' etforts... majority. their project. ''It sensitizes you to your environment and makes you 
,Observer notes________--. 

aware ofthe diversity, good and had. 
David Dziedzic, a junior from La Habra, Cal.. has been named Executive News Editor for The Ohsert1er. l)zied­
Romersets 
zic. an American Studies major. has worked for The Ob­
sen,er for the past two years, most recently as Associate 
Sports Editor. Dziedzic will assume the news position

break rules 
November I. 


after the noon meal today. Students remaining t(Jr the dinner meal will have their meal cards honored at the South Dining Hall. The South Dining Hall will close after the dinner meal 
,~~!::!.::::~~·~
today. Both dining halls will resume 
normal operating schedules with dinner on Sunday, Oct. .) I. I) The public caletera will he open for meals on a cash basis during the 
1 

hr~:ak. Their normal hours will he in effect. The Huddle scedule will he as follows: 
Today. Oct. 22 -...,:.)0 a.m.-5:00 p.m. Tomorrow and Sun.. Oct. 25 and 2-1-clos1:d .\!on.. Oct. 25-fri Oct 29 --:.)0 a.m.-5:50p.m. Sat.. On. 50 -clos~:d 
''lltn.. On. :\ l -rounH.: normal 
, · Good for Midnight shows Fri & Sat 
hour., 
GENERAL ClNE.MA THEATRES .•.•.. 
Re~;e get it.' II 
"FAST TIMES "WAITRESS" 
AT RIDGEMOHTiMOHSIGHOR 
HIGH" 2:00-4:30-~ S'hows Shows 1:30-3:30-7:00-9:30 1:45-3:30­5:30-7:30-9:30' 5:15-7:15-9:15 ~ 
·:· ..,, 

Figtting Irish midnight special 2 for 1 
·•• "ROCKY HORROR" "EXORCIST" with this ad, I "GAS PUMP GIRLS" ' 
.Hi/ton Pounds of .Veu• Orleans, u•ho specializes in stainedglass win·

Pounds 

of 
dows for churches, checks ouer a marble-/ike material called 
scagliola he produced and placed in the capitol in jackson..HississifJPi as part of a SJ'J million renm·ation project. (A.P Photo)

glass 

orr-campus Stubents OctoBeR BReakStoRaqe 
tvh Stepan CenteR 
€Q€: 

CRop o~~: thURS. 10/21/82 1 pm-5pm ~RJ. 10/22/821pm-5pm 
Sun. 10/31/824pm-Spm mon. 11/1/821pm -5pm SponsoR€<) sy 0-C Comm1ss1on 
Pickup: / 
'F"L­
e e O 
91)

~1£6 ··. ·. 
MUSIC BOX~·.··. ·. ·. ·.· ·:. ·. > ·. •
<: p~!liT[LY PRE~~:~T~ ~~:-~?N£E[Te:.?~ 

THIS WEEKEND, A TRIBUTE TO 
Jim Morrison and the Doors WITH THE BAND 
RIDERS ON THE STORM 
I WvilhiScpetcriaolGlr~aesls \!embers Formt>rlv of t.• 
~outh Short>, I C Uott. and Bla<'kstont> 
FULL EVENING OF DOOR'S MUSIC 
Dean of Students James Roemer 
announced that the residence halls 
will be secured during the fall break. 
Rectors will lock the doors at all times such that access can he ob­tained only hy key or detex card. If a student wishes to remain in the hall during the fall break. he or she must contact the rector ahead of time to make arrangements for access either 
with a key or a detex card. Doors will nor h1: chain locked during this break. 
Pari~:tal hours during the fall break remain unchanged: midnight on Sunday through Thursday nights and 2:00a.m. on Friday and Saturday nights. 
The :'1/orth Dining Hall will close 
Medical School 
Applicants 
We have placed hundreds of students into the best English speaking foreign medical schools... including St. George's University in Grenada. world's highest ECFMG average English speaking school. Personal, professional Caribbean specialists since 1975. Pay only on acceptance. Call or write for our 1982 Bulletin describmg how we can help you obtam a quality medical educatoon. 
..-~~--{M1~~ Medical
•1::1~ 
Educational

•
..,,p,,~ Corporation 


Flonda offoce. 2119 Embassy Dnve. West Palm Beach Fl 33401 New York ofhce 117-01 Park Lane South. Kew Gardens NY 1141 B 
(305)683-6222 (212) 441-7074 
THISMONDAYOCT. 25th ONE NIGHT ONLY The Fusion Jazz ofJeffLorber featuring Kenny G . 
BILBOARD MAGAZINE :?-17 HIT OF THE NATION 256-1'134 120 W. l\li!-ihawaka Ave .• Mishawaka 


The Observer Friday, October 22, 1982 -page 4 


Pope endorses Lebanese call for independence 
VATICAN CITY ( AP) -Pope .John Paul II warmly embraced Presi­dent Amin Gemayel of Lebanon at a Vatican audience yesterday and en­dorsed the president's call for in­dependence and full sovereignty for his war-torn nation. 
Italian authorities deployed helicopters and riot police for Gemayel's arrival a. day after ter­rorists bombed the Lebanese Embas­sy in Rome. He traveled by military helicopter from one meeting place to another, using a bulletproof limousine only for short distances. 
Gemayel was on the last stop of a tour that took him to the United States and France in search ofpoliti­cal support for the withdrawal of Is­raeli, Syrian and Palestinian forces that made Lebanon a battleground this summer. 
Specifically, the president wants a tenfold increase in the 3,800-man multinational peace-keeping force in Beirut that includes U.S. Marines, French and Italian soldiers. He also is asking for S 12 billion in Long-term economic assistance. 
The peacekeeping force moved into Beirut at Lebanon's request last month after the slaughter of hundreds of Palestinians in refugee camps and the assassination of Gemayel's brother, President-elect Bashir Gemayel. It includes I,200 
U.S. Marines, 1,600 French troops and 1,000 Italian soldiers. 
TheBest Football \1\eekendsIn Pittsbutgh ~inWith The Hyatt. 
Every touchof Hyatt is inclUded inour new low$.39 rate for a Friday, Saturday or Sunday night. 
The best weekends in Pitts­burgh, whether for sports, culture, shopping, or just plain doing the town, begin with the Hya~t Pitts­burgh. One reason is that weekend packages at our luxurious down­town hotel begin at just $39 per nigh( single or double occupancy. Another is that we can arrange your weekend for you, right down to getting tickets and making reserva­tions. Send for all the details in our Pittsburgh Weekend brochure. It's free from Hyatt, where the best weekends in Pittsburgh begin. 
For reservations, call your travel planner; or 800-228-9000 (in Pittsburgh 471-U34). Weekend rates are based on advance reserva­tions, availability, and do not apply to groups or attendees of conven­tions or trade shows. Hyatt Pitts­burgh, 112 Washington Place, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219. 
HYATT$PITISBURGH 
AT CHATHAM CENTER 
Foreign Minister Emilio Colombo confirmed Gemayel formally asked the Italian government to beef up its contingent in Beirut. Colombo said Italy will study the request. 
On the first day of his overnight visit, Gemayel also conferred with President Sandro Pertini and Premier Giovanni Spadolini, and visited the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization headed by fellow Lebanese Edouard Saouma. 
In an hour-long meeting at the papal library, the white-robed pon­tiff said Lebanon's goal should be "to regain real independence and full sovereignty of the Lebanese state on the whole of its national territory." Gemayel, 40, wore a black suit and black tie as a sign ofmourning for his brother. 
John Paul also said he is 
"confident that your government, 
with the full support of all Lebanese 
people, will be able to contribute 
actively to the definitive resolution 
of the Middle East crisis and the 
problem of the Pales tin an people." 
Gemayel, a Maronite Christian sworn to unite his divided nation, again said foreign tr-oops no longer have any reason to remain in his country. 
"The troops and armed elements which sought to impose on Lebanon certain annexation or dismember· menr can no longer refuse to evacuate it~ territory," he saki. Neit­her the pope ·nor Gemaycl men­tioned any countries by name. 

IZ,t3•1·] j£1 GtJ 
Buy One Big Mat;McRibT,MMcChicken;M 
or Quarter Pounder sandwich with coupon Get One Free 
Good only .at 1 S 19 N. Ironwood Dr. 
.....................AR'E'''yo'iJ'R..CAR'E'E'R"GoA'i:S""'............. 
COMPATIBLE WITH YOUR PERSONALITY 
* 
Learn the career fields that best suit your ~ersonali)Y 

* 
Direa your academic efforts efficiently 

* 
Prepare for the career offering greatest self :gratification 

* 
Avoid time-wasting attempts to become what you are not 

* 
Learn the personali~ traits to work on to achieve your goals By companng your personality profile with the personality prof11es of thousands of successful men and women in a vanety of career frelds. PERSONAMETRIX can determrne the extent to whrch your personalrty is surted for a specrfrc career. Srmply complete our 60-minute self-admrnrstered personality rnventory rn the pnvacy of your home and return rt to us. We wrll assess your personal data professionally and return a comprehens1ve report descnb1ng your 


personalrty profile and the extent to whrch your prof:le resembles the pro­files of those who have achieVed success rn career frelds that rnterest you. 
Send your name, address and 525.00 lcheck or money order) to: 
PERSONAMETRIX 
9171 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 300, Beverly Hills, CA 90210
............................................................................................................................... 

THE COMMONS 
announces 
s-----------PUZZ E L LO 'S DELI-----s 
Featuring Italian Subs -Meatball -Beef -Sausages 
Every Friday and Saturday at THE COMMONS 
N. Eddy St. 11 pm-230 am 

Popejohn Paul II shakes bands with Lebanese President Amin Gemayel during a private audience in the Vatican Thursday. Gemayel ap· 
Against Chrysler 
UAW votes on strike Tuesday 
DETROIT(AP)-Memhersofthe United Auto Workers union will vote Tuesday on whether to strike Chrysler Corp. or to continue working under the expired contract until after ]an. 1, liA W president Douglas A. Fraser said yesterday. 
"There will he a referendum with two proposals: to suspend the negotiations until immediately after the Christm&s holidays or strike Chrysler Corporation at 10 a.m. on Nov. 1," Fraser said at a news con­ference. 
Fraser said the ballot will go out to workers in the next day or two and workers also will receive a letter tel­ling them about the vote. The ballots are to he turned in at the plants on Tuesday and results of the vote should he known that night, he said. 
The number-three automaker's refusal to grant an immediate pay raise caused a breakdown in negotia­tions on Monday. The rank and file had overwhelmingly rejected a tentative contract reached Sept. 16. 
"It's futile to continue negotia­tions now," Fraser said. "We're con­tent to delay negotiations until after the holidavs." 
Fraser ~aid he hoped the U.S. economy will he better in January and Chrysler will he able to offer workers more. 
Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00P.M. Closed Sundays & Holidays 
.~., "' • "' I -: !> • • e • • • • • e e • e t .. • • • • e • • • • • e • • • e • e • e • e • llo • e • • e e e e e e 
CogLmo ~ sillaih CDegigll\ 
18461 St Rd. 23 South Bend ca!lfor appoinnnent 277-1875 ,)'halllpoo, Conditiont?r, Cur Stvle 
NDSpecial Guys-$10.00(reg. 13.00) Girts-$15-.00 (reg. 18.00) 
''Fro.in the designers at Cosima 's 
: • e • • e e e e e e e e e • e e e • e e e • e e e e e e • e e e e e • • e e e e e e e e e.; e e Ieee e • 
................................................... .............. . 
·r.------------~ .
lll&im£1 
f). ~ 
7 Gameroom Tokens lor 
40 Gameroom Tokens lor 
or18 Boles ol PUTr PUTT . with this coupon or Student m expires llov. is : ........ PUTT·PUTT GOLF lt GAMES .........i 
OPEN YEAR BOUND! 3615 ll. Main., Mishawaka (one block south of Edison Bd.)Open till midnight 259-4171 
Fraser made his comments after an hour-long meeting of the !50­member Chrysler council, made up of local UAW officials from Chrysler plants nationwide. The council did not vote on the question, but dis­cussed it, said Larry Leach, president of Local 1264 in Sterling Heights, Mich. 
Doug Nicoll, a Chrysler spokes­man, said the carmaker would "wait to hear from Doug Fraser, and then if we have something to say, we'll let vou know." 
· The union has been studying what to do since Chrysler on Monday 
rejected  its demand for  the raise,  
saying  "there  is  simply  no  more  
money."  

The Best in Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown~ Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations 


e II • e e e • • • • • e: 
Present 
this 
coupon on 
arrival 
• • e e e • •., • e e.-.: 

The Observer Friday, October 22, 1982 -page 5 

OMAHA, Neb. (AP) -President Reagan, campaigning for farm votes and coming to the aid of Nebraska's threatened Republican governor, signed legislation yesterday that is intended to encourage greater production of alcohol fuel using surplus Midwestern grain. 
Reagan said the bill, which aut­horizes the Agriculture Department to convert huge, government­owned grain stocks into gasohol, will go a long way toward raising farm prices by reducing the amount of grain held off the American market. The bill's chiefsponsor was Rep. Berkley Bedell, D-lowa. 
The briefbill-signing ceremony in a local motel was attended by Gov. Charles Thone. who is facing a tough challenge from Democrat Bob Ker­rey, :'>9, a Medal of Honor winner in 
vl.etnam  who  returned  home  to  
protest the war.  
Kerrey's  surpnsmg  political  

strength seemed to catch Thone oft guard, and has raised the possibility of a Democratic upset in the guber­natorial race in this traditionally conservative farm state. 
The ailing economy is the dominant issue in the Nebraska gubernatorial race. With state tax revenues falling short ofprojections, Kerrey, who presents himself as a young, vigorous candidate for the 
I9HOs, is acciJsing Thone, 57, of being an inept tlscal manager. 
Kerrey also blames the governor and the Reagan administration for Nebraska's poor agricultural economy. Thone responds by point­ing to his efforts to boost exports and to Reagan's lifting of the Soviet grain embargo. 
Thone met Reagan on his arrival late Wednesday night from Illinois, and the president signed the gasohol bill first thing yesterday morning. Later,'at a Republican rally, Reagan praised Thone as representin~· 
Attention St. Mary's Students: 
You Can Buy Classified Ads 
at the St. Mary's 
Observer 
Office. 

Located in Regina South Basement 
Hours 
Sun ·Thurs I . 4pm ph 284.5365 

Nebraska's "bedrock values like self­reliance, love of family, patriotism and faith in God." 
Thone was the tlrst GOP governor to announce his support for Reagan during the 19HO presidential cam­paign. 
One Republican strategist said the governor underestimated Kerrey's threat to his re-election until very late in the campaign. 
"He wasn't prepared for a serious challenge," the strategist said. "He can use the help." 
On Wednesday, Reagan made a similar stop in Illinois on behalf of House Minority Leader Bob Michel, who is also running hard against a young Democratic challenger. 

It was the second consecutive day that Reagan announced actions care­fully timed to attract the attention of voters in economically depressed farm states. 
In Illinois, where he campaigned Wedne~day in hehalf of House <iOP leader Robert :\lichel, the president and Agriculture Secretary john Block annoutKed SI.S billion in low-interest export redits and reduced interest rates for govern­ment farm operating loans. 
NewYorkUniversityVisits Your Campus toAnswerQuestionson theM.B.A. Program 
Located in the hean of the Wall Street area. New York University's 
Graduate School of Business Administration has trained students tor 
executive positions for over 60 years. A recent survey by Standard & 
Poor's ranked New York University number 2 nationwide as the source 
ofgraduate education for chief executives in major companies. On 
Monday. November I. an admissions officer 
will be on campus to discuss the quality and tlexibility of the graduate busincs~ pmgram. Check with the Office of Career Develop­ment tor sign-up schedule and funhcr int(mnation. 

N~" Ynr~ Unin:~it\ i~ an affinnativ..: al·tion'~4ualnpportUnit~ in~titution. 
r.2~!,~f~~~
SZECHUAN -CAJVTONESE-AilER/CAII 
CHUCK WHITE 
* *
At The Piano Bar 
See Chuck b·er) Tues. thru Sat. 
8:011 p.m.· I :00 a.m ..... Enjoyl.il'~! 
•Dancing• Drinks• Dinger 
• Hospital!!)·•Reasona~Mt' Price' 

Lunch Special $1.99 to $4.25 Dinner Specials: Seafood Platter $3.95 Pork Fried B.ice $3.00 Chicken Chowmein $3.50 Jlr.:::;;:~ 
"The Best Chinese Food Yuu've'EverHad" 
HOURS: OPEN 7 DAYS 
Mon.·Thur 11:30 a m.-10:00 p.m A WEEK "ri. & Sat.11:30a.m.-11:00p.m. Sun. & Holidays 4 p.m.-9:00p.m. 

130 DIXIE HWY. SOUTH Happy Hour 5-7 P M SOUTH BEND(Roseland) BANQUET ROOMS & Next to Randall'-; lr.., GROUP RATES 
AYAIUBU 272-7376 

Lugar urges United Auto to return to negot1at1ons 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP)-Saying a strike against Chrysler Corp. would he "catastrophic," Sen. Richard G. Lugar called on the United Auto Workers union yesterday to return to the bargaining table. 
The senator said he cannot im­agine why thousands of UAW mem­bers would consider a walkout against the nation's No. :'>auto maker, considering the depressed state ·of the auto industry and the precarious tlnancial condition ofChrysler. 
Lugar made the appeal in a letter to l'AW president Douglas Fraser, who was in town earlier this week to endorse Democrat floyd Fithtan, Lugar's opponent in the Senate race. 
"The taxpayers ofthis nation have guaranteed loans of s 1.2 billion to Chrysler in order to maintain the jobs of l'AW and management emplo~'ees who are still working and to maintain the hope that Chrysler might stage a sufficient comeback to re-employ many thousands of employees who have been laid off for some time," Indiana's Republican senator wrote. 
"That debt to the United States Treasury must still he repaid and the hopes of thousands of workers must still he met," he added. "Continued strong operation of the company is essential if all of these hopes are to have any reasonable foundation." 

The senator conceded he has not written a similar letter to Chrysler President Lee lacocca, nor does he plan to do so. 
Lugar told reporters, "Chrysler will not survive, in my judgment, if there is not a spirit of labor­management cooperation at this point." 
In Lugar's view, the hall is in the l'AW's court after the union rejected a contract negotiated by its bargaining team. 
"At this point, it is essential that we have continuity ofoperation ... or it is a sham to talk about un­employment going up," he said. 
Lugar said that Chrysler has S6SO 
million in reserve available to repay 
loans and another S--!00 million 
available for the company's cash 
tlow to assure it will stay alive in 
19H.~. 
lacocca should have been more 
cautious about raising expectations 
about the protltablity of Chrysler, 
Lugar said. 
Lugar noted that as part of the Chrysler reorganization, UAW mem­bers own I "7 percent of the Chrysler stock. Combined with other non­union employees, Lugar said, Chrys­ler workers account for 2S percent of the company's stock. 
PITTSBURGH OLVB Fall Break Bus Schea ule Buses will leave from :Notre Dame ~:North Sid" of OCE) and St. Mary's Holy Oro~s Friday, October 22, 1982 4:00pm Will arrive in Pittsburgh about 1:30am(Pgh time) 
!uses will return to ND/SMC from Pittsburfh Greyhound Terminal Sunday October 31, 1982 1:OOpm (Pgh time) Be there 1S minutes before leaving time 
DUKE 
THE FUQUA SCHOOL 

MBA
OF BUSINESS 

A repres~ntative of the FUQUA SCHOOL 
OS: BUSINESS OF DUKE UNIVERSITY 
will be on campus Monday, November 1, 
to discuss the MBA Program. Interested students may obtain further info by contacting the Placement Bureau. 


committee staff report issued last The CIA has refused comment on
porary literature, among them Carlos Fuentes of Mexico, Julio Cor­
month claims the "dearth of tlrm in­the House report. D'Aubuisson is formation" on El Salvador's right­now head of El Salvador's Con·
tazar of Argentina and Peru's Mario wing death squads stems from an stituent Assembly.
Vargas Llosa. apparent lack of interest among U.S.
Critics said they breathed new life About 38,000 people, mostlypolicymakers and intelligence
in.to the novel form, which many unarmed civilians, have died in the 
analysts.

thought had become moribund. political violence that has wracked 
The report noted that when docu­
El Salvador the past three years. ments on rightist activity were 
Some human rights groups have captured from former Maj. Roberto 
blamed government forces and 
D'Aubuisson in 1980, they were right-wing paramilitary groups for
...DSA 
"virtually ignored not only by 
up to 80 percent of the killings.policymakers ...but more impor­
tantly by the intelligence com­Few of the murders are inves­
.continuedfrom page I 

munity." tigated, but probes into the Decem­
There is no model or blueprint for The documents, including arms ber 1980 slayings of four American democratic socialism, Schantz com­lists and a log of meetings, were churchwomen and thejanuary 1981 mented. Ideals and conditions are seized when D'Aubuisson and other killings of two U.S. land reform ad· constantly changing and "we have to rightists were arrested and charged visers led ultimately to confessions he constantly changing our ideas on with plotting a conn The House by Salvadoran national guardsmen. how to go about it." 
Schantz talked about the "crisis of liberalism." She felt that liberalism "clearly failed." for example, with it, we still have social 
,Peace 
security cutbacks, student loan cuts, ' and plant shutdowns, all of which He said the Arab leaders will beshould be "social concerns." continuedfrom page I told, "If that is what it means, why
"Problems don't go away if you not just say so' If we want to start
win that one i~sue," Schantz 
structive elements in the Arab plan moving this process forward, Mart
argued. She believes that people 
"involve the mention of Israel and coming out of the closet on such
mu~t work in coalition~ who all are 
the suggestion ...of a willingness issues which are key."
the need of progre~sive social 
to recognize and live in peace with changes. Israel." The Arab nations want a separate On the topic of youth working in 
Palestinian state in the West Bank the DSA, she explained, "Peopk arc 
and Gaza Strip, territoric~ occupied still ~aying thq wish they were born ofthe Arab plan. particularly a provi­in the 1960~." The only problem is sum calling on the llnited Nations to since 196"" by Israel. Reagan's plan 
the 1960s revolt has ended. guarantee peace "among all states of calls for Pakstinian self-rule in as· Schantz wants to make sure that the region." whJCh ha~ been inter· sociation with jordan. hrael says it today's youth can build a national preted as indirect recognition of h· will not give up the West Bank under
I 
j 
movement that will endure. 
raeI. any circum~tances. 
I 

FRIENDS OF HOlY CROSS
I 
I 
You are invited to join Bishop McManus 
I 
and the Religious of Holy Cross .. l 
j 
Sisters, Priests, and Brothers, in a 
l 
I joyful celebration of the Beatification 
I of Blessed Brother Andre on Saturday,
; 
t 
October 23, 1982, at 2:30 p.m.
.. in St. Joseph Chapel at the Holy Cross 
. 
Brothers' Center on Holy Cross Junior
.. 
BLESSED Bf\OTIIER ANDI\1:. C.S.C. 1845 -1937 
College Campus, Notre Dame. Indiana. •· 
n--~-­
1 
I 
I 
The Observer 

Friday, October 22, 1982 page6 
For literature 

Marquez wins Nobel Prize 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden (AP) -Praising the vitality of the the town telegrapher. He went Gabriel Garcia Marquez, Colombian literature produced in a continent through high school on a scholar­author of the novel One Hundred boiling with violent political con­ship, quit law school after one year Years of Solitude and the world's flict, a Swedish Academy spokesman because it bored him, became a best-selling writer in the Spanish lan­noted that Garcia Marquez "like newspaper reporter and published guage, was awarded the 1982 Nobel most ofthe other important writers, his tlrst ~hort story in 194"". Prize in literature yesterday. is strongly committed on the side of In an interview with The As­
It was the tlrst Nobel award to a the poor and the weak aginst domes­sociated Press last year, he said his Colombian in the 79 years the pres· tic. oppression and foreign style -terse, direct and almost tigious prizes have been given and economic exploitation." anecdotal but with a torrid Latin in· the second tlrst for Latin America A leftist and active political jour­tensity -probably stems from this year. Former Foreign Minister nalist, Garcia Marquez has lived in Hemingway, Faulkner and other Alfonso Garcia Robles of Mexico, co­Mexico for 20 years and has American writers of the 1920s and winner of the peace prize, was his received death threats from ultra­'30s, American journalism and the country's tlrst winner. rightists in his native countrty. But comic books that he said he still 
The 18-member Swedish Colombian President Belisario reads -"lots of them, Dick Tracy, 
Academy of Letters said it honored Betancur said he telephoned him af­Tarzan,. Little Orphan Annie ..." the 54-year-old Latin-American ter the award was announced "to tell "I have often been told by the writer of novels, short stories and him that I put Colombia's heart in his family that I started telling about 
political journalism "for his novels hands," and Garcia Marquez told things, stories and so on, ever since I 
and short stories in which the fantas­him he would come home "very was born, almost, ever since I could 
tic and the realistic are combined in soon." speak," he said. "I guess that's what 
a richly composed world ofimagina­Born in the north Colombian got me into both journalism and fic­
tion, reflecting a continent's life and banana town of Aracataca, Garcia tion writing, the two went together 
conflicts." Marquez was one of 16 children of all my life.~ 
"Gabriel Garcia Marquez has created a world of his own which is his microcosmos," the academy said. "In its tumultuous, bewildering yet graphically convincing authen· 
... Rights
ticity, it reflects a continent and its human riches and poverty." continuedfrom page 1 report said that after the documents
Garcia Marquez is representative were turned over to the CIA, "their
of a generation of Latin American 
writers in the forefront of contem· However, a House intelligence whereabouts is unknown." 

Editorials 
Friday, October 22, 1982-page 7 
U.S. must remain in U.N. 
Saturday. SecretarY of State (;eorgt· Schultz warn~·d that the l·.s. would withdraw from the l nited :'\ations (;enc:ral A~'emhh· and stop supplying 25 percent of the l":'\ budget if the ( .cnc:ral As~emhlv votes to expel brad on Oc­tohc:r 2S. Thi" i~ in kec:ping with our pa~t 
Tom Mowle 
Issues 

policy of withdrawing from I·:--; agencies which exclude Israel. Three weeb ago the: I r.s. delegation walked out on a meeting ofthe International Atomic Energy Agency after their exclusion vote, ami we have hec:n withholding payments from it. At this writing. the International Telecommunications Agency is considering a similar measure. While some response to the: expulsion of Is­rael would he necessary. Schultz's proposed retributions would not he the: most advisable. 
First of all. the nations of the Genc:ral As­sembly would not be justit1ed in expc:lling Is­rae:! \\"hilc: its itl\"a~ion of Lebanon and espc:ciallv of Beirut violated Lebanon's tt-r­ritorial integrity. Israel could exntse its ac­tions by citing the: threat of the PLO. In fact, 
lsrac:l  st-ems  to  han:  masterc:d  the:  art  of  
making plau~tblc  c:xcuses ti1r al most  n-c:rv­ 
thing it does.  

lsrac:l's -actuall) Prime .\1int<.;ter Begin's 
and Dekn~e .\linistt·r Sharon·~-.tction" em­not he ju~titkd. hrael mw-.t as.,umc: respon­sihilit~ for tlw C\'l:llt' in Lebanon. includmg the mas~acre of the Palistinian~. but not all of the blame. The blame abo goe' to tht· Chri' 
tian militiamen who did the actual killing. h­rael tried to justit\ its invasion of lkirut hy claiming that it needed to do so to 1-ieep on.kr there. so they arc at fault for not dclivt:ring on that claim. But the fact rt·main" that the militiamen committed the act, and are ul­timate!\· rc:sponsihk. whether or not Israel condonedtt. 
lnd:vidually. none of these: actions -their two inva,ions of l.c:hanon. the bombing of Beirut. and the attack on the Iraqi reactor ­would he caust: for t:xpulsion, if only because there: is a reasonable doubt that they may have been right. Taken together, perhaps they are reason for expulsion, but if so, thc:n Vic:tnam, Argentin.t, and the Sovic:t l'nion. among others. 'houid have bc:t·n expelled in the past kw years. Each of these: countries has com­mitted equal!\ tlagrant act~ ofwar. 
But only Israel would be c:xpelled. because hracl and the l ·.s. are the onh· countries most third world countries agree on. It cannot be prnlictcd at thi~ time whl'lhcr or not Libya and lr;~q will gt·t the \ote~ nec:ded to oust Is­rael. but a.~~uming they do, is Schultz's rc:sponsc: of withholding paymc:nt and withdrawmg from the: <ieneral Assembly ap· propriate' 
No and yes. We dopa\· for far too much of the l"N's c:xpc:nses. It makes very littk sense to contribute so much of the support of any in­ternational organization. especially one which is frequently anti-l :nited Statc:s and anti-l".S. allv. Without our mm1ey:it would he seen if any ofthese: nations would be willing to make up the diffc:rcnce. This part of Schultz's plan h well-considernl. 
llowevc:r. it would not he heneticial to withdraw from the: General Assc:mhly. The Gc:nc:ral Assembly has' no rc:al ability to affc:ct world t'\'C:tlls; only the Sc:curity Council. which we are not contemplating withdrawing from, can commit the l':'\ to real action~. The (ieneral A~sembly h only a forum for discuss­ing world events and proposing ideas. 
Frt·quently. ihc: tkhatc: consisb of various nations vc:rbally attacking the: l".S. Because of thh. many peopk arc: opposed to the l :'\.But by withdrawing from the General Assembly. we would not be stopping those attacks, we would merely be: removing our abilit) to defend oursdves against them. 
The l" N has lost most of its effc:ctiveness in dealing with world probkms: witness the Is­raelis' shoving aside of the l 'N force in Lchanon. But it does remain the only place where we can express our views to all other countries. The l'N needs to be reorganized so it does have real power; short of that. it is the: best we have. The l'.S. would only hurt itself hy kaving the General Assembly. Our money would be missed. hut not our presence:. 




P.O. Box Q 
'-iD." There are many more thinking men 
and womc:n here than thc:re are mindless
Response to Calafactor editorial 
~heep. IJearEditor: sorry for him. Last year. as a fre~hman. l too peers. l nfortunately, the sheep blc:at all the 
In the Octohc:r IH, ll)H2 edition of Tbe nmsidered transkrring from :--iD to another I ask \lr. Calahtctor not to sterc:otype the loudc:r. O!Jsert•er I rc:ad a letter that both angerc:d college. Howc:ver. one of the: main rt:a~on' I ND/S,\IC community. Pleas<:, .\lr. Calafactor. Sincere/)', and saddened mt· (P.O. Box Q -"Practice staved was ht-cause of the pc:oplc: here. .\ly practice that which you pr<:ach to everyone: Ket•in C. RJ•t;n what you preach"). The: author ofthat lettc:r. friends were too important to kave and I elst: hnc: and "love n-c:rybody and look at .11arketin.~ <;eorge Calafactor, told us about a friend of knew that Notre Dame was a great place hc:­people's good qualities. not thc:ir faults." I do hi~ who was lc:aving Notre Dame. The letter cau~e of them. Ohvtou~ly, .\1r. CalattCtor'" hope: that you rc:consider your position. said that she was transkrring not because friend doc:sn't feel stronglv c:nough about Sincere/)', 
tlocked doors'
tht: tuition was too high or her grades were anyone to stay and l respect her deci,.ion to Jlichael T. Belinski low, rather "because of how the students leave. hut I wundc:r why Calafactor chooses /Jillon act." to stay. He apparent!)' has little:, if any. Dear Editor: DearEditor: 
According to Calafactor. the ND/S;\1C stu­respect ti>r the students of:'\ D/S.\1C. To him On .\londay, October IH. (jeorge Calat~c­Last ,\londay. I was in one of my dents "are wolves in sheep's clothing -i.e we are phonies hung up on stereotypes. \\'e tor attacked the students of Notre Dame and philosophically pensive moods that organic PHONY." Well, some of those "wolves" art are stuck-up. close-minded. and full of hate:. Saint .\laf)··s as "photn-," "stuck up," chemistry tc:sts often induce. A" I wondc:red very special friends of mine and I was quitt Perhaps we sould all practice what you "<ol~>semindnl" and "backward," citing stu­what l was doing here at ND, I came across angf)' that Mr. Calafactor fc:lt he had the right preach, .\lr. Calafactor, and "look at people's . dents' "hate, jealousy and anger" and alleged ·an editorial in The Ohsen•er entitled "When to insult me and my friends. My initial anger good qualities not their faults." immaturity as primaf)· reasons why some of the door is locked use the window." I must passed and as I thought about the letter l Sharon Patenaude, his friends han: either transferred or arc: admit I'm not thrilled hy most editorials and realized that even if Calafactor believed his Lewis Hall planning to transfer to another institution. only read this one because it was written hy point was valid, the words he chose were DearEditor. I, too, am sometimes disappointed in my a high school friend of mine, Joe ,\'lusumed. not working to his advantage. l write in respon"e to the: editorial of Oc· classmates' conduct, including their ram­l often wonder why the "door" is always 
Mr Calafactor asks us "Why arc you tober I H, 1982, "Practice What You Preach," pant abuse of alcohol. hut as t<>r "a majority locked here at :'liD, as it has been throughout people so conservative, backward, stuck-up written by Mr. Calafactor. I could not fail to of students" hoozing it up all week, or guys my education. l suddenly realized that al­and close-minded' If you people call vour­write when I felt that the letter was an ex­constantly bragging about their drinking or though many people claim that ND docs not selvcs Christians (as yo'u say) why arc y~u so tremely narrow-minded, vicious and unsub­sexual prowess, hogwashl represent the real world (as I myself often full of hate. jealousy, and anger'" These stantiated attack on the ND/SMC student The measure of a university is in its claim) this "locked door" phenomena is questions hardly endeared Mr. Calafactor to hody. Mr. Calafactor bid everyone to "get off people. and granted some students' be­vef)· real out there. me hut still! thought about them. First ofall. the stereotypes" because stereotypes havior is an emharassment to the :'1J D/S.\IC It does not matter if you are a corporate although Mr. Calafactor to me seems to look devalue the individual person. However, he community, the rnajority of students l have: executive or a social worker. The "door" can down on having to act like evef)·onc else to then proceeded to stereotype the entire met are friendly, open and caring people: he made out of red tape or the fragile be accepted, his question suggests that ND/SMC student body. He implied every that represent our two st·hools with pride. It workings of an individuals personality. We anyone who is conservative is somehow at studenr to he "conservative, backward, is extremely easy to lind students who wish must 'realize and accept that the "door" is fault and should he liberal -just like stuck-up, and close minded." Not only that, to talk about something other than beer. usually locked in the real world, no matter evef)·one else. I wonder what Calat~ctor has hut all ND/SMC students are Christians who parietals and sexual organs. There are scores how painful that might he. 
against being conservative. If someone is are tilled with "hate. jealousy and anger." I of clubs sponsoring a legion of activities on Perhaps the whole point of being ed­conservative does it immediately follow that am sure that here, as in any othc:r place. the campuses. and plenty of students take ucated in a climate of "locked doors" is to they arc also backward, stuck-up. and close­there arc some people who tit that descrip advantage of this opportunity to, as .\1r. learn how to climb through the window. In minded' The students here are obviously ton. Yet, can :l-1r. Calafactor 111 truth d:!im Calat~ctor put it. "do their own thing." my experience, the diftkult goals are best from different backgrounds. Some students that every student or even a large contingent Those students whose credo is "sex. reached through the windo _,,rather than the come from places where conservatism is tit his description, his stereotype? drugs. booze and rock," arc: avoided rather door. In fact. I probably prefer the window, respected while others come from places I sympathize with .\1r. Calatactor's hurt easily l'y staying away from partic:s, happy mayhe it's just Pavlovian conditioning I'm where liberalism is respected. Why can't the and sorrow which resulted from friends who hours and other excuses to get hlitzc:d. not sure. ND/S,\'!C community he a place where transfcred to other colleges. l know the loss Evef)·one on campus has the opportunity to Those of you who are conditioned to everyone is respected -conservative or can he painfuL Yet, need he vehemently lash gc:t drunk or not to get drunk, to act respon­using the doors, take heart. There are a lot of liberal? Secondly, I believe there are many out and insult the ND/SMC community' In sibly or not to act responsibly. We tend w windows here at ND. If you can't t1nd them, true Christians here. Of the many students my view. he is the one tilled with hate and ask around. Some people have ht:en known
gravitate toward those who share our at­
who work at Logan Center, tutor children in anger. titudes and lifestyle. and that's just plain to point them out. the South Bend area, or work for (lther or­I also have grave reservations about Mr. human nature. Myself, I've been lucky; I've met some ot ganizations,! doubt any ofthem volunteered Calafactor's statement that only he has To those student~ comtemplating trans­these peopk and was raised hy two of them. because they are Christians "so full of hate, grown and is mature at ND. I do not question fer. I am sorry. Somewhere you have missed They never unlocked the door, only showed jealousy, and anger." that he has grown and is maturing, hut I all the great people at Notre Dame and Saint me the window. Plus, in Carroll Hall, the 
At this point I realized that Calafactor him­believe a great disservice is done to other .\1ary's, all the experiences, all the oppor­doors only lock with the key. self was beginning to sound close-minded students here who have and are growing and tunities. .\lr. Calat~ctor is '-iOT the only per­AI Kane and not Vef)' Christian and I began to feel maturing daily and are inspirational to their son who "has grown and is mature here at Carroll Hall 
The Observer---_,,--==-===ec-ce, 
Editorial Board Department Managers 
1 1'1' 0/"''rt"<'r 1-; Jn tndepcndc.:m ncw,rJJ'l'r puhlt,hL·d l'y the ,tudcnt' oi the 
Editor-in-Chief... ....................... Michael Monk Business Manager .............Tony Aiello
·"'""r"t)" ol Notre D.1me .!u I J< .1nd S.1111t r.t.trr·, ( ulkgc. It dne' t'ot Ill~ c"Jnly 
J1anaging Editor....... ..Ryan Vcr Berkmocs Controller ... . ...................... Eric Schulz 
rt ik\ t the I'OI"w' of the .hlllllnl,tr.ttiUt' oi uthn 1n't'tut1un. The nL"W\ 1' report 
!-;~'11C Executive Editor .... Margaret Fosmoe Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen
c.I .h .I•<Ur.ttdy .111d .t, uhjt\tl\d) .1' J'll"lhk Ll1toru!, rel'rc-;ent the Uf'l!lton oi 
!-;jJOrts Editor............... . ........... Chris Needles Production J1anager.................. Maura Murphy 
_, m.qunty ot the l"d1torul 1ld.1rd. ( o.tllll<'lll.lfl<''· UJ'IIlHlll' Jn,! letter<; .He the new, 
Editorials Editor...... .. ........ Paul McGinn Circulation Manager .......................... Ray lnglin
<•t thl'r Juthor'. ( ul•llllll '!'·" t· 1' .1\·J,I.thk l<l .dl membu, ot the <Uillll1Uillty. Jnd 
Features Editor .............Tari Brown Systems Manager ........................... Bruce Oakley
tl•e t ret· exj'fC',SIUil ol LL}"tllg op11110m on ~ampu>. tluough letter>. •• en~oun~ed. 
Photo Editor ........... Rachel Blount 
.,·,ri ;-.t<. ··-,; -'·< ~l,:t ~:~\;~:( '<]. Noirt;·l)fk;..t''. W,.:tt.,.~';(t; (219) .!.W-'i50:\ ·' · ·' Founded November 3,1966 -~ 
r· 
~~S tl0 W C ~~i_s_EiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiFriiiictayiii,oiiictiiiobeiirzii2,ii19iiisziiiiipaiiiiigeiiiis~ 
C' uperstition has been an inseperable part ofour human history. 
Jfhe evidence can be tracedback to the Kostienki ruins, north of 
the Sea ofAzov, where 42 primitive female sculptures were ex­

I t 
cavated. Archawologists and anthropologists ascertain that they 
were made by Indo-Europeans on their journey westward 27­28,000 years ago. The same ancient transitional dwelling revealed many bear and wolffigurines made of marl and mammoth tusks. All these artifacts resemble the Venus ofWillendorf and strongly em­phasize the fertility element, because our ancestors believed that 
such an idol worship increased their families, animals in the woods, 
and crops. 
Aleksis Rubulis 
feGtures 
the tradition 


·rst came a story ofbiblical in­Rtrigue and satire,joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat. Then came the sm;c;h hit,jesus Christ, Superstar. Now the latest musical hit collaboration by Tim Rice and Andrew Lloyd Webber is coming to town; the show, of course, isEt•itu. 
Joe musumeci 
theatre 

Like the previous Rice/Webber efforts,Evita existed tlrst as a record album before reaching the stage; all three shows also share the quality that they are in truth, comtemporary operas, since they are sung from beginning to end. 
Evita, winner ofseven Tony Awards. including Best Musical, depicts the rise of Eva Peron. born poor and illegitimate in a small Ar­gentinian town, to the position of the most powerful woman in South American history. This most recent production of the show opened in Detroit in February and travelled through several major southern cities before wending its way to South Bend. Florence Lacey portrays Peron, with Patricia Hemenway sub­
stituting in the role for two perfor­mances each week. 
-~ Reknowned theatre figure. Robert Stih'ViOod, with such credits to his name as the stage productions of Hair, Pippin, and Oh! Calcutta!, is producing the present touring com­pany. Stigwood has had a good deal ofprevious experience with the work of Messrs. Rice and Webber, having handled the Broadway, na­tional and touring companies for 
jesus Christ, Superstar. Direction is 
provided by Broadway regular 
Harold Prince. 
Rice and Webber have developed a reputation for being able to combine the dements of modern theatre in an operatic style that makes use ofl~-rics and scores which emphasize the directions of modern music, while retaining a certain un­explainable uniqueness of its own. Tim Rice's lyrics maintain a con­versational quality rather than poetic, and Webber's music carries the tunes in a striking contrast of continuity. 
Evita is being presented at the Morris Civic Auditorium on Novem­ber '5th at 8 p.m.. 6th at 2 and 8, and '"'that '"':~0. The show is presented courtesy ofthe Broadway Theater League, which has been bringing popular theater to the area for nearly a quarter of a century. 
Tickets are available from the Morris Civic Auditorium box oftlce, and run from S9.00 to S22.'50 (students are admitted half price). A word of warning: order your tickets early; they are going quick and this production prommises to be a sell­out. 

} ~ 
The ancient Greeks adopted this old pagan tradition and employed it in the observation of their calendar, i.e., the new year. Later on the Romans joined them. The superstition penetrated numerous countries, becomingcalendes in France, koleda in Slovakia. andko~)•ada in Russia and the l'kraiJJt:. 1;11 vians, E~tonians, and l.ithuaai:m~ werc ~ej)aratcd from thc westerr. int1uence for a lon­ger time. and 1heretorc, thc~ j>re~erved the immemorial Indo­Europt::Hllll~tom Jirectly . .\lltl•.:~c 1>eoplc celebrated rchirth ofthe sun during rheir winter fc:stival and thl growth ofcrops in summer, ;c; dcscribcJ by :\ikolay (,ogol. After the harvest, peasants (wearing the masks ofanimals) used to go from one farmstead to another sin­ging fertility songs and dancing. There was neither a begging nor in­timidation. The Catholic Church attempted to extinguish the fertility, i.e., erotic chants. In Poland, for example, two volumes of religious kolendus were created by the clergy. 
The Anglo-Saxon Halloween originated from the ancient Roman festival in honor of Pomona, the goddes1> ofgardens. The gratitude for the harvest was expressed on the eve ofAll Saint's day. They also believed that Samhain, the lord ofdeath, on this day summoned all those people who haJ died within the last year and were confint:d in the hodies of animals. Many various fortune tellings emerged, as pouring melted lead and guessing its form, reciting the Lord's Prayer hackwards while reeling a ball ofblue yarn, and roasting chestnuts on the hearth. If a chestnut bearing the name ofa certain person cracb. it indicates that this person will die the following year. If it bursts, then this man or woman will he unfaithful. When seeding hemp, the sower must pull some tool serving as a harrow. After­wards, he or she should look over the left shoulder and sec a likeness ofthe future sweetheart in the ground. 
The "mischief night" was introduced in the northern region of England. A hollowed-out pumpkin symbolized the devil's face and procured his participation and assistance. Accordingly, the popular threatening "trick or treat" was introduced on the eastern United States. Even now vandals break windows and severely damage cars in New York, Detroit, and Chicago. Four years ago I had to do some research in Chicago, and therefore I left a bushel of Ida apples in front ofmy house with a sign "Please take one apple each." Upon my return, I found a crayon graffiti all over my door and window. Devilkins had left their mark. 

I
n order to add a ghoulish touch to Halloween this year, Student lin­ion social commissioner Dave Drouillard has contracted Clone. a Chicago-based "contemporary power-pop band" to appear at Senior Bar's Halloween Costume party on Sunday, October~ I. 
Carol Camp 
concert preview 
When describing the band, Drouillard observed that they "tic in well with the idea of Halloween be­cause ofthe way they look. l feel that they'll go over really well because they wear masks." According to Drouillard, the band has attracted a substantial amount of media atten­tion. due to their unique on-stage ap­pearance. 
Clone, a Chicago-based group, is characterized by a style of music which Drouillard classifies as ·'contemporary power-pop" He describes the hand's sound as "a 
Jlal 
CLONE is com 
cross between the Babys and Cheap 
Trick." He is very optimistic about 
the band's future, commenting that 
"if they could get enough exposure 
on the radio, they have the potential 
to be as successful as a group like the 
Go-Gos." 

Drouillard also explained that the 
band has tremendous potential he­
cause "they play the type of music 
that people like, except that they're 
playing their own material which 
hasn't become 
fo develop an audience that is 
receptive to their music, Clone has 
just completed its first national tour, 
and their appearance at Senior Bar is 
the tlrst engagement on their second 
tour. Additionally, they have taped 
several video segments for cable 
television companies; in fact, Drouil­
lard first came into contact with the band by viewing one ofits videotapes, and was so impressed with their music that he immediate­ly contacted their agent and hooked the group's first date on their new 
national tour. 

Besides being the first date on the group's new national tour. the Hal­loween party at Senior Bar is espe­cially significant for a number of other reasons as well. Because the party is being held on a Sunday ning, all Notre Dame and Saint ~ary's students are welcome to tend. Sunday nights at Senior Bar non-alcoholic; therefore, 

·················································································~ The Observer Features Section Friday, October 22, 1982 -page 9  
see the lake breaking up the vast  

ng 
has the opportunity to come and en­
joy the festivities. Students are en­
couraged to take advantage of this 
opportunty, because, according to Drouillard. it may be short-lived. He 
explains the situation: 
"This is a good chance to enjoy a band at Senior Bar-the administra­

H 
ow manv Notre Dame and day?) was cold and drizzly with the Saint :\tary's students are there threat of worse to come, judging acres of land surrounding it. Fr. that know anything about the from the frequent thunder. Sorin's grave seems appropriately cemetery that they pass walking But, I reasoned, what better situated here, almost overlooking back and forth between the two weather to visit a cemetery in' the campus and the lake. Enough campuses those weekend nights on So,armed with a tlashlight and a ofcemeteries for one night. We the long trek home' Probably not companion (I'm not that brave or turned back to rejoin the Notre many and you may inform me, not stupid), I set out to observe the Dame community as it is now, with a many care. That cemetery. cemetery for all it was worth. little more appreciation for how it however. holds literally, the history Ifyou've ever noticed. the night was then. of Notre Dame. and part of the his­effect in this particular graveyard is 
tory ofSaint Marys as well. On the quite different from the day effect. 
Thetesa Guatino
tombstones there are such names as The trees look blacker and taller. 
Sorin, Dillon, Cavanaugh. and Zahm; looming up in front and all through­
virtually every founding fathn ofthe out the grounds. All the small stone 
Lniversity. crosse~ h>rm perfectly ~ymmetrical fentures The oftkial name of the cemeterv lines ofshadows on the ground. The 
is the Holy Cro~s Community evergreen and pine trees surround­Cemetery In it are interned priest~ ing the cemetery make n>u feel all dating back to the earlie~t Jays of the more closed in. ;\/otre Dame. Every Holy Cross Straight down the center path a.t priest of the Indiana Order Pro\·ince the very back looms up a large wood is buried there. crucifix that tends to blend in with 
Besides being tilled with history. the darkness umil you're directly in the cemetery is probably the best front ofit. In front ofit are the weat­example ofan "ideal" graveyard that herbeaten gravestones. one belong­one could tind -dark, old. wooded. ing to the man who started it all, Fr. and absolutely menacing looking at Edward Sorin. Backtracking. the last night. It loob like the type of two rows contain the oldest graves. cemetery we always hoped to lind Frs. :\torrissey. Dillon. Cavanaugh. on (;irl Scout campouts to sit in after and Zahm can be t(nmd here. The midnight to see how long we could lake is directly behind the cemetery. last. Wilen I was asked to try and with light from the surrounding "experience" or obsen·e the buildings reflected on the water. cemetery in a Halloween fashion, I Eight in the evening seems unusual­was all emhusiasm. However, the ly quiet out there. It's hard to im­night I picked (who goes to ex­agine this area as Fr. Sorinlirst ti>und 

perience a cemetery during the it. Looking around then. you'd just 
mac 
beth 

tion is happy because we cater to all students; the students should be 

T
he proximity of two events this some modernistic touches added. tion of this, the subdued but nont:­happy because they can get into the month make the Indiana l :niver­The script and "Dramatb Personae" theless period costumes and every 
bar, and see it while they listen to a 

sity at South Bend's production of remain virtually intact. as does the other technical aspect of the show 
live band on a non-alcoholic night." 

\X' illiam Shakespeare·s. H acBetb theme ofcorruption by power so was handled with refreshing style 
In addition to providing students 

especial!\· interesting. artfully set down by the old hard. and compctency. (I might add that 
with a chance to see the new Senior 

The tirst of these is the recent But the spectacle of the perfor­bounteous funding Was evident in 
Bar and enjoy the music of a live :\lotre Dame/Saint .\lary's presenta-mance benctiHed greatly from the production; "Oh, to he state­

band, the Halloween costume party modern artistic and stage tech­run'") 

will give everyone a chance to make niques. However. the acting was also con­

the euphoria ofOctober bn:ak last Joe musumeci sistemly competent;Jelfrey Koep 

just a little bit longer. Although stu­and Patrick Hanagan as :\lac beth and

Although many productions make 
dents will not have a chance to go 

use ofcomplicated scenery. I have :\tacduff were especially engaging. 
"trick or treating," they will always believed that Shakespeare Though she seemed at times too

· thentre
nevertheless be able to preserve a converts best to our time-frame if young in her portrayal, Lisa Horning 

few of their most precious 

tion ofTaming ofthe Shreu·. left unadorned with fancy set pieces. as Lady ,\lacbeth handled one of the 
childhood memories by dressing up 

:\Iany of those who attended the The ll'SB stage was almost com­most demanding roles Shakespeare:: as ghosts, goblins, devils. witches. 
run ofShreu· were thrilled by direc­pletely free offurniture except ever wrote for a woman with 
and othercharacters that are usually 

torJulie Jensen's contemporary in­during the banquet scene in .\'lac­aplomb and an cxcellent st'nse for associated with Halloween. 
terpretation, which set the play in Beth's castle; the entire set consisted the delicacies of the part. 
The party begins at 9:50p.m. on the modern American Southwest. mostly of the back wall. However, Hopefully. most ofyou will be Sunday evening, and lasts until the Others, who perhaps anticipated a this one piece was so innovatively going home soon after reading this. 

wee hours ofthe morning 

somewhat more traditional produc­designed that it was a most effective But for those ofyou who must (other\vise known a~ 12:50 a.m.). 
tion ofthe classic comedy, may have foil for the entire production; the remain in South Bend a little longer.
When you return to campus. don't been dissappointed. For the latter. wall was essentially a large bas-relief the Jl'SB production is a must; hide in your room for fear of the full the ll"SH production ma~ prove sculpture. embosscd with numerous showtime isH:1'5 tonight and tomor­moon; rather, venture boldly out in­much more satisl'ying. surrealistic laces and symbols, and row evening. Oh, and the other to the unknown realm inhabited bv The production I saw Sarurdav divided uno sections which an· evi.·nt which makes this productionghosts, goblins. and enl spirits night w;L~ a\\ onderful blend oftradi-rolled t(>rward to form different so timely . wdl. .tftn all. the cast lurkang in the shadows oft he night tiona! '>h;•k ·arian drama with space• f(,r each scene. The execu-includc., three witd1es and a 

----~--------------------------------~--~--------· 
The Observer Features Section 
Friday, October 22, 1982-page 10 
Ftom nnothet wotld 
T
J a young !at~)' recent~v burt by love: It's tempting to say I know how you're feeing. You would ask:" How could you know'" and my reply would be: "I've been in the same boat myself" 
You would answer: "Ah, bur that was a long time ago. and it was probably in another country." 
You would he half right: regardless ofwhen it hap­pened. it was in another country. The country referred to represents all the differences between u~: the male and macho difference, because big guys don't cry; the diflerence between us, because one of us is not or­dained: the difference between being hurt hy a tlrst love, which always seems as though it should last forever. and later love, when you know that love is rare­ly as reliable as forever. 
Rev. Robert GriHi n 
letters to a lonely god 

I won't insist on saying I know how it feels. I'll only say that I have known days when tears lie close enough to the surface that an undeserved reproach can set the eyes swimming with wetness. Numbness sets in, as though the nerves had been arranged in a formal and unalterable order, like tombstones that will he left un­disturbed for a hundred years or more, and finally crumble when there is nobody left to care. 
You say that the separation is only temporary, and that bye and bye, the two of you will begin over as a couple. Don't hang on to that hope too long; it can 
lies ahead. You've heard it said: you can't go home again. One could add, the wise heart never tries to. 
Alii know oflove's disappointment wa~ karned in th<ll other country I belong to I kept waiting for ghosts to rattle their chains until! decided the dead had buried their dead. It was nearly two years before I knew I had .~urvived winter kill. 
Nothing or no one had died. hut it felt that way. The nerve endings I had mistaken ti>r tombstones were only icicles. The mercifulmtmhne'~ feh :ll the ext rcmitlt'S of the heart was the rt·'"'' o!-clf.;,~-!t:·.·e.J amnt''l:t, as when the roots of a tooth are injected with novacaine. 
I didn't want to get involved again with pt·ople I might learn H) depend on. Alimb can he very painful, af­ter being asleep. because the cin.:ulation has been em off: the pins and needles seem vengeful in the intolerant way they stab you. The heart, after sorrow, is left with­out courage, like a cowardly lion. I considered wrap­ping my feelings in coverings oflead or aluminum foil orcotton wool, to avoid exposing them again. I wanted to find a hermitage for my t:motions where they couldn't be trifled with anymore. 
You can't make yourselfso impervious to pain unless you are willing to damn yourself. 
I offer you the experience ofone who feels he has travelled widely in another country. It is a mistake to think that first love is to be our only love, or as much love as we will ever need. Early lik prepares us for later lik; time. as a Christian would say, prepares us for eter­nity. The little loves are plateaus from which we move to the great loves. Human love stretches our soub into an endless openness, ~o that we Gill he ready for (;od's love awaiting us in heaven. Anything you have known up to now is a beginning. 

H
omeward bound, to the smells of home cooking, to the sounds ofsilence (depending upon the number ofsiblings you have). to all the things th;lt we don't have here. Vacationing away from soggy lettuce and raisin-invaded meat fillers, away from 6:30a.m. alarm clocks, away from South Bend torrential winds. Just think. For an entire week, the thought ofeight o'clock classes can be stored in the deepest recesses of the mind while noon waking times become the habit 
Ifhome is not where you are hound and South Bend does not impress you as being the hot spot of the "dead-west", hopefully the activities listed below will enable you to see South Bend from a dif­ferent perspective. 
As you might expect. most of these activities will he taking place off-campus with the exception ofthe opening oftwo new exhibits at the Snite. Take advantage of these occasions and look at them as an opportunity to experience South Bend as a city not totally depend­ent upon Notre Dame. 
•THEATRE 

prevent you from re-considering your options. The I once had an uncle, who fell asleep after too much One (>f the most popular playwrights in his own day. William mind has this genius for fantasy as a way ofdealing with wine. His friends, as a joke. laid him under the Christmas Shakespeare has come to dominate theatre from the high school to cruelty. Sometimes I fear that our faith in heaven is trn·. On waking up and seeing the lights, his llrst the professional level because of the variety of his works and his ap­hast:d on a refusal to accept the loss left hy death. thought was that he had died and gone to heaven. peal to young and old. hldiana Cniversity a; South Bend will he 
A lover says: let's forget our strong feelings, and get He died a few years ago. Now, truly in heaven, with repeating their production of the classic tragedy,Jlac!Jetb in the along for a while as friends. He's trying to treat passion the tlrmament at his feet like a footstool, he must laugh Northside Theatre this weekend. l'erformanl:es will he given at 8:1 '; like a winter coat left hanging on a hook. Even while with joy at the Milky Way, remembering how he mis­p.m. tonight and tomorrow night with a matinee concluding the run he's talking. you can hear the doors slamming shut on a took Christmas tree ornaments for the light of the sun on Sunday at 2:1 S p.m'. For further description, I would refer you to locked room. and the stars. the article on the performance on the previous page. Tickets can be 
Ifyou thought much of the coat, you would have One country is probably pretty much like another obtanetl hy calling 237-4396. taken it with you. Even ifyou think you are hanging when you're feeling blue. •ART onto the key, locks get changed: doors can he bolted In a year or two,l'll he interested in hearing what love A new exhibition at the Snite :'vluseum of Art will be opening Sun­from the inside. You are leaving strong feelngs behind song you've chosen to dance to at your wedding. day, October 24, in the O'Shaughnessy Galleries. The exhibit is en­and settling for friendship, because one ofyou is Being in love, you thought you saw the sky on fire. On titled "The Traditional Art in the Britt Family Collection." The looking for a better deal. Doors, once closed, can never the day you are married, you will understand how you collection, from that of the Raymond E. Britt Family, includes art be opened into the past. Whatever is to be true oflove. once exaggerated the prettiness ofa ten cent candle. works that were utilized in the traditional lifestyles ofall the major 
sculpture producing areas ofsub-Saharan Africa. Many ofthe pieces are extremely rare. This exhibition can be augmented by a visit to the Ethnographic Gallery on the lower level of the museum. The opening will include a reception at which African food will be
GET OUT should hnve got out 
served. •MUSIC 

~ ,f'Y first impressions after seeing ll'J.Lookin ·toGet Out? I was think­ing about using the catch line "Marvel Comics Presents Atlantic City". I llgured it had a snappy kind ofa ring to it. Both films dealt with the casino as savior, degeneration, and a general theme of"lookin' to get out". Surely, someone was doing a little borrowing somewhere. I 
Dennis Chalifour 
movie review 

tlgured I could use the whole comic 
book motif in reference to director 
Hal Ashby's empty characterizations 
and cinematographer Haskell Wex­
ler's wonderful use oflight. Then I 
could tie in something aboutJon 
Voight (who wrote the film with AI Schwartz as a vehicle for himself) wishing really hard that he was Burt Lancaster now that it's become so trendy to critically acclaim Burt Lan­caster. My tlrst impressions had the makings ofa real winner. I phoned home and asked my mother to clear some space on the mantle just in case a Pulitzer might be in order. 
Everything was going, just tine. 
Oh, but darn the luck. Being the conscientious film critic that I am. I did a little research on the movie and discovered that the whole thing had bee'n shot three year~ ago. Ashby and his editor Robert C Jones had ~pent the intermitrant time in an at­tempt to salvage tht· footage and their backt:r1>· money. This meant . that the concept had"hcen thought 
up long before Louis Malle had even thought ofdoing his own casino as savior/degeneration/lookin' to get out film. 
Voigt wasn't lifting anything. He just happened to be doing a film with similar themes to another far more successful f1lm that would be released a year beforeLookin· to Get Out. There went the whole stinking motif right out the window. 
Now all I've got left is the stupid plot synopsis. Two down-on-their­luck New Yorkers (Jon Voigt and Burt Young) get involved in a high stakes poker game and wind up owing two very angry men $10,000. Well, gosh, if they don't take the next plane out to Las Vegas to get themselves our of this mess. So far, Voigt may not be lifting anything from Atlantic City, just every other down-on-their-luck New Yorkers f1lm ever made. In turn, Burt Young is lucky enough to have the same name as a friend ofthe owner of the MGM Grand Hotel. This means un­limited funds until the owner returns and a chance to win whole hunches of money with the help of an old acquaintance from New York who just happens to be a Blackjack whiz. Now throw in Ann-Margaret as an old prostitute friend of Voigt's who just happens to be the live-in companion of the casino owner. Net:dless to say. wacky hijinks are imminent 
!may be able to salvage part ofmy 
comic hook motif to illustrate some 
of the film'~ basic problems. The 
l:haractt:rs all sutler from terminal 
two-dimensionalitv. Thl.' tault lies p.!rtly wnh Voight's insiptd dialogue· and Ashby's auteur-like lethargic pacing. That's quite a combination if you think about it. Comic book characters saying nothing for what seems like forever. Jon Voigt's character is such an inane loser that I can't help but wonder why Ann­Margaret ever fell in love with him or why Burt Young still hangs around with the guy. 

The tllm's one saving grace is the incredible lighting job Haskell Wexller does. The exterior Vegas scenes are especially good with the characters given a dash of light here and there to make their refuge as close to the dream world as they themselves believe it to be. The revelation of the Grand Hotel suite they are given is subtly done in vivid colors which make the room larger 
•han life. The cinematography evidences the theme ofcasino as savior. 
Unfortunately, Wexller is like the superb inker in a poorly drawn com­ic book. No matter how good a job he does, he can't overcome the two­dimensional framework. The dialogue and pacing constantly thwart the visuals. Frankly, I've got to wonder what Ashby and Jones were doing during those two years they were supposed to he editing this movie. Many ofthe scenes go on for much longer than they ought to with a few being superfluous to the rest ofthe 111m. 
:'vly tina! impressions after review­mgLookin' to Get Ou(' I almost wish that it had been a rip-off oiAI­luntic City. At least that might have gtven tl.ll' make~s ofthb tjlm an 
excu~t·. 

The Elkhart Concert Club will be opening in 1982-83 season with the Treger Watts Duo on Sunday at 7:30p.m. Charles Treger, violin, and Andre Watts, piano, will present a program of Mozart, Beet­hoven, and Saint Saens at the Elkhart Central High School. Ranked among today's top keyboard giants, pianist Andre Watts has ap­peared as both a solo performer ans as a concerto soloist on the famed "Live from Lincoln Center" series and is the only artist to have been reengaged for I 1 years in succession on Lincoln Center's "Great Performers" series. Charles Treger was the first American winner ofthe Wieniawski Violin Competition, in Warsaw. He recent­ly celebrated the twenty-fifth anniversay of his recital debut with a three-concert series at Carnegie Hall. Tickets are S10 for adults and 
S6 for students and can he obtained at Truth Reader's Service, 
Templin's at Concord Mall, and Imperial Music in Mishawaka. 
•MOVIES 

IUSB'is the hot spot of the South Bend area for the duration of break. This dominance continues with the IUSB f1lm series, which is presenting two films this weekend. Tomorrow night the Academy award winner Kramer vs. Kramer wilfbe shown in the Northside Theatre at H p.m. Dustin Hoffman and Meryl Streep give perfor­mances that have been described as incomparable. Sunday at 8 p.m. Winter Light will he viewed. Admission is S2. 
•OUTLOOK 

The strains ofmusic will be heard from the Northside Auditorium 
of IliSB during the coming week. As a prelude ofbigger things to 
come, a piano recital by Robert Hamilton will he presented at H: 1 5 
p.m. on Friday, October 29. The following two evenings, October ~0 and ~ 1, the IUSB Philharmonic and South Bend Symphonic Choir will he in concert at 8: IS p.m. also. There will he an admission charge for the recital hut the concert will he free. 
Our beloved Monday Night Film Series I and II will return on November I. Let it not dismay anyone. because, even though its presence signitles the resumption ofschool. two cinematic classics will grace the ~creen in Annenherg Auditorium. At-: p.m. The Big Sleep, directed hy Howard llawb. tlnds Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall in the Raymond Chandler mystery. Claude Chabrol's Le IJoucber will follow at 9 p.m. Another su~pense thriller. this tllm ('enters around a series ofhizarre murders iru ~mall French town and a romance buwecn the schoolteacht·r anJ butcher. As u~ua(adm is sion is S2. 
... <' .H '­
'. ! 

AI a om LV WEE &£12 ~ 
1­

..-------------.--------~~ 
1 

Sports=B=r=i=e~t~s=============
===F=rid=a=y=,o=c=to=b=er=2=2=,1=9=s2==p=ag=e=1=1 
lh lb<' (Jhserl'<'r and !be .lssudated Press 

Student hockey tickets mar be picked up at the ACC second floor ticket window today from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m. Addi­tional student tickets which were not purchased via the summer applications will be on sale on a first-come, first-served basis. Stu­dents wishing to sit together must present their !D's at the same time. Each student may present a maximum offour !D's. The student hockey season ticket price has decreased since the summer sale. The entire 16-game ticket package now costs S16. A refund will be issued to those who paid the original price. -The Obsen•er 
The Off-Campus hockey team will hold its first practice, as well as a tryout, immediately after break. The session will take place Monday, Nov. I from 10:15 to II:15 p.m. Players should bring full equipment, and S3.00 for ice time. All off-campus students are urged to attend. For more information, call Mark Curley at 234­541_4. -The Observer 
lnterhall Deadlines have been announced by the Office of Non-Varsity Athletics. November 10 is the deadline for IH basketball, men and women's, club basketball, grad basketball, IH hockey, and open squash. Further information can be obtained by calling NYA at 239-5100. -The Observer 
Mid-American College Health Association is concluding its annual·meeting today. The theme for the event being held in the Center for Continuing Education is Sports Medicine. Stu­dents are encouraged to atterid any of the lectures or workshops connected with the meeting. For additional information call 239­6691. -The Observer 
Notre Dame volleyball team is in Philadelphia today to begin play in the University of Pennsylvania Invitational. Tomorrow, Coach Sandy Vanslager's 16-6 Irish women will compete in the tournament's fin.tl round. Next Saturday, Oct. 50, the spikers will play a match at Lake Michigan College. -The Obsen•er 
The Irish field hockey team will follow the vol­leyball team east, playing the University ofPittsburgh in a scrimmage tomorrow to begin their October break schedule. Notre Dame, 12-3, will face a strong contingent of Philadelphia-area teams, beginning with Villanova University Sunday and continuing with matches against Immaculata College Tuesday, LaSalle College Wednesday and St. joseph's University Thursday. -The Obsen•er 
Saint Mary's volleyball team will travel to Michi­
gan today to play Hillsdale College and Lake Superior State College at Hillsdale. -The Obserz•er 
Joe Piane's ND runnerswill be in action each of 
the next two weekends. Tomorrow, the cross country team will travel to Purdue University to compete in the Central Collegiate Conference championships. Next Saturday, Oct. 30, the harriers will run in their second dual meet of the season against Big Ten opposi­tion, this time at Northwestern University. In their only other dual meet, the Irish shut out Ohio State. -The Obsert•er 
Charles "Lefty" Smith beginshis 15th season 
as coach of the Notre Dame hockey team as the Irish icers face off against the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor for a two-game series against the Wolverines. Next weekend, Notre Dame will host a series against Northern Michigan. -The Obsen•er 
Notre Dame-Penn State could he televised. ABC 
is considering whether to televise the Nov. 13 game starting at 3:30 
p.m. EST. The The Obseruer reported yesterday that the game was being moved ahead from its scheduled I:50 p.m. kickoff time and that special lights have been ordered. ABC had not been determined whether the telecast would be regional or national. Bernstein told The Associated Press yesterday that the game is "not oftkially locked into place yet. We have looked at it and discussed it with Notre Dame people and the lighting company. But if indeed we go with it, 
-it won't he locked into place until the :\londay hehJre the game." ­(AP). 
• • . Ducks 

continuedfrompage 16 
has been vulnerable otherwise. 

One thing Oregon has in its favor is the home field advantage. The last time a crowd this large saw a Duck ' game in Eugene was in 1980, when UO tied heavily-favored USC 7-7. In previous years, sellout throngs have spurred the Ducks on to upsets of Washington and Oregon State ( 19'1 ), among others. 
"From what everyone's told us," 
Faust says, "Notre Dame coming to 
Eugene is one of the biggest things 
to hit that area in a long time. That 
means the Oregon coaches will have 
no problems getting their kids ready 
to play this week." 
Fau~t sees the team that gets offto 
the fastest start winning the game. "I 
have a feeling someone is going to 
jump out quickly and put four or live 
touchdowns on the board," he says. 
"I just hope it's us." 
IRISH ITEMS: In case you're one of the unfortunate ones staying in South Bend over the weekend, the game will not he televised. Oregon is currently serving a three-year probation which forbids them from appearing on live television even in South Bend. You figure it out 
... ,\1utual Radio will pipe the gan· 
nationwide, so wherever you ar 
tune in ...Next Saturday, the Irish 
return to civilization from the wilds 
of the Northwest to play Navy at 
Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, 
N.J., just outside New York City. 
Game time there is I p.m. EST. 
Got anop1n1on 
Sendyourcomments to !Jports &iitor 
P.U.Hox(J 
Notre lJame, lnd. 

The Observer will accept classtfteds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 am to 4 30 p.m. However. classtfteds to appear tn the next tssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to tnsertton All classtfteds must be prepatd 
etther tn person or through the matl 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 

Ftytng Ftngers typmg servtce Proofread­tng and edtttng mcludea 85 cents a page Margaret or Ann 277-1624 
THE MARTIANS ARE COMING' 
WAR OF THE WORLDS HALLOWEEN AT t 1 00 PM ON 88 9 WSND FM 
TYPING EX-LEGAL SECRETARY 272­5337 
FOR SALE 
l 

USED BOOKS Bought. Sold. Searched ERASMUS BOOKS Tues-Sun. 12-6 1027 E Wayne One Block South of Eddy-JeHerson Intersection 
FOR SALE JVC 30 WATT/CHANNEL RECEIVER AND JVC TAPE DECK FOR 24000 
GOING TO 0 HARE?? For sale one round tnp ttcket on the UNITED LIMO DISCOunt prtces!! Please call x4420 
FOR SALE JVC 30 Wall I Channel Rece1ver & JVC Tape Dlci< for $240 Total Call 1 008. ask for Rod 
.____w_A_N_TE_D__I1 
PLEASE• I need ride to Mmn W1ll pay Dave 3039 
RIDER neeoed to New Orleans for break Leavtng Sat call 5329 smc Help South Bend Juhet wants to see her Milwaukee Romeo It you could gtve me a nde to Mtlwaukee on Oct 23 after the GMATs. I d apprec1ate 11' W1ll share the usual Ill you re Milwaukee bound. please call Jul1e at 3882 
Ann Arbor/Detrott ts where tiS att (Actually where he sat!) If you re headed ·o Ann Arbor/Oetrott tor break. I d be eter­nally grateful lor a nde. teav1ng Oct 23 after the GMAT s W1ll share I he drtv1ng and expenses If you can help me out. please call L1sa at3882 Thanks! 
Tentatively need riders tor renl-a-car to Philadelphia, or VICIO!Iy. 1eav1ng Sunday after the GMAT s Call Chrts Needles at 1240or 239-7471 and leave a message 
\ LOST/FOUND 
FOUND 1981 class nng 10 Math & Comp BUIIdtng orange stone call Gtna 6553 at 212 Lew1s 
LOST PENTAX 35mm camera In Green F1eld area Help' Calll 025 
HEPL!!I lost my class rtng on Saturday! Black onyx wtlh dtamond m the mtddle. tn­llials HLS 83 on the 1ns1de I can !leave 4 years at N 0 wtthout somethmg to show for 11!!! Please call3564. or 8055 Reward 
LOST: While folder wtth Observer logo on front cover and whtte legal pad tnstde Also green Satnt Mary s sp1ral notebook of news class notes Lost on Fnday the 15th Help' Anyone w1th 1nfo call Margaret at (284 )4316 or leave message aa Ob­server oHtce (239-5303) 
LOST Ad1das s-atpants. dark blue With whtte stnpes Dropped somewhere be­tween Stepan Center gate and Zahm Hall late on 10/17 If found. please call8917 LOST: 

BULL Are you ammal molesters planntng on abus1ng Bevo over fall break? 8765 
LOST a Se1k0 drgrtal watch srlver solar ballery Please call Larry at 1722 REWARD REWARD REWARD 
LOST Ad1das sweatpants. dark blue w1th whrte stnpes Dropped somewhere be­tween Stepan Center gate and Zahm Hall late on 10/17 
FOR RENT 
N1ce lurntshed house 2 blocks to N 0 
277-3604 or 288·0955 
Student Housrng Clean Sate $100/mo 291·1405 
TICKETS 
WILL PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENN STATE GA TIX. CALL 312·565-5959 COLLECT AND ASK FOR STEVE LONGLEY. 
Need Penn State Gas W111 pay cold hard cash 8539 
GOLLY JEEPERS! I need two PENN STATE GAs. btg brother would like to see a game w1th Pop Call DAVE at 1165 
NEEDED DESPERATELY! 2 g a !IX to the penn s1 game The earlier you call the more deluxe your bux call mall277·4573 
NEED 2 Penn State GAs ana 1 studenttrx lor famtly SS Please call Nancy 4449 tSMCi 
I need Penn State t•ckets• Student or GA Met1ssa x-1308 
For Sale 1 Penn State Student Ttcket Call Laura at 4624 
FOR SALE 67th row seats to see RUSH Ca111195, 
HELP"' need 4 Penn St GA ttx Call Bnan at255·3287 
[iERSONALSj 
Dear Shawn a. 

Please come out here to !hts fine tnslllu­
hon I would love to have you out here It s 
better than Ashburnham Love. 
P S You should see how my roommate decorated the room!! 
Question tor the week Don t you want me baby? 
The Most Blessed satls tor Sweet Home Chtcago at 1 00 Arnvederct! 
JODI' t m gone now Mtss me' Yes. please! Don 1 worry! Ill be back belore you can say nuclear holocaust (I know you can!) Have a grrreat week and a nrce hfe! WONGAWOMAN 
Dan-

Female mteractJOn? Fun-lovtng g•rls' Sounds like break won I be so lonely after aU! Wtll you ftnd lime for a long-dtstance phone call? 
Otane 

PW IS women s flag football'!' Who IS everybody else? WEST IS BEST1 
The bonehead fell down and brot<e h1S Crown while the Pup went barkmg home 
ASSOCIATE WITH US HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES, 1-2 YR. POSTGRAD SERVICE PROGRAM WITH SIMPLE CHRISTIAN Llf'ESTYLE IN USA AND CHILE. CHILE DEADLINE NOV. 4. CALL MARY ANN ROEMER 5293. 
SENIORS FOR 1983-<15, CONSIDER WORK WITH HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES PROGRAM IN CHILE. APPLICATION DEADLINE NOV. 4TH. CALL MARY ANN ROEMER 5293. 
THE MARTIANS ARE ATTACKING' 
WAR OF THE WORLDS 
HALLOWEEN AT 11 00 PM 
WSND FM 88 9 

GOING TO O'HARE SATURDAY MORNING? DON'T WANT TO PAY RIDICULOUS UNITED LIMO FARE? CALL GREG AT x1421 
ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS! Elec11ons are the ltrst Tuesday after break AI thai ltme tl wtll be to late to do anylhtng about absentee ballvts Whtle you are home. contact your LOCAL electton board for the proper procedure If you re not gotng home. call or contact them to get your bal­lot Remember. VOTE the chOice IS yours!!! 
Hey there Ray & Nancy !I 
Happy HaUoween-as always--­

BEAUX ARTS Frt Nov 12 A tacky costumed ball to be held 1n BAD TASTE 
PEACH. Have a lantasllc ttme over break Hope tt1sn t too cold back home Say hel­low to the rest of the fam,ty lor me 
Your Prodigal Roommate 

Have a greatt•me over break Jennt Frtenas lrom 222 Grace 
Sol<o go home! 
Sugar. 
Thanks lor be1m such a tantastrc fnend 
Love always. tan 
EARTH TO ISOM 36.000-congrats' YOU VIDE·IT 1 
OUR ROOMMATE IS GONE FOR THE WEEK' LLparty tomght1n number 10 All men of vtrtle persuaston welcome' Come one. Come all! Remember. No 10-the house !hal smokes 
Dearesl Gerry (get a name-· an ong1nal 
one. that ts!) -­
Happy. happy bl1hday' {a lillie early I We saw your •nv1ta1ton 1n the Observer If the door s locked. use the wmdow Don 1 
temp! us• Ger. you ve been our buddy s1nce thai very ftrst (fateful) n1ght --so why are we sttll wa1ttng for a tour of the Pleasure Dome?! The lake c(or shower} awatts your return The g1rls from the West--Colleen. Oe1rdre 
& Gerry 
Andrea 
Happy com1ng birthday to our favortte monkey woman!!' We II ltft a lew to you over break and some afterwards wtth Kathy. Carolyn. and Celeste 
Joe. Steve. Bob. 
Dan. Glen. Mall 
CONTRIBUTE TO THE DEFENSE FUND-­BUY A DeLOREAN TODAY 
Attenuon chemists 
Can you 1dent1ly the unknown? 
Physteal charac Strawberry Blonde. 
Blue Eyes. Chanmng sm11e 
Bolltng Potnt. None. remams totally 
calm under any state 
Melltng potnt Pre-meds from NO 
Solub1httes. Any creme-ltn•shed wtnes 
Unknown solutiOn Barb Markley and 
shes 21 today' 
Happy Btrthday. Barb, 
The Mad Chem!stS, A H & I S 
HEY MCCLOSKEY' Have a good break, OK? Hope you get your kiCks tn Bloomtngton How about The Wall? I ve golthe trowel, 11 you ve gotlhe mortar 
A Tad Mad Pole 
.._......,...--~-..,.....__,___-------------...----.-----..........---,~ ......... 

-...._.....----~---· ........---~~----­
~-------_..._.----~~~~--~---------­
-----------~----~-·----------------~-------~---~ --------. ·-·-··------·-----····-----~--·-·· --------------­
The Observer Friday, October 22, 1982 -page 12 
-----'--· ----· 
Ruggers continue unbeaten 

Steve Berry, a native ofGreensboro, N.C., is travelling south this October break with the Notre Dame soccef" team as it plays four matches this week. Coach Rich Hunter's kickers take an 11-4-2 record on their southern swing. See AI Gnoza's story on the back 
page. (Photo by Glenn Kane) 
RU<;BY -And the streak goes on. 
The rugby football club lengthened its undefeated 
season record and Brian Moynihan continued to have a 
hand in scoring in every game as the.Irish destroyed John Carroll ~7-0 last Saturday. The win raised the A team's record to S-0-1. 
Moynihan began the scoring in the first minute of 
play and after that it was all irish. All six backs for Notre 
Dame scored including Steve Schneider and John Reid, 
who each tallied their tlrst tries for the A side this 
season. Brian Foley,John Goebelbecker, Mike Sash, and 
Matt Stolwyk all added four point scores for the team. In 
addition to his try, Schneider connected on one penalty 
kick and on three of his seven conversions. Mike Con­
ney continued his excellent play as the standout in the 
serum. 
The Rugby Club's B team defeated John Carroll's B 
side I ~-0. Bob Fink had a superb day, leading the ND 
offensive charge. 
The teams close out their schedules'on Nov. 6 against South Bend. WATER POLO -The water polo team split a pair of away games this weekend to move its record to 4-2. 
The team beat Illinois I 5-1 I last Friday night in what club president John Smith called "the best game of the year." Mike Roberts led the Irish with six goals and Tom Austgen added four of his own. Smith and Steve Blaha each scored twice, and Sean Farley chipped in with one to finish the scoring for Notre Dame. Mark Gormly had an outstanding performance in his first start. 
The game was not as close as the score indicates. The Irish defense manhandled the lllini offense and allowed few balls to get back to the goalie. 
The following night the Irish were simply outplayed 
Steve Donco 
Sports Writer 
Club Comer 

in a 21-9 lnss tn low:1 <.;ratt> Made up mostlv of swim­
mers rather than water polo players, Iowa State was able 
to get to many loose balls and was able to score I'; per­
cent of their goals on fast breaks. Blaha scored three 
goals for the Irish, and Mike Erhard came off the bench 
to score twice. 
The Irish win over Illinois virtually assured them ofa 
playoff berth in the conference championships in two 
weeks. This weekend the team is entered in a tourna­
ment at Cleveland State. Next Monday, the Irish travel 
to Boston for a tournament with Harvard, Boston Uni­
versity, Boston College, and MIT. 
CROSS COUNTRY -The women's cross country 
team traveled to Hillsdale last Saturday. The trip turned 
out to be the most disappointing of the season. 
Going in to the race, the Irish had hoped to top the list of the seven teams entered. The best they could manage , however, was fourth. Anne Attea was finally able to top Marie Fiore for first-place honors for Notre Dame. The pair has consistently been the first two finis­hers for the team, but Fiore has always seemed to have the edge until this past weekend. Attea finished fourth in the race with Fiore just a step behind in fifth. Out of the fifty runners entered, Mary O'Connor finished 20th. Amy Kerwin 29th, and Rose Marie Luking ~Oth. 
Fall baseball 
closes with 
6-7log 
By NEAL SMITH 
Sports Writer 
"Six and seven," mused Larry Gal­lo. "I don't feel good about it at alL I don't like being 6-7." The Notre Dame baseball coach completed his first losing campaign with the Irish last Sunday. 
After a I--! start, :>Jotre Dame ended tile ~cason with five win~ in its last seven games. 

"I know ~even time" we heat cur­selve.'..111,! 1l IH1 .., ... ··!~ore I<'r n1t:> 1o say tJ:.-;.' ~•·•t•:d (,aJio. ···lle losses were not due to poor pitching, as Gallo said he was pleased with the mound work. Mental errors and spotty defense were major Irish woes. Notre Dame's defensive play was a far cry from last year's, which ended the season ranked l2th na­tionally in fielding percentage. "I think the defense and the mental mistakes were probably attributed to a lack of playing time," com­mented Gallo. 
Besides feeling good about the pitching, Gallo reported that the Irish are sound at the catcher posi­tion. For the rest of the team, Gallo added, "Ricky Chryst , as far as I'm concerned, is the only fixture out there (in the outfield) right now." However, Gallo remarked that Steve Passinault was a pleasant surprise this tall in the outfield, and that he did not torget about John Deasey. Deasey, who was four-for-six in is only batting appearances this tall, plays hockey and could only appear in the first two games. Gallo said, "For me to say that he's ( Deasey) not going to be in the line-up, would be a 
big lie." Gallo continued, "Jimmy Dee looks like he will be there (third base) for awhile. As tar as the shortstop-second base position, really don't know yet." One player that will see action at second or shortstop will be lead-off hitter Jack Moran. Moran played second the entire season except for the last three games. He was moved to shortstop when the Irish started having trouble at that position. At tlrst base, (;allo said that another hockey pla~Tr, 6-6 tre:.hman Greg Hudas, will be pushing Carl You no. 
IF YOU THINK IT DOESNT MA'I*I'ER WHERE YOU GET CONTACTS, YOU OUGHT TO HAVE 
YOUR EYES 
Where you choose to get your contact lenses can make a difference. At NuVision, we do everything to make the experience of getting contacts a pleasant one. It starts with a thorough eye examination by a Doctor of Optometry. The examination he administers is specifically designed to evaluate your eyes so he can write your prescription for contact lenses. 
We offer the latest developments in contact lenses at NuVision. Ask about them. The Doctor of Optometry will take the time to explain the differences and recommend the best one for your vision. 


• 
After selecting the right lenses for you, a Nu Vision professional will make sure you are comfortable with them. Whether you're wearing hard lenses, soft lenses, gas permeable lenses, or the new extended wear lenses, we'll make sure you know how to put them on, and how to care for them. 
Nu Vision offers contact lenses at reasonable prices. But what makes us different is our own brand of care. From eye examination through follow-up visits you get professional care at NuVision. So when you've decided you want contacts, come to NuVision. The difference is clear. 
SOFT CONTACT LENSES 
from Bausch & lomb and American Hydron Bausch 8t Lomb and American Hydron Spherical Soft Contacts are now just $49. Price includes:
$49 

Introductory Care Kit; 30-day Trial COMPLETE Wearing Plan; Follow-up Visits. 
234·3123  277-2281  256-1864  
LaSalle Square  University Commons  McKinley Town· & County  
SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  MISHAWAKA  
We put the care  
back in eye care.  


' ·. 

Under the direction of Dr. Eli Shapiro, 0. D. 
The Observer -Football Special Friday, October 22, 1982 -page 13 
Fighting Irish vs. Ducks 
The Game 


GAME: SITE: TIME: TV-RADIO: 
SERIES: LAST MEETING: 
RANKINGS: TICKETS: 
Fighting Irish vs. Oregon Ducks Autzen Stadium, Eugene, Ore. ( 42,000) 3:00p.m. EST Saturday, Oct. 23, 1982 
Metrosports Replay Network Harry Kalas and George Connor 9 a.m. Sunday WNDU-TV ( Ch. 16) 
Notre Dame-Mutual Radio Network Tony Roberts and AI Wester 
(4-1 )
WNDU-AM 1500 and nationwide 
Notre Dame 1, Oregon 0 Oct. 16, 1976 at Notre Dame Stadium Notre Dame 41, Oregon 0 (AP) Notre Dame 15th, Oregon unranked Game is sold out; record crowd expected 
(0-6) 

The Statistics 
PASSING G NO co PCT INT YOS TO
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP 

K1el 5 113 67 593 7 629 0
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 1694 1146 Total Plays 373 317 
5 113 67 593 7 629 0

3 6 NO 5 164 84 512 6 935 5Yards per Play 45 
229 2 OPP PENAL TIES-YARDS 34·288 19-161 RECEIVING G NO YOS AVG TO LG FUMBLES-LOST 6·2 14-8 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 92 72 Hunter 5 18 235 13 1 0 25 By Rush1ng 59 16 Howard 5 14 176 12 6 0 22 By Pass1ng 28 47 Mor1arty 4 11 51 46 0 15 By Penally 5 9 P Carter 5 7 54 77 0 25 THIRD DOWNS-CONV 83-27 72-17 Pearcy 5 6 45 75 0 15 Percentage 325 236 Brooks 5 5 28 56 0 13 POSSESSION TIME 174.23 125 37 Bell 2 3 20 66 0 7 M1nutes per Game 34 53 25 07 F avonte 3 17 17 0 0 17 
Yards per Game 338 8 
SCORING GTO PAR-PAS FG TP 
Johnston 5 0 8·8 0-0 0 11-11 41 Moriarty 4 3 0-0 0-0 0 0·0 18 P Carter 5 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 K1el 5 1 0-0 0-0 0 0·0 6 P1nkett 4 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Bell 2 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Team 5 0 0·0 0-0 1 0-0 2 
NO 5 8 8-8 0-0 1 11-11 91 OPP 5 7 7-7 0-0 0 5-7 64 
PUNTING G NO YOS AVG LG 
K1el 5 37 1568 42 4 60 V1racola 1 1 42 42 0 42 
NOTREOAME 5 38 1610 42 4 60 OPPONENTS 5 38 1669 43 9 63 
RUSHING  G  NO YOS AVG TO LG  
P Carter  5  116  455  39  2 25  
Monarty  4  56  345 62  3 37  
Bell  2  24  123 51  1 19  
Pinkett  4  22  69  3 1  1 25  
Brooks  5  21  67  3.2 0 10  
K1el  5  22  17  07  1 12  
Pearcy  5  1  -11 ·11 0  0 -11  

NOTREOAME 5 262 1065 41 8 37 OPPONENTS 5 153 211 1 4 1 19 

heSchedule 
NOTRE DAME 

I H beat MICHIGAN, 2_1-1..., SEPT 2 S beat PU RD LIE, 28-1-1 OCT. _>,beat Michigan St., I I-_>, OCT. 9 beat :\1IAMI, I6·1-l OCT I6lost to ARIZONA. 16-1.1 OCT. 2.1 at Oregon OCT. _>,0 Navy at Meadowlands NOV. 6 at Pirtsburgh NOV. I 3 PENN STATE NOV. 20 at Air Force NOV. 2..., at Southern Cal 
OREGON SEPT. -1lost to ARIZONA STATE, :\-1·5 SEPT. II lost to SAN JOSE STATE, I H-1. SEPT I H lost to FRESNQ STATE, I0--1 SEPT. 2'i lost at Washington, .P-21 OCT 2 lost at USC, :\H-~ OCT. 16 lost at California, I 0-~ OCT. 23 NOTRE DAME OCT. 50 at UCLA NOV. 6 WASHINGTON STATE NOV. 20 ARIZONA NOV. 2..., at Oregon State 

Jackson 4 9 90 0 
P1nkett 4 1· -6 -6 0 0 
NOTREOAME 5 67 629 94 0 25 OPPONENTS 5 84 935 11 1 5 79 PUNT RET NO YOS AVG TO LG 
Duerson 16 97 61 0 17 
Bell 12 12 0 0 12 
NOTREOAME 17 109 64 0 17 
OPPONENTS 14 134 20 0 1 72 
KICKOFF RET NO YOS AVG TO LG 
Pinkett 4 99 24 8 0 40 
Howard 4 92 23 0 0 30 
Bell 3 50 16 6 0 18 
P Carter 1 18 18 0 0 
Ball age 14 14 0 0 
NOTREO.AME 13 273 21 0 0 
OPPONENTS 16 322 20 1 0 
INTRET NO YOS AVG TO LG 
Duerson 2 48 24 0 0 48 Zavagmn 2 32 16 0 0 16 Brown 2 3 1 5 0 3 
NOTREOAME 6 83 13 8 0 48 ..,.. OPPONENTS 7 10 1 4 0 6 



The Sports Staff 
Picks 
the Winners 
Each week, The Observer sports staff predict the outcome of the week's major college football games. Records are compiled as to how each writer does against the spread. HOME TEAM is in capital letters. 


WILL HARE Sports Writer 34-24-1 .585  SKIP DESJARDIN Sports Editor Emeritus 32-26-1 .551  DAVE DZIEDZIC Assoc. Sports Editor 31-27-1 .534  CHRIS NEEDLES Sports Editor 30-28-1 .517  RICH O'CONNOR Sports Writer 26-32-1 .449  
Illinois over WISCONSIN by 2  lllini  Illini  lllini  Jllini  lllini  
MICHIGAN STATE over Purdue by 4  Boilers  Spartans  Spartans  Spartans  Spartans  
Ohio State over INDIANA by S  Hoosiers  Hoosiers  Hoosiers  Buckeyes  Buckeyes  
Pittsburgh over SYRACUSE by 20  Panthers  Panthers  Orangemen  Panthers  Orangemen  
Penn State over WEST VIRGINIA by -I  Lions  Lions  .\1ountaineers  Mountaineers  Mountaineers  
TEXAS over Southern Methodist by 1  :\lustang~  :\1ustangs  Horns  Horns  Horns  
Auburn over MISSISSIPPI ST. by I  War Eagles  War Eagles  Bulldogs  Bulldogs  War Eagles  
UCLA over CALIFORNIA by 13  Bruins  Bruins  Bru;n:o.  Bruins  Bruins  
Arkansas over HOUSTON by -1  Cougars  Hogs  Hogs  Hogs  Cougars  
L'ill over South Carolina by 1 H  Cocks  Tigers  Tigers  Tigers  Cocks  
Notre Dame over OREGON by 13  Irish  Irish  Irish  Irish  Irish  

1. The Observer Friday, October 22, 1982 --page 14---------------------------------------~~~~~~~~~~------~-----_-_-_-_-_-___--~------~-------------------------_-_-_-_~-~------~-----~~------------------_-_-_-______________ 
Basketball ticket distribution 
Any Notre Dame student who purchased basketball season tickets via the summer application may pick up the tickets at the ticket window on the second floor of the ACC from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. according to the following schedule: SENIORS ­Tuesday, Nov. 2; JUNIORS and all undergraduate students in the ninth semester or higher -Wednesday, Nov. 3; SOPHOMORES, GRADUATE and LAW -Thursday, Nov. 4; FRESHMEN -Friday, Nov. 5. 
Any Notre Dame students who have not yet purchased basketball season tickets may fill out an applica­tion and pay for tickets at the Gate 10 ticket windows of the ACC on Monday, Nov. 1 and Tuesday, Nov. 2. These tickets will be available on a first-come, first served basis and will be distributed to seniors, juniors, sophomores and graduate students on Thursday, Nov. 4, from 8 a.m. un­til 5 p.m. at the second floor ticket window. Freshmen may pick up these tickets on Friday, Nov. 5. 
Package 'A' Lower Arena tickets are sold out. However, Package 'B' Lower Arena and both Bleacher packages are still available. The following games comprise Package 'A': Nov. 27-St. Francis (Pa.); Dec. 

=---Kentucky; Dec. 7 -Indiana; Dec. 1 1 -Dartmouth; Jan. 17 ­Lafayette; Feb. 2 -La Salle; Feb. 7 ­Seton Hall; Feb. 21 -Akron; March 10 -Northern Iowa 
The following contests are con­tained in Package 'B': Nov. 18 ­Yugoslavia; Nov. 26 -Stonehill; Dec. 4 -UCLA; Dec. 9 -Fairfield; Jan. 12 -Canisius; Jan. 19 -Buck­nell; Feb. 5 -South Carolina; March 3 -Hofstra; March 7 -Dayton. 
The Saint Mary's Student Ac­tivities Office is handling the sale and distribution of tickets for all SMC students. 

''I" 
• 
... Kiel 
continuedfrom page 16 

auto accident before his freshman year, and never played football again. 
Of course, high school triumphs aren't worth a bucket of warm spit on a college campus, as Gerry Faust can surely attest. You would think, though, that the law of averages would catch up with the Irish sooner or later. After all, even blind squirrels find acorns. 
Not so, interception-breath. 

Going back through the 1980 season, Notre Dame quarterbacks have thrown for 14 touchdowns and 33 interceptions, while completing just 46 percent of their passes. Excluding this season, the Irish haven't completed better than 50 percent of their passes since 1979 (. 502 ), when t1fth-year senior Rusty Lisch did most of the throwing. Koegel, who Cincinnati Bengal President Paul Brown allegedly said could go straight from Moeller high school to the NFL, wound up a dis­appointing five years at Notre Dame with 72 completions in 142 at­tempts, five interceptions and six touchdowns. He was one yard shy of 1,000 yards passing in his career. 
Scott Grooms, who like Kiel en· tered Notre Dame as a consensus high school all-American in 1980, has transferred to Miami (Ohio) and back. In berween, he's thrown three passes for the Irish, all incomplete. In two and one half years, Kiel has completed 47 percent of his passes, while throwing 22 interceptions and seven touchdowns. 
The recent failures of the Notre Dame quarterback, who in days of yore was even more glamorous and prestigious than the USC tailback, are mind-boggling. The problem isn't rooted in a dearth of talent; as further evidence, consider Randy Wright, who came to South Bend in 1979 with nary an all-America men­tion. He is now the starting quarter­back for the Wisconsin Badgers, throwing for nearly 200 yards per 

game. Certainly, Gerry Faust didn't create this situation, but he's got to live with it. And, although Faust has 
. had two years to recruit, his two all­America quarterbacks -Ken Kar­cher ( 1981 ) and Todd Lezon 
( 1982) -have yet to throw a pass for the Irish. 
The origin ofthe sad state ofquar­terbacking at Notre Dame is unclear. It might be overrated talent, coach­ing shortcomings, play selection or any number of factors. What is clear is that things will have to change. 
Maybe, the teachings ofnew quar­terback guru Ron Hudson, a disciple of San Francisco .f9er Coach Bill Walsh. will take hold all ofa sudden, and turn things around overnight. That would he splendid for Kiel, be­cause truly, it couldn't happen to a nicer guy. At stake for the game young man is a year and a half of peace of mind. 
Such a turnabout, !hough, would be a godsend for Faust. Because he's playing for even big­ger stakes. 
r-----------------­
Special Rates Sheraton Inn !lo. 
(BD-•Pitt) $29.95 plus taw 
Up to 4 people/room 
with this coupon 
Sheraton Inn Borth
I I I 
I 4859 McK11~ght Rd.
I I Pitt.,:::?a. ~~237
I 
I
,I (412) 355-5200 
I ___________________ 
Collectible Records 
hard to find out of print records 
Lincolnway East and Cedar in Mishawaka 
(5 blocks east of downtown) 
Tues.-Fri. 5-8 p.m. Sat. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 

J 
,The.Observer========c=============== 
Weekend 
Friday, October 22, 1982 -page 15 
f)()()11esnl.lf)T 


'fE AH, fH( Pf(SSuR( 
HAS S£fN PRr-rry 
INffNSt 
' 




The Daily Crossword 

ACTUAl/..'!, PHIL, FR/JM 711& tf)(}KS OF 7Hcst3 R61JR£5, I'/J 5/lYJILL i 1IWie OF YOUR COM­
1 

f1/N/&5 AI<& RIPe ~~~ n(1; FOR J/COU/5/Tf~N 11 
NINE! I TttYJGHf IT WA5 fl WEEK .1 



1-\t'Y HO. HEY, ITs Otfo&£R 6RfAK AND r M OU.ffA fiEKfI 
ACROSS 26 Pop·eyed 1 Cattle like one? the zebu 28 Seychelles' 6 Mme., in island Spain 29 Surprise· 
9 Shaggy ox holder 12 Household 31 Game with 13 Cause pain blocks: var. 15 Unplanned 33 "-for the 17 Musical grace..." 
instrument 34 Feel bad 18 Not one to 35 Claim maker complain 39 Gossip's 
19 Pacific meat island 43 Draw a ­group 44 Last inning 
20 -Baba 46 German 21 Long time article 22 Scottish 47 Kind of 
river interest: 24 Hawaiian abbr. goose 48 Chap. and ­
Thursday's Solution 

Garry Trudeau 

GET MY OT~fR CA'SE~!! 
t­
I('·Z'-

Photiu~ 
I ~UfSS EV£~YONE'S FE:ELIN' ABOUT THt SAME". 
£N10YfH( ' 
SR(AA,M~. 
~' 
~ 


49 Aunt: Sp. 14 "-Neigh· 50 King: Fr. bor's Wife" 52 -Ataturk 15 Loud noise 54 Play 16 Composed 
divisions 23 Truly! 55 Windycay 25 Went out 
advice 26 Like cer· 58 Hunted one tain grain 59 Fills with 27 Insect 
delight ' 28 Pooh's 60 Comedian creator Louis 30 Impediment 61 Scatter 32 Farrow grass of films 62 Presumed 35 Leadoff letters DOWN 36 Disease 1 Bunge of 37 "-Vita" tennis 38 Held firmly 2 Single 39 Made a time deviation 3 Bleacher 40 Abandoned sound 41 O'Day and 4 Ottoman Bryant titles 42 Most insig· 
5 Something nificant for a rainy 45 Jules Verne day hero 
6 Besmirched 51 Mount in 7 Campus org. Crete 8 Curve 52 Leg joint 9 Site of 53 "Damn 
Mayan Yankees" empire witch 10 Tribe of 54 Comedian the plains Johnson 11 Stabler or 55 Clucker Berry 56 Choose 12 Bully, at 57 Mideast times acronym 

Campus 
FRI. OCT. 22 
•12: 
IS p.m. -Meeting, Italian Club Met::ting, faculty Dining Room, 

•!2:50 
p.m. -Colloquium, "Bridging Metap­hysics, Theory, and Practice: Political Science and Gt::neral Education", Prof. David Leege, 1201 Mt::morial Library, 

• 
5: IS p.m. Economic Department Workshop, "Income and Industrial Policy", james 

K. 
Galbraith, jjI O'Shaughnessy, 

• 
j:jO p.m. -Lecture, "Quantum Field Theory for Philosophy", Dr. Michael Redhead, Library Lounge, Sponsored by Department ofPhilosophy, 

•8 
p.m. -Travelogue, Lions Club Travelogue on San Francisco, Dougjones, O'Laughlin Auditorium, 

SAT.OCT.23 

•8 
a.m. -Graduate Management Admission Test, Engineering Auditorium, 

•8:50 
a.m. -Numerical Taxonomy Sym­posium, "Evaluation and Comparison of Clas· sitkations", CCE, 

•!:50 
p.m. Numerical Taxonomy Symposium, "Quantitative Aspects of Historical Biogeography of Geographic Variation, and of ln­terplace", CCE, 

•j 
p.m. EST-Football, Notre Dame vs. Oregon, at Oregon, 

•"':.'>0 
p.m. -Numerical Taxonomy Con­ference , "On The Early Origins of Major Biologic Groups", Dr. David :\1. Raup, CCE, 

•H 
p.m. -Concert, ,\1id-America Dance Com­mpany Concert, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Sponsored hy the :\lichiana Hallet ofElkhart, s:. SO SUN.OCT.24 

•H:.'>O 
a.m. Numerical Taxonomy Sym­posium, "Problems in :\1ultivariate Analysis", CCE, 

•1 
0 a.m. -Modern Railroad Exhibit and Sale, ACC, 

•1 
p.m. -Opening Art Exhibit, "Traditional African Art in the Britt Family Colkction", Snite 


\1u~eum. 

• 2:50 p.m. -Audobon Society Film, "Smokt::y \lountain .\lagic", Carroll Hall, S2. ~0 
T.V. Tonight 
i 
6p.m. 
6!30p.m. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8p.m. 
9p.m. 
10p.m. 
10:30 p.m. 
11 p.m. 11:30p.m. 

16 -.:ewsCenter I6 22 22 Eyc\.vitnc~~ ~c\\·~ 28 "ew,wat<.:h lH 34 \lacNeilii.ehrer Report 16 .\I*A*S*H 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 16 The Power' of ,\lathew Star 
22 Duke' of Hazzard 
28 BenM>n 
34 Wa,hington Week in Review 
28 The :-.lew Odd Couple 
34 Wall Street Week 16 !\.night R1der 22 Dallas 28 <ireate't American Hero 34 TBA 16 Remington Steele 
22 Falcon Cre't 28 The <~uest :H Religion and Sociall"ue' 16 -.:ew,cemer I6 22 12 Eyc\\·iEne~!'t ~e\\·s 28 :-.<ewswatch lH 34 The Dick Cavell ~how 16 Tonight Show 22 CBS ble \lovie 28 ABC :-.<ews :'<ightline 34 Captioned ABC :-.<ew' 28 1-riday' 16 Late :-.<ight With David I.euerman 
• 
CHECK IT OUT!II 

CLONE 
IN CONCERT 
Sr. 8r-Sunday, Oct. 31 9:30-12:30 Cost: J1/person ALL WELCOmE!! 

Soccer teatn etnbarks on southern sw-ing 
ByALGNOZA named the place. You gotta figure Sports Writer the Irish are hoping its a breather. Notre Dame will not he without 
For the past three years Notre its trouble" as the team trys to Dame soccer coach Rich Hunter has overcome key injuries to jay always scheduled grueling road trips Schwartz (ankle) and Mike Sullivan for his team over fall break. The team (a chronic leg injury). seemingly ended up on the other "It's pretty hard to replace those side of Siberia playing against some two players," says Berry. "They're pretty good soccer team. A "break" both midfielder" and they both have it definitely was not. a lot ofexperience." 
This year is no ditferent. as the The injury situation has t(Jrced Irish head south this time for a four­Hunter to make at least one change game road swing with Kentucky, so far this week. Steve Chang has North Carolina-Greensboro, Bel­been shifted from the from line to a mont Abbey (college. that is) and halthack position. Wake Forest. As far as the hoped-for ~CAA 
What is the road to many Irish tournament bid is concerned, the players will be home to ~otre Dame players would have to be as crazy as senior Steve Berry. a native of Digger Phelps 1,0 he optimistic about Greensboro and a resident expert an invitation this year. Unless a tor­
on the upcoming opponents. "Wake nado romps through Akron Univer­Phil Carter (.!2), ranked the nation's l""th afternoon in Eugene. Carter, a native ofTacoma, Forest is very good,;, Berry ~ays. sity, the Irish will be sitting in their leading rusher, shown bere in last Saturday's loss Wasb., will be returning to bis home territOT)' ­"They tied Penn State, and the Lions dorms come playoff time. to Arizona, will lead 1\'otre Dame's offense tbe Pacific Northwest. See Chris Needles' preview shut Akron out 3-0 (Akron heat Meanwhile, the road trip will against anotber Pac Ten j(Je, Oregon, tomorrow (Photo hy Scott Bower) 
Notre Dame 5-1). commence tomorrow as the team "Greensboro is the No. 2-ranked heads for Lexington, where they will 
Gridders in Oregon 
Division Ill team in the country right spend two days hefore leaving for now. Kentucky is also a pretty good Grcenshoro. They are going by bus. team." "Actually a bus is a luxury for us," 
Irish offense attempts~ comeback 
l Th oh. The Irish have not had a says Berry, laughing. "In the 'old' hi,tory of playing well on previous days we used to pack I 5 guys into a By CHRIS NEEDLES Bm the game itself, which hegins "We're a possession football road trips ofthis type, and th t ey will van tor these trips." !>ports Editor at :' p.m. South Bend time, can be ream," says Irish Head Coach Gerry almost certainly have to play bril­Wednesday's 10-0 win over Val­best described as an anti-climax. Faust. "We've got to control the liantly to come out of this one:: alive paraiso puts the Irish record at 11-4-It'll he a battle of two struggling This entire week has been one big football, because we haven't been a 
after going against thret: quality 2. They have one more home game offenses tomorrow as Notre Dame. celehration for the entire city of team that has been able to depend teams. remaining on the schedule, a fresh off its surprising 16-I 3 loss to Eugene, which really hasn't had a on big plays to turn things around. 
The only thing that is known November 2 game again"t Grace Arizona last week, makes its tirst trip whole heckuva lot to cheer about in When we don't hold on to the ball about Belmont Abbey College is that College on Alumni Field, and con­to the Pacilk Northwest in over 30 recent months. Reaganomics has hit and we don't execute -and we tt ts somewhere in North Carolina clude their season November 6 at years to take on the winless Oregon this region hard -unemployment didn't do either very well in the 
and that Robin Hood probably Toledo. Ducks. in the tishing indu~tries there is ap­second half against Arizona -then proaching 20 percent, and people we'll have problems." are fleeing the area faster than the But you think they've got joad family in Tbe Grapes ofWrath. problems ... 
The game and the accompanying Oregon has penetrated the goal festivities are expected to con­line just seven times all year, and the tributed a much-needed Sl.'i mil­Ducks average only 235 yards a lion to the struggling Oregon game total offense. Coach Rich 
If Skip Desjardin isn't saying "I told you so," to 
economy. The Eugene Hilton has Brooks has had to play "musical everybody within earshot, he ought to be. Not only did even constructed an additional eight quarterbacks" to try to get some Notre Dame's offensive offensive performance Saturday 
I'd want Blair Kiel, but • • • 
bars to accommodate the intlux of production, but all four signal­
Craig Chvol 

callers that have seen action thus far heyday, but it also made the Sports Editor Emeritus look That fact alone should tell you have combined to complete just 41 like Carnac the Magnificent. that a good portion of the crowd percent of their passes. While everybody else was basking in the glow of an­tomorrow will he rooting for Notre Sophomore Mike jorgensen won other Notre Dame miracle, Desjardin had the insight, in Dame. The last time the Irish even this week's lottery, so he will get the these very pages, to take notice that only Notre Dame's came near the state ofOregon was in starting nod at quarterback. Jorgen­staunch defense and the ineptitude ofits opponents had the type of pass he is throwing. Kid's average gain per 1949, when Frank Leahy rook his sen has only thrown eight passes all 
make Arizona's defense look like the Steel Curtain in its tans. 
• kept the Irish from repeating the disaster that was 1981. completion is just 9.39 yards, with a long gain of 2'i eventual National Championship year, which probably means that he It sure didn't take Notre Dame long to convince Desjar­yards. He has thrown seven interceptions in the last team to Washington where they has failed the least often of the four. din's skeptics how right he was. three games, and has yet to throw a touchdown pass this rolled m·er the Huskies, 2""-·~. So !lis "challengers," if you want to call There is a lot to be said for being talented and gutty season. Kiel has shown a proficiency for short-hopping these ~orthweM Domers arc pretty them that. include senior Kevin Lusk enough to win in spite ofa sub-par performance. In fact, t the ball to wide-open receivers and not tinding secon­desperate to see their beloved. ( 2-i-of-s-, 2(>-+ ~ an.b, seven inter­it is imperative for great teams to be able to do just that. dary targets. Rather than being an off-day, Kid's perfor­That is why AutLen Stadium will ceptions). freshman Dana Hill ( 8-of-
But Notre Dame's offensive problems against the mance Sawrday illustrated the norm. Hut there is little be bulging at the seams tomorrow. 26, 6: yards ) and sophomore Wildcab weren't a one-shot deal. On the contrary, tht· sense belaboring the subject. Cap..city is listed as --12,000, and that Edmund Rivera. who was a stellar l­Irish offense has been in shambles since halftime of the Kiel was true to form after Saturday's game as well. should be surpassed easiiy. The ot~-with four mterceptions last Purdue game. Rather than making alibis for his showing, Kiel publicly stadium record, --1--1,200 against week against California (a I 0--; Duck Although the depth of Notre Dame's offcnsi\e and personally took the blame tor the sputtering Notre Washington in 19-1, could be in defeat). maladies defies a simple explanation, the quarterback Dame offense. He quite likely accepted too much jeopardy. if the weather holds up. Senior fullback Terrence jones, siwation can no longer be ignored. The plain truth is blame_ but it was the kind ofreaction people have come And about 12,000 of those figure to who wasn't even on the depth charts 
that Blair Kiel is not a major college quarterback. to ex1)ect from Kiel. he :'\lotre Dame tans. at the beginning of the year, is That is quite unfortunate, and not just from the point Fortunately for Blair Kiel, the positive qualities in­And, oh yeah, there u•ill be a Oregon's leading rusher with ::'>8--i ofview ofKiel's teammates. stilled in him, and tested so severely during his ordctl .1s game, too. yards in 8--1 carries. Jones. who is Two years ago, Blair Kiel arrived at Notre Dame. He Notre Dame quarterback, will serve him htr longt·r dun The Iri'h (-1-I ) cnrer tomot-row's starting hccause of decimating in­
• 
was a freshman. highly touted and thrust into the any on-the-field shortcomings -real or inLlj.(lll< , ._.,:tc·-: " 1h thnr detcn.,e as >lrong juries to the backfield, is coming off middle of a five-man fray for the starting quarterback will han1pcr him. .1~ ever. tiH:tr injul'll'' rel;tt i' ('I\ 1111111-hi.~ best performance of the year, a job. Four weeks into that 1980 season, the job was If l owned a corporation, I d want Blair Kiel makmg ''""· ,UHI their o1tcnse ,,fticially "')-yard etlort against the Bears last 
Kid's, and he has held it ever since, save the rotating my big decisions; if I had an army, I'd want Kicl it'admg declared nussmg 111 actioto. week. quarterback soap opera last fall. my troops; if I had a daughter. I'd want her to lll.trry In the last three game~. ;\lotr<: The Ducks' lone specialty, one 
What impressed observers most about the then­Blair Kiel -or at least a clone. Hut we're not talking Dame has managed only two touch­which might just make this game freshman. though, was not Kiel's football ability, but his about love, war or money -if I owned a t(JOtball team. down~. both on the ground. The Interesting, is their special teams. character. Kicl would be my punter. Period. Irish still, believe it or not. do not Three of their seven touchdowns 
\X'ith a list of honors and accolades as lengthy as the Not being capable of living up to the legend of Notre have a passing touchdown this year. this year have come while the op­NFL players' demands, it would have been easy for Kiel Dame quarterbacks past is no great sin. It is tough to Blair Kit;!, after a fast stan. has position has been in punt formation to be cocky and self-important. Instead, he was quietly point a finger at Kicl, who does e\-ef)·thing that's asked come down to eartl1 to throw seven -two blocks tor scores and one confident. and even admitted that he was homesick. ofhim -and then some. He may well be the best quar­interceptions in the last three punt return tor a TD. 
In the interim. Kiel has endured a 'i-6 season, coupled terback on campus. And that is scary -because it weeks, including three crucial pick­AII-Pac Ten cornerback Steve with an u .nerYing hattie for his quarterback job with helies a problem that goes far beyond Blair Kiel. ofts last Saturday against Arizona. Brown has averaged a whopping Tim Koegel, who was reunited with the high school Since the tall of 1977. no fewer than I 5 high school As a result. kicker Mike Johnston 23.1 yards on 1-punt returns this coach he starred for. (ierry Faust. And through it all, all-America quarterbacks have enrolled to play t(JOthall has become the major source of of­year, and will he going against an 
·1\:Jel'~ class. poise and maturity wavered not. tor Notre Dame. Granted, a handful of those players fense. The senior from Rochester. Irish special team that has already l'nfortunatel\', any change in Kid's quarterbacking were ticketed for other positions right from the; get-go . ~.Y .. is a perfect 11-of-11 in Held surrendered one touchdown so far . tbility has been just as subtle. Anoth<:r, \1arty Finan. was an unhlrtunate victim of an goab this season. and is running (to \1ichigan's Anthony Carter) and Although Kid has dramatically improved his comple­away with the tean; lead in ~coring 
See DUCKS, page 11

tion percentage in 19H2, that is largely attributable to See KIEL, page 14 with --11 poinb. 








