~--------------------~------------­
• • .Nuclearwar -page 7 

VOL. XVII, NO. 12 the indepemlt:nt student newspaper serving notre tlame and saint mary's TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1982 
Americans killed as Spanish plane crashes 
MALAGA, Spain (AP) -A char­and that there were some Canadians tered DC-1 0 loaded with Americans on board. heading home from a Spanish vaca­Civil Air Authority investigators tion crashed on takeoff yesterday, said .preliminary findings pointed to skidded across a highway and caught engine failure as a cause ofthe crash. fire, killing at least 46 people and ·The pilot tried to bring the plane possibly as many as 77. down immediately following liftoff 
Officials said 1 13 others were and one of the engines was found in injured, 14 ofthem seriously. a field near the crash site. 
Many of the victims apparently Bill Duane of New York City said burned to death in the tail section of he and his wife became separated the Spantax Airlines jetliner, which during the scramble to evacuate, but had been bound for New York from that he found her later outside the this Mediterranean resort in south­wreckage. He also said the cabin's ern Spain. It was carrying a full ceiling fell in, which added to the complement of 380 passengers and panic. a crew of 13, the airline said. "We ran to a concrete bridge that 
"The rear exits did not work," said goes over a railroad track and Hal Lavine of Tamarac, Fla., one of watched the plane," he said. "The the survivors. "People pushed for­tail was on~fire. We stood there for ward. There was screaming and about five minutes and that was too panic. A big cloud of black smoke much." 
poured into the cabin." A New Yorker who did not want He said he believed many of the to be identified said he jumped passengers in the rear were down a chute from the front of the 
Workers search through the wreckage of the 
overcome by smoke and unable to Spantax Airlines DC-10 lhat crashed on talle-off
See CRASH, page 4 
get out in time. in J1alaga, Spain yesterday. The chartered plane The Spanish transportation minis­ter, Luis Gamir, said at an airport news conference yesterday that 46 people were known dead, including two who died of their injuries in Carlos Haya Hospital, and 31 others 

Burke Diakes plans for homefootball opener 
were missing. He said 83 of the injured remained hospitalized, he said. 

ByDANKOPP after the game, there will be an Irish graduate students and freshmen will parking was moved to the stadium. 
Rescuers would continue to 

StaffReporter band at the Senior-Alumnae Club. be in a lottery for 145 tickets. 
Off-campus student parking issearch for victims in the wreckage Strake also explained the student Finally, Senator Bill Coleran told through the night, Gamir said. 
Student Body President Lloyd ticket distribution for the Michigan the group that he had talked to located behind that ofon-campus in He said a definitive list of victims 
Burke last night stressed the impor­State game. The senior, junior and Security Director Glenn Terry about 
the hope that the students walking
was expected to be released today. tance of fan behavior at this Satur­sophomore class governments will the change in parking lots. TerryA spokesman for the U.S. Embassy day's nationally televised Notre through the lots daily will deter
each receive 100, 85 and 70 tickets, told him the faculty and staff lotsin Madrid said 210 American Dame-Michigan football game. 
respectively. St. Mary's students, needed to be expanded so student crime and vandalism.

citizens and 85 Spaniards residing in He asked the members of the the United States were aboard the Senate to tell their constituency that plane, Flight No. 995, originating in "a little restraint from the totally ab­Accusedoj-mobties
Madrid with a stopover in Malaga. 
surd would be warranted." He said the embassey did not have 
Burke also said Ticket Manager names or know how many Steve Orsini explained the lines stu­Americans were killed or dents annually experience when 

Donovan clearedofcharges
hospitalized. picking up football and basketball 

Carefree David, a tour broker tickets. "Right now the limitation is NEW YORK (AP) -A special In releasing his second report in His father, William Masselli, had which organizes tours and sells computers -they don't have any. prosecutor said yesterday that a three months, Silverman disclosed been scheduled to testify before a them to travel agencies, said in The ultimate goal is to use our I.D.s renewed inquiry had again found that two witnesses recanted allega­grand jury looking into Donovan's Miami that the agency had booked like at the dining halls," said Burke. "insufficient credible include that tions against Donovan. Asked ifit ap­affairs. 208 travelers for a two-week tour of Burke also announced that Sun­Labor Secretary Raymond Donovan peared Donovan was being framed, The younger Masselli was not 
Spain that started Aug. 30 from New day there will be a showing of what associated with mobsters while he Silverman said he would not spec­murdered because of his role in the ­York. Leonard Lansburgh, president ulate on th~ witnesses' motivations.
he called, "supposedly the best was a construction company ex­Donovan investigation, Silverman
of the agency, said the people were Silverman also said "there appears
Notre Dame highlight film ever." ecutive." said, adding, "I believe I know the
from all over the United States and as to be no evidence of a relationship"
The fifty minute film will be Prosecutor Leon Silverman said motive (for the murder,) but I'm not
far as he knew, not associated with between his investigation and the
screened in the library auditorium he investigated various reports, at liberty to say." any particular group. He said other 
Aug. 25 murder ofNattan Masselli. 

every hour on the hour. including allegations that Donovan Silverman said he was concludingtravel agencies were believed to 
Contrary to some news reports,

In other senate action Student had met with mobsters, funneled his probe of Donovan, which was 9
Silverman said, Masselli was not an

have booked other passengers. Union Director Steve Strake an­Teamsters union political contribu­months old, but would be willing to
informant, had never been wired

He said a majority of the nounced that before the game the tions and been present when a kick­accept a new appointment to
with eavesdropping equipment and

Americans were from the New York Student Union will sponsor a disc back was offered. reopen the investigation "if any.
knew his cooperation with federalarea, two to four people from Florida jockey behind the back-stop. Then, But Silverman said, "I continue to 

See Labor, page 5 




Activities funding deadline Wednesday 

By DIANE DIRKERS 
SeniorStaffReporter 
The deadline for any student club, organization, or special project 

to apply for student activities funding is tomorrow. September 1 5, 
according to Director ofStudent ActivitiesJim McDonnell. 
Each year student government allocates 80 percent ofthe ~tudent 

acti\'ities fees to establbhed clubs, organizations, and projects. The 
remaining 20 percent is appropriated to interested clubs by a stu­
dent government subcommittee consisting of both students and ad­
ministrators. 
The source of these funds is the S30 student activities fee that 

each student pays annually along with tuition. 
This vear more funds will be available than ever before, according 

to McDonnell...Funding for clubs and organization!> has increased 
substantially in the past few years. Four years ago, we allocated 
S7000. Last year the total was $34,000. This year the amount could 
go up to 540,000 or S4'1,000 for clubs, organizations, and special 
projects," McDonnell said. 
authorities could become public.

be concerned by the number of al­legations" about Donovan's ties to organized crime. 
Donovan, in a brief statement 

Off<ampus house 

from Washington, said, "It is tempt­ing, and probably politically or­thodox, for me to say how pleased and gratified I am that this entire 

victifll of robbery 
matter can now be consigned to the 
historians. 
By DIANE DIRKERS more than three minutes. "But,...! am not pleased and I am 
SeniorStaffReporter The victim believes that student not gratified," he said. "Angry that 
residences in the northeast neigh­I've had to endure months and An off-campus residence on North borhood are prime targets for crime. months of relentless press coverage 
St. Louis Street was burglarized late "I'd been living there for the entire of groundless charges made QY last Saturday night. month of August and had no nameless accusers. Angry that my problems until the students
According to the victim -a 
wife and children have suffered as returned," he said, "Any thief in
senior at Notre Dame -the stu­
only a family can suffer. Angry that South Bend knows which houses
dents next door heard a loud crash­
mv former business associates have belong to students."
ing noise at approximately 2:30 a.m. 
b~en unfairly maligned." One of the victim's neighbors has
The resident returned from Senior 
"I have always known that the lived on North St. Louis Street for fif­
Bar at 3:30 a.m. to find the center 
charges against me were lies and I teen years and has yet to be
panel of his triple-bolted front door 
have told you so," Donovan said. burglarized. "There are only a few
kicked in. 

"That is why I believe the public, student homes on the block," the
The thieves escaped with a stereo 
with their American sense of fair student explained, "and they are
receiver, turntable, and two 
play, shares my anger." broken into several times a year. The
speakers valued at a total of $400. 
~---­



News Brie/§ 
By The Obsert,er and The Associated Press 
The government approved yesterday the merger of three Western railroads, the Union Pacific, Missouri Pacific and Wes­tern Pacific, into a single line that will serve 21 states from the Puget Sound to the Gulf coast. Despite protests from competing railroads, the Interstate Commerce Commission said shippers and the public will benefit from the combination. The railoads are expected to begin formal merger proceedings within 30 days. The prospective merger has been one ofthe most controversial in recent years. Ship­pers will be better served by the single line that would allow goods to go directly across two-thirds ofthe nation. "With this decision the commission has endorsed a privatesector proposal that will increase efficiency and competition. -AP 
Israeli jets blasted Syrian and Palestinian military positions yesterday in east Lebanon's Oekaa Valley and Lebanese radio stations reported that 30 soldiers and guerrillas were killed. The new Israeli air strikes heightened the possibility of a major confrontation be­tween Israeli and Syrian soldiers in Lebanon. Itwas the fourth time in five days that Israeli warplanes carried out raids against the Syrians to retaliate for what Israel called Syrian violations of the Lebanese ceasefire. The strikes left several military emplacements afire, Lebanese radio stations reported. Israel said the attacks ended yes­terday afternoon and all planes returned safely. Israel said the attacks were on Syrian missile batteries, Palestine Liberation Organization positions and rocket launchers. State and privately owned Lebanese radio stations called the air assaults the heaviest mounted by Israel against the Syrians in the Bekaa since a cease-fire silenced their guns in -east Lebanon onJuly 23. -AP 
The Vatican yesterday angrily rejected Israel's charges that the church kept silent about the Nazi massacre ofJews in World War II. The Israelj.-criticism was prompted by Pope John Paul II's decision to meet with PLO chiefYasser Arafat. The Vatican called the Israeli a<OCusation an "insult to the truth." Representatives ofinterna­tionalJewish organizations, expressing the "deep shock oforganized Jewry" about the papal audience scheduled for tomorrow, made a formal protest to the Vatican. Arafat's Palestine Liberation Organiza­
tion, sworn enemy of the Jewish state, does not recognize Israel's existence. The Vatican note defended the record ofthe Roman Cath­olic Church in savingJews during World War II and noted that Pope John Paul II has spoken out against the genocide on many occasions, including during a 1979 visit to the Nazi death camp at Auschwitz in his native Poland. -AP 
A New Orleans woman descended from an 18th century slave and a white planter testified yesterday against a Louisiana law that permits her to be classified as black because she has more than one-32nd "Negro blood." Susie Guillory Phipps is one of six members trying to have the state Bureau change her racial status from black to white. The state refused to do so under a 1970 law declaring that anyone with at least one-32nd "Negro blood" a be legally classified as black. The law was intended to reform an oldJim Crow statute that relied on "common report" in determining an in­fant's race, according to Phipps' attorney, Brian Begue. "1 am white," the light-skinned woman with Caucasian features and straight black hair told a hearing officer in New Orleans district court. Her suit mentions no harm that may have resulted from being classified as black. -AP 
Soviet President Leonid 1. Brezhnev yesterday awarded Orders of Lenin to three cosmonauts -including the second woman to fly in space. "There was a time when people won­dered about the practical return ofspace research," the official news agency Tass quoted Brezhnev as saying. "Today there is no such question. Astronomy, the weather service, medicine, biology, agriculture, metallurgy and numerous other fields in which man applies his intellect and hands need data which can only be obtained in space orbits. Investment in space exploration is beginning to pay back with abundance." Cosmonauts Leonid Popov, Alexander Serebrov and Svetlana Savitskaya spent nine days in space, eight of them aboard the orbiting Salyut-7 space station, on a mission that ended Aug. 27. Two other cosmonauts sent aloft May 17 remain aboard the space station. In addition to Orders of Lenin, Savitskaya -and Serebrov were awarded the title Hero of the Soviet Union and the Gold Star medal. Popov has twice been named Hero ofthe Soviet 
Union. -AP 

About 20 drunken motorcyclists attending a bikers' rally smashed windows and threw stones at a police station near Warsaw, Poland after authorities stopped them to check their papers, the newspaper Zycie Warszaury reported yesterday. The paper said I 0 people were arrested Friday night but did not say how many injuries there were. It reported the station was "demolished." The rally, scheduled to start Saturday at )edlinsk, about 37 miles south ofWarsaw, was ordered canceled. -AP 
An OffiCial of the U.S. Agency for International Develop­ment and his wife were tied up and robbed of cash and valuables worth S2,1 70 at their house in downtown Bangkok yesterday, a city police officer said. The officer identit1ed the couple as jerry). Wood and his wife Patricia. Their hometowns were not immediately known. -AP 
Partlv cloudy today with a 3o percent chance of thun­derstorms,bighs in the low to mid 80s. A 50 percent chance ofthun­derstorms tonight, with lows in the upper 60s. Tomorrow, partly cloudy with a slight chance of thunderstorms. -AP 
------------------. 

Tuesday, September 14, 1982-page 2 
Life before death 
The recent death of a Notre Dame Sophomore is a reminder ofhow suddenly death can affect our lives. Of all the the livingcreatures on earth, humans are the only ones which ponder their own demise. Yet most of us attempt to avoid the subject ofdeath entirely. 
Even when people try to face up to their mortality, it is often in a clumsy and off-hand manner. It is something that "can't happen to me." As you can read elsewhere in this paper, a plane crashed yesterday in Spain. A majority of the passengers survived which prompts many to be thankful that "only a few died." However this is not comforting to the victim's relatives and friends. They are concerned only with their own per­sonal grief. 
The funeral ritual is a good example of mankind's ef­forts to cope with death. Well wishers come to "honor the dead," and "pay their last respects." However, the deceased certainly doesn't care how many mourners there are. Instead, the funeral rituals serve to relieve and mask the grief ofthe berieved. People ridden with guilt because they treated the deceased unfairly while he or she was alive, can soothe their consciences through displays ofaffection that may have been better shown while the deceased was alive. 
Most people leave only 
their memories when they 
knowing they could have 
die. A president or a scientist done more for the person. 
may leave acheivemnts that You don't have to have a live on for years. But the fatalistic attitude either. average person touches ' a Friendships and relation­few lives, does his or her ships are ever more tran­best to survive, and quietly sitory and fragmented. passes on. Here at Notre People who our lives Dame we honor the acheive-. revolve around today, may ments of Father Sorin. But ·. .,."" never be seen again after how about his first students? graduation. As a result we No one remembers them. are touching more lives then How many people walking those of even a generation through the Administration ago. Thus it is even more im­Building stop and reflect portant to treat others as about those who previously best as possible. After all, 
roamed the same corridors. 
while the unthinkable-mayAll the people who helped 
not happen, we still lose build and design the Dome ' 

are gone, yet their building remains. And in another 100 years all ofus will be gone too. 
In the scope oftime our lifetimes are mere specks. All the more reason to make the most ofthem. People who have had close brushes with death often react by saying "they plan to live life to the fullest." These people claim to now have a better concept of life's value. Should a person have to face death to comprehend it? 
Humans are social animals. People probably spend more time worrying about how they stand socially with regards to loved ones, friends, and overall status. This is especially true for people ofcollege age. It is at first hard to comprehend that one has to now assume a role in "adult" society. Our relationships with others are supposed to be handled on a mature basis. Such maturity can prove more elusive then good grades. Yet a persons happiness as they go through life depends on how succesful they are in their relations to others. 
All ofus know how important are families and friends 
are to us. Although we don't always show it, our lives 
revolve around them. In later years, as shocking as it seems now, most of us will have mates and even children. Studies have shown the life span of elderly people is shortened by the death of their mate. The widow or widower is lost without the person they devoted so much time to. People who are students today will find themselves on the other side of the fence, when they catch themselves berating their children for not spending more time with them. 

Most of the world's major religions have the love of 
your fellow humans as their central thesis. From our 
earliest days, we are told to share our toys, be polite, 
turn the other cheek, help those in need, and a mul­
titude ofother niceties. Most of us do a fair job at living 
up to these dictums. But we could really do better. 
What a tragedy it is when someone dies and those left 
behind suffer the guilt of 
T people we hold dear. 
Finally, are you living your own life the way you would like toQ? If you died today, would you leave people behind to whom you could have said more? This doesn't mean its time to draft a will. Simply get the most you can out oflife. If we can face our own mortality, we can live "with a clearer perspective about ourselves and others. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of tbe author, and do not necessarily represent the views ofThe Observer or its editorial board. 
Observer note________, 
All Observer staff members are reminded that there is a staff meeting with Walt Collins tonight at 
6:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. All staf­fers are urged to attend. 


Design Editor .............................. Tim Neely Design Assistant.. ......................... Troy Illig Layout Staff.................................. Laura Puk Ken Ccrabona Sarah Kash 
Maureen 

Typesetters .......................... Jim Macl.ennan 
Mark Miotto News Editor ............................ Mike Wilkins 
COPJ' Editor ............................ Valerie Evans B 6:T Layout ............................. Alex SZ1lvas Editorials La}•out .................. Paul McGmn Sports Copy Editor .................. Ed Konrady Typist.. ................................... Karen Miranda 
Marv Beth Poner · Ed Konrady Ad Design ................................Jeannie Euch Photographer ............................ Tom White Guest Appearances ............ Dork Dziedzic 
Ghosts in the machine~ 
Needless a couple of boneheads Rachel Babycakes this Friday 

The Observer (USPS 598 9201 ts published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacalton penods The Observer ts publtshed by the students of Notre Dame and Satnt Marys Cot· lege Subscnpttons may be purchased tor $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnttng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lndtana 46556 
The Observer tS a member of The Associated Press All reproductton nghts are reserved 
Second class postage patd at Notre Dame lndtana 46556 

MARGARITA NIGHT 99¢ 

9:00PM 3:00AM QO IRISH! BEATWOLVERiriES 
' 

The Observer Tuesday, September 14, 1982 -page 3 
Special programming 
Variety key to WSND success 

A group ofstudents waits in line outside tbe Nortb Dining Hall yesterday. Long lines at tbe dining balls bave become a major problem already tbisyear. (Pboto by Tom Wbite) 

e Enjoy a luxurious tlight to the game abOard a plu~h corporate aircratt. e Depart in stvle w1th an onboard connesseu!'S selection in ottine spirtts and snacks : *ALL YOU CAN DRINK* e First class tlight stewardess e Unitormed crew e Enjoy the game well-rested and tr~;e 8! post-game driving 
N.D. vs.MICHIGANSTA.TE depart0ct.2 !O:OOAM 
IRISH AIR EXPRESS 

--SOUTH BEND DIRECT LANSING, MI.-­
35min. Non-stop-Rt. $1)(1 Perperson(min.5). Resv.234-5607 CALL FOR lNFU Ui\ N.\ V Y /PITT/AlRFORCE GAME 
------..---·· ···-------
r
·.',. 

ByJOHN BRESLIN 
News Staff 
"Tomorrow's best rock today" is not only the motto of WSND (AM64) but is also a sign ofthe times at the station. WSND's wide ranged playlist includes substantial amounts of new, undiscovered 
music which station personnel ex­
pect will gain popularity in the future, according to Jack Briganti, music director. 
Lynn Marie Forthaus, A.M. program director, is pleased by the "biggest listenership we've ever had." The disc jockeys strongly en­courage student song requests, as, according to Forthaus, "requests let 

Insanity plea on trial ; Reagan proposes change 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan asked Congress yesterday to bar defendants like the man who shot him, john W. HinckleyJr., from pleading innocent by reason of in­sanity. 
But Reagan shook his head "no" when asked if Hinckley's acquittal in June triggered the revival of an ear­lier administration attempt to restrict the insanity defense. Ifit had been law at the time, Hinckley could not have met the insanity test. 
The administration proposal, which also contains provisions to make it harder to escape conviction because oftainted evidence or to ap­peal to federal courts after convic­tion in state courts, has practically no chance ofpassage this year. 
Presidential Counselor Edwin Meese conceded the legislation probably wouldn't even reach the floor in the current session of Congress. He denied it was timed simply ro win favor in this campaign season. 
In a brief statement to reporters, Reagan said the administration hopes to "simplify the justice system and make it more likely that those who commit crimes pay a price." 
Assodate Attorney General Rudolph W. Giuliani explained that the bill would limit the use ofthe in­sanity defense by redefining insanity to the extent that the government would have to prove only that the defendant had the knowledge and intent to commit a criminal act. 
The insanity defense could still apply "in a situation where a person didn't know what they were doing, someone who had the mental age of a 2-year-old or believed that they were shooting at a tree when in fact they were shooting at a human being," Giuliani said. "It would not apply in all those situations where a person claimed they couldn't con· trol their behavior, or they heard voices or they had some religious impulse.lo commit a crime." 
He added that the redefinition would eliminate the vast majority of insanity pleas in federal criminal cases. Such cases are relatively rare, 
because  most  violent  crimes  are  
violations  of  state,  rather  than  
federal law.  

Giuliani predicted the measure would practically eliminate the parade of psychiatrists testifying before a jury as to the defendant's state ofmind at the time a crime was committed. 
Voter regtstratton 

drive 
Student Government has an­nounced a voter registration drive to be held on Wednesday, Septem­ber 15 and Thursday, September 16. Members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community may register be­tween the hours of 10 and 3, in the LaFortune Student Center. 
Individuals wishing to register are requested to bring a student iden­tification card or a valid driver's license. 
Persons registering at this drive will be qualified to vote in St. Joseph's County and State of Indiana elections. 
Should the administration proposal be adopted, that testimony would be more likely to be heard on­ly by a judge during the pre­sentencing procedures following a defendant's conviction. 
Another major section of the bill would tighten what is known as the exclusionary rule, which provides that prosecutors may not introduce at trial evidence that was gathered illegally. 
"The exclusionary rule has never helped an innocent person," Meese said. 
The rule, however, grows out of the Constitution's prohibition ofun­reasonable search and seizure. The administration bill would permit the use of any evidence gathered by police who thought at the time were acting legally~ even if a judge later determines they exceeded their authority. 

us play exactly what the students want to hear." WSND allots half of it s musical broadcast to listener re­quests, and one quarter each to clas­sic rock and newly released material. 
The station broadcasts from 7 a.m. to 1 am. each day. A popular album is featured every weeknight at 11 :00 
p.m. Briganti reviews the chronological history of a musical act each Sunday at 8:00p.m. on his "Rock in Retrospect" show. He will feature "The Who" before the band's upcoming Chicago concerts. On Sundays from 6:00-8:00 p.m. Tim Neely highlights hits from the past on" Top Twenty Time Tunnel" 
The new "Speaking of Sports" show, run by sports director Bill Lanesey, airs Tuesday nights from 
10:00 to 11:00 p.m. Students may call in and ask guest celebrities sports-related questions. "If people want to talk sports, this is the place to do it," suggests Lanesey. 
WSND FM(88.9) has been "a fine arts station since we started," according to Charlie Burns, F.M. program director. Burns and the other announcers play strictly classi­cal music, and present syndicated orchestra broadcasts daily at 8:00 .p.m. The only station in the area to play opera, WSND will soon air live broadcasts of the Metropolitan Opera. The announcers recom­mended the "Nocturne Night Flight," which provides students awake after midnight with a variety of progressive jazz music selections. 
InTERESTED In TAKinG A CLASS lit BALLROOM DAnCinG? 
Beginning September 1 5 a five week course will be held on Saint Mary's campus in the Regina Hall basementlounge from 6:15pm to 7:45pm 
SIG" UP "OW I" THE SAI"T MARY'S 
STUDE"T ACTIVITIES OFFICE phone: 284·4561 Cost is only SZ 5 for five weeks! 
This offer is ~ limited to "o ~~ Dame and Saint Mary 1-t-;~~~ students on I ~ 










AJJI\Ql)Ail 
1JJJ\@1ID11.EAi&? 
CQme pick up your DOME 
At the Dome office 3rd floor LaFortune 
Wednesday, Sept. IS Thursday, Sept. 16 3:00-5:00 pm 1981-82 yearbooks for those who missed them! 

The Observer Tuesday, September 14, 1982-page 4 
$120 million 

Westmoreland sues CBS for libel 

WASHINGTON (AP)-Gen. Wil­liam C. Westmoreland, claiming he
~ 
was libeled by CBS in a documentary which said U.S. military leaders purposely underestimated encmy troop strength in Vietnam, sued the network for S 120 million yesterday. 
Westmoreland called the program, broadcast in January. "vicious, false, and contemptible." 
But Van Gordon Sauter. president of CBS News, said, "we stand by tht: broadcast," which he called "a valid journalistic broadcast about an im­portant issue in the Vietnam war." 
CBS will fight the suit "not only because we see this suit -totally devoid of merit, hut because it con­
stitutes a serious threat to independ­ent journalism in our society," Sauter said. 
The suit was filed in federal court in Greenville, S.C., according to Dan Burt, Westmoreland's attorney. The retired four-star general, who headed the Army for four years in Vietnam, lives in South Carolina. 
The action seeks S40 million in general damages and S80 million in punitive damages. The money will be donaed to charity if he wins, Westmmoreland said. 
In the 90-minute documentary, "The Uncounted Enemy -..:. A Viet· nam Deception," the network said 


This calculator thinks business. TheTI Student Business Analyst: 
If there's one thing undergrad business students have always needed, this is it: an affordable, business-oriented calculator. The Student Business Analyst. Its built-in business formulas let you perform complicated finance, accounting and statistical functions-the ones that usually require a lot of time and a stack of reference books, like present and future value calculations, amortiza­tions and balloon payments. 
It all means you spend less time calculating, and more time learning. One keystroke takes the place of many. 
The calculator is just part 
there was a conspiracy to falsity enemy troop strength to present a rosier picture of thewar. 
"When CBS first asked me to par· ticipate in the making of this documentary," Westmoreland said at a news conference. "I had no idea that they had prejudged my par­ticipation in that war. nor that they would attempt to prove that I or anyone else was in any way capable ofany illegal or improper acts." 
Three months later, 7V Guide magazine ran a story entitled "Anatomy of a Smear, How CBS Broke The Rules and 'Got' General 
continuedfrom page 1 

plane and ran to a hill, watching the fire spread until "by the end, the flames were engulfing the entire plane." 
The Americans said the pilot, identified by Spantax as Juan Perez, tried to abort the flight after it bounced on takeoff by reversing engines. The New Yorker said he thought the plane's front tire ex­ploded but that the pilot didn't have 
of the package. You also get 
a book that follows most business courses: the Business Analyse Guidebook. Business professors helped us write it, to help you get the most out of calculator and classroom. 
A powerful combination. 
Think business.  ~  
With the Student  
Business Analyst.  1  
TEXAS  \  

INSTRUMENTS I 
•,~1Jll~2 Tcxns lnstrumems 
Westmoreland." CBS later did its own investigation. 
The network stood by the show. but Sauter said at the time the word conspiracy should not have been used. He also said there were several violations of CBS news standard::. and procedure in the preparation of the broadcast. 
CBS planned in a follow-up ~how scheduled for hroadca~t tomorrow to give Westmoreland 1 S minutes of unedited air time. But the followup was postponed after the network was unable to get anyone to present Westmoreland's \·iew. 
...Crash 
enough runway to brake. 

Spantax Airlines, a Spanish air 
charter company headquartered in 
,Madrid with offices in New York, 
said the plane crashed becae of 
"technical difficulties." Spantex 
reported the pilot told company offi­
cials that the plane had gotten about 
60 feet off the ground when vibra­
tions started, and that he tried to 
power down the engines to abort 
takeoff. 

The crash was the worst in Spain since March 27, I977, when 58S people were killed in Tenerife on the Spanish Canary Islands after a Royal Dutch KLM 747 slammed into a Pan Am 7 4 7 taxiing on the runway. That crash was aviation's worst. 
A Spantax Convair Coronado crashed on landing in Tenerife on Dec. 3. 1972, killing I 55 West Ger­man tourists. 
In Long Beach, Calif, Dave Eastman, a spokesman for McDon­nell Douglas Corp., maker of the wide-body DC-I Os, said two inves· tigators were on their way to Malaga 
to assist Spanish authorities. 

The U.S. Federal Aviation Ad­ministration ordered American car­riers to ground DC-I Os for engine mount checks after an American Airlines crashed at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport on May 2S, 1979. One of the plane's engines ripped away upon takeoff, causing the plane to roll out of control and plunge to the ground. 
Spantax said it had chartered an Iberian Airlines 747 to take the pas­sengers not needing hospitalization to New York yesterday. Survivors were taken to the Holiday Inn and Hotel Riviera. 
Spantax also said it would release the names ofthe victims and the pas­senger manifest after positive iden­tifications were made. 
Family 
planning 

program 

The Natural Family Planning Program of Saint joseph County is again offering information classes on campus this semester. In conjuction with the Notre Dame Campus Minis­try Office, the program will offer an Information Night on Tuesday, Sep­tember 14 at 7:30 in the Galvin Life Science Auditorium. 
A slide show will be shown in­
troducing the natural family plan· 
ning method followed by a brief 
presentation. 

The group will also offer a four­part clinic to engaged and married couples. Registration is now open. The first clinic starts on campus Sep­tember 22. Call Kitty Fulechy for more information. 

------------::------­
The Observer Tuesday, September 14, 1982 -page 5 
--~------------------~­
FutureofSolidarity 

NDgrad lectures on Poland 
By DAN MCCULLOUGH 
News Staff 
"The future of Solidarity appears to be in the waiting stage," accord­ing to Dwayne Bednar, 1982 Notre Dame graduate and feature speaker at the first Cavanaugh Academic Commision lecture ofthe year. 
Bednar, a former Cavanaugh Hall· resident, told of the economic strife and everyday problems the Polish 
Security announces parking restrictions 
Notre Dame security has an­nounced that parking is restricted to vehicles approved by the Athletic Department with special passes in 
. . . Labor 
continuedfrom page 1 
evidence is subsequently developed indicating" a relationship between Masselli's .nurder and Donovan. 
Otherwise, he said, "this is my farewell appearance and I will have nothing more to say." 
Donovan had been investigated on charges that he committed per­jury by denying mob ties before a Senate committee and that Qe wit­nessed an illegal labor peace payoff. 




r--------------------------------------------------------------·---,
Applications for ~ i 
JUntoR paRents' ~~ I I weel<enO chatRP€Rson ~ 
i i
i may be picked up the Student Activities Office i ~ LaFortune Building , ~ 
~ Tues., Sept. 14 ~ i i ~ They must be returned by 5 p.m. on Friday, Sept.l7~ i to the Student Activities Office. i i i 
~.............~.......................,...................................~..................................................................~~........,.............................................................. 
people are experiencing and ap­pealed for relief to aid these people whom he described as "bold." 
Although he said that he had no confrontations with the govern­ment, Bednar told of numerous 
uprisings and stated that, "defiance is a favorite pastime in Poland." Despite the outlawing of Solidarity, and the five-year prison term the wearing ofa Solidarity pin can bring, 
all parking spaces around the foot­ball stadium. 

Parking will be restricted in C-1 and D-1 from today until Saturday, September 18'to make room for the lighting equipment for Saturday night's game against Michigan . 
Alternate parking is available in south C-1 (Red Field West) through Friday and in Green Field through Saturday. Any vehicle violating this restriction may be moved to another location on campus. 
In addition, security notes that faculty, student, staff and visitor parking in A-1, B-1, C-1 and D-1 is restricted on days of all home foot­ball games. Vehicles must have passes issued by the Athletic Depart­ment for parking. Vehicles left in these restricted areas after 8:00 a.m. on days of games will be towed at 
the owner's expense. 

there is still a definite nationwide 
resistance to the communist govern­
ment. 
Bednar called the news given to 
citizens, "a pack oflies" and said that 
most people boycott all news ex­
cept Radio France and the Voice of 
America. He intends to write to 
President Reagan, however, to voice 
a complaint against Radio Free 
Europe, which he' charged is a 
"propaganda campaign against Rus­
sia." 
Bednar hopes that the people of \ 
Poland will set a non-violent ex­
ample for the world during their 
revolution, using the Catholic 
Church as the voice ofreason. "With 
the Church's assistance, we can 
make it," emphasized Bednar. 
After graduating with a degree in Government/International Studies, Bednar went to Poland to "experience first-hand what the 
'... defiance is a 
favorite pastime 
in Poland... ' 
Polish people were going through." Traveling in conjunction with the Kosciuszko Foundation, Bednar spent four weeks in classes and two weeks traveling throughout Poland. 
Anyone interested in contributing to the relief effort or in getting in­volved in the program can contact student Leonard Wardzala. Bednar said that he will return later in the year "if the interest is sufficient." 


. . ..........
~ 


WHO buses leave :· main circle at 
3:45daysofshows

Lim•ted-supply of charter bus tnp packages for The Who Concarts are now on sale at River City Records, 50970 
U.S. 31 North, South Bend, Indiana. Call 277·4242 for further mlormalion. 
Package includes round tnp transportation by deluxe 
lnd•ana Motor Bus Coach. good reserved seat to concer1 
and refreshments on bus . 

~ ~ ~ ~ ~.. ~. .. ..................................................,..........,.,...~·······~·····=· ...................·······.·········• 

----·---------~----------.,..--..::::~~ 


Business & Technology_rue_sda_y,se_ptem_be_r 19s_2_pag_e6
14_, 
EconomicU date 
International Harvester Company said Monday it will ask its stockholders to approve a new offeringofcommon shares as part of the company's financial restructuring. Harvester, which 
expects to lose more than 5900 million this year, is trying to renegotiate terms ofits S4.2 billion debt. InJuly, the company said it wants the 200 banks holding its debt to eliminate all cash interest payments and take some sort ofequity security instead. It also asked the lenders to convert about 5400 million ofthe debt principal into stock or some other kind of equity. These moves would require unanimous approval of the lenders and there has been no word on how the negotiations have been progressing. Harvester said it will hold a special stockholders' meeting on Oct. 28 to present its proposal for issuing more common shares. -(AP) 


Wall Street Update 
The stock market, bidding to revive its late-summer 
rally, staged a sharp advance near the close Monday with blue-chip 
issues leading the way. Analysts said new declines in interest rates 
and a continuing flow of international funds into U.S. investments 
contributed to the advance. The Dow Jones average of 30 in­
dustrials, which had been offmore than 4 points early in the session, 
closed with an 11.87-point gain at 918.69. About five issues rose in 
price for every four that declined on the Big Board, and the ex­
change's composite index gained .62 to 70.03. Nationwide turnover 
in NYSE-Iisted issues, including trades in those stocks on regional 
exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 71.09 million 
shares. -(AP) 
Cars that talk back 
From Discover News Service 
"The door is ajar. Your washer fluid is low. Please fasten your seat belt. Thank you." A back seat driver? No, it is a hortatory electronic voice that will replace warning buzzers and flashing lights as either an op­tion or standard equipment on some 1983 mod~! Chrysler Corporation and Ford cars. 
Unlike the mechanically driven recorded voice systems now available in some Japanese cars, the Ford and Chrysler devices are totally electronic. 
Their sounds are produced by a microcomputer voice synthesizer, which selects electrical tonal com­binations that drive a speaker to produce the desired words. 
In addition to the three warnings issued by Ford's version -door ajar, key left in the ignition, headlights left on with the door open -Chrys­ler's device will alert the driver to eight more problems, including low levels of gasoline and windshield­washer fluid. 

:····································································································· 



oin USC 
The Undergraduate
Schools not Southern Cal 

·Involves: Committee Notre Dame students visiting their former high sch~ols, and other high schools in their areas, ,.~ 
~ durmg the October and Christmas vacations. ~ 0 We welcome responsible students to act as t), 

representatives ofthe University ofNotre Dame • 
Admissions Office. 
Applications are available now through September 15th at the reception desk in the Admissions Office, Room 113, Administration Building. 
.
.
...........•............•...•..................•..........•..•...............••.....•........••..••..., 

~~ 
NOTRE DAME vs. MICHIGAN HOME NIGHT GAME Saturdav. September 18, 1982 

~ Special Attractions *******************• 
..,..SPECIALHOURS. SPECIALMENU. · Open noon to1 am . Featuring our regular dinner menu including all your Bar-B-Que favorites. Famous low prices too! 
SPECIAL CARRY OUT SERVICE· By popular demand: our Hickory smoked ribs and chicken offered 'to go'. Call ahead for details and prompt service. 
SPECIAL SANDWICH MENU. Not available any other time, but for this event.Extra generous B-B-0 Beef, french dip, ham and swiss -each only$4.25or Chicken Teriyaki at$4.95. 

Special Late Night * EARTHSHAKERS $2.00 

SPECIAL 3 drinks in one
* BUCKETS OF BOOZE $4.00 SPECIAL 6ozof booze 
* PITCHERS OF BREW 
SPECIAL :)3.75 
*LITRES OF MARGARIT AS 
SPECIAL $4.95 

11 PM-2:30AM in the lounge only 

62886 us 31 North South Bencl. 272-&478 


· 

Scientists at the University of California at San Diego put a group of Yucatan mini swine on a /00-mile-a-week jogging program to study the effects ofexercise on the heart. (DISCOVER magazine photo by Robert Burroughs) 


Troubled ride for Harley-DaVidson 
By H.JOSEF HEBERT 
Associated Press Writer 
Peter Fonda rode one in "Easy Rider" and Sylvester Stallone took to his Harley in "Rocky III." For beuer than 30 years, the mystique of Harley-Davidson dominated the macho motorcycle world. 
But now America's only remain­
ing manufacturer of motorcycles 
says it is in danger of being run off 
the road by Japanese imports. 
The government is about to inves­tigate complaints from Harley­Davidson Motor Company Inc., that imported Japanese motorcycles ­especially the heavy, highway touring models similar to those built by Harley-Davidson -are making it impossible for the 79-year-old American company to compete. 
Under U.S. law, the International Trade Commission could recom­mend to President Reagan an import quota or additional duties on motor­cycles ifit is determined that the im­ports are the primary reason for 
Harley-Davidson's troubles. 
In a petition filed earlier this month with the commission, the Milwaukee-based, privately held company accused Japanese manufacturers of copying its design and advertising style to grab cus­tomers who have been Harley­Davidson's "traditional support." 
The complaint saysJapanese sales of the powerful open-highway bikes of 700cc and ab_?ve have jumped by 

. Ihe ObserYer___ 
THE NEWS DEPT. will have a meeting for all reporters tonight at 6:30 in the LaFortune Little Theatr~ . All new reporters should attend. 
liiiiiiiiiil&ejourney toC4lifeiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil 
nearly one-third since 1977, while Harley-Davidson's share of the slumping motorcycle market has fal­len. 
During the first six months of this year four Japanese companies ­Honda, Yamaha, Kawasaki, and Suzuki -accounted for nearly 86 percent of the 134,412 over-the­road motorcycles sold in the United States, while Harley-Davidson's share dropped to about 13 percent. 
During much of the 1960s and early '70s, Harley-Davidson collared almost all ofthat market. 
The company told the trade com­mission "there is a serious question how long Harley-Davidson ... can continue to survive" without some temporary restriction on imports. 
"If the import situation continues to deteriorate ... the willingness of (Harley-Davidson's) lenders to con­tinue to support the company will be brought into question," the peti­tion continued. 
Three of the four Japanese manufacturers declined to com­ment on the Harley-Davidson allega­tions, saying they had not thoroughly examined the petition filed with the government. 
A spokesman for Honda, which makes about 40 percent of the motorcycles sold in this country, denied that Japanese manufacturers are to blame for Harley-Davidson's problems. 
~------~ 



Editorials 
Tuesday, September 14, 1982-page 7 
Two women assess coeducation 
Saint Mary's 

Why an all women's college? Comimg from a family ofmostly males, I used to think it was because I couldn't stand them anymore. But there are so many good reasons for choosing Saint Mary's College that it's difficult to pin point just one. 
Kaien Hosinski 
Point 

The real question is, why Saint Mary's and not Notre Dame, or some other place? Well the not Notre Dame part is easy to explain. 
I chose Saint Mary's over Notre Dame for philosophical reasons: I fell in love with Saint.Mary's -the atmosphere, the people, and the academic excellence. Instead ofmil­lionaire's daughters, I found a community of women were devoted to each other. 
The reason I did not want to go to Notre Dame is that I disagree with the fact that it became coeducational. Though I hold no grudges against Notre Dame women, I believe Notre Dame chose coeducation not for any real academic or social reasons, and not for equality of women, but rather be­cause coeducation was a popular education­al trend. 
Why did Ichoose to attend an all-women's college? The all-women's college offers the chance to identify with emotions and goals exclusive to the female gender. While male chauvinists may be unable to empathize with such concepts of male and female, there exists an underlying psychological dis­tinction between the sexes. While women and men are equals, they are different. With the competition between men and women in the job market and in the real world, it is important to understand member's of one's own sex. The all-women's college offer the oppurtunity to begin this process. 
This level of communication between women doesn't exist on a coeducational campus. In a co-ed atmosphere, there is ob­vious competition between females for the attention of males; this is non-existent on a single-sex campus. It's easier to commun­icate without the distractions of basketball captains and gorgeous guys. 
I chose Saint Mary's because I like the at­mosphere and I feel at home here. Iwouldn't trade this experience for anything on earth. 




Notre Dame 
Would one trade Saint Mary's for the chance to identify and communicate with all of the hurn,an race? It seems one would be unrealistic, not to mention short-sighted, in your assessment of the values of a women's institution. 
Karen Miranda 
Counterpoint 
First of all, your attitude is blatantly anti­male, or, if not that, at least reduces life to a battle between the sexes. To say that it is important to identify with your own sex in the job market implies that it is a game be­tween men and women. Why is it not more important to identify with those people ­male or female -who pursue the same in­terests and goals, or who hold the same values? 
Secondly, to describe men as merely a dis­traction which inhibits communication be­tween females is very chauvinistic. Are the women at Saint Mary's aware ofthe status of males and Notre Dame men in particular as anything more than sex objects and poten­tial dates? 
You define the world as a habitat for men and women, each existing separately. Or maybe this is how you wish it would be, or how it would function the most effectively, according to your values._ The danger in your vision is that once women enter any type of co-ed environment, which they inevitably will, then will never be able to relate to men in any other way; they have not had the chance at college to develop social skills and human values which integrate the sexes. 
I am a women who chose to attend Notre 
Dame. I do not argue your contention that 
communication between women at Saint 
Mary's is better than at Notre Dame -you 
are right. But I disagree with the idea that 
isolating men from our environment is the 
way to solve the problem. 
My vision of humanity includes com­munication between all people on all levels, and the closer to this ideal we can come, the better. Most of my best friends happen to be men, so without them, my life and college career would be a lot less rich. I choose to live in a world ofboth men and women, and I wouldn't trade that experience for anything on earth. 
• ! 

Why the world needs a nuclear war 
Today, more than ever, Americans are con­cerned with the prospect of a nuclear war. While differing political parties have sug­gested various ways to prevent full-scale megaton destruction, nobody seems to have realized the manifold advantages which an atomic free-for-all might email., 


Keith Picher 
Short of Profundity 
Alarmists and practical scientists have long frightened us with predictions of massive overpopulation. In a world where people reproduce geometrically, but food only arith­metically, demand will continue to outgrow supply. The masses seem condemned to starvation in the near future. 
But alas, you who starve in the Third World, rest assured. Nuclear war will put an abrupt end to starvation. Earth's inhabitants will be drastically reduced. The world will be teeming with food a bit on the radioactive side,but fear not. Bananas contain radioactive potassium and we never think twice about eating them. 
An exchange would also end the threat of future nuclear war, for the time being anyhow. Years would pass before weapons' grade material, delivery systems, and even the basic manufacturing devices could be reintroduced. After all, when you've seen one nuclear war you've seen them all. Nobody would want to put up with the inconvenience ofanother deadly game. 
Those of you who are economists could certainly understand the advantages of an atomic atrocity. Though the economy might show temporary signs of recession, an even­tual bottomming-out would inevitably occur. Wasted government spending would become a thing of the past as soon as Washington D.C. and all the state capitals were vaporized. In­dustry would be given a chance to revitalize just as Japan and Germany did after World War II. Growth would necessarily return, wiping out years of unproductive stagflation. Once again our country would know prosperity! 
The beach-dweller would also benefit. 
Many scientists believe that tanning may be 
much easier after a few mushroom clouds hit 
the ozone layer. Instead ofspending hours un­
der the stifling hot sun, a few nano-seconds 
would be sufficient. Though skin cancer 
would also become more prevalent, it would 
be a small price to pay for a more cosmetically attractive America. 
Imagine the energy savings! Stoves and ovens would become obsolete; a few minutes in the out-of-doors would broil even the thick­est steaks. The transportation sector would no longer use so much ofour available fuel, since there wouldn't be a single place worth visit­ing The nuclear power industry could also expand to cheaply provide gigawatts of electriciLy. No longer would people fear the messiness of a meltdown in an environment already toxic with alpha, beta, and gamma par­ticles. If only our past presidents had known that the solution to our energy dilemma was so simple. Oh well, hindsight is 20/20. 
If this sounds like the kind of world you'd like to see in the near future, please consider membership in a movement which has been going on for years in the United States, the Soviet Union, France, and other places. 





P.O. BoxQ 
Apersonal commitment to pacifism 
DearEditor, 
Pacifism is an ideal that I have always longed to embrace. Part ofmy desire evolves from a genuine respect for the ideal of non­violence, another part grows out ofa longing for commitment to a noble and just cause, and yet another from the inherent fear of death on some foreign battlefield. Indeed, ifl must die an early death, I would much rather die working for peace then for aggression. 
But ifI am to be morally and intellectually honest, I must dismiss the personal motive of self-preservation as a major factor in my decision. Likewise, I must also dismiss the desire for a noble and just cause, for great evil is often done by basically good people following noble and just causes to their logi­cal extremes. No, if I am going to accept any 
reason for non-violence, it will have to be 
out of a genuine belief that it is through the 
practice of this ideal that I can do the 
greatest good. 
As you may have already discerned, I am 
equating pacifism with absolute non­
violence -for this is the only form of 
pacifism that I have been unable to accept. I 
believe that most sins are sins ofommission; 
that it is often what we fail to do that most 

harms our neighbor. Yet would this not also apply to the extreme case in which the only way to save my family is to kill an attacking madman? Given that violence, even to death, was the only way to save the seven members of my family, would not my failure to com­mit this act ofviolence constitute a great sin of ommission? Moving the argument to the global level, I can see why we should be against most wars just as we should be against most acts of violence. But again, there is the extreme case of a madman leading a group of noble and just followers. Would not our absence from World War II, in spite of the crimes we did commit, have constituted a greater sin than did our 
presence? 

There are many reasons for becoming a pacifist, but only three carry conviction. The firSt is that God has given everyone a per­sonal commission ofnon-violence; and since I am not God I am not fit to criticize. The second reason is to serve as an example to a world gone mad with violence. For such people, non-violence may not be intrinsical­
ly the best in all situations, but in the broader 
picture, it is hoped that their extreme ex­
ample of non-violence will help to wake us up to the excess ofour own abuse. Finally, it is often argued that in the light of nuclear weapons and the potential annihilation of the human race, there is no sane choice other than pacifism. 
For the first argument I have already dis­qualified myself as a critic, but I would like to make two observations. One, that such an individual conviction is hearsay evidence to the rest ofus; and two, that such a revelation, even if authentic, might only be meant for the individual. As for the second argument, I comment that while I respect and admire the goals and conviction of one who truly sets such an example, the argument a.S presented does not apply against all violence 
in all situations for all people. Moreover, I might still hold such a person responsible for failing to protect my family. And finally, the third rationale is more ofa reason against a major nuclear war than against violence or 
war in general. Although I do find some forms of this argument more convincing, I have yet to find any form conclusive. 
Francis Degnin 
M.A. Candidate 


The Obrerver is an independent newspaper pubhshed by the students of the University of Notre Dame .lu Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not neces~arily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news i~ report­ed as accurately and a.s objettivdy as possible. Editorials represent the opm10n of ·a ma1onty of the Ed1torial Board. Co.nmentaries. opinions and letters are the v1ews of their authors. Column spa.<e is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of vary•ng opinwns on campu~. through lrtters, i> eowunged. 
p_()_Box Q, Notre Dame, IN '16556 (ll9) l59-5505 
Editorial Board 
Ftfilor in-<.bief ............Michad Monk .Htlllll,t:ing l:tlilor.. .Hyan Vcr lkrknH>t·~ F.n•oilil•e .Veu•., hlitor. . ..... Kdli Him SMC Executive Editor ....... .:\targarel Fmmoe SfJtJrls Ftlitor.. Chri~ Nenlle~ l:tlitoria/s Ftlitor .. Paul Mc<o~nn Fetllures l:tlitor Tari 1\nm n /'hot" l:tlitor .. .HadKI I\lollill 
Department Managers 

IJusiness Jftmager ... ....... .Tony Aiello Cunlro/ler .. . .......................... I'ric St·hulz .·ldi•ertisins ,\lmwger.. ..Chris Owen l'rududion Jftmager ................. Maura Murphy Circu/atiml Mtlna.~er .. . ..... Hay lnglin .\)•stems .\tanager.. . ..... 1\run· ( >aklt-y 
fo~nded November _i, 1966 

r 




SportS Bri~b 
Tuesday, September 14, 1982 -page 8 
::~B~}~.T.~b;e~O~b~S:(~~~e~ra:n~d~T.;b:e~~As:so:c:l~a~t:e:d~P~r:e:s:sT=::::::~::~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Baseballroundup 

Notre Da.tD:e basketball greats Adrian Dantley, Kelly Tripucka and Austin Carr, and 15 other former Notr•e Dame players will be returning to the ACC this Saturday to participate in the Logan Center Benefit Basketball Game. The game is being or­ganized by Notre Dame assistant basketball coaches Gary Brokaw andJohn Shumate, both former Irish All-Americans who will play in the game. Tip-off is set for 1 p.m. on Saturday, just seven hours before Notre Dame opens its 1982 football season against Michigan at Notre Dame Stadium. Tickets are S6 in the lower arena and S4 for upper arena. Tickets are selling fast at Gate 10 of the ACC. -The Observer 
New deadlines have been announced by the office of Non-Varsity Athletics. Deadlines for grad football, the golfteam tour­ney, men's interhall soccer, outdoor volleyball, and co-ree water polo are today. Deadline for entry in the interhall cross-country meet for men and women is September 21. -The Observer 
Coach Sharon Petro'sNotre Dame women's tennis team will play host to Wheaton College this afternoon in its 1982 home opener at the Courtney Tennis Center. The match begins at 
3:30. The Irish, 1-1 after ·splitting a pair of matches over the weekend, today are beginning a five-game homestand, their longest ofthe season.-The Observer 
ND track and field team will hold an organizational meeting tomorrow at 3:45 p.m. in the ACC Auditorium. Any men interested in participating in either the winter or spring seasons should attend. -The Observer 
ND-SMC Cycle Club is having an organizational meeting tonight at _6:30 in the Lafortune Ballroom. Officers will be elected at this time. -The Observer 
Larry Moriarty and Blair Kiel will be the guests tonight at 10 on WSND's (AM-64) Speaking ofSports. Lis­teners may talk with the guests by calling 239-6400 or 239-7425. ­The Observer 


Dauer leads Orioles over Yankees 
BALTIMORE (AP)-Rich Dauer's second sacrifice fly snapped a 6-6 tie and lifted Baltimore to an 8-7 victory over the New York Yankees last night. 
Dauer's RBI highlighted a three­run rally in the seventh inning that overcame a 6-5 New York lead. Pinch-hitter Dan Ford got the Orioles started with a one-out triple and scored on Cal RipkenJr.'s single. Gary Roenicke doubled and Rick Dempsey was walked to load the bases. 
Dauer then lofted a fly to right, 
scoring Ripken, before pinch-hitter 
Benny Ayala singled to drive in 
Roenicke. 
Tigers 4 Brewers 3 
DETROIT (AP) -Lance Parrish's two-run homer in the bottom of the 11th inning powered the Detroit Tigers to a 4-3 come-from-behind victory over the Milwaukee Brewers last night. 
•ne loss cut the Brewers' lead to two games over the Baltimore Orioles in the American League East 
.race. ·-Larry Herndon led off with a walk against Brewers reliever Dwight Bernard before Milwaukee brought on Pete Ladd, 1-3, who surrendered Parrish's 28th homer, a blow that landed in the lower left field seats. Aurelio Lopez, who came on ighth i~ relief of starter Jerry Adjdur, ptcked up the victory to even his record at 2-2. 

Astros 5 Braves'3 
ATLANTA (AP) -Harry Spil­
man's two-run triple highlighted a 
three-run, eighth-inning rally as the 
Houston Astros came back to beat 
the Atlanta Braves 5-3 last night and 
give right-hander Joe Niekro a one­
game lead over brother Phil in their 
career matchups. 
Trailing 3-2, Dickie Thon and Ray 
Knight singled to start the eighth. 
Spilman then sent a drive into the 
left-field corner and later scored an 
insurance run on Jose Cruz's 
sacrifice fly. 
Twins 2 Rangers 0 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -AI Wil­
liams and Ron Davis combined to 
pitch a shutout and Tom Brunansky 
homered last night as the Minnesota 
Twins defeated the_Texas Rangers 2­
0. 
Williams, 8-7, allowed five hits in­7 1-3 innings before giving way to Davis, who finished up for his 19th save. Williams struck out three and walked two in piking up his fifth vic­tory in a row, the longest winning streak by a Minnesota pitcher this 
season. 
Cubs 7 Pirates 3 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Jody Davis and Jay Johnstone. each slammed two-run homers to back the comined six-hit pitching of Allen Ripley and Willie Hernandez_ as the Chicago Cubs defeated the Pitts­burgh Pirates 7-3last night. 
Ripley, 5-7, gave up five hits in the .irst seven innings, including a two­run homer to Dale Berra. Hernandez shut the Pirates down over the final two innings to record his lOth save. 
With the Cubs leading 1-0 in the second,Johnstone hit his first oftwo doubles with one out, and Davis lined his 11th homer over the left field wall. 
The Pirates closed to 3-2 in the bottom of the inning when Tony Pena singled and Berra followed with his lOth homer. 


APTop20 
The Top Twenty college football teams in The As­
socrated Press poll, with hrst-place votes in paren­
theses, thrs season's records and total pornts. Points 
based on 20-19-18-17 etc. • 
1 Washrngton (28) 1·0-0 1.132 2. Prtt(16) 1-0-0 1,078 3. Nebraska (10) 1-Q-0 t,073 4. Alabama (6) 1-Q-0 1,021 5. Florida 2-Q-0 886 6. Southern Melhodrst 1-Q-0 872 7. Georgia 2-0-0 846 8. Penn State 2-Q-0 769 9. Arkansas 1-0-0 693 10. Mrchigan 1-0-0 667 t 1. North Carolina 0-1-0 572 
12. Ohio State 1-0-0 
426 13. Arizona State 2-0-0 404 
14. UCLA 
1-0-0 358 15. Mrami 1-1-0 
332 
16. Clemson 0-1-0 29t 
17 West Virginia 1-0-0 
279 
18. Texas 
0-0-0 243 19. Southern California 0-1-0 185 20. Notre Dame 0-IHI 118 
The Observer wtll accept class1fieds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m However, classifieds to appear 1n the next issue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to insertion. All class1fieds must be prepaid, 
e1ther in person or through the mail. ·



Classifieds 
NOTICES 
IMPROVE YOUR GRADES! Research catalog-306 pages-10,278 topics-Rush $1.00 to Box 25097C. Los Angeles. 90025. (213) 477-8226. 
IS YOUR HAIR GETTING IN THE WAY OF YOUR STUDIES?? CALL MICHOLE FOR A HAIRCUT TODAY! ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND $6 FOR GIRLS BEST TO CALL AFTER 3 AT 7850 
WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM $2995 64K Microcomputer,letter quality prin< C: word processing software. CP/M. Ba·•­Call 277-7720 
CAR PROBLEMS?? I AM A QUALIFIED MECHANIC WITH LOTS OF EX­P!OAIENCE AND LOWER RATES THAN ANY GARAGE!! CALL TODAY FOR A FREE ESTIMATE JOHN AT 1852 
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALISTS orgam~~: tional meeting tonight at 7:30 124 Hayes/Healey 

LOST/FOUND 

FOUND-One calculator. Call Gary 1223. 

$100 cash reward offered for return of su1tcase. Large, Lark suitcase With girl's clothing lost on August 27 probably near Main Circle bus shelter. Please call 255­3068 lost: Gold cross on gold charn. If found. call Don 288-3051 

·FOR RENT 

Furnished home. 2 blocks lrom campus. Also country house. tO mrns. from NO. Call277-3604 or 288-0955. 
WANTED 
DO YOU WANT TO MAKE SOME SERIOUS BUX?! IF YOU HAVE ANY TWO MICHIGAN TIX. OR 2 PENN STATE GA'S. OR 2 MIAMI GA'S, CALL US UP IMMEDIATELY IF NOT SOONER! WE'Ll DO ALMOST ANYTHING. SO DIAL 2948 AND ASK FOR CINDY OR KATIE. 
NEEDED: 2 STUDENT TICKETS FOR SEPT. 25 PURDUE GAME CALL ANNE 4057 or CARRIE 4167 
NEEDED 5 G.A:S FOR OCT. 9 MIAMI GAME Will NEGOTIATE COST CALL MAUREEN 5506 OR ANNE 4057 
THE GANGS ALL HERE! -or ~i ~~~~~ they·re gonna be here tor Michigan weekend! Need 10-13 Mich. tix, GA or STU. Have some Miami GA's tor trade call: Mike 4388 or Steve 185 7 · 
NEED MALE STUDENT TO SHARE 6­AOOM HOUSE. CALL233-4425. 
FOR SALE 
1977 MGB. yellow. Good condrtron. Call 291-6713 after 5. Weekends anytime. 
WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM. $2995. 64K Microcomputer. letter quality prrnter. word processing software. CP/M, Basrc. Call277-7720. 
FOR SALE: 2 MICH GA TIX. CALL1-314­862-5748 

TICKETS 

IF YOU MISSED OUR AS IN THE WANTED SECTION, IT SAYS WE'RE TWO GIRLS WHO WOULD DO ALMOST ANYTHING FOR ANY OR All OF THE FOLLOWING; 2 MICH STU OR GA, 2 PENN ST GA, 2 MIAMI GA. CALL UP KATIE OR CINDY AT 2948 
RICH FRIENDS NEED MICH GA'S. NAME YOUR PRICE!I CALL STEVE 1553. 
NEED 4 MICH AND 2 PURDUE GA'S ­Will PAY TOP DOLLAR! KEVIN 1770 
I NEED 2 OR 3 MICH TIX. CALL JASPER AT 277-3276. 
Help! Mom & Dad are comrng tor therr 1st game rn 4 years• I'll buy or trade fort or 2 student or GA MICHIGAN trx. Please call Jrm at 3211 
$$$ NEED DESPEAATEL Y 3 TIX TO ANY HOME FOOTBALL GAME. Will PAY MEGA BUCKS. CALL MAURA AT 4594 
MICH! NEED 2 PAIR GAS-HELP! CALL KEVIN at t 580 
MIKE IS WILLING TO PAY $60 PER G. A MICHIGAN TICKET. CALL 1589 
Wealthy student desperately needs MICH student tix. Call Dan 6863 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICH GAME. CALL NANCY AT 1273 
Need t Mich. GA or Student trc -Doug 6166 
Desperately need two GA's now for Miamr game Brg Bucks. Call Joe t.469 
Need Mrch. student & Purdue GA's 289­7640 
Will PAY $35 FOR MICH STU TICK JOHN 8172 
Will trade 2-4 Mich. GAs tor 2-4 Pitt GAs Ca11Al3543 
. . . . . . . . . . . . ..'. . .. . Desperately need 2 PURDUE GA's Parents want to see the Irish Please help Call277-7415. 
NEED 2 GA OR STUDENT TIX FOR PURDUE GAME!I CALL MARTHA 3727 
NEED TICKETS: I need 1 michrgan stu­dent tix, three purdue GA's. Please call BRIAN at 1064.$$$$$$$ 
HELP! I NEED 4 TIX FOR THE MIAMI GAME SO MY DAD'S DRUNKEN BUDDIES CAN JOIN IN THE FUN WITH HIM. CALL DAN 4603. NAME YOUR PRICE 
•········· ...... ·············· NEED ONE MIAMI GA TICKET. CALL HAMIL AT 1527 ......................... .... . . .......... 
Need 2 tix for Purdue. Call Rene at 284­5458. Thanks. 
Dad wani~ i~ ~~~ ;;;~ pi~y ;n th~ b~~dl Need 2 GA's to Arizona, Penn or Purdue. Call Clarre 6841 
WANTED: Tix tor Miami game on Oct 9. Need at least 3. Name price and call Ger· ry at 277-3067. 
WILL TRADE 2 MICH GAs FOR 4 GAs TO ANY OTHER HOME GAME CAll x3669 
DESPEAATELY NEED 5 (32) TIX FOR MIAMI GAME. CALL COLLECT (3t2) 961-0423. . 
Destined for elimination 1f I don·t come up wrth 1 student or GA licke t tor Mrch. game. Call Kevin at 1441 
NEED FOUR MICHIGAN GA TICKETS CALL Pat: 277-1836! 
ATTENTION Need trckets to Mrchrgan call Lou at 8760 or 8773 
HAVE2MICHGA'S. WILL TRADE FOR2 
PENN STATE.MIAMI,OA PURDUE 
GA,S CASH. CALL JOHN 1188. 
.I.. 
Need 2 PURDUE GA'S lor parents. Call 
Leslie 288-1734 (best late) 
Need Purdue GAs or student tix. Call Bud at 255-5348 
NEED 2 MICHIGAN GAS. CALL RICK AT 8652 
One Michrgan ticket for sale Haq 239 7139 
NEED ONE STUDENT OR GA TICKET TO MICHIGAN BIG BUCKS. CALL SCOTT AT 8637. 
Need 1 Purdue Ticket! Call Dan al1744. 
DESPERATE! NEED 2 GAs FOR MIAMI. WILL PAY! CALL SUSAN 6983 
HELP! Dad desperately needs GAs lor Anzona; please save me tram hav1ng to live rn South Bend year-round. Need 4 GAs at any cost. Call Rrck at 2921. 


. . . . . .... . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . ... . . . . .. . ............ . . . .. . Need Many MICHIGAN GA TIX Please call Tom at 1171 
~~~2i>~~d~GA;~i>i.i:AsEmtc~il 
John Hlgglna 81 287-4188 (nlghta) or 231H323 and LEAVE A MESSAGEII 
WANTED: 5 TIX FOR MICHIGAN GAME. Student or GA. Please call Eileen at 277­1709 $$$$ 
needed 1 G. a or student ttcket lor miami game Will pay Big Bucks.call Tom at 3160. 
stud season fb tic for sale. best offer at 1420 
Sale me your Mich. tixs. Call Dave 3673. 
FOR SALE: 1 MICH STUD. TICKET! USAx7892 
2 GA MICH TIX 2132~1 734 ONLY AFTER 
6PM 

WANTED DESPERATELY--I PURDUE STUD OR GA. PLEASE CALL Wlll282­1026 
NEED 1 PURDUE GA Will PAY BIG BUCKS CALL KEVIN AT t 996 
Italian relatrves need Purdue trckets BAD 
Super mega-bucks. GA or student. Call 
Chris at 3460 

. . . . .. . .. . . . .. ...... . . .. . . . . .. . ... . . . . . . .. . . . . ..:. . ... 
HELP! U. DAYTON SENIORS HAVE 
VOWED TO NUKE THE GOLDEN DOME 
IF UNABLE TO ATTEND MICH. GAME. 
NEED 2 TICKETS TO AVOID MAJOR 
CATASTROPHE JULIE 3725 
WILL TRADE MY 2 PURDUE STUDENT TICKETS FOR 1 MICH TICKET CALL MIKE AT t215 
NEED MICHIGAN STUDENT TIX. GREG 7289 
NEED TWO MIAMI GA'S 2255 GREG 
HELP' I NEED 1 OR 2 PURDUE GA'S! CALL JILL 284-5149 
MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS AVAILABLE PHONE 2334051 7-9PM THAU MSU ALUMNI CLUB. 
FOR SALE-: 2 Purdue tr~ket~ Call D~ve 3673. 
ME TOOIII Lrke everyone else, I need Mtchrgan lrckets for my parents PleeM call Mrke at 272-5124. 
wanted lo trade: 2 mrch GA tix for 2 Purdue GA trx call Tom 256-5224 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 MICHIGAN TICKETS!! PLEASE CALL ANN AT 800t!l 
NEED 2 GA'S -l~r MIAMI game ('HILL PAY TOP $) CALL USA x2244 Help, please 
wANTED 2GA ~FOR THE ND~MtAMt 
GAME. CALL JEFF at 1165. 
i-i~~;; ·i · Ti~k~i s~~ ·29 ~; ·i;;,~ ~~;;~;~ ·;~; 
Michrgan Call lisa x8527 
Need one parr oi G.A-:s ;~;it;~ Michig~n game. Immodest remuneration STOP will be provided. Call Dan at 8736 A.S.A.P. 
NEED 2 PURDUE GAs or STUD. TIX. BEST FRIEND & SISTER WANT TO SEE 
. N.D. BEAT PURDUE. CALL LORIE 7895. 
FOR SALE-1 MICH STUDENT TICKET CALL BOB AT 288-8402 
Fofi si.Lii 2MICH e>:..: ~ ~~~~ :i~;;~ 843i · · 
.................................................... PLEASE HELP!I! I NEED t PURDUE GA $$$$CALL MARK 8332 
FORSALE : 2 GA TICKETS FOR MICHI­GAN GAME CALL LISA, 277-3196 AND MAKE OFFER 
PERSONALS 

HI KAREN! HI MIKEl HOW'S IT GOIN'? 
THE ARM'S FINE, PLEASE SEND 
MONEY AND SHOT GLASSES. 
AQALUM 

MOLARITY UVES/1 
Want to succeed i~ ih'~~i~~~-m?wa~i to be rich? Want to be successful? For more 1nfo, write to: JOE CAMPBELL AS­SOCIATES, 26 Drivers lane. Laurel Sprrngs, NJ 08021 Sales reps. wanted. 
Rem~;,ber way back when wh~~ eve;: day rn the pages of the Observer there 
~;~ ~~::;,a~ ~l;;f ~~l:dc~~~~r~Zs~~ 
Dron, Mrtch, Cheryl, Brenda. Alphre and Morrrson Schwartzer? II you do, then buy MOLARITY: NO OUTLET. the thrrd book of Molarity cartoons 
If you don't then buy all three books and 
study up on that stuff 
MOLARITY: NO OUTLET .Almost funny 
················•·· 

Noble Aoman·s IS now tak1ng applications for part-trme positrons. Work schedule can be adjusted to your class schedule Day and nrght posrtrons open. Warters. wartresses must be 21. Apply rn person 
AN AUTOGRAPH PARTYIII with Mrchael Molinelli. author of MOLARITY: NO OUTLET 
Thursday. Sept. t 6 
3p.m. 
Basement of LaFortune Mrchael's mother wrll be there. too 
To the Grrls rn the BARN: Thanks for a GREAT trme Sal. nrghl 
Didn't we tell you? Didn~ we tell you? It 
had to happen. Shocked that Molinelli left 
The Observer, Gary Trudeau qurts 
drawing Doonebury in disgust. He knowa 
that wthout Molarity appearrng above 
Doonesbury, it's not worth even trying to 
be funny. 
He thought Molarity was gone lorever What he didn't know was that Molarity is 
back!! 
MOLARITY: NO OUTLET 
The third and final Molarity book is hot off the presses with more cartoons than ever before strll at the low,/ow,LOW price of $2.95. Rush out righl now and buy one from a bookstore near you!! 
NO WAITII Due to unprecedented demand by some jerks who have refused to buy a book without an autograph. Buy 
lhe Book Press is holding 
AN AUTOGRAPH PARTY Yes. yes, yes Michael Molinelli will be back srgnrng books on Thursday Sept. 16 in the baaament of Lafortune at p.m. There·s no excuse anymore!!! Brought to you by Buy the Book Press. We wrote the book on Chapter 11 . 
The Back-Rub Seton will be oP.,Ing soonI Girla you know who you are 
~~~~~~--~~i~i~~i~o~v~~-8~bb~~j~~~­
save thrs number' 
L. 
H<tve a good day today, Sept. 14th 
BEWAREI 
BEWAREI 
BEWAREI 
Mo Kelly. that wild wench from P-W. rs on the loose. She was last seen on Thursday nrght mauhng and assaulting an Alumnr Hall A A., leavrng him in a pool of blood. She rs armed and extremely dan­gerous lock all doors! Do not. I repeat. do not venture outdoors or else you·u be 
takrng your life rn your hands. Be forewarned-th1s g1rl1s an anlmallll 
Aii~~;~~-~-:--~~·-~·;~~~;~·~;·~~~~i··;;;;~i;~g··;~; 
the MINI SKIRT CLUB wrll be held on Frrday, Sept 17th at 9:30pm rn room 224 Cavanaugh All are welcome Please wear your m1n1 sk1rt 
Attentron: another orgamzatronal meetrng wrll be held rn room 224 Cavanaugh on Frrday. Sept 17th at 9:30. Thrs rs for the FRIDAY NIGHT STUDY BREAK CLUB Be there No pens or books! 
SENIORS !!! SOPHOMORES !!! ·Rrverboat Arde" Frrday Evenrng Trxs on sale Wed & Thur, La Fortune, t 1:30 to 1:30& 7-8 
dear a-17. rs there really anythrng worse than a hmp flake? love. mary. rhoda. & brenda p.s semper ub1 sub ub1, even 1f 1ts 
mesh. 
NOT EVEN NICE 
Maureen­How's tncks? Uoydie 

The Observer 
Winning streak ends 
Pittsburghoutguns CoW"boys 
IRVING. Texa~(AP)-Pittsburgh tight end Billie joe DuPree. Stallworth defeated Thurman on a quarterback Terry Bradshaw, drill­Bradshaw's other touchdown pass -oi8-yard pass from Bradshaw. then ing passes td widt: receivers john came in the second period. a 7-yard turned him around again to score on Stallworth and jim Smith, dazed Dal­strike to Smith to give Pittsburgh a an 8-yard toss. 
Ia.' with three touchdown strike~ as 
temporary 13-7 lead. Woods, holding for the kick, the Steders defeated tht: rallying 
Wh1te completed touchdown fumbled a center snap. and Ander­
pa.o;se!> of 'l yard~ to Drew Pearson ·son never got a chance to try the t: ­and 12 yards to Doug Cosbie in the tra point.

Cowboys .~6-LS rn rbc :'1/ational 
Football League's tir~t :\londay night game of the :-.eason. 
first half. Dallas. inspired by a bizarre play Dallas· NFI. record ot I~ con­It was the Steelers' fifth con­that saw White fall down. get up and secutive victory over the Cowboys, throw a 30-yard pas~ LO tight end
secutive opening\ icwrit:s was shat­tt:red along with the CoVI. boys' mark and the triumph gave them a IZ-1 0 Cosbie. charged back to go ahead ..,_ of never having 1oM in Texas 
all-time sene~ lead. 6. 

Stallium with Danny White ;u, start­Bradshaw completed I~ of ZH A costly third-down. roughing­ing quarterback in IH games. pa.o;ses for 246 yards, and Stallworth the-passer penalty on john Pittsburgh exploded for I 7 points gathered in seven of them for 157 Goodman put the Cowboys in posi· 
in the third quarter to overcome a yards. After White's touchdown pass tion for the payoff. White's '!-yard 1-l-13 Jeticit as the Steelers to DuPree that narrowed the score pass to Pearson. capitalized on a blocked punt and to 33-28 with 5:4' to play, Bradshaw The Steelers made it 13-7 early in drove the Steelers to the Dallas 2-oi,
two interceptions. Rookie Gary An­the second quarter as Stallworth mixing a 22-yard completion to
derson, obtained from Buffalo last hoodwinked his man again on a 22­
Greg Hawthorne with size.able gains 

week, kicked a 40-yard field goal yard completion to the Dallas 21. with 1:02left to lock up the victory. by running back Franco Harris. Three plays later. Bradshaw hit The Steelers had to overcome a Then, Anderson calmlv kicked the Smith for the touchdown from 7 
four-touchdown pass blitz by White, yards away.
game clincher from 40 yards out. including two scoring strikes in the Dallas jumped ahead 14-13 on an
White passed for more than 300 yards but suffered the two damaging

final quarter. 80-yard drive featuring White and interceptions in what proved to be a
Rookie end Keith Willis blocked a Cosbie again. Cosbie caught a 13­Danny White punt to set up the go­fatal third quarter. yard pass on the drive and slipped Linebacker David Little's fumble into the open for a 12-yard scoring
ahead touchdown on Frank Pollard's 
recovery at the Steelers' 20 after pass from a scrambling White.

I -yard plunge. 
White and Tony Dorsett botched a Pittsburgh blew a chance to goAn interference call on corner­handoff stymied an early Dallas ahead in the final two seconds oftheback Dennis Thurman, who fouled half when Anderson's 35-yard field

drive, and Pittsburgh marched 80

Stallworth, put the Steelers just 
goal attempt was blocked by john
yards for the first touchdown to set

inches away from the Dalla.~ goal. . 
Dutton.
offthe wild scoring spree.

Interceptions by Rick Woods and 
Jack Ham put the Steelers in position for Bradshaw's second touchdown pa.~s to Smith, 1 5-yarder, and Ander­son's 26-yard field goal. 
Stallworth, who caught an 8-yard 
scoring pass in the first half, grabbed 
a 21-yard pass to make the field goal 
possible. 
Anderson also kicked a 43-yard field goal in the fourth quarter before Dallas rallied a.~ White floated a 45-yard touchdown pa.~s ·to Tony Hill and a 5-yard touchdown tlip to 

Wolverines prepare tor the Irish 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. (AP)-Mich­
igan Coach Bo Schembechler says 
he doesn't know quite what to ex­
pect from Notre Dame on Saturday 
night because the Fighting Irish have 
yet to play a game this season. 
Michigan got past Wis<':onsin 20-9 
in a Big Ten game last week -the 
season opener for both teams -and 
a weekend of watching game films 
has convinced Schembechler that 
the Wolverines have some promise. 
Lawrence Ricks, replacing 
graduated tailback Butch Woolfolk, 
gained 153 yards in 24 carries to 
draw high marks from the coach. 
Schembechler said tight end Craig 
Dunaway, center Tom Dixon, guard 
Stefan Humphries and tackle Rich 
Strenger also were outstanding on 
offense. 
"We'll have no trouble getting 
ready for Notre Dame," Schem­
Tuesday, September 14, 1982 -page 9 

,1 
.I.I 
I I I I I I -I i I I 
__ I 
I 
I 
.I 
-



bechler said. "I think we came out of the Wisconsin game healthy and I'll have some players back this week that didn't play last week, so all we have to do is keep on working." 
Having a game under its belt should be an advantage for Michi­gan, but against a team like Nmre Dame, the Michigan coach said, "you just never know." 
Rocco's Hair 
i.
'

• 
Styling 531 N. Michigan St.. 
Better grades require an investment. In time. In work. And in the tools you use. Hewlett-Packard offers a range of such tools: calculators and hand­held computers with a unique logic system that requires less time to get a more reliable answer. Invest in one that matches your needs. And watch your investment pay off. 
For the HP dealer nearest you, call TOLL FREE 800-547-3400. In Oregon, Alaska and Hawaii call503-758-1010. For additional product informa­tion write Hewlett-Packard, Dept. 83, Corvallis, OR 97330. 
HP-UC Advanced Programmable Scientific­$100.00* 
HP-UC Advanced Financial Programmable with Special Functions-$150.00* 

HP-41C Handheld Computer-$250.00* 
HP-41CV Handheld Computer with 5X Memory of HP-41C-$325.00* 
NEW. HP-15C Advanced Programmable Scientific with Matrix Functions-$135.00* 
NEW. HP-16C Programmable Calculator for Digital Electronics and Computer Science­
$150.00* 

~ Su~t·~tt.·d rt·t~ul pric~ t•xcluJmg .Jpplicablt· ~t.Jtt• •.mJ loc.:tl tJXl'~­Contint·nt~tl L!.?.A., Alt1~L1 & Ho.l\\'.Jii. 
When Performance Must Be Measured By Results. 
3012211 

South Bend 
FJ/o-HEWLETT 
... . ~ . ' . 

. .... ~ . ~ . '' '. . ' . , ,. . ' ~~PACKARD
i

Phone 233-4957 
-~:· 

Tuesday, September 14, 1982-page 10
The Observer 
r
' 
r 
t 
' 
Four varsity sports 



SMCcoaching staff ~~ges 
By MARY SIEGER coaching high school tennis and has Despite these crucial changes in Saint Mary•'s Sports Editor worked in a country club as a tennis the coaching staff, Saint Mary's At­professional. heletic Director Erin Murphy is This year the Saint Mary's coach­Scott Trees will take the position confident that the varsity teams will
will be collected: 
ing staff has undergone changes. All oi head swimming coach. Tret·s have the same or better seasons than of the fall varsity sports have either St'rved as the chairman of the last year. All of the new coaches are
Tues. 14th 11:30 -1:30 
new head or assistant coaches. The Broward County swimming coaches well qualified and enthusiastic about staff changes occured in varsity bas­which represented 22 high school coaching the varsity teams at SaintWed. 15th 11:30-1:30 ketball, volleyball, tennis, and swim­swimming coaches. Trees coached Mary's. ming. at the high school level for two 
"Of course there is a transition 

Michael Rouse is assuming the years. During this time. six members
Thurs 16th 11:30 -1:30; period that a team goes through
position of head basketball coach. ofhis squad were named high school 
from one coach to a new one, but I 

Rouse coached basketball in the All-Americans.
8:00 -9:00pm am confident that the new members 
,Buchanan Community Schools from 

Trees views this season as "very of the coaching staff to make that
1976-1982. In 1978, Rouse's team 

promising, and this season should be transition as smooth as possible,"
ND --Lafortune became the state champions. In ad­
better than previous years." commented Murphy.
dition to his experience coachingSffiC -Leffians Lobb high school teams, Rouse has coached in many collegiate basket­
NICKlES Notre Dame Senior Nite Sept.14  
S2.00 Pitchers  
6:00 till 10:00  

ball camps giving him experience coaching at the college leveL "I'm very excited about coaching 
...NCAA 
basketball at Saint Mary's, but it is difficult to predict what kind of season we're going to have. It all 

continuedfrom page 12 
depends upon who makes the squad this year,"says Rouse. 

things. He freely and openly admitted to censoring the paper. It was his university, after all, and the paper fell under his jurisdiction. SoJohn Klebba, the former player Frank felt, appearantly, that he could do any damn thing he pleased.
coach for the Notre Dame men's The paper didn't matter, and neither, it seems, did the athletes whoclub volleyball team is assumming were having academic trouble. The only important thing was foot­the position of assistant coach for ball.

the Saint Mary's volleyball team. Klebba played on the varsity vol­leyball team at Drake University and What a shining example of academic freedom, the NCAA must is an experienced collegiate vol­have thought. What a staunch defender ofConstitutional rights. Why leyball official. don't we put him on a commercial and let him tell the people how 
"John has a very good knowledge much more concerned with academics than with athletics the NCAA of many aspects of the game and he really is. has contributed much to the program in the short time he has 
You know, when you think about it, the NCAA probably could notbeen here."says Volleyball Head have come up with a more represcntativ~ spokesman. Dr. Frank real­Coach, Erin Murphy. 
ly stands for that which most NCAA members stand.
John Killen, the newest addition to the staff will be serving as Tennis 

It's not corn root infestation research at Oklahoma, nor aerospace Coach. The position of Saint Mary's engineering advances at Stanford. It certainly isn't journalism educa­tennis coach is Killen's tirst ex­tion at Lincoln University. perience in collegiate coaching. 
"Coaching at Saint 'vlary's is an It's sports -first, last, and alwavs. interesting new experience, and we So, remember this little story the next time you see one of those should have a good season," states commericals during the game. Becau~ things arc not always as they Killen. Killen has spent 10 years seem. 

PRICES GOOD

YOU'RE WASTING 

LORD
THRUYOUR MONEY 

BUYING September 18 CALVERT 
Lord of the Canadians 

ANYWHERE ELSE! 


1.75 UTER

TAILCiATER'S SPECIALS 

:···················································~ 
RIUNITE

:HAffiffi'S cr~ 99£ I ..........

: f'6leCASE i 
:fROM THE LAND OF -tc 
• SKY -BLUE wAIERS 






~ ~$199
•

************************ **************************.. 11Qunitr' 
~ 750ML.

Beer Specials iC Quart Specials iC KegsiC iC 
Miller Lite case $6.99. Old Milwaukee $7.49 i( Budweiser $29.99 '1:ARLO ROSSI $8.99. Budweiser $8.99 iC Pabst $28.99
Michelob case 
$3.49 i( Miller $8.99 ~ Michelob $33.99
Coors 6-pak Old Style case $6.99 i( Miller Lite $8.99 • Generic $21.99 
Mickeys Malt case btl $7.49 iC Miller or Lite $29.99 

~~4~9

• 
BIG 
4 LITER 

r -------------------,-------------------------~ 
·--------------------------­
I 750ML 1.75ML I 
J· ROGET cr1 99 
I 
Jack Daniels $7.99 Kamchatka VODKA $7.99 I American Champagne 'II • Bacardi Rum $5.99 Calvert GIN $8.99 I (Spumonte, White, Pink Burgundy I Tanqueray Gin $8.99 Canadian Mist $10.99 I and Aim ante) I 7 Crown $5.99 Ushers SCOTCH $10.99 1 
·---------------------------------­
I Wild Turkev 86 $7.99 I FLAVORED BRANDY L------------------------------------------~ Apricot, Blackberry, or Cherry $5.99 


Ihe~r======================================= 
T0 d3:Xill:.==============T=u=·e=s=d=ay='=S=ep=t=e=m=b=e=r=1=4=,=19=8=2==p=ag=e=ll 
Doonesbury 

: Pf)ff1 PUff/: A /..ITT/£ AM I OOING {.{JWER. IT RI6HT, MISS tofAI&R.. 

Simon 


Nobody's Prefect 
The Daily Crossword 

©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 

LET :S T~DE HIM IN 
FDR SDMEON E (UTER ! 

Garry Trudeau 
I Ff&L. .. S&NSITIV&! NO, SliNSIT!ZClJ.I I GOOIJ! FeU POL.IT!CAUY IQ}lJE 


Campus 

•11 
:30 a.m. -Tri-Military Luncheon, Celebrat­ing 30th anniversary of the Air Force, Center for Continuing Education, Reserved 

•12:10 
p.m. Art Noontalk, "Hellenic Sculpture: Myth & Enigma", Professor Roben Leader, Notre Dame, Annenberg Auditorium. 

•3:30 
p.m. -Tennis, Notre Dame Women vs. Wheaton College, Courtney Courts. 

•5 
p.m. -Volleyball, Notre Dame Women vs. Michigan, ACC. 

•6 
p.m. Relationship and Sexuality, Perspectives on Relationships, Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's College, Sponsored by Campus· Ministry, Health Services, Counseling and Career Develop­


ment Center. 
•7 
p.m.-Placement Meeting, For accountancy graduating students, CCE Auditorium. 

•7 
and 9:30 p.m. -Social Concerns FUm, "Soldier Girl", Engineering Auditorium, No charge. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Information Night and Lecture, Natural Family Planning, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium, Sponsored by Campus Ministry, and Natural Family Planning Program of St. joseph County. . 

•7:30 
p.m. -Meeting, Democratic Socialists Or­ganizational Meeting, Hayes Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by ND/SMC D.S.A. 

•9 
p.m. -Meeting, Right to Life Organizational Meeting, Lafortune Little Theatre. 

•10 
p.m. -Talk Show, Speaking of Spons, Blair Kiel and Larry Moriarity, WSND AM 64, Sponsored byWSNDAM. 


Jeb Cashin 
T.V. Tonight 
tuesday, Sept 14 
6p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  ,The MacNeiVLehrer Report  


6:30p.m.  ·16  MASH  
22  Family Feud  
28  Tic Tac Dough  
34  Straight Talk  
7p.m.  16  father Murphy  
22  Walter Cronk.ites Universe  
28  Happy Day~  
7:30p.m.  34 22  National Geographic CBS Special: Moonlight  
28  Laverne and Shirley  
8P.M.  16  Tuesday  Night  at  the  
"Murder in Texas" Part II  
28  Three's Company  
8:30p.m.  34 28  Mystery Too Close for Comfort  

Movies: 

9p.m. 22 CBS Reports: The Golden Leaf 28 Hart to Hart 34 American Dreamers 
!0:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Alice and McCloud 28 , ABC News Nightline 34 Captioned ABC News 
llp.m. 28 fantasy Island 
11:30 16 Late Night with David Letterman 
Social Concerns Film Seriesstarts 
The Social Concerns film series begins tonight . with the film Soldier Girl, showing at 7:00 and 9:30p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. Admis­sion is free. 
-
-
' 


We are trying to compile a complete listing of 
musicians on campus--if you wish to be included. call or write John Warnoch at : 
311 Keenan Hall x3319 

K.C. Ryan 
~.. Placer 
miner, once 57 Draft of a treaty 60 Jack Ford's victim 63 Lattice component 64 Put up, · 
in poker 65 Soap pn.nt 66 "God's 
Little-" 67 Quantrill's 
specialty 68 Cures 69 Swerve 
DOWN 1 Lacerates 2 Olive gemts 3 Notorious 
US lady 4 Blackmails 5 SiciliaJl 
volcano 6 Royal 
initials 7 Comp. pt. 8 Assists 9 University 
VIPs 10 Moss Hart 
opus 11 Tome 12 River in 
France 13 Country monogram 19 Released 

21 "Aman­
mouse?" 24 Called 25 Wakens 27 Fruit 28 Blood 
vessel: comb. form 30 Skirt insert 32 Mr. Garner, 
to Texans 33 Attempted 34 Pelt 36 Spread 
to dry 37 Princess 
irritant 40 Go 44 Interstices 46 Was Iippy 48 Football 
pos. 50 Indian ruler 52 Recesses in churches 53 Notquite shut 54 AICapp's hyena 
55 Piedmont · city 56 Entitle 58 Raison d'­59 Muscle 61 Extinct 
bird 62 Building addition 
! WHATDOESTHE i STUDENT UNION RECORD STORE !
• 

:cHEAPERPRJCES ... Saw24·32percentoftlistprices' HAVE FOR ME? :•• MOSTCURRENT SINGLES-S6.50 (compar<· at SR99list ). •• :CUT-OUTS ... S2.9Rto S5.9H : 
1 

:GREATSELECTION ... Springsteen. Fogelberg. Steviei'licb. : 
: Cristopher Cro". Moody Blues. Pat Benatar. : e journey. and many more! •
•e 
ALSO ... recorded and blank tape> a\·ailable. •• : CONVENIENC~.'. The Ni>SU Rcq>rd StOLl: is located on the : 

• 
Main floor ol LaFortune and is open-10-4 e : PLUS -orderedalbumstakeonlyoneweektoarrive! : 



Tuesday, September 14, 1982-page 12 
Women tonight 
Volleyball team hosts MSU 

By MIKE SULLIVAN have the best defense in the Mid­Sports Writer west. "Their team has a lot ofupperclas­The Irish women's volleyball smen who have played together. I 
-
team, coming off a respectable hear that they're real quick, but I 
showing this weekend in the Wol­don't know any specifics because I verine Invitational, gets ready to haven't seen them play. I do know face its toughest competition of the that a girl who graduated from the year when it hosts Michigan State team last year told me that we're tonight in the ACC Pit. going to have our hands full." 
The visiting Spartans, Big Ten "It'll be a tough one,"said Coach champions last year, bring with Sandy VanSiager. "They're more them a program that is well­skilled than what we were up against established and, possibly, the best in in the tournament. the area. "They've played in Division I al­
"Along with Northwestern and ready (the Irish just moved up to Purdue,"explains Assistant Coach Division I this year), so they should Dan Anderson, "Michigan State is dominate us. But, I'm just assuming 
one of the three toughest teams in 
all this, so it might not be true." the Midwest, if not the best. They do Anderson agrees that a famed 
Things are not always what they seetn to be 
Things are not always as they seem. 
AnY.one who watches college football on TV has, undoubtedly, seen the commercial in which Dr. James Frank, the president of the NCAA, goes to great lengths to tell how that organization stresses academics -often ahead ofathletics. You can't avoid seeing it, since it's on once during every game. That's part of the contract between the networks and the NCAA. 

It seems that Dr. Frank, who is also president ofLincoln University 
on Jefferson City, Mo., fired that school's football coach last year. That's fine. Even the president ofthe NCAA is allowed to fire his own football coach. But the coach maintains that he was not fired for the team's performance or lack ofit-on the field. 
And therein lies a tale. 
After he was dismissed, Coach Curt Gentry wrote a letter to the school's newspaper, The Clarion. In that letter, he claimed that he was fired because he cancelled three Monday afternoon practices. Gentry maintained that he'd cancelled the sessions so that a number of players who were having academic problems could have more time to study. Gentry had a real grasp ofthe importance ofsports in a collegiate setting, and he felt the students should know that the Uni­versity, and Dr. Frank in particular, appearantly didn't share in those beliefs. 
Now, at the time, Frank had just been elected President of the NCAA. It certainly wouldn't look good for the public to find out that he really didn't give two cents about whether or not the student­athletes were getting an education. Itwould be bad press ifeveryone learned that, with him, it was football first and foremost, education incidental. 
So, Frank did what any self-respectingcollege president would do. He didn't allow the paper to print the letter. 
But word got out anyway that Gentry had been fired because he was concerned about his players' grades. A brushfire was spreading and Frank had to move fast to control it. So, he forbid the paper ftom
I printingany news stories or editorials about the subject. 
I 
I Soon, there was an outrage among the students, and among many journalists as well. So Frank was forced to say something about the incident. 
There were two aspects of the whole story. It is fitting, given his 
I actions to that point, that Frank would not comment on the athletic aspect. He refused to discuss the firing of Gentry or any possible sucessor.
I 
But he was more than happy to comment on the academic side of 
I 
See NCAA, page 10 
' 
,I 
l J 
'r 
r 


Notre Dame upset is possible. 
"Volleyball is an emotional 
sport,"he explains. "If the crowd is 
in the game, the girls will play better. 
Anybody can beat anybody else on a 
,given day." 
The match, which is a best-of-five 
series of games, begins at 5:00 p.m. 
in the ACC Pit. 
The Irish did get a good warmup 
for the Michigan State game in Satur­
day's tournament at Ann Arbor. 
They reached the semifinals before 
they were eliminated by Wayne 
State. Overall, they finished the 
tournament with a 2-.3 record with victories over Lake Superior State and Grand Valley and losses to Mich­igan and Wayne State (twice ). 
"It was a good competitive ex­perience," said VanSlager, "to be up against teams with more skill this early in the season. It pointed out how the girls react in a competitive situation differently than in practice. It also helped some girls relieve their jitters. 
"It also pointed out some of our weaknesses and strengths. Defensively, we're not up to par to where we should be. We also need to play more offensively." 
"The girls didn't play steady,"said Anderson. "They were very cold. They started off warm but let the situation get them down. The pas­sing was bad, so they could not run their offense. 
"As far as talent goes, we had as much as the other teams. If we had played better, we would have won 
it." 
If the. Irish are to beat Michigan State, they are going to have to use the experience that they picked up over the weekend. 


University ofFloridafullback]amesjones (30) celebrates as the Seminoles defeated the Trojans ofSouthern California 17-9 last Saturday. Today the Associated Press released its Top Twenty Poll, · which put the Trojans 19th and Notre Dame 20th. See the entire 
poll in Sportsboard on page 8. ( AP Photo) 
Pass receivers 

Boulac itnpressed byprogress 
By TIM DOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Adjustment and inexperience. These are the hurdles that Coach Brian Boulac and the receiving corps faced at the beginning of workouts this fall. With only two ex­perienced receivers and a new of­fensive system, Coach Boulac realized he had his work cut out for him. 
With the season opener now less than a week away, Boulac notes, "We have been very pleased with the progress of the new system." 
Tony Hunter, a 6-5, 226 lbs. senior, will be starting at tight end. Hunter started last season as the wingback, but was later moved to split end and tight end. After a dis­appointing season, the Cincinnati, Ohio, native is looking to carry on the tradition of Notre Dame tight ends. 
"Hunter has the physical size and 
ability to be as good as Dave Casper 
and Ken MacAfee," Boulac says. 
"Hunter's success will depend on his health." 


At 5-9 and 167 lbs., Joe Howard does not appear to be an imposing figure. However, after an outstand­ing freshman year ( I 7 receptions for 463 yards while only starting the last five games), he has earned the respect of defenders. Howard, with his lightening-quick speed, will provide the deep threat at flanker. However, for the seson opener 
Howard has been moved to split end to replace the injured Mike Favorite. After being named to the 1981 Freshman All-America team byFoot­ball News, 1982 looks to be very promising for the Clinton, Md. soph­omore. 
Starting at the flanker slot will be Milt Jackson. Jackson, a 6-0, 170 lb. freshman, has been progressing ex­tremely well in his adjustment to college football. Coach Boulac notes, "Jackson is one freshman who will see a lot ofaction this season." 
Originally scheduled to start at split end for the Irish was junior. Mike Favorite. Favorite, 6-4 190 lbs., has been hampered by a leg injury for the past two weeks. The Park Forest South, Ill. native views the new system as "complicated, but not impossible." As the third offensive system in as many years, Favorite says "This is the best system I've seen and once we've mastered it, we will be able to move the ball a.Jot better." 
The Irish have several backups who have had fine preseasons and will be available for service. One of these is Van Pearcy. Pearcy, 6-2 186 lbs., was red-shirted last season due to a knee injury. "This is really the first time Van has worked out full time with the team and is progress­ing as expected," Boulac says. 
Bumper Schiro, a 6-0, 183 lbs. junior, and Chris Stone, a 6-1, 186 lbs. senior, are also expected to con­tribute this fall. 
The first test for the receivers and the rest of the Irish will be Saturday evening. The Irish will sendJackson, Howard, and Hunter to start the game and fly, criss-cross, and curl their way through the newly installed-offensive system. 



joe Howard 5-9, 167, So. 










