) 
, , ,IQ 's -page 8 

VOL. XVII, NO. 47 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1982
the: indcpcndcnl .~rudcnr nnv~fXIfX·r .,c:n ing noire dame and .~ainr man-~ 
Panel discusses perils of nuclear holocaust 
By MICHELE DIETZ scientists that "play with" nuclear Assistant.Veu•s Editor discoveries see them as "glitter more seductive than gold." 
Calling today's nuclear threat the He said that some scientists are biggest problem students will ever seduced by these technical pos­face in thdr entire lives, Father sihilitie~. Other~ see an essential role Theodore llesburgh, university of national defense as justif)·ing president. introduced a panel dis­nuclear advancement. But some feel cussion on the nuclear peril la~t they are guilty, as scientists. for night to a crowd that t1lled Stepan creating the possible future horror. Center. Following Mc<;linn was Theology 
"There is no human act that can professor John Yoder giving a match an evil in its moral obscenity, moral/theological view. Yoder ex­than an act that would reverse and plained that there must be almost to­destroy God's creation," Hesburgh tal absence of moral uncertainies told over 500 students gathered. before the use of nuclear warheads "Your generation is the tlrst genera­em be jus titled. tion out of thousands of generations A case for the justification of this that is facing not just the possibility, use has not been made, he con­but the probability of that act." tinued. Therefore. we must "fall 
Hesburgh, long a champion ofthe back on the prima facie respon­abolition of nuclear weapons, sibility not to destroy (the world)." stressed the urgency ofthe situation. "The means (of destroying the See BOMB, page 5 world) are loaded, triggered, tar­geted, and rctady to go," Hesburgh said. "The instrumentalities are al­
Could have been worse 
ready in place. All it requires is a human act to send them on their way," adding thar the U.S. is one of 


Professors agree GOP took a beating 
rhe targets. Jonathan Schell's recent best­By MIKE MAZZOLI amount to a substantial loss for the elections determined in large part avoidable, for the Office of selling book The Fate of the Earth StaffReporter Republican party. by voters' dissatisfaction with per­Management and Budget has was used as the basis of the discus­Huckfeldt added that in recent sonal economic conditions, such as projected a SI85 billion deficit for sion. The program, sponsored by the Ronald Reagan may dismiss his years it has become increasingly dif­unemployment and threats to Social fiscal year 1984, a figure probably College of Arts and Letters Sopho. party's losses in the recent general ficult to unseat any incumbent Security, rather than dissatisfaction low by comparison with the Con­more Core Course, was held to make elections and continue to claim a Congressman, a development with Reaganomics itself; both also gressional Budget Office estimate students aware ofthe nuclear peril. popular mandate for his programs, termed the "vanishing marginal" by foresee changes in national policy yet to be issued. Three Notre Dame t professors but, according to John Roos and political science. The number of resulting from the elections. Roos predicts that defense spend­joined Hesburgh on the panel. Each Robert Huckfeldt, professors of elections decided by margins offive Roos noted that the "midterm ing, the proposed tax cut, interest gave a different perspective from his government at Notre Dame, the percent or less have diminished; the correction" called for had begun as rates, and Social Security will be the various field which related to areas GOP took a considerable beating on trend instead shows most House early as last August, when dominant issues in the next few on which Schell focuses. Tuesday and thus may be forced to members winning re-election easily, Republican leaders deviated from months. "There's an increasing con­Professor William McGlinn of the alter its policies in the.; near future. and a five percent shift in the elec­supply-side ideology to force a large sensus that the defense budget must physics department gave a scientific The GOP maintained its majority torate, though statistically sig­tax increase on the President and in some way be reduced." he said. 
view. "Scientists, more than anyone, in the Senate, but lost 26 seats in the nificant, would thus be virtually passed a jobs-training bill against his The debate, Roos said, will center on are familiar with the ability to deal House of Representatives and six meaningless in Congressional races. initial objections. This midterm cor­with phenomena," McGlinn said. governorships to the Democrats. The loss of 26 seats in a period of rection, Roos added, is almost un-See DEFENSE, page 4 
Yet even they cannor tell the enor­The party in power traditionally suf­greater security for incumbents mity of the effects a nuclear war fers losses in the midterm elections, would thus indicate an important would cause. and Republican leaders had shift away from the GOP, said Huck­
Nuclear freeze proposal 
McGlinn outlined the situation: remarked earlier this week that the feldt. Nuclear bombs of 40 years ago, such loss of 20 to 30 Congressional seats Roos agreed that the elections as that dropped on Hiroshima, con­might be expected in such an elec­showed a significant change in 

wins overwhelmingly
sisted of ten to twenty kilotons of tion and would not constitute a voters' hearts. "1 think there was a TNT ( 1 kiloton major defeat for the GOP. strong trend throughout most of the 1000 tons). According to McGlinn, Huckfeldt pointed out, however, country in the last few days of the 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Approval state, and still they got beat," said today's weapons are megaton that incumbent presidents generally campaign against the Republican 
of nuclear weapons freeze referen­Rep. Ed Markey, D-Mass., a freeze dums in eight states out of nine was supporter, speaking of the ad­
bombs -100 times the amount of lose an average ofonly 12 to 15 seats party," he said, adding that the TNT in the former atomic bomb. during their first term;Jimmy Carter Democrats won "a modest victory, 
welcomed by freeze advocates yes­ministration. "They made a tactical terday as a public repudiation of decision to write off the whole
"How can we possibly tell what a lost 12 seats in 1978 and Richard but it could have been much bigger. President Reagan's arms control country, and it backfired." 
megaton bomb would do?" he asked. Nixon lost 10 in 1970 in the last two The GOP should be very relieved policies and his missile buildup
Scientists, however, can postulate such elections. By that standard, that the margin was not wider." But nuclear physicist Edward Tel­
plans.

effects. McGlinn said that many Huckfeldt said, 26 seats would Both Roos and Huckfeldt saw the ler, a developer ofthe H-bomb, said, 
The White House, taking a turn­"I think this is not a defeat. It shows 
the-other·cheek stance, said it, too, that when people have time to thin . 
welcomed the results. but merely as about it they begin to change their "an expression of concern and a minds. They begin to understand
0 'Neillpraises victory 
desire to achieve progress on arms that the real way to insure peace is to control." 
look after our defense and that givesStrictly advisory, the referendums me hope that a nuclear war will be called for negotiations with the avoided."

House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill of Massachu­
Soviets on halting production,
setts talks with reporters in his Capitol Hill office 
A tally by the Nuclear Weapons

deployment and testing of nuclear late Tuesday night. The Democratic speaker later 
Freeze Campaign said nationwideweapons and the missiles, sub­the referendums carried by a 3-2

called the election results "a disastrous defeat for 
marines and planes that carry them margin, with 10,765,000 votes cast -a scheme the administration says
the president." In spite of losing 26 House seats, 
in favor and 7,170,000 against.

would lock America into military in­
Republican President Ronald Reagan ·said he has 
was "every reason to feel good" about the results. Elec­
feriority. especially in Europe. The vote the biggest ballot 
test of sentiment on a public policy tion coverage continues inside: 
Besides carrying in eight states, issue in U.S. history. " the referendums won in all the big 
•Prots analyze election......page I 
cities where they were placed Vote totals showed the proposal 
before Tuesday's voters. won by margins of roughly 3-1 in Arizona turned thumbs down on Massachusetts. New Jersey, Chicago 
•Inside 
Thursday.............page 2 

•Illinois 
race still tight...page 2 


the proposal by a 3-Z margin and the and Philadelphia County, Pa.; by 7-3
•Pollster assesses Demo wins.page "-1 
victory in California a bat­in Washington, D.C. and populous
•Election summary............page 6 
tleground state-was only 52 to 48 Suffolk County, N.Y.; by 3-2 in Michi­~Reagan happy with results...page 6 
percent. gan, North Dakota, Oregon, Rhode 
"They took all their troops and big Island, Dade County, Fla. and Reno, gurr~ and put them all in that one Nev.; and by about 5-4 in Montana. 
•Photos ofvictors...........page' 





-~-------~ 


NewsBrieb 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Joseph T. Bonadies, supervisor of the grounds at Saint Mary's, has been elected outstanding member of the year by the Professional Grounds Management Society. Bonadies, who joined the Saint Mary's staff in 1954, was given the President's Medal last spring during Saint Mary's commencement. A member of the Professional Grounds Management Society since 1940, Bonadies will receive the organization's highest honor at its annual conven­tion next month in San Diego. -The Observer 
The FreshmanYear ofStudieshas organized 
a number of activities for Freshman throughout November. The second Freshmen's Other Choice will be presented 8:00 tomorrow evening in the La Fortune Ballroom. The program will include a variety show featuring acts from Morrissey Manor, Carroll, Stanford, Lyons, and Pasquerilla West and will be followed by a polka dance. Astrid Hotvedt and several other members ofthe physical education department will again provide instructions and encouragement. Refreshments will be served. Tickets are available free ofcharge but must be obtained before 4:00p.m. today in the Freshmen Year of Studies Office. Large screen video parties will be held for the Pitt and Air Force games. 250 tickets are available free ofcharge but must be obtained in advance between 2:00 and 4:00 the Thursday before the game. The next Freshmen date night will be Tuesday Nov. 16 and will include dinner at the Ice House followed by a movie. Reserva­tions will be $8 per couple and must be made by Friday Nov. 12 .The traditional Freshmen Trip to Chicago will be Friday Nov. 26, the day after Thanksgiving. The $l0 charge will include round trip transportation to and from many of Chicago's tourist attractions, lunch and dinner. Reservations must be made no later than Tuesday November 23. -The Obseroer 
Illinois RepublicanGov. James R. Thompson clung to a slim lead yesterday night over Democratic challenger Adlai E. Stevenson, but both sides predicted victory as officials counted the· final crucial votes from Chicago precincts. It appeared the election would be decided on the narrowest of margins, perhaps the closest statewide race since 1960 when john F. Kennedy defeated Richard Nixon by fewer than 10,000 votes in Illinois presidential balloting. With 97 percent of precincts reported in unofficial returns, or 11,326 of the state's 11,642 polling places, Thompson had 1,774,010 votes to Stevenson's 1,735,350-a margin ofjust 38,660 out of some 3.5 million votes cast. Of the estimated 130,000 votes remaining, 70,000 were in the city, where Stevenson would be ex­pected to run stronger, and 60,000 in the near suburbs, where Thompson would likely win. -AP 
Nine leftist gunmen who said they were against military rule in Turkey seized the Turkish consulate and dozens of hostages in a storm ofgunfire, but gave up early Thursday after near­ly 16 hours of negotiations, police in Cologne, West Germany reported. The raiders released 59 hostages in stages during the negotiations and police said 13 people who either were hostages or had hidden during the assault still were in the building at the time of the surrender. One hostage suffered a head injury and another was in a state of shock, police said. They said the gunmen surrendered peacefully and immediately asked for political asylum. -AP 
The Wife Of newspaper heirPeter Pulitzer tes­
tified from West Palm Beach, Fla., yesterday that she had seen her husband lying on a bed with his daughter who was naked from the waist up, sipping champagne and hugging and kissing. Clutching a white, leatherbound Bible, Roxanne Pulitzer said the 52-year-old hotelier was infatuated with Liza Leidy, his 26-year-old daughter from a previous marriage to Palm Beach designer Lilly Pulitzer. Mrs. Pulitzer, 31, also testified that her husband had once told her that he had slept with Liza and that Liza told her she wanted to love her father like a wite. "They'd lay on the bed together, drinking cham­pagne," said Pulitzer's wife ofsix years. "She'd sit on his lap hugging and kissing him for hours. She'd sunbathe without a top and then they'd lie together when she was naked from the waist up." When she complained to her husband about such conduct, Mrs. Pulitzer said he replied, "I'm just hugging my daughter." When she took her complaints to Liza, Mrs. Pulitzer said, the daughter informed her "she wished she was married to him. She said she wished they weren't father and daughter." -AP 
PopeJohn Paul II urged nuclear researchers yester­day to call a halt to the nuclear arms race by refusing tofashion new instruments of death. "It is a scandal of our time that many resear­chers are dedicated to improving new weapons for war," the pope told a gathering of Spanish professors and intellectuals at Madrid's Complutense University. "Consciences must be awakened," he declared. "Your responsibility and the possibilities of influence on public opinion are immense. Make them serve the cause of peace and the real progress ofman." The 62-year-old pontiffwas only four days into his 10-day tour of Spain, the first by a pontiff, but he ack­nowledged he was tiring. -AP 
Breezy today and tonight and cold with 60 percent chanceofsnow showers. Highs mid to upper 30s. Lows upper 20s to
~ 

L___ 
low 30s. Continued cold tomorrow with occasional snow fturries. 
Thursday, November 4, 1982-page 2 
Post election observations 
The 1982 election has finally and mercifully come to a close. The multitudes of mudslingers, who seemed to pack especially vicious ammunition this year, will now rest their weary arms (at least until 1984, that is). The inane and senseless rhetoric has ceased, leaving only the cries of joy of the victors and the conciliatory speeches ofthe losers. 
This election was made out to be an extremely cru­cial one by the press and justifiably so. With President Reagan and his band of conservative hatchet men in control of the White House for the past two years, this election was to act as a midterm report card, with the voters grading Reagan's political and economic policies. Now that all ofthe report cards have been col­lected and tabulated, political analysts are still in the dark about what it all means. 
Acursory look at the election results might lead one to believe that the people mandated somewhat of a change; they did not want to "stay the course." In what may appear to be a stunning blow to Reagonomics, Democrats gained 26 seats in the U.S. House of Representatives and seven positions in.the statehouses throughout the nation. The Democrats claim that these results show the American people are tired of Republican control and are yearning for Democratic al­ternatives. House Speaker 
• 

It is true they won an ap­parently impressive two dozen seats in the House of Representatives, but traditionally the party in power at the White House loses about 20 seats in first-term off year elections. The average loss of House seats dating back to the early 1800's is 31 at midterm. 
Considering the situation in this historical perspective, the victories of the Democratic party are not extraordinary at all. And it is precisely because of this "average" showing that the party is currently facing a major crisis with its very future at stake. 
No doubt the Democratic contenders were salivating like famished dogs as each one anticipated his or her turn at taking a bite out of Reagan's economic policies. The dubious economic future of the U.S. provided the Dems with a made-to-order bandwagon which should have carried many more of their comrades to the steps of the Capitol. Unemployment towers at over ten per­cent. Businesses have failed at an appalling rate. Cut­backs in social programs, the arts and student loans threaten the postei"ity and prosperity of the country. 
The issues were there for the 
The Observer 
Design Editor..... ..Deirdre Murphy lJesif{ll Assistunt ... .......... Ken Cerahona Laura Puk Typesetters ......Jim Maclennan Toni Rutherford News Editor... ...... Mark Worscheh Copy Editor.. ... Jdl Harrin,::ton 
ti&TLayout ............................. Alex Szilvas Editorials Layout.... . ...... Tim Neely Sport~ Copy Editor. ......... Rich O'Connor Ad Design.. . ............ Marilyn Larkin Photographer........... ..... Rachel Blount ND Day Editor........... ........ Dave Grote SMC Day Editor... . .......... Tari Brown Guest Appearances. Monica, Polish Club ofND ( Dzave, Szan, Lew), The Snow Rab· bit, The Tickler, Needless, A Peeping 
Tom 
And maybe there are seasons, And maybe they change, And maybe to love is not so strange . 
The Observer tUSPS 598 9201 1S published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer,1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Mary s Col· lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntmg The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame fnd1ana 46556 
The Observer 1s a member of The Associated Press All reproduct1on nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lncl1ana 46556 l 
Dems to take 

BIOLOGICAL/PHYSICAL SCIENCES ... 

You're Needed AIIOverthe .World. 
Ask Peace Corps volunteers why they ore using their Science major, minor. or aprirude in health clinics and classrooms in Malaysia. Why do they use them in fish pond. culrure projects and experimental farms in Western Samoa? They'll tell you their ingenuity and flexibility are as imparranr as their degrees. Ask them why Peace Corps is the roughest job you'll ever love. 
REGISTER NOW AT THE PLACEMENT OFFICE FOR INTERVIEWS TUES & WED, NOV. 16 & 17 

PEACE CORPS 

adavantage of, but they failed to do so. The most ob­vious and glaring deficiency of the Dems is that they offered little in the way of alternatives. Instead of developing a concrete plan ofaction they chose to wail and beat their chests over what they perceived as weaknesses and inequalities of Reagan's policies. As a party, they merely agreed to disagree. As individuals, most of th.em took their fair share of cheap shots at Reagan and the Republicans, crying out to the masses in impassioned·pleas to rout the wealthy, cold-hearted, war mongering Republicans in favor of the concerned, humble and hard working Democrats. 
And the smell of horse maneure emanated through­out the land. 
Because of the high unemployment rate, the Dems 
made jobs the major issue of 
the election. Their proposal 
to put people back to work? 

were even that successful can be attributed largely to the impatience ofthe American people concerning that elusive economic recovery and because ofthe high un­employment rate. But under Reagan inflation is down, interest rates are down, housing starts and disposable income is up and Wall Street is still booming. That's pretty effective work for just two years in office. And things wilrget better in the next two years. 
It will just take a little bit longer now that more Democrats are in the House of Representatives. 
Observer notes___~____, 
The Observer is always looking for new people--­yes, you too can be a memberoftheObseroer!!! We need producation people, layout, news and sports writers,etc. Give us a call at 239-5303. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not necessarily represent the views of The Observer or its editorial board. 
Tip O'Neill, D-Mass., called the vote "a disastrous defeat for the president." Meanwhile, over in the Rose Garden, Reagan smiled and claimed, "We beat the odds." 
Exactly what the ramifica­tions will be are still uncer­tain. Even the best political analyst would probably do better with a crystal ball. But one clear message did break through that cloud ofconfu­sion and uncertainty last Tuesday; the Democratic party is in serious trouble. 
Public works projects like in the days of the Great Depression. It sounds great. But to create such jobs would mean higher taxes, increasing budget deficits and consequently inflation and higher interest rates, the very elements that the present administration is trying to alleviate. 
These Mickey Mouse proposals are shaky if not dangerous and yet, unfor­tunately for the U.S., we now have 26 more Democratic representatives in the House. The fact that they 

~ ~---~ --­


The Observer Thursday, November 4, 1982 -page 3 

Sex offense seminar 

Police describe legal aspect of rape 
By MICHOLE MADDEN They both emphasized that alC possibly dangerous situations. They News Staff calls and reports to security are con­reminded students that security is fidential, and every call is acted always willing to escort them across 
The problems associated with upon. They also reported that campus if they must walk alone. proving a rape in court arrd Notre security averages thirty sex offense Moreover, those who have been vic­Dame's security measures in han­calls per year with only one case of timized are encouraged to call and dling such attacks were among the rape last year. Mr.Rakow stated that report the incident, or take ad­topics discussed in a sex offense most ofthe assaults take place in the vantage of various counselling seminar held last night. dorms, and the actual rape cases services available. 
The lecture, entitled the "Legal have all occured on the outskirts of The final seminar, a self defense 
Aspects of Rape," was the second in the campuses . clinic, is being held tonight at 7 in a series seminars being sponsored Rakow and Schellinger en­the gymnastics room of the Rockne by the Woman's Caucus. couraged an increased awareness of Memorial. 
Police Sergeant Bonnie Werntz discussed how rape cases are handled within the courts, outlining the three things that must be es­tablished to prove that a rape has 
Professor Ludwikowski occured: penetration, a lack of con­sent by the victim, and proofthat the 
to discuss Solidarity
suspect was actually the one who as­sailed the victim. by TOM MOWLE nations have in making a response to 
Werntz displayed a rape kit and News Staff the situation in Poland. He says, explained how it is used to gather "Your economy is your biggest ad­physical evidence from the victim at A Polish professor who is seeking vantage because you have a strong the time ofthe rape. She emphasized political asylum in the United States, system, but...you are not able to 
the importance of this physical Rett R. Ludwikowski, will speak retaliate against the Soviets without evidence in order to obtain a convic­tonight on the origins of Solidarity, hurting yourself." 
tion : "Rapists always leave some­the outlawed independent labor un­Ludwikowski worries about the 
thing behind." ion, at 7:30 in the Galvin Life-. influence of leftists in Western 
Physical evidence, however, is Science Auditorium. Europe. "I am strongly afraid," he 
only the first step. The mvst difficult Ludwikowski, whose lecture is says, "that Western Europe can be 
proof to establish is the lack of con­co-sponsored by the Student Union step-by-step Finlandized. The leftest 
sent ofthe victim, especially in cases and the Arts and Letters General minority in Western Europe is very 
where the victim knows the as­Program, feels that the U.S. should influential. It calls the tune because 
sailant. help movements like Solidarity, al­the majority is silent." 
Werntz estimated that only one though he admits that he is not sure Ludwikowski was a professor at 
percent of all rapists are ever con­how it can be done. · the Institute of Political Science at 
victed and many are never even He believes that the U.S. should Jagellonian University in Cracow, 
brought to trial. eventually declare Poland in default, Poland, and chairman ofthe Depart· 
Speakers~ Rex Rakow and Anne but says that the result would be a ment of Modern Political Move­
Schellinger of Notre Dame Security loss of influence over Poland's ments and Ideas, until the 
disc~ussed the specifics ofsex offense policies. declaration of martial law nearly 
cases on campus. These cases in­Ludwikowski, who holds doc­eleven months ago. Feu-ing a purge 
clude not only rape, but obscene torates in the philosophy of law and of non-Communist Party members 
phone callls, indecnt exposure, and in the history of political ideas, at the university, he left the country 
assault. recognizes the difficulty Western soon after for the United States. 
" 


YOU'RE WASTING YOUR MONEY BUYING ANYWHERE ELSE! 
. r 

Dr. Charles Rice stresses a pointduring his lecture "Euthanasia and Living Wills" last night in O'Shaughnessy Hall. Rice used several case histories to raise questions about the legality and morality ofsuicide and losing the will to live. The lecture was sponsored by the Thomas More Society. (Photo byRachelBlount) 
General Program and the Student Union present 
Dr. Rett ludwikowski 
Member of Solidarity Labor Union on ttThe Origins of Solidarity" 
THURSDAY, NOV. 4 7:30pm GALVIN AUDITORIUM 
Closest Liquor Store to N·D· campus 

KEGS 

BUD LIGHT $2699 BUSCH $2599 
$31 99
MICHELOB 
$2999

BUD GENERIC $2199 BUSCH $1599 
$1899

BUD MICHELOB $1999 
QUANTITIES LIMITED 
MILWAUKEE 
REGULAR &LIGHT 
OLD J'!!!ai 
4~4~20~ gss 
CANS 
1.75 LITER 
BLUE NUN FLEISCHMANN'S LIEBFRAUMILCH ROYAL VODKA 
AN INCREDIBLE 
&~~LITER 
AWORLD OF WINES Ill 
THURSDAY NOVEMBER 11 th 
FOR THE ·BENEFIT OF )" 
MDA 
DONATION 5 5°0 SAMPLE 
OVER 100 WINES AND CHEESES 
5 P.M.-9:30P.M. at the Notr' Dame A.C.C. 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT All STORES 

QUARTS 
BUD STROHS MILLER LITE 
.. 


STROHS LIGHT 


24 /12 oz cans 
.... ·nra.ry Prices 
in Their Ad, And We'll Beat Their Price! 



~,-------­~----~-----~-~~  -~----­ 
r·:  
The Observer  Thursday, November 4, 1982 ­ page 4  

Fingerhut lecture 
Pollster labels elections 'nostalgic' 


By CHUCK KRILL 
StaffReporter 
The 1982 elections were a "nostalgia vote" for the Democratic Party, according to nationally­known political pollster ViCtor Fin· gerhut. 
Fingerhut's presentation last night in the Architecture Auditorium, en· titled "Interpreting the 1982 Elec­tion Returns," was the fifth Joseph P. Moloney Memorial Lecture and was sponsored by the Notre Dame Economics Department and the United Steelworkers ofAmerica. In assessing the signicance of the 
Victor Fingerhut recent elections, Fingerhut pointed 
-=ast &ffiissatf Appecuing Live atChautaugau Lafortune Balltoom Sat. Nov. 6th 9:30 to 12:30 11.00  
DON'T miSS THIS mUSIC.AL COmEDY TEAm. THEY POKE FUN AT mODERN LIFE AS WELL AS PLAYING POPULAR mUSIC LIKE JimmY BUFFET & STEVE GOODmAN.  

to the recent fluctutation in Democratic party strength. "Since the mid 1930's, the Democrats have enjoyed an advantage ofabout three Democrats to every two Republicans and every two Indepen­dents," he said. But, according to the polls, "in 1981 there were signs of the breakup ofthe Democratic coali· tion" that had stood since "the onset of the Great Depression," he stated. 
Fingerhut interprets the Democratic gains in the House of Representatives as indicating that "the dissipation of the Democratic majority has been reversed. The New Deal coalition demonstrated yesterday that it is still intact." 
He sees the reason behind the resurgence in Democratic strength to be the fact that "people came back to the traditional allegiances" in voting. "Yes, the vote was remarkably traditional around the country," he said. Fingerhut called the vote "a standoff," but qualified that "it is a standoffin a country with a Democratic majority." 
Fingerhut applies polling tech· niques in the organization of many Democratic campaigr:s. In com­parison to Republicans, he says that the Democrats have much less money available for radio and televi· sion advertising. This year he helped parity in campaign budgets prevents many "nominees of the national "political discussion" between the Democratic Party who, two weeks two parties, he suggests that the before a general election, did not government "establish minimum have radio spots." thresholds for everybody." This 
"The Democrats could have would decrease the influence of probably picked up an additional I 5 political action committees and · to 20 seats in the House if there had would allow Congressmen to been a parity of spending" between "provide more public policy in the 
the two parties," he added. common interest and less public Because Fingerhut thinks that dis-policy in the special interest." 
...Defense 
continuedfrom page 1 
A third political perspective was given by Government Professor John Roos. He stressed that ifwe are to create short-term alternatives to solve the problem, "there may be a price to pay." 
He explained that collective ac­tion is improbable; that the situation is not like a bus heading for a cliff, hut like a bus teetering on the edge with people inside shouting at each other, and some not paying atten­tion. And, he said, our collective good intentions might push us over. 
Someone must be willing to pay the price, he said. This price might include the acceptance of universal draft or the choice ofdying in a con­ventional war, in addition to finan­cial burdens. 

Yet, to Roos, for the U.S. "to deny the world the price ofits ransom," or to fail to accept the responsibility would be wrong. 
The panel discussion concluded with a question and answer session and Hesburgh's concluaing remarks. 
Heshurgh described his efforts of late September, 1982, when he met with an international group ofscien­tists to formulate a statement denouncing nuclear weapons and asking the nuclear powers to ban 

• 
• 


oesn'
• 


opportunity to see these projects to completion. 
In the long run we think you' II find that TRW offers an environment that brings out 
us••. 
At TRW it's what we're all about. We've created an environment encouraging people like you to 
define and go after your individual professional goals. So when you work with us, 
you'll get a personalized approach to your technical growth. An approach that includes . 
An informal atmosphere that 
encourages insightful thinking. Co-workers who value the free interchange of ideas. 
Responsive managers who look 
out for your advancement. A broad spectrum of challenging projects to choose from -­
Projects ranging from large data base software systems, communications spacecraft and alternative energy sources, to scientific satellites, high energy lasers and microelectronics. 
And you' II appreciate the 
the uniqueness in you. 
TRW will be on campus 11/11, 12 hiring graduates in most Engi­neering and Scientific disciplines at all degree levels. 
See your Placement Office for more information. 
College Relations TRW Electronics and Defense Bldg. R5/B196. Dept. ND One Space Park Redondo Beach, CA 90278 
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H 
U.S. Citizenship Required 
··~·· 
their use. Aco-originator ofthe ef­fort with Franz Cardinal Koenig of Vienna, Austria, the former presi­dent of the Vatican's Secretariat for Non-Believers, Hesburgh joined the group, of which about one-fourth were from the Soviet Union, in Vien­na to make the statement a reality. The result was presented to Pope Paul II on Sept. 24 in Vatican City. 
Hesburgh plans to return to Vien­na on November 18 for a second meeting with a group of world religious leaders. Koenig has invited them to join scientists from the first meeting in an attempt to reach the widest possible audience with a message both morally justified and scientifically correct. 
"This is just a beginning," Res­burgh said ofthe current goals ofthe group. "If leaders can be armed by the best scientific advisors in the world and thus pass judgement, then they can go to all of their people.in all parts of the world to say this is a moral obscenity." 
Collectible Records 
hard to find out of print records 
Lincolnway East and Cedar in Mishawaka 
( 5 blocks east of downtown) 
Tues.-Fri. 5-8 p.m. Sat. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
BUY SELL TRADE 
fl.tiiJ.iiSDi~ 
AT TN[ : 
SNIT[ 
It"s an event: 

MUSEUM TOURS 
CIDER &DOUGHNUTS 
BUTTONS 
NOV.4 
4 TO 8PM 

...........................................................~ 
•..;'' 


r. ; 

The Observer Thursday, November 4, 1982 -page 5 
Law lecture 
OToole en~ourages SMC wrotnen 

By PAM RICHARDSON 
News Staff 
Law school hopefuls at Saint Mary's met last night to hear an in­formal lecture by a present female lawyer encouraging them to make an attempt at law school. 
Barbara Patrick O'Toole of the Roger Baldwin Foundation of American Civil Liberties Union spoke yesterday as part of "College to Career Days '82" at Saint Mary's. OToole, a staff attorney for the ACLU, is a 1959 graduate of Saint Mary's with a BA in Christian Culture (now Humanistic Studies) and an English minor. O'Toole, who received her law degree from Loyola in 1969. advised the under­
graduates hoping to attend law school to take a variety ofcourses in different areas in order to make for a 
continuedfrom page 1 
making cuts without reducing "real" 
defense strength. 
Democrats may oppose the ten percent tax cut Reagan will ask for, hoping to turn that revenue toward retirement of the national debt and financing short-term public works programs to ease unemployment, predicts Roos. If interest rates climb back to previous levels, he believes Congress will consider credit policies giving federal assistance to t home-buyers and others. And ·.the Democrats, elected in part on the promise to preserve Social Security, will resist any moves to reduce benefits for the aged. 
Huckfeldt added that he felt the elections have weal!ened Reagan's previous domination of Congress and will make approval of his programs more difficult to achieve. And though the GOP retains its edge in the Senate. the close campaigns endured by Republican Senators may force them to consider the President's proposals more cautiously in the future. 
Huckfeldt does not see a Democratic alternative to Reaganomics, however. The Democrats have "many individual ideas, but there is no evidence that the party is converging around one set of ideas for managing the economy." The most likely Democratic solution may be the party's traditional emphasis on jobs 
: 
iC. r v-:~-~ 
iC. >,· ·.. ~ 
i( """' 

well-rounded student. She also 
urged students to "keep your op­
tions open as best you can and as 
long as you can." 
Law school is difficult, she said, 
"but not as difficult as it appears to 
be. All you can do is flunk out and 
you don't lose anything but maybe a 
little selfesteem." 
Quoting Beverly Sills, O'Toole said, "You may be disappointed if you fail, but you're doomed if you don't try." 
O'Toole described law school as a "new discipline." She feels that you must learn new ways of writing and reading in order to "separate the wheat from the chaf." Commment­ing on the value of practicing law, she defended the profession as sub­stantial and ofsome public value. As support for this statement, O'Toole cited the ACLU's main goal: 
for the unemployed, as advocated by Senator Edward M. Kennedy. 
But if in six months a strong recovery has begun, Roos said, with declining unemployment, low infla­tion, and decreasing interest rates, Reaganomics will be called a success and the GOP restored to its previous strength, despite the outcome ofthe recent elections. 
Two recent political develop­ments also illustrated by the elec­tions are the decline in power ofthe National Conservative Political Ac­tion Committee (NCPAC) and the trend toward individualized, high­technology campaigns. 
NCPAC successfully targeted many liberal Democrats for defeat in 1980, but failed this year in 11 out of 12 targeted campaigns, in one in­stance contributing to the victory of liberal Senator Paul Sarbanes of Maryland. Both Roos and Huckfeldt said that the strength ofNCPAC had been overestimated in 1980, that liberals like McGovern and Church were in political trouble long before NCPAC entered their campaigns; Roos also noted that NCPAC had lost its element of surprise. by this year, that most liberals in 1982 were prepared for NCPAC's threat. 
But Roos believes the wider trend toward individualistic campaigns, with candidates distancing them­selves from their party's platform and relying on local polling and so­phisticated computers, to be part of a process of "insulation," by which 
BRIDGET'S 
guaranteeing the freedoms of the Bill ofRights. 
On the issue of being both a wife and a career women O'Toole advised women to "establish priorities and don't worry about the rest." 
About 40 percent of lawyers today are women, but the field is dominated at the top by men, prompting O'Toole to ask, "When are we going to have women as partners in major firms with clout?" 
O'Toole  called  women  judges in  
today's  society  "pioneers"  of  
women in law.  

O'Toole described the practice of law as "fairly demanding and requir­ing the highest skills you have. It is very stimulating to work with people who are interested in the same areas." 
...Bomb 
candidates isolate themselves from broader national problems and policies. 
This insulation did save a number of Republican seats, Roos noted. "One important consideration might be why the GOP didn't lose more seats than it did: if this election had been held with the technologi­cal and financial levels of 1958 the GOP might have taken a 65-seat loss.'" 
But that insulation also "strikes right at the governability problem," Roos stated, by divorcing the elec­toral process from the governing one. When candidates are elected on local, peripheral issues and are not tied to a clear, direct national agenda determined by the people, those candidates will judge national policy, not by the party platform, but on the policy's effect on their in­dividual prospects for re-election. 
This increases the difficulty of formulating a comprehensive na­tional policy to which a majority of 
lawmakers  will  agree,  and  thus  
reduces  the  government's  
responsiveness  to  national  
problems.  

The President's authority is weakened by the same process. "It's becoming harder to count on a President's coattails," Huckfeldt noted. "We haven't had a President in office in recent years who has been popular enough to help Con­gressional candidates." 
-

(k~«HSa
For the totai look on astyled ~II( * Hair Cut, Shampoo, tl4 * Blow Dry, Condition 27_2-0312 * Regular$15.00 277-1619 * Now 8.50 with coupon * 
54533 Terrace Lane * Across from Martin's (St. Rd. 23) * 
.We are only minutes from campus • 
************COUPON *************. 
Browsers and collecters alike converge on the University of Notre Dame Press's Dirzv Book Sale in the Library concourse. The sale continues today. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
,.~:==="Papa & Mama Do The Cooking"'ll8·-~ Francesco's Famiglia 277-6155 Restaurant 277-6156 
featuring 

FOUR SEASONS PIZZA 
The Original Southern Recipe Lasagna, Home-made Spaghetti, All V . t. f Sa dWJC.hes 
Ch. k Ca . . V 1p . . ane tes o n
1c en cctaton, ea arm1g1ana 

(Francesco was chejfor Holy Cross Fathersfor 21yrs.) 
1636 N. Ironwood ·-----..:"WE DELIVER"------... 
\!:=====:"'lP:roprietor: Francesco C'atanzariti-===•~ 
~" Norbertlne I Fathers & Brothers% 
We offer the opportunity for Teaching 
and Pastoral Ministry with life in community. 
We are men seeking God through 

t shared life t shared prayer t shared ministry 
Thi8 18 our ehalleugef 
For more Information write to: :'\arne  Rev. Gene Gries, O.Praem. Vocation Director St_ Norbert Abbev De Pere, Wlscon~in 54115 Addres.o;  
City  State  Zip  

Age Completed lligh Schml College 

Special Student Rates Available For Pitt Game 
HERTZ These Economy Fares are Tourina Rates, subject to c:banae without notice and non-discountable. There are no minimum day and adva~~c:e reseriati011 requi~men.Js, but restriction.'! oli wbe• and wbere cars must be returned. Gas is not included. CaD Hertz for details. 
HAPPY HOUR 3-7  Mon & lues  Thurs  Fri  Sat S2.00 Pitchers or 25' Drafts During Pitt Game  
All Liquor 1for I  7-10 25' Beer  Kamikaze Night 75' PRIZES  Midnite Special 11:30-12:30 2for I HOUSEDRINKS  
Discounts on Beer Free Snacks  

****************************** 
~ Men's Hair Styling at its finest * ~ 'The Knights ofthe Castle' * 

_._..,... ._....~___.......,._..-....... ~ ~---.....----~----··----~-~-~---~---·----------~~-~------~~---------­
: ( 
il i 
il 
II
., j, The Observer 
Electionsummary 

Bakerfe~s politicalstalen1ate 
I 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan flashed a post-election smile yesterday, though he acknowledged he would have to bend more toward bipartisanship to make headway on his legislative agenda for the next two years. The Republican leader of the Senate, where the GOP held the lines, said he feared the outcome 
could lead to stalemate. 
Reagan said he was all smiles, for "We beat the odds." Democratic leaders insisted the voters had or­dered the president to make "mid­course corrections" in his programs. 
If so, that message was clearest in 
the governors' races. Democrats 
took over nine new statehouses 
while losing only two to the GOP, 
swelling their ranks to at least 34 
from the current 27. 
But the big prize of Illinois was still at stake, with Gov. James Thompson hanging on to a 33,000­vote margin over former Democratic Sen. Adlai Stevenson III, out of 3.4 million votes with some Chicago precincts still uncounted. 
Also unsettled was the Rhode Is­land Senate race, where Republican incumbentJohn Chaffee was leading with the absentee ballots yet un­counted. 
Reagan did admit yesterday that 
the outlook for the next two years is 
one ofcompromise with Democrats 
who did not want to "stay the 
course." 
"We won't compromise on prin­
ciples ofwhat we absolutely believe 
is essential to the recovery," he said 
at a brief Rose Garden appearance. 
"There have been concessions and 
compromises in both directions on 
all ofthe major issues and we expect 
to ontinue to work with Congress in 
that way." 
"We look forward to working with this Congress now in a bipar­tisan fashion to solving the major problems that still have to be solved," said Reagan. 
White House Chief of StaffJames 
Baker agreed there may have to be 
some more compromising with the 
Democrats in the next two years. 
House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., D-Mas., took a different tack, call­ing the vote "a disastrous defeat for the president." It "showed that America doesn't agree with the un­fairness policy of the president," he said. 
Howard H. BakerJr. ofTennessee, still Senate Majority Leader despite late and ultimately unjustified worries that Democrats might regain control, was worried the new line-up could produce ·a legislative stalemate. 
"My greatest fear is that with an enhanced Democratic majority in the House and Republican majority in the Senate we may have difficulty in deciding what the legislative agenda ought to be, and that might end up in a year or so ofstalemate," Baker said. 

,.........•......•.....••....•.•...•..•.......•................•.._
.
.

. I c11<~ 413J~cll< c111cl 13()()"1~ t() tli~ j()~§ cli!CI ()()~§ S()UilcJ ()f 

•·•••••••••••····••••·••••·•·•·········••·•·•··········••·•········ 
In any case, the voting did not provide a clear referendum on Reagan and his supply-side economic policies, but the results 
do  foreshadow  some  changes  to  
come.  
Here  is  the  way  the  election  
shapes up:  

In the Senate, the GOP will hold onto 54 seats, while the Democrats will control 46. Of the 33 races, Democrats won 20 and Republicans 12. 
Republican Chic Hecht defeated Democratic Sen. Howard Cannon in Nevada and Rep. Paul Trible won in Virginia over Lt. Gov. Dick Davis. The Virginia seat is held by retiring independent Harry Byrd, who voted with Democrats in organizing the upper chamber. 
In the House, Democrats have won 264 seats and are .leading for 3 more, for a total of 267. That would be a gain of 24 seats for the Democrats over the current 2. The GOP has won 165 and is leading in one other race. The current GOP strength is 192. 
At least 24 GOP incumbents lost and two more were trailing. Only three Democratic incumbents lost. 
Republican Minority Leader Robert H. Michel turned back a strong challenge from G. Douglas Stephens in his economically depressed Illinois district. 
Reagannot upset about GOPlossesinelection 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President 
Reagan declared yesterday that 
Republicans "have every reason to 
feel good" about the off-year elec­
tion results, despite significant 
losses in the House. But he hedged 
about whether he would alter his 
economic course. 
Sounding conciliatory as he met with reporters in the Rose Garden, the president pledged to work with the new Congress "in a bipartisan fashion to solve the major problems that still have to be solved." 
However, Reagan vowed, "We will not compromise on principle ­on what we absolutely believe is es­sential to the recovery." 
The president had invested his personal prestige in the election by campaigning around the country ­and got mixed results. Reagan played down what appeared to be a loss of about 24 Republican seats in the House and played up the fact that Republicans lost no seats in the Senate, where they retain control, 54-46. 
"There is a smile on our faces and intentionally so," the president said, standing with Vice President George Bush under an unseasonably warm 
In the 36 statehouse races, Democrats had a field day. They picked up nine seats previously held by the GOP, including tossing out Republican incumbents in Arkansas, Nebraska, Nevada and Texas. They took open races in Alaska, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio and Wisconsin now held by outgoing Republicans. , 
The .GOP was able to knock off 
Democratic incumbent Hugh Gallen 
in New Hampshire and win a 
squeaker in Califor..ia. They held 
onto seats in Iowa, Oregon, Pennsyl­
vania, South Dakota, Tennessee and 
Vermont. 
The Democratic gains in the statehouses are a bad sign for the GOP two years down the road, for governors often provide the best ready-made political machines for presidential election campaigns. 
It was a bad c:lection day for women -two :-.trong candidates tor the U.S. Senate from Missouri and New Jersey lost as did the two women bidding to break the sex lines in the Vermont and Iowa statehouses. 
But there will be 21 women serv­ing in the new House, up one from the current session. 
And the prospect that a black 
uld at last be elected governor of d state was dashed when Tom Brad­ley lost in California to GOP conten­der George Deukmejian. 
sun. 
"If you look traditionally at what has happened in a situation of this kind, we have every reason to feel good," Reagan said. 
Even though Reagan labeled sug­gestions to modify his course "rhetoric of the campaign season which is now over," he never actual­ly ruled it out. 
EARN OVER $1000 A MONTH AND OPEN THE DOOR TO ATOP ENGINEERING FUTURE· 
How many corporations would be willing to pay you over$ 1ooo a month 
during your junior and senior years just so you'd join the company 
after graduation? Under a special Navy program we're doing just that. 
It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate-College Program. 
And under it, you'll not only get great pay during your junior and . 
senior years, but after graduation you'll receive a year of valuable 
graduate-level training that is not available from any other employer.
If you are a junior or senior majoring in math, engineering or physical sciences, find out more today. And let your career pay off while still in college. 
For more information, call the Naval Management Programs Office at: 
1-800-382-9782 or collect 317-269-6197 
Representatives on campus at Placement Office 9 &10 Nov. Call for Appointment and Interview 
,................................................................................................................................................................................1 
i YOUR BSN IS WORTHAN I
i OFFICER'S COMMISSION ~ 
i IN THEARMY. , ! 
~ Your BSN means you're a professional. In the Army, it also ~ ! means you're an officer. You start as a full~fledged member ofour iI medical team. Write: Army Nurse Opportunities, ~ ~ P.O. Box 7713, Burbank, CA 91510. i 
~ ARMYNURSECORPS. ~
i .AILYOUU.NBE. ~ 
l..........................................................................................................................................., .......J 
Thursday, November 4, 1982-page 6 

Leon County, Texas, officials have begun to sift through the wreakage ofthe Cessna 210 Centurian that was piloted by Evan­gelist Lester Roloffand was carrying four women on a trip from Corpus Christi to Kansas City Tuesday morning. Allfive aboard the plane were killed. The controversial Roloffbad been involved in an eight-year battle with the State ofTexas over the licensing of his homesfor waywardyouths. (APPhoto) 
th€Butl€R's pantRY 
1723 So.B€nb avenue 
In ~ROOt 0~ tURtl€ CR€€kapts. 
•

Convenientanb always atyou~ se~v1ce-open 24 h~s. 
Oonk€Ykonq ms.pacman t€mp€st C€rittp€b€ 
BRin(j thiS aO In roR 3 rR€€ tOkEnS 
• 

th€€nb alt€npok€R 

The Observer Thursday, November 4, 1982 -page 7 

i!· 

It 
The months ofcampaigning behind them, all the caudidates could do Tuesday night was watcb tbe retun1s trickle in, in some cases well into yes­
terday morning. One by one, as tbe races were 
decided. the candidates met witb tbeir supporters 
to git•e victory speecbs and receive congratula­
tions. Some u•inners had not been declared as late 
as this mon1ing, bowez•er, notably in the racefor 
Illinois gm,ernor. Some of tbe key winners and 
possible winners are included on this page, as 
captured by the photographers of the Associated 
Press. 

Clockwise from the lower left: 
Ohio Gm·ernor-elect Richard Celeste greets a crowd ofsupporters in Cleveland after defeating Republican Clarence Brown. 
Incumbent 3rd district representative john P. Hiler of Indiana is sun'Ounded by well-wishers after coming back to edge Democratic challenger Richard Bodine. 
Alabama governor-elect George Wallace gets hisflower tugged by Roosevelt Glover as he enters to vote. Wallace won hisfourth term by defeating Republican Emory Folmer. 
Paul Trible, Republican from Virginia, holds up the victory sign after narrowly defeating his opponent, Richard Davis. Trible received 51 per­cent ofthe vote. 
Illinois Democratic gubernatorial candidate AdlaiE. Stevenson relaxes with a cigar and a beer while waitingfor returns to come in. With 97per­cent of the vote in, Stevenson· trails Republican incumbent Gov. james Thompson by about 30,000 votes. 
California Atty. Gen. George Deukmejiart waves to supporters in LosAngeles Tuesday night. Duektnejian defeated Democratic LA. Mayor Tom Bradley. 

''Domet'' Six 
Sixffiilerun sponsored by Non Varsity Athletics Saturday, November 6 Race begins at 10:00am 
Runners sil~:.uld pJ ck up nwnbers no later than 9:4:5 V.'herc: Course is ent~rely on the Notre Dame caml,US ­utilizing the golf course, lakes and ~ampus roads. 
Race begins and ends at the Universtty garage (Old Gred~t Union) 
Entry form must be turned into NVA office by ~hursday, November 4 ~t 5:00. 
Name__________________________________ 
Address---------------------­
Phone_________________ 
Category: Team: 
Undergraduate Male Hall Male --Undergraduate Female --Hall Female -----Graduate Male --Club --Graduate Female ---L-Depart_ment --Faculty/Staff Male =:===Faculty/Staff Female 
Team: __________________________(name) hall, club or department 
Team entries are encouraged ~ five person teams with times scored cross country style. Halls (male, female) Clubs, Departments. 





BusineSS & Technology_Thu_rsda_y,No_vem_ber_4,19_s2_Pa_ges 
-Economic Update 
The Commerce Depa.rttnent reported new 
orders for mmanufactured goods rose 0. 7 percent in September af. ter falling 2. 7 percent in August. The departments of Commmerce and Housing and Urban Developent together reported that sales of new single-family homes rose in September to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 464,000 from 375,000 in August. It was the highest sales rate since May 198I and private and government economists said it reflected recent sharp declines in mortgage interest rates. AP 
International Harvester'sdecision to sell the as­sets ofits Fort Wayne axle and transmission plant to the Dana Corp. means the city will lose another 750 jobs, officials say. Dana spokes­man Don Decker said all Harvester jobs will be phased out. We have no obligation to the Harvester employees," he said. "We have 8,000 ofourown people on layoffs. Morally, our ft irst obligation is to them." I11diana's Lt. Gov. John Mutz said he was "deeply upset" about Deck­er's statement and that he would look into ways to convince Dana to 
keep production at the Harvester plant. Harvester spokesman Bill Colwell said Wednesday that the phaseout will occur over a I2-15 month period and that the jobs would be. eliminated after that. Dana, based in Toledo, Ohio, will pay Harvester cash, service fees, royalties and lease payments as a result ofthe tentative deal, which apparently is designed to inject cash into ailing Harvester, officials said. Dana will move equipment and assets of the Fort Wayne plant ro its units throughout the country, Decker said. -AP 
Marketing Update 
The Indiana coal industry is not well known 
overseas and needs to do a better job of selling itself, an industry official says. Industry officials have estimated Europeans could consume 5 to IO million tons annually. State and coal industry offi­cials see exports as a way to revive the industry, which is operating much below capacity and has a 20 percent unemployment rate. According to estimates by the U.S. Department of Energy, about 2.5 million tons of Indiana coal were exported last" year, which ranks Indiana sixth among coal exporting states. Indiana's main source of competition in this country comes from coal producers in the Ap­palachian region. Among Indiana's selling points are higher produc­tivity and a lower price. Indiana coalgenerally runs $5 to $Siess per ton than Appalachian coal. -AP 
Research Update 
Scientists in Gainesville, Fla. are using com­
puters to probe the mysteries behind solitons, killer waves that move beneath the ocean and can build to six miles long and 300 feet deep. "What makes solitons so important to scientists is that they don't break like the waves you see at the beach or spread apart like the kind you make when you drop a stone into a pond of water," University of Florida physics professor Pradeep Kumar said. The waves are a threat to submarines and offshore oil rigs but their mo­tion could be copied some day and used to improve the transmission ofsound, light and radio electromagnetic waves, Kumar said. -AP 

DINE IN or CARRY OUT ENJOY OUR FINE PIZ2A, ITALIAN SANDWICHES PASTA 
Free liter "RC" $7 Delivery Order 
CARRYOUT DEI.IVEIIV
THE FAMILY PIZZERIA 
Studyreveals 
Japanese IQ's found superior 
From DiscoverMagazine 
The American was perplexed. He had just heard on his Sony television set about a new study ofJapanese in­telligence, and it had started him thinking. He glanced uneasily at the Mazda in the driveway, then at the Minolta on the mantel. 
Many other Americans, mired in a recession and developing a national inferiority complex, were chagrined at the news ofthe intelligence study, which showed that the Japanese ac­hieved significantly higher average IQ scores than did their American counterparts. 
The results again brought to a boil the long-standing debate about in­telligence: Is it largely inherited or most strongly influenced by en­vironment? 
They also called into question the validity of using IQ scores in comparing the mental capacity of races and nationality groups. Are the Japanese inherently smarter than Americans? Or do they simply use their intelligence more effectively to test better? 
The dramatic evidence that there is a disparity between Japanese and American IQ levels appeared in a recent issue ofNature magazine. In a two-page report, Richard Lynn, a British psychologist, revealed that in a single generation the national mean IQ score in japan has risen 
• seven points, and that the average IQ (adjusted t for U.S. performance stan­dards) for the country's younger generation was the highest in the world. Moreover, according to Lynn's figures, about 10 percent ofJapan's population has an IQ level of more than 130, while only 2 percent of Americans and Western Europeans achieved that score. Lynn calculated that fully 77 percent of theJapanese have !Qs above Western European and U.S. averages. Lynn's conclusions were based in part on a test given to 1 , I 00 Japanese youngsters in 1975, a translated version of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children. By correlating Japanese and American results, Lynn determined that the average Japanese score was 1 11, compared with a U.S. score of 100. His study did not ignore Japanese adults. Even among those born as early as 1910 and through the groups born in the I9.30s and 1940s, Japanese consistently scored a few points higher than Americans. But the great mental leap forward -to a lead of 11 points over the Americans -did not come until the generation born after World War II. 
Lynn had anticipated the renewed heredity-vs.-environment debate, and addresed it in his paper. He argued that a rise of seven IQ points in so brief a time would not seem to be the result of "a change in the genetic structure ofthe population." 
Instead, he wrote, "the explana­tion probably lies largely in environ­mental improvements," especially better health and nutrition. 
He largely dismissed another im· 
portant environmental factor that 
most experts think is important in 
the development of intelligence ­
education. 
Like British psychologist Hans Eysenck, he pointed out that scores for 6-year-olds, who were only beginning their formal grade-school education, showed just as great as a 

jump. 
But Lynn may have underes­timated the value of other factors in aJapanese child's early education: A heavy emphasis on preschool programs, the study of language at home, family and social pressure to excel, and preparation for the rigorous tests students must take twice a year to be promoted to the next grade. 
Japanese scholars are cautious 
about reading too much into Lynn's 
study, but they tend to agree, if the 
findings are valid, that their high na­
tional IQ has much to do with the 
"shiken jigoku" (examination hell) 
inflicted on japanese students. 
Other experts question whether Lynn's results were not skewed by an unbalanced sample; they point out that most of the Japanese 
children in the study attended elite urban schools, may of which are af. filiated with private universities. Thus the japanese children may have been a more select group than their American counterparts. 

Another factor, not related to native intelligence, might be in­volved. Hiroshi Azuma, professor of education at the University of Tokyo, challenges the entire notion of intercultural comparison of IQ levels, because, he says, "even if the japanese version is very exact, a translation can still change a great many things. Even non-verbal items can be culture-bound." 
While raising the issue ofjapanese intellectual superiority, Lynn's report -and all the interpretations -hardly resolve it. But two other new studies, both conducted by the University of Michigan's Center for Human Growth and Development, are far less ambiguous in their con­clusions. 
Psychologist Harold Stevenson and colleagues in the United States, Taiwan and Japan set out to test two things: general cognitive ability and specific mathematical achievement in the three countries. 
The cognitive test was carefully constructed to weed out any cul­turally biased items. The test was given to 240 first-graders and 240 fifth-graders in 40 classrooms in Minneapolis, Taipei and Sendai (Japan), and showed no significant difference in overall cognitive ability among the three groups. 
The mathematics test was quite another matter. At the first-grade level, the children from Taiwan edged out the Japanese, with an average of 21.2 correct answers to 
20.7. The United States limped be­hind with a low of I6.6. 
By the fifth grade, the Japanese students averaged 53 correct answers, those from Taiwan 50.5 and Americans only 45. 
Stevenson and his colleagues find no mystery in the disparity. In Sen­dai classrooms, mathematics consumed 25 percent of first-grade classroom time; in Taipei, I 7 per­cent; in Minneapolis, 14 percent.. In the fifth grade, the average class­room time on the subject was 23 percent in Sendai, 28 percent in Taipei, 1 7 percent in Minneapolis. 
Homework counts, too. In japan, first-graders spent an average of 233 minutes every week at it, in Taiwan an astonishing 496 minutes, in the United States a mere 79. 
All this suggest to Stevenson that it is indeed the environment rather than heredity that enables the Japanese to perform so well in tes­ting, and that Americans, if they are beginning to feel inadequate, should be concerned not about their men­tal endowment but about their education system. 
Recordgain 
Stock market reaches new high 
By CHET CURRIER 
Associated Press 
The stock marker surged to a his­toric high Wednesday with a record advance that touched off jubilation, and a touch ofawe, on Wall Street. 
The Dow .Jones average of 30 in­
dustrials, the long-standing in­
dicator that represents "the market" 
to most Americans, skyrocketed 
4.3.41 points to 1,065.49. 
That eclipsed the previous record gain of .38.81 points set on Aug. 17, and carried it past a peak that had stood as a financial Everest for al­most a decade. 
On jan. I I, 1973, the average dosed at 1 ,051. 70. Dozens of times since then, the Dow had risen into the low 1,OOOs, but each time had turned back in an economy plagued by inflation, periodic bouts of high interest rates, and most recently a severe recession. 
Several other broader, but lesser­known market indexes also hit all­time highs in what Edward Yardeni, economist at Prudential-Bache Securities, called "an incredibly im· pressive performance." 
"It's something no one would have believed three months ago," said Charles Jensen, an analyst at MKI securities. "There's a feeling of real, real optimism." 
Prices were rising steadily near the close in hectic trading, evoking expectations of more fireworks when the markets re-open Thursday morning. 
Wednesday's volume on the New 
York Stock Exchange totaled 13 7.0 I 
million shares, the fifth largest total in exchange history. 

Since Aug. I 2, the Dow jones in­
dustrial have now risen more than 
288 points in what many analysts 
have read as a portent ofbetter times 
ahead, perhaps beginning early next 
year, for the economy. 
Wednesday's upsurge came just a day after the midterm elections, in which the Democrats gained about two dozen seats in the House while the Republicans maintained their majority in the Senate. But analysts said the link between the two events was tenuous at best. 
Gains ofseveral points were com­monplace among the market's household name stocks. Financial and housing-related stocks, which are especially sensitive to interest· rate expectations, continued their recent boom, too. 
~----~-· ~ ~--~---------~~~­
--------~--~----~~--­
Thursday, November 4, 1982-page 9 
Editorials 
Election '82: Pollsters were wrong again 
The 1982 elections are now history. Well, almost. As of the time I write this, the Illinois gubernatorial race is still undecided. With 96 percent of the vote in -almost four million votes -GovernorJames Thompson leads Ad· lai Stevenson by a mere 32,000 votes. Overall, 
Tim Neely 

My Turn 
most of the races do have winners; that one is an exception. By the time you read this, there may be a winner. Then again, there might not be one. 
Looking at the Election Day just past and at the voting patterns of Americans this year, it seems the most important part ofthe balloting was what did not happen. What didn't happen was, in many cases, what wassupposed to hap­pen. 
Take the aforementioned gubernatorial race. As recently as Monday, ubiquitous pol­lsters said that Thompson had the race more or less sewn up, with a purported 20 percent edge over Steven<;t)n Pr>ll<:ters also made 
other claims about the election, many of which either failed to come true or did so in different proportions than predicted. 
Pollsters also came into question in the 1980 elections, as you may recall. Then the Ronald Reagan-Jimmy Carter election was supposed to be "too close to call." We all know what happened there. Reagan gained an electoral-vote landslide (although by percent· age ofthe vote, he garnered only about 51 per­cent, to 43 for Carter and six for John Anderson), and the pollsters were left with the proverbial egg on their faces. 
I listened to the election returns out of Il­
linois much of the night, and the question of 
pollsters was one the political analysts looked 
at throughout the night as results continued 
to trickle in. Several theories surfaced as to why the pollsters were wrong. 
It seems to this amateur observer that there are a couple of reasons why a supposedly statistically valid poll taken 24 hours before election day can be so offthe mark. One is the complacency factor. In this country, nearly half the registered voters sometimes do not vote. When their candidate is supposedly ahead by 20 percentage points, they figure their vote may not make much difference. This also works in the opposite way: when someone is supposedly down by 20 points, there is an added push by ward leaders and precinct captains for the trailing candidate. 
There also is the strong possibility that the pollsters are asking the wrong questions or using faulty methods. One analyst who had campaign experience (he ran a strong race against Senator Charles Percy in Illinois in 
1978 but lost) felt that pollsters could only accurately sense the mood of the country, 
A question of responsibility 
After a nice break, it's back to the grind again, in this column as well as in the books. For I have·another shot to take at you, joe Cool, you, Macho Man and Chic Woman, andyou, Snobby Intellectual. 
David M. Schorp 

Chautauqua in Faith 
An old roommate of mine who had asked the question, "Is it right that America has only 6 percent of the world's population, but consumes 35 percent ofits energy?" How can Americans justify this great disproportion of consumption? 
This country has been blessed with an abundance of natural resources. It is very foreseeable that such a clever being as man 
can put them to his good use. So, we might think to ourselves, it is a justifiable case of supply and demand. It has been to a great ex­tent the American scientist and engineer who has created the technologically innovative, in­dustrial economy which demands much energy. And what would the world be like without this country's technological efforts ­such "luxuries" as electric light, telephones, and the automobile? And perhaps more im· portantly, humanistically, what would the world be like without great contributions in 
the field ofmedicine? 

But supply and demand only partly answers our original question. Complete justification occurs only through the assumption of a responsibility for the well-being of other societies. It is the noble call ofthose men, who find themselves in a land of rich rescources and bountiful technology, to share their achievements with those who haven't such a 
high capacity for technology. How well is 
present-day  America  meeting  this  respon­ 
sibility?  
And  now,  let  us  draw  an  analogy  to  

ouselves. How fair is it for we young Catholic men and woman to attend a S9006 dollar-a­year university, have our meals cooked for us and our laundry washed for us, when many others our age can't even find a job? 
Consider our resources -we have sharp minds and wealthy parents. Our parents have worked hard as have we, for the opportunity ofattending Notre Dame. But there is another vital resource we must draw on if we are to focus the schooling of our talents, to assume true responsibitity with the knowledge we learn. This essential spiritual resource is, of course, our faith. 
We at Notre Dame might be considered "the cream of the Catholic crop." From the vast richness of our resources, our upbring-
state, city, or whatever on specific issues. They could not do the same for candidates be­cause too many variables are involved, espe­cially undecided voters. Many polls took the 
J 

undecided voters and assumed they would split 50-50 between the two major can­didates. Apparently this did not happen in this election -and probably never does. 
I also noticed that none ofthe surveys taken in the months prior to Election Day were done by well-known pollsters, like the Harris, Gallup, or Roper organizations, on their own. All ofthem were co-sponsored by some news­gathering organization like ABC News, CBS News, WBBM (Chicago), or The Chicago Sun­Time/s. Apoll indicating the projected results of an election is regarded as news, especially by the co-sponsoring group. 
Maybe it is news, but it should not be assumed as truth. As we have all discovered, the only poll that counts is the actual vote on the appointed day. 
ing, our intelligence, and especially from our Catholic Faith, we are called to a tremendous accountability. How well are Joe Cool, Snobby Intellectual, and our other friends meeting this responsibility? Is not role playing, material or self infatuation, and insin­cerity generally a shirking of this respon­sibility, a refusal to think? 
I am very biased toward Catholic faith. How 
comfortable is the atmosphere at Note Dame 
as compared to that at a large state school in 
the middle ofthe Bible Belt. My feeling is that 
ifthere is anyone in this country who can rise 
above materialism and the associated mis­
guided, insincere manners of living, it should, 
be one who has access to life's true wisdom. 
Acquiring faith is hard. It requires much in­
ner reflection -something that the superfi­
cial life ofJoe Cool and Co. makes even more 
difficult. But llS custodians of a great respon­
sibility, we must assume this burden. 
What happened to all those Pitt tickets? 
Earlier this semester Notre Dame students were treated to an apparent victory over the Irish bureaucracy when Student Body Vice President Bob Yonchak announced that he had obtained several hundred extra tickets for the Michigan State football game. 
Karen McCloskey 

Guest Columnist 
But at what cost victory? A few days before the beginningofmidsemester break, it was an­nounced that there would be no lottery for tickets to the University of Pittsburgh game to be played this weekend in Pittsburgh. No lot· tery means no tickets. 
Apparently because extra tickets were al­lotted for the MSU game, none are now available for the Pitt game. Who made the decision to eliminate the student eligibility for Pitt tickets? Is there a scapegoat in the situation? 
According to SBVP Yonchak, the entire 
situation was the result ofa misunderstanding 
between him and Ticket Office Manager Steve 
Orsini. When Yonchak approached Orsini in 
the spring of this year, he expressed the need 
for tickets to games which were closer to the 
Notre Dame campu~. He apparently did not 
realize that when he received extra tickets for 
one game, he was giving up the allotments for 
other away games. 

Orsini said he made it clear that he could not alter the University policy of ticket dis­tribution for away games. Therefore, he thought that it was clear to Yonchak that in receiving extra tickets to the MSU game, those for other away games would be sacrificed. 
Orsini has contacted officials at Pitt in 
search of additional tickets. Furthermore, he 
has assured students that should tickets be 
found, they will immediately be made 
available to them. 

It seems, therefore, that students will have to suffer for the carelessness of their elected leaders. At least for this year there will be no tickets available for the Pitt game. It is too bad that the mistake/misunderstanding was not realized until after the Michigan game when it was too late to correct the error. All tickets which had originally been set aside for stu­dents had been distribured in the alumni lot· tery. 
Why did Yonchak agree to give up tickets for other away games, including such an im­portant contest as Pitt? It probably was an honest oversight made in the eagerness to make good on a campaign promise. Hopefully, this experience will teach him to be more careful in the future. 
It is interesting that, in light ofthis situation, no controversy was stirred up. Yonchak com­
mented that he did not want "to raise a stink." 
He would rather "work with him (Orsini) 
than make him look bad or make me look 
bad." 
One thing that this situation did bring to light was the distribution of tickets. Of 5,000 tickets that are usually given to Notre Dame by its opponent, 200 are set aside for students. Approximately 4,000 are distributed to con­tributing alumni by the Ticket Office and the Alumni Office. The remaining tickets are divided between members of the football team and other University interests. 
Mr. Chuck Lennon, executive director of the alumni office, expressed interest in the equity of ticket distribution. He noted that more than 200 students are usually present at the away games. What is the source ofthe tick­ets which these students receive? Are these sources Notre Dame alumni or the the stu­dents' parents? Are students paying scalpers exorbitant prices to watch the hallowed Irish on the field? In an attempt to determine stu­dent attitudes toward ticket distribution, an informal survey will be distributed at the Pitt game. Students and alumni are being asked to stop by the alumni van outside the stadium in Pittsburgh on Saturday. 
What is striking about this situation is tha apparent willingness ofboth the ticket and the alumni offices to aid students in finding tick­ets. 
The common attitude on campus indicates that ticket distribution for away games is anti­student. Often, it appears that undergraduates are the last ones considered in the distribu­tion:-Yet perhaps there is not such a grand conspiracy to limit tickets for students. Al­though the system needs some modifying (the ratio of student/alumni ticket distribution is , 
I/20 for away games), there seems to be room for change. Both Lennon and Orsini seem open to suggestions. Whether any action will extend beyond the rhetoric remains to be seen. 
Action has been taken by Bob Yonchak. Yes, 
a mistake was made (perhaps it was not solely 
his ... was Orsini not less than eager to make 
more Pitt tickets available to alumni?) 
And while no one can begin blaming any particular person, this situation has given stu­dents the opportunity to voice their concerns. Ifyou are one ofthe lucky ones who were able to obtain tickets for the game this weekend, stop by the alumni van and fill out the ques­tionnaire. (We would all like to know how you got your tickets!) 
Even ifyou do not attend the game, contact one of the people involved in the ticket dis­tribution and let them know what you think of the situation. At this point it is up to the stu­dents to take action. 
Editorial Board
The Observer----~-=--=-Department Managet:s ... 
I;.,. O!JO,·rr t'l " ln mdependcn: m·w'f'.lf't-r f'ul->h,hl·,i I')' the >t<J<ienr, nf thc 
Editor-in-Chief.... .. Mi.:had Monk Business Manager .. .....Tony Aiello IIL\t'r,rty uf Notre D.tme du !..1< .Lrhl S.unt 1\l.tn··, ( ullegc It dt>e' r-ut lllH'"·Irtl) 
.HmwRing Editor... . ....... Ryan \'er Berkmoes Controller ............... ................. Eric ~chult. rdktt the pol" Ll'\ of the .ldmuJL\tr.lt•or, uf l'Lthn 111\titut<un The new' '' report 
Executi1•e Sews Editor.. . ....... Dave Dziedzic · Adl't>rlising Manager...... ................Chris Owen e.!·'' .t<<UrJtely Jnd ·'' ohJl\tLH-1)" ·'' l''~>"hk !,!,torul, fl'j'fl'\t'!lt the op•:l!Ull ol SJIC Executil'e Editor .... ...~ :\1argaret l'osmoe Production Manager........ ......... Maura .\1urphy 
.1 ITl.IJor•ty of the l.d•tor!JI llo.H,I ( u.nnwnl.lrll''· opul!O!l\ .w.! lt-t1l'f\ .tr<' the \'ll'W' .\jJOrts Editor .................... .... Chris :'1/eedles Circulation Manager.. .. .... Ray lnglin of th<Lr author\. ( oltnnn \f'.l' l' " J\ Jd.•hk tt> .dl memhu, ul the , ummun•t)· . .1nJ Editorials Editor ...................... Paul :\lcCinn Svstems Manager ..,. .. ...... Bruce Oakle~ th<· f rce expre,s•un ol \'Jf}'lllg op•n•um on ...unpu>. through letter>. '" encoungeJ. Fetltures Editor .... .................. ..Tari Hrown 
Photo Et1rt<1r .. Rachel Hlount 
Founded November 3, 1966
P.OJ\o:oo. Q. Nolrl' Danw. 1:\ ·-t<>SS(> <2 19) H9-S )05 
Thursday, November 4, 1982 -page 10
The Observer 



-~ -.. . . . -.~--' -· . 

~j)()f4tS~fJ~;~~i~~~=S======~=====================T=h=ur=sd=a=y,=N=o=verm=b=e=r=4,=1=98=2===p=ag=e=l=l 
By The Ohserl'er and The Associated Press 
ND volleyball team defeated Tri-State University 15-2, 15-2, and IU-PU Ft. Wayne 15-6, 15-5 in action yesterday at Tri-State. They travel Wednesday, Nov. 10, to face the Crusaders ofValparaiso. The regular season concludes Friday, Nov. 12 at home against IUSB. 
-The Obseroer. 

Gytnnastics Clubpractices have begun at the Rockne Memorial. They are held Monday thru Friday from 4 to 6 p.m. Anyone interested may attend. -The Observer. 
Field Hockeyteam participated in an eastern swing over break losing to Villanova University 4-2, Immaculata College 1-0, LaSalle College 5-0, and St. joseph's 7-1. NO's lone win was over Haverford by a 2-1 margin. They close out their regular season today against Michigan State at 4 p.m. at Alumni Field. -The Obseroer. 
Women's football playoffs wm be played 
tonight on Cartier Field. Breen Phillips meets Pasquerilla East at 6:30, and Farley meets Pasquerilla West at 7:30. Winners will play for the championship on Sunday at 7:30. -The Obseroer. 
ND Club ofPitt~hnrgh im·ite5 :11! ~otre Dame stu­dents, alumni and fans to a pep rally for Saturday's Pitt-Notre Dame game. The rally will be held Friday from 7 p.m. to 1 a.m. at the Pitts­burgh Sheraton at Station Square. Irish coaches, former stars, and the cheerleaders will be featured. -The Obseroer. 
Aerobic dancing workouts will resume .;ith the second session, beginning this week and lasting until December 15. Students can attend the Monday and Wednesday sessions, from 4 to 4:30p.m.; a $3.00 fee will be charged. Faculty and staff sessions will be held from 5:15 to 5:45 on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and a n 2.00 fee will be charged. -TThe Observer. 
Center Bill Walton of the San Diego Clippers, sidelined since 1980 with a painful foot injury, fractured his cheekbone during his first regular-season appearence in the Nation­al Basketball Association in more than two years, a spokesman for the club said yesterday. The 6-foot-11 center was injured Friday in the third quarter of the Clippers' season-opener with the Phoenix Suns when he scrambled for a loose ball and was accidentally elbowed in the face by teammate Michael Brooks, sid Jim Dunlap, public rela­tions director for the Clippers. Walton, 30, later returned to that game and team officials were optimistic that he would be able to play later this week, pending an examination of the injury by Walton's physician. -AP 
California Angels Don Baylor the Most 
Valuable Player in the American League in 1979, was one of four players who filed for free agency yesterday. Baylor, Baltimore Orioles catcher joe Nolan, Cleveland Indians outfielder Miguel Dilone and Oakland A's infielder Dave McKay all declared officially their intention to participate in Wednesday's free agent re-entry draft, the; Major League Players Association said. Baylor was in the first free-agent class in 1976, when he left the Oakland A's and signed a six-year contract with the Angels. -AP 
...Rights 
continuedfrom page 12 
The NCAA policy was challenged in court by the Universities of Ok lahoma and Georgia, which led ~ group of major college footbal' powers seeking the right to sell the· lucrative television rights to their games on their own. 
The NCAA includes about 50(; member colleges and universitie that field football teams and 18 schools in the Division I category c· major teams. The NCAA has televi sion contracts with ABC, CBS an0 the Turner cable broadcasting sy~ 
tern. 

The television contracts wert' worth $29 million in 1978 and ar expected to be worth 172 million ir 1985, theJustice Department said. 
The major powers dissatisfieu. with the NCAA rules which restricted the number of their televised games formed the College Football Association in the 1970~ and negotiated a contract with NBC 
The NCAA said the contract v; 
olated its by-laws and has threatened 
sanctions against the CFA schools. 
The Justice Department said such sanctions would devastate an ath­letic program, and make it impos­sible to recruit quality athletes. 
The Observer will accept classifteds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4 30 p.m. However. classtfieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the busmess day pnor to insertion. All classtfieds must be prepatd. 
etther 1n person or through the mat\. 
Classifieds 

3 A1des needed Champaign-Urbana ISU. FREE BEER or 2 PITT tix (or both) I NEED 6 GAS arid alllhe help I can }!'>t#-0 t•&-? tlrk 0 '/It viH ua vln((
Need 4 Penn St. GA·s or Stud Tkts

NOTICES Weekend of Mich1gan game. Nov. 6. Call wanted. Call1374 ge11n finding them. They don't have to be S vbN AobbN En• r ·~~'#k ','
desperately Call Jim 277-1773$$$$$$ 

Al282-1630. together 7947 Ask for Kathy THANKS f"xf: b'kg s w? •o T"la:JI I#' g W 'II:J Wanted: 2 GAs to Penn St. Name your .W 'd qv.· 11"11' 'la:A jg_-(;,...,._."1" '•'
NEED CREDIT? Need t stud. t1ckel for Penn Stale Call
NEED AIDE to U. of Ill. this weekend. Will price. 6849 after 1 0 pm NEED PENN ST GAs BIG TIME! $$$ t""", E-'•'-"bllJflt>y Ja:w'l A.;·~
Information on receiving Visa, Master­Kev1n at 1441
share expenses. Marya 126617 CALL 1627 s\o\-• 'y1 Ajg1C .!<'~' ,.._. 'Ja:t""lo card, with no credit check Other cards 
NEED 4 PITT TIX CALL 1175 m '-# b0 'yk((lw<pdrs' oGiorrn I
available. Free brochure call Personal NEED 1.2. OR 3 STUDENT OR GA
NEED AIDE TO MINNEAPOLIS MN. (OR help need Penn St lix student or GA Call ?#~;g~g;l-> -#k-f·l< Tgt -#lo'~
Credit Service: (602) 946-6203 ext. 3648 PENN STATE TIX. MIKE x3571 
AREA) FOR THANKSGIVING. WILL NEED PENN STATE GA TIXCALL 1173 Steve 8670 or 8681 ·1R;s'-~~"#~s' ',,...._ 'M/>"1 SPLIT COST. CALL STEVE 1027 w-# s' · t••,.,..·.r• k"Y Jtg;t•'O
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 THE AMERICAN JUGGLE-0 S ---In­
I NEED 6 GA'S and all the help I can WE NEED PENN ST TJCKETS CALL diana s finest (only?) protess1onal jug­RIDERS NEEDED TO PURDUE LEAVE get in find1ng them. They don t have to be 
DAVE OR DON 1850 APEX ROCKS
TYPING: C:X-LEGAL SECRETARY 272-gling/mime/comedy troupe Will be
FAI NOV 5 CALL MARK 8332 together. 7947 Ask for Kathy. THANKS. 
5337. favonng Notre Dame du Lac with thelf 
I NEED PITT,PENN ST GAs $$$CALL Nickle's Bar
presence the weekend of the PENNNeed riders to Knoxville leaving FAI NOV NEED PENN ST GAs BIG TIME! $$$ BRENDAN 3207 

Saturday from Hl-12p5 Call Lloyd at 239-6111 CALL 1627 STATE GAME Help bring TRUE cuhure 
lo South Bend with STUDENT or GA 

NEED 6 PENN STATE GAs. CALL 289-Drink specials and DANCINGII
TICKETS!

Need ride to Md./D.C. area at Thanksgiv­help neeil Penn St tix student or GA Call 
3538 Ing. Share usual. Andy. 1246 Steve 8670 or 8681 JOHN MCGRATH -YOUR BOUND
LOST/FOUND 
EIGHTH row RUSH tix 30$ or best offer 


VOLUME IS FINALLY DONE. YOUNEED 1 STUDENT OR GA PENN ST. 
x-8594 TICKET. PLEASE CALL RICH AT 1758 
WE NEED PENN ST TICKETS CALL KNOW WHERE YOU CAN PICK IT UP. 
LOST: White folder with Observer logo on 

DAVE OR DON 1850 SHIRLEY
front cover and white legal pad inside. Need 3 PENN ST GAs Will Pay B1g
PLEASE! .NEED PENN ST. STUDENT
Also green Sa1nt Mary's spiral notebook Bucks Call Pete 8682 
FOR SALE 
I NEED PITT,PENN ST GAs $$$CALL TIX DESPERATELY. Will pay$, call B1ll Stick 1t to ·em Steves!
of news class notes. Lost on Fnday the BRENDAN 3207 

287-3538.
15th. Help! Anyone w1th info call Margaret 40-YARD LINE PENN STATE TIX BP IS ready to ron A•n't no stoppm us now! 
at (284)4316 or leave message at Ob­Young liberal will sell h1s pnnc1ples and 2 
USED BOOKS Bought, Sold, Searched NEED 6 PENN STATE GAs. CALL 289-NEED 2 or 4 PENN ST GAs Mike 3261 or 
server office (239-5303). 40-yard line Penn Slate GAs for the best 
ERASMUS BOOKS. Tues-Sun, 12-6. 3538 3263 offer. Make h1m bel1eve in Capitalism by
1027 E. Wayne. One Block South of GO BEASTS'
LOST: Light brown Jockey Jackel in AB mak1ng your best offer by Fnday the 5th. 
Eddy-Jefferson Intersection. What was that? You said you wanted to HELP a poor pre-~ whose genetics
line the Fnday before Break. If you have Call Tom at 1219 and share the wealth 
become Instantly rich? Then buddy. I m Illes got Into the radiation lab, graw to BLUE EYES thanks for BUFFALO -I or heard of anyone who may have found it 
FOR SALE: Girl's size 9 suede jacket. your ticket. as long as y-all have two for be eight feet tall, got even for me m1ss BUGS -How d1d you move that
could you please call1741 or bnng it by WANTED DESPERATELY 1 PENN ST
Marya 1266/7. me. Two Penn st. GAs, thai is, and you watching them In their private I able? 
328 Grace before it gets cold outs1de STUD OR GA.CALL WILL 282-1026 
know my massive mounds of money will "chromosomal duplication activities" by calling me a voyeur and then
FOR SALE 1 Pitt GA. Or Will trade for be more than enough to make you WISh to THEO MAJORS: NOV 7. SUNDAY
To the person who took my TIME HELP!' NEED PITT TICKETS! PLEASE
Penn State GA. Call Kim al288-1917. sell them to you. Call Extremely Well-To­proceeding to EAT MY PARENTS MASSATFARLEYCHAPEL, 12:30PM
magazine from the cushion nght inside CALL SUE AT 2912 
Do Cindy Lou ----lou at 2948 PENN STATE G.A. TIXI Not only is thethe door to the pay cat on Tuesday--hey! I 
FOR SALE: Girl's size 9 suede jacket. College of Sc1ence taking me to court. but Cindy and Dan Belated happy anmver­
wasn·t finished reading it yet! Just be­I need 3 Penn St sturlent tix. Call SMC
Marya 1266/7 Desperately need 1 student tic. for visiting my parents will shoot me. I need tix! Call sary! And so I'm not late next year--happy 
cause it was on that cush1on d1dn·t mean it 4292
glflfriend for Penn. St. $$$ Call Jeff at Laune at 7730 or 7983! 3rd anmversary! I m fortunate to know was free for the taking! If you want to 
FOR SALE 1 Pitt GA Or will trade lor 1026. such wonderful people God bless both of redeem yourself you can drop it outside 
Penn Slate GA. Call K1m at 288-1917. NEED TWO TICKETS TO PENN STATE you. R1ch 
my room. My address 1s on the label since Wanted:2 PENNSTGA·s. Willing to out­

PERSONALS

GAME. WILL PAY$$$!!! CALL LINDA AT I'm the one who pa1d for the subscnptiOn 
bid other offers. Call Ed at 1791 
TOMASSO, LISA D. and USI1 G., Thanks tor be1ng such terrific tnends Mon· 
4418. 
green umbrella,wood trim, yellow Polo TICKETS NEED TICKETS FOR N.D. PITT. CALL NEED TWO PITT iiCKETS. CALL 284-So what il D1v1ne Child keeps losmg? day mght I owe you guys one! Maripal emblem with ·Jeame· monogrammed in 

GREG 233-8091 You·re always a winner' HAPPY
51150R284-5150
yellow underneath the Polo Lost 11-2-82 BIRTHDAY. BRIDGET BAKER!!!! 

Riders needed to Cleveland leavingin South D1mng Hall. PLEASE CALL!!!!! 
I need 2 PENN STATE GA.'s Call Patty BIG BUCKS FOR 3 GAS FOR PENN WE LOVE YOU AND APPRECIATE noon fn. Nov 5 share usual expenses call 
WILL PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENN STATE GA TIX. CALL 312·565-5959 x283-794 7. Thanks. STATE (FOR DAD, SIS & ME) CALL YOU!!!! Nancy 284-4389Jeanie x3891 

Your Mercy-grad groupee 
3819 LONGLEY. 
COLLECT AND ASK FOR STEVE 
BIG BUCKS DELUXE as reward for those 81-82 Fore1gn Studies tnvia qwz no.t. PENN STATE GAs. Call MATT 277-45 NEED 2 GAS 1!. STUD PENN STATE LSAT Rev1ew for Dec 4th exam beg1ns Who needed an ambulance to get out ofFOR RENT 73. Will pay first offer so CALL NOW . TIX! BIG BUCKS. CALL 1552 Sunday Nov. 7th. Call Stanley Kaplan Zipfer Keller at Chnstmas 81?
GOLLY JEEPERS! I need two PENN Educ. Cen·ler now to enroll-232-2366'
STATE GAs. big brother would like 10 see a game with Pop. Call DAVE al1165. 
HELP! NEED 4 PENN STATE GAS! HELP' GRANDPARENTS DEFECTED Ail the leaves are brown and the sky is PLEASE CALL SHEILA 289-9304 FROM RUSSIA IN TIME TO SEE PENN THEO Majors: Informal coffee hour w1th grey but I'm still gonna Twist and ShoutStudent Housmg Clean -Safe. 
Josephine Ford today at 5 pm in 331 because everybody must get stoned$100/mo. 291-1405. 
ST. NEED 4 PENN ST TIX VERY BAD­Need 2 GAs 1!. 2 student tix for Penn St. 
My old man will top your best offer for 4 LY!CALLDAVEAT 1914 . o·shag Come meet your fellow Saturday mghl w1th an LA. Woman who is 
First game ever for my family 277-0593 Pitt tickets ..call8947 theologians. Mother's Uttle Helper in The White RoomNeeded to share rent I need 1 Penn State Ticket (GA or Stu­I need Penn Stale tickets! Student or GA.
Unfurnished Apt located on Jefferson 

Sis and her RICH Harvard friends com1ng dent) Call Mary Pat at6967 or 6955 THE PAC WILL HAVE NOWHERE TO Going to PITTSBURGH· th1s weekend?
Mulissa x1308 and S. 26th St. GR male student wants to 

out to see a real football game Need PSU RUN (or throw) TONIGHT WHEN THE Don 1 forget: NO-PITT PEP RALLY at theshare 2-bedroom apt $120 month plus Tix. Chris 1181 I Need 2 PENN STATE GA·s. Please call B P ANIMALS CORNER THEM OM Sheraton Inn, Station Square (Downtown electncity. 234-9599 HELP! Need two PITT GAs. Please call 
Jefl'at 1764 CARTIER' Pgh), Fn. Nov 5, 7pm-tam. And the Blar­

Nancy 1880. HELP! I NEED 4 PENN ST. GAs -CALL ney Stone or the Pre and Post-Game fes­
BRYAN 8789 I Need PENN STATEStuaeDt T1x. Please The "LIGHTNING BOLT" will triumph tiv•t•es at the University Club on Sat. NovHELP! Haven t seen parents 1n 3 tomghl GO B. P 1 
call Jeff at 1764. 6 See ad for details. 
mmonths and won·1 see them til
WANTED 

NEED PENN ST TIX CALL MIKE 287­Chnstmast1me unless I can get some 
4225 PITTSBURGH OR BUST ITUBE BUST MR MOJO RISIN PITTSBURGH.... ND-PITT PEP RALlY atPENN STATE GA. s. Please reuun1te me Saturday mghl 
IF I DONT FIND ONE PITT GA. CALL Sherat1on in Station Square on Fti. Nov 5,with my parents. Kathy x6973. Thank you. 
NEED 2PENN STATE GASCAllx1610 KEITHAT1169. PLEASE Blarney Stone on Sat. Nov 6, and the Uni· 
Desperately need nde to P!tt vs. N 0 I am the Lizard King I can do anything
ASK FOR RICH vers1ty Club on Sal. Nov. 6. Corne and en­
game Will leave anyt1me Share ex­Saturday night penses Thereze -284-4298 HELP! I need 4 Penn Sl GA t1x. Call Bnan 
For Sale One Penn St. Studeny ticket $35 i"Y the tun Sponsored by the NOtre Dame We need Penn State GAs. Call Dave Call Pault947 or 1945 Club of Pittsburgh (AI'lmn1 Club). 
at 255-3287. 

Finally, Today is the day! Swtcase to 3 R1des needed Champaign-Urbana ISU AMSTERDAM. Dont m1ss the meeting, 3673 (bestlale) or Tim 3667 
$$$Will pay BIG BUCKS for 2 Penn St. Hey Popeye: We want a reply NOW!! The Weekend of M1Ch1gan game. Nov 6 Call Need 2 G.A tix for Penn State game 
TONIGHT 8:30 PM SMC Clubhouse Al282-t630. Bnng your rabbit s foot 
Neea tw~ GAs for Penn State. $$$are no GAs$$$ Call John al1751 Olive Oyt Terrorizers Parents want to see first NO game problem. Caii Mike at 3626 
Please call Nancy 4449 SMC NEED 4 GAs FOR PENN STATE. CALL Jo, Broo, 1!. le: Are those REAL, or are
NEED RIDE to U. of Ill. th1s weekend Will Skoal, Copenhagen, Happy Days ..GO
FREE BEER or 2 PITT tix (or both) KATHY AT 1833. they jUSt lor tenn1s? Why don't we call and share expenses Marya 1266/7 Wanted: 4 GAs for Penn St. $$Call Sue PW!!! Blow smoke on Farley tonite' And
wanted. Call1374 fmd out! Love. your fellow harasser. 
x5429 (smcl $$ fan club members. its .. Come in a PWJoe·s friends burned out! He now has 4

NEED RIDERS TO NEW JERSEY-NY!! Football Uniform Nite." Gray and Blue will 
Wanted: 2 GAs to Penn St. Name your padded RUSH tix 4sale Best offer x3471 St. Ed. s Centennial Woek.. .. . November 
Leavmg Thurs. 1114 or Fn. 1115--Call We n.;ed Penn State GAs. Call Dave be in vogue. WEST IS BEST!!! 
price. 6849 a~er 10 pm. 13-21. . TALK IT UPIIIIIII
3673 (best late) or TICil 3667 Need PENN ST. Tix real bad. Will pay Amy -289-4664 SELF-DEFENSE CLINIC thurs. Nov 4,
NEED 4 PITT TIX CALl 1175 "Living the Gospel Values 1n the
NEED RIDE TO U OF I CHAMPAIGN Need lwOGAslorPenn State $$$are no GOOD BUCKS for 2 student TIX and 2 7:00 gymnastiCs room of the Roct< Worl<pface," a lecture by John Puneta.
THIS WEEKEND RICH 1739 problem. Call Mike at 3626. GAs. Call Gaty a11152. 
Spon~ored by the Women·s Caucus 

NEED PENN STATE GA TIX CALL 1173 Stapleton Lounge. Friday. Nov. 5, 3:30 

The Observer Thursday, November 4, 1982 -page 12 
...Tickets 
continuedfrom page 16 
in December, UCLA in January, and Indiana in February, we would have a much more attractive package. But when you take a look at it from the scheduling side, we're playing a lot ofteams on the road that we played at home last year." 
Phelps cites the scheduling dif­ficulties with DePaul and Marquette, Notre Dame's two Midwest Catholic rivals, along with North Carolina State and Maryland, the annual At­lantic Coast Conference opponents, as causes for the unusual home slate. The Irish play all of these teams on the road this season, yet all will play at the ACC neJ~:t year ifthey still par­ticipate in the "home-and-home" agreements. 
Problems also arose from teams such as Michigan, Michigan State and San Francisco that had to be dropped offthe schedule for various reasons. 
For 

"I would like to be in a situation where we have seven power games at home and seven power games away," adds Phelps, "but those other 
I4 games  are  also very important  
games."  
But  lost  in  the shuffle  is what  

could be a very good basketball team. The Irish return All-American 
John Paxson, who Phelps calls "the best guard in the country," and also display five freshmen who could 
become very good basketball players. The Notre Dame recruiting class was ranked fifth in the nation byStreet and Smith. 
"If they (the students) don't want to see John Paxson, who to me is as good as a Sampson or a Ewing for his experience and has a chance to be Player of the Year, and if they don't want to see five freshmen who I think will turn out to be good bas­ketball players, that's their choice," states Phelps. "I'm not going to 
0~
'HIAIR ps' \ 

\~u~ L5=~-I ---­
\~-·o \bv·• I
00'-C--·-• 
No appointment I Open 7 days daily9-8 Sat.9-6Sun11-5 
Grape Road Plaza Grape and Day Roads
@REDI<EN 
277-7946 Hair must be shampooed day of cut 
KEG 
Compare our Prices Including Ice, Cups and don 't forget Deposit charges!!!!!! 
UNITED 
argue with them. 
"I would rather have 3000 
(student fans) who believe in the 
team than have 5000 be sold and 
have 2000 who don't show up." 
The team lost only one letterman 
to graduation, and won 8 of its last 
I6 games aftera 2-9 start. 
"The students carried us the 
second half of last season," says 
Phelps. 
"If you believe in the team, and 
you want this team to become a 
good team that could end up in post­
season play, then you go no matter 
who we're playing." 
After Student ticket distribution is over on Friday, season ticket ap­plications will be accepted from the general public. Deadline for these sales will be November I 0. Tickets remaining after this date will be sold on an individual basis starting the next day. Individual sale of tickets has been avoided by university offi­cials in the past. 
Domer Six-mile Run Application onp.7 

Milwaukee Brewers pitcher Pete Vuckovich yesterday was awarded the American League's C)' Young Award given annually to the league's top pitcher. ( APPhoto). 
•

WEEKEXD EVEXTS • 
ATTHENAZZ 
• 
• THURSDAY, :NOV. 4 ''Miscellaneous" Jeff Harrington, •• 9 • 10:30 Patty Tuite, Thersa Scott, Mary Jlvans, Carole Clark •• 10:30. 12:o0 The End : FRIDAY, :NOV. 5 John Kennedy and Friends 9 • 10:30 : 
Irish Music 
e SATURDAY, NOV. 6 "Shaper ·Shifter" 9 · 9:30 • : -written and presented by David Pierson -Garrick • • Sundown 9:30 -11:30 : 
~PPLICATIONS ARE NOW AVAILABLE 
UNTIL WED. NOV.IO 
for the 
Movie lottery 
Pick up applications in S. U. Offices. Any questions please contact Gina Rohrer. 
SPECIAL 

Take Eddy St South from campus­over the bridge -Now count 5 stoplights-past new police & fire sta· tion -Cross RR. & turn right-YOU HAVE ARRIVED!! Corner Sample & Chapin 287-1067 

''The Beer Co.'' 
16gal KEG $2675 STROH -A -PARTY 
Sgal KEG $17°0 &:~F~Lv 
CFAgains powerful ally in TVbattle 
WASHINGTO:'II (AP) The 
Justice Department yesterday lined up with major college football powers that are challenging the ex­clusive right of the National Col­legiate Athletic Association to market televised football games. 
The department said it agreed with a federal judge who ruled that the NCAA restrictions violate federal anti-trust laws. 
"The NCAA's restrictions ... were properly found to be an un­reasonable restraint of trade," said the department in a legal briefflied with the U.S. I Oth Circuit Court of Appeals. 
The NCAA is asking the appeals court to overturn a ruling on Sept. I5 by U.S. District CourtJudge Juan 
G. Burciaga of New Mexico. 
The Justice Department, in its friend-of-the-court brie~ said it agreed with Burciaga that the NCAA's television policy deprives its members ofthe right to compete in the sale oftelevision rights_ 
See RIGHTS, page 11 


MAGTRONIC"" FOOTBALL IS a challenge to man·s besl MENTAL1d PHYSICAL SKILLS a compeliiNe actiOn garnp piJyed w1lh excep!tOnal real.sm m ar1 actual SladltJm m VOtJ' 
nome 

W1!h lfle '""'s'ble powe• ot mdglrtliSffi from under the MAGTRONIC. TABlE '/'lll make magnehc.ally ai1ve 3-0IUEN· SJONAL players 1un anododgi: pertormrealtSitcally on sunutateo turt ei'IQage eacl'l othe' 10 blOCks ana tackles so PHYSICAL you 
FE£lthe ,mpact' 
Scflmmage starts w1lh lht actual snap olthe t>aiP lhrtiiS o1 real !W:I>all trom ktCk·otltopassanCmterceptiOn llfldgoats tumbles mat1 scramtl!e lor recnverv' 
Cemplrlr ••11'1 38 GJ• h~e ll••nr IIHtb luhlra 
Eleclrtllt Stllrt~llfl & PA Syslea lttHKkly&SKtllablmiiJWI S I 19 91 lo 1199 91 lojor CrHil C11•< 

Available 11om tactorv.:!. e~tCtus•ve ca1a1ogues only 
For tree brochure pi'!Ont t305t692-9176 or wnle 
·MAGNETIC &AMES. IN~. Dept N00-102 100 N E Do"e Hwy Stuan Fl 33494 
" 

The Observer Thursday, November 4, 1982 -page 13 

Despite losing starters 
Belles defeat I.U.S.B. Titans 
By MARY SIEGER 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Last night in the Angela Atheletic Facility, the Saint Mary's Belles defeated the l.lJ.S.B. Titans 15·3, 12­1 5, 14-16, 1 S-6, 15-6 in a close and exciting contest. 
The Belles were able to claim their latest victory with the loss of three veteran starters, Ann Boutton, Loret Haney and team captain Peg Pieschel due to injuries earlier this season. Last evening's victory im· proved the Belles record to 10-11·1. 
The loss of these key players has seriously affected the team's perfor­mance, and in a brief period of time, has transformed a team with a win· ning record and high expectations for the state tournament into a team with a losing record that narrowly lost its hid to the tournarnem. 
Belles Head Coach Erin Murphy is upset about not receiving a bid to the tournament, hut believes that the other members of the team have received essencial experience. 
"We've made the state tourna· ment every year i:1 the four years I've been here except this year. Now our goal is to win the next few games so we can have a winning season,"said Murphy. 
'Our freshmen have gained more con­fidence and know­ledge this year which will help us nextyear' 
Last evening's performance against the Titans reflected the transformation of some of the fresh­man players into better, more ex­perienced players, who are becomming more accustomed to their court positions. "There is an adjustment from high school to col· legiate ball; our fre~hmen have gained more contldence and knowledge'this year which will help us next vear," commented Murphy. 
Sever~! members of the team were also disappointed about not receiving a tournament bid. "\X'e missed the tournament by only one 
...Murray 
continuedfrom page 14 
Ifthe kid wants to know what he'll get of a more practical nature, a coach can tell him: "You'll get a var· sity letter, and they'll sew it on for you. You'll get free uniforms and laundering and, if you break a leg, we'll pay for the hospitalization, also, the crutches. Of course, we'll hire someone to take your entrance exams for you." 
"For all of this what have I got to do?" the kid may ask. "Well," the coach will soothe, "You practice four to six hours a day, including meetings and training table, skull sessions and calisthentics. We have a week of spring practice, and a fall practice. You report in summer before school opens. And you have to take two hours ofweight training every day all year." 
There'll be a long pause, after which the blue-chipper will say, 
"And what do I get out of all this?" The coach will say, "The thrill of doing or dying for dear old alma mater. The fun of hearing the school fight song as you're on your own one-yard line when Notre Dame has the ball and a 275-pound offensive front. You get to go to all the pep 
rallies, see all the bonfires." 
The kid will shake his head, "Thanks, but I think I'll get a job in a foundry instead." Whereupon the coach will scream, "What will become ofthe Pac-1 0 ifyou do that?! The Big-8?" And the kid will say, "Have you ever thought ofsuiting up students?" 
Who knows? We might get back "watch-charm guards," "Pony back­fields," "Mighty mites." Cotton War· buttons at halfback, and the guys who run the wrong way in the Rose Bowl of show up late for games be­cause they got stuck in lab at the Physics Building. 
• a
!'.. 
.~=nee~ Fo~uttoe 
~4. 1982wiflwi&ceM See Ligge\t. -See Le6t fleiiMUJl e6 See yea'l. lice9ua/8-fW£ ~'fat1UKli Wee.k~ fe. ~,.DUll lwcaiU!d gaef&.
• {~. {~"' 

~-------------------------,
I GRAND OPENING!!!!! 1 I tJ.olis~ tJrinctJli;;tria • 
I Serving Polish Style & Italian Pizza 
I!FREE DELI\t~RY27"2-aoao ! 
I 18061 So Bend Ave. $2°0 off 17in II 1f2 Block West of $1 500ff 14in 1 I Ironwood on SR 23 $1°0 0ff 12 in 1 
IL.NOTGOOD WITH OTHER COUPONS OR DISCOUNTS J 
he Notte Dame financial Institution 
series 

TonightII 8pm Library Aud. 
Roget E. Sirk -Chairman andCEO 
mettill Lynch and Co. 
--•Sponsoredby Finance Club--~~ 
game and it's hard to get motivated without lots of self-discipline and self-motivation." commented veteran player Marianne Viola. 
There are several more players on the team with some experience, who were instrumental in last night's victory. Miki Maternowski and Rita Schubert "really hustled and did their best jobs all year," said Murphy. 
The more experienced players were instrumental in offering court direction to the freshmen. "There is lots of support for the freshmen from the veterans," said Mary Gar· vey. 
The Belles had a difficult time with the Titans during the second and third games, "We were slow starting hut we really came together in the end," commented Viola. 
On Monday the Crusaders of Val· paraiso will journey to Saint Mary's for the Belle's tlnal home of the season. 
Coach Rich Hunter and the Irish scccer team will travel to Toledo Saturdayfor thefall soccerfirzale. Notre Dame completed its home season yesterday u•ith a 12-0 win over Bethel College on Alumni Field. (Photo by Rachel Blount). 

***************** 
! NEED A. ;: 
~ * 
! BAND? : 
: for parties, weddings, etc. : 
it coil... * ~ BANDS *
i~ UNLIMITED !
• • ....In,lclftCJ * 
: 233-5727 : 
k****************' 

MBA 
MINORITY 
FELLOWSHIPS
Dine among the antiques and enjoy our view of the new downtown! 
Reservations Appreciated 234·9000 121 South Niles South Bend 

notR€Oame CLUB 0~ PittSBURGh (alumni cluB) 
welcomes eveRyone to: 
· notR€~m~-Q•tt Q§P RMLY 
7:00 pm·1:00am ~RIOc\Y. nov€mB€R8.1982 -.u<>•u..:vvffi, Sh€Rc\tOn c\tSt.\tiOn SQUc\R€ OowntoWA-P<;a. 
\dS~S€S!;mE:m;: $3.00 ~Ofl stU0€ntS $2.00 With n .0. 1.0.'S $5.00 ~OQ c\l)U1tS Cash Bc\Q, mus1c, Oanc€ ano RaH1€i

ano 

nQ-Pill5~b ~~B6Wl1Qn 
sat nov€mB€R 6.1982 Bl.c\Rn€Y ston€ R€StauRant 30 (fuant c\v€. €tna. pa.. 15 m10. ~ROm Prtt sta01um 
sqOQ€ anO ~t€R th€c,am€ BUS S€QVIC€ tO anO ~ROm th€ c,am€.$5.00 SP€CialiUISh Su~~€t anO IUISh €Tlt€RU.In,... ·t $5.95 
R€S€uvatlons anO 1n~oumat1on 781·1666 
ano 
":1VIti€S

QR€1jam€ ano QOSt:<JaTT•~­
-

satuRoav nov€mS€R 8.1982 th€ ur. ~rty CLUB 123 UOJV€USitV PW:€ OaklanO, a shout walk~· thtt 
PR€~€ post~€ casn BaQ op€n at 1 0:30 ash BaQ until 6:~' Buff€t $10.00 
nO ClUB 0~ PlUSBIJtK;h IS PROUO tO PROVIO€ .l )c\ffi..Pc\Ck.€0 W€€k.€nO 0~ €XClt€ffi€ntc\110 €n]C ·nt 
COffi€JOin th€ ~Un! 
The Consortium for Graduate Studv in Management. a six university program designed to speed the entry of minority managers into business, offers fellowships to blacks. hispanics. and Native Americans. Full tuition for two years of study and stipends of $3000 the first year and $1500 the second year are awarded to qualified mmority students interested in the Master of Busmess Admin­IStration degree programs at Indiana University. Un1vers1ty of North Carolina, University of Rochester. University of Southern California. Washington University m St. Louis. or University of Wisconsm-Mad1son. The program is sponsored by over 150 corporations and foundations who seek to expand the pool of qualified minority managers Undergraduate study 1n business or economics IS not essent1al-all interested persons should apply A personal interview and U S citizenship are required For more information and application materials. write to: Dr. Wallace I. Jones. Consortium for Graduate Study in Manage­ment. 101 N. Skinker Blvd., Campus Box 1132. St. Louis, MO 63130.  
___ Katie Helm will be on campus to tali with interested studei\IS. Date: November 5, 1982 Time: 1 pm to 5 pm Place: Placement Office  
Consortium for Graduate Study in Management  

__i___ ---­

"' 
The Observer Thursday, November 4, 1982-page 14 

Some NFL players participated in All-Star games during the players strike, but others like Patriots defensive back Rick Sanford found morepleasant ways to pass the time. That's Rick's wife Sber­ri playing football with him in their backyard. jim Murray bas something to say about the strike in his column at right. (AP Photo). 
Attendanceof680 
Football players ~en 't: enough 
Now that the striking football players have drawn magnificant throngs of680 paid to their All-Star games. perhaps it is time for the resif-lent ideologies ofthe game 

to consider just what a house ofcards pro football really is. Not to long ago, 680 people would not have been The Best of Jim Murray considered that depressing a statistic. 
But that was before the sport found out something Hollywood learned decades ago -the product is not enough. It needs another dimension of hype, fan magazines, gossip columns, personal appearances, press agentry. You can't trust word of mouth. Ask Louis 
B. Mayer. 
Hollywood crumbled when the stars it created took 
over the business. They scuttled the industry, took over 
distribution, production and put the seven-year con­
tract out of business. They made the term "movie 
mogul" obsolete. A mogul became a bump in the snow 
at Aspen. 
But never did they go so far as to propose a wage scale for the industry based on seniority. They never argued that the best friend should make as much as the hero in the film. There was always a fine distinction between the Screen Actors Guild and the Screen Extras Guild. 
Just because he had been there 20 years didn't entitle a spear-carrier to a cut ofthe gross. The grips were impor­tant To the picture, but they didn't sell tickets. Direc­tors might share the loot, but they were the coaches in that league. 
But the most crippling effect was due to the lack of development of young talent. There were no longer staffs of crack portrait photographers, no crews of media-wise publicists, no drama coaches, talent scouts, make-up men, scripts tailored to fit images or build up 

PresentingHighBias IIand theUltimateTape Guarantee. 
Memorex presents High Bias II, a tape so extraordinary, we're going to guarantee it forever. 
We'll~ life-like sound. Because Permapass:M our unique oxide bonding process, locks eachoxideparticle-eachmusicaldetail-onto thetape. So music sUzys live. Not justthe 1stplaor. Or the lOOOth. But forever. 
We'll ~ethe cassette. YII'U fORfVER 1010111, 
Every facet of our cassette is engineered to protect the 
ISITliVE 
tape. Our waved-wafer improves tape-wind. Silicone-treatedrollersinsure smooth, precise tape alignment. ' Housing is made strong by a design unique to Memorex. ~~
DR IS IT 

We'll guaranteethemforever. I~-©~ 
Ifyouare everd.1Ssat1sfied with MemorexHighBias II, n--:·
MIMDRI 
mailus the tape and we'll replace it free. • .&... 
new stars. Their talent pipelines were severed. Ifthe NFL should similarly dismantle the fabric ofpro football as we know it, we might find a parallel there. 
The trickle-down effect should be massive. It may have more effect on college football if the professional game deteriorates. 
Consider what a college recruiter tells a blue-chip prepper or a high schooler today. "Son 11 of last year's lettermen are players in the NFL. The entire offensive line of the Green Bay Packers, the defensive secondary of the Cowboys, and four of the Pro Bowl wide receivers last year came out ofour program." 
You don't need convertibles orgirls to dangle in front of a prospect if you can't deal in visions of an eventual multi-million dollar pro contract. 
Imagine, if you will, what will happen ifthat incentive is removed. The assistant coach in charge of recruit­ment approaches the blue-chipper with the dazzling prospect of an education, the heady appeal of learning to read and write. I mean, what can he say? "Just think kid, you'll get to learn all the Popes and their proper Roman numerals. You get to memorize all of Napoleon's campaigns and the dates of the War of the Roses. You'll be able to tell your friends all the details of the Louisiana Purchase!" 
See MURRAY, page 13 

RESTAURANT 
15 REASONS: 

Broiled Seafood Platter Charbroiled Halibut Steak Charbroiled Salmon Shrimp De Johnge Charbroiled Swordfish Walleye Pike Red Snapper Trout Ala Mer Stuffed Flounder New England Scrod Rock Lobster Pan Fried Rainbow Trout Gulf Coast Shrimp Stuffed Shrtmp Pan Fried Frog Legs 
5:30 Nightly All D1y Sund1y 100 Center Complex 

700 L.W.W., MIIIIIWIU 259-9925 




... ' ' l 'l'f 
Ihe~rver================~==================== 
T0 d~x=============T=h=u~r=sd=a=y=,N=o=ve=m=b=er=4=,=1=9=8=2==p=a=g=e=~=s
Doonesbury 
HtY,ML, I'MilMtt

!~ ~ \ 


Simon 

Aspirin Man 
· 




ACROSS 26 Round 2, 52 Seed cover 24 Kitchen 1 Diamond In tennis 53 Northern items features 30 Poe's fear· 56 Purchases 25 Harrow's 6 Asked fulhouse 57 Legal point rival 10 Fragrant 34 Nebraska 60 Partof 26 Garden ointment river the globe Implement 14 Once-35 -sure 62 Blemish 27 Ms. Glasgow 
time 37 Pie -mode 64 Klndof 28 Lily 15 Work ofart 38 "-Well machine 29 Musical 16 Woodwind That Ends ..." 65 Finished study 17 Later 39 -bath 66 ACantor 31 Attacked 18 Martin's 41 Entrance 67 Klddles 32 Select 
home 42 Andrea -68 First place group20 Grid scores: Sarto 69 Donnaand 33 Had status 
abbr. 43 Open poker Rex 36 Where dough 21 Heart of -44 Self· is handled 23 Pacific defense art DOWN 40 Distinctive 
island 46 Make into 1 Diamond air 
24 Cosmos' law term , 41 Russian sea one-time 48 Banished 2 Copied 43 Vapor star 50 "-jolly 3 Swine 45 English 
25 Sharpen good..." 4 Chemical royal ending forester 5 Noted 47 Gulls 

portraitist 49 Ms. Bacall 6 Books for 51 Playground the ages item 7 Kindof 53 Rope fiber 
test 54 European 8 "LeCoq-" capital 9 Stopped 55 Disturbance 
10 Loops 56 Skeletal 11 Touch (on) part 12 Flower 57 Travel 13 Ruminant 58 Arthurian 19 The-lady 
(Nether· 59 Holy women: lands city) abbr. 22 Most 61 Give assent 
11/C/82 ancient 63 Fruit drink 
tJniorBar 
at S€niOR BaR 

Campus 
•I2:IO 
p.m. -Concert, Notre Dame Jazz Band, Annenberg Auditorium 

•3:30 
p.m. -Field Hockey, NO vs. Michigan State University, Alumni Field 

•4 
p.m. -Reception, Navy and Marine Corps birthday ceremony and reception, Library Auditorium 

•4:
IS p.m. -Lecture, "On the Results of the Ar· cheological Field Research in Southem Illinois," Prof. Robert Pickering, 2I8 O'Shaughnessy 

•6:30 
p.m. -College to Career Days, Sharon McKernan, Stapleton Lounge,, Saint Mary's College 

•7 
p.m. -Sex Offense Seminars, Self Defense Clinic, Harold Smith, Gymnastics room of the Rock, Sponsored by Women's Caucus 

•7, 
9: IS, & II :30 p.m. -Film, "Shoot the Moon," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union, SI 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Origins ofSolidarity," Dr. Rett Ludwikowski, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m. -Shock of the New Film Series, "Landscape of Pleasure," and at 8:30p.m. "Trouble in Utopia," Annen berg Auditorium 

•8 
p.m.--Lecture, "The Changing Nature of the Financial Services Industry," Robert E. Birk, Library Auditorium and Lounge 

•9 
p.m. -NAZZ, Patti and Jeff Harrington 

•10:30 
p.m.-NAZZ, "The End," 


T.V. Tonight 
OP€0 9:30 • 2:00am 

6p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. 
llp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
B •
flan. 

16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 3·2·1 Contact 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS News 28 ABC's World News Tonight 34 Over Easy 16 M*A*S*H 22 laverne and Shirley 28 Joker's Wild 34 The MacNeil/lehrer Report 16 All in the Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 16 Fame 22 Magnum PI 28 joanie Loves Chachi 34 All Creatures Great and Small 28 The Star of the Family 16 Cheers 22 Simon and Simon 28 Too Close for Comfort 34 Mystery 16 It Takes Two 
16 . Hill Street Blues 22 Knots Landing 28 20/20 34 Sound Festival 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitne~s News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The Dick Cavett Show 16 Tonight Show 22 Quincy and McCloud 28 ABC News Nightline 
The saga of a 6 month old domer. 
• 
' 

• 
Thursday, November 4, 1982-page 16
SQorts 
Student ticket sales down; Digger, Orsini wonder why 
ByWILLHARE "We cut the cost for students by Sports Writer dividing the tickets into packages," points out Orsini. "It used to be that "Why?" students supported through thick That is the question Ticket and thin and had a good time at all 
Manager Steve Orsini and Head Bas­the games but now they're saying we ketball Coach Digger Phelps are ask­want to see three games (the Ken­ing these days, concerned over the tucky, UCLA, and Indiana games in drastic drop in .,ales of student the week of December 1 to 7 )." 
season basketbal .I ticke-ts. But this year, most ofthe students Before Tuesday. just 2900 of5000 have rejected the idea of seeing a student tickets aliotted for Package team that was 10-1 7 last season A had been sold, \\ hile a paltry 2000 battle a schedule full of Akrons, 
had been sold for Package B. These Stonehills and Dartmouths. 
numbers are fru;.trating to Orsini, "I think we've been spoiled," says who heard complaints just two Phelps. "The fans don't realize in seasons ago about the lack ofseason certain situations when we schedule 
tickets available to the students. teams, you have to play confen:nce "Two years ago, we split the teams when they can play. packages tu make more tickets "If we could schedule Kentucky 
Tbe Notre Dame soccer team blanked Bethel
available to the students," says Or­

See TICKETS, page 12 College 12-0 yesterday 011 Alum11i Field raising
sini. "The first year wc split the tick­
ets we sold all 'iOOO allotted. and last

.,: 
year we fell to 3500 student tickets 

sold. That required us to go to the Oosehome season 
general public and sell the remain­ing season tickets. "This year again, we're con­

Soccer team shuts out Bethel, 12-0 
siderably lower and I want the students to be aware of what is ByALGNOZA these poor guys didn't even have the Bruce Novotny, and Steve Berry. confessed. "It was pretty bad happening." Sports Writer guts to blame the press and their Even Gerard McCarthy came close though." 
"Those who don't show up will be roommates for such an embarrass­to scoring a goal, which doesn't real­The win capped off Notre Dame's 
the first ones complaining because The Notre Dame soccer team was ing situation. ly seem like that much until you con­fall home season and left the Irish they don't have tickets," says Phelps. supposed to have a game against Things weren't much different sider that McCarthy is the Irish with an 8-2-1 record on friendly turf. "They'll also be th·~ ones complain­Grace College yesterday. Grace, this time around as Notre Dame goalie. The Irish will finish off their season ing a year from nc' when they don't howver, was in a tournament and registered a 12-0 victory at Alumni "They put Gerard in at center­on the road -the Indiana toll road have tickets." couldn't make it, so courageous Bet­Field before 1 5 -that's right -I 5 forward," explained Harkenrider. to be exact -as they visit Toledo 
Numerous reasons have been hel College was asked if they could fans . Ken Harkenrider, Rich Her­"Mario set him up perfectly. But the University in search of win number given by many students, but the perhaps fill in the void. degen, and Mike Sullivan all scored 2 goalie deflected his first shot and 16. major claim is that a season til:ket is This request was more an act of goals apiece for the hosts who raised Gerard's second attempt sailed Perhaps the biggest and most 
not worth the cost per ticket when necessity than ofwisdom as the Irish their record to 15-5-2. about two or three feet over the pleasant surprise of the afternoon the schedule includes no big-name had outscored Bethel 21-3 in t their "It was a good game in the sense crossbar." was the performance of Sullivan. .._ powerhouses after December. four previous meetings. And no, that everybody got a chance to No one was really sure of the The senior tri-captain had been 

Student bball ticket distributi~n goes on 
Any Notre Dame student who purchased basketball season tickets 
via the summer application may pick up the tickets at the ticket 
window on the second floor of the ACC from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. 
according to the following schedule: SOPHOMORES, GRADUATE 
and LAW students -Today; FRESHMEN -Tomorrow; 
Any Notre Dame students who have not yet purchased basketball 
season tickets may fill out an application and pay for tickets at the 
Gate 10 ticket windows of the ACC today. These tickets will be 
available on a first-come, first-served basis and will be distributed to 
seniors, juniors, sophomores and graduate students on today, from 8 
a.m. until 5 p.m. at the second floor ticket window. Freshmen may pick up these tickets on Friday. 
Package 'A' Lower Arena tickets are sold out. However, Package 'B' 
Lower Arena and both Bleacher _packages are still available. The 
following games comprise Package 'A': Nov. 27-St. Francis (Pa.); 
Dec. 1 -Kentucky; Dec. 7-Indiana; Dec. 11 -Dartmouth;)an. 17 
-Lafayette; Feb. 2 -La Salle; Feb. 7 -Seton Hall; Feb. 21 -Akron; 
March 10 -Northern Iowa. 

The following contests are contained in Package 'B': Nov. 18 ­Yugoslavia; Nov. 26 -Stonehill; Dec. 4 -UCLA; Dec. 9 -Fairfield; Jan. 12 -Canisius; Jan. 19 -Bucknell; Feb. 5 -South Carolina; March 3 -Hofstra; March 7 -Dayton. 
The Saint Mary's Student Activities Office is handling the sale and distribution of tickets for all SMC students. 

.. 
play,"  said  Harkenrider.  "I  think  score  yesterday  because  the  snakebitten QY an injury throughout  
that's  part  of  the  reason  they  scoreboard  was  short-circuited by  the  entire  season  and  had  only  
scheduled Bethel. Rich (coach Hun­ Monday's thunderstorm. It seemed  managed to see action at certain mo­ 
ter)wanted to have a game in which  as if everyone took their turn pick­ ments. It would have been interest·  
all the seniors could start and he got  ing on the Bethel goalie who had to  ing  to  see  what  would  have  
his chance today."  be led off the field in a straight jack­ happened if the Irish had not  ex­ 
Other goal scorers for the Irish in­ et.  perienced injuries to people such as  
cluded  Mario  Manta,  Mark  Luet­ "To tell you the truth I don't even  Sullivan and another Irish tri-captain  
kehans (on a header), Ted Schwartz,  remember the score," Harkenrider  Jay Schwartz.  

Faultyprintout 
Concordiagamessurprise voters 

It was a busy week in college football, and the staffers at Bottom Ten Central Tabulation and Administraton Headquarters were kept busy day and night. 
One of the problems was the speed with which some teams were notching touchdowns. The Oregon Ducks were very proud to report that they'd allowed UCLA to score two within just 21 seconds. Then word came in that the Rice Owls had topped that feat. Rice allowed Arkansas' Jessie Clark to score two touchdowns in 5 I seconds all hy himself. 
Then there was the problem of the faulty computer read-outs. Tabulators were sure the highly-complex mechanical score-reporters were malfunctioning. But that was not the case. The scores were confirmed: Con· cordia 35. lllinois Benedictine 28; Concordia 42, St. Thomas 29; Concordia 17, Lake Forest 14; and Doane 23, Concordia 0. Bad news for fans in Illinois, Min­nesota, and Wisconsin, respectively -but reason to celebrate for the folks in Nebraska. 
There were three awards handed out this week by 
the Bottom Ten "Just Recognition for Just About Any­
thing" Committee. 
Miami Hurricane Quarterhack Mark Richt was given 
the Marlon Brando "I could've heen a contender" 
Award. Richt, who stepped in when lleisman candidate Jim Kelly w:L~ injured. was suspended for violating un· specified team ruk~ J.ftt:r the Hurricmes' 2+~ loss to Florida State. 
Another quarterback, Doug flutie of Boston College, garnered the coveted James Whitmore "One Man Show" Award. Flutie completed 26 of his 4'-i passes ­for an amazing 520 yards -but the Eagles lost to Penn State, 52·1'-i. 
Tiny Akron University was plca~ed that the Bottom Ten honored one of its own this week. Running back James Black received the Sam Cooke "Working on the Chain (iang" Award. In the last two weeb. Black has· carried the ball a total of9.., times. 
Speaking ot' rdJ.tivc obs<.·urity. the game between 
Niagra and SienJ last week will always hold a special 
place in the hearts of Bottom Ten voters. Midway 
through the second quarter. the game was stopped. It's 
Bottom Ten 

llVLL.u~llht: l\\.0 tcanl~u .. utl'l '-...t.r. ..... 4ol.~v,..n lih.. U~o...u...__<..;iu'-­
though that wouldn't surprise anyone. It seems that a cloud of chlorine gas descended on (and we use the term lightly) the stadium. The gas came from a mal­functioning DuPont plant nearby. 
Finally, a tip of the Bottom Ten Hat, and a wish for better luck next time to Pacific l:niversity. The team snapped a 30-game NAJA losing streak last week, beating Lewis and Clark, 21-14. One has to wonder how much better Lewis and Clark would have been if they'd had the other nine guys playing with them. 
IIere are the rankings: 

I) Eastern Michigan (0-8) 
2) Memphis State (0-8) 3) Rice (0-8) 4) Richmond (0-8) 

5) Kent State (0-8) 6)TexasSouthern (0-8-1) 7) Kentucky (0-7-1) 
8) Texas-El Paso (I-8) 
9) Michigan State (1-7) 

10) State ofOregon (0-14-2) 
Also Receiving Votes: Kansas (1-5-2) Colorado (1-6-1) 
Quote of the Week: 

Former Northwestern Head Coach Rick \'enturi: "You can't imagine what a new world it is for me on Saturdays. Why. I can walk into a stadium. grab a Coke, shake hands, chat, and enjoy the games. !'l:o more heading for the neareM restroom to throw up.·· 





