
• • .Cody -page 3 

MONDAY, APRIL 26, 1982
VOL. XVI, NO. 136 the independent ~tudelll newspaper ser\'ing notre Jame and sait1lmary's 
Fightingbegins 

British take South Georgia Island 
Arson suspected 
Fires damage golfcourse 
The wet1ther during this years An Tostal celebration made even a trip to the mudpits warm enough to smile about. (photo by Chery•/ Erte/t) 
FALKlAND ISlANDS (AP)­
Helicopter-borne British com­mandos supported by warships and aircraft captured South Georgia Is­land after battling Argentine troops in a dawn attack Sunday, the British government said. 
It reported British warplanes also had strafed and damaged an Ar­gentine submarine in what appeared to be the first shots fired in the con­flict over the Falkland Islands. 
Argentina's military junta issued a communique reporting intense fighting, but did not announce a sur­render of the small unit ofArgentine troopers on South Georgia, a depen­dency of the Falklands in the South Atlantic. 
There were reports in Buenos Aires of an unspecified number of Argentine casualties in the attack on the submarine. The British an­nouncement, which said the military force of 44 Argentines had surrendered, reported there were no British casualties and said it was not known if their were Argentine casualties. 
British forces landed on South Georgia after helicopter gunships at· tacked the Argentine submarine that detected the assault operation 800 miles east of the Falklands, the British government said. 
The announcement by Defense Minister john Nott said Argentine troops ran up the white flag of sur­render at Grytviken, the main port on South Georgia's northeast coast. 
The Argentine communique, issued after the British announce­ment, said the "reduced naval detachment at Leith (across the bay from Grytviken) has resolved to resist until its defensive capacity is exhausted. 
"The group's commander said in his last communication that he had destroyed his codes and would do the same with his radio quipment before the final battle." 
It also said that "for more than four hours the defensive garrison withstood constant cannon fire from the destroyer Exetcr as well as at­tacks by heavily armed helicopters which machine-gunned defensive positions." 
Nott, flanked by a beaming Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher outside her I 0 Downing Street residence in London, said British forces "have successfully taken control of Gryt­vikcn." 

By BOB VONDERHEIDE AND KELLI FLINT 
Nt•ws Editors 
.,, , Two fires occurred early Saturday morning causing an unknown
4 
amount of damage to two Notre Dame golf course structures, according to Notre Dame Security Director Glenn Terry, adding that 

Rubio lectures 


Salvadoran elections a Jarce! 
ByJACK VOGEL 
News Staff 

The struggle in El Salvador, has reached a crucial turning point, according to Victor Rubio, political representative of the Revolutionary Democratic Front ( FDR) of El Sal­vador. Rubio spoke to an audience of over 80 students and taculty Satur­day evening in the Hayes-Healy auditorium. 
The morale of the junta armed forces is low, said Rubio, and the FDR/FMLN has grown and gained new victories even since the elec­tions. It is becoming clear that the present government will not be able to maintain power for long without the actual intervention off foreign troops (whether U.S. ora surrogate). 
Such an action, he warned, "could lead to a conflagration of all of Central America." He emphasized that the outcome of such a conflict was not in doubt. 
"We will win," he said, "but at what cost?" The basis for this claim is that this civil war is not a matter ofa small group of guerillas who may even by 'suported' by the people; "we are the people" Rubio insisted. "We arc forgoing our own destiny for the first time in our history." The greatest evidence of this representa­tion is the fact of the victories of the FDR/fmln in spite of the millions in aid and suort by the U.S., and in spite ofsome 41 military offensive on the part of the junta in 1981 (each of which was a failure), he said. 
The biggest question in to have 1.4 million votes, they only everyone's mind was the March 28 printed 800,000 ballots! On the 
elections. The elections were a com­plete farce, he said, designed "to confuse U.S. public opinion and to gain support from the U.S. Congress" for Reagan's interventionist policy. 

Victor Rubio 

These fraudulent elections are no­thing new to us (El Salvadorans), Rubio .asserted, and similar events have been held in 1944, 1956, 1962, 1967, 1972, and 1977. The outcome and the fraud of these past elections is amatter ofverifiable record. There was also clear evidence of fraud in these 1982 elections, given that al­though the junta claimed ultimately question of why so many people voted if they indeed suported the FDR, Rubio said that it was not worth it not to vote. Gen. Garcia had said for weeks before the election that not voting woud he considered an act ofsubversion. 
At the time of the vote the citizen's identification papers arc stamped, and iflater one is found by the military to have unstampcd papers, this could be taken as evidence of"leftist support." 
The FDR, Rubio insisted, never opposed the elections nor threatened anyone if they voted. He suggested that reports ofsuch things were covert attempts by the govern­ment to discredit the FDR. There was no reason to oppose the elec­tions, since they fooled no one in El Salvador and meant nothing to the people there. 
Rubio, although born and raised in El Salvador, was educated in the 
U.S.. An engineer, holding degrees from San Francisco State University and the University of Detroit, Rubio is also a member of MIPTES, a union ofprofessionals in the FDR coalition. 
Rubio has been touring some 31 states and various foreign countries in the last year. His stated purpose is, "to tell the people of this country the rruth about what is going on in El Salvador" and to help build a move­ment of solidarity with the libera­t.ion struggle of El Salvador in this country. 
arson is suspected in both cases. 

An unidentified witness claimed to have seen a man running across the golf course north of Dorr Road toward the woods after the Notre Dame and South Bend Fire Depart· ments responded to the fire in the golf maintenance shed at 1.2:15 a.m., Terry said. Another man was seen fleeing east. 
About 90 minutes later, ·while firefighters brought the first fire un­der control, another fire broke out at the starter's tee. Damage has not yet been estimated; however, a main­tenance cart was damaged and a pick-up truck, which was stolen from the shed, was later found smashed against a tree near the fifth green. 
The fire at the starter's' tee damaged one of the support pillars, according to University Information Services Director Richard Conklin. 
"There can be no doubt that both 
Saint Mary 'sproposes to modifyparietals 
By MARGARET FOSMOE 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor 

A new Saint Mary's parietals proposal seeking to modil)t the current hours to include Sunday evenings and some weekdays has been prepared by 1981-82 Stu­dent Body President Eileen Murphy. 
.Under the plan, which has been presented to Student Government and the Board of Regents parietals would be ex­tended to include the following hours: Friday, 3 p.m.-2a.m.; Satur­day, I p.m.-2 a.m.; Sunday, 1 p.m.­tO p.m.; and Monday through Thursday, 5 p.m.-10 p.m. 
Copies of the proposal have been distributed to Residence Life, Campus Ministry, Counsel­ing and Career Developing, and the offices of Student Activities and Student Affairs. These or­ganizations have been asked to submit statements either approv­ing or rejecting the proposal. 
The proposal was prepared in response to a survey taken last semester in which 80 percent of students requested a re­evaluation of the present parietal system. 
According to Murphy, there may he a "lot of changes" in the proposal before any decision is finalized. 
While approval of the proposal by the Board ofRegents is not ab­solutely necessary, they will be asked to "rubberstamp what­ever the others come up with," said Murphy. 
The Board of Regents is scheduled to vote on the mauer in October. 
tires were deliberately set," Conklin said. "But there is no way ofknowing who or how many people were in· volvcd." Terry, however, did say that the arsonists are not suspected to be students. 
Terr)' also noted that the fires arc not believed at the present time to be related to An Tostal, which rook place this weekend on campus. "I won't think An Tostal is meant to vent any frustration to the llniVt'r­sity through (property damage)," Terry said. "This I think is arson. Someone had to have had terrible frustration to do this damage." 
Other damage over the weekend includes a hrokcn window at the­south side of tht· Architecture build­ing as well as a broken window of a west side door at the Memorial Library. Also, several lawn posts were uprooted. 
Terry does not believe these inci­dents are related to the tires. 

~--~-------------------~-------------~--:----·-. 

NewsBrie_b 
By The Obserwr and 1"he Associated Press 
Israel returnedthe eastern Sinai Desert to Egypt yes-. 
terday, ending nearly 15 years of occupation in emotion-charged 
ceremonies that brought cheers, tears, riots and vows of eternal . peace. Shouts of"Allah Akbar" -"God is Great" -went up from a 
throng of2,000 Arabs watching as a huge red, white and black Egyp­
tian flag was unfurled over the new Sinai border checkpoint outside 
Rafah. Trumpets blared, drums boomed, fireworks puffed in the sky, 
Bedouin men on camels cheered and Bedouin women trilled in 
high-pitched ululation -their traditional tongue-warbling outpour­
ing of deep feeling. A few hours before the evacuation, about 70 
)ewish nationalists opposed to the withdrawal came out of the 
obliterated Israeli town ofYamit. They wept, kissed the ground and 
rent their garments in Jewish funeral tradition. Anti-withdrawal ac­
tivists claimed some of their people were still inside the Egyptian 
ruled area and would try to stay there, Associated Press correspon­
dent Larry Thorson reported. -AP 

Right-wingers backing Roberto d'Aubuisson have con­solidated their grip on the Constituent Assembly and are likely to keep an equally tight rein on the provisional presider.£ they pick. Mario Redaelli, spokesman for d'Aubuisson's Republican Nationalist Alliance, or ARENA, said: "the assembly is like the mother ofthe little boy. It can say yes or no." D'Aubuisson, an ultra-rightist and cas­hiered army major who last fall was an underground figure accused of plotting to overthrow the goernment, was elected to run the as­sembly Thursday night. "El Salvador has triumphed. We have won the ideological struggle," proclaimed the new speaker; flanked by nine other rightists who fill out the assembly's new directorate. There wasn't a Christian Democrat in the group, despite proclaimed 
U.S. pressure to include them. -AP 

Martial law rulerGen. Wojciech }aruzelski met with 
Archbishop Jozef Glemp yesterday, the eve of the Roman Catholic 
primate's departure for the Vatican, the Polish news agency PAP 
reported. PAP gave· no details of the unexpected meeting -the 
second between church and state leaders since the Dec. 13 imposi­
tion of martial law. The agency said the meeting took place in the 
same government housing complex where Glemp and Premier 
Jaruzelski met with Solidarity leader Lech Walesa last November to 
discuss a possible accord between the communist government and. 
the now-suspended independent labor movement. No agreement 
was reached, and JaruZelski declared martial law a month later and 
suspended Solidarity. Walesa is being held under house arrest in a 
Warsaw suburb. Jaruzelski and Glemp last met on Jan. 9 but churcil 
sources said no progress was made during the brief session. The 
archbishop,.returning to his residence yesterday after the two-hour 
meeting, refused to comment on the talks and said an official com­
.munique would be releas_ed. He was asked if he was optimistic and 
he replied, "I am always optimistic." -AP 

An explosion and flash fire I:ipped through an 
antiques exhibition yesterday, killing at least 33 people and injuring dozens of others, police said. Many jumped from the roof of the four-story building onto mattresses piled up below. "There was a tremendous explosion which shook the entire area," said Paolo Pianigiani, a reporter at a radio station across the street from the 15th century building housing the exhibition. "For a minute we thought it was an earthquake, then we sawsmoke, fire and there were people screaming, screaming," he said. "Fire spread quickly and the heat was so intense ... I saw a bronze statute literally melt." Authorities said about 200 people were inside when the blast oc­curred. They said dozens ofpeople leaped to safety by jumpingorito the mattresses, which townspeople piled on a flatbed truck. People fled to the roofin panic because the windows were blocked by anti­burglar bars. Firefighters said they were still searching for victims in the rubble and that the death toll could go as higll as 45. The dead and injured were all believed to be Italians. The Italian news agen~y ANSA, in an unconfirmed report, said at least 60 people were injured. -AP 
_ Police were seeking clues yesterday to the 
identity ofa pqlite but nervous young man who abducted the wife of 
a bank manager and two ofher children. Connie Patterson, 33, hand­
cuffed to a tree, and her 1-year-old daughter, }ana, nearby in a car­
seat, were found Saturday afternoon 8 miles south ofhere by a man 
who heard the woman's screams. They were cold from a night 
·outside, but otherwise unharmed, officias said. The other child, 4·­
,year-oldJulia, was found Friday night walking in a gravel pit. Money 
was the apparent motive. for the abduction, though authorities 
would not say how much was demanded. Authorities have made no 
arrest and have no suspect in the case, said Jerry Palmateer, Lewis 
County sheriff's office chiefdeputy. -AP 

Fort Wayne,s floodwaters receded last month, 
but they're still making waves so to speak. A crew from ABC-TV's 
"That's Incredible" has been in Fort Wayne off and on recently put­
ting together a package ofvolunteer etl'orts for a segment on one of 
the series' first shows next fall. Last Friday, Mayor Winfield Moses Jr. 
presented awards to local school administrators and students for 
their efforts in helping battle last month's flood which forced several 
thousand people .out of their homes. As Moses made the presenta­
tions, the cameras were rolling to capture the moment for "That's 
Incredible." George Burdeau, the producer-director for the series, 
said the report will reflect favorably on fndiana's second largest city 
and the children's effor~s around the clock for nearly a week in bat­
tling the flood. During filming of the presentation, the mayor told 
students, "This effort has renewed our faith in the future generation. 
,We have kids to make the future brighter." -AP 
A 70 percent chance of thundershowers today. Highs in the mid to upper 50s. Mostly cloudy Monday night with a 40 percent chance ofrain. Lows in the upper 30s to low 40s. Becoming partly sunny Tuesday. High in the low 'to mi_d 50s. -AP 
This Notre Dame freshman I know is laughing no~. He can barely believe he's almost a sophomo_re. There's only two more weeks of school lett and-e:ve11 better, . only one more Emil quiz. But he's happier than that. ' · 
Ever since the sun came out, this guy's been having fun. And he's been laughing. He no longer remembers thoseboring February Friday nights when he sat around with the gang slamming a few beers and complainiQ.g that the social life here was pitiful. He does not remem­berhis vow to transfer or his plans to throw the largest keg party in history just to shake the place up a bit. 
That's all been forgotten now. This guy is looking for­ward to next year when things have got to be better because they couldn't be any worse. Freshman year has been just plain boring and he wants to forget it. But isn't it always easier to forget those things you hate to remember? The truth of the matter is that this guy has suffered from the classic Notre Dame Social Disease. It's the disease one administrator has in mind when he calls Notre Dame -t"-:'O single-sex groups It's the disease the Alumni Association has ,in mind when it says "we are still a male instituition that happens to have women." 
We have all heard it before, and perhaps most ofus at one time or another have felt its symptoms: the Notre 
Dame male and Notre Dame Freshman Year o( Studies. female simply do not inter­has held all sorts ofactivities act in a normal way. It's al­trying to get freshmen in­most as if Notre Dame. has volved. But realistically, not yet realized that it is there are only so many coeducational. That makes snowy hills at Ben<ijx for a rough so~ial life and Woods that Dean.Emil Hof­especially rough dUring the . man can slide down on an in­freshman year. ner tube. Freshman Year can 
The freshman, . whether only do so much. male or female, arrives in What is ne_eded is some_ August and immediately falls permanent· way to have prey to the "herd men-· Johnny Freshman meet tality," accelerated perhaps Mary Freshman in the first by the single-sex dorms. place. It's not a new student 
Groups of men start running center even though that around and groups of would help a great deal. It's women do the same. Except not anew keg IJOlicy or even· . not together. The "packs" a new parietals policy. , do everthing by themselves. 
Coed dorms. That's it. But The eat together, they party 
together, and study together. 
Take, for example, a few years back when Campus Ministry sponsored a mixer for the freshmen in two dorms. One organizer said he felt like an eighth grade teacher watching the unisex groups segregate them­selves in the various corners ofthe room. 
It is disillusioning to see. One would think that with 2000 overachievers there would be a whole network of romance. Not so. Just ask any freshman. 
Deciphering why the social atmosphere for freshmen is this way, however, is a thankless job. One opinion shared by students and administrators alike.is that fresh­man arrive so conditioned for success thatthe fear.of rejection is simply too great. 
Other people say that freshmen here are simply· so­Cially retarded -they don't know how to act around tlie opposite sex. Everything takes practice, one p,riest said, and Notre Dame freshmen don''t have it. And cer­tainly the percentage of students from unisex high schools adds to that problem. · 
But perhaps the problem is not that complicated ­
Design Editor ............._. ................ Tim Ne¢ly Design Assistants .......... Mike McCaughey Typesetters................................ Mark Miotto News Editor .................................. Vic Sciulli Copy Editors ...._. ................. Cindy Coldiron Diane Oirkc:rs Features Layout........................ Tari Brown Editorials Layout ......... Mike McCaughey Sports Copy Editor ............. Skip Desjardin Typist................................ Mary Beth Porter Kelly Sullivan Skip Desjardin NDDayEditor .......................... Dave Grote Karen McMahon SMC Day Editor ...............,.. Kathy Zuschin Ad Design..................................john & Tom Pbotograpber ......................... Cberyl Ertelt Guest Appearances ....... Marilyn the party animal Another sleepless Flint A workin!\ system {Hooray) Roxanne the California Surfer 
The Observer ·1 USPS 598 920) IS 
published Monday through Froday and. 
on home football Saturdays. except 
durong exam and vacatoon peroods The 
Observer 1s pCJbloshed by the students 
of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col­
lege Subscropt1ons may be purchased 
for $25 per year {$15 per semester) by 
wrot1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 
Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The ·Associated Press All reproduct1on roghts are reserved · · Second class postage pa1d at Notre 
Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
._. 
ALVELDMANSTANDARD ::. .405 Dixieway. Across from University Village 272-5558 Handles ND horns-sales and,.installation 



Veldman sAutoSalvage 
. :··


25926 Western Ave. 288-4423 New & Used Auto and Truck parts 


~t======B. & B STORAGE==~ SpecialSummerRates 

Individuals: 25%0FF Large UnitStalls: 50% OFF Pick-up and delivery available Call684-l155 
3001 U.S. 31 (Y2 mile south of KMART) 

Monday, April 26, 1982 -page 2 

maybe the problem is simply thatjohnny Freshman and Mary Freshman do not even know each other, much 
· less date each other.Johnny doesn't ask Mary to a movie because all he knows about her is that she scored four points higher on the last French test. And there's onlyso much the·dogbook can do. 
Few peopl_e would · not admit that freshman run around in herds, but maybe that's just because the "guys" or the "girls;, are the only peopleJohnny or Mary knows well.enough to laugh with or even to be good. friends with. · 
"When I think about it," one male student said, "I really doh't have· a close friend who happens to be a girL" · 
So what is the solution? That's even harder to say: 
-iJEtJlll~ l(Yf\N it is too unrealistic of a sug­gestion for a school that is just now realizing it cannot be the world's largest male locker room anymore. The admi~istrat'ion would say no, the rectors would say no, and I even expect-the freshmen themselves would not like the idea ' 
But I don't see the .social situation 

• improving uhtil males and females get.a,realistic under, stand~ng of.each other. Nothing will happen until the "herds" become mix{:d, and that will never happen un­til Johnny ang 'Maiy become good friends. The fact of 
, the matter is that frien_dships are initially a function of proximity. 
Perhaps there is a· better solution, but no one seems to have a clue as to what it is. The administration says the social problems are beyond its power to resolve, and it.is correct in claiming that. The freshmen can only wonder why they never read anything about th,is .in the recruiting material. And now that the year is. almost over the freshmen feel like laughing, and laughingloud­ly, even tho~gh some ofthem fmd nothing funny at all. 





The Observer Monday, April 26, 1982 -page 3 



SMC board discusses parietals, center plans 
By MARY ANN POTTER 
.'Veu•s Stuff 
A proposal will be prcscntt•d 'oon 
to the Saint .\1ary·~ CommitllT of 
Student Affair~ ~<.·tking extcn<kd 
hours in parietals. A prupop~al 
seeking extended parietal hours and 
space allocation for the new College 
Cemer were the main topics dis­
cussed a t the Saint Mary's Board of 
Governance meeting last night. 
According to a recent survey, 
Saint Mary's students expressed the 
need for changes in the present 
parietals system. Former Student 
Body President Eileen Murphy 
compiled the results into a proposal 
that calls for the creation of parietal 
hours on weekdays, 
The final decision on the exact 
hours will come from the Board of 
Regents when it reviews the 
proposal next October. According 
to Student Body President Kathleen 
Murphy, "Things look good. I think 
we will see a change in the parie· 
tals." 
In other business, the exact dis­tribution of space in· the College Center Committee. Much of difficulty stems from the allocation of the first floor to the bookstore. 
If given the entire first floor, argues Saint Mary's administration, the bookstore will have an 1 I per­cent increa-;e in space. increase in space. Students disagree. 
'... Things look good. 
I think we will see 
a change 


in the parietals. . . ' 
An al!ernative proposal to the t:ntirc tirst tloor being allocated to the hookstore is to separate text hooks and some supplies hy locating hospitalized t(nir times since June 191-l I, most rect·ntly in january. But he was allowed by doctors to



GroundZero Week 
cekbrat<.' his (;olden jubilee Mass on Dec. I~ and .~lidnight Mass on Christmas Eve, his "·Hh birthday.
keepsnuke~sueaUve 
Christmas Eve was his last public 
CINDY COLDIRON 
StaffReporter 
Enlarging its present student­tacuhy committee to keep the nuclear warfare issut.· alive is the goal of Notre Dame Ad lloc C_ommit· tee l(>r the Prevention of Nuclear War, according to committee mem­her Reg Webt•rt. 
Ground Zero, an organization which draws its name from the point of deton01tion of a nuclear weapon, sponsored a nation-wide week of events to involve the Amcri(.·an people in the issue of preventing nuclear war. 
Approximately 'o students and 

appearance. lie had been expected faculty members attended tilms to rclinqubh his scat when he shown in the library auditorium last turned ..,'i, the recommended age ,'vlonday and friday and a lct'ture by· ti>r hi.~hops to rt·tire. 
Ms. Patrice franko, a doctoral can· didate in economics, entitled "Nuclear Arms: The Hidden Cost of Defense Spending." 
Wcisert hdicves that the Thur~day Peace Day mass at 1he grotto was also wdl attended "considering that last wt.·ek was a high-preSI\Ure Week t()f' ~!Udcnts with exams." 
The ~otre Dame committee .is currently planning. evems concern· ing the nuclear is.~ue fpr tht· fall semester.· 
them where the pn:senr bookstore is. Other merchandise and supplies would be on half of the tirst t1oor. 
There are still at least ten other areas, such as a game room or anoth­er multipurpose room, that could he housed there, even if the bookstore is alloted the entire first tloor, coun· ters Student Activities Director Mary Ann O'Donnell. 
Also, Micheline Santello proposed a method to increase awareness among incoming freshmen and other students that the Board of Governance is here "to wo,rk togeth· er with the students and administra· tion." One idea, she suggested, is to hold several meetings at the begin­ning of the year. 
The meeting last night was the last for this semester. The Board will return next fall on Augusr 25 !o resume activities. 
74yearsold 

Cardinal Codydies ofapperent heart attack 
CHICAGO (AP) -Civic and tery disease with tindings consistent religious leaders mourned the death with congestive heart failure and yesterday from an apparent heart at· pulmonary hypertension." tackofCardinaljohn P. Cody, leader Henri said that during past hospi­of the nation's lar~est Roman Cath· tal slays at Northwestern, Cody was olic archdiocese who had been un· found to have congestive heart der investigation for his l1andling of tailure as well as a huildup oftluid in church funds. his abdomen. More tests were to be 
The 7+year-old prelate, who was pert(>rmed during the nexr few days, praised by Pope john Paul II last he said. December for "ti.>stering human and Cody had denied any wrongdoing social progress," was pronounced in connection with recent allega­dead, "apparently of cardiac arrest," tions that he diverted up to sI mil­at 12: 19 a.m., said Northwestern lion in church funds H.> a liti.-long Memorial Hospital spokesman friend. A federal grand jury was Curtis Thompson. looking into the claims -the lirst 
lit-had been rushed ti> the ho~pi· investigation of its kind into tht· tal after a private nurst· at hb 11nances of a l'.S. prelate. residence discovered him asleep Tht· prosecutor handling the cast' and "having some difticulty" breath· said Sunday its statu' would he ing, Thompson said. Hospital reviewed in light of Cody's death. spokesm;m James Henri issued a Cody, who suffered a heart attack statemt·nt later saying, "A post­in 19''5 an(,! had his gallbladder 
mortem exam reveals coronary ar-removnl in 19..,6, had been 
THE OAR HOUSE 
• Beer 
Open till

•liquor 

3:00am!!!

• Carry out 
-SINGLES BAR -BOOZE &DANCING 272-7818 

U.S. 31 North 

......._(~-~!~E~..~.~-~-~~ ..~t..t!.~.!!!!.~.!I..!!:!.~L....... 

mandos captured South Georgia Island after bat· 
fling Argentine troops yesterday in a daum attack. See story• on page one. (AP LaserpbQto) 

"Chicago has lost a great religious leader and I a great and warm per­sonal fric:nd," said Monsignor l'rancis A. Brackin, archdiocese vicar general for administrative matters, who increasingly conducted church business as Cody's health failed. 
Cody became the spiritual leader 

.............u .......................................................................................................... 
CogLmo'g ffiaUt COegLg" 
18461 St. Rd, 23 South Bend, call for appointment 2 77-18 75 


-shampoo, conditioner, cut style Guys-$7.00 (reg. 13.00) Girls $10.00 (reg.18.00) For Co-Designers Only. 
......................................................................................................................... 
of nearly 2.. 5 million Roman Cat­
holics after being named Arch­
bishop of Chicago in 1965. Two 
years later, he was elevated to the 
College of Cardinals. 
In Chicago, Cody set up retire­ment programs for the laity and clergy and got rich parishes to share their wealth. lie was criticizt·d ti>r closing live innt:r-city parod1ial schools for lat.·k of funds without con:-.ulting the school hoard, and some priests d1afed when he retired ·H dderlr paswrs. 
In 1979, ht· wa:-. an·used hy the As· sociation of Chkago Priest:-. of a "disrt·gard for human dignity of prksts and people." Sonlt.' said ht· clung 10 old t'LJstoms, ami his har· shnt critk, tht· Rt·v. Andrew (;rcdcy, once callnl him a "m;J(kap tyr;lnt." 
"In the law ofthe< ;;It holic ~,·hurd!, in each dio<:esc tht·rt· is hut one authority, that hl'ing its cardinal," Colly respondnl to (;redt:y's criticism. 



CLUBS A~D ORGANIZATIONS 
Rptll is the time to te-regitser your group for University recognition and its ensuing privileges. Forms are available In Student Activities Office. By Aprll30,you must complete: 
1. New registrntion form 
2. Finnncinl statement (81 -82 school year) 
3. Report or stntement of activities for 81-82 school !l•ar. 
Th• above or• pre·r•qulaites for funding in S.p'-'nib•r, us• of facilities, and •llglbllity #01 fund-raising v•ntures, including footb«lll 
concenion s"'nda Cknd dle111ovl• lotWf». 




ROSELAND 277-5880 DELIVERING to NOTRE DA~IE and SAINT MARY'S 
lh,krtl•, 1.\I'U/\\ /J/1 1\ 1/C: 
Medium -pepperoni 
HOURS: mon-Thura an~ OIIUitUU,_w
-sausage 
SPm -10:30Pm 



Or combo 
Fri. and Selt. SPm -J2:30Aal Free Cok•:l U-.r w /med. Pizza 2U.ra w/lotg. Pizzo 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------­
The Observer Monday, April 26, 1982 page 4 

By ANNE MONASlYRSKI 
News Staff 
An unidentified youth sustained a leg injury from a keg that struck him after a contestant threw it during the An Tostal KegToss Friday afternoon. 
The boy was thrown to the ground by the force of the keg while standing beyond the safety ropes that surrounded the event. The youth was part of the crowd, which had moved past the guard ropes in order to get a better view of the Keg Toss. 
Jim Mellon and Ernie Menold, who organized the Keg Toss, wit­nessed the accident. "I didn't think he was badly injured at first because he got up," said Mellon. 
Menold walked over to the boy af­ter he fell. "He stood up and limped around a little, then he J.ooked like he was in a bit more pain after he realized what had happened," said Menold. Medics ran to the boy after he collapsed in pain. He was taken by ambulance to a nearby hospital for further treatment. 
'... This is the first time anythinglike this has happened... ' 
"This is the first time anything like this has happened in the past four years I've organized the Keg Toss," said Menold. 
Hesburghdiary 
Salvadoran voting free and open 
even though many were illiterate and had to sign the ballot with a thumb print, everyone was willing to say that no one knew how all of this was going to turn out, but, in any event, it would be a victory for the people. · 
After about a half an hour in Ciudad Barrios, we headed eastward to the northernmost large city n the Province of Canabas, again guerilla land, and landed at the city of Sen­suntepeque. Again, the story was the same. When we asked them what percentage of the possible voters were voting, they said it was at least 95 percent. Many people had come from Morozan, the neighboring department, the night before and had stayed overnight here to vote. They were all defying the guerillas by voting, but they were doing it with great panache and voting for the people ofEl Salvador. 

We again headed south to Berlin, 
in another harassed province of 
Usulutan. We came up the side of a 
mountain, circled the city, and 
landed in a sports field, raising great 
clouds ofdust. We were surrounded 
by thousands of young and old 
people and escorted through the 
town to the voting place where the _sall!e story was told. 
The voting was twice as great as 
ever had happened before in the his­
tory ofthe country, it was complete­
ly free and open, they had all been 
menaced by the guerillas, but they 
were still voting and this again was a 
victory for the people. I thought of 
our own country of America where 
only 50 percent of the people vote 
in free elections, whereas here un­
der the specter ofdeath, almost 100 
percent are voting on this day. 
From here, it was downhill, flying 
back at a fairly high altitude to San 
Salvador so as to escape the snipers' 
bullets. We landed safely, said 
goodbye to each other, and returned 
to the hotel where we all needed a 
shower and I must admit, a drink as 
well, even though it's Lent. All ofour 
people from missions A,B,C, and D 
compared notes, we ate together, 
and then retired for the night be· 
cause tomorrow we have to be on 
deck about 6:00 a.m. for "Good 
Morning America" and two other 
morning television network shows. 
Monday, March 29 
Up at 5:30 and over to the roof of the Camino Real with Senator Kas­sebaum to do a live segment for "Good Morning America." Again, there was a good deal ofgunfire and louder explosions audible as we walked across the roof to the plat· form where filming was to take place. 
As we sat down, the security people insisted we move our chairs closer inboard, since our heads were visible over the roof parapet. It seemed a bit of an anticlimax after yesterday. I have little idea of what we said. As my secretary, Helen Rosinski, often observes, "Anyone that getsyou to do something before seven o'clock ought to get a rebate." 
Back to the hotel for Mass and at 
10:30 was called upon by the rector and dean from the new Universidad Polytechnica where they want some help from Notre Dame in getting started. I told them I would have some ofour people send them some literature regarding our programs and also discuss the possibility of training some of their faculty, espe· dally in econimics and business. They gave me a very lively religious painting by one ofthe famous artists here in El Salvador. I thought they would have to extend the unity and courage ofyesterday into a new day for El Salvador and that had to be done in some very specific ways, such as cutting out the violence of the Right, mainly from the three seg­ments of the military, the Army, the National Guard, and the Treasury 
forces. 
Then there should be a generous 
amnesty for the guerillas which 
might attract back into civilization 
and peace some of the more idealis­
tic members who, by now, should be 
disillusioned after being repudiated 
by the people yesterday. 
Third, all of the political parties, 
and I believe our alumni group 
represents all ofthem, have to begin 
to live together and work together 
and to trust each other. Political uni­
ty has not existed here for a long, 
longtime. 
They would now have to have a coalition government, but it would be meaningless unless they began to work together and to respect each other's differences. I had the impres­sion they were listening very hard and understanding what I was saying. Everyone here wants a new _ day and an end of violence. The young people were all nodding their heads. 

Editors Note: The following is the sixth of a series of edited excerpts taken from the diary of University President Theodore Hesburgh during his recent trip to ElSalvador as part ofthe United States official observer team for the Salvadoran el~ctions. 
-SUnday, MarcJ:i-28 We took off from Jocoro and flew back to San Miguel where we picked up mo•·e fuel and looked into the security situation in the other three provinces to the north. There has been a good deal of guerilla activity in most of these sectors, but we decided that if we were going to , have any kind of credibility, we simply had to go into each depart­ment, go to one of the central cities, land there, and meet with the people at the voting center and find out whether or not the voting was ac­tually taking place, even though many people thought it was not. It involved a certain amount of risk because each place was sur­rounded by guerillas, and we were really in the center of their claimed land, bu"t we felt that we had to do this to have any credibility as a group of international observers seeing whether the electoral process is working or not. I think I can speak for all ofus to admit a cer­tain amount of fear as we took off again with the intention of moving right into the heart of isnurgent ter­ritory and checking the electoral process there. Our first stop was again north toward the border at Ciudad Barrios. We swooped in over the town, made a quick circle, and landed at a sport field near the school where the voting is taking place. Again, there were about 15 voting tables and we went to evt;ry table and talked to all the members of the voting commis­sion, asking them how the system was working and whether there was any intimidation of voters and, in general, how the day was going. Every single one ofthem told us that the new system of voting was working very well and that no one was kept away because of intimida­tion, that the people were indeed voting with their feet, and that the turnout was twice as great as any 
voting session they had  ever  had  
before.  
Interestingly  enough,  no  one  

would say how he or she thought the voting was going in this, the first free and secret election in this country inAfter~ lastexam, many years. Even though these people had been registering voters
wbattOughquestions 
and checkiing their ability to vote,
will you stillbe facing? 

Movin'out? 
RENT A 
RYDER TRUCK 
If you're 18 or over you can rent a Ryder truck to use locally or on a one-way (rent-it-here. leave-it-there) trip to another city 
Compare costs before you make plans for moving at the end of the semester. With a truck you can take along your stereo. 10-speed, clothes, all your stuff. and still have plenty of room for one or two other people and their things, so you can share the costs. Compare that to a plane ticket Or even a bus. ___ _
W don't have your answers. 
. Rent from the best-maintained, most dependable fleet in rIQ.'j
But we'll listen to your questions, 
the world -Ryder. The best truck money can rent l.,a5•
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. 
!. ~l:tfl)'o~~ ••, ~------~~---~----------­
•1 QO! QFF _9nyone~ay 
For anyone who has considered 
..,.__._ 1_ 10 .. rental card rate 
the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One-Year Candidate Program 
Iwi1h thisCOUPON andyour Student 
provides an opportunity to ask and explore 
I Facul1yID .
the possibilities in community . 
~~~.~~re Leveille. C.S.C. Vocation Director Box 541 
• Notre Dame. IN 46556 
YDERTRUCKRENTAL
(219) 239-6385 
2715N. BENDIXDR South Bend 


Editorials 
Monday, April 26, 1982 -page 5 

•~}•· -:~·I 
.It •" 

Every-member service in the peace churches 
The inauguration of conscription tee was tooling up for war sufferers' ·seen as the positive expression of year er more of voluntary service well in Korea, Poland, China ... ) 
during World War I found American relief activities in Europe, for which pea~e churches (Brethren, Friends volunteers were recruited among or "Quakers," and Mennonites) un­the Army's objectors. Their work prepared Their traditional rejection continued well into the 1920s. To of military service on grounds of war suffererS' relief in-Western­
conscience had not been forgotten Europe was soon added famine relief since it had la..~t been put to the test, in Russia, an.d service to refugees. during the Civil War, but there had· The service agencies thus created been little advance thought given to were never quite phased out during how that refusal to serve would best the 1920s. Gradually the peace . be expressed in another war. church agencies developed · a reputation for care and creativity inJohn H.Yoder relief, refugee and disaster services. Thus when World .War II reinstituted conscription, the
Historical Perspective 

proposal was ready that Civilian. Nor had the authorities thought of Public· Service should be the normal 
what to do with the objectors. In assignment for drafted objectors, some army camps they were dis· rather than constituting a privileged ciplined; in others simply release from detention for a few. 
segregated. Gradually the notion of Congress forbade overseas. service, alternative service arose. Some men 
so the work done was mostly in were assigned to agricultural work. forestry, agricultural extension, 
From this experience arose the dairy herd testing, and later as atten· concept of service to human need dants in public mental institutions. which the conscientious objector As more Brethren, Quaker and 
would offer in lieu of his military Mennonite youths came to be in­obligations. volved, such servic.c came to beseen Before the war was over, the as more than an alternative. way. to ~mcrican Friends' Service Commit· meet a legal requirement; it was 

Dear Editor: grcc. of our cultural, social, and religious· freedom. Perhaps the Regarding Konrady and Fahs' politician embodies all those · recent article protesting this y4=ar's responsibilities we shall assume. commencement speaker and· the And in a world where responsible process by which he is chosen: leaders are a prerequisite. to sol· I do not see how increasing.the ving many ofthe ills of humanity, a 
prestige of the University does not little exposure to the wisdom of a 
increa..-;e the prestige of its national leader might be the best 
graduates as well. This applies to send-off we cou.ld rccieve. 
all aspects ofthe institution. To say The Administration, as the think· 
that choosing a politician benefits ing, contact-seeking, growth· 
only those at the highest ail· minded or.ganism that it is should 
ministrative levels is like saying be primarily responsible for the 
that an undefeated football sea..~on ' choice. It ha..<; a collective maturity 
will benefit only the athletes and far beyond that of the student 
coaches involved. body. I doubt that a campus whose 
I disagree that a politician is .an main concerns have proven to be 
improper choice or a commence­sociaJ space and kegs could give 
ment speaker. Politics happens to long, serious consideration to this 
rule a sphere that determines the decision without generating more 
daily routine of each of our lives. controversy than Fr. Hcsburgh and 
Men like Carter, Reagan, and c6. 
Trudeau make a great impression Mark Sr;hwemler 
on systems that determine the de· AIL Class of'B2 
the pacifist's commitment to a life  was  the normal thing for  a young  3) puts the student to work for  
style ofservice.  person to do before finishing col·  seven  weeks  in  some  simple  
Progressively,  the  men  were  lege, or between completing one's  service  at  some  point of basic  
joined in volunteer service by men  education and plunging into profes·  human need;  
who had no draft obligation, and by  sion and marriage. When the draft  4) places the student  in local  
women;  volunteer  service  as  a  ended in 1946, the volunteers kept  families for board and room. Tui·  
regular  arm  of  the  church  had  coming.  tion for the Study Service Term is  
gradually come into being. The idea  Never made into a formal obliga·  the same as for a term at the Gos·  
gained currency that  to  donate  a  tion  nor centered in "missionary"  hen campus. The. only students  

Editor's Note 
This week begins a series of editorials devoted to the histori· cal, personal, and community ap· proaches to service. Whether in the military, U.S. government, religious, orprivate sector, volun· teer and mandatory service becomes a prominent concern of students entering the outside world. Throughout the week, stu· dents and faculty members will examine various service-related options and discern a meaningful outlook of the world of helping 
others. 

My draft ofthe draft 
In one of my government courses that there aren't many teary eyes these however, one would receive the other day, our professor posed when the flag goes by on the Fourth none of the economic advantages of activity, as is the case for Mormon who may graduate without it are 
·young people, the call to voluntary those with exceptional transcul· service nonetheless became a stan· tural background and those with dard element of the denominations' major disabilities. self-understanding. The fact that every student on 
One .recent development arising campus is looking either back or for· from this heritage is the "Study ward to an SST gives to both service Service Term" which for over a and transcultural understanding a decade has been standard cur· prominent place in the college com· riculum at Goshen College. That munity. term, taken sometime in the junior Frequently, the service term con· or senior year; tributes to a student's making 
1) takes the student outside the vocational decisions influenced by USA, into a context where anoth· his/her increased awareness of er language and culture take world needs. away some comfort and security; Professorjohr~ H. Yoder, a mem­
2) provides a beginning orienta· ber of the theology department, tion to the _language and culture teaches a rtmge of courses dealing ofthat country (most students go with the historical and contem­to Central American countries, porary Christian approaches to but there have been groups a..~ peace, war, and revolution. 
an interesting question. He asked ofjuly is that nobody in my genera· the Pca,:c corps ( J3000 upon 
those students to raise their hand tion ever had to serve the flag. And completion of a two-year term), or 
who believed the U.S. goverment we don't seem to reSpect those who the economic and career advantages 
should state that it will never make a did. of military service. nuclear first strike on the Soviet Uni· I would suggest that America is This is not to say that as son as we on. Many people raised their hands. still the greatest nation on earth, not have a draft the world would he safe • Then he asked how many would be just because we arc rich, powerful, for democracy. I would say the willing lO accept a draft in order to and "democratic," hut because it's greatest advantage of a make that statement believable. just plain fun to live here. We've got "comprehensive" draft is that it There were less hands. pizza, the Rocky Mountains, Rodney would be an investment by the U.S. 
Dangerfield, bikinis, the Big Apple, gov.crmcnt in the American people, 
Robert Redford, rock 'n' roll, Barry an investment which could bring
Sean F. Faircloth 
Goldwater, frisbees, ).0 Salinger, great returns in the future. Think of cold beer on hot Saturdays, tennis the situation. The Peace Corps vets
Patriotic Option 

shoes, and democracy all at the same arc all yelling about how we need to 
Now I'll tell you right off; I am a time. invest in the Third World to help the Liberal. You know me. My kind used I believe we should all put in time people and stabalizc global politics. to be quite fa..~hionable. I'm the one serving the co~ntry we arc lucky The military vets arc barking. "No, who believes in saving whales, and enough to live in. invest in arms. Defend our land. The food stamps, and natinal health care. Now this doens't mean that I want Russians arc coming!" "No!" shout I'm the one who rarely makes state· to force people to "be all that you the Vista Vets, "l..ct's take care ofour ments such as "pull yourself up by can be." people right here in America -the your bootstraps," and "the Soviets I have trouble getting up for my urban ghetto, the Appalachians." have a definite nuclear advantage," Soviet Foreign Policy class much "Wrong," argues the .CCC group, and I never imply that ketchup less listening to some army bulldog "Let's protect our forests froll) cor· should be considered to be a bark, "out ofbed soldier -now! It is porations! Litterbugs should be vegetable. Nonetheless this died-in· zero four fifty five hours. You will be hung!" the-wool Ted Kennedy lover, this in full dress· at zero five hundred You see, everybody would be yel· American who admits to having hours! Move! Move!! Move!!!" ling about something. That is passed out McGovern leaflets, this Obviously the military is not for American. Our country has recently flying flaming screaming mad bleed· everyone. Thus I provide options in seemed to have lost its adamance. ing heart liberal advocates the in· my draft of the draft. You could join If everybody had something to stitution ofa peace-time draft. the Peace Corps, or a reinstituted give to this country, then more 
Why? I'll tell you why. I believe Vista (sorry Ron), or a reinstituted people would care about what hap· 
every American should serve his Civilian Conservation Corps (you pens here and do something about country. No, I'm not kidding. I remember -FOR and building it. believe in hot dogs, apple pie, and highways and planting trees, etc.). I remember going to a Fourth of the American way. Seriously. I think In addition, one could become ex· July parade with my father when I it's funny when I hear people com· empt from direct government was a kid. And I remember a tear ac· 
plain abou.t losing their student service through some tually coning to my father's eye ­loans while at the same time they milar religious form of service how corny, how embarrassing. My don't wan~ to serve their country for (e.g. Holy Cross Associates or jesuit own Dad crying about some stupid a minute. Volunteers). flag. I don't thing that should be em· 
Even our nations poor are a hell of So I am for the draft, but in a highly barrassing anymore. a lot better off than poor people in altered form. This means lots of op· Bangladesh. There are great tions for the citizen. problems in this nation, but they The CCC and Vista arc one year Sear~ F Faircloth, a senior cannot be cured with complacency. committments, as arc many Engltsh major, plans a stint with I believe one of the biggest reasons rt:li~ious. volunteer groups. With the United States Peace Corps. 
Editorial Board Department Managers
~'Ihe _Qbset:Ver== 
The Obtert•er IS an mdependent nt•w,paper pubh,hcd by .the students of .the 
Fililnr Ill·( hie/ \hchat·l \lonk 11/IS/1/t'SS \1111/11,~<'1' Tom A1dlo lln1ver,1ty of Notre Dame du L'ar .md Samt Mary's College:;. It does not nt'(es,anly 
)/,'1/lti,J.:III,L: J:'cfi/01' I{\ an\ t'f tkrknH>l'' ( fllllmller .. l'rK ~dlllll rdk"lt thc.pol1riC's of the a<.llllnll~tration of e1thcr mstitutio11. The news i~ report· 
F.n·cu/11'<' \cu·s f:'tlllnr "'l'ill Hull 1tft't'I'(/SIII,I.i .lfllllll,i.it'l" · < 'hri' ( >w•·n cd .J\ .H curately and Js obJlX tlvdy .1s po,sd:>le. Editorials represent the opinion of 
\111 \l!·u·s Ftlllor .\targ.1re1 l·o,nH I<' t•r,.tfut'/uJ/1 .!tanager ,\l.1ura .\1urphy .1 m.JJonty of the Ed1torial Board. Co.nmentar.ie,, opiniopsand letters arc the views 
''"!1'/ . .,1:'1/ill}/' <hn' :\enllt·' I IIUilll/ln/1 .\1111111,11<'1" 1<.1\' lnglin of the1r authors. Column spa(t' " .J\'J.d.Jbll' to all members of the commun1ty. and Ftll/11/tillls l:'tli/Or. '<,;,· 1',1111 \ll"( olllll 'l'.\/t'/1/.\ .1111111/,L:t'l' 1\rmT <bkky 
the fr('(' expression of varying opin1ons on campu~. through letters, IIi en~Ol.lflged. 1-t'llllll'i"s l:'tli/111' T.1n llnl\\n 
.. -·----------~--------­

l'holol:llilol· J{.ldll'l lllouJI! Founded Novemht•r .~. 19(l6
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 'l(l556 (219) lJ9-5.~0.~ 
The Observer -An Tostal Special 
muOpJt 
How do you explain An Tostal to someone who has never ex­perienced it? There are so many events that it is hard to remember them all. Of course, no one forgets about Bookstore Basketball, Mud Volleyball, Chariot Races, Recess, UMOC or the Keg Toss. But there is also Looking for Mr. Goodbar, Tuck-in Service, Flag Foot­ball Championships, Intertube Water Polo, Picnic Games and the Road Rally. The list goes on and on, changing a little everyyear as new events are added while others 'bite the mud'. Here are some of the highlights ofAn TostaJ '82. 
keqtoss 





The Observer -An Tostal Special Monday, April 26, 1982 -page. 7 


chaRlotRaces 
.. . ,. " 
'!!:· 

•' '11\1 
-· 

tlR€ ROlt1nq photos anb layout BY Ch€Ryl €Rt€lt 
eqqtoss 

mattRess Race 


.------------------~--------~­
~~S tt0 W C ~~~iiiiSiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiioiiindiiay,iiApiirilii26ii,liiii982iiiiilipiiiiliageiiii8 

I 

Animation is sheer Fantasia 
lVJ'"alt Disney's classic filmFan­show. The vibrant colors and strong film eventually evolved into a full­W tasia has been re-released and shadows in the shots of the length feature destined to re­anyone who claims to be mildly in­musicians smooth the transitions establish a fading Mickey Mouse terested in animation should not from live-action to animation. Once above the then-popular Donald miss it. Although Leopold the animation begins, the narration Duck and Goofy. Stokowski's soundtrack of the 1940 stops and music becomes the sole Cute, dramatic~ powerful and film has been re-scored and re­language(except for a humorous in­suspenseful it is obvious why Disney recorded according to today's more terlude between Taylor and the did not want to leave this segment as sophisticated starJdards ofsound­film's "soundtrack"). a mere cartoon short. recording technology, the film Technically, the film's ac­Unfortunately, for everything so maintains its integrity and remains a complishments may never be right about the "Sorcerer's Ap­landmark achievement. surpassed. Few animating studios prentice," there is something weak 
place as much emphasis on the in the Pastoral sequence. Taken staging oflight and shadow and cer­from Beethoven's Sixth Symphony, 
tainly none are as skillful as the Dis­the music suggests an idyllic scene ney Studio was. The detail in the film offawnsand satyrs, nymphs and uni­is incredible, but it is not merely the corns. The result is an overly long se­
Dennis Ryan 
. . 

fine-line jumble ofrotoscoped quence that is always pleasing to
movte revtew 

animaton (a style where live actors look at, ifnot incoherent. There are are filmed and every &arne of the some pleasant touches such as a Billed as an adventure in sight and film is blown-up and traced onto happy-.go-lucky drunk god and a 
sound, Fantasia rarely misses on animating eels, i.e. Ralph Bakshi's bore.d Zeus throwing freshly-forged either account. The format of the Lord ofthe Kings). lightning bolts down at the revelers. film is a narrated concert ofclassical Fantasia's detail lies in delicate The sequence is not bad, but it does· pieces that suggests the. animated airbrush-work, the deft hand­not carry the same cinematic vigor images that accompany thein. It al­touched'tint ofrouge on the as the rest of the film. lows both forms to enhance each cherubs' behinds, the transparent Fantasia is a wonderful and time­other with neither dominating the paint on the fins ofgoldfish and the less film, inspiring and unbound by program. Having the music suggest gentle blending of the inksi age brackets. Although the Town the image instead ofthe image sug­processes which are virtually non­and Country theatre's sound system gest the music adds a unique feel to existent in modern animation. leaves something to be desired, the the project. As the familiar voice of By the early 1960's, the Disney film more than repays the admission 
B
efore coming to Notre Dame I preppy cheerleaders with them.
Deems Taylor, veteran radio­studio had perfected a method of price. Interestingly, Walt Disney had never heard ofthe During the game the cheerleaderscommentator ofthe Metropolitan reproducing the individual animat­also found the experiment reward­Bookstore Basketball tournament. encouragingly rooted for them with
Opera, explains, some pieces of ing eels using Xerox process, thus ing and exciting (alth~gh the But when a friend ofmine asked ifI'd such cheers as: ·
music tell a story, others suggest a eliminating the costly hand-tracing timing ofits releaSe, d ing the es­like to play on his team, I had to take "Let's go, go, go! Let's score, score,
one and others allow for abstract in­and painting of the animators calation of tensions in t e Europe of notice. score, so we can go back and study
terpretations. original sketches and changing the 1940, did hurt the box office some more!"
Fantasia contains seven major tone and character of their artwork receipts) and beganFantasia 2. Un­"Harass them, harass them, make
segments covering the works of forever. fortunately, by the time it was well such major figures as Stravinsky, Fantasia is a welcome return to past the planning ;tage, the project Marc Jtamirez them relinquish the ball!" 
"Study every weekend, never getBeethoven and Tchaikovsky, oc­the older style and the care and ef­was scrapped for financial reasons. 

a date! Integral, integral, differen­casionally combining two artists' fort behind the images is evide.nt at One ofthe abandoned segments 

features 
tiate!"

works into one selection or creating every turn in the movie. eventually reached the screen in "The Esophagus Constrictors"
a medley ofone artist's major works. Perhaps the most successful seg­Disney's pleasant Peter and the "What's the name ofyour team?" I lost their first game, and so they
Each selection begins with live­ment in Fantasia is the "Sorcerer's Wolf. so innocently inquired. were able to resume their studying
action scenes ofthe orchestra Apprentice" starring Mickey Mouse Fantasia does remain and its re­"4Q2," came the answer. with no delay.
tuning up and Stowkowski conduct­with music by Paul Dukas. Interest­release proves that despite all the ad­I took offense and was about to The only unenjoyable moment of
ing. The lighting here is strange and ingly, it was originally planned to vance in computer graphics and respond most uncordially when I the tournament for me came during
fascinating -Disney's 1940 version distribute it as a short cartoon but drafting equipments, those guys at realized that that was his team's a game last Monday. On one team
ofa slow-down psychedelic light the idea ofan all-music, no dialogue Disney are still the best. name. was a monster ofa center who, I chose not to play in this par­someone informed me, was an ex­
ticular instance but decided rather football player, but I swore that he to experience my first bookstore was a runaway contestant from the
Slow Children rises frotn fire 
S
tournament from the stands. As it "Strongest Men in the World" com­turned out, I could have played on petition. Obviously upset by what low Children, by the duo Slow neighbor's fire in 1976. Prior to that, film projects fell somewhat to the he felt were bad calls at one end of
his team and still have witnessed the Children, mixes spirts ofpic­Pal Shazar was concentrating on il­wayside. majority ofthe tournament from the the court, he fumed when an oppos­turesque lyrics that remind one of stands.
lustrations for rock publications and In 1978,Jet Records in England ing player accused him of the same emotions, with stark singing and Andrew Chinich found himself in I enjoyed the tournament, call.
released a single, "Stairing at the Los Angeles working as an assistant Ceiling"/"That Statue Moved." In discovering that most ofthe teams' "Let he who has not sinned cast Ed Konrady director for K Zanussi. 1980, Ensign Records signed them names were at least slightly unusual, the first stone," he quoted. This Living in the same apartment if not the teams themselves. "Agent brought titters from the crowd.
and released.Slow Children in Lon­Orange and the After-Effects," "John 
building in West Hollywood, they don. The single "Talk about Horses" Then this hulk ofa player began to
record review met when Pal's next-door neigh­Belushi Takes the Pepsi Challenge," officiate the game as well. He called
received some airplay.ln 1981, theybor's apartment caught fire and they and "Nude Waterskiers for Christ'' one opposing player out ofbounds,
recorded a single "Spring in Fialta," sparse phrases of music that · decided to lend a couple ofhands. and afier Ensign arranged a distribu­were a few ofmy printable favorites. and when the "call" was contested, 
compares favorably to a radical Cars' They met and started writing togeth­"John Belushi" wasn1t the only well­he grabbed the ball, wrapped it in his 
tion deal with RCA Records, they album, one that deals with deeper t;r; eventually their music and the known name to get picked on, as I arms as ifit were the. only ball in the
remastered and resequenced Slow emotional twinges oflife. evolution ofSlow Children became also saw team names such as "Anwar world;then stormed down to the
Children, dropping two songs and The duo arose from the ashes ofa their top priority, and their art and Sadat and I Love A Parade" and other end of the court. No one tried
adding "Spring in Fialta." "James Brady and the Washington to stop him. Calling the armed forces · 
The singles previously released Bullets." Some ofthe team names seemed a bit much to do for a

are all tightly woven, articulate en­

were actually disgusting once I sat Bookstore Basketball game. 
capsulations offeelings, situations 

down and pondered them for a mo­To one spectator who was
and people, a theme that runs 

ment, such as ...well, you'll have to criticizing the manner in which hethroughout their songs. 
use your imagination. "Five ... was acting, the hulk responded with
"Staring at the Ceiling" presents 

Kids" was a team that had hoped that an invitation to a one-on-one con­
the feelngs ofa psychologically dis­

we at The Observer would use only frontation immediately following 
turbed mind, showing its particular 

their initials when reporting their the game.
strains of thought, emphasis, and 

score. But, unfortunately (for them), Eventually this player's team lost,needs. 
they found US clever "kids" evading and the hulkish player seemed to
"Talk about Horses" describes the 

ridiculous schemes such as that. take it rather well. But then he
frustrations ofbeing unable to see 

"The Esophagus Constrictors" strolled over to the opposing team's
through another's small talk, and 

were an interesting team: Their uni­cheeringsection and walked over to
trying to get in touch with them. 

forms consisted ofwhite dress. the one girl who had cheered against
"Spring in Fialta" is a fast song that 

shirts, ties, thick-rimmed glasses and him the most. The man who had
Europeans have been dancing to, al­

calculators strapped to their belts. quotedJesus Christ proceeded to
most humorously reflectingthe 

At various intervals throughout the turn the other cheek by mooning
song's emphasis ofbreaking the dai­

game they would call time-outs in this girl in front ofeveryone.
ly grind, not being afraid to do what 

order to have study breakJ!. They It was just one of many unusual 
you want to, and most importantly, 

brought all oftheir books with them, experiences during the tournament.
enjoying it. · but somehow they forgot to bring a I found Bookstore Basketball to be

Slow Chilren can best be 

dictionary. So, during one study one ofthe besrevents this year. I can described as a new-wave, break, team member Mark English enjoy players showing their bright
thinkingman'.s Cars. No easily hum­

cried out to team coach jim Suther­sides with spectacular efforts or
mabie tunes, no top-40 radio fodder, 

land, "Hey, coach! Go get us a comedic and tasteful histrionics. 
but good solid songs that may end 

dictionary! We don't know the But, as rare as they are, I can do with­
up,being ignored by the masses only 

meaning ofthe word 'defeat!"' out certain players showing their
because it is appropriate for only a 

They even brought their own dark sides with a moon. 
few. 



.. 

Sports Bri~/§ 
Monday, April 26, 19s2 -page 9 

===:~~~'~·J;i~.,.~.7(>~b~~~-<:.,.~~·~e~r~a~n~d~J~i~_,<=.~
..~=~=s~=)(=.~~·a~t~e~,,~J~,,~.<·~s~si=::}t::iJr:::S:t::~::l\l[::::<=::::t:~::2U[[l:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Baseball streaks dominated the news arountt hoth 
T-wisters take-won1en's cro-wn 
leagues ye~>terday. Three-time Cy Young Award winner Steve 
Carlton won his first game of the season after four straight losses as the Philadelphia Phillies defeated St. Louis 8-4. The loss snapped the Cardinals' 12-game winning streak. Dennis Martinez won or the I 1 th straight time at Baltimore's Memorial Stadium as the Orioles downed the Chicago White Sox 2· l. A single that extended Eddie Murray's hitting streak to 18 games, and a two run homer by Rick Dempsey were the only base hits for Baltimore. A Willie Randolph homer in the seventh inning broke a I.1 tie, and a three-game losing streak for the New York Yankees, as they topped the Detroit Tigers 3·1. The San Diego Padres 1 0-game winning streak was in no danger, as the Padres and the Atlanta Braves were rained out. -Associated Press 
A flooded golfcoursecaused another delay in the weather-plagued New Orleans Open yesterday and set the tourna­ment schedule back another full day. The $400,000 event has yet to see two full rounds completed, and Is now scheduled to end tomor· row. All of that, ofcourse, is on the condition that there is no more rain, and the Lakewood Country Club is playable. At the last stoppage in play, Scott Hoch held a one-stroke lead over Bob Schearer at S-under par. -Associated Press 
John McEnroe wm attempt to become the first three­time winner of the Dallas World Championship of Tennis Finals when he meets No. 2-ranked Ivan Lend! tonight. The match, for a S150,000 first prize, marks the first finals appearance for Lend!. He has won 78 of his last 81 matches. McEnroe advanced to the finals with a 6-4, 6-4, 7-6 win over Eddie Dibbs, while Lend! crushed Vijay Armltraj, 6·1, 6-0, 7 ·5, in the shortest match in WCT history. -As­sociated Press 
An infield grounder by Phil Dingle drove Rick Chryst home with the winning run as the Notre Dame baseball team capped a very successful weekend with a 2·1 squeaker over Detroit yesterday onJake Kline Field. The Irish lost the first game ofyester· day's doubleheader, 5-3. On Saturday, however, they manhandled Dayton, 17·1, and 7·3. The next game for the Irish will be at home Tuesday, when they host a doubleheader against Bowling Green. ­The Observer 
The lacrosse battle for first place will continue this week, and Notre Dame holds the upper hand. The Irish defeated Ashland 17·9 to remain in the top spot in the University Division of the Midwest Lacrosse league this weekend. Going into the weekend, Notre Dame, Ashland and Ohio State were all tied for first. Wednes· day, the Buckeyes will play here. -The Observer 
Mark McMahon raised his season record at the men's No. 1 single position to 24-2 as the Notre Dame tennis team split its two weekend matches. Friday, the Irish topped Marquette 8·1, but dropped a 6-3 decision to Kalamazoo College yesterday. Notre Dame is now 18·8 on the spring, and 21 ·9 overall. -The Observer 
Notre Datne's golfteam contin~es action in the Mid· American Invitational today. The 54-hole event is being held at Wes· tern Michigan University. -The Observer 
ByJANE HEALEY 
Sports Writer 
On a dreary, overcast Sunday, Women's Bookstore ended its 32· team tourney. The first Saint Mary's team ever to win the girls' version of Bookstore was crowned champion as "The Twisters" defeated a bat· tered and tired "Double StuffOreo" squad by a score of21·19. 
"The Twisters" gained their spot in the championship by solidly defeating "The Farley Five" in Friday's semifinal game. The key to the win was the good physical con­dition of the Saint Mary's crew as they simply tired out the girls from Farley. 
"Double StuffOreos" earned their opposing rol<: in the final game by upsetting one of the pre-tourney favorites, "Two Limps and Three Pups," 21 · 12. The losers actually defeated their own cause with some sloppy ball-handling. The winners put together a good team effort to come out on top. 
On Sunday, the pre-game predic­tions were heavily swayed towatrd "The Twisters." "Double Stuff Oreos" were playing without Lisa Johnson, who was a dominant force inside for her team. Anne Lynch replaced Johnson, who had fallen ill in the morning. Lynch is an able bas· ketball player, but she had not seen any action in the tournament, and came in cold offthe sidelines. 
Early in the game, "The Twisters" had a 4-3 advantage when Cindy Crennell of "Double Stuff Oreos" went down in pain on the court. M· ter a long injury time-out, it seemed certain that Crennell -with a pos­sible ligament injury in her knee ­would not return to the game. "Double StuffOreos" were forced to play with only four players. 
It seemed as ifthe game was being placed in the laps of"The Twisters." But something strange happened. "Double Stuff Oreos began to play like a team possesed, as a spurt of energy burst into them. 
Penny Epps rebounded out to a lightning-fast Pinky Pitchford, whose shot tied the score at eight. Maureen Milota added some inside shots and Lynch popped in three quick outside baskets to make the score 14·9 in favor ofthe "Oreos." 
But Cheryl Sweeny and group would not give up. Cheered on by a large group ofSaint Mary's fans, "The Twisters" began battling back. 
At 16-15, the "Oreos" had the lead, but were losing it quickly. Crenell came back into the game, planting herself to the side of the other basket. She was able to drop in three shots from her immobile spot. 
After tying the game at 17, Elaine Suess and Nancy Eide began a defensive clinic. Three stolen balls produced three big baskets. "Double Stuff Oreos" added two more points, but on another Suess steal Eide put in the winning basket. 
If one part of the game could be singled out as the key element, the foul situation would be it. "Double Stuff Oreos" were in foul trouble from the first whistle. They had six fouls before "The Twisters" com­mitted their first. "The Twisters" were in the bonus before the first half was over, and though they con-
Sportsboard 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Second Hell EeatNATIONAL LEAGUE 
w L Pet. GB
E..l Detroit 11 6 .647

w L Pet. GB Boston 9 6 .600 1St. Louis 13 4 .765 

Milwaukee 8 6 571 1.5
Montreal 8 5 .615 3 Cleveland 6 8 .429 3.5
New York 9 7 .563 3.5 
New York 6 8 429 3.5
Pinsburgh 5 8 .385 6 Toronto 5 11 .313 5.5
Chicago 6 11 .353 7 Philadelphia 4 11 .267 8 
Baltimore 4 10 .286 5.5 Weill
Weal Atlanta 13 3 .813 
Calitorma 13 5 .722 Chicago 9 4 .692 1.5
San D1ego 11 4 .733 1.5 Los Angeles 8 9 .471 5.5 
Kansas City 9 6 .600 2.5 Seattle 9 10 .474 4.5
San Francisco 6 10 .375 7 Cincinnati 6 11 .353 7.5 
·oakland 8 10 .444 5 Texas 6 8 .429 5
Houston 6 12 .333 8 Minnesota 7 12 368 6.5 
Sundey'a Reaulta Sundey'a R..ulta San Diego at Atlanta, ppd. rain Boston 5, Toronto 4 (12) Montreal5. New York 2 New York 3, Detroi11 Philadelphia 8, St. LOUIS 4 BaltJmore 2, Ch•cago 1 ChJcago 5, Pittsburgh 3 Kansas C1ty 6. Cleveland 3 Cincinnati 4, Houston 3 ( 1 O) MilWaukee 11, Texas 6 San Francisco 6, Los Angeles 3 Califorma 5. Oakland 1 
Today'a Gem•• Seallle 5, Mmnesola 4 (11) Pittsburgh (Candelana 0·1) at Atlanta (Mahler 2·0) Todey'a Gemeo Houston (Ruhle 0-2) at St. Louis (Mart• 2·1) Boston (Hurst 0-0) at ChJcago (Escarrega 0·0) 
Only games scheduled Boston (Rainey 0-1) at Ch1cago (Koosman 0·0) 2nd 
nected on only two of nine foul shots, the fouls kept the ball at their end of the court. 
The MVP Award goes to a girl who led "The Twisters" in more than one respect. She not only averaged 6. 7 ppg, with 40 points in six games, but she was also a definite stabilizing in· fluence on the court. 
The first MVP In Women's Bookstore is Cheryl Sweeney from Sant Mary's College. 
The Ms. Bookstore Is a difficult award to give. Following the men's model, Ms. Bookstore is a non­varsity athlete displaying the spirit of An Tostal and good basketball talent. But there was not simply one girl who did this. So Ms. Bookstore goes to two girls -[Maureen Milota and Penny Epps of "Double Stuff Oreos." 
Congratu;ations should go to "The Twisters," and to Commis­sioner Nancy Renz for running a great tournament. 
... Defense ­
continuedfrompage 12 
Phil Carter didn't find the 
endzone Saturday, but he did lead".lll 
rushers with 60 yards in 16 at· 
tempts. 
"Hunter and Howard, Bell and Carter did a great job out there today," offered Faust. "I was very impressed Vl:'ith all ofthem." 
But, like last Saturday, it was the work of the defense that caught Faust's eye. "They really looked good again," he said, "and I thought they played very aggresivc:ly. There was some good hitting today, and our linemen seem to be getting ·~ quicker." 
Tackle Bob Clasby was a standout, but the performance of the entire secondary pleased the coach. Dane Spielmaker grabbed two intercep· tions, Dave Duerson and justin Dris· coli, one. 
Placekicker Mike Johnston couldn't connect on field goals of 39, 30, 54 and 52 yards, but made good on his last attempt from 39 yards out. 
Strong safetyJoeJohnston was the only casualty -he went down with an ankle injury, but should be back in a few days. 
The scrimmage marked the last major tune-up before next Satut· day's Blue-Gold game. The Irish practice Monday, Wednesday and Friday before wrapping up spring drills in the intra-squad contest. 
The Observer will accept classif1eds Mon· day through Fnday, 10 a.m. to 4 30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next issue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to insertron. All classif1eds must be prepatd, 
erther in person or through the ma1L

Classifieds 

NICE HOUSES FURNISHED CLOSt: TO 
2 student houses tor rent on Notre Dame NEED 2 RIDERS TO INDPLSIDEPAUW Special Dlacounta tor Notre Dame NO FOR NEXT YEAR 2773604 Ave. One 4-stu. one 5-stu house. WithJn faculty on computers and penpheral
LEAVE 4123 BILL 7289 
I.____N_O_TIC_E_S--.JI I LOST/FOUND \ walking distance Avail lall semester 82 products, pnnters, modems, etc Hewlett· For Rent: Student Hous1ng-rated Call evemngs 272·8870. 
.FOR TYPING CALL 288·5855 Packard. Zemth FOURWAY COM­
supenor-summer and/or fall. Clean. sate. 
PUTER PRODUCTS, INC., 52758 US 31 laundry, utilities. $100/mo total. 291· R1de or nders east on 1-80 as far as N.J North (Aero..from North VIllage Mall)1405 

4122·4125. Call Joe 1409 277·7720.
FOUND A bracelet at the Stanford Vegetable party. To claim call8738. 
HAIRCUTS! ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND 
$6 FOR GIRLS·· LOT OF EXPERIENCE s~bi~~~•ng C~,;;~~~. Vi~;;, A~; .J~~. •Aug WANTED R•de needed to Toledo on Fnday, Apnl IN STYLING, ROTC AND PERSONALLY Reduced Rent. Call Anne Or Mary 4637 23, and back to NO Saturday. Apnl 24.
JESIGNED CUTS FOR YOUR FACE (SMC) THE BEST STEREO GEAR AT THE 
Call Denny at 1184
AND HAIR CALL MICHOLE AT 7951 LOWEST PRICES, BOSE H K. JVC ALL
ATTENTION: Tow~ver "borrowed" my Professor reqUires parH1me typ1st who wallet and watch from the student 
TOP BRANDS OFFERED AT SPECIAL

Furmshed House tor next year · 6 bdrm 2 has access to Commodore CBM Model aecurrty. The watch haa great sentimental 8032 System Send specJfiCS to PO Box 
STUDENT RATES CALL JBbath $540 per mo. 717 St. Louis Call fom 

Expenenced typ1s1 WJII do typ1ng. Call value. and It would taka me about 611 McGann 277-3461 or 272·9299 77, Notre Dame, IN 46556. I FOR SALE I 8232,8~28:~213FORDETAILSxxx287·5162. Good speller weel<s to replace all of the stuff in the wal­
let. No questions will be asked ... .. ................ DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO SUMMER SUBLESSEES WANTED! DAVENPORT, IOWA, APRIL 23-25. Comfortable. fully lurmshed, 2 bdrm apt •n WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL 
SUMMER WORK $$$ NO students avg. 
Hickory Village. If Interested call Carol or CHERYL, 214-45211. USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED' I. TICKETS 
I

LOST: 1 pr. of eyeglasses with black M1chele at 272·9603
4000$ last summer travel expenence 
case. Between or m LaFortune and SAT SUN 9-7 CASPERSON 1303 Deoperete-need one or mare gradua·send name address and phone no. to 
Cavanaugh. Help I Call Ed x1470 BUCHANAN RD . NILES. liOn tlcketa. Call2n-&032. SUMMER SUBLET 1258 PORTAGE 
P 0 BOX 435 N D ,Ind. 40556 1VE GOT MONEY. SELL ME YOUR EX­
... .............. .... ........ .. 
TRA GRAD TICKETSIII CALL BRIAN atAVE GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD t or 2 

Need nde to PURDUE tor Grand Pnx on FOR SALE MED SIZE FRIDGE 19 INCH Vou.., heard about Jt... you've been persn apt. call289 5931 Fn. Apnl 23. Can leave anyt1me. Call B&W TV CALL 1494 or 1538 MIKE or 1928 wall•ng all year tor tl...hnally, now io your BOB
Sherri 68~~.•,~...~...-------I NEED TWO OR THREE TIX FOR KEN­
chance to -IIIIU "Gar!lar'' Glltd*in 
FOR RENT 
Be yo~r own boss. Comfortable 5 your old refrigerators wanted. small size. NY ROGERS. (ON MAIN FLOOR IF 
ae110n th11 BEAUTIFUL FORD FIEST A 1980 w1th
bedroom. completely furnished house tor working order.282-1777 POSSIBLE) PLEASE CALL JOHN x317S 
5500 mJies, call277·4413 mghts or mor­
~,~o~ampu~~..':~~~-3942 
nings

.' . . . . . .... . . . . . . . . P~;;;,~ .. 'f<~~i~d .i~ .d~~~ .. ~~;;, c~r .. t~ W•llexchangf' BEER or$ tor 1 graduatiOn 
LOST: Navy blue NIKE sweet penta at N.D. Ave. Apts.· Apts. avaJiable for sum-ticket Laura 6816 
Philadelphia week of May 10 and return

Stapan Coutto duoog Bookstore Besket· ... · ..... ·· · .... It~ sp;•ng!lll T•,;,~ i~ i~'•nk STEREOS
mer another car to South Bend within ap­

bell. Cell Tim 61184 4 Bdrm N Shore $270 mo total. Call Patty 160/month proximately 30 days. Call 232·0453 Name brands at great prices. Now is tha Wanted 2 ND Grad. TIX Call and name3193228735 Call refunded 
and next school year 234-6647 lime. call M•ke all087 your pnce Dan 283-4639 
before April 23. 


The Observer -Sports Monday, April 26, 1982 -page 10 
Thoughtson the n1orning after 
Bookstore Ba~ketball. I first heard about the tourna­ment Juring my senior year in high school. It didn't sound like a whole lot -just a fun diversion from academia during the springtime. 
Boy, was I wrong. 

Since arriving on campus in 1980, I've heard a lot about the tournament. What I heard interested me, so I decided to apply for the job of commissioner. But it wasn't until this past week that I learned what
... 
Bookstore Basketball is all about. 

Sure, I'm familiar with the story of the tournament's birth. In 1972, Fritz Hoefer, An Tostal Chairman, decided that the spring festival needed a new event. He had participated in intramural basketball at Notre Dame, but he always wanted to play against the varsity players. So it was for slightly selfish reasons that Hoefer started the Bookstore Basketball Tournament. 
But that story never meant much to me until this week, when I watched a Sectional Final game between "Take This Ball and Shove It II" and "Twinkie and the Creamers." "Twinkie ..." was one ofthe surprise teams of the tournament, having won five games without the benefit ofa single varsity athlete. The five freshmen had won the support of many onlookers with their hustle and team play. All of Morrissey Hall was behind them. 
"Take This Ball ...," on the other hand, was a strong team. Led by Mike Mitchell, they would eventually ad­vance to the Final Four of this tournament. 
Being the closest thing to a star on the team, Bentley
-
Edmonds drew the uneviable task ofguarding Mitchell, the captain of the 1981-82 Fighting Irish and perhaps the best outside shooter in the tournament. I wish every player in the tournament could have seen the excitement on the face of Bentley Edmonds while he did his best to stop Mitchell. Benley was playing the game ofhis life, and was determined to keep Mitchell from single-handedly defeating his team. While I watched Bentley and his teammates, it dawned on me. "This is what Fritz had in mind," I thought. Bentley, ofcourse, was unable to keep Mitchell from scoring. And his team was unable to stop "Take This 
Dove Dziedzic 
Bookstore Commissioner Tourney Talk 
Ball ..."from advancing to the Sweet Sixteen. 
But that isn't the important part. What's important is that Bentley and his teammates had the opportunity to spoil Mitchell's fun. If it weren't for Bookstore Basket­ball, Mike Mitchell would never know (or care) that Bentley Edmonds plays basketball. 
After the game, Mitchell shook Bentley's hand. "Good game," he said. "Thanks," Bentley said. "You too." It's a good thing that Fritz had that selfish streak in him. 
Commissioner Emeritus Rob Simari says that the best part of the job is working with the people. He couldn't be more correct. I haven't experienced as much outpouring of energy on campus since the end of the football season. 
Running the world's largest basketball tournament is no easy task Ofcourse, it wouldn't be possible without the dedication of the entire staff. Rich O'Connor, Betsy K.lug, Skip Desjardin, Brian Reimer and Lee Manfred all worked very hard OVfr the past four weeks. 
There were 452 Bookstore games this year, each of which required a scorekeeper. Will Hare, Cathy Chopp, Elaine Lack, Anne Hanson and Gina Crinella did an ex­cellent job ofcoordinating the effort for Rich and Betsy. 
The referees have the thankless job of the tourna­ment. Once again, they did a teriffic job under less-than-teriffic conditions. 
The last word of thanks goes to Commissioner Emeritus Rob Simari. Rob was in a tough position this year. It was his duty to simultaneously tutor me and watch me. While I had a relatively free hand in organi.z­ing the tournament, Rob would have taken the flack if something went wrong. Thanks to him, nothing went wrong. 

Let's see, it was Billy, then Bob, then Billy again, then Gene, then Bob again andnow Gene again. You can't tell the managers with­out a scorecard. ( AP Photo) 
Yanks oust Lemon, reinstate Michael 
NEW YORK ( AP) -George whole season. Steinbrenner has done it again. "No one is more appreciative of 
Bob Lemon was fired as manager Lem's great loyalty to the organiza­of the New York Yankees last night, tion than I am. He has always been the American League club an-loyal to the Yankees and to me in nounced. Lemon will be replaced by whatever role he hao; been asked to former Yankee Manager Gene Mic-assume." hael. When the Yankees announced 
Steinbrenner, the owner of the during the winter that Michael, 43, Yankees, made the announcement would succeed Lemon for the 1983 in a statement in which he said season, Michad's contract was ex­Lemon would return to his duties as tended through the 198'; season. He the Yankees' chiefscout. had been acting as a scout. 
Michael took over the Yankee 

1 ]' £ / h . · · managing job from Dick Howser to 
· · · ;ee t at tt tS tn start the 1981 season. He was fired 
on Sept. 6, when Lemon took over. 

the best interests The managerial stint was the second 
for Lemon, who also had managed 
the Yankees for the la~t part of the 

Ofthe c/ub. . . ' 1978 season and the first part of 
'1 · 1979. 
The Yankees said Lemon would 

return to the West Coast as chief Michael had been designated as scout, a position he held before Lemon's successor during the win-becoming manager for the second 
ter meetings last December, with time. 
Lemon to return to his scouting "Like Lem, we are all disappointed 
duties, but Steinbrenner said at the in the slow start of the club," said 
time that would not happen until the Steinbrenner, whose Yankees were 
1983 season. 6-8 after a .3'-I victory yesterday over 
In h,is statement last night, Detroit. "Our entire organization Steinbrenner said, "It is just that I feels that we have the talent to win. feel that it is in the best interests of This is .the deepest and best the club -that this change be made balanced team we have had in some now. I have discussed it with Lem. years. It is the players who are not He understands my feelings even producing the wins, and perhaps though I had promised him the this change will get them going."
'---....;;_______________..;;,...._..;;____;;._;;__..J 

...~ ......................-~ ........................~.. .. 
i 
Rocco's Hair Styling i 531 N. Michigan St.,, South Bend : Phone-233-4957 i 
;r. l ! 


'\ 

Ihe~rver======================================== 
~~4()l~~•t===============================M=o=n=d=a=y=,A=p=r=il=2=6=,=19=8=2===p=a=g=e=l=l


Doonesbury ------. 
II.HAT IXJ THeYIIIAN11 In; A 4000-MII£ WYI/6'3 llJ 
TIE FIJ/.KLANPSl 7lEYC4N'T 



Michael Molinelli 

The Daily Crossword 
~-+---1--+-+---i .,....-t-~1--+-+---i 
©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 

Garry Trudeau 
~. 
813 RIGHT 
8.4CI<.. 


r: 

TEL~ 
C.N£ U'i>. 
ur. ME· 

~IKE' A (,RflPU ·
roo 

ATING :':>fNIOR f 

ACROSS 24 Case for 1 Chinese toilet tea articles 4 Computer 25 Swellings input 27 Walk a· Golfer unsteadily Julius 32 Sets 13 Celt · 34 Petal 14 Of an age essence: 
15 Solo var. 16 Even in 36 American Monte Carlo patriot 17 Venus de -37 Puts more 18 Make a move bullets in return in a gun "19 Semester 39 National 20 Storied 41 Altitude: slogan, abbr. with 54A 42 Relative 22 American of a via violinist 44 Foretoken
Friday's Solution 

45 ·Directs 47 Lassoes 49 Maple genus 51 Gladiator's 
milieu 54 See 20A 58 Horne 
of song 60 Wide awake 61 Particle 62 Like Nar· 
cissus 63 Sated 64 Melody 65 .Lanchester 
of films 66 Wild action 67 Hebrew 
measure 68 Descry 
DOWN 1 Zoosights 2 " ...giveme 
back my-!" 
3 Plautus quote, with 28D 
4 Claim as due 5 Seed 
covering 6 Highest 7 Way up 8 Spanish· 
speaking district 9 Butterine 10 Horse 
1
f THINK 
~RE
I HAVC: 
WP.S
TO GO HIWIN(,
1\::lME f\tiD fUt,L,&. >;;!Ct<... 
I 


-Campus 
• 
Noon -Discussion with Alger Hiss, former United Nations and Yalta Conference delegate, Chautauqua Ballroom. 

•4 
p.m. -Music Colloquim, "Invitatory Psal· mody in the Old Roman Tradition" Prot: Eugene Leahy, ND, Room 124 Crowley Hall 

•4:30 
p.m. -Biology Seminar, "Vertical zona· tion of mosses on Sphagnum hummocks: a physiological paradox resolved" Dr. john Titus, SUNY at Bringamton, Room 2778 Galvin Ufe Sciences Center, Sponsored by Department of Biology 

•7 
p.m. -FUm, "Radio On", Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by COTH, I 1.00 

•9 
p.m. FUm, "Perceval", Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by COTH, Sl.OO 


T.V. Tonight 

Monday, April26 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. !O:OOp.m. 
10:30p.oi. 
ll:OOp.m. 11:30p.m. 
16 Project Peacock "Side by Side" 22 Private Benjamin 
28  Today's FBI  
34  Channel  34  Auction  "Up, llp  and  
Away"  

22 Report to Murphy 
22 MASH 
28 ABC Monday Night ·Movie "The Babysitter" 
22 Making the Grade 
16 Debbie Boone's One Step Closer 
22 Lou Grant 
16 News Center 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
16 Tonight Show 
22 Quincy and Columbo 
28 ABC News Nightline 
28 ABC Movie: "Death of Ocean View Park" 16 Late Night with David Letterman 
Int'1 colloquium 

Several of America's noted educators have been invitedto participate in a University ofNotre Dame colloquium, "Diplomacy· and International Politics,'' honoring Stephen D. Kertesz, a former Hungarian diplomat and a retired Notre Dame faculty member, on April 27. The day-long program in the Center for Continuing Education will conclude with a discussion of the nuclear threat by Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president 
Kenneth W. Thompson of the University of Vir­ginia: will open the colloquium with a talk, "Unity and Contradiction in Theory and Practice of Inter­national Relations." joining him in this discussion will be Thomas Stritch, john J. Kennedy and Peter Moody, all of the Notre Dame faculty. Robert F. Byrnes of Indiana University will deliver the tribute to Kertesz at a noon luncheon. 
john C. Campbell, emeritus member of The Council on Foreign Relations, wlll lead the after. noon dlscuss~on of "Diplomacy and Great Power Politics." Also participating will be George Brinkley, Michael Francis and Alan Dowty ofNotre Dame's Department of Government and Interna­tional Relations. 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty 32 years, Kertesz is an international lawyer educated in Budapest, Paris, the Hague, Oxford, Geneva and Yale. As a foreign minister ofHungary he worked to implement international agreements that overcame national antagonisms and established ties for long-term cooperation. 
Sponsor of the annual program is Notre Dame's Committee on International Relations. 
......................................................................................: 
Notre Dame Student Union presents:  ...  
ALGER HISS on  
tThe McCarthy Era'  
-Former United Nations Advisor  
-New Deal Activist  
-Delegate to Yalta Conference  

.Tuesday, Apri/27 8:00PM Memoria/library Auditorium:· 
. .
.............................................................. ........................
~ 
11 Formerly 12 Coterie 13"1-no 
kick..." 21 Bizarre 23 Ponselle 
· or Bonheur 26 Orient 28 See 3D 29 Weight 
allowance 30 Verve 31 Uncle or 
aunt: abbr. 32 Money 33 Robert­35 Hairdo 37 -adjudicata 38 Kindof 
dancing 40 Performer 43 Mistake 46 Support 
beam 
48 Arnie, the 
golfer 50 Muse 52 Grid Hall 
of Farner 
53 Flavoring plant 54 Seasoned 
stew 55 Tide 56 Gaelic 57-Ranger 59 Literary · 
collection 60 Rudiment 

·--------------------------------~-~-~ 
DisCOlJJlt Theatre Tickets · are Available at the Student Union Ticket Office 
Park $1.75 

Monday, April 26, 1982 -page 12 
Bookstorefinal 

Full House upsets O'Rourke 

ByWILL HARE 
Sports Writer 
For a while yesterday, one might have thought the Bookstore Basket­ball XI tournament championship game would end in overtime -just like last year's 22-20 victory for the Re-Classified Nads. 
But once the game was tied up for the seventh time (this time at 16), aggressive defense and a power game anchored by Tony Hunter and John Schaefer helped "Full House" pull away to a 21-17 triumph over "Eddie O'Rourke and the Travelling Stragglers." Together Hunter and Schaefer muscled down 21 rebounds as "Full House" captured the crown of the largest basketball 
tournament in the world ( 453 
teams). 
"I definitely think controlling the 
boards was the difference in the 
game," said (iunter. "We saw them 
play before and knew the big guy 
(O'Rourke center Ed Hjerpe) was 
tearing down the boards." 
Hunter, who was named Tourna­
ment Co-MVP along with teammate 
Gregg Williamson, hit 8-of-19 shots 
from the field to lead his club. Wil­
liamson chipped in with five points 
and Dave Duerson had four for the 
winners. 
Both Hunter and Williamson were 
All-State players in high school, with 
Hunter starting for Cincinnati Moel­
ler in Ohio, and Williamson winning 
a state championship in Michigan 

Scrimmagegoes into overtime 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

Irish head coach Gerry Faust had nearly every detail planned for Saturday's controlled scrimmage, but he didn't count on his defense throwing him offschedule. 
After more than an hour-and-a­half of creating game-like situations -starting offenses from almost every yard-line, running two-minute drills, and setting up kicking at­tempts covering half the field ­Faust needed to extend the session in the Stadium for another forty-five minutes. 
"We had it set up so that when a unit didn't make a first down, they were out. We weren't getting enought plays in, and I wanted to see more." 
The overtime work finally un­tracked the offense, as four ofthe af­ternoon's five touchdowns came during that last leg. 
"We really started moving the ball well during that last half-hour," he noted. 
And Blair Kiel, who got off to a sluggish start, caught fire near the end, completing his final four tosses, and directing a pair of touchdown drives his last two times at the helm. 
"He just keeps getting better and better," praised Faust. 
The junior quarterback made it clear he is the man to beat at that position. With the first offense most of the scrimmage, he completed six of I 1 in the air for 92 yards. 
One of those included an im­pressive seven-yard play-action scoring pass to tight end Tony Hun­ter. That capped a five-play, 17-yard drive against the No. 1 defense. 
Kiel's second touchdown march, coming against the No. 2 defense, began on the 50, and included a 29­yard strike to split end Mike Favorite. Greg Bell crossed the goal­line five plays later. 
Ken Karcher had some trouble 
SeniorJim O'Hara kept the secon­opposite the first defense, but 
dary busy Saturday. Three of his five managed two scores against the 
drives ended in interceptions, but second unit his last couple of times 
he managed to complete half of his

in charge. 16 passes for 77 yards, and took the 
Starting from the 17, the t1rst drive first offense twenty yards for a score took just four plays, but was aided by (Bell from the two) against the No. I an interference call on fourth down. defense. Bell plunged into the endzone from 
0'Hara also moved the team 60 
the one. 
yards during the two-minute drill before time ran out 10 yards shy of

Spring Football '82 
the endzone. Most of O'Hara's yardage came from connections with Hunter, who

Karcher's second score began at seemed in perfect form despite themidfield and also took four plays, ankle injury that slowed him last two passing, including a 20-yard week. He led all receivers with sixtouchdown strike to Joe Howard on receptions for 53 yards. Howardthe day's last play. 
caught three for 56 yards.

The sophomore signal caller finished five of 18 in the air for 57 
See DEFENSE, page 9 
yards. 


playing for Orchard Hills St. Mic­were just too much underneath." haels' High School. To earn the title, the champs 
Following Marc Kelly's driving defeated Sweet Sixteen foes "Big Or· lay-up to open the scoring for gan ...," last year's runner-ups "TPS "O'Rourke ...," Williamson and Again," and Final Four opponent Duerson forced several "Even Less Jacksonless Five," who "O'Rourke ..." turnovers as "Full fell hy only two points. ·House" scored the next six points. The wii1ners played without fof­
"We helped each other a lot on ward Bill Bonde in the semi-final defense," added Williamson. game due to a lacrosse game and in­"Schaefer was the key again." stead used Freshman Tom Murphy 
"O'Rourke ..."rallied to score six who played in his first Bookstore of the next seven baskets and knot game. Irish gridder Mark Brooks also the score at seven behind Tim contributed for the winners by Koegel's four points. Koegel, who playing in five of the eight victories. led his team in scoring along with For "Full House," defense was the Marc Kelly, finished with five buck­obvious key. Their Sweet Sixteen ets. opponents were held to just 64-of-
Jim Baron ignited a defensive 195 ( 32.8 per cent) and total op­surge while scoring a couple baskets ponents shot only 127-of-430 ( 29.5 over the next sequence as per cent). Meanwhile, "Full House" "O'Rourke ..." opened up a 16-14 made 169-of-422 shots for 40.0 per advantage,which would be their lar­cent. gest lead. 
But then Tony Hunter rose to the Williamson scored 50 points over 
occasion. 8 games ( 6. 3 average) to lead the 
Following a Duerson move that champions. Schaefer and Duerson cut the lead to one, Hunter scored scored 40 and 33 points respective­on a power move which tied it at 16. ly. Hunter tallied 15 baskets in just 3 "Full House" then capitalized on a games. 
pair of "O'Rourke ..." turnovers to 
open a 18-16lead. BOOKSTORE NOTES -Greg 
Hunter, who held Bell poured in nine-of-fifteen shots 
"O'Rourke's ..." leading scorer, to gain the Fritz Hoefer Most 
Buster Lopes, to a lone basket, Valuable Player Award in the All-Star 
scored on a follow-up and a spin Game. The South Quad All-Stars 
move in the lane to give the "Full blew a 17-11 lead, then scored the 
House" team an insurmountable 20-final four points to beat the North 
!6lead. Quad All-Stars 21-18 ... "Mr. 
Following a Kelly hoop from Bookstore" winner Tony Anderson 
outside, "Full House" worked the and "Red Rummers" center Don 
ball .to Schaefer for a jumper from Strummillo led the North with five 
the left baseline to seal the cham-points apiece ... One ofthe smallest 
pionship. players on the court, Bob Keenehan, 
"Full House" outrebounded their led all rebounders with ten ... Com­opponents 31-22 behind Hunter's missioner Dave Dziedzic, in his first thirteen boards and held year at the helm, was pleased with "O'Rourke" to 36 percent shooting the tournament. "Everything went 
from the field. offwithout a hitch," said Dziedzic. "I "Their size was the difference," can't thank the scorekeepers said Koegel. "Schaefer and Hunter enough for their help." 
=============================== 
USC, Pac-1 0 react to NCAA sanctions 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Reactions were varied Saturday as the severe sanctions announced by the Nation­al Collegiate Athletic Association regarding rules violations in the Uni­versity ofSouthern California's foot­ball program began to sink in. 
A headline in Saturday's editions of the Los Angeles Times read: "NCAA Wording Spells It All Out: USC A Cheater." In a commentary piece, sports editor Bill Dwyre said: "The NAA is simply calling USC one of the biggest cheaters to come down the pike in a while." 
"From my personal standpoint, it's hard to accept," the Los Angeles Herald Examiner quoted quarter­back Sean Salisbury, who will be a sophomore next yeir, as saying. "I expected we'd get some kind of probation, but I didn't think it would be that harsh." 
The Herald Examiner also quoted Washington State Coach Jim Walden as saying: "This is tragic. And anyone who thinks it's great is a little sick. This certainly isn't going to do the PAC-I 0 any good at all. I don't care to make a moral judgement on wh~t_ll55 did.. ~ut I know for a fact that other scHooLs are doing far greater things against NCAA rules than USC." 
The NCAA Infractions Committee 
announced Friday from Shawnee 
Mission, Kans., that the Southern Cal 
football program had been placed 
on probation for three years. 
1983-84 academic years and prohibited from television ap­pearances during 1983 and 1984 for violations that include a ticket­selling scheme to funnel cash to playersfrom 1971 through 1979. 
USC's game against Notre Dame, scheduled for November 27 in Los' Angeles, will not be affected. That game will be televised by CBS. 
"I wish they hadn't banned them from television," the Herald Ex­aminer quoted Walden as saying. "That penalizes everyone in the con­ference for something they had no­thing to do with." 
Southern Cal officials had gone before the Infractions Committee on Thursday to appeal the penalties, which the school had known about for several weks. The appeal was flat­lydenied. 
INSIDE: 
Dziedzic-p.10 Yankees -p.10 
Track-p.10 
'Twisters '-p.9 









