
NEWS ·. · 
TYLENOL UPDATE
I A WHO TRIBUTE 
~ see page one
INSIDE: :-see cente~spread :iii 



HE IRISH EXTR 
VOL. XVII. NO. 32 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1982 
tilt: indqwntknt ~tudcnt Ill'\\ -.pap<:r ~l·rving notrl' dam<.' am.! ~aint mary's 
Hurricane warnings (~ ~ 
Two top defensive teams square off, each with a score to settle 
By CHRIS NEEDLES 
Sports Editor 
For the third week in a row, Notre Dame will be facing a pass-oriented offense, as it squares off against 17th-ranked Miami of Florida at Notre Dame Stadium. 
There was a time when games against pas­
sing teams used to be X-rated material and 
bring screams ofhorror from Irish fans. But no 
more. 
The Hurricanes come into tomorrow's con­
test averaging nearly 200 yards a game 
through the air. But the combination ofa for­
midable pass rush and a vastly-improved 
secondary have made the Notre Dame pass 
defense air-tight. . . 
The secondary, which limited Michigan 
State to just 121 yards in the air last Saturday, 
should be tested again this week. Miami quar­
terback Mark Richt, who replaced the injured 
Jim Kelly three weeks ago, has filled in ad­
mirably. Richt has hit on 40-of-73 passes for 
395 yards in two-and-a-half games since taking 
over for Kelly. 
When Kelly separated his shoulder in the 
Hurricanes' 14-8 win at Virginia Tech on Sep­
tember 18, skeptics immediately wrote off 
Miami's chances for a national championship. 
Kelly, who was a prime candidate for the Heis­
man ':'rophy, had burned the Irish in their last 
two meetings. 
In Notre Dame's 32-14 home victory in 1980, Kelly passed for 220 yards and two fourth-quarter touchdowns in the losing ef­fort. And in last season's "game," if you want to call it that, the Pennsylvania native threw for 264 yards in the 3 7-15 blowout. 
So, you would think Irish Coach Gerry Faust is rejoicing over Kelly's absence. Not so. 
"Richt is doing an outstanding job," says Faust "Losing someone of)im Kelly's status had to be a tough blow emotionally as much as anything. I don't think there's any question he was the leader oftheir team. 
"But you have to be impressed with the success Richt has had the last couple of weeks. He's in a difficult position, but he's handled himselfwell. I'm not sure he's quite the deep threat Kelly was, but that's not always essential because of the way Miami utilizes its running backs in the passing game." 
The way Notre Dame's rushing defense has been going lately, pass receiving may be the only thing Miami's running backs will be able to do tomorrow. The Irish front four of Bob Clasby, Jon Autry, Mike Gann and Kevin Grif­fith, which has now been coined "The Gold Rush," has held opponents to a mere 71 total yards rushing in the first three games. The 
23.7 yard per-game average is tops in the na­tion, and translates into a meager 0.8 yards per rushing attempt. 
Miami will try to counter with what has 
/

been a sub-par rushing attack led by junior halfback Keith Griftin (62 carries for 22 I yards) and junior fullback Speedy Neal ( 42 for 142 yards). 
OUTLOOK, page 3A 
{i 

~ · ' 
! 
\ 
\ 

I .r 
J 
/ 
. ~· ~-····· 

MikeGann 



~A game on the line Both teams must control the offensive line to move the ball 
It is a time-worn cliche, uttered ad nauseam by television an­
nouncers resplendent in polyester sport coats. 
"Football," they say, "is a game won and lost in the trenches." 
This one will be no exception. 

"1/otre Dame's aptly -if not uniquely -named "Gold Rush" derensive line, and Miami's own talented front line will dictate the outcome of the game. The Irish are No. I against the run, and the third-ranked defense overalL The Hurricanes are not far behind them in the latest NCAA statistical release. 
So, the real job will be for the offensive linemen, the anonymous men who work the hardest for the least amount ofglory. Notre Dame linemen will be contending with All-America can­didate Tony Chickillo. 
''Defensively, we're not as strong as we were a year ago," says Chickillo ofthe defensive unit that held Notre Dame's offense score­less last year. "But we are a lot quicker, and more explosive. We're a big play defense. We cause a lot ofbig plays." 
There have been changes in the offensive line this week. An injury to center Mark Fischer, though not as severe as once believed, will necessitate some position-shuffling. 
Tom Thayer will move over to the center spot, leaving his own guard position to Neil Maune. Mike Shiner, who returned from pre­season arthroscopic surgery to his knee last week, will also be forced into duty. 
"Thayer played there during the spring," said Coach Gerry Faust 
this week in explaining the move, "so he knows how to play the 
position. Tom Doerger (listed second on the depth charts) played 
well last week, but he's only a freshman. 
"Thayer's a three-year starter, and at this point of the season we want experienced players in our lineup." 
And Chickillo is not the only man with which the Irish linemen must contend. 
"I've got a couple of young guys playing next to me," the 6-3, 250-pound Chickillo says. "But I have a great deal ofconfidence in what Tony Fitzpatrick and Fred Robinson can do. They've been waiting in the wings a long time. Now their opportunity is here, and they are going to make the most ofit" 
These two men will be a real challenge for the Irish offensive line. Fitzpatrick is small at 6-0, 240, but he has great quickness. He and Robinson combined for a game-saving tack.le­fumble recovery combination against Michi­gan State two weeks ago. 
Last week, Robinson had what many observers considered the best game of his career. He harassed Louisville Quarterback Dean May to the point offorcing five intercep­tions. He also had three sacks. 
The Irish line must buy time for Blair Kiel if he is to be effective. They must also provide a hole through which Phil Carter can run. The game against Michigan State was an example ofan occasion where Carter, who's strength is his ability to get through the hole and into the fiats, simply had no place to run. 
LINES, page 2A

Tony Chickillo 

2 6 The Irish Extra -Miami Friday, October 8, 1982 -page 2A 


Griffith for the defense A knee iniury taught the Irish lineman what football I and life I is all about 

By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 
He's an end. 
He's6-3. 
He's a senior. 
He's from Kettering, Ohio... 
Sounds familiar. Anyone, ofcourse who has been to a Notre Dame 
home basketball game in the last year knows that the last three lines 
will be the dramatic introduction f(>r John Paxson this season. 
But what's with the "!It-'s an end" busin<:ss' 
If you don't know. then meet Kettering·~ "other" connection in 
athletic prowess for Notre Dame --deknsive end. scholar-athlete 
and perhaps as good an embodiment ol the N.otre Dame spirit as vou 
will ever find, Kevm Griffith. 
Paxson -who attended the sam<: high school as Griffith in Ketter­
ing-will probably still he the most-talked-about athlete on campus 
by the end ofthe year, hut for now quite a hit of talking is being dune 
about Gritl1th. 
Forget that he has made only 1 l tackles (tying him for tenth on the 
squad) in three games. Gritllth ha~ become perhaps the major stal­
wart for the much-improved Notre Dame "Gold Rush." Already in .the .young season, opposmg offensive units have been dropped 18 times behind the line of scrimmage for a total of 87 yards in losses. Griffith himself has accounted for six of those losses for 'l9 yards. 
"Those 11 tackles don't tell the story about what Kevin has done 
for us this year," says his defensive line coach, Greg Blache. "He is 
very valuable for us with his experience and strength alone. He is so 
physically awesome for us at times that it has enabled him to m~ke 
the gigantic plays when we needed them." 
Such was the case last Saturday when Michigan State had a first down on its own 29 yard line in the first quarter. Two Griffith sacks later, the hall was on the State 10 yard line. Then Griffith helped out linemates Mike Gann and Jon Autry with yet another sack in the Spartan end zone (thus beating out his Kettering colleague in scoring the first "rwo points" ofthe season). 
The floodgates opened after that, as the Irish defensive unit 
recorded seven more tackles for losses on the afternoon. 
"He set the tempo for us right there," says Blache, "and he got the 
others fired up. 
"Kevin and Bob Clasby arc two seniors that have really earned the 

Kevin Griffith 
• • • Lines 
continuedfrom page /A 
Miami's front line must contend with Kevin Griffith, Jon Autry, Mike Gann, and Bob Clasby. But they have done so before, and well. 
Mark Cooper was a part-time starter at tight end for two years, then_ was relegated to a third-string role behind Andy Baratta and Glenn Dennison. But all that changed just before the end of the season last year..Starting tackle Bill Welch went down at a Tuesday practice with a knee injury. With two days to go before the Notre Dame game, Coach Howard Schnellenberger turned to Cooper to fill the slot. It was a chance out of a Horatio Alger dime novel, and Cooper made the most ofit. By the end ofthe Hurricane win Cooper put on a performance that earned him Offensive Player ofthe Game honors from the Miami coaching staff 
He has been a starter ever since. 
Don Bailey ha.~ been around much longer. The 6-4, 250-pound senior has started at center for the 'Canes for three seasons, and has proven himself against some of the best nose guards in college foot­ball. The Miami press releases incline only slightly to euphemism when they call him "the spiritual leader for the Hurricanes' offensive heart." 
The Hurricanes must buy time for Mark Richt, just as the Irish must do for Kiel. Ifanything, however, it is more vital for the 'Canes to do so. A mediocre running attack requires that Richt pass -a lot. And if Grifith, et at., put the same amount of pressure on him that they did on Leister, they will, more than likely, won the battle. 
And the game. 
respect of our younger members in the line. They look to them for their poise and maturity and that's exactly what they have been providing. It's just like having another pair ofcoaches on the field." 
Griffith's play and leadership have been all the more pleasant since he was suspect in the beginning as a starter after having sat out all of spring drills .this year in order to nurse an old knee injury. In addi­tion, he was moved from his old contain tackle position to the end spot this season. 
His shift, however, is one of the reasons why he feels that the defensive front has made such great strides this season. 
"We have people in the positions this year where they are best suited," explains Griffith. "We are also a lot physically stronger and established this year. The system last year where players on the defensive line were rotated in and out was good in the sense that it would give a player a rest, but it was also bad in that when a guy finally figured out the opposing players style or tendencies, he would lose his continuity hy having to sit back down on the bench. 
"As for myself, I've ju~t been fortunate on the sacks this year through hard work. I'm still kind oflearning the new position and I still have some improving ahead of me." 
Learning and improving, though, are Griffith's true talents in life. 
I 
~ 
i 
l 
One of the philosophies that has made Grif­fith the person he is today is the axiom that when · life hands you a lemon -make lemonade. Two years ago when he was racked up for .the year at the beginning of the season with a major knee injury, moaning about the unfairness that life brings wasn't his style. 
"It was nothing more than a case of my becoming a ~tudent first. and an athlete second,'' he recalls. "I was able to work that year at a juvenile center in Michigan -which was just a trCm(·mlous cxperit:nce in itself. l was Jlso able then to anend seminars and lectures out~ide of class that I wouldn't have been able to attend ifl had been playing foot­hall. 
"I love the game, hut there arc so many other things to do in life. The injury just opened up new opportunitie~ for me." 
The new opportunities paid their dividends at season·~ end last year. Besides attaining second-team Academic All-America honors for hb :).:\grade point average in government, Griffith was awarded the coveted John W. McMullan award from Notre Dame. which is giv<:n to the Irish gridder who best ex­emplifies spirit of the student-athlete while contributing his skill and ability in the class­room and on the tleld. 
Finally, his greatest opportunity arrived this summer when he assisted in the office work of Ohio Congressman Clarence Brown in Wash­ington, D.C. 
All ofwhich gives Griffith an inevitable "All­American Boy" tag -a label which he embarrassingly laughs off. 
"I've had my nights at the C-Ciub (Corby's)," he explains. 
"There's a lime for work and a time for play though," he continues more seriously, "and when it's time to work I'll do everything I can to give my best effort. The one thing that Notre Dame really teaches you is your faults. When I first came here I immediately realized that I would have to become stronger, faster and smarter on the field. I've worked hard for those goals and developed myself as a person along the way both mentally and physically. 
"There is so much here. All the people ­not just athletes -are talented in their own ways. Having had the opportunity to meet the different people here is something that will always stay with me." 
In an era where many athletes arc used by the scholarships that universities give them, Griffith ha.~ used Notre Dame in a positive manner through his own scholarship. 
"I think every father dreams ofhis own sons growing up to be like Kevin," says Blache. "He's just a phenomenal kid to be associated with." 

Chalk up another plus for Archbishop Alter High School in Kettering, Ohio. 
I 


IRISH EXTRA 
BY 

Skip Desjardin 
Phi/Carter 

, , , Cardinals -page 20 

VOL XVII, NO. 32 thc imkpcmknt ~tudcnt nnv~papcr scrYing notrc Jamc and saint mary's FRIDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1982 

(AP)-Top authorities in Illinois said yesterday there is no apparent connection between the April cyanide death of a Philadelphia man and seven deaths from cyanide­contaminated Tylenol in the Chicago area. 
"We have no reason to suspect 
... that there is any connection," said Illinois Attorney General Tyrone Fahner, who heads a task force investigation into the Chicago­area deaths. 
At an afternoon news briefing he said he could not disclose "other ob­jective facts" that led officials to con­clude there was no relation between the two incidents. 
Meanwhile, in Oroville, Calif., detectives investigating the dis­covery of Tylenol laced with strychnine said they believe "the crime probably is local," and a new lead had turned up. Authorities there had speculated that the poisoning was done by a "copycat" who heard of the Chicago cases. 
Chicago's top police official had discounted a link between the Chicago and Philadelphia cases ear­lier yesterday after being briefed by Philadelphia police about the inves­tigation into the April 3 death of a graduate student at the University of Pennsylvania. 
"Based on the preliminary report (from Philadelphia police), with the facts we know now, the cases are not 
Neardouble digits 


More Americans unemployed 
Chicago-Philadelphia 

No link found in poisonings 
Tunnels found under West Beirut 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Nearly 700,000 more Americans sought jobless benefits late last month, the government said yesterday. This came on the eve of the expected release of figures showing the hig­hest unemployment level since the waning days of the Great Depres­sion. 
For the seventh consecutive week, first-time claims for un­employment checks surpassed the 600,000-level .:•msidered by economists as a cle~1 signal ofa pen­ding rise in the overall jobless rate. 
That rate wa~ 9.8 percent of the work force in August, so a fractional 
0.2 percent rise would produce double-digit unemployment. 
The latest claims figures, reported by the Labor Department, revealed that 697,000 people completed forms at local employment offices to test their eligibility for 26 weeks of government checks. 
The claims filings for the week en­ding Sept. 25 fell 6,000 short of the record-setting 703,000 first-time claims placed the previous week, according to the Employment and Training Administration. 
But the filing binge, nonetheless, was the second highest registered since the government began compil­ing such figures in 1974. 
The report came as critics of President Reagan's economic policies girded for today's release of figures likely to show the nation surpassing 10 percent joblessness in September. That would be the worst mark since 1940, when America was emerging from the Depression. 
The jobless rate· in August was 9.8 

percent,  matching  a  post-World  
World  II  record  set  the  month  
before,  with  nearly  11  million  

people out of work. The previous recorded in 1940. The highest rate post-war high of 9.0 percent, regis­ever registered was a 24.9 percent tered in May 1975, was matched in annual average joblessness regis­March. 
tered during the depths of the Before this year, the highest figure 
Depression in 1933. short of double-digits was the year's 
Reagan was on the campaign average of 9.9 percent in 1941, 
stump yesterday, hammering away before the government began 
at his assertion that the Democratic keeping jobless statistics on a 
Party is reponsible for high un­month-to-month basis. 
employment. In a visit to Reno, Nev., An overall rate of 10 percent or 
Reagan said Democrats are the "last more would be the highest since an 
annual average 14.9 percent was See CHECKS, page 5 connected," said Police Superinten­dent Richard Brzeczek. 

"But we will be getting the evidence gathered in their investiga­tion and a full report," he said, "and we'll look them over to see ifthere is anything that will be ofuse to us. 
"Right now," he added, "we are no closer to solving this as a result of what was learned there." 
Brzeczek said Philadelphia police told him "there was no tie" to the Chicago cases after they conducted a second interview with an associate of William Pascual, 26, a graduate student whose death had been ruled a suicide. The probe of Pascual's death was reopened when seven people died in the Chicago area last week after taking capsules of Extra­Strength Tylenol that had been con­taminated with cyanide. 

Investigators discovered that a bottle of Extra-Strength Tylenol capsules found in Pascual's apart­ment contained cyanide, a piece of 
evidence that was not detected in the initial investigation. 
But, said Brzeczek, "The cyanide they found there was not in capsules as we found them here." And, he said, authorities were attempting to learn whether Pascual put the cyanide there himself. 
Tylenol capsules have been withdrawn from the market nationwide. 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -An elaborate tunnel network under west Beirut served as a "city within a city" for Palestinian guerrillas, com­plete with an amusement center and torture chamber, security sources said yesterday. 
They also said that the interna­tional terrorist Carlos used the tun­nels to meet with Palestine Liberation Organization guerrillas. 
The sources said the four-mile network ran from the Sabra and Chatilla refugee camps to Bourj ei­Barajneh next to the airport, and was· packed with arms, forged passports and stolen cars. Other sources said helicopters and small submarines were hauled from the tunnels, but that was not confirmed. 
The tunnels were discovered late last month, the sources said. 
In other Lebanese developments, 

U.S. envoy Philip C. Habib met in Washington with top Reagan ad­ministration officials to refine a plan for the phased withdrawal of Israeli, Syrian and Palestinian forces from Lebanon, followed by the recall of the 1,200 U.S. Marines in the peacekeeping force; Israeli officials in Jerusalem, in an apparent soften­ing of earlier positions, said the Palestine Liberation Organization could pull out in stages with the Syrian army, but that all PLO fighters 
must be out before the last phase of the Syrian and Israeli pullout; and Lebanese army troops arrested 175 more people in west Beirut, bring­ing to more than 1,000 the number seized since last week in what the 
See BEIRUT, page 6 

Economy hampers Republicanchances 
RENO, Nev. (AP) -The specter of a pre-election jump in un­employment shadowed President Reagan's efforts yesterday to en­hance the prospects of Republican candidates in states where his personal popularity remains high. 
Hammering away at his campaign theme oftrying to lay the blame for high unemployment on Democrats, the president said they are the "last ones who should be delivering sermonettes" on the problem. 
Addressing a Republican rally at the University of Nevada-Reno, the president left no doubt he anticipates bad political news when the Labor Department issues its latest unemployment figures today, the last report before the Nov. 2 elections. 
The jobless rate, which was 9.8 percent the last two months, is widely expected to reach 10 percent or higher in the new report. 
"Tomorrow the new unemployment rate comes out," Reagan told a partisan rally. "I have some questions for those who will be all over our (television) screens tomorrow. Where were they when the economy first started going haywire? What are they offering except the same failed policies they pushed in the past?" 
The president flew to Nevada to generate enthusiasm and money for Republican candidates, particularly Gov. Robert List, who is trail­ing his Democratic challenger, and Chic Hecht, a businessman who is given a chance of upsetting four-term Democratic Sen. Howard Cannon. 
Also on the president's schedule were fund-raising receptions in Reno and Las Vegas that the party hoped would bring in S150,000 for GOP candidates. 
The president was heading for Los Angeles after the Las Vegas fund raiser at entertainer Wayne Newton's ranch. 
He had a meeting scheduled with President-elect Miguel de Ia Madrid of Mexico in San Diego today, but had no campaign stops planned during a three-day California stay. 
He resumes the campaign Monday with a stop in Dallas, Texas, on behalfof Republican Senate candidateJim Collins. 

News Brie/§ 
Hy The Obsen,er and The Associated Press 
A 13-year-old boypunched and threatened to kill his principal after being expelled from school for throwing books on the floor and kicking them, officials in Lydonville, Vt. said. The boy, who was not identified because of his age, was taken into custody at the Lyndonville Grade School after he hit Principal Carl Anderson, police said. Village Police Chief Leo Desjardins said the youth had been expelled earlier in the day because he threw books on a class­room floor and kicked them. Anderson took the boy home, but the youth returned later, officials said. He then left a second time, return­ing to threaten Anderson. -AP 
A bus carrying workers to Newport News Shipbuilding & Dry Dock Co. crashed off U.S. I7 in Tabb, VA early yesterday, injuring all but two of the 39 people aboard, state police said. Three people were hospitalized, but most of the injured suf­fered only cuts and bruises in the 5:46a.m. crash at the intersection ofU.S. I7 and Virginia I34. "Everything indicates that the steering of the bus failed and the driver lost control and went offthe right side of the road, striking several large trees," said Trooper P.K. Hargis. -AP 
Bethel police officers were not to btame ror the deaths offour teenagers during a high-speed chase, Newtown, Conn. police have concluded. The results ofthe inquiry, made public Wed­nesday, also said the teenagers were not to blame for the crash, al­though investigators said they were traveling too fast to make a turn. Two teenagers also were injured in the Sept. I 0 crash, which oc­curred after two Bethel officers pursued the teenagers' vehicle from a Bethel parking lot into Newtown. Bethel police said they tried to stop the vehicle because there were passengers in the open back of the ranch-style car and because it was operating erratically. -AP 
About 400 aborigines and supporters marched and chanted slogans yesterday in Brisbane, Australiia, in another protest to draw attention to native landclaims. About 200 people were ar­rested, charged with violating a special law prohibiting protests during the Commonwealth Games. Queen Elizabeth II is in Brisbane for the sports event, which ends tomorrow. Ann Stephen, daughter of Australia's governor-general, was arrested for the second time. More than 350 people have been arrested in the past week for staging illegal marches in support of aboriginal land rights. Aboriginal activist Gary Foley, who addressed the marchers before they moved into the streets, said the protests have attracted worldwide attention to the "oppression" of aborigines in Queensland, Australia's most politically conservative state. -AP 
Parole was deniedyesterday to 34 mercenaries con­victed of commandeering an Air India jetliner last November to escape the botched coup attempt in the Seychelles, according to the South African Press Association. The men are commandos who received the minimum prison sentences offive years, with four and a half years suspended. They were sentenced in July and will have served the required terms byJanuary. CoL "Mad Mike" Hoare, famed for his mercenary exploits in the Congo in the I960s, was the alleged coup leader and was sentenced to 20 years, with I 0 years suspended. -AP 
The proposed deploymentofF-I6 squa~rons in northern Japan is intended to cope with the Soviet military buil­dup in the Far East, a Japanese Defense Agency official said yesterday. Haruo Natsume, head of the agency's Defense Bureau, told a Parlia­ment committee that the deployment will help strengthen the U.S. deterrent and thus strengthen Japan's security. The U.S. Air Force said the plan calls for a wig ofF-I6 fighters to be stationed at Misawa, 350 mies northeast of Tokyo, starting in I985. Twenty-four would be initially deployed. -AP 
Jihan Sadat leaves Egypt today for a three-country tour, her first since the assassination of her husband, President Anwar Sadat, one year ago. Mrs. Sadat has been in mourning since her hus­band was killed by self-proclaimed Moslem extremists while review­ing a military parade Oct. 6, I98I. A close friend of the family, who asked not to be identified, told The Associated Press Mrs. Sadat will visit West Germany for two days on her way to the United States, where she will spend a week. She then will visit London. In the United States, Mrs. Sadat will accept two awards for her husband and be welcomed by Egypt's ambassador, Ashraf Ghorbal. During her two-day stay in London, Mrs. Sadat will meet with Queen Elizabeth II and Princess Diana -AP 
International Harvester Co. concedes that despite all its efforts to stay afloat, including its pullout from the IH heavy-duty truck plant at Fort Wayne, it could sink into bankruptcy court. In a statement mailed to stockholders this week, the truck and farm-equipment manufacturer said that even if its current financial restructuring efforts go through, the company's future is far from secure. "The language is very grim," said spokeswoman Annette De Lorenzo, "but we have a very difficult story here." Harvester is staggering under an immense debt load of 54.2 billion and expects its 1982 fiscal losses to total Sl.5 billion to S 1.6 billion. -AP 
Sunny and mild today with a high in the tow to mid 70s. Increasing clouds tonight with a 30 percent chance of showers late. Lows tonight in the upper 50s. Occasional thunder­showers tomorrow, high in the mid 70s. -AP 
Friday, October 8, 1982 -page 2 
A need for the Beatles 
The four young men scuffled into the recording studio, their vested suits seemingly out ofstep with their long, tousled hair. The studio director showed them to their places before the microphones and pleasantly asked if there was an J·lhing they didn't like. "For a start," replied the youngest, "I don't like your tie." 
Tuesday was the 20th anniversary of the release of the first Beatie record, "Love Me Do." The simple lyrics and unassuming melody of the John Lennon-Paul McCartney composition helped build the foundation 
for the musical and cultural revolution the Beatles would spearhead for the next eight years, and in es­sence, have spearheaded ever since. 
What about the supergroup AC-DC? you scoff. Don't current popular artists have any musical or cultural in­fluence? 
In a way, AC-DC -the Bandits of Banality -and scores of other groups who idolize this high-intensity rock sound have led a counter-revolution against every­thing the Beatles stood for. The pounding distortion of their merciless heavy-metal and barbarian, make-them­up-as-we-go-along lyrics have chipped away at the towers ofthought and elegance that the Beatles worked so hard to construct. 
Perhaps more disturbing 

Soul, Revolver, and Sgt Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band albums included such innovations as Indian sitars, 
hypnotic cellos, and backward tapes. 
Young people accepted and applauded these musical innovations, looking upon the freedom expressed by the Beatles with earnest. They, too, sought to explore their own values. They, too, sought the freedom to express these values. 
Marches on college campuses and anti-war riots became almost commonplace in the late sixties. These were among the "revolutions" the Beatles were describing when they sang, "You say you want a revolu­tion/ Well you know/ We all want to change the world." 
Young people today seem to lack this interest in free 
thought and experimenta­
tion that was so important to 

is the growth in popularity of the commercially­successful "wimp" groups of the late seventies, the REOs, the Foreigners. These are bands too scared to tread far on the limb ofcreativity, but instead wait to hear what their bosses on Madison Avenue have to say. Their songs speak not for them but for their wallets. 
What might be most disturbing, however, is that the ideals -or lack thereof -these plastic groups par­lay on vinyl often reflect the 
ideals held by the record­buying public. Has the free­thinking spiritedness and readiness to voice opinions that accompanied -and was encouraged by -the Beatles in the late sixties evaporated? 
I think it has. 
Throughout its history, the British group rejected societal norms that had rarely been questioned previously. Often the charisma with which it ridiculed society only enhanced the group's appeal to those it had criticized. When the Beatles played before Queen Elizabeth at the Royal Command Performance in 1963, John Lennon told the exclusive audience, "On the next number, would those in the cheap seats clap their hands? The rest of you rattle your jewellery." When asked if he was embarrassed by the Beatlemania and "near-lunacy" the Beatles had created, Lennon replied,"No, it's great, we like lunatics, it's healthy." 
Artistically, they were always ready to experiment with new ideas. Their first film, A Hard Day's Night, saw them frollicking in a park with a freshness and ex­uberance that was never found in an Elvis Presley movie. Their musical maturation through the Rubber 
The Observer 
1'\HI" "\\II h.l 'll 
• ll"tTit·r rno•r•l .!H p.t~t·' & Ill' ,,,.n tlhrt 
''''''1.!" l.t/11111 lhnnwr \lnm & ll.t,f­
''HrtfWI111,1p111 
,,,.,1.1.!11 t"hlt/111• (,,., .t ~np ( ,,,,m,tLJ~h 111 Pt•p-lllm tlnl.1 t•• lll•lh & llw "' r.1pper-l't·ll ''''"ul\ltlff t-,.,,,h 
''''''"'"''" llruu· Ill·' "u~o:arplum' 
\t•u,lfllfm· il1 \lonl IJ.ul.,hm lk1 lot· 
I!.LHI,I-\lil.t• 
\JJIJotll.tlllrll I IIHII ( ohhmn 
\I/( lhtll:r/llm l,rq.:'"ll'rlt ll!fti/11/lllr lit \lnm,tmllladrrum lrm /o•<lllllf''''ll"UIIIt \l11m..l:mm· ltnH·Inr ,o(,l 
llt>\1 'Pm·rc•t Hi~''· \l,tllrt" l':tlln·•-1.tf! l<lllm'lllf.,JIIIttlll t..t••tfl.l',tUI \ftttl"/\tuf•tl:tfl/tu llr\lum~ U;tll'\\h.u hro~r d<l\\ 1\ 1\U\\ •-Htl h 
\loont-\IWt'd"•llltl" I\( -Ilia\(' ltjll.•l l:ttm•l>qtn.m ltiiJI'.I/.1:11 \lnh l'llulugrrtftltc•l lt·d t •m•,f ljlfll.'tll"lllln•.• I dt·phnnl· I urllt· 'l·~\lnm,'!,ll.t\1 lm ..ull;thu· -(.hrt' .rn..h 1111h nn rd.lltH'"· .• d""a\1\"MnnlmJ.: lull\ H.ttlll'lrutlu·rt-..1."\n' 
\mllwn·,lttl•tu \lr' Hnhtn-.tlll !•ttl 11 •n lhl· p.uun \\tlh ttmr tupc..·.tl.l'' 

The Observer 1USPS 598 9201 " published Monday lhrough Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam a~d vaca110n per~ods The Observer IS publiShed by the sludenls of Notre Da,ne and Sa1nt Marys Col· lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year iS15 per se'T1e5ten by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame Indiana 46556 
The Observer IS a ·ne,nber of The Associated Press All repruductHJn nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 

the Beatles and their fans. Rather than questioning the opinions and values of parents, teachers, and ad­ministrators, many are con­tent to accept these as the gospel truth. Rather than marching on campuses to protest inadequate leader­ship or policies, students are content to hide under the umbrella of their pre­programmed daily routines. 
Part of the blame for this change in the outlook of the young must be attributed to the decay in music industry values. Money is now 

stressed more than art and innovation. Artists are too scared to take chances be­cause their money-hungry bosses are too scared to take chances. 
And so, while current artists sing about "jukebox heroes" who "take it on the run" on the "highway to hell," music fans who desire more from their music must look nostalgically backward and hopefully for­ward. Young people must hope future changes will in­ject the spirit and thoughtfulness that was so important to the Beatles. 
Let it be. 

The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not necessarily represent the views of The ·Observer or its editorial board. 

You won't have totake up acollection to afford our lavish Su~J~~ly Buffet. 
All you r. ~-<'JI~ l ~ '<;;j(lb 
can eat. ·--.' \ ~/ 
11:00 a.m. ~·?;'>-\t \ }<~~·, 
to ,;~\;tjv· ...--.'1 '· 
,. ,

3:30 p.m. ' 
r---;-;, ' ' ~ v---,~ __,"' / . \_r, . J.f<l 
y / .~~ y'<
(~/~·~ \.. ;,'; 
~ 
Familv 
Buffet. 
$6.95 (Children
under 12 
S3 95\
-. ) 

Every week, we dish out the tastiest Sunday service in town. Roast Beef, Chicken a lc King, Lasagna & Fi~h. Mashed Potatoes, Dressing & Gravy. Salads & fl"'.tit. Plus a who!e·bufiet iu:; oi other family favorites. All for the heavenly low price of jus: $6.95. So come pass the plate with us next Sunday. You can take a!! you want. Without giving 'till it hurts. 

The Observer Friday, October 8, 1982-page 3 
Toreplace Smeal 

Five vie for NOWpresidency 
The main differences among the mltlate more, be on the offensive Firebrand SoniaJohnson and two of 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) 
major candidates seem to be matters more," she said in an interview. ficers of the National Organization 
of emphasis rather than policy. One Judy Goldsmith, a Wisconsin issue, for example, concerns how native who is NOW's vice president­
for Women are squaring offin ballot­ing to determine the next president 
much ofNOW's resources should be executive, is another leading can­devoted to electoral politics, a didate for the job. She served as chief
of NOW and, perhaps, the future of the women's movement. 
theme developed by Smeal since assistant to Smeal in the last 18 Essentially. the question is defeat of the ERA. Another question months of the ERA fight and is whether control of the 220,000­
is how each contender would deal reported to have Smeal's endorse­member group, America's principal 
with relations between national ment. feminist organization, will remain 
headquarters in Washington and At Smeal's urging, the NOW ex­with the established leadership or chapters around the country. ecutive board imposed a gag order shift to the more activist elements 
The contender best known on officers, forbidding them to dis­outside the organization is Johnson, cuss the election with news or­
represented byJohnson. who earned national prominence in ganizations before the convention.
The fight follows two portentous her fight with the Mormcn Church But sources familiar with the situa­
events this year for the movement: over her support for the ERA, a tion confirmed that Goldsmith has
defeat of the Equal Rights Amend­proposed constitutional prohibition Smeal's endorsement.
ment in state legislatures and victory against sexual discrimination. The The other major contender isJane
against anti-abortion legislation in church opposes such an amend­Wells-Schooley of Pennsylvania, the
the Senate. ment. vice president-action. Wells­
Hundreds of women from around 
Lebanese army soldiers blocking cars from entering the area
lJltimately, Johnson was expelled Schooley was largely responsible forthe country were gathering here for 
surrounding the Bourj El-Barajneh Palestinian refugee camp also
from the church, and the 40-year­NOW's non-ERA and non-politicaltoday's start of NOW's annual con­
stop a youth on a bicycle Wednesday in Beirut. The Lebanese army
old mother of four became a full­activities in recent years.
vention, three days of speeches, 
arrested dozens of Palestinians in a daum raid on the camp,
time activist. Her most recent Two other candidates are Mary M.
panel discussions and hearings on 
military sources reported. (AP Photo)
publicized activity was a 37-day fast McQuay, a NOW leader in Ok­women's issues. 
..........................•......,
with other women in an unsuccess­lahoma, and Anne L. Lang, who is
But the focus ofthe meeting is the ful attempt to persuade the Illinois active in the political action com­
election of a successor to retiring • d • Legislature to approve the ERA mittee.
NOW president Eleanor Smeal. : Aske J:0 ,. • There are five candidates for the before theJune 30 deadline. Smeal says she does not expect • 0.::> ~ • post, but three are regarded as front­"We need to be a lot more ag­major changes in the organization, 
runners. gressivt-in our efforts; we need to no matter who is elected. 




i ~flUA i 
Valerian Trifa : ~uth Dining Hall : 
Nazi sympathizermustleave U.S. : Oak Room Cafe ! 
DETROIT (AP) -Valerian Trifa, articles and made anti-Jewish ing anti-Semitic violence. But he the Romanian Orthodox archbishop speeches, said Allan A. Ryan Jr., acknowleged that when he entered accused of being a Nazi sympathizer director ofthe special investigations the United States he concealed his : Slice 1/2 Whole : 
who incited bloody riots during office. activities in the Iron Guard, a pre­World War II, will be deported, the U.S. officials said that a Jan. 20, World War II anti-Semitic group. : Cheese $.65 $2.55 $5.00 : Justice Department said yesterday. I94 I, speech by Trifa in Bucharest 
"This is the first time in 30 years a

Trifa, who hopes to find refuge in touched off four days of riots that !Sausage .80 3.10 6.00 : 
person has been ordered deported
Switzerland, will become the first killed 300 Christians andJews. 
for fascist activities ...and it won't : Pepperom .80 3.10 6.00 :person deported from the United The charge of inciting riots, and 
be the last," Ryan told a news con-
States for concealing war crimes others relating to alleged persecu­
: Mushroom .80 3.10 6.00 :
from immigration officials, said Neal tions of enemies of the Nazis, were ference. He said his office is probing Sher, deputy director ofthe Office of dropped under Trifa's agreement to 210 people who are known fascists : Onion and Peppers n/a n/a 6.00 : Special Investigations in the U.S. be deported. living in the United States. Twenty­Justice Department. Trifa repeatedly has denied incit-five ofthose cases are in the courts. : Double Cheese n/a n/a 1.00 : 
Under an agreement with the 
federal government, Trifa admitted :'• • • • a :J., • • • • • • • .... • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • :' 
iComb. Ingredients n/a n/a Add .90: 


lying to immigration authorities to cover up his fascist sympathies 
CogLmo ~g iliaitt C0egtg11
when he entered the United States 32 years ago. He agreed to leave the 18461 St Rd. 23 South Bend United States rather than continue 
callforappoin!lnent277-1875
the civil deportation proceeding. 
.'ihampoo, Conditiont?r, Cut Stvle
His trial had begun Monday before Immigration Judge Bellino 
NDSpecial
D'Ambrosio in Detroit. The government was prepared to Guys-$10.00(reg. 13.00) show that Trifa had been an ardent 
Girts-$15.00 (reg. 18.00)
Nazi supporter and member of a group called the Iron Guard and that From the designers at Cosimo 's 
he wrote inflammatory newspaper : .............................................................." ...... 

The Best in 
Aged Steaks 120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 255-7737 
Lunch 
11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. 
Dinner 5:00 P.M. 

Closed Sundays & Holidays 

'·····························································~·····~···· 
• 
Present this r

! , i
coupon t /il · I • t on : BRJn(j 1n this ab anb (j€t SOc oH any whol€ p1zza : 
arrival 

t qoob thRU Oct. 21, 1982_ + 

The Observer 
1, 7 30 workers affected 

Clark begins consolidation -. 
Minneapolis Star and TribuneEditor Charles Bailey reads a state-. ment to the newspaper's editors and reporters. He announced the company's decision to lay off 75 employees, including 30 jour­nalists. He said he opposed the decision and is leaving the newspaper because ofit. (AP Photo) 
BUCHANAN, ML (AP) -Clark Equipment Co. said Wednesday that production operations would be phased out at three Michigan plants and greatly reduced at a fourth during the next 15 months under a plant consolidation plan. 
The jobs of some 1,730 of the company's 4,200 Michigan workers would be affected, Clark said, which builds construction machinery, materials handling equipment and automotive parts. Many Indiana workers cross the state line near 
South Bend to work at the Buc­hanan, Mich., plant. 
"We deeply regret the effect this phaseout will have on Clark employees and these communities," McKernan, a Clark vice president. 
"We have too much manufactur­ing capacity and our manufacturing cost (in Michigan) are too high to be competitive in world markets. There also has been a sharp drop in demand for our products." 
McKernan said Clark manufactur­ing operations in Buchanan, Jackson and Benton Harbor would be phased out, while operations at the Springfield plant in suburban Battle Creek would be reduced to 40 per­



Old Fashioned Home Cooking At Its Best! 
•rf 
You Are Looking For Something Unique and Different 

•Homemade 
Pies, Breads, Salads, & Rolls 

•4Q__Foot 
Salad Bar 


•Nightly 
"All You Care To Eat Specials" Choose from Roa~r Beef, 


Turkey, Chicken, BBQ Ribs, Frog Legs & Lake Perch, Swiss Steak, "Open Menu Always Available Ham 
•Elegance, Good Prices -850 Seats ,:_ '=:r •souvenirs, Gifts & Homemade Goodies 
~~=·llE ~ f.--~~Sat. morning brunch-75 items under $5°0·8 am. 2 pm l<r.~-~..··We will accep~ your reservations to guarantee 
· t 
immediate seating 

Open Daily II A.M.-9 P.M. o Saturday 8 A.M.-9 P.M. Closed Sundays-Except Easter, Mother's Day & Father's Day 
E. Jefferson Blvd. o Mishawaka. Indiana 255-8040 
~u•~--~--" fro: .N:tre Dame soui.h on Bddy • S min. to Jefferson· east 10 min. 
cent capacity. 
Some 457 jobs would be lost at Buchanan, 603 at Jackson, 270 at Benton Harbor and 400 at Springfield, company spokeswoman Pat Whelan said. 
Some 1,300 production workers would remain at Springfield on completion ·of the plant consolida­tion program, she said. 
She added that production at the four plants has been at less than 50 percent capacity for several months due to poor economic conditions. 
Clark headquarters would remain in Buchanan. 
Beginning in about six months, Clark will transfer the production capability lost at the four Michigan plants to facilities in Georgetown, 
Ky.,"Stateville and Rockingham, N.C. 
and St. Thomas, Ontario. 
But Ms. Whelan said "I don't think 
we're projecting any job increases" 
at those Southern plants until 
economic conditions improve. 
"While labor costs certainly en­
tered into our decision, this was not 
the overriding factor, especially 
given the encouragement by 
salaried employees and union 
representatives in several plants that they would accept wage and benefit reductions," Clark Chairman James 
R. Rinehart said in a letter to employees. 
Since last spring, Clark has been studying operations at its II U.S. manufacturing facilities to determine where cuts could be made to reduce overall capacity. 
The Buchanan-based firm reported losses of 53.4 million for the first six months of I982. Its l98I profits were $29.9 million on sales of $1.36 billion-down from a year earlier when the company earned 
.j
$51.9 million from !!1.53 billion 
' 
insles. 
City and state officials had offered 
the company help in lowering its 
operating costs, which Clark es­
timated to be $10.77 per hour high­
er at the Buchanan plant than in two 
sister plants in North Carolina. 
United Auto Workers union Local 468, which represents workers at Buchanan, offered last month to ap­prove a 20 per cent pay cut and a three-year freeze on wage increases 
for its members if Clark would keep the facility open. "They never even responded," lo­cal president Phillip Freeze said. 
The Buchanan axle and transmis­sion plant has about 5SO workers, company officials have said. At Ben­ton Harbor, a construction mac­hinery facility, there are about 620 employees. The Springfield opera­tion, which builds lift trucks, has about 1,500 workers. About 7SO workers build axles and transmis­sions at the plant in jackson. 
$82million worth 
Government losing money 
WASHINGTON (AP) The government is holding $82 mil!ion in seized cars, trucks, boats and aircraft and is losing money because it can't dispose of the property quickly enough, the chairman of a 
House committee said Wednesday 
Rep. Jack Brooks, D-Texas, said 
the government has failed to remedy 
the problem despite a warning last 
February from the General Account­
ing Office of Congress and a Cus­toms Service report. 
"Although a previous GAO report 

and a Customs internal audit report 
had identified these problems, no­
thing has been done to alleviate 
them," said Brooks. 
The GAO said that because ofvan­dalism, theft, storage costs and depreciation, the government is losing money through its inability to sell off the property. 
The situation got so bad that for a time, in the middle of 198I, the Im­migration and Naturalization Service stopped making seizures al­together because it had no place to store the vehicles, the watchdog agency said. 
The GAO said the General 

Services Administration was unable 
to move quickly enough to make 
637 N. St. Louis St. 233-2464 
ROCCO'S ORIGINAL PIZZA 
Delicious Homemade: Sausage Sandwiches Foot-long Hoagies Tortollini 
Carry-Out 1 open 1ITues-Thurs 5pm-1aml
BEER& WINE 

I Fri & Sat 5pm-2am I 
SOUTH BEND'S FIRST PIZZA -SINCE 1951 
room in its overstocked storage areas. GSA blamed the problem on inadequate manpower to handle what was an unexpected increase in seizures. 
The Justice and Treasury Depart­ments had no immediate comment. 
The GSA said federal law enforce­ment agencies have seized 3,665 cars and trucks, 692 boats and 16I aircraft since being empowered to do so by a law which took effect in 
1979. 
Most of the property was seized 
by the U.S. Customs Service, the 
GAO said. But the Drug Enforce­
ment Agency and the Immigration 
and Naturalization Service also have 
stepped up seizures of property to 
control contraband shipments, the 
GAO said. 

The Observer Friday, October 8, 1982 -page 5 
Experimentalsuccess 
Arthritis drugbrings relief 
(AP) -The first trial of an ex­Hahnemann Medical College in All of the drugs have dangerous perimental drug treatment for Philadelphia writes, "No other cur­side effects, Carrera said. severe cases of rheumatoid arthritis rent treatment program can claim "This was used only in people has halted progress of the disease in such successes with this type of with advanced, unremitting five of 1 7 patients and sparked a star­patient, except as anecdotal reports rheumatoid arthritis,'' he said. "It tling regrowth of damaged bone, in isolated instances." was an effort to save theirlives." 
doctors say. Dr. Frederic McDuffie of the McCarty was out of the country "Some of the damage to the bone Arthritis Foundation in Atlanta said and could not be reached to com­that people thought would never go the study is moderately important, ment on his research. away seemed to get better:· Dr. but the treatment would be useful His idea, borrowed fom cancer 
Guillermo Carrera of The Medical onlv for a small, but important, frac­research, was that by using a com­College of Wisconsin in Milwaukee tio~ of the almost 7 million bination of the risky drugs it might said yesterday. "It startled us.'· Americans who have rheumatoid be possible to treat severe 
Carrera, a radiologist, helped arthritis. rheumatoid arthritis with lower assess the effectiveness of the new Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic doses, thereby reducing the side ef­treatment developed by Dr. Daniel disease characterized by inflamma­fects. McCarty. a rheumatologist at the tion, pain and swelling in the joints. 
Cancer researchers have found

college. It can lead to deformity ofthe joints. 
that combination~ of anti-cancer
Their report will be publbhed The treatment consisted ofa LOm­drugs can allow better treatment
today in the ]<Jumal of the bination of three drugs known to he 
with fewer side effects.
Americau.Hedicul Association. effective against rheumatoid 
Researchers <:autioned thatIn an accompanving editorial in arthritis -cyclophosphamide, azat­McCarty's study was only a prelimi­the journal. Dr. Ceorge Ehrlich ol hioprine and hydroxychloroquine. 
nary one, and that the effectiveness of the drug treatment would not be established until larger, carefully controlled studies are done.



Freeze campaign 
Dr. Lawrence Ryan, a rheumatologist and a colleague of :\lcC.arty's at The Medical College of Wisconsin. said that the regrowth of
announces leader 
damaged bone observed by McCarty
1:\0IA~APOI l~ )AP) -Tht> In­
Social Justice Commission at the and Carrera is unique but does not diana Nuclear W'e:1pon~ Freeze Cam­
l'niversity of Notre Dame. represent a reversal of rheumatoid 
paign on Thur~da,· announced it will 
Of the 2..,6 city councils in the na­arthritis. set up state he:tdquarters in . In­
tion which have endorsed the Of the 1-patients who received dianapolis and Brother William 
freeze, the councils of Bloomington, McCarty's treatment, five had com­.\1ewes of the Congrcgation of Holy 
Elkhart. Fort Wayne. South Bend, plete remission, two had near remis­Cro~ from Notre Dame, is the coor­
Terre Haute and West Lafayette have sion, seven showed partial remission dinator. 
passed resolutions in support, and three had no response, accord­"In most analyses of the coming 
according to the campaign. ing to his report. national election~. the economy is 
listed as the No. I issue, hut we 
f';:;M(,~r;o~,..~;-~~ 
believe that the nuclear weapons arms race is the :"<o. 1 issue," Brother ,\1ewes said Thursday. Q 
EARN EXTRA $$$
"If this wild, insane arm~ race is 
I 
not brought under control and ' 
brought under control soon, then we 'von't have an economic problem or even an economy,' he added. 
One ofthe first public functions of Brother Mewes is to make an ap­pearance at a peace procession Oct. 17 in Bloomington The procession, which the state freeze campaign supports, is to be a "symbolic ex­pression of the need for nuclear dis­armament," according to a statement from the campaign. 
The state campaign is gathering signatures on petitions being circ­ulated statewide which call for arms reductions by the Soviet llnion and l'nited States. 
The:: petitions are to be presented to Sen. Richard G. Lugar R-Ind., and Rep. Floyd Fithian, D-lnd. 
For the last four years, Brother :\lewes has be .en the executive 

secretary of his order's .\tidwestern 
... Checks 
continuedfrom page 1 
ones who should be delivering ser­
monettes" on the problem. 
In Washington, his critics put the final touches on plans for elaborate speech-making and a protest rally timed to coincide with release ofthe unemployment report. AFL-CIO president Lane Kirkland, who has called unemployment "a national scandal," was scheduled as the:: leadoff speaker at a rally planned hy the Full employment Action Coun­cil for Lafayette Park, across from the White House. 
Several private economists said in telephone interviews thev saw no way the unemployment r~te would be below I 0 percent based on the large numbers of claims for jobless benefits. 
"It's clear that the unemployment rate is going to go above 10," said Thomas D. Thomson ofCrocker Na­tional Bank in San Francisco. 
"But I doubt very much that it will be the last increase we see," he added. 
Special Thanks 
from thv 
".D. U"ITED WAY STUDEHT DRIVE 
to: 
Morice Jeffers &Personnel Dept. 
James McDonell  
Fr. Hesburgh Ryan ver Berkmoes  Dan McQillan Ken Stefanek  
Margaret Fosmoe  Mike Browne  
Kathleen Doyle  
All those who helped out  

at The Observer. Brian Crouth All the hall representatives Billy Kramer & section leaders Pete Jeffery And all those who gave 
See you again nextyear 


Film, color slides, color prints or instant color prints. All sizes, up to 16" x'24". Hurry, offer ends October 27, 1982. Stop in today! 
COLOR 
PROCESSING 
•. Kodak 


NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
-----------· -----~
-~­

The Observer 
Friday, October 8, 1982 -page 6 

Alaska gives support 


Libertarian Party finds home 
Richard

'!o~~lly 
"YES, GIORGIO"
Pryor
awesome.' Live on the 




~~;:otti I
AST!IMES 

Sunset Strip AT lliDGEMORT 
Shows HIGH" 1:48-3:30· Shows 1:30-3:30-8:15-7:18­
2:00­8:30-7:30-9:30 9:18 
4:30-7:00-9:30 

. •, .· .; ;: ::. :, :: ::' •' . •, ·.· ... ·. -: .;. :; :: ·:: ::::: ·: :: ;.; ;:; :;. ;: . 
ing Irish midnight special 2 for 1 "llOCKY HORROll" "TOMMY" with this GUel''';,::u 
FAIRBANKS, Alaska (AP) "Alaska: Land of the Individual and Other Endangered Species," proclaims a popular T-shirt. 
The message goes a long way toward explaining why the Liber­tarian Party has found a home in Alaska, where it enjoys much more political power than anywhere else in the country. 
Dick Randolph of Fairbanks, who preaches unfettered individual rights and freedom from govern­ment interference, was the first Libertarian everelected to office in a state when he won a seat in the Alaska 'House of Representatives in 1978. 
The number of Libertarian state doubled in 1980 when Alaska voters re-elected Randolph and sent Ken Fanning, also of Fairbanks, to join him in the 40-member house. 
This year, with 15 candidates, Libertarian Party officials say they expect to pick up three or four addi· tiona! seats in the Legislature. Ran­dolph, 46, wants to succeed retiring Republican Gov. Jay Hammond. 
The Libertarian Party, which con­siders itself the country's third lar­gest political party, says it will make its views heard in 1982 as never before, even if it fails to score many electoral victories. 
It says it will have at least 11 

gubernatorial candidates this year, 
and will have candidates running for 
.· 


the voters a chance to vote for at least one Libertarian. 
All told, the party says, 900 to 1,000 advocates of the Libertarian philosophy will be on American bal­lots in 46 states. 
That philosophy advocates near absolute laissez faire: a free market economy and no government restrictions on personal behavior which does not infringe on other peoples' rights. Libertarians would limit government to the single task of protection, protecting the untry from foreign attack and protecting people from crime. 
The party's first presidential can­didate,John Hospers, ran in 1972 on the ballots of two states and won 5,000 votes. 
In 1980, Libertarian presidential candidate Ed Clark, an antitrust lawyer with Atlantic Richfield in California, became the first third­party candidate in history to get on the ballot ofevery state. 
In what was a five-man race, he won 882,000 votes, and finished fourth behind Ronald Reagan, Jim­my Carter and independentJohn An· derson, but well ahead of Barry Commoner ofthe Citizens' Party. 
In 1981, the party says, Liber­tarians won 1 5 elections for municipal posts in nine states, chief­ly in non-partisan races. 
Few Libertarians can boast ofRan­dolph's stature in Alaska as a serious candidate who is spared the indig­nities usually inflicted on third-party candidates in other states. Randolph is routinely included in every forum for gubernatorial candidates, along with Democratic nominee Bill Shef­field and Republican Tom Fink. 
The fourth gubernatorial can­didate is Joseph Vo_gler of Fairbanks. representing the small Alaskan In­dependence Party . 
. . .Beirut 

continuedfrom page 1  
military calls a campaign to pacify  
the Moslem sector of the capital.  
The Palestinians fear the drive is to  
terrorize them and force them to  
leave the countrv.  
Israel invaded. Lebanon June 6 to  
rout the Palestinian guerrillas, and  
thousands of PLO fighters were  
evacuated from west Beirut in  
August. Thousands remained,  
however, in northern Tripoli and be­ 
hind Syrian lines in eastern  
Lebanon's Bekaa Valley.  
The Syrians have been in Lebanon  
for six years, ostensibly policing the  
armistice that ended the 19"75-76  
Moslem-Christian civil war.  
One security officer described the  
west Beirut tunnel network as a  
"city within a city." two yards  
beneath the earth. He said it was  
equipped with air raid shelters, food  
storage rooms. an underground  
prison, a torture chamber, an amuse­ 
ment center, a hospital, printing  
press and radio relay station.  
He and the other sources said they  
believed an unknown number of  
refugees fleeing the Sept. 16-18 mas­ 
sacres of civilians by Christian  J {  
militiamen might have been trapped  
in the tunnels when grenade explo­ 
sions blocked the exits.  
The sources could not say  
whether such people might still be  
alive but that they could be among  
the 380 listed as missing after the  
massacre in the nearby Sabra and  
Chatilla camps, the sources added.  
The Red Cross says at least 340  
people were killed in the massacre.  
The sources, who did not wish to  
be identified in accordance with  
government regulations, said the un­ 
derground network was discovered  
when Lebanese soldiers took up  
positions in Bourj el-Barajneh late  
last month after the departure of  
PLO guerrilla~.  



IS LIKE DRINKING BEER. 
START OFF WITH ACOUPLE OF TALL ONES. 
Red Auerbach 



r---~--.---------.----------------------------------------~­
The Observer Friday, October 8, 1982 -page 7 
Contemporary Shrew 
Theatre opens season tonight 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre opens its 1982-83 season tonight at 8 with a contemporary adaptation of William Shakespeare's 
The Taming ofthe Shrew. 
The show also will run tomorrow and next Thursday through Satur­day, Oct. 14-16. Tickets can be purchased at the door. 
Placing the production in a 

country/western setting, Julie Jen­
sen, assistant professor in the Notre 
Grand Juryinvestigates Ball State 
MUNCIE, Ind. (AP)-Prosecutor Michael ). Alexander of Delaware County said yesterday there is not enough evidence to call a grand jury now to investigate allegations of a possible conflict ofinterest hy mem­bers of the Ball State University hoard of trustees. 
The Ball State student newspaper, The Daily News, said it had dis­covered a possible conflict of inter­est involving four of the eight members of the board of trustees who have connections with local banks in which the school has in­vestments. 
"All I know is what I read in the 

story," Alexander said. "Whether a 
grand jury will be called will have to 
be decided in the future. I find the 
story interesting. But no one has 
presented me with any evidence." 
The story said board president Will Parker is a senior vice president oflndustrial Savings Bank at Muncie. 
The newspaper said that in 1981 

the bank declared a S 1 million loss 
six months before Ball State invested 
S 19 million in certificates ofdeposit 
with the bank. 
According to the Daily Student, 

BSU president Robert P. Bell also is a 
member of the board at Muncie 
Federal Savings and Loan. Shortly af­
ter Bell took office at the university, 
Ball State purchased certificates of 
deposit at Muncie Federal. 
Bell declined comment Wednes­

day, saying a statement would be 
issued early next week concerning 
the situation. 

Concert lottery 
Th1s space contributed by the publisher. 

Dame-Saint Mary's theatre depart­ment, said she hopes to "speak to people the age of the actors with in­corporating a dose of mythic America at the same time. 
"Although the play is frequently done and one can see a museum ver­sion of it anywhere, we hope to hit closer to home with the students (in this interpretation)," she added. 
Jensen said that The Taming of the Shrew was chosen as the season opener primarily since it represents "the most active, funniest, and wit­tiest play in Shakespeare's canon." 
Basically, the plot revolves around the confrontation between two equally strong, funny people ­Kate and Petruchio (played by Saint Mary's senior Heidi Lucke and Notre Dame junior Kevin Finney, respectively). The situations which arise before, during, and after their consequent marriage provide a dramatic backdrop for most of the play's action. 

Heidi Lucke and Kevin Finney rehearse the leadfor THe Taming ofthe Shrewlast night in O'LaughlinAuditorium. The show begins 
l.,.....,...~ .............~~~........_........... ~.~..,.. ...........................,...............
I 

MEATS FOR YOUR PARTIES  
~  Bratwurst· 10 Box ·19.50  
i  Hot Dogs -10 Box -12.50  
~  Hamburgers ·12 Box ·17.50  
!  Rhodes Food Setvices  
~  234-1021 

l~.....~...,.. ........ ~...,.......-....,..~...,...._... ................~..,..~ ......~......... ~.......,. t 
~....~ 
~ 
~ 
l ~ 
I 
~ 

Prices quoted on request 
Dixie Giannetto, owner of the former Giannetto's 
Bestaraunt, wishes to announce that her famous STUI'I'BD PIZZA , voted last year as Michiana's finest is now being served at Mr. Bentons. 
Hours 4:00-10:00 pm Tues-sat Closed Sun ct Mon 907 31st. St. South Bend Phone: 289-9008 

I;ecce=========================
Announcing 
The Newest Location of the 

1835 Lincolnway Bast, South Bend Hickory Smoked llibs Deliciously thick Pizza Pried Chicken BBEll ct WillE llow two locations to serve you: 183S Lincolnway East St. Rd. 23 ct Bittersweet South Bend, 288-8240 Granger 2?7-3143 
Film Club of "otre Dame presents Sean Connery 
as )ames Bond 007 in 


UFitOM ROSSifl WITH LOVE•• 
Starring Sean Connery, Daniela Bianchi, Robert Show 
Agent 007 Is caught up in an czlaboratczly contrived wczb of assasination and doublcz-crossczs as her attempts to thwart thcz plans of SPECTRE in this, the second of the remarkably 
successful )ames Bond films. Daniela Bianchi is the beautiful Soviet Cipher clerk who servers as bait for the trap, and Robert Shaw is Red Grant. SPECTRE's deadly assasin who stalks Bond across Europe and confronts him aboard thcz Orient Expr~ns 'in oncz of thcz most thrilling fight sczquczncczs vvczr filmed. 
Fri& Sot Engineering flud./7,9:1 5, 11 :30 fidm. $1.00 
-~--~ -------~---~----~--------~-------~----­
-~---~-------------.... 
The 0 bserver Friday, October 8, 1982 -page 8 

AgainstLugar 
Kendall sup~orts Fithian 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP)-State Sen. "The simple answer is that I don't nedy backer, refused a request to Michael C. Kendall has decided to carry grudges. I've tried to beat work on behalf of Hubert put aside personal feelings and cam­them down as best I can," he ex­Humphrey's campaign for president. paign actively for Democrat Floyd plained. "On balance, Fithian is Humphrey lost and Richard Nixon Fithian, the man who spoiled his going to vote for the issues I'd like was elected. hopes for the U.S. Senate. him to vote for many more times "I've always regretted that deci­
"It's difficult to forget hurts," the than Lugar will." sion," he said. "Politics isn't always a Jasper Democrat said yesterday. During the primary campaign, choice between perfect candidates "But I believe that the worst thing a Kendall rapped Fithian for his votes and people you agree with 100 per· public leader or politician can do is on nuclear arms, the MX missile and cent." continue to base political decisions racial equality measures, particular­But a big part of his decision was on settling old scores, rather than ly tax credits for private schools Fithian's support of striking trying to do what they think is the which discriminate on the basis of furniture workers at the Indiana 
best thing to do." race. Desk Co. in Jasper. Fithian sided 
It may come as a surprise that Over the summer, Kendall spoke with the union members, even Kendall, who once described Fithian with Fithian and resolved some of though it meant losing the financial as the ideological twin of GOP in­their differences, persuading Fithian support of businessmen in Jasper cumbent Richard G. Lugar, would to change his position on some of who had pledged to back him. embrace a man he fought so bitterly thse issues. "He came at a time when many against in the Indiana primary in Campaigning in Evansville, Fit· politicians didn't come. That was May. Add to that the widely held hian said, "There were never any pretty important to me," said Ken­belief among Kendall backers that real differences between us. And we dall, who does legal work for the Fithian double-crossed the young are both hundreds of miles from furniture workers. "It showed me he 
Queen Elizabeth II stops to chat with a group of Aboriginal 
lawyer by luring him into the U.S. where Richard Lugar is. The dif­was willing to run some risks for 
children in Darwin's main thoroughfare, Smith Street Mall, Wed­
Senate race and then deciding he ferences between us are miniscule, people who supported him." 
nesday during her walkabout. Atleft is Darwin'sMayor Cec Black. 
wanted the job himself. compared with our differences with Kendall concedes that his deci­
The Queen is latergoing to Brisbane to attend the Commonwealth 
"My mother told me two things Richard Lugar." sion to support Fithian could be a 
Games which are now underway. ( APPhoto) 
about politics. The first is that there Kendall's decision was in· double-edged sword. "Endorsing will be many hurts in politics. But fluenced, at least in part, by a deci­someone you disagreed with in the the other thing was that time heals sion he made 14 years ago. It was past may help you with party all wounds. I guess that balances during the 1968 presidential cam­regulars but hurt you with people out," Kendall said in a telephone in· paign, after Sen. Robert F. Kennedy who supported you on those issues," terview from hisJasper law office. was assassinated. Kendall, a Ken-he explained.





oble,® 

"I've thought about it a lot this summer and how it would appear. 
But that isn't the real issue," he said. "The real issue is what's best for the
OID!!I{S
PIZZA 

party and the state and the country,
277-5300 

not what's best for Mike Kendall." Kendall has agreed to speak on Fit· hian's behalf at dinners and rallies
• DJZZA DINNER • ~ 
around the state. He and his wife 
~ CFURTWO ~ $200 • Sharon will host a fund-raiser for Fit· hi an inJasper on Oct. 21.
Off •
• With Salad Bar • "The problem is I'm an idealogue 
and an idealist. At the same time I am
I $SOB SAVEOVER I I 
a Democrat and a pragmatic
. . .~~ 
politician who knows that to getSave even more on Dinner for Four. • Any Large Deep· Dish Sicilian, •
• those ideals implemented, you've
14" Monster or 16" or 20" • 
• 
$11.99 • Hand-Tossed Round pizza. got to have someone who's going to • • Medium Deep-Dish Slclllan, 12" • • listen to them," Kendall said. "I 

• 
Hand-Tossed Round or 10" Monster • • know damn well that Dick Lugar 

• 
pizza (your choice of toppings) • 2pll:las may be purcbased with • isn't going to listen." • 2 "Create-Your-Own Salad Bars • each coupon. cannot be used with any • • other coupon or dlscouot offer. 


• Ortnks not Included. Inside Dining Dilly. • one coupon per customer per vlsiL • One coupon per customer per vlsll Cannot • orrer good tbrougb October! 41982. • 
Broadcasters' 
• be used wltb any other coupon or dlscouot 
• oller. Offer good tbrougb October141982. • •• Good at Cleveland Rd. Store • Good at Cleveland Rd. Store 
award
• 
Across from DniYerslty Park Mall Across !rom University Park Mall • 
• w~ • w~ • 
presented
~~Noble1\_omaJts•I•Noble 1\.omaJt'S•• 
e,rorJ:mr 
opens its doots this SundQ.Y ftom 7:00-10:00 pm to Qll N D I smc students! 
plzzQ, munchies, subs, nQchos, Qnd tefteshments will all be Q VQiiQble ••• C.Otuf IN Ar4D RELAX \·'nH fP•.:wnr 
SOUTH BEND, lnd. (AP) -For· mer Gov. Otis R. Bowen yesterday received the Indiana Broadcast As­sociation's humanitarian-citizenship award, the highest honor presented by the statewide broadcasters' or­ganization. 
Bowen, a Republican, was cited for his accomplishments in open government and in medical and educational programs during his two terms as governor. 
Broadcaters called him "a strong voice for all mankind." 
Earlier yesterday, Sen. Richard G. Lugar addressed the group, which is holding its three-day fall meeting at South Bend. Lugar urged the con­tinuation of Reagan administration policies and said interest rates must come down more before the economy recovers. 
Lugar is seeking re-election to the 
U.S. Senate, running against U.S. Rep. Floyd Fithian, D-Ind. 
Lugar also said Indiana must con­tinue an emphasis toward re­training its workers for new fields and new jobs. Once an economic recovery is accomplished, the na­tion will find industry .is more effi­-ient and will need new skills from its workers, he said. 
The Center for Experiential Learning is sponsoring a slide presentation entitled "Universidad Iberoamericana Program in MexicO:' Sunday at 6:45p.m. in the Lyons Hall basement lounge. 
II 
......... 

The Observer _Friday, October 8, 1982-page 9 
---~--------~·~~-----~--~----------~­
Oktoberfest ends with Bier Garten 
Oktoberfest at Saint Mary's, ex­panded to three days to accomodate a new activity, came to a close last night with the traditional Bier Gar­ten and band. 
The Bier Garten was held in tents located east of Angela Athletic Facility. One of the tents featured food and non-alcoholic beverages for students under 21. 
The "No Problem Band" provided the entertainment for the evening. 
The annual celebration began on Tuesday, when students decorated residence halls in European and autumnal motifs. 
Activities 'continued Wednesday with a traditional German dinner at the dining hall. The Sound ofMusic, with Julie Andrews and Christopher Plummer starring in the saga of an Austrian household torn by the rise of the Nazi regime, was also shown 
···~ 
..,.,..,;~ 
that night in Carroll Hall. 

A new Oktoberfest activity, roller skating on campus, was introduced at Angela yesterday afternoon. Rol­ler skates were available for a $3.50 rental fee. The Sound ofMusic also was repeated last night in Carroll 
Hall. . The roller skating was added this year to give a new dimension to the celebration. 
Karen Hosinski, vice chairperson for the Student Affairs Planning Board, which sponsored Oktober­
·fest, said, "We were trying to change it (Oktoberfest). We wanted to ex­pand it so it didn't include just the Bier Garten." 
Hosinski said she considered this year's Oktoberfest successful. 
"Because we're trying to change the image, it will take time to get people enthusiastic," she said. 
The Observer Friday, October 8, 1982 -page 10 

Members ofUniversity Hospital's airborne ambulance team of Louisville, Kentucky, carry a patient into tbe bospital for treat­ment ofa crushed pelvis. This-was only the second patient to be transported by the new aerial service. ( APPhoto) 

AGOSTINO'S Specializing in PhI,._ tie Prime Rib, Seafood, Steaks and
s·t servin~ your favorite cocktails. : ep TAKINGRESERVATIONS 802 So. Walnut N 0 W 
South IMcl Take Eddy to Sample, turn right 232-2494 on Walnut. Banquet rooms available with option to create your own menu. Serving dinner at Spm Mon.· Sat. 
., 
0) 

co 
...J
L 
u 

(/) Ot!: 0 
::> ...
N al ::> 
0

w -z 
-· 
-· 
-· 
CD
-
ca 
U) "C
-
CD 0 
()
-
0 
...=..:::
.c: 
(J 

0 '-C) 
Conditions for blacks 
Guide gives mixed revie-ws 
NEW YORK (AP)-An upcoming and compiled by Barry Beckham, for the black language in the book," Black Student's Guide to Colleges head of the graduate writing Beckham, who is black, explained in rates the academic and social program at Brown University. A an interview. climate blacks can expect on 114 copy of the final manuscript was ob­
He said facts about each campus 
campuses, including some low tained by The Associated Press. 
came from questionnaires sent tomarks for race relations at some of The book focuses on prestigious, 
school administrators, usually the the nation's more prestigious predominantly white schools, but dean of students. Deans were asked 
schools. also includes many state universities to distribute questionnaires to fiveBlack-white student relations at and about a dozen historically black 
black student~ on campus of their
the University of Michigan, for in­institutions. According to govern­own choosing, who were asked for stance, arc described as "the pits." ment figures, about 1.1 million of "candid observations" about race Harvard and Radditl"c Colleges arc the nation's 12 million college stu­relations and the quality of supporttermed "impersonal." dents are black. 
services for blacks. Those students
Black students are "disenchanted The book provides statistics on are quoted anonymously in the
and unhappy" at the University of each college, including tuition, the book.
Arizona, according to the guide. number of black students and Such students observations have
The guide quotes a black student faculty, and the average amount of at UCLA as saying there is "an atmos­financial aid students can expect. already unsettled campus officials. phere of de facto segregation ...on Those are followed by two-to-three some of whom are criticizing the campus." book as tqo subjective. Bernard
page essays which evaluate the But it gives rave notices to the Goldstone dean ofstudents at UCLA.
quality and quantity of black llniversity of Iowa, and to Oberlin counseling and support service~. said that while he thought the description ofhis school's blal'k sup­
Colkgc, saying the small Ohio black-white relations on campus and liberal arts school "certainly h<t~ port programs was '!pretty good," he
in the surrounding n1mmunity, and "categorically disagreed" with the
provided a welcome and com­the party and social sccne black fortable environment for most of it~ youngsters <:<111 expt·ct. black studcnt who says in the guide black students." And tiny, sclcctivc The language, says Beckham. is that "de facto segregation" exists at 
the giant university.
Wesleyan University in Middletown, geared to the typical black teenager. Conn. is callcd "tops" for black stu­Such colloquialisms as "brothers 
"My concern is that it be under­dents. and sisters," when referring to black 
stood that that is just one student's The guide, to he published next men and women, appear throughout 
opinion," he said, adding that "I spring hy E.P. Dutton, was edited the book. "I was trying to get a llavor 
think l!CLA's reputation is certainly 
LOWEST LIMOUSINE RATES TO AND FROM MICHIANA REGIONAL AIRPORT AND SOUTH SHORE 
24-hour-a-day, Door-to-Door Convenience Small-package delivery available 
YELLOW CAB SERVICE 
Call 233-9333 

1/) 
r:: 
.... G).-G) 
~(I) Q) --·
e,c :.::: 1-r::-·
C.(/) G) 
0 

Q all G) 1/) 
~ 
(I) 

::J ...... (/) Q)U. 
w a:~ Q.3:~ti
c G) 
0..<( ::. ::J G)
zw fh...:. ~ 00.c
~ ·-(I) al 
-0 c5 -~~ () w
CD "~ 
m 0 
0 
LO 
~ .... 
0 
Q) > 
z 
0 
~(I) ~~ 

-w 01ca -· 
II' 

strong enough to withstand any negatives a reader may cull from this descriptio11r." 
The actual writing was done by Brown University students, both whites and blacks, says Beckham, al­though he says he wrote several profiles himself 
The praise for many schools was as lavish as the criticism for others in the guide, and Beckham said the picture the book provides of the black mood on American campuses is by no means all bleak. 
~CI) 

• LO,.!. .~ ~ 
u; -.£: r..... r:n 
Q) r::occ 
Cl :::1·-:::...a
... 0 

o""Oi::._
Ill 
~ 

u ET"" ca Cl)
(.) 

0 3: :::~ ,.!_ LU ;::,
·;;;­

0 ~;co o 
a. Q) I .C\1 LU 
0 Q)C:::
a: :e 
4i ~·= q;
Cl '0 a. Q
... w 

0 ·;: 1/) ca C) lL. w .c ~ ..t: C: LU 
G>"" U·-~ 
c: m.c() ~ c 0 
0 0 -I '­
c:: ~ 

'0 Q;r::G>O~ 0~
Ill ~·-~
CD:S (/) c: w ­
E LU

a. 1 ca ~ "-! 
1/)-ca
::s 

(.) ·::;, 1/) (/) m a
~a: cU ::~:· 0.~'-'Eq 
..!::! I-E;;:: ~ :J 1--i 
~ Cl 

ca~ ""-CIJI
c: ... uG>oma:CD :0::s ... E u UCI) U: o==: ~0
> 0 

-= 
(/) .::&ca; ._
Q) ~ £;:W>:!JE
::JQ)~w :::::Ji 
•I.. 

c 0 r:: a: :§
z 5 w (/)-a: 
0 ..:; 1/) < (I) LU 
I-(/)~ w "tl f
>I> ...
-'0 1/) < en ..,J'0-q;
z 
w.r:: :I: ::::... ­
C):::> (.)

G>:: ~ LU 
::) ~o..Ocaa. ~.E >-LU Cl) 
1/) 

-----------------------~-----------------------------------------------­

Editorials 
Friday, October 8; 1982-page 11 
·Pendulum swings back, or does it? 
On Election Day 1980, the voters delivered what appeared to be a mandate for conser­vatism. Reaganomics, the Moral Majority, new federalism, et al. 
With the mid-term elections less than a month away, the political polls are showing that the pendulum may be on the verge of swinging back to a more middle of the road political philosophy. · 
Randy Fahs 
Friday Analysis 
Appearances can be a bit deceiving. The 1980 election was not a clear mandate for any­thing. It js true that Reagan and many of his fellow conservative Republicans were swept into office with large majorities ofthe popular vote. But, one must take into account that people vote for candidates for a variety of reasons. Some of the vote undoubtedly came from people who strongly believe in a right­wing political and economic philosophy, but few people are really well-informed on issues or are that dedicated to a political philosophy. 
It is my contention that the driving force behind the massive Republican majority was a · vote against the Carter Administration and Democratic policies which proved to be inef­fectual in international politics and domestic economics. In reality, the only mandate in the I980 election appears to have been apathy. The I980 election had the lowest voter tur­nout in American history. 
In the 1982 election, most political analysts predict that the Democrats will gain between twenty and thirty seats in the House of Representatives and will close in on the Republican majority in the Senate, though they likely. will be unable to gain control ofit. I would like to point out that this change will not be due :o a massive liberal swing on the part ofthe electorate. 
The economy is in bad straits with more businesses failing each week than at any time since the Great Depression. Unemployment is approaching double digits, while the Reagan Administration is perceived as being pro-rich and unsympathetic to the problems of the 'working man. Once again, the turnout at the polls will be extremely low. Democratic gains will come largely from voters who are disaf-. fected with the Presient. In a sense, they will be negative votes for the party in power rather than a mandate for the Democrats. 
There is another important consideration: 
there is statistical evidence from every mid­
term election since the Eisenhower Ad­
ministration which shows that the party in 
P.O. BoxQ 
United Way needs reemphasis 
DearEditor: is that they are giving to -take second place 
I realized that many an article has been to pressure tactics? True, this information is written on the annual United Way drive here available and perhaps a few motivated stu­at Notre Dame, but after reading the dents will take time out from thier busy editorial "For Only Two Bucks, It's a Bar­schedules to do a research project on what gain," I feel compelled to comment. the United Way does. I feel, hovever, that if 
The article made its point -and a good the drive was only run emphasizing what point at that -in a highly satiiical and funny 
United Way does, the spirit of competitionfashion. As a section leader this year, I can 
would be self-generatied in that peoplesay from first hand experience that McGinn 
would urge others to give due to the worthyand Higgins' points were well taken. I found 
nature of the cause as opposed to easing a students giving their "fair share" more out of 
guilt complex. I am realistic in the sense that a sense of guilt and pressure than for any 
I realiz.e that some pressure may have to be other single reason (although I w..as careful exerted in order to benefit the United Way; to call it a "donation" and to exert no undue however, I feel that the emphasis on the pressure). And the girls who would not give giving in order to get lOW. has been taken did so for the simple reason that they did not to extremes at Notre Dame. like the way the drive was being run. And, to tell you the truth, I could.not blame them. The United Way drive at Notre Dame I know what many United Way leaders should be a show ofChristian charity rather would say, and have indeed said to this, "Oh, than a competition. I ·have heard this said they are the types who would never have time and time again. Ifthere is this much op­given in the firt place anyway." Perhaps this position to the way the drive is being run, is true -I too felt that 5.2.00 ·was not too the drive is due· for and overhual. One way much to ask for a good cause. However, I feel would be to simply give as much, if not that there is such a simple way to remedy all more, emphasis to the thirty-some organiza­ofthe animosity and futor generated by tl;lis tions that comprise the United Way, as well drive every year that I cannot even com­as to the advantages a central organization prehend why it has not been done from the like United Way, as well as to the amounts beginning. given by each dorm. Just try it for next year. I My queston is: Why aren't the goals and guarantee that you will have a much more worthy causes of the United Way given as responsive and less angry student body, and much advertisement as the "fair share" pos-" most likely a lot more generous giving to a ters or contributiOn grids? How can such a very worthy cause. fundamental part :>f fundraising -that of Phyllis Shea letting potential contributors know what it junior, Arts andLetters 
P.O.BoxQ 
To Rich Hunter 
Dear Editor: 
Tonight, the Irish Soccer team takes on Western Michigan. Should we win, this will mark Rich Hunter's 1OOth collegiate soccer victory. In just six seasons as varsity coach, Rich has a 99-27-7 record. 
Yet, as many ofyou know, Rich is not just a coach. He teaches in the business college and Law School, coordinates the Bengal Bouts, helps students in legal problems, practices law, and is involved throughout the South Bend community. No matter how busy he is, when asked, Rich has always made time for something more. Every year he gives more and more ofhimself, yet, rare­ly has Rich ever asked for anything in return. Therefore, we are going to ask for him. 
Tonight at 8:00 you will be able to send the best Thank you message ever sent by showing up for the game. We ask you to please take advantage of this opportunity to say, "Thanks a lot, Rich." 
Thank you for your time -we'll see you tonight. 
The '82 Irish Soccer Team 
power is going to be the big loser. The exact numbers are very close to the Democratic gains predicted by the politicaal analysts. 
There is undoubtedly a shift in the political pendulum from the philosophical right to more of a mainstream view. It seems to be happening in both houses of Congress al­ready. The "boll wevil" Democrats, that Reagan was able to woo to support his legislative policies, seem to have closed ranks and rejoined their partisan allies. The anti­abortion bill, the school prayer bill, and the balanced budget constitutionaJ ammend­ment, all supported by right-wing con­servatives, have failed. The Republicans in Congress are becoming more willing to com­promise with their Democratic counterparts than they are to have conservative Reagan­sponsored legislation rammed down their throats. 
While there has been a liberal shift in American politics (though I doubt that it will swing sharply to the left), Democratic gains in the upcoming election will be due to dissatis­faction with the policies of the president and his party, rather than to a change in political philosophy. Tragically, the real winner in the 1982 mid-term election will be voter apathy. 
NFL strike: who cares? 
I don't know about you, but I don't miss the Dame and Arkansas. It appears as if major­National Football League. college football is getting closer to a 
First ofall, there were three and a halfgreat semblance of parity at the top. Some of the pennant races in major league baseball. It may potential bowl-game matchups are interesting have been the best season for baseball, im­-like, how about lllinois vs. Stanford in the 
mediately following its worst. Despite predic­Rose Bowl? Itcould happen. tions to the contrary, baseball fans in most The NFL strike has allowed the American cities returned to the ballparks in droves to public to see football in forms that normally watch their favorite teams; having 14 ofthe 26 would receive no exposure. Those are the 
games as played in 3,000-seat stadiums, in the vast world ofNCAA Division III, and as played 
Tim Neely 
north of the border, in the Canadian Football League. As opposed to the NFL players, those
My Turn 

in Division III play for fun, the way football was meant to be played. And the CFL -well, teams still involved in pennant races in Sep­it is interesting to see football played on a 110­tember added to the suspense and drama. And 
yard field with 25-yard end zones, with one finally, the four division winners -St. Louis, 
point for punts kicked into the end zone. It is Atlanta, Milwaukee, and California -were 
cenainly more interesting than watching a new and different. It beats having the same old group ofmen playinggames with handshakes. 
Philadelphia-Los Angeles-Yankees-Kansas Something else that is interesting is pro bas­City combination again. This year's playoffs ketball. The season hasn't even started, yet the are more interesting than they have been in a competition has already begun: the National 
while. Organization for Women vs. the Chicago Bulls 
Next, it has already been an interesting year in Peoria. in Division I-A college football. Teams not And finally, maybe the best fringe benefit of recently associated with the Top 20 have the entire NFL situation is that we don't have arrived, like lllinois, LSU, and Boston College. to put up with Howard Cosell on Monday Some of those normally found in the upper nights. As knowledgeable as he may be about echelons, like Michigan, Ohio State, and Ok­football, it seldom carries across onto the lahoma, are not on that level (at least not yet, Monday Night Football broadcasts. anyway). And the pollsters cannot decide So with all the other interesting things 
' what to make of those "usual" teams that going on, it would not bother me if the NFL remain. Without losing a game, Pittsburgh has strike went on ... and on ... and on. I didn't dropped from its preseason Number One miss baseball last summer; I don't miss NFL 
: ranking on both the Associated Press and football now. There's plenty to keep me in­UnitedPress International polls. Other teams terested on Sundays and Monday nights with­, have dropped without losing, like Notre out it 
P.O. Box Q 
What's up in Central America 
We were welcomed into their churches, our strong mutual interest in Central their homes, and their neighborhoods, over America, we have formed the Central and over again. The genuine warmth and America Action Awareness Committee. Our openness which characterized our rec main concern is with the issues, the reception by tne people of Nicaragua last struggles, and the people ofGuatemala, Hon­May was an experience in community I will duras, Nicaragua, and El Salvador. Our goals never forget. Through the Program in Global include the following: to provide current, Community, I and four other ND/SMC stu­valid information about the situation in each dents had the unique priviledge of visiting a of these countries through a variety of country pervaded by such a fine strength of sources; to bring in.and/or publicize movies spirit and concern for the common man that and speakers coming to campus pertaining it i~ still a source of wonder -and inspira­to these interests; to provide opportunities tion -for each of us. Yet upon returning for discussion and debate on related topics home, the Nicaragua ofU.S. newspapers and as desired by those wishing to participate; magazines was one of totalitarian extremes, and to encourage and support a sense of widespread fear and bloody massacres. solidarity among the SMC/ND community What is the truth? How can we responsibly with the people ofCentral America. assess the situation'when much information contrasts so markedly with our experience? Our first general meeting is planned for 
Our visit to Nicaragua was the culmina­Monday, Oct. 11, in the Little Theater of tion of a semester long program in Mexico LaFortune at 6:30 p.m. Our tencative during which time we focused part of our schedule includes a brief presentation studies on issues of Central America. Since followed by a discussion of our plans and returning to Notre Dame and St. Mary's this goals. We welcome everyone and anyone in­
fall we have met several times with fellow terested; bring your friends, questions, ideas students, some of whom participated in the and suggestions. If you have any questions, lbero-Americana program last spring, also in please call T.}. Conley at Z77-8061 or Ellen Mexico. As a result of these meeti~~~ and Hawley at6962. __ 
==Ihe_Obseorer== Editorial Board DepartmentManagers 
Tbe Obrerver is an independent newspaper publisht:d by the students of the 
Edltor-tn-Cblef..............................Michael Monk Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not nt'Cessarily 
Managing Edttor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller.............................................Eric Schulz 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news i~ report· 
Executive News Editor.........................Kelli Flint AdvertisingManager.......................Chris Owen
eJ as a(curately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of 
SMCExecutive Edttor............Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager..................Maura Murphy
a maJority of the Editorial Board. Co.nmcntaries, opinions and letters are the views 
Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager ..........................Ray Inglin
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn SystemsManager ...........................Bruce Oakley
the frce expression of varying opimons on campus, through letters, ii encour38ed. 
Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown 
Photo Editor...................................Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 465S6 (219) 239-5303 
ty'1hey didn~t open with "Substitute", I have seen. o.ne Who's Nextwas represented by a wonderfully 
J. or more concerts on every tour The Who has made melodic "Behind Blue Eyes" done under a blue light set, since beforeKeith Moon died, and they opened every with daltry proving his gravel·and·honey voice can still one with the same song. This was only the first ofmany do justice to a soft· ballad. Baba O'Riley received the differell(:es noticed at Wednesday night's concert in the usual tumultous screams of"teenage wastt:land", and Rosemont Horizon. worked as wellas.it ever has. 
The Who opened with "Can't Explain", and from that . . The choices from WhoAre You were two ofthe best· ·"~oment I knew that this concert would be something received ofthe rtight;"Sister Disco'' came relatively ear· .p..cial. This tour has been billed as the band's farewell ly in the program. and was accompanied by two sets of 
''-Ia ou~untry, and I believt: It; the to.ur may go. on for spinning. choreographed spotlights on either side of e ( urs, and reliable ones at that, are already · the stage, and the tide cut drew a vote ofmass hysteria circu ng t Pete Townshend and company will.be during which Townshend proved himself still one of returnin th~ a(ea sometime in December), but once the guitar greats as well as a master ofmyriad styles the group le . s for·f.t:igland, I don't think they will be (yes, Paltry did his running in place ac;t through almost back. And that ~ns ~· for Wednesday's concert the whole song and never missed a note). confirmed in my mlntJ that'IJ:!e Who is still the best con· The truly new works performed, however, didn't cert band in existence:•:. comeoffquiteaswell. Thegroupwiselystuckwithone 
cut from Face Dances, "The Quiet One", which has The opening act was ignotecl by itu,: majority ofthe replaced the older "My Wife" as Entwhistle's showcase audience, in large part because t~wc)c._still strug-piece, and was a particularly pleasing work in concert, gling to obtain access to the arena, •ch,~le ade· but promotional considerations dictated that the band quately ~anaged and ushered, se~med~lyCs{>able perform a large number ofselections from It's Hard, ofcontaming the pres_s ofhumanity that de~.-s,~ and with the notable exception of"Athena", most of the warm-up band fimshed. ~ ·,, these seemed, well, just not quite right for a Who con-
Afte~ '_'Can't Explain" the..main attra~.t~on suc~u~~-The songs require a level of musical fidelity that is to tradition and belted _o~t Substitu.te m cl_assi~ sty just~t available on stage and that doesn't mesh with with Roger Daltrey thnllmg the audience With his t shend/Daltry style ofperformance. This, I 
microphone-twirling gyrations, popular since the days thi~is~ ain reason that The Who will be reverting ofTammy. to the ~io most oftheir future work. 
After the two favorites, known best from th~Meaty, For, after~~ en are getting ofage, and it Beaty, Big andBouncy anthology, the group started in-would seem a litt(e in ere for Daltry to harp once to some works from the new album,It's Hard, the first again, "I hope I die~forc). et old." (Several people by bassist john Entwhistle (see album review at right). complained after the ~rt . t "My Generation" In all, the band played six cuts from their newest work, wasn't played; but really, t~ ~it ...) Townshend spaced through a free-for-all ofclassics. Definitely one looked his best in years W ~d~y ~t (death toll: , ofthe crowd's favorites was a medley from the album two guitars), but I can't help won-.ng'bQ.._w much of " Tommy, which began with a searing rendition of his contagious enthusiasm was based· rei*.:_' Won't "Pinball Wizard" and finished up with "We're not gonna Get Fooled Again" (the best I've ever se it dOk). 
take it"; during the latter, a batten oflights was lowered "Naked Eye" and "Summertime Blues" were · · d behind the stage to illuminate the crowd in front, and to perfection as encores; one puts a lot into any~ng -,,, "'--'-'-'----'---'-'-'-'-'--------the effect was reminiscent ofthose days when the one does for the last time. group used to perform the entire rock opera in concert. I will miss The Who. Ifthis really is their last tour in 'l'woc:uts flem~~~ wereirll:ludiWift die ~~t8c:D.-cn iD lll1lllic il U'Ulycomtngto an·· 
program: Townshend stood alone on stage to begin end. No one has ever lent such sophistication to rock In "The Real Me", anotherctowdpleaerpelformed10 ~Butdlealtumawtllkeepcom.lng.llttdtbe perfectly that it sounded like a cut off a "live" album; music which will become the "classical" ofour era is later on Daltry paid his dues with "Love, Rain O'er Me" 

I 
I 
; I 
I 
.---J.. 
. I 
Trivia Quiz 51 
W
ell, my editor talked me into Neshi ( Ertegun), Gerald (Wexler) doing a quiz on The Who this -they were the four founders of week. My knowledge ofThe Who the label definitely does not rank with that I 8. Booker T. and theMemphis have on, for example, The Beatles or Group('s) The Rolling Stones. But I think I've 9. McCartneyProductions, found ten questions to challenge all Limited the Who-siers in the audience. 10. Love, Togetherness, andDevo­
First, unfinished business. Here tion are the answers to last week's ab­As you can see, all very straightfor­breviations quiz. The letters ofthe ward .. .I think. Now on to my quiz 
abbreviation are in italics. on The Who, without further ado. 
I. Music Corporation ofAmerica 1. Who was their drummer prior 
2.Anna,Bjorn,Benny, andAn­to Keith Moon? (He was replaced i nafrid (the members of the group) because the band's managers con­
3. EX Yes and Zeppelin (the com· sidered him too old at 35.) position ofthe band, offormer 2. In their early days, The Who, members ofthe two groups) despite having muc)l British succes~ 
4. BroadcastMosie,/ncorporated received little profit from their 
5.Electronic andMusicalln· recordings. Finally, as a protest dustries, Ltd. measure. they left Decca Records 
6. 
Brothers Trucking Express and recorded one single for another 

7. 
Bert (Berns ),A hmet (Ertegun), label -and immediately thereafter 


-· ·~~, .. "" .' ' ·."-'­


"Rodt iS t#tati/t amillion other things as well:It's . ·. soti~~>'ldvi;ili:Tiirn';:i5aiiearty ...•. • . · . an indescribableform ofcommunication and enter­excellent voca:isby RogetDaltry and Pete Townshend tllinmentcombined, and it's a two-way thing with and an excellent synthesiter background. "Dangerous" very complex but realfeedback processes." features.a pul:lating bass .... i(s a classic Who ~c;>ng ~ 
· ·· · Pete Townshend forceful drumming, .and the.synthesizerbuitds.tension up for the guitarwhich takes it and runs."One At A 
With this t<)ur;·'Ote.Who wHJ end tlie. feedback. . T~mc"' startswith a weird horn·optning that works process thatTownshendalways valued in his writing. · a. d.rum solO and a guitar riff. It roc~s along with According to interviews,The Who does plan to con;·. Townshend throwing in awesome guitar licks tinue recording, only Without the tours. How this will out the song. ·•· ...· .. · . affect future albums will be seen./rs Hard, however. is . It's Hardopens with ''Athena", a song tlllt enhanced by the threatofthis being the last Who a!-. placed along side the best ofthe old~t.·tbo,.aterial. It bum. openswith an acoustic guitar, wit~ ex~ent rhythm 
Townshend had always wanted to do more with rock guitar driving the song along,~ wh9"i'ownshend . and roll thari create music -he wants to create · sings "just a girl, just a girl, .i*afP'." the song is com-thoughts. This album shows a maturity the others . plete as one ofthe best)s,iGifes'J!fie Who has ever had. hinted at, and fulfills its promise as an end ofan era "Why Do 1 Fall FOJ>l'hat" and the title cut both have 
The band is as tight now as they ever were in their excellent backgrOIIDd vocals and synthesizer work, prime. Roger Daltry's vocals soar and growl, Pete with the formet'featurfng some brilliant piano work and Townshend's writing is incredibly strong, and his guitar a thumpintJil~~ tfiat works like left jabs. "Cook's fills may be his best ever.john Entwhistle wrote three Countc:y'"tiii!IRJ-'townshend's guitar work, with solos great songs, and his bass playing is still as pounding and that.'ldd-~xtra dimension. Daltry and Townshend's 
innovative as ever. wJcals"ork together, with Entwhistle's pounding bass But the key to this tightness may be Kenney Jones. / /wnllr(ng the song along. His drumming holds together the group like Keith ./ _..,.:(.f;~~ Known No War" opens the second side, with an Moon could during his best days. The beat is so!ifl'and //~pening vaguely reminescent of''Won't Get Fooled rhythm changes are effortlessly made.Jones')atrc~ Again", only darker and a trifle slower. voice in the band has improved the group4ild e . "One Ufe's Enough" and "A Man Is A Man" features The Who a foursome again. // . . piano work by Townshend that highlights the delicacy 
It's Hard is a true growth from~ _. ass1cs. ofthe songs, which talk about the life men thought they Their is a quietness to the albu~cvc_n the harder-lived at the time and what it turned out to be like years rocking songs. It's not a me · , or even a sign of later. 
losing their touch. lnstc:,-it fits eir lyrical message Both sides close with moody songs, "Eminence with a more somber)'llllch. outmake no mistake, The Front" creates a dark, moody environment for a study of Who Who is still plllyinKtrfeath-taking rock and roll. social behavior and people's masks to others. 
Maybe the~ is that The Who have become "Cry IfYou Want", the last song ofthe album, starts thoughtfuLlllllr• ics start from a preconcieved base, out withfeedback, although it is symbolically softer, and th~y on from there, as opposed to the total smoother, and under more control. The lyrics talk cha911that ked The Whb, especially in their early about reflecting upon things people said and did when livts · they were younger. "Once it was just innocence/Brash 
/ .. As ways with great Townshend songs, the music ac-ideas and insolence/But you will never get away /With -----------.liiiiiiiiii••iiiiiiiiiiii.iiiiiiiiiil~
L'"_. D!'llpanies the lyrics. Moods are set for the messages the things you say today." that blare through between piercing guitars, room­filling synthesizers, popping bass, and rolling drums. Chairman TownsheAd has always been famous for his 1---~--*i••*n••ac--anu •101gs, 'W's quotes on • r<>ca scene, and pr~y .-most •.:----· Your Tum", "Dangerous", and "One At A Time." The sightful concerning himself and The Who and why they 
' " 0' QIt I ttlleleRgtt.......~llft!'·Mf­teef' gotHg~~ ''8eln~l~de'Miie ;[ "'ar ---~----'-­
typical ofthe talented bassist. His songs are usually dark we're the only rock band on the face ofthis planet that and slyly witty. OnIrs Hard he has written three solid knows what rock and roll is all about." 
.,_•p',M;;t.. i. · 1l;' ~ :J:-:­
••• t I•· o J (VI •,• I ~ 
f~ 
. J
\.,., 
·J· 
Tim Neely 
rock trlvin 

were re-signed to Decca on their terms. Name the one single (A and B relea<>ed in Britain several years sides) for the other label, and name before the Live at Leeds LP came the American label on which it ap· out~ peared. 
3. Fill in the blanks in this history 7. Between 1969 ('Tm Free") and ofWho names: "They were first 1973 ("Love, Reign O'er Me") The known as--, then became The Who released eight singles. Five of 
Who, then became The High Num­them, at the time of release, could 
bers, then became The Who again, not be found on LPs. Name them. then performed under --for a While you're at it, name the one of brief time, and thenfinally and ir­the eight which was the biggest (it 
revocably kept the name The Who." was one ofthe other three). 
4. 
While they were known as The High Numbers, they recorded a 8. The only number-one LP teatur-. single for British Fontana Records. ing The Who was ­Name the A and B sides. 9. Each ofthe four main members 

5. 
This record peaked on the ofThe Who (Pete Townshend, American charts at number 74, but it Roger Daltrey,John Entwistle, and is considered the definitive Who Keith Moon) released at least one single. Name it (That's not much to solo album. Name each one's first. go on, but if you think about it, there 10. What was strange about the should be no problem.) Who Are You album cover? 


···-.·~ . ;.. 
, 

The Obsvrver Features Section Friday, October 8, 1982 -page 14 
This gtowing old 
yt is clear to me that writing -or sometimes talking, as is still distant when one needs to pack. A necessary .Ln a homily -is a way I have ofcoping with worries preliminary has been taken care of, that's all, like seeing or wonderment. Getting it down on paper helps. Ifit is that your passport is in working condition. You arc free 
-
honest writing, I think it is of use to other people who to move to a distant country without violating the laws have similar concerns. If it is not honest writing, I am ofcustom. apt to discover the lie sooner than,anybody else. "Ah me! This growingold!" Noel Coward writes as he Thursday, October 7, was my birthday. Birthdays are turns into his 60's. "I suppose I should envy the afterlife 
landmarks on which we count all our yesterdays, and believers, the genutlectors, the 'happy-ever-after' ones wonder where our lives will go from here. Yesterday, I who know beyond a shadow of a doubt that we shall all thought a great deal about my mother, for my birthday meet again in some celestial vacuum, but I don't. I'd 
must have been a landmark in her life too. Mothers must rather face up to finality and get on with life, lonely or have a special regard for the anniversaries ofchildbirth. not, for as,Jong as it lasts." No one ever knows, beyond the shadow ofdoubt, and Rev. Robert Griffin there's the fun of it. It would almost be neater not to believe. For a Christian, there is this whole matter ofun­finished business: the interrupted conversations, the apologies, the promises, the regrets, the guilt. Ifyoulettets to a lonely god didn't believe, you wouldn't pray for the dead as a way ofmaking up for good timeslost by carelessness, and for 
My mother died this summer on August 22. When a good words you never bothered to write. 
person is old, blind and full ofsickness, you don't make As a priest making promises ofeternal life in the name their deaths occasions on which to quarrel with the or· ofthe living God, you ponder the evidence for the der ofthe universe. Ifyou have any class at all, you ac­-resurrection ofthe dead. Is it foolish to believe in 
cept the inevitable without the appearance of homecomings, as faith teaches us? Ah, my dear, I could whimpering. You don't let it show that you think the never write you an apologetics ofheaven that woulddeath is any big deal. 
not tease you with its inconclusiveness. Theology and Sooner or later, everybody's parents die. It seems philosophy can never be as personal as grief, replacing morbid to want to hang onto pain as though you were it with overwhelming truth more wholesome thanwallowing in self-pity. You don't talk about what you tears. 
are feeling. You keep your memories to yourself. 
Comfort comes humbly, like a barefoot girl doingSilence is not only macho; it is also etiquette. 
chores. It is a small song heard among the night soundsOne thinks of Clifton Webb, the actor mourning the ofa great city with crowded streets. Taxis toot their death ofhis mother, as described by Noel Coward in horns. Trucks and busses slam their way through traffic. 
this week'sTime: "Poor Clifton is still, after two months, Trains rumble underground, shaking the earth, and wailing and sobbing over Maybelle's death. As she was sirens scream to announce ambulances on their ways to well over 90, gaga, and had driven him mad for years, emergencies.
this seems excessive and overindulgent. He arrives here Above all the din, you hear a songplayed on a flute by on Monday (Dec. 19) and I'm dreaming ofa wet a sidewalk musician. 
Christmas." 

After great pain, a formal feeling comes, says E. D. 
Nevertheless, the death ofone's mother does rear­Emotion has worn itself out: numbness and weariness 
range the terms ofwhatever contract one has made 
takes it place. A chapter has ended·; the book has been .. --.... 
with the gods. Freud wrote a letter after his mother's closed. The funeral liturgy has dotted its "i's" and death. "Her value to me can hardly be heightened ... 
crossed its "t's" in an overwhelming way. Cosmetics no pain, no griet; which is probably to be explained by have done their best to disguise the loss and maintain an the circumstances, the great age, and the end ofthe pity illusion. You, in your grieving, begin the rest ofyour life. 
we had felt at her helple:;sness. With that feeling of Then, bringing peace, the tlute song offaith begins, liberation, ofrelease, which I think I can understand. I that sense that love has been made larger. Conversa­was not allowed to die as long as she was alive, and now tions begin in the shape ofprayer. Heaven touches you,I may. Somehow the values oflife have notably changed as personal as the sickroom you went to visit for a final in the deeper'Ievels." 
time. Human love has taken its place besides God's love Chaotic as the world seems, there are still the to cherish you forever, confirming the truth ofgospelsproprieties to be observed. The day seems unkind when about caring that is deathless. 
parents have to go to church as mourners to bury their I have the strangest feeling this year that birthdays are children. That, by itself, seemed like a sufficient reason a temporary convenience. I no longer need the cards for not telling my mother, last year, when my brother and cakes. Windows from eternity have opened on mydied. 
life. For the first time, I am content with growing old. 
"I was not allowed to die as long as she was alive," I hope you don't mind my writing about it. I wouldn't Freud writes, "and now I may." Ofcourse, the surviving have known how I was feeling if I hadn't put it down in son makes no immediate plans for departure. The hour words. 
DR. JECKYL fifty minutes too long 
ty1here are a great deal ofpeople ing. Imagine if you will my sitting destined to be included in the an­
.1 in the world who would take in the darkness, slowly realizing nals ofbad cinema. A group ofmen umbrage to someone's calling a that what was being projected on are playing cards; one ofthe men is motion picture the worst movie the screen before me had a very a large bald-headed Chinaman. The ever. Frankly, I tend to include good shot at being the worst movie straightman delivers his line: "Cut myselfin that bunch. Because a ever_ I broke out into a cold sweat, the cards." Okay. Has everyone film takes so much talent to make ruining what was left of my pop­seen the Marx Brothers in Horse­in the first place, someone who corn. I sank deeper and deeper in­feathers? Jerry Belson has. Now, I was making the worst movie ever tomyseat. could put up with lifting a joke if 
the offense were there but it isn't. 
How could this be? I'd already 
In time, the large oriental 

Dennis Chalifour seenSanta Claus Conquers the 
produces a cleaver, cries "Hie­
Martians, Plan Nine from Outer 
Yah," takes a whack at the cards,
Space, Little Shop ofHorrors and 
and misses. So he cries "Hie-Yah" 
Thunderbirds to the Rescue.
movie review again, takes another shot at the 
But never before had I seen any­deck, and misses again. Another would have to assemble an uni­thing like The First Fifty Minutes "Hie-Yah." Another attempt. Hur­maginable number oftalentless ofDr.]eckyl and Mr. ray, he got them. I'd never wit­boobs in order to achieve the nadir Hyde...Together Again_ I'm review­nessed a betterexample ofthe fine offilmdom. And since a man must ing only the first half ofthe film art oftelegraphing a joke. be at the very least halfway com­since that was all it took for the And yet this thing isn't even the 
petent at his trade to join a union cinematic magic to click and drive worst movie ever. Mark (Fridays) and union rules forbid the use ofa me out ofthe theater. Blankfield ruins that. His Keatonish non-union crew, making the worst sense ofstaight-faced baggy-pants 
Let's make a list. The script was
movie ever seems virtually impos­comedy makes the first five 
ill-paced and unfunny. The
sible. I resolve that ifthe worst minutes ofthe film only mediocre.
dialogue was flat and uninterest­
movieever truly does exist, it must But it doesn't take long for lousy to 
ing; the jokes were consistantly off­
surely have been made many year reign king. As soon asJeckyl takes 
target. I am being very
ago wi ten Hollywood was not the solution and turns into the
conservative when I say eighty 
quite so organized. drug and sex crazed Mr. Hyde, the
percent ofthe edits were bad. Con­
I'd say that is a pretty strong cheap jokes abound. 
tinuity was non-existent. The 
argument. Gosh, I haven't done a plot
sound was bad. The cinematog­
Last weekend, I saw a film that synopsis yet. Forget it. This movie
raphy was bad_ The acting was bad. 
came so close to making the im­h~ already taken up too much of ' 
One scene in particular seems
possible possible, it was frighten-your time. Not to mention mine. 

H
ome football weekends don't necessarily have to consist ofjust 
tailgaters, the game and more partying. Adhering to the.old 
adage that variety is the spice oflife, I have taken my traditional time 
out to put together a list ofthe weekend's event. Being that it is 
parent's weekend, why not take mom and dad to the theatre or the 
Nazz or (iftheir constitution is strong enough) the Engineering 
Auditorium. Could there be a better way to show the parental units 
what another side of Notre Dame weekends is like? 
•THEATRE 

The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre Department opens is 
Mainstage season this weekend with Pr:of Julie Jensen's production 
ofWilliam Shakespeare's The Taming oftheShrew. Petruchio comes 
to wive it merrily in Padua, displaced to an American western set­
ting, with his trusty servant, Grumio in tow. The traditional story of 
the breaking ofthe stubborn-headed Katherine is updated to con­
temporary times via the talents ofstudent designers Elizabeth Bot­
tom, Ed Moreno and Desiree Eartly.Jensen and Associate Director 
Kathleen Maccio have molded a production worthy ofviewing its 
less-than-two-hours traffic on the stage. The house at O'Laughlin 
Auditorium will open at 7:30p.m. tonight, tomorrow night and 
Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights ofnext week. Tickets are 
priced at S3 for general admission, $2.50 for students, senior 
citizens, faculty and staff. Important note: Friday night is two-for-one 
night -two tickets for the price ofone. 
•DANCE, MUSIC, ART 

A unique experience in sight, sound and mqvement will unfold at the Snite Museum's O'Shaughnessy Gallery II on Sunday, October 10 from 1 to 4 p.m. Dancers Wendy Taucher and Tommy Gomez will dance to an original music score, On Reflection, by PaulJohnson, as­sistant music professor. The setting is a sculptural space entitled On Reflection -A Space Transformed, created by Moira Marti Geof­frion, associate art professor. The scenario, On Reflection -The Autobiography ofan Image, was written by Thomas Left; assistant professor and designer/technical director in the Communication and Theatre Department. The sculptural space incorporates opaque, reflective and transparent surfaces as elements which define, at times, a real physical space and, at others, the artist's "real" space. The illusions oflight, shadow and imaginary forms are reflected by two wooden carved and painted sculptural pieces. 
•MOVIES 

It would be all together too easy to spend the weekend in either Annenberg Auditorium or the Engineering Auditorium. The screen fare is led off by tonight's showing in the continuing Friday Night Film Series sponsored by the Communications and Theatre Depart­ment. Eric Rohmer presents the last ofhis series of"moral tales" in his production ofChloe in the Afternoon. Rohmer sets up the moral dilemma facing an introspective Paris commuter played by Bernard Verley. The problem is posed irt terms ofChloe, a Parisian bohemian, or Helene, his suburban wife. This 1972 film is in French with English subtitles. Showtime is 7:30p.m. in Annen berg Auditorium. As always, admission is a lowly S2. 
What better way to drop out ofreality and into the world of cinematic fantasy than to go to the Engineering Auditorium and see From Russia Withlove? One in the continuing series ofJames Bond movies, it is the film on campus that will pack in all the domers who need a change ofpace from the tedium ofweekend partying. As al­ways, the best advice I can give is to get there early. Showtimes are 7, 
9:15 and 11:30 p.m. Don't think you can avoid the lines by waiting to see it tomorrow night. The lines will probably be longer tomorrow than tonight, so plan accordingly. 
•NAZZ 

Time for the oldies but goodies. Dan Keusal, a veteran ofthe Nazz stage, will take the mike along with his entourage offriends. Playing tonight at 10 p.m., Dan will be joined by John McEachen, Mike Thor­ton, Ann Berners, Debbie Hill, Ann Perrin and Terry Austin. Ifyour taste runs to Fogelberg orJames Taylor and takes a turn in various other directions, you will enjoy an evening with Dan immensely. Let me tell you a secret: ask him to play anything by James Taylor and then tell him later how much he sounds like Taylor. 
•OUTLOOK 

As we reach midway in the semester, the Monday Night Film Series, parts I and II present two films dedicated to a person or era. First up at 6 p.m. is a Sergei Eisenstein film, October. Made in 1928, this silent black and white film commemorates the I Oth anniversary ofthe 1917 Russian Revolution. Eisenstein incorporates his. own theories ofintellectual montage, integrating images ofobjects as metaphorical elements as well as the titles, into a total dynamic and plastic unity. Admission is S2. 
Following closely behind at 9 p.m. will be Francois Truffaut's The Bride Wore Black. He has dedicated his work to Alfred Hitchcock. Truffaut details a wedding, a time when the expression ofthe emo­tion oflove is at its greatest, in which the groom is murdered. He turns this scene oflove into a film ofrevenge; the bereaved wife searching for those responsible for his murder. Tickets are S2 and don't be scared by the French subtitles. We should all be used to them by now_ 
The Observer Friday, October 8, 1982 -page 15 

,.... ------·--­
------~ ~-----­
' 
The Observer Friday, October 8, 1982-page 16 
UNBEATABLE  Closest liquor  
PRICES!!  Si\)re to N·D· Campus  
1621 South Bend Ave. (only)  


' ' Your Keg and Quart Headquarters'' 
·­
_._ 
j .. l 
l. 
, 
~. 
Hamm's

$4.99 case24cans 
************************* 
Pabst 

$5.99 case24cans 
*******************•***** 
Quart Beer Specials Old Milwaukee $6.99 
Budweiser  $8.99  
Pabst  $7.99  
Strohs  . $8.99  
CARLO ROSSI  
~$4~9  BIG 4 LitER  


Budweiser 
Bud Light 
$29.99 
$28.99 

Prices Good Thru Oct. 12, 1982 
Shooter Specials (750 Ml) 
Jack Daniels $7.99 Jim Beam $5.49 Jose'Cvervo Tequila $6.99 Frangelico $11.49 Southern Comfort $6.49 Steel Schnapps $6.99 
Fire Bailers 
Bacardi 151~ $8.59 · Wi!d Turkey 101 $~.99 Everclear 19Qt­(grain alcohol) $8.99 J W Dant 100 ~ $6.59 
Wine~ 
J. Roget Champagne 750 Ml $1.99 Riunite Lambrusco 750 ML $1.99 Ronifato Bianco 1.5 L $1.99 
· Bar Stockers 
Bellows Gin 1. 75 $9.99 Calvert Gin 1. 75 $9.99 Macintosh Scotch 1. 75 $11.99 Kanchatka Vodka 1. 75 $8.99 Lord Calvert 1.75 $9.99 
The Observer Friday, October 8, 1982 :-page 1 7 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the busmess day pnor to tnsertion. All classifieds must be prepatd. 
etther in person or through the mat I.
Classifieds 

FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI STUDENT TICKEt' 

WILL SWAP 2 MIAMI GA·s FOR 2 Pm EAST COAST T AILGATER ON GREEN­GA'S. CALL STEPHEN 3407 FIELD THIS SATURDAY. ALL D.C. 
RIDE NEEDED TO MILWAUKEE FOR Best offer. Charlie x1027. 
BREAK WILL SHARE EXP CHANTAL
NOTICES 7770 TICKETS 
CLUB MEMBERS SHOULD BE THERE 2 Miami Tix 50 yd. Line!! Best offer 277-Need 2 Miami G.A.'s. Call John at 277-IF THEY WANT TO ABUSE BILL!! IT'S 6646 WORTH IT! 
1759. IS YOUR HAIR GETTING IN THE WAY RIDE needed for TWO to MPLS/ST. OF YOUR STUDIES?? PAUL area for OCTOBER break. tor oc­
I NEED 2 GAS AND 2 STUDENT TIX needed: 2 Miami GAs for Mom & Dad. For Sale: 1 Student Miami Ticket. Call J.A.L. -You·re ok!!-Enjoy your lirst per­
CAlL MICHOLE FOR A HAIRCUT tober break. Will pay usual. Call Phil or FOR ARIZONA. CALL JACK-x8876. Th1s is the1r only chance to see the Irish in John at 277-1759. sonal.-a.d.m.
TODAY! louat876G. 
action. CALL MARY 8884 or 8966.
ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND $6 FOR 
NEED 1 MIAMI GA FOR ·LITTLE SIS needed up to four N.D Miami tickets .. call -----PHI LA CLUB----­
GIRLS ATTENTION SKIERS: Marketing coor­
CALL PAUL8362 I need 3 G.A.'s lor PENN STATE. We're Greg 2338091 1) BUS SIGN-UPS TUES. OCT. 12,
BEST TO CALL AFTER 3 AT 7850 dinators needed to promote high quality 
talk1ng do or die situation. Ask for Jay at 6:30 BADIN HALL sk1 and beach trips on campus. Earn com­
2 MIAMI GA, 35 YO L. Best Oiler, CALL 1779. NEED 2 OR 4 ARIZONA GA TICKETS. 2) MIAMI TAILGATER-FREE 
WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM $2995 mission plus FREE TRAVEL. Call Summit 
2826. 10:00 PM $$$CALL MIKE AT 1475 
3) TIX AVAILABLE FOR NAVY GAME­

64K Microcomputer.lener quality pnnter. Tours, 800-325-0439 
HELP! I need 2 Miam1 GA's. Laura 4432 contact me nowword process1ng software. CP/M. Basic. 
NEED 2 MIAMI GA's Call Jim at 3342 NEED STUDENT TIX TO MIAMI. CALL Chuck 288-0725 Kerry 8021 (410 Bad1n)
Call 277-7720 RICH ALUMNUS WILL PAY ANY PRICE 
WILL SWAP 2 MIAMI TICKETS FOR 2 JOHN x3554. 
FOR MIAMI TICKETS. CALL DANIEL A. 
WILL TRADE 2 MIAMI GAS FOR 2 
PENN TICKETS. CALL STEPHEN 3407 GATER DE TAIL-For all Jose·s students NEED A RIDE TO BUFFALO OVER (61 7) 492-8400. 
ARIZONA GAS. CALL GARY 4586 SAVE ME FROM TAKING TYLENOL.! from last year-Sat Oct 9 11 :30 til kickoff­NEED 2 GA tix for Miami game. If you NEED 2 PENN ST GAS ·ROB 1782 Green Field -Look lor HOLA SIQn FALL BREAK--WILL PAY CALL ROB 
6721 HELP! IS ANYONE GOING TO I NEED 1 STUDENT TICKET FOR MIAMI want more than $20 per ticket. pleaseSYRACUSE FOR FALL BREAK? I NEED FOR MY CRAZY LITTLE SISTER CALL don't call. If you want less. call Shirley at LITTLE BROTHER and LITTLE SIS Does the U.S. government tell us all that rtSTUDENT REP NEEDED to promote our A RIDE AND WILL HELP SHARE GAS 
ANN 1292. 239-5303 visiting-Need 2 GAs for Miami call Mike-knows? Come see"MISSING" Oct 12, 13.
annual Spring Break trips to Florida and ETC PLEASE CALL CHRIS AT 2703 3301 our Winter Ski trips. Reps. rece1ve FREE FEMALE RELATIVES WILLING TO----­NEEDED: Student Tix for Miam1. will doTRIPS plus commission. Call or wnte: NEED RIDE OR RIDERS TO TAMPA-ST 
FOR MIAMI GA S CALL ROBO AT x232-HELP! Need desperately to sell 4 Miam1
anything to get them. CALL 1623 HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY LIZ KENTRA!!! 
COASTAL TOURS. INC. P 0 Box 68, PETE AREA FOR BREAK. CALL NANCY 
4731 ANYTIME tics before Saturday. $20 but price is ne­
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY LIZ KENTRA!!! parents coming to NO for parents day & thanx Oak Forest. IL 60452. (312) 535-3212. 3397. 
gotiable. Call 1689 or stop by 221 Dillon 

little sister is tagging along. i need one 
Need 2 or more GA tix to any home game Miami GA or next week HI be back in sub­There will be an official meellng of the esp. MIAMI. Big buck $$ Maureen 5097 
Wanted: Miami GA"a. Call287-3538. 
urban boredom! Will pay enough for you Mustard Club Sat. nile at 3:00a.m. in the (SMC) to retire rich. sam 1436. Club Room New members will be ad­TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 Need GA's to Miami, Arizona or Penn St. 
PERSONALS

Call 5268 (SMC) mitted through initiatiOn only. For det~sD.C. October Break Bus Signups: Sun­
THERE ONCE WAS A GIRL FROM N.D. 
Club President Mr
day, October 10 from 7-9 p.m. in Riders needed to Daytona Beech, NEED MANY MIAMI STU. & GA TIX. contact Mus!ard at 
WHOSE PHONE WAS 7983 
CALL KARL OR CHRIS AT 1751. PICK YOUR OWN APPLESII at the John 8502. SHE NEEDED GA'SLaFortune Ballroom. $75 roundtrip must Florida or any points along the way for Hancock Fruit Farm. From South Bend.
be paid in advance. October Break. Call Denny at 277-0838 SO HELL WOULDN'T RAISE Wanted 4 tickets in a row to Arizona take U.S.20 east -.6 miles after 20 John B-HAPPY BIRTHDAY'!! Need a· FOR THE GAME VERSUS MIAMI-EE 
SCIOn. 

game. Call 288-0955 or 277-3604. crosses the Indiana East-West Toll Road, place to hide? Just call. LM (had to make Hrhyme, you know--Diane 
on Fail follow WILL pay b1g bucks, the parental units are NEED 6 ARIZ. GAS-DOUG at 6166 signs. (219) 778-2096. Also: ready-To my Eddie, 365down, 900togo! Happy 
FLORIDA: 2peoplelooklng for a ride to turn right (north) Road. 
Ft. Lauderdale/Boca over October
LOST/FOUND 
very weatthy!) Anniversary Sweetie 6/8/85

break. Call x1 421 and ask tor Greg or picked apples. plums, pears; h Will pay $60 tor 2 Miami GAs. Call jams, candles, etc. Vish our Farm Market
Mark. 

WILL PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENN Roberta at 6553 a: orchards on your wa.y to and from CAROL: you wild woman. you. LOST:! MANILA FOLDER LABELED STATE GA TIX. CALL 312-565-5159 
Chicago. Open ovoryday from 9·6. GERMAN CALL TOM 8711 COLLECT AND ASK FOR STEVE RICH from want Bresk a teg, JAY 
Need ride this weekend to Mllwauk" parents Fla. to see 
LONGLEY. MIAMI game. Need 2 GA·s. Call 284-FOR WOMEN ONLY FELIX LOST: KEY CHAIN "AIR FRANCE" 
or O'hano. Cell John Higgins .t 287­
5050 SMC/ND WOMEN'S PICNIC 4186 or 239-5323 and leawa rMSuge.
WITH TWO KEYS ON IT. MAYBE LOST I NEED 2 MIAMI TICKETS AND 1 PENN Oct 10. 12-3 p.m. Potato Creek State 
·······················••••······

IN SENIOR BAR IF FOUND PLEASE .... ... STATE, PLEASE CALL CINDY AT 7092 Need 4Anzona GAs 283-7970 Park U.S. 31-S to S.R. 4, turn W, 4 mi. SHENANIGANS! CALL FI'IANCOIS AT 6818. 
need a ride to CINCINNATI on OCT brk park on right. $2 per person -payable at
call TIM 1579 
Need4Miami GA'sCall1225 Need three MIAMI GAs. Dad wants to picnic. NO-contact section leaders by LOST. LADIES GOLD WATCH ON come & see Miami, his alma mater get · Oct. 6, 6 p.m. SMC -sign in at hall desks DearCut1e,
NEED RIDE to OKLA-will share $$ call
FRIDAY NIGHT AT GUISEPPE'S IF Need 3 or 4 GA's for ARIZONA game. 
BEAT! Big$$$ call2960 by Oct 6, 6 p.m. Thanks tor "The Boys.. and all the FOUND PLEASE CALL x4310 SMC Please call T'Om -3360
Bob 8315 

beautiful times Since. As we celebrate this VULCH needs four GA's to Arizona Call Stan: Happy Birthday and Congratulation very first ninth, one year later, I WISh weNEED RIDE TO NORTH CAROLINA
LOST: A navy blue. zip down. light NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S. NAME YOUR his brother Tim 1 185 on DYXZ of the month could be together 1 love you very much,
FOR OCTOBER BREAK-Durham or
weather jacket with a Sexton· label on the PRICE. CALL 3242 and I sure do m1ss my B.
general vicinity.Will share usuai.Piease
collar. I need it badly, if found please call LIZ is today! Love,
FOR SALE 2 Miami GA's Eric x8407 KENTRA 21 Happy Johnat3625 HELP! Birthday' LKB MARCHING BAND MEMBER NEEDS 
call Cindy 7954 
HELP! Need Anzona tix for family Call P.S The Sarin Talent Show won't be theWanted 2 Miami G.A.s Call Pete 3125,
LOST· 1 Introduction To Jazz notebook. TWO MIAMI TICKETS FOR FAMILY 
Katie6781 Need Miam1 GA tix Call Jim same Without the Molesters! 
$$$$.

Left at listening center Monday night• Call Mark 8810 WANTED: 4 G.A.s lor Penn State game. 
Need 2 GA's and 1 student tic tor Miam1-EAST COAST TAILGATER IS COMING FIRST CLASS UA TICKET FOR SALERIDE NEEDED to Mlnnat1018 for Oc­
Will pay b1g bucks. Call collect. Steve lamily up for the game SATURDAY on GREENFIELD ALL $300 VALID FOR ANYWHERE UNITED tober Braak. Call C.thy, 3793. Thanksl
LOST-1 Adidas Windbreaker. Red with Longley at 312-565-5959. ext. 2081 
THOSE FROM MASSACHUSETTS FLIES VALID BTWN NOV20-DEC15 hood and stripes on sleeves. Call Mark MUST BE THERE! 
I need 2 Miami GA's call Jim 3528 CALL LEON 6740 need one LAST Miami GA call John
8810 . NEED ONLY ONE GA to MIAMI game!
8764(1ate) 

GOOD$$! Dave 8296 
WOULD LIKE TO TAKE SON TO SEE THE EAST COAST CLUBS of N.D spon­Please, A Man LOST: Green notebook & folder. Call 
NO WIN BEFORE WE MOVE FROM sor a MIAMI tailgater SATURDAY. On Steve at 1855 PENN STATE TICKETS needed for
Anyone gOing to/through OKLAHOMA SOUTH BEND. IF YOU HAVE 2 GA TIX GREENFIELD across from SA BAR Happy Birthday Shari! 
parents. Call 4624. 
Look lor flags and signs and llisten lor the Love,LOST: ONE BLUE AL300 STATS BOOK 
CITY? I need a nde lor Oct break. Call TO THE ND-MIAMI GAME, PLEASE 
accents. See all from MASS. on SAT Dad&Mom BY ANDERSON ET AL. IF YOU'VE PLEASE SELL US 2 GAs FOR MIAMI! 
CALL ME AT 272-5651 AFTER 8:30 
P.M. TONIGHT OR AFTER 5 P.M. ON
FOUND ONE RECENTLY OR COULD WILL PAY$$$$! Call Terri at 277-4820or FRIDAY. PLEASE Columbus Club Mixer After the Game Call LOGAN CENTER VOLUNTEERS: There 3 GIRLS DESPERATELY NEED RIDE
SELL ME ONE. PLEASE CALL KEITH at Nadine at 1302. 
Jamie Kimmel for details. Will be a dance at Logan TONIGHT from TO DC FOR BREAK CALL 6781 1169 
HELP! I NEED UP TO EIGHT G.A 'S FOR 7:00-10:00 New and old volunteers are THE ARIZONA GAME. WILL PAY ANY DAN KEUSAL AND FRIENDS AT THE welcome See you there!
NEED 3 MIAMI GAs CALL RICH AT 277­LOST: Tl55 Calculator on Fnday, 9/23. 
I need a ride to San f·•an lor Oct. break. I NAZZ-TONIGHT 10:00 
REASONABLE AMOUNT CALL MIKE1650 EVENINGS Call John L'Ecuyer at 232-0550. Kathy ­can leave Thurs. 1 0/21. Please call Sean 
AT 1520 

the one who called about my calculator. 
at 288-2204. Ride needed to PITTSBURGH for break SCREW THE BUS I NEED A RIDE 10 Please call me again. You gave me the 
I need Miami tix 3 stud. 2 G.A. Please call ... ························································· BIG BUCKS CHUCK Needs 2 Penn St Tix 
SANDY3818 NO.VA./0 C? OCT BREAK CALL JB. wrong number. 
Joe.8269
OCTOBER BREAK $65
Stu.orGA Need a ride for 2 down to the Miami/Ft. Carole King 
$$CHUCK 288-0725HELP!! MIAMI GAs DESPEAATEL Y Lost: lnterhall football helmet at Stepan 
Lauderdale area. Will share costs. Please Olivia Newton-John f1eld last Sunday. 239-5713 
NEEDED (3) $$$CALL KEVIN at 1580call6965. '._ Need Miami student & GA tix! Call Mike--Cheech and Chong Fly cheap to Boston call Donna 5472 1608--$$$ The Tymes SMC
DESPERATE FOR 2 MIAMI GA TICK­FOUND:CALCULATOR IN ROOM at 212 
need nde to CONNECTICUT for OCT America CUSHING ON WED OCT 6 
ETS. WILL PAY $$$. CALL MIKE AT
BREAK Doug x8389 my 83-year-old grandmother and two These are but five of the lum1nanes(?) APEX ROCKS 
1475. 
nuns need 3 GAs for the Arizona game. you·ll hear on th1 Is weeks editiOn ol Tim DILLON HALL HAPPY HOUR found: one set of car keys at Stepan 
RIDE NEEDED TO KANSAS CITY (OR 
Don·! disappoint 3 lnsh-Catholics Th1s 1s Neely s Tap 20 Time Tunnel, Sunday Frld•y 4-&pNEED MIAMI and ARIZONA GAS. CallCourts. Owner may claim at Adm1n lost & 
TO ANYWHERE ALONG 1-70 WEST OR for real. Call 3773. mght at 6 pm on WSND AM 64. as he goes 
John at 1580. I need as many as possibleFound 1-35 SOUTH) FOR BREAK -WILL back toth1s week in 1974 (Well, you cant "MISSING' DRAMA and SUSPENSE. SHARE USUAL-CALL KATE AT A376 
NEED ANY KIND OF PENN STATE TIX have the Sixties every week, but wait until Come see what 1ts all about. Oct 12,13 
CALL MEG-7628 next week when we go WAY back . ) Show1ngs 7.9:15.11:30. Engr. Aud NEED RIDER TO CONNEC­
NEEDED: YOUR MIAMI AND PENN ST TIX. BIG TIME!!!CALL1627TODAY
TICUT.FAIRFIRLD COUNTY
[FoR RENT FOR SALE MIAMI sTu TIX-20. 288-64o2 STRANGERS IN THE NIGHT. TO THE SMC SOCCER CLUB: YOU 
AREA.FOR OCT. BREAK CALL TIM exchanging glances MAY HAVE BEATEN THE IRISH B
I NEED UP TO THREE STUD TIX OR
1584 

Wondenng through the n1ght. TEAM. BUT WE RE GONNA RING WILL PAY A LOT CALL DAN 1801 NEED 1 OR 2 MIAMI TICKETS CALL GAS TO ARIZONA AND PENN STATE 
what were the chances. YOUR BELLES!!! TONIGHT. THE IRISH CABINS FOR RENT -45 minutes from WILL BE ROCK IN I!!
LOU 1594$$ Notre Dame. 616-424-5617 HELLO!! I REALLY NEED A RIDE TO STRANGERS IN THE NIGHT. 
DESPERATELY NEED 6 ARIZ. GAS WASH DC AREA FOR OCTOBER exchanging glances RESIDENTS OF NEW YORK/CONN
CALL ROB 6827 DESPERATELY NEED 2 G.A. S FOR EITHER MIAMI OR ARIZ CALL JIM 6811 
FURNISHED 5 ROOM APT· 3 FAIEND­BREAK. Will share usual & munch1es for Wondering through the n1ght. THERE WILL BE AN OCT BREAK BUS 
l Y FEMALES, NEED 4TH. RENT NOW· the ride. Call Sara anyt1me x2194 Thanks. what were the chances .. STOPPING IN N Y C.. FAIRFIELD.
NEED 2 MIAMI GAS. CALL MIKE. 277­
XMAS CALL LIZ X4263. HARTFORD. SPONSORED BY NEW 1 ARIZ. STU. TICKET FOR SALE $35 
6880. 
YORK METRO CLUB SEATS ARE TWO APTS in one house for rent: each Anyone going to/through OKLAHOMA -----PHILA CLUB-----STILL AVAILABLE. CALL TED 1101 OR
NEED 2 MIAMI GAS BADLY CALL TOM CALL DAN 1 853 8706
has LA. KT, BR; front porch; 1651175 (OR CITY? I need A ride for Oct. break. Call. 1) BUS SIGN-UPS: Tues.. Oct. 12, FRANK 3164 FOR INFO 320 tor whole house) & utilities; 718 E Colleen (SMC) 4212. 
DESPERATE: I NEED 2-4 PENN STATE 6:30 BADIN LOUNGE Colfax: 234-4620 evenings 
Need MIAMI IIX-Please call1738 GAS RIGHT NOW--WILL PAY$$$ CALL 2) MIAMI TAILGATER: Free Need nde to PENNSYLVANIA OR N.J. 3) TIX AVAILABLE FOR NAVY GAME­
JIM 3132 NOW-PLEASE!!' O.K. NOTRE DAME WISH YOU HAD MOVED OFF? APT . AREA. East on 80. near exit 42 for Oct. Contact me NOW For a limited time only. MS. LAURA J
Need M1am1I1X Call J1m at 1654 FULL KITCHEN. BATHRM PARKING. break. Will share driving. usual Call Chris VOLUPTUOUS LITTLE SISTER has Chuck 288-0725 Kerry 8021 (410 Badin) McKNIGHT-85. will be tak1ng "Welcome SAFE 232-3477 284-5425 
NEED 1 MIAMI GA-Iinle bro·s 1st never seen an N.D. game! Her LAST and D.C Club!! Sign-ups tor the October Back" phone calls at 7570 The GOODGE game!CALLCHIP3137 ONLY chance IS PENN ST She and her Break Bus will be Sunday. October 10th In HAS ARRIVED Stormy Hooligan has no­entourage need 2 GAs and 3 stud. tix LaFortune Ballroom from 7-9 p m. $75.00 thing to do wrth thiS NEED MIAMI GA TIXSI PETE 232-1466 We re talk1ng BIG $$here!! Joe 1 652 round-trip must be pa1d 1n advance East Coast Tailgater on Greenfield before the For Sale: 8 Miam1 GAs. Call Dave 3673. will trade two miami ga-s tor two anzona M1ami game!! Be there! The Jun10r Class presents a ga-s1218 STRANGERS OF THE NIGHT party I Need 2 Student tickets for the Miami All the way from the JERSEY SHORE! .t Gulaappa'8 Friday, Oct. at p.m.
RIDE NEEDED TO THE NEW YORK game :Call Jeff at 6710. I only need one Hi Mom,Dad,Bros.&Sisters 
WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM, $2995 
M I A M !ticket I hope your tripwasn't"AGONY $4 guy., $3 glrla 64K Microcomputer. letter quality printer. 
CITY FOR OCTOBER BREAK----WILL NEED MANY G.A. ·s lor Miam1, call Tim at $$$$$$$$$$$$ HAPPYBIRTHDAYtotheNo. 1 MOM! Coma d1'811Md-$1 oft .t lila door wtthLEAVE WHENEVER AND WILL SHARE word process1ng software. CP/M, Bas1c. 
289-7640 please call mike 1779 Your loving son. ANDRE co81uma Call277-7720.
THE USUAL. CALL CHRIS AT x35100R 
x8573ANYTIME NEED 4 GAs FOR MIAMI CALL DAVE FOR SALE:2 MIAMI GAs call John 8431 
277-0955RIDE NEEDED TO WASHINGTON DC-­
USED BOOKS Bought. Sold, Searched. FOR OCTOBER BREAK CALL BREN­
East coast parents need Penn St GA·s if 
ERASMUS BOOKS. lues-Sun, 12-6. DAN ANYTIME--WILL SHARE THE 
NEED 1 MIAMI GA you can help call Donna at 5472 SMC
1027 E. Wayne. One Block South of USUAL---7997 
WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR P.S. I also need Arizona stud tix, Help! 
Eddy-Jefferson IntersectiOn 
CALL MIKE 1770 
Need 1 Student or GA tiX. (smc)51 15. professiOnal couple's children from 
WANTED: Responsible person to pick up 
Need 2 GAs or Student fix for Miami 
game. Call John 8362. Need one STUD or GA 11cket to Miam1 px. 10 hrs/wl<; 5/hr & gas; car reqUired. $3495 or best offer. Call 233-5727. 
school 3 days/week. superv1se play: ap­73 Triumph TR6, excellent condition. 
game. Call Cathy at 2843 234-4620 even1ngs. 
Need 1·4 GA's lor M1ami game. Wltrade 
student tic and/or cash. Call Ang1e 1284. NEED 4-6 NAVY GA'S! CALL STEVE NEED AIDE TO uTrLE ROCK OR 30 pet DISCOUNT on FUJI FILMS for 239-5713 MEMPHIS for October Break. Can leave color slides. Francois 287 2057 NEED 4 ARIZONA & 6 PENN ST GAS. as early as Wed. night. Will share dnvmg, CALL WOZ:Z AT 1850. HEY I have this press1ng need tor one usual. Call Greg 234-2456 2 MIAMI G.A.s Best oiler by Friday at measly M1ami student ticket. You can't 
5:00. Call Anne D. x8472 pass up this chance at 1nstant riches!! call 
HEY all you crazy wild people out there !! 
Need JUST ONE Stud MIAMI TIK Call mark at 3243 today and take all his money 
We need Tickets and will pay you all the 
Steve867G USED 3 PIECE UVIVG ROOM SET !!!
money we have for 2 Penn St GA's and 2 
250.00-233-2821 
Miami GA's. Make two really sweet girls RIDE NEEDED T" ROCHESTER. NY an offer, you won't be sorry! call very rich 
FIRST CLASS U.A. TICKET FOR SALE. FOR FALL BRf'IK WILL SHARE FOR SALE: 4 MIAMI GA-2 ON THE 30 VALID NOV.20-DEC 15. YOU CAN FLY
cindy or much well to do katie at 2948 USUAL WANDA'·· ; CALL ART, 2187 TO ANYWHERE UNITED FLIES. $300
NOYI 
CALL LEON 6740 



-~--------------~ 
~jJ()f4tS~J=~~~~i=E3~=S================================F=ri=da=y=,o=c~to=b=e=rs=,=l=98=2===pa=g=e==ls 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Saint Mary's basketball teamwill hold tryouts 
beginning Monday night, Oct. 11, from 6 to 8 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. Try-outs will continue Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of next week, and will also be held next Saturday morning from 9 to 11. For more information, call Tim Dillon at 284-5548. ­
The Observer 

Stepan Center courtsare now available to halls and groups. Reservations for the Nov. 1 to April 8 period must be made by Friday, Oct. 15. Reservation forms are available at the Student Activities Office in the LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
Franklin College is today's opponent for the Notre Dame field hockey team. The game begins at 4 p.m. on Alumni Field. 
-The Observer. 

Maul Miami pep rally will be held tonight at 7 at Stepan Center. -The Observer 
Off-Campus Golf Tournament tees off at 1 
p.m. this Sunday. There is a S5 entry fee. Refreshments will follow the event. Any interested should contact Gregg Gross at 287-7306 or Mark Murphy at 234-5414. -The Observer 
Irish baseball team plays host to Bradley Univesity for three weekend games at jake Kline Field. The two teams play a single game tomorrrow at 9:30am. Sunday's doubleheader begins at 1 p.m. -Th~ Observer 

Gymnastics Club will hold an exhibition and candy sale tomorrow on the South Quad. All members are invited to par­ticipate in the activities. -The Observer 
Rich Hunter's Irish soccer team takes its 6-3-1 record into weekend action. Notre Dame plays host to Western Michigan tonight at 8 on Cartier Field. Alumni Field will be the site of Sunday's 2 p.m. contest versus Louisville. -The Observer 
t*******t 
~  ~  
~  Got a beef?  ~  
~  Tel/us!  ~  
~  ~  
~  Send a letter  ~  
~.  tothe  iC ~  
~  Sport's Editor  ~  
iC ~  P.O.BoxQ  ~iC  

t*******: 



WORTH OF BRAND NEW STEREO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT WILL BE SOLD AT PUBLIC AUCTION WITH BIDS STARTING AT A FRACTION OF RETAIL VALUE! 
ss2'•'''"{1B5'ds .JVC 
s5g81fl'let KE~~
HITACHI OPTONICA PIONEER
Garrard 

KENWOOD Technics 
~nd mor•l
.JVC FISHER 
•nrJ mor~:
Values to $399.95 


CENTURY CENTER 
Convention Hall A, 120 S. St. Joseph 
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
Some items adv. may not be available due to prior sale. 
The Observer Friday, October 8, 1982 page 19 
Big show-dow-ns on tap Saturday 


By HERSCHEL NISSESSON 
The AssociatedPress 
They will go at it again Saturday, these two great college football coaches. 
Paul "Bear" Bryant, the country bumpkin from the Arkansas bottom· land who moved east and settled down in Tuscaloosa, Ala., in 1958 and has become a legend as the win· ningest coach of all time with 319 scalps on his belt, 228 of them at Alabama. 
And Joe Paterno, the city slicker 
from the streets of Brooklyn who 
went west and found a home in State 
College, Pa., where he was an assis· 
tant under Rip Engle for 16years and 
is in his 17th campaign as Penn 
State's head coach with a winning 
percentage of .823 (155·33·1), 
which makes him the leader among 
active coaches with at least 10 years' 
experience. 
Bryant is 319·81·1 7 overall, but 
his Alabama log of 228-42·9 figures 
out to .833, so he is a tad ahead of 
Paterno if you throw out the Bear's 
stops at Maryland, Kentucky and 
Texas A&M. And the reason Bryant 
has that one-point lead is a 3·0 
record against Paterno, Alabama 
having beaten Penn State in the 
1975 and 1979 Sugar Bowls, plus a 
31-16 triumph a year ago that began a long series between two of the sport's glamour schools. 
Bryant raised a few eyebrows ear­lier in the week when he called Penn State "probably the greatest teaam in the country and maybe the greatest team of all time." The Bear, of course, has been awed by every op­ponent he's ever faced. 
"That's what I said about Nebraska two weeks ago," Paterno said when he heard ofBryant's remarks. "Paul's been around the block a few times. Sometimes you'll make some state­ments that are out of the ballpark to dramatize a big game." 
And this game at Birmingham's Legion Field is a big one. Both teams are 4-0, with Penn State ranked No. 3 and Alabama No. 4 in The Associated Press polL The line says Barna is a 4­point favorite. This corner says ... Penn State 28-27. 
No. 17 Miami at No. 10 Notre 
Dame (favored by 7): a 37-15 win­
dup loss to Miami saddled the Irish 
with a losing record last year. Time 
for revenge ... Notre Dame 17-14. 
No. 19 Boston College at No. 16 
West Virginia, the Mountaineers lost 
a heartbreaker to Pitt last week, 
while B.C. sputtered past Temple ... 
Boston College 21-17. 
California at No. 1 Washington Cal is one of the nation's surprise teams, but the Huskies are due for a good outing ... Washington 24-14. 
Mississippi at No. 5 Georgia Herschel is healthy and on the loose again ... Georgia 28-14. 
No. 6 Southern Methodist at Baylor: Eric Dickerson and Craig James have been on the loose all season ... SMU 24-10. 
No. 7 Nebraska at Colorado: the 
Cornhuskers have bounced back 
nicely from that tough loss to Penn 
State ... Nebraska 42-7. 
Arizona at No. 8 UCLA : The 
Bruins keep rolling along, averaging 
almost 40 points a game ... UCLA 31­
14. 
Texas Tech at No.9 Arkansas: the 
Razorbacks are coming off a near­
perfect rout ofTCU ... Arkansas 28-7. 
Stanford at No. 11 Arizona State: an irresistible force (Stanford'sJohn Elway vs. an immovable object (Arizona State's defense) Upset Spe­cial ofthe Week ... Stanford 27-20. 
No. 12 North Carolina at Wake 
Forest: Carolina's fleet of runners 
overshadows Wake gunner Gary 
Schofield ... North Carolina 35-14. 
Oklahoma vs. No. 13 Texas at Dal­
las: no more War of the Wishbones. 
Texas dropped it a few years ago and 
the Sooners went to the 'I' last 
weekend ... Texas 24-17. 
. . . Jim 

continuedfrom page 21 
"What were Custer's last words?" -("My God! I thought they said the 'Cleveland' Indians.") 
"We have met the enemy.and they are ours." -(The San Diego Char· ger's offense said this in comment­ing on the San Diego Charger's defense after they had lost another 4S-41 game, even though it is popularly supposed to have been said by Commordore Perry in the Battle of Lake Erie in the War of 1812.) 
"Go west young man." -(A tribute to New York editor Horace Greeley, it was actually a suggestion of Montreal Allouette fans and management to Vince Ferragamo at the finish of the 1981 CFL season.) 
"If I advance, tollow me, if I retreat, kill me." -(This was originally said by some general or maybe by crazy Joe Gallo or Dutch Schultz, and they took him at his word, but it is part ofthe contract of the Notre Dame football coach, and was first signed by Dan Devine.) 
"General Doubleday don't let baseball die!" -(This rather fanci­ful account ofAbraham Lincoln's last words was pron~ulgated by the broadcaster Bill ~tern when he found out that Lincoln died in the company of his generals, but some savant has decided that what we he really said, ifanything, was "Don't let me die!") 
"What hath God wraught?" ­(People wrongly think that this was said by Alexander Graham Bell when he invented the telephone or Samual Morse the telegraph, but it actually was said by Tom Watson when he watched that shot go in the hole at the 17th green of the US Open. History does not record what Nicklaus said at that precise moment but it probably translated the same.) 
We all know the phrase "There 
stands Jackson like a stone wall!" 
was supposed to have been uttered 
by a Confederate soldier about his 
general at Bull Run, but it was actual­
ly what the pitcher said in last year's 
World Series when Davey Lopes' 
popup fell offReggieJackson's chest, 
and we know that "Winning isn't 
everything, it's the only thing" was 
not invented by Vince Lombardi or 
Pop Warner but by some Christian 
who had been pushed out into the 
Roman Colosseum against the lion 
inA.D. 100. 
Now, you're all set for the first His­

f1NNI\JER~f1RY ~f1LE 
Our Biggest Sale of the Season 
ANNIVERSARY SALE STARTS TODAY 
CHARGE IT TODAY AT AYRES! 
14.99 
Best Buy woven and flannel 
ShirtS fOr young men. Poly/cotton 
wovens and 100% flannel shirts at great savings! 
Assorted styles and colors in sizes S-M-L-Xl. 
24.99 
Best Buy flannel and corduroy 
PantS. Choose from our tri-blend flannel and cotton/poly corduroy pants. Both in waist sizes 28-36 in a good selection of fall colors. 
19.99 
Best BuyCotler corduroy pants. Two styles: 
Cargo style with elastic back waist or a belted safari 
style. Lots of colors in waist sizes 28-38. 
21.99 
Special Purchase. Sedgefield <R> Do-Nothing <TM> denim jeans. 
Get the jeans with the physical fit (R) at a terrific price! Prewashed 100% cotton denim in waist sizes 28-38. Varsity Shop, Scottsdale Mall and University Park. 
15.99 
Reg. 20.00. Junior Cheeno's
blouses Choose from an assortment of pretty 
• stripes in a fern in in e ruffle neck style. 
SizesS-13. 

14.99 
Reg. 19.00. Junior Cheeno's
WOrkpantS .Popular poly/cotton basic workpant 
• mall the colors you need for fall. Waist sizes 24-31. Junior World, Scottsdale Mall and 


tory exam. Shop Ayres Scottsdale Mall and University Park today, 10:00 to 9:00. University Park. 
The Observer Friday, October 8, 1982 -page 20 
Record sixth helps 
Forsch pitches Cards to w-in 

ST. LOUIS (AP) -Veteran Bob Forsch pitched a three-hitter and the St. Louis Cardinals staged a record­breaking rally that produced a 7-0 victory over the Atlanta Braves in last night's opening game of their best-of-five National League Cham­pionship Series. 
Forsch, who is the senior member of this Cardinal club, was brilliant, mowing the Braves down. striking out six while walking none, and protecting an early one-run lead built on the hlazing speed of rookie Willie Mc()ee. The pitcher, who retired the last I I batters in a row. also contributed a sacrifice fly in a five-run St. louis rally in the sixth 
that wrapped up the victory, and scored in the dghth inning after his second single of the game. 
Atlanta will try to even the series Friday night with 4:3 year-old knuck­leballer Phil Niekro coming back af­ter pitching 4 1-3 innings in the rained-out opener ofthe series Wed­nesday. The Cardinals will start rookieJohn Stuper. 
McGee got the Cards started, opening the third inning with a shot past tirst ba.o;eman Chris Chambliss and into the right field corner. McGee turned on his afterhurners when he saw the ball rattling into the corner. 
What the youngster did not see was right fielder Claudell Washing­ton slip cha.<;ing the hit and Coach Chuck Hiller waving frantically to go for the inside-the-park homer. In­stead, he pulled up at third and when he realized what had happened, it was too late to change his mind. 

ll was a rookie mistake, but it didn't hurt because Ozzie Smith followed with a sacrifice fly that brought McGee streaking home with the game's first run. 
The score by the Cardinals, who had I3 hits, came a half-inning after the Braves had their best shot at Forseh. 
With one out in the Atlanta third, Bruce Benedict reached on an error by third baseman Ken Oberkfell. But pitcher Pascual Perez was unable to execute the sacrifice and struck out bunting foul on the final strike. It wa.~ a costly failure hecause Wash­ington followed with Atlanta's first hit of 1he game. Benedict advanced 
Good friends stand up for you
when you need tliem. 
1 
Phone calls got you nowhere, but this should get her attention. A missi<mrequiring split-second timing, pe1iect planning and most importmtly, some surefooted, st:md-up guys. 
When you come do-wn to earth, spring for something special. . 
'!(might, let it be Liiwenbrau. 

to third. hut wa.~ stranded when Rafael Ramirez forced Washington at second. 
Armed with the lead, Forsch. a 15­gamt; winner during the regular season, took control. He got a hreak in the sixth when Washington opened with his second hit of the gamt' hut then was om stealing. retired wht'n he ~lid short ofsecond ha.~e and never reached the hag. 
In the hottom of the sixth. the Car­dinals knocked out Perez and gave Forsch some insurance, sending I I hatters to the plate in an explosive display that had the capacity crowd of 53,008 at Busch Stadium roaring and left the Braves shaken. 
Lonnie Smith started the rally with an infield hit and singles by Keith Hernandez and (;eorge Hendrick made it 2-0. Steve Bedrosian relieved Perez and walked Porter on four pitches. loading the ba.5es. Then McGee and Ozzie Smith followed with RBI singles and Forsch·~ sacrifice tly made it S-0. After Tommy Herr struck out. Oberkfell hit a roller to first. But Bedrosian failed to cover and the ball went a.o; an infield single. scoring another run. 
Donnie Moore relieved Bedrosian and hit Lonnie Smith with a pitch hefore retiring Hernandez on a fly ball to end the inning. 
The six hits and 1 I batters in one inning set NLCS records and put the game away for St. Louis. 
Braves Manager Joe Torre said he had toyed with starting Niekro yes­terday and in view ofwhat happened to his club, it might not have been a had idea. 

BASEBALL 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Tuesday's Game California 8, Milwaukee 3 

Wednesday's Game California 4, Milwaukee 2, Califor­nia leads senes 2-0. 
Friday's Game California (Zahn 18-8) at Mil­waukee (Sutton 4-1 ). 3:17 p.m. EDT 
Saturday's Game 

California at Milwaukee. if neces­
sary 

Sunday's Game California at Milwaukee, if neces­sary 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Wednesdays Game Atlanta at St. Louis, rained out after 4 innings 
Thursday's Game St. Louis 7, Atlanta 0, St. Louis leads series 1-0. 
Friday's Game Atlanta (Niekro 17-4) at St. Louis (Stuper 9-7), 8:25p.m. EDT 
Saturday's Game St. Louis at Atlanta, (n) 

Sunday's Game St. Louis at Atlanta, (n). if neces­sary 
Monday's Game 


St. Louis at Atlanta, if necessary 

Lowenbriiu.Here's to good friends. . 
• · ©1982 Beer Brewed by Miller Brewrng Co .. Milwaukee. Wrs. _""""_""",............,..,... 
The Observer 
History 101
And who was the author 
With school back in session across the country, kids are once again turning to the history books (albeit, probably not voluntarily) for a view of what has made our nation great. They're studying about presidents, wars, treaties and other famous events, both wonderful 
and tragic. 
But there's one element that's woefully lacking in most of our history books -the important role of Sports! 
As I once wrote, Sports is America, too, as American as election returns, corn-on-the-cob and the Battle of Antietam. As I said, America is the Teapot Dome and Watergate, but it's also the Black Sox. It's Tilden at the net, Havlicek at the baseline, Nicklaus with a four-footer he can make for the Open. It's Man 0' War in the stretch, Gretsky with the puck. It's the wall at Fenway, the stretch at Churchill Downs, the brickyard at Indy, Henry Aaron with a 2-0 count, Pete Rose with the pitcher in a hole, and Namath with a guy open. 
But I would like to repeat, today is a spate of famous quotes of history and tell you who really said them. Here are some ofmy favorites. 
"Everyman should have the right to cudgel his own jackass." -(Everyone thinks this was said by the editor of the Louisville Courier-journal about the governor of Kentucky he just criticized. Actually, it was said by George Steinbrenner as he fired his fifth manager in four years and cussed out his team in the clubhouse.) 
"I have not yet begun to fight." -(Most people say that this was said byJohn PaulJones when the comman­der ofthe British frigate called upon him to surrender in 1779, but it was actually said by Roberto Duran in the 

second Leonard fight in 1980.) 
.. . NFL 

continuedfrom page 24 
of fruitless negotiations on those issues that broke offon Saturday. 
Garvey meanwhile, discounted the possibility ofthe union agreeing to federal mediation. 
Despite the presence of a federal mediator in 1974, the union's con­tract dispute with the league was not resolved until 1977 and then, only after both sides agreed to settle the dispute themselves. 
Last week, Garvey said he opposed private mediation because the two sides were too far apart and it would take a mediator too long to familiarize himself with the per­sonalities and the issues. 
However, he changed his position 
this week, saying: "we need bargain­
ing. We need people at the table 
with an open mind." 
Garvey also reiterated the union's 
demand that the owners come to the 
bargaining table, but there seemed 
little likelihood ofthat. 
Yesterday afternoon, NFL attor­neys asked the u.:-: Court ofAppeals here to overturn :he ruling of a lower court Wedesday which said all suits to bar players from union­sponsored all-star games must be pursued in U.S. District Court in Washington. 
By restricting the legal actions to Washington, the NFL said, the lower court is compelling the teams to file suits in a court that lacks jurisdiction over claims involving the players' contracts. 
While U.S. District Judge John Garrett Penn upheld the players' contention that further legal actions be brought in Washington, he refused to clear the way for the players to particate in the all-star games. 
Teams have filed lawsuits in the state courts of New York, Missouri, Texas, Pennsylvania and Florida to stop players residing in those states from playing in the union-sposored games. Under Penn's order those suits could not be pursued. 
The league asked that the ap­pellate court stay Penn's ruling by Monday, seven days before the first of a series of 20 union-sponsored ~ames is scheduled to be played. 

J'unMurroy 
H t f J" M 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiieiiisiiiiiiioiiiiiiiiiiliiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUiiiiiiifiiifaiiiiiiiy 
"Fifty-Four Forty or fight!" -(A lot of people think 
this was the slogan ofthe war party which wanted to go 
to war with England over the territory of Oregon in 
1847, but the fact ofthe matter is it represents the com­
promise position ofthe NFL players who are demanding 
55 percent ofthe gross receipts from the game, but may 
drop their demands .60 percent given the nature ofthe 
economy today.) 
"Laws are dumb in the midst of arms." -(Cicero is 
supposed to have said this but AI Davis said it more 
recently in the corridors of the Oakland City Council.) 
"Merchants have no country. The mere spot they 
stand on does not constitute so strong an attachment as 
that from which they may draw their gains." ­
(Bartlett's thinks this quotation was from Thomas Jef­
ferson but it is actually the closing arguments of Pete 
Roselle's case against AI Davis in the moving of the 
Raiders.} 

"I do not choose to run." -(Popularly believed to 
have been said by Calvin Coolidge on the eve of the 
1928 election, it was actually said by Jimmy Carter on 
the eve ofthe 1980 Olympics.) 
SeeJIM, page 19 
111 

Newjersey Devils' captain Don Lever scored thefirst goal ever in the Byrne Meadowlands Arena in East Rutherford, Nj. during NHL action against thePittsburgh Penguins Tuesday night. ( APPhoto). 

Don't forget to stock up on ICE for this weekend's festivities. Sib. and 181bs. bags of ICE available at the Deli. 
FOR BREAKFAST, THE HUDDLE'S EGG, BACON AND CHEESE SANDWICH 
ABSOLUTELY NO ONE 
packs a lunch like us!!! 
The Deli is located, main floor, La Fortune Building, 
at the Huddle. 

You1r box includes choice of turkey or ham sandwich on a ses~ame seed bun, sweet grapes, our favorite cheese, 
an::l two of Grama's Big Peanut Butter cookies. With choice of a lOoz milk or 16 oz soft-drink. 
All For Only $2.69 
Only 99¢ 
LETTUCE SERVE YOU 

SUNNYSIDE BEVERAGES 
Beer and Soft Drinks 
1340 South Bend Ave. across street from campus 
234-1114 FREE DELIVERY 
good Sat. 10/9/82 8:00am-10:30am 
FREE POSTERS 
20 different brands of keg beer available including imports 
Draft Trucks Tapping Equipment Keg Coolers Cups and Ice Tubs 

r 
-~------­
The Observer 
Friday, October 8, 1982 -page 22 



Tommy john looks down at umpire Bill Kunkel after knocking him over while making a play at first base on Tuesday. See AL Championship Series story at right. ( AP Photo). 
'IIUiidc I>.VHIC ~'"'11\T 'lliiJ<n 
C{)IWHIJNIIC!lllii{)N l 
,..., ...... _..._(;llrlf!lll~IC ~c, a lfll?III[)A\~ lfiiiL~\ ~IEil?ll~~ 
Chloe In the Afternoon 119721 Enc Rohmer France color In French w<lh Engi<Sh subt<tles In the 1as1 ot t11s ser<es of moral tales Rohmer casts Bernard Verley as Freder<c an <ntrospecl<ve Par<s commuter whose moral dilemma 1S posed 1n terms of Chloe-a Par.s1an bohem<an-or Helene iFranco<se 
Verley) hiS suburban W11€ Admission Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum $ 2. o o 
"' 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
) 
~ ~ ~ 
i 
i 
i 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
) ) ) ) 
i 
~ 
) 
~ 
\ 
~ ~ 
) ) 
~ 
) ) 
~ 
\ 
i 
~ ~ 
\ 
~ ~ 
i 
) 
~ 
i 
~ 
, 
lr~u ~ 111l3Jtilr--,__, 
By popular demand the movie that 
"will leave you feeling 10 feet tall" 
is now playing at theatres everywhere. 
Rex Reed, syndicated columnist 
Angels pitchingholds Mil-waukee 
MILWAUKEE (AP) -Slugger Reggie Jackson says it's time to stop using the term "suspect" to describe California's pitching staff. 
In what had been billed as a show­down of two of the most explosive lineups in baseball, the Angels have made it a mismatch so far, taking a 2-0 lead over the Milwaukee Brewers in the best-of-five American League championship series. 
The Brewers, who led the major leagues in home runs, runs, runs batted in and total bases during the regular season, have been held to 12 hits and a .182 batting average by Angel veterans Tommy John and Bruce Kison. 
Geoff Zahn, 18-8 during the regular season, is to pitch for the An­gels against Milwaukee's Don Sut­ton, 4-1, in the third game here 


OFFICER 
ANDA 
GENTLEltfAN 
PARAMOUNT PICTURES PRESENTS A LORIMAR-MARTIN ELFAND PRODUCTION A TAYLOR HACKFORD FILM RICHARD GERE ·DEBRAWINGER AN OFFICER AND A GENTLEMAN Also starring DAVID KEITH and LOUIS GOSSETT, JR. as 'Foley· 
Original Music by JACK NITZSCHE · Written by DOUGLAS DAY STEWART Produced by MARTIN ELFAND· Directed by TAYLOR HACKFORDft RESTRICTED ~ A PARAMOUNT PICTURE ; :
R 
COPyllgMt ' MCMLXXXII by Paramount P•clure~ Coroorat•on All Roqnt~ ~s.I!NeO • // \~ •
UNDER t7 REQUIRES ACCOMPANYING • ,_. :...... • 
PARENT OR ADULT GUARDIAN ·-· 
CHECK LOCAL NEWSPAPERS FOR THEATRE LISTINGS. 
today. 
Since intraleague playoffs began in 1969, no team has won a cham­pionship series after having lost the first two games. 
Games four and five, if needed, would be played here tomorrow and Sunday. 
"I think you should remember that the guys on the mound get paid, too," said Jackson, who homered in the AngelS: 4-2 victory in Anaheim on Tuesday night. "This series isn't over yet, but we shouldn't be talking about being surprised by our pitch­ing." 
John neutralized Milwaukee's power with his sinker pitches, for­cing Brewer batters to pound the ball ino the ground. Kison's three­quarter sidearm delivery had much the same effect. Kison held the third through sixth hitters in the Brewer lineup -Cecil Cooper, Ted Sim­mons, Ben Oglivie and Gorman Thomas -hitless in I 5 at bats. 
"Whenever you start tht: playoffs in your home city it's important to take the first two games," Angels' catcher Bob Boone said. "It doesn't surprise me that we were able to do that. 
"I knew ifour pitchers pitched the way they were capable, they could stop them or at least slow them down." 
"I didn't expect this club to come in here and score just five runs in 
two games," said Milwaukee third baseman Paul Molitor, whose inside­
fri 



Sat 9:00 am-··Bloody Mary Party'' 
II:00 am-..Pre-game Warm-ups.. 
NOON-Draft Beer Sausage Sandwich SI.OO 
1:30 NOTRE DAME vs MIAMI 
5:00-Outside Bar-B-Q (in parking lot) 
9:00 VICTORY CELEBRAliON 
GO IRISH! BEAT HURRICANES! 
SENIORS . 
May 1983 is just months away, what next? 
CONSIDER an alternative 

THE HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
A 1-2 year postgraduate experience stressing: service, simple living, and Christian community. HCA is in several American cities and Chile 
Applicatiors row available 
Deadlire for Chile application November 4, 1982 
For more irlormationcontact: Mary Am Roemer, Volunteer Services, laForture Center, 239-5293. 
the-park homer produced the Brewers' only runs Tuesday. 
"This club has too much offensive potential for that, but a couple of pitchers have held us down," he said. "The last thing I expected was to have two complete games thrown at us. 
The Brewers hope to get an early lead and force the Angels to their bullpen, which is even more suspect than their starting rotation. 
((This series isn't over yet, but we shouldn't be talking about being surprised by ourpitching." 
The Brewers and Angels were 6-6 against each other during the regular season, with each team win­ning three times in its home park. 
Pete Vuckovich, the losing pitcher Wednesday night, recalled that the Brewers lost the first two games of last year's East Division miniseries to the New York Yankees, then won two games in New York before the Yanks won the clinching fifth game. 
"We bounced back last year, al­though we lost the fifth game, and we can bounce back this year, too," he said. "We're playing a great club and we're a great club, too. If anybody can do it, we can." 
CORBY'S 
"FOOTBALL WEEKEND" 
HAPPY HOUR 3-7 
DRAFTS 21$1.00 

t 
J------------~----------~--------------~--~--------~.
. 
~IheO~t======================================= 
Weekend 
Friday, October 8, 1982-page 23 
Doonesbury 
C1i,MY(j(}[l.. 
E:XOJSCME:,

fT'SHIM.' 
SON.YOU60T 

cJ A MINtff/3 7 

Simon 
f_ HL MY NAME IS 
~ :sATf\N. 1'1'\ lOOK­. \Nu fOR ~ FEW \(,COD t'\£N 10 f(E6\· i5TER foR THI~ WAf< 

I 'l'M GOIN(, 10 Tfii((W_ 
) ':x:l... · Go:>~ YOO LOOK LIKE 
A"E>t>lllKf. 
( 

~~V( ~WOTHER S~£w? NO'{\! IN~ LIKE A FOOT­11.~LL WEEKEND A1' t-~om: DA.t1E . 
I 

·)o WW.T IF W[ 'DON'"( ({E'f fl(l(ffS fo \HE ~AHE. 

The Daily Crossword 
13
12 

©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 
10/8/82

All Rights Reserved 
Garry Trudeau 
Campus 
•12:30 
p.m. -Government Dept. Colloquium, "Human Rights, The Church in Central America and Reagan: The Emerging Conflict," Prof Ronald Libby, Room 1200 Memorial Library 

•3:15 
p.m.-Workshop, "Technical Change, In­novation and Bureaucracy," Prof Leonard Rap­ping, 3 31 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by Economic Department 

•3:30 
p.m. Philosophy Colloquium, "Scientific Realism," Prof. Rom Harre, Oxford Uni­versity, 122 Hayes Healy 

•4 
p.m.-Field Hockey, NO Women vs. Franklin College, Alumni Field 

•5 
p.m. -Senior Oktoberfest Picnic, Bier and 




Brats, Saint Mary's Clubhouse, Sponsored by Saint Mary's Senior Class 
•5:15 
p.m. -Mass and Supper, Bulla Shed, Sponsored by Campus Ministry, 

•7 
p.m. -Pep Rally, Stepan Center 

•7,9:15, 
and II :30 p.m. -Film, "From Russia with Love," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Film Club, S 1.00 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "Chloe in the Afternoon," Annenberg Auditorium, S2.00 

•s 
p.m. -ND SMC Theatre Production, "The Taming of the Shrew," O'Laughlin Auditorium, $2.50 for Students 

•s
p.m. -Soccer, Notre Dame vs. Western Michi­gan, Cartier Field 

•10 
p.m. -Nazz, Dan Keosal and Friends, Nazz 


Photius 
T.V. Tonight 

ACROSS 32 Footnote 1 Hairdo abbr. 5 Leads off 33 Animal 
10 Ready money nature 14 Bedecked in man 15 Western 34 Iter's 
show relative 16 Spanish 36 How to use cooking pot mint sauce? 17 Invite 40 Comp. pt. 
everybody 41 Stood out 20 Make use of 42 Lay off 21 Jury 43 Arm of the 
members sea 
22 Ending with 45 Cheap Israel and whiskey Canaan 47 Makes a 
23 Arabian choice chieftain 48 Nuclear 25 Chicken letters and egg 49 Swagger 29 Like Punch 52 Constrict 
Thursday's Solution 

The Irish Gardens 
your Screw your Roommate Headquarter 
Stay on campus and save$$$ by letting us take care of your Dower needs 
in the basement of LaFortune 
Hours: 12:30-5:30 
lfD.SMC available 
Dial M-U-M.S (6867) to place an order 

6p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8p.m.

57 Snub from 27 Prefers the chef? 28 American 60 Roguish fabulist 
9p.m.

61 Bay window 29 Coin 62 Miss Turner 30 Escape by 63 Roughly trickery 
10p.m.

wrought 31 Vaguely 64 -large 33 Unmannerly (generally) persons 
65 Card game 35 Busy as­37 Can manage 
10:30p.m. 

DOWN 38 Pronoun 1 Dull pain 39 Movable 2 Source cover 
of oil 44 Fencing 
llp.m. 
11:30p.m.

3 Great expression 
review 45 N<!rrated 4 Czech river again 5 Satellite 46 Colorof 
trips raw silk 
Brl• an 

6 Steadiness 48 Pale-faced 7 Noseout 49 Have the 
8 Pen tip lead 9 The sun 50 Across, 10 Crouches for short in fear 51 Date stamp 11 Century abbr. plant 52 Global 12 Pronounce area 
poorly 53 Ailments 13 Homburgs 54 Bismarck's 18 Vinegary state: abbr. 19 Narcotic 55 Actress 23 Put in high Rowlands 
spirits 56 Quod­24 Engage, faciendum 
as gears 58 Toss under· 25 Locale handed 26 Lower in 59 Prohlbi· 
estimation tlonist 

16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 MacNeil/Lehrer Report 
16 M*A*S*H 
22 Family Feud 
28 Tic Tac Dough 
34 Straight Talk 
16 The Powers of Matthew Star 
22 Dukes of Hazzard 
28 Baseball Championship Series 
34 Washington Week in Review 
34 Wall Street Week 
16 Knight Rider 
22 Dallas 
34 Business Perspective 
16 Remington Steele 
22 Falcon Crest 
34 Religion and Social Issues 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The Dick Cavett Show 16 Tonight Show 22 C. B.S. Late Movie 28 ABC News Nightline 
34 Captioned ABC News 
28 Fridays 
16 Late Night With David Letterman 
The saga of a 6 month old domer. 

r-· ~ 
' 
S_J2orts 
Friday, October 8, 1982-page 24 
Volleyball captains lead Irish into new era 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 

Sports Writer 
Last year marked the beginning of a new era -a winning era -for the Notre Dame women's volleyball team. It was the first year that scholarships were awarded for vol­leyball, making it the second women's sport at Notre Dame to grant scholarships. The women who were given these scholarships, soph­omores Josie Maternowski (South Bend, IN) and Mary )o Hensler (Cincinnati), this year's co-captains, have begun a program that should 
eventually  attain  national  
prominence.  
"Josie and Mary )o are  the two  

primary setters," says their coach, Sandy Vanslager. "They run the of­fense and make things quick. 
"They were voted co-captains by the team. (Assistant Coach) Dan An­derson and I thought it was a good decision. A co-captain needs to be out on the court all the time and must prevent animosity between the players." 
Ifthose are the requirements for a good co-captain, then the team made a very wise choice. In the games through last weekend, Mater­nowski and Hensler were the only players to play every minute this year. 
As co-captains, it is imperative that the two of them work together, sharing the responsibilities of their pos1tton. Their experience has allowed them to do this. 
"When there are flagrant or ques­tionable calls by an official, only one person can question the referee," explains Vanslager. "We rotate the two of them so each can have a chance. 
"On the court, sometimes one might dominate if she is feeling bet­ter or if she feels more on top of things." 
Each player, however, has dif­ferent strengths and weaknesses. It is the combination oftheir strengths that makes them so effective. 
"Josie is more of an emotional player," says Anderson. "Her play is reflected more on the way things are going on the court. 
"But she reorganizes the team when they're down," adds Vanslager. "She'll talk to the in­dividuals and get them all into a huddle. 
"She likes to talk and reassure 
people. She tries to work on their 
heads. She has a very positive at­
titude and looks very comfortable 
on the court." 

Last Wednesday's match against 
St. Francis College may show how 
important Maternowski is to the 
team. The Irish had won the first two 
games, but she was injured in the 
third game and the team lost the last 
three games and the match. 
Maternowski's injury, torn-
ligaments in her ankle, may be 
enough to keep her out for the rest 
of the year. If it does, Hensler is 
going to have to make up for her ab­
sence. If Hensler she lives up to her 
coaches' descriptions, she should 
have no problem. 

"Mary )o is a very steady player," 
says Anderson. "She serves consis­
tently and keeps the offensive play 
going. She likes to run more of­
fensive plays thanjosie. 
"She also plays very smart ball. She 
is very aware ofwhat's happening on 
the otherside ofthe net. She puts the 
ball in the easiest place to put it and 
she always lets the other girls know 
where it's going. 

"She goes for scores on smart 
hits," says Vanslager. "She has a plan 
before every time she hits the ball. 
She also can adapt to the situation." 
Because they are the first scholar­
ship players on the team, the co­
captains are under pressure to 
perform well. "The pressure is 
whatever you put on yourself," ex­
plains Hensler. "Other people don't 
put it on me. It's all pressure that's 
internal. I have to prove that I 
deserve the scholarship." 
NetUJorks,tniss tnark 'With subs 
Somebody should explain the idea behind a carnival sideshow to the deep thinkers in the sports depart­ments ofCBS and NBC. 
It's really quite simple. All you do is grab five or six of the strangest-looking people you can find, and stick them under a tent. Then, hopefully, people will pay a quarter to come inside and gawk. There is absolutely no talent involved, simply the most hideous sights im­aginable. 
The people who operate the carnivals, however, have the common sense to realize that, while the average person may fork ~wer 25 cents to get a peak at the lady's mutton chops and full beard, he's not going to keep coming back time and again. 
Unfortunately, the big wise at NBC and CBS haven't quite figured that out yet. They're more accustomed to the principle behind the roller coaster, where people actually derive enjoyment from the experience, and are prone to ride over and over again. 
The roller coaster mentality works very well when the networks are offering NFL football on Sunday after­noons. The dizzy fans just keep watching, week after week after week. But, when in their strike-induced desperation, NBC and CBS start tryingto cram Canadian Football League and NCAA Division III games down the throats offootball-starved fans, the sideshow mentality is far more appropriate. 
The networks' persistence in beaming these third-rate attractions into our homes can lead to but one of two conclusions. Either the networks are dumb enough to believe that America's football junkies are actually going to watch the same freak show over and over again -or the networks are right, and America's football junkiesare dumb enough to watch the same freak show over and over again. 
Lord help us. 


Craig Ch al 
· V 
Believe it or not, there are parties even more ag­grieved by the players' strike than the fans. We've a)­ready mentioned the dilemma of the television networks, who promised their sponsors Bo Derek and are delivering Shelley Winters. Restaurant and bar owners, who generate much of their revenue by showing NFL games to thirsty fans, may be wipd out in the event of a prolonged strike. Gang members who make their living stealing hubcaps out of stadium parking lots are on the verge of returning to school. 
Forget about unemployment. inflation, crime, nuclear holocaust and Extra-Strength Tylenol. For the past two weekends, this country has faced its greatest peril since at least Jimmy Carter, maybe the Great Depression. 
And how are we reacting to it? Miserably. 
This country was born of adversity and the ex­emplary manner in which it responded to that adver­sity. History tells us it was George Halas, the founder of the NFL himself, who once said, "Necessity is the mot­her ofinvention." 
Men and women of Notre Dame, your nation calls. You're the ones who taunted DePaul's Skip Dillard with chants of "St. joe's, St. Joe's." You're the ones who jingled your keys when the UCLA travelling auto show stopped at the Athletic and Convocation Center last winter. The American people are dying for something 
But beyond whether t the general population is crazed to replace NFL football, and it's up to you. enough to believe that a dog called a cat is really a cat or If you can't do it for your country, at least do it for whether 24 guys running around on a football field is Don Ohlmeyer. Don't forget, the president of NBC really football, is a more fundamental issue. Sports has a wife and kids to feed. 
The Notre Dame women's volleyball team IU-PU-Ft. Wayne Invitational. See related story• at traz,els to Fort Wayne tomorrow to compete in the left. (Photo by Scott Bower). · 
Seeks NCAAbid 
Soccer team takes on WMU 

By SAM SHERRILL 
Sports Writer 

When the Notre Dame soccer team began its 1982 season ohe month ago, they knew they could count on one thing, at least -con­sistent goalkeeping. And they've cer­tainly gotten it from senior Gerard McCarthy. 
Though the team had some shaky moments early on, McCarthy believes that that period may be over. "I think we're starting to jell," he says. · 
"Before we were trying too much finesse. No":' we're getting back to our game and being more ag­gressive. Our defenders are only let­ting them get one shot at a time. I think we may have turned it around." 
A major factor in NO's success all year has been McCarthy's play in the nets. A starter in his sophomore year, he lost the job to john Milligan last season. As this season ap­proached, however, he was firmly entrenched as the No. I goalkeeper. 
"Last year, john just beat me out," McCarthy says. "He played great. We were good friends, too. As for my sophomore year, it was sort ofshaky. I felt I only had a tenuous grip on what was going on. But I'm more confident this year." 
McCarthy began in soccer as a ful­lback and didn't tend goal until his sophomore year of high school. "I was more into baseball," McCarthy says, and in fact he was captain ofthe baseball team his senior year. 
In terms of e-... strengths and weaknesses, one ha~ to mention McCarthy's booming punts as a major plus. "Hank Hofman (assistant coach) has worked with me a lot on the punts. 
"My greatest strength, though, the goal I set for myself, is staying in con­trol of the box. Any ball in there is mine. If I'm alert to the ball and in control, I can play well. 

"My biggest weakness would probably be when I dive for shots," he continues. "I have to improve on that." 
McCarthy's course load is no 
Owners, players stalled. 
' 
mediation offe-r rejected 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Efforts to end the National Football League players strike continued Thursday with no signs ofapparent progress. 

For the second time in as many days, the NFL Management Council rejected a proposal from the union for a private mediator to end the 17­day players' strike. It also said it saw no point to even resuming negotia­tions. 
Late yesterday morning, Ed Gar­

vey, executive director of the 
National Football League Players 
Union, released a list of nine private citizens the union would accept as mediators. It included former Supreme Court Justice Arthur Goldberg, the Rev. Theodore Hes­burgh, president ofNotre Dame Uni­versity, Archibald Cox, the former Watergate special prosecutor and three former secretaries oflabor. 
piece of cake, either. ''I'm in electri­cal engineering." he says. "Last year was probably the toughest year for me, but this year's not so bad be­cause I enjoy my classes more. 
"After graduation, I'm hoping go to graduate school. I'd like keep in soccer, maybe play in su mer leagues and coach kids." 
McCarthy agrees the victory over Dayton last Friday night was his best game ofthe season. "When Istopped that breakaway, that really built my confidence for the rest ofthe game," he says. "It's a lot easier playing against a good team. Against some the bad teftms, it's easy to fall back there. I like some action." 
McCarthy will certainly see a of action in the weeks ahead. University, No. 7 in the country, come in next week, and the face a tough Western Michigan tonight at Cartier Field. Not only the Irish get revenge for last 2-0 defeat, but they can give Rich Hunter his IOOth win at Dame. 

"Rich does things right all way," McCarthy said. "Most of success of the soccer team is due him. Hopefully, we can have a crowd for him Friday night." 
But Hunter is not the only tion tonight. The play of McCarthy should be worth the ofadmission. 

But jack Donlan, Garvey's coun­terpart with the Management Coun­cil, rejected the proposal two hours later, saying the owners would only accept federal mediation. Jim Miller, the council's spokesman, said Gar­vey's call for private mediating was "injecting another issue into the dispute. Who should 
becomes an issue." 

The management council also 
stuck to the position it enunciated 
Wednesday -that no further talks 
would be held until the union 
dropped its demand for a minimum 
wage scale. Miller said the council 
saw no point to meeting even to dis­
cuss non-economic issues, as Garvey 
had proposed. 

"We went down that road last 
week," Miller said of the three days 
See NFL, page 21 


~--------------~----~~----~~------.------.--~------~----~~h~.su~--~--·----------.------~--~1 
2

The Irish Extra -Miami ber 8, 1982 -p~u-p ~ 
Continued from page 1 A 
But ir's obviously the passing game that funds the scholarships at Miami. Four Hur­ricane receivers are in double figures in receptions, with senior wide receiver Rocky Belk leading the way with 19 catches for 296 yards. Belk, you may or may not remember, caught a 63-yard touchdown last year against the Irish. 
Senior halfback Mark Rush ( 18 catches for 221 yards). Neal ( 14 for 1O.f) and junior tight end Glenn Dennison ( 1 1 for. 1 14) lend sup­port to the receiving corps. 
"They'vt· got so manv talented people to catch the football." says Faust, "that it's probably a quarterback'~ dream to play in that sort of an offense. And now that Miami has won two games with Richt back there. they'll be that much more confident coming in here." 
As for defense. .\tiami is strong up the middle with linebacker Greg Brown ( 'i~ tackles, including an incredible 21 against Florida on Sep[t~mber ·I), junior linebackerJay Brophy ( 'iO tackle~) and senior tackle Tony Chickillo ( 30 tackles and three sacks). As a whole, the Hurricane defense surrenders about 300 yards a game, only 140 per game on the ground. 
"I think Miami's defense has improved every wt·ek out," Faust says. "They've only given up 13 points a game. So we've got to be prepared to move the football more consis· tently than we did in East Lansing." 
The Irish offense has been plagued with several problems, the biggest of which has poor field position. Opponents are ""'·~oino nearly 46 yards a punt, and the of­has had to start from inside its own 30· 
line on 27 of46 possessions. 
• • • Outlook 
But Faust is not worried about his offense, which produced over 400 yards in the first two games, but came up with only 280 against Michigan State last week "We're not where we want to be offensively," he says. "But there's no reason to panic. We won a game Saturday on the road against an awfully good Michigan State defense even though we didn't score a touchdown. 
"A coach has to be happy anytime that happens. But we know we've got plenty ofthings to do to improve." 
Quarterback Blair Kiel is coming off his worst outing of the season last week against the Spartans. The junior from Columbus, Ind.. threw three interceptions and had a generally ineffective day throwing, completing jusr 9-of-20 passes for 126 yards. 
One thing the Irish will have in their favor is that Miami hao; never won a game in Notre Dame Stadium in five tries since 1972. But Miami Coach Howard Schnellenberger is confident. 
"We have a lot of kids who have been in an awful lot of big ballgames," he says. "A win over ND would be very significant. I know the Irish will remember thar Miami wa~ the team that put them under. 500 laq year, and they'll be out to avenge that. 
"But more importantly for us. I think our football team has the confidence to believe that they can beat Notre Dame. 
"This is a real hallmark game for us," Schnellenberger con· eludes, "because no Miami team has ever won up in South Bend. We have a chance to accomplish what nobody else has been able to do." 
Blair Kiel 

Filling some famous shoes Mark Richt has stepped in with poise to lead the Hurricane pass attack 
team to the VPI one-yard line. It's this kind of
ByJEAN CLAUDE DELA FRANCE 
play that has prompted the coaches to say that
Sports Editor 

Richt would be a starter on 90 percent of theThe Miami Hurricane 
nation's top college teams. I "We are blessed that we have a great quar­MIAMI -The Miami Hurricanes' 14-8 vic-terback like Mark Richt," Schnellenberger 
tory over Virginia Tech on September 18 said. "Mark has been preparing for this situa­brought about more changes than just anoth­tion for several years. er notch in the win column. "Had he been at another school with a 
The caree.rs of two UM players were vastly similar offense Richt probably would have altered. Jim Kelly, undoubtedly the best quar­found himself in _a successful situation a~ a 
terback im Miami history, suffered a separated starter: breaking records, All-American, and shoulder and was lost for the season. Mark possibly a Heisman candidate." Richt, a former high school all-star quarter­"I know they all have confidence in me," back from Florida who played in Kelly's Richt says ofhis teammates. "I think I've been 
shadow for three years, became Miami's No. 1 around here long enough so that everyone quarterback. Richt, who had yet to start a knows what I can do. I am prepared to do
' game until Kelly's injury, now leads the Hur­whatever it takes to win." ricanes' offense as they continue to go for the Schnellenberger puts the whole situation national championship that Coach Howard into perspective. "This is another obstacle 
Schnellenberger is aiming for that our football team will overcome." he says. Richt's major asset is his poise. He knows "and one that will draw us clo~e together and that every time he steps on the field, he will be demand a little more effort from ead1 of our 
compared to Kelly. Yet his calmness and out· players." look remain unchaugeJ. 
The one thing he has learned during his ap­prenticeship is to be ready. "The No. l priority is to win on Saturday~." says the nati"e of Boca Raton. Fla. "I don't personally set any 
particular number of touchdowns to throw or Since replacing Jim Kelly at quarterback. how many completions I will get hecau!>e it Mark Richt has played 1mpre:.sivelv. Richt will doesn't matter unless you win." he startmg his third game for the Hurricane~ Richt i~ perhaps hest remembered for the thi~ weekend against Notre Dame. 
game lasr year when he came in to lead M1ami In his previous two outing!>, both Miami vic­
to a 21-20 win over Florida. With Kelly tories ( 25-22 over Michigan State and 2R-(, 
injured. Richt came in before 72.000 scream­over Louisville). Richt ha~ completed 3H-of­
ing fans and engineered two drives that 69 pa~se~ for 367 yards and two touchdown~. produced ten points-giving Miami it~ fourth "We feel he ( Richt)can throw just as well a' straight victory oVer th~· cross-state rival Kell) ," says Notre Dame head coach Gerry Gators. faust. "He's done very well in the games he's 
"That game taught me just to stay ready to played so far, and this is his fourth game he's play at all times," Rtcht says. "When I went going into. I don't think that Kellv's injury has into )the Florida game. I wa~ not really as made any difference at ail in their att:~ck." prepared a~ I would've like to have been. With Kelly gonf' for the rest ofthe season, it 
Since then I've promised myself that I'd be looks like the burden ot winning a national ready in case I ever had to go in again." championship falls on the shoulders of Mark He wa~ ready against Virginia Tech, and Richt././ showed signs that he could move the offense Hut if the first two games of his starting when he had to. In that game he completed reign are any indication, Richt is more than two-of-three passes for 28 yards to march the ready to accept the challenge.
Jim Kelly 
~ 
! 

The Irish Extra -Miami Friday, October 8, 1982 -page 4A 
Notre Dame vs. Miami 

he Statistics
.. The Game 
. 

NO OPP RUSHING G NO YDS AWl TO LG
.GAME: Fighting Irish vs. Miami Hurricanes jSITE: Notre Dame Stadium ( 59,075) 
311 4 0 2 25.
iTIME: L30 p.m. EST Saturday, Oct. 9, 1982 279 5-.9 3 37. TV-RADIO: WNDIJ-TV ( Ch. 16) 123 5-.1. 1 19 12 2.0. 0 5
JefJJeJfers andJack Nolan 
11 2c8 0 4 .16 ,,~ 0 ~ Metrosports Replay Network Harry Kalas and · ~.-. j~ 120 4.Z 6 37 
a · 88 011 p;e o 1-9 
~~~~~fbt;wt{$;<~Pt~V'·•·•·•····••••• j~~~~ / ;·~~~i·~~~Sfl~(f······ •·•••·· d.• ~c/ h~ Pet INT vosto·.
IRISH (3-0) 

I 
r 
NOTRE DAME MIAMI SEPT. 18 beat MICHIGAN, 23-17 SEPT. 4lost at Florida, 17cl4 SEPT 25 beat PURDUE, 28-14 SEPT. 11 beatHOUSTONi3l-12 Kiel 
OCT. 3 beat Michigan St., 11-3 SEPT. 18 beat VirginiaTech, 14-8 OCT. 9 MIAMI (FLA.) SEPT. 25 beat MICHIGAN ST 25-22 NOTRE DAME OCT 16ARIZONA 
OPPONENTS
OCT. 2 beat Louisville, 28-6 
NO YDS AVG TO LG
OCT. 23 at Oregon OCT. 9 at Notre Dame PUNT RET 

.J -. 

OCT. 30 Navy at Meadowlands 0 48
OCT. 16 MISSISSIPPI STATE 2 48 24.0 . NOV. 6 at Pittsburgh 2 3 1.5 0 3 Duerson 12 66 5.5
OCT. 30 FLORIDA STATE 
1 16 16.0 0 16 Bell 1 12 12.0
i NOV. 13 PENN STATE 

NOV. 6 at Maryland; NOV. 20 at Air Force 
NOV. 20 NORTH CAROLINA STATE 5 67 13.4 0 48 13 78 6.0 <NOV. 27 at Southern Cal 3 8 2.7 0 6 12 126 10.5
NOV. 27 CINICINNATI 

Each week, The Observer sports staff predict the outcome of the week's major college foot­ball games. Records are compiled as to how each writer does against the spread. HOME TEAM is in capital letters. 
SKIP DESJARDIN DAVE DZIEDZIC CHRIS NEEDLES WILL HARE RICH O'CONNOR Sports Editor Emeritus Assoc. Sports Editor Sports Editor Sports Writer Sports Writer 21-14-1 .600 20-15-1 .571 20-15-1 .571 19-16-1 .543 15-20-1 .429 
GEORGIA over Mississippi by 13 Dawgs Dawgs Dawgs Rebels Dawgs MICHIGAN over Michigan State by 11 Wolverines Spartans Wolverines Wolverines Spartans Iowa over INDIANA by I Hoosiers Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Hawk eyes WEST VIRGINIA over Boston College by 3 Mountaineers Mountaineers Mountaineers Eagles Eagles Texas over OKLAHOMA by 2 Horns Sooners Horns Horns Horns ALABAMA over Penn State by 3 Lions Lions Lions Lions Lions rr' !'\lOIS over Purdue by 12 Illini Illini Illini Boilers Illini \\ ASHINGTON over California by 13 Huskies Huskies Bears Huskies Huskies ARIZONA STATE over Stanford by 6 Sun Devils Cardinal Sun Devils Sun Devils Cardinal AIR FORCE over Navy by 1 Middies Middies Middies Falcons Middies NOTRE DAME over Miami (Fla.) by 6 Irish Irish Irish Hurricanes Irish 
..... 


---------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------~------~ 







