-~---~ 
NDMagazine editor sues AndreW Greeley 
By MARK BOENNIGHAUSEN 
StaffReporter 
A libel suit has been filed byJames Winters, the managing eqitor of the Notre Dame Magazine, against the author-priest Father Andrew Greeley. 
Winter's complaint revolves around remarks made by Greeley about the way Winters gathered material for an article about Greeley. 
The suit asks for $1 million in compensatory damage and $2 mil­lion in punitive damages.-Winters' lawyer has said that his client's career has been hampered since Greeley remarks. 
On the Phil Donahue Show last April, Greeley said, "Here is a kid from the Notre Dame alumni magazine that breaks into my private files, steals tapes ...." Winters maintains that Greeley gave him per­mission to use his files. When Donahue asked about Winters' claim, Greely, answered, "Well he's lying ... I will say publicly on televi­sion that he's lying!" 
In an article that appeared in the New York Times on Sept.. 21 1981, Greeley's lawyer, Patrick W. O'Brien said that Greeley did give Winters permission to use the file but that there was a "misunderstanding." O'Brien added that Winters inadver­tently came into possession of property that belonged to Greeley. 
The materials: mentioned in the 
suit are transcripts of tape-recorded 
observations and various private 
notes. The notes and recordings sup­
posedly contain plans for a scheme 
by which Greeley could embarrass 
the late John Cardinal Cody who at 
that time was Archbishop of 
Chicago. 
Greeley, the author of several books including the bestseller The Cardinal Sins , also issued a press release in September of 1981 in which he said, " The theft of my private documents ... are a form of psychological rape of which all the journalists involved, the actual thieves and those w~->'J use stolen material, ought to be ashamed." 
From the material he collected, 
Winters did produce a 30,000-word 
manuscript, but he was unable to get 
the piece published. A story very 
similar to Winters', according to 
Winters attorney William D. Mad­ 
dux, did appear in the Chicago  
Lawyer, a legal-orientated publica­ 
tion. Maddux said that the Chicago  
Lawyer had a copy of Winters' ar­ 
ticle, but he did not know how the  
publication received it.  
The Chicago Lawyer's editor, Rob  
Warden admits the story was ·  
produced from the same material  
that Winters had but he denied that  
Winters gave him the material.  
Maddox said Winters did not take  
any legal action until now because  
the press release Greeley put out in  
September did not mention his  
name specifically. It was not until  
the television show that Greeley ac­ 
tually mentioned Winters' name.  
Winters declined yesterday to  
comment directly on the lawsuit but  
he did say, "I have decided to settle  
the dispute in a courtroom. When  
the matter reaches a courtroom I  
believe that all relevant questions  The group "Appaloosa" got Notre Dame's  night with a performance on  the north quad.  
will be answered. Until then I don't  welcome week activities off to a good start last  (Photo by Rachel Blount)  
intend to make a public statement."  

Last May 


BoardofTrustees elects Carney chairman 
ByJOHNCOEN 
News Staff 
Thomas P. Carney, chairman and 
president of Metatech Corporation 
and an alumnus of Notre Dame, was 
elected Chairman of the Board of 
Trustees ofthe Universityduring the 
meeting of the Board last May. He 
has been a member of the Board 
since its inception in 1967. 
Carney becomes the Board's second chairman succeeding Ed­mund A. Stephan, an alumnus and Chairman of the Board since the reorganization of the governance of the University fourteen years ago. Stephan has reached the mandatory Board retirement age ofseventy and has been named "Chairman ·Emeritus" of the forty-five member 
organization. 
Carney was chosen after being 
recommended to the Board by a 
nominating committee chaired by 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University 
president. 


Alumni-SeniorClub opens 
Three times larger than the old two, contains a spaciousdance floorj 
bar, the new Alumni-Senior Club The West lounge features a carpete~ 
will officially open for Notre .Dame conversation p;.,t, ~small dance flooq 
• and Saint Mary's studentsand aliltnni and wooden booths. [ on Sunday, Sept. 8. The new 10,000-square-foot Dean of Students James Roemer facility also boasts a large game describes the new structure as room· equipped with new video ' consisting of a "center room with a games. beautiful wood motif" He added Roemer said that the Alumni­: • that the new bar would also con~ist Senior Club would be "a new social 

ofan east and west lounge. facility to allow students to meet .J-The East lounge, the larger of the each other." 
"Tom Carney has seen the Univer­sity from almost every perspective," Stephan said. "He has served as an alumni leader, as a trustee, develop­ment program volunteer, parent, and visiting academic lecturer, to name only a few roles. The breadth and distinction of his past service were the best recommendation for his current appointment." 
In an interview yesterday, Carney said there are three major goals for the Board. First, he hopes to main­tain the "Catholicity" of the Univer­sity. Carney said there are few universities founded in Catholicism and he wants to maintain this aspect. 
Carney also desires to continue the "momentum toward excel­lence" to make Notre Dame not just a good Catholic school but an excel­lent university on a international scale. 
Finally, Carney will encourage the activity ofthe Order ofHoly Cross at the University. He noted the number of young qualified priests whose in­terest in the University needs to be maintained. 
Carney, 67, said it was a "tremendous honor to be named Chairman ofthe Board ofTrusteesof the University ofNotre Dame, and to be selected leader ofan organization ofsuch outstanding people." 
A resident of Lake Forest, Ill., Car­ney received his bachelor's degree in chemical engineering from Notre Dame in 1937. His master's and doc­torate degrees in organic chemistry were conferred by Pennsylvania State University in 1939 and 1941. Carney completed post-doctoral study in medicinal chemistry at the University ofWisconsin. 
Carney spent 35 years in industry accumulating experience in such varied fields as research, develop­ment, planning, operations, and ad­ministration before founding Metatech Corporation, which develops high technology products, in 1976. 

He started his career at Eli Lilly '.Company in Indianapolis working there from 1944 to 1964 in a variety 
ofpositions including vice president of research, development, and con­trol. During his vice presidential tenure, the company's research budget more than tripled, 
Ca.-ney moved to G.D. Searle and Company in 1964 and reached the position ofexecutive vice president of that corporation in 1972. Searle's sales increased almost sevenfold during Carney's service. In 1975, Carney moved to the National Patent Development Corporation, servingas chairman ofthe executive committee. In 1976, he founded his own company. 
Carney is author of three books about industrial productivity. The two most recent were published by the Notre Dame Press. 
Carney is a member of numerous international associations ofscience and has served as a consultant to the United States Department of State, and the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. 
Some of the honors Carney has received from Notre Dame include president ofthe National Alumni As­sociation, membership in the Ad­visory Council for Science and Engineering, centennial awards from the Colleges of Science and Engineering, an honorary LLD. in 1969, Nieuwland Lecturer, and the Alumni Association's highest recognition, the Sorin A ward He has also served as chairman of the stu­dent affairs and faculty committees ofthe Board ofTrustees. 
Carney has had four children graduate from Notre Dame, two sons in 1967 and 1975, and two daughters in 1974 and 1977. 



Chemistry building, five dorms renovated 
By MICHAEL WILKINS 
News Assistant 
Renovation oftlte "old Chemsitry building" and five dormitories began this summer as the University implemented its latest building im­provement program. 
A S500,000 grant from the Lilly Endowment, Inc. of Indianapolis on April 15 enabled the renovation of the Chemistry boiling in addition to the improvements in Washington Hall scheduled for next summer. 
The University matched the grant on a three-to-one basis by providing S1.5 million from unrestricted gifts for remaining costs. 
The old Chemistry building is ex­pected to be finished in time for Art Department courses to occupy the building next semester. The Chemistry Department is moving in­to the new Stephan Hall of Chemistry. 
The building has been completely gutted in preparation for its conver­sion to an arts building, and new electrical and plumbing facilities will be installed 
The renovation of Washington Hall is still in the more formative stages, and bids will be accepted next summer. 
Sorin, Walsh, Fisher, Carroll, and Holy Cross were also renovated during the summer, according to Don Dedrick, director of physical plant operations. 
Old doors were replaced in Sorin, as well as the two main stairways, and carpet in the hallways. The wooden banisters and cappings for the old stairways were kept on the new stairways to retain the style of the hall New showers and toilets in the basement were also installed 
In Walsh Hall, most ofthe renova-
See RENOVATIONS, paae 7 


c­

News Brie/§ 
By The Obsen,er and The Associated Press 
Bendix Corp. workers were back on the job yester­day after a two-day wildcat strike to dramatize their anger with com­pany plans to move some operations from South Bend. The plant had been shut down since Thursday when 3,600 workers failed to show up, company officials said. The production workers, members. of United Auto Workers Union Local 9, were protesting plans to move some functions of the South Bend operation to a new plant in North Carolina The company has said that it will shift some production of the Energy Controls Division to a plant in Rocky Mount, N.C. Energy Controls is one offour major production divisions at the plant. Com­pany officials had called the action illegal and union officials said the UAW did not sanction the action. "It was an illegal work stoppage because of the contract," said Pete Leatherman, a company spokes· man, who denied that any ofthe current divisions were being moved out of town. Union officials could not be reached for immediate com­ment. -AP 
Interior Secretary James Watt discounts a 
~ublished report that he may be dumped by the Reagan administra­tion after the November election. "If you press people keep writing th~t every week for the next seven years, eventually you'll be right," satd Watt, who was in Anchorage starting his second tour of Alaska since being named interior secretary. The Chicago Tribune reported Sunday that well-placed Republican sources are predicting Watt's ous­ter after the election because oflow ratings in opinion surveys, and his ofteq controversial statements. Deputy White House Chief of Staff Mic~a~l K ~eaver was described as believing Watt is a liability to the admmtstration. Watt on Sunday said he does not believe that. -AP 
Virginia Gov. and Mrs. Charles S. Robb saw rwo daughters off to school yesterday on the first day of classes in the Richmond public school system. Lucinda Robb, 13, entered the ninth grade at Jefferson-Huguenot-Wythe High School. Catherine Robb, 12, entered the seventh grade at Albert H. Hill Middle School. The Robb's young­est daughter, 4-year-old Jennifer, will enter a preschool program a Mary Munford Elementary School next week. Robb, the son-in-law of the late President Lyndon B. JohnSon, said earlier this month that he planned to send his daughters to the city schols to show his support of public education. Last year, the girls attended a private school in Fair­fax County, a northern Virginia suburb ofWashington, D.C. -AP 
Nobody won the S500 offered for the fisherman who caught the biggest shark at the First Annual Shark, Northern Pike and Walleye Fishing Derby and Water Moccasin Snake Hunt at the Shadehill Reseryoir in Lemmon, S.D. this weekend. And no one took home the trophy offered for the largest water moccasin, either. The tournament was an attempt to cope with a decline in business stem­ming from shark and water moccasin rumors. The rumors ruined busi­ness this summer in Lemmon, a town of 1,800, and at the reservoir, about 1 0 miles south ofthe town. Employees ofthe Summerville Store near the reservoir decided to fight ftre with fire by holding the tourna­ment. "We decided to make a big joke out of it, to put it in plain English," said store co-owner Dan Baumgarten, adding that business at his store was down 8 percent from last year. The rwo-day tournament attracted 30 fishermen. Baumgarten said the water moccasin story started when a young man who made hat bands from the poisonous snakes released rwo snakes that were too small for his purposes. The shark story was even more unlikely. A 12-inch bonnethead shark was pulled from the reservoir, but it had been preserved and was probably someone's idea of a practical joke. -AP 
The townfolk of Rollegem, Belgium have made the world's largest quilted tapestry and now think it may become the town's biggest headache: no one knows what to do with it. Two cranes lifted the wallhanging ofnearly 771 square yards off the town square during the weekend. "It was up for only 45 minutes because the wind became too strong," said one local who did her share of stitching. "What are we going to do with it? Well, that is still a big question ... There is no place big enough to hang it." Its notarized measurements have been sent to the Guinness Book of Records. It is 16.7 square yards larger than the current titleholder, project organizers said. The multi-colored quilt shows the church of this West Belgian town of 2,500 and the giant "Rollo," the city's symbol. It weighs 913 pounds and was stitched £ogether by 100 families in 1,050 hours, and used 
16.8 miles ofthread. -AP 
A former SS corporal was acquitted yesterday in Hamburg, Germany of charges he murdered a newborn child and a woman suffering from tuberculosis in a Nazi concentration camp near the end ofWorld War II. The court said evidence presented during the five-month trial failed to prove beyond a doubt that the accused, 77· year-old Walter Kuemmel, was responsible for the deaths in 1945 at the Neuengamme camp, near Hamburg. The court also suspended prosecution of Kuemmel for the death of another child, saying the statute of limitations had run out. A spokesman for the prosecution said that because ofKuemmel's age and the time involved in an appeal, it was unlikely the verdict would be appealed. -AP 
Janice Luchies was horrified when a truck plowed through the wall as she slept, burying her beneath her mattress and the rubble ofwhat used to be her bedroom. The 22-year-old hair salon manager suffered only minor injuries Sunday when a fourwheel-drive truck hit a ditch outside her suburban Grand Rapids, Mich. home and plowed through her bedroom wall. "Compared to what the house looks like, I'm very fortunate," Luchies said. "When I look at that, I can't believe I'm here." The driver, Michael Crai DeHaan, 24, ofByron Center, was uninjured. He was cited for driving under the influence of alcoho~ Kent County deputies said. -AP 
~ 
Considerable cloudinessthis morning. A 30 per­cent chance ofafternoon thundershowers. High in the low 80s. An 80 percent chance of thundershowers tonight. Low in the mid to upper 
60s. Tomorrow, chance of showers. Highs in the mid and upper 70s. 
-AP 

---------------------------------------------------------.~--~.-------~--~------­
Tuesday, August 31, 1982 -page 2 
Another exciting year • • • 
By now, many ofus are beginning to face the realiza­tion that the pleasures and tans ofsummer are fading. As the academic year begins, this is a good time to con­template· what lies ahead. Besides the usual hassles of classes and the like, many recent issues and events will be making news and affecting our lives. 
The Pasquerilla dorms are now at full occupancy. The addition of 500 women means that females now com­prise over 30 percc:nt of the student body. This in itself 


is good. As the male/female ratio improves, interaction Mary's student drinks much more alcohol then their of the sexes should become more normal. No longer counterpart at other schools. So far that's about all that will women students be regarded as odditie!t to be has been done · studies. Lots of blame has been tossed gawked at by males. But the social improvements could around. But what is lacking is some solid leadership by be overshadowed by new aggravations brought on by Student Government, the Administration, and the ever­more students. Veteran North Quaders are familiar with present Clergy. the long lines of the North Dining Hall, these lines can Freshman arrive at Notre Dame knowing mostly only get longer with the addition of the hungry hordes about the schools great sports traditions. This year-the from the Pasquerillas. dazzle of athletics has become a fizzle. The highly 
A number of new erections can be seen on both touted football team and the not-so-heralded basketball campuses. Saint Mary's finally has a decent library. team are coming off of losing seasons. Will things However will students from Saint Mary's continue to change? Will the Alumni demand the ouster ofthe man flock to Notre Dame's overgrown social center, other­they deified last year? One thing is certain; Notre Dame wise known as the Memorial Ubrary? The Cushwa­and sports will still be synonymous to most of the Leighton Ubrary is an impressive facility, it deserves to country, despite Father Hesburgh's attempts at produc­be used. ing a midwestern Harvard. 
The decaying pile of One of the more disturb­bricks called The Old Field ing recent trends on campus House is due for demolition has been a noticeable in· in February. Ten years ago a crease in student apathy. concerted effort by the Art Many students continue to Department saved this his· study and complain. toric structure. Now the "There's nothing to do," "All department is being moved the ~ys/girls are jerks," and to the equally ancient for­"Why should I get in· mer chemistry building. In a volved?" are phrases often campus filled with sterile, heard Ten thousand dollars stylistically unattractive a year is a lot to pay a place buildings, The Old Field so many people claim to House sits like a grand hate, especially when most dowager. Within this lady of the complaints are un­are numerous projects by founded. There are things to art students that range from do at Notre Dame and Saint the mundane to the bizarre. Mary's -if you don't need Some sort of "save the Field to be led by the hand. House campaign" probably Numerous activities are will surface. On the tackier side, after the bulldozers are available to compete with study time. Also, despite the through, the University plans to exhibit its' greed by apathy, there are people concerned with something selling 'Genuine Old Fieldhouse Bricks.' I wonder how other than themselves. Last spring a small but vocal many crazed alums will snatch up bricks for Old group ofpeople succeeded in getting the Student Body Fieldhouse bar-b-que pits and patios. to reaffirm a boycott protesting the controversial sales 
Another historic campus structure is already gone. techniques ofthe Nestle Corporation. This fal~ protests The Senior Bar was levelled a few weeks ago. like The against the threat of nuclear annilation are growing. Old Fieldhouse, this building had character. All that University President and globe hopper Father Hes­remains are the memories of happy times and falling burgh is involved in an international group calling for down its many stairs. It has been replaced by a structure disarmament. So far his subjects at Notre Dame have possessing all the charm of a bank. The bank analogy is barely made a whimper to protest being reduced to fitting since the new building is designed to process the ashes. Will the student body voice its opinion? Or will it maximum number of cash-laden, thirsty patrons on stay drunk and isolated? football weekends. Those same lucky people will be These are just a few ofthe issues facing our campuses given the chance to buy old Senior Bar bricks. Now you this fall. Whether they become your issues or not is up can build an outhouse to go with your Old Fieldhouse to you. cabanna 
It is fitting that the same school that builds a bar with· in scoring distance of its football stadium also has a stu­The views expressed in the Inside column are the dent body with a drinking problem. A number ofstudies views of the author, and do not necessarily represent have shown that the average Notre Dame or Saint the views ofThe Observeror its editorial board. 
' ~--·~--~1 '*********************************** TH€ TYPICAL NA\JV MAN'~ 
LOCK€R.
Design Editor.............................. Tim Neely Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor.................... Bob Vonderheide 
We know home's a hard ploce 10 leave. Dut n

Copy Editor............................ Valerie Evans you think it looks good.
Editorials Layout.................. Paul McGinn 
just wait till you have been
Sports Copy Editor............. Dave Dzirozic 
around ..after you've skied
AdDesign.................. Bob, Greg & Marilyn 
in the Alps. fished in New 
Photographer....................... Rachel Blount 
Zealand. hiked in Spain. 
Guest Appearances ..... Witches, Snitches, 

and gone swimming in the Vennicious Knids, Bouncers and 
Aegean ... os o Navy 
Bunglers All 

officer. We really aren't "Four In the morning, crapped out, and 
kidding when we soy. 
"Join the Novy ond 
see the world:'
yawning" 
The Observer !USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and 
•
on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation penods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col­lege Subscnptoons may be purchased tor $25 per year i$15 per semester) by 

NROTC SCHOLARSHIPS ANO COLLEGE PROGRAM BENEFITS WORTH UP TO $30,000 wntmg The Observer P 0 Box Q 
ARE AVAILABLE TO QUALIFIED NOTRE DAME. SAio<T MARY'S. IUSB. HOLY CROSS. 
AND BETHEL COLLEGE STUDENTS.
Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The 

COiH Aa NROTC, NOTRE DAME. 239-6«20RTHE SOUTH BEND NAVY RECRUITING Associated Press All reproduction 
OFFICE. 233-39ll tordetoi\s. 
nghts are reserved Second class postage pa•d at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 

***********************************~ 
The Observer Tuesday, August 31, 1982 ~ page 3 
Notre Dame stargazer lands $164,000grant 
By TIM VERCELLOTII 
News Editor 
A scholar of ancient astronomy, now affiliated with Notre Dame's history department, was "overjoyed" when she received an 
unexpected  SI64,000  grant  last  
July.  
Francesca  Rochberg-Halton,  an  

expert in Assyrian stargazing at the University of Chicago's Oriental In­stitute, was one of 19 prize fellows named by theJohn D. and Catherine 
T. MacArthur Foundation. 
"I was overwhelmed by the whole thing . . . I was tremendously honored and overjoyed," she said yesterday. 
The element ofsurprise may have figured into Rochberg-Halton's ela­tion. According to MacArthur foundation literature, a number of secret "talent scouts" from across the country make nominations for the "no strings attached" funds. Potential recipients are unaware of their status until the decisions are announced. 
After she was told of the founda­tion's decision, Rochberg-Halton said she felt relieved that she would be able to continue her research, which involves regular transatlantic trips to the British Museum in Lon­don. 
"This is going to make it possible to do everything I wanted to do," she said. 
While at the British Museum Rochberg-Halton plans to decipher Babylonian cuneiform texts dealing with ancient astronomy and astrol­ogy, in addition to furthering her studies at the Oriental Institute and at Notre Dame. 
Rochberg-Halton is affiliated with the History Department here, while her husband, Eugene Halton, teaches in the Sociology Depart­ment. She hopes to deliver lectures on the ancient Near East and and an­cient science and astronomy while at Notre Dame. 
Rochberg-Halton received her bachelor's degree from the Univer­sity of Pennsylvania, and her doc­torate from the University of Chicago. In 1979-80 she was a research associate on the Assyrian dictionary. 
The Assyrian scholar was one of 19 artists and scientists to receive MacArthur Foundation grants ran­ging from n 20,000 to $300,000, for use over a five-year period. 
The MacArthur Foundation grew out ofa trust established in 1970 by John D. MacArthur, who amassed a fortune through real estate and the insurance business. 
The foundation, which has awarded the prize fellow grants since 1978, awarded nearly J4 mil­lion this year, in an effort to en­courage academic freedom while reducing money worries for the recipients. 
According to a foundation pamphlet, it is hoped "that this freedom will lead to discoveries or other significant contributions to society that might not otherwise be made." 
Phoenix patrolman surrenders campground 
CAMP VERDE, Ariz. (AP) -A Phoenix patrolmansuspected ofkill­ing a fellow officer surrendered yes­terday after keeping police at bay all night from a stolen sports car parked 
in  the  middle  Qf  a  rugged  
campgro und.  
"The  Camp  Verde  situation  is  

code four," or all clear, officers broadcast of police radio channels after the arrest of Officer Thomas Hernandez, Jr., 31, early in the after­noon. 
Since Sunday night, state Depart· ment of Public Safety officers and Yavapai County sherift's deputies had ringed the campground 85 miles north ofPhoenix. 
Earlier Yavapai County Sheriff Curly Moore had said Hernandez would "talk real good" one moment and get depressed the next and would say that "he would 'take the easy way out and let us shoot him."' 
Negotiations that began Sunday .night wore on under a hot sun with Hernandez, who was parked in a break in the brush at the Coconino National Forest. 
As long as he was willing to talk, the officers surrounding him made no move, and ultimately they per· suaded him to give up. . 
Hernandez was wanted in con­nection with a burst ofviolence that began with the shooting death ofhis roommate, Officer Ray Shaar, 40. 
Officer Jim Wilson, another of Hernandez' roommates, discovered Shaar's body Sunday morning in a house shared by the three officers. 
Police said Hernandez held up a store, stole the sports car at gun­point from a couple in suburban Scottsdale and fired on two pursuing officers, who were not injured. 
Dozens of state Department of Public Safety officers and Yavapai County sherift's deputies converged on the primitive campground late Sunday after the car was spotted by a· deputy. 
During the negotiations in 1 00­aegree heat, Hernandez surren­dered a semi-automatic weapon and ammunition in exchange for a soft drink and fruit punch, Moore said. Other spokesmen said Hernandez still had two other weapons and al· most 3,000 rounds ofammunition. 
A negotiator for the Department ofPublic Safety, who asked not to be identified, said officers used bul­lhorns to keep Hernandez awake through the night whenever he tried to roll up the car'swindows and stop talking. 
Moore said Hernandez periodical· ly stepped out of the car but that "he's always got a gun in his hand." He said the fugitive's mood fluc­tuated between calm and depres­sion. 
"He talks real good and then gets 

good and depressed and then he's 
teal good," Moore said. "One minute 
he says he'd like to take the easy way 
out and let us shoot him. Then he 
says wait a minute. Then he says 'Let 
me think about it."' 
.st:t:,;; •..·.<ll!f~~.:+i.'lt-. ,N;;;;'I't! · ~  
NEED HELP WITH YOUR COllEGE COSTS? 8~ joining today 's Army Reserue on certain specialties. you can haue part of your college debt forgiuen. and get other assistance with your college expenses. If you haue taken out a Guaranteed Student Loan or National Direct Student Loan since October I. 1975. and join the Army Reserue. you can haue IS% of the loan (or SSOO. which­euer is greater) forgiuen for each year of seruice you complete. You also receiue a cash bonus of Sl.OOO. or get $4,000 for college expenses. You would also be paid for your trainin!J and earn atleastSI.OOO annualltJ in drill pay for one weekend a month and two weeks each year. for rnore information on ways to couer college costs. see your Army Reserue Recruiter. SGTCanty 234-4187 Army Reserue·Be AU You Can 8e  

 


SHOP 10-9, SAT 1 0-5:30, SUN 1-6 
• EVERY COLOR IMAGINABLE 
-. ,_ "-.ooi ­
...._. ..... --....._.. 
..._ -.._,.... -......
-··-·-.... 
-­

·-,_ -..... -..,_...,_ ·-,_,_c-..... -­
..._. "-.ooi ..___ ........,_ 
....,... ......,. c................ 
..... ...... ...,....... ........Oh. 
. -.... ._.. -------­..... 
-..._ ,......... -­

·-

AIEl'S UI.ST CAIPET SPECIALn ST.E 
South Bene!, 1/3 mile before State Line. 

Tuesday, August 31, 1982 -page 4
The Observer 


Palestinian Liberation Organization leader Yasser Arafat joined his exiled legions yesterday. Arafat swore to fight "until victory." -AP 

RIVER CITY RECORDS PROUDLY PRESENTS THE CHARTER BUS TOUR TO: 

Farewell Tour! 
October 5 & 6, 1982 The Rosemont Horizon Rosemont, Illinois 
Limited supply of charter bus trip packages for The Who Concerts are now on sale at River City Records, 50970 
U.S. 31 North, South Bend, Indiana. Call 277·4242 for further Information. 
Package includes round trip transportation by deluxe Indiana Motor Bus Coach, good reserved seat to concert and refreshments on bus. 
Cannonsboom 

Arafat rejoins exiled Palestinians 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -Can­nons boomed and PLO supporters cheered yesterday when Yasser Arafat sailed away to join his defiant Palestinian legions, scattered into a new exile by the Israeli troops they have sworn to fight "until victory." 
Before he departed on a Greek passenger ship bound for Athens, the guerrilla leader vowed Israel would suffer his "vengeance the day after tomorrow," and also attacked the Arab world for not helping the Palestine Liberation Organization in the fight for its 12-year-old Beirut power base. 
Standing on the deck of the ship Atlantis in a military jacket and black-checked kaffiyeh headdress, Arafat flashed the "V'' for victory sign at Prime Minister Shafik W azzan and a crowd of Lebanese dignitaries who stood on the quay, many of them in tears. 
Fifteen cannon salvos boomed as the Atlantis gave a two-minute farewell blast of its horns and cruised off with a U.S. 6th Fleet frigate and a French warship l.n es­cort. 
About five hours later, an es­timated 600 more guerrillas sailed for Algeria on the Cypriot ferry Sol Georgios, bringing the number of departed PLO fighters to 7,285 by Lebanese government and PLO count. 
The PLO has said there were 7,100-7,500 guerrillas in the city when the evacuation started 10 days ago, along with about 3,100 Palestine Liberation Army "regulars" who already have left. Is­rael has said there are about 8,600 guerrillas in Beirut, but there was no way to reconcile the conJlicting numbers. 
The U.S.-arranged withdrawal is expected to end by tomorrow with the departure ofthe rest ofthe guer­rillas and the remainder ofthe 3,000 Syrian troops trapped in west Beirut by the Israelis. 

About 1 ,200 of them left yester­day in a convoy and Syria's official news agency SANA said they rejoined Syrian forces facing Israeli troops along a 25-mile front in east­ern Lebanon's Bekaa Valley. 
Israel has said it will not leave Lebanon before the Syrians, but Lebanese government sources said that once the evacuation is over, Wazzan will demand Israeli withdrawal from Christian east Beirut. 
In Moslem west Beirut, meanwhile, the Lebanese army deployed in strategic points, and took over the PLO's Henry Chehab and Fakhreddin military barracks.. 
Soldier's parents say he did notdefectin Korea 
ST. LOUIS (AP)-The parents of 

U.S. Army Pvt. Joseph T. White said yesterday their son is "a prisoner, not a defector" to Noeth Korea 
At a news conference in front of their south St. Louis home, Norval and Kathleen White told reporters they believe their son has been taken prisoner by North Koreans, who are trying to use him for propaganda purposes. 
"I want my son back," said Mrs. White, tlanked by her husband and three oftheir children. 
Army officials reported White missing from the buffer zone be­tween Noeth and South Korea early But the soldiers stayed off the streets, allowing police officers to patrol them, and leftist Moslem militia leaders made no move to stop the deployment. 
Several banks that had been closed since soon after the June 6 Is­raeli invasion reopened, as did many government offices. 
"The snows of Mount Hermon were warmer than the hearts of some of the Arab regimes," Arafat said in a pre-departure statement. "The earth under Arab regimes will soon be shaken by Beirut's erupting volcano. I am leaving to continue the struggle so that we can win." 
In Manama, Bahrain, the radical newspaper Al-Khaleej quoted Arafat as saying the Palestinians will "take account tomorrow and take venge­ance the day after tomorrow." 
Saturday. A north Korean broadcast said later that the 20-year-old White had denounced U.S. foreign policy and sought political asylum in Noeth Korea. 
H White did defect, he would become the first American to leave for that country since 1965 and the fifth since the police action In Korea ended in 1953. 
The Whites showed reporters copies of a letter Joseph wrote to a neighborhood friend on Aug. 20 to support their contention that White was actually taken prisoner by the North Koreans. 
You want 
REAL PIZZA? 
DELIVERY MENU 
(HOT FRESH PIZZA TO YOUR DOOR) 
Pizza Med. The Combo 10.35 (Beef. Sausage, Onion, Black Olive, Mushroom, Pepperoni) 
Taco Pizza 10.35 (Beef, Onion, Cheddar Cheese, Fresh Lettuce, Tomato, Mozzarella) 
HumblePfe 10.35 (Green Pepper, Spicy Sausage, Onion, Pepperoni) 
Deluxe Cheese 7.45 Any 1 topping 7.95 Any 2 toppings 8.75 Any 3 toppings 9.55 11.55 Any 4-6 toppings 10.35 12.45 
Each Addnl. Ingredient .80 .90 
qe~Godfatha•s Pizza® ~i..., 
In South Bend Business 31 North 
FOR DELIVERY CAll.: 277-5880 
Call Godfather's Pizza... we deliver on campus...You get the best pizza in town, and FREE Coke... 32 oz. with a medium and 64 oz. with a large... 
It's an offer you can't refuse... 
EXPRESS PIZZA Medium Pepperoni or Medium Sausage Pizzas are available faster than custom ordered pizzas. 
Remember to pickup your FREE student calendar at the Stepan Center Sept. 1 & 2... 


~------------.-------------------~--------------~---------------------------------------------­
The Obse~~er . Tuesday, August 31, 1982 ~ page 5 _ 
CommunicatiQt). stressed 
Saint Mary's Board tnakes plans 
By MARY ANN POITER 
News Staff 
The Saint Mary's Board of Gover­nance made plans for the 82-83 school year during an orientation program held this past week. 
The orientation, which began Wednesday and ended yesterday, consisted of informational lectures, discussions and planning sessions for events for the coming year. 
Throughout the Board's orienta­tion, members attended informal lectures on leadership and program­ming activities by Dean of Student Affairs Kathleen Rice and Director of Student Activities Mary Anne O'Donnell. 
Communication was stressed to all of the Board members as a vital means of success. Student Body President Kathleen Murphy and Vice President of Student Affairs Elaine Hocter agreed with Vice President of Academic Affairs Beth Tighe when Miss Tighe said that "a successful student government boils down to successful com~a1unica­tion." 
Murphy, Hocter and Tighe form the delegating power ofthe Board of Governance. They work with the secretary and treasurer to form the student government officers. 
The Board also consists of ten commissioners responsible for various aspects ofcollege life. These commissioners, along with their respective committees, plan ac-
Pubtic previews faculty art 
By ED KONRADY 
News Staff 
Freshmen art majors will get a chance to see their future profes­sors' recent works when the faculty art show opens September 5 in the Snite Museum ofArt. 
The works of twelve Notre Dame 
professors will be featured in this 
year's show, which has been an an­
nual event since 1974. 
"The show has an equilibrium to it," said Professor Don Vogl, who has an exhibit in the show. "It has abstract things in the front and figurative things in the back. 
"Most faculties, like IUSB, seem to have a single direction which is usually figurative," said Vogl. "We (at Notre Dame) have an advantage in that students don't have to decide what style a school has and then pick, they can pick a school and work in their own style." 
The twelve instructors exhibiting their work in the show are: Art Department Chairman Frederick Be­ckman, Tom Fern, Doug Kinsey, Dick Steven, Robert Leader, Fr. James Flanigan, William Kremer, Richard Gray, Moira Geoffrion, George Tisten, Rob Mackie, and Don Vogl. 
The exhibit will run until October 10 in the O'Shaugnessey Galleries, and is open to the public. 
Rocco's Hair 

-Styling 531 N. Michigan St.• 
South Bend' 

Phone 233-4957 
tivities for the student body in the as the Student Activities Program­
· various areas. As members of the ming Board Commissioner and the Board, the commissioners report Vice President ofStudent Affairs. and discuss the plans made by each This council also met during the stu­committee. dent government orientation. The four class presidents and the Some of the upcoming ativities __five residence hall presidents are in­discussed at the orientation cluded in the Board of Governance. meetings include the dedication of Their job on the Board is the same as the Cushwa-Leighton Library on that of the commissioners. In addi­next Friday. Next Saturday, the SAPB tion, they organize ativities for each is presenting Sound Showcase. It · class and residence hall and report will be featuring three bands on to the Board. Saint Mary's North Quad. The Hall Presidents' Council con­The next meeting of the Board of sists of these nine presidents as well Governance will be Sunday, Sept. 5. 
Inmate wins new trial after serving 16 years 
BOSTON (AP)-An inmate who 

served almost 16 years for murder 
before winning a new trial and the 
chance to prove his claim of in­
nocence walked out of court a free 
man yesterday when a judge dis­
missed the case against him. 
"I just figured this would happen 
someday," said George Reissfelder, 
42, who had once been a lifer with 
no hope of parole. He smiled at the 
crowd and at his lawyers afterJudge 
Paul K. Connolly dismissed the case 
in Suffolk Superior Court. 
Reissfelder and his lawyers went 
for a victory lunch at Quincy Market, 
a popular tourist spot that hadn't 
been renovated when Reissfelder 
was jailed in 1967. 
After ordering a beer, Reissfelder, 
tanned and grinning in his jailhouse 
jeans and a blue shirt, said he was 
feeling "like a bug under a micro­
scope. 
"I thought a couple of people 
might be here, but not all this," he 
said, gesturing to reporters and 
photographers crowding around his 
table at an outdoor cafe. 
"My only regret is my family is not 
here to see this," he said, referring to 
his mother and father, who died 
while he was in jail. 
"We're very happy," said the inmate's brother, Richard Reissfel­der, 40, of Randolph. "We're going to have to take one day at a time." 

Reissfelderwon a new trial in June on the 1966 murder charge after a series of witnesses testified he was innocent. 
Reissfelder's relatives had already begun their celebration when he 
NOTRE DAME-CREDIT UNION 
Services Include 
*Share Savings *Money Orders *Free Travelers Checks 
Coming Jan.1 
A.T.M's (Automated Teller Machines 
\ 

Offering 24 hour access to your financial needs at convenient locations. 
Regular hours: Lobby: M-F 8:30am-5:00pm Wednesday's until5:30 pm· Drive-in: M-F 8:30am-5:30pm Friday's until6:00 pm Located just north ofStepan Center 
was released. 
"There's a big sheet outside," said Donn!_Re!_~felder, the inmate's sister-in-law. She said her four children made a banner that said "Welcome Home Uncle George" and hung it on the garage door at the family's home. 
"They spent two days making that sign, measuring the letters," she said. 
"All he wants is peace and quiet," Mrs. Reissfelder said after talking with Reissfelder late Sunday by telephone from Walpole State Prison. 
"He's really nervous. He said he had butterflies in his stomach," she said. 
"He wants a cold beer and a sub­marine sandwich," Richard Reissfel­der. "You can get everything else in the world in prison but those two things. So I have the beerand I'll stop and get him a sub." 
Reissfelder spent nearly 16 years in state prisons after being con­victed of first-degree murder and armed robbery in the theft of a S20,000 Railway Express Agency payroll at Boston's South Station in 1966. 
Witnesses identified Reissfelder, then 29, as being at the scene. 
He won a new trial in June, based largely on a deathbed statement in 1972 by his co-defendant, William "Silky" Sullivan. Gravely ill with leukemia, Sullivan told a priest that Reissfelder was innocent. 

building and some residence balls. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
. --­

~ '" ~ . 
' ''",........... ... "t.. ·: • .?: 
·CORBY'S WELCOMES ND-SMC CLASSOF'83 

Tues. Aug. 31
TODAY 

Tips and Polish Sausage 
COME AND 


* Share Draft Checking 
*Safe Deposit Boxes 
* AndMore ••••• 

The Observer Tuesday, August 31, 1982 -page 6 
Nine members of Notre Dame community die 
Lafayette College staff as publica­tions editor and receiving an American Alumni Council Award for 
The editor of Notre Dame editingone ofthe top ten magazines. Magazine and four present and for­While at Notre Dame, Parent mer faculty members died during received an M.A. in communication the summer. The five men devoted a arts in 1974. total of 132 years of service to the Memorial services were held University. Thursday at Sunnyside Presbyterian 
Ronald R Parent, editor of the Church in South Bend and Friday at alumni publication; Peter T. Brady, a Sacred Heart Church. professor of accountancy; Father Brady, an accountancy professor 
Facuity/Staff 
Ronttld k. Pareut Peter T. Brady james L. Shilts Ben1urdj. l.f,.tlrtl 
Francis P. Cavanaugh, former dean for 30 years, died in mid-June after a of the College of Arts and Letters; briefillness. Father James L Shilts, an assistant A former member of the faculty professor of physics and rector of senate and moderator of Alpha Beta Carroll Hall and Bernard). Ward, for­Psi, honor fraternity for accoim­merly ofthe Notre Dame Law School tancy majors, Brady had won all passed away recently. "teacher of the year" awards from 
Parent, 45, died of leukemia last students in the College of Business Saturday at Billings Hospital in Administration. Chicago. He had also been cited for in­
A native of Maine, Parent joined augurating new courses in his Frum:is 
P. Cm•anaugb Puu/ Bertolini Alita Anne Buhman Gina Crinel/a Kathleen Roche the Notre Dame publications staff in department, including the current 1970, and twice directed the Uni­class in contemporary issues. versity's magazine to a first place Brady received a bachelor of honorary fellowship. 1949 and 1961. ment ofChiefJustice Earl Warren as 
award among all alumni publica­science in commerce at Notre Dame With the exception of two years In 1970, he was named asistant reporter for the Appellate Rules tions in the nation. The magazine in 1949, and a C.P.A. certificate and in the early 1930'swhen he taught at vice president for student affairs and Committee of the Judicial Con­never failed to be included in the top M.B.A. at new Yrok University. He the College of St. Thomas, St. Paul, represented the administration on ference of the U.S. ten during Parent's tenure. served as an auditor of the Notre Minn., and the University of the Student Life Council. In 1978 ChiefJustice Warren Bur­
He was a former trustee of the Dame Credit Union for several years. Portland, he was a lifelong member Shilts entered the Holy Cross ger appointed Ward to the 
Council for the Advancement and Cavanaugh, 82, former Arts and ofthe Notre Dame faculty. Seminary in 1943, and St. Joseph seven-member Committee on Rules Support of Education (CASE), a fre­Letters dean, died in earlyJune after An authority on family life and im­Novitiate in 1944. He also attended of the Judicial Conference, a com­quent participant in its conferences a lenghty illness. migration, Cavanaugh travelled Holy Cross College in Washington mittee that sets policy for the na­and contributor to its publications. A professsor emeritus of sociol­throughout the country to give talks D.C., and was ordained at Notre tion's judicial system. 
CASE honored Parent at their na­ogy, he was a brother of the late at sociology conferences and Dame in 1953. tional meeting in Toronto last Father John ). Cavanaugh, former meetings. He was the author ofIm­Ward, a former Notre Dame Law 
Students

month whenNotreDameMagazine president of the University, who migration at Work Today andNotes sChool professor and an authority on received the Robert Sibley Award died in December, 1979. on the Family. civil procedure and the federal Three Lyons residents died from 
for best 1982 alumni magazine, as A native of Oswosso, Mich., Shilts, 56, a member ofthe Univer­courts, died in Austin, Texas in early injuires sustained in a one-car acci­well as 10 other awards. Cavanaugh was born in Oswosso, sity faculty since 1961, died earlier May. dent near Barstow, Calif., last May as Parent was a journalist in the U.S. Mich. in April, 1900, and entered the this month after a briefillness. At the time of death, Ward, 56, they drove home for summer vaca­
Navy from 1957 to 1962 and spent congregation ofHoly Cross in 1919. An assistant professor of physics was a member of the University of tion. And another student, Paul Ber­He received a bachelor of arts at
three ofthose years in Japan. and rector of Carroll Hall, Shilts Texas law faculty. tolini, died of a massive heart attack He later attended the University Notre Dame in 1923 and was or­specialized in astronomy and was a Ward taught at Notre Dame Law at his home last May, one week after of Maine, where he received a jour­dained in 1927. member of the American School from 1954 to 1968. He was graduating from Notre Dame. nalism degree in 1966. He served as Cavanaugh received his doctorate Astronomical Society. He received the co-author ofAppeals to Court of Kathleen Roche, 20, ofEscondido, associate editor of Maine Alumnus at Catholic University of Minnesota, undergraduate and graduate Appeals, published in 1969. magazine before joining the where he was the recipient of an degrees in physics at Notre Dame in Ward later served under appoint-See DEATH, page 7 


BARNABY'S 2Locations . 713 E. Jefferson 3724 Grape Rd 288-4081 256-0928 South Bend Mishawaka WELCOME BACK! . Featuring Pizza, Sandwiches, Soups, Salad Bar Offering Beer, Wine & Soft Drinks U.S.31 stadium Eddy Juriper ACC Uriversity Park Mall GrapeRd GrapeRd  $2offarv 14"pizza_ exp Sept 12 .COUPON $1 off al'l/ ·pitcher of beer (must be 21 exp. Sept. 12 COUPO~< Buy one sardwich Get one free xp. Sept. 12  Sl off arv 1 O"pizza exp. Sept 12 SOc off arv sardwich Exp. Sept 12 COUPON re free refill of pitcher soft driri<s exp Sept. 12  

~-­

The Observer Tuesday, August 31, 1982-page 7 
Fired IBM worker bombs offices 

RESEARCH TRIANGLE PARK, chase on Interstate 40, Sheriffs Capt. ing from the head. 
N.C. (AP) -A recently fired IBM Tommy King said. Avery's car was Mike Pandich, manager of com­
corporate employee walked into surrounded by police who had set munications for IBM, said company IBM's offices here with two up a roadblock in Raleigh, about 10 records showed Avery,,of Raleigh, firebombs and a rifle and began miles from the shootings. worked at IBM as a senior assembler 
firing, killing one employee and Avery apparently had shot himself from November 1979 until his dis­leaving four otherS injured, the Dur­in the head with a derringer as he 
missal on Aug. 19. He refused to ham County Sheriffs department approached the police roadblock, elaborate on Avery's job. said. King said. He was ordered to surren­"The reason for his termination is The suspect, dressed in futiques der, but was only able to hang his a private matter and we don't dis-and identified as Leonard D. Avery, hands outside the car window, King 
See BOMBING, page 8

39, was taken into custody after a said, adding that the man was bleed­
... Renovations 

continuedfrom page I 
tions were made to the rooms them­selves. All the rooms were painted and given new lights and windows. TI1e plumbing system was removed and replaced and the basement recreation area refurbished and retiled. 
Carroll Hall received new pipes as well as new social space and food service area in the basement and a new study area on the first floor. 
The basement of Fisher Hall was refurbished and a new window was added in the basement to improve the ventilation in the social area. 
A campus program to improve security and fire safety was respon­sible for the addition of smoke detectors and an emergency exit system in Holy Cross Hall and the in­stallation of smoke detectors throughout Howard, Lyons, and Morrissey Halls. 
Director·of Student Residences Father Michael Heppan said, "We hope to bring all the halls up to life­safety standards. All students should be conscious not to over-use exten­sion cords and must be cart;ful to fol­low University stand t ards when building elevated lofts." 
No other new renovations are ex­pected in the dorms, though the old field house is scheduled to be torn down in February. It will be replaced with a "pedestrian mall similar to the one south of the main building," Dedrick said. 
Bids were taken Friday for the remodeling of the old WNDU build­ing which will soon house the social 
.. . Death 
continuedfrom page 6 
Calif., died at the scene ofthe May 15 
crash, which occurred in the desert 
about 14 miles east of Barstow. 
Gina Crinella, 21, of Costa Mesa, 
Calif. and Alita Buhman, 20, of Hun­
tington, Calif., were taken to nearby 
hospitals. Crinella died five hours 
later. Buhman was admitted in criti­
cal condition, and died just over two 
weeks later. 
The California Highway Patrol 
said following the accident that the 
car apparently ran off the road and 
rolled over, throwing the three from 
the vehicle. 
While there were no witnesses, 
police said that physical evidence 
showed that the driver might have 
fallen asleep at the wheel. It is not 
known who was driving at the time. 
Roche was a transfer student in 
the Freshman Year of Studies 
program, Crinella was a sophomore 
in the College ofArts and Letters and 
Buhman was a sophomore in the 
College ofEngineering. 
In the other incident, Paul Ber­
tolini, ofNiles, Ill., died suddenly ofa 
massive heart attack one week after 
receiving a Bachelor's degree in 
American Studies. 
Bertolini was a member of the 
Notre Dame Marching Band and a 
frequent preformer at the Nazz, the 
coffeehouse in the basement of 
Lafortune Student Center. 
A release from Dean of Students 
James Roemer's office stated that the 
former Zahm resident "had not been -ill, and his death was unexpected" 
concerns offices and the Center for Experiential Learning. Work on the building should begin within a week and is expected to be completed by December. 
Another change is the construc­tion of a new Alumni-Senior Club. Though the building is completed, it will not open until September 8 so that equipment can be installed. However, "It will definitely be open for the Michigan game," Dedrick assured. 
The only renovations made at Saint Mary's were the remodeling of the admissions office in LeMans Hall and the; re-roofing of Regina Hall. Minor renovations were made in the Science Building, the Dining Hall, and Moreau Hall, which is still being worked on. 1be Cushwa-Leighton Library was also completed over the summer with a dedication ceremony scheduled for Friday. 
EAB\GWHEEL B CAMPUS\ MPAGERALLY! W\NONE()F The Revlon Flex Rampage-Rally$750,000 in prizes! Now Flex... the fabulous Instant Conditioner and Shampoo... invites you to be a big wheel on campus! Enterthe 50 50 Flex-Rampage Rally Sweepstakes! It's e-.Schnetder • Mltsublshl easy...and you may win a 1983Rampage ---·,==.., -.Jstereo 111-.AM-FM Sport, Dodge's personal size pickup. Component Car Stereos and SystemsThe rally is a Sports Car Club ofAmerica Philips Car SpeakersSolo II Skill Rally. If you win you'll be at the wheel of your own Rampage. Or win one of hundreds ofother prizes. Go to your participating Flex retailer and pick up an entry blank. Just fill it 10050out and take itto your participatln~ REVLON Dodge dealer. IConlca Implement Sets If your name is drawn you'll get $50 Ef-3 Cameras for Men and cash, a new Rampage on loan to drive Women to the Flex-Rampage Rally In your area REVLON See your participating Flex Retail outlets tor official rules and details.and a year's supply of Flex Shampoo No purchase necessary. Void where prohibited. Licensed drivers oniJ ~expires Septembel18. 1982.and Conditioner. C1982 Revlon Inc.  

---------~--------~------------------.~~~~~~~-­
The Observer Tuesday, August 31, 1982 -page 8 

Whtle some ND students were busy unpacfling their belongings, others never made it off of the baggage truck. (photo by Rachel Blount) 
Welcome to Notre Dame! 
Take the EASY RIDER to and from Chicago's O'Hare. Clip and save this schedule for travel planning! 
LEAVE NOTRE DAME BUS SHELTER  LEAVE MICHIANA REGIONAL AIRPORT  ARRIVE ()HARE  LEAVE 0 HARE  ARRIVE Mlf.HIANA REGIONAl AIRPOR 1  ARRIVF Nn1RF OAMI Hll~ SHH1H  
4 30 am 5 30 am 7 30 am 9 30 a m 11 30a m 1 30 p m 3 30 p m. 5 30 p m  5 00 am 6 00 am 8 00 am 10 00 am 12 OOnoon 2 00 p.m 4 00 p m 6 00 p m  7 15 am 8 15 am 10 15 am 12 15 p m 2 15 p m 4 15 p m 6 15p m 8 15 p m  8 30 am 10 30."' 12 30 p m Z 30om 4 30 o m 6 30 p m 8 30 p m 11 00 p m  10 4~ a m 11 4!> om 1 4~ p m 4 4~ p m 6 45 p m 8· 4~ u m 10 4~ p rn 1 1'1 n m  , , nn .1 '" , no I' m lllllll'll r,,m;.n­'11111111' t.j liiJ ~ .,. '1 Ill:, ·•· H· I ·._J  

TIMES EFFECTIVE THROUGH OCTOBER 31 19R~ (WATCH FOR OUR NEW FALL SCHEDULE' 1 CALL FOR COMPLETE LIST OF PICKUP POINTS ANn liMI· 
For Reservations 
(219) 255-3068 
or call your travel agent. 
Ingrid Bergmandies ofcancer 
LONDON (AP) Ingrid Bergman, the radiant Swedish actress who won three Academy Awards and a place among Hoi· lywood's immortals, lost an eight· year battle against cancer Sunday night at her London home. She died on her 67th birthday. 
"Nothing Ingrid Bergman did can be done better by anyone else," mourned longtime friend Georg Rydeberg, co-star of her early Swedish movies nearly half a cen· tury ago. 
The death of Bergman, one of the screen's great beauties, was an· nounced yesterday by her daughter, Pia Lindstrom, in New York and by her agent in London, where the actress made her home. Former hus­band Lars Schmidt was with Bergman at the end. 
A tall and elegant woman with brown hair, deep blue eyes and a radiant smile, Bergman retained her beauty into middle age. 
In a sometimes stormy career, thrice-divorced Bergman won Os· cars as best actress for "Gaslight" in 1944, and for "Anastasia" in 1956, and as best supporting actress for "Murder on the Orient Express" in 1974. 
"Casablanca" in 1943 made her an international star as the object of Humphrey Bogart's unforgettable line: "Here's looking at you, kid." 
Her other best-loved films include "For Whom the Bell Tolls," "Spellbound," "Saratoga Trunk," "The Inn of the Sixth Happiness;" "The Yellow Rolls-Royce" and "Autumn Sonata" 
Her last role was an acclaimed portrayal of Israeli Prime Minister Golda Meir in the television film, "A Woman Called Golda," broadcast this year. 
Discovered by producer David 0. Selznick and invited to co-star with Leslie Howard in the 1939 remake of her European hit "Intermezzo," 
Bergman  quickly  became  Hol­ 
lywood's sweetheart.  
But her public image  was  shat·  

tered in 1949when she left her ft irst husband, Swedish brain surgeon Dr. Peter Lindstrom, and their daughter, Pia, in America and went to Rome to live with, and bear a son by, Italian director Roberto Rossellini. She and Rossellini later married. Besides the boy Robertino, they had twin daughters, Isabella and Isotta in 1952. 
U.S. Sen. Edwin Johnson denounced the actress in Congress as "a powerful influence for im· morality" and her career appeared in ruins. 
The marriage to Rossellini dis· solved in 1958 as Bergman, 43, con· tinued making films in Europe. 
She married Schmidt, a Swedish theatrical producer, in 1958, and they divorced in 1975. 
Bergman was welcomed back to the American film world in 1969. In 1972, Sen. Charles Percy put an offi· cial apology on the Congressional record for "the personal and profes· 'Sional persecutions that caused her to leave this country at the height of her career." 
In her 1980 autobiography, "Ingrid Bergman: My Story," the actress said: "when I was young I prayed that I may never have a dull moment and whoever is up there, he certainly heard me." 
Cancer struck while she was 
appearing in George Bernard Shaw's 
"The Constant Wife" on the London 
stage and filming Agatha Christie's 
"Murder on the Orient Express," 
and she underwent a mastectomy in 
1974. 
In 1977, while making "Autumn Sonata" with Swedish director In· gmar Bergman, the illness struck again and she had a second breast removed, but returned to London to star in the stage play "Waters of the Moon." 
A co-star of that play, Doris Hare, recalled: "She never let the audience down at all. She was a great big shining star. I used to look at her 
continuedfrom page 7 
cuss that with anybody," Pandich said. 
Pandich said the man entered the plant yesterday and hurled two gasoline fiCebombs, one of which ignited and blackened a wall. The 

S·N MINI MART 
Your New Food Store on Notre Dame Ave. for All your food &munch-ies 
832 South Bend Ave. 

when she came on and the whole place lit up, she was that sort ofper· son." 
She later wrote of her battle against cancer: "I didn't take it as badly as I expected. Of course it is sad .. .I didn't want to look at myselfin the mirror, that's for sure." 
She decided to keep on working, and as recently as April was telling reporters, "I'm not as young as I used to be. But my health is fine. I am not dying." 
The last time she was seen in public was in May when she walked slowly, supported by friends, her arm in a sling, her features gaunt. 
Bergman, 5-foot-8, had been a magnetic presence on stage where one ofher favorite roles wasJoan of Arc. She once said: "I like the stage better. It's boring to make pictures because they're all cut up into pieces." 
Born in Stockholm on Aug. 29, 1915, the daughter of a struggling photographer, her parents were dead by the time she was 12 and she went to live with an uncle. "I was a very lonely child. I withdrew from younger people, making up my own stories, my own plays," she later recalled. 
Bergman's children were reported on their way to London for the funeral -"a very quiet, family affair," said Alfred Jackman, funeral director at Harrods, the London department store that was handling arrangements. "After cremation her ashes may be taken back to Sweden," he said. 
Bergman summed up her career in a 1968 interview: "I've had ugly moments in life, it is true. But they were never stupid moments, stupid tears. Even sorrows sometimes are 
fortunate." 

... Bombing 
other was a dud, he said. 

The man fired several times in one building, shooting out several win· dows but hitting no one, Pandich said. He then went into an adjacent building and shot two workers, he said. 
Workers in the medical depart· ment saw a man enter the building, and a message was broadcast over loudspeakers telling employees to barricade themselves in their offices, Pandich said. 
King said the man fired on police when they arrived at the building. 
'BEER CANS TO BULLS' 
New Decor tor your
Dorm 
DESIGN WALLPRINTING 

,JTe~iJ.,~··~
l. xr· ~. 
1~~~~-~ 
-··-·:.:::::::_-::..::::::::::::.::-:!.: 
Call now lor 15% discount 232-9174 

**********************************~' 
! lETTUCE SERVE YOU : 
: AT : 
: The HUDDLE :
: . 
: all this week : 
i * Free coffee refills i 
: untill0:30 am : 
: * Soup of the day only 15' i
. .-
• with purchase of any sandwoch 10:30 -2:00am : 
: : 
: * Free Soft drink :
: : 
: with the purchose of sandwich and fries • 4:00 · 8:00 pm 00
. ....-...................._. : 
: The DEll : 
! f I I 7:30am through 11:00 pm :
• ree co es aw . . : 
: with purchase of any dell sandWich. • 
i~*********************************' 
·--_____,.......----~-------------------~
---------------~----------------------------------·-------­
The Observer Tuesday, August 31, 1982 -page 9 

old who can't talk drops hisfrail arm. "Thump!" 
The numbers 2 and 5 prompt other "thumps" on a pressure­sensitive switch and Roger has com­municated a simple message: "I don't know." 
The youth has memorized 1,000 three-digit numbers, eac.~ cor­responding to a word or phrase ­"018" means hello; "194" is friend. Words not included in Roger's vocabulary list are spelled. By drop­ping his arm, he advises friends that his dog's name is "118, 113, 114, 114, 115, 124"-or "Snoopy." 
Dr. David Seyfried, 42, who pioneered the system, figures that a mute handicapped person possess­ing even the tiniest amount ofbodily control can converse through a specifically programmedcomputer. 
"Ifa person can move just one fin­ger or blink an eye, a communica­tion system can be devised," says Seyfried. 
Roger has been afflicted since birth with cerebral palsy, a condi­tion that damaged the part of his brain that controls speech and muscle coordination. He can neither speak nor write. He reads. He under-was imprisoned within himself 
"There was really no way for him to get out the thoughts and the intel­ligence that was locked inside his brain," says Seyfried, who came to the West Central Educational Cooperative Service Unit as a con­sultant for the physically hand­icapped in 1977. His job with the consortium of 41 school districts ended this summer because, he says, the schools were financially pinched. 
In 1980, Roger was the first per­son aided by Seyfried's attempts to use computers as conversational tools for the handicapped. 
Since he was 2, Roger has lived with foster parents, the Harlan Knut­sons of rural Pelican Rapids. Unable 
to  care  for  himself,  he  must  be  
bathed  and  fed,  enterta ined  and  
taught.  

The Head Start program in Pelican Rapids got Roger started at reading when he was 5, before he was en­rolled at Lakeview School, a residen­tial facility in Worthington for children with physical handicaps. There he began using an eye-tran, a translucent board with numbers 0 to 
9. Roger memorized numbers cor­responding to words and then was 
CAMPUS SUBSCRIPTIONS TO 

are now available at a 30't discount rate from single-copy price. (Discount only for weekday paper~) Newspapers are available by 9:00a.m. on the day of publication when classes are in session. Daily discount rate ~s 35¢. 
Sunday papers are available on a subscription basis also, but no discount is 0iven. 
Delivery can be guaranteed for the first day of delivery on September 7 only if payment is received by September 2. Any orders received after September 7 will be prorated according to the number of delivery days left in the term. 
Please mail or drop off the bottom portion of this slip to: 
The Hammes 
Notre Dame Bookstore Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Count me· in for The New York Timesl I will subscribe 5 days 6 days 7 Jays Sunday only 

Fall Term (ends Dt:: Full Year
~ 

Mon-Fri $22. Mon-Fri $47.60 Mon-Sa t $26. Mon-Sat $56.00 Mon-sun ~53 Mon-Sun $116.00 Sun only $27 Sun only $60.00 
Papers will be c 1ble for pickup at the bookstore after 
9:00 a.m. Monaa} )Ugh Saturday. Sunday's paper can be picked up on Mor with Monday's issue. There will be no delivery durit"1y exam week and holidays. 
Name: 
Address: 

Dept.: Phone: 
saw what numbers Roger's eyes focused-upon and, by using Roger's code book, translated them. 

WELCOME! 
------~·orr·--·--, 
any i.an(j€ 0€ep l>lsh SICILian OR 
I 

l..aRCi€ monst€R Pizza I GooO at Cl€V€lan0 RoaO StOR€ I acROss ~ROm umv€RSJty PaRk mau I 277-5300 I on€ coupon P€R p1zza. €XPIR€S S€pt. 12, 1982 I 
••'Noble~IWlll'S-.J
.-•t111)1zza01nll€R ~R With Sc\laO Bc\R

r 
$699 SaV€0V€R $4oo 

I 
I lnclu0€s: OR1nks not 1nclu0€0.1• m€01um0€€p01shSICillan.12"hanO lnSI0£01ntnc;only. tossoo Rouno OR 1o.. monst£R p1zu On£ coupon P£R custom£R 
(yOUR ChOICE or topptnc;S) P€11 VISit cannot B€ Us€0 
• 2 ''CRat£ YOUR own Saiab 8.\Rs With any Oth£11 coupon OR OISCOUnt orr€11. 
(;ooO At Cl£V£lanll R0,\0 stOR€ ACROSS r11om UntV€11SitY PARk mall 
277-~3oo orr€11 (jOOO thJIOuc;h sept.l2.19s2 

--.-'It~~--.. 
--------------------------------------~ 


The Observer Tuesday, August 31, 1.982-page 10 

2nd floor LaFortune 
WELCOME BACK 
I 

I l.'.f4•l•liEWi'J 
Buy One Big Mac, Mcllib, McChicken, or Quarter Pounder sandwich with coupon Get One rree 
Good only at 1 S 19 ll. Ironwood Dr. Exp. Oct. 1 Limit 1 coupon per customer 

(Qn't sleep Qt night? 
make SSinstead! 
The Observer 

is looking fQr assertive, eager to 
learn and fun persons 
(experience not essential) 
work late-night production. 
will train you to become 
DESIGN ASSISTANT, even 
DESIGN EDITOR! 

! 
So ifyou're game, . call mauraat 239-7471 

! ! 

Artin,ll )ri!ily Jlub 
Ii FOOD COCKTAILS ENTERTAINMENT 
ART KNIGHT-OWNER 
WELCOME 


Buy one drink -Get One Free 
Offer good for all mixed drinks and drafts NO or SMC ID required 
Offer expires 
1982 
4609Grape Road Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 
277-8544 

ND/SMC FRIENDS 

XArtio's 
1-------ND Cleveland Rd. 
a contractor for sand it had dug from city property. 
The frrm, J o-Pel Construction and Trucking Co., was an important sub­contractor for Schiavone Construc­tion Co., a New Jersey company where Donovan once was the top financial officer. 
The story continued, gangland style, Aug. 25 when a 31-year-old man was murdered in his car on a 
Bronx street. Hundreds ofwitnesses 
saw three men speed off in a red Pontiac whose license plate number was plainly visible. 
Investigators found two surprises. The victim, Nathan Masselli, had an interest in Jo-Pel. So did his im­prisoned father, who had a nickname ("Billy the Butcher") and a record that indicated he was a member of the Genovese crime family. 
A key link surfaced the next day: both father and son had cooperated with Silverman, who recently had reopened his investigation of reports that Donovan was involved with organized crime during his career at Schiavone. 
Nathan Masselli, who had no criminal record, was the second figure in the Donovan investigation to be murdered. 
In June, Fred Furino, a former Teamsters union official who had been interviewed several times by Silverman, was found shot to death in the trunk ofhiscaron Manhattan's East Side. No suspects have been ar­rested in that case. 
Officials said that when Nathan Masselli was killed, his father, Pel­legrino William Masselli, had been scheduled to testify again by Silver­man in the renewed Donovan in­quiry. Silverman reopened the investigation last month, brJt has not said what prompted the new probe. 
The father had agreed to cooperate in the original investiga­tion after Schiavone officials refused to pay Jo-Pel some $600,000 which Masselli claims it is owed, according to Silverman's report. 
"I'm supposed to go away but I don't have to if I help the govern­ment," Masselli reportedly told raignment as a veteran soldier in the Gambino organized crime family. He had, said District Attorney Mario Merola, "survived a lifetime in a very hazardous occupation." 
Merola succeeded in getting the suspect held without bail pending a hearing Friday. 
Odierno's neighbors on Long Is­land described him as a friendly yet quiet man who gave them vegetables from his garden. 

============================= 
Nader's bookoutlines narrow Reagan vision 
WASHINGTON (AP)-In a 750­page, S24.50 book profiling the Reagan Administration's top 100 of­ficials, Washington gadfly Ralph Nader finds a government ofnarrow vision and little compassion that is "remote from the realities oflife for most Americans." 
Nader said at a news conference yesterday that he was shocked by the "cold-blooded atmosphere" he found when he helped the book's co-authors, Ronald Brownstein and Nina Easton, conduct interviews for "Reagan's Ruling Class." 
He said he found the administra­tion to be callously indifferent to the general welfare and to be intent on producing "a government of General Motors, by DuPont, for Ex­xon." 
Of the 100 officials singled out as most influential, 57 granted inter­views to Nader's colleagues. In those conversations, the writers un­covered some snippets ofnews. 
Housing Secretary Samuel Pierce, asked if he sensed a commitment to civil rights in the Justice Depart­ment, hedged and became "visibly uncomfortable," the book said. 
"It's hard for me to say," Pierce replied. "I don't know, but in time I will know very well .. .I want to watch these things." 
Pierce said he would quit the government if something happened "that I could not absolutely take in my heart." 
Rudolph Giuliani, a former U.S. prosecutor in New York City who now runs the criminal division ofthe 

Carmelgirl settles suit for more Crackerjacks 
CARMEL, Ind. (AP) -A 9-year­"We had sent the coupon and the 
old Carmel girl who didn't get the note of apology to Wendy about 13 
promised toy prize in her Cracker working days after we got a letter of 
Jack box has decided to settle out of complaint from her, but before she 
court after receiving a coupon for a got our letter, the suit was filed" 
free box and a letter ofapology from Garrett said about 16 billion toys 
the candymaker, it was announced have been placed in the boxes of 
yesterday. caramel-coated popcorn and 
Wendy Potasnik sued the Cracker peanuts since 1912. 
Jack Division of Borden Inc. earlier Alan J. Potasnik, Wendy's father, 
this month in Hamilton County said he "sat down with Wendy and 
small claims court. talked to her about going on with 
Betty A. Garrett, a spokeswoman the suit. I told her whenever you 
for Borden at Columbus, Ohio, said settle out ofcoun, it's just as impor­
yesterday the girl and her family tant as suing somebody. When you 
decided to drop the suit. can settle out ofcoun, you shou!~" 
lighted there were 
his murderer's 
Aidala, 
"a retired gentleman" who "did not run be· cause he has nothing to hide." 
"He has nothing to worry about," Aidala said. 
The FBI stressed there was no proof of a link between last wttk's events and the Silverman investiga­tion; nor was there a solid. link be­tween the Masselli and Furino murders. 
Donovan has had no comment on the recent developments. 


Justice Department, suggested in an interview that an Abscam-style un­dercover investigation of d}e New York state legislature would hit pay dirt. 
"Congress really needed that," he said ofAbscam, the. operation which caught some congressmen taking bribes. "And the New York state legislature needs that." He did not elaborate. 
The book said President Reagan's contenton that the Soviet Union en­joys military supremacy over the United States drew no endorsement in interviews conducted with CIA director William Casey, arms negotiator Edward Rowny and Deputy Defense Secretary Frank Carlucci. 
"Some people judge it one way, some people judge it the otherway," Casey said in a two-hour session with the authors. "I don't think you know." 
The book also brought to light an 
incident 10 years ago involving Inte­
rior SecretaryJames Watt. 

In the Nixon Administration, Watt 
ran the Bureau of Outdoor Recrea­
tion and career employee Roy Wood 
was named his special assistant. 
Wood told the authors that it 
became apparent that Watt wanted 
to ease him out. 

Watt summoned him and said, 
"Let's pray about it," Wood said, 
"and down on our knees we went 
. . . We prayed on our knees and I 
could feel that steely knife twisting 
in my backbone." 

Tuesday, August 31, 1982-page 11
Editorials 
Today's education: eueryone's cause for concern 
Max Rafferty, a nationally-syndicated columnist, passed away earlier this year, leaving behind him a world ofcommentary on the many facets of education. His wprld con­sisted of comparison/contrast of school sys­tems, applauding the successful ones, while exposing the dogs. His candor and openness refiected the years Max spent working to dis­cover the interworkings of the educational system in America. 

~­

Gregory Swiercz 
After Class 
My first contact with Max was at the age of 13, when my father shoved an editorial page in my face and told me to read a column by a Max Rafferty explaining the vast differences in the best and worst state educational systems in the nation. Being a Hoosier (long live In­diana) and finding out that my lovely state ranked near the bottom of the list on scholas­tic achievement, I took note of this Rafferty character. tittle did I know his opinions on education would force me to reevaluate my somewhat naive stance concerning the class­room. 
While thinking of a focus for this column, Max Rafferty's many humerous, yet often hard-hitting pieces came to mind What better subject to research -education: an institu­tion that reaches out and touches nearly everyone. 
Max had been sitting on a gold mine by focusing his efforts on education. With such a pervasive subject, he could relate to virtually all ofhis audience. Everyone have or had been in some form of school, or have had children in school at some time, or, the clincher, have paid taxes to support the local public school corporation. No one escapes the wrath when it comes to educating America. Max knew this and zeroed in on this fact. 
Notre Dame will prove to be an interesting case in point when we delve into the nuts and bolts of this University. Being a leading nationally-known institution, it will be fascinating to see exactly where this reputa­tion has received its foundation, and where the educational concrete might be cracked. As Max always accurately pointed out, even the mighty learning institutions have weaknesses. 
Max also 'Yas quick to give ink to recent successes in educational circles. For example, Max admired the astonishing achievement of various alternative teaching schools. While normal school corporations scoffed at the al­ternative ideal, Max waved their banner high by shoving the the doubting faction's noses into the higher achievement test scores. Max always let the reader decide ifthe opposers of the alternative school concept were actually against the alternative school's faults or en­vious ofthe superior results of the alternative school 
Awealth ofissues loom on the horizon that will be directly affecting students here and everywhere. 
A barrel of laughs 
People are constantly asking me, "Who is the man with the most bumor in the Reagan administration?" They are surprised when my response is "Cap" Weinberger, our secretary of Defense. "Cap" says things •with a straight face that make you want to roll on the floor. 

Art Buchwald 
Capital Punishment 
Just the other day he told newspapermen he is for a "protracted nuclear war." He doesn't want one of these hair-trigger wars which last 30 or 40 minutes. "Cap" said he has ordered everyone at the Pentagon to figure not only how to keep a nuclear wargoing, but how to make sure the U.S. wins one when the missiles start fiying. 
Half the people in the Pentagon took "Cap" seriously. But those who knew what a dead­pan comic "Cap" is, just laughed and went back to doing the crossword puzzle. 
The material for "Cap's" "prolonged nuclear war" came out of a routine he did when he first took charge of the Defense Department and came up with a comic routine on "limited nuclear war." 
He tried this one out in front of an armed services committee last year and had everyone in stitches. "Cap," without cracking a smile, said he thought a "llimited nuclear war" with the Soviets was not only feasible, but essential so that U.S. would have time to fight a conventional war. 
Cap said ifwe let the Russians know that we were only gong to fight a "limited nuclear war" then they would agree not to use their big stuff to attack us. 
The only ones who didn't laugh were our NATO allies who figured out if a "limited nuclear war was going to be waged it would be on their turf;'' and even after AI Haig tried to explain to the Europeans "Cap" was only joking, they still didn't find the secretary of Defense's war routine very funny. 
So Cap got his writers together and said, "I think my jokes are losing something in the translation. We're going to have to come up with a new monologue, and throw the 'limited nuclear war' stuffout." 
One ofthe writers said, "I got it! What ifyou just stand up at the microphone and sayyou're no longer for a 'limited nuclear war,' but you've opted for a 'protracted' one instead? Say we're going to build offensive weapons that will make the U.S. prevail no matter what the Russians throw at us." · 
"That's pretty funny,'' Cap said. "Let's work on it. But keep it quiet or johnny Carson will hear about it, and use it on his 'Tonight' Show first." 
The writers all went to work and came up with some memorable lines. 
One was "you show me a secretary of Defense who is not preparing to win a nuclear war, and I'll show you a secretary of Defense who should be impeached." 
Another one which was a real crowd pleaser: When he was asked if a nucelar war was winnable, Cap replied, again with a straight face, "I just don't have any idea; I don't know that anybody has any idea But we're certainly gong to give the armed forces every­thing they need to win one." 
These are just a few samples of"Cap" Wein­berger's humor. They may not sound as funny on paper, but when you see him standing up in front of the mike, looking like Woody Allen," delivering them, you could die laughing. 
The Ob.rerver is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­ed as accurately and as objective~y as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Co.nmentarics, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opimons on ampus, through ldters, ii encounged. 
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46S56 (219) 239-5303 
•Tuition 
tax credits. A bill allowing tuition tax credits is pending before Congress that will give tax credits amounting up to S500 for private educational institutions. The National League of Women Voters, among others, are in direct opposition to this bill, which repor· tedly will cost the federal government nearly S 1 billion if enacted. 

•The 
S.A.T. slide. The slide in college entrance exam scores has educators in a quandry. Universities can and undoubtedly will be affected by the phenomenon, which determines where high school juniors will go 


to collt:~e-~--­

•Rising College costs. What will aspiring students do when the cost ofa college educa­tion exceeds the family's available resources? Northwestern University, for example, has 
. one of the most expensi-ve bills -over $13,000 annually. With last year'~ end to the easily available student loan, it remains to be seen whether any further segregation in the nation's colleges will result. Education will be a constant concern as long as there are people that are here to learn. Max knew the importance ofthis, and devoted his life to telling the real story. 
Thanks, Max. You taught us well. ~ 

As time goes bye in South Bend 
It's too early in the year to get into heavy issues. Let's face it, most of us are more con­cerned with who came back and who didn't, who is in that class, where the good parties are, and when will these lines ever end; however, a South Bend institution disap· peared over the summer. 

Tim Neely 
My Turn 

Anyone who has ever taken Transpo bus number 7/8 to and from Scottsdale Mall or other South Bend points of interest knows that the bus goes into a glorified parking lot downtown called the South Bend Transfer Center. On the northwest comer of Main and jefferson (the intersection where the transfer center is) there is a digital time and tern· perature on the side ofthe First Bank building. Or, rather, there was. This past july the faith­ful clock was removed from the side of the building. 
Anyone who frequented the buses this sum· mer could see it coming. The clock was shut off in june. At first I reasoned that it was af· fected by one of the serious thunderstorms that hit South Bend early this summer, and that it would be a matter of time before it would return to serving the bus-riding South Bend-Mishawaka community. 
four weeks later, however; when it still had 
not resumed operation, I began to grow suspi· cious. Then it happened -the next time I went downtown, it was gone, gone the way of every other-time/temperature sign when First Bank became First Source Bank a couple years ago. 
It's a shame it had to go. First ofall, that sign performed a valuable public service to Transpo riders who don't wear watches. It let transferring riders know how much time they had until their next bus came, and it let non­transferring rid~rs guess ho'!..!_o_!tg_ it m~t take to arrive at the final destination. Because of its location, it was perfect for use as a Transpo guide; in fact, most buses left the transfer center when that clock said it was time to leave. 
Riders with twenty minutes between bus connections (not uncommon) could stop in­to the Burger Chef across the way and grab a snack and know how much time they had to finish in time for their next bus. 
Any downtown South Bend pedestrian who passed by could use it as well. It was easily seen from Michigan A venue and not far from the River Bend Plaza Now the nearest sign performing the same functions as the old First Bank sign is two blocks north on Main, in­visible from the Transpo terminal 
Why did it have to go? Certainly it could not have cost that much to operate. Or was it be· cause the sign did not fit the "new" First Source Bank "image" with those red signs (a..1d no clock)? I know it was the last First Bank building which still had its outdoor digi· tal time/temperature reading. Did it have to join the club? 
Most ofyou know that by dialing 234-7121 you can get the current time and temperature at a moment's notice. Now that First Bank no longer has any road signs stating the time and temperature, how long will it be until they no longer provide it over the phone? I hope that day never comes, but it would not surprise me ifit did. I never thought that the faithful sign at the northwest comer of Main and jefferson, which served South Bend so well all these years, would be removed, either. 
South Bend, on the signs along roads leading into the city, calls itself a "city of growth and progress." (Ofcourse, these signs are shaped like footballs, which tells you about the only economy-stinlulating industry around these parts these days.) This does not mean that there should be change for change's sake. I think First Bank made a mistake by removing that time/temperature sign from its downtown building. A change for the better would be its re-installation. 
l:"tlitor·iii·C:bi,•f..............................Michac:l Monk Managing l:"tlifor ................ Ryan :Vt:r lkrkmot:s l:".watfil'f.' N('ll'S /!tlitor......................... Kdli l'lin1 .\"MC Neu•s /:"tlitor ..................... Marv.arct l'osmot: Sport.~ 1:(/ilor..................... .............Chris Nrt:llks l:"clitoritlls /:"tlitor .............................1-'aul Mt.:< iinn Fetttures 1-."tlitor ...................................Tari Brown l'boto /:"elitor ...................................Kachd Blounl 
Department Managers 
Hu.~ines.~ Manager .............................Tony Aiello Ctmtmller.......................................~ .....Eric Schull. Atlt•ertisin8 Mmutger.......................Chris Owt:n PmtluL"fion Manager.................. Maui"a Murphy Cinultttion Mam1ger ..........................Ray lnglin .~)'Stems Mcm11ger ...........................liruct: Oaklt:y 
Founded November 3, 1966 
Editorial Board 
The Observer Tuesday,August 31
___1_9.::..82:_-page 12 


-----:--------_-----_-------:---'J ~ 
' -!'
The Observer Tuesday, A'!gust 31, 1982-page 13 .) 

WITH OUR BACK·TO·SCHOOL. SPECIALS! 
START THE SCHOOL YEAR OFF RIGHT BY SHOPPING AT FRETTER APPLIANCE FOR ALL YOUR BACK-TO-SCHOOL NEEDS. BIG SAVINGS ON BRAND NAME AUDIO, VIDEO AND 
r:=••• r=1

APPLIANCES. HERE'S JUST A SAMPLE OF THE HUNDREDS OF BARGAINS ON SALE NOW••• 



7 

Bose Spatial Control Receiver and Direct/Reflecting Speakers 
SCR: Select the spatltil properties most appropriate to your music. Choose wide for ltlrge group perfonnancn, naiTOW for small groups or anywhere In between. More like live than ever before. 100 watts/channel from 20-20kHz a~ .09% THO. 
901: Direct/Reflecting speakers are so efficient, they'll handle more volume than you'll ever need with amazing realism and cltirfty of sound. 
•1277~~~... 
Maxell Test Pack Tape Deal Compare XUI-S and UD-XUI 
Two-pack of 90-mln. cauett" with an XUI-S tape aa UD-XLII tape at the price of 2 UD-XLII'a. Teat Pk. Everyday $8.77. 
Savings a--e from 
prices_ 

Sony AM/FM Car Stereo Cassette a 6Yz-lnch 2-Ways XR-55: Puahbuttons, high-output poww amp, Dolby• NR, metal tape capability, locldng faaHorward and rewind. XS-4113: 2-waya with 81h" woot.r a 2" ......-, allm-llne design requ"-only 1 " behind mounting surfece.
s337EVEIIYDAY
LOW ....IO 
Fisher Portable AC/DC Mini Stereo System 

4·band tuner, amp, metal tape capable ca...ne deck and two-way ctet.chable ape.kera. PH-410K. E...-yday $11~9.15. 
5177 

2 smoked gltlaa doors with touch lock release, 2 adjustable shelves, record divider. 1045-STD. Everyday $99.95. 


AMIFM Car Stereo Cassette 
• AudioYOX 5%" Coaxials 
C.2101: Locldng fut torw.dleject, auto. 11op Indicator light, adjuatable shafts. Baltince and tone controls. Audlollox C08C-10: 2-wlly apMk«a with 10-oz. magn«, air SU8pended woot.r • separate 2-4nch ......... 
RCA 12-lnch Diagonal Compact Television 
100% IOIId state for excellent recep­
. tlon, one-set VHF tuning, dual function antenna. AFc-120. E...-yday saus. 
•&9 

RCA XL-100 a-te 13-lnch Dlapnal Color TV 
Electronic tuning, Auto. color control, Xtendedllfe chaaala, Auto. Fine Tun­Ing. EQR-330. ev.ryday Low $319.16. 
5227 

RCA SelectaVision 8-Hour Video Cassette Recorder 
Progremmable 24-hr. electronic clockl­tlmer. Remote jMiuae, tape counter. VFT·190. Everyday Low $549.95. 
s....... 
~ 
1 1 
i 
. ·.~ ij 
i ~ 
. -1 
-
. 
-I 
' 
-
. 
. i -i; 
~ ~ 

~ 
' 
1 
I 
~ 
-ir. 
-l ' 

:·· 
If Our Low_ Prices Can't Get Your Business, What Will? 
·TM~y~atCMM!s 5823 N. Grape Rd. 
(Just south of University Park Mall, South Bend-Mishawaka) 277·2820 
-· 




-----·-~---~------­
The Observer Tuesday, August 3 ~' 1982 -page 14 
I 
1· 
i 
. 

i 
. 


1 . 
! . 

I 
' 
! 
I ~ 
I 
I { t 
I 
I I I 
I 
i 
South Bend Ave. Store Only 1621 South Bend Ave. (NO's closest liquor store)
0 

BACK ·TO SCHOOL SPECIALS 
,.........................................................................................................................................
•'''''''''''''''''''''''''"'''''''''''''''''''''''~''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''ntiiiiiiiiiiiiiiL 
Budweiser 
Old Milwaukee or Reg. orLite


Miller Lite case case 
............................................................................................................................................
................................................................................................................................1111 
.r···B~d;~i;~;···---..............................$8~9....... 
6pack ICase ofQuarts case 
~ 

.................................................................................................................................. 
l•••••••••••••••••••••••"'''""'''''''''''''''''''''''""'''''''''''''''''''''''"''''''''"'''''''''''"'''''""'''''''"""''''"'''r 
BAR STOCKERS 1.75L 
Vodka $7.99 KEG SPECIALS Gin $8.99 Rum $9.99 Bourbon $10.99 Scotch $10.99 ~ Budweiser 
••••••••••••••••••u••••••••••••••••••••••••••n••••••••••••••••••••••••••••u•... ••••''''"'''''''"''''''n••••••••••••••••••ril 
or $29.99 
...............................,...............................,......,__,,,,................. ..................................................................... 
Bud Light

LAB()RDAYAIDS Fighting Irish (750ML) Bourbon Miller or Lite $29.99 
J &8 $9.99 7Crown $5.99 
$7.99 

Wild Turkey 86p $7.99 
I liter 

Finlandia Vodka $8·99 ........................................................................ BoodlesGin $7.99 
tlttlltiiiUIIttllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlttllllltllltlll 

J. Walker Red $9.99 
Lord Calvert

BacardiRum $5.99 Jack Daniels $7.99 Canadian Tan~erayGin $8.99 Jim Beam Bourhon$5.99 
$9.99

CrownRoyal $11.99 1.75 
:

.................................................................................................. ~ ...................................................................... 
Prices good until8/3l/82 only at South Bend Ave. store 
, . .
. . 





--------------------------------~--~--------------------------~--------------~ 
~~()fitS=f=)=f4.==i=e~~~S========~=====================T=u=es=da=y=,A=u=g=us=t=31=,=19=8=2==p=a=~===ts
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Women's tennis tryoutsfor all those interested in joining the Notre Dame varsity team will be held this afternoon at 3:30 at the Courtney Tennis Center. Freshmen are especially encouraged to attend. -The Observer 
Notre Dame baseball Coach Larry Gallo will hold a very important meeting for both returnees from the 1982 baseball team and any new candidates interested in trying out for the team. The meeting will be held this afternoon at 4:30 in the Athletic and Con­vocation Center auditorium. All classes, freshman through senior, are invited to attend and are asked to bring a pen or pencil to the meeting. Returnees from the 1982 team will be asked to stay for a short time after the meeting. -The Observer 
Open tryouts for those interested in joining the Notre Dame women's varsity volleyball team will be held one day only, tomorrow, September 1, from 4 to 6 p.m. in the ACC auxiliary gym­nasium. Head Coach Sandy VanSlager encourages all interested, espe­cially freshmen, to attend. -The Observer 
The Non-Varsity Athletic office has announced 
the first set ofregistration deadlines for the early fall's interhall sports. Beginning today, interested students can sign up to participate in the following sports: interhall tennis (men's and women's singles, and mixed doubles); grad-faculty tennis (men's and women's singles, and mixed doubles); 16-inch softball; and co-ree softball. Deadline for these sign-ups is Tuesday, September 7. Interhall football sign-ups also will take place in the next week, but will be conducted within the individual dormitories. For more information, contact your dorm's athletic commissioner or call the new 24-hour NVA phone line at 239-5100.-The Observer 
Six different publicationsput out by the Univer­
sity ofNotre Dame Sports Information Department received awards at the national conference ofthe College Sports Information Directors of America, which was held in Dallas in early July. The 1981 football guide and football review each received i:op awards, while the soccer guide (3rd place nationally), football programs (4th nationally), bas­ketball pprograms ( 3rd in district competition) and the basketball guide (4th in district) also received recognition. The University's sports publications, under the direction ofsports information director and assistant athletic director Roger Valdiserri, have won 3 7 different awards in the last six years. John Heisler and Karen Croake, assistant sports information directors at the time the guides were published, also participated in the publication program. -The Observer 
Adrian Dantley, Kelly Tripucka and Austin Carr headline a list of 18 former Notre Dame basketball standouts who will be returning to the Athletic and Convocation Center September 18 to participate in the Logan Center Benefit Basketball Game. The game is being organized by Notre Dame assistant basketball coaches Gary Brokaw and John Shumate, both former Irish All-Americans who will play in the game. "It will be a great opportunityfor all ofus to help give something back to the South Bend community and enable local fans to do the same," says Brokaw. Tip-off is set for 1 p.m. on Saturday, Sep­tember 18, just seven hours before Notre Dame opens its 1982 foot­ball season against Michigan at Notre Dame Stadium. Tickets are 56 in the lower arena and 54 for upper arena Tickets are selling fast at Gate 10 ofthe ACC. -The Observer 
By The AssociatedPress 
BASEBALL 
American League 

CLEVELAND -Recalled Jerry Dybzinski and Kevin Rhomberg, in­fielders from Charleston ofthe Inter­national League. 
MILWAUKEE -Recalled Mark 

Brouhard, outfielder, from Van­
couver ofthe Pacific CQast League. 
TORONTO -Designated Ken 

Schrom, pitcher, for assignment, and 
called up Mark Eichhorn, pitcher, 
from Syracuse of the International 
League. 
National League 
ATLANTA-Asked waivers on AI 

Hrabosky, pitcher, and reactivated 
Tommy Boggs, pitcher from the 
disabled list. 
HOUSTON Recalled }.R Richard, Dan Boone, Mark Ross and Zack Paris, pitchers; Bill Doran, in­fielder; Scott Loucks and Larry Ray, outfielders, from Tucson of the Pacific Coast League. 
MONTREAL -Purchased Ken Phelps, first baseman, and Mike Phil­lips infielder, from Wichita of the American Association. Recalled WallaceJohnson, infielder, and Tom Wieghaus, catcher, from Wichita 
PITTSBURGH -Purchased the contracts of Nelson Norman, shortstop; Lee Tunnell, pitcher from Portland ofthe Pacific Coast League, and Rafael Elliard, shortstop from Buffalo ofthe Eastern League. 
Major League Standings 
NJ<TIONAL LEAGUE  Houston 4, New York 2  
Eaat  San Diego 2, Pittsburgh 1, 13 innings  
w  L  Pet.  GB  St. Louis 3, Los Angeles 2  
St. Louis  75  55  .577  Only games scheduled.  
Philadelphia  73  58  .557  2.5  
Montreal  70  61  .534  5.5  
Pittsburgh  69  62  .527  6.5  AMERICAN LEAGUE  
Chicago  58  74  .439  18  Eaat  
New York  50  79  .388  24.5  w  L  
Waat  Milwaukee  76  53  
Atlanta  73  58  .557  Boston  72  58  
Los Angeles  73  59  .553  .5  Baltimore  71  58  
San Diego  68  64  .515  5.5  New York  66  63  
San Francisco  65  66  .496  8  Detroit  65  63  
Houston  62  69  .473  11  Cleveland  61  65  
Cincinnati  50  81  .382  23  Toronto  61  71  
Weat  
Yeaterday'a Raaulta  Kansas City  n  54  
Philadelphia 6, Atlanta 1, 1st game  California  74  56  
Atlanta 11, Philadelphia 9, 12 innings  Chicago  67  62  
Montrea\3, Cincinnati 1  Seattle  62  68  

Oakland  58  74  .439  19.5  
Texas  50  79  .388  26  
Minnesota  47  a::  .362  29.5  
Y.at~y'a RHulta  
Baltimore 6, Toronto 3  
Boston 9, Oakland 7  
Seattle 3, Milwaukee 2, 1 0 innings  
Pet.  GB  Chicago 4, Cleveland 1  
.589  Ne.w York 8, Minnesota 2  
.554  4.5  Kansas City 8, Texas 3  
.550  5  Today'aGamaa  
.512  10  Baltimore (Palmer 1 1-3) atToronto (Leal9-11)  
.508  10.5  Oakland (Kingman 3-10) at Boston (Rainey 6-4),n  
.484  13.5  California (Zahn 14-6) at Detroit (Morris 14-13), n  
.462  16.5  Seattle (Moore 6-1 0) at Milwaukee (Caldwell 12-1 1).  
n  
.588  Cleveland (Barker 1 2-9) at Chicago (Siwy D-0), n  
.569  2.5  New York (Guidry 12-5) at Minnesota (Havens 6-10),  
.519  9  n  
.477  14.5  Texas (Hough 1 1 -1 1) at Kansas City (Black 4-4), n  

Monday' s·sports·Transactions 
FOOTBALL National Football League 

ATLANTA Traded James Mayberry, running back, to Tampa Bay for an undisclosed 1984 draft choice and released Scott Woerner, safety; Scott Norwood, kic~er -~~ Dwight Henninger, nose tackle. 
DENVER -Cut Perry Smith, defensive back; Steve Goetz, punter; Steve Wilson and Alan Blanshan, of­fensive linemen; Chris Hobbs, run­ning back; Calvin Turner and Rod Walden, defensive linemen and Greg Gerken and Dan Skutack, linebackers. 
DETROIT -Cut John Wangler, quarterback; Jacob Burney, Mark Grabowski and Chris Stinger, defensive tackles; Victor Simmons, wide receiver; Bernie Nowotarski, defensive back and placed Danny Wagoner and AI Latimer, defensive backs on the injured reserve list. 
MIAMI -Cut Steve Howell and Mack Boatner, fullbacks; Frank Lock­ett, wide receiver; Eric Cunnin­gham, guard; Steve Clark and Frank Thompson, defensive ends and Robin Fisher. Placed Thomas Tut­son, on injured reserve. 
NEW ORLEANS Traded a future drat choice to the Denver Broncos for Kelvin Clark, offensive · 
tackle. 
NEW YORK GIANTS -Placed Phil Simms, quarterback; Dan lloyd and Johnny Lewis; linebackers, on the injured reserve list. 
NEW YORK JETS -Cut Lonell Phea, wide receiver; Darryl Hem­phill, cornerback; Paul Columbia, tight end; Phil Dams, tackle; Kolas Elion, Tom McConnaughey and Eric Truvillion, wide receivers; Mike McKibben, linebacker; Steve Powell, 
running  back  and Kevin  Sadler,  
guard.  
PHILADELPHIA  Released  

Booker Russell, fullback; Ron In­gram and Jack Steptoe, wide rec~i~rs; __D:lVe Jacobs, kicker; Andre Hines, offensive tackle; Andy Cannavino, linebacker; KC. Keeler, safety; George Gilbert, guard an Buddy Moor, defensive end 
PITTSBURGH -Released Darrell Gissendanner and Pat Snow, wide receivers; Joe Cugliari, defensive tackle; Frank Collins, running back; George. Cooper, linebacker and Woodrow Wilson, cornerback. 
SAN FRANCISCO -Cut Johnny Davis, fullback; Ricky Patton, run­ning back; Archie Reese, defensive tackle; Verlon Redd, safety; Kurt Hout, center and Brad Vassar, linebacker. 
HOCKEY National Hockey League DETROIT -Signed Jimmy Rut­herford, goaltender, to a contract. 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
either in person or through the mail. 
Classifieds 
Man's bicycle, 10-speed, Schwinn Var­BARE WALLS?II Fulll color reproductions MBA needs roommate. Prefer grad. 
sity, excellent condition, $80-232-0839. of over 100 master artiSts WYETH,Close to NO. 1011 Notre D~me Ave. 
ROUSSEAU, MATISSE, LAUTREC, 1978 Yellow MG Midget convertible. New ETC.) for sale--THIS WEEK ONLY­
PERSONALS

~-NO_T_IC_ES~''~_F_O_R_RE_N_T~ 
ATTN CHAMPIONS players-now for­top luggage rack, racing stripes, AM-FM Lafortune Lobby;9am-4:30pm;thruming campaign, play times to be decided. 
Stereo Radio-Tape Deck. 12,000 miles. Friday ONLY! 
Contact K.C. 1049 ... GMs welcome! 
Stored in Winter. Mint condition. $5000. Latest 2400 fashionable productsll Mature student can share large home with 277-3336 FINANCIAL AtOll We guarantee to find FREAK OUTI Own your own SalavadOr Save/make 35 percentII Send S.A.S.E. to 2 others. Laundry, TV, stereo, utensils scholarships, grants you're eligible to ·Dali print for $3 (3 for only $7). 7 different 
and more. $150/mo. plus $100 deposit. 9 for sale receive. Application materials -$1 .00. in stock. Art Print Sale;LaFottune 65270. month lease. Call Ted 232-5843 -leave couches $35 up Financial Aid Finder, Box 1053-CO, fair­Lobby:9am-4:30pm; thru Friday onlyl11 Catalog, Box 495-C23, Moberly, Mo. 
FOR SALE 
name and number is I am not available. chairs $5 up field, lA 52556. 
free delivery to dorm THIS AD IS NOT FOR FRESHMEN! FURNISHED HOUSE, TWO BLOCKS call mrs cooper 272-3004 Picasso-Monet-Degas-Chagall They would not remember ANYTHING FROM N.D. AND COUNTRY HOUSE 10 Art prints at 2 cents per square inch!!! Dali-Van Gogh-Wyeth-Renoir about that semi-amusing comic stripIMPROVE YOUR GRADES! Research MINUTES FROM N.D. CALL 277-3604. 8,000 in stock of 100 master artiSts--don't Stereo Equipment Breugei-Shahn-Rembrandt which cursed the pages of The Observercatalog -306 pages -10,278 topics-Rush miss out! LaFortune Lobby;9am-4:30pm: All top brands at low prices from a student Gauguin-Rousseau-Vermeer forthe last 5 years. But for those who do ... 
$1.00 to Box 25097C, Los Angeles, Share a house at 605 N. St. Peter, com­thru Friday OnlyII rep. on campus. Why pay for a Put them on your wall!! 22"X28" prints at MOLARITY UVES
90025. (213) 4n-8226. pletely furnished. Room for four more. showroom? save $$$$ Bose,Nikko,HK an unbelievable 3 for only $7! Beautiful The third an nnal bOok, Molarity: No Drop by house or call288-3942 after 5. COUPON Booklet.Many restaurants and Genesis many morel Get the stereo works of artists at a price even you can Outlet is available now at a campus entertainment places in this area Only you've always wanted nowl call J.B. late afford! Dont miss out! LaFortune Lobby bookstore near YOU! (Brought to you by Dirty Walls? Clean up your act w~h really Furnished 2-bedroom Apt., $250/month $19.95. Valued $1,000.00. Call Nancy pmat8286 9am-4:30pm; thru Friday only! Buy the Book Press -the last word in 
includes all utilities, CLEAN, newly 674-6239. fly-by-night publishers.) 
fine art prints by really fine artists. Over remodeled. Convenient location 7638,000,prints in stock. Get 3 large prints for TURTLE, HERE I GO AGAIN. Rabbit
L.W.E. -just off of Eddy St. ramp. 233-BOOKS FOR SALE: THE SOUTH BEND MARRIOTT has tem­only $7. Yes, its amazing\! Today thru 
8388. FOR COURSES: GOVT 342, porary openings in ~s dining room and Don't delay! COMPARATIVE-GOV'T 341, INT'L cocktail lounge for waiters/waitresses. HFriday, Lafortune Lobby, 9am-4:30pm. 
Hi Animal! 
TICKETS 

RELATIONS GOV'T 141, INT'L interested, call Connie in Personnel 234­RELATIONS-ENG 386, MAJOR BARE WALL BLUES?? We cure 2000. AMERICAN WRITERS-ACCT 261, W;;;;t~ ·~· =ether them ... the doctor is in! The art print sale 
··c;·iw~··o=t;c:ic"'k-:oet""s~tog' for COME TO THE KEENAN USED BOOK WANTED BASIC ACCT-HIST 301, DOMINATION NO/Michigan football game. Will pay will put a smile on your face and leave SOCCER -Need experienced players SALEII! We have used books for great ANDDEP. cash or swap for one pair ol this year's bucks in your wallet. Don't suffer need­(preferably grad students) for local men's prices. Featuring many freshman books. Michigan home games. Call 313-464-lessly! See us today for your custom league. Call2n-4482 between 6 an~ 10_ 
p.m. "'!!!Ii __

Sale will be held in Keenan lobby outside Part-time employee wanted to put up pos­BOOKS NEEDED FOR COURSES: 0600 days or 313-487-4502 n~es, ask for prescriptionI Lafortune Lobby ;9am­chapel from 5to 7thru Friday. Avoid those ters on campus now and during 1982·83. PHILO 222, EXISTENTIAL THEMES­Ivan. 4:30pm:thru Friday Only! high prices at the bookstore and take a 2-10 hrs/mo., $4.50/hr. Send ~ SPANISH 101,-GOV'T 343. POLITICAL Welcome Back Jeff Herrington 111!1 took at our selection. address, phone no., class yr., etc. to Mr. THEORY-GOVT 340, AMERICAN Will dO ANYTHINGII(short of breaking Bring a friend and enjoy the scenery! Art When is the big party? I promlae not to 
Fenton, 152 Temple St., no. 701, N­GOVT-THEO 319, WORLD RELIGIONS PARIET ALS) for Mich. Tix. G.A. or Stud. Print Sale--Lafortune Lobby;9am-mlaaltllli-~~~·~arid is waiting tor DOME MAN Haven, CT 06510. CALL CHRIS AT 283-3510 ANYTIME. MONEY NO OBJECT Tom 1578 4:30pm~hru Friday only!ll Marilyn 
The Observer-Sports Tuesday, August 31, 1982-page 16 
Irish baseball players succeed in summer 

Martina Navatilova is the top woman seed in the U.S. Open Tennis Championships, which open 
Two members ofthe Notre Dame baseball team starred over the sum­mer in the NCAA-sanctioned Cape Cod Baseball League in Massachu· setts. 
Senior Rick Chryst, captain-elect for the 1983 Fighting Irish, finished fifth in the league in hitting with a .353 average. Chryst, who hails from Platteville, Wis., also drove in 25 runs. 
Teammate Steve Whitmyer posted a 2-0 record and a fine 2.77 


Rick Chryst 


Follow the FIGHTING IRISH in their drive for a national championship ... GO IRISH! will feature coach Gerry Faust and his players in his se· cond season under the Golden Dome! Don't miss an issue. Subscribe now for our second 

big year only $19.95 ·· 28 action packed pages' Call (219) 277·5448 and we'll take your order right over the phone via Master Card/Visa at once! 
COMPLETE COVERAGE OF NOTRE DAME FIGHTING IRISH FOOTBALL 
All the action packed excitement of Notre Dame football now available with a subscription to GO IRISH! You'll get complete Notre Dame football coverage with loads of photos--20 times a year--11 weekly issues during the season and 9 monthly issues during off season. You receive • game stories with photos • full statistics • opponent scouting reports • game analysis • inside interviews • recruiting updates • features on ND All-Americans, great games, Irish in the pros and more. No other publication covers the Fighting Irish like we do! A one year subscrip­tion is yours for only $19.95. Purchased on the newsstand you'd pay $30.00. You save 34%. A percentage of all subscription proceeds is donated to the Notre Dame Athletic Endowment Fund. 
UNCONDITIONAL MONEY BACK GUARANTEE: We'll refund your money any time you tell us you're not satisfied w1th our publication·· NaOuestions Asked. 

........... .... ...................... ······ .. . 
I enclose $f9:95. Start my subscription to GO IRISH! immediately. (20 issues). 
Name 
Address 

I enclose $19.95. Start my subscription to GO IRISH! immediately. (20 issues). 
Name 
Address 

ERA for the Cotuit Kettleers, who 
were coached by ND baseball Coach 
Larry Gallo, a native of nearby 
Providence, RI. --The .team-finished second in the 
league with a 24-16-2 record, and 
wasdefeated in the semi-finals ofthe 
league playoffs . 

The Cape Cod Baseball League is 
considered to be the best summer 
league for college players in the 
United States, and is partially sub· 
sidized by Major League Baseball. 
In other summer baseball notes: 
•The 
Notre Dame baseball team finished tied for 12th in the nation in fielding percentage for Division I during the 1982 springseason with a .963 mark. 

•Tom 
Conlin, a junior from Mt. Prospect, Ill., finished the 1982 season with an impressive 0.85 ERA. Conlin, for much of the season, led the nation in ERA. 

•Dan 
Szajko, a four-year letter­man from South Bend, signed with the Montreal Expo organization following the June, 1982, major league draft, and played Class A ball in Jamestown, N.Y., this past sum­mer. Szajko was the 8th toughest man to strike out in the country last season, whiffing only four times in 140 at-bats. -The Observer 


... Campus 
continuedfrom page 17 

Dame, since phys ed is a required part of the freshman curriculum (except ROTC students). Petro was appointed to her present position a year ago, but she certainly is no stranger to the Notre Dame com­munity. Like Hotvedt, she also did graduate work at EMU, earning her master's in 1976. Beginning her sixth year at Notre Dame, Petro served as women's tennis coach during the 1977 and '78 seasons before deciding to devote herself full-time to her basketball coaching duties. She had been serving double duty for two years. After the basket· ball team was elevated to Division I status, Petro left the ACC and returned to the Courtney Courts to coach tennis once again. 
Erin Murphy -In her third year at Saint Mary's, Murphy serves as director ofinhletics and recreation. A graduate of Lewis University in Joliet, Ill., she has served as assistant director of athletics and recreation and volleyball coach for SMC since 1979. Along with supervision of the college's intramural, club and var­sity programs, Murphy continues her volleyball coaching duties. . Murphy plans "to refine and perfect the programs that we have now~ 
three levels. I want the community 
to take advantage ofthe facilities and 
programs we have available," and 
wants SMC's Angela Athletic Facility 
to be used for recreation and leisure 
as well as competitive sports. 

Timothy J. Dillon -With 
degrees from Slippery Rock State 
College, and Eastern Kentucky Uni· 
versity and experience as a Division 
I gymnastics coach at EKU, Dillon 
views athletics "as a part of educa· 
tion." Dillon is the assistant director 
of athletics and recreation for SMC 
under Murphy. Dillon will work to 
"get some unity through the whole 
community and get the program to a 
point where it's recognized by Saint 
Mary's College as a useiui pii.."1 cfthe 
college curriculum." 

The Observer-Sports Tuesday, August 31, 1982-page 17 
Campus Sports Administrators 
Rev. Edmund P.Joyce, C.S.C. ­A 1937 Notre Dame graduate, Fr. Joyce was appointed executive vice president of the University in 1952, just three years after his ordination. As Chairman of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics, joyce main­tains, "First things come first, and the first thing for us are academics. I tell every squad of athletes that when the students return to campus each fall." 
Gene Corrigan Since succeeding the legendary Moose Krause as athletic director in 1981, Corrigan already has made his prese'l'lce felt. He has been in­strumental in the planning and or­ganization ofNotre Dame's frrst-ever athletic endowment fund, which will increase opportunities for all Notre Dame students at all levels of competition. Corrigan also is credited with the introduction of two new varsity sports -lacrosse and women's swimming -in his first full year as athletic director. Before coming to Notre Dame, Cor­rigan was responsible for the rapid growth ofthe athletic department at the University ofVirginia during his 
nine years  as  director  o~thletic  
.Programs.  
•  


Gene Corrigan 

Edward W. "Moose" Krause­Tacking the word "emeritus" onto the title he owned for 31 years hasn't c~nged this cigar-smoking, story­
tellingaamiiustrator one-6ic-As ati:i:­letic director emeritus, Krause continues to be an integral part of the Fighting Irish as he has been for over half a century. Now 69, Krause played for Knute Rockne in 1930 and was a regular tackle during the 
.1931, '32 and '33 campaigns. Notre Dame's first two-sport All-American, Krause was honored not only for his gridiron excellence, but as a basket­ball center as well. He was so dominant in the middle that basket­ball's three-second rule was adopted to control him. At present, Krause is quite active in fund-raising activities for the Unive-rsity athletic endow­ment fund. 
Col. John Stephens -He used to call himself, "Moose's office boy," but as associate athletic director, Jack Stephens is far more than that. 
~er graduating from the the Uni­
versity of Iowa, Stephens received;~ 
master's degree in guidance 
counseling from Notre Dame. 
Following his voluntary retirement 
as commanding officer of the Uni­
versity's Army ROTC unit in 1968, 
"The Colonel" was named assistant 

athletic director and assumed his 
present position in 1976. He also 

serves as a director of the Walter 
Camp Football Foundation. 

Col.john Stephens 
Joseph O'Brien -A 1949 Notre Dame graduate, O'Brien is begin­ning his seventh year as assistant ath­letic director and the department's business manager. In 1955 he became director of personnel func­tions at South Bend's second largest employer-the University ofNotre Dame. He has been here ever since. 

joseph O'Brien 

Steve Orsini -Orsini returned to his alma mater in 1981 to assume the position or ucket and promotion manager after three years as a cer­tified public accountant. "Ors" served as specialty team captain on Dan Devine's 1977 national cham­pionship team. and earned three monograms in his playing career at NO. 
-Roger Valdiserri -Following his 1954 graduation from Notre Dame, Valdiserri served briefly as an administrative assistant to Fighting Irish head football coach Terry Brennan. In 1966, after public rela­tions stints at Mercedes-Benz and the Kansas City Chiefs, he returned to his alma mater to betome sports information director and ten years later added assistant athletic die­tor to his duties. Regarded as one of the best in his field, Valdiserri has received 3 7 awards over the past six years from the College Sports In­formation Directors of America for his sports publications, many regl!Ided as the best in the nation. 

Roger Valdiserri 

Dr. Tom Kelly -As director of non-varsity athletics,' Kelly oversees one of the nation's most extensive intramural programs for a university the size of Notre Dame. Since there are no fraternities or sororities here, dorm life and its accompanying spirit fill the bill, and this enthusiasm is often seen in interhall competi­tion. Kelly received his masters de­gree in physical education from 
'"' Penn State and his masters and Ph. D. in Educational Administration from Notre Dame. After II years as NVA's 
assistant director, Kelly was 
elevated to his present post in the spring of 1979. Kelly also served as Notre Dame's basteball coachfor five seasons before committing himself full-time to the NVA office following the 1980 campaign. 
. admitting women,"Hotvedt has over­seen the program's growth from its infancy. Currently, Irish women ath­letes in a number ofsports compete at varying levels of competition, including several in Division I. A 1969 Eastern Michigan graduate, Hotvedt received her master's de-:­gree from EMU in 1972. She then served as women's gymnastics coach at Illinois before coming to Notre Dame. 
Sharon Petro -The chairman of the physical educ:ttion department 
·· Astrid Hotvedt -Since becom-is always one of the first faces an ing coordinator of women's ath-incoming freshman sees at Notre letics at Notre Dame in 1974, just two years after the University began See CAMPUS, page 16 
SURPLUS EQUIPMENT 
e 58 Wood Wine Racks--6ft. high 3ft. wide 
3or 4 shelves Use for Book case or storage. e 6 Printing Calculators e 3 Desks --metal or wood e 50 Beer & Liquor Signs e ·4-Drawer File Cabinet 
$75each $15each $50 each $3to$10 $75 

e1 Smith Corona manual Typewriter $40 

Warehouse Liquors 
corner Ironwood & Lincoln way East 
llr,--------287-2861-------·~ 

{INCLUDES KEG OF BEER, TAP, 50 cups, ICE, BAG & SALES TAX)* 
Your Choice BUDWEISER, BUDLIGHT, BUSCH, NATURAL, STROH'S 

The BeerCo. 
287-1067 
Daily 8:30-4:30 Sat.10-12 
(NEW CONVENIENT HOURS) 
-


Michelob/Mich Light $45.00 Heineken $68.00 
*(Does not include any deposit charges) 
Steve Orsini 

-. 
The Observer -Sports Tuesday, August 31, 1982-page 18.. 
Rozelle guilty ofbribery 
The comissioner of all football, the Honorable Alvin Ray "Pete" Rozelle, has told the Congress ofthe United · 
States, described by Ambrose Bierce as a body of men 
jUD Murray

who go to the Capital of their country in order to in­crease their own, that he will not support any anti-trust legislation unless it be retroactive and block the moving --~-""--------:-13_7e-s"'""t""o"'t:-J~im~--M==--:-u-r_r_a_y_
_ 

of a franchise from one city to another from this day iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
backward. ·z Fair enough. L.A. will not now need the Oakland · got r'eague pefm1ssu)n -for his-move. Anyone who was Raiders. We'll get the Rams bac. Or, on second thought, around him knows Carrol didn't give a fig for league maybe Cleveland will get them back. Does Chicago permission or approval from a commissioner who now get the Cardinals; Boston, the Redskins; New York owed his job to him. Rosenbloom got permission after State, the Giants; Detroit, the Lions? Maybe L.A. will get the fact. the Chargers back. Gene Klein would love that. The After visiting this indignity upon LA., shrugging its Kansas Cit5' Chiefs would have to go back to Dallas, the shoulders as it lost its franchise, the league next stepped Baltimore Colts willl have to go back to a bus reading in when LA., like any license landlord protected by the "Have Team, Will Travel." Constitution, went out and got itself a new tenant. After The headlines read: "Rozelle Warns Congress." all, the bond holders had to be paid. In a classic piece of Warns them of what? That the NFL owners under his chutzpah, the league and commissioner told them no. control will stop contributing thousands of dollars to 'When someone asked in a press conference at Super the campaign chests ofselected senators? That he'll take Bowl XV if L.A. would get an expansion franchise, the his football and go home? Won't expand into favorite commissioner murmured something about "the locations ofthe Congressmen unless he gets the exemp-owners" being unwilling to reward "rulebreakers." Ob­tion he wants? servers took this to mean L.A. would get an expansion Somewhere, J.P. Morgan and John D. Rockefeller franchise over the commissioner's dead body. Boom­must be watching this with morbid fascination. Here's a towns, like Rutherford, N.J., were more deserving. stunt they never thought of. Pro football has some kind LA. took no legal steps to block the departure of the ofasacred right to operate in violation ofanti-trust laws Rams. For one reason, they got no encouragement or that Standard Oil or General Motors never considered. help from the league to do so. But did Oakland get en­Rozelle is saying, in effect, "Restrain trade or, by God, couragement and help? Legal aid? Financial input? The no more new franchises." The threat is velvet-glove. entire might of the NFL? You better believe it. Several With Pete, it usually is. "The teague will not consider million dollars worth, to date. If the league spent the expansion in this uncertain climate," he says piously, money and energy and man hours to keep the Rams "where we cannot assure a team will stay in the city here that they spent to keep the Raiders there, the Rams chosen." would probably still be here. Pete also denied he was "dangling" franchises in front Rozelle, who got his nose bloodied in every court ofpotential Congressional supporters. Well, this repor-he's been in on this matter, has really taken the case to ter has personally heard him in press conferences admit the highest court he can -the Congress. You know the league was "considering" sites from Indianapolis, to how Congressmen are. Promise them a dam, and they'll Phoenix, to Memphis, tojacksonville, to Birmingham. If vote for anything. Promise them a pro football that's not "dangling," it will do. franchise, and they'll tear up the Constitution. Why should Pete Rozelle be able to restrain trade? What Rozelle proposes to do with his insistence on Not even Charlie Schwab, Andrew Carnegie or retroactivity in franchise shifts is to change the rules. Diamond Jim Brady could do that. Ford Motor Co., Unless he words it carefully, the game will have to go which employs hundreds ofthousands more Americans back east of the Mississippi where it was 'til the than the NFL does, cannot stop even German and Cleveland Rams broke free. japanese "carpetbaggers" from entering their market. You can change the rules in football. One year, it's Hell, we can't even stop illegal aliens. okay for interior linemen to go downfield under a punt, 


.._"'? 
The reality of the situation is, the league, aka. Pete the next year, it's not. But you can't change the rules Rozelle, let the "Los Angeles Rams" move out of town retroactively. That would mean you have to go back without a court fight. The league left the nation's through the charts oflast year's games (or games offive second most important market without a franchise. The years ago) and change the results. league let the Lions move out oftown, the Cardinals and The commissioner is powerful. A $2 billion TV con-Giants move out of state, and, when the Minnesota tract gives you a lot ofpower with a body ofmen, some Vikings threatened to leave Minneapolis-St. Paul unless of whom have proved susceptible to FBI men in bed-they got a domed stadium, the league supported them. sheets, posing as Arab sheiks. But, changing the rules in 
The league permitted the loss to L.A., a community the middle ofa game is something not even a Congress-which had taken the Cleveland Rams in from the cold in men can do without holding his nose. It doesn't matter 1946 and housed them in a tax-supported structure for whether you do it for a franchise or a satchel full ofoil three decades, and helped them to grow from a waifon money. It's called taking a bribe. Franchise-scam. the doorstep to a multi-million dollar corporation in a Football-gate. multi-billion dollar business. You can believe, if you want, the fiction that Rams owner Carrol Rosenbloom CopyrightLos Angeles Times 
----------~-···------------------------.
CLUB AND ORGANIZATION 
Richard returns
-
to Houston Astros

PRESIDENTS 
HOUSTON (AP) -J.R. Richard, Sept. 1, the Astros announced. continuing a comeback from a near-
Please stop in Student Activities Office 
fatal stroke in 1980, was recalled by 
Richard started the season with
Houston yesterday after compiling 
the Class A Daytona Beach team 
an 0-2 record and I4.95 earned run 
where he posted a 3-0 record and 19
average with the Astros Tucson
1st Floor LaFortune, by this Friday, 
strikeouts in 33 innings. The former
team ofthe Pacific Coast League. 
major league strikeout artist yielded 31 hits, 39 runs, walked 27 batters and struck out nine during his stint
September 3, 5:00PM. 
Richard was among seven players 
with Tucson. added to the Astros roster effective 


r ............................................... 
• ~ •
i ND ACTIVITIES NIGHT i 
: i
: Monday, September6, 7p.m. to llp.m. i 
f Allclubs andorganizationswanting a table ii must sign, up by Friday, September 3, 4: 30 p.m. i 
The right-hander reported to spring training with the Astros this year but started the season in the Florida rookie league and then reported to Daytona Beach. 
Also Jommg the Astros are pitchers Dan Boone, Mark Ross and Zack Paris, infielder Bill Doran and outfielders Scott Loucks and Larry 
Ray. 
Loucks and Ray will join the 
Astros in Philadelphia while Richard ­
and the other players will join the 
Astros in Houston Sept. 6. 
~ L..............~:.~;;.~;.:~...........J 

The Observer -Sports Tuesday, August 31, 1982 -page 19 




Astros trade Sutton to Brewers 
NEW YORK (AP)-Righthander Don Sutton, unhappy with the Hous­ton Astros, was traded to the Mil­waukee Brewers for three undisclosed minor league players, the Astros announced during their game with the New York Mets last night. 
Sutton, who has a 13-8 mark and 253 careeer victories, was scheduled to start last night's game but was scratched about 30-minutes before gametime with the flu, the Astros said. 
Brewers General Manager Harry Dalton said in Milwaukee that the teams knew the identity of the minor league prospects but would 

lluir f)(•\i,CII\ '"' t/1(• a•,un· 
·\fan ami h'mnon 
EDISON AT IFKJNWCXX) IN SCX tTH BEf.CJ 

WE WOULD LIKE TO WELCOME 
CHERIE JOHNSON 
TO OUR SALON 
',.,lfJJif'ro•,ofll>llllllt•iolo 

Cherie's September Spectal 
Sh~:.;;;~& H~lrcut for 2. . . . . . . 0 N l Y S10 
BRING A FRIEND! 
SAU-'-1 9·30-82 
234-6767 

'· 
STUFF FOR STUDENTS 
LUMBER HARDWARE FURNITURE 
2 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME 

HARDWARE HomE CENTER Ace.
FREEDELIVERYWILLBEMADETO ONELOCATION.ONEDAYOFTHEWEEK ON PURCHASES OF $50 OR MORE. .• PURCHASES LESS THAN $50 WILL BE SUBJECT TO A $5 DELIVERY CHARGE • 1801 SOUTH BEND AVE. (SR. 23) ALLDELIVEREDITEMSMUSTBEPAIDINADVANCE·. --,-·---.fl"'­
WE DELIVER!! 
CO-RK SQUARES 
Quick, easy board 
4.99 

PARTICLE BOARD 

REGULAR PRICE SALEPRICE B"x 16" 17.99 14.99 16"x 16" 19.99 
15.99 8"x32" 26.99 
21.59 16"x 32" 31.99 25.59 24"x 24" 31.99 25.59 24"x 32" 35.99 28.99
1"x12"x6' 4.99 2.49 1"x12"x8' 6.79 2.99 
~ 
Module 


It's a table, it's a wall, it's what you want it to be. Easily. 

Create your own modular shelving units with Hagerwood Knockdown Shelving Units. Ideal for stereos, bookshelves, dividers. Simple to assemble, simple to disassemble. 
SIZE 

not disclose them until a later date. 
Sutton, 37, has appeared in 27 games this season, compiling a 3.00 earned run average. He has a 253­192 lifetime mark. 
The trade came as a surprise to the pitcher's wife, Pat, who at•ended Shea Stadium to watch her husband pitch, but Dalton said the two clubs '" had been working on the deal for over a month. 
"He has experience and is a totally professional pitcher," Dalton said. "He still has very gooa stuff and an excellent knowledge Qfpitching. He has taken his turn consistently throughout his career and will fit right in with our rotation." 

CHERIE'S HOURS: 
Tues. 8:30-5:30 Thurs. 1:00-8:30 Sat. 8:00-4:00 
! 

j 
J 

l 
l 

"YOUR COMPLETE HARDWARE AND BUILDING MATERIALS GENTER" DELIVERYJJ,~E:~6~~5. . > ~~ 2 
-


------~~ -----~---~-~----~--­
The Observer -Sports Tuesday, August 31, 1982 -page 20 
U.S. Open 

McEnroe seeks fourth straight 
NEW YORK (AP) -The 1982 
U.S. Open Tennis Championships begin a two-week run today with John McEnroe and Martina Nav­ratilova, as favorites, trying to fight 
·Off254 other players. 
"The bottom line is you have to play well to win the tournament and you have to beat the top guys," McEnroe said of the 128-man field he heads as he attempts to win his . fourth consecutive U.S. Open title, a ' feat that has not been accomplished · since Bill Tilden won five straight

john Heisler(left) andEddie White have assumed newpositions in the Notre Dame Sports Information Department. See story below. 
-· 

weLcome sack 
sttioents 

LET US SHOW YOU THE WORLD! 
•  ~o_IJ!Puterlzed Aitllne Resetvations  
e  Amttack Tickets  
•  United Limo Tickets to Chicago  
e  Touts and Ctuises  

e ·No Chatge tot Our Setvices · e ffiajot ·ctedit Catds Accepted 
Badin Hall 
~source 
239-7080 
New Library Office 239-6682 
•Travel 

First Source Center South Bend, IN LeMans Hall 236-2656 284-5606 
,.......................,..,..,.....................~..............................................................................-~ ~ 
1CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS!! 1 
I ACTIVITY Fff FUNDING
I 
~ Applications 
~ for receiving Student Activity Fee Funds i ~ are now available in Student Activities Office ~ 
I !
1st Floor Lafortune. 
~ ~ ~ ~ . ~ 
~ ~~! . I
I Deadline for applying is Wednesday, September 15. · _! 
............................................................................................................................................................ 

---------------------------------------------------------------------· 
8·5 Mon.·Sat. 
219·283·4395
Badin Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 

University of Notre Dame 
(Evenings by Appointment) 
UNIVERSITY HAIR STYLISTS 
FULL SERVICE UNISEX CENTER 
---------HAIR CUTTING SPECIALISTS-------­
Our master ~t!·lists h.-ve the up•to·dclt.: and c:onventional styles icr the men and women of the Notre Dame ar.:d Saint Mary's c:ampuses. 
Let us take c~re of all your hair care needs. 
We .>lsc have .a iull h~>, o'i r, tail h<1i1 products and are located on .:.>m.,J" ~ for your convt>_;•.ience. 
·--------------------------------------------------------------------· 
during the early 1920s. 
Navratilova, who dominated the women's competition this year, win­ning 64 of 65 matches, won accep­tance from the crowd at the National Tennis Center when she lost in the final to Tracy Austin. This year, she is after the only Grand Slam title that escaped her. 
The world's richest tournament, America's premier tennis event will distribute more than S1.5 million in prize money, with the winners ofthe men's and women's singles titles collecting 590,000 each. That's an increase from the 566,000 first­place prize last year and the 539,000 each received in 1979. 
Eighteen-year-old Mats Wilander ofSweden, the winner ofthe French Open in June, kicks off the tourna· ment today, when he meets Bill Scanlon on center court in the Louis Armstrong Stadium. Wilander is seeded 11th in the strongest men's field assembled this year. 
.. .. 
I 
~ ~
! 

Among others playing first-round matches today are third-seeded Ivan Lendl of Czechoslovakia, No. 9 Yan­nick Noah of France, No. 10 Johan Kriek of South Africa and No. 14 Brian Teacher. 
Austin, the third seed, is the top woman to see action on the first day, meeting -Catherine Tanvier of France in the featured night match. 
Other top women seeds playing today include No. 1 0 Barbara Potter, No. 11 MimaJausovec ofYugoslavia and No. 12 Billie Jean King, a four­time champion who at age 38 was a surprise semifinalist at Wimbledon in July. 
McEnroe is the men's top seed be­cause he is ranked No. 1 in the world on the Association of Tennis Profes­sionals computer. But even he ad­mits he has had, for him, an off year since beating Sweden's Bjorn Borg 
Position changes atSportsIflfo. office 
Over the summer, the Notre review. Dame sports information depart· In another move, Eddie White, ment announced two position sports information director the last changes within its ranks. two years at Wilkes College in 
John Heisler, an assistant sports Wilkes-Barre, Pa., has been named information director the last four assistant sports information direc­years, has been promoted to the post tor. of associate sports information White, 24, is a 1980 Wilkes director. graduate and assumed the SID posi­
The 27-year-old Heisler has tion there following his graduation. 
edited a variety of award-winning He also served as vice president of publications during his four years as the Middle Atlantic Conference top assistant to assistant athletic Sports Information Directors As­director and sports information sociation. director Roger 0. Valdiserri. Eight of White replaces Karen Croake, those publications were judged best who resigned to accept a position as in the nation, including the 1981 public information director at Saint football guide and the '81 football Mary's College. -The Observer 
•····•·•········••·•·········•·····••·•·•••••········•••·•··••·•····.
. CogLmo'~ilia ill COeglgtl •.:i
.
18461 St. Rd. 23 South Bend .
.
.
callfor appoimment 277-1875 .
. 
Shampoo, Conditioner, Cut Style NDSpecial Guys-$7.00 (re~. J3.u0) Giris-$/O.OO(re.~. 18.00) 
Co~Designers Only ask for Nita or Jeff 
. .
...................................................................... 
~-------------------------,
I WELCOME BACK 
I STUDENTS 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 

I 
I 
I 

I WAREHOUSE 
I· SMC ' t ND FURNITURE I ~ ~ &
I ~ ~ APPLIANCES! 
I EWINGAVHNU.E s ST I
1 2511 . MAIN . S.B. I 1 E3 >< 233-5300 1
1\ ~ ~ HOURS: I 
~ M-F 1 0-8 
ISJ ~ __J____________ J
L__!_~ ~r~~! 

in the final here at Flushing Meadow a year ago. 
Navratilova, a native of Czecho­slovakia who became a United States citizen last year, said she yearns for a 
U.S. Open title. 
"My career won't be complete without winning the U.S. Open. That's the big one." 
Despite her dominance this year, Navratilova doesn't have a "lock" on the title. Besides Austin, who also beat her in the final of the Toyota Championships in December, there's second-seeded Chris Evert Uoyd, who can be forgiven if she acts as ifthe U.S. Open crown is her personal tiara. 
Uoyd has won the title five times and appeared in six consecutive finals, her only loss coming in 1979 to Austin. 


--~-~­
The Observer-Sports Tuesday, August 31, 1982 -page 21 

• • .Roundup 
continuedfrom page 22 to the plate. in a -triumph over Montreal last Wednesday, carried a similar lead 
two innings for his first win of the Expos 3, Reds 1 until the Expos' uprising in the season against four losses. Dave 
seventh. 
Smith pitched the final two frames for his 1Oth save. MONTREAL (AP) -Tim Raines Gary Carter and Tim Wallach The Mets took a 1-0 lead in the delivered a two-out, run-scoring opened with doubles to produce the 
first inning off Mike LaCoss. Mookie single to cap a two-run seventh­tying run. Chris Speier sacrificed Wilson beat out an infield hit and inning rally that propelled Wallach to third before Joel took second on fust baseman Ray Montreal's Steve Rogers to his 15th Youngblood was intentionally Knight's throwing error on the play. victory as the Expos downed the walked. 
He reached third on a groundout Cincinnati Reds 3-1 last night. Jerry White, pinch-hitting for and scored on a fielder's-choice Reds starter Bob Shirley, 6-10, Rogers, 15-7, hit a bouncer to the grounder, beating Art Howe's throw _ who pitched eight shutout innings mound and Shirley threw to the plate, retiring Wallach on a fielder's choice. But Raines, the next batter, looped a single to right, driving in
Stadler holds moriey 
Youngblood with the go-ahead run. Andre Dawson doubled in the eighth with one out, stole third an
leadafter victory 
continued home when catcher Alex Trevino's throw was errant and
AKRON, Ohio (AP) -Golfs the lead going into the World Series sailed into left field.
money-winning title is important to but, with a $55,000 check for Craig Stadler and he'll do what he second, dropped back to the No. 2 has to do to retain the lead. spot at $386,809, the best of his Phiis 6, Braves 1"It's something I'd like, something career. He has committed for at least I'll push myselfinto playing for," the two more tournaments, uyet and chunky Stadler said after acquiring the Hall ofFame Classic in Pinehurst, 
his fourth title of the season last N.C. Ru:~~!~v~~n <~~ ;nsD~~ .f,..·...p;;jfTo*;;*;;p**~;;;;,;·•,.
weekend with a four-hole playoff "Ifcircumstances merit it, I'll play scored one as the Philadelphia .,... victory over Ray Floyd in the World more. The money title is one of my Phillies beat the Atlanta Braves 6-1 Series ofGolf 
go:~~[e~:! took the money-~:u::.!:r.game i ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE CLERK·~·
With the title went a 1100,000 of a twinight check, the biggest prize oft'ered on winning title last year, is third and Ruthven struck out three and lit ~ the American PGA tour. And that not has a longshot chance of repeating. walked two as he evened his record '*' t only made Stadler the 37tb man to He has $323,076, but that's now at10-10inthePhillies'thirdstraight ~ a .' 
hitthe n million mark in career ear­$105,025 behind Stadler. Kite is ex-victory. The loss snapped a three-~ nings, it also lifted him over Floyd pected to continue playingas longas game Braves' winning streak.. Tite ...­and into the No. 1 position on the he has a chance to catch up. loser waS Pascual Perez, 0-3. * TL Jt­
game's money-winning list, with 1428,101. Only eight events remain on the 
r.----------------~i ~~-!
schedule for the year, and Stadler 
II IIi t
said he will play in at least two and 
,It

possibly four of them despite heavy I I * overseas commitments starting in 
I 1 ! 'flPPiications will be accepted i
October. He's committed for the B.C. Open 
in Endicott, N.Y., this week and the I USED TEXTBOOKS Ii from Mon Aug 30 • Fri Sep. 3 : 
Texas Open in San Antonio. "Depending on what happens on 1 25% oftlistprice 1 ! at 3rd floor Lafortune i 
the money list, I may play in uyet (in Abilene, Texas) and Disney (in Lake 13-5day delivery ifnotin stock 1 : : 
Buena Vista, Fla.),'i, he said. . Those last two may not be neces­
sary. He now holds a commandiag Bu!jlngusedtextal-4pmmon.-Thut. Ii $$PAID POSITION$$ i lead of $41,192 over the veteran 
OPEN 11-6 WEEKDAYS I .... ...­
Floyd on the list that many players feel determine the game's leading I 11-s wEEKENDs_ A. !
. T . 
player for the year. 
Floyd, a 20-year veteran who has yet to win that prestigious title, held 
·-----------------! :,.....***************'************* 
·rn~ Observer-Spons Tuesday, August 31, 1982 -page 22 
Aggressive Braves regainwinningform 
NEW YORK (AP) -The Atlanta and they kind ofrespond to how the Braves, one by one, filed into the manager responds." visitors' clubhouse at Shea Stadium. The Braves beat New York' the 
They were quiet, composed, almost next two days, giving them nine vic­dour. The post-game meal-italian tories in 10 games and a lead in the sausage, chicken, macaroni salad· National League West over Los An­
,._ and beans -seemed uppermost in geles that figured out to .0008876. It their minds. was a far cry from the 1 0. 5 games by 
They sat in rows on either side of which the Braves led Los Angeles the tables, eating quietly. No joking. back onjuly 29. Just eating. The clubhouse hands -The next night, Atlanta won 4-3. 
young men tossing towels, jock Phil Niekro, 43-year-old practitioner straps and socks into clothes ham­of the knuckleball, asked for
was pers -made more noise than the theories. players. "This team hasn't won much in A reporter walked into Braves the past, but it doesn't mean we 
ManagerJoe Torre's office. won't," Niekro said. "We were good "Joe around?" enough to be 10-and-a-half games "Sure. He's around," Coach' Bob 
ahead of Los Angeles at one time, so Gibson answered. why are we any less good right "I don't see him." 
now?" "You mean, is he right here?" Gib­The next· night, Niekro won his son asked, pointing at Torre's empty seventh straight decision, beating desk chair. "Ifyou mean, 'Is he right 
New York 9-4. The Braves had won here?' Then, no. I don't see him sit­three in a row and were on theirway ting right here." to Philadelphia, then Montreal. Back to the clubhouse. "I was puzzled how we could ever 
The Braves had just beaten the lose 11 in a row:," Torre said. He was New York Mets 9-8. It wasn't a clas­in a hurry. The Braves had a game to sic, but it was a victory, the Braves' play the next night at Veterans 
seventh in eight games. After losing 
Stadium. "I just want to make sure 19 of their previous 21, the Braves 
w.e stay aggressive and play confi­
should have been elatc:tl. dently. It was a club that had played That's not the way it-looked. 
so well the first 100 games of the "This club has the characteristics 
season. All I want to do was get it of its manager," Bob Watson said. 
back together. "It's a low key club. Most ofthe guys "You make good plays by being that are leaders here are low key. 
aggressive," Torre said, drawing on a There are a lot of youngsters here, 
long cigar and blow-drying his hair, "by playing the way we were the last The Baltimore Orioles, led by Eddie Murray sion. They've won 10 oftheir last 11, butstill trail time we left this ballpark, back in (center) and Ken Singleton (right), are making Milwaukee~ five games.(~ Pb!!_f!V._.
-THE~HU-DDLEJ~ May." their move in theAmerican League''s EasternDivi­
Dall!l and =========================::::::::==== 
Weekl!l Specials 
MaJ·or Leagu.e Roundup
·All thla week: BBQ Beef SQndwlch 
The Orioles, winners in 10 oftheir doubled to raise his league-leading New York added four runs in the O's6,jays 3 last 11 games, pounced on Toronto batting average to .348 as the Royals fourth. Lou Piniella led off with aToday: right-bander Mark Eichhorn, 0-1, for ~anded error-prone Texas its single, Roy Smalley walked and TORONTO (AP) John five runs on six hits over 42-3 in­sc:venth los~ in eight outings. Nettles singled, scoring Piniella
2Tacos 

Lowenstein homered and Tom nings. Leonard scattered 11 hits and Andre Robertson drove in Smalley 
Fries · 

Davis scattered seven hits in 7 2-3 Eichhorn, making his major struck out five to boost his record to with a single, chasing Viola PeteCoke innings last night as the Baltimore league debut, gave up a triple to Al 9-3 and 3-0 against Texas. Redfern relieved and gave up aonly $2.55 Orioles beat the Toronto Blue Jays Bumbry on the first pitch of the Kansas City grabbed a 2-0 lead in single to Mumphrey that drove in 6-3. game and then walked Glenn Gul­tlte first off loser John Butcher, 1-4. Nettles and Robertson. Soup of the Day: Davis, 5-3, struck out eight and liver. Then Bumbry scored when Wilson singled, moved to second on Nettles got the Yankees' final run walked none before Tippy Martinez Ken Singleton hit into adouble play. shonstop Bucky Dent's throwing er­in the ~venth wit_lt his 16th homer.
• mlnesttone went the final 1 1-3 innings to pick The Orioles added three runs in ror and scored on U.L Washington's up his 12!!.1 !i.:we. __ the second on joe Nolan's fielder's siingle. Washington then stole 
Astros 4, Mets 2 

choice grounder and Rich Dauer's sc~cond and came home on a pair of two-run double. groundouts. NEW YORK (AP)-Ray Knight's 
Lowenstein cracked his solo tie-breaking, two-run single capped
homer with two outs in the third, Yanks 9, Twins8 a three-run rally in the eighth inning

Attention Students! 
• 
but Uoyd Moseby countered for as the Houston Astros beat New
Toronto with his ninth home run MINNEAPOUS(AP)-DaveWin­York 4-2 for the Mets' 14th straight
leadingoffthe bottom ofthe inning. 

fidd slugged a three-run homer and loss. 
Graig Nettles added a solo shot to Art Howe singled with one out in
WEST'BEND® 
~ 

Royals 8, Rangers 3 power the New York Yankees to an the eighth for the third hit of the
• ~ 

8·2 victory over the Minnesota game off Craig Swan, 7-6. Pinch­
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) -Willie 

Twins. hitter Harry Spilman then singled
Wilson had four hits, scored twice Shane Rawley, 9-8, gave up eight pinch-runner Craig R~ynolds to
HOT PO"IM 

and drove in two runs and Dennis 
hits, struck out four and walked two second. One out later, Tony Scott'sLeonard won his seventh straight in gaining his second complete RBI single tied the score, with Spil­
2 to 6 cup heat and 

game as the streaking Kansas City 
game of the year. Frank Viola, who man taking third and Scott reaching
server • brews instant 
Royals beat the Texas Rangers 8-3. shut out the Yankees last week at second on the play.The win was the seventh in a row New York, dropped to 4-5. 
Knight then followed with a line
tea, cocoa, soup and 

for Kansas City, which etended its 
The Yankees took a 3-0 lead in the drive to left for two more runs.
other hot beverages. 

lead to 2.5 games o_ver idle Califor­
first on Winfield's 26th home run af­Reliever Frank LaCorte worked nia in the American League West. tc~r Lee Mazzilli andjerry Mumphrey Wilson singled three tim.es and walked, See ROUNDUP, page 21
$12.99 

$*****;**•**"~**'--**** **-**~*****t
REG. PRICE $14.95 
5 heat settings; 
iC . -~~ ~elcomeAII:StudentsBack! ._
Hot Pepper exterior. 

« Especially ~~he 'The Knights of the Castle' -tc
t' for dormitory rooms arr:lopu...I I ert use I ic -~Afen's HairStyling~ iC · 
Desk Lamps, Curta iii;, Carpet .Remrl:lrts, ·Dishes &Mugs 3 Floors of Values 
~ ·.-~.~-'.'~ ..{·· .~.' ~ 1k~eeJt$ 1
FOr-fhefotifLoOk-ORBstyled 
'"" _ ~ ~t-~-..,.,. ~ Hair Cut, Shampoo~ '"" South Ben::l 's Largest House Wares Stores ! 
iC . . ., Blow Dry,-condition t/e ~ iC · Regular $15.00 iC 
272 0312 

_.. Now 8.50with coupon · iC 
'"" 54533 Terrace Lane
INWOOD'S 
~ Hrs. Tue, Wed, Sat 8:30-5:30 Across from Martin's (St. Rd. 2j) ~ 8 30 8 30
'""" Thur, Fri : " : We are only minutes from campus
425 So. Michigan St. 
iC Closed Mon . _. -iC 
.. **********"*LCOUPON__ *************' 


------------------------------------------------------~---------------------------~-----------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Ihe~r========================================== 
~~4()l~~-~=============================T=u=e=sd=.a=;='==Aug=u=s=t=3=1=,=19=8=2====p=ag=e=2==3
Doonesbury 

STAFF? MAY I HAV& Ya/R. AT-~ 77}/Tlti''-,IU%£' ~ 



011 KEPti.Y! .l 

YEs. I'M HER£ HAVE AHal¢ ~ CLl TO S<llaX. HA/1ED Sl/'10}/, MY flAME I!. 
SJMCJV Ptll5/!J.J~Y. 





WOT /'lOW. 'IW 

5EE, /If'!> Sl(;.l·HoW IIUtT. IN6 IN FKE511MlN CI'W t t'fEEr Mfl. IN KEEN/IN 
111M:' I HAll. 

.----____...,J 1 
J./13" KA!N mAT 5<»fGIJHEf?E. /IJ "11JE C.DLLE:qiA1£ lJ<IIc!>
l£ F\t:"'ll./ZE'P. HE IJ;\~ fi\EP.-IRED 
wAS 1Hl> s'oWTioN n ALL
17> CUT 'Tl\!:Afl'.o,J ST/l/Nq~ _NT wAS W:lA/{/H "!Boor I.Jflii\J/<,l.IN(j 
HIS l'o:.r AI'OL£5 L£'\.li H/5 FIB. 
flloi%EH5. K1LPDy5f.r /fl) C.o.1L5 .. , 
The Daily Crossword 


ACROSS 33 Movie dog 1 Fake 34 Horse 5 Rub out opera 
10 European 35 Actres:: 14 Velnllke CharloHe 
deposit 36 Governor's 15 Was sick annual 16 Jacob's message 
brother 40 Tree 17 Timid 41 Gives a remarks ranking to 20 Expressed 42 Entry anew 43 Emigrant 21 What I.e. 45 Matures 
means 47 German way 22 "-Girls" 48 LugaJbrlous 23 Polson 49 An Allen 25 Brown 52 Postponed 
pigment 57 Augusta Is 29 Dieter's Its capital concern 60 Wax 
Saturday's Solution 

Garry Trudeau 


61 Horrible 62 Religious 
picture 63 Goon 64 Kitty­65 Cozyhome 
DOWN 1 Disparage 2 Sharpen 3 Puts262 
together 4 Convene 5 Spring 
holiday 6 Formal procedures 7 "When I was-" 8 Defeat, In cards 9 Netherlands commune 
iO Garde!'! tool 11 Serf of 
yore 12 Darn It! 13 Sculpture 18 Abnormal 
breathing 19 Children 23 Tubs 
24 Shlpword 25 Found~ 26 Flberfor 
basketry 27 LeHer need 

28 Usea 
shuHie 29 Serve food 30 Furious 31 Consumed 32 Appears 34 Frequently 37 Moving 
about aimlessly 38 Drat, 
for one 39 Very end 44 Lowered 
In rank 45 Klndof loHery 48 Footnote word 48 Korean city 49 Emulate Durer 
~ G~:CQmb, 
form 51 Typeof 
sandwich 52 Oppose 53 Fall from 
the sky 54 Paddy 
grain 55 A Slaughter 56 Small 
hollow 
58 Flying defense leHers 
59 Pair 
Campus
. 

•10 
a.m.· 4 p.m. Art Show, Faculty Exhibition, Snite Museum of Art, parents and students welcome. 

•4 
p.m. -6 p.m. Book Exchange, sc:;cond floor of LaFortune, sponsored by Student Union. 

•7 
p.m., 9:15 p.m., & 11:30. Fllm, "Chariots of Fire", Engineering Auditorium, sponsored by Stu­dent Union. 


T.V. Tonight : 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 The MacNeiVI..ehrer Repon 6:30p.m. 16 M•A*S*H 
22 Family Feud 
.,.
28 Tic Tac Dough 
34 Straight Talk 
7p.m. 16 Father Murphy 
22 Walter Cronkite's Universe 
28 Happy Days 
34 National Geographic 
7:30p.m. 22 One More Try 
28 Laverne and Shirley 
8P.M. 16 Tuesday Night at the Movies: 
"Freedom Road" 
22 CBS Tuesday Night Movie: 
"Scavenger Hunt" 
28 Three's Company 
34 Mystery 
8:30p.m. 28 Too Close for Comfon 
9p.m. 28 Han to Han 
34 With Ossie and Ruby 
10p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 Dick Cavett Show 
10:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 
22 U.S. Open Tennis 
28 ABC News Nightline 
34 Captioned ABC News 
llp.m. 22 Alice/McCloud 
28 Fantasy Island 
11:30 16 Late Night with David Letterman 
Whale hunt on despite protests 
SEAITLE (AP)-A showdown is unfolding in an isolated bay at the southern tip ofVancouver Island as a Canadian aquarium waits to trap two killer whales and an environmental group waits to try to prevent the capture. 
The Canadian government issued permits for the capture to Sealand aquarium last week over the ob­jections of Greenpeace. Crews from the Victoria, British Columbia, aquarium and members of Green­peace have been watching the waters of Pedder Bay since the weekend. 
Sealand officials hope one of three resident pods of orcas that frequent the waters from the Queen Charlotte Isands to the southern tip of Puget Sound will enter the bay within the next several weeks as they chase the salinon runs. 
As soon as they enter the bay, a net will be placed across the half-mile wide opening, trapping the whales inside. 
-American and Canadian members of Greenpeace have established a base camp near the bay. Once the whales are sighted, Greenpeace officials say they will try to keep the orcas from entering the bay. 
"It's like issuing a permit to shoot them," Washing· ton Secretary ofState Ralph Munro, said yesterday of the Canadian government's approval of the capture. "It's a sad day for residents ofthe Northwest." 

Ya WLUC~Ut WOllk b01t US'l'l 
The Observer wi!lcofd altleefUcg b~~t wcymce ~fell ~.Sept.2 
~-.
71Jttt 

tttfeJdwce Sfudact Celde1t .£ifffelkeofett (6irc&t ~) 
~ 
-----------~ 
,I 
I' Kiel clecu·ed bycommittee 
By DAVE DZIEDZIC As soon as he became aware ofthe mittee asked very serious questions, Associate Sports Editor situation, Athletic Director Gene but they were fair. I'm glad the Corrigan began investigating the whole thing is over." After speaking to Notre Dame matter. According to Associate Ath­quarterback Blair Kiel for ap­lc:tic Director Col. John Stephens, Col. Stephens echoed Kiel's 
proximately half an hour yesterday, tlile University itself informed the pleasure. "We're happy that this the NCAA eligibilty committee NCAA of the incident. After situation has been resolved," he said. cleared the junior of any wrongdo­completing his investigation, Cor­"The committee was very objective 
ing in connection with his involve­rigan then sent a full report to the and handled the situation in a profes­ment in a newspaper advertisement NCAA in Kansas. sional manner." promoting a health club in his hometown. The eligibility committee, which The subject has been a hot topic 
consists offive athletic directors and of conversation the past few days The incident arose when Kiel's an NCAA representative, decided to around campus. Rumors have been signature and photograph appeared speak to Kiel and Corrigan via circulating regarding Kiel's possible 
in an advertisement in the July 26 telephone. Phil Facenda, a Univer­suspension. The committee's deci­editions of the Columbus, Ind., sity attorney, was .also present sion, however, puts these rumors to Republic, his hometown paper. The during the teleconference, which rest. In the words of Kiel himself; ad for Monroe's Nautilus Fitness. began at II a.m. yesterday. "It's time to play football." 
Center also featured a quote at­tributed to Kiel endorsing the The conversation lasted for ap­The story came to public atten­Nautilus equipment. proximately half an hour, after tion whenJ.D. Lewis, sports editor of 
which the committee discussed the The Republic wrote a column warn­
Kiel's eligibility was questioned matter privately. They then called ing athletes to keep their names out because, under NCAA rules, amateur Corrigan to inform him that they had of advertisements. Lewis used the athletes are not allowed to endorse found Kiel innocent of any Kiel story as an example. commercial products. wrongdoing. 
Kiel maintains, however, that he Lewis quoted an NCAA official "had no idea" how his signature was Kiel, needless to say, was who said that use of an athlete's to be used, and was only doing "a delighted at the decision. "I'm ex­name or picture could affect the ath­
favor for a friend." According to Kiel, tlremely happy," he said. "The com-lete's eligibility. 
he did not make the statement at­

~~:~~h:;;,~o~g;;;,~:=lrish practiceunder 
Most importantly, Kiel never 

]~ /[usco tempo-rary lights
received payment from anyone. ~ ~-~ _ 
The Fighting Irish football team practiced under the lights Thursday nightatNotre DameStadium inpreparationfor the Sept. "I was doing it as a favor to Mr. Musco Sports Ughting, Inc. was in system at their stadiums. Monroe, who has been awfully nice
18clash with theMichigan Wolverines. See story atright. (photo by town last Thursday and Friday to test Those inside the stadium were Scott Bower) to me," Kiel said. the portable lighting system that will highly impressed by the lights. Many be used at Notre Dame Stadium for 
claimed that it seemed "like the the Sept. 18 opener against Michi­middle ofthe afternoon." 
gan.
Skywriters luncheon· 
It was evident, however, that the The Iowa-based firm lugged its 
lights may provide a new-fangled dif­
s•=ven portable cranes to the ficulty for the Irish, who are ac­
Stadium in order to determine ifthe custed to daylight play. Most of the
7-4? Faust wouldn'ttnind 
planned system would be adequate practice was dedicated to the kick­for the game. ing game, the aspect which should As many observers witnessed, the provide the most difficulty. Several
features five opponents (Pitt, Michi­
By CHRIS NEEDLES ner in the Monogram Room, and system provides enough light for a kickoffs and punts were "lost in the 
Sports Editor gan, Penn State, Miami and USC) that were able to mix and mingle with football game. The lights, which lights" by the receivers. 
are ranked in AP's top 15. several players, coaches and ad-were visible for miles around, are The lights were turned on again"I think Frank Leahy (former Irish ministrators.
"We'll be happy to be 8-3 or 7-4 sltronger than most permanent sys­Friday night. Because the team did 
coach) said it best," Faust related.
this year." t•=ms. not practice, the public was allowed 
"He said, 'Every game ND plays is a
Those, believe it or not, were the But, as their bus departed in the The Notre Dame football team to enter the stadium. 
bowl game for the opponent.' That is 
words ofMr. Optimism, Gerry Faust. afternoon for West Lafayette, Ind., practiced under the lights on Notre Dame and Musco officials 
so true. That means we have 11 bowl
Speaking yesterday at a press con­and Purdue University, they had to Thursday night. University officials were pleased with the tests, but
games this year." man
ference at the ACC for the visiting be wondering just who that and media personnel only were stated that some minor difficulties 
Other points that Faust made at
Big 10 Skywriters, the Notre Dame really was who said he would be allowed to enter the stadium, even must be ironedout before the game. 
football coach gave what bordered richly satisfied with a mediocre 7-4 though the brightness attractedthe press conference included: 
• On the Blair Kiel situation: "I
,. on a pessimistic outlook for the season. many spectators to the area. Musco will return to campushaven't worried about it at all. Blair's 
upcoming season, which begins Sep­During the practice, Musco enter­during the week ofSeptember 13 to 
not guilty by any way, shape orform. That man, indeed,. was Gerry
tember 18 when the Fighting Irish t:ilined a few officials from other uni­begin final preparation for the first 
But we felt we should have reported
host Michigan. Faust. But just call him Mr. Guarded versities and conferences, all of night game in Notre Dame Stadium's it (to the NCAA) just to make sure, Optimism how. 
"With our schedule," Faust said, whom are considering the use ofthe 52-year history. so we did.'' (Yesterday, Kiel was
"we'll be happy to be 8-3 or 7-4 this year. That should get us a bowl bid." Not long ago, a 7-4 season would have called for me immediate ex­
:!{;:~;;:; ~r:i::;'i,,JJCket distributionpolicy 
'II ecution of the head coach. In 1979, when NO finished 7-4, then-Coach is solid." In otherwords, Kiel will get t_: <tf' ' : ·_ Sep -£---Crowd control o ......._ s and 
the nod. t · :' Any Notte Dame/Saint t. -8, ...-um 8 a.m. to S p.m. -­
Dan Devine was a marked man, with 
t u ..._,.. student· wh0 has Freshmen can plck. up the1r student security personnel .­
f-. u--.7 s not

"Dump Devine" banners appearing 
yetappliedforfootball season tickets on Thursday, Sept. 9 at willbe utilhedfor thestudent
throughout Notre Dame Stadium. • On the return of quarterback tickets must do so before the same time. ticket issue. Please stand in . ! 
Ofcourse, Faust has a good reason Scott Grooms: "I told Scott that he 
• Monday, Septembet 6 at the single lines as indicated by
for his guarded optimism. This time 
probably would never~ football ACC Gate 10 box office. The The teserved seats in the the crowd control gates.last year, the Notre Dame campus 
regularly here if he came back, but cost ofa student football tick· student section have NOT When arriving at the ACC, was buzzing with visions of an un­he came back anyway. But that's is ot::r.c A d ide ""'43-been preassioned by the tick· please entet at Gate 3 The
.what Notre Dame does to you. After et 'fJ~· stu ent nUJA:C&· e-•
defeated, national championship 
tion card must be presented et office. Rathet, ifyou desire gate will open at 7:30a.m. dai·
season; most of this was caused by you're here for a while, it's tough to along wit.'b each application. to sit with a classmate, you ly. Your cooperation and Ot· 
Faust's enormous enthusiasm for his leave this place.'' de 1y d __... be
Payment may be made by must present your ID's to-r con uct wu.o
team and his preachings about just 
cash, check ormoney order. gether for adjacent seating. appreciated.
• On Van Pearcy, the former hothow great his players were. 
No studentmay present more H student tickets are still
wide receiver prospect: "He's wayBut, after a season of being out­
All Notre Dame and Saint than fourID's. available after the issue dates
behind -he's been out of footballhustled, out-muscled, out-run, out­
Mary's students who Band members and listed they may be purchased
for two years now and it shows. Milt passed and just plain out-played to 
purcha.'led tickets should prospective band members by studentswho did not do so
Jackson (the freshman from Fair­the tune of a 5-6 record, Faust has 
report to the ti~et windows should check with band oft-during the summer. The
altered drastically his expectations. field, Ia.) is ahead ofhim now.'' I 
at Gate 3 of the ACC. Seniors dais regarding ticket dis-issue will be on a first-come,
"It's difficult to assess whether 
should report on Monday, tribution procedures. first-served basis until stu·
we're a said • On potential NO All-Americans 
better team," Faust, for 1982: "IfI had to pick them now, Sept. 6, from 8 a.m. to S p.m. Married students who dent tickets are exhausted.
"because we're going against our 
Juniors and all under· purchased tickets during the These will be issued
I'd gowith Tony Hunter, Dave Duer­own team in practice. But I saw the son and Tom Thayer. But it's really graduate students in the summer should report to the thorough windows 1 and 2 on .
AP (Associated Press) poll that had 
too early to tell" ninth semeseter or higher ACC with their respective the second floor of the ACC 
us 18th. I think they're taking a big 
should report on Tuesday, class on the scheduled day. on Friday, Sept.lO from 9 a.m.
risk putting us there." 
Sept. 7, from 8 a.m. to S p.m. When picking up your stu· until' p.m.
Faust cited the 1982 schedule -Afterwards, the Skywriters -a 
Sophomores, graduate stu· dent tickets please present Fin81ly, each student must
"probably the toughest in the na­collection ofMidwest sportswriters 
dents and law students ·evidence of your marital have an ID card for admission 
> tion," Faust stated -as the reason who regularly cover Big 1 0 football 
should report on Wednesday, scatus. to aU home foor:ball games.
for his doubts. This year's slate -were treated to a lavish steak din-
r ~ 
. I 
r ­




