• • . Trivia Finale-page 7 

SAN ANTONIO, Texas (AP) -36, pleaded guilty to murder ident John F. Kennedy.conspiracy and other charges
A jury found contract killer Harrelson's attorney, Tom 
Charles V. Harrelson guilty of were dropped. He was asses­Sharpe Jr., said he would file a sed a 10-year prison term and motion for a new trial.
gunning down federal judge John D. Wood Jr. to collect a ...-as the government's key The trial which started Sept. 
$250,000 fee from a drug witness. 28 featured 40 days of testi­
Wood's slaying outside his
dealer. The wives of the hitman mony from 104 government and 
and the drug dealer were Antoruo townhouse triggered 26 defense witnesses, more convicted on lesser charges. the most exhaustive Justice than 500 pages of documents, 
The verdicts capped one of Department investi~ation since and hours of tape recordings rhp 1963 a<:sassi!'l:JtH)n of Pres-played to the jurors.
the most intense investigations in the annals of the FBI, which started when Wood was slain outside his townhouse on May 
Happy hour, party rules 
29, 1979. He is the only federal judge murdered in this century. ''This is just a necessary step in the progression of things," 
clarifiedby council 
the 44-year old Harrelson said 
By AMY STEPHAN 6 p.m. and a shuttle service toto reporters as he was led away. 
News Staff off-campus parking areas.
Harrelson, already serving a 
A re-establishment of an
40-year state prison sentence 
escort service was another topic 
on weapons and other charges, 
Two different groups are considered at last night'sfaces a mandatory life sentence allowed, with the permtssion of meeting. McAuliffe said that he for this conviction. There is no 
the rector, to use a hall's party had discussed a library escortprovision under federal law for room on the same night, service with the hall presidents him to receive the death according to Mike McAuliffe, of the women's dorms. These_pen~..-_________ president of the Hall Presi­women stated, according to · Years earlier, Harrelson, who dents Council, who made this McAuliffe, that they did nothad been previously convicted clarification of the recent consider the library a securityas a hitman, allegedly bragged, change in the party room risk, but they did feel that a''I've never killed a person who guidelines at last night's HPC parking lot escort service would was undeserving of it.'' 
meeting. be useful.
Harrelson's 41-year old wife, 
McAuliffe made this state­McAuliffe said that since aJo Ann, was convicted of ment after a discussion with parking lot escort service would conspiracy to obstruct justice, Father John Van Wolvlear, probably not be used heavily,which carries a maximum vice-president for student other uses for such an escortfive-year term. 
affairs, in which Van Wolvlear service will have to be develop­Ehzabeth Chagra, the 28­interpreted a clause in his ed before such a plan can beyear old wife of Jamiel recent letter to the rectors. implemented.
"Jimmy" Chagra, the man The clause states that if aaccused of ordering the slaying, particular rector feels that his was convicted of conspiracy to or her hall should be exempt
murder a federal jud~e and Back in surgery
from the restriction of usin~ theconspiracy to obstruct JUstice. 
party room only once per mght,She faces up to life in prison. 
this rector should contact VanU.S. District Judge William 
Clark~ heart suffers breakdown 
Wolvlear. According toSessions set sentencing for McAuliffe, Van Wolvlear saidMarch 8. 
that this clause would enable a SALT LAKE CITY (AP)­University of Utah Vice­The heart has four valves,
Mrs. Harrelson is under a 
rector to approve both a party Barney Clark was rushed back President for Health Sciences, and Dwan said doctors said it three-year federal sentence for and a happy hour on the same into surgery yesterday after his said following the operation. was one of two valves in the left using a fictitious name to buy a night, as long as these events blood pressure plunged be­"He was in critical before and ventricle that malfunctioned. 
rifle prosecutors contended was 
were sponsored by different cause of a broken valve in his he's more critical now." Dr. William DeVries, the the murder weapon. 
groups. artificial heart. Doctors repl­It was the third operation in surgeon who implanted the Two others also were indicted 
Possible solutions to the lack aced the entire left half of the less than two weeks for Clark, Jarvik-7 heart on Dec. 2.,in the Wood murder. Chagra, of parking spaces on campus polyurethan_e device in a four­the first human ever to receive consulted with Clark and 39, charged with murder and were also discussed at last hour operatton. a permanent artificial heart But Clark's wife, Una Loy, before murder conspiracy, is to stand night's HPC meeting. These "He's a very, very sick man it was the first time since the the original medical team was trialJan. 10. included proposals for student who's gone through multiple 61-year old retired dentist hurriedly assembled and yest­
Chagra's brother, Joseph, use of staffparking spaces after surgeries,'' Dr. ChasePeterson, received the heart 13 days ago erday's surgery began, he said. that the mechanism itself had Imtially, doctors had thought developed a problem. the problem might be caused bl
Nationwide organization In just over four hours of a blood clot or by a growth o surgery, doctors replaced the tissue over the heart valves. left ventricle of Clark's plastic During the surgery in which the 
heart. They found the mitral heart was implanted, Clark's valve of the left ventricle had surgeons were dissatisfied with By DAN MCCULLOUCH formed as a result of the career goals, exposure to broken, causing blood to regur­the eerformance of one of the gitate back into Clark's natural Jarvik-7's ventricles. It was 
SMCforms chapterofAMA 
StaffReporter splitting of the former St. marketing professionals, career 
left atrium, or upper chamber, replaced with a ventricle from a
Mary's General Business Club information, and other specialinto more specialized groups benefits. Peterson said. backup heart. For the first time in the including the Finance Club, the ''This is the mitral valve , The drop in blood pressure 
which is the most serious of any occurred exactly one week after 
history of the collese, Saine Management Club, and the Future plans for the ~roup 
there could be,'' said Dr. Clark experienced a series of
Mary's has estabhshed a Marketing Club. include a trip to Chicago tn late 
Robert J arvik, the inventor of short but intense seizures. 
collegiate chapter of the Amer­January to meet with some
Faculty advisor Margaret marketing firms. Also planned the artificial heart, who was Clark, from suburban Seat­
ican Marketing Association . .
Dineen and other faculty mem­summoned by a nurse when the 
(AMA) for those students is a trip to an AMA collegiate See HEART, page 3
bers were already members of blood pressure dropped.
interested in gaining practical chapter conference in early
the AMA, and it was through Clark was consulted at some
experience in this potential April, also in Chicago. 
Dineen's guidance that the club length about his condition prior 
career field. 
was formed, said Brennan. ·to the surgery and gave his vote
The organization has over Discussing club goals,
About 38 Saint Mary's students for going back on the operating 
40,000 members nationwide, Brennan said, "We hope to
have already joined, although table, Peterson said. 
and is present on 361 college string together marketing stud­
Brennan adds, "We're con­The surgery began about
campuses, although Notre ents to work together with
stantly recruiting.'' 10:45 a.m., an hour after Jarvik
Dame is not one of them. Newly professionals. We want to elected chapter president In addition to practical mar­generally orient the members noticed the drop in blood 
pressure while vtsiting Clark,
Michelle Brennan, a Saint keting experience, the club al.so with people in the field to gain a 
said John Dwan, University of Mary's business major, ex­offers interaction with other better understanding of mar­Utah Medical Center spokes­plained that the club was students who share the same keting principles.'' 
man. 


----~---: 
!News Brie/§ 
By The Obsen,er and The Associated Press. 
Architecture instruments stolen 
Architectural instruments and a flute were among the items stolen from the Architecture Building sometime during the weekend. ~otre ~arne Security confirr~ed that sometime between Fnday mght and Sunday mornmg that the theft occurred. Anne Schellin~er, an investigator, said yesterday four reports of stolen Items had been_ received by Security. "We have no suspects and are workmg on the case," she said. An estimate of the value of the stolen property was not available. -The Observer 
Teams hunt for survivors 
Rescuers searched devastated villages in the rugged countryside of North Yemen yesterday for trapped survivors of an earthquake that killed more than a thousand people. At least 1 ,082 people have been confirmed killed since shortly after noon Monday, when the worst quake in 16 centuries rolled across the small, mountainous nation of the Arabian peninsula. Yemen Prime Minister Abdul-Karim Iriani said 1,104 people had been hospitalized. Eleven villages were levelled and 142 were badly damaged, according to first reports. Most dwellings are built of sun-baked brick and many crumpled during the 40-second quake and three severe aftershocks. Two hundred fifty children died when their schoolhouse collapsed on them, according to a state radio report monitored in Bahrain. North Yemen does not readilygrant visas, and transportation to the quake area was limited, making immediate coverage of foreign reporters nearly impossible. Broadcast and published information is monitored in nearby Bahrain. Many villagers whose houses remained standing fled outdoors in fear of further aftershocks, and a geological expert predicted a new quake as intense as the first one, according to reports yesterday. -AP 
Reagan spurns problems 
President Reagan declared yesterday he is "not scared" to tackle Social Security's financial problems, but he is still leaving it to a national commission to pave the way. With that, a key Republican member of the panel demanded "some leadership from the White House" before the retirement system plunges over the brink. The National Commission on Social Security Reform already had served notice it will not be able to shape bipartisan recommenda­tions unless Reagan and House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill, D-Mass., step into the fray. The commission faces a Friday deadline for its report. But Reagan held his groundyesterday, saying it should be up to the 15-member commission, including "experts in the field of actuarial statistics and insurance and pension plans'' to develop their own proposals. He insisted, however, that "We're not scared to touch the issue." O'Neill, for his part said Monday he saw little prospect for teaming up with Reagan now on the issue. But he added, ''I'll be glad to go over" to the White House should Reagan call. -AP 
MX money could be frozen 
Fighting to salvage the MX missile, President Reagan said yesterday he would be willing to freeze the weapon's production money until he sends Congres a new package of alternate basing plans from which it could ptck and choose. Reagan's action, described as a compromise with Republicans and Democrats in the Senate, signaled _his willingness to rethink the so-called dense pack basmg system he unveiled just three weeks ago. The compromise was aimed at preventing a repeat of the crushing defeat ­by a 69-vote margin -the MX suffered in the House last week. It was far from certain, however, that the strategy would work. -AP 
Man takes judge hostage 
A man facing criminal trespass charges kicke~ his way into a magistrate's house yesterday and took the judge and his wife hostage at gunpoint, but was captured about five hours later, Avondale, Pa., police and the judge's _brot~er said. District Magistrate Donald C. Brown and his wife, Jean, were unhurt. Police tricked the suspect into leaving the judge's house, and aft~r he walked o~t.the front door four plainclothes officers Jumped from hidmg_ plac~s and wrestled him to the ground m the snow, said Michelle Messinger, a neighbor who saw the capture. The capture freed the judge. Mrs. Brown had been released about two hours earlier. -AP 
Cloudy, cool today 
Cluody and cool today with a 70 percent chance of light rain, possibly mixed with sleet by late afternoon. High in the low 40s. Cloudy and cold again tonight with a 40 percent chance offlurries and a low in the low 30s. Mostly sunny tomorrow with highs in the upper 30s. 
, Wednesday ,December 15 ,1982-page 2 
A new life for ·two 
As the snow begins to fall and the finals start to inflict one and all, Christmas wishes hardly Gregory Swiercz seem appropriate amidst the grey South Bend 
Feotures Editor Emeritus
sky. Most students are rushing about, trying to 
get those last-minute papers and exams out of 
the way, as well as attempting to share with one Inside \.Nednesdayanother one of the most blessed and joyous times of the year. 

Good cheers and wishes can be made to all at good aspects of Notre Dame return as you smile this time, but special wishes are in order for a for the ID camera. You've returned home. 
group of students who will not be at the So for the "January" graduates, may University next semester, and to an individual Christmas be the commencement of the who will not be around to see another change in wondrous journey of life this season so aptly 
seasons. glorifies. 
For a handful of students, the advent of But for one South Bend man, I wish this last Christmas marks the culmination of their Christmas f~r you to be the best. academic studies at the University--the January I was waiting for the South Shore to go home 
graduate. on a Friday last June, when a skinny sailor 
Surprisingly, the January graduate actually carrying his duffel bag walked to the telephone leaves in December, with no fanfare, no on the wall beside me. He dialed hastily, and commencement exe.ccises to sneak champagne asked the receiver if it was alright to return 
into the A.C.C. and act like juvenile delin­home. 
quents, or no immediate recognition of the "Hello there," he said to me. "I just spent successful completion of their selected curricu­two years on a ship and my family doesn't want lum. The students are welcome to return to 
to see me." campus in May to participate in commencement Surprised at his candidness, I mumbled some 
exercises, but how many times has gratuity, but noticed his cap, emblazened with
one experienced delayed gratification and discover­the U.S.S. Vulcan insignia, was covering a ed that the event had lost quite a bit of its lustre, tot~lly__bald head. He soon answered my and the event became an empty travesty? ... cunosiues. 
I happen to be one of these people, one who "I've been discharged from the navy. Got has had to take courses out of sequence, (do you inoperable brain cancer. My wife left me. But 
know how irritating it is to take the second that's no matter. The doctors only gave me six 
semester of Major British Writers and viewing months to live. Hey, do you live in South Bend? 
the end of the literary evolution, only to have to Do you_ know (someone)?" he fired in rapid 
go back in time and study the origins?) For successiOn. 
anyone who believes in chronological progres­I didn't know the person he spoke of. The 
sions, this practice would be most unpleasant. only thing I could say to him was to "take it 
Or how about the inconvenience of having to easy." wait a year for courses that are designed for the As I sat on the train, I started to let the fall-spring semester order? Granted, this group graveness of rhat brief, but saddeningof "non-conformists," or "returnees" is not the encounter sink in. I wanted to tell the man I majority. But in the words of one gentleman cared, I found myself wanting to mourn for this who makes people laugh using this frustrating human bein~, although I had only shared with occurrance, "we don't get no respect." him a mere mstant of his life. 
For those who have never experienced the I never realized his time was precious; it was process a returning student goes through at fleeting, and it was set to expire at the end of Notre. Dame, allow me to fill you in on the this year. He was dying at a time when ~eople expenence: around the world are celebrating the bmh of 
The students line up in the Registrar's office that little babe in the manger, surrounded by his 
waiting with great anticipation, for the smaller divine parents and stabled animals. size of the lines don't compare with convention­To this brave man, I would like to tell him that al registration lines. The faces around you seem the Christmas season is a time for joy and 
familiar, for many of the returning students caring. As his ended season nears, I wish the have a common likeness--the look of joy. One final happiness this man experiences is the sees in the faces the reasons for their departure thought that the birth of the Son of God gives us from Notre Dame. The transfers are the all hope, and that the Christmas season truly is 
happiest, anticipating the new life under the the time to rejoice for what we all have. 
Dome. The sick look the part, and quietly 
rejoice at the chance to have strengthened 
themselves enough to return. You talk to the 
The views expressed in the Inside 
person in front of you, finding out who the 
column are the views ofthe author, and do
person is, why he or she returned, what he has 
not necessarily represent the views ofThe
been doing. For the first time in a semester, a 
Observer or its editorial board. 
year, or whatever time you were away, you feel as if you belong again. The memories of all the 
Pittsburgh Club CHRISTMAS BBE.AK BUS SCHEDULE 
The Observer 
Buses will leave ND (CCE) and SMC (Holy Cross )
Desigl\ Edicor: Kay Holland 
Design AssiStants: Brigette Goulet Alan Bell 
Tues. Dec. 21, 1982 at Spm Will arrive in 
News Editor: Mike Wilkins 
Wed. Dec. 22, 1982 at Spm
Copy Editor: Tim Neely Features Layout: Joe Musumeci 
Pittsburgh about 12:30·1:00 am Weather Permitting 
Edicorials Layour: Paul McGinn 
Buses will return. to NDlSMC from Pittsburgh
Sports Copy Editor: Mike R1ccardi Typists· Chris Perry 
Greyhound Terminal Mon.•ran. 10, 1983 at l:oo· pm 
Ted Pore 
Arrive approxiamately 15 min. 
Tari Brown ND Day Editor: Kathleen Hogan 
before scheduled leaving times 
SMC Day Editor: Tim Petters 
Merry Christmas from the Pittsburgh Club 
Ad Design: Paul Slota Photographer· Ed Carroll Guest Appearances: Pepsi Syndrome, 
Two Half-crocked computer m<"chanics 
Merry Christmas! !!! 
The Observer 1USPS 598 9201 IS published Monday through Frtday and on home football Saturdays except durtng exam and vacat1on pertods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Samr Marys Col· lege Subscrtpt1ons may be purchasE'd for $25 per year 1St5 per spme~tert by wrtt1ng The Observer P 0 Bux 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer 1s a member of The Associated Press All reproduct1on t~ghts are reserved 
Second class post age pa1d at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 

The Observer Wednesday, December15,1982-page-3 
Abduction attetnpts spur tighter security 
By MARGARET FOSMOE 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor 
An additional security guard has been posted in the McCan­dless lor at Saint Mary's on a trial basis. 
The increased security is a result of an abduction attempt that took place in the lot Sunday evemng. This was the second major incident reported at Saint Mary's this semester. 
A security guard will be posted in the lot from 6 p.m. to 2 a.m. until Christmas break, according to Robert Foldesia director of .Personnel. The' results of this trial period will determine whether the addi­tional guard will be permanent. 
In Sunday's incident, a Saint Mary's junior was grabbed by a man carrying a small knife. The man ordered the student to come with him, but she managed to escape. 
Saint Mary's Security and the Saint Joseph County Sheriff's Office were notified, but the ;lssailani was not appre­hended. 
On Nov. 5, two Saint Mary's students were accosted in the McCandless lor and one of the victims was forced into the assailant's car. The student escaped unharmed. The assail­ant in that incident also has not been apprehended. 
The suspect in the November incident is described as a black male, about 25 years, five feet, 11 to six-feet, one-inch tall, 160 to 170 pounds, with short cropped hair. He was wearing dark pants, a green Army jacket, and wire-rimmed sun­glasses. He was armed with a huntin& knife. The car involved 1n that mcident is believed to be a green Dodge Charger. 
Sunday's assailant is des­cribed as a black male, 19 to 2 5 years, six-feet tall, and about 175 pounds. That suspect was also wearing dark pants and a green Army jacket. 
Sergeant Delinski ofthe Detective Bureau 
says, 'We think it's 
the same guy.' 
Foldesi says he is nor convinced that the assailant in both cases is the same person. 
Sergeant Greg Delinski of the Detective Bureau of the county Sheriff's Office disagrees. "We think it's the same guy," said Delinski. 
He noted the· similarities in the police composite drawings of the suspects. The compos­ites were drawn based on descriptions by the victims. ''The composites are an 80 to 90 percent likeness of the indiv­idual,'' according to Delinski. 
. Delinski is handling the mvestigations of both incidents. 
Anyone with information about the suspects should contact Delinski at 284-9611 or Saint Mary's Security at 284­5000. 
. . . Heart 
Above are the composite drawings ofthe suspects police are searching for in connection with two assaults at Saint Mary's this semester. At t is the in the 
continued from page 1 
tle, underwent post-operative surgery Dec. 4 to repair air sacs in his lungs which doctors said had ruptured during the seven­hour implant surgery two days before. 
In the week between the 
setzures anci yesrc:ruay "' sur­gery, Clark had been uncon­scious or sefi!i-conscious, but 
doctors said he was slowly becoming more alert and his periods of lucidity were length­ening. A spokesman early yesterday said Clark had a good night Monday night. 


The Observer Wednesday ,December 15,1982-page 4 
Paul Quadrini samples pottery being at Sophomore Class Chnstmas Sale in the foyer of the Memorial Library. (Photo by Ed Carroll] 
IIIIHIHIIIIHIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIHIHIHHIHHIIIIHIIHIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHII 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION 
PRESENTS 
SPRING BREAK IN DAYTONA BEACH 
MARCH II • 20. 1983 
A~• by 
£CliO TRA Y£L, INC. 
!t1Cl!l:H71F 
·~ 
TRIP INCLUDES 
•lt<'ul>dt"pmutur<.
.>U'hlr.tn-pouanon..,.modunhtJh"'IY m...tte.tn f) 1 ~tnlla fka<h. Hortdi b:.t•tnJ Fnclay. M1rdtll 

• 
s~•cnm~IU• •nnmmrHI-111111\ Illhe ·~CIIInJ Pllrl Hottl of 


$185 
[l')'tlll\.lllkuh [.oc..cd~tbllO ..ur1h,"lanlt~A•c.HLIII!I: flltl\ldcmandedhmduntlle•Lropatthattimt 
• 1\ trul) Jrul..:llcdule ufaetmtllt> mdud1111 our f1mous 
punldn:~JIIO•L~ondbcll) flop~ome.t 
I'O('R I'ER ROOM • Upi1<Hll1 ntllnu>M ••••lillie I<> 011M~ World, Epcot. and ..r•cral<l\hcraurwmn• • 'umcr<>II•Nrand•c•t.urantdo"'o"nt• 
• Til<!,....,,..,.."' lullumc u~ul r•r~llu•to
$199 
• ,O.IltuC'andpanullto 
• (,...,4n1o;cd t.n~IM:neuo., n.:nnh!>IIL ••tllal>l< 11 1m1ll ~.w.tt..n~l Ml••l~ •• po:r ro<>m Dnl)l 
SIGN t:P NOW AT THE TICKET OFFICE/RECORD STORE MON.-FRI. IO AM-4 PM OR CALL 239-5213 
IIIIIHIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH...I 
CONSIDER 
OWNING 
YOUR OWN 
TOWNHOUSE
. 
WHILE AT N.D.! 
. 

COUNTRY VILLAGE 
THERE ARE MANY ADVANTAGES TO THIS SUPRISINGLY AFFORDABLE ALTERNATIVE 
Minutes from Campus * Tax Benefits * Build Equity 
Attached Garages * Included Maintenance * Study Area 
* Room to Accomodate Guests from Home in your Own Home ! ! ! 
MODEL OPEN DAILY l·S 
EXCEPT~EDNESDAY 
On Crownhill Drive. off Ironwood 
---*----tg N 
North of Cleveland Road 
CROWNHILL 
~ } 
277-1177 or 272-77';0 Another Development by CLEVELAND
PORTAGE REALTY 
Old library renovation 
Addition to include bookstore 
By CATHY PAX third larger than the existing The results of a survey 
Staff Reporter facilities. distributed to students, faculty, "We'll try to include more and administrators showed that general reading books, an most believed the :aisles> in the 
Next vear, Saint Mary's expanded gift line, better existing bookstore were too 
students will no longer have to display for textbooks and narrow and crowded. The navigate the winding hallways g~eeting cards, and a better majority called for expansion.
of LeMans basement to reach dtsplay for knitwear," said 
The architects for the addi­
the bookstore. A 5,000 square­Barbara Racine, bookstore ma­
tion are Woollen, Molzan and
foot addition to the old library, nager. 
partners, and Casteel Con­
presently being converted into The addition was funded by 
struction is doing the building.
a student center, is planned for Eli Sheehan, a member of the completion next fall. Saint Mary's Board of Regents. No decision has been made The addition will house a new The new facility will be named about what will be done with bookstore approximately one-the "Sheehan College Store." the present bookstore area. 
Chautauqua Club? 
Brainstorm winners announced 
ByTONIRUTHERFpRD between dorms, sent in by Lisa Burns, Anne ChapskL, Director Staff Reporter Karle. Mills and Karle tied for of Student Activities Dr.]ames third. McDonnell, Sister ] ean Lenz Many of the ideas received .and Father William Beau­
Making Chautauqua into an concerned the use of LaFor­champ. Standards used for undergraduate club without tune. Others were suggestions judging were the inventiveness, alcohol was the winning idea, for Mardi Gras activities, a originality, practicality and contributed by Pete Ciotto, in campus "White Christmas" :feasibility of the suggestions. the "Operation Brainstorm" party, and Nautilus equipment .Also considered was the adapt­contest sponsored by Ombud-for non-varsity athletes. ability of the ideas. 
man. I The suggestions were judged Sixty suggestions were sub­
The other top-three ideas last Friday by Ombudsman mitted, and work on many of included an ethnic festivities Programs Coordinator Andy them will begin next semester. week, contributed by Thomas Tucker, Student Body Vice­The winning ideas will be the Selvaggi; a bake shop in President Bob Yonchak, an hardest to implement, accor­LaFortune, suggested by Lucy executive coordinator for Stu­ding to Tucker, but they will be 
Mills; and a talent contest dent Government Maureen used if possible. 
"FINALS'' SPECIAl 
Open tilll:30a.m. every night until Dec. 20th · 
FREE DELIVERY 272-8030 
:Jt 1· J. :Jt • :Jt• • Cheese Pizzo, ~ddition~l ingredients .96 tpD Ui"f .-nnct tpt_J~tna prices do not include to.x 
Pizza Pietogi Sandwiches 18061 So. Bend Ave~ 
17" p• t16 97 
One H~lf Block West 
I.Z.ZQ -'II • ofllronwoodonSR23 
. THE NROTC COLLEGE PROGRAM. 
$2,000 EXPENSE MONEY AND A NAVY OFFICER COMMISSION. 
The two-year NROTC College Program offers you two years of expense money thafs worth up to S2.000. plus the challenge of becoming a Navy Officer v.ith early responsibilities and decision·making authority. 
During your last two years in college the 1\avy pays for uniforms, NROTC textbooks and an allowance of S100 a month for up to 20 months. 
NROTC $15,000 SCHOLARSHIPS: 
The two·year NROTC Scholarship Program offers vou a two-vear college scholarship that"s worth as mu'ch as Sl5.000 in tuition 
During college. the .'\avy pays tuJtJon. cost ot textbooks. instructional fees. and an allowance of 8100 a month for up to 20 months during your last two years of college. Upon graduation and completion of requirements. you are commissioned a ;\av~· Officer. 
lfyouhaveaC+ GPAorbetter,call 
us now as scholarship opportunities have 
never been better. Ask for LCDR INorrbom 
or LCDR Horstmann at 239-7274 or 239-6442. 
NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST. 


~~----­
Wednesday,December 15,1982 -page 5
Editorials 
Lethal injection perverts physician's commitment 
. . . I wzll use treatment to help the sick according to my abzlity and 
judgment, but never with a view to zn;ury and wrongdoing ... I wz/1 keep pure and holy both my lzfe and my art ... In whatsoever houses I enter, I wz/1 enter to help the sick, and I wz/1 abstain from a/! intentional wrongdo­ing and harm, especially from abusing the bodies ofman or woman, bond or free. 
Oath ofHippocrates 
Paul McGinn 
Roper Review 
With Texas' execution of Charles Brooks by lethal injection, America has entered a new era of capital pumshment. Pain--which was inher­ent to the "cruel and unusual" sentences of drawing and quartering, impaling, and beheading, has disap­peared from the notion of killing criminals. But with the abolition of physical agony has come the emer­gence of an even greater mental and social pain. 
Men of medicine, who have sworn allegiance to the protection of life, are now implicitly involved in the raking of life. And while no doctor acrualfy thro;Ys-a k:ver to send the drug into the body of a critr:inal, rhe very use of drugs (which must be ordered and administered in the presenc·e of a doctor, and which, if 
administered in small amounts would 
be beneficial) opens new avenues by 
which men and women of the medical 
profession tacitly assent to the 
contradiction of their vocation. 
Men in white masks have replaced black-hooded brutes. No longer do we sense the horror of a dark and dank ''death room'' located far beneath a windowless case-like prison. We now see a bright airy room with a clean cot and a sterile needle. 
Those pure and healthful instru­ments of medicine which have come to characterize the J'reservation of life have now turne into the horribly systematic tools of death. And the men who until recently had been concerned only with saving people "professionally" observe while a lethal dose is administered. 
The justice system has now institut­ed a moral code higher than the Hippocratic Oath. For the sake of expediency and lessening of pain, the justice system has placed an act-­which to many is always immoral, and which was uniquely irs own responsi­bility--in the hands of men and women who are regarded by society as the guardians of life. 
The justice system has removed all guilt from itself, not by meeting the challenge of capital punishment directly, but by pushing the problem 
upon the medical profession.
Edito~iaiists throughout the nation have seized upon the issue of whether 
the medical profession can assent to lethal injection through a doctor's ordering of drugs for the procedure and through the doctor's very pre­sence at such a procedure to insure its smooth completion. 
But a few have voiced dismay over the justice system's sleight of hand which has switched responsibility from an unknown axe-wielding brute to an equally anonyriwus yet supposedly upstanding physician. 
Responsibility for lethal injection has become a modern-day Medusa which neither the justice system nor 
...; 
the American Medical Association has seriously attempted to face. If lethal injection is to remain a "viable" form of execution, both physicians and justices must come to an understand­ing about their respective roles in the killing ofconvicted criminals by drugs. 
But as the older "not-so-nice" methods of execution were unaccept­able on humanitarian grounds, so too is lethal injection inhumane, for it also denies the basic human right to life. And even the most detestable criminal has that fundamental human right. 
' 
i 
I 
Dear Ed2n satire 
My compliments to Snyder on his modest proposal of December 8. HisI satire introduced a nice note of sanity into the MX debate. Yet satire canI 1 sour when handled by an amateur. IThat seems to be the case in those letters from Professor Norling. Norling, you may remember, is the professor who often tries his satire in I those long letters that snarl at .lectures he doesn't have time to 
attend. A satirist he is not. Too many 
Iof my conservative friends are auto­matically defending any position satinzed by Norling. I keep telling them that Norling probably intends to ridicule the lett. not reinforce it. To no avail. So, Professor Norling, kindly redirect that searing satire toward the right. The satire won't be any better but no one on the right can tell the difference anyway; and my conservative friends will quietly return to their ideological roots where they belong. 
Claude Pomerleau, C.S. C. 
Latzn Amen·can Areas 
Studies Program 
Transfer trot{bles 
Dear Editor: 
The semester is finally approaching an end. However, many. discontented transfer students see no end to the speculations and proposJtJons be­stowed on themccncernmg housing as well as other aspects ofa transfer's life at Notre Dame.Most transfer students that I have spoken with unanimously agree that some attempt should be 
Post Office Box 
made by the transfer committee as well as the housing officials to resolve the apparent weaknesses that hinder a transfer's chances of enjoying life at Notre Dame. 
Many problems that transfers faced this semester began at orientation. The transfer committee did provide some social events for transfer stu­dents;however, the orientation pro­gram neglected to provide many transfer students with enough ade­quate information concerning campus tours and helpful suggestions.A trans­fer student's situauon is much the same as that of a freshman. 
Orientation activit~es should provide the transfer student with the necessary information common to any new student. Remaining social activities should suit the transfer students and freshmen respectively. 
The major problem of concern among transfer students is that of on­campus housing. After approximately one month, I was finally able to receive on-campus housing. However, I was also fortunate to be one of first male transfer. students on the waiting list. To this date perhaps 70 f~male and 14 male transfer students were admitted to dormitories out or a total of about 264 students. 
This situation was probably not anticipated by the housing officials, but . occlired _primarily ·because of cbin~lic;~tect #~tors ·~hf\t <include 
upper!Zlass anrmon and the number of tran$f~rs admitted.· This situation is totally unacceptable to transfer stu­dents Jnd has caused some to become severely discontented with the univer­sity's policy of. unguaranteed on­campus housing. 
It was also brought to my attention that although transfer students are guaranteed very little of anything, they must be used as a buffer in order to maintain constant housing and financial projections set by the University; therefore, it seems that this problem will remain for transfer students each yl":<f, and so eventual efforts need by made ro ease the burden that transfer students face each year. 
Barry F. Hebert Transfer Engineen·nc Major Loyola University of the South 
Enough is enough 
Dear Editor: Obviously, Mr. Joel Connelly '69, has turned into the type of alum that most of the N.D. community frowns on. He's the chronic complainer who can do more harm than good with his piercing words directed toward the 
N.D. leadership (i.e. Fr. Joyce and Coach Faust). Hopefully most stu­dents laughed off the editorial from the frustrated alum who was probably upset because he didn't get rickets in the lottery. 
Attacking Coach Faust with cheap shots merely revealed that you, Mr. Connelly, have not been in close contact with your Alma Mater. You read the sports pages, watch the nationally televised games, and then you pass judgment on a man whom you know absolutely nothing about. Talk about Monday morning quarter­backs! 
Well sir, I have had the pleasure to watch the man in action--with daily visits to the Grotto and appearances at all hours at countless student activities --win or lose, he lives and loves what 
N.D. truly stands for. So, believe it or not, Gerry's trying his heart out to win for squawkers like you. 
You knock Gerry for "yelling at referees" (obviously you don't watch Digger or other coaches), "hawking" 
N.D. trips (which bring N.D. alums together), and have the gall to assert that Gerry "is a public embarassment 
to an institution that stresses excel­lence". Well sir, I am sorry to say that you are the only embarassing element to N.D. that I can draw from this display of ignorance. 
Where were you all season... in a cave? Dido' r you see the Pitt or Michigan games, or the last second victorv over Miami, or the touchdown that USC didn't score to beat N.D.? Not enough excitement for you? Coach Faust has had some problems, but given more time, he will prove his excellent coaching ability. 
Please, Mr. Connelly, before you advise Fr. Joyce to select a new coach, think of the circumstances that Coach Faust was surrounded with as a newcomer to N.D. and what positive aspects he has brought to N.D. football. Jusr ask some of his players. 
We gracious alums--while demand­ing national champs yearly--tend to forget that the man must be give£' a chance to learn from his mistakes. Gerry's only a man, with strong deep feelings for N.D.--much stronger, would think, than yours. So Mr. Connelly, the next time you seek to have an article printed, think a little before you write. Maybe then, we alums wouldn't get such bad press. 
Nick W. Chnsty '82 
"'it 
Ihe~~========= Editorial Board Department Managers 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IS 46556 
Editor·in·Chief.............. .............. Michael Monk Business Manager ................ ............Tony Aiello
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­
Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller .............................................Eric Schulz 
versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect 
Executive News Editor .............. David Dziedzic AdvertisingManager.......................Chris Owen
the policies of the administration of eitl-ter institution. The news is reported as ac· 
SMCExecutive Editor............ Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager..................Maura Murphy
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa 
Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager.......................\lark Miotto
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict 
Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Systems Manager ........................... Bruce Oakley
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, 
Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown
and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Photo Editor ................................... Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1.966 
(219) 239-5303 

·····································•••:•··~·······~···························· 
Wednesday,December 15,1982 -page 6
~StiOWCfiSE 
N 
co 
o-
I 
v 
en 
::::» 
E. 
z 
-
1­
., 
•\ 
en 
11&1 
CD 

Best Album... 
DON'T YOU WANT ME 

The year 1982 was one of the best for 
music m some time, with reservations. 
More great 45s were released within 
the past 12 months than in any 
December-to-December period since 
the 1960s. The same, however, cannot 
be said for LPs, as the year's crop 
failed to match the quality of the htt 
singles contained within them. This is 
certainly one reason why the record 
industry is in a depression. Few LPs 
had more than three quality songs. 
(Some had only one; others, as usual, 
had none.) 
Thus, with little or no fear, once again I will impose upon you my judgment of the ten best and ten worst singles and LPs of the last 12 months. Before I begin, two warnings. First, 45 RPM consideration is limited to those that made the top 40 because of familiarity and numbers. Second, this is solely my opinion, and does not ·purport to reflect that of any organiza­tion to which I may claim membership, or that of any other person, for that matter. With this in mind, here is the 
year in popular music, 1982. 
The Top Ten Singles of1982 
1. 
"Don't You Want Me" by the Human League-a classic for this, and any other, year, and it eveQ hit number one, an unheard of feat for great songs of recent years. 

2. 
"Waiting on a Friend" by the Rollins Stones -featuring some of the most Jazz-like sax playing in a rock record, courtesy of Jazzman Sonny Rollins. Almost as good as "Start Me 


Up."
3. 
"Harden My Heart" by Quarter­flash -a rarity in that it was a great car-radio song, but a hit during the winter whereas most ~ood cruisin' songs are summertime hits. 

4. 
"Who Can It Be Now?" by Men At Work-an impressive and instantly memorable debut American single. The biggest hit ever on our charts by an Australian rock group. 

5. 
"Hold Me" by Fleetwood mac ­served as an excellent preview of their Mirage LP. Two members of the band actually duetted, something they had seemingly forgotten how to do on Tusk. 

6. 
"Edge of Seventeen" by Stevie Nicks -from the Mac member most likely to secede, the strongest track on a fairly ordinary solo LP, Bella Donna, but not released until third. 

7. 
"Tainted Love" (without "Where Did Our Love Go'') by Soft Cell-a song doomed to permanent obscurity until Billboard got behind it. It eventually became the record-holder for most consecutive weeks in the Hot 100. Transcends the limits of the instru­mental track and is able to stand out. 

8. 
"I Ran" by A Flock of Seagulls ­another new act with a less synthesizer­laden sound, and maybe the best to hit 


in the States so far (they actually had a shame the insipid ''body Language" she'd have known better tl follow-up Hot 100 hit) . was the first single. There are at least this song, because sh blud, 
9. 
"Empty Garden (Hey Hey five others which could have succeede­death. Johnny)'' by Elton John -the most ed. 10. ''KeeptheFireBurni beautiful and touchmg John Lennon 9. Sheffield Ster;/ by Joe Cocker -his Speedwagon -and roU tribute song, a top-20 hit which became first new album in several years, he is changes, I gues_s. Except fc the first John-Bernie Taupin collabora­back in "good" voice with excellent a remake of thetr own song tion to make it that high since 1976. material. A winner from the start. problem among ''faceless' 

10. 
"Leader of the Band" by Dan 10. Jump Up! by Elton John -a The Bottom Ten Albums ( Fogelberg-I never thought I would say varied yet consistent album, his most 1. Mesopotamia by thel 


a Fogelberg song was truly great, but engaging since his unstoppable mid-purveyors of aural nonse here it is: a song written for his father, 1970s years. themselves too seriously. and for all our fathers, which explains "mini-LP," apparently cl
The Bottom Ten Singles of 1982
much of its appeal. on this disc were all the '' 
1. "I've Never Been To Me" by
Coda. 1982 was such a tremendous resulting from the session 
Charlene -and to think we should have 
year for singles that I would be remiss so.
been spared this exercise in banality, as 
not to list 10 others which are of only 2. Reach by Richard S~
it first came out in 1977 and bombed.
fractionally lesser guality than the worst of all those execra
Blame a Tampa disc jockey for the 
above, and comyre favorably with the records, by everyone's favc
unearthing of this, one of the worst 
top 10 songs o years recently past. man. Now sing along, ever
songs of the entire rock era.
Alphabetically, here are the second get phythical. .. '' 
ten: 2. "Pac-Man Fever" by Buckner and 3. Chipmunk Rock by th ''Abracadabra'' by the Steve Miller Garcia -if I'd known my bemoaning a -not intended to be tak1 
Band lack of novelty hits last year would have but still bad. The novelty 1 ''Centerfold'' by the J. Geils Band$ led to this, I'd never have asked the that didn't take long now, "Hang Fire" by the Roll4l.g Stones question. Ick. 4. For Those About "Heat of the Moment" by Asia Salute You by AC/DC-col
3. "Key Largo" by Bertie Higgins ­
''Love Plus One'' by Haircut One that they were lying when 
another lousy tune to blame on Florida.
Hundred "Rock 'n' Roll Ain't Noistl
(A later Higgins release was called
"Spirits of the Material World" by couple albums back. · 
"Casablanca." What can we expect
the Police 5. Diver Down by Van f i 
next, "The Maltese Falcon"? I can't
"Sweet Dreams" by Air Supply for slightly over a minute !
wait.)
"Take It Away" by Paul McCartney "Happy Trails," an exer1 "That Girl" by Stevie Wonder 4. "Mirror, Mirror" by Diana Ross -in~ pleasure bordering o: 
"When All is Said and Done" by chtsm. That's five bad aU;
her third straight Bottom Ten-worthy
Abba for these guys... a more!
single (previous trash were ''Endless 
The Top-Ten LPs of 1982 than having five bad sini
Love" and "Why Do Fools Fall In 
1. Tug of War by Paul McCartney -like Diana Ross. But ,
Love'') from a career which may be 
finally, despite the ho-hum ''Ebony and unfortunately, are yelpinj
slowly sinking thanks to such inferior 
Ivory," the kind of album we've to the bank. I
material. 
expected from him since 1970. 6. A/do Nova -this I 
2. 
Love Over Gold by Dire Straits -5. "The Beatles' Movie Medley" -a dian's debut album cons( who said songs have to be short to be poorly-e~it~d, sped-up-in-pa~t comp~la­copy evey successful Ca good? Another fine achievement by a tion of ongmal Beatie recordmgs which currently recording (LoveJ band which has yet to release a bad "Capitol" -ized on the recent medley al.), and in the process record. craze. Enough to make any true Beatie exciting as downtown So1 

3. 
Mirage by Fleetwood Mac -a fan sick. a.m. cross between the near-radical Tusk 6. "Yesterday's Songs" by Neil 7. Pictures at Eleven b) and the pop sound of Rumours and yet Diamond -one of Diamond's most -Led Zeppelin without th• not sounding excessively like either wretched recordings ever to crack tlhe with the lead. Never one. Top 20 by a man who has put out many ground. 

4. 
The Concert in Central Park by such songs since joining Columbta 8. Good Trouble by Simon and Garfunkel -these Juys Records in 1973. Yet somehow they wagon -remove the new i reunited for one concert and like the sell. Don't ask. have the "best" of REO !I result so much they decided not to 7. "American Music" by the Pointer prior ten albums. un-reunite. They still sound good. Sisters -another group on a downhill 9. Pn·vate Auditon by II 

5. 
Combat Rock by the Clash -and slide since 1970s successes. Anyway, to be taken almost lite;··: this one actually had two hit singles! It most of today's best music comes from generally, and dese1ve also had greater success than any prior Britain and Australia, and as long as They have nothing left, s.l 


Clash album. records lil~e this come out, that will 10. Reel Music by the·. 
6. Business As Usual by Men At remain the case. music isn't bad, but if y~ Work -a rarity, an album by one of the 8. "Muscles" by Diana Ross-for the novice Beatles fan, you aJ "new music" groups that is more than second year in a row, she places two And not only that, the a a hit single and so much filler. singles m the Bottom Ten. Had "Work worse than those on 
' 
7. The Nylon Curtain by Billy Joel -That Body" made the Top 40, you'd releases. A "reel" ripofl broadening his horizons from New York find that in this list, too. Not since the to the rest of the world, he produced last five Partridge Family singles has possibly his best (but least commercial) anyone released five singles so abso­recent album. lutely horrible. Get a clue, Diana. 
...198~
8. Hot Space by Queen -a vastly 9. "Crimson and Clover" by Joan underrated and ignored record, yet J ett and the Blackhearts -if she really shows Queen at its near-best. It's a loves rock 'n' roll like she claims to, 

.. 
The Observer Features Section 
Wednesday ,December15,1982-page 7 
Rock Trivia Bows Out 
This is the last ever rock trivia quiz which will appear in The Observer under my byline. I promised I'd go out in a big way, and so I will. Below are fifty questions, all of which deal with songs which hit number one on the Billboard charts between January 1, 1955 and December 18, 1982.All you must do is identify each song by ntle and artist. I you can do so, there is a little more than personal satisfaction involved this time. To thank all my fans, a $25 prize will be awarded to the one(s) who can answer the most questions correctly. 
• 
Entries will be accepte? from nt_:arl~ anyone; :md. !!!!.iy be subi.iitted untd january 14, 1983, which gives you all Christmas break to look them up. Submit them to the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune, or send them (via campus mail if on campus) to: Trivia Quiz 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
And here are the questions that will produce the payoff, for which anyone (except me) 1s eligible. (Don't expect any help from the author.) 
1. 
This song was based on a melody written by Mozart when he was six years old. Also, the group recording this late-1950's record never again appeared on the charts. 

2. 
A duet "created" by a Louisville station manager after noting the simi­larity between their versions of the song. It became a number one hit there; then, Columbia had the two record a new version of the song together, and that went all the w.ay nationally. 

3. 
a song recorded in 1963 by a group headed by a Niles, Michigan, man, 1t bombed then, but was discovered by a Pittsburgh disc jockey (Bob Mack) in 1966. 

4. 
the only act to have Top 20 singles hits every year of the 1970's had only on1of them hit number one (in 1976). 


. This 1960 number-one recently be arne the official song of a Southern state. 
6. 
When this record came out, it or­iginally described the protagonist as "one hell of a man." Unfortunately, the radio mores of 1961 would not permit that, and the line was changed. It then went to the top. 

7. 
This band's first single hit number one for six weeks. It was supposedly a signal of a new-wave boom much like the earlier disco boom, but the former did not happen. 

8. 
Btl/board expanded its charts to a 


...Qnd the answets to last week's quiz 
Here are the answers to last week's quiz, for ,your information. 
1. 
probably moot · "]essie's Girl" by Rick Springfield • 

2. 
don't mind the maggots ­''Shattered'' by the Rolling Stones 

3. 
masturbation · "Give Peace a Chance" by the Plastic Ono Band 

4. 
Pacific Palisades · "Sutfin' U.S.A." by the Beach Boys 

5. 
B-17 -"Please, Mr. Please" by 


Top 100 in November of 1955. The first week it existed, this was the number one record, by a group whose lead singer went on to become host of a Philadelphia variety show. 
9. So called "underground" music became legitimate when this record by 
a California-based band hit number one. one week. . . . 
in the summer of 1967. It had been edited to 2:52 from its original length of 
6:30 fro AM airplay. 
10. 
A song about a rat which hit the top in 1972. 

11. 
This song-l:':':!.~ lift~~ fr~i.. t~1e soundtrack of the Irwin Allen movie generally considered to have launched the disaster-movie craze of the mid­1970s. 

12. 
This number-one song, co-writ· ten by Kenny Nolan and Bob Gaudio, was to be released on this artist's then-current label, Motown, but they thought it not commercial enough. It then went on to become the first number-one for the new Private Stock label. 

13. 
The first rock-era number-one by a British performer was t.his instrumen­tal (clarinet solo, no less) which peaked there in 1962. 

14. 
A singer who had problems with stage fright told one of tile guest musicians on the session (a star in his own right) that if this record hit number one, he would go on stage with him in New York that November--never expecting the song to peak there, as he had been thwarted in all prior attempts at a chart-topping single. (P.S: He kept his word.) 

15. 
a song based upon words from the Book of Ecclesiastes by a group originally known as the Beefeaters. 

16. 
One of the most successful groups of the 1960's, their last number one, a the end of 1969, had an ironic title, as the lead singer left the group after this record's success. 

17. 
the biggest foreign language hit in American chart history, it was sung entirely in Italian. 

18. 
This was the only song composed by John Lennon and Paul Me Cartney and recorded by the Beatles to hit number one in a remake version and that featured Lennon on guitar and backing vocals. 

19. 
This singer had been in the Army for two years, but he had not been forgotten. This was his first new recording upon his return, and it went straight to the top . 


Olivia Newtr-n-J ohn 
6. 
new Constitution · "Won't Get Fooled AGain" by The Who 

7. 
Swarthmore · ''Creeque Alley'' by the Mamas and the Papas 

8. 
spandex jackets. "I.G.Y. (What a Beaunful World)" by Donald Fagen 

9. 
I want a Hula-Hoop · "The Chipmunk Song" by the Chipmunks 

10. 
Beelzebub "Bohemian Rhapsody'' by Queen_ 


20. The oldest person ever to hit number one did so in 1964 with a version of the title song from a hit Broadway musical. 
21. When this song hit the top, it 
became the first by an Australian rock band ever to do so--and then only for 
22. 
A ~on~ which hlt the t~p m 1968 was peaking JUSt as the l~ad smger w~s Ot;l h1s way to serve h1s country m 

V1etnam. As a result, the group was unable to tour in support of the record, and could never fo!l~-:: it i.ip as :;~\:c~ssfuily. · 

23. 
At the time, this was the longest-lived chart-topper of the 1970s (eight weeks). It was a highly controversial record because of its sexual message; some stations deleted verses, other banned it outright, but they failed to stop this song on its way to the top. 

24. 
This was originally recorded by Scott English under a different title. Two years after that version bombed, a singer, pianist, and jingle-writer took his retitled version to the top for his first big hit. · 

25. 
'he began his career as a Buddy Holly sound-alike. As such, he had a number-one in 1962 with a song he originally recorded in 1959 on a small local label. It was a song about a girl. 

26. 
The first single by a duo from an album named after a chemical symbol. 

27. 
An instrumental song, with only the same word repeated three times as lyrics. 

28. 
In 1978·79 this record spent six weeks at the top . in three different segments. 

29. 
The only performer from South Africa ever to have a chart-topper did so in 1968. 

30. 
This number-one single in late 1966 was the most expensively-recorded single record in history (not including songs lifted from LPs). 

31. 
The only Christmas record to top the charts since 1955; a NOVELTY song. 

32. 
Capitol Records originally passed on the Beatles, but they didn't pass on the British group which had only one hit for the label · and that not until almost two years after the song's original release, on a subsidiary, Tower Records. 

33. 
When this record hit number one in 1979, it made the performer the only one ever to top the charts with both a vocal and an instrumental. 


34. 
Identify the other record which goes with question 33. 

3
5. The only record in all history to hit the top on two separate chart runs, in 1960 andlagain in 1962. 

36. 
In all rock history, the act which holds the record for the most consecu­tive number ones has six. Name the sixth. 

3
7. The first of these spent more weeks in the top 20 than any record since 1957. 

38. 
This West German disco group known for its sparse use of hte English lan~uage hit number one with one of the1r tunes in late 1975. 

39. 
This early-1966 chart-topper came about by taking a nearly two-year-old recording and overdubbing bass, drums, and electric guitar to make it sound like ''folk rock.'' The group went on to great success. 

40. 
The act which has more number ones than any other, their 19th featured a bum piano chord. 

41. 
This same act's only number one in 1966 featured a backing chorus of "frere]acques." 

42. 
A group known for its bombast on record had its first number one with a sparsely-produced pseudo-rockabilly number. 

43. 
The biggest-selling group in the history of the world only hit the top once in America, in 1977. 

44. 
When this teen idol had a number one in 1971, it became the first time in the rock era any son~ hit number one twice by different arusts. 

45. 
Name the original version that hit the top in 1963. 

46. 
The first British group to hit number one did so with an instrumental in late 1962, and never got close again. 

47. 
This critically-scorned group, after four years of trying, fmally came up with a number one in 1973 after teaming up with producer Todd Rundgren. 

48. 
This record by a one-hit-wonder duet hit number one in Nebraska in 1967 before becoming a national chart-topper two years later. 

49. 
The backup band for many Kenny Gamble-Leon Huff produced records had a biggie of their own in the late spring of 1974. 

50. 
A 1966 record which intentionally tried to sound as if sung through a megaphone; needless to say, it was this band's only substantial hit. 


.....f _ _..._ 
_..__. --=-..:w:------·~~~ 
~ ISportS =B===
..?:=e(=~=,~~l'er:.=,~=u~=he=As=so(=·ia=tect::;:Pr=e$s===========W=ed=n=es=da=y=~D:;:Ie=ce=m=b=er=15=~=19=8=2=-p=ag=e=8 
'Bear'to step down 
Alabama's Paul "Bear" Bryant, whose teams have won more games than any coach in the history of college football, will resign today and will be replaced by Ray Perkins, ccack of the National Football League's New York Giants, informed sources told The Associated Press last night. Efforts to reach both Bryant and Perkins were unsuccessful, but sources close to both men confirmed rumors that had been circulating throughout the day on several fronts. Joint announcements reportedly will be made Wednesday in Tuscaloosa, Ala., and at Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J .. AP · · 
Super Bowl XIX to Stanford 
National Football League owners yesterday selected Stanford Stadium in the San Francisco suburb of Palo Alto for Super Bowl XIX in 1985 and the Louisianna Superdome in New Orleans for Super Bowl XX in 1986. The 1985 play date is Jan. 20 and the 1986 date is Jan. 26. "There was a suggestion that we go to Houston in 1987, but we did not pick beyond 1986 at this time," said NFL Commissioner Pete Rozelle. "We will go beyond that within a year probably, picking for 1987 and afterwards." The 1983 Super Bowl will be played Jan. 30 in the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, Calif., with Super Bowl XVIII in 1984 set for Tampa Stadium home of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers.-AP 
Fencers start run in East 
Mike DeCiccos Notre Dame fencers begin their season after the turn of the year. Their season-opening Eastern swing will find them at Harvard and MIT Jan. 10. The next day, they'll fence at Pr~nceton, and ~m the 12th, go to the Big Apple to go agamst Columbta and NYU. · The Observer 
Grapplers to endure taxing break 
The Notre Dame wrestlers will try to survive a very taxing break. Two day~ afte~ Christmas,_ the Irish will be_at the Midlands Champwnshtps at Palaune, Ill. !hey_ wtll wrestle at Carthage, Min_n. Jan. ?. a~d at the Umverstty of Chicago Jan. 5. The Ohvet lnvnauonal rounds out the Christmas and New Year's schedule for the ND grapplers. -The Observer 
Belles to swim Albion 
Scott Trees' Saint Mary's swim team will host Albion tonight in a Il?eet at the Angela Athletic Facility. The Belles are hoptng to bounce back from an opening loss to Valparaiso. · The Observer 
••• G LIT 
continued from page 12 ACC . (naturally) by 5-4, 6-4 margms. "of course, Tech will be gunning for us, especially after what happened last year.'' summarizes Smith. "We know what they are like, having played them earlier in the year. They are quick and strong up front and are very physical. "We will be going into the tournament as decided under­dogs, which we were last year. But I'm sure our team will be ready; an athlete always looks forward to the next chance to compete, especially when things haven't gone well the rime before.'' After the tournamem, Notre Dame wtll be on the road again the following week against Lake Superior State on Jan. 7 and 8 before returning home to play Miami (Ohio) on jan. 14 and 15. 
The Observer w111 accept class1f1eds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 430 pm. However. class•fieds to appear 1n the next •ssue must be recenvea by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to InsertiOn All claSSifleas must be prepaid. 
e1ther 1n person or through the <nail
Ciassifieds~ 
/ 
Lost between Dllot and D!llon, Need RIDE TO CLEVELAND WISCONSIN bound? Need a HEY DESIREE' We know that TO JACK. THERES!1..NOTICES Friday Dec. 10 If found please for break. Can Leave 4:00 ride to Appleton (preferably) or it is you who does expenmenrs :VtlCH:\EL C.. BILL. DA \'I D call Moira at 115055 (SMC( Tues. CaiiJalk l'i88 Milwaukee. Can leave Dec. 18 for the space shuttle. So why G .. flt-.1. DAVID K. PAUL. after 4 p.m. Call Rick 1177. not give the Observer an RON. STEWART. Need a ride to Rochester or interview' BERNARDO. M:\RTH:\. TYPING. Jackie Boggs, 648-FOUND: One calculator in the Buffalo for X-Mas break. Will KATHLEEN. MICHAEL ~1. il793 language lab. See Mr. Abilli in share usual. Please call Terry AND FRANK, YOU'VE BEEN Room 250 O'Shag. at8774. Can leave 12-214 p m. Need ride to Pittsburgh or Dearest Karlene: (ALL OF YOU) A REAL PLEA~ ITPING AVAILABLE -Thank you. Wash. D.C. on 18th or 19th. The semester is coming to an SURE TO TEACH · Al'<D 287-4082 Call John 117 end. You've been great! LEARN WITH. BEST OF 
Though we gona say goodbye LUCK ON FINALS AND THE LYONS FOODS ALES for the Xmas break, Darling, I NEX f THREE YEARS DELIVERS PIZZA TO ALL FOR RENT EASTERN PENNA. -§ride promise you this:I'll send you MARCIA SCANLON 
SOUTH QUAD DORMS needed -Along I-80 east to Ride needed to Rochester or all mv love everyday in a lener 
DL'RING FINALS WEEK. Poconos for X-mas. Help me Binghamton, N.Y. or E. Pa. on sealed with a kiss. Love you CALL l8'i3 BETWEEN 9 AND Student Housing · Clean get there. Am able to leave 1-80 for Xmas. Wanda 7770. always and forever I'II be II EVERY FINALS NIGHT11 ' Safe. $100/mo. 291-140'i 12/22. Will share all expenses 
:--·ouP'·•
(gas, driving)! Call Warren M.K. TIRED OF NOW at 1167!! Thanks. NED ONE RIDER TO ST. STUDY .STUDY .STUDY''' 
Near ND. 2-bdrm.. unfurnish­
LOUIS. I Wlli BE LEAVING GET OUT AND ROCK-N-ROLL ed, utilities paid less gas Call WED. CAli 1534 BETWEEN WANTED: One teddy bear WITH APEX :\T SENIOR BAR
ILOST/FOUND I 
11:30 AND MIDNIGHT. TONIGHT FROt-.1 10 I'lL 2
2'2-0261. need ride to Johnston or with blue eyes or a ticket to Pittsburgh Pa. for break. Can England... Man)· happy me­leave dec. 20. call Steph mont's of w1ne. glowing tire. 
ATTE!\:TlO!\' ALL
'~\'ERE YOU DRUNK AT Furn. Eff. room, utilities pd., 116798. Will share usual. Thank vou and I'II neve~ forget 
~14 CORBY SATURDAY near ND. $100 mo. 255-8505. you .. 
NEEDED: RIDE TO CINCIN1 RED-~LOODED (and RFD­~IGHP' If so, and you took 
NAT! ON WEDNESDAY HEADFDl:'IID \!ALES''''' (DEC. 22)-CAli SUEII 1759 -Enn \laric O'Connor (alw~mv Levi's 1eans jacket by 
accident PLEASE return it' 1 E:-.tOC) will be celebrdting her2 BR furnished apt. for rent in PLEASE HELP' Need ride to 22n<l hirrhda1 e::rrll' this vear
Sze 34. N D. button on pocket MY L.\ST WILL AND TES I'~
graduate building of ND Avr.. DC after 4pm 12/21 Maura NEED RIDERS TO MINNEA' so Jon' 1 rni~s vuur chanct"-[Jke
and N Y Giants key chain with .\1\!ENT ·Since you all say that
Apts. $360 plus electric. Can x2244 POLIS AREA FOR XMAS. I a ~rud,· break· and gtve her 1
room kevs m pocket. The I'm gone fnrevt>r. I guess l
move in before Christmas. WILl:. BE LEAVING MONDA1
jacketv I gor is HUGE, and b-d1l'' Ktss' ' 1 I ines formwg
have to write a wdl. mo -rke
Large enough for four people. AROUND 4 O'CLOCK. CALI 
<'Utsi·~· ~2'> P.E .. so be there:''
m1ne ha' great 'entimental mv hoc rollers. les · mv boots.
Call Nadia or Madeleine after 1534 BETWEEN 11:30 AND
value. plus I'm freezing. Call Need ride ro Kansas City or stance -my car fur the stance
II at 287-4644. MIDNIGHT 
· '·6<4. H051 or 8055 PLEASE or central Missouri on Dec. 18 or ·; rud reconcilianons i"1ou're 
Enn·
drop tn Lost & Found. 19. Will share usual. Call SMC go1ng out for pizza .AG.\JI'JJ). 
• 4094. RIDERS wanted to MN Dec 2~. r>n~tle and carolie -ffi'-,dcton, ,:.;\>l'r ,: tnr rhe abu...;t". bur \~)U rt: ft·isr\ <·nuu~l1 '" hannie It;·
288-1917, Kim .ll!J anv rolls of mulm~nt 
thanb for -liar mg and f, .,
rnunLhie change rnatw ·mv
WANTED lisrerllng and ,-,penallv h11
FOL'ND: Pentax Camera. Left '-''IH,rays and the rranquiti•:-· aiv.a'' rwrng rhere-aiter ~I!.
· n car on Green Field after a rhat wmes with sirting: in rh<· '!lffi('!llle nas (() put up w•th
h.1othall Game. Call Tom at DESPERATELY need a ride to WASHINGTON D.C. AREA -ne.uest room •n rh<· dorm . .1nd 
m.-' '' 'Happ' b-day and thank,
II 78. DALLAS. Last final the 21st. Student desperately in NEED '"'·the roomte-al! rhe beers 1 
'
Need Ride To Comuctlcut For Will pay the usuals. Please call OF A RIDE HOME FOR THE '•aven \ udlr-ct.-d vet P"" the for !->nng a tnend 11 ' 1 
L\l\T \J.! ­
Christmas Break. Please Call Stacey at x4 594. HOLIDAYS! ! ! Please call Paui ;,,gge't Single on suuth qu.1d. 
CR(
I left mv gloves in Moreau Dan At 6824 anytime. at 1167. Can leave 12/20 rnc-rrv x-mas. 1 i<>v~ vou all . Hall. .Not verv melodic, but or later. the truth. Acn1ally, I left my black gloves and . grey hat \X' ASHINGTON DC AREA PITISBURGHERS: RIDERS PLF '..;E HELP' I need a nde underneath a chatr in 114 Need a ride on December '2'2. · needed evening of Dec. 18!! !'lleed I rider to Richmond. VA t<> T:\MPA, FL for X-MAS .\1oreau on Tuesday night a.fre Call Kathleen at. 232-n3,i... Call Jiin at 8921!! Riders needed co TWIN CITIES Lt·a,·ing Tue<, 12-21 ar -._w Plr<J'<· call Tnnv. 3079-3082­choir rehearsal. If you found Mon. Dec. 21. Call Julie SMC-a.m Call Chm \.i"4 307g. fhanks. · them. bring them to the ND 4371 Observer oftlce or call 288-1822 PORNOGRAPHIC MATERIAL GOODBYE E':ERYONE 
Dear 111 81-rd: Mavbe Santa
or 239-5313 (leave a message). Riders wanted· to Derroi-t .area AND PARAPHERNALIA FOR :\ND HAVE A TIME' . T.C.N. or points east along J,.W; SAl£. Great ptices, discount Ride needed to Chicago Sat. 12 wdl gtve ·me my. grade"" 1how s thar for an all-encom­Departure will be .ill the. late rates. Sale starts after xmas if I R<"puhltcans wouldn · t like that passing Xmas peronsP) 
LOST: Glasses in a powder­afternoon on Dec. ft): 'Call Taii wnuld the1·) \X'ell. a> long
make i~ home IO JERSEY to as blue case (large lenses, tortoise at 23\)-5313 or 7981 late ,ar pick up hardware. Can leave Ride neede to Chicago Sar. u's nor ar· the:' <'Xp<'nse of tht­
night.' ·
shell and gold frames) probab­after 4 oii llst or on the 22nd. 12-18-82 after 4 p.m. Mike fed.. Thev wouldn ·t. Thanks STILI. THEY RIDE 
..· ,.m!r'.
ly between Farley and the Call Mad Mark at 1725 8435. t(lr lh<' "epi" Gram.:\.:\. :\cruallv, still thev · er. I-neefl library. If found, please call a nde. · home for break. Off to Sue 6736. NEED RIDE TO DAUAS' FT. the Philh area or anywhere 
WORTH.TX., OR ALBU1 RIDERS WANTED: MNPLS/ 
resembling (or ntar) 'uch QUERQUE,N.M. FOR XMAS STPL LEAVE 12/21 FOR SALE pia< e I can leave next week. If
AM 
Last Friday night a black .\,>ra ,. }han \'t·r Bcrknwc-'
BREAK. CAN LEAVE; !Z-!4 RETURN 1/11 LAIRD EDMAN 1uu have room call Tim dl
schwinn "beach cruiser" type ... t·lt. ,ft-"r ru~. red ar 2. _;'>J p rn 1.1n
P M CALL DAMON ODE AT 2?Z-5419 2MH-I1-122 or lea,.,, a messagt" at
btke was taken from behind the For Sale: refngerator 2 cubtc [),.,. l~. I•JH2. \\ •rneS>t'
GOSHEN COliEGE• 1·133· the (J/>sen:er (2.\''-~313).
ACC. If you have seen this bike fr. 6849 after 10 pm. n<Ht,cd nu .lisrernable change
3161, EXT. 213.
please call 8582. If it is Need ride to DENVER or 'n h1' .dreJch depleted mental returned ro Sorin porch no anywhere .around there. Want .md ph1·-.ca/ ulfldnlnn. P S. 
:O.t.C.I
questions will be asked. Ifl see WILSON DRIVEAWAY: to leave Dec. 18: Cll Raili \!n11 Chr1SIT1l<b evenunt­
mer\' Chnstmas' I love vou you riding it, I will kill you. Cats to major cities in the east; (pron. rily) 6947 PERSONALS alwar'. even vour chipmunk south, and west. You pay gas chc:<·b: (the other patr of
To· R.alond. Enn & Des, Barb.
and rolls only (plus refundable cheeks aren·r bad e11her)
kaue. Tern & .Jack, Ray, Tari,
deposit). Call Bob at 233-6495 Dj.\1.
Atlanta Moose, Greg. and everyone
Can I PLEASE have my new HELP! I NEED A RIDE TO PA 
Atlanta 
who has made this semesrer
black Calvin Klein down jacket FOR BREAK. CAN LEAVE 
Atlanta unique-Merry Christmas
back? · I'm freezing! ! It was 
WED. AFTER 4:00. CAli Need Ride to Atlanta on Dec ya'll' II . The Office would like to take 
last seen at South Dining hall MEG 7628
NYC NYC NYC NYC 22.Call Dave ar 6931 love, this "pporrulllt}' 10 wish all of last Thurs. {12/9). Please call 
Long Island Long Island you a very safe and happy
the yellow rose
x2858 if you have any know­HELP' Need ride to NYC, Ll DETROIT AREA I want to go To mv dear big bro: Chnstmas break. Merry Xmas ledge of its whereabouts. area for Xmas break. Can leave on a suburban plunge over Thanks a lot for all your ffrom Llody Hardin. Jim 
12-break, but I need a ride. I can help. You have made this l'lw Oh,l'n t'r Chr.-1ma' B,dl MacLennan, Joe Maugeri, and 'iosr: A gold ladies Seiko watch 19. will share usual. Please call leave 12/21. Thank you Laurie semester more than bearable. r"r11gh1 fk there. t·xuung Marti' Tyrie. .1nd remember, "'lth a black leather band. 8040 dt·r;ub 111 tht' 11tf1Le let·,-be careful out there ... 
Ann at SMC 4287 Lil sis 


The Observer Wednesday ,December15 ,1982-page 9 
• • • Won1en 
continued from page 12 
a sub-standard 1-3 start under 
coach Mary Breise. 
The Jan. 6 game at George­town's cozy McDonough Arena will feature junior Diane Toliver. The shooting guard has led the Hoyas with 11 points a ~arne. The Hoy as power game ts keyed by 6-1 center Alyson Westbrooks, who adds 11 points and seven boards a night. Freshman Jenny Bendall has helped out up front, sweeping five ~ebounds _a game. 
-Winmng at Cole Field House Jan. 8 is an admitted tall order for DiStanislao. Maryland is currently ranked No. 3 in the country, and coach Chris Weller has the awesome per­sonnel with which to work. The undefeated (6-0) Terrapins return all-America forward candidates Debbie Lytle and ] asmina Perazic along with 6-1 center Bo Pearman and guards Marcia Richardson and Rachelle Willett. 
All the roles played on this 
team, however, are interchang­
able, with Perazic and Pearman 
sweeping the boards, 
Richardson rurning mostof the plays, and the 5-10 Lytle doing lUSt about everythin~. The· Terps' scoring attack ts highly balanced, with just about every starting player getting her 
share of points. 
·'you go into a game at Cole 
Field House hoping to make 
Maryland respect you as a 
basketball team -and that'll be 
tough. We're a big game on 
everybody's schedule ... and 
that includes Maryland's and 
Louisiana Tech's. When they 
hear all the hvoe about Notre 
Dame upgrading its program, 
you come in having something 
to prove, 'cause every.bo~y· s 
gonna come at you swmgmg. 
And you've gotta swing back 
just as hard. · 
"I don't think we're a good team -yet,'' says DiStanislao. "This team is still in search of itself. They don't know how good they can be. " 
G;;v-;i Ai~;i F7ee1 
t Going home on Break? · t 
t we have vehicles going to tt several points across the U.S.t 
Call WILSON DRIVEAWAY tt Bristol,lndianat 674-6794 t 
t t 
BCJ'Qowettg fptr aQQ occagLo~g" 
Come in and Browse 3)7 Lincolnway 232-3354 
B~t after tonight's game, it won t be East Carolina or Villanova or Maryland in the forefront of the players' minds­it'll be finals time for them just like the rest of us. ' 
' 'On the Catholic school report card, I'd give 'em a C," says Mary D. ofher pupils' first semester basketball grade. "But, I'd give them a check­m~r.k for having a lot of ablltty ... a lot of which has yet to be touched. I just want to see more effort. 
"But it's December-and the coach isn't paid to be happy with her team in December.'' 
... Men 
continued from page 12 
jnreresting break for Notre 
Dame basketbaH fans. 
"We've given the freshmen 
their first taste of college 
basketball," says Irish coach 
Digger Phelps. ''Now we show 
them what it's like to play on 
the road. 
"This is our chance to show 
how well we've learned the 
lessons of the past month. It's 
our chance to win a big game 
and build confidence for the 
rest of the Jear. We learned 
what we ha to do, so now we 
go ou~. and try to get the job 
done. 


GOOD TIME 
;) DI77A 
I ~~~n, 
wishes eueryone a 
Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year 
v-..,................,...._.....,.~~,..,....,~.... 

' 
Notre Dame defenseman Rob Ricci tries to Great Lakes Invitational Tournament. It skate away from an Ohio State player in a won't be easy, as Louie Somogyi reports on game last weekend. The Irish will attempt to the back page. [Photo by Ed Carroll] salvage their season with a victory in the 
r""l,.--·---~._..-::L_..._.._.._.~ --:x:---·-~-"T----..~----~r · 
\ 1"H•ppy-~ 1"Happr 1"Happy-~ 1"'!...appy-"Happy-~ } 
~ "Holrd•Yi "Holrdeyj "Hol1dayj "Holrday, "Holiday, \ 
1 ~ ~ ~ St1lllook1ny ~on that special .... : t1 ~ 
~ •===A­
~ 1 ~ ChQIStmaS
l musical hoRns: (jl~t?? ~ n.o. a1R hoRn ~ •€LectROnJC, plays a ~ VaRiety 0~ tunes ~ 
~ AI Veldman's Standard ~ 405 Dixie, Roseland, 46637 ~ 272-5558 
. 
~ 
~ ~,~-~---~---rR€€ 
~ ;-)~~~~~G~~~~ ~ We take mail orders too 
.................__..........................~..........,...........~...... ...,.. ................................................................................,................. 
Tucson, Arizona -A Place in the SunENGINEERS 
-==4======Locallnterviews in===#===­December for Hughes 
Hughes is one of the world's most sophisticated facilities for advanced missile technology. 
Some of the world's most advanced missile systems were developed here in the early 50's. Today, the highest level of missile technology has set the standard for tomorrow's sophisticated electronics. 
Hughes is developing AMRAAM. A system so highly developed. it can chase a-target beyond visual range. 
TOW, Maverick. Phoenix and more. Incredible technology! And Hughes is one of the few companies that can offer such diverse and innovative technology right here at home. 
Hughes people have the option of a wonderful continuing education program. Here at the University, they may pursue college degrees or advanced studies. Be part of a company with more than 1 ,500 projects underway. 
Current openings exist for engineers with degrees in EE, ME, Chem E, Physics or Metallurgy. 
Microwave Design Engineers 
RF/Microwave Test Equi.pment Design 
Production Support Test Engineers 
Test Equipment Design Engineers 
Hybrid Support Engineers 
Process Development Engineers 
Hybrid Microelectronics 
Production Engineers 
Project Engineers 
Process Engineers 
If you'd like to be part of a story that's still unfolding, write yourself in. 
For an interview in the local area, please call collect (602) 746-6200 or send your resume to: Cathleen Woodward, Hughes Aircraft Company, Professional Employment, P.O. Box 11337, Tucson, AZ 85734. 
CrealiloB a new K!Orld with electronics 
r------------------,
I I 
!HUGHES! 
I 
~------------------j
HUGHES .A.tRCRJ.FT COMPANY 
II==:I*=======MISSlLE SYSTEMS-TUCSON ====i==• 
Proof of U.S. Citizenship Required Equal Opportunity Employe( 

_-4 llt:sg 10  \  
~  ~ 
.  
mus1caL b1qrtal watch:  t  
•leO QuaRtz  ~  
•n.O. alaRm  ~  

.ChOICe 0~ COLOR ~ 
•mens OR womens \ 
~ \ ~ ~ 
i ~ 
With each PURChase ) exp1Res0ec.31.l982 ~ 
~ 
~................................,..~ ............z 
• 
The Observer Sports Special Wednesday ,December 15,1982-page 10 
P.O. Box Q: Dear Sports Editor. • • 
EDITOR'S N01E: Since this football season began, I have been soliciting your response to the opinions expressed in The Observer this fall. The response from the campus, alumni and fans has been heavy. Now, after the football season, we are presenting a cross-section of the opinions received. 
Dear Mr. Needles: 
I read with chagrin the well written but candidly poorly thought out article by yourself concerning the Irish loss to Penn State on Novembr 13th. Having not graduated from, nor attended, Notre Dame, perhaps I might be able to analyze wnat really happened on November 
13th as well as what has transpired in Coach Faust's two years at Notre Dame from a slightly different perspective than yours. 
Notre Dame entered this year with at best, a realistic expecta· tion of goin~ 7-4. When Coach Faust and his staff were able to beat (out coach?) the University of Michigan -visions of sugarplums began to dance in the heads of students and the alumni of Notre Dame. The simple fact of the matter is that the student athletes recruited by Notre Dame in the class of 1981, (only three players draft­ed by the pros) and the class of 1982 and 1983, have not been comparable in ability, skill and sppek to those at Michigan, USC, Penn St~te,_ Ge.orgia, 
Each week, The Observer sports staff predicts the outcome of the week's major college . football games. Records ~e compil­ed as to how each writer does a__ gatai;nst the spread. HOME 
TEAM is in capitalletter:s.
.f 
HOI;IDAY BOWL: Ohio State (.)ver Brigham Young by6TANGERINE BOWL: Auburn over Boston College by 6 
ALOHA BOWL: Washington o:verMaryland by 2 ...........·.·.·····
SUN BO\VJ.,r~ overNo~Catolin•by5 ····.• ·~1ilii!!!ii LIBERTY:.BOWI.;.:•Aiabama{)vC'.t'•lllinois by6 ... ··..•..··· GATOR }lOWL! 8-0RIDA ST~TE over West Vir~ by 6 
BLUEBONNET BOWL: Arkansas over Florida by 5 . HALL OF FAME BOWL~ Vanderbilt over Air Force by7 PEACH Tennessee over Iowa by 1 
·COttON · •SOUTHERN METHOPIST vs; 
UCLA, SMU, Ptttsburgn, etc. Query, how many Notre Dame juniors and senwr would be starting for Pittsburgh, Penn State, or USC this year? This is not to demean these classes because players like Dave Duerson, Mark Zavagnin, Tom Thayer, Tony Hunter, Kevin Griffith, Larry Moriarity, and Bob Clasby all "might" play at 
usc. 
It seems to be self-evident that Notre Dame will only win a National Championship when the quality of its student athlete (particularly at the skill posit­ions) and its overall team speed improves dramatically. 
It occurs to me that some of the articles written about Coach Faust and the Notre Dame team, in general, become self-fulfilling prophecies (i.e., if one unrealistically expects Notre Dame to beat Penn State and then they do not; who does the flame fall on? -I would suggest the blame rests with those who created the unrealistic expecta­tions and not the players or coaches). 
While freedom of the press may be in vogue on the cullege campus, it is a shame that "non-experts" such as your­self, are premature in evaluat­ing coaches who have specializ­ed in their field for years. 
In sum, based on your criteria, I would look for Coach Faust to "outcoach" Paterno on November 17, 1984, and with some luck, on November 12, 1983. I would suggest that you get behind the football staff so that Notre Dame can recruit the student athletes it needs to compete against the Air Force Academy. 
Waite B. Connolly, Jr. 
Dear Chris Needles: 
Our strong local dailies inform me that the relationship between The Observer and the coach's office is somewhat strained. The gentleman, a nice man to be sure, is learning that Notre Dame ain't high school. 
The most important admoni­tion in sports writing is "Make 'em Respect Ya." 
Will HARE DAVE DZIEDZIC 
someone or something with total disregardance for fact is the worst mistake a journalist can make, and even a causticDear Mr. Needles: pen cannot bail you out.
God made no one perfect. He did not make Blair Kid perfect. He did not make Gerry Faust Pat Reynolds perfect. He did not make me Zlhm Hall perfect, and he certainly did not make Chris Needles perfect. Such is life. Despite these facts, one may infer from your frequently irresponsible editor-It appears to me that Gerry is ials that we must expect a perfectionist and an impatient perfection from our 1982 foot· person. Like many of us, he ball team. . . . cannot accept 1981 season and 
Consistel_lcy iS important, the poor performances this year yet as no one iS pe~ect, no one against Arizona and Oregon. is perfectly consis~ent. It The quotes are those of a amaz~s me to see JUS_t how frustrated man and I'm sure he 
negative you can be agamst the ·: · ; · 
ver team that represents your ~idn t mean them 3:s they were 
ry h 1 1 · interpreted He himself took
and my own sc oo . tiS true, as h bl i: h 1981
I have said before, that our t e arne wr t e . season team (the whole team), does and he has not ~or. ~til he place indedd need criticism. But the blame on mdividual play-
support is also needed from the ers. . . . fans in turning out a successful Let s face lt -.for 1 ~82, lt was performance. your approach to rare_ to see us Its ted lO the top your editorials is not only ten lfl any pre-season poll. The Irresponsible, but it is also kno~ledgable Notre Dame f~n unprofessional and immature. realized that a 8-3 record m 
To say that the team has been 19~_2 WOt_Ild be arg?od_~~a~on. doing poorly is correct, but to Even after the remarkab~e tell us not to watch the USC victory over Pitt, we can sttll game is so selfish1 ~:~nprofes-lose an~ well might lose two sional, and unpatnouc to the more this season.. However, the very school which is trying to foundation is laid. ~the best give you an education is in very back-to-back recrultlng years 
poor taste. If I was your boss, I would promptly demand a public apology from yot~ just as Gerry Faust gave a public apology for his remarks about the press. The title of your editorial was, "Falcon Win a Laughing Matter." That is the same opinion I hold of your journalistic approach. 
-
I B h
AGau Hus /ian race a 
When will Chris Needles take the time to substantiate any of the captious remarks that he so righteously answers his allusive questions with? The only reason that I can come up with as to why he said what he did is 
that he let his cyncial rhetoric splash onto the page with the consultation of no one else but himself. 
Attempting to inchipate 
we ever had). Some of the best players on the field each week are our sophomores and fresh­men. Next year, and years after, we will look back on the Pitt ga0e and say that was our first big step to the top for both the tea~ and Gerry Faust as a colle~iate. coach. A_ powerhouse iS bemg ~olded m Faust's own way, and hom now on 9-2 seasons will be dis­appointments. 
Bernard]. Bteg '69 
Dear Chris, 
We want to let you know that the Air Force has one of its best teams in years. A great offense; they never quit. They want to beat Notre Dame very bad. 
Wt/1 Cunningham 
•
wtnners 
SKIPDESJARDIN RICH O'CONNOR CHRIS NEEDLES 
Sports Writer Exec. News Editot Sports Editor Emeritus Sports'Writer Sports Editor 
64·39-1 ,610 53-52-1 .504 52·53·1 .496 49-56-1 .483 47-58-1 .450 
Buckeyes Buckeyes . Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes ·Golden. Eagles Golden Eagles Golden Ea-gles War Eagles Golden Eagles ·H!lskies .Huskies Huskies Huskies Huskies 
Heels Y/ ·'Horns 'Horns 'Horns ·'Homs 
IUini·· Tide Tide··· illini Illini . 
Mo!lntaineers Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Seminole$ 
Hogs . HogsHo~ Hogs Hogs 
Falcons· Falcons FalcoQ.s Commodores Falcons 
Vols Vols Vols Vols Hawkeyes 
Panthers Mustang_~ Mustangs · Panthet$ Panthers. 
IheO~rver====================================== 
~~~~~==========================W=e=d=n=e=sd=a=y=,D=e=c=em==be=r=1=5=,1=9=8=2=-p=a=ge=l=l 
Doonesbury 
Garry Trudeau 

David }.Adams


Aspirin Man 
AsPI~I!JI'IA AfRIVES .:TIA ST IN n,.,£ TO sAVe co~A/(.. F'lt.OM 
SECOI'ItNG RAT 0/NNE~! 
IIIKr's O.K., 
CONTAK.. 
..... ­


The Daily Crossword 
12115/82
©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
ACROSS 24 Stockman's 1 Drenches agcy. 5 Mark of a 25 Billoi that 
healed steam you wound up? 9 Musical 29 Close-group fitting 
14 Burden 31 Shortly for Jack 33 Vaudevil· and Jill lian Eddie 
15 River in 34 Riata 
Brazil 36 Sought 16 Egg-shaped election as 17 Sicilian 39 American 
volcano general 18 Author 43 Nonetheless 
Paton 44 Lazy ­19 Stop (food tray) 20 Prepares 45 The sun 
to sail 46 -Nam 23 Sign of a 48 Author hit Millett 
Tuesday's Solution 
Campus 
7:30 p.m.--BASKETBALL, ND Women vs. Eastern Michigan, ACC 
8 p.m.--ND/SMC C&T DEPARTMENT PLAY, "Playwright's Premier," Little The­ater, Free 
8 p.m.--FILM, "To Catch a Thief," Engineering Auditorium, $1 
8:15 & 10 p.m.--GLEE CLUB CHRIST­MAS CONCERT, Washington Hall 
Fate 
Photius 

... 

f="INALS R£ALLY 
8LtW US AIJAY. 

Student Union presents Grace Kellyin: 
TO CATCH ATHIEF Dec. IS HIGH SOCIETY Dec. 16 
Don't Miss It II! 
8 pm .. Engineering Auditorium-$1.00 
51 Makemore palatable 
54 Cedar Rapids college 
56 Beverage 58 Snack for 
Ms. Muffet 61 Discover 64 Large trees 65 Honey of 
a home 66 Climbup 67 Arch 66 Roman road 69 Categorizes 70 Remainder 71 Snares 
DOWN 1 Pours forth 2 BWestems 3 Manacle 4 Smelting 
residue 
5 Sudden brief activity 
6 Bottle gourd 7 Island off Galway 
8 Mexican cattle spread 
9 Hotdrlnk 10 Public 11 Old bird 12 Twice, in 
music 
13 Pindaric 21 Navaho dwellings 22 8kings of 
England 26 Doubtful 27 Lunch hour 28 Move ina 
circle 30-Bator 32 Loop 35 Livestock 
feed 37 Roused from 
sleep 38 Zola name 39 Disorder 40 Acknowledge 41 Remove 42 Bakery 
items 47 Kind of track meet 
49 Destination ofHMS Bounty 
50 Grid team 52 School: Fr. 53 Adjusts 55 Beginning 57 Thosewho 
ogle 59 Wise herb? 60 Party of 
Tyler and Taylor 61 Follower 
of FOR 62 Glacial 63 Faucet 
~ior.Bar 
Christmns Pnrty Tonite 
Live music with APEX Specials all nite 
w ___,.._
_..,,._,._.__,..ce.....--·----~-------~ ~---~~~--~-­
--------~------~~-~-~ 
'• • • --1)""~. '? • ~-··,,,</{ '; ~~~­
~clr'(~J; .-h'I'F(' 
~orts . 7 wedn~:ay,Decemberl5,1982-pagel2 
Christmas break 
Men to play 'Cats in New Year 
By RICH O'CONNOR junior Brian Hubbard from Leading the parade of re­South Bend shares playing time 
Sports Writer mrnees is 6-10 senior forward 
with classmate Brian Mcilvain. 
Cliff ~ribus wh<? has averagedHubbard was last season's
While most students will be 16 pomts and SlX rebounds in 
leading scorer with a 12-point
enjoying the holidays with their his career. 
average, while Mcilvain led
families, the Notre Dame Teaming up with Tribus in 
Valpo in assists.
basketball team looks to im­Davidson's front court will be prove on its 4-3 record with And it doesn't stop there. 6-4 junior Kenny Wison (17
Competing for the two for­
home games against Valparaiso points, 9 rebounds this season). 
ward spots are seniors Dave
(Dec. 22), and William and At center for the Cats will be 
Luethy and Dave Wojciechow­
Mary (Dec. 30). The Irish start 6--6 senior Brian Rowan. 
the new with to ski and sophomore John Geary. And then there was one. The
year trips 
At center for the Crusaders,
Charlotte, N.C., and Philadel­game over break, 19th ranked 
transfer Larry Roby from Villanova.
phia to face Davidson and Villanova. Wabash Valley College via The Wildcats return 11 The Valpo game provides Bradley and senior Tom lettermen -four starters -from 
Benigni see action.
perhaps he only similarity to last year's NCAA final eight last season's suicidal break Next on the Irish schedule team that finished with a 24-8 schedule which featured road are the Indians of William and record -including a 48-46 win 
games at Kentucky, Missouri, Mary. Sixth year coach Bruce over the Irish last year. 
LaSalle, Virginia and San Parkhill laments the loss of This season's Wildcat hopes Francisco. three seniors from last year's center on the able bodies of two But it may not be that team, but four starters return. seniors -John Pinone and similar. Sophomore Keith Cieplicki Stewart Granger. 
The Crusaders lost six letter­has picked up right where he Pinone averages 17 points ment from last year's 9-18 left off at the end of his and seven rebounds a game. squad -includin~ their two top freshman campaign. Cieplicki Granger is a three-year starter scorers, Jeff Srmmons and averages 14 points and three for tenth year coach Rollie 
Randy Okrzesik. rebounds from one of the Massimino. A lightning-quick 
Third year Valpo coach Tom tribe's guard slots. Classmate guard, Granger averages 12 Smith, however, has assembled Tony Traver, a 1980-81 starter, points and six assists a game a group of five junior college has returned to claim the other for the Cats. transfers and two freshmen to guard spot after sitting out last At the second guard spot is replace them. season. Dwayne McClain. A 6-6 sopho­
One of the transfers, Mike William and Mary's front line more, McClain averages 11 
Thompson should contribute returns intact. Center Brant points a game. 6-9 classmate immediately from a guard spot. Weidner averages 16 points Ed Pinckney is the returning An all California Junior College and six rebounds a game. power forward, Pinckney ave­all-Star, Thompson averaged Fellow senior Mike Strayhorn, rages 14 points and eight 
seven points, two rebounds, 12 points per game career rebounds and he led the team in and four assists a game last average, and junior Herb blocked shots with 64. His 64 season at Merced College. Harris hold down the forward percent field goal s~oo~ing was 
At the other guard spot, slots. tops among the natton s fresh­men last season.
The Indians, members of the The remaining forward spotECAC South, will have 19 days will be shared by senior Miketo prepare for the Irish follow­Mulquin and freshman Harold
ing their own final exams. William and Mary will arrive at Pressley. 
The Wildcat bench is poss­the ACC with a 3-2 record. It
Women take on No.'3 Maryland 
ibly the strongest underwill be the first meeting
has scored 24 points a game 10 and freshman Katrina Massimino's tenure. Guards
! 
By MIKE RICCARDI between the two schools.
ECU's pre-finals contests. She Messenger. Frank "Happy" Dobbs and
Sports Writer And next are the Wildcats ­
expects to rank high in the Georgetown is a young team the Davidson variety. Gary McClain and front liners, 
soon-to-be-released NCAA stat­which may provide the Irish 7-·0 Chuch Everson and 6-11
Four starters return from last 
istics. The 6-0 Denkler shoots a with a bit of a breather (not to Wyatt Maker give the Wildcat's 
Having spent the past few year's team tht finished third in 
cool 64 percent from the field mention a tuneup for powerful excellent reserve strength.
weeks establishing itself as one the Southern Conference -and
and leads her team in rebound­Maryland). The Hoyas are off to all,
of the Midwest's leading advanced to the championship In it makes for_ an 
women's basketball ing, sweeping 10 boards an
outfits, game in the conference tour­
See MEN, page 9
outing. See WOMEN, page 9
Notre Dame will embark this nament. 
She leads a talented unit that Christmas break on a much is racking up some impressivemore difficult course. 
statistics. A pair of hard-nosed Great Lakes TourneyA national minefield has players, point guard Loraine
been planted, with East 
Foster (16.8 pps) and forwardCarolina, Villanova, George­
leers try to turn around season 
Darlene Chaney (6.6 foints, 6town and No. 3 Maryland the rebounds a game), wil play the 
opponents the Irish women will By LOUIE SOMOGYI it since Sept. 15, so a few days (13 total points) and sophomore 
ND game w1th injuries.
face after closing out the . Sports Wn'ter off should hopefully give every­Brent Chapman (12 total
Notre Dame's road tnp
pre-break part of lts schedule one a chance to regroup and poiints).
begins with a v~sit to o~e of the 
with Eastern Michigan tonight return fresh and ready for Two sophomores recovering rowdiest gyms 10 Amenca. '!he 
(tipoff 7:30). play."
Villanova Fieldhouse, affectton­There is no place like the from injuries are also expected Three out of the four oppo­ately known as ''The Cat­road for the hohdays. In the back of Smith's mind, to be major keys this year to nents saw NCAA or AlA W Well, at least that's true for of course, is the regrouping last unAock future Irish success.
house'' will play host to the
tournament action last year. the Notre Dame hockey team. year's squad made after the Paul Salem seemed to come
ND-Villanova matchup, one of
"We're looking for 40 solid After dropping two games to GUT. Gomg into the]oe Louis into his own last weekend as he
the most heated natural rival­
minutes in these games," says Ohio State at the Athletic and Arean last year with a 9·9-1 tallied three goals and an assist
ries in college sports. 
Irish coack Mary DiStanislao, mark, the team was a major
Convocation Center last week­against the Buckeyes. 
"The Cathouse can be just as was
whose record at Notre Dame crazy with 200 people scream­end, Notre Dame fell to a 1-8 disappointment since it "We as coaches couldn't be 
went above .500 after a pair of record this year at the ''fri­expected to do much better in happier for Paul,'' says Smith. 
ing as with 2,000," says Mary
wins this weekend. "We want D. "It's always a very tough endly" confines called home. the pre-season prognostica­''What with his shoulder injury 
tions. After rompig by a 6-2
to leave the East with people place to play. But it's the kind Last weekend's losses also and all, Paul has had some 
saying 'These Midwesterners of place we want to play at.'' dropped the Irish (4-12-0) to margin over Michigan in the frustrating times, but he fought were hungry.' We don't intend The 3-2 Wildkittens are last place in the 12-team opening game, Notre Dame thr9ugh it and couldn't be more to leave with our tails between paced by their guard tandem of Central Collegiate Hockey As­skated away with the champion­deserving of the success he has 
our legs.'' ship trophy with a 4-3 triumph achieved. ' ' 
senior Kathie Beisel and junior sociation. 
Notre Dame preps for its Nancy Bernhardt. Averaging 20 With a two week hiatus over Mich1gan Tech before an Last year's rookie of the year, 
Eastern swing with the East points a game in the early before the prestigous Great NCAA record crowd of 19.255. defenseman Sean Regan, has :Mindin~ the nets for Notre
Carolina game Dec. 30. going, Bernhardt's gunning Lakes Invitational Tournament also been recovering from an The game, oddly enough, is on December 28, the skaters Dame wlll be senior Bob injury this year and is hoped to
from the outer limits is a key to
I scheduled for the ACC as the 4 'Nova's game. Beisel sets up have a chance to lick their McNamara who has had 13 be fully recovered for the Great 
starts and freshman Mickey
~ Lakes Tournament. 
p.m. game preceding a men's most of Bernhardt's buckets, wounds before defending the Kappele who has started three 
tide won ''You hate to put pressure on
night contest. and adds nine points an outing. they last year at times. If Notre Dame hopes to
Mary D. and her good friend Coach Harry Perretta has had Detroit. only one player, but I ftrmly from college days, ECU coach to rebuild, as the front line from "More than anything else, re.l?eat last year's champion­believe Sean is the type of guy 
shlp, it will need outstanding
Cathy Andruzzi, will hook up in last year's AlA W national it's just a chance to get away who could take and turn this
r performances from its three top 
a meeting of major indepen­third-place team has been and then come back with some season around for us," says 
scorers, senior Kirt Bjork (19
dents designed to tune their graduated. However, Perretta renewed spirit and enthu­Smith. 
total goals and assists this year, respective teams for grueling has been getting decent pro­siasm," says Irish coach Lefty · 
second semesters. duction from senior Rosemarie Smith. "We have been going at but only one in the lst six See GUT, page 8 
games), junior Adam Parsons
Senior center Mary Denkl~r Burke, junion Andrea Burton 

