---------------------------·-~-----­
.SMC Library -page 3
' ' 



By BOB VONDERHEIDE 
News Assistant 
An early morning fire Sunday at Corby Tavern, Inc., 1026 Corby Ave., caused 550,000 in structural and material damage, according to the South Bend Fire Department. 
The tavern should be "fully opera­tional in three to four weeks depending on the weather," Corby's spokesman Harold A. Rowley Jr., said yesterday. He added that final work on the reconstruction con­tract will be completed today. 
The South Bend Fire Department report listed "heavy ceiling damage to the roof and rafters at the rear of the building with water and smoke damage throughout the bar area." 
The fire started in the furnace room where stored items such as liq­uor, plastic cups and supplies ap­parently spontaneously ignited, 
according  to a Fire  Department  
spokesperson  insisting  on  
anonymity.  

The spokesperson also said the fire moved up and across the ceiling to the rear of the building but the furnace "did not malfunction and this is definitely not an arson." Rowley also docs not suspect arson. 
Rowley said the fire department's "outstanding job" saved the building from complete destruction. Three tire trucks answered the 4:32 a.m. call and had the blaze under control within 4S minutes. 
Ifthe tire had not been contained, 
Plane search continues futile 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Salvage 
crews hoisted the tail of an Air 
Florida jetliner from the frigid grime 
of the Potomac River on yesterday, 
hut the achievement turned sour 
when the crumpled section failed to 
yield two llight recorders which 
could unravt:l the causes of last 
week's crash. 
Investigators were initially exul­tant when, after battling the frozen river for five days, divers managed to tic straps under the Boeing 737's tail and lift it from a crane on the bridge overhead. But the objects of the operation -the critical cockpit voice and flight data recorders ­weren't inside. 
With that, divers took to the water once more, but darkness forced suspension of the effort for another day. 
Authorities had expected to find the voice and data recorders, each contained in heavy metal boxes, within the recovered section. But when they probed the wreckage, they came up empty. Adisappointed Jim Burnett, acting chief of the Na­tional Transportation Safety Board, told reporters, "We don't have either one of them," when asked if the recorders were found. He said divers would try anew to find the recorders in the 27-foot-decp water. 
Police Inspector James Shugart said it was possible the recorders dropped hack into the ice-caked water as the blue, green and white tail section was being hoisted onto the bridge. 
$50,000damage 
Fire tetnporarily closes Corby's 
Lone gunman shoots 
U.S. military attache 
Rowley speculated, "We would have had to close until the summer." As it stands now, Corby's will open in about a month assuming the winter weather does not sl_ow the clean-up. 
Rowley, who serves as the 
tavern's business secretary, said the 
building will need an entirely new 
roof. Furniture and pool tables will 
also be replaced. 
"Anyone who is familiar with 
Corby's," Rowley said, "would just 
be shocked to see the damage. There 
is extensive damage to the roof." 
Corby's closed at 3:00a.m. Sunday 
and Rowley, who was not in Corby's 
at the time, said the employees had 
left by 3:15 a.m. No one was in 
The recovered piece -the length accident. of the two rearward windows -in­Meanwhile, the first offive surviv­cluded a fairly intact section of ing passengers was released from cabin. The rear door of the craft was the hospitaL Flight attendant Kelly partially open. But the belly of the Duncan was quoted by a hospital section was ripped open, and metal, spokesman as saying, "I don't think I 
scats and other debris spilled out as will fly as a career again." it slowly broke the surface under the The first lawsuit stemming from pull of the crane. the crash was filed late Sunday in U.S. 
NTSB member Francis McAdams District Court here. 
PARIS (AP) -Assistant U.S. Military Attache Lt. Charles Robert Ray was assassinated yesterday by a lurking gunman who police said fired a single shot into Ray's forehead and fled as the victim col­lapsed on a Paris sidewalk. 
The U.S. ambassador to France, Evan Grifft ith Galbraith, said the gun­man was "probably a professional and undoubtedly an experienced killer." 
Police said Ray was shot about 9 
a.m. as he walked alone to his parked car near his apartment in a fas­hionable distict. He wore civilian clothes and carried a small attache case found by his body. 
The only witness police found was a woman who saw the shooting from a distance on her way to work. She said she caught a back view of the killer fleeing on foot and described him as short with long hair and casual clothes. 
In Washingwn, President Reagan described the assassination as an act of international terrorism, saying Ray "gave his life in the line of duty as surely as ifhe had fallen in battle. 
"Our hearts go out to his family in their bereavement, and the wanton 
act of his murderers reinforces our 
determination to stamp out interna­
tional terrorism and prevent similar 
tragedies in the future," Reagan said. 
French President Francois Mitter­rand and Premier Pierre Mauroy, expressing outrage, promised an in· tensivc search to tlnd the assassin and offered to bolster security for 
U.S. Embassy staff. 
Galbraith said security for U.S. of­ficials in France would be reassessed because ofthe killing, since Ray "did not seem to be a target and it was not thought he ran any risks." 
Security was incre;u;cd for senior 
U.S. Embassy staff in Paris after an un­successful assault on U.S. Charge d'Affaires Christian Chapman last Nov. 18 by a gunman who escaped. Police said the tactics and descrip­tion of Ray's assassin were similar and that a 7.6S mm pistol was used in both attacks. 
Ray, 43, was survived by his wife Sharon, daughter Julie, 17, and son Mark, 15. He had been stationed in Paris with his family since August 1980. He was schooled in military intelligence, served in Vietnam and 
See GUNMAN, page 4 
noted the flight recorders could be of critical importance in learning why Flight 90, bound for Tampa, 
Manic depression
failed to gain altitude, clipped the busy 14th Street bridge and plunged into the river after taking off from National Airport. 
Patients battle highs and lows 
McAdams said the voice recorder was just about at the point where the By MICHAEL C. BUELOW tai section broke off from the 
Associated Press 
fuselage -"where the greatest 
amount of impact damage was" and he now believes that both devices MADISON, Wis. (AP) -Jennifer is a 35-year-old are "with a bundle of electrical secretary and mother with the spontaneous, subtle 
wires" still in the water. Each is humor ofa professional comedian. about the size ofa small briefcase. Her wide, animated eyes complement her positive, In all, 78 people were killed, 
robust voice and the picture she presents for the lis­including four motorists. tener. Four more bodies were recovered Today she yesterday. Police said two of those feds normal, a TUESDAY~-. bodies were identified as Chalmers mood which may Mcllwaine, 42, of Washington, and 
~:n:.uy last ~HIF*'Ir FOcus
not 
Robert Silbergliede, 35, of Boston. That brought to 50 the number of 
The full inten­bodies recovered from the aircraft, 
sity of her nerv­leaving 24 yet to be found. Inspector 
ous energy and euphoric moods is under control, as she James P. Shugart of the Washington 
reminisces calmly about the past 16 years of her life ­police force said recovery of the dotted with months of hospital stays, psychiatric bodies remained the top priority, therapy and the memories of two suicide attempts. but NTSB investigators were just as Diagnosed as a paranoid schizophrenic in her 20s, anxious to find the equipment that Jennifer was not discovered to be a manic depressive 
could yield clues to the cause of the until a few years ago. 
Corby's during the fire and the fire chiefs report indicates that all doors were locked. 
Rowley said the employees did turn the furnace's heat down to 55 degrees before leaving, as in· structed. "Because of the cold, the furnace had been working hard for two weeks," Rowley said. 
Corby's is fully insured and the property is assessed at $1 00,000. The fire caused $40,000 in damage to the building and ruined S10,000 worth ofsupplies. 
Rowley's wife, Rose Kessen­Rowley, actually owns the property, but she has been out-of-town and was unavailable for comment. 
Jennifer, like other manics, suffers from a disorder which scientists believe is caused by a chemical im­balance in the brain, according to Dr. )amesJefferson, a psychiatrist and director of the Lithium Information Center at the University of Wisconsin Center for Health Sciences. 
The center, the only one of its kind in the country, was founded in 1975 and is a computerized library of over 8,300 articles and studies on all aspects oflithium use. 
Jennifer, like others, takes lithium, a common form of salt, to control the euphoric highs and tearful lows with which this Jekyll-and-Hyde syndrome jolts its victims. 
Jefferson said about 1.1 5 million Americans suffer from manic depression, but only a third -roughly 300,000 people -have been diagnosed and take lit­hium. 
Manic depression differs greatly from regular depres-t sion and schizophrenia, according to Jefferson. While some people just suffer plain depression and schizophrenics possess an emotionally distorted picture of reality most of their lives, manic depressives slip in and out of three stages -manic, depressed and 
See DEPRESSION, page 4 

==Ihe='lbset:Ver== 
Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­ed as. a~curately and. as .objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a maJonty of the Ed1tonal Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors.. Column s~ace is.a~ailable to all members of the community, and the free expressiOn of varymg opm10ns on campus, tlu:OU&h letters, is encoura&ed. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Cbief. ............................ .)ohn McGrath 
Executiv" New.~ Editor.. .... Kelli Flint Sports Editor ..............................! Skip Desjardin News Editor.............................David Rickabaugh 
Photo Editor···=················ ............john Macor .SMCExecutit>e Editor ........... Mary Agnes Care} Editorials Editor... ...................Anthony Walton 
SMC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico Features Editor .........................Gregory Swiercz 
Department Managers 
Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola Production Manager...................Michael Monk 
Controller.............................................]oe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan 
Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley 
News Briefs 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
The worst cold wave of the century shifted its grip to the Northeast yesterday, stranding thousands of city commuters as trains quit running and cars refused to start in temperatures at record lows. Temperatures were on the rise in the Midwest and the Deep South, hard hit last week, but more extreme cold may be on the way. The National Weather Service forecast below-normal tem­peratures across the eastern two-thirds of the nation over the next 30 days. At least 283 deaths have been attributed to the polar air mass that first pushed into the country onJan. 9 and dealt cities such as Chicago, M t ilwaukee and Akron, Ohio, their coldest temperatures since the weather service started keeping track. -AP 
Despite the Roman Catholic Church's sharp 
criticism of martial law, the Polish government said yesterday cooperation was needed from the church to pull Poland out of its crisis. In other developments, the Polish news agency PAP called for an increase in food a11d other prices to save the economy from total collapse. Officials of both the army and the Communist Party demanded a purge of the "enemies of socialism." Polish primate ArchbishopJozef Glemp issued his third attack on Poland's military rulers Sunday. But yesterday the daily government newspaper Rzeczpospolita spoke of the church's "important social role" in mediating "even the most difficult problems." It appeared the government was taking a conciliatory line toward the church despite repeated denunciations by the church ofmass arrests. -AP 
Marie Osmondis the leading candidate to play Britain's Princess Diana in a TV movie planned by ABC, The London Daily Star reported yesterday. The tabloid said the movie will cover Diana's life up to her marriage to Prince Charles, 33-year-old heir to the throne, at St. Paul's Cathedral last July 29. The Star quoted an unidentified spokeswoman for ABC saying: "the story must be handled tastefully. The actress we choose must capture the in­nocence and charm that has made the princess the darling of the world." -AP 
Last nigllt the Student Senate approved Notre Dame Stu­dent Body President Don Murday's deadlines for the election ofnew class officers, student body president, and vice president and stu­dent senators. A mandatory meeting for all persons interested in running for class offices will be in the student government offices at 7 p.m., Feb. 11. Elections for class officers will be March 2. An or­ganizational meeting for all persons interested in running for SBP­SBVP will be 7 p.m. Thursday. A meeting for all persons interested in running for the Student Senate will be at 8:30p.m. Wednesday. Elec­tions for both will be Feb. 8. Elections will be earlier this year to enable new officers to be .come more familiar with the duties oftheir offices. Outlining his plans for this semester, Murday said he wants the Senate to involve itself in academic and social issues by forming study groups that will present ideas to the Board ofTrustees in May. -The Observer 
Narcotics agents in Union City, Tenn., arrested seven people and confiscated almost 5300,000 in marijuana and cash late Sunday and early yesterday after they caught a drug-laden airplane being unloaded at an airport near here, officials said. The plane's pilot managed to fly away in a hail of gunfire when police began to move in at Everett-Stewart Airport, Obion County Sheriff Danny Cunningham said. Two men were arrested at the airport, one was picked up nearby and two others were arrested at Milan, Tenn., about 50 miles away, Cunningham said. A sixth man and a woman were arrested when Metro Narcotics detectives raided two homes in Shelby County shortly after the airport raid, he said. The plane and its pilot were being sought. -AP 
Trent Lehman, who played Butch on "Nanny and the Professor" television series in the early I970s, apparently hanged 
• 
Tuesday,)anuary 19, 1982-page 2 
A different taste of life 

Thinking about summer work while the greater 
Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community is experiencing 
the record-breaking temperatures of winter might 
seem futile, but the Holy Cross Associates and the Sum­
mer Service Projects Program offer exciting summer 
positions in various locales that are proven to be fulflll­
ing and enlightening experiences. 
Awide variety ofsummer experiences are offered to 
provide various communities with much-nt:eded assis­
tance as well as giving the participant a view oflife not 
strewn with textbooks and final exams. 
What makes one dodge the vast pool of summer 
employment to participate in volunteer work? 
I asked Mary Ann Roemer, chief screener and mem­
ber of the Board of Directors for the Holy Cross As­
sociates Program, why students choose to join. 
"The students try to integrate the beliefs oftheir faith 
with their career goals," she explained. Roemer said the intent ofthe program is for the students to serve others and, at the same time, strengthen their faith in Chris­tianity. 
The domestic Associates program focuses on four principle American cities: Portland, Oregon; Phoenix, Arizona; Hayward, California; and Colorado Springs, 
Colorado. Service positions there are as diverse as the cities' locales. A student can find himself teaching in an inter-city school, counseling skid row drunks at an al­coholic treatment center or aiding in community projects in neighborhoods. 
What differentiates the Holy Cross Associates program from other programs is that there is no "drive" for recruits. If a stu­dent is considering the program, "I probably would not try to sway the student, for it is through a student's willingness to serve that at­tracts them to the program. 
"I point to what the 
program is. It is a sense ofChristian faith acted out in an active way," Roemer stated. 
Roemer also expressed the value of the program in relation to future career goals. As john O'Lear, a former Associate in Portland stated: I am even applying some ofmy engineering as I bead up a major renovation of the building. When all that doesn't keep me busy enough, I climb a mountain, ride my bike to San Fran, or have breakfast with Val. 
The Summer Service Projects Program also offers stu­dents the opportunity to come into direct contact with urban and social problems, according to program coor­dinator Andrea Shappell. 
Students work under the auspices of Notre Dame 
Alumni clubs serving the poor. Each student has the 
opportunity to discuss the problems in the areas they 
reside with the Alumni Clubs. "(The Summer Service 
Projects) is a challenging way to spend the summer. 
Students can learn much about the different cultures, 
something you cannot find in school," Shappell stated. 
Students will receive a SI ,000 scholarship to aid in 
Features Editor 
Inside Tuesday 
the costs ofthe I982-83 academic year. Approximately 20 students will be chosen to serve in the eight week program. 
The scholarships will also come from the James Andrews Scholarship Fund. This year the Fund will sponsor two work sites, up from the partial assistance the Fund sponsored last year. 
Andrews graduated from Notre Dame and was active in justice issues. He went on to co-found the University Press-Syndicate, the suppliers of Doonesbury and other columns. 
Students in the program found themselves serving the educational, recreational and role modeling needs of their communities. Roles as teachers, and camp in­structors, and volunteer service organizations allowed 
cial justice. It it a .lifelong search, and without a "family" ofsupport we'd never make it. I am now a thirdyear law student. My classmates are not very in­terested in social justice. My own attitudes have become more pragmatic and my golden ideals a little tarnished from the wear. I continue to see things that make me angry: my clients inprison who getfiveyears for forging checks while doctors stealing Medicare money get probation; Ronald Reagen using money which once boughtfood stamps to build nuclear war­heads; the Catholic Church still treating women as in­ferior. I intend to continue working to change these 
things, to reverse the injustice in any way I can. I need only look at the faces in thephotograph to know thatI am not alone. 
Applications for the Holy Cross Associates Domestic Program can be picked up from Mary Ann Roemer at the Volunteer Services Office, 1.5 LaFortune. Deadline for the program is Feb. I2. Applications for the Summer Service Projects can be picked up at the Volunteer Services Office or from Andrea Shappell at the Center for Experimental Learning, II I 0 Memorial Library. 
himself on a schoolyard fence near Arleta, Calif, police said yester­day. The body of Lehman, 20, was found, hanging from a chain link fence at the Vena Avenue Elementary School, by a friend, Joseph Allen, police said. The school is across the street from Allen's home, where Lehman was spending the night. Lehman's death was tentatively listed as a suicide, police Detective AI Ferrand said. Allen told investigators that Lehman "had spoken about taking his life" and was despondent. Lehman played Butch Everett, the mischievous son of Professor Howard Everett, played by Richard Long, on the ABC series in I971. -AP 
Cloudy todaywith a slight chance of rain or snow. High in the upper 20s and low 30s. A slight chance ofsnow tonight. Low in the mid and upper teens. Tomorrow cloudy and cold with chance of snow flurries. High in the mid 20s to about 30. Probability of precipitation 20 percent both today and tonight. -AP 
The_Ohs.erYer 
Design Editor ................... Deirdre Murphy Design Assistants ....................... Tim Neely Typesetter ............................ Stephen Brown News Assistant ............... Margaret Fosmoe Copy Editor ..... Kathy Murray and Valerie 
Evans Sports Copy Editor ............. Dave Dziedzic Typist ................................... -.john McCarthy Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor................. Karen McMahon Ad Design................ Fran & the usual gang Pbotograpber ............................ john Macor 
Guest Appearances ........Suzanna LaCroix 
"Without no seams nor Needlework" 

SARCENT & LUNDY ENCINEERS will be recruiting on campus 
JANUARY 29th 
Sign up for your interview now! 
Equal Opportunity Employer MIF 
SARGENT~' LUNDY 
~========~ENGINEERS 
Excellence in Energy Engineering 
students to reach out and live a lifestyle not seen from a dorm room. 
Barbara Frey, a I978 graduate, writes of her ex­perience as a Holy Cross As­sociate: 
There is a framed photograph of my Holy Cross Associate community on the dresser. People ask me, "Is that your family?," and I respond, "Sort of" I keep the picture there so that when making life deci­sions I can look into the faces of my former bousemates and know that I am not alone. Each of us searches for a way to live llllllilliillliiiilliill out our committment to so­
-----------··-------­
The Observer Tuesday, January 19, 1982 -page 3 
On schedule 
Libraryconstruction continues 
"Most of the work now is inside -Leighton currently serves on the
By TIM PE1TERS 
walls, lighting, and such." College's Board of Regents and is
News Staff 
The library will be named in chairman of its development com­
honor of Margaret Hall Cushwa, a mittee. She is active in the South 
Construction of the Cushwa­1930 alumna of Saint Mary's, and Bend Community and serves as Lcighton Ubrary at Saint Mary's con­Mary Lou Morris Leighton, a local chairman of the Friends of the Snite tinues on schedule, according to benefactor. Cushwa is a past presi­Museum ofArt at Notre Dame. SMC Public Relations Director Ann dent ofthe Alumnae Association and The new library, which will ac­Reed. Exterior work is nearly com­a past member of the College's commodate about 250,000 plt:tc on the 57 million library, due Board of Lay Trustees and Board of volumes, is scheduled for comple­to open for student usc next fall. Regents. She was also a delegate to tion this spring. Dedication of the 
"The severe weather has not af­the first White House Conference on building is tenatively set for early fected construction," Reed said. Aging. next fall. 
Suits possible 
Supreme Court sides with Moonies 
WASHINGTON (AP) The Suprcmt· Court indicated yesterday day it will let Unification Church members usc an 1871 law aimed at protecting freed slaves from the Ku Klux Klan to sue people who try to "deprogram" them. 
The' court, without comment, cleared the way for one member of the Rev. Sun Myung Moon's con­troversial church to sue I I people for SS I million under the law. 
In other matters yesterday, the justices took these actions: 
-Left mtact the criminal convic­tion of former Illinois Attorney General William Scott for understat­ing his taxable federal income in 1972. Scott now must begin a one­year-and-one-day prison sentence. 
·Rejected an attempt by the Oglala tribe of Sioux Indians to regain possession of South Dakota's Black Hills. The tribe says it is not bound by a 1980 Supreme Court decision that awarded the Sioux Na­tion of Indians -including the 
Nuclear disarmament debated 
A forum on nuclear disarmament will be presented Wednesday at 7 
p.m. in the Social Concerns Alcove on the ftrst floor of the LaFortune Student Center. 
Bernard Norling, professor of His­tory, and Denis Goulet, William and Dorothy O'Neill Prokssor of Educa­tion for Justice, will lead a panel dis­cussion with the audience. 
The two professors will present opposing views on the production and actual usc of nuclear weapons hcforc taking questions from mem­bers of the audience. 
The forum is sponsored by the Community for ·International Lay Apostolatc ( Cll.A ). 
• Mandatory Meeting • 
• TOHIGHT • 
0  Raise your grade average without long hours  
over texts.  
0  End all-night cramming sessions.  
0  Hreeze through all your studying in as little as  
I /:3 the time.  
0  Have more free time to enjoy yourself.  
0  Read :3 to 10 times faster, with better con­ 
centration, understanding, and recall.  

• for all • 
: Hews Reporters. : 
• 6:30 in the Observer • • Office. • 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students ol Notre Dame and Sa.r,l Marys Col­lege SubscnpiiOII:l may be purchased tor $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wn11ng The Observer P 0 Box Q Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pard at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
Oglala -$105 million for the land 
taken as revenge for.. Custer's last 
stand. 
In the "deprogrammmg" case, Thomas Joseph Ward filed suit in 1979, charging that 33 people ­including his parents and other relatives -conspired to make him renounce his beliefs. 
Ward's suit says he was kidnapped in 1978 while on his way home from a Thanksgiving visit at his sister's home in Virginia Beach, Va., and was held captive for 3S days before escaping. 
Ward says he was subjected to ar­duous "deprogramming" sessions in 

We'll show youhow•••free. 
which he was threatened with physi­cal violence and death. 
His suit, filed in Norfolk, Va., said the defendants conspired to violate his religious freedom and his right to travel, in violation of the 1871 law, often called the Ku Klux Klan Act. 
Two of the defendants, Robert and Eugenia Mandclkorn, chal­lenged Ward's usc of that law. They said the law protects people only against conspiracies to violate the rights ofracial minorities. 
Last Aug. I0, the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that the law can protect members of religious groups, too. 
Would you like to: 
Evelyn Wood'sreadingsystem makes itall possible. 
The construction ofSt. Mary,'s neu• library continues through the winter, and the completion ofthe facility is near at band. (Photo byjohn Macor) 

RADIATION' 
LAB TOUR8 
1 
JANUI\R.'i :J..5,:J.~):J.7 I 
ffi' 3:00 r. M. f'Eltr lN R.AD Lflf) LD!'>5Y 
AN'{oj(l& Il'(Tf.RLSTED SIGIJ W S!'ONSoRED B'{ 
ltl £N61Ntf:!t\N& t:£11N'6 cfflle.t
'Th\J &1f1 PI All D 
(.;("" FLooR fiT2t'IITRlC.K/ I
SJ\1'11' t::N~Ir\litRING 
\.0\JNCU., BY JANUA~ .:<1
..........•.....••.....••......•••••••••••..................•.. 
spend ' 
Jess time 
studying. 
Evelyn Wood works-over 1 million people, including students, executives, senators, and even presidents have proven iL A fl'ee I hour demon­stration will show you how to save hundreds of hours of drudgery this year (as well as how to increase your speed immediately with some simple new reading techniques). 
It only takes an hour, and it's free. Don't miss it. 
EvelynWoociiJD) 
will open your eyes. 
ATTEND ANY ONE OF OUR FREE DEMONSTRATION LESSONS 
4 DAYS ONLY! 
MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
JAN. 18 JAN. 19 JAN. 20 JAN. 21 
2:30P.M. 4:00 P.M. 7:30P.M. 
CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION AUDIO VISUAL THEATRE 
~EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS 

The Observer Tuesday, January 19, 1982-page 4 
... Depression 

A police inspectorpulls a blanket over the body ofLt. Col. Charles Robert Ray, an assistant U.S. militaryattache, afterbe wasshotand killed outside his Paris apartment yesterday morning. See related story page one. ( AP Laserpboto) 




• CIINEIH!ll * 
friday night film series 
A grouping of distinguished films shown in conjunction with the course COTH 320/MLIT 377 (The Contemporary Italian Cinema) and sponsored by the Department of Communication & Theatre. 
All showings at Annenberg Auditorium, the Snlte Museum of Art, Notre Dame Campus at 7:30 P.M. 
Individual Admissions $1 .00 
January 22 
The Qoepel According to Saint M8tthew 
Directed by Pier Paolo Pasolini, 1964 (136 minutes. B& W) A complex cinematic interpretation of the Gospel text by one of Italy's most radical left-wing intellectuals. 
January 29 
The Decameron Directed by Pier Paolo Pasolini, 1972 
(111 minutes. Color) An earthy adaptation of ten of Boccaccio's tales set within an en· tirely new frame story and embellished with a further ten original episodes. The director continually appears and reappears. in the guise of a medieval painter. presenting wry comments on the meaning of life and art. 
February 5 lnv..tlgatlon of a Citizen Above Suaplcion Directed by Elio Petri, 1970 (114 minutes. Color) This elegantly executed thriller is a study of the abuse of power. Its protagonist, currently the chief of the government's political Intelligence unit, commits a murder and deliberately plants evidence that will lead to himself, then takes personal charge of the investigation. 
February 12 
The Conformlat Directed by Bernardo Bertolucci, 1970 
(1 08 minutes. Color) •. The interrelationship of perversion, conformity and the totalitarian spint is explored in a series of dazzling, highly stylized 1mages as the director equates the rise of Fascism with the psychosexual life of his protagomst, for whom conformity becomes an obses· sian after a traumatic homosexual experience of his adolescence. 
February 19 
The Spldar'a Stratagem Directed by Bernardo 
Bertolucci, 1970 (97 minutes, Color) A young man revisits the town of his assassinated father and en­counters mysteries which unfold upon further mystenes in a spider's web that tangles history and fiction, traitor and hero. past and present into one inextricable skein. 
February 26 Amarcord Directed by Federico Fellin!, 1974 (127 minutes, Color) Based on Fellini's recollections as a youth in a small town of prewar Italy. the story· centers around a young man who longs for the freedom of adulthood but cannot quite leave the safety of adolescence 
March 5 The Garden of the Flnzi·Contlnla D~rected by Vittorio De Sica. 1971 (96 minutes, Color) Depicting life in the Jewish commun1ty of Ferrara when the anti· Semitic edicts of the Fascist regime were beginning to take ef· feet, the film evokes a magical. doomed world with 1mages of great lyrical power 
Series Ticket: 13 films for $10.00 
March 12 Death In Venice Directed by Luchino Visconti, 1971 (130 minutes, Color) The theme of fatal obsession is developed against a sensuous photographic recreation of Venice at the turn of the century with the music of Mahler reinforcing the haunting, melancholy mood. 
March 26 
The In~ Directed by Luchino Visconti, 1979 
(115 minutes, Color) The decay of an era and a marriage are both presented within a powerful. sumptuous vision of a social class moving inexorably towards Fascism. 
Apri/2 
Seven BeauU..Directed by Lina Wertmuller, 1976 
(116 mmutes, Color) The director, at the peak of her energies, tells a relentlessly fun­ny, profoundly pessimistic tale of the morality of a survivor, set mainly in a Nazi concentration camp. 
Apri/16 
To Forget Venice D~rected by Franco Brusati, 1980 
(1 08 minutes. Color) · This poignant drama explores the interrelated lives of five people who gather together at a country home during a critical time of their lives. Richly evocative and visually detailed, Brusat1's film faces the complex existential problems of the present age 
Apri/23 La Granda Bourgeolae Directed by Mauro Botognini, 1977 (115 minutes, Color) This lushly photographed film is a depletion of a celebrated turn­of-the-century murder case in Italy. Beneath the surface of this exciting mystery is an Insightful view of some of Italy's most troubling contemporary issues. 
Apri/30 
Tree of the Wooden Cloga Directed by Ermanno 
Olml, 1978 (185 minutes, Color) A painterly epic of peasant lite in Lombardy in the late nineteenth century. The director combines an awareness of important historical events with an Idealized, moving vision of community ties and traditions. The film has been recogn1zed as one of the most ma;estic masterpieces 1n the history of Italian cinema. 

continued from page 1 
normal -which can be triggered by any event at any time, he said. 
The manic stage, characterized by decreased sleep, euphoria, ram­blings of grandiose plans, excessive drinking, spending and an extraordi­nary sense of benevolence and religious enlightenment, can last three to six months, according to Jefferson. 
He said the risk of accidental 
death during this period increases 
because victims lose inhibitions and 
become self-destructive. 
"They may quit their jobs, leave their families, or give away all of their belongings," Jefferson said. "They feel they no longer need them because they're invincible or be­cause God is protecting them." 
Jennifer said her mania was 
marked by avid party planning, 
strong religious feelings and bouts of 
impulsive spending. 
Jefferson said the depression stage, which lasts six to nine months, is marked by feelings of rejection and lack of energy, coupled with an increased risk ofsuicide. 
"If untreated, or assuming they don't kill themselves first, the vic­tims will come out ofeach stage and slip into the next," Jefferson said. 
He said such mood swings may be recognizable to friends and family of the victim but mistaken for other maladies, such as schizophrenia or alcoholism. 
Recent medical evidence shows the disorder may be genetically transmitted, and that persons with family histories of manic depression are more likely to suffer from it than those who do not. 
In Madison, patients are able to get the treatment, support and counseling they need from profes­sionals and other manics through the Lithium Connection, a voluntary self-help group at University Hospi­tal and Clinics. 
The Connection, founded in 1978, has nearly 100 members, and is one ofonly about a half-dozen like it in the country that provides 
continuedfrom page 1 
was a handwritten statement given to Western news reporters in Beirut, 
was awarded the Bronze Star and Lebanon, by an organization called
Army Commendation medal, U.S. the "Lebanese Armed Revolutionary
Army records show. Faction." Western diplomats in
Police said the gunman walked up Beirut said they had not heard of the
to Ray as he was going to hiscarfrom group.
his apartment on the Boulevard Emil Hours after Ray was shot, French
Augier, in the capital's posh 16th dis­authorities provided tight security
trict, and shot him once at close for U.S. Treasury Secretary Donald T.
range. Police Commissioner Marcel Regan, who flew to New York after 
Leclerk said Ray died instantly on attending a meeting of Western
the sidewalk. finance ministers. 
The only claim of responsibility 

STUDENTS 
The Air Force has just announced a new program for engineering students that pays S900 per mo., for up to 12 mos., while you are attending·school. To qualify, you must beaU.S. Citizen, meet all mental, moral and physical requirements of an officer training school candidate. You must be 
majoring in an accredited civil, aeronautical, aerospace, architectural, astronautical, electrical, industrial or nuclear engineering program. For more information · 
Call SSgt. Marty Lazar, collect. South Bend 219·233-4747 Valparaiso 219-464-4151 
OR VISIT SGT. LAZAR AT THE NOTRE DAME PLACEMENT OFFICE ON JAN. 21st. 

• • .Gunman 
counseling and support for manics who use lithium.· 
Jefferson said counseling is an im­portant follow-up to lithium treat­ment -determined through blood tests and mood observations -be­cause users must decide whether the drug and its side effects improve or worsen their quality oflife. 
Some of the less commo·n-arid­more serious effects include hair loss, kidney damage, diarrhea, memory loss, coma and death, which can result from an overdose ofthe drug, jefferson said. 
Jefferson, who has published several papers and a book on manic depression and treatment, said an overwhelming majority of patients in nationwide studies chose to con­tinue using the drug. 

.-----------------~~-----------------­
Sports Brie/§ 
By The Obsen,er and The Associated Press 
Every Saturdaynight, the Student Union will spon­sor a ski trip to Swiss Valley. Advance tickets can be purchasc;d at the ticket office for S2.50, or for $3.00 on the shuttle bus. The bus will depart from the Main Circle at 5 p.m. every Saturday and return to campus at 11 p.m. All are invited to come and join the fun. -The Observer 
The Tae Kwon Do Karate Club of Notre 
Dame will hold its first practice ofthe semester today at 6:15p.m. in the wrestling room of the ACC. Old member are encouraged to at­tend. New members, whether advanced or beginners, are welcome. For more information call Ray ( 288-3108). -The Observer 
The WOmen's golf team of Notre Dame and St. Mary's will meet tomorrow to elect oficers. Anyone interested in participating is asked to attend. The meeting will be held in the 24­hour lounge in Breen-Philips at 7 p.m. -The Observer 
The Fellowship ofChristian Athletes is 
sponsoring an evening with tiket manager and former football co­captain Steve Orsini. The presentation will be held in the Farley Hall chapel tomorrow at 8:30p.m. FCA promotes Christian fellowship among athletes and coaches in hope that this will be shared with the larger community. All are invited. -The Observer 
The ND-SM C Ski Teamtime trials were postponed last Sunday because the ski area was closed. Practice and trials have hecn rescheduled for this Thursday. Members should meet at the Main Circle at 4:30p.m. Drivers aarc needed. The trials will be held at Swiss Valley Ski Area in Michigan. Maps will be available at the Circle. The trials arc mandatory for anyone who wishes to be on the roster this year. -The Observer 
... Track 
continuedfrom page 8 
The beat performance in the Notre Dame mile relay squad was turned in by Steve Dziabis, who ran a 50.2­second anchor quarter and also doubled in the 600. "Steve is run­ning better than any other of the quarter-milers," said Kelly{ who also commended Dziabis' 600 effort: "He ran a tough, gutty race. I told him to go out with the leaders and hold them off as long as he could. He beat them to the start and held them off on three consecutive straightaways and then fell back because of the energy he expended in holding the lead." 
The mile relay time of 3:24.2 on the slow boards means that the school record of3: 16.5 set in 1968 is in jeapardy. "I'd be suprised if we· didn't break the school record this year," said Kelly. 
The two-mile relay team also ran well. Freshman jim Tyler, senior tri­captain Rick Rogers, junior jim Moyar and senior Tim Macauley each took home trophies for their third-place 7:54.7 finish. "The two­mile relay ran well, as usual. They're all just very good runners," said Dziabis. 
Senior john McCloughan got off to a great start in the 50-yard hurdles. In the Jane next to him was former world record holder and Olympic gold medal winner Rod Milburn. Also in McCloughan's heat was Rodney Wilson, who was the NCAA champion two years ago. 
"I got out with the guy (Milburn) and after the first hurdle he wasn't ahead of me," said McCloughan. "Then I fell apart." McCloughan hit the second hurdle but still finished the race strong, one stride behind Wilson. Milburn won the heat. "I was impressed with John's perfor­mance yesterday," said Kelly. "The thing is that he learned that he can run with some ofthe best hurdlers in the country. Yesterday confirmed my belief that he is running better." Caron seemed to sum up the team's attitude about its rather auspicious start,"From this meet everyone gained confidence. We realized that we're talented and we're going to be a team to deal with. We won't be taken for granted anymore. We can't be." 
Classifieds 
I 
NEEDED: THIRD ROOMM ·· I I; FOR REST OF THE SEMESTER <:ASTLE POINT APTS-LUXURIOUS BUT AF­
LOST/FOUND 
LOST a stlver heart locket with my name engraved on lt. II found please call Amalia at3818 
LOST: One patr of black skt gloves. They last warmed my now frozen hands last Friday at the Beach Party at the SMC:: Club House Anyone wtth info please call 850t or 8512. My hands would be very thankful. 
Found Blue and green scarl. Dtscovered at Bendox Woods Jan. t 4 1982. Call John at t 764 to tdenttfy. 
FOR RENT
1 I
'----------------' 
FOR RENT: lndtvtdual or group. Com­fortable house close to campus, bus $500 per semester plus share of uttlittes. Call 288·3942 a"er 5:30pm FORDABLE. $130/mo. 1/3 11lec. IN­CLUDES USE OF RACQUf. T CLUB. CALL MIKE OR LARRY at 277·3J06. 
WANTED:~ 
Looktng for a Jafre dtstributor.. en low on supplies. 272-7152. 
COMPARATIVE GOVT. 342 300KS. CALL MIKE AT 1689 
Need 4 GA's (2 pr) for MARQUETTE. Call Alx1384 
YOUR USED FICTION: THE AMBAS­SADORS, LOST IN THE FUNHOUSE, A 
MONTH  OF  SUNDAYS,  and  THE  
MOVIEGOER.  CALL  Paula at  4648  
anytime.  

Keyboard player needed for rock band now forming. Experience preferred. Call Dan at 8694 or Ralph at 6871. 
Tuesday,January 19, 1982-page 5 
Thla week'sgamea ~cc Grace (22) v. Carroll (18) 
Mon.f/18 
Men'a Basketball Reaulta of 12/8 
Big Tan Holy Cross (5) 76. Alumni (7) 53 Keenan (8) 68. Grace (4) 56 Zahm (2) 56, Dillon (3) 38 
PecTen Sarin ( 14) 75. Flanner (9) 42 
Sac 
Howard (25) 37, Holy Cross (30) 32 Flanner (29) 49. Cavanaugh (26) 45 Grace (28) 37. Dillon (27) 35 
Big Sky Keenan ( 42) 4 7. 0-C ( 42) 45 Pangborn (39) 42. Mor:;isey (34) 40 Flanner (38) 38. 0-C (35) 36 Grace (36) 45. St. Ed's (37) 41 
Results of 1/17 
Big Ten Holy Cross (5) 69. Morrisey (1) 36 Howard (6) 55, Grace (4) 53 Alumni (7) 47, Dillon (3) 36 Keenan (8) 55, Zahm (2) 53 
PacTen Pangborn (13) 74, Flanner (9) 47 Sonn (14) 37, St. Ed's (12 35 Alumni ( 15) 58, Grace ( 11) 49 O-C(10)61, Fisher(16)42 
ACC Stanford ( 19) 54, Flanner (21) 36 
Sec 
Flanner (29) 49, Sorin (31) 30 Dillon (27) 57, Keenan (33) 25 Cavanaugh (26) 37, Howard (25) 33 
Big Sky Flanner (38) 59, 0-C (40) 20 St. Ed's (37) 45, Alumni (41) 33 Grace (36) 40, Keenan (43) 29 Morrisey (34) 36. 0-C (35) 34 
ECAC 0-C (51) 59, Carroll (44) 38 
continuedfrom page 8 
cisco, or will he repeat his dismal showing in the Davidson game? 
• And finally, how long can the Irish last with only seven healthy scholar­ship players? The thin bench should get a stern test tonight. 
Meanwhile, Villanova, barring a late-season collapse, most assuredly is tourney-bound. The Wildcats lead the Big East with a 6-0 record, and await what should be two classic confrontations with Pat Ewing and Georgetown in the next month. 
This may be Villanova's best team since the 1 971 NCAA finalists, but the squad has made it anything but 
Big Sky Alumnt (41) v. Pangborn (39) Keenan (42) v. Flanner (38) Morrissey (34) v. St. Ed's (37) 0-C (35) v. Grace (36) 
ACC 0-C (17) v. Flanner (21) Grace (22) v. Stanford (20) Dillon (23) v. Stanford (19) Cavanaugh (24) v. Carroll (18) 
ECAC Fisher (43) v. Carroll (44) Grace (48) v. Flanner (46) Dillon (49) v. Stanford (45) Morrissey (50) v. Carroll (44) 
Wed.1/20 ECAC 0-C (51) v. Zahm (47) 
Sac 
Holy Cross (30) v. Grace (28) Sonn (31) v. Dillon (27) 0-C (32) v. Cavanaugh (26) Keenan (33) v. Howard (25) 
Big Sky Pangborn (39) v. St. Ed's (37) 0-C (40) v. Grace (36) Alumnt (41) v. 0-C (35) 
Keenan (42) v. Mornssey (34) 
Big Ten Mornssey (1) v. Grace (4) Holy Cross (5) v. Dtllon (5) Howard (6) v. Zahm (2) 
Thurs. 1/21 Big Ten Alumnt (7) v. Keenan (8) 
PecTen Flanner (9) v. St. Ed's (12) Pangborn (t3) v. Grace (11) Sonn (14) v. 0-C (10) Alumni ( 15) v. Ftsher ( 16) 
Sec 
Howard (25) v. Grace (28) Cavanaugh (26) v. Dillon (27) 
• • .Hoops 
easy on its coach. Massimino, a born worrier, has had to suffer through narrow defeats to St. John's (in the ECAC Holiday Tournament) and Philadelphia Big Five rival Temple. 
Even Villanova's victories have been by a razor's edge -the 'Cats have won their last four Big East games by margins of two, one, two and one point, respectively. 
But the 12th-ranked Wildcats are prohibitive favorites tonight against the Irish, who are in the middle of a seven-game homestand that lasts un­til February 2. 
"These guys will be gunning for us, there's no doubt about that," Phelps says. "We've done a job on 
Dtllon (23) v. Cavanaugh (24) 
ECAC 0-C (51) v. Stanford (45) Fisher (43) v. Flanner (46) Zahm (47) v. Stanford (45) 
Woman's Basketball 
Results ol1/17 Farley 1129, O·C 25 Pasq. West 20, Badin 19 Walsh 15, Breen-Phillips 13 Lyons 119, Lewts 118 Lewts 1139, Lyons 1111 Pasq. East 23, Farley 14 
Thla waak'agamea 
Sun.1/24 Walsh v. Pasq. East Breen-Phtllips v. Pasq. West Badtn v. 0-C Farley I v. Lyons II Farley II v. Lyons I Lewis I v. Lewts II 

NBA  
E•atern Conference  
Atlantic Dlvlalon  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Boston  28  9  .757  
Pholadelphta  26  12  .684  2.5  
Washtngton  18  19  486  10  
New York  18  20  .474  10.5  
New Jersey  16  22  .42t  12.5  
Central Dlvlalon  
Milwaukee  26  12  .684  
Atlanta  17  18  .486  7.5  
lnd1ana  18  20  .474  8  
Detrott  16  23  .410  10.5  
Chtcago  15  23  .395  11  
Cleveland  7  30  .189  18.5  
Waatern Conference  
Mldweat Dlvlalon  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
San Antonto  24  12  .667  
Denver  20  19  .5t3  5.5  
Houston  17  21  .447  8  
KansasCtty  14  24  368  11  
Utah  12  24  333  12  
Dallas  9  28  .243  15.5  
Pacific Dlvlalon  
Los Angeles  28  10  .737  
Seattle  25  11  .694  2  
Phoenix  22  14  .611  5  
Portland  21  15  583  6  
Golden State  21  16  .568  6.5  
San Otego  11  27  .289  17  
Yeatarday'a Ruults  
No games scheduled.  

them the last few years. Rollie is a hell ofa coach, and he's done anoth­er great job with this team. They deserve to be among the top fifteen teams in the country. 
"But we've done a lot of things well in the last two games, and it's just a matter of time before we get things together and back on the right track." 
Whether Phelps has anything up his sleeve for Villanova remains to_ be seen. But one thing's for certain -we should know by tonight whether Notre Dame indeed has im­proved, as Digger claims, or whether the Irish truly are a 3-9 team. 
The ObMrver will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30p.m. However, clas­sifieds to be run in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All clas­sifieds must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail. 
·~============================~ 
Drummer with experience needed tor rock band now formtng. MUST BE SERIOUS ABOUT ITI Call Dan at 8684 or Ralph at 6871. 
Need 2 GA's for North Carolina State. Call 8738. 
L-1_FO_R_SA_L_E_] 
FOR SALE Two studded snow tires. Will fit most compact cars. $25.00 each. For more info call Andy al x8448 
I I
pERSONAlS 
L,_________..J 
Hey Rtchard; have you heard? We have I 2 of the 4 
SHIRLEY, YOU WOULD BE PERFECT IN BERMUDA AT HIGH NOONII! 
Hello Maggoe! Big Brother is keeptng his eye on you 
It's such a clever Innocence, W1th which 
you do your sorcery, As If some how the 
years stood by, And let that young gorl go 
by free. I thought I was a child. Untol you 
turned and smiled, I thought I knew where 
I was gotng, Until I heard your laughter 
flowtng, And can upon the wtsdom tn your 
eyes. I've spent my whole life runntng 
'round. And chastng songs from town to 
town. Thtnktng I'd be free So long as I 
never let love slow me down. Until you 
turned and smtled, By now I should have 
long stnce gone. By now I should kave 
long stnce gone, But here I stand sttll 
looktng on, As if I didn't know Whtch way to 
run. 
It's such a clever lnnocence. With which you show myself to me, As tf you know how it feels To never be who you wanted to be. I thought I was a chtld, Unttl you turned and smiled, I thought that I was free, But I'm JUSt one more pnsoner in time, Alone within the boundanes of my mind ....... It's true still a"er a year. 
Dtane, don·t want to come home. havtng too much fun. Pooh 
Normte, Ttck lock, Ttck Tock. 
HAPPY BELATED B-DAY JO-JO WAHOO WAHOO Madge (Ht Katte) 
WATER SPRINKLERS. How were we supposed to know your toothbrushes meant so much to you?? 
THE PAWN SHOP 
P.S. Y'all shouldn t make tt so easyll 
ATTN POLICE FANSI Please respond to my MESSAGE IN A BOTTLE and ftnd me a nde to the Cleveland concert on January 29--will share usual. If I don't get dnven to Cleveland. I'll be DRIVEN TO TEARS! Call4330 SMC todayt 
HELPHELPHELPHELPHELP! I need a ttcket (or more) for the Pollee concert tn Chtcagol Wtll be wtlllng to dnve anyone to Chtcago for the concert if they can get me a ttcket(s)l Willing to spend some of my hard-earned cash (Stnce Corby's burned out--what else tS there to do anyway?) for a ttcketl Call Dtane at 79331oday! 
LaGROTT A RETURNS! Eoght days remain. 
HELP!N DESPERATELY NEED PER­FECTLY EXPOSED AND DEVELOPED SHIRLEY 
Doane. I'll be back soon. Gone looktng for Pooh. E-or 
Adverttstng sales people needed for Scholastic Magaztne If you are tn­lerested and would hke to earn some ex· tra money call Brtan at 1088. 
6 Phtlly fans were promtsed Villanova hoop ttckets. I don't have any Help save my honor-sell your ttx. John 6775 
WHAT N.D. GUYS HAVE, FARLEY CAN'T AFFORD 
ALL THOSE STUDENTS INTERESTED IN TUTORING JUVENILES AND MEETING REALLY INTERESTING PEOPLE COME TO THE GENERAL MEETING WEDNESDAY, JAN 20 AT LITTLE THEATRE AT7 PM. BE THERE. 
ME FIRST! I need 5 (or 2 and 3) Mar­quette tix. Keep my famtly life healthy. Call Pete, 3478. 
While the rest of us work, Rtchard Gnmaldt eats caviar tn the Red Square. However, when he finally returns he will be forced to eat primordial soup. Keep those cards and letters comtng tn. 
j 
The Observer-Sports Tuesday, January 19,1982-page 6 
Irish switn teams fall to Cleveland St. 
For a time Sunday, it seemed that the Notre Dame swim team would pull off a sizeable upset. Going into the final relay event, the Irish looked like winners against the powerful team. 
"Cleveland State has the third­fastest pool in the world," said Mike Shepardson. "They are a strong team that has already qualified for the na­tionals in several events." 
The Irish swam well as a team, but fell just short of the upset, as Cleveland State pulled away to a 12­second win in the 400-yard Freestyle relay, and a 63-50 overall win. 
Though the visitors won eight of the thirteen events, Notre Dame hung tough, piling up points for second and third-place finishes. Sophomore AI Harding paced the Irish, winning the 500-yard Freestyle, placing second in the 200­yard Freestyle, and anchoring the 400-yard medley relay. 
That relay was the first event of the match, and was an indication of things to come. Glenn Battle, John Willamowski, Shepardson and Har­ding edged out Cleveland State by al­most three full seconds. 
Cleveland State came back to win the next three straight events, but the tone was set for the Irish, who never lost confidence. That con­fidence got a big boost when Don Casey and Dan Flynn finished first and second, respectively. That sweep allowed Notre Dame to climb back into contention, where they stayed until the finish. 
The women, meanwhile, did not fare as well. 
Cleveland State swam to wins in 11 of the 13 swimmimg events, and overwhelmed the Irish, 88-50. Notre Dame's two-time. All­American, jeanine Blatt, continued her winning ways, taking first in the 500-yard Freestyle. Blatt was out­touched in the 200-yard Freestyle, however, losing by just .6 seconds. 
The other winner for the Irish was Teri Schindler, who easily outdis­tanced her nearest competitior to win the I00-yard Breaststroke event. 
Both the men and the women will ·return to action this Saturday at Il­linois State. 

ID4t N.ew lntk Wim.es 
Spring Delivery 
Mon.-Fri. Mon.-Sat. Mon.-Sun. Sun. only  $ 24.15 $ 28.35 $ 52.35 $ 24.00  
Send check to:  

Hans Hoerdemann 402 Keenan Hall ph.3340 
Include name and address 
Orders received after Friday, January 22 will be prorated. 

This contingent of over 25 Notre Dame and St. Mary's students spent a week in Winter Park, 
Back in the. swing ofthings 
With the resumption of the second semester, Non­Varsity Athletic events also get back into full swing. Many games have already been played. Results, schedules and standings will regularly appear in Sportsboard with highlights in this section. 
In addition to the standard leagues and clubs oftered 
through non-varsity, the NVA office will be sponsoring 
tournaments and alternate events to round out your 
academic schedule. These are the activities and their 
respective deadlines for the month ofjanuary: 
Cross Country Ski Rentals -Each weekend for the 
remainder of the winter the NVA office will issue cross 
country skis and boots. For a fee of $12 students may 
check out the gear from 4 to 5 p.m. on Friday afternoon 
and return it between 4 and 5 p.m. Sunday afternoon. 
The equipment will be issued from the room opposite 
the golf shop in the Rockne Memorial. 
Aerobic exercise classes will begin this week. For more information call the NVA office at 239-6100 or drop by C-2 ACC. 
Entries for the men's and women's volleyball tourney should be submitted by tomorrow,jan. 20. Each team in the elimination tourney must have ·at least seven players, all from the same hall. Rosters should be handed in at the NVA office (C-2 ACC). 
Racquetball Doubles -The matches for this men's 

Inside lnterhall 
and women's tournement will be the best of three games. Entries can either be called in (239-6100) or handed in (C-2 ACC) by this Friday, jan. 22. 
Handball Doubles -This elimination tourney will be open competition for all undergrads with best of three games to decide each match. Entries can either be called in or handed in to the NVA office by Friday, jan. 22. 
Racquetball Grad-Fac -The deadline for entries for the elimination tourney is Friday, jan. 22 and will be open to all graduate students, faculty and staff. The NVA office is C-2 in the ACC and the number is 239-6100. 
The NVA is sponsoring an indoor track meet which 
will feature such events as 60-yard low hurdles, mile 
run, four-lap relay, high jump and broad jump. The com­
petition is open to both men and women and the 
deadline for entries will be Wed., Jan. 27. Entries should 
be submitted to the NVA office. 
In fact, we'll even pay you $530 a monthwhile you attend. That's in addition to 
paying for your full tuition. It's all part of the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. How does it work? If you're selected for a Physician Scholarship-from the Army, Navy, or Air Force-you're commissioned as an officer in the Reserve. 
. While you:r~ in school, you'll_have a chance to serve 45 days a year on act1ve duty, gammg valuable med1cal experience. After graduation, you will serv~ three or more years, the length depending on the requirements of the Serv1ce selected and years of scholarship assistance received. 
As an Armed Forces physician you'll receive officer's pay and benefits. You'll also see a diversity of patients and have opportunities to use sophisticated medical technology. 
But most important, while you're in medical school we'll help pay the bills. For more information, send in the coupon. There's no obligation whatsoever. 
~es~int~d ~eiv~ore~ma~bo~Ar~or~al~ 
Professions Scholarship. I understand there is no obligation. (OM) th 
I 
I 
For more information mail this coupon to: 
I 
Armed Forces Scholarships, P.O. Box C 1776, Huntington Station, NY 11746
I Checkuptothree: ArmyD Navyo AlrforceD I 
Nam.&--------------------------------------------SeL--M___F (please print) 
I Addres"-------------------------------------------Apt_____ I 
C'IY--------------Siate..__________.z;p....____,phone(
I Enrolled ar---------------------------SchoOL------------------1 
(Month. Year)
Togra-dualein' ., ---Degre---~ 
-1141 

~---------------­
The ObserYer=-~-=-~----=­
T0 da~===============::;T=u=e=sd=a=y,=J=an=u=ary==1=9=,=19=8=2==p=ag=e~7 

Molarity 
'it)(} c;u'(~ ARE" 1..-CXJI'liW::j ~OR,\ HotJ!£ RfAL LATE: IHI!> I? TilE" ~$T OF fv1Y 
V~Sf ff~L £~TATE EMPIRE 

Doonesbury 
Simon 
M~T!N6? YOIJ CAL/.. rr5 II MEZT!MJ, 
7HISA ME£T/N6:' A Ill!i/.. YOIJi 
CtJCKTJ/1/.. PAIVY ANI? fl.lc CV&N PI/T 
flJfffl FOil. 200 8C-/.E:6A/.. PAPS 
~THE Si.lfJtf<lJal/l' BY 7H& 1XXJR I 
I 

[11\C.IL '/. 
Tl\EN LET'S "" 
1P IT ! D-1<-HAll(, D\'1 ! 
\ I 
The Daily Crossword 
Michael Molinelli 
Campus 
•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Darwin Spencer and the 19th Century Origins of Ecology", Dr. Peter Rich, Biological Sciences Group, University of Connec· ticut, 278 Galvin Life Science Auditorium, Sponsored by Biology Department 

•7, 
9, II p.m. -Film, "The Maltese Falcon", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Physics Club, $1 admission 

•s 
p.m. -Basketball, Notre Dame Men vs. Vii· lanova,ACC 

•8: 
15 p.m -University Artist Series, Mark Ber· nat, 'Double Bass, Annenbcrg Auditorium, $2 


admission 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. !O:OOp.m. 
!0:30p.m. ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
!2:00a.m. 
!2:30a.m. 
Television 
Tonight 
16 22 28 34 46 16 22 28 34 46 16 
22 28 34 46 28 46 22 28 34 46 28 16 28 46 34 16 22 28 34 46 16 22 28 34 28 46 16 46 
MASH CBS News Joker's Wild MacNeil/lehrer Report It's Your Business All in the Family Family Feud Elkan: The Selling ofa City Straight Talk God's News Behind the News College Ba.~ketball: Vlllanova at Notre Dame Simon and Simon 
Happy Days Ute on Earth lester Sumerall Teaching laverne and Shirley The lahayes On Family life CBS Movie: "Marion Rose White" 
Three's Company American Playhouse Today with Lester Sumerall Too Close For Comfort Flamingo Road Han To Hart Dwight Thompson Were You There NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 The Dick Cavett Show Praist· the lord Tonight Show Alice/McCloud ABC News Nightlinc Captioned ABC News Fantasy Island lester Sumrall Teaching Tomorrow Coast to Coast Ugh! and lively 
Rockne Hours 
Houra until aprlng br..k 
Building houra Salurdays 8 a.m. 1o m1dn1ght Sundays 10 a m. 1o 11 p m Weekdays 7:30a.m: 10 m1dn1ght 
Swimming pool houra Weekends 1 p.m. 1o 6 p.m. 7 p.m. 1o m1dn1gh1 
Weekdays 1:30 a.m. 10 8 a.m 12:05 p.m.1o 1:15 p.m. 3 p.m. 10 3:45p.m. 8:15p.m.1omldmght 
Weight room houra Weekends 10 a.m. to 5 p m. Weekdays 3 p.m. to 11 p.m 
The use of the Rockne Memonat1s hm11ed 10 No1re Dame students. faculty and admm1strai1Ve managenat staff upon presenta11on of a current LD card 
For the above. members of the •mmed1ate family may use the Rockne fac1h11es from 2 p.m. 1o 4 p.m Sundays 
-

BUT WHAT DOES THE STUDENT UNION RECORD STORE HAVE FOR ME? 
CHEAPER PRICES PRICES··· Save 24-32% off list prices! MOST CURRENT SINGLES-S6.50 (compare at S8.99 list). Cut-outs ... $2.98 to $5.98 
CONVENIENCE ... The NDSU Record Store is located on the Main floor of LaFortune and is open 1 0-4 PLUS-ordered albums take 1 week only! 
GREAT SELECTION ... Springsteen, Fogelberg, Moody Blues, Stevie Nicks, Cristopher Cross, Pat Benatar, Journey, and many more. 
ALSO ... recorded and blank tapes available. 
SO...for CHEAPER PRICES, MORE CONVENIENCE, and a GREAT SELECTION stop by the S.U. Record Store today'!! 

Tuesday,January 19, 1982-page 8
SRQrts
I 
I Irish trackmen excel 
Aragon defeats stellar field 
ByEARLRIX 
Sports Writer 
It was a curious mixture ofthe old and the new for the Irish at the Goodwill Games in the Rosemont Horizon on Sunday. 
Chuck Aragon, Notre Dame's three-time All-American and first­ever sub-four minute miler, still wore his Notre Dame uniform as he bested star-studded field in the mile run. Aragon is currently a first-year medical student at the University of New Mexico. 
Aragon's winning attitude seemed to rub off on some of his former teamates who turned in good perfor­mances of their own against some of the best track atheletes in the country at this prestigious meet. 
"Chuck was strong and confident and he wasn't about to give up. I think that's now the attitude of the 
team. Chuck represents the epitome
-ofwhat we're trying for. After a lot of work, good things will happen:'said sophomore Ralph Caron who ran a fine 9:12 in the two mile. 
Indeed Aragon didn't give up. Sit­ting in second place for the first half of the race, Aragon took the lead with a little more than five laps to go on the 11 lap-per-mile banked hardwood surface. To the delight of the crowd he held off a charge by Steve Lacy over the last two laps. Chuck finished the race in 4:04.2 over the 160-yard board track, which is about the slowest surface races are held on. 
Olympian Steve Lacy, whose per­
sonal best in the mile is 3:52, finshed 
a full second behind Aragon. Jim 
Spivey, who holds a personal best of 
3: 54 finished third with a time of 
4:06.7. Ross Donahue, a 3:56 miler, finished fpurth. Sidney Maree, who holds the American record at 3:48, finshed fifth and was never a factor in the race. Craig Masback, a 3:52 miler, rounded out the field. 
"I've seen Chuck race quite a few times," said Irish head Coach joe Piane. "and this is the most intel­ligent race I've ever seen him run. It was probably the most exciting race of the day and the crowd reaction was superb." 
The meet also marked senior Bill Ribera's return to competition after an almost two-year layoff caused by a ripped achilles tendon. He under­went surgery last spring. Despite the forced layoff and no experience whatever on the "boards," Ribera held his own with a 51.2-second clocking in his quarter-mile segment ofthe mile relay. 
"Billy is as good a competitor as we have on our team," said sprint Coach Ed Kelly."Its really good to see him do well." 
Freshman Mitch VanEyken ran a fine 51.1 quarter in his first col­legiate competition as he led off the mile relay. "He pleasantly suprised me," said Kelly. "He ran a very com­petitive opening leg." 
Senior tri-captain jacques Eady 
ran a 51.1 second leg in the relay. 
See TRACK, page 5 
Seeking revenge 
Pinone,Villanova invade ACC 
By CHRIS NEEDLES 
Sports Writer 
In this "season ofrevenge" against Notre Dame, Villanova may have the best reason of anybody to gain vengeance. 
Sure, Virginia and Kentucky, among others, have had scores to settle with the now-floundering Irish this year. But consider the Wildcats' situation. 
Rollie Massimino's teams have dropped seven of their last eight games against Notre Dame, includ­ing a 94-65 pasting at the Palestra last season. Worse yet, Villanova, in its last two visits to the ACC, has lost by identical scores of 70-69. In their 
last visit in I980, the 'Cats t clawed back from an 18-point deficit to take the lead in the final minute, only to have Tracy jackson swish a 35-foot prayer at the buzzer to hand them still another defeat. 
The emotional Massimino cried openly after that one. But shed no tears for Villanova this season. )be 'Cats enter tonight's game at the 
-ACC (8:05 tipoff) with a 12-2 record, ranked 12th in the nation and they feature one of the better balanced teams around. There's the dominating center, All-America candidate john Pinone, who leads Villanova in scoring, averaging just over 20 points per game. The 6-8, 228-pound junior from Wethersfield, Conn., generally is regarded as one of the best big men in the East, if not the entire country. "John has become one ofthe most outstanding players in America," says Massimino. "His confidence as a passer and ball handler gives us the ability to use him in all situations." There's the finesse forward, fresh­
...,.. man sensation Ed Pinckney. The 6-9, 195-pounder from the Bronx, a con­sensus high school All-American, has burst onto the collegiate scene and currently ranks second in the nation in field goal percentage, hitting near­ly 75 percent ofhis shots. "Ed's not only an outstanding player," Massimino says, "but he has also fit into our philosophy im­mediately. He's an excellent talent at both ends ofthe floor." There's the power forward, 6-7 senior Aaron Howard, a three-year letterman from Linden, N.J. Al­though he is not a prolific scorer (averaging eight points a game 
lifetime), Howard can hit the clutch shot when called upon, as witnessed by his heroics against Syracuse ear­lier this year. 
In the January 9 game at the Palestra, Howard hit a baseline jum­per at the buzzer to send the game into overtime, where the 'Cats pulled out an 84-83 Big East victory. 
There's the playmaking guard, Stewart Granger, one of the best in the country at his position. Granger, who was born in Canada and grew up in Brooklyn, played basketball on the international level .this past sum­mer -for the Canadian World Uni­versity team. 
Ironically, Granger was the hero in the Canadian upset of the U.S. team, which included Villanova teammate Pinone. The 6-3 Granger, a junior, . scored 23 points in engineering the upset of the eventual-gold-medal-winning Americans. 
There's the shooting guard. Mas­simino has a couple ofsharpshooters to choose from. 6-4 sophomore "Happy" Dobbs fills the starting role, with relief help from freshman Gary McLain. 
Finally, there's the bench, where Massimino can go three-or four­deep with confidence. In addition to McLain, Rollie can choose from junior Mike Mulquin, senior john Sices, and Dwayne McClain, still an­other talented freshman. 
So, what does Digger Phelps have in store for Villanova? 
"We're going to do just what we've done all season ... go out and give it our best shot," says Phelps. "Villanova has a top-quality team, just look at the polls. We've got our work cut out for us, there's no ques­tion ofthat. 
"Pinone is one ofthe top big men in the East, along with Sampson and Ewing, and Granger is a tough player as well. We've got to play with inten­sity underneath, and try to neutralize those two guys. We can 
do that. ._ ______ 
"John Paxson has shown through­out his career that he can play defense against the best guards in the country, and he'll have to prove that again with Granger. We'e !lad some success keeping people like Wallace Bryant from getting in­volved in the offense, and we think we can do the same with Pinone, but it'll be tough." 
The Irish ( 3-9) have pieced to­gether two decent efforts in a row, a.nd at least, by virtue of Saturday's 59-45 victory over Davidson, have shown that they are capable of win­ning a ballgame. 
But there still are questions to be answered: •can Ron Rowan repeat his fine performance from Saturday against Villanova tonight and for the rest ofthe season? 
•Will 
john Paxson break out of his shooting slump? 

•Will 
Tim Andree rise to the occa­sion tonight against Pinone, as he did against Wallace Bryant in San Fran-


See HOOPS, page 5 
Knight responds to 'charges 
COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) -Bobby 
Knight, Indiana's basketball coach, 
sent an assistant to Columbus yester­
day with videotape to support his 
claim that Ohio State freshman Troy 
Taylor committed a flagrant foul 
against the Hoosiers' Jim Thomas. 
Kohn Smith, an Indiana coaching 
assistant, showed the tape from In­
dianapolis station WTTV to 
representatives of the Columbus 
Dispatch and Columbus station 
WCMH-TV. 
Knight was upset over a flagrant foul called on Taylor when the Ohio State guard tried to block a layup by Thomas with 11 seconds remaining in the Hoosiers' 66-61 Big Ten vic­tory Saturday over the Buckeyes. 
At first, Knight declined to com­ment. But he reversed his decision when Taylor said the Indiana coach "started screaming at me and called me everything in the book." 
Bob Hunter of The Dispatch wrote in Monday's editions that the videotape showed Taylor's foul to be flagrant. But he said it did not sup­port or refute Knight's statements that he didn't say anything to Taylor after the incident. 
"I didn't say anything for several seconds," Knight said via telephone Monday. "Then the kid (Taylor) came up to me. He was standing be­hind a player or two and he said, 'I'm sorry, I'm sorry.' 
"I then said something like, 
'There's no excuse for somehing like 
that, get him the hell out of here,' and then went to the officials. 
"That's the only comment I made and I didn't even say it directly to the kid. I asked my players about it, and they said they didn't hear me say anything to any effect other than what I've just said. They were adamant about that." 
Knight, however, says his incident with Taylor was not the reason for sending the videotape to Columbus. 
"What's central to this thing is the foul, and I've sent the tape ofthat to the conference office. It's a con­ference matter," the Indiana coach said. 
Hunter wrote that the videotape clearly showed Taylor shoving Thomas with his left hand, grabbing Thomas' wrist with his right hand and kicking the Indiana guard's leg out from under him. 
first contact is a push on the back. And how about the leg whip? How can you believe what he said about me? To start with, he gave a couple of erroneous descriptions of what happened." 
While Knight denied he swore at Taylor, he did not deny he directed an ~;xpletive toward Ohio State Coach Eldon Miller or that he slammed Ohio State's coaching staff on his Sunday television show. 
"I said I didn't see any concern at all from the Ohio State staff -and I didn't say team, I said staff -for Thomas," Knight said. "But I said I've come to expect that from that opera­tion." 
Miller has refused to comment on the incident, saying it's not a matter for publication. 
Knight said he could not imagine ,...---------------. 
what was going through the Ohio State player's mind. 
"First of all, the game was over; secondly, he has no chance to stop the shot and then we have the kind of foul that it was. The basket was already made so how necessary was it for him (Taylor) to kick his legs out from under him (Thomas)?" Knight asked. 
Knight said he read comments 
made  by  Taylor  in  Sunday's  
newspapers.  
"Let's analyze the  statement  he  

made on the foul," said the Indiana coach. "He said he hit his wrist, but he fell on his own. Is that true? The 
INSIDE: 
Sportsboard, p.5 Inter hall, p.6 
Swim teams, p. 6 

