------~-----~-~--~------~ ----~----~~ 
.. • • .Communism -page 7 
VOL XVI, NO. HO FRIDAY, JANUARY .2.2, 19H.2 
Fr. A yo lectures on the education ofthe mind 
By MIKE LEPRE Fr. Ayo strongly noted that our 
News Staff present "places of education should 
be God's instrumellls," and that stu­
The contribution that knowledge dents are "well-served when tachers 
makes to the ability of an individual give meaning to virtue." 
to love his fellow man is the Singling out Jesus as a teacher backbone ofeducation, according to through his use of parables, Fr. A yo Fr. Nicholas A yo. commented that in reality all of man 
In his lecture "Martha and Mary, is essentially taught through God's The Sisterhood of Man," Fr. A yo em­intervention in our minds. phasized that although "one can Fr. A yo also noted that the educa­dt:fend knowledge for its own sake," tion ofa person extends beyond the intdlgt·nce is important in the at­classroom situation. He spoke of 
LecturersFr. Nicholas Ayo (left)
tempt toward being a moral person. education through personal ex­
and Dr. Tom Swartz (above)
Fr. Ayo noted that as Chritians we perience, alluding to the fact that a 
found that gestures came in 
arc called to "love God with our Christian atmosphere can creatc 
bandy during their talks. Fr. Ayo
heart, soul, and mind." positvc cxpcrit:nccs. 
spoke of the ability of an in­
A yo feels that the education of a Prior to a concluding reading 
dividual to love hisfellow man as
person's mind Is part ofone's "whole from a provcrb dealing with wis­
the backbone of education. See
self' proves the fact that to Jove God dom, Fr. Ayo reflccted upon Notre 
Mike Lepre's story at left. Dr.
with our minds is a big part of our Dame's mural ofjesus' resurrection, 
Swartz spoke optimistical~y
faith. A yo sees that educaton ofmind Grotto lO Our Lady, statuc of Mary 
about thefuture ofurban renewal
is often overlooked as an avenue to atop the Dome, and Sacrcd Heart 
although be still recognizes
gn·atcr faith, and he concedes that Church as symbols of how truth and 
problems. See Tim Petters' story
"you can bring the horse to the Jovc are sisters, as were the biblical 
on page 3. (Photos by Cheryl Er­
watt·r of truth, yct you can not make characters of Martha and Mary. 
telt)
it drink." Knowledge and virtue are closely rclatt·d, noted Ayo, stressing that as 
Like pulling teeth
long as students never forgct "That <iod is," thcre will always be rcason for hope. In tht• second part of his lecture, A yo, who carned his masters 


Woman rebel~ against dental establishment 
degree in English at the University of 
Notre Dame, pointed to the educa­ByJD..L LAWRENCE "What I'm doing here is pure license, she taped a red "X" through techniques that avoid drilling and tional prat·tices of medieval monks AssociatedPress Writer hygiene. There's no dentistry in­the "R" that stands for "Registered" tooth pulling. It means cheaper and as the beginning of the interaction 

volved," says Ms. Edwards, 36, sit­on the sign outside her door and more intensive treatment, she said. betwt·cn the worlds of education Apurple, plant-filled house in nor­ting amid a clutter of antiques and 
conducted business as usual. "I'm a public health educator,"and religion. 

theastern Pennsylvania has become Oriental rugs in what serves as her "When they pulled my license, it said Ms. Edwards, who received an Ayo feels that a university in 
headquarters for a one-woman waiting room. reallv increased busines" " says Ed-associate degree in dental hygienegcncral should guide all ofits educa­
hattie against the state and national Although her license was revoked from Temple University 16 yearstional activity toward "our one end, 
dental establishments. last year by the state Dental Council 
ago. "What l know can helpwhich is God." Pointing to various 
The rebel is Susan Edwards, a den­and Examining Board, Ms. Edwards anybody."
writers and theologians as examples, 

tal hygienist who believes she continues to clean teeth and per­But Dr. Arthur McFeaters, Jr.,Fr. A yo said that common sense tells 
should be allowed to practice in­form other tasks in a mall office in president ofthe Pennsylvania Dental us that "we think with our entire 
dependently instead of having to her home. 
Association, insists on the need forsoul -not just with our minds." 

work under a dentist's supervision. When the board took away her supervision.====================--··-:=.::·.= "These girls are trained to work
wards, whose clicnts include a 
with us. Independent practice,dozen doctors but no dentists. 

where they're off making their ownTax increasepossible 
For Ms. Edwards, freedom from decisions, could be detrimental or
dental supervision mcans a chance disastrous to those seeking their
to carn more than SSS a day (her highest salary under a dentist) and


Reagan postpones budget 
See FOCUS, page 4 
to use time-consuming preventive 
W ASIIINGTON ( AP) ­ President  seek higher taxes would indicate a  health, education, and other social  
Reagan postponed final decisions on his 19tH budget plan after having "st·cond thoughts" about highcr  lack of confidence in his economic program. In addition, House Republican  areas which the administration wants to shift to state control. In addition, the sources said,  Alumni Board offers  
excise taxes to narrow a burgeoning detidt, administration sources said yesterday.  leadcrs warned that raising excisc taxcs on consumer goods as alcohol and gasoline would bt· a mistake for  Reagan plans to propose transferring the Aid I'J Families with Dependent Children ( AFDC) welfare program  student'job placement  
Sevt•ral officials, asking not to be  the GOP.  and the food stamp program to thc  
na1m·d. said the president tentative­ In a rl'Cl'nt Jetter to Budget Direc·  states in exchange for a total fcderal  By KELLI FLINT  program,  currently  in  its  second  
ly had agreed Wednesday  to  seck  tor David A. Stockman. House GOP  takcover of the Medicaid program,  Executive News Editor  year. "We cxpcct it  to incrt·ase in  
hiJ.(her excise  taxes  on  cigarettes,  Whip Trent Lott of Mississippi, and  which provides health  care  to thc  strength, and encourage all students  
whiskey, wine and "luxury" items as  Rep. jack Kemp of New York (one of  poor and aged.  Alumni Board representatives of­ to apply for the program," he said.  
part of a plan to raist.· some SIS bil·  the earlicst advocates of tax cuts),  ferred  summer job placement and  Walter  Nashert,  one  of  two  
lion  in  new  federal  revenues  in  complained that higher excise taxes  Ealier yesterday, sources said the  discussed  issues  such  as  campus  Alumni  Board  Representatives  on  
I 9H3.  will hurt the "little guy" and risk  president had rejected a proposal to  crime, Senior Bar, and social space  the Priorities and Commitments for  
On Thursday, however, the presi­ dcfcat for Republicans.  seek a higher excise tax on beer, as  with students last night during their  Excellence (PACE) Committee, dis­ 
dent  wa..\  describt.·d  by  a  White  Administration sources previous­ some  advisers suggested, and still  annual hall visitations.  cussed the Board's position regard­ 
House official as the "lone holdout"  ly said the president had settled on a  had not decided whether to call for  The halls hosting representatives  ing  campus  crime.  "It  is  
in the face of a unanimous recom­ plan to seek higher excise taxes and  higher taxes on gasoline.  included Morrissey, Howard, Walsh,  inconceivable to us that the sons and  
mendation by his economic advisers  narrow  sevcral  tax "loopholes"  to  Breen-Phillips,  and  Zahm,  each  daughters of Notre Dame have to  
that  he approve  the  budget plan,  keep the projected deficit to about  The sources added that the presi­ reponing a "good-sized" crowd. A  walk the campus in fear," he said.  
including the new taxes.  S 75  billion,  the  largest  deficit  a  dent was still undecided about what  maximum of 50 students per dorm  "We have expressed  our  concern  
"The president is reluctant to give  president  has  ever  proposed  to  items to include under the "luxury"  attended last year's sessions, accord­ and  the  need  to  tighten  campus  
a final sign-off' on boosting excise taxes "and probably will be mulling  Congress. The deficit for fiscal 1982, which  category.  ingto Alumn t i Board representative Paul Kruse, who noted over 100 stu­ security and minimize campus crime, and have been assured that  
it over the weekend," said the offi­ci:U. "He's having second thoughts," the official added. The president plans to disclose the major elements in his budget next Tuesday, when he delivers his State of the Union message to Congress. Reagan's reluctance is said to stem from his concern that any move to  began last Oct. 1, is now projected to approach S I 00 billion, more than twice what Reagan initially projected. Without some tax in­creases in 1983, a similar economic situation is possible in 1983, his economic advisers say. The sources said the revenue from the federal excise taxes would be turned over to the states to finance some 40 federal programs in  Spokesman David Gergen told reporters yesterday that "The presi­dent made it clear to his staff this morning that it would be unwise to engage in additional speculation." Current excise taxes are 8 cents on a package of cigarettes, $10.50, per gallon of 100 proof whiskey, S9 per barrel of beer, l 7 cents per gal­lon ofwine and 4 cents per gallon of ~asolne.  dents in Breen-Phillips. "The publicity was much better this year, centering on the topic ofgreatest in­terest to students ­summer jobs," he said. Kruse added that the Alumni Board of Directors stands 'solidly' behind the need for summer job placement programs at the local club level. He emphasized the momentum of the placement  the necessary steps will be taken to improve the situation. We have every reason to believe that this will happen." Alumnus John Short assured a Morrissey group ofover 160 that the board representatives will stress the importance of not tearing down Senior Bar before building a new See ALUMNI, page 4  




ewsBriefs 


By The Ohsert,er and The Associated Press 
The Reagan administration 
announced yesterday an enforcement crackdown aimed at ending cheating over oil production on federal lands. Because of the cheating, the govern· ment loses S500 million annually. Interior Secretary james Watt pledged to move aggressively to imple· ment 60 recommendations made by a spt:cial five· member commission. After a six-month investigation, the committee found that the govern· ment's royalty collection program has been in "disarray" for over 20 years. President Reagan, receiving the commission's report yesterday, said, "It's unconscionable that this could have been going on all these years." The major problem, the commis· sion found, was tli1t the government is trying to opt:rate a 55-billion program on the honor system, 
essentially trusting the word of oil companies on how much oil and natural gas they are taking from federal lands. -AP 
March 22 is the scheduled date for the thir< flight of the space shuttle Columbia. The twr. astronauts scheduled to fly the mission held a new: conference yesterday at thejohnson Space Center it Houston. They stated that a major objective of thei1 flight is to determine how well the vehicle's system! withstand the extreme heat and cold of space. 
"Although NASA has not yet set an official launch date, we're working toward March 22," said Marine Col. jack Lousma, the mission commander. "We hope to have a firm date soon." Lousma, who spent 56 days in space in 1973 aboard the Skylab Space Station, said the flight is planned for 7 days -more than twice the length ofeither of Columbia's first 2 tests. "We're going to have a very busy week up there," said Air Force Col. Gordon Fullerton, who will be making his first space trip. Lousma said Columbia will be subjected to slightly higher dynamic pressures during both launch and landing to gain additional knowledge about its flight charac­teristics and limits. -AP 
Informed union sources said 
yesterday that Solidarity militants launched an un­derground movement. Poland's hardline army daily newspaper accused the activists of using working people "as a ramrod to smash their way to their tar­get." Solidarity sources said workers in at least one major factory, the Huta Warszawa steel mill, started a movement called the Workers' Committee for So­cial Self-Defense and an underground paper. The 
sources said the martial law regime told plant managers to watch for the posting ofslogans or uni· on banners. Poland's army newspaper, Zolnierz Wolnosci, said that "angry" counter-revolutionary elements from Soliarity had not conceded defeat af­ter the union was suspended and martial law declared Dec. 13 following 16 months of labor up­heave!. The paper has previously said Solidarity aimed at undermining Communist rule in Poland. ­
AP 
A 106-pound boxer is punching at red tape and tradition in an effort to participate in the Golden Gloves tournament in Lansing, MI. Sponsors of the match (which began Wednesday) are worried that Jill Lafler. a 19-year-old who took up boxing in community college, will get wiped out because she's a woman. "I do not want to preside over the first girl in the state of Michigan, or in the world, dropping dead in the ring," said Virginia Zeeb, deputy director of the Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulation. The department sa'ys amateur boxing rules prohibit male-female matches. Ms. Lafler has hired lawyer Paul Rosenbaum to battle the rules. "Here's a per· son who wants to fight, knows how to fight, and the only reason she can't is because she's a woman," he said. "Ifshe gets knocked out, that's her problem. If she knocks a guy out, that's his problem." Ms. Lafler 
won her only amateur match in a three-round deci­sion against a male opponent. "I don't have much of a punch, but I'm pretty quick and I've got en­durance," she said. -AP 
Snow today, turning to freezing rain. 
High in the mid to upper 30s. Tonight, freezing rain changing to rain. Lows in the low to mid 30s. Tomorrow, mostly cloudy, turning colder with chances oflight snow. High in the low to mid 30s. Chances of measurable precipitation -100 per­cent today, 90 pt:rcent tonight. -AP 

Friday, january 22, 1982-page 2 

An emergency worker and two blast. The disaster, which killed fire investigators look for six and injured at least 30 others, evidence which will belp in rsulted from an exploding water determining the cause ofthe fatal beater. 


An unidentified Oklahoma fireman searches through the rubble ofthe cafeteria ofthe elemen· tary school after Tuesday's explosion. 
._,_The_Obs_erYer__ 
Design Editor............................. Mike Monk Design Asslstants........................ Jim Keyes Tim Farrell, Tim Neely Layout Staff.............................. Kim Roman 
Fred Zimmerman 
Typesetter ..................................... Steve Burg News Editor................... David Rickabaugh Copy Editors ............................... Rich Adam 
Paul McGinn Features Layout.............. Gregory Swiercz Sports Copy Editor.................. Ed Konrady Typist ....................................... Laura Degnan ND Day Editor ................ Tom Maclennan SMC Day Edltor...................)oe Musumeci Ad Design. .. ........john & Mary Photographer ........... ............ CheryliErtelt Guest Appearances ...... ............... Emeritus 
Debbie and Max Fr. Robert Griffin and Darbatius Secundus O'Gill 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) ts 
published Monday through Fnday and 
on home football Saturdays except 
dunng exam and vacaliOn penods The 
Observer ts pubttshed by the students 
of Notre Dame and Satnt Marys Cot­
lege SubscnpliOns may be purchased 
for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by 
wnttng The Observer P 0 Box 0 
Notre Dame lndtana 46556 
The Observer ts a memb.er of The 
Associated Press All reproductton 
nghts are reserved 
Second class postage patd at Notre 
Dame. tndtana 46556 


A state police 

SffiC ORIENTATION '81 
APPLICATIONS ARE NOW BEING ACCEPTED FOR: 
Chairman 

Assistant Chairman Social Chairman Big Sister /Little Sister ; Off-CampusChairman Chairman General Committee Transfer Chairman Workers 
Applications are available in the Student Activities Office (166 Lemans Hall) Deadline for applications --Tues. Feb 2, 1982 lease sign up for an interview when _you return your application. 


SUNDAY MASSES AT SACRED HEART CHURC Masses are for Sunday, Jan. 24, 19 8 2 
5:15PM Saturday-----Rev. David E. Schlaver, C.S.C. 
9:00AM Sunday-----Rev. George Wiskirchen 
10:30 AM Sunday-----Rev. Peter Rocca, C.S.C ... 
(Rev. John Yoder, hom1hst) 
12:15 PM Sunday-----Bev. John Fitzgerald, C.S.C. 
7:15PM Vespers_____Dr. Anna Marie Aag~ard, Lutb.eran theo1og1an from 
U. of Aarhus, Denmark 
AP 

Photo File 
bulance attendants remove an injured student from the Star Elementary School where an ex· plosion erupted shortly after noon Tuesday. 
.rhc Observer 
Swartz voices optimism for future urban renewal 
By TIM PETTERS 
News Staff 
Our cities will revitalize them­selves, according to Dr. Tom Swartz of the Notre Dame Economics Department, speaking to a small audient·e in the Library Auditorium last evening. He was optimistic about future urbaq renewal, despite past trends. 
"No amount offederal, state, or lo­cal money will make it happen. It may take 30 years, but eventually, lower prices will make the cities more attractive to invest in." 
Swartz optimism was offset by the possible problem he foresaw. "There would be a real tragedy ifthis regrowth forced the poor into the suburbs," he said. 
"The more afiluent people in the suburbs have transportation to off­set the disadvantages of living so far out. lftht· poor move out there, they will have new problems because of the decentralized location." added Swartz. 
Swartz began his talk by discuss­ing the reasons that the allluent people began leaving the cities. "The allluent have always been able to pick up and leave if they did not like where they were. Once people began to leave. either no new people 
Most An1ericans oppose abortion ban 
NEW YORK ( AP) -Nine years af­ter the U.S. Supreme <.:ourt legalized abortion, 3 of 4 Amcrkans oppose a constitutional amendment which would allow <.:ongrcss to ban abor­tions, according to the latest As­sociated Press-NBC News poll. 
The nationwide telephone poll oft I,S97 adults involved scientific ran­dom sampling on Monday and Tues­day. The poll taker asked, "Do you favor or oppose an amendment to the Constitution which would give Congress the authority to prohibit 
abortions?" 
Seventy-five percent said they oppose a constitutional amendment; 19 percent said they favored a con­stitutional amendment, and 6 per­cent were not sure. 
There was also strong support among respondents for two posi­tions espoused by abortion rights groups. 
Fifty-seven percent said they agree with the statement, "Every woman who wants to have an abor­tion should be able to have one." 
Seventy-seven percent said they agn·e with the statement, "The deci­sion to have an abortion should be left to the woman and her physician." The 77 percent included S9 perct·nt who said they "strongly" support that position and 18 percent 
who "mildly" favor it. 
It was on Jan. .22, 1973 that the Supreme Court handed down its landmark decision legalizing abor­tion nationwide. 
Friday, January 22, 1982 -page 3 

There's trouble right here at have their picture taken, perhaps lowances. (Photos by Cheryl Er­Notre Dame. These two young fearing that their mothers will telt) pool sharks appear unwilling to find out where they spend their al-




WELCOME! 
8200 0FF II 
Any large Deep Dish Sicilian Pizza 1 G0od at Cl"veland Road store across 1 frorn Unl'vl-'rolt~ Park Mali • 277-S30() I (J""'-''U~J''"i"''>•·/·'" f.xfJ.rn .ian. ~I.I'JS2 I 
••~~ble'IWmaJtS•••• 

FREE I 
Pitcher of Coke 
I 
with any large Monster Pizza Ciood at Cleveland Road store acro~s I frorn UrHvers1ty Park Mall • 277-5JOll I o"'' '"uP"" I'"' P~' r:,rllr''' .I an. ~I. I'JS2 I 
••~Noble'IWmaJt's •••••._..._._... ......... _......_....,.._~.. 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION's 
ANNVAL 
SPRING BREAKIN DAYTONA BEACH 
came. or the ones who did were not as well off a~ the om:s who left. This seriously cut into city revenues. 
"Add to this the recent tax decreases, starting with 'Proposition 13' in California, and continuing un­til now with Reagan's programs. The net effect has been to reduce city incomes dramaticly. The situation is becoming desperate. 
"Market influences will bring the cities back. Since 197S, there has been a return of young professional people to the cities. So far, the num­bers are small, but the impact has been great. This return is necessary if the cities are to remain economi­cally viable." 
Swartz approved of President 
Reagan's economic policies, but dis­
counted their importance. "The cur­rent administration does not have enough time, and will have to bow to political pressure and soften the program. When this happens, the program will be crippled." He also implied that the very poor would not renevt• much of the benefits from the Reagan program. 
Throughout the lecture, Swartz expressed his optimism and affec­tion for tht· cities. "Cities arc the hub of our culture. What we have to overcome is the tendency to think of cities as dirty, nasty, and ugly." 
The 7-.2 decision in the case filed by a Texas woman said the decision to have an abortion wa~ up to a woman and her doctor during the first three months ofpregnancy, and said government could not restrict abortion during the first trimester. 
The decision said abortion wao; also legal during the second three months of pregnancy, but there could be medical restrictions to protect the woman's an's health. During the last three months of pregnancy, the court said, govern­ment could impose restrictions on abortion to protect the fetus as well ao; the mother. 
Escort 
•

servzce evaluated 
Notre Dame Student Government announced yesterday that from Jan. .24 to Feb. 4 the student escort service will be evaluated on its per­formance. 
The evaluation seeks to determine the viability and ef­fectiveness of the service. 
The service is available from the Memorial Library Lobby from 10 to I I :4S p.m., Sunday through Thursday. 

GENERAL MEETING 
BEFORE THE BOWL 

MARCH 12 · 21, 1982 
AmJ11gn11mls by Et:HO TRAVEL. INC. 
MCI51f71F 
SIX PER ROOM (~ DOUBLE BEDS)




$197 
FOUR PER ROOM (Z DOtJiU BEDS) · Guarameetl kil<:henette 

$209 
ur oceanfront available at small atltlillonal charge. 
TRIP INaUDES · Roundtrip mowr cn~<-h transponation \'ta motlern htghwav <-oachc:s to Daytona 8c:a<·h. Florida leaving Friday, March 12. arrtvtng thr followmglhty. llu· return trip tlc:pans the: following Saturday arriving home: ~untlar 
-Seven mghh accommodalions at the lx;outiful and excttmg Plaza Hotel of Daytona lkach. Located at 600 Nonh Atlanlic Avr:. it is tht' most d~:manded hotel on tht' strip ac that lime 
· A truly greac schedule of activities mcluding our famous pool deck panir:s and belly flop concnt · Opcional excursions available co Disney World and !>Cveral ocher anraccion.,_ · Numerous bar anti restauranl discouncs arranged in Daytona Beach for you. · The services of full cime !ravel representalives to insure a crouble-frer trip. · All taxes anti gratuilirs 

OUR TRIPS AREALWAYS THE BESTDEAL AND THE BEST TIME The Piau Hocel, locaced rigln in 1~ middle ofLhe scrip, Is ddlnlldy!heplace co be durillJI spring break. Ask anyone who has been co Daytona. 1be hold has a pool, big pany deck. re51auranc, four ban, colorlV, air condilionn:l roomsand plmcyofactlvilln. Picturn :att available when: you sigl1 up. Our mocor coaches are nochlflJI btJIIhehighnl qualityhlgJiwzy coaches. We also gi~ you more excras wilh our crip chan aJ1)IOile else. Don'! blowII and go on a lower qualicy !rip. 
LAST Y.&tR OYEII7S PEOPLEHAD 17/ETIME fN 17/II/RUFE ONTHIS TRIP. 
SIGN UP NOW AT THE 
TICKET OFFICE/ 
RECORD STORE 
10 AM 4 PM, 


MON. FRI. 

OR CALL 283-3031 

---~---~ 
Friday, January 22, 1982-page 4 ,
The Observer 
...Focus 
Order it now to wear to your next alumni party. A perfect gift for that staunch NO fan you know. LCD NO Fight Sona digital watch available in mens style. white or L---------~----~~-~----------•
Offer good thru Feb. 22, 1982 
yellow gold. Lighted display. 24 hr. alarm. 
Manufacturer"s 1 yr. warranty. Satisfaction guaranteed-if this product isn·t everything you expect. simply return it in new condition within 30 days for complete refund. 
Order today. lnd1ana residents add 4 )'o sales tax. Send check or money order or VISA/Mastercharge numbers and expiration dates. Dealer inquiries invited. Allow 8-1 0 weeks for delivery. 





N.D."VICTORY 


f.ay€tt€ BaR anb CjRtll 206 € n lam StREEt bowntown ntl€s 
684-7770 
5€RVIn4 [lCjyRos & 5P€Cialty sanbw1ch€S [lCjlant WOBBL€BUR4€R, b€l1CIOUS Chill [lCh1Ck€n & ShRimp Ba$k€ts [lSt€ak SanbwJCh€s ~oR two 
$6.99 5-9pm mon.-thuRs. 
happy houR...................mon .-thuRsbay 3-6 pm PltCh€R B€€R SP€Cials ....mon., tu€S., W€b. nJt€S labi€S bRmks hatr PRIC€ ...........Sat. nit€ 9-12 pm 
continuedfrom page 1 
help," he said. 

According to the American Dental Association, no states allow the inde­pendent practice of dental hygiene. Hygienists have challenged this policy in Michigan and Georgia, and 
lost both times. 

Ms.Edwards is appealing her license revocation to the state's Commonwealth Court. Criminal "charges against her have been dropped pending the court's deci­
sion 

Joseph Castellino, Ms. Edward's 
attorney, says dental hygienists must 
take certain courses ad examina­
tions to qualil:)r for licenses; the state 
then considers them competent in 
their field. 

On catnpus housing fulfills all requests 
By CHUCK ZAMMIT 
News Staff 

Fr. Michael J. Hcppen, director of student residences, said yes­terday that no one remains on the waiting list for rooms on campus. 
Fr. Heppen stated that only 90 percent of available rooms in Pasqucrilla East arc filled and that with a few exceptions, those people requesting single rooms, have received on campus housing. 
He stressed that all room con­tracts for the spring semester must be returned by Feb. 2. 
He noted that students who are not planning to reside on 
"The additional requirement of dental supervision does nothing to advance or to insure the com­petency ofdental hygienists.._. It has no rational or logical relationship to the patient's needs or the com­petency ofthe hygienist," Castellino said in a brieffiled with the court. He asked that the requirement be found unconstitutional. 
John Flynn, an attorney for the state dental board, said he will argue that "it is within the state's police powers" to regulate hygienists. 
Ms. Edwards' grandfather, a den­tist, saw patients in the same office she now uses. He tried to set up an independent practice for her mot­her, a dental hygienist, in that office 
-but ran into trouble with the au­
thorities. 
campus this fall should marK "O.C." on their contracts. This will facilitate a quick return of the SSO.OO room deposit. Those students who sign and return the contract and subsequently decide to move off campus will forfeit SI50.00 for failure to ful­fill the contract. 
Heppen stated in a letter that all contracts must be returned personally, and no contracts will be accepted from on campus stu­dents ifthey are mailed. 
The only exception is con­tracts from students currently studying in Notre Dame or St. Mary's foreign programs. Room reservations will take place in each hall on April 28, 29, and 30. 

Says Ms. Edwards, whose sister is also a hygienist: "We've been trying this since 1933." 
The tall, black-haired woman accuses dentists of ignoring new techniques. 
... Alumni 
continuedfrom page 1 

stucture at a meeting today with Stu­dent Affairs Vice-President Fr. John Van Wolvlear, according to Junior Ken Golonka. 
Student social space was dicussed in the Flanner session, with alumni indicating that there is support from the Alumni Board for a new student center, junior Tom Koegel noted. Koegel added that the representatives said a new center is one of the top concerns of the Trus­tees, and is becoming a more legitimate issue because of Student Government and Student Body President Don Murday's presenta­tions. 
Thomas Maus asked Breen­Phillips students how they perceive alumni activities in the field, emphasizing the need for younger members on the Alumni Board. "There are 18 board positions, and indicative of need, the Alumni (Board) recently created 3 'at large' posts to represent the younger people in the Association," he said. 
The sessions were beneficial 
because they provided another avenue through which students could ob t rain summer jobs, accord­ing to Junior Denise Smith. Senior Kevin Madosky noted that the eve­ning was interesting because it brought students together with alumni. "I was able to see how they operate," he said. 
MELODY ALARM WATCH THAT PLAYS A FULL MINUTE OF THE IRISH FIGHT SONG. 
Set the alarm to play the Victory March·· to remind you of the start of the game or JUSt press to play at any time. 

all, 

----------------------------,
ORDER FORM 
NAME .................................................................................. . 
ADDRESS ............................................................................ . 
CITY.......................... STATE.......... ZIP ................... . 
gold~$44.95) VISA ............................ . silver~(~~~~~~;-~--~~--~--~--~~~ Mastercharge .............. . 


sky. What tho' the odds be great or small, Old No -tre Dame will win ov -·er 
--­-------"""1  
-------·----------··-·--­ 
The Observer  Friday,January 22, 1982-p<~ge 5  

Despite official disapproval 


U.S. firms arm Libya 
WASHII'IGTON (AP) -Despite pil -for allegedly shipping ex­other military equipment through 
li.S. disapproval of Libya's radical plosives to Libya in 1976-77 and normal commercial channels. government, American firms have providing experts to train potential supplkd its military with S';3 mil­terrorists in their use. The exports occurred despite a lion in weapons and materiels -While some American officials long-standing ll.S. policy dating to 
with some sales coming as late as last portray the Wilson-Tcrpilcasc: as an the 1970s which rules against year, government documents show. unusual circumvention of U.S. ex­supplying Khadafy with military Tht• American-made equipment, port controls, the documents show hardware, said a State Department 
exported to Libya since Moammar that U.S. firms have routindy official who asked not to be iden­Khadafy seized power in 1969, supplied Khadafy with weapons and tified. ranges from military cargo planes to weapon-sighting devices and guided missile components, according to documents obtained by tht· As­
Divers pull six more 
sociated ated Press. 
U.S. firms also sold Libya's govt·rn­nu:nt artillery parts, ammunition, 

bodies from wreckage
heavy trU<:ks, uniforms, and jet 
engines, the documents say. WASHINGTON (AP) -Divers aminer still would not say that Wil­
Administration officials said they pulled six more bodies from the icy liams might be the man who helped 
have found no evidence that the ex­Potomac River on yesterday, leaving the other survivors. 
pons to Libya were ilk-gal, although only one not yet recovered from the Regarding the tape, the Orlando 
they note that the documents used crash of an Air Florida jetliner that Sentinel in Florida reported that the 
to compile the export figures arc killed 78 people. last thing heard on the voice re­
destroyed every three years. Police spokesmen said the corder recovered Wednesday was 
The documents show that remaining body was that ofan infant. one of the crew members exclaim­
military-related shipments con­Federal investigators, meanwhile, ing, "Get the nose down ... we're 
tinued last year, as President Reagan concentrated on reviewing the criti­going to go in." 
expelled Libyan diplomats lrom the cal cockpit voice recorder they The report was attributed to an United States when U.S. jets shot hope will shed some light on why unidentified "source." down two Libyan warplanes in the the Boeing 7 3 7 failed to gain altitude Ira Furman, spokesman for the Na­Gulf of Sidra near the oil-rich Arab on takeoff during a snowstorm Jan. tional Transportation Safety Board, nation. Reagan accused Khadafy of 13, clipping a busy commuter said when asked to comment, "At being a key supporter of global ter­bridge and crashing beneath the ice. this time, we'll neither confirm nor rorism. Four motorists on the bridge were deny any reports about what's on 
The Census Bun-au, which tab­among those killed. A stewardess that tape." 
ulates all U.S. exports and imports, and four passengers were rescued. Earlier, Francis McAdams, who is counted 52.3 million in military­James L. Luke, chief medical ex­overseeing the investigation for the rdated supplies to Libya in the tlrst aminer for the District ofColumbia, NTSB, said the cockpit tape showed I I months of 19!-1 I, according to the said 70 of the 73 bodies recovered nothing of crew members' voices latest figures. from the aircraft have been iden­that indicated a particular cause for 
The Rt·agan administration cited tified. All but one of those 70 ap­the crash. "national security" concerns yester­parently died from severe trauma, "There arc several things we are day in refusing to say what the 19!-1 I indicating they perished as a result going to have to look at in quite shipments were, though govern­of the crash impact and not from greater depth... but at this time there ment sources indkate they were drowning. isn't anything we're going to focus primarily military uniforms. The medical findings again raised on to the exclusion of some other 
Commerce Department spokes­questions about the identity of a factors," McAdams said. men declined to explain what middle-aged man who sacrificed his "national security" interests were own life by repeatedly handing a life In other developments, the Pen­involved in keeping secret the types ring from a hovering helicopter to tagon said it had recovered "all of items sold Libya in the last five others awaiting rescue. The man dis­known classified documents" years. A breakdown of earlier ex­appeared beneath the water before carried by two Army officers aboard ports was released to the AP after an the helicopter could return for a the planes. 
appeal was filed under the Freedom final trip. The documents, none classified of Information Act. Of the 70 identified, Arland Wil­higher than "secret," were in 
Rt·p. Millicent Fenwick, R-N.j., liams, 46, of Atlanta, a bank ex­briefcases fished out of the river, who sponsored a 1979 law aimed at aminer for the Federal Reserve said Col. Ron Duchin. diS<.·ouraging U.S. military sales of Board, died of exposure and drown­It is against the law to carry docu­over J7 million to countries that fo­ing, instead of the crash itself, Luke ments with a higher classification ment terrorism, said military ex­said earlier. But the medical ex-aboard <.'ommercial transportation. 
ports ofeven· modest amounts were "absolutely intolerable." The New York Times reported yesterday that 400 heavy-duty ll.S.­
Features becomes
made trucks sold to Libya four years 
ago, ostensibly for farming, have 
been converted for hauling Soviet 


SHOWCASE
tanks. The NYT said the conversion 
illustrates the problem of enforcing 
government bans on the export of 
Monday
military equipment to unfriendly states. 
In 19!-10, the federal government indicted two former CIA agents ­Edwin P. Wilson and Francis E. Ter-
Watchfor it! ! ! 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l 
t~('ffll GREAT WALL Spec•al
t ~--~·:-··· GREAT WALL "REUBEN" t tiJI!IrChinese & American Restaurant • corn beef t , 1 & Cocktail Lounge • sauerkraut t 
f , Banqu~t rooms auailabl• Banqu•t 5 9roup rat•s auailabl• • SWiSS Cheese ~ 
t THE WHOLE TOWN IS TALKING... e thousand isle dressing t t About our Fantastic Cuisine and our on rye bread with french t t Great Chinese/American Buffet fries t! for only $199 / ______!-l·J~-----.l ' Now For Your Pleasure We Feature HOURS: t
f The Following Choice of Family Specials Mon.·Thurs.-1~:30s.m.-1~!00p.m. ' 
Fri.&Set.11.30s.m.-11.00p.m. f
f Fri.: e Baked Cod in lemon sauce s~n.&Holldays11:30a.m.-9:oo~m., t e Roast Pork Egg Foo Young II Ill r, t ~ t Sat.: e Veal Parmesan $~ 9 5 u 
t e Sweet&SourPork ~. ;~· t & Su11.: e Deep Fried Chicken SOUTHIEIID ! .,._ t ' eszechuan Beef with Broccoli_ ~~m t
t e All above Chinese specials served with soup and non-alcoholiC beverage, Cl 
& e All ~~:~;~~~=;;~aeng:::~ials served with potato, vegetable, rolls, and of course ~ 7~ •73 7 6 t 
f our fantastic 25 item salad bar. ./. ./. & 

Join us for Student Specials every Monday Night 8 pm to closing 12 oz. drafts SOc 30%offsaleon 
Hot Dogs SOc selected items 
Open till 3 am daily Mon.-Sat. Carry out til 3am daily 

Beer, Wine, Liquor and Food to Go 


<II 
;;. 
~ 
0 
z 

Ma~terCard 
WE HONOR BOTH 
You must b,we fJicture ID tbat says you are 21. 





EASY RIDER 
AuthenticIi:aiiJn Style Dinners · servlng-lunch,dinners, and cocktails 
pastas ·iiJiJfi. 5cpecials 
spagbetti la$4 .ala Parisi mastaccioli,_ /.;~;: ..:!f!~tu. sandwiche$?·,:;:·· ·· 
meatball.··· 

Italian beef Also, from tbe origi1Jdl~~ Recipe superbly bakedto! 
a choice ofthin orthick cr. PIZZA 
small, med' all ingredie Hours 

tues-wed·th fri 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.._..~..--.~~..-..~~~~~~..., 
~-------~-­

The Observer Friday, january 22, 1982 -page 6 





-

With all of your old favorites from cas. 
JANIS JOPLIN'S

+GWethe~ltofmusk. ______ 
GREATEST JUTS 

including: Me And Bobby McGee/Down On Me 
DAN FOGELBERGRIDIN' THE STORM OUT 

Piece Of My Heart/Try (Just A Little Bit Harder) 
SOUVENIRS

R.E.O.SPEEDWAGON Ball And Chain 
tncludmg
tnclud•ng Part Of The Plan Better Change Its Everywhere 1Wtthout Expresston/Movtn 

llltnots, Changtng Horses ,------------_!___;~;;on Of A Poor Man /Rtdtn The Storm Out 
Th"'e s A Place In The World For A 

BOOKENDS/SIMON &GARFUNKEL CAROLE KiNG 
including: Fakin' It /Old Friends/Bookends Theme/Overs 
TApESTRY

A Hazy Shade of Winter/Mrs. Robinson mclumng: I Feel The Earth Move So Far Away Its Too Late You ve Got A Fnend Where You Lead Will You Love Me Tomorrow'> Smack water Jack 
BARBRA STREISAND STREISAND SUPERMAN
TED NUGENT 
FREE-FOR-ALL 

The 
including: Dog Eat Dog/Hammerdown On The Wall/Street Rats/Turn It Up 
Charlie Daniels Band .i/IP 
Saddle Tramp 
mcluding: DIXIe On My Mind/Sweet LouiSiana W1chlta Ja1l Cumberland Mountain Number Nine 
It's 

Albums 
Only••• 
including: My Heart Belongs To Me Don't Believe What You Read/Answer Me Lullaby For Myself INew York State Of Mind 
Kenny Lo~.:~.:ins Celebrate Me Home 
including: Enter My Dream/ Why Do People Lie I've Got The Melody (Deep In My Heart) Daddy's Back/Lady Luck 
:;:::::::::::::::r···:~:::::::::::::···· 
mcludmg: Angry Eyes Vahevala1My Mus1c Th1nk1ng Of You Your Mama Don t Dance 


BILLYJOEL STREETLIFE SERENADE 
mcludtng. 
The Enterta1ner Los Angelenos/Last Of The B1g T1me Spenders Root Beer Rag /Weekend Song 

Many More To Choose From! ~-~----ft•das "Priest____ !
Electric Light Orchestra 
A NEW WORLD RECORD 
SIN AFTER SIN 

mcludmg: My L1ttle Town,50 Ways To Leave Your Lover Gone AI Last/Have A Good Time Still Crazy After All These Years 


""""""""'v, .. j 

~t the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Friday,January 22, 1982-page 7 



Editorials 
Young farmers face financial crises 
The 7,000 farmers who attended year while over head -farm equip­Downplaying farmers' complants, young farmers need. Those we spoke the annual Ameril:an Farm Bureau ment, seed, fertilizers, energy and officials in Washington point to a with here have grown up on farms Maxwell Glen convention last week didn't seem land-has skyrocketed. "I haven't new I 0-state, 81 country project and live and breathe farming met­oppressed. Between a videotaped seen anything like this since the known as ·'The New Full-Time hods. They have taken vocational 
and Cody Shearer 

~reeling from President Reagan and a Depression,''remarked Park Rinard. Family Farmer and Rancher agriculture courses since they were personal appearance by Interior administrative assistant to Rep. Neal Development Program," which they 15, know what to plant, when to Here and Now Secretary James Watt, most of the Smith (D-Iowa). say will help rescue young farmers plant and how to buy anti sell. tlelegatcs spent ihetr time here sun­When a tractor retails for $50,000, from their plight. What young farmers neetl is tinan­higher prices. 
ning-not griping. cats up to $350 in fuel on a harvest or According to the new plan, the cial aid, anti the government seems 
No one shoultl tloubt which party But the rnootl changetl after <.lark, planting day. and represents only a USDA intends to encourage informal reluctant to meet their needs. The im­
deserves government support mon:. when many of the successful, fraction of a farmer's incredible in­partnerships between young and plications of Uncle Sam's weak 
Young farm~:rs comprise one of our pn:tlominantly mitltllc-agetl farmers vestment, it's easy to see why young retired farmers in an effort to make response should be clear to even the 
nation's most vital resources and arc woultl hutldlc around hotel bars and farmers arc -more than ever -a the former more attractive as loan most rarefied urbanite: Unless oppor­a worthy investment. admit that th~: deck was stacked dying breed. prospects in the private sector. tunities for aspiring farmers increase, "1 don't know if I'm going to against their chiltlren. To make matters worse. the Farm . Presumably. the atlvice of oltl pros small family fanns will continue to make it," admilled Doug Schwartz, Fear~ of another Soviet grain em­Home Administration (FmHA), · will make their proteges better agri­be gobbled up by larger 21, of Whinton, Kansas, who's in bargo tlominated jawboning, and which has tratlitionally offeretl affor­business. agribusinesses. Corporate control of debt $300,000. "But I'm young anti there were plenty of complaints dable start-up loans to young far­Whatever the government's inten­our nation· s bread basket would in­I got years to work and that's my b•g­about high interest rates and low farm mers. has toltl thousantls of those tions, grandfatherly advice isn't what evitably lead to less competition and gest asset.·· prices. The farmers, however, were who are in trouble by letter recently most grateful that they wern 't enter­to consitler foltling while they still ing the business today. And, of have some equity left. Otwiously this course, less-well-off farmers who move has chilled relations with the couldn't attend the convention younger generation. agreed only more adamantly. "The young farmers that I've " I inherited my place from my been meeting <.luring state fam1 dadtly," said Richartl Christianson, forums this month arc furious.'· said 61, who raises hogs and cattle on a Rep. Byron Dogan(D-N.D.). "They metlium-sizcd farm ncar Maxwell, feel abandoned by the Farm Home· Neb." It's hecn in thl· family for Administration. Last .year that three generations. My boys were agency encouragetl them to expantl going to take it over, but with condi­their upC1'ations. and now it'~ telling tions like they arc, they've had to get them to get out of farming." · work elscw here." Any farmer who got his start in the Indeed. the old farming adage last 50 years will tell you that the that, "You either marry it or inherit FmHA ha~ always been willing to go it." has gone with the wind. Instead the extra mile for farmers anti grant of "taking over" the family spread, reprieves hefore foreclosing. Yet the today's young farmers word as hired agency's butlgct this year is a third of hands from five to I 0 years before what it was in 1981. In North Dakota moving up to the position of farm alone. 300 farmers have alemJy manager for someone else. The op­receivetl the FmHA letter. portunity to buy or rent a farm on Rep. Dorgan and groups such as one· sown by llge 30 is no longer pos­the Iowa Fanners Union have asked sible for must. FmHA to impose a one-year The reason is prices: nearly moratorium on foreclosures ·'in in­t•veryone here says llJX I and 1982 stances where management has been could go down as the worst two years responsible but low prices and high in recent farming history. Wholesale interest rates have combined into a prices for Great Plains agricultural nearly impossible situation." Yet the products; for example. have tlroppcd Department of Agriculture has <.lone hetween 35 anti 40 percent since last little to help struggling farmers. 
Communism· needs terror to survive 
In Time magazine's "Man of the My only disappointment with the martial law. It was ZOMO that was director of the Chcka (The prctleccs­Year" issue, dated January 4, 1982, essay is that it took such a long time responsible for the deaths of eight sorofthe KGB), Felix Dzerzhinsky, there is an cxtraortlinary nine-page to appear. Lessons about Com­miners in Katowice. ZOMO troops was equally outspoken. "We stand Andy Cochran essay titletl, "Communism: The munism in theory and practice have are selcted on the basis of their dis­for organized terror.·· Although the Spector anti the Struggle.'' The tirst been piling up for 64 years since the tlain for their fellow Poles. Some are names ofthe So vet secret police have 
sentence leaves the reader with no Soviet Union was born. Tens of mil­convicted felons whose record is for­been changed from the Cheka to the doubt as to its tlircction. "Poland in lions have dietl at the hands of the given in exchange for service with NKVD to the KGB, the structure and the past year and a half has taught the Soviet secret police and their pupils ZOMO. function have not. world a lesson that is both stark and around the worltl. Hundreds of mil­That ZOMO units shoud be so ef­Lenin declared in 1920, "The undcniotblc: as a means of organizing lions have been enslaved by Marxist fective should not be surprising. scientific concept of dictatorship hermen Underground anti the Black 
an economy anti providing for the social engineers. The record of There is over sixty years of ex­means rteither more nor less than un­Liberation Army in the U.S., the wt:ll-bcing of a citizenry, Com­Marxist economics is abysmal. The perience wth terror within the Soviet limited power resting directly on IRA, the PLO, the Italian Red munism is a failure." The essay is as Polish collapse and military coup are Union. Lenin emphasized the use of force, not limitetl by anything, nor Brigade, the Polisario in the Western 
concise anti reatlable a critique of the everyday events in Marxist history. terror to subjugate the masses early in restrained by any laws or any ab­Sahara, the SWAPO group in An­failing of Marxist theory anti Soviet­As in all Marxist tlictatorships, the his reign. "The energy and mass solute rules. Nothing else but that." gola, Nicaragua's Santlanistas, anti style Communism as I have ever key to the .Polish regime's lockgrip nature of terror must be en­Lenin's followers in the Soviet Uni­the Baader-Meinhof Gang in West seen. It is extraordinary because it .over the Poles has been the use of couraged... The courts must not ban on and other countries have adhered Germany arc terrorist groups which appears in a popular magazine which legalized terror. The primary arm of terror... but must formulate the strictly to his detinition. Estimates of have beeen trained, armed and has been considered by many in the terror has been the 20,000 to 25,000 motives underlying it, legalize it as a deaths by brutal force in the Soviet funded by the KGB, either directly or past to he a bastion of Eastern Es­troops known as ZOMO. During the principle, plainly, without make­Union t range from 20 to 60 million. through puppet regimes in Cuba, tablishment liberalism. I would ex­cracktlown, it was ZOMO units that believe or embellishment. It is the KGB has been active in training East Germany, Libya and South pect to see it in National Review, not broke up most of the tlemonstrations necessary to formulate it as widely as terrorist groups throughout the world Yemen. We can now adtlto this in­Time. that erupted after the imposition of of possible." Lenin's handpicked for the past fifteen vears. The Weat-famous list ZOMO of Poland. 


Founded November 3, 1966 

The ObJerver is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report· · ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, ii encourilged. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Editorial Board 
l:'dill•r-in·Chief.......... ...................John .\1t:<irath 

t:.wcutir•e .Veu•s Editor..  . ..  Kdli flint  Sports Editor..............................  Skip Desjardin  
.\'eu·s Editor............. ............... David Hit·kahau~h  Photo Etlitor ....................................... .John Macor  
S.UC 1:'.\·ecutir•t• t:tlitor  \1ary Agn~:s Car~:~  Editorials Editor..................... .Anthony Walton  
S.UC .Veu·s Editor................. .... Cathy Domanil'o  Features Editor .........................Grcr,ory Swiercz  


Department Managers 

Business .HtliUI!I,er ............... .. .. Rich Coppola Production Munager ...................Michael Monk (tm lrt)/h•r.............................................)•ll' .\1 ultlur Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan Adl'erlisin!l, JltllltiJ!er.......................<:hris ()wen S)•stems Manager ........................... Bruce Oakley 


Friday,January 22, 1982-page 8




Eeatures 

Collegiate Cold war 
majors are demanding a new 


going to do with that?" the gang asks. 
"space" to hold their classroom" 
He tries to defend himself. "Live," he happenings" and threaten to destroy answers with a slight grin. They
Campus Ministry's now priceless 
laugh.collection ofNew Yorker cartoons 
Ofcourse this is "all in good fun." unless their demands are met. 
Jokes such as this are easy to make Or...In November of'87 the entire to get to their spot at the top ofthe and give us a chance to fill the gaps 
Electrical Engineering Department heap. (The jargon is familiar, no?) in dinner conversations. But in storms O'Shaughnessy Hall and They will undoubtedly hate their every joke there is something more holds Philosophy Department job, adore their paycheck and try to than just a chuckle. Chairman, Dr. Andy Rooney 
buy their happiness with big cars, The worst part ofa career, a friend hostage. Their demand: Elimination summer homes and lots ofBourbon. 
once told me, is that it is an identity. ofthe philosophy graduation re­Professionals are not bothered by 
After you graduate youare what you
T
here is quiet b~t viciou~ battle 
quirement. 

this bleeding-heart jibberish. do -engineer, teacher, accountant.
raging here. It ts much hke the 

In 1982 the battle is fought with Academics, they know, are 
People rarely let you describe your­
Civil war, but not really; it is like the 
innuendo and sarcasm. 

vagabound idealists whose "st:arch selffurther; they find out what youCold war; almost. But unless some The opposing sides are not easily for truth and meaning" is a coverup. are and let their imaginations take it catastrophic incident catapults it in­identified. For the most part the They are scaredy-cats who can't face from there.
to importance it will never appear in 

battle is fought between the Profes­reality, lazies who cringe at the word We are comfortable with our 
a historv book. 
sionals and the Academics. Profes­"responsibility." stereotypes ofothers and are careful sionals wish to be in school so they Academics want to stay at school not to step too far out ofour own 
can get a good job;Academics wish forever because they don't want to categories. Even curiousity, as
Paul Kosidowski 

to be in school so they can be in work. They can't sort out their own powerful as it may be, is not enough school. lives so they pretend to try and solve to displace us from the comfort ofSecond Thoughts This basic division, which I make the world's problems -hunger, 
our misunderstanding. without any intention ofidentifying 
war, the whole works. Ies unfortunate that weI can vaguely imagine such an thegoodguys or the badguys, is not The silence ofthis war is sometimes consider certain thingsincident...In 1988 A group ofArt apparent to the passive observer. 
sometime broken by small skir­"useless to know," especially whenmajors barricade themselves and an TheAcademics know what the mishes. An engineering professor others value them so highly. There isarsenal ofhomemade explosives enemy is like. Professionals are an talks ofthe oppositions technical as much wonder and creativeinside the library. They are protest­amoral lot, caught up in a relentless stupidity: "The people over there in energy in a smooth running assemb­ing the University's scheduling ofall pursuit ofthe almighty dollar. They the other building...you know the ly line as there is in a good poem. It istheir classes in Elkhart. The ad­have no interest in improving ones who won't get jobs." just a matter oflearning to ap­ministration's reasons? "There was society -only their place in it -A sophomore English major is ac­preciate it.
just not enough room for all the 

and will trample anyone or anything costed in a dark alley. "What are you History testifies that a middle-Engineering students." The Art 

'Absence of Malice' leaves absent meaning 
E
ven before I went to see Sydney man arises like a Phoenix from the Pollack'sAbsence ofMalice, I broken Gallagher and, in perfect knew that I could not be satisfied un­Hollywood style, the underdog has less the film was something more the last laugh. 
Unfortunately, when it came to 
handing out brains, Sally Field's 

Megan Carter seems to have fallen 

Dennis Chalifour 

asleep in the cute line. Retlected off 
the complex Gallagher, Megan is 
Movies pathetically naive and remains so for 
the entire motion picture. For a 34 than an extended episode of Lou year old news reporter about to be Grant. Not that I've got anything promoted to editor, Carter makes against Lou Grant. It's a great show, too many mistakes. In fact she makes but three dollars and seventy-five the same mistake three times and cents excites the basic human then is ready to write off the whole propensity that the movies should movie like a vist to summer camp. go beyond the limited (albeit well 
What is most annoying about Megandone) themes ofa television show. 
is her refusal to learn her lesson. 
In many ways, Absence of Malice Whenever a major character is does satis.fy the prerequisites I've chased up a tree in a motion picture,laid down here. Pollack gets off to a I expect that they'll get her down in good start. Under the titles we see a better shape than she started a result 

blurred group of newspaper people of the hundred and twenty minutes 



ground between the ideal and the real does exist. Societies would stagnate without it. The exploration ofthis territory demands Engineers and Business leaders who know the ideas and dreams ofgreat thinkers. It needs philosphers who have studied the concept of justice and know how this justice can be turned into economic and industrial reality. 
I was truly moved at last year's commencement by the valedictory. Itcalled for great things from a great class, a lot of"world-shakin'." It was idealistic. Itwas realistic. Thousands ofpeople were listening and after­ward they all stood up and ap­plauded. Kurt Waldheim applauded; Pat O'Brien applauded. Great men from every faction ofsociety ap­plauded. And I applauded. 
Well think ofthat. 


dissipate into the cold and hard type on the screen of a computer ter­
mi t nal. The mechanical business of 
news takes over through a press 
montage and the literal powerofthe 
pen becomes apparent. There are certainly many points that arise here about the ethics of mass com­
munications. 
Kurt I.eudtke's taut storyline rein­forces the theme. Megan Carter (Sally Field is a newspaper dupe for the D.A.'s office which leaks in­formation in an effort to apply pressure upon Michael Gallagher (Paul Newman).) The pressure is ef­fective, but Gallagher is innocent, and in turn his life is ruined. Paul Newman presents Gallagher at the film's beginning as an ordinary beer­
drinking guy next door. He's a guy 
unlike anyone you could imagine 
Paul Newman associating with, let 
alone making a film about. But take 
that same man, push him to the limit 
and you've got a character born for 
the movies. The street smart New-

she spent up there. This is my major gripe withAbsence ofMalice. The same feisty yet cute little pussy cat that climbs the tree at the beginning merrily skips away in the end, totally unchanged. 
While Newman gets a chance to exercise his talent, Field is stifled by the one-dimensionality of Meg Car­ter and reverts to some ofthe tricks she learned on TheF~ying Nun. Yet Carter remains the only substantial hole in the film. The supporting cast is top-notch wth Bob Balaban leading the pack as Elliot Rosen, the justice department investigator who sets everything in motion. 
Ifyou're looking for a newspaper hero story, stay away from this one. It's more complex than an episode of Lou Grant but Sally Feild's Mister Rogers protagonist keeps this movie from ever taking off. Stili,Absence of Malice remains a flawed but provocative look at newspaper et­hics. 
The Observer--Features Friday, january 22, 1982 -page 9 


Ho-w do you lose an albatross? 
F
riendship, like the weather, has its seasons, and the first change comes and passes away almost before you notice it, like a wisp ofcloud that tloats across the 


Rev. Robert iiriffin
face of the sun. Instruments pick up signs ofa coming storm very t•arly. Some people don't even realize it's r:tining umilthcy read the weather report in the eve­ning news. But there arc always warning signs. The Letters to a Lonely God problem is, we don't want to imagine that rain drops arc falling on our Ill'ad~. W c'rt· afraid ofseeming paranoid in fcding that a friend is trt·ating us with a detachment it lasted..\1aybt: someday, we can do it again." Somt: of we'rt· not usnl to.' We also do not want to bt· caught off thhe best friendships can he merely temporary; this is guard by a tornado that tears apart a friendship we havt­tht· way ofthe world. No rituals, after all, were signed in dqKmkd on. blood. "Heads up, and chccrio." 
l'ril'ndships come in an intlnitc variety. Some "I like you so much I want the best thing for you, l'Ven fril'mbhips, such as courtship andmarriagt·, art· very in­if the best thing is letting go." This is the Rod McKuen timate. Some fricnd~hips arc professional. and involve a approach. Then thcrt· art· tht: shades of Hemingway: no grt·at deal of~haring in trade sc.:crct:-.. If you arc wist·, you whimpering, no bdng ml·ssy, no being a bloody bort:; willnt·n·r embarrass a prok:-.sional li'it:nd by asking stilt' upper lip all the way home. "May there he no advkT about your pnsonal atlair:-.. "I really think you moaning of the bar whl·n I put out to sea." 
:-.hould dbcu:-.:-. that with M>mt·ont· who knows you real­()r we can try to maintain a relationship by ly wdl,_lal·k." Wht·n_lack tlmb himsdfbdng pushed manipulating our friend with guilt. "Notice me," we away with :-.uch long-di!>tanccd wortb, ht· knows he has shout in our words and actions. "Damn you. pay allen­rnadt· a :-.eriou:-. mistake in trying to borrow money at ton to me. You made me _what I am." I'm a fool, and I tht· oflkc. know it/ You arc cruel, I agree...I'm wild again/ 
Tlll'rc arc friendships that arc neither emotionally in­beguiled again/ a whimpering, simpering child again, timate nor professionally exuberant. Someone you AND IT'S ALL YOliR FAll LT. Among t<>lks who know, know has become likt· a part of yourself. You share this counts as tht: classic behavior ofa wimp or a nerd. 
thoughts, tirnt·, rnont·y, and whatever else is precious, One can, as the phrase goes, fight like hell. It may 
and the favors are reciprocated. One day both ofyou work. Marriages arc renewed, it is said, when matt'S find become sclf·consciously aware ofthe quality ofthe per­new or original ways to be tender, loving, careful, sonal exchange. Pleased and happy about what is generous, sexy, considerate. In relations where no happening, you acknowledge it to be very good, and promises wt·rc madt:, tht: mutual pain is inrcascd from you may l(mnally declare yourselves best friends. Such trying too hard. You may lind yourself playing before an sJX·cial closeness deserves a celebration ofthe com­indifferent audience. The next time you look, the house 
munion ofsouls, with drinks poured and fatted calves may be empty. slaughtered for the promoton of mirth. My own advice is: in the event ofa crisis, MAINTAIN 
Bccomng friends with someone -some precious GRACE UNDER PRESSURE. Keep calm, and do nothing. person you want to marry, or be engaged to, or have as a Your friend wants to diminish the intensity ofthe bond. buddy to drink with, is not the problem. It is honest fun Don't consent to it, and don't make it easy. Don't say: I to bt· a friend, and to have a friend. The pain comes for knew it was coming, or I saw the distress signals. Let you when the party is over, or at least, you think, the your friend, in breaking the bad news, do all the talking. party is ending. Someone you cherish has become It is more dignified simply to sit and stare, sweet, hut bored, disinterested, disenchanted. They don't say it; not treacly. Your friend may be taking advantage, and they won't admit it; they may not even realize they arc you have your pride to think of. You can make you 
in tht· process ofasking you to move over because they friend seem neurotic, if you know how to play your feel crowded by your company and they need the space cards. Your friend can make a m:urotic out ofyou, if you that you are using. Nevertheless, their graciousness demand a settlement in justice or mercy. begins to fail. Courtesies, which you never asked for, Learn an example from the silence ofGod, who never hut were grateful for anyway, are gradually withdrawn. answers in ways we can clearly identify. All the time His You st·nse an anger you never deserved. The anger love is there, spreading a carpet ofgrace beneath our hegins in a source outside of you. Your friend is think­feet. He never argues. He just keeps his arms around us. ing: I have tamed him/her as the Little Prince tamed the Let us keep our arms arond the ones who leave us. fox, and now I am burdened as though I were carrying Hugging, as a private act ofdevotion in the depth ofthe an albatross around my neck. How do you get rid ofan soul, never lost us a friend, and maybe it can help us albatross? Resentment begins with an unwanted bird. keep on. Grace under pressure is not only courage; it is 
"You have become responsible for me," the fox said also wisdom. No love is stronger than the love that to th~ Littk Prince. Som~tim~s w~ can r~mintl a friend chooses to be loyal to someone who values tht:' freedom that tht· frit:'ntl is responsible for us, but mort· often than ofhaving no loyalties. It is a counterpart to the shep­not. it's a cht·ap shot. Friendship is on uneasy ground herd loving the lost sht·cp most. After a while the shep­when wt· begin to insist that our friends fed sorry for us. herd and the sheep find their way home togt:thcr. or avoid hurting us. There is a lot of had weather in an Indiana winter. 
Friends can drift apart as mutually as they drifted to­Even on the most pleasant evenings, you should he gether. "Au revoir and no hard ti·dings. It was fun while warnt•d the weather may be had hdt>rc morning. 
For the good times 
T
he weekend column returns to TRIPPING THE LIGHT FANTASTIC The women's basketball team the features page today with an is in action this weekend: Saturday exciting variety ofcampus and non­the lady Irish face St Ambrose at 4:00 ND/SMC Council for the
<:ampus activities that arc sure to p.m. Sunday at 2:00p.m. they face 
Retarded is sponsoring a dance at 

tii41JI~tii~}i~t~~J1~f:~~~l~~~~(~~~~~~j&~~t~~~ii1i~i~~fiiiiili the Logan Center tonight from 7:30 the Michigan Wolverines. Both to 10:00 p.m. With music provided games are at the ACC. Come out to
Gregory Swiercz 
by a local disc jockey, the dance support Notre Dame's winning promises to be a truly festive occai­hoopstcrs.

Paul McGinn 
sion for volunteers and patients alike. Present and past volunteers as

weekend The men's basketbal squad
well as any interested persons are 
takes on Lefty Driessell and the
cordially invited to attend this free

thwart the doldrums of the two Maryland Terrapins at 8:00p.m. in
event

previously frigid weekends. Look for the ACC.Join in and be a part of the the latest in fun and entertainment Saturday there will be famed sixth man. every Friday in For the Good Times. music and dancing at Chautauqua 
LaFortune Ballroom with a live disc SPEAKING OUT jockey beginningat 8:30p.m. Cost is AT THE MOVIES S I per person for singles or bring a 
The Department ofEconomics date and get in two-for-one. Boogie Chapter Two -Tonight at 7, 9: I 5, 

is sponsoring a Developmental to what your heart yearns for during II :30 p.m., EngineeeringWorkshop entitledSystems Produc­those long winter nights when Auditorium. Marsha Mason stars in
tion, Economic Interests, in books and lamp oil seem your only 
her husband Neil Simon's semi­

Governmental Support in Southern friends. Get out and let loose! 
autobiographical account of theirAfrica, by Dr. Ron Libby, visiting meeting. All in the family and all for professor in Government and Inter­THE SPORTING LIFE one buck.

national Studies at 3:30p.m. today in 
The Fighting Irish skaters The Gospel according to St. Mat­
Room 900 of the Memorial Ubrary. 
battle Bowling Green tonight and thew 7:30p.m., AnnenbergThe lecture will undoubtedly cover tomorrow at 7:30p.m. at the ACC. Auditorium. A fine adaptation oftherelated topics ofthe racial and social Witness a stunning upset of the Synoptic, the movie is well worth systems of this most turbulent area CCHA leading and third-ranked Fal­the "extra" walk to the basement ofand may extend into controversial 
cons. Snitc. 
topics. 




Students take life more serious I y in the '80s 
S
tudents arc more serious about their work than they've been in years. That's what colleges arc reporting. Administrators say they even see a difference in attitude between this year's freshmen over the seniors. The freshmen are partying less, talking politics in bull sessions less and spending more time at the library than at the local pub drinking beer. 
"There clearly is a much greater respect for authority among freshmen," one professor was quoted as saying in The New York Times. 
Why is that? What has suddenly caused young people to become more conservative? This kind of a report from the collegt•s would warm the hearts of many Americans who were sick and tired of the revolutionaries of the 1960s and the early 1970s. 
I have mixed feelings about it. The protesters-it didn't much matter what they were protesting -irritated me, but ifI'd been their age, I probably 
Andy Rooneywould have been one ofthem. They were such well· meaning, bright, idealistic idiots. I knew a lot of them. 
When the protest-children ofthe 1960s were I 0, they began to be embarrassed with their parents because they said all their parents were interested in was money. When they wert· 12, they turned against their tead1crs be· cause they didn't want that narrow kind ofeducation. The following year they started smoking marijuana and listening to loud music that drowned out any thought that might enter their heads. By 15, these young people had bought the Playboy philosophy that the tradition­al rules about sex were confining, artificial and anti-social. 
That's the way it went, and by the time they were 20, a lot of tht· brightest young people were uneducated pot-smokers, sleeping around with a lot ofdifferent partners, growing their hair longer than was comfortable as a badge of their age and prott·sting tht· war in Vietnam. They ate naturally grown, organk food l(>r their ht·alth, hut didn't wash very often. Tht• conventions of their revolution were more formal than the conventions of the society against which tht·y were protesting. 
Why this happened and why many young people today would sup· port President Reagan and maybe even a war in Vietnam is a mystery to me. There's no sense in an adult trying to understand young people because they don't want to be understood. Parl'llls and educators who say they understand them arc kidding tht·msdvcs and older people who try to ht: ont: of them by joining tht·m and going where they go or dressing as tht·y drt·ss arc laughed at in private by the kids. It's a strange thing that cvcryont· old has been young and no one young has ever been old and yet the young seem to understand the old better than the old undt·rstand the young. 
It's too had that moderation, opcn-mindcdncss and the middle­ground ofany issue is so dull to us. It's only exciting ifwt·'rc radically this or radically that. The t•xdtcmcnt is out at the extreme ends ofa position. I'd like to see this new brt-cd oft'ollegc student study hard, drink less ht·cr and find out all they can about nudcar energy and devote some intelligent attention to bringing about a national policy in regard to it. With the exception ofa few protesters left over from I 0 years ago, young people don't cart: about issues like that one way or the other. 
Most ofthe activists ofthe 1960s arc gone now. they're approach­ing middle age and they're tired of their own rebellion. Thcy'vt· joined the rest ofsocit·ty and takt·n a job with the insurance com­pany. The only vestige of their rebellion is the solar panel on thdr roo( ifthey were lut·ky enough to he able to pull tht·msclvt·s togt·th­cr so they have a roo[ 
Isn't there som xthing acn·ptahle for kids in bctwt·cn radkalcon­scrvatism and radical liberalism? Doc~ the pendulumm of the philosophic clock have to swing to such t:Xtrt·mcs? 
Features becomes SHOWCASE Monday Watch for it!! 
Friday, january 22, 1982-page 10



Sports Brie/§ I 
Hy The Obsen•er and The Associated Press 

...leers 
continuedfrom page 16 
handle. 

"As well as Bowling Green has 
been playing, I have to say that we've 
been playing very good hockey as 
well. Our team has shown me a lot of 
character in the past month, so it 
should be just a super hockey 
series." 

The 12-10-2 Irish are also riding 
high due to an offensive resurgence, 
with the primary factor being the 
play of Dave Poulin. In his last I 0 
games, the senior has tallied 14 goals 
and 4 a">sists to place him in seventh 
place for the league scoring title. 

Poulin recieves much help from linemates Bill Rothstein and Jeff Logan, each ofwhom had impressive performances last week against the Wolverines. Logan's appearance on this line is due to the absence ofJeff Perry, who is sitting out a few weeks in order to recover from a sprained knee he received in the Chicago­Circle series two weeks ago. 
Jim Brown is coming off a record­
selling effort last Friday at Michigan 
in which he scored the first hat trick 
ever for a Notre Dame defenseman. 
John Schmidt and joe Bowie team 
up for Smith's second blueline tan­
dem, and the two have enjoyed 
productive sea'ions thus far with 41 
points between them in 23 games. 

· The cornerstone of the team remains to be Dave Laurion. Laurion, 3·0-1 in his last four starts, has lowered his g.a.a to a very respect­
able 3.70 sixth best in the league. 
I 
I 
I 
EverySaturdaynight, the Student Uni· on will sponsor a ski trip to Swiss Valley. Advance tickets can be purchased at the ticket office for 
$2. 50, or for $3.00 on the shuttle bus. The bus will depart from the Main Circle at 5 p.m. every Satur· day and return to campus at 11 p.m. All are Invited to come and join the fun. -The Observer 
Interhall volleyball signups for 
men and women end today. Team members must be from the same hall to participate in the elimina· tion. -The Observer 
Lacrosse practice begins Monday af. ternoon at 5:30. Attendance is mandatory for all team members. For details, call Rich O'Leary at 239·5108. -The Observer 
The ND Judo Club will hold its first practice of the season on Sunday, january 24, at 2 
p.m. at the Rock. All new members are invited to attend. For further information, call john Engeman at 8437. -The Observer 
APhysicalFitnessprogram that will meet four times a week will have its first meeting today. Anyone that is interested should be at the ACC auxiliary gym ar 4 p.m. -The Obseroer 

Irish sailor Bob Hannau, a freshman from Miami Beach, Fla, placed eighth out of 42 competitors in the Orange Bowl Laser regatta in Florida over spring Break. -The Observer 
The swimming teatnsare travell· 
ing to Illinois State tommorrow. Both the men's and women's teams want to avenge losses to Cleveland State and improve their 2·1 records. ­
The Observer 

The Saint Mary's swimming team defeated North Central 71-67, but lost to Illinois 
Benedictine 79-62 last Wednesday night. Chris 
Lenyo won the 50-yard fly, 50-yard freestyle, and 
100-yard freestyle for the Belles. Teammate Gail 
Casey won the 100-yard individual medley and the 
200-yard individual medley. -The Observer 
People who signed up for the Student Uni· on ski trip must attend a meeting Monday night in the room off of LaFortune ballroom at· 6:45 p.m. Anyone not there must abide by the decisions of the group. -The Observer 
The fencing teatn,fresh from a pair ofse·ason·opening wins over Ohio State ( 19·8)and Michigan State ( 23-4 ), journeys to Tri-State Col· lege for ·a I :30 p.m. triangular match with Wisconsin·Parkside and the host Trojans tommor: row.-The Observer 
The Observer w11! accept class1f1eds Monday through Fnday. 10 a.m to 4 30 p.m. However. clas­Sifleds to be run 1n the next issue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to msert1pn. All clas­Sifleds must be prepaid, either m person or through




Classifieds 

p:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~====~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::t:he::m:a:ll:.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
I 
USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought. Sanoy: Beware of Mok· Tar .... Signed: A Mike. IN RESPONSE TO YESTERDAY'S PER­sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. friend olthe m1ssing Roomie. A late congratulations on your new 
SONALS SPONSERED BY THE Tues-Sunday.12·6.1027E. Wayne(One position as soccer captain. So Sorry that 
MOOSE FOR UMOC COMMITTEE: blook south of Eddy-Jefferson intersec· Ween's Winter Dtlema· your name got left outlast week. I promise 
L--_N_o_TI_CE_s____.ll..___w_A_NT_E_o_l While you may feel that your cand•date 
tlon.) How deep does the snow have to be to get 1t will never happen agatn. Now wtll you 
Joe Musumeci snould be UMOC. we snowed tn" 2 ntghts in a row?!! come visit agatn? 
KNOW that our candidate. JOHN TheW's Mon1ca

Need 4 GA's (2 pr) lor MARQUETTE. Call MACOR. has many more ugly charac­FIRST JOBS. I'm wnting a now-to book. If 
Alx1384 teristics than Joe who. beneath h1s admrt· HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO Paul M. WHAT A WENCH' AMY JO TENBUSCH
you or a lnend has St.. Apt 7A. New York, ledly d1sgust•ng outwarq ap-pearance.
New York. 10025 

TICKETS 
Finamore. GIRLS OF NO and SMC HAVE IS 20!1 She will probably be found under a 
ALL WEEK-END TO STOP BY AND BE· number of bars around the NO campus 
YOUR USED FICTION: THE AMBAS· has a sweet puppy dog personality. BUT 
SADORS. LOST IN THE FUNHOUSE. A MACOR HAS BOTH THE AP. STOW YOUR LUSCIOUS BIRTHDAY thiS weekend. II you can lind her. wish her 
SEE THE SUPERBOWL ON OUR BIG 

MONTH OF SUNDAYS, and THE PEARANCE AND PERSONALITY OF A KISSES. BEST WISHES Paulie FROM a Happy B•rthday.'Happy 20th L•«le Sis·
SCREEN T.V ... FOOD AND REFRESH· MOVIEGOER. CALL .Paula at 4648 Crime will IM'Y r~r 11ck~t~ ~~ P~~~~~ ~~~: SKUNK THAT HAS BEEN HIT BY A anyt1me. cert in Chicago. Desperately needed! Call CAR. BU1 s1nce the purpose of th•s con­MENTS.. 

YOUR ROOMMATES. ter! Penguin at 284-5737 or Cat Woman at lest IS not only to determine the cockroach Need 2 GA's for North Carolina State. 284 4108 W.A.S.T.E. Prod personnel. 11 was certainly my of the campus. but also to raise money lor CALL6738 chanty. we hope to advance this cause
pleasure to meet all of you. JACK MESMER IS 20! WE LOVE HIM. Kandi 
wrth the follOWing proposal: IF YOUR I YOU SHOULD TOO. THE DYXZ 
I LOST/FOUND I 

I need two student Marquene B·ball tick· DESPERATELY NEED 2. MU GA's. CANDIDATE, JOE MUSUMECI IS ets. Call Kathy. 3848. PLEASE HELP!I CALL SUSAN 6354. VOTED UGUER THAN JOHN MACOR,
Hi Patty! It's only about 1:30 1n the morn­CHRISSIE· TRANSFER TO NO! ing and of course we're all st1ll here. Hul· 
WE WILL PAY FFOR THE COR­ley broken any beds? ·'Ry. John says he
LOST a sliver heart locket with my name 

1 OR 2 ROOMMATE$.GRAD OR LAW NEED MARQUETTE TIX-STUDENT OR RECTIVE SURGERY NECESSARY TO CONGRATULATIONS. KEVIN OMILIAK may see you soon· fully clothed of
engraved on it. If found please call Amalia TO SHARE HOUSE IN NICE AREA. GA. KATIE 8001 MAKE JOE OF SOCIALLY ACCEPT· CALL KEN AT 239-5694 OR 289·3945. ABLE APPEARANCE. IF OUR CAN­at3818. 

ON YOUR ENGAGEMENT TO YOUR course. 
HTH. IT'S ABOUT TIME I 
NEED 1·4 MARYLAND GA'S CALL JILL DIDATE WINS, YOU MUST PAY FOR Hulley. when are you go•ng to come VISit?
Found: Blue and green scarf D1scovered 

RIDE NEEDED to Champaign. Ill.. this 4802 OR SANDY 4879 (SMC) ATTEMPTING SIMILAR CORREC­Join Tim Neely for another venture into We have much to talk about so get your 
at Bendix Woods 1/14/82. Call John at 

weekend (Fri.. Jan. 22 • Sun. 24)S Call nONS ON MACOR (WHICH WOULD your rock ·n· roll past Sunday night at6 on lihle bod in gear. You also owe me a letter. 
1764 to'identify. 

Mike at 4540. Need2 Marquene GA's.Call Art 3110. HAVE TO INCLUDE PERSONALITY the Top 20 Time Tunnel on WSND·AM Ames and Julie send their best as does 
RECONSTRUCTION). IF YOU ACCEPT d;~;;;;;;~;. ~~ ~t~rt. r~k. g;~~p .·;;;~~i ;j;;~k. 64. the Queen's court gang. Miss you. 
LOST· one left hand brown calfskin leal· 

Desperately need 2 MARQUETTE GA'S. THIS CHALLENGE, THE FEAR OF callbacks on the evening of the 18th • if 
her glove In/around Washington Hall at 

.too. Call Mike O'Connor at 1851 after PLEASE HELPII CALL SUSAN 6354 LOSING BY EITHER OF OUR GROUPS 
midnite weekdays SOON! MUSICIANS: Looking for a drum· Uncle Ryan, WILL SnMULATE SUCH SUPPORT mer. vocalist and keyboard player to help Beware. I got a new manicure set lor
found . please contact DaVId Barber at 

THAT THIS WILL BE THE MOST Anyone dnv~ng to NO from WIS. lor Mar· NEED TWO STUDENT OR GA PROffiABLE UMOC CAMPAIGN 8109. Thanx! 
form a rock band lor 2nd semester. In· Chnstmas complete W1th those little sc•s· 
teres ted? Call DeMar 3410 or Keith 3507 sors. That is alii need and you have been 
FOUND: White sk1 cap wrth red and yel· quette wkend? II so. friend will share MARYLAND TICKETS. CALL AFTER 5. EVER. THIS MESSAGE WAS SPON· 
warned. By the way I got tickets printed

driving & expenses Call Mike 7987 BRIAN 288·5442 SERED BY THE JMAC (JOHN MACOR 10 lor the great w1ndow watch on the 29th.
low stripes between Farley and North 

ABUSE CLUB). THANK YOU. Barrasso We should make a bundle. 
Dining Hall. Tuesday. Claim at Adm. Bldg. 

NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO TOMMOR· WANTED: MARQUETTE STUDENT OR ROW A.M $$$ PLEASE GA'S. CALL MIKE OR VINCE, 272·7645. 
Lost and Found. ......................... 
CALL JOHN Glad to see that you're using the 3 W's Els1e ATTENTION: N.D. MALES ANNE COL·of Manizing. Keep up the good work!
x3333 Watch out lor those wild ltalien men! Now everyone. If you think you'll have a 
ANYONE KNOWING THE , LIGAN'S BODY-WARMING SERVICE IS 
Need many Marquene tix call ED at1068 WHICH ARE MISSING FROM SMC FOR INFO. 
WHEREABOUTS OF CASSETE TAPES NOw IN BUSINESS!!! CALL 1618 NOW 
Need ride to Cleveland, 0. Fnday. Jan. Kwicki good weekend, say YES. YES, YES! BEACH PARTY. PLEASE RETURN TO 
29. Can leave anyt1me. Call John, 3770. NEED 2 GEN. OR STUD. TIX FOR MAR· QUETTE GAME. CALL MATT. 1478 Just when you thought 11 was safe to A star with feet on it. Boy, that sure would
LEMANS DESK. VANDALIZE THE VANDALS! Get 
NEEDED an Imaginative and creative return to the basement of Lafortune. make a mce looking p1cture on some· 
Psyched lor IDAHOIIII (yes. they're still

DARBY'S PLACE RETURNSifllt is open body's wall. Right Draths? 
person to design Student Umon artwork.

LOST: SILVER AMETRON WATCH undefeated.) · 
Person's work will be seen weekly all over from m1dmght until three from Sunday to 
campus. Apply NOW at S.U. Office. FRIDAY nights. Thank goodness I'm back to MondayLOST SOMEWHERE NEAR MENS 
LOCKER ROOM AT THE ROCK. 

PERSONALS 
nights-thanks to those who convinced

ANYONE HAVING ANY INFORMATION WANTED: Roomate to share luxunous
YumYum, me.
OF THE WHEREABOUTS OF THIS upper floor of downtown res1dence. Must
Thanks forthe bite otthe Big Apple. Eve Monday nite Des•gn
WATH CAN CONTACT ME AT x3113. be able to sleep through ANYTHING.
I J 

NIGHTSOUNDS 105 FM 10:30 PM couldnt have done rt better. OXOX. ASKFORBOB. • 
FOR SALE includ•ng hour and hours of YELPS.
Nanki Poo What's the Buzz? You're still so sweet. 
GASPS. SQUEALS AND SENSUOUS

HELPHELPHELPHELPHELP! I need a I was a bitch to you 1n my defeat. 
LOST: 1 pair women's brown leather L-----------­MOANS. II Interested. call THE
ticket (or more) lor the Police concert 1n ATTENTION The second chaPter of the Still a swim and a dnnk you offer me.
gloves. probably left in 203 O'Shag. BONE MAN. 
Chicago! Will be willing to drive anyone to HMWHC is brave enough to announce I feel like a heal. bull ~an see
Please call Notre Dame 7848 or 7850 if PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLOTHING 
·•·············· ...........

Chicago lor the concert if they can get me their election of Jenny McGuire as Wrtch Concerning GA's I have alotto loose. 
you find them. UNIFORM JERSEYS.TEAM JACKETS THANKS TO THE GIRLS FROM LEWIS 
a ticket(s)l Willing to spend some of my olthe semester or Fall1981. Stand proud. It's my pride that I just must refuse. 
AND MUCH MORE. EVERY MAJOR FOR THE LARGEST HUMP EVERI!II 
hard-earned cash (Since Corby's burned JMI The rose, key. and day rema1n the same
LEAGUE FOOT· SIGNED. THE CAVANAUGH 
I 
out·· what else IS there to do anyway?) lor forme.
BALL.BASEBALL,HOCKEY AND SOC­HUMPSTERS.
a ticket! Call D•ane at 7933todayl Dear Ver Berkmoes; And I nope you'll accept my apology. 
CER TEAM AVAILABLE. EXACTLY THE p.s. FARLEY. CAN YOU TOP THAT? 
Help-My w1ndoes are frozen shut. What
SAME THINGS THAT THE PRO'S p.p.s. MATT T. FOR '82·'83 HUMPMAS.
L--_F_o_R_R_EN_T_/ LaGROTTA RETURNS! Five days should I do? oiiiCi. it;~ system
WEAR WHEN THEY PLAY GREAT • TERI
remain. signed ..............................................................
COLLECTORS ITEMS. EVEN HAVE Furn Efficiency $100 month also 1&2 Bed BENGAL'S SUPER BOWL JER· Painfully & frigidly trapped To all the •lhterates who w1sn to run me tor ATTENTION ALL .... TRUE... FOOTBALL
L'OGA'N.. ceNTE·R·'VOLU'NT"EEAS~··A~~ 
UMOC. why don't you all be men enough starts tomorrow 9:QO-l1 :30 am. Ri<:hard. Are you serving warm beer this 
Apts Close to N.D.& town call25585 SEYS. FOR MORE INFO CALL TIM 1609 FANS· THE ONLY PLACE TO BE THIS 
to tell me to my face so that 1 could 

SUNDAY IS AT THE K of C FOR RENT·. Individual or group. Com· STEREO EQUIP. POST X·MAS SPE· SMOKER .... STARTS AT 2 .... BE THEA!
TONIGHT. the dance you've been wait•ng weekend? We /Ieard that you were. chchange 1ts color from wMe to blood red. 
for at the Logan Center 7:30-10:00 pm. All 2of4
fortable house close to campus. bus $500 CIALS;BOSE 301'S $225 MANY ... . . .. -~·· ............ ····· .. .
volunteers welcome! 
per semester plus share ol U1ilities. Call MORE.PROF CONSULTATION AND CATHIE SCHULTZ· 
Kandis Kay. Hope your visit to NO has H~~-J~.R~I~;~~:·~~~-L~SHI~~~-:r~·~.
28&-3942 after 5:30pm FREE INSTALLATION Chnstmas IS past. but we·d still hke some SERVICE.STUDENT RUN WITH STU· hope you have a wonderful 19th b•rthdayl ol your GINGERBREAD. 
EL ED MAJORS ARE THE BEST!!! been an enlightening.lun and valuable ex­perience. Thanks tor putting up with the 
Love. 1st Hoor B·P. nished apt.. super locale. NAME YOUR 8232,8213.8228 Dear Kat. Best wishes from your 4th floor prod personnel on Wednesday night! ...................................... Szan _ 
ROOMMATE WANTED· completely fur· DENT PRICES! CALL JB Erme and Chucl< 
corrupting comrades. You HAVE come a
RENT· Dave 283-1169 ND/SMC WOMEN -Fmd a stud at the WINDSURFER WINDSURFER 
long way baby. from weekends 1n L.A.. to 
flushed cheeks from Midon. II you keep Monica: You may not have grapefrurt but 
..... .. .... ... ...... ............. ...... .. ................ FOR SALE Two studded snow ttres. Will Grace Study Lounge bash Fnday mght. WINDSURFER WINDSURFER 
Festivities start In the 1Oth and 11th Hoor up the good. work you can score worse your barnes are pretty nice. Love always, 
fit most compact cars. $25.00 each. For WINDSURFER WINDSURFER 
NEEDED: One roommate. House near more info call A~dy at x8448 study lounges at 8:30. and on lower floors WINDSUR WINDSUFER OH WELL 
campus. bars. Can 233·2969. than Indecent'. Love. D.M.J.K. Uncle Ryan. later. BE THERE !II WINDSURFER II 
The Observer -Sports Friday,January 22, 1982 -page..11 
The kid: The man to beat  
KANSAS CITY -He looked out of place in the lobby of the exclusive hvtcl. In his jeans, tennis shoes and Rolling Stones 1981 Tour T-shirt, he looked like the kind ofperson the doorman would be in a hurry to throw out -some kid off the street. At 22, he's not much more than a kid. But after four years on the pro tennis circuit, "Hell, no," he says. John McEnroe has become the man to beat. Then why the sudden change? Why hasn't With his Wimbledon and U.S. Open wins over McEnroe taken on the responsibility ofcleaning up Bjorn Borg, McEnroe established himself as one of his act before now? the greatest players, if not the most well-liked, in the game's history. But as his ability won h t im "I never felt ready to before," he explains. "But matches. his temper lost him fans. recently I've started to feel it might be just that -Now, it seems, McEnroe has begun to be con­my responsibility. I care about the game. Deepcerned about his image, that of the game, and his down I think the majority ofthe players feel a sense responsibility to tennis as a whole. ofresponsibility to the game." 1 / don't wantpeople asking me when I'm 30 why I wasso madall the time instead ofwhat they should be asking me.'  
Editor  Skip  Desjardin,  ack­ now/edged his responsibility the game oftennis. ( APPhoto)  to  "I don't want people asking me when I'm 30 why l was so mad all the time mstead of what they should be asking me," he says ofhis celebrated an­tics. That's one ofthe reasons he was in the midst ofa five-city tour of the Midwest when our paths crossed here Wednesday. The series of exhibition matches against Guillermo Vilas, the world's sixth­ranked pro, was an effort to get out and meet the fans. McEnroe was on his best behavior, whether at autograph sessions or in hotel lobby bars. "To get through the rest of my career, I'm going to have to change," he admits. "I just have to. "I don't know ifI'll be able to do it-to let things slide," he says honestly. "But that's the kind of at­titude I'm going to have to take more often if I'm going to get people off my back. "I don't want people to look back and say I was bad for the game." Does he enjoy the 'Superbrat' image?  OfficiatinR is still his biggest gripe. "There's no doubt it's gotten worse since became a pro four years ago," he says. He thinks maybe umpires and line judges should be paid more, to insure that competent officials have some incentive to work. But there are other problems with pro tennis as well, he says. "The game is becoming so spread out ­so thin. Everybody's playing in a different place. While Borg's in Europe, Lendl's in Australia, I'm here. You can't tell which tournaments are the important ones anymore. The players can't, so I know the public can't. "Tournaments should always be more important than the players involved." That statement, coming from a man whose court presence demands that he be the center of atten­tion, could be the tip-off. Maybe, just maybc,John McEnroe is growing up.  




----Sportsboard---­
W L T GF OA Pta
--··-·-·~~-·-----
Lalit s.turday'a Reaulta 

Edmonton 28 12 9 267 197 65NOTRE DAME 2. Mochogan 2 Calgary 16 20 11 197 215 47
HOCKEY 
Bowling Green 4, Ferns State 2 Vancover 15 23 10 164 176 40 Mochigan Tech 6, Nonhern Mochigan 4 Los Angeles 13 26 7 162 223 33Lake Superoor 4, Moamo 1 Colorado 10 31 7 133 217 27 Ohoo State 6, Western Moehogan 3 Norrie DlvlalonCENTRAL COLLEGIATE Mochogan State 7, Chocago Corcle 2 

HOCKEY ASSOCIATION Minnesota 16 14 14 167 156 50 w L T OF GA Pet St. Louos 22 21 4 182 192 48 Bowlong Green 13 4 1 104 59 .750 Wonnepeg 17 21 10 182 209 44 Chicago 17 20 9 202 207 43 Moehogan Tech 1t 6 1 Toronto 15 21 12 201 213 42 
Mochogan State 12 5 1 70 48 .694 In this year's NHL playoff format, the top tour teams 

82 80 639 In each division make the playoffs, regardless of Mochogan 9 5 4 55 50 611 overall league standmg. Detroot 14 26 8 163 202 36 Northern Mochogan 10 8 0 71 72 .556 Ferns State 9 7 2 78 77 .556 PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE 
Yallterday'a Raaulta NotraDame 7 9 2 78 n .444 Adame Dlvlalon 
Boston 4. Toronto 2 

Lake Superoor State 6 10 2 64 68 389 W L T GF GA Pta. Calgary 7. Detroot4 N.Y. Islanders 6, Ponsburgh 1 
Western Mochogan 5 12 71 62 306 Buffalo 27 11 9 191 140 63 M1am1 4 11 Boston Montreal 4, Philadelphoa 2 
50 69 .281 27 14 6 196 165 60 62 250 23 11 12 208 136 58
Ohoo State 4 13 1 77 Montreal Monnesota 3, Los Angeles 1 
Note Ill ·Chocago Cor not oncluded on standongs anc Quebec 25 17 6 219 191 56 not eligoble lor league title. but games agaonst I-CC Hartford 11 24 10 151 200 32 hgure m league stcmd~ngs Patrick Dlvlalon 
See 

Pholadelphoa 28 16 2 166 167 58 
L8111 Friday'a Reaulta N. Y Islanders 26 13 6 191 151 58 NOTRE DAME 9. Mochogan 4 N Y Rangers 21 19 6 167 178 48 Bowling Green 10. Ferns State 4 Pottsburgh 20 20 7 179 187 47 
Sportsboard
Moehogan Tech 6. Northern Mochogan 2 Washongton 12 27 7 168 194 31 Lake Superour 2. Moamo2 (OT) Ohoo State 5. Western Mochogan 2 CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE page 14 Mochogan State 8 Chocago Corcle 1 Smythe Dvlalon 

SpecialGuest 
TOLL FREE 
800-248-5708 
24-hour recorded messages keep you up-to-date on Michigan snow conditions. 
800-248-5700 
Our travel specialists will give you all 
you need to know about all there is to ski 
and do in Michigan. 
Call between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. E.S.T.. 
Monday through Friday. (J 
MICHIGAN TRAVEL BUREAU 

Saturday, Feb. 6, 1982 8 PM NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
TICKETS ON SALE NOW··· $10/$9. Reserved at A.C.C. Box Office, in South Bend at Robertson's, St. Joseph's Bank & 1st Source8~r.m Bank--main offices only, in Elkhart at Robertson's,
f:ATING BEFORE 

CONCERT NOT Elkhart Truth & Suspended Chord, in Ft. Wayne
RECOMMF.NDED

at Slatewood Records. 
' 
j 
I 
~ 
l 


The Observer-Sports 
Friday,]anuary 22, 1982-page 12 
17and 1? 



Phelps thanks all for support 
By DAVE DZIEDZIC the team's side. After Phelps was Idaho (Notre Dame's Monday-night Sports Writer called for two technical fouls, the oponnent). "If Idaho defeats Mon­students went wild. The Irish tana and Montana State, then the 
As he prepared his team for the proceeded to go on a scoring spree Vandals will be 17-0 when they upcoming contest against Maryland and eventually whip the Wildcats, come here," he says. "That will (tomorrow at 8 p.m. at the ACC), 59-45. definitely be the student's game. The Digger Phelps took time out to The crowd was once again a factor chant will be' 17 and 1 '." express his thanks to the student Tuesday night as the Irish nearly up­Both Lefty Smith's hockey team body for their recent support. "The set 12th-ranked Villanova. "Even and Mary DiStanislao's women's bas­crowd has been super," Phelps said. though we lost, it was a good ketball team are hosting big games "I think the students realize that we feeling," Phelps said. "The fans this weekend, and Phelps em­need them a lot." helped us out again." phasizes the necessity of student 
Considering Notre Dame's slug­Phelps claims the student support support for these teams as well. gish start, the student body has is definitely necessary. "College "Lefty has been working toward a definitely supported the team well. games are very demanding on the weekend like this for a long time," "Their support was very evident at players and coaches. We need Phelps said, referring to Notre the Northern Illinois game before whatever home-court edge we can Dame's two-game series against Christmas vacation," Phelps said. get." third-ranked Bowling Green. "It "They knew we were down and they Has the students' support had an would be great to see all of the stu­tried to help us up." effect on this year's squad? "It most dents out there to support them. 
The students didn't forget about certainly has," Phelps responds. "And Mary and her team deserve the Irish over vacation, either. "While we've been at home the past support as well," he continues. Despite the horrible weather condi­week, we've improved 90 percent. "They've done an excellent job this tions, almost all of the students Tl:;tat extra 10 percent of improve­season." 
showed up at the ACC for the David­ment may come soon. We need a tie After being reminded that three
Scrappy Theresa Mullins con-Irish have a tough battle next 

son game last Saturday. ballgame with the ball at the end of Notre Dame graduates will be
tributed six points and two Saturday when they face St. 

When the Irish trailed 15-5 in the the game. When that time comes, playing in this Sunday's Super Bowl,
rebounds last night, as the Irish Ambrose here at the ACC. (Photo 

first half, the students again rallied to the students will be a big part ofit." Phelps said, "This should be a very
destroyed the Cavaliers 84-27. The by Cheryl Ertelt) 
Besides hoping for a Notre Dame exciting weekend here on campus. victory over Maryland, Phelps s:.v~ "I just wish we could play /812 the students should be rooting for for them."
'5II 
...Terps 
continuedfrom page 16 sport." 
IRISH ITEMS -Te,morrow's con­Phelps. "We're still playing a couple test is slated for 8 p.m., not I :30, as of people out of position because of listed on the tickets. . ..Maryland is our lack ofpersonnel. We have to hit the best free-throw shooting team in the boards hard in every contest." the ACC, shooting 75 percent from 
Driesell is currently ranked the line. . ..The Irish, on the other





ONLy $9 • ~PI~o•togeAndHondling) 
second in winning percntage among hand, are shooting only 62 percent college basketball coaches. Phelps from the line. . ..Notre Dame is 0-5 enjoys coaching against him. "It's al­in games decided by five ·points or

"5" High Fidelity C-90/C-60 Minute Cassettes That Are 
ways a challenge," he says. "Lefty is less. . _.More woes: Junior walk-on 
one of the most colorful guys in col­Karl Love injured an ankle in yester­lege basketball. He's great for the day's practice. 

Comparable To Those That Sell For AS MUCH AS s495 
EACH OR MORE At Your Favorite Record Stores Or Discount Houses! • • • Wotnen
HOW CAN WE DO THIS? WHY SHOULD I EVEN TRY 
By being a direct distributor we 
Sharon Petro. 

MAGNAFINE? HERE'S WHY!! 
continuedfrom page 16
eliminate needless ~verheadJ middlemen & 
The Queen Bees of Coach Ken
*** 

Magnafine II uses only THE HIGHEST
other variables that are passed DIRECTLy 
Buckles were 12-2 heading into last

QUALITY FERRIC OXIDE agfa tape 
do a lot ofthings on offense because
on to you the consumer. We can offer you 
night's contest against Muscatine 

these outstanding tapes DIRECT from the with a myler base that is uncon­
she was holding the ballhigh and not Community College. St. Ambrose bringing it down where smaller

manufacturer at WHOLESALE PRICES! ! ! ! " ditionally guaranteed I 
will play at St. joseph's ofRenssel t aer, 
*** Each tape is housed in a 5 screw 
people can get at-it. She shot very Ind. tonight before heading to South well."

WHAT IF I AM NOT SAT~SFIED? data pock shell! 
Bend.

*** Magnofine II uses only POL YOLEFIN 
"From the standpoint of personal Michigan's Wolverines stand at 9­
30 day MONEY BACK guaraoltee. Com­

pare our quality & price. If not completely SLIP SHEETS to insure smooth tape 
goals, though, we didn't do every­4 heading into tonight's game with 

thing we should have," she added. Purdue. That, by the way, will be fund. For any tape that foils to perform we *** EACH TAPE IS EXTREMELY WELL 
satisfied simply return cassettes for a full re­transfer from hub to hub! 
"We turned the ball over far too Michigan's first competition in near­many times ( 15, compared to Val­ly two weeks.

will replace it 2 -1-THAT'S OUR GUARANTEE! LUBRICATED, guaranteeing long. de­
paraiso's 30), and it wasn't on ac­The Wolves ofCoach Gloria Soluk 

pendable service! 
count of their defense. Steals and have played three opponents who

WILL I HAVE TO WAIT 2 MONTHS *** Each Mognofine tope comes com­
tipped balls can sometimes be con­the Irish will meet later this season.

plete w!th stylish hardshell case &
FOR MY TAPES?ABSOLUTELY NOT! 
sidered forced errors, but traveling Michigan dropped a 93-65 decision

ATTRACTIVE, spacious labels for ALL orders are shipped UPS within 24 
isn't a forced error, and probably at Cincinnati, and won a pair of

EASY labeling & quick reference! 
halfofour turnovers were travels." home tilts, 88-72 over DePaul, and
hours. You will receive your tapes within *** Each cassette tape is INDIVIDUALLY 

Last night's win was Notre Dame's 78-76 over Michigan State. 
2 weeks after mailing. Personal checks 

INSPECTED & then bulk erased for 
sixth straight, and 1Oth in 13 outings Sunday's game will be the fourth

subject to clearing. optimum performance! 
this season. It was also the first ol meeting between the Irish and Wol­Guarantee Is Valid 
three games that the Irish will play in verines. Michigan has dominated the
Due To Faulty Ports And, Or 
a four day span. series, winning all three ga'?es. The

BONUS 
Tomorrow at 4 p.m., the Queen closest Notre Dame ever came to
Construction Only. 
Phose Enterprises 
Bees ofSt. Ambrose College will pay beating Michigan club two
a was

With Any Purchase Of 2 Or More Sets Of MAGNAFINE II
Accepts Responsibility 
a visit to the ACC. Michigan will be seasons ago, when they forced them

Cassettes, You Will Receive ABSOLUTELY FREE One Same length
For All Warranties, 
here as well for a 2 p.m. start on Sun­into overtime, before losing 66-60.
Replacement 

Tape As Our Complimentary Gift! 
day.
Or Otherwise.

.,.,_,_,..:.................~ ___________________________,_,_,-i IRISH ITEMS -Ayear ago, it took 
The Irish have been successful in Notre Dame literally an entire their only two starts against the season to reach the I 0-victory 

Yes, I want in on this LIMITED INTRODUCTORY OFFER. 
Queen Bees. Last year, DiStanislao's plateau. Win No. 10 came just twoPlease rush me set(s) of 5 C-90 /C-60___ club handed St. Ambroseone of its games from the conclusion of the 
nine losses, 56-49 at the ACC.

cassettes at 5969 per set. I understand that if I am not satisfied, I '80-81 season. With 13 regular­
Incidentally, that win, on Feb. 9, season games remaining in this cam­may return them within 30 days for a full refund. was the 99th of DiStanislao's career, 
paign, Notre Dame has a chance to and the last Mary D's team would post it's second-ever 20-win

NAME _______________________
I AMOUNT ORDERED $ gather in February 1981. Seven season ... Prior to Sunday's Notre I ADDRESS straight losses followed before the Dame-Michigan clash, a pair of
IND. RESIDENTS ADD 
Irish coach finally got win number talented high school teams from the

I .04% SALES TAX$ CITY STATE __ 
100, in the opening round of the Baltimore area will clash in the ACC. 

$ 1•75 ZIP Northern Lights Tournament in Towson ( Md.) Catholic, 21-1, will
I POSTAGE & HANDLING PLEASE PRINT 
Anchorage, Alaska. take on Martin Spalding High School 

1 TOTAl $ MAKE CHECKS & MONEY ORDERS 
This time around, Notre Dame of Baltimore in a game that will 

1 
PAYABLE TO: finds itself in the midst ofa six game begin at noon. Towson is the two­I _ . Please send me your discount catalog listing PHASE ENTERPRISES winning streak, the second longest time defending champion ofthe Bal­I video tope prices. other cassettes. and much more. in the school's history. A win over St. timore Catholic League. Spalding is I I hove enclosed $1.00 · P.0. BOX 1364 DEPT• , F 
Ambrose will tie the record set by currently ranked I Oth in the state byI -FREE WITH ORDER-South Bend, IN 46628 the 1978-79 squad coached by the Baltimore metro newspapers. 

L---------------------------------------~ 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer -Sports friday, January 22, 1982 --page 13 
Despite in juries 

Irish grapplers split m.atch 


By BRIAN REIMER 
Sports Writer 
Prior to last night's triangular meet, members of the Notre Dame wrestling team had to be ap­prehensive about facing Bowling Green. The Irish were severely plagued by injuries, specifically a leg fracture to 167-pounder Phil Baty. The Falcons, on the other hand, had a healthy starting line-up. Boosted by three pins, the Mid-American Conference power Falcons handed the Irish a 43-2 shellacking. Only a 43-I 2 win over an undermanned Defiance squad salvaged the evening for Notre Dame. 
In the words of Coach Joseph Bruno, "Bowling Green has some excellent leg wrestlers on their t t cam. With our injuries, we've had a heck of a time just trying to fill the. weight das~es. We've lost starters at 167 and 177-pounds. Even though our freshmen have done a good job 111ling in, many ofthem an· n·ally too light for the weight classes they're 
wrestling at." 
freshmen havt· not been able to fill the empty slot at I I !:1-lbs, where the Irish have had to forfeit six points m all their recent dual meets. Last night, 126-poundcr Joe Andrcetti lost a narrow 4-3 decision to Howling Green's Mike Lehman. 
Against  Defiance,  Joe  scored  six  
team  points  the  easy  way  - he  
received a forfeit.  

Don Heintzelman, a 134-pounder, suffered a pin from the Falcon's Hob Colatruglio, but also received a for-
NC State upset 
by Deacons 
Chapel Hill, N.C. ( AP) -Mike 

Helms' jumper from the top of the 
key with 2: I 1 left and Anthony Teac­
hey's four free throws in the final 30 
seconds kd Wake Forest to a 55-4!:1 
upset over top-ranked and previous­
ly unbeaten North Carolina in Atlan­
tic Coast Conference basketball last 
night. 
The victory "was Wake Forest's 

second consecutive on the Tar 
Heels' homecourt and snapped 
North Carolina's winning streak at 
13. 
Wake Forest found itselfdown 22­9 midway through the first half thanks to James Worthy's 13-point performance. But the Demon Deacons collapsed on Worthy and shut him down for the remainder of the period. 
North Carolina wa~ also ham­paed by the absence of sophomort· center Sam Perkins, who came down with an intestinal virus at the pregame meal. 
... Meyers 

continuedfrom page I6 
After a one-year stint with North ·fexas State (under current Iowa Coat·h Hayden Fry), Selmer was tabbed oflensive coordinator for Kansa.'i State bd(>n· accepting last ~ea.'ion's position with the VarKouver-hased Lions. 
The Notre Damt· assistant won 

monograms a.o; a tat·kk for both Min­
nesota and Wyoming. 
Bt·sides hiring Sdmer, another stall change involvt·s Assistant Coach Brian Boulac. Faust will repont·dly move him from his ddensivt· line post, and give Boulac a new assignment tutoring Irish receivers. 
Boulat:, who compkted his 12th sea.o;on at Notre Dame this past fall, worked with tht· otknsive line every year prior to 198 I. 
feit against Defiance. Pete Agostino had the same fate, as he was pinned by Bowling Green's Greg Westoven and won by default against Defiance. Doug Skinner fell to Bowling 
Green's Mike Gerken in the 1 pound weight class, 3-0, but won a superior decision over Defiance's Eris Christman, 13·5. 
Brian Erard had the team's best outing last night. After poundingjer­ry Bowser of Defiance, I 5-8, Brian scored Notre Dame's only points against the Falcons as he fought Dave Cozad to a 2-2 tie in the I 58­pound division. Karl Dahlhauser, at 
16 7 pounds, was not so fortunate. He fell to Bowling Green's Milo Sanda, I 1-3, and was pinned by Defiance's Richard Rose at the I :24 mark of the first period. 
Jim ()'Laughlin split his two matches, losing 12-5 to the Falcoln's Doug Randolf and pinning Mel Cruse of Defiance at 177-lbs. 190­pounder Shawn Moloney lost to 

Bowling Green's Terry Wiseman, 
13·5, but won his other match by 
forfeit. Larry Kissner filled the 
previously vacant heavyweight slot. Even though he only lasted 33 seconds against Bowling Green'sjeff Powers, he scored six points at heavyweight via forfeit against Defiance. 
Injuries have to affect a team's performance, even in an individual sport like wrestling. Inexperienced wrestlers have to meet veterans from other squads, and face final scores like 43-2. The triangular split leaves Notre Dame with a record of 7-2. This weekend, the Irish travel to Southwestern Michigan for the Chris Taylor Memorial Tournament, held in honor of the late American Olympic heavyweight medalist. 
Next week, the home schedule 
resumes with a triangular meet 
against Eastern Michigan and 
DePauw at the ACC pit Tuesday at 7 
p.m. 
Bowling Green in a triangular meet at the ACC pit last night. (Photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 

Succeed 






inbusiness. 
Hit's a lot easier with a Texas Instruments calculator designed to solve business problems." 
Touch a few ~pecial key~ on the~e Texa~ In~trument~ calculator~. th(' TI Bu~ine~~ Analyst-II'"and The MBA": and length~­time-value-uf-mone~· problem:-; :-;uddenl~· aren't length~· anymon'.You can automati­cally calculate profit maq..,rins, foreca~t 
~ale:-; and ea111ing:-; and })('li'orm :-;tati:-;tie:-;. 
And problL'nb \rith J'L'}lPtitin: eal<:ulation:-; an' a pieee of cake fur tlw :\I BA. bl'tau:-;(' it':-; JH'ogTammabk'. 
The~e ealculatob; mean bu:-;int>~~. and \\'hat they give you i:-; time-timt' to gTa:-;p WHierlying bu~ine~~ concept:-;, \vhile the~· handlP th(> num­ber crunching. To make it L'Ven ea:-;ipr, each ealculator comp:-; \\'ith a book \\Titten PSp(•eiall~· for it. \\·hich :-;hmv:-; you hm\· to mak(> usP of thL' ealeulator':-; full potential. 
The Bu:-;ine:-;:-; Analy:-;t-II and MBA bu:-;inP~:-; eakulator:-; fr< lll1 Texa:-; In~t~·~ment~.l\,·o J---. .• 
1 

\\·m-:-; to run a ~m·ep~~ful hu~uw~~ ma-\:__7~.~· jm·: ,,-ithout running your~<'lf l'agg-Pd. -{:-:: 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
1"-<< ORI'OHAII L> 
TI Business Analyst-11 
.....ww~.....<\.....1 l...l,~l;;.ll...>l...... 
W"""'WWI.­
WWW\.....8 
wuuw.au 
wuuua 
~..::iUUUQ 
L:...JUiiiflllioaQ 

~ 
~ 
'  
I  'The Observer ­Sports  Friday,January 22, 1982----=: page 14  
~  
I t  49'ers not sure of  
Bengal game plan  
PONTIAC, Mich. (AP) -There first time and there were people at­ 
seems to be a difference of opinion ter the game thought that maybe  
on the San Francisco 49ers as to how Cincinnati could have used him  
the Cincinnati Bengals will attack more," said Walsh.  
them in Super Bowl XVI. "He ripped through us two or  
Coach Bill Walsh said Thursday three times. The only break we had  
that bruising fullback Pete johnson was that we were ahead far enough  
could be the Bengals' primary that they probably could not have  
weapon Sunday in the Silverdome. won the game by just giving the ball  
All-Pro rookie cornerback Ronnie to him.  
Lott, on the other hand, feels that "But my suspicion is that he'll be  
-quarterback Ken Anderson, the Na-their primary weapon."  
tiona! Football League's Most Most people think the Bengals  
Valuable Player, will be Cincinnati's will rely more on Anderson's arm  
main man. than on johnson's feet. It's possible  
"We're still reviewing certain that Walsh is simply trying to psyche  
defensive things we feel we have to the Bengals like he did last time,  
do to stop johnson, who I think when he suggested he might use his  
could very well be the main weapon second stringers against them and  
for Cininnati and who could carry went with starters instead.  
the ball upwards of30 times," Walsh Lott, for one, expects an aerial  
said. fireworks display from Anderson.  
johnson, a 6-foot, 250-pound tank Walsh's concern about Anderson  
of a man, gained 86 yards on I 2 is obvious from his comments early  
carries when the 49ers defeated the in the week when he called the Ben­ 
Bengals 21-3 Dec. 6 in Cincinnati_ gals' quarterback "the greatest  Co-Captain Dave Poulin will lead the Irish this  in the country, Bowling Green. (Photo by john  
"He ran effectively against us the player in football."  weekend against the number-three ranked team  Macor)  
Milwaukee 26 13 .667


----Sportsboard---­
continuedfrom page 11 
Central Dlvlalon 
-·-~·------···,---·-Schaack 0 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 

.:8 ·4 SXFr·:r~' #: J f ;;::,,:?? Petersen o 1-3 o-o o o 2 Atlanta 18 19 .486 7 
~ , • ., . ·~ ..Mi r..~::;:;!M:N Kalas o 2-7 0-0 2 2 4 


Indiana 18 22 450 8.5 Wiesen 0 1-6 2-4 5 4 4 Detroit 17 24 .424 10 :hicago 16 23 .410 10
Yesterday's Results Powell 0 0-1 0-0 3 1 0 

:leveland 7 31 .184 18.5
Notre Dame 84, Valparaiso 27 Rooker 0 2-3 0-0 6 3 4 Notre Dame (84) Lindquist 0 1-3 0-0 0 o 2 
Weetem Con•rence 
M FG-A FT-A R F p Sebasty 0 1-4 0-2 6 2 2 

Mld-et Dlvlalon 0 3-9 0-0 6 T1deswell 0 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 w L Pet. GB
Schueth 2 Hensley 

0 0-2 0-0 2 0 0 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 3an Anton1o 25 13 .658 Jenver 21 19 .525 4.5
0 12-15 0-0 16 1 24 0 12-48 3-8 24 12 27 0 2-5 0-0 2 3 FG Pet. • .250. FT Pet -.375. Team
Matvey 

Houston 18 21 .462 7 
Mullins 4 Kansas City 14 26 .350 12

o 6-9 1-1 5 1 13 rebounds-25. Turnovers-30. Assists-5Kaiser 

Utah 13 25 .342 12
o 5-10 0-0 3 o 10 (Five w1th 1). Technicals-None.

Dougherty Dallas 11 28 282 14.5
0 0-3 0-0 1 3 Halftime-Notre Dame 45, Valparaiso 15.

Neville 0 Peclflc Dlvlelon Bates 
Los Angeles 29 11 .725
0 7-10 1-2 9 0 15 ------------­

Seattle 26 12 .684 1.5 Phoenix 23 14 .622 4.5
Conboy 0 0-1 2-2 2 2 2 
Klauke 0 3-6 2-2 1 0 8 

Golden State 21 17 .553 6.5 
Mongali 0 1-3 0-0 0 1 2 MBA 

Portland 21 17 .553 6.5 0 39-73 6-7 43 13 84 Eutem Con..rence 
San Diego 12 28 .294 16 FG Pet .534. FT Pr.t. -.857 Team 
Atlentlc DIYielon W L Pet. GB

rebounds -50. Turnovers -15. Assists -16 Boston Yeeterdey'e Aeeulle 
30 9 .769 
New Vorl< 104, Atlanta 101
(Conboy 6). Techmcals-. Pholadelphoa 
27 12 .692 3 San Antonio 123. Utah 1 04 
Valparaiso (27) Washongton 19 19 .500 10.5 
Dallas 110, Kansas C1ty 94M FG-A FT-A R F P NewYor« 19 21 .475 11.5 
Detroot 120, San Diego 110 
Aadivam 0 4-20 1-2 2 0 9 New Jersey 16 22 421 13.5 
Technical Majors: 


U.S. Steelinvites you 
to checkouta career
•


tnmanagement. 
D 
You're a self-starter. U.S. Steel is a company on the move, and we're looking for people with the initiative to tackle major projects and push them through to completion. 
D 
You're a fast thinker. While the clock ticks. you may have to make decisions involving the future of thousands of U.S. Steel people-and the in­vestment of millions of dollars. 
D 
You're a team player. At a dynamic place like U.S. Steel. guiding and 
motivating others is likely to be an important part of your career in management 
Today U.S. Steel is a whole lot more Money is good. Fringe benefits are than the nation's largest steelmaker. liberal. And you can take advantage of 
We're in chemicals. with annual a variety of continuing personal-devel­sales of over $1 billion. We're in resource opment programs-including tuition development. ready to fill industry's refund. growing needs for coal. iron ore. ura­Visit your placemenloffrce and nium and other vital materials. We build check out the openings our representa­complex structures all over the country. tive plans to discuss. But don't worry if We offer engineering services all over what interests you most happens not the world. And that's far from all. to be on the list. Just write us with 
Join us, and you're immediately a your qualifications: Dave Bates, College full-fledged member of our manage­Relations, U.S. Steel. 600 Grant St., ment team. Your opportunity for Pittsburgh, PA 15230. An equal advancement is as bright as you are. opportunity employer. 

Meet the U.S. Steel representative 

~ United States Steel 
on campus: 
Fri., Feb. 19 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~... 

Harriers ready for anotherclose race 
ByEARLRIX in the 60-yard dash, and the running !.ports Writer of Mitch Van Eyken, Jacques Eady and Bernie Addell in the 600-yard 
The last two Notre Dame-Iowa run. track meets have been decided by a "The key to the meet is to beat single point in the last event. This them where they are strong -in the year's Irish dual-meet opener versus sprints," says Irish Sprint Coach Ed the Hawkeyes promises to be anoth­Kelly. "We also need some key per­

er close battle. formances in field events. Last year the Hawkeyes beat the "I think our sprint crew is 
Irish at the wire by winning the mile definitely improved. We brought in relay by less than one-tenth of a a great sprinter in Mitch Van Eyken. second. Bernie Adell and Phil Gilmore have 
Two years ago Ahmad Kazini also helped us," adds Piane. "Mitch triple jumped the Irish to victory in could win the 300 and so could the final event. jacques. Ifwe go one-two in the 300, "Iowa says that they are keying for it will shock the hell out of them," 
three meets this year: the dual meet says Piane. Last year the Hawkeyes with Notre Dame, the Cornhusker went one-two in both the 300 and Invitational and the Big Ten Cham­600-yard events. pionships," says Irish Head Coach Kelly says that this year he has 
joe Piane. "the best group of athletes I've ever 
The mt:et will probably be coached." He adds, however, that decided by the performaces of Greg "on paper the Hawkeyes should beat Bell, Bernie Adell, and Phil Gilmore us." 

• our famous apple pancakes 
• go.o.d tkuugk 9CLK. I g 2 • eiJttit o.Ke pett CMlo.Jttett e 
U.S. 3l(Dixieway) North in Roseland: • open at 6:30am 7days a week •
• 


--·-· .···.:-·:·-,·--""-··~:-==--=--.-~=======

The <lbsener~==-~·=-=-=-== 


~c:»c:lC3L~=·==========================~F=r=id=a=y,=Ja=n=u=ary==2=2=,1=9=8=2===pa=g=e=l=.S
Molarity 

k}ORLO 0~ ARDUOUS 

AJ...k)RLP ~ I/IJJV~ma:: I'/..L BE C::!RAI>UAII~ FRcrf 
IN JU!>f 1'1 F~IN HDN1115 
~~11'. A COf.JTJNU/f•JC:, 

~ TH~ "POWERFUL ,AJOT NOTR~ DA.HE:" AND 5TEPPINC:, 
6fffl!Q6ri-E" iO r.;€-EPYlVR 

T11E: RIGrH/ F?UL£:.. AWORL.J>
1

OVT INTO 111£' ~L i,.X)ffL[) 
H£AP AEOVE" WolTER 

Wl-i£f?J: 17-1~ IIJ{)IV/OU4L I~ 5CON FOR/3JC5T/E.N A5 H~ f£CC»'/E:5 AB~RB.G"D .. I 


Doonesbury 

~0 Wages 41 Not so much DOWN 32 Blemishes 34 Straight Talk 
21 Aits: Fr. 43-Aviv 1 Ouien -? 33 Will sup· 8:00p.m. 16 NBC Magazint: 22 Clutcher 44 Unstable 2 Actor plement 22 Dukt:s of llazzard 23 Menu item particles Robert 36 Alfresco 28 Bt:nson 
in Glasgow 45 Scuttles 3 Thine, 37 Compresses 34 Washingwn Wt:ek In R~·view 26 Stoked 47 Lomond, e.g. in Paris 42 Excels 46 Lt:st~·r Sumrall Tt:a~·hing 27 Blowgun 48 Colorless 4 Ship's 44 Substantial 8:30p.m. 28 Bosom Buddie~ 
missile animal Illumina­46 Switch 34 Wall Strt:t:t Week tion positions 
46 Th~· Rt:nt:Wt:d Mind

Thursday's Solution 5 Prohibi· 47 Coarse 9:00p.m. 16 McLain's Law tions woolen 

22 Dallas 6 Field cloth 
28 Darkroom

7 Defendants 48 Attention 
34 Creativity with Bill Moyt:rs

In Roman getter 
46 Today with l.t:stt:r Sumrall

law 49 Great 
9:30p.m. 34 lnsidt: Story

8 Garrison affection 
!O:OOp.m. 16 Tht: Devlin Connet:tion

9 Fictitious 50 Forehead 
22 l'akon Cr<"SI

10 Highly 51 Jerry, 
28 Oral Rolll'rts Wintt:r Spt:clal

spiced stew the singer 11 Aroma 52"-a man 
34 Non-l'iction TV 12 Like flax with..." 46 Jimmy Swaggart Wt:t:kly 14 Calls 53 Melville 11:00 p.m. 16 Nt:wsCt:nter 16 17 David's work 22 22 Eyt:witnt:ss Nt:ws 
victim 54 Zola 28 N<·wswatch .lH
© 1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 1/22/82 All Rights Reserved 
18-Vegas character 34 The Dick Cavell Show 22 Airs 56 Suit 46 Praist: tht: Lord
1122182 


ACROSS 31 Famous 1 Incrusta­racehorse
The Daily Crossword tion 32 Crazed 5 Canvas, 34 Pulpit for short talk: abbr. 
9 lamb 35 Kahn good· 13 Self: pref. bye song 14 Leader 38 Addition 15 Actor Ray to a house 16 Trumpeting 39 Dances 
song 40 Keaton of 19 Postlude films 
The ND Student Union presents 

MUSIC AND DANCING !! 

~~)!!!!!!!!!!~ Join the DJ up in the Chautauqua LaFortune Ballroom 
...... ·­
--..... GJAH ·~....
....... . 
....... ..... at 8:30 Saturday Night 
·~

....... .....
-· ..... Cost is only $1 per person for 
singles or bring a date and get ,...._. . ·~ in two-for-one


;.:: Q!Jjll :3 
~· •.........~iiiiiiiiii\~ BETHEREFORTHEFUN 
Michael Molinelli 

Campus 
Friday,january 22 
•12:15 
p.m.. 1:15 p.m. -Meeting, ND/SMC Italian Club, Faculty Dining Room, South Dining Hall, All Italian-speaking faculty welcome 

• 
3:30 p.m. Development Workshop, "Systems Production, Economic Interests, in Governmental Support in Southern Africa", Dr. Ron Libby, Visiting Professor in Government and International Studies, 900 Library, Sponsored by Department ofEconomi<:s 

•4 
p.m.-Meeting, CILA, Everyone Is welcome 

•4 
-'i p.m. -Spanish Club Tertulia, Basement of LaFortune, Every Friday, Venga para hablar con nosotros y practicar el artc de conversar! 


. •5:15 p.m. -Mass, Fort Wayne Diocese com· memorating the 1973 Supreme Court decision legalizing abortion, Bishop McManus of South Bend, Sacred Heart Church, Sponsored by ND/SMC Right To Life, All arc welcome 
•7. 
9:15, I 1:30 p.m. -Film, "Chapter Two", Engineering Auditorium, SI admission 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, "The Gospel According To St. \-tatthew", Annenburg Auditorium, SI admission 

•7:30 
p.m. -Hockey, Notre Dame vs. Bowling Green, CCHA Game, ACC 

•7:30 
· I 0 p.m.-Dance, ''Welcome Hack Dance", 


Logan Ct:nter Saturday,january 23 
•9. 
11:30 p.m.-Saturday Recreation, New and Old Volunteers welcome, Logan Center •-t p.m. -Basketball, Notre Dame Women vs. St. Ambrose, ACC 

•r:; 
p.m. -Ski Trip, Swiss Valley, Met·t at Main



Jeb Cashin 
Circle. Sponsored hy Srutlent llnion 

' 
•""'. 9:1 'i. I I :30 p.m. -Film, "'Lost Horizon", Engineering Auditorium. Spunsored hy the Him Club, SI admission 
•"':30 
p.m. -Hockey, Notre Dame vs. Bowling Green, CCHA game. ACC 

•H 
p.m. -Basketball, Notre Dame Men vs. 


:\lan·land. ACC · Sunday,january 24 
•2 
p.m. -Basketball, Notre Dame Women vs. Michigan, ACC 

•"7 
p.m. -Speech, Democratic Senatorial Can· didate \-like Kendall, LaFortune Center 




Television 

51 Will 23 Lodging 

Tonight

55 Quandary of a kind 57 Bacchana-24 Soap plant lian cry 25 British 
7:00p.m. 16 MASil 

58 Worked up brigs 
22 CBS Nt:ws 

59 Advertising 26 Lethal 
28 Joka's Wild 

gas 28 Shillong is 
34 Tht: Ma~·Nt:ii/L~·hrt:r Rt:port

60 Sea gulls its capital 
46 In Touch

61 British 29 California 
7:30p.m. 16 All in the l'amily

gun rockfish 
22 l'amily l't:ud

62 Portico 30 Kilmer 
28 Tic Tac Dough
poem 


r-------~-­
Friday,january 22, 1982-page 16



Sports 

Matvey, Irish massacre Cavaliers 
By MARK HANNUKSELA 
Sports Writer 
VALPARAISO, Ind. -"They have 

, to get right offthe bus and play. Let's see how they handle that," said Notre Dame Assistant Coach Pat Knapp prior to last night's game. Because of a mix-up in travel plans, Notre Dame's women's bas­t ketball team left South Bend more than half an hour late yesterday. They arrived here less than 90 minutes before the 7 p.m. starting time. Knapp would have to admit today that his team handled the problem well. Notre Dame showed no ill ef­fects from the hour-long bus ride, and put forth one ofit's better efforts both offensively and defensively, in drubbing Valparaiso 84-27. 
Junior center Shari Matvey was dominant on both ends of the floor against the small Crusader club. In 21 minutes of playing time, Matvey scored 24 points on 12-of-15 shoot­ing from the floor, pulled down 16 rebounds, seven of which resulted in field goals, and handed out one as­sist, a pretty feed to freshman Mary Beth Schueth. 
Freshmen Carrie Bates, Ruth Kaiser and Laura Dougherty also scored in double figures for Coach Mary DiStanislao's club. Bates scored 15, Kaiser 13 and Dougherty 10. 
Bates also collected nine 
rebounds. 
Carol Radivan led the Crusaders with nine points. The sophomore guard connected on just 4-of-20 shots from the floor. 
Overall, the Irish shot 53 percent from the floor to Valpo's 25 percent. The Crusaders hit 3-of-8 shots from the free throw line, while the Irish connected on 6-ot~ 7. 
The taller Irish doubled Valpo's rebounding total, pulling down 50 to Valpo's 25. 
Four Notre Dame spurts determined the final margin of vic­tory. The four spurts, added togeth­er, covered more than an entire half, and altogether, the Irish outscored their opponents 52-0 in the span. 

"You can't disagree with a 50­point margin of victory," said DiS­tanislao afterward. "We just never lost much regardless of what com­bination we used. Shari played good defense tonight, and she was able to 
See WOMEN, page 12 

~ Weekend series 
leers ready for third place Falcons 
By MICHAEL OLENIK recent weeks and right now they are both offense and defense has Sports Writer playing as well as any team in the na­brought a more satisfied look to the tion." face of Smith. In the Great Lakes 
It should be one of those match­Largely responsible for Bowling Tourney, as well as last week's series ups that both fans and coaches Green's streak has been the play of at Michigan, Smith has been gc;tting dream about. Both teams have its top line that consists of George the type of puck movement that ample reason to win, and each has McPhee, Brian Hills and Peter Wil­makes the Irish a tough team to been proving that they are very son. The trio accounted for 19 as Notre Dame routed Valparaiso capable ofdoing so t . points in last week's 10-4 win over See ICERS, page 10 84-27. (Photo by Chery/Ertelt) 
The Notre Dame hockey team will Ferris State -including seven as­face its sternest test of the season sists by Hills and seven goals be­this weekend with a pair of games tween McPhee and Wilson. against CCHA leader and the third-In his I 7 conference games this Similarsituations 
»-ranked team in the nation, Bowling year, Hills has knocked in 1 7 goals Green. and added 24 assists to give him a The Falcons, 1 5-8-1 on the season, league-leading 41 points. McPhee 


Irish, Terps set to battle 
have been virtually unbeatable in was named CCHA player ofthe week the last two months. After a 0-7-1 for his eight-point weekend against start, Jerry York's squad has ripped Ferris State and is closing in quickly By DAVE DZIEDZIC Maryland's four top scorers. Togeth­says. "He's a very aggressive, physi­through its schedule with on most of Bowling Green's all-time Sports Writer er these four (King, Williams, Ernest cal player. Pittman runs well for his phenomenal success. In fact, the Fal­scoring records. Graham, and Greg Manning) 
size and he's a good shot blocker. He cons' only setback in the its last 16 Surprisingly, Bowling Green's Digger Phelps can certainly un­averaged 51.7 points a game, which 
will definitely present a challenge to contests came I 0 games ago at the blueline.. corps is anchored by two derstand the problems that was 68 percent of Maryland's 1980-us." hands of Michigan State. freshman who are contributing on Maryland Coach Charles 'Lefty' 81 scoring output. While Maryland's strength is . Credentials such as these are dif­offense as well as defense. Garry Gal­Driesell has faced this season. "Their The loss ofsuch key personnel has inside, the Terps' backcoun is for­ficult to ignore, and Coach Lefty ley and Dan Kane have been pleasant situation is very similar to what made things tough for the Terrapins midable as well. Senior Dutch Mor­Smith is perfectly willing to ac­suprises for York, as they rank fourth we've been through," says Phelps. this season. The Terp's record ( 10-ley and freshman JeffAdkins stan. knowledge the task that lays before and fifth respectively in team "They've lost a lot ofkey people and 5) is not that bad, but they've been "Morley is their quarterback,"his seventh-place team. 
scoring. they've had to struggle." blown off the court by North says Phelps. "He runs the club. Ad­"Bowling Green will come here Mike David has compiled a 14-4-1 Indeed, the Terrapins have lost Carolina State, UCLA (on national kins has a very nice outside shootingranked in the top three in the record in goal for the Falcons and is key people. Four of Driesell's start­television), and Nonh Carolina. touch. He can score when they need country, so it will be a heckuva test the eight ranked goaltender in the ers from last year's 21-10 squad They are currently struggling in the him." for us," mused Smith earlier in the league with a 3.64 goals against graduated, including current NBA Atlantic Coast Conference with a 2-4 Brokaw echoes Phelps' comments
* week. "They started out sluggishly, mark. players Albert King and Buck Wil­record. on Morley. "Morley is a very headybut they have really come on in For the Irish, improved play on liams. These four starters were also Despite Maryland's record, Phelps player," he says. "They need him to 
believes that the Terapins are run the offense. We must try to deny playing well at this point. "They're him the ball and let Adkins handle not a 10-5 team," he says. "Lefty has it." got them playing well together. The The Terrapins will probably use a younger players are coming around combination of defenses against the


Meyers set to join Packers 
and beginning to form a unit. They Irish. Even though Driesell favors a did an excellent job in taking Vir­man-to-man defense. he will occas­
ginia to overtime (the Cavaliers sionally employ a zone and a press.

By KELLY SULLIVAN 
him. He thought it would be good season, will join the Irish staff this 
eventually won, 45-40). They are "They might use a box-and-one toSports Writer for me and for his program, and spring. Selmer is a 24-year veteran of definitely on the way up." 
try to stop John Paxson's outside that's basically the way we left it." college coaching. 

One ofthe main reasons the Terps shooting," says Brokaw. 'T 'But weFormer Irish assistant Bill Meyers, Meyers issued a statement to the 

The 56-year-old native of Min­are on their way up is 6-8 freshman should be able to counteract that."who coached the defensive line for University saying, "I love the place. neapolis, Minn., first coached in the forward Adrian Branch. Branch is Rebounding is a key in many bas­Gerry Faust last fall, has accepted a That's the way I feel. My entire fami­prep ranks at Worland High School the latest All-American graduate 
ketball games, and this contestjob as offensive line coach with the ly has enjoyed our three years here. in Wyoming, compiling a 80-14-2 from Maryland's DeMatha High 

should be no different. "ReboundingGreen Bay Packers. We're grateful for having ex­mark in nine years. From there, he School. Having started each of will be a question mark," says 

Meyers, a Wisconsin native, was 

perienced the thrilling football took a job at Wyoming University Maryland's 15 games, Branch is the extremely enthused about the games, the loyal fans and the student under Bob Devaney for the next five Terps' leading scorer, averaging prospect of joining Coach Ban Starr body." 
seasons. 14.6 points per contest. and his staff. "My family and I are Former Irish Head Coach Dan 
Selmer followed Devaney to "Branch is an excellent all-around 
excited to become a pan ofthat par­Devine, who guided the Packers for Nebraska in 1962, and spent eleven 
player," says Irish assistant Coach ticular organization. We've heard four seasons before coming to Notre years with the Huskers as their of­Gary Brokaw. "He can beat the op­
nothing but good things about the Dame, refused comment on any role fensive line coach. During that time, position inside or outside. He's a Packers from Tim Huffman." Huf­he may have played in Meyers' 
he worked with current Irish pressure player, and they go to him 
fman, a former offensive lineman for move. Devine acknowledged, linebacker coach George Kelly. in the clutch." 
Notre Dame under Meyers, was however, that Meyers "could have Nebraska captured two consecutive Branch's teammates on the front drafted by Green Bay last spring, but had that job two years ago, but opted 
National Championships in '70 and line are no slouches, either. Both was plagued by injuries and played to stay on at Notre Dame." '71. 
Charles Pittman, a 6-9 senior, and in only two games. Meanwhile, Faust has hired a new Selmer became offensive coor­
Herman Veal, a 6-6 sophomore,Meyers refuted earlier reports offensive line coach to fill the void dinator for Miami (Fla.) in 1973 average 11.2 points a game. Brokaw that he had left Notre Dame by force. caused by the departure of Tom before assuming the head job there. 
is espescially impressed with Pit­"My parting with Coach Faust was Backhus. His Hurricaine teams finished 5-16 tman, the only returning staner. never really a firing," he said. "I was Carl Selmer, who tutored lineman after two seasons. "He's had two very good games
thinking about leaving and he for the British Columbia lions in the against Clemson and Canisius (the
See MEYERS, page 13(Faust) said it would be fine with Canadian Football League last Terps' last nvo contests)," Brokaw 

See TERPS, page 12 


Inside: 
Harriers, p. 14 Wrestlers, p. 13 Phelps ,p. 12 




