• • .SM C security -page 7 

VOL. XVII, NO. 55 the imkpt:ntknt ~tmknt nt:w~papcr ~t:r\'ing notre dame and ~aint man ~ MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1982 
Walesa returns homle after disappearance 
GDANSK, Poland (AP) Solidarity chief Lech Walesa returned to a joyful homecoming yesterday after mysteriously disappearing for more than a day following his release from 11 months in martial-law custody. 
There was no immediate explana­tion for Walesa's delay in coming home to the first-floor apartment in this Baltic port city where his wife, seven children and hundreds of friends and supporters had main­tained a long, anxious vigil. Walesa was arrested when martial law was imposed Dec. 1.3 and Solidarity suspended. The independent union 
was  outlawed  by  Parliament  last  
month.  
The  crowd  broke  into  cheers  

when the .39-year-old union chief showed up just before 10:30 p.m. ­4:.30 p.m. EST. 
But Walesa jumped from the car, and accompanied by several bodyguards, rushed into the build­ing without shaking hands. Wit­nesses discounted an earlier report that the bodyguards were Solidarity members and said it appeared they were government security men. 
After five minutes and in response to the incessant chants ofthe crowd, he went to an open window of the apartment and said, "I will speak very briefly because I have not used my voice for one year. 
"We have to reach an agreement, but not on our knees," he said, ec­hoing the statement he made during an interview with the government television network Saturday at the state-run lodge in southeastern Poland where he had been held for the past six months. 
When he asked if the interview had been shown on television last night, the crowd roared, "No." 
Walesa arrived in a :four-car caravan when a crowd that had swelled to about 3,000 during the day's waiting had dwindled to about 500. 
He returned to the drab apart­ment in Gdansk's Zaspa district four days after the military regime an­nounced his impending release from the government lodge at Arlamow, where he had been in custody for six of the 11 months of internm<~nt. 
Mystery, speculation and official silence had surrounded W'alesa's whereabouts since the communist government announced ~·aturday that it had freed him. 
Authorities had said they were freeing him because they no longer considered him a political threat, and that he had promised to •come to terms with the martial-law govern­ment. 
The government said Saturday that Walesa had left Arlamow and distributed pictures showing the un­ion leader carrying suitcases. A black car was pictured in the background. 
A copy of the transcrip1: of the television interview that was ob­tained by The Associated Press quoted Walesa as saying he wants a reconciliation with the government but "not on my knees." 
The crowd gathered outside the Walesa apartment, one of hundreds of nondescript dwelling~; in a Gdansk suburb, had decorated the neighborhood with Polish flags, red Solidarity banners, pictures of Walesa and flowers. Police made no moves to stop them. 

A Moscow resident looks through a handful of newspapers in the Soviet capital Friday morning. Thefrontpages ofallpapers wereframed in black 

Seek 'constructive' ties 

Shultz, Bush fly to Moscow 
MOSCOW {AP) -Secretary of State George P. Shultz flew to Mos­cow yesterday for Leonid I. Brezhnev's funeral, and said he wanted the new Kremlin leadership to know the United States is ready for "constructive" East-West ties. 
Vice President George Bush arrived from Nigeria to join Shultz, and both planned a visit to the House of Unions where the late Soviet president's body lay in state. Bush broke away from a seven­nation African tour to lead the U.S. 
'Guest Act' 

Victim suffers from injury law 
By Jeff Harrington 
Senior Staff ReP..QrJer 

just under a year ago, on Dec. 1, 1981, Lou Rivera, a I98I Notre Dame graduate, was riding in South Bend with a friend. The friend, who was driving, suddenly lost control of the car in which the two were travel­ing, and it crashed into a telephone pole. Although Rivera suffered ex­tensive injury, he was virtually stymied by a I 9 3 7 Indiana law -the so-called "Guest Act" -in attempts to collect any monetary compensa­tion. The Guest Act prohibits most one-car accident passengers from claiming any insurance benefits. 
To alert students to what he terms "an antiquated law which basically gives immunity to drivers in one-car accidents," Rivera came to South Bend last week from San Diego, where has been living since gradua­tion last June. His decision to bring his campaign against the Guest Act to Indiana "only marks the next stage in the fight which began last December," said Rivera. 
Rivera was propelled through the car windshield during the accident, which resulted in the severmg of a nerve behind his right eye and a gash on his forehead. Since a nerve injury ofthis severity could have promoted retinal holes and bilateral retinal detachment, he underwent laser surgery last February. 
"After two-and-a-half weeks in St. joe's Hospital, I left with very little feeling on the right side of my forehead and upper head area for the rest of my life," said Rivera. He cone ed rd that he felt "lucky" be­cause unsuccessful surgery could have led to permanent loss of sight in his right eye. 
"In addition, my skull bone around the right eye was chipped and cracked in two place:>, which will require additional plastic sur­gery to go in and remove the chipped bone and glass," he said. 
Rivera stressed that his physica! 

loss was intensified by tne emotional and financial consequences of the accident. "I missed out on a chance to attend UCLA architectur·e school as a result (ofthe accident) .. while I've spent over S7,000 in air travel between Indiana and California and in phone calls to my (South Bend) lawyer," he said. "If I didn't have a job, this would have wiped me out." 
Despite his injuries, Rivera said he decided "it wasn't worth" t2.king the case to court since the chances of winning would have been ":;o slim." 
Rivera added that he was reluc­tant to take his friend to court since he (Rivera) would have been obligated to prove "gross negligence" on the part of the driver. "I would have been literally tearing the person apart ... to win, you would have to prove your friend is a jerk, which is an injustice in it­self," he said. 
In stipulating that one can collect insurance claims only if the ride in­volves a "business" transaction, Rivera said that any social relation­ship between the driver and the pas­senger practically eliminates the chance ofa financial settlement. 
The Indiana Guest Act states that: "The owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall not be liable for loss or damages arising from injuries to or death of a guest ... unless such in­juries or death are caused by the wanton or willfull misconduct of such operator, owner, or person responsible for the operation of such motor vehicle." 
Since "wanton or willful miscon­duct" of the driver must be proved, "the law leads a court ofjustice into · obscurity when affirmation or rever­sal of the case (in question) is often decided on hair-splitting dif­ferences," said Rivera. "Ifthe injured person proceeds to fight for com­pensation, it will require tremen­dous effort and time; sadly, this will all be in vain." 
In emphasizing the ambiguity of the Guest Act, Rivera expressed his concern that "the injured party is forced to play a game with the law. One has to set up a series of negligent acts (on the driver's part) 
See Rivera p:1ge 5 defegation at the Brezhnev funeral. 

Bush is the first American vice president to visit Moscow since Dwight D. Eisenhower's vice presi­dent Richard M. Nixon came here in 1959 to meet with Soviet leader Nikita S. Khrushchev. 
Brezhnev, who died Wednesday of an apparent heart attack after leading the Soviet Union for 18 years, will be given a hero's burial today in Red Square. He was 75 years old. 
Speaking to reporters at the home of U.S. Ambassador Arthur A. Hartman, Shultz said: "If con­structive behavior emerges on the part of the Soviet Union, the United States is prepared to respond and is prepared for a more constructive relationship than we have had in past years." 
He refused to comment about Yuri V. Andropov, who succeeded Brezhnev as general secretary of the nation's ruling Communist Party. He also said he and Bush would like to meet with Soviet leaders but that no sessions had been scheduled. 
In a tough speech Friday when he was named to succeed Brezhnev, Andropov, former head of the KGB secret police, said, "We know well that the imperialists will never meet one's pleas for peace. It can only be defended by relying on the invin­cible might of the Soviet armed forces." 
The Soviets use the term im­perialists to refer to the West. 
Neither Andropov nor Defense Minister Dmitri F. Ustinov, in a speech the same day, mentioned detente with the West, which Brezhnev proclaimed as the cor­nerstone ofhis foreign policy. 
See Shultz page 6 

SMCparietal system successful 
By THERESA HARDY 
News Staff 

Based upon a week of experimentation, the new Saint Mary's parietals system is quite successful, according to Sister Karol Jack­owski, director ofstudent housing. 
"There have been no real problems. I've only received positive feedback from students concerning the new system," she said. 
Parietals were extended last week to include Monday through Thursday, 5 to 10 p.m.; Friday, 5 p.m. to 2 a.m.; Saturday 1 p.m. to 2 a.m.; and Sunday, 1 to 10 p.m. 
Although use the extended parietals system has been nominal, Jackowski added, "Initially, we did not anticipate many students during the week." 
Margaret Cavan, Regina Hall residence director, said, "The system has made no big difference so far, since most students devote their weeknights to studying." 
Student reaction to the new system varies. "The parietals system is good because it allows more interaction between men and women. It's a healthy thing," said one freshman. 
"I don't think it matters too much. Besides, there have been no problems with it," said Junior Mary Sitko, a resident assistant in McCandless Hall. 
Sophomore Helen Calacci said, "It is a nuisance because it will make the halls noisier. The system is not one designed for studying, but entertaining." 
Lisa Schulte, residence director of Holy Cross, commented on the additional parietals desk duty required of students under the new system. "I have received some mixed feelings concerning the one­hour desk duty, but most students are willing to put in their hour. I feel the system is working very well and it hasn't been abused by anyone." 



'News Brie/§ 
By The Obserwr and The Associated Press 
The senior classwill be raffling a senior class trip tick­et to Los Angeles for the USC football game over Thanksgiving Break. Raffle tickets will be on sale today through Thursday. The cost is $1 per ticket. Students need not be seniors to purchase tickets. Proceeds will be used to provide Thanksgiving dinners for needy families in the Northeast Neighborhood. Tickets may be purchased from any senior class dorm representative or from Amy in the Stu­dent Activities office in LaFortune. The winner will be announced midnight Thursday at Senior Bar. Senior Class secretary Sean Maloney commented, "The Block Party was very successful. We'd like to continue improving relations with the Northeast Neighbor­hood. This is a good opportunity to help some less fortunate people." -The Observer 
The State-run SovietneWSagencyTass said yes­
terday that U.S. trade sanctions to block construction ofthe Siberian pipeline had failed. This appeared to be the first official reaction to President Reagan's decision to lift the sanctions. The Tass dispatch did not mention Reagan's Saturday announcement. "By means of those measures, Washington unsuccessfully tried to frustrate the construction ofthe Siberia-Western Europe gas pipeline," Tass said. Reagan had embargoed the sale and delivery of pipeline equipment to the Soviet Union by U.S. firms and their foreign subsidiaries in response to Soviet support for the imposition of martial law in Poland last Dec. 13. U.S. officials also said they opposed the pipeline because in their view it would make Western Europe too dependent on Soviet natural gas. But Britain, Italy, West Germany and France contended the sanctions were unfair to them and had cost West European firms an estimated n 1 million in lost contracts with the Soviets. -AP 
Inland Steelhas decidedto distribute food and 
toys to families oflaid-offworkers rather than host the East CWcago, 
Indiana's largest holiday party. Families of 3,500 steelworkers are 
going to benefit from the cancellation, the company says. "Ending a 
party tradition that goes back to the '30s is a sad note for many, but 
we wanted to do somethlng more substantial to help our laid-off 
employees and their families," said Thomas G. Katsahnias, Inland 
vice president. "A thanksgiving food distribution seemed much 
more tangible and much more appropriate in these times," he said. 
The annual children's Christmas party sponsored by Inland's Indiana 
Harbor Works for up to 12,000 employee offspring will be replaced 
by a food and toy giveaway. The 545,000 originally budgeted to 
cover the party now will be used to fund a Thanksgiving dinner 
program for approximately 1,500 employees who have been laid olf 
since beforejune 3. -AP 
TwO aideS tO Iran'S exeCUted former Foreign 
Minister Sadegh Ghotbzadeh received prison terms for conspiring with him to overthrow the Islamic .revolutionary government, the official Iranian news agency said yesterday. Ghotbzadeh was con­victed and executed Sept. 1 5 after he was found guilty by a revolutionary court ofconspiracy to topple the regime ofAyatollah Ruhollah Khomeini last April. The state-run Islamic Republic News Agency said Abdulreza Hejazi was sentenced to seven months in prison for being -"insignificantly involved," in Ghotbzadeh's al­leged plans. It said Ahmed Abbasi was sentenced to eight months in prison and 1 0 years confined to his house. The agency did not elaborate on how the two were implicated. -AP 
Eleven bodies were found washed ashore on 
the Mediterranean coastline 25 miles from a spot where a Greek merchant ship is believed ro have sunk Nov. 8, in Alexandria, an Egyptian harbor officer said yesterday. "The bodies probably belong to the crew," Brig. Aly Suleiman said in a telephone interview. But he said he could not confirm this. The bodies -10 male and one female -were washed ashore Saturday, all wearing life preservers, he said. The 336-foot ship had ;21 crew members, including nine Egyptians. It was en route from Spain to Egypt and was last heard from 25 miles from Alexandria during a bad storm. Search efforts have been futile. 
-AP 
Seven anti-nuclear weaponsprotesters were 
arrested yesterday after making "unauthorized entry" into the Groton, Conn. shipyard where the Navy's Trident nuclear sub­marines are built, police said. The protesters said they climbed aboard the USS Georgia, the nation's newest Trident sub, poured their own blood on the vessel and damaged the missile hatches with hammers. Neither the police nor the shipyard owner would confirm the report. Three women and four men were taken into custody at about 4:20 am. and charged with first-degree criminal trespassing and first-degree criminal mischief; police Sgt. Louis Kistler said. The protesters, in a statement issued to the media, called their raid "hope and hammers" and condemned the new line ofnuclear missile-firing submarines as "the ultimate blasphemy against God and humanity ... demonic." -AP 

AJapanese trainer jetperforming at an air show in Tokyo crashed in flames yesterday, killing the pilot, injuring 11 people, burning two homes and damaging 30 parked cars as 80,000 horrified spectators watched, police said. None of the injured was hurt seriously, police said The jet crashed less than a mile from a Japan Air Self-Defense Force base in Hamamatsu, about 136 miles southwest of Tokyo. Police said the cause of the accident was not known. -AP 
Mostly sunny and continued cotct today. 

Highs in the upper 30s. Overnight lows in the upper 20s. Clear ·tomorrow, warmer with highs in!he low 50s. -A.P 
Monday, November 15, 1982 -page 2 
Can R 2D2 replace thelibrary? 
There hasn't been so much excitement in the field of information management since Brother Dominic in­troduced the Xerox machine to his buddies of the television commercial monastery. 
The current computer revolution is providing more and more answers to the prayers ofengineers and scien­tists drowning amidst a sea oftechnical information. 
So much information has exploded since the 1950s that some researc.h experts, such as Notre Dame's Vice President for Advanced Studies Robert Gordon, say "it's impossible (for scientists) to keep up with all the latest information in (their) fields." 
It was Gordon, in fact, who contributed to a report ten years ago from the Council on Biological Sciences Information predicting the ascension ofcomputer tech­nology in organizing and disseminating technical data. 
The Notre Dame Biology department, for example, has emerged as an archetype offaith in computer tech­nology. Chairman Theodore Crovello guides his depart­ment in the use of computers in every aspect of research and education, especially in literature and data retrieval. 
Computer-aided literature searches uncover what would take weeks to find in old-style indexes of bibliographic data -in no more than two hours. And ofEngineering praises. 

This trend toward computerized information net­works is exactly how Gordon and his friends on the biology information council foresaw the use of com­puters in science. If this trend is taken to its inevitable conclusion, however, it leads to the mild heresy that computers should replace the printed word. 
Why rely on expensive publications if a resear.cher can simply enter an article into a data base and have only those interested read it from a computer screen? Let the microcomputer replace the journal(or even a newspaper); let the data base replace the library. 
The key is that computers are extensions not replace­ments. But as extensions, computers will no doubt have -and are having -an impact on present modes of information management, if not as transforming as the 
above suggestions. The bestthe literature discovered by 

~[]TRE IJH~E S~[]l[]BY IJEPT 
a computer is often more libraries will have to germane to a researcher's 
become active information needs than references found 
hunters and will no longer in a card file. 
be able to rely on shelves of But beyond bibliographic 
often outdated journals. data bases, the Biology 
Of course, a lot depends on how much money is in adepartment has developed library's collection basket.

an array of numerical data Information has a bigbases on subjects ranging 
pricetag-more than the in­

from childhood diseases to dividual researcher can af­aquatic data of Saint Mary's ford but • again, theLake. 
promise of computer ef­No other Biology depart­

ficiency may help bridgement has such a heavenly this almost sinful cost. 

tool. "The wise and creative 

use of computers has become one of our hal­lmarks," Crovello says. "We just believe the research group with the data will make the discoveries." 
Across the Library quad from the Life Sciences build­ing, Alberta Ross of the Radiation Chemistry Data Cen­ter. has the same belief Ross coordinates the 17-year-old RCDC that offers universities, industry, and government both numerical and bibliographic informa­tion on radiation and photo chemistry. 
With the grace oftwo in-house computers, the RCDC has created an international network for bibliographic data. Some 75,000 articles from more than 1,000 jour­nals have been organized so that on a minute's notice a computer can list just those articles of interest to a re­searcher. 
The numerical data is on a computer but only available to Radiation Laboratory researchers, and the RCDC still relies on periodic publications to distribute this information to the secular world. 
Together, the RCDC -the only one in the world with its capabilities -is a precursor to more general information networks, such as DIALOG that the College 6!zft Ab6t.J Computers, despite this 
confusing era of instant in­
formation, enhance our 
mental capabilities like the Industrial Age enhanced our physical. But one truth will sustain the ages: the most specific information is the hardest to acquire, yet the most specific information is what the scientific con· gregation wants. 
As scientists and engineers approach another cen­tury, they realize there is now more information available than any one ofthem can grasp. Thank God for the computer. Maybe it can find the needle in the in­formation havstack that even Brother Dominic and Xerox would have to consider a miracle. 
Observer notes 
----------------~ 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views ofthe author and as such do not necessarily represent the views ofThe Observer or its editorial board. 
The~Observer 
PAR PUNKIN' THREE WEEK 
Design Editor J.P. Keyes, Amateur Angler Design Assistant .................... Pete Vicious, 
Tom Spittle Typesetters ................................... TantorJim NewsEdttor ............................... Dave Death Copy Editor ............................ Kathy Venom ND Day Editor..................... Dogfood Dave SMC DAYEditor .......................................... X Features Layout.............................. Libby X, 
Portrait of a punk Editorials Layout............... Plasticine Paul Sports Copy Editor.............:......... Big Chris Typist ..................................... Mangy Monica Ad Design ................................. Bloody Mary Photographer ........................... Diana Death Guest Appearances ........ Vomit and Stink, 
our heroswines 
"TIIJit's not my mother, 
that's a plastic bag." 
The Observer !USPS 598 9201 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacation penods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col· lege Subscnptlons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnllng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduct1on nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 


You're Needed AllOver the World. 
Ask Peace Corps volunteers why their ingenuity and flexibility ore as vital os their degrees. They'll rell you they ore helping the world's poorest peoples otroin self sufficiency in the areas of food production, energy conservation, education, economic development and heolrh services. And rhey' II tell you about rhe rewards of hands on career experience overseas. They'll tell you It's rhe roughest job you'll ever love. 
REGISTER NOW AT THE PLACEMENT OFFICE FOR INTERVIEWS TUES & WED, NOV. 16 & 17 

PEACE CORPS 

Monday, November 15, 1982 -page 3 
The Observer 
Shuttle astronauts prepare for space wctlk 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -Columbia. Flight officials ~;wapped Space shuttle astronauts readied activities yesterday and today after their gear yesterday for America's Lenoir called in sick. first space walk in nine years, as two "The doctor has instructed him to Soviet cosmonauts coasted to an en­drink fluids and eat ·light meals," a durance record for man-in-space. NASA spokesman said of Lenoir's 
The Soviets had logged I85 days recovery. Later, Lenoir took part in -six month~ -aboard Salyut 7. an "electro-oculogram expe·riment" 
The space walk by Columbia's -a previously scheduled test to two mission specialists, scheduled help solve the question of why so for 7:50 a.m. EST today, depended many astronauts become ill in on William Lenoir's stomach. His weightlessness. queasiness had forced NASA to_ or­Commander Vance Brand com­der a one-day delay; yesterday he mented, "We're the first of many 
was working without complaint. fearless foursomes on fumre mis­
Sailing high above Africa, sions," and pilot Robert Overmyer astronaut Joseph Allen peered into mentioned, "We're not much at the space shuttle's open cargo bay talking, but we sure eat a lot." yesterday and reported, "We're Columbia is scheduled to land looking forward to going out there tomorrow on the concrete runway tomorrow -looks like it needs at Edwards AFB in California. its mis­some dusting and cleaning.'' sion a success with or without an 
Mission Control: "We can't wait to astronaut excursion into space. get started." Lenoir and Allen will sit The first of two satellites in their space suits for three hours, deployed by Lenoir and Allen was breathing pure oxygen, before locked into its stationary position venturing out. Saturday, 22,300 miles above earth, 
"We are absolutely confident that by the firing of a spacecraft rocket. Bill is going to be feeling well," said The second satellite will be arrested Flight Director Tommy Holloway. in its geosynchronous orbit today. "The important thing is that he's The EVA 8 extravehicular activity hungry, he's eating as much as he will be the first by an American sine~ Ancient method wants to eat and he feels com­Skylab 4 in February I974. Its fortable." purpose on this flight is to test new 
As Columbia moved through the space suits, tools and the ability to 


Doctor discusses acupuncture 
third day ofits five-day flight, Anato­work outside the shuttle. ly Berezovoy and Valentin Lebedev, After pre-breathing pure oxygen 
By CHUCK KRILL Chinese doctor first, who would do and Yang. "The hyperactive,aboard the Soviet space station so they don't get the bends later, News Staff the acupuncture or give them some dominant, aggressive type would be
Salyut 7 since May I3, broke the Lenoir and Allen will step through a considered more Yang
herbal medicines or teas for treat­the per­manned space flight endurance air lock to the empty cargo bay, at­
Acupuncture is not lthe ineffective ment of disease. If that was not suc­sonality," he said, and the Yin per­record. Lebedev was the last man to tach themselves to safety 1:ethers, 
folk remedy Westerners believe it to cessful, then they would go to a sonality "was considered more take a space walk -lastJuly 30. and practice tasks that will become be, according to a Notre Dame Western doctor.'' passive or submissive." Yesterday was a light day aboard essential in the future. graduate who recently completed a "Even a lot of Hong Kong-trained 
As a family practitioner in Cincin­trip to Southeast Asia. Western doctors would go to an nati, Ohio, Seitz does not use

Dr. Roy Seitz discussed the role of 
acupuncturist or an herbal doctor acupuncture, though it is permittt·d
acupuncture in Chinese medical 
for their family or even themselves," in the United States. He graduated
care and demonstrated the tech­
before resorting to Western treat­from Notre Dame in I974 and


Saint Edwards Hall 
nique yesterday in a lecture 
ments, Seitz said. 
received his medical degree from

sponsored by the Notre Dame 
He attributes the great use of the University ofCincinnati in I978,Preprofessional Club. 
acupuncture in Eastern countries to 
Seitz worked for two months in a where he is a part-time faculty mem­
celebrates centenni~~l 
its success in certain applications.
Hong Kong mission hospitaf, after ber.
"It is indeed true that I think herbal 
By MIKE MAZZOLI sense ot umty throughout the year. which he visited Mainland China. medicine and a lot of acupuncture He says that the traditional StaffReporter And in the end we were able to "The ultimate pan of the trip," said works better for some things than Chinese ideas explaining return to a new St. Ed's which was Seitz, was visiting a Chinese provin­acupuncture are not used hy \X'es­
Western medicine does," he said. 
cial hospital. Seitz expressed the tern doctors, but there are !'>ome
The newly-renovated Saint Ed­better than it had ever been bdore." Acupuncture, in particular, is use­Fr. Mario Pedi, rector at St. Ed's, opinion that he may have been the 
"health professionals who do useward's Hall first opened its doors to ful, Seitz claimed, in treating acne, 

appreciates the hall's long history first Westerner to visit the medical acupressure, which is based on the
undergraduate residents I00 years migraine headaches and even drug same theories as acupuncture" ex­but, like Crouth, emphasizc:s that facility. addiction.
ago. This week the hall celebrates its sense of unity which distinguishes Although he said that the hospitals Seitz described traditional cept that the skin is not pierced in centennial by emphasizing both its applying pressure.
St. Ed's. "It's nice to live in a dorm in Hong Kong and, especially, in acupuncture as the placing of
past and present, honoring its long with a long tradition," he said, "and China are not as modern as Western needles of various sizes under the "I believe in acupuncture," hetradition and remembering the the roots linking us to previous com­hospitals, those Seitz worked in skin (in a manner that often depencis said. "I don't believe it cures every­sense of unity common to its many "used almost entirely Western on the time ofday and on the time of thing all the time, but I think there'smunities are impressive and impor­generations ofresidents. 
medicines. They did use a little the lunar month) to add or subtract a role or it." Assessing acupuncture's
tant, but we should pankularly

St. Ed's began the observance of acupuncture, but not a great deal." "energy" from the body. future, Seitz predicts, "It will neverappreciate the community we haveits centennial over the weekend, He noted, however, that people in The acupuncturist attempted to be popular in this country, but it will now, and focus on it.
with a tour of the hall and reception Hong Kong "would go to their balance two types of energy -Yin become more available." for guests on Saturday and a com­memorative Mass celebrated by Uni­versity President Father Theodore 
"U5<[ l-'lifl[_ \:-lt"f 1HM'\
Newpay1~oll tax may
Hesburgh in the hall chapel the 
CfOIWHIJI\JIICAilii{)I\J
following evening. Tonight the hall is sponsoring a Date Night at the 
cause unl:~mployment ~-------0 llrlfc!ll]fli(l[
Band Organ restaurant, and on Wed­

nesday night St. Ed's residents will offer a talent show at the Nazz, WASHINGTON (AP) -Raising tax might be increased next year beginning at 9. the payroll tax to bail out Social from 6. 7 percent to 7.05 percent. It 
Activities continue on Friday Security could put two to fot1r mil­is due to climb that high in I985 night at 7, with a presentation on the lion people out of work, Sent. Wil­automatically and then hit 7.65 per­history of the hall, which opened liam Armstrong, R-Colo., said cent in I990. when Fr. Thomas Walsh was presi­yesterday. 
"I think when it's over with, we dent of the University, and the 
But he said he could not rule out may have five or I 0 things we put in concluding event Saturday is the the possibility that he might sttpport the formula and we may have to dorm's annual semi-formal dance. a tax hike as part of a compromise sprinkle a lot ofsalt and pepper on it 
There was a moment two years solution "if the incentive were and just eat it as a congressional ago, after the aged dorm had been strong enough." delegation," said Pickle, who's not gutted by fire, when many believed Armstrong, chairman of the on the reform commission. 
St. Ed's had celebrated it last an­Senate Finance subcommittee on So­That panel concluded a three-day niversary, and the haunting memory cial Security and member of the Na­meeting Saturday without voting on of the near-destruction of the hall tional Commission on Social a compromise solution. It will meet has made this centennial an especial­Security Reform, said he favors cut­again Dec. I 0 and negotiations will ly significant occasion for the resi­ting back the annual cost-of.living continue behind the scenes in the 
dents ofSt. Ed's. increases in benefits to make up meantime. Brian Crouth, president of the most ofthe S I 50 billion to S200 bil­
,.............• 
hall, was one of the freshmen sent to lion deficit facing the system by 
. B .
live in St. Vincent's that year, which I990. saw many other St. Ed's residents Rep.J.J. Pickle, D-Texas, chairman 




: uy : 
scattered to converted study of the House Ways and Means sub­lounges in Flanner and Grace. "It committee on Social Security, said, • • could have been a bad situation for "You can't (just) cut benefits and 

: ObsertJer :
the hall," he said, but the spirit raise the money they're talking which first attracted him to St. Ed's about." weathered the temporary exile. He The two lawmakers were inter­continued, "Vincent became a cen­viewed on NBC-TV's "Meet the 

:ctassifieds! 
ter point of the 'hall without a hall,' Press." and we were able to maintain that Pickle suggested that the payroll
____...;..______________________• _____ -'• . J -· 
·~··j

.......,~·••'='••••·"'·i 
r\\\ 1U~I()A\,/ lt=IIILr\\\ ~lfll2111~S 11 ~ 
ElDORADO (1967) Howard Hawks, USA, color, 126 min. 
John Wayne proves that "faith can move mountains, but it can 'I beat a laster draw" when he and Robert Mitchum (two' 'has-beens") join up with a youthful amateur (James Caan) to defeat the outlaws, make the world salelc;»r democracy, and exemplify professionalism 
and male comradeship. 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission 
2

~ lr~u ~ 11~13 ltilr7prn $ · o o 

---~-----·· -~ "~ ·----~~~ 
The Observer Monday, November 15, 1982-page 4 
Innumerable benefits 

ROTCoffers much to students
\ 

By MICHOLE MADDEN drilled on basic soldier training and ly, for outstanding students, the News Staff leadership skills. Army may be willing to pay for During their last year, each stu­graduate, law, or medical school on The Army ROTC program has dent is assigned the rank ofan officer a year for year commitment basis. 
many opportunities to offer students and a duty assignment, for example That is, for every year financed,both during and after their educa­recreation officer. 
there is an additional year ofservice.
tion at Notre Dame, according to Upon graduaton from Notre Mike Moyer, Cadet Recruiting Of­two officers in the program. Dame, students have a number of ficer, expressed concern that manyBill Hennessey, Cadet Public Af­options. They may choose to go feel the ROTC program is not in line fairs Officer, noted that many stu· directly into the Army as second with their Catholic values. He main-
dents have the misconception that lieutenants to serve their commit­the Army cannot be compatible with ment time. tains, however, that students should their choice ofcareer. He stated that Another option is to apply for an realize that involving themselves in within the Army, there is ample op­educational delay for which their the Army provides an excellent op­portunity to incorporate any degree. commitment time is delayed while portunity to incorporate their Chris­
Hennessey said that the benefits thev continue their education. Final-tian views. ofROTC are innumerable, providing not only educational and monetary incentives, but also a chance to serve and protect our country in its 

BoardofGovernance 
times ofneed. For those on four year scholar­ships, the ROTC program finances 


discusses Oxfamfast 
much of their education -tuition, laboratory expenses, books, and a By CANDACE GRIFFIN begin today at 12:30, and par­$I00 monthly allowance -in News Staff ticipants will work at a South Bend return for a four year commitment soup kitchen. Tomorrow, par­upon graduation. Over 800 students have signed up ticipants will venture to Portage 
The first two years of education for the Oxfam fast, a world hunger Manor Retirement Home. On Wed­are obligation free if the recipient fast to be held this week at Saint nesday a reception for housekeep­chooses not to stay in the full four Mary's. The fast and other upcoming ing is planned at the Saint Mary's years, Hennessey said, and this op­events were discussed at last night's clubhouse at 2:30. tion is open through the beginning Board ofGovernance meeting. The Board also announced that ofthe junior year. The Oxfam Fast will begin this the Alcohol Education Council had a 
Freshmen in the program are re­week at 9:30 p.m. Weds., Nov. 17 meeting last week in which they quired to take one ROTC class each and continue through 9:30 p.m. restated their goal of inspiring week, excusing them from the uni­Thursday. The fast will net over responsible student drinking. Both versity P.E. requirement. During the S I 000 for Oxfam America, a non­school policy and Indiana legal sophomore, junior and senior years, profit agency working in 17-drinking age attest to the necessity two and three credit courses and countries. Several activities are of controlling students' use of al­drills are part of the ROTC cur­planned for the day of the Fast and cohol. The Board plans activities riculum. will be announced to the par­which support these views. 
The summer following junior ticipants. Finally, the Board stated a few year, ROTC students complete a six The Board also discussed Service reminders ofcomingevents. Madon­week Advanced Training camp at Week which is sponsored by the na Night, the traditional Big Sis­Fort Riley in Kansas. There they are Senior Class. Service Week events ter/Little Sister event, will be held 




Fast ... Free Ir---------------,
Delivery 1 Only 1I 
; $6.99 ; 
Call us. I Good Mondays Only... I 
I Only $6.99 for a 16" Htem ;
277-2151 pizza plus 4 Colas (a $2.19 
1835 South Bend Ave. value). Tax not included. One coupon per pizza. ; 
Throbbing head? Free 30 minute pizza Expires: 1 2/31 /82
} 
Quaking body? Has delivery and 10 minute Fast, Free Delivery
Monday dealt another pick· up service. 

1835 South Bend Ave.
crushing blow? Revive 
Phone: 277·2151
yourself with a well· Hours: rounded meal from 

11 :00 • 1 :00 Sun.· Thurs. 
Dominds Pizza We'll help 11 :00 • 2:00 Fri. & Sat. smooth the wrinkles out of your day. · Our drivers carry less 
than $10.00. ©1982 Domino's Pizza, Inc. Limited delivery area. 






11®~,.,~
L••••••••••••••-~ 
..............~................................~-.-' APME .. 
Nov. 21 in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Sign-ups for the Turkey Trot end 
Friday in Angela. The run will be 
held next Monday. 
The Bookstore is asking for sug­gestions for items to be carried in next year's new store, which will be located in the renovated old library. 
Observer 
correctt-on• 
In last Monday's Obseroer, the ar­ticle "Banker focuses on effects of Reaganomics," failed to mention that the presentation was one in a series entitled, The Financiallnstitu­tion Series. The series was organized by the students in the Finance Club. Also, the Observer reported that the speaker received a plaque of ap­preciation from Ellery Lindquist when in fact it was presented by Kathy Findling, president of the Finance Club. Lindquist is the chair­man of the Series. The Observer regrets the error. 
r-·coMPIEfE--~ 
i BEAUTY il SERVICE i 
~FASHION ~ i FLAIR ~ I BEAUTY~ 
1


l~'SALON
i 11 
:1 , \ *REDKIN ~ 

i . _ , :: SCIENTIFIC ~ ~HAIR CARE CENTER~ ~ Precision Cutting, Perms, ~ 
~ Correcting Hair Coloring i 
\ Next to Cira's Restaurant i ~ Evenings by Appt. ~ 
~ 2009 Miami ~ 
\ 288.0733 i 
......,........,.__............ 
~..,... 


Monday, November 15, 1982-page 5
The Observer 
Grief-stricken 

Begin leaves US after wife's death 
JERUSALEM (AP) -A grief· suspected. The blast levekd the respiratory problems and had been stricken Prime Minister Menachem seven-story building and killed 75 Is· hospitalized for five weeks. Hospital Begin rushed home from the United 
raelis and 14 Arabs. spokeswoman Marg<Llit Toledano States yesterday after his wife of 43 The solemn Israeli mood 2lready said Mrs. Begin suffered "sudden years died while being treated at a had caused Begin to cancel enter­cardiac arrest" and died at I :30 a.m. Jerusalem hospital. tainment events during his ap· yesterday (6:30 p.m. EST saturday). Israelis, entering official mourn· pearance before a I n~ Angeles The 69-year-old prime minister 
ing for their dead in the Tyre, Jewish group late Saturday. cut short his planned 10-day Lebanon, blast at Israeli military Then he received word that his American trip, which was to have in· headquarters last week, were told by wife, Aliza, had died in Jeru!.alem's eluded talks with President Reagan the Cabinet that the explosion was Hadassah Hospital. Mrs. Begin, 62, on Lebanon and the Middle East 
accidental, not sabotage as had been had a long history of asthma and peace process, and boarded his Is· raeli air force Boeing 707 for the long flight home. 
The Begins were very close, and an Israel Radio reporter traveling


First Lady chooses 
with the prime minister quoted him as saying, "I shouldn't have left her." Asecretary at the Israeli consulate

helicopter over car 
in Los Angeles, Naomi Levi, said Begin would seclude himself from WASHINGTON (AP) -Nancy There is some question as to 
the news media to face his Reagan used helicopters from the whether a first lady, who is not "enormous personal loss." presidential fleet on three occasions elected -and has no constitutional In Washington, assistant White 
when she traveled alone to Camp duties, is entitled to taxpayer· House press secretary Mark Wein· David, Md., at a cost to taxpayers of subsidized helicopters for solo jour­berg said yesterday that President $3, II0, White House records show. neys, especially for purely p•~rsonal, Reagan telephoned the prime minis­
As a matter of practice, first ladies non-official trips. ter to express "his d<::ep sympathy" rarely use helicopters when they are Mrs. Reagan's press se-cretary, Saturday night before Begin left Los Sheila Tate, said the first lady did not Angeles. Reagan also has since sent a
traveling solo, even on official trips. Instead of making the journey by conduct official business a1: Camp personal note of condolence, the 
car, which takes about 90 minutes, David on the three occasions she content of which would remain the first lady took a helicopter round flew there alone. private, the spokesman said. trip to inspect the presidential But Mrs. Tate sought to extend to The prime minister will observe 
retreat in the Catoctin Mountains for the first lady the presumption that the traditional Jewish mourning Dancers from Abiogenesis performed to Frank Sinatra's "New a1I of her activities, even spending a period of seven days after his wife's 
the first time on Jan. 29, 1981. She York, New York"yesterday in the LaFortune Ballroom. Abiogenesis
relaxing weekend at Camp David funeral, which is to be held this after· 
was accompanied by her Los An· is a student-run dance organization consistingprimarily ofmem­
with her husband, were somehow noon. Reporters W(:re told Mrs.
geles decorator, Ted Graber. bers ofthe Notre £?arne-Saint Mary's community. (Photo by Diana
official. "I suppose everything they Begin will be buried on the Mount of
A one-way helicopter trip to the Butler)
do is somewhat official," she said. Olives in the Arab sector ofisolated camp, about 60 miles from That is true for the presid<:nt. The Jerusalem which Israel captured inthe nation's capital, takes 35 minutes Justice Department considers all of the 1967 Middle East War. 
and costs taxpayers 5777.72. 
his activities to be either official or The Begin family's grief was mul·That figure is based on an operat· 
political since he is commander-in· tiplied around the country yester­ing cost, provided by the White chiefand responsible for national af. day as 50 families buried sons andHouse, of S I ,3:'>4 per hour for the fairs 24 hours a day and so never husbands killed in Tyre. 
VIP marine helicopters that feature The ordered a of 
clftt?lfl()()fl§ flt?t?l
really is "off-duty." Cabinet daytwo airline-style upholstered chairs 
mourning starting at sundown yes­
facing each other, sofa-like banks of Richard Hauser, a lawyer in the 
terday and a minute of silence at I 0 
White House counsel's office, told The Associated Press th~.t Mrs. 

seats on either side, and a bar. a.m. today. If yes, Ihe ObserYe~ wants you.
Mrs. Reagan made one-way 
Although the army initially
Reagan would be expected to reim·

helicopter trips last Sept. I 0 and blamed a car bomb for the blast last 
burse the government for th(: cost of

Oct. 29. Both times she was meeting Thursday, Energy Minister Yitzhak
her helicopter travel ifher activities

her husband, who had flown a Modai said after yesterday's Cabinet 
were deemed "clearly personal or

separate VIP helicopter to Camp meeting that the army now said the We need a Day Editor. 
political."

David from Andrews Air Force Base explosion was accidental and following out-of-town trips. Hauser also appeared to be trying "certainly not a sabotage action." This is a paid position
On all three occasions, the presi· to extend to the first lady the The cause of the blast was still un­dent's wife boarded the helicopter presumption that all of her activities clear, although news reports said it at the Pentagon, rather than the were official when he said he did not might have been from leaky White House South Lawn. Only the consider the three instances when cooking-gas cannisters at the president -or special guests on Mrs. Reagan used the helicopters military headquarters. Israel rare occasions -depart from the alone to be eitherclearly personal or invaded Lebanon on June 6 to rout Call Tim at 239 White House. political. Palestinian guerillas. 
-~---------------~­
Vietnamveteranshear prayers 1 MINORITY OPPORTUNITIEs l 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Under in Vietnam when half a million jackets at the cathedral, spon· I COMMITEE I the soaring arches of the Washing· American troops were there. Bunker taneous rituals of remembrance I university ofT exas School of law I lOll Cathedral, Vietnam veterans left in 1973, six weeks aJfter the took place at the black granite walls I will be recruiting students on campus I 
heard prayers yesterday that the departure of U.S. forces during a ofthe Vietnam Veterans Memorial. reconciliation they seek can lead to negotiated withdrawal that·t:nded in The memorial, built at the insis· I Tuesday, November 16. 9:00a.m. I an end ofwar. a Communist takeover. tence of Vietnam veterans, was ded· 
Among the congregants was Am· While well-dressed Was-icated Saturday following a I For further information, I bassador Ellsworth Bunker, 88, who hingtonians prayed alongside visit· triumphant veterans' parade down \ contact: Career &Placement Office 239-5200 I was America's chief representative ing Vietnam veterans in frayed field Constitution Avenue. ~--------------' 
The parade, the veterans said, gave them what they wanted -ana· tion's ceremonial gratitude for their 

, , ,Rive~ra •
sacrifices no matter how divisive and futile the cause may have been. 

: CORBY'S : 
On this blustery day, thousands of
Bena 1ribune and sever~Ll local

continuedfrom page 1 
people came to the wall. Veterans
radio stations as well as with Theob­

from many places returned one last
in order to win his case since no server. "By spreading the word (to 
time before heading for home.
clear ground exists." Notre Dame), I hope that a student 
Rivera admitted that the statute gro•Jp might be formed, altltlough I At the base of the walls, bearing "might have made sense in the admit it's awfully hard to get things 57,939 names ofAmericans who did 1930's. It was set up to protect rolling during a weeklong visit," he not return from Vietnam, flowers, drivers from being sued by said. flags and burning _candles had been hitchhikers and to help financially Rivera said that he's planning to placed in tribute to those who died. 
the young insurance companies." start a coalition to repeal the law as 
At one place, someone had leaned
well as initiating the widespread dis·

Rivera commented, however, the a large tinted photograph against the
tribution of newsletters in the area.

law is now obsolete because it only wall. It showed an unsmiling GI 

Gtenades
He added that State Senator Joe:: 

serves "to help the insurance com· standing outside his pup tent, a dog
Zakas has already voiced his support

panics get off cheaply." He noted on a leash at his side. 
toward repealing the law in the Statethat there are only five states with Senate. 

Leaders of the Vietnam Veterans the law on the book, and "Indiana is "Unfortunately, the law is not 


for Jl.OO
Memorial Fund, which raised S7 mil· 
the only one that holds it firmly." general knowledge right now," said 
lion to build the monument, par­
Rivera's home state of California Rivera. "Passengers ignorantly 
ticipated in the cathedral service. ruled the law unconstitutional over assume the responsibility of driving 
20 years ago. with the driver... Ifwe're going to be The sermon was preached oy 
:GO IRISH, : 
Rivera's ongoing effort to over· giving up our right (toward in· Theodore H. Evans Jr., who was an tum the Guest Act prompted him to surance coverage), let us know Episcopal priest in Saigon and arrange interviews with the South we're doing so." Phnom Penh from 1964 to 1967. : BOmB AIR FORCEI : 




----·-------~---­
-------------·-----· 
The Observer Monday, November 15, 1982 -page 6 

A Notre Dame art professor (left) takes a break from construct­ing a horseshoe-shaped sculpture on the quad between the MemorialLibraryand the OldFieldhouse. (Photo byDiana Butler)

:. 
MARNIE (1964) 
Allred Hitchcock, USA, color, 130 min. sean Connery falls in love with Tippi Hedren because she is a thief·· not in spite of it··in this romance turned family melodrama in which the most suspicious events are psychic disturbances·· phobia, 
repression, fetishism, and childhood trauma. 
Admission "'-Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum $2.00_., 

lr~u ~ 11 ~13 llllr 

P9TTSBURGH C.£UB THAKKSG9U9KG 'BUS S9GK-U'PS KtOK. Hew. 1~. 7~.Ht. .CAFORTUKe .C9TT.Ce THeATeR 
&m• eeaueJto (cce)aHtL s~ttc (Hety OaeM) Wed., Kcw. 24 at lp.Mt. B~ wilf rre1urut fa KV/SHlC ~ 'Pi&butujt ~T~ 
Swulay. ~ 28. at I~-­
• RmuuL T'lip fMe $45 • OMe Way 'Ffllle $29 'PayMU!IfliiUI6t beMUlde iK ~ atfiHte oh ~etwafimt 
R~elllllJfim0 Me brutemtte. ~t &0100 ---~--o~tim0= eaee 'BIIUut at 1143 


SPECIAl STUDENT RATES AVAilABlE FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK on Ten Day Rentals 


HERTZ 
These rates are non·discountable. 
Cars must be returned to renting 
location. 
Rates starting at $159 and are available until 
Nov. 19. 1982. 
Lugar says 

Pipeline restrictions fall short 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The U.S­European agreement on trade restrictions against the Soviet Union is a triumph for the administration but falls short ofthe objectives Presi­dent Reagan had when he imposed sanctions against the Soviet pipeline, Sen. Richard Lugar, R-Ind., said yes­terday. 
"I think the president's intended objective was perhaps more am­bitious than the one he has realized," said Lugar, a member of the Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee on European affairs. 
"It probably came clear that the pipeline is going to get built, that people are going to ship things to the pipeline, that there would be severe losses for allies and for us if we fail to come to that recognition," Lugar said on CBS' "Face the Nation" program. "Maybe the president came to that recognition." 
Asked if the agreement amounted to a retreat or a vehicle for the United States to back out ofa policy that it could not sustain alone, Lugar said that would be an "unfair charac­terization." 
"It seems to me that the president came to the logical conclusion that what we are after is allied unity, that we ought to be taking a look at how we are going to get more energy into Western Europe ... and that this is probably as good a time as any," Lugar said. 
The administration ordered U.S. companies and their foreign af­filiates not to aid the pipeline project to demonstrate U.S. concern over what the administration al­leged was Soviet complicity in the Polish crackdown on the independ­ent labor movement Solidarity. The administration also said it feared Western Europe would become too dependent on Soviet energy sources and the Soviets would benefit finan­cially from the pipeline construc­tion. 
Reagan said Saturday he was dropping the trade sanctions citing "substantial agreement" with in­dustrialized U.S. allies on a "plan of 
continuedfrom page 1 
Though Shultz declined to spec­ulate on what foreign policy Andropov might follow, he said the new Soviet leader's Friday remarks did not signal a shift by the Kremlin. 
"'The steady, relentless buildup of Soviet military capacity has, in ef­fect, forced the United States after quite a period of not pushing its defense establishment forward powerfully, to look to our defenses and our strength," Shultz said. 
He said he was carrying no special message from President Reagan to Soviet leaders, other than a restate­ment of U.S. policy. 
"I don't think that the message is complicated," Shultz said. "We arc realists, we will stay that way. We are strong. We will stay that way. We're action" on strategic aspects vf East­West trade. 

The breadth of the plan appeared to be cast somewhat in doubt, however, when the French said shortly after the Reagan announce­ment they were "not a party" to the agreement. 
Lugar said the agreement was a tri­umph for the administration "in the sense that we at least stood our ground. We had indicated we were serious with regard to the Soviet problem. We have tried to gain some understanding with our allies... and have been successful with most but not with all." 
Asked what the agreement ac­complished, Lugar said "the thought that we are simply not going to give things away to the Soviet Union and that we felt that was occuring with the concessions on interest rates on the pipeline." 
He said France "has some peculiar economic problems and cir­cumstances of its own," including the need to borrow to shore up the economy, efti>rts to meet campaign pledges of President Francois Mit­terand, unemployment and a reces­sion, "which have led the French to be very testy." 
On another matter, Lugar said "there will need to be cuts" in defense spending and that those cuts probably will be made "'through a consensus of the president's stat( the president himself and the con­gressional leaders." 

Reagan, Chancellor discuss relationship 
WASHINGTON (AP) -West security is linked to the United German Chancellor Helmut Kohl States. arrived here yesterday for an official "For us, the Federal Republic of visit a day after President Reagan Germany, the presence ofAmerican 
gave German-American relations a soldiers in the Federal Republic and major boost with his announcement in Berlin is of vital necessity. The of an end to sanctions against the peace and freedom of our land in Soviet gas pipeline. recent decades has been protected 
Reagan and Kohl plan several through the North Atlantic Treaty hours of discussions today that will Organization, and in NATO the most center on the implications of the important partner is the United leadership change in the Soviet Un­States ofAmerica. 
ion and Reagan's decision to lift "Therefore, it is quite obvious that sanctions against companies par­we must be especially cautious and ticipating in the Soviet pipeline careful with this partnership and this project. The sanctions had been a friendship. That is important for all sore point in relations between of us in Europe; and for us, the Ger­Bonn and Washington. mans in the divided German father­
Reagan is expected to give a warm land, it is especially important.'. welome to Kohl, who vowed shortly Kohl is considered more after taking office last month "to lead ideologically in tune with Washing­the German-American relationship ton than was his Social Democratic out of the twilight zone and confirm predecessor, Helmut Schmidt. and stabilize the friendship." Kohl's Christian Democratic llnion 
In an interview with West Ger­is far more unified in its support for man television shortly before he left, NATO's nuclear polices than were Kohl emphasized that his country's the Social Democrats. 
\ 
··································································: 
DISCOUNT SAVINGS 
CONTACT LENSES 
Replacements Or Spare Eye Contact's low annual membership fee of $12.50 ent1tles you to obta1n replacement or additional NAME BRAND soft, hard, or spec1ally lenses and accessory care products 
al a substantial sa11<11gs soft lenses tregular) $24.95 each hard lenses (regular) $14.95 each accord1ng to your doctors preswpl•on. 1n sealed conla•ners w11h prompt serv•ce and a money-back guarantee 
Jom now and rece1ve an eye care gilt pack and our accessory poce l1st DON'T WAIT, CALL TODAY FOR IMMEDIATE SERVICE 1 800 255-2020 (Toll Free) VISA. MASTERCARD or COO orders accep1eo 
Fam1ly membersh•p tee dis~ount ava•labie Everythmg you II need'" replacement contac11enses --Except the h1gn cos1 -­
EYE CONT1\.CT 
P.O. Box 7770 ShawnM Mission. KS 66207
'..................................................................: 
• • • Shultz 
constructive and we are ..::ady to solve problems and will continue to be ready to do so, ready to respond. And if that takes place, then the world can be better for everyone." 
Tru.: ··\J\ •••:< c.: !c:r,Li;" :1 :" ::or \'<.~r 

,.;&llh h 1'{ Ill 
pre... ldt ........ , . • :'' ,,, c.:r ful <>11:\.:;.· ,; :1 , jl , /i!IIC..'\ .... death. 
Shultz blamed East-West tension on a Soviet military buildup and the imposition of martial law in Poland last December. Reagan would welcome a summit with the new Soviet leadership, Shultz said, "only if it can be a constructive one and have an outcome." 
Delegations from more than 40 nations were arriving in Moscow to pay last respects to Brezhnev. Party leaders from all Soviet bloc states were to attend the funeral. 
The foreign dignitaries joined tens of thousands of Soviet citizens who have filed past Brezhnev's flower-adorned open casket since Friday. Troops and police sealed off city center adjacent to the Kremlin, in the tightest security the capital has seen since the death of Josef Stalin in 1953. 
State-run radio and television, which suspended regular program­ming when Brezhnev died, con­tinued to play mournful music throughout the weekend. 

Television interrupted a concert to show Andropov and other mem­bers ofthe ruling Politburo standing as honor guards beside Brezhnev's body and then consoling Brezhnev's 74-year-old widow, Viktoria, and other relatives. 
Lines of mourners snaked through downtown, past buildings hung with red banners and black pennants. Several large posters of Brezhnev scattered throughout the city were adorned with red and black bunting, the traditional colors for a fallen Communist leader. 
Shultz flew to Moscow in an Air Force Boeing 707, which landed at Sheremetevo-1 Airport at midday in chilly, cloudy weather. He was welcomed by Hartman, Soviet First Deputy Foreign Minister Georgi Kornienko and Viktor Komplektov, chiefofthe Soviet Foreign Ministry's American desk. 
Accompanying Shultz were 
Richard Burt, assistant secretary of 
state for European affairs, and State 
Department spokesman john 
Hughes. 

Monday, November 15, 1982 -page 7





Editorials 

P.O. Box Q/Realities of artificial contraception 
JJ.,· I!/;~,·,I o 

'ni\l'f'''Y of Noire n.lmc du Lit'• .lnd SJIOI M.lry·, ( olk,I!C II doe~ Pol llt\l'"-lfll) rdil'd the poll< II'' of the Jdrnilll,frJIIOit of c1thn lll~litUIIO!l The new'" report cd ·" .h<UfJit'i\' J!ld .1\ Ohjt\11\cl)· .1' j'lh'ihlt-. hbtOfiJi< fl'J'fl'\t'nt the op1~11011 Ol .1 m.qor1ty of the hhtor1Jl Bo.lf,l Co.tunt·nf.lfll''· upin1om .lrl<llettcr' .1rt· the ,-,cw, of then .1uthor' ( olt1rnn Sf'J<t' "JIJd.tblt-''' .dl mcmhcr, ot the <Oilllllunlly. JnJ the frt"t: exprc,s1on ol ".lfY111g opm1ons on c.lmpu>. through l.ctter:.. l> encoungrJ. 
P.O.Hm~ Q. Notn· Danw. IN -16';';(1 (21 1)) 2_N-';50.~ 
ttPeace Mass'' was no Mass 
Last Thursday, I attended the regular 11:30 
a.m. service at Sacred Heart Church to dis­cover that it was a special "Mass for Peace," celebrated by Fr. Hesburgh, along with other Notre Dame clergy. The event was neither a Mass, nor a gesture for peace, and the atmos­phere actually inhibited an attitude of reverence among the congregation. 
Karen Miranda 
Guest Columnist 
First of all, WSBT Channel 22 TV cameras were set up on both the altar and lector stands. In addition, a camera man walked around the church during the service, lilming people as they prayed; this caused many people to be openly uncomfortable. Since when is the worship ofGod a media event? 
I am not attacking WSBT; having myself been involved with journalism and the media, I understand that it is the professional ethic of a reporter to go as far as is permitted to "get the story." In this case, Jay Kane of Informa­tion Services verified that there is an agree­ment between WSBT and Notre Dame that the station can film anywhere on campus, includ­ing Sacred Heart Church, provided it causes no disturbance. 
The mere presence of the cameras inside the church was a disturbance, and I must remind WSBT and their reporter on the story, Rebecca Marr, that it was a religious sacra­ment that was taking place, and it was being held inside ofa sacred building. 
But the blame for this disrespect also goes to Information Services, the Administation, and Fr. Jenky, rector of Sacred Heart, for permitting the transformation ofthe Mass into a political/media event. 
Most clearly at fault was Fr. Hesburgh, who initiated this "Mass for Peace." It became ap­parent during his homily that there were other intentions for the Mass than the worship ofGod and the celebration ofpeace. 
Hesburgh outlined extensively the political activities and conferences concerning the nuclear freeze attempt, in which he is in· volved. His praise was not for God or humanity, but for public figures and "leaders qfthe world," a phrase he used repeatedly. 
Not once did he mention faith, the Gospel, or the intention for peace. His performance for the television camera was more of a lecture at a press conference than a homily. Fr. Hesburgh was not worshipping God during that speech; he was worshipping the attempts ofworld figures to solve the nuclear problem politically. 
At one point in the homily, he referred to Jimmy Carter's autobiography and a descrip­tion of a scene between Carter and Brezhnev after a Salt conference in Vienna. The Russian leader put his hand on Carter's shoulder and said, "If we don't do something about this. God will never forgive us." Then Hesburgh commented about how amazing those words were, coming from a communist. 
I walked out of the church during this service; it was not a Mass; it was an event for the purposes of information and exposure. What amazed me the most was the congrega· tion's tolerance and even welcoming of this atmosphere for a holy service. 
What should a Mass be? How are we to express our reverence during such a ceremony? 
These are the questions I pose to the com­munity; the answers will greatly influence the nature ofour faith. 
they may seem, these "barrier" devices are free of physical hazards and effectively prevent -not terminate -the process of conception. (The distinction just made is an important one, because the Church does not currently recognize it in her teaching, condemning contraception and abortion in the same breath and with equal fervor -a rather odd situation since it seems eminenty plain that preventing an unwanted preg­nancy is far preferable to destroying one that has already begun.) 
The Church, at any rate, does not approve of diaphragms and condoms, despite their lesser moral implications outlined above. This stance derives from the concept of sexual union in Christian marriage as a sym­bol of Christ's union with the Church, and the total, unstinting giving between the spouses is seen as reflective oftheir ultimate and eternal joining with God. Beautiful and uplifting as this idea certainly is, it unfor­tunately constitutes an example oftheology that looks good on paper, but suffers in the translation to real human situations. 
The promulgation of the encyclical Humanae Vita in 1968 occasioned uproar, debate, and for many Catholic couples, searing dilemmas. Some abandoned the sacraments because the could not reconcile 
receiving Communion with taking the Pill, yet they absolutely could not afford, or physically risk, an eighth or tenth child. Nowadays, the issue has become far less agonizing. Many young married Catholics, believing the quality and the not the quan­tity of their family to be the more important factor, make an informed and serious choice of an artificial contraceptive and see no reason why that choice should bar them 
from full participation in the Church. 
And in that thinking, they are supported by their confessors, many of whom advise that birth control is a personal decision 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief. ...................... .Michael Monk .Umwging Editor.. .. .. Ryan Ver Berkmoes Executiz•e News Editor. .. .. ~t S.UCEwcutiz•e Editor ......... Margaret Fosmoe .\ports Editor ...... Chris Needles Editorials Editor ....................... Paul McGinn Features Editor .. . ........... Tari Brown Photo Et!tt<1r ............ ...Rachel Blount belonging solely to the married pair, l<l whom God has given free will and intc:l· ligence, as well as the special graces of the Sacrament of Marriage, to search their con­sciences and hearts for their own right 
answer. 
It is clear, then, that a wide discrepancy exists between the Church's offcial stand and the practices of a great many married Catholics, a gap which the Church must address in the not-too-distant future if her authority and credibility in this matter are not to be completely lost. Should we accept the Church's current position in "respectful and obedient consideration," as ProfSmith suggests? On the contrary, Catholic clergy and laity alike should urge the hierarchy to revise_its outmoded dictum in favor ofcom­passion and acknowledgement of modern sociological and economic realities. 
Those couples who accept the burdens of natural family planning in order to fulfill the letter ofthe law deserve our admiration, just as we revere Mother Teresa as a paragon of Christian virtue made flesh. Yet however much we praise that incredible woman's work, the majority ofus would balk at pluck­ing diseased and lice-ridden beggars out of the Calcutta gutters ourselves. Does that mean we are sinners, because we cannot match Mother Teresa's charity? Does God love us less because we are not all capable of her heroism? So it should be with the issue of contraception. 
Let us admire the champions of rhythm and abstinence, but let us not condemn those of us who, honestly admitting our human limitations and imperfection, make with our God-given reason reflective deci­sions in order that we do not become the careless or unworthy trustees of His most awesome gift, that of new human life. 
(Name withheld upon request) 
Classof'77 

Department Managers 
Business Manager .............................Tom· Aiello Controller .............................................Eric' Schulz Advertising Manager.......................Chrio; Owen Production Manager..................Maura \lurphy Circulation Manager .......................... Ray lnglin Systems Manager ........................... Bruce Oakley 
Founded November 3,1966 

••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••4. 
Monday, November 15, 1982 -page 8
~SttOWCfiSE 

photos by Pete Laches 
T oud and hard music was 'he or­.l.Aer of the evening Saturday when Billy Squier and Nazareth jammed to a packed crowd at the ACC. 
The British hard rock band Nazareth took the stage first and by the crowd's reaction one may have thought they were the headliners. 
VicSciulli 
concert review 
Lead singer Dan McCafferty and the band's three guitarists roared through songs like "Telegram," studio track but McCafferty failed in his attempt to capture the song's emotions live. 
By the end ofthe band's II song set, every heavy metal cliche ­loud music, inaudible lyrics, a screaming lead singer, extended solos, and a song about a sexual ex­perience had been seen. But for the 8,000 or so fans who crowded the floor and seats, it was just what they ordered. 
The roaring of motorcycles sig­nalled the beginning of Billy Squier's hit "Everybody Wants You," exciting the crowd to a level which never let up during the concert. Squier's concert plan was simple : take few musical risks, play fast, upbeat songs which are the audience into screaming. "I Need You" was apparently more than one girl could handle, making a quick jump on stage to get a closer look at Squier. 
Squier's set consisted mainly of songs from Don'tSayNo andEmo­tions in Motion, his latest album. Only one song from Tale of the Tape, his first album which was for 
the  most  part  ignored  by  the  
record  buying  audience,  was  
played.  

No individual distinguished himself as a musician during the show. Squier spent relatively little time himselfon the guitar and only on a few guitar licks during "Too Daze Gone" did the audience get to see some individual musical 

photos by Tom White 
audience definitely looked like they were enjoying themselves. "Thanks a lot, see you later," was hardly the end ofthe show and the audience knew it. Squier returned for two encores, powering his way through a sizzling version of "The Stroke" and a 50's sounding "Keep Me Satisfied," ending the show on the same hot note that he had started it with. 
The concert was the third major concert at the ACC in eight days. Seats were removed from the floor and replaced by a festival floor ar­rangement, a rather unusual move considering that both acts have a large following and that festival ar­rangements are usually conducive to roudy behavior in the struggle 
~e playbill ofAppearing Nightly
.1 contains this brief biography of Lily Tomlin: "probably the best white cheerleader Detroit ever saw. Unfortunately her career ended when she graduated." While her careeras a cheerleader may be over, Ms. Tomlin's talents as a stage and 
Patrick mulligan 

comedy review 
screen performer indicate that her career as a comedienne has a long future ahead ofit. That prediction would probably be endorsed by anyone who saw her performance in Appearing Nightly last Saturday night at the O'Laughlin A1,1ditorium. Playing before a small but enthusias­tic audience Ms. Tomlin displayed an intensity and professionalism which had the crowd on its feet for several minutes at the end ofthe show. It was, on the whole, an ex­traordinarily entertaining evening. 
The show began with the com­edienne recounting her life's obsession -waitressing at Howard johnson's. From the outset one could sense a good rapport between performer and audience; this feeling 
~ere have been men who have 

1 survived wars, fighting battle af­ter battle on the terrain offoreign lands, knowing too well that their lives could end at any time. There have been people who have made it through airplane, ship, and train dis­asters though all odds seemed 
marc Ramirez 

features 
against them. And there have been 
those who have come out alive after 
two semesters of Emil, braving the 
weekly terror ofthe seven-point 
quiz. 
I know how they feel. As what's 
left ofme sits here retaking inven­

tory on my blessings, I think ofhow 
lucky I am to be here at all. 
I barely escaped with my life. I 

have become part ofa new chapter 
in the annals ofthe gruelling mis­
fortunes of mankind. Civil War. 
Andrea Doria. Double Emil. And 
now ... Pep Rally. 

I had finally decided to make the 
trek to Stepan Center so that I could 
catch the last football pep rally ofthe 
n spite offootball traffic andIcold temperatures, approximately 60 people attended openingconcert ofAbiogenesis Dance Collective. While spirits and good will ran high, the group, which was "under con­struction," possessed some techni­cal insufficiencies, blurring the images ofsome dances. 
Holly Searer 

dance review 
The concert opened with "Forms," a body (and board) sculpture, choreographed by the ar­tistic director, Angela Allyn Adam­son, and danced by the whole company. In silence and costumed in black body suits, the dancers, moved like earthly forms oftrees, mountains, streams, and sky. It 

•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••j•••••••••••••o••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
The Observer Fvatu1res Section 
Monday, November 15, 1982 -page 9 
mlin nppents nightly nc)w 
as confirmed by Tomlin's candor parents, "fud and Marie." In this human concerns with such warmth 

n acknowledging both the sparse piece the couple's daughter is and sensitivity. 
rowd and the costly ticket prices. driven to despair by her parents' Nowhere was this more evident 
'Ifall the world's a stage how come inane discussion about a slice of than in Ms. Tomlin's study of"Rick" 
·o many people have to pay to get cake. Moving from one character to who " ...comes to the stage direct 
n?" After these introductory ob­another with surprising eas.e, the from his Sparklett's bottled-water 
ervations there followed a series of first halfofthe show more than any­route." Rick likes his job "cause it 
'Did you know ...?" one-liners. thing demonstrated Ms. Tomlin'sex-. gets me outdoors and into a lot of 
"Did you know that someday bean tensive skills as a physical ladies houses."Jane Wagner, listed 

agchairs will be antiques?") Finally comedienne. as the writer and director of the 
he opening monologue concluded The second hour ofthe show show, deserves a lot ofcn:dit for the 
ith some remarks on the necessity began with Ms. Tomlin trying out marvelous dialogue between Rick 
f television comercials for the some new jokes on the audience. and an imaginary bartender named 
modern American. "!fit weren't for ''I'm going to try some new material "Chip." Loneliness and false hopes 
ommercials people would wander out ... I want to get something out protrude from behind Rick's macho 
around the store aimlessly." ofcoming to South Bend." The facade, yet in spit~ ofthe absurdity 
The next hour or so consisted ofa audience's reaction suggested that of his position he maintains a sort of review ofMs. Tomlin's more familiar the new material needed a bit mor•e Chekovian hopefulness. "Rick's pet characters, including the telephone polish, though some one-liners peeve is 'that the Dating Game went operator ofLaugh-In fame; Edith struck a chord. ("Don't you long for offbefore I got a crack at it. I was Anne, a precocious yet guileless the good old days of repression?") gonna take out all three chicks at 
child; and Crystal, "the first quad­As the second halfprogressed, once."' riplegic to ever successfully com­however, a more serious tone came The show concluded with an plete a hang gliding attempt to bear on many ofthe sketches. entreaty from "Sister BQQgie following an earlier unsuccessful try Generally this meant fewer but _. Woman" for everyone to "invite made last year in New York." more complete vignettes which Boogie into your heart." Ms. Tom­Throughout the first halfofthe show relied more on the pathos ofthe lin's dervish physical gestures ex­what impressed one most was Ms. situation than any punchline or prat­hibited the "abandon, forgiveness, Tomlin's range ofvocal inflection, fall. In one lengthy segment Ms. and divin' in " which distinguishes her physical energy on the stage, and Tomlin chronicled the life of the Boogie sect from all others. Sis­the intelligent way in which she "Glenna, a child of the sixties," in ter Boogie'sfinal pronouncement ­pre&ented bet characters. Perhaps which everything from/ Love Lucy 
"I feel joyful" -certainly sums up the highlight ofthe first part, to the Vietnam War came under 
what most ofthe audience felt at the however, viras'u "biographical" scrutiny. Few performers today end of Ms. Tomlin's virtuouso per­sketch portraying Ms. Tomlin's could treat such a panorama of formance. 
Fighting the fighting irish 
year. 1 don't know why I went. I began to push and shove rheir way I feared for my life. Everyone had 
didn't know what I was in for. to the front. gone into a frenzy, even the veteran 
Someone told me that my heroine "That flag!" their leader said, alumni. People were jumping on my 
Lily Tomlin might happen to be pointing to an Irish flag waving up feet. Someone "1812-ed" me in the 
there, and so I made the fatal mistake ahead in the distance. "It's in the head. Someone else used me as alan­
ofheading toward what could have way! We have to move it! We have to ding pod on the way down from ! been the end of my career as a take it down!" somebody's shoulders. 
These were obviously the bad
human being. Dazed and confused, I tried to get guys, and I struggled in vain to halt 
1 
Five ofus left our dorm that cold up from the floor. Once 1had made it 
their advance upon the Irish flag. But 
to my knees, another little kid what could I accomplish, alone andNovember evening, armed with no­hurdled onto my shouldc:rs, knock­thing but our winter caps. As we ap­
unarmed? A second group came by, 
ing me offbalance again. I called it

proached Stepan Center we could and their leader claimed to be ac­
quits and crawled cautiously toward quainted with a certain "Joe" in the the exits. 
hear the cries and screams of 
hundreds ofpeople inside. The crowd. These men appeared to be I don't know how I made it, butthunderingRah, Rah, Rah! ofthe 
on my side, and I let them through somehow I did. When I heard the
cheerleaders echoed through the 
since they appeared to be also slight­
Victory March I knew everythingnight as we made our way in. 

ly intoxicated. was going to be okay. I stood justOnce in the building, we dis­
The bulk ofthe action seemed to 
outside the door and stuck out mycovered just exactly who was in­

be happening at the front ofthe 
tongue in one final act ofdefiance,volved in this confrontation. The 

crowd, and I strained my neck to 
and that's when the pep rallyIrish were fighting, and they were 

see. But a little kid wearing an Iri:;h 
ended ...

going to fight a bunch ofNittany 
hat and sitting atop someone's
Lions. I scolded myselffor forgetting 
shoulders blocked my view. When they found me they had to my machete, but otherwise at­
"Hey, you little traitor!" I shouted peel me offthe back ofthe door 
tempted to forge a path through the at the bottom ofmy lungs. "I can't along with an old piece ofchewed jungle ofpeople. Somehow I 
see! I can't see the cheerleaders! I gum that someone had left there became separated from my can't see Lily Tomlin!" long ago. I'm okay now, but the comrades, and thus had to continue The little traitor turned around memories ofthat fearful night in 
on my own. 
and stuck his tongue out at me. Stepan Center will terrorize me At last I could go no further, and Then I heard the 1812 Overtute forever. I didn't even get to see Lily so I stood in one place, waiting for and that's when I knew this was Tomlin. Pep Rally. I don't ever want the attack. I didn't have to wait long, serious. People were shouting,"Kill to go through that again. But I 
for soon the people behind me 
the Lions! Kill the Lions!" probably will. 
>ances undet consttucti~on 
I 
ments that were defined by a timing part ofthe performers, needed to be choreographed by NormaJohnson device seemed similar to each other. more specific in order to provide: a and music sung by Frank Sinatra. 
The design ofthe boards and the richer source ofinformation for This piece attempted at the pizzazzbodies provided some interesting movement material. Using only 
ofBroadway, but failed at precision moments. males limited the piece. Female and finesse. The piece was enjoyable "Murderer," choreographed by bodies could have provided 
at times, and embarrassing at others. Keith Madden, music by E. Varese, dynamic tension and contrast. "An American Dream," was interesting, but overdramatic. choreographed by Ms. Adamson,
"Flowform: Lyrical,"
The music seemed too strongfor the musical collage by Keith Madden
choreographed by Ms. Adamson,
movement presented. The contrast and Michael Villano, was filled with
music by Luc Ponty, saw a group of
offlexed arms ofthe men with images ofamericana. Sounds and 
women costumed in rose colored
curved and circular movement of dances evolved, disappeared, reap­
leotard and tights with scarves
the women was ofparticular inter­peared, exploded, fizzled and in
around their necks, moving smooth­
est. These arm patterns could have general, kept the audience guessing
ly and swiftly on and offthe perform­
been transferred to legs, whichwere as to what would happen next.
ing area They created images of
used sparingly throughout the Abiogenesis is a very exciting
wind and water, and appeared to ful­
group ofyoung people, dedicated todance. The dramatic theme was too 

fill the choreographer's idea offlow 
exploring movement and thecomplicated for such a short dance, 

form. The repetition ofthree 
theatre. Obviously, but modestlyand needed to be simplified and 

primary movements was very ef­
"under construction," the companylimited to one event. 

fective, and the music provided an 
pulled offa very enjoyable evening.

"Bugs," choreographed by Ms. appropriate atmosphere for the Dancers noted fur their perfor­
Adamson, music byJohn Cage, seen themes to evolve. The scarves 
mances are Toni Griffin, Stephen onstage last spring, had a new six complemented the movement, but 
Blaha, and John Zemar. The whole man cast created buglike images were merely decorative. cast deserves a hand for their without being too literal. The dance "New York, New York," also per­energies and dedication to the art of emed long. I:Sug imagery, on the formed last spring, was the dance. 

Squiet in motion 
G
uitarist Billy Squier emerged on the scene two years ago with the release ofTale ofThe Tape. Critically praised, the album did not have the "killer cut" which is so necessary for an album to even get airplay in today's tight radio station formats. 
Vic Sciulli 
record review 

The release and successof"The Stroke" from last year'sDon'tSay No was the turning point for Squier. The song's success generated a great deal ofpublic interest in Squier.1t spawned three hit singles as well as giving Squier precious airtime on FM stations. It also augured the success ofEmotions in Motion, Squier's latest album.Emotions continues the heavy, guitar-oriented sound ofhis previous two al­bums; departing little from the "party rock" sound that has become Squier's trademark. 
The rousing, roaring motorcycle sound of"Everybody Wants 
You" opens the album. The song is the newest addition to Squier's 
"party song" repertoire and judging by the airplay it is currently 
receiving, is bound to become a hit in the same tradition as "The 
Stroke," "My Kind of Lover" and "In The Dark." 
Squier, who penned all the album's lyrics is not a bad songwriter 
and he shows it on the title track. Like many ofthe songs, "Emotions'' 
is autobiographical and deals with the frustration ofthe demands 
and expectations that have been placed on him by his quick rise to 
the top. 

A syncopated drum and synthesizer sound gives the song a Car's 
like hint, making it even more danceable than most ofSquier's 
material. 

everybody knows you 
everybody snowsyou 
everybody needsyou...leadsyou... 
bleedsyou 
Squier sings the song with more than a hint ofspite. 
The title track continues in the album's theme ofbeingsucked in­
to and lost in life's fast lanes. The conflict between becoming a part 
ofthe mania or pullingout is a real one, with everyone dragging him 
in different directions. 

the voice sayyes-the mind say's no the voice in your ear saysgo-go-go 
OnLearn How to Live, it seems that Squier has learned the law of the jungle and how to survive in his world -team how to bend­learn how to break. 
As all ofhis songs, "Learn How to Live" is guitar influenced but a saxophone opening lends a jazzy influence to the song. 
"Keep Me Satisfied" is a play on 50's style rock and roll. Bob Seger's "Horizontal Bop" did the same kind ofthing several years ago. 
"She's a Runner" and "Catch 22" are two ofthe best songs on the record. Keyboardist Alan St. John adds a Tom Petty sounding in­fluence on the former, while his backup vocalists provide a gentle background which contrastsSquier's, who sounds as though he may be trying too hard. 
"Catch 22" has a country sound reminiscent oflater AHmann Brothers material. 
As the album progresses, one gets the strong impression that Squier's world is flying by at a blinding speed; on "In Your Eyes," he slows down enough to enjoy one oflife's more meaning things ­love. Accompanied only by his acoustic guitar and some light drum­ming and keyboards, Squierdelivers a half-convincing performance. (The song is a nice one and maybe someone outside ofthe rock world will redo it someday.) 
Squier coproduced and mixed the album but some outside help on production would have helped give the album a needed diver­sified sound. The band's three guitar, drum and keyboard line up is a familiar one in rock with the guitars dominating the sound. This has been true for all ofSquier's album's. St.John gets too little playing time on the album which is a disappointment since what he does contribute is a highlight to the album. 
Squier's song writing ability is a good foundation to build on in future albums. Audiences and record buyers have so far eaten up Squier'sstyle ofmusic. His heavy guitar sound, however, may benefit from some modification in the future to prevent repetion. Squier's few musical adventures onEmotions were well worth tt1e risk and 
are worthy ofpursuing in the future. 
----~-~------_.__---~ ----~----------~------~-------~--~ ---------------~------~-~----.­
The Observer Features Section 

photos by Diana Butler 
Production changes with SEASON 
I
t is appropriate that the Student Players dramatic production for this semester is openingas fall leads in­to winter, for the play is Robert Bolt'sA Man for all Seasons, the story ofSir Thomas More's conflicts with Henry VIII at the time ofthe reformation ofthe Church in England. 
The conflict developed from the king's dissatisfacton with his current wife, Catherine ofAragon, and his desire to marry his mistress, Anne Boleyn. The king's desire stemmed from severalsocio-political factors, but the main thrust behind hisdivorce was the fact that Cat­herine had proven unable to provide an heir for the English throne. 
SirThomas More, well-known as an intellectual and a Churchman as well as being the king's chancellor, would not support the king's divorce or the separation ofthe English Church from Rome which it precipitated. 
The plot of the play concerns More's efforts to main­tain his loyalty to himselfand his God without falling on the wrong side ofthe English law. Henry desires his sup­port, and the discreet silence More offers is not enough to keep his soveriegn satisfied. 
Events center on the relationships between More, his family, the king, and the other members of the English government and aristocracy who try to convince him to join them and submit to the king's edicts. 
DirectorJoseph Dolan has characterized his concept ofthe show as being a conflict of loyalties; all the charactersin the play are distinguishable by the factions or ideals to which they attach themselves; only More is loyal solely to himself-claiming that "A man's soul is his self ..." 
More will be played byJoseph Musumeci; his wife, Alice, and his daughter, Margaret, will be played by Sue Gosdick and Robin Brown. The Common Man, Robert Bolt's theatrical narrator and link between the audience and the action is played by Greg Hartmann. David Pal­ladino will strut as the young Henry VIII, and Thomas Cromwell will be brought to the stage by Charlie Wiley. 
Dolan and Musumeci, who is producing the show, are most happy with the progress ofthe show. Dolan con­siders the cast that hasgathered to be the most t.dented 
and enthusiastic ever to gather for a fall show with the 
Student Players. 

Musumeci noted, "This is different from any show the Student Players have ever done. In the past, the spring musical has been the main emphasis of the sea~on, and the fall show has be<..l some sort oflight com!' -y, like last year's OddCouple orA shot in theDark, which was presented the year before; one ofthe reasons for this is the lack offunds available for a fall show-these shows are easy to produce because they use, for the most part, common stock set items, and the costumes are available from the actor's wardrobe. However, due to pretty generous funding and a lot ofcooperation from the Cul­tural Arts Commission and the theatre department, as well as a lot ofpenny pinching, we have been able to put together a show which is completely original in con­ception and design, from the set to the lighting and the costumes. Also, while there are many very funny mo­ments in the play, it is basically a very serious play about the struggles ofthe Church and the State and a man caught between them." 
Dolan and Musumeci have good reason to be optimts­tic about the result of their labors. The cast is a com­bination ofactors who share a good deal ofexperience on the Notre Dame/St. Mary's theatre circuit and in high school theatre. Everybody has been giving one hundred percent to get the show to performance leveL Working only with the lights already in Chautaqua, where the show will be held, Paul Clay has created a light set that imaginatively exposes the stage, and at the same time leaves room for some attractive special ef. fects. Desiree Eartley has worked tirelessly to produce from a meager budget some very attractive period costuming. 
Musumeci commented on the quality of the costum­ing: "They are just beautifuL Desi has done a wonderful job; the detail ofthe costumescontrasts nicely with the lack thereofin the set. The people are very well defined while the p t laces and time are suggested by mood of space and light." "The show as a whole lends itselfto interesting staging concepts; while the basic plot and dramatis personae are taken straight from the history ofthe career, trial, and execution ofSir Thomas More, Robert Bolt, the author, has removed the play from the intricacy and detail common in so many "period" pieces, and made it so much more a study ofhuman nature and values that it is not really a period piece at all, but a fascinating study ofa man who was, to quote the author. 'A figure larger than life."' 
The show will be on stage Thursday Nov. 18th through Saturday the 20th, at 8 p.m. in Chautaqua, and at 2 p.m. on Sunday the 21st. Tickets are on sale now at the Student Union Ticket Office for $2.50. Admisson at the door will be $3.00. 

Monday, November 15, 1982-page 10 
Ed in absentia ... 
D
ear Mrs. ~nrady, This is A....:-x, Ed's roommate. I don't know what happened to him. When I left the room that morning, he was his normal self, and when I came back after lunch, he was .. .I don't know .. .like a vegetable. 
EdKontady 
featutes 

He was doing his share ofstudying -although he preferred the room instead ofthe library -but he was getting by: writing papers and reviews and papers and columns and papers and sports and more papers; drinking Old Mud or Augsburger Dark (depending on the paycheck that week); and chomping on pizzas whenever he could avoid A-line. 
As I said, he was getting by-then he becamt president ofJuniper Press, the student-run book publishjng company on campus. He was proud when he told me, saying something like: "Responsibility! I love responsibility!" Ofcourse, Ididn't believe he was president-I wouldn't even make him president ofthe Asprinman Fan Club-but I had to when he started working: reviewing submissions, writing rejection slips, writing memos, reading Publishers Weekly, making executive decisions, and even thinking for minutes at.a time. 
Soon after Juniper Press chose the manuscript they would print, he decided, in a penny-pinching move worthy ofDavid Stockman, to typeset the book himself-with a little help from his friends. 
That might have started his problem. He finished three papers that Friday morning, went to his afternoon classes, then spent thirteen hours that evening composing the pages. He came back Saturday morning exhausted, unable to speak, and promptly fell asleep. 
He didn't wake up until Sunday afternoon. 
That was six weeks ago, and he went straight downhill from there: staying sober, making his bed, shaving and showering, working diligently, going to sleep before it got dark outside, waking up at the crack ofdawn, and smiling! 
I saw the strain and the accompaning depression. He saw them too, and thought that midsemester break would cure him -but he never stopped thinking about school. The features editor believed he had gone over the edge when he wrote about moving the van.ity football team-ifnot the whole school!-to Oakland, California. 
But we thought he was still okay. 
Now that I think ofit, it might have been counting copies ofthe _book that set him off, but whatever did it, when I walked into the room he was standing there in front ofthe television, watching Dance Fever, moving his arms up and down, up and down, in time with the music. All he could say was "stayin' alive, stayin' alive, uh, uh, uh, uh, stayin' alive." 
We called security, and an ambulance took him away. 
I visited him at the hospital yesterday, and he was babbling inces­santly. "Get that beer away from me!" "Please give me a diploma, Father Hesburgh!" "But I have to studyfor a test tomorrow." "What's a bar?" And, so pitifully, "Why can't they serve Cap'n Crunch for breakfast?" 
The people atJuniper Press have been kind of mellow about all this; they just go about their business as if Ed's disappearance was normal. I don't think they have any idea what's happened to my fal­len compatriot, or how responsible they are for it. 
He's not the same anymore. The doctors say he'll be O.K, but I don't know. Physically, he's fine, but deep down in that keg-belly of his? Who knows? 
Mrs. Konrady, I do think he'll be all right; he's tough. And I'll bet, years from now, he'll think the experience was worth it, if only for the drugs they're giving him in the hospital. 
And isn't that what higher education is all about? 
Sincerely, Ed's Roommatt 


IIII~Sii~!S!IBIQ&B!ikS!mlllllllr~~11£.-~.,,:IIII~GUi~·~·911111111111allimi!&IIS:=IIiii·!£E&hlii~2JUEM!II!!.Yii&illll~-.~-11..111111111111111111111111111111111111111111~11111111111111111111111111 
I • 
lh· !he ( Jhsen•er and !be .lssociatetl Press 
It's official. As reported in The Observer on Saturday, Thursday's Notre Dame baskethall game against the Yugoslavian Na­tional Team has heen changed to next Sunday, November 21, at 4 p.m., so that CBS can televise it nationally. The Yugoslavs are touring the United ~tares and playing a series of exhibition games against American college teams. The Irish are the third stop for the Slavs, who played Marquette Saturday and face Memphis State tomorrow. The game against the Irish will be played under international rules. -The Obsen•er. 
Scott Hicks, a 6-.3 guard from Indianapolis Cathedral High School, has become Digger Phelps' second recruit for the Class of 1987. Hicks, who was a teammate of Irish freshman Ken Barlow at Cathedral, signed a national letter ofintent Saturday. He averaged 1 5 points and 10 rebounds as a junior on a team that ended up in the final four of Hoosier Hysteria last year. Hicks, who is targeted to become John Paxson's replacement next year, signed just two days after Phelps' first blue-chipper, 6-8 forward John Bowen of Warren, Pa., put his name on the dotted line. Bowen, who has averaged 27 points and 20 rebounds agame in his career, signed on Thursday, but had announced his intentions on September 28. -The Observer 
Tim Kempton, the 6-9 freshman phenom from Digger Phelps' 1982-83 basketball squad, will be the scheduled guest on WSND's "Speaking ofSports" program tomorrow evening at 10 p.m. Listeners are invited to call in with their questions. -The Observer 
The Irish hockey team split its weekend series with the llniversiry of Illinois-Chicago in the Windy City. Notre Dame salvaged Saturday's game, 5-4, after getting pounded 11-2: on Friday. In the Irish victory, left winger Kirt Bjork scored two goalls in the final period to help NO erase a 4-1 deficit. Junior right wing Mike Metzler added three assists, including one on each of Bjork's tallies. The night before, Mark Doman andJohn Higgins scored consecutive goals for the Irish to bring the score to 5-2, but Chicago scored six straight goals to put it away. Notre Dame now has a record of3-5, and plays host to Michigan Tech next weekend. -The Observer 
Interhall football equipmentreturn will take place today and Wednesday at Gate 9 of the stadium. All teams that are tinisheJ rheu· ·'L'"SoOJ' >llll't rernrro rheir equipment at this time. -7be 0/Jserver 
The Off-Campus hockey team will practice tonight from 1 1:30 to 12:30 in the ACC. Any questions, call Mark Curley at 234-5414. -The Observer 
Fellowship ofChristian Athletes will hold a meeting tomorrow night at 8 p.m. in the St. Ed's chapel. All are invited to attend. -The Observer 
The Saint Mary's Turkey Trotthree-milecross country race will be held Nov. 22. Open to students, faculty and staff of Saint Mary's, interested runners can register until Nov. 19 in the Angela Athletic Facility. There is a S1.00 S 1.00 entry fee. -The Observer. 
Ken Karcher bad his baptism offire on Satur­lost, 24-14. Our coverage of the game begins on day against Penn State on Saturday, and per­the back page and continues on page 14. (Photo formed adequately under the circumstances. by Rachel Blount) Karcher was 9-oj-24 for 131 yards, but the Irish 
...Hoops 
continuedfrom page I 6 
22 points and grabbing 6 rebounds in the 30-minute exhibition. 
The game was played under inter­national rules, as the Irish prepared to take on the Yugoslavian National Team next Sunday. 
"I was concentrating on trying to run the entire game and getting used to the international rules," said Bar­low, one of six players to play the entire 30 minutes. "But I was tired at the end of the first half because it was 20 minutes of running without a break or a substitution." 
Impressive shooting perfor­mances were turned in by sopho­more Ron Rowan ( 5-for-1 0, 10 points), freshmen Jim Dolan ( 5-for­9, 10 points) and !Paxson ( 11-for­17). Keys to the Irish shooting success were point guards joe Buc­hanon and Dan Duff. Buchanon played the entire game with poise while Duffcontribuued seven assists to lead the Irish. 
In all, Notre Dame shot a 
combined 61 per cent in a game that featured a 30-second clock and no stoppage of play. For a team that struggled to a 1 0-1 7 record last season due to lack of offense, last night can only be a positive sign that the freshmen are ready to con­tribute offensively against the Ken­tuckys, llCLAs and Indianas in the early going. 

Nevertheless, Phelps is more con­cerned with long-range goals. 
"I think that Kentucky, llCLA and Indiana have got to win those games," said the Irish coach, "but the season lasts until April. Where we are as a team five months from now is what counts. 
"My concern tonight is I'm still not getting the mileage out of the upperclassmen that I need. 
"After the freshmen had the 33-17 lead, there was a spurt where the blue team dominated," he con­tinued. "The freshmen made seven turnovers on eight possessions. Yet my concern is the rebounding. The turnovers are to be expected." 
In recruiting the five frosh, Phelps tried to fill in specific weak spots that showed up all oflast season. But according to Phelps, "Our role determination is about 70 percent complete. 
"We have 12 guys. All I'm saying to them is 'show me what you can do."' 
Last year, Notre Dame lost a lot of games mainly because it simply didn't have the horses up front. Rur if last night was any indication. t!w Irish may have enough scori'•).:. power on the front line to crc:·,ttl havoc for some unsuspecnng powerhouses. 
IRISH ITEMS-The Yugoslavia game was moved from Thursday night to Sunday afternoon at 4 p.m. so that CBS may televise it national­ly ... .John Paxson says that the big difference this year is in the practices. "Last year, we weren't competitive in practices," says john. "There's a much better feeling this year." ....Cecil Rucker, a perennial crowd pleaser, played the favorite again with a breakaway dunk and an over-the-shoulder reverse layup. 

The Observer wtll accept class1fteds Mon­day through Frtday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m However. classtfleds to appear in the next 1ssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to 1nsertton All classtfteds must be prepatd. 
e1ther tn person or through the matI
Classifieds 
NEED RIDE TO COLUMBUS, OHIO l~otre Dame Ave Apts -Apts ava•labte DESPERATE! !I! Tnp all set t1cket deal THE EXORCIST!!! SHRUBBING. Its an mteresilng concept Two riders need nde tor Thanksg1v1ng. 1'0r next semester. Call234-6647 for more fellthrough NEED 2 USC llx Make the na­Don·t you th1nk so. Anme? For further
NOTICES 

share usual Call Larry at x 1180 tnformatton tional debt look small. call Lou at St. Edward s Hall turns 1 00 What a wtld detailS and 1nformat1on contact the Shrub­66713!!!!! scene. Part1es. recept1ons. talent. and the bmg Lab--339 Farley NEED RIDERS TO CHARLOTTE, N.C. SYR most coveted by ND/SMC women TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 
I am leaving Tuesday tor Thanksg1v1ng St Edward s Hall turns 1001!1!! St Ed· call M1ke at6934 II WHOOYA wards Hall turns 1 00!!!!! St Edwards Hall
LOST/FOUND I

HAVE YOU READ THE MOST FAMOUS turns 1 00!!!!! 
WALL ON THIS CAMPUS? DO YOU 
Need nders to NJ tor Thanksg1v1ng break ST. EDWARD'S HALL.1882 -1982. NEED A HAIRCUT BEFORE YOU ARE Call George 6809 LOST: a gray stad•um tacket from the 
FOR SALE 
The G~rls the Weather the Team

DEPORTED? DOES YOUR MOTHER dtmng hall If you have taken or seen it. DANCE ON TABLES IN A COCKTAIL please call 8024 St. Edwards Hall 100 Years Old 
the Dome and you think I don·t hke 1t REALLY NEED RIDE TO CENTRAL here?

LOUNGE? IF YOU ANSWERED YES TO ... burning with pride fired with en-
NEW YORK (ALBANY. UTICA. 
MartyT

ANY ONE OR MORE OF THESE OUES­thusiasm ... or was that burning with
FOUND: One green notebook for Com­TIONS CALL TODAY FOR AN AP­parative Govt If it IS yours please call 
SYRACUSE FOR XMAS BREAK---WILL FOR SALE: GUild D-35 AcoustiC GUitar. 
desire fired with passiOn ... ?????????? POINTMENT· GUYS $4, GIRLS $6 St. Edward's Hal/turns 100!1111
SHARE USUAL ---CALL CHRIS AT 8573 <!xcellent cond Also. hard shell case Call OR 3510 ANYTIME John 272-0112 or 1-463·7203 even1ngs
Andy at 8692 or 8697 MICHOLE AT 7850 ' dear marty, happy ann1versary -and St. Edwards Hall. 1682-1982 Super mPn 
LOST: BULL I hope you collective pel· 

EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO RIDE NEEDED TO NYC FOR XMAS FOR SALE GIRLS SIZE 9 SUEDE thanks tor makmg me ·so very happy!.. 1n a super dorm BREAK-WILL SHARE USUAL--CALL JACKET Call Marya 1266/7 love you -I.e
lets of rabb•t dung realize that Bevo w11l be TYPING. REASONABLE RATES. CALL 
found and you w111 suffer the conse­287·5162 
CHRIS AT 8573 OR 3510 ANYTIME quences. Call 8765 and be penitent 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, RICK MCBRIEN! I need a nde back to NO after Thanksg•v­
before your fated doom occurs PITTSBURGH CLUB THANKGIVING Photographers Am look•ng tor someone BUS SIGN-UPS MON NOV. 15, ?PM
YOU RE FOURTEEN YEARS OLD. 
•ng from READING, PA or anywhere S•gned. 
VERY DEBONAIR. AND A GREEN­
to work for a professiOnal photographer Lafortune Ltttle Theater Round Tnp
cl?se by If you can help. call Leslie 1288 The Leg•t•mate next semester and next year. 12 hrs/wk, Owner $45 00, One-way $29.00
HAIRED MAN-ABOUT·TOWN! YOURE
PERSONALS 
SOMETHING FAR DIFFERENT! LOVE.
must be able to do h•gh quality B&W tab 
NEED RIDE TO FLORIDA FOR work and be a competent photographer CHRISTMAS MARK 277-0955 
MARCY, VICKY. AND JOHN 
Greg 277265 7 LOST One Ombudsman poster from our 
PITTSBURGH CLUB THANKSGIVING NEED RIDE TO ANN ARBOR FOR off1ce. It was our only copy please return 1t BUS SIGN-UPS TONITE
WOMEN.SCAUCUS meetmg on Monday Hey. I d like to hang out. but lm 
at 6:30 2nd floor LaFortune!!! TOO HIP 
THANKSGIVING MARK 277-0955 so we can make more. Just slide It under LAFORTUNE LITTLE THEATER 7pm
gotta go 
our offJce aoor. Thanks 

RIDER WANTED TO CENTRAL NJ -ATTENTION!!!.. PITTSBURGH CLUB
WANTED 

LISTEN TO THE MID MORNING BREAK Atlanta! Atlanta' Atlanta!
leave Thurs 11/18. 11 am Call after 8 found: One lzod coat. Green Belongs to Thanksg1v1ng bus stgn·ups TONITE Jacke n F1lm Art Class. TT 2:45-4:00 ON WSND AM64 EVERY MONDAY Are you going to or through Atlanta for 
pm Jack 277-1185 I need a nde to the Washmgton DC area Please call Carl after 5 at 272-8428 ThanksgiVmg break? I need a ride.
AND FRIDAY MORNING FROM lOAM tor turkey break Can leave ANYTIME T011AM Please take this turkey home with you.
NEED RIDE TO OR NEAR CONN FOR Dearest Everready. T-GIVING BREAK. CAN LEAVE TUES Happy 21st b•rthday-you·re the best 
please call Doug at 3251 LOST· Gold women s watch lost last Call Jeb at 864 1. Thanks! 
Thurs from Cushmg to S. D1nmg Hall NEED RIDE TO NYC OR NJ FOR Cracked Crystal Please call Julie 2724 SHEILA SHUNICK Lowsa. 
AM CALL DOUG 8389 All my love. 
Omar 

THANKSGIVING CAN LEAVE ANY Happy 21st Nisikiliza k1jana· DAY KAREN 284-5338 Love. Joame. Ellen. Julie H . Julie V . mkupe langu tambo Suzanne. Anme. Maureen. Em1ly. and mkupe yenye maana HELP· need nde over Thanksgmng break Ann Mane. Heres to your booze buytng maneno yenye mash1ko
[fOR RENT I I TICKETS 
What or who 1s Fos• Ver Monkers? Is 11

to Pittsburgh or to 1-80 eXIts 22· ability!' P S. Men of N D Now s your Dun1an1 Sljaana Male. Female. or Mutant?
t 40(preterabty no.39). W111 share all ex­chance. Grab Sheila Shumck today and mzun ktnan1 chako ~nses and dnv1ng. Call Warren at 1167 Student Hous•ng Clean -Sate I NEED 4 USC GAs CALL BRENDAN get a qu1ck yet cheap thrill!!!!(lt s been & John Thanks' $100/mo 291·1405 3207 long semester.) Man, 1 need Van s ! 

Monday,.November 15, 1982-page 12
The Observer 

Carter passes Sitko 

Dillon, Ho-ward -win; advance to title game 
By STEVE DANCO 
Sports Writer 
"A good offense will beat a good defense every time. And vice-versa" is a common football adage. 
And so it was yesterday in the in­terhall football semifinals as Dillon crushed Alumni 29-7, and Howard shut out St. Ed's, .3-0. 
Dillon now faces Howard for the interhall championship next Sun­day, time and place to be an­nounced. 
In what was the resumption of a close, fierce rivalry, Dillon never allowed Alumni a chance to breath as the Big Red offense continually poure9 it on. Riding the arm ofquar­terback George Marget and the acrobatic catches of Bob Wicke and Yogi Spence, Dillon ran up 29 points against a defense that had not allowed a touchdown all season. 
After William Dawahare recovered an errant punt snap in the end zone for a safety, Dillon drove 50 yards in three plays to make the score 9-0. Fullback Brendan Cough­lin rumbled 20 yards around end to set up John Cywynski's 14-yard 
touchdown run. Dawahare then 
MORE ADVENT~JJIII. THAN 
A BLIND 
( / t 
'-. 
/~ <.. 
... /,,/
::;// 
• 

_--Can you picture yourself swinging down a cliff? Or . shooting the rapids? Or crossing a river using only 
_,., a rope and your own two <·:-hands? You'11 have a chance to do all this and more in Armv ROTC. Adventure training like this helps you develop rn;1ny nf the quJlities vou 'II nn_...,j ;h .ln Annv otfJcer. Qu;ilit,c:-. like sclf­...-t ,nfidcnet: Stamina. And the <1hilitv tn perf<)rm unJer orc:-.surc. If \;ou'J like to find out rn( )rc. m;1 ke a date rc' -.ce vo-Ir An·1v R(.JTC Professor (Jf Jv1ilitary Science. 
ARMY ROTC. BE AlLYOU CAM BE. 
CALL TODAY ! ! 
;­

... CPT GREGORY A. CANNATA 

recovered 

Alumni's next errant center-snap to give the ball back to Dillon as the first quarter ended. On the first. play of the second quarter, Marget teamed up with Wicke for a .38-yard scoring strike to make it 16-0. 
The Dogs scored their only points of the day when quarterback John Burke scrambled through the entire Dillon defense on his way to a 35­yard touchdown. 
The score remained 16-7 until late in the third quarter. Again Mar­get unloaded deep and found Spence with a 57-yard aerial for a touchdown. On the next play, linebacker John Husmann recovered another Alumni fumble to set up Dillon's last score of the day. 
After taking the pitch from Marget on an end-around, Wicke pulled up and hit Spence with a 30-yard strike to the one. Four plays later, after a game Alumni defensive stand, tail­back Dave McMahon took the ball over for a score behind a crunching block by tackleJeff Lamb. 
In the first game of the afternoon, Howard never a11owed the St. Ed's offense to get untracked. Although it did have good field position on several occassions, St. Ed's couldn't muster any kind of consistent of­fensive production. 
It was the fifth consecutive game this sea1>on -and second week in a row against St. Ed's -that the Howard defense refused to give up a touchdown. 
Howard scored the only points of the game in the first quarter on Joe Riehl's 27-yard field goal. The kick was Riehl's first of the season and was the only true scoring threat of the first half. 
The game was plagued by numerous turnovers as both teams struggled to gain momentum. Twice in the second quarter, Howard threw an interception only to have the ball handed back to them on the next play by a fumble. 
St. Ed's was finally able to threaten late in the second half. Defensive back Mark Loman picked off yet an­other interception and returned it 25 yards to the Howard eight-yard line. 
But the Howard defense was equal to the challenge. Tim Brug­geman and Paul Fath led the goal line defense and did not allow St. Ed's backs beyond the line ofscrimmage on first and second down. On third down, Casey O'Connor broke through the line for a sack and a live­yard loss. On fourth-and-goal, St. Ed's opted to go for the win. Quar­terback Jeff Jones rolled out to get away from the Howard rush and on­ly a good defensive play by Steve Saturno denied St. Ed's a touch­down. 

Men's Blue 78, Men's Gold 59 Men's Gold (59) 
M FG-A  FT·A  R  F  p  
Dolan  22  4-8  0-0  1  2  8  
Kempton  20  5-7  0-0  1  1  10  
Barlow  0  8-10  1-1  3  2  17  
Price  20  1-5  0-0  4  0  2  
Buchanon  25  2-3  0-0  3  0  4  
Love  0  0-0  0-0  0  0  0  
Duff  13  0-2  0-0  0  0  0  
Andree  4  1-2  1-1  1  0  3  
Sluby  10  3-4  2-3  1  0  8  
Rucker  6  2-3  1-1  0  1  5  
Rowan  5  0-1  0-0  0  1  0  
Varner  5  1-2  0-0  0  1  2  
130 27-47  5-6  14  8  59  
FG  Pet.  574.  FT  Pel.  - 833.  Team  

rebounds-3. Turnovers-20. Ass1sts-11Duff 3). Technicals-None Men's Blue (78) 
M FG-A FT·A R F p Rucker 7 1-2 0-0 2 0 2 Varner 25 7-11 0-0 4 0 14 Andree 13 1-1 0-0 2 1 2 Sluby 17 1-4 1-2 1 0 3 Paxson 30 11-17 8-8 3 0 30 Duff 3 0-0 0-0 1 1 0 Rowan 25 5-9 0-3 3 1 10 Kempton 10 4-5 0-0 1 3 8 Barlow 10 2-2 1-1 3 0 5 Buchanon 5 1·1 0-0 0 0 2 Dolan 5 1-1 0-0 0 0 2 150 34-53 10.14 20 6 78 
FG Pet 642. FT Pet. -.714. Team rebounds -0 Turnovers -10. Assists · 14 (Paxson 5). Technicals-None 


The Observer Monday, November 15, 1982 -page 13 
New freshmen 
Ebben, Basford star for w-onten 
By MIKE RICCARDI 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basket­ball team overcame early-game jit­ters to put on an interesting show for early arrivals to last night's charity basketball doubleheader at the ACC. 
The Blue team came back from an eight-point decifit to defeat the "Gold" team (which wore white), 34-31. More important, however, was the impressive play offreshmen Trena Keys, Lynn Ebben and Denise Basford. 
Basford's steal and follow-up bas­ket with 30 seconds left wrapped up the game for the Blue team, which consisted mainly of freshmen and sophomores. Basford, who finished with eight points, also scored the game-winning points on a layup with a minute left. 
"Denise did what she had to do," 
Yesterday's Results 

Women's Blue 34, Women's Gold 31 
Women's Blue (34) 
M FG-A FT-A R F P 

Keys 20 5-8 1-1 4 2 11 
Kaiser 20 3-5 1-2 5 2 7 
Bates 17 1-2 2·2 1 3 4 
Basford 20 3·7 2-3 1 2 8 
Dougherty 20 1·4 2-3 3 2 4 
Klauke 3 0-0 0-0000 
100 13-26 8-11 14 11 34 

FG Pel. .500. FT Pet. -.727. Team 
rebounds -2. Turnovers -19. Assis1s -6 
(Dougherty4). Teehnieals-None. 
Women's Gold (31) 
M FG-A FT-A R F P 

Ebben 20 3-7 1-1 1 4 7 
Sehueth 20 4-11 3-3 5 0 11 
Matvey 20 4-5 3-4 6 2 11 
Hensley 17 0-1 0-0 2 1 0 
Mullins 16 0-3 0-0 1 1 0 
Monagle 4 0-0 0-0 1 0 0 
Brown 3 1-2 0-0 0 1 2 
100 12-29 7-8 16 9 31 

FG Pel. .414. FT Pet. -.875. Team 
rebounds -2. Turnovers -17. Assists -6 
(Hensley. Mullins 2). Teehnieals-None. 
r~~~......~·~........,~....,..--.........
i WORDSYSTEMS ~ ~ Secretarial/ \ ~ Word Processing Services ~ 
~ Experienced secretaries, _ ~ ~ modern equipment affordable ~ r typing: research manuscriptsil(term papers, theses, articles/~ l books for publication). ~ ~Resumes. Student discounts. ~ ~Spelling corrections. r ~ (219) 272-8355 l ~ Free pick-up and delivery ~ 
~~.,........~......... ..,..~ .......................1 
INTERNATIONAL MULTISTANDAR VIDEOCASSETTE RECORDERS &RECEIVERS FOR PAL SECAM NTSC 
Now !IOU can exchange and playback uideocassetles from almost anywhere in the world! German!J. Spain. Israel. Australia. And many more countries. A complete international uideo system including a brand new SONY SL-T7ME multistandarcl uideocassette player/ recorder and a SONY 20 .. colorreceiuer is auaaable for the special introductory price of $1995. plus applicable sales lax ~freight. Great for foreign language classes or foreign students wishing to exchange uideotapes with their natiue countries. Rapid deliuery auailabe to major metro areas. This special offer is ualid only until December 31. 1982. For information fill out the coupon and mail to: 
The Eston Corporation POB5176 louisville. KY 40205 (502 )454 7555 

·------------~ 
NAME•••••••••••••••••••••••• I ADDRESS•••••••••••••••••••••• I 
I CITY& STATE•••••••••ZIP•••••••• I
IIam interested m multistandard video 1 1
I equ1pment for the followmg countries: I 
I ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::1 
~.-.---------1 
said Irish Coach Mary DiStanislao. "She's a fine ball-handler, and plays great head-on-the-ball defense. She gives us penetration from the point guard position." 
Also introducing herself admirab­ly was Key s. One ofthree players to score 11 points, she scored five quick points to help the Blue to an early lead. Key s also scored on two second-half breakaways, the second putting the Blue back on top for the first time in the half with three minutes remaining. 
The 6-0 Key s, who also pulled down four rebounds, went against 5­11 Ebben in the evening's best matchup. "She's a good shooter and a very smart player," said DiStanislao of Ebben, who scored seven points for the Gold side. 
The early action was ve1:y chippy, and 3:24 of the first 1 0-minute. half elapsed before Ruth Kai~.er hit an eight-foot jumper for the contest's first two-pointer. 
"It was jitters. Period," said DiS­tanislao of the early action. "We had a lot more turnovers than I would like." 
Senior center Shari Matvey's eighth and ninth points of the first half gave the Gold five a 1 5-14 lead 

Prerequisite for 
Canadian Majors. 
M~olson Golden.'lbat's Canadian 
going into halftime. She shared the Gold scoring lead with sophomore forward Mary Beth Scheuth, who added two blocked shots and three steals. Scheuth and Matvcy combined for 1 1 boards. 
With the Gold holding a 25-17 lead midway in the second half, Keyes and Kaiser were able to get breakaway layups following steals to put the Blue back in the ballgame. 
Sophomores Carrie Bates and Laura Dougherty (four assists) and veteran guards Debbi Hensley and Theresa Mullins also got starting nods for the split squads. 
"We're progressing nicely," com­mented DiStanislao. "We're a young team, so it's important to build' cohesiveness. I also hope to get more of a running game ....we showed some signs ofone tonight. 
"If we improve on mistakes, we'll be a very difficult team to beat." 
IRISH ITEMS: Notre Dame opens its 1982-83 season Thanksgiving weekend, November 26 and 27, at the Orange Crush Invitational Tournament at the Rosemont Horizon just outside Chicago. The home opener will take place on Thursday, December 2 when the Irish face Butler University. 


----TIP finest be~r brewed and bottled in Canada. Imported by Martlet Importing Co., Inc., Great Neck. N.Y. ri 1Q82. ---·------­
r... 

Monday, November 15, 1982-page 14
The Observer 
Paterno-instilled poise aids Lions 

Freshman Allen Pinkett wears a smile as be streaks down the sidelines on his way to a 93-yard kickoffreturnfora touchdown in the second quarter, which gave the Irish a 14-13 lead. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
~ .. Kiel 


It's been two days since Saturday's loss, and it still hurts. 
For Irish fans, gone are visions ofSugar Bowls, and an awesome rematch with Herschel Walker and Georgia, dancing in their heads. 
Gone are celebrating in the French Quarter and Pat O'Brien's on New Year's Eve, and watching a classic bowl matchup through bloodshot eyes. 
And gone is what would have been an intriguing courtship, as the Sugar, Cotton and Orange Bowl reps each outbid the other for Notre Dame's presence at their bowl. All three had top representatives at the game Saturday, bids in hand, all of which ended up in the trash can. 
All of this was well within reach -not just a pipe dream -and now it is gone. 
It all went down the tubes with Saturday's 24-14 loss to Penn State before 59,075 cases of pneumonia at Notre Dame Stadium. The defeat was shocking coming off the high of last week's upset of Pitt, but not really surprising given this Irish team, which has broken more hearts than a high school cheerleader. 
You can take some solace in the fact that the better· prepared and better-coached team won on Saturday. Penn State is one of the two or three best teams in the country not merely because of talent, but because of the coaching expertise of Joe Paterno, who has been around college football 34 years and has learned enough of the ropes to outcoach, with ease, one who has had a total ofa year and a half. 
However, the team with the better overall talent didn't win on Saturday. And that's what hurts the most. 
As good as the Nittany Lions are, however, they were heatable on Saturday. Blair Kiel's absence was noticeable, but shouldn't have made that much ofa dif­ference, especially since his injury was known six days in advance. 
No, this game was won and lost on the sidelines, where the cooler heads ofthe Penn State coaching staff were starkly contrasted by the Keystone Kops routine taking place on the home side. 
Here are some questions that may point out the situa­tion on the Irish sideline a little better: 
•Was Ken Karcher prepared to play? 

Gerry Faust knew all week that Kiel would be unable to play, and had all week to get Karcher ready. Whether Karcher's spotty 9-of-24 performance was his own fault or the coaching staffs will never be known. But the sophomore did not look comfortable out there -is that because of lack of experience or not enough practice time with the first team, or both? 
•Why was a time out called to let Karcher tie his shoe? 
If you noticed (and who didn't?), there was only 10 seconds left in the third quarter and the clock was run­ning, but there were still 12 seconds left before the 25­second clock ran out. Karcher could have taken care of the shoe between quarters. Someone from the sidelines panicked and yelled for Karcher to take the senseless time out, one that could have been used more effective­ly in the fourth quarter. 
•Why did the coaches call an Allen Pinkett off-tackle play from their own one-yard line? 
When was the last time anyone called an off-tackle play, especially one that takes a long time to develop, out of their own end zone? The standard play in that situation is either a quarterback sneak or the fullback up the middle, to give the offense and the punter more breathing room. It was almost like the coaches said, a 
Here's the ball, Allen, go get us out of this mess." Not even Pinkett can do everything. 
•Why was poor Jim O'Hara literally thrown to the 
Lionswith three minutes left and the game still in reach? The move did nothing but embarrass O'Hara, a fine and hard-working quarterback who does a creditahle job relaying the plays to the offense via hand-signals. But he has no real game experience and did not deserve to be thrust into a desperate situation ice-cold. 

Here's Faust's explanation: "He's a senior. We just tried him near the end. There are certain things you do just to get moving. We were just grabbing with two minutes left for anything to go right." 
With one stroke ofgenius, Faust embarrassed O'Hara and at the same time destroyed Karcher's confidence by yanking him in the crucial part ofthe game. 
Why was it done? Good question. But, as with the time out for Karcher's shoe, it almost seemed like panic had set in. 
•Was Offensive Coordinator Tom Lichtenberg open­ly screaming crit t icism or encouragement at O'Hara as he left the field after his three incompletions? 
For Lichtenberg's sake, I hope it was the latter. O'Hara did not deserve such a fate, and any criticism thrown his way would be a mortal sin. 
•Finally, why were all the coaches overtly yelling and screaming at each other at crucial times ofthe game? 
Believe it or not, guys, we noticed. 
In contrast, the Penn State sideline remained cool, even as the Lions entered the fourth quarter trailing in the game. 
This is not meant to be vindictive towards Faust and his staff, only constructive. Paterno has been on the Penn State sidelines in some coachingcapacity for three and a half decades, and his calmness under pressure, which he has handed down to his players, was evident Saturday. 
Faust has made great strides in his second season, but he still must overcome the obstacle that everyone knew would be his major problem when he was hired-inex­perience. On Saturday, 34 years of coaching against one-and-a-halfyears was no contest. 
It's a shame, too. The Irish have a national­championship-caliber defense, and an adequate, albeit predictable, offense. Some poise on the sidelines, that which was exhibited by Penn State but was non­existant on the home side, is also crucial for success. 
The major question, therefore, is this: Was this team, its players and coaches, given their performances in this up-and-down year, really deserving ofa Sugar Bowl bid? 
Probably not. But the truth still hurts. 

continuedfrom page I 6 
to the wire in the fourth quarter." 
With all the individual mistakes, blame cannot be placed on the shoulders ofany one individual. The offense obviously missed Kiel, and the defense gave up the big play for the first time this season. 
"The big plays hurt us," said safety Dave Duerson. "They were called at a perfect time for the defense we were in. Despite the loss of Kiel, I think our offense played great, but the defense gave up the big plays. 
"We knew that Kiel was having trouble during the week. He's been our signal caller for the last three years. He's quite a leader and it hurt to lose him." 
"We were forced to make adjust­ments because Blair couldn't play," said Karcher. t "I was nervous, but I felt I could do the job. I just fell a little short today. There were some good moments, but you can't live on small moments." 
Saturday's Game 
Penn State  0  13  0  11  - 24  
NotreDame  7  7  0  0  - 14  
Scoring  

ND -C. Smith 8 pass from Karcher (Johnston k1ck) 
PSU-Blackledge 1 run (Gancitano kick) 
PSU -Gancltano 41 FG 
PSU-Gancitano 29 FG ND-P1nken 93 kickoff return (Johnston kiCk) 
PSU -Warner 48 pass from Blackledge (pass 
tailed) PSU -Safety -Pinken tackled 1n end zone by Ashley PSU-Ganc1tano 27 FG 
PSU ND F1rstdowns 17 18 Rushing anempts 43 46 Net Yards Rushing 193 131 Net Yards Pass1ng 189 131 Passes comp-attempted 11·27 9·28· Had Intercepted 0 0 Total Net Yards 362 262 Fumbles-lost 0·0 3·2 Penalties-yards 1·5 3·13 Punts-average 6·36 0 5-39.8 Individual LA-ra 
RUSHING-Penn State: Warner 25·143: Williams 12·53; Coles 2·minus 1: Blackledge 4·minus 2: Notre Dame: Pinkett 19-70: Carter 13·65: Moriarty 3-12: Sweeney 1·10; Brooks 2·8: Karcher 8·minus 28; 
PASSING-Penn State: Blackledge 11·27·1, 189. Notre Dame: Kiel 0·1·0, 0; Karcher 9·24·0, 131: O'Hara 0·3·0, 0; 
RECEIVING-Penn State: Jackson 6-114; War­ner 3·51; Garrrty 1·16; W1lhams 1·8: Notre Dame: Howard 2·41: Pinkett 2·25; Monarty 1·26; Hunter 1· 13; Haywood 1·12; Smith 1·8; Carter 1·6: 
Attendance-59,075 · 
continuedfrom page 16 
take a 13-7 lead. A collision between the pair on the handoff exchange led to a fumble which Lion tackle Greg Gattuso recovered on Notre Dame's 33. Gancitano, who had only five field goals prior to Satur­day, converted his second ofthe quarter. 
"I messed up on technique," said Pinkett, "The quarterback is supposed to barely touch me ....but I ran into him. Both (mistakes) were due to a lack ofcon­centration." Notre Dame was able to recover from its first-half confusion cour­tesy of Pinkett. The freshman phenom returned Penn State's ensuing kickoff 93 yards, breaking the tackle of Mike Suter and turning on the juice to outrun Chris Sydnor along the right sideline. 

"I just wanted to get to the end zone as quick as possible, but it seemed to take forever," said the swift freshman. "It (the 
return)  avenged  myself ... .I  was  
determined to break it."  
Warner's  touchdown  reception  was  

.. . Lions 

followed by yet another mistake. Massimo Manca, under instruction from Paterno notto kick to Pinkett, kicked off to fresh­man Pat Ball age, who fielded the ball on his 
knee at the one. Notre Dame's attempt to dig out of the hole ended with Pinkett being buried under a stack of Nittany 
Lions, led by defensive end Walker Lee Ashley, in the end zone for a two-point safety and a safer 21-14 margin. 

_, Irish defensive end Kevin Griffith (left, 56) takes aim on Penn ... .and applies what the latter termed "the 5tate quarterback Todd Blackledge . ... worst bit rve ever taken" .... 
---~---.. l 
Ihe~cver========================================== 
~~~~~T===========================M==o=n=d=ay=,=N=o=v=e=m=b=e=r=l=S=,=19=8=2====p=ag=e==15= 
I 
l 
J 
Doonesbury 
COuLl) You. BtltfV( 
)uR( HoP{ W[ Nfvt!Z 
tH( S(f UP IN IH£ DININ~ 
')f( IHM Mm AC~AIN.
4AU. FOit lA)'f SA.fU~AY''> 
The Daily Crossword 


©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 11/15/82All Rights Reserved 
tSuOD£NL-Y. I HfAR fH IS 1 I VOIL..( I~SIDf OF Mt ; ffU..IN 4 Mf fo FEAR 
ACROSS 35 A Gershwin 1 Parishioner 36 Greek 5 Master, portico 
,1mong 37 January In Hindus Caracas 10 ''-aman 38 Splendor 
•fllith•.•" 40 Musical 14 ,,ctor Ray specialist 15 '"rcraft 43 Malignant 16 /)rima donna 44 Enclose 17 Weather 46 Horse 
1'orecast 48 Conger ~ 20 l)lender one 49 More 21 Visionary weather 22 l:poch forecast 23 Alley -53 Bit of hom 25 l~atlve tissue 
ruler of 54 Ripen Jvabia 55 Superlative 
27 lllore suffix weather 58 Musical forecast Instruments 
Saturday's Solution 
l A D Dl T E S T A. J AM 8 ALAI ORNOT.ALOU H ERMAN RUT H. I MAS RET A I N. 8 U l l PENS ~--G l E e"V(p E A u••• DIJDGER~-TYRANT 
AGR I D.TAKES.MAR K '' Y 0. S 0 F A S •w A V E A I. A• A P P~lv• K I T E S 
RIIDOME. AIBOLISH ~--TIES KIA R l-p II 0 T E C T s• N E I G H S L 11 N e• HeN R Y~A A RoN AI.AR.ELENA tMIMI Y 1: N S S E D A IN S T E P 
11/15/82 
61 Wrathful 
5,5 More weather forecast 
68 -Christian 
Andersen 69 Long-limbed 70 Melody 71 All:comb. 
form 72-Ford 73 Endure 
DOWN 1 Resins 2 Friend in 
need :3 Object of worship 4 Redeemable token 
i) Agent 6 Jai­7 Member 
of a crew II Truly 9 Turned 
into 111 Wedding words 11 Racing 
distance 12 Always 13 GWTW 
plantation 18 Arab sailboats 
1!ll Popeye's girlfriand (with 

Garry Trudeau 
IA/£U,/T'$ I L.OV£3/T/ llBtXJTAGUY MIT's NOT IA/HO M.4J($ RIGHTFOR U5. 
CA/?.5.. I /A/HAT Ei5E. }fXI GOT?' 
Jeb Cashin 

24 British 
statesman 26 Coty 27 More mature 28 Smell 29 Metrical 
feet 30 Gehrigor Costello 31 Veranda 
inHIIo 32 Crowbar 33 Bay window 34 Holliday 
of TV 39 Cages 41 Sea bird 42 Hindu 
music 45 Room style 47 Start 50 Marriage­
able 51 Buzzed 52 TV adjunct 55 Resound 56 Bridge term 57 Neighbor 
of N. Car. 59 Provokes 60 Warehous­
ing: abbr. 62 Taj Mahal city 63 The nearer 
one 64 Coupd'­66 "-was 
saying..." 67 See19D 
Campus 
•12:15 
p.m. -Workshop, "Manufacturing Transnationals and the Political Economy ofSouth· em Africa," Prof. Ronald Libby, Ubrary Lounge 

•4:15 
p.m. -Lecture, "Democratic Theory As Anti-Democratic: The Market Model and the Over­load Thesis," Dr. Douglas Bennett, 124 Hayes­Healy 

•7 
p.m. -Monday Night FUm Series, "El Dorado," Annenberg Auditorium, 52 

•7 
p.m. -Speech, "Defining World Hunger,", Gov. John Gilligan, Ubrary Lounge, Sponsored by World Hunger Coalition 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -FUm, "Arsenic and Old Lace," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Film Club, 


n 

•7:30 
p.m. -Writers and Other Troubadours, Classical Guitarist, John Akers, The Cornucopia Restaurant, S1.50 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Socratic Ignorance," Prof Gregory Vlastos, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•9 
p.m. -Monday Night FUm Series ll, '"Mamie," Annenberg Auditorium," S2 


Monday, Nov. 15 
6p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 

9:30p.m. llp.m. 11:30p.m. !2:30p.m. 
Br•1an 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 3-2-l Contact 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS News 28 ABC's World News Tonight 34 Over Easy 16 MASH 22 Laverne and Shirley 28 joker's Wild 34 The MacNeiVLehrer Report 16 All in the Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 16 Uttle House a New Beginning 22 Square Pegs 28 That's Incredible 34 Great Performances 22 Private Benjamin 
"16 Monday Night at the Movies: 22 MASH 28 ABC Monday Night Football 34 The Magic ofDance 22 Newhart 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22Eyewitness News 34 The Dick Cavett Show 16 Tonight Show 22 Trapper john and Columbo 34 Big Red Football 16 Late Night With David Letterman 28 ABC News Nightline 
The saga of a 6 ~tooth old domer. 


Student Union, Educational Media, and 1"he Snite Museum present: 
Robert Hughs 
-ArtEditor of Time Magazine -Author 
-T.he Shock oftbe New "Art, Politics, Propaganda" 
Tuesday, November 16 nn,Dnlrwar·n Auditorium ­
--"1' 

Monday, November 15, 1982 -page 16
S_~orts 
I I ~ 

week's upset ofPitt, was unable to continue and was replaced by an ineffective Ken Karcher as Notre Dame lost, 24-14. (Photo byRachelHlount) 

Timing errors 
Kiel injury detrimental to Irish 
By RICH O'CONNOR Smith on fourth-and-one for a touch­coach, who at times looks and sounds like he should be running a
Sports Writer down -but it was only a matter of time before mistakes caused by a 
TV-repair shop in Brooklyn, went for the two-point conversion but

It was an unusual tale oftwo quar­lack of experience would hand the missed. Another freshman mistake,
terbacks: the incumbent and highly game to the Lions. this time Pat Ballage's inadvertently
criticized Blair Kiel forced to watch Late in the second quarter, Kar­downing the ball on the one-yard
from the sidelines because of a cher audibled at the line. Freshman line, placed Notre in a precariousshoulder injury; the newcomer to Allen Pinkett did not hear the call position.
Notre Dame's annual quarterback and observers in the stadium looked derby, Ken Karcher, forced to lead on in horror as Karcher's pitchout On the next play, Pinkett was the Irish against a tough Penn State sailed away from everybody. Penn 
buried in the end zone for the Penn team in the last home game of the State recovered and eventually State safety. season. On the surtace, many, while kicked a field goal to temporarily "It was a tough game played sympathizing with Kiel, were against an outstanding Penn State
take the lead. 
team," said Irish Coach Gerry Faust.

amazed at what they considered the team's good fortune. 
"There was a sprint draw call," "We played an excellent game. Penn said Pinkett. "It sounded like a pass State continually worked hard and
How wrong they were. 
play on the audible, but I was eight forced some breaks. We made aKarcher performed admirably un­yards back instead ofseven, so with couple ofmistakes, but it went downder adverse conditions, but after 

the noise I just didn't hear it."

three complete seasons of Kiel's Two drives later Karcher and See Kiel page 14
leadership, it had to cause a crisis of 
Pinkett collided on a handoff and

confidence when it was found Kiel fumbled the football. Penn Statecould not throw. 
kicked a field goal to increase its
"I didn't plan to sit out the game," lead. Only Pinkett's 93-yard return

said Kiel. "But I just couldn't get any­on the following kickoffthat enabled
thing on the ball. I hurt it in the the Irish to take a 14-13 lead into the
fourth quarter last week, but it didn't seem too serious. I didn't throw un­
dressing room at halftime. til yesterday to rest it." Early in the fourth quarter, Penn 
Karcher replaced Kiel midway State drove 80 yards in three plays through Notre Dame's opening for the touchdown, and what proved drive. He completed both ofhis pass to be the winning points. Joe attempts for 18 yards in the drive -Paterno, the Lions' normally con­including an 8-yard toss to Chris servative and unassuming head 
Freshmen impress, butveteransprevail 
ByWILLHARE by forcing turnovers and working Sports Writer for good shots. Notre Dame's roster was divided 
The plan was for the experienced into two squads, a blue squad of players to reach five freshmen a returning lettermen and a gold thing or two about Notre Dame bas­squad where names such as Buc­ketball. hanan, Barlow and Kempton were 
That was the plan, anyway. barked out for the first time by P.A.
-But the concern etched upon Announcer Jack Lloyd. Several Coach Digger Phelps' face was in­players played .for both teams, tense as a team ofnew recruits raced however, as Phelps experimented to a 33-17 lead after 14 minutes of with different units in the second the annual intraquad basketball half game at the ACC last night. Tim Kempton, a 6-9 forward from 
Eventually, the veterans, led by Oyster Bay, N.Y., and Ken Barlow, a All-America candidate John Paxson, 6-10 center from Indianapolis, regrouped and overtook the frosh, powered the strong inside game "for gaining a 43-37 lead by intermission the Gold, scoring 27 of the unit's en route to a 78-59 victory. Paxson, first 35 points. last season's leading scorer for the Kempton impressed the crowd of Irish, ironically was the last of I 0 4,642 with 9-of-12 shooting includ­starters to scvre in the game but was ing a finesse move around two still able to pump in 20 of his game­quicker players for one basket. Bar­high 30 points in the first half. low also finished with sparkling 
-Bill Varner, who finished the eve­numbers, netting 1 0 of 12 shots for ning with 16 points, and Paxson keyed a 24-2 spurt for the returnees See Hoops page 11 
Mistakes kill Irish; Penn St. -wins, 24-14 
By MIKE RICCARDI head coach. "They were worried Sports Writer about the run and got careless and that gave us a lot of room to run the 
Notre Dame was buried by its play." own mistakes as Penn State's high­The game-breaker was the only octane offense clicked in the fourth PSU score not to follow on the heels quarter to beat the Irish 24-21 Satur­ofan Irish mistake. At least 15 of the day, to drop Notre Dame to 6-2-I 24 Nittany points were scored with and effectively end its major bowl the Lions capitalizing on Irish chances for 1982. miscues ofone sort or another. 
Maybe it was a miracle that the "We made too many mistakes to Irish stayed in the game so long. win," said freshman tailback Allen 
The severity of Blair Kiel's shoul­Pinkett, who finished with 70 net der bruise, suffered late in last yards rushing. "Penn State got the week's upset of Pitt, forced Irish breaks and we didn't." Coach Gerry Faust to replace the The game did, however, hegin veteran starter with Ken Karcher. auspiciously for the Irish. ND, which The sophomore performed ad­had victimized its three prior mirably, completing 9 of 24 passes nationally-ranked opponents this for I31 yard!>, but his inexperience season (Michigan. Miami and then­showed as the Notre Dame offense No. I Pittsburgh). came our fired up. moved in tits and starts all afternoon. as the sore-shouldered Kiel directed 
The telling blows, however, were Notre Dame 29 yards by handing off dealt by State's capitalizing offense. six consecutive times to ~enior tail­
Todd Blackledge, the Nittany back Phil Carter. When Kiel's at­Lions' brainy quarterback, drove the tempted pass to Tony Hunter sailed PSU offense 80 yards in an early behind the senior tight end, Faust fourth quarter blitzkreig that gave decided to pull the junior and go the Lions the lead for good. with Karcher 
After a Curt Warner plunge to the "(Kiel's) a~m wasn't good before 24-yard line, Blackledge, who had the game," said Faust of the Athletic completed just 8 of 22 passes in the Department's best-kept secret since first three frames, aired it out. With the green jerseys (Kid's ~tatus, excellent protection, Blackledge hit known since early in the week, Kenny Jackson on a 28-yard strike to didn't become public kno" ledge cross midfield. Then, on the next until Friday night). "(The injury) play, the Irish secondary was took away his (pass to the) left side. surprised by a slant-out to Warner, We tried him to the right early in the who then turned it upfield and out­game, and that didn't work ran a stunned Chris Brown and Dave out ....we didn't have much Duerson for a 48-yard TD. choice." 
"I audibled the play at the line of The Irish didn't seem to lose scrimmage," revealed Blackledge af­much as Karcher was able to march ter the game. "I could see that Curt ND downfield and complete the was open in the left slot. They left 7:33 drive by hitting a wide-open him uncovered and when he gets in Chris Smith on an eight-yard touch­the open field and has only one man down pass and a 7-0 Irish lead. to beat, it usually will be a big play." Penn State's initial drive fores­
The big play came against a Notre hadowed Notre Dame's fate. With Dame secondary that was set to PSU bogged down at midfield and defense the run. "Blackledge caught punting, a holding penalty cost the the defense off guard," said Joe Irish 12 yards and a Lion first down. Paterno, the Lions' unpretentious "(The call) took some starch out of 
the team," said Faust ofthe stymied 
defensive effort. "But it's the first 
time I had ever seen it (holding) 
called on a punt return." 
The call, while resulting only in a 
missed field goal attempt for Penn 
State, was the first of many mistakes 
that would shape the first half 
•Notre Dame, after Joe Johnson's interception and return to the Lion 35, was faced with a fourth-and-one at the 26. Faust eschewed the field goal attempt, deciding to go for the first down and calling for Pinkett off­tackle. Blitzing PSU linebacker Ken Kelley blasted through and chased Pinkett 15 yards backwards to give State a first at the 41. 
The Lions were able to drive 59 yards in eight plays, using a pair of Blackledge tosses toJackson for first downs. The second ofthese, a diving catch at the Irish two-yard line, set up a Blackledge plunge for tht~ score. 
•Midway through the quarter, a la,ck of communication between Karcher and Pinkett led to a Penn State possession deep in Irish ter­ritory and a subsequent field goal to give the Lions their first lead. 
"Karcher is not as loud as Kiel on the line of scrimmage," explained Faust. "Pinkett didn't hear the automatic. He just went with the play that was called." With two prin­ciple players executing two dif­ferent plays, the ball executt·d what it had to and sailed 15 yards to the Notre Dame 32, where Penn State defensive end Steve Sefter covered the ball. The ensuing drive led to a 41-yard field goal by Nick Gan­citano. 
• Another mixup betwet:n Kar­cher and Pinkett allowed State to 
~e Lions page 14 



