, , , Grammys -page 5 

VOL. XVII. NO. I IH THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2'>, 1982 
Parnell discusses foreign drug incidents 
l:'tlitor's note: Obst:rverStaffRepor· ter Diane Dirkers recent/}' talked tl'ith Dr. Charles Parnell, Director ofForeign Studies, about the recent bashish incident i1woll•ing foreign studies partlcipants. Due to tbe tmiwrsit}''s stance on press releases concerning the hashish incident in 

lnnsbruck, however, Dr. Parnell u•as 11nable to answer any ques· lions pertaining directly to the matter. 

Dr. Charles Parnell 

Q. Have there ever been any other drng abuse incidents abroad similar to the current situation in Irmsbrnck? 
A. Yes. A few years ago a student was removed from the Japan program for using marijuana in a Japant~se public park. He was removed immediately and expelled from the university, although I think he was readmitted. 
Q. Will the problem discowred in Austria lead to a crackdown in other foreign programs besides In· nsbrnck? 
A. Ifdrug abuse is appan:nt in one of the other programs? There is no question--of course we will cra(·k down. Let me remind you that the way the Administration handled things in Innsbruck in not the exception·· it is the general policy. 
Q. Notre Dame is currently plan­ning an exchange program, whereb)' Austrian students will study here at Notre Dame. Has the recent scandal caused any problems with this plan? 
A. No, I don't think so. Things are proceeding as planned. 
Q. Is the Innsbrnck inddent affecting thisyear'spreparation for the 1982-83 programs abroad? 
No. Not at all. We have just finished the normal interviewing for students going to Austria next year. Even though they are aware of the consequences dealt to this year's studeqts in Innsbruck, no has removed himself from candidacy in next year's program. They have had very m'lture attitudes about the 
see PARNELL page 4 

Fentinist Piercy reads poetryatfestival 
By KATHLEEN DOYLE 
News Staff 
The women's movement, abor­tion and other current issues are the main themes of the works of Marge Piercy, yesterday's featured writer at the Sophomore Literary FestivaL 
"A lot of very ordinary people read t my books," claimed Piercy during a reception at the Memorial Library Lounge following a reading session of her poems. "They are for ordinary people, not an elite group." 
Piercy is a poet, playwright and novelist, whose latest book is 
Braided Lives. 
"A friend of mine wrote to tell me that Braided Lives is being used in abortion clinics to let young women know that abortion is their right," Piercy said. · 
A capacity crowd attended Piercy's poetry reading last night at Notre Dame's Memorial Library Auditorium. Piercy refrained from commenting on her poems, prefer­ring to let them be interpreted by her audience. 
In response to applause at one point in her program, Piercy asked that the audience wait until the end because "I want you to feel the poem, respond to it. We use up energy that way." 
One poem Piercy read was en­titled "Right Wing Mag",· a poem composed of phrases from a. right· wing magazine. Another work, "Doors in the Wind and the: Water" dealt with "subliminal realizations you have, but can't hold onto." A prolific writer, Piercy's novels in­clude Going Down Fast, Dt;lnce the 
Eagle to Sleep, Small Changes, Vida, The High Cost ofLiving and Woman on the Edge of Tim!. the latter "considered by some to be a clas· sic", said Piercy, despite the fact that 
it received poor reviews. 
Some of Piercy's books of poetry include Breaking Camp, Hard Loving, To Be of Use, The Moon is Always Female, Living in the Open, 4-Telling, and The Twelve-Spoked Wheel Flashing. 
Born and raised in Detroit, Piercy attended the Universitv ofMichigan. 
see PIERCY page 3 

Father Hesburgh is shown here addressing a con­See story below. (photo byjohn Macor) cerned crowd at yesterday's. Bread Not Bombs Rally. 
Hesburgh speaks 


Studentsrallyagainst nuclear arms 
· By CINDY COLDIRON 
StaffReporter 
"Helping to raise the world's con­
sciousness against the moral 
obscenity of nuclear weapons" was 
the theme emphasized by Fr. 
Theodore Hesburgh during his 
speech at the "Bread Not Bombs" 
peace gathering yesterday afternoon 
on the steps of the Administration 
Building. 
Stating to a crowd of several 
hundred students that "we cannot 
rest until we get rid of this nuclear 
threat to mankind,". Fr. Hesburgh 
urged everyone to begin with an in­
tellectual look at the usc of nuclear 
weapons, not just with an arbitrary 
statement ofopposition to them. 
Remarking that one of his goals is 
to get scientific leaders as well as religious leaders to renounce nuclear arms, Fr. Hesburgh said that the ultimate hope is to "eliminate this obscenity from the face of the earth." 
Chairman of International Studies Dr. Michael Francis, who also spoke at the gathering, said he felt there could be a nuclear war because of the escalation of the arms race. "The probability of war breaking out during an arms race is twenty times more likely than at oter times," stated Francis. He urged people to educate themselves on this issue and support political candidates who arc sensitive to it. 
Joseph Cosgrove, a third-year law student at Notre Dame, remarked during his address that just since the 
time the peace gathering had begun, 
twelve new nuclear warheads had been addtd to the world's arsenal. Referring to Lazarus' coming out of the tomb, Cosgrove stated that "we have come out of the nuclear tomb once and for alL" 
"A new activism is born here today," said Cosgrove, "and w.: pray that we will someday live in a world of bread, not bombs." Several future national events related to the nuclear arms issue include a United Nations conference on disarmament in New York, June 11·12; Nuclear Awareness Week, Nov. 8-12; and a conference of all Catholic colleges and universities during the sum!Jlcr of 1983 in South Bend. 

Mistaken view 

Conscientious objectorstatusneestime, thought 
Editor's Note: The following is the second ofa two-part series concern­ing the draft. 
By MICHAEL SCHIERL 
News Staff 
Registering one's name with the Selective Service System (SSS) is a legal obligation for many Amercian men. Legally, the proper registration ofone's name signifies nothing more than a simple fulfillment of this obligation. Many young men, however, hold a mistake view of the purpose and significance of registra­tion. 
Contrary to popular opinion, the act of registering in itself docs not legally bind the registrant to join the military or participate in war. Also, no official application for conscien­tious objector (CO) status can be made before the registrant is notified, by mail, of his induction. The claim ofselective conscientious objection (SCO) status due to one's belief that a particular war is unjust presently holds no legal standing. 
Indeed, the purpose of registra­tion serves only to speed up the process ofconscription and military training in the event of a war. "Registration," said President Reagan, "is simply a system which enables us to conscript needed men within 13 days of their notification. It saves us 6-8 weeks." 

THU 



OCUS 
Reagan has obviously faced a new 
set of powerful circumstances 
regarding registration since coming 
into office. Americans remain uncer­
tain about the circumstances behind 
Reagan's complete reversal of his 
pre-election stance on registration. 
"The act of registration itself 
demands that a young man develop a 
moral response to the prospect of 
fighting in a war," claimed Notre 
Dame Campus Ministry counselor 
Mike Baxter. The additional concern 
surrounding. the unknown motives 
of the present ad-ministration provide further reason for discern­ing one's conscience. Baxter em­phasized the need to begin forming a response now, "because if you wait for the letter, there's not enough time." 
The current induction system calls for a lottery as in the Viet Nam draft. Once a registrant's number is picked, he is sent a notification letter requiring that he either report to boot camp for a physical or file for 
see DRAFI' page 4 



NDstudentscaught_ shopliftingat Martin's 
By MARK WORSCHEH versity handle it." StaffReporter Rakow said the total value of th 
allegedly• stolen material was "les 
A group of Notre Dame students than S10." allegedly were caught shoplifting The manager at the Martin's stor yesterday evening at Martin's Super-would not comment on the matter market, I 7970 State Road 23, only confirming that some student according to Assistant Directbr of had been caught. Notre Dame Security Rex Rakow. 
Said Rakow, "Martin's Super­The matter will be nanmeo oy m market called and said they had ap­University, according to Rakow prehended a group ofstudents. They Dean ofStudentsJames Roemer w 
released them to us (Notre Dame scheduled to be notified this morn and Security) and are letting the Uni-ing. 
r 
r f 
-------------------------------·------------------------------------------~----~-----------------,.. 
----···-----------. 


News Brie/§ 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Interior Secretary James G. Watt improperly used government funds to throw two Christmas receptions and must reimburse the government at least 54,300, federal auditors have ruled. The comptroller general of the United States also said "questions could be raised" about Watt's use ofan additional 114,500 from his official reception fund to pay for the events. However, the opinion said, "we will not object" to use of those funds because "agency heads have traditionally been accorded a great deal of discretion" in their use. The opinion, dated Tuesday, was obtained yesterday by The Associated Press. It is expected to be a focus of a congressional hearing tomorrow on Watt's social use of historic Ar· lington House in Arlington National Cemetery. "We expect Mr. Watt to appear at our hearing with checkbook in hand ready to repay the misappropriated funds," said Rep. Edward). Markey, D-Mass., who is holding the hearing. There was no immediate comment from Watt. "We have not seen that report yet and would not be able to com­ment on it," said Interior Department spokesman Phil Million. --AP 
Eldrige Cleaver,a founder of the Black Panther Party who once advocated armed revolution to overthrow the govern­ment, drew boos and hisses at Yale when he proclaimed the United States is the "most democratic country in the world." Cleaver, who now professes to be a born-again Christian, addressed an overflow crowd at Yale University's Afro-American Cultural Center Tuesday night. He was hissed several times by the mixed crowd ofblacks and 
whites. Because of his disenchantment with the Carter administra­tion, Cleaver said he favored Ronald Reagan for president in the 1980 election. However, Cleaver stressed he does not support Reagan's policies towards blacks, but he said cutbacks in social programs might be a good thing for black people. "We have to learn to 'get up and go for yourself.' We've developed a gigantic depen­dency on the federal government," Cleaver said. --AP 
Three skiers died while searching for a comrade who returned to their camp in the ValaisAlps shortly after the three left to look for him, police said yesterday. The searchers strayed off a marked slope late Tuesday and fell 300 feet. Two died instantly and the third, who survived with severe injuries, drowned after breaking through ice covering a creek as he t tried to find help, police said. The missing skier returned to the camp shortly after his friends em­barked on the search. --AP 
France's first "test-tube" baby was born yesterday and hospital officials reported the 7.5-pound girl and mother were doing fine. Officials at the Antoine Beclere Maternity Hospital in Clamart said the parents have requested their identities not be released for reasons of privacy. The world's first test-tube infant was Louise Brown, born in Manchester, England in July 1978. Several others have been born in other countries since. The babies are conceived by removing a egg from the mother, fertilizing it under laboratory conditions and then planting it in the mother's uterus. -AP 
A skeletonfound two years ago on a remote Pacific island has been identified as a Marine private from Texas who was listed as missing in action during World War II. Pvt. Thomas L. Scurlock, 31, disappeared on Nov. 20, I943, said Marine spokesman Sgt. Moses Reynolds. The skeleton was discovered in March of I980 by con­struction workers on Betio Island in the Tarawa Atoll ar .ea about I,000 miles southwest of Hawaii. The Army Central Identification Laboratory in Honolulu made the identification through dental records and other means, Reynolds said Tuesday. --AP 
Indiana WOUld lose S34 million in federal aid for col­lege students under Pre~ident Reagan's proposed budget cuts, according to the State Student Assistance Commission. That would amount to elimination of about 48,000 grants to Hoosier students. The cutback is part of the Reagan administration's plan to trim 527 billion from education and other social programs beginning Oct. I. The president asked for no funding in the coming fiscal year for Supplemental Opportunity Grants, State Student Incentive Grants and National Direct Student Loans as well as a major slash in Pell Grants. During a State Student Assistance Commission hearing at Purdue University Tuesday, chairman Edward N. Lutz said, "It's a new proposal. It's just been put forth. But we've run into some serious opposition." Purdue's financial aids director, Donald E. Holec, urged increased stability for state student aid programs in terms ofcligiblity criteria and management. -AP 
The federal government's collection systems arc so inadequate that the total amount ofmoney owed the nation by contractors, state and local governments cannot even be determined, a congressional report said yesterday. And of the small portion that can be identified, $374 million remains uncollected, says the report by the General Accounting Office, the congressional auditing arm. "Federal agencies are doing a poor job ofmanaging and collecting audit-related debts owed by contractors and grantees such as state and local governments," said the report to the House Government Operations subcommittee on legislation and national security. -AP 
Occasional flurries near the lake today, becoming partly sunny during the afternoon. High in upper teens to low 20s. Clear and very cold tonight night. Low around 5 above. Increasing cloudiness and not so cold tomorrow. High in upper 20s. -AP 
Thursday, February 25, 1982-page 2 


Check-cashingblues 
Ever try to cash a check or pick up a few extra bucks 
for the weekend after Thursday on the Notre Dame 
campus? Ifyou have, you will be able to guess what I am 
writing about this week; if you haven't, be forewarned. 
The problem is the last minute rush that materializes 
near the end of most weeks at two campus locations ­
the cashier's office in the Administration building and 
the main office of the Credit Union. 
As the week draws to an end, the lines on the first 
floor of the administration building stretch longer and 
longer outside the cashiers' office and the serpentine 
lines at the Credit Union twist back and forth as the 
seemingly endless flow of humanity takes up position 
near the proverbial tail. 

To the desperate student who must fit the wait into his schedule between classes so that his dinner date on Friday night does not end up at the South Dining Hall for lack of funds, the situation can be unnerving. The al­ternatives are both dim; miss class or end up eating mys­tery meat across the table from a highly disappointed date. 
Admittedly, the problem is trivial when compared to the sobering reality of world politics, personal problems, or even a sagging grade point average, but why should it be allowed to 
a 

exist at all when there are proposal be without prece­some ready solutions? After dent. Both St. Mary's College looking at the reccent stu­and St. joseph's Hospital al­dent body election plat­ready have branch offices of forms, and considering the the Credit Union. The administration's disregard proposed LaFortune branch for the substantial issues that could be operated at less ex­have been discussed, pense overall, however, be­presented, and turned cause of its full automation 
down, what else is there to and direct on-line hookup 
consider but more down-to­with the Credit Union's 
earth proposals to improve electronic funds transfer limited aspects of student system. life? Let us take a look at two The initial start-up cost ofthese. for the automated teller 
The first and perhaps would, of course, be con­most simplistic solution to siderable but perhaps the the cash shortage problem is University or the Student better planning on the part Union could subsidize this 

of students. Why wait until the end of the week to cash your check? An easy solu­tion, but consider the plight of many students who do not receive their paychecks until Wednesday or later, or those who need cash in the event ofan unscheduled 
emergency. 

Well, if the planning is insurmountable, why cannot the cashier or the credit union stay open longer or open more teller windows? Again, an apparently easy solution . But consider the fact that both of these in­stitutions already provide valuable services to the stu­dents, the cashier's office in particular. Ask nothing in return, and the service is very courteous and usuallv conducted as efficiently and speedily as possibl~ considering the facilities. The Credit Union likewise provides good service to its members, but the long lines at the end of the week are unfair not only to students cashing checks, but to the unfortunate souls who have other pressing business to conduct. 
There is at least one solution left that has been con­sidered quietly for some time on campus. It has even turned up on student politial platforms in the past: the installation of an automatic 24-hour teller machine in the Lafortune Student Center with a direct hookup to the Credit Union. LaFortune would be convenient for students because of the fact that the student center remains open most ofthe day and night; students would be able to "spread out " their collective demand for cash, thus alleviating many of the problems with long lines. 

Also, the location of the Credit Union itselfcan be an issue here, especially during the South Bend winter. For those on the South Quad, for example, the trip to the Credit Union on a cold February day can be an in­timidating prospect. An automatic teller "branch" in the student center would greatly enhance student access to the Credit Union's services. And by no means 
would such "branch" 
expense in order to improve student life. There is also the potential for the Credit Union to inrease its membership through the installa· tion ofthe machine; those now turned offby the spectre of limited banking hours, long lines, and a relatively poor location in relation to the rest of campus, would undoubtedly be more inclined to open an account with the Union ifthey w t ere assured access to an automatic teller machine located strategically on the campus and open for long hours. 
Automated tellers are revolutionizing banking across the nation and their proliferation has brought both greater efficiency and lower costs through competition in the field. Many Americans already conduct many traditional banking functions on these machines, and the future holds a more rapid growth for these devices both for greater conveniences to customers and lower 
expenses for financial institutions. 

Observer notes____----,-~ 
Observer appointments: Ryan Ver Berkmoes, a junior from Aptos, Calif., has been appointed to the position of managing editor. Tony Aiello, a junior from Chicago, 
Ill.. will serve as business manager.

,.... ............. 
~ 
. 
~
•... .•.: 
~ . 
+ G~~ •
i ~ 15%t~~untJ ~i N.D)S:M.cf 
+ Students ti 
. : 
::. DIRECT DIAMO_!'JD IMPO~~ERS • 
+Yniversity PCJ!k Mall and_.: :Concord & Pterre Moran• • Malls -Elkhart •
..................., 

Design Editor ....................... Monica Gugk Design Assistants........................)im Keyes Marilyn larkin Layout Stan: .. .............................. Ed Carroll Randv Typesetters.................................... BobJudg~ Mark Miotto CopyEditors..........................)oe Musumici 
Tim Neely Features Layout ................................... Peter Sports Copy Editor............. Skip Desjardin . Typist......................................jeanine Hynes 
john McCarthy ND Day Editor............... Randy Goskowisz Ad Design ..................john &Mary Torchia Photographer .............................. Tonia Hap Guest Appearances.......... Astuding monk jeb and humor assorted passersby Carol 'Toots' Bulthuis 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS publiShed by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col· lege Subscnptlons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntmg The Observer P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduct1on nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
Thursday, February 25, 1982-page 3
The Observer 

Wtlliamsoutbursts 


Defense rests inAtlanta trial 
ATLANTA (AP)-Wayne B. Wil­liams's lawyers rested their case yes­terday after the ddendant. showing the strain of three days on the stand, attacked his prosecutor as "a fool" and ridiculed the murder case against him as "a bunch of hearsay mess." 
Williams, a 23-year-old black free· lance photographer and self-styled talent promoter, appeared on the vt:rge of tears and acknowledged he had been "through a lot" as he engaged in a series of angry ex­changes with Assistant District At­torneyJack Mallard. 
"'Nobody can say that I did anything. All you got is a bunch of ht:arsay mess," Williams asserted, sticking to the claims of innocence he has made since police first ques­tioned him last May. 
Prosecutors began presenting 
rebuttal witnesses later in the day, 
calling fiber expen Larry Peterson 
to dispute a defense expert who said 
fibers used to link Williams to the 
slayings could have come from 
other sources. 

The defense expert testified that carpet fibers taken at random from a downtown office building matched fibers found on the victims, but Peterson said his own examination showed no match. 
At one point during the morning's cross-examination, Williams told Mallard, "You must be a fool." 
"Didn't you feel that you were outdoing the police?" asked Mallard. 
"No I didn't, because I was not engaged in any type of contest or anything with them," Williams said. "I can't help it because they did a sorry job." 
The defendant's outbursts were a contrast to his generally calm demeanor during his first two days on the witness stand. 
Williams has pleaded innocent to murdering Nathaniel Cater, 27, and Jimmy Ray Payne, 21, two of 28 young blacks slain during a 22­month string ofkillings here. 
No arrests have been made in the 26 other cases, but prosecutors con­tend the Cater and Payne deaths were part of a pattern that includes the slayings of 10 additional young blacks. 
Defense lawyers called 65 wit­nesses in I 5 days during the sensa­tional trial, which is in its ninth week. 
Prosecutors contend Williams 
thre"' the bodies ofCater and Payne 
~Jff a Chattahoochee River bridge 
about a month apart last spring, but 
Williams tol<t Mallard yesterday, 
"Nobody said ... they saw me stop on 
the bridge, nobody saw me throw 
anything otfthat bridge, nobody saw 
me kill anybody." 

Mallard asked the defendant, tie­less in a blue jacket and grey slacks, if his testimony had been programmed. 
"No," Williams replied. "You want the real Wayne Williams? You got him right here." 
When Mallard contended Willis used the term "dropshot" as a slur about poor young blacks, Williams retoned, "No sir. A dropshot can apply to anybody. And to be honest with you, you are a dropshot." 
During another angry outburst by Williams, Mallard turned to District Attorney Lewis Slaton and smiled. 
Williams later said he became 
angry because Mallard was taking his statements out ofcontext "to get his point across." 
Mallard told Williams there were inconsistencies between Williams' testimony and the stories he told police and reporters before his ar­rest last june. 
After a series of questions about those inconsistencies, Williams asked Mallard, "What in the world has that got to do with killing some­body? ... The question is did I kill anybody, and I done told this man (Mallard) I haven't." 
Mallard, referring to interviews Williams gave to reporters before and after his arrest, suggested he enjoyed the publicity he received. 
Williams said he did not want the publicity, and he charged that he gave a jailhouse interview to Us magazine last summer only on the advice of defense lawyer Mary Welcome. 
"Ms. Welcome came to me and 
about that and said we needed to 
raise some income for the trial," Wil­
liams said. 

Referring to statements in the Us 
interview, Mallard asked Williams if 
he had contempt for police. 

"I sure did laugh at them, and I 
called them Keystone Kops because 
that's just what they acted like," Wil­
liams said. 

He complained about police sur­veillance and, pointing to two FBI agents in the counroom, called the agents "goons." 
"These people have harassed m-:, you've harassed my parents, friends and everybody else, trying to put your little two bits worth ofmess to­gether, and I'm saying that, like anybody else, I got tired of it," Wil­liams said. 
'Very interesting' 
Adtninistration eyesneUJ budget 
WASHINGTON (AP) The Reagan administration, in the most conciliatory stand to date over the embattled 1983 budget, pronounced as "very interesting" yesterday a Senate Republican's al­
ternative that would trim the presi­dent's big deficits. 
But the president's men offered no specific indication that Reagan would accept Budget Chairman Pete 
V. Domenici's call for a scalcdown in the proposed Pentagon buildup, a boost in some taxes and a possible postponement of the basic, three­year cut in income taxes.Still, Treasury Secretary Donald Regan said he found the counterplan of the New Mexico Republican a "reasonable proposal." 
"I find it very interesting. I don't reject it out of hand," Regan said as Domenici questioned him at a Budget Committee hearing. 
"Politically, I won't comment on it," Regan said. 
But during a break in the hearing, Regan said the phased tax cut passed last year should not be changed. 
"To change that ... is to defeat your own purpose," he insisted. 
Domenici, outlining his plan in a speech in New York Tuesday night, raised the possibility of delay in upcoming installments ofthe tax cut that Congress passed last year. 
Budget Director ._,_vid Stockman, asked about Domenici's proposal, said, "It's a good-faith effort to generate a comprehensive proposal. But there are problem areas that ntTd to be looked at." 
StiKkman did not elaborate, but 
.\1urray L Weidt·nbaum, t·hairman of 
the Council of Economic Advisers, 
nll'ntioned three "olwious con­
<.:an~" before tht· Senatt· Appropria· 
tions Committee Domenki's 
unspt·t·itkd plan~ to raist· taxes by 
S 122 billion over three years, his proposal to slice S20 billion to S2S billion from the Pentagon budget through 198S and his suggestion ofa spending freeze on hundreds of domestic programs. 
But reservations and all, the reac­tion from the administration was far milder than when Sen. Ernest Hol­lings, D-S.C., outlined his own al­ternative to Reagan's high-deficit budget two weeks ago. 
"Ridiculous," Regan said at the time, who added it was an "affront" to the American public. 
Meanwhile, a Democratic critic of Reagan's Pentagon budget said the coalition favoring big defense spending increases is "cracking before your eyes." 
Sen. Car t I Levin, D-Mich., proposed cuts of up to S14 billion in Reagan's defense budget of 1121 S.9 billion next year. But he conceded Congress was more likely to trim the proposals by less, about SS billion to 
Sl 0 billion. 

Republicans and Democrats alike 
have criticized Reagan's budget, 
with deficit forecasts of $98.6 billion 
this year, 1191.5 billion in 1983 and 
1182 billion the next year. 

Domenici's budget assumes a deficit of S92 billion in 1983, but also assumes that Reagan under­stated the actual level ofred ink. The New Mexico Republican's plan also 
envisions deficits declining to SS4 billion. 
]aruzelski criticizes U.S. policiestowardPoland 
WARSAW, Poland (AP)-Com­munist Party leader Gen. Wojciech jaruzclski opened the first Central Committee meeting under martial law yesterday by denouncing U.S. policy toward Poland as a threat to world peace. 
He also criticized anti-state propaganda by underground media that have sprung up since martial law was decreed Dec. 13, and called for pany unity and stability. 
The four-star general, who is also premier and chairman of the military council that rules the country, was dressed in full military uniform as he read a 68-page speech that was issued by PAP, the official Polish news agency. 
jaruzdski said the United States had shifted from a polk'y of negotia­tion to ··a policy ofconfrontation." 
The Central Committee is the decision-making organ of the Com­munist Party, which has governed the country since the end of World War II. The 14-member Politburo rules when the committee is not in session. 
jaruzclski criticized dissidents, commenting a slogan dabbed on walls in some cities which reads "the winter is yours but the spring is ours." 
"The spring will not be yours or ours," Jaruzelski said. "It will simply be Polish and socialist." 
The Communist Party's role in government was vastly reduced af­ter martial law was declared. Al­though jaruzclski is party chief, he has put many of his military col­kagt·s in important posts since the crackdown and fired civilian offi­cials from other positions. 
Jaruzclski opened the mt't:ting just after noon by discussing what he called the international situation. 
"Unfortunately in recent periods, the threat to peace is . increasing seriously," Jaruzclski said. "The main responsibilitv for this is borne by the American administration." 

Marge Piercy, shown bere delivering one ofher poems, was last nighfs featured artist at the Sophomore Literary Festival. For details, see the page one article. (pboto by Tonia Hap) 
...Piercy 

continuedfrom page 1 
She receive<! ner Masters uegree from Nonhwestern University. She has taught at Indiana University and has acted as poet-in-residence and Distinguished Visiting Lecturer at various colleges. She has also held the position of Butler Chair of Let­ters at the State University of New York. 
Piercy has won such honors and awards as the Phi Beta Kappa, the Phi Beta Phi, the Orion Scott Award for Humanities, the Literature Award from the Massachusetts Governor's Commission on the Status of Women, the National Endowment for the Ans grant, and the Borestone Mountain Poetry Award. 
Piercy is a member ofsuch profes­sional organizations as the Authors Guild, Authors League, P.E.N., Poetry Society of America, Feminist 
Writers Guild, and Women's In­stitute for Freedom of the Press. She has also been a consultant to such groups as the New York Slate Coun­cil on the Arts and the Massachusetts Foundation for the Humanities and Council on the Arts. 

EASY AMTRAK BID ..... 
$5.00 to Niles depot 
For reservations or schedule information, call us or contact your travel agent. 


UnitedUmo 
••••••••MuJawaanuuuUUUt••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••!!'"'"'UU''""UDU••••..,••n••n-----.
DELIVERING to NOTRE DAME and SAINT MARY'S 
Godfather's Pizza® 
i 


lorder the EXPRESS DELIVERY: 
Medium pepperom, sausage, or combo and receioe qu•cker seroice. 
........" .................................-................... 
Driver has fresh pizza for sale on truck. 


tJiQ..U.&.S. 
I 

! Mon.-Thurs. and Sun. 5PM -10:30 i-'M I Fri. and Sat. 5 PM 12:30 AM I 
L......,.,,,Me'••e........., ..........................., ••••••, ••• e ··eweeeMe''P...Meeeeeee••••••...l 
------------------------~-------------------------~~-----------------------~-------------­
The Observer Thursday, February 25, 1982--page 4

The float ofDeSoto, the explorer, rides over a sea of Mardi Gras revelers on St. Charles in New Or­leans Tuesday. The annual fes­tivities ended at midnight with the start ofLent. -(AP Photo) 





Mardi Gras 
A Mardi Gras reveler leaps up to try and grab a bag containing a coconut that is being dangled in front of a Canal Street crowd by a grass-skirted member ofthe Zulu procession. The coconuts are the most cherished ofall carnival throws. -(AP Photo) 
Hundreds of thousands crowd Canal Street in New Orleans Tues­day to celebrate Mardi Gras. Here the procession ofRex, King ofCar­nival, is making its way through the crowd. -(APPhoto) 
• • . Parnell 
continuedfrom page 1 
whole thing and are determined to re-establish Notre Dame's good name in the Austria program. 
Q. In your foreign program orientations, have you been stress­ing the university's disciplinary policies he university's disciplinary policies concerning drug abuse more than you have in the past? 
A. No. I believed it's been stressed enough on campus already. I don't think there's doubt in anyone's minds that things were handled by the university in a proper and almost generous manner. There is a supple­ment to DuLac students receive before going on any overseas study program. They know the rules. I don't need to stress them. 
Q. What rln ,,,, feel abnut drug 
¥-JOIN THE MOST SOPHISTICATED NUCLEAR ENGINEERING PROGRAM 
a: 

11.1 IN THE WORLD 11.1 

¥·IMMEDIATE OPENINGS FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS WORKING
2-TOWARD A BS/BA IN ENGINEERING,MATH, PHYSICS, OR CHEMIISTRY · INCLUDES A FULL YEAR OF GRADU-ATE LEVEL NUCLEAR TRAff.J"ING AT-OUR EXPENSE WITH A $3000 BON US UPON COMPLETION . 
a: ¥-EARN A STARTING SALARY OF $24,100 THAT INCREASES·TO 
c( OVER $4.4~,800 AFTER FOUR YEARS., PLUS FREE M~EDICAL AND DENTAl. CARE, UNLIMITED SlCK LEAVE, TffiRTY DAYS ANNUAL
w· 


PAID VACATION, AND EXECUTIVE CLUB PRIVILEGES.
... 

DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
,_CJ contact Placement Bureau 

OFFICE 646 OPO . 
for next recruitment dates


:) INDIANAPOLIS, IN 46204, 
2 317-269-6183 o·R 1-800-382-9404 
• • .Draft 

continuedfrom page 1 
CO status within 1 0 days. Baxter pointed out that a proper discern­ment of one's conscience takes much longer than those 10 days. And even ifone does determine him­self in sympathy with CO status, the time required to formulate a sound case for CO takes much longer than 
IO days. 
"In face, the ideal time to begin guilding a case for CO, " said Baxter, "is right at registration time." A per­son may write the sentence, 'I am conscientiously opposed to par­ticipation in war in any form,' above their signature. ( lfwritten below the signature, the legal status is ques­tionable). Furthermore, it would be 
Congrats Murph Elaine&
.. 


Beth 
abuse on the foreign programs in general? 
A. Personally, I feel the incident we just had overseas was no greater than the problem we have here on campus. Drug abuse is a hell of a situation. I think it's morally and legally wrong and if I had my say on it, I'd have anyone caught with drugs--here or studying abroad-­kicked out on his ear immediately. I don't handle campus discipline. However, when it comes to the situation where students are found with drugs abroad--in an environ­ment where laws are tougher and more strictly enforced--it's only right that my department and the university should take a harsher stance than that which is typical of this campus. 

wise to check the box about talking to a recruiter to discuss with him the possibility offiling for CO status. 
The purpose of these measures is to establish early proof of a legitimate, well thought-out moral position. Because each registration 

card is microfilmed by the SSS ftseU: .one also establishes undeniable legal documentation ofthis concern. 
Other steps to build one's case 
can be taken after registering. For 
example, a registrant can write the 
SSS requesting information about 
CO. The letter he receives back will 
tell him that no action on CO can be 
taken until after he receives an in­
duction notification card (ifthere is 
a lottery and his number is picked). 
However, this returned letter 
provides proof of a legitimate, pre­
induction opposition to war. Fur­
thermore, the registrant may change 
his present address with the SSS ifhe feels the claims board may be more objective in another area (i.e. less conservative). 
"The first step then," said Baxter, 
"is to begin to discern one.'s con­
science discerning war." The act of 
registering is simply a fulfillment of 
one's legal obligation, not an ap­
proval ofwaroron t e's acceptance ol 
fighting in a war." 
The legal determinant of one's position on war occurs within I 0 days of receiving the induction notification in the mail. In this time one may either report to the designated camp for a physical, or file one's CO claim. If one feels in­clined toward CO, much of the necessary work proving a valid claim must be done beforehand. The Campus Ministry here at Notre Dame is prepared to help in this process of discerning one's con­science. Along with most Catholic dioceses, they will also help prepare one for an appearance before the claims board. 
The first step after notification is 
to obtain SS Form 9 from the local 
SSS office. This form requires a 
concise articulation ofone's feelings 
toward war. Often, however, these 
feelings are not easily expressed 
even for an educated person. Baxter 
claimed, "it is for this reason many 
say the process discriminates in 
terms ofeducational opportunities." 

After being completed, the form must then be postmarked within I 0 days of the original notification postmark. The registrant is then granted a I5 minute hearing before the Claims Board. A person must show sincerity, origins ofbeliet; and consistency with other aspects of life. Letters of recommendation are also requested. 
Although the regulations advise the claims boar t ds to "cut through problems of articulation,"the need for advance preparation is clear. 
The Observer Thursday, February 25, 1982 -page 5 

'Bette Davis Eyes' w-ins song-of-the-year award 
LOS ANGELES ( AP) -Quincy best femak country performance 
.Jont·s dominatCll the 24th annual 
Grammys last ni!(ht, winning tivc 
awards ti>r his own album "The 
Dutk" and the album for Lena 
llorm··~ one-woman Broadway 
show. But tht· biggest ovation of tht· 
night t·amc h>r Yoko Ono. widow of 
t"X·Ikatk John Lennon, as she ac­
ceptnl their joim award for album of 
the yt·ar. "Douhk l'antasy." 
Kim Carnes won record of the 
year honors li>r her smash hit "Bette 
Davis Eyc:s... 
Jones wa~> namnl producn of the: 
year by the: National Academy of 
Recording Arts & Scic:nces and won for best instrumental arrangement, bt·st arrangmt·nt for vocals, and best rhythm and blues vocal for "The Dulle." 
llis fifth Grammy he: shared with Miss Horne for best cast show al· bum, "Lena Horne:: The Lady And Her Musk," which he produced. 
"Man!" Jones enthused. The st<Kky, bc:spectackd artist told the Shrine Auditorium audience that he'd been wanting the producer-of­the year award since "I had long· flowing hair and a thin waistline." 
Miss Horne, meanwhile, won two 
awards for Broadway show album, 
including bt·st female pop perfor­
mance and best ca..~t show album. Jones picked up her awards, saying "Lena, I'm just sorry you're not here tonight. I just love you." 
Jones' vocalist on "The Dude," James Ingram, also won a rhythm and blues best vocal Grammy for a track from the LP, "One Hundred Ways." 
Dolly Parton won two Grammys lor "9 To :<;," ticsi l.ou•lii'Y song and 
but was recovering from surgery 
and was not on hand to pick her 
awards. 
Host John Denver presented the: 
song-of-the-year award to Jackie 

DeShannon and Donna Weiss, for 
"Bette Davis Eyes" as Miss Carnes 
rose to her fc:et and chet-red wildly. 

The Police. Manhattan Transfer 
and "Hill Street Blues" theme com­
poser Mike Post also won two Gram­
mys each and Sheena Easton was 
named best new artist of the year. 

Miss Easton had two hits in her 
rookie year, the theme from "For 
Your Eyes Only" and "Morning 
Train." 
Mellow jazz singer AI .Jarreau won 
the best male pop performance 
Grammy for his album "Breakin' 
Away." 
The Imperials won their fourth Grammy for "Priority," best contem­porary gospel performance, Andrae Crouch made it five with a best con­temporary soul gospel performance Grammy for "Don't Give Up," and B.). Thomas won his fifth Grammy for "Amazing Grace," best inspira­tional performance. 
Australian-born Rick Springfield, 
known to millions as surgeon Noah 
Drake on the popular 1V soap opera 
"Ge'leral Hospital," won the best 
male rock performer Grammy for 
his hit "jessie's Girl" moments after 
performing it on the telecast. 
The Oak Ridge Boys, who had previously won four Grammys for gospel music, cemented their transi­tion to country by winning the best country vocal group award for "Elvira." 


Hijackers release tnost hostages, leave plane 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -A dozen Shiite Moslem gunmt·n who held I()'; persons hostage on a hijacked Kuwaiti Airways jetliner for more than nine hours freed most of their captives and kft the plane early this morning, control tower officials said. 
It remained unclear whether the hijackers kept some of the hostages. One airport source, who declined to be identified, said the hijackers took six Libyans from the plane to a shanty-town on the fringes ofthe air· port. 
The gunmen were protesting the 1978 disappearance of their religious leader -Iranian-born cler­gyman Imam Moussa Sadr -who vanished on a trip to Libya. 
Libya has denied knowing any­thing of his disappearance. 
Just before a bus pulled up and the pas.o;engers descended. this reporter overheard a conversation in which 
Music lessons offered 
Music lessons in a variety ofinsru· 
ments are offcn:d by the Preparatory 
and Continuing Studies in Music 
program. Beginning through ad­
vanced students arc taught by mem­
bers of the faculty, by graduate 
students,and by experienced <:om­
munity teachers. 
For further inti.mnation, contact 
the director of the: program, Darlene 
Catello, at 239·7658, after 2:00p.m.. 
or at 232-5141. All students, faculty, 
and staffare welcome. 
the pilot told the control tower the gunmen would keep six passengers as hostages. 
The gunmen, whose hostages in­cluded Arab diplomats and politicians aboard the comandecred blue-and-white jetliner, opened fire at lea..'it three times on the control tower during negotiations with government officials and religious leaders. 

Reporters at the airport said the control tower was hit several times, and negotiators were forced to dive for cover. This reporter also heard what appeared to be artillery shell­ing around the airport, which had been scaled offby Syrian peacekeep· ing troops and tanks. 
The hijackers spoke against Libyan leader Moammar Khadafy and demanded delegations be sent to the Arab League in Tunis, where Khadafy on Wednesday was holding talks with Tunisian officials. They also demanded a delegation be sent to the United Nations, according to conversations with the control tower overheard by this reporter. 
The hijack leader, who called him­self "Hamza" was identified by state television as the leader ofa band that seized a Libyan plane last December 8. 
Lebanese government sources also said the man identified as Hamza had been involved in at least three previous skyjackings. 
Airport security vehicles sur­rounded the plane:, parked about 300 yards from the Beirut terminal. Reporters said Lebanese security police and sharpshooters had taken up positions at the airport but there was no move to approach the plane. 
Airport security sources said 
some of the gunmen raced onto the 
tarmac in a white sedan and started 
shooting in the air with automatic 
weapons as the passengers were dis­
embarking about 4:30 p.m. local 
time-9:30a.m. EST. 


Newfederalism 

Orr claimsstrong bipartisan support 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Gov. Robert D. Orr said yesterday that President Reagan's new federalism program has strong bipartisan sup­port among the nation's governors. 
"It was an extremely action­packed meeting," Orr said after returning from a meeting of the Na· tiona! Governors' Association win­ter conference. "It was a good meeting. There was a surprising ab· sence ofcontroversy," he said. 
Orr said much of the conference, which began Sunday, discussed new federalism and involved drafting ofa federal policy that would follow the goals outlined in Reagan's State of the Union message. 
"The governors under no cir· cumstances rejected the president's proposals, nor has the president rejected the governors' proposals," Orr told reporters at the In­dianapolis International Airport. 
"Some governors have differing approaches but that doesn't mean we're not all warmly enthusiastic for the concept of new federalism," Orr said. "There is a very strong desire on the part of all governors not to get into a confrontation position on anything on new federalism." 
Orr said governors showed a wil­
lingness to work with Reagan in 
transferring some federally adminis­
tered programs to he states. But Orr 
said Congress is showing sbme 
unwillingness in loosening some of 
the programs the federal govern­
ment nurtured in the past. 
Orr said governors differ widely on Reagan's economic policies. 
"There probably arc half a dozen ofthe state governors who have con­cern, who come from parts of the country where there's a somewhat different point of view," than in In· diana, he said. 
Before Orr arrived at the airport, 
Lt. Gov. John M. Mutz, President Pro 
Tern Robert Garton, Speaker of the 
House ]. Roberts Dailey and 
Republican State Chairman Gordon 
Durnil reviewed action of the 1982 
Indiana General Assembly. 
Mutz called the session" ·a real tri­
umph for Gov. Orr," while Garton 
said it was "the most signifcant ses· 
sion in the history ofshort sessions." 
Mutz said the Legislature ac­complished all ofits goals, including establishing a positive climate for job and business creation without "digging deeper into the pockets of Hoosiers." 
Mutz said the goals included 
keeping the state fiscally healthy so 
that bills can be paid without raising 
individual taxes, keeping the 
property tax relief fund solvent and 
putting Indiana in a poisstion to take 
advantage ofeconomic recovery. 
Mutz said certain segments of the state economy such as the auto in· dustry will not rebound to previous levels, but he said economists still think Indiana will be better off than other states in the Great Lakes region. 
Mutz said he expects a gradual change in the state's economic base, adding that 200 cmpanies are considering moving to the state. 
"We have more hot prospects in Indiana now than in the past 20 months," he said. 
Mutz said a bill that passes along Reagan-style tax benefits to businesses and individuals is also ex­pected to draw or help keep in­dustry in Indiana. 
The Legislature approved the mcasur .c Saturday. Orr has sup­ported the plan. 
The measure would raise the tax on corporate profits from 3 to 4 per· cent in exchange for allowing busi­ness a faster write-off on equipment depreciation. 
"Because of the accelerated cost recovery program, Indiana is now in great shape for any kind ofeconomic development that should come our way," Dailey said. 
Mutz said economists expect some economic recovery in the third quarter of this year that will take hold in the fourth quarter. B .ut he said the impact probably will not be felt until the first quarter of 1983 when there will be more "revenues coming into the state coffers." 
r••••••-•••50¢ o~~ coupoll•••••-••--•' 
I FARMER'S GARDEN RESTAURANT I
I We're "The first place in freshness" 1 1I CUJe have a Qahge aggohtmetlt o~ gatldWieheg, II I goupg, gaQadg. I 
I I 
s:: 
0

CUJe evetl have Chepeg, Quiche, Chic~etlg.tnohe. .c:: 
0 
.c.. 
::::< 
<:,) 

0 gomethitlg to pQeage evehyoM-­
I
I 

I c.Attd hemembeh, I I 
I 

I evehythitlg (.g homemade. I I I Located in University II Park Mall next to Sears •w ' I 
••--••••--•••COupon·-··-------.. 


ANYrHING GROWS
... 

FLORIST -campusdelivery 
HOUSEPLANTS GIFTS, TELEFLORIST WIRE FLOWERS 
get your hall formal 
272-8820 
t-l. IRUNWUOU at 
TOLL ROAD 
DIRECTLY 
EAST ot CAMPUS 

corsages and boutonnieres 114mi. N. of Douglas free delivery to stepan center 
r---"PR.EsENi-itiiS-couP"oN-~--1 
I  25% discount on all hou~ plants  I  
I  NO-.SMC  I  
I  I  
I  ·  I  

~------------------------~­
------~-----------~.....,­
The Observer Thursday, February 25, 1982 -page 6 


--~~fi{fi~~;y 
. ~-­
¥,~~:·.~·:~..~:~:~;;::::..:.~~~--~--: 
> .":'#­
·-·:.BUSCH® The official beer of The Charlie Daniels BandT: 
IC> Anheuser-Busch. Inc. St. Louis. Mo. ,;.,,.,·., 

Thursday, February 25, 1982 -page 7





Business & Technolo 
Economic Update 
Closing its books permanently on the Mobil Oil Cor­poration's abortive dfort to acquire the Marathon Oil Company, the Supreme Court today refused to hear Mobil's tina! appeal of the ad­vc:rsc antitrust rulings that blocked the takeover. Marathon was ac­quired last month by the United States Steel Corporation after the Supreme Court turned down Mobil's request for an emergency or­der that would have prevented U.S. Steel from going forward with 
the merger. 

GM announced that it as "very ncar the end" of negotiations that could lead to the nation's largest automaker importing cars from twoJapanese companies. Roger B. Smith, G.M.'s chairman, said the cars arc subcompacts, as small as, or smaller than, General Motors' Chcvcttc model. He said they arc designed by Isuzu Motors Ltd. and the Suzuki Motor Company. Mr. Smith noted that 
G.M. could buy the cars from either or bothjapanese companies. He said they could either augment or replace minicars that his company has been considering building. G.M. owns a 34.2 percent interest in Isuzu and has 5.3 percent stake in Suzuki. 
A small step, that's what the United Auto Workers have taken toward reopening talks with General Motors Corp. The VAW has disclosed that its bargaining committee favors reviving negotia­tions. Cal Rapson, chairman of the UAW's 11-mcmbcr national bargaining gaining panel, said Monday the committee -favors -resuming talks with GM ifthe company agrees to address the criti­cal issue of job protection. General Motors executives, including Chairman Roger B. Smith and President F. James McDonald, hav t c encouraged the reopening of talks, which broke off)an. 28. 
The Economy wasn't as weak during 1981's last quarter as previously anounced, the Commerce Department reported today. It said the gross national product declined at an an­nual rate of 4. 7 percent instead of the 5.2 percent announced last month. The Commerce Department also said that intlation -as computed for the G.N.P. -linked implicit price detlator -rose at an anual rate of9.3 percent in the quarter rather than the 8.4 percent originally reported. The detlator has shown more intlation accelera­tion than other measures that arc not as broad, including the widely watched Consumt.·r Price Index, which rose at an annual rate of 5.3 percent in December. 
The DowJonesaverage of.3o industrials climbed t3.79 to 826.77. Advances outnumbered declines by more than a 2-1 spread on the New York Stock Exchange. Big Board volume totaled 
64.80 million shares,against 60.10 million in the previous session. The NYSE's composite index rose 1.0 I to 65.45. Analysts said a revival of buying interest in the depressed oil stocks helped lift in­vestors' spirits. They also noted that interest rates declined again today, extending their sharp drop ofthe past week. 
join us this sunday for our cabaret brunch 
classical music provided by the elkhart string quartet 
for reservations call259-9925 
The SR-7JB, the sole training version of Beale Air Force Base, Calif, is believed to be the Lockheed's SR-71 Blackbird, recently became the world's fastest aircraft at Mach 3 speeds and above. first of the reconnaissance aircraft to complete ( AP Laserphoto) 1,000 missions. The training Blackbird, based in 
"Wheredoesitgo?' 



Engineers fight pollution 
By TONI RUTHERFORD 
StaffReporter 
When pollution is mentioned two questions are usually asked. The first, "Where docs it go?" can be answered by the words "ground water." The second, "How docs it get there?" needs to be answered by digital computers. 
Although computers and pollu­tion are not usually mentioned in the same sentence, Notre Dame's Civil Engineering Department hopes they soon will be. Resear­chers in the department arc using computers to investigate how pollu­tion travels from land to water. 
With funds from the United States Department of Energy, civil en­gineers at Notre Dame are trying to develop digital computer models that can trace the travel ofpollutants from land to water. This year's Department of Energy grant of $111,970 brings the total funding to over $340,000 in the three years of the project. 
Research at Notre Dame is being conducted in cconjuncction with the University of Wisconsin and DOE Laboratories in Los Alamos, 
N.M. and Livermore, Calif. Working on the project are Drs. Thomas Theis, David Kirkner, and Aaron jen­nings, professors at Notre Dame. Theis explains that their work is "making a contribution" toward 

U§t ()lit: cJca, u11tll 

lt?()rcltt? clt flit? ~c1zz! 
Tonight: Open Stage 
TRY OUT YOUR TALENTS 
Tomorrow: 9-10:30 Rock with 



TOM KOVACEVIC 
10:30-? For the Folk Crowd 
DAN WOLFORD AND JACKJONES 
discovering how pollutants arc 
moved along land to the ground 
water. 
According to Theis, certain as­sumptions arc made of the transfer in developing the computer models. The pollutants chemically interact with the soil's make-up. "Water moves slowly," said Theis, "but pol­lution moves more slowly and the chemical reactions can be com­plex." 
Dr. Kirkner adds that "the problem may be much more than we can solve." Certain mathematical assumptions are made to simplify the problem solving. Knowing the chemical concentration of the pol­lutant and what type of pollutant it is, enables predictions on the change in concentration due to soil deposits. 
If there is a known contaminate and concentration at one point and a well at another, the mathematical computer model can make predic­tions about the level of concentra­tion that will hit the well. Some of the pollutant is lost through the soil and more water can be added through rains, so the amount is less 
when the groundwater reaches thl· well water. The computer can tell you how much. Or, put simply, "the math model predicts the amount of contaminate in ground water from a known concentration above the ground." 
It is hoped that in the futun·, com­puters will reveal where pollutants travel when placed on land, and how they eventually filter through to the ground water. According to Theis, the advantages of such models are twofold. They can be used as a scien­tific tool to better assess how the soil and chemical systems behave, and as a managerial tool to aid in choosing among potential waste disposal sites. He warns though that it can take 20 or more years to gauge the effects of some pollutants. 


Scientists discover strangelife 
A previously unknown class oflife -suspected of being able to reproduce itself in human and animal cells without its own genetic matter -may be responsible for a host of major and often fatal diseases, scientists say. 
Dr. Stanley B. Prusincr, a neurologist and biochemist leading a team ofscientists at the University of California-San Francisco, said the life form -believed to be a class of the smallest proteins known to science -has been named "prion." 
The word, pronounced "PREE­on," combines "protein" and "infection." Far smaller than any virus, prions cannot contain enough genetic material to reproduce, Prusiner told a seminar this week in Ventura. 
Yet uriously, they are capable of invading human and animal cells and replicating there in what he theorizes may be an ability to usc segments, of DNA -an essential component of all living matter ­that exist within human and animal cells. 
DNA -deoxyribonucleic acid ­is a basic substance in cell nuclei bearing cells' genetic codes. 
By reorganizing the DNA seg­ments into new genes, prions may be able to direct the synthesis of new prions in increasing and infec­tious numbers. 


Thursday, February25, 1982-page 8






Editorials 
The truth and the Third World 
Lawyers and the courts 
The current "campaign" involv­ing Nestle S.A. and the World Hun­ger Coalition illustrates many of problems involved with world views and notions of the 'truth' in political discussions. This question has become a political one, and much of the discussion on either side des­cends into rhetoric with very little meaning. In fact, at times it appears that the sides are not discussing the same thing, and do not possess the ability to. 
An example of the problem is that Nestle maintains that they have not marketed infant formula in the Third World since 1978. WHC disputes this claim, citing abuses reported by 
organizations such as Oxfam and IN­FACT. Nestle replies that Oxfam and INFACT are not responsible or­ganizations and can not be relied upon to transmit reliable informa­tion. WHC, on the other hand, claims that Nestle discredits those or­ganizations because they are against Nestle, and only accepts those in favor of the Nestle position. 
·So, there is plenty of room for con­
fusion and obfuscation of the issues, 
resulting in an exchange of empty 
rhetoric that ignores the real ques­
tion. This is happening in this issue, 
as it seems to be deteriorating into a 
issue of credibility rather than a dis­
cussion on the use of infant formula 
in the Third World. 

The use of infaant formula in the 
Third World is an issue that needs to 
be discussed and clarified. But there 
should be an emphasis on discussion 
and clarification . There is a tendency 
(on both sides) to present only the 
best possible face, ignoring· 
criticism, as a result abstracting the 
issue. And in an issue as important 
as this, abstraction is a very real dan­
ger, and does subtle, but irreparable 
damage. The discussion veers away 
from babies, mothers, death rates, and responsibility, and toward words such as "truth," ''lies" and "right." This is not to say that these words do not relate to the discussion; quite to the contrary, they are the ul­timate goal of any such discussion. But the words do not mean much when the opponents will. not even define an area in which a discussion can occur. 
As it stands now, each side is call­ing the other a liar; Nestle i~ stereotypically portrayed as baby­killers and WHC is considered a group of misguided, naive students. This causes the issue to become a referendum more on the success of lobbying tactics, a kind of popularity contest, instead of being a resolution on the issues. The question of fair­ness enters here, because the the side with the most ammunition (money, people, expertise) will most likely win. In this case, Nestle obviously has the advantage, as it is employing professional lobbyists and consul­tants against a campus organization with an annual budget of just over $900. 
In the Nestle debate, the situation involves human life, -corporate freedom, profits, and responsibility, and whether a boycott of Nestle would do anything to alleviate suffer­ing in the Third World. We are thousands of miles away from the cultures involved, and living in a culture so different from those at issue can cause apathy and non­malicious indifference to the ques­tions. We must remember that there are real people being discussed, not numbers, that those people have the 
same human rights that we do, and that ignoring their problems without full investigation of them constitutes involvement in, and implicit en­dorsement of, their suffering. 
In the developed world we can of­ten ignore the tolls that our standard of living inflicts upon other cultures. It is easy to forget (if we are ever in­formed in the first place) that we are standing upon the shoulders of mil­lions of people around the world. This quiet exploitation ranges from such mundane products as copper tubing for plumbing, cheaply available at the expense of South American miners, to sophisticated situations like fool-proof high­interest investments in South African gold-mining interests at the expense of disenfranchised black South 
Africans. 

In each and every one of these in­stances there is the shadow of cul­pability. Are we responsible to those suffering for our benefit? Is it tough luck that some are born in the U.S. and others in the Sahel? Can we do anything to change the problems we are aware of? 
It is easy to paint vivid pictures of 
suff~ri'!g and iEJus!!_c_ejn_~he Third 
World, hoping to make the reader 
f<:e~_sy'!leathetic or l!:uilty; that 
how~ver, solves nothing, because it issues must be studied _and ~ealt with: Anthony Walton 
because there are ramificatiOns to be felt by someone. In the end, neither Nestle's nor the World Hunger 
Coalition is going to be physically af­
fected by the outcome of the debate; 
families in the Third World will be. 

Nestle has high financial and 
public relations stakes in this issue, 
and can be convincing when protect­
ing those interests; we must also 
remember the interests of the mot­
hers and children of the Third World, 
the victims of much oppression and 
exploitation that has been docu­
mented and proven. While Nestle 
and WHC do the talking, remember 
who they are talking about, and con­
sider their interests as well; those are 
the ones that cotmt 

elicits only-the most superficial types . of sympathy and guilt. Yet,_ the 
Discussions invol\'ing human life must be above profits and political affiliations, people are more than numerical abstractions to be used as factors in an equation, and in light of this one conclusion is undeniable: if 
---· ·----· 
we consciously accept benefits at the expense of the exploited, we are responsible, we are culpable, and if we do not do the most right thing, we are as guilty as those directly in­volved. 
Whether Nestle is the villian they are sometimes described as, or the victim that they describe themselves as, Nestle will continue its practices in the Third World regardless of the outcome of the election. The vote next Tuesday does not affect Nestle's ability to practice business as it pleases in the Third World. It does reflect our position on the possible 
ramifications of those practices; with 
all the argument over who is telling 
the 'truth,' that is something to think 
about. 

Mr. David Brink of Minneapolis, the recently elected president of the American Bar Association, has writ­ten to me to criticize a recent analysis supporting the right of Congress to modify the jurisdiction of the federal courts. Mr. Brink is given to prose so apocalyptic that he even goes so far as to quote Fritz Mondale, whose rhetorical specialty is despair over the failure of Congress to pass a I 00 percent surcharge on anyone whose income is over fifteen grand or so. 
Anyhow, Mr. Brink informs me that Mr. Mondale has said, "If statutory efforts to alter Constitution­al rights and remedies could be made successful merely by reciting the word 'jurisdiction' the Congress could overrule any court decision, and the Constitution would just be a piece of paper." What he does not understand is that in the view of a growing number of responsible Americans, the Constitution has become exactly that -a piece of paper, sitting there, available to the Sumpreme Court on which to transcribe its legislative will. If this 
sounds extreme, permit me to remind Mr. Brink that nothing I have said has nor been said with equal em­phasis by members of the Supreme Court itself who deplore the court's penchant to rewrite the Constitution -to make it exactly that, a piece of 
paper. 

Mr. Brink writes that I am ob­viously motivated by a disagreement with certain court decisions. "These happen to be areas in which ...you are in sharp disagreement with Con­stitutional interpretations by the branch of federal government to which Constitutional interpretation was entrusted by our Constitution, namely abortion, prayer in public schools, and busing and other means of school desegregation." Now that is a most astonishing statement com­ing from any lawyer, let alone the president of the American Bar As­sociation. 
It would be fascinating to learn just where in the Constitution the courts were vested with the power to write policy on prayer in public schools, abortion and busing as a means of desegregation. The Con­stitution says plainly that all legislative power shall reside with 
Congress. Is it not a matter of 
legislation to decide what are the ap­
popriate means of achieving 
desegregation? If abortion is a civil 
right, can Mr. Brink kindly advise 
how it is that this, being so plain in 
the Constitution, was not discovered 
until 1973? I ·will further ask Mr. 
Brink, who I assume graduated from 
law school before 1973, kindly to 
point out where he, when the 
presidency of the American Bar As­
sociation was merely a gleam in his 
eye, announced, like Columbus 
making a landfall, that he had dis­
covered a "Constitutional right" 
heretofore virtually undreamed of? 
Mr. Brink goes on: "Neither the 
proponents (of the redefinition of. 
juridical authority) nor you, I 
believe, would favor stripping the 
federal courts of power to protect, for 
example, our First Admendment 
right to free speech, free assembly or 
the free exercise of religion." Well, 
it is in pursuit of the free exercise of 
religion that a number of congress­
men wish to pass legislation 
authorizing prayer in the public 
schools. 

What Mr. Brink is saying is that 
anything the Supreme ~_gurt affirms canonly be revok~d by passing a constitutional amendment. In so doing he professes a kind of judicial ultramontanism that is thoroughly alien to a society that set out to be self-governing. You cannot simul­taneously be governed by elected representatives and by appointed judges. The whole argument is about the division of authority and such totalism that Mr. Brink expresses amounts to a supine and anti­historical genuflection before a kind of judicial authority never con­templated by the same people who wrote the Constitution. 
The psychology of some lawyers 
is an interesting subject. They are 
men brought up in the adversary 
process, and in almost any such 
situation, only the antinomians will 
reject the kind of relief experienced 
by the Last Word. And it comes as 
something of a relief, given the dif­
ficulty they tend to encounter in es­
tablishing right or wrong, truth and 
untruth, in a complicated world of 
litigation. 

Most lawyers will go along in 

On t4e Right: 
admitting that the court, in _exercising 
authority, has made a few mistakes. 
Most people will admit it was a 
mistake tb permit the deportation of Japanese~Americans during the war and, before that, to uphold the right of Americans to travel to Kansas Nebraska and points north and wes; with their slaves. 
Mr. Brink should acknowledge that the weight of tradition and scholarship simply do not hold Congress powerless to act in the event of usurpation, any more than the courts or the executive are power­less when faced with extravagant claims by sister branches of govern­ment. It is very difficult to under­stand exactly how the proponents ofa careful manicuring of the predatory claws of the Supreme Court are ac­ting other than as guardians of American liberty. 

Editorial Board


==·Ih~Obsenrer== 
Editor-in -Cbief................... , ......... .]ohn McGrath Founded November 3, 1966 
Executive News Editor.......... ............. Kelli Flint Sports Editor.............................. Skip Desjardin 
The Observer is·an independent newspaper published by the students of the News Editor.............................David Rickabaugh PhOto Editor........................................John Macor University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily SMC Executive Editor...........Mary Agnes Carey Editorials Eiiiior.......................inthollv waiton­reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­SMC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico Features Editor .........................&regory Swiercz ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views Department Managers of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola Production Manager...................Michael Monk
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, thtouJb letters, is encouBBed. 
Controller.............................................]oe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakler
P.O. BOJ[ Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Thursday, February 25, 1982 -page 9 
The Observer 


Proponents of nuclear armaments cowardly 
endure a radioactive living hell?
of the earth has vastly greater conse­Apparantly, Professor Norling is"All we' rc trying to say is we are Again Professor Norling is revealingquences for humanity than a relative perfectly willing to let the world beall we've got you and me just cannot his naivete about nuclear warfare. I 
Kevin Behnult
joust between a few thousand Middle obliterated, since "we must all diefail if we never never stop" -The do not think that capitalists or com­Ages Crusaders. Past efforts to con­one day.'' He justifies this suicidalMoody Blues. 
munists would profit from a nucleartrol conventional arms have little attitude by invoking ancient and
Welcome, Professor Norling, to opinion
exchange. There are no winners inrelevance to the nuclear arms race of medieval Christian doctrines, whenthe twentieth century. Welcome, sir, such a conflict-only losers. 
today. just a few paragraphs before he as­to the nuclear age... When I read I am writing not to change Profes­Professor Norling's one venture sailed those who assumecf"moral su­Professor Norling's Feb. 19 master­sorNoifing'-sviews: but to appealto­Union does not want to blow up theinto the post-1945 world, which the periority to others by claiming thatpiece entitled "Proponents of World the intelligence of my fellow peers at world any more than we do. Robertrest of us inhabit, brings us to the religious principles compel supportDisarmament Unrealistic", I frankl­lame observation that "none of the of their doctrines.'' The pot is calling Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. We Kennedy was a man of vision, andly did not know whether to laugh, are the ones that can shape the future. one of his favorite quotes was:disarmament negotiations with the the kettle black. I do not know whatyell, or cry. Except for digressions Do not fall into the abyss of intellec­"Some men see things as they are,Soviet Union since World War II kind of religion Professor Norlinginto his bizarre theories of Chris­tual stagnation. It is much easier to and say why. I dream things thathave resulted in anything practices; I will let the theologianstianity and the usual paranoid revela­accept things the way they are than to never were, and say why not." Whynoteworthy.'' His attitude is: man decipher that one. But the God I have tions about his fears of the inevitable work to change the world we live in. not nuclear disarmament? Shuncannot change the status quo, so why been taught to know is one of lovecommunist takeover of the world, No one said nuclear disarmament Professor Norling's fatalistic rhetoric try? I wonder what the world would and .peace. Building weaponsProfessor Norling makes a basic be like if no one had ever dared to capable of unprecedented -mass will be easy -it will be a monumen­and take the first step in making this point about nuclear armaments. He tal task. But if we all think· like world believe it can be better. Itthink that the earth was round, or that destruction is certainly not promot­argues that since we have nuclear Profess_or NorlLng, nuclear weapons takes courage to believe we canman could fly. 1ust think how ing peace on earth.
arms, we must learn to live with will definitely not go away. It takes reduce nuclear arms, but I have faith primitive society would be if all Finally, Professor Norling's inor­them, even if it means the eventual people were what I call "non­dinate fear of a meri and women of courage to take that mankind is up to the task. Toannihilation of the human race, since that first step by believing nuclear steal a quote from another man of vi­visionaries" like Prof~QfNorling. communist-controlled post-nuclear­we arc no more "dead from a nuclear disarmament is not only possible, but sion, Wi111'am-liiaulkner, I too believe Luckily for mankind, there are al­war world is laughable. Who wouldbomb than from the thrust of a necessary. It takes men and women that "mankind will not only endure, ways a few people of vision who dare really care who controlled a planetsword." He does not sec any point to of vision to realize that the Soviet he will prevail." 
to challangc the status quo. Unfor­where the few survivors wouldworking for reduction of nuclear tunately for mankind, there arc tooarms, since past attempts at anns many non-visionaries aFOund whoreduction have failed. 
arc afraid to expouse ideas whichThis is where Professor Norling would make them unpopular. 
reveals his naivete and unrealism. He My argument is this: we haveis unfortunately living in a world never had leaders with vision orwhich docs not exist any more -the courage enough to really make an ef­past. The explosion of the atomic fort to disarm the world. Unfor­bomb in 1945 changed the whole tunately for us, leaders in both thecourse of history and human rela­Soviet Union and the United Statestions. Nuclear war is a whole new have held attitudes similar to Profes­ballgamc, a problem to be dealt with sor Norling's. When the atomicin the context of the present, not the bomb was first developed, Presidentpast. We arc talking about the poten­Truman ignored the pleas of thetial mas~ murder of millions and mil­scientists who created the bomb,lions of innocent men, women, and Niels Bohr and Robert Oppen­children with the simple push of a heimer, to set up international con­button, not the flinging of bows and trols on nuclear materials before anarrows between professional sol­arms race started. Truman called Op­dias. I am sure that Professor Nor­penheiiner a "crybaby." We haveling is a capable historian, but it never seriously tried to reduceappears that his studies of the past nuclear arms. The SALT talks were ahave blinded him to the present and joke -they did not limit arms, butfuture realities of a totally new way to actually increased them in order tofight wars. All but one of his ex­keep the two superpowers relativelyamples of failed efforts to control even in the race. As long as we havearms arc references to conventional. 
leaders who think like Professor Nor­not nuclear. arms. I hate to alarm ling, we will always live in theanyone, but a war where a few shadow of auclcar annihilation. 
politicians could incinerate the face THt 'B'E~ INM1UNNEL 
P.O.BoxQ Reader answers Cochran article 

program of nationalization iincludes Tht! Observer carried a column by guarding the chickens) after refusing nanimous gesture, the Sandinista t fo taneously striving to safeguard the 
The February 19, 1982 edition of tablished by Somoza himself (the fox cat~strophic. In a rather mag­speech and dialogue, while simul­
private property in the strict marxist Andrew Cochran purporting to sense; that is, the means ofpr~uc~·· to let U. N .-sponsored human rights leadership did not follow this advice. advances of the revolution. expose repressive and totalitarian ex­
tion (factories, utilities, etc. ). It commissions investigate claims of Parenthetically, it might be relevant Cochran's final comments aboui 
cesses in Nicaragua by Sandinista leadership. The article ran under the black headline "Dictatorship reigns in Nicaragua." The piece was ab­surdly reductionist, included errors of ommission, and, not surprisingly, failed to consider the views of the very people for whom the revolution has been of immeasurable value. 
Somoza was not overthrown by " ... a coalition of Marxist guerillas, businessmen, and influential Cat­holics ... '·. While anti-Somoza feeling pervaded the entire country, it was revolutionary peasants, workers, students, progressive mem­bers of the clergy, and their allies who fought the U .S.-equipped Guar­dia. The bourgeoisie, outraged at Somoza' s unabashed profiteering following the terrible earthquake in Nicaragua, and correctly perceiving that industrial growth was substan­tially impeded by the oligarchic character of the Somoza regime, con­tributed money and arms, sometimes their enlightened sons and daughters, but never themselves. 
According to Cochran, the San­
dinista leadership has embarked 
upon " ... a disastrous course which 
includes nationalization of private 
property, repression of human rights, 
and a military buildup which 
threatens neighboring countries and 
vital American interests." The 
does not include property in the sense of private housing. 
Nobody, least of all Nicaraguans, lives in an historical vacuum. If one wishes to understand why Nicaraguans are armed (and not just the army, as in Poland, but as a true people's militia), one need simply study the history of U.S. military and economic involvement in the des­tabilization of progressive Latin American governments (Chile, Guatemala, Dominican Republic, etc.). In none of these countries were the people armed. People bear arms in Nicaragua for one simple reason -to guard their cherished revolu­tion. They bear arms to repulse the murderous attacks of cx-Guardias from ther haven inside Honduras, and to prepare for possible action against the gusanos training today in Miami, with the blessings of our government. The only document of­fered to substantiate U.S. claims of Nicaraguan involvement in neighboring countries (read El Sal­vador, although the two countries share no common border), is the Reagan admininistration' s infamous 
'White Paper', which subsequently was bo shown to be both unauthentic and inaccurate by many sources, including The Wall Street Journal. 
The Nicaraguan Human Rights Commission (NHRC) was es-government brutality (these groups arc free to work in the Nicaragua of today). The NHRC was considered nothing more than a macabre joke by both Nicaraguans and international agencies. The head of the Somoza­creatcd NHRC did indeed label the present government "totalitarian". 
, He made this and other disparaging remarks in a 1980 audience with the Pope, and his statements were reported in the European and American press at a time when aid from these very countries was ab­solutely critical for the delivery of food and medicine to the war­ravaged populace (Somoza, of course emptied the banks when he fled). He was detained on his return to Nicaragua and released a few days later. Investigations revealed-a private accumulation of money in several foreign (mostly U.S.) bank accounts in his name and those of family members. A list was published in the newspaper £1 Nueva Diario. 
Soon after his release a letter, signed by hundreds of priests and nuns, appeared in £1 Nuevo Diario, in Managua. In the letter, the cor­responding demanded that he be tried on criminal charges for endangering the public health by making state­ments which could have led to a freeze on foreign aid grain ship­ments, etc., that would have been here to note that Amnesty Interna­tional lists no political prisoners in Nicaragua. 
Cochran states that " ... the inde­pendent newspaper LaPrensa, which survived Somoza repression, has been repeatedly closed for recently editorial attacks." In fact the history of LaPrensa and those who have worked for the newspaper is a microcosm of the realities and con­tradictions of Latin American life un­der the constraints of economic imperialism. Pedro Chamorro, the enormously popular former editor of LaPrensa, was martyred by Somoza's henchmen during the revolution. Many have argued that his death turned the tide irrevocably against Somoza. Today, eacb of the three Nicaraguan newspapers is edited by one of Chamarro's sons. These are LaPrensa, Barriccada (the official voice of the Sandinista front) and £1 Nueva Diario, which was formed in 1980 by La Prensa staffers who could no longer abide the. reactionary po~ture that La Prensa had assumed. Pedro Chamorro him­
self would tum over in his grave if he knew whatLa Prensa had become. Rather than a l_cgitimate criticism of the national Sandinista leadership, the fact that La Prenta is published today is a testimonial to Sandinista leniency and encouragemen!12ffre_e · the state of the Nicaraguan economy reflect the facile judgements of many conservative western "analysts" who live in this richest of lands (a land with serious economic problems of its own), and who have never known hunger, disease, and in­stitutionalized brutality. If his figures are factual (and where does he get his data?) , Nicaragua's un­
employment rate is still about that of England or, for that matter, Michi­gan and its inflation rate is still about that of England, or, for that matter, Michigan, and its inflation rate less than those of Israel and countless other countries. As far as Nicaragua being " ... .'one of the world's great beggar nations'.", ask Mr. Cochran J.,if he would ask for outside help if 
somebody walked off with the U.S. Treasury. Finally, let J->; :n go to the barrios of Managua, Leon and La Libertad and 
! 
talk to the peopk who train every day after work, so '1at they may be able 
. to guard their precious gains in education, health, and self respect. Let him ask these non-Sandinistas. They will tell him that they know what hope is and that they own the future. They will say to him, 'Let Nicaragua be Nicaragua.' 
Robert Copeland Graduate Student 
Dept. of Biology 
I

Thursday, February 25, 1982-page 10 
~e ~otre Dame trackteam(ravels w the mini 
Classtc t~ts _weekend in Champaign, Ill. Coach joe Piane hopes 
s~veral_ of hts team members can qualify for the NCAA National 
Cha'?ptons~ips over the weekend. Last week two Irish runners 
qualified, bnnging the list w three. -The Observer 
Irishfencersface their toughest weekend ofthe year this week. Arch-rival Wayne State is in town for a 6 p.m. meet tomorrow at Saint Mary's. Saturday, Notre Dame plays host to Illinois and Wis­consin at 11 a.m. in the ACC. The llrish men have a 23-match winning streak going, and are 18-0 on the season. -The Observer 
Hockey ticketsfor the final series ofthe season are still on sale at gate 10 ofthe ACC. Tht~ Irish will battle for home ice in the upcoming CCHA playoffs, taking on Western Michigan in Parents' Weekend action Friday and Saturday nights at 7:30p.m. About 1000 tickets remain for each night's action. -The Observer 
Michigan basketballtickets are still available at the second floor ticket office at the ACC. The game will be held in the Silverdome in Pontiac, Mich., on Sunday, March 7. Tickets are priced at S4 and S6. -The Observer 
Skitripsto Swiss Valley every Saturday night during the win­ter months. are being sponsored by the Student Union. Busses depart trom the Main Circle at 5 p.m. and return at 11 p.m. Bus tickets can be purchased in advance from the Student Union for $2. 50, oron the bus itself for $3.00. Also, discounted lift tickets and ski rental are available -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Rowmg Club wm hold a 
mandatory meeting for aU varsity and novice members tonight a 
7:30 p.m. in LaFortune. The spring trip and racing schedule will be discussed. A $50 deposit for the Texas trip and spring dues will be collected. -The Observer 
CCIIA ploffs may be held at Notre Dame. The semi-finals ofthe hockey tournament will be played Friday and Saturday, March 
· 5-6. If the games are at Notre Dame, face-off time will be 7:30 p.m. Student season ticket holders will have first priority in purchasing playoff tickets. Students who present the face oftheir season coupon book with thei ID card on Monnday, March 1, from 9-5, at gate 10 of the ACC will receive tickets in Section 8. All other Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students may purchase play-offtickets at the same time and place. There is a limit of one student ticket per game, for per­sonal use, and at the student price of $3. Additional tickets may be purchased for $4. ID must be presented at the time ofpurchase, and one student may present no more than four ID's. -The Observer 
Classifieds Found: one ring near library Sunday HelpIll Desperately need ride to North­mght. Call and descnbe. CHIP at 8647. ern Jersey or NYC area lor MarchNOTICES Break. Can leave anytime, will share FOUND: CASH-TELL ME WHERE YOU usual. Catt Tara, SMC, 4986. Professional Typ1ng Serv1ce For Notre LOST IT, WHEN. AND HOW MUCH, Dam&oSt. Marys Students 24 hour AND IT'S YOURS. CALL JIM 8165. NEED RIDE TO MASACHUSSSETTS serv1ce $. 75-$1.00 per page. Call Randy SPRING BREAK. CALL DAVE 1655 (239-7735) FOUND $40.00 on Fnday Feb. 12. Call 3828 to cla1m. Desperately need a ride for two people to OVERSEAS JOBS--Summe'l'oyear Northern Jersey, right off Route 80. Will round. Europe, S. Amer.. Australia, Asia. Lost: a be1ge and blue ski Jacket with red share the usual. Call Mike at 1181. All fields. $500-$ t 200 monthly. Sightsee­stnpes in the South Dining Hall. Call8219 ing. Free 1nfo. Write JJC. Box 52-JN4. for reward. Need nde N VIRGINIII'oD.C area for Corona Del Mar. CA 92625. spnng break. Can leave late the 1Oth. Call LOST A Sliver wrist watch with a blue face J1m 1763. CAMP COUNSELORS--Instructors and a broken watchband. Gives date 1n wanted for prest1ge pnvate M1ch1gan boys both English and Spamsh. Lost on S'o23 NEED AIDE TO MIAMI U. OH. CALL and g~rls summer camps. Marc Seeger around noon near or ms1de O'Shag. RICH 232-1824 1765 Maple, Northfield. JL 60093. Please call Jeff 1764 Two female roomates wanted tor next TYPING: EX-LEGAL SECRETARY 272­year tor Campus View apartment. Please 5337. call7812. · If you m1ssed ANN BOURJAILY, you're a FOR RENT NEED A RIDE TO JACKSON, MISSt5­tool, but don't be a complete 1d1ot...see SIPPI FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL PAT ANDREWS Thursday, March 4, at 8 A.M.P. 817933. p.m. 1n SMC's L1Hie Theatre. Moreau Hall. Available tor next school year and Get a clue and BE THERE. summer--two five bedroom houses. 234­REWARD offered to anyone who can find 2626. me a nde to Ft. Walton Beach, or THE BIG SKY CLUB (THE MONT ANNA anywhere 1n the Flonda panhandle. Will CLUB) WILL HAVE A MEETING WILL BE 4 bdrm house for rent. North shore.$275 share all usual. Call T1m at 6759. AN ELECTION OF CLUB OFFICERS mo. ut11it1es incl. Ava1lable Summer .... . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . AND A DISCUSSION OF SPRING ane•oor fall 1982. Parkovash. Call PaHy DESPERATELY need nde to North Jer­BREAK. ALL MEMBERS ARE ASKED 319-322-8735 call refunded se,oNYC area for break-anywhere on TO PLEASE ATTEND. At 80 in NJ. Will share usual. Dan at 8200. Free rent;house tor faculty tor sum­DO YOU NEED A GOOD HAIRCUT? mer;call Pa«y 319-322-8735 call My Dad wil kill me 1f I don't get 2 GA's for GUYS $4. GIRLS $6 CALL MICHOLE AT refunded. the DePaul game! Call Mo 5120 (SMC) 7951 Available March 15th tor rent, 4 I need a nde to MIAMI or FT Animal Crackers starnng the Marx Bros. bedroom,2 bathroom,maintenance-free LAUDERDALE. FLA tor spnng break call 7,9,11 PM Kmghts of Columbus. Mem­house. $300 per month,plus $300 Mike3242 bers tree depoSit.Call233-254 7 for appointment. Ride needed to Connecticut -tor SPRING BREAK BUS TO WASHING­Three bedroom house. furnished, on Spnns break. Leave Thurs. or Fri. Share TON, D.C.!IISJGNUPON FIRST FLOOR A1vers1de Drive: 2 baths. Call 272-8360. usual. Please call Bill/ at 1626. T LAFORTUNE FROM 7:30 to 9:30 Ideal lor two seniors or two graduate stu­TONIGHTIII $70.00 IS REQUIRED TO dents. KALAMAZOO I need a nde either Fnday RESERVE YOUR SEAT.IF YOU CAN­or Sat. Call Kathy 8093 NOT MAKE IT, SEND A FRIEND! FURNISHED HOMES NICE AREA FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO ND RIDE NEEDED to Dallas, TX or 277·3604 Shreveport. LA Please call 289-8955 APT FOR RENT 288055 ARE YOU PLANNING TO LIVE IN LUS­LOST/FOUND CIOUS. TROPICAL TANTALIZING A 2BA HOUSE FOR RENT 230 SOUTH BEND THIS SUMMER? I'M UTILITIES PAID 150 DEPOSIT 288-7519 LOOKING FOR ONE FEMALE or259-0977 ROOMMATE TO SHARE A CAMPUS VIEW APT. FROM JUNE TO AUG. CALL LOST: A 14K GOLD CROSS FROM A Be your own boss! Comfortale 5 bdrm. PATTI AT 283-8472. RENT IS ONLY NECKLACE: IN GYM 1 OF ACC. IF completely furnished house. close to $145 A MONTH. FOUND PLEASE CALL 283-1772. THIS campus for 5 or 6. 288-3942 IS OF GREAT VALUE TO ME. FOUl~ AND FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES LOST--SHARP CALCULATOR PLEASE AVAILABLE FOR NEXT SCHOOL FOR SALECONTACT BILL AT 8629--REWARD YEAR CALL 234·9364. Found: at the ACC. the mght of the Holy TWO GOOD SIX BEDROOM HOUSES. Cros!t.Dillon hockey game( which by the SIDE BY SIDE. 321. 325 N. TAYLOR. USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought, way the HOGS won handily) a class ring 272-2720. sold. searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. from Umon Haven '81. call Vince 1238 Tues-Sunday, 12-6. 1027 E. Wayne (One must Identify. block south of Eddy-Jefferson intersec­tion.) lost-a digital watch with a cracked crystal ............,.~....[WANTEDand without a band. call 6261 reward. For Sale: 1964 Chevy Schoolbus. Ablt thanks. eng. & trns., carpet & curtains. 272-99t 3 LOST: Neecl nde to Houston Texas, for spnng Band Break1ng Up!! Microeconomics book by Walter Nic­breal<. If you are headed in that direction Mlxer.mlkes,eq.,amps,delay.spkrs.lts. holson. in room 121 O'Shag on Fnday, please call Timo at 1782. and much more. 272-9913 s-.12. Please call Mil<e at 8649 If book is . . . . . .. . . . . . . ... . .. . . . . . .. . . ... . . . . . ... . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. found. TYPING 28 years as a secretary. Excel­Save money on used books at PAN­lent typist-retired. $1.00 per page. Call DORA'S. Used paperbacks 3&o off the list LOST: 2 CAR KEYS. ROOM KEY. MAIL Phyllis 259-2501. pnce. Open 11·6 weekdays, 10-5 KEY ON ST.CHRISTOPHER CHAIN. weekends. PANDORA'S BOOKS. 937 , PLEASE CALL 1771. R"tDE NEEoEDro Housror:.i:rEx~FoR South Bend Avenue. 233·2342. SPRING BREAK -WILL SHARE PLEASE NOTICE: LOST: A Be1ge fur­USUAL CALL CHRIS AT 1678 ANYTIME. Kenwood KA-701 amp 80\/l'och, Kenwood collared w1nter coat by MAINE GUIDE at KX-500 casseHe deck, RTR spkrs, all with the South Dining Hall on S<o2S'o82. A scarf warraot1es, LAB-500 quartz direct dnve and hat were "' the pockets also. Any In­nde d<esperatel y needed for two to LONG turntable.headphones & acces­formation leading to my retrieving the coat ISLANI}oN. Y.C. tor break! will share sones,$850 or separate. 289-3641 (Tony)' will be rewarded without question. Please usual. Phil at 8278. coniact Kevin at 1103. Thank You.  1975 FORD STATION WAGON FOR SALE!II Pi%PB'.AII'l'oLOADED 65,000 MILES...ONLY $1100.00 CALL MARILYN OR DUANE AT 684­3539...JUST THINK OF ALL THAT ROOM II! SONY BOX. GOOD CONDITION.$80 OR TRADE FOR WALKMAN.CALL 1794. TICKETS Need up to 5 DePaul G.A. tickets. Call John at 1391. Alum from Ch1cago needs 2 DePaul GA tix Will pay top dollar Call Charlie at 8214 HELP! I am in desperate need of 3-5 DePaul G. A.'s. Call41-4057. WANT STUDENT OR GAs FOR DEPAUL GAME. BIG$. CALL AFTER 11 p.m. 289-3145. NEED 4 DEPAUL GA'S CALL MARTY AT 1623 I DESPERATELY NEED TWO DEPAUL GA TICKETS PLEASE CALL TIM AT 1377!!!! I NEED 2 DEPAUL GA'SI! CALL BOB AT 1647 Desperately need GA DePaul tickets!!! Call Sandy at 272·4683 Need 2 DEPAUL tickets, will even pay. Call Dan at 8584. I NEED MANY GA's tor DePaul. Will pay $36 a pa1r and future draft considerations. Call JC at 8446. YOUR PRICE-for 1 or 2 DePaul student or GA's. Call B1ll, 3256. HELP! Need one student or GA tor DePaul. Girlfnend will kill if 1 don·t get One tor her. Call Ray at 272-1684 PERSONALS Lookmg for a truly portable, yet powerful personal computer? See The Osborne 1. 64K, dual 1OOK disk dnves. plus $1400 worth of software, all for $1795. FOUR· WAY COMPUTER PRODUCTS. (Across from North Village Mall). 277-7720. K9vRu N cCaffiaiiilii iaiiio cauiicii ;;;;,, hold liS f1rst 1982 meet1ng on Thursday Feb. 25. Please come to the ballroom 2nd floor Lafortune at 7:00pJTl. All welcome. The poss1bilil1es are endless! Surf on the WIND with BJC BOARDS. Want a guitar? New Suzul6'ocase. new stnngs. All other mus1cal supplies. Call Kathy at 6752. NED Ill MARY I NED Ill MARY I NED Ill MARY I NED Ill MARY I NED Ill MARY I NED Ill MARY I to MEW: Happy b-day Texas style II! love, a fellow houston1an ps. Let's rodeo!!! PAT ANDREWS IS COMING ... PAT ANDREWS IS COMING ... PAT ANDREWS IS COMING to Sa1nt Mary's L1Hie Theatre in Moreau Hall, March 4 at 8 p.m.  The Observer till accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, e1ther in person or through the mail. to my HGLDE: ,.II be waiting!!! Jove, the See all the fast-paced action of 3B nert yellow ros&SS'o basketball at Flanner's own Roy Wilkins Coloseum th1s Sunday after Mass. AN .. TOSTAL. Org~n,;~,,~~~~-· M~~tl~g 7pm Sunday, February 28, LiHie Theater. WASHINGTON. D.C. CLUB--Sign-ups LaFortune. Be There! for the Spnng Break bus IS tonight!! 7:30­9:30 ... First floor LaFertune ... you must AUNT DURKIN, bnng $70.00 round-tnp to reserve your CONGRATS ON YOUR NEW AR­seat. RIVAl. I JUST HOPE THAT T.A. DOESN'T DRINK AS MUCH AS HIS PITTSBURGH CLUB SPRING BREAK AUNT. SAT. NIGHT YOU BECOME A BUS SIGN UPS: THIS SUNDAY-FEB. REAL WOMEN WHEN YOU LOSE IT 28 AT 8:00 PM In LaFortune Little ALL THE AMITYVILLE HORROR Theatre. Bus leaves ND Fnday, March 12 at 4:00 PM from the CCE. Bus w111 return on Sunday, March 21 at 1:00PM from the MARY DURKIN: MARY DURKIN: MARY Greyhound Term1nal Downtown PiHs­DURKIN: MARY DURKIN: MARY burgh. Cost: $45.00 round tnp: $29.00 DURKIN: WE. THE MEMBERS OF one way. Payment must be made 1n full at ROOM 421 WOULD LIKE TO WARN s1gn-ups. No refunds. QUESTIONS? Catt YOU OF THE WEEKEND OF S<o2&o82. BRIAN EICHENLAUB at1581. DRINK AT YOUR OWN RISK. SIGN-UPS FOR THE PITTSBURGH JEFF JEFFERS FOR UGLY MOON SPRING BREAK BUS WILL BE THIS ON CAMPUS. SUNDAY FEB. 28 AT 8:00 PM IN LAFORTUNE LITTLE THEATER.ClaSSic Comedyll Marx Bros.!l Animal QUESTIONS? CALL IKE AT 1581.Crackers!! Tonite!! Kmghts of Columbus. Members Free. Fr. Mooch Mlceli-The residents of Cavanaugh Hall kindly ATTN: ALL CAMPUS CRAZIES. request your immediate res1gnationCRAZIEST MOVIE EVER MADE P.S. We have not yet begun to party. SHOWING TONITE AT KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 7. 9, 11. ANIMAL CRACK­ERS, FEATURING THE MARX BROS. MARY DURKIN WILL BE AT NED Ill NED LAMEY WILL BE AT MARY I CAN YOU MANAGE TO STARE AT WHERE WILL YOU BE? STANAGE?????? RICH STANAGE FORUMOC... FEB. 28...1T SHOULD BE A NATIONALThe great books-the great m1nds. Meet HOLIDAY!faculty and students of the Program of L1bero Studies, Mon. March 1, 6:45p.m., ENTER THE NON-EXPERIENCIBLEGrace P1t WORLD ..NED Ill CLEV· ~ND ROCKS! XENIA ROLLS! GROS·· ?OINT PUNKS! DELAWARE maureen,to the g1rl who dresses too nice DISCO;:l! LEBANON SQUARE and studies too much-no complex in­DANCE$! BARRINGTON BOOGIES! tended. Th1s IS your personal1nvJtation to GRAND oLANC WALTZS! LONG IS· stop by my room anyt1me .... understood? LAND CANT DANCE! BBUT Mary Beth JUSt some sheltered slob p.s. Wa1t...see 1 Hawks and Caroline Carran sing I This did' nt say one word about apprec1at10n Saturday at the Nazz 9 pm. Good luck week. from Four South. MAUREEN KARNATZ: THERE IS SO MUCH I WANT TO THANK YOU FOR:BOSTON BUS tor BREAK. MEETING, HELPING ME IN POETRY. ALWAYSTHURS. FEB. 25, 7 p.m. LaFortune Bnng LISTENING TO ME. VISITING ME IN$110 (non-refund). THE INFIRMARY BEING MY FRIEND. I JUST WANTED TO SAYBosToN--sus MEETING &··;,JGNUP THANKS AND LET YOU KNOW I AP­TONIGHT 7, 1n LaFortune. Rd. Tnp­PRECIATE IT. $11 0. Leaves the 12th. LOVE BOSTONCLUB.PARTY;~·FRIDAY!'9i9 JANETSo. Bend, All area residents & tnends IOVIted TO THE SOAIN.COMIC; THANKS!. I HAD ROCHESTER REVISITED-FRIDAY A GREAT TIME FRIDAY NIGHT-EVENNIGHT IF J WAS ABUSED! AND LUCKY YOU EVEN GETS A PEASONAL!(A LITTLEAHent10n Pure HJIIery.wrong-way LATE)Menath,Chns.D1anne and Joyce ... Story number 37:Riders not needed to e1ther ~.0.$.5 So. Ca or Florida. but you can call and the MARX BROTHERS In ANIMAL bug me about 11 anyway. Thanks tor the CRACKERS Thurs. & Fri., Feb. 25 & 26, greattnp. 7,9,11, at K o!C, $1, Members free-You bet your life ... Including the classicFrank comedy of Harpo's winning bridge game and Groucho as the great African hunter Jeffrey T. SpauldingTERRY,! LOVE YOU!!I!!!! MARK (One morning I shot an elephant In my DAVE DZIEDZIC HITS GIRLS. I KNOW pajamas. How he got in my pajamas I'll BECAUSE HE SLAPPED ME. Thereore I never know.) am now accepting appJicalions for a Protector. Must be over 6 toot. handsome TO THE NOTRE DAME BOYS­YES and wiHy (observerites need not apply). BOYS-NO CHILDREN-WHO THOUGHT Call Rabat the news off1ce If qualified. IT WAS JUST SO FUNNY TO STEAL MY .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . SHOES FROM IN FRONT OF MY DOOR And they're off!llt's Slick" Mendota com­IN PE LAST SAT. NIGHT. IF I EVER FIND Ing on strong, followed closely by Dav1d 6UT WHO YOU ARE, WHICH I'M George and Greg Austna. Frank Creed is TRYING REAL HARD-YOU'LL REGRET too tar beh1nd to win. And they're mto the BEINGATTHISUNIVERSITY. YOUS K. stretch, It's Dave and Slick nose to nose (Slick well ahead here). It's Slick,1t's MClVIE ..THE ..STING. THUAS.CARAOLDave,it's, it's Greg Austna, the new 38 c~rcle·Jerk champion! II HALL SMC 7-9:30$1 BE THERE!  

--------~-----~~~------------~---------­
·------------------·---------------­The Observer -Sports Thursday, February 25, 1982-page 11 
FtfteenseasonVlins 

Wrestlers continue winning trend 
mt·nt. berths to the NCAA's a1> thc Big 10
By BRIAN REIMER 
and thc Big 8 havt·. 

Frl·shman sensation Phil Baty set a school record for wins with 3"i Unfortunately, the flip side of during the season, eclipsing DiS­having so many qualifiers is a tough 
Sports Writer 
In rl·cent years, Notre Dame wres­tling teams have been known for 
abato's old standard of 31. Baty only tlcld, for NCAA berths arc wcightcd having a few ~tar individuals, hut lost ten times and will represent the hy past performances of wrestlers Irish at 16 7 -pounds. Freshman from thc rcgionals. The Irish must
little depth. NCAA participants like Bob Golic and Dave DiSabato led the Shawn Moloney will wrestle at I 77 conrend with Dral<e and Northern 
pounds after spending most of the Iowa, two schools from the best col­Irish in the past, but they were rarely season in the 190 pound division. lege wrestling state: in the c.:ountry.
able to lead their teams to winning The Irish also face SEC powers Ken­
seasons. The 19H I-H2 Notn: Dame Moloney finished with a 20-19·1 
mark. tucky, Tennessee, and Louisiana
wrestkrs put an end to that trend 
Matt Stamm, yet another fresh­State, along with cross-state rival In­
and have the chance to continue the trend of individual excellence this man, will fill the slot at 190 pounds. 
diana State. Sending a wrestler to the NCAA's
Matt's record stands at I 0-9. Heavyweight Larry Kissner, who will be difficult, even though one 
weekt:nd. 
Louisiana State hosts the NCAA 
joined the team late in the season fourth-place individual will get toMidwest Regional Wrestling cham­receive a wild-card bid ifhe wins thepionships this weekend and the Irish and rescued the Irish from having to forfeit every heavyweight match, coaches balloting at the end of thehope to make their stay in Baton won I I out of 20 matches. meet. Difficult tasks, howcvcr, arc
Rouge successful. A total offourteen teams will bl' there. with the top Never has a Notre Damt: wrestling familiar to a team that had the 
team had so much depth. What school's best record ever, eventhree individuals in each weight remains to be seen is how many in­though it lost high quality wresltersclass receiving an automatic berth in the NCAA nationals at Iowa State. 
dividuals can make it to nationals. At like Pete and Joe Agostino to in­Notre Dame has already rewritten first glance, the Irish seem lucky to juries. Sending a wrestler or two to the school record book, as far as be going to a regional that has so 
national could be icing on the cake 
many NCAA qualifiers. The Midwest for a vastly improving Notre Dame wrestling program. 
team standards an· concerned. The 
regional has as many automatic winning percentage in the school's history. The fifteen wins were also a new mark. What may be the most amazing fact about these two t1nal record of 15-2-1 led to the best 
• • .Meyer
records is that the Irish <:ame off three consecutivt: losing seasons when this year started. 
Nine Notre Dame wrestlers will Notre Dame every day, and that has
continuedfrom page 12 

make the trip south. joe Andrcetti carried over to today. We never play will wrestk at eithn I I H or I26 Meyer is proud of his connection a ballgame without Mass in the pounds. In his th·shman year, he with Nmre Dame, even though the morning or afternoon. fini~hed the regular saeson with a Irish and the Demons clash annually. ~2-1 (J record. Senior co-captain A plaque presented to him as the "Notre Dame taught me a great Curt Rood will fill the I.H pound Monogram Club's Man-of-the-Year deal," Meyer acknowledged. "I'll al­slot. In ~pite of having his tair share in 1979 hangs prominently on his ways he indebted to them for that." 
of injurks during tht.· yt:ar, Rood office wall. But there arc far more managt:d to win 25 matches, while reminders of his deep roots at only losing I 2. DcPaul. 
l'rt:shman Don Hcintzl'lman takt:s 
"One thing Notre Dame taught

his I'VJ mark inro tlw rt·gionals at 
me to do was pray," said the man
1·12 pounds. Junior Doug Skinner b nt·xt in tht· lint.·up, wre::.tling at 1 ')() who is l>ddom without a rosary. pounds. Skinner manJ.ged a 17-9 "Thl· guys on the tt:am call me mark in the season. Brian Erard, one 'Lucky Bcatb' hn:au~c I always have of only thrl"t: sl·niors. will takt: a 
them with me. I <!lso went t.o .\las~ at
rl·l·ord of 32-1.... into the tourna· 
• • • DiStanislao 
-arc on the Cornhusker roster. mcnt hopes make it mar1datory. 
continuedfrom page 16 
Cathy Owen, a "i·'i guard out ofVcn· IRISH. ITEMS -To~ight's game, of point!'> because they took a lot of tura, Cali(, is one of them, and for­scheduled to begin at 7:30, will be shots. The Irish were able to win bt·· ward Debra Powell, out of East St. the tlrst played between the two cause they took the Wolves out of Louis, Ill., is the other. schools . . . Notr~· Dame and their game and controlled the Powell is the lone other double· Nebraska have played just one com­tempo. figure scorer for Nebraska, averag­mon opponent this season. The Irish 
They'll have to do the same ing nearly I_5 points per game, while beat Missouri over Christmas break tonight to stay with the Nebraska Owen averages slightly under I 0. 60-53 at Kansas City, Mo., while the Cornhuskcrs, a team that finished "We expect to see everything Cornhuskcrs have lost to the Tigers third in the Big Eight tournament af­from-them," DiStanislao says. "They twice, 68-58 at Uncoln, Ncb., and ter being eliminated hy the eventual play a lot ofdifferent defenses, and a 72-68 at Columbia, Mo. . . . After champion nationally-ranked lot of full-court defenses. And thcy tonight's game, the Cornhuskers Kansas State. play that wide open game which we travel to Chicago for dates with 
"Because they're an up-tempo are going to have to control." Northwestern Saturday and DePaul team, Nebraska doesn't get involved "Have to" is right -Irish tourna-Sunday. in a whole lot of close games," says Mary D. "The few close ones they have had were in the Big Eight's, when they tried to slow the tempo 

, , , Iowa 

down. When we saw them, they were trying to control their offense, but from the scouting reports we race "typical," adding: "Someone al­
have now, it looks like they're back continuedfrom page 14 ways breaks out in front as Iowa did,
into the wide-open style of play." Two mcmbcrs of Coach Colleen Ohio State and Indiana, who arc tied 
then the other teams spring back Matsubara's Cornhusker club arc for third place, two games off the 
and scramble the.race. It seems it al­
ways goes down to the last week and 
there are no exceptions. 

among the top three career scoring pace. That tic will be resolved 
leaders at Nebraska. The leader is 6-Thursday night when Indiana plays 0 junior forward Kathy Hagcrstrom, at Ohio State. who this year averages just under 16 "Before the NCAA tournament ex­points per outing. Minnesota will be at Michigan, Il­panded to 48 teams when only the 
"!Iagerstrom is the person they linois at Michigan State and Purdue champion would get a bid, the teams like to set up to score," says DiStanis­at Northwestern. that were behind would say 'what lao. "They don't have a real strong 
the heck' and let it go at that. But inside game -she's it. She's been a 
Coach Jim Dutcher of Minnesota now with three or four teams having little strcal<y of late, but she's a very is not looking past Michigan to the a chance to get into' the tournament, capable scorer." important Iowa game Saturd.ay. they don't let you get away." Senior Janet Smith is third on the all-time scoring charts, and first on "Michigan is playing tough and we Besides Iowa and Minnesota, 
the all-time rebounding list. Smith haven't won there in 13 years," said teams scrambling for tournament tops the Cornhuskers in rebounding Dutcher. "What happens Thursday positions arc Ohio State, Indiana, Il­this year, with an average of9.6. will set the stage for Saturday. All of linois and Purdue. Iowa has an 11-3 
Like Notrt: Dame, Nebraska is in­our preparations ar .c for Michigan." record to l0-4 for Minnesota. Ohio undated with freshmen. Six first· State and Indiana arc 9·5 and Illinois year players -two of them starters Dutcher also called the Big Ten and Purdue are 8-6. 

For the Weather or Whatever. PUT YOUR FINGER ON THE FUN. 
CALL MICHIGAN'S WHAT'S LINES! 
Toll Free 

800-248-5708 
r-Jrfi..

24-hour recorded messages keep you up-to-date on Michigan snow 
V..<
conditions. 
Q/

800-248-5700 
Our travel specialists will give ----"-'~ [) ;' you all you need to know about all there is to ski and do in Michigan. Call between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. E.S.T., Monday through Friday. 
MICHIGAN TRAVEL BURE~ 

" 
Editor's note: The following is an up-dated version ofa column writ­ten in advance ofthe Notre Dame­DePaul game in February•, 1980. Notre Dame defeated the Demons, the No. I team in the country, 76­74, in double overtime. 
By BILL MARQUARD 
Sports Writer 

CfUCAGO -As DePaul Basket~ ball Coach Ray Meyer trudged into his office after practice. he was ob­viously spent. After a lengthy lunch­eon engagement, a hard two-hour practice and an hour of interviews after the workout, it seemed as if Meyer had answered aU the ques­tions -most of them a hundred times. 
With a labored yet warm smile, DePaul's coach of 40 years settled into a padded chair behind his desk for yet another interview. 
"Coach, let's forget about basket­ball for awhile," I suggested. "Tell us what it was like at Notre Dame." 
Meyer, a 1938 Notre Dame graduate, leaned back in his chair. A glimmer twinkled in his eyes, and a faint smile began to inch across his ruddy complexion. 
It was a question he hadn't been asked, but was glad to answer. 
"Oh, we didn't have any of the freedom you fellows have now," he explained. "You guys complain ­
Notre Dame and DePaul will write another chapter in the history we only had one night a month oftheir basketball rivalry this weekend at the ACC. The Irish will be 
when wecould stay out 'till mid­
out to avenge last yeaf's loss to the Demons. DePaul, meanwhile, 
night. still remembers the 76-74 double overtime loss here in 1980. "lights had to be out by 10 p.m. 
• • . but is loyal to DePaul 
Editor's note: The following is an up-dated version ofa story written 
two years ago prior to Dame-DePaul game.  the Notre  
By GARY GRASSEY Sports Writer  
CHICAGO  The  trophies,  

plaques, and various other kudos that now sit on the table in front of Rav Mever's desk and hang from the 
poweRs anO Gl~ts 
toR all occass1ons 

.'~me .ROWse. 
WvGant rtoRal co. 327 llncolnway 

wall of his office are just gravy. and aged features display a1l the These past four seasons, Ray Meyer wear and tear of 40 years on the has had more invitations to awards sidelines. banquets than most Hollywood When he speaks, though, his stars. players respond as ifthe quartermas­
It's taken a long time for people to ter had just cracked the whip. The notice a man who has only won 674 strain and pressure of being among games during his 40 years at Depaul. the nation's best is abandoned as He has made the game his life, and Meyer blows up at lackadaisical while passing up jobs with more passes and missed assignments. He prestige and more money, Meyer would have treated Mikan, his sons, has made DePaul his life as well. Aguirre, or any ofhis former players 
From George Mikan down to his the same way. sons Tom and Joey, who started un­And they love him for it. der Meyer in the late Sixties and ear­"We just love Coach around ly Se.venties, to Mark Aguirre and here," saiys one fan . T1erry Cummings, DePaul basketball · Another Demon die-hard moans, is "Coach." "I'm sick and tired of hearing God 
Ray Meyer is a born-and-bred made DePaul No. 1. Ray Meyer made Chicagoan, and he has devoted all DePaul No. l, and he's the closest his energy toward teaching young thing to God we've got." men about discipline and winning Meyer has come through it all and losing. with a simple philosophy. "You're al­
As he struts onto the floor at ways a good coach when you win," Alumni Hall in his practice gear, he claims. Coach Meyer looks like anything but "I can't even answer the letters a basketball coach. His waddling gait anymore. They're fine, but it all takes 
me away from the team more than 
WASHINGTON D. C. CLUB 
Sign-ups for the springbreakbus will beThursday, February25 from 7:30-9:30·pmonthe first floor LaFortune. $70.00 ro1md trip is needed to reserve a seat. 
I'd like." 

just as Meyer h;.s great praise for Notre Dame, so does Digger Phelps for Meyer. 
"I just really respect him," the Notre Dame coach says. "I think the anicle in Sports Illustrated a while ago said it best when it talked about his son joey staying on at DePaul. He stayed after his playing days to help recruiting because he wanted Ray to go out a winner. That's the kind of man ray Meyer is." 
The Observer-Sports Thursday, February 25, 1982-page 12 

Meyer has Irish roots . • • 
We had to study by candlelight in the johns so the priests wouldn't find us." 
A resident of Brownson, St. Ed's, Howard and Walsh Ha1ls, the 68­year old mentor also lived under the Dome for a while -under the watchful eye of Brother Austin. 
''I can still remember coming in . real late one night after a basketbaJI tournament my freshman year," recalled Meyer as he shook his head. "I was the only one who had permis­sion, but there were two other guys with me. I walked up to the desk to sign in -we had to in those days. 
"I walked up the steps, and Brother turned to me and said "Alright, Ray, I signed the ot~er two in too."' 
Despite the discipline, boys were 
still boys. Austin had the habit of 
coming around and closing the cur­
tains every night, a ritual of which 
one of Meyer's friends, Ralph Jack­
owski, could not help but take ad­
vantage. 

"Jackowski tied a black thread to 
my cunains and kept pullling them 
open whenever Brother closed 
them. 

"I think we spent three nights 
sleeping on benches in the locker­
room for that," Meyer added matter­
of-factly. "Jackowski was crazy." 

RayMeyer-1936 

As for the food, the DePaul coach surprisingly contended he was hap­py with it. 
"I came from a very poor home," the HaJI-of-Famer admitted sheepishly. "Everyone else com­plained about the food. I enjoyed it." 
Two  teachers  stand  out  in  his  
mind, Meyers said.  
"I  had  a  guy  named  Frank  

O'MaJley for freshman English. he had graduated with the highest grades ever attained in the liberal arts school. 
''I'll never forget, I was sitting in the back on my first day ofclass, and this guy was usng words 16. letters long," the coach said. 
"He kept going and goini, and I started to laugh a little. He wore glasses and was a little bit of a guy. This little guy came right down the aisle, stopped in front of me, and said; 'Even the timid can commit murder.' I'll never forget that.'' 
Times have changed, and Meyer was reveling in his memories. 
"You don't have anything like pencils up, pencils down, do you?" he asked. 
"Raymond Murray used to teach sociology. When you walked into the room you had a paper at your desk with your name on it. He would say, 'The question for today is ...,' but you couldn't write anything un­til he said 'pencils up.' 
"We'd write for a while, and as soon as Murray said, 'pencils down,' that was where we had to be. Orie more letter and he'd walk back and 
-tear up your paper," Meyer recalled 
with the enthusiasm of an alumnus 
at a reunion. 

"Of course, you don't have any­thing like that now." 
A member ofthe national Catholic high school championship team in 1932, Meyer enjoyed an eventful Irish basketball career, serving as the squad's captain in both his junior and senior years. He still works un­der the watchful eye of his Notre Dame coach, George Keogan, whose ptcture hangs abQve the desk oc­
cupied by each DePaul captain. 

Yet there was one time when the eventual DePaul coach and the entire Irish squad upset keogan, and it was on that day, December 13, 1937, .VIeyer got his t1rst taste of coaching. 
"We were playing Wisconsin, and weren't playing well. At halftime we were losing." explained the man whose record as Irish captain was 40-6. "Coach Keogan said. 'To hell with you guys. You won't even listen 
_ to me,' and he went up in .to the 
stands. That left me to coach-ifte 
second half. 

··we kicked the hell out Of Wi-;­consin," Meyer recalled. He had his first coaching win, albeit unoft1cial, 33-31. 
Ironically, it was almost 33 years to the day, December 12, 1980, that Meyer notched his 600th coaching 
~-­
Upon graduation, Meyer per­formed many of the duties his son, joey, now does for him. Living in Chicago, the graduate-turned-social­worker scouted upcoming op­ponents for Keogan until the Notre Dame coach arranged for an inter­view for Meyer at Catholic High Shool in Joliet, III. Meyer turned down the job offerred because he needed $1,800 instead ofthe $1,700 that came with the position. But on returning home to Chicago, he got an unexpected caJI from Notre Dame. 
"They offerred me a job as Keogan's assistant," he said. "I was there Monday morning." 
Though he served as interim coach while Keogan later recovered from a bean-attack, Meyer refused to take any ofthe credit. 
"I have no victories anywhere ex­cept Depaul," he explained. "I never took credit for a win -orfora loss." 
One would have to twist Meyer's arm before the coach would admit that, during the two seasons in which he sometimes coached, the Irish were 33-ll. 
"Notre Dame has been evry good to me,'' the 1979 Coach-of-the-Year 
reflected.  "I  madea  lot  of great  
friends  Moose  Krause,  Fr.  
Cavanaugh - I even had Fr, Hes­ 

burgh in one ofmy classes, although I didn't realize that until later. 
"Notre Dame is still very good to me. I think if it hadn't been for Digger Phelps, I wouldn't have been named 'Coach-of-the-Year. I think he told off all the coaches that didn't vote for me." 

Ray Meyer-1982 

Meyer also has fond memories of 
Fr. joyce. 

"Several years ago we could not give out scholarships because of a certain ruling. I was at a Notre Dame affair and I seemed pretty depressed. As I drove Fr. Joyce back to the train, he asked me why I was down. 
"I told him we couldn't give scholarships," Meyer recalled with a shrug, "and he told me he'd send me some information about how the Big 
l 0 schools were handling the ruling. 
I took the information to our presi­
dent and it convinced him. He said I 
could give scholarships if I wanted 
-that it didn't matter." 
see MEYER page 11 

FATHERHESBURGH wLQQ gay u\Jlagg fp~t th(~ JJCO -guUc CRtght to ~iff CQub iJ1 gac!ted ffiealtt Chu1rr.h. v•day. 9-'eb!tualty 25., 19g2 at 5:15 ~m. 
Through the maze of correspon­dence, and the crush for interviews, Meyer makes time for everyone he can possibly squeeze in. He still makes it to his favorite restaurant for a bite with the team and a moment with the locals who've known him since the lean years at DePaul. 
"I've had plenty oflucrative offers to leave here," Coach remarks. "But I don't like to change. I'm very happy where I am." 
And they are glad to have him. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer -Sports Thursday, February 25, 1982 -page 13 

Busyseason 
Nicklaus shoots for win 
MIAMI (AP) -The TPA pro goi; tour moves to the East this week with jack Nicklaus considering the possibility of -for him -a rare, four consecutive weeks ofcompeti­tion. 
Nicklaus, who hasn't finished lower than third in three starts this year, will start that string -the bulk of his pre-Masters preparation -in the $300,000 Doral-Eastern Open this week, the first stop on the tour's traditional four-week Florida swing. 
He's also committed for Arnold 

Palmer's Bay Hill Classic in Orlando 
next week and the imponant 
Tournament Players Championship 
at Ponte Vedra, Fla. March 18-21. 
In between is the Honda­

Inverrary Classic at Lauderhill, only 
a few miles down the coast from 
Nicklaus' home in North Paim 
Beach. He is not yet committed to 
that one, but is leaning in that direc­
tion. 
There are two reasons for the pos­sibility of this unusual departure from his normal schedule. Nicklaus has played four weeks in a row only once since his rookie season of 
1962. 
"I hate to miss a tournament in my own backyard," he said before a practice round over the famed Blue Monster course at the Dora! Country Club, site of the 72-hole chase that begins Thursday. 
And, he said, "it's important, from a confidence standpoint, to win something before I get to Augusta." 
•• • With thehelpofhis teammates 
BUFFALO, N.Y. (AP) -His Ed­monton Oilers teammates don't measure the value ofWayne Gretzky merely by the phenomenal statistics he compiles. To them, he is much more than a scoring machine. 
"Everyone else expects things of him, like scoring goals every night and getting all those points," said left wing Mark Messier prior to last night's National Hockey League game between the Oilers and Buf­falo Sabres-a game in which Gretzky set out to break the single season goal-scoring record of 76. "But we don't go out there expecting Wayne to do anything specific. We just know he'U find a way to help us win." 
Gretzky, the 21-ycar-old Oilers center who already holds the NHL record for most points and assists in a season, scored his 76th goal of the campaign last Sunday in Detroit. That tied him with Phil Esposito, who scored 76 times in 78 games for Boston in 1970-71. Gretzky got his 76 in 63 games, and also had 171 points in those 63 contests, breaking the NHL mark of 164 he set last season. 
"We're never really surprised by what he docs because he does some­thing extraordinary every night," added Messier, who is having his finest professional season and was a staner in the NHL all-Star Game. 
"We knew he was going to get the records but the way he lifts the team is what is most imponant to us." 
Messier feels the rest ofthe Oilers have been trying to lift Gretzky past Esposito and It has hun the club's overall performance. And he said that as the Oilers carried a seven­game unbeaten streak into the con­test with Buffalo, which they beat in their only previous meeting this season, 3-I in Edmonton. 
"In the last couple of games, all we've tried to do is get him the puck," said Messier. 
It's always wise to feed a player 
like Gretzky but, according to Mes­
sier and Glenn Anderson, there are 
times not to pass to No. 99. 
"I~ one game," said Anderson, 
"Paul Colley had a break-away and 
Lafgentdecideshewill refuse tojoinstrike 
SEATTLE (AP) -All'pro wide receiver Steve Largent of the Seattle Seahawks says he will refuse to walk out if the National Football League players strike next season against the NFL's 28 owners. 
He says he strongly opposes the 

NFL Players Association's stated ob­
jective of 55 percent of the league's 
gross revenue. 
The players' collective bargaining agreement with the Management Council, which represents the owners, expiresjuly 15. 
"First ofall," Largent said in an in­terview Tuesday, "I don't know if there's going to be a strike. 
"But I've definitely made my deci­sion. I'm unwavering In my options on what I would do. I really look at it under the three priorities I have in my life. 
"One is that I'm a Christian and God's word calls a contract a vow. I've made a vow with the Seattle Seahawks that I'm going to play foot­ball three more years because I'm under contract that many years. To break that vow would be wrong. 
"Secondly, I'm a father and I have a responsibility to take care of my family. I feel that God has given me the ability and put me in a position to play football and that it would be wrong to strike and rob myselfofthe position that God has put me in. 
"Thirdly, I wouldn't strike for the reason that they (the NFLPA) would ask me to right now. 
"Because ofthe first two priorities I have in my life, as far as being a Christian and a father, I wouldn't strike for any reason. I don't think that's a viable means to attain what we want to attain -no matter what the terms arc." 
Largent, a six-year pro who has caught 365 passes for 6,041 yards and 46 touchdowns in his NFL career, said he was admonished about speaking out by Gene Up­shaw, NFLPA president. Upshaw, an offensive lineman, is a 15-year veteran ofthe Oakland Raiders. 
Largent said he received a letter from Upshaw Monday after some of his comments criticizing the NFLPA for its 55-percent revenue plan were printed in a national football publication. 
The Seahawks' star said he was trying to contact Upshaw by telephone about the letter which he said "upset" him. 
"The letter from Gene said that I should not say publicly how I feel. I disagree with that. I don't have a choice ifI pay $792 annually for my union dues. 
"I think I should have an option to voice my opinion even if it's not the majority," said Largent. "I can under­stand their (the union's) viewpoint that my voicing my opinion may weaken their position, but maybe they don't have the majority that they think they have. 
.~·~Klaus, now 42 and generally regarded as the finest player the game has produced, hasn't won a regular tour event since summer 1978, but picked off two major titles, the U.S. Open and the PGA, in 1980. 
But he's come close this year. Very close. 
He came within one stroke of making the playoff for the $SOO,OOO first prize in golfs first $1 million tournament, in southern Africa the first week ofthe season. In two starts on the American tour, he was second by one shot in San Diego and third in the Crosby. 
"Actually, I've played pretty weU, but I just haven't been able to make the putts when I needed them," Nicklaus said. 
He has a history of strong play in Florida. He's won this event twice and once lost in a playoff to Ray 
Floyd, has won twice at Inverrary 
and is the only three-time winner of 
the Tournament Players Champion t­
ship. 
Floyd, who has taken the Dora! 
title the last two years, obviously 
ranks as the chief contender for the 
S54,000 first prize here. 
Other leading lights in the 144­man field include PGA chamion Lar­ry Nelson, Lee Trevino, Jerry Pate. Andy Bean, Hubert Green, Tom Weiskopf, and 1982 title-winners Ed Fiori, Wayne Levi and Craig Stadler. 
The international lineup is topped by Seve Ballesteros of Spain, lsao Aoki ofjapan, Bobby Cole of South Africa, Mark James of England and Jim Nelford ofCanada. 
Portions of the final two rounds Saturday and Sunday will be televised nationally by CBS. 
Gretzkybreaksrecord , scores 77thgoal ... < 
BUFFALO, N.Y. (AP!) -Wayne Grctzky smashed the National Hock­ey League record for goals in one season last night, scoring his 77th of the campaign with a 10-foot wrist shot with 6:36 remaining in a game against the Buffalo Sabres. 
Gretzky, who staned the nigh .t with 76 goaJs, the same number ac­cumulated by Phil Esposito of Bos­ton in 1970-71, beat Sabres goalie Don Edwards to lift the Oilers into a 4-3 lead. Gretzky stole the puck from Buffalo's Steve Patrick and put it under Edwards. 
The goal-scoring mark gave Gretzky a sweep of the NHL's major individual offensive records. He set the points and assists marks last season with 164 and 109, respectively. This year, Gretzky al­ready has 174 points, surpassing his own record. 
Gretzky tied Esposito's goal­scoring mark last Sunday night in Detroit. l 
As he was in Detroit, Esposito was on hand at the Sabres game to con­gratulate the 21-year-old center. 

lllnmtnin &wNtglft 
apportunities in Law school and the field of Law in general. 
This meeting is applicable to both men and women. &pnnsnreil bu N.IttJre-uw &nrutu 
Applications ate now a vallable fot commiSSIONERS and COmPTROLLERS 

And can be picked up at S.U. Office 2nd Floor Lafortune 
"Setting this record will be some­thing I'll be very proud of," said Grctzky before last night's game. "And not just for me, because the team has played such a big pan in it. It will be something for all of us to share." 
Also in the capacity crowd-tick­ets for Gretzky and the Oilers' only appearance here this season all were sold within an hour when they were offered for public sale a month ago ·-was Gretzky's father, Walter. Gretzky grew up in Brantford, Ont., .about a two-hour drive from Buffalo. 

he passed it." 
"We're all so conscious of it," added Messier. "We know we'U loosen up after he breaks the record, and get the flow going again." 
Gretzky was anxious to score the 77th goal here because his father, Walter, and Esposito were to be in the sellout crowd. 
"It would have been great to get it at home (in Edmonton)," he said, realizing that the Oilers have six more road games before returning to Nonhlands Coliseum. "But I also liked the idea ofgetting it t here be­cause it's close to Brantford (Ontario, where he grew up). And I understand Phil's going to follow me until I score. I don't think it would be fair of me to make him chase me all over the country." 


----~--~--~-~ 
The Observer-Sports Thursday, February 25, 1982-page 14 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's ski team wtll send everyone with their success last week in the East five members to the National Invitational Club meet Division races. in Vat/, Col. this weekend. The team surprised 
10-lOtie 
Observer, WSNDbattleonice 
By J~CQUES L'HEREUX 
Sports Writer 
WSND scored each of the first four times it had the puck, and took an early commanding lead last night in an epic battle against The Ob­server. 
Dave Dziedzic, playing in the first hockey game of his life, put on a remarkable display in goal, and held WSND relatively at bay the rest of the way, however, as the writers came from behind to tie the game at 
10. ' That's the way it ended, and the question of sports superiority among the campus media has yet to be resolved. 
The Observer staff, behind the 
entire game, battled back on the 
strength ofseven goals by Tony Aiel­
lo. Without question, Aiello was the class player in the game, far out­distancing all bu WSND's Dave Crawford in terms ofability. 
Crawford scored six of WSND's goals, including the key game-tier, which came with just three seconds on the clock. With that goal, he swiped the victory that, until that time, The Observer staff believed it had well within its grasp. 
sion (New York, Ohio, Indiana and Michigan) of the national qualifying races held in Michigan two weeks 
DAnONA BEACH 
SPRING BREAK 
IWIII:INA DIWICI ... a a davt/7 nights ~u~ur­loul lodging at the 'tt'tiiWiall Inn on the beach near ll'le l)lell a· Oc:eamont HoM~ 
0 ~ Polly Bus In rnar't¥ a.ll 0 Welccme Polly 
OSports~ 
0,.~ 
0 Dllrvt Wald Opllon 
Only $119 
D4YTONA ICOHOMY ... . . 8 doiS/7 night) at the Diplomat IIIIQch Molel 
Oceanlront IOCigong 
{ ' Optional Polly !Ius .,., monv01eas 
WoJicome Polly 
'.: Sports Ac:IMhes 
.. All to.. ' : Dilnev Wald Option 


$99 
.,. 
ago. She finished 5th overall in the entire Midwest among 80 women, but may bypass the Nationals due to
FORT lAUDERDALE 
the shortages of time and money.

SPRING BREAK 
Both the men and women racing teams for the Irish
: 8 dof'/7 nights lodging at the beoultflll l?lvielo Hotel foClng 1t1e ocean in the 
placed in the top five among the 13 teams that were 
heart d l.ouc*dolel 
invited to the Midwest "National Qualifying Races" in 
. . Oceontront Holel 
Brule, Michigan. Leading the men's overall finish in the 
Optional Polly 8ua in mortV -
Poolslde ~IXIf'V 
m eet were Tharp, Hilbert and Hewson, along with 
Sports Ac:livitlel 
junior Sean Chandler and sopomore Mike Maas. The All to-
women were paced by the consisterw: performances of senior Renee Nacheff, junior Sue Hull, sophomores
.$139 
Teresa Abrams and Beth Mahrer and freshman Kate Gaf­fney. The outstanding Saint Mary's trio of Meyer, Smig­
JOHN HREBEC 

gen and sophomore Colleen D\\'Yer raced as individuals in the met:t. Each placed in the overall Top 20 among
PIIHe: 213-1216 
the 80 of the top women ski-racers in the Midwest. 
....,.: 5:30-7:00,. 
What makes these accomplishments all the mort:
u:oo-u:oo,. 

amazing is that most of the competition is against scholarship ract:r~ for teams that practice every day. Notre-Dame-Saint Mary's practice weeks consist of the meet held on the previous weekend. 
The season concluded for the teams last weekend 
Aiello, playing with a broken ster­prior experience, and outplayed num, repeatedly skated the length of them for 30 ofthe 40 minutes. the ice, scoring at the conclusion of his end-to-end rushes. "After those first quick goals, we 
Crawford did the same, proving outhustled them. We even scored himselfwell worthy ofhis nickname, 10 goals to their six. Tony Aiello and Dave "The Wave." Dave Dziedzic made all the dif­
'It took a while to settle down," ference." said the surprising Dziedzic after the game. "But after I got loose, I felt The series is now at 2-0-1, and good. WSND Captain Brian "Action Jock" 
"The defense played great in front Reimer says, "A great rivalry is just of me. I just wish we could have beginning." 
won." 

The game was the first in the inter­
If there is such a thing as moral media series to be broadcast live, victories, last night's game was just with WSND listeners hearing every that for The Observer. Despite bit of the action from the North published reports, WSND had Dome of the ACC. dominated the rivalry through meetings in two previous sports. There are no immediate plans for Last spring, the announcers upset a further games, but both sides agreed heavily-favored Observer team in a to play more contests. The next 
Bookstore basketball special event. forseeable event will be arematch of In the fall, the radio men again were last spring's stirring basketball game. 
victorious, as "Wild" Bill Dempsey led them to a softball win. 
Wational Ski~Championships 
"We played a great game tonight," said coach and part-time skater Skip Desjardin. "WSND had an actual 
Skiiers break into bigtime 
plan, with real lines and everything. 
We just went out there, with no 
As if the regular season hasn't left a fine taste in the mouths of Notre Dame-Saint Mary's ski-team members, the gravy is still to be added for five ofits members. 
Seniors Barry Tharp and Steve Hilbert and sopho­more Kim Hewson, along with Saint Mary's senior Sharon Smiggen have qualified and been invited to represent their clubs this weekend in Vail, Colorado for the "National Invitational Club Ski-Meet." Student skiers from all over t_he United States, as well as representatives from South America and Europe, com­pete in this annual all-star event. Meanwhile, Saint­Mary's sophomore Teri Meyer qualified for the "National Ski-Championships" to be held in Idaho two weeks from now. Meyer placed 1st in the Eastern Divi­

Wildcats finish home schedulewithbigwin 
LEXINGTON, Ky. (AP)-Derrick Hord scored six points during a 16-4 landslide that helped No.7 Kentucky thrash Mississippi State 71-54 in a Southeastern Conference basketball game last night. 
The Wildcats reeled off 10 straight points during the streak, including a steal and layup by Hord and consecutive baskets by Dicky Beal, to take a 30-14 lead. Jeff Nor­wood broke the ice for State with an 18-footer that brought the Bulldogs within 30-16 at the break. 
The victory boosted Ketcky to 20­5 overall, 13-4 in the SEC, and ran the Wildcats' Rupp Arena winning streak to 28 games. 
The Bulldogs fell to 6-18 and 3-14. 
Jim Master opened the scoring with a 20-footer and a lay-up, help-_ ing Kentucky jump to a 10-2 lead. A basket by Norwood and two free throws by Jeff Malone helped nar­row the g:lp to 1·4-1 0 with 8: 1 7 left in the half. Melvin Turpin then jammed home a missed shot to start Kentucky's decisive run. 
The Wildcats led by as many as 1 7 points on five occasions in the second half. 
Iowa lea4s Big 1 0; denies any ~~lump" 
But Iowa also lost to Michigan last ByJOE MOOSHD.. Saturday, and Coach Olsen admits Associated Press that the Hawkeyes should have won. 
Iowa Coach Lute Olson is a mild­Another game the Hawkeyes 
mannered individual but mention should win is at home Thursday 
the word "slump" in connection night against last-place Wisconsin 
with his Hawkeyes and his feathers before squaring off against Min­
become ruffled. nesota on Saturday in a pivotal con­
"What slump?" said Olson, whose test. Iowa then finishes the regular 
Hawkeyes have lost two of their last season on the road at Illinois and 
three games but still hold a one­Purdue. 
game lead over Minnesota in the Big "The history and tradition of the Ten race. "We've won 19 and lost Big Ten, with rare exceptions, is that only four, we're in first place in the .the race goes down to the final week Big Ten and we're still ranked na­and tlie final games," said Olson. "All tionally. We lost a game at Indiana, of us have difficult games left." but anybody who goes to Indiana Behind Iowa and Minnesota are and expects to win should have his 
see IOWA page 11
head examined." 

Hord finished with 20 points to lead Kentucky, while Turpin added I 7 and Master 12. Malone led all scorers with 24 points, including 16 in the second half. 
The game marked the final home appearance of Kentucky seniors Chuck Verderber, a startingforward, and reserve guard Bo Lanter. 
Lanter took advantage of the op­portunity to score a career-high eight points, but his most spec­tacular achievement didn't show up on the score sheet. 
With only one second left to play, Lanter took an inbounds pass and lofted what was intended to be the last shot ofthe game. Amazingly, the ball went in, triggering a roar from the capacity crowd. 
The basket was cancelled, 
however, because Lanter was fouled 
before he launched the shot. He sank 
two free throws to give him his 
career scoring high. 

Verderber, meanwhile, got one 
basket in his last game before the 
home crowd. 

The victory gave Kentucky, col­lege basketball's winriingest school, a record 31st 20-win season. 

with tfit:-four-state EasternRegionaf championship~. The men were paced by their aforementioned quintet to capture the third-place bronze plaque out of the 21 teams that competed. The story of the meet, however, was the 1-2 finish that the Saint Mary's and Notrt; Dame women's team had among the 14 teams in the slalom event. Among the teams that Belles and Irish women outskiied were the Midwest Champion Michigan State Spartans that will compete for the National Champion­ship in Idaho. In the giant-slalom, Saint Mary's finished second while Notre Dame was third. Four women from Saint Mary's (Dwyer, Smiggen, Meyer and her freshman sister, Melissa Meyer), and two from Notre D~me (Gaffney and fellow freshman Julie Currie) finished in the top ten out ofthe 55 women that competed. 
"There's no -telling what tht: Notre Dame women would have done if Teresa Abrams (the number one racer for the team) had also competed," said club­president,Tharp. "The Saint Mary's team along with the Notre Dame men have traditionally done well over the years in racing while the Notre Dame women never won anything. This year they have been cleaning up with the awards every week. "All the honors this year have been a pleasant surprise," he continues, "but they are all secondary to our going out for our own enjoy­ments." 
As Hilbert summarizes, "Wt: have been pushing things on our trips to the limit this year, and even though things have gotten crazy at times, we all pulled this season off with style." 
-----~---------­
--------------------------------------------~-------------------------------------­
Ihe~er========================================= 
~~4()[C)l~-~============================T=h=u=r=sd=a=y=,F=e=b=r=u=ary==2=5=,=1=9=8=2===p=a=g===el5
Molarity 

/-If' fi'/4C. £ D 77-JE VDME Ill EXPL..OPt: AND lfl6 HfH~INC:D UP 
TltE~C: IJAIT7NC, FoR HLS Dci-1ANI>5 /7J BE HE;;T 



The Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 
Michael Molinelli 
BUT NOW I? THe ENO./ It£ 6£T.S ITAU-12>P-IYI I'vE. CALL.£P IN TH£ HIOI/A-IIJA AlP. PATF(OL 


Ga~ry_ Trudeau 

NOll/, IJElJIJlHKNall )(XIOIJN'TJ() ANYTH/NS 7HiffHASN78fEN6()(/ofj 
tNAIWV/)11#/(R~ 1M 


ACROSS 1 Bactrian 6 Tryst 

10 Predicate 
part 14 Speechify 15 Screen star 16 Seed coat 17 Up 18 Preserves 20 On the 
double: 
abbr. 21 Abound 23 Quoted 24 Western 

Indians 26 Battle reminders 29 Purify 
32 It multi-57 Blue plies by 60 Carter and dividing Vanderbilt 
35 Mar 62 Rifle 36 Makes happy 65 Rapid 38 Hirt and succession 
Pacino of shots 40 Reconcile 68 Escape 42 H.S. subj. 70 Athena 43 Rive 71 Ring stone 45 Strew grass 72 Low point 46 Goodbyes in 73 Wheat 
Grenoble disease 49 River to 74 Civil wrong the Seine 75 Notting­50 Trafalgar ham's river 
hero 52 Rapid -DOWN 54 Flower 1 Business 56 Instigate org. 
2 Barren

Wednesday's Solution 3 Costumed affair 
.IPIAISITIA-IIIAIS~ 4 Somma IPIAIS IT IOIRIS IP IS IT lEU 
summerIAISISIYIRIIIA IE IIITIRIEIA 5 Suggestive

ISITIU. IE ~·IIICJI 
of fasting

ITIIIRIE IV ~IPIAIIIL 
6-novelIEIMIEIN IE.riiiAILITIS 

7 White House IOIEISIPII ;. IEIRISIE. 

name

1-LIAII[()-T IALR­.IAIVIAINIT.IBIU IT lOIN UIP 
8 Craggy hill IC lAIN • lAIR iSITIEINIO 
9 Shadetree IH INIE. IHIIINIA.SIPIAIT 
10 Satchel lA IE liP~~ 
11 Part of IF IS Hll IN IPIIICITIU R 
lAIN : •r 
QED IESIS IN IE ISITIAIIIN R 
12 Emulate -A NIT lA 10 10 IE 0 • 
Turcotte 13 Extorted 19 Over 22 Existence 25 Pack 27 Violin 

string material 28 Soul, in 
St. Lo 29 Gab 30 Burdened 31 May or 
Stritch 33 Handrail 34 Court plea 37 Pub fare 39 Printing 
term 41 Fez topper 44 Glass sheet 47 Period 48 Medical 
picture 51 Range rope 53 Missing 55 Speed 
detector 57 From a 
distance 58 African 59 Employs 61 Defrost 63 Wotan 64 Lanceor 
Parks 66 Fate 67 Gl address 69 Altema· 
tive: abbr. 
Campus 
•12: 
15 p.m. -Lenten Mass, Fr. Griffin, Basement of LaFortune 

•4 
p.m.-Seminar, "H2 Production in the Heavy Ion Radiolysis of Benzene", Dr. jay LaVerne, Radia­tion Lab Conference Theatre, Sponsored by Radia­tion Labratory 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting, The Society For Creative Anachronism, LaFortune Little Theatre 

• 
7 p.m. -Meeting, Circle K Club, LaFortune Little Theatre 

•7 
p.m. -Class series, "Natural Family Plan­ning", Hayes Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by Campus Ministry 

•7 
p.m. -Computer Class, Computer Con­sciousness, M-115 Computer Center/Math Build­ing 

•7:30 
p.m. -Basketball, Notre Dame Women vs. Nebraska, ACC, Free admission 

•7:30 
p.m. -Reading, David Wagoner, Memorial Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Sophomore Literary Festival 

•s 
p.m. -Lecture, "Duncan Grant: Painter of Bloomsbury", Dr. Paul Roche, English poet, Annen­berg Auditorium, Snite Museum ofArt 

•1 
0 p.m. -Meeting, Big Sky Club (Montana Club), Grace Hall Penthouse, Election of officers, spring break plans, Call 283-6713 if unable to at­tend 

•10:30 
p.m.-WSND Radio, ND Week in Review, AM-64 

•11 
:00 p.m. -WSND Radio, Album Hour, "Renegade", Thin Lizzy, AM-64 


Today in History 
7:00p.m. 16 MASH 22 CBS New~ 28 Joker's Wild 34 The Ma<.·Neii/Lc:hrcr Report 46 Rev. David Paul 
7:30p.m. 16 The Muppet Show 22 family l'eud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 46 W. V. Grant 
8:00p.m. 16 I'ame 22 Magnum. P.l. 28 That"s lncredihk 34 !'>neak Preview' 46 Lester Sumrall Teachin~: 
8:30p.m. 34 This Old Bou,t· 46 Pattern l'or Living 9:00p.m. 16 Diffrent Strokes 22 CBS Special: "Muggabk Mary: Street 
Cop" 28 Barney Miller 34 Austin City Limits 46 Today with Lester Sumrall 
9:30p.m. 16 Ditfrent Strokes 28 Taxi 
lO:OOp.m. 16 Hill Street Blues 22 Nurse 28 A Barbara Walters Special 34 Michigan Outdoors 46 Jack Van lmpc 
10:30p.m. 34 Training Dogs The Woodhouse Way 46 faith For Today 
ll:OOp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Er,ewltncss News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The Dick Cavett Show 46 Praise Tht· Lord 
11:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Quincy/McMillan and Wife 28 ABC News Nightline 34 Captioned ABC News 
12:00a.m. 28 Vegal> 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 
12:30a.m. 16 Late Night With David Letterman 28 Vegas 46 Sharing 
1:40a.m. 28 late Night Newsbrid 
th€ 1982 SophomoRe liteRaRy j:est1val PR€s€nts. 
~+-----DAVID WAGONER-short story writer----" lhursday Feb. 25 Reading 7:30 Library Auditorium 
Friday Feb. 26 Workshop 1:30 Library Lounge 
w---'l5USAN FROMBERG SCHAEFFER novelist_ Friday Feb. 26 Reading 7:30 Library Auditorium 
Doyou want to see the sunrise? 

Visit ~--jBAtft tonight to view the rJIQYPJD£& G'G!T..lill~ andlist.en to the musicofSantana! 
Tomorrow: Sat. Nite: ICE CREAM DRINKS! JAZZ NIGHT! 

·'J· 
Debbie Hensley ( r.) shows the defensive form that made Notre Dame the No. 1 defensive team in the country for three consecutive weeks earlier this 
Against Nebraska 
DiStanislaolooksfor iplprovement 
Thursday, February 25, 1982-page 16 
Notre Dame leads series-writh Demons 
ENTER THE DEMON -The Irish basketball team plays host to DePaul on Sunday in what has rapidly become one of the premier intercollegiate rivalries in the country. The Irish own a convincing 41-25 edge over DePaul in a series which will be contested for the 40th straight season. The Irish and Blue Demons faced off twice during the I 91 l-I2 season, and began the current string ofgames in I942-43, playing twice a year between the '45-'46 and '68-'69 seasons. 
Demon Head Coach Ray Meyer, a 1938 graduate of Notre Dame 
who captained the '36-'37 and '37-'38 squads under Irish coach 
George Keogan, has been DePaul's coach in 64 of the previous 66 
meetings between the two teams. 
Digger Phelps is 7-4 against the Blue Demons, and the Irish have captured four ofthe last seven games. The Irish own a 6-1 advantage over DePaul in the ACC ( 4-1 under Phelps), with DePaul's lone win being a 69-68 overtime decision in 1977-78, the year the Irish went to the Final Four. Notre Dame later avenged that loss with an 84-64 victory in the NCAA Midwest Regional Championships. Counting Notre Dame's 76-74 overtime upset at the ACC in 1980 (when the Blue Demons were 25-0 and ranked number one in the country), the last two Irish-DePaul clashes in the ACC have both been decided in overtime by a total ofthree points. 
By MARK HANNUKSELA 
Sports Writer 

Things could get a little rough at the ACC tonight, and for the sake ofa lot ofpeople, they had better. 
One of those people is Notre Dame women's baketball coach Mary DiStanislao, and she'll be looking for a good measure of im­provement from her 1.quad as it prepares for the invasion of the Nebraska Cornhuskers. 
DiStanislao is not one to find satis­faction in reducing a margin of defeat from 76 to 22 pints. Nor is she one to find satisfaction in a week that saw her team surrender 52 more 
On theice 
pints than it scored. 

DiStanislao is ready to stop her club's two-game slide dead in its tracks, an her players had better be ready to do the same, lest they in­tend to bear the wrath of their firey head coach a little while longer. 
The Irish can avoid that un­pleasantry by doing to Nebraska what it did to Michigan a month ago. Nearly everything went right for Notre Dame that day, as it bombed the Wolverines 7I-48. With the ex­ception of the 26 turnovers they committed, the Irish turned in a solid performance that day. 
They have not had one since. Tonight, they get another chance, and perhaps it's just coincidence, but the team they will face isL _ according to DiStanislao, very similar to the one that came to the ACC a month ago. 
"Nebraska is a team similar to Michigan in that they like to runa and gun," says DiStanislao. "Their game is in the backcourt -they either use three guards or two guards and a small forward. They're all great athletes that can push the ball up and down the floor." 
The Michigan squad Notre Dame pounded was a rather potent of­fensive machine._ They scored a lot 
see DISTANISLAO page 11 
Schmidt, Brotvn defend Irish 
By MICHAEL WILKINS 
Sports Writer 

A major reason for the success of the Notre Dame hockey team in the last few weeks has been the overall improvement of the team's defense. Though a great deal of that credit should go to goaltenders Dave Laurion and Bob McNamara, senior defensemen John Schmidt and Jim Brown have played a vital role in bringing consistency to the Irish blueline. 
The defense has certainly im­proved in the last few weeks, drop­ping the team's goals-against average to under four goals per game. The stingy defense is a big reason thatthe Irish have been hot ever since win­ning the Great Lakes Invitational 
Tournament over Christmas break, and now have a chance to gain home ice advantage for the first round of the Central Collegiate Hockey As­sociation playoffs. 
"We have to concentrate on playing defense more than playing offense,"says Schmidt, who came to Notre Dame from St. Cloud, Minn. "My role on the ice is mainly as a defensive player and anything I get on offense is a bonus." 
there's a psychological adv4ntage to 
having a big man on the ice.' 

Assistant Coach Len Moher agrees with Brown. "We need a big man like Browny to assert himself on the ice," Moher said. "He can make a big difference in the flow of the game." 
Both Schmidt and Brown have 
been pleased with their perfor­
mances this year and are especially 
pleased with the performance ofthe 
team since the Great Lakes Tourna­
ment. "I've been very happy this 
year, "Brown noted. "I've played 
much more aggressively and it's 
helped me make less mistakes. I've 
been especially happy with the fact 
that I've gotten a lot more points this 
year than in the past." Brown has 
compiled seven goals and 16 assits 
so far this season. 

For Schmidt, it has been defensive 
improvements that have made the 
difference this year. "Before this 
season, Lefty (Coach Lefty Smith) 
had a talk with me and told me he 
wanted me to work on my defense a 
little more," Schmidt recalls. "I was a 
little disappoint¢d with myself at the 
beginning of the season, but every­. thing's really come around for me since Christmas." The fact that the improvement of 
Brown, who stands six foot four .. Schmidt and BrQwn coincides with and weighs 205 pounds, knows not the team's recent hot streak is not a only that his defense is important to coincidence. "I' think my play can the team, but also that he has an ad-stabilize the defense, "Brown said. ditional role on the ice. "I don't like "The defensemen need someone to think of myself as enforcer, that's out there to be a leader." Schmidt 
.... 
not my job out there. But, I do think agrees. "I think the younger players look up to me, especially in specialty_ situations like the power play and the penalty kill," Schmidt remarked. "This is the first time that's ever hap­pened to me here, and I really enjoy it. It helps me keep my head in th~ game." 
After Notre Dame, both players hope to pursue professional hockey careers. Brown has been drafted by the Los Angeles Kings and Schmidt has been drafted into the Montreal Canadiens organization. But they both have short-range goals that are more important. "We definitely want to get the home-ice advantage for the playoffs," Schmidt com­mented. "The crowds have really been responding the last couple of games and that will be a big help when the playoffs come around." 
Schmidt and Brown will get a chance to fulfill that goal tomorrow night when the Irish take on Wes­tern Michigan at 7:30 in the ACC. 
Inside: 
Wrestlingp. 11 Meyerp.12 Gretzkyp.13 Ntcktausp. 13 


WELCOME ARMANDO -A glance at the Blue Demon's schedule this year reveals what could amount to a tactical error on the part of DePaul. Sunday's contest is the last game of the season for DePaul, while the Irish have three more games scheduled after Sunday. The first round of the NCAA tournament does not begin until March 1I, and assuming that the Blue Demons, who were ranked third this week with a 24-I record and a I9-game winning streak, receive a first-round bye, the earliest they will see action is March I3. 
Thus, DePaul will have a full two-week wait between their last regular season game and first tournament game. 
OUTDOOR APPOINTMENT -Irish football coach Gerry Faust has made another addition to his coaching staff. Jay Roberston, who served as an assistant at Wisconsin the past two seasons, will work with the Irish defensive line, assisting Greg Blache. 
Robertson replaces Tom Connelly, who resigned after six years as offensive prep team coach to devote full time to his high school teaching position. 
Before his stay at Wisconsin, Robertson spent four seasons as the· defensive coordinator at Northern Illinois. Working primarily with the defensive secondary, he engineered a pass defense that ranked in the top IO nationally in '77 and '78. 
A native of Evanston, Ill., Robertson has indirect Notre Dame ties. He earned three letters as a center under Northwestern head coach Ara Parseghian during the '60, '61 and '62 seasons. Captaining the squad during his senior campaign, Robertson earned the game ball in the Wildcats' 35-6 win over Notre Dame. 
PUT THEM UP -As the calendar rapidly moves toward March, the Thaw and Spring Break, it also means the approach of another spring ritual at Notre Dame. No, not that -I said at Notre Dame. I mean the 52nd annual Bengal Bouts. 
More than 70 pugilists are preparing to participate in the in­tramural boxing tournament, which opens Sunday afternoon, March 7, in the ACC. 
As always, proceeds from this year's event will be sent to the mis­sions in Bangladesh. Last year's contribution was over Sl9,000 and the tournament has sent over a half-million dollars during its half­century history. 
As in the past three years, the finals of the tournament will be videotaped for a future presentation on NBC Sportswodd. The quar­terfinals are scheduled for I :30 p.m. on March 7, with the semifinals Tuesday1 Milrch 9 at 7:30p.m. and the finals on Thursday, March II at 7:30p.m. 
Ringside reserved seats are S2 for the first two sessions and S3 for the finals. General admission lower arena seats are SI.50 for the frrst two rounds and $2 for the finals. Season tickets good for all three sessions are S4 for adults and S2 for students high school age and above, while tickets for children I2 and under are 50 cents for the first two rounds and $1 for the finals. 
BETTER THE SECOND TIME -A breakdown of Notre Dame's basketball stats between the first I I games of the season (in which the Irish were 2-9) and the last II games (6-5) provides quite a contrast. During the first half of the season, the Irish shot 46.0 per­cent from the floor while hitting 51.4 percent during the second half. From the free throw line, the Irish hit 61.1 percent, and im­proved that mark to 70.6 percent during the second II games. 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame's defense has taken a turn for the better as well. After hitting at a 53.5 clip from the field duringthe first halfof the season, Irish foes have been held to a 49.8 efficiency during the latter portion. At the line, the difference is 74.8 to 65.4 percent. Further, Irish opponents have been held to nine fewer points-per­game of late, averaging 65.3 points for the first I1 games and 56.3 points during the last 11. 






