, , ,Elections -page 4 




Economy is top issue intoday's election 
WASHINGTON D.C. (AP)-On Reagan has had his chance for two the eve of off-year elections years, and that it is time to change Republicans did not expect to win, economic policy. Edmund S. Democratic campaigners talked of Muskie, former secretary of state, tougher times ahead, and President senator, and presidential candidate, Reagan urged Americans "to ca~t was the Democratic spokesman in a your votes for hope, not despair." recorded, election-eve TV commer­
The Democratic chairman cial. accused the White House ofplotting Muskie said the decision to be post-election cuts in Social Security. made today is "whether we stay with Republicans responded to these and the course for a privileged few or say other allegations with a pre­America can do better for all of us." recorded assertion that the The Democrats have charged that Democrats have been trying to scare the administration intends to cut So­voters with claims they know to be cial Security benefits but will not an­false. nounce the cuts until after the 
The rhetoric has ended, and the elections. House Speaker Thomas P. balloting began before sunup today O'Neill, Jr., and Democratic Chair­in New England. man Charles T. Manatt both have 
Voters will choose a new House of challengr.d Reagan to promise that Representatives, 33 senators, and 36 there will be no reduction in governors. They will elect state anyone's benefits. legislators in 46 states, and settle bal­The president said in his cam­
lot issues highlighted by nuclear paign TV statement that Democrats freeze votes in nine. · were "playing on people's fears" With just one exception, the party with such suggestions. He said he 

"Stay the Course·: -This is the phrase President of the president has lost congres­would protect the solvency of the and Mrs. Reagan point to which is carved out on sional seats in every off-year election Soia! Security system and "the this pumpkin; the same phrase is the presidents since the Civil War, and GOP benefits ofthose who depend on it." 
strategists expect 1982 to follow Reagan said his economic suit. program of budget and tax cuts al­

All Saints Dayprotest 
Their concensus is that ready has curbed inflation and Republicans will lose about 20 of started the economy toward their 192 seats in the House. They recovery. 
expect to hold control ofthe Senate, maybe even tighten it a little. Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, a can­The campaign ended as it began, didate for re-election in Massachu­



Solidarity members hold memorial 

WARSAW, Poland (AP) -Polish erected Sunday in a northern suburb in Warsaw churches Sunday, asking with national debate centered on setts and the Democrats' spokesman
militants turned All Saints Day into a ofWarsaw at the Brudno Cemetery. that interned Solidarity leader Lech the troubled economy. Reagan said in a weekend rebuttal to Reagan,
silent political protest yesterday, A black banner also appeared on W alesa be freed. his is the course to better times and said the administration's course is a
unfurling Solidarity banners and put­the Katyn grave Sunday, saying At St. Kostka Church on Warsaw's asked the voters to be patient. He blind alley that will lead to darker
ting up new monuments to "Man, Don't Murder Me." Covering Paris Commune Square, about 5,000 blamed current economic woes on times. Former Vice President Walter
demonstrators killed by the Com­it were badges ofSolidarity, the first churchgoers, some wearing big-spendng government policies of F. Mondale, campaigning in NewJer­munist martial law regime. independent union in the Soviet Solidarity badges, attended a Mass in the past and said Democrats offer sey, said unemployment is likely to
Police made no attempt to inter­bloc. The union was outlawed by the honor of those interned and im­only more ofthe same. increase after the election, from the
vene, but remained on guard in Polish Parliament Oct. 8. 
See PROTEST, page 3 
The Democratic argument is that current 10.1 pecent to 12 percent.

Warsaw and other cities in advance Catholic worshippers said prayers ofan eight-hour general strike called by the Solidarity underground for 
ND Women 's Caucus

Nov. 10. Millions of Poles streamed to cemeteries across the nation for the 
Sex Offense Setninars stirrape atvareness 
second day yesterday, snarling traf­fic and carrying armloads offlowers, candles, and wreaths to be placed on By RICK KEPPEL prosecute the rapist, and what kinds Mary's. Besides presenting the Sex Studies concentration in the Notre 
the graves ofloved ones. News Staff of problems victims face in the Offense Seminars, the Women's Dame curriculum. In Warsaw, protesters put up red courtroom. Caucus sends out informational Another member ofthe Women's banners marked "Solidarity" at the To stimulate an awareness of the Anne Schellinger, a Notre Dame newsletters and holds regular sup-Caucus, Kay Holland, said, "We have Powazki Cemetery, which is near a reality ofrape and to educate people Security Officer trained to deal with a deep concern for the development 
new memorial to Maximilian Kolbe concerning its prevention and legal sexual assault cases, also will speak port group meetings. Eventually, the ofwomen and encourage women of -the priest canonized Oct. 10 as implications, the Notre Dame tomorrow night on the prevalence group hopes to establish a Women's both campuses to participate". "the protector ofall imprisoned." Women's Caucus is presenting a of sexual offense on campus and on 
They also placed flowers at a series of Sex Offense Seminars Nov. preventive strategies. nearby unofficial memorial for 2-4. The Seminars will conclude on 4,500 Polish officers executed in the "People are lulled into thinking Thursday with a program geared 
For~er!VlJstudent 

Katyn forest, which is now part of that it will never happen to them," toward the practical prevention of the Soviet Union. said Beth Feely, a member of the rape. At 7 p.m. in the gymnastics Although responsibility for the Women's Caucus. "But sex offense is room of Rockne Memorial, Harold 
dies in cancercenter

deaths.of the officers whose mass reality. It's not just something that Smith ofthe Y.W.C.A. will conduct a grave was discovered in 1943 has happens to others. It can and does clinic to demonstrate some basic Martha Maher, who trans­She was buried at Saint Augusta 
not been officially fixed, most Poles happen to anyone." self-defense moves to deter attack­ferred to Notre Dame lastJanuary parish in her hometown of
suspect the Soviets, who at the time The Sex Offense Seminars begin ers. as a first-semester Junior, died Kalamazoo, Michigan. 
ofthe discovery blamed the Nazis. tonight at 7 p.m. in the Hayes Healy "It is important that people realize Saturday, October 23, in the Fred
The Polish government has Auditorium. Marsha Silverman, a that rape affects women of all dif­Hutchison Cancer Research Cen­A memorial service for Maher
refused to act uponSolidarity member of the Sex Offense Staff of ferent age groups and backgrounds ter in Seattle, Washington. and for all those who have died indemands to erect a monument at the South Bend, is scheduled to present and not a particular stereotype," lily the past year will be said byKatyn memorial, now marked by an overview of the problem, dispell­Raymond, a member of both the 
Father Theodore Hesburgh today

three rough birch crosses. ing the common myths about rape Women's Caucus and the Sex Of­Maher was not able to attend at 5 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church.
Small hand-made placards were and discussing the current college fense staff, stated. "It is equally im­Notre Dame this semester be­The homily will be gi-ven byplaced beneath the birch crosses campus problem called "date rape". portant that victims of a sexual cause she needed a bone marrow Father John Fitzgerald, DjrectorSunday reading: "in Memory of Sergeant Bonnie Werntz of the assault know that help is available to transplant at the center. The of Campus Ministry. Maher's

People who Died in 1956-1982 for South Bend Police will continue the them. Although the seminars last on­transplant proved to be unsuc­parents are expectetl to attend.
Truth and Freedom." seminars tomorrow, with a ly three nights, they tie in different cessful.
Mass riots against the Communist presentation of the legal aspects of aspects of the problem which will There will also be a memorial
regime first erupted in 1956. Since rape, also at 7 p.m. in Hayes Healy hopefully heighten people's aware­service for Maher in Pasquerilla
martial law was declared last Dec. Auditorium. ness to its seriousness." While at Notre Dame, Maher East on Nov. 14, according to Sis­
13, at least 15 people have been Werntz's talk will include a dis­The Women's Caucus was formed killed in anti-government protests in cussion concerning exactly what a last year to heighten awareness of 
lived in Pasquerilla East and ter Evelyn Booms, rector of Poland. rape victim should do to report the the issues currently affecting 
majored in accounting. Pasquerilla East. A memorial honoring the 1 5 was crime, what evidence is needed to women at Notre Dame and Saint 
--~---­
Tuesday, November 2, 1982 -page 2





NewsBrie_b 
By The Obsen•er and The Associated Press 
An interdisciplinary paneldiscussion ofJonat· han Schell's best-selling and controversial bookThe Fate oftheEarth will take place at Stepan Center tomorrow at 7:00 p.m. A panel of Notre Dame scholars includingJohn H. Yoder, professor oftheology; 

John Roos, associate professor of government and international 
studies; and William D. McGlinn, professor of physics, will par­
ticipate in the program. The discussion will be moderated by Father 
Theodore M. Hesburgh, who, with Cardinal Franz Konig, has recent­
ly initiated a global cooperative effort by scientists and world 
religious leaders to oppose nuclear armament. The interdisiplinary 
panel discussion is sponsored by the College ofArts and Letters and 
is a requirement of the Sophomore Core Course. The public is also 
invited to attend. -The Obseroer 
The Institute for Social and Pastoral Ministry is the new name for the old Center for Social and Pastoral Ministry. The six-year-old entity, which coordinates the University's programs in service to the Church, encompasses the Center for Pastoral Liturgy, the Institute for Clergy Education, the Religious Leaders Program, and the Center for Social Concerns. Its director is MonsignorJohn). Egan, special assistant to Hesburgh. -The Obseroer 
The Notre Dam.e press has recently published the book Choosing Well by Russell Shaw. Shaw, who is the secretary for public affairs ofthe United States Catholic Conference, believes that the aim ofethical inquiry is "to help us make consistently good use of whatever freedom we possess," and so considers "what freedom is 
... what constitutes the use and abuse offreedom." Choosing Well 
expands the theme of Beyond the New Morality, which was 
published by the University ofNotre Dame Press in 1974 and which 
was co-authored by Shaw and Germain G. Grisez, professor of 
philosophy at Campion College, University ofRegina, Saskatchewan. 
Each ofits nine chapters concludes with a series ofdiscussion ques­
tions. -The Obseroer 
Richard Freedman, who graduated from Notre Dame last year with a bachelor of science degree in mechanical engineering and who Is a second-year MBA student at the University of Chicago, has been selected as this year's recipient of the Ernst & Whinney Accounting Prize. The prize, whose recipient is selected by a faculty committee of the University of Chicago's Graduate School ofBusiness, is avalable to the top two percent ofthe school's student body. -The Obseroer 
Notre Dame's postolaster, H.c. colwell, has been promoted to a higher position in the Mishawaka office and moved last Friday. The Notre Dame branch will be directed by an officer-in-charge until a new postmaster is appointed, possibly in six weeks. The temporary officer will begin duties tomorrow. Colwell will serve as superintendent of postal operations in Mishawaka. He had served at Notre Dame for two and a half years. -The Obseroer 
Phlllip M. Hawley, president and chief ex­
ecutive officer of Carter Hawley Hale Stores, Inc., Los Angeles, has 
been elected a member of Notre Dame's Board ofTrustees. A 1946 
alumnus of the University ofCalifornia at Berkeley, Hawley is also a 
graduate ofthe Advanced Management Program at the Harvard Busi­
ness School He is a trustee ofthe California Institute ofTechnology 
and a member of Harvard University's visiting committee for its 
Graduate School ofBusiness Administration and Kennedy School of 
Government. He is also a member of the visiting committee for the 
University of California at Los Angeles Graduate School of Business 
Administration. Two of his eight children-Dr. Phillip, Jr. and Vic­
tor -have graduated from Notre Dame, and another son, Edward, is 
a sophomore this year. Hawley's membership brings the number of 
trustees on the University's Board to 44. The board will hold its 
annual fall meeting on campus Nov. 11-12. -The Obsen'er 
Father Theodore M. Hesburghled a campus 
delegation to the White House Oct. 24 to present President Reagan 
with an unedited copy ofthe 1940 Warner Bros. film. Knute Rockne 
-All-American, in which Reagan played the legendary Notre Dame 
halfback, George Gipp. The presentation ofboth film and videotape 
copies was preceded by a dinner in the Blue Room attended by 
Notre Dame's Executive Vice President, Father Edmund P. Joyce, 
Notre Dame head Football Coach Gerry Faust, and several other 
sports personalities. Following the dinner, the film was shown to 
guests in the White House viewing room. An unedited version ofthe 
motion picture, which starred Pat O'Brien as Rockne and proved to 
be a turning point in Reagan's film career, is very rare. Because ofa 
misunderstanding over who owned the copyright to some material 
used in the original film, two famous scenes were cut out in 1956 
whenKnute Rockne-All-American was released to television. One 
was the deathbed scene in which a dying Gipp tells his coach to urge 
some future Notre Dame team "to win one for the Gipper" and the 
other recounts the famous locker room scene In which Rockne im­
plores his team to do just that. Notre Dame's copy ofthe original film 
is believed to be one ofonly to exist. Hesburgh promised the Presi­
dent a copy of the Rockne film when Reagan received an honorary 
degree at Notre Dame commencement ceremonies on May 1 7, 
1981. -The Obseroer 
Near 100 percent chance of thunderstorms today. 
Breezy and warm with high in upper 60s to low 70s. Cooler tonight with a 40 percent chance ofshowers. Low in the low 40s. A chance ofshowers possibly mixed with snow tomorrow. Temperatures fal­ling into the 30s by afternoon. -AP 

'Childish maturity' 
Recently in New Orleans, some construction workers were digging the foundation for a building. Guy Montana was perched atop his backhoe, taking a drag on his cheap cigar when he saw something gleam­ing in the muck. Digging further, he realized that he had unearthed a whole bunch of silver and gold coins. Sharp-eyed passers-by spotted the coins as well. What followed should give pause to anyone who thinks man has come a long way since the Stone Age. 
Within minutes, dirt on this muddy fortune had spread through the glittering high-rises of downtown New Orleans. Hordes of well dressed executives, and secretaries in high heels descended upon the coins like vultures to carrion. "They were down in the ground in coats and suits and ties like groundhogs," said an amazed Montana. 
Had the money grubbers been bums battering each other with wine bottles, the scene would have been more appropriate. After all, bums would need the money. But when reasonably amuent types are reduced to fiends for a few coins, it is something very revealing. Second mortgage payments aside, the people in the mud were there not out ofnecessity, but out ofemotion -the same emotion present when the first ape-man battered his buddy with a bone to get his meat. 
While the above story had a cast of just a few, the next one involves thousands of people and billions of dol­lars. The entire Ben­dix/Allied Chemical/Martin Marietta/United Tech­nologies merger-takeover fiasco was a carnival. The best financial minds of Wall Street were the dancing bears, top lawyers were acrobats, the employees of the companies were the trained dogs, and presiding over this festival was Bendix boss and ringmaster, Bill Agee. At his side, appearing as clown, was his former scandalmate and current wife, Mary Cunningham. 
We all know that the business of business is profits. Thus the ruthless behavior of some in the business world can be dismissed as the consequences ofthe pur-· suit ofprofits. However the actions ofWilliam Agee can­not be so easily dismissed. Agee attempted to use Bendix's money to purchase another company named Martin Marietta. Sadly for him, Martin didn't want to be bought. So they countered by trying to buy Bendix. 
Soon another company, United Technologies, offered to help Martin buy Bendix and then carve up the com­pany. The predator had become the prey, and Agee was forced to call on Allied Chemical to save him. Allied did, but the price was high, Agee had to allow them buy Bendix. Thus when the final juggler had left the ring, Agee found that Bendix, his company which had originally raised the bigtop, no longer existed. 
The one facet ofthis mess almost everyone agrees on is that it was senseless. Agee in conjunction with wifey Cunningham dreamed up the whole scheme as a way of showing that he was a tough guy. From their comments, it's obvious that this pair oflovebirds were giddy during the whole affair. Agee and Cunningham's own affair came to light a few years ago when rumors ofbackroom hijinks forced Cunningham to resign from her position as Agee's top aid at Bendix. She has since found other employment and a husband -Agee. 

During an interview with gossip journalist Barbara Walters, Cunningham couldn't restrain enthusiasm for her and Agee's "strategy." She also told Walters' aides that it would be popping up in "the headlines." It did, with interesting results. Another piece ofevidence that proves what a half-baked exercise in egotism their plan was, is Agee's response when questioned ifhe had con· sidered the possibility that Martin might counter Ben­dix's takeover with one ofits own. "We didn't put a high 
probability on it because we didn't think they had the resources." Had Agee and company bothered to check Martin's resources they might have thought twice. 
There were better places for Agee to toss Bendix's money. Here in South Bend, Bendix's brake division is the town's largest employer. (Notre Dame is second.) The plant is old, and rumors 
of it soon being shut down by Bendix proliferate. Rather than spend his money in a failed takeover attempt, perhaps Agee would have been wiser to upgrade his brake division, thus insuring that foreigners 

won't steal his market, and giving a needed boost to the local economy. But then where's the glory in brakes? 
The people in the above two stories all probably con­sider themselves mature. Yet their behavior would indi­cate the contrary. Maturity and age are not synonymous. Even people of the loftiest status behave in a manner that is not only primitive, but also childish. 
The Episcopalian bishop in New York has embarked on a multi-million dollar beautification of his church. Many people claim that his church is already beautiful and that he should spend the money on the poor in· · stead. The good bishop has been quick with ·his response. He defends the construction by claiming that the project is creating jobs for the poor. It has created jobs-17. 
A coach manages to blame everyone but himself when his team loses. A child flees from a broken vase yelling, "Rover did it!" 

SMC presents:
The Observer 
COLLEGE TO CAREER DAYS '82 
"Good monzlng, good morning.. " 

"An opPQltunity to explore
Design Editor ............... Tim Neely Desig" Assistant.... . ............ Troy Illig Sarah llamil!On 
a variety of careers and lifestyles~ 
Typesett"s..... . .......... jim Ma<..·Lennan 
Mark Miotto News Editor... .. ... Michele Dietz 
Tues. Nov. 2 Barbara Hamel '79 
Copy Editor ......................... Diane Dirkers 
Finance. Historv major
Editorials Larout ............... Ken Cerabona Sports Copy i::dttor .............. Mike Riccardi 
Banking Associate 
Typist..................................... Maura Murphy 
Stapleton lounge 6:30 
ND Day Editor .......................... Dave Grote SMC Day Editor ........................ Tari Brown Ad Design ................................jeannie Euch Photographer............................ Pete Laches 
Wed., Nov. 3 Barbara O'Toole '59 
Guest Appearances ........... The Rising Sun 
Humanistic Studies Major
Laura and her cookies, Kool-aid and twinkles, Thunder and Lightning, Dzave 
ATTORNEY 
and a new position 
Stapleton lounge 6:30 
Thurs., Nov. 4 Sharon McKernon '75 
Government major
The Observer (USPS 598 9201 1s 
published Monday through Fnday and 
Account Executive 
on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students 
Susan Freidman '74 
of Notre Dame and Samt Marys Col· lege Subscnphons may be purchased 
ArtmaiOr 
for $25 per year 1$ t 5 per semester) by 
Photographer
wntlng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 The Observer 1s a member of The 
Choosing a Maior night 
Associated Press All reproduct1on 
Carroll Hall 6:30
nghts are reserved Second class postage pa1d 'It Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 

DC 

~-------~-------~----~-~--~~----~--­
------------------------------------------------------------~--~ 
The Observer Tuesday, November 2, 1982 -page 3 
Ordination anniversary 

Pope pays hotnage to St. Teresa 
AVILA, Spain (AP) -Pope John control postponed it twice. 3,000 nuns given a once-in-a­
Paul II paid homage to St. Teresa of The attempt on the Pope's life on lifetime dispensation from their 
Avila yesterday at a Mass for 200,000 May 13 of last year delayed his lives of silent prayer and fasting to 
Spaniards, saying that the 16th cen­original plans to hold the celebra· come to see him. 
tury mystic's life of poverty and tion. His intentions to hold the As the cheering women repeated­
meditation was an example for ceremonies on Oct. 15, the feast day ly interrupted his speech on the 
Christian women around the world. of the saint, were delayed until after virtues ofa cloistered life, John Paul 
"Her voice has resounded farther the Spanish election last week. II said after one outburst, "I see 
than the Catholic Church," said the Yesterday was the 36th anniver­silence is not observed today." 
pontiff in his homily. The Mass was sary ofJohn Paul II's ordination as a The Convent of the Incarnation 
celebrated in the walled city on the priest in Poland. houses 28 nuns, including an 
Plains of Castile, where the The primate of Poland, Arch­American, and five novices -who 
renowned Carmelite nun and bishop Jozef Glemp of Warsaw, and sleep with a single blanket in tiny un­
church reformer was born and the pontiffs successor as Arch­heated cells, wear dark veils most of 
founded the first of the 1 7 convents bishop of Krakow, Cardinal Francis­the day, and kneel to pray on slabs of 
she established in Spain. zek Macharski, were sitting behind cork. 
Later in the day, a helicopter took the pope as he told the vast throng at The American, a 23-year-old from 
the pope to Alba de Tormes, 45 Avila of the coming of St. Teresa's Beavertown, Ore., is known as Sister 
miles northwest of Avila, where St. Carmelites to Polish convents in the Margaret because she is forbidden to 
Teresa died in 1582. There beside 17th century. give her family name. She said she 
the black casket containing her Before the !"fass, John Paul II became a sister of the Order of the 
remains, he closed the year-long visited the Convent of the Incarna­Immaculate Sacred Heart last year 
celebration ofthe 400th anniversary tion where St. Teresa lived. Quip­after studying at the University of 
of her death, which brought more ping and iokin!!. he charmed some Dallas. 
than 2 million pilgrims to Avila and 
Alba this year. 
The Pope's 10-day, 16-city tour of Over break 
Spain -the first hy a pooe to one of 
the world's most Catholic countries 
-was timed to coincide with the 
Sen. Howard Baker predicts no future aid cuts 
anniversary, but events beyond his 
By PETER CIOTTA future, Baker stated, "I feel no fur­future," he added. higher education, asking "will we 
StaffReporter ther cuts will take plan! in the Joseph Russo, Director of Finan­have a situation where only the up­
future." He added that the present cial Aid at Notre Dame, agreed with per class will be able to attend the 
The present cuts in financial aid legislation, which is often misun­overall Republican policy ob­great universities?" 
are part of an effort to stop derstood, "has been very careful not jectives, yet expressed a cautious Russo disagreed with the opinion 
"hemorrhage spending," com­to disturb programs which help concern over the repercussions of that financial aid cuts will bring 
.. .Protest 
continuedfrom page I 
mented Senate Majority Leader those truly in need. Families making those policies along with the often about a stabilizing effect. "My big­
prisoned for political reasons. Howard H. Baker at a press con­$30,000 and under are still eligible misleading rhetoric used to describe gest problem with the federal 
During the Mass, Warsaw actors ference in the St. Joseph Bank build· for aid." Republican goals. • government is uncertainty concern­
-who have boycotted TV ap­ing in South Bend last Wednesday. Lugar said present policies will at­Russo explained that present ing funds," stated Russo. 
pearances since martial law began Senator Baker (R-Tenn.) was tempt to maintain the current level federal guidelines implementing He explained that changing 
-read from the scriptures. joined by Senator Richard Lugar (R­of student grants. He stated that he across-the-board cuts are a simplis­legislation in Congress, coupled 
The priest conducting the Mass Ind.) to address questions concern­was "more confident that a stabiliz­tic, effective approach to save with long delays in the institutional 
quoted Polish-born Pope John Paul ing Republican policies. ing effect will occur." money. Yet he questioned whether allocation process, have contributed 
II in his sermon, saying the outlaw­When asked by The Observer Republican policies will "attempt that savings was worth it. to perhaps the most confused 
ing of Solidarity was a violation of whether the present Republican to toe the present line," according to Stating that Republican policies federal student aid picture since the 
society's civil rights. He also ap­policies on cuts in federal aid to col­Lugar. "I'm not confident that an in­"speak of access, not choice," Russo goverment's inception of assistance 
pealed for peace and restraint. lege students were the norm for the crease in aid will take place in the questioned the future diversity of programs. 
SEND A DOMER TO INDY JOEZAKAS 
• 
N.D. Grad 

• 
Republican 

• 
Pro-Life 


We need a domer to represent NOTRE DAME STATE SENATE 
Vote TODAY: N.D.: Stepan Center S.M.C.: Augusta Hall Dining Room Polls close at 6 p.m. 



JOE ZAKAS for State Senator 
Paid for by the Joe Zakas for State Senator Committee, Ross Byrne, CPA treasurer. 



The Observer 

With a Ph.D in both physics and philosophy, Dr. McKinnon talked about his two interests last night in the Memorial Library Lounge. (Photo by Pete Laches) 


lntczrczstvd in taking a class in Ballroom Dancing1 
Wednesday, November 3, will be the first lesson of a five week ballroom dance class that will be will be held on Saint Mary's 
campus in the Regina Hall lounge basement from 8:30p.m. to 10:00p.m. 
This class will be taught by Ray Sexton 
from Indianapolis and the total cost is 
only $25 for five weeks. 
SIGN UP NOW IN THE SAINT MARY'S 

STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE 
PHONE: 284· 4561 
This offer is limited to 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students nnly. 
~.-...-.....-.~~~~~.-..----~~~~...-. 
SHARE BANKING FUTURES WITH MERCANTILE. 
We'd like to interest you in a career with Mer­
cantile Bank. Mercantile is one of Missouri's 
leading banks, headquartered in St. Louis. 
We're always looking for qualified individu­als with degrees in General Business, Ac­counting, Finance, Marketing or Business Management. Graduates can choose from a wide variety of banking specializations: Accounting & Auditing, Bond Portfolio Man­agement, Data Processing, Operations, Trust Investments and International Banking. If you're interested in Commercial Lending, our Management Development Program may be for you. 
We offer highly competitive salaries, per­sonal growth, merit promotions, educa­tional assistance and a fine employee benefit program. 
We'll be on campus Monday, November 15. 
If you're interested and want to find out more about opportunities with Mercantile, see your placement office, or send your resume to: 
MERCAnTilS Human Resources/MOP MERCANTILE TRUST


BAn< 
COMPANY N.A. 721 Locust Street St. Louis, Missouri 63166 

-~---~ --~-­
Tuesday, November 2, 1982-page 4 
Expect 50o/o turnout 

Hoosiers to elect senator, others 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Indiana voters will elect a U.S. senator, 10 congressmen, four Statehouse ot~ fleers and 125 legislators today in an off-year election being billed as a referendum on Reaganomics. 
An estimated 3 million Hoosiers were registered to vote, but political experts predicted that only about halfwould bother to go to the polls. 
The National Weather Service said Indiana's Election Day forecast called for showers and thun­derstorms as a cold front moved toward the state. Afternoon· highs were expected to range from the up­per 50s to low 60s. 
By state law, polls in Indiana's 
4,686 precincts will be open from 6 
a.m. to 6 p.m. prevailing local time. Voting in six northwestern Indiana counties . and five southwestern counties, which are on central stan­dard, time will begin and end an hour after balloting in the state's other 81 counties. 
The economy has been a major campaign issue in Indiana, where the seasonally adjusted unemploy­ment rate is 11.3 percent. The most recent figures are from August, when 283,200 persons were un­employed, according to the Indiana Employment Security Division. 
Leaders from both major political parties say a high voter turnout is the key depending on their perspective -to exploiting or blunting the bad economic news. 
"With a turnout of a million and a 
half voters, we can win the Senate 
seat in a very close election," said 
State Democratic Chairman jerry 
Miller. "Every point that the turnout 
exceeds 50 percent helps us." 
The Democratic organization in 
each of Indiana's 92 counties is 
mounting a get-out-the-vote effort, 
working in conjunction with labor 
unions whose unemployed mem­
bers have time on their hands. 
"We have phone banks offering rides, baby-sitters, anything to make it easier for people to go vote," Mil· ler said. 
Miller and GOP state Chairman Gordon K Durnil discount the old theories that weather can influence the outcome of an election. 
"Those people who were shaky voters in past years because of the weather have pretty much dropped out of the system," Durnil said. 
The conventional wisdom was that if it was a sunny day, farmers ­who traditionally voted Republican -would stay in the fields, Durnil said. The GOP chief said he thinks farmers are a responsible group and would always find time to come to vote. 
"I don't believe bad weather mr~n" ~ T)o.,.,ncratic day or a 

Republican day," Miller said. "In this election, I feel the tide coming our way." 
The top race on the ticket is the Senate campaign. where GOP in­cumbent Richard G. Lugar faces Democratic challenger Floyd Fit· hian. The American Party candidate, Raymondjames, isn't expected to be a factor in the Senate contest. 

'College to Career' features SMCgrads 
By MARY ANN POTTER 
StaffReporter 
"College to Career Days '82", a 
program for those Saint Mary's stu­
dents interested in learning more 
about liberal arts education and 
career decisions, will be held today 
through Thursday, Nov. 2-4. 
The "College to Career Days" program consists of informal discus­sions with three Saint Mary's graduates who now are pursuing careers. These speakers will also be attending various classes to talk to the students. 
Barbara Hamel, a 1979 graduate with a BBA in Finance and a BA in History, and a· current banking as­sociate for Continental Illinois Na­tional Bank & Trust Co., will begin the lecture series tonight at 6:30 in the Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall. 
Barbara Patrick O'Toole, a 1959 
graduate, will be the featured 
speaker tomorrow at 6:30 p.m., also 
in Stapleton Lounge. O'Toole, an at· 
tomey with Roger Baldwin Founda­
tion of American Civil Liberties 
Union, Inc., has a BA in Humanistic 
Studies with an English minor. Both 
Hamel and O'Toole will speak on 
liberal education. 
The series contiues on Thursday 
with two discussion led by Sharon A. 
McKernan, an account executive 
with Merrill Lynch, who has her B.A. 
in Government. 
The first of these discussions will be an meeting for students in· terested in internships -particular­ly the St. Mary's Washington D.C. internship program -to be held at 3:30 p.m. in the Student Affairs con· ference room of LeMans Hall. 

While at Saint Mary's, McKernan 

participated in the Washington D.C. 
semester program in addition to 
other internships. 
McKernan's second discussion 

will be held in conjunction with 
"Choosing a Major Night". McKer­
nan will speak, as well as Mary Theiss 
from the Counseling and Career 
Development Center, and student 
representatives from each depart­
ment will be available afterwards to 
answer any questions about each 
major. 
This discussion, to be held at 6:30 

p.m. in Carroll Hall, will include topics such as choosing a major and the relationship between a college major and a career. 
In past years, "College to Career Days" hosted about 18 women speakers. This year the number of speakers has been cut down, accord· ing to Vice President of Academic Affairs Beth Tighe. "The idea is to focus on these three women," ex­plained Tighe. 
She said. that even though these women are all involved in business, they have diverse backrounds. Tighe added, "I hope the women we have chosen will have a broad appeal." 
Society features abortion topic this month 
The Christian Legal Society ofthe Notre Dame Law School will spon­sor two films and a lecture this month on the topic ofabortion. 
The films, which are 30 minutes long, will be shown in Room 105 of the Law School. The lecture by Professor Rice will be in Room I 0 I. All three events will begin at 2 p.m. 

Roc.co's Hair 

.i:]styling 
.531 N. Michigan St., 
South Bend 
Phone :233-4957 

-----------" 

Where is "the Lorcl leading you? 
•••a chance to explore teligious life asAJ~....-­a sister of the Holy Cross .•. 
n • b '~·"' 
7pm Friday • 7pm Saturday Mary's Solitude St. Mary's Campus it's llllllll 
to register call Sll· PAT McCAll 
284-4466/284-8629 
Unlver.tq> of Kaeyland-Collelf'! Park 
SCHOOL OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS 
MASTER OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT 
Profeuional Education fe-r Careers in 
• 
Federal, state and loeal government 

• 
Public atfaira unita in private corporations 

• 
Nonprofit organizations and associations SCHOLABSHIP AND FINANCIAL AID AVAILABLB 


For further information and application materi­ala, eall or write: 
l.p CbueD OW..eor of A4aialiou llebool of Public Atraln 
1118 Soalal Sclen-Bulldlna UnlftnltJ of Kal7lalld Colleae Park. liD 10162 
(101) n•-1211 
n.. UaiwNUw of .11.,.._., w .. eo-' ~uw luei&1o­CiM. .II~ IIIWI--.._..... eo •PIIIw. 
---------l 
The Observer Tuesday, November 2, 1982-page 5 
~--~---~-----------­
Student Senate 



Section parties dotninate issues 
By MIKE KRISKO bars. according to the Senate. Activities james McDonnell. .VewsStaff Student Body President Lloyd The Student Senatr presentation Burke re-emphasized that this ex­at the Board ofTrustees meeting on 
Efforts continued in formulating perimental type of section party is Nov. 11 was next on the agenda. an agreeable proposal for the es­different from the previously Burke suggested the topics he tablishment of section parties at last ·· abolished section parties because it concerning the need to improve so­night's Student Senate meeting. creates a more relaxed home en­cial life on campus. He mentioned 
One of the issues discussed was vironment. the possibility ofhaving the meeting the advantage ofsection parties over Ensuing was a long discussion on at the student union so student in­dorm parties. which sections can hold parties. teractions could he seen first-hand. 
"~any dorms have inadequate so­Since the situation could get out of Senate member john Gallagher cial space in relation to the number hand if too many sections have reminded the Senate of the sig­of students living in them," said parties. especially in larger dorms nificance of the fact that the results senate member. Chris Tayback. such as Flanner or Grace, it was sug­of the Campus Facilities Survey -a Other members discussed the issue gested that lotteries he held to help survey conducted at Notre Dame to further. agreeing that smaller parties set a limit. Burke suggested that the assess the relationship between 
provide an atmosphere (or more rector could have some input in campus facilities and social space relaxed. personal communication. deciding which secuon could hold a and the social environment -has· 
A report prepared by the Depart­party. been submitted to the Board ofTrus­ment ofPsychology at the University Senate member Tom Yu stated tees. of South Carolina entitled the that the ~ection party proposal has Burke added that the Murday 
"\lotre Dame Needs Assessment" in­the basic ideas, but needs to be Report -a report from last year's dicated that there is a need for rewritten. Burke, upon the group's president Don Murday assessing the enhancing the male-female relation­approval, appointed Greg Miller. differences between Notre Dame's ships among Notre Dame students. Chris Tayback, Bob Yonchak, and Yu facilities and those of other univer­The Senate will use this report to fur­to a committee to form the final sities -should be presented in ther support their proposal. proposal for section parties. hope of showing in what aspects 
Another issue discussed was the In other news, Senate member ND's social environment falls short alcohol problem on campus. By Sue Fleck presented her work on of that at other universities. 
Student Senate member Tom Yu discussed an additional requiring the increase of food and plans for "Lit' Sibs Weekend." She proposalfor section parties, a majorpriority ofthe Senate oflate, non-alcoholic beverages available at said that, "by involving the student Several topics were mentioned at 
at last night's meeting. (See accompanying story). (Photo by Pete parties, less emphasis would be put body with its hi"gh school-aged the end of the meeting. Among Laches) on the consumption of alcohol, brothers and sisters, the student these. Brian Colleran expressed his 

to classes throughout the day today and at an informal reception at 6:30 tonight in Carroll Hall. Tomorrow's speaker will be Barbara O'Toole, an attorney with the Roger Baldwin Foundation of American Civil Liberties Union, Inc.. O'Toole will follow the same schedule as Hamel, speaking in classrooms during the day ;Jnd at the informal reception in the evening. 
The lectures will conclude 
Thursday with presentations by 
Sharon McKernan, an account ex­
ecutive with Merrill Lynch. McKer­
nan will hold a seminar on 
internships at 3:30 p.m. in the Stu­
dent Affairs Conference Room, and 
will speak on choosing majors at a 
reception at 6:30 that evening in 
Carroll Hall. 
The Board ofGovernance also an­
Don't forget 
to vote!!! 




The Amos Tuck School 
of 

Business Administration 
Dartmouth College • Hanover, N.H. 
Men and Women Seeking Graduate Education for Management are invited to discuss the 



TUCK MBA 
Tuesday, November 2 
Scott Settle, Assistant Director of Admissions Check with Placement Office • Administration Building Room 21~__•_?39-5200 
t t  STUDENTS., FACULlY.,  STAFF AND FA".ILY  tt  
f  WHO HAVE GONE TO THEIR REST IN  t  
:  THE PAST YEAA.  :  
t  t  

!Tuesm Nov. 2nd ! : t 5:OO pm : t LSc,a,~~Ie.d~,b~eJJ:i~~ I
~~~~~~~~~._..._..~~~~ ...... ~~ 
·~--.............~-------·-----~~-~--~~~.----------~-------~­


r----_-------_-----_--------_-~---_---_------~_ 
The Observer Tuesday, November 2, 1982 -page 6 

Discussing architecture as an art, Lawrence Perkins lectured last night in the ArchitectureAuditorium. (Photo by Pete Laches) 
····················································································"········································..
THE NOTRE DAME FINANCIAL INSTITUTION SERIES 

Sponsored by THE FINANCE CLUB 
FEATURED SPEAKERS 
8pm Nov. 3: Walter 0. Habermeier-Counsellor. and Treasurer of the International MonetarvI ~ Fundispm Nov. 4: Roger E. Birk--Chairman and Chief~ i Executive Officer of Merill Lynch and Co.! kpm Nov. 5: Leland S. Prussia--Chairman of ~ .i the Board of Bank of America~.
r.............~ ...............[(1JrfA'R'Y'AU'I5t'foYfiUM................................l 
•..............................................................................................................................,. 


PERFORMING ARTS SERIES O'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Mary's College 
Wednesday, November 3, 1982 8:00 PM General Admission $4.00 Tickets 
United Way 

SBPMurp~y discusses drive 
Editor's note: Toni Rutherford, Staff Reporter, interoiewed Kathy Murphy, Saint Mary's Student Body President, and Eileen Hocter, Vice President ofStudentAffairs, regard­ing the school's involvement in the United Way Drive. 

Murphy/Hocter 
Q: Why is this is St. Mary's first year to support United Way? 
A: (Murphy) Two years ago, un­der Sweeney's administration, they (St. Mary's students) decided not to go with United Way because they'd heard it supported abortion clinics. They went with Canco instead. Last year, our administration decided 
again not to support United Way. They supported Hospice. This year the faculty and administration cam­to us and asked ifwe would support United Way. They had found that it did not support abortion clinics and wanted student support. We thought about it, took a vote, and decided that for this semester we would support United Way. 
(Hocter) United Way is an umbrella organization. Prior to three years ago, St. Mary's supported them, and in fact, supported them through support of Canco and Hospice. 
Q: What are some ofthe charities under United Way? 
A: (Hocter) Y.M.CA., Red Cross, A.A., Catholic Social Service, Boy's Club, Boy Scouts, Family Children's Center, most of the services for the retarded, and Goodwill all come un­der the United Way umbrella. This only names a few -there are 34 to­tal. 
Q: What is the format for the St. Mary's drive? 
A: (Murphy) Next week is United Way Education Week We will have tables in Lemans lobby for students to pick up information about United Way and its charities. I think the tables will be there Tuesday, Wed­nesday, and Thursday. 
(Hocter) Wednesday night we will have a speaker from United Way ofSt. Joseph County to explain more to the students. 
(Murphy) The following two weeks we will have class and hall fundraisers. Following Thanksgiving break we have tentatively planned an all-campus fundraiser, but we don't know what just yet. 
Q: Notre Dame bas been criticized for competition between dorms and balls during its drit>e. Will St. M,ary's do anything like that, or will it contl_uct only fundraisers? 
A: (Murphy) Fundraisers. 

(Hocter) We felt that it would be best for us to hold the fundraisers and hope that everyone would sup­port them. 
Q: What is the goal for the St . . Way. That's where the success will 
Mary's drive? 
A: (Murphy) The United Way goal for St. Joseph County is $2,950,000. We want to give as much as we can, without setting a definite amount. We also wish to show as much sup­port as we can. 
(Hocter) We are hoping that everyone will take the time to ed­ucate themsel_ves about United Way. We want to stress the fact that this is an opportunity to learn and to con­tribute to the Christian atmosphere ofSt. Mary's. 
Q: Will the success ofthis semes­ter's drive determine whether or not you will sponser United Way again? 
A: (Murphy) I think, as we said earlier, it doesn't really matter how much money we raise. Ofcourse, we want to raise as much as we can. Realistically speaking, it's the fund raisers that count. A lot of participa­tion in these fundraisers is what we want to see. Let the students be aware and educated about United really come. 
Q: Are you planning on passing out surveys at the end ofthe semes­ter to see bow the students feel about supporting United Way? 
A: (Murphy) It depends on the general feedback we get during the drive. Chris Trotter and the Board of Governance will have the final deci­sion on the need for surveys. 

Q: What are your personal feelings about this drive from stu­dent response so far? Do you think it will be a success? 
A. (Murphy) Yes. I think that, with the caliber of the ppeople here, it will be successfuL 
(Hocter) We haven't heard much from the students because not much information has been available to them, but we get the feeling from the girls planning the activities that they are really excited and enthused and ready to talk it up. We think that, just in their enthusiasm, it will be a success. 




Lebanonmassacre began earlier : three witnesses 
JERUSALEM, lsrael (AP)-The ls­
raeli commission investigating the 
massacre of Palestinians heard tes­
timony yesterday from three foreign 
medical workers who said the kil­
lings may have begun earlier than 
previously believed. 
The two British doctors and an 
American nurse -on the staff of a 
hospital at the Sabra refugee camp 
-said they began treatingwounded 
about eight hours before Israel has 
said it allowed Christian militiamen 
to enter the camp. 
The witnesses also said they 
thought the Israelis were in control 
of the Lebanese militiamen, who 
slaughtered the Palestinians in the 
Sabra and Chatilla camps in a 
rampage in mid-September. 
"Israel was in control ofwhat was going on there," said Ellen Siegel, who told the commission the Is­raelis helped get the foreign hospital workers out of the area after two days. 
"There was a certain power that they had there that the others did not," said Siegel, who is from Wash­ington D.C. She was mildly reproached by Supreme Court Justice Aharon Barak for speculating rather than sticking to facts. "That is for us to decide," Barak said. 
Siegel and Dr. Suee Chai Ang and 
Dr. Paul Morris, both of London, 
were the first non-Israeli witnesses 
to appear before the three-man com­
mission in two weeks of hearings on 
the massacre. 
They volunteered in response to 
the commission's appeal for tes­
timony that could help resolve the 
questions that Israel has been 
agonizing over: when and how much did the Israeli army know, and what did it do to stop the killing? 
The Red Cross estimates at least 340 Palestinians were murdered in the two camps. 
The other commission members are Supreme Court President Yitzhak Kahan and retired Maj. Gen. Yon a Efrat The commission is governed by a strict Israeli law that forbids press commentary on the testimony.. 
The volunteer staff members of Gaza Hospital in the Sabra camp tes­tified that they began to treat wounded on the morning of Sept. 16, eight hours before Israel says it authorized its Lebanese Christian allies to begin an anti-guerrilla operation in the Palestinian areas. 
The witnesses, testifying separate­ly in the hearing room on the Hebrew University campus, said they did not see any killings and did not realize a massacre was under 
way. 
The commission members ques­tioned them closely on evidence that could have implied Israeli in­volvement. 

The witnesses said they saw as many as 10 bulldozers working in . the Chatilla camp as they were led out of the area Saturday morning, Sept. 18. Israeli officers ack­nowledged allowing entry of only one bulldozer, for clearing rubble. 
It was later learned that the bul­

ldozers  were  being  used  to  hide  
evidence of the  massacre  and dig  
mass graves.  

****************************** 
-tc Men's Hair Styling at its finest * 
iC 'The Knights ofthe Castle' ~ 
• -t-O__~
• ~ ueeHs * ~ For the total look on a styled ,f/ ~ Hair Cut, Shampoo, _t-l( * Blow Dry, Condition 27_2-0312 * Regular $15.00 277-1619 * Now 8.50 with coupon * 
54533 Terrace Lane ~ 

i(Hrs. Tue_, Wed, Sat 8:30-5:30 Across from Martin's (St. Rd. 23) * 8 308 30
~ Thur, Fn : · : We are only minutes from campus ~ 
~Closed Mon ~ 
************COUPON *************. 


·rhe Observer Tuesday, November 2, 1982 -page 7 


~--------------------------------------------------------------------· 
I WHEN IT COMES I 



i mBASKETBALL I 
I 

WE'VEGOT 
\ 

YOUR NUMBER. 
Introducing the Pony All American with Custom Numbers and Lenering and Much More. I I I 
There's a hot new number in basketball. 
I 

We call it Pony !D's. 
I 

Pony !D's are super stick decals that you can apply right on the ankle I patch of our new All American Basketball Shoe. I Now you can put your number ... your favorite player's number ... your I school's initials ... in your favorite colors ... right on the Hottest I Basketball Shoe in the game. I But Pony I D's are just part of what's hot in basketball this year. I The big story is the performance features we've built into our new All I American Basketball Shoe. I I I I I 
0 New Shoe Height 30mm. Higher Than Standa,·d Construction. 0 Full Padded Ankle For Comfort And Extra Support. €) Pony ID Custom Decals. 0 Perma-Smooth Toe Box Which Features No Stitch I Construction. 0 New "U" Super Support Lace System. (!) Unique Stabilizer Bar Toe Box Construction. 
f) Super Grip Non-Skid Two-Color Sole. I 
Put your feet in our All Americans, and the first thing you'll notice is their incredible comfort and fit. There's no stitching on the inside of the Perma-Smooth toe box so there's nothing to rub against to cause blisters. 
Lace 'em up and feel the support that their new "U" lacing system and 
30mm. shoe height deliver. Then turn loose a few moves to feel the lateral support shock absorption and traction you get with our super grip two-color sole. 
But the best news of all is that Pony I D's and All Americans are at your favorite Pony dealer NO.Y'{) 
I I 
I I I 
THE MARK WITH THE CHEVRON;M I I 
I I IAND WE'VE GOT YOUR NUMBER: I 
I I
Foot Locker 

Athletic Annex Van's Sporting Goods Em roe Stores I
Dunham's Sporting Goods
All Stores 

All Stores in IN. Central Indiana 
All Stores 
Muncie Greater Indianapolis
Dunham's Messenger's Sports Center
Big Sky Dunham's Sporting Goods University Park Anderson Mishawaka All Athletic Dept. Stores LogansportIndiana
Dunham's Players Choice 
Jimmy's Athletic Apparel ,.
All State Athlete Monsey 

Elkhart Galyan's Trading Post Hammond
Southbend 

Mike's Sporting Goods Sports Den Indianapolis 
Super Shoes Athlete's Foot Gary Area Fort Wayne Hartzler's Sports Shop Indianapolis All Stores in IN. Fort Wayne
Coach's Corner Blyth's Sporting Goods Terra Haute Griffitt 
Dunham's Sporting Goods Kokomo, IN. 


GOOD LUCK FOR A GREAT SEASON TO COACH RICHARD DIGGER PHELPS & THE FIGHTING IRISH 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------~ 


r--_~____----~_------=----_----_------=--------_-----_--~-­
-~ 


Business & Technology 
Economic Update 
Government price support loans made to farmers in November will carry an interest rate of 9.7'; percent, down from 11 percent which had been in effect in October, the Agriculture Department said yesterday. Everett Rank of the USDA's Commodity Credit Corp. said the lower rate reflects the lower cost of money charged by the Treasury in November. The new rate is the lowest charged farmers by CCC since the 1979 crop when loans bore an interest rate of9 percent, Rank said. -AP 
Yields on short-tenn Treasury securities declined slightly in yesterday's auctions after rising the previous two weeks, officials reported. About 55.6 billion in new three-month bills were auctioned at an average discount rate of 7.813 percent, down from the 8.031 percent oflast week. The gvernmnnt also sold about 55.6 billion in six-month bills at an averagerate of 8.231 percent, down from 8.472 percent. Yesterday's yields, a measure of the cost of government borrowing from the public, were the lowest since the Oct. 18levels of7.437 percent for three-month bills and 7.762 per­cent for six-month bills. The discount rate on the new T-bills auc­tioned yesterday understates the actual return to investors. That return, or investment rate, came to an average of 8.08 percent on three-month bills and 8. 71 percent on six-month bills. -AP 
The United Auto Workers union and 
Champion Spark Plug Co. will open contract negotiations today in Fort Wayne, Ind., Raymond Majerus, UAW secretary-treasurer, said yesterday. In a statement, Majerus did not comment on specific issues of the talks but noted the company "has always been one of the most profitable auto parts manufacturers in the world. Although its profits have declined in the most recent economic recession, it still operates a viable, profitable business." The UAW represents more than 4,000 Champion workers at plants in Detroit; Toledo, Ohio; Cambridge, Ohio; Hellertown, Pa.; Burlington, Iowa, and Windsor, Ontario. Their contract expires Feb. I. Champion makes more than 450 types of spark plugs and supplies more than 200 companies. -AP 
The Indiana Department of Revenue 
sent out checks totaling $1.64 million on yesterday to out-of-state residents who paid an occupational income tax that was later declared unconstitutional. The Indiana Supreme Court order refunds to those who paid the taxes to Clark, Dearborn, Perry and Randolph counties and the city of New Albany. Revenue Commis­sioner William D. Haan said the 2,959 checks were the first group being mailed to comply with the court's order. Other claim forms have been received by the state and are in the processing stage, he said. All told, more than S2 million in occupational income taxes has been ordered to be repaid to people who filed proper claims with the revenue department. Haan said that people who have filed claim forms for the refunds should wait a few more weeks for processing before asking about the status oftheir refunds. As part of the court's order, just of 14 percent of each refund is being withheld to pay attorney's fees in the class action lawsuit. -AP 


all Street Update 
The stock market rose sharply yesterday, recouping some of last week's losses with a rally inspired by falling interest rates. Trading was relatively quiet, however, on the eve of today's elections. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials, off 39.74 last week, climbed I3.98 to 1,005.70. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 73.53 million shares, against 74.83 million T Friday. 
-AP 


DINE IN or CARRY OUT ENJOY OUR FINE PIZ~A, ITAllAN SANDWICHES PAST A 
Free Literof" RC" Delivery Order 

CARRYOUT DELIVERY
THE FAMILY PIZZERIA 

A Texas International Airlines DC-9 gets a fective lastSunday. AnotherTI aircraft undergoes name change as a maintenance worker removes a facelift in the background at the Hobby main­the backingfrom the new lettering ofContinental tenance hanger. ( APPhoto) Airlines who entered a merger agreement ef-
Tylenol reputation 



Johnson & Johnson's m.ajor crisis 
By MILTON MOSCOWITZ 
Special to The Obsen•er 
It's always intriguing to watch the 
corporate mind at work during a 
crisis. How does it react? 
Johnson & Johnson (J &J), one of the world's largest health-care com· panics, has on its hands an agonizing problem of which few Americans can be unaware. Nine people have died after taking Extra-Strength Tylenol capsules which had been laced with cyanide. Tylenol is the largest single selling product in J & 
)'s medicine chest, bringing in 5500 
million a year or 8 percent of the 
company's total sales. 
So you're J&J -what do you do? 
It needs to he stated first -and 
underlined heavily -that no one is 
blaming J & J for this tragedy. It's 
clear that the capsules were tam­
pered with after leaving the factory. 
David Collins, president of McNeil 
Consumer Products, the J & J unit 
that markets Tylenol, put it this way: 
"Tylenol was built on the quality of the product, the quality ·of the manufacturer. The confidence ofthe American consumer built this product. Nothing has changed. What has changed is that we have an insane individual or individuals out there who have elected to con­taminate this product." 
However, just because J & J is blameless doesn't mean that it can easily escape the consequences of this mindless poisoning. Many con­sumers stopped buying Tylenol of any kind, including in the tablet form. And some retailers swept their shelves ofall Tylenol. 
So J & J found itself a victim with the task ofrebuilding consumercon­fidence in the Tylenol brand name. Many so-called "experts" on Madison Avenue believe it's an im­possible task and thatJ & J would be smart to market its non-aspirin painkiller under a different name. But J & J is rejecting that gratuitous advice. 
Lawrence Foster, public relations director of J & J, told me that the company has been gratified by the "outpouring of empathy and sup­port" it has received from all quar­ters. And so J & J is determined to stick with the Tylenol name. Foster said it is J & )'s belief that the American people are smart enough to see that Tylenol should not be hung because of of the actions of a lunatic. Still, ifthat's the case, you wonder what went into the decision by J & J not to sign the recall advertisement which it placed in more than 300 newspapers across the country during the week ofOctober I 0. J & J paid 51.5 million for this space, which announced a voluntary recall of all Tylenol capsules and offered consumers three choices: 
1. 
Return the bottles and have them replaced with Tylenol tablets. 

2. 
Return the capsules to stores for replacement with tablets. 

3. 
Return the bottle and get a cash refund for the unused capsules. 


Nowhere in the ad was there a mention of)ohnson &Johnson or its subsidiary, McNeil Laboratories. The top simply carried the notice that this was "a special announce­ment from the makers of Tylenol." People returning bottles were directed to send them to "Tylenol Exchange" at a Post Office box num-


ND Financial Institution Series starts tomorrow 
BySANDYVALENZUELA 
StaffReporter 
..... 
Changes occurring in finance today is the underlying theme ofthe three-day Notre Dame Financial In­stitution Series. Speakers will present their topics tommorrow through Friday at 8:00 p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
The series, sponsored by the Notre Dame Finance Club, begins tomorrow evening with Dr. Walter 
0. Habermeier presenting "The Role of the International Monetary Fund in the Changing World Finan­cial System." 
Habermeier, the Counsellor and Treasurer of the International Monetary Fund, received his doc­toral in economics from the Univer­sity of Munich. He was formerly on the staff of the Deutsche Bundes­bank in Frankfurt and held the posi­tion of Alternative Executive Director of the IMF for the Federal Republic ofGermany. 
He was also a member of the Ger­man Permanent Delegation to the OEEC in Paris and assisted the Presi­dent of the European Monetary Agreement and was on the commit­tee to liberalize invisible transac­tions. He has been involved in the International Monetary Fund since 1966. 
Thursday, Roger E. Birk, Chair­man and Executive Officer ofMerrill ber in Maple Plain, Minnesota.) &J is loc:ned in New Brunswick, N.J. 

Foster assured me that "no profound thinking" had gone into the decision not to sign the ad­vertisement. Tylenol, he pointed out, had been sold on the Tylenol name, not on J & )'s. But ifJ & J has such confidence in the sanity of the American public, why was it afraid to put its name on advertising space it had paid for? 
Wall Street journal reporter Den­nis Kneale had one explanation. He said marketing experts had advisedJ & J that the Tylenol case might have "adverse effects on other J & J products." Can you imagine people not buying Band-Aids andJohnson & Johnson's baby shampoo because of the Tylenol contamination? 1 can't -hut J & J is apparently not taking any chances. 
(c) 1982, J.os Angeles Ttmes ~)·ndicate 

Lynch & Co., Inc., will discuss "The Financial Services Industry and the Throes ofChange." Birk is a member of the Business Roundtable and is a Task Force Co-Chairman for the President's Private Sector Survey on Cost Control in Federal Govern­ment. He also serves on the Presi­dent's Commission on Executive Exchange. 
Friday, Leland Prussia will explain the topic of "Structure Changes: New Reality for Global Banking." Presently Chairman of the Board of Bank ofAmerica NT&SA, Prussia has also held the position of Executive Officer of the bank's World Banking Division. He is also the member of such exclusive clubs as the Com­monwealth Club of California, Bankers Club of San Francisco, and the American Finance and Western Economic Associations. 
He has been with the bank since 1956, at which time he was research economist. Aside from the bank, Prussia is a member ofthe California Roundtable and is on the Advisory Council oftheJ.L Kellogg Graduate School of Management ofNorthwes­tern University. He also is a member ofthe Payments Systems Committee of the Association of Reserve City Bankers. 
There will be an informal recep­tion following each presentation at the Morris Inn. The reception will be open to everyone. 
----~---~~-------------~ 



Editorials 
Tuesday, November 2, 1982 -page 9 
Remember horror behind tainted mask 
Halloween presented its usual array of costumes last weekend. Creative men and women who had devoted much time and patience in conceiving and making their masks and garb shared their artistic talents with their fellow revelers. But then there 

Paul McGinn 
Roper Review 
were some not so creative people who chose to subsitute senseless attention-getters for ar­tistic endeavors. Those were most notably the persons who made fun of the deaths ofseven Chicagoans, the victims ofthe cyanide-tainted Tylenol capsules. 
I distinctly remember the three "costumes" I saw at one Halloween party: a couple, in their mid-twenties, donned sheets emblazoned both back and front with the facsmile of a Tylenol capsule arid skull and crossbones; another "creative genius" sported black leotards, a black mask, and an extra-strength Tylenol capsule box around his mid-section. Without a doubt, these three people caught the attention of the crowd, a crowd composed of well-to-do and intellec­tual New Orleanians. 
Somehow, a few of the citizens of the "City that care forgot" forgot to care. In that city, 1,000 miles away from the funerals, the mourning, and the disgust, there was an in­sipid view that the license accorded to the pretend horror of Halloween should include the real horror of innocent men and women. And even though the local media blitzed the airwaves with the agony of the victims' relatives and the fervor with which Chicago police sought the murderer, these New Or­leanians could not fathom the fact that those victims were just like the victims ofthe july 9 crash of Pan American Flight 759. 
I remember taking off just 40 minutes after that fatal crash. As our jet skirted the air space above the crash site, I thought about how many persons I knew whose bodies lay in that still-smoking wreckage. I wondered how lucky I was not to have been a passenger on that flight and thought of the tragedy which lay scattered over that neighborhood in Ken­ner. 
And yet, I saw no men or women dressed as crash victims or fitted with a model of that beleaguered plane. Of course, it would have been a morbid and heartless display to have made fun of something which immediately touched the lives ofso many New Orleanians; doubtless, the crash affected a few of those in attendance, and to make fun of their misery would have undoubtedly provoked more misery and possibly anger. 

But no one openly expressed anger over or resentment of the Tylenol costumes. Though a few gave disapproving glances, many tapped their conversation partner on the shoulder to view the "witty" and "topical" costumes. 
By last weekend, the month-old media blitz about the Tylenol case was beginning to jade the senses of any New Orleanians. Those seven deaths and the search for their mur­derer(s) were no longer "news," but had become simply another example of man's in­humanity to man. 
But even though the local and national media pummeled the story into the heads of their listeners, how could New Orleanians laugh at another's misery while still mourning the crash of Flight 759? Was it a simple ques­tion of the mileage which separated the amusement ofthe party guests and the horror ofthe Tylenol tragedy? 
Could we ever hope to instill within our­selves a longer lasting sense of sympathy for those victims? 
But the key to understanding the conflict­ing responses lies not in a lengthening ofone's feelings of sympathy. The key lies in an in­dividual's ability to place himself within the mind of the mourner, to empathize with his fellow human. Sympathy allows the individual to remain an anonymous and distant observer ofthe situation. He who merely pities another maintains his unaffected outlook and fails to become one of"those poor devils." 
Empathy, however, pulls the empathizer in­to the same predicament which the mourner experiences. It is easy to empathize with a friend or loved one who experiences misery. It is easy to feel with a victim's relative whom we see every day on the street. It is easy to grasp the horror ofa plane crash which occurs only across town. But it is so difficult to em­pathize with those about whom we merely read or hear, those who never shake our hands. 
Empathy does not concern a competition between us and them; empathy is a matter of community respect for those who are not just like us, but those who are us. Ifwe are to truly share in the misery ofone anothe.r, we cannot simply pity them; we must feel for us. 

Genuine learning begins only after graduation 
For seniors, every little landmark through the year takes on special meaning -the last October break, the last home football game, the last first semester; on the list marches until the final day. These constant reminders ofour academic mortality often lead us to reflect on 

Robert Wack 
Both Sides 
whatwe have gotten from our four years here. 
Many seniors, myself included, are chafing to get out. We are ready to graduate, more than willing to take that last step. There are also those who are finding it hard to break away, to leave the comfort and security be­hind. Both groups, though, as a whole would probably say that Notre Dame has prepared them well for what comes after these four years. This belief could not be any further from the truth. 
True, we have all received some of the finest academic training in the country, but this pales in comparison to the vast ignorance most ofus suffer from when it comes to life in the "real" world. At Notre Dame, we have been living in an insulated, self-contained en­vironment. Most of us came from the same nice, upper-middle class suburban terrarium, innocent of the true rigors of survival. Even during the summer, when almost all slave to earn money for the coming school year, we still have the comforts ofhome, free room and board, and plenty offriends around. 
For some, graduation will not be that traumatic. The transition from the Notre Dame fantasyland to whatever illusory world the family's wealth constructs will be fairly smooth. Whether these people are to be pitied or envied is not clear; the fact remains that they will not have to dea} with the everyday demands ofsurvival. 

The rest of us will not have it so easy with loans to be paid, deadlines to be met, and the rest of the interminable morass of trivial and not so trivial details of living. What has Notre Dame taught us about cutting back to one meal a day so we can pay our rent? What arts and letters course teaches you how to deal with bums and winos on the subway? Who in the science department tells you how to figure out what buses to t,ake across town? How many professors in the College of Busi­ness can tell you what to do when you are in a strange town with no money? 
It is common for seniors to feel that when they graduate from college they are finished with learning and are now about to start making a living. It comes as a shock to many to find out that they have only just begun to learn, and that working is more learning how to survive than living. Why do you think alumni come back so rabidly in love with their memories of college? If life after graduation was such a cake walk of reaping the fruits of our four years labor, tailgaters would be a lot less crowded. The fact of the matter is, Notre Dame is fun, and we do learn a lot of neat things, but when it comes down to getting along in the world, there is no substitute for the big classroom out there. Any smugness felt as we step out after receiving our diplomas will not last long. 

r· 
P.O. Box Q  
Open contraception debate DearEditor: server printed an article which reported the Since I have been at Notre Dame, I have search for an effective male contraceptive. heard and read little discussion about con­And, I think it is fair to observe that the ar­traception by members of the Notre Dame ticle had an obvious tone ofadvocacy. community. This surprises me because the Now, I am not suggesting that such ar­moral issue ofcontraception is one ofwhich ticles not be printed; I am challenging The is of special concern to modern Catholics: Observer and the Notre Dame community that is, modern secular society promotes not to let the modern secular society dictate contraception as the best solution to many our attitudes on the magnitude of the moral of the world's problems whereas the Cath­issue of contracepton. Why not search out olic Church teaches that contraception is and report upon the studies of those who one ofthe world's problems. find the free dispensation of contraception The church teaches that contraception is to be one ofthe chiefcauses ofthe epidemic evil in itself and that it facilitates and leads to of teenage pregnancy? Why not report the many other moral evils, such as sex outside studies ofthose who have catalogued the ex­of marriage and abortion (most directly in tensive physical dangers risked by the use of that some forms of the pill and the l.U.D. contraception? Why not report the enor­work, on occasion, by causing early-term mous success of natural family planning abortions). techniques? And why not, as members of a Who is right ­modern secular society or Catholic community, engage in respectful the Church' We will never know the answer and obedient consideration of the Church's to ths question unless we examine the argu­teaching on this matter? ments on both sides and consider which janetE. Smith "group" is better able to judge the morality Asst. Professor ofcontraception. Program ofLiberal Studies I write this because on Oct. 1 2 The Ob- Caueat emptor 1 DearEditor: ring beyond the realm of the Golden Dome, We the members of Pasquerilla East Hall it is difficult to believe that the price of a wish to relate what recently happened when sweatshirt could more than doubled in a we attempted to purchase hall sweatshirts. week's time. After contacting every T-shirt shop listed in Fortun~tely, we have discovered that not the South Bend Yellow Pages, we decided to all businessmen in the South Bend area are as do business with Colley's Imported unreceptive to students' business as Col­Sportswear, because they offered us the ley's. Upon examination of this situation, most competitive price. When we went to however, we have become concerned about the store to look at sample shirts and color the manner in which student business is charts, the owner explained that the person handled by some merchants. to whom we had previously spoken had Can these businessmen, in these misquoted their prices, and that we would depressed economic times, actually afford have to purchase the shirts for an additional to reject legitimate accounts? Or, do they two dollars. We then agreed to this price ad­assume that Notre Dame students are either justment, and made an order for one wealthy or naive enough to pay exorbitant hundred and twenty sweatshirts the follow­prices for the items they wish to purchase? ing week. As members of the Michiana community, When we returned to Colley's with cash our business affairs should be accorded the in hand, ready to order our sweatshirts, the same respect and courtesy as those of any owner informed us that, due to price in­other citizens. It is our responsibility, creases which she had encountered, her therefore, to assert our rights as consumers, price for sweatshirts had more than and to refuse to patronize those establish­doubled. Although we as students complain ments which do not respect us as equal that Notre Dame is not "the real world," and members ofthe consumer world. that we often lose touch with events occur-Residents of Pasquerilla East  

The Obs .....~ 
··-·-· -·-----Department Manage-:s


-e~7ler--------------Editorial Board 
1 f.,. Ol"orcr ~~ an indcpcndcn! ncw'f'.ll'cr f'uhll>hni by the ,tudcnh of the 
Editor-in-Chief........... ... Michael Monk Business Manager .............................;r<my Aiello 
·rll\n,lty of Nntrc D.tmc du l..k .rnd S.unt M.rn··, ( ollq.:c It ,toes r·(lt m'c"J.rrly 
Managing Editor.. Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller ............................................:Eric Schulz rdlt·, t the poll< If"' of the Jd!llllll,tr.ltiOII 1>f t"lthcr 111~titut1Uil The ne-w> 1' report Executiz•e Neu•s Editor ..... Dave Dziedzic Advertising Manager....................... Chri., Owen 
d .r-; .I<!Ur.ltel;-J.nd .l\ ohJt,tl\d} ,l, f'lh,lhlt-. Ldrtoruls rt'j'rc-;cnt the op1:11on of S.11C Executiz•e Editor.... ...... Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager..................Maura .\lurph~· .1 m.qonty of the Ld1t0r1JI Bo.~rd ( ooruncnt.rric'. op1nrun-; and le!1er> .1rc the ,·rcw> Sports Editor.. ....Chri~ Needles Circulation Manager ..........................Ray lnglin of tltur authors. ( olt1mn ~l'.l,c 1' JYJII.thlt-t1> .dl memht-r, ot the \Ollllllll!llty.•mJ Editorials Editor .. Paul McGinn Systems Manager...........................Bruce Oakley the frrc exprc>SIOil of vJr}"lllg opmrom on ..:ampu). through letter). ~~ encoung<'d. Features Editor. ...Tari Brown 
Photo Et!rtc1r .................... . ...... Rachel Blount 
Founded November 3, 1966 

P.O.Hox Q. Notrt: Danw. IN -.6SS6 ( 219) 2.'9-HO.~ 
--~--------------~--------~----------------------------~--------------------~~--­

~~~()~ts=l=l=1r==i=e~S========~====================Tu=e=sd=a=y,=N=o=ve=m=b=er=2=,=19=8=2==p=a=~===lo
Bv Tbe Obsert•er and lhe .4ssol"iatetl Press 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes will hold a meeting tonight in the St. Ed's chapd at 8. All are invited. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Women's CrewClub wm discuss 
winter training at a mandatory meeting tomorrow night,.scheduled 
for 8 at LaFortune. -The Observer _, • · ~ ··. ··· , · ·'::';.: 
Sports Editor Chris Needles wm discuss the 
Irish offense as well as Coach Gerry Faust's recent verbal offensive on tonight's "SpeakingofSports" program, to be hosted by Will Hare. Air time on WSND, 64-AM, is 10. -The Observer 
Tom Nissalke, the new coach of the Cleveland Cavaliers, could justifiably beg off when quizzed about his team's record-tying, 21-game losing streak. After all, Nissalke's been around for only two ofthe losses. But he prefers to tackle the streak head-on. "I told the players I can see how the team lost a lot ofgames, and how they won only 15 last year," Nissalke said. "It isn't going to be easy." Cleveland's 119-95 loss to the Milwaukee Bucks Sunday night matched the NBA record of21 consecutive losses over two seasons. The Detroit Pistons lost 21 in a row in 1979-80 and 1980-81. -AP 
Negotiations aimed at ending the six-week old National Football League players' strike were recessed after an air of optimism reverted once again to frustration. Player representatives, angered over a management wage-scale proposal, charged the club owners with moving backward in negotiations. They later vented their anger in a one-hour meeting with mediator Sam Kagel in New York City last night. -AP 
Irish unranked by AP 
No. 1 Pitt opens wide margin 
By HERSCHEL NISSENSON 
AssociatedP1·ess 
The Pitt Panthers opened a commanding lead today in The As­sociated Press college football poll, while Washington fell from second to lOth and Southern Methodist moved past Georgia into the runner­up position, 1ts highest ranking in 32 years. 
In addition, ,Arizona State ~hot from seventh place to fourth, while Miami and Auburn dropped out of the Top Twenty and Maryland and Florida replaced them. 
Pitt, a 63-14 winner over Louis­
ville, received 48 of 60 first-place 
votes and 1,181 of a possible 1,200 
points from a nationwide panel of 
sports writers and sportscasters. 
· SMlJ trounced Texas A&M 47-9 
and nosed past Georgia into second 

In this year's NHLplayoffformat, the top four teams in each division make the playoffs, regardless of overall league standing. 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE 
Adams Division 
w L T GF GA Pis. 
Montreal 7 2 3 57 41 17 
Quebec 6 4 1 59 53 13 
Boston 5 4 3 39 40 13 
Buffalo 4 5 3 50 49 11 
Hartford 2 6 2 32 49 6 
Patrl~k Division 
NY. Islanders 11 2 0 66 36 22 
Phttadetphta 8 5 0 54 40 16 
N.Y Rangers 6 7 0 53 54 12 New Jersey 37343569 Washington 36 36497 Pittsburgh 39 42707 
CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Smythe Dvislon 
w L T GF GA Pis 
Winntpeg 6 3 1 51 32 13 Los Angeles •5 4 3 47 49 13 Calgary 5 7 2 66 65 12 Edmonton 4 6 :l 59 65 11 Vancouver 4 6 2 43 39 10 Norris Division Minnesota 9 2 1 54 37· 19 Chicago 6 2 4 52 43 16 St. Louis 5 7 0 44 48 10 Toronto 2 5 4 38 45 8 Detroit 3 8 37 58 7 
Yesterday's Result 
Calgary 6. New Jersey 3 
Tonight's Gamas 
Vancouver at Quebec 
Mtnnesota at Hartford 
New Jersey at Montreal 
Pittsburgh at N Y Islanders 
Detroit at St. Louis 
place with five first-place votes and 
1.095 points. Second is the Mus­tangs' highest standing since they were No.1 for two weeks during the 1950 season. 
Georgia received three firsts and 1,092 points following a .34-3 tri­umph over Memphis State and Arizona State, which turned back Southern California 1 7-10, earned three .firsts and 986 points. 
Pitt, SMU, Georgia and Arizona State are unbeaten and untied, as is Arkansas, which defeated Rice 24-6. The Razorbacks received the remaining first-place vote and 964 points in holding onto fifth place. 
Rounding out the Top Ten are 
Nebraska, Penn State, Alabama, 
UCLA and Washington. 
Nebraska remained No.6 with 891 points following a 52-0 rout of Kansas. Penn State trounced Boston College 52-17 and climbed from eighth to seventh, while Alabama downed Mississippi State 20-12 and rose from ninth to eighth with 754 points. 
UCLA, unbeaten but once tied, whipped Oregon 40-12 and jumped from 11th to ninth with 727 points, while Washington, which had been No.I for six consecutive weeks ear­lier in the year, plummeted from second to ninth with 660 points af­ter losing to Stanford 4 .L-'> I. 

The Second Ten consists of L'iU, Florida State, Clemson, Oklahoma, Michigan, Southern Cal, West Vir­ginia, North Carolina, Maryland and Florida. 
Last week, it was UCLA, Southern Cal, I~'ill, Florida State, Clemson, Miami, Oklahoma, West Virginia, Autmrn and Michigan. 

APTop20 

The Top Twenty college football teams tn The As­sociated Press poll, with first-place votes in. paren­theses, thts season s records and total points. Points based on 20·19·18-17 etc. Notre Dame oponents are 
ita#cized 

1 Pittsburgh (48) 7-o-o 1,181 2. So. MethodiSt (5) 8-0·0 1,095 3. Georgta(3) 7-0-0 1,092 4 Anzona State (3) 8-0·0 986 5. Arkansas (1) 7-0-0 964 6 Nebraska 7-1-0 891 7 Penn State 7-1-0 850 8. Alabama 7-1-0 754 9. UCLA 7-0-1 727 10. Washtngton 7-1-0 660 11. Louisiana State 6-0-1 602 12. Florida State 6-1-0 543 13. Clemson 6-1-1 415 14 Oklahoma 6-2-0 306 15. Michigan 6-2-0 294 16. usc 5-2-0 281 17. West Virginia 6-2-0 2<7 18. North Carolina 5-2-0 233 19. Maryland 6-2-0 184 20. Florida 5-2-0 121 
.an The saga of a

Brt 
6 month old domer. 

Classifieds  The Observer wtll accept classtfieds Mon­day through Frtday. 10 a.m. to 4 30 p.m. However. classtfieds to appear tn the next tssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the bustness day prtor to tnsertion All classtfteds must be prepatd. etther tn person or through the mat I  
~-NO_T_IC_ES~~~~_FO_R_R_EN_T~~~~__TIC_K_E_TS~ Surplus jeeps. cars and trucks avattable. Nice furnished house 2 blocks to N D. You Won't Bellev. It But ... I need two Many sell for under $200 Call 312-742· 277-3604 or 288-0955 Penn state Ga's, and rather badly at that. 1143. ext 7316 for 111formation on how to Do you want to make my entire career here under the Golden Dome complete? purchase Student Hous1ng Clean Sale $100/mo. 291·1405 Then plea..sell me your Penn st. trx call TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 cindy at 2948 Help · My mom IS bnngtng Jim M01rison and two other fnends 1n from the AfricanlOST/FOUND ,,L--_W_A_N_TE_D~ Conttnent to see Penn State play football So I need 2 GA"s and two stuc1. tix lor ultra htgh bux call Mark at 3249 Desperately need nde to P1tt vs N D LOST: PENTAX 35mm camera. game Will leave anyt1me. Share ex­WILL PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENN tn Green Ftetd area Help! Call 1 025. penses. Thereze · 284-4298 STATE GA TIX. CALL 312·565-5959 COLLECT AND ASK FOR STEVE LONGLEY. HELP!! I lost my class nng on Saturday! 3 Rtdes needed Champatgn-Urbana ISU. Black onyx wtth dtamond 1n the mtddle, in­Weekend ol Michtgan game. Nov. 6. Call Need Penn State Gas. Witt pay cold nard itials HLS 83 on the instde ...i can't leave 4 Al282-1630 cash. 8539 years at N.D. wtthout something to show for 11!!! Please call 3564. or 8055. Reward GOLLY JEEPERSI I need two PENN NEED RIDE to U. of ttl. this weekend. Wtlt STATE GAs. btg brother would like to see share expenses Marya 1266/7 a game w1th Pop. Call DAVE at 1165 LOST:a Se•ko digital watch ... sttver . solar battery Please call Larry at 1722 Riders wanted to Ptttsburgh for the Pin NEED PENN ST GAs BIG TIME! $$$REWARD .. LEWARD...REWARD game. Witt be leaving Frdiay betwen 10 CALL 1627 and 11 a.m. Call Ttm at 8631 NEEDED DESPERATELY! 2 g.a. tix to LOST: White folder With Observer togo on the penn st. game. The earlier you call the front cover and white legal pad tnstde·. more deluxe your bux. call matt 277·4573 Also green Saint Mary·s spiral notebooK of news class notes. Lost on Fnday the FOR SALE Need 2 GA's & 2 student tix for Penn St t 5th. Hetp! Anyone wtth :nfo call Margaret First game ever for my famtly 277-0593 at (284)4316 or leave message at 01>­.......,. office (239-!>303). FOR SALE: Girl's stze 9 suede Jacket. t need Penn State ttckets' Student or GA Marya 1266/7 Melissa x1308 LOST· my heart to a beautiful Mtdwe"ern FOR SALE 1 Pitt Gt, Or w1tt trade for HELP! Need two PITT GAs. Please call gtrt. Call me up tontte. okay? Penn State GA. Call t< nat 288-1917. Nancy 1880  HELP' Haven t seen parents in 3 months and won't see them til Chnstmastime un­less I can get some PENN STATE G A s Please reumle me w1th my parents Kathy x6973. Thankyou HELP! t need 4 Penn St GA t1x Call Bnan at 255-3287. Need 2 G. A tix for Penn. State game Parents want to see first ND game Please call Nancy 4449 SMC Wanted. 4 G A's for Penn St. $$Call Sue x5429 (smc) $$ We need Penn State GAs Call Dave · 3673 (best tate) or T1m 3667 Need two GA"s for Penn State $$$are no problem Galt Mike at 3626 FREE BEER or 2 PITT !lx (or both) wanted. Call 1374 Wanted. 2 GAs to Penn St. Name your pnce 6849 after 1 0 pm. I need tickets to the Pin game Please call Art at 277-8371 NEED 4 PITT TtX CALL 1175 NEED PENN STATE GA TIX CALL 1173 t NEED 6 GA"S and all the help I can get 1n findtng them They don t have to be together 7947 Ask lor Kathy THANKS help need Penn St t1x student or GA Galt Steve 8670 or 6681 WE NEED PENN ST TICKETS CALL DAVE OR DON 1850 t NEED PtTT.PENN ST GAs $$$CALL BRENDAN 3207  Yo Bndget happy 18th btrthday you fox monster you ~ERSONALS love ya At & A2 ASSOCIATE WITH US HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES, 1-2 YR. GOOD LUCK, DZAVE flf POSTGRAD SERVICE PROGRAM WITH SIMPLE CHRISTIAN LIFESTYLE MAIT So you dtdnt like the leotards huh? IN USA AND CHILE. CHILE DEADLINE we·tt do •t aga1n somettme wtthout them? NOV. 4. CALL MARY ANN ROEMER GUESS WHO 5293. Kelly green underwear. brown shoes. w1th SENIORS a tu•. stnpes wtth plaids. and my per·FOR 1983-85, CONSIDER WORK WITH sonals all in BAD TASTE the theme of HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES this fall's BEAUX ARTS BALL PROGRAM IN CHILE. APPLICATION DEADLINE NOV. 4TH. CALL MARY Its comtmg soon. The BEAUX ARTS ANN ROEMER 5293. BALL Fn. Nov 12 8:30PM Featunng the sounds of THE VERBS Candtdate forQ. What do you call a hot dog w1tt1 the ·Event of the Semester most dehmtely ms1des au taken out A. AHollow Ween1e! Karen J Congratulations for acceptance to Loyola No more small town blues! If you want to do New York nght-do 1t with the F1tz Thanks Kelly and Nancy I had a ENGINEERS NIGHT AT SENIOR BAR great time~ Tuesday Nov. 2--10 prn Love, Glona P S. Nancy, the phone 1s for you!! ENGINEER"S NIGHT AT SENIOR BAR Tuesday. Nov. 2--10 pm And a btg Hello! goes out to Mary Jane, Kathy. Julie, Therese. and Amy, Wild ENGINEERS NIGHT AT SENIOR BAR Walsh Frosh! Tuesday. Nov 2--1Opm TO OUR FRIENDS OF 61 W 62nd DDT did a job on me ST (17J) Now I am a rea! sickie NYC AND ROCK PUB WILL NEVER BE Guess I'll have to spread the news THE SAME Mr Butlers boxers. Gutdo That I got no mind to lose danc1ng shopp1ng from strangers 1n Gonna get my PhD Central Park lunch at The I'm a Teenage Lobotomy Saloon Colleen s apt .keys 1n Bos­ton...unexpected bustness Slugs and snails are after me men cocktails waterskung on Hudsor DDT keeps me happyR. GW bldg. Its JUst a funny thtng' Now I gonna have to tell ·em Contustng Thanks for the laughs and That I got no cerebellum crazy ttmes!!! All the girls are in Jove with me LOVE YA! KAREN. JULIE. ELLEN I'm a Teenage Lobotomy SHEILA, JOAN. KRIS  

The Observer Tuesday, November 2, 1982 -page 11 

Clemson awaits word ofNCAA's verdict 
GREENVILLE, S.C. (AP) -The NCAA's Infractions Committee has reached a decision on the fate of defending national champion Clem­son's football program but won't make it public for now, says a com­mittee member. 
The committee, meeting at Indian Lakes Resort in a Chicago suburb, met with Clemson officials Thursday, Friday and Saturday, then held a seven-hour huddle Sunday, according to committee member Minette Massey of the University of Miami. 
The National Collegiate Athletic Association has spent 19 months looking into allegations of football recruiting violations. 
Radernamed 12thRanger 
manager 
ARLINGTON, Texas (AP) -Doug 
Rader, who never has managed in 
the major leagues but was a fun­
loving, five-time Gold Glove winner 
as a player, became the Texas Ran­
gers' 12th Qlanager in 12 years yes­
terday. 
Rader, 38, who spent three years as manager ofthe Hawaii Islanders of the Pacific Coast League, the San Diego Padres' Triple A farm team, of­ficially was named to manage the Rangers at a 1 p.m. news conference. Hawaii posted a 221-20 I record and made the PCL playoffs twice. 
General Manager joe Klein in­troduced Rader as his choice to rebuild a team that lost 98 games last year in the American League West. Rader replaced interim Manager Darrell johnson, who took over last July after Don Zimmer was fired. 
See RADER, page 12 


fii1U.RSD4YI 
AT Tnr i SNITf 
lt"s an event: 

MUSEUM TOURS 
CIDER &DOUGHNUTS 
BUTTONS 
NOV.4 

4 TO 8PM 

&r..........................................................l 
r--·coM--PIEfE--t \ BEAUTY ~ ~ SERVICE i ~FASHION ~ ~ FLAIR ~ ! BEAUTYJ ~~',' SALON
.
i :r ·. · *REDKIN i ~ ._ , ' SCIENTIFIC ~ 
~ HAIR CARE CENTERi 
i Precision Cutting, Perms, ~ ~ Correcting Hair Coloring i 
\ Next to Cira's Restaurant i \ Evenings by Appt. · ~ 
~ 2009 Miami ~ ~ 288.0733 i 
....,.,..__........~_,........~......~...........,Jt 
"A decision has been made," she said told The Greenville News from her home late Sunday, "but all 1 can tell you is that it will go back to Kansas City to be typed up and a confidential report will be mailed to Clemson. 
"Clemson has 1 5 days to decide whether to take an appeal or not. Ifit does not take an appeal, the decision officially will be released from Kansas City. !fit does take an appeal, it will not be heard until a later date." 
An appeal is presented before the NCAA council, which is scheduled to hold its next meeting in january. 
Although Massey would not be specific about the six-member In­fraction Committee's three-day ses­sion with Clemson officials, she said: "everyone behaved and performed well and were well prepared. Everyone was as congenial as they coulrl be, -·i..!~-.:•.: circ_,nstance1>. 
Clemson officials returned Sun­
day to await the panel's verdict. 
"We know nothing," university at­
torney : .• urns Rosen said Sunuay 
evening from his Charleston home. 
Rosen said Clemson would be 
notified within 24 hours ofan NCAA 
news release on the decision. 

r--------------------------------------------------------::::~-~=-----------------1 


Tarquinio (17). The "Gold Rush" forced Tar­Bob Clasby (91) break through theNavy offensive quinio into a GiantsStadium-record six intercep­line to putpressure on Middie quarterback Tom 
Irish defensive linemen Mike Gann (78) and tions. (Photo by Scott Bower) 

nsparenSie30Cn 
Viennese style, with a touch of cinnamon. 

''Economisez 30C'' 
Smooth and light, French-style. 

eeRisparmia 30en 
Creamy rich, with an orange twist. 
I 


''Sdbhaii30C'' 
Delicious, like a chocolate after-dinner mint. 


nRisparmia30C'' 
Deticate and aromatic, with just a kiss of amaretto flavoring. 
I 
I 
I 
FRENCH STYLE INSTANT COFFEE BEI/Er.AG! 


eapj,Ttccino
ITALIAN ST'I'lE INSTANT COFFEE BEVERAGE
7' <~~"'f~~.<.%f!>,.i"-<iM'i'"c<·' J~ 
;;.;,._ :·:·.... 
GENERAl food).• INtERNATiONAl CotfEES 
JrishJWOchaJlfint 
IRISH SffiE INSTANT COfFEE BEVERAGE 

GENERAl food>: 
• INTERNATioNAl CottEES 
Suissel\1ocha 
SWISS STYLE INSTANT COFFEE BEliE RAGE 
_..J' Gn>~EIIAI Food>.• ~\:."'C'!INtERNATioNAI CoffEEs 
I 
CAFE~o I 
ROMAN ST\'LE IN,IA'H COFFEE BEV<;r. 
NON ALCOHOLIC '""' --~ -~­
I 


~---------­




,30¢ nSaYeJocn 


I ~•:aw:.~• ~w• •wt.·~• ~· ~• I
(,..'/.~ li·mnr. c.lil'!w«:M l9a/!i1fiCOino Jnsb7ofod.oM,., Snls..., ~t"'"" 00"£~ 
0 ,,.-·•--•-.._.,...,.~~..·--~~~·~-~---~·--•••--~··~·•"'""--~••••~·•••w• Z 
~ -··:-:--.:~~ ~ 1 ; ~ :_:=:.: : ·-··· --·~:...~ ~ iJH --· 
I~ GENERAL FOODS®INTERNATIONAL COFFEES. ~I 
~ To the retailer General Foods Corp. will reimbu~ you Puerto Rico and U.S. Gov't. Install. Cash value: 1/20¢. ~ for the face value of this coupon plus 7¢ for handling ~ Oollll• Coupon will not be honored if presented through out­
(:51

you receive it on the sale of the specified product and if side agencies. brokers or others who are not retail upon request you submit evidence of purchase thereof •1111• distributors of our merchandise or spec~ically autho-I satlsfactory to General Foods Corp. Coupon may not rized by us to present coupons for redemption. For be assigned. transterred orreproduced. Customer redemption of propeny received and handled must pay any sales tax. Void where prohibited. O£NEIIAlFOOOII coupon. mail to: General Foods Corp .. PO. Box ~ taxed or restricted by law. Good only in U.S.A.. 103. Kankakee. IL 60902. 
30

30~ This coupon good only on purchase of product indicated. Arry other use constitutes fraud. ~
~ 

GENERAL FOODS CORPORATION ... 
______________________,______.,__________, Cl General Foods Corporation 1982 
----·---------·-----·--------------· 
The Observer Tuesday, November 2, 1982-page 12 

joe Rudzinski (51) moves in to make the stop on Navy tailback Bryan Caraveo (right). Rudzinski had five tackles in Saturday's 27-10 Notre Dame victory. (Photo by ScottBower) · 
YOUR CHANCE TO COME TO LONDON 
Junior-year programs, Postgraduate diplomas, One-year Master's degrees and Aesear<h opportunities in the socialsdences are oHered at the London School of Economics and Political Science. 
The wide range of sub1ects 1ncludes 

Accounting & Fmance. Actuarial SCience. Anthropology, Bustne~s Studies Economtcs. Econometncs. Economtc Htstory, European Studie!> Geography: Gove.rnment. lndustnol Relatt~ns. International History. International Relat tons. law. Management Sctence Operottonol Research Phtlosoph 
Plonn1ng Stud1es Populoflon Stud1es. Politics. Sea-Use Policy, 5oc ~j
1 

Adm1mstroflon. Soc1al '1-.brk. SoCiology. Soc10l Psychology. Statistical and 
""'""'""'""' S<O~<O< ''""m' Aoo;,,;, AppliCation blank~ f10ni Admlulonslte-gistrar. L.S.I.. Houghton Str..t, loncton WC2Pleose 1tale whathe,. iuniof" y.ar or postgraduot•  ' , Englon.l  ~~-'~·~~ _  
~  
~-~~  

London School of Economics and Politira! Science 
Eastern swing 

NDwomen third in Penn tourney 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

It was a good fall hreak for the Notre Dame women's volleyball team. The team traveled to Philadel­phia to take on its wughest competi­tion of the year and, by playing well, greatly enhanced its chances for an :"1/CAA tournament bid. 
The t1rst stop for the Irish was the 
University of Pennsylvania Invita­
tional. They came within one point 
of advancing to the tinals, tinishing 
with a +2 record Ill the tournament 
and an impressive third place 
showing. The losses came against 
the eventual tournament champion 
and runner-up. 
Notre Dame was pitted against host Penn in the tirst match. Penn, the tournament champion, did not supply a nice welcome, taking both games. The Irish turned things around, however, as they handled Cornell ( 15-7, 15-11 ), Wake Forest (15-:3, 15-12). Colgate (16-14. 16­
14), and Duke ( 15-6, 1'i-2) easily to reach the semifinals. 
Cornell, which had lost to the 
Irish already, was the opponent. Af­
ter the Irish took the tirst game, I 5­
8, it appeared that they would get a 
rematch with Penn in the finals. 
However. Cornell fought back to 
win the second game:. 15-1 :3. and 
force a third and final game. 
Once again, Notre Dame ap­peared ready to go on to the tinals as it jumped out to a 14-1 1 lead, needing just one more point for a victory. Cornell hung tough, though, and came back to take the: last five 
points and the match. 
Coach Sandv Vanslager's Irish proceeded to take their act to the Main Line to play Villanova Univer­sity. The Wildcats, however, were no match for the smarter and quick­er Irish. Notre Dame won the match in three straight games, 16-6 (the Villanova scorer made an error), 16­
14, and I 5-4. 
"The girls were functioning as a 
team." said Vanslager. "There was a 
lot oi good movement from offense 
to defense." 
"They didn't err as much," added 
Assistant Coach Dan Anderson. "The 
coverage and the defense was 
good." 
"We've seen an overall improve­ment in individual play," continued Vanslager. "which we expected at this point in the season. We would have been even stronger except for injuries. Karen Bauters is still hur­
ting. She couldn't get up on her jump because of her bad ankle. We also really could have used (injured co­captain )Josie Maternowski." 
Injuries was not the only problem that the team was forced to overcome. A shortage ofplayers was also a major problem. Because of their budget, Vanslager and Ander­son could only bring eight players to Philadelphia. 
Co-captain Mary Jo Hensler, be­
cause of Maternowski's absence, had 
to fulfill all the duties oi team cap­
tain. Hensler. Bauters (who is 
valuable to the team even when 
injured), Terese Henken, Jackie 
!'agley, Robin brael, Nancy Evans, 
and Maureen Morin needed to have 
the stamina to last as many matches 
as necessary. 
The October break activity did not end in Philadelphia, however. The team had to play in another tournament at Lake Michigan Col­lege last Saturday. 
This tournament included some small schools from Michigan and Ohio and was comprised ofgames to 
II. rather than of games to 15. The 
results  arc  not  recognized by  the  
NCAA.  
The  team  started  out  slowly,  

making many servtce errors as the players had trouble adjusting to the cramped quarters in the Lake Michi­gan gym. The lack of room also gave the team problems in setting up sptkes. While waiting for the set, the sptkers were forced to stand right against the benches. 
By the time the team adjusted to the situation. it had no chance to reach the finals. It finished up the tournament with a 5-:3 record. 
The team's :-.iCAA-recognized record is now I0-1 as it heads into its t1nal five matches. Tbe next match is tomorrow when the team travels to Tri-State Cnllege for a triangular meet with Tri-State and IU-PU Fort Wayne. 
... Rader 
continuedfrom page 11 
Own~r Eddie Chiles also elevated 
Klein from his farm director's job to 
general manager after firing Eddie 
Robinson 
Jim Lc:vland, third base coach for 
the Chicago White Sox, was the 
other finalist in Klein's search for a 
manager. 
Rader was known as "The Roos­ter" during his playing days, which included nine years with the Hous­ton Astros. 
Asked what kind of a player he was, Rader said: "I was a good player at the end ofthe game when it meant something. I enjoyed every game to the hilt ... I played hard." 


The Observer Tuesday, November 2, 1982 -page 13 


Bas-eball colllmissioner falls in o-wners'vote 
CHICAGO (AP)-Bowie Kuhn, in 
his 14th year as commissioner of 
baseball, was fired yesterday in a 
vote of owners that ended 11 
months ofwrangling over his fate. 
The commissioner was fired in a vote by the National League owners, despite gaining .a majority. The vote was 7-5 in favor of Kuhn's re­election, but he needed three­quarters of the votes, or nine. The American League vote was 1 1-3 in favor ofretaining Kuhn. 
Kuhn's second seven-year term as commissioner expires August 13, 1983, when a new commissioner must be elected. None has been selected yet. 
Although the dissenting votes in 
the National League were not an­
nounced, they reportedly were cast 
by owners Nelson Doubleday of the 
New York Mets, August A. Busch of 
the St. Louis Cardinals, Ted Turner 
of the Atlanta Braves, John McMul­
len of the Houston Astros and Wil­
liam Williams ofthe Cincinnati Reds. 
The announcement, made by American League President Lee MacPhail and National League Presi­dent Chub Feeney, followed a joint session ofthe owners that lasted on­ly 27 minutt;s. 
"We regret to say the commis­sioner failed re:election," MacPhail said. 
Feeney said the NL vote was taken on a proposed compromise that 
... Trip 

continuedfrom page 16 
failed to put them away. The Demon 
Deacons scored off of a couple of 
corner kick situations to notch the 
win. 
Nevertheless, the team and Hun­
ter had to be pleased with the trip, 
especially in light of their lack of 
success in past October breaks. "The 
Greensboro win was great," tri­
captain Jay Schwartz said. "They 
were a little overconfident. And that 
was such a big crowd. So it was nice 
to beat them there in that situation." 
The Irish will play their last two 
garr.es this week with one change in 
th•: schedule. Grace College has 
ff:moved itself from the schedule on 
','uesday. Bethel College will take its 
place, playing Wednesday after­
noon. The Irish will close out the 
season on Saturday at the University 
ofToledo. 
Though Akron and Indiana will 
probably take the Great Lakes 
region's two playoff spots, the Irish 
have to be credited for their deter­
mination in turning the season 
around. After the shaky start, the 
team could have packed it in, espe­
cially after injuries to two of the 
three captains, Mike Sullivan and Jay 
Schwartz. Instead, they can take 
pride in the effort they've shown and 
look forward to even better things 
nex•t season. 
would have kept Kuhn in office but would have added a business officer known as COOBA, for "Chief Operating Officer of Business Af­fairs." 
However, five NL owners refused to accept the proposal, apparently because the business officer would have reported to the commissioner, and that was enough to block Kuhn's 
chances to staying in office. 
Kuhn, whose job came under heavy fire as early as last December, BlairKiel (5) tossed this pass to Larry Moriarty refused all attempts to give the busi­for a touchdown in the third quarterofSaturday's 
ness officer equal or greater power 
Navy game. The !B-yard connection was Kiel's 
than the commissioner. 


Irish runners impress new conference foes 
By NAT RICH 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame cross country team raced twice over break, and the net result was an impressive meet victory and a pleased coach. 
In the first meet, the Central Col­legiate Conference championships, the Irish nailed down seventh place in a highly competitive 25-team meet. Said CoachJoe Piane, "We ran OK, but not our best. Overall I was pleased with how we did, that was a tough race." 
Last Saturday, though, brought out Notre Dame's best. Running against the members ofthe recently­joined Midwestern Cities Con­ference, Notre Dame barely nipped Oral Roberts University by a score of 28-29, and took first place overall. 
Ira Progoff Intensive Journal Workshop® November 6 and 7 
Process Meditation Workshop December 4 and 5 
Indiana University at South Bend 237-4261 
·.·-iheriiO".nG~;..-o-resoC'ieiYoTFi'Oir.-Dc.-n;;-1 
I 
Presents 1 
..Contemporary lssoes Lecture Serles..11 Wednesday flights 8:15-9:1 5 1 I Rm. 115 o·shag Hall I1Q and fl Period following presentations 1 

1 ftov. 3 1InEuthanasia and 'Living Wills ••• I 
1 Dr. Charles Rice. I 
'-It .D. Law School 1 

~~---------~--------------J 
Ralph <..:aron led the Irish with a third place finish and a time of23:19. Marc Wozniak finished fourth and Andy Dillon took fifth. Tim Cannon and Tim Bartrand wound up seventh and ninth respectively. 
Piane was very pleased with his team's showing,"I'm really happy with that performance, especially being against the member~ of our new league." 
The Irish coach also looked op­timistically towards the NCAA Dis­trict IV championships on November 13. "We're running very aggressively and confidently right now, artd that's what we'll have to do to make it to the nationals." The Dis­trict IV Championships involve all Division I teams from six Midwes­tern states, of which the top four 
proceed to the National Champion­ships. 

Graduating in Engineering, Computer Science, Accounting or Finance?* 
Consider AN R's career possibilities 
OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION .. . 
NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION, STORAGE .. . COAL GASIFICATION & SYNTHETIC FUELS 
DEVELOPMENT... COAL DEVELOPMENT & 
MARKETING ... INTERSTATE TRUCKING FREIGHT SYSTEM. 
second TD pass of _the afternoon, and of the season. Kiel rolled up 220 yards passing against the Midshipmen. (Photo byScottBower) 
American Natural Resources Company is a Michigan-based. $.l+ billion, multi-company corporation involved in these diverse activities. ANR diversity translates directly into increased career development opportunities forJou. .. 
Our history is one of success. Our continue growth prospects are excellent! Register in the Placement Office today for an on-campus interview. You could become part of the American Natural Resources Systell'. 

American Natural 'Resources Company 0ne Woodward .lVPnuP. Detroit. Michigan 48:.:26 • Pl3) 965-8300 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 

*Register for a Friday, November 12th On-Campus Interview. 
•. 



The Observer Sports Special-Irish 27,Navy 10 Tuesday, November 2, 1982-page 14 
Irish sink Navy 




K.iel, Duerson help break slump 
By RICH O'CONNOR tend to stick with a combination of were there all day long." Sports Writer drop-back and rollout passing to use Despite Ktiel's 18-of-34, 220-yard the players' talents fully and keep outing and Pinkett's performance, 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -The our opponents off balance." Navy refused to give up, even when Notre Dame Gold Rush defense A well-organized, ball-control behind by 25 points. forced Navy quarterback Tom Tar­short passing attack, hidden since "Navy played well," said Duerson. quinio to throw six interceptions, the Michigan victory six weeks ago, "They displayed a true Navy spirit ­and Blair Kiel connected on his first suddenly reappeared at the never say die. They were still playing two touchdown passes ofthe season Meadowlands. for the win, even at the end of the as the Irish defeated the Middies 27-With five minutes to go in the game." 10 Saturday at the Meadowlands. second quarter, !Gelled the Irish on In a fourth-quarter drive, Tar­
But it wasn't easy. another march. The junior from quinio led Navy 51 yards in 5 plays. 
Notre Dame fans must have felt Columbus, Ind., completed 5-of-9 Bill Cebak caught a 26-yard pass for that they were in for another long passes for 51 yards and moved the the touchdown. The Middies were afternoon when Mike johnston had ball to the Navy 23 in 13 plays, aided in the drive by a 25-yard pass his first field goal attempt of the leading to a johnston 40-yard field interference penalty. game blocked by Navy's Brian goal with 0:35 remaining. Navy tried the onsides kick, and Cianella on NO's opening drive, his Hal Von Wyl's subsequent kickoff when the ball bounced off Hunter, first miss in 14 attempts this year. was then fumbled by Navy's jeff Daniel recovered for the 
Navy took over on its 26-yard line Napoleon McCallum, who took a vi­Middies. After gaining one first and, to make matters worse, cious hit from special-teams stand­down, Tarquinio's second-down marched 61 yards in 10 plays to out Tony Furjanic. jack Shields pass was intercepted by Duerson, Notre Dame's 24. Using a shotgun recovered for the Irish, and and the Irish ran out the clock. Tar­formation, Tarquinio completed 4-johnston kicked a 48-yard field goal quinio finished with 18 completions of-6 passes for 35 yards in Navy's -the longest of his career -to in 44 attempts for 199 yards, but six 
... longest drive of the day . close out the scoring in the first half costly interceptions. But the Middies were having with Notre Dame up, 13-0. Overall, the Irish players and trouble with their snaps, and on In the third quarter, the defense coaches were pleased with Satur­second down at the Irish 24, the came out ready to play, intercepting day's performance -especially af­snap from center Dennis McCall four passes in Navy's first 1 7 plays ter the Oregon debacle the week sailed over Tarquinio's head. and forcing a punt on their other before. Tarquinio picked it up and, under possession. Stacy Toran, Daane heavy pressure, unloaded the ball in­Spielmaker, Mark Zavagnin and "We were concerned about our to the end zone, where Dave Duer­Duerson each picked off a Tarquinio offense. and we've been banged up a son intercepted and returned it 46 pass. After Toran's interception at little the past two weeks as far as in­yards. Duerson's first of three inter­the 7-yard line, Kiel dropped back to juries," said Irish Coach Gerry Faust. ceptions recouped the momentum pass, only to be sacked in the end "But I thought the offense did an ex­lost by Johnston's missed field goal, zone by Eric Rutherford for a safety cdlent job. We're pleased overall, and the Irish never looked back from -the first points given up by Notre but we've still got a long way to go. there. Dame in Giants Stadium, and the first We have to improve, especially Notre Dame then drove 38 yards points given up against Navy since against a team like Pitt next week. to the Navy 21-yard line, but the 1978. drive stalled when Kiel was sacked After Zavagnin's interception, for a 20-yard loss, taking the Irish out Kiel took the Irish 47 yards in five offield goal range. plays with an Allen Pinkett sweep for It didn't take long, though, for the 18 yards, and an 18-yard touchdown Irish to get on the scoreboard. 
pass to fullback Larry Moriarty the-------------------------------------------­Notre Dame's first scoring drive big plays in the drive. 
Even Bill Moor of the normally team, or have we been overly criti­began at the halfway point of the Then the Irish blew it wide open. 
continuedfrom page 16 tame, "rah-rah" South Bend Tribune cal? Or do we have the right to speaksecond quarter. Kiel took the of­After the kickoff, Duerson inter­felt compelled to add his advice. our minds and print what we feel tofense 80 yards in eight plays, the last cepted on Navy's first play, and "Faust should be far too busy to wor­be the truth? Address your com­one being his first touchdown pass returned the ball to the Navy 12­In yesterday's Chicago Tribune, ry about what is being said in the ments ( 200 words or so) to me inof the season -a 3-yard toss to yard line. On the second play from john Husar's column contained a care of P.O. Box Q, Campus Mail,Chris Smith. Kiel was 6-of-6 for 73 scrimmage, Pinkett went off the left scathing criticism of Faust. "He can't newspapers and the dorm hallways," and perhaps I can allot some spaceyards passing on the drive with Tony side for 12 yards and his third career accept critics hounding his go-Moor wrote in yesterday's edition. later in the week to voice yourHunter and joe Howard each touchdown. 
"It's time to go back w work and for­opinions.
hauling in two passes for 30 and 31 Pinkett, making his first start in nowhere offense," Husar wrote. 
get about what the press is writingyards, respectively. place of the injured Phil Carter, "Faust would like to have us all leave and what the students are saying."
Kiel went on to complete nine in a broke the century mark for the first him and his team alune w coach and You've no doubt noticed that I've row -just one short of the Notre time in his college career, carrying play by themselves. Pretty please. 
An apology from Faust may be refrained from making any com­Dame record. 27 times for 129 yards. 
forthcoming, perhaps as early as this ments of my That's because
own.

"We made a conscious effort to "The last two weeks we weren't on Saturdays and bringCome out morning's weekly press conference. this thing has been blown way out of open up the offense," said Assistant executing, so we just went back to only encouragement and compli­
So it would be best to reserve any proportion already; any opinions ICoach Ron Hudson. "By sending basics," said Pinkett. "We used main­ments.just like in high school in Cin­hasty judgments until it appears. would add 
are unnecessary at thisreceivers out all over we were able ly isolations and sweeps with the cinnati ...." time. I've furnished Faust's remarks to spread the defense out and hit the emphasis on execution. As long as But, for now, I'd like to know what solely for the purpose of those who open man." the team wins, carrying for as much Husar got even more vicious, but I you think. Are we really to blame? did not run across them last week in"Blair going outside puts pressure as I did is good. The offensive line think you get the idea. 

Has The Obseroer been fair to the their hometown papers.
on the cornerback," added Of­really did the job today. The holes What we have to keep in mind isfensive Coordinator Tom Lichten­that these are a crucial couple ofberg. "With his speed it gives our weeks for Gerry Faust and the im­offense an added dimension. We in-
mediate future of the Notre Dame football program. This season -and a major bowl bid -can still be salvaged with victories these next

Offense resurfaces 
two weeks against No. I Pirtsburgh and No. 7 Penn State. Saturday's Game The Irish offense played im­Notre Dame 0 13 14 0 -2i 
pressively in spots Saturday, even

Navy 0 0 2 6 -10 Scoring though 'Navy once again performed ND-Smith 3 pass from K1el (Johnston k1ck) more like the Midshipwomen than ND-Johnston 40 FG 
ND -Johnston 46 FG the Midshipmen. If everyone plays 
NAVY-Safety (K1el tackled 1n end zone by Rut-to his potential (how many times herford) 
have we used that word this year?), 

ND-Moriarty 16 pass from K1ei (Johnston kick) ND -Pinkett12 run (Johnston kick) then back-to-back upsets are not out NAVY-Cebak 26 pass from Tarquinio (Tarquin1o 
ofthe question.

pass to Clouse) NO Navy Some of you may feel that I'm 
First downs 24 17 
"chickening out" by not voicing my 

Rushing attempts 46 25 
Net Yards Rush1ng 94 73 opinions. Admittedly, it's a neat 
Net Yards Pass1ng 234 199 feeling to be quoted in the Sun­Passes comp-attempted 19-37 16-44 
Times and assorted other papers in

Had Intercepted 0 6 Total Net Yards 326 272 this country. Fumbles-lost 3-1 1·1 
But it's no fun at all to be made the 

Penan1es-yards 7-66 5-54 Punts-average 8-42.1 7-43 1 scapegoat for Notre Dame's most 
Individual Leaders embarrassing performance in years. 
RUSHING-Notre Dame: Pinkett 27-129; Morns 3-26; Monarty 5-17; Navy: Clouse 14-38; TarquiniO 
So, at least for this week, we'll try 

4-17; Skehan 3-12; Caraveo 2-11, to be nice to the team. Think nice PASSING-Notre Dame: K1el 16·34-0, 220; Kar­
thoughts. Be totally positive going 

cher 0-2-0, 0; O'Hara 1-1-0, 14; Navy: TarquiniO 16­44-6. 199; into Pittsburgh this weekend. That RECEIVING-Notre Dame: Hunter 7-65; Howard Mike Gann (78) chases Naz:v quarterback Tom 
way, if the Irish win, everything will

J-50; Moriarty 3-36; Haywood 2-26; C Stone 1-14. 
Tarquinio (jar right) as Bob Clasby (91) gets hy
P1nkett 1-13; Brooks 1-5; C. Sm1th 1-3; Navy: Stevens be hunky-dory. 4-63; Cebak 4-40; Caraveo 4-26; Clouse 3-23: He1ne Middie guard Bob Dill (74) to pressure Tarquinio 
But if they lose, they will have no 

2-17. Brand 1-10. Attendance -72,201 
one to blame but themselves. 



~i 

lhe~IYer==================================== 



T0 d~x==============T=u=e=s=d=a=y=,N=.=o=v=em=b=e=r=2=,=I=9=8=2==p=a=g=e=I=s 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
ARE YOU k!OPINGMt?I GIJT CRifNIIJPLI/'5T77Mt I RAN 

H£U, &VfN 7HAT'5 SWEJ£7 
AGAIN§! YflJ' 7HE VtlTf./?SWN'r 

I LOVE Of YO//, EJRAJ! 
1111/NT.4 CHO!CC, 7Herii/IINTYOIJ.' 

YOU-' EJ(JTW&HAV/3
7HEY I.Qie YOU! 7H£ R£P/JBLIOIN5 

7H& TWO-fW<!'I LOV8 ~ 7H8 INP&Pfl.la:N75 
5'6!CM707HINI<
f
LOVe YO//, THe £JfM­







Nobody's Prefect 
bill>, I'(L'f /W(otE. S~ESo A !lDIIIILE. MKJ0t.­CPA cAtJt>!OAT€. ANJ:i A tlAS~ O~fi(C'il.. OIIJ TOt oF 1W,.\ StiE D~.> U0Wt..l166A. 
(.UOI(K /IT LO(;/II'J (E.NrER. AN~ "-''<.KS ,lo.T 
ACROSS 1 Bacon fat 5 Chester·

The Daily Crossword fields 10 Destiny 14 Stravinsky or Sikorsky 
15 Paisley fabric, e.g. 
16 Release 17 Rickey item 18 Arterial 
trunk 19 Beverage in Bari 20 Amphi· 
theater 22 Sibling 23 Tree of 
knowledge 
site 


{XJiji'f5 liJIIt 'IOU.. 

Jeb Cashin 

24 Distracted 58 Stylish employee 61 Correlative 
28 Former 62 Stood up cabinet 63 Remarkable member one 
29 Edible item 64 Hoisting 33 Lady of machine Spain: abbr. 67 Greek peak 36 Cozy 68 Forbear retreat 69 Bowed 39 Geological 70 Cunning 
os look 40 Hellman play 71 Afternoon 44 "That's-" affairs 
(1953 song) 72 Soviet 45 Wee pie vetoes 46 Novel 73 Colleen 47 Track 
official DOWN 48 Small bills 1 Violet 51 Chronom· bloom 
2 "It's-!"
eters 3 Lover boy 
Friday's Solution 

4 Saturate 5 Health resort 6 Castilian's 

gold 7 Leading 8 Ludicrous 9 Cache 
1 0 Intensely active 11 Surrounded by 12 Antler branch 13 Harrow's rival 11121s2 21 Alias 
25 Skid Row 
denizen 26 Go-between 27 Glade or 
green 30 Related 31 Hawaii's 
state bird 32 Sketched 33 Fell a fly 34 Branches 35 Unit of 
matter 37 R.R. depot 38 Coverlet 41 Hair styles 42 Munster 
mister 
43 Relative of Mount St. Helens 
49 Greek letter 50 Parchment 
roll 52 Quechuan 53 Terse 
apology 54 Vestige 55 Old prophet 56 Curves 57 Chars 58 Lump 59 Scottish 
philosopher 60 Pelvis 
bones 65 Mesh 66 Wynn and 
Asner 
Campus 

•4 
p.m. History Dept. Lecture, "Transcendental Grace: Biblical Themes in the New England Renaissance," Dr. Timothy L Smith, Director ofthe Program in American Religious His­tory, Johns-Hopkins, Library Lounge, 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colliquium, "Quantum Mechanics as a Conceptual Revolution", Dr. Ed­ward MacKinnon, Rm. 118 Nieuwland Hall, 

•4:30 
-Biology Dept. Lecture, "Black Fly Colonization: Entomological and Biomedical Aspects," Dr. Edward W. Cupp, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•5 
p.m. -Mass, All Souls Day Memorial Mass for stu~ents, faculty, staff and family who have died in the past year, Father Theodore Hesburgh, Celebrant, Sacred Heart Church 

•7 
& 10 p.m. -Film, "Fiddler on the Roof," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Notre Dame Student Union, Sl 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, "The Mechanical Paradise," Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Office of Student Affairs, Educational Media, and the Snite Museum 

•8:30 
p.m. -Film, "The Powers That Be," Chautauqua Coffeehouse, Sponsored by Notre Dame Student _Union, 

•8 
& l 0 p.m. -Film, "Bringing Up Baby," Chatau­qua Coffeehouse, n 

•8 
p.m. -Meeting, Fellowship of Christian Ath­letes weekly meeting, St. Ed's Chapel 

•8:
15 p.m. -Concert, Notre Dame Orchestra, Adrian Bryttan, conductor, Little Theatre, Saint Mary's College 


T.V. Tonight 

Tuesday, November 2 
6:30p.m. 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS News ABC ABC World news Tonight 34 Making It Count 
7:00p.m. 16 Decision '82 22 Laverne & Shirley 22 The '82 Vote 34 The MacNeiVLehrer Report 
7:30 22 Family Feud 34 Straight Talk 
8:00p.m. 16 NBC-TV Election Night Coverage 22 Bring 'Em Back Alive 34 Nova 
9:00p.m. 22 CBS Tuesday Night Movie 34 MYSTERY! !O:OOp.m. 34 Sound Festival 11:0 NewsCenter 16 
11:00 P.M. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Dick Cavett Show 
11:30p.m. 16 NBC-TV Election Night Coverage 22 Quincy & McMillan & Wife 28 The '82 Vote 
Observer note 
------------------~ 

The Observer announces the following promo­tions from news staffto staffreporter: John Burchett, Scott Hardek, Chuck Krill, Dan McCullough, Mike Mazzoli, Cathy Pax, Barbara Pitts, and Mary Ann Pot­ter. Dan Kopp was also promoted from staff reporter to senior staff reporter. 
• 
.. 


• 

I 
t 
I J I 
l 
Freshman tailback Allen Pinkell (20) turns for yardage in Saturday's 2··-10 Irish win overNavy. Pinkett totaled 129yards on the afternoon. hisji"rst 100-yard effortfor Notre Dame. See the foot­ball special nn page 14. (Photo by Scott Bower) 
leerss 1~3, suffersweep in inif'ial home series 
By ED KONRADY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team's first homestand proved disappoint­ing, as it dropped both games last weekend to a very physical North­ern Michigan University team, 5-2 and 4-3. 
The losses dropped Notre Dame's record to 1-3, after an opening­
season  split  with  Michigan  the  
weekend befor e.  
The  series  saw  its  share  of  

penalties, 19 in the first game and 25 in the second. There were a number of five-on-three situations for both teams. However, the Irish could on­ly capitalize on three of nineteen power play situations. 
"We did a lousy job on our power plays," said Coach Charles "Lefty" Smith. "We weren't moving the puck and shooting well. Adjust­ments were made, but we didn't react enough to them. It takes time for new people to get used to the system. 
"The passing and hitting were very poor. We weren't following through on checks, especially back checks. We missed a lot of oppor­tunities around their goal. We just weren't quick enough." 
'. , . whenever you lost as much talent as we did, 
... there are boundto be some question marks. ' 
Both goalies put on a show for the rrowd. Senior Bob McNamara had 27 saves in the first game and 28 in the second tor the Irish. He saved the day on more than a few defensive lapses, with stunning saves on breakaway attempts. 
The Wildcat goalie, junior Jeff Poeschl, had an extremely good series, saving 35 shots in the first 
-game and 36 in the second, many of 
them point-blank. Notre Dame outshot NMU 37-32 
and 39-32, but had trouble putting the puck inside the red posts. 
"We didn't exploit them like we could have," said sophomore winger Brent Chapman. "Their goalie was hot, and (Dave) Mogush and (Eric) Ponath really took advantage oftheir opportunities. But we just had no passing and we didn't play our posi­tions." 
"We've only played one or two good periods this series," said McNamara. "We weren't playing the body enough and they were beating us to the puck. 
We will improve, though. I feel that I'm playing better as games go by. I'm getting more comfortable, both by playing in more game situa­
tions  and  working  harder  in  
practice."  
The  Irish  opened their  season  

with a split against the Wolverines, at Michigan. The young icers took the first game 9-5 and dropped the second, 5-4. 
"I was happy with the way our of­fense played," said Smith. "Whenever you lost as much talent as we did, there are bound to be some questions marks. But I thought we moved the puck well, skated ag­gressively, and put a lot of pressure on Michigan for the most part. I was especially pleased about our balance -I think ten different guys scored goals and 14 had an assist." 
IRISH ITEMS -Senior Kirt Bjork got his second goal of the season Saturday and added two assists, giving him seven points, the highest among the Irish this season ....After his first career hat trick in the first game against Michi­gan, senior John Higgins scored his fourth goal last Saturday, giving him six points, second among the icers ....On the injury list are defensemen Sean Regan, in a body 
cast with a broken arm (out until December), andJohn Keating with a severe thigh contusion (may be ready any day), both of whom missed the series, and Tony Bonadio who suffered a first-degree shoulder separation in th~ second period of Saturday's game ....Attendance for Friday night was 1,589 and Saturday night was 1,563 ....Notre Dame's next series will be against Western 
Michigan University,"with Friday's game at the ACC and Saturday's game in Kalamazoo, with student hockey tickets priced at $1 each. 
Faust remarks cause national stir 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -"There he is! That's the 
one who cost us the Oregon game! It's his fault!" 
And so I was greeted (in jest, ofcourse) upon enter­ing the Giants Stadium press box here Saturday. After a week of being a total recluse, avoiding all contact with newspapers and such, I had no clue as to what my col­leagues were talking about. 
Now I know. 
As some ofyou may know, Gerry Faust holds a press newspapers and when they read that they're not conference via telephone hookup every Tuesday morn­scoring ....after a while they're gonna believe that. ing at the ACC. It is mainly for the benefit ofout-of-town What we have to do is counteract that kind ofthing and media, although local writers are invited to attend. we gotta tell them that we can (score points). 
Normallv, nothing startling is ever said at these Tues­"There are certain things you (the writers) bring out day get-togethers, and if something is, it usually never that are very factual, and those things you have to live 
goes any farther than Fort Wayne anyway. with. If I could take our players and put them in a Last Tuesday, however, was different. vacuum for 12 weeks we'd have less problems. 
In case you missed it, Faust, whose team wa~ coming "Sometimes ..when writers write (negatively) it off an embarrassment-of-a-lifetime 13-13 tie with win­can influence a player to think something that may not less Oregon, had some choice words for Irish fans and really be a problem at that point, but becomes a the media in general, and Notre Dame students and The problem because of the situations that are written.·· Obsemer in particular, in light of his squad's sub-par Those loaded, but seemingly innocent, comments performances the last couple ofweeks. travded across the country faster than a Federal 
What follows is a sampling of Faust's comments, Express package, and sudde1~lv a national crisis wa~ at which were gathered thanks to the cooperation of the hand. · Chicago Sun-Times, USA Today and station WAMJ-AM Undaunted, and probably unaware of the impending 16 in Mishawaka, which taped the conference: uproar, Faust came right back displaying the same at­
•On the Irish possibly underestimating their op­titude the next day in a teleconference with the Bal­ponents: "I think we as coaches have not taken those timore/Wa~hington, D.C. writers who cover Navv 

teams light (sic), and I don't think the players really down deep have taken them light. I think the problem lies that when (the players) are in the dorms ....(they're) around other students, and other students tend to take things lighter, and being in that environment, (it) is very difficult sometimes for us to convince the players otherwise." 
•On how he could instill confidence in his struggling offense: "I think we have to make them believe in them­selves. There wasn't any problem with that until the writers started writing (negative articles), and sometimes writers can be more detrimental than you can imagine ....Young people are gonna read 
football. . 
"We were doing real well," Faust said, "until the writers and fans put it into the kids' minds that thev had scored only so many points or gained so many yards. 
That started the kids wondering." 
Strong statements, indeed. And that's why they ap­peared in newspapers from New York to Los Angeles, and back, last week. 
Faust has subsequently retracted his statements, but it may be too late. The feedback, meanwhile, is just beginning to roll in. 
See NEEDLES, page 14 

Upset UNC-Greensboro 
Irish enjoy 3-1 Southern trip 
By SAM SHERRILL 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame soccer team had 
its best October road trip in its his­
tory last week, compiling a 3-1 
record against very creditable op­
position. Coach Rich Hunter's crew 
ran its record to 14-5-2 as the season 
winds down this week. 
The Irish departed for the swing 
through Kentucky and North 
Carolina on something of a hot 
streak, toppling Marquette in 
overtime on the road and obliterat­
ing poor Valparaiso I 0-0. First up for the Irish was the University of Ken­tucky on the first Saturday of break. In Lexington, ND extended its win streak to four by a score of 3-1. 
Belmont Abbey College was the next victim. The Irish defense was the hero ofthis game, a 1-0 victory. The crucial game of the road trip, however, came on Thursday when the Irish went up against powerful North Carolina-Greensboro. 
UNC-Greensboro had been 
ranked as high as 15th in the country 
until a recent loss to Clemson. The 
Irish were playing before what easily 
was their biggest crowd of the 
sea~on, a throng of about 5,000. But 
instead of cracking, the Irish main­
tained their composure and played 
the game tight early on. Then, late in 
the first half, a fan in the stands blew 
a whistle. One of the Irish freshmen 
thought play had been stopped, so 
he picked up the ball. The ball was in 
the penalty box at the time. One penalty kick later, the Irish were down 1-0. 
Notre Dame came out hot in the second half and tied it just ten minutes into the half. No further goals were scored, and the two teams went into overtime. 
The Irish could smell the upset now, and they apparently weren't 
...-~~--­
about to let the opportunity p~s by as it had against Indiana and Akron. A few minutes into the first overtime David Miles scored on a beautiful bicycle kick. As this was not sudden deat, the teams had to play the entire period. The Irish hung tough, however, and even scored another goal, walking away with a 3-1 overtime verdict, their biggest win 
ofthe season. 
Hunter's squad travelled to Wake Forest University for the last game of the trip, hoping for a sweep and a seven-game winning streak to bring back with them. But it was not to be; as the Irish fell 2-1. Once again; the Irish outplayed their•opponent, but 
See TRIP, page 13 

Student hooptix distribution opens 
Any Notre Dame student who purchased basketball season tickets via the summer application may pick up the tickets at the ticket window on the second floor of the ACC from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. according to the following schedule: SENIORS -Today; 
JUNIORS and all under­graduate students in the ninth semester or higher ­Tomorrow; SOPHOMORES, GRADUATE and LAW students -Thursday; FRESHMEN ­Friday. Any Notre Dame students who have not yet purchased basketball season tickets may fill out an applica­tion and pay for tickets at the Gate 10 ticket windows of the ACC today. These tickets will be available on a first-come, first-served basis and will be distributed to seniors, juniors, sophomores and graduate students on Thursday, from 8 a.m. until 5 
p.m. at the second floor ticket 
window. Freshmen may pick up these tiickets on Friday. 
Package 'A' Lower Arena tickets are sold out. However, Package 'B' Lower Arena and both Bleacher packages are still available. The following games comprise Package 'A': Nov. 27 -St. Francis (Pa.); Dec. 1 -Kentucky; Dec. 7 ­Indiana; Dec. 11 Dartmouth; Jan. 17 
Lafayette; Feb. 2 -La Salle; Feb. 7 -Seton Hall; Feb. 21 ­Akron; March 10 -Northern Iowa. 
The following contests are 
contained in Package 'B': Nov. 
18 -Yugoslavia; Nov. 26 -
Stonehill; Dec. 4 -UCLA; 
Dec. 9 -Fairfield; Jan. 12 ­
Canisius;Jan. 19 -Bucknell; 
Feb. 5 -South Carolina; 
March 3 -Hofstra; March 7 ­
Dayton. 
The SaintMary's StudentAc­tivities Office is handling the sale and distribution of tick­ets for all SMC students. 




