, , ,Hispanic authors -page 6 

VOL. XVI, NO. 106 

an indt>pt'ndent srudent newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, MARCH 1, 19H2 
Nestle defends marketingpractice 
Editor's note: ObserverEditorials stopped in 1978. It had been phased 
'79, we could only verify five per­Editor Anthony Walton and Ex­out over a three to four year period 
cent of those allegations which the ecutive News Editor Kelli Flint partly as a result of the United Na­company then corrected. So, most of recently discussed the infant for­tions protein advisory group 
these lists of allegations are also 
mula issue with Nestle meetings and Nestles own self­things that are unverified and unsub­
representatives Susan Scanlan and investigation of all of its companies. stantiated, and when we attempt to 
Dr. Christenson. The following ex· The second charge of our response 
verify them that's the results that we erpts are from the interview. to the WHO code has been com­find. 
pletely misrepresented by INFACT Q: What is the overall total world 
Q: This is the first time we have -that Nestles is trying to fight the sales figure for, first of all, Nestle seen this kind of active participa­WHO code, trying to keep it from infant formula and second, all 
tion on the part ofa corporation in becoming implemented. Just exact· Nestle products? A: It's impossible a campus issue. W~y is Nestle here, ly the opposite is true. to get exact figures. The best 
es­and what are you trying to ac­Q: Much of the information that timate that I can give you is, world· complish? I've seen used against you is dated; wide, something around J900 
A: Well there is a long list of mis­it'sfrom 1978-79, that time period. million. That's in developed and representations that INFACT has Do you feel that Nestle bas rectified developing countries. made. The first major charge is ag­the charges since then? gressive promotion ofinfant formula A: Well, in terms ofthe abuses that Q: What is the average percentage in developing countries using high· were charged, the list of allegations of profit on a can of infant for­powered Madison Avenue tech­that have been presented, .when mula? niques to convince women to stop Nestles went back to examine those A: Again, I don't think anyone's breast-feeding and to use infant for· allegations ofabuse, for instance, the taken all the Nestle companies and mula. This is basically and complete· list brought by INFACT regarding made an average of what the profit ly untrue. The fact is that we do no the allegations of violations in 1980 is. It's something around five per· advertising of infant formula. It was of the WHO-UNICEF guidelines of cent. 
Literary Festival 
Poet prefers unfamiliar subjects 
By CINDY COLDIRON 
StaffReporter 
Poet Susan Fromberg Schaeffer rarely writes about the people around her, saying that one's per· sonal life should be "separate from one's imaginative life." 
Schaeffer spoke to a ncar capacity 
Writer portrays life's grimness 
By SONIA STINSON 
News Staff 
Robert Credey's poetry and prose often has a tone which is, in his words, "rather grim," but "tells it like it is." His reading of a selection of his works at the Library Auditorium Saturday night marked the close of this year's Sophomore Literary Festival. 
Crcclcy is currently Gray Profes· sor of Poetry and Letters at the State University of New York at Buffalo. He has taught at Black Mountain Col· lege and was editor of the Black Mountain Review. The Arlington, Massachusetts native has written several volumes of poetry, a novel, and a work ofexperimental prose. 
Crcdey's poetry is threaded with imagt'S of light and gray and the bru­talncs..~ oflife and death. Uncertainty is another theme which runs through Creeley's writing, shown in the blurry and fading images in several of his poems. 
lie describes his writing style as "autobiographical," a term he dctincs as "a life tracking itsdf." 
In poems like "Self Portrait", "Time", and "Mother's Voice," <.:reelcy rl·vcals an intense private rctkction. lie wrote "Time" in honor of the birth of his son, marvelling at "this wry, small, vul­nc:rabk, partkular child." 
In "Cirdcs", CrtTlcy commmc:nts on his impressions of t·arly aftt·r· noon T.V. lie rc:calkd of the: ex· pcrkncc: which prompted thl· pm·m: "I thouj.\h it would he ~OI11l' kind of cntertainml·nt. hut alnw~t immediately it wasn't." The poem is about a "test yourself' public service spot on depression: "I took the test, and I'm not depressed." 
Crceley's reading also included a few love: pot·ms and several literary poems in honor of such artists as Coleridge and Allen Ginsberg. 
Creeley said that in his most recent book, Mirrors, he col· laborated wit t h an artist to create a theme called "the angle of in­cidence." The theme is based on the: artist's creative work with glass and refers to the angles "from object to glass, and from glass to eye." 
In "Mabel: A Story," Creeley used an elaborate pattern based on .the numbers one, two and three to create a theme. He joked that when he and other writers use such com­plex patterns in their works, "people foolishly take you seriously." 
This fall Creeley will have published a collection of poems from 1945-1975. 
Elections,referendum setfortomorrovv 
Class and 0-C Commissioner elections arc set for tomorrow, in addition to the referendum on the Nestle boycott. 
Here are the candidates for the class oftkes: 
Classof'83 
Bill Hennessey (pres.), Tom O'Brien, Anne Chapski and Rolly Power. Mark Mai (pres.), Kathy Ray, Scan :\1aloncy and Patty Cooney. 
Mike Rij.\ali (pres.), Steve Powc:r, Carolyn Dolan and Fran lkggs. 
Class of'84 
Terry l'arky (pres.), Kathy Coughlin, Connie \1cGaugh and Freddie Rodriquez. 
.\lark Ruchlmann (pres.), Tril'ia Homann, \X'illiam Dawaharc and Bob Thompson. 
Classof'85 
Catherine David (pres.), 
Thomas Lezynski, Eileen Queenan and Michael Schmitt. 
Joe Harmon (pres.), Mark Is· haug, Mary Kiszka and Missi Frcchafer. 
John Kubinsky (pres.), Mike Connolly, Lynn Sciana and Bob Evans. 
Mark Nagy (pres.), Connie O'Brien, Jennifer Brown and Gary Strickland. 
Tom White (pres.}, .Mike Hayes, Joannl' Maducn and Kurt Shinn. 
<:andidatc:s fol' ( >ff-cunpus Com· mis~ionc:r arc Bill Colleran and D;m <:. Devine:. 
crowd in the Library Auditorium 
Friday night as part of the Sopho· 
more Literary Arts Festival which 
concluded Saturday night. 
Reading from her book of poetry 
entitlc:d Alphabetfor the Lost Years 
which contains poems for each let· 
ter of the alphabet, Schaeffer 
remarked that these poems had 
originally started out as riddles. 
Some time ago, she: said, someone 
pointed out to her that she hardly 
ever writes about anyone around 
her. For example, her husband or 
children. Schaefeer agreed but said 
she also thought a poet's work 
should be separate froin his personal 
life. 
Another poem she read, "The Bread," relates to the time when she was ill and her husband took over the cooking. Shaeffer said that she "became perversely dissatisfied with the agreement because I felt I was being replaced." A line from the poem states that "the loaves fed my children who I could not; they fed me." 
Shaeffer said that when one reviewer had criticized her for writing a poem about such an "unimportant animal as a cat," she began a pt·riod of writing poems ex­tensively on thisJ;ubject." 
Schaeffer said the poems she has been writing for the last year and a half "were totally unfit for human consumption," meaning that they were extremely long. She said that her shorter poems seem to have morbid concerns. One poem "Posthumous Poem," was written as if the person who had died was still capable ofspeaking. 
Formuladebate tape to be shown tonight 
By KELLI FLINT 
Executive News Editor 
The video tape of the Nestle:· INFACT debate, sent to Minneapolis after Student Activities Director James McDonnell cancelled 
showings  scheduled  for  last  
weekend,  has  been  returned  and  
will be shown tonight.  

McDonnell said the time and loca­tion ofthe showing will be posted in LaFortune and announced in both dining halls at lunch and dinner today. 
The video tape is the property of the World Hunger Coalition. The WHC sent it to INFACT national chairman Douglas Johnson in Min­neapolis for review following the cancellation. 
The: WHC dc:ddc:d to make thl· tape availabk to \kDonnc:ll primari· ly because he wanted to show it tilr thl' bcndir of those who \\Tre not able: to attend the debate, according to WHC Educational Coordinator George McAleer. 
' ...some of 
Dr. jackson 's statements 
were absolutelyfalse 
"Johnson, after revkwing the: tape. noted that some of Dr. Jack­son's statements were ';~.bsolutdy false'," McAleer said. johnson said that a United Nations representative is issuing a statement today diS<.'rcditing some of)ackson's stall'· mcnts regarding thl' World Health Organization code:, protlt ;md mar· gin of infant timnula 'aln, anu the volume ofsail's in the Third \\'orld. 


ewsBrie/§ 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
The annual alumni phone-a-thonwill be held at Saint Mary's March 1-4, from 6:30p.m. to 11 p.m. The event will be in the basement of LeMans Hall, with student and faculty volunteers manning the phones. There will be 16 phones in use and Ann Hulme, student director, is hoping for 16-20 volunteers to work for one hour each. Each volunteer will caH alumni who have previously pledged over the phone. Arrangements will be made to see that callers are as comfortable as possible with refreshments being offered. In adtlition, volnteers will be offered a free long dis­
tance phone call for about five minutes. This year's goal is S50,000, slightly over last year's total ofclose to $48,000. This money is used as unrestricted income for running Saint Mary's. Hulme calls this a "nice chance for students to get involved in fund-raising." Call her at 4521 to sign up to man a phone; many volunteers are still needed. 
the Observer 
United Auto Workers union members have ratified a historic concessions contract with Ford Motor Co., the union said yesterday as it completed eight days of voting. A1l but 10 of F~rd's UAW bargaining units had voted by Saturday, and the tally was 38,866 to 14,227 in favor ofthe contract, union officials said. The 10 remaining units voting Sunday had fewer than 14,000 votes, so even if every autoworker voted against the pact yesterday, ratification already was assured, UAW spokesman Donald Stillman said. Union officials had said that if ratified, the contract would go into effect today. The tentative contract, to run through Sept. 14, 1984, asks Ford's autoworkers to give up eight paid personal holidays per year, accept a wage freeze for the contract's duration and defer c .ost-of­living allowance payments for nine months. The automaker increas­ingly had been subcontracting work out to overseas and non-union plants in order to hold down labor costs to become more com­petitive with foreign carmakers. Ford, which lost S1.06 billion in 1981, has agreed to a two-year moratorium on plant closings related to subcontracting of work to overseas or non-union plants, strengthening of Suppplemental Unemployment Benefits and guaranteed income for higher seniority workers who are laid off. ­
AP . 
Investigators have evidencelinking wayne B. Williams to 26 ofthe 28 slayings ofyoung blacks that cast a shadow over this city for more than two years, a source close to the case said yesterday. And officials will meet this week to consider closing the books on most of the slayings and disbanding the task force that investigated them. Williams, a 23-year-old black free-lance photog­rapher and self-styled talent scout, was sentenced to two con­secutive life terms Saturday night after a jury ofeight blacks and four whites convicted him of murdering Nathaniel Cater and jimmy Ray Payne. Asource close to the investigation, who asked not to be iden­tified, said authorities had collected evidence to link Williams to as many as 24 victims in addition to Cater and Payne. The source declined to discuss the nature of the evidence. Williams, who main­tains his innocence, has been held since his arrest and is likely to remain in the Fulton County Jail throughout appeals. -AP 
As President Reagan escalates military sup­port for El Salvador, his administration is being forced to defend its credibility against Democrats' charges that Americans are being misled about conditions in the war-torn Central American country. Increasingly, Democrats are claiming that a Reagan "credibility gap" may become the latest parallel with the Vietnam War. "The ad­ministration is so intent in following its ideology, it ignores the facts," charges Rep. Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, who visited El Salvador two weeks ago. "It tries to make the facts fit its ideology.~· The defense ofReagan's Salvadoran policy has fallen largely to Thomas 0. Enders, assistant Secretary in charge of American affairs, who also has drawn much of the criticism. In House and Senate testimony, Enders has depicted the civil war in El Salvador as "the decisive battle for Central America" and attacked organizations that compile human rights information about the country as biased in favor ofthe leftist guerrillas. But some Democrats contend the administration has overstated the Soviet and Cuban support for leftist insurgents and !anted facts about the human rights situation in El Salvador. ­
AP 
EntertainerJohnny Carson has been arrested for investigation ofdrunken driving, Beverly Hills police said yester­day. The arrest took place "a couple ofdays ago, maybe Thursday or Friday morning" on La Cienega Boulevard south of Beverly Boulevard, said Sgt. John Carden. However, he said he wasn't aut­horized to release any other details. He said he didn't know what time ofday the arrest occurred. "I assume he has to go to court," he said. Carson, host of the "Tonight" show and the Academy Awards ceremony, had a blood-alcohol content over .1 0 percent, the state measure for drunken driving, said Sgt. A. Arsdale. -AP 
A domestic travel ban was eased yesterday by Poland's martial law rulers, but Poles must still obey an all-night curfew, submit to strict censorship and cannot leave the country, according to the official news agency PAP. Interior Minister Gen. Czeslaw Kiszcak, the nation's chief law enforcer, also warned in an interview carried by PAP that the government will crack down hard on any new "acts ofterrorism" and that dissidents who work against the Communist government's supreme authority may face deporta­tion. Polish radio also broadcast Roman Catholic bishops' call on authorities to resume talks with the independent Solidarity union, suspended when martial law was decreed Dec. 13 after 16 months of labor unrest. But the broadcast was a sharply edited version of the bishops' statement released Saturday, which also demanded an end to military rule. -AP 
High in the upper 30s tomorrow to ·around 4o. Increasing cloudiness tonight. Low in the upper 20s. Partly sunny and mild on tomorrow. High in the upper 30s and low 40s. -AP 
Monday, March 1, 1982 -page 2 
Changing for the better 
After four years at Saint Mary's, including three that have been spent at The Observer, I've begun to take a different look at many events that have taken place on both campuses, especially at Saint Mary's. 
Before I arrived on campus, the basic idea ofcollege, beside the padded point that I was attending Saint Mary's, was overwhelming. But after a few months on campus, the disillusionment began to sink in. As a senior, much ofthe dissatisfaction has remained but has evolved into concern. Ifjust a few things were changed, Saint Mary's would be an even better place. 
First, the parietal system must be changed. As it exists now, with visitation only on the weekends, the policy is archaic. The last revision in the parietal system was in 1974 when the visiting hours for male guests were ex­tended from 10 p.m. until 2 a.m., and another change is needed -fast. Trying to ignore the fact that Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students might actually like to 
socialize beyond the lobbies of their respective dorms is ridiculous. A SMC Student Government survey will be distributed today to determine attitudes toward the sys­tem. 
The system's basic elements (desk monitors, all guests escorted by hall residents) are realistic, but its hours (Fridays from 6 p.m. to 2 a.m., Saturdays from I 
p.m. until2 a.m. and Sundays from I p.m. to 5 p.m.) are 
not. A change to the hours fort spent on a poorly at­
that exist at Notre Dame tended event, or, if we knew 
(noon to midnight Sunday early enough that it was 
through Thursday and noon going to bomb -a cancella­
until 2 a.m. on the tion. 
weekends) could exist un­Converting the SMC 
der the current system with library (soon to be replaced 
hall residents serving addi­by the Cushwa-Leighton tional desk duty. The new structure) into a student hours could be introduced center "was the only reason temporarily and, if residents I got involved in this hys­did not like the new system teria in the first place," ex­or violated the rules of the plained Student Body proposal, it would be dis­President Eileen Murphy. continued. Vice presidents, of Student 
Increased hours for male visitation would not change the concept of Saint Mary's College as a women's in­stitution, but simply would expand it in the realistic sense that men are a part of the world. ' 
The tenure system is another area of concern. Vice President and Dean of Faculty William Hickey made a two-hour appearance before the SMC Student Academic Affairs Council and interested students last week to answer many questions on t!le issue, but the subject is still very mysterious. Both students and the instituion arc affected by a tenure decision, but when a seemingly qualified teacher fulfills the listed criteria for a tenure candidate and is denied, students wonder. 
The complexities and confidentiality surrounding the system are difficult to sift, yet all are essential to the system as it now exists. Hickey states that every faculty member is aware of the elements ofthe system, yet the tenure process still remains a mystery to the student body. If tenure criteria could be more easily defined to students, at least students would know why a tenure decision was made. 
But even this issue brings up another problem: stu-

Design Editor ....................... :vlonica Gugle Design Assistants....................... Tim Neely 
Layout Staff.  .. .... Monica Dornbach  
Typesetters....  . ................ Bob judge  
Steve Burg  
:viark Miouo  
Raymond lnglin  
News Assistant.  .. ..Bob Vanderheide  

Copy Editors ......................... )oe :vlusumeci 
Paul :vJcGinn Sports Copy Editor... .........Skip Desjardin Typist.. ........................... ......John McCarthy 
:vlary Beth Porter :vlary Agnes Carey Dave Rickabaugh ND Day Editor................ Karen :vJc:vJahon Dave Grote Ad Deslgn ................................. )ohn & :vlary Photographer...... .. ....john :vlacor Guest Appearances .................. Ryan :vlonk Tuesday night Prod? A grey haired man just People 
The Observer (USPS 598 92Q) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation penods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Mary s Col­lege Subscnptlons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntlng The Observer P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. fnd1ana 46556 
THENROTC 
SCHOLARSHIPPROGRAM. 
TUITIONPLUS S2,000 EXPENSE MONEY ANDA NAVY OFFICER COMMISSION 
The two-year NROTC 2 year Scholarship Pl·ogram offers tuition plus two years of expense money that's worth up to S~.JOO, and the challenge of becoming a Navy Officer with early responsibilities and decision-makin~ authority. 
During your last two years in college the Navy pays for tuition, uniforms, all textbooks and an allowance of $100 a month for up to 20 months. Upon graduation and completion of requirements, you become a Navy Officer, with important· decision-making responsibilities. 
Call your Navy representative for more information on this challenging program. 
NROTC UNIT, UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 239-6442 
NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSffiiLITY FAST 

dent involvement, or, more precisely, the lack of it. Tenure only becomes an issue with students when professors are either given ordenied tenure. The rest of the year, the issue is nearly dead. And when students do take the time to comment, many ofthem have not taken the time to examine the issue from all sides: that of the faculty member, that of their own and that of the ad­ministration. 
The best criticisms are based on a knowledge of the system, providing power for one's argument. 
Student "uninvolvement" extends to other areas as well. I was in student government for three years and felt the frustration of planning, publicizing and hoping for an event to turn out well, only to see the same par­ticipants -the members of my hall council, class board and a handful of classmates -attend each function. It became frustrating after awhile. All that time and ef­
and Academic Affairs, Donna 
Perreault and Emmie Lopez, 
respectively, cite the push for the student center, the 
beginning of food sales, and research into the parietal 
and tenure systems as major accomplishments. 
But "working against tradition" has been a major 
struggle, according to Perreault. "Channels of com­
munication are established," and "encouraging innova­
tion" is often difficult. Even confidence in student 
government itself as a "vehicle of change," (a problem 
ND students face as well) has been disturbed. Next 
year's SBP Kathleen Murphy, Perreault noted, "is going 
to have to have a lot ofdrive" to fight the adherence to 
tradition, but it can be done. 
The problems facing Murphy are complex but not 
overwhelming. Saint Mary's has a student body with 
potential -women that come from the upper 12 per­
cent of their high school classes with backgrounds of 
involvement in extra-curricular activities -potential 
that is wasted if students waste their four years in the 
library. Take time to experience college, not just 
academics, while you're here. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views ofthe author, and do not necessarily represent the views ofThe Observeror its editorial board. 

____________________________________________________________j 
The Observer Monday, March 1, 198~-page 3 
Former NBCchairman 
Cahill-Pfeiffer resun1es series 
By MEGAN BOYLE 
Sl~ff Nt>fHJrter 
The Distin)tuished American Women lc:t:uturc: Series will rcsunu: thlo; ewning ;u 8 p.m. with Jane C:thili-Pfc:iffer. management consult­;.mt md former chairman of the hoard of the :'lo!ational Broadcasting Company addressing the issue, 
'"Busine!i.., in thr HOs." 
A trustee of Notre Dame, Cahill· l>feitfer joined NUC after a 20-year c:trt·er with IBM, serving last as vice· president of IBM Communications and Government Relations. ~he is a membt:r uf the President's Commis· sion on White House Fellows ami tbt: Gener.. J Advisory Committee on Arms Control and Disarmament. Her 
Quote 
attribution 
clarified 
In an article appearing in the February 19 Observer, the quote '"There has been a massive move away from breast-feeding through· out the world" was incorrectly at· tributed to Dr. Thad jackson. The World tkalth Organization is rcspon!\iblc for that statement. 
s 
m 
li e 
~~---
.......&ilollillllol...-oi.l 
!THE OAR HOUSEl 
! 
• Beer I 
Open till 1
• Liquor 
3:00am!!!
• Carry out 
-SINGLES BAR -BOOZES DANCING 
272-7818 u.s. 31 North 

· 
t·xpertise as a consultant is in nanagement organization, com· muncations and government rcla· tions. 
Pfeiffer holds directorships in Chesebrough-Ponds,lnc.. the Inter· national Paper Company, J.C. Pen· ney Company and the Overseas Development Council. She is married to Ralph A. Pfeiffer Jr., IBM senior vice-president and chairman of the tirm's Americas -Far East Corp. 
Cahill-Pfciffer is the second speaker in the series inaugurated Nov. 13 by actress Helen Hayes. The University and the Advisory Council ti.>r Women Students are sponsoring the series in celebration of the tenth year of coeducation. Five other speakers, including Marina Whit· man, jane Pauley, jean Wilkowski. Sister Helen Flaherty and Barbara Bush, arc scheduled throughout March and April. 
Marina Whitman, vice-president and chief economist of General Motors, will visit the campus on ,\1arch 9. On April 2, NBC News' "Today'' correspondent Jane Pauley returns to her home state to discuss "A 'Today' Retrospective: From ). Fredd Muggs to Me." 
"Diplomats: Only in Striped Pants?" will be the subject of a talk on April 19 by Jean Wilkowski. for· mer U.S. ambassador to Zambia. Sis­ter Hekn Flaherty, S.C., president of the Sisters of Charity of Cincinnati, will speak on April21 on "Women in Ministry.'' Barbara Bush, wife of the 
U.S. Vice-President George Bush will speak at Notre Dame on April 6. 
Barbara Bush's lecture will begin a 4 p.m. at the Center tor t:ontinuing Education. jane Pauley's speech will also be held at the Center at 8 p.m. All other lectures are scheduled for 8 p.m. in the Memorial Library AuditOrium. 
Tt,..; Observer-=is currently acceptingapplicationsfor the following positions: 
Features Editor Executive News Editor 
Controller  SMC News Editor  
Advertising Manager  Sports Editor  
Production Manager  Photo Editor  
Circulation Manager  Editorials Editors  

Allapplications are due in the Observer offices 5:00p.m. Wednesday, March 3. 
...................................................................................................................... 
Cogtmo'g ffiaUt Ci)egtgn 
18461 St. Rd. 23 South Bend, call for appointment 2 77-18 75 
-shampoo, conditioner, cut style Guys-$7.00 (reg. 13.00) Girls-$10.00 (reg~ 00) 
For Co-Designers Only . 
....................................................................................................................... 


Fascinated by both Donald Duck and the ballons, these children who attended the Saturday womens' basketball ball actually paid little attention to the game itself (Photo byjohn Macor) 

Monday March 1, 7:30pm GRACE PIT PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES 
Applications ate now available COmmiSSIONERS COmPTROLLERS 
movies 

2nd Floor LaFortune 
~··•••••••••t.••••••n••u•tull"""'"'''''''••••••••••••••"'"t'•••••lltlltll............t•••••••••••n•---.­
i DELIVERING to NOTRE DAME I and SAINT MARY'S
i . 
1 Goafather's Pizza® 

Order the EXPRESS DELIVERY: 
Medium pepperoni, sausage, or combo 
and receiue quicker ser"ice. 
IIIIUIIIHIIIII_!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII...III....IIIIIIIMIIIIIIIM...I 
Driver has fresh pizza for salr on truck. 
~.. Thurs. and Sun. 5 PM· 10:30 PM I Fri. and Sat. 5PM · 12:30 AM 
l••••nuta~.......... , .................... , .. ,..,v,,..,,....,....,,....,..,,,,...,,,_• .., ..,...,._,,..,"...,..,_______• 

Monday, March 1, 1982 -page 4
Editorials 
P.O.BoxQ 

Campus Ministry, CILA sup)?9rt boycott 
To the Editor: Boycott. We believe this is a respon-On March 2, we, the students of 
The "facts" on the Nestle's sible action in light of Nestle's inade-Notre Dame and St. Mary's, will Boycott dribble in with growing con-quate and narrow view of corporate have the opportunity to raise our fusion. What is certain is that they are responsibility. It is clear that Nestle voices, for those who do not have a not yet all in. What is almost as cer-has not lived up to the practices we voice. As a Christian community, we tain is that Notre Dame is being used seek to emphasize through this must bear witness to. the children of as a test case by Nestle's boycott. We cannot ignore the harm the Third World who have died and Corporation--"if we can beat it here to many defenseless children through are dying even as we debate. By 
we don't have to deal with the facts at the promotion of infant formula in continuing the boycott, we continue all." countries that do not have the means to affirm life. Campus Ministry continues to nor the education to safely use the The Community for the support the boycott of Nestle's and product. International Lay Apostolate all its subsidiaries and products. We 1=============================t are unconvinced that the real issues have been dealt with ·honestly by the Nestle's Corporation. We are not alone in this conclusion. Responsible world agencies and organizations dealing with infant health and nutri­tion on a day-to-day basis, and various religious communities, are also monitoring this issue. Until they find significant positive progress, we urge continued support of the boycott by the University of Notre Dame. The Office ofCampus Ministry Dear Editor; The Community for the International Lay Apostolate (C ILA), in conjunction with the World Hunger Coalition, urges the Notre Dame/St. Mary's community to continue su · the Nestle  
Student supports Nestle Third. it is well documented that aI have not been there. I have not mother in a developed countryseen the living conditions of the life­provides more nutritious milk for her Robert Findlingless babies due to malnutrition. I find child than a mother in an under-.myself questioning those who so developed country. Her mal­strongly support the INFACT view. nourished body cannot produce the OpinionI must ask if they have seen these proteins needed for the child, result­atrocities. Well? ing often in stunted growth for theWhat I have seen on this campus postpartum period. For a motherwho plaincd their philosophies andin the last few weeks is an interest in is educated of these facts, a supple­thoughts to those interested, and they the universal debate over infant for­ment makes sense. At this point, do have tried to initiate interest in theirmula. not confuse "a supplement" with support.The pieces I have been able. to put commercial formula. Mothers have I have found that INFACT has a. together lead me toward the Nestle implemented a water-based gruel for 500,000.00 dollar budget of whichside ... but not with much strengh, for their young and often times this gruel none goes overseas.I have not been to a Third World has been the cause of intestinal disor­I have found that prior to thecountry either. ders in their child. Death can follow. debate, the whc purchased the rightsFirst the boycott instituted three The gruel differs from country to of the tape ($80.00). Since theyears ago was apparently over the country (ie. banana mash in Southmarketing practices of Nestle in the debate, WHC went to the administra­Am.). The evidence also points to the Third World. Today, Nestle does not tion and subsequently removed the fact that these home made supple­tape from the CCE and sent it to Min­media blitz the rural and urban areas ments cannot provide the essentialsareas of those countries. In fact ( no neapolis (horne of INFACT). The for a child either. pun intended), Nestle implements tape has since been returned and will Fourth, there is a problem withthe International Code of Marketing now be available for viewing. I am contamination of supplements from sorry, but I don't see the Goliath vs.Breastmilk Substitutes in all but use ofthe local water. Although there those countries who wish for the David story here. Why didn't the ad­are many side effects to this issue, I ministration buy the tape? company to maintain a minor would answer the problem as Finally, perhaps I should tell you ·marketing presence (i.e. milk needing further education for the that I have been "bought off." Inurses). The debate highlighted mother. 'fhis is done at the clinics inthose facts. went to breakfast and to lunch with those countries. The problem is that the people from Nestle last week. ISecond, Contemporary Patterns of the procedures for sterilization must found the time I spent with them in­Breast Feeding, which was the study be disseminated to more mothers! valuable, and the steaksandwich and published by the World Health Or­Hoperfully, this scenario permits bagel great too. True, that is time Iganization concludes (pg. 146): In you to see why there is a need. I will did not spend with WHC or IN­no group in the underdeveloped base my support for the company FACT, but I am sure there arecategory did nore than 2/ of mothers from my readings.fail to initiate breast-feeding ... It in­enough people here to tell you their At this point the actiVIties side.cluded most of the urban-poor surrounding the boycott need to begroups, all the rural ones, and , People, the answer isn't to emphasized.interestingly, the economically ad­boycott. COMMUNICATION with Do you realize that a major multi­vantaged group Zaire.'' I interpret Nestle is the answer. If we arc to do national corporation has come to thisthis statement as an understanding by something, then let us raise enough campus in good faith for their money to start a clinic for education the mother of her natural, healthy beliefs!?! Scientiic researchers andresources for her child. I can assure and cure. Possible we can "see" an nutritionalists have "invaded" ouryou that there are a few unique situa­impact through those means, but walls. They have not been from J.tions that show a greater percentage again, I haven't been there and I Walter Thompson! They have ex-of uninitiated breast feeding. have been immune to it all of my life.  

The Observer is·an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is enc<J,uraged. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editorial Hoard 
Editor-in-Cbief.............................,]ohn McGrath 
Executive News Editor.......................  Kdli Flint  Sports i:.aitor ..............................  Skip Dc:sjardin  
News Editor............................. David Rickabaugh  Pbotg Editor........................................Johri Macor.  
SMC Executil'e Editor........... Mary Agnc:s Care:)  .  Editori4ls Editor.......................Anthony Walton  
SMC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico  Features Editor .........................'Gregory Swiercz  

Department Managers 
Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola Production Manager...................Mic;:hael Monk Controller............................................ .]oe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom Maclennan Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley 
The Observer Monday, March 1, 1982.-page 5 
~--------------------------------------~-----------------------------­
P.O.BoxQ 
Students support boycott 
Dear Editor; After the "debate" 
between representatives of the Nestle 
corporation and spokespersons for 
INFACT. many students felt that 
neither side presented a very strong 
or convincing argument. Many 
others felt that what should have been 
the crux of the debate--corporate so­
cial responsibility in the Third 
World--was virtually ignored. Much 
confusion arose concerning that cor­
porate responsibilty because one side 
(Nestle) seemed unwilling to discuss 
the matter, and the other side 
( INFACT) seemed unable. To al­
leviate some of our own confusion 
surrounding the ambiguities of the 
debate and to make a responsible 
decision on Tuesday's boycott 
referendum, twelve students met 
with the Nestle representatives, 
Thelma Jackson and Susan Scanlan, 
we now feel that we have a better un­
derstanding of the issue. 
With this better understanding, we now realize that the issue is not whether Nestle and other multina­tional corporations have a place in Third World economies--They do! The issue is not whether the desire to maximize profits is an acceptable business motive--It is! The is~ue is 
Nestle's obligation to social respon­sibility, and after many attempts on our part to get the Nestle's representatives to address this issue,• it became apparent that Nestle has not adequately developed a sense of corporate responsibility and usually avoids discussing it. When asked her view concerning not particularly Nestle's, but any multinational cor­poration's social responsibility toward the Third World nations with­in which they operate, Ms. Scanlan, the young corporate lobbyist, ex­plained innocently, "Hey I'm just a year out of college myself. I wouldn't know how to respond to a question like that." That's unfor­tunate, for our group truly desired a 
response. 
Mrs. Jackson, the other "representative," has worked forthe poor much of her life and expressed 
genuine concern for their socia~ c_on­ditions. Despite her obvious sin­cerity, she admittedly could establish no connection between her personal altruism and any policy of the Nestle corporation. In fact, when pressed to explain Nestle's policies regarding social and corporate responsibility, Mrs. Jackson exclaimed "I'm not a 
spokesman for Nestle! I'm a consult­ant. " Unfortunately, Mrs. Jackson's personal concern for the poor is not reflected in Nestle's policy deci­sions, and as a result of that, she is a false representation of that corpora­tion. It is therefore m,isleading when a person such as herself speaks at a public debate and leads people to believe that her own concern for the poor is reflected-i;N;;tle's p~actices­in the Third World. 
One major concern of Mrs. Jack­son was that the boycott is strictly an academic issue. She feels that since the poor of the Third World neither participate in, nor even understand, the boycott compaign, then our ef­forts at Notre Dame are in no way related to solving their problems. Perhaps Mrs. Jackson doesn't under­stand the boycott. Even though the poor of the Third World are not active in the boycott campaign, they are directly affected by the changes in Nestle's policies brought about by that campaign. Thus, it is doubtful that the poor have given up eating Nestle Crunch Bars (They've probably never even seen any) yet the same poor are directly affected by 
our decision to do so. 
Mrs. Jackson also expressed the opinion that, if we as students of Notre Dame truly wanted to brin~. about social change lri under­developed countries, then we would~ 
not participate in a "negative ac­tion" such as a boycott.-Sliesug­gested instead that we would initiate positve action such as critically discussing the issues in question with other Nestle representatives. According to Mrs. Jackson, our Boycott "precludes any possibility of constructive dialogue with Nestle." She and Ms. Scanlan went on to imply that if we at Notre Dame rescinded our boycott decision, then Nestle would be much more likely to be sensitive to our views. 
Clearly, Mrs. Jackson or anyone else who expouses such a view is greatly mistaken on this critical issue. Because we are not stock hol­ders in, or corporate executives for the Nestle corporation, but are in­stead students, the only means by 
which we can dialogue with Nestle is through our boycott. The boycott does not "preclude bur chances for dialogue with Nestle; " rather, it serves as our voice in any such dialogue. By continuing the boycott, 
Notre Dame's voice, along with that of many other concerned groups, can encourage Nestle's to stop avoiding, the issues and begin recognizing its 
'corporate social responsibility to the developing nations within which it operates. 
Finally, as a further example of our current ability to dialogue with Nestle, it seems obvious that if Notre Dame students didn't have a voice in this current dialogue and if our deci­sion tomorrow wasn't of vital impor­tance to Nestle, then this past week's deluge of printed materials, lectures, dinners, and discussions for Nestle representatives would never have swamped our campus. If we were to 
rescind our boycott decision tomor­
row, then Notre Dame would be the first major institution to withdraw its support from this, the largest· non­union based boycott in the history of the United States. By doing so, Notre Dame would in effect endorse Nestle's current practices, and that corporation would continue to avoid addressing the issue of corporate responsibility. 
joeRegotti Kevin Walsh 
Bishop of Albany N.Y., Marianists , FLOC support boycott 
Dear Editor; Having been in-January 1982 report by the Zim­
formed of the recent activity on your babwe Secretary-for Health details 
campus surrounding the Nestle three major areas in which Nestle's 
Boycott, I hope you will not feel it's marketing is directly contrary to the 
an intrusion if I were to mention a code's provisions. 
few of the reasons why the Diocese Fourth, it seems that the boycott 
of Albany, N.Y. will continue its should be continued at least until the 
support of the boycott, even after a first (scheduled) evaluation of the 
visit from Dr. Thad Ja~·kson of the code's implementation scheduled by 
Nestle Company. the World Health Organization's ex-
First, there is irrefutable evidence ecutive board. 
that the Nestle Company lobbied Last, I would hope that this issue heavily behind the scenes in Geneva would be judged in the context of our against the adoption of the World church's pro-life tradition of protect-Health Organization ~·ode. l still can-ing especially the vulnerable and not reconcile these activities with powerless of the world. Within that Nestle's public statements about tradition, any benefit of the doubt in doing everything possible to imple-gray areas goes to those whose lives ment the very same code. are threatened; in this case, to the in-
Second, Nestle now stresses a dis-fants whom the code was adop tinction between the general aims of protect, and not to the companies the code and those provisions of the who have, it seems, unlimited code which limit company marketing resources to protect themselves. practices. I am still wondering why it Fr. Brian O'Shaughnessy is only now, and not before the code For the Most Reverend Howard Hub-was adopted, that Nestle claims the bard, specific provisions are universally Bishop of the Diocese of Albany, unapplicable. N.Y. 
Third, there is evidence tha-t N~stle is not working with governments to implementthe code. For example, a Dear Editor; I am pleased to know that the student body of Notre Dame University is giving serious ~·on­sideration to a current social and moral issue. I am pleased to offer my­own ret1ections and experience for your consideration. 
Many religious organizations including the Marianist Provincials and Assistant Provincials of the United States and Canada and the Justice and Peace Commission of the 
Archdiocese of Baltimore have en­dorsed the Nestle Boycott. These ac­tions were taken after due consideration of serious information about marketing practices of the Nestle Corportation, discussions with officials of that corporation, and participation in a dialogue with government officials relating to the code of breast milk substitutes by the World Health Organization. A fun­damental motivation for these en­dorsements is based on the moral imperative to protect human life and dignity of each person. This most fundamental value-the dignity of the human person-is the basis of the so­cial teaching of the Catholic Church and has been the central theme of 
Pope John Paul's speeches and writings. Over and over again he repeats the essential truths of human existence: Every person is the image of God, redeemed by Christ, created for an eternal destiny. From this es­sential dignity !lows fundamental human rights that cannot be violated by any person or any institutional structure. These rights include the right to essential goods such as nourishment, housing, education, health care and employment. We 
believe the promotion and marketing of Infant Formula by Nestle in developing countries have adversely affected the rate of infant mortality and morbidity in such areas, and such actions thereby violate the human rights of infants. 
It is in the ligt of the constant teaching of the Catholic Church, that these and other religious congrega­tions have given serious considera­tion to this issue and have taken a stand of advocacy for suffering and dying infants. 
Richard E. Ulrich  
Marianisr  Office  of  Justice  and  
Peace  Balri more, Mary/am/  

We, the members of the Notre Dame Farm Labor Organizing Com­mittee (NDFLOC), strongly believe that the evidence clearly indicates that the unethical and immoral busi­ness practices of Nestle S.A. in their marketing of infant formula has resulted in the gross exploitation of many unknowing mothers and defenseless children of the Third World. For this reason, NDFLOC firmly endorses this boycott and 
strongly urges the student body of this university o to vote in favor of the boycott of NestleS. A .. 
Despite the attempts of the Nestle 
S.A. lobby, this referendum is not meant to assert nor deny the value of corporations in modern society. This is not the issue at hand. Rather, the issue is human lives, more specifical­ly, the callous disregard for infant lives in the underdeveloped nations of the world in the name of profit maximization. 
For the Most Reverend Howard Hubbard Tb()mas Merriman 
Co-oordinatorNDFLOC 
Every entrepreneur can't be rich 
WASHINGTON--Steven Jobs has done OK for a college dropout. In tive years, the 26-year-old 
electronics nut has transformed a makeshift garage operation into a half-billion dollar empire called Apple Computer, Inc. The Califor­nian is worth an estimated $148 mil­lion and recently graced the cover of Time. 
Meanwhile, Herb Jackson, who also founded his firm in a garage, hasn't done so well. Shon 1f cash af­ter two years in the furniture design business, Jackson, also 26, is trying to liquidate his Nonh Carolina-based enterprise to avoid bankrupt.:y. 
Although they've ach,,·ved dif­ferent results, Jobs and Ja, kson have much in common. They re young, bright and idealisti~ and rc vel in self­employment. They belong to the American entrepreneurial traditon 1 hat is undergoing a renaissance--of 
!hers: were almost 600,000 new in­corporations last year, not to mention the thousands of new partnershops and individually-owned firms. Surprisingly, some say the recession has been an incentive to small­business formation. David Birch, who's associated with the Massachu­setts Institute of Technology, pointed out: " It's a matter of 
I desperation for many people. They get laid off'' or view their current jobs as uncertain. 
Tight money didn't prevent private investors from raising $1.3 billion in new venture capital funds for potentially-profitable ideas last year (the bulk was for the high­technology area). or six times the amount accumulated six years ago. 
Of course, n.:latively few new businesses succeed, let alone gain the attention of a national news magazine. For every bankruptcy, 
' stories, magazines such as Time and People often downplay the fact that new businesses take three to eight years, many thousands ofdollars and immeasurble personal sacrifice to get off the ground. As Herb Jackson dis­covered, it doesn't come easy. 
" I wanted to make something well or not do it at all," said the Uni­versity of North Carolina graduate, who never left Chapel Hill. 
Yet, like Steven Jobs, Jackson had a hunch that his idea could sell. Though the furniture market was depressed, he was buoyed with con­fidenc in his own ability to work long hours, develop contacts and take the punches. Occasional victories, such as moving into a more spacious workshop, reinforced his optimism. 
Over time. however. the recession burh.:d Jackson. Personal savings and private sources of cash, on which small-business men cchictly rely, didn't have the capital to keep my or­ganization going." 
As Jackson admits, ··I could have been a stockbroker and make a lot more money in the short run." Yet who's to say one doesn't gain from failure'? Jackson has learned lots 
from running a business at a young age, contending with employees and balance sheets, and being able to finish with his shirt on, if barely. And he declared, .. I want to get out there and do it all over again." 
Unforunately, in judging men and woment of commerce, we may as­sign too little value to the "small" achievements. We build statues to the Steven Jobses on pediments of profit statements, house sizes and magazine over stories. We tend to overlook the means of glorify the ends. 
And, in our own imaginations, 
we're beginning to rely heavily on 
ManeD Glen 
and Cody Shearer 
Here and Now 
perstar status as heroes in a fumbling economy. (Indeed, with a name like his, Jobs could be a man for the Democrats in 1984). 
But Steven Jobs hasn't asked for these laurels. Like Herb Jackson, he originally just wanted to develop a quality product and support himself in the process. 
The danger lies in the tendency to gauge our own aspirations, in­dividual and collective, in tangible te~ms. Once a success hits 'the pages ol People, the stroy seems so simple, so exact. 
Few of us live in such a dream sons. one small business specialist es­fe II short ofwhat he needed to make a one industrial sector--high 
world. But the desire to do so may
Despite a 20-year high in business timates that at least I 0 firms ae stab at a regional, perhaps more technology--to produce the Horatio 
make us forget that intermeditate 
steps are necessary and just as impor­

___...____ --~­
Hispanic Authors Forum 
an Observerspecial supplement 
Monday, March 1, 1982 -page 6 
Writers attend international assembly 
By CHRIS FRASER 
Features Writer 
A world-renowned group of Hispanic writers will visit the Notre Dame campus tomorrow and Wednesday. The reason for this onslaught of Hispanic culture is an inter­national forum entitled "Present and Future of 
Hispanic Literatures" ( Presente y futuro de las literaturas hispanicas). The guests will in­clude ten writers from Spain and twenty-two writers from eight Latin American countries. 
On both days, the writers will present 
Spanish writers at the forum 
Ten ofthe participants in the "International Forum of Hispanic Writers" hail from Spain. But it would be an error -and also gross oversimplification -on our part to view this Spanish contingent as simply that, ten Spaniards coming from a single, homogenous country. The reason for this is that they are not simply Spaniards, just as their home country is not simply Spain. It is important to take into account that a wide spectrum of Spanish geography, mentalities, and culture will be represented by their visit with us: 
Madrid, Barcelona, the regions ofAsturias in 
the north and Andalucia in the south, the Ca­
nary Islands (in the Atlantic off the coast of 
Morocco), and finally the Spaniard who no 
longer resides in the nation given him by 
birthright -the exile. All from one country, 
yes; but each bringinga different valise, travel­
ing with baggage ofhis own. 
These writers represent some of the finest .iterature to come out ofSpain in the past ·hirty years. They have been recognized at iJome and abroad by many important literary .twards (the Nadal, te Planeta, the Bibliotech Breve, the Tauras, etc.), among them they have been translated into more than thirty lan­guages, and their works are and have been the subject ofserious study. Their literary production has spanned many diferent genres: the novel, the short story, poetry, the essay, reviews, and hybrid genres o their own 
.nvention. On display in the main concourse '>f the Memorial Library will appear photographs ofall of them along with a repre­
sentative survey oftheir works: Carlos Harral ( 1928):Anos de penitencia, Los anos sin ,·xcusa, and Usurasy figuraciones. Barra! \Vas the head editor ofone ofBarcelona's most important publishing houses and he is known for his memoirs and poetry, the l(>rmer ofwhich are not a simple indul­gence in the restatement ofhistorical facts but rather a re-creative rendering ofhis past which becomes material more for a fictionalized account than for methodic recollection. 
Jose Maria Castellet ( 1926): La bora de/lector, Un cuarto de siglo de poesia espanola, andlniciacion a Ia poesia de SalvadorEspriu. Castellet is widely known 
as a fine literary critic whose keenly 
round table sessions open to the public on 
three topics: New Models in the Hispanic Novel t 10:00-11 :~0 a.m.) 
Latin American and Spanish Influence on the New Generation of Narrators (3:00-4:00 p.m.) Unity and Diversity ofHispanic Literatures ( 4:30-5:30 p.m.) 
The topics will be discussed at these times on both days allowing different writers to express their opinions. The format will also permit a question and answer period follow­ing the presentations. 
·ceptivc eye has made the comprehension and elucidation on difficult writers and texts more readily available not only for the reader at large but also for the in­terested specialist. 
Ana Maria Matute ( 1926):Primera memoria, Los soldados /loran de noche, andLa trampa. Matute has been referred to by CamiloJose Cela as having written the single most important work by a woman in Spain since the turn ofthe cen­tury. Her literary world is highly stylized, personal, poetic, and often confronts the reader, by means of the abrupt juxtaposi­tion ofa subjective reality with crude and violent acts manifested outwardly with a pessimisic view oflife. 
Jose Agustin Goytisolo ( 1928):£/ retorno, Claridad,Algosucede. This eldest of the three Goytisolo brothers (Juan and Luis being important novelists) is a fine poet who has also distinguished himselfas an anthologist ofcomtemporary Catalan poetry. 
Angel Gonzalez ( 1925): Poe mas, Palabra sobre palabra, andAspero mundo. Gonzalez is recognized as one of the finest poets in contemporary Spain and is held in high esteem by a generation of younger poets. His poetry bears the stamp ofa highly polished and personal worldview. 
Daniel Sueiro ( 1932 ): La rebusca y otras disgracias, La criba, and Laver­dadera historia del Valle de los Caidos. 
Sueiro, in the last title above, with nar­rative mastery weaves a story as revealing as it is full ofpassion: the other side of the coin ofFranco's erection ofa monument to himself, a different echo, a different meaning. 
Femando Sanchez Drago ( 1936): 
Gargorisy Habidis (Los origenes, Ciclos cristianos, Mirwrias y marginaciones). 
Sanchez Drago, a noted author and politi­cal activist, currently hosts a cultural and literary show on Spanish televison. Gar­gorisy Habidis: Una historia magica de Espana, his first book-length publication, is an ambitious quartet of"impossible 
See Spanish, page 7 
The increasing popularity of Hispanic literature -especially Latin American literature -makes this forum particularly interesting and significant. As recently as the turn of the century, Hispanic literature and Spanish literature were virtually one and the same. But in the last half-decade, the Latin Americans have built a reputation to the point where they are now producing some of the most widely acclaimed and translated literature in the world. The wide range of themes and the mystical character of Latin American literature is perhaps the main reason for its growing appeal. According to the New York Times, "American publishers increasingly view (Latin American literature) as a vast untapped resource." Reviewers around the world have praised Latin American novels for their fantasy, metaphor, and satire. 
During the 1950s and 1960s, when success­ful Latin American authors were beginning to emerge, Spanish literature, with its rich tradi­tion ofCervantes and Don Quixote, seemed to concentrate mainly on topics relating to the Spanish Civil War of 1939. Perhaps in recognition of the variety and spice in Latin American literature, modern Spaniards arc 
branching out into new themes and styles. A 
sort offriendly competition has broken out 
between writers from the two regions. 
The Hispanic forum here at Notre Dame is 
certainly a symbol ofthis competition and of 
the mutual respect that has developed among 
Hispanic authors. Similar meetings have been 
held in recent years in Mexico, Venezuela, the 
Canary Islands, and at the University of 
California (Berkeley). The forum has been 
made possible largely through the coopera­
tion and generosity ofseveral institutions: the 
Office ofCultural Affairs of Mexico, the Na­tional Institute ofFine Arts (Mexico), the In­stitute ofIbero-American Cooperation (Spain), and the University of Notre Dame. Forum organizersjose Anadon, Anturo Azuela, Russell Cluff, and Michael Doyle bring experience to the planning and coordination ofthe activities. 
This international forum will provide a 
fascinating dialogue concerning the future of 
Hispanic literature. The impressive assembly 
ofwriters and the widespread recognition of 
the quality of modern Hispanic literature 
reveal the importance ofsuch a gathering. The 
future of Hispanic literature may not be cer­
tain, but as Professor Doyle notes, "the fron­
tier is wide open." This week at Notre Dame, 
this entourage of Hispanic authors may shed 
some light on where this frontier could lead. 
Latin American 'Writers at theforutn 
Arturo Azuela(Mexico, 1938), novelist, grandson of Mexico's primary novelist ofthe 1910 Revolution; by his own admission, Ar­turo come to literaure "late," publishing his first novel,£/ tamano del infierno, in 1973; in all ofhis three novels he exposes and inves­tigates Mexico's contemporary character and recent socio-politicaal problems; the English translation of his latest novel, Manifestacion de silencios ( 1979), will be published by Notre Dame Press. 
Alfredo Bryce-Echenique (peru, 1939), short story writer and novelist; skilled ar­chitect of the interior world ofthe very young; (among other delightful tings) his works are accused ofhaving forced Vargas Llosa, Peru's other outstanding contemporary prosist, to inject humor into his works. 
Jorge Edwards (Chile, 19 3 1 ), novelist; his novel£/peso de Ia noche ( 1965) won the Atcnea award given by the Universidad de Concepcion ofChile; it was also a finalist in the contest for the Biblioteca Breve award of Spain. 
Salvador Gannendia (Venezuela, 1928), novelist and short story writer; many of his works develop themes concerning the con­temporary problem in Latin America ofac.:­
celerated urbanization: the personal trauma 
(tragedy) of millions who leave the 
countryside and gravitate to the large cities. 
Margo Glantz (Mexico), a major critic of 
Mexican literature, her book Onday 
escritura ... is a significant beginning for the 
studyoftwo principal literary trends in recent 
Mexican fiction; oflate she has also begun to 
do creative writing. 
Adriano Gonzalez Leon (Venezuela, 
19 31 ), novelist, short story writer; his novel Pais portatil ( 1969), a politically-oriented work constructed with multiple points of view and levels oflanguage, garnered him the coveted Biblioteca Breve prize ofSpain. 
Hugo Hiriart (Mexico, 1942 ), writer of humorous and satiric fiction; wile in an earlier work, Galoar ( 1972), he seeks to follow the Cervantine tradition ofexpanding-satirical­ly -upon the novel ofchivalry, in Diser­tacion sobre las telaranas ( 1980), he builds upon the more recent tradition ofshort, witty, prose established by his countrymen, Reyes, Torri, Novo and Arreola. 
See LATIN, page 7 
.,_. 

Hispanic Authors Forum Monday, March 1, 1982-page 7 
Latin Atnerican literature receives U.S. acceptance 

ByGREGORYS~RCZ 
f'l!atures Editor 
Latin American literature is finding a new market in the United States. According toJose Anadon, Associate professor and moderator of the forum, the rise of litt:rary techniques and the interest in delving into national culture have made Latin American literature gain in prominence and availability. 
In a recent artkk in The New York Times entitkd "U.S. Is Discovering Latin America's Literature." Edwin McDowdl states that an increasing number of American book publis­hers arc scrambling to receive English transla­tions of many works, due to the freshness of tht· previously untapped literary resource. 
Anadon, in an address at a Spanish collo­quium Feh. 19, said thc rise of Latin American literature is due to the authors' mastery of litt-rary techniques and the vocalization ofso­da! conditions in the authors' respective countries. 
Tht· "boom" in Latin American \Vritings is attributed to the 1960's influence ofCarlos Fuentes. His precedent-setting style and ft:ar­lcss attempts at experimenting with various modes ofliterature allowed authors the freedoms to try differing methods. In 1973, when Fuentes was at his peak, other authors began to take different paths, and a new 
generation of writers emerged. 
Changing themes permitted Latin American writers to rise in popularity. Mexican writer Arturo Azuela began to write of the dt·mographic explosion of the urban areas. Mexico City, a city of 2 million, now has a population of 16 million. With a projected size of 30 million before the turn oftbe cen­tury, the engultinent oflittle towns enriched in Mexican culture poses a social dilemma many writers sec and arc speaking out on. 
Four main factions separate the Latin American authors: the Romantics, reminis­cent ofpast litcrary styles; the Realists, stres­sors of the truth; the Cosmopolitans, the viewers of the naturalistic scenes in life; and the Exiles, the writers not concerned by nor­mal conventions. 
What could be interesting at this year's Forum may he the conglomeration of these writers speakingout about topics usually kcpt private by the differing factions. 
This spring the Notre Dame Press has 
chosen to print the English translation ofAr­
turo Azuela's latest novel Manifestacion de 
silencios. This is evidence that the Interna­
tional Forum tomorrow and Wednesday will 
be an interesting way to trace the emergence 
ofLatin American litcraturc. 

... Latin 
nmtinul!dfrom page 6 
NoeJitrik (Argentina, 192H), known primarily for his cxcclcnt literary criticism, but also for his fiction such as the collection of short stories: Fisura mayor. 
Emesto]ejia Sanchez (Nicaragua, 1923), primarily a literary critic; has contributed greatly to the scholarship surrounding his countryman, Ruben Dario, as well as others; having been exiled most of his life from his native country, he holds a doctoral degree from Spain and teaches literature at the Na­tional University of Mexico. 
Silvia Molina (Mexico, 1946 ), novelist; Asencion Tun ( 19H I ), her most recent work, is a ncatly-construt·tcd historical novel that in­
tq~rates happenings from Yucatan's IHOO's 
"War oftht· Castes" with the personal lives of 
interns (many ofthem participants or victims 
of that war) in a state-owned charitable in­.stitution that became defunct around the turn 
of the century. 
Augusto Monterroso (Guatemala, 1921 ), author ofseveral hooks ofshort, satirical skt•tt·ht·~ and stories. and one novd: Los dt•mas es silencio ( 197H ), which satirizes ­among otht·r things -literary critics of the worst order; ht· is undoubtedly om_· ofSpanish America'~ ti>rcmo~t humorists. 
jose Emilio Pacheco ( Mecixo, 19j9 ). one of hi!> country'~ 11101'>1 versatile lit nary artists: poet, novelist, short story writer, translator and journalbt; .\1or1ms /ejos ( 1967 ), his most important work of tktion to date, ti>cuscs upon tht· pnst-nnion of the Jt·ws throughout all times-the paradigm of humankind's penchant to commit violence is here taken to task in the most ingenious way. 
Femando del Paso (Mexico, 1935 ), renowned primarily for his two "long" novels: 
jose Trigo, andPalinuro de Mexico; both 
works display a serious concern for Mexican 
social problems, protrayed agianst the back­
drop of national and universal history -not 
devoid, howwevcr, of humor and poignant 
satire. 
Sergio Pitol (Mexico, 19 3 3 ), short story writer and novelist: a careful narrator whose dcn~e prose demands the active participation ofhb rcaders;E/ tanido de unaflauta, his on­ly novel to date, portrays the frustration of Mexican artists (painter, novelist, movie script writer) who find it much easier to achieve acclaim abroad than at home, while ti:cling like "fish out ofwater" in exile. 
Luis Rius (Spain/Mexico), poet and literary critic; one of the many exiled SpaniarllS who lived most oftheir lives in Mexico, contributing greatly to their new country'scultural advances ofthe past four or t1ve decades. 
Luis Rafael Sanchez (Puerto Rico, 1936), novdist, dramatist, short story writer, literary critk; his latest novel is slatt·d to appear soon in English translation under tht• title of: Macho Camacho's Beat. 
Antonio Skanneta (Chile, 1940), novdist. writer ofshort stories and literary· criticism concerning tht· most recent Spani'sh American authors; .'Vo paso nada ( 19HO ). chronicles the problems ofan t:xilcd Chilean famlly living in Germany -victims of the coup d' ctat that took Allende's life. 
Perspectives ,backgrounds unite Spanish authors 
ByTARIBROWN 
Features Writer 
L
iterature is the medium by which people attempt to communicate an attitude or an emotion through the written word. As much as the genres differ, the people who use them vary as welL Perspectives differ according to ex­perience and background. Very often, however, a group ofauthors arc drawn togeth­er by a specific historical or sociological event that leaves its imprint upon each of them. Such is the case with the authors from Spain, involved in the International Forum of Hispanic Writers. 
Shortly after the end ofthe Spanish Civil War, numerous novels appeared. taking up the themes ofdevastation and tragedy that resulted from the nation's internal strife. The authors dealt with exile from their homeland in a physical sense, but more commonly, with the inner exile that set Spaniard against Spaniard. Authors wcre obsessed with writing the "exile" novel as if to exorcise the War from themselves. 
In The Spanish Civil War, Hugh Thoms wrote, "Spcctors caused the war and after­ward, ghosts dominated the country." Those that had lived through it felt the abiding presence of the ideological ghosts that survived the establishment of Franco's reign. When about 1970 a Spanish literary revival occurred, those ghosts influenced even the writers who were a generation removed from the actual experience. 
The authors that emerged in the seventies 
, , ,Spanish 
continuedfrom pa11,e 6 
definition" that tries to capture the locura (madness), passion, identity, grace and myriad problems ofall ofSpain, one nation composed of many Spains. 
JJ. Armas Marcelo ( 1946 ):Estado t de coma, Calima and Guia secreta de Canarias. Recipient of the Pn:mio Galdos in 1975, Armas Marcelo immerses the reader in a world both condradictory and circular, a world in which episodes arc painted in a language that is baroque and burlesque, tragic and sarcastic. 
Jose Maria Vaz de Soto ( 19 3H ): Dialogos de anochecer, El precursor, and El infiernoy Ia brisa. Vaz de Soto is Profes­sor ofLiterature at tht· Institute of.\11 artinez .\1ontancs in Seville. A master ofcomposi­tion in colloquial voices, in the third novel 
retained the last strains of the Civil War theme. Their temporal perspective was becoming more removed from the actual event. The war that had been their parents' ex­perience became more dream-like through the distance. The brutal reality lost its con­crete materialism. Though it no longer possessed the color and impact that it had originally contained, the Civil War theme remained the dominant one in that dct·adc's literature. 
The reasons for the continued t·mphasis on the effects of the war is explained hy Ana Maria Matute. She believes that these authors arc a frustrated generation hy mandate. The tragic regent•ration of the devastation of the war was caused by the parents because by making the war, they had cut short their children's formative years. As tht· children passed to adulthood, it seems as though they were able to put the war behind tht·m. Unfor­tunately, they frustrated themselves by adopt­ing the Civil War atmosphere, thus continuing the regenerative cyck. 
The novels created by this frustrated generation maintained the Civil War theme, yet tended toward the imaginative or "fantastic." Their perspective took on a sub-' jcctivc stance because of the familial in­fluence on the authors. The move away from the realistic war accounts to the "fantastic" literature suggests that perhaps the theme is beginning to run dry. 
The question for present-day Spanish authors is what rclevann· the Civil War theme has for today, and how it applies to the present reality. The object ofthe forum is to address the present and future ofllispanic literature and discover where it will go thematically. 
mentioned above he explort·s the world of a group ofadolescents who arc enrolled in a religious boarding school, delving not only into the education they receive pt•r se (the repression and the injustices) hut also into Spain's developmt·nt during the post­Civil War year~. 
Jose Esteban: Edition otjose Bergamin: El cohetey Ia estre/lay La cabeza a pajaros. This fine young critk makes Her­gamin's aphorisms -acute and conC'cp­tual plays on words, a literature produced by a rct1ned intellect -ring t·vcr mort· tru­ly for the eyes of today's reader. Through his own effort and understanding, Esteban makes it easit'r for U!'> to grasp tht· true meaning ofwor~s whose nwssagc and in­tention might otherwise have cscapt·tlus. 
~~----------~--­
The Observer -Paid Advertisement Monday, March 1, 1982-page 8 

The students of Notre Dame will be asked to vote tomorrow on the question of whether to boycott Nestle products. Those who advocate the boycott do so on the basis that they believe they cannot prove that Nestle is following the W~rld Health Organization Code for the Marketing of Infant Formula in developing countries. Nestle says that it is implementing the Code, and has testified before the U.S. Congress pledging its support for the Code. Nestle, through its marketing people, is implementing policies which carry out the Code process in every developing country without a national code. The company follows all national codes already 
\.~> 
enacted.
"~' 
'"' 
I 
.. ti,' 
~-·. ' 
. ~ 
No other major manufacturer of infant formula has announced such support for the Code and Nestle does not expect its competition to live by the same rules Nestle applies to itself. 
One section of the Code ( 11.4) provides for any individual with evidence of a grievance under the' Code to report that evidence to the national health ministry involved and the formula manufacturer for investigation and correction. There have been a few allegations of grievances against Nestle under the Code 
each has been thoroughly investigated and found to be without foundation. The small number of grievances 
(fewer than 50 since the adoption of the Code nine months ago) clearly shows company policy does not permit 
violation of the Code. Nestle markets infant formula in developing nations with total population of more than 
one billion people ifNestle w~re at odds with the aim and principles of the Code, there would be at least hundreds of grievances lodged. 
Nestle does not advertise to mothers, does not give them samples of infant formula, does not carry out retail marketing schemes and does not promote the product to them in any way. 
We believe that simple fairness demands that even a corporation be considered to be telling the truth until there is strong evidence to the contrary. We don't believe such evidence exists in the case ofNestle and certainly none has been brought before us or the students of Notre Dame. Nestle has gone a long way to ensure that it is the most ethical marketer of :infant formula in the world and that it should be congratulated for that effort, not punished. We believe those who wish to bring harm to our company, its employees and their families have the obligation to establish some reason for doing so. 
A great University likeNotre Dame cannot be less than fair. 

Vote NO to the Nestle Resolution 
··.. 
The Nestle Cc,ordination Center for Nutrition Suite 310, 1120ConnectiClltAvenue,N.W. Washington, D. C. 20036 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Monday, March 1, 1982 -page 9 
Sports Brie s 
::~l~l'~.-~l~l~l<~'(;J~h~~:.~:r~t'~~~r;a~n~d~l~v:•.:_:45~.~~·~=,<~-~~it~t~~~tl~l~l:.£~'~~·s~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
1 
CCHA playofftickets arc on sale today at the Gate I 0 box oflkc of the ACC. The games, with Notn: Dame playing hoM to Mich· 
...Women 
igan, will he played Friday and Saturday night, Marh S-6, and face-off 
time will be 7:30 p.m. Student season ticket holders will have first 
continued/rom page 12 
priority in pun.:hasing playofftickets. Students who present the face of their st~ason coupon book with their ID card today before 5 p.m., at Gate I0 of tht.• ACC, will be able to purchase tickets in Section 8. 
DePaul's season-scoring leader, All other Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students may purchase playof 
Barb Atsaves, then sewed up the tickets at the same time and place. There is a limit of one student 
Lady Demon victory with a pair of ticket per game, for personal usc, and at the student price of 53. 
free throws with four seconds left. Additional tickets may be purchased for 54. ID must be prcsennted 
"It's a shame we let mistakes at the time of purchase, and one student may present no more than 
down the stretch kill us," DiStanislao four I D's. -The Observer 
said, "because we played very hard 
against a very good team. This is a 
disappointment because we told the 
kids that if they did the things theyWayne State avenged a I4-13loss to the Irish three weeks 
were supposed to do, we'd win. ago with a l5·I2 fencing win over Notre Dame Friday, snapping 6 
Well, they did, but we didn't. 
"There were a lot of positive dual meet season with wins over Illinois and Wisconsin to finish this 
p.m. the Irish's 23-meet winning streak. The Irish closed out their 
things about this game," she added. part of the season at 20-1. The Notre dame women did not fare as 
"Their scoring was very even, and well, losing 15-I to Wayne State, while Ising to lemson as well. The 
no one shot a real great percentage. women beat Wisconsin, however:-The Observer 
Unfortunately, the most overriding negative thing was we lost." 
The Fellowship ofChristian Athletes is 
'...the most overriding 
sponsoring an evening with Athleti Director Gene Corrigan. The 
presentation will be held in Walsh Hall basement at 8:30 p.m. on 
negative thing
Wednesday, March 3. FCA promotes hristian fellowship among ath­
letes and coaches in hope that this will be shared with the larger 
community.-The Observer 
was we lost. ' 
Dougherty and Bates had I 0 
The Saint Mary's basketball team t1nishcd their 
points each to reinforce Kaiser's 16­st.·ason by splitting a pair o"f games this weekend in the District 
point effort. Feiercisel, Robin!ion Tournament hclll at Goshen. Trish Nolan, Gret t chen Meyer, each 
and Atsaves all had 14 for DePaul. with 16 points, kd the Belles past Grace College, 77-63, on Friday 
Normally a telling statistic, bench night Following Nolan and Meyer in scoring were Ann Armstrong 
production said very link about this and Mary Pat Sttlington who chipped in 12 apiece. A balanced 
game. Irish subs outscored Lady st.·oring attad. Jlong with imressive defense, aided the Belles in the 
Demon subs 20-2, but ir wasn't otme~t. Saturday, the tables turned as Saint Mary's was defcatd by 
enough to counteract the four Puruue·Calumct. ';4-4'). The Belles had trouble with a strong press. 
DePaul starters in double figures. ami committed many turnovt.·rs en route to the llcti:at. Tlu: Belles 
"We've had a haru time getting a wnt.· led hr AII·District guard Ann Armstrong who neueu 14. She 
complete ganlt"," DiStanislao said. wa~ tiJIIowt.·d lw Lisa Schirz and .\'leyer with 12 each. -The Obsen,er 
"Our last two games, we've hall trouble at one end ofthe tloor or the other. T6day, we didn't get what we needed out ofour guards." 
The Irish shot well, hitting S5 per­cent oftheir shots, 67 percent in the first half. DiStanislao cited that as one reason her club wa~ otJt-' rebounded 33-20. Feicreisd and Robinson each pulled down I 0 boards for the Lady Demons. 
"DePaul is a very difficult team," 
DiStanislao said. "They're all 
talented individuals with distinct 
traits: playing Robinson took a lot of 
work on Carrie's part; Feleriesel's a 
strong, physical player, and defend· 
ing her took a lot out of Mary Beth 
(Schueth); Douglas is a jumping 
jack. Our forwards had their hands 
full, and they were still two out of 
our three double-figure scorers. 
"I just hope they remember what this feels like," she added. "I hope our freshmen remember what this feels like in the next couple years. I hope they remember what this feels like next week." 
.IRISH ITEMS -Saturday's loss was Notre Dame's fourth straight, and the two losses this week ended an eight-game Irish winning streak in the ACC ... Kaiser's points came on 7-of-12 shooting from the floor, and 2-of-l from the charity stripe. One of her five misses was blocked by Robinson Iatt.· in the game, one of five shots blocked by DePaul's other co-captain ... Robinson, by the way, is just one of three 6-4 girls on the Lady Dl·mon roster ... A reunion of sort1o rook plal·c Saturday. A long tinH· friend and teammate of Notre Dame·~ jenny Klaukc was in the ACC but for the 11rst time in her career, she wure a different unil(lrm. Mary Lou O'Brien is a 6-0 freshman I(Jrward out of Glenview. III., who 
played with Klauke at Marillac High School. A head-to-head competition between the two never materialized, however. O'Brien played four minutes during Robin­son's absence, hitting her only field goal auempt and pulling down a rebound, while Klauke never got In­to the game. 

Sunday's Results 
DePaul81, Notre Dame 69 
DePaul(81) 
M FG-A FT-A R F P 
Cummtngs 39 11-17 6-6 14 2 28 Randolph 33 4-8 3-4 2 3 11 Dowmng 18 5-7 0-0 2 3 10 McMtllan 11 2·3 0-0 1 4 4 Paherson 31 2·7 0-2 4 3 4 McCoy 3 0-0 2-2 0 0 2 Allen 1 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 Corbtn 28 3-4 2·2 4 2 8 Burkholder 1 0-0 0·0 0 0 0 Dillard 35 4-7 6·7 3 0 14 
200 31-54 19-23 30 17 81 
FG Pet. .574. FT Pet. -.826. Team ' rebounds • 0. Turnovers • 9. Asststs -11 ­Cumm•ngs. Corbtn. Otflard (3). Techmeafs ­Randolph ( 1) 
Notre Dame (69) 
M FG-A FT-A R F P Varner 39 7-9 2-2 6 5 16 Spencer 24 2-5 2·4 1 1 6 Andree 31 4-7 2·3 3 4 10 MitChell 40 1·4 2·2 2 3 4 Paxson 40 8·21 1·1 4 4 23 DuH 3 0-2 0·0 0 1 0 Rowan 5 0·0 0·0 0 0 0 Rucker 18 5·8 0-0 7 3 1 0 
0 0·0 0·0 0 0 0 
200 27-56 15-18 23 21 69 
FG Pet 482 FT Pet ..833 Team 
rebounds · 1 Turnovers · 13 Asststs • 7 -
Milehell (3) Teehn1cals. none. 
Hafft1me · DePaul 36. Notre Dame 30 Oftt· c1als · Richard We1ler (B1g Ten). Darwm Brown (B1g Ten). Enc Harmon (Btg Ten). A· 11.345 
The Observer Will accept classrlreds Mon­day through Frtday. 10 a.m to 4 30 p.m However. classifteds to appear tn the next 1ssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to tnsertlon. All classtfreds must be prepatd, 
either tn person or through the marl.
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
OVERSEAS JOBS -Summer/year round Europe. S A mer., Australia. As1a All fields $500·$1200 monthly S•ghtsee· 1ng. Free .nto. Wnle IJC, BBox 52·1N4, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. 
II you m•ssedANN BOUAJAILY. you're a tool. but don't be a complete id1ot... see PAT ANDREWS Thu,..day. March 4. at 8 
p.m. 1n SMC"I Litlle Theatre. Moreau Hall. Get a Clue and BE THERE 
DO YOU NEED A GOOD HAIRCUT? GUYS $-4. GIRLS $6 CALL MICHOLE AT 7951 
MORRISON SCHWARTZER MICROWAVE ROCK .THE ENERGY WILL HIT YOU I 
DISCUSS HOW CAREERS, MARRIAGE 
AND FAMILY CAN BE COMBINED . 
ATTEND TWO CAREER FAMILIES.· 
THURSDAY AT 6·30 IN THE STUDENT 
AFFAIRS CONFERENCE ROOM. LE 
MANS HALL. SMC 
NEWS FLASH: THERE /S SOMETHING GOOD IN FORT WAYNE, IN ... MOM ER· TELT'S LASAGNA/II GET PSYCHED. REAL FOOD AND DRINK HERE WE COME! 
\ LOST/FOUND \ 
LOST MICroeconomics book by Waller NICholson. 1n room 121 O'Shag on Fnday. 2/12 Please call M•ke at 8649 it book is found 
FOUND $40.00 on Fnday Feb 12 Call 3828 to cla1m. 
lost a be•ge and blue ski 1ackel With red stnpes •n the south d.n.ng hall Call 8219 for reward 
LOST A Silver wnst watch with a blue face and a broken watchband G1ves date •n both English and SpaniSh Lost on 2123 around noon near or •ns•de O"Shag Please call Jeff 176<1 
LOST BLUE LOOSLEAF FOLDER IN GALVIN AUDITORIUM ON 2f23 AFTER SAHLINS LECTURE CONTAINED NOTEBOOK AND PHOTO NEG· GA TIVES CALL BOB AT 3260 MATERIAL IS IMPORTANT 
FOUND A Gold Chatn. With Medal be· tween D•llon and the Dining Hall Call1821 
Ken Lost: pair ~i" royal..blue mittens ~~d~ out 
of a nylon type malenal. They were a g•ft 
It you have any InformatiOn please call 
K1m at2966. 
LOST, A~~~/r~d ;e~~rs;ble d~~~ v~~l. green warm·up pants, and a pair of gloves. lost at ACC on 2125. It found, please call Jeff 1~56. 
~~~t· MICROECONOMICS by w~ii~r Ni~~ 
holson:rn O'shag on Feb. 12. Iffound, call M1ke at x8649. This poor book needs 11s home. 
Lost 1 box of 8 x 10 mch Kodak color film 1n the phone booth of the bus sheller Please return and make a photographer sm11e aga•n. Contact Bob al234·2981. 
FOR RENT 
FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES AVAILABLE FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR CALL234·9364 
TWO GOOD SIX BEDROOM HOUS T ES. SIDE BY SIDE. 321. 325 N. TAYLOR 272·2720. 
FURNISHED HOMES GOOD AREA WALK TO ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YR 277 3604 
I . WANTED . 
Need nde 10 Houston Texas. for spnng break. If you are headed m !hal d1rec11on· please call T1mo al1782 
TYPING 28 years as a secretary. Excel· lent tYPISt-retired. $1.00 per page Call PhylliS 259·2501 
Desperately need a nde for two people to Northern Jersey. nght off Route 80 Will share the usual Call M1ke at 1181 
RIDE NEEDED to Dallas.TX or Shreveport.LA Please call289·8955 
ARE YOU PLANNING TO LIVE IN LUS· CIOUS. TROPICAL TANT\LIZING SOUTH BEND THIS SUMMER? I M LOOKING FOR ONE FEMALE ROOMMATE TO SHARE A CAMPUS VIEW APT FROM JUNE TO AUG CALL PATTI AT 283·8472 RENT IS ONLY $145AMONTH 
NEED A RIDE TO JACKSON. MISSIS· SIPPI FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL 
A.M. P. at 7933. 
DESPERATELY need nde to North Jar· sey/NYC area for break· anywhere on Rt 80 1n NJ. Will share usual. Dan at8200. 
11.ELP!I THREE PALE-FACED FEMALES WILL BE ON THE WARPATH IF THEY DDONT GET A RIDE TO TAMPA, FLORIDA FOR BREAK THEYLL SHARE DRIVING AND EXPENSES, SO CALL THEM AT 3351 IF YOU HAVE ROOM IN YOUR WAGON !I 
R•ders needed to MIAMI·FT LAUOERDALE area tor spnng break Call Vinny 3043. or Oenms 1974 
I NEED RIDES FOR 3 PEOPLE AS CLOSE TO MAINE AS POSSIBLE FOR BREAK MARK 3403 
HELP! Need nde to N. VIRGIN lAID C. area tor break. Call J•m 1763. 
PROFESSOR NEEDS STUDENT 
PROGRAMMER EXPERT IN BASIC 
WITH KNOWLEDGE OF CPM OPE RAT· lNG SYSTEMS FOR MINIS WRITE PO BOX 77. ND WITH BACK· GROUND AND REFERENCE. 
Two tun·lov1ng gals need nde to PHILLY· area tor break. Please don·tleave these g~rls stranded 1n South Bend! We can leave possibly as early as Wednesday al· ternoon (the 1Oth) We will share dnv1ng. expenses and prov1de munch1es! · Please call Kw1ck1 at 3773 
BOSTON·Need nders leavmg Wed/10th· G•b·t628 
..... .. ............................ 
FOR SALE 
HAVE YOUR OWN PERSONALIZED BUMPERSTICKERI Any message $2.00 K. G1ll. 521 Geran1um Pl.. Oxnard CA93030 
FOR SALE: GOOD SONY WALKMAN GREAT BUY. CALL239·7494. 
PERSONALS 
MORRISON SCHWARTZER AND THE TOXIC WASTES. MICROWAVE ROCK 
PAT ANDREWS IS COMING.. PAT ANDREWS /S COMING ... PAT ANDREWS /S COMING to Saint Marys Little Theatre 1n Moreau Hall. March 4 alB pm 
Look•ng lor a truly portable. yet powerful personal computer? See The Osborne 1. 64K. dual lOOK diSk dnves, plus $1400 worth ol sohware. all lor $1795 FOUR· WAY COMPUTER PRODUCTS. (Across from North Village Mall). 277·7720 
Mary D. 
Mary D. 
Mary D. 
The Mary D•Stanislao Show, tonight at 
6:05 on WSND·Am 64 
....Boston Boston Boston.... Need nde for two 10 Boston or there· abouts for spnng break. Call Colleen at 4 t ·4424 or Jeb at 8649. 
JEFF JEFFERS FOR UGLY MOON ON CAMPUS 
/Jeff · Moon Jeffers tor UMOC -ugly moon on campus. 
Help!I Our nde tell through and we may be stuck on the M•dwesl for break! It you have room tor two tun-1ov1ng sun-worshtpp1ng g~rls headed tor Tampa, Flonda. please call 3351 We II share dnv•ng and ex· penses 
Jacques le Brun (Number 3) Bon Ann1ver· satre man chen! Je t atme. TOUJOurs. Momque. 
Log Denise Keller-to meet you today. to see you any mghHhal"s what I would hke. Mr? 
ATTENTION SKIERS I !I Two spots have lUSt open ned up on the S. U Spnng Break Sk1 Tnp Anyone mteresled. should con· tact the S U. T1x Off1ce Immediately ThiS IS ftrst come ftrst serve basts 
CARROT HEAD, u r such a LIGHT-WEIGHT 4A 
We're back Ouinnt 
. o.k qu1ck recap here the frog 
walked Into the bank. tned to make a 
depos11 to the Teller who sent h1m to 
F1ogonn• behind the b1g desk (because !he· Teller can I accept depos1ts trom frogs) .. o.k.. anyway. so F1ogonm works for THE COUSIN. mob leader on east s•de. and has set up a front for drop offs at th1s bank o.k so he thinks th1s trag 1s THE COUSIN s bagman and sends h1m to Billy the Worm at the p1er . so the trag hops out ot the bank. 
, YSG 
NFS .KSALOT, YOUR TEAMMATES 
The great books-the great m1nds. Meet faculty and students ot the Program ot Liberal Stud1es. Mon March 1. 6.45 p.m . Grace P11 
15 days unt1l Surf. Sand and er, ah. er· what else beg1ns With S? Ryan 
ToMM Call me when your bOyfnend d1es. Jack 
Anenlion ND BAND Members Announc· 1ng the "IDENTIY SUZI ConteS1 F~rst Pnze. An eventng w1th Suz1 Second Pnze. 2 eveninngs w1th Suz• Clues Will be g1ven each day this week FIRST CLUE. SUZIIS a perCUSSIOniSt 
When the truth •s found to be has. You know lhe JOY w1thm you d1es Don I you want somebody to love? Don t you need somebody to love? Wouldn t you love somebody to love? You better f•nd somebody to love!I 
TOME FROMME 
WHITE/HAYES/MADDEN/SHINN WHITE/HAYESfMADDENiSHINN INVOLVEMENT FOR the CLASS ot "85 VOTE MARCH2 WHITE/HAYES/MADDEN/SHINN 
Dear JIM THE BOXER,HAPPY 7TH AN· NIVERSARY I HAD A GREAT WEEKEND WITH YOU YOU RE THE BEST LOVE AND KISSES. YOUR TED· DY BERTA 
"TWO CAREER FAMILIES, .. A PANEL DISCUSSION WITH FOUR COUPLES, WITH BRIEF PRESENTATIONS, DIS­CUSSIONS AND QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS ABOUT LIFESTYLES AND HOW CAREERS, MARRIAGE AND FAMILY CAN BE COMBINED, WILL BE THURSDAY AT 6:30P.M. tN THE STU· DENT AFFAIRS CONFERENCE ROOM, LE MANS HALL. SMC. 
WATCH KAREN MIEDLAR GIEUVER THE MOST INTERESTING SENIOR COMPREHENSIVE IN CHEMISTRY YOU VE EVER SEEN THURSOAY AT 
12.15 PM IN THE SAINT MARY'S SCIENCE HALL III SHES ' THE COOLEST CHEMIST AROUND!!!. 
THE SILENCE SPEAKS/ A LANGUAGE FOR TWO/ PUNCTUATED WITH CARESS/ SOULS AND MINDS "AND DESTINIES/ CROSSED FOREVER IN TIME/ STRENGHTH AND FREEDOM/ IN BOUNDLESS PLENTYI SOULS THAT CANNOT BE CONTAINED./15.5 15.515.515.515.515 515.515 515.5/ 
S1gn up this week tor the PHILADELPHIA CLUB BUS For .ntorma11on call. Chuck x8702 Kerry x6996 
DAVE R THE WOMEN OF THE WORLD WANT YOUR BODY (AS USUAL) 
LYONS HALL FOOD SALES DELIVERS 
THE FINEST tiN FRESH, THICK CRUST 
PIZZA TO ANY PLACE ON SOUTH 
OUAD FOR THE NOMINAL DELIVERY 
CHARGE OF 25 CENTS/ CALL 1853 
SUN· THURS FROM 9:30 TO 11/ p.s. 
Delivery pnce InCludes serv1ces of one 
LUSCIOUS LYONS DELIVERY LADY/ 
DAVE -BELIEVE IT OR NOT, I DRAINED THE ENTIRE ALCOHOL SUPPLY ALL BY MYSELF (hiccup, h1c· cup. hiccup) P.S. MY REFRIGERATOR /S ALREADY DEFROSTED ... (however .t YOU were to purchase some oxcesses. perhaps t could recons•derl) 
The /ush·us fa male 
JMW. To squeak or not to squeak. that 1s the ques11on What IS your answer? Love, 
CRIME AWARENESS IS ESSENTIAL FOR PREVENTION 
WATCH FOR INSPECTOR BOB 
SENIORS -MICHIGAN B·BALL TIX FOR March 7 GAME AT SILVERDOME T1x available I sl floor LaFortune, Wed· neSday , March 3 7.30·8.30. $&-Lower Level 
DOES THE GOD KNOW HOW TO PROD? 
MARY! HAPPY NATIONAL PIG DAY II 
COL HAPPY 2lsl TO OUR GREAT vAR· SITY FENCER! THE FOURTH FLOOR" 
An Tostsl Frame Slulfing Contes/1 
...Thlt'e rlghlt We're out to brellk the The GUiness Book ot World Records lr.,e etullng record (23). We're going toIllthe ,..,.. ol SIMON wa. the c.tc-
P.S. n.Ia, Ike, lor re•. 

-----------------·----­
· The Observer -Sports Monday, March 1, 1982-page 10 
• • .DePaul 

Tbe Irish push one of their ten goals past Western .Wichigan's goalie in their victory OTl Saturday Tlight. The win allows Notre Dame to host thefirst round ofthe CCHA playoffs which will begiTl this weeken.d. (Photo byjohTl Macor) 
" Meet Your Major Schedule" Monday, March 1 
continuedfrom page 12 
seasons. And it's on to games· against Northern Iowa, Dayton and Michi­gan tor the Irish, where they'll to for­get past embarassments as well. 
"Notre Dame is like we were," said Cummings. "They're young, but they're coming." 
IRISH ITEMS -Cummings also had high praise for Phelps, saying: "They always talk about the students here being a sixth man. But I think Digger is a seventh man. He's one of the best coaches in the country. Watching him is like watching an artist at work."_ . . DePaul has scheduled an exhibition match against Athletes in Action next weekend in an effort to t111 the two-
week layoff they face before the NCAA Tournament . . .\1eyer says the worst part about losing early in the NCAA's b the money: "All I could think of was that I'd cost the University about S200,000. We're a Catholic school. and those priests like the money. They've got it spent before we get it. . _. Notre Dame 
turned the ball over 13 times. 
...Hockey 
Math Teacher's Education Program of Liberal 
Studies History 
DAYTONA BEACH 
SPRING BREAK 
COMETONEW HAMPSHIRE! Camp Counselor positions . 
availab1e 
OutstandingSports Camps: CampWinaukeefor Boys Camp Robindel for Girls 
(1 mile apart, 2 hours froin Boston) Specialists needed ina in all areas All transportation paid. June 21-Aug. 21 
Personal Interview at LaFortune Student 10am-7pm Monday, March 1 Center Sign up at Placement Office or j:ust stop qy. 
FORT lAUDERDALE 
SPRING BREAK 
: e dott/7 nights ~edging ot the b8outiiJI mv.a Hotel loctng the ocean in the heaft I;;A Loudlldalel 
. ' Oceonflont Hotel ()phonal Portv Bus in morrv 01e01 Poolslde -'Come party 
~SActMtiel 
Alltaaes 
$139 
JOHN HREBEC 
.......: 213-1216 HHrs: 5:30-7:oo,. ,
u:oo-u:oo,. 
Room 102 O'Shag.4:30 PM Room 219 O'Shag.4:30 PM 
Grace Hall Pit 6:45 PM Room 331 O'Shao.7:00 PM 
continuedfrom page 12 
vantage in the first period. 
Even though the Irish no.tched their twentieth victory of the year, the first time an Irish team had done so since the 1976-77 season, Smith was not entirely pleased with the team's play. "Our poor play in our defensive zone really concerns me as we get ready to head into the play­offs," Smith remarked. "Not giving up goals is very important in the 
play-offs." 
The entire parents' week-end series was marked by very physical play from both teams which resulted in several injuries. Bronco defen­seman Glenn Johannesen was taken out in Saturday's contest with a probable separated right shoulder after crashing into the Notre Dame end boards. By the end of the game, Notre Dame was down to just four defenseman after Joe Bowie reinjured his hand and Jim Brown was forced to leave the game after blocking a Western Michigan scoring attempt. Both players should be ready to play by the week­end. 
A minor cut to Rothstein Saturday night brought to six the number of players nursing wounds in time to open the play-offs. Poulin is still questionable for next week-end's series with Michigan, but all the other injured plyers should be ready to play by then. A specially designed 
'face mask is being built for Deasey which should enable him to play despite his broken jaw. 
The icers will need a healthy line­up to combat the defensive Wol­
urgesallstudents topartt-ctpate t-n tomorrow's election 
Glenmary Missioners Room# 2 Box 46404 Cincinnati, Ohio 45246 
verine club, which was barely the Western Collegiate Hockey As­ousted out of fourth place by the sociation play-offs in 1977, the Irish Irish. "They haven't been scoring a won the first game of the series 5-1, lot ofgoals, but they have some guys but were humiliated in the second who are always a threat," Smith com-game 9-2, thereby losing the series mented on his first round opponent. on total goals. "The closeness of the race shows Student tickets for the first series what a tough series this is going to of the play-offs went on sale today at be." the Gate lO ticket windows of the 
The Irish will be looking to erase ACC. Ti<.:kets are three dollars and memories of the last play-off series will continue to be sold each day un­the team hosted. In the first round of til this week. 
Constable sets neUJ 
schoolhighju~pn1ark 
ByEARLRIX 
Sports Writer 
Chuck Constable, a freshman from North Babylon, New York, broke Ed Broderick's 14-year old Notre Dame record when he high jumped 6-10 1/2 to place sixth in 11­lini Classic in Champaign, Ill. Satur­day. 
"I'm really happy to see Chuck qualify for the IC4A's," said Irish sprint coach Ed Kelly. "He's worked conscientiously and he's going to jump a lot higher than that," added Kelly. 
Greg Bell finished third in the long jump with a leap of 24-3. It is the second week in a row that Bell has jumped over 24 feet. "Its good to see Greg jump so consistently well,"said Kelly. "If he gets a good week of practice, he'll have a good 
shot at breaking the school record 
next weekend." The record in the 
long jump is 24-4 1/2. 
The Irish had several other good 
performances in the meet, though 
no team scores were kept. The mile 
relay team of Eady, VanEyken, 
Ribera, and Kania finished sixth with 
a time of 3:1 7. 5 -only one second 
off the school record. 
Coming off a three-week layoff 
due to injury. freshman Tim Cannon 
ran a 4:11.8 mile, which was good 
for eighth place. Sophomore Andr 
Dillon plau.d eighth with a fine 8:52 
two-mile. Senior John McCloughan 
placed sewnth in the high hurdles. 
Some good performances that did 
not place in the meet wereJim Tyler 
and Rick Rogers with times of 1 :5 3.8 
and 1:54.0 respectively in the half­
mile, Tony Hatherly's 2:13 1000­
yard effort, and Tim Macauley's 4:14 
~ 
IRocco's H;~ling1 
i 5 
1531 N. Michigan St.,l South Bend Phone-233-4957 
.......,........., .......~,,.,.......,,.,.,..,,
•
> 
IWIOM DIWXI ... 
o e dafl/7 n~gr~rs ~U~Ut­~cu IOdgng ot the WNIWd 1M on the beOct'l near the piMt 
0 ac.antlcnl HoM! tl Qplonal Portv Bus In 
rroar'¥01e01 0 Wllccrne Portv 0 Selab Ac:tMtlel 
0 Mto.­
0 i:*o)of Ward OptiOn 
Only $119 
D4YrONA ICOHOM'I ... ' 8 do{t/7 Nghl\ ot the Otpiomot Beach Motel . Oceanfront lOdging (; Optional Portv llul '" mQnV0180S 
~Portv :_: ~~ AciMtlel 
' All ro.s 
. : Diwwl WOIId Oplicn 
On $99 


--------------------~----~-------~--~­
---------~--~1-­
Ihe~r==================================~==== 
~~~~~-~=============================M=o=n=d=ay='=M=a=rc=h==1,=1=9=8=2===pa=g=e=l=l 
UNION RECORD STORE HAVE FOR ME?
.-,
~ 
I ' CHEAPER PRICES PRICES··· Save 24-32% off list prices! ' MOST CURRENT SINGLES-$6.50 (compare at $8.99 list). 
1 : / Cut-outs ... $2.98 to $5.98 -------------­CONVENIENCE...The NDSU Record Store is located on the Main floor of LaFortune and is open· 10-4 PLUS-ordered albums take l week only! 
GREAT SELECTION ... Springsteen, Fogelberg, Moody Blues, Stevie Nicks, Cristopher Cross, Pat Benatar, Journey, and many more. 
ALSO ... : ecorded and blank tapes available. 
SO ... for CHEAP.ER PRICES, MORE CONVENIENCE, and a GREAT SELECTION 
• 'I
stop by the S.U. Record Store todaY.!! 
' 
Michael Molinelli 

/,.JOW-AIIIC> FORLE:NT 'J: IJJ\6 HOPIN4 Ak5f TD fil!LL 13EI/II-J/) ON M'( itJOIV\ 

r---------------~ 
I KNW, 8IfTSOCIAL 50 IJJHY11/eU, I'Ve BEEN 
5ECIJR17Y Bf3NCFIT5 fi.KNTHe GO"!'
TRYING 70 6bT 8lJTHe'S HIM7lJ&NROILAT ONL.Y A 
AR& BEING C1JT. IF P089 HEHAve 
He's NOT eNRDUEO 50Me7HING eotLEfjt, Ht fJQofr seNIOR, /r'KJM. 
7Hf CtJMMtJNITY HIGH 5CHOOl. 
BY WIY, He WON'T AGAIN5T QUALIFY FOR AIO CiJUE6e'i' I I 




ACROSS 24 -out 41 -out 14 Happy Ragout and (make do) (demolish) expressions mulligan 25 Did under· 42 Sea birds 16 Like a 
6 Sour cover work 43 Scheme cereal 11 Unsteady 26 Attachment 44 Fitting 17 "-out of 13 Works by to a bill 45 Betel palm the money" 
engraver 27 What 46 Effort 22 Think out Albrecht hysterics 47 Sociable loud 15 Horner's need chap 23 Aviator boast 29 Missile 50 Set apart 25 Swiped 
18 French sites solemnly 26 Strict tapestry 30 German city 51 Sugar 28 Tarry town 31 Half of a present 29 Woodwinds, 
19 Bronchi Samoan 
The Daily Crossword 
in milk for short bubblings seaport 52 Ate in 31 Apex 20 Wine, in 32 Practical style 32 Camera Caen 34 Handy Andy 53 Get rid support 21 Do·lt·your· 38 Slyly of waste 33 WhatTiny self items scornful 
Tim did in 22 Chose 39 Made DOWN 
the tulip 23 -Alto, resilient Went into bed Calif. 40 Tokyo, once action 34 Vigor 2 Words of 35 Sweet
Friday's Solution good-bye clover 3 Letters 31! Handsome 
from Greece lad 4 Peruke 37 "None so 5 Dreaded blind as 
desert those who 
denizen would-" 6 Confused 38 Stolen 7 Raised to mazuma 
the third 39 Abounded 
power 42 Worn out 8 God of love 43 Separates 9 King:Sp. 45 Like-of 
1 0 Pretended bricks ©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. confidence 46 Step All Rights Reserved 11 Rouses 48 506 12 Butcherbird 49 Crone 



Simon 
' _L 


Campus 
•I2:
IS p.m. -Lenten Mass, Father Griffin, Base· mcnt of LaFortune, All arc welcome 

•4:30 
p.m. r Meet-Your-Major, Math, 102 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by ALSAC, All arc welcome 

•4:30 
p.m. Meet-Your-Major, Teacher's Education, 2I9 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by ALSAC, All are welcome 

•6:45 
p.m. -Meet-Your-Major, Program of Liberal Studies, Grace Hall Pit, Sponsored by AI.· SAC, All are welcome 

•7 
p.m. -Meet-Your-Major, History, 331 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by ALSAC, All arc welcome 

•7-II 
p.m. -Suggestion Desk, Arts and Letters Advisory Council, Memorial Library Concourse 

•7 
p.m. -Fllm, "Central America: Roots of Crisis," LaFortune Little Theatre, Sponsored by The Central American Awareness Media Series, All are welcome 

•8 
p.m. -WSND-FM Radio, Boston Symphony Orchestra, 88.9 FM 

•8 
p.m.-Business in the SO's, jane Cahill P feiffcr, distinguished American 


..,
Women Lecture Series, Library Auditorium. 
· T.V. Tonight 
7:00p.m. 16 MASII 22 CBS News 28 Joker's Wild 34 The MacNeil/lehrer Report 46 Believers Voice of Victory 
7:30p.m. 16 The Muppet Show 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 
8:00p.m. 16 little House On The Prarie 22 Mr. Merlin 28 That's lncredihlc 34 Great Performances 46 lester Sumrall Teaching 
8:30p.m. 22 Private Benjamin 46 Blackwood Brothers 9:00p.m. 16 NBC Movie: "Roy Ac 
the King ofCountry Music" 22 MASH 28 ABC Movie: "Divorce Wars: A love 
Story" 34 Bernstdn/Beethoven 46 Today With lester Sumrall 
9:30p.m. 22 House Calls 
10:00p.m. 22 lou Grant 34 Profih:s in American Art 46 Jimmy Swaggart Daily 
ll:OOp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswat~·h 28 34 The Dick Cavett Show 46 Praise The lord 
11:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Quincy and Columbo 28 ABC News Nightline 34 Captioned ABC News 
12:00a.m. 28 ABC Movie: "love For Rent" 46 lester Sumrall Teaching 12:30p.m. 16 Late Night with David Letterman 46 Blackwood Brothers 
Today in History · 
ToJay's highlight in history: 
In II.) .;2, the infant son of famed aviator Charles LinJhcrgh was kiJnappcJ from his hom~· ncar Hopcwdl. :-.J,J. 
On this Jat~·: 
In I';62. 1,200 French llugucnots wnc slain at the \lassacrc ofVassy, provoking a rdigious war in France. 
In JHJ S, :\lapokon Bonaparte JanJcJ in France, ti1rdng Loui~ th~· I Hth to 11~·~·. 
~---------~----~--------~ 
Monday, March 1, 1982 -page 12 
With split 
leers earn home ice playoffs 
By MICHAEL WILKINS minutes of the game and were never erupted for two goals in 38 seconds Sports Writer able to catch up. to give the Irish a 6-1 lead. Rothstein On Saturday, Smith was forced to got his first goal ofthe contest by tip­
The Notre Dame hockey team jumble his lines after losing Poulin in ping in a slapshot from the stick of clinched home ice advantage for the Friday night's game with an injured defenseman Rob Ricci. Bjork first round of the play-offs for the knee. Smith also had to find a re­notched Notre Dame's sixth goal by first time since the 1976-77 season placement for Higgins, who was hit backhanding a Jeff Perry pass under by defeating Western Michigan 10-8 with a puck in Friday night's game the sliding Bronco goalie. After Saturday night at the ACC. and forced to miss Saturday's con­Bjork's goal, Western coach Glen 
The Irish, who were forced to play test due to a severly bruised ankle. Weller replaced Healy in goal with without three starting players, The Irish were also without the junior Steve Abbot. But Abbot including leading scorer Dave services of freshman center john could not stop the Irish scoring Poulin, were led by senior Bill Deasey, who suffered a broken jaw machine. Rothstein continued the 
Rothstein and junior Kurt Bjork, in Monday night's victory over scoring by beating the new goalten­who each had a pair ofgoals. Michigan State. der's glove hand after taking a cor­
"I've got to take my hat offto these After a lackluster performance in ner pass from Logan on the pair's kids," Notre Dame coach Lefty Smith the opening game of the series, the patented scoring play. On the en­commented after the game. "We Irish came out flying on Saturday, suing face-off, Bellomy knocked the played without some key people and relying on quick forechecking and puck into the Western zone, allow­
to come back and score the way we lots of body contact to take control ing Bjork to set up Perry for the did was really surprising." ofthe flow ofthe game. Bjork got his eighth Irish goal, just seven seconds 
The victory, combined with two first goal of the evening at 3:34 by after Rothstein's tally. weekend losses by Michigan, tipping a Jim Brown slapshot be­Western Michigan did not give up, pushed the Irish into fourth place tween the pads of Bronco goalie however, as Bronco captain Ross and gave them the opportunity to Glenn Healy. The goal came while Fitzpatrick scored two goals in the host the first round of the Central Western Michigan's Bob Bailey was last four minutes to pull his team to Collegiate Hockey Association play­sitting out a hooking penalty. within five. Fitzpatrick completed offs next weekend against Michigan. Both teams continued to play a his hat trick just 20 seconds into the The icers were forced to win the very physical game throughout the third period with his second game in order to host the first round, first period. Goaltender Dave powerplay goal ofthe evening. after losing to Western Michigan Laurion came up with three big The Irish again scored in spurts, Friday night 6-3. saves in just under two minutes with Bellomy and Regan each notch­
That game saw a flat Notre Dame when Western Michigan took ad­ing goals within 24 seconds of each club outskated by the Broncos, who vantage ofa power-play situation by other. Bellomy knocked a loose were fighting for the final position in putting pressure on the Irish goal. puck past Abbot for his ninth goal of the CCHA play-off picture. Right wing Jeff Logan gave the the year, while Regan scored his Rothstein, john Higgins, and Rex Irish a two goal lead by beating second goal of the contest on a low Bellomy each scored for the Irish, Healey with a thirty-foot wrist shot drive that just found the inside ofthe who fell behind 2-0 in the first five that seemed to stun the freshman post. Regan's goal came just after the goaltender. Notre Dame carried a 2-crowd of3,000 learned that Bowling 0 lead into the locker room at the Green had defeated Michigan, vir­end ofone period. tually ensuring the Irish home ice 
... In the second period, the Irish ex­advantage for the play-offs. ploded for six goals and at one time Once again, Western desperately held a commanding 8-1 lead. Fresh­tried to make a comeback, as four man Paul Salem started off the differrent Bronco players scored in
Cummings ,DePaul overwhelm Irish 
minutes remaining. "This was probably one ofmy best
By SKIP DESJARDIN second period scoring by stuffing the last half of the period to cut the 
"john did the best he could out games," he said. "We had a team
Sports Editor the puck between the goal post and Irish margin to 10-8. Laurion made 
there," said Irish Coach Digger meeting and decided the best way to Healy's skate. Dave Lucia did a good two brilliant saves after the Broncos Phelps. "He has done that all year. go into the tournament was as a total
The stage was set. A packed house job offorechecking to free the puck had removed Abbot in favor ofan ex­
He played good defense, and gave team. That's what we did today ~ 
cheered in anticipation. The perfor­behind the net for Salem, who tra attacker, stopping the Bronco at­
the ball up when he had to. we played together.
mers had rehearsed repeatedly, and slipped it in for his first career goal at tempt to salvage the game after 
"Billy Varner played really well. "Thlis is the best team I've been on
knew their roles. However, the old 2:44 of the period. just over a being behind by six goals with only
He probably had his best game ofthe since I've been at DePaul. We are
adage did not apply, and the show minute later, Sean Regan picked up a ten minutes to play. Despite allow­
year out there today." peaking at the right time. I just hope
never went on. Laurion rebound and skated the ing eight goals, Laurion had several 
But in the end, the Demons were we can keep it up." 
Notre Dame, bolstered by news of puck the length of the rink before key saves throughout the game,
simply too big, too fast ~ too good So now it's on to the NCAA's for 
a Virginia loss that could arguably blowing a shot past the glove hand of including a sliding point blank rob of 
for Notre Dame. DePaul, where they'll try to avoid
vaulted DePaul into the No. 1 posi­Healey for a shorthanded goal. Western's Dave Berthelsen when 
"They had a Jot ofconfidence out the embarassments of the past few
tion in the wire service polls, could After Western Michigan's Bailey the Broncos had a two man ad-
there," Phelps said of the DePaul
not come up with one of its classic scored the first of the team's four
See DEPAUL, page 10
team that has now won 21 straight. See HOCKEY, page 10
upsets, and dropped a 81-69 deci­powerplay goals, Notre Dame 
"They know how to win. Virginiasion to the Blue Demons. 
and North Carolina are the only"We're happy to get this out ofthe 
teams out there that can bother 
Fourth straight
way," said DePaul Coach Ray Meyer them. I can't see them losing theirafterward. "We had not played well 
first game in the tournament thisfor three weeks, and yesterday had 
year." 
Women succumb to Demons 
the best practice of the season. We Phelps refused to rate the threehadn't even had a good practice in teams he sees as the powers in col­By MARK HANNUKSELA average from the field. didn't get the ball to her."
three weeks. 
lege basketball, saying only he'd Sports Writer The Irish were in the middle ofan Unfortunately for DiStanislao and"But today we got almost a perfect group them together. Meyer wanted 8-0 spurt when Robinson left, a spurt company, Robinson wasn't frontedblend ofplaying from our guys. They nothing to do with talk of who's No. It wasn't as much a matter of that brought them from five points when the teams returned to thedid everything just right. If we l. losing as it was ofnot winning. down to a 45-42 lead with nine and floor. She got the ball and canned ahadn't, we'd have gotten beaten. 
"Don't even say it," he com­Notre Dame's women's basketball one half minutes left. As it turned six-foot turnaround at the 18 seconddigger's team played well." 
manded, cutting a reporter off in team failed to take advantage of a out, that three-point lead would be mark to widen the lead to three.
The Demons had a great success mid-sentence. "I don't want to be golden opportunity to put some dis­Notre Dame's largest. Again DiStanislao took time. Thegetting the ball inside to their All­No. l. I voted for us fourth or fifth tance between themselves and With just over four minutes left strategy was to fore the ball insideAmerica forward, Terry Cummings. 

this morning." DePaul, and wound up a 60-55 loser and Notre Dame still leading by
The junior scored a game-high 28 
Phelps piped up from· the back of before 700 Disney Day fans Saturday three, Robinson returned to spark a
points, and received the Wendell 
the room that the Demons had gar­afternoon at the ACC. 14-6 spurt down the stretch that
Smith Award as the game's Most 
nered his vote. Irish Coach Mary DiStanislao said locked up the win for Coach Ron
Valuable Player. 
"Oh, why are you doing that to the loss, which drops her team's Feiereisel's club.
"Terry was superb," said Meyer. 
me?" Meyer asked with a grimace. record to 16-8, "just about dashes" DePaul took the lead for good
"We got the ball inside to him the 
The Demons will not likely take all hopes for an NCAA tournament with 1:49 left on a baseline jumper
way we wanted to. Once he gets the 
over the top spot, but their perfor­bid. by janine Douglas, who shared
ball underneath, he's tough to play 
mance here yesterday certainly was The win was DePaul's ninth game-high scoring honors with Ruth
one-on-one." 
evidence to the fact that they have a straight, improved its record to I 6-Kaiser by tallying 16 points, five
The Irish were led by john Pax­
claim at least to the second position. 9, and may have locked up a tourna­over her season average.
son, who put up an uncharacteristic 
They were as near to perfect as any ment bid for the Lady Demons, a Senior co-captain joAnn
21 shots, and made just eight. His 23 
team that has visited the ACC all team which DiStanislao said has Feit:reisel added a turn-around jum­
points topped all Notre Dame 
season. "established itself as the best inde­per to extend the lead to three, but 
scorers. 
"They ran a great transition pendent in the Midwest" Carrie Bates answered with a field
"We made Paxson work out 
game," said Phelps. "They con­Notre Dame's ·best chance for a goal to cut the defecit back to one.
there," Meyer said. "We played 
trolled the boards at both ends ofthe win came with II :33 remaining in DiStanislao then called a timeout in
good. tough defense on him until the 
court. They made their foul shots at the contest, when DePaul's 6-4 an effort to counteract what she
end. Then we sort offell back and let 
the end of the game. What more senior center Debra Robinson sat knew was coming.
him shoot." 
could you ask for? Terry Cummings down with her fourth personal foul. "When you're in trouble, you got·
It was then that Paxson began to 
and Skip Dillard are leaders. They Ro!Jinson leads the Lady Demons ta go to your horse," DiStanislao said 
put points on the board, scoring 12 
just don't want to lose." in rebounding, is second in scoring afterwards. "Debra Robinson is AI 
,. ofhis 23 after the Irish fell behind by 
Cummings lved up to his advance and stands tlfth in the nation this McGuire's legitimate aircraft carrier.
17 points and there were just seven 
billing as one of the nation's best. week with a 62 percent shooting but when she was fronred, they 
and try to draw foul No. 5 on either Robinson or Feiereisel. It might have worked had Bates been able to hang on to Laura Dougherty's pass. But the ball deflected off the freshman center's hand and out ofbounds. 
See WOMEN, page 9 
INSIDE: 
Trackp.lO Boxscorep. 9 Briefsp. 9 
