
--------~--------------------------------------~~--------------------·-------------------------------~~~----~----~ 
,Irish Extra -page 11
'
' 

VOL XVII, NO. 1'5 thl· indqx:mknt ~tuut:nt nl"w~paJX:r ~r\"ing notre: daml" and ~aint mary's FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1 7, 1982 
NO Magazine 
Greeley files suit against editor 
About 35 people, including stu-

broken into his personal files.  
Greeley was a frequent critic of  
Cardinal John Cody, the archbishop  
of Chicago who died last April 2 5.  
In a telephone interview yester­ 
day, Winters said, "I've decided to  
settle this dispute in the courtroom.  
When the  case  reaches the  cour­ 
toom, I expect that all relevant ques­ 
tions will be answered. Until then I  
do not intend to make any public  
comment on the situation."  
Attempts  to  reach  Greeley  for  
comment were unsuccessful.  
Winters' suit said he was working  
on an article about Greeley and in­ 
terviewed him in March 1980 when  
Greeley gave Winters permission to  
review the priest's files stored in  
Rebecca Crown Library in suburban  
River Forest. The files, said the suit,  
allegedly  had  Greeley plotting  to  
replace Cody with joseph Bernar­ 
din, then archbishop of Cincinnati.  
Bernardin was named archbishop of  
Chicago after Cody died.  
Greeley's suit says he never gave  
Winters permission to examine the  
files,  and  adds  that  Winters  
"unlawfully copied and carried away  
numerous"  private  files  from  the  
library. Campus cartoonist Michael Molinelli signs a copy ofhis latest  
Winters also allowed the files to book, No Outlet, for a Notre Dame coed. The autograph party was  
be given to "various local, national heldyesterday afternoon in tbe basementofLaFortune. The book is  
Molinelli's third, featuring the strip, Molarity. (Photo by ScottSee SUIT, page 5 Bower)  
•··---·-"'-r --···­~------------­ --=--.. ·.:.;::.=.-:.--:::~  ;::-::-:.-::::::-::::::::--:--­___ .  ··::.·::...;::::::..:·:.....--='==-----::·..;.=::::.­ 
]~eagan's Middle-Eastplan  

CHICAGO (AP)-A S5.5 million damage suit has been filed by Andrew Greeley, Roman Catholic priest and newspaper columnist, against the managing editor of the 
Notre Dame Magazine. 
Greeley's suit filed in Cook County Circuit Court Wednesday claims that james Winters, of South Bend, Ind., "wrongfully ap­propriated" the priest's personal files. 
The suit was filed as a counter­claim to a S3 million libel suit which Winters, 25, filed against Greeley last July. Winters' suit charged that Greeley had given him permission to examine the priest's personal files and had lied when he stated on television shows that Winters had 
Maronite mass held to honor Gemayel 
By MICHELE DIETZ 
AssistantNews Editor 
"Bashir Gemayel was a young genius who had a dream for Lebanon to be the most peaceful and democratic country, with peace and justice and brotherhood for all people," said Father Victor Kayrouz, celebrant of a memorial mass for Gemayel held yesterday in Alumni Hall. 
Gemayel, the president-elect of Lebanon, was killed Tuesday, Sep­tember 14, just nine days before he was to take office, when a bomb ex­ploded in his party headquarters in Beirut. 
Kayrouz, visiting from Chicago, taught Gemayel 1 7 years ago at the Modern Institute of Lebanon, a private Catholic college on the out­skirts ofBeirut. 
"I would like to compare him to Bob Kennedy, but he just was not given the chance," Kayrouz said. "He was a real American friend." 
Kayrouz commented on Gemayel's leadership qualities: "Bashir was a young man who was extremely hard to dominate. He was always ready to go and march against every leftist organization." 

ABC will have more thanjustfootball tofilm on Saturday night. The senior class hopes to create an impressive display ofits own. See story below. (Photo by Scott Bower) 
Students toform 'ND block 'in stands 
By GREGORY SWIERCZ 
News Staff 

Thanks to the senior class, the Michigan Wolverine football team will be greeted by something more than 59,075 partisan fans when they enter Notre Dame Stadium Saturday night. 
Plans for an "N.D." block to be formed by fans in thrc::e student sections were approved by the Athletic Department, according to !\1ark Mai, senior class president. 
Mai said 16 students will be passing out green and gold placards to students in sections 28. 29 and .30 tomorrow night. and will be in­structed by the cheerleaders to hold them up before the start of the game. 
Over 2,000 green and gold cards were purchased for the event. Mai said the green cards will form the actual letters, with the yellow cards filling in the background. 
Mai expressed concern for the success of the .large undertaking. He said students' ability to follow the instructions of the card dis­tributors will determine effectiveness. ··1 just hope it is legible," said Mai. 
The senior class chose the placard P•:oject over several others, including little flags, balloons and sparklers. "We ruled them (sparklers) out because they wouldn't be too safe," said Mai. 
Costs for the event ran "about $40." Mai said the main purpose of the plan is to unify the senior class, but noted that 30 million people will also see the event on the nationally-televised broadcast. 
Profes.~or raises objections 


By CAROL CAMP 
SeniorStaffReporter 
Though he believes the content of President Reagan's Middle East in­itiative is satisfactory, an expert here at Notre Dame has raised objections to the way the administration form­ulated and presented the plan. 
Alan Dowty, a professor in the government department at Notre Dame, made the comments after returning from a conference at the State Department in Washington. 
Said Dowty,"Personally, 1 was somewhat puzzled by the descrip­tion of the Reagan plan and what they hoped to achieve. The fact that they went public so quickly leads me to suspect that they were more concerned with making short-term gains in the Arab world rather than with getting diplomacy rolling in Lebanon." 
While he emphasized his satisfac­tion with the content of the Reagan plan, Dowty raised two significant objections. First, he believes there was still a great deal of diplomacy that had not yet been exercised in the Lebanese peace process. Addi­tionally, Dowty expressed his dis­satisfaction with the way "they (the Reagan administration) went about it -they created a dramatic public situ.uion. It would have been much better for them to build a basis for it rather than putting everyone on the spot." 
Periodically, the State Depart­ment confers with leading academians in order to receive input concerning U.S. foreign policy. Dowty explained that he and several other experts in the field of Middle Eastern affairs were "invited in to hear what they (the State Depart­ment) were doing and to gauge our reactions." 

ProfessorAlan Dowty 

On the success of the Phillip Habib mission, Dowty expressed his concern that the negotiations could have been concluded more swiftly, and that had military pressure against the PLO been intensified, the loss of life which occurred during June and July would have been reduced significantly. 
.See relatedstory, page 3 
Because of the withdraw! of PLO forces from Lebanon, Dowty is caautiously optimistic about the na­tion's future. 
He believes that the Lebanese people will rebuild their nation and restore their once-prosperous economy. 
According to Dowty, the PLO has suffered "a severe defeat," and con­sequently, is no longer "in control'" of southern Lebanon. Dowty at­tributes the majority of Lebanon's woes (including the bloody civil war between Moslem and Christian forces which has raged sporadically since 1975) to the presence of the PLO in Lebanon. 
Now that PLO forces have been expelled from Lebanon, Dowty feels that Israel's northern border has been effectively "neutralized," and that the Israelis are only threatened by the belligerence of the border they share with Syria and jordan. Furthermore, the Syrian threat may soon be removed because of the presence of Israeli forces within 15 miles of Damascus, the Syrian capi­tal. He predicts that the Syrians will be m<>re than willing to negotiate the "voluntary withdrawal" of their forces in Lebanon; thus, all foreign 

forces  will  be  removed  from  
Lebanese soil.  
Although  the  departure  of  all  

foreign troops from Lebanon seems to be imminent, Dowty maintains that the key to national survival is "the establishment of a strong central government." The assassina­tion of president-elect Bashir Gemayel is, in Dowty's view, "just another episode" characterizing the violence which has plagued Lebanon for the past decade. According to Dowty. it will be the responsibility of the Lebanese Front to nominate a successor who is capable of victory in the next presidential election. Unfortunaate­ly, the vaccuum which has been left by Gemayel's death could easily result in a resurgence of domestic 
strife. 
Dowty, however, prefers to think that the Lebanese people are capable of overcoming the substan­tial problems confronting them. He maintains that the situation "appears worse than it is," and that in a short time, the Lebanese economy will be functioning once again. To support his claim, Dowty observes that the Lebanese economy is "not that bad" current!);, and that "the country is actually functioning, despite every­thing." 



I. 


ews Brie/§ 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Princess Grace suffered a stroke as her automobile headed toward its fatal plunge off a Riviera mountain road, a French neurologist told a radio interviewer from Monte Carlo yesterday. The report by Prof. Jean Duplay, who attended the dying princess in her final hours, added a new element to the confused accounts ofthe death on Monday ofthe former American movie star Grace Kelly. A Monaco palace spokeswoman, reacting to Duplay's statements, said palace officials had not been informed previously of the stroke. Duplay, chief neurologist at the central hospital in nearby Nice, France, told Radio Luxembourg that Grace's daughter, Princess Step· hanie, tried to stop their Rover 3500 sedan but was unable to ac­tivate the handbrake before the car tumbled 120 feet off the twisting road near Monaco. Suggestions that Stephanie was driving at the time are not true, said the doctor, whose information about what happened inside the auto apparently came from Stephanie, who remains hospitalized with injuries from the accident. -AP 
Health and Human ServicesSecretary Richard 
S. Schweiker yesterday named former Indiana Gov. Otis R Bowen to head a 13-member panel that will review the troubles facing the Medicare program. Bowen, a medical doctor, is currently a professor of family medicine at Indiana University. Schweiker said the Social Security Advisory Council will report back by July 1. By law, inde· pendent panels are established every four years to review the status of Social Security's retirement, disability and Medicare trust funds. However, President Reagan already has established a separate Na· tional Commission on Social Security Reform to deal with the more imminent problems of the old age fund. Schweiker said the new advisory council will concentrate on Medicare. Other council mem­bers include Richard W. Rahn, vice president and chiefeconomist of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States; James D. McKevitt, director of federal legislation for the National Federation of Inde· pendent Business; Stanford D. Arnold of Lansing, Mich., secretary· treasurer of the Michigan Building and Construction Trades Council; Alvin E. Heaps of New York, president of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union and a member of the AFL· CIO's executive council. Past advisory councils have been in· strumentai in charting major changes in Social Security's programs since the late 1930s. -AP 
A 16-year-old Houston student expelled from school for refusing to shave his beard was readmitted yesterday after officials agreed that the beard was part of the youth's Sikh religion. Jagit S. Jolly was expelled last Friday after several confrontations with Eisen· bower High School Prncipal Roy Smith, who had insisted that the youth shave. Jolly said he explained that it was against the tenets of his religion, but the youth quoted the school official as saying, "It doesn't matter. Those are the rules." -AP 
A Harvard University professor whose research bas led to significant advances in the study of bio-organic chemistry has been selected for the 1982 Welch Award. Dr. Frnk H. Westheimer will receive the 1150,000 cash prize, given annually by the Robert A. Welch Foundation, at a Nov. 15 banquet in Houston. Westheimer's research in bio-organic chemistry has led to better undestanding ofenzymes, the biological catalysts that speed up reac­tions of metabolism, foundation spokeswoman Phyllis Spittler said Wednesday. -AP 
Strikershave dropped their pickets at Wellman Thermal Sys· tems In Shelbyville, Ind., where a seven-week strike by United Auto Workers was ended with a tentative agreement with management. Pickets were told to go home late Wednesday, but a strike commit· tee member said union officials were waiting to confer with local president Thomas Harding. Terms of the agreement were not im· mediately known. Members of UAW local 1973 voted" recently to give their negotiating team "wide latitude" in seeking a contract settlement. Company officers were not available for comment yes· terday, but a secretary confirmed to reporters the strike is over and pickets no longer are marching at the entrance to the plant. She!· byville police say they have removed their officers and surveillance teams from the plant. The strike began July 25 when members ofthe local refused to accept a proposed contract that would have reduced worker pay and benefits. There were several reports ofstrike-related violence, including evidence ofgunfire at the plant, at the home ofa company officer and at the home of a replacement worker, one of 145 worers hired to fill the gaps left by the UAW strikers. -AP 
A state senator from Indiana's mill region says the legislature should put up 15 million to train out-of-work Hoosiers for jobs going begging for qualified people. Sen. John Bushemi, D-Gary, wants to set up a qi12Si·public corporation known as the Hoosier State Skills Corp. that could help retrain orkers who lost jobs due to plant closings and will help solve unemployment, which he called Indiana's No. I problem. Bushemi said his proposal is modeled after O!'e enacted in Massachusetts in 1981.lt now has more than 2,000 peovfe in training and has received S8 million from the Massachu­setts legislature, he said, with 35 companies participating on a matching-fund basis. The Indiana legislature recently appropriated S2 milh')fl for the state industrial training program, but Bushemi noted thltt money may be used only for industrial prospects tht will locate new or expanded facilities in the state. Bushemi's proposal would provide training for current job openings. Under Bushemi's plan, which he will introduce as legislation next year if he is re· elected, the corporation will identify occupations that are in demand and help finance training programs that give people direct job skills in these areas. -AP .; 
Mostly cloudy today with a 50 percent chance of mainly afternoon showers. High around 70. Cloudy tonight with a 50 per· cent chance ofevening showers. Low in low 50s. Tomorrow, partly cloudy breezy and cool High in low to mid 60s. -AP 
Friday, September 17, 1982 -p~ge 2 

ND freshman innocence 
Ah, the words that come from the mouth of fresh· men! 
It all happened innocef1tly enough. I was sitting with some friends at the Welcome Back picnic held several weeks ago, enjoying the food and music, when Igot into a conversation with a high-school friend. 
Now Steve was never one to hide his enthusiasm about anything, and it took only 30 seconds to realize that he was just awed by everything about Notre Dame -the typical bright-eyed country-kid-in-the-city reac· tion. 
"There's so much to do here," he gushed. "When does it all end?" That was the killer as far as I was con­cerned, and I burst into laughter. Gee, how "freshman" can you get? I turned to a friend next to me who answered very slowly, "Some say it already has." 
Poor Steve. By now he was totally confused and began to defend his position by enumerating all the things he planned on doing over the weekend He sounded just like the little kid who is given the chance to spend his entire day inside the corner candy store. Everything seemed too good to be true. After thinking for a while, I began to understand how he felt and had to admit to myself that I had once felt the same way. 
We all enjoy putting down Notre Dame from time to time. Complaining about the lack ofthis and the need for that has become a part of our everyday con­versations with friends. With incredible resignation we tell ourselves what a SO· cia! wasteland Notre Dame is and how things will never change as long as .... 
If you can, try to think back to the time when you were a freshmen and you thought everything about Notre Dame was great. Ted Hesburgh was next only to the Holy Trinity in glory. The football team could do no wrong. Let's not kid our· selves: there were a lot ofthings that once impressed us which have lost their luster. 
It was a only a matter of a few days before the "expert" upperclassmen began expounding their knowledge of the ropes to me. Admittedly, their lectures contained some pieces of advice worthy of listening to, but there was also a great deal ofskepticism which I didn't feel comfortable listening to at the time. 
You freshmen out their are probably experiencing the same things now. Advice and lectures lurk behind every corner. Everyone wants to tell you something and after a while, things begin to get really confusing. If you're smart, you'll take most ofthis advice with a grain of salt. Sure, everyone means well but no matter what everyone tells you, the best knowledge you'll gain is from your own experiences. Joe from down the hall may think that there is no hope for a social life at Notre Dame but you'll never know for sure until you give it a go. No two students have the same experiences here; what was bad for someone else may be great for you. Don't give up on something before giving it a chance. 

Design Editor ............ Quarterback Rabbit Design Asststant ....•... Tight-ends Small & 
Keyes Layout Staff. Halfbacks Cathy Anne, Pete Typesetu.rs ................... Center MacLennan 
Helmet-Painter Oakley News Editor ............. FuUback Mark "Stull" Copy Editor ............................. Guard Neely Features Layout .........TrainersJoe & Tari Editorials Layout •.......................J.P. Ktyes Sports Supplemtmt Layout ............. Wide· 
-Receiver Skip Sports Copy Editors ......... Tackle Needles, Punter Richie, Dzancing Dziedzic Typists......................... Staiislicians Laura & Mary Beth Day Editor .. Offensive Coordinator Grell AdDesign ............................. Wingback Bob Pbotograpber......... lnjured Reserve ScO(t Guest Appearances ............. Fumbler Tom Mascot Moose Cheerleader Cheryl Coach "Fuzzy"" Monl< 

Ric-a·Rac, Ric-a-Rue, Get in tbere and really .. .Figbl! 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Obaerver IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Marys Col· Ieye Subscnpt1ons may be purchased fur $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnllng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Obaerver 1s a member of The AssociMed Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lncllana 46556 

·····················~ 
AftlllliOJI OaaaftliWIG!I 
oOFfB~Ll. GA~~-FRI.-4;30~.l/\.-BY MeR~~ 
AIID ~£~ -rAIL~A'IE&. !l~ '~\s 


A few weeks before I left home, an NO junior who lived in my city talked to me: about her first three years and what I could expect in my first. Whether it was intentionally or not, there was never any mention ofthe negative aspects of Notre Dame. "Notre Dame is a country club for the first two weeks," she told me. This girl made the Dome and everything about NO glow. It was with an attitude of great expectancy that I came to Notre Dame. 
The first few weeks did not differ from the rosy forecast she had given me a month before. But looking back on it now is like looking behind you when you're on a roller coaster: everything is a blur. 
If I'm beginning to sound a bit too "rah-rah" about 
this place, it's because that is exactly how I felt when I first came here and to a strong degree, still feel today. Sure, Notre Dame has a long way to go before it's perfect but I don't think any of us can really expect per· fection. We should be able to work Vl.ithin the framework of what we al· ~eady have. Notre Dame is in no way a Catholic Dis· neyland, but don't let that stop you from doing any­thing you want. You may have to work harder for it, but the effort is worth it. Ifat this point you're still hesitant to make the first move, relax; chances are that the next guy probably feels the same way. 
I remember that the most frustrated and unhappy freshmen I knew were the ones that were unwilling to make the initial effort. They looked for a social life to knock on their doors but were frustrated to learn that Notre Dame wasn't New York City. 
Persistence may be the word to keep in mind. You'll be able to get almost anything here if you work hard enough at it. The excitement doesn't have to fizzle out after your first Emil quiz. 
The vtews expressed in tbe Inside column are the vtews of the autbor, and do not necessarily represent the vtews ofThe Observeror its edttorlal board. 


Friday, September 17, 1982 -page 3 
Says Middle-East ex~ert 


Begin benefits frotn invclsion 
By BEN HUSSMANN Majority opinion in Israel remains the occupied West Bank. 
News Staff in favor of the attempt to drive~the If the PLO were to accept Resolu­PLO from Lebanon despite a feeling tion 242, the implication is that this that "the aims of the war developed would be a first step in PLO recogni­
Israeli Prime Minister Menachem piecemeal", said Dowty. tion oflsrael as a sovreign state.
Begin enjoys more popular support For peace to return to Lebanon,
now than before his country's inva­Dowty feels that progress in Dowty opines that Jordan must play
sion of Lebanon, said Professor Alan Middle-East peace efforts cannot be a negotiator role, as Israel will not
Dowty, Notre Dame's resident made by confronting Begin's stand 

I
deal directly with the PLO. He ap­

authority on Middle Eastern affairs, head-on. 
l f
plauds the Reagan administration's

at an informal presentation last night 
"If I were in a position to advise invitation to King Hussein ofJordanin O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
the PLO, I would tell them they to be active in a Middle East settle­
Even though there was "no sense 
could put Begin on the spot by ment, although he questions the
of jubilation" present in Jewish 
accepting UN Resolution 242," said manner in which it was handled.
sentiment for the invasion, he said it 
l f
Dowty. 
Dowty says that creating an

was supported by most Israelis. 
United Nations Resolution 242 autonomous Palestinean state will l
Dowty saw the Israeli invasion as 
was formulated in 1967 after the Six­not end problems in the region; .. 
occurring in two stages. 
Day War. It provides for a general i
rather, a comprehensive plan for the

In the first stage, the Israeli goal 
peace in the Middle East in ex­
region after autonomy must also be I
consisted of"getting the PLO out of 
change for Israeli withdrawal from 
devised.


artillery range" ofthe Israeli border. The withdrawal of PLO and Syrian troops from the Lebanese capital of Beirut comprised the second stage of the invasion, according to Dowty. More opposition to the second stage was present than to the first stage, as many Israelis were dubious of the extension of the war. 
NDband marches at 6pmonSat. 
The traditional noontime concert 
of Notre Dame's marching band on football Saturdays will be moved to 6 p.m. for the evening contest with
Abortion bill defeated; 
the University of Michigan tomor­row. The concert draws thousands of fans to the area near the steps of
organizedprayerproposed 
the Administration Building. Michigan's band will travel to
WASHINGTON (AP) -After a year and a half. Notre Dame to perform during the
suffering a bruising defeat on anti­It was also a ~etback for President abortion legislation, Senate con­Reagan, who hau personally lobbied 
nationally televised game, as will for the measure. It would have Purdue's band for a game on Sept.
servatives sought to rebound 25. The University of Miami will not
yesterday with a measure putting or­provided a quick and easy chance ganized prayer back in public for the Supreme Court to reverse its send a musical group, and final deci­schools. 1973 decision legalizing most abor­
sions have not been received from "We believe we have enough tions. 
officials at Arizona and Penn State, votes to pass a school prayer amend­One Republican source indicated 
other Notre Dame home opponents ment," said conservative Jesse the the Reagan administration is also this year. Helms, R-N.C. pushing hard on the prayer issue. 
A hospitality center, open from 11 Helms' liberal foes vowed to fight 
But both sides say the school a.m. to 7 p.m. Saturday, for alumni him to the end as the Senate neared 
prayer amendment has much and friends will be staffed by Alimni the close of a three-week social 
broader support, and if allowed to Assoc. officials in the North Dome of issues debate. 
come to an up-or-down vote, would the ACC before each game. The Glee "There will be no retreat on this almost certainly be approved. Club will perform there at 6:30. 
matter," said Sen. Lowell Weicker, R­
and CHICKEN and 
SHRIMP 
and QUICHE and 


SOUP 

and FlOUNDER and IDBSTER and SAI,AD 
... and MORE! UnmistakJolv delicious in J \'aricn· of \\'avs. Come in for vour fa\'oritc selection. 
52554 US 31 North 1 mile North on US 31 277-3766 
I
·i 
:t 1•
i ; 
i 
.~ 
f 
t 
! 
Conn. 
Majority Leader Howard Baker had hoped to resolve the prayer fight by late yesterday. But sources said positions on both sides har­dened, and so a liberal filibuster was likely to continue until at least Mon­day. 
After losing on the abortion ques­tions, the sources said, Helms was insisting on a straight up-or-down vote on the prayer amendment, and liberals would agree only to action on a move to table, or set aside, the measure. 
Helms' second amendment to a 

Shoe &boot repair of any kind Die shoes & replace zippers Quick service at reasonable price 8-5 Mon -sat 
federal debt limit bill says the Supreme Court "shall not have juris­diction" over either lower corrt 
A Great PlaceTo Go 
rulings on prayer, or over legislation by the states allowing school boards 
You can even bring your parents 
to draft prayers to be recited in the classroom. In 1962, the Supreme Court ruled 
The Oaken Bucket
that school-sponsored prayer is a violation ofthe separation ofchurch and state under the Constitution, even if students who do not wish to participate are permitted to remain 


Well 
silent or leave the room. 
Critics say the measure is an un­constitutional attack on the in­dependence ofthe federal judiciary. 
"The issue is three separate equal 
Ironwood on the River 
branches of government, whether Congress has the right to tell the 
Phone 289 -1616 
courts what to do," Weicker said. 
On Wednesday, the Senate voted 4 7 to 46 to set aside an anti-abortion measure which had been bitterly 
Famous for our Charburgers 
fought by a small group of liberals. The vote was a clear defeat for the 

Full Dinner Menu 
New Right, which has been pushing a social issues agenda on abortion, school prayer, and school busing for 

Family Dining · Entertainl!'ent 

-~-------~-----------------­

'I 
The Observer Friday, September 17, 1982-page 4 

' 
• 
. ·­
• 
• 
-· 
Revamped parking 

Security tnakes improvetnents 
ByJOHNCOEN 
News Staff 
Improved security apparently is the reason behind the recent redistricting of student parking lots at Notre Dame. 
The new lot classification system, in addition to lighting for the road to Saint Mary's on the night of the Michigan game, a new tornado warning system, and a new fence for the golfcourse are among additional security improvements made recently. 
The parking lots were redistricted in an attempt to improve com­munication among the security guards and to reduce the amount of theft qccurring in the lots, according to Director ofSecurity Glenn Terry. Under the new system, all lots designated by the number "I" are located near the football stadium; all the "2"s are situated on the north­east side ofcampus; and the rest are identified in a similar fashion. This eliminates some ofthe difficulty that existed under the old system, in 


Popejohn Paul II meets smiling Yasser Arafat, chairman ofthe Palestine Liberation Organization, when thepontiffgrantedhim a private audience on Wednesday. ( APPhoto) 
situated lots for off-campus students farther from the campus, at the south end of the football stadium. Terry hopes that by creating a traffic pattern through those districts used by students residing on campus, the 





r.2~!KT!!!f~~~ 
SZECNUAII -CA,YTONESE-AMERICAN 
number ofautomobile break-ins will be reduced.CHUCK WHITE Some off-campus residents have complained about the long distance
* *
At The Piano Bar from the campus that they must See Chuck Ever) Tues. thru Sat. park, particularly when the severe 
8:00 p.m.-1:00 a.m.....Enjoy Life! weather of the winter months arrives. Off-Campus Commissioner
•Dancing• Drinks• Dinger Bill Colleran brought the matter up 
• Hospitalijy• Reaso11abk Prices at a recent meeting of the Student Senate, but no action was taken.
Lunch Special $1.99 to $4.25 
Colleran is currently seekingsugges­tions from off-campus students to
Dinner: $3.50-$8.95 
improve the situation. In the 
"The Best Chinese Food You've Ever HaJ" meantime, Director Terry reported no widespread violations of the new
HOURS: OPEN 7 DAYS Mon.-Thur 11:30a.m.-10:00p.m . A WEEK parking guidelines and said that 
!"ri. & Sat. 11:30 a.m.-11:00 p.m. security usually has a relaxed period
130 DIXIE HWY. SOUTH SOUTH BEND(Roseland) 
Sun. & Holidays 4 p.m.-9:00p.m. 


~~ 
NOTRE DAMEvs. MICHIGAN HOME NIGHT GAME 5aturdav. September 18, 1982 
~ Special Attractions *******************..,. 
..,.SPECIAL HOURS. SPECIAL MENU. -Open noon to1 am . Featuring our regular dinner menu including all your Bar-B-Que favorites. Famous low prices too! 
SPECIAL CARRY OUT SERVICE· By popular demar.d: our Hickory smoked ribs and chicken offered 'to go'~ Call ahead for details and prompt service. 
SPECIAL SANDWICH MENU. Not available any other time, but tor this event. Extra generous B-B-0 Beef, french dip , ham and swiss -each only $4.25or Chicken Teriyaki at $4.95. 
Special Late Night 

* EARTHSHAKERS $2.00 SPECIAL 3drioks in one

*BUCKETS OF BOOZE $4.00 
SPECIAL 6ozof booze 

* PITCHERS OF BREW 
SPECIAL ~3. 75 

*LITRES OF MARGARIT AS SPECIAL $4.95 :~~,;~~ ::?::10 AM in ll~elQ®geoolv .~-:: .-.. :~ 

-~~~,-, __ :;;;. ... ,· 
-~ 
GO IRISH ·HEAT WOlVERINES!!!!
•r~~-:* A~.-...·••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.. 
which the parking lots were named 
in a somewhat random manner. 

In an effort to reduce theft in the ·areas designated for the cars of on­campus students, the university has 
at the beginning of the school year to allow students to become aware of the parking rules that they must follow. 
Musco Mobile Lighting, Inc., which will provide the lights for Saturday night's football game, has also agreed to place a light on the road between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's for that evening. The light will be located at the bend in the road northwest of Holy Cross Hall and will illuminate the area leading to the campus and heading toward 
U.S. 33. It will probably remain operating until 2 a.m. 
Terry said that the light will be used as a trial to see if security im­proves along the road, which has been a problem in recent years. There are no plans to install an emer­gency telephone or take other measures in that area, according to Terry, who cited the cost of such equipment and the risk ofvandalism as reasons for their absence. 
In other matters, Notre Dame is 

Record number ofjobless file tor compensation 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Jobless Americans filed more first-time claims for government benefits in the week preceding Labor Day than at any other time this year, a substan­tial leap which private economists say virtually assures double-digit un­employment this fall. _ 
Some 658,000 people filed initial benefit claims in the week ending Sept. 4, a jump of 29,000 over the previous week, according to seasonally adjusted figures released by the Labor Department. 
It eclipsed the previous I982 peak for unemployment insurance compensation claims, when 640,000 applications were made in the second week of January. That had been attributed by statisticians to a fluke resulting primarily from the fact many people postponed placing their claims because of the New Year's holiday. 
No such statistical aberration was apparent in yesterday's report by the Employment and Training Ad­ministration. The agency also said the nation's insured unemployment rate -the percentage of the labor force eligible for relief-climbed 0.2 percent to 4.9 percent. With a na­tional overall unemployment rate of 
9.8 percent last month, that means roughly halfofall jobless Americans qualify for these benefits. 
The record high since the govern­ment began compiling weekly figures in I974 was 675,000 claims filed in a single week in May 1980. 
In another report that augurs poorly for any new hiring, the Federal Reserve Board said factory use by U.S. manufacturers declined to 69.4 percent last month, the lowest level since the 1974-75 recession. 
The decline of one-half percent­age point from July was the 11th in 


"KICK-OFF SPECIAL" 
SAT 7:00 am-"BLOODY MARY PARTY" 9:00am "Bloody Mary Party" 
12:00 RIBS-Polish Sausage-Hot Dogs 
4:00-7:00 Pre-Game "Warmups" 
VICTORY CElEBRATION 
. ·~t • 
now served by a tornado warning system that is directly linked to the system operating St. Joseph County. The sirens are tested on the first and third Thursday of every month. A directive addressing the matter is located in the front pages ofthe tem­porary student directories. 
Finally, the fence that separates the golfcourse from the South Quad has been moved back from the road by several feet. The action was taken to remove the fence from the tree line and to prevent trespassers from entering the golfcourse by climbing the trees and dropping over the fence. In addition, the extra room along the road can be used for parking during peak traffic periods on the campus, such as orientation and graduation. 
the past 13 months, according to the board. 
The national seasonally adjusted unemployment rate stood at 9.8 per­cent of the labor force in August. And while 99.7 million Americans were working, nearly 11 million could not find jobs. The overall rate, however, was unchanged from July, confounding economists who had forecast a I 0 percent rate last month. 
Behind the overall unemploy­ment fgure, though, was an indica­tion that aurge in part-time employment offset the l<;~ss of jobs by some 300,000 full-time workers. 
Joblessness has been running at post-World War II record levels since April, when the unemploy­ment rate soared from 9 percent to 
9.4 percent. The previous postwar high had been 9 percent, in May 1975. 
Ifthe unemployment rate reaches or exceeds 10 percent -as many economists now believe -·it will be the highest jobless rate since the na­tion recorded an annual rate of 14.9 percent in 1940, when the country was emerging from the Depression. 
Several private economists said the initial claims report portends even further rises in the unemploy­ment rate later this fall, possibly even in September. 
Robert Ortner, the Commerce Department's chief economist, said yesterday, "This is not a good report. It doesn't make you feel good" to see rising claimsfor unemployment pay­ments. 
But Ortner also said the claims report "is only one of many (economic) indicators and it may be a reflection of a cutting back of in­ventories rather than a reflection of consumer spending.'' 
CORBY'S 

.
. 

------------------------~-------------------·----·----------------~--~~-­
The Observer Friday,Septeqtber 17, 1982 --page 5 



Ne-wtnan to keynote conference 
By MICHELE DIETZ 
AssistantNewsEditor 
Edwin Newman, correspondent, critic and commentator for NBC News since 1952, will be the keynote speaker for the "Responsibilities of Journalism" conference on Nov. 22 and 23 at Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Education. 
Newman has received numerous journalistic awards, including six Emmys, two. Overseas Press Club citations, a Peabody, and the French Legion of Honor. He is also the author of two best sellers: Strictly Speaking, andA Civil Tongue. 
The conference will address the most troubling and pressing problems confronting contem­porary journalists and the public they seek to serve. Discussion will be focused on ethical re,;ponsiblity, which has been a growing topic of concern. 
Joining Newman in the con­ference is Elie Able, a correspondent for The New York Times and NBC News, the Harry and Norman Chandler Professor of Communica­tion at Stanford University, and the · former dean of Columbia Univer­sity's Graduate School of)ournalism. 
Other speakers include Leonard Silk, economist and columnist ofthe New York Times; Max Lerner, syndi­cated columnist of the New York Post; John G. Craig, Jr., editor of the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette; Robert ). McCloskey, former U.S. ambassa t dor to Greece and the Netherlands and current ombudsman of the Wash­ington Post; and Jeff Greenfield, media critic for CBS News, syndi­
cated  columnist,  and  author  of  
several  books  on  the  media and  
politics.  

Sponsor t ing the affair is the Gan­nett Foundation, which contributed a grant of $32,500 to Notre Dame's Center for the Study of Man in Con­temporary Society. 
The Gannett Foundation, based in Rochester, N.Y., gives grants to 
... Suit 
continuedfrom page 1 
and international news media," Greeley's suit charged. Winters' story never was published. 
Greeley's suit asks a permanent in­junction barring Winters from using the priest's private files and ordering Winters to return immediately all copies ofthe files. 
Greeley had dismissed material in the files relating to his desire to replace Cody as fantasies and said he never took any steps to carry out his wishes. Bernardin disavowed any knowledge ofGreeley's plans. 
• • .Bomb 
continuedfrom page 1 
dents and faculty attended the Maronite Mass, which was said in Aramaic. The Mass was sponsored by the Lebanese-American Club of 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Saint Mary's student Patty Altoon, president of the club, said, "Gemayel's death has been a great shock, for Lebanese and Lebanese­American students alike." 
Sharing her feelings, Kayrouz said, "It feels awful to talk about such a young man who was killed with no reason whatsoever." 
Kayrouz began the Mass for Gemayel by asking the people gathered not only to pray for the loss of a leader; he said, "We are here to pray for a thing that is very much needed in the world, and that thing is peace." 
educational, charitable, ctvtc, cul­tural, and health institutions and or­ganizations in areas served by daily newspapers, broadcast stations, advertising companies, and other properties ofGannett Company, Inc. 
Robert Schmuhl, assistant profes­sor of American studies and com­munication arts at Notre Dame, will direct the conference and edit a book which will result from it. 
"The conference will focus on the significant concerns affecting jour­nalists and the society in which they operate," Schmuhl explained. "The purpose is to consider the respon­sibilities of journalism from as many angles and viewpoints as possible. Our project will attempt to furnish a wide and diverse audience with the necessary background and framework for intelligent considera­tion ofsuch questions." 
Therefore, joining the various journalists of importance will be speakers in business, ethics, and politics. Two of those included are from Notre Dame; Reverend Edward Malloy, associate provost and as­sociate professor of theology and the author of several books and ar­ticles about contemporary ethics, and Reverend Oliver Williams, as­sociate professor of management and an authority on religion and business values. 
According to David Leege, profes­sor of government and director of the Center for the Study of Man in Contempora .ry Sociey, the con­ference will "explore what respon­sibility in journalism means to the 
newsperson, to the government offi­cial, to the businessperson, to the et­hicist, and to the citizen." 
"By considering the topic from different perspectives," Leege said, "we hope that our work will stim­ulate further thinking and sys­tematic research in this area." 
The conference will begin at 10 a.m., Monday, Nov. 22. This first day will be devoted to the presentation and discussion of papers prepared by print and broadcast journalists and by representatives of govern­ment, business, journalistic educa­tion, and the public interests. 
On Tuesday, Nov. 23, a hypothetical case study, involving issues of journalistic responsibility, will be analyzed by academic et­hicists and journalists. All sessions will be held at the Center for Continuing Education. 

Female artists display, discuss Snite exhibit 
ByJERRYWHOOLEY 
News Staff 
Five Indiana female artists dis­played and critqued several of their art works in a slide presentation and lecture held Wednesday night in the Snite Museum Auditorium. 
The presentation !tighlighted the "Women Artists: Indiana-New York Connection" exhibit curr.ently on display in the Snite Gallery. 
The exhibit, scheduled to run through Sept. 27, "emphasizes the significance of women artists in the contemporary art world," according to Marjorie Kinsey, professor of art at Notre Dame. 
Kinsey provided the introduc· tions for each of the five par­ticipants, pointing out their goals and achievements in their respective art fields. 
Moira Geoffrion, professor of art 
a.t Notre Dame, began the lectures, followed by Carol Ann Carter, professor ofart at Saint Mary's; Cyn­thia Huff; Anne Nickolson; and Jan Tenenbaum. 
Following the introductions, each 
•
' I a 

artist gave a slide presentation of several of her projects. Some of the participants chose to begin with their early works and then to demonstrate how their talents had developed. Presentations ranged from painting to sculpture, and styles varied markedly. 
The lecture culminated with a talk by Kinsey on art history and a subse­quent question and answer period. 
The lecture is one in a series ofart events slated to be held at various sites throughout Indiana. 
Geoffrion suggested the idea to members of the Snite Museum ad­ministration, who were very sup­portive. Geoffrion then sent letters to various private artists and univer­sity art departments in order to elicit responses to the proposal. 
Many of the artists contacted expressed interest in the program, and Geoffr .ion subsequently began the organizational procedures: 
Funding for the lecture came in part from the Notre Dame College of Arts and Letters, the Indiana Arts Commission, and the National En­dowment for the Arts. 
a a 






Notre Dame Bookstore 
·'' • 
~a 
a a a m a a a a ~ 
·'· 

The Hammes 
-.

0 .. ,:·;.··I· 
~" ~~ i 
..11.1 ~'c"'~....Q;~G. ~ GIANNE1TO'S 
~ GXJ ~00 ~ ORIGINAL 
~~STUFFED PIZZA 
I 

Prices quoted on request 
Dixie Giannetto, owner of the former Giannetto's 
Besbraunt, wishes to announce that her famous STUI'I'IID PIZZA, voted lut year u Michiana's finest is now being served at Mr. Bentons. 
Hours 4:00·10:00 pm Tues-Bat Closed Sun ~ Mon 907 :Sl st. St. South Bend Phone: 289·9008 

I 

Ftiday Night at Attio's 
'Halfway to St. Pat's Day Patty' 
*Home made ltlsh Stew · 
*Gteen Beet and Pltchet Specials
*Authentic Live 
ltlsh Entettainment (9 pm -?)
*Bushmells ltlsh Jl/shot 
5pm-? Come on down . and Celebrate 


Go ND-Beat (Tlichigan 
a F
• r ... • • .:l 
·.·~. 
• 



The Observer Friday, September 1 7, 1982 -page 6 
Lebanese protest 

Israeli forces sieze key areas 


BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -Israeli armored forces seized key areas of west Beirut yesterday after heavy fighting with PLO guerrillas and Lebanese leftist militias. Lebanon called for urgent U.S. and United Na­tions intervention to force the Is­raelis to withdraw. 
The State Department in Washington said there was "no jus­tification" for the Israeli presence in west Beirut" and demanded "an im­mediate pullback." 
Fierce fighting raged in two neigh­borhoods at nightfall as Israeli troops and tanks took over sections of west Beirut. But other areas reported that the firing had halted af­ter battles that Lebanese police said left 31 Lebanese dead and 110 wounded. 
West Beirut blacked out at sunset with an unexplained power failure. It could not be determined whether Israeli forces in Christian-populated east Beirut had cut off power supplies to the western sector as they did twice since the invasion of Lebanon on june 6. 
The Israeli troops moved into the former PLO strongholds in west Beirut after the assassination of President-elect Bashir Gemayel Tuesday, saying that with Gemayel's death the Lebanese army lacked the leadership to maintain control ofthe sector. 
The State Department said the thrust was a "clear violation of the cease-fire understanding" arranged by U.S. envoy Philip C. Habib that led to evacuation of the main body of Palestine Liberation Organization fighters from west Beirut three weeks ago. 
Lebanon's ambassador to the United Nations called for an urgent Security Council session on the Is­raeli foray, which began within hours of the assassination tuesday evening ofGemayel. 

Bashir's brother Amin was reported nominated by the Chris­tian Phalange Party to run for presi­dent to succeed Elias Sarkis Sept. 23, but it was not known if Amin ac­cepted or what the next step would be in Lebanon's constitutional crisis. Bashir Gemayel was scheduled to take over as president Sept. 23. 
The Israeli army said it pushed ito west Beirut for the first time in its 14-week-old invasion to forestall new bloodshed and fill the political vacuum in the wake of Gemayel's murder and head off any new linkup between Lebanese leftists and 2,000 Palestinian fighters believed still in the Moslem quarter. 
Begin summoned his Cabinet into emergency session to discuss the west Beirut sweep, and there were reports in the Israeli press that some of his ministers were angry that he authorized the advance without consulting anyone but Defense Min­ister Ariel Sharon. 
The Tel Aviv command said its forces had taken control of "all key points" in west Beirut and called on the militiamen and guerrillas to lay down their arms. But the leftists 
vowed to fight on, and Israel radio correspondents in Beirut reported "stubborn resistance" continuing. 
The tank thrust brought west Beirut's five-mile-long beachfront under Israeli army control. 

Reagan may request lame-duck session 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan wrote Senate Republican leader Howard H. Baker Jr. yester­day that Congress may have to return for a lame-duck session after the November elections if it fails to complete work on spending legisla· tion, sources reported. 
Reagan's letter was tantamount to a call for that special session, since there is little chance that Congress, eager to break for the campaign, will enact the spending bills beforehand. 
Sources both on Capitol Hill and at the White House said Reagan told Baker he did not want to go through another year funding the govern· ment with stopgap resolutions in· stead Ofregular appropriations bills. 
One source said Baker was telling rolleagues Nov. 29 would be a likely return date for a lame-duck session. 
The appropriations bills spell out how federal tax dollars are to be spent, as a budget does, whereas "continuing resolutions" simply direct federal agencies to operate at a given general level pending adop· tion offormal appropriations. 
Reagan complained bitterly last year that Congress had failed to adopt appropriations bilh carrying out his planned budget cuts. And he vetoed one continuing resolution, preferring to let the government run out of operating funds rather than accept spending at levels he said were too high. 
Congress eventually passed com­promise emergency speding legisla­tion but never completed work on all 12 appropriations bills. 

GOOD LUCK IRISH 


BEAT MICHIGAN 
Your NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION And Their "LUCKY LEPRECHAUN" Wish The IRISH "GOOD LUCK"! 



Take a "LUCKY LEPRECHAUN" To The Game. Available for only $10.00 
At The ................ 
NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION 
l 
.! 
The Observer Friday, Septe~ber 17, 1982-page 7 

Marcos visits Reagan atnid protest 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­1981. people demonstrated in front of the 
dents Reagan and Ferdinand Marcos A senior administration official White House during the visit. 
~xchanged salutes amid pomp and first said that the subject of human "Marcos: Reagan's hitman in Asia," 
protest yesterday as the Filipino rights was not discussed "in any read one of their signs. Another, 
leader called for a strong U.S. hand detail" in Reagan's one-hour referring to Marcos' wife, Imelda, 
"on the lever ofpower" in the world. meeting with Marcos, but then ack­who has been .criticized for osten­
While demonstrators outside the owledged under questioning that it tatious behavior, said, "How do you 
White House as~ailed the purported was not raised at all in what he spell conspicuous consumption? IM­
strongarm tactics of Marcos, the described as an "extremely ELDA." 
visiting leader declared that his na­amicable" conference. Mrs. Marcos, a governor of 
tion lost a million people. in World "I think they have made great metropolitan Manila and minister of 
War II fighting for the principles of progress," Reagan said when he was human settlements, took part in an 
American democracy, and "we have asked if he was satisfied with the expanded meeting of the presidents 
always stood by these ideals. We human rights situation ofthe Marcos and their aides in the Cabinet Room. 
shall continue to do so." administration. Opposition groups have vowed to 
Amnesty International, a human­While the Philippines embassy stage demonstrations against 
rights organization, has said that has gone to great lengths l'O portray a Marcos throughout his stay here. 
torture cases are frequent in the friendly welcome here for the presi­Among other allegations, these 
Philippines, and disappearances and dent, who last visited the United groups contend that Marcos has sent 
killings have continued following States 16 years ago shortly after secret police to the United States to 
the lifting of martial law in january, taking office, approximately 75 silence critics. They blame the 
Marcos government for the june 
1.98I assassinations of two anti­Marcos labor leaders in Seattle. 
Marcos, 65, was accorded a full state arrival ceremony, including a 21-gun salute and a parade of a 
Chrysler, United Auto 
colonial-era fife, drum and bugle 
corps on the White House South 
HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. (AP)­profits of more than S20 million, a Lawn. He arrived eight minutes late 
Chrysler Corp. and the United Auto joint committee to chop 1!1 0 million for the official start of the five-day President Ronald Reagan and Philippine President Ferdinand 
Workers union reached tentative out of Chrysler's more than $300 state visit expected to focus on Marcos attend arrival ceremonies on the South Lawn oftbe White 
agreement yesterday on a "modest" · million health care program and a security, trade relations and human Houseyesterday at the start ofthestate visit byMarcos. See story at 
new contract asking no concessions joint program to curb absenteeism. rights. left. (AP Photo) 
from workers for the first time since 
1979 and promising raises pegged to 
profits. 
Because the agreement came six 
and a half hours after a 24-hour· ex­
tension of the previous contract 
expired, thousands of U.S. auto 
workers had walked off their jobs, 
idling component pints and the five 
Chrysler U.S. assembly plants for at 
reach tentative contract 
l­
< -~
least part ofthe day. 
"This tentative agreement ac­
r 
hieves our principal goal to start the { 
r
Chrysler workers on the lorig, long 
:­
road back to parity with workers at 
t
General Motors and Ford," UAW 
f. 
president Douglas Fraser and Marc :~ Stepp, vice president, said in 
:'!!. 
·.. 
announcing the accord at 6:20 a.m. i yesterday. "There are no conces­sions of any description that were "' I made in this agreement," Fraser f 
J
added. 
!.
The pact covers 43,200 workers ~ now on the job and 40,000 on in­
~ 
!;
definite layoff. Today the accord goes before the 
·' 
150-member Chrysler council, made up oflocal union officials from across the nation. The vote will be the first step toward ratification by the membership, expected to take 10 days to rwo weeks. Fraser said ifit 
···········~~·~--~·····:··:········;····················:::·····-~ ~. 
-add •o •he auc•ion and you will r---eive..·. ·. ···· 'G.· 
is approved, the pact probably will 
1'-------------~ 

$50.00 .off your purchase. Minimum purchase $200.00. :'~ > . !
be retroactive io Sept. 15. "I don't think it's going to be an 
limit to one card per purchase. .~" ' ..j 
easy ratification because it is a 

We will liquidate a luge selection of BdD•AD•;•'' ·.· :· l i;

LMM~!II

modest agreement," the UAW presi­
PBBSIO. and ORIB.!AL BUGS sold piece1tJ piece ~· ~ 
dent said. "So I suppose it's a ques­tion ofconvincing the membership. 
• to the lll,..ftBIDD•a ~ 
We couldn't have gotten anything 
CLIP TBIS:I COUPOIIS···· 

PUbIIC AuctiOn ~· better without a prolonged strike." 
.....,••.........•...••.•.•....,.......
~····~··················· 

Thomas Miner, Chrysler vice 
. PERSIAN & ORIENTAL RUGS
president ofindustrial relations, said 
ftia list includes OYir40()valuabiP HANDMADE PERSIAN & ORII~N­
the new accord "will add to 
TAL RUGS from China, Pak'rstan. Romania, India, Afghanistan, Turkey &Per·
workers' paychecks as the company 
sia. Silk investnoellt pieces. Sup~r Chinese, Bokaras, lsphahans. Hunting
~-~~-1 ::::::.:0 :and Chrysler's profits improve, and 
Scene Kashmir Oums, Keshan, Sculptured Aubussons, Tree of Life Tabriz. 
it will help control costs." 
Kermans and Hallway Runners. Approximate sizes range from 2x3 to
with coupon 

The proposed contract includes a 

10zl'
llo limit on purchue. or 40 tokens for $5 
cost-of-living plan like the one at General Motors Corp. and Ford 
Gameroom open year-round 

:f:
Motor Co., wage increases based on 


South Bend's Hottest Spot Two Full Bars Hot sandwiches & Pizza Catty out beer & rilE liquor 
...........P.._II!lHo, 
................tSE 

1block south of ..... Holiday Inn US 31 N. Open 'til Jam 
t.
expires Oct.15 

··················································-············ 
t 
~~~~~····························· 
. 
.0 

SURDAY MARRIOft IIO!:IL Sept. 19 at &pm Ball Jloom South Bend ... ..
IGrtbeluaoliC!. 
DOOR 
.

and pl~y All Three courses 
.

PRIZE 
·' 
.

(games good any time) for only $2.00 
,PREVIEW: One nour prior GIVEN . Auctioner:Gabriel brallO:
(halfpriceflring your friends along. We'll 
Thi• oller only valid for above mentioned auction. Void where prohibited by law.let them in on thedeaftoo! 
A certlf1cate of Va:ue & AuthP.n!icrty w1tn ev'!Jri rug r.urchaseel 
'terms:cuh, check or charge Expires Oct. 15 . 
117~,8-RUGS OPE!l YEAR ROUIID! ' 
······························································• 
8702 Keystone Crossing Inclianapolis '6160 36!_5-II. Main., Mishawaka (one-block south of 
CRoyaQ QaQQe!fy o& CRugs. 9nc. .. .
Edison Rd.) Open-till midnlght 259-4171 
. 

.···•····••····••••··•····••••••····•·························•····•• 


'
. The Observer Friday, September 17, 1982 -page 8 


• 
' 't 
~. 
:
. 
'~ ·.
.·. 
:::. 
~-· 
~· 
'· 
~-­
,.,, f.A.ST DAY ROAD 

'-.11SHAWAKA • 
. . . ' 256-2800 
r--·\ -------~~-~------~--------,.-·
I ·'. . ·:-.· . • 
. t 
. BUY oNE C.AM'r : 
. &YOUR. . . : PARTNER PLAYS·'·: 
I
fREE!. : 
. . . .· 
...
.·_ 
18 HOLE MINIATURE: ' GOLf COURSE. •
/-l . . I
t .
.... 
1 FREE GAME WITH COUPON · 1 
· · ()(l'lllf:·No·v ··1·· 198.2 ·~ 
----------~-~--·' ... __,-.. . . ~--~ 

HOUR':-li•-TO·HJ7DAYSAWE£i< 
IIOCATHH<Uil TO THE BAND ORGAN RESTAURANT!
-ASK ABOUT OUR_ DISCOUNT PRICES 
.COMPLETE _PRO SHOP. 

• ~ i 
.,. BASEBALL MACHINES· .,.... GOLF~EOUJPMENT ... GOLF LESSONS . ,, ·._.. GAMEROOM ._.. -DRIVfNG RANGE -...sPORTSWEAR 
. . -~ . 
--~~-. 
·• . 
.· ·-~ 
. 

. .Join us or a
··.. 

SPECIAL SATURDAY 




BRUNCH 
y." • 
.·. 
·.' 

~ ~"!P 0~t 18,1982 _, 
.froln l·oam to Zpm 

_.,.  
I .. . :  \'~.TIPPECANOE PLACE·  
\  · ·RESTAURANT·  

bzO w.\Wa£hington. I South Bmd, Ind. l'n!Jne: 264-907T 
Reservations· Recommended 
Long-term survival rate increases 
CHICAGO (AP)-The long-term survival rate of women with ad­vanced stages of breast cancer who undergo radical mastectomy has sharply increased in the past 40 years, according to a study that indi­cates such extensive surgery may be beneficial in some cases. 
The surgery, which involves removal of the breast, lymph nodes and chest muscles, has been abandoned by many doctors who say removal of breast tissue alone is enough to stop most cancers. 
The principal author of the new study, Dr. Donald Ferguson, said an increasing number of doctors believe "you get just as good results from getting small operations as large ones" but he believes "the data are not really there to support that." 
The study found that in the last 
four decades there were consistent 
increases in the number of women 
who survived 10 years or more after having a radical mastectomy for ad­vanced breast cancer. 
The study also found that women who live 1 5 years after the surgery attain a life expectancy about the same as that ofthe U.S. population in general. 
I{Women survived 10 years or more after surgery" 
The study compared women with advanced cancer who had radical mastectomies between 1927 apd 1944 with a similar group which had operations in 1945 or later. 
hi the first group, 29 percent lived at least 10 years after surgery; in the second group the 10-year survival rate was 47 percent. 
Eighteen percent Qfthe women in the first group survived 20 years, compared to 31 percent in the second group. 
Ferguson attributed the improved s~rvival rates largely tobetter surgi-

cal techniques. Advanced breast cancer was defined in the study as that in which a tumor had spread to the lymph nodes or areas around the breast. 
The study found that women who had radical mastectomies for malig­nant tumors confined to the breast had the same high survival rate 50 years ago that they have today, despite the modern use of radiation, chemotherapy and treatment with hormones. 
The survival rate between 1927 and I944 was 7 4 percent, it said, and from 1945 to I978 it was 73 per­cent. 
The University of Chicago con­ducted the study, reviewing records of radical mastectomies on 1,259 women under age 70 between 1927 and 1978. The results were publihed here in the Sept. 17 issue ofthejour­nal of ·the American Medical As­sociation. 
The research does not compare the effectiveness of radical mastec­tomy with other treatments for malignant breast tumor-S, including the simple mastectomy, in which only the breast tissue is removed. 
The authors did not advocate any particular type ofoperation. 




The Observer Friday, September I 7, 1982 -page 9 
House passes jobs program 
WASHINGTON (AP) The Democratic leaders who have u:.eu predominantly Democratic House the measure to focus attention on passed a Sl-billion public service the nation's 9.8 percent unemploy­jobs program yesterday over ment rate less than two months Republican protests that the before the election. election-year measure would have "My people will take anything as much impact as "spitting in the they can get," said Rep. Barbara A. ocean." The GOP had offered a $1.5-Mikulski, D-Md. billion version. Rep. John Rhodes. R-Ariz., said the 
On a 223-169 vote, the plan measure was "a hoax" because the drafted by Democratic leaders to impact on unemployment would he create 200,000 temporary jobs was "literally like spitting in the ocean." sent to an uncertain future in the He added it was aimed mainly "at GOP-controlled Senate. helping people who are running in 
The bill was adopted following a the election in November." day of heated partisan rhetoric and a However, said Rep. David E. 2"l.~-l 52 vote rejecting the Bonior, D-Mich., the measure was Republican substitute. "not a drop in the bucket" to 
Majority Leader Jim Wright, D­"people who have lost hope." Texas, said the Democratic plan is Michel dismissed the measure as aimed at putting "Americans back to "a little bit of largess, all in the name work doing things that need to be ofpolitics." done," repairing roads, bridges and Having said that, the Republicans other public facilities. offered an alternate version which 
Wright conceded that the bill is would transfer S I. 5 billion from the not a cure-all but "a tourniquet to staunch the hemorrhage by which this economy is bleeding ..." 
Republican Leader Robert H. Mic­hel ofIllinois decried the measure as "a fake work bill" and "a great way to flimflam your way through the elec­tion." 
House action capped a week of · statements and news conferences by 

Citizens suggest bailout 
FORT WAYNE. Ind. ( AP)-A Fort Wayne citizens group is suggesting that lnternatonal Harvester employees defer I 5 percent of their pay over the next three years as an additional incentive to lure the firm into keeping the truck plant here open. 
The measure suggested Wednes­day is a "last-ditch" proposal, said Paul Helmke. presidnt ofFort Wayne Future Inc., a local planning or­ganization ofabout 300 people. 
Harvester has announced plans to close one of its three North American truck plants. The Canadian plant is expected to remain open because the financially­troubled Chicago-based firm would risk heavy tariffs if it is shut. 
Ohio has presented a S30 million package to the Chicago-based firm and Indiana has presented a S31 mil­lion package aimed at maintaining operations. 
Helmke said the decision could 

come  soon  and  the  community  
group's prop osal  may  carry  some  
weight.  

Harvester spokesman Bill Colwell said it will probably he l 0 days to two weeks before Harvester makes a decision on the plant closing. 
The community group says if all "l,OOO Harvester employees allowed the firm to maintain custody of l 5 percent of their salary for three years, it would save Harvester 548 million over three years. , 
Helmke said if "'0 percent of the employees participate the savings would he about S30 million, and proponents of the plan would be content. 
If Harvester agreed to the proposal, employee~ participating in the voluntary program would be repaid at a minimal if'lerest rate upon retirement, or after tlve years, whichever is prferrcd. 
Full-page donated advertisements appeared in yesterday·-editions of the Fort Wayne jou al-Gazette and Fort Wayne .fV, •s-Sentinel, carrying a coupe-, Harvester employees to fill out :lling what percent of their sala 1ey would like withheld and for , , long. 
The coupons were to be deposited at local banks and subse­quently taken to Harvester. 
government's synthetic fuels program and use it to provide public service jobs for people who have been unemployed for at least six months. 
The GOP substitute was advanced by Rep. Lynn Martin, R-Ill., who represents the city of Rockford, which has the nation's highest un­employment rate at 19.3 percent. 
Even with affirmative House ac­tion on the Democratic bill, it will be a long way from becoming law. 
Senate Majority Leader Howard H. Baker Jr.. R-Tenn., has said he does not plan to bring up the bill in the Senate. But he acknowledges it could come up as an amendment to some other legislation. 
Even if both houses pass the bill, a veto by the president would be vir­' tually assured because of the ad­ministration's opposition to federal financing of local public works jobs programs. 



Editorials 
Friday, September 17, 1982 -page 10 
I I i; 
I 
Don 't ouerdo it 1 
This weekend is destined to be a memorable one. Tomorrow's opening game, broadcast to a national television audience promises all the "tailgaters," and related festivities which epitomize the Notre Dame foot­ball weekend. There will never be a dull moment. But at the same time we must be sure to maintain some semblance of sanity during this ribald weekend, lest we find ourselves rushing with reckless abandon into these two days ofreveling. 
The 8 p.m. kick-off time of tomorrow's football game presents a perfect opportunity for students, alumni, and friends to become swept away amidst an ocean of alcoholic beverages. With the kegs on Green Field tapped as early as 1 p.m., the potential for drunken riots is very great. Ofcourse, this is exactly what many people are looking forward to. Sparing a temperance lecture, there are still a few points which the more intelligent people should be aware ofbefore diving headlong and headstrong into into a sea of alcoholic consumption. 
First of all, drunken rowdies will not be allowed admittance to the stadium. This doesn't mean that all those who are drunk will be denied admittance; just show restraint in your actions and you should encounter no problems with security. For all the alumni and others who will be driving home after the game, be aware that state troopers will be out in force from western Ohio to Chicago. If you are lucky enough to avoid the terrible accidents which happen only to "other people," there is still a good chance that you'll be stopped and arrested for drunken driving. 
And of course, do not forget about the game itself. It' should be an interesting, exciting contest. You don't want to be spending it getting sick in the parking lot or sleeping it off in the car. Be smart tomorrow. Know your limitations. It's going to be a long day. Ifyou have to drive, don't drink, or find a place to stay for the night. Ifwe all show a little restraint tomorrow when drinking, the fun and excitement that the day promises will become a reality. 
Buffalo daily shuts down 
About a week ago, !learned the the Buffalo Courier-Express. which happens to be the newspaper I grew up with, is going to go out of publication by September 19, unless a buyer can be found. Aside from the obvious sentimental loss that a person tends to feel, their is definite community loss. What is mo~;t tragic might be the fact that the ~ourier-
Randy Fahs 

Friday Analysis 
Express is just another in the long line ofnews publication which have been forced to shut down because of financial reasons. In the last thirteen months alone, the Washington Star, the Philadelphia Bulletin, the Des Moines Tribune, theMinneapolis Star, the Cleveland Press and an evening edition of the New York DailyNews have gone out ofcirculation. 
The age ofmany locally owned newspapers in each city is rapidly fading into the history books. Financial problems, caused mainly b.y the upswing in television news viewing has been largely responsible for this trend. Most cities are finding that they can support only a single daily paper which is part ofa large news syndicate. 
These trends are alarming because the con­solidation ofnews sources in the hand ofa few will seriously undercut a wide range of view­points and story selections. 1n a one-paper town, the news service must remain strictly impartial or it will give one side an unfair ad­vantage. None of us are completely without opinions, so we are leaving the few remaining editors in a rather precarious position. This problem becomes even more acute when a few people control many papers throughout the nation. 
Another alarming trend in this massive con­
solidation ofnews services is their reliance on 
major national advertisers. This dependence 
on their money will make a publisher unwill­ing to print a story critical ofthe advertiser for fear of a loss of revenue. This money-crazy mentality will dominate the paper and cause a meteoric rise in tabloid papers like The Star and The National Enquirer which are parasitic for gossip. Another effect of"bottom line journalbm" will be watered down and sensationalized product like we presently find on television. When monetary ends become significantly important in news services, the quality of their product ultimately deteriorates. 
Ifa newspaper is allowed to gain a monopo­ly over its readership, then we will see results similar to those which happen in industries which have become monopolized. News quality and efficiency are going to suffer be­cause there will exist no competitor on whom one might get an exclusive story. Reporters will soon become more lax in their inves­tigative techniques. One must remember that news services provide an important check on business and industry for a community. 
As for the Courier-Express, there is a dim hope that a buyer might be found to save the paper which began in 1828. If the paper is allowed to go out of publication it will find itself in a crowded graveyard for now­deceased news services. I find it difficult to believe that we are not coming to our news papers with monetary aid as whole com­munities as a way of showing appreciation for their untiring public service. 
The paper business, like anything else, is a gamble. The stakes are high and there are al­ready too many losers. As Courier-Express columnist Carol Stevens put it when learned of the paper's closing, "For years we have all known the chances. And we took the gamble anyway. And now we are all sad. But I don't think we're sorry." To all employees of now­defunct news publications: I thank you for your efforts; I'm terribly sorry that they could not continue. 
RandyFahs 

Nuclear Euacuation: Much ado about nothing? 
Imagine: A world controversy throws su­perpowers into a state of military readiness. A conventional war is ruled out. The Soviets give the U.S. an ultimatum. Ifthe U.S. does not comply within two weeks, the Soviets will begin firing its nuclear missles at strategic points on the continent. What do you do? 
Gregory Swiercz 
Speaking Out 
This scenario follows some bask assump­tions the St. joseph County Civil Defense, in cooperation with the Federal Emergency Management Agency, believes will preclude a nuclear missile exchange on an area that in­cludes the University of Notre Dame. 
But before you begin to flock to the Grotto to light a candle, or pack away your Bruce Springsteen albums and dog books, or run to your biology lab to save your experiment from contamination, Civil Defense officials want to assure everyone that a plan exists to save your live if the missiles start flying. That is, if it is at all possible. 
South Bend/Mishawaka has been designated as a high risk in Indiana if a nuclear attack should occur. In 1980, St. joseph County presented an evacuation plan which, in theory, expects to relocate I 00,000 people outside the densely populated urban areas. 
The report assumes there will be a period of world crisis, which will preclude the event of a nuclear missle exchange. Upon such an event, St. Joseph County will be "ready." 
There are over 230,000 people in The greater St. Joseph County. What are the rest of the people going to do? Fallout shelters in the city will hold a few thousand, with others probably heading to visit family, friends, or they'll just sit at home and wait for the attack. 
It is truly amazing the way politicians boast 
of "beating" the Soviets in nuclear arms 
deployment, or the U.S. superiority in figuring 
out where their bombs are so we in turn can 
destroy them and strike with our own. 
Who are they trying to kid? Werner Von 
Braun, the "Father of the Bomb," once said af. 
ter he experienced the unleashed power of 
the first atomic bomb that he was saddened 
for bringing such an intense killing weapon. 
He knew what the future of such a discovery 
would be. 

Yet some startling facts must be aired, facts 
that by their nature could successfully con­
tradict the most carefully laid out survival 
plan. 

The Soviet Union, which by far is our 
primary nuclear arms threat, has the 
capability and the armaments to effectively 
"spray" the United States with missles, which 
strengthens the probability ofa nuclear strike 
near Notre Dame. Regardless of the 
voluminous political debates and technologi­
cal arguments on the possibility of "winning" 
a nuclear war, the threat of widespread 
destruction will persist as long as there are 
weapons. 

Officials who formulated the evacuation 
plans admit to providing "short term" protec­
tion for evacuated personnel. While plans to 
send people to neighboring rural areas seems to lessen the chance of a hit on the densly­populated urban areas, radiation and the chance of a direct hit on South Bend renders the plans useless. While costs for the plan have been kept small due to the "political tightrope walking" of civic leaders and a strong public outcry for arms reduction, -money spent on the plans might be better used for a more im­portant issue in the community. 
Medical services are planned to try to al­leviate the radiation burn victims, but a recent South Bend Tribune section on the St. Joseph County evacuation plan quotes Dr. james Mul­ler, a Notre Dame graduate and one of the founders of the International Physicians for the Prevention ofNuclear War, saying that the medical facilities in an all-out nuclear ex­change will be destroyed. Countless severe burn victims would overwhelm the aid sta­tions, and long-term radiation would be prevalent. Simply stated, medical help would be futile. 
Can you imagine the time students will wait at the infirmary to be trea'ted for radiation burns? 
But the question haunts mankind: What would happen if a bomb as dropped? 
An associate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering here is trying to find the clues to nuclear explosion effects. 
Dr. Murty Kanury has received a S49,730 grant from the Nuclear Defense Agency to fund his research plans to build a scale model of a major city and explode a 5-megaton TNT blast to study fire, wind, and other effects on the model. 
Kanury's study will add to the much­needed quest for information on the nuclear effects a war could have. But nothing needs to be added to the fact that the outcome ofa blast spells "disaster." 
It remains to be seen if world leaders will force an evacuation plan of this type to be implemented. It is horrendous to think that the world's existence can be terminated with the push of a button. Nevertheless, p!ans and preparations are still being made. 
This week the editorial pages have presented a cross-section of views on the question ofnuclear arms. Some have been fun­ny, others satirical, yet the very existence ofa weapon that could end what we call the "civilized" world must be handled with ex­treme seriousness. It is an irreversible destructive force. Unlike conventional armies, missiles cannot retreat, be beaten, or stop killing. With the fate of Earth's in­habitants in the hands of a few world leaders, the public must get involved with the decision-making processes in dealing with nuclear arms. 
When hearing of the evacuation plans that are supposed to "save lives," the gallant Boy Scout motto, "Be prepared" comes to mind. 
In the case of a nuclear attack, it is a shame this innocent motto must be invoked once again for something much more important than than how to tie a square knot. 
I hope the world leaders are earning their merit badges. 
Gregory Swiercz is a senior English major who hailsfrom Hammond, Indiana. 

~., 

==Ihe_Obsen!er==
·:r. 
<. 
...~. 

Tbe Ob.renw is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Colle~c. It does not ncces~arily reflect the policies of the adm~nistratiou of either institution. The news i~ report­eJ as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Co.nmcntarics, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opimons on campus, through letters, ii encounged. 
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, lN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editorial Board 
l:'tlilor-in-(.'bie(. ..... Michal'! Monk .Uanagill,l.! l:'tlitor.. .... Ryan \'n lkrkmol·~ 1:'.\·t·otlil•t• .\'I'll'S l'tlilor.... . ..... 1\.dli l'lilll .\'.\1<: .\'t'II'S l:'tlilor.. . ... \brgarl'l l'oMllOl' .'iflm·ts l:'tlitor............ .................... ( :hri~ NtTdk~ l:'tlitorial.~ l:'tlitor . . . ..... Paul Md;inn 1-'t'tllllrc'.~ l:'tlitor .................................Tari Brown I'IHJ/o l:'tlilor __ .... Radu·l Blount 
Department Managers 
llllsillt'SS .\lt/1/tl,l!.t'r .. ..Tony Aidlo (.'onlmllt'r .... . ................ 1-:ril· Sdllllz .·ltlt•t•rti.~in8 .\ltlllil,l.!t'r.. .....Chri~ OwTn l'rodllt"lion .\lt/1/tlgt•r.. .. ..... :\laura Murphy Cirotlalimt .\lanaga.. ... Ray lll):lin SJ"slem.~ .\lantl,t.!t'r .......................... Brun· Oakky 
Founded November .l. 1966 


~--~---~---~--~-~--------~-~ --~-----·----­
The Observer Friday, September 17, 1982-page 15 


TAILCiATER'S SPECIALS 
:···················································· 
i H·Amm'S cr.-41 99i
i .,...CASE i 
:r=ROM THE LAND OF t 
* SKY-BLU~~Al~Ri, •
*******************.-* * ***********************.. 
LORD CALVERT 

Lord of tht C1n1di1ns 
------------...----------------------I 750ML 1.75ML I 

$9~9
Jack Daniels $7.99 Kamchatka VODKA $7.99 1 Bacardi Rum $5.99 Calvert GIN $8.99 
1 1.75 LITER
Tanqueray Gin $8.99 Canadian Mist $10.99 1 
7 Crown $5.99 Ushers SCOTCH $1.0.99 1 
Wild Turkey 86 $7.99 
---J 
. __,_________________ J· ROGET cr1 99 
American Ch~mpagne fl • 
CARLO ROSSI
(Spumonte, White, Pink Burgundy Dlllfl Willi and Aim ante) 
FLAVORED BRANDY .a..&.4-. $4~9 Apricot, Blackberry, or Cherry $5.99 
BIG 4 LITER 

Beer Specials iC Quart Specials iC Kegs 
~ ~ 
Miller Lite case $6.99 iC Old Milwaukee $1.49 ~ Budweiser $29.99 Michelob case $8.99 iC Budweiser $8.99 -i' ·Pabst s28.99 Coors 6-pak $3.49 iC Miller $8.99 iC Michelob $33.99 Old Style case . $6.99 iC Miller Lite $8.99 iC Generic $21.99 
Mickeys Malt case btl $7.49 ~ ~ Miller or Lite $29.99 
--~~---~---~-------------...------~------....--------~---..---~-~----------~----------..--------.... ---~--------~
----··-­
~~S tt0 W C ('li_s_E..._______F~ridiiayii,
seiipteiimbiieriit7iii,tii982--piiiageiiit6• 
The snmeness of being Cntholic 
unique would make a person a hero in my book, if the
A n old grad attended Sunday Mass in one of the old flhall chapels last week. His first words after leaving 
uniqueness were creative and demonstrated in some the chapel were: "I can't get over how alike they all are. 
way in which star differs from star in glory. A showoff They look alike. They dress alike. They act alike." 
could dye his hair purple for Lent, and it would seem "Was it any different when you here here?" I said. "I 
merely silly; there's nothing heroic about plum-colored looked at those same faces fifteen years ago. Students 
hair. The poet Wordsworth described the Lord's mot­from one generation to another seem interchangeable." 
her as "our tainted nature's solitary boast." She's a ''I'm disappointed by the sameness." he said. I never 
woman sinful human beings can be proud of John Paul realized that the campus was such an upper class Cath· 
II with his proclaimed willingness to die as a Pole against Russian tanks, is a pope I can be proud of
olic ghetto." A Catholic who lives his devotion to the Church can be a hero. How proud we were to hear that Bobby Ken­Rev. Robert Griffin nedy, as attorney general and senator, went to daily Mass. How happy we were with Rose Kennedy as an old, old woman, making her early morning appearances at the small church in Hyannis Port. With her money, she
letters to a lonely god 
could have turned out like Gloria Swanson. 
At Notre Dame, we have as local heroes people who "In addition to which," I said, "everyone's jogging." have lived within the tradition because they respected "You could profit by joining the joggers," he said. He it, yet have ventured to look outside the ancient institu­
is a doctor, just out of med school, in whom the gospel tion. Non-negotiable names on an honor's list are Frank offitness has inspired narrow views. O'Malley, Josephine Ford, Sister Madeleva,Joe Evans, 
"Excuse me while I light my cigarette," I said. Hesburgh, Burtchaell, Dunne. Whether you worship Smoking, as the ads say, is an adult decision, Its detrac­them or weep for them, you have to credit them for tors poison the minds ofchildren against adults who use listening to the beat ofa different drummer. They are tobacco. Group-think begins early, as you find when a certifiable originals on a campus where all the new six year old child, in the house where you are a guest, buildings are designed by Ellerbe in Belden brick. tries to take a lighted cigarette out ofyour hand. "You're Years ago, a young black freshman name Chris came poisoning my air," he complains loudly. to Notre Dame. He came because his brother, who was Its my air too, you little, pmoi blighter," I want to snap. a graduate, asked him to, and Chris loved his brother. "Poisoning your air would be a kindness to your He barely survived the first semster. He showed me his parents." journal. "Everything in the dorm repeats itself endless­
The mother, from whom you expect rescue. beams ly," he wrote. "The same curtains, the same furniture, with pride at her Wormwood boy. "In his health class," the same cinderblock, the same endless corridors she explains, "he saw a demonstration that nicotine can outside the door, the same beer signs, the same bar, the kill you. He took the lesson very much to heart." same sweaty smells. It leaves me depressed." Chris, in­
As a member ofa species ofsmokers endangered by fatuated with the poetry oflife, was a misfit. You should the insolence ofchildren, I'm not worried about the try to keep your misfits, if they will let you. They are not mass conformity ofstudents that expresses itself when necessarily heroes, but there is no sense in letting them they identify with their peer group by wearing similar perish from stifling. 
styles of jeans. The tragedy of Nazi Germany began Maybe the heroes deserving ofpraise are the students when the children were sent home from school to who survive the system with humor, knowing it doesn't propagandize their parents. I'm not indifferent to have to be this way: the long lines at chow, the football keeping t..,he world innocent for the young, but at age hysteria, the hypes ofexcellence, the proms with the six, even.ihe Moral Majority should be taught manners. sweetness ofa high school graduation, the liturgies with 
On Sunday evening, my doctor friend greeted my an endless diet of the music ofJesuits, the endless argu­cigarette with laughter that indicated his compassion ments over the heartlessness ofan administration that and concern. In the past, I've askt;d him for help in doesn't allow kegs. breaking an unwise habit. He cares enough to worry I met a PW woman who turned down a section party when he sees me leaning on the same old crutch. At in Flanner to read Dylan Thomas. She wasn't even taking Mass, I enjoyed giving him Communion. It is lovely to a course in Dylan Thomas. She's going to give up a foot­be a Catholic, at home with the Lord at the same table in ball game to go to Toledo, Ohio to see El Greco's. the family that faith brings together. Yet, I would hate to Whenever she tells me something wonderful that she's think we are nothing more than a Catholic ghetto. into, I want to hug her, if I knew she wouldn't think it There's no great harm in conformity, but there's no chauvinist and paternalistic. virtue either-Notre Dame should cherish the campus for such a person, I would give up smoking. Greater characters who have the courage to be unique. Being love no man has than this. 


NimH nnimntion: R plus 
"'r the average film critic, autumn very evident. The story is told every move she makes. This allowsFis the time ofyear when review­through the use ofanimal charac· the audience to sympathize with the ing movies becomes most like work. ters. The heroine, Mrs. Frisby, is a charater without forgetting the im· Fresh from the sea ofsummertime field mouse who is forced to seek portant fact that Frisby is a mouse. In 
blockbusters, we're faced with a the help ofthe rats ofNIMH to move the same way,Jeremy, the crow's deluge ofthe B-movies we've got to her house before the plow comes. klutziness may be exagerated but it battle our way through before The story focuses on the contlicts always operates within a set of before we reach the promised land within the NIMH group and the movements akin to a crow. The ofthe Christmas glut. We must suffer causes and effects of their artitkially whole concept behind NIMH (what the inhumanity ofwatching movies induced intelligence. The charac· would happen if animals attained we really don't feel like seeing. In ters are strongly ddlned through the human intelligence) makes it neces· 
tact, the only thing that keeps us use ofcelebrity voice characteriza­sary to fully establish the characters going is the challenge offinding the tions, a trick the Disney people have as animals without getting been taking advantage ofsince The anthropomorphically heavy· Jungle Book. Dom Deluise'sjeremy handed. the crow, John Carradine's Owl, and Unfortunately, as much as:V/MHDennis ChaUfour DerekJacobi's Nicodemus the rat takes advantage of the spectacle of stand out amongst a consistently vi­animation, it never really takes off as tal soundtrack. a real film. In its many domestic However, it's in the field ofanima­scenes, the storyline often diverges
movie review 
tion that Bluth is able to surpass his into the realm ofover sentimen­
teacher. NIMH makes full use ofall tality. As a main character, Mrs. "pleasant surprise." These are the the advantages inherent in animated Frisby doesn't seem strong enough little films which, by the grace of film. Intricate tracking shots, impos· to merit all the atrt:ntion that's given their unmarketable genres, do not sible in live-action tllm, become a her. She's something ofa wimp at 
receive the blessing ofa major staple of NIMH's action sequences. times. La.'itly, tht: tllm ends ratht:r studio push to save them from The animation camera is able to fol­tlatly with Mrs. Frisby giving us a 
cinematic limbo. low characters over a log, up a tree, second-hand account of the closure All of this is just an anticipated down a waterfall, and into a river I would rather havt: seen for myself response to those who might ques­without the grace ofan edit. Thus, All these holes would kill any con· 
tion my motives behind reviewing the spirit ofthe chase becomes all ventional film, but NIMH stands 
Don Bluth'sTheSecret ofNIMH, a G· the more intense. immune as a wondt:rful exercise in rated feature length cartoon Animation also allows exacting animation. The autumnal tllm critic concerning the exploits ofa bunch control ofsubject motion to the ex­blues were not entirely squelched ofrodents. Well, right now, the pick· tent that walking becomes not just a but I'm grateful for my exposure to 
ings seem mightyslim. In the case of means ofgettingfrom oneside ofthe this little film. Don Bluth's animation NIMH, however, this scarcity war. a frame to another, but a true study in expertise was quite a pleasant blessing. movement. Mrs. Frisby herselfsubt· surprise and I anxiously await the 
The Disney roots in NIMH are all Iy shifts from mouse to woman with_ worlds he wiii bring us in the future. 

M
uch to the surprise ofmost loyal Notre Dame students, staff, and 
alumni, there are more things to do on campus this weekend 
than spend it standing up, watching Bo Schembechler and Gerry 
Faust's boys go head to head while TouchdownJesus looks on. 
Ifyou desire to take a break from the traditional spectacle offoot· 
ball weekends, any one ofthe activities listed below can vary your 
hectic "Go Irish" routine. 
•MOVIES 

As a part ofthe continuing Social Concerns Film Series, the film, My Brilliant Career will be featured in the Engineering Auditorium tonight at 7 and 9:30p.m. Directed by Australian, Gillian Armstrong, noted for his two previous internationl cinematic successes, Picnic at Hanging Rock and Gallipoli, Career portrays the story ofa turn­of-the-century heroine who is rejected by her own family for her odd ways and awkward looks. She comes to stay with her relatives on their ranch in the isolated Possum Gully. She experiences the hardships offarming a stubborn terrain, its isolation from the culture, fashion and society ofothers her age, and, eventually, the at­tention of the inevitable eligible young man of the estate. Based on the autobiographical novelMy Brilliant Career published by Myles Franklin in I867, the film attempts to balance the young woman's choice between a secure and unrestrictive marriage and the greater freedom and loneliness ofan uncertain future as a writer. Armstrong's ability to use the Australian outback as the image of solitude and discovery renders a sensitive visual interpretation of the novel. 
The Friday Night Film Series presents That Obscure Object of Desire. Filmed in french and spanish, the english subtitles may detract from the humor of this film. Billed as a "darkly humorous satirical film," the film proposes that the last revolutionary act in modern times is to fall madly in love and not to have sex with the ob· ject ofthat love. A product ofthe present era and our societal preoc­cupation with sex, Director Bunuel's film is a striking comment on our paranoia. As with each film ofthe series, showtime is 7:30p.m. in Annenberg Auditorium. Admission is S2.00. 
Saturday night, after the mad extravagance of the Irish football game, release any latent inhibitions by stopping in the Engineering Auditorium and seeing the midnight movie,/t's a Mat/, Mad, :Had, Mad World.. Few movies have the distinction ofgathering as large a group ofHollywood's best and allowing them to expose the insanity that lies repressed within them in their own films. It is scheduled for midnight, but be there early. The S1.00 admission won't keep the crowd away. 
•ART 

Two exhibitions are opening tonight on the Saint Mary's campus. The Indiana Women's Caucus for Art, Third Annual Juried Exhibi­tion can be viewed in the Moreau Gallery Three. The show will run until October 15 during regular gallery viewing hours. In addition, 
H. James Paradis, the chairman ofthe Saint Mary's Art Department, will be showing a collection ofrecent kinetic sculpture. The exhibi­tion is dedicated to the 50th anniversary ofthe South Bend Sym­phony Orchestra. Paradis' exhibit will be in the Hammes Gallery. An opening reception for both shows is scheduled for this evening from ., to 9 p.m. Gallery hours are 9:30 to noon, I to 3 p.m. Monday through Friday and I to 3 p.m. on Sunday. 
•NAZZ 

This evening the Nazz will show again why it has been the focus of campus activity Thursday, Friday and Saturday evening. Mellow sounds will be heard from Steve Wimmer from 9 to 10 p.m. with The Wrecktors taking over with their craziness at I 0 until whenever. If you need a breather before the parties and pace of a football weekend set in, have a seat, for ten minutes or two hours. and find out why the Nazz has the reputation for tlnding the "liveliest" acts on campus. 
•MUSIC 

Indiana University at South Bend will present a program of clarinet and dance tonight in the IUSB Recital Hall at 8: I 5 p.m. Featuring the talents of Burton and Celeste Beerman. the concert will incorporate the electronic m~sical techniques of Burton Beer­man juxtaposed with Celeste Beerman's original dance interpreta­tions. Admission for this is S1. 
•OUTLOOK 

Looking towards the beginning ofthe week, when the dust has 
settled and the Wolverines have gone home (hopefully, with a one in 
the loss column), various movies can offer any weary partier the 
chance to reorient into the academic mode. 
The Monday Night Film Series I will be featuring Touch ofEui/, a 
1958 Orson Welles movie. Welles investigates the crossingofboun­daries: between countries, races, sexes, and finally, between law and justice. Lights go out at 7 p.m. and rise in time to begin viewing the Alfred Hitchcock film, Strangers on a Train as a part of the Monday Night Film Series II. Adapted from the Patricia Highsmith novel, an 
accidental encounter on a train suggests an exchange ofmurders. Stranger will begin at 9 p.m. Both films will be shown in the Annen­berg Auditorium ofthe Snite Museum ofArt and admission is S2.00. 
The Observer Friday, September 17, 1982 -page 17 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­
day through Friday, 10 a.m·. to 4:30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next tssue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, 
etther in person or through the mail. 





Classifieds 
NOTICES  WANTED: Two (2)tixfortheAnzona foot­ball game. Call Dave at 234-64 73 after 6.  HELP! I NEED 1 OR 2 PURDUE GAS! CALLJILL284-5149  Wanted: Two tiCkets for the Michigan game Saturday. Call259-5356.  CCD TEACHERS/teacher-aides for 7th grade thru htgh school students are needed for f hour on Sunday AM at St.  Happy Birthday to Nettles- Alumni Hall's Graig  
Wanted: 2 Purdue Tickets. Call Mike at  MICHIGAN  STATE  TICKETS  Mary's Church,  Niles.  MI.  Call  VSO  - Just a short note to thank you for the  
234-3224  AVAILABLE  PHONE  2334051  7 -9PM  HELP! Dad·s a Purdue Alumni, Ststers a  5293.  greatest year of my life. Happy Anniver­ 
THRU MSU ALUMNI CLUB.  Purdue Freshman. Need 1 Student and 2  sary to the man I love and appreciate  
WANTED: Energetic; eager people for  G. A. tickets for the game. Call Monica at  Volunteer TUTORS needed for Korean  ROYAlly!  
general office assistance, Saturdays, f -5,  FOR SALE: 2 Purdue tickets. Call Dave  2184  children, ages 9 & 11, who have limited  GINGER  
IMPROVE YOUR GRADES! Research catalog-306 pages-10,278 toptcs-Rush $1.00 to Box 25097C, los Angeles. 90025. (213) 477-8226 IS YOUR HAIR GETTING IN THE WAY OF YOUR STUDIES?? CALL MICHOLE FORA HAIRCUTTODAY!ONLY$4 FOR GUYS AND $6 FOR GIRLS BEST TO CALL AFTER 3 AT 7850 .  5-9, and Sundays 9-1, 1·5, starting Sept. 25. $3.50 per hour--pick your own shtft. Close to campus· but must have own transportation. Call 277·5448 and ask for Diane. FOR SALE  3673 ME TOOtll ltke everyone else, I need Michigan· tickets for my parents. PittaM call Mike"at 272-5214. NEED 2 GA"S for MIAMI game (WILL PAY · TOP $) CALL LISA x2244. Help, please  6 GAs for sale to Purdue game. Call SMC 4421 PLEASE! Desperately need four (4) Stu­dent or GA·s for Miami! Will top All other oHers... just try me!! Call Kevin -6831. Ca.IINOWt NEEO TWO OR MORE ARIZONA TICK­ETS!!!l! PLEASE CALL MICHELE AT 3793 IF YOU CAN HELP  English-speaking ability. Call VSO-5293. GIRLS NEEDED A high school aged girl or older (but not older than 21) is needed to be a hve·in maid for a 6-man sutte in Grace. If in­terested in many, many fringe benefits, stop by 2-C Grace for apllications. BOSTON CLUB MEETING MONDAY Sept 20th 7:30 LaFortune ELECTIONS  Chancing Fnendshtp: No we won't say ·no· The hour draws near and the weekend is here. The time is set for 9:30. But that's too late tor such an important date.Lers try for the huddle after the rally. XO Women in Waiting. Turtle You crazy shellfish!! Welcome back to  
WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM $2995 64K Microcomputer,letter quality printer, word processing software, CP/M, Basic,  • WANTEQ: 2 GA"s FOR THE NO--MIAMI GAME. CALL J!'FF at 1165  N~~d'2.GA tix to PENN ST. Call Uz 284­5166  for officers w~l be held. Please attend. Don"t forget kicl<off HAPPY HOUR FRIDAY.  the swamp of So. Bend. Here·s to our tnple and super football weekendS. Hap­PY to have ·ya, RabandLion  
Call277-7720 CARPROBLEMS?? I AM A QUALIFIED MECHANlC WITH LOTS OF EXPERIENCE AND LOWER  WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM, $2995. 64K Microcomputer. letter quatity printer, word processing software, CP/M, Basic. Call277-7.720.  •...•......... t ................................................. HEY-rnf'so desparate tor any Michigan ticket! YoiJ got it, I want it, and l"ve got money to burn!! call crazy Cindy at 2948 if you like lbtsa bux.  For sale: one student season football ttck­et. ~-4547onlybetween 8-10p.m. FOR SALE -Pair NO season tix. '234-0405.  BOSTON CLUB ELECTIONS MON Sept. 20, 7:30 LaFortune. Important meeting for all from MASS. Don't forget KICKOFF HAPPY HOUR FRIDAY. TODAY 4-? KICKOFF HAPPY HOUR  Mermaid, Is it true you netted one at the lake?. Fisher of Men  
RATES THAN ANY GARAGE!! CALL TODAY FOR A FREE ESTIMATE JOHN AT 1852  FOR SAllE: 2 MICH GA TIX. CALL 1·314­862-5748  •. WOW./ HAVE MUCH MORE MONEY  FOR SALE 2 Mich GA & 2 Purdue GAti<:k­ets.Kim, 2al!-t9t7. .... ··············· ......  BOSTON CLUB Look for MASS flag at CAMPUS VIEW across !rom pool BOs­TON CLUB.  
THAN SENSE, ALONG WITH A PRESS­ Needed!! 4 PURDUE GAs or 2 ARIZONA  ......................  Today, a Tanmaster comes of age! Jef .  
ING NEED FOR 2 MIAMI GA'S. CALL  GAs.. $$$TOM 1723..  NEED 2 GA"s FOR PURDUE GAME Call  lery L. Undholm celebrates his 21st  
-r;;;;····:;;,·ig~rn~····· i98Q·····POLK-10  KATIE AT 2Q48.  Norb at 8788.  biflhday. So tonight, come join in the  
CREATIVE .CAMPUS ADVERTISING IS YOURS! Posters, hand-outs, Invitations. etc. designed professionally and cheaply. Contact.Polty at 8050. Spjlcializing in cat­hgraphy and all types of print. ATIN MOBSTERS! lOst atthe Commons: rude boy Levi Jackel. if found. call SULLY orTIMti9* · THANKS .10«, AHDfiEA, MID DIAHE FOR 11A1CJNG MY BIRT1tOAY VERY SP£CIALI GL£HN The OBUO 24-hout phone tine is now open. Call 239-0BUO with your campus  AUDIOPHILE LOUDSPEAKER SYS· TEM,new x:-Overs and · woofers. ············ .......... PpwemanrJling .capaCity of 200 Need PURDUE GAs or Student tickets. watts. Price $385 orbest otter (.-$650) $$$.CaR 287-3538 after 6. Call after~ p.m. 272-2641.· ......:.: ...................:,_, ..................-~ ....... Miami Miami lltliMIIusiio.iiOK.i&;;ghi:~.--~;;;.~i;d 1nMd THREE 1/luthmt rickets lor Miami or ERASMUS ~KS. Tli8S:Sun. 12-6. 1 B>'l {lelting nothing tor Clrrislma. 1027 E.. Wayne. ·One B4oc1< .South of Please help me, and fH give )IOU all myEddy-~son tntersectio"h. money. ·Call Jeb at 1130. Merry .........;.._;..-:...........,;..: .....:..·~·········--· Clttistma. .....~...............~··· 2 Purdue tickets, student or GA. nHded. Wilting to trade. 233-8163 ,TICKETS Family coming for Miami gllffie on Ocl. 9. "NEED 4 Tix. Please ctlll Marl< al1177 and name your price. ...::...........·...­.............~····~.;.I NE.EO 4 GA P.UAOUE Tiic 81G $$$ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . .................... .  50 YARD-LiNE! I have 2 GA"s tor MICHI­GAN.tor sale on the 50 yard line. Best of· fer will get them: Also, will negotiate single ticket sale. Call Mike at 277-2012. DON'T WAt.Tl -NEEOEo":·2 tiCkets ior Purdue game. Call Rich at x321Qor x3213 FOR SALE: PURDUE,IMAMI,PENN T)X.239-7139 . NEE02PENNST. GA"SWILL PAY$$$$. CALL RICH x46S2 .................... . ....... I HAVE MIAMI GA"S WILL TRADE FOR PURDUE GA"S CALL MARK 1067 HAVE 2 PURDUE GA"S, BUT NEED 2 PENNSTATEGA"S.CALLPATAT 1068. SIX MICHIGAN G.A."S tor sale. Calt8736.  ··~·-:., ........ BABYCAKESI! ·HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!! flOVEYOU!!I! WHAT A GREAT WEEKEND!II!! ALWAYS YOURS--­. . · POOPSIE ·--··--··· ············'" PITTSBURGH CLUB TAILGATER, SAT SEPT 18,3:00beloreMiCh. game. Fr.._10 Pittsburghers "(Alumni and Students). ~etd, look fOr Pitt Club Signs. Spans. by NO Club of pgn. SOUTH PHILLY LOVES THE IRISH!!! .........-.......-.............. .............. PHELIM DEAN IS 21 TOOAV! WISH THIS SOUTH PHtllY GUY HAPPY. BIRTHDAY OUT ON GREEN FlELD OR CALL8245:HEHATEST.OCELEBAAT£ ALONE! .  rituals ot the Tanmaster tradition. The Tanmasters and Bob Lobster Dear Nancy Welcome Back! I Love You! Mike PERSISTENCE PAYS OFF, PAT!! ........ ...... SIEJIIORSI CLASS OF •aSENJOA$11 ..PORTANT NOncE Let's get on ABC primelime. as we spell "NO" in our IQOibaft sections. Two mas,... gr-. tener, in a sea of gold. 16 Seniors will be passmg out mo<elhan 2000 piaC8s of ,.,.... Take yours and pass them along. Green litst then 9Qid. keep the let· ters straight. Watch for the Signal from the cheefleaders and then hold up your paper as high as you can.  ..  
complaints. l. LOST/FOUND  CALL 1364 Nii"eo..4.t:.iicii".\j:ii:i..2.PiJR()iJE...G".t:·s . WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR! KEVIN 1770 . .. ............................ Help! Mom 1 Oa<l.aFe-ng tor•o:lir t.st game in 4 years! I'll buy or trade lof 1 or 2 studelll or GA MICHIGAJII till. Pte~ call  NEED 2 ga·s tor PURDUE GAME--CALL SHOWER BAUER 284-5201 F;·~:iN.O.-Mtc~~-GA'C~i-ART~i. 2117 Trade: Purdue-Ar~zona student tix cash tor any Miami tixor Arizona"GA'scafi.Mike orScon1160  ....:.. ~., ...~ .....:.....,,.,..... MIAMI TIX ANO HOTEL ROOMS AVAIL CALL LARRY 277-3306. ................................................................. Need Michigan iicl<ets. Student or GA: CALLCHOW 8810 NEEDED: .2 GA"S FOR MIAMI. CALL BRIAN , 2187.  Mr. • Mrs. Kasson ~and Bob), Welcome to Notre Dame! love, TereH N.O. Votleybah vs. $1. Mary·s Sal. lOAM mthe ,_.CC~. RING THOSE BELLES! ·N.D. Males--GET A CLUE! The L•5 Society ,.;tt hold its firSt mftling  DID l HEAR CORRECTLY???? AN OS­SERVER SOFTBALL GAM£!!!??? WILL ORTITAKE A DIVE? CAN RYAN CATCH MORE THAN A DRtNt<? lfiiLL THE FIELD HNALLV MOVE OUT WHEN AIELLO BATS? CAN RACHEL PHOTOGRAPH THE FLIEET-FOOTED IIOOSE? MOVE OVER PACIOREK.  
Jimat32H  and ptOgram on Tuesday Sept  21  in  HERE  COMES  DZIEDZIC!  Fo..  
...........~..~~----·----...~.. lost Gold cross on fOld Chain. If lound. caUDon.*-305t · LOST!  ..............................:...............!''''"""."............ FOR. SALE: 4-6. ··f\1ichigan tict<ats in vanous ·~tions. Call D.... •at 3673 anytime. · .......................""..._. ........ ··;··~·. ··:· .. ........  I"M A DEAD MAN HI don't come up with 3 MIAMI GAs and/or 4 ARIZ. G~. Help saw my ..,Y valuable ($$$$).neck! ctlll PHIL at1295~ even if you only_ ha..a tor Z.  WILL TRADE I STUTICK&CASHFOR2 PUROUE.GJ.·s caD 3197 ......,................... I *W: 4 NMtl STATI! Tilt AM WL· LING TO '1'IWlll! 11E11 JIIOft 4 -­TUt. COIITN::r S11IPHEJI. MOl .  LaFortune little ThS-at 7:30 pm. Come and find out why we humans tMed .fO coloniZe and .indusiriatize SPACE and how~ canbedOne NOW!8e There. ....~···•:.~;.,.......... Oilfan 221: Rumor has it that you l:Qn·  ANSWERS ANO AN ADVENTURE IN THE OBSERVER'S FAVORITE AMER!CANPASTIME(no.~isn"t3-s starting with ·s·) RUN TO MOREAU FIELD TOOAY AT 4:30. OR TAUt TO THE CHIEF chip-MOM(.  
WiN the person wna wlked.away from .ct11 flaof STAHFOOO (an;,..,_ lloor, by the way) •hmy targa.IIUitlld euu JINU rewm jf 1o me at 431 Stanford or Call 1765. 1'Mhk you.  DESPEAATE1 WILL GfYE uf. MY FIRST BORM .SON FOR ~ MIAMI GA"S CALL DENNIS;~­ .......................... . Michigan studenttict<ellof ~-Catt.tolln at277-1159.  Young, ambitious male~ a ... DATE. #lilt It,.,.... ­lrim, )"1101 .t-lhalIre . lou  · tact.ed 11)8 pseudO -fiSS!!! Why not contact us1? Hint: Were on.fllird floor· ~an~r.~-.~~-~~ ........... Waldo out 8lair f9oll. Cllllly Flick is after  fliES) STUOBiT·~· TiCKifjj WLUNGTOcM~T04m -~-"). CAU-U77.  
Need.lour Michigan tickets. Call John at  • beCiwaiiOf lllltlotballllcats  yout~P.Yt!:~:8.issupergreat!t  .(· ·· ······--··-··­..... , ............ .,.........  
LOST:. A gold, nylon wallet." Tuesctay night, in 1hS -.icinity at UIFor· tune. ~... me a IN ...._ .net pleaM return Hto MM! a1 ll77. Aawan:tlof a return. · o;;;·~:::·;;-..~;·;,; fhS~oftice  ..............~·· ...··:··~·~···:•···•........-..··::"''"'''""'' FOR StilE: SMICit Giia& 1STUD.'nc: CAU TON 1101. ' ~-~-Fc;·s;;·:.-;·ii;:··~  277-1759 ' Need 2 0. 4 student or GA 1icke15 10 lhe Miami 9.... lof vi8lling r~. PleaM call~at-34. ""*•ltiOnaltv wreS1ting br-demands 2(TWOY1'UAOUETIII.-GAorSTU06tliT. Callf>Am-4232 (lhalilll yo~~-mayw mine.) ,·,eCi;.;;;ciTriX.SSJOii·m-tll4  Head 2 or 4 Sftldant or GA"s 10 Purdue ot ~­CAlL.DAYE AT 6139 ·{~sJ  ti.-ppy~;o;;;;; iiiiACC 530! ~!ion g11o11 writer. aony 1 mined on ~yniglllate o· dock, t saw you· IIWugh, ......~ cMctted -.. jeans anctwtoite_.,nil .a-s.s-tme,­plea. TonigN. rm lilleere. ThS ~of • (,;nw ChMka) say U GOaOW! . .............................. ..1--· ......... ·-·" ~· '  SHAKESPEAI'IEANS UNITE .Sllr•••-Otl,ll~ · Monday at 7:00PM . 'at lite Wilson Commons Room ofO"HIItaGt-Gr-... T_,.,..,....(OII.....ICI). E~.n~ an4AIInlshmenls~ ....._....welcome!  

 ..............········· ......~ ........,;.~  .fiRING IEWSPAPEAS TO TIE GAME  
F~~.-2~~-~-Atso caunll'y ~~GuM. 10 mins. 11om NO. Call277-3604 or 2t&-0955. Room. stwe ~:·-~~·2·· ~N.D. Call Mrs..Cooper 272-3004 or 272-7$18 after 12 noon.  N£er;·:;wo·i0i'MOA£1·~~ ·,:~x; Gr~~--N.O. o-ebalora.'ClllfJohn 0atan at 3137. .......:.-...~ .............-..~.:............... .....:.... :............;:.....:.. NMd Puldw GA"s. 219-7!WO ....:.. :..·..~...... . . Ne4id Micb. ~tud8ntl Purdue Gl<s 28ll·7640 . . .  ........_................. Yes. __,Mictlicanlicllels-for Ule a1 a lairly _..,. llfi!:e. Alumni 11r tich INfltl1l$ Dr-·studentsWho wiSh 10 ­!Nis IMstoric-and'-.,,._.can · call t8SIIof purchase. W621111e_.....,.,. P.S ···F~;···~ Se\len MiehiCan lickat  ....................~ ......................... JIOUiffTYl:NEStt Want to ltiiOCm8CI in 1hS etas,_,., Want .10 1111 fleh7 Want 1D be successful? ¥or -inlo, Mile-to: JOE CMINELL As­. SOCIATES, 2e Dt~ ~. laurel Springs, NJ.OID21. Sales "'f'S. Wanllld. ATTENTION lONGiSlANDERS: KiCk !Ill the~ season tight with this years lir&l LONG ISLAND ClUB HAPPY HOUR. -Fri., S.pt. f7, 3:30-7. &din lounge. Be there..  ·TO READ WHilE UU TMI;S THE FIELD. ~YERINE.S ARE 80AfNG1!! ·o--·'Raftlh· -Another~ is...,.. us. Do try to ....., it _,INa WHI<end; won·t yo~~7 For us aa-as Cteln. ·JACK ···············•········ The Mat<ing of 8fj M.D. 18112.Thanl<s for your lime .ana expertise.Mitch! I.O.U. Sambuca or ttia equivilenl!  to an ..-ymous AtW!Ian aa--: Don"! yolO wiSh that ··CaiJomia turnbiH iniOfhS sea.·· O...y • Com!Mny: Keep up the good_, J.R.F.C. OIUENTATIOH MEETING (Mw and old members) 1/21112, 7:00 La Fortune BaH Roam open 10 1he women of the NO/SMC cornmunit~·'lhS more the merrier!  
.......................  ................... ..  pact<agedeat lor $1100.00, ahighdepqsi!  .. ...................  .............. .~ ..... ;.'i'......  
A:MAI..E · ROOMIIAATE NEEDEO for Notre · Dame Ave· AciiJ. Available immediately-tease lhN X-mas · •t . mJmanrh. Call 1111-3 ·  WILL PAY $35. FOR MICH STU TICK JOHN8172 ' . . ... .........f••~.-·--:'··:~-.... .............. . .. DESPERATELY NEED 5 (3&2) TIX FOR  far return Qllickets, i.e. an eighteen year atg virgin, must be left fOr COllateral, caH \858for your tiCkets-· ·HELP!!! I need 1 or 2 GA or Stu Till's to  IIOURITY: NO OUTLET .· ..... Almost tunny .... TOP 20 TIME TUNNEL, STILL ON WSNO AM 64 EVERY SUNDAY FROM .6-SPM . . ·•  b. smerch 
MIAMI GAME.· CALL COLLECT (312) 1161-0423. · · · ·  Miami. Money tallcs. My walk!! ts shout­ing. Charlie x1027  .. . .......... Noble Roman·s is now tailing applications  
WANTED ······'-·'""''''"'''' ................._........::.......:.. NEED AlOE To North NJ Any Weel<end KENU05 . . OESPERA TE:. Neild. ride. 10 LITTLE ROCt< SEPT 25 -.nd. will sl)are  Neet:i Purd.;·~·;i; S~t hi. Call Bud. at 255:53<48 · ..... . ............ ,........... Need i Putitue.Tieket! Call D~ et 1744.······'··:···..-~.........,:~,.,.· DESPeAATE!11i£ED2GAsFORMIAMt. WILL PAY! CAU. SLISAN 61!13. ..............~ .•..._..........:.. Need Man\r MICHIGAN GA TIX Pleil$8 caDTom;at1171.  Need Purdue Student and GAs -Phil ·17&4 ~-?Ucii~P~vMoctis$c.~ii·2:;:;: 752927770572560226 ' ''" , NEEO 2 GA"S f'OR.MiCH..OAVE..277­0955 . .  for part-lime poSitions. Wort< sche<lute . Cat! be adjuSted to your class schadUII: Day lind night positions open. Wa.tars, waitresses must be 21. Apply in J)ll t f$011. . · HAPPY BtRTHDAY, YELLOW ROSE! TEXAS SMOUlD BE PROUD TO HAVE PRODUCED SUCH A St.OOM!N" BEAUTY! BLOW MY BUMBLIEWEEOS. BUT i£rs CELEBRATE! WEE·HAAA! TARI  
usual expenses. can leave Thur or Fri mom. Call Gtag 234-2456.  ....._,_. ..,., ......• , .... _........ 'anMIIiPIII!dutGA'Lf~LfA$EIHICall  FOR SALE: 2 MiCh GA"s. Will trade lor 2 .Penn Sl GA"s or best orter. Call Chris at 1181 "  Tot~CUTESTGUY;,;·BAHSTONthope ybu.haw a ""WICKED Gooo·· -end!!! rm glad yo~~:• here. roe missed ~!!!  
Wilting rq ucrifice vtRGIIIIITY/money (in tftat order) for 2 PURDUE lilt. ·BE· CKY/CWRtSt708-Q7 . :.  .1ot1n Higgins et 217-4111 (nip~&) or 2»4313. Mel L&A. A MESSAQell ...... 1............. . stud season lb tic tor sale, beSt offer at  .FOR SAllE: More Mich. ti1s. Call Dave 3673. need 2 MICh. GA"s Galt Jim at 3342  G;;;;;;,i~rt.ewH6~·;;;·iNov·~pi 29? I need a ride anct wi 1 II help in ex­penses. Call4357 as soon as possible .  
1420  WM~eet:  
WILL TRADE 2 POROUE G.A."S,FOR 2 MIAMI GA"SCALLKEVIN 1629  WANTED DESPERATEI.,Y--1 PURDUE STUD OR GA. PLEASE CALLWILL 282­ I NEED 1 PURDUE TICKET. G.A. OR STUDENT. CALLDICI<AT 8712.  Three student tickets lor Millffii. Papa i$ in the Mafia and can get you what ever you need... Call Jeb at 8630.  
....... I need 5 sates .people FAST lor 'thts weekend. II you·d rather have rrlore  1026 . NEED 2 PURDUE GA WILL PAY BIG  wanted desperately! 2 g a tix to purdue. will pay bux deluxe. matt 277-4573  aosroN cilia tiA"PPv.HciuR roi:i.-'v across from CAMPUS VIEW POOL 4-?.  
money 10 spend partying next week call Jerry at 277-6496. You will not necessan­ly have 10 work during the game.  BUCKS CALL KEviN AT 1996 NEED TWO MIAMI GA"S 2255 GREG  DESPERATELY NEED GA TIXS FOR  HUN A year today Stnce that first friendly date. Things have really progressed!  
MICH. PETE.232-1466  I LOVE EWE!  

l~o~~~~~~r~i~e~s~==============F=ri=~=y=,s=~rel~l~l9m-v•ts


By The Obsen•er and The Associated Press 
Notre Dame basketball greats Adrian Dantley, Kelly Tripucka and Austin Carr, and 15 other former Notre Dame players will be returning to the ACC this tomorrow to participate in the Logan Center Benefit Basketball Game. The game is being or­ganized by Notre Dame assistant basketball coaches Gary Brokaw and john Shumate, both former Irish All-Americans who will play m the game. Tip-offis set for one tomorrow afternoon just seven hours before Notre Dame opens its 1982 football season against Michigan at Notre Dame Stadium. Tickets are 56 in the lower arena and 54 for upper arena. -The Obsen.1er 
ND Hang Gliding Club is being organized. Call 
Ted Toerne at 287-7717 for information. -The Observer 
A Pep Rally for the Michigan football game will be held 
tonight at 7 in Stepan Center. Coach Faust and Irish tri-captains Phil Carter, Dave Duerson, and Mark Zavagnin are the expected speakers. -The Obsen'er 
Fellowshlp ofChristian Athletes will hold 
their next meeting on Monday, September 20, at 7 p.m. in the St. Ed's lounge. All are invited to attend. -The Obsen,er 
'Wake Up the Echoes,' a brand new Notre Dame 
football highlight film produced by the renowned NFL Films, will be 
.. 
shown to the public this Sunday, September 19, in the Library Auditorium. The 50-minute film will be shown each hour from 3 to 9 
p.m. and spans the history ofIrish football from 1888 to the present. 
-The Observer 

Quillgepe 'g Notre Dame 
ITALlAR-AMEKICAR FOOD 
Pizza Sandwiches
S-1230 weekdays S-110 weekends 

1713 ~LaSalle 
211D's 

233-0951 private party roomavailable required 
The Notre Dame Rugby Club has its second 
match of the fall season Saturday against Monclair (N.J.) State. The "A" squad will kick off the action at 11 a.m. on the fields behind Stepan Center. Last week at Dayton, Ohio, the squad opened its season by winning two of its three matches against the Flyers. The Irish triumphed in the"A" match, 1_H).john Goebelbecker and Mike Butler combined for one four-point score, while Brian Moynihan scored another on a solo breakaway. Steve Schneider rounded out the scoring with a three-point penalty kick and a two-point conver­sion kick. Matt O'Donnel's four point score and two point conver­sion and Tom Tex's three-point penalty kick weren't quite enough for the "'B" team as they lost, 12-9. The Irish "C" squad finished the afternoon with a I0-3 conquest. Tom Reidy scored six points on two penalty kicks, while Mike Colgan scored the other four points on a breakaway pass from jim Higgens. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's tennis teamlost their match to But­
ler yesterday by a 7-2 margin in Indianapolis. Maureen Fitzgerald and Ama Huber were winners tor the Belles as their record fell to 2-1. The team faces DePauw this afternoon in further action on the campus of Butler University. -The Observer 
The ND Ski Team will hold an intra-squad ~oftball game Sunday at 3:30 pm. Team members are asked to meet outside Gate I0 of the ACC. -The Observer 
The ND Women's Cross Country Club opens its season Saturday at the Roadrunner Relays hosted by South­western Michigan Junior College. -The Observer 
ND-SMC Communications and Theatre Presents the friday night film series TONIGHT 
Sep/e"O" 17 

Th•t ObscuNI Object of Dealre (1977)lUIS Bunuel. Septembsr I0 Ff, ce. color. 100 m1n 
In Frencn and Span1sl'! w11h English subt1lles In thiS darkly humorous sat1r1cal 111m. Bunuel lollows out the surrealiStiC prem1se that the last revolutiOnary act 1n mOdern limes IS to be madly 1n 
love-and not to have sex w•th the obtect olthat love 
7:30pm Annenberg Aud., Snite Museum 
Admission $2.. 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Eut  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
St. LOUIS  81  63  563  
Ph1ladelph1a  80  65  552  15  
Montreal  79  66  545  2.5  
Pittsburgh  77  68  531  4.5  
Ch1cago  63  83  432  19  
New York  57  86  399  23.5  
Wut  
Los Angeles  83  64  .565  
Allanla  80  00  548  2.5  
San Franctsco  77  69  .527  5.5  
San D1ego  74  73  503  9  
Houston  68  78  466  14.5  
Ctnctnnatt  54  92  370  285  

Yesterday's Results New York 9, Montreat4 San Franc1sco 9, San D1ego 3 
Today·aGamea 
51 LOUIS (Rasmussen 0-0 and Mura 11-10) at New York (Lynch 3-6 and Holman 0-0), n. ChiCago (Martz 9·8) at Montreal (Gullickson 11-11 ). n. Allanta (Camp 11·8) at c,nc1nnat1 (Soto 11-11). n Pittsburgh (RhOden 10-12) at Philadelphia (Cartton 20·8), n 
Houston (D1P1no 1·1) at Los Angeles (Reuss 16-10). 
n. 
San D1ego (Dravecky 4-3) at San Franc1sco (Laskey 12·10), n 
AMERICAN LEAGUE East 
w L Pet. GB Mtlwaukee 86 60 589 Balttmore 85 61 582 t Boston 80 66 548 6 Detro1t 73 71 .507 12 New York 73 73 500 13 Cleveland 71 73 493 14 Toronto 68 78 466 18 
West Kansas City 84 62 .575 California 82 64 .562 2 Ch1cago 78 67 538 5.5 Seattle 68 77 469 15.5 Oakland 60 86 411 24 Texas 58 88 .397 26 Mtnnesota 53 93 363 31 
Ye-y's Raaulta Texas 8, Minnesota 2 Toronto 2, California 1, 12 innings Baltimore 3, New York 1 Detroit4, Boston 2 Chicago 6, Oakland 3 Seattle 4, Kansas City 2 
Today's Games California (John 12-t1) at Toronto (Clancy 12-14), n. Cleveland (Sutcliffe 12-6) at Baltimore (0. Martinez 14-11),n. Boston (Denman 2-1) at Detort (Petry 14-7), n. New York (Wever 0-0) at Milwaukee (Cauldwell 15­11),n. Oakland (Codiroti 0-0) at Chicago (Dotson 11-11), n. Kansas City (Splitorff 9-9) at Minnesota (Havens 6­11),n. Texas (Smithson 2-2) at Seattle (Stoddard 1-1), n. 

will autograph his book 
RALLY! 
Saturday, Sept. 18 3to5. 
HAMMES NO BOOKSTORE 
2nd floor Book Dept. 
• Store hours for Sept. 18 only: 11 to 7:30.
i: i 
------~----------------­

TheObserver 
Cross country 
Irish open. season at home 
By NAT RICH 
Sports Writer 
As most of the Notre Dame stu­dent body looks forward to tomor­row night's opening kickoff against Michigan, there's a smaller group of athletes and their followers who await an earlier starting gun. 
The Notre Dame cross country team opens its season this afternoon at 4 with a dual meet against Ohio State. 
The squad, returning after a season of unfulfilled expectations, looks to be one of the strongest oC:oachJoe Piane has had since his ar­rival at Notre Dame in 1975. Led by four runners of nearly equal ability, including two Notre Dame record holders, the Irish are confident that they can open the season fast and finish it faster. 
Based on past performances, 
senior co-captain Marc Wozniak 
continuedfrom page 24 
on a penalty shot which just caught the left corner of the cage. Accord­ing to Bishop Grasso had spent a great deal of time the day before working on her penalty shot. 
Grasso's score spurred on the Irish even more and they dominated play the rest of the way. Hope Colege did keep up the pressure un­til the end, but senior goalie Debbie Rachl stopped any idea of a come­back. · 
Bishop praised the plav ofGrasso. 
would appear to lead the pack, but the three others aren't far behind. Junior Andy Dillon, who holds the three-mile record ( 13:51 ), and sophomore Tim Cannon have been running very well, as has the two­mile record holder, junior Ralph Caron (8:51 ). 
Wozniak earned a leadership role 

in his first season by placing either 
first or second among his Irish 
teammates in every race last year. 
Cannon surprised many people as a 
freshman with some exceptional 
performances. He was one of only 
two people to compete in every 
meet. 
-Cross country scoring is based on 
a team's top five finishers, so the 
Irish have one spot that remains to 
be filled. "Any one of our top four 
can win on a given day," says Piane, 
"but we're really looking for 
someone to step into that fifth spot. 
It's very important if we're going to 
... Rebound 
"She keeps hustling no matter what," said the coach. 
"We weren't used to the quick in­terceptions that Hope made use ofin the first half," observed Ray. "The first two teams we played this year reallly didn't have as much skill as Hope College. But once we found their game we just started to come back and give them a little bit of their own medicine." 
The team will next play a Blue­Gold game tomorrow at 11 a.m. On Tuesday they will play an away game with Taylor as they try to keep their record perfect for the season. 
NO'S Specializing in Prime Rib, Seafood, Steaks and 

tie 

serving your favorite cocktails. I fep OPEIf 12:00pm Sat., Sept., 18 for liD's First game.
i02St.WMnlt Soatla IIIII !AKIIlG B.ISIB.VA!IOilS 232-2414 !lOW
Banquet rooms available with option to create your own menu. Serving dinner at Spm Mon. -Fri. 

~ Writers, Layout, 
\ Artists, and Photographers 
~ are invited to Scholastic's 
i first organizational meeting
i on Sunday. Sept. 19, at 1:00 p.m 
\ at the Scholastic Ottice, Third floor, 
~ LaFortune. 
\ We look forward to working with you. 
~ 
~ 
Questions?? Call239-7419 or 239-4236. 
i 
····fit'· 
be really successful. It looks like John Adams, Tim Bartrand or Tim Novak will wind up in that spot." He also noted that freshmen Larry Erickson and Tom Warth have been running well. 
"This should be a good year for us," continues Piane. "Last year we started very fast and then tailed off, but that won't happen this year. If we can get consistent performances from a fifth runner and stay away from injuries, we'll have a com­petitive program that Notre Dame can be proud of 
Preparing for a school like Ohio State is never easy. "They're a Big Ten school, and any school of that stature is going to have a good program," says Piane. "We took them by surprise last year, but I don't think we'll be able to do that again this year. If everyone runs up to their capabilities we should do well." 
Friday, September 17, 1982-page 19 
SUNNYSIDE BEVERAGES, INC· Wholesale Beer Distributor 
18 Brands of beer in kegs Also cups, ice, taps, and tubs 
SHASTA POP $4.99 case 
Open till5:00 PM on Saturday of the Michigan Game 

Old Fashioned Home Cooking At Its Best! 
*If You Are Looking For Something Unique and Different *Homemade Pies, Breads, Salads, & Rolls *'!Q Foot Salad Bar 
*Nightly "All You Care To Ear Specials" Choose from Roast Beef, Turkey, Chicken, BBQ Rib>, Frog Legs & Lake Perch, Swiss Steak, 
*Open Menu Always Available  Ham  
·~ '<_:or  *Elegance, Good Prices -850 Seats "_Souvenirs, Gifts & Homemade Goodies  

;;~ ~;..~~Sat._!!lorningbrunch-75 items under $5°0-8 am. 2 pm"" '~. r<"'.. ' . we will accept your reservations to guarantee · · immediate sea 
Open Daily II A.M.-'J P.M. • Saturday 8 A.M.-9 P.M. 
Closed Sundays-Except Easter, Mother's Day & Father's Day 
E. Jefferson Blvd. • Mishawaka. Indiana 255-8040
1!!!1_..,._-• from Ifotre Dame south on 
•S min. to Jefferson-east 10 min. 

(INCLUDES KEG OF BEER, TAP, 50 cups, ICE, BAG &SALES TAX)* 
Your Choice BUDWEISER, B~DLIGHT, BUSCH, NATURAL; STROH'S 


''~mt~-•ii
w ""'~ 
---The-BeerCo. 
287~1067 


Daily 8:30-4:30 Sat. 10-12 
(NEW CONVENIENT HOURS) 
Michelob/Mich Light $45.00 
Heineken $68.00 We have posters and signs 
for your room. *(Does not include any deposit charges) 

i. 

The Observer Friday, September 17, 1982-page 20 

::: 
SMC volleyball 

~lles await season opener 
By CORINNE FLORES 
Sports Writer 

Skill and enthusiasm abound as the Saint Mary's Belles hit the vol­leyball court this season. After snatching a remarkable third place at last year's AlAW state tournament,
i: 
Coach Erin Murphy feels confident that her varsity team will fair at least as well last year. 
Murphy views this as a new build­ing year due to the graduation of three starters in May. Tryouts were held September 1-3, when the 12 players were selected. 
Returning athletes include senior Peggy Piesche~ junior Loret Haney, 



TbeWbmerl 
Buffet Lunch S4.00 11:30 am-2:00 pm Buffet Dinnet SS.OO 
4:00 pm -6:00 pm fot the ftlends of Notte Dame 
,.........•...•.•.•...•.................................................. 
LEE'S B-BQ &RIBS 
OPEN FRI4pm-1am SAT3pm-3am 
'BEST RIBS IN MICHIANA' 
'EVERYBODY C'MON DOWN FOR A GOOD TIME' 
GOOD LUCK TO ND, BEAT THOSE WOLVES! 
(No phone in orders) 

and sophomore Ann Boutton. Bout­ton, an extremely strong player, PoSitioned at middle front, is noted for her quickness. As a tremendously talented setter and the quarterback on the court this year, Haney is probably one of the team's leading hitters. A gem on and off the court, Pieschel's leadership and commit· ment have earned her the title of team captain. 
Coach Murphy refers to this crop offreshmen as the most athletic that 
New tennis coach leads St. Mary's 
By M.ARY-ALICE O'GRADY 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team is al­ready into the swing of things this year, with an 8-1 victory over Val­paraiso University and an 8-1 victory over University ofIllinois at Chicago Circle. 
John Killeen, the team's new coach, has had ample experience in tennis. He's coached both girls and boys teams for ten years at Washing­ton High School in South Bend. He's been in charge ofall USTA tourna­hlents held at Leeper Parkand all the high school tournaments. His per­sonal accomplishments include nine city championships. In 1977, as a veterans doubles player, he was ranked first in the Midwest. 
The varsity players on the team this year include: Debbie Laverie, Maureen Fitzgerald, Ann Huber, Heather Temofew, Christen Beck, Kim Kaigi, and Maureen LaFountain. Other members of the team are Al­lison Pellar, Karie Casey, Michelle Spinoza, Diane Schnell, and Kathy O'Toole. 
The team is "looking forward to a good season" a"nd invites everyone to come and cheer them on at any of their home matches. The upcoming meet is on September 21 against Manchester College at 3 p.m. On Oct. 7 they'll take on Notre Dame, also at 3 p.m. Their final home game is on Oct. 9 against Rosary College at 9:00p.m. 
she has seen in the four years that she has been here. Because they are in good physical shape, quick, and strong, Murphy is confident that they will fit into the program easily. 
Among the predicted standouts are Mary Garvey, Jean Weigand, and Beth Kreber with their refined skills and evident experience. South Bend's own Saint Joseph's High School presents the starting center, Rita Schubert. 
Infectious enthusiasm invades the volleyball team as Marianna Viola displays her passing and hitting abilities. Newcomers Molly Baker, Eileen Copeland, Maggie Leary, and Thereze Sichko promise to be valuable additions this 1982·83 season. 
Assistant Coach John Klebba has already contributed much to the program since his arrival a few weeks ago. The Belles open their season in a smashingencounter with Notre Dame. The Irish are a tough opener since their recent jump to the Division I level, while Saint Mary's has remained in Division III. Coaches Murphy and Klebba are looking forward to their first oppor­tunity to see their team in action tomorrow 10 a.m. at the Auxilary Gym ofthe ACC. 
... Hope 
continuedfrom page 24 
their neighbors how much they have improved. Probably the biggest crowd of tht: year will be on hand to watch. 
"We're getting ready to beat them into the ground," said Anderson, who, incidently, was assistant coach for Saint Mary's last year. "I think it should be like this (the Hope match)." 
"I'm just going to sit back and smile," says Vanslager. 
On top of the fact that Anderson has switched sides, there should be an interesting matchup between sis­ters.Josie and Miki Maternowski, the centers for each team, will face each other from opposite sides ofthe net. 
The match will be held in the ACC Pit tomorrow at 10:00 in the morn­ing. 


MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM SUNDAY, OCTOBER 17 8PM TICKETS ON SALE NOW ALL SEATS RESERVED: $9.50 
TICKETS AVAILABlE AT RIVER CITY RECORDS; SUSPENDED CHORD; aunERFLY RECORDS, WARSAW: WORLD OF SOUND I UQHT, Pl.YIIIOUTH; GOOD SOUNDS, KNOX; JR'S MUStC, LAPORTE: cttECK'RO FLAG, IIUCHtGAN CITY: RE.CORDLAHD, BENTON HARBOR. 

The Observer Friday, September 17, 1982 -page 21 

Without Sullivan 
Soccer team faces Ohio State 
Old stalwarts set in Irish backfield 
By MICHAEL VORIS 
Sports Writer 
"I wouldn't trade this set of backs for any in the country," says Tom Lictenberg of the proteges he coaches, namely the running backs. "The guys I am coaching are strong physically, quick, speedy, hard· nosed, great to work with, eager to learn and always make a good ef­fort." 
Anyone who knows anything about football knows that the ball carriers only look as good as the of­fensive line performs. Without the blocking and protection of the men in the trenches, the running game is no more than a fantasy. All ofthis re­quires exact timing and consistency. 
"What is expected is that the same play ran three times should have the same results all three times", says Lichtenberg. "From the offensive backfield we need consistency and solid performance -backs who cannot only run but also block." 
To accomplish this, the old stal­warts will be called on again. The familiar names of Phil Carter, Greg Bell, John Sweeney and Larry Moriarty should be heard a lot this season. The backs figure to be one of the big pluses this season for the Irish. 
((/ wouldn't trade 
this set ofbacks" 

Phil Carter will start at the tail­back position out of the 1-formation this year. The 5-10, 197-pound senior averaged over four yards a carry last year and rolled up a total of 72 7 yards. "He is a slashing style run­ner who plays heads-up ball," says Lichtenberg. 
Carter has had problems avoiding injuries during his career at Notre Dame and hopes to bypass that problem this year. If Carter can per­form with the same efficiency as last year, then he will jump from his cur­rent position (13th) on the all-time Notre Dame rushing list to No. 3, surpassing such people as Al Hunter, two of the Four Horsemen and the famed George Gipp. 
The other back at the glamour position is Greg Bell. The 6-0, 205­pound junior averaged a gain ofover five yards every time he touched the ball in 1981. As a backup to Carter jast year, Bell rolled up 512 yards bringing the season total of yardage gained from the tailback position to over 1200 yards. 
"Greg Bell has amazing strength ans excellent outside speed," says Lichtenberg. Bell eclipsed the 100­yard mark twice last season before beingconverted to wingback at mid­season. 
At fullback, Larry Moriarty holds a slight edge over Sweeney and Mark Brooks. Moriarty, at 6-2 and 225 pounds, is very reliable in those fre­quent short-yardage situations. 
Sweeney, a 220-p()un~ seni:or, will aid ·Moriarty with the fulltiack ·a5­
signments. "The experience and 
blocking of Sweeney are invaluable 
to us," says Lichtenberg. 
When a team establishes the run, 

it opens up the passing game. A good 
example came in Ann Arbor last 
year, when Stan Edwards and Butch 
Woolfolk destroyed the Irish on the 
ground, thereby opening the game ,up for Anthony Carter. 
In preparation for the season 

opener against Michigan tomorrow 
night the backfield should be ready. 
So while Anthony Carter is stealing 
all the pre-game press, the Irish run­
ning backs, led by a Carter of their 
own, are preparing to make some 
headlines oftheir own: 
Despite some disappointing per­formances in some of the early games, Hunter seemed basically satisfied with the.team so far. "We're passing the ball well; we counted thirty passes in a row yesterday. But we're just not finishing well enough. We must have hit the crossbar and the posts about fifteen times so far. 
"The biggest problem we have right now is that we're lacking in leadership. I blame myself for that; I haven't been too positive with the players. But I'm instructing them more now on what we want. I think we may be over that hump." 
"Someone has to take the respon­sibility to be the scorer," Hunter went on, "and it looks like Mario (Manta) may be the one. As for our defense, they've been playing well, with three shutouts in four games." 
There will be a few changes in the starting lineup for the Irish tonight. Sophomore Dominick Driano will be moving into the back line, with a freshman getting the start at center halfback, though Hunter wasn't sure who it would be or whom he would replace. 
"It would really be a big factor for us if the students were to come out in force,"says Hunter. "Their sup­port is always important to our success. They can just come over af­I ter the pep rally (at 7:00) and watch the game. One other thing -in five years of Notre Dame soccer, we've never lost a Friday night home game." 
By SAM SHERRILL 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame Fighting Irish soccer team, sporting a 2-1-1 record, battles the Buckeyes of Ohio State tonight at 8 at Cartier Field in their first big regional game ofthe season. They will do so without the services of tri-captain Mike Sullivan who is out for two weeks with a bad charley horse. 
"This is a very important game for us, so we can judge ourselves against a competitive team," states· Coach Rich Hunter. "Ohio State is a team that is about our caliber. They have more backing from their university than we do, but we are at basically the same level. 
"In some of the previous games, like against Valparaiso, we were in no danger oflosing. It's often hard to play your best in a game like that; it's a different kind of pressure. But the kids are all psyched up for this game. It'll really be a good chance to judge where we're at." 

GRAND OPENING! 

GregBel/ Larry Moriarty 

Phi/Carter john Sweeney 

\ 
> Yol a: 

z 
Q 
z

ANGELA AVE 
6-VIDEOGAmES-ms. PAC mAN, CENTIPEDE & mANY,mANY mORE! 

7-EXCELLENT SANDWICHES==It==l===== AND APPETIZERS 
s 

8-LARGE SELECTION OF ImPORTED AND DOmESTIC BEERS 9-mONDAY NIGHT NFL & SATURDAY AFTERNOON NCAA COLLEGE FOOTBALL 10-TOTAL ACTION -GO FOR IT! 
1-BEST SOUND SYSTEm IN miCHIANA 
2-GIANT, ELEVA_TED DANCE FLOOR 3-4 LARGE COLORED T.V. SETS 4-LASER DISC FEATURING "OLIVIA 
NEWTON JOHN" 5-VCR SYSTEm SHOWING YOUR FAVORITE mOVIES 
. Apptoptiate Dtes~ Required 
·~...... 

401 E .. Colfax 3td Floor East Bank Centet · -J:~~''•":'""''' <.~•. 
--~--____..~----~-
Ihe~~~========================================= 
Friday, September 17, 1982 -page 22




Weekend 
Doonesbury 
IT'S ~,8.CJ. I IUHAT64K!JAr;tt GfJTT/1¥7 IN ti£Pe 71E 5PAA.­SHAPE ANP 7lW5 POUT/C4U.Y
1FrJ/../TlCAL. AC· ACTIVe~ Me • T/V15M ARE 7He CINC/NIJirTI 

Simon 

WEll ~.flllSWRY 1X> )W ~E WIT[ T~E lfi\'MS ANC 'RE:Jfl11cTioN.I IN llff C~RtT FO~ CO-ED WIEL­

OH,
YfJAH? Y#IH I 
f I 
... !lY SPR.AYIIJ q COflH 
5CHEMSECifL£K WITH THIS 
SfiAf'F DEV£LOP£D !lY rH£ BIOLD4Y DfPA~fMfNT 
,._ 
LIMQ IN 1'1\~ERILLII 
ei\Sf? 


Fate 

LOOk'S Lll<f A roUGH MICHIGAN T!AM iiiIS YEAR, COACH. ~HAT'S YouR 
Sf(AT£CZY? 


W£ !'LAN TO J(HP THt t11CHiqAN ~QUAD'S MIND 
COMPL£1fLY orr IH£ (rAM( ... 
17 Peak 37 Man-powered 58 Show 26 Gush forth 
18 Learned one vehicle 
20 Monogram of 41 Cease! on Prufrock's the seas creator 42 Douglas ­
21 Halyard 43 Blockade 23 Devastation 44 Moved on 24 Singer 45 Track man 
Campbell 47 Poet Teas­25 Fights for dale twos 48 -game 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

9117182 

Garry Trudeau 

aJtAr1/8()(/T THAT /i.l45 AU TH& 811</N/ 5PEC!A/..EFF£CT5! SCENE. IN J1J£Z, 800PS!e, "GO/..Offl ~'rOU
ravo·? CAN ee 50 
I 6UUI8le' 
Jeb Cashin 
NE£D l REMINI.l IHE croN~:>El THRT MY CLI EHT 
I~ AfRtsHMAN! 

Photius 
Campus 
•9 
a.m. -Placement Meeting, For MBA graduat­ing students, CCE Auditorium 

•2:45 
p.m. -Philosophy Colloquium, Barry Miller, University of New England, Armidale, Austria, Library Lounge 

•3 
p.m. -Tennis, ND Women vs. Rosary College, Courtney Courts 

•3:15-Public 
Policy Workshop, "How Should the Price for Natural Gas be Determined--by Car­tel, by Regulation, or by Competition?" Edwin Rothchild, 331 O'Shaughnessy, Sponsored by Department ofEconomics 

•5:
15 p.m. -Mass foiled by supper, Bulla Shed, Sponsored by Campus Ministry 

•7, 
and 9:30 p.m. -Film, "My Brilliant Career", Engineering Auditorium $1.00 

•7 
p.m. -Pep Rally, Stepan Center 

•7 
p.m. -Opening Reception, Third Annual Juried Show, Hammes and Uttle Theatre Galleries, Sponsored by Indiana Women's Caucus 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "That Obscure Object of Desire", Annenberg Auditorium, S2. 50 

•s 
p.m. -Soccer, ND vs. Ohio State University, Cartier Field 


T.V. Tonight 
II'S TH£ 'SCfNT 6p.m.
Of A F£MAL£ 
W0t..V£R INI! IN HOtl. 

6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8p.m. 

49 A Monday or 14 Chums, out 
8:30p.m.

a Tuesday West 
9p.m.

51 -Aviv 16 Have a feel. 52 Coach's for 
10p.m.

realm 19 Result of 54 Discon-an underbid certed 22 Advocate 
56 Mire of a supe· 
10:30p.m.
57 Removed rior caste fuu 24 Origin 
The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 1 Clan emblem 6 American 
painter 11 Hidden 12 Dressed 
wood 14 Military group 15 Esters 
27 Secluded 
room 28 Rotters 29 Nightclub 
performer 31 Wrap up 32 Revolving 
platform 34 Famous streetcar 

contempt 28 Abandoned 59 Part of wrecks 
llp.m. E.A.P. 30 Before: pref. 
11:30p.m. DOWN 31 Network in 1 "-John, England M.D." 33 Large 2 Follower terrier 
Brian 
of Sept. 34 Coolidge's 3 New Mexico veep 
16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  MacNeil/Lehrer Repon  
16  M0 A0 S0 H  
22  Family Feud  
28  Tic Tac Dough  
34  Straight Talk  
16  The Powers of Matthew Star  
22  Dukes of Hazzard  
28  The Fantastic Miss Piggy Show  
34  Washington Week in Review  
34  Wall Street Week  
16  The Manin Chronicles  
22  Dallas  
28  Greatest American Hero  
34  Watch When all the Citizens Help  
34  Religion and Social Issues  
22  Falcon Crest  
28  Strike Force  
16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  The Dick Cavett Show  
16  Tonight Show  
22  C. B.S. Late Movie: "Hardhat and Legs"  
28  ABC News Nightline  
34  Captioned ABC News  
28  Saturday Night with Rodney Danger·  
field  
16  SCTV Comedy Network  

The saga ofthe youngest domer. 

©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
9/17.182 
city 4-Arden 5 Small, 
plentiful fish 6 Strawberry 
runner 7 Fragrant shrub 8 Hebrew 
measure 9 Arab 
garment 10 Annoyed 11 Kind of 
effort 13 Market again 

35 Happenings 36 Lowshoes 38 Alpine 
plant 39 Made a pact 40 Wooded 
area 42 Rabbits' 
foe 45 Cosmetic 46 Fanatical 49 Expansive 50 Chinese 
masculine principle 53 Pester for payment 55 Depot: abbr. 
BRIAN EARNS HIS FIRST 
PERFECi-SEVEN EMIL. 
A&utud­9oiK10 flci6 weekeacd af Sacie1t '&It~O!t ~'le..grutte ~. F6wacg flee grutte. emtte ketl1t flee 9Wk HW6ie oh flee 
TED HEALY BAND· 




The Observer t ay, September 17, 1982-page 23



========~============================================~~~~Fr~.d~~ 

_
.... 




l 

i" .. 
·I 

... 
. . 
.­




Friday, September 17, 1982 -page ~4 
Field hockey team rebounds for victory 
By TOM ANTONINI and SUSAN SOLOMONIK 
Sports Writers 
The Notre Dame field hockey team posted its third straight victory of the season, a 3-1 win over Hope College yesterday at Alumni Field. The Irish had to battle back from a slow start and a 1-0 detlcit to pull out the victory. 
Hope opened the scoring with a goal off a corner shot at the seven minute mark of the game. Notre Dame had been controlling posses­sion up to th2t point. However, for the rest of the first half neither team could establish momentum. Neither team could capitalize on several good opportunities to score. 
Notre Dame finally tied the game at the 32-minute mark on junior Karen Korowicki's fourth goal of the season. The first half ended tied 1-1. 
The Irish seemed to get it togeth­er in the second half of play as they scored early on to go up 2-1. Senior Kathy Ray scored her fourth goal of the season just two minutes into the halfto give Notre Dame the lead. 
The second half was a different game for the both teams as the pace quickened considerably. Freshmen Molly McCabe and Claire Henry kept up constant pressure against the Hope defense. The overall play of the Irish in tbe second half was much more crisp and fast-moving. ND Coach jan Bishop said her team worked on tightening up their passes in the second half to make up for their early sluggish play. 
"We had to get our combination shots going," said Bishop. "We had to use our short quick passes and go around them." 
At the 13-minute mark, senior co­captain jeanne Grasso finished the scoring for the game. Her goal, which was her first ofthe year, came 
See REBOUND, page 19 


The Notre Dame field hockey team defeated Hope College yesterday by a 3-I margin at 

By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
.. 
The Flying Dutch from Hope Col­lege in Holland, Mich., (where else?) took on the Notre Dame women's volleyball team last night, but, par­don the expression, had no hope as 
the Irish breezed 15-6, 15-8, 15-8. 

"A cakewalk" is the way Assistant Coach Dan Anderson described the match. Notre Dame's only real enemy was itself as the Irish oc­casionally slipped into periods of lackluster play. 
"The girls just weren't intense," said Anderson. "They had it instilled in them that they were going to win." 
This was most evident in the beginning of the match when the Irish fell behind 4-3 in the first game. It was the only time that they trailed during the entire match. The Hope lead did not last long, however, as the Irish scored 11 consecutive points, mostly on the serving of Mary McLaughlin, as they jumped ahead 14-4. 
They fell into another bad stretch 
Volleyball 

Irish overcome lack ofintensity 
at this point, but the game was never in jeopardy as their opponents could never get their offense off the ground. 
It appeared that the Irish had straightened themselves out when they jumped out to a big lead early in the second game. However, service errors and contact with the net let Hope back into the game. The score reached 7-7 before the Irish got their act together, scoring eight of the last nine points for the game. 
The third game was not even close. Notre Dame moved ahead quickly and gradually extended the lead. While they were plagued with some mediocre play, the Irish did begin to make some nice plays. Senior jackie Pagley and freshman Karen Bauters made some excellent plays, helping to complete the sweep. 
"It was a win in points, not a win in performance," said Coach Sandy Vanslager. "There were a lot of dumb errors. 
"Overall, compared to last year, we played better, but not enough to make me happy. We looked flat." 
Nevertheless, there were some positive aspect in the team's play. The effort of Pagley was a pleasant surprise. Put into the match in the middle of the second game, she spurred the team to some better play. 
"She played super," said Ander­son. "Eighty-percent of her shots were kills." 
Other players singled out for their play were Bauters and co-captain Maryjo Hensler. 
Once again, all of the participants played good defense. Bauters and Terese Henken repeatedly stuffed the ball back into the faces of the Hope players. McLaughlin, Pagley, Hensler, Josie Maternowski, Julia Pierson and Robin Israel dove all over the court to keep the ball off the floor. 
Next on the agenda for the Irish is their archrival, S;tint Mary's. The game should prove to be yery interesting. Notre Dame has beaten Saint Mary's only once and would like nothing better than to show 
See HOPE, page 20 
Alumniparade continues; LaGrotta responds 
EDITOR EMERITUS'S NOTE: It is with great trepidation that we welcome back one ofthe most wide~y-read colum­nists that bas ever written for The Observer, Frank LaGrot­ta. A 1982 Notre Dame graduate, LaGrotta is currently living in the East somewhere, thriving on past glories. His imaginative columns, which most students didn't dare read while they were eaiing, appeared for four years on these pages. This is a one-time deal only, so come in offthe window sill. We're only doing this so he'll stop calling us on the phone. 
Skip Desjardin 
You can blame Craig Chval for this. 
When I left Notre Dame two years ago, 1 promised I would never write another article for The Observer. Students who were on campus then remember the wild celebration that followed my announcement. 
However, when 1saw Chval picking up the pen once again in yesterday's paper, Ifigured 1deserved equal time. After all, ifthe truth be known, I used to write all ofChval's column's anyway. 
Well, okay, not all ofthem. just the good ones. 
So here I am, back on campus for another football game. I suppose whenever you've been away from someplace, the first thing you notice when you return are the changes. But, 

FrakLaliroHa 
~ 
Take the lights surrounding the stadium, for instance. remember the time I lost my ID card in the rest room at a football game. There were 200 ushers standing around who couldn't even come up with a tla1>hlight. 
Oh well, that's progress -and ABC -l(>r you. What I can't tlgure out is why they didn't save money and just have everyone in the ~tands hold up a candle. Better yet, why didn't they play the game in front of the Grotto? That way, if things weren't going right for the Irish, the players could have lit candles at halftime. 
After driving by lhe stadium, I got my tlrst look at the new Senior Bar. Now, I may be wrong, but to me it looks an awful lot like one of the new dorms. 
Then again, maybe it should, since most of the seniors wind up living there before the year's over. 
I got to the ACC and the first thing I noticed was a Fire bird in Digger's parking space. Now, that kind of surprised me, since when I left Notre Dame two years ago, he was driving a Continental. 
going to give him a golf cart. Hut don't worry, Digger, all you have to do is prop up your leg and drive around campus real fast, like you're trying to kill people. Everyone will think you're just another injured football player. And that hrings me to football -which is why we're all here, isn't it? Well, at least it's why I'm here. As a full-tledged alumnus, I can't tell you what a relief it is to be starting a new season. It was a long, hot summer. trying to explain to the millions of Notre Dame-haters in the world why we should have won this game and almost won that game and ... Well, you get the picture. It's tough enough being a student when Notre Dame goes through a losing season. When you're an alumn. living in a strange city, the best you can hope for after a loss is a pat on the back from some cynic, accompanied by a snicker and a sarcastic remark. Hopefully, all that will end this season. If it doesn't, Digger will have to make room on his golfcart for another coach. 
But today, with the ~ights and sounds and smells (especially in the locker room) of football everywhere, no one is thinking anything but the best -for Gerry, for Digger, for their players, and especially for the 59,075 fans who will really be in trouble if something goes wrong with those 
lights tomorrow night. 

J 
To the alumni coming home -welcome back. To the 
even so, 1 wasn't prepared for some of the things 1 found I guess that's what a losing season does to you. students who are here -thanks for having us. And to Craig Rumor has it that if Digger has another bad year, they're Chval -See what you started?
since 1arrived. 

------~----. ------­
• '--=-~•· ~-----------~~~..,.••. L 110.1..-.......--------~...............-~~_.:.,...r 



