, , .NCAA -Page 9 

V< >L. XVI, Nu. I 1·1 an indt>pendent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, MARCil II, 19H2 

Bookstore Basketball sign-ups numberedfour­hundred.fifty-threeyesterday as the lines to regis­ter extended Jar beyond the doors ofLa Fortune. 
48 hours notice 

Five Pangborn students expelledfrom dorm 
By SEAN F. FAIRCLOTH 
News Staff 
Fin· Pangborn students were ex­pdkd from thdr dorm yesterday because they had "caused problems in Pangborn Hall and not fit into the community according to Pangborn pt·rsonnel," according to a letter handed to ca«.:h of the students by Dean James Roemer. The students were givt·n 41-! hours to vacate the dorm. 
According to the students, Roemer gave no other reason than that University policy allows the Ad­ministration to rearrange housing at any time. 
The five students resided in sec­tion seven of Pangborn. Assistant Rector Fr. Steve Jcsel­
1 
nick and Resident Assistant Bob Bruce held a meeting yesterday for section seven students who had not been expelled. According to sopho­more Brian Conway, a student present at the meeting, Jeselnick in­formed the students that the five "gentlemen are no longer members of the Pangbmn community, be­cause they have an attitude problem." 
Conway said Jcsclnick refused to elaborate when asked repeatedly by several students for examples of this 
attitude  problem.  Conway  noted  
that  the  expulsions  were  
"completely unjust."  

Another student, junior Pat Doran, said, "I agree with Fr. Steve that it's a private university and ifthe staff feels there is a reason to remo~e 

sion. It is simply 1984 purge tactics,
ROemer notContacted life are passed over with no discus-
I issues of this importance to student 
indrinkingincident 
By CINDY COLDIRON 
StaffReporter 
Notre Dame administration oft1­
cials deny any knowledge of reports 
that four students were arrested for 
under-age drinking last week at Lee's 
Grill and Barbecue, I 132 So. Bend 
Avenue. 

According to a South Bend Tribune story, four N.D. students were arrestt·d by officers. Dt:an of Students James Roemt:r said he has not been contacted by the South Bend Police Department about an incident and had no information aside from tht.· story in the Tribune. Stating that he had made "a written agreement" with the Northeast nc:ighborhood that when Notrt: Dame students arc arrested for under-age drinking, the administra­tion would not intervene, Roemer saiJ that the: stuJcnts arc on their own in such a situation. He also added that the: University will not take: sanction~ against students ar­rested for such incidents. 
Roc:rnt·r said that he: viewed the 
South Bend Police Force as "well­trained professionals who know how to handle themselves well un­der pressure." 

President of Student Affairs Fr. John Van Wolvlcar, also said that he had not been contacted by the Police Department in regard to this incident. 
Saying that he does not feel such incidents arc caused by student frustration because ofa lack ofsocial life, Van Wolvlcar feels there are a suftkient number of social diver­sions on campus. 
Dr. James McDonnell, director of Student Activities, said that ht: felt "when you have a population of several thousand students, I don't think you can have enough activiies to satisfy everyone, nor does any school." 

Sgt. Ryker of the South Bend Police Department would only con­firm the fact that four Notre Dame students were arrested at Lee's on "the charge of being minors in a tavern by a plainclothes officer." 
and I plan to investigate the matter fully in my student government capacity." 
One of the expelled students said there never was a chance for Jialogue. He claimed, "never has any disciplinary action been taken against me at this University. Today I was given 48 hours to leave Pangborn. No reason was given. What (expletive deleted) me off most is that the hall staff never con­fronted any ofus or warned us. Now try explaining something like this to your parents." 

Roemer refused to comment fur­ther, citing only the letter as ex­planation. He said that further motivations for the expulsions could only be forthcoming from the hall staff. 
Jeselnick refused to comment on the matter, directing inquiries to Roemer. 

Riehle claimed that the explana­tion in the letter was adequate and refused to comment to The Ob­server. He claimed he did not wish to stain the reputation of the students involved. 
Riehle, however, did explain the 

VanWolvlear explains kegproposal rejection 
Editor's Note: Recently Observer Staff Reporter Kathleen Doyle met with President ofStudent Affairs Fr. john Van Wolvlear to discuss his recent rejection ofthe kegproposal. 

Fr. Van Wolvlear 

Q: Why did you reject the keg proposal after rectors and students approved it? 
A: The idea and its presentation were good, but I rejected it because of the lack of control coming on campus and subsequent literature that I read indicating that the keg mentality is to drink as much as you 
them from the dorm, they can." He added, "There arc two types of people. Those who show disrespc:ct and apologize and those who show disrespect and wish t to form a social group based on that disrespect." Doran refused to offer spec t ific ex­amples ofthis claim. 
Another student said that al­though he was not a close friend of the five, he wished to remain anonymous for fear that Jeselnick might also try to "purge" him. This student claimed that a hall resident was forced to leave last semester un­der similar circumstances. He said, "Ifyou don't think the way Fr. Steve thinks, you're gone." Junior Patrick Borchers, resident of Pangborn and student government member, said he was "~nned that chances for meaningful dialogue on expulsion to the parents of one of the students. According to the stu­dent, Riehle claimed drunk and dis­orderly behavior as the reason. 
Riehle also claimed the students posted derogatory posters of Assis­tant RectorJeselnick on a door. 
The student said Riehle explained to his parents that the most recent infraction occurred Friday night, when the students played their stereo loudly just prior to 2 a.m. 
Freshman Ed Tallon, who lives near the student's party room, claims that "not during the entire semester" has he been awakened by the expelled students. 
One student in the dorm said he planned to send a petition around the dorm calling for the removal of Fr. Jeselnick from the dormitory. 
can as fast as you can. This was a study done by a psychologist who was not familiar with our campus. but campuses in general. 

Q: Could you elaborate on your reasons for not appointing a full­time off-campus housing director? 
A: After consultation with Fr. Hcp­pen, we felt that a person who was not a rector could concentrate more on the job, but this job is not full­time. We still feel that It is a part­time job and with Bro. John it has proved to be such. We think that he may be working a little more than part-time on the job, hut nonctlic­less we arc very pleased with the results he has come up with since taking office. I guess we are looking to the future If more housing comes under this offiet·. 
Q: Did the alumni board in­fluence you in any way regarding senior bar or a new student center? 
A: No. The alumni senior club has always been a problem for me be­cause of the rickt·ty condition of the building. It was built to houst.· a fami­ly, not to house the st•nior class and some nights you would think all tht· senior class is over there. And if something ever happened, it could really be a catastrophe:. I just don't like to think about the possibility ofa catastrophe taking place over thcrt.·. It is not a good place for socializa­tion. It's too packed. You have to shout. There's no place to sit and relax or to have a conversation. 
The student center has been a concern ofeveryone, as to just what our needs are. We're having a study done to see. Some students you talk to have enough social activity. They feel we don't need a new center. And there is the question of what Is the right thing to put up. Some pcopk say to put up satellites. Some people say we made a mistake and that we should never have done it. Wt: just don't know where to go. We can't get anyone to agree on anything. O'Meara talked to the llall Presi-
See QAA, page 3 

Grace electiondeclared 'valid'byHall Board 
ByTONIRUTHERFORD 
News Staff 

The controversial Grace election was declared "valid" by the hall judicial board. 
Mike Burton, past president, explained that the decision was based on the election committee's lack of exact voting hours. The rules establishing voting hours state that voting will take place during the lunch and dinner hours. There is, however, nothing to require the voting area to remain open for the full dining hall hours. The judicial board agrees that this is inconvenient for voters, but both Grace Hall's judicial board chairman and the judicial coor­dinater have declared the election valid. 
Christopher Quinn, the new Grace Hall president, plans to make the establishment of set election rules one of his major objectives. According to Quinn, a set area for voting and the number of ballots necessary are needed as much as set hours are. 
When asked if he felt the election was fair, Quinn replied, "Although the election did not run as smoothly as possible, any Grace resident who wished to vote had a chance." Quinn felt that the lack of ballots at lunch hurt both him and his opponent, but there were ample ballots at dinner. 
When queried about the closeness ofthe vote, Quinn compared it to a basketball game. "If UCLA or Notre Dame win by one or two points, does the loser call for a replay? On any given day, anyone can win." 

r---~-----------------------------~----------------~--­




News Brie/§ 
By The Obser1•er ami The Associated Press 
The United States banned all oil imports from Libya yesterday and accused Col. Moammar Khadafy's militant Arab regime ofan "outrageous plan" to assassinate American officials and their families in Sudan. A senior U.S. official said the plot was broken up last November before two stereo speakers packed with plastic explosives could be flown from an unidentified neighboring country to Khartoum, Sudan, where they were to be placed in the American social club. The official, who spoke on the condition his name not be used, said the devices were prepared by Libyan intelligence officers and could have killed or maimed hundreds of U.S. Embassy workers and their families at a weekend dance. The "particularly horrible mission" was cited as one reason for ending oil imports from Libya and blockingsalt: ofAmerican oil and gas technology to that country. The senior official, who briefed reporters after State Department spokesman Dean Fischer read the announcement, said current con· tracts would not be interrupted. The United States imports about 
I50,000 barrels of oil a day from Libya. This represents a tiny frac­tion of U.S. oil imports. Libya's principal European customers arc Greece, Turkey and Italy. -2AP 
The military-dominated government of 
Guatemala emerged from presidential elections with its power in­tact but may have failed to gain U.S. backing for its fight against a growing guerrilla movement. Sunday's elections, which gave the lead for the four-year presidency to the former defense minister. Gen. Angel Anibal Guevara, were marred by charges of fraud. the detention of three opponents and a tough crackdown on political protests. The United States suspended military aid to Guatemala in 1977 because of charges of human rights abuses and made it clear that honestelections and a reduction in violence.: would help end the suspension. The U.S. State Department has since expressed its con­cern over reports of rigged voting but ha~· yet to say what d'th:t the accusations may have on American policy. Guevara said Guatemala's relationship with the United States will depend on the reaction of the.: American people to the elections. Washington likely will wait and sec if the three unsuccessful candidates have hard cvidcn<.-c of fraud or ifthey merely arc sore losers, as Guevara insists. The govern­ment so far has shown no interest in discussing the election con­troversy with the United States. "I think that in this affair we don't have anything to talk to the United States about," Defense Minister Gen. Rene .'v1cndoza told reporters. -AP 
Claus C. von Bulow cleverly "painted a picture of himself as a loving husband" while trying to murder his wife, a prosecutor said Wednesday, but the dd~nse insisted he would have suffered "all the wrath ofhell" rather than hurt her. Prosecutor Step­hen R. Famiglietti, delivering closing arguments in the attempted murder trial, dismissed as "ridiculous" a defense suggestion that the hypodermic needle and insulin allegedly used in the case were false­ly planted as evidence against von Bulow. The.: 55-year-old Danish­born financial consultant is accused of trying to kill heiress .'v1artha "Sunny" von Bulow by injecting her with insulin during visits to their Newport mansion during Christmas 1979 and 1980. If con­victed, he could bt· sentenced to 20 years in prison on each count. Judge.: Thomas U. Needham said he would instruct the seven-man. five-woman jury this morning and then have them begin delibera­tions. Famiglietti. attacking the idea that the evidence was planted, told jurors: "if after two months of trial you arc convinced that's what happened, I implore you to rush back into this courtroom and t1nd .'vir. von Bulow innocent." He contended that von Bulow wa~ driven by greed f(>r the S 14 million he would inherit on his wife's death and by his love for another woman. -AP 
The newsstand and home-deliveryprice 
of Chattanooga's two daily newspapers will fall from a quarter to a dime beginning .'v1onday to sec if sales pick up. "This unprecedented reduction ... will be effective for at least the spring and summer months of 1982," .'vicDonald, chairman of Chattanooga Publishing Co.. which prints and handles business functions for the papers. said yesterday. "On SqJt. I, we will review the results of this marketing test and may at that time increase the price." The morning Chat­tanooga Times and the afternoon Chattanooga News-Free Prt·s~ began a joint printing agreement in .'v1ay 1980. saying the Times was in danger offailing. The papers arc.: cdiorially independent. The.: Sun­day .Ve/l's-Free Press will rt·main 75 cents. Tht· Times docs not pub­lish on Sundays. -AP 
Survivorsoftht· most devastating firebomb strike on Tokyo during World War II attended memorial services Wednesday and erected a statue to mark the day .'17 years ago when as many as 80,000 people pcrisht·d. An armada of .'100 U.S. warplanes hit Tokyo with firebombs for 26 hours on \-larch I 0. 1945. wiping out 40 per­cent ofcentral Tokyo. The air strike also wounded more than 50,000 people and razed more than I80,000 homt·s. -AP 
Iran and Turkey signt·d a s 1.8 billion barter agree.:· mcnt Wcdnt·sday, Radio Tehran said. The broadcast said Iran will trade 60,000 to I00,000 barrels of oil per day for wheat, milk products and chicken over the next 12 months. Technical commit­tees in Iran and Turkey will also study the possibilities of laying pipelines in Turkey to bring Iranian oil and natural gas to Europe. 
AP 
Cloudy todayand mild with a slight chance of morning showers. High in the mid and upper 40s. Tonight dearing and cool. Low in the low .'lOs. Tomorrow warm with chance of showers developing. l-ligh in the mid and uppt·r 50s. -AP 
Thursday, March 11, 1982 -page 2 


Shapiro victim of 'spying' 
Prof. Sam Shapiro was sitting in the corner of The Observer office Tuesday clipping articles out of old newspapers when I walked in the door. It had been a long time since I ran into the history department profes­sor. Three years had passed, if! fact, since I took his class in History of the Western Hemisphere. Several things strike you immediately about Shapiro; he's brash, out­spoken, and full of colorful anecdotes as likely to be culled from old army days, time in Cuba during the Castro upheaval, or even classical music. I thought I learned a lot from Sam in class, and so did many of my colleagues. But Shapiro was still in the process oflearn­ing something himself Tuesday: the reason why he was kicked out ofone of his classes. 
The dilemma he faces is almost as unique for Notre Dame faculty members as his own personality. After I 8 years of teaching here. Prof. Shapiro was relieved in late 
January of his teaching duties in a freshman level Humanities Seminar class. It's not everyday that a professor is removed from a class in the middle of the semester unless there arc serious personal or medical reasons. The official reason given was "a change in scheduling." Sam claims he was thrown out and replaced in the course of the semester because of the complaints of a handful of 
students. In the February 9 issue of this newspaper. two 
become the victim of anonymous students were "spying." This time the in­quoted in a story reporting h>rmants reported to Uni­the "schedule change" as versity officials, not men in accusing Shapiro of using cloaks with daggers. But "using colorful language and they still remain faceless, expressing views not in line nameless figures. and their with Catholic doctrine." aim is the same: to discredit One of the disgruntled stu­Sam Shapiro. dents whined that "His There arc three sides to (Shapiro's) class was never every story, your side. the comfortable." Another com­opposition's side, and the plained that Shapiro gave ad-"""-.,.._~ true side. The facts ditional reading and movie surrounding this case arc assignments." ~~!:::::~ still not all in, so no judge­
As Shapiro clipped this ment either way can yet be particular article out, he made. But the silence of the couldn't help chuckling to administration has been 
himself. He admitted that yes, indeed, he used "colorful" Iangage at times, and yes, he is not a Catholic, and doesn't agree with many church doctrines, "But why," he asked, "didn't they tell 
me to my face? If I knew I was offending anyone I would 
have apologized." 

There has been some angry reaction by some of the students who arc still wondering why Shapiro didn't come to class after jan. 26. Two ofShapiro's former stu­dents even wrote a letter to the editor which was printed here Feb. 19. Richard Green, who sat in on Shapiro's aborted first weeks of teaching this semester, remembers his t(mncr professor this way: "Professor Shapiro's class was my lowest grade, but I think I got more out of that class than my others. I think a good percentage of the class feels like I do." 
Shapiro also took his class to the Snitc Art Gallery and even invited the group over to his house for a visit. But now he has been replaced by another teacher. 
The situation is particularly ironic for Shapiro be­cause just last year he procured a file under the freedom of information act that had been accumulated over the years by United States intelligence agencies. The dos­
nesigu Editor............ D<.:in.lrc \1. \1urphy /Je...;ign Assistants............. \1arylin l.arkin Ed Carrull ~ut· Hynn .Jamc.:~ P.Kl')'l':O. TJ•pesetlel ........................................ AI :\I ova:-. "On His\\ a~· To \1IA \11" Veu•,,· J:'ditor ................ \1argan:t Fosmot· Cuj)J' Editors .......................... Paul \1,_:Ginn Jot· \1us<.:mc.:d .\jJorts C:upr l:'dilur... Dzan· Dziedzic H&T LaJ•uul . ............................ Alex Szilvas John \1al·or 1'i1Jist ........ ~ ... ~ .............. ~.~ ......J<·anl'ttl' lim<·, \'/) Oay l:'dilur ...................._lm: \1uM.:nu:ci Ad lh.!si~u .............................. \1ary Torchia Photugrapher. ........................John \1acor (iuest Appearcuzces...................... <Joodwill Turtk. (ihost of \1oo~c Control. Osgar Spring llrl'ak h·n-r( \1iami. florida of t·ourM·) Anti not Kenosha Ex·Lax "All life i~ a toil. and lo\'t: is a trouhlt-. Ht·aury will f:u..k.and richt'!-1 will tlct: Ph:asun.·s they tl\\indh: and prices thc.·y d<,uhlc And nothing i:, as I would wish it w ht:."  
The Observer 1 USPS 598 920) 1~ publiShed Monday through Fnda y and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students 0f Noire Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col~ lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year 1$15 per semester! by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 The Observer 15 a 'Tlember ol The Associated Press All reproduct1on nghts are reserved Second class postage pd1c1 at Notre Dame Indiana 46556  


skr was amazingly complete and remarkably accurate. In fact the only way some of the information in that file could have been gathered was for informants to have been planted in Shapiro's classes at Notre Dame. Be­cause ofhis often outspoken political views, the Central Intelligence Agency apparently felt Sam was important enough to warrant special treatment. especially during the.: turbulent campus days ofthe sixties. The.: unnerving fact is that no matter how you cut it, "spies" sat in on Shapiro's classes before. And that should be a revolting prospect for a University like Notre Dame which claims to h>stcr a free and open atmosphere for the exchange of ideas and learning. 
J. Edgar Hoover is dead, and the sixties arc just a memory. but it appears that Shapiro has once again 
deafening. The only public comment made by Dr. Emil Hofman, Dean of the Fresh­man Year of Studies, for example, was "I think people don't comment on administrative matters. It's not the right thing to do." 
That's Shapiro's dilemma -no one has told him to his face exactly why he was relieved. Not the students. not Emil. not even Prof. Edward Klein, director of the Freshman Writing Program. But according to the perplexed Shapiro, a faculty committee is investigating the matter. And if some satisfactory explanation is not forthcoming, another faculty lawsuit will be looming on the horizon. 
The viell's expressed in the Inside column are the uieu•s ofthe author, and do not necessarill' represent the 11ieu•s ofThe Observer or its editorial board 
Observer notes._--+------. 
The Observer is always looking for new produc­tion people. Call .'v1ike at 239-7471 or come up to the Observer office after 8 p.m. and ask t{>r the design editor ifyou arc intert·stnl. 

.-~ 
------------··· ----~---jf---­
The Observer Thursday, March 11, 1 ~o"' -page 3 


Lawschool journal names editor-in-chief 
By BETSY PORTER professional journal dealing with the .Veu•s Staff many aspects of the: law, including currt·nt trends, cases, and statutes. 
'\1ariannc: Latic:rty, a second year Each law school produces its own graduate: law student. has been law review, printing outside: artic:les chosen as I9H2-H.3 Editor-in-Chidof from lawyers, judges, law professors the: .Yotre Dame Lau:J•er, the Law and others associated with the law. School's official law review. Lafferty The .Yotre Dame Lau•J•er also con­is the tirst woman to hold this posi­tains many articles w~itten by stu­tion in the '5H year history of the dents within the University of Notre: publication. Dame: Law School. 
Lafferty, a graduate of Ball State University. is enthusiastic about hn new post and has alreadv chosen her editorial b11ard. As Ellltor:in-Chiet: according to Lafferty. she will over­
.Q&A 

see the production of the publica­tion and "do a lot ofadministrating." Lafferty will be responsible for 
continuedfrom pal{e I
one volume of the puhlkation. This 
consists of tivl· issu<.·s. with the tirst 
dents Council a week ago and asked being published in (ktober of the 
if they wanted a hig building or 'H2-'H.3 school vear. 
satellites. And they came: up with Running as one of tivc tina! can­
satellites after everyone: had been didates, Lafferty said she felt she had
gathering. (Photo byjohn .Wacor) talking about a big building. One the skills and personality ti>r the job. 
group says onl· thing and another Lafferty stressed, "I didn't want to 
group says another thing. It is very run as a u•omm1 candidate. just as 
difficult to hear the whole: student another candidate." She does fed, 
body when there arc so many
USCgame 
however. that she has an added 
spokespeople: for them that you just responsibility hy hl'ing the first 
can't. so perhaps hy looking at other female editor. She realizes that she 
l"ampuses, schools of our com­
Senior trip deadline draUJs near 
must do a good job so that women in 
parable size: and situation. But that years to come also will have an equal 
will b<: difficult be<.·aus<: I don'tBySANDYVALENZUELA four peopk will be: provided. Stu­For more information call '\1eghan opportunity ti>r the position. She 
know how many campuses have: 8S News Staff dents may use these cars to visit Brady at 284-4796, :\1aureen Hunt at added that the selection is "a credit 
percent of the student body livingother dtics such as San Diego which 284-4'5 I I, Rich .\1cl.aughlin at 28.3-to the class" because thn· did not 
on campus. That's a very unique:A sor;o dt·posit for next year's is 127 miles away; Las Vegas, 272 1722, or .\-like: Rigali at 2H.3-16'54. discriminate against her as ·a woman, 
thing about us. And the hall life we: 
Senior Class Trip to Los Angeles ti>r miles; ami San Francisco, .3H7 miks Only '500 spots are available: and or choose hn because she is a 
have is difft:rent from that of other thc ND-lJSC ti>otball game: will be or the: beach. will he tilled on a tirst-comc:, first­woman. 
campuses.collected March 2+2'5. Deposits can A wekome party is planned for serve basis. The Yotre Dame Lau:)'er is a 
Q: What do you predict the top
be paid in the LaFortunt· Student November 28, tht· night ofarrival. A 
priorities 11'i/l be in the PACE 
Center and the LeMans lohhy from Disneyland day is also being 
(Priorities and Commitments for 
I I· I p.m. and 8-9 p.m. on those planned. Discounts will be available: 
the Eighties) report?
dates. on tickets for tourist attractions A: I have not been consulted. I amThe four-day trip will take place: such as Disneyland, Hollywood, 
Congress andSenate ally 
not involved in the PACE commit·over Thanksgiving bn·ak and has an :\1arineland, and Universal Studios. A tee:, but I have a suspidon that twoestimated cost of S37'5. tailgater is also planned for the: last things might throw the pri<>rityIncluded in the price of the: ticket game of the year. 
against nuclearweapons 
ratings into confusion. First of all,arc the airfare to and from LA. :\1aurcc:n Hunt, one of the chair­
the gift of the nt:<."(.'SSary funds to
(including the bus ride to O'Hare:), persons in charge: of organizing the WASHINGTON (AP) -More: The: lt:ader!j of the: congressional build the faculty office building ...
four nights at the: Sheraton trip, said "The trip is well-planned than 120 congressmen and I') push for a nuclear freeze: were Sen. that might be a reality within twoTownhouse. and a ticket to the ND­and should he a lot of fun. I hope we senators allied themselves today Edward '\1. Kennedy, D-:\1ass., and years. The other is the: cutback in
lJSC ti>othall game:. Rental cars with get a lot of participation from the with a movement calling for a halt to Sen. '\1ark Hatfield, R-Ore., who was federal funds to assist students. We:
unlimited mileage for every group of class." 
the stockpiling of morc nuclear an advocate ofanti-war initiatives in have: such a dramatic <.·uthack in the weapons in the United States and the Congress during the: Vietnam con­loan program that it's going to affcn Soviet Union. flict. thousands of students. I suspect At a news conference, congres­The announcement was made at maybe supplying scholarships and


Sen. Williams vows 
sional supporters announced that American University. where nearly assistance to students in need will all they would seek enactment of a 20 years ago President John F. Ken­of a sudden appear on the list, even resolution asking President Reagan nedy made a speech calling for the though it was not even considered

fight to keep seat 
to negotiate: a mutual nuclear arms negotiations that ultimately kd to before. freeze with the: Soviets. the: nuclear test-ban treaty. Q: Hou• much u•eight does stu­
WASHINGTON (AP)-Sm. Har­David Pryor of Arkansas. said they 
The proposal was endorsed by a Edward Kennedy said that a dlmt representation canJ• u•ith
rison A. Williams declart·d Wednes­would do the same. 
long list of prominent kdc:rs from nuclear freeze: would be enforced by you?
day hl· will not resign, despite the The critical voting was expected the worlds of business, religion and verification methods already exist­A: If they come up with a need thatappan·ntly burgeoning prospect today, tirst on Assistant lkmouatic public affairs. Among them was ing and would hy itsc:lf save S20 bil­we think is reasonable we n·ally try
that his t·olleagues, including a ft:l­Leader Alan Cranston's attempt to retired diplomat George F. Kennan, lion a year. to respond to them. Sometimes
low Demonat from Nt:w .krsc:y, will level the lesser disgrace of censure who said in a statement that a move­"Together. the United States and people think it is a bit burc:aunaticotherwise banish him by their votes. against Williams. Failing that -and ment along the lines proposed is the Soviet Union stockpile: a total of hert·, because you have to tou<.·h
t "Right now, I'm not thinking the attempt appears doollll'd -the "absolutely imperative: and urgent." IS,OOO strategk nuclc:ar warheads oases with various offices to sec if a resignation," said the 62-yt·ar-old roll call will soon ti)llow on whether Secretary of State Akxander \1. with nearly ti>Ur tons of TNT ti>r project is feasible. The Oakroom and
William~ as the Senate spent a tifth the Senate will expel its tirst mem­Haig Jr. said a nuclear freeze would every man. woman and child thl· parking lot west of the ROTC
day debating his fimess to snvc in 
ber since the Civil War. 

harm both the national defense and presently living on this planet," Ken­were in response to them. So tht·relif.Chl of his hribery and conspiracy Pryor concnlnl that Williams had Reagan's strategy ti>r reducing the nedy said. "Today the earth itself is arl· sl·veral ways in whkh w<.· do
conviction in the Ahscam case. been abused and probably lt:vd of nuclear arms around the 
an endangered species." respond to students.
"I'm going ... to tight," he entrapp<.·d hy thl· FBI's Ahscam world.
tlel·larl'd. 
team. 

In tht· event a freeze resolution is
But t·n·n Williams' New .Jnsey .............o:EI'i'v'E'R'i'N.G..t'o"N·o·fifE..DA.ME·~......H ••
"lkre is someone washed up on 

adopted. llaig said. "the instability
collcagul'. Bill Bradley, dedarnl yes­our shore with hoth arms broken. 
and political disarray" that COllld fol­
tnllay hl· would vot<." to l'Xpd the 
both legs hrokn1 and n•m Wl' are 

and SAINT MARY'S
low "could he lkvastating." lie said
~tall''~ ~enior ~t·nator. <lther 
asked to cut of his head and rip out 

it would han· the effect of freezing a
lkmocrat~. including the n·nerahk 
his heart." he said. 

Soviet advamage in nuclear
John Stt·nni~ of \lississippi. along Goafather's Pizzac.p
\\Tapon~ in Europe th;H mav he· as
wl!h I'atn,·k Leahy of Vermont and Sec WILLIAMS, page 6 
high as 6-1 over thl· West. "It's not only bad defense and ~ecuritv policy, it's had arms control 
policy as well." llaig said. adding that a freeze would take away any indu<.Tilll'IH for the Soviets to 
Observernewsdepartment, 

reducl' thl"ir kvd ofarms.

appoints administrative staff. 
~LOW€RS anb 41~ts 
~OR all 0Cca5510n5 19R2·83 school year. 
The newsdcpou-t•nent has appointcQ an adminJ...~tratlve stafffhr ttle 

Com€ In anO BROWS€. 
Kell_i PUnt will serve as news editor, with .:\iargarf.'•t. F!)smo<:.a~~hH Mary's news eQitot. 
Bob Vonderheide, afreshman from Lcxingum. Kt."'!).tUdy an~lP~Ilve> J Rickabaugh. a M>phi.:!more from johnstown, Pcnnsylv.-ni~ wi:lts,¢(~~{'\ j .u~ aswciatc: news editors. 
Freshmen Mark Wor!K·hch from Houst()O; Vif: S¢i~J:tili.~oQif~Jtlki!H 
~ 
burgh and Mike Wilkins fr()m Fort Wayne, m,m~lll-a WJJ~ ~~~m 

Wyqant ~loRal Co.
MiclJde Dietz from Baltimore 3$ oews.-~~~~(;mCJ~;!i!QP•'I,Qili\Qtl Suphle from Atl~mt~ will conUi)ue alfll.n-w-~~ assi~!ari,!/i . i 


327 llncolnway 
Order the EXPRESS DELIVERY: 
Medium pepperoni, sausage, or combo 
and receive quicker s·eroice. 
............................................•...................... 
Driver has fresh pizza for sale on truck. 
~...ti.Q.UK~.

I Mon.-Thurs. and Sun. 5PM -10:30 PM I Fri. and Sat. 5 PM· 12:30 AM
!........-........,_____________,..____________. 
r 
---------~----~--­
The Observer Thursday, March 11, 1982 -page 4 

judith Belushi, widow ofactor-comedianjohn after funeral services for her husband Tuesday. Belushf, leaves the West Tisbury, Mass., Congrega­(APPhoto) tional Church escorted by two unidentified men 
Coronerreports Belushi died ofoverdose ... 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Comedy star John Belushi died of an overdose of cocaine and heroin, the Los Angeles coroner announced Wednesday. 
Coroner Thomas Noguchi said that Bdushi died "due to in­travenous injections of heroin and cocaine," and said that both drugs were found on the premises where he died. 
Noguchi's secretary said that the coroner would comment on the 
results Thursday but would have no 
immediate comment. 
The written announcement said that the medical investigation into Belushi's death has been completed. 
The brief statment said. "The deceased died ofan overdose due to intravenous injections ofheroin and cocaine. Both the cocaine and heroin were found on the premises." 
The 33-year-old comedy star was found dead in a rented bungalow last Friday. 

• • • asfuneral ends 
CHILMARK, Mass. (AP) -A simple folk tune sung by James Taylor ended funeral services for John Belushi on Martha's Vineyard, 
while officials in Los Angeles 
declined to comment on reports the 

33-year-old comedian died of a cocaine overdose. · The Los Angeles Times said in 
today's editions that it had been told 
EISalvador 





Secretary Haig says U.S. militaryaidvital 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Secretary of State Alexander M. Haig Jr. said yesterday that withdrawal of U.S. military aid would be a "fatal blow" to the government of El Salvador in its battle against leftist guerrillas. 
Testifying before a Senate panel that screens foreign aid requests, Haig also said it is "too early to say" whether the United States would continue to supply aid if extreme rightists win the March 28 Sal­vadoran election. 
When Sen.]. Bennett johnston, 0­La., asked what would happen in El 
Salvador if the United States withdrew its aid, Haig replied, "It would be, I think, a fatal blow to the government's ability to sustain it~ self." 
The secretary added, however, that the outlook for the ruling junta is "not as grim as is sometimes sug­gested" and "in practical terms, the guerrillas are not about to overrun the country." 
Haig appeared· before the foreign operations subcommittee of the Senate Appropriations Committee as the Reagan administration con­
~----------------------------~
ID4t1Knig1Jts nftlyt <ttastlt I 

· ~.. FortheTotalLookonaStvledl Hair Cut,Shampoo, Blow DryI 
& Condition 1 
u •.~... Reg. $15.00 I 
(Across rr-Malti•'s 011 St. ... 231 I

N $1 0 0 0 
TUES., WED.II:JO.~ ow I
THURS., fRI.8:J0..8:30eSAT.II:JO.S:JO • 1 

272-0312•277-1691 complete 1 
we are only minutes from campus !with coupon) I 
~-----------------------------~ 
SUMMER STORAGE SPAOE 


Special discount for RDISMC students 
CALL 259·0335 to RESERVE SPACE 
SELF LOCK STORAGE OF MCKI:NLEY 816 East Me Kinley Mishawaka Security Patrol Checks 
EASY AMTRAK RID..... $5.00 to Niles depot 
For reservations or schedule information, call us or contact your travel agent. 




United Limo 
tinued its efforts to rally public sup­
port for its Central American policies. 
On Tuesday, intelligence experts showed off aerial photographs that they say show a massive Soviet­
supplied  military  buildup  in  
Nicaragua.  
Haig said the insurrection in  El  

Salvador is "largely" and "essentially" controlled from Managua, the capital of Nicaragua. 
Sen. Robert Kasten, R-Wis., chair­man of the subcommittee, said the aerial photographs were "helpful" but "additional hard evidence" is 
Writing 
COnteSt announced 
Announcement is made of the an­nual writing contests sponsored by the department of English in the areas of poetry, fiction, playwriting, and essay. Details as to specific re­quirements will be made available after spring break. Preliminary in­formation available in 309 O'Shaughnessy. 
needed ifthe administration is going to gain support for its policies. 
Haig declined comment on a report in The Washington Post that the administration has approved a plan to try to destabilize the Nicaraguan government by using a CIA-directed 500-member paramilitary force drawn from other Latin American countries. 
Haig said it was "a matter of con­sistent and longstanding policy" not to comment on covert activities. He added that his response should not be interpreted as confirmation of the report. 
Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., asked Haig whether the administration would continue military aid if a far right party headed by former Maj. Roberto D'Aubuisson wins this month's balloting for a constituent assembly. 
"It is too early to say," Haig responded. 
D'Aubuisson's party is the farthest to the political right ofthe six parties taking part in the election. The Christian Democrats of President Jose Napoleon Duarte are regarded as centrist and the others are in be­tween. The leftist parties, including the guerrilla faction, are boycotting the election. 
Haigsaid there are 55 U.S. military advisers in El Salvador. Overall, American aid to El Salvador has risen from $11 million in fiscal 1979 to a probable $325 million this year. 


ANYTHING GROWS 
FLORIST -campusdelivery 
HOUSE PLANTS GIFTS, TELEFLORIST WIRE FLOWERS 
get your hall formal 
272-8820 
N'. IRONWOOD 
at 
TOLL ROAD DIRECTLY EAST of CAMPUS 

corsages and boutonnieres 114mi. N. of Douglas 
free delivery to stepan center 
~----PRESENr-iiiis-couPoN____l I 25% discount on allhouse plants I I NO· SMC I 
I I I I 
·---------~----------------­
by four separate sources that marks on Belushi's arms were made by a 
(Th t was firee-base 
a 
coke he died of 
needle. "That was free-base. coke he died of. That's straight scoop. He shot up with high base (cocaine) and overdosed," the newspaper quoted an unidentified source as saying. 
Free-based cocaine is the drug's purest form after additives are removed by chemicals. The Times had reported earlier such an overdose may have caused respiratory failure and perhaps a heart attack. 



SWAC 
offers safety tips 
By MICHAEL WILKINS 
StaffReporter 
The Social Work Action Commit­tee (SWAC) has prepared a list of safety suggestions for students to fol­low over spring break, according to Kevin O'Brien, the group's vice president. 
Though the basis for the sugges­tions is to help students protect their valuables over break, many of the tips could prove helpful at all times. 

SWAC suggests that when loading and unloading, students should not prop doors open, since a propped door could become an entrance for a criminal. Rooms and cars should also be kept locked during the loading or unloading process and belongings should never be left un­guarded. 
The committee suggests that while students are away from school on break, valuables should not be left in a dorm or off-campus apart­ment. Off-campus residents are advised to store their valuables with a friend or with Notre Dame security while they are away. Students are also reminded to lock all doors and windows are before they leave the 
room. 
"Making people aware of crime and aware of what they can do to fight it is the most effective way of decreasing it," O'Brien commented. "That's our whole purpose and the whole purpose of the SWAC 
program." 
The committee has been running public service announcements on WSND and personals in The Ob­server to inform students of saft:ty tips to follow over spring break. The committee also plans to sponsor a self-defense forum and a presenta· tion by inmates at the Indiana State Penitentiary at Michigan City later in the year. 


Editorials Thursday, March 11, 1982 ­page 5  

Administration 'paranoia' showing in Central America military aid as the answer. public by emphasizing the SovietOne common criticism of Ronald Perhaps Mr. Reagan really does 'Jeuy PittsThere is another possible explana­threat shadowing Central America.Reagan is that he tends to be overly believe that foreign domestic tension tion for Mr. Reagan's insistence on This includes charges of ansimplistic in his views. sets the battleround for the struggle seeing the world in his simplistic "unprecedented rate ofarms flowingFor example, durin a recent between East-West ideologies. If so, way. Rather than an uninformed from Cuba to leftist insurgents -presentation of his new Caribbean he would not be the first to jump to belief, Mr. Reagan may be charges that have yet to be docu­Initiative to the Organization of this hasty conclusion. deliberately manipulating and misin­mented. And there is the case of theAmerican States, Reagan offered this And it is a hasty conclusion. Our ly large amount of time, expense, terpreting facts in order to prove his "missing Nicaraguan", theassessment of the unrest in El Sal­experience in China in the 1940s and and energy is being allotted to El Sal­own, as well as the country's "overwhelming evidence" ofvador: "Guerrillas, armed and sup­in Vietnam in the 1960s should teach vador. Inordinately large because of ' supremacy. Exactly the same thing Nicaraguan involvement. ported by and throuh Cuba, are us that to assign responsibility for an the unlikelihood of any possible as his Secretary of State, Haig, The administration seems to beattempting to impose a Marxist­internal rebellion to external (Soviet) benefits coming of the kind ofenergy accused the Soviet Union of doing. desparately searching for anythingLeninist dictatorship on the people of intervention is often naive, if not ig­expended. The administration chose El Sal­that will convince the public of theEl Salvador as part of a larger im­norant. In these instances, as is true On a larger scale, the U.S. is vador as the theater in which to act urgency of their claims. Haig claimsperialistic plan." in El Salvador today, rebellion is not isolating itself from its allies out U.S. supremecy, vowing to that American's will support the ad­That statement is fairly revelatory a product of external intervention, (Mexico, Britain, France, the "hold the line on Soviet expansion. ministration's policies so long asof what seems to be Reagan's but the inevitable result of a long his-Vatican) who are calling for a It seemed possible to make an ef­they are convinced "that we aresimplistic views of foreign affairs. , tory of social, economic, and politi­negotiated peace to be supported byfective example here, as the forces of going to succeed and not flounder asHe is obsessed with Moscow. Conse­cal injustices and inequitites. economic aid. the Duarte government appeared we did in Vietnam." The administra­quently, any internal division within Implicit in the administration's And, in El Salvador, the continua­about to defeat the leftists. But when tion must realize that they may geta foreign country is seen exclusively belief in halting the perceived Soviet tion of unrest that may have been the leftists weren't defeated, the U.S. limited support if they portray leftists in terms of the inevitable East-West threat is that what we are really doing resolved sooner, an unwillingness to point wasn't made. Instead, the U.S. as Soviet puppets, whereas to portray struggle. is pursuing American interests at the negotiate encouraged by an increas­became (and still is) mired in a com­the situation as the internal rebellionAppearing before a House sub­expense of Salvadoran interests. ing dependence of the United States, mittment in which they have no busi­that it is would result in very littlecommittee, last week, Secretary of Costa Rican President, Rodrigo and the continuation of a climate that ness being involved. public support for U.S. involvement.State, Alexander Haig, echoed Carazo Odio, recently denounced the not only fosters poverty and repres­To save face (amid increasing So, the result of Mr. Reagan'sReagan's philosophy. Claiming that •'almost total ignorance of the sion, but that precludes the survival public outcries of "another Viet­simplisitc tunnel vision (whatever itspreventing Communist domination (Central American) realities when he of the democracy that the United nam") the administration has sought motivations) to date?was "in the vital interest of the stated that Mr. Reagan's "policies States is supposedly seeking to estab­to gain the support of the American In the United States an inordinate-United States, Haig warned of the respond to not to the common inter­lish. "Willingness of the Soviet Union est, but to the exclusive interest ofthe and Cuba to manipulate ... in the in­United States. terest of spreading Marxist-Leninist Alexander Haig's recent state­ideology.'' ments seem to bear this up. several Then Haig dropped what was, times, before the House subcommit­presumably, his bomb. that the tee. Haig stressed El Salvador as "an United States had "overwhelming area of vital interest to the American and irrefutable evidence that the left­people, emphasizing its "strategic ist insurgents in El Salvador were importance to the United States. controlled from the outside by non­What is central and what seems to Salvadorans. C lA Director, William be overlooked, is the interests of the Casey, too, focused on the Soviet Salvadoran people. Economic threat claiming: ''This whole El Sal­stability and an end to the political vador insurgency is run out of oppression exercised by the ruling Managua (Nicaragua) by profes­Duarte junta arc of primary impor­sionals (Koreans, East Germans, the tance. Without either. a climate PLO) experienced in directing guer­favorable to the establishment of the rilla wars. democracy the administration seeks There seems to he two possibk ex­to ensure is impossible, thereby planations for Reagan's inability to precluding the possibility of that sec beyond his vision of an Us-Them democracy's survival. strugggle being played out in various Unfortunately, the Reagan ad­forcin arenas. ministration sees a committment to First things first ; busing , abortion , prayer PAR IS -The International peeled. like benediction before a tions would prove more costly, like doing just about everything in El Sal­Herald Tribune. a paper small in congressional session devoted to the illegal marijuana. On the other hand, vador except praying for its wretched · ~William hcldey size, expensive to purcha~c. tiny in decriminalization of the Ten Com­there'd be fewer of them, it being the people, and have accomplished not circulation, and vast in inllucnce, mandments. But it is seldom seen general, if by no means universal very much, Prayer, which I repeat is featured recently a ~inglc •:artoon hy quite so rawly as by the cartoonist habit of Americans to follow the law very cheap, has not yet been declared Qn the RightTony Auth of the Philadelphia En­here. who begs for a comment or -there arc twice as many abortions, by the Supreme Court to be ineffica­quircL Visible is the Capitol dome, tWO, now that they arc legal, as before, cious, let alone unconstitutional, so isn't difl1cult for the aftluent to pulland rising on the left. a large cartoon The joke depends entirely on the when they were not. Now, pursuing that there are still some Americans their children out of public schoolsballoon with the text: '' In view of in­willingness to subordinate the impor­the purely utilitarian argument, the who believe that the restoration of whose policies arc run by thellation. unemployment, interest tance of three issues to others men­average American generates more prayer in schools not only might judiciary. It isn't at all easy for therates. El Salvador. the.: continuing tioned. By coincidence, these three wealth than he consumes, so that the make for a better world. but for better poor man, though he may writhe inthreat of nuclear cxtincti .. n, and the have in common that they don't, in rise in population by the annual Americans. anxiety over the miscducation of hisongoing tlt:tcrioration of our fact. cost any money to speak of. figure of three-quarters of a million And then busing: there are those children,Rcpuolic. I move wt· deal with There arc public school teachers who (one-half the aborted population) who believe that in certain situations As for abortion? Well, if Abrahambusing, abortion. and pr.1ycL .. And would agree to open daily sessions would not leave us with greater busing and what it implies in forced Lincoln, no less, said that if in orderfive separate hallnns ri,1ng on the with 30 seconds of prayer (as was wealth to consume and to tax, But arc integration means empirically in­to save the Union it were necessary,right of the dome: .. Amen." done in public schools until 1962) we missing the cartoonist's point? ferioreducation, And the people who then the republic should have slaves,"Hallelujah!" "Amen.' .. Amen," without charging a nickel for the ex­His point is hidden. It is, really, believe this include approximately then by extension if it is necessary to"!lear, hear!" tra service. Forced busing docs cost a that these arc not important ques­98 percent of the white population of save El Salvador than we shouldHistorian~ and socioiOflSts arc fre­little money. so that its elimination tions. Who in hell cares whether they Washington D.C., which, as Mike suspend debate about whether it'squently quoted to the ctl:ct that the would slightly lessen intlationary pray in public schools when, rather, Wall ace demonstrated in a murder to kill a one-day-old baby but United States is at one , the most forces. though not by all that much, we should be thinking about El Sal­memorable "60 Minutes" expose a perfectly OK to kill a minus-one­secular nation in the Wlllld and the except in those areas where students vador? Or perhaps praying for El Sal­couple of years ago. all said, simul­day-old baby, why. El Salvador ob­nation most fastidious!) religious. arc made to travel 30 or 40 round-trip vador? Well. I mean-really. Let's taneously: a) The Supreme Court is viously comes first, and it's a goodThe two impulses war w1th one an­miles every day. If one wished to absolutely right about forced educa­ 

be grown up about these matters. is other, though more often ,1dtly: You analyze the question of abortion in the implicit injunction of the car­tip the lady of the night · ith a $100 purely economic terms one might toonist. I do not know what he would note on which is wri'tcn · •n God We project as follows, that if abortions say to the Americans who suggested, Trust." That sort of 1. ng is ex-became illegal, then individual abor-in all innocence, that we have been 
-~~~--' 
,
-------------'--_, ______ --------­



'[beDbset:Ver 
Founded November 3,1966 

The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinio~ of a majority of the Editorial Board. Co.nmentaries, opinions and letters are th.e v1ews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the commumty, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encour3.Bed. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

tional integration; and b) it happens that my own children arc going to be moved to the suburbs, where other students are predominantly white. It thing American readers of the Tribune know that at least some people in America have their priorities straight. 
Copyurrlgbt/982 Unlwnul Prrss S.rndlcat• 
Editorial Board 

F.ditor·in·Cbief"'.. ,, ................."' .....john McGrath 
Executive News Editor"'"'."'"''"'"''"'"'' "'' Kt:lli Flint .\ports Editor····"'"'"'"'"'·"'··"'·······.. Skip Desjardin' Neu•s Editor"'"'"'"'"'"'''"'"'"'.."'."'"'I>avid Rickabau~h Photo Editor..., .......... , ............. ,."', .. ,.. ,John Macor ~~WC Executit'e Editor'"'"'"'"'"' Mary Agnes Carq 
Editorials Edilor.. ,"'..................Anthooy Walton SMC News Editor..."' ....."' ......."'.Cathy Domanico Features Editor ."'......................&rer,ory ~wit:rcz 

Department Managers 
Business Manager ......................... Rich Coppola Production Manager......"'·····"'····Michael Monk Controller,............................................joe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan AdverttsinR Manager.......................Chfis Owen Systems M.:mager......................"'... Bruce Oakley? 
Thursday, March 11, 1982 -page 6
The Observer 



Urban leaders wary of federalism 

ference of ,\'layors, acknowledged that it will not be easy to draft a budget this year "since the economy is suffering a deep recession, un­employment rates and interest rates remain high, and the federal deficits arc at extremely high -and politi­cally intolc:rable -levels." 
Royer said last year's budget cuts and other economic conditions have created high interest rates, "made a shambles of the municipal credit market" and created un­employment problc:ms that con­centrate in cities, while state and local revenues arc: falling off. 
On behalfofboth the mayors cou­fc:rence and the: League of Cities, Boosalis and Royer asked the com­mittee for a moratorium on any fur­ther cuts in federal aid to local governments until the current cuts have been absorbed. 
"We: have taken more than our share of federal budget cuts al­ready," Boosalis said. "Cities arc: still struggling to adjust to these: cuts at a time: when local budgets are also hurt by high unemployment, high interest rates, growing restrictions on municipal bonds and reductions in state: assistance." 
WASHINGTON (AP) The country's urban leaders told Congress yesterday that President Reagan's prescription may be worse than the economic ills it is supposed to cure and some cities may be unable to survive the treatment. 
"I'm grateful for the efforts being made for the long·term cure of our c:conomic ills," said \1ayor H. Ed· ward Knoof Charlotte, N.C. "But I rc:ally have to wonder whethc:r we will be able to survive the pain that this effort is causing now. 
"I have a further concern that the pain may not be short-lived, but may be continued and compounded if the 'new federalism' is enacted into law," Knox said. 
"Nothing could hc:lp cities over their immediate tlnancial problc:ms and enable them to provide needed public services more than an end to our current economic problc:ms and the beginning ofa sound recovery," 'aid \1ayor Charles Royer ofSeattle. ··Yet it is ckar that current and ti>rsec:abk developments promise just the opposite." 
Several city officials tc:stitled hc:fore the House Budget Commit­tee about Reagan's proposed 1983 budget and his "new federalism" program to shift more than 40 federal programs to state and local governments. 
"If the president's budget is aproved as submitted, federal grants to states and localities will decline, in just two years, from S I 06 billion to S6S billion," said RoytT, first vice president of the National League of Citic:s. "Clc:arly, we believe that we arc bt.-aring an unfair share of the burden." 
\1ayor Hdc:n Boosalis of Lincoln, "\lc:b., chairman of the U.S. Con­

...Williams 
continuedfrom page 3 
Nonethdess, Pryor said Williams 
had so seriously violated ethical standards of the Senate, that he must be removed. 
In an emotional moment, Bradlc:y recalled how as a freshman senator he was "grateful for the hdp and friendship" given him by Williams, a member ofthe Senate for 23 years. 

Nonethelc:ss, said Bradlc:y, he had listened to the videotapes of Wil­liams taking part in meetings with Abscam undercover operatives and concluded that Williams "did not meet the minimum standards ex­pected ofa U.S. senator." 
Williams chief defender, Sen. Danid Inouye, D-Hawaii, challenged whether the federal jury which con­victed Williams had done so "beyond a reasonablc: doubt." 
Williams, meanwhile, charged that partisan politics had entered the case, saying the majority of 
Republicans had met in "caucus" and were lined up "solidly in favor of expulsion." 
But Republican Leader Howard Baker Jr. said that was not so. "I can understand the pressure the senator from New Jersey is under," he said. But "there has never been a caucus position on this case." 
Baker had said on Tuesday, however, that his own reading ofthe majority showed "almost no sup­port" for reducing the penalty ofex­pulsion. And Inouye conceded there odds weren't good. 
Williams was convicted last .\'lay of agreeing to trade his influence in exchange for a S I 00-million loan to a mining venture in which he had an interest. The entire scheme was set up by FBI undercover agents. 

..· 
Transpo makes over 30 trips from campus to the airport. For 30¢, shouldn't you be on one? 
Every half hour from 6 am-8:30pm 0 Transpo leaves campus (either from . the ND Library or SMC Holy Cross
Get Up and G
~ . Hall) bound for the Michiana 
Regional Airport via downtown South 
Bend. Connect with Transpo Route 4 (Lincolnway Airport). 

GO TRANSPO ACROSS CAMPUS





for info call233-2131 
ACROSS TOWN

Info Center Hours: Monday-Friday 8a.m.-5p.m. 
Operation Hours: Monday-Friday~ a.m. -10o.m. Saturday 6a.m.· 6p.m. 
Business & Technology_T_hur_sday_,Mar_ch1_1,1(_982_Pa_ge7 
Economic Update 
Britain's new anti-inflation budget met with 
gcnt·ral approval today from industrialists and newspapers. Tht· budget underlines Prime :\tinist<:r .\1argarct Thatcher's tight monetary strategy, and "will strengthen the foundations of t-eonomic rt-covery," Chancellor ofthe Exchequer Sir Gcoffry Howe told Parliament as he introduced the budget Tuesday. The plan will cut energy n>sts to Britain's rt-ccssion-battcrcd industry and seck to stimulate investment and create jobs to combat st·vcrt· unt·mploy­mcnt currently pegged at 3. I million. the worst since the Great Dcprcs~ion of the I 9 30s. Ilowe said ht· expected inflation to fall in I9H2-H3 to around 9 pt-rcent from its current annual rate of 12 pt:r· t'Cnt. Tht· Conservative government's cautious package did not pkasc opposition Labor Party and union leaders. however, who said it is timid and docs nothing for Britain's unemployed. -AP 
Treasury Secretary Donald T. Regan Tuesday dis­rnissnl talk about the possibility of the t'conon1y's slipping into depression as ··absurd." .\1r. Regan. in remarks prt·pared li>r tht· Chamber of Commerct· of Winston·Sakm. N.C.. said the administra­tion's economic program, coupkd with Congrt·ssional ac tion to n:duce further government spending, "will bring this nation out of the twilight of rcct·ssion and into the bright daylight of prosperity." Describing as a myth talk that thc economy might worst·n into a dt·prcssion, the Secretary said: "Nothing could be more absurd nor further from reality. This nation is nowhere near that fatc." -AP 
After a reCOVery bctwcen mid-I <JHO and mid-I 98 I, Canada's economy has weakened markedly in the last several months. Tht· Bank of Nova Scotia. based in Toronto, blamed the dowmurn in business on high interest rates "against a background of pcrsistcnt inflationary expectations." In particular, the bank singles out high rates in the huge U.S. economy and political diftkultics in Eastern Europt· as factors in the demise of hopes for an expansion in ovcrscas markets. :\toreover, the bank is forecasting another year of uneven performance for the Canadian economy. "Total output ~o:rowth in I9H2 will e .xceed 0. 'i perccnt, following an estimated gain of about 2. 7'i percent in I<JH I," the hank says. -AP 


Marketing Update 

Nike Inc., a leading Ameri<:an maker of athletic shoes. is rapidly cstahlishing a solid foothold in the li>rmerly doscd Chinc:sc mainland. In just 14 months. the company has put thrcc shot· fac­tories into opt·ration and has a fourth nearly rt·ady to begin produc­tion. Nikt·, which has headquarters in Oregon, says it expects to produn· I. 'i million shoes in China by thc cnd of thc year. "\X'c'rc looking at having 29 pcrccnt of our total shoes production to come out of China hy 19H'i," says David Chang, a Nikc executive and a nati\'l· of China. Chang says that kind of production would mean I H million shoes produced in China by I<JH'i. -AP 

ICELANDAIR INTRODUCES 
NEW BARGAIN FARES TO 



MORE OF EUROPE. 
LUXEMBOURG PARIS______,
•499 •581 

ROUNDTRIP ROUNDTRIP 
FROM CHICAGO FROM CHICAGO 

ZURICH FRANKFURT
•599 •557 


ROUNDTRIP ROUNDTRIP 
FROM CHICAGO FROM CHICAGO 
~II Apex l'ar•s: April 1 · May 14. 19H2. 7·90 day stay (7-60 days Luxtm· bourg}. Stopovers ptormute-d m both d1rroctlons. 14 day advance purchase rr-qu1red. S('ats hm1ted. Ask about our low cost Normal. Samt> Day, and Group fues, too. 
ALSO LOW COST CONNECTING SERVICE TO NICE AND AMSTERDAM. 
lcelandalf to Luxt'mbourg. Luxair or Crossair connecting service to other destinations. 
• 
Confirmed reservation. • Free wme with dinner, cognac after. 

• 
Bargain Stopover Tours of Iceland and Luxembourg. • Bargain car rentals. • Purchase tickets in U.S. • All fares subject to change and government approval. 


Set-your travt>l a)(t>ntnr rail K00/555-1212 for the toll free lcelanda1r number m ~·our area. 
ICELANDAIR~ 
l:f,J!7.: f,J.)It/l f,lli1tiZ•llj.·I:/£1A 2ftljll•lilj:l•lJI 





~~()rts~l~l=r==i=~~~~======~=====================T=h=ur=sct=a=y,=M=~=c=h=II=,=I9=s=z==p=ag=e=s 
By The Observer'and The Associated Press 
Student Union Ski Trip participants who missed last night's meeting may pick up all necessary information at the S.U. ticket office or at the secretary's desk in the S.U. office on the second floor of LaFortune. Call Kevin at I798 if you have any other ques­tions. -The Observer 
Wosncn"s Doubles 

...West 

De Leone (7956)/Dranclk ( 2914) v. Gallagher 
( 431Z)/GaUagher (6848) (Who?). This team finished third in the always-tough 3) was 4-1 vs. tournament teams this season, and ran up 
Cervenak ( 1363 )/MUier ( 1363) v. Gorski 
Trans America Conference, but qualified for the tourna­the nation's longest winning streak of the season, 22 
( 1262)/Schmid (335Z) 

Mind Doubles ment by winning their conference tourney. If you've games. Winners of the Eastern Eight title, the Moun­
Racquetball palrlnp 

Cordova (1249)/Miller (1363) v. Burton never heard of the TAC, maybe some of these names taineers have a lot in common with Iowa Both received
NOTE: Rcsulu: must be reponed to the NVA office 
( 1789)/GaUaghcr ( 431Z)

by the following Wednesday at 1 p.m. If your name is will jar your memory: Hardin-Simmons College, Sam­at-large bids, were shipped out west, played respectable
Halfield (1171)/Walsh (8034) v. Welsh 
not listed, you have a bye and should look for your new 
( 1212)/Welsh (288-0993) ford (no relation to Stanford), Houston Baptist ... schedules and take late-season downturns into the tour­
pairing the following week. All first round games must 
O'Brien ( 1248)/Bo1and (7956) v. Kabale 
be played by March 24 to avoid climftlation from com­Gimme a break! What's a team like this doing in the ney.
(7838)/Marget (8067)

petition. OpenTorunament tournament? Putting the pieces together, Georgetown and Oregon
Men's Doubles 

Kevin Simpson (3370) v. Kevin Brenlon (3169) 
Pierce ( 14Z4)/Pf2n ( 143Z) v. Power ( 1654)/Rlgali 4.) Fresno State (26-2) -Deja vu? Great record, Stateshould have cake walks to the regional title game. 
Tom O'Connor (8267) v. Tony Pierce ( 14Z4) 
(6764) Dave Yordy ( 3439) v. Tish Almeida ( 7859) nice ranking, but who'd they play? The 11th-ranked Red But then this is the NCAA Championship Tournament. 
Pineda (8717)/Shank (8717) v. Power 
Mark Cunneen ( 1841 )v. Dominic Trlcome ( 3075) Wave, who took a 25-3 slate into last year's tourney only Strange things happen, and heaven knows that it would
(3306)/Slmpoon (3370) 
Mark Quigley (3177) v.jack Eisenbeis( 1058) 
Calerlne ( 16ZI )lOUver (6801) v. Kasler to lose in Round One to Northeastern, faced only three be mighty strange for anyone but one of the top two
Mike Dealy ( 288-9636) v. Chris Halfie1d ( 1171) 
( 1818)/Hogan ( 1816) 
Gary Puck ( I 056) v. Matl Brach ( I 069) tournament teams this past season (Pepperdine, North­seeds to make it to the Final Four. But keep an eye on 
Mulligan (3345)/CaUahan (3361) v. Burton 
George La Chance (8175) v.)oe Slctglmeler (8273) 
(8284 )/Bruggeman (8292) ern Illinois and SW Louisianat_ FSU won the PCAA West Virginia, Iowa and (maybe) Pepperdine. 
continuedfrom page 12 
the 48-team field. Too many from one conference? If you want the best quality teams available, probably not. The Hawkeyes have played the toughest schedule of any team in this region, have Final Four experience, have been losing lately, but still could be a darkhorse. 
On the other bench will be the mighty Indians regular season title and the conference tournament. Their biggest asset, as you may have seen Sunday on CBS, is their fan support. Their fans are crazy! But are they wild enough to push their team through a win over West Virginia? 

After disposing of Mid Eastern Conference champ North Carolina A & T ( 19-8) tonight, the Mountaineers could mount a charge in this region. West Virginia ( 26­
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, 
either in person or through the mail. 




Classifieds 
NOTICES DO YOU NEED A GOOD HAIRCUT? GUYS $4, GIRLS $6 CALL MICHOLE AT  LOST: Stiver SEIKO watch lost Wed. night Mar. 3 outs>de Senior Bar or in Campus View parking lot. If found, please call Rich at 277-7536 or bring to Campus View, bldg. 54655, Apt. 202.  PLUSH VAN NEEDS RIDERS TO LAUDERDALE! CALL KEITH 3507 DAVE 1103 The 921 Party-Bago is heading South for Break via Alanta. Gainesville, Orlando,  d. p.s.ouch! what's that back there? it hurts hey, let's take it in the rear entrance ..  GOING BACK TO MIAMI! Hey Dan! I did it again! HRUSRN  Don Mcuurln, The Arkansas Wonder. we·re proud of You!J We will be in your corner! Good Luck Tonight!!! Love, Frances, Chris, & Mary  
7951  LOST: 4 KEYS on a GOLD NATIONAL  and pomts south. We are negotiable.  RICHARD CARNELL  Get psyched for an awesome break! I'll  
THROWING A 50s OR 60s PARTY (OR SOMETHING ALONG THE SAME LINES) IN THE NEAR FUTURE? TIRED OF USING THE SAME OLD SONGS FROM "ANIMAL HOUSE", AND INFERIOR REMAKES OF THE REAL THINGS?  SCIENCE MUSEUM"" Keychain. Probab­ly lost in the Dillon-South Dining Hall Area. If found, please calf Dan at t 729 -Thanks I! I LOST $50 BILL IN NORTH DINING HALL ON SUNDAY. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL LINDA: 2948.  CCall233-2969 for further information. RIDERS to OMAHA, NE. 3/12 to 3/21. 289-6519 ride to Mn. Jane 2117 Need nde west on 1-90 to Rockford or  1"11 miss you for the Flonda drive. Hve fun in California. Gtve Tam1 and Man my love, Lil Sts, Kandi BEAVER The BARN awatts  miss you alii Mrs. Hutton LAST YEAR'S UMOC, MIKE "GORGAR" GURDAK, IS BACK AND UGLIER THAN EVER TO DEFEND HIS  Kenneth Boucher. We hope you have a day filled with un­bounded happiness We wanted to form­ulate our wtshes matheattcally but happiness is an undefined term tn mathe­matics. Or don·t you agree? First Year Math Grads  
Well, you never have to worry about  O'hare or Union Station Call Ed 1 068  CHARLIE  TITLE. GOLDFISH AND DOMERS WITH  
that agam ..wrth T.N.T. RECORD SERVICES. They w1ll supply you wtth records from the large T. N.T. Record Library tor your theme party_ at reasonable rates. This serv1ce was recently used at a party at St. Ed"s wtth favorable results .maybe 11 can make your party a little dtfferent (or. heaven for­bid, better). Call Tim at 283-1536 after break for more detatls. (ND-SMC on-campus parties only please. with certain excep­tions) LEGAL EXPERIENCED TYPIST: 272­5337 Congratulations Wattmg For Now ­1982 Nazz Music Competition wtnners Tim, Jimmy. Scotty. Bill, and Rob -1f you ever need any help carrytng all that heavy eqUipment to a gig, PLEASE call on your devoted followers from second floor Regina. We are proud to serve you guys! SECOND FLOOR REGINA SALUTES TIM KEYES -THE FLASHIEST PIANIST OF THEM ALL-SCOTTY O"GRADY-THE MAN WITH THE HOT­TEST LICKS 0 THEM ALL -BILL GER­GIN AND ROB LLOYD -THE GUYS WITH GIRLFRIENDS -AND JIMMY KEYES -THE ONE WITH THE FAS­TEST FINGERS OF THEM ALL!!!!! CON­GRATULATIONS ON THE BIG NAZZ WIN GANG!! SMIC IS WAITING FOR NOW""!!!  FOUND: Wooden cross rosary wtth large brown beads at Stepan Center on Sunday HEY YOU WITH THE NEED RIDERS morning. Call Louie at 234-6470 to claim. TO TOLEDO" ERSONAL; I NEED A RIDE BUT YOU DIDN'T GIVE YQUR NUMBER-CALL ME AT 8865 FOR RENT I .......····· -----. L..--.------t....... I FOR SALE Student housing-clean. safe. $1 00/mo. L-----------....l 291-1405. USED & OUT -PRINT BO(}KS bought, Two furnished 5 bedroom houses near sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. ND. Available next school year and sum­Tues-Sunday, 12-6. 1027 E. Wayne (One mer. 234-2626. block south of Eddy-Jefferson intersec­tion.) TWO BEDROOM APARTMENT . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ' ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . AVAILABLE NOW. 233-7631 USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED., SAT SUN. 9-7. CASPERSON 1303 Be your own boss. Comfortable BUCHANAN RD .. NILES. bedroom. comPletely furnished house tor 5 or 6. Close to campus. Phone 288-3942. 82-83 school yr. 4 bdrm.,close to PERSONALS campus.furn..excel.cond.,call 287-5361 after6 p.m. LA-USC CLASS OF 831NVADES!!! Avatl.tmmed.. 4 bdrm.,close to campus.excel.cond., call 287-5361 after Jr. Class of "83 Irs you and me at USC 6p.m Stgn up now and JOin the lun The game. the beach and California s sun!! deposits March24-25 JUNIORS plan now -Sr. tnp depositSWANTED March 24-25 $50 Califorma here we come!!  MARCELAINE, Is Florida really going to have STEIL (style)??? Kandi COONEY. HAVE A NICE BREAK_! THE BEAN Hey John B. While I am gone taken 1n some some down in MIAMI, PLEASE lie for me. YOUR SWEETMATES Hey John B. THINK PINK YOUR SWEETMATES Hey Jersey Boys. I hope you all Will be able to be able to see the sun during BREAK! THE FLORIDA KID Hey Anzona BOY. You are a MOFACKY! The Alcoholic Hey John B .. You he like a rug!  WEAK STOMACHS -BEWAREitlf Question: WHO IS UGLIER THAN MIKE "GORGAR" GURDAK ? Answer: NOBODY ALfVEitlltl MIKE "GORGAR" GURDAK FOR UMOC!Ifllltllll NOBODY ALIVE MAYBE ....BUT IS MUSUMECI REALLY ALfVE???Ifl "U"S FOR UGLY AND GURDAK'S ON­LYGOTONEIIf MUSUMECI FOR UMOC!flll MUSUMECI FOR UMOCIIIII MUSUMECI FOR UMOCIIIIf JEFF LINDHOLM: Do you read the per­sonals? Just checking .. HeyRabbtt: So is it true you multiply like a rabbtt? Let us hope so. Now you can forget about your denvatives for days. Ry Dave. MAY YOUR BREAK BE FILLED WITH WOMEN WHO ARE ALL TALK SO YOU CAN HAVE A GOOD CONVERSATION. SORRY, /"LL BE WAITING TO HEAR THE STORIES YOU WON"T HAVE TO TELL. I WONT INTERRUPT. SILENTLY LAUGHING ....,. .. JEB CASHIN IS TED OZARK!!!! JEB CASHIN IS TED OZARK!!!! JEB CASHIN IS TED OZARK!!!! JEB CASHIN IS TED OZARK!!'!  To the Handsome Angel of our Dept.. Happy Butcher"s -oops!-Happy Birth day!Listen -even Linus lets go of his blanket on his b'day.So let go and have fun! A lazy fore1gner. Tom Jackman: Edmund Curl! has a fOb for you. p.s. Have you been sleeping with Cfoac1na? Rab: How many hands do you know? p.s. My snowball is btgger than yours. p.s.s.EnJOY break! CAN THE TURTLE CATCH UP? trS LIKELY SINCE THE HARE IS CAUGHT IN AN APPROACH-APPROACH CON­FLICT: CARROTS OR A MARTINI? Maktng CLEVELAND Proud ­Tim Con­nolly & Dan Flannery as Howard Hall's Pres. & VP Congrats guys! Love KF DAN Sorry. no byline. but thank you so much for helpmg me w1th the storyll! What else can I say -I owe you one . Your fellow 1ournallst. Michele  
YOU KNOW. LIKE I"M SURE THAT WEIRDSVILLE ACTION IS JUST TOO FUNNY' OR WAS IT NERD ACTION?  Need ride to Houston Texas, for spnng break. If you are headed in that direction please call Ttmo at 1782.  smerd ... is socially inept.  Hey NEW YORKER Have a ROARING ttme in Fla Your LIONESS (Sneak)  An Tostal's Stuff Simon·· (update) fve gotten hve letters so far! (Thanks  CONGRATS MARY KAREN! YOU'LL BE A TERRIFIC R.A.I HOW CAN YOU FAIL WITH YOUR OL' CUZ AS A ROLE MODEL?! LOVE YA, CUZ  
LOST/FOUND PLEASE NOTICE: I lost a betge fur­collared coat at the South dmmg hall on 2/22/82. Coat of canvas-like mmaterial and made by MAINE GUIDE. Any In­formation leading to my getttng 1t back will be rewarded. Please call Kev1n at 1103. Thank you. LOST: A black standard poodle 1n the vicmity of St. Joe·s Hosp1tal. Reward! Please call 232-6736 or 232-5971 wtth any information. LOST: ID AND FOUR KEYS ON-A BACARDI KEY RING AT SENIOR BAR ON MY 21 ST. BIRTHDAY. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL LINDA AT 2948. lost; dark blue scarf probably lost 1n LIFE Science Bldg; if found call 5574 ask for Sam or leave message.  RIDE NEEDED to Dallas,TX or Shreveport.LA Please call289-8955 Ride needed to DAYTON, OHIO for spnng break. I can leave any time PLEASE call Donna at 6771 EMERGENCYIII Ride needed to either Ridgewood, N'.J., or Nyack N.Y. on or after March 12. Will share expenses and driving time-calf 284-5127. I NEED RIDERS TO JOE LOUIS ARENA IN DETROIT FOR THE CCHA PLAYOFFS. 4 SPOTS ARE OPEN. CALL BRIANAT1892. DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO OHARE ON THURSDAY AFTERNOON OR EARLY EVENING---WILL SHARE USUAL---CALL CHRIS AT 1678 ANYTIME. NEED RIDE TO OHARE AIRPORT ON FRIDAY AFTERNOON OR EARLY EVE­NING WILL SHARE USUAL---CALL OWEN AT 1678 ANYTIME.  HOLLYWOOD GALA Hollywood Gala HOLLYWOOD GALA!!! OFF CAMPUS STUDENTS, STORE YOUR VALUABLES WITH A FRIEND OVER BREAK ITS SPRING BREAK. YOU"RE IN FLORIDA. DO YOU KNOW WHERE YOUR BELONGINGS ARE. (HOPEFULLY NO ONE ELSE DOES!) CLASS OF '82: QUESTIONS CONCERNING SENIOR FORMAL CAN BE ANSWERED AT IN­FORMATION BOOTHS SET UP IN LAFORTUNE AND LEMANS LOBBIES ON MON-TUES-WED 11 A.M. TO 2 P.M. GET CLUES ON SENIOR FORMAL MON-TUES-WED 11-2 IN LAFORTUNE ANDLEMANSI so that"s what they do w1th the competent.  HOLLYWOOD GALAI HOLLYWOOD GALA HOLLYWOOD GALA DMILY Hollywood Gala. Hollywood Gala. Hol­lywood. Gala. THE CIRCUS IS COMING TO SOUTH QUAD. ONLY 22 MORE DAYS If RIDERS NEEDED TO FLORIDA: CALL ED 8828 OSCAR 0. turns 19 today. If you see h1m on campus be sure to give him a B-day kiSS!!!! Help! Desperately need nde to D.C. for break. Wtll share expenses. Call Bnan 4521. GSC Have a great Spnng Break. I'm gon­ Dtana. Shultsy, John, Yoko. and Col­leen!!!) Be 1n the cartoons by sending 1 )name. 2)phoio. and 2)address to: "Stuff Simon" BoxQ The Observer Pamplernousse. Everything IS a con­spiracy! Honey, You can be sure your weddmg cake wtll be a great surpnse We'll work alit! lt"s more than 1n the a1r !!! Richard, Next year won't be the vacation you·re having in Europe ! Say h1 to everyone, mclud1ng Ulla! See you 1n June ! HELLO CHERYL, lfs nice s1tt1ng by you at th1s terminal!!!! Hang 1n there until we get to run the BEST program.(hint) PARTY DAVE  DEAR KELLI. CATHY, DAVE, MAR­GARET, BOB AND DAVES.: WORKING WITH YOU HAS BEEN THE GREATEST BUT YOU HAVENT GOTTEN RID OF ME YET! GOOD LUCK WITH EVERYTHING AND REMEMBER I"M HERE IF YOU NEED ME THE SAINT MARY"S EDITOR EMERITUS Karen. Thanks for understanding that frustra­tions. late night phone calls, and all the other 1rntat1ons of my hfe. You·re the best roommate anyone could ever ask for! Love, Yourroom1e JEFF LINDHOLM: Have a super break! And catch some of those Flonda rays for me ­Iowa may be a vacation parad1se. but I won't come back w1th a ran! Your favonte scapegoat  
LOST: AN "83 CLASS RING (BLUE SPINEL, QP) IF FOUND, PLEASE RETURN TO GILDA. (x 8098) REWARD: LOST GOLD NECKLACE WITH CROSS AT CAMPUS VIEW POOL SENTIMENTAL VALUE. Please ca/1283-8954  HELP!! Need ride to DAYTON (U.D.) , Leaving 3/12 Will share usual Call KEVIN at 1658 TYPING 28 years as a secretary-excel­lent typist, retired. $1.00/page call Phyllis 259-2501.  dedtcated people here . play mud games -neat!!! what? dnnk? noooo -why, i enJOY peon status -what better thing to work unbelievable hours for. at sweatshop wages ...hell, we only do it for the money! a loser  na miss yal Love, Mom the sleaze Stephen: Whtle you·re enJoytng the sun. sand, and surf. you·d better remember (when you sober up) to send my postcard -sun1an lotion, et. al. the white rabbit  WHAT THE HECK IS A PARTY MARSHMELLOW???? When the ul· ttmate 1n PARTY IS needed PARTY DAVE is the only one that can fill the need. A marshmallow only gets hard when it dries up!!!! BEWARE -The infamous Vanian  SPIKE LATZ WILL CONOUERII!!I!! SUZAN. IS IT TRUE YOU HAVE A MOLE ON YOUR CHEST??? ANGELO,GOOD LOOK IN THE FIGHT  
LOST: Tl-25 CALCULATOR LOST SOMETIME LAST WEEK. IF FOUND  RIDERS NEEDED TO DAYTONA LEAVING FRIDAY. CALL HELEN 1317  Cheryl, How does one prepare the turtle soup  Ralph Bernard Carolln:  PARTY DAVE is planning his return to Jotown to get recharged with the fellow  TONIGHT. LOVE, LAURA AND MARY ALICE.  
PLEASE CALL DAVE I. AT 3546. Lost: One blue and white duffle bag.iett in the south dining hall Thursday night. Please return to Mike at x8328.  ORANGEL1272. Need ride to/from Muskegon/Grand Rapids for break. (leave Fri.) Call Pat x3384.  served by GOODWILL? Just remember to heat ii slowly until boiling so it won·r get burned. Have a feast over break!!! A stewed rabbit  My friend has a cat named Ralph. Jodi p.s. I had a great time Sa1urday night.  SOUSEMASTERS. He"s new. Has im­proved, Has going to be reboozed----­PARTY DAVE. Beware his return to Souse Bend after break for more im­proved PARTY action.  TO PUCLATS You·re nght -Idtdn"t thtnk you would do it! Thanks so much. Have a great break and L YLS! From the Cham­pton Breakfast Eater.  
... ········  ....... .  

.
... 

The Observer-Sports Special-NCAA Track Championships Thursday, March ll, 1982 page,9 

Spurts Writer 
Jim Moyar is llnally "coming into 
his own." The 6-1 junior math major 
from Dowm·r~ C.rove. Ill., was 
injured his frt·shman year and ran in 
the shadow of ali-Ameril'an Chuck 
Aragon la~t yl·ar. Uut Moyar won't be 
abk to ding to his anonymity much 
longc·r. 
Ileal( Coach .Joe l'ianc, who is not 
~iv~·n to u~ing ~uperlativt:s, says, 
"This yt:ar he's just het:n t/J'Iltllllitl!! 
"Tht:re aren't many people who 
run more ~moothly thanJim \toyar," 
adds Piane." Med1anically he's very 
good." 
St·nior tri-captain Jacques Eady 
also likes Moyar's style. "This year he 
look~ so relaxed, so cool wht:n he's 
running -even when he'.~ kicking 
pt·ople's butts," Eady says, "t·vt:n 
wht:n he puts on a move to pass 
somt·body ht: stays rclaxt·d. This 
year he has contributed so many 
points to the team -he's added to 
many relays and distance mnlleys." 
For t·xample, Moyar ran a 4:05.5 
mile as the anchor leg of Notre 
Dame's distan<.·e medley unit at the 
Ct·ntral Collt:giatc Championships. 
Moyar hadn't yt:t lost a race 
halfway through the indoor season, 
wht:n he faced Indiana's premier 
collegiate milcr, Jim Spivey, at the 
Big State Mt:et lilUr weeks ago. 
Moyar and Piant· figurt·d that they 
might be able to "steal" tht: race 
from Spivey if Moyar opened up a 
hig mough It:ad at the start. 
"Spivey figured out what was 
happl·ning after about 30 seconds," 
says .Moyar. "It was good for me, 
though, bt:caust· the rest ofthe race I 
didn't have to worry about strategy 
and just had to hang on." Moyar 
stayt·d dose enough to Spivey to run 
an NCAA-qualifying 2:09.5 in tht· 
I000-yard t:vent ami tlnish second 
to Spivt·y's blistt·ring 2:07.H. 
"It was a great conlldenct: buildt:r for me," said tht· quktly confldt:nt junior, "and it was for Pianc." It st·cm~ that .\1oyar didn't doubt him­sdfli>r a minute. .\toyar credits train­ing with Aragon last }'l'ar as a conlldenn· buildn. "Whu1 you run with a guy like that and s~T how Ill' did nationally," explains Moyar, "you aren't so intimidated by super runnt:r~ from other schools. It's that mental dl'cct, I gul·ss." 
\toyar, however. i~ a realist and is apprehensin· about the NCAAs he· caust· of a nagging injury -a strainnl thigh muscle. "I was making pretty good progress this season un­til I Mrained my thigh musdt·. I've heen swimming and taking it prt·tty l·asy on th~· kg. training lightly. Tht: 
1000-mctcr run doesn't require a lot 

Championships cap successful track season 
ByEARLRIX m~·mtx·rs," says senior tri-captain Sports W'riter Jacques Eady, "rather than people who just put in time." The I982 Irish have more indoor This weekend's NCAA natill<~al in­
school records than any other class. door championships at the · ntiac 
The record breakers range from Silverdome will cap a very ~u n:s~­freshman Chuck Constable(6-10 ful Irish track season highli~,; .. : .·d by 
I/Z) in the high jump to senior Paul the consistently excelle111 per­Doyle ( 16-9) in the pole vault. fomances of the thrt:t: Irish \ICAA Other record breakers this year in­qualifers. Senior tri-captain Paul clude sophomores Ralph Caron Doyle is entered in tht: pol \'ault. ( 8:51.5) in two-mile, and Andy Dil· 
Junior .Jim Moyar is cntcn· 1 the Ion ( 13:51 ) in the three-mile, and 1000-yard run and his cl · nate, Greg Bell ( 24-6) in the long jump. Steve Dziabis, is cntt:rt•d in . 600­
Junior Steve Dziabis broke his -own yard dash. record in the 500-yard dash. Both team and individual pcrfi>r­
The team highlight might have manccs improvt·d Mc·adily, 
been the 12th place finish at last sometimes spectacularly, in an in­
wn·kend's prestigious IC4A meet in door season in which six different 
Princeton, N.J. Sixty teams com­school records wt:re brokcu. some 
peted and all contestants had to ofthem more than onc.:t:. Thnt: wt:rt: 
meet qualil)ring times. The Irish a lot of stars but Doylt:, Dziabis, and 
brought a largt· contingent and were Moyar stand out in particular. 
ont: of the few schools well "All of these guys art: real team 
represented in a variety ofevents. 


Pole vaulterDoyle
reachesnewheights 
body who could compete on a

ByEARLRIX you can stride out fully and might bt: 
Sports Writer 
national lcvd in any one event. It able to run as well as if you hadn't 
says a lot for him, not only as a pok been injured. I'm still apprchensiw Senior tri-captain Paul Doylt: has 
vaulta, but as an athlete. lit: can do about it. In the last few wct:ks it has always been a great all-around ath­
almost anything he wants to and do t:ffccted my time. If I wne healthy lt:tt:. The Ponland. Ort:., native 
itwdl." and running like thrt·e wt:eks ago, I boasts a personal best of 7, 5HO would be confident." points in tht: dccathalon. This vear 
\X'hatevt:r happt·ns at the NCAA's he has addt:d another dimensio~ to this weekend, it appear~ that ~1oyar his athktic.: skills -superb perfi>r­'He's a steaf~Y in­has a prombing career ahead of him. manct:s in one en·nt in addition to 
fluence on the team.' 

"lie can be very gt)()d. I think he can his solid all-around dutic~. His I 6-H n1n I:49 in the half mile and four tlat .V4 pok vault has qualified him for in tht: mile," says Pianc. "He's got a the NCAA championships. lot of work and good races ahead of ''I'm suprised somn..-hat h\' Paul's 
On Ft·bruary 5, versus Marqut·tte,

·him before he can run that. ~tore ex­performance," says fellow. NCAA he brokt· the M.:hool record hy vault­
perience is the crudal factor." qualifier Stcvt: Dziabis. "I guess l'vl· ing 16-1 1/-t. On February 12, he
He should get a big dose of it this always lookt:d at Paul as an all­broke hi~ own rt:cord with a 16-:\
weekend. around athlctt: ratlll'r than some-vault at the State Championships. The following wtTk, when he upped the Notre Dame mark to 16-H 3/4 at the CCC's, he also qualified fi>r the NCAA National Indoor Chamion­
ships at the Pontiac Silverdomt: this wt:t•kend.

Competitive Dziabisinfluencessquad 
"It was really nice to st:e Paul hit ByEARLRIX 
team bt:cause. "In thc.: big meets we finals in order to get into tht: "fast" that 16-H 3/4," said senior tri­
Sports Writer 

need a superstar like Steve Dziabis." final heat. Because Dziabis had al­captain Jacques Eady. "When he did Dziahis has paid ·his dues in full ready run thrt:c races and had two it the whok place exploded. I think When Steve Dziahis ran a I :02.4 
more ahead of him. Kelly told he'll do wt:ll in nationals -I think500-mett:r dash to tlnish third at last "lk's just done it right," says Kelly. 
"He made a decision over the sum-Dziabis not to t·xtcnd hi mst:lf and to he can gt:t 17 ti:t:t." 
weekend's IC4A championships, he mer to be as good as he: could possib· "just bring tlu: stick in second." Paul's teammatt:s and coaches fed ran what may have been one of the 
ly he. His performance has been a Dziabis didn't set:m to understand that ht: is capable of vaulting even tlnest races in Notre Dame track his­
real tribute to the dedication and his coach, howcvt:r,"lts a ditkrt·nt higher. Says teammate Jim Moyar, tory. The time shaved a full second c.:ommitmt:nt he's had this \Tar. He's feeling when you're not told to "It's amazing tht· progress he's madt• off of Dziabis' own school rt:cord in 
gradually grown in confid.enc.:e and come in first. Something inside of in tht: vauh in such a short time and I the event and was a full 0:01.25 fas-
awareness of his own potential." me decided I wasn't going to he think he'll go much hight:r than he ter than the NCAA qualifying stan­
Senior tri-captain Jacques Eadv second, so I did alii could to beat tht: has already." dard at that distanct:. Sprint coach 
says,"He works I 20 pcrn·nt eva~· guy." Coach Kdly t·c.:hoe~ Moyar's st·nti­Kelly said it was comparablt: to 
day. He dot:s the distance. Although \\'hat Dziabis didn't mention was mt:nts. "I think ht· is caahk of 17 Notrt: Dame Olympian Rick Wol­
he's a junior, he's like a senior. that the guy he beat was the national ft·t·t. Kelly also fcds that Doyk has a hutcr's I969 600-yard run record of 
People look up to him. He'll not onlv champion in tht: 600-meters two chance of placing at nationals I :09.4. 
-do his own workout, but he'll push years ago. Dziabis was handed the despite the tough competition. "Tht: "People can't rdate to a 500-you. too." baton ahead of the \laryland runner pole.: vault at tht· NCAA's is a strangt· meter time," says Kelly. "It was un-
Dziabis takes his running and his (thanks to Eady. \1itch Van Eyken. event wh~·n· anything can happen," 
•questionably a big-kague studies very seriously, and he works and Bill Ribera). but was thch sud­says Kelly "Thert· will be a lot of pt:rformance. He passt:d the quarter nervous guys out there and there arc
hard at both. At the bt:ggining of the denly cut off by him. Kt:lly says,
mark in a timt: of 4H.O." Kcllv's
1 summer, however, he decided to somewhat amused. "Steve was always a number of grt·at vaultt:rs feelings about tht: 6-3, IH'i pound 1 d' who do nothing.
l e ~c.: ate all of his extra energies into tickt:d oft' and he waited until tht·y
·unior (Jre-med maJ'or ar•· s.·tr(>ng k
J ~ trac ·,"I made up my mind that I was came off the next lap and passed him. "If you can jump I 7 fet·t in till' ones," I'm as proud of Stcvt: Dziabis going to give it alii had, and sec what up and came in first." preliminaries, you usually qualify filr as any athlete I've t:vt:r coached," 1could do. Dziabis and his coach, Kelly. are rhe finals," says Kdl)'. "lfPaulmakn says Kt:lly. 
both confident that Stevt: will run it into the finals. I think he'll place:Last weekend dt:monstrates how "What 1 mt:an wht·n I say that is 
that I decided to get up in the morn-his bt:st at the NCAA indoor national Gt:tting past I 7 fct:t in the strong a runner Stevt: Dziahis has 
ing and run three miles before championships at tht· Pontiac Sil­preliminaries will he the tough bt:t:n this st:ason. His rt:cord­
part." hreaking 500-mctcr ract: was his 
classes, do those extra weight verdomc: this weckend."When I 
workouts, and t:verything else the went to the NCAA's as a freshman, I Last year \\'as sort of a transition second rat't: that day and his fifth 
coach rt:commended to get me to didn't know what to expect. Now I fi>r th~· 2.)-yt:ar old transkr student that weekend. lie also ran the mile 
the level at which I can compete know what to expect and can dt·al from the Univt·rsity of Ort·gon. As a rday llnal after tht· 500 to make it six 
with anyone. Last yt:ar I really hadn't with it better," said the runner who transft:r student he was not digihk
rat"CS in two days. 

made a dc.:dsion as to what I wanted says he almost didn't run track fresh­for the NCAA's, and ht: was injured The North Manchester, Ind. 
to do or accomplish. Hecaust: ofthat, man year because he didn't think he prior to the Drakl· rdays -his onl}' nativt: abo boasts a .).7 grade I never got around to do all the ex­would bt: ablt: to c.:ompett:. A couplt: opportunity that season to average. Thne is a danger. howevt:r. 
tras you need to do in order to com­}'t:ars of hard work culminating in dt·monstrate his prowess in the to dismiss Dziahis as just another pelt: with all the top runners," says solid, consistent. and now record­dt:cathalon. 
sdmlar-athekte. lk is a great athlete 
Dziabis. breaking pt:rti>nnances have "lie's a steadying influence on the and a lim· scholar. llis running 
Coach Kelly cites an t:xample changed his mind. "My coach is tt:l­tt:am," says Kelly, "and remt:mher stand~ fully on its own merit. 
from last weekend's IC4A mt:et toil­ling me I'm r~·ady to go there and run he's primarily a decathelett: and his Tt·ammatt· anti ft:llow NCAA 
lustrate Dziabis' competitivcnt·ss. wt:ll, and that includes placing." sucn·ss in the pok vault is merely qualitlt:r.Jim Moyar says that Steve is 
Notre Danlt: needed onlv to takt: Neither Dziabis nor anyone else has icing on the cake." the most valuable athlete on tht: 
second plact: in tht: mile r~lay semi· reason to doubt him. -Happy Birthday, Paul. 
The Observer -Sports Thursday, March 11, 1982-page 10 
Mideast Regionalpreview 


Numbers point toVirginia 
Let's get one thing straight right off the bat -I've only seen six of the 12 teams in the Mideast'Regional play. 
In other words, I haven't a clue as to what the other six arc capable ofdoing. 
I only know numbers -records and scores and an occaisional average or two. I don't know talent, simply because I haven't seen halfofit. That's something you'll have to judge for yourself, should your team make it far enough to attract the cameras ofCBS. 
So then, all pretenses aside, here arc the numbers. 
Virginia's Cavaliers are the top seed in this regional, which only makes sense, since they were the top team in the country for a good part of the year. 
UVa.'s star is one of the more recognizable people around, which makes things kind ofwugh on him, espe· dally when he's got his uniform on -he alwavs draws a crowd. And yet sometimes, even a crowd isn"'t cnough to stop Ralph "Stick" Sampson, votcd hv Basketball Weekly, among others, as college baskcto~ll's player of the year. 
Sampson's mere presence causes trouble for other teams: try to stop him, and chances arc that one of his supporting cast (6-8 Craig Robinson, 6-8Jim Miller, 6-4 Jeffjones and 6-0 Othell Wilson) will beat you; concccd him his points and stop everybody else, and he may score IOO all by himself. Either way, it's a no-win situa­tion, which explains why just two teams, Maryland and North Carolina, were lucky cnough to beat the Cavs. In Maryland's ca,sc, luck and Cole Field House were about the only things they had going for them. 
I'm rambling. I'll try to watch that as I head North. 
.Minnesota was awarded the second seed in the regional. The Golden Gophers trounced Ohio State this weekend to clinch the championship ofthe Big Ten, but they never would have been that close if Iowa hadn't pulled a second consecutive "Let's pretend we're DePaul" imitation. 
The Gophers consist ofa skyscrapper and a skywalker and a coach -and little else. Randy Breuer, all 7-2 of him, is capable ofdominating a game, especially against players like Granville Waiters, Ohio State's senior ­and I do mean senior -center. But if Breuer and his mates reach the finals of the region, he'll find himself among an ever-growing list of big people who have been taken to school by the man everybody says is lt:aving his. 
Trent Tucker. a 6-S swingman who is capable. of doing his swinging from the rafters, is an all-conference performer, and jim Dutcher is an all-conference coach, and both are capable of leading the Gophers across a couple borders into the promised land, but they'll have to do some scheming if they plan to get by Virginia. 
Denny Crum's Louisville Cardinals got the third seed in the Mideast, and to tell you the truth. I'm still trying to figure out how. They did not win the Metro Con­fen:nce tournament, nor did they win the league's regular season. With a record of 20-9, they deserve to make the tournament, but not as the number third seed. 
I forgot. Numbers. 

Louisville played eight NCAA tournament teams this season, and lost to five of them. The wins came against Penn (oh-boy), St. John's ( uh-oh) and Marquette (at last, a real team). About the best thing one can say about Louisville's place in the bracket is that thcy will finally (barring the unthinkable) get a chance to play Ken­tucky. Believe it or not, the two schools have never 
.r· played against each other. No Darryl Griffith's will step on the court for Crum this time. There are no stars. and the Cardinals are no Cinderella Probably the best thing about Louisville is that they will get Billy Thompson, only the best high school basketball player in the country, next year. The University of Alabama at Birmingham -UAB or the othcr Alabama for short -is seeded fourth, but thev have t a legitimatt: shot at winning the regional and trap~­ing off to New Orlc:ans. You have to give them con· sideration, considering (that was cute) that the tournament is bcing held in Birmingham. It's called neutrality, I think. 

UAB. by the way, was 23-S this season, and won both the regular season and the tournament in the Sun Belt Conference. 
Indiana is the tlfth seed, and I'm not so sure I agree with that. They are !n the tournament, though, and that I agree with. As defending champs, the Hoosiers deserve to have the chance to let somebody take their title away from them. which is probably going to happen unless they get hot again. 
I could tell you that Indiana was 18-9 and finished in a second-place tie with Iowa and Ohio State in the Big Ten and won its last three games, but I don't need to, not with the coach they have. Because you see, Bobby Knight is like Budweiser. 
Kentucky lost five times, but still managed to tie for first place in the Southeastern Conference with Tennes­see, the team seeded ninth in the regional. The,Wildcats have talent, despite being minus one Sam Bowie. Melvin Turpin has filled in just tine, which makes me wonder what that team is going to be like next year, w.hen it has Bowie and Turpin in the lineup at the same time. Only awesome. And only next year. They may get by Robert .Morris (for the sake ofJoe B. Hall's mental health, they better), and they might have enough talent to ~cat Louisville and Minnesota, but the buck stops with Ralph, and so will Kentucky's parade. 
The other teams -North Carolina State, Southwest Louisiana, Tennessee the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga and Middle Tennessee ( allright, who snuck the governor on the selection committee) ~ would have to be listed as dark horses. 
The winner of all this? Probably Virginia. The Cavs should make their second consecutive trip to the Final Four and may even make the tlnals, since North Carolina, the team that beat them twice this year, the team that knocked them offin the scmitlnals last year, is in the other bracket. 
If they do get that far. somebody will undoubtedly come up with something witty like "Play it again, Sam." Get it. Sam. as in Sampson. 
I know. Numbers. 

continuedfrompage 12 
ships.'' The dub will have two more dual meets before the April l 7 tournament. 
GYMNASTIC CLUB IMPRESSIVE AT CHICAGO -Don't let Notre Dame-Saint Mary's loss to Chicago in both men and women's competition last Saturday foul you. The scoreboard does not usually tell the whole story. · 
"It was our best meet of the year," says club president Brian .McLaughlin. "Our people were really hitting their routines well. .and although the scoring by the judges was inconsistent, we posted most ofour best scores of the year." 
The women's tcam can especially hold their hcads up with pride despite their 64.4S-"i4.6 final defecit to Chicago for which sophomore star Denise .McHugh was absent due to illness. Freshman Cindy Salvino had her finest meet of the year by placing 2nd out of nine women in the all-around com­petition with a 23. I") score in only three of 

,. 
With Ralph Sampson leading Virginia, the Cavaliers are almost a sure bet to ad­vance to the Final Four. Mark Hannuksela previews the Mideast Regional at left. (Photo byjohn Macor) 

Ralph! 
the four events. Salvino placed second in both the floor excercise and uneven bars with respective scores of8.SS and 7.1, while placing third in the vault with a 7.S score. Saint Mary freshman Megan Zillig had the best individual finish in an event with a first plat·e 8.4S score in the vault. Yet another freshman, Kathy Wolter, had a tine meet as she placed second in the balance beam with a 7.SS score and third in the floor excercise with an 8. I finish. Saint Mary sophomore Laura Bach placed fourth in the floor ex­cercise with a tlnal result of7.3S. 
The men's team lost 145.4-112.08 to Chicago, but also had its share of fine in­dividual scores. Senior Brian McLaughlin did not top any of his teammates in any in­dividual events, but his outstanding ver· satility in all six events earned him a second place finish out of 18 men in the all-around 
...Comer 
division with a 36.65 score. junior Ed Barret scored a 6. 7S in the high-bar competition for a third place tlnish. Freshman Tom Treat finished fourth in the floor excercise with an 
8.1 result, while McLaughlin and junior Randy Kelly had the same fourth place tlnishes and 8. I scores in the vault. 

BenpiBoub Championoblp Round Fint march a1 7:30p.m.. 
135 pounds-Hillsman v..\td.aurin 140 pounds-~arterstet·k v. Serge 145 pounds -Clark v. un 150pounds-~laiknik v. ~rawski 155 pounds -llonuvan v. Bulkit 160 pounds-Brophy v. lusing 165 pounds -Perino v. <:rook 175 pounds -Burke v. Sassano Heavyweight -\X'alsh v. Andn:ini Super Heavyweight -uBbnc v. Panclli 



I I I I' I 

I Free keg • Contests • On the beach, Las Olas & I 1 AlA Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 
I . 
~--------------------------------------------J 
-----~--------~---~--~-----~-----~~-------------~,.......­
j
.._ i' 
Ihe~rver======================~================= 
~~~~~============================T=h=u=r=s=da=y='=M=a=r=ch==l=l='=l9=8=2===p=a=g=e=l=l
\1olarity \1ichael \1olinelli 


so I il>LP HEll; 11lAT SH£ CDV/..D ~D8A81-Y TIIINK DF SDH£11/IN6r BCIT"EI\ lb PD THA~ WJ'lTCH TEL£V/SIDN 



l)oonesbury Garry Trudeau 
Wl'RE AU SO R£1../E.VEIJ 
THf-OPfiRATION WA<; A 


1180/JT INCJ.IJP/111:7
SiJCC£SS, lJOC ~/A/HOI£ 

11/AJW< a/OW.. !i!£VISION5 ? 
/ I

Jeb Cashin
Sitnon 


~-­

::::-: .. ~ ~-· 
ACROSS 25 Little 43 Happen 13 Book of McCormick's ones: suff. 44 Cut Judaic lore invention 26 Smooth 45 Formerly, and law 
The Daily Crossword 
7 Heightens breathing once 15 More 13 Assessment 27 Lord or 47 No mere profound scale vassal talker 20 Life 14 Listed by 29 Ailments 48 Glinted 23 Money for 

location 31 Discuss in 49 Dismiss in Miguel 16 Prevented a meeting disgrace 26 Slight 17 Betrothed 32 Retroac· 51 Takes error 
one lively advantage 27 Highland 
18 Stringed 34 Means of 53 Betrayal lakes instruments using 54 Most 28 Division of old computer vinegary word 
19 Telephone 36 Blissful 55 Orientals 30 Former name state 56 Diggers mates 21 Sharper's 39 Phony 31 Well· 
victim 40 Pot start· DOWN planned 22 Jeer ers 1 Italian crime 23 Ailments 41 Take steps dish 33 Looking 24 Drain of 42 Monk's 2 Certain gym ahead, as 
strength title sessions a policy 3 Turkish 34 Influence 
W'nlncsday's Solution liquor: var. 35 Italian 4 Dabs of marble butter 37 The social 5 Summer freeze in Lyon 38 Bear 6 Raccoon· witness hunting 40 Oaks for dogs tomorrow 7 Robs from 43 Oldtime a safe theater 8 Indigo 44 Beach plants 46 Siamese 9 Greek peak 48 Twirled 10 Transmit 50 "A rose­
©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 3/18/82 
11 Game alibi rose" 
All Rights Reserved 

12 Trickling 52 Me in Mar· 3/18/81 leak seilles 
Campus 
• 
12: I 0 p.m. -Noontalk, '"Visconti: Tht· Count of Virtues'". Edith Kirst·h. Obt:rlin Collt:gc. Annen· berg Auditorium. Sponsored by Snit~: \1ust:um of Art 

• 
I 2: I 'i p.m. -Lenten Mass, Father Griffin. C.S.C., Bast·mcnt of LaFortune 


' 
•·•:50 
p.m. -Meeting, Sigma Xi Annual Business \kcting. University Club. All members wdcomc 

• 
.., p.m. -Film, '"EI Salvador: Country in Crisis", Carroll llall. Saint \1ary's Colkgt·. Sponsored hy The Central American Awareness \1t"dia Series 

•H 
p.m. -Recital, \1orris Taylor. LaFortune l.ink Theatre 


T.V. Tonight 
7:00p.m. 16 :\IASII 
22 CBS N~:ws 
28 Joker's Wild 
34 Th~: .:\lacNl"ii/Ll"hrer Rl"port 
46 Rt"\'. David Paul 
7:30p.m. 16 The \luppt·t Show 
22 Family Ft·ud 
2!1 Tic Tac Dou!(h 
34 Strai!(ht Talk 
46 \X \'. (;rant 
8:00p.m. 16 America's Batt it' with Crinw 
22 \lagnum P.l 
211 Johnny Cash l'amily Spl"eial 
34 ~nt·ak Prl"Vit·ws 
46 Ll"Ml"r Sumrall Tt·adling 
!1:30 p.m. 34 This Old IIoust· 
46 Paut·rn For Living 
9:00p.m. 16 l>itfrt·nt Strokt·, 
22 Knots Landing 
34 Austin City Limits 
46 Today with Lestt·r Sumrall 
22 Family Fl"ud 
10:00 p.m. 16 llill Strt't"t Blut·s 22 :-.Jurst· 46 Jal"k Van lmpt· 
10:30 p.m. 34 Training Dogs The Woodhoust" War 46 Faith For Today 
11:00 p.m. 16 :'1/ewsCt·ntt·r 16 22 221'yt·witnl"" :'llt·ws 28 :'1/nnwatt·h lH 34 The Dick CaVl"!! Sho\\ 46 Praist· The Lord 
11:30 p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 :'1/CAA llaskt·thall: Tt·ams TllA 28 ABC :'llt·ws :'1/ightlinl" 34 Capti<mt·d ABC :'1/t'W' 
12:00 a.m. 28 \'t"gas 46 Lt·,tt·r Sumrall Tt·adling 
12:30 a.m. 16 Late :-.Jight With Davidl.l"!!t·rman 28 \'ega' 46 Sharing 
1:40 a.m. 28 l.att· :'1/ight :'llt·wshrid 
Today in History 
In llJHO. Iran's l'rcsidt·nt Bani·Sadr at'l'usnl tht· militants at the U.S. Embassy in Tehran of bdng influenced by pro-Soviet groups. 
(>n this date: 
In I HI 0. Emperor :'llapokon Bonapartt' of France married ArchdudK·ss \lark Louise of Austria by proxy. 
In I'))H. <inman hm:t·s t·ntned Austria. In 1')·1 ), the British Eighth Army repulsnl ht·avy <inman counterattacks in Tunisia. 
In 197 (l. l 1.S. l'n·sident l{it'hard :'llixon ack· nowlnlgnl ht· ordernl the ( :lA to try to keep \1arx· ist Salvador AlknJe from bt·u1ming prt·sident of Chik in I 970. 
Tl'n yl'ar~ ago: American B-'i2 homhl'rs, support· ing a South \'it·tnamt'Sl' military l.lrive, destroyed a "\lorth Vit'tn;tmt·st· ha~t· in<:amhodia. 
Fi\'l' ~Tars ago: more than I00 peopk hdd hostagt· in downtown \"\'ashington hy armnl I lanai \tuslim~ werl· rekasnl. aftl'r three Islamic amhas· sadors joined in the nl'gotiations. 
<)nl' year ago: l'rl'sidcnt Reagan wrappl'd up an ofticial visit to Canada with an addrt·ss to the Canadian Parliamt·nt. -,tP 

~~'" l!J~~~~U~:.ri ~;~~ ~~'.:.! ~~ !-a 0_ml.lli]iy
Broadway's Smash Hit, Now on Stage 
Well almost as al:J:J."'i~LI:J..i :lJ.ll:J..i celebrates a wee bit
Notre Dame Student Union presents early withgreen beer and ~pecials on~ ~ . \ r ~ Old Bushmill'~ 't'~~,~~~-.
~ J~J{kr~ ~

s:;!:~~r I£A'L"-11 
Jamesons r, ~1;.· -,_. ·· · .._, ~\ · · 
' •• -~ I'·' . -· ~ • '~ 
I 

O'D b ' d ~~~ ·---1) -.t. -~ ~'"'-·t.
7 • .,;\

ar ys an .;·z~_.~~~"'" -· ... ~__,.,
.-Y~ ok'.~­
. ··y;·

Morris Civic Auditorium Wed., March 24 8 pm 
Waterford Cream! ~"" 1 ~ iJ ·> .· ~ .. ,~r
Lottery Sunday Feb.14 7 pm Nazz 
-.. ..;.::.--. ~ ':--."'1, 

Must bring cash or money along with student I.D. 
ST. PAT'S T-shirts will be given away as doorprizes--wear something green fora chancel. The fun begins at 10 :OOpm ':.l'.UJ."':J..a:.U':.l'~
Buses will be available from main circle 
t ... 
Thursday, March 11, 1982-page 12

S_~orts 
DiStanislao signs two more recruits 
.1\.lso a member of Bellvue's girls' 

By MARK HANNUKSELA 
tennis ream, Ebben sports a 3.7

Sports Writer 
grade point average on a 4.0 scale, and plans to major in pre-

Two more high school recruits professional studies. have announced their intentions to "Lynn is a very good shooter," enroll at Notre Dame and play bas-DiStanislao said. "She can penetrate, ketball for Mary DiStanislao's team but .because of her height, she can next fall. Lynn Ebben, a 5-9 point post up well. We'll use her in a guard from Bellvue, Wash., and similar capacity." Denise Basford, a 5-11 guard from Basford has led Our Lady of Mercy Farmington, Mich., bring to four the High School -the sister school of number of recruits who have com-Brother Rice, Tim Andree's school mitted themselves to Notre Dame. -to a 78-14 record during her four-
Cathy O'Brien ofSan Marcos, Ca., year career. and Trina Keys of Marion, Ind. an-Another four-time letter winner, nounced their intentions last month. Basford led Mercy in scoring ( 12.5 
The two most recent announce-ppg. ), steals (four per game) and as­ments come in the wake of sists ( 4.3 per game) while serving as Saturday's 68-59 loss to Michigan captain in her senior season. State, which ended DiStanislao's In addition to earning All-State second season as coach of the Fight-and All-Catholic League honors, Bas­
Grace Hall goalie Warren Garden made several key 6-5 overtime win in the interhall championship game 
ing Irish. ford was named a pre-season All-
saves, butPete Dalyfinally scored to give Ho~y Cross a Tuesday. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
"Lynn and Denise are going to be American by Street and Smith terrific assets to our club," said DiS-magazine. She recently served as 
Women's tennis tanislao, whose career record at captain of the All-State team. Notre Dame stands at 26-27 follow-She owns the school records for ing a 16-9 finish this season. "They single-game assists ( 11) and steals
Irish prepare to warm up in Florida
add a lot of quickness to our back-(nine) and for career assists and court, especially on the defensive steals.
ByJane Healey for a trip, Petro comments, "It's pret-Lrip:-stephan did reveal that, accord-end. Lynn has long arms and good A two-time letter-winner in track, 
Sports Writer ty obvious that it is easier to play ten-ing to sports physician Dr. Bodnar, it instincts, and Denise is quick and Basford owns a 3.2 grade index, andnis in warm weather. It is especially is doubtful ifshe will be able to par­moves well to the ball." will join Ebben in pre-professionalLike many of us venturing off to welcome after trying to practice ticipate in any ofthe matches even if Ebben currently averages 22 studies.
Florida or anywhere warm during inside the cold ACC." she did travel with the team. 
points and 13 rebounds per game for "I think Denise has a good futurespring break, the Notre Dame Notre Dame's first match is Mon-All in all though, Petro sums up Bellvue High School, which enters in college basketball," said DiStanis­women's tennis team will also be day March 1 5 against Cenetary Col-her emotion about the spring trip as Thursday's opening round of the lao. "She's quick and reacts well
following the sun. The girls begin lege. Cenetary is the only Division II "excited." She states, "We are Washington Class AAA Tournament defensively. She penetrates and
their spring season with a trip to school the Irish will face. All the playing teams with good reputa­with a 25-0 record. passes well." 
Louisiana starting tomorrow. other schools along the way tions. I'm really excited to see how An All-State selection as a junior, The four
After completing their fall season (Louisiana Tech, Northwestern we do and I think the girls are new recruits will give 
Ebben also averages three assists and Notre Dame a total of nine freshmenwith a 10-1 record, the Irish State, Tulane, LSU, and New Mexico excited, too." 
three steals per game. She has and sophomores next season. That
captured the state championship in State) are in the AlAW division I. For So ifyour spring break adventures earned four basketball letters. will be enough youth for DiStanis­
. their Division II AlAW tournament. the Irish that means competition lead you to Louisiana, look up the Ebben's father William was a bas-lao, who said she will not pursue any
• ' But the team had to rest during the will be tough. Notre Dame women's tennis team ketball All-American at the Univer-other players to add to next year'swinter months until it began practic­Petro is confident, though. "The and add some fan support to the 
sity of Detroit. stable. 
mg after Christmas. Now, in the team we have now is better than any travelling Irish. spring, the Irish will compete in the team in the past," she says. We need regional tournament over gradua­to compete agianst other good 
tion weekend. teams to improve. If we played last 
West RegionalPreview 
According to Coach Sharon Petro, year's schedule with this year's the spring trip can be viewed as fine team, I'd almost guarantee an un­tuning before the tournament. "It defeated season, but we must be 
Georgetown, Oregon St. favored 
would ridiculous to win the state challenged." tournament, not play for months, The only sour note in the tennis 
At last weekend's meeting of the minds in Kansas and then expect to play well in the story is the injury to senior co­
City, they described the 1982 NCAA tournament with 
regionals." Thus, the purpose of the captain Tina Stephan. Stephan 
two words -"Westward Drift." A glance at the 12 
spring season before the regional awoke last Thursday morning with 
teams in the West regional shows why.
tournament is practice and improve­severe tendinitis in her right wrist. 
Ofthe 48 teams in the tourney, only seven live in the 
ment. The wrist is presently in a splint and 
West, and only five will play there. In fact, the western 
As for the necessity ofgoing south it is uncertain if she will be on the quadrant of the country was so thin on quality teams this past season that the selection committee lowered itselfto giving the Pac-10's third place team-Southern already -has been said about the TroJans. 1hese two Cal ( 19-8) -an at-large bid in lieu of Missouri Valley teams will have trouble drawing fleas in Logan, Utah, 
• Volleyball Club qualifiesfor 
champion Bradley (who finished a game ahead ofTulsa but CBS's cameras will be there tonight ( 12:40 a.m. and Wichita State). tipoff). To help remedy the problem, the committee sent 2.) Oregon State-{23~4) -The Beavers surprised 
Georgetown, West Virginia, Pittsburgh, NE Louisiana many this season by becoming the dominant team on and North Carolina A&T across the continent. In the west coast. OSU took a No. 2 national ranking into general, this region is full ofunproven teams with great the tournament last year, lost at the buzzer to Kansas records. State in the second round, and then, like Notre Dame, 
Another problem: Who, in Pullman, Wash., is going to lost three starters to the NBA. But unlike the Irish, the buy a ticket to see Pepperdine and Pitt or NE Louisiana Beavers came right back and this time take a No. 4 and Iowa? Better still, who, in Logan, Utah, wants to see ranking into the tourney. Ralph Miller already has been West Virginia and NCA&T? honored as Coach ofthe Year by NBC and others. 
But look on the bright side. Unless Iowa pulls off OSU no doubt hopes for a crack at Idaho in the three straight upsets, someone is going to make it to the regional semifinals. The Vandals humiliated the Beavers Final Four that hasn't been there in ages. Here's a look at in December, 71-49. But first they must survive a 
Midwest Championships 
VOLLEYBALLERS QUALIFY FOR LEAGUE CHAMPIONSHIPS 
the four seeded teams and who they might play in second round game with the Pepperdine ( 21-6 )­By virtue of the Volleyball Club's second place finish at Miami 
Round Two. Pittsburgh ( 20-9) winner. Pepperdine walked away(Ohio) in a round-robin tournament last weekend, the Irish have 1.) Georgetown {26-6) -Milk-chugging John with the WCAC title, finishing 14-0 in the conference,qualified for the Midwest League Championships to be held at Thompson has used a 32-game regular season to groom including a pair ofconvincing wins over San Francisco. 
Bowling Green on April 1 7. Notre Dame clinched second place out his young sixth-ranked Hoyas for the biggest party of Although they finished a distant third in the Easternofsix teams that compete in the Northern Division of the league. 
the year. Most of their six losses were early-season Eight, the Panthers stole a tournament bid by winningThe team meet started off badly for Notre Dame when it opened learning experiences, and these kids from the nation's the conference tournament.
the tournament with consecutive losses to Miami (Ohio) and Ohio 
-

capital have been red hot of late. Among their 26 wins 3.) Idaho (26-2) Great record, nice ranking, but Wesleyan. The team managed to regroup afterwards and triumphed are seven victories over tournament teams St. John's, who'd they play? The eighth-ranked Vandals, who took in its next three matches against Eastern Kentucky, Blufton College, Boston College, Villanova and Missouri. Georgetown's a 25-3 slate into last year's tourney only to lose in Round and Michigan, therby earning a bye for the semi-finals. Notre Dame recent tournament experience includes a narrow One to Pitt, lost for the first time this season just two then reached peak-form when it crushed Michigan ( 11-4, 11-0) in defeat at the hands of Iowa in the East Regional final in days before visiting this campus in late-January. That the semis before bowing to the host team by 15-7, 15-8 scores. Cited '80, and a five-point loss to James Madison last year in two-point loss at Montana and the 50-48 setback herefor outstanding defensive performances were Scott Erbs, Mark the first round OMU then lost to Notre Dame). Patrick were their only two defeats. But Idaho played only oneStewart and Carlos Ausset, while top spikers were John Klebba, Ewing really is something to see, but he still has a few tournament team -Oregon State. Was that game aKevin Hinders and Eric Wolfe. 
things to learn. A matchup with Ralph Sampson in New fluke?Just say the Vandals have some convincing to do.
"We are probably playing as well right now as we did at this time 
Orleans could be a classic. To set the stage for a rematch with OSU, Idaho mustlast year (when the team tied for first in its division, and was 5th The feeder game for Georgetown is USC-Wyoming. · 't the Iowa-NE Louisiana ( 19-10) winner, a matchupoverall in the then 30-team league)" comments club president Barry This is one ofthe better first round matchups. Wyoming .u highlights some of the more debated tournamentSmith. "We have improved a lot since we started practicing in Oc­(22-6) won the WAC title (that's the Brigham Young .opics. No. 16 Iowa(20-7) is one offour Big 10 teams intober. Ifwe can keep up the hard work in the weeks to come, we will 
Utah, San Diego State, etc. conference), and was one <..
be in pretty good shape to have a chance in the league champion-
three schools in the league to win 20 games. Enough See WEST, page 8 See CORNER, page 10 







