, , .Showcase -page 6 

VOL. XVI, NO. 101 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1982
an independent srudem newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Nobelwinner Milosz opens literaryfestival 
By MARY AGNES CAREY 
Sairlt .War~··s Execulioe Editor 
Historkal consciousness in a con­stamly changing political climate is cetllral to the Polish poet's awarc­nt·ss, according to Nobel priZl'· winnt·r Czeslaw :\lilosz. 
"Wht.·n pm·try is connected with hiMorical pa:-.sion. everyone nt·eds pot.·try," the opening artist li1r the 
19H2 Sophomort· Literary Festival st:llnl yt·stl'fday afternoon during a workshop in the Library Lounge. lk abo t·xtcnsivdy discussed tht· politi­t·al slluation in Poland. his native country ;md rt·ad several of his pm·ms to a 'apal'ity crowd last night in .\lt·morial Library Auditorium. 
During a visit last summn to Poland alter a .~0-yt·ar absence, \-1 ilosz ml'l now impri~oned Solidarity k.idt·r l.ech Walcsa and tht· two "became great friends." Tht· pot·t's "t'cdings very strongly bind" him with Solidarity and he admires Walt-sa as a "wonderful and very wise man" whom ht· will tiJilow "eVl'rywhere." ''Primarily a poet," :\olilosz has abo written books and prose. I k was born in Lithuania in 
I') I I and moved with his family during the World War I and Russian Revolution contlicts. In 19S I, he hrokt.· with the Communist regime and exiled himself in Paris. He came to the United States in 1960, became a naturalized citizen and is a profes­sor emeritus to the University of California at Berkeley. 
Poland's situation is now "pretty bad," he stated. "Normalcy as a whole has been destroyed." The present ft:ding of Polish citizens is one of "rage and despair, hatred. Poland is pervaded by hatrt:d. Nobody believes anymore what the govt-rnmcnt says." 
Solidarity; according to Milosz, saved the Polish people from several decades of "a start· of humilation," establishing a solid movcmt:nt that was "gcner:tlly felt" in tht· country. "Expres~i(Jll of t'rt-c public opinion (tl>r) tlw t1rst time since 1':15')" was the movement's main accomplish­
ment. 
"Solidarity was to get :1 certain 
amount of l'Oillrol over the policies 
of the government ...as far as (the) 
t·xperts were concerned," he said. 
The movement has also been 
accused of being unwilling to com­
promist·, but, Milosz explained, 
Solidarity was moved to such an 
"extreme position" because it was 
unable to reach a compromise with 
the Polish government. 
Walesa's policy, according to Milosz, has been "to act in the open" in Poland, a country "so thirsty" for democracy. "The act of the military junta was foolish," Milosz stated, referring to General Wojcicch jaruzclski's ordered Dec. 13 takeover and establishment of mar­tial law in Poland. 
In poetry, one "can say one can 
See MILOSZ, page 5 

Czeslaw Milosz, Nobel Prize winner in literature, opened the 1982 Sophomore Literary 


Juniors host parents weekend 
By lAUREL-ANN DOOLEY 
News Staff 
Father Hcsburgh doesn't think he'll close Notre Dame, not after 
seeing  the  results  of  the  Junior  
Parents  Weekend  that  is.  "I  have  
known  some  very  prestigious  

ISOplays vitalrole 
Foreign students adjust to ND 
By DAVID SARPHIE 
News Assistant 
Editor's note: The following is the second ofa two­part sL>rles examining the integration process of minorities at Notre Dame. The first installment, which appeared last Monday dealt specifically with the problemsfaced by black students. 
More than 300 foreign students from sixty nations attend Notre Dame. These individuals come from dif­ferent cultures, speak different languages, and bring with them different ideas and values. It is this diversity 
~~at, Fr. ac~.~:~!n! M 0 N D A Y1:1iil~~iH. Tallcrida, places them among the University's most valuable assets. As Director of International Student Affairs, Tall arid a comes in contact with foreign students every day. Through this contact, he realizes the benefits these students could provide the Notre Dame community. "The views of these stu­dt·nts in such areas as the importance offamily, religion, politics, and materialism often vary widely from those of the American students," he said. "I think the interna­tional student serves as a valuable resource to this uni­versity by providing differing ideas to Americans who art· ignoralll about how people ft.·d." Tallarida scrvt.·s as an adviser for the International Student Organization (ISO), which attempts to utilize the~t· resources and allow a positive interaction bc­twt·t·n li>rt'ign and American students. lkfore any interaction is possible, however, foreign ~111dents must first adjust to the different lifestyle at :-.lotrt· Dame. The ISO provides an English class to hdp those studt·nts who have functional difficulty with the language. "This class is important, because the English language is ~·hard tool to master," Tallarida noted. "Trouble with the language can affect not only one's academics. hut one's ability to socialize, as well." 

The Host Family Program is another service for foreign students in association with the ISO. This program matches a student with a family in the South Bend community, allowing the student a better under­standing of the American way of life. This program provides a valuable service, as a student from Malaysia noted, "a host family can really help a student get ad­justed to the new lifestyle, and it gives him a family with whom he can keep in contact." 
After the foreign student has adapted to the many 
changes in his lifestyle, the ISO tries to make his efforts 
worthwhile. The organization schedules various social 
events throughout the year, hoping to bring the foreign 
students together with the Americans. 
Francois Boueri, co-president ofISO, reported a dras­tic improvement in the success of these parties this year. "Last year, we really didn't have much in the way ofsocializing, but I think things have improved this year as far as foreign students arc concerned," he said. "We still need more participation by American students before we will have a truly successful cultural inter­change." 
To open up the communication lines for this cultural interchange, the ISO has scheduled an international fes­tival for the: first week in April. Events will include a mock United Nations dc:bate, an international buffet, an arts and crafts display, and a talent show. "We're hoping the festival will give the American students a taste ofthe many different cultures represented on this campus," Boueri said. "We owe it to the Notre Dame community to try." 
An organization with purposes similar to those ofthe ISO is M.E.Ch.A.. This group focuses its attention on the culture of Latin America. According to MarthaJimenez, who has worked with the organization for two years, M.E.Ch.A. provides hispanics and those interested in the Latin American culture a chance to speak Spanish and share their common intc:rcsts. "We want to give the hispanic student a chance to get together with other students of a common background to help him fed more comfortable," she said. Among the events 
scheduled for the remainde-r of the year arc a Chican<) t1lm festival and a Mexican dinner. 
schools where the students arc so educated they're almost ashamed of their parents," Hesburgh told the junior parents and students Saturday night. "If that ever happens here we'll close the place." 
The junior class members played host to their visiting parents this weekend at the annual three day gathering designed to further unite students and their families. 
Calling the affair "one of the best weekends of the year," University President Father Theodore l-Ies­burgh addressed the re-united families following a dinner at the Athletic and Convocation Center. "For the first time, the men and women of Notre Dame get to host their parents on their own turf as adults," he said, "and I am happy that this weekend has been an occasion of so much love between parents and students." 
In Father Hesburgh's opinion, Notre Dame parents arc a crucial part of what he terms "the greatest student body on earth." Students arrive already formed, he said, as ex­tensions of their parents and it is these parents who deserve credit for the students he "wouldn't trade for any others." 
The wcc:kend also included workshops put on by each ofthe col­leges. Thc:sc were comprised of presentations by the deans and in­formal discussions with professors. 
Mass was held at Sacred Heart Church on Saturday evening and some problems with seating arose. According to one parent, the church was filled long bdore the beginning of the Mass and "many who had come a very long way to attend could not." A Glee Club perfor-
SeeJUNIORS, page 5 

Hesburgh, ND community gathertogetherforpeace 
Cindy Coldiron 
StaffReporter 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh and other concerned students, professors, and administrators, sharing the convic­tion that the chances of nuclear proliferation has caused an unjus­tifiable and terrifying increase in the probability of nuclear devastation, will show their peaceful solidarity at a "Bread Not Bombs" peace gather­ing on Ash Wcdnc:sday. The gather­ing will be at noon on the steps of the Dome. 
Sponsored by CILA, Campus Mini­sty, Pax Chisti, and the Center for Expcricntal Learning, the gathering will begin with the pealing of the Church bells. 
One of the student organizers, Liz Abeyta, remarked that the purpose of the gathering is to make everyone more aware ofthis issue. "There is a big tradc:-off going on," she said. "People in the third world arc starv­ing to death, yet we spc:nd billions on nuclear arms. We want to make people aware of the fact that every bomb we build is bread being taken away from these people." 
Also referring to this "trade-off," Craig Price, another student or­ganizer, stated that the purpose of the gathering was to "reassert the priority of life, cspt.·cially for thost who arc suffering from the economic trade-off between tht· weapons ra<.·e t and social programs. We are making a stand as a Catholic university community on the issue of peace, particularly in regard to the arms race." 
Together, as a community of hope, they will offer songs and prayers for global pt·acc. Pricl' t'n· courage everyone to attend, offer their support, and hdp make a positive stride for pt·acc in the world today. 
A follow-up meeting will he in tht: LaFortune Social Concerns Alcove at 4 p.m. where several of the speakers will discuss possible plans for the future. 
----~-~ 

Monday, February 22, 1982 -page 2



ews Brie/§ 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 

Party time at ND
The Soviet newspaper marks the 250th anniversary 
of George Washington's birth today, giving the first U.S. president 
good marks when compared with President Reagan. 
The paper yesterday described Washington as a slave owner and 
representative of rich landowners, but said he "managed to achieve 
for Americans that which many of his successors carelessly squan­
dered -a peaceful and dignified life." -AP 
San Antonio, Texas Mayor Henry G. Cisneros, 
the first Hispanic elected mayor of a major American city, was 
named yesterday as the 1982 RichardS. Childs Lecturerin Municipal 
Affairs, the City Club of New York announced. · 
Cisneros, 34, is scheduled to present hislecture Friday at the club, 
New York's oldest non-partisan civic organization. 
Cisneros, who earned his doctorate in public administration at 
George Washington University, served six years in the San Antonio 
City Council before beingelected mayor in April 1981. 
Cisneros is the fourth public servant to deliver the lecture, which 
memorializes Childs, a former City Club president who devised the 
city manager system which has been adopted by 1,800 U.S. cities. ­
AP 

Six former air traffi.Ccontrollers have been awarded 
nearly $25,000 in unemployment benefits because the federal 
government didn't show up to challenge their claims. 
The government, which says it doesn't have the manpower to at­
tend the job Service of Iowa hearings, is expected to appeal the 
decision. 

Richard Sturgeon, a spokesman for the International Association 
of Machinists who represented the former Sioux City airport con­
trollers, said the controllers won because they didn't admit miscon­
duct in going on strike last August. 
The government, which has maintained that the strike by the 
Professional Air Traffic Controllers Organization was illegal, would 
have to prove misconduct to support the dismissals of the strikers 
and the denial ofbenefits. -AP 
European Economic Community finance 
ministers agreed in Brussels, Belgium Saturday to devalue the Bel­
gian franc by 8.5 percent and the Danish krone by 3' percent, accord­
ing to the governor of the Dutch Central Bank. 
The Belgians had sought a 12 percent devaluation and the Danes a 
devaluation of 7 percent, but they were considered unreasonably 
high by all of the other delegations, according to a Common Market 
source who asked not to be identified. 
Both countries had applied for the devaluations to make their ex­
port products cheaper abroad and therefore more competitive. 
Belgium's unemployment rate of more than 13 percent is the hig­hest in the Common Market, and earlier yesterday the government froze wages and prices until May 31 in a move to revive the flagging economy. 
Premier Wilfried Martens said the devaluation ofthe Belgian franc is part of a move to breathe new life into the Belgian economy, which suffers from record public spending and borrowing. 
In Copenhagen, Danish Prime Minister Anker Joergensen said the 3 percent devaluation would bring some improvement in his country's ability to compete abroad, but he admitted he was disap­pointed the 7 percent devaluation had not been approved. -AP 
An Indianapolis youth's first driving experience came to a screeching halt yesterday after the tanker truck he had "borrowed" smashed into three parked cars, a chain-link fence and a stop sign, police say. 
"It's the first time I ever drove, period," said the 14 year-old boy, 
following his arrest for vehicle theft. "You have to learn sometime." 
The youth, who was not identified, said he was walking on a city 
street when the truck, owned by Allied Appliances Co., pulled up 
beside him. 

He said the man behind the wheel asked him if he would like to 
drive for a while. 

"I was driving for 15 or 20 minutes with this guy by my side," the 
boy said. "But when I started hitting the cars the man jumped out 
and said, 'Later on."' 

In pursuit of the weaving tanker was a truck and one of the 
damaged vehicles, driven by its_angry owner. 
The two motorists headed off the tanker and detained the -boy 
while police were summoned. 
The youth was released in his parents' custody. -AP 
Mosdy cloudyand cooltoday. High in the upper 30s to low 40s. Cloudy with a 30 percent chance ofrain or snow tonight. Low in the low to mid 30s. Cloudy and mild tomorrow with a chance ofrain. High in the low to mid 40s. 
-·-­

Due to the lack ofsocial activity at Notre Dame, a few guys-at one ofthe dorms decided to improve the atmos­phere and throw a party. Here is how the conversation went while they were planning the party: 
Bill: Hey, si.nce there's nothing going on in Indiana this weekend, why don't we get the party room and have some people over? 
Joe: Yeah, it'll be a change from our usual routine of sitting around andgetting pickled in the room, after sit­ting around and getting pickled at one of those great $1.00 movies in the Engineering auditorium. 
Bill: Sounds good, but first let's make sure our party follows the guidelines established by the hall judicial board andDuLac. 
Rocky: What rules? The only party rules 1know are to 
keep that fool down the hall away from the girls and any 
weapons. 

Bill: Get a due; here are but a few of the regulations 
our hall has: "The party room is only to be used by hall 
residents and their guests. A minimum of 50 percent of 
the quests must reside in the 
hall. Parties or happy hours 
can take place on Friday and 
Saturday nights or on the 
eve of a University holiday. 
The party room can be used 
any day for non-alcoholic so­
cial events." 
Rocky: We've got to have 
alcohol -if we don't my 
reputation will be ruined. 
Joe: That's not so bad; we 
can follow those rules. 
Bill: Are you kidding! 
That's only rule number 
one. Let me r•ead just a few of 
my favorites: "One cannot 
reserve the Party Room 
before one month or after 
one week before the date of 
the event." 

Rocky: Any party I'm at is an event. 
Bill: Yep-rule number three states, "To reserve the 
Party Room, one must include the date of the reserva­
tion, the type ofthe party ...." 

Rocky: I think we'll just have the usual type, a good 
old souse. 

Bill:" ....the names of the people organizing it, (the 
chairman), the names of the people working at the 
party, and the names ofthe people cleaning up after the 
party. 

Rocky: Most ofthe people I hang out withget cleaned up after the party. Bill: Anyway, "One can cancel one week prior to the event without penalty." Rocky: Penalty ... .I thought we're having a party, not a hockey game. 
Bill:"The penalty for later cancellation is the loss of the rental fee and one-halfofthe deposit." 
Joe: What deposit? 

Rocky: Deposit? Are we gonna have a keg? 
Bill: No, that is rule number eight of the "Further 
Ihe!lllserYer-~­
Design Editor............................. Mike Monk Design Assistants ....................... Tim Neely Typesetter.-.................................... Ray Inglin 
Mark Miotto News Assistant.............. Bob Vonderheide Copy Edltors.........................joe Musumeci Features Layout.......................... Tim Neely Sports Copy Edltor ............. Skip Desjardin Typlst....................................John McCarthy ND Day Editor................. Karen McMahon 
Greg Swiercz SMC Day Editor............ Mary Agnes Carey Ad Deslgn ................................. john & Mary 
Photographer .............. Gonzalo S. Reyes Guest Appearances .......... Number 38 and 
counting 
Jim Mole's alter ego It's Greek to me Carol 'Baby Cake' Bulthuis 




Party Rules" ....All other University rules concerning hall life ...." Rocky: I didn't know we had any hall life! Bill: " ....must be adhered to during the use of the party 
room." 
Joe: Ifthe University has anything to do with it, we'll 
never have any fun. Rocky: I had fun here once. Joe: You liar, you were at that cheerleader's house 
from Clay Middle School. Rocky: She looked at least fifteen to me .... Bill: Hey, did you know that "any resident assistant 
may enter a party for inspection"? Joe: How do you inspect a party? Rocky: On my hands and knees. 
joe: It's pretty close to the weekend. How are we going to get people over to the party? 
Rocky: We'll just put a classified in tomorrow's Ob­sever: Party -my place ­be there -Rocky. 
Bill: We can't. "No advertising is permitted for any party in the hall involv­ing alcohol." 
Joe: Since we're having such a tough time organiz­ing a party in the party room, why don't we just skip the party room idea, and have a few people in the room? 
Bill: But our in loco parentis has that covered with their "Parties in Private 
joe: Planning for this party is taking longer than being a hall rector. Rocky: Is there anything they don't have rules for? I bet they even have a rule about sex .... Joe: As a matter offact, inDu Lac they have a few of them -parietals, no co-ed dorms, ... Bill: Take a look at this rule. "Hosts will be respon­
sible for their guests." Rocky: But who's going to be responsible for us? joe: I don't see how they expect anyone to be respon­
sible for somebody else. --Rocky: Do we have to be responsible ifwe're the only 
ones there? Joe: Are there any rules about drinking by ourselves? Bill: Wait let me look it up in the book ....hey, 
there's no rules about drinking by ourselves. Joe: Sounds good to me .... Rocky: Alright!! Let's get sloshed and party by our­
selves!! Bill:Just like the past seven semesters. joe: It's nice to know that some Notre Dame tracli­
tions never change. 


Editorial Board 

==Ihe_Llbsei:Ver== 
Editor-in -Chief..............................j ohn McGrath Founded November 3, 1966 
ExecutiVP News Editor ...................... Kelli Flint Sports Editor.............................. Skip Desjardin 
The Observer is•an independent newspaper published by the students of tne News Editor ............................. David Rickabaugh Photo Editor................ .. ...............John Macor University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily SMC Executive Editor........... Mary Agnes Carq Editorials Edttor.......................Anthony Walton reflect the .policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­SMC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico reatures Editor .........................Gregory Swiercz ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views Department Managers of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola Production Manager ...................Michael Monk
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, ii encoun.ged. 
Controller ............................................ .)oe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan Advertising Manager .......................Chris Owen Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Observer Monday, February 22, 1982 -page 3 
Million barrels daily 
Saudisdenyoil production cuts 
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia (AP)-Oil Ministry officials Saturday denied reports the kingdom has slashed crude oil production a million bar­rels a day below the official OPEC level. 
The denial, the first official Saudi comment since the reports began last month, came as the world oil cartel president warned of market "chaos" ifmembers undermine each other in pricing and production. 
Sheik Abdul Aziz al-Turki, the un­dersecretary of the Oil Ministry, said "the kingdom's crude production is continuing within the framework of the announced ceiling of8.5 million barrels daily." 
In a statement carried by the Saudi Press Agency, he denied reports "that any decision has been taken to reduce production to (between) 7 million to 7.5 million barrels daily." 
Saudi Oil Minister Sheik Ahmed Zaki 
Yamani is in Europe, according to of­
ficials. 
Saudi Arbia, the world's largest ex­
porter of crude oil, accepted a 
ceiling of8. 5-million-barrels daily in 
November at the demand of other 
members of the 13-nation Organiza­
tion of Petroleum Exporting 
Countries. Its previous daily average 
was 9. 5 million barrels. 
The weekly Middle East 
Economic Survey reported yester­day that knowledgeable observers estimate Aramco, the main Saudi producing company, is currently producing between 7 and 7.5 mil­lion barrels per day. By the end of the week, the spot price for Arabian light crude had "fallen way below . the $30 per barrel mark (as compared with the official price of 
S34 per barrel) and was heading for 
1129," according to MEES. 
In a separate report yesterday the authoritative weekly oil journal also qoted OPEC president Mana Saeed Oteiba, oil minister of the United Arab States, as advocating "prorationing" production by OPEC members to .defend official price levels and restore stability to the glutted oil market. 
"We have agreed on a floor for our prices and if we breach this agree­ment, then there will be no market price and we will find ourselves at the end of the day in a state of chaos," he was quoted as saying. 
"We have to get this deteriorating market under control and if the OPEC members show the requisite spirit of cooperation, which I am sure they will, things will look better before the summer." 
'New federalism' 

Governors question Reaganproposals 

WASHINGTON (AP) -The na­tion's governors gave a mixed and often skeptical reaction yesterday to administration arguments that there will be "no winners, no losers" un­der President Reagan's "new federalism" proposal. 
"The truth of the matter is the 
states are already the losers," said 
Gov. Scott Matheson of Utah, refer­
ring to cuts in federal aid to the 
states in the administration's 
budgets for fiscal 1982 and 1983. 
Although budget director David 
A. Stockman contended that the budget is a separate and distinct issue that "really has no bearing" on "new federalism," many of the governors disagreed. 
"Art.• you saying to me ...that this 
deficit is not important?" New 
Hampshire Gov. Hugh Gallen, a 
Democrat, asked Stockman during a 
session of the National Governors' 
Association. 
"I have not suggested anything of 
the kind," Stockman responded. 
Stockman and Richard William­
son, assistant to the president for in­
tt·rgovernmentai relations, 
appeared at the opening day of the 
association's three-day winter 
meeting and also at a meeting of 
state lt-gisiators. 
While nearly all governors sup­
port the concept of giving states 
authority over programs now run by 
the federal government, they arc 
qut·stioning whether the financial 
resources also will be made 
available. 
"If we're going to be partners, we 
can't come into the partnership in an 
anemic position," said Matheson, a 
Democrat. 
Williamson responded, "The 
~;:~::~:..~~;;,~ 
1531 N. Michigan St.,l ·~~= South Bend 1· Phone-233-4957 
I 





I 1 *-I
L.._.................................IU..............L 
The Observer iUSPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fr~day and on horne football Saturdays excepl dunng exarn and vacation penods The Observer IS published by the srudenls of Noire Darne and Satnl Marys Col· lege Subscnpttons rnay be purchased for $25 per year ($ 15 per semester) by wnling The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Darne Indiana 46556 
The Observer ts a rnember of The Auociated Press All reproductiOn nghts are res81Ved 
Second class postage paid at Notre Darne Indiana 46556 
greatest losers are not any state, but all Americans," a reference to the current economic conditions. 
"With respect to the budget," he added, "we're open to discussion." 
Two Republican governors,James Thompson of Illinois and Christop­her Bond ofMissouri, urged their fel­low governors to accept "new federalsm" as the basis for achieving the kind of shift of responsibilities governors have long advocated. 
Reagan's proposed budget for fis­cal 1983 projects a S91. 5 billion deficit and reduces federal aid for the states by $10 billion. 
_Gov. Richard Riley of South 
Carolina, a Democrat, said that for 
the states to negotiate the details of "new federalism" on an equal basis "the federal deficit is going to have to be corrected." 
But he said that deficit "ought not 
to be corrected on the backs ofstate 
governments." 
Stockman replied that the ad­ministration was willing to consider any reasonable proposals for reduc­ing the deficit. However, President Reagan is standing fast on his proposed increases in defense spending and would resist any effort to cancel or delay the scheduled cuts in income tax rates. 
Asked about a proposal Saturday 
by Democratic governors and con­
gressional leaders that considera­
tion of"new federalism" be delayed 
until economic conditions improve, 
Stockman said, "The current 
economic problems and the fiscal 
year 1983 budget problems that we 
face are simply not sufficient reason . for delay." 
Space shuttle Columbia prepares for thirdflight 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) ­Technicians at Kennedy Space Cen­ter begin preparations today for loading fud into the Columbia's ex­ternal tanks, the next major test before the space shuttle blasts offon its third mission. 
"Ali in all, it's going to be a pretty quiet week," space center spokes­man Dick Young said yesterday. 
It is the first time the tank will be tilled at the launch site, Young said. For the Columbia's two previous flights, the tanks were filled at aNa­tional Space Technology Laboratories testing facility ncar New Orleans and transported to Cape Canaveral by barge, he said. 
The shuttle and astronauts jack Lousma and Gordon Fullerton suc­cessfully completed a mock tlight Friday, despite a 16-minutc delay caused by a computer malfunction. Officials said the malfunction would have scrubbt.•d an actual flight. 
Despite; official speculation that 
the March 22 launch may be moved 
up two or three days bccaus~ work 
is ahead of schedule, Young said no 
plans have been made to do that. 
runs thru 
February 27 
E;DISON & IRONWOOD 
Mir desip for the IWirt IDIR Inti W...n
r------cOUPON'------, Shampoo & Hair cut 
: 2 fOf 1Special C~~~N : 
., Bring a friend 2for $10 1
L-------COUPON------J 

@REDI<EN 
C~ll for an appointment with Robb, Joanne or Paul 
HOURS~ MON.-1:30-5:00 Thurs.-8:30-1:30 
Fri.l:l0-5:30 Slt.-1:00-4:00 
Phone 234-6767 
julian Rowe, junior class president, addressed his fellow clas­smates and their parents at the ACC Saturday night during the juniorParents' Weekend President's Dinner. (photo by Gonzalo S. Reyes) 
th€ 1982 SophomoReliteRaRY l=est1val 
presents 


The Sophomore Literary Festival Presents: 
Poets-.Robert Haas and RobertPinsky 
Today 
1:30pm Workshop with both poets in the library lounge. 
7:30 pro Readings in the Library Auditorium 
.....

..............D.E'livE·R·iN·G··i~-N...o·r·RE.DAM.E and SAINT MARY'S Goetfather's Pizza® 

I 
I 
~ 

lorder the EXPRESS DELIVERY: Medium pepperoni, sausage, or combo and receive quicker service. 
••••••••n••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••u..aaaai....MIIaaaaua 
Driver has fresh pizza for sale on truck. 

.,..J:t.Q.Ui.S.i Mon.-Thurs. and Sun. 5 PM. 10:30 PM i Fri. and Sat. 5 PM· 12:30 AM 
!IIIIIIIUIUauuUI......UIIIIIIQUUUUI.....II.............''''"'Itl"'lt'I........IUII...-..ullllllllllllllllllaea 
r 
Monday, February 22, 1982 -page 4

f The Observer 
I 
f Consumergroups angry 


I JE4ERC 'speedsup'gas decontrol 
.· 

WASHINGTON (AP) -As mil­ministration's way of decontrolling feels should be considered to lions ofAmericans struggled to cope gas without going to Congress." address some ofthe problems under with record high heating bills during FERC officials say the commission the current law." one of the coldest winters of the is a~ting completely within its Natural gas supplies 55 percent of century, an obscure federal agency authority to adjust the prices of American homes with their heat and was moving to speed up the natural gas. Butler has warned of those homes are being hit by a com­decontrol ofnatural gas prices, con­severe inequities in price and supply bination of unusually severe sumer groups charge. between regions of the country be­weather and prices which have risen 
The Federal Energy Regulatory · cause of faults in the current 75 percent in three years since Commission, a five-member inde­decontrol program. phased decontrol began. pendent panel, is responsible for "This is not backdoor decontrol," In the Washington area, where enforcing the 1978 Natural Gas said commission spokeswoman Rae­most congressmen have homes, the Policy Act, which calls for the helle Paterson. "There is no way we average customer will pay $1 72 for phased-in removal of price controls have the authority for that. These are natural gas JISed in January, a 45 per­on about 60 percent of U.S. gas just modest steps Chairman Butler cent increase over a year ago. supplies. 
But what has consumer group1 upset are actions the commission has taken or is considering that will 

Polish government states 
make prict:s rise much faster. Critics say FERC, led by Chairman Charles B111tler, is embarking on a 

ru1es for union renewal 
plan of "backdoor decontrol" to ac­
WARSAW, Poland (AP) -The many union activists were interned,
complish administratively what 
military government outlined among them Solidarity chief Lech
T President Reagan has been unable to 
Walesa.

guidelines yesterday for reactivating 
get throug~ Congress. 
PAP said the rules would be of­trade unions, declaring they must

Reagan appointed three of the 
fered for discussion in plants and in­abandon any political "ambitions"

agency's five members. 
stitutions and officials would listenand use strikes only as the "ultimate

Consumer groups complain that 
measure" in labor disputes. "carefully" to "honest workingFERC: men," but not to "determinedThe statement coincided with an
-During one df the winter's worst 
enemies ofsocialism."

announcement in Moscow that
cold waves, announced it was dou-·
BULAWAYO, Zimbabwe (AP) -missed. Polish martial law chief Gen. Woj­The guidelines restrict the right to
bling the prke for offshore gas found
Joshua Nkomo, ousted from the About 8,000 Mugabe supportt:rs strike, won by workers during
ciech Jaruzelski will visit the Soviet
in 300-foot water.

government coalition for allegedly in the town of Gatooma Saturday Union in early March. August 1980 protests that led to -Gave notice that it was
plotting a coup, pledged Saturday to blocked the main road to Bulawayo, No date or agenda was set for the formation ofSolidarity in the Gdansk
considering raising the price of gas
work for peace in the young, about 225 miles southwest of Salis­shipyards. The government said
trip, reported by the official Soviet
found at 10,000 feet to 15,000 feet.
tribally-divided nation. bury, local press reports said. news agency Tass, butJaruzelski was walkouts will be permitted only as
The consumer group Energy Action 
"I am back to where I was 22 Bulawayo is the administrative capi­almost certain to meet with Soviet the "ultimate measure."
Project charged that alone could
months ago," he told reporters in a tal of Matabeland Province where Presiident Leonid Brezhnev. 
cost customers n 8 billion. 

reference to independence from Nkomo draws the bulk of his sup­The trade union guidelines came
-Said that next month it will
Britain in April 1980. port from his minority Matabele as the policy-setting Communist
consider raising prices of "old gas" 
Episcopalean

"I am now not struggling to build tribe. 
Party Central Committee prepared
-found before April 1977 -from
Zimbabwe but to make sure that it The protesters carried placards to meet for the first time since mar­
as little as 60 cents per thousand
'does not disintegrate." calling for a one-party state, the tial law was declared last Dec. 13.
cubic feet to $4.

Nkomo, leader of the minority detention of Nkomo and the ban­At the same time, Roman Catholic 

cathedral

While estimates of how much gas
Zimbabwe African Peoples Union, ning ofhis party. 
bishops from across Poland were ex­
would be covered vary from 25 per­
was fired from the Cabinet Wednes­pected to meet in Warsaw to forge
cent to 50 percent, critics are uni­
day by Prime Minister Robert Nkomo has denied charges of a church policy toward martial law Mugabe who charged he planned to coup plot, claiming that Mugabe form in their complaint that FERC is 

goes modern

authority following Primate Jozef
going beyond its authority. 

use weapons discovered on ZAPU­framed him to destroy the coalition Glemp's return from the Vatican,
"The commission is being used to
owned property to overthrow the and pave the way for his avowed aim NEW YORK (AP) -Imagine: the
where he recently met with Pope
usurp the power of Congress," said
government. Three other ZAPU of establishing his Zimbabwe world's largest cathedral, a vision of
John Paul II. 
cabinet ministers allegedly involved African National Union (Patriotic Edwin Rothschild, director of Gothic grandeur, with a vaulted
In Rome, an Italian newspaper
Energy Action. "This is the ad-
in the coup attempt also were dis-ceiling 12 stories high and a set of 

The Saint Augustine Combo entertained the audience as part of the Black Cultural Arts Festival's talent show Saturday night. (photo by Gonzalo S..Reyes) 
Zimbabweanpolitician pledges to workforpeace 
Front) as the nation's only party. 

interested in the COLLEGE OF ARTS .AND LETTERS 
The Dean's Meeting with Freshman who plan to ~enter the ColfegeofArts and Letters will be held onMonday, February 22, 1982at 7:30P.M.in theEngineering Building Auditorium .. 
Following are the topics which will be covered: 
I. Dean Burns-TheCollege of Arts and Letters and a liberal education. Thesecond major in Computer Applications (CAPP), TheProgram forAdmibistrators (ALPP) and TheJuniorYear Program in London. 
II. Dean Waddick-Degree requirements in the College of Arts and ~ Letters and career goals of liberal arts students. ~ III. Dean Weigert-TheArts and Letters Preprofessional Pt:ogram i and Arts and Letters combination five-year program witht Engineering. · 
c IV. Dean Sniegowski-TheCore Course inthe Colle,ge of Arts 
I and Letters. 
I 
V. Professor Nicgorski-TheProgram of Liberal Studies (PLS). 
June Giroux, Chairman of the College of Arts and Letters 
Student Advisory Council (ALSAC) wilfbe present with other ALSAC members so thatstudents may talk with theni following the meeting. A question/ answer period will follow the presentations. 

which had been granted an ex­towers rising 300 feet above the
clusive interview with the Polish­western portral, with chapels and al­
born pope on yesterday quotedJohn tars, tapestries and stained glass.
Paul as saying that as a Pole, he And a solar greenhouse and a laser 
"cannot miss" visiting his homeland beam tower.
in August for the 600th anniversary being trendy," cau­ofthe Black Madonna shrine. A papal "We're not tions James Morton Parks, dean ofaide said the Vatican had received the Cathedral ofSt. John the Divine.
no word from the military on "We've been working on this for awhether an invitation issued before long time, and now we're ready tomartial law was still in effect. 
come out ofthe closet."

The government's union What has emerged is a plan toguidelines were published by the transform the unfinished EpiscopalPolish news agency PAP: They are cathedral from a relic of the old ar­the first official indication of what chitectural style to a harbinger ofshape military rulers want trade uni­the new by encasing its south arm,ons to take. 
or transept, in glass, creating a solarAll unions were suspended in the greenhouse that would help heat thecrackdown, including the independ­rest ofthe building.

ent labor federation Solidarity, and 
******************* 





EARN 
BUCKS 
Ihe_---Obset:ver___ --­
needs Design Assistants. .,.__One night each weel~? -Excellentwar king conditions ....._Fringe benefits t---Good times .,__-Learn the newspaper business 
CallMIKE 239-7471 
The Observer Monday, February 22, 1982-page 5 
CIA report charges 

Soviets used chetnical w-arfare 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A secret sources, who declined to be iden­The sources said a "sanitized" ver­intelligence report prepared for the tified. sion of the intelligence report will Whitt· House provides "very Secretary of State Akxander Haig be made public within the next grott·squc" evidence that the Soviet charged last week that the United several weeks to provide further Union used chemical warfare co kill States has "incontrovertible support for the charges made by thousands of people in Southeast evidence" that the Soviets arc using Haig and other U.S. officials. Asia and Afghanistan. sources say. chemical weapons in Afghanistan, One official familiar with the 
Laos and Cambodia. report said, "a lot of this t·vidcnce is 

The classified National Intd­very grotesque stuff." But he li~encc Estimate by tht· CIA contains In a television interview Feb. 14, declined to go into detail. additional "hard evidence" ofSoviet he said the poisons have killed Casualty estimates arc diftkult to usc of potent chemical weapons "scores of thousands of non­come by, but they range from S,OOO including ··yellow rain," say the combatants in all three target areas." to 30,000 people, the sources said. 
Unhappywith liberalism 

Popeto meet with Jesuit leaders 

ROME (AP)-Angered by signs of rebellion in hisJcsuillcgion, Pope John Paul II has summoned I00 ll'aders of the largt·st and most in­llucntial religious onkr in Chrbten­dom to an unprt'(.'t."dentcd conclave. 
Vatican and .It'suit sources say the conscrvativt· pontiff has been un­happy about many individualJesuits' involvemt·nt in leftist politics and 
thdr  open  support  for  liberal  
churdl (.'aUses.  
"Some have hn·n  a  little undis­ 

criminating in elaborating new theories," said a Jesuit sourt·e, who asked not to ht· idt·JHifit-d. 

A number of Jesuits in Latin America have t·ndorsed the "Tht·ology of Liberation," which combines Marxism with Roman Catholic tradition. 
Jesuits also have participated in tht· left-win~ Sandinista guerrilla movt·mcnt in Nicaragua, and have het·n accust·d of hdping rebels in (luatcmala and El Salvador. 
In the llnilcd States and Western Europe, Jt·suits publicly have chat-
continuedfrom page I 
say thing~ it would take many pages 
of prose to say," an clement that 
made "pot.·try the language of the 
Resistanct·" to the Nazi forces. A 
poet, Milosz hdicves, must he 
"committed to social and various 
causes" or his poetry will not he aut­
ht·ntic. "A writer should have a zone 
of freedom, of timtasy, of playful­
ness." he said. 
After brief introductions by SLF 

Chairman Sally Carlin and University 
of Notrt.· Damt· Prcsidt·nt Theodore 
llcshurgh, .\1ilosz began an hour of 
readings (all originally written in 
Polish and translated to English) 
from st·veral of his volurues. 
Poems such as "Calling to Order" (the author's warning to himself), "The Risin~ of the Sun" reflect .\1ilosz's apprenticeship in Paris from 19:~4-19 y;_ After reading "Tht· Task," Milosz began a series of poems cont.-crning the World War II lengcd celibacy and the church han on artificial birth control. 
Soon after the start of his pontif­icate in 197H, the pope sent a dircctivt· urging members of the 447-year-old Society of Jesus, the formal name of the order, to stick to an austere religious life, follow church doctrine and shun "secularizing tendencies." 
In October, he went further, naming a personal representative, the Rev. Paolo Dezza, to run the or­der -supplanting the Jesuits' ailing superior-general, the Very Rev. Pedro Arrupc ofSpain. 
The move was without precedent, andJesuits in West Germany, France and Canada complained publicly about the break in tradition. 
Now. tht.· pope has called leaders to a closed laying-down-of-the-law, the first sut·h meeting in the order's history. 
"The first purpose is to inform the provincials (Jesuit local ad­ministrators), and through them the entire society, about the pope's 
German occupation in Poland but did not want "to overburden the audience with such unpleasant 
things." · 
"A Poor Christian Looks at the Ghetto," deals with a Warsaw resi­dent's view of the city while it was embroiled in flames, a subject that "was difficult" for Milosz to write about. He read "A Song For the End of the World" in both Polish and English. 
He's explained his "philosophy of life" in as little as six lines of poetry as well as composing poems like "Magpicty" and "Boho's Metamor­phosis" that illustrate a mixture of 

. fantasy and realism. 
Milosz also read poems relating to his experiences at Berkley and the Gospel. Fellow poet and translator of Milosz's works, Robert Haas (who will appear at SLF today at I:30 in the Library Lounge and 7:30 in the Library Auditorium) read two of the Nobel prize-winners selections. 
I I I 


Juniors 

continuedfrom page I 
mance and a brunch were also 
featured during the weekend. 
"We were incredibly thrilled with the way everything went," said chairman of the organizing commit· tee Greg Kane. "All the parents I talked to said they had a fabulous weekend. To hear that is great be­cause that's why we were doing this in the first place." 
Junior Lisa Schmargen felt the weekend was {'the highlight of my three years here. I've never seen so much love at one place at one time." 
Larry Smith, another junior, said, "It was great to ht.• able to take my parents out and show them around, to let them see what Notre Dame is all about, and for the t1rst time in a long time I had a chance to be alone with my family." 
A committee of sophomores also 

played a large role in the manage­
ment of the affair, according to Greg 
Kane. "They took care of making 
sure all the events ran smoothly and 
we really have to thank them a lot." 
"I enjo} ,.d helping the juniors and 

am looking forward to having my 
parents here next year," sophomore 
Pat Barry stateel. 
Paul Aportela (on ground) andjoe Dolan warm up in prepara­tion j(Jr rehearsals j(Jr the upcoming production, The Wild Duck. (photo by Gonzalo S. Reyes) 



Annil3:WiNTER-SALE!l 
(with ND/SMC i.d. only) NOW UN't'IL MARCH 8! l 
e TOP TEN SALE--S5.99 L.P. or CASETTE 
JGeils The Rolling Stones Stt:~vie Nicks 
The Go-Go's Sammy Hagar The Police Foreigner Genesis Molly Hatchet 
Bob & Doug McKenzie (beauty.~h?) 
e DISC WASHER KIT S9.99 (regular S15.99) 
• ALL POSTERS 1/2 PRICE ! • BLANK TAPES Sl.OOOFF! e Sl.OOOFF ANY OTHER L.P.orTAPE! 
RIVER CITY RECORDS 
50970U.S.31 North Open 10-10, 7daysaweek · ND!SMC checks always 
3 m ties North of cam pus cashed up to $20 over 277-4242 amount ofpurchase 
·--------------------------------------------------~ 

with special guests STENCIL FOREST &.ZIBBYTEBO 
ThisTuesdayFeb.23 • 7:30pm Morris Civic Auditorium e South Bend 
Tickets: S 10.00 reserved. Good seats still available at 
RIVER CITY RECORDS, 50970U.S. 31 North and at 
Morris Civic Box office beginning at 6:00pm night of show 
~-~--~------------~-­----­
t 
~~S H0 W C'~iiiiiiiSiiiiiiEiiiiii.iiiii~iiiiiMiioniiidaiiy,Fiiiebiiruiiaryii22ii,liiii982iiiiipiiageiii6 

Bayley plays Chautauqua 
F
or three hours on Friday, Feb. 19, a standing room only crowd of Notre Dame students were treated the rhythms ofjohn Bayley. Chautauqua Club filled to capacity as the wizard of reggae was welcomed back to the campus he pleased at last semester'sJAM. 
Tim Farrell and John Dardis 
Bayley, a native ofGuyana, South America, climbed the stage with a laugh that set the air for the rest of the night. He began with "Pickin' and a Grinnin"' and the audience responded with a roar that would be its trademark for the hours to come. 
Throughout the first set, Bayley related personal experiences ofen­counters with armwrestling men of South Bend restaurants and how glad he was that the crowd was crazy. The crowd invariably reacted with the spirits to carry "the reggae­musicman" throughout the night. 
With the Bob Marley time of"I Shot the Sherriff',"Jamming," and "Rastaman Vibration," Bayley dis­played his talent as a reggae musician. He also performed a couple ofsongs from Cat Stevens and Crosby, Stills, Nash, and Young. His cowboy boots and yelps reminis­cent of the American West provided a Country and Western touch. Bayley explained afterwards that this was the type of music he was exposed to as a youth in native Guyana. 
As part ofan extensive U.S. tour, John Bayley was in Chicago for two days. When asked if he would like to return to Notre Dame again, Bayley responded that he would have a ha~d time refusin~ such hospitality. 


When asked to describe the crazy 
evening ofsongs about Babylon,Jah, and the holy herb, Bayley wrapped it up in two simple words, "Positively 

Mushabac, Cherrypositive." It was a spiritual event for him to sing about "jah mountains, Jah trees,Jah fish injah seas." He left 
perfortn at Series 
smerd Ted Ozark Cellist Regina Mushabac and pianist 

George Cherry will be performing a recital Tuesday, Feb. 23 at 8: IS p.m. in the Snite Museum's Annenberg Auditorium as the Notre Dame's University Artist Series continues. 
Ms. Mushabac studied cello tor six years at the]uilliard School of ,\1usic in New York before studying at In­diana University with janos Starker. Currently a professor ofCello at Baldwin-Wallace Conservatory of 
Music in Berea, Ohio, she has taught at the University of Kentucky anCI was a guest artist and visiting profes­sor at the University ofSao Paulo. Brazil. 
After a recent Carnegie Hall solo 
concert, she was characterized by Joseph Horowitz ofthe New York Times as "a vital confident player with a sure command ofthe instru­
ment." 
Cherry received his under­

graduate degree at Northwestern University before earning a masters degree in music at the Uniersity ofIl­linois. He also holds the degree of Doctor of Musical Arts from the Cleveland Institute of .\1usic. 
Currently a professor ofpiano at Baldwin-Wallace, Cherry has per­formed extensively with orchestra, in solo recital, and in chamber music throughout the Midwest. 
Admission to the concert is S2, s1 for senior citizens. Tickets will be available at the door. 

Longevity gets more interesting with age 
I 
fyou are a writer, you have a lot offriends who are writers. One of mine has the formidable name, Osborn Segerbergjr., but he's "Ozzie" in Kinderhook, N.Y., where he lives. Ozzie has never written a hit play or a best-selling novel, but he's a good professional writer. The world needs fewer stars and more competent professionals in. every field. · 
Living To Be 100 is the name ofthe book Ozzie's just written, and he did his research from reports he got from I,200 people who are at least 100 years old. 
The book ought to do pretty well, but I don't think this one will be a best-sellereither, because I question how much interest there is in living to be I00 except amongpeople who arc already 99. Until you get close, living to be 100 doesn't seem like that attractive a goal. I, for example, want to live for a long time, but I don't want to get old. 
Right now, I'm cool to the idea ofbeing IOO. When the great financier and philosopher Bernard 


Baruch turned 80, someone 
asked him ifhe felt old. He 
said he didn't. 

"To me,"Baruch said, "old age is always l 5 years older than I am." I agree with that. All my life I've been moving up the age at which I think "old" begins. 
For his book, I'm sure Ozzie Segerberg has made sure all his sub­jects were actually IOO, but I can never get the Russian joke I know out ofmy mind. Years ago I was working on a morning TV show and someone did the perennial story about the area in Russia where people are reputed to live to be older than people anywhere else in the world. 
The filmed report showed several Russians who said they were at least II 5 years old. When it was over, another writer on the show who had been to Russia said, "Those people aren't 115 years old. Living in Russia, it just seems that long." 
The book Living to Be 100 isn't a flimsy go-to book with a lot of fake answers. It's a serious report, and like most honest reports, it doesn't pretend to have one simple answer to the most important question ofall: how to stay alive. It simply tries to find out how these 1,200 centenarians did it. 
for example, Ozzie asked his subjects iftheir eating habits had 
contributed to their long life. Many of them said that "eating right" 
had helped, but then Ozzie got asking what they thought "eating 
right" meant and there was a big difference ofopinion. 
One man said he thought it meant eating no starch and a lot of 
meat, fruit and eggs. Several said it meant eating slowly, but Mrs. 
Adelheid Schuhnecht, ofBeaver Dam,Wis., said" we ate good, a bag 
ofpotatoes a week." 

I have a private feeling that I'd have been dead ofoverweight 20 
years ago ifI'd eaten a bag ofpotatoes a week. 
One ofthe things the book does conclude is that having a sense of 
humor is a big help in gettingto live a long time. People live longer if 
they have some good way ofgetting through the hard times without 
too much stress, and a sense of humor is one way ofreducing stress. 
That's good to know ifyou have a sense ofhumor, but ifyou don't there's nothing you can do about it. You can change your eating habits, get more exercise or stop smoking, but no one everacquired a sense ofhumor through determination. · 
Some ofthese IOO-year-olds said they had been helped by good doctors, but Walter Pannell, I00 years old and a doctor himself, was asked how often he had a physical checkup. 
' "I haven't had the occasion to consult doctors," Dr. Pannell said."! don't feel the need. When you feel alright, d01)'t hunt for trouble. 
The trouble is, we all hunt for the answer, as ifthere was just one, and it's obvious, there isn't. 


96 y~m wi6k to. 8ltftWt 
OBSeRUeR 


PHOTOGRAPH 
tkat kaoo ap~OOJWL iK tke ~apeJt 
Send $4.00 and the date and photographer's name to: 
John Macor 
Photo Editor 
Box Q 
Notre Dame Indiana 
46556 

Include a return address. · 
The second set proved to be-even more energetic than the first. Taking the audience higher than before, the sounds ofBayley's guitar got people on their feet to dance. They danced through Bob Marley's "Woman 
Don't Cry," and "Roots Rock Reggae." The high-spirited crowd even tried to dance on Bayley's small stage. Although the dance space was too small, Bayley joined the crowd and leaped around while accepting tokens ofgenerosity from the excited audience. 
After leaving the stage, he was forced back by the rowdily cheering of the crowd for a memorable encore. The audience did not want to accept the end and yelled for an­other encore, only to be disap­pointed by the brilliance ofthe house lights. 

the stage with a more intense and less ·nervous smile than he entered with. His last words to the audience were "Jah bless you!" 
"Positively Positive" is the name of Bayley's first album. The record has already been cut and is due in record shops by early April. He is based in Colorado and already en­joys a large following in the South­west. He will continue his U.S. tour by heading South to Kansas, Missis­sippi, and Florida. From there he will trek across the country and end the tour in Los Angeles, California. He hopes to visit Notre Dame again in the future, now that he realizes his popularity on campus. His qualities as a comedian, singer and all-arolllnd great entertainer insure him ofcon­
tinued success with very receptive and ecstatic audiences, no matter where the location. 
~t-llllfiii/JI

~···········~~ 
·.~ 
~· ......
s:lom 
......~· 
~· 

.... 
~·

...... ..... 
....... ......
-··...... QUill ..... 
~· 

~· . •S ·­
~;~·········:t~
.<f"Jlllllllll•~ 



~~()1"ts=/=)=r==i=e~~S========~====================M=o=nct=a=y,=Fe=b=ru=a=ry=2=2=,1=9=82===p=ag=e=7 
ByTbe Obsen•er and Tbe Associated Press 
...Grassey 
Michigan basketballtickets arc still available at the second flour ticket office at the ACC. The game will be held in the Silverdumc in Pontiac, Mich., on Sunday, March 7. Tickets arc priced at S4 and S6. -Tbe Observer 
Ski trips to Swis~ Valley every Saturday night during the win­ter months. arc being sponsored by the Student Union. Busses depart from the Main Circle at S p.m. and return at II p.m. Bus tickets can be purchased in advance from the Student Union for $2.SO, or on the bus itself for S3.00. Also, discounted lift tickets and ski rental arc available -The Observer 
Freshmen arc needed to participate in the student managers organization. If you arc interested, call the managers' oftkc this week between 2-6 p.m. The number is 239-6482. -The Obsen,er 
School records fell ti.Jr the Notre Dame wrcstcrs on Saturday as they swept Taylor and Siena Heights in a triangular meet at the ACC Pit. The Irish ousted Siena Heights, 31-16,and clinched the Taylor matd1 with a pin in the: day's last match, 24-12. lll·avyweight Larry Kissner, who had to avoid being pinned to win tht.· match, responded to the pressure by pinning Taylor's Dwayne Spn·r. Tht· Irish set school records fur wins and winning percentage in closing the season with a I S-2-1 mark. -The OIJseruer 
WSND staffersand staff members ofThe Obsen,er will play a hockey game Wt·dnesday night at midnight at the ACC. The game is part of a ~:ontinuing ~:hallengc series in a numbt.-r of sports, ca~:h of whkh Tbe Obsen•er has dominated. A good time will be had by all. and all arc welcome to enjoy the spe~:tade of totally inexpcricn~:cd skaters trying to brt.·ak each other's faces. -The Observer 
continuedfrom page 8 

types of defenses that our oppon­nents play. It's a lot of work, but it's also very satisfying." 
Phelps has not been disappointed with Grasser's contribution. "Gary gives I00 percent all of the time," Phelps says. "He's not as talented as many of our people, but he's a very hard worker." 
Grassey has some comments about his ability as a basketball player. "I have no prctentions about being a starter or logging a lot of playing time," he says. "But my game has improved tremendously since I joined the team. I try to hold my own, and I don't back down. I know a lot more about the game now than I used to know." 
Grasscy has been close to Notre Dame athletics since he arrived four years ago. He worked as a student manager during his first semester, being fortunate enough to land a job with the soccer team. He began working at The Obsen1er during his second semester. At the beginning of his junior year, he began working at Notre Dame's Sports Information Department. During his career as a writer and a manager, Grasscy met several Notre Dame ~:oaches (including Phelps)_ 
''I'm a very fortunate person," Grasscy claims. "I've been able to view the ssssss;;," he con­tinues. "They can't ever really un­derstand the ~:hemistry ofa team. So much of this game is mental. A lot of thinking is involved." 
Now that Grasscy has seen both sides of the fence, he is able to more fully understand the conflicts that sometimes arise between reporters and sports personalities. 
"A sportswriter can be educated to a game over a number of years," he surmises. "By asking good ques­tions, he can gain a knowledge of what goes on bchind-thc-s~:enes. But a writer has to be very careful about criticism. The entettainment factor often enters into columns. Ashoddy job always shows up." 
Phelps realizes that Grasscy is also a reporter, and that he could take ad­vantage ofprivileged information he receives as a player. But this is not a problem. "Gary is totally loyal to myself and the team," Phelps ex­plains. "There arc certain things that happen inside the team that he could exploit, but he doesn't. He realizes that we're trying to work as a unit. Certain things that happen should not be public knowledge." 
Phelps claims that Grasscy's situa­tion is enviable. "He's got a few dif­ferent perspectives on the situation," he says. "Gary now knows what it's like to be a reporter, a spectator, and a student-athlete." 
Now that Grassey is familiar with all aspects of basketball and sportswriting, does he plan on pursuing a career in either? 
"I definitely do not want to be a sportswriter," he answers. "I would get tired of that too qukkly. I like being involved more than on the surface. I might, however, eventual­ly consider coaching baskc:tball." 
Grassey is currently interviewing with several companks in order to make usc of the Economics dc:grec that he will receive upon gradua­tion. "I want to work in New York for at least a couple of years," he says. "I'm a city person. I thrive on constant a~:tion. After I earn some money, I'd like to go to graduate school. But nothing is certain." 
It is obvious to anyone who talk!t to Grasscy that he is thoroughly enjoying his experience with the Notre Dame basketball team. "What a great way to spend my senior year," he exclaims. "I've learned a lot about basketball -a sport I've al­ways loved -and I've had a great time. I'm grateful for what Digger has given me." 
An~. no doubt, Phelps and the 

Irish basketball team arc grateful for 
what Grasscy has given them. 
Saturday's Results Notre dame 59, South Carolina 55 Notre dame (59) 

M FG-A  FT-A  R  F  p  
Varner  28  1-6  0-0  0  1  2  
Spencer  39  4-5  5-8  5  4  13  
Andree  37  3-4  5-6  4  2  11  
Mttchell  40  4-5  0-0  2  4  i!  
Paxson  40  7-11  6-6  2  2  20  
Rowan  6  0-0  0-0  0  1  0  
Rucker  10  1-1  3-4  1  5  
200 2o-32 19-24  14  15  59  
FG  Pet  625 FT  Pel  -.792  Team  

rebounds -0. Turnovers -7 Asststs -7 -Mttchell. 4 Techntcals-none South Carolina (55) 
M FG-A FT-A R F p Holmes 16 0-1 0-0 3 3 0 Jergenson 35 7-11 5-6 4 2 19 Foster 38 3-7 4-6 9 5 10 Peacock 34 4-5 0-0 0 1 8 Marttn 29 5-11 0-0 2 0 10 Kendall 3 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Sanderson 9 0-2 0-0 D D 0 Darmody 20 2-3 2-2 2 6 Hawthorne 8 0-0 2-2 2 2 
The Observer wrll accept classtfteds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. classrf1eds to appear tn the next tssue must be recerved by 3 p.m. the bustness day prtor to tnsertton All classrheds must be prepatd, etther tn person or through the marl.



Classifieds 
NOTICES 
OVERSEAS JOBS--Summetoyear round. Europe, S Amer . Australia. As1a. All ltelds $500·$ 1 200 monthly. Stghtsee­tng Free tnlo Wnte IJC. BBox 52-IN4, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. 
Looktng for a truly portable, yet powerful. personal computer? See THE Os­BORNE 1, 64K, dual 1OOK dtsk drives, complete software package. $1795 FOURWAY COMPUTER PRODUCTS (Across from North Vtllage Mall). 277­7720 
CAMP COUNSELORS--Instructors wanted tor prest1ge prtvate Mtchtgan boys and g1rla summer camps. Marc Seeger 1765 Maple. Northltetd. tL 60093. 
ATIENTlON: URGENTLY need to loc81e wHneaa to an automobile acci­dent on October 10 at 7:30pm (day of the Ftorlde St81e Game). The accident occurred on Cleveland Rolld, We81 of Juniper, near Oakmont Park aubdlvl­alon. Pleaae contact Volunteer S.rvlcea, X7308 II you have any ln­lorm.tlon. 
TYPING. EX-LEGAL SECRETARY. 272­5337 
MORRISON SCHWARTZER AND THE TOXIC WASTES are comtng to NOTRE DAME .MARCH 3 AT THE ACC Mornson IS the proponent ot the thnv1ng new genre of mustc MICROWAVE ROCK! Ttckets are not avalhble at the boxotf1ce 
ILOST/FOUND \ 
t LOST Green platd scarf Last seen han· g1ng on the w1re fence 1n front of Bad1n Hall around 5 30p m II you happened to p!Ck 1t up please call Karen Kosteck y 6t62 
FOUND Pa11 ol Contact tens near ma~n c~rcle Call Ted at 1t87 
LOST A BLUE AUSTRIAN LODEN COAT AT BRIDGET SON THURSDAY NIGHT REWARDIIII CALL MARY AT 284·4762 
Lost Whoever borrowed the scale from the F1eld House please return 11 as 111s cru­Cial to work ongo1ng there No Questions 
LOST A 14K GOLD CROSS FROM A NECKLACE. IN GYM t OF ACC IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 283·t772 THIS IS OF GREAT VALUE TO ME 
LOST A SIZe 42xl London Fog overcoat at Ersktn C C last Saturday n•ght I have your 44•eg coat Call Emmett at234-6298 LOST--SHARP CALCULATOR PLEASE CONTACT BILL AT 8629--REWARD 

Happy Btrthday, Laura dB 
LOST: Gold and Stiver Setko watch tn ROTC butlding on Feb. 16 II you have it please return it; tt was a graduatton present Call Mtke 234-6298 
LOST:SINGLE GOLD CHAIN. Extreme value to mel II lound please call Mark-­3895. REWARD 
lost-a dtgttal watch wtth a cracked crystal and wtthout a band call 6261 reward. thanks. 
FOR RENT 
Avatlable lor next school year and summer--two ltve bedroom houses. 234­2626 
4 bdrm house lor rent. North shore.$275 mo. UIIIIIIBS lnCI Available Summer antloor lall 1982. Parkovash. Call Patty 3193228735 call refunded 
Free rent;house lor tacully lor sum­mer;call Patty 3193228735 call refunded. 
Ava•lable march 15th tor rent,4bedroom,2bathroom,malntance tree house $300 per month.plus $300 depostt.Call233-2547 tor appOintment 
Three bedroom house. turntshed. on Rtverstde Dnve. 2 baths Call 272-8360. Ideal for two sentors or two graduate stu­dents 
WANTED 

Need nde to Houston Texas. for spnng break It you are headed tn that d~rectton please call Ttmo at 1782 
TYPING 28 years as a secretary Excel­lent typtst..rellred $ t 00 per page Call Phyllis 259·2501 
RIDE NEEDED TO HOUSTON TEX-FOR SPRING BREAK.. ·WILL SHARE USUAL CALL CHRIS AT 1678 ANYTIME 
Need nde to Washington. DC tor spnng bk call Faarz at 8695 
PHILADELPHIA. ALLENTOWN. TREN­TON! Rtde needed tor spr brk Call M1ke at 1386 last' 
KAPLAN MCAT and other MCAAT books tor sale Call4530 (SMC) 
Must deliver benanea to my Uncle Bonzo In Waahlngton D.C. I need a nde there anyttme. any weekend I wtll share dnvtng and drtnkmg expenses. Ican even offer amustng conversatton, unless you like stlence, tn whtch case I'll shut up and count ptgs through Ohto. It you re dtv~ng lo 
D.C. give me (Ryan) a call at 272-8158 day or ntght. 
HEif>i Need nde to and from Massachu­sens tor spring break. Call4530 (SMC). 
GOING WEST? RIDERS NEEDED TO KANSAS CITY. WICHITA. OR SALINA FOR SPRING BREAK CALL LISA AT 8021. 
Need ndeto Mtchigan State. East Lanstng area. Can leave anyttme Fnday 26th. or aher 4:00 Thurs. Call Shart 2858 
nde desperately needed tor two to LONG ISLANI'toN.Y.C. for break! Will share usual. Phtl at 8278 
HelpIll Desperately need ride to North­ern Jersey or NYC area lor March Break. Can leave anytime, will share uaual. Cell Tara, SMC, 4986. 
NEED RIDE TO MASACHUSSSETTS SPRING BREAK CALL DAVE 1655 
WANTED: Rtde to 0 Hare on Fnday. March 12. II you're leavtng between 2 and 3p.m.. call Greg at 233-4381 
Desperately need a nde tor two people to Northern Jersey. nght off Route 80 Wtll share the usual Call Mtke at It81. 
FOR SALE 
Trntable DUAL 1241 S-only 3 yrs old.one owner. call Jtm at 277-2349 
TICKETS 
1 Need up to 5 DePaul G.A tJckets Call John at 1391 
Need MANY DePaul G.A. s. Ill do almost anythtng to get them Call Dan at 8608 anyttme 
need 3 DePaul ttx badly Wtll pay megabucks call Peg at 3723 
NEED DEPAUL TICKETS WJII pay$$$ ffor up to 6 GAs. Call JOHN 3430 
Alum from Chtcago needs 2 O'ePaul GA llx Wtll pay top dollar Call Charlie at 8214 Got ROYALLY PIMPED at the Lo«ery Need 4 (FOUR) ttckets to the MORRISON SCHWARTZER and the TOXIC WASTES Concert on March 3. Wtll pay mega-mondo-btg bucks. Call D Treemont 9567 
Wtll trade smallthero-nuclear devtce for 4 ttckets to the March 3 Mornson Schwartzer Concert at the ACC. Call Chuck Mason 915-5555 
Need t stu. or GA ttc to DePaul game Please call Kevtn,l751 
HELPI I am tn desperate need ot 3-5 DePaul G.A. ·s. Call41-4057 
Need 2 DePaul GA·scall Dave at 1657 
WANT STUDENT OR GAs FOR DEPAUL GAME. BIG$ CALL AFTER 11 p.m. 289-3145 
Brother w1ll dtsown me tf I don t get 2 or 4 student or GA DePaul tix.. please call 8024-thankslll 
-, PERSONALS I 
Looktng lor a truly portable. yet powerful personal computer? See The Osborne 1. 64K. dual I OOK dtsk dnves. plus $1 400 worth ot software. all tor $1795 FOUR­WAY COMPUTER PRODUCTS (Across lrom North Vtllage Mall). 277-7720 
Mary D. Mary D. Mary D. The Mary DtSiantslao Show. tontght at 
6:05 on WSND-Am 64 

The Society lor Creative Anachronism ts holdtng an organtzattonal meeting on Thursday (Feb.25) In LaFortune s Lt«le Theatre at 7 p.m All are welcome• 
Want to go to the Mornson Schwartzer Concert W1ll do anythtng to go tnclud•ng sleep wtth you' Call Mttlle Burke-Sweater 9344 
LOS ANGELES lor Spnng Break 
We re gotng by land 1 e roadtnp, so the two cars and the good ltmes wtll roll con· ttnuously unt1l the Pactftc Ocean peeks over the honzon If you are at all tn· terested tn a tun and tow budget approach to the West. gtve Ray a call at 3596 
NEED RIDE EAST ON AI 80 TO B:.JCK~ NELe, WILLIAMSPORl'•o PENN STATE LEAVING 2-26. RETURNING 2-28or 3-t CALL MIKE AT 1787 
K ot C MEETING TONIGHT AT 7 · ALL MEMBERS PLEASE ATTEND Marned? Engaged? Searchmg for a safe. healthy, effecttve and morally acceptable means of planmng pregnanc1es? Call Campus M1n1stry 239-6536 to regtster tor Natural Famtly Planntng class starttng Thursday. February 25. on campus 
The Ice Capades are leav~ng the ACC. but the Escapades are rust begtnn~ng Wed· nesday at mtdntght, the Observers face oN aga1nst Team WSND 1n a hockey game that should provtde as many laughs as groans from both ot WSND's listeners. 
MANDATORY BOSTON BUS Meet~ng THURS llo25. 7 p.m. tn LaFortune Lrnle Theatre Bus Leaves the 12th. Ad Tnp, Retresh-$1 10 Money due at meettng. MUST ATTEND! 
ATTENTION ALL MEMBERS OF GAMEAS ANONYMOUS! OUR TELEPHONE NUMBER HAS CHANGED 
IT IS NOW 283· 1484 
Att. anyone Interested 1n Amateur Radto K9VRU N.D amateur radto counctl wtll hold tts t~rst 1982 meeltng on Thursday Feb 25 Please come to the ballroom 2nd floor Lafortune at 7:00pm. All welcome The posstbtllttes are endless I 
BAND NIGHT AT SENIOR BAR ALL BANDMEMBERS AND FRIENDS WELCOME MONDAY NIGHT 
KEN AND JOY-THIS IS YOUR OWN 
PERSONAL WHICH MEANS THAT 
EVERYONE ON CAMPUS WILL KNOW 
THAT NOT ONLY DO YOU EXIST, BUT 
THAT YOU ARE SO VITAL AND IM­
PORTANT THAT YOU GOT YOUR 
VERY OWN PERSONAL...ATTHIS MO­
MENT, THOUSANDS OF STUDENTS 
LIKE YOURSELF ARE READING 
ABOUT THE EXPLOITS OF KEN AND 
JOY-THE TYPICAL SECOND SEMEs­
TER SENIORS FOR WHOM EVERY 
SINGLE NIGHT OF THE WEEK IS A 
WEEKEND. SO, WHILE MUNCHING ON 
YOUR HUDDLEBURGERS, JUST 
REMEMBER THIS-YOU ARE ON THE 
MINDS OF THOUSANDS OF DOMERS 
WHO ARE PROBABLY SPILLING 
FRENCH DRESSING ALL OVER YOUR 
PERSONALS RIGHT THIS SECOND 
(UNLESS, OF COURSE, THEY HAVE 
CREAMY ITALIAN OR SOMETHING, IN 
WHICH CASE THEY ARE SPILLING 
THAT!) NOW THAT YOU'VE READ THE 
MOST OBNOXIOUS PERSONAL IN 
TODAY'S OBSERVER, GO dUT AND 
BUY SOME TEQUILA AND ICE-YOU 
OWE ME SOME HACIENDA MAR­
GUERITAS FOR THIS ONEI LOVE, THE 
CORRUPTIBLE SOPH... 
TUTOR NEEDED FOR ADULT WOMAN IN ENGLISH t09 CLASS NEEDS HELP WITH ENGLISH GRAMMAR HER FIRST LANGUAGE IS SPANISH CAN MEET WITH TUTOR ON CAMPUS IN TERESTED VOLUNTEERS CALL MS FERRAUDI272-9706 AFTER 3.00 
ARTIFICIAL BIRTH CONTROL· Is there another way? Yes. Natural Fam1ly Plan· ntng IS SAFE, HEALTHL Y AND EF­FECTIVE. Everyone tnvtted to learn more Monday. February 22. 7 pm. Hayes­Healey Audltonum. 
Wowill A Wtndsurfer 
Dear Chns-Just wanted to say HIGH. Luv. Ttmo 
The Low Ltle, a cultural novelty to whtch Patnck Henry belonged 
HEY BAGS 
HEY BAGS GET OFF, EH? YOU HOSERS (HOSEES) IF YOU PLAYED BASKETBALL LIKE YOU DID THE FEUD, WE'D BE OK. 
LOVE, CRAZY HORSE 
MA'iii<"'CL:l:i;;jAN:vou:ii·E"·G-iiEA'ri_........ 
MARK U. I wtsh I could be as good as you I 
KA Ste~rer, 
They have told me your taken. but so am I 
w1th youuuu. 
Longtng tor you CD 
A TTENTIONI JEANNE MARIE LIBERA IS CHANGING HER NAME TO SUSAN GRAHAM BURKHART AS OF llo2h82 DONT MISS OUT--YOU TOO CAN SHARE IN THE CELEBRATION BY CALLING 41-4883 AND WISHING SUSIE A HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 
See DANIEL P KEATING tn THE AGE OF ROBIN HOOD SPECIAL SNEAK PREVIEW Ollo2Y•o82 For ttcketscall 818t 
MIKE WELCH-here IS your personal 
guess you sttll have 11 
When you see through love s Jlluston 
there lies the danger Then your perfect 
lover tust looks like a perfect loot So 
you go runntng off tn search ot a perfect 
stranger V'oh1le the lonhness seems to 
spnng from your life. like a founlatn from a 
pool 
Ola. So 11 whal a swedtsh massage IS!! love a1 1Sses. Jeffery P S thallzod shrr1 dmh~ · 119 w1idl 
twenty·l>hi .Jn the twenty-second! How 
can you lose? Happy Btrthday Karen 
You re my best g11l Bnan 
Pete Rub my back! (Just a ll«le personal tor your rr year) Tme 
Mr OB. 
I LOVE YOU and I DON T CARE WHO 
KNOWS IT LOVE. 
Sunsh1ne 

The Observer-Sports Monday, February 22, 1982 -page 8 

The Notre Dame hockey team will try to gain a measure of revenge against the Michigan State Spartans tonight at the ACC in a 
Achieve 
your goals with us 
Prudential is the largest multi-lines insurance com­pany in America; and one of the largest financial institutions in the world. But that doesn't mean that we're only looking for business majors. There are plenty of opportunities for those in the sciences and liberal arts. 
You see, ourdiversity and size enables us to offer careers in so many different fields that there's always something that will interest you. With us you can grow while doing what you want to do. And if you should later decide that you'd like to explore another career path, you can make your career change within our company and get paid for the additional education or train­ing needed to make that transition. There's no loss of accumulated benefits, no worries between jobs, nothing to hold you back from making or changing your personal career goals. 
So, if you're looking for a career, but are uncertain as to which career path to take, why not check out Prudential and achieve your goals with us. 
We'll be on campus Tuesday, March 9th 
See the placement office to sign up for an interview, or send your resume to: 
(jj; PmdentJal 
..._... 

5800 Canoga Avenue, Woodland Hills, CA 91367 An Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Employer 
~encing action 
I 



ND nten, SMC w-omen post wins 
The Notre Dame men's fencing team ran its undefeated string to 23 matches over the weeend, hiking its season record to 18-0, with a 22-5 win over Michigan State. 
Five different people were un­defeated for the Irish, including two in both the foil and epee competi­tion. 
Coach Mike DeCicco's squad went through tht:· entire meet with­out one fencer posting a losing record, and overvvhelmed the Spar· tans with its depth. 
The men's "B" team was nearly a successful as well, coming up with a win of its own. The Irish topped Michigan State 16-11 on the strength ofperfect performances on the parts of seven seperate com­petitors. 
Meanwhile, Saint Mary's women 

took matches from Notre Dame fen­
cers in both the varsity and "B" team 
competition. 
The varsity team won 7-2 on a couple of 3-0 performances, and the "B" team got by the Irish 6-3. 
This Friday, Notre Dame fencers take on arch-rivals Wayne State in a 6 
p.m. match at the ACC. The Irish 
defeated Wayne State 14-3 in a match earlier this season. The results ofthe weekend action: MEN'S VARSITY Notre Dame 22, MSU s-
FOIL COMPETITION Thompson -3-0 Dejong-3-0 Colley-Capo -2-1 
SABRE COMPETITION D'Ailura-3-0 Janis-2-1 Teitz-2-1 Riegel-2-1 
EPEE COMPETITION Daly-2-0 Tindell -2-0 Quaroni -2-1 Harstrom -1-1 
MEN'S "B" TEAM Notre Dame 16, MSU II 
FOIL COMPETITION Grady-2-0 Wheaton -1-0 Muckenhirn-1-1 Funai-1-2 Sc.allon -0-1 
SABRE COMPETITION Mlachek -1-0 Carney-1-1 McCarty -1·1 
Molinelli-1-2 
Dunn-0-1 
EPEE COMPETITION Joe-2-0 Gostigian -2-0 Hickey-1-0 Gardiner -1-0 Rutherford -1-1 Konzelman -0-1 
WOMEN'S VARSITY 
Saint Mary's -7 Kitchen -3-0 Hendrick -3-0 Mendez-1-2 
Notre Dame -2 Valdiserri-1-2 DiNicola-1-2 Schiltz -0-2 Burns-0-1 
WOMEN'S "B" TEAM 
SAINT MARY'S -6 Hendrick -3-0 Me t ndez -2-1 Kerger-1-2 
NOTRE DAME -3 Sweetser -l-0 Marshall -1-I Gerard-1-1 Morrison-0-2 Weissler -0-2 

'TheBird' 

Red Soxinvite Fidrych to camp 
BOSTON (AP)-The Bird, Mark Fidrych, whose arm ailments have sent him to the minors for threes seasons, will join the Boston Red Sox this week in spring training at Win­ter Haven, Fla., the team announced over the weekend. 
The former Detroit Tigers pitcher, who won American League Rookie of the Year honors at age 21 in 1976, will sign with the Red Sox' lllltetrnational League team at Paw­tucket, R.I. by Thursday. He will join 
pitchers  and  catchers  in  Florida,  
according  to  team  spokesman  
George Sullivan.  

Details of the contract were not disclosed. 
"He'll be given every opportunity to become one of the 2 5 players on our Red Sox roster," Haywood Sul­livan, executive vice-president and 

Mark "The Bird" Fidrych 
general manager, said in a statement from Florida. ''I'm elated to have mark in the Red Sox family. We're very hopeful his rehabilitation will continue in leading him back to the majors." 
Sullivan said the decision to sign the 6-3, 27-year old from Northboro, Mass., followed phone discussions he had Saturday with Fidrych, Fidrych's agent, Bob Woolf, and Red Sox manager Ralph Houk, who coached Fidrych in Detroit before retiring briefly in 1978. 
"There has been particular im­provement in the last months and his progress has impressed a number of our people," Haywood Sullivan said, adding that coach Walt Hriniak, catcher Rich Gedman, and second baseman Jerry Remy had seen Fidrych work out. 


ltom writertoplayer 
G_ary Gra.·sey changesroles 
By DAVE .DZIEDZIC 
Associate·sports Editor 
Editors note: This is a reprint ofa story which hadappearedprevious­~y in The Observer. 
A year ago, Gary Grassey was a full-time reporter for The Observer. When he wasn't covering a basket· ball or soccer game, he was probably writing a feature story about a Notre Dame basketball player. 
My, how have times changed. 
These days, instead of writing stories about the Notre Dame bas­ketball team, Grassey is a member of the team. 

Grassey, a 6-8 senior from Hacket­tstown, N.J., vividly recalls the day that Coach Digger Phelps talked to him about playing for the Irish. "It was the day after the Bookstore Bas­ketball Finals last year," he remem­bers. "I saw Di£;ger in the Sports Infomation Office (where Grassey works as a student assistant).. He said, 'I'd like to talk to you about playing for us.' I thought he was joking. But I went into his office later and he explained what he wanted of me. I was shocked." 
'Shocked' seems like a mild term for someone who was about to have his dream realized. 
"I have dreamed for a long time about being a Notre Dame basket­ball player," Grassey says. "I tried out for the team each of my three years, but I had resigned myself to the fact that I wasn't going to play. It took a while for the realization to sink in." 
Grassey was a good basketball player at Huntington High School in New York, but not good enough to play for a Division I school. He was recruited bv 40 colleges coming out · 
........................................................................................................................
_ 

Co~U11o ~ ~ CCJJaUt CDe~tgn 
18461 St. Rd. 23 South Bend, call for appointment 2 77-18 75 
-shampoo. conditioner, cut style Guys--$7.0·0 (reg. 13.0~0) Girls-~110.00 (reg. 18.00) 
For Co-Designers Only. 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
of high school, but never received a scholarship offer. 
"I was recruited on the basis of potential, not past performance," Grassey says. "I don't even remem· ber my high school statistics. There isn't much to remember." 
Grassey considered attending other colleges, including a few Ivy League schools. "I might have been able to play four years at places such as Brown," he says, "but I decided to enroll at Notre Dame because I wanted a good education and a good atmosphere. I never had any idea that I'd end up on this team. In fact, I thought my basketball career was over." 
Just how did Grassey end up on the squad? 
"I think it was a matter ofbeing in the right place at the right time," he explains. "Digger needed a big man for practice. I knew him from my contacts with him as a sportswriter. He respected me and knew that I'd give everything I have to the team." 
The role of a walk-on is not easy. He must work hard . at every practice, but doesn't participate in many games. Grassey knew this when he accepted Phelps' offer. 
"There's not a whole lot of glory involved," he says. "I basically have to help the team in preparation for the opposing front lines, playing the 
See GRASSEY, page 7 


The Observer -Sports Monday, February 22, 1982 -page 9 


Two qualify for NCAA's 

Track team breaks t-wo records 
ByEARLRIX 
Sports Writer 
The Irish track team set two 

school records and qualified one 
athlete for the NCAA Champion­
ships en route to a seventh-place 
team finish at the Central Collgiate 
Championships ( CCC's) in Madison, 
Wisconsin this weekend. 
Senior tri-captain Paul Doyle vaulted 16-8 3/4 inches to break his own school record and qualify for the NCAA championships. Doyle's vault was the highest in the history ofthe CCC's but he was tied and had more misses than an opponent, so he placed second and his vault may not be recognized as a meet record. 
Junior Steve Dziabis qualified for the NCAA's by winning the 600 in a time of 1:10.43. He qualified in the same event as a freshman. 
Sophomore Andy Dillon broke the school record in the three-mile event with speedy 13:5 I clocking. 
Greg Bell qualified for the finals in 

the 60-yard dash with a 6.44 second 
clocking in the preliminaries. He ran 
Finish9-3 



Swimmers split meet with lllinois 
The Notre Dame men's swimming team wrapped up the dual meet seg­ment of its schedule over the weekend at the Rockne Memorial Pool. 
The Irish split a pair of meets with Bradley, and wound up the season with a 9-3 record. It marked the second season in a row that the Irish swimmers posted nine wins, the second highest win !Otal in the team's history. 
Friday night, the Irish chalked up win number nine, the seventh 

Gretzky tops NHL scoringmark 
DETROIT (AP) -Edmonton's Wayne Gretzky tied Phil Esposito's National Hockey League goal­scoring record last night when he drilled in his 76th goal of the season at 16:34 of the third period as the Oilers posted a 7-3 victory over the Red Wings. 
The 21-year-old center took a pass from Glenn Anderson and beat Detroit netminder Bob Sauve with a I 5-foot shot along the ice that went into the net just insiee the right post. 
The goal closed out the scoring. Gretzky also picked up four assists, giving him 171 points for the season, a dissappointing race in the finals, however, and finished sixth. Anoth­er sprinter, freshman Phil Gilmore had a 6.53 clocking in the preliminaries and thereby qualified himself for the ICAAAA champion­ships. Gilmore had never competed in track prior to this year. In high school he bowled and played baseball, according to sprint coach Ed Kelly who adds, "He's a very, very 
good prospect and a raw talent." 
Greg Bell long-jumped 24-3 3/4 inches, missing the school record by less than and inch. That was good for fourth place. Kelly feels that Bell has an outside chance to qualify for the NCAA's in the long jump ifhe hits a really good jump in the next two weeks. Doyle long jumped 23-0, but did not use up all of his jumps so he could conserve his energy for his record-setting pole vault attempt. Freshman James Patterson jumped 22-7 in his first taste of collegiate competition. 
The distance medley team ofJim Tyler, Jacques Eady, Tim Macauley, and Jim Moyar missed qualifying for 
straight VIctory for the team. The 66­47 win gave the team achance to set a new team standard by repeating the performance Saturday against the same Bradley team. 
In Saturday's action, however, the Irish dropped a 63-50 decision, closing out the regular season. Notre Dame could manage wins in only the 400-yard relay, closing out the meet, and Paul McGowan's double victory in both the one-meter and three­meter diving events. 
Two weeks from now, Notre 
seven more than the mark he set last year. 
It was Gretzky's second record performance in as many games. The 21-year old center scored three goals and two assists Friday night, breaking his own year-old record of 164 points in a season. 
Earlier this season, Gretzky eclipsed one of hockey's most coveted feats, 50 goals in 50 games, by scoring 50 goals in 39 games. 
The Oilers have 1 7 games left, giving Gretzky a chance to crack two previously unthinkkable NHL marks -200 points an 100 goals in a single season. 
Dame will be in action again, as they travel to Illinois State for the Mid­west Invitationals. 
Following that meet, the ultimate goal for the college swimmers is the NCAA Championships. The Irish are looking to qualify several swimmers, in a number of events, for those championships later this spring. 
Coach Dennis Stark expressed pleasure at his team's performance thus far, and hope that his swimmers would perform well enough to go on to the NCAA's later in the season. 
the NCAA's by only a second as they clocked a very commendable 
9:50.1. Moyar ran the mile leg ofthe relay in a sizzling 4:05.5. 
The Irish two-mile relay team of Tyler, Macauley, Rick Rogers, and Ron Hyde ran a very consistent 7:46 to take fifth place. Their split times varied less than a second. 
The Notre Dame mile relay team finished sixth. The runners and their respective quarter times were: Mitch VanEyken 49.7, Jacques Eady 49.4, Steve Dziabis 49.4, and Jan Kania 49.8. Dziabis and Kania ran the 600 only 40 minutes prior to the relay. Dziabis, of course, won and Kania ran a fine 1: 12.2 although he did not make the finals. Kelly said he respected guys like Jan Kania and Ron Hyde who have been, "quitely doing the job right. They're out there every day, steadily improv­ing." 
Jim Moyar ran the 1000 in 2:10.9 which was good for fifth place. Mitch VanEyken quallified for the ICAAAA's whan he ran an electroni­cally timed 49.2 quarter mile. 
The most goals in a season, includ­ing playoffs, is 85 last season by Mike Bossy of the New York Islanders. Gretzky, himself, holds the NHL records for most points, including playoffs, with 185, and most assists, induing playoffs, at 123. He set both marks last season. 
Acrowd of 20,270, third largest in Detroit's hockey history, gave Gretzky a standing ovation. In the audience was Esposito, who scored 76 goals with the Boston Bruins in 1970-71. Esposito, now retired, is a TV commentator for the New York Rangers. 
The Notre Dame men's swim swimmers hope to qualify for the team closed out its dual meet NCAA Championships this spring. schedule with a split at the Rockne · (Photo by Gonzalo Reyes) Pool over the weekend. Several 
THENROTC2YEARSCHOLARSHW PROGRAM· 
TUITION PLUS S2000 EXPENSE MONEY 
AND ANAVY OFFICER COMMISSION . 
The two-year NROTC 2 vear Scholarship 
Program offers tuition plus two years of expense money that's worth up to S2000, and the challenge of becoming a Navy Officer with early responsibilities and decision -making authority. 
During your last two years in college the Navy pays for tuition, uniforms, all textbooks and an allowance of S 100 a month for up to 20months. 
Upon graduation and completion of requirements, you become a Navy Officer, with important decision-making responsibi­lities. · 
Call your Navy representative for more 
information on this challenging program. 
NROTC UNIT, UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 239-6442 
NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST 
r--iiiiNGiN"T-Hiscou.,ON"ANDiAVi:---~ 



50%0FF FRAMES 
~~)@
For a limited time only, bring In this coupon and save SO% on all high fashion, high oualltv frames, Including those by Oleg casslnl, Christian Dlor, Pierre cardin, Gloria vanderbilt, etc. This coupon must be presented at time glasses are ordered and no other discounts applicable. Offer good on a complete pair of prescription glasses only. 
IServiceOJ!licall 
The Eyewear Expertsconcord Mall 875-7472 scottsdale Mal!, south Be'1d 291-2222 

• offices throughout Indiana ~ 
I
IYaDAMINATIOIIIAVAILA8UIIYOPTOIIIITIIIST I VISA' . WITH QP!I!CB ON PftMISIS . . 
~-----------------· 

The Observer -Sports Monday, February 22, 1982 -page 10 

NDwomenloseto SC -story,page 12. 
• • .Hockey 
continuedfrompage 12 
despite being draped by two Spartan defenders. In all, the Irish were whisltled for 11 penalties to the Spartan's six, and 

.'»-it was this stat more than any other 
that came back to haunt the Irish. 
As an explanation-more than an excuse, Smith put the loss in very simple terms. 
"We took some penalties, and we got burned." 
With the Spartans on hand for tonight's 7:30 face-off, it could be the Irish and an enthusiastic crowd that applies the heat instead, and to do so would put Notre Dame back on the very positive track they have enjoyed for the last two months. 
Besides the 3,500 tickets dis­tributed to the area Marathon dealers, the ACC ticket window will put 500 general admission tickets on sale at the hockey ticket window before the game. 
continuedfrom page 12 

walked over and offered her own congratulations to Foster in the game's final minute. "She is truly c:apable of dominating a game be­cause she's very strong and she's smart." 
"We wanted to win it (the game) for her," said Lady Gamecock Coach Terry Kelly. "I know I wanted to win it for her, and I'm sure the players did too -'Sheila Foster Day' wouldn't have been as instrumental :if we had lost. But the thing I :stressed to our players was to be concerned with 40 minutes of bas­ketball. After those 40 minutes, then we could go out and celebrate 'Sheila Foster Day' and our 20-win season." 
The Lady Gamecocks almost started celebratling too early. 
Holding a 14-·point halftime lead, Carolina scored the first six pointsof the second half -something the Irish needed more than Carolina did. 
Notre Dame did not fold, and in­stead closed the defecit to 1 5 on three occasions, the 1last coming with just under eight minutes left, when Mary Beth Schueth scored to make it 56-41. 
It was at that point that DiStanis­lao felt the game got away from her club. 
"If our forwards had been a little 
more 'take charge' at that point, we 
could have taken control of the 
game," DiStanislao said. "But with 
the exception ofShari ( Matvey ), our forwards were freshmen, and our mistakes resulted from that." 
Every time the Irish made a run at South Carolina, the Lady Gamecocks answered back with a run of their own. Such was the case after the Irish closed to within 15. 
After a pair of Carrie Bates free throws made the score 60-43, South Carolina went on a 10-0 tear, aided in part by three Irish turnovers in consecutive trips down the floor. 
When Laura Dourgherty finally ended the run of points with a jum­per from the foul line three minutes later, the issue was no longer in doubt. 
"We have to begin taking charge a 
little more offensively," DiStanislao 
said. "We have people who can 
score points, now we just have to 
figure out a way to do it." 
Bates did most of the point· 
scoring for Notre Dame, popping in 
10 first-half points and fmishing with 
14. 
Theresa Mullins, who canned 5­
of-6 18-to-20 foot jumpers in the 
first half, finished with 12, and Doug­
herty added 11. 
clubs. 
"Theresa and Debbie (Hensley) showed us excellent leadership today, something we desperately had to have," said DiStanislao. "They both had been on the floor with South Carolina before. 
"We showed a lot more heart than 
we have in the past few games," she 
...Women 
added. "1 think we have learned a valuable lesson. We have had two big games in a row -we didn't play well in the first one, and we didn't play well enough to win in the second one." 
As a team, South Carolina made only three more field goals than Notre Dame. The difference came at the foul line, where the Lady Gamecocks made 22-of-37. 
The Irish made 6-of-1 0, and were whistled for 28 fouls, while the Lady Gamecocks were called for 19. 
"I thought the officials let a lot of things go," said Kelly. "I think one of the reasons we had so many more free throws was that we were fouled a lot while we were shooting the ball. I think they (the officials) let things get out of control in the last five minutes, but I don't think the difference was because ofone-sided officiating." 
DiStanislao's only comment on the officiating of Ken Chepy and Bobby Giles, Jr. was that she thought it "unprofessional" of one official who, when Mullins said "Oh my 

Schueth's 13 rebounds Jed both 

God,"  in  disbelief  at  one  call,  
responded  "He  won't  help  you  
here."  

A blocking foul whistled against Doug\lerty midway through the first half, the third straight questionable call made by the two officials, brought DiStanislao off the bench screaming, and the conversation ended with Mary D getting her second technical ofthe season. 

Watson earns $54,000 
Miller loses sudden death playoff 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Tom Watson rolled in a putt of 40-45 feet on the third extra hole yesterday to win a sudden-death playoff against Johnny Miller in the $300,000 Glen Campbell-Los Angeles Open golf tournament. 
After Miller bogeyed the 17th and 18th holes ofthe final round to dead­lock with Watson at 271 for 72 hols, the two veterans went to sudden­death play. 
Each parred the first two extra holes, then Watson sank his deciding putt while Miller missed a long putt. 
Watson, who hadn't won in eight months, collected 1154,000 and defending champion Miller earned S32,400. 
Tom Weiskopf, who went into the final 18 holes tied with Miller at 202, finished with a 73 Sunday and a 275 total. He earned $20,400. 
Watson fired a 67, 4 under par for the Riviera Country Club course, during his regular round after start­ing 2 strokes off the pace, while Mil­
ler had a 2-under-par 69 and seemed 
in a safe position until the final two 
holes. He overshot the 17th and was 
short on the 18th. 
Watson parred both holes to force 
the playoff. He might have won with· 
out the extra three holes had he 
made a birdie putt of less than five 
feet on the 17th hole. 
Tied at fourth were Lennie Cle­
ments and Bill Rogers, the latter the 
PGA player of the year for 1981, 
with each earning $13,200. Cle­
ments had a 66 Sunday and Rogers . 70, gving them total scores of 276. 
Watson hit into bunkers on the 
first two extra holes but still 
managed to salvage his pars. 


$13-ADMISSION AND UNLIMITED USE OF ALL ATTRACTIONS (Except Shootin' Gallery) 
SPECIAL EXTENDED SPRING HOURS March 7-12: 9 a.m.-9 p.m. March 13 -April 1: 9 a.m.-1 0 p.m. 

Wale li}ISney Worlds 

johnny Miller, the defending Tom Watson came from behind to champion of the Glen Campbell overtake Miller in a sudden-death Los Angeles Open, had a chance to playoffyesterday. (AP Photo) win the event again this year, but 
©1982 Watt 011ney Product1on1 


Ihe~===================================== 



~~4()[~~-~===========================M==on=d=a=y=,F=e=b=ru=ary===2=2=,=19=8=2===p=a=g=e==ll
Molarity 





1. T\\INI< Ya.J'RE
fiE 1l\K£S 
ftkJHT. H£ REMiti05
1\1'\IR \\IS 
M£ ~ MY:iHf fo()RE
fi\1HER 
1\11\1> MORE E-VERY 
Y£1\R. 
\ 


ACROSS Traveled by air 
5 Stick 
together 10 Good or bad sign 
14 Travel fee 
per mile 15 Wing 16 Study 
~+----1~-+-t--+---i I Intently 
The Daily Crosswo_rd 
17 Tour 
1
' guide's phrase 20 Afternoon 
snack 21 Lined up 22 Fluff 
remover 23 English -+---lf-+---1 river 
©1982 Tribune Company Svndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 

Michael Molinelli 



24 lcecream 
holder 25 Malice 28 Heralds 32 Hideaways 33 Pilot 34 Drone, e.g. 35 Norwegian 
city 36 Cutsof pork 
37 French psycho· therapist 
38 Baseballer 
Mel 39 Turns bad 40 Dick or 
Mark 
41 Foreign travel necessity 

43 -"Repub-12 Gaelic lie" 13 --do·well 44 Russian 18 Wheel hubs 
News Agency 19 Atlantic 45 Prudish · travel 46 Fly means 49 Hit hard 23 Go by plane 50 Travel way 24 Change 
for 190 25 Boat 53 Air travel 26 Spaghetti 
order 27 Lively 56 Irritate songs 57 Spectral 28 Play the 58 Something coquette 
wildly 29 Undersea amusing traveler 59 Paper 30 Kind of 
money surgeon 60 Liabilities 31 Searches 61 A Ferber 33 On all ­
36 Freed DOWN 37 Bivalve 1 College 39 Freshet 
group 40 Scale 2 Unpunctual 42 Asserts 3-Kett 43 Gabs 4 iv11niature 45 Interweave 5 Benefactor strands 6 Charged 46 Hairdo 
particle 47 Stuck-up 7 Arctic 48 Wight or cover Man 8 Knockout 49 European count 50 Traveled 
9 Travels to downhill unusual 51 Short places jacket 
10 First game 52 Moviedog 11 Castle 54 Observe feature 55 Prior to 
Campus 

• 
11:15 a.m., 3:30p.m. -Computer class, APPLE Fundamentals, M-115 Computer Center/Math Building 

• 
1:30 p.m. -Workshop, Robert Hass, Robert Pinsky, Joint workshop, Memorial Library Lounge, Sponsored by Sophomore Literary Festival 

• 
7 p.m. -Lecture and discussion, "Natural Family Planning", Hayes Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by Campus Ministry 

• 
7 ·9:30p.m. -Meeting, Arts and Letters Spot· light Program, Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Department ofArts and Letters 

•7:30 
p.m. -Hockey, Notre Dame vs. Michigan State, ACC 

• 
7:30 p.m. -Reading, Robert Hass, Robert Pinsky, Joint poetry reading, Memorial Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Sophomore Literary Festival 

• 
9 p.m. -FUm, "Young Mr. Lincoln", Annl·nberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art, Sponsored by Department ofCommunication and Theatre 


T.V. Tonight 
7:00p.m. 16 MASH 22 CBS News 28 joker's Wild 34 The Ma~·Neii/Lehrer Report 46 Believers Voice ofVictory 
7:30p.m. 16 The Muppet Show 22 Family feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 t Straight Talk 
8:00p.m. 16 Little House On The Prarie 22 Mr. Merlin 28 That's Incredible 34 Great Performances 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 
8:30p.m. 46 Blackwood Brothers 
9:00p.m. 16 NBC Movie: "Walton's Wedding" 22 MAS H 28 ABC Movie: "Oliver's Story" 34 Bernstein/Beethoven 46 Today With Lester Sumrall 
9:30p.m. 22 !louse Calls 
10:00p.m. 22 Suzanne Somers Special 34 Profiles in American Art 46 jimmy Swaggart Daily 
10:30p.m. 34 Tom Cottle 
ll:OOp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The Dick Cavett Show 46 Praise The Lord 
11:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Quincy and Columbo 28 ABC News Nightline 34 Captioned ABC News 
12:00a.m. 28 ABC Movie: "Murder Can Hurt You" 46 Monday Night Basketball NCAA 12:30p.m. 16 Late Night with David Letterman 46 Blackwood Brothers 

Today in History 
Today's highlight in history: In 1732, George Washington was born at his 

parents' plantation ncar Fredericksburg, Va. On this date: In 1849, Benjamin Disraeli became leader of the 
British Conservative Party. In 1963, United Nations troops in the Congo put down a military uprising in the city of Kapanga. 
In 1979, Iran's Ayatollah Khomcini promised a national referendum on the Islamic republic he promised as a goal of the revolution he led. 
And in 1980, hundreds were reported killed in clashes between Soviet troops and anti-Soviet protesters in the Afghan capital of Kabul. 
Ten years ago: President Richard Nixon met with Chinese Premier Chou En·l.ai in Peking. 
... 
•' 


THE STUDENT RECORD STORE HAVE FOR ME?
.-, 
I,, CHEAPER PRICES PRICES··· Save 24-32% off list prices! ' MOST CURRENT SINGLES-$6.50 (compare at $8.99 list). 

1 : / Cut-outs...$2.98 to S5.98 -------------­CONVENIENCE...The NDSU Record Store is located on the Main floor of LaFortune and is open.10-4 PLUS-ordered albums take 1 week only! 
.. 

~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, February 22, 1982 -page 12
S_J2orts 
Irish upend S.C. Gamecocks 
By SKIP DESJARDIN Uncharacteristically, Notre Dame game, but called on an old stand-by Sports Editor hit important free throws down the to counter. stretch and, as Foster noted, it "We got hurt when they had that COLUMBIA, S.C. -John Paxson proved to be the difference. Spencer running game going," Phelps said. 

,.led the enigmatic Notre Dame bas­scored six straight points just when "But for the most part we controlled ketball team out ofa shooting slump it seemed the Irish offense was start­the transition game by controlling and on to a 59-55 upset of South ing to sputter midway through the the ball. It wasn't a slowdow·n, it was Carolina here Saturday, providing first half, and sank four ofhis five free strategy. That's college basketball yet another twist to a strange season. throws when Notre Dame was today. lf you want to see a 125-120 
The Irish hit 63 percent of their trying to get untracked early in the game, go watch the NBA." shots on the afternoon, including second half Phelps described the Irish the first six they attempted, and Pax­Andree held South Carolina'sJim­defensive startegy as an attempt to son sank I 0 of his II field goal and my Foster at bay all afternoon, hold­keep the ball away from Foster, and free throw attempts in the second ing the Gamecocksleading scorer to let other players do the shooting. half on his way to a 20-point, MVP just I 0 points. Andree also hit a "We wanted them to shoot from performance. couple of free throws, including the the perimeter," he said. ··we packed 
"These guys were down coming game winner, with just 28 seconds in with two different zone defenses, in here after playing poorly left on the clock. On the afternoon, and did a good job containing Fos­Thursday night," said Phelps. "They the Notre Dame center notched I l ter." showed me a lot as people out there points, including 5-of-6 from the The Irish have now reached yet today. I asked them to put their in­line. another turning point in this roller­dividual personalities into this game, When the game came down to the coaster season. With five games still and that's just what they did. wire, however, it was left to Rucker to play. including Sunday's annual 
"This is the best team I have ever to provide the heroics. With eight clash with powerful DePaul. Phelps 

J'oo.Coached. It has nothing to do with seconds to go Kenny Holmes, South has not given up hope. winning, but everything to do with Carolina's second-leading scorer, "I still ft:el we can get into the NIT people. They've responded to adver­put up what he hoped would be the if we win the rest of our games," he sity, and grown as men." tying shot. 'But Rucker swallowed said. "That's just the way I am. I'm an 
Paxson tore out of the cold spell the shot, was immediately fouled, optimist. that plagued him in the loss to Seton and calmly sunk both ends of the "This win gives us the spirit we Hall, and carried the Irish up out of resulting one-and-one to put the need. It comes just when it seemed the rut with him. game away. we were running out of fuel. :'1/ow 
"Pax took over when we needed "That kid made a great play to we're going home, and things are him the most,'' Phelps told the press. block that shot," said Foster. "We looking up again." "He showed the country that he is tried to get the ball down the court IRISH ITEMS -Paxson received truly one of the premier players in quickly and go to the hoop. We were an award from the Honeywell Corp. the nation." looking for a good shot or a foul, but as the game's most valuable player, 
Gamecock Coach Bill Foster things just didn't work out that and the company donated $1000 to echoed Phelps's praise for the Irish way." Notre Dame's general scholarship guard. Not much worked out for the fund in his name ... Rucker's block 

"It came down to Paxson and free Gamecocks. Foster told reporters as time was running out was the only throws," he said. "That was the dif­that his team tried to control the shot blocked by a Notre Dame singled out Tim Andree and Cecil ference. Paxson played a great bal­tempo of the game, but turned the player in the game ... The Irish hit Rucker for special praise after the lgame, and the other players played ball over in crucial situations. 79 percent of their free throws . game. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
'up to his level." ··we made our own problems," he 
Like dormant giants suddenly said. "We got into their tempo in the awakened, the Irish, one after anoth­first half, and when we finally got the er, turned in stirring performances. pace back to where we wanted it, we 
In action tonight 
"Tim Andree and Barry Spencer gave the ball up. We tried to control were keys early in the game," Phelps the ball, but we lost it. said. "They played terrific games. Of "It was a long afternoon." 

Michigan State cools Irish icers 
course, Cecil Rucker really came Phelps admitted problems con­

through for us down the stretch." trolling the Gamecock running By MICHAEL OLENIK on a positive note for the Irish when The score became 3-I when Gary Sports Writer defenseman Jim Brown blasted a Harpell tipped in a low shot from the 
shot from the blueline that went blueline two minutes later for the Michigan State took full advantage over Scott's shoulder and just under second Spartan powerplay goal.
Wotnen close gap, 

of a record hom'e crowd and some the crossbar for a powerplay goal Kelly Miller connected on a goal costly Notre Dame penalties by and 1-0 lead at the 8:12 mark of the only 14 seconds later when his blast scoring four goals in the second first period. from the left side found its way 
period on their way to a 5-2 win that The Spartans woke up a minute through McNamara's pads. snapped the Irish hockey team's win later however, when Gord Flegel in­The final Michigan State goal By MARK HANNUKSELA Dame will hopefully give us a streak at five. tercepted a Bob McNamara clearing came at the 14:50 mark with three 
but lose to S.C. by22 

• Sports Writer chance to play some of our players With Munn Arena filled to the pass and wristed a tough angle shot Irish players and one Spartan in the who don't play as much." brim with 6,630 Spartan partisans, into the cage as the Irish goaltender penalty box, and it came on a beauti­COLUMBIA, S.C. -The means to The Irish were ready for a fight at Ron Mason's second place club rode raced back to the crease. It was a ful play by the Michigan State the end were considerably different, that point, and the emotions carried some unyielding goaltending by Ron great individual effort by Flegel, but powerplay unit. Dave Taylor made a but when all was said and done, the over into Saturday's contest. But no S<:ott to a hard fought win which more importantly it aroused the cross-ice pass from the left point to outcome was the same. emotion was going to stop three­kept the Irish in fifth place and dealt Spartans and their previously quiet the opposite edge ofthe crease and a 
Notre Dame's women's basketball time All-American Sheila Foster on a severe blow to Notre Dame's backers after the Irish had waiting Flegel who just had to direct team lost its second straight game her day. chances for home playoffs. dominated the opening nine it into the cage. Saturday -the first time that's hap­Carolina officials deemed Satur­Just as in their last visit to East Lan­minutes. With their four goal lead, the Spar­pened all season -76-54, to the day "Sheila Foster Day" in Columbia, sing, the Irish got into penalty tans got into their tight-checking 15th-ranked Lady Gamecocks of handing out autographed pictures of problems after outplaying the Spar­game that gave them only periodic South Carolina here at the Carolina the school's all-time leading scorer, tans during the first period and Needless to say, we scoring opportunities. The burden Coliseum. man or woman, to the first 500 fans found themselves playing catch-up now lay with the league's leading 
Despite the loss, the Irish and to enter the gates. The 6-l senior hockey against a team that prides it­netminder, and Scott responded ef­their coach, Mary DiStanislao, were center out of Spartanburg, S.C., self on tough defense and outstand­are very disappointed fectively by turning away all but one able to show the 1,200 fans present celebrated her final home ap­ing goaltending. of Notre Dame's 14 third period how much progress their program pearance by scoring 33 points and "It was a matter ofus getting away shots.
with the outcome . ..' 
has made since last season's 124-48 hauling down 12 rebounds before from our gameplan of taking ad­The one that eluded him came 
embarassment at the ACC. leaving to a standing ovation with vantage ofour speed and forecheck­with 4:45 left in the game when Rex They might have showed them just over a minute left in the contest. ing, " reasoned Lefty Smith after the Bellomy tipped a low pass from .,.. more had the game been played defeat. "Needlt:ss to say, we are very The teams sparred for the remain­Brown underneath Scott's pads 
Friday night. Foster finished with I 0-ot~ 16 disappointed with the outcome, but der of the first period, with both 
No sooner had the Irish arrived at shooting from the field, most com­we intend to get back at what we do goaltenders guarding the nets in su­See HOCKEY, page 10 the Columbia Metropolitan Airport ing from an area five to eight feet best this Monday." perior fashion. The trend continued Friday evening than an article from away from the basket on the right Of course, Smith \\ :ts speaking of into the middle stanza as each team the afternoon editions of The baseline, where Foster has a patent tonight's showdown hetween the sought to gain some type ofbreak. 
Columbia Record was circulated. on a turn-around jumper. same two clubs -l·· o teams that It came for Michigan State when 
INSIDE: 

The opening paragraph of the Foster also canned 1 3-o.f-16 free feel that they are vnv capable of John Higgins was called offthe icc at story read, in part, .. Lniversity of throws, and had her jersey, No. 53, winning more than ju~t the game· 7:02 of the period for a double­
Golf-page 10 

South Carolina women's basketball retired in an emotional ceremony this evening. minor for cross-checking and un­coach Terry Kelly might want to that took place prior to the start of With free tickets going briskly at sportsmanlike conduct. Although 
Track -page 9

have a pajama party for his team after the men's game. area Marathon dealers, it is hoped the Irish had killed off the previous tonight's game with Stetson ..." "Sheila Foster is one of the best, if that the Spartans will get a taste of four Spartan powerplays impressive­
Gretzky -page 8

The story went on to call the Irish not the best, players in the game their own medicine by combating a ly, Michigan State kept working and "cannon fodder" for the Lady right now," said DiStainslao, who boisterous crowd, along with the an­it finally paid off for Newell Brown, 
Fencing -page 8

Gamecocks, and quoted Kelly as gered Irish. who outmanuvered the Irish
See WOMEN, page 10 saying "The game ...against Notre The contest on Saturday started defense for a score at the 7:47 mark. 




