----~---­
, .HPG'-page 3 

VOL. XVII, NO. 1 the independent ~tudcnt ncw~papcr ~crYing notre Jame ami saint man··s WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1982 

tank missiles stationed in the area about 250 
meters from the Israeli forces northern most posts. See story to the right. ( APPhoto) 
Hundreds arrested in West Beirut 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -The Lebanese army arrested hundreds of people in Moslem west Beirut Tues­day in its biggest show offorce since the 1975-76 civil war. 
Hidden arms also were con­fiscated in the former stronghold of the Palestine Liberation Organiza­tion and its leftist militia allies. The operation was part of a government crackdown on PLO remnants and leftist militia in the Moslem sector in an attempt to reassert control over the war-torn country. 
The state television said some of those arrested might be deported, and a Saudi Arabian magazine quoted President Amin Gemayel as saying Palestinians who entered Lebanon illegally must leave. 
Militarv officials refused to sav how many people were rounded up, but reporters saw trucks filled with people, some blindfolded, being driven away. Security sources said 450 people had been seized during the army sweeps. 
Soldiers closed streets in the central shopping district of west Beirut and checked documents of pedestrians and people in automobiles. They blocked street corners with armored personnel carriers as soldiers with bullhorns warned residents to cooperate. 
Palestinian refugees said the move was aimed at intimidating them and forcing them out of the country. Western diplomatic sources said those arrested included Palestinians -some whose papers were in order ­as well as Asians and other foreig­ners without residency permits or with permits that had expired. 
There are an estimated 300.500 to 500,000 Palestinians in Lebanon, following withdrawal of the main body of PLO fighters in August. 
Other sources said Lebanese with illegal weapons also were rounded up as part of the government's cam­
Orders rapid movement 
U·.S. re-enters arms talks with Soviet Union 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Under or­ders "to move as rapidly as the situa­tion permits," U.S. arms control negotiator Edward L. Rowny is entering a second round of talks with the Soviet Union convinced that Americans would abandon the nuclear freeze movement ifthey un­derstood the administration's treaty proposal. 
Freezing weapons at current levels, as Soviet President Leonid I. Brezhnev suggested last May, or on­ly trimming stockpiles of intercon­tinental ballistic missiles and long-range bombers would heighten the risk of nuclear war, Rowny said in an interview before flying to Geneva for the new round of talks 
beginning Wednesday. 
Rowny's reasoning: it takes the sort ofdeep reductions proposed by the United States to correct the 5-2 Soviet lead in missile power, or throw-weight. Trat edge, Rowny and other ll.S. negotiators said, heightens the risk of a first strike. 

According to this logic, the 
Soviets might be tempted to take ad­
vantage oftheir commanding lead in 
heavy ground missiles by launching 
an attack on U.S. silos. Conversely, the United States could be more in­clined to open fire before the Soviets act on their strength. 
Under orders from President Reagan "to move as rapidly as the situation permits"in the latest negotiations, Rowny will explain with "a lot more detail " the proposed treaty that he outlined during the first, six-week round of talks. The treaty's long-range goal is reducing U.S. and Soviet throw­weight to an equal ceiling. 
In the treaty's first phase, the num­ber of strategic warheads would be reduced by one third. Since the Soviets have put about 70 percent of their warheads on land-based missiles, Reagan's proposal would narrow that critical edge and, Rowny is convinced, reduce nuclear instability. 
"If a number of these people who join the freeze movement would recognize the administration has a proposal now -many of them don't 

.lOW it -I think they would abandon the movement and say, 'Don't waste time, don't go into a freeze, don't hobble yourself,"' Rowny said. 
Brezhnev, however, has dismissed the proffered treaty as "unrealistic" and designed to "insure American superiority." The chief Soviet negotiator, Viktor P. Karpov dis­missed the U.S. formula as a "one­sided" approach . 
Instead, Brezhnev has called for a 
freeze on the modernization and 
deployment ofstrategic weapons as 
a basis for negotiations. 

This tack coincides with a 
worldwide freeze movement, which 
has powerful support in congress 
and among state legislatures. Consis­
tently, polls show a heavy majority 

In California 

Strychninefound in Tylenol capsules 
CALIFORNIA (AP) -Strychnine in Extra-Strength Tylenol capsules purchased in an Oroville, Calif, drugstore caused a 25-year-old man to become ill last week, authorities revealed Tuesday. In Chicago, au­thorities said the incident 
"probably" was not connected to the seven cyanide deaths there. 
The latest twist in the baffling case prompted McNeil Consumer Products Co., which makes Tylenol, to urge retailers nationwide to withdraw all nationwide to withdraw all ofits capsules from sale -both Extra-Strength and Regular­Strength. The company had stopped producing capsules on Friday. 
The California man, who has since recovered, purchased the bottle at a Longs Drug Store in Oroville sometime before last Wednesday, when the poisonings occurred in the Chicago area, according to 
Lawrence (~. Foster, a spokesman for 
Johnson & Johnson, which owns McNeil. 
But the man, who has not been identified, did not take the con­taminated capsules until Thursday, the same day that the medical ex­aminer in Chicago announced find­ing a pattern ofcyanide deaths. 
"The FDA was notified 
immediately," Foster said. "The 
product was picked up within a 25­
mile radius by our peopl~." 

It was not immediately clear why 
news ofthe styrchnine was withheld 
from the public until five days after 
the man became sick. 

Strychine, a nervous system 
stimulant, was formerly used for 
medicinal purposes in very small 
quantities. In larger doses it causes 
convulsions and death, and it has 
long been used as a rat poi~on. 

At a news conference in Sacramento, California Health Director Bevedee :\h·ers called the discovery of the tainted bottles "cause for concern. not for panic.'" 
She said her department was sen­ding investigators to Oroville to col­lect all the Tylenol they could find. 
The strychnine victim in Oroville, about I 50 miles northeast of San Francisco, suffered convulsions and became ill Thursday after taking the Tylenol capsules. He was treated by a physician and returned to work Monday, according to Robert Knif­fen. a spokesman for McNeil. 
The Oroville man's physican reported to McNeil that he asked the man's wife to get additional Tylenol capsules from the store where the first bottle was bought. 
The FDA was informed that the wife provided two more bottles, one of which also contained pink granules, which were subsequently found to contain strychnine. The store operator removed remaining packages from the shelves, and :\tcNeil picked them up and found a 
See lYLENOL, page 4 

ofAmericans want a freeze. 
During a campaign trip to Ohio on Monday, Reagan said the nuclear freeze movement was being pushed by people who "want the weakening of America and so are manipulating many honest and sincere people." 
But Tuesday, reminded ofthe sup­port for the nuclear freeze move­ment by Sens. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., and Mark Hatfield, R-Ore., he told reporters, "I did not have any Americans in mind." 
paign to capture the weapons ofleft­ist militias. 
Police sources said those arrested were being questioned by the Lebanese intelligence agency. There was no information on where the suspects were taken. 
Lebanese Moslem leaders last week charged that the army was carrying out indiscriminate arrests, especially in the Bourj el-Barajneh Palestinian re .fugee camp. 
Diplomatic sources said 2,000 were arrested last week and 600 still were being held. Prime Minister Shafik Wazzan was quoted in local newspapers as saying the army was rounding up illegal aliens, escaped convicts, and those whose papers were not in order. 

Scientists denounce use ofnuclear weapons 
NOTRE DAME INFORMATION SERVICES An international group of scientists, nne-fourth from the Soviet Bloc, have presented to Pope Paul II a statement that denounces nuclear weapons and calls upon the nuclear powers never to be the first to use them. The statement, given to the pope when he visited the unprece­dented gathering September 24 in Vatican City, had its origin almost a year ago in an initiative of University President Father Hesburgh and Franz Cardinal Konig of Vienna. Hesburgh and Konig met in Vienna for three days with presidents and other representatives of the ~cientific academies ofJapan, India, France, Great Britain, the Vatican, the Soviet Union, West Germany, and the United States un­der the title of the Vatican's Pontifical Academy ofSciences. "Nuclear weapons are fundamentally different from conventional weapons," the statement says, adding,"they must not be regarded as acceptable instruments ofwarfare." The statement calls upon all na­tions to: 
Never be the first to use nuclear weapons. Seek immediateendofhostilities in the "appallingevent" that nuclear weapons are used in a putatively tactical situation. 
Abide by the principle that force or the threat offorce will not be used against the territorial integrity or political independence ofanotherstate. 
Seek arms race reductions monitored by the "most effective means." 
Prevent the proliferation ofatomicenergy diverted to warfare. 
Take all practical measures to reduce the possibility of 
nuclear war "by accident, miscalculation or irrational action." 
Continue to observe existing arms limitation agreements 
while seeking to negotiate "broader and more effective agree­
ments." 

The statement presents a stark scientific assessment of nuclear war: "There is no prospect ofmaking defense sufficiently effective to protect cities since even a single penetrating nuclear weapon can cause massive destruction. There is no prospect that the mass ofthe population could be protected against a major nuclear attack or that devastation of the cultural, economic and industrial base of society could be prevented." 

r 


NewsBrieb 
By The Obsen•er and The Associated Press 
ACaliforniawomanhas been treated for severe eye burns after using eye drops that her doctor said contained high levels ofacid. But law-enforcement authorities tested the drops yes­terday and said they were "perfectly normal." "We think it was a false report," said Police Chief Raymond Farmer, who reported the preliminary test results. Another officiai,JuanitaJaronshi, ofthe San Bernardino County criminal lab, said it was too early to say ifthere was something wrong with the drops. "We've only done some preliminary checking, all they've done so far is check the Ph (the level of acidity) of the solution," said Ms. Jaronski, administrative assistant to the lab director. "Based on what we've determined, there is some acid in it (the solution), but the question is whether it has more than it should. We don't have any comparative figures from the 
manufacturer yet." Visine A.C. drops normally contain small amounts of acid. It was the second case of tainted over-the-counter medication reported in a week. Seven people in the Chicago area died after taking Extra Strength Tylenol that had been laced with cyanide. -AP 
A federal judge ruled yesterday that "starch blockers" are drugs and not food, and he ordered seven manufacturers and distributers destroy their remaining reserves of the product. "The safety and effectiveness of the product has yet to be tested" by the 
U.S. food and Drug Administration, U.S. DistrictJudge Nicholas). Bua ruled. Manufacturers and distributers had contended that starch blockers, which are made from the protein contained in raw kirlney beans, were a food and thus no FDA approval was required. But Bua said that "the intent in the marketing of the product is that starch blockers be used as a drug. Starch blockers are marketed for treat­ment of an overweight condition." Manufacturers contend the product helps people control weight by blocking or inhibiting the action of amylase, a digestive enzyme, so that ~tarch is passed through the body without being absorbed. Govemment attorneys contended that prolonged ingestion could lead to health problems. 
AP 

Smugglers abandoned a truckloadofillegal 
aliens from El Salvador in the stifling south Texas desert, and four Salvadorans suffocated, autho-rities said yesterday. Eight others, suffering from dehydration, were hospitalized. "It wasn't a pretty sight," said Patrolman Henry Trevino, one of the first officers to arrive at the 18-wheel truck, where some of the dozen survivors were unconscious, some were dazed, and others were too weak to stand. An alert was issued for two men driving a second truckload of Salvadorans, including 10 people transferred by the smugglers from the abandoned vehicle. Officers had a description of one of the drivers, believed to be headed to Houston. Trevino said he tried to talk to one woman who was lying on top ofa dead woman inside the truck. "She just kind oflooked up at me in a glaze and seemed to be in shock," he said. "What makes t these people do these things?" Trevin< asked. "Things must be pretty bad over there to make these people go to these lengths to try to go to America." The Central American nation of El Salvador has been tortured by a civil war and the economy is in ruin. -AP 
The American Medical Association, 
which helped torpedo a Carter administration attempt to require warning leaflets with prescription drugs, launched a voluntary drive yesterday to give patients more information about a score of the more wide widely used medicines. "We strongly believe that patients need information about the drugs prescribed for them ..." said Dr. Joseph F. Boyle, chairman of the AMA's board of trustees. "Vp until now Ehey have had available only information that was either inaccurate, incomplete, or too complex for them to under­stand." The AMA, in cooperation with a standard-setting group called the United States Phamacopeial Convention, has prepared in­struction sheets written in plain language on the 20 drugs, including tranquilizers, insulin, oral penicillin, beta-blockers and nitrog~c~~in. Th~ pn;gram is costing $2.7 million, with $1.8 million donated by drug companies and the rest by the 240,000-member AMA. Boyle said the AMA has sent all 400,000 practicing U.S. physicians a brochure explaining the so-called "Patient Medication Instructions" along with copies of the instruction sheets. It invited all physicians to order 100-sheet pads, charging them only for postage and handling. By 1984, the physicians' group expects to have information sheets available for 100 of the most commonly prescribed drugs. -AP 
The United States and seven other countries have agreed to launch a "democratic initiative" in Central America and the Caribbean. They asked Western nations to do more to help democracy develop in the troubled region. U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs Thomas 0. Enders said Tuesday the 14-page document issued late Monday contains several separate agreements signed previously between the participating nations and represents "more clearly and firmly than ever before the blueprint of what it takes to bring peace to the region." The document was signed just before midnight Monday by high-ranking officials from Belize, Colombia, Jamaica, El Salvador, Honduras, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic and the United States. Costa Rica, which or­ganized the meeting, had issued invitations to all Caribbean Basin countries with democratically elected governments. Conspicuous by their absence were Mexico and Venezuela, two of the region's most powerful nations, which provide oil at highly favorable terms to Nicaragua and other poor nations in the area. Nicaragua and Guatemala were not invited because their governments were not elected, officials said.-AP 
Cloudy and warm today' high in the 80's. A 30 percent chance ofshowers this aften10on. Low tonight 58 with an 80 percent chance ofrain. -AP · 
-·~-·~~ 
~-~ --~~-------------------­
Wednesday, October 6, 1982 -page 2 

'New' Library Honors Hesburgh 
Imagine a facility with the capacity for two million volumes. An automated system to handle circulation and acquisition. Carpeting. A 57-year-old stock trading post decorating the second floor. Call it the Hesburgh Memorial Library. 
Director of University Libraries Robert Miller con­siders it an appropriate coincidence that the Memorial Library should boast these features when University President Father Theodore Hesburgh retires four years from now. 
The building will be named in honor of Hesburgh after he retires. 
Miller credits Hesburgh for the progress ofthe library since it's dedication in 1964. "Hesburgh gave a great deal of attention to the library," he said. "He is respon­sible for its being here. 
"When we moved in from the old library (now the architecture building), it would have been far more normal to construct a building one-half the size of this one. 
"Hesburgh had the foresight to expand the size for space. Probably no other university in this country that built a library 20 years ago hasn't had space problems." 
Although the library has a capacity for two million volumes, it currently houses about one million. 
The library ranks 66 out of 101 among university libraries in this country in terms oftotal volumes. 
But Provost Timothy O'Meara said that ranking is 27 out of 101 in terms of. volumes per student. "We should be better," he noted. 
If projects progress as planned, the library will be much better by fall 1986. 
O'Meara said the most im­portant concern during the next five years will not be with the building itself, but improving the collection of 
volumes.  "We  should  be  
doing  more  than  we  are  
doing," he added.  
O'Meara  noted  that  the  building  and  space  are  

available for improving the number of volumes, but money is needed. He said he is glad we have the build­ing...we may not be able to build one like it today. 
The Memotial Library will also undergo technologi­cal revision, in excess of $1 million. Miller expects a different configuration ofservices as soon as two years from now. 
Installation ofcomputer terminals, on the horizon for years, is in the final planning stages. Work should begin next year. 
He said routine work at the library will be handled by an integrated, automated system. The card catalog will gradually be replaced by computer terminals, which will be located within and in areas outside the facility. 
The staff size should not be affected by new technol­ogy. Miller predicts jobs will change for the better. He believes time now spent on tasks like sending notices could be spent on more positive services.· 
Miller hopes the changing technology will allow the library to play a far more active role in the educational 

~;~:.,~'"""II
Design Assistant........ Pete, The Best Bass Layout Staff.. Kash & Maria, The Buffa los Typesetter... ... Big AI Novas, The Bear News Editor..... .... Vic, The Barking Slug Copy Editor ....... Cindy, The Beaver ND Day Editor... ............... Cindy Coldiron SMCDayEditor. Lacy Underall, AHot Pis· toI 
Features Layout .. .. Deer Libby 
Editorials Layout .... Panda Paul Sports Copy Editor.........Skip, The Nutrea Trpist .. . .. .......... Mary, The Duck Photographer............ . ......... Ed, The Snake Guest Appearances..... .. ..... Chili Virgins Venereal Chicken 
A-Hunting We Will Go! 
A-Hunting We Will Go! 
Hi-Ho The Merry-0' 
A-Hunting We Will Go! 
The Observer 1USPS 598 9201 1" publtshed Monday through F•1dav and on home loc>tball Saturd~vs except dunng exam and vacnt"'" per~ods The Observer ts pubt1shed by thr studen•s of Notre Da"Tie and Sc1nt ~~ary s Cc•l tege Subscnpttons ma v be purchased for $25 per year 1515 pe< se•nf'sterl by wnttng The Observer P 0 Bc•x 0 Notre Dame lndtana 46556 
The Observer 1s a ·ne•nber of The Associated Press All reproduc t~e>n nqhts are reserved 
-Second :~'iis~ po!>!~g~ Pill(j at Nptrf' Dame ·n1dratia4I;S% · ·· 
~JifW WA\.'931 ~L118 

THEWAVEBREAKER 
The crest and crosscurrents of new wave musi has hit the shores of N.D. 
The first meeting of the New Wave Club will be Wed. Oct. 6 at ~.30 10 room 2D LaFortune 
r.........·~·~·~·~..,...~·~._....._ ............,...~ ................._.~..,......,....~-.........~~ !BAKER'S BIKE SHOP Inc! ~ ~c\J\\Nt~~ Bicycles ~ 
I Pnrts, Accessories, 1nnd Servicefor nil ffinkes I 
l  277-8866  l  
~l In Roselnnd one hnlf mile  north  ~!  
1  of cnmpus on U.S. 31  . . . .  . l  

r.,..........,..__.... ...... ...,. • ..,.. .................-.~ ..........,....,...~~....,..~.,.:.:.~~ ...... ) 

process. The terminals would increase dealings with various colleges, majors and graduate students. 
The library basement, now used for faculty offices, may become a 24-hour study area after the faculty office building is completed. 
Miller said this possibility is being seriously con­sidered, but it may pose security problems. "There would be a security problem with any building open all ofthe time," he noted. 
The study atmosphere of the library, particularly the second floor, ha.~ been a recurring topic ofconcern for Miller. He said seating in the second floor lobby was removed because it was a focal point for socializing. 
The hard surface made the noise overwhelming, and the seating was removed to reduce the number of people talking. Miller filled 
(,.,,,,_~..... 
that space with copy 
~.........._,.,,/ 
machines. 
Miller realizes that use of the library a.~ a social center can be controlled, but not eliminated. "Whenever you have two or three thousand people, there is going to be socializing going on... there is nothing you can do about it. 
"If students want a study area, they will have to make it that way." 
The Cushwa-Leighton library at Saint Mary's Col­lege reflects a different at­titude toward library 
facilities. 
Miller thinks this is partly because ofthe time when it wa.-; built. O'Meara considers the difference between the libraries a more fundamental one. 
"Ours is a university library," O'Meara said. "Theirs is a college library." 
Cushwa-Leighton has far more comfortable, relaxing environment in Miller's view. He considers it con­ducive to social use. 
But Miller does not think comfort will hinder the study environment. "The library provides adequate, delightful space for them to study," he said. 
"It's carpeted, which was easier for them to do than us, because ofthe square footage involved." 
Miller said carpeting was considered for the Memorial Library, but postponed because other univer­sities have had problems with it. 
"One university replaced carpeting three times in a ten-year period," he noted. 
Although there may not be carpeting, the Memorial Library should be a much-improved facility when the time comes for it to bear the name Hesburgh. 




The Observer Wednesday, October 6, 1982 -page 3 

Liza Salvador ofBreen-Pbillips and a fellow hall council mem­ber attended last ez,erzing's Hall Presidents Council meeting in Howard Hall where Student Bod)' vice president Bob Yonchak proposed a hall section par~)' prop~Jsal. (Photo by Ed Carroll) 


gested. 
The budget committee will meet Sunday night at .,:00 P..\1. in Fisher to discuss allocation ofhall funds. 
Each dorm presented its three best hall activities since the begin­ning of the semester for considera­tion of the Andy Sowder hall spirit award. The award will be presented to the hall president at next •.veek's meeting. 
The presidents were informed 
that Oscar Osorio of Grace Hall 
Oktoberfest activities 
•

conttnue 
Today's Oktoberfest activities at 
Saint Mary's include a traditional 
German dinner at the dining hall and 
a movie presentation, The 'Sound of 
Music, at 7 p.m. in Carroll HaiL 
This is the second day ofthe tradi­
tional three-day celebration at Saint 
Mary's. 
Students decorated the halls yes­
terday evening for the judging which will take place later in the fes­tival with the best decorated hall receiving a plaque 
Oktoberfest will conclude tomorrow, with an opportunity for students to rollerskate on campus. Rollerskates will he available at An­gela Athletic Facility from 4 to 7 p.m. for S3.50. The Sound ofMusic will he repeated at .., p.m. that evening. The traditional "Bier Garten" will be held from H to 11:30 p.m. Non­
alcoholic beverages will be available 
for students under 21 and the "No 
Problem Band" will be playing at the 
"Bier Garden." 
Oktoberfest is sponsored by the 
Student Affairs Plannillg Board. 
Saint :0.1a11·'s between the women of Holv Cross and Lewis. 
l'lnallv, Bob Yonchak's hall sec­tion parties proposal met much criticism from the council. Among the suggestions for improvement of his proposal were more emphasis on the fact that hall section parties are less alcoholic, less destructive, and contain less people than parties held in the hall's party room. The inclu­sion of a vandalism clause and specification ot the number of days 
soon as possible. 
The absentee ballot process can often be long and involved, and some states require addition­al registration to cast an absentee ballot. Once a student has sent in the registration, a ballot will be mailed to the student. 
Both the deadline for register­ing to cast an absentee ballot and the deadline for actually casting the ballot are fast approaching. 


(It's Not Just For majors 
Anymore I)~~~ 

Join the St. Mary's 
SOCIAL ACTION CLUB Next Meeting Wednesday Oct. 6 at 7:30p.m. 
in the President's Board Room LeMans Hall 

HOW do I know if the Lord is calling me to minister as a Brother? 
H 0 W does m) being a Brother meet m)· need for pra)·er, communit)· sharing and service? 
HOW do I pra)· to discover God's call in m)·life? 
WHAT are lhe various minh;lries of Holy Cross Brothers? 
-------.~-----­

"OWdo Brothers respond to the nt.'t.>ds nf our day: commitment to Jesus in the poor, thr oppn'sSl'd. in area<; of social justice? 
---++---­

WHAT is the process for ht't·oming a Rrotlu.•r'? 

/111 IIIIHTII\,I!hllllll '''!.II~ .tb11111 \11IH '!!',·•, ' pk.t'l,: kd 11\.'l.'fil .. ,lllf.t...: 1111.' 
H! /),~,,d 1\.d!tlllh., ( ..., ( \,,,llh'll l>n~.·~···' !tl1 ( tl!lnl.l',t 11.111 I 111\t,:l'll' t•l '\.,,·,~·I >.ulll '''111..' l>.tt11~,. ln..l1.,11.1 ..u,.::.::,, PIHlllt': '21\112~·, -slo 

NUCLEAR 





FREEZE 
TONIGHT ?
• 

~ ltlPrsomBi\:& rn~rn~1r~ 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 7p.m. LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
Gov. JOHN GILLIGAN v. PROF. CHARLES RICE Former Governor of Ohio Professor of Law, Director of the White Center Notre Dame Law School for Public Policy Studies, Notre Dame Law School You can't afford to miss it! 
Co-sponsored by THE FEDERALIST SOCIETY & THE OBSERVER 

The Observer Wednesday, October 6, 1982 page 4 
Martial law 



Polishprimatecancels U.S. trip 


WARSAW, Poland (AP)-Poland's Roman Catholic primate cancelled trips to Rome and the United States and refused to meet with Premier Wojciech jaruzelski because of the martial-law chiefs plans to outlaw 
Solidarity, informed sources said Tuesday. 
Church officials said Archbishop )ozef Glemp canceHed a trip to the Vatican for the cannization Sunday ofa Polish priest and put off the trip he planned afterwards to the United States and Canada, the first by a 
Polish primate. 
"A week ago, I would have said it was unthinkable that a Polish primate would not attend the canonization of a 20th century Polish saint," one Western diplomat commented. "It certainly is the
Father Hesburgh speaks to one ofthe attendants at the Ladies of 
strongest gesture by the primate"
Notre Dame Tea held lastevening in thepenthouseoftheMemorial 
since the start of martial law. 
Library. (Photo by Ed Carroll) 
Informed Western diplomats also 
~· 

~~BURGH CLUB. 
Fall Break Bus Sign-Ups Thurs.Oct. 7 6:30pm 
LaFortune little Theatre 
Buses leave Friday, Oct. :2:24pmi Return Sunday, Oct. 31 lpm
I 

RoundTrip $45
I 
One-Way $29 No Refunds 
I 
Payment must be made in full a• tine of reservation , 


w.~__J 
You've considered getting an M.B.A. 
What about an M.Acc.? 
Master of Accountancy. that is. Whether your undergraduate background rs in lrberal arts. accounting. economics or any other business-related field. the master's degree in accountancy may be the best ste;J you can take into a professional career as a CPA. financial executrve or other equally challenging and rewarding positron. 
With concentrations avar!;:~ble in Taxatron. Frnancial RepOrting and Auditing and Managerial Accounting Case Western Reserve's Weatherhead School of Management can prepare you for tomorrow. today. We've been teaching accountants for over sixty years in an accountant's town-Cleveland -home of one of the "Big Eight" accounting firms. Northeast Ohro is also 
served b:f all of the other seven. as well as other important local and regional firms. And Clevel,and is world headquarters for dozens of publrcly owned corporations. including Sohio. Eaton and TRW A full ran\je of financial aid is available. including scholarshrps. graduate assistantships and grants-in-aid. 
Whether you are interested in taxation. advisory servrces. computrng or auditing. the Weatherhead School of Management and the Master of Accountancy 

degree may be the right professional course for .·~ you. Call or write for more information today. 
Our Representative Will Be At The Campus Placement Office On Monday, October 11 
Master of Accountancy Program The Weatherhead School of Management ~1r~
.,;;;: :a Admissions Office. 423 Sears Library 
CASE WESTERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY
Case Western Reserve University 
CLEVELAND. OHIO 44106 
Cleveland. Ohio 44106 (216) 368-2073 
\ 

Please send me information and an application for the Master of Accountancy program at Case Western Reserve Unrversrty·s Weatherhead School of Management. · 
I would also like information on applying for financial aid. 
Name Address 
City State Zip Phone< 
Current Affiliation 

Are You Interested ln.•• 


Baptism? Confirmation?
I


Becoming Catholic1 
.. Discussion and PreparationBegin This Week 1!!
I 
CONTACT 
1 
1 


CAMPUS AT aJI
I 


MINISTRY 5242 
reported that plans for a meeting be­tween Glemp and jaruzelski col­lapsed because of the Communist government's plans to outlaw Solidarity, the independent labor federation which has been suspended since Jaruzelski proclaimed martial law Dec. 13. 
The diplomats said Glemp did not want to appear to give any semblance ofchurch approval to the action against the union. Glemp and the other Polish bishops have repeatedly urged the revival of Solidarity or creation ofsimilar inde­pendent unions.. 
One diplomat conceded, however, that the primate's actions were unlikely to deter the action to do away with Solidarity. 
Parliament is expected to adopt a government bill this weekend repealing the. authorization won in the summer of 1980 for labor unions independent of Communist Party control. All unions authorized under that law would be abolished, new unions would be licensed only ifun­der tight party control, and the right to strike would be sharply restricted. 
Unions also would be restricted-to 
members ofone trade or profession 
and limited until next year to the fac­
tory level, to fragment the labor 
movement "into myriads of mutual­
ly exclusive unions," commented 
one Polish journaJist and longtime 
observer ofthe labor movement. 
Popejohn Paul II in a ceremony in 
St. Peter's Basilica Sunday will 
proclaim the sainthood of the Rev. 
Maximillion Kolbe, a Polish Francis­
can who gave his life for a Polish 
army sergeant at the Auschwitz 
death camp during World War II. 
Officials said the government and 
the Communist Party were sending 
delegations to Rome for the 
ceremony. 

Glemp had planned to leave War­
saw Thursday for Rome and to 
depart for the United States on Oct. · 14 to visit 12 American and Canadian cities and possibly meet 
with President Reagan. 

However, the primate during a 
recent interview with Western jour­
nalists warned that "major distur­
bances ... could be expected" if 
Solidarity was outlawed. 

. .. Tylenol 
continuedfrom page 1 

third bottle that "showed signs of tampering." 
The Capsules were Extra Strength Tylenol with the code 1 766MA, a batch number not implicated in the Chicago investigation. They were in 24 capsule bottles. 
In Chicago, Illinois Attorney General Tyrone Fahner sid the California developments "will not alter our approach to this investiga­tion. It appears to be separate and apart."
r..........~..........,.......,..~...,.. ...........,.........., 
i  Buy  \  
f  Observer  ~  
~  c;tassijieds  \  

l ...,.......,..~...,............,.............,.....................,..\ 
STEREO CLEARANCE HOUSE HAS LOWEST PRICES 

Tenna 6 x 9 3-way speaker pair. 40oz Magnets 120 watts max. per speaker. Metal grilles. wire & hardware included. All for only 524 9:, plu; 52.75 shipping. 
Money bach qu,orantc•· Our Fr~e Cat;1:~!f; htlli mil' -1 morr• J.m1arns on all m.r 1e hrttrH~·; ol ho11re rHl 1 .11 sleren Steren 
Cle.lfO!" • HO!i··• Oepr  CH81  . 954 Be<llnur  
:itrpet ...,ohnsto~·.n.  PA  l59fl7  Phnnf'  ouotes  
I r4  393051  

:balloons &more: 
your flt'w~r alternative 
• (219) 232-0302 : 
: free Delivery : 
: 6alloort •
•
• arrongem~nts 
•
• f •
• or every occas1on •
• 
!Send Some Fun!!!• 
The Observer Wednesday, October 6, 1982-page 5 
Federalist Society 
Nuclear freeze debate tonight 
By Bobjohnson 
.Veu•s Staff 
The question of a nuclear freeze will be the topic of an informal debate between john Gilligan, for­mer governor of Ohio. and Prof. Charles Rice of the :">>otre Dame Law School tonight at -p.m. in the \lemorial Librarv auditorium. 
Rice is a prominent national spokesman for the conservative cause and will be proposing a more conservative view of nuclear freeze. Gilligan's interest stems from his past experience in government. 
The debate will focus on ques­tions such as whether or not to have a nuclear freeze and. if so. under what conditions. The moral and legal implications of a freeze will also be considered. 
The debate was arranged by the Federalist Society, which is cosponsoring the event with Tl!e Observer. Concern that the con­servative position may have been underrepresented in the past was the pervading reason for arranging the debate. 
According to Kevin Hasson, co­chairman of the society. the society wanted to "try to provide a forum where the conservative view can be 
.. . .. . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .... . . . ... . ..... . 

Attention Notre Dame Undergrads 
SUNY at Buffalo, the largest graduate center in New York State, will be on campus on Friday, October 8, 
from 10 am to 3 pm. Sign in Placement Bureau. Room 213, Administration Building. 
lnfcrmat~o,. available for prof~c~ional pro~ram~ "1 ~Y.J, medicine tll"d dentistry as well as other graduate p]ograms. 
......, r -· .;
t-t~~~. . . . •'.. ' 


presented on an equal level." 
.\!any questions, including moral ones. will be examined by Rice and Gilligan. The debate will be followed by a question and answer session. 
The purpose of the Federalist Society is to "help advance the con­servative position in discussions of the state of the legal order and public policy." according to Hasson. The society is a recently formed or­ganization in its first year of exist­ence at Notre Dame. 
Law students, law professors. and attornevs compose the national society which seeks to promote awareness of conservative views. Similar chapters exist at Harvard. Yale, Stanford. and the l"niversity of Chicago. 
>.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-:-:-:-:-:::::-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-:::::::::-:-:·:::-:-:::::::-:-:-:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::> 
·· ..  CHICAGO is comirg to· NOTRE DAME!  •••• !  
Cort:ert:::: Nov. 8 l:-:  






GLASSES 
Gobble 'em up! 
A~s· 
While supplies last. C::::..:> 
·-----------------~----y----------------------,
I0rr'llAtby's ReQ. Roast I 0 r'llAtbu's Beef'n Cheddat I
1 " I· ~ I 
I Beef Sandwich & I Sandwich & medium II b.. medium Soft Dtink I .. Soft Dtink I


IJI[ ys· J1791Arbys· J)991
toronly•.• tor only••. 
I<:::::::::::>Good thtu 10-17-82 Ic:;>~Good thtu 10-17-82 · I 1 Buy up to 6 1 Buy up to 6 I 
16545 Cleveland Road. Granger 

3425 L1ncotnway West. South Bend 
710E McK1nley. M,shawaka

•------------~---------L-----··---------------­
'<"CrOSS from un,~erslfy Par( ~'fall! ILaSalle Square Shoppmq Center/ 
r 1own & Country Shopp•nq Center) S~709 U.S 31 North South f3pnd 1807 Lmcolnway East. Sauth SP•1d 
41515 M•am1. South BPnd
rNorth V1ll~ge .'IA,lfiJ 
tPiayfandl 
l~r:roo;c; from Scoltc;daJe Mall! 
.. 

-~-,·~---------­


Editorials 
Wednesday, October 6, 1982-page 6 
Partying and Drinking 101 
I 
Perhaps you may have missed the news to Eddy or Dunn roads. But I do not think that we should use al­my friends when they drink; normally quiet or item that was tucked away in the recesses of The record ofthe last few weeks in campus cohol for bravery, or escape, or to gain social reserved friends who insist on giving a "high­The Observer last week, but for many Campus news provides ample evidence that we need acceptance. I do not believe that the intent of five" after a few beers at Corby's are very, very View residents, there was no choice but to not look far to see tragic examples of this alcohol should be to make us loud and ob­distressing and irritating to me. take notice ofthe particular story. These resi­problem. There have been one death and noxious. I hope that this editorial might be a plea for dents of Campus View received letters from several near-fatal injuries in alcohol-related Moreover, I do not believe in getting drunk. some sanity and discretion as I believe that Dean of Student Affairs, James Roemer, incidents. The Observer ran a series ofquizzes I used to enjoy the art ofgetting pickled very Dean Roemer's letter was intended to be, not 
expressing his concern for incidents which concerning alcohol throughout last week. much, but in the last few years I have come to only for those at Campus View, but for have surrounded the use ofalcohol at Campus Ifone needs more proof, drop by almost any see that there was too much of the outside everyone at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. We 
View apartments. "major-league" party on-campus running at world that I was missing. I like to be able to are now setting trends that will be with us for full speed during a football weekend. There receive all the signals and messages that the the rest of our lives, and we all have the will always be one drunk guy who has beenRobert Lloyd Snyder 
put to bed by his roommates, or girls helping one of their friends to the nearest crowded Mid-week bathroom before unconsciousness takes hold. More persuasion; Corby's on a Saturday night when girls are sitting on the bar screaming The letter has puzzled many residents of along with every song and elbows and bumps Campus View for various reasons. A common provoke drunk males to throw beer on each sentiment has been "Who is Roemerto tell me other. It is also important to remember that what I can't do off-campus?" Another ques­nearly 50 percent of the people, on the 
tion concerned the tone ofDean Roemer's let­average and during weekends especially, are ter; was the letter merely a plea for discretion, underage. or a veiled threat? The third, and perhaps most telling comment upon Roemer's letter is the I am not trying to set myself up on a high quiet acknowledgement that "just maybe horse in this matter -I am also guilty of Roemer is right for once on an issue, but having been put to bed by my roommates and Campus View is not the culprit." throwing beer at Corby's and driving legally 
I do not intend to discuss the problems of drunk. And folks, anytime we have had more 
alcohol (ab)use at parties at Campus View. I than acouple ofbeers and are driving a car, we think that the problem extends far beyond are all considered legally intoxicated. Campus View and Notre Dame apartments, or Am I saying that we should abandon the use 
even Corby's and Bridget's. The genesis ofthe ofalcohol at N.D.? Not in your wildest dreams problem with Notre Dame parties can only be -besides, almost all my friends know how traced back to the first time we got sick at a much I like beer. I think most of us really like party in our dormitories on campus, and not beer. 
Support Campbell products boycott 
Last Wednesday evening in the Library some type of health insurance coverage. Basi-A boycott creates a strong pressure on the '83. The vote will either cause a continuance Auditorium, Olgha Sandman conducted a . cally, the workers are asking for a small corporation. It, coupled with the laborers or a termination ofND's boycott. lecture which less than fifty students at· amount of human dignity, and they are strike, can cause the company to negotiate at tended. She spoke about FLOC, the Farm attempting to achieve this through the non­the bargaining table. The lettuce and grape All that is being asked ofthe student, then, is Labor Organizing Committee, and this group's violent method ofa strike. boycotts of prior years attest to its effective­a minimal amount of help. FLOC needs your battle against the Campbell Company. By the How then, can a Note Dame student supply ness. Boycotts produce results. assistance. Support the boycott in the upcom­
assistance? The problem appears to involve The boycott suggested is already being ing referendum. Personally discontinue the the laborers and the corporation only. The practiced by many consumers. In fact, due to a purchasing of any Campbell's products. By
Alison P. Hilton 
truth lies, however, in the fact that the con­1980 student vote, the Notre Dame com­these two small signs of support, the farm sumer does hold influential power as well. munity currently does not porchase any workers will be on their way to winning the
Guest Columnist 
FLOC appeals to the people to use this power Campbell's products. This policy will be sub­fight. But they cannot succeed without your and aid their cause by means ofa boycott. ject to a follow-up referendum in February of help. 
I 

small number of people present for the talk and the nature of the subject itself, the situa­tion appears to have no correlation to the life of the Notre Dame student. However, a con-· nection does exist-quite a vital connection. 
The whole issue started in August of 1978 when over 2000 farm workers marched off fields in Ohio controlled by Campbell's. Most have yet to return. The dispute is over unsatis­factory working conditions. The laborers have been voicing discontentment of many types since '78, and for good rea•;ons. 
The typical farm worker knows a life·of ut­ter poverty. He labors to earn an average hour· Iy wage (dicatated by the corporation) of a mere SI.96. Young children are often forced to labor in the fields alongside their parents, for every penny ofearning is crucial. Housing, supplied by the employer, often consists of a shabby one·room dwelling for an entire fami­ly. Plumbing does not exist in these settle· ments, and many camps do not meet Ohio Department of Health standards. Frequently, the farmer sprays pesticides on the fields with the worker still among the plants. To add to the saga, the National Labor Relations Act does not cover a farm worker. This means he does not even possess the right to form a uni­on and to have his voice of complaint heard formally by corporations. 
In response to their tragic circumstances, the workers are asking reasonable demands. They call for a fair wage of $3.50 an hour with a minimum of28labor hours guaranteed over a two week period. In addition, they request 


P.O. BoxQ 
Opposing United Way editorial 
DearEditor, Bardsley have been portrayed as insensitive I assume the writers were merely making 
towards the ideals that the· United Way a poor attempt at satire; what evolved was a 
It is understandable that Paul McGinn and represent. There is no doubt in my mind that confusing personal attack on United Way John Higgins find the United Way Student if McGinn and Higgins had the opportunity ChairmenJohn Bardsley and Tom Bogen. Fund Drive important enough to write an to witness the amount of time and energy The chairmen's quotes must have been editorial about the drive. McGinn and Hig­that Bogen and Bardlsey voluntarily spent taken out of context -if not completely gins appear to disagree with the method of on the drive, they would have been less contrived by the authors themselves. This collection that the United Way employs. compelled to mock them. It is a shame that subtle attempt at humor fails because it is They chose to communicate this dis­Bogen and Bardsley must needlessly waste used at the expense of the chairmen's per­
agreememt by writing a satirical edtorial. more time explaining their misrepresenta· sonal integrity. Unfortunately, many members of the Notre tion; no thanks to McGinn and Higgins. When I see Bardsley and Bogen and their Dame -St. Mary's community did not gang up late at night -forfeiting precious 
realize the satire involved. Whether or not it Sincerely, time -to count the day's contributions, I was from the writer's inability to fully con­Bill Kramer, '83 don't see conmvmg, pressuring guilt· vey this theme ofsatire, I am not sure. I am inflicters. I see individuals making personal sure that Tom Bogen and John Bardsley (CO· sacrifices to raise as much money as possible chairmen of United Way) have spent much for charity -to help people whom they do of their time these last few days explaining not even know. to people that they never said what they DearEditor: That the writers can portray such in­were quoted as saying. dividuals of high social value in such a 
I do not disagree that McGinn and Higgins I submit this letter as visible oppostion to degrading manner is beyond my com· have a right to voice their opinion. I do dis­the content and style ofthe editorial,Foron· prehension. agree with the methods through which they ly two bucks, if's a bargain, written by Paul chose to explain their opinion. Through McGinn and John Higgins in the Oct. 4 Ob­Sincerely, these fabricated quotations, Bogen and server. Richard Paxton, '84 
The Observer-.-.-co-=~= Editorial Board Department Managers 
1 f.,. I )/Jioter '' J.n mdepcndcn: ncw'!'.ll'l'f puhl"hcd h· the ,t11denh of tht· 
Editor·iii·Cbief...... .... \'liehad '\1onk Business iHanager ........ ........Ton\ .\idlo ·n'"'''''Y of Notre D.1mc du !..1< .1nd ~.unt M.~r\'\ ( ulk.~:c. It ,loe' r-t>l !ll\t'"·lrlly 
.Umwging Editor .. Ryan \'er lkrkmoes Controller ..... .. Eric ~chul/ rdk..t the pol11 wo; of the Jdmtn"tr.lllt>lt t>f t•tthcr tmtitulton The new' '' rq,ort Executi1•e .\'eu·s f.'difor... .. ........ Kdli Hint Adt•erlising Manager.. .............Chrio, ()wen hi .1' .11 ruuteh· and ·'' ohJt~ '''ely ·'' l'lh'thlc h!ttonJI' rcprc<;cnt the Oj'1:11on of S.ltC Executit•e Editor... . .. \largarct Fosmoe Production .'Hanager.. ........ \1aura \lurph' .1 m.ttonty of the Fdtton.tl Bo.trd. ( o.nmt·nt.lrll''· Oj'intons .tnd lctl<"r' .tn· the \'lt'"'' .\jmrts Editor...... .. .. Chris ~ecdles Circulation J1anager .... .......Ra\ lnglin u! the1r author-;_ ( ol11mn ~!'.l<t' '' JvJd.thk t<> .dl memhn, of the tommurllty..wJ Editorials Editor............ ..Paul \lc(iinn .\)·stems .Wanager....... ......... Bruce Oakln the fr{'(' expre,s1on of \'.lr)'lflg opm1ons on ..:ampu>. through l~ter>. 1> enLoungt>J. Features Editor.... . ..............Tari Brown Photo Etftlt1r. . ............ Rachc:l Blount 

Founded November 3.1966 


What's in a name? 
I
t all happened the day that my parents named me. little did they realize the burden that they were· placing upon my shoulders. At the ripe old age oftwo hours, I began what was to become a daily struggle to assert my identity. 
Tatl Btown 
features 

When I was in my pre-school days, my mother enjoyed telling "baby stories" to my little brother and me. One story has always stood out in my mind as being totally indicative of my identity problem, a problem that grew like a thirsty sprout when finally given water. As a baby dressed in my stereotyped pink outfit, bonnet, pinafore, bobby socks and all, my mother and I would stroll along Kentucky Street in Detroit, I in my stroller and she pushing it. We would be greeted by the neigh­bors who would be taking their after-dinner walks. 
"Oh, what a nice little boy you have!" they would say. 
"Isn't he cute, George? 
Being the even-tempered woman that she is, my mot­her replied with all the coolness ofan arctic iceberg that I was a girl. 
"Oh. I'm sorry," they would say. 
I always wondered whether they were sorry that I was a girl and not a boy or whether they were sorry that they had been mistaken. From the tone ofvoice that my mother used I assumed it was the former instead ofthe latter. 
It was at this juncture in my career as a baby that creativity became the word of the day. Not to waste four years ofcollege education, mom decided that the best way to identify her daughter as such was to tape a bow to her hairless head. Needless to say, that didn't stop people. In an attempt to rectify the situation, mom gave me the mortal nickname, "Terri." Ifyou look at my by-line you will notice that I have changed the spelling. There's a good reason. 
Most people aren't protective oftheir names. I am. Would you like to be mistaken for a fellow student named Terence Adolphus just because both ofvou have the same nickname? The ironic part was that Ispelled it differently. My name was spelled with an "i," not a "y." To the day I die, I will maintain that the "y" ending denotes that it is a male term, not female. 
No one noticed when I changed my name to "Teri." 
Mail still came addressed to "Terry." 
With little hope left, I decided, while in my "unique" phase, to really change it. Taking a hint from my friends from New England, I created a phonetic spelling, "Tari." Would you believe, no one noticed' 
While in the depths ofdespair (and my sophomore english class with three other girls named "Terri"), I dumped the old nickname in favor ofa new acronym, "TB." If! hadn't been so desperate, I might have con­sidered the implications ofsuch an acronvm. Instead I was forced to ride the wave oftuberculosi~ jokes. What price fame! 
I don't knpw why but when I got to Notre Dame I sud­denly reverted to my formal given name. (It probably has something to do with the thousands offorms that we have to fill out, last name first, first name last.) "Therese" is not one ofthe more common names to have or to pronounce. Despite my stubbornness, I will even tolerate mispronunciations of"Theresa". It may not be common but at leas.t it is definitely female. And, after all, it is me. 


Senot Kelly's setves a balance 
~e hardest part about reviewing 
.1 restaurants is keeping it a secret. I try to avoid waitresses' seeking eyes, but it's hard to be subtle while furiously scribbling notes berween bites. I wonder how many people might be peering through that win­dow in the kitchen door. They probably don't even care, but a little intrigue makes the evening more enjoyable. 

John Higgins 
restaurant review 

This week my always mysterious and ever cliche dining partner and I stopped in Senor Kelly's on North Michigan Avenue downtown. Opened just recently, Senor Kelly's capitalizes on the latest fad in res­taurant motifS-r:,e Mexican-Irish cafe. Similar restat.rants in other cities really play up the theme in their menus and decor. I was very in­terested in seeing if Kelly's would be as much fun . 
The answer is, in a word, no. The restaurant is indeed nicely decorated, but, save for the waitresses dress, has no hint of either South ofthe Border or the Emerald Isle. Even the simplest touch, piped in music, is missing. The menu fares better, offering everything from corned beefand cabbage to enchiladas. But there are no real creative dishes here and the menu could be much more en­tertaining. 
Senor Kelly's has a wonderful wine list: margaritas, margaritas and strawberry margaritas. I generally don't even like margaritas but after one taste, I quickly ordered a pitcher ( 40 ounce for 59.00). A regular 8 ounce glass is 51.95 and the 17 ounce double is S2.95. The selec­tion ofimported beers ranged from Guinoess Extra to Carta Blanca, all at s1.75. 
The appetizer was the hardest choice and the biggest disappoint­ment. The chile con queso, a fondue ofcheeses, tomatoes and onions with flour tortilla chips ( S2.75 ), and the Mexican pizza, a flour tortilla topped with meat, cheese and other goodies seemed interesting. We opted for the quesadilla, a flour tor­tilla folded and filled with melted cheese, peppers and chopped tomato. I use that description loose­ly for there was hardly any cheese and the garnish was minimal. The cold gazpacho ~-oup ( S.95) was well prepared and filled with chopped vegetables. 
The Irish portion ofthe menu was rather ordinary and limited to 

corned beefand cabbage ( S4.95 ), Irish lamb stew ( S4.95) and a corned beefsandwich ( S2.95). The Mexican offerings were more ex­tensive with various combinations ofcorn and flour tortillas and beans, beef, chicken and pork from under 
S2.00 to 116.95 for the crabmeat enchilada (the best idea on the menu.) We had the wet burrito 
( 53.95) and the chicken chimic­hanga ( 53.95 ). 
The burrito, a flour tortilla filled with shredded or ground beef, beans, lettuce and sauce, was huge, the beefwas wonderfully seasoned and thick with cheese. The chimic­hanga, with shredded chicken, beans and cheese wrapped in a flour tortilla and quickly deep fried, was very good if a little bland. 
Their best kept secret is the St. Louis-style barbecue. The half-slab ofribs ( S 7.95) was the best I have ever tasted (and I'm a big Lee's fan.) The sauce was spicy, but not too hot. I can't believe their barbeque doesn't receive more attention on their menu. 
Senor Kelly's biggest drawback is their service. There were too many small problems to overlook. The first thing I noticed when we were seated was the wilting daisies at our table. Daisies keep for at least two or three days before looking this bad. Flowers are a nice touch, but . 
Also, the basket of tortilla chips we were served were stone cold and the hot salsa dip wa-s watery and not at all spicy. The quesadilla was served whole, not sliced as it should have been. The waitress, while friendly, seemed exasperated when we delayed ordering to enjoy our drinks. My burrito came with ground beef, not shredded as I re­quested. The bar had run out oftwo Mexican beers on the menu. Finallv they were out ofone ofthe desser;s we ordered. 
Senor Kelly's suffers from a problem common to many new res­taurants. The main dishes are well prepared, but many smaller but im­portant aspects escape attention. On the balance, the good food out­weighed the shortcomings. 



Classic Bruce 

N
ebraska is a classic album. But it may never become a popular one. Why is it a classic' Basically, Springsteen has taken his subject, the common man, and has encompassed on a single solo album what he 
· took five to originally do, and added a new dimension as well. On his first two albums, Greetings From Asbury• Park, N.j. and The Wild, The Innocent, and TheE Street Shuffle, Springsteen dealt with com­mon men trying to understand why they are in their position. 
EdKontady 
record review 
OnBorn To Run, also a classic ofits time and perhaps in the future, 
Springsteen showed the common man trying to break out ofthe 
society that holds him down and tries to drown him in hopelessness. 
WithDarkness On The Edge OfTown, the common man isn't trying 
to run away anymore -it was time to stick it out and survive, and in 
a perverse sort ofway, enjoy beating life at it's own game. 
On The River, Springsteen tried to present a complete picture of 
the common man's.:view ofsociety, but the time was not ready. 
Something seemed missing, out ofplace, and with Nebraska, 
Springsteen showed us. 
What was missing were the reasons why a common man does the things he does. A perfect example is"Johnny 99": "Now judge I got debts no honest man could pay/The bank was holdin' my mortgage and they was taken my_ house away/Now I ain't sayin' that makes me an innocent man/But it was more'n all this that put that gun in my hand". 
But it's more than the lyrics that set this album apart as a classic, 
and Springsteen as a premier musician. His music isn't just accom­
paniment, it sets a tone for the song to be adequately presented. This 
is why The River was not as strong as it could have been, and why 
Springsteen decided not to use the songs on the upcoming EStreet 
Band album. 
During his last tour, Springsteen read and was deeply influenced 
by Joe Klein's book, Woody Guthrie: A Life. This is reflected in this 
somber look at a somber subject. The pop melodies of"Hungry 
Heart" and "Cadillac Ranch" can't carry the message Springsteen is 
trying to get across. 
This evolution of his music is a logical one, going from the CBS­demanded folk-rock-pleading style ofGreetings ..., the foundation oftheE Street Band on The Wild ..., the maturation of the Band on Born To Run, the harder rock ofDarkness . .., to the pop ofThe Ri11er and now the somber folk/rock, but more importantly non-pop sound ofNebraska. 
Now on to "Nebraska" itself: 
The vocals are an important part of this album, with harmonica breaks on almost every song. On"Atlantic City", "State Trooper", "My Father's House", and "Highway Patrolman", Springsteen gets different qualities out of his voice, and all of them are sucessful. The strumming guitar on the first three set the precise tone, while the finger-picking style of the latter lends it to the story structure of the lyrics. 
On "Mansion On The Hill" and "Used Cars", Springsteen puts a dreamy quality to the vocals, guitar, and even harmonica, letting the far-away lyrics remain far-away. 
The four songs that mark this album are the title cut, "Johnny 99", "Open All Night", and "Reason To Believe". "Nebraska" opens the al­bum and its harmonica opening and the dirge-like quality ofguitar, vocals and lyrics set the tone for the album, letting you know that something is wrong with this society. On "Johnny 99", you find out what it is and why. It's slightly rock influenced to set it off from the others, driving along with a good beat, although there is no drum­ming on the song or the album. 
"Open All Night" is another rock-influenced song, upbeat and driving, with strong vocals and quick guitar moves, a songofcelebra­tion -knowing that the common man is overcoming his obstacles to happiness. On the final cut, "ReasonTo Believe", Springsteen adds the final lyrical piece to his pursuit of the workings ofthe common man: "Struck me kinda funny/how at the end ofevery day/you can find some reason to believe.'' 
_j 
-r-~---------­
The Observer Wednesday, October 6, 1982-page 8

Corrpare 0 Ul Pr.~..~s Inc I udi ng Ice, Cups and Don't Forget Deposit Charges!!! 
UNITED ''THE BEER CO· " 
Take Eddv St. South from campu~s-over the brictge-Now count 5 stoplights-Past new police & fire station-Cross R.R. &turn right-YOU HAVE ARRIVED!! Corner SampJe & 9hapin 287-1067 . Early Birds Every Saturday Morn1ng -Early Birds 
Wednesday, October 6, 1982-page 9 
The Observer will accept class1f1eds Mon­
day through Fnday. 10 a.m to 4.30 p m 

However. class1f1eds to appear 1n the next 1ssue 
must be received by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day 
pnor to insert1on. All class1f1eds must be prepaid. 
e1ther 1n person or through the mall 





1Classifieds 
NOTICES  WANTED: Responsible person to ptck up professional couple s children from school 3 daysfweek. supervise play: ap­px. 10 hrsfwk: 5fhr & gas; car reqUired 234-4620 evenings.  Need 2 or more GA tix to any home game esp MIAMI B1g buck $$ Maureen 5097 (SMC)  HELP II' Will trade 2 30 yard ltne Miami GA tickets for 2 Penn State GA·s (willing to deal) or will pay b1g $ s 1f no trade!I' Call Margie at 4416.  WILL SWAP 2 MIAMI GAS FOR 2 PITT GAS. CALL STEPHEN 3407 NEED M1am1 GAs Call 277-7529. 277­7057. or Connie 255-2988  THE EAST COAST CLUBS of N.D. spon­sor a MIAMI tailgater SATURDAY. On GREENFIELD across from SR. BAR Look for flags and s1gns and lhsten for the accents. See all from MASS. on SAT  
1$ YOUR HAIR GETTING IN THE WAY OF YOUR STUDIES?? CALL MICHOLE FOR A HAIRCUT TODAY' ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND $6 FOR GIRLS BEST TO CALL AFTER 3 AT 7850 WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM $2995 64K Microcomputer,letter quality pnnter, word processing software. CPfM, Baste. Call277·7720  I need a nde to SPRINGFIELD, IL. (along 1-55 to St. Louts) Will share usual. Can leave 10(20. PLEASE CALL! Let's get outta here'! 5202 (SMC) NEED RIDE TO LITTLE ROCK OR MEMPHIS for October Break Can leave as early as Wed. night. Will share driv1ng. usual. Call Greg 234-2456 Need ride to Jersey Shore. near Deal or  THEREONCEWASAGIRL FROM N.D. WHOSE PHONE WAS 7983 SHE NEEDED GA'S SO HELL WOULDN'T RAISE FOR THE GAME VERSUS MIAMI-EE (had to make 1t rhyme. you know--D1ane WILL pay big bucks. the parental unils are very wealthy') WILL PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENN STATE GA TIX. CALL 312-565-5959 COLLECT AND ASK FOR STEVE  Need 1 Stud Tix or 1 GA Tix for Miami Please call Mary 8067 NEED 2 MIAMI GAS. CALL MIKE. 277­6880 GIRLFRIEND WONT GIVE IT UP DURING VISIT . UNLESS SHE GETS A STUD. TICKET TO ARIZONA GAME. CALL PHIL,AFTER 6:00. 277-0249  2 Miami Ttx 50 yd. Line!I Best offer 277­6646 needed: 2 Miam1 GAs for Mom & Dad This is their only chance to see the Irish in action.CALL MARY 8864 or 8966. I need 3 G.A.·s for PENN STATE Were talktng do or dte situation. Ask for Jay at 1779. ...J.... WILL SWAP 2 MIAMI TICKETS FOR 2  THE IRISH SOCCER TEAM WANTS TO THANK ALL OF THE FANS WHO CAME TO THE DAYTON GAME LAST FRIDAY NIGHT. YOU WERE GREAT! WE HOPE TO SEE YOU THIS FRI. FOR W. MICH NEW WAVERS PUNK ROCKERS RAS­TAMEN Be the first on your block to jotn NDs first New Wave Club. The Club with the MODERN SEAT FOR MODERN FEET  
Lake Michtgan beach cottage 30 mi. from NO Sleeps 12 Ftreplace Outdoor bar· beque Ideal for houseparties $150 3 day weekend phone 616 469 0148 Typing Wanted. 25 years experience $1.00 page. Call Phyllis 259-2501. HERPES FACTS booklet $2 Box 4682, So Bend. IN 46634 NEED A RIDE TO BUFFALO OVER FALL BREAK--WILL PAY CALL ROB 6721  Monmouth County area. For October break. I can leave on Thursday. Oct. 21 Please call 4624. Need JUST ONE Stud MIAMI TIK Call Steve8670 Ride needed for 2 to Connecticul for Fall Break. Will share usual. Call Matt--3267 RIDE NEEDED TO ROCHESTER, NY FOR FALL BREAK WILL SHARE USUAL. WANDA 7770 RIDE NEEDED TO MILWAUKEE FOR  LONGLEY. I NEED 2 MIAMI TICKETS AND 1 PENN STATE. PLEASE CALL CINDY AT 7092 Need 4 Miami GAs Call1225 HELP!! Two damsels coming to visit from West Virginia are IN DISTRESS. Why? Well, they need two GAs to the MIAMI game and cant seem to fmd them. Please help ...CALL 8765 today.  NEED 2 MIAMI GAS BADLY CALL TOM 8706 Need MIAMI tix-Please call1738 I need MIAMI tics so BAD that it ts UN­REAL !! call John 3460 (std or GA) Need Miami tix Call Jim at 1654 NEED 1 MIAMI GA-Iittle bros 1st game!CALL CHIP3137 NEED MIAMI GA TIXS! PETE 232-1466  PENN TICKETS. CALL STEPHEN 3407. MIAMI MIAMI MIAMI MIAMI MIAMI Desperately need TWO (2) M1ami G.A. s Call John at 1462. Need 10 GA's for Mtami and 2 St. Tics wtth IDs.$ Steve at 1061 "NEED 2 GA tix for Mtami game. If you want more than $20 per ticket. please don·t call If you want less. call Shirley at 239-5303.  Sign ups Wed. at 8:30 in 20 of the LaFourtne center BOP TIL YOU DROP SAN FRANCISCO CLUB: I missed the meeting--please let me know what"s up Thanks. Mane 277-0487. MARK. Sorry the subscriptiOn dtdn·t come through. but thanks for the rose. Mary Columbus Club Mixer After the Game Call Jamie Kimmet for details  
STUDENT REP NEEDED to promote our annual Spnng Break trips to Florida and our Winter Ski trips. Reps. receive FREE TRIPS plus commisston. Call or write: COAsTAL TOURs. INC , P 0. Box 68. Oak Forest. IL 60452. (312) 535·3212. CINDY FERBER IS 21 TODAYI SEND BEER AND OTHER ALCOHOL TO 419 BADIN REGRETS ONLY 8029. I AM SERIOUS, SHE IS VERY THIRSTYIIIII PS. DON'T FORGET TO ASK HER ABOUT THE WHO CONCERT. TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 D.C. October Break Bus Signups: Sun· day, October 10 lrom 7·9 p.m. in LLaFortune Ballroom. $75.00 roundtrip must be paid in advance.  BREAK WILL SHARE EXP. CHANTAL 7770 RIDE needed for TWO to MPLSfST PAUL area for OCTOBER break. for oc­tober break. Will pay usual. Call Phil or Lou at 8760 ATTENTION SKIERS: Marketing coor­dinators needed to promote high quality ski and beach trips on campus. Earn com­mission plus FREE TRAVEL. Call Summtt Tours, 800· 325-0439 RICH ALUMNUS WILL PAY ANY PRICE FOR MIAMI TICKETS. CALL DANIEL R. (617) 492-8400 HELP! IS ANYONE GOING TO SYRACUSE FOR FALL BREAK? I NEED A· RIDE AND WWILL HELP SHARE GAS ETC.. PLEASE CALL CHRIS AT 2703  Need 3 or 4 GAs for ARIZONA game. Please call Tom ­3360 WANTED: 2 Miami GAs CALL: Vince x3155 NEED 2 MIAMI GAS NAME YOUR PRICE. CALL 3242 HELP! MARCHING BAND MEMBER NEEDS TWO MIAMI TICKETS FOR FAMILY WANTED: 4 G.A.s for Penn State game Will pay btg bucks. Call collect. Steve Longley at 312-565-5959, ext. 2081 NE Need 4 MIAMI TIX. Call Jasper at 232­7017  FOR SALE: 2 Miami and 2 Arizona tix. Call233-2163 or 234-5778. NEED 1 MIAMI GACall3137 1 stu Ariz ticket tor sale. Callt813 For Sale: 8 Miamt GAs. Call Dave 3673. Sale me your M1ami GAs Call Dave 3673 I Need 2 Student tickets for the Mtamt game :Call Jeff at 6710. NEED MANY G.A. s for Mtami, call Tim at 289-7640 NEED 4 GAs FOR MIAMI CALL DAVE 277-0955 I NEED 2 GAs FOR MIAMI $$$$$  NEEDED: Student Ttx for Mtami. wtll do anything to get them. CALL 1623 parents coming to ND for parents day & little sister is tagging along ' need one M1ami GA or next week i"ll be back 1n sub­urban boredom' Will pay enough for you to retire nch. sam 1436. NEED MANY MIAMI STU & GA TIX CALL KARL OR CHRIS AT 1751 NEED 2 MIAMI GAS AND t STU CALL SUSAN AT 284-5526 Wanted 4 ·tickets in a row to Arizona game. Call288-0955 or 277-3604 TWO MIAMI STUDENT TIX FOR SALE. CALL 287-3538  DAN KEUSAL AND FRIENDS ATTHENAZZ FAt OCT8 10P.M FEATURING: JOHN MCEACHEN MIKE THORTON ANNBERNERS DEBBIE HILL ANN PERRIN TERRY AUSTIN IN SEARCH OF.. One attractive SMC CHICK who I saw twice on Fnday afternoon. riding her btke at St Mary s College and satd ht to me both ttmes If you think you·re her. PLEASE call 3434 or 8904 and ask for Chuck WOULD YOU LIKE TO GET aHEAD. IF YOU DO COM TO THE 'I LIKE TO GET  
LOST/FOUND LOST: PINK PLAID UMBRELLA OF GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE WOODEN HANDLE AND LEATHER CARRYING STRAP. CALL MOAT 4076 PLEASE'!!' LOST: ID bracelet of great senttmental value, engraved with 'Bridget If found please call 232·5208 Re: Lost Umbrella. I screwed up'!! If you have found a pink platd umbrella, call me at 4670! (ask for Mo) P S. No. I m not a frosh.just a atrhead. LOST: Pair of ladies glasses. plasttc brown frames with tint of apricot. Please call239·7164 (Kathy). SnLLLOST: Large bull Answers to the name of Bevo. Call 8765 to provide information (You know who you are.) LOST:t MANILA FOLDER LABELED GERMAN CALL TOM 8711 LOST· KEY CHAIN AIR FRANCE WITH  NEED RIDE OR RIDERS TO TAMPA-ST. PETE AREA FOR BREAK CALL NANCY 3397. Wanted: Miami GA's. Cafl287-3538. Need GA·s to Mtami, Arizona or Penn St. Call 526~ (SMC) Wanted: R1de to lndpls. on Frt. a"ernoon Oct. 8. Call Heather (SMC) 5515 or Tern (SMC) 4127 need nde to detroit area or e. lansing for oct. 8. please call mary at smc, 284-5314 Riders needed to Daytona Beach, Florida or any points along the way for October Break. Call Denny at 277-0838 soon FLORIDA: 2 people looking for a ride to Ft. LauderdalefBoca over October break. Call x t 421 and ask for Greg or Mark. NEED A RIDE TO GREEN BAY FOR OC­TOBER BREAK,CALL MIKE 288-6008 Need ride this weekend to Milwaukee or O'hare. Call John Higgins at 287· 4186 or 239-5323 and leave a message. need a ride to CINCINNATI on OCT brk call TIM 1579  Desperately needed 2 MIAMI GA's will pay mega$$ Call Randy 7982 NEED ONLY ONE GA to MIAMI game' GOOD$$' Dave 8296 NEED TWO TICKETS FOR MIAMI;GA OR STUDENT:CALL 1247,ASK FOR PAT OR J. PAUL GETTY !NEED TICKETS FOR THE MIAMI GAME. CALL277-t709 FOR SALE: 2 ARIZONA STUDENT TIX 35 DOLLARS OR BEST OFFER CALL SCOTTII60. PENN STATE TICKETS needed for parents. Call 4624 NEED: 2 GA's Any Home Game KEN 1722 NEED 2-4 GAs Miami KEN 1722 NEED 2 MIAMI STUDENT TICKETS! CALL MICHELLE 3793 Need two GAs for any remaming home game, w1ll pay cash money. Call Dan at 234-9580 Desperately need 2 Penn State GAs for Mom's b-day. Call linda 4412 DESPERATELY NEED GAs FOR MIAMI.  CALL SOYVIN AT 1603 NEED 4 ARIZONA GAS SMITTY 1075 NEED 1 MIAMI GA WILL PAY TOP DOL­LAR CALL MIKE 1770 NEEDED 1 STUDENT TIX FOR MIAMI GOOD$$ MARK t605 Need 2 GAs or Student tix for Mtaml game. Call John 8362 Need 1-4 GAs for Miam1 game Wftrade student ttc andfor cash. Call Angie 1284 NEED 2 MIAMI GAS CALL STEVE 1796 NEED 4 ARIZONA & 6 PENN ST GAS CALL WOZZAT 1850 FOR SALE 2 MARRIED STUDENT SEASON TIX. CALL t -784-8204 EVENINGS I NEED 2 GAS AND 2 STUDENT TIX FOR ARIZONA CALL JACK-x8876. NEED 1 MIAMI GA FOR LITTLE SIS CALL PAUL 8362 2 MIAMI GA. 35 YD L., Best Offer, CALL 2826, 10:00 PM NEED 2-3 G.A S FOR MIAMI PLEASE CALL TEAl AT 277-1585  FOR SALE MIAMI STU. TIX. DAVE-233­3014 FOR SALE: 2 MIAMI GAS CALL LISA:277-3196:MAKE OFFER Desperate trash MUST Swap BIG brothers 2 MIAMI GAs for Ariz or Penn St GAs Save a Life. call Terry 6714 NEED 6 ARIZ. GAS-DOUG at 6166 NEED 6 GAS FOR MIAMI GAME CALL DON-277-4854 Will pay $60 for 2 M1amt GAs. Call Roberta at 6553 HELP' Mom & Dad STILL NEED 2 M1amt GAs. I'll pay YOUR PRICE just to keep them happy' Call L YN at 2773. RICH parents from Fla. want to see MIAMI game. Need 2 GAs. Call 284· 5050. NEED MIAMI TfX? I have 4 GAs -will trade for Penn St GAs or Stud Tix Call 8125 Will swap M1am1 GAs for 2 M1ami student tics Call Jack 3556 Keep trytng  aHEAD CLUB MEETING IN ROOM 232. MOTELS Happy Belated bfnhday Pam. b VERY IMPORTANT WINDSURFING CLUB MEETING. 7PM THURS LAFORTUNE. All interested are tnv1ted. bring 1 0 bucks Fla. tnp. concess1on stand and general mfo C mon. take a break from studies for a few. and DO IT ON A WINDSURFER! Rtde needed to PITTSBURGH for break SANDY 3818 NEW WAVERS!! PUNKERSII RAS­TAFARIII first on your block to fOtn The Modern Beat for Modern Feet. Signups for this New Musik ExplOSIOn will be on the second floor of Don't miss the notice that you just about missed! The Modern Beat for Modern Feet signups in LaFonune tonight. Be there or be SQUARE. STRANGERS IN THE NIGHT. ex­changtng glances Wondering through the ntght. what were the chances. STRANGERS IN THE NIGHT. ex­changing glances  
TWO KEYS ON IT. MAYBE LOST IN SENIOR BAR. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL FRANCOISAT6818  NEED RIDE one-way from Boslon to NO on Oct.30-31 Gib-6827  SUE 277-3759. PLEASE SELL US 2 GAs FOR MIAMI!  NEED 2 MIAMI GA·s Call Jim at 3342  PERSONALS  Wondenng through the ntght. what were the chances  
LOST LADIES GOLD WATCH ON FRIDAY NIGHT AT GUISEPPE S. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL x4310 SMC LOST· A navy b'ce. ZIP down. ltght weather Jacketwrttl a :;.,.,.ton·label on the collar. I need it badly, ; found please call John at3625 I._._._FO_R_R_EN_r___Jj CABINS FOR RENT • 45 minutes from Notre Dame. 616·424·5817 FURNISHED 5 ROOM APT-3 FRIEND· L Y FEMALES. NEED 4TH. RENT NOW · XMAS. CALL LIZ X4263.  NEED RIDE to OKLA-will share $$ call Bob 8315 NEED RIDE TO NORTH CAROLINA FOR OCTOBER BREAK-Durham or general vicinity Will share usual. Please call Cindy 7954 IL.-_F_o_Rs_A_LE___. WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM. $2995 64K Microcomputer. letter quality prtnter. word process1ng so"ware. CPfM. Basic Call277-7720. two Miamt tics (GA) for sale Best offer by 2:00 on Wednesday. Call Enc at 8686  WILL PAY$$$$! Call Tern at 277-4820 or Nadine at 1302 HELPII need 2 M1amt GAs. Laura 4432 TRADE:! HAVE 4 MIAMI GAs-WILL TRADE FOR 4 ARIZONA GAs CALL x3669 NEED 3 MIAMI GAs CALL RICH AT 277­1650 EVENINGS I NEED MIAMI G A.s!!! DAVE 1773 I need M1am1 t1x 3 stud 2 G.A Please call Joe 8269 Need 1 Mtami Tic AI 1595 HELP!! MIAMI GA's DESPERATELY NEEDED (3) $$$CALL KEVIN at 1580 DESPERATE FOR 2 MIAMI GA TICK­ETS. WILL PAY $$$ CALL MIKE AT 1475  !DESPERATELY NEED GAS FOR THE MIAMI GAME PLEASE CALL BILL AT 8922 I HAVE MIAMI GAs I WANT MIAMI & PENN ST. STUDENT TIX. WILL BUY. SELL. OR TRADE .. CALL ROGER AT 3637 NEED THREE GA TICKETS FOR MIAMI CALL PAT 277-1836. HEY' I NEED THREE GA TICKETS FOR MIAMI $$$$DESPERATE$!!$$ NEED 4 TIX TO MIAMI OR ARIZONA STUD OR GA. CALL THESMCCHICAT5456ANDASK FOR PATTY. EVEN IF YOU ONLY HAVE 1. WILL TRADE 2 MIAMI GAS FOR 2 ARIZONA GAS. CALL GARY 4586  Dear Fl1pper. Have a really. really happy birthday. Remember. only two beers! Love a!wa ys. Fit. Wood. & Col FOR WOMEN ONLY SMCfND WOMEN S PICNIC Oct t 0. 12-3 p m. Potato Creek State Park U.S 31-S to S.R 4, turn W. 4 m1 park on right. $2 per person -payable at ptcmc. ND-contact section leaders by Oct. 6, 6 p m. SMC-stgn in at hall desks by Oct. 6. 6 pm OKTOBERFEST THURS THE 7TH AT SMC Rollerskate on campusU! 3 hrs. $3.50 at Angela 4-7 p m Sound of Mus1c 7 p.m Carrol Hall (also shown Oct 6)  D C. Clubll Sign-ups for the October Break Bus wtll be Sunday. October 10th tn LaFortune Ballroom from 7-9 p m. $75.00 -round-tnp must be pa1d 10 advance. East Coast T atlgater on Greenfield before the M1am1 game!! Be there! HELP WANTED: The Observer IS looktng tor Tuesday and Fnday afternoon dayedttors for the Satnt Marys office Must be available noon to 3 p m. Pnor ex­penance working on a computer termmal IS helpful but not necessary. Interested? Call Margaret at 284-4316 or leave a message at the NO Observer offtce. 239­5303 HAPPY BIRTHDAY KEVIN HAYES!!!!!!!!!!! JOHN-Happy B-day to our favorite fnend from Minnesota~! The two awe­some chicks from 3N  
WANTED: FEMALE ROOMMATE for N.D. Apts thru X-mas. $90fmth. x1813  73 Tnumph TR6. excellent condtt1on $3495 or best offer Call 233-5727.  NEED 2 MIAMI & 2 ARIZONA GAs.$.CALL DAN 239-6264 or 287-7594  NEED 4 MIAMI GAS. CHRIS-1730  Beer Garden!/18-11:30 p.m. Featurmg the No Problem Band. (For under 21: Mustc. food. good company)  Tontght and tomorrow nigh! CADDYSHACK 7.9. and 11 p.m. in the Engtneenng Aud  
TWO APTS in one house for rent: each has LR. KT, BR: front porch: 165f!75 (OR 320 for whole house) & uttlittes: 718 E. Colfax: 234·4620 eventngs.  30 pet DISCOUNT on FUJI FILMS for color slides. FrancoiS 287 2057 2 Mtamt student lixs FOR SALE Call Mark or Mike 234-5414  HELP!! HELP'! HELP!! NEED TWO MIAMI GAS CALL 233-5938 FOR JIM NEED MIAMI and ARIZONA GAS. Call John at 1580.1 need as many as possible  HELP'! DESPERATELY NEED 2 OR 4 ARIZONA GAS. FAMILY WILL SACRIFICE ME IF I DON T GET ANY CALL MATT at 1489 I NEED 1STUDENT TICKET FOR MIAMI FOR MY CRAZY LITTLE SISTER. CALL ANN 1292.  ATTENTION LONG ISLANDERS: SIGN-UPS FOR THE OCTOBER BREAK BUS WILL BE THUSDAY. OCTOBER 7. 7:00. LAFORTUNE LITTLE THEATRE FULL AMOUNT DUE FIRST COME, FIRST SERVED  $1 N-Musik Peoplelll Punkersfll Ras· tafarffll All you National Front and Nat· ty Dreadslll Your club has arrivedll The stgnups for the First New Mus1k Club of Notre Dame will be tonight, Wednes­day the 6th in LaFortune's 20 section .  
The Modern Beat for Modern Feet needs  
.____W_A_N_TE_o___.l\.___TIC_K_E_TS___.  NEEDED: YOUR MIAMI AND PENN ST TIX. BIG TIMEII! CALL 1627 TODAY I NEED UP TO THREE STUD TIX OR  I WILL PAY $50.00 FOR 2 MIAMI GAS. CALL MARY BETH x7956 6 Mtamt Gas for sale Call SMC 4421  Need Miamt GA tix Call Jim BOSTON OCTOBER BUS SIGNUP ts THURS. Oct 7, 7-8p.m. tn LAFORTUNE  you Be there or be square Call Barney Rebel at 8489 or Robbt at 3479 if you need tnfo. Don't you miss lt. Some of you just about missed II.  
GAS TO ARIZONA AND PENN STATE  Round trip is $110  $50 NON REFUND.  
WILL PAY A LOT CALL DAN 1801  HELP I need two. GAs for the ARIZONA  DEPOSIT REQUIRED. BUS leaves ND  The Jumor Class presents a  
RIDE NEEDED TO THE NEW YORK CITY FOR OCTOBER BREAK----WILL LEAVE WHENEVER AND WILL SHARE  need 2 GAs for ARIZONA game. call Lauren (smc) 5072  game. PLEASE call Shen 4431 FEMALE RELATIVES WILLING  TO  on the 22nd and leaves Boston on the 30th Payment tn full encouraged  STRANGERS OF THE NIGHT pany at Gulseppe's Friday, Oct. 8 9 p.m. $4 guys, $3 glr1a Come d"'ssed-$1 off at  
THE USUAL CALL CHRIS AT x351 0 OR x8573 ANYTIME  HEY all you crazy wtld people out there II We need Tickets and wtll pay vou all the  JOHNNY BENCH'S really close frtend needs t or 2 GA s for MIAMI Call Ken at  SLEEP AROUND FOR MIAMI GAS CALL ROBO AT x232-4731 ANYTIME  BOSTON BUS SIGNUP Thurs. Lafortune $50 depostt required  7-8  the door with coatume  
RIDE NEEDED TO WASHINGTON DC-·  money we have tor 2 Penn St GA ·s and 2 Miami GA's Make two really sweet g1rls  8762  Help! 90 yr. old grandma & her father want  EAST COAST TAILGATER IS COMING  EAST COAST TAILGATER ON GREEN­FIELD THIS SATURDAY. ALL D.C.  
FOR OCTOBER BREAK CALL BREN­ an otter. you wont be sorry! call very nch  to party see NO Fball need 2 GA & 1 Stud  SATURDAY  on  GREENFIELD  ALL  CLUB MEMBERS SHOULD BE THERE  
DAN  ANYTIME--WILL  SHARE  THE  c1ndy or much well to do katie at 2948  DESPERATELY  NEED  6  ARIZ  GAS  txs for MIAMI & 2 Stud txs for PENN ST  THOSE  FROM  MASSACHUSETTS  IF THEY WANT TO ABUSE BILL!! ITS  
USUAL---7997  NOW  CALL ROB 6827  CALL MATT at 1581  MUST BE THE REt  WORTH fTI  

T 1e Observer Wednesday, October 6, 1982-page 10 

Don Baylor(left) set a playojfrecordfor RBI's as the Angels took 'he first game of the American League Championship Series in ~naheim last night. (APPboto) 
1-I~A--t t t II I~, ~t?w~£,rl21rir~ 
an ;nterested­come to Wed. 7pm meeting 
in Hayes-Healy Rm. 122 $25 deposit due 


By THERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 

After a thrilling triumph in their 
own Notre Dame Invitational Mon­
day, Coach Noel O'Sullivan's Irish 
golfers have defeated 29 teams in 
two fall tournaments. while losing to 
only two. 

"We won it in great style," ~aid an elated O'Sullivan after the match. "Our players were realiy a unit, especially at the end -each player who finished cheered the next guy on." 
The I.rish were down b~· two 
strokes to Tri-State after the first 
three players finished. However, by 
the time first-seed Frank !.eyes 
recorded his blistering two-under­
par 69. Notre Dame had won the 
title for the tirst time in four years. 
Leyes, a junior. was the tournament 
medalist. 

"Frankie had a beautiful round 
and pulled out the team champion· 
ship for us," O'Sullivan said. 

The varsity squad, the Gold team, finished six strokes ahead of Tri­State. Tri-State had won their divi­sion and were on top of their conference last year with essentially 
Win ND Invitational 

Golfers continue w-inning ways 
. 

the same team. 
"Last year we had a lot of talent. but you don't win without ex­perience," the Irish coach said. "This year is the time to develop -the talent we had last ,·ear is still there, it's just that now we're clicking." 
The coach credits the player's concern S>n how the team tlnishes, not to their individual scores, that gives this year's team an edge over its opponents. This year's golfers shot IS strokes better in the Indiana State Intercollegiate Championships than the team did last year. 
"Last year we had three first-year starters, (Craig Peters. Dave Moor· nun, and Leyes) and we weren't plaving well all of the time, so the team was frustrated. :\:ow these guy~ ha,·e been in a lot more matches. so we now have no trouble getting five solid scores every time." 
The top six seeds for the Irish are seniors Peters and captain Stoney Ferlmann; juniors captain Stoney Ferlmann, juniors Leyes, Moorman, 
Leyes,  Moorman,  and  Dave  
Pangraze,  and  freshman  John  
O'Donovan.  Joe  Celarek,  junior,  

firmly holds the seventh spot. "Stoney is a great leader; he, 
.I 

The 
Management lnfonnation Systems Department of 
MORGAN STANLEY& CO. 
Incorporated 
invites all seniors, of all majors, especially those pursuing honors degrees, 
to a presentation on our Manage1nent Training Program 
Monday, October 11,1982 .4lumni Room Morris Inn 7:00-9:00 P.M. 
We are actively recru.itin,g Fall Graduates; 
Our pro,gra11~ offers the following benefits: 
• 
Interaction with inno1.mtive and exceptionally talented secu1·ities industry professionals. 

• 
A chance to begin a carem· in Data P1~ocessing at one of Wall Street's leading inveshnent banking firms. 

• 
Guaranteed and 'rapid carPeJ' p1·o,gression in a challenging, fast paced enviYonment. 

• 
An outstandin,q compensation progra1n for those who meet the challenge. 


Contact the Career Services Office for additional information. 
Wine and Cheese 
as 

well as all of the other team mem· bers are talented," O'Sullivan said. "'We have the tools needed to be a very good team." 
:'1/ext on the Irish schedule is the Mid-American Invitational, to be played on The Moors Country Club in Kalamazoo.. :\tichigan. this weekend. 
"This will be a good tournament -with the cream of our district competing," O'Sullivan said. "The golf course has an awesome degree of di!ficulty. It has marshes, deep sand traps, and lots of water. There will be about 13 teams there, includ­ing some Big-Ten and .\tid-American 
conference schools. "We're going up there with good Intentions. 
Angels 8, Brewers'3 
AHAHEIM, Calif. ( AP) -Don 
Baylor tied a playoff record by 
driving in five runs, and the Califor­
nia Angels out-slugged the Mil· 
waukee Brewers 8-3last night in the 
opening game of the American 
League championship series. 
The series was billed as a battle of 
two teams with bats of redwood 
proportion, and the Angels won the 
first game by swinging the bigger 
sticks and getting a seven-hitter 
from lefty TommyJohn. 
The second game of the best-of­
five series will be played tonight, 
with Pete Vuckovich, 18-6, 
scheduled to start for :\tilwaukec 
and Bruce Kison, 10-5, getting the 
call for California. 

Brewers' left-bander Mike 
Caldwell sputtered after three in­
nings, finally leaving in the fourth, 
whileJohn just got better. 
Milwaukee held ;,1 .3· I lead after 2 
and a half innings as John yielded a 
second-inning, two-run homer to 
Gorman Thomas. and gave up anoth­
er run in the third. 

However, the Angels got their of­
fense in gear in the bottom of the 
third, scoring four runs, two coming 
on Baylor's two-run triple. 
California, champion of the West, 
took a 1-0 lead in the first on a 
sacrifice tly by Baylor before a 
crowd of 64,406, the largest ever to 
see an American League playoff 
game. 

Brian Downing led off with a 
single and Doug DeCinces then hit a 
grounder back to Caldwell. The 
pitcher's throw to second, however, 
pulled Jim Gantner offthe bag for an error as both ·runners were safe. Downing wound up on third and DeCinces on 1oecond on a wild pitch, and one out later. Baylordrove in his first run with a fly to deep center tield. 
In the .\-tilwaukee second, Ted Simmons led off with a single and Thomas, who shared the major league lead with 59 homers with California's Reggie Jackson, lofted a 
1-0 deliwry from john into the left 
field seats. just barely fair. 
In the third, Milwaukee scored 
again on a fielder's choice grounder 
by Cecil Cooper. 


~~ parties, weddings, etc. 
Cllll••• 


BANDS UNLIMITED 
..........., 
233-5727 
------~---­
-------------~----­
Ihe~er========================================= 



~~4()l~~===========================~==ed=n=e=s=d=a=y,=O==ct=o=b=e=r=6=,=1=98=2====p=a=ge==l=l 
Doonesbury 


Simon 
' I. II : HE.LLO' 
f\6AIK.­
/.I \ '­



Spike's World 
.-------~~-------, 



The Daily Crossword 


UNJ)fJ(fi(PIJUJN~ I UIA5 NERVt115, HMR/5, MY83-8.1J.! 7Ht5CDI!T YEA!<-OW 6fiAifJ-IAIA5 UlllTOi!N6. 
MUT1ItR COUUJ '!WRIIHX£ CA­HAll& H.4IJ THAT R&ER MIS AT 
" 

Jeb Cashin 
l'M 1HROWIN(, AWAR. '5f\All 1 'RtGI~itR YOO 
0~ MY C,U~'JT l\<.,1? 

T.]. Wrobel 
YEA • You D FI6V~E 
THAT -\VST OIJG£ THEY COUL-P f'LAY SOrv1ITHIAI& 
A LITTLE 13 IT fAST, 
... c-o IN Pt::t\CE .•. ovR ~ (.LOS(}.!& HY/1/V \./ILL (3[:. S, NUt'lroER., ~I, "TAI<l~' i1 "1 To TH£ ST~fETs." 
ACROSS 33 Approxi· 1 CPA's abbr. mately 5 Disorder 35 Norman the 9 Brainy author 
14 Git! 37 "0 Sole-" 15 Actress 38 "Norma-" Raines 39 Pasture 
16 German land composer 40 Scotsman 17 Ordinary 41 Osprey's 
person relative 19 Foe 42 Bulbs 20 Firing 43 Common 
line call people 21 Commonplace 44 ODE's 23 Supervisor opponent 25 Floral 45 Twins' 
leaves home: abbr. 29 Serbian 46 One: Ger. 
city 47 Fantasies 30 -majesty 49 Seized 32 Scrap illegally
Tuesday's Solution 

10/6/82 




Campus 

•1 
p.m.-3 p.m.-Autograph Party, Sister Karol Jackowski, Bookstore Lobby, Sponsored by SMC 

• 
3 p.m. -Lecture, "Solid·liquid Phase Change Heat Transfer", Prof. Raymond Viskanta, Purdue University, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall ofEngineering 


•4 
p.m. -Music Dept. Colloquium, "The Four­teen Preludes for Organ", ProfCraig Cramer, Notre Dame, 204 Crowley Hall 

•4:30 
p.m. -Microbiology Seminar, "New Aspects of the Mechanism of Action of Alkylating Anti-Tumor-Agents", Dr. H. Grunicke, Innsbruck, Austria, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•4:30 
p.m. -Amnesty International Meeting, International Student's Lounge, LaFortune Student Center 

•6:30 
p.m. -Circle K. Meeting, Flanner Com­moner 

•6:45 
p.m. -Rosary Devotions, Grotto 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "Sound of Music", Carroll Hall, Sponsored by SAPB, S 1.00 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "Caddyshack", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Junior Class, Sl.OO 

•7:30 
p.m. -French Lecture, "Impressions From France", Sister Marie Louise Gude, C.S.C, SMC Clubhouse, Sponsored by Alliance Francaise ofSouth Bend and SMC Depr. ofModern Language, Open to the public 

•7:30 
p.m. -Sailing and Seamanship Course, Madeleva Hall, Room 351, SMC, Sponsored by U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary, 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, Mark Manula, Library Lounge, Sponsored by Fellowship of Christian Athletes Forum 


•8: 
15 p.m. -Lecture, "The Family: Womb of Society", Fr. Edward O'Connor CS.C, 115 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by Thomas More 


4 Common man, 48 -the hole 
!~·••:•• •11••••l ......._, •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
• nror Llar r-teeo a • ··· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · '-() :
17 

~ ~ • mid-week.bteak? 5il.~A~~~!).~ tflq~ . : : Jo1n us ~t Sen•otBat: is £t)rni11,. tt) ~-~ i :evety Wed. Nc~e f~ f : Sf)utli 13f?llcll • =stft fting Qt9•30 ~,_;.,~ ·--:-: DOnlmisstheticketlottery! : 
: "' _ -• ~-~,-~ e october 7 ?:30pm. : 
. ~ _ _--==-. \ 1n the Nazz
.......•....................................................... 
0 ­
Society ofND 


T.V. Tonight 
6p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 The MacNeil/lehrer Report 6:30p.m. 16 M*A*S*H* 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 
7p.m. 16 Real People 
22 Seven Brides for Seven Brothers 
28 Baseball Championship Series 
34 Previn and the Pittsburgh 8p.m. 16 Facts ofUfe 
22 Alice 
34 The Case ofDashiell Hammett 8:30p.m. 16 Family Ties 
22 Filthy Rich 9p.m. 16 Quincy 22 Tucker's Witch 34 Specia: "The Killing ofSadat" 
10p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 The Dick Cavett Show 
10:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Archie  Bunker's  Place/CBS  
Movie  

28 ABC News Nightline 34 Captioned ABC News 
llp.m. 28 love Boat 
11:30p.m. 16 late Night with David Letterman 53 Non·noble 56 -·tzu 57 Paris's 
prize 60 Most frequent 62 Tono­(useless) 63 Arrow poison 64 Husband 
or wife 65 Brownish 66 Cisterns 67 Red letters 
DOWN 1 Tin Pan Alley grp. 
2 Singing group 3 Paine's 
pamphlet 

22 Henrik and family 24 Former labororg. 26 Kind of 
court 27 Court case 28 Commonor 
preferred 
30 Dancer, Jose 31 N.C.col· 
lege 33 Nymph 34 More 
uncommon 35 Doctrine 
of a kind 36 ldi­39 Ordinarily 43 Evergreen 46 Continental 
prefix 
., 
one of a trio 5 Edison's 
-Park 6 --: Fudd 7 Flagstone 8 Of sound 
mind 9 Thosewho 
take oaths 10 Reddish dye 11 Vigoda 12 Ad-(per· 
tinent) 13 Snoop 18 Chooses 

49 Not yet answered 
50 Starry patterns, in heraldry 
51 Bridge 
positions 52 Loving one 54 1104 55 A Chaplin 57 Chapeau 58 A Gabor 59 England's 
common­61 Seamen's org. 
late 

Wednesday, October 6, 1982 -page 12

S~orts 
Miami game will 
The Notre Damefield hockey team notched an­other win yesterday, aminly on the strength ofa Kathy Ray hat trick. The Irish have a tough match 
an a game which 

potlight defenses Sports Writer  
Items  
GOLD FEVER -Saturday the Irish host a 4-I ~tiami team whose only loss was to highly ranked Florida in their opening game. It will be Notre Dame's 47th straight home capacity crowd. The game pits two ofthe country's best defensive teams. The Hurricanes rank 20th in scoring defense ( I3.0 points-per-game), while the Irish are rated 14th allowing just I I. 3 points per game. WE SHOULD HAVE BEEN AT THE BEACH-In the last meeting between the Hurricanes and the Irish, Notre Dame suffered embarassing 3 7-I 5 defeat on national television -closed out the 198I season for both teams. Miami led 30-6 at the half, as quarterbackJim Kelly picked the Irish secondary to pieces, throw­ing for 238 yards before intermission. Notre Dame's offense was vir­tually non-existent, as the only touchdowns scored by the Irish were on Greg Bell's 98-yard kickoff return and Dave Duerson's 88-yard interception runback. TURNING THE TABLES-The last time Miami came to town was in I 980. The Hurricanes arrived with the No. country against the rush, but they left town considerably lower on the list. Jim Stone rushed for 224 yards, almost quadrupling the over­land yardage given up by a stingy Hurricane defense prior to the game, as the Irish went on to a 32-I4 victory. This year it is the Irish defense that is No. 1 against the run ­No. 3 in total defense. A powerful Miami offense threatens to change those rankings, however, despite the loss of All-America candidate Jim Kelly to an injury in their second game of the season. Kelly is replaced by senior quarterback Mark Richt, who in his last three starts has completed 40 passes for 395 yards, two touchdowns, and three straight wins. Using a pro-style passing attack, the Hur­ricanes have averaged almost 200 yards a game passing -receivers having better than I 0 catches on the season. BIG PLAYS DOWN THE UNE -defense has been so successful this season is the play ofthe defensive line. The "Gold Rush" is led by senior Kevin Griffith, with four sacks for 30 yards lost and 2 additional tackles for losses ­Mike Gann, also with four sacks for 28 yards-lost. Senior Bob Clasby has added three more sacks, as the defense has combined for 16 sacks in three games with ­12 other stops for negative yardage. Also improving were the number of interceptions. After picking off just one (that's right, one) pass in two games responded to the MSU passing challenge by stealing four passes. But perhaps the most impressive defensive stat for the Irish is that in 42 attempts the Notre Dame defense has forced the opposition to sur­render the football without a first down 25 times. Sophomore linebacker Mike Larkin, last week's AP Defensive Player of the Week, leads all Irish tacklers with 34. He has been the leading tackler in each of Notre Dame's games thus far. BACKS TO (THRU) THE WALL-The Notre Dame offense, while admittedly needing more consistency, has been forced to start from poor field position on better than one-half of their possessions, 27­46. Tailback Phil Carter pounded his way into both the team lead in rushing and sixth place on the career-rushing charts with his 101 yard game last Saturday. He now stands at per-game rushing average -20th. THE SERIES ­Notre Dame holds a series advantage over the Hur­ricanes of I2-2-l. Miami broke an 1I game Irish winning streak in last year's debacle. The only other Irish loss was in I960. In a game played at the Orange Bowl in 1966, the two teams played to a score­less tie. Miami's victory over Louisville last Saturday was the 300th win for the Miami program. The Hurrricanes have now won I 0 of their last II games, I9 of their last 2I, and their last nine against indepen­dents. WANTED-BETTER PICKS-As many of you have been telling me these past three weeks, I have not been doing well in the The Observer's Sport's Staffs predictions. Some (most l of you feel that  
vou can do better, so here's what I'm willing to do. The games we pick are printed in Tuesday's Chicago Tribune. pick your games against the ~pn:ad, and send them to me at P.O. Box 1.,1. Iwill tabulate the results and make my picks accordingly. then when I continue to do poorh· I'll have someone else to blame. \laybe th1s can kn:p me out of"The Bottom Ten" for a few more weeks.  

Irish top Goshen 
Ray's hat trick sparks Irish 
By TOM ANTONINI goal off a corner shot by Claire put the Irish up by two. Goshen, Sports Writer Henry at the 28-minute mark. however, continued to play tough Although leading 2-1, the Irish and cut the lead to 3-2 after a penalty 
Notre Dame raised its record to 9-played sluggishly in the first half. shot. 2 after topping Goshen College in They appeared to be the better team 
Finally, with only seven minutesField Hockey yesterday at Alumni but couldn't quite put Goshen away. 
left to play, Notre Dame iced the vic-
Field. The Irish won 5-2 behind "This happens to us every year," three goals by Kathy Ray. Goshen explained Irish Coach Jan Bishop. tory on Ray's third goal of the game. dropped to 2-2-I but gave Notre "We start to go into a slump. I think She now has I 7 goals on the season Dame a good battle before faltering it's tests -tiredness. It gets to be a for the Irish. late in the game. drag to come out here. You could 
Karen Korowicki added anotherThe Irish offense controlled most tell that in the first half. I think we're goal for good measure at the 33of the first half and scored on Ray's going to break through though. In 
minute mark, completing Notre
first goal at the 13-minute mark. Gos­the second halfwe started to play to­Dame's 5-2 victory. 
hen tied it up 10 minutes later, gether. sneaking in a goal past Notre Dame's Notre Dame did indeed dominate The Irish will play a tough away jeanne Grasso and Debbie Roehl. in the second half. Kathy Ray again game against Northwestern today at The Irish again went up, 2-1, on a scored 10 minutes into the half to 3:30-as they seek their lOth win. 
Fischerhurt 


Injuries force line changes 
I defense in the 
and 
with four 
One big reason that the Irish and sophomore 
the defense 
13th in the country in with fullback Larry Moriarty falling to 
By CHRIS NEEDLES 
Sports Editor 

With the loss of center Ma£k Fis­cher for about four weeks with a knee injury, Coach Gerry Faust once again has 'r...:f',, forccJ l:o-)Liggle his starting lineup. 
Faust has chosen to move All­America-candidate guard Tom Thayer into Fischer's center spot, and tabbed junior Neil Maune as Thayer's temporary replacement at the strong guard position. 
Speaking at his weekly press con­
ference yesterday at the ACC, Faust 
expressed his regret at fischer's in­
jury, but was confident that Thayer 
could step right in immediately 
without difficulty. 

"Thayer played there during the spring (when Fischer contracted mononucleosis)," said Faust, "so he knows how to play the position. Tom Doerger (who replaced Fis­cher last Saturday) played well, but he's only a freshman and he didn't practice at all last year because ofan injury. 
"Thayer's a three-year starter, and at this point of the season we want experienced players in our lineup." 
Maune. a 6-S, 258-pounder from Marthasville, Mo., was originally recruited as a defensive lineman, but was switched to offensive guard during the spring of 1981. He was granted an extra year ofeligibilitY at: ter missing most of the 19...,9 season and all of I980 with a shoulder in­jury. 
Fischer. meanwhile, underwent arthroscopic knee surgery Monday 
but it's good that the injury was not 
to clean out the partial ligament tear 
as bact as ori~>nally thought." 

he suffered in the third quarter of 
In other injury-related news,
Saturday's I 1-3 victory at Michigan 
junior Tim Mushall, who has not
State. Faust said that he originally 
played ;. down th•s year because ofa
had been told that Fischer would be 
foot injury, has had that foot placed
lost for the entire season. But that prognosis has been revised to just 
in a cast for three weeks. Doctors 
four weeks, which may mean that 
have been unable to locate any
Fischrr would be back in time for 
break in the foot, but Marshall still 
the back-to-back s)10wdowns with Pitt and Penn State in November. has bet-n unable to put any pressure "That was good news," said Faust. on it s:nce injuring it in pre-season "I mean, it's a shame he got injured, workouts. 

J1ark Fischer's injury means a cbange in the Irisb lineup tbis week. (Photo hi' Rachel BlountJ 
-a ­





