, , , Women at ND -page 5 

VOL. XVI, NO. 133 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 1982
the indepcndenl ~llltknl IKw~paper st·n·ing notn: dame and ~aim mary's 
Palestinians suffer too Hussaini argues 
By SONY A STINSON Hussaini scoffed at the claim Staff Reporter of some Israelis that God gave them the right to the land, "as The only alternatives for if God is a real estate dealer." Mideast peace are peaceful Charging that the West has coexistence of Jews and Arabs a "guilty conscience" concern­in a' 'secular democratic state'' ing Jews because of Nazi or the establishment of an persecution during World War independent Palestinian state, II, Hussaini claimed that those said Palestinian Information who argue for the freedom of Office Director Hatem Hus­Jews from persecution and for saini, in a lecture in the Library their right to exist peacefully Auditorium last night. should recognize the same 
''The Palestinian people are right for the Palestinians. victims," Hussaini declared. Hussaini felt that the U.S. ''They have been destroyed as should not be afraid to criticize a nation. They can neither Israel and take a stand against issue a birth certificate for a Israeli acts of terrorism. child when he is born nor bury ''There is a difference between him when he has died.'' criticizing the state of Israel 
Hussaini said that Amer­and being anti-Semitic,'' he icans have a distorted and stated. He denied that the PLO 
clothing, search the honzon as the Bn"tish stereotypical view of the Pales­actions are also those of terror­tinians as an evil group. "The ism, saying their fight is a Palestinians must overcome "struggle for freedom." 
HPCnews 
this stereotyping and inform the American people so that they can develol? a more even­


Perruccio fund collects over $3000 
handed policy m the Middle East," he stated. 
universities across the country alcohol abuse. The survey will
By Roger Wilke Hussaini charged that Zion­
and will help compare Notre inquire about the personal
News Staff ists have persecuted the Pales­
Dame social life to that of other drinking habits of the students tinians and driven them out of campuses. The surveys should and their thoughts on the their homeland. ''The Pales­be turned in to the library or drinking habits of the students tinians have suffered from Over $3000 was collected sent through on-campus mail around them. The survey is Zionism. The Zionist move­across the campus for the Tom by Friday, April 23. meant to help Psychological ment did not come to Palestine 
Perruccio fund which will help Also in the meeting, Tim Services, the administration, in peace," said Hussaini. In­the Perruccio family defray Salzler asked the council to help and the students have a more stead, he explained, the move­medical costs, the Hall conduct a survey evaluating complete understanding of ment used military force to Presidents' Council announced Notre Dame's attitude toward alcohol use on campus. take over Palestinian lands. 
last night. Over $1700 was collected for the fund during hall masses on Sunday. ElSalvador 
In other HPC News, Don Murday, former Student Senate president, handed out question­

Hesburgh continues to outline journey 
naires for the HPC to distribute as a part of a project to evaluate Editor's note: The following Rolando Duarte, the brother of advisor to the Bishops on all more at home riding in an 
the social life at Notre Dame. is the third of a series of the President, and Armando international affairs, cable armored car with a white jeepAccording to Murday, 300 excerpts taken from the diary Palomo and Ernesto Sol, whom Bishop Damas to tell him l was out ahead riding shotgun. We questionnaires are being of University President Theo­I mentioned yesterday. Later, coming and to expect to hear arrived at the airport and while passsed out to a random samp-dore Hesburgh dun·ng his re­as the Mariachi band started from me. When I arrived here, I there, I managed to get the ling of students, faculty and cent trip to EISalvador as part up, we were joined by the found out that he was at a whole story of the three sisters 
of the United States official President of the Junta and my
administration personnel. meeting of Caritas and one lay religious worker The surveys will be sent to observer team for the Salva­former student, Napoleon lnternacionalis. I also learned murdered here. It's a very
doran elections. Duarte. I must say that all of
the University of South Carolina that he was returning to gruesome story and one that I
the eyebrows were raised as he
for professional evaluation. Saturday, March 27 Salvador this afternoon around Murday says the questionnaire We went back to the hotel walked into the room and gave 2:30 from Costa Rica and would WEDNESDAYIIB 
me a big hug. As usual, he had 
is a standardized type distri­where we had a real Notre only be in town a few minutes 
his own guard, a captain in the 
buted through colleges and Dame lunch. We began with before leaving for his Diocese of 
Army, who was staying very de Maria, which iM:ir~J1,1wF 0 C U5
Santiago is 
close to him, also hand on butt 
about fifty miles from here. It 
of gun. It was also interesting to 
seemed to me that the best time 
note that while most of these do not care to repeat in this
to meet him was to catch him at alumni have varied political the airport so that we could talk diary. The five men accused of
Flaherty's speech ends 
views, they are, as Notre Dame from the airport back to town perpetrating it are now in jail men, very close to each othe which is a good hour's drive. I and on trial; the odds are that if 
Wotnen sLectures 
and very cordial with each also had the good fortune of convicted, they will get life other. Somehow when we all sit finding him in the company of imprisonment. It was a difficult Sr. Helen Flaherty, President only woman member of the down together, the political Monsignor Freddy Delgado and matter to bring them to court of the Sisters of Charity of National Evaluation Team for differences seem to fade away. Bishop Maro Rivelo, Bishop of because Spanish law requires a Cincinnati will present a speech Jesuit Theologates in the U.S. That's nice to see, and not the western Diocese of Santa witness, and it was a long time "The Person As a Woman: A 1979. has also unlike the nature of a university before a witness was willing to
in Flaherty Ana who is the candidate of the 
Christian Perspective,'' tonight organized various major where people can disagree more conservative Bishops here testify. at 8 p.m. in the Library Audit­retreats and is presently a without being disagreeable. to be the new Archbishop of The plane arrived from Costa orium. member of four religious Following lunch, I take off for San Salvador. (I would believe Rica, and I was able to greet 
Flaherty will speak as the boards. the airport where I am meeting that the people on the liberal Bishop Rivera y Damas, Bishop final lecturer in Notre Dame's Sr. John Miriam Jones, coor­San Salvador's Acting side would rather have Bishop Rivelo, and Monsignor ''Distinguished American dinator of the lecture series, Archbishop, Bishop Rivera y Rivera y Damas, but it is up to Delgado. They had a car Women" series, celebrating 10 said "Helen Flaherty will fit­Damas, appointed when the Rome to decide and they waiting for the, but we put all of years of coeducation at the tingly close this 'Distinguished former Archbishop Romero was haven't done so, even though the bags in their car, and they 
University. American Women' series, murdered while offering Mass more than two years have climbed into our armored 
Flaherty spoke at the Nation­which has provided such excell­in a small chapel. It was passed since the martyrdom of vehicle so that we could have a al Meeting of Vicats in Rome in ent exposure to remarkable obviously a professional job, Archbishop Romero.) conversation between the 1978. She also acted as regional women. Both her presence and apparently planned by the It was interesting gomg airport and the city. I knew that 
chairperson for the National what she has to say will be no Right. ~efore coming down downhill to the airport, along the Bishop was going to leave Leadership Conference of exception. She is her own best here, I had Bryan Hehir of the the same road we took when 
See HESBURGH, page 4

Women Religious and was the message.'' U.S. Catholic Conference, the arriving. By now, I'm a little 

Naval Task Force sails to the Falkland Islands. [AP Photo] 



By The Observer and The AssociatedPress 
A HIGHWAY INSPECTOR who was injured when an east Chicago bridge ramp under construction collapsed last week filed a $15 million damage suit Tuesday. The unfinished bridge on the Cline A venue Extension project in East Chicago collapsed last Thursday, killing 12 men and injuring 17 others. Frederick Torrijas, 22., of Michigan City entered the suit in Cook County (Ill.) Circuit Court and named as defendants Midwest Steel Erection Co. Inc. of Chicago, Superior Construction Co. Inc. of Gary, Ind., and Figg and Nuller Engineers Inc. of Tallahassee, Fla. The suit accuses them of negligence and willful and wanton misconduct, and it claims the improperly and inadequately installed and maintained the support scaffolding for the bridge. Workers were injured when three sections of the bridge ramp collapsed as they poured concrete into a pier, Witnesses said the bridge started swaying and creaking shortly before the first section fell. The cause of the collapse is being investigated by several agencies in Indiana. (AP) 
AUTHORITIES HAVE A ''Prime suspect'' in the Rooftop Murders of three CBS employees, but he is not the man being held in Kentucky and believed to own a van linked to the slayings, District Attorney Robert Morgenthau said yesterday. Morgenthau was the first law enforcement official to reveal the existence of a particular suspect in the murders, but he would not identify the man. Morgenthau said Donald Nash of Keansburg, N.J., also known as Donald Bowers, appears to own a van that was sighted at the abduction of a woman from a rooftop parking lot on a Hudson Rivers pier in Manhattan. The three CBS employees who tried to help her were killed by a guwnan, and the woman -a witness in a federal fraud investigation -was later found dead. Police descriptions of Nash do not fit those of the gunman. A prosecutor from Morgenthau's <9ffice and police detectives flew to Kentucky yesterday to talk to Nash, who agreed to return to New York to face a charge that he fled sentencing on a taxicab license forgery conviction. (AP) 
AUTHORS JOHN UPDIKE and Tracy Kidder won the 1982 American Book Awards for the same works which earned them Pulitzer Prize Awards last week, announced Book Award Chairman Thomas Guinzburg. Updike won the book award in the hardcover fiction category for "Rabbit is Rich." This award-winning book continues the adventures of Rabbit Angstrom, the hero of Updike's "Rabbit, Run" and ','Rabbit Redux." Tracy Kidder won the award in hardcover General Nonfiction with ''The Soul of a New Machine." This book is a story about people who build computers. (AP) 
REAGAN'S STATEMENT on the budget negotiations was· his most conciliatory to date and marked the first time that he took care to limit his hard line against tax increases to those affecting the three-year program. "I have always stressed that what I am talking about is that tax programs are designed to provide incentives,'' Reagan said when asked whether he was opposed to any tax increase. Budget negotiators are discussing tax increas~s that would in~lude a four percent income surcharge levied on upper mcome taxpayers and possible levies on oil and energy usage. (AP) 
PRIME MINISTER MARGARET THATCHER today rejected an Argentine plan for averting war with Britain over the Falkland Islands. She told the House of Commons that "the Argentine proposal falls short in many impo~ant aspects:• _of what Britain would deem an acceptable solunon to the cnslS. She did not disclose details of the Argentine plan. Although Thatcher effectively rejected the proposals presente~, ~he said that Britain considered it ''a stage in the negonatmg process which must now be continued. We are examining the propositions very closely.'' (AP) 
IlTERARY CONTEST winners were announced April 19 and the prizes in each category will be awarded on April 27 at 7:30 p.m. in 331 O'Shaugnessy. The winner of the Samuel Hazo Poetry Award was sophomore David Germano. Other poetry award winners were first place Carol Losi, senior, and Honorable Mention, Laura Martin, sophomore, of the Ernest Sandeed Poetry Award; and Elizabeth Barlage, senior, who won the Academy of American Poets Prize. First place for the Richard T. Sullivan Award for fiction went to junior John Burbridge and honorable mentions went to seniors Sean F. Faircloth and Anne N. Barsanti. The John T. Frederick Prize m English went to junior Philip Fowler. --The Observ.er 
WEA1HER will be clear and cold today with a high of 
43. Tomorrow, sunny and warmer with a high of 55.--The Observer 
Wednesday, April 21 , 1982 -page 2 


Count your blessings 
As graduanon draws near for most college seniors, it's not a bad time for us soon-to-be­alumni to stop and evaluate the adversity we have had to deal with over the last four years, and, more specifically, the last nine months. 
It is easy for many of us to moan over the various complications that have touched our college days. The problems are many: 
"I've been accepted by three grad schools, but I still haven't heard from Harvard." ''Should I go to grad school or take a job in the real world?'' ''Should I get married now, or wait until she has her degree?" 
Or more seriously: 
"I'm close to flunking Art Trads. I may not graduate. Mom will die.'' "Fourteen rejections!!! What am I going to do with my life?" 

Many May graduates at present are f3:cing similar crises. But to paraphrase an old cliche, no ·matter how bad off you think you are, someone else has it worse. 
Consider the case of a student trying to keep his or her mind on school·while mother or father or some other loved one is losing a battle with some terminal illness. These days it seems like everyone either is in that situation or is close to someone who is. It's an emotional and even physical drain that has taken its toll on dozens of memoers of this community. 
Consider this scenario. A summer school student receives a call from home -some 600 miles away. Mom has cancer. A million thoughts run through his head at one time. One thing's for certain. He wants to drop everything and go home. A friend offers his car (it's at tinies like that real friends make their presence known) and he's off. 
After driving through the night, Mom greets him at the door with a hug. "You're an impulsive little son of a bitch, but I love you for it.• ' 
After her surgery, the chemotherapy begins ­and so does her biweekly torture. Half a country away, all he can do is worry ... and work toward graduating. 
The first semester comes and goes. After his last final, it's time to relax, enjoy a cold beer and a good night's sleep and wait for the ride home in the morning. The phone rings. It's his sister. 

Desigr~ &iilor Deirdre Murphy Desigr~ Assislar~l .Joe Flowers News Editor Michele Dietz Copy &iilors Maureen O'Toole 
Diane "Drug Bear" Dickers Supplemet~l Layout Tim Neely Sports Copy Eriilor Dzave Dziedzic Typists Tari Brown 
Bruce "MyJob" Oakley 
Proofreader See Design Editor 
ND Day &litor Joe Musumeci 
SMC Day Eriitor Julia Trimarchi 
Photogn~pher Jill Origer 
G.est Appe~~ratt~Us 
Killer Molinelli · CompuWricer,)c. 
"For all I've created returns 
unto me" 
The ~ (USPS 598 920j IS p!lbhshed Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacattan penods. The ObMrwr IS publiShed by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Mary s Col­lege. Subscnpt10ns may be purchased tor $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntmg The Qbeerwr. p 0 Box a. Notre Oame.lndlana46556 
The Ob8erwr IS a member of TM 
A8.ot:l*d PNa All reproductiOn 
ngh!s are reserved 
Second class postage pa.d at Notre 
Oame.lndlana46556 


9miles from 
THE1982 WORLD'S FAIRN 
MAY·oc:roBER.19112 KNOXVIUE.TBIINESSEE USA 

CALL TOLL FREE 
, _______ 8 30 AM-10 PM.-------...._ 
1·800·251·5009 
In Tennessee colt 1-615-693-1712 
EUROPEAN TYPE HOSTEL seoarofeQuartersmoJeonalemoie• . :l', ..... u·a ser\fiCe•:: ..;.r1•rtt.···· J oreakfast OVOIIOO!e•Personallocxers•24nr 
160 BEDS ,.!..,p.e free oar.. ··~· OiJvenJr & !;Jiff snop•2·tlerOunk oeo a·•:J>"~gemems• ~et•esnrr-e•: ce1ter •:.Ounge•Co,n Laundry • ComP'ete rest ':)iJ""lS ana snowers • .,;ol""l.:. • . =··" 
1·75SOUTHf1~40WEST •. --=­
PAPERIVLL ROAD !eXIT 383. KNOXVII.LE 
SPECIAL GROUPS WELCOI'v1E. FAIR TICKETS Al\0 SHUTTLE BUS AVALABLE. 
-~---­
.uiHDID IIOIHI 
WRITE P 0. BOX 22880. KNOXVILLE. TN. 37922 

Mom's in the hospital with a-dangerous blood clot in her lung. "She's been there a couple of days, but we didn't want to worry you." 
At least the first semester is over, and unique Christmas season lies ahead. Mom's OK for now, and his three sisters are closer to home to do what needs to be done. But he's still a semester from graduation. 
She goes and comes to and from the doctor's office every couple of weeks. His student billing number gets rigorous workout. Things are going about as well as can be hoped, and the most pressing question becomes: "Will she be able to make it to graduation?'' 
As the big weekend approaches, all systems are go. The special arrangements that need to be made (a campus pass for the car, wheel chair, etc.) are well worth it. She's going to see her youngest graduate (as long as he lives up to his half of the. bargain). And although it may be hard for some to see, this family was awfully lucky. 
Consider another student whose father has been ill for what seems forever. No one seems to be able to put their finger on exactly what the problem is. All he knows is that Dad is sick -real sick. 
His situation is more urgent throughout the school year. Almost every weekend and many class days are spent at home or at the hospital, keeping Dad company and providing Mom with vital support. You see, he's an only child. 
In these situations, friends try to help ease the trouble. Most are quick to explain a similar situation to which they. have been exposed. It's well-intended and appreciated, but he still needs time to sort things out. 
Why her? 
Why him? 
Why me? 
Just a month from graduation, his condition worsens. The final trip home is the longest one­the one he knew would come but had prayed would not. 
Some hope that death will call them quickly. "It'll be easier on everyone," they say. People who have suffered a sudden family tragedy may argue that point. But they share a common ground of adversity. 
When your name is called on that wonderful Sunday in May, hug those people who helped you along the way -parents especially. Appreciate what you have and the relative ease with which you achieved it. People tell us this all the time, but it's tough to appreciate any of this, until it's gone. 

The 0 bserver Wednesday, April 21, 1982 -page 3 

· j' :' ' •.alA LUCERO 
. ·, porter 
;.•..n: is the political will in this 
Jntry and abroad...it should be 

possible to overcome the worse 
aspects of widespread hunger and 
malnutrition within one genera­
tion." So concludes a 1977 report by 
the National Academy of Sciences, 
which conducted a two year 
research on the worldwide hunger 
issue. 
Randy andjanis Marti~, a husband 
and wife team from Elkhart IN 
elaborated on this study durin~ th~ 
Ending Hunger Briefing, a• seminar 
presented by the Hunger Project 
Volunteers organation from Elkhart. 
The six-hour long workshop, con­
ducted yesterday afternoon at Mor­
reau Seminary, featured an overview 
of the world hunger situation, along 
with historical highlights, statistical 
data, measurements regarding 
population and hunger, and possible 
solutions to the growing dllemna. 
Distinguishing between four 

forms of hunger and how they are 
manifested, the Martins discussed 
~tandards by which hunger is 
-lcasured on the individual and 
~ucletal level. "When you can 
mcas..tre hunger, you can do some­
.hing about it," Martin states. Es­
timates showing the extent of 
undernutrition among populations 
reveal a startling 450 million to one 
billion people who go hungry. Every year alone, 15-20 million people die a.'i a result of hunger. Ninety percent of these die from hunger, while ten percent or fewer die from starvation (starvation is defined as hunger as­sociated with famine). 
More devastating is the fact that deaths due to hunger In the past five years far exceed the death toll resulting from wars, revolutions, and murders within the last 150 years. The number ofchildren dying as a result of hunger and starvation every three days equals the total number killed in the atomic bomb destruction of Hiroshima. 
These society-wide statistics were based on the Infant Mortality Rate (IMR), a measure of the number of deaths of infants one year of age or less per 1000 live births in a given year. The IMR is used with the ramification that a properly nourished infant will survive during· its first year. Although other causes are accountable for these infant ~ea.ths, the l~R is the most accurate md1cator available to measure world hunger. Countries whi.ch had an IMR to":"'e.r that 55 are cons1der~d ~o ha~e 
1
e 1mmated hunger as a bas1c 1ssue m that country. Among the countries that have and have not eliminated hunger.. the IMRs compared are, respecuvelr, 3 7 to 125. . 
The Ending Hunger Bnefing also 
aldh h .. fh 
reve ~ t at t e maJonty 0 t e 
world shun~, o~er rod~ercenbct, are 10 t
c.oncentrat~ e n Ian su on­tm.ent, Africa, East and Southeast Asia, the Middle East, Latin America, 

d th . . a~ . e Caribbean regiOn. _ W1th an IMR of 13, the United State~ doe~ not ~ategorize hunger as a basic nauonal tssue. Yet, hunger is c?~ned to particulargroups and in­dtv1duals such as the American In­dians on reservations, the elderly, some Black communities, and migrant farm workers. Food programs.... such as food stamps and free meal plans in schools, have dramatically alleviated the hunger problem in the United States within the last 15 years. The hungry most often find them­selves in circumstances of poverty, though low income Is not necessari­ly the cause ofthe hunger situation. For example, Sri Lanka is classified as a poor country, but is considered _ 
(according to its IMR of42) a nation that lias eliminated hunger as a basic issue. Even with a good IMR, the statistics only reveal what the vast majority, is doing. 
Three quarters of the hungry live and work in rural areas, where they are landless laborers or tenant far­mers. Those who own land often do not have necessary access to credit and technical support to be productive. The other 25 percent ol the hungry population dwell in ur­ban slums, ghettos, and shan­tytowns. 
For people in 50 countries, with a population ofover one million, hun­ger has ended (as a basic issue) according to a variety of methods relating to differences in climate, economic systems, poHtlcal sys­tems, and agricultural techniques. As Martin says, "There is no one way to end hunger." 
To end hunger on this planet, an estimated S25 billion per year, for 20 years, is needed. This accounts : for only 25 percent of the Gross + Planetary Product (about $10.5 bil-+ lion) which is Jess than $6 per _ + son ~er year in the world. For !7~ + billion, children deaths due to hun-: ger could be prevented, according + 

to UNICEF. Costs to allow the hun­ger situation to prevail include: $3­billion a year in international food aid, $12 billion a year in US food stamps over S20 b·u· i ti d 
, llonnoo 

stamps outside the US, and $1 billion 
to support hungry refugees. 
Non-quantifiable costs include medical expenses, nutrition feeding programs plus an h 1 · · 
, overw e mmg m-flux of people from rural to urban areas for employment purposes. In summary, elimination of hunger would be comparitively Jess to finance than to allow to persist. 

SaintMary's installs fire hydrants 
In an effon to improve the ftre prevention system of Saint Mary's College, ftre hydrants are being installed outside of Madeleva Hall. 
The hydrants are being placed by the southeast and nonhwest corners of the build· 




-fe. Leflee 1982. 1983 Cufltlftti Alll6 A~ ~lea 

~Olle(tebcg ~­
'Fiddoy, Ap~Uil6 ..,tucfil Fraiday. Ap~Ui23 CutepitkUfJ yehtt
"*"..ia lice S&ulact llMiM ~ 


BEER GARDEN 
ing. ''This is just a general upgrade of the ftre t>revention program,'' said Dttector of Public Relations .Anne Reed. 
Dr. Zing to appear Friday • 
Chautauqua officials have announced that Dr. Zing and the Mojo Handlers will appear Friday evening at Chautauqua. The An Tostal schedule booklet 
Give yourself credit for an exciting summer this year at 
incorrectly lists the concen in 
Northwestern University. Earn credits in courses from
today' s festivities. 
introductory to advanced -from pre med to the 

performing arts. You can even earn a full years' credit in just 8 weeks this summer in one of our intensive foreign language, mathematics or science programs. 
And while you're catching up or getting ahead, you can explore the big city sights of Chicago. It's just minutes away. Or sail and windsurf right off our lakefront campus. Start planning for summer now. Write or call for your free course bulletin. And begin taking credit for a great summer today. 
Contact: Summer Session • 2003 Sheridan Road 
Evanston, Illinois 60201 • (312) 492-5250 Outside of Illinois, call Toll-Free during normal business hours, Monday-Friday. 
1-800-323-1225 



obi~enesis

c:J--.dQnUZ. CO ,,.,._c:AIV"" 
continued from page 1

OanC€ conCERt immediately after arriving in (\DRJl21 8:00pm San Salvador, so this was my only opportunity for a good talk 
Washll1qton hall 

with him and his companions.oonat1oo $1 We conversed for an hour en route, all in Spanish, which WR 1n~o. call 283-1669 seems to get better the longer I try it, even though I am completely shameless and
::pedalthanks to almost innocent of grammar. It really doesn't matter as
the Holy CrossHogs 
long as you can say all you want and understand everything that is being said to you. I was pleasantly surprised to find how optimistic the Bishops were

Summer Special Rates 
about the election coming up tomorrow. They are sure the people are going to vote with their feet and somehow tell the world that this country can








STORAGE 
stand up and freely vote itself a better life. They certainly deserve it after these years of agony. Bishop Rivera y Damas thought that the Christian Democrats would probably get 

;;;iii,~-=~·'···a,aaa• 
CALL NOW 683-1959 a majority vote. We talked about many other things, including a new
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 
APPROX 2¥2 MILES NORTH U.S. ?1-33 
GATES OPEN ALLDAY SUNDAY 

Master Mini Warehouses 
'• a a 
CAMPUS MINISTRY LECTURE SERIES 
R€ll(jl0t1 anb politiCS: Stmnq€BeOratows? 
BY (jov.)ohn QU1cpn 
April 21 -Wednesday -7:00-8:30 Pm · 
Hayes-Healy 
an 
• cctr .,•



a:. • m•n::ry • 
Catholic university that the hierarchy wants to build here in Salvador to train leadership in the years ahead. I told them many things about Notre Dame, and they promised to come and visit us to see how it is done. I think they are impressed by the quality of Notre Dame alumni here and how they are all taking positions of leadership with good Christian responsibility and a sense ofsocial justice that dos not exactly permeate this society. Many subjects later, we arrived in town and delivered Bishop Rivera y Damas to his Salesian House from which he is leaving for his diocese up country, and then dropped off the other two, at which point our car gave up the ghost. We returned to the Hotel Presidente in the jeep and sent someone out for our compamons who were 
stranded. 
Back at the hotel, I ran into ] oe Sullivan and Congressman Jack Murtha. We talked about the assignments to view the voting all across the country 


... Hesburgh 
tomorrow. We hope to fan out in all directions. It seems that the most difficult assignment is to the east which is the part of the country that is mostly dominated by the guerilla groups. All of the other groups will go out in armored cars, but for the eastern assignment there is only one way to get there and that is by a large helicopter (a Huey, which can take about 14 people, and therefore, include a few rifle men). No one has too clear a picture of who is dominating in the eastern region at the moment and whether or not voting will be allowed to take place because of the threats from the guerillas. Our delegation feels it would lack all credibility if we covered all of the other parts of the country, however difficult, and did not go to the east, which is really guerilla country. They don't want to go there in an armored car because of road blocks and possible shootouts, but they do think they might get through in a helicopter and then take their chances. We will need two volunteers for this particular trip and since Congressman Murtha, a Marine officer from Vietnam and a very large and strong fellow, has already volunteered to go, I told them I would be happy to accompany him. They still want to check it out with security at the Embassy, but that's where we stand at the moment. I have suddenly become quite popular because they all say no matter what happens, if I'm with them, at least they'11 get the Last Sacraments. I always smile at this because I wonder who takes care of me, and I guess the only answer is the Lord. 
IlliSB GUABD 
Short practice for anyone , a1pecially freshmen, interested in trying out this fall. 4:00 PM Green fteld ""ar Band Tower) 
Thurs. April22 
Must be at least 6' 2" Ifunable to attend but 
interested call Kevin 1216 

Movin'out? 
RENTA 



RYDER TRUCK 
If you're I 8 or over you can rent a Ryder truck to use locally or on a one-way {rent-It-here, leave-It-there/ trip to another city 
Compare costs before you make plans for moving at the end of the semester With a truck you can take along your stereo, 10-speed, clothes, all your stuff, and still have plenty of room for one or two other people and their things, so you can share the costs. Compare that to a plane ticket Or even a bus. 

Rent from the best-maintained, most dependable fleet 1n 1~~·I ....a ... ' _
,---------..----------------­
•1 QOI OFF anyoneway
10 rental card rateIwith this COUPON andyour Student FacultyiD · 
through June 30, 1982 

• IN r_HE ROUND • WEDNESDAY, APRIL 28-8 P.M. 

~,·-yn~!!f~ifti=T~­
NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
Tickets-$15.00 & $12.50 on sale at Notre Dame A.C.C. (Mon.-Sat. 9 to 5) • 
.~~~~-( 2715N.BENDIXDRSou_t!!J!end:.,;
Robertson's (So. Bend & Concord • St. Joseph Bank (Main Branch}• 


--~!¥.·· . ·-. :.i,;·.::_;~'tf-.J<.~h-~\J~lif'··.:'f.:.f..~.,~-~~-v-Y~a.YJa:·'ht'lr-~-----...;-~-.• ·-··-:,;..,.,..·,_ • : •:,~~:.&:_~~-:..:.·Aif,t:r.itt~;-:,~:;.:.;,.:.•~~t.,.. ~-·~~-.'"!!t.• 
JDbe()~~S~P~EC~~~L~============================~ 
Women at Notre Dame lOYearS 
Wednesday, April 21, 1982 -page 5
[Photos courtesy of THE DOME] 
Coeducation: large strides taken, but job incomplete 
By SONYA STINSON 
StaffRepor~t•r 
After ten year~ of coedu<..:Uion, the tradi­tional ima~t· of Notre Dame as a "male bas­tion" has bent to include the women who are participatin~ more and more fully in campus life, hut we still have a long way to 
go in huilding social relationships, say stu­dent~ and administrators. 
"I'm sure that there are other campuses that have similar prohlems. But I'm also sure that there are other campuses where men and women have an easier time social­ly,"said Jim McDonnell, Director of Student Activities. 
One reason Notre Dame students might 

have more problems than students on other 
campuses is the lack of space for social ac­
tivities, McDonnell said. Former Student 
Body Vice President Tara Kenney helped to 
present the proposal for a new student cen­
ter as an answer to the need for social space. 
"We took a look at the social alternatives on campus and there weren't too many," Kenney said. She said that most students do not view LaFortune as a place to gather so­cially. 
McDonnell agrees. "People don't perceive LaFortune as a student center, and they cer­tainly don't perceive it as a place to meet people," he commented. 
McDonnell said a Student Activities sur­vey shows that students want facilities for activities that would bring people together. They have suggested a bowling hall, game rooms, a movie theater, and a place for dancing. And they want more of a variety of eating places, "something with a decor more intimate than the Huddlt:," McDonnell said. 
More social space might help make a bet­ter social life possible for Notre Dame men and women, hut McDonnell thinks it is not enough. "You can put up a new building and it might get people together, but attitudes will still need to change. Anybody who thinks putting up a building will solve problems in interpersonal relations is not being realistic," he said. 
Another concern which ties in with the 

BySANDYVALENZUELA 
News Staff 
Ten years later, the first women graduates of Notre Dame are grateful for their ND ex­erience, according to a random survey. Ann Palmer, 1973 graduate and BA degree recipient, said that it was very advantageous to be a part of the first class of women graduates. 
According to Palmer, the first women graduates of Notre Dame were Saint Mary's students who, in anticipation of the merging of the two schools, had ND majors. They lived at SMC although underclasswomen 
•

amer1ca 
problem of social space is that Notre Dame students don't date much. "I hear students complain that there is no place to take a date," McDonnell said. "And there's not muc;h excitement in having a hag ofpopcorn at the Huddle." 
Another reason for not dating is that some students prefer to concentrate on academics. "A lot of students would like to defer any sort of involement until they get their degree," Fr. Greg Green, Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs, commented. 
Kenney added, "You have to make sacrifices and the easiest sacrifice to make is to give up the social life. Here you can't real­ly accommodate all your social needs if you want to be successful." 
Part of the prohlem is shyness and lack of 

confidence, McDonnell said. "How do you 
convince a guy that it's not so bad to ask 
See STRIDES, page 8 


ND-SMC 
Women's relationship : limited but changing 
By MARGARET FOSMOE and MARY AGNES CAREY Saint Mary's News Editors 
After 10 years of women at Notre Dame, one would think that a com­munity has developed between the women of ND and Saint Mary's. But has it? 
Administrators and students of both institutions agree that a relationship exists, yet improvements are needed. Notre Dame Dean of Students James Roemer said he has seen a "good working relationship" between the two groups of women and that he has observed ''no problems whatsoever'' in his seven years at ND. 
He noted a ''good basketball rivalry'' between the schools, which he feels is "healthy for both schools." 
Roemer said the building of the new Alumni/Senior Bar this summer will aid in developing the relationships between the women. He feels the present Senior Bar provides the proper air for socializing, but that more space is necessary. b new Senior Bar will provide an additional 7,000 square feet, which will ' 'make socializing even better," according to Roemer. 
Saint Mary's Dean of Student Affairs Kathleen Rice said that, durin~ her five years at Saint Mary's, activittes (such as freshman orientation on both cam­puses) have been planned to bring the ND-SMC women together, yet they (ND women) are always welcome to attend any SMC lectures or other programs. 
1981-82 SMC Student Body President 
• Eileen Murphy, however, disagrees. 
Graduates grateful ten years later 
were allowed to live at ND. 
They took their core requirements at SMC but most of the classes in their major field of study at ND during their four years. Thus, most students reported taking about half of their classes at each school. 
Margaret Von Der Schmidt, presently a manager in a public accounting firm who earned a BBA at ND, explained that SMC, be­cause of the limited degree offerings, essen­tially prepared the students to be teachers. ND had a more varied program. 
Ofthe women surveyed, most agreed that the professors were not any tougher on women than men students. According to Katie Silva, who graduated with a BBA and 
now holds a part-time bank job, said that the 
professors treated them "differently hut not 
tougher." 
Julie Webb, presently an attorney with a BA from ND, thinks that the "professors weren't tougher on women, but the at­mospere was." 
Other opinions varied. One graduate said that about halfofher professors were tough­er on women but the other half treated her the same. 
Another graduate Maryann T. Proctor, recipient of a Bachelor of Architecture de­gree, disagrees and stated that the professors were "decidedly tougher on women." 
When questioned about the social life, the women also had varying opinions. Accord­ing to Silva, the social pressure was "less ofa problem because there were women at ND." Susan Mogab, who acquired a BA at Notre Dame, commented that it made for a "more realistic situation." 
One grad who wished not to be identified 
said that at times it was "degrading--like a 
meat show. The great imbalance of 7: I ratio 
created false ego for women there." 
Webb thinks the wome;n were "not 
resented by men because they had been 
going there all along." But Palmer said some 
of the guys expressed "hard feelings at first 
because their friends weren't accepted (for 
admission)," as well as resentment from 
some parents whose sons weren't accepted. 
Palmer summed it up simply, "If I had to 
do it all over, I'd doit again." 
"ND, it seems, likes to separate itself from Saint Mary's," she stated. "I've experienced a few people in just the right places. _ . who feel very self-sufficient. I think that's a very dangerous mistake. 
''This is a hysterical r,roblem, any­way," she continued_ ' It strikes me that there's this 'woman against woman' thing. It's about damn time we start pulling together." 
Murphy also said that there is ''obviously much room for improve­ment on both sides," yet more thought than action exists to correct the situation. 
Anne Bodoh, ND Transfer Orien­tation Commissioner, said she believes "a stereotype carried on year after year is preventmg'' a good relationship between the schools. 
Bodoh said she also believes the 
stereotype is based on a minority. 
"People characterize the typical 'SMC 
chick based on a minority and· assume 
it fits all Saint Mary's. students. And 
this in tum fuels the fire so the 
stereotypes continue," said Bodoh. 
During her four years at Saint Mary's, Mary O'Keefe has served as a hall representative, sophomore class vice president and juntor class pres­ident, and has witnessed "an overall improvement in the relationship with Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women.' 
"As class president, I had to get to know the girls and work with them. I never had that bias, that prejudice, that stereotype against ND women. The ND women agreed that was a narrow way of thinking." O'Keefe added that one way to bring the two groups together is to publicize events for the respective classes, instead of billing them as sponsored by either ND or SMC. 
Junior Nin Deleone, three-year mem­ber of ND Student Government and next year's student alumni represent­ative on the student cabinet, thinks such prejudice is "an image that is not really carried out.'' 
''People talk about it a lot but in true relationshi_{>s, it's not like that at all," Deleone satd. "It's taken more to heart the freshman Jear_'' 
She pointe out that "antagonism can happen at either college by itself. It doesn't have to be between the schools." 
Deleone said as the maleIfemale ratio at ND becomes more equal, the 
See SMC, page 8 



-----·------­
The Observer·Special-Women at ND Wednesday, April21, 1982 -page 6 
Five of today's women 
Growth of Coeducation
give views on coe~ucation 
By SUSAN O'HARA 
News Staff 
Ten years have passed since women were 
admitted to Notre Dame. To commemorate 
this anniversary The Observer interviewed 
five leading women of the university: Jackie 
Bollas, Mary Ann Fenwick, Martha Jiminez, 
Tara Kenney and Shari Matvey. 
Jackie Bollas, one of the senior class valedictorians, said she would improve the social life at Notre Dame through academics. 
"They must admit women to the univer­sity using the same criterion they use for men. Otherwise, this imbalance creates the ti:eling that Notre Dame women are here solely for academics which is threatening for Notre Dame men." 
Many men," she adds, "wouldn't date a smarter girl." She also said a conflict arises for women. 
"Women are encouraged to achieve in the 
classroom, yet when they do, are they still 

feminine since achievement is primarily a 
masculine activity?" 
Although the social life may be lacking in 
some areas, Bolas says there is "great poten­
tial for spiritual growth at Notre Dame." She 
noted that "ND was a healthy environment 
for me, I enjoyed the Catholic atmosphere." 
Mary Ann Fenwick, an active member of the organization Community for the Interna­tional Lay Apostulate ( CILA) said "a more diverse student body" would lead to an im­oroved social life at Notre Dame. 
"We lead a sheltered existence at Notre Dame because there aren't all types of people." She added that "we need a balance between men and women." 
Academically, Fenwick thinks that "we have to take too many credits per semester and ultimately you can't devote much time to any one class." 
She concluded that "Notre Dame can give students challenges to grow as individuals." 
To improve the social life at Notre Dame we must "increase the allotment of women" says Tara Kenney, former Student Body vice­president. 
Either that or "introduce co-educational dormitories," which, Kenney admits "is not a teasible idea with the statements Fr. Ted has made concerning co-ed dorms." 
Aside from the social life at Notre Dame, Kenney said "the spiritual life at NO is out­standing in comparison with other schools," although in the future Tara would like to see women rectors. 
On the whole, Kenney said she is "very 
much satisfied with Notre Dame. The social 
life may be regressing but it is compensated 
for ten-fold in many other ways. Notre Dame 
is the best decision I've ever made." 
"Isolated under an ivory tower" are the 

words Shari Matvey, leading women athlete 
uses to describe the social life at NO. 

"We're pretty limited, especially since 
there's not much to do off-campus." The 

limited social life at NO "encourages better friendships," Matvey added. "It is easy to find someone with the same interests as you." 
As for the university's academic cur­riculum, Matvey feels it is "good, although there is too much emphasis on maintaining a high GPA which leads students to take the lightest load possible. 
Some students are not IParning for the sake oflearning." 
In general, Matvey is satisfied with Notre Dame and feels fortunate to have been caught in the transition from Division 3 girls basketball to Division 1. 
"The reason I came to Notre Dame was the athletic and academic programs combined, Matvey noted. 
Martha Jiminez, former head of CILA, believes "a centrally located calendar that would describe all the events going on" as well as "more open-type getting together to meet teachers and students on a more casual basis in an atmosphere conducive to social interaction" is what ND needs to stimulate its social life. 
"People need to get involed. Notre Dame offers a lot but people must take advantage of the lectures, discussions, films, and debates. 
"Learning can be fun, it doesn't have to be separate from your social life." 
Jiminez places emphasis on extracur­ricular activities and points out that "what you get out of Notre Dame depends on how much you put into it, without neglecting your studies." 
Overall, Jiminez feels she has learned "a 
great deal" from Notre Dame and says her 
education has been "very, very good, partly 
because it went beyond the books." 



Wotnenprofs tnore than double since '72 
ByVIC SCIULLI 
News Editor 

The University ofNotre Dame employed a 
total of 794 faculty members during the 
1980-8I school year. Ninety-eight of these 
were women. The 12/ 3 ratio is nearly 
double that of 1972, the year women were 
first admitted as undergraduates, when 48 of 
the 728 faculty members were women. 

A total of I59 full professors were on the 
faculty last year. Only three were women 
(Two more have been added this year). Of 
the total number of tenured faculty mem­
bers, only I 2 were women. , 
Although statistics for the 198I -82 are 
still being compiled, there are approximate­
ly 80 female professors involved in teaching 
and research at the University, an increase of 
I 5 from the previous school year. Five 
women are currently involved in academic 
administration. This is the largest number 
since 1972 when Sr. John Miriam Jones S.C., 
627 

625 
500 
250 
125 
FY AL BUS ENG SCI 
With 1982 celebrating a decade of women at Notre Dame, the office of the Registrar has released the above figures on the increase in female enrollment in each college of the University. 
Total enrollment of undergraduate women who have declared majors has increased from 365 in 1972 to 1899 women in the fall of I981. 
currently assistant provost, was the only 
female administrator. 
No one is certain why there is such an im­
balance between the number of male and 
female professors at the University. 
Availability ofqualified women applicants is 
a problem in many fields. For example, only 
two or three percent of the Ph.D.'s are 
awarded to women. 
In the life sciences, women comprise ten 
percent ofthe number ofdoctorates. Only in 
education are the number of doctorates 
equally awarded between men and women. 
Jones believes that the University is 
moving toward the point where availability 
won't be a problem. 
The job market has also been responsible for the low number of women in certain fields. Women with degrees in engineering and business, for example, are made very lucrative offers by companies. The promise of a high salary is enough to draw most of these women into the market. 
Jones believes that a woman must be very committed to turn down these offers in favor ofthe additional education required to teach. 
Turnover rate is a problem for certain departments within the University. "Departments become highly tenured in," Jones said. This problem will increase after July, when the retirement age in universities will be raised from 65 to 70. The higher age will keep currently tenured professors lon­ger, making advancement difficult. 
The University has also experienced rejection of their offers made to female professors. One reason cited by Jones is the increase in the number of professional married couples. Often the University has of­fered a position to only one spouse, but do not have an available position for the other. 
Many women offered positions would be the first in their department. Self­consciousness about being the only woman makes it difficult for many professors. 
This problem is even greater for un­married faculty members. As in society, the university social life is geared toward couples. Many women, Jones believes, would feel awkward in a department composed entirely of men. 
Notre Dame, like most major universities 
in the country, has an Affirmative Action 
Program. The program evaluates and 
reviews a department's efforts in hiring 
women and minorities. The committee can 
then recommend to the provost changes 
that should be made. 
Sr. John believes that Aftlrmative Action 
Programs are construed in too legalistic 
terms. Although she believes that legalities 
torce us to accept equal hiring practices, she 
doesn't believe they are the only way of 
bringing about change. 
"Whether or not there is affirmative ac­
tion, we should do it," she said. "We should 
do it because it is good for the place (Notre 
Dame)." 
Female professors interviewed were con­
scious of the disproportionate number of 
female faculty members. These professors, 
however, strongly believed that the oppur­
tunities for males and females were the same 
within the University. But as Dr. Linda­
Marg;u:~t Hunt of the Biology Department 
put it, "The problem is getting into the sys­
tem." 
Hunt, who is one ofthe only three women 
in the college of science, is not certain why 
there is a disproportionate number of 
women at the entry level into the University. 
She does not believe that the reason for the lack ofwomen is because there arent any women receiving PhD's. Notre Dame's "track record for not hiring women" may be a reason, however. 
Women receiving their doctorates, Hunt noted, may shy away from Notre Dame, ask­ing themselves, "Do I want to teach in that situation where colleagues of my own sex aren't to be had?" 
Hunt, who is the only woman in the Biol­ogy Departent, believes that there is a lack of female consciousness by male professors at the University. 
She jokingly cited examples of being referred to as one of the "gentlemen" in department meetings. This lack of con­sciousness occurs much too often, she believes. 
Theology Professor Dr. Josephine Massyn­geber.de Ford believes that students at the University accepted female professors long before male professors did. 
Hunt believes that the University's Affirm­
ative Action Program is "making moves" to 
increase the number offemale faculty mem­
bers. "It's not in the interest ofthe University 
to not make an effort," she emphasized. 
Dr. Joan Aldous, who holds the Willia R. 
Kenan Jr. Endowed Chair in Socioology, 
agrees with Hunt that qualified women are 
available. 

The Observer·Special-WomenatND Wednesday, April 21, 1982 -page 7 
Wolllen adlllissions stabilize 
duringnext twoye~s 
By KATIE McDONNEll StaffReporter 
Admission to Notr~ Dame has always been 
tough to gain -ask any ~ager applicant now 
-but it looks as though women arc at a fine 
vantage point for at least two more years. 
According to Kevin M. Rooney, Assistant 
Director of Admissions, there was merely a 
"token ctlort" to enroll women at the Uni· 
vcrsity back in 1972, but conditions have 
clearly changed today. 
Presently, the Office ofAdmissions is in its 
s~cond year of a four-year program 
(suggested by the University Administrators 
and Board ofTrustees) to enroll 500 women 
each y~ar and ultimately fill all vacant spaces created by th~ new Pasqut·rilla dorms. 
"We'v~ rcach~d a plat~au for women ap­plicants,"Rooncy says, from now until the mid-19HO's. W~ have had virtually the same ~tatiMics in applications and acceptances for two years now, ami this steady progression has been helpful." 
These statistics arc remarkable in them­
~clvcs, reminding all present students of just 
how "chosen" they were. In 1972, there 
were I I 00 women applicants to the newly 
co-ed university, and 125 of them were en­
rolkd (excluding transfer students.) 
In 1974, the tir~t "normal y~ar" according 
to Rooney after initial adjustments had been 
mad(·. there wer~ 1350 women applicants to 
Notr~ Dame, and 3HO freshmen enrolled 
from these. From then on, the number of 
women enrolled at ND each year has st~adi­
Jy incn:ascd to the total of SOO chosen from 
2HOO application~ this year. 
The number of transfer students enrolled 
over the past decade docs not alter these 
figures to any great extent, but it has proved 
hendkial to women in one particular area 
-campus housing. For th~ past two s~mcs­tcrs, all women transfers have b~cn granted on-campus housing automatically, which would not have been possible if th~ new dorms wcr~ not just partially filled. 
"It would be close to a miracle," Rooney explains, "if men transfers were given on­<.:ampus housing." 
In aJdition, Rooncr aJded that the num­ber of recently issued scholarships for women in sports has not had a drastic impact on the admissions process, either. 
In terms of overall trends in admissions 
for both sexes. the picture is virtually the 
same as it has been for women -com­
petitive. 
In 19-:r2, for example, there were 5,500 
applications taken and I,600 freshmen en­rolled. In 19H2, though, there have been 7,750 applications to review and an es­timated enrollment of 1,775 to be here in the fall. 
Rooney feels that competition has been even stiffer in these past few years because both the quantity and the quality of ap­plicants has increased considerably. 
'... We have had virtually the same statistics in applications and acceptances for two years . .. ' 
In addition, more applications have been 
coming from the Sunbelt area of the United 
States -particularly California, Texas and 
Hawaii -than Notre Dame has ever 
received hcti:>re. An int~rnal study is now 
being done within the Admissions Oftice to 
compare the academic results of freshmen 
with various transcript information found 
on the applications, in hopes of discerning 
other trends that might occur~ like this in 
the future. 
The Admissions process at Notre Dame is 
a lengthy one, beginning for the office each 
Occcmhcr when the first group of applica­
tions is reviewed. From this time until early 
April, acceptances arc made on a rolling 
basis hy the Director of Admissions, John T. 
Goldrick, and his office consisting of two as­
sistant directors and tive counselors. 

For each application, two of these reviewers analyze the contents separately and then confer about their findings. If their decision is mutual, this opinion is then final. If they disagree, however, the application is brought before the entire group in a con­mmittee meeting and decided upon. 
After all parts to an application have been received by the office (SAT scores, recom­mendations, etc.) the committee hopes to complete this process and notify the ap­plicant within 4-6 weeks. 

Although the admissions process has not changed to any great extent over the years, the statistics mentioned earlier clearly indi­cate that, at least, times have changed around them. 

By CAROL CAMP 
StaffReporter 
"As women of Notre Dame, we are on the cutting edge of discovering what our future role will be -however, I belicv~ that we face a three-fold challenge in the coming years: being tolerable, maintaining impor­tant personal values, and being realisitic." 
These observations, which were recently made by Assistant Provost and Dean of Women, Sr. John Miriam Jones, rellect the depth of her commitment to the excel­lence of coeducation at the University of Notre Dame. In arecent interview Sr. Jones shared her perspectives as to the future role 
that  the  University's  1,900  women  will  
assume.  
At  the  present  time,  there  are  ap­ 

proximately 1,900 women at Notre Dame. Sr. Jones predicted that "about 200 more will be added to the total student body in the ncar future." 
With the additions of Pasqucrilla East and 
Future leaders ,. 

Coeducation offers learning environtnent 
ByJERRYYOUNG 
Features Writer 
When I was asked to write a story on "the ten years of women at Notre Dame", I did not know how to approach it. Sure, admit­ting women to this fine institution was a 
great landmark in breaking the established norm of an all-male university (please con­trol any wretched feeling in your stomach); however, Notre Dame was one of the last universities in the country to change. With this in mind I set out to capture the feeling of the students and administration during this crucial era, and to somehow reconcile the chauvinistic attitude that was prevalent. 
ln a 197I Obserwr article, just prior to the Sept. I972 admission of females to Notre Dame, student Ted Price wrote an article concerning the new university policy of .coeducation. 
I tried to appreciate his views on the problems that bringing women into the uni­versity would induce, but the article was a purely chauvinistic stand on bringing a less­qualified gender into the community. 
His main concern was the detrimental ef. feet that women would have on males in their competitive pursuit for a place in the job market. This guy was actually scared that having women at Notre Dame would lessen his chances of securing a job with some company -not even considering that this woman might be a hencr qualitlcd person in 

the first place. The general notion seemed to 
be that high-paying jobs were for men, so 
keep the women out! 
Further investigation brought me to the 

conclusion that women were being ad­
mitted to the university for two reasons. 

First, the high-caliber male students that Notre Dame wished to attract were not applying because of this all-male com­munity. As Richard W. Conklin, Director of Information Services, wrote, "in the busi­ness world, customers for one's services determines in large part the nature of those services, and the same is true to a certain extent in higher education." In other words, if the University did not offer an attractive environment for prospective males, it would lose credibility as an educational institution. 
Secondly, since men will be in a society 

where they will be confronted with a 
population in which more than half are 
females, their mature development will be 
intensitied in a community of education 
where women arc present. 
Although these two reasons seem to be 
just cause for females to be admitted to 
Notre Dame , they arc very chauvinistic. In 
the first case, women arc tolerated so that a 
climat~ favorable to top-ranking men can he 
created. 

The other serves as a means to achieve a psycho-social male homeostasis where th~ male can make himself a more "w~ll­
rounded" individual readied for the real world. 
There should be no differentiation be­
tween male and female students in the con­
cerns of academia I have never thought of 
myself as an active proponant of ERA, nor 
have I been overly concerned about voicing 
the opinion ofany discriminated group. 
I am, however, a humanist who believes that people should be accepted as people, capable of their own fulfillment, without regard to some gender-oriented trait. We should not attempt to delineate the capabilities ofindividuals on the basis ofsex. Why shouldn't women be able to come to Notre Dame for the same reasons that a male would, to acquire a top-rate education. 
In 1972, the student body of Notre Dame consisted of 6,600 students -of that num­ber, 365 were women ( 125 freshman and 240 transfers). I believe we have come a long way since the pre-admittance chauvinistic era of those Notre Dame men when they first learned about the possibility ofcoeducation. 
Granted, we still have the "NO FAT CHICKS" idiots who patronize females at this university, but at least now women are being taken as more than just beneficial en­tities to the male learning environment. It has become a coed learning environment for future leaders ofsociety. 
Pasqucrilla West, SOO women were ad­
mitted to the University, raising the percent· . 
age of female undergraduates to thirty 
percent of the total student population. This 
percentage would increase to thirty-five or 
even torty percent, however, "if we did not 
pay attention to quotas." 
In expressing the hope that "we will 
someday have a natural percentage between 
thirty-five and forty percent," Sr. Jones ack­
nowledged the importance ofexamining the • 
impact which increasing the number of 
female students has had upon the university. 
Responding to the frequent charge that 
women at Notre Dame do not share the 
same opportunities as their male counter­
parts, Sr. Jones expressed her view of the 
challenge confronting female students. 
"At Notre Dame, we give a mmt· 
experience of life in a male-dominated 
world. The University is a training ground 
for what society is still like. Happily, it's 
changing and so are we, but there's still a bit 
ofadjustment that needs to be made. 
"Although no one wants to admit it, Notre 
Dame has served its women as a laboratory 
for life in the real world. Believe it or not, it's 
really been a blessing." 
Concerning the possibility of adding 
courses designed specifically for women to 
the University's curriculum, Sr. jones said, 
"The kind ofwomen we have here blend in­
to our majors, and there has been no indica­
tion of a need for specialized classes of any 
kind in the curriculum as far as women are 
concerned." 
She did however applaud the University's 
course offerings which place emphasis upon 
the importance of women in such fields as 
theology, literature, and history. 
Rather than offering courses designed for female students, Sr. Jones cited a general need for "courses that on many fronts will examine maleness and femaleness." 
Additionally, she favors the integration of 
these clements "into a course, rather than 
having them made into separate courses." 
Expressing her view as to the shape which 
the future role ofwomen at Notre Dame will 
assume, Sr. Jones described a conve-rsation 
with Jane Pauley, who recently spoke at 
Notre Dame as one of the speakers in the 
American Women's Lecture Series. 
"One day at lunch, Jane Pauley and I dis­
cussed the place of women in society. She 
told me about her older sister, who she 
described as being at the end of an era of 
women who wanted equality in the profes­
sional and career world, and sacrificed 
everything else. 
"Now, they realize that that sacrifice 
wasn't really necessary. 
"Jane (Pauley) sees herself as the begin­ning of the next group of women who want both a career and a family. I think that's where we are today -we're looking for ways to have both worlds." 

Wednesday, April 21, 1982 -page 8 
Coeducation risky topic for Notre Dame lllan 
By JOE MUSUMECI Editorials W n'ter 
Shifting a car into reverse at 60 m.p.h.; betting your insurance premium on the Cubs in Yankee Stadium; asking a Notre Dame man to write about Notre Dame women ... all are high-risk pro­positions. 
From listening around campus, one might infer that most people seem to agree with the above statement. In fact, I have decided that a majority would consider the first two propositions much safer than the last. There seems to be a feeling that some sort of enmity exists between men and women at Notre Dame; that there is something different about coeducation at Notre Dame. 
But my experience seems to indicate that the difference is not in coeducation. An associate of mine remarked that the men here have an attitude problem when it comes to dealing with women. There are three things men hate, he said: "Women who are bigger than them, women who are stronger than them, and women who are smarter than them.'' He seemed to feel that this was a problem peculiar to the Notre Dame community. I have been to several other campuses in the country, and I haven't noticed that men are any less scared of "superior" women. College men and women all over the place are still having trouble accepting each other as indiv­iduals on an e9~al basis. 
No, the problem is not that men or women at Notre Dame are somehow "different." Mter talking to several friends here of both sexes, I have decided that ten years after coeducation "arrived on our illustrious campus, it still isn't really here. 
I know a good number of men and women here, and they are (for the most part) perfectly normal young adults. They attend classes together, they share notes, they involve themselves in deep discussions together. None of them feel coeducated. 

The Administration of our University seems to feel that an education, or a coeducation, as the case may be, does not extend beyond the classroom. 
Men and women slare the same 
classes, and the same meals. This is as 
far as coeducation at Notre Dame goes. 
Men and women live in different 
buildings; the women's dorms require a 
Detex card to enter in the evenings, 
men's dorms do not. Men have a 
laundry service, women have machines 
in the basements of their dorms. 

Men and women can, of course, be together any time they want, any place on campus. Any place, that is, except where they live. Men cannot be in women's dorms, and vice-versa, after midnight on weekdays, and after 2 a.m. on weekends. This, of course, is good because it prevents the sort of sexual orgies which invariably precipitate whenever members of the opposite sex are left together after the witching hour. 
Right. 

There is some validity to the parieta!s situation if you buy the idea that a Christian university can teach Christian morals only by removing opportunities for transgression, but I don't. Oh, welL 
Funny, but on the tenth anniversary of coeducation at Notre Dame, I find there's not really much to say about it. I'm sure there were problems back in the beginning years, and I am sure many have been solved, just as my female friends remind me that many have not. But it seems that the system ofeducation is the major concern, not of coeducation. Bringing women into the University was a ste.{> toward the "real" world, but we have a long way to go. 
So, Congratulations, women of Notre Dame, on surviving ten years of parietals and Detex locks on locker room doors. Coeducation has been nice; I look forward to the days when we can start coexisting. I hope it's not another ten years. 
conh'nued from page 5 
somebody out? If the problem is that the guys think the girls have other plans, then, maybe we need a survey to show how many would really like to go out on a date. 
"IfI were in that age group, I would rather have a date than just go out drinking with the guys. And I think the majority of students feel the same way," he commented. 
McDonnell and others pointed out yet an· other problem. Even in places where men and women can get together, they tend to segregate themselves. They go to the dining halls in separate groups, they play sports separately, and most of their planned social activity is centered in the dorm. 
"But the halls are unisex," Fr. Green com­mented. "Now maybe we should have addi­tional areas that bring in the broader community." 
Fr. john Van Wolvlear, Vice President for Student Affairs, pointed out another possible reason for the separation of the sexes. "I think the macho image of the male has made interaction difficult. 
Before women were admitted, Notre 
Dame was known as a male bastion. Now, 
with women getting into the spotlight, 
competing in all areas, the men feel they 
have to be more macho." 
Asst. Provost reflects upon 10-yeartransition 
Editor's note: Recently Staff Reporter Kathleen Doyle met with Sister johnMiriam}ones, S.C., Dean of women and Assistant Provost, to discuss the effects of the transition to co-educah'on at Notre Dame. 
Q: What are the posih've ramificah'ons ofhaving women at Notre Dame? 
A: Bringing women to Notre Dame has followed a trend in the society of the 70's -a readiness and a consciousness that education at a university setting is best when it represents all components of the universe. So the presence of women here is proper in that sense, as half the human race. Bringing them here has enabled us, I think, to have a balanced, wholesome, normal kind of !earning experience. I say that not only for the classroom, where I think that's urgent, but I say it also for outside the classroom, beyond the walls of the formal education because life is best when it is balanced and I think the presence of women among our student body has enabled that. -­
Q: If again given the chance to prepare Notre Dame for the transition to co-educah'on which occuTTed ten years ago, would you do anything differently? 
A: I guess I might take a little more time between the decision and the bringing of women here. The decision was made in January or February of 1972 and we had women on campus the following September. There were 365 
women in a total undergraduate student body of 6600. We converted Badin and Walsh for the living of women over the summer. Possibly because it was done so quickly people were not mentally ready, neither the people here on campus to whom the women were coming and whom they were joining, nor some of the women themselves. Some of the women were greatly surprised to find out that they were being put in a position of pioneering when they expected to come solely as, in their mind, the first women students at Notre Dame. Somehow they didn't make the connection as to the trail­blazing that was going to be imposed upon them. The ratio of women to men was 1 to 17 and with that kind of public stance and with expectations being !aid on you as one of the early women students, it could be somewhat burden~ 

some. 

Q: What are some of the most common problems faced by your office? 
A: This particular office is concerned with a great deal more than the ~ell-being of women students at this point in time and maybe that says something good. In the ten years that I've been responsible for that, the proportion of time I've spent doing things relating to the needs of women has altered considerably. In the begin­ning it was 100 percent. Now it might be 10 or 20 percent. The problems I see most often are attitude-related. 
Q: At this point, do you think Notre Dame has satisfactorily prepared women for lzfe after graduation? 
A: The recent survey of our 2400 alumnae which has just been completed gives us every reason to know that we've prepared them well academically. And an interesting thing is that in the survey we asked the women in what way Notre Dame succeeded in preparing them for the world they met and in what ways we did not do welL One of the interesting answers that kept coming back over and over was that by design, Notre Dame, being a male-dominated campus, mimicked the kind of world that they walked into when they became business and professional people. They had learned to survive and to thrive in this male-dominated world. In a sense we had mirrored what they were going into and helped them, supported them as they went through learning to cope with this male environment. 
Q: What are some of the problems that female professors bring to you? 
A:We still, of course, are in the growing stage of increasing the presence of women among our faculty. 
They, like many of the early women students, are the first in their departments, so in the beginning at least, they were sometimes met with less understanding and less apprecia­tion than they find themselves met with today. I think we've grown extensively in that welcoming of women peers among our faculty. The problems that you still hear about are probably, like with the women students, attitudinally related. Again, there is an occasional security problem. 
... Strides 

But he also believes that attitudes toward women at Notre Dame have changed over the years, and that the men have gotten more used to having them around. "Years ago the guys would whistle whenever there was a girl around, because it was so rare," he pointed out. He also said that "there has been a definite increase in social activity since women were admitted." 
A continued focus on the problem of so­cial space and an increase in interhall ac­tivities were among the suggestions for improving male-female relationships. But there was also the suggestion that attitudes will have to change and that students must take some initiative. 
"I don't know ifmuch can be done about it 
administratively ifthe students don't do it on 
their own," said Fr. Green. 
• • • SMC 

continued from page 5 
social pressures at both schools will be lessened, and it may "help male­female relationships, also." 
During her ftrst year at SMC, Mary Anne O'Donnel was director of Regina Hall before assuming her present position as director of student activities for the past two years. She has also witnessed that individual classes and halls try to sponsor events for women of both campuses, rather than the respective student governments, a practice 1982-83 Student Body Pres­ident Kathleen Murphy wants to change. 
"I think we need to do something with Notre Dame, especially in women's issues," O'Donnell stated, but added that "such a lack of continuity'' prevails in SMC student government, due to the large turnover of officers each year. 
''Some women'' do allow stereotypes to stop them from meeting students on the opposite campus and ''judge on a bad experience one or two people have had," O'Donnell stated. 
In the next year, Murphy wants to bring both groups of women together with activities on both campuses. In her experiences as freshman council chair­man and sophomore class president, some events with ND hadn't had the attendance she desired, which she hopes to change. 
One ND senior transfer student who asked not to be identified said she has sensed "a lot of bad feelings" between the schools. She said "any stereotypes are out of ignorance because no one really knows what others are like." 
This student transferred from a women's college that was affiliated with a men's college that went co­educational seven years earlier, similar to the ND-SMC situation. 
''I started out at the same type of 'school and found it to be cut off socially. . . I am afraid that will happen to Saint Mary's. I don't want it to happen. . . but as it (the male­female ratio) levels off, I tend to think there w.;ll be less interaction." 
~jl>()~tS~lJ~,§h~T~~"'t~,:§..~~~·e~,.a§~~~n~~e7.As~so~cit=tte~dJ~,n~·ss~==============~~~~====W=e=dn==es=d=ay=,:A=p~r~il~2=1=,1=9=8=2=-p=a=g==e9 
GERRY FAUST announced yesterday that Mike Stewart, head football coach at Louisville St. Xavier High School the past six years, will become an assistant at Notre Dame. Stewart, 40, a graduate of Western Kentucky, will concentrate on scouting and coordinating the junior varsity for the Irish. In six years at St. Xavier he compiled a 53-18 record. --The Observer 
SAINT MARY'S SOFTBALL TEAM swept a doubleheader from Bethel College yesterday. The first game lasted only five innings because of the ''ten run rule.'' The score was 12-2. Mary Bayless struck out eight in notching th~ vi~tory. Elaine Suess hit a home run and Mary Beth Hosmsk1 and Jean Myler each had two RBI' s. The second g~e, which lasted only six innings, the Belles won 15-4. Anme Day won the nightcap. Suess had three RBI's. SMC travels to Manchester for a 3 p.m. contest tomorrow. --The Observer 
FEllOWSHIP OF CHRISTIAN ATHLETES will hold a meeting with a movie about former Notre Dame football player Ty Dickerson tonight at 9 p.m. in room 120 Hayes-Healy. All are invited. --The Observer 
SMC TRACK TEAM has qualified people for 11 of the 15 events in the state championships coming up next week. 
'Yesterday, several athletes set qualifying marks in a meet at Anderson College. The 3200 meter relay team broke t~e qualifying time by more than a minute. Annette lsom, Ltz Brady, Mary McGlinch and Cindy Short comprised that team. Kelly O'Connor qualified in the high jump (4-8), i.n the long jump (15-6) and in the 400 hurdles. c.hns Locksmith (3000 meter), Liz Brady (1500 meter) and Dtane Hartwig also qualified for the state meet, which will be held on April 30 and May 1. Coach Tim Dillon praised t~e "excellent team effort" shown yesterday. The next meet Is tomorrow against Marion College at Clay High School. 
The Observer 

IRISH LACROSSE TEAM plays host to midwest lacrosese power Dennison in an important league game today at 3:30 on Cartier Field. --The Observer 
ND-SMC SAILING CLUB will hold a meeting tonight at 6:30 in the Howard Hall social space. --The Observer 
MEN'S VOLLEYBALL TEAM plays IUPU-Fort Wayne tonight at 7 p.m. in the ACC Pit. --The Observer 
INNERTUBE WATER POLO continues today with three games. At 6 p.m., "The Pack's Back" takes on the "Fighting Piranhas 1001." At 6:40, "Walsh Water Wombats" takes on "poukeepsie." At 7:40 "J. Arthur. "plays "Heaven Above." --The Observer. 
IRISH GUARD TRYOUTS are approaching quickly. All those interested in trying out for the 1982-83 Guard should attend a short practice on Thursday, April 22, on Green Field next to the band tower. No experience is necessary, howevercandidates must be at least 6 feet, 2 inches tall. For more information, call Kevin Connors at 1216.--The Observer. 
::;,'!]i].!;W;sooKsroREJt~~!j:: 
Yesterday's Results Sectional Finals Bookstore 9 
Cooz over Haywood J ablomi Now by 3 US over Macri's Monkey Men, 27-25 (OT) Talk Plenty S... Again over Wildcats II bv 9 
BookstQre 10 Shysters over Beecher Meat and Liquor by 3 Eddie O'Rourke and the Trav­elling Stragglers over SNAG by 12 
Take This Ball and Shove It II over Twinkie and the Creamers by 9 
Lyons 11 Tequila White Lightning 11 over Thomas Aquinas and the Jurist Prudes by 8 Even Less ] acksonless Five over Red Rummers by 11 Stepan 1 Assassins over Nutmeggers Are Back Again by 5 Milwaukee over Quintin Dailey and the 4 Felons by 8 Stepan 2 Big Organ and the Bouncing Balls over R. Cranium by 11 Full House over Brogan's Heroes by 13 Stepan 3 
M.C.O.B. over Finger in the Socket by 7 Ryan's Hopes over Johnny the Wad Holmes and Four Others Who Can Fill It to the Brim 
Stepan 4 
Brick Throwers over N.E.B.O.' III by 7 A Touch of Class over Double Decker Oreo by 8 
SWEET SIXTEEN Bookstore 9 
4:45 --A Touch of Class vs. Assassins 5:30--Eddie O'Rourke and the Travelling Stragglers v. MCOB 
6:15 
--Talk Plenty S ... Again 

v. 
Ryan's Hopes 



Bookstore 10 
4:45 --Shysters v. Milwaukee 
5:30 --Even Less J acksonless Five v. Brick Throwers 
6:15 --Cooz v. Take This Ball and Shove It II 
Stepan 2 
.. 

Tequila White Lightning v. US 
Stepan 4 
6: 15 --Big Organ and the Bouncin Balls v. Full House 
Edmonton Oiler owner held captive 
EDMONTON, Alberta (AP) 
An unidentified gunman 
seized Edmonton Oilers hockey 
team owner Peter Pocklington 
as a hostage in his own home 
yesterday and demanded a 
ransom, city police reported. 
They said the gunman also 
was holding two of Pockling­
ton's household servants. 
The intruder, also armed 
with a knife and described by 
city police as extremely dan­
gerous, had released Pockling­
ton's wife, Eva, to obtain the 
ransom money, police said. 
The amount demanded could 
not be learned immediately. 
Members of a do!ice emer­gency force ringe the area of the National Hockey League team owner's home, on the edge of the Umversny of 'Alberta campus near the down­town section of this western 
Canadian City. 
Mrs. Pocklington was seen 
standing on the house's front 
lawn in her bare feet, crying 
and talking with police. 

A police negotiator was try­ing to make telephone contact witht he intruder. An ambu­lance stood by and traffic was diverted from the neighbor­hood. 
Pocklington, 40, has amassed business holdings with combined annual sales of more than $1 billion and has put together a personal fortune estimated at more than $100 million. 
Observer 
notes 
Due to computer break­down, The Observer is not accepting Classified ads for the rest of the week. The Observer apologizes for any inconvenience this may cause. 

For a limited time only, bring In this coupon and save 50% on all high fashion, high Qualltv frames, Including thOse by Oleg casslnl, Christian Dlor, Pierre cardin, Gloria vanderbilt, etc. This coupon must be presented at time glasses are ordered and no other discounts applicable. Offer good on a complete pair of prescription glasses only.
IServiceDP.ticatl 
The Eyewear Experts concord Mall 875-7472 scottsdale Mall, south send 291-2222 

offices throughout Indiana ~ 
I
IYIIXAIIINATIONAVAIL.ULI.YOPTOIIIITIMT I VISA' . WITH OPI'!CI$ ON PniiiAS . ' 
~-----------------· 
·: 

-
Classifieds 
NICE HOUSES FURNISHED CLOSt: TO , NO FOR NEXT YEAR 2773604 

._I_N_O_TIC_E_S---JI I LOST/FOUND \ 
For Rent· Student Houstng-rated supenor-summer and/or fall Clean, safe. laundry, u111t1oes, $100/mo ~otal. 291­

FOUND A bracelet at the Stanford 
1405 HAIRCUTS! ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND 
Vegetable party. To claim call 8738 
$6 FOR GIRLS-LOT OF EXPERIENCE Subleasing Campus Vtew Apt _,Jun.-Aug IN STYLING, ROTC AND PERSONALLY Reduced Rent Call Anne Or Mary 4637
ATTENTION: To whoaver "borrowed" my
DESIGNED CUTS FOR YOUR FACE (SMC)
wallet and watch from the student
AND HAIR CALL MICHOLE AT 795t secunly. The watch has great senltmental value, and it would take me about 69 Furntshed House for next year -6 bdrm 2 w-s to replace all of the stuff in the wal­bath $540 per mo. 717 Sl Louts Call Jom Expenenced typ•sl Will do typ1ng Call 
let. No ques110ns woll be asked McGann 277-34151 or 272-9299 287-5162 Good speller 
LOST. Navy blue NIKE sweat pants at 
SUMMER SUBLESSEES WANTEDt Stepan Courts dunng Bookstore Basket­
Comfortable. fully furntshed. 2 bdrm apltnball. Call Tom 6984POET RICHARD TILLINGHAST -Htckory Vtllage If tnterested call Carol orWED. APRIL 21 -7:30 P.M. IN Mtchele at 272-9603 STAPLETON LOUNGE, SAINT 
MARY'S. BE THERE I LOST: 1 pr. of eyeglasses wtth black case Between or tn LaFortune and 
SUMMER SUBLET 1258 PORTAGE Cavanaugh. Help! Call Ed x1470 
AVE GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD 1 or 2 SUMMER WORK $$$ NO students avg persn apt call 269 5931 4000$ last summer tr ave I expenence send name address and phone no to 
Be your own boss. Comfortable 5P 0 BOX 435 N D . lnd 46556 bedroom, completely furntshed house for 

FOR RENT 
5or 6 £!_o~~~~~.~~~42 

You ve heard about 11 you ve bean N D Ave Apls · Apls avatlable for sum­watltng all year for 11. .hnally, now oa your mer chance to -Mlka "aorg.r" Ount.k In 4 Bdrm N Shore $270 mo total. Call Pany 
" . 1&Ofmonth 

actiOn lhtS · r ,_~.,: ·. 3193228735 Call· refunded and next school year 234-6647 
2 student houses tor rent on Notre Dame Ave One 4-stu, one 5-stu house Wtthtn walk~ng dtstance Avatl fall semester 82. Call eventngs 272-8870. 
WANTED 
Professor reqUires part-lime typtsl who has access to Commodore CBM Model 6032 System Sand spectltcs to PO Box 77, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO 
DAVENPORT,  IOWA,  APRIL  23-25.  
WILL  SHARE  EXPENSES.  CALL  
CHERYL, 284-4529.  

Deaperat.-need one or mora gradu• tlon tlcketa. Calf 277-6032. 
Need nde to PURDUE for Grand Pnx on Fn Apnl 23 Can leave anylime Call Shem 6819 
..~.~:':":-.-. .--. ­your old refngerators w~nted, small SIZe, worktng order 282-1777 
Person wanted to dnve new car to Phtladelphta week of May 10 and return another car to South Bend W1th1n ap­proXImately 30· days~ Call 232-0453 be lore Aonl23 
The Observer will accept classtfieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classifteds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to msertion. AU classifieds must be prepatd, either tn person or through the mat I. 
NEED 2 RIDERS TO INDPLS/DEPAUW Special Dfacounta for Notre Dame LEAVE 4/23 BILL 7269 facull y on computers and penpheral products, pnnters. modems, etc Hewlert­FOR TYPING CALL 288-5655 Packard, Zentth FOURWAY COM· 
PUTER PRODUCTS, INC., 52758 US 31 Rtde or nders east on I-BO as tar as N J North (Aero•• from North Village Mall) 4/22-4/25 Call Joe t409 277-7720. 
Rtde needed 10 Toledo on Fnday, Apnl 23, and back to NO Saturday, Apnl 24 
THE BEST STEREO GEAR AT THE 
Call Denny at 11 64 LOWEST PRICES, BOSE H K JVC ALL TOP BRANDS OFFERED AT SPECIAL STUDENT RATES CALL JB 
8 

.I FOR SALE I 1,~~,·~::;;:~·-I 
USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED, .___________._ SAT SUN 9-7 CASPERSON 1303 BUCHANAN AD , NILES 
I VE GOT MONEY SELL ME YOUR EX­TRA GRAD TICKETS Ill CALL BRIAN atFOR SALE ME'D. SIZE FRIDGE t9 INCH 1928 

B&W TV CALL 1494 or 1536 MIKE or 
BOB I NEED TWO OR THREE TIX FOR KEN· NY ROGERS. (ON MAIN FLOOR IF BEAUTIFUL FORD FIESTA 1980 wtlh POSSIBLE) PLEASE CALL JOHN x3175 5500 mtles, call 277-4413 mghts or mor­

ntngs 

Wtll exchange BEER or$ for 1 gradualion ttckel Laura 6816. 11 s spnng!lll Ttme to lhtnk STEREOS ,\,.Name brands at great pnces. Now is the Wanted 2 NO Grad TIX Call and name > lime call Mtke a11 067 
your pnce. Dan 283-4639 

''I["' •, 
~ ,· 
Lacrosse team 
,--·------------------------------------,·
What Are You Doing This Summer? 1 
Consider i Inconsistency plagues Irish 
I By MIKE SULIJVAN 1-0, but it was all downhill for attack. Bill Bonde contributed Sports Writer the rest of the half as Ohio
"The Boston Experience" ! two goals, while Joe Han, State scored 10 unanswered Mike Quinn, Justin Shay,
.line 13-.llly4 ! The Irish lacrosse team has goals. Steve Pearsall and Kevin Smith returned from a three-day, "Everybody played poorly in each added one. Rob Simpson
Ministry, communi1y, prayer I three-game road trip through was tough in the goal with 18
the first half,'' said Irish Coach Ohio with mixed results after Rich O'Leary, e~laining his saves.
Deadline: May 1 ! 
splitting games against Ohio team's collapse. 'We tried to The Kenyon game on Satur­Contact: Jm David esc 239-7735 I State and Kenyon Colle~e. put in substitutes and they day was similar to the Ohio In both games, the IriSh fell played poorly, too. We had State game, except that the~~-------·-------------~---------------~ behind early and attempted to uouble even completing a Irish did not need as much 
time to get unuacked.

:-~--------------~-~~~~-~------~ come back. While they were pass."
able to overcome Kenyon and The second half was another Once again, the Irish scored 
I ml}tiKntgltta oftlyt <ttastlt l 
run away with a 17-8 victory, story, though, as the Irish first but feU behind as Kenyon1··:_.. ·:.: FortheTotalLookonaStvledl they could not catch Ohio played two suong quaners, reeled off three suaight goals. 
State, dropping a 14-10 deci­outscoring the Buckeyes 9-4. The Kenyon lead did not last·
f · HairCut, Shampoo, Blow Dry I sion. However, the good effort was long. The Irish outscored the 1 & Condition · . 1 The loss to the Buckeyes last in vain as the nine-goal half­host team 16-5 over the rest of Thursday followed form with time margin proved too large ~e game en route to an easy
J REGULAR $15.00 I most of the other losses suf­to overcome. WID. fered by the Irish. The team Steve llnehan tossed in uwe played very aggressive­
I·~m.wm...,_~ NOW $10.00 I ly and were much more phys­
jumped on top early to lead three goals to lead the Irish

1Taua.._m.~T.a.JM:ll complete (with coupon) I ll7l-0312•177-1691 weareonlyminutesfromcampus' I 
·-------------------~-~---------~ 
lsi Prize: Six-Day Caribbean Cruise 2nd Prize: Marriott Gel-Away Weekend for Two Jrd Prize: for Two at Tippecanoe Place Restaurant Honorable Mentions: One-\'ear to TodaJ• 
·r Ullllll PltllllS ~resents AIAifiiiiiSBUFf ~ro~uchon 
Slll llllll ·CiliA IAIIU IN "IAMIY PAIIY" ~~~~~~•1 IAllliiN IIINlAN ul .lltiAII IIIIAIIn ium · mrector of rnoto~ra~h1 Alllllllllfl · Music h1lll SUIT hecut1ve rro~ucer IHVIlll IDtlll . Wnllen by IINIY IISIIIIII &llVIIlAYlll 
Totlu1 ''proud hl annuu1Kc ''' 11r-.1

rro~uCBrl ~ IAiliiiUSIIIFF · Oirecten h1 SliMlY PBfilll 
pho1u11raph\ ~·ornpetLttun, open tu all \IJ..:'hmna ..:amcra l:lul h • ~ul:mlll up 1~1 tour nl ~our tJc,t ""urL' lor a ~:han..:-.-to v.m a <anhhcan ..:nu'-'.'. ,I!CI-.av.a) v.cckciuJ lnr tv.u .u ~•uth lknJ', lll'l.l. \larnull Htltd, ur a 4ULctthnncr lor 111-n Jl T!pJX'..:atl\11.' "c'll J'ltlnl ""ummttcnlrlt..,uluur June '"uc, .md ""c'n•...:hcJuliUI!! a 'hov. mthc: An Center Gill Shop m June.
PG Mllllt GWDAMa SUGGUI£00 ~ 
The JUd,l!c\ .m: lfHIIll ·, rh•JIOtttaphcr, <•at\ !\.l1lh: Llcan PlHh:r, dUl'O:hlr 11lthc ..,Jlllt' \Ju,cum ol \n .sl ~'Hltrl.' l>aml.": and Ja.. l. t\ap-.a, phllW~ranh) m~trUt'Wr at the South lknJ -\rt ( cnh:r 
SO.MATf~lll.M.«NOTHSUITAil£fOICN!lllll£11 .. 
Tn 1-.nfn:.~:--:---:--:--:---:--:---:--:---:--:--­
(11112COLUiroiiJ1"-PlCTUAESINOUSTl'ltES IHC ~~ 
Lt CJuh II\ IUhla..l. .tlll.l.,.,hUl'\lk""'k."' "''II 1:')( l•>lhtl.k:tl-..1 I Ill." I t fhh.oOIII<"'i ,.,kowJI.,(IIIrk•w•"" 1•~/cJ• /H II" hhtnol.t~I,JII\o.'H 11111\1 tll:liiUUntL'tJ Ull lll11.1rJ .itld maltL'tJIIIIIII 2 "IJth,lllU\ -1 1 ldlllll,.., lit~ tUo.lil''' ~II.J 111<:11 1~111111•• :I I 1"1"-.Jo'<" !lolllll•lll.k .Ill 
h.>.:::_:•<::_::tllh::.O.:c ":__'

;r~:h~lfl;~:::::~· :~7~,~~kL;I:' ~~r'l•'::::"thO:::' plk::::_::ttu:.___:_'.l1•:_'".:__1'"":_" '"'_~~~~~...,•1"'" ;E:·~:~~·J~~~:~.::.~~:·: {:~~~~:.:: 
~~.''\~:~~~~h<.~"~,r~~~~:~·=lc1~~:,~:~, '·""~ -----~-~-~' ;;::• ,;~·;~~~~~~~~~ ·,~;;~;',~;..~,';· ~~~; 
f'UI.Ihlc Ill /rlfltll /11 \IHIIIullu rut)'""' f'lt"l "' ''"""'' -1 J JlllflL"' lUll ho,• .&o:,L'f'IL'll UII!IJ \J.Jr,.-<I l'llo~<I~I.JI'III:r• ~1\1 /•~ltl• /11 
·\pnl 2,\ -...•nd tw T11do~ In ''"~'"""l'tlllllt• n~lu•t .. rul!\1"'""' 
\.f~t:hwnu ,!1!11'.1 \h,h.llol.l~.l ··\IC,. lll< ~---~ .,1,111 ____ /II'--IIIII~ \'liiiW• I> I I 111111"' f'll•l!ll.ii~<.J 
..,.,uth &'111.1 ltk.l .u.t.l ~ '> 1 t'tkllu .tl!•"l \rrrl !I ·"''""' he "'"'~"''.J
Opens Everywhere 
~~~r~r\:1 C~:~~~--~" .~-~~~::~:~~~-:;,·:: ~ •'IIIII> l'lh% -:~~~!I:IIIJ:::··~;~;I:I:~::I011~~~:;1~1::~\~~~~~k 
tnncanJ,Jatclt>r f'l•~IIJliiLihcJuno.• tuw .. ti'I"""~'.Jf'h__ _ ·~ 1 \lt.!II.Jn.t ",t.,-, 111,-.J '""'' _.,'J 
1•-.tk: 111111!,.., lltll IUI.'I:IUI!IIho.~ J~' lo"<l'h IILII.rrr l.tl'•'fl<.". \l.i,.ll.IJI Ljlltrt.'IIIL'flh t.ltll\oll til: ,un•k.l.."''l.'d )1111\ I ,-..·Iii< _ tIt,·,~ l'••llt'l ,.n,J lo.""'U•~•' •"UIUI\'' ill lnJ I ,,,.,lllt.llktlll'll.ollllll"''"''"•h 
June4 


ical," explained O'Leary. "We were really hitting them hard.'' 
Bonde led the team with five goals and two assists. Unehan also helped out, scoring three times and assisting on five other scores. Dan Pace, Pearsall and J eery Levesque chipped in two apiece. Simpson again stopped 18 shots. 
O'Leary singled out the fine play_ of the second line of midfielders comprised of Mike Farino, Mike Quinn and Kevin Smith. 
The team does not have much time to rest, however. Perennial midwest lacrosse power Dennison visits today. 
''Ifwe play four quaners like we played the last two against Ohio State," said O'Leary, ''we may be: able to beat them. We still lack consistency, though.'' 
The Irish now hold a 6-4 record overall. They are 4-2 in the Midwest Lacrosse Associa­tion and are tied for the lead in their division with a 2-1 mark. 
STICK CHECKS --Senior co-captain Mike Lynch was injured in the Ohio State game and missed the victory over Kenyon.His playing status for Dennison is uncertain. . . The defensive corps got a shot in the arm this week when Rick Wicke} rejoined the team. A member of last year's squad, Wicke} was injured in the off-season and told by doctors that he would miss the entire season. However, he has been given the OK by his doctor to finish the season. 
Hornung hospitalized in New York 
NEW YORK (.A.P) --. Paul Hornung, former Heisman Trophy winnc;r from Noue Dame and later a star with the NFL Green Bay Packers, was in stable condinon last night at Bellevue Medical Center after becomin~ ill earlier in the day while vistting New York. 
Stephen Matuca, a hospital spokesman, said Hornung, 46, was admitted about noon as an emergency case. He said Hor· nung requested that nothing about his ailment be released until today, but Matura added that Hornung was in good spirits after under~oing a series of tests and diagnostic procedures. 
An AU-America halfback at Noue Dame and winner of the Heisman Trophy as the top collegiate football player in the nation in 1956, Hornung played for 10 seasons in the National Football League with the Packers. 
~~r.====================================== 
~~cjl~~~~========================W==ffiD==es=da=y=,A=p=ru=·=21=,=1=98=2=-=pa=ge=l=l 
Molarity 
L-OOK, HAYBf. LJE'fr£ OlJ!>'I 
::rtJI'iP/N6r TO 
Cl»Jc.LU!JIDN5, MAYBE 711eR£ IS ND KILL£"(f 

Michael Molinelli 
Campus 
/tU.IJ>EAJT5 Aatp~NTS? H/Tti-1 WN4 FRDH11/£ CEIUNq OF 1/16 T?DOH I.JifH -4 TEL 6PHO!Jf CtJRD ... ,A,LPHIE PUSHED 1/JTl>ACU/SIAJART ANP 4RDUNI>UP ~NI? YOU {A,L/.. THEH .JlJ.ST 

12:15. Lecture· "Bumblebee Foraging 
ACL.IPENT5 f' ,...----...... 

Energetics," Dr. Bernd Heinrich, Univ. 
O.f!, BJZA 

of Vermont, Galvin Life Sciences Audit­
.. 
orium, sponsored by Biology Depart· ment 

:j 
I 
-I 
,l 
..,.. 
·-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
I 
Wednesday, April 21, 1982 -page 12 
~~orts

I 
I
,, 
I 
I Field narrow-ed to Sweet Sixteen I 
By WilL HARE scored six points and grabbed closest game yet, but was not
I 
Sports Writer eight rebounds to lead a bal­seriously challenged by
I 
anced attack for ''TWL, '' as "Double Decker Oreo." Joe
I 
Greg Russell may have they downed ''Thomas Orie, Bob Michael and Mark
I 
played with cracked ribs in Aquinas and ..." by eight. It Cassella each scored five for 
yesterday's Bookstore Bas~et-also marks the second straight the victors, who outrebounded I' .,.. ball Tournament game agamst Sweet Sixteen appearance for their opponents, 30-15. Today I former Sweet Sixteen partic­''TWL,'' which held Aquinas their board domination will be 
ipant "N.E.B.O.'s III." But it starJohn Klebba to just 4-of-12 contested by Bob Crable and
I 
I was his 12 -of-2 5 shoqting in a frustrating day for the the "Assassins," who beat that led "Brick Throwers" to a losers. "Nutmeggers" by five. 
I 
seven-point victory. Nine points by Mark Spitler Mansel Carter played his
I 
propelled "SHysters" to a best game of the tournamentI six-point win over stubborn as he scored seven points and ~ BOOKSTORE XI "Beecher Meat and Liquor." hauled down fifteen rebounds The team of law students now in leading "TPS Again" to a must meet "Milwaukee," who nine-point win over ''Wildcats 
"N.E.B.O.'s" stayed in the beat "Quintin Dailey and Four. II." Today the runners-up of contest in the early going 

.. " by eight. "Milwaukee" last year's tourney meet behind Pete Berg's inside play "T.B. II" en
beat Express "Ryan's Hopes."
and Glenn Packard's play­route to the Sweet Sixteen. Two of the most impressivemaking ability. Then midway 

It will be Mike Mitchell vs. teams from yesterday's action through the flrst half, "Brick Bob Keenehan in a game this must do battle with each other Throwers" caught fire and 
afternoon. Mitchell and team­today. "Big Organ...," who eventually pullea away to a mate Mike Spath tallied six routed "R. Cranium" by 11,
15-10 lead, as Scott Hobar points apiece to lead "Take plays "Full House," who held • bottled up the offensive game This Ball. .." to a nine-point their opponent to a miserable of the 6-7 Berg. 

triumph over ''Twinkie and the 17 percent from the field. 
"We figured they were Creamers." John Verfurth of Notre Dame basketball walk­pretty good because they were "Twinkie. . . " suffered a on Marc Kelly leads ''Eddie m the final 16 last year," said possible concussion after hit­O'Rourke and. . . '' into the 

Russell. ''But we put our ting his head on the ground Sweet Sixteen after yesterday's 

defensive specialist, Frank after a ball Sectional victory
loose scramble, Final over Barich, on Glenn (Packard) the forcing the team to play with "SNAG." Buster Lopes scored whole game and he did a good only four players in the second eight and Kelly chipped in with job." 
half. six for the winners. 
Today, though, ''Brick 

"Take This Ball..." now Today, "O'Rourke" meets Throwers" has the unenviable meets "Cooz, " a 21-18 victor "M.C.O.B." Pat Beshel con­task of meeting ''Even Less over upstart "Haywood Jab­tinued a phenomenal tour­J acksonless Five." Yesterday lomi Now.'' Bob Keenehan and nament with a nine-point, 12­the "Five" destroyed hi~hly Steve Saturno each scored six rebound performance in a 
regarded "Red Rummers' by points for the winners. seven-point win over ''Fingers a score of 21-11. Tony Ander­"A Touch of Class" had its in Socket.'' 

son was the key figure once again in the victory. Anderson ,. poured in 7 -of-8 shots and Doug Bontrager contributed perhaps his best game with a 
Familiar faces grace receiving corps 
6-of-9 outing. Other tough match-up,s today include "US" a~ainst' Tequila By BOB CASTElLO confident that finding an open is Mike Favorite, a 6-4, 195· option routes to try and getWhite Lightmng II" and Sports Writer man should not present a pound junior. The Park Forest him open."
"Shysters" versus "Mil­problem for Irish signal-callers. South, Ill., native played only Sophomores Mark Bavaro
waukee.'' Several familiar faces will be "We're going to spread de­sparingly last season but has (6-4, 240, Danvers, Mass.) and
Despite a 14-point perfor­among Notre Dame's corps of fenses out by sending out come on strong this spring. Brian Behmer (6-6, 205,mance by Notre Dame basket­receivers next fall. However, a several receivers and also util­"He's able to beat coverage, 
Brecksville, Ohio) are pencilledball walk-on Gary Grassey, number of these will be playing izing the backs," said the and he's getting open," says in as backups at tight end.
"US" won a hard-fought vic­at positions that are relatively 36-year-old Hudson, who was Hudson. "He's got good Behmer is new at the positiontory over Macri's Monkey unfamiliar to them. the offensive backfield coach at hands. He ~·ust has to spend a after playing split end hisMe," 27-25. Casey Newell Irish Coach Ron Hudson, UCLA for the past three sea­lot of time earning the system freshman year. "Brian ismade 11 of his 20 attempts to himself a newcomer, has been sons. "There are three level~ and the quarterbacks.'~ 
coming along fine," says Hud­lead "US" to their second pleased thus far with the in the defense ·· deep, middle Behind Favorite is junior son. "He has to get bigger and straight Sweet Sixteen entry. progress of the players that and short, and we want to Bumper Schiro. The 6-0, 180­
stronger. After he puts aboutFor "Tequila White Light­have been moved. Hudson, attack all three of these pounder from Houston, Texas, 30 pounds on he'll be a solid
ning II," things were surpris-who has taken over the levels." saw action cornerback
at tight end."
• ingly easier. Tom Connally quarterbacks and receivers, is Heading the list of split ends during the '81 season but Speedster Joe Howard isHudson feels he is doing well number one at the flanker spot, 
-·===================== 
in making the transition to 
a wide-out version of theLooking for 20wins offense. "Bumper lacks exper­wingback position with which
ience at receiver, but he does 
Notre Dame experimented lasthave a small advantage in that season. Howard, a 5·9, 165­he was a defensive back so he 
pounder from Clinton, Md.,
Baseball team comes home 
has good hands.'' 

provided plenty of excitementJunior Mike Viracola (5-11, for Irish fans during his fresh­By ED KONRADY four-for-seven, with two RBI's Dobosh took the loss in the 178, Dallas, Texas) and soph­man campaign, averaging 27.2 
Sports Wn'ter for the day. second game, 8-4. omore Mike Richerson ( 6-2, yards per catch on 17 recep­
Notre Dame traveled to Mter St. Joseph's today, the 185, Kirksville, Mo.) are also 
tions.
The Irish are coming home Bethel College last Thursday,. Irish face Dayton Saturday and seeing time this spring at the to stay. Notre Dame's baseball splitting a doubleheader. The Detroit Sunday. split end position. Viracola is ''Joe has tremendous ath­team, with a record of 14-11, Irish took the first game behind getting a shot at receiver after letic ability," says Hudson. will close out their season at Bill Matre, 1-0, but dropped IRISH ITEMS ·· Szajko leads being a punter for two years. "We have to get htm open and 
home. the nightcap, 3-1, with Greg get him the ball. They've never
the Irish in three offensive At ti~ht end, junior Tony had a quick game here before, Head Coach Larry Gallo's Juan taking the loss. categories, batting average Hunter ts preparing for his first 
team is on a hot streak, having Saturday the Irish swept (.370), walks (20) and fewest full season at th~ position. and with Joe, we'll have one." won 12 of their last 17. They DePauw, 13-4 and 7-3. Dingle strikeouts (3) for those batting · Mter starting at split end for Behind Howard, the Irish will play a doubleheader and Rick Chryst homered for over 20 times... Co-captain two years, Hunter (6-5,225) will have senior Chris Stone. A against St. Joseph's College the Irish, with Bryan Smith and Henry Valenzuela leads the began the '81 campaign at native of Seattle, Wash., the today, starting at 1 p.m. at M~k Clementz notching vic­team with four home runs... wingback, starting tive games 6-1, 185-pounder has seen lim­Jake Kline Field. tones. Conlin tops the pitchers with a there. He opened the USC ited action thus far in his Irish This past week began well Last Sunday, Indiana State 1. 50 ERA, wah Clementz game back at split end before career. "Chris is inexperienced 
for the Irish as they took two University took two second with 1. 57. . . Clementz starting the last five games at in certain areas, but he con­from Wisconsin, 4-1 and 10-3. close games from the Irish, 7-6 leads the staff with a 3-0 tight end. The Moeller High tinues to improve,'' saysSteve Whitmyer won the and 3-2. Whitmyer and Tom record, and Bryan Smith has a School graduate has caught 78 Hudson. 
opener, giving up seven hits Conlin took the losses, the first 
4-1 ledger... Notre Dame's passes for 1390 yards during Also expected to help out isand striking out four. Co­time Notre Dame had lost two pitching staff has remained his first three years and should sophomore Van Pearcy (6-2,captain Chuck Tasch knocked games in a row since spring errorless throughout the be a tremendous asset to the 185, Andrews, Texas). How­
in three runs. 

break. season. . . The Irish are six Irish from the tight end spot. ever, he is currently competing 
In the nightcap, Bill Stonikas The Irish split a double­games from the coveted 20-win "Tony's a great prospect," for the Notre Dame track team.
pitched a six-hitter to earn the header against Ball State to mark; Gallo would be the first says Hudson. "He just has to "Van's tossing the baton right victory. Phil Dingle had three end their road games. Matre baseball mentor to notch three get tougher and more physical. now, so we don't really know
RBI's, while Dan Szajko went won the opener, 6-2, but Joe 20-win seasons in a row. We'll be giving him a lot of about him," says Hudson. 



